124-90140-10012|

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/21/201

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90140-10012
. RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 100-439769-302
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: BRENNAN
TITLE:
DATE: — 09/03/1963
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
PERMANENT STUDENT COMMITTEE FOR TRAVEL TO
CUBA
DOCUMENT TYPE: ~ PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS; = MEMO.

v9.
HW 50953 Docld:32338055

Page 1


om me

ti t UNITED STATES cl a Tr
i Memoran./~.:

ee D. J paanuyi, pati:

Tolson
Belmont
Mohr
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
D

7 Sullivan

ALL T

Trotter

FROM : S, J, PAPICH Tele’ Reon
vi Holmes
SUBJECT: PERMANENT” STUDENT COMMITTEE 5 > i .
1p, FOR TRAVELT0..CUBA a y
Hey IEC oF
Austin Horn, Central Intelligence’ Agency (CIA), advised |
the Liaison Agent on Augist 30, 1963, thay, i ource ;
in Madrid, Spain, had been in contact with e of ;
the American students who accompanied the group” whic! mtly (
visi gyrnis contact took place on August 27, 1963, at which
time ‘olunteered the following information to the CIA a

s enti fied the following students Bopykannan a ‘

\, jtravelers": Elena B.jFleming, JohnjMilton, DopyRanmann, and

| Albert: alaiee tan th
_ oe Sympathiger:

| aa eferred to Levi#Yaub as a "c nist fh ideology" .
but not a ber, He stated that Phillp At¥ruce Is "a person

of Marxist-Leninist tendencies"; that Michae ‘own is a Trotskyite; |
that John omas is_a decided partisan of the policy of Mao Tse }
Tung; that Eric D.\dohnston is, "of communist, ideology though not a
Party member’ that Clinton NXTenks is "the/son of the number three
ranking communist in ifornia"; and that Ahe only student in u

group who is actually/a member of the Party is All PA ee 4) i
1 kB POLE,

-. The above information is being*dyrected to the attention |
of thé Internal Security and Nationalities Intelligence Sections. :
Hath y SUGk SLD )KSiL H

Ne 252, ; : ;
Mr. Baumgardner JFK) . :
Mr, Wannall D \
Mr, Simpson

Liaison p
Mr. Papicn 27 /

2 "ORE

ie Ny WHC
ngs OBJECTION TO ~“ZFB a
DECLAGSINCATION AND/OR,

oa RELEASE CF CIA INFORMATION. :

t ,$ IN THIS DOCUMENT, excep Fo
eo KP 3-14-48

&

HW 50953 DocId:32338055 Page 2

fe z > seumeneniine nities!
