124-10158-10052|

JFK Assassination System Date: © 11/18/20
Identification Form :

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10158-10052
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —105-82555-1ST NR 3214
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG, PA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 04/01/1964
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
LHO, ARTICLE, OPINION, BUCHANAN, THOMAS GITTINGS
JR.
. DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 12/10/1997
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

Vly
NW 52333 Docld:32165527 Page 1


ra oes
e

(OPMOMAL FORM WO. 10

‘so1o-104~01

«> “UNITED STATES C. ERNMENT

- Memorandum

to} Birector, FBI SECRET DATE: hal—64

HOM: Megat, Parts (100-1793) (P.) CLASSIFIED BY Sekt sso
14, /q9 50-2
—-SUBIECT: PROMAS STTYINGS BUCHAAN, JR. ere i
z 100~

“YOR,

ead

RT Pot D1 ther,

Cx
OW gg

Paris 62-148 PLOW CONTAINED
eo papers if

WBACEE BHERE SHUHG
Re Paris letter 3-20-64. onagmris:

r
F
{i

There is enslosed fer the Bureau a copy of the
latest article in the series by THOMAS SiTr igs BOCHAMAR, JR., *
whieh appeared in "L' Express" on 326-64) C: re ted

Ia this article BUCHANAN discusses the people
"im power® im Ballas aad states that they used gaagsters
as "freat men" in assisting and protesting OSWALD in that
eity. Without their concurrence, according to BUCHANAN,
OSWALD would never have been able to have obtained employment
in Ballas. SUCHANAN describes the members of the Ballas
Council as being the wealthy and influential people behind
the scenes in that community and states that seven members
ef the Council represeat the “eream" ef the influential
@itizens ef Ballas. In the latter greup he mentions H. L.
Huwt, his son hAMAR HUNT, as well as CLINTON and JOHN MURCHISON.
ThereaZter, BUCHANAN discusses the background and business 7
dealings ef NUNT-as well as his relations with General EDWIN se
WALEER and the John Birch Society. BUCHANAN alse goes into eae

( )
1 = Bitiners, 100-22596 eS B2SSS —
CR NRERT Mj ele
Rap :D
(20) ; |
15)
5 OAPR2% yore”! SECRET Ist WR. 32/¢

HW 52333 Docld:32165527 Page 2



Paris 100-1793

: 3-24-64
haaviss that his office had received information that »
But NAN reportedly is presently employed .on an installatio
of Bull office machines being used by the Prefecture of
Police in Paris. This information has been furnished to the
Prefecture of Police, and while their inquiry is continuing,
preliminary results would indicate that the report is untrue.
In this connection, a copy of the memorandum captioned
THOMAS GITTINGS BUCHANAN, JR. which sets forth background
information concerning him appearing in Bufiles, and which
was transmitted to the Paris Office by Bulet to Baltimore
3-19-64, was made available to the Prefecture of Police.
It appears that the information contained in the memorandum
would be of interest to the Ambassador, RALPH SMITH of the
local office of U.S.1.S.,4the Direction de la Surveillance
a rritoir: f 2 lomestic counterespionage/service,
We are, therefore furnishing
copies of that memorandum to then.

As mentioned previously, we will continue, ‘to

follow this matter closely and promptly transmit to ‘the
Bureau any pertinent information of interest.

7

.

HW 52333 Docld:32165527 Page 3

