124-10217-10074)

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

(26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10217-10074
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 105-75663-36
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI :
FROM: STAFFORD, LEMAN L. JR.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 08/11/1959
PAGES : 7
SUBJECTS :
LEH, DESCR, PRISONER, CUBA, REVOLUTIONARY ACT,
NICARAGUA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 07/01/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS :

vol

HW 50953 DocId:32296298 Page 1


suy

(ww? 97-261
¥

2) Will veeify subject's arrival and presence
at Washington, BD, C., through U. S, INS records in that
city.

3)

though appropriate sources in that
city, follow &

veport activities of subject.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Cop
Chicago, Denver,
San Diego Offi
in those divi:
activities.

chis report are being furnished the
@ Angeles, New York, San Antonio and
in view of investigations being conducted
8 welative to Panamanian revolutionary

SIA has reported previously it had not
been able to at activities of subject as a CIA
informant, subject, on July 22, 1959, informed he had

dinner on the previc yening with| at (S)
a Miami hotel. is a known representative of(6)
CIA working owt of ]the Republic of Panama{(S)

Whit

INFORMANTS
LOCATION OF
IDENTITY ORIGINAL INFORMATION
MM Tel is JOSEPH MEROLA, 2018 N. Bay 97-261-51

Road, Miami Beach, Fla., contacted

by SA LEMAN L. STAFFORD, JR. (by request).
MEROLA is a suspected jewel thief, and

presently under indictment for conspiracy

in connection with the theft of arms from

the Canton, Ohio National Guard Armory, 10/14/58.

-Be

~ COVER PAGE =

nsec

SECRET -

HW'50953 DocId:32296298 Page 2

