# 124-10190-10078_6

## Page 1

124-10190-10078

Metodign..-

Shake

piling

MAILED 21

APR 16 1969

clean.

989341

cilahan

30:=d.

dit

7=99

NoSy

]

G.Y. Abernathy

Sic, beaver

4/16/69

Dizector, FBI (105 78256)

THOMAS RELA

Enclosed is a copy of a lettor dated 4/7/69 audressed

to Mr. lathan B. Lonvin, Chiet,

Foreirn Agents Registration

SOCIOD,

repartnent of rustice, and uriiter over the

signature oi fionhen lischer-calati on the statiorery ot the

University of Colorado.

¡iso enclosed is a copy of the report

ol it inniel J. Griffin dated 8/31/G0-at boston concerning

silbject.

Nathan 3. Lenvie, now deceased, according to Eufiles

intervioved Fischer-Guinti in 1950 in conncotion with & natter

in wiich Ilscher-Calati ma to testify.

The enclosures are

l'ernisted for your assistance in the event any inforration 15

ernight to your attention concerning the nattor in the enclosed

letter.

Zisches Unintl should not be interviewed without

pion Burcan authority; however, in the exent le contacts your

VIIICO, anY

inioration offcred

should be accepted and furnished

to ise

Bureau,

Inclesures 2

WA:crk. This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi

(4)

"nation cutsian your Committee.

Its use is limited to offroal proceedings of

your Commi "e anil the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

LATE:

nel without the express approval of the FBl.

The enclosed letter was furnished by Mr. James L.

eldon, Jr. of the Department.

i copy of the enclosed

Citizen who has spent time in the past in Czechoslovakia and

in Fussia.

There is no information in the enclosed letter which

would indicate that the Bureau should make any inquiries concern-

ing subject. Bufiles contain no information which would

indicate that subject could be involuntarily leaving the U.S.

as indicated in the enclosed letter.

REC 14

11.%

ÄPR2 2 1969

• HALL ROOK S

TELETYPE UNIT

18 APR 1'7 1969

Micr

---

