124-10207-10115
iT
H

. AGENCY :

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/28/201

Ageney Information

FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10207-10115
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 62-9-29-713
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: EVANS, C. A.
TO: BELMONT
TITLE:
: DATE: — 08/30/1963
i PAGES: 2
i SUBJECTS :
' CIP, SIGELBAUM, BENJAMIN BERTRAM, B/F INT,
i GAMBLING
| DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
! CLASSIFICATION: Secret
1 RESTRICTIONS : Consulted; 1A
{ CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
| DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 09/30/1998
\ OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, TRS
COMMENTS: - REFERRED TO TRS

v9.4

Al

HW 50953 DocId:32291339 Page 1


Memorandiimy _ SS

: h., : Mr. Belmoy CREF August 30, 1963" cc |

AT hose
$-29-4f oo.

FROM : Cc. A. .Evans a

CLASSIFIED BY 5G

OQ DECLASSIFY ON: 25,

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM JF:
MIAMI “DIVISION -
——

Information was set forth in memorandum dated August 22,

, 1963, that Benjamin Bertram Sigelbaum, who is prominent in the transfer
‘ tand distribution of skimmed funds from the Las Vegas gambling’casinos,
L | considered the Swiss banking business to be very lucrative. He |

‘stated that the banks lend money to African countries at'12 to 15
_iper cent -.. interest and they receive government bonds of these

_ countries, which, if defaulted, are apparently underwritten by the
"U.S. .Government, The Director has asked "Just how does this: work?"

: ef :

he; Legal Attache, Bern, has advised that John P. ‘Dimmer, (S)
Chief 6f£. Station, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA); Bern, ‘stated
that- he“has io knowledge of such transactions being made! by Swiss
banks and thought Sigelbaum's allegations sounded extremely doubtful.
Charles W. .Bass, Economics Section, U.‘S..Embassy, Bern advised he
} has nevér heard of such loans being made by Swiss banksixs He pointed
out. thatZif -the U. S. would underwrite against default 4 loan to é
an African country, thenthe’ African country could easily borrow Pe
money in Switzerland at five or six per cent interest instead of RS
to 15 peF cén Bass regarded U.S. underwriting of African bond& =
to be unlikely. E 7 Ss

MEFS

ie Gp

iA
Cs

IN

oy

NT.

wie ¢ sem

fee eae &
As set forth in memorandum dated August 27, 1963, in Bat

a

CUE

matter, John Grosvenor, Chief Counsel,’ Bureau of Public Debt;°U. 1S us
Treasury Department, advised there is no blanket underwriting 0; yD ty St
foreign government bonds by the U. S. -Government, although cy Ba
particular projects in foreign countries may be underwritten eaugel,
on an individual basis through some U. -S. Government agency: rat Beey
ey ete zy.

oftigials of the Agency for International Develdpment (AID)
have advised that this agency has limited authority to underwrite
projects: forreconomic, di Lopmént?of foreign countries. They stated

that they had not used®this authority to underwrite any bond issues
q a

of African countries. REC: 54 am bln 2 Fo 2S

bps e1Waom! bre an #8 jwere furnished’ by Highly, confidential
sige! {s comiients jwere furnished by ea
5 £63 Gantiis Suite

« 3: His statements ‘on bd
DR CoNBEen@ 136 B yf
A riED dpi ii q

sources and no.details or basis fo:
{
1

Dai RRRERED AY AU TAGE TOA,
ACTION 9) 4.4u.97) Vp
: BASE UF Pg_[informat ion =
rd dy EIN (PART.
_ 68S a OE

1 TOTAL “DENIAL

t

HW 50953 DocId:32291339 Page 2
