# 124-10277-10439

## Page 1

124-10277-10439

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10277-10439

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-130

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/20/1964

• PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, CUBAN, LOPEZ, LUIS DIAZ, AIRCRAFT, MISSING

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NY 50953

12

DooId: 32301104

Page

1

---

## Page 2

USC

REVIEWED BY FEWIFK TASK FOX

ON

7-23-90 dal

RELSASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PABTA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

FRE LASERE DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXAPT

FBI MIAMI

mKh 2-6-98 BRACIUTS

below

101

PM

EST

URGENT

6-20-64

FEDERAL SUREAU DE INVESTLCADON

DEPARTEN OF LOILE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUN 2 0 1964

117%

TELE TYPE

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr-

Mr. Casper

SECRET

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Hyans.

MrS Gale

ALT TITOSH TOR COUS' INED

Vr.

HEFEAT IS WOLESOTT LED EXCEPT

Mr Pen a t

Mr. Tayel a

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Mr. Trotten

Tele. Room

PFC

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy.

TO

DIRECTOR /97-44741

FROM MIAMI 105-2855

4-P

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

PAREN MIRR END PAREN®

ENTER DASS ECUATE - NEÜTRALITY MATTER

TELETYPE

I5 DASH CUBA, AM

2/2796

RE MIAMI FEL

Gas he damne CAT.

• JUNE TWENTY NINETEEN SIXTYPOUR.

U.S. BORDER PATROL, MIAMI, ADVISED JUNE VENTY NINETEEN

PADR

SIXTYFOUR, THAT A CESSNA TWO ZERO FÍVE AIRCRAFT WAS RENTED

FROM AMERICÁN AVIATION, TAMIAMI AIRPORI, MIAMI ON JUNE SEVENTEEN

• 31V0

za Cuba

NINETEEN SIXTYFOUR BY LUISXRIAZ LOPEZ WHO HAS STUDENT PILOT

S N33

YOUNI 17V

LICENSE S NINÉTONE TWO SIX FOUR FIVE, PLANE BEARS NUMBER N

EIGHT THREE SIX FIVE Z.

AMERICAN AVIATION RECEIVED LONG DISTANCE CALL FIVE

THIRTY PM JUNE SEVENTEEN NINETEEN SIXTYFOUR FROM DIAZ AT

OBSISSY

WHICH TIME HE SAID HE WOULD RETURN T

97-449977-

LANE ON JUNE NINETEN"

NINETEEN SIXTYFOUR..

8 JUL 1 1964

USBP CHECKED AT WEST PALM BEACH AIRPORT-AND ASCERIATNED

IT LANDED THERE AT EIGHT THIRTY PM JUNO SEVENTEEN NINETEEN

SIXTYFOUR• PLANEDREMAINED THERE UNTIL

SEVEN. THIRTY AM JUNE

2-18-98

NINETEEN NINETEEN SIXTYFOUR, STRY-SON AREgF.PPF

ONE HUNDRED

CLASSIFIED BY 5668

ECLASSIFY ON: 25X]/

OCTALL GASOLINE PLACED IN ONE TANKIN THE. OTHER TANK WAS FULL.

END PAGE ONE

It (j9) Lee Perisan, DIA

19692 test am. 7130 - eat got gunlad

SECRET

6/21/64 - 8m Fit geare

HW 50953 DooId:32301104 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

PAGE TWO

US CUSTOMS, MIAMI, HAS ADVISED THAT AIRCRAFT IS

SINGLE ENGINE, WHITE IN COLOR, WITH RED TRIM. THEIR

INVESTIGATION DISCLOSES THAT DIAZ DEPARTED FROM MIAMI ALONE

IN AIRCRAFT, AND ALSO WAS ALONE WHEN HE DEPARTED FROM WEST PALM

BEACH AIRPORT. DIAZ FILED NO FLIGHT PLAN.

Cult 70N

T-/

ON JUNE TWENTY NINETEEN SIXTYFOUR, EVELIO ALPIZAR

XEREZ PAREN PROTECT IDENTITY BY REQUEST END PAREN, A CUBAN

PILOI IN EXILE, WHO HAS PREVIOUSLY FURNISHED RELIABLE

INFORMATION IN CONNECTION WITH ACTIVITIES OF THE MARR AND

SOME PERSONALITIES INCLUDING ITS LEADER, ORLAND ROSCH, TURNISHED

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION COLON

ON EVENING JUNE NINETEE(/ NINETEEN SIXTYFOUR AT

APPROXIMATELY ELEVEN THIRTY PM, ALPIZAR, AFTER LEARNING OF ALLEGED

AIRPLANE RAID, TELEPHÓNED LARED RODRIGUEZ, IREASURER

DE THE MIRR• RODRIGUEZ APPEARED RELUCTANT TO TALK OVER TELEPHONE,:

T -1

HOWEVER, IN DOUBLE TALK CONVERSATION ALPIZAR LEARNED FROM

RODRIGUEZ THAT THE PLANE ALLEGEDLY SHOT DOWN OVER CUBA HAD

BEEN ENGAGED IN ACTIVITIES OF THE MIRR AT THE TIME, AND THAU

THE PILOT WAS CUBAN, RODRIGUEZ WOULD GIVE NO ADDITIONAL DETAILS

T- I

TO ALPIZAR.

END PAGE TWO

SECRET

HW 50953 DooId:32301104 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

PAGE THREE

ALPIZAR ALSO ADVISED HE HAD LEARNED FROM FELIXIGANCHEZ,

AN AIRCRAFT PILÒT INSTRUCTIOR AT MIAMI, THAT ON JUNE

TWENTY NINETEEN SIXTYROUR, 'SERVELLO GUTIERREZ Y/SONCEPCION,

ends, 76k

AKA QUOTE MIMO END QUOTE A DEMOLITION EXPERT AND MEMBER OF

MIRR, HAD ATTEMPTED TO UTILIZE SERVICES OF SANCHEZ AS-PILOT

AND RENT AN AIRCRAFT JUNE IWENTY NINETEEN SIXTYFOUR FOR

PURPOSES OF QUOTE RECONNAISANCE END QUOTE. SANCHEZ HAD PREVIOUS

PLANS AND THEREFORE DECLINED. GUTIERREZ ALSO ATTEMPTED TO OBTAIN

PRIVATE TELEPHONE NUMBER OF FEMALE OWNER OF AMERICAN AVIATION

WHICH WAS UNKNOWN TO SANCHEZ.

ALPIZAR SUBSEQUENTLY LEARNED THAT GUTIERREZ HAD ATTEMPTED

Curlic 720

UNSUCCESSFULLY TO CONTACT JOSE HERNANDEZ, A GUBAN PILOT WHO

PREVIOUSLY SERVED IN CUBAN*

AIR FORCE WITH ALPIZAR, AND WHO IS

NOW LIVING IN MIAMI.

ALPIZAR SURMISED THAT GUTIERREZ, BY HIS ACTIONS,

WAS ATTEMPTING TO SET UP FLIGHT TO SEARCH FOR MISSING AIRCRAFT.

ON AFTERNOON JUNE TWENTY NINETEEN SIXTYFOUR, ALPIZAR

CONTACTED WIFE OF LAREDO RODRIGUEZ WHO DENIED MISSING AIRCRAFT

• WAS INVOLVED IN ACTIVITIES OF MIRR.E

END PAGE THREE

-20704

HW 50953

DocId: 32301104 Page

---

## Page 5

Uses

REVIEWED BY FEWJFK TASK FORCE,

ON 7.23.92 cal

• RELEASE IN FULL

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESILGALION

RELEASE IN PART

• DPANIMEURW ON LUE

NOTANPEMIARHA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

COMMUNICATIONS SEMION

SECRET

DEGLASCIFICATION AND/OR,

JUN 2 0 1964

RELEASE UF CIA INFORMATION

FBI

MIAMI

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCOP!

TELETYPE

mkh 2-6-98

bRACKETS bElow

ATT,

AMITATED

HERET"

WHERE SHOWN CIHERWISE.

1010

PM

EST

URGENT

6-20-64 PFC-

Mr. Folson

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr

Mr.

Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

DIRECTOR /97÷4474/

FROM

MIAMI 105-2855

2271€

4-P

Miss

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION. REVOLUCIONARIA

FAKEN MERR END PAREN®

INTER DAS SCURITY - MELITRIALITY MATER

#$ DASH CUBA, -NT,

TELETYPE

RE MIAMI FEE JUNE TWENTY NINETEEN SIXTYFOUR.

U.S. BORDER PATROL, MIAMI, ADVISED JUNE IWENTY NINETEEN

SIXTYFOUR, THAT A CESSNA TWO ZERO FIVE AIRCRAFT WAS RENTED

FROM AMERICAN AVIATION, TAMIAMI AIRPORT, MIAMI ON JUNE SEVENTEEN

NINETEEN SIXTYFOUR BY LUIS DIAZ LOPEZ WHO HAS STUDENT PILOT

LICENSE S NINE ONE TWO SIX FOUR FIVE, PLANE BEARS NUMBER N

EIGHT THREE SIX FIVE 2

AMERICAN AVIATION RECEIVED LONG DISTANCE CALL FIVE

THIRTY PM JUNE SEVENTEEN NINETEEN SIXTYFOUR FROM DIAZ AT

WHICH TIME HE SAID HE WOULD RETURN PLANE ON JUNE NINETEEN

NINETEEN SIXTYFOUR®

31V0

HEREIN IS

ALL INFORMA

BY SPEBIT

LASSIFIED

TION CONTAINED.

USBP CHECKED AT WEST PALM BEACH AIRPORT AND ASCERTAINED

IT LANDED THERE AT EIGHT THIRTY PM JUNO SEVENTEEN NINETEEN

SIXTYFOUR® PLANEDREMAINED THERE UNTIL SEVEN THIRTY AM JUNE

NINETEEN NINETEEN SIXTYFOUR SIXTEEN GALLONS OF ONE HUNDRED

OCTANE GASOLINE PLACED IN ONE TANK•

THE OTHER TANK WAS FULL®

1, END PAGE ONE

Lt (g) Lee Perman; DIA, adored 514 am: 6/21164 - mitteele

ohn f. Kelly, state

9:30 am 611/04.

CJ A

(S)

at 6/21/546.

5668

85-81-6

CLASSIFIED BY

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

JFK

SECRET

HW 50953 DooId:32301104 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Rises is i

PAGE TWO

US CUSTOMS, MIAMI, HAS ADVISED THAT AIRCRAFT IS

SINGLE ENGINE, WHITE IN COLOR, WITH RED TRIM. THEIR

INVESTIGATION DISCLOSES THAT DIAZ DEPARTED FROM MIAMI ALONE

IN AIRCRAFT, AND ALSO WAS ALONE WHEN HE DEPARTED FROM WEST PALM

'BEACH AIRPORT. DIAZ FILED NO FLIGHT PLAN.

ON JUNE

,INENTY NINETEEN SIXTYFOUR, EVELIO ALPIZAR

PEREZ PAREN PROTECT IDENTITY BY REQUEST END PAREN, A CUBAN

PILOT IN EXILE, WHO HAS PREVIOUSLY FURNISHED RELIABLE

INFORMATION IN CONNECTION WITH ACTIVITIES OF THE MIRR AND

SOME PERSONALITIES INCLUDING ITS LEADER, ORLANDO BOSCH, FURNISNED

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION COLON

ON EVENING JUNE NINETEEN NINETEEN SIXTYFOUR AT

APPROXIMATELY ELEVEN THIRTY PM, ALPIZAR, AFTER LEARNING OF ALLEGED

AIRPLANE RAID, TELEPHONED LAREDO RODRIGUEZ, TREASURER

OF THE MIRRO RODRIGUEZ APPEARED RELUCTANT TO TALK OVER TELEPHONE,

• HOWEVER, IN DOUBLE TALK CONVERSATION ALPIZAR LEARNED FROM

RODRIGUEZ THAT THE PLANE ALLEGEDLY SHOT DOWN OVER CUBA HAD

BEEN ENGAGED IN ACTIVITIES OF THE MIRR AT THE TIME, AND THAT

¡THE PILOT WAS CUBAN, RODRIGUEZ WOULD GIVE NO ADDITIONAL DETAILS

TO ALPIZAR

END PAGE TWO

HW 50953 DooId: 32301104 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PAGE THREE

ALPIZAR ALSO ADVISED HE HAD LEARNED FROM FELIX SANCHEZ,

AN AIRCRAFT PILOT INSTRUCTIOR AT MIAMI, THAT ON JUNE

IWENTY NINETEEN SIXTYFOUR, GERVELIO GUTIERREZ Y CONCEPCION,

AKA QUOTE MIMO END QUOTE A DEMOLITION EXPERT AND MEMBER OF

• MIRR, MAD ATTEMPTED TO UTILIZE SERVICES OF SANCHEZ AS PILOT

AND RENT AN AIRCRAFT JUNE TWENTY NINETEEN SIXTYFOUR FOR

PURPOSES OF QUOTE RECONNAISANCE END QUOTE. SANCHEZ HAD PREVIOUS

PLANS AND THEREFORE DECLINED, GUTIERREZ ALSO ATTEMPTED TO OBTAIN

PRIVATE TELEPHONE NUMBER OF FEMALE OWNER OF AMERICAN AVIATION

WHICH WAS UNKNOWN TO SANCHEZ.

ALPIZAR SUBSEQUENTLY LEARNED THAT GUTIERREZ HAD ATTEMPTED

UNSUCCESSFULLY TO CONTACT JOSE HERNANDEZ, A CUBAN PILOT WHO

PREVIOUSLY SERVED IN CUBAN AIR FORCE WITH ALPIZAR, AND WHO IS

NOW LIVING IN MIAMI•

ALPIZAR SURMISED THAT GUTIERREZ, BY HIS ACTIONS,

WAS ATTEMPTING TO SET UP FLIGHT TO SEARCH FOR MISSING AIRCRAFT.

ON AFTERNOON JUNE TWENTY NINETEEN SIXTYFOUR, ALPIZAR

CONTACTED WIFE OF LAREDO RODRIGUEZ WHO DENIED MISSING AIRCRAFT

WAS INVOLVED IN ACTIVITIES OF MIRR-E

END PAGE THREE

HW 50953 DooId:32301104 Page 7

---

