# 124-10299-10021

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2018

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10299-10021

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-68043-238

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM: LEG, LO

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/27/1967

PAGES :

22

SUBJECTS :

CS, ASSOC, LTR, CP, SOVIET UNION, ANTI-COMMUNIST

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1996

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC 4 LTR, NOTE, ENV

v9.1

---

## Page 2

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY

: FBI

RECORD

NUMBER

124-10299-10021

RECORD

SERIES

: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: CR 65-68043-238

May 29, 1998

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of Postponements: 1

The redactions in this document have been postponed under the provisions set forth in The John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992.

In the margin next to each postponement a letter or number is provided to represent the appropriate

substitute language from the list below.

Board Review Completed: 04/13/98

A. Informant Name

B. Informant Identifying Information

C. Informant Symbol Number

D. Informant File Number

E. Operational Detail

F. Identifying Information Postponed to Protect the Privacy of an Individual

G. File Number

H. Classified Case Caption

Z. See the special substitute language on this form

1

---

## Page 3

Date : 09/28/96

Page

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10299-10021

RECORDS SERIES

: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: CR 65-68043-238

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : LEG, LO

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE : 10/27/67

PAGES

SUBJECTS : CS, ASSOC, LTR, CP, SOVIET UNION, ANTI-COMMUNIST

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1C, 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/96

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC 4 LTR, NOTE,

ENV

---

## Page 4

To

•u. BJECT:

MIU-1U/-02

SAYI

- GRA :

UNI

TATE.

_ENMENT

Memorandum

Director, FBI (65-68043)

Legat, London (65-745) (P)

HAROLD ADRIAN RUSSELL PHILBY

ESP - R

SECRET

1

3-15-96

DATE:

10/27/67

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SistER

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

REC-4

134978

773 CAR of

Classifie

(5)

For complete understanding of the enclosures, the

following is noted:

(U)

The BERNARD ANTONmentioned in Mrs. HANDLEY'S

letter is a Russian-born,

naturalized

Briton who in the

1930's edited a Communist Party paper in the Soviet Union.

He is now reportedly anti-Communist and has authored many

fairly successful books which tend toward the sensational.

He is currently writing a book about the British frogman

CRABB, whom he believes to be alive in Russia. (B/u) (A)e

Declass

CLAY SHAW mentioned in HANDLEY's letter is,

cording to her, identical with a VICTOR DE MARIO, a former

QU.S. military officer whom she met in England during

World

War II.

Onna

Concerning the

names set forth in London'g

10/17/67

c letter

4

the following is noted

"Who's Who in Englara! indicates

that VICTORTROTH-

CHILD's full name 15 A%

MEYER VICTOR

OTHSCHILD,

3 - Bureau (Enc. 12)

1 - Liaison (direct) /

BEC 545-68043-93811

1 - London

SECRET

LM : vw

(5)

Buy U.S,

Bonds Regularly In the Payrol Savings Plan

URE ATTACHED"

carcian

---

## Page 5

Lon 65-745

he was born 10/31/10. He attended Trinity College in the

early thirties and was a Fellow at Trinity 1935-39. From

1939 to 1945 he was in Army Intelligence.

The AUGUSTUS

_mentioned in the enclosure, if still alive, would be

in his eighties.

He was considered one of the fore-

most art authorities in the U.K. for many years, and was

head of various art/ galleries.

The BROOMAN-WHITE mentioned

is RICHARD CHARLES BROOMAN-WHITE,:

born 2/16/12. He attended

Trinity College, Cambridge, apparently in the early thirties

as he was engaged in political activities from 1935 to 1938.

From 1939 through 1945 he was in the Intelligence Corps.

Prior to his death some time between the present and 1964

he held such offices as the Lord Commissioner of the Treasury,

It is interesting to note that several of the

above people apparently attended college with subject,

The ass, pe 10d A, med also were in intelligence during)

the same period of time.

SECRET

039377 -2-

---

## Page 6

-

FEDERAL BURRAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONBMENT INPORMATION SHEET (JFK MATERIALS)

17

_Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions) .

[]

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available for disclosure.

All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

[]

Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

[]

Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

If subsection Ic lother matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[]

Subsection 2 (living person who provided

confidential

information)

[] Subsection 3 (unwarranted invasion of privacy)

lu subsection & (cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

[]

Subsection 5

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

[]

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

[]

For your information:

Is the following number is to be used for reference

regarding

this page (these pages):

65-68043-238

enclosure

xxxxxxxxXX

xxxxxxxXxX

xxxxxxXXXX

xxxxxxxxxx

xxxxxxxxxx

xxxxxxxxxx

---

## Page 7

NOTICE OF

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

Zul.

File #

- /1

Serial 238

classification SECRET

Exempt from

GDS, Category 1

Date of Deckeroptanch

Date 1/12/27

---

## Page 8

NOTICE OF

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

classification _SECRET

Exempt from

CDS, Category 1

Reviewed by

---

## Page 9

121438

Classified by

Declassify om

DR 4/2/85

2995/012

---

