124-90092-10006)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90092-10006
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 62-80750-944
Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: KEAY

TO: FLETCHER
TITLE;
DATE: 05/04/1949
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
WILLIAM K. HARVEY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

! CURRENT STATUS: — Redact

DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/15/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1

HW 50953 DocId:32330761 Page 1


COPY PK

TO

FROM

/

Bad
83

Wee
a

: OFFICE MEMORANDUM 7

v D
SUBJECT PANSTABLISIIONT OF OIA ROPRESENTARIVE IN favna) 6). OLR. -8
fd en

ur. 4 Fletcher ©" May hy 1949 pee

ur. V. P. Keay

Reference is made to my memorandum to Mr. Fletcher,
dated May 2, 1949, wherein it was noted that CEA contemplated
assigning former Bureau Agent Samuel Hernah;Hortoi a CIA
representative in{Qttawa, Ca: eferen¢é memoFandum also
included the fact that Horton) ys ‘Specifically recommended so ao

that he could } roperly han nd thereby gain,an entree.»
into tof ee related organizations by using —,! a |
"Stepping-stahe" It was also memtioned that the reayts liaison.

representative to CIA had ascertained that William K Yfarvey, also
a former Bureau Agent, and.now a minor officail of CIA, had advised,
his superiors that lad a "peculiar personality," and ,_ ther
fore, it would take a good liaison man to handle him properly.

The Director noted as follows: "1, What is record of [i Hort
while with us?- 21 fhe-attadhed fetter is unsatisfactory. I dont Lik
its evafiveness. Please rewrite. H."

office, reflecting former Agent (Horton's cord with this Bureau.”
With respect to the Director's secomd tones pif ie attached lettié
been prepared pursuant to. his made ist 2

ACTION: Piet
DECLAS
If approved, it is suggested that the attadhed

forwarded to the Bureau re) OR as NO eee Ee ie

pod erm AND/OR,
Attachment RELEASE GF CIA INEGRMATION

thi Be THIS BOGS ALE: fone ‘e

CDD:hke

Grats By f COs age® Py dics ae 55
Seokuty 2!

‘attached will be found a beled a greed by the Chief Cl

CARB) cS — art 7
- Ores 76 JUN 9 1949 if
/ opt,
Milken teens,

For revi ey at FBIHG by

HSCA re De O/ nae

(See Bufiie # 117290)
‘ose /mae, ahie /rg

HW 50953 Docld:32330761 Page 2
