# 124-10115-10028

## Page 1

124-10115-10028

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD _NUMBER:

124-10115-10028

RECORD SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-3588-28

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

10: LEG. PA

TITLE:

DATE: 10/20/1964

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 62-109090-356

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/24/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/23/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

WH 50953

DocId: 32156336

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

C

(5)

(CAS -2200 *

20 October

195%

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM

SUBJECT

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Mr. Norman Philcox

2R

Legal Attache

FELEAS

K. UMMATION

(CAS PA(S)

IN THIS DOSUA

Epeept Brockets (K 3/10/97)

Crank letter Concerning warren Commission

Document

Our office in Madrid'has sent us a copy of the attached

Spanish-language letter addressed to the American Ambassador

to spain, and signed by one Anubiapers, alleging in the

first paragraph that the archor has

information of interest

to Impart.

After opening the second paragraph by saying that he

had to flee Paris due to an indiscretion committed there, the

author states:

"There (apparently Parls), in the home cr

some American friends, I got hold of an authen-

itio document about une assassination in Dallas,

which they say was swiped from the warren,

Coumission and which is certainly prejudiciai

for President Johnson.

• I have It on good

authority that they are currently trying to sell

at to no less than the Director of "Paris-Match."

Someone from the Embassy of the Uniyed Kingdom

in faris is involved in the matter?

The author closes by suggesting that an advertisement be inserted

In a Madrid newspaper 1f there be any Interest in further details.

There are no traces from Madrid on Antilin PERIS, which

according toles, Madrid

1s almost certainly an ailas.

Needless

to say there 1s no return

address on the letter

or envelope

was mailed from Barceiona on 26/September 1904.

adria bases

forwarded us

appreciate learning the details so that they might inform the

embassy.

It was also suggested that we show you this letter.

(Cas, Paris

has no

traces on Antilin PERIS

00 :

Un

AbEn:

States

secret service CRET

MT.. John Hanla,

SE CARVEIDSURE

62-3588-28

SEARCHEQ.INDEXED..L

SERIALIZER O

CFILED....

- NOVE

1964

FBI - DALLAS

NH

50953

DocId:32156336

Page 2

---

