# 124-10280-10075

## Page 1

124-10280-10075

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10280-10075

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-228-2439

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 10/19/1976

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

OBA, CUBAN EXILE LEADER, ASSOC, TRA, VENEZUELA, BOMBING, CUBANA

AIRLINER

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

06/08/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NW 50953 DocId: 32302138 Page 1

---

## Page 2

8-13

C.

-7 %

• Hit.

for afro/

SECRET (When Filled In)

MTELLIGENC

Intelligence Information Cable

do: RÔUTINE

IN

WARNING NOTICE

073859

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

KIN HATH CLI

STATE/INR SCS/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCC SWS NSA TREAS NSC/S SDO NIO CRS PAGE 1 OF PAGES

Classified bi

General Declassification

Schedule ef E.O. 11632 Exemption,

DIRECTORATE OF

OPERATIONS

Cotegory 58

(1), (21. Impossible to Determine

Declassification.

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

C

CITE TDARDB-315/10454-76

Politica / matteRs-Venezuela

DIST

19 OCTOBER 1976

REPORT

GLASS SEC

RET WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED NOT RELEASABLE FOR FOREIGN NATIONALS

0).

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

DARLING

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINE

HEREIN IS LINCLASSIEIED

AME

DECLASSIFIED

DOI: : MID-OCTOBER 1976

SUBJECTS VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT ATTEMPTS TO FIE THE SOCIAL

N.

CHRISTIAN PARTY TO INDIVIDUALS LINKED TO THE BOMBING

OF A CUBANA AIRLINER

6

ACQ:

VENEZUELA, CARACAS (16 OCTOBER

1976 FIELU NO

7521

SOURCE: SEE BELOW.

ST-108 M5

DE-27

169-12-227-743

"SUMMARY: OFFICIALS OF THE DIRECTORATE

THE SERVICES OF

DINTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION (DISIP) HAVE BEEN ORDERED

INVESTIGATE THE: VENEZUELAN CONVECTIONS TO THE & OCTOBER NONE STAI

BOMBING OF

GUBANA AIRLINER. UNOFIFICIALLY, HOWEVER QTSTP

OFFICERS HAVE BEEN INSTRUCTED TO BUILD A CASE LINKING COPE!

THOSE INDIVIDUALS IMPLICATED IN THE INCIDENT. ON THE OTHER

HAND, DISIP OFFICERS FEAR THAT INFORMATION LINKING SOME DISIP

OFFICIALS TO CUBAN EXILE ORLANDO BOSCH MIGHT BECOME PUBLIC

KNOWLEDGE, EMBARRASSING THE GOVERNMENT AND FURTHER TAINTING

END OF SUMMARY.

108-12-228

VAR 4 1 1Y

5 DEC

119

SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION

DECLASSIORATON ANI

CIA NORMATI

SUD/ISR

ES

RELEASE OF

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

ВЛАС

Except

K81-27-98

34

HH 50953 DorTd: 32302138

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FORM

9-75

3007

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS:

EDITIONS

280-18075

RECEIVED

•RAL INVESTIGATIVE

11154

IN 073859

4 37 PM 376

RECEIVED

TDFIR DB-315/10454-76

WARNING NOTICE

TENSE MTELICENEEOUICES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGEZ OF b PAGES

SECRET

45 PH: 76

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(cassification)

1, SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 2-38 A VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT

•EMPLOYEE WHOSE POSITION GIVES HIM ACCESS TO OFFICIAL REPORTS

ON VARIOUS SUBJECTS, HIS RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED.

• THIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE DISCUSSED WITH ANY FOREIGN

OFFICIALS, INCLUDING THOSE OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT.

12, WHILE OFFICIALS OF THE DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF

INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION (DISIP, HAVE RECEIVED OFFICIAL

INSTRUCTIONS TO CARRY OUT A COMPLETE INVESTIGATION OF ALL

VENEZUELANS CONNECTED WITH THE Ó OCTOBER 1976 BOMBING OF A

CUBANA AIRLINER, UNOFFICIALLY DISIP OFFICERS HAVE BEEN ORDERED

TO CONCENTRATE THEIR INVESTIGATION ON MEMBERS OF THE SOCIAL

CHRISTIAN PARTY SCOPELD, DISIP OFFICIALS, THEREFORE, HAVE

DRAWN UP A LIST OF LOW TO MEDIUM-LEVEL OFFICIALS OF COPEI Jen

WHOM DISIP INTENDS TO TIE TO LUISXP OS A DA, A FORMER DISP

OFFICER WHO IS CURRENTLY UNDER DETENTION IN CONNEGTION WITH

THE BOMBING, AS CURRENTLY PLANNED, DISIP WILL BEGIN PICKING

UP THESE COPE! LEADERS FOR QUESTIONING DURING THE WEEK OF.

18 OCTOBER, (SOURCE COMMENT: ALTHOUGH POSADA DOES HAVE COPE I

CONNECTIONS, MOST DISIP OFFICERS DO NOT BELIEVE THAT COPET.

PLÀYED À ROLE IN POSADAIS ANTI-CUBAN ACTIVITIES. RATHER

THEY

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32302138 Page 3

---

## Page 4

603%

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

3007

EDITIONS

IN 073859 -

TDFIRDB- 315/70454-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 3 OF 6 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classification)

BELIEVE THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS ATTEMPTING TO IMPLICATE COPEI

FOR POLITICAL REASONS, Y

3, AT THE SAME TIME THAT IT IS WORKING ON ITS CASE

AGAINST COPEIA DISIP OFFICIALS ARE CONCERNED THAT INFORMATION

CONNECTING DISIP OFFICIALS AND CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDe Cuba

XBOSCHO WILL BECOME PUBLIC, SUCH REVELATIONS, DISIP OFFICERS

BELIEVE WOULD BE HIGHLY EMBARRASSSING TO THE GOVERNMENT OF

PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRESAXE

ER EZ AND DISASTEROUS FOR DISIR.

ven

WHICH HAS RECENTLY BEEN HURT

'BY CHARGES OF MISTREATING PRISONERS

ACCUSED OF BEING INVOLVED IN THE KIDNAPPING OF WILLIAM F. NIEHOUS.

4, SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 5-81 A VENEZUELAN WITH CLOSE

CONTACTS AMONG VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS. HIS RELIABILITY

HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED.

Veni

ON

14 OCTOBER DISIP DIRECTOR RETIRED GENERAL RAUL

IME NE ZAGAINZA SAID THAT PRESIDENT PEREZ HAD ORDERED WIM

TO CARRY OUT AN EXTENSIVE INVESTIGATION OF THE VENEZUELAN

CONNECTION IN THE CUBANA INCIDENT, ALTHOUGH GIMENEZ SAI, THAT

HE INTENDED TO CARRY OUT. THE PRESIDENT'S ORDERS, HE PERSONALLY.

FEARED THAT SUCH AN INVESTIGATION MIGHT LEAD TO PRESIDENTIAL

APPOINTEES OR TO COPE! LEADERS. IN EITHER CASE, GIMENEZ SAID

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32302138 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FORM

9-75

3007 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

280-10075

С АСИ!!! ін"!

IN

073859

TDFIR DB.-30 5/10454-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 4 OF 6 PAGES

SECRET

(classification)

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS, STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THAT HE FELT THERE COULD BE DIFFUCLTIES FOR THE PEREZ

ADMINISTRATION.

6.

IN THE FIRST INSTANCE, GIMENEZ SAID HE WAS PERSONALLY

fen

CONCERNED THAT ORLANDOX GAR C I AT PRESIDENT PEREZ'

INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY

AQVISER WHO:HAS BEEN ACTING AS DE FACTO

HEAD OF DISIP, MIGHT BE IMPLICATED, GIMENEZ QUICKLY ADDED,

HOWEVER, THAT THERE WAS NO EVIDENCE LINKING GARCIA TO THE

BOMBING INCIDENT, BUT THAT HE IS KNOWN TO BE INVOLVED IN

UNSPECIFIED ANTI-CUBAN GOVERNMENT ACTIVITIES, GIMENEZ SAID I'

THAT AS

, AN ADDED PRECAUTION HE HAS ASSIGNED SPECIAL GUARDS FOR

BOSCH AND POSADA, BOTH OF WHOM ARE CURRENTLY UNDER DISIP

DETENTION.

7, (FIELD COMMENTI FOR AN EARLIER REPORT ON BOSCH'S RECENT

ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA AND POSADA'S AND GARCIAS'S CONNECTION WITH

HIM SEE

7514, TDFIRDB-315/10256-760 FROM A USUALLY RELIABLE

REPORTER..

IN NEWS BROADCASTS A LOCAL TELEVISION STATION (CHANNEL 21 HAS

REPORTED THAT SÉVERAL INDIVIDUALS CURRENTLY HOLDING POSIIONS

WITH DISIP WERE SEEN ABOUT CARACAS WITH BOSCH, THE STATION

INDICATED THAT IT WOULD REVEAL THE IDENTITIES OF THESE OFFICERS

•AT A LATER DATE. )

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32302138 Page 5

---

