# 124-10221-10283

## Page 1

124-10221-10283

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY.INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10221-10283

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 185-789-735

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG. BUE

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/10/1976

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT:

OBA, AKA, ASSOC, INTV, DELGADO, ADRIANA, RES, REL, PASSPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

08/17/1998

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

-RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NH 50953

DocId: 32340890

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 2-14-74)

ATT:

AND

ADV

Transmit the following incar

DATE

PROTES

SECR

F B1

Date:

12/10/76

Via

lAsS

- 23-83 Type in plaintext or code!

CLASS.

AIRTEL

REASON -

DATE OF REVIEW

12-10 - 16

-E-SA HAS NO OBSTROLL

TO:

DIRECTOR (185-789)

DECLASSIFICAZION AND/ON,

MELEASE CE CIA INFORMATIONL

FROM:

OCHILBOM

PFO - MURDER; EID

LEGAT, BUENOS AIRES (157-35) (P)N ThIs DOCUMAN

NEXCEPT TORR

clair les agence .

BILACKETS

0д03 DB/KA

5m 6-25-97

8110/81

ReWFOrep SA L, CARTER

CORNICK, JR., 11/15/76; mycab7-31-97

12/6/76. (4)

This information is classified "Secret" inasmuch as

it contains

• CIA information so classifiedic u

Referenced BUE cab

• reported

that ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA,..

utilizing the PEDRO ANTONIO PENA identity, entered Chile from?

Peru on 12/3/74.

BEDRO ATTRA

On 12/2/76

advise

that a story had been filed on 10/21/76, by Associated Press writer,

WILLIAM R. LONG, concerning an

interview which he conducted with

BOSCH AVILA's Chilean mistress

in Santiago Chile. The text of

the Associated Press

is as follows:

Story as provided

logy

DE-49

"REC-46

155-789

35(8)

"Santiago,

Chiles.

Oct.

21 (AP) - ORLANDO BOSCH,

. CAR

MEX

mm

the Cuban exile leader

ender arrest

in Venezuela,

lived in Chile for a ye

beginning in December,

1974,

him.

says a Chilean woman who claims to have known DEC 28 1975

1/3/77

"She confirmed information from a source outside

ICC Em.4428

10 - Bureau

(1 - Foreign Liaison Unit)

LIEST UFO

(1 - Legat,.

Caracas) (174-8) 12/24716

em

593/

(1 - Legat

Mexico City

• X(T85-9)*

(1 - Miami) (185-76)

(1 ~ San Tuần),

tant: (185 185-576):

York ) (185-576) SCHoo

LSORY

(2 - 7r0) (185-425)

536.

OMAMIOALLY DECLASSIRED ON

2 - Buenos Aires

(1 - 105-1211) (Orlando Bosch Avila)

RWS : in

(12)

Approved: (

Special Agent in Charge

57 JAN 281977

Declassdy on

#F 211, 326

ADR Y833

SECRET Pilas: 1190-12024-1745

NH 50953 DocId: 32340890 Page 2

---

## Page 3

BUE 157-35

SECRET

work activities in Chile that she knew of were

writing and painting She said he told her he

was a physician

and owned a clinic in Miami,

Florida.

"His

son,

visited him

in Chile for

about 20_days

October 1975, she

said.

She said BOSCH left Chile for about five days

around the middle of last year, but she did not

say where he went.

и)

"Referring to BOSCH's reasons for being in

Chile, she said:

'He told me that he was here in Chile

because.

I don't know, it was more peaceful, because

ne liked it•

talk about that.

I Wierstood that he adagiwant to

"She said she did not know of any contacts other

than eased one ho know at this elmed euleans,

"She emphasized: "He is a very correct person who

loves his fatherland

vory much- that is his only detectfu

"BOSCH was detained in Venezuela for questioning

about the explosion of a Cuban airliner that killed 73

persons two weeks ago.

"The Washington Post said Thursday that he was expelled

from Costa Rica in May for using a false Chilean passport.

advised that discreet inquiries

interstaved by lone, de ADRIANA BELCADO SA's mistress, who had beer

nterviewed by-LONG

advised that DELGADO had movëd

San Borja Towers address to

another location in Santiago believed to be Calle San Francisco

155.

Obviously DELGADO would have valuable information concerni

Cuban exile contacts who visited BOSCH in Santiago during the year

he resided in that city. When photographs of all known Cuban exile

members in the continental United States and Puerto Rico known to

have visited BOSCH in Chile are received by Legat, Buenos Aires,

arrangements will be made for an in depth interview with DELGADO

during which the photographs will be displayed in an effort to

elicit complete information

concerning these individuals and their

activities in Chile.

- 3-

SECRET

HH 50953 DooId: 32340890 Page 3

---

## Page 4

157-35

The attention

the Buseat and interested offices is

invited to Section XXVI

relitorep, which contains a partial

text of a report dated 10/8/76 prepared by the Ad Hoc Working

Group on situations of human rights in Chile, United Nations

General Assembly. This report contained information concerning

DINA, which in some instances is obviously incorrect and based

on rumors and heresay. For example,

296 of rerep indicates

that DINA Headquarters and office of DINA Director was located

on Marcoleta Street in

Santiago at the former offices of the

Chilean Communist

Youth.

As previously reported, DINA Headquarters

and the DINA Director's Office are located at 1l Calle Belgrado,

in santiago woot, bo

This fact is well known in Santiago and probably any taxi driver

in Santiago would be able to take a passenger to DINA Headquarters

on request. From the nature ofinformation contained in this

report, it appears that the Ad Hoc Working Group compiled information

volunteered by various Chilean dissidents concerning DINA operations

in Chile. Nonetheless, an extremely interesting piece of informa-

tion is contained on Page 300 of rerep, which identifies various

DINA premises in Santiago. One of the locations identified as a

DINA situs is listed

in Paragraph (D) as an apartment in the san

Borja Housing Project.

As noted in the above Associated Press

dispatch, BOSCH AVILA resided with his Chilean mistress at the

San Borja Towers Housing Development. (v)

It would be extremely significant if it could be established

with any degree of certainty that BOSCH's apartment, was

in fact

a location utilized by DINA®

Accordingly, it is suggested that WFo

or the New York Office give consideration to ascertaining from

the Ad Hoc Committee Working Group whether the exact location of

the alleged DINA apartment in the San Borja Housing Project can be

identified and if possible the source, who identified the apartment

as a DINA location be located and interviewed. (u)

It shoulebe noted that

advised

that

investigation disclosed the exact qddress of BOSCH AVILA and

his Chilean mistress's apartment as Building #1

Apartment #24g

Torres de San Borja, Alameda, Santiago, Chile.

ARMED

AND

DANGEROUS.

SECHET

ЧЕСЬЕЛ

NH 50953 DocId: 32340890 Page 1

---

