# 124-90137-10062

## Page 1

124-90137-10062

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/16/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90137-10062

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-84973-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE :

FBI

PAPICH

TO : FROHBOSE

DATE: 02/18/1960

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

PEL VECCHIO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

NW 50953

DocId: 32337296

Page

1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GÓV

IMENT

Memorandum

TO

MR. F. A. FROHBOSEY

DATE:

218-60

SECRET

FROM

S. J.

I- Baungardner

I-Donahoe

Tolson

Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

De Loach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingram _

Gandy

SUBJECT:

VECCHIO; H. R.

A.QBRUMA

NEUTRALITY MATTER

I-Nasca

1-Liaison

I-Papich

Done

MTS.

Jane Roman,

Central Intelligence Agency (CIAl, /

telephonically aduised on 2-18-60 that the following informa

tron was received by cable of the same date from the ChA office.

in Rio de Janeiro.

Brazilian officials reported that three men are in

Miami, Florido, attempting to sichanter a plane for the purpose

of carrying arms to

an unknown destination in Brazil.

These arms

are to he used for "an unknown Cuban enterprise."

The individuals

involved are using the names as captioned above.. One of them is

wearing a Brazilian Army uniform.

Brazilians are attempting to

obtain additional. detaz1s.

CIA is trying to obtain the identity

of the:

Brazilian source and will keep us advised. CIA hus

furnished this information to Customs, Immigration and

Naturalization Service and Secret ServiceC

ACTIONS

11-1

This information is being directed to the attention

of the Nationalities Intelligence Sectión. ClA HAS NO OBIECTION TO

SUP nMn

(2) Th

HELEASE OF LA TOMATION

hid

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

0D22

105-84973-

S668520/GeL

8/1193

43/95

Massied

+ 9803 m22 s0

Declassif on BAlf al30l

det to smami

MCT - 41

• 59

EX-132

HARRE SHOWN

20 FEB 26 1960

NONES UNCLASSIFIED

62-10-97

Ditole

ANE INCORMATION CONTAINED

2/24/60

SECRED

DECLASSIFY OIN: 25X.

(JFK)

RW 50953 DocId: 32337296 Page 2

---

