124-90158-10023}

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY =
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

Agency Information

FBI
124-90158-10023

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER CR 105-137428-25
Document Information

ORIGINATOR FBI

FROM: MX

TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE 09/23/1969
PAGES 3

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA =

COMMENTS :

LUIS POSADA

ROLANDO ARCADIO ESPARZA HERNANDEZ

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret
1B
Redact
2/08/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

MEMO

v9.1

_ NW 50953 DocId:32340366 Page 1


‘OPTONAL FORM NO. 10 : =
May oe2 Eoin
GSA Hmm (4 CFR) 1O1=11.6

UNITED 'STA1, __/ GOVERNMENT
yy Memorandum - i
TO D-uCTOR, FBI (105-137428) DATE: 9-23-69
i
if

Alet af ms
moi foci, MEXICO (105-5161) OY 4) :

d oF oe
suBjEcT: ROLANDO ARCADIO ESPARZA HERNANDEZ
Is - CUBA

Re Los Angeles let and LHM 8-16-68,

assified SECRET dated 9-8-69,
CIA ade available the following
information which was recéived from a sensitive and usually
reliable source, They stated: "THIS INFORMATION IS FROM AQ
CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE, IT IS NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED IN WHOLE §3
OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF THES
ORIGINATING OFFICE IN MEXICO." A paraphrased version of the
information follows: ef) :

, In mid-August, 196}
used the address of ‘Arca
x Beverly Drive, Los Ange: Ay
address. 623 1/2 Laveta Terr. ,” Los Angeles, California,
was in contact with the Cuban Consulate in Mexico a
u
The Subject claimed to have visited the Consuhate
during February. or March, 1966. He also visited the
Cuban con, ulates ‘in Veracruz, Veracruz, Mexico, where
B00

he met LU XPOSADA, Cuban Consul from Tampico, Tamaulipas,

Mexico, that timé he wanted to rettirn to Cuba, but
‘fOr reasons beyond his control he was unable to do 80 C2NGA)(u)

The Subject stated that now more than two years
have passed and:he realizes that his presence in the
United States-has no meaning. He therefore desires a
visa to return to his beloved homeland, His Cuban
passport, No, 40263, has expired and he wishes to have

enewen DIC) (u) RECI24
; &-np

son -Sec. ‘ton!
an -eles,. 105- 1782356 $9

OT 1 71969 G0 ars

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan,” Jo. ra /: 3B #35 Bp

‘
\] sor0-108-02
ate.

HW 50953 DocIld:32340366 Page 2
