124-90144-10004

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90141-10001
RECORD SERIES :. HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 105-92413-46
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: WMFO
TO: HQ
TITLE :
DATE: | 04/11/1961
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
QUINTIN PINO MACHADO
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: = 1A.
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/12/1999
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS : AT

v9.1
HW 50953 Docld:32338205

Page 1


FD-96 (Rey. 12-13-56)

Date: AAI

Transmit the following in

ei ap text or code)

Pp
Via ATRTEL CLASS SSD senile
ECLASSF YU cea

<7 or Method of Mailing)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-92413)

o
wl no “Sac, WFO (105-38673)
Q

QUINTIN PINO”’ MACHADO
Is - CUBA

iss

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies of o-AS4Y |
a letterhead memo dated and captioned as above.

The inf ant mentioned in enclosed letterhead i
memo 1algir 1278-5" ISG |

The enclosed letterhead memo is classified
"Confidential" inasmuch as it reveals our investigative
intéFest in a diplomatic official of a foreign power. It |
is also classified "Confidential" inasmuch as the data {
reported thergin could possibly result in the identification - {
| of a, confidential;informant of continuing value and

compromise th ure effectiveness thereof.

. 7 ENCubsy
Paroad (Enc-9)

2-WFO
(aflos- -39771
JES :MJB
(5) ;
AIRTEL ed SAS. —98 AB - He
pocle™, is a

‘ia APA TA 1968

4 4 Spegial Agent in Charge

fat

HW 50953 DocId:32338205 Page 2


“CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
_DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE GE CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT,
As SAWITIZED
AIRTEL

TOs DIRECTOR, FBE (105-92413)
Classi
PROM: SAC, WFO (105-38673) Seas a
QUINTIN PING MACHADO Q assifizD BY SCE% Slo
ae DECLARBIEY 0} Exe

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies of
a letterhead memo dated and captioned as above.

fhe informant mentioned in enclosed lettorhead
meno isfwP 1278-S*, A)

The enclo: letterhead memo is classified
"Confidential" inasmuch as it reveals our investigative
interest in a diplomatic official of a foreign power. It
,is also classified “Confidential" inasmuch as the data
reported therein could possibly result in the identificaticen
f a confidential informant of continuing value and

‘compromise the future effectiveness thereef.
PY Bae
@pureau (Ene-9)

Cgos- som kegie) aL Te

PARE iS CLA

. Rupa

JES:MIB UHLESS IRE
(5)

HW 50953 DocId:32338205 Page 3
