# 124-10062-10355

## Page 1

124-10062-10355

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10062-10355

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-5617

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

LEG, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

09/30/1969

PAGES: 7

SUBJECT: LHO, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/24/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/19/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NH 50953

DocId: 32140768 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONARE PORAR 1O. 10

MAN H9BN 4е4168:

LOGA FRiME 141 CPRY 101-11.4

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

"TO

Director, FBI. (105-82555)

UNLI

FROM K

egat, Mexico City

(105-3702)

(RÚC)

CIA HAS NO OBJEETION

DECLASSIFICATION AND/G

(K 3/10/97)

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATICA

IN THIS DOCUMENTA& SANTI ZEpt. 30,

1969

SUBJECT:

Confidential

LEE HARVEY

OSWALD

IS - RUSSIA - CUBA

No 040F

Tags

ReBulet 9/12/69 to Assistant Attorney General, Internal

Security Division, copies of which were forwarded to this office.

Enclosed herewith are two Xerox reproductions of the

Mexico City file copies of Mr. CHARLES THOMAS' memorandum dated

12/10/65,

and the memoranda from this office to the Ambassador

dated 12/27/65 and 2/23/66L

Background

ELENA (GARRO DE PAZ, or Miss GARRO as Mr. THOMAS calls

her, is a well known fighre in Mexican political, social and

literary circles.

She was a playwright and well known to many

officials of the Embassy including the then Ambassador FULTON

FREEMAN, the then Deputy Chief of Mission CLARENCE A. BOONSTRA,

and many others.

All of those officials expressed to me on

various occasions the opinion that Miss GARRO is a very interesti

person and a scintillating conversationalist, but that she has a

vivid imagination and frequently appears to be unable to distingu:

between truth and fiction.

Although interesting, they all consid

her as highly

unreliable as a source of information except for

Mr. THOMAS who apparently placed consistent credence in what Miss

GARRO said.

DE

EXEMP

DATEO

When Miss GARRO visited this office in November 1964,

sl

claimed that she had seen LEE HARVEY OSWALD at a party given at

the home of RUBEN DURAN on September 30, October 1, or October

1963, as reported in Mexico City letterhead memorandum of 12/11/64

As preyiously reported, MiSs GARRO claimed that her daughter,

ELENA PAZ 'GARRO, who accompanied her at that party, met tor

first time, a young man later identified by her as ARIO ALEJANDRO

LAVAGNINI STENIUS.

Identification of this individual,

who had

Bureau (Encs.-6) :

My 797-82555-5619

(1 - Liaison Section)

- Mexico City

Corps

(5)

Dallas (Issach o

REC 85

Masanet e

1::

4210-14-69

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

70)

9019-104-02

NH 50953 DocId: 32140768

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MEX 105-3702

Confi

IsiJ

it tado

SECRET.

who acquired this intelligence information, I feel a

responsibility for seeing it through to its final evaluation.&

it appears, therefore, that Mr. ThOMAs has- now decided that he

and not the FBI or the Department

of Justice is the one to

decide how the story given by Miss, GARRO is-to be evaluated.•

The concept that every person who passes on to another govern-

ment agency information relating to matters within the jurisdiction

of that agency has the responsibility and authority to review

and evaluate the action taken by that agency is, of course,

untenable.

Further question concerning Mr. THOMAS ' judgment is

raisedby item 3 of paragraph 10 of his memorandum furnished to

the Secretary of State.

Any reference to the

relationship between the head of CIA Mexico anu cop mexican

officials, it true, is a very highly classified matter and any

"leak" or

revelation to unauthorized individuals concerning such

an arrangement would, in view of the delicate Mexican political

situation, be disastrous

to the Mexican Government as well as ..

to Mexican-American relations. The delicacy of the situation

has recently been greatly augmented by the published Cuban

allegation

that one of the officers of the Mexican Embassy

in

Havana was acting as a CIA spy with the knowledge of the Mexican

Government & Mr. THOMAS, however, included such a highly

classified

reference in

a memorandum which he classified

only

as

"confidential"

, contrary to regulations relative to classification

of documents.

While this reference relates to the activities and

operations of another Government agency and therefore is not of

primary concern

to the Bureau, it is nevertheless called to the

Bureau's attention for consideration in evaluating Mr. THOMAS'*

current allegations.

An additional copy of this letter is being forwarded

for use in the event the Bureau desires to forward a copy to

Dallas which received a copy of referenced letter.u

1020g64209)

cones dant 1a2

SECRET.

50953 DocId: 32140768 Page 3

---

