# 124-10217-10454

## Page 1

124-10217-10454

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10217-10454

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-95461-78

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

-

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/29/1962

MRR, ORGANIZATIONS, ACA, MEMBERSHIP, POLICY

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NY 50953

DocId: 32296678

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ORI

ORT.

yst

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contalus Information aflecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Esplounge Laws,

13 U8.0. Bees. 793 and 194, the transmission or revolstion of which lu any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

cuban Rebel Gali tro/CONTINED CONTROL

bd

REPORT NO.:

CIA HAS NO OBJECZURECTO

mi-castro Movement

DATE DISTR.

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR, In Cuba, December 1961

CS -3/505,853

29 March 1962

6

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

RD-W-2107

REC

place in is

20 December 1962

MKA 916-98 DAEACO.

Argentina, Buenos Aires (28 January 1962)

THIS IS. UNEVALUATED

INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINE POPE-SO OF COFFER I ERAN!

SOURCE:

APR 1 2 196

CIA SJP

2-21-98

(JFK)

2.

CURA

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 81*9-94B SP8-M

38 a

Anti-Castro activities in Cuba include those of the nation-wide organized

movements and those of local fronts where independent

guerrillas are grouped

in small units.

The penetration of the Cuban armed forces is insignificant.

The national movements which have

been active in Cuba are thei

ovimientio de

Recuperacion Revolucimaria

(MAR.

Pueb lo

Revolucionerio

pimiento Demucrata Cristiano (MDC),

sovimiento

Vieno

*oy miento Revolucimario del

escare eroticine. an

rectorio Revolucionario

-Estudianti

Other.

cups with 1im.

Ited organizations are the Unidad

Revolucionaria and the ARA.

Asociacion: de Amigos de Aureliano Sancnez

Arango

The Strength of the groups by province 13. as follows:

a.

Southern Oriente Province (Santiago de Cuba)-

(1)

The MRR, of Nino Diaz, has members from the ranks of the

26 of July Movement and, especially, from the former regular army.

Its civilian organization is poor,

almost non-existent.

remain Inactive, waiting for a serious military action of a local

or national character"

(2)

MDC.

The MDC has an adequate civilian organization; from the

founding

of the movement Santiago de Cuba has been one of its

strongholds.

the military organization is extremely poor.

of its leaders have gone into exile or are trying to do so.

They remain totally inactive in hope of an invasion which will resolve

the situation,

and only concern themselves about a future political

Illi, at. the

Jing whor the procent sorommont falls....

30 de Moviembre. there are few members of the 30 de Novlembre in

Santiago de Cuba,

ard they lack contact with their national leaders.

They have practically no resources.

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

STATE

ARMY

X| NAVY

INSA

IX TOCR

REICINCLANT

CINCARTS H

(Note: Washington distribution indicated by "X"; Fiald distribution by "#")

197,

ORIGINAL-RETAIN

100-114

if 16-6

with as are

OR

ON REPORT

copies made

J.pg 1,2

OSTRON Me MRA

3.78

190r.

for revier at FBInQ by

ESCA re 3/1/28 request.

(See Bufile #62- 117290)

ATHT

50953

DoCTA: 32296678

Page 2

---

## Page 3

cool tic i

102

4/24/62-166

ST IT -PEC. 54/05 954

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL,

11 APR 1.70533/505;

nil october much than

Innediately after the arrest

onzalez the national coordinator, the

localco-grainator and almost all the members in the province sought asylun.

There are still

men of action,

coning fron the 26 of July Movement, but they have to

re-establish contacts.

(5)

Rescate: Rescate has no members in this area.

CUBA

.. (6) DRE.

The DRi was conpletely broken by the unsuccessul uprising of Albert

Muller

CORDED COPY FILED

and by the arrest in Dotober of "El Fiera", provincial co ordinavor.

The Dis

still has great prestige in the area, and there are many who would follow its

S6AP9251982/44

Jo. Northern Oriente Prorina

MAY 251970

27740

The MAn is practically not existent in northern Orleite Provinas,

- with the escoption of a lon moronel sonous at lina Dista

MDC The MDC is poorly organized and inactive.

219-10459

(4) MRP.

APR 20 1962

Ever before the debacla of October the, MRP: had a very poor

organization in this area.

Gomez ("Ricardo"'), the coordinator,

was arrested in the roundup at that time, but escaped and took asylum

In the Ecuadorean Embassy.

His successor and the military and civilian

personnel are relatively capable. DOM INTELL DIY.

(5)

Rescate. It does not exist in this area.

(6) DRE. It does not exist in this area.

c. Camaguoy Province.

(I) MRR.

At the beginning of April 1961 Caballero (Inu), the coordinator,

whose nickname is "El Viejon, was arrested and condemned to 30 years

on the Isle

Arango (inu), who was named coordinator in

has been forced to seek asylum in Habana. The movement has

(2) MDC. The MDC has an excellent coordinator, Blanco (fnu), who is

responsible, discreet, with good connections.

The MDC has

a very good

civilian orgenization and at present is concerned about its military

organization, for which they already have some personnel.

They work

effectively and are trying to carry out sone nilitary sotions.

(3) 30 de Noviembrre..

The civilian orgardzation 1s relatively good. It has

a small but effective military force.

(4) MRP. Camaguey is practically the only provinco: in which the MRP was not

affected by the arrests of

It has a good civilian organization

and military forces of importance, which are under the comand of former

ofricers of the Rebel Army.

Arquimides Caballero ("'Estebon"), its

former co-ordinator, took asylum in the Brailian Embassy: "Picardo",

his replacenent, is very young (21 years old) but is considered very good.

(5)

Rescate.

It has a poor organization. There are enough men, but they

are inactive.

(6)

Few members of the DRE, remain, and "Ironco" and Ratael Angel Quevedo,

directors, are knoim by Gal.

The movement has been destroyed.

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

HH 50953 DOrTd: 32296678

Page 3

---

