# 124-10205-10371

## Page 1

124-10205-10371

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10205-10371

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

97-4073-1ST NR 8, 9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO :

SAC, MM

TITLE :

DATE:

06/22/1960

PAGES:

75

SUBJECTS :

CUBA LIBRE, BKG INVEST, ASSOC, NEWSPAPER,

PUBLICATION, PATRIA LIBRE, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC RPT

v9.1

HH 50953

2

DooId: 32290595

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-204 (Rev, 3-3-59)

SECRET

TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF ISTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1 - INS, Miami

(RM)

Miami (RM)

1 - US Border Patrol, Miami

(RM)

1. - G-2, Ft. McPherson, Ga.

(RM)

Copy to:

*ONI, DIO, 6th ND, Charleston,

1. OSI, MacDiLl AFB, Tampa,

Fla,

60 (RM)

(RM)

Report of: LEMAN I. STAFFORD,

JR.

Date:

Office: MIAMI, FLA.

OCT 1 0 1960

Field Office File # Miami (97-309)

97-4073

CHA 118"

Title:

"CUBA LIBRE®®

D.

NO/ER,

(Post Office Box 2235, 1

MATION

Miami 1, Florida)

IN

Just as Scintipedl

Sp& mACISe

2/4/91 EMB

919-94

Character: REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA.

Classified by S86 BAlGe (JrM)

2047

Declassify on: OADR

13/85

CLASSARD BY 5668 320 mde

Synopsis:

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

SPIASSE 0/201E4

120-905/845: 0477293981

14OU1.C

on 6/9/60, MM T-1 reported receiving information

from

usually rellable source that

stated flights were being made fro Florida to Cuba

for the purpose of dropping bundles of newspapers

"Patria" and "Cuba Libre u

Miani, and stated he could furish no information re

Interviewed by FBISSIBIl

allegation, although he had heard rumors that such

flights had been made In 1959.

Source at Colonial

Pre88,

Miami, reports

"Cuba Libre" still being edited

by JOSE ACOSTA. Three thousand

copies of newspaper being

published weekly but ACOSTA has requested reduction to 2,000

copies..

Source states ACOSTA destroys approximately

half

of weekly printing, and ACOSTA believed to be making a

living fron funds which he solicits for the purpose of

printing newspaper.

Summaries of typical articles set

forth.

• P.

(GIN

DETAILS:

I..

* 30

ART ENFORMATION CONTATNED

HEREINS UNOLASSTFIED

PACERS WHEN SO T

(OTHERWiSS

ALLEGATION REGARDING DROPPING OF NEWSPAPERS

"PATRIA" AND

"CUBA LIBRE"

SECRET

SEr REVERSE

SIDEVOR

CLASAFICATION

ACTIP

This document contains neither recommendations nor concluaions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and ite contents are not to be distributed outside your agercy.

NH 50953 DocId: 32290595 Page 2

---

## Page 3

(SECRET

MM

97 309

S

On June 9

1960, MM T-1, another Government

agency which conducte security and intelligence Inves

tigations, reported it had received the following In

formation from a usually, rellable source in Mexico City

According

CS]

small planes

were making two or three trips from Florida to Cuba

weekly

In order to drop bundles of "atria"

and "Cuba

described as publications

Approximately five

thousand

copies of the publications are printed weekly At

are printed at the Colonial Press, 3265 N. W..

Street, Miaul, Florida, by JOSE/ACOSTA, RAFABLAGIAS

JINGLAN, former Cuban Vice-President,

and (FNU) MON

TANE. JOSTIACOSTA resides at 701 S.

Sth Street,

motel apartment 4, Miami, Florida

Or Auzust Lar 1960

[5]

Informed

that he 18 a

U. S. citizen of Cuban descent who has been residing

In Miant. for many years.

He described himself as a

television radio repairman by trade.

Among other

things,

Furnished the following Information:

•(S)

said he had no knowledge that my plane:

trips are

being made from the United States to drop any

type of propaganda in Cuba.

He said it ie too risky and

dangerous in view of the restrictions which have been

Imposed on plane flights by the U.S. Border Patrol.

sald he had heard numerous rumors that some

but he could furnish no

specific information, could identify no pilots, nor could

he give the names of airporte which were reportedly

used. He could furnish no other pertinent information

concerning that matter.

personally denied being engaged in any

type of revolutionary activity. He sald he is residing

(SECRET

....

HH 50953 DooId: 32290595 Page 3

---

## Page 4

F.D-204 (Rev, 3-3-59)

Copy to:

S.

C. (RM)

(RM)

Title:

SECRET

ITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF,

USTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1 INS, Miami (RM)

I = US Customs, Miaml (RM)

•1. US Border Patrol, Miami

(RM)

1. = Go2, Ft. MePherson, Ga.

(RM)

1 = ONI, DIO, 6th ND, Charleston,

1. OSI, MacDill AFB, Tampa, Fla:

Repoit of: LEMAN L. STAFFORD, JR.

OCT 1 0 1960

Field Office File # Miami (97-309)

"CUBA LIBRE®

(Post Office Box 2235,

Miami 1, Florida)

Office: MIAMI, FLA.

Bureou File #:

97-4073

AFIL

sps macuse

7-19-94

4-20.803P8at 56177993,982

Classified by SD6BTAGCL

Character: REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA.

Declassify On: DABR 4/3/85

Synopsis:

SPIAG5C0/30/89

296464

On 6/9/60, MM I-1 reported receiving information from

usually reliable source that

Miami, had[s

stated flights were being made from Florida to Cuba

"Patria"

Tinterviewed by FBI,

Miami, and stated he could furnish no information re

allegation, although he had heard rumors that such

flights had been made In 1959.

Source at Colonial

Press, Miami, reports

¡ "Cuba Libre! still being edited

by JOSE ACOSTA.

Three thousand coples of newspaper being

published weekly butACOSTA has requested reduction to 2,000

copies.

Source states ACOSTA destroys approximately

half

of weekly printing, and ACOSTA believed to be making a

living from funds which he solicits for the purpose of

printing newspaper.

Summaries of typical articles set

forth.

DETAILS: I•

ALLEGATION REGARDING DROPPING OF

"PATRIA" AND "CUBA LIBRE"

NEWSPAPERS

ALL INFOR

MARION CONTAINED

HERITH IS UPO

SSINTED

Excher witte

SECRET

SEE REVERSE

SIDE VOR

CLASSICATION

ACTION

This document-contatns neither recommendations nor conclusions of the. FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency i it and, lie contents are not to be distributed outaide your agency.

NH 50953 DocId: 32290595 Page 1

---

## Page 5

(SECRET

MM

97-309

On June 9, 1960, MM I-l, another

Government

agency which conducts security and intelligence Inves

tigations, reported it had received the following In

formation

from a usually rellable source in Mexico City:

According to

[5]

small planes

were

making two

three

trips fros Florida to Cuba

weekly in order to

drop bundles of "atria"

and "Cuba

" described as publicationa

Approximately five

thousand copies of the publications are printed weekly

and sent to different parts of Cuba.

The newspapers

are printed at the Colonial Fress, 3265 N. W. 37th

Street, Miami,

Florida, by JOSE ACOSTA, RAFAEL GUAS

INCIAN, former Cuban Vice-President,

and (FNU) MON.

TANE

JOSE ACOSTA reSides at 701 S. W. 5th Street,

motel apartment 4, Miami, Florida.

On August 11, 1960

Informed that he is a

U. S. Citizen of Cuban descent who has been residing

In Miami for many years.

He described himself as a

television radio repairman by trade.

Among other

things,

furnished the following information:

15(5)

sald he had no knowledge that any plane:

trips. are being made from the United States to drop any

type of propaganda in Cuba.

He said It 18 too risky and

dangerous in view of the restrictions which have been

imposed on plane flights by the U.S. Border Patrol.

said he had heard numerous ruors that some

Flights were made in 1959,

but he could furnish no

specific information, could identify no pilots, nor could

he give the nams of airports which were reportedly

used. He could furnish no other pertinent information

concerning that

matter

(S)

personally denied being engaged in any

type of revolutionary activity. He said he is residing

SECRET

HH 50953 DooId: 32290595 Page 5

---

## Page 6

іт.,

1 • Nasca

SECREA

SACy. Hidas

олде 22g

1960

Dinectes; FAT (209-504)

16 - CUBA

9/4/85 S86 B TA/BCL -21/826

Classified ly SP6 ET TAK

Declassily on: OADA

$329,868

• ALE INFORNANZOR 2031

HERE: 10

OTHERWISE

182

inelosed for enco ottico is a copy of leia

Lotter dated 6o4:60 captioned "Cuban Coutorovolutionary

(S)

Pronotiy

uncerview

Fatrio alore,

Cuba LAbza

and Jose acosta. are Spadecte

10v00 642961005 a you airloo.

Loretoont: date

developed

anagerning

allegod Diase

tron Vlorida

Sacula be mato atatiablo to

coston and tad

Doceraine

Ja dou bart cuerty concenteg-blo

counterrevolution wid to gin

13 C00 LE 500u0

1 2960-

111014: from his

concaste

dat 30 my

the alleged:

Maine

Xhoo Can

3008100. 164

Identifiable

In orna tron, concersing Crana

tos Located in BurlideYor

-Taste

incoroation furnished.

23 022.23

be gives to

instisastra

asoporae/lavest.gatton.of

00:40.000)

kar echole

1702 Trans

83?

01 his

Cia's 440/9s

9853 holgel

sou Lors check i

n: Karaol Dies Dalart

substantial Lon

fontee pronotly:

86020e the Sureau

there is'ay substanttation

basel

vapors

thể tra

Le 10 shod that provot- Au

provincesa

abstantiat

YELLOW

, DUPLICATE

UN22 1960

MAILED

Pheleane.

92

JUN 2 3 1900

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

- #0M

Fort

1closire)

Poreign bratson Unit' (route

97-4073 Toula 119ze

105-84449 (Jose Acosta.)

VEN: fag-

5 1960

(12)

"SECRETI

1=

97-4146 (Patria Llbre)

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

NN 70953

D001d: 32290595

Page 6

---

## Page 7

otter to SAC, Miami

Re:

ANI-FIDEL CASINO ACTIVIEIES

109-584

SECREU

CIA furnished information originating with

[5]

Cuban exile In Mani. He allegedly Stated that smell

planes

make two or three trips weekly from Plorida to Cuba

to drop bundles of Cuba and Patrio Libre, anti-Castro

publications

publications.

Nose

Acosta reportedly 19 connected with these

stated that dias Barlart (win whom (5.

Ny has been in

contact) was a main figure in the counter

(S)

revolutionary army-

Jalso belletes that counterrevolution

will begin in June,

1960,

and

is being prepared in Mexico.

We should interview

we at & a indestine air bagg

189) 88)

'SECRET

NH 50953

DooId: 32290595

Page 7

---

