# 124-10071-10230

## Page 1

124-10071-10230

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10071-10230

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-109060-5670

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEGAT, MX

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/11/1967

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: JFK, SEARCHING, SUSPECT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

06/30/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/22/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

• .

WH 50953

DocId: 32143229

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ALI INFORNATION CONTAINED

CIA

HAG

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFT 3D EXCEPT

NO O5.

10

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

WHERE SHORT OTHERWISE.

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

Х.

43 MOW28-071

Tolson

DeLoach.

Modir.

Bighop:

Casper

i Call adi

#Conrad

D

O AIRGRAM

to CABLEGRAM

CRADIO "LETELETYPE

Hoimes

Gandy

STATE 13

URGENT 811-67

TO DIRECTOR (62-909060)

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY NR. 461

DY *

as800

On: V

влебида

ref

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN FITZGEBALD KENNEDY, DALLAS,

TEXAS, NOVEMBER 22, 1963, MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION

CONCERNING.

NT

ME

RE MEX CABLE AUGUST. 8 LAST.

'"THE NEWS", MEXICO CITY ENGLISH LANGUAGE NEWSPARER

TODAY HAD FRONT PAGE STORY. ENTITLED SEARCH ON FOR MISSINGS pau

NEWSMAN®™ ARTICLE STATED/THAYER

WALDO LEFT MEXICO CINE

UNEXPECTEDLY EARLY IN JULY AND WAS LAST HEARD FROM IN A

LETTER POSTMARKED LOS ANGELES WITH NO RETURN ADDRESS.

ARTICLE REPORTED UNCONFIRMED REPORTS THAT WALBO

PLANNED TO GO TO CHILE, AND STATED ME WAS KNOWN TO BE

INVESTIGATING FOR NEW ORLEANS DISTRICT ATTORNEY MINERO

GARRISON RE CAPTIÓNED MATTER:

HEAD OF CIA STATION, MEXICO CITY, REITERATED TODAY THAT

REC 46 62 109060:

5670

196.00000

ros. Cater.

Exertipl

pang outs

If the intelligence contained in the above message li

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic

14 AUG 16 1967

levA

d outside the Bureau, it lad

ted that it

suitably

NH 50953 DocId: 32143229

Page 2

---

## Page 3

453 450457028-671

I AIRGRAM

CODE CODED CO REGRET

Xx CABLEGRAM

RADIO TOM

Tolson -

De Loach

Mohs -

Bishop .

Casper -

Callahun

Contad -

Felt -

Cale -

Rosen _

Sullivan

Tavel ...

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

PAGE 2, FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY NR. 461

HE HAD BEEN ADVISED CONFIDENTIALLY BY MEXICAN IMMIGRATION

OFFICIAL THAT WALDO WAS REQUESTED TO LEAVE MEXICO. CIA,

MEXICO, HAS RECEIVED REQUEST FOR BACKGROUND INFORMATION

WHICH MIGHT INDICATE WALDO'S PRESENCE

IN SPAIN, AND WILL AOVISE CLA, HEADQUARTERS BY CABLE OF

URLANES UNTEREST IN WALDO'S WHEREABOUTS

THIS OFFICE WILL SEND COPY OF ABOVE ARTICLE TO BUREAU

TODAY.

RECEIVED: 11:49 PM MFL

CC. MR. SULLIVAN

SRD CC: MR. BRENNAN

FY11

i put

FQUESECRET

Mate intellige e core prod in the above me rape is to te seeminated ord side the Bureau, it is suprested that it be suitably

NW 50953 DocId: 32143229

Page 3

---

