124-90135-10274)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/2/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90135-10274
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 105-82298-NR
- Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: SA
TITLE:
DATE: — 03/15/1961
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS :
ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret.
RESTRICTIONS: — 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 01/20/1999

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE

AT

vol

20

HW 50953 DocIld:32336879 Page 1


i ae ‘ i
Hor... SACa, San Antonio ~ cr ify on: OADR 1/27
2 = New York

2 = gan Prancieco CLASSIFIED BY Stag sue ees
DECLASSIFY OF: 2:
Prom: Director, PBI (1059-94985) . (SRL) he
Ling Lindesey, aka : ct D yrts
LLI Lianasituy
i Lindsey Ling Yeh // EXEMP.
po ES @. CH !

; :
ge Department of Air Farce by letter dated W2/6i requested

LOs=2108, Bufile 10g-82208, bo interviewed re captioned subjects

u
x

viewed by San Antonio Office. He was reported ly.a comeuntae and while
elaining to be tavoived in antieCastro activities with Willian Lorgany,
Ccstro leader and soldier of fortune recently executed by Castre
government, Henoyd actually betrayed 8 Dominican Republie snti=-Caatre
plot #0 overthrow Castro. WU

rr

Age Sater aanined infarsotion ics Bseivee from GLA that
ceeording t¢ Greece _ noyo hail contacted the
captioned subject in late August, 1700, 7 Senta arid, the Ampy'ese
Aip Foree continued gubject currently resides in Hadrid where he
manages @ restaurant aliegedl) owned by another unidentified ohinese
who peportedly has supplied ¢ othing to 7. S. personnel at Lajea Base
in the Asores. Subject is one of several Chinese guspected of uatng
business vertures @2 cover for capionage or ether tllegal acgivitiess.
H Air Force adviacd further taet CIA furnished information thet e

i
t
\

Theodor Meing Wiener, a tuaingss associate of the subject, was,
es HAS NO OBJECTION TO Aer. id
CLASSI NDIOR fine Se |
B= Tokyo, RELEASE Ut fi
4 = Madrid (205-577) 1 THs DOCUMENT oar
_ . ce iN NT ‘
3 2 Mant eer Foe BewekesDUPL PATE VEIT gs
1 =-Foreten atai ; f FAG SOME 5 a
reign Liateon [pit (Route through for tevieia)’” WS
VREsgp y
Aq? 5 OMAR arnt; SECRET
: { dy 10582298 (Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo) SEW NOTE FAGE FOUR
\ db a oe
ar

“feng ie Ss

that Zloy Gutterres Henoyo. San Antonia file LOS-2115, Miami file $ Ie

Menoyo ta « defected Castro official uno is helng intere A,

Be

q

we

yp

| NW 50953 DocId:32336879 Page 2


a oe Fores 23

i = iy Ruenl

MED BEGRET | 3/15/61

1

4

Algs INFORMATION C7
HEREIN
EXCEPT
OTHERWISE

Ce
; 1 McLee IN FULL
fe airtel | AELEASE IN PART
Cl FOTAL Deng,

& Por sAGe> San Antonte ~ ated ine cs
|. ae peaaptece CLASSIFIED BY ue See ces

| DECLASSIFY OW: 25X_J ne
Proms Bireeters SBI (20594985) LO ih Wey
7

| | LING Bind=sey, ake co

LG Lian-siitts
! Lindsey Ling Yer EXEMP.
, “Sie = CH : D.

ee
} pe ue. Department of Air Paree by letter dated HY requeate
i thet Eloy Gutlerres Menoyo, San Antonio file 105-211, Miami fide
} LUG@2102, Buyile 105002200, be interviewed re captioned subjects

Menoyo is @ defected Castro official wha ia bving intere >
viewed by San Antonio Office. ie was repontedlyxa communist ard unile
elaint to be involved in anti-dastro activities with #ililam Horgan,
Caatre leader and soldier of fortune recently executed by Castro
governtent, Menoyo eetually betrayed a Dominican Repubdlie anti-Castro
plot to overthrow Castro. (wi

A i advised information was peceived from CIA that
Je

according ¢ noyo kad conteeted the
i captioned 3 at tn late Auguer, tyouy 1H to Mayvia, the Azoress
Air Force continued subject currently resides in Madrid where he
| wanages @ restaurant allegedly owned by cnother wnidentified Chinese
} uho reportedly has supplied clothing to Us Se personne? at Lojes Base
in the Agzovea. Subject is one of several Chinese suspected of using
\ business ventures a@ cover for espionage or other illegal activities.
\ Air Force advised further that CIA furnished inforsation thet ongy
Theodor Heing ¥iener, a buatness asseciate af the aubjects 8,

GIA HAS NO OBJECTION T Id i

DEC

i _ 2 = Tokya RE Pa MATION —_
: 2 = Madrid (205%575) iw THIS DOCUMEN uN, Wor RECORDED
| 2 - Peris (105eio5a) |S THIS DOCUMDNT. MAR; 17 196)

| ] = Miami B Ever Foe BesekesDUPLICATE VEIT

FUG aa
1 = Foreign Liateon Tpit tnouke ico fee f em -

ie? BOMARLE 1961-7 SEC RET”

~ 105~82298 (tloy Gutierrez Menoyo) Nore PAGE POUR

i
H

| HW 50953 DocId:32336879 Page 3 vt


| \Atwtel to SAC, San Antonio
Ree LING Lind-sey. aka
| (105494985)

arrested in the Azores December, 1958, on suspicion of espionage»

As of September, 1960,- Wienery,.according to CIA; was reported tobe

in Bermuda, where subject eventually intends_t o to explore Pheas
possibility of establishing, a‘restaurant. (2 : Peceess £160

Air Force has requested Menoyo' be’ questioned concerning
nature and extent.of his association with subject and other Chinese
for any informaiton which may disclose. eaptonage and/or other tllegal
activities affecting Air Fores interests. It was further requested
Menoyo*s possible association with Wiener also. be Caplored. 7M o>)

: : m4

By letter deted 1/11/6ly Legat,, Paris, furnished the
following informations classified "Secret," concerning the subject
which was received from the French Foreign Intelligence ond Countere
espionage Services 5 :

° Subject wae born 3/12/19 at Chekiangs Ching. His

~ wife is Sueshuei LING who arrived in Burope by air from

New York on 12/13/60. and proceedéd.to Madrid, Spain. His

New. Fork address, as of October, 1960, was in care of Michel

Berniers §14 Test 110th Streéty New York Citys : y
Subject has established «a clothing business in
Spains where he works on American beses. He is @ repre=
sentative of Lang Chong and Company, Custom Tatlora, Second
Floor, Oifwan Building, Lottingen Street, Hong Korige Lhe
subject ia in close business relations with Samuel On Hingechun
and both are membéra of a financial organization established
by the euthorities of People’s Bank at Shanghai for the purpose
of. obtaining capital of Chinese Living abroad and, channeling
these funds back into Chinde 'y

fhe subject is known to have heen in contact with

seerat base in the Azoress

Heing Theodor Wiener who reportedly was arrested iy vat

The Hong Kong firm, Long Chong end Company, is
reported to have established a bank eatabl ishment in
San Francisco during the ea¥ly part of 1960 known as-
Langéhong and Company, Bank of Canton, 555 Montgomery Streets
San Francisco 22, CaLtfornid. 7 @Q

Although there ig no apparent connect ton, it is interesting
to note that the name Michael Bernier, 514 West 1l0th Strect, New York
Citi, appears in the cage of Morman A» Sdiyed (Bufile 65-66 330) «
Saiyed clained that while working for Soviet intelligence in the 4)

eeCR™

ye. Vike

HW 50953 Docld:32336879 Page 4



i

|

|

vp
Qe merchants in Spain disclose’ they ere sending American dollars

i

ees ode

Airtel to SAC, San Antonto SECRET
Ree LING Lindsey,’ ake :
(20594985)

imited States, he wis used as a spatter and in this capacity spotted |
Bichael Bernier, $14 eat 110th Street, New York City. This informs |
tion wos furnished by CIA which has conducted extensive and penetrating
interview of Baiyed abroad, The information furnished by Saiyed hes

been discounted because he not only is an admitted fraudulent check
passer, but is ajgo a self-admitted fabricator of intelligence infor

matt Orbe ¢ uj

By letter dated B/23/6l, Leget, Madrid, furnished the
following information received from OST, classified "Secret," and
bearing the notation. “special handling required=-not réleasable to
foreign nationals? ie 6YXw :

lose monitorings of activities of certain Chinese

ey to Red China, The thinese merchant in Madrid, Lindsey Lings
has adnitted this and it is known that San On of Zaragoza hae
Ae beers sending Anerican dollars to Communist Chinds (es
begat; Paris, letter 2/27/61 furnished following information
received from French Woreign Intelliyence and Counterespi onage Services
classified "Seeret"s :

Heing Yheodor. Wiener, @ confederate of the subject,
ts apporeritly a German and reportedly wus agr sted on a
secret base in the Azores, December, 19584 y ae

LING who left New York and arrived,in Europe on
12/13/60, traveled via "Iberia dir Lines.'@)..°

San Antonio is instructed to promptly interview Menoye re
captioned subject as requested by Air Force and submit results without
Gelay in letterheod memorandum. fu) :

San Francisco should promptly subait eny information it has
obtained re Langchong and Company, Bank of Canton, 555 Montgomery Srechs )!
New York should promptly eubmit results of tia investigation
regarding Michael Bernier, aka, Michel Bernier, 5lé West 110th Street, i
New York City lh. Ut) :
begat, Fokyo, Broun submit reaulis of inguiries-re Lang
Chong and Companys Hong Kong 3 :

All offices should submit results of investigation in letters
head menorendums Furnish Bureau with nine copiese

SECRET

| NW 50953 DocId:32336879 Page 5
