# 124-10285-10054

## Page 1

124-10285-10054

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10285-10054

RECORD, SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 113-7-210-4039

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 07/05/1966

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

CC, ARMY OFFICERS, CUBAN EXILE, POLIT, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/26/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32304042 Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

ALICABD

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

NORMATION CO TAMER

DATES/ 13/29

BY 526F

SPENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This materind contains litorsation aif.

18, D.3.0. Seef. 703 aud 79%

Daptouage Laws, Title

Ma la probibited by is

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO. FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLSED DISSEM

COUNTRY

Cuba

*SUBIECT,

1,

2

Military + NAVAl MAHeORT NO

Activate

DAR CATE DISTR

Officers: Wio

Menbe

tho

sth

JUly

Movement

NO. PAGES

rances

Leading

Army

KEFERENCES

icers

CS DB-312/01870-58

5 July

1966

2

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ

Late April and mid-June.

1956

See belov

• CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP 6/13197

AS SANITIZED

FIELD REPORT NO

IMIS IS UNEVALUATED

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE,

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

See belown

France, Paris (21 June 1966)

Source, Para

(6)

Tormid-Jung

1965' a

loup of officers was

said

to be.

looking

for

"way

out"

(French,

portie!) for Cästro' Although: informed

of this project.

Castro is taking no action; while. following

the

affair closoly.

This. group

of members t

the doth of July Movement,

Cuban Có

(PCC) Central Committee menber

Trumber

Mana, Director

MationalP

and by

Service

Uniteg States (1l: June 1966)

Сива

Source, Para.

3/2:

prominent Odsan extie with

well detinea poli-,

tical ambitions;

source

is a fairly reliable reporter.

In addi

tion to maintaining, an unusually large number of

direct and

in-

direct. contacts

among Cuban exiles and influential Latin Americal.

nationals,,

he has

some contacts in Cuba::

Source. said that: he

tained this information from a governmental employee on the island

2

In late April 1968 Unrest

thin

e. FAR:was unquest:

nable, ano

Bilitar

ipaders:

Sergio de

a1 1€

Limenez,

and, Pedr

iret,

Aho have gained the respect

and adnira-

Elon t the troops

gave

the appearance

of supporting the régime

more out of loyalty:

than

of conviction:

.. These men

are devoted

to their military duties,

and:they follow the leader. or the cause

for which they

fought against. Batista

Co

minist ideology.

and Victor

menbers, are isolatec

is preoccupied

with his

job:in-the Havana

Psychiatrie formerly.

Hospitalgrand Bordon has been re-

legated to an unimportant post: 3

."÷

-R-E-T

STOREIGN DISSEM CONTTOLLED DISSEN

STATE

L, DIA

ARMY

=. ENAVY

AIR

NSA

CINCSO. F

NPIC OSA/DUS&T

(Note: Fletu distribution indidated by

OCR

1330

SEP 24 1F3

• XEROXED ORIGINAL-RETAIN

113-7-2.1

50953

DocId: 32304042

Page 2

---

## Page 3

285110054

-4139

FP

•2X-103

REC 6/13 - 7-210

S-T-O-R-D-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSUM 14eco:

CSD3-312/02320-56

ANIEL COUR

Headquarters Comments

Not CS-311/08789-66

pates a dentities other Army majors who are saul to me

contInuing etforts to. enganizera

rebellion; Miret and

Cásterlo were

not mentioned in'

the spanish service report

Castello.is reportedly an intimate friend of Faur

noton

Medievila / Minister t

Transportatien and laaier

13th of March Revolutionary: Directorate;

And 1055922104

which Casterto belonged

сива

2

Unlike Miret and dei. Varfe,

Almeida' is

not a PCC Central

Committee member; del Valle is a member of.the. Political

Bureau and. also.of

the Revolutionary Armed Forces-änd State

Security' Committee

of the: Central Committee of the PCC.

3.

TDOS-314/02675-66 contains Bordon's comments about ünrest

*do the FAR;

which,

"in histopinion, is'greater every day but

not pose

a current threat to the Castro

mutual distrust between officers, noncommissioned officeron

and enlistedi men: makeshany united

"impossible

is one oftnumerous. Arny

officers, whose arrest has beer re-

ported by

refugee. sources in the purge

which followed the

Cubelattrial.

CS-311/05970-66 and reports referenced therein

contain speculation on

"ther reasons behind the purge,

ing the possibility that the purge is directed

at members

of the 10th of March

Revolutionary Directorate.

An in

20ini 12.d

"Na date;

3-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLER YASEM

rainfo scientis sincer

HH 50953

DocId: 32304042

Page 3

---

