# 124-10212-10236

## Page 1

124-10212-10236

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10212-10236

RECORD SERIES: HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-339235-373

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, OT

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/04/1971

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

1A; 1B; 4

Redact

09/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC 2 LTR, S/S

v9.1

10933

10

DooId: 32293960

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OTT-4 (Reys 12-22-65)

To:

Title

SECRET

Date: June 4, 1971

Director, FBI

(Bufile: 100-339735)

Attention

A MODEL SHOWN

OGIEISSTIODG

INFORMATION CONTAINED

(

105-2499

)

Character

SUSAN HEILIGMAN

FRANK

IS-CH

Reference

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. ExCoOt the

Enclosed are the following communications received from the RCMP.](5)

BRACKETS

KP 10-10-97

Original and two copies RCMP letter, 5/20/71 with enclosure. SID |KSf

11-1-90 0JFK

Remarks:

Buairtel 11/13/70

bore the same 'caption.

I CHICO DEFICIAL, IN RED CHINA, FORMER

No record TANG Ming-chou this office.

The correspondence

of 3/27/69 mentioned is not Ottawa correspondence but rather

that. of the office.of Mr

mentioned in Para 3.

CLASSIFIED

5668 500/GCL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (0)(6)

Copy to be

siber fleet, I each encho)

Dissemination

(Para 4)

May be made as received

May be made as indicated by stamp on enclosure

112/2/094

Class

May not be made without further clearance with [RCMPJ(5)

y.

3o:

spsina sce

Following offices would be interested in receiving copies

of enclosures:

New York (100-43479)

Status with this office:

XX

RUC

Pending

Bureau (Encs.-6)

'ENCLOSI

1

New York

MLI:J1

(3)

56 JUN24 1971.

SECRED

Do not write in space below

32I295÷ 1295÷373

I JUN 2*1971

REC-14

ST-112

NT! SEC.

NH 50953 DocId: 32293960 Page 2

---

## Page 3

OTT -4 (Rev: 12-22-65)

SECRED

To:

, Director, FBI

(Bufile:

Attention

Date: June 4, 1971

(

ALI INTORMATION CONTAINED

HER

_M IS JICLASSIFTED

EXCAFT WHORE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

From: Legal Attache, Ottawa

Title

SUSAN HEILIGMAN FRANK

105-2499

Character

Reference

Enclosed are the following communications received from the RCMP: (>

Original and two copies RCMP letter, 5/20/71 with enclosure.

Remarks:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT, Excot thi

BRianis

KP 10-16-97

SLD/KSR

18-1-97

(JFK)

RCMP letter 10/30/70 forwardad to Bureau via Ottawa

girtel

aptioned. "RITA PHIPPS, MR. Lurnu) Lieuph

SUSAN

WINE (ph)Seta1 DORA TONG_ IS-CH."

Buairtel 11/13/70

bore the same caption.

No record TANG Ming-chou this office.

" The correspondence

of 3/27/69 mentioned is not Ottawa correspondence but rather

that of the office of Mr.

mentioned in Para 3.

Dissemination

(Para 4)

May be made as received

May be made as indicated by stamp on enclosure

May not be made without further clearance with RCMP (S)

CLASSIFIED BY 56685L0/GCL

PECLASSIFY ON: 25X CO

(K) 1/3/98

Classies

Declassify on MADE 22)

Following offices would be interested in receiving copies of enclosures:

New York (100-13479)

Status with this office:

Do not write in space below

RUC

Pending

3-Bureau (Encs. -6)

I New York

MLI :31

(3),

SECRETI

HH 50953 DooId: 32293960 Page 3

---

## Page 4

ALL CORRESPONDENCE TO

BE ADDRESSED:

THE COMMISSIONER

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

OTTAWA 7, CANADA

PRIÈRE D'ADDRESSER LES

LETTRES COMME SUIT:

LE COMMISSAIRE

GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU CANAÉ

OTTAWA 7, CANADA

HEADQUARTERS - DIRECTION GÉNÉRALE

VOUR 00103-2499

VOTRE

OUR NO.

D972-15-351

NOTRE N°

OTTAWA 7, CANADA

May 20, 1971.

SECRET

Mr. Moss Lee Innes,

c/o United States Embassy,

Ottawa, Ontario.

Dear Mr. Innes:

the attachment concernsa meeting at the New China

News Agercy, (NCNA) office, Ottawa on April 17, 1971 between

a Susan

WARREN of New York, and PU, Chao-min of the NONA.

103-2499, WARREN, is believed identical to Susan Heiligman

FRANK: of New dork.

TANG, Ming-chou is believed to be

identical to T'ANG, Ming

chou. an official of the reople'

In your correspondence of March™

30

copy lorwarded to Mr. Robert J. Jantzen.

4.

The attachment is forwarded for the information of

your Agency only.

It is

not to be disseminated without

prior authority

from the R.C.M.P., in which case the R.C.M.P.

is not to be identified as the source.

PRiA

Yours very truly,

IMI.R

20l lut

Assistant

Commissioner,

Director,

Security and Intelligence.

+06-337235-373

'ENCLOSURE

NH 50953 DoCIA:32293960 Page 1

---

## Page 5

SECRET

May 20, 1971.

WARREN arrived in far on went weed tsu

and met with New China News Agency representativé

Pu, Chao-min.

In conversation with PU, WARREN mentioned

that she had recently participated in

China on a New York radio programme.

a discussion concerning

3.

China in 1961 and had visited there for a year and a

half.

The trip we made possible through her close friend

PU enquired if WARREN.

had met Anna Lee SUNG (Anna Louise STRONG) while in China to

which. WARREN replied that she had although she "knew her from here

too".

PU made arrangements for WARREN to meet with representatives

of the People's Repúblic of China Mission in Ottawa. 48.

SECRET

+6-337835-373

'ENCLOSURE

NH 50953 DocId:32293960-Page 5

---

## Page 6

ALL CORRESPONDENCE TO

BE ADDRESSED:

THE COMMISSIONER

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

OTTAWA 7, CANADA

PRIÈRE D'ADDRESSER LES.

LETTRES COMMÉ SUIT:

LE COMMISSAIRE

GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU CANAÉ

OTTAWAY, CANADA

HEADQUARTERS - DIRECTION GÉNÉRALE

YOUR NO, 105-21,99

HOTRE N°

OUR NO.

NUT NON D972-15-351

OTTAWA 7, CANADA

May 20, 1971:

SECRET

Mr. Noss Lee innes,

c/o United states

Embassy,

Ottawa, Ontario.

Dear Mr. Innes:

The attachment concerns a meeting at the New China

News Agenoy (NONA) office, Ottawa on April 17, 1971 between

a Susan WARREN of New York, and PU, Chao-min of the NCYA.

2.

From our previous oxchange of correspondence with

your Agency, our report dated October 30, 1970 on your f1le

number 163-544-254 and your airtol of November 13, 1970 on

103-2499, WARREN is belleved identical to Susan Hell 1gnan

FRANK Of New York.

TANG, Ming-chou is bolleved to be

identical to TANG, Ming

i choul an official of the People's

Republic of Colna International Liaison Dept, as mentioned

in your correspondence of March 27, 1969 on H179/69.

Copy forwardod to Mr. Fobert J. Jantzen.

Too attachment 18 forwarded for the.information.of

your Agency only.

It is not to be disseminatod without

prior authority from the R.C.M.P., In which case the R.C.M.P.

is not to be identified as

the source

Yours very truly,

I•R. Farenty

Assistant Cormissioner,

Director,

Security and Intelligence.

NW 50953 DocId: 32293960 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

May 20, 1971.

i Apra. si, Lyn we Learned that e susan

VARREN arrived in Ottawa from New Jork via Eastern Airlines

and met with New China News, Agency representative PU, Chao-nin.

In conversation with PU,

WARhEN mentioned

that she had recently participated in a discussion concerning

China on a New York radio programme.

went on to state that she went to

China In 1961 and had visited there for a

fear and &

The trip was made possible through her close friend

LANG; Ning chou, whom Hu also knows.

Pl enquired if WARIEN

had met Anna Lee SUNG (Anne Louise SPRONG) while in China to

which WARREN replied thet she badgalthough she

• "knew her fron here

too". PU made arrangenents for WRIEN to meet with representatives

of the People's Republic of China Mission in Ottawa.

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId:32293960-Page -7

---

