124-90137-10080)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-90137-10080

HQ

CR 105-90409-9

Date:

4/16/201

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION =
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1
| NW 50953 Docla:32337314

Document Information

FBI
PAPICH
LALLIER

11/29/1960
1

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL.
MRS. MIRIAM NUFER NORWEB

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1A

Redact

09/28/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

MEMO

Page 1


jee

OPTIONAL FORM NO.

t Tolson
UNITED ST :

Mohr

He SUNT : arene 1 Parsons

erdrediinn a a
Memisranaum =
ql ET eerste
TO: RL 0. L'ALLIERY 7 pate: November 29, 1960 fas

Trotter
W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room :
Ingram
Gandy

i

[8 Fada fF
| Reference is made to memorandum dated November 14, -
1960, from Mr. Donahoe to Mr. Belmont. On November 28, 1960,

€ Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), advised the
7 aaison Agent that CIA's source of the original derogatory
information concerning the subject could not be made available
for testimony for at least six months. This situation arises

: 3/6,
From : S. d. PAPI! by
7 eclacalty ent
7 Seg

subject: MRS. MIRIAM NUFER NORWEB

because sou involved in a sensitive intelligence operation '
in_Guba. ‘dvised that at the end of six months CIA would
be in a much better position to resolve the source's availability
for testimony
ated that as a result of ‘the Bureau letter
dated No » 1960, CIA requested its office in Havana to
submit a status report concerning the matter. He indicated that

this would be handled in an expeditious manner
Aa iasnnnnnuOnni DONE nuennaomnen
ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the attention
of the Nationalities Intelligence Section. - ae

SJP: jas
(5) 4e° 1a- (0-47 ;
[* : A Zoe :
| 7 - ue RELEAS i se,
~ Dunn . K
i Ls Lanison THIS TE)» ;
i 1 - Papich K
|
: Sy’ a, anal E
‘ MATION CONTAINED il /o So Fa,/.
bE co 3B UNCLASSIFTED EXCEPT & 7 Ay y
i" WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE. 1s 7 /
| 8 DEC 2 1960

E1a*
| SL DEC? 1960

HW 50953 DocId:32337314 Page 2
