124-10221-10229)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
*PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10221-10229

HQ

105-72630-3

Document Information

FBI
SAC, SJ
DIRECTOR, FBI

08/27/1958
9

PDL, ASSOC, PILOT, CASTRO, FIDEL, TRA, FLIGHT PLAN,
DESTINATION, RCK.

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1A; 1B

Redact

06/03/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA .

INC 6 S/S, MEMO

val

HW 50953 Docid:32340836 Page 1


‘at

ij PFDs 8B Rev, 12-13-58),
_ Pom ve

i
a: \
rile i y
ah iS L {
£ s “ Hl
FBI i
i
Date; 8/27/' 58 I
Transmit the following in AIRTEL :
(Type in plain text or code)
Via CIA HAS NORGE TO

E

ve

mkt it.

TO:
FROM: SAN JUAN (205-new)
SUBJECT: PEDRO wurs Braz. Fane
RENALDOS BLANCG “HERNANDEZ 3
ALBERTS # USED MOTENA /
: ts -
fi
gommunication marked "Secret" dated 5S oa
H & R Sectim, “f 7)

ceived the following. in-
‘ion from a usually ‘reliable source. Information
is prefaced with the following statement: "In view of
the sensitive means through which we acquired it, it
is requested that the FBI no action which might
compromise our source. "DX

Communication states that PEDRO LUIS DIAZ
LANZ, also known as PEDRO LUIS DIAZ, a Cuban born .
November 8, 1926 at Havana, 1s a-pilot, courier, and
possible agent for FIDEL CASTRO. DIAZ is reportedly
associated with REINALDO BLANCO HERNANDEZ and ALBERTO
EUSEBIO MOJENA who-are Cubans and not further identified.
Jamaican police believe that these thre dividuals
operate from Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. TANG)

DIAZ passed through Palisades
Kingston, Jamaica, on May 5, 1958. On July 17, 1958,

DIAZ arrived at the Palisades Airport, piloting a Cessna
aircraft, #M5213D with, BLANCO asa passenger,

‘Th

vy iz se ip a

=e

az €

S

Special Agent in-Charge &

HW 50953 DocId:32340836 Page 2

