124-10264-10174

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10284-10171
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 105-83720-1
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FRO! BARRON, JOHN R.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: = 12/31/1959 5
PAGES : 18
SUBJECTS :
EPE, INTV, ARVIER, MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL, AKA,
EMP, RES, ASSOC, POLIT, INTEL ACT
DOCUMENT TYPE: = PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1B; 4
CURRENT TUS:  Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/03/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF INS, CIA
COMMENTS : REFERRED TO INS

9.1

HW 52333 DocId:32303659 Page 1


7 : : : :
(feces {

i
F°D-263-iRev. %-3+

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

"12/31/53 | 10/9 - 12/28/59

|REPORTING OFFICE,

DEE,
HTITLE OF CASE eee SOHN R, BARRON ae mare
( MARIA JO; CHARACTER OF CASE B ae.
| aka Mari.
| &Mendizabal' a INTERNAL SEOURITY -
‘ REGQUSERABION AGT - Hol ;
§ i
# {
REFERENCES: Butel to Miami, Octobe mre ~1S ae |
Miami Letter to Direc: © A, 1G59.7. Shs if j

Miami report of SA JOHN R, BARON, November 23, 1959, °
captioned: - UNSUBS; MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ - VICTIM,
KEDNAPPING ~ CONSPIRACY (But Le 79452). °

: Pog
oe BY ai _copiog cade ay ed |
DECLASGIFY ON: 25% oe eee : “056, Pesan. es
Se review a’ insist -

BESTE BIg 7 SE
UEST OF BUREAU le, SAM T2I9O EXS |
fhe Bureau is vaquested to refer instant 2 :
matter to the Department for decision veg: a4
subject's activities while employed as a ent
ex-Venezuelan president MARCOS PEREZ J! aa
regarding her admission that {she furnis: at]
to ALBERTO BAYO, JR.» descriped in instan ee 3.i
concerning information obtaihed during : \ a. |
There exists a possible vioJation of th: ace

Act, over which. this Bureau has. juriadict 7 ¢ de

; ‘SPECIAL AGENT ~
= 0a ae",

renare oa

ae (33) - Bureau ft) DECLASSIFICATIO

ee RELEASE OF CfA IAFDRMATION eee
8 & = o5-26 253 NTH COOUMENT. [ey 7 | Bee Be

~ Go EStt into Meet ges y . ; aie

1 ~ 62-11817 Fs ; i

pcuauuaneanenne i_- INS, WN kK SN 7 4
OPES DESTROYED No.” ani1e33008) “ie AVE
: 4 ~ Miami (2 - 97-3003 4° | :
SwhaReP TS aad, 1~ 109-39 |

A E200)

HW 52333 DocId:32303659 Page 2



’

AR MEAMT, FLORIDA

Will report the decision rendered by the
Department.

ATMINISTRATIVE

Information copies have been furnished the
New York Office, inssmuch as the subject of this
investigation was formerly employed as a secretary
to ex-Venezuelan president MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ, whom
the New York Office is currently investigating.

fhis inves ation 13 being placed in a
pending inactive status, pending departmental decision
concerning the subject's activities while she was
enployed as a secretary to ex-Venezuelan president
MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ.

fhe Bureau is advised that investigation
appearing in this repert conducted prior to October 9,
1959, was made concerning the subject inasmuch as she
was suspected of plotting against MAROGOS PEREZ JIMENEZ
to arrange his abduction, the details of which have
been reported in refersnce Miami report dated November 23,
1959 (Bufile 7-9452).

MM €-2, utilized in the details of this
report was interviewed by Special Agents JOBN R.
BARRON and WILLIAM B, HOLLOMAN, [at which time she
identified herself as]a GIA informant in Havana ©
and stated that she was employed as a secretary to]

BAYO, IR: QD)

The Bureau is advised that all informants

familiar with Latin American activities were contacted,

and no information was received Indicating that the
subject was active in Cuban intelligence activities.

B.
- COVER PAGE -

SECRET

 SEsSESESESESSUEESESEassSeataseeOaess

HW 52333 DocId:32303659 Page 3


MM 97-300 BECREN

The interviews appearing in this report with
MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ, Dr. CARLOS SISO, and the subject.
appear on SP 648 and FD 3028 in original form in
Miami case file 7-475, captioned: "UNSUBS; MARCOS PEREZ
JIMENEZ - VICTIM; KIDNAPPING - CONSPIRACY (Bufile 7-9452).

INFORMANTS
IDENTITY - LOCATION OF ORIGINAL
mM T-1 is (cra, Havana, Cal
rat 118 fg A, Bevana,) )

in Butel to Miami dated
October 9, 1959 T-4T5~9

Instant report, page 7.

MM T-3 is JANET SUMMERS,

District Manager's Clerk,

Southern Bell Telephone

and Telegraph Company,

Miami Beach, Florida ‘

(nature of information) Instant report, page 12.

Careful consideration has been given to each
Source concealed in this report, and they were con-
cealed only 1n those instances where identities must
be concealed.

C*
- COVER PAGE -

SECREY

NesssEgESsssEESEsSEaESE assssstsbststsnsestit

HW 52333 DocId:32303659 Page 4


y a. +P D207 (Rev. 3-3-59) a ae ‘ ae

oe : = “
fe : UNITis) STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUS=/3E
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRER

Copyte: 1 ~ INS, New York (RM)
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Report of SA JOHN R, BARRON _DEGLASSIFICATION ANDAR Miami
Dae’ December 31, 1959 RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

THIS DOCUMENT,

Field Office File # 97-300 Bae DOCUMENT, ReneKETS. 7-952 109-283
: eT IM Gas -GT :

Tie: = MARIA JOSEFA MENDEZ ARVEER spp |ks/¢

TAN CONTATRED
igp

Chee: INFERNAL SECURTEY - CUBA
REGISTRATION ACE’- CUBA i:

Synopsis Subject, .MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL ARVIER, born Noventber 26,
J916-in Cuba; Intiigration and Naturalization Service Alien”
Registration No, A-11039008. (While émployed in Miami.
Beach, Florida as secretary to.MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ, ex~-
Venezuelan president, reported by MMT-1 to be ‘plant and
furnishing infermation to ALBERTO BAYO, JR. regarding the

activities of PEREZ JIMENEZ. MM°T-1 described BAYO as

bet active in intelligence matters for the Cubsn’ govern~
cS Cae interviewed and admitted association with —

BAYOT vw) ny he :
Ws Iie. :
- pe
AILS act BY 5068 Sup fae
acme DECLASSIFY ON: 28X z

This investigation 1s predicated on information
furnished by Mi f-1, a United States government agency -
which conducts intelligence ‘investigations, which ‘advised
on October 9, 1959 that the subject, "Nene" MENDIZABAL, ‘_

was in contact with ALBERTO BAYO, JR.; deseribed by ©)

| MM T-1 as being engaged in intelligence ° activity for the i
Cuban government; (u) : : weita

SUBJECE!S TMMAGRATION AND NATURALIZATION STATUS

: On October 9 and 30, 1959, the files of the : mA
District office, Immigration and Naturalization Service

(INS), New York City, were caused to be reviewed ‘by SA
WILLIAM D, MEEHAN and reflected that, on Nevember 2, 1956;

| one MARTA MENDIZABAL, 411-039-008, date of birth

November 26, 1916, in Havana, Cuba, filed an “Application
for Immigration Visa and Alien Registration" at the :

‘This document contains neither recomméHdations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the, property of the FBI and is loanei. to

“your agency; it and its contents are not to PORE. your agency.
\" ead all

\

b E 4

HW 52333 DocId:32303659 Page 5


Cia O

Of 97-300 See ere

American Embassy, Havana, Cuba...

In this application MARTA MENDIZABAL furnished
her place of birth as: Cieba del agus, Havana, Cuba, and
clainied that she was lmown by no other: nantes. Her
occupation was furnished ss that of sffice clerk, and
her last permanent addzess ‘as “Avenue 19 Nuniber 8203,
e/84., Marianac, Havana, Cuba". Her destination and
address in the United States wers furnished care of the
Latina Shipping Company, ‘Limited,s 111. Wall street,

New York City, but this was crossed through dn ink,

and the address: 321 Rast 43ré Street, New York 17,

New York, was marked in; . She possessed Cuban’ Passport
Nuuber 21566, issued September 26, 1955, by the Cuban
Ministry of State at Havana, Cuba, valid until September 20,
1957. She was deseribed as: follows:

>
Race : :. Waite (Cuban)
Sex Female —
Height _ _. & feet 5 inches
Weight, ’ “120. pounds
Hair : , Brown
Eyes ice Erown
Complexion ~

Marital Status
Minor children.

rs )

She claimed: further in. this application’ that
she had previously: applied for and was granted visas to
enter the United: States’ during’1952 and 1956, but the
dates of her previous sojour to the United: States
were not furnished. : iy E

. MARIA MENDIZABAL. submitted in support of
this application a copy of her Certificate of Birth,
Petition for Divorce, and a document attesting that
she had no arrest resord in Guba, all of which were

~2s

SECREt

HW 52333 DocId:32303659 Page 6


MM 97-300

SECRET:

bs!
in the Spanish lariguage.

Her filg also contained an affidavit submitted

by one EDUARDO GONZALEZ, 45 Fifth Avenue, New York
wy Gity, an American citizen, who was bo: 2.

It was set out that GONZALEZ was the Président and sole

owner of the Latina Shipping Company, 111 Wall Street;

New York City, and was desirous of bringing MENDIZABAL

to the United States to work for the above company.

The degree of relationship existing between GONZALEZ

and MENDIZABAL was not set forth.

MARIA MENDIZABAL was granted an 0-1 Visa,
Number 5686, and arrived in the United States at Miami,
Florida, on February 20, 1957. ‘This was the only arrival
or departure contained in the INS, New York records,

A search of the Alien Address Report Cards
maintained at INS, New York, failed to reflect any
record of MENDIZABAL for the years of 1958, and 1959.

RESULTS OF INVESTIGATION

MM T-1, on October 9, 1959, advised that

MARIA MENDIZABAL, also known as "Nene" MENDIZABAL,
emp1lo; as "a secretary of ex-Venezuslan president...
MARCO: g at Miami. orida,
attempted to contact ALBERTO REVUELPA in Havana, at
Havana telephone : 29-5233, on October 9, 1959. MM T-1 S
advised that ALBER’ ‘Ais identical with ALBERTO | “f
Tees who, according to MM T-1, is engaged in

elligence activities for the Gyhan government. MM T-1
believed that the subject was a plant and was furnish-
ing information to BAYO, JR. regarding the activities
of PEREZ oO

u :
Prior to i of the above information
as furnished by MM T-1 on October 9, 1959, the following

=3-

SECRED

wd

‘APPRO)

Oita

HW 52333 DocId:32303659 Page 7


MM 97-300

O
MM T-2, [on October 24, 1959

ALBERTO BAYO, JR.» Gixector ef Aly Pum
Havana, Cuba, revealed fin early sug
MENDIZABAL, subssquentry identira:
MENDIZABAL ARVIER, was sent ona x tission to
! Miami, and that in fifteen days, re would be an
announcement in the press aboul PEREZ JIMENEZ. MM 7-2
advised that he observed the subject Gn the office of
ALBERTO BAYO, FR, on ti Lone](S)

The following information was obtained in

connection with investigation concerning another matters

On October 29, 1959, MAREA JOSEVA MENDIZABAL
ARVIER was interviewed at Miami, Florida, by Special
Agents CHARLES W. EDMISTON and JOHN R, ‘BARRON.

MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL ARVIER, 1951 Park
Avenue, Apartment 11, Miam Beach, Florida, after being

mi, MarclLanae,
G9] that "“Nene'(S)
Bane JOSEFA °

advised of her right to be represented by counsel, that
anything she might say could be use agesinst her in a
court of law, sa ea that she was born on November 26,
1916, at Havana, Guha.

MENDIZABAL stated that she arrived in the
United States on August 15, 1959, aboard Cubana Airlines,
‘ which departed Havana, Cuba, at. approximately $230 p.m.
on August 15, 1959. She stated that upon her arrival
at the Miami International Airport, she was wet by Dr.
CARLOS SISO. and INES DAVILA, ad well as a friend of Br.
SISO, introduced to her as CARLO: OOo fir

MENDIZABAL advised that prior to her arrival
in Miami, shé had received a letter from INES DAVILA
in the early part of August, 1959, wherein DAVILA
advised her that; PEREZ JIMENEZ, ex-Venezualan
President, was seeking the services of a reliable and
competent secretary. She stated DAVILA in her letter
to her asked 4f she would be interested in this position
to which she subsequently replied that she would accept
the position as secretary to PEREZ JIMENEZ, as she was
heavily in debt in Guba. ee oy,

-T~

SECRET

= ai

HW 52333 DocId:32303659 Page 8
