# 124-10350-10116

## Page 1

124-10350-10116

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10350-10116

HQ

CR 105-63729-15

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE: 09/12/1961

PAGES:

15

SUBJECTS :

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: RPT

19.1

HH 50953

11

DocId: 32316674

Page 1'

---

## Page 2

RJD: mgw/egh

MM 105-4383

SECRET

2) Will maintain antact with MM-639-S concerning

subject's activities.

3) Will contact MM-492-S, former Assistant Chief

of the Department of Investigations

in the Cuban National

Police, concerning his knowledge of the subject.

4) Will locate and interview Miss BERRY ALBERTSON,

5925 Northeast 6th Avenue, and her friend, Miss SALLY HOY,

concerning subject's activities and any statements he might

have made concerning being a representative of the United

States Government.

ADMINISTRATIVE

One copy of this j report is designated for Phila-

delphia for information inasmuch as there are outstanding

leads in this division.

During interview of Mr. KEITH WADE, subject ap-

peared and said he understood the FBI was investigating him.

He voluntarily furnished information set forth in instant

report.

Subject advised that KATHLEEN ANN BERNS was the

victim of a vicious rape attack on August 25, 1961, at

which time she was taken to a hospital, is in poor physical

condition, and is extremely nervous from this experience?/

and the following police interrogation.

In view of her physical condition, and the fact

that she is living with the subject, she was not interviewed.

The interview of subject on July 24, 1961, was

handled under the caption "GEORGE DAMAN, IMPERSONATION"

which was subsequently closed administratively.

At that time

a search of the indices failed to reveal the existence of

the Neutrality Matter, Impersonation case under his correct

name.

B.

•COVER PAGE -

NH 50953 DocId: 32316674 Page 2

---

## Page 3

RJD :mgw :egh

MM* 105-4383

INFORMANTS.

SECRET

Location/of Original Information

Identity

MM T-1 is

D(S)

CIA, Miami, Florida

MM T-2 is MM-639-S

134-238

Careful consideration has been given to the sources

mentioned in this report and I symbols were utilized only in

those instances where it was necessary to conceal the identi-

ties of the sources.

- COVER PAGE

SEXIET

Mile

NH 50953

DooId: 32316674

Page

3"

---

