# 124-90143-10211

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/10/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90143-10211

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-370750-49

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LA

TO : HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 11/20/1944

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

---

## Page 2

4

Horm No1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

LOS ANGELES

TITLE:

PORN BOWARD LAWSON

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

LOS ANGELES

DATE WI

MADE

11/20/Wi

FILE NO.

100-21196

PERIOD FOR

8/392

WHICH MADE

2/220:

22,24.

10/12,13

11/1/Wa

NAH CA THAT MEN CH

REPORY MADE BY

JOHN RO VICARS

CHARACTER DE CAGE

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

AM

SYNOPSIS OF FAC

Subies attanded the LiA. Co. CPA Executive Conmittes meeting at home of

AR, So. President, Communist Political Assnes

Sapt. 3, 19l4, and

birthday perty for WENTER Sept. 24, 1944%

He tostified under oath-before,

the Cal. Legislaturels Joint Fect-Pinding

Comnittoo on Un-Ameriona activis

tros that he had never been a member ot

the Commist Party,

USA, or CPA.

sonywood riters moba ration to investigato this Comittee as a rostit

oneynear ago subsect spokesman for Hollywood Damocratio Committeo in

meetings held to decide the political fate of Hay

USELES, exposed Ku KIux

in nomber running for Congress from the 15th Congressional Distrist.

Subject is a pendidato for Executive Board, Scroon Writers Guild, and was

instrumental in having LESTER COLD withdrew as candidate for Prosident,

Soreen Writors Guilds

9 52 2528520/nd-P- ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

REBORENCES

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATES -101

Bureau file. 100-24499

4B 414S 38(002

Report of Special Agent JOr R. VICARS deted September 29, 19ll.

DERATLS

Subjeot 1s, a Communist loy figure in the. Los Angeles Field Division.

COUMUNIST ACTIVITIES

Dur as the period of this report, subdeas has

blos in the Communist Political Association.

cont

71

OVED AND A

FORWARDED:

CORES PETRO REPORAC

5/BURGAU

1 NEw YORK (INP.)

3 LOS ANGELES

NW#: 45838

COPIES DESTROYED

MAN 23 1963

Doard: 32338792

---

## Page 3

12,

LA 100-21198

CONFPENTIAL

other forces might center their attack on him, undoubtedly referring to

the anti-Communist forces in the Guild. LAWSON also feared he might have

to withdraw as a candidate for the Executive Board on the same ground, al-

though he indicated that he was anxious to be a member of the Board.

This

same Guild Bulletin reflects that LAWSON is also a member of the Concilia-

tion Committee of the Screen Writers Guild.

MOTION PICTURE WORK

The motion picture "COUNTER-ATTACK" which LAWSON scripted, is

now in production, and has been for approximately one month. According to

SOURCE A, LAWSON is still busy on this picture, and on its completion will

take approximately

a ten week vacation.

к и)

SOURCE A advisod that, recontly, LEE SABINSON, who originally pro-

duced "COUNTER-ATTACK" as a logitimate drama,

asked LAWSON to script the

play "FREEDOM ROAD", written by HOWARD FOSI.

SABINSON stated that both he,

SABINSON, and FOST, were anxious for LAWSON to do this work. LAWSON told SABINSON,

according to SOURCE A, that he could not do it, because he was under contract to

Columbia Studios, although he would like to do so, because he believed that this

was

Post's best worked

It is to be further noted that the writers of the drama entitled

"COUNTER-ATTACK", which was produced in New York some time ago, were JANel

and PHILIP STEVENSON, both of whom are now reported by COMPIDENTIAL SOURCE Eur

to be members of the Northwest Section, Los Angeles County. Communist Politi-

cal Association, having been recently transferred to this section from New

York.

A mail cover is being placed on subject.

CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE E advised Special Agent ERWIN P. HAIR that

subject's bank account in the California Bank has not been active recently.

The last deposit was $500.00 in May, 1944, and the balance there now is

$1700.00. Subject's bank account at the Bank of America, Hollywood Main

Offico, continues active, with regular weekly deposits of $850.95.

The only

pertinent check noted was one dated September 27, 1944, for $500.00 to REX

INGRAM, Negro actor, who, according to SOURCE E, is a member of Club F,

Northwest, Section.

check was cashed by INGRAM. It is interesting to

note that CONFIDENTIAL NATIONAL DEFENSE INFORMANT L.A. 2896 advised, on

October 5, I94h, that at the last Board meeting of the Council for Civio Unity,

REX INGRAM donated $500.00. This meeting was held prior to October 5, 1944.

Thế Council for Civic Unity was reportedly instigated by the Hollywood Democratic

Committee.

- PENDING.

- 8-

CONFPENTIAD

2: -1

NW#: 45838

Docid: 32338792

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIA

LA 100-21198

CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES

fits

SOURCE Ca

38-2 KU)

SOURCE Es CINDI I•10, 5-2900

SOURCE F: CNDI L.A. 78

The Confidential National Defense informants above listed have been given

tomporary symbols to further protect their identities.

CONTENTIAL"

-10-

do 1á 110

NW#: 45838

DocId: 32338792

---

