# 124-90084-10013

## Page 1

124-90084-10013

JFK Assassinatio: System

Identification Form

Agency Information

• Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES: HQ

FBI

124-90084-10013

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-151578-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 01/23/1967

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA

VICTOR ANTONIO JOSE DELG/DO AGULAR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

Secret

1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

NW 45778

DocId: 32329032

Page 1

6_

---

## Page 2

UNITED STATES GO eNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI: (105-151578)

TO

•FROM-

SUBJECT:

DATE: 1/23/67

CIA HAS NO-OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFGATION AND/OR;

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMIATION

VICTOR ANTONIO JOSE, DEIGADO AGUIAR

IN THIS DOCUMENT. ExCopt thE

CHILE

(00: NY) •

13-97

CLASSIFIED Y 5068 S20/KS

K 10-9-97

ReNylet to Bureau,

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies of an

LHM; dated and

captioned as above

The subject was not in erviewed until 1/9/67,

inasmuch as he had moved from hi: previously known address

and was on a three week vacation in Florida over the holiday

• season.

During the interview

the subject claimed he knew

nothing of any kind of meeting, conference. in santiagos

chile, white he was there in Febuary,

1966, He said that

he did not attend such meetings and also that he was very

pro-United States.

it appears that the in'ormation in the original

allegation in this matter from ClA to the effect that VICTOR

DELGADO, with re entry permit nunber 9245, was present at:

Communist, Youth Congress in Santiago. Chile. was nrobabl

I inasmuch as this subject on 'intervie

stated he displayed his travel papers to no other person's.

It is also noted, that he had a visitors visa

to enter Chile. which was probably the case of

the delegates

and observers to the Communist Youth Congress

All sources; who know the subject advised during

this investigation that he, although

unactive,

is, antin

CASTRO;

he"desires to become a United

citizen.

Bureau (ENCI.

ENCLOSURE, (RM):

EX 108 g

New York

16

' &

Copy: to: CIA/State/

•TOJAN 24119671

CNE/081/ACS

Buy U.S. Savings BondsiRegularly on the Payroll Savings

REVERSE SIDE: FOR

DISSERNATION.

NH 45778 DocId: 32329032 Page 2

---

