# 124-90158-10064

## Page 1

124-90158-10064

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90158-10064

HQ

CR 109-584-5444

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

Document Information

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

CIA

HQ

DATE: 11/15/1976

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LUIS POSADA

CUBAN EXILE ACTIVISTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

IT 50953

DocId: 32340407

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Capture

1503/716

SECRET •

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

15 NOV 1976

CMEMORANDUM FOR:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

(JFK)

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

:

Intelligence Division

List of Cuban Exile Activists Obtained

thel

GIA HAS NO OBJECTION

DECLASSISICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION BRACKETS

4-15-9

det,

tradiatinities-

Information on the U.S. persons whose names appear on

the attached document was obtained incidental to collection

of information on terrorist activities.

The following information may not be released to

toreign nationals, contractors, or contractor/consultants.

The extraction and dissemination of the information is

controlled by the originator.

It is requested that no

action be taken regarding it without prior approval of

this office.

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXTR

KP 2-9-98

Weren

dater

Possibly

Involved in Terrorism."

The source of that information, who

is a sensitive usually reliable reporter, has subsequently

provided the attached list of Cuban exile activists which

accompanies ontart end the

The arrows and other

markings on the document were apparently added by thel

office.

is being made.

No additional dissemination of the above information

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS

REC-86

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINER

HEREIAL IS UNCL

DE-39

DATE XI

ST. 114

George

CIOL -0.386=76

(JFIN)

ATTACHMENT :

1,

as

above

T. Kalaris

NOV 24 1976

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

for review at rey?"

AND METHODS INVOLVED:

sheg. of

5 DEC 1 4 1976

0/22/2-

WN 50951

DocId: 32340407 Page

SECRET®

CLASSIFIED BY

064737

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF E. Q. 30032 XEMPICS CATECORY:

§ 56611. 2

131 0r i:i datoes tar it more)

AUTOMATICAALY DECLASSIHCE ON

IMPDET

(unless imposaible, insaid dale do event)

AMERICAN

1776-1976

THINNIEN

---

