# 124-10220-10310

## Page 1

124-10220-10310

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10220-10310

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 113-7-210-1449, 1450

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, NO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 10/26/1962

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT:

MILITARY AND NAVAL MATTERS, FB, ASSOC, EMP, CONSPR, MILITIA,

BOMB, VERTIENTES-CAMAGUEY MILL

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

06/10/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(A)

COMMENTS:

INC TTY

HH 50953

DocId: 32298034 Page 1

---

## Page 2

5-9-98

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 S10/SR

ECLASSIFY ON: 25X

1-41 TP.ev. 10-16-62)

• 0

DECODED COPY

Radio

DECIASSTFIRD BY

ON 4/5/85

79 S

130p

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper®

Callahan

Conrad

De Loach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

suflivan

avel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

URGENT

10-27-62

ALL INFORIN

HEREIN IS UNL

1:23 AM

MON ONTAINED

ASSIFIED

CST

SONFIBAITIAK

SECRET

∞ Teletype

JC

CIA HAS ND OBJECTION TO

DECLASURCATION ARD/OR, AU

FROM SAC NEW ORLEANS

JER, 270558

2S DOCUMENT 0LCE707

TR ThE bRACKETS

S CONTAINED

-FERNANDEZ, CUBAN REFUGEE AND FORMER RESIDENT

FOR OVER

SOF VERTIENTES, CUBA WHO DEPARTED CUBA

SEPTEMPER 19, 1962 AND WOSE RELTARILITY IS NOT INDUNATEST

(4)

WHO WAS ACCOMPANIED TO NEW ORLEANS OFFICE BY FRANI

FORMER PRESIDENT OF CONSOLIDATED RALLROADS OF CUBA.

FURNISHED

AS FOLLOWS:

INFORMATION RE CUBAN MATTERS 'N PAST, ADVISED TODAY

94384881 SON-TGIME

- DATE OF REVION 10/22

MARTINEZ ALLEGES FEMALE RESIDENT NEAR

TRÍNIDAD, CUBA

PORTED THAT APPROXIMATELY 3,000 RUSSIANS DISEMBARKED AT PLAY

CASILDA, CUBA DURING MIDDLE OF AUGUST LAST AND AS OF SEPTEMBER

LAST WERE RESIDING IN TENT CITY AT PLAYA CASILDA. GROUP AL-

LEGEDLY POSSESS TRUCKS AND

EX-100

REC-LERY PIECES. 44218-14.5

MARTINEZ STATES

THAT

SOURCE WHO

3-

AS MEMBER OF "RESCATE"

CEPT

(CUBAN UNDERGROUND GROUP) ADVISED HIM IN AUGUST LAST THAT THERES

ARE APPROXIMATELY 2,500 RUSSIANS ENCAMPED AT CAMAGUEY COUNTRY

SSI

ACLUB LOCATED ABOUT FOUR MILES EAST OF CAMAGUEY AND ONE MILE

S

HIGHWAY, AND ONLY RUSSIANS CAN ENTER THIS AREAS

INHABITANTS OF CAMAGUEY SUSPECT ROCKET BASE BEING CONSTRUCTEDE

lid.

-THERE IN VIEW OF LARGE AMOUNT OF CEMENT TRUCKS AND BUILDING

MATERIAL ENTERING AREA. CLAIMS THESE RUSSIANS ALLEGEDLY AR

ERIVED PORT OF NUEVITAS CUBA BEGINNING OF AUGUST LAST. Q

1...

O read

disspaination p-27-47

pete: 859013

COPY

WHERE

L. For+4903

NOW A 1962

DIA

AES/

V3.

Joyler

If the intelligence conrained, in the aboue me age is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that in earl

NH 50953

D001d: 32296034

Page 2

---

