# 124-10230-10461

## Page 1

124-10230-10461

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

11/21/20

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10230-10461

MX

105-3702-45

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MX

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/29/1963

2

SEE FBI 105-82555-384

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/10/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

V94

7H 52333

DocId:32179751

Page 1

---

## Page 2

F0-36 TRev. 12-13-56)

CIA HAS NO ORJECTION TO

DECI

•N AND/OR,

INFORMATION

Via

MAN SECRET,

1FK

11/29/63

9803 RDD/KSR

4.28-83181893

(Type in plain text or code)

NO.:

79L BY :

X PROBIN

comi

CApR

224,860

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

BUFILE ONE ZERO FIVE DASH EIGHT TWO FIVE FIVE FIVE.

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, IS DASH R.

Classifier

REMYCAB NOVEMBER TWO EIGHT LAST.

TUNE DIATELY FOLLOWING RECRIPT OF AUTHORIZATIONICKA HERE JANE

xu)

GILBERTO ALVARADE UGARTS AVAILABLE TO MEXICAN MINISTRY OF

1427

GOBERNACION PAREN INTERIOR PAREN YESTERDAY AFTERNOON. ALVARADO

10

PRESENTLY IN CUSTODY OF MEXICAN AUTHORITIES AND BEING INTERROGATED.

HE APPARENTLY HAS STUCK TO HIS STORY UP UNTIL NOW BUT INTERROGATION

CONTINUING.

CIA ADVISES THAT LUIS ECHEVERRIA, ACTING MINISTER OF

CONGRACION, COMMED TASTE OUT TAO STORY qUOTE

FASCINATING UNQUOTE

*ри)

SILVIA DURAN RELEASED BY MEXICANS SIX PM YESTERDAY BUT

REPORTEDLY CONTINUES TO BE UNDER HEAVY SURVEILLANCE AND SUBJECT TO

BEING REARRESTED. RESULTS OF HER. INTERROGATION, NOT

YST

RECINED

All. INPONIATION OOSITAINIE

BUT UNDERSTOOD SHE GAVE NO NEW INFORMATION.

WEREIN IS UNCLASSIPID EXP

PRESS HERE ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT MEXICAN GOVERNMENT HAD

REJECTED CUBAN DIPLOMATIC NOTE WHICH PROTESTED ARREST OF DURAN BY

MEXICAN AUTHORITIES ON NOVEMBER TWO THREE LAST. REJECTION STATED

05-3202-4

TO BE BASED ON NATURE OF LANGUAGE USED BY CUBANS IN THSIR NOTS.

105-3702

1=

89-6

O01,2

CDA: p1b

Approved:

iDA

TRITITTIED.

SEGRETUP

Per

Spetial Agent in Charge

5g

NH 52333

DocId: 32179751 Page 2

---

## Page 3

*FD-3F(Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI.

SECRET

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

- PAGE TWO (105-3702) _

CIA STATION CHIEF ADVISED TODAY THAT

OF NICARAGUAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE IS ARRIVING

(5)

MEXICO CITY TODAY TO BE AVAILABLE TO ASSIST MEXICANS IN

INTERROGATION OF ALVARADO IF SUCH ASSISTANCE DESIRED.

THIS MORNING AMBASSADOR MANN EXPRESSED TO US HIS GREAT

PLEASURE AT AUTHORIZATION GIVENFOR CIAN

CO MAKE ALVARADO AVAILABLE

TO MEXICANS. HE STATED HE. FELT THIS WAS ONLY WAY TO RESOLVE

QUESTION OF VERACITY OF ALVARADO'S STORY.

IN VIEW. OF FACT THAT ALVARADO'S INTERROGATION BY MEXICANS IS

CONTINUING IT IS BELIEVED THAT SUBMISSION OF DETAILED MEMO COVERING

INVESTIGATION TO DATE IN MEXICO SHOULD BE HELD IN ABEYANCE UNTIL

FINAL RESULTS OF INTERROGATION OF ALVARADO AVAILABLE. UACB THIS

WILL BE DONE.

1-728%

Approved:

SECRET

Sent

_ M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NH 52333 DocId: 32179751 Page 3

---

