# 124-10190-10078_9

## Page 1

124-10190-10078

1.009e 197

•4'y

151-90413

(103))

14X:01L

o4/111,

anitars.

HOYALE G. 31

and r ilet, C

COMMITTI

INTERSTAILAN

COURSEND LONED 48 SCIS

SUDCOMMITTFE IN COMMUNICATIONS

AND FOWER

ouse of Representatives

Washington, A.E. 20515

Walters.

Mohir -

Mishop —

Sir. Casper -

Mr. Callahan -

Mr. Conradi -

Mr. Fell

Mr. Cale

Attorney General John N. Mitchell

Department of Justice

Constitution Avenue

Washington, D.C.

20530

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

January 8, 1970

OFFICE OF TI

RECEIVEL

JAN 1 2 1976

ATTORNEY CENERA

Mr. Soyars -

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy

Enclosed is a photocopy of an article which was published.'

by the Denver Post on December

28, 1969.

I have been

requested by the Denver Post and friends of DI. Riha,

who is

à constituent of mine, to do everything possible

to assist in either locating

the Professor or in determin-

ing additional facts about his disappearance.

It seems to me that the interest of the nation in general

and the credibility of the FBI in particular is not well

served by the proliferation of a belief that Professor Riha

is the victim of some kind of international intrique, if

such is not the case.

nel without the

0267°

express

Despite the implications found in the Denver Post article,

I think it is quite possible that Professor Riha left

nation pitsi, your Committerar:

In this spirit I last week asked

* FEDERAL BU. OF INY. 1719)

the FBIlto provide me,

either formally or informally, with a report on what the

Ethé

This document is prepared in feiponse to

Bureau has done to locate Professor Rihat! I waRNin@ waANinD$970

Last friday that, aside from a file of inquiries made in

Professor Riha's behalf, the Bureau has not, looked into

125

the matter and is not conducting inquiries

ATTORNEY GELS

the

I so india one !!

Denver Post 2!

FEDERAL

Ma. OF iNk

However, in the course of similar

federal agencies, (

to

other

uncuthorized person

our replest and is not for dissemi-

ofe xin, wroreedings by

105-75556

IT JAN 19 1970

---

