# 124-90158-10056

## Page 1

124-90158-10056

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-90158-10056

HQ

CR 109-12-210-7116

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

TO :

CIA

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 11/01/1976

PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS :

LUIS POSADA

CUBANA AIRLINE CRASH

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: CABLE

v9.1

NH 50953

DooId: 32340399

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ELLIGENC

CENTRAL

Intelligence Information Cabie

• ROUTINE.

IN 085155

WARNING NOTICE

PAGE 1 OF 4 PAGES

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

DIRECTORATE OF

OPERATIONS

SECRET

STATE/INR

ICS/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCE SWS

NSA TREAS NSC/S SDO

NIO CRS

(SY/I/PIB)

Classified

hy

led Reporting Officer.

SS/ED 40

FBI

SECUR

General Declossification Schedufer c

AUTOO A DOMS RePRIECTION TO

Category SB (1)

Impossible to Determine Date of

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND ÜSE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECIATE: OF CIA INFORMATION

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END. OF REPOIN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCGOT

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

CITE TDFIR DB - 315/10912-760

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

"Political MateRs- Cuba

DIST

1 NOVEMBER 1976

REPORT CLASS SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS- -NOT RELEASABLE

TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS-- DISSEMINATION AND

EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED

BY ORIGINATOR

ADM. MARLINGS

COUNTRY CUBA/VENEZUELA

ALL FBI INFORMATION CON ME

HEROIN IS UNGLASZIMES

DOl 28 OCTOBER 1976

DATES.

945V SP 8 MACKSR

JFK)

SUBJECT COMMENTS OF CUBAN EMBASSY OFFICIALS IN VENEZUELA ON

ast

PERSONS DETAINED BY VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES IN CONNECTION

WITH THE CUBANA AIRLINE CRASH

1-13

ACQ

VENEZUELA, CARACAS (30 0C59:158 DE°70

148 REC-52, n9 - 12

- FIELD NO. EVO-

SOURCE A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WITH CLOSE CONTACTS IN BUSINESS,

GOVERNMENT, POLITICAL AND DIPLOMATIC CIRCLES. HIS

RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED.

LS NOV II 197S

1. ON 28 OCTOBER 1976 OFFICIALS OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY -IN...

CARACAS, VENEZUELA, SAID THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF CUBA (GOC) IS

WAITING TO SEE WHAT THE VENEZUELANS ARE GOING TO DO WITH THE INDI-

5

VIDUALS UNDER DETENTION IN CONNECTION WITH THE 6 OCTOBER CRASH OF A

CUBANA AIRLINER

GUBAN

EMBASSY HAS AS YET RECEIVED NO CADa

3

INSTMARIONS EROGAVANA, AND THE CUBAN OFFICIALS PREDICTED THAT CHE

• SECRET

190

lassionion

NN 50953 Docid: 32340399 Page 2

5

---

## Page 3

Editions

DO ENDIN DHEN BAND

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

90158-10056

IN 085155

TDFIR DB- 315/10912-76

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

RECFURTHERY DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT

• SECRETLLITO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

(olasn/loatton)

(dissem controlo)

GOC WOULD NOT: MAKE

'A FIRM DECISION UNTIL 2 NOVEMBER, SINCE THE

COURT'S FINDINGS ARE DUE FOR PRESENTATION ON 1 NOVEMBER. (FIELD

COMMENT: ON 29 OCTOBER THE LOCAL PRESS INDICATED THAT THE COURT'S

DECISION WOULD BE MADE DURING THE WEEK OF 1 NOVEMBER.)

2.

THE CUBAN OFFICIALS, HOWEVER, SAID THAT THEY BELIEVE THAT

ORLANDOE O SCH, LUISP O SADA, HERVAN I CARDO, AND VeN

FREDDY/L U GO, THE FOUR DETAINEES, WOULD/BE RELEASED BY THE

VENEZUELANS. DAVIDAM O RA

L'E

S BELLO, A LEADER OF THE DEMO-

CRATIC ACTION PARTY (AD), THE CUBANS SAID, WANTS THE FOUR MEN RE-

LEASED. ONE OF MORALES' 'LAW ASSOCIATES IS, A GOOD FRIEND OF JUDGE

DELTA!

E

ST A BA, WHO IS HEARING THE CASE, AND MORALES' REQUEST

FOR THE RELEASE OF THE FOUR IS BEING MADE VIA THIS LAW ASSOCIATE.

(SOURCE COMMENT: THE CUBANS DID NOT ELABORATE ON THE REASON

MORALES WANTED THE MEN RELEASED, NOR DID THEY IDENTIFY THE LAW

ASSOCLATE.)

3. BOSCH, THE CUBANS SAID, WOULD PROBABLY BE TURNED OVER TO

UNITED STATES AUTHORITIES. SHOULD BOSCH BE FLOWN OUT OF VENEZUELA

VIA PANAMA, THE CUBANS SAID, THE GOC WOULD TAKE BÖSCH OFF THE PLANE

IN PANAMA REGARDLESS OF WHICH AIRLINE IS USED TO TRANSPORT HIM.

IN ANY EVENT, THE CUBAN OFFICIALS INSISTED THAT, IF THE FOUR MEN

WERE RELEASED, THEY WOULD BE KILLED. THE CUBANS SAID THAT THE

& SECRET

(ficeston)

(dissem control.

NN 50953 DocId: 32340399 Page 3

5

---

## Page 4

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVI

/ INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

VOLVED

IN 085155

TDFIR DB- 315/10912-76

PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT

• SECRET TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

(OlaselMontion)

- (118sem controla

VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT, THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, AND THE

CUBAN EXILES ALL HAVE REASON TO WISH THE FOUR DEAD AS A MEANS OF

KEEPING THEM QUIET. THE CUBAN OFFICIALS SAID THAT THE CUBAN

GOVERNMENT INTENDED TO KILL THEM, UNLESS ANOTHER GROUP DID IT

FIRST. THE CUBANS SAID THAT NO MATTER WHICH GROUP ACTUALLY

CARRIED OUT THE ASSASSINATIONS, EVERYONE WOULD BELIEVE THE CUBANS

WERE RESPONSIBLE. THE FOUR MEN, THE CUBANS SAID, MUST PAY FOR

THEIR ACTIONS BECAUSE, SHOULD THEY GO FREE, OTHER INDIVIDUALS OR

GROUPS WOULD BE ENCOURAGED TO ATTACK CUBANS ANYWHERE. (FIELD

COMMENT: FOR AN EARLIER REPORT ON CUBA'S INTENTIONS TOWARDS THOSE

IMPLICATED IN THE CUBANA CRASH SEE

7522, TDFIRDB-315/10534-76,

OF 21 OCTOBER, FROM THE SAME SOURCE.)

4. WHILE THE OFFICIAL CUBAN COMMUNITY IN CARACAS HAS ALWAYS

BEEN CAUTIOUS, SINCE THE CUBANA ATTACK THEIR PRECAUTIONS HAVE BEEN

INCREASED. THE CUBAN OFFICIALS, INCLUDING THE AMBASSADOR, CURRENTLY

CARRY TWO PISTOLS AT ALL TIMES. A LARGE CALIBER PISTOL IS CARRIED

IN MEN'S PURSES, WHICH ARE FASHIONABLE IN CARACAS. A SMALLER

CALIBER PISTOL IS CARRIED IN THEIR BELTS.

5. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACAS: SENT TO PANAMA

5

4

CITY, CINCSO (J-2 ONLY)

REPORT CLASS-SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

• SECRET

fatasem controls)

5

---

## Page 5

7-7a

Editions

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

90158-10056

IN 085155

TDMR DB-315/10912-76

PAGE 4 OF 4 PAGES

• SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT

TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

(classification)

AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS - - NOT

RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS. DISSEMINATION

AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR. CLASSIFIED

RY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2.

5

5

4

3

2

1

• SECRET

---

