# 124-90074-10003

## Page 1

1124-90074-10003-

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/19/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90074-10003

HQ

CR 105-107224-14

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

MM

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 02/26/1962

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL

JORGE ALONSO PUJOL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

NH 50953

D001d: 32328378

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

9

OPTIONAL FORM

10

460eм N- 10

JNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-100984)

SECRET

3333

TO

NO DATSI

2/26/62

MAS NO ORJECTION TO

ALAESIRICATION AND/OR,

Sing

ISAC, MIAMI (105-5147) (P)

SUBJECT:

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL

ALL INFORMATION CONTAISD- CUBA

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCUSES WEREND SHOWN

OOZERNISE

BELGAGI CA LIA INFORMATION

N THS ROGUMENT. EXCEpT FOR thi

RACKETS

oN pg.4

place-Cre. boKP1-23-98

165-87908

On 2/5/62, MM 791-S furnished information

(Fat 10)

concerning a report

which is circulating in Miami and

may also be circulating in other parts of the U. S.

OSEI

Translator SOPHIE Y. SALIBA translated the reportes

from Spanish to English. Epformant's report stated he

was furnishing a printed document which is allegedly a

document containing secret details regarding the inter-

(u)

vention of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in the

invasion of the Bay of Pigs on 4/17/6ia It also concernst

MAT:ON

the organization of the Cuban' Revolutionary Council and

certain dispositions by the American Government.

A few days before the assembly at Punta Del

SUD/KSR

4-2.

8/21/97

CLASSIFIED BY S668 S4

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

talked with ANITA AIZCORBE DE CARBO. She stated she had

very high hopes for the successful outcome of the efforts

Of DI. GUILLERMO ALONSOPUJOL, who had gone to Cuba to

further discuss the exchange of tractors for prisoners

under the pretext of going to see his son, who was F(A

among those ill with hepatitis. An epidemic of hepatitis

was reported among the prisoners Exon the Bay of pigs invasion.

Bureau (RM)

105-107224-14

- Miami

(2-105-5147)

050135-601 Sub A) T05-100984

105-4334)

ENCINS

- 62-3573):

ELS: pIm

(E)

Classifier

Exempt fro

Date of Deut

REC- 24

80 MAR 1. 1962

cgory.

2

stinite

410

80T-X3

NAT.

AND COPY

COPY

SECRET

WW SOSA

& voclat123

2328378

Page-2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

MM 105-5147

Mrs. CARBO stated some firm, informant believed it was

Fiat, had given two million dollars, and it was going to

be possible to secure the twenty-eight million dollars

worth of tractors to be sent to Cuba according to CASTRO's

specifications; however, it this failed, she understood

that Dr. ALONSO PUJOL intended to blackmail the U. S.

Government; that is, if the U. S. did not want to give

the money which was necessary, a document could be turned

over

to some person who would read same at the assembly

in Punta Del Este, and the U. S. would be obliged to

furnish the money

for the tractors E(4)

Informant noted, of course, that no such

document was read at Punta Del Este, but he stated

DI. ALONSO PUJOL did go from Miami to Panama, from Panama

to Cuba, and from Cuba back to Panama. MM 791-S stated

he thought DI. PUJOL might have made the above statements

to Mrs. CARBO, perhaps to encourage her or to make her

believe that the tractors for prisoners exchange is not a

dead issue. L

ULISES/CARBO is the husband of ANITA/AIZCORBE DE.

CARBO, and is one of the prisoners taken during the 4/17/61

Invasion effort, EGalU)

CuBA

Subsequent to the conversation with ANITA Fi dI

CARBO, and after having received several reports regarding

the developing anti-American feelings of Dr. ALONSO PUJOL,

informant saw the document, which is enclosd herewith, and

thought there might be some connection between the

conversation of DI. ALONSO PUJOL and Mrs. CARBO on the one

hand, and instant document on the other flU)

20

HH 50953\ DooId: 32328378 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

MM 105-5147

Informant noted that only a very intelligent

person could have written the report; the person who furnished

the memorandum or information about Mr. BENDER of the CIA

is someone who was in contact with important persons in

the U.

¿ DE. PEDRO MARTINEZ FRAGA is a close friend of

PUJOLLA

a(u)

FLA

MM 191-S stated that Dr. JOSE MANUEL CORTINA IS

a very good friend of pujol, and he and puJoL have the same H

Bay of Pigs invasive effort.Ef

opinion garding the rolà play the i. So in the

Informant stated DE. GUSTAVO CURVE RUBIe waS not

FCA

involved in the preparation of this document,

as. he is a

personal friend of PUJOL, but he is also a real friend of

the U. S., and would have had no part in prepring this

document.

He further stated that Dr. SUAREZARIVAS,

a

former Cuban Senator, would have had no part in the

preparation of this document, as he is not interested in

antagonizing or slandering the U. S., and further, has been

very occupied with personal family problems for the past

three months.

3(U)

MI. FRANGISCO JAVIERY CABALLERO, CO-owner of the l CA

Pasajero Funeral Home, and a well known person, arrived infr

Havana about 2/3/62.

He is acquainted with the activities

of ALONSO PUJOL in Havana. He stated ALONSO PUJOL was seen

several times in the same

car with BLAS ROCA, well-known

Cuban Communist Party leader. The son of ALONSO PUJOL was

out of prison, and spent at

least two days and two nights

going around with ALONSO PUJOL, and he also visited BLAS

POCA.

further, the son, whose name is JORGE ALONSO RUJOL,

was allowed to go to the aiport to say farewell to his

father when he departed from Cuba.

3.

SECKEN

NW 50953 DocId:32328378 Page 4

---

## Page 5

-=

MM 105-5147

Informant concluded there is some direct and

indirect evidence that Dr. ALONSO PUJOL is the author of

the document

SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR., contactedl

local representative of CIA, and was advised CIA learned

of the document and its contents prior to its release,

sometime in 11/61. CIA investigated after its rebase,

and

ascertained it was written by the purported signer, Dr. PEDRO

a member or the Wban Revolutionary

Council. Mr.

VARTINEZ FRAGA, who waSkated at first about 90 copies of

the document were released to a limited list of persons,

upon authrity of Dr. JOSE MIRO CARDONA, head of the Cuban

Revolutionary Council. Mr.L

stated it is now

estimated that about 150 copies have been released.

It

is noted that the copy furnished by MM 791-S to the Miami

Office is mimeographed and would, of course, therefore, be

indicative that other copies were made, and

that as a

matter of fact, a stencil

was cut with

the intention of

running off more copies.

CIA believes this document may possibly have

been prepared as a political power play designed to

promote the formation of a Cuban Government in Exile;

however, if this was the original intention, the idea is not

now being pushed.

и)

Since CIA is already aware of this document, and

of its circulation and contents, no copy is being furnished

CIA locally, nor is any designated for them on a circulation

basis; however, three copies of the translation of the

document are enclosed herewith, in the event the Bureau

should desire to furnish a copy to any other agency of

the government. E

478(1)

(5)

4.

ORK.

SECRET

NY 50953 DocId: 32328378 Page 5

---

