# 124-10348-10080

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/9/2018

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10348-10080

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-9-1418

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: LA

TITLE :

DATE: 11/19/1963

PAGES:

68

SUBJECTS :

CIP, BOOK, X MARKS THE SPOT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT, OTHER NON-TEXTUAL

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: PHOTOSTAT COPIES, INC MEMO, BOOK

v9.1

---

## Page 2

SAC, Los Angeles (92-738)

* REG- 10%

Director, FBI

62-9-9-1418

ACTIVITINS OF TOP HOODLUNS

IN THE CHICACO AREA

11/19/63

Reurmeno 11/7/63.

The bools submitted by you entitled "y marks the

Spot," has been revieved and discloses interesting historical

information relating to gang activities in the Chicago area.

This material is being placed in the Bureau's files as a

future source of reference.

There is no intornation

available indicating that this material is of unique value

other than for historical infozzation and, in view of this,

it will not be necessary to submit additional copies to the

Buxeau.

1 - Chicago

NOTE: LA submitted a photographic copy of a book entitled

"X Marks the Spot," copywrited 1930 by the Spot Publishing

Company. (A PCI gained possession of a copy of this material

through a relative,

who in turn obtained it from a Chicago

friend connected with the rackets.

This story was supposedly

written in 1930 by a reporter who allegedly was killed after

being warned by the mob to discontinue publication.

mon to disc

were reportedly printed before the author's death.

Six copies

This book contains considerable detail as to the

history of racketeering in Chicago, dating back to the promise

days and is being placed in file for referenter ar dates bacte

material has limited interest inasmuch as material dates

33 years and there is no indication that it possesses

aby

unique value or is in any way a rare document.

(5)

Tolson

Belmont

Mohry.

Casper

Callchan

Contad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale!

Rosen

Sullivan

Tovel

Trotte

MAILED 25 Miy

ALK 1 9 1965

COMM-FBI

TEL

TYPE UNIT

NW 45760

DocId: 32288838

Page 2

---

