# 124-10163-10134

## Page 1

124-10163-10134

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDEA NFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10163-10134

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-109060-3942

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PLANS

TO: . DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/04/1964

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT:

JFK, ASSISTANCE, SUSPECT, RIDDERSTRALE, KARL-ERIK, ALBRECHT,

ADOLPHJAY, ABERG, CHARLOTTE, NAME CHECK

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Secret

CLASSIFICATION:

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/24/1997

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

INCLUDES SEARCH SLIPS

NH 50953

DoeId:32167657

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Fore mans

6754

FAFPARI#

CIVIL AOZ.

12339

БА 1-11-8949

DATA,

Per CiA letter

9/23

MEMORANDUM FOR:

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

Da

BLa 6/281-77

DEC 1964

THIS SPOCHILEN

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMAT

DECLASSIFICATION ANDZOR

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM

SUBJECT

: Deputy director dos planeta

₴

Adolph Jay,

ALBRECHT

Classified

Nectassiry on: OARR

1.

1V

Adolph Jay ALBRECHT, born 15 June 1926 In ew Jersey, 1s

ani: industrial advertising copywriter currently residing in

Stockholm, Sweden•

The holder of U.S. passport No. D 294080,

issued 18 AprIT T963 at New York City, Subject served with the

United States Navy from about 1947 to

only two weeks, however.

1955, on active duty fOr

As of November 1963 Subject said. he

was employed by the Andersson and Lembke Advertising Agency

14

Luntmakargaten 95, Stockholm.

On 29 November 1963 Subject, of his own volition,

visited the American Embassy in Stockholm and asked to speak

with the embassy "security officer." He was interviewed by

5) Subject said that a former

girlfriend, Charlotte) ABERG (Swedish citizen, born_ca. 1943)

told him that kart- HeINODERSTRALE (Swedish citizen,

35

24 September 1922),

le drunk on 15 November 1963, predicted

le 7-77-3314-0336

38661 23V

that within

two weeks President KENNEDY would be assassinated

while on a trip among his own people. Following the assassination

Charlotte was upset and called

. ALBRECHT on 27 November 1963 to

inform him of RIDDERSTRALE's statement made while he was visiting

Charlotte and her mother on 15 November. \ Charlotte described

RIDDERSTRALE as normally quiet and refined. and one of her

mother's suitors.

According to Subject, RiDDERSTRALE, though

wealthy and a member of Swedish nobility, is a left winger and

strong supporter of Fidel CASTRO.

#62-109060-3942

3.

Through Subject,

arrangements were made for Charlotte

ABERG to be interviewed at the American Embassy on 4 December 1963.

Charlotte related substantially the same story as did Subject,

with minor contradictions.

She said RIDDERSTRALE's comments-

were made about ten days before the assassination and that he

80J

had not given a two-week deadline; he merely said,

"soon," 4

She said she knew nothing about RIDDERSTRALE's background.

DEG 75 1904

11100

Charlotte was

advised to report the foregoing to Swedish

authorities.

Following an interview with'$wedish police

officials.

Charlotte returned to the American Embassy an' 9 December

• 1963.

No Investigation Conducted by FBI

Pertnent to your inquiry.

Secretl

This is the result of a re* st for an

SEE.

69

JAN Quer 1965 7 is: to ba

SECRET

clearor.c.

NO F7N7P4

NH

50953

DocId:32167657

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECHET

He could not explain such an expression since he could not Seret!

remember having said anything like it.

He knew nothing

whatever beforehand about the murder of the President.

The files of this Agency contain no recorded identi-

fiable traces on ALBRECHT, ABERG, or RIDDERSTRALE.

• This office would appreciate receiving any pertinent

intormation your Bureau's files may contain on the subiect, cleared,

where possible, for passins to

early reply would be appreciatea.

(S)An

8. The information contained in paragraphs 1 through 3,

above;

was given to the Legal Attache in London during early

December 1963.

CSCI-316/02509-64

-3-

Боков

SECRET

WH 50953 DocId: 32167657

Pade 3

---

