# 124-90135-10040

## Page 1

124-90135-100407

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90135-10040

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-82298-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 09/24/1962

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

PUBLIO MIGUEL

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

LHM

v9.1

NH 50959 DocId: 32336645

17

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

RE:: PUBLIO MIGUEL de la CONCEPCION RUIZ MEDINA

RUIZ was inforned he had been demoted to Private

by order of RAUL CASTRO and was ordered to report to a

labor battalion In the Minas Del Frio region.

RUIZ

tricked the Sergeant into letting him go by promising.

him an apartment in one of the exclusive sections of Havana.

With the aid ofl

BRUIZ

was given asylutt in the Argentine Embassy in Havana.

He

Iemained there until October 26, 1961, when the Cuban

government granted him safe conduct.

Source stated that

RUIZ failed to account for his activities between January,

1961, when GUTIERREZ MENOYO and his group fled to the

United States ad May, 1961, when he entered the Argentine

Embassy.

MM T-1 described RUIZ as being an alert intelli

gent and resourceful young

man who was born December &s

1937 at Cardenas, Cubad

U)

Street, Miami, Florida.

Investigation at 1450 SW 4th Street, Miami,

revealed

that RUiz was unknown to

the residents at that

address.

On September 10, 1962, PUBLIO MIGUEL de la

CONCEPCION RUIZ MEDINA, CommOnly KnOwn aS PUBLIO RUIZ,

was interviewed at the Miami Office of the FBI and

furnished the following information:

RUIZ stated he was very happy to cooperate with

the United States Government in any way possible and

especially if it could in any way help in the ultimate

overthrow of the present government in Cuba. RUIZ stated

he resides at 202 Nw. 60th Court, Miami, Florida, telephone

666 9712 and that until recently he had resided

at 2820

SW 3Id Avenue, Apartment #9, Miami, Florida. RUIZ stated

he is unemployed. He has Alien Registration Number

A12496423.

SECRET

3

NH 50953 DocId: 32336645 Page 2

---

