# 124-90066-10048

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2018

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90066-10048

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3960-75

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 06/16/1964

PAGES: 10

SUBJECTS :

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE:

on 5/11/64, AL 3050-PC advised that during the prior

week at Aqueduct Race Track, the informant met JOIE KAUFMAN.

The informant stated that KAUFMAN advised him that he had a

fight with his wife and hit her during the incident.

KAUFMAN

advised the informant that she threatened to go to the police

and since he was afraid the police might come to the house

on her complaint, he had to get a gun and "other stuff"

which would involve others, out of the house, so it would

not be found if the police appeared at his residence.

KAUFMAN

told the informant that he put the gun and "other stuff" in a

'friend's apartment.

He stated that KAUFMAN did not identify the

"other stuff"

or "the others who would be involved" or the

apartment in which the "stuff and gun" were relocated.

Since

the aforementioned information does not specify that this

involved the subject, this information has not been included

in the details of the report.

In the event additional information is developed to

further clarify this situation, appropriate steps will be taken

to forward any pertinent information to the NYCPD.

INFORMANTS :

Identity of Source-

Contacted By

NY T-1

Mr. ROBERT DEVINE,

Attorney, NY, NY

SAS FREDERICK W. KUHLMAN and

GEORGE S. TEMPRO

(By request)

NY T-2

US Deputy Marshal

WILLIAM GALLINARO, EDNY

SAS EUGENE J. HINDES and

FREDERICK W. KUHLMAN

COVER PAGE

- B -

DocId: 32327806 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-1108

INFORMANTS Cont'

Identity of Source

NY T-3

NY 4336-C-TE

Contacted By

NY T-4

NY 4402-PC•

NY T-5

NY 4003-C-TE

NY I-6

NY 204-C

SAS PAUL G. DURKIN and.

PATRICK J. HERLIHY

SA LEONARD H. MC COY

SA JAMES M. MC ANDREW.

SA PAUL G. DURKIN

LEADS :

...

MIAMI

At Miami, Fla.

Will conduct appropriate credit, criminal and indices

checks on

SEBASTIAN DI PIETRO, 365 Northeast 88th St., MM, Fla.

NEWAPK

At Newark, NJ.

Will determine the registrant of NJ registration EWw592

and conduct appropriate credit, criminal and Indices checks.

NEW YORK

At New York, NY

*1. Will continue to follow the current prosecution

• of the subject on Income Tax Matters.

2. Will maintain contact with appropriate informants

relative to the subject's activities.

COVER PAGE

-C-

DocId: 32327806 Page 3

---

## Page 4

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAC, New York (92-1108)

Director,

FBI

(92-39601 - 944

6/4/64

SA VATORS CO, alka

OSCUISSIFIEO BYS 648-SLD/GEE

ON 6/21.95

(SEK)

ReNYlet 5/25/64•

*.•[;

Enclosed is one copy each of the following communications

captioned, "Pacheco Petroleum Company: "

Legat Havana letter to

Bureau 6/21/55 enclosing a blind memorandum also dated 6/21/55 and

Director's letter to Nr. Dennis A. Flins, Director, Office of

Security, Department of State, Washington, D. C., dated 7/4/55.

• It is believed that the latter communication is identical

with the letter, referred to by AUSA Charles Stillman, Southern District

of New York. Source T-l referred to is HAV-ll, formerly NYC-25-

Criminal Informant, who is Albert Nathan101 SchapiroS)New York f1les (u)

should contain considerable background on this individual. It is

noted that Schapiro voluntarily left the United States and tools

residence in Cuba in 1947, following an Immigration and Naturalization

Service deportation hearing, which was occasioned by the state

Department withdrawal of Schapiro's passport based on a consideration

that he had been born in poland, rather than in the United States as

he claimed.

During recent years, Schapiro has resided in Paris, France,

and was last known to be under indictment for an undetermined crime

in Switzerland.

no longer in contact with this Bureau, and whose exact current

whereabouts are not known.

MAILED 3.

Enclosures (3)

JUN 4 - 1964

GOMM-EBN

44326

Claccifien

Destassily on: 04

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

TJE: erw

(4)

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

T'ole. Room

Holmes

JUN TO 1964

MAIL. ROOM

DocId: 32327806

Page 4

30/23

2L ON CON

MC

A/f/

TELETYPE UNIT L

189

OTHERWISE

---

