124-10264-10084)

JFK Assassination System: Date: 6/9/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10281-10084

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 2-1804-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: SAC,MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/14/1963
“PAGES: 5

SUBJECTS :
GN, BKG, ASSOC, BABUN, TEOFILO, BABUN, SANTIAGO,
ACA, BOAT, WEAPONS, SEIZED, MM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: — 1A; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/05/1998 ae

OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : INC LHM

v9.1 2
RW 50953 DocId:32302364 Page 1



he casi ;
this

" :
A‘letter in
mation refle

HW 50953 DocId:32302364 Page 2


\

halieererstcyir ta x GF
| (/ 3° = = UNITED STATES GO" ‘NMENT : aa ‘ /,
Memoranaum ~
To 7 Director, FBI (2-1804)- DATE:
arergagyee A
« che UG 1 a 1963
PROM: rales AC, Miami (2-347) (c) Wntse dle # ae
Ys SUBJECT: CHANGED a :
alfes TEOFELO BABUN, aka. ;
alte, ac on Tofe“Babin, Tofe Babun se e INFORMA LOW COREE
gS CuBE BERRLN IU gsi rt
Becteney ef ual EIcers ‘Shoat’
onuanise }” ay

The title of this case is being changed to

‘eflect the correct name of subject, TEOFILO-BABUN, as

i disclosed by contact with GEORGE NOBREGAS and Mii 873-s,
io are personally acquainted with subject.

Reference Bureau letter April 30, 1963.

Enclosed herewith are 12 copies of a LHM
dated and captioned as above.

Copies of the. LHM are being made available BS
locally to CIA, ONI, G-2, INS, OSI, Border Patrol, Customs,
Coast Guard and State Department,.Coordinator of Cuban
Affairs.

Aly

(Cas bomg

MM T-1 is MM 873-S, contacted by SA LEMAN L.
STAFFORD, Jr. on August 2, 1963. :

The Bureau is referred to Bureau file 2-1680,
Miami file 2-307, in the case captioned "BABUN and Company:
NEUTRALITY MATTERS." A letter in this file dated April

cet {hse
of Cure :

a N 26, 1961 contains information reflecting the following:
Mass On April 16, 1961, MM 492-S advised that a 7
“Hag large former Navy ship owned by SANTIAGO BABUN was
LENG located near Pier 3ly.Miami, with two .50 calibre machine- .
2S e\ guns on the rear ofaths boat. The informant advised :
SEA De ee : oor} oe 7
a Ps
me 8g C2 Bureau_CEnclsy’ 12) @M)/ 5, / 10-9
(OR Rg US - Miaid (1-2-327) : ( / ee
- i
YU: can
TFL)

SBI yA

HW 50953 DocId:32302364 Page 3


MM 2-347 5 SEtOET
Res i
that a cannon was being placed on the front of the boat

and that it would be used by anti-CASTRO forces.

es contact by the Miami Office with
Mr. be CIA at Miami, disclosed thafS
this boat,” » a former. Navy patrol craft, was

being used by srerest and that CIA had an

n
&

operational interest.

: It is noted that contact with Customs has
disclosed that the vessel which was seized by them on
March 31, 1963, with arms aboard at Miami, is PC 1140,
No further investigation is being conducted in this ce
matter at this time. Should any additional pertinent ieee
information be obtained relative to activities of TEOFILO, :
or his brother SANTIAGO BABUN, the Bureau will be advised.

oy es

‘i ‘
PEVIEWED BY Brak TASK FORCE

\ " 7AM
f > RELEASE IW FULL

zi : Cy RELEASE tN PART fag
| te Co TOTAL DENIAL

brane
i)
og
=
3
s)
fe)
Bey

|
|
|
: |

HW 50953 DocId:32302364 Page 4

