AGENCY INFORMATION =

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: — 124-10218-10067
RECORD SERIES: HO | ,
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-2173-137

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG. CAR
TO: DIRECTOR. FBI
TITLE:

DATE: 10/22/1976

PAGES: 3
SUBJECT: CUBANA AIRLINER, BOMBING, SUSPECTS, OBA, LPO, ARRESTED

DOCUMENT TYPE: — PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW _DATE: — 05/12/1998 UPDATE _DATE:
STATUS  Redact ‘
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
JFK Act 6 (1(C)
JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HW 50953 DocId:32296791 Page 1


FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION ~~ ee
CPMUNICATIONS SECTION

oF ; * 96T.22/ 1876".

P 2217302 OCT 76

POS gu et
DIRECTOR PRIORITY Sod

v CIA HAS NO ‘OBJECTI
Bt DECLASSIFIGATIO
RELEASE OF CIA INF
a) Ts ala

y Adm. Serv.
Ext. Affairs

See
Legal Coun: i
Plan & Insp. — |

OCTOBER §, 1976,

RO

CRLANDO BOSCH AVILA, AKA - FUGITIVE; PV; IS - CIBA

| font igs 150K EH 00°: MM

CHILBOM; PFO - MURDER; EID G@UFILE 165-789 4fCAR FILE 174-8)

“REBUTEL OCTOBER 21, 1976, CAPTIONED "CHILBOM." \
, : p KN
BY TELETYPE OF OCTOBER 16, 1976, LEGaT REPQATED ARRESTS IN YX \t
ee mm ln
ZUELA_OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, Lul CaRRILES, AND OTHERS 3” a!
S Ax
CTION WITH CUBANA AIRL INES ~
I> \
Ss
fen
Peter POINTED TO IMPLICATION NOT ONLY
IN CUBANA CRASH BUT ALSO (OUS KIDNAPIRG GUFILE 105-2977493
ie uct 28 1976
CARFILE 145-246), aND DEATH OF APPEARED IN 2
aan CLASS. & SAL aaa Pe aaa
END GE ONE b “
END PAGE Ob Ea y BEEE
f Bae wy
ALL INFORMATION conraines BOP REVIEWER, . grae
lWERein ts UNCLASSIFIED 74 [7 Es
mEPT WHERE : i
3
S

i

HW 50953 DocId:32296791 Page 2


a i ~

: al 7
PAGE Two fear ose. ise ine) CRET dECRET ;

OCP OBER 16, 197535 ISSUE OF CARACAS DAILY NEWSPAPER, "ULTIMAS NOTICIAS.”

Fo CONFIRMATION GF THAT PRESS REPORT HaS YET BEEN np i

Kerr SUBSTANT IAL ALLEGAT IGN OF POSSIBLE IMPLICATION OF BOSCH

AND POSSIBLY OTHERS IN VENEZ LELA IN LETELIER DEATH IS THAT REPORTED

7514 OF OCTOBER 13, i976, REFLECT ING ()

THAT BOSCH WAS QUOTED TO HAVE SaID aT FUND-RAISING DINNER IN
GiURACAS: “NOW THAT OUR ORGANIZATION HAS COME CUT OF THR LETELIER

i JOB LOOKING GOOD, WE ARE GOING TO TRY SOMETHING ELSE." EGAT cs

| [our ce’ HAD REPORTED THAT BOSCH CONTENDED IGNACIO NOVO SAMPOL AND
GUILLERMO NOVO SAMPOL WERE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE OPERaT ION AGAINST

LETELIER, AND THAT THEY UNDERTOO, THE ACTION FOR CHILE AN SECRET

LL! POL Ice ogee)
: IN VIEW OF SENSITIVE CIRCUMSTANCES, LESAT* S

i POSIT ICONS TO PROVIDE ACCURATE INFORMATION
IN LETELIER AND CUBANA CRASH MATTERS HAVE BEEN SOMEWHAT CLRTAILED

TwO WEEKS. EFFORTS &

ILL BE MADE aS SOON AS FELT

9
4
4
ra]
ao
<7
faa
cl
=
>,
iy
ay
>
=
rd
=
=
A
co)

HE VENEZ ELAN ANTI-CASTRO

CROUP MAY HAVE TO THE LETELIER DEATH. &)
END PAGE TWO

SECRET.

HW 50953 DocId:32296791 Page 3
