# 124-10094-10135

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/9/2018

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10094-10135

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-632-SUB A-1A17

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES: 13

SUBJECTS :

SEE FBI 100-32965-2

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/16/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: BULKY ENC

v91

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act.of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hoteke.

DATE: 11-14-2017

29305

FEDERAL BUREAU/OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGIMATED AI HOUSTON, TEXAS

MEMONT MADE AT/

DATE WHEN MAD

HOUSTON,

TEXAS

6/10/42

FILE NO. 100-1619

TROD FOR

MICH MAD

6/2,3,6/4

REPORT MADE IY

R. J. CLEMENTS

СНАПАСТИЯ OF CARK

TINE

JERAY VON WORENSCHILDT, With aliases: GEORGE VON

WHOHRENSCHILDT,

GEORGE SERGIUS VON SUHRENSCHILDT;

LILIA PARDO VIVEN DE LARINe

INTERNAL SECURITY - G.

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

Subjects arrived Corpus Christi, Texas, 5/14/41,

in 1941 Chrysler Convertible Coupe bearing current

New York tags #5N9937, and registered Nueces Hotel,

taking separate rooms. On 5/29/41, they registered

as man and wife at Tarpon Inn, Port Aransas, Texas,

where they remained until 6/2/41 when they returned

to Nueces Hotel.

VON MOHRENSCHILDI is reportod to

have photographed and sketched Coast Guard Station

and Ship Channel near Port Aransas. Bramination of

his papers by Irmigration Oficials at Corpus Christi

- reveals he possesses Polish Passport #143462 issued'

a 010/30/37 in Antwerp, Belgun, and filed his declaration

cof intention to become a U. S. citizen on 7/19/38 in NiC. r

He is registered under the Alien Registration Act and E

viet Mexico and Cube.

AGAYCL

HED.

REC'D

REP'T FORN..

mately $12,000 derived in Poland and states he pro

duced a motion picture entitled "oland Forever" for

exiled Polish Government. He alst claims employment

by Humble Oil Compary in Louisiam and is presently

representing Facts & Filme Motion Fcture Co. Of NI

for whom he. is to produce a Mexican travelog. LILI

KOIARIN is a Mexican citizen, claims ti be an actress,

and is reputed to be the widow of a malthy Mexican

candy manufacturer. She possessed a 'emporary Non-

Immigrant Visa for admission to U. S. hich expires

AT.I:

APPROVED AND

FORWANDE

CORLES DESTROYED SL/SLA

COPIES OF THIS REFORT

Ghriot1 telephone calls obtalned."

100

VON MGRENE

~ Bureau

- ir. Earl J. Connelley, Ass't

Director, NYC

ry

Net

3 - Hoilton

7-984

MIS

DocId: 32159212

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

100-1649, R. J. CLEMENTS, HOUSTON, 6/10/41

Name

Age

Born

Height

Weight

Build

Hair

Eyes

Complexion

LILIA PARDO VIUDA DE LARIN

35 years

Mexico City, Mexico, 5/19/06

5' 8"

130-135 pounds

Medium

Red (probably hennaed)

Brown

Dark

subsequent to the above interview, RUSSELL BROWN

contacted Senor SANTIAGOASUAREZ, Mexican Consul at Corpus Christi,

who is a close friend of BROWN, inasmuch as subject LARIN had indi-

cated her acquaintance with him. SUAREZ was not notified of the

Bureau's interest in subject LARIN, and advised that he first became

acquainted with her in New York City, having met her at a social

function there.

SUAREZ stated that LILIA LARIN is supposed to be the

widow of Senor LARIN, a famous Mexican candy manufacturer 'whose

products are as well known in Mexico as Wrigley's chewing gum in

the United States."

He advised that if she actually is this indi-

vidual, she is undoubtedly a wealthy woman.

SUAREZ stated that with-

in the past week, subject LARIN had contacted him for the purpose of

obtaining a letter to some officials in Paris, France, in order to

arrange the immigration of a Polish family from France into the

United States.

She did not supply any particulars as to

the identity

of the immigrants, but stated that she would return at a

which she never did.

later date,

Senor SUAREZ stated that no Europeans are presently

allowed to enter Mexico without a Permit from the Secretaria de

Gobernacion, and that subject VON MOHRENSCHILDT would be unable to

accompany subject LARIN unless he procured such a Permit. He advised

that Senora LARIN had discussed this matter with him and was presently

attempting to obtain a Permit from the Mexican Consul at Laredo, Texas.

The above facts were telephonically related to Special

-

Agent KENNETH LOGAN on June 3, 1941, and the information was furnished

to the San Antonio Field Division by teletype, request being made of

that office to arrange for a search of subject's personal effects and

baggage on

entrance into Mexico and upon return.

- 7-

100-32965-2

130-10518

DocId: 32159212 Page 3

---

