# 124-90113-10014

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/3/2018

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90113-10014

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

121-7327-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/16/1948

20

JACOB NATHAN WASSERMAN

JACK WASSERMAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

19.1

---

## Page 2

Date : 08/10/98

Page

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD

• NUMBER

: 124-90113-10014

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 121-7327-9

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : NY

TITLE :

DATE

: 06/16/48

PAGES

: 20

SUBJECTS : JACK WASSERMAN

JACOB NATHAN WASSERMAN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/06/98

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

---

## Page 3

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT BUREAU

NY FILE NO. 121-2457 md: KD

REPORT MADE AT

DATE WHEN MADE

PERIOD FOR

NEW YORK

. 6/16/48

28352718

10-13/21

REPORT MADE BY

ALBERT J. KLEIN

TITLE

JACOB NATHAN

WASSERNAN, aka Jack,

Jake,

CHARACTER OF CASE

Chief Counsel, Bureau of Land Management

U. S. Department of the Interior

LOYALTY OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES

Fashington, D. C.

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

PEE DIST OFF 4

T. REC: 0=12-58

PT. Forl. 7-8-58

Employee born 1/19/10 at NYC, his parents having been

born in Russia. Graduated City College of New York

1934 with B.S.

and Columbia Law School, 1933 with ILB.

Education satisfactory as to loyalty.

Employment,

associates, including a number of prominent attorneys,

all recommend employee as to loyalty. Neighborhood

reflects nothing derogatory as to loyalty• Loyalty

form reflects membership in American Jewish Congresa

which is Comminist dominated, according to New York

informant. NYC credit, criminal and informant negative

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

- RU C -

DATE 2•4-97 x 5668 SLD KSK

(JFK)

Bureau letter to Washington Field, 5/15/48.

REFERENCE:

tore Mate

totat come the

It is to be noted that the name of JAKE is being he

added to the title of this report, which nam

as reflected on the birth certificate of th

'employee.

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

DENT

HARGE

COPIES OF THIS

6

'- Bureau

2

• New York

CONC: 10.348

? DE61 0: 10c

E B

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACIS

171T52327-7

BEiFOT 291349

RECORDED - 11E

INDEXED - 115

6t X3

ЖИЗЖИТ PRENTINE OUTIOS

7-2034

---

## Page 4

NY 121-2457

JACOB NATHAN WASSERIAN, aka

'Jack; Jake WASSERMAN

Chief Counsel

Bureau of Land Management

U. S. Department of the Interior

Washington, D. C.

LOYALTY OF GOVERNMENT EXPLOYEES

June 16, 1948

New York, New York

RESULTS OF INVESTIGATION

Birth

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

ISSIFIED

DATE2-4-97 BY 56668 SLD /KS

the recoras of the Department of Health, New York City, reflec

the employee's birth at New York City on January 19, 1910 under the name of

JAKE WASSERMAN. According to Birth Certificate #4786, his parents, ABRAHAM

and DORA ZIEMAN HASSERMAN, were both born in Russia.

Records of Appellate Division,

Supreme Court of the State of New York

The records of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of the

State of New York, First Judicial Department, 25th Street and ladison Avenue,

New York City, as furnished by Assistant Clerk THO'AS RIOPDAN, reflected the

employee was adnitted to the New York State Bar on April 16, 1934 under the

name of JACOB NATHA! WASSERIAN. These records further disclosed he was born

or January 19, 1910 in New York City, and his parents, ABRAHA! and DOPA

NASSERIAN, were both born in Poland.

His address was listed as 350 West 55th

Street, New York City, and it was indicated that he had resided there from

September, 1933 until the date of his application, March 15, 1934. In addition,

these records reflected he had graduated in February, 1934 from the City College

of New York with a Bachelor of Science degree and from the Columbia Law School

in June, 1933 with a Bachelor of Law degree.

His employment was indicated to have been as follows:

July, 1923 to February, 1925

New York Law Institute,

New York City;

Librarian

---

## Page 5

NY 121-2457

March, 192? to November, 1929

September, 1932 to June, 1933

July, 1933 to February, 1934

February, 1934 to date of applica-

tion (March 15, 1934)

Audubon Theater of the Fox

Theaters Corporation, New

York City;

Chief Usher

John Jay Dining Hall

New York City

Typist and Writer

Professor RICHARD R. POWELL,

Columbia University

Law School,

New York City;

Researcher

Greenbaum, Wolff & Ernst,

285 Madison Avenue, New York City;

Law Clerk

It was noted in the records of the Appellate Division of the Supreme

Court of the State of New York that the employee answered "yes" in response to

Government queste us t

"Do you believe in the principles underlying the form

ed States?' and "Can you conscientiously and do yo

affirm that you are, without any mental reservation, loyal te the Government of

the United States?". There was nothing further in this file which would bear

on the question of loyalty.

Education

AGNES I. CONDON, Registrar of the evening school, City College of New

cork, -3ith Street and Convent Avenue, New York City, advised that the records

disclosed the employee had entered that college in September, 1926 and had con-

tinued there until June, 1930. In September, 1933 he reentered the college and

was graduated in February, 1934 with a Bachelor of Science degree. There was

nothing in the record which would bear on the question of loyalty.

LEONARD GOODSTEIN, Assistant to the Dean of Student Activities at the

City College of New York, checked his records and advised there was nothing

contained therein which would bear or the questior of loyalty.

2

---

## Page 6

NY 121-2457

KrS. CAROLINE DILWORTH, Assistant to the Dean, Columbia University

Law School, ll6th Street and Broadway, New York City, advised her records re-

flect the employee was admitted to that school in September, 1930 and in June,

1933 was graduated with a Bachelor of Law Degree. According to Mrs. DILWORTH,

his record was clear and there was nothing contained in the file pertinent to

the question of loyalty.

JA'ES P. GIFFORD

editor for the "Columbia Law Review" during the period of his attendance at the

Columbia Law School.

GIFFORD stated that the position of editor with the

"Columbia Law Review" was one held only by outstanding students. GIFFORD said

that he had had no recent contact with the employee.

However, based on his

association with him during the employee's attendance at the school, he would

consider him to be loyal to this country.

Professor PAUL R. HAYS of the Columbia Law School, stated he recalled

the employee as having been an outstanding student and one whom he considered

BRUNO SCHACHNER, Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern

District of New York, United States Court House, Foley Square, New York City,

advised that he had been a fellow student with the employee at the Columbia

Law School from 1930 to 1933 and had also know. him in connection with their

mutual association with the "Columbia Law Review" as editors.

He stated that

Law School; however,

would have recalled the same at this time. It was his belief that the employee

was loyal.

LOUIS HAIMOFF,

an attorney with the law firm of Wasservogel &

Sylvester, 70 Pine Street, New York City,

stated that he had attended the

Columbia Law School with the employee and had also been associated with the

"Columbia Law Review" at the same time as was the employee. He described

WASSERVAN as having been a brilliant student and one who seemed to be very

mature in his actions and thinking. Mr. HAT'OFF advised that he had had no

however, during the time he knew him at the

Columbia Law School, the employee always conducted himself in a manner which

would indicate he was a loyal American.

3

---

## Page 7

NY 121-2457

Employment

GEORGE P. SEFBACH, Librarian, New York Law Institute, 120 Broadway,

New York City, advised that he recalled the employee as having been employed

by the New York Law Institute as a page boy for approximately two years some

twenty years or more ago.

SETBACH stated that the records covering the actual

employment were no longer available;

however, it was his recollection that the

employee had left the New York Law Institute of his own volition and that the

position had been taken by his brother, SAMUEL BA WASSERMAN, who 1S nov &

practicing attorney at lll Broadway, New York City. Mr. SEEBACH advised that

he has had very little contact with the employee since the termination of his

employment with the New York Law Institute.

Based on his association with

WASSER'AN, however, Mr. SEEBACH would consider him to be loyal. In addition,

he stated that he has always been favorably impressed by the employee's brother,

SAMUEL B. WASSERMAN, whom he also considers to be loyal to the United States.

PAUL BEHRKE, 265 Riverside Drive, New York City, advised that he had

been the former Comptroller of the Fox Theater Corporation, 1560 Broadway, New

York City, which Corporation had operated the Audubon Theater. Mr. BEHRKE

stated that the Fox Theater Corporation had gone into bankruptcy some fifteen

years ago and that, therefore, the employment records were no longer available.

He could not recall the employee. It is to be noted that according to the

records of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court for the State of New York,

WASSER 'AN was employed as Chief Usher at the Audubon Theater from March, 1927

to November, 1929.

Professor RICHARD R. POWELL, Columbia Law School, ll6th Street and

Broadway, New York City, advised that the employee had been a student in a

number of his law classes at the Columbia Law School during his attendance there

and that he had also beer. employed by him from July, 1933 to February, 1934 as

a Research Assistant. He described WASSERMAN as being an individual of excellent

character and one possessed of a keen analytical mind. Professor POWELI stated

that he had had no contacts with the employee since the termination of his

employment with him, but he considered him to be thoroughly loyal to the United

Mrs. MARIAN NUGENT, Clerk, John Jay Dining Hall, Columbia University,

1l6th Street and Broadway, New York

City, advised that she had no record of

the employment of WASSERVAN as a waiter and typist from September, 1932 to June,

1933.

She advised that the records covering that period of time were no longer

available.

MORRIS L. ERNST, an attorney with the law firm of Greenbaum, Wolff

4

---

## Page 8

NY 121-2457

& Frnst, 285 Madison Avenue, New York City, advised that WASSER Al: had been

employed as a law clerk for approximately four or five months in 1934. He

explained that at that time his law firm represented the New York State

Superirtendent of Insurarce in connectio. with Mortgage Reorganizations and

that in connection therewith,

he had applied to Professor RICHARD PORTIL Of

the Columbia Law School for a bright young student.

Professir POWElL had

referred the employee to him and during his employment with Greenbaum, Wolff

*: Ernst, WASSER'AN had done a very fine job. Mr. EPNST described the employee

worker. He stated that he believed the employee to be loyal to this courtry.

Miss PAlLA GROSS, Secretary to MARIS L. ERNST, stated that she re-

called the employee as having been employed at Greenbaum, Wolff & Ernst for a

few months some fifteen years ago and that to the best of her know ige he

was loyal to the United States.

HARCLD F. SELIGSON of the law firm of Marshall, Bratter & Seligson,

150 Broadway, New York City, advised that WASSEPIAN had been employed as a

law clerk fror. August 1, 1934 until April 9, 1938 when he resigned. Mr. SELIGSO!

described WASSERNAN as a very capable attorney and one whom he considered to be

loyal to the United States.

According to Mr. SELIGSON, the employee's address

was listed in the records

as having been 808 Adee Avenue, Bronx, New York.

Mr. JA'ES MAP.SH. LL of the law firm of Marshall, Bratter & Seligson,

advised that he recalled that the employee came to that law firm from Greenbaum,

Wolff & Ernst and in his opinion, WASSERMAN was an above average young lawyer.

Mr. MARSHALL corsidered him to be a loyal American.

HEPBEPT WECUSIER, Professor of Law at the Columbia Law School, advised

that he krew the employee very well, he having met WASSERIAN in connection with

their both assisting Senator ROBERT F. WAGNER of New York. Mr. WECHSLER advised

ly six months at the New York State Corstitutional Convertion in Albany, New York

with his official duties for Senator WAGNER. It was his opinion that the employee

was a loyal American.

Residences

350 West 55th Street, New York City

Mrs. EDITH GRAHAM, Receptionist, Bing & Bing Corporation, 119 West

40th Street, New York City, stated that Bing & Bing were the real estate agents

5

---

## Page 9

NY 121-2457

for the apartment house located at 350 West 55th Street, New York City. Mrs.

GRAHAM also advised that the records disclosed that JACOB WASSER'AN had beer

a resiaent at that address from September, 1933 until July, 1934.

EDGAR DUNKLEY, elevator operator at 350 West 55th Street, advised

that he recalled WASSEPWAN having been a tenant at this address some ten or

fifteen years ago. It was his recollection that WASSER'AN was a very quiet

and reserved individual and one who kept to himself most of the time. It was

his belief that at that time WASSERMAN was attending college. He stated that

during the residence of WASSERMAN at this address nothing came to his attention

which would bear on the question of loyalty.

MrS. JACK JORDAN and Mrs. JOSEPH P. COLEMAN, both tenants of 350

West 55th Street, New York City, for over fifteen years, were contacted but

they could not recell the employee.

808 Adee Avenue, Bronx, New York

PERETZ HUPWITZ, 808 Adee Avenue, Bronx, New York, advised that he had

been a resident at this address since 1927 and recalled the WASSEPWAN family

having resided there for some three or four years. He stated that they moved

in about 1938. Mr. HURWITZ stated he had had only a casual acquaintance with

the WASSERNAN family and it was his recollection that the employee was residing

there with his parents.

and as far as he knew they were loyal to this country.

NES• ANNA PERIMUTTER, another tenant at this address, advised she

vaguely recalled the employee having lived at this address some ten or fifteen

years ago, but she could not furnish any information concerning him which would

bear on the question of loyalty•

The following residents of 808 Adee Avenue, Bronx, New York, all of

whom have resided there for fifteen years or more, were also contacted, but they

could not recall the WASSEPNAN family: Mrs. REGINA HUBERMAN, and Mrs. BESSIE

FURMAN.

2558 Creston Avenue, Bronx, New York

MYRON EISENSTEIN, a partner in the firm of the Bronx Land Management

Corporation, 4140 Broadway, New York City, advised that the Bronx Land Management

6

---

## Page 10

NY 121-2457

Corporation owns the apartment house located at 2558 Creston Avenue, Bronx,

New York. Mr. EISENSTEIN stated that the records reflected that WASSERMAN

had resided at that address from September, 1937 until October, 1939• Mr.

EISENSTEIN stated there was nothing in the record which would bear on the

question of loyalty and he also advised he could not recall the employee.

been a resident there for the past twenty years but he could not recall the

employee.

In addition, the following residents at this address were contacted,

none of whom could recall the employee: Mrs. S. GIBELMAN, Miss IRENE M. MCKENNA,

and SOL NATHANSON.

Acguaintances

SAMUDI, F. BENDER, Dentist, 2119 Tiebout Avenue, Bronx, New York,

advised that he had been a friend of the employee for approximately the past

twenty years, his sister being married to the employee's brother, SAMUEL,

MASSERMAN. Dr. BENDER stated that up until the time that the employee moved

to Washington, D. C. they had been very close friends and had had numerous

social contacts. He stated that since the employee's departure from New York

City, their acquaintance has been nore casual, but they continued to occasionally

visit one another. Dr. BENDER thus felt that he had had an intimate enough

contact with the employee during the past twenty years to form a definite

opinion on the question of his loyalty, and he stated that that opinion was that

WASSERMAN was undoubtedly a loyal American®

Mrs. SAMUEL F. BENDER, wife of DI. BENDER, advised that she too bad

known the employee for approximately twenty years and that she eould not speak

too highly of him. She considered both the employee and his wife to be people

of high integrity and in regard to the loyalty of the employee, Mrs. BENDER

stated, "there was not a particle of doubt.

Organizations

It is to be noted that the Request for Report on Loyalty Data form

executed by the employee on September 15, 1947, refle ots he is affiliated with

the American Jewish Congress.

In regard thereto, it is pointed out that

Confidential Informant New York City I-1, a reliable informant who is acquainted

- 7-

---

## Page 11

NY 121-2457

with Jewish communist activities, has advised that he considers the American

Jewish Congress at the present time to be Commnist infiltrated because of

membership in the American Jewish Congress of the Jewish Peoples Fraternal

Order of the International Workers Order and the American Jewish Labor Council,

both of which organizations this informant described as being Communist con-

trolled. It is pointed out that the International Workers Order is an or-

ganization listed by the Attorney General as coming within the purview of

Executive Order #9835. The employee was not known to this informant.

Credit and Criminal

The records of the Credit Bureau of Greater New York and of the

New York Police Department were both checked and they failed to reflect a

record for the employee under

the name of JACOB NATHAN WASSERMAN or JACK

HASSERMAN or JAKE NASSERMAN.

- 8 -

---

## Page 12

NY 121-2457

CONFIDENT TAL

INFORMANT

The confidential informant mentioned in the report of SA ALBERT J.

KLEIN, dated June 16, 1948 at New York,

is identified as

followg:

New York City I-1

Former New York Confidential

Informant ND

---

## Page 13

NY 121-2457

AD' INISTRATIVE DATA

The birth check was made by S.E. RICHARD F. O'HARA.

Columbia Law School check was made by SA JOHN DORMER.

New York City Police Department check was made by SA AUGIST J.

MICEr.

Credit check was made by SE RALPH G. MURDY.

Contact of New York City T-l was made by SA JA'ES J. MCCARTHY.

The following investigation was conducted by SA GEORGE H.

VALENTINE:

City College of New York check.

Appellate Division check•

New York Law Institute employment check.

A teletype was sent. to the Bureau and Washington Field Office on

June 1, 1948 advising that the Birth Records reflect employee's name as JAKE

WASSERNAN.

A teletype was sent to the Bureau on June 3, 1948 requesting authority

to interview MORRIS I.. ERNST.

A bureau teletype was received on June 5, 1948 authorizing the inter-

view of MORRIS L. ERNST.

A teletype was sert to the Bureau and Washington Field Office advising

that WASSER"AN was employed from October to November, 1938 by the Independent

Citizens Committee for Reelection of Senator of ROBERT F. WAGNER.

The Washington

Field Office was requested to verify the same through Miss MINA RUPERT, Secretary

to Senator WAGNER.

The Bureau was advised that New York did not contemplate interviewing

Senator WAGNER because of his illness.

10

---

## Page 14

UNITED

• STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

JACOB NATHAN WASSERMAN

Iso known as "Jack", Jake Wasserma

hief Counsel

D. C.

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD PASR

ON 2-4-47 (VFV

Report of: Special Agent Albert J. Klein

Date and Place: June 16, 1948, New York, New York

as is amended copy al Security of Govatrunem

loyees report and shout not be tumoved for

der dissemination purposes. li dissixinastica

croar, coutus stuck! de tiad: Of tis coay

PROPERTY OF FBI

This confidential report and its

contents are loaned to you by the

FBI and are not to be distributed

outside of agency to which loaned

---

## Page 15

"Jack," Jake Wasserman

Chief Counsel

Bureau of Land Management

U. S. Deparinent of the Interior

Washington, D. C.

L YALTY OF DORIENT MIPLOYEES

June 16, 1948

New York, New York

RESILES DE INVESTIGA ION

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Birth

11-2-4-97 3648 SHOKSK

(JFK)

The records of the Departnent of Health, Ner. York City, reflect

the em, loyee's birth at New Yark City on january 19, 1410 under the name of

JAKE, KASCEHNAN.

According to Birth Certificate $4786, his parente, ABIAMA

and DOLA ZIFISAN MASSETLN, were both born in Russia.

Records of Appellate Division,

Supreme Cart of the State of New Tork

The recorde of the Appellate Division at the Supreme Court of the

State of New York, First Judicial Department, 25th Street and adiso:: Avenue,

New York City, as furnished by AsBirtant Clerk TWO AS RIŒDAN, reflected the

em, loyen was aditted to the New Jork State Bar on April lu, 1434 under the

name of 'ACOR NATHAN MASSEPIAN. These records further disclosed he was born

o, Jauary 14, 1910 In New York City, and his parento, ABlAllA and DIPA

WAS ChitAl, were both born in Poland.

Street, New York City, and It was indicated that be had resided there fror

September, 1933 until the date of his application, March 15, 1934. In addition,

these records reflected he had graduated in February, 1934 fron the Cit, College

o: Hew York with a Bachelar of Science degree and from tie Columbia Lan

/ School

His employment was indicated to have bren as followss

July, 1923 to February, 1925

Sen Jork Law Institute,

Nem York City,

L1 brarian

---

## Page 16

NZ 1<1-2457

March, 1927 to November, 1929

Septenber, 1932 to June, 1433

Audubon Theater of the Fox

Theaters Corporation, New

York City;

Chinf Usher

Johr day Dining Hall,

Her York City,

Eupiet and friter

J. 1y, 1933 to Fabruar,, 193.

Professor RICHARD R. FOELL,

Columbia University Lan School,

New York City;

Researcher

February, 1934 to date of appiica-

tion (Warch 15, 1934)

Greenbaun, wolff " Frest,

285 badison Avenue, lien York City,

Lan Clerk

It was noted in the records of the Appellate Division of the Supreme

Court of the State of New York that the employee answered "yes" ir response to

"Do you believe in the principles underlying the form

of overnment of the United States?" and "Can you conscientiously are do you

affirn that you are, mithout any mental reservation, loyal to the lover ment of

the United States"". There was nothing further in this file which would bear

on the question of loyalty.

Fducation

AGN'S T. CP.DOt, Registrar of the evening school, City College of Ner

York, 139th Street and Convent Averie, New York City, advised that the recorda

disclosed the employee had entered that college in September, 1926 and had con-

tinued there until June, 1930. In September, 1933 he reentered the college and

was Eraduated in February, 1934 with a Bachelor of Science degree.

There wes

nothine in the record which would bear on the queation of loyalty.

IF TARD GOODCT., Assistant to the Dear, of Student Activities at the

City College of New York, checked his records and advised there was nothing

contained thereir wiich would bear or the questio of loyalty.

2

---

## Page 17

NY 14-2457

1555. CAROLINE DIDIRT, Assistant to the Dean, Columbia University

Lar School, ll6th Street and Broadway, lew York City, advised her records re-

flect the a ployee was admitted to that school in September, 1930 and in Jine,

1933 war graduated with a Bachelor of Lan Degree. According to Krs. DILNORTH,

his record was clear and there was nothing contained in the file pertinent to

the question of loyalty.

JAR'S P. GIFFORD, Assistent to the Dean of the Columbia Law School,

stated he recalled the enployee as having been an excellent lar student and an

editor for the "Columbio Lan Review" during the period of his attendance at the

Colunti: Law School. GIFFORD stated that the position of editor with the

"Columbi: Lew Revler" was one held only by outstanding students. GIFTOPD said

that be had had no recent contact with the employee. However,

based on his

association: with him during the employee's attendance at the school, he would

consider him to be ioyal to this country.

Professor PAL N. HAYS of the Columbia Lan School, stated hi recalled

the employee as having been an outstanding student and one whor he corsidered

to be thoroughly loyal to the United States.

BRUNO SCHACHNER, Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern

District of New York, Untund States Court House, Foley Square, New York City,

adised th t he had been a fallon student with the euployee at the Columbia

Law ichool from 1930 to 1933 and had also know. him in connection with their

mutual association with the "Columbia Law Revlew" as editors. He stated thit

he did not get to knon the employee socially during their attendance at Columbia

Law School; horever, he felt that he had known the e ployee well enough to

state that had there been anything indicative of disloyalty on his part, he

would have recalled the same at tris time. It was his belief that the employee

was loyal.

LOUIS HAIMOFT, an attorney with the lan fra of Masservogel !

Sylvester, 70 Pine Street, New York City, stated that he had attended the

Columbin lar School with the e piqee and had alao been associated with the

*Columbia Law Revier" at the name time as was the employee. He described

PASSER AN as having been a brilliant student and one who seemed to be very

mature ir his actions and thinking.

"T. HAINOFF advised that he had had no

recent contacte with the employee;

however, during the time he knew him at the

Columbia Lar School, the employee alteye conducted himself in a nanner which

would indicate he was a loyal American.

3

---

## Page 18

NY 121-2457

Ezlozient

GONGE P. SETBAChi, Librarian, New Yorh: Law Institute, 120 Broadway,

New York City, advised thut he recalled the employee as having been employed

by the New Iork Lan Institute as a page boy for approximately tro years some

twenty years or nore ago. SERBACH stated that the records covering the actual

employment were no longer available;

however, it was his recollection that the

employee had left the New York Law Institute of his on volition and that the

position had been taker by his brother, SAlUEL B. WASsAN, who de nor a

practicing attorney at 1il Broadway, New York City. I. SHEBACH adviced that

he has had very little cortact with the employee since the termination of his

enployment with the New York Law Institute. Based on his associatior with

WASSE: 'AJ, however, kr. SERBACH would consider him to be loyal. In addition,

he stated

that he has alwaye benn favore ly inpressed by the employee's brother,

SANUEL E. HASSERIA, whot he also conalders to be loyal to the United States.

PAUL BEERKT, 255 Riverside Drive, New York City, advised thit he had

been

the former Comptroller of the Foy. Theater Corporation, 1560 Proadway, New

Jork City, which Corporation had operated the Aldu: on Theater. Ir. BlINKE

stated that the Fo. Theater Corporation lad gone into bankruptey sore fifteen

years azo and that, therefore, the employnent records were no longer availa: le.

He could not recall the e ployee. It is to be noted that according to the

rocorde of the Appellate Division of the Suprene Court for the State of Nex Yurk,

WASSER AN was employed as Chief Usher at the Aunubon Theater from Warch, 1927

to November, 1924.

Professor RICHARD R. PO.N'IL, Columbia Law School, ll6th Street and

Broadway,

New York City, advited that the employee had been a student in a

number of his law classes at the Coluble Law School during hie attendarce there

and that he had also been employed by hin fron July, 1933 to February, 1934 a8

a Research Assistant.

He described WASSHPUAN ae being an individual of excellent

character and one possessed uf a keen analytical mind. Professor POlll stated

that he had has no contacte with the employe since the termination of his

employment with hin, but he considered him to be thoroughly loyal to the Undued

States.

MrS. MARIAli NUGENE, Clerk, John Jay Dining Hall, Colunble Uriversity,

lloth Street and Broadway, New Xork City, advised thet she had no record of

the employment of WASSERIAN as a waiter and typist from September, 1932 to June,

1933. She advised that the records covering that period of time were no longer

"JHIS L. ERNT, an attorney with the law fire of Greenbaun, Wolff

4

---

## Page 19

MY 121-2457

& Ernst, 285 Madison Avenue, New York. City, advised that TiASO RAN hud beer.

employed as a lan clerk for approxinately four or five nonths in 1934. He

explained that at that time his law firt. represented the Nen York State

Superintendert of Insurance 11 cunnectio: with Mortgage Reorganization and

that in connectior. therewith, he had applied to ProfeBor RICHARD POTlL of

the Columbia Law chool for a bright young student. Profcss.r POrELL had

referred he employee to hin and during his e ployment with Greenbaun, Wolff

• ErnEs, KASSEPNA! bad done a very fine job. Ir. FENT described the employee

as havire a fine character and as being a very conscientious and diligent

He stated that he believed the employee to be loyal to this country.

MiB8 PALA GROSS, Secretary t. MJ.PIS L. WRIST, stated thet she re-

called the employee as having beer employed at Greenbaum, Wolff , Ernst for a

fer months sone fifteen years ago and that to the best of her kno ledge he

was loyal to the United States.

HAROLD P. SPLIOSON of the law firm of Larshall, Bratter & Sellesor,

150 Broadway, New York City, advised that WASSTILAN had been exployed as a

lan clerk from Auzust 1, 1934 until April 9, 1938 when he resigned. It. Stulas?

described WASSRVAN as a very capable autorney and one whon hr considered to be

loyal to the United States.

According to Mr. FLIGS M', the employee's address

was listed in the rocords a: having been 808 Adee Averue, Bronx, New York.

Holff & Ernst and in his ovinion, KASSTiVAl: wa: an above average young lawyer.

orded tone enema that the lary a

MT. MAREHALL corEidered him to be a loyal Auerican.

REPT RICHSLIR, Professor of Law at the Colunbia Lar School, advised

that he krom the employee very well, he having met KASSTIVAN in connection with

their both assisting Senator ROBERT F. WAGNER of New York. Mr. WECHSLER advised

that he had fornerly bren Legal Comsel for Senator WAGAR in 1935 for approximate-

ly six norths at the

New York State Co. stitutional Conve: tion in Albary, New York

and that during that time the employee had assisted har, WECHSLEI, in cornection

with his official duties for Senator WAGHER.

waB a loyal Aerican.

It was his opinion that the empioyee

Residences

350 Fiest 55th Stroet, New York City

VIE. YDITH GRAHA, Receptioniet, Ring & Bing Corporation, 119 West

40th Strees, lew York City, statod that Fing li birg were the real estate agents

5

---

## Page 20

NI 121-2457

for the apartment house located a: 350 rest 55th Street, New York: City. Irs.

GrAin' also advisnd thet the records disclosed that ACOB HAoS Ti'na had been

a resident ai that aucress fron sepender, 1933 until July, 1934.

EUGAP. DINKLIT, elevator operator at 350 Fest 55th Street, advised

that he recalled WASTENAn having boer a tenart at this address soe ten or

fifteen years ago.

It was his recollection that WASSER Ak was a very quiet

and reserved individual sixi one mio kipt to himselr most of the time.

his bellef that at that tine WASSEr'At was attending college. lie stated tha!.

during the residence of WArSElhi st this address nothing came to his attention

which would bear on the gestior of loyalty.

NE. JAC" J'7 DAL aNd ME, JOSEPH Fo GOLAi, both terents of 350

Weat 55th Street, New York City, for over filtern years, were contacted but

they could not rocall the employee.

808 ndee Averue, Bronx, New York

PATZ HUTT%, 008 Adee Avenue, Brinx, lew York, adv-sed that he had

been a resident at this adcrest since 1927 and recalled the WASSTRAY family

having resided there for sone three or four years. He stated that the, moved

in about 1932.

sir. HURTiZ stated he had had only a casual acquaintence with

the WASDEA:AN family and it was his recollection that the employee wa: residing

there with his parents.

he stated the MASSIlLIAN family had a good reputation

and as far an he kiew thay were loyal to this country.

UrB. LiNA PilINTIN, another terant at this address, advieed she

vaguely recailed the employee having lived at this address Bone ten or fifteen

years azo, but the could not furrash any infarmatiot concerning him which would

bear on the Question of loyalty.

The following residents. of 80S Aden Averao, Bronx, New York, all of

whon have resided there for fifteen yeare or nore, were also contacted, but they

could not recall the WASS PAN family:

PURMAR.

UrE. RIGINA HUB.ROLA:, and krE. BESSIE

2558 Crestor Avenue, Brors, New Yark.

VYY TISENSTEIN, a partner in the firm of the Bronx Land Vanagerent

Corporation, 4140 Broadway, New York City, advised that the Bronx Land Kanagerent

6

---

## Page 21

MY 121-2457

Corporation owns the apartment house located at 2558 Creston Avenue, Bronx,

New York. Mr. LIS NST IN alated that the reoords reflected that BASSERLAN

hat resided at that address from September, 1937 until October, 1939. Mr.

BISEYST: IN stated there was nothing in the

roord wilch would bear on the

question of loyalty and he also advised he could not recall the employee.

E. P. CRANZ, who occupied the ac joining apartment to the obe

oscupied by the employee during his residence at this address, advised he hac

boes a residest thare for the past twenty yeurs but he could not recall the

amployee.

In addition, the following residents at this address were contasted,

none of shos eculd recall the employees Are. S. GIBELHAH, MiSS IRENE M. MCKENNA,

and SOL KATHANSON.

Asquaintances

SAMUY: Y. BENDER, Dentist, 2119 Tiebout Avenuo, Brosz, How York,

advised that he had been a friend of the employee for approximately the past

twenty yours, his nister being narried to the employee's brother, BAluaL

WASSERYAN.

De. BENDER statod that up until the time that the employee moved

to lashington,

, D. C. they had been very clove friends and had had maroun

8001al contaots. He stated that since the eployee's departure froz New York

City, their nequaintance has been more casual, but they continund to pocasionally

Visit one another. Dr. BENUER thus felt that he had had an lotimate enough

contact with the employee during the past twenty years so form a definite

opinion on the question of ain loyalty, and he atated that that opinion ms that

KASSYRMAN was undoubtedly a loyal American®

MrS. BANURLY. BIXIER, WIfe of Dr. BENIER, advisod Bhat she too had

known the employse for approxiastaly twenty years and that she could not speak

800 highly of him. Sbe conaldered both she employes and his wife to be people

of high intogrity and in regard to the loyalty of the employee, Mrs. BEKIR

otatod, "sharo us not a particlo os doubts.

It 1e to be notod that the Request fer Report on Loyalty Data ferm

arocuted by the employoe on september 15, 1947, reposts he 1e affiliatod w18h

- 7-

---

## Page 22

NY 121-2457

with Jewinh Conunist artivition, has advised that be considera tine American

Joviah Congress at the present time to be Commist Infiltratad because of

memberahip in the Amorioan Jewsh Congress of the Jewish Peoples Fraternal

Order of the Intemational Workers Order and the American Jewish Labor Council,

both of which organizations this informant described as being Coummist con-

trolled. It la pointod out that the International Workers Order is an or-

zanization 11nted by Be Attorney General as coming within the purrien of

Crooutire Order 19835. The employee mes not knowa to thie informant.

Gredit and Crisinal

The records of the Credit Bureau of Greater New Jork and of the

New York Polio Departaent were both abecked and they failed to refleet a

reoord for the employee under the Dame of JACOB NATHAN WASSERHAN Or JACK

MASSERKAN AT JAKE KASSERMAN.

8-

---

