124-90139-10070) a Heiniil
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90139-10070
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 110-6-210-445
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: CIA
TITLE :
DATE: 12/11/1961
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
HERBERT LEVY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: | MEMO
|

v9.1
HW 50953 DocId:32337943

Page 1

Date:

4/17/201


SECRET

Jon t= Liaison
“Nv d © ire Mullins

di) wt. A764ag
ero YY eA my

ce HEDG Ge 6 December 11, 1961 oa :
Toe Director
Central Intelligence Agency QO
2 Attention: Deputy Director, Plans ke S-i-W
i : : &, la
Frome Jonn Edgar Hoover, Director : ONE
Subjects HERBERT LEVY ; en a A
MISCELLANEOUS = INFORMATION CONCERNING

(Nationalities Intell égence)

.£nelosed is a copy of a memorandum dated &
November 28, 1961, at Sait Lake City, Utah, concerning Cuban 4
economic matters. .Copies of the memorandum have been y ,
furnished to the Bureau of International Programs, Department Wd

of Commerce, and to other interested agencies.

The source of the information contained in the
memorandum is Ur. Herbert Levy, Director of Central Operations,
St. Regis Paper Company, Bag Division, 3357, South Lignth West,
Selt Leake City, Utah, telephone HUnter 6-7171, He resides at

» 2684 Hyland Hills Road, Salt Lake City, and his home telephone
number is HUnter 4-6424,

le

et
Z : According to Mr. bY, he resided at Houston, Texas, |
approximately five years aegofSnd was contacted there on several : |

pecasions by

ur, Levy indicated
=: 3 he was’ then

was able to furnish
information of interest concerning Ge |
e recently telephoned your headquarters in lashing tons Dols»

S but was unable to obtain any information concerning the identity
i of your representative in his section of the United States, He j
wwas- 801d he had no objection to nis identity being furnished to your (tie F
Agency but ines not destre that his identity be. revealed to any \ ‘y

paren

other agence fe als’ requested that no eckson be taken which De
—weuld reve: 3 identity to the busines? firm mentioned in the ff

non EPorandum or to any other commercial firms i ae
bt caer . A)
Sreceeae As ; We contemplate no further action ti thjs matter, Ma /
‘fe f eli, mf ovo |

/

\Se

. ia i360] j SEB. Mo ; SALT LAKE CITY |
“ }. bake City ¢ Pace Yop ig ; |
panes) :
Bor } Spool revervee uw CI :
TU. secner SHE NOTE ON YEnbOY PAGE TiO |

- : a, = a od. J

v i é = Sa

HW 50953 DocId:32337943 Page 2


Director :
Central Intelligence Agency (%) A7620

NOTE FOR SAC, SALT LAKE CITY:

Reurlet 11/28/61 captioned "Large Quantities of
Jute Bags and Hessian Cloth Sought -by Cuban Government by
. Purchase or Barter Through International Ore and Fertilizer
Company, New York City, New York, and Other Unknoun Concerns
November, 1961."

: NOTE ON YELLOW:

r]

assified "Secret" since we refer to :

He furnished information concerning poss e Bi
violation export regulations regardingsshipments to Cuba
by International Ore and Fertilizer Company,,a large and. a ee
reputable firm, Copigs.g’ memo have been fur#ished separately to :
Commerce, the military agencies and State Department. . Separate
letter also sent Salt Lake City concerning proper caption for
reporting similar data.

SECRET
moee

HW 50953 DocId:32337943 Page 3
