# 124-90089-10319

## Page 1

124-90089-10319

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90089-10319

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

100-344127-29

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

HQ

DOS

DATE: 12/01/1959

PAGES:

• 3

SUBJECTS:

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

DooId: 32330284

Page 1

---

## Page 2

naison

Nasco

12-2/59

1131998

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUD/ISR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

200

120

DeLoade

MeGairs

W.C. Callivan

Tolson

Belmont.

Mohi -

Nease

Parsons

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan.

Tele. Room -

Holloman ...

Gandy -

100-344127

SECRET

Date:

To a

December l

1959

Office of Security

Department of state

John Eagar Hoover, Director

CIA

LANOPIECTION TO

DECLASAIRCAT'ON AND/OR,

RELEASE DE CIS INPORMATION

IN THIS DUOUWENT. ENCGOT

KP 10-9-97

Irons

- Subjecte

D

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

REGISTRATION ACT • CUBA

ALL INFORMATYON CONTAINED

HERLIN IS UN LASSIFIED

i BYSPEBJALDMS

This will confirm information orally furnished

to Mro Charles E. Hammond, Department of State, ur.

1 Central

Intelligence Agencys Major H. C. ColeS)

Departnant of the Armys Commander John Spanko, Department

08

the Navys Major J

Bo Adams, Department of the Air Forces

and sergeant Joseph Hemphill, The Joint Chiefs.

Wro J. To Winnich of this Bureau on November 28, 1959.

On November 27s 1959, James William Wollweber

advised our Atlanto Office that he had been approached bo

and drop incendiaries on the Cuban sugar orop.

103

stated that he and Sarion had been in the Atlante penio

tentiary together. Wollweher stated he was told by saxton

that the cuban who was recruiting pilots for this purpose

was Pedro Suarea of Miami, Florida, Wollweber indicated

he received a call from Santon to come to miamt on November C9s

1959, to make arrangements for a flight to Cube..

Records of the TBI Identification Diviston

show that Gaylord Miles Saxton, FBI Number 3198376,

has been arreated on numerous occastone in the past

on charges unich inolude felonious assaulty careless

Ilying, Flying an unregistered aircraft,

creating o

disturbance, caryying a concealed weapon and conspiring

to smuggle aliens intootherunited States.

In 1950 he

convicted

on the latter charge and was sentenced to

veare imprisonmerte

mur many arrice davised of

Novenber 25g 19599

shas one recro suarea demandez.

VEN a bud: coc( 16)

1 • Eavana

EX-124

TAEG 61

5344-14-122

AAG Jo

Malter engey by

Foreign Liaison

Ch it

Пот обірва

соче

1950

Donahoe to Belmont 11/30/5

me subject..

TELETYPE UNIT L

NN 70953 D0010:32330284

Page 2

---

