# 124-10279-10258

## Page 1

124-10279-10258/

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date: : 4/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10258

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 109-12-221-417

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/10/1960

PAGES:

• 10

SUBJECTS:

NRO, INTELLIGENCE SUMMARY, MATEOS, LOPEZ, SOUTH

AMERICAN TRIP, CARIBBEAN POLITICAL SITUATION,

CUBAN EXILE ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NN 50953

DooId: 32301923

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRED

Date:

2/10/60

8-10: 14.

TO:

Director, FBI

Dewavany

OR: DAUN CASE

Fron:

Legat, lexico (100-743G)

Subject:

HONTHLY INTELLIGENCE SUMARY

SYNOPSIS

2/13/78 J5G

Serial

MSCA Ne 12/22/07 Requent

re Rothman

Declarsity oy: BADR 2/5/35

coordinated effort in resolving economic problems of Latin

principal importance of trip seems to have

motional rather than materialistic. DAVID AFFARC SIQUEIROS

(page 3): While recently in Caracas, Venezuelt,

SIQUEIROS made

statements critical of both Mexican President and lexican

Revolution, Mexican administration and public angerod by remarks

CARIBBEAN POLITICAL SITUAFION (page 3): Cuba. Meeting sponsored

by society of rriends of cuba held at Mexico city, 1/17/60, to

demonstrate support for Cuban Government.

Nicaragua:

Report

received that Cuban Government still planning to support invasion

of Nicaragua with pro-Conmunist elements.

Ha1t1: Political

situation reported to be deteriorating.

CORKALALD

-LASSiFIED

IN SHOWN

ESPARSIDO POPULAR - PP (POPULAR PARTY) (page 7):

PP being reorganized and members being solicited to submit

background and other data.

PP held annual New Year's banquet

on 2/6/60.

PP Inaugurated Pioneers, Boy Scout

type organization,

on. 2/5/60.

VICENTE LOMBARDO TOLEDANO (page 8) :

LOMBARDO WaS

principal speaker at PP New Year's banquet and

generally spoke

favorably

America.

^ covernment of LOPEZ MADOS a he r10 to south

14

+515-228-417

9

28

— Bureau

it- Hexico city

Stamit a

CP, Rx, 54,

lay the legs,

HW 50953 DocId: 32301923

Page 2

FETI

-B 25 1960

EC. DEFR

CASS

DECLAS

---

## Page 3

SECRETI

MC 100-743G

Cuban Ex1le Activities

The PSI also advised that information received from

sources within Cuba reflected that FIDEL CASTRO had prepared a

decree ordering the United States to vacate the Guantanamo

Naval Base.

According to this information, the decree was

originally prepared in late November, 1959, but nad not yet

signed for issuance. (* MAY

The PSI further reported that he had heard reports in

Miami, Florida, of an invasion attempt which allegealy woulo

be made by supporters of ROLANDO, MASFERRER, a Cuban exile who

resides in miami. The is_ stated that MASFERRER, ROBERTO

*FERNANDEZ MIRANDA, NORMAN ROTHMAN, and their associates form a

group which is not regarded in a favorable light by responsible

Cuban exiles or by responsible elements within Cuba. The PSI

stated that from the information available to him in Miami he

doubted very much that MASFERRER would be able to make an

Nicaragua

PSI DE LEON also advised on January 28 that he had

received Information from within Cuba

that ERNESTO "CHE"

Nicaraguan exiles and Cuban

Invade Nicaragua.

This source advised that approximately 400

guerrillas have been trained to make up the invasion force.

The PSI stated he had received no Information as to the timing

of such an attempt, but expressed doubt that it would occur in

the immediate future in view of the concern of the Cuban Govern

ment over a possible early invasion attempt by Cuban exiles. (CLU)

-5-

SECRET

1: 37.8

50953 DocId:32301923 Page 3

---

## Page 4

"SECRET,

MC 100-743G

age and is disposed to follow an international policy that

will not only benefit Mexico but its sister Latin American

countries who are bound together not only by historical ties

but by the same economic and social conditions and identical

In apparent reference to DAVID ALPARO SIQUETROS, CLAi

Leading Pel rigure, he stated that some people, who are unable ti

to understand national and international politics although

chey expound them daily, have been critical of president LOPEZ

MATEos trip. During the course of the President's tri

SIQUEIROS made a statement to the press wherein he criticized

the President for not accepting a bid to visit Cuba and stated

chat President LOPEZ MATEOS was merely laying the ground worl

or & subsequent visit by President EISENHOWER. LOMBARDO was

critical of President LOPEZ MATEOS In certain respects,

particularly in connection with the imprisonment of the

railroad strike agitators and PCM and POCM leaders.

ACTION TAKEN:

None. Will be disseminated in the

next report on the PP.

Ks)

j(S)

Investigation conducted by this offigg to identify

pointed to

5J

[S]

on

I960, ME

returned to Mexico CIty (S)

from a trip to los Angeles. He thereafter kepta prearranged

meeting

with

1960, and turned over to L5J

nimen

id newspaper, clippings gathered or il

[5]

Instructed MEX

to pick up al

[57

Streets

was to contain questions recarding MEXL

personal meeting for

trip to Los Angele 1960. i

_Also set up als

(5)

=9=

SECRET

NY 50953 DooId: 32301923 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

MC 100-743G

- 428332.

1960.

contrary toff

Il this

705)

Instead of beingL

I5)

lans -'keeps the notes of his

among what type of

beervations and the newspaper caippy initiate his contacts, (SJ

people does i

what his expenses have been, the manner in which the data on

seen by the

vas obtained LS

noted in the vicinity of the places S

visited,

the possIbIlItY of taking photographs,

of the objectives, how

explains his

strips do his ts

family, and the identity of the objectives on which data can

be more easily secured.)

MEX

questions posed

T100o, and enoral anorod the

Tby Men on (s]

and MEX

Tronhanged the personas meting between e t

at the same time and place.co

ACTION TAKEN:

None, pursuant to specific Bureau

Instructions.

17009

—10-

SECRED

50953

DocId: 32301923

Page

5

---

