# 124-10214-10253

## Page 1

124-10214-10253

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/16/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10214-10253

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-131629-32

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO :

AG

TITLE :

DATE: 06/07/1965

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

CC, PLOT, ASSA, CASTRO, FIDEL, CUBAN LEADERS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

NH 50953

5

DooId: 32294977

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECDASSIPTED BY 6855

SECRET

Mr. Belmont

Mr.

Mohr

Mr +

DeLoach

Mr. Sullivan

- Mr. Wannall

June 4, 1965

156.

Mro

Cotter

14 Mro

Nasca

O Brien

PLANS TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN LEADERS

9803 RDD ASS

Classified by =

SPEBJANCL

17-8-

Declassify on:

OADRy/i/sy

77211,326

596

Tolson

Belmont -

Mohr _

DeLoach -

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

Felt -

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel

Erotier

Tele. Room -

Holmes ..

Gandy .

NH 50953 DocId: 32294977 Page 2

On, June 2, 1965, Victos Domindador Espinosa

hernandez,

Cuban refugee, was intervloved at the New Yorki

City Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Espinosa advised as followss

C9, Nd So 2

spending twenty 31x

On May 29, 1965, he returned to New Yorl City after

days in Paris, France, there he was in

contact with individuals involved in a plot to assassinate

ISIMATHLO

Pidel Castro and other Cuban Government leaders. the main

Figure in this plot is Rolando Cubela, a close friend of

Espinosa and an intimate friend and current neighbor of

NMOHS ANANA LAZONE

Pídel Castro. Cubela is identical with former Major Rolando

L. Cubela y Secades, who has resigned from the arded forces

031275acTOra St RiGH

of Cuba and ie now practicing medicine in Havana. Alberto

CANIVERDO NOI LUKHOSNI ON

blanco, an employee of the Cuban Foreign Ministry,!

and Major

Juan Almeida Bosque fare the other leading ligures in thield

plot.

REVERSE

(4) STE

OR

He conferred in Paris for about ten days with

CLAS

SINICATION

Alberto Blanco] who was then on an Inspection tour or cuban(s

THON

embassies and Consulates abroad. He learned that the Bout

is directed toward the assassination of fidel Castro, his

brother faul Castro, Ernesto "Che" Cuevara, & Cabinet member

in the present Cuban Government, and Ramiro Valdes, the Chief

of the Cuban Intelligence Service:: The ase.

saination of these

OBJECTION

AND/OR

FORMATION.

MENT

individuals is to take place in publie, possibly on July 26,

1965, when all the Cuban leaders would be together at the

NO

DOCU

annual july 26th celebration in lavana. After the assassinst pa,

those involved in the plot hope to seize the radio station

HIS

and call for American help. Cubela and others associated

with him in this plot desire to know whether or not the

United States would help if the plot was sucmssful andelf

105-131629

1 - 2-1821 (Espinosa)

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

1 - 105-77667 (Cubela)

1 - 105-82793

(Almeida) Excluded from

FOB: J$

dem

ling and

(16) MAILEROOM L

SECRET

declamicheation

SECRET RANDO

ENCLOSURE

115-131629-3

---

## Page 3

(SECRET

PLAUS TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN LEADERS

the United States would be ready to give this assistance at

a moment's notice as the plotters may be able to hold the

Government for only a day or two.

He was in Spain for about twenty hours during his

recent trip and in that country he contacted other Cuban

exilestend learned that a man nared

who is in

charge of the Central Intelligence Agency Office in Madrid.

is aware of this plot to a certain degree The Cuban exiles

do not trust

and allege he has

by a Cuban girl nicknamed "Tota' " who was sent. from Havana

to Spain for the specific purpose of getting in contact with

iz (5)

He requested to be put in contact with a representative

of the Central Intelligence Agency who was thoroughly familiar

with the Cuban situation and knowledgeable concerning the

individuals involved in the plot -/30l

NOTE:

Above information contained in New York teletype

dated 6/2/65, captioned, "Victor Domindador Espinosa Hernandez,

Neutrality Matters; Internal Security = Cuba."

Bureau files indicate Espinosa in 1963 was involved

in a plan to bomb Cuba. Our investigation of this plat, which

was not a Central Intelligence Agency operation, resulted in

seizure of over a ton of dynamite and other material to be

used in making bombs.

Bureau files indicate Cubela has been previously

contacted in Europe by Central Intelligence Agency possibly

(u)

with a view towards taking some action against Cuban leaders

1/52

(Almeida Bosquemay be identical with person serving dU)

asy First Deputy Minister of the Cuban

Revolutionary Armed Forces. X(5)

Original of this memorandum being sent to Attorney

General, (copy to Deputy Attorney General) by cover letter.

Xerox copy being furnished to White House and Director, Central."

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE THREE

CFCRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32294977 Page 3

---

