# 124-10291-10319

## Page 1

124-10291-10319

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/22/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10291-10319

RECORD SERIES: HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-117262-25, 24

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, PA

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/18/1965

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

SBE, REL, WINNER, MIRIAM FINKELMAN, AKA, PERSONAL

HISTORY AND BKG

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : INC 2 MEMO, LHM

N9.1

NH 50953

DooId: 32307179

Page 1

8

---

## Page 2

RIPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY I982 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.8

UNITED STATES GÓ

RAMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM BISAC, CINCINNATI (105-3048) (6)

DATE:

SECRETI

10/6/65

SUBJECT:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEd

MEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

MYRIAM FINKELMAN

Y WINER

IS - CUBA

(00: Cincinnati)

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWM

OTHERMISE CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT EXCEPT

Re Legat, Paris, letter to Bureau 8/18/65.

BRACKETS

ткн 2-6-98

Enclosed for Bureau are nine copies of letterhead

memorandum with accompanying evaluation memo concerning

captioned matter.

It is classified Confidential because

of the source from which the information emanated. .

The source is identified as Liaison Sectiond

icinnati is closing its case since subject is

in Spain, has never been to the U. S., and there is no

reason to believe she will come to this country within the

near future.

2- Bureau (Enc.

- Cincinnati

(RM)

REM: blb

. (3)

CLASSIFIED BY

DSC: 4921P

5-30-9883

5668 SW/KR

(JER)

111/96

Classified by

NOR 5Y

Declassify gh: 0

REC- 43

105-17262

-25

1

OCT * 1965

SECRET

с с-

0013.78 4/20/66

COpY tO: CHA/STATEARAO

ONI /OSI/ACSI

By routing slip for info.

Date= 10/15/665

__by>

ПДТ.

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

5010-108

NH 50953 DocId: 32307179 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

RE: MYRIAM FINKELMAN Y WINER

1800 SOUTH /REASURE

PRiVE

Sam Benton MIAMI BEACH Brother -

same as above

SECRED

Francis Lyons.

ELA.

Sister - 14 Walton Street, Portland, Mane

According to Dr. Manuel Cortina, who was formerls

acquainted with Winer in Santa Clara she is currentl

Director ot English Language at the Mangold Institute in

Madrid. He has no information concerning her present address,

however, he said she is believed to be living with an

unidentified Cuban exile who was a professor in Las Villas.

According to the knowledge of the source, they are not married.

The source could not furnish any additional information

concerning Winer's activities and stated there is no

indication she will leave Spain and come to the United States d

POAICINENTIS

THIS IS LOANED TO YOU BY THE FBI,

AND NEITHER IT NOR ITS. CONTENTS

ARE TO BE DISTRIBUTED OUTSIDE THE

AGENCY TO WHICH LOANED.

2

911-10311

NH 50953 DocId: 32307179 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM'NO. 10

MAY 1952 EDITION

S010-106-03

GSA GEN. PEG. NO. 21

UNITED STATES GO

INMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI

LEGAT, PARIS (105-3551) (RUC)

MIRIAM FINKELMAN WINNER

IS - CUBA,

(00 - Cincinnati)

DATE: 8/18/65

SECRET

PREENWIN HEREN IS UATLA SONED

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINER

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

70-817

Re Cincinnati letter to Bureau 6/29/65.

There are enclosed for the Bureau and Cincinnati

each one copy of a memorandum dated 8/9/65 pronarad hr the

Liaison Section

containing backgrouna intormation regarding

the fanfloned

subject

It appears that the subject is presently residing

in were and into the rector a english language

The Consular Section has

no record of an applica

tion for a United States visa from the subject.

We have

requested that they advise us in the event a visa application

is received.

CIA HAS NO ORJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATOM AND/OR,

IN THIS DOCUMED

Bureau (Encs. - 2) IONOLOSURE

(1 - Liaison Section)

(1 - Cincinnati, 105-3048)

1 - Pariso

NWP: eim

(5)

2-6-98

5-30-48

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SID/SI

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(JFK) 14

REC- 54 105-117262-24

1& AUG 281965

MCT45

classified by.

Declassity. on:/

JOABR

DOW INLECT DIA'

VEC.O

* Excl

UnE 53 3 38 6M 262

Copy, to...

Cincixnati

by routing sin for

E info 8 action

a SEp 35-4

195 as lays.

I CRET

50100311

NH 50953 DocId: 32307179 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Chief, Consular Section

Liaison Section

9 August 1965

FROM:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

SUBUSAL:

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR,

Mirian Finkleman WINNER (OF WINER) RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCOPT BRACKENS

MKH 2-6-98

According to

the subject StIck

was born in Poland on february -e2; she became & Cuben citizen In 1945• 5-3600

Subject arrived In Madrid, Spain, on 12 May 1963, bearing Cuban passport

#34059 Isaued on 24 July 1956, Her last known address in Cuba was Ronde 17,

(TER)

Apt. 18, Habana.

The folloving is Subject's educational history:

JFK

LERO CONTAINED

1930 to 1936 - Primary school at ludwipol, Poland

1938 to 1942 - High school-Instituto Marianao, Babana

1942 to 1947 - Unlversity of Hbana (degree in Philosophy and Letters)

1958

- University of Columbia, New York (sumer school studying

German- Literature).

From 1956 to 1961, Subject was a professor of literature and languages

at the Central University in Sante Clara, Las Villas.

She held the same pom

sition from 1961 to 1962 at the University of labans. She reportedly speake

English, German and Spanish fluently.

On arrival in Madrid In 1963, Subject Ileted the following members of

her Immediate fanily:

Ans

Winner

-mother - 1800S. Treasure Drive, Miami Beach, Florida

Sam Denton

- brother

Same as above

Francis-lyons

- sister

- 14 Walton Street, Portland, Maine

Salomon finkelman - brother - 3105 SW 79th Avenue, Miami,

Plorida

Clara

Melaster

• sister

Man, Florida,

Julle Abranson

-niece

*57 State Road, Portland, Maine.-

Santa Clara,

Mangold Institute in Madrid.

He has no information concerning her present ad-

dress, however, he said Subject 1e believed to be living with an unidentifled

Cuban exile to ms a professor in las villas:

to Source's Inowledge,

they are

not married.

Source has no additional inforuation concerning Subject's cur-

rent activitles.

GROUP I

Excluded from

autonatie doungrading

and declassification

172100)

1057117441500 austbase

ION ZONTONE

ENCLOSURE

CONFIDENTIAL

521-10310

NH 50953 DocId: 32307179

Page 5

---

