124-90137-10064

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

Agency Information

4/16/201

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-90137-10061
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 105-84973-1
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: MM
TITLE:
DATE: 02/24/1960
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
PEL VECCHIO
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATEOF LASTREVIEW: — 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: | MEMO

v9
HW 50953 Docld:32337295

Page 1


i

Parsons
Belmont
Callahan
DeLoach

1 = Little
- 7

|
REC- 59/ a i

a OA. A ent

_ February 24, 1960

Eki9, E 7 ee
32 Director, FBE (105 -New) Fy ewte 6e
ce ac!
wie UN
Ganeaae PEL VECCHIO gob? ap BEES
ee H. R. VEJAL
4 A. BRUUA

NEUTRALITY MAITER
iS - BRAZIL = CUBA
goreh Ss

On 2/28/60 CIA advised Bureau via liaison ae

channels that fits representative in/Rio de Janeiro $)

Brazil, had received information from unidentified

Braztlien officials that captioned subjects are H

bresently in Miami, Florida, attempting to echerter '

@ plane to transport arms to an unknoun destination

in Brazil. These arms are glleged to be for “an

unknown Cuban enterprise. “

it was further stated one of the subjects
és wearing a Brazilian Army uniform and the Brazilian
officials are attempting to obtain additional details.
CIA has furntshed this ‘Service. ¢ gq the Bureau of

Customs, INS and Secret Services ta)

Bufiles fail to disclose references
identifiable with subjects.

£

a

Miami Office is instructed to check with
appropriate sources in an effort to identify subjects
and determine the purpose of their vistt to the
US. Bureau of Customs and INS should be contacted
to determine what, if any, information has been
developed regarding subjects’ identifications and
activities.

Lives
wen se (2-047

olson
Mohr

MeGutre
— SECRED

W.C, Sullivan f

Tele toy ag Af
sroce)-eo-MAR @, 8G acl

| PER 2 41960 |

| __com-ret

HW 50953 DocId:32337295 Page 2
