# 124-10280-10073

## Page 1

124-10280-10073

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10280-10073

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-228-2434

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 10/21/1976

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT:

OBA, CUBAN EXILE LEADER, ASSOC, VENEZUELA, BOMBING, CUBANA

AIRLINER

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

06/08/1998

STATUS

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HH 50953 DocId: 32302136 Page 1

---

## Page 2

LIGENCE

elligence Information

BOUT INE

IN

075224

WARNING NOTICE

PAGE 1 OFA PAGÈS

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

DIRECTORATE OF

OPERATIONS

SECRET

STATE/INR

JCS/MC

(SY /I/PIB)

IDLA

CIA/NMCC SWS NSA TREAS NSC/S SOO NIO CRS

FBI

SS/ID

Classified

by

Rosaled Reportitig Officer.

Exempt from

Category 58

(8),1

Impossible to Determine Dare or Au Entic Decisititation Schedule of E.O. 11652 Exemption

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

CITE TDFIRDB-315/10534-76

Political

MatteRs-

DIST 21 OCTOBER 1976

(u)

REPORT CLASS SECRE TOWARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED- NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORI CONSULTANT SE

DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

ORIGINATOR.

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

ADM. mArleNGS 7-21-94

RELEASE UP CIA IN ORMATION

FBI INFO

•COUNTRY&

VENEZUEL A/ CUBAN THIS DOCUMENTIETS

1

Classified by Sp 8 MAC/KSR,

- DO !

16 OCTOBER 1976 KPP

reclassity on:

OADR. (JFIC)

427-9751D KR 2-2198 JFK

SUBJECT

COMMENTS BY CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO VENEZUELA ON CUBAIS

INTENTIONS TOWARD THOSE IMPLICATED IN THE BOMBING OF

A CUBANA AIRLINER

AC O

VENEZUELA, CARACAS 119 OCTOBER 1976) FIELD NO.

7522

BOURGE: A YENEZUELAN ZUSINESSMAD ISH CLOSE CONTACTS TÀ JUSINESS.

GOVERNMENT • POLITICAL AND DIPLOMATIC CIRLES. HIS

2-2706

10/35

"" RELLABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED

Слва

ON 16 OCTOBER /2976 NORBERTOR ERN

CURBEL Ó.

CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO VENEZUELA, SAID THAT THE CUBAN

cuba

GOVERNMENT HOLDS' CUBAN EXILE LEADER.

ST-131LANDONB

AND

LU DON

SAD

AXCARRILESO A NATIVE-BORN TR

A VENEZUELAN CITIZEN DIRECT

venezuela

-BOMBING OF A CUBANA TRINER

56 NDV 161976

IS NOW

-228 2

4/34

RESPONSIBLE FOR

OCTOBER

FURTHERMORE, HERNANDEZ SAID THATOV 3 1976

3,7

NH 50953 DocId: 32302136 Page 2

---

## Page 3

280-10073

•

IN 075224

TDFIR DB-315/10534-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENSE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRETE CEIVED

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

(olasad

ELLIGENCE DIV.

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

UCT ZL

THE CUBAN GOVERNMENTINTENDS TO EXECUTE

BOSCH AND POSADA. EITHER

WITH OR WITHOUT DUE PROCESS OF THE LAW.

2, DESPITE HIS YEARS IN EXILE, BOSCH IS CONSIDERED BY!

THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT TO BE A CUBAN CITIZEN, HERNANDEZ SAID.

AND THE CUBANS WILL REQUEST THAT HE BE TURNED OVER TO THEM

FOR

PROSECUTION. IN THE CASE OF POSADA, HERNANDEZ SAID THAT

THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT WILL REQUEST, THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT

TO REVOKE HIS VENEZUELAN CSTIZENSHIP AND THEN TURN HIM OVER

TO CUBAN AUTHORITIES, IF THEY WERE TURNED OVER PHROUGH

LEGAL MEANS, HERNANDEZ SAID THAT BOTH BOSCH AND POSADA WOULD BE

GIVEN A QUICK TRIAL IN CUBA AND THEN EXECUTED WITHIN THREE HOURS.

SHOULD THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT BE UNABLE TO GAIN POSSESSION OF

BOSCH AND POSADA THROUGH LEGAL MEANS, THE CUBANS WILL TAKE STEPS

TO LIQUIDATE BOTHE

SOURCE COMMENTI HERNANDEZ DID NOT INDICATE WHETHER EITHER

BOSCH OR POSADA WOULD BE RETURNED TO CUBA FOR TRIAL IF ACCESS

TO THEM WAS OBTAINED EXTRA-OFFICIALLY, IN ANY CASE, HERNANDEZ.

SAID. THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT HAS DECIDED THAT BOSCH AND POSADA

MUST DIE FOR THEIR PART IN THE CUBANA DISASTER. (FIELD.

COMMENT: A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE INDEPENDENTLY REPORTED THAT

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32302136 Page 3

---

