124101964047 T mane

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10196-10477
RECORD SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 149-5378-9

ORIGINATOR:
FROM:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:
SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL
CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW_DATE:
STATUS

COMMENTS:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

FBI
SAC. MM
DIRECTOR. FBI

01/27/1968
14

AIRCRAFT, BOMBING, DAMAGE, SUSPECT, BOSCH, GUTIERREZ VIDAL,
ASSOC .

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret NEW ::
CLASSIFICATION:
02/13/1998 UPDATE _ DATE:
Redact .
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
JFK Act 6 (4)
INC GID NOTE

HW 50953 DocId:32287201 Page 1


: VIA TELETYPE
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

JAN2 71968 =f
NECLASSIFICATION AND/OR, ; s
RELEASE OF CIA INFORWATION ENCIPHERED

Gwe eho \7 SECRED

5/25 PM EST LAS
L/27/68
DIRECTOR AND NEW YORK

NEW YORK WASHINGTON ~~--ENCODED--=-
FROM MIAMI Fb oeT - FLORIDA

Unknown subject G@- 25 yr
UNSUBs EXPLOSION ABOARD 8 TWENEYEIVE CARGO AIRCRAFT NUMBER pe
ey
XB = MOP MIAMI INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, ONE TWENTY SIXTYEIGHT, ,°
Destruction cof Aircraft or Moter Vehicles. eoure Y A
Devi, CUBAN POWER, W&= CUBA. are i)
ie wr r)
REBUTEL TO MIAMI JANUARY TWENTYSIX LAST, UNDER FIRST i ew
: t
CAPTIONS MIAMI TEL JANUARY TWENTYFIVE LAST AND MIAMI AIRTEL ©, a .
Be
JANUARY TWENTYSIX LAST UNDER SECOND CAPTION. saa et ®

Centinl Tntelligerce Pgene
oR PERMISSION SECURED FROM OE FOR Tater TEW BY BUREAU AGENTS

oF[_
MIAMI, WHO Is OF HIGHLY OP. NAL INTEREST TO ee |
Seren ay mee a &
WAS 4 ON of OF JANUARY ae LAST, i" DVESED. AS
NS
FOLLOWS: | Ay aha beck 4

D
y Classified by
62. FEB 7 + 1558. Dectassiy on: — £3.
END PAGE ONE —t

XEROX | ure acs DELO/
JAN 1968 -

RELAYED TO_ Ww \e PTB

We FEB 2 1968

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN S08 (Fb?

HW 50953 DocId:32287201 Page 2



PAGE Two

ON DECEMBER FOURTEEN LAST, ORLANDG/BOSCHYAVILA , PROMINENT
|CUBAN EXILE LEADER,,WHO HEADS MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL
IDE_RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR), ADVISED SOURCE

CONFIDENTIALLY A NEW EXILE ORGANIZATION CALLED CUBAN POWER

WAS BEING CREATED BY "MY MEN IN NEW YORK CITY" AND INDICATED

HE WOULD FURNISH MORE rvmrion uss KU ee cha
ON JANUARY FIFTEEN LAST, JORGE/@ONZALEZ, WHA “BOMBILLA "<7

ONE OF BOSCK'S LIEUTENANTS IN MIRR-AND CHIEF OF MILITARY

ARM OF MIRR, ADVISED SOURCE HE WAS MEMBER OF CUBAN POWER,

WHOSE OBJECTIVE WAS STOPPING OF SENDING OF PARCELS TO CUBA.

HE REVEALED CUBAN POWER WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR BOMBINGS OF THE

POST OFFCES AT ELIZABETH, WL7ON DECEMBER FOUR LAST, NEW YORK

CITY ON DECEMBER NINE LAST AND HAVANA, CUBA, ON JANUARY

EIGHT LAST. HE SAID IN ADDITION, THEY HAD SENT EXPLOSIVE

PACKAGES TO "TRAITORS AMONG THE EXILES." GONZALEZ SAID TOP

LEADERS OF MIRR WERE RUNNING CUBAN POWER ORGANIZATION AND —

WITHIN SEVEN OR EIGHT DAYS THEY WERE GOING TO CAUSE AN EXPLOSION a4U))

END PAGE Two | ‘9 7" 9.

wate

HW 50953 DocId:32287201 Page 3


PAGE THREE

WHICH WOULD BE HEARD ALL OVER THE WORLD. GONZALEZ INDICATED
SOURCE WOULD BE FIRST TO BE TOLD OF THIS NEWS EVENT BEFORE
IT OCCURRED. IU)

SOURCE NOTED ABOVE MEETING WITH GONZALEZ WAS HELD AT
OFFICE OF CUBAN EXPRESS COMPANY MIAMI, A SHIPPING COMPANY

(smn IN SHIPMENT OF PARCELS TO CUBA, WHICH COMPANY IS

OWNED BY PAULINOMSUT LERREDYTIDAL . GUTIERREZ VIDAL, AS
WELL AS HIS SON, JORGEYGUT IERREZVOLLA , ARE MEMBERS OF MIRR OSA
AND CLOSE ASSOCIATES OF BOSCH. BOSCH FREQUENTLY MEETS WITH
MIRR MEMBERS AT CUBAN EXPRESS COMPANY OFFICES AND SOURCE
NOTED RECENT BOMBINGS BY CUBAN POWER MAY BE EFFORT TO ELIMINATE
COMPETITION, NOTING CUBAN EXPRESS COMPANY IS NOT ONE
OF THOSE COMPANIES BOMBED TO DATE. Ay)

ON JANUARY SIXTEEN LAST, SOURCE MET WITH BOSCH,
GUTIERREZ VIDAL AND ANOTHER UNKNOWN CUBAN MALE AT CUBAN EXPRESS .
COMPANY. BOSCH THEN CONFIRMED THAT A BOMB WOULD BE SET OFF BY
THEM WITHIN NEXT FEW DAYS AND STATED HE WAS THEN LEAVING FOR Su)

END PAGE THREE

HW 50953 DocId:32287201 Page 4


N

PAGE FOUR a

SOUTH MIAMI VIA HIGHWAY ONE TO PICK UP EXPLOSIVE. (4%)
ON JANUARY NINETEEN LAST, SOURCE CONTACTED GUTIERREZ VIDAL AND
WAS TOLD BY HIM THAT THE PLANE FROM MERIDA, MEXICO, WAS TO ARRIVE
ON THAT. DATE. HE REPORTEDLY TOLD SOURCE TO STAND BY FOR THE
NEXT TWENTYFOUR HOURS BECAUSE "WE WILL HAVE BIG
NEWS FOR YOU." GUTIERREZ VIDAL INDICATED HE HAD LEARNED OF
THE SCHEDULED ARRIVAL AND DEPARTURE TIMES OF THE PLANE FROM
MERIDA THROUGH CONTACT WITH FAUSTO DIAZ, LOCAL MANAGER OF
COMPANIA AREA DE CARGA YUCATAN. 4) U)
ON JANUARY TWENTY LAST AT THREE AN UNIDENTIFIED MALE
TELEPHONED HOME OF SOURCE AND TALKED WITH SOURCE’ WIFE,
ANGELA GARCIA DE ANGULO. THE CALLER STATED, “TELL ANGULO
WE PUT A BOMB ON THE PLANE FOR MERIDA,” AFTER WHICH HE HUNG UP.
MRS. ANGULO RECOGNIZED THE VOICE AS THAT OF ORLANDO BOSCH aurea. (YU)
AT SIX FIFTY AM, ON JANUARY TWENTY LAST, THE ABOVE MALE
AGAIN CALLED HOME OF SOURCE AND WAS TOLD THAT ANGULO HAD
LEFT FOR THE AIRPORT. MRS. ANGULO INQUIRED IF THIS WAS BOSCH
CALLING, AFTER WHICH,THE CALLER HUNG UP. oa U)
SOURCE WAS OF OPINION BOSCH DID NOT ACTUALLY PLACE BOMB
VE ‘PLANE: BUT THIS WAS PROBABLY errecten. ay: (WU
END PAGE FOUR ete ‘

Pe
ON THE B TWENTYF

HW 50953 DocId:32287201 Page 5


PAGE FIVE

also, know, as “)
JORGE GONZALEZ ,-4 ae »” AT BOSCH'S INSTRUCTIONS. Ow

ANGE GARCIA D NGULO INTERVIEWED BY BUREAU AGENTS
ON JANUARY TWENTYSIX LAST AND CONFIRMED ABOVE SLA
TELEPHONE CALLS RECEIVED BY HER AND THAT SHE RECOGNIZED THE

VOICE OF CALLER AS THAT i ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA. U)
also kno’ is

JORGE GONZALEZ PSBOMBILLA o” IS NOT IMMEDIA -
IDENTIFIABLE IN MIAMI FILES DUE TO COMMON vane C

Lrformetion TTS

NEW YORK NOTE “HIEQ IN PARAGRAPH THREE OF aa PHY ENCLOSED

WITH MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU, NINE aveNt a SIXTYSEVEN, CAPTIONED
also known ag

“JORGE GUTIERREZ, PKR JORGE LUIS SESASTIAN GUTIERREZ ULLA,
nyrernar SECURITY

JORGITO GUTIERREZ, Is“- CUBA.” fas sows “INFO RECEIVED FROM

CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE (WILLIAM SAMPOL, CONTACTED BY NEW YORK

OFFICE) THAT ORLANDO BOSCH WAS PRESENT AT MEETING OF CUBAN

NATIONALIST MOVEMENT (CNM) IN NEW YORK IN JUNE, SIXTYSEVEN,

AT WHICH PLANS WERE DISCUSSED FOR MILITARY ACTION AGAINST

CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN CANADA. BOSCH REPORTEDLY MADE REFERENCE TO ONE

GUTIERREZ IN MIAMI, NOT OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED, WHO POSSESSED

VARIOUS EXPLOSIVE DEVICES WHICH COULD BE USED IN CONNECTION

WITH FUTURE PLANS OF THE MIRR AND CNM RO U)

Lisitewect
ON 2A oe Open LAST, CX. SWILLEY, INTELLIGENCE
Fatice Department
DIVISION, MIAME ¢ R, WHO. HAS CERTAIN Sci SUSPE!
ovad: “

END PAGE FIVE Oe

HW 50953 DocId:32287201 Page 6


PAGE SIX

SURVEILLANCE IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTIGATION OF RECENT RASH
OF BOMBINGS, WAS FURNISHED NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF BOSCH,
GUTIERREZ VIDAL, GUTIERREZ ULLA, AS WELL AS NAME OF JORGE

‘also Known as
GONZALEZ, & “BOMBILLA,” AND WAS ADVISED INFO HAD BEEN RECEIVED

THEY WERE IMPLICATED IN RECENT BOMBINGS U :
NEW YORK conractILt ram SAMPO! IF Oa AND OTHER :
INFORMANTS FAMILIAR WITH CNM ORGANIZATION FOR INFO RE FORMING
OF CUBAN POWER AND ANY KNOWLEDGE OF BOMBINGS IN MIAMI BY
THIS GROUP.
INVESTIGATION CONTINUING BY MIAMI. COPIES AIR MAIL TO

Washington Fiel .
NEWARK AND whe” TM? Offiee

ic
FBI WASHeDC

\
'COMR. ROSEN V7tu Ae Deine ww)

HW 50953 DocId:32287201 Page 7


VIA TI

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CA INFORMATION

iN THe MEN fs SAwiNZED

NR eceee  Gehberter 5/25 PM EST Las

BIRECTOR AND NEW YORK
NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON ----ENCODED----

FROM MIAMI

A a
UNSUBs EXPLOSION ABOARD B TWENTYFIVE CARGO AIRCRAFT NUMBER ON
XB - MOP MIAMI INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, ONE TWERTY SIXTYEIGHT,
: '

DAMV, CUBAN POWER, IS ~ CUBA. :

REBUTEL TO MIAMI JANUARY TWENTYSIX LAST, UNDER FIRST
CAPTIONS MIAMI TEL JANUSRY TWENTYPIVE LAST AND MIAMI AIRTEL

JANUARY TWENTYSIX LAST UNDER SECOND CAPTION.

PERMISSION SECURED FROM CIA FOR INTERVIEW BY BUREAU AGENTS
or 12) |
HIAML, WHO IS OF HIGHLY OPERATIONAL INTEREST TO C14 fl (&)

. 4
WAS CONTACT NIGHT 9

NUARY TWESTYQX LAST AND ADVISED As

y
Frveé!

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HERERO
EXCESS WHEE
OTHERWISE

HW 50953 DocId:32287201 Page 8


COMRBEFHAL

PAGE Two

ON DECEMBER FOURTEEN LAST, ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, PROMINENT
CUBAN EXILE LEADER, WHO HEADS MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL
DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR), ADVISED SOURCE
CONFIDENTIALLY A NEW EXILE ORGANIZATION CALLED CUBAN POWER
WAS BEING CREATED BY "MY MEN IN NEW. YORK CITY" AND INDICATED
HE WOULD FURNISH MORE INFORMATION LATER. @) v)

ON JANUARY FIFTEEN LAST, JORGE GONZALEZ, AKA “BOMBILLA,”
ONE OF BOSCH'S LIEUTENANTS IN MIRR AND CHIEF OF MILITARY
ARM OF MIRR, ADVISED SOURCE RE WAS MEMBER OF CUBAN POWER,
WHOSE OBJECTIVE WAS STOPPING OF SENDING OF PARCELS TO CUBA.
KE REVEALED CUBAN POWER WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR BOMBINGS OF THE
POST GFFCES AT ELIZABETH, NJ, ON DECEMBER FOUR LAST, NEW YORK
CITY ON DECEMBER NINE LAST AND HAVANA, CUBA, ON JANUARY
EIGHT LAST. HE SAID IN ADDITION, THEY HAD SENT EXPLOSIVE
PACKAGES TO "TRAITORS AMONG THE EXILES." GONZALEZ SAID TOP
LEADERS OF MIRR WERE RUNNING CUBAN POWER ORGANIZATION AND
WITHIN SEVEN OR EIGHT DAYS THEY WERE GOING TO CAUSE AN exeLosron QX )(U)

END PAGE TWO

SECREL.

CONPBETYL cs

HW 50953 DocId:32287201 Page 9


a 2 St | lO
PAGE THREE COMBIDENT TAL

WHICH WOULD BE HEARD ALL OVER THE WORLD. GONZALEZ INDICATED
SOURCE WOULD BE FIRST 10 BE TOLD OF THIS NEWS EVENT BEFORE
IT OCCURRED. I )

SOURCE NOTED NBOVE MEETING ¥ITH GONZALEZ WAS RELD AT
OFFICE OF CUBAN EXPRESS COMPANY MIat}, A SHIPPING COMPANY
ENGAGED IN SHIPMENT OF PARCELS To CUBA, WHICH COMPASY 18
OWNED BY PAULINO GUTIERREZ VIDAL. GUTIERREZ VIDAL, As
WELL AS HIS SON, JORGE GUTIERREZ ULLA, ARE MEMBERS OF MIRR
AND CLOSE ASSOCIATES GF BOSCH, BOSCH FREQUENTLY MEETS WITH
MIRR MEMBERS AT CUBAN EXPRESS COMPANY OFFICES AND SOURCE
NOTED RECENT BOMBINGS BY CUBAN POWER NAY BE EFFORT TO ELIMINATE
COMPETITION, NOTING CUBAN EXPRESS COMPANY IS NOT ONE
OF THOSE COMPANIES BOMBED TO DATE. V)

ON JANUARY SIXTEEN LAST, SOURCE MET WITH BOSCH,

GUTIERREZ VIDAL AND ANOTHER UNKNOWN CUBAN MALE AT CUBAN EXPRESS
COMPANY. BOSCH THEN CONFIRMED THAT A BOMB WOULD BE SET OFF BY
THEN WITHIN NEXT FEW DAYS aND STATED HE Was THEN LEAVING FoR SY)

END PAGE THREE

HW 50953 Docld:32287201 Page 10



PAGE FOUR

SOUTH MIAME VIA HIGHWAY ONE TO PICK UP EXPLOSIVE. KU)
ON JANUARY NINETEEN LAST, SOURCE CONTACTED GUTIERREZ VIDAL AND
WAS TOLD BY HIM THAT THE PLAWE FROM MERIDA, MEXICO, WAS TO ARRIVE
ON THAT DATE. HE REPORTEDLY TOLD SOURCE TO STAND BY FOR THE
NEXT TWENTYFOUR HOURS BECAUSE "WE WILL HAVE BIG
NEWS FOR YOU.” GUTIERREZ VIDAL INDICATED HE HAD LEARNED OF
THE SCHEDULED ARRIVAL AND DEPARTURE TINES OF THE PLANE FROM
MERIDA THROUGH CONTACT WITH FAUSTO DIAZ, LOCAL MANAGER OF
COMPANIA AREA DE CARGA YUCATAN. 4 U)
ON JANUARY TWENTY LAST AT THREE AM AN UNIDENTIFIED MALE
TELEPHONED HOME OF SOURCE AND TALKED WITH SOURCE WIFE,
ANGELA GARCIA DE ANGULO. THE CALLER STATED, "TELL ANGULO
WE PUT a BOWE OW THE PLANE FOR MERIDA,” AFTER WHICH HE HUNG UP.
MRS. ANGULO RECOGNIZED THE VOICE AS THAT OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA. ww
AT SIX FIFTY AN, ON JANUARY TWENTY LAST, THE ABOVE MALE -
AGAIN CALLED HOME OF SOURCE AND WAS TOLD THAT ANGULO HaD
LEFT FOR THE AIRPORT. MRS. ANGULO INQUIRED 1F THIS WAS BOSCH
CALLING, AFTER WHICH THE CALLER HUNG uP OS) 4)
SOURCE WAS OF OPINION BOSCH DID NOT ACTUALLY PLACE BOMB
ON THE B TVENTYFIVE PLANE BUT THIS was PROBABLY:

END PAGE FOUR

HW 50953 DocId:32287201 Page 11


PAGE FIVE

JORGE GONZALEZ, AKA “BOMBILLA,” AT BOSCH'S INSTRUCTIONS. go)

ANGELA GARCIA DE ANGULO INTERVIEWED 8Y BUREAU AGENTS
ON JANUARY TWENTYSIX LAST AND CONFIRMED ABOVE
TELEPHONE CALLS RECEIVED BY HER AND THAT SHE RECOGNIZED THE
VOICE OF CALLER AS THAT OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, abu)

JORGE GONZALEZ AKA “BOMBILLA,” ITS NOT IMMEDIATELY
IDENTIFIABLE IN MIAMI FILES DUE TO COMMON NAME. aly,

NEW YORK NOTE INFO IN PARAGRAPH THREE OF MIAMI LHM ENCLOSED
WITH MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU, NINE TYENTYTYO SIXTYSEVEN, CAPTIONED
“JORGE GUTIERREZ, AKA JORGE LUIS SEBASTIAN GUTIERREZ ULLA,
HORGITO GUTIERREZ, IS - CUBA on frats SHOWS INFO RECEIVED FROM
CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE (WILLIAM SAMPOL, CONTACTED BY NEW YORK
OFFICE) THAT ORLANDO BOSCH WAS PRESENT AT MEETING OF CUBAN
NATIONALIST MOVEMENT (CNM) IN WEW YORK IN JUNE, SIXTYSEVEN,

AT WHICH PLANS WERE DISCUSSED FOR MILITARY ACTION AGAINST

CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN CANADA. BOSCH REPORTEDLY MADE REFERENCE TO ONE
GUTIERREZ IN MIAMI, NOT OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED, WHO POSSESSED
VARIOUS EXPLOSIVE DEVICES WHICH COULD BE USED IN CONNECTION

WITH FUTURE PLANS OF THE MIRR AND cnn AK) (U1)

ON JANUARY TWENTYSIX LAST, LT. SWILLEY,_

TELLIGENCE

%
DIVISION, MIAMI PD, WHO HAS CERTAHN*CUBAN SUSPECTS UNDER
END PAGE FIVE SECREE

HW 50953 Docld:32287201 Page 12



_ ORIG: MR. DELOACH FOR

PAGE SIX

SURVEILLANCE IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTIGATION OF RECENT RASH

OF BOMBINGS, WAS FURNISHED NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF BOSCH,
GUTIERREZ VIDAL, GUTIERREZ ULLA, AS WELL as NAME..OF JORGE
GONZALEZ, AKA “BOMBILLA,” AND WAS ADVISED INFO HAD BEEN RECEIVED

THEY WERE IMPLICATED If RECENT OU)
NEW YORK conracyfwiLt tas sanpork IF TLASLE, AND OTHER

INFORMANTS FAMILIAR WITH CNM ORGANIZATION FOR INFO RE FORMING
OF CUBAN POWER AND ANY KNOWLEDGE oF somalNes IN MIANI BY
THIS GROUP.

INVESTIGATION CONTINUING BY MIAMI. COPIES AIR MAIL TO

NEWARK AND WFO.

‘DIRECTOR

HW 50953 Docld:32287201 Page 13

