# 124-90106-10034

## Page 1

124-90106-10034

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90106-10034

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-117222-131

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

HQ

MM

DATE: 10/17/1963

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

COMMANDOS L

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:, AT

19.1

NN 70953

DooId: 32333178

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1 - Nasca

1

Anderson

10/17/63

Alrtel

CONADENTIAL

SECRET

BIA CAR VONE IN

DECLAIR CARON AND/OR,

RELEASE I CIA INFORMATION 5668-SLD/rude/2045 JFK

IN THE/ENUME SACOPIT Classified by Jea

KP 4-23-98

SAC, Miami (105-7054)

Ton benche's Declassify on DADROes

IN 1P 2

Director, FBI (105-117222) -

131

To:

From:

REC- 52

AaN24

COMANDOS I

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

E! "

12-ND-88

3-28-98

CLASS

213 CLASSIMED BY5T68 SUD/ISIL

не ветаю.

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

8/18/52.

Re CIA Information Reports dated 10/11/63 captioned

JFK)

"Planned Post-Hurricane Raid on Cuba by the Comandos I"' and 10/14/63

captioned "Schedule for a Comandos I Raid on Puerto Padre, Cuba, "

122 end Note

#211.326

both of which are self-explanatory.

(U)

For your confidential infornation, not to be disseminated

outside the Bureau, information has been received from CIA

indicating that pursuant to instructions from the White House,

CIA is currently exploring the possibilities of collaborating

with this organization in promoting activities directed against

the Castro government.

This will include raids on Cuba. All

such raids would be initiated from British territory in the

Bahamas and it will be necessary for

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan .

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel,

Trotter

Tale, Roon

Holmes

Gandy

Immediately check with CIA to see if CIA has operational

interest in raid set forth in referenced communications.

If' no

CIA interest,

check with Customs to determine if it is investigating

this matter

1 7.963

In

evento neither

factor is present, promptly check

sources and informants™

for any indication there is substance to

the allegation and keep Bureau currently advised of all developments.

_ LLA:klw

(5)

Who!

NOTE:

is planning

According to CIA, captioned anti-Castro organization

above action belleyed

to conduct raid on Cuba during Octoper, 1963.

warranted lat

this time.

The

* MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

HH 50953 DooId: 32333178 Page 2

---

