# 124-10222-10152

## Page 1

124-10222-10152

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10222-10152

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

97-4133-1ST NR 112

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

CIA

CIA

TITLE:"

DATE: 07/16/1964

' PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

MRR, ALLEDGES, US, GOVERNMENT, PROVIDED AID

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

19.1

NW 50953

DooId: 32298376 Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

TING ORIM

RIE P

VION

REPORT

... CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

material costains information nicotlag the Nailon! Detease of the United Siates withla tho meaning of the Esplonage Laws, Title

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba/Venezuela/Dominican Republic REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

Comments Regarding Cuban

Exile Activities

DATE DISTR.

CS-311/00614-64

16 July 1964

_copies madyO. PAGES

DATE OF

for review at FBIHQ by

REFERENCES

INFO.

2 June 1964.

PLACE &

HSCA 3•14.78

place chi 974133 (mer)

wl251120981ent?

DATE ACQ.

England, London

129 June

1964)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS. IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF. CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

rUTIaDIE, IN private conversation with

from a regular source, probably'

a Cuban exile who is

independent of any Cuban exile organization.

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 4/3/94

The general opinion among Cuban exiles is that the United States

Will not

encourage exile

groups to mount

until after the United States

a major assault on Cuba

elections.

2.

The United States,

the exiles say,

aid to the Movimiento de Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MRR,

ment for Revolutionary Recovery), which is led by Manuel Artime

Bresa. Some'exiles Claim that the attack by the MRR on Puerto

Pilon in May 1964 was launched from the Dominican Republic..

is no evidence that Artime is receiving support from

There

Government.

His

the Venezuelan

failure to establish personal contact with the

Administration (Venezuelan) during his visit to Caracas between

22-27 May 1964 has provoked criticism in government circles.

Some

disillusionment with the MRR is said to be caused by Artime's

failure

to establish himself as the undisputed leader of the

militant exile forces.

3.

Former Cúban President Carlos Prio Socarras is said to be giving

financial supcort to Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo,

the Alliance

paramilitary leader of

of

Second National Front of

th: Segundo Frente Nacional del Escambray (SENE,

the Escambray), the Movimiento

Revolu-

cionario del Pueblo (MRP, Revolutionary Movement of the People),,

and

Aipha-66.

Alliance fron

The purpose of the subsidy is to prevent the

JURE.

jorming close political or operational ties with

According

the left of ail other Cuban exile parties.

to Cuban exiles in Miami, JURE is politically to

Some exiles claim

that several Communists,

succeeded

in infiltrating JURE.

acting as agents for the Castro régime,

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSISICATION AND/OR.

MA INPORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. ExCEpT

Fon thE brAckETs

Im 6-75-91 S-E-0

510/RSR 8-2-97 JFK)

GROUP

FBI

ARMY

STATE

REPCINCLANT

CINCSO :#

(Note: Field distribusion indicated by "'*".)

L/NAYY

I&NS

INFORMA

ITIONI

OR T

REPO

RAT.

TINK FOR MAN 1A C

197

NH 50953 DocId: 32299376 Page 2

---

