# 124-10111-10141

## Page 1

1124-10111-10141

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORMI

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10111-10141

RECORD_SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109090-1ST NR 457

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, WMFO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/15/1965

- PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

WC, REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

10/29/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/23/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NH 50953

DocId: 32155889

Page 1

---

## Page 2

9/25/98

CLASSIFIED BY 5668-SL0/ruds

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X 0)

6/75/55

DIABCTOR, FBI (205-23375 SECRET

SAC, WFO (105-61285) (800)

HENDI! TO:

PRONE SONN OC

NICOLAS MICHATLOVICH MITROP ANOV

IS A

(00 :CV)

770454.

Can, Sph-B

ande

Ducturalia mis 0A0H

I2/89

BeCVlet dated 4/30/65.

Translator,

Institute of lodern Languages, Incorporated,

On 6/1/65, MIKHAIL STEPAN SOTATEY 1322 18th Street,

1. We. advined SAW. SCOTT JARISIT, JR. that during 1946-47

while a displaced person at saltsburg,

Austria, he was the

editor of an anti-comunist publication called

the "Flame.

SOLOVINy roalled that during this time subjeet was on the

Start of this put fontion

and contribited anti-comminiet

articles designed to discourage displaced persons from

returning to Rate.

SOLOVIEV commented that the Rusalans

In the Soviet Sector made strong proteste to the Americans

regarding these pablloations.

SOLOVIV stated that in about 1948 subject immigrated

to chile.

SOLOVIEV did not know subject prior to 2946-47

and knows nothing of his background prior to this time.

SOLOVITY subsequently Immigrated to the U.S. and did not hear

of or from subjeot until about tuo years ago when he

corresponded with the subjeat, During thia correspondence

aubject asted him 1f be would recommend that subjeot come to

the U.s, SOLOVIE told him it would not be easy but that he

would find a place.

SOLOVIKY stated that after immigration to U. S. and

while subjeat was at the Univernity of Inryland,

about two yalal

430,

he had occasion to mut and tall with subject.

At this

time subjeet stated he had been assoclated with the Univn

of Chile In rosarah work as a Professor of Physica

lso understood that subjeet did rusearch work

overnment of Bruail and sould spend three of

vear in brazil on this researen.

ORIGINAL FILED IN

2 - Bureau

- Cleveland (105-9372)

1

(5)

162-109090 - 15tNRaftes 457

NOT RECORDED

199 JUN 28 1965

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASTIFICATION ANDIOR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMACION

HH 50953

DocId: 32155889

Page 2

---

## Page 3

WFO: 105-62250

SECREL

SOLOVIEV again saw subject in March, 1965, at

which time aubject atated he was working in Cleveland.

Subject commented he enjoyed his work but was somewhat

remorseful that he is the oldest man in the project.

As a result of his association with the subject,

SoLovis was of the opinion subject is strongy

anti-communist; hated the communist system and most certainly

would have no association or connection with organizations

attempting to repatriate persone to the USSR,

He stated

he felt certain subject would report to the FBI any contacts

or approaches which might be made to him by Soviet

intelligence personnel or otherwise.

By way of background SOLOVIEV was associated with

lin. Washington, D. C*

*, and overseas CS.

however, no longer connected with l

For a persod or about t Care since the 10501e. 1esCS]

expired and its program discontinued (5) TORT

He has recently completed a

translation of the

Warren Commiasion Report on the assassination of president

KENNEDY Into Kissian In his present employment.

tronslation was not done for the Warren Coumission,

SECRET

NH 50953

DocId: 32155889

Page

• 3

---

