# 124-90137-10322

## Page 1

124-90137-10322

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90137-10322

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-120421-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE:

DATE: 05/01/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

ESTHER DE RODRIGUEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENIS: MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

DooId: 32337556

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Diroctor

Contral Intelligence Agend

and to determine 18 she

has romained there ainee.

nga0

to also

desired

tor full

records

1 be made.

mad (92(1)

that a nore conplete check of our

и)

1 • Tho

Cormlosioner

Ingration and

Naturalisation Sorvico

1 • Director

Bureau of

Intelligonce and Researoh

Dopartment of State

ATTENTION:

SACS, MIAMI, NEW YORK AND WEO AND LEGAL ATTACHES.

MADRID

AND ROME

4) C0

Single copies of CIA letter 441/63

are enclosed for

each

office.

WO should make expeditious chocks with Central Office,

INS, and State Department for any identifying information

concerning subject and her husband. Miaml and New York should

make sinilar checks with INS locally and New York should also

at the U. S. United Nations Mission

Fositive data

developed should be subnitted in

menorandum suitable for dissemination.

NOTE:

Classified "Secret" since information received from

CIA waS

classified and since the data concorning Ester

Rodriquer colon was received from

under The

same classification.

CIA

reported that a usually reliable sensitive source has learned

that subject, vile of the first Secretary of Cuban Embassy in

Montevideo,

Uruguay, had spent four months clandestinely in

the U,s. at an unspecilied period.

CIA claimed its source is

unable to obtain or furnish any additional information.

had been previously advised that the subject's husband

scheduled to arrive in Montevideo in November, 1962, with his

wife, two children and an employee naned Maria Teresa Rivalta

SECREE

AW 50953

DocId: 32337556 Page 2

---

