# 124-90140-10036

## Page 1

124-90140-10036|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90140-10036

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-4351-152

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE:

DATE: 12/21/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

DooId:32338079

12

Page 1

---

## Page 2

-ad incid

1

Liaison

Go Co MoOre

Meter

SIA HAS NO PRECHON 1O

REcLAnardanod AMa/ca

RELEASE A A INFORMATION •

IN THIS DRAGUMENT, EXCEPT FOR

BRACKETS

95/04351

KP 5-18-98

SECRET

COPLES MADE

- 7-28*

PANICIA

TOR REVIDY

ISCA RE

REQUEST.

(SEE BUFILE #62-117300)

Dates

December 21, 1961

208

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Attentions Deputy Director,

Plans

From:

John Edgar Hoover, Director

Sclassify on

Subjects

ALIGUEL ANLONIO SANCHES RAMOS

INTERNAL SECURITY • DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 5668-540

REGISTRATION ACT • DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

ALI, INFORMATION CONTA: SED

HEFFIN IS UNCLASSIPIED EXCEPT

THERE SHOWN OTHERWiSE.

captioned individual's octiuities in the past have

been such as to render him possibly liable to register with

the Attorney General of the United States in accordance

7-4-98

with provisions of Seotions 851-857, Title 50, United Stotes

SED ISR

Code or of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as

amended.

In view of your present interest in this indiuidual,

any application of the exception proutaions contained in

5668

Sectione 851-857.

Title 50, United States Code is

being left

to your atsoretton. (YU)

CLASSIFIED BY

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(6)

NOTE®

subject is a defected agent of the Dominican Intellig

serwice uno was contacted by our New York office on numerou

occasions from 11/c0/00 to 10/1/010

On 3/3/61:the Director

excepted him from

the requirements of sections 851-857, Title 50,

Uoso

Code, which require that persons who have received training)

in espionage service of a foreign country shall register with

the Attorney Genexal.

REC- 6

97= 43510

15₴

Tolson

On 11/21/60 the Department rendered an opinion that

Belmont

once an inazuidual had been excepted from registration ne coula

Mohr

Callahan

not, thereafter, be required to register far the some actlufio

Conrad

DeLoach

BY COURIER SCR

evans

S.1 DEG

SEE. NOTE CONTINUED PAGE

«REDEMATION

2022

ROSALS IN UNCL

Sullivan

Taveler Honk

Teleshdan

Ingram

Gandy

MAIL

58 DEC 291981

TELETYPE UNIT

PRES

1geg SEC

HW 50953

DocId: 32338079

Page 2

---

## Page 3

p0 3800

SECREI

Director

GECHEL

C'entral Intélligence Agency (Su)

NOLE CONTINUED:

subject is of no further value to us.

Regarding such an

individual, our policy has been to refer pertinent facts

concerning him to the Department once the necessity for

concealing his identity had expired.

We turned sybject over

he has been employed

Bu directing above letter

find since 10/3/62 5)

are putting

on notice that any responsibility for exception of

subject from the

provisions of the Registration Act now

lies with

Letter is classified "Top Secret" since it concerns

a double agent operation of CIA and sets out agent's identity. (SU)

SECRET 19. dEES

SEC

TOP SEC

12 030

183

WVW 0.930

HW 50953

DocId:32338079

Page

3

---

