# 124-90138-10055

## Page 1

124-90138-10055|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90138-10055

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-66491-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PAPICH

TO:

LALLIER

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/14/1961

ALBERT BURKE

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

INH 50953

DocId: 32337786 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

UNITED STATES GOVE

Memorandum

gill

FROM

Mr. L'Allier

S. J. papick

SECREA

DATE: February 14, 1961.

GIA MAS NO ARISOTION TO

DECLARE CALE AND/OR

FELEASE GA NIA INFORMATION

Tolson

Parsons

Mohr _

Belmont

Callahan

Conrad

Del.oach

Evans.

Mal one

Rosen .

Tavel -

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room -

Ingram -

Gandy .

SUBJECT:

INFORMATION CONCERNING

thE bRAcEs

The captioned individual recently presented -7

concerning the political situation in Cuba.

Since then

initiated a program dealing with Dynamics of Communism in sele

Internal Security Section was interested in establishing

nature and extent of Central Intelligence Agency's (CIA) relation-

Ship with

Sthe following information was furnished to the

Laison Agent on

February 10, 1961, by Steve Kuhn and Mrs. Jane

Roman of CIA

KORDIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

SHOWN

EXODPT WHERE

SE

OSHERWI

as never been an employee of cia. in the past th

Agency has utilized him on a contract basis when

as in The

position to develop positive intelligence information during the

course of his foreign travels.

He is not controlled by CLA and

the Agency is in no way involved with his IV programs,

is currently employed by the Metropolitan Broadcasting Company.

recently called on CIA and inquired if he could

be furnishea

material for his program on ("Dynamics of Communism."S)

CIA made available to him unclassified material such as pamphlets

and certain books.

CIA does not possess any derogatory information

concerning

(e)No data has been received by the Agency indicating

that he is a Soviet Agent or that he is acting on behalf of the

Communist Party, U.S.A.

ACTION:

863/110

8/3/93

Classified

lac

The above information is being directed to the attention

of the Internal Security SectionRECI

65-66491=

4-8-48

Di5P: ban ban CLASSIFERBY 5/6108.

SL0/|SS82 FEB 17 1961

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

- Mr. Baumgardner

Mr. LaPrade

(JFK)

1

- Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich

- COPIES MADE

DATE 6-1.38 8BN

PApiCH .

FOB REVIEW AT FBING AND/OR DELIVERY

TO NSCA BE REQUEST GATED 4-220.-

(SEE BUFILE 62-117290)

menio

62 FEB 21 1961

SECRETO

65-664915

HW 50953 DocId:32337786 Page 2

---

