# 124-10217-10492

## Page 1

124-10217-10492

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10217-10492

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

105-114543-16

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 03/28/1963

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

JURE, EXILED LEADERSHIP, INTERNAL SABOTAGE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NH 50953

11

DocId: 32296716

Page 1

---

## Page 2

COUNTRY

LEGRAM INCORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

contains

information

the National Defense of the United States

the meaning

Of the Espionago Laws, Title 18. USC Secs.

794,

transmission

or revelation

of which in any manner to an unauthorized person. is prohibited

by law,

CLASSIFICATION: DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

(When Filled In)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

LATIN AMERICA

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

ORGANIZATION AND ACTIVITIES OF CUBAN

RESISTANCE MOVEMENT

DATE DISTR.

TDCS -3/541,997

28. MARCH 1963

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

DATE

INFO

PLACE &

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

28 MARCH: 1963 HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE /0-13-94 BY 508. MAC

ENGLAND, LONDON (28 MARCH

REFERENCES

96384

DATE ACQ.

FIELD REPORT NO.

DEL 35,044

APPRAISAL

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

(5)

FROM "REGULAR SOURCE, PROBABLY RELIABLE, QUOTING

ORLANDO CASTRO

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO /

Junto Revolacionaria

/LL DECLASSIFICATION ND/OR.A

PELEASE DE CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

1: IN EARLY MARCH, ORLANDO/CASTRO, HEAD OF PROPAGANDA ELATES ThE

Jm 6.25.971

DIVISION OF JURE. AND ITS REPRESENTATIVE IN VENEZUELA, REVEALED

SIDIKSK

18-2-97

THAT JURE'S

PRINCIPAL LEADERS OUTSIDE CUBA WERE:

JFK

MANOLO

cube

Leader of Jure

RAUL/CHIBAS - FORMER OFEICER IN CASTRO'S REBEL ARMY, QUEE

NOW RESIDENT NEWORK. HE CONTROLS

PLANNING 046

MILITARY OPERATIONREC- 61 / 05-1143

ROSEE DEISNEROS -

SIỀNT IN MIAMI.

3 1963

COORDINATOR JURE'S CUS

Florida

• UNDERGROUND ACTIVELES IN CUBA;

JOSE/COMEZ - FORMERLY OF CTC (CONFEDERACION DE Tinia jadores

DiCe

GROUP 1

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMIN

ATION CONTROLS

SECRET,

miami, Florida

FOREIGN DISSEM

Encluded from euromatis

downgroding and

declosufication

SEEDENSA.

NIC

AID

US 1A

OC I

ONE

OCR

FBI

I&NS • TREASURY

REPORT

ORR

0811'00

REPCINCLANT

TELEGRAM

EXO

STATE/ INR

DIA

ARMY/ ACS.

TE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION

hy routing slip for

info

action

169

date...

by....

105-114543

(15-20)

1963

NN 70953

DocId: 32296716 Page 2

---

## Page 3

121710492

SECRET

(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

MAR 29

IN

PAGE

96384

2

TRABAJADORES DE CUBA).

RESIDENT IN. MIAMI:

I ESPECIALIST

IN TRADE UNION AFFAIRS;

ORLANDO CASTRO - RESIDENT IN CARACAS;

Juve

TOSERSAN MARTIN - RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO.

FORMER MEMBER

GRAU MARTIN'S PARTIDO AUTENTICO.

JURE IS ENCOURAGED BY INCREASING SUPPORT FOR ITS

THESIS THAT INTERNAL RESISTANCE ALONE WILL BE EFFECTIVE IN

OVERTHROWING CASTRO. JURE RECEIVES FIRM BACKING FROM THE

CONFEDERACION DE TRABAJADORES VENEZOLANOS (CTV), WHICH ALSO

PROMOTES SUPPORT FOR JURE FROM OTHER LATIN AMERICAN LABOR

LEADERS. IT IS ANTICIPATED CTV WILL SOON GRANT FINANCIAL AID

TO JURE•

3. AT A MEETING OF TRADE UNION LEADERS IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

IN LATE FEBRUARY 63, IT WAS ALSO AGREED THAT ONLY INTERNAL: :

INSURRECTION WILL SOLVE THE CUBAN PROBLEM.. ALTHOUGH JURE

WAS NOT MENTIONED BY NAME AND NO OFFERS OF AID WERE MADE,.

JURE. IS ENCOURAGED BY THIS DEVELOPMENT. MEETING WAS ATTENDED

BY ANGEL

MAOLAN DE. THE PARTIDO REVOLUCIONARIO DOMINICANO

.?

(PRD) s

DY ARTURO KAUREGUI DE THE ORGANIZACION REGIONAL

INTERAMER I CANA DE RABAJADORES (ORIT), AND BY REPRESENTATIVES

Domincon

OF: CTV AND THE PUERTO RICAN UNIONS.

Reseblie

4.: GOVERNOR MUNOZ MARIN OF PUERTO RICO IS ALSO A FIRM

SUPPORTER OF JURE.

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NH 50953 DocId: 32296716 Page 3

---

