124-10285-10254)

JFK Assassination System,
Identification Form

Date:

6/5/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD-NUMBER: —124-10285-10254
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: SEE TITLE
Document Information.
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: SAC,MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE: — [Restricted]
DATE: — 03/23/1967
PAGES: 10
SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1A; 1B; 10; 4

Redact

10/14/1998

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

INC LHM, MEMO

vol

HW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 1


4/3/67 |

SCRE

airtel
. 1 - Mr. DeBuck

SAC, Miami )
WAG
Director, FBI inroads :

Reurairtel and LHM both dated 3/23/67.

You authorized to naval intormant ss to his
Cuban prancioa the information set forth in-r

NOTE:
[E1earance for passage} was obtained by Liaison Section
3/30/67. : )

ED ay uaa pope
"YON: 25X_G Le).
Y yuleg
“TAILED 19 ~“}
MAR 311967 |
oceans SOMMER E ou a)

HW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 2

HLD:brrj _,” ) |
@) iT =. [|

Ul

Dist | |
(| Seopa rine {



FD-38 (fey. s822-64) 4 : ie 1S
nn > CONFIDENTIAL c
: ae March 23, 1967

Transmit the following. in

“¥F ype in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL AIR MAIL

(Priority)

TO: DIRECTOR, FB.

,
FROM: SAC, MIAMI

RE:

ReMiamilet 2/20/67.

I instructions concerning the '

andling of here are attached hereto the
original an copies of“a letterhead memorandum, The j ‘
ifi 1 i

cf,
letterhead memorandum_has , fin LA. L~
order to protect thi £ con-
tinuing value to th :

] (®
sS set forth in referenced letter

requested him to furnish informat :
ry '

ion y basis concerning anti-CASTRO activities in the U.

h sitine Miami Office will have
and the Miami Office will forward
information set out in the attached
This inf i

letter co:
ead

\
&
J Sa
Salih not| make the information
& availa ti April 7, 1967 $)
ar) 3
cy (3) - Bureau (Encl, - 49) (AM ~ Raf)
g 1 - Miami Ls
Sy JEM:ems py a Anat
K (4) aad
ce atomed wr D

e GHAPRA agf,
ES K oak

Approved:

Spe: Agent in Charge

HW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 3


SFCRH
die Gio QD!

; has been assigned to
ts)

SAFI ETAS ana ing|

a
ne : against E| “6 ie was réquest-
ed by| Obtain information relgt-
ing to anti-Castro activities in the United states #0)

_. Through his contacts with anti-Castro
obtaines @ in ee the following information was

bove

obtained;

A meeting of anti-Castro,.leaders was held:
recently at the home of PalayoX arcia, Manuel
“S(fernandez.. former_Secretary_of—Labor—in—Cuba,— -
ae ane acted as chairman, and the meeting was at
by former Castro officials, such*as Manu }
Manued{Ray, FelipésRazos, RaujfChibas, Rufos
wEresquet, n. sa, Elena yiederos, and Efréu..
X nzalez. }

~ At the meeting, | Fernandez/ suggested that
( a committee be formed and efforts made to have'
the committee travel to Cuba for a conference
with Cuban officials, in order to discuss the
\ a release of political prisoners. It was believed
aN ) \) “that the discussion concerning political prisoners
- & could’ be expanded to include a discussion of .
“NS |, differences between Cuba and the United States.
. ‘Those in attendance agreed that such a discussion
would be timely, inasmuch as it appears that Fidel
Castro is not completely satisfieé ith Cuba's
relations with the Soviet Union. ia the discuss-
» ion of the relations between Cuba d the United

States should prove ProspatAtccPHae
: : DEC!

HW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 4



Beould then be communicated by the committee to
the United States Government, in a hope of
bringing about a state of coexistence between

K Cuba and the United StatexiO)

4 sted that
for o furnish is data

This information Should not be disseminated.

= 2k =

HW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 5


nN

1

x "FI iis,
(oO) ,

ing ened 9.

3) He was request-

a Cuban‘
against
ed by vOptaiIn information rela

ing to anti-Castro activities in the United States, &

._ Through his contacts with anti-Castro
individuals in Miami, the following information was
obtained: em ;

c A meeting of anti-Castro leaders was held

recently at the home of Palayo Garcia. Manuel
’ Fernandez, former Secretary of Labor in Cuba,

acted as Chairman, and the meeting was’ attended
by former Castro officials, such. as Manuel Urrutia,
Manuel Ray, Felipe Pazos, Raul Chibas, Rufo Lopez
-Fresquet, Danilo Mesa, Elena Mederos, “and Efreu
Gonzalez. Fy J

At the meeting,. Fernandez suggested that
a committee be formed and efforts made to have
the committee travel to Cuba for. a conference
with Cuban officials, in order to discuss the
release of political prisoners. It was believed
that the discussion concerning political prisoners’
could be expanded to include a discussion of
differences between Cuba and the United States.
Those in attendance agreed that such a discussion
would be timely, inasmuch as it appears that Fidel
Castro is not completely satisfie bade Cuba's
relations with the Soviet Union. the discuss-
ion of the relations between Cuba ana the Unite,
States should prove productive, such information w)

x

7

HW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 6

if



Keould then be communicated by the committee to
the United States Government, in a‘hope of

é bringing about a state of ‘tence between

x i Cuba and the United States ene

a ested that
for to furnish

3)

This information should not be disseminated,

\ / : Z

HW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 7


a ;
i He ~

Co
— CONED Ria : oe

MAR 23 y967

‘SECRET

frisurace: (s > j

a, : aaa
as been assigned to

ac es are being bb :

He was request-—

ed by| [fo obtain information relgt-

ing t mti-Castro activities in the United States‘
Through his contacts with anti-Castro ‘

individuals’ in Miami, the following information was
obtained: CA/ul :

A meeting of anti-Castro leaders was held
recently at the home of Palayo Garcia. Manuel’
Fernandez, former Secretary of Labor in Cuba,
acted as chairman, and the meeting was attended
by former Castro officials, such as Manuel Urrutia,
Manuel Ray, Felipe Pazos, Raul Chibas, Rufo Lopez

iS Fresquet, Danilg Mesa, Elena Mederos, and Efreu
x& Gonzalez, uy}. it :

At the meeting, Fernandez suggested that
a committee be formed and efforts made to have ‘
the committee travel to Cuba for a conference
with Cuban officials, in order to discuss the |
release of political prisoners, It was believed
that the discussion concerning political prisoners
could be expanded to include a discussion of
differences between Cuba and the United States,
Those in attendance agreed that such a discussion
would be timely, inasmuch as it appears that Fidel -
Castro is not completely satisfied with Cuba's
relations, with the Soviet Union, €If the discuss-
ion of the relations between Cuba and the United
States should prove productive, such informatio’ eo
— :

— cONPBEgIIAL

HW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 8


=

for

RHE ©

Kou1a then be communicated by the committee to
the United States Government, in a hope of.
bringing about a state of c 7 vad between

Cuba and the United States

: ested that
) ito furnish this data to
Ee ’

This information, should not be disseminated.

(

- Qe =

SECRET

iit a

HW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 9


7)
) mae
lienennen has. been a
a are _heing )

again: “ He was request-
ed b; fo obtain information relat-
ing to anti-Castro activities in the United States. d

,. Through his contacts with anti-Castro
individuals,i iami, the following information was
obtained: itul fe

A meeting of anti-Castro leaders was held ~
recently at the home of Palayo Garcia, Manuel
. Fernandez, former Secretary of Labor in Cuba,
acted as chairman, and the meeting was attended
by former Castro officials, such as Manuel Urrutia,
: Manuel Ray, Felipe Pazos, Raul Chibas, Rufo Lopez
Fresquet, ilo Mesa, Elena Mederos, and Efreu
Gonzalez, w) :

At the meeting, Fernandez suggested that
a committee be formed and efforts made to have-
the committee travel to Cuba for a conference
with Cuban officials, in order to discuss the
release of political prisoners. It was beliéved
that the discussion concerning political prisoners
could be expanded to include a discussion of
differences between Cuba and the United States.
Those in attendance agreed.that such a discussion
would be timely, inasmuch as it appears that Fidel
Castro is not completely satisfied with Cuba's
relations with the Soviet Union, kit the discuss-
ion of the relations between Cuba and the United
States should prove productive, such information

: : —

ofr

HW 50953 Docld:32304242 Page 10


CS conayra.

feoula then be communicated by the committee to
the United States Government, in a ‘hope of
bringing about a state of 09 Gore . between
Cuba and the United State:

ested that )
fo: a furnish—cmrs—cata

This information should not be disseminated.

HW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 11
