# 124-10058-10418

## Page 1

124-10058-10418]

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

11/17/20

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10058-10418

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-1ST NR 2928

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LEG, PA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/01/1964

PAGES:

3.

SUBJECTS:

JFK, ASSA, OPINION, ARTICLES, BUCHANAN, THOMAS

GITTINGS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/10/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

NA 92333 DocId: 32138902 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Do OPPONE DOM NO. 10

=: UNITED STATE

*'ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

:Director, FBI

DATE: 4-1-64

FROM : Logat, Parts (100-1793) (P.)

SUBJECT:

THOMAS GITTINGS BUCHANANJ JR.

SM-C

Bufile 100-354341

PaIis 100-1793

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN T. KENNEDY

7727-.to m

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENRI

NOVEMBER 22, 1963

DALLAS, TEXAS

(K 3/18/98)

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

Buffle 62-109060

5-15-92%

Paris 62-148

Re Paris letter 3-20-64.

5-6-92

latest article In the series by THOlAS GIfTINGS BUCHAlAN, Ja

There is enclosed for the bureau a copy of they. 3p/

BRACETON

which appeared in "L'Express" on 3-26-64.

22 Pro on a asiat i a prote 094 to the e

Da.as and states that they used gangsters

city. Without their concurrence, according to BUCHANAN,

OSWALD would never have been able to have obtained employment

In Dallas.

BUCHANAN describes the menbers of the ballas

Council as being the wealthy and influential people behind

the scenes in that community and states that seven members

of the Council represent the "cream" of the influential

citizens of Dallas. In the latter group he mentions H. I.

HUNT, his Son LAMAR HUNT, aS Well as CLINTON and JOHN MURCHISON.

thereatter, BUCHANAN discusses the background and bustness

lealings of HUNT as well as his relations with General EDIII

WALKER and the John Birch Soclety BUCHANAN also goes Into

8 - Bureau (Enc. 1)

(1 - Liaison section

1 - Baltimore, 100-12596

112 10906d

1 - Dallas

NOI RECORDED

• Hashington tield

100-19194) 199 APR 17 1967

2 - Paris (100-1793; 62-148)

CONTAINED

NEP SHD

(10)

•OTENT IT

aid shew!

O/NONWISE

6948:619049

UR After 2428

HH 52333 DooId:32138902 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Paris 100-1793

SECRET

On 3-24-641

advised that his

JIlIce had received intormation that

BUCHANAN reportedly is presently employed, on an installation

of Bull office machines being usedrby the Prefecture oi

Police in Paris.

This information has been furnished to the

prefecture of Police, and while their inquiry is continuings

preliminary results would indicate that the report is untrue.

In this connection, a copy of the memorandum captioned

THOMAS GITTINGS BUCHANAN, JR., which sets forth

background

information concerning him appearing in Bufiles, and which

was transmitted to the Paris Office by Bulet to Baltimore

3-19-64, was made available to the Prefecture of police.

It appears that the information contained in the memorandum

would be of interest to the Ambassador, RALPH SMITH of the

local office of U.S.I.S.- the Direction de la Surveillance

du Territoire (Darl

anach fomestic counterespionage service,

are therefore furnishing

orpses us that memorandum to them.

As mentioned previously, we will continue to

follow this matter closely and promptly transmit to the

Bureau any pertinent information of interest.

=. 3

SECRET:

28- 10118

J2333

DocId: 32138902 Page 3

---

