# 124-10185-10098_12

## Page 1

124-10185-10098

TRITED STATES COVERNMANL

IEMORANDUM

• TO

FROM

Directors FBI

SAC, Philadelphia

* SISJECE:

JFK(1)LB)L

INFORMANEON CONCERNINE

JFK (1)(0)

Re Section (E)s SAC Letter 65-54, 9/28/65.

Chief,

DATE:

10/25/6b

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED.

HEREIN IS UNCTASSIFIED

office,

JFK(I)(8)

JFKLINES

To .

Arrangements were perfected whersin Agents of this

fice making Inquiries or Investigations of a soviet-Bloe li

=.nsl car contactl

he will place then in contact

kath

ths

Jer Treprasentative randling the

JPK (IXB),

ay irepration comes to the abetion of that be secured.

Trelating to our Internal security respcasibillties will

be immediately reported to this office.

requested, In view or his Agency's regu

latices, that

not be

Identified as the source in the event

(D(3)

---

## Page 2

information received from his office should be included in a

conmunication going to anyone outside the bureau.

was assured thatl

In this regard would be fully

protected.

JFK(I(S)

He suggested the same

procedure be followed for cases in

as is contemplated for the

Joffice territory:

that is, that this office contact him, lurnishing the identity

of the subject and the name and location of the special Agent

hendling the case.

He then will have his representetive cover

ing the aroa contest the FBI Agent and they then can discuss

information of mutual interest on the case. He advised that

e Where the bulk

and

uL unese caver are tocated in

covers the

REQUEST OF THE BUREAU:

In the course of future contacts

111 these

cases, it 1s anticipated that

may at times

request information relating to subjects' background, habits,

and characteristics, as well as any available photographs.

The Bureau 1s requested to auvise 1f 1t will be per-

rissible to orally furnish such background irformation to the

and to furnish copies of phocgraphs, 1f

they are available.

The Bureau 1s also requested to advise if the establish

sent of llaison on the field office level with

envisages the furnishing of reports and letter-

head memos to this Service at the field office level where they

have a legitimate Interest in the subject.

- 2 .

---

