# 124-90137-10174

## Page 1

124-90137-10174

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90137-10174

HQ

CR 105-97601-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE:

DATE: 05/11/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

RAMON MENDEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

N9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32337408

Page

1

---

## Page 2

S30722

2%

•Liaison section

--Mro Dunn

REC- 4

CIF HAS NO CRISPTICH TO

105-97602--

105

Dates

20đ

Boy Ils 1961

Director

Central Intolligence Agency

4(4)

LAttention® Deputy Director,

Plans

John Bagar Hoover, Director

RALION WINDES

INTERIAL SECURITY • GUBI

RELEASE ON EN IN ORLATORE

IN THIS DORME, ENCEPT FOR thE

BRACKETS

K8 3-19-98

ALS INFURRATION CUNTALACL

ETROIN IS UNCLASSIFIEN

• SHOWN

EXCE/T THRAS

8/35/93

Subjecte

Classie boy 980 sa/sel

74,336

Declass des 0x-95 (JFK)

Reference is node to the Foreiyn service

Despaten

Number 284 dated larch 22, 1901s fron the American Conculade,

Kingston, Jamaica, Brtish Vest Indles,

to the Departnent of

Washington, Do Go, entitled "List from CID."

subject in mentioned, in paragraph tuo of this Despoich.

(u)

A confidential source uno has furnished reliable

invornation in the past advised our Mioni, Flories, Office that

Baron Iglesias Vasallo received nail ot 2536 houthwest Eleventh

Street, Lion, in the none of Ranon Mendez.

Our source advised

that Igleatue was o nenber of the trente Revolycionario Democratico.

Lon Lay 3, 1961, Kr

to enployed

Dy your Agenoy in the trani arees

coolsco our diant Office that

your ayency has an operational interest in Renon Iglestos Vosallo.

no further inquiries ore being conduceed by this

Bureau in this mother.

BY, COURIER SVC.

03

3 MAY 1

COMM - FBI

You may

desire

advise

your interest

in Iglestos.

I. = Miami (105-3778)

JIDENDANT

(6)

by.

Dos oN

NOW DIELASS

CLASSIFIED BY

3-19-98

the Department of State of

Tolson

Parsons

Mohr

Belmont

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Tavel

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingrome

Gank

Despatche

tegarding suoject

a copy of which was received y icIa, indicated that u

'!!!

NOTE, CONTENUED PAGE ITTO

Nast

SE ORDE

TELETYPE UNIT

8:89.

HW 50953

DooId: 32337408

Page 2

---

