124-10325-10318) |

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

3/15/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information
FBI
124-10325-10318
HQ
62-80750-4166

ORIGINATOR :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :

‘| CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

FBI
BRENNAN
SULLIVAN

09/11/1963
12

CIA LIAISON FILE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B; 4

Redact

12/29/1998

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

INC MEMO, SUMMARY

v9.1
HW 52333 Docld:32313069 Page 1


ce Py gone
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY SECREY

& Ki q
SE PC
S ae a DIRECTOR'S MEETING WITH J. J¢¢wC CONE Wes.

on

Although ur “Vifecones has tad cated he will not be raising
[22v problems or issues, the Director may find the following of
assistance:

STATUS OF RELATIONS WITH CIA

To say that the two agencies work in complete harmony is
not true. Conflicts of past years have had their influences. Fortu-
nately we have been successful in establishing very effective work-
ing relations with several key figures in the agency who have been

_Very cooperative and who are sincerely interested in getting the

job done, Without this existing framework our relations with CIA
could degenerate into a chaotic state.

With regard to differences with CIA, there were two
situations during the past year which had a significant bearing
on the relations bétween the two agencies. Approximately a year
ago we learned that CIA had established contact with a Cuban exile
who had come into the U.S. and who had confessed to the agency
that he had been trained as a Cuban Intelligence Agent. CIA had

this information for nearly a month before notifying the Bureau,
We lodged very vigorous protest a The (57)
other event which led to a heated conflict arose from information

which we disseminated to the President's Foréign Intelligence
Advisory Board concerning Bureau's technical coverage of diplomatic
establishments in this country. On May 15, 1963, McCone informed
Mr. Belmont that a letter which the Bureau had sent to the afore-
mentioned Board should be retracted because the communication
included statements which incorrectly were attributed to him, the
CIA Director. Mr. Belmont adamantly refused to retract the letter
and after McCone asked for an apology, Mr. Belmont again made it

cat clear that no apology was coming from him. The Bureau never

aoe retracted the letter because statements disseminated by us were
predicated on information which had been given to us by two top
CIA officials. The conflict was eventually resolved by McCone*
writing a letter to the Board and admitting that two of his
subordinates had erroneously briefed the Bureau on a particular
matter.

STATURE OF MC CONE IN THE PRESENT ADMINISTRATION
McCone obviously enjoys acquiring and using power. He

considers himself not only the head of a particular government
agency but also "the Direcgor of Central Intelligence’ and in

Meo ssa eee
DECIAGOIFY Oo HD) bAdb72 a :

j ENCLOSURE cu REE

| saw §2333 Doclda:32313069 Page 2



fiasco, we have not seen any evidence of high-grade intelligence {
being developed by CIA in Cuba'since McCone became Director of |
the agency. To show impressive results, McCone must fall back on
intelligence information developed through high-altitude photography

and the use of other sophisticated technical equipment being used |
to photograph targets and to intercept communications. Much of

this is, of course, being done in collaboration with other U. S.

agencies such as the Air Force.

FBI COOPERATION WITH CIA

During the past year there have been numerous instances
of excellent cooperation rendered by the Bureau to CIA. Set forth
are some outstanding examples:

INFORMATION FROM SENSITIVE SOURCE SOLO

We have furnished CIA information from our
sensitive Communist Party source who has traveled
to Russia and has been in contact with Soviet
leaders. This information has been most valuable
to CIA in following developments particularly the
differences between Red China and Russia.

TOPHAT

Military Intelligence Service (GRU) has produced
highly valuable information of.use to CIA.

Gury)

This is a highly sensitive penetration of
pool peed Intelligence Service.) His information cs
has Significantlyyassisted CIA in. obtaining a
current picture of the Czech intelligence \organiza- ( $ 2
tion.

| Our sensitive penetration of the Soviet

BUREAU FURNISHES CIA A VALUABLE SOURCE

our sensitive(Czech source ,CGimme } is ae H
scheduled to return to Zechoslovakia Arrange- Cc $7

ments have been made to make him available to
CIA.

FEDORA
Through this sensitive KGB penetration, we have
furnished CIA leads pertaining to Soviet intelligence
operations abroad. In addition, we have given the
agency data pertaining to the organization and functions
of KGB. Eel
Pe lary

———

HW 52333 DocId:32313069 Page 3


© O

SOVIET MAIL DROPS OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES

Through our investigations in this country,
we have identified Soviet mail. drops in other
areas and we have given this valuable information
to CIA,

CIA APPROACHES OF THE SOVIET AND SATELLITE
NATIONALS IN THE UNITED STATES

Under agreed-to restrictions we have per-
mitted CIA to contact Soviet and Satellite
visitors in this country for the purpose of
assessing their potential as sources when
they return to their native countries,

CUBAN;SOURCES

We have afforded CIA the opportunity to
brief Bureau sources before such sources made
trips to Cuba.

SENSITIVE CUBAN ESPIONAGE OPERATIONS

Both FBI and CIA have had access to
intercepted radio communications being
utilized by Cuban Intelligence. The Bureau
has been far ahead of CIA in identifying
agents mentioned in the communications and
has furnished pertinent. information to CIA,

TECHNICAL DATA TO CIA

The Bureau has been very successful in
identifying Soviet and Cuban secret writing
techniques. We have made this knowledge
available to CIA.

CIA COOPERATION WITH BUREAU

TOPHAT
CIA _did an excellent job (ez servicing drops gaa
in Moscow\in this very sensitive case. This
was done~dt considerable risk and was productive
for us.

HW 52333 DocId:32313069 Page 4



0 ©

DOUBLE AGENTS FOR BUREAU

There have been a number of instances
where CIA operated Soviet double agents
outside of the U.S. and then made these
individuals available to the Bureau for
use in the U.S. In this connection it is
also noted that in our development of the
sensiti sources, Fedora {KGB penetration)
and(Gimmel (penetration of een Intelligence 0533
IA furnished va

Service Wable assistance.

VLADIMIR ROMASHKIN CASE

Several weeks ago, CIA advised us that
one of its employees had been contacted by
the Soviets. With CIA's cooperation, we
conducted investigation which led to the
ouster of a Soviet official and very favor-
able publicity for the Bureau.

COVERAGE (IN _MEXIco| C oe)

Through surveillances and surreptitious
entry , CIA produced — informationiin _
vestigation of, aca
whom we since ve doubled.

AVAILABILITY OF DEFECTORS

CIA has been most cooperative in making
defectors available to the Bureau for interviews.

COOPERATION WITH LABORATORY

From time to time CIA has made certain
documents and equipment available to the
Bureau's Laboratory. For example, a few
weeks ago CIA made available to our Laboratory,
at no cost, a portable unit designed for making
radiographs (X-rays) of papers recording such
characteristics as watermarks, printing, etc.

ASSISTANCE IN DEVELOPING A KEY CRIMINAL INFORMANT

Through assistance afforded by CIA, we
gained access to an individual who subsequently
became a valuable informant in the labor rackets

field (NY 3936-C). :
: : SE CREL

HW 52333 DocId:32313069 Page 5



O

(rorrvirres C59

Information provided by a sensitive CIA

source has been ver:
activities of( J

©

useful in following the
agents in the U. S. Cs

| POSSIBLE TOPICS WHICH MC CONE MAY REFER TO

JACK EDWARD DUNLAP

who. supplied informat
committed suicide in
recently received inf
source Tophat in Mosc
worked for the Soviet:

| This is the Nati

onal Security. Agency employee
ion to the Soviets and who
July of this year. We
ormation from our sensitive
ow confirming that Dunlap

s. Tophat's information

was furnished to McCone last week. McCone is

information which led
Penkovsky, a sensitiv:

| that Dunlap may have

PERSONNEL SECURITY

The Dunlap Case
concerning the effect
U.S. agencies. McCon

particularly concerned about the possibility

furnished the Soviets
to the compromise of Oleg
e CIA source in Russia.

has been raising questions

iveness of security within

e anticipates that Congress
te some inquiry and he

already has been informed that the President's
Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board is looking

ee = may initia

into the matter.:Last
Mr. Belmont for his v:
McCone, at that time,
our careful screening
strong administrative
: tions. It was emphas

week Mr. McCone asked

iews on personnel security.
was briefed concerning

of applicants and our
controls including inspec-
ized that the Bureau always

resolved security problems in favor of the FBI

rather than the indiv:
was told that the key
ke be tight screening

idual involved, Mr. McCone
to the situation appeared
and control procedures and

the willingness to take prompt action.

COVERAGE OF NON-SOVIET BLOC DIPLOMATIC ESTABLISHMENTS

IN THE U.S.

up this matter before

| In the Spring of
Intelligence Advisory.

this year, McCone brought
the President's Foreign
Board and he subsequently

-6-

HW 52333 DocId:32313069 Page 6


~

C O

had a discussion with Mr. Belmont. Essentially, ~
McCone is most interested in technical coverage

of individuals and installations of non-Soviet!Bloc
countries. He has left the impression that in

his opinion such coverage could be expanded in

the U.S. and thereby produce more intelligence

and more sources. Our coverage in this field

at the present time is quite extensive. With
regard to CIA, we have the understanding that ,
if the agency desires particular technical
coverage, we will give each request the necessary
consideration.

: ( ACTIVITIES ae)

In the early part of this year, w ted
extensive investigation of the alleged CS
agents in this country on the basis of data fur-
nished to us by.a sensitive _ Thi
source has informed CIA that as (sD

embarked on an extensive espionage program in
the U.S. primarily designed cohkhect scientific
data which will enabiep te hasten its ( $3
development of a nuclear capability. We have
disseminated the results of our investigation

to CIA and we are continuing the handling of
numerous leads. The information developed by

Jus so far_has failed to disclose any evidence |

that. the are stealing any classified GS
secrets In the U.S. The|_ appear to be C$_3
obt; oluminous information available to
hrough normal contacts between $3
officials and their counterparts in the cs
. Ss.

TOPHAT

A CIA agent recently obtained the message
which our sen: ive source Tophat secreted in a
drop(in Moscow.\ The message included {information C53
concerning Soviet activities in France, Germany
and Austria. We have given this data to CIA. In
addition, McCone was told that Tophat identified
Dunlap as a Soviet agent. We have told CIA that
Tophat may have loaded the drop as early as
June, 1963, The delay in obtaining the communica-
tion prevented us from getting into the Dunlap
Case well before the subject committed suicide.

Sites Ga

HW 52333 DocId:32313069 Page 7



© a ©
SECRER

CIA did not service the drop because our informant
did not exhibit an agreed-to signal. He apparently
did not use the signal in order to fully protect
himself. On the other hand, CIA was unable to
service the drop until August because State Depart-
ment adamantly refused to give CIA clearance to
conduct any activity in Moscow. .This position was
taken by State because it felt that any operational
activity might jeopardize the test ban talks. ("5")

ANATOLI GOLITZYN AKA ANATOLI KLIMOV

This is the Soviet KGB defector who came to
the U. S. under CIA control, feuded with the agency,
left for England under British Intelligence ¢ontrol
and very recently returned to the U.S. Since his
return, he has met with the Attorney General and
with McCone. He has been extremely critical of
the U.S. position toward Russia. Although a prima
donna, Golitzyn has been the source of extremely
valuable information for all U.S. agencies including
the Bureau. Since his return, he has indicated to
the Attorney General and CIA that he will contact
appropriate agencies when he sees fit. In the past,
Golitzyn has asked to meet with the Director. The
Director has made it very clear that he will not
see Golitzyn.

MICHAL GOLENIEWSKI

The subject is a former high-ranking official
of the Polish Security Service who defected in
January, 1961, and in recent weeks has been an
embarrassing problem for CIA because of his many
complaints. He has communicated with the President,
the Attorney General and has been in contact with
@ Congressman. He is slated to testify before the
Senate Internal Security Sub-Committee in the near
future. He has accused CIA of dishonesty and over~all
failure to comply with his needs. We have had access
to Goleniewski who has been a valuable source of
information. However, we have been most careful not
to become involved in the feud between him and CIA.
We have cooperated to the extent of furnishing CIA
any information received from Goleniewski which
might be of assistance to the agency.

HW 52333 DocId:32313069 Page 8



ey @'

PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD

For your information, McCone has found this
Board to be a constant irritant. This Board was
established several years ago by the Eisenhower
administration then continued by President Kennedy.
It is designed to periodically review foreign
intelligence and counterintelligence activities.
The present chairman of the committee is Clark
Clifford and the staff director is J. Patrick Coyne.
Apparently, McCone does not like a group such as
this Board looking into his operations. There is
some indication that his irritation arises from
personal differences, with Coyne.

WENNERSTROM CASE

Colonel Stig Wennerstrom, the Swedish Military
Attache who, a few weeks ago, admitted to his govern-
ment that he had been working for the Soviets.
Wennerstrom was in the U. S. from 1952 until 1957
and was collaborating with the Russians while he
was here. Recently, McCone indicated that a "damage
report" should be prepared on this case and he
expressed the opinion that this should be the
responsibility of the Bureau. With regard to damage,
he was referring to an evaluation of all information
which Wennerstrom may have gained from the U. 58.

We have taken the position that we will not prepare
such a damage report and if one is needed the work
should be done by each interested agency.

UNKNOWN SUBJECT; KGB AGENT KNOWN AS "SASHA"

This is a Bureau investigation predicated on
information furnished to us by Anatoli Golitzyn, the
KGB defector who advised that CIA had been penetrated
by KGB. We have been endeavoring to identify_the
unknown Soviet agent. We do have a suspect,/John s.C$)
Barescu} who was born in Russia and who has been working
for CIA’ for several years. McCone may not mention this
matter but he is very much concerned about the situation.
We have been keeping CIA advised of all pertinent
developments.

HW 52333 DocId:32313069 Page 9

