# 124-90137-10468

## Page 1

124-90137-10468

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90137-10468

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-89457-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO :

NY

TITLE:

DATE: 06/30/1961

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

JORGE BELIARD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: AT

V9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32337702 Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

1 James

pich

6-30-61

SC

NOTECTE

17 50 3 1

5668 520/6CL

126198 - Пк

7-20-98

AIRTEL

GLASC FIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR

GEC. SOIFY Cid: 25X_

(JFK)

T'O:

R/N/E3

SAC, New York

(134-5609) €)

Cassaned l

R0f 9803200/80l

From:

Director,

FBI

Declassif

IN 3186-PSIC)

(205-898578 1 si

REG- 85

ClA, by fraison, advised Bureau of desire to

contact captioned eSI in connection. with its cuban operations (C

CIA of opinion/PSIlis in positionito assist in thel col

Contact of LeSby CIA being held in C)

abeyance pending Bureau's approval.

Bureau's position in this matter flexible

le can refuse CIA authority to contact PSIlor we car let&

CIA operate PSIon its oun.

We cap also serve as inter-(C)

mediary between fine PS end CIA.

And discreetly ascertain

iI he is in position and willingl

Do not adviselsIlof CIA's connection at (

0a1eu.

this time.

information; ClA believes estable toc,

because of his employment with

cuband airlines in vew York City, and fact he is in contoct

S*:

with persons regularly traveling

to Cubáo

Furnish Bureau

results of your contact with [PSIclIn event (PSIlis in position)

witting to a0 902

you should furnish your obseryations

concerning

propose, use in this matter.

DECLASS

PLAYOR.

RELEASE OF GIAMINFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT

PSIfis Station Manager of Cubana Airlines at BRACKETS' INI'S

Lalewild

Tolson

Airport

In New York City.

Belmont.

development by New Vork Office since November,

He has Beenfund el

sy AND

Mohr -

Callahan

and has furrished data concerning operations of Cubana

60-14-98

Conrad

Airlines and personnel employed by Cuband.

In addition

DeLouch .

JFK

Evans -

CONTINUANCE OF NOTE ON PAGE TIO

Malone

Rosen

5 OSUL 11

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

SECT

HW 50953

DooId: 32337702 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Re:

TO SAC,

12)

NY 3186 221

Vork

CONTINUANCE DE NOTE:

CAFONTAS

he has made available copies offincoming and outgoing

of unusualsvalue; but because

or his position, has a goodle

potentiala sCIA advised Liaison Agent Papich it would not

contacteri

ntil it has received authority to do so from

Burecio

Pre allowing CIA to make contact with leST, it ()

is belleved it would be best for our interests to determine

that Agency,

take in this matter.

ie will then consider unat stand

POTFNENTIAL

- 2

HW

50953

DocId: 32337702

Page

3

---

