1241014810032]

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

COMMENTS :

TITLE:

DATE:
’PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

3/30/201

Agency Information

FBI i
124-10148-10032

WMFO
100-1689-53

Document Information

FBI

HQ

02/27/1964
3

SEE FBI 100-32965-114

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1A

Redact 4

06/07/1999

APPROVAL OF CIA

| va
|
|

HW 50953 DocId:32162731 Page 1


SECRET

Director, FBI (100-32965) CIA HAS NO ossecn ses
DECLASSIRCATION ANDYOR,

Legat, Mexico City (105~3880) (P) Here OF OIA INFORMATION
N THIS DOCUMENT As Acnede fil
in fys (reggae )

GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT
JEANNE DE MOHRENSCHILDT

18 = R .
/- 1 , thet
BUDED 3/1/64 Ge "8
Declassily on: OADR OF K

ENCLOSURES
There are enclosed herewith 29 copies of a

letterhead memorandum, dated and captioned as above.

REFERENCES
Bucab to Mexico City dated 2/20/64, and Legat,

Mexico cable to Bureau dated 2/24/64.

ADMINISTRATIVE
The files of the Mexico City office contain no.
unreported information regarding the subjects or LILIA

PARDO VIUDA DE \LARIN. -

On 2/24/64, fie.
o Rey

CIA Station,. México,
of that office contained no ident

concerning LILIA PARDO VIUDA DE ¢
concerning the subjects in addition te that previously
furnished to the Mexico City office. It is noted that all
pertinent formation furnished by CIA, Mexico, concerning
HENYA SHUIK, aka JEANE LIGON. DE MOHRENSCHILDT, who
appears to (be idéiitical with JEANNE DE MOARENSCHILDT, has
previously been furnished to the Bureau.

Since the Mexico City office is not in possession
of current information concerning the whereabouts of LILIA

Deputy Director. ‘S)
fated that the records
table information

REN and so information.

EPT

TED EXCE
i

TON CONTATHED «.
SSIF
aRWISE,

UNCLA

6 ~ Bureau (Encs. 29)
Q = Liaison Section)

(2 ~ Dallas)

TES
RE SHON OTE

” ALD rwvoryay
TT

5
BS Q. ~ New York, Info.)
ite 1 - Mexico City
ORG: jh
@ ec
ot

HW 50953 DocId:32162731 Page 2
