AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10164-10151
RECORD SERIES: HQ :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-8169

ORIGINATOR:
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:
SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:
ORIGINAL
CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:
STATUS

COMMENTS:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
CIA
DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS

DIRECTOR, FBI

02/22/1980

4
JFK, ASSA, ASSISTANCE, OPINION, SUSPECTS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

NEW
Secret CLASSIFICATION:
06/30/1997 UPDATE DATE: — 02/12/2001
Redact :
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
INC FBI MEMO

RW 50953 DocId:32168174 Paye 1


. SECRET

S ‘a

tow —
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENGA

WASHINGTON, D.C, 20505.

. Ba cal
RELEASE 1993 Ww

ew aera ~ 92 FEB 1980

U.S. Secret Service a)
Attention: Intelligence Division
Cossined cy — y
sty cos OAR pirector :
tin one Federal Bureau of Investigation ih

Attention: Intelligence Division

:. Deputy Director for Opera ona GOVSRMMEND

SUBJECK, : Alleged Information on Assassination of
President Kennedy
Ns . he following information was provided by’
in Rio de Janeiro and is being forwarded for your
inform and such action as you deem appropriate.

a. An unidentified caller phoned the Consul General
in Rio de Janeiro 29 January 1980, to offer "sg@2et informa-
tion" on the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. An
Agency officer interviewed the individual on 30 January in

he
Consulate. #16 pe4dl (o2. - | Og OCO ~ 169

b. At first, the walk-in refused to identify him-
self or give the names of persons in his story, but agreed to
do so after the interviewer impressed on him the importance
when evaluating information of the identity of the source and
“of the other persons involved, The walk-in reluctantly pro-
duced an ID card (106151 issued by the technical police on
8/29/66} identifying himself as Lasz} KOVACS. born. 30 eeO0.Citox,

ber 1926 in Sao Paulo of Munparian pareins/Gerech d pit i

ORB . According te eee ape fivekbe ren eae

Nor with his parents and lived in Hungary and Yugoslavia,

* the Latter, until 1961 when he returned to Brazil.

He stands about five feet seven inches, stocky buil@>"Nw7él

“ eyes, no glasses, light brown hair receding at the temples and
graying. His hands appear those of a mason, whic

to be, The interview was conducted in Portuguese ® which,
‘ee apr 10 1980
ALL PORTIONS OF THIS DOGMENT . REV) OW LORERSO serge”
ARE CLASSI SE GR y SVWOON 1LOFE .
. ° GOW eyes fer DERIVED FROM D9GSL
Cp Bane S. 3/S1PS hoy :

ge BeBe cat

Nw fren conan alne[re Pe

CLR Th Sert

HW 50953 DocId:32168174 Paye 2


nn” ie ih Ce as “ae ae

[> ‘e
SUBJECT : Alleged Information on Assassination of
President Kennedy

cause of Vlasenco's nationality, and the timing of the assassi-
nation six months after the blockade of Cuba, Kovacs concludes
that the assassination was ordered by "Brezhnev and Fidel
Castro."

e. Vlasenco told Kovacs in November, 1963 that he
rented the apartment, dealt in precious stones, and had lived
there for four years, Vlasenco was away from the apartment dur-
ing the day, dressed well, had no family and no car. Kovacs
guesses he saw him three times during the two week period.

f£, Kovacs asked that the above story be passed to
Senator Edward Kennedy, and at first refused to identify himself
and the characters in his story to anyone but the Senator or
his emissary because he was afraid for his life. It was for
that reason also that he claims he did not come forward until
now. Kovacs was assured that his story would not appear in
any newspaper or magazine (which he feared would happen), but
would be sent to Washington by a coded message. Towards the
end of the interview Kovacs alluded to his need for money
(CR $500,000 about US $11,500) to fund his inventions; one a
dirigible which could carry "any amount of cargo," and one a
pump which could pump liquids hundreds of miles. When asked
if he had made an effort to interest local entrepreneurs, Kovacs
replied that he had expended considerable effort, "but they
laugh at me." Kovacs appears to have a confused thinking
process and lively imagination and his story is contradictory.
He probably came forward in the hope that his information
would be worth money. We do not know whether he himself be-
lieves the story he related,
O

2. n Rio de Janeiro has been advised
to have no further contact with Kovacs, Should addees wish to
pursie the matter, Kovacs’ present address is Rua A. 46, Vila
Luiza, Pavuna, Rio de Janeiro.

3. This Agency has no identifiable traces on Kovacs or
Viasenco.

CIR 316/00637-80

: _—
SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32168174 Paye 3

