# 124-90146-10107

## Page 1

124-90146-10107

JFK Assassination System

identification Form

Date:

5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90146-10107

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-93072-111 THRU 127

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/06/1964

50

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Not Assassination Related

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 20 MEMO, 2 LHM, 3 ENVELOPE, SS, NOTE, 2 LET

v9.1

10953

4

DooId: 32339275

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

TRAL INTELZIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

24 JUN 1965

Blind

ISSIDED

ALE FBP INFOR

TO:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM:

Deputy Director for Plans Hair

SUBJÈCT: Transmittal of Letters -- Hodee W. Edwards and A

B.

Spellman

Richard Gibson

g.A.-

1. Forwarded as Attachment 1, herewith, is a letter sent to

SUGAR on 17 May by Hodee W. EDWARDS, an American woman

now, living in Ghana.

EDWARDS was a member of the CPUSA

1/00-1/4/612

a number of years ago but broke with the party, and is now, according

"to SUGAR, sympathetic to the Chinese line. The "Lionel" first

referred to in the fourth paragraph of this letter is Lione

NEL MORRISON

South African member of the Afro-Asian Journalist Association (A AJAl

secretariat.

(MORRISON recently had a case of jaundice but is said

c)

to have recovered.). "King Street" refers to the British Communist •

Party. "The Winneba Conference' is of course the Fourth Afro-Asian

singe

DSD, COPY FILET

Peoples Solidarity Conference, 9-17 May 1965. In the final paragraph

on page two, Mrs. EDWARDS erroneous

assumes that SUGAR was

planning to come to Ghana with Jacques

GRIPPA and Nils ANDERSON;

(FK)

according to SUGAR;

this is based on her misreading of his letter. to

Mrs. EDWARDS is referring to herself when she speaks of the

"white American female Jew."

As at

it were forwarding a letter to SUGAR-tromA

dated 19 May and sent from the United States :

SPELLMAN,

SuGAr

• Richard GREG.

Whis Kieng

93072-177

To Camera JUN 30 1965.

Congrattee.

c/es. SECRET

G.00F

Excluded frem outomatie

Had butch

6 / 1965

NH 50953 DocId: 32339275

Page 2

UNRECORDED COPY FILED

---

## Page 3

SEUKE!

age about 29, worked for Jacques VERGES in Paris in the spring of

1964, without pay. Then he went to Cairo for the OAU meeting, and

returned to the U.S. to work with the Progressive Labor Movement.

He is also a contributor of cultural articles to The Nation. His wife

is French.

CSCI-316/02634-65

Attachments: 2

SECRET

-2

HW 50953

DocId: 32339275

Page 3

---

## Page 4

TO:

Chief, KUDESK

FROM:

Chief

of station, Lond

Attachment No. 1 to

"OELA-43,E

8 June

1965

" Po Do. Box 31

Kumasi,

Ghana

27 may, 1965

Dear.

As always,

it was good to hear from you with your incisive observa-

tions.

I'm loaded with news and hope I can terember a11. I want to

you after I answer yours of the 14th.

As to the Fishing and Marketing Coops, Round One is ours; but the

fight has only begun.

Big plans are under way, what between chartered

vessels and locally made fishing vessels, private supplies of fish, etc.

But so far, the Cold Stores are still closed and for fish, you must go

to the local market, where the supply is plentiful, even it dovole in

price to what we were selling it for. However, if they carry out the plans

again that "these people" vill

then watch out for the brass knucks in the gloves auring thefnext one...

Tre secretary is talking of my going with him to Nigeria to take part in

anect dealings with the Polish gov't reps. there who are transferrins

sore fishing yessels to us... I'd love to go, but seeing is believing.

As to ilar

ausei, she's about as bad as her husband, and the Abraham

Commission did set her backra peg.

Iney asked her a question and she

Willie Abraham told the tea

she actually apol

Chalk one up for our side.

Bed in london, it which time she told reporters

she would return to Ghana

nenever she pleased and take the bed with her.

She returned to

hana at will apparently, but I haven't heard whether she brought the bed.

No doubt she'a have been untilling to pay the customs

duties since the

Ghana gov't would get that.

I haraly EVER see Julia

though I

occasionally see his wife.

to put it mildly, but I am

biding

my time.

May, 1965 and I thought it was fairly g00à,

have the inside traci, here and I doubt Julian gets a completely free

I shall lock one up sid mail it only any to see dia on one din

shall also drop a line to Roger

next Accra visits.. Any frieran

form an alliance for future reference ana present, enjoyment.

As to Lionel, I inquired first off fron tne Indonesian delegates to

the MAPSO Conference at Vinineba, which I attended for the three days of

plenary sessions,

and

they said he was

"all right" now ard had been to the

airport to see them off.

I vote and tolà him to arop you a line ard let

you know he was anong the living

I shall try to get hold of the lay 8 issue of the Satevepost since

would very much like

to know the info it contains.

And as to iling Street,

the sooner we rouse

"the masses"

or whatever is the British "reasonable

facsinila" to route those boys, the beiter for the worlà.

Some Afro-merican

in Acora said - and it was repeated to me - tirat when Johnson spits,

Wilson

swims - and so what' can ve say of the King Sü, boys? Let me know how the

rally went vs. U.S. Dominican shenanigans.

• I also heard a lot more about my "CIA" business from what is usually

referred to as "an unimpeachable source" and it may not have a tring to do.

vitin the real CIA at all. there are plenty of people here who feel.

that

anyone with brains is à threat to "their positions" - ana when that "any-

one" is a white hrerican female Jew, ivell. WHAT a target ana

sist a charce to annihilate the Opposition?

But,

this

wino

could. re

same

"source" told

me to

"Keep my balance." "Dizzy, as

I an?'I felt like

asking; but Icciant. d

A11 of this is just back-handea tribute which shoula swell my hat - ze,

if

I vant to be objective about it, which I d0...

07 50953 DocId: 32339275 Page 4

---

## Page 5

This space also for correspondence

At the Winneba conference,

I had: one large ball.

I. met and talked to

real people fron South and North Vietnam,

one of then bearing me a per-

sonal note of introduction from my friend in Hanoi, who couldn't cone..

I spoise to lamo. from.

Inconesia and liked hin very much; he lenew juar

30 Lionel

of course.

And THEN, Keeds,

I spoke to the representatives

from North Korea - and that is my News.

First they said my letters to

then (alz criticising them for points I disagreed with, mini you - ti

noive of soine people's chilaren!:) had been "very helpful" in their ork.

Tney said that I represented a new kind of relationsins between Koreans

anâ inericans:

"Is not for you, ve would think al

americans are bad,

at which I assured them I was NO? alone; just alone in expressing it

directly,

And THEN they gaid I should visit their country, which

I said

I intended to do in 1967.

"Too far," they said.

"You should come

nomo" Yep.. ALL expenses paid.

How about that?

I honestly don't de-

OR SENT BY ORDINARY MAIL

• ENCLOSURE; IF IT DOES IT WILL BE SURCHARGED

AN AIR. LETTER SHOULD NOT CONTAIN ANY

Sender's name and address

Al. Eliardi

PO. Bor 3411

Kimasi, Thana

STERONI

LEY AIR MAM

AEROGRAMME

I A 25

serve such en honor, but I hope. I can do some good cut of it...a

I hope

to go right after the 0.4. U. meeting in Septenber.

I ronder if.

the plane

(assuming I go by plane? stops in London - if you see what

I'm getting

at. you'a belter hurry that photo around so l'a inow you if the dop-

over was a short one, iot?. Did you ever hear of such lucki

I'm rditing

Lionel, my friend in Hanoi and. Ate Louise Strong to see

I can at

least see them at an airport enroute...nd another tires

i. got ashice

letter from Robert F. Villiams, whom I an

answering soor.

Wno knav's?.

Meybe such a plane even stops at la Habana?

Hovr about it, Richard?

Meantine,

keep me posted on your plans...it roud be

marvelous if

you could get to Ghana (along with Grippa and

Andersson?) for

the O.A.U.

Sumnit.. •I should write at greater length,

but I've been away

fan two

weeks and my correspondence stoci piled. - vi!

So more next time and

write. soon.

Love to Saran.

Love, HEdEE

NH 50953

DocId: 32339275

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Denr

appose

yes,

it was

to, bod that ve didnt 100k you un in Paris,

out Kiem

uns the fient person I saw?

as Revolution owed me

moner,

and among other hairy stories, he said that you and

Your wife had lon since lett for london.

is the only other.

person I

saw who Inew you ies Gaite T?, Owner of the incien

book

shon) who wre not

sure whether you had left, it never

occured. to me that

this, tor, miphü be a lie.

I will net to see von in Alter this summer re the Pes-

tivnl Committee has offered to aar my my it I conduct for

them a syposium on jarnt the Youth

festival.

I have other

plens.

219T

amnosir I my conduct; tant will surnrise them.

New York

Uns hysterical ne rou left it.

The trial or

Melter Bore and the other victins of i very slick f.B.J.- N

nolion frome opened "Jast week.

Yor Inew Walter as I rec-1,

and

know that he was not noont to blow the statreoof

Tierty's head off thoven the old bitch would certain.

petter if someone did..

cher don't have a cose renily" art

enly ãn i not of rime.

Practienllr threntine leedershin oi;

P.I.

is 7D

come charge or other rancind

Tron entering thei

country withort a valla mesonor to criminal enret.

There

is nothine recombline e londer or onsenication in Ranten since...

the C.I.A. blor Malcon away.

Otheri se

thians pre,

lare ther out.

comine ni roar.

ammmitine a soni- for

Panthron cha cordactine d drily momin

prainne anenor a theatre

schan? in

Forer called the Black anis.

TeTt

ma motionrlirt.

torether

it will he comethine rise.

Chris Fock,

The manlie caring director of WBAI Sort t

he morte

Her the the menes mich tou monoged hut thre RAt

is so broire

that ther could not mire him s? for gone arorg

that he wanted from

On-man.

Te are that be mill toole granna

ênn some money from nutsion

earere but that von choulaint earnt

on it.

Teoê conse you cre to senô the tones anyway

I see maine the other der ma da'de ring th to me alt"

to unlia annot menilie mariare. And that's niout that.

see ron this curmer.

Bont.,

Jared

NN 50953

DocId:32339275 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

LENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

this die is eased ce: 1/2196

SP-3 BTJ/AHR 10/30/96

(370144)

TO:

24 JUN 1965

Xual

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM:

Deputy Directory for Plans JAr

SUBJECT: Telephone Conversation Malcolm X - Carlos Moore and

Sandy Bethune. (Afro-American Unity Group in Paris)

Richzand

Gibson

1. Forwarded herewith as Attachment is a Xerox copy of a

photostat of a transcript of a telephone conversation between Carlos)

Moore (and his friend Sandy Bethune) and the late Malcolm X, which

took place 8 or 9 February 1965.

SUGAR obtained this transcript

on 4 June from the editor of the West Indian Gazette, ({nu) Manchanda.

SUGAR believes that Manchanda got the photostat from the Ghana High

Commission office in London.

He further believes that the Afro-

American unity group in Paris (among whom there is only one member

citizenship: the American Negro photographer,

, John Taylor)

probably supplied the transcript to the Ghana Officials as a means of

building their credentials as a bona fide revolutionary organization,

perhaps one entitled to receive financial support

3072-

SUGAR gave the current (June 1965) addreSbLoffJalfbican/Cuban

Carlos Moore as: c/o Pedro Filipe,

168 Rue Grenelle, Paris 7e, France.

said that Filipe is a Cuban national.

ALL FBI IN CRITATION CONTAINED

NCREINIS U

7013

JUL

DATE AS

B: Sp8 MAC/ GAT

CSCI-316702636-65

Attachment: IRNCLOSTRE

440

ORIGI

NAL FILED

1S05

65 JUL14 1965

who way corelitat

Calia Coumilia

SECRET

6/24/15

GROUP 1

Excluded tram automalle

dowagreding anu

duclassificatio?

- NAT, INT. SIC.

NH 50953

DocId:32339275

Page 7

---

## Page 8

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

SA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES

ENMENT

Memorandum

TO

Mr. D. J. Brennan,

FROM

Mr. So do

Papich

Tolson

Belmont.

Monl

De Loach

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DAXEL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Gale

hosen

Sullivan

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT avel

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE,

aloule)

Tele. Room

SECRET

holmes

SUBJECT: RICHARD GIBSON

IS - CUBA

Subject's past involvement with the Fair Play for

Cuba

Committee is well known to the Bureau®

A few

weeks ago,

CIA advised

us that the Agency was utilizing Gibson as a source in

Europe,

On

6/18/65,

ICIA, informed

the Liaison Agent that in

the future information emanating from Gibson and disseminate

CIA

will be attributed to a source under the cryptonym SUGAR,

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to

the attention of

the Nationalities Intelligence Section®

1 - Mr. Cotter

1 - Liaison

1

- Mr. Papich

SJP: chs

(4)

Ohs

12/23|ge

SARMACGAL

Declassify ons

JFK

SECRET

14

Class attradd by

1a79

Examp: from GOS,

Data s! Declassilic

зрівно

K

REC-70-

105-1230785126

14 JUN 29 1965

EX 109

HH 50953

DocId: 32339275

Page 8

---

## Page 9

OPIONAL FORM NO.

5018106

1902

EDITION

GSA GEN.

rho. no. 21

UNITED STATES GC

Memorandum

NMENT

SEGRET

TO

Mr. D. J. Brennan,

DATE:

5/10/65

FROM

Mr. S. J. Papic

REA

bookilet Mohr

Belmont

ve Loach

ST-10đl

rasher

Callahan

Conrad.

Felt

Gale _

nosen

Sullivan

1 avel .

Trotter.

Ieie. Moom.

Holmes

Gandy

, SUBJECT

RICHARD THOMAS

GIBSON

IS — CUBA AND CHINA

GECRET

"Sat R

SIDE FI

CLASSIC

ACTION

Reference is made to memorandum dated

4/22/65, from Mr.

Baumgardner to Mr. Sullivan.

Liaison was requested to obtain addi-

tional details concerning the nature and extent of CIA's current

relationship with the subject. The following was

furnished to the

Liaison Agent on 5/7/65, by

CIA will continue to operate subject as a source.

Рудк

presently located in Europe and he may be traveling

Southeast Asia.

A CIA representative from Headquarters will be meet-

ing with Gibson in England in the very near future for the purpose of

preparing a working schedule for Gibson. This will include leads

which will be levied on the subject.

pointed out that

in the event the Bureau desired that CIA question subject concerning

| any matters, our leads to CIA should be transmitted as soon as possibi

made available the enclosed rough draft of infor

mation volunteered to. CIA by

the subject concerning various individuals,

some of whom may be of interest to the Bureau.

ALL" INFORMATION CONTANED

81(5)

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED ENCEPT

The above IntormatiOn

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWSErs being directed to the attention

of the Nationalities Intelligence Section. g

Enclosure

"ENCLOSURE ON BULKY RAMP"

1 - Mr

Waitina 11

1

- Liaison

Krupinsky

assified by I14511

- Mr.

Ry ant

1

Mr. Papich

SJP:chs

96255309

; (5)

chs.

REMAINS CASSIT

In chant

8 encl.

THEER LETTIER Of

4/9/63

G LA; NY; P6;

105=23023-125

16 JUN 10:1965

Congran los

Estos Decis

3\16V

retained for distrution

8599653474

SECREd

NH 50953

DocId: 32339275 Page 9

---

## Page 10

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

SSA GEN

REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

FROM

: Mr. W. R. Wannall.

SECRET

1 - Mr. Belmont

1 - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Mr. DiE. Moore

DATE:

May Mr.

1965

Wannall

- Mr. Mullins

1 - Mr. Krupinsky

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

—e :

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Trotter -

Tele. Room

noimes

Gandy

SUBJECT: RICHARD THOMAS

GIBSON

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

This is to recommend that the

subject's name be retained

in the Security Index.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

MEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEO EXCS

WHERE SHOWM OTHERWISE.

BACKGROUND:

y* Subject, a United States citizen, is included in the

Security. Index based on past pro-Castro-Cuban sympathies

activities and his participation in Communist China propaganda

publications.

He was one of the founders of Fair Play for Cuba

Committee; was President of the New York Chapter and became

Acting National Executive Secretary in 1961.

In 1960 he was

forced to resign as Columbia Broadcasting System newsman for

publicly expressing himself as sympathetic to the Castro regime.

In 1961 he was accredited to the United Nations as correspondent

for a Cuban publication, "Revolucion."

• In September, 1962, he

went to Algeria where he remained until April, 1963.

He then went

-to Switzerland and Paris representing "Africa, Latin-America;

Asia Revolution," a publication reportedly financed by Communist

China and he remained with that organization until 1964 when he

became suspect as a Central Intelligence Agent by others affiliated

with that publication,

* He is now in London and is having financial

difficulties.

At his request, Gibson was interviewed by Bureau Agents

on August 16, 1962, during which he indicated he would assist the

Bureau;or Central Intelligence Agency in return. for money but not

because of allegiance to the United States.

He stated he did not

particularly like the Bureau and interviewing Agents described him

as a weasel-like character, evasive, opportunistic with very little

105-93072

EJK : 1sg (7)

REG- 25.

As g 12/23/94 SOS MACISAT

Classifie

105-23020724

RIN

Declassin on Lo, gAn

BER SET T

BBUUNS

JUN

2.

1965

1965

5 441

HH 50953

DocId:32339275

Page 10

---

## Page 11

Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan.

Re:

Richard Thomas Gibson

105-93072

SECRET

or no moral fiber at all.: Obviously, we turned down his

offer and advised Central Intelligence Agency who indicated

they did not plan to contact him.

That Agency on May 7, 1965,

advised that they are now operating the subject as a source.

He is now in Europe and may travel to Africa and Southeast

Asia on behalf of that Agency S

OBSERVATIONS:

In view of subject's questionable character and

past activities, it is not belleved that we should

• exonerate

him solely because he is

operating as a Central Intelligence

Agency source: Rather than be lulled into a false sense of

security, we will continue to be most circumspect with him

and continue to follow his activities until he proves beyond

any reasonable doubt that he is not dangerous to the internal

security of the United States in time of a national emergency

RECOMMENDATION:

Index.

That we retain the subjecty's name in the Security

#W.e.x

SECRETI

=2-

NH 50953

DocId: 32339275

Page

11

---

## Page 12

TO

SUBJECT:

12/03/981

Classified by

Declassify o0:

8 MACISAT T

william

Summan

OpIONAL FORM NE. 1

5010-105-03

MAMAS2 EDITION

GS. JEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES G

RNMENT

Memorandum

Director, FBI (105-93072)

DATE:

5/26/65

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

Legat, London

(100-2611)

(P)

WHERE

SHOWN OTHERWISE.

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

l palas seman casi

PerciALecter 1-1x-8

fued (5)

IS - CUBA

741-750

00:

NY

DECRET

RUSHING

Remylet 4/26/650

T.D

On 5/19/65

_ CIA, London, advised that

CIA had recruited

and he has been furnishing

considerable information which has been forwarded to

CIA Headquarters.

CIA, London, has requested that

their headquarters furnish to the Bureau all pertinent

information and also to advise the Bureau of this re-

cruitment.

Summer of 1965. /

CIA plaus to send subject to Algeria in thei

the following information

ROUTING

ADAIS

54% 1012

which came from subject:

ROBERT WILLIAMS,

an American Negro who

Cuba in about 1961, is currently in

is in contact with subject.

Subject recently

received

a letter

from WILLIAMS in

quested help in

terms of

money and also

ahse assistance in

getting wider distribution for WILLIAMS' book.

WILLIAMS made reference to the CPUSA ('the GUS

crowd"'),

"they were still giving me a

UNRECORDED COP:

terrible time"

or words

to that effect.

WILLIAMS

considerable antipathy for the CPUSA and terminated

with a statement to

the effect that the U.S.

be a safe or

fit place for anyone to live if

(CPUSA)

such a take-over

B8 Mot unlikely,

"This sessed bratitude

CIA had no further identifyIng

information on

93072-18

but stated

that subject is continuing

with him and any

further information

received will be

furnishedthis office.

WILT pointed out: that the informa-

tion on WILLIAMS had

not been reported to his headquarters

and he was giving it to this

office for any action

London is unable to identity wIllIAMswinour files

Bureau

- Liaison

1 - London

(direct.

CWB:

-965-095 к

2 JUN 2 1905

rewillering

And

e

NATE, SEC.

HH 50953

DocId: 32339275

Page 12

---

## Page 13

TO

FRO

SUBJECT:

*OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-107

-CAN GEN IT, NO. 27

UNITED STATES

VERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-93072)

SAC, WFO (105-42103) (RUC)

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS

Cuba

(00:NY)

DATE:

5/24/65

thre

Re Legat, London letter to Bureau 3/29/65. U

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies of a

forth results of a review

of the files of the

Passport office,

United States Department of State,

IC THOMAS C. NORTON,

Jr. Also enclosed for the Bureau

are 'six copies and one negative of the photo appearing on

the subject's 1961 passport application.

New York Is one copy of the IlM inasmuch as New York is D0. 4

The enclosed LHM contains all the information

in the passport file since it was last reviewed by

office on 5/2561.

which information was furnished by WFO

report dated 6/28/61, of SA JOHN L. SPURGERS, Jr.

The Fair Play for Cuba Committee,

which is

mentioned in the enclosed LHM is described

in the enclosed

appendix.

Bureau (Enc.

16)

CONTAINED

TCN : gma

date 8 - -tclt

105-93072122

*7 CHUN

23 > ENCL

URE

"ENCLOSURE ATTACHED"

REC- 41

1 MAY 25 1965

Copy to: CIA/STATE/RAO

ONI /OSI/ACSI

By routing slip for info.

Date 6-2-65

to get ge

NAI

31965 1 15 Sarings Tinad, Regularly on is Fael Saring Pla

HH 50953

DocId: 32339275 Page 13

---

## Page 14

-TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON XX D.C.

May 24, 1965

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

The files of the Passport Office, United States

Department of State, were reviewed on April 20,

1965,

by a

representative of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and

disclosed the following information:

On Many 24, 1961,

at London, England, Richard

Thomas Gibson renewed passport B131994 which was issued on

January 25, 1961,

20535

Mark's Place, New York, New York.

He indicated that he

intended to continue residing abroad "indefinitely,

business - Leaving UK January 25, 1964."/

thomas

In the event of death or accident,

that his wife, Mrs. Joy Gibson, c/o Kaye, 3

Mansions, Finchley Road, London, N.W. 3,

Langland

was the person to

be notified.

On March 19, 1964,

Kenneth B. Keating,

States Senate,

letter to Frederick G. Dutton,

Assistant Secretary of State, which enclosed a newspaper

clipping from

"The Christian Science Monitor" of March 5,

1964,

entitled "'Peking Base in Paris." This article

describes the establishment of an English language edition

o1 a publication called "Revolution," committed to the

Chinese Communist point of view, and headed by Richard

Gibson. Senator Keating's letter stated,

in part,

Gibson was formerly Acting Executive Secretary

Fair Play for Cuba Committee in the United States.

further stated that Gibson appeäred before the Senäte

Internal Security Subcommittee on April 25,

"and May 16,

1961, and consistently refused to answer any questions regarding

his communist affiliations.

Senator Keating mentioned the passport which was

ATil:

FORMATION CONTAINED

TERRER IS U

03 02345 SMACGAT-

(JFK)

105-93072122

ENCLOSURE

NH 50953

DocId:32339275 Page

14

---

## Page 15

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

issued to Gibson on January 25, 1961, and stated that

"from the article it appears that this individual is now

using this passport to enable him to carry activities

against the United States through a Chinese Communist

network which reaches to various parts of the World.

would appreciate your comments as to whether such activities

contribute to United States foreign policy objectives and,

if not, what can be done to prevent such action by United

states citizens."

By undated letter, Mr. Dutton wrote Senator Keating

and stated, in part,

that "The present activities of Mr.

Gibson to which you

refer in your letter will be carefully

examined to determine if they are prejudicial to the

orderly conduct of United States relations within the meaning

of Section 51, 136 (b) of the Department's Passport

Regulations.

In order to take any passport action

regulations,

the activitles must be of such a nature as to

ously interferewith relations between the United States and

foreign governments and, under existing regulations,

fact must be established by evidence or witnesses at a

hearing in the Passport Office."

By letter of April 28, 1964, Mr. Dutton advised

Senator Keating that "The Department's passport regulations

provide,

in 22 C.F.R. 51. 136, for refusal of passport

facilities,

except for direct

and immediate return to the

United States,

to aperson whose activities would be

prejudicial to the orderly conduct of foreign relations

or otherwise prejudicial to the interests of the United

States.

If the newspaper clipping which you enclosed with

your letter accurately describes Mr. Gibson's present

activities in Paris,

those activitles obviously are not

helpful to United States foreign policy objectives.

It is

another question, however, whether they are so prejudicial

to the orderly conduct of

United States foreign relations

or the interests of the United States to justify the limitation

of passport facilities under Section 51. 136 of

the

Department's regulations.

On the basis of available

information, the Department has concluded they are not.

However, we are asking our Embassy at Paris for information

regarding Mr. Gibson's activities.

Any further information

- 2-

HH 50953

DocId:32339275

Page

15

---

## Page 16

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

we receive will,

of course, be carefully considered in the

light of the existing passport laws and regulations."

Robert E. Lee, Acting Assistant Secretary For

Congressional Relations, sent a letter

to Senator Keating on

September 30,

1964, which stated, in part,

that "the

Supreme Court in the Flynn and Aptheker decisions rendered

moot the question of withdrawing Mr. GIbson's passport

because of alleged Communist activities®

the Flynn

and Aptheker cases concerned Section 6 of the

the Internal

Security act of 1950 which (1) made it unlawful for any

member of a Communist organization to apply for a passport

or to use a passport, and (2) made it unlawful for any

officer or employee of the United States to issue a passport

to or to renew the passport of any individual

knowing or

having reason to believe that such

individual is a member

of such organization. The Supreme Court held that Section 6

was unconstitutional because

it swept too widely and too

indiscriminately

across

the freedom to travel guaranteed

in the Fifth Amendment."

Sources utilized in the Appendix have furnished

reliable information

in the past. u

- 3

HH 50953

DocId: 32339275

Page

16

---

## Page 17

* RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

APPENDIX

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

The April 6, 1960, edition of "The New York Times"

newspaper contained a fullopage advertisement captioned

"what Is Really Happening In Cuba," placed by the fair Play

for Cuba Committee (FPCC. This advertisement announced

the formation of the FPCC in New York City

and declared the

FPCC intended to promulgate

othe truth about revolutionary

Cuba"' to neutralize the distorted American press.

rhe New York Times" edition of January 11,

reported

that at a hearing conduoted before the united states

Senate Internal Security Subcommittee on January 10,1961,

Dre Charles A. Santos Buch identified himsell and Robert

Taber as organizers of the FPCC. He also testified he and

Taber obtained funds fron the Cuban Goverment which were

applied toward the cost of the aforementioned advertisement.

On May 16,

between Communist Party (CP) and Socialist Workers Party (SWP)

elements to exert their power within the FPCC and thereby.

influence IPCC policy.

This source added that during the

past year there had been a successful effort by FPCC leadership

of these and other organizations in

the

FPCC so that their influence as of May, 1963, was negligible.

The SWP has been designated pursuant to Executive

Order 10450•

On May 20,

1963,

a second source advised that

Vincent

"Ted" Lee,

FPCC National Office Director,

was then

formulating FPCC policy and had indicated that he

had no

intention of permitting FPCC policy to be determined by any

other organization.

This source

stated that lee believed

that the FPCC should advocate resumption of diplomatic

relations between Cuba and the United States and should

support the right of Cubans to manage their revolution

without interference from other nations. lee did

not

advocate supporting the Cuban revolution per se.

- 4 -

NN 50953

DocId:32339275

Page 17

---

## Page 18

- RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

APPENDIX

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTES

The November 23, 1963,

edition of "The New York

Times" reported that Senator Thomas J, Dodd of Connecticut

had called FPCC "the chief public relations instrument of

the Castro network in the United States."

It 1s to be noted

thatSenator Dodd was a member of the senate Internal

Security Subcommittee which twice conducted hearings on

the FPCC.

The December 27, 1963, edition of "The New York

World Telegram and Sun" newspaper stated that the pro Castro

FPCC was seeking to go out of business and that ses prime

activity during its lifetime had been sponsorship of pro

Castro street rallies and mass picket lines, and the

direction of an active propaganda mill highlighting illegal

travel-to Cuba campaigns. Its comparatively brief span of

life was attributed to mounting anti Castro American public

opinion, the 1962 Congressional hearings which disclosed

FPCC financing by Castro's United Nations Delegation, and

ultimately, the bad publicity which the fPcc received from

disclosure of activities. on its behalf by suspected

presidential assassin Lee H. Oswald.

On February 6, 1964, the previously mentioned

second source advised that V. T. Lee had recently remarked that t

the FPCC was dead and that there were no plans to organize

another similar organization.

On April 13: 1964

& third

source advised that

there had not been any F'PCC activity in many months and

that the FPCC had been dissolved.

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI. It is the property of

the FBl and is leaned to your agency:

it and its contents are not to be

distributed cutside your agency."

5. -

Nt 70953

DocId: 32339275 Page 18

---

## Page 19

•t/y

1(17.50953

DooId: 32339275

Page

19

---

## Page 20

#7+10

NORTON

105-42103

Enc. for Bureau (7)

• Bufile 105-93072

WrOfile 105-42103

By letter dated

5/ 24/65

90146-10107

AT IN RATION CONTAINED On envelape

+$ UNCIASSIFIED

Đ. 75 12/23/95

_BYSp& MACGAZ

(JFK)

NH 50953 DocId: 32339275

Page 20

---

## Page 21

OPTIONAL FORMINO, 10

5010-108-03

, MAY 1962 EDITIÓN

GSA GEN. REG, NO. 27

UNITED STATES GF

'RNMENT

Memoran.dum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-93072)

DATE: 4/26/65

FROM O

SUBJECT:

LEGAT, LONDON (100-2611) (P)

RICHARD THOMAS

GIBSON

IS - CUBA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

WEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPTI

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

00: NY

10

Remylet 3/29/65.M

SECRET

On April 20, 1965, L

I CIA, London, furnished

highly sensitive information

which was

classified Secret,

regarding subject. This was as follows:

(S

On April 2, 1965, "DICK" (the subject), called

PABLO at the Cuban Embassy, London. PABLO said he had

given "DICK"s" telephone number to a woman who wanted to see

him.

PABLO had, however, given the wrong number.

The correct

number is PRImrose 8778.

The girl is going to stay in the

United Kingdom.

(NOTE: The girl is evidently FRANCES KELLEY

of the "Monthly Review" of New York, who

a few days ago

letter of introduction to PABLO from LEO HUBERMAN,

who she had

worked with in New York.) PABLO added that LEO' is now in

MexiCO:

PABLO has much news for

DICKY

and will call him later

the same day to arrange a meeting.

S

123

The above information is from

a highly sensitive

technical

CIA, London.

100-8436.

It is requested that the Bureau identify

KELLEY and

furnish any pertinent information. The Bureau should mention

uhat, se any, coverage 1s desira 05 - 9310702-121

asto

SARMACGAT SECRET

Nosy dot

DADE,

3

- Bureau BE DOW ILEr DIA

2

APR 29 1965

1

Liaison SectiF (sent direct)

san...

2

- London

4742) 3 21 602

CWB: ec

(6)

DO MAYT

Copy to.

by routing slip for

into

action

NATI

1.

SEC,

NN 70953

DocId: 32339275 Page 21

---

## Page 22

---E(MEV. I-22-60)

ciatober Buregu of Investigatior

records bran

, 19 6s

Name Searching Unit - Room 6527

Service Unit - Room 6524

Forward to File Review

Attention

return rapine don"

627RB

supervisor

Ext.

Type of References Requested:

Regular Request (Analytical Search)

All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

I Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive References Only

Main 105,

, 188

- References Only

Type of Search Requested:

Restricted to Locality of -

ry

Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

Buildup

Variations.

Subject.

Birthdate & Place

Trance Kette

Address

Localities

RA.

• Prod.

Date

3

Searcher

Initials

NSI

FILE NUMBER

160-325461-321

Em

SERIAL

ALL INTORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFLED

2A. 2/21/95

B: SOEMACGAZ

JFK

NH 50953

DocId: 32339275 Page 22

---

## Page 23

TO

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAT BYOL COITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

ar. Sullivan Wers

F.J. Baumsardnor 55370

Tolson -

Belmont -

Mohi --

DeLoach -

Casper -

Callahan -

Conrad -

Felt -

Gale

DATE: 4/22/65

Rosen

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

• Sullivan -

Tavel .

HEREIN IS UNCLASS'FIED EXCEPT

Trotter -

Tele. Room

MMERE SHOWN OTHENMISE

Holmes --

Gandy

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

INTERNAL SECURITY - CHINA

SEGRET.

On 4/14/65,

through liaison with Central Intelligence

Agency (CIA),

information was received that Richard Gibson is

currently "talking" with CIA officials in London.

It was indi

cated Gibson had only within the past few weeks been in contact

with, CIA and that he is furnishing information relating to Chinese

Communist activities.

It was not indicated whether Gibson was

being developed by CIA as a confidential source or a defector-

in-place.

However, it should be noted that Gibson has recently

been subjected to suspicion by the left wing.

(S)

As a matter of background, Gibson was a, founder and

national official of the fair Play for Cuba Committee.

' In

September, 1962,

he left the United States and thereafter he

ding

resided in Algeria,

Switzerland and France,

was i member of the Editorial Committee of

Until last year, he

"Revolution,

2. :

monthly To Chinese propaganda magazine published in Paris..

Gibson

is "included on the Security Index of the New

York Office.

Classitio by

Dain o! Coulasalle

REC- 26

For information.

105-93072

1 - Mr. Sullivan

Mr o

Baumgardner

Mr •

Anderson

Mr •

Papich

Nir •

Mullins

Mr.

Ryan

DR: gem/Itx/

12/23/94

Classified U bye

Declassify

QUE

SMACGAT

OADR

(JAK)

SECRET

196%

scottie

130

1a06

5160/78

105-93672-120

25 APR 26-1965

KRit

SEt.

Ansofian

6. Mookie

NH 50953 DocId: 32339275 Page 23

---

## Page 24

TO

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GE ERNMENT

Memorandum

: Director, FBI (105-93072)

(100-2611) (P)

DATE:

3/29/65

SUBJECT:

Juit

RICHARD GIBSOI

IS - CUBA

00: NY

CONFIDENTIAE

Remy let 2/11/65. U

On 3/19/65 Detective Sgt. KIRK, Special Branch,

New Scotland Yard, London, advised that he is currently

conducting an investigation concerning GIBSON and that

a photograph of subject would be most helpful

•It is noted subject holds U.S. Passport No.

B-131994 and the Bureau is requested to have passport

photographs obtained and forwarded to this office.

This

case will be kept in a pending status

awaiting Bureau reply.

4

- Bureau

- Liaison

I - London

ACM : vw

(5)

Denie tom Cosi

Gates Dachas

REC- 15

3116/78

105-23022-119.

2 MAR 31 1965

CONFIDENTIAL

Copy to

W. F.O.

by routing slip for

• info

D action

1-60- 6

he tandle lead at Passport

Office promplle

EX-I03

2 11 07)

9022"

58 APR 7

1965

APPROS

ATE AMI

TES

AND FIEL.

OFFACES

ADVISED BY

OUTING

SLIP (S)eT ClassiFication

DATE,

SpEr

NH 50953 DocId: 32339275 Page 24

---

## Page 25

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

Name

Aliases

F'D-122 (Rev, 4-17-63)

COPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

3010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Director, FBI (Bufile- 105-93072

DATE:

3/29/65

It is recommended that a Security

Index Card be prepared on the

above-captioned individual.

NEW YORK (105-42387)

Cards UTD

RICHARD THOMAS

"GIBSON

Hards, Sent 00

IS - CUBA

4/6/65

(00: NEW YORK)

ALL INTON

CLASSIFIED

ERE SHOWN

UNAVAILABLE SECTION

EXCEPT

[X The Security Index Card on the

captioned individual should be

changed as follows (specify

change only):

1.8

80

0:V68

'Alien

189

*E 1 Independent Socialist League

Sex

- Male

XI0377379

Native Born

Naturalized

Communist

Miscellaneous (specify)

Socialist Workers Party

OUT OF THE COUNTRY

Race

Tab for Detcom

Date of Birth

Place of Birth

CAIV

Business Address (show name of employing concern and address)

ASE INFORMATION CONTAINED

MERTIN IS UNCLASSIFIER

DATE DAIN BYSOR MAUGHT

Key Facility Data

FK

Geographical Reference Number

Interested Agencies

Residence Address

_Responsibility

105-93072-

30 Stockleigh Hall, Prince Albert Road

London, NW 8, England

NOT RECORDED

oidedu

(RM)

1

MAR 81 1965

New York

C RRGISTBRED MAIL

JEH/cme:

58 APR

7965

(3)

IRO=

SUBY

NH 50953 DocId: 32339275 Page 25

_ Female

SiC.

---

## Page 26

FD-366 (5-5-64)

UNan

ND STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

Manch 29,1965

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

BUf1le 105-93072

NYfile

105-42387

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

Memorandum dated 1/6/64.

Referenced communication contained subject's residence and/or employment

address. A recent change has been determined and is being set forth below (change

only specified):

Residence:

30 Stockleigh Haml, Prince Albert Roac

London NW 8, Englanc

Employment:

ATE INTORMATION CONTAINED

info

by....

I action

FD-122 DETACHED

105-93022-

NOT RECORDED

1

MAR 31 1965

58 APR 5

jub 5 8 18h4,02

DOW TWIERE DIN

is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NN 70953

DocId: 32339275 Page 26

---

## Page 27

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

3010-105-03

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO

RNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

121058

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-93072)

Ous: 447, doDos (200-2612) 18;

DATE: 2/11/65

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPTI

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

SUBJECT:

RICHARD GIBSON

IS - CUBA

00: NY"

RICHARD THOmAS. GiBSON

4=1.

pd

Remylet 1/18/65. U

On January. 25, 1965, under a Secret classification,

British Security Service, MI-5 furnished a Secret report

two copies of which are attached. MI-5 pointed out that

their information comes from a number of secret sources

and they request that it not be further disseminated.

A copy of the same information has been furnished to

CIA, London

ENCLOSURE

3 - Bureau

• (Enics. 2)

1 - Liaison Section (sent direct)

1 - London

CWB:ec

(5)

littert

•Co

tion

ROFRIATE AGEN

TING

AND

Glassied

Declassify on:

DOWN IMLENT DIA

BECAD

SOSMANIGAT

OADR

(37H)

69 FEB 2 5 1965

NH 50953

DocId: 32339275 Page 27

SECRETO

REC 15/05-93072-118

10 FEB 15 1965

SEC.

NAI®

Clapstiled by

Exempi trom GOS,

1289

RicE

3/16/18

dvra-d0l6.8

---

## Page 28

WUH!

50953 • 000Id: 32339275

Page 28

---

## Page 29

on Angeles on 1500g

, stockteler tall

nas Abest Road, Beaten, BBA.

INSO hes bean corseted with the po Chene Counter molsention

Revolutios" end fts predooescos, Africon Revolation", at least since

AprIl, 1963 Fo nade avaltolo the salloring intomation about timell as

paro of a publielty onpico plomod for "Antonn Rovelation" la the first

hots of 19631°

1954-521

1955 333

19508

1962,

Dares of tha

tron vith the tachich tonging series ot

"Agenco Frones Freese" in Partog

arrested by the French ethortiles Deosase of

de vost for the Alertan Matsonal Liberatisor

trenty

We No one esployed by tiss

ComeS. Nows in New Yort until disalened booguse

of hto pro-Olon eotivities, 39

aarded o GaD.S. Pollershty in Arrioes Studfee

at Coluntle Driversatgs

amenave Soortery of the Tair May fer Cuba"

In 1963, CIBSON Livod in lanana, where Atrious novolution" and

subsequently the Hoglish odition of "Kevolution" vere printed, but ho pala

froqent plate to Devolution'o" Faris offleo until the end of the yorr

when

Revolution" men banned in Suitoorlend and ho was refused porsleston to

contrene to livo there. i de then settled ta Perso were,

acoording to one

report, bo an his wife lived In "quito a lumous lat"- It rould, horever,

Do wons to infer tron tate that sibicy's means eschlod lto to anary kign

Living standarde, as another scarco mosquently reported that ho had nat

padd ony rent for the Net fra May to October, 1964.

se: fos

boes as lagunt, (963, there vero nasure la Conuntat otroles, do

London that SIMON was an Anorioon agent and shat be hoû movided holted

States Intelligenes with the neros-of cortein midentified lalted States

negroes in accordenes with o balef rocuired fron the worles. Intoration

Pron a woll-plocod soires sugsesto that these rnours may have origited..

tron the jentoas reactiona of too persono, comested with "owlasten, sbose

aspirations with the mbllestion vero out short whon CINON besno Aditos

of the inglich edition. lovever, by me 196e, VirGes, the Kaitortel Dirator

•* "Novolutton", mo claining that complaints shout Claron'e astavitios lod

been rocolved not only frun londor. but also fros Obey inertoon nestos in

New York and a malativo of GIABOU's no mos porking for the asgnetne "Sport"

in Chatte

Ao o mealt, CISC me dinalssed Iros tho olitorial staff of

Povolntton". Charges undo agatest him Inelude the folleute"

/ (a):

19°

ALL FBIINFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN /S

UNGLASSIFIED

DATEL2/23/94 BxSO8 MANBAT

(OFK)

MY DocTd: DocTd: 32329275/Rave 29/0020

---

## Page 30

SECRET

• 2-

(b)

inforsing ths millioutton's outaats in Chine that

"Revolutten" me Oisintegsing:

(e)

moviding Yowens" ond the "How York Morale Tribe

Ath infomotion la an stiago to disoroist "leveletson"

(a)

cons with the C1h

Although bians ins denied the shron ande seniset hia, he remitoes that

they have black on that le pill do sone soure batoro so «11l be acceptable

to any left ving eraintant.

AGiBSON

In duly, 190% G3ns0h went to the untted Singie/on 7th Vetober sed vast

jotnod Inter by Mo trition ulio, soy heronto, on ho tre enildre

No

hoped to find vort ln lonion, but st the end of Movester, ho sao stal

Stout a job and dependent so bis vito's hasty, ino core paying the rat

b bis Mor ot 30, Stocent Hall, Whoso Albart Road, onus

Eres

Netháng da knon at presat chout: O13S0k*s contrete in las United

Bingon.

Although dorias no time ho norbos for "revolution" ke sos 1n

toass vith nonbers of the pro Chtnose Cummat aplinter erup i8 t28

to hit on that co he be to the me on or a spot the

he e11l) loops in tonch vic the colored couts dtries Jarsallet, Monal

P2:1994, not do noloyod baths Chloao bacted ulso-salen Joumaltats"

Ancoolatios (Aster-A,) In Aletarts

"Arronialen Jouralia", so. di anted

July 19un, on maland by so retadoo

seatedne as uticle "to hovolationy

NH

50953,

DooTa: 32339275 Page 30

---

## Page 31

SECRET

_CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

14 JAM: 1965

TO

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM

Deputy Director for Plans

SUBUNCT: GIBSON, Richara -105-85071

1. A usually reliable source had reported the following

summary of his conversation in London in late December 1964 with

Richard GIBSON, a free-lance writer, former Chairman of the Fair

Play for Cuba Committee and former editor of the English 'edition

of Révolution. GIBSON, a very light-skinned American negro

married to an Englishwoman, was working in the Columbia Broadeast-

ing System (CBS) newsroom when along with another colleague, Robert..

Yoder, he established the Fair Play for Cuba Committee in the early

1960's. GIBSON was in Cuba several times in 1961 and had met Fidel

Castro Ruz and Ernesto Guevara Serna, and various other Cuban

officials.

NEW

for

Copy to,

by roadiag nip

2. Richard GIBSON stated that he knew quite well Robert

Williams the American Negro from Monroe, North Carolina, who ha

emigrated to Cuba and now seems to commute between there and Peiping,

China.

3. According to GIBSON, he felt that the situation among Ame

negroes (from what he could tell in Europe) was becoming. very

dangerous.: He said

that he had met in both London and Paris quite

few young American negroes in their late teens passing through en

route to Prague, Czechoslovakia or Habana, Cuba for guerrilla andf

sabotage training. He further said he had the feeling that within

six nonthe to a year these trainees would segin tent trating backster,

into the United States in pursuance of Williams' idea of an urban

guerrilla movement.

CONTAINED XEROX

94 SOSMACISAT

JFK

ALL FBI INFORMATION

SIFIED

HEREIN

DATE /2/623

69 FEB

gubao cat?

Êtee, GIBSON

re.

lated that he was recommended by theilAlgerian Ambassador to the

United Nations (name not given) to

of Révolution

105

93Q

CSCI- 316/00038-6-

REC. 18.

7a

€

JAN 29 1965

1-K699

The ty

19651

SECRET

3077

Honour

Excited frors automatic

enraling and

-declassifiention

NH 50953

D001d: 32339275

Page 31

---

## Page 32

SECRET

-2-

africaine in Algiers, which was

then edited by Jacques Verges.

When

the Algerians removed Verges, GIBSON stated that he followed

Verges to Paris where the latter set up Revolution. According to

GIBSON, he served as editor of its English-language version first

in Paris and then in Lausanne, Switzerland, until a few months ago,

when he split with verges, who still owes him money and whom he is

Verges himself loved French high society, good food and lux-,

urious living and spent most of his time in political agitation. The

magazine was in fact largely edited by a Vietnamese on its staff who

often wrote under other pseudonyms. The sale of the magazine was

actually quite small.

The Chinese bought about 3,000 copies of each

Issue but recently as many as 15,000 copies of each issue were piling

up unsold In a garret in Paris. Andersen in lausanne

a paid entnese agent but te was on dad tens with verses definitely

5. Source indicated that GIBSON seemed to be a very relaxed and:

quite humorous negro intellectual. GIBSON said he had worked for

Révolution because of his interests in African and Asian independence

movements - had never considered himself a Communist and did not now.

Revolution; according to GIBSON, had many personal contacts with Trot-

skyites and their was certainly considerable Trotskyite influence in it.

71666

has a continuing interest in Centre Lenine, a propaganda organ

reportedly sponsored by the Chinese Communists.

CSCI-316/00038-65

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addressee

1. - Department of State

SECRET

50953

DocId: 32339275 Page 32

---

## Page 33

could

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-108-03

MAY 1892 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO,

RNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-93072)

DATE: 1/18/65

LEGAT, LONDON (100-2611) (P)

SUBJECT:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPTI

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

RICHARD GIBSON

IS - CUBA

00: NEW YORK

ER03G

SECRET

ReBulet to Director, Central Intelligence Agency,

December 1, 1964, U

The CIA Office in London has advised that they are

instituting investigation by British Security Service, MI-5

on subject.

from

MI-5 will be furnished to this office.

CIA referred to information

sent they a ted tenced

letter indicating subject was a CIA agent.

They asked if

this office had any additional data on that particular point.

They were informed that we did not have.

If the Bureau is

Non aware of further information regarding this, it is believed

fit would be helpful and of interest to CIA, London

We are following this matter here and will keep

the Bureau advised®

1 Copy 8.

V7" T72

New).

JoRK

ate

1-28-65

3

& JAN 291965

PROGRIATE AGENC

PILD OFFICE

ADVISED

STING

SLIP (S)

Lassifivation

DATE

3 - Bureau

1 - Liaison Section (sent direct)

1 - London

CWB: ec

(5)

TS NAU

than try

= Exemperom GoS, Cat

023.

classied by

So& MACGAT

Declassify on:

DADR

(JFK

14 JAN 22

T51022

i 4:

NN 70953

DooId: 32339275

Page 33

---

## Page 34

TO

FRON

SUBJECT:

Name

Aliases

FD-122 (Rev. 4-17-63)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-100

MAY 196Z EDITION

GSA GEN, REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Directer, FBI (Bufile- 105-93072

DATE:

NEW YORK (105-42387)

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS - CUBAN

(00: NEW YORK)

It is recommended that a Security

Index Card be prepared on the

above-captioned individual.

TON CONSA

SLASSIFILD

ALL INFORMA

HEREIN IS

ERE SHOWN

EXCEPT

OTHERWI

1/6/65

Cards UTD

4/13

Cards Seat 00

UNAVAILABLE SECTION

XI. The Security, Index Card on the

• captioned individual should be

_changed as"follows (specify

change only)

CO

SEPARATEL

DD

Native Born

• Naturalized

3 Alien

Communist

Socialist Workers Party

OUT OF THE COUNTRY

7 Independent Socialist League

Miscellaneous (specify)

Sex

" gi

Race

Tab for Detcom

Male

Date of Birth

Place of Birth

Business Address (show name of employing concern and address)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

BISp& MACIGAT

Key Facility Data

(07K)

105-93072-

NOT RECORDED

14 JAN 11 1965

Geographical Reference Number

_ Responsibility

Interested Agencies

Residence Address

° Banana 30, 59 eCl,Ys5p9p 8-C. 2, Englan

2-Bureau (RM)

56 JANET 81985

JEH/ стс

REGISTERED MAIL

(3)

VECC

NH 50953

DocId: 32339275 Page 34

_ Female

---

## Page 35

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

Man 112 cellin

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES

ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (105-93072)

FROM

SAC, NEW YORK (105-42387) (0)

DATE:

1/15/65

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

SUBJECT:

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON aka

IS - CUBA

IS - CH

CONFIDENTIAL

BIC

Cloomenand by

Evernot fram G05

Re report of SA ROGER H. LEE,

1/31/64, at NY

and Legat Paris letter to Bureau,

enclosed LHM.

12/8/64,

with

Referenced Legat Paris letter, 12/8/64,

indicates that Issue 10-11, July-August, 1964 of

"Revolution,"

a monthly Chinese propaganda publication,

published in Paris, France, contains information to the

effect that GIBSON had been dismissed from his position

as a member of the Editorial Committees of "Revolution."

Referenced letter further indicates that members of the

American CP reportedly nave forwardea documents to

"Revolution," establishing that GIBSON was working on

behalf of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).

Referenced

letter further reflects that GIBSON and his

wife are presently residing incare of ALFRED HENRI

MARK JEFFRIES, 9 BasinghalSt., London. E. C. 2, England.

A review of subject's case file reflects that

GIBSON has resided abroad. since September, 1962. L

with some of the cuban activity in the NYC area,

contacted on the dates indicated and advised they could

furnish no information concerning any pro-cuban activity

on the part of the subject:

H

Bureau (RM)

- New York

JEH:mrk

ĐOD 16

(3)

12/2394

classiel by So& mACGAT.

Declassity ons

OAD&

JFK)

m55 1 1200 02EX-108

185-93072-115

JAN 18 1965

1.85

NAT.

"FEB 3

1965

NH 50953 DocId: 32339275 Page 35

---

## Page 36

CONFIDENTIAD

NY 105-42387

Informants

Date Contacted

Contacting Agent

NY 3164-S

3468-5

3467-5

NY

3367-S

CSNY

2623-S

ESNY 2822-3*

1/11/65

1/6/65

/11/65

15/61

1/7/65

1/8/65

JOHN EDWARD HEGARTY

VINCENT J. WARGER

C. DALE SCHWANT

MAURICE H. LAUZIERE

FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

The following confidential informants, familiar

with' some of the Chinese Communist activities in the NYC

area, were contacted on the dates indicated and advised

that they did not know the subject. U

Informants

Date Contacted

Contagting Agent

.4858-BSI

NY 4629-BSI

1/11/65

1/12/65

1/12/65

CSNY 1075-S

1/12/65

1/12/65

JOHN E. MANNING

JOHN E. MANNING

CHARLES WEHRLE

CHARLES WEHRLE

CHARLES WEHRLE

CONFIDENTIAL

2

NH 50953

DocId: 32339275 Page

36

---

## Page 37

FD-305 (Rev. 9-19-62)

NY 105-42387

1.

2.

6.

CONEIDENTIAL

Subject's name is included in the Security Index.

The data appearing on the Security Index card are current.

Changes on the Security Index card are necessary and

not available.

Subject is employed in a key facility and

charged with security responsibility. Interested agencies

are

This

report is classified

because

(state reason

7.

[X

Subject previously interviewed (dates)

9/20/61

Subject was not reinterviewed because (state reason

subject has

been abroad since September, 1962.

This case no longer meets the Security Index criteria

and a letter has been directed to the Bureau recommending

cancellation of the Security Index card.

This case has been re-evaluated in the light of the

Security Index criteria and it continues to fall within

such criteria because (state reason)

until September, 1962, GIBSON was acting National Executive

Secretary of the

Fair

196г 4ay

Play for Cuba Committee.

Untt1 August,

1964, GIBSON

propaganda publication,

published in Paris, France.

10. L subject's SI card

Subject's activities

tabbing.

is not tabbed Detcom.

do not warrant Detcom

- 3 -

CONFIDENTIAL

NH 50953 DocId: 32339275 Page 37

---

## Page 38

dul

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104-01

'UNITED STATES GO'

RNMENT

Memorandum

16

TO

: Director, FBI (105-93072)

DATE:

12-8-64

BONPIDENTIAD

FROM : Legat, Paris (105-1270) (RUC)

SUBJECT:

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS - CUBA

L INCORMATION CONTAINED

HENEN IS UNCLASSIFIED. EXCEPTI

WINENE SHOWA OTHERMISE

Re Paris letter 10-29-64.

Enclosed are 5 copies for the Bureau and 1 for

London of an LHM containing information received from the

JrectIon de la survelllance du lerritolre (Dst)

French

romestic counterespionage service, (T-1), on 12-7-64.

It is noted that the subject was apparently dis

missed from his position

the magazine

"Revolution,as English language editor for

• a pro-Chinese Communist publication

for allegedly attempting to "penetrate" the international

revolutionary movement.

ALAIN MONTARRAS of the DST stated

that he was suspected by the publishers of this magazine

and other individuals with whom he worked of being a CIA

agent.

The DST gives his present residence as in care of

ALFRED HEN

MARK JEFFRIES, 9 Basinghall Street, London E.C. 2,

England.

The

LHM is classified confidential since the

information contained therein was so classified by the

DST

The DST also furnished the information to CIA, Paris.

Classtled by

Exemptrem

- Bureau (Enc.

SACROSURE

(1 - Liaison

Section, enc.

- London (Enc.

se (sent direct)

/ co NEw York wilt

by routiar dip for

~ Paris 2/23194

NWP :HD

в 122514-64.

(5)

classified ly Sp& MACISAT

Declassify 00:

OADR

OPK

• хекохес

Copy to; CIA/State/RAO; 754

XeROXy routing slip for

ONI/OSI/ACSD& U5 T/IA

Date 12-17-672b

into. LLÄ Sepp

RECT 105-232782-114

3 DEG 14 1964

APPROEN

• AND TIM

ADVISED

SLIP

DATE

AME AGE

INCIES

CIES

lassiFicaton

JJB/mky

6DEC

DONASENHAL

NH 50953 DocId: 32339275 Page 38

---

## Page 39

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

1 8 00 14

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIDENTIAL

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

December 8, 1964

ALL INFORMATION CONTAMED

HEREIN IS UNCLASS DIED. EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE,

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

T-1, a confidential source abroad, furnished the

following

information on December 7, 1964:

THOMAS RICHARD GIBSON, born May 13, 1931, at

Los Angeles, California, resided at 28 avenue Simon Bolivar,

Paris 19.

He originally entered France on December 15,

1954 After following studies at the University of Paris,

he became employed as a

translator by Agence France Presse

(French Press Agency).

He first came to the attention of French authorities

because of his relations with the "Chine Nouvelle" Agency

China Agency) of Paris and as a member of the Editorial

Committee of the monthly Chinese propaganda publication

Revolution •

The Director of this publication is JACQUES

Fourte

MANSOUR VERGES, a former French national who recently acquired

openins

Algerian citizenship and who is well known for his Communist

activities and for his

present work in favor of the pro

Chinese Communists.

T-1 advised

that it has received information

Ithat unidentified Americans, members of the American Communist

OParty, reportedly forwarded

to VERGES certain documents

established that GIBSON was working on behalf of the

Central Intelligence Agency. GIBSON, who had gained the

confidence of VERGES because of his work on behalf of the

"Fair Play for Cuba Committee", was dismissed from his

position as a member of the Editorial Committee of "Revolution".

T-1 furnished a statement which appeared in Issue 10-11

of

Exempt trom

"Revolution" of July-August, 1964, which is as follows:

"Following serious

certain comrades in New York, London, and Accra,

forusa tons received one

CONFIDENTALI

This document

contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

12.2394

GROUP

the FBI.

It is the property of

Classified M Sonne

CAT

Declassify 90s

DADR

n automatic

ind

10n

the FBI and is leaned to your agency;

it and ita contente are not to be

distribated outside your agency.

105-93072-114

ENCLOSURE

NH 50953 DocId: 32339275 Page 39

---

## Page 40

GUN BENTAL

"and confirmed by investigation, Revolution informs

its readers that Richard Gibson,

who abused his title

of former secretary of the 'Fair Play for Cuba Committee'

in order to attempt to penetrate the international

revolutionary movement, can no longer be counted among

the collaborators of the magazine.

The magazine cannot

accept responsibility for his activities."

Paris, leaving his family there, and stating that he planned

to go to England for

several days.

The apartment which he

occupied has been seized because of non-payment of 5 months!

rent..

GIBSON and

his wife are presently residing in care of

one ALFRED HENRI MARKUEFFRIES, 9 Basinghall Street, London .C. 2,

England,

-2

SONAIDENTAN

dope.opa.s

NW 50953

DooId: 32339275

Page

40

---

## Page 41

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

COAL DA

. UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIDENTIAD

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

December 8, 1964

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

12/23|94

Declassify one

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

T-I, a confidential source abroad, furnished the

following

information on December 7, 1964: (C

THOMAS RICHARD GIBSON, born May 132

1931,

Los Angeles, California, resided at 28 avenue Simon Bolivar,

Paris 19°

He originally entered France on December 15,

1954.

After following studies at the University of Paris,

he became employed as a translator by Agence France Presse

(French Press Agency).

He first came

the attention of French authorities

because of his relations with the "Chine Nouvelle" Agency

(New China Agency) of Paris and as a member of the Editorial

Committee of

the monthly chinese propaganda publication

"Revolution".

The Director of this publication is JAcQUEs

MANSOUR VERGES, a former French national who recently acquired

Algerian citizenship and who is well known for his Communist

activities and for his present work in favor of the pro-

Chinese Connunists:

I-l advised

that it has received information

that unidentified Americans, members of the American Communist

Party, reportedly

forwarded

to VERGES certain documents

which

established that GIBSON was working on behalf of the

Central Intelligence Agency. GIBSON, who had gained the

confidence of VERGES because of his work on behalf of the

"Fair Play for Cuba Committee", was dismissed fron his

position as a member of the Editorial Committee of

"Revolution".

T-l furnished a statement which appeared in Issue 10-11

of

"Revolution" of July-August, 1964, which is as follows

"Following serious accusations received from

certain comrades in. New York, London, and Accra,

CADE

Ecclanod

(JFK

Jowngrading

and

declassificatio

omatie

this decument contains neither

recosamendations nor conducions of

the FD?.

I: is the property of

the FDr and is loaned to your agencya

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

CONFIDENTIAO

de: 10. 10101

NH 50953 DocId: 32339275 Page 41

---

## Page 42

re

BONARDEN CALL:

"and confirmed by investigation, Revolution informs

its readers that Richard Gibson,

who abused his title

of former secretary of the 'Pair Play for Cuba Committee!

in order to attempt to penetrate the international

revolutionary movement, can no longer be counted among

the collaborators of the magazine.

The nagar

cannot

accept responsibility for his activitles."

T-1 advised that GIBSON departed his residence in

Paris, leaving bis fantly there, and stating that he planned

to go to England for several days.

The apartment which he

occupied has been seized because of non-payment of 5 months!

rent.

GIBSON and his wife are presently residing in care of

one ALFRED HENRI MARK JEFFRIES,

9 Basinghall Street, London E.C. 2,

England.

- 2

CONRBENTIAD

00140.1018-5

HH 50953

DooId: 32339275 Page

42

---

## Page 43

SECRET

fall faull

Liaison

E. H. Mossburg

1m Mr. Anderson

BY LIAISON

Dato:

313 040639 FED EXCEPT

To:

Fron:

Subject:

'Decenber 1, 1964

Director

Central

Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plane

John Edgar Hoover, Director

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

INTERNAL, SECURITY - CUBA

Sorres

Ko Rethi

Reference 13 nade

, to previous comunications

concerning the subject,

last of which was the report of

Special Agont Roger A

dated, January 31, 1964, at

New York, New York

A confidential

source tho has furnished réliable

intornation in the past recently advised that in August,

190%, John Heart Clarse, associate Editor of Treedonways"

magazine, contacted Julian hayfield of "The African Review,"

rost virace: Box: 2052, Accra; Ghana, West Merica.

"Treodonways," a self-described quarterly review of

the Negro freedon movement publishod by Freedomways Associates

Incorporated,

799 Broadway

New Yorl City, 1s a Communist Perty

sa supported pubiscatzon which is knows to your Agency:

RE 40 000:041

41/3

Juring this contact carts contenced that undoubtedly

Mayfield already knows that Richard bron has been exposed

as a Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) agent.

Clarke further

Indicated that Gibson was the one who pointed the finger at

bin and had the FBI breathing down his neck for over a year.

He also wondered where this.

situation put Dan Watts as Gibson

and Watts were very close

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

DeLoach

Casper -

Callahan

Conrod

Evans

Gole -

Rosen

Sullivar

1 = New York (105-42387)

2 = London

2: Paris

1 • 18591548191(re dont Route

3s0c12t00

Incorporated

105-96316 (Daniel Watts)

131904

-1 - 97-4575

(John Clarke)

NOTE FOR LEGATS, LONDON

AND PARIS PAGE TWO AND THREE

Tavel

CROUP

Trotter

Tele. RoomE

Exclude

relf Guß omatle

Holmes -

Gandy

O4 DEC8

M21106

19J1 TELETYPE UNIT I

downgnading

and

(10

declassification

SEE NOTE PAGE THREE

NH 50953

D001d: 32339275

Page 43

COPY FIL

---

## Page 44

SECRET

Director

Central Intolligence Agency

Your Agency has previouply boon furnished information

concerning Daniol Hatte,

Chalenan of the Liberation Conmittee

for Africa, an organization which has been described in news-

paper articles as being nation-wide and ained at helping African

freedom fighters and pronoting awareness of a common heritage

for Afro-Americans and Africans.

Literature for the Liberation

Committeo for Africa shows that

Richard Gibson previoualy was

Executive Secrotary of that organization. U

On October 29, 1064, Information was receivod from

out representative in farte, trance, indicating that your Paris

Office has no current intereat

in Gibson dnd has no plans to

establich contact with han(S

On November 6, 1984, our reprosentative in London,

an cuitorial Job

"Dict" reportodly spoke with an American

accent and had previously worked for "Revolucion," It appeara

that "Dict:" Gibeon is probably identical with the subject.

The above is boing furniebed for your information

and

any action deemed appropriato. Any additional information

recoived by your Agoncy concerning the whereabouts, and activities

of the subject would be approciated

NOTE FOR LEGAT, LONDON:

Gibson is a male Negro.

He was born in Los Angeles,

California,: 5-13-31.

He is 5'9"tall; weighs approximately

150 pounds, andi served in the U.S. Army from 12-52 to 12-54.

last known residence was in Paris, France, where he was employed as

an editor of the publication "Africa Latin America Asia Revolution."

abson is on the security Inder, Coint, based on his past pro

Castro: Cuban activities. He was one of the founders of the Fait

Play for Cuba Conmittee (FPCC), was president of the New York

Chapter and became Acting National Executive Secretary of the

FPC in 1961. He was forced to resign as Columbia Broadcasting

System newsman in 1960 for publicly expressing himself as

sympathetic to the Castro regime.

In 1961, he was also accredited

NOTE FOR LEGAT,' LONDON

CONTINUED PAGE THREE

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32339275 Page 44

---

## Page 45

SECRET

Director i

Central Intelligence Agency

NOTE FOR LEGAT, LONDON CONTINUED:

to the UN as

a correspondent for the Cuban newspaper

"'Revolucion."

In September,

1962, Gibson left the Us

and went to

Algeria where he remained until April, 1965.

In April of 1963, he went to switzerland and subsequently

moved to Parls, france. l

You should remain alert for any additional

concerning. Gibson and Teep Bureau and interested offices

advised. C

NOTE FOR LEGAT, PARIS:

Attempt to ascertain current whereabouts of Gibson

through your established sources and keep Bureau; Legat, London;(S

and other interested offices appropriately advised.&

NOTE:

Information concerning subject's alleged exposure

as a ClA agent is being furnished ClA

However, no information-

ts avallable in Bufiles indicating subject has actually been

utilized or exposed as a CIA agent.

CIA, however, has considered

utilization of subject in the past.

Legat, London, has also

requested information as to possible identity of "Dick" Gibson.

Classified "Secret" as information herein may

possibly relate to CIA activittes abroad, the unauthorized

disclosure of which could possibly compromise CIA's operations and be

detrimental to the internal security of the U.S.

(S)

SECRET

| NH 50953

DocId:32339275

Page 45

---

## Page 46

UDME

ENTALI

SAC, New Yoris (105-42387)

Director, FBI (105-93072)

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS

 CUBA

IS - CH

11/18/64

1

.. n: Glascock

* Ruebi

- Anderson

stat

Cards UTD

Cards Sent 00

"/2c/49

FO)

EXCEPT

LAXM

Reur DA 11/4/64. 4

A review of captioned matter reveals subject has

residod abroad since Septenber.

1502, during thich time he

has not reportedly been lovolved in any pro-Cuban activities.

He has,

been employed as the English language editor

O REVOLUTE Area and the ca Late Amere Assa

Revolutson,

* & publication which zeportedly is financed by

the Chinese Conninist Governent•

Subject has,

therefore,

been removed from the "Cuban Special Section" of the Security

Index (ST) and placed in tho General Soction tabbod & to

indicate both pro-Cuban and pro-chinese sympathies.

Amend

SI carde are being furnished to you under separate cover

(au)

In the future, reports summitted concerping

subject should utilize the dual charseter,

1S - CUBA,

IS - CHe

LiLA: ge1 gri

(6)

ion inde

12/23//K 8 MACIGAT

JFK

00

DECLASSIET

REC 20

105-2-172

1*112

NOV 23 1964

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

DeLoach

Casper

Callahan

• Conrad

Evans

Gale

"Rosen

Sullivan

Trotter NIA H

Tele. Room -

Holmes

Gandy -

MAILED H

1964

COMM-FBI

251964

MAIL ROOM

CONFROENTIAN

NN 70953

DocId: 32339275

Page 46

---

## Page 47

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106-03

**- MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

:

DIRECTOR, FBI

14(105%

TO

SECRET

DATE: November 6, 1964

OTHERWISE

SUBJECT:

"DICK" GIBSON

IS - CUBA

eECRET

poll

toot

Charte)

furnished

source:

On October 29,

the

1964,

CIA. London,

following information

from a highly

sensitive

October 9, 1964, at 10:55

stelephone numbers of

PABLo of the cuban Emb sadividuals,

A.M., subject called

London a

He asked for the

twiste

Subject received the numbers from

one PRucK of then told "PABLO" he was looking for a job on

Othe "editorial side" and would ask TYNAN for help.

"PABLO"

then told subject that he would have to tell TYNAN that

usubject worked for

telling half trutheS

"Revolucion", as it would be no good

This delicate

source stated that subject spoke

with an American accent and appeared to be on a first-name

basis with "PABLO .

While London realizes this is sketchy

Tinformation, It 15

possible that the Bureau might be able to

identify subject

and

Athis information.

if

Declassify on: OADR /0/3//

- Bureau

1

- Liaison

1 - London

Section (sent direct)

REFERRAL DOEUMENT

POI/PA # 250, 141

APPEAL #.

IVIL ACT• #

2.0. # 12351

DATE 10/31/84 INITIAZS VP

CWB: ec

(5)

DECRET

5000K

Classified by

empt from GOS, Category

APPRO

FIATE AGANCIES

AND FID

AD OFFICES

ADVISED

OUTING

SLIP (S

classification

DATE

11A06

43

105 2

93072-111

16 NOV 12 1964

BEDEC 8

1964

ZECHEL

SECRET

NATO

NH 50953 DocId: 32339275 Page 47

---

