# 124-90107-10131

## Page 1

124-90107-10131

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90107-10131

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-117222-99

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/15/1963

4

COMANDOS L.

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS : 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

• COMMENTS :

TT

v9.1

50953

DocId: 32333548

77

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Mr. Tols

Mr. Ei.Tü

Mr.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF #VESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUN 1 5 1963

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION 7O

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

TELETYPE

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEpT BRAcKETS iN IP 2

KP 11-14-97

Tavel

M•. Trotter

it .. Holmes

URGENT

6-15-53

7-52

PM

EST

ALE INFORMATIONSCONTAINEO

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIE

TO DIRECTOR, FBI.

/105-11 7222/

-EXCEPT

HERE SHOW!

FROM SAC, MIAMI / 105-70541

12-22-17

CLASSIFIED BY 568 SEDIT

COMANDOS L. IS-CUBA RA-CUBA•

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

Was all

CIA MIAMI DODAY ADVISED THAT ON SIX FOURTEEN SINITAREE, THEY

RECEIVED&INFORMATION THAT CAPTIONED ORGANIZATION IS RUMORED TO BE

PLANJING A RAID AGAINST THE NORTH COAST OF CUBA, SOMETIME BETWEEN

JUNE,& FOURTEEN AND JUNE, TWENTY, SIXTYTHREE. THE TARGET IS AT

THE

BOUNDARY LINE OF MATANZAS AND HAVANA PROVINCES. A

*(U)

CHIA

SOURCE IS

WITH INTIMATE KNOWLEDGE

OF

MARATIME ACTIVITIES IN FLORIDA. THIS SOURCE RECEIVED THE

INFORMATION FROM A PERSON WHO HAS CONTACT WITH CUBAN MILITARY AND

POLITICAL GROUPS IN MIAMI. CIA SAID THEY WILL NOTIFY U. SA CUSTOMS. &

ANTONIO PEREZ QUESADA, A FISHERMAN WHO IS IN COMANDEL ACTION GROUP,

WHO HAS BEEN COOPERATIVE IN THE PAST, AND HAS PARTICIPATED

IN RAIDS,

TODAY ADVISED THAT

HE KNOWS OF NOEX MERIATE PLANS FOR SUCH

A RAID

END PAGE ONE

THe: 10

3 nah ed

CONFIDE

CIEO-DIMECROS

JUN 19.190+

BL 2/00

6:7 JUN 21 1963

MR. BELMONT FOR TIS

• DIRECTOR

CLASS.

REASON -E

SECRE PATE

OF

• 1-2.4.21

NH 50953

DonTd: 32333548

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

CONFENTIAL

PAGE TWO

• MM SIX THREE NINE-S AND MM SIX THREE FIVE-S TODAY ADVISED COMANDOS

L ARE CONSIDERING DIFFÈRENT PLANS FOR AN OPERATION AGAINST CUBA BUT HAVE

NON SCHEDULED FOR IMMEDIATE FUTURE • INFORMANTS ARE IN

ALMOST DAILY CONTACT WITH COMANDOS L LEADERS.

MIAMI IS ALERTING OTHER INFORMANTS, MAINTAINING CONTACT WITH LOCAL

FEDERAL AGENCIES AND WILL KEEP BUREAU ADVISED.

END AND ACK PLS

8-59 PM OK FBI WA BH

TU BH DIS O

CC-MR. SULLIVAN

CONTILLXTIAL

SECRET

50953

DocId: 32333548

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FIST

SEGRET

SECRETEDRAL BUREAU OF SVESTIGATION

R S.'S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

CONFXSENTIAL

IVir.

JUN 1 5 1963

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

; Mr. 0V

RELEASE OF GIA INFORMATION

TELETYPE

12-29-97

IN THIS DOGUMENT. EXCEPT BRACKETS iN 1P2

CLASSIFIED BY 5448300/45R

KP 11-14-97

DECLASSIRY Cit fiss

URGENT

6-15-63

7-52

TO DIRECTOR, FBI.

/ 105- 1 1 7222/

FROM SAC, MIAMI / 105-70541

EST

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERZIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

OTHEZWISE

COMANDOS L. IS-CUBA RA-CUBA.

CIA MIAMI DODAY ADVISED THAT ON SIX FOURTEEN SIXTYTHREE, THEY

RECEIVED INFORMATION THAT CAPTIONED ORGANIZATIÓN IS RUMORED TO BE

PLANNING A RAID AGAINST THE NORTH COAST OF CUBA, SOMETIME BETWEEN

JUNE,

FOURTEEN AND JUNE, TWENTY, SIXTYTHREE. THE TARGET IS AT

THE BOUNDARY LINE OF MATANZAS AND HAVANA PROVINCES•

(1) 5

CIA SOURCE IS

FATH INTIMATE KNOWLEDGE

OF MARATIME ACTIVITIES IN FLORIDA: THIS SOURCE RECEIVED THE

INFORMATION FROM A PERSON WHO HAS CONTACT WITH CUBAN MILITARY AND

POLITICAL GROUPS IN MIAMI, CIA SAID THEY WILL NOTIFY U. S: CUSTOMS. AT

ANTONIO PEREZ QUESADA, A FISHERMAN WHO IS IN COMANDO L ACTION GROUP, !

MO HAS BEEN COOPERATIVE IN THE PAST, AND HAS PARTICIPATED IN RAIDS,

TODARL ADVISED: THAT HE KNOWS OF MO

Clnss/fed Bri

END PAGE ONE

SO MOATE PLANS FOR SECHA

RATN

Padresty, ems

M DINNER

5468-540/ MALA

91-83

95 1 585-117222-99

0-80

COSY TO SULLIVAN

CLASS.

REASON-POIM

By spr

Final En

30056863

COPY TO WANNALL

COPY TO NASCO

DATE OF BEVIEW

SECRET

SECRET

105-189232

NH 50953 DocId: 32333548 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRE

COMFXENTAL

PAGE. TWO

MY SIX THREE NINE-S AND MM SIX THREE FIVE-S TODAY ADVISED COMANDOS

LARE CONSIDERING DIFFERENT PLANS FOR AN OPERATION AGAINST CUBA BUT HAVE

NON SCHEDULED FOR IMMEDIATE FUTURE * INFORMANTS ARE

IN

ALMOST DAILY CONTACT WITH COMANDOS L LEADERS.

A((4)

MIAMI. IS ALERTING OTHER INFORMANTS, NAINTAINING CONTACT WITH LOCAL

FEDERAL. AGENCIES AND WILL KEEP BUREAU ADVISED.

END: AND ACK PLS

8=59 PM: OK FBI WA PH

TU. BH DIS ®

ORIG: MR. BELMONT FOR DIRECTOR

COMPOSITIAL

SECRE

NH 50953

DocId: 32333548 Page

---

