# 124-90146-10075

## Page 1

124-90146-10075

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90146-10075

HQ

105-93072-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

PAPICH

BRENNAN

DATE:

12/04/1962

'PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NH 50953

17

DocId: 32339243

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"AFRICA; LANDI ARICA; ASIA REVOLUTION"

SECRET

haports received irom a numberror sources make it clear

that "Africa,

Luiin America, Asia Revolution" has been in difriculties

for several montho wid it appears that the last issue was No. Il dated

March 1904.

The trouble began; apparently, then the French authorities

seizod copios of issue No. 7 of the French edition,

"Revolution", dated

March 1964 because of an article it contained on French overseas

territories.

Creditors becane alamiod, fearing that the publication

might be banned, and demanded settlenent of their debts which

wEre

then

estimated to exceed £10,000.

Jacquos VERGES, the publication's

Director, tried to effect ñamuttstretave con omies

with the situation but, according to VERGES, Richard FIRSON, the

Editor, argued

that the. Chinese should be asked to pay the debts.

Matters worsened when, again according to VORGES, GIBSON persuaded.

Lausanne printer to mite to Poking and ask the Chinese to scttle

publication's debt to him. VERGES regarded GIBSON's activities as

deliberately dismiptive and designed to produce proof of China's

support for the publication.

Also, VORGES complained that GIBSON was working for

Communist splinter aroups in Europe to the detriment of the

international Communist novement,

and that he was dealing tactlessly

with the magazine's agents and contributors.

The situation was such.

VERGES visited the j.k

in mid-july to disouss the position vith

BABU, a member of the

Bditorial Board.

BABU; who is now Minister of

State for Develoyment Planning of the United

Republic of Tanganyika

and Zanzibar, was in: London for the Commonwealth Prime Ministers'.

Conference.

In July 1954

there were minours that the Inglish edition

had gone bankrupt but these were denied by GIBSON who suggested that

the English and Fronon editiong should be made quite separate, and that

the former should be punlished in London. At about this time the split

between VERGES and GIBSON became complete and the latter was removed

from his position as Editor and from the Editorial Board, which issued

the following "waming";-

"Comrades from New York, London and Accra (Ghana)

have raised up grave changes against Richard GIBSON.

These charges have been confirmed and underlined by

Richard GIBSON's present disuptive activities.

Revolution's Editorial Board has decided to dismiss

Richard OT RSON

fron all his responsibilities and expell

him from the Editorial Board.

"From nor on, Richard GIBSON's activities con not.

in any way engage the responsibility of the review in

all ifs editions..

for the Editorial Board!:

A similar atalomont dos publiched in "Rovointion" No. 10-11 datod

July-August 1y64.

105

ENCLOSURE

NH 50953 DocId: 32339243 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

-2..

With dison out of the may lorens and Mis supporters

were hoping to resume publication of the Inglish edition.

GIBSON also

seemed determined to carry on and it has been reported that

as June 1964 he vas enquiring into the possibility of publishing an

Inglish version in the Netherlands.

The only other change of significance which has

occurred during 1964 has been the rosignation from the Editorial Board

ALAVI no objected to the publication's pro-Chinese attitude.

Issue N5. 11

I "Africa, Latin Anorisa.

Asia Revolution" shows that he

replaced by another Pakistani, the 73 year old Maulana Abaul Hamid

Khar BHASHANI.

BHASHANI, no lIves in Dast Pakistan, is the leader On

the National

Avani Party.

19-70 81,8 801; Фола модау пали

1886

Ist September 1964.

NH 50953 DocId: 32339213 Page 3

---

## Page 4

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90146-10075

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-93072-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

PAPICH

BRENNAN

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/04/1962

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

INH 50953

DocId: 32339243

Page 1

---

## Page 5

→ OPTONAL FORM NO. 1O

• UNITED STATES GOVERNIENT

Memorandum

TO

D. J. Brennan 1 R

SECRET

DATE:

December 4,

1962

Tolson

Belmont

Mohir•

Casper

Callahan

Conrad .

- DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

FROM

S. J. Papich,

'C."

Gandy -

SUBJECT:

RICHARD

GIBSON

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

The subject previously has come to our attention in

connection with our interest in the Fair Play For Cuba Committee.

On November 30, 1962, Jack Walled,

furnished the following Ipformation

• Хні

tral Intelligence Agency (CIA),

CIA is giving consideration

to possibly utilizing Gibson

on an intelligence mission inside Cuba.

will be given several general targets in the country.

utilization of Gibson will depend

we deen on the qua y

If he is cooperative, be

Future

of the intormation

which he brings back from Cuba.

any objection to the cla plan.

Sen enquires to Bureau hat

IC) 8/13198

ACTION:

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

This matter was discussed with the Nationalities

Intelligence Section and Walen is being intormed that we do no

ave any objection to the CIA plan Wallen is being requeste

to furnish the Bureau any pertinent

information developed through

1 - Mr. Wannall

- Mr. Dunn

Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich

ML INFORMATION CONTAINED

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

9405-93072

NOT RECORDED

870 DEC 1 1962

CIA NAS NEARESTUNDO

ENCHEN ANG/O

RELEAGE OF CIA INFORMA

EN THIS DOCUMENT. 5/24198

ASSANITIZED.

Clancided by

Exempt froi Gos

•Date of Doctastic

ENCLOSURE

3114/789

pedas

Liste

por

056

- 1963

CONR DENTIAL

SECRET

NH 50953

D001d: 32339243

Page 5

DRIC INAL

---

