# 124-90140-10049

## Page 1

124-90140-10049]

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/16/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90140-10049

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-3726-63

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

PAPICH

TO : LALLIER

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/09/1960

1

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

MANUEL ROJAS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32338092

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTONAL FORM NO.

UNITED STATES GOVE

MENT

Memorandum

Tolson

Mohr

• Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

DeLoach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan -

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASS.FOATION AND/OR

RELEASE UF CIA INFORMATION

: Mr. L'Allier

DATE: 12-9-60

THIS DOCUMENT. ENCEPT

BRACTS

KP174-97

s. J. Papion

SECRET

MANUEL

ROJAS

KA

JAMES BRADFORD STEWART

INTERVAL SECURITY - CUBA classied by

5480e

BOND DEFAULT -. FUGITIVE

Declassity eny ca

UN SE

Agent. on December 8, 1960, by l

**A

10

en

The following information was furpished

to

the

Liaison

(CLA

Dejentral Intelligence

Several days ago CIA developed information through

ALL INTORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEFT

WHERE SHORN OTHERWISE.

technical coverage of

the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City relating

to a telephonic conversation between a Cuban intelligence officialD

and an unidentified

who was offering his services to the

Cubans.

As a result er certain leads developed from this coverage,

CIA initiated

action in an effort to identify the caller. The

investigation disclosed that the person who called the Embassy was

the subject.

CIA in Mexico

then communicated with its Headquarters

and with the CIA representative in Miami in order to obtain background

information. CIA Headquarters previously had received reports from the

Bureau concerning subject.

CIA learned through its representative in

Miami on December 6,

1960,

that the subject was wanted and a summary

was cabled to CIA in Mexico.

According to

CIA in Miami had

learned about subject's fugitive status from the Border. Patrol of

Immigration and Naturalization Service

Stated that subject reportedly was conducting

intelligence activities in Mexico on behalf of the Castro government.

In his statements to the Cuban intelligence official at the time of

the telephone call subject implied that he had gained considerable

in can santa tat is ages stive precate directed'

stated that his Agency will appreciate

receiving from

he Bureau all pertinent information pertaining ko

subject's activities which we might develop from an

him.

Any data which subject might volunteer concerning his knowledge

LION:

Litto MM.

SJP: ban

(5)

baa

I-meronil. - Mr. Donahoe

13-16-400

- Mr. Eddy

1 - Liaison

The above informaLA ss being rected (164)

attention

e Nationalities Intelligence section and the Investigative

EX,100

REC 30

97-3226-112

LUDI

18 DEC: 22 1960

1 - Mr. Papicl

173226

RT 50953 DocId:32338092 Page 2

---

