# 124-10185-10098_8

## Page 1

124-10185-10098

SECRET

•(25) ESTABLISHHENT OF BURBAU LIAISON WITH

DUTCH INTERNAL SECURITY SERVICE/ - 1960

ments for liaison with appropriate butch authorities.

NAME

raised questions, pointing out that over

Again,

could cite this as an instance where

we failed to coordinate

in line with

National Security Council Directives.

In the latter part of 1959 we gave consideration to

establishing a Legal

Attache in Copenhagen, Dennark.

The

purpose of the assignment was to follow Bureau leads in

Denmark, Norway, Sweden, and Holland. We did not inform

•CIA of oui intentions.

(26) BUREAU DISSEMINATION OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE

INFORATION TO FOREIGN SERVICES - DATE

By letter dated

DATE

, CIA raised

questions concerning

the propriety of Bureau dissemination

,Of counterintelligence information to foreign intelligence

services. CIA, at that time, had particular reference to

Information which our Legal Attache had transmitted to the

FORENIntelligence Service concernin K6ß operations. CIA

took the position that pursuant to the coordinating

---

## Page 2

SESHET

Directive, the Bureau was obligated to coordinate with

CIA prior to such dissemination.

The particular data

had emanated from one of our sensitive ForEIGN sources

CODENAME Ne responded to CIA by stating that the

information was the product of an internal security

operation and

did not relate to any operational activity

abroad, CIA again surrendered. The Agency could argue

that we had

an

obligation' of"ccordinating with the Agency.

(27)

TITLE OF BOOK

AUTHOR

BOOK AUTHORED BY

In August,

1963, we received information indi

cating that

AUTHOR

in the process of gathering

material for a book pertaining to activities of U.S.

intelligence activities.

AUTHOR

contacted

the Bureau. It was recommended that liaison orally advise

CIA that

AUTHOR

preparing a book con-

cerning U.S. intelligence

agencies. The Director. noted

"I see no reason doing so."

It is not known if CIA was aware of the contact

with the Bureau. AUTHOR

subsequently published the

book which contained extremely derogatory information

concerning CIA.

(28) COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES - AFRICA

Sibili

• 18 .

---

## Page 3

SECRET

We told CIA we had no informants available

because they were necessary for our own operations.

We

took the position that me saw no benefit to be gained by

loaning an informant on a short or long term basis.

This

item is. being mentioned because Africa

has become vitally important to U.S. interest, bearing

In mind that böth the

Soviets and

• Chinese Communists have

made significant inroads into the aréa. CIA could argue

that we did not cooperate.

(29) ADVISING THE WHITE HOUSE REGARDING CRITICISM

OF INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS - EUROPE

By letter dated October 23, 1964, we furnished

the

White House information received

by our Legal Attache

from the

BOURGE

He was critical

of intelligence operations in Europe and made particular

reference to the overstaffing of personnel.

He do not know if. CIA became cognizant of the

existence of the Bureau letter bearing in mind that the

Agency undoubtedly would have considered the document as

relating to its operations.

We do knöw that for several years,

CIA personnel have been assigned to the White House and had

access to considerable information.

(30) THE PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY

BOARD AND JOHN MC CONE

In day, 1963, we became embroiled with CIA in a

rather critical conflict as a result of comnunication the

Bureau sent to the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory

Board.

The matter dealt with consideration that might be

given to increasing wire taps on diplomatic establishnents.

LUNC

on 19.

*:

---

