# 124-90138-10059

## Page 1

124-90138-10059

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90138-10059

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-66491-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

PAPICH

TO: LALLIER

TITLE:

DATE: 03/10/1961

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

ALBERT BURKE

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NH 50953

DooId: 32337790

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL fOF

-UNITED STATES GOVER

WENT

Memoranaum

Tolson

Faisons

Mont.

Belmont

Callahan

Conrad

SECREX

DeLoach .

Evans

TO

Malone

Mr. L'Allier

DATE: March 10, 1961

Hosen

Tavel -

FROM

S. J. Papic

FOR REVIE Y AT

COPES APARTE OUT NO S

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy

Fire A

SON DELIVERY

SUBJECT:

(ALBERT BURKE 5) TO HSCA ni

(SEE SUFILE

62-117290)

The captioned individual

United States professor

who in recent weeks has been presenting TV shows dealing with the

political situation in Cuba and more recently relating to the subject

of dynamics of communism. (s)He previously have been informed that

developed indicating that Burke possibly had been in contact with

ALL LSFOMINTIUN CONTAINDL

officials of the Communist Party United States of America. KIn the

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIBO

past BurkeChas handled certain assignments for CIA abroad

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

to visit Russia

over last the one current is interested an agen

On March 9, 1961, Mrs. Jane Roman, CIA, advised the

Da tre

Liaison Agent that Burke visited the Soviet Embassy on March 7,

OTHERWISE

han to make eif trip son the age visa bark still night gine

in a position to develop positive intelligence information during the

course of his travels

(JFK)

don

8803

08)

certain that Burkelkas fully aware of security conditions which

had to be adhered to on any business transpiring between Burke S)

D.

and CIA. Kuhn stated that he was preparing a memorandum for the

Ta au the ohinter hat Baka sande ey one oring to c

was of the opinion that Burke is sincerely endeavoring to cooperates

with the United States Government and no evidence was developed

DECLASSIFY

during the interview which would indicate that Burkel intentionally

was engaged in any subversive activity (s

ACTION:

8/31

The above information is being directed to the attention

QI the Espionage Section, Nationalities Intelligence Section and

A the Internal Security Section.

SJP: ban bran

"(6)

1

Mr.

Donahoe

REG. g0"

65-66491-

Baumgardner

1

Mr.

Mr. Branigan

Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich

3/20/61

NAEX-108

SECRETO

DECLASS/EGAL AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT ThE

BRACKE7S (AID KP 319-98

NN 50953 DooId: 32337790 Page 2

---

