124-10217-10400)

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/1/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10217-10400

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 109-12-228-2057

! Document Information

ORIGINATOR: = CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:

TITLE:

DATE: — 07/16/1973
PAGES: 5

SUBJECTS :
MDC, DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS, CUBA, VENEZUELA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: — 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 03/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

vol 4
NW 50953 Docld:32296624 Page 1



tf
vas
ce

“atelligence Information C”
WARNING NOTICE

BY IN 976393

SENSTHVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

STATE/INR NMCC/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCC NIC NSA TREAS SDO ONE CRS

EXO. DDI

PAGE 1 OF 5 PAGES

DIRECTORATE OF” : ;
: /) OPERATIONS :
q ified Recorded Reporting Officer, Exempt from General Declasification Schedule of E.0. 11652 Exemption Category 5B (1), (2). Impossible to Determine Dote
a Declassficetons
Cp

FOREIGN DISSEM

ic 1S AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

{ SECRET Sa

COUNTRY

Do! EARLY JULY 1973

SUBJECT

SHATUS OF NEGOTIATIONS FOR: RE-ESTABLISHMENT.
OFARELATIO

PETROLEUM TQ SyBA AND AL POSSTBL

merit raraini nea

ARRANGEMENT CONCERNING THE cUBa!
ee EE LE EE TEN IS ae
DEMOCRAT MOVEMENT

rea ae eR RT
I

$0 URCE

89° ee ‘oi

A BUSINESSMAN WITH A aS

CITE TDFIR -314/05985-73
ct

\S.BETWEEN..VENEZUELA.AND. CUBA WHI.CH
INC \Y DE _ANAQG RE EM.EN,T. £O.R_VENE ZUELA_T0. PROVIDE

2am

CONFIDENTIAL

Ett b. 2

BUSINESS, AND SOCIAL CONTACTS. HE 1% VERY

PROVIDE OIL 70 CUBA AS PART. OF THE AGREEMENT WHICH
WILL ESTABLISH“DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS BETWEEN THE TWO

SECRET

HRESTIAN
AL Fa FB ran ON CONTAINED 4 {

i
ACQ (46 JULY 197

ti

ECOLDED

OF P ye oie: OP”
na AOS]

TO TOP LEADERS OF THE SOCIAL CHRISTIAN (COPIE)

PARTY. HIS RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHEDS JUL 277 1973
HE RECEIVED THE INFORMATION FROM A TOP COPEL LEADER T
1. VENEZUELA IS. AGREEABLE-TO AND IS PLANNING TO

evi FBIHQ by
HSCA re. Vp rewseet.
(See Ret

BK
= Feng? ©

aa GID

¥

HW 50953 Docld:32296624

Page 2

sa eanny

au (Qi/2-xo —b 392


4073 9907 © o Ep tions.“

: J 35 FRITS oe ee a a

oe TDFIR -3141/05985-73- -
TORR --314/05985-73.

“WARN ING NOTICE

| SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED PAGE 2 OF 5-PAGES” - - : i

| SECRET. ~. no Foreien brssem

i< felassification) (dissem controls)
GOUNTRIES, ACCORDING TO.\W HIGH=RANKING OFRICTAL. OF
THE GOVERNING VENEZUGLANANOCIAL CHRISTIAN (COPEL) - Lev
; : . - |
PARTY WHO ALSO IS INTIMATELY INVOLVED IN THE. CURRRENT |
PARTY WHO TEMATELY LN : 7 _

a NEGOTIATIONS FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF SUCH REL NS;

okt st Mee
THIS OFFICIAL SAID IN EARLY JULY 497.3: THAT eGeTratrons
BETWEEN THE -TWO COUNTRIES NOW HAVE ADVANCED TO THE
STAGE WHERE JT Is APPROPRIATE .AND NECESSARY THAT THEY

BE CONDUCTED AT THE CHIEF OF S OVERNMENT LEVEL,

ACCORDINGLY, VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT RAFAELAC AL DER A
— ee

WILL STOP BRIEFLY IN CUBA ON HIS WAY BACK NROM ATTEND>
. CUBA 0 T

ING THE UNITED NATIONS GENERAL ASSEMBLY MEETING IN
NEW YORK IN SEPTEMBER TO PERSONALLY DISCUSS VENEZUELAN,

—

CUBAN RELATIONS WITH CUBAN PRIME MINISTER FIDEL a

CTDFLRDB-315/06639-73)
CASTRO RUZ. CFLELD SonmenTs[ivere75ah Fh THIS

SAME SOURCE AND A USUALLY RELIABLE SECURITY SERVICE

|
SOURCE, REPORTS GALDERA'S PLAN TO STOP IN CUBA.)
2. THE SHIPMENT OF. VENEZUELAN. OIL To. CUBA
WILL BE ONE OF THE PRINCIPAL TOPICS 10 BE DISCUSSED
BY THE TWO LEADERS. ALTHOUGH THIS OIL WILL BE FOR
CONSUMPTION IN CUBA, VENEZUELA WILL BE REIMBURSED FOR

6 SECRET G

Pe ey ete > - 7

HW 50953 DocId:32296624 Page 3


y

aa

aca 2007 epitions

WARNING Notice

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE ‘SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED » PAGE 3 OF. 5), PAGES. :

SECRET. no: roreren Dissem ny
felassification) =< __fdissém_controts) z

IT BY. A. THIRD COUNTRY, (SQURCE COMMENT: THE: OFFICIAL
DID NOT ipanrery THE THIRD COUNTRY.) (FIELD COMMENT?
Civ ever ait TDFIR® 31.4/ 04600 #73, 18. THE MOST RECENT®
REPORT ON SOVIET NEGOTIATIONS WITH VENEZUELA FOR
PURCHASE OF PETROLEUM FOR SHIPMENT TO CUBA, BASED
ON THIS AND PREVIOUS REPORTS» THE THIRD COUNTRY REFERRED
10 BY THE COPEL OF FICIAL 1 PROBABLY THE USSR.)
ALTHOUGH CUBA HAS LITTLE THAT COULD ADEQUATELY COMPENe
SATE VENEZUELA FOR. OIL, THE ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMERCIAL
RELATIONS BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES IS PLANNED PRIOR
TO THE ESTABLISHMENT OF DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS.

3, (FIELD COMMENT! A SOURCE WHO IS BELIEVED To
PROVIDE ACCURATE INFORMATION REPORTED IN EARLY JULY

2K

THAT HE HAD BEEN TOLD BY LU 0 V A Ro HEAD OF THE

SENATE COMMISSION ON MINES AND HYDROCARBONS, THAT
eee EE!

ONE OF PRESIDENT CALDERA'S OBJECTIVES IN MAKING THE Yen,
‘TECHNICAL STOP IN CUBA IS TO DISCUSS THE SALE OF

“VENEZUELAN PETROLEUM TO CUBA, HE SAID DISCUSSIONS ON

THE SALE HAVE BEEN HELD ALREADY.BUT THE VENEZUELAN
GOVERNMENT HAS DECIDED TO POSTPONE ANY ACTION ON THE
SECRET

4/05985~73 2

HW 50953 DocId:32296624 Page 4


IN' 976303,

WARN! ING NOTICE,

TDFIR™ 314 7/05985-/ ‘

© SECRET - 5: corcten DISSEM fe wes s :
(classification) {4tasem_controts) =

NEGoTTATIONS ‘UNTIL THE CALDERA STOP IN Cush TAKES PLACE,
THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT EXPECTS. THaT CASTRO WILL
RAISE THE SUBJECT DURING HIS. TALK WITH CALDERA AND
THE LATTER PLANS TO RESPOND POSITIVELY TQ THE CUBAN PROPOSITION
FOR SUCH A SALE, TOVAR SAID. COPE. Has. ARRANGED FOR THE MEETING
BETWEEN THE TWO LEADERS HITH CAMPAIGN. BENEFINS ‘FOR. THE DECEMBER
i PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION IN MIND, HE SAID GONZALONG ALR CT a:
Nest unuos AMLEN.E? VELA N AM BASS AD OR TO THE ORGANDZA

GF AMERICAN STATES, IS HANDLING THE ARRANGEMENTS: ON

“THE PERT OLEUM SALE.)

4+ ONE, POINT WHICH. HAS. NOT YET: BEEN: RESOLVED: :
IN CONNECTION WITH THE NEGOTIATIONS: Is THE STATUS OF
THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATS IN CUBA, AND THIS ALSO WILE
BE DISCUSSED BY. THE. Two LEADERS. IDEALLY, VENEZUELA
DESIRES THAT THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT LEGALIZE THE STATUS
OF THE. CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC: MOVEMENT IN “CUBA. BUT
VENEZUELA “IS. NOT-SANGUINE ABOUT THE PROSPECTS FOR
THIS, CALDERA THEREFORE. "1S PLANNING TO! ask CASTRO
THAT HIS GOVERNMENT RENOVE THE RESTRICTIONS IT HAS”
PLACED ON THE MOVEMENT AND ON THE ACTIVITIES oF CERTAIN

i SECRET ©
2 » _

SENSITIVE, INTELLIGENCE: SOURCES ‘AND METHODS INVOLVED PAGE: lke OFS PAGES:

HW 50953 DocId:32296624 Page 5



“Ep Fiona"

IN 976393.

. . TDFIR “314/05985- 73
i: WARNING ‘NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND etal INVOLVED aoe PAGE 5 OF 5. PAGES .

» SECRET no foreten issem PP an EE IN CRE tg Sats
H {Glasstteatton) (dissem controls) i rataiee : :

PROMINENT CUBAN CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATS, “SOME OF WHOM:
CURRENTLY ARE IMPRISONED IN CUBA, THE LIFTING OF SUCH
RESTRICTIONS WOULD INCLUDE PERMITTING THE DEPARTURE

OF THESE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATS FROM CUBA IF ANY OF THEM
$0 DESIRED, ANY AGREEMENT REACHED CONCERNING THESE

CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATS WILL NOT BE PUBLICLY REVEALED AS
THIS IS BEING NEGOTIATED AS A CONFIDENTIAL FAVOR
REQUESTED BY THE VENEZUELANS FROM THE CUBANS,
(FIELD COMMENT (livc~ 668d 7 FIRDB-312/02058-73 ,
FROM THE SOURCE OF THIS REPORT,» COVERS COPEL NEGOTIATIONS
WITH CUBA CONCERNING THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATS ,)

5. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY AT CARACAS.
REPORT GLASS SECRET/WARNING NOTICE@SENSITIVE INTELL GNECE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED/ NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER, EXEMPT FROM DECLASS=
FICATION SCHEDULE OF E.0, 14652 EXEMPTION GATEGORY 5B (2).
IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION«

SECRET

Ly = : : 7

HW 50953 DocId:32296624 Page 6
