124-90115-10030)

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

5/4/2015

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

COMMENTS :

|
|
|
| OPENING CRITERIA :

Agency Information

FBI
124-90115-10030

HQ

62-108665-79

Document Information
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
CIA
HQ

08/12/1974
2

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

08/07/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA.

MEMO

vod
BW 50953

Doclda:32340459 Page 1


o ( CNTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC:

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505 ae i
WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

12 AUG 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director

yn
Federal Bureau of Investigation bin
ATTENTION : Intelligence Division pe
y
SUBJECT : Mitchell ee Ill

>
« 1. Reference is made to TDFIRDB-315/07634-74,
x dated 10 August 1974, which reported on the growing
concern of the Bahamian Government about renewed
Ny secessionist activity in Abaco. In addition to the
e informatégn in pete renee
g fanich was the source of the above report,
: vided a representative of this Agency on 7
& August 1974 the following text of a memorandum 3
@y SS for the Secretary of the Bahamian Cabtnet: Es
f & "Please be advised that on 3 August es
kM? Zipemo7s, information has been received from hele
% yo ERS yur overseas contacts thateChester_
e c= SSS ZOCHOWSKI, alias ChesterMGARY, has recently
mm SSE een in touch with Mitchell L@yverBeLe, and
gy 2 Ze SN has reported that WERBEtE—ts—stitt~ptanning
Sy XS  Stunspecified revolutionary activity in Abaco.
gq NS 3 It is also reported that he has the support i d
= 2 of some former U.S. Government employees jt ies
y B: © and that he is tryjing to Resa a rmey, Ho? !
N83 GwwO Special Services eiger toopirado De
2222 tionary activity in Abaco (the na ‘of ° exe eee ee
Elia "
% 6 = Robert ARMSTRONG has been put forward as a
~ we eZ possibility). There is also a suggestion AUG 15 1974
k G that Robert VESCO might be financing some -

of the activity." fee ce

2. The "overseas contact" described above mala pot

nm Washington, D.C. | :

Td not 7 tify the "U.S. Government employees”

tomabove. —
tn gy Cr- 16F6ES

CLASSIFIED HBY-910116. EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION
SCHEDULE OF Ex EVN 2, EXEMPT LON CATEGORY 5B (2). IMPOSSIBLE
TO DETERMINE DATEAGE AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.

BE pug 221978

HW 50953 DocId:32340459 Page 2



. The files of this Agency reflect that Robert
ARMSTRONG and Chester ZOCHOWSKI are known to your
Bureau and their involvement in this matter has been

reported, ence to this Agency.
Although eported ZOCHOWSKI's
alias as ester >” it is believed that this

refers to "Chester GRAY."
4. The above information is being furnished to

your Bureau for whatever action and further dissemi-
nation you deem appropriate. The information, however,

may not be_discussed with anv foreian nationals,
including b)
FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS:

Praund 4 Bh

David H. Blee

CIRA-0444-74

{ esessbaseorpassonsessics

(airmen

HW 50953 DocId:32340459 Page 3
