# 124-90158-10059

## Page 1

124-90158-10059

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90158-10059

HQ

CR 109-12-228-1377

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE: 12/05/1969

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

LUIS POSADA

FORIEGN POLITICAL MATTERS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/30/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

19.1

IT 50953

DocId: 32340402

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION'

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

"SECRET

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-12-228)

CÍA HAS NO. OJECTION TO

DECLASSIRICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FOR

DATE: KP DEỄ - 9-98

BRACKETS

5 1969

Sp

FROM

SUBJECT:

JSÁC, MIAMI (105-1729) DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

JFK

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS -- VENEZUELA

INTERNAL SECURITY - VENEZUELA

(1)

#211,326

SOURCE

Classified by 4ied

Declassify on: OAbZ/28

Re Bureau letter

to Miami, 10/2/69 with

enclosures.

INFORMATION CONTAINE

2

EXCRET FINDS CHOI

OTHERWISE

Enclosed for Bureau are 9 copies of an

LHM setting forth results of investigation by Miami

regarding possible recruiting activities of

Venezuelan officials. No local dissemination is

being made.

The LHM is classified "Secret - No

Foreign Dissemination; Controlled Dissemination;

No Dissemination Abroad", since it includes information

from Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) so classified. E

*(и)

The sources are identified as follows

NOL RIDDO

Photo S

CC TO:

Second Source - MM

REQ. RECD

Third Source -Yuv 1115-sXC

МАК 11 ,976

Fourth Source -AM I154SXCL

Fifth source

ANS.

BY: ABo

1166

Sixth source - RICARDO MORALES,

key source - Cuba

BE: ORLANDO

GARCISeVenth source- LESLIE LLOYD ANDREAS

VAZQUEZ

518 E. 21st St., Hialeah,

stepson of ORLANDO GARCIA

VAZQUEZ (protect by request)

The following informants were contacted

negatively with regard to. this investigation.

Bureau (Enc 9) (RM):

REG 58

109-12-12813771

(1-64-36297) (ORLANDO GARCIA VAZQUEZ)

for to

ASCA-

2 - Miami

(1-64-12

JCB/£p

(5)

(54)(4)

LEA STato/RAO (ISO

BIG/051/ASCI / DEA

SERI

19,6

NW 509535060Id: 32340402 Page 2

(ORLANDO

-GARCIA

VAZQUEZ,

CIA.

. Re

kerence

YOUr TD -US DA31

04190-69

(by diaisor)

18 0EC & 1969

9-27-69

MARICAN

REVERSE

SIDATOR

SECRET

CLASNIFICATION

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

ACRION

---

## Page 3

SECRETI

MM 105-1729

MM 776-S

contacted October 15,

by SA PETER J. NERO

1969

Yo acres October 22, 1969

SA WILLIAM W. STEVENS

KuM (1382-S MC)

contacted November 7, 1969

SA VINCENT J. WARGER

MM 974-S

contacted October 23, 1969

SA WILLIAM MAYO DREW, JR.

AMM 1289-SV (C)

contacted

October 7, 1969

SA SAMUEL W. JONES

MM 635-S

contacted October 7, 1969

SA ROBERT JAMES DWYER

Key source, CARLOS ZARRAGA

contacted

October 7, 1969

SA ROBERT JAMES DWYER

PSI EDUARDO GALLARDO

contacted October 24, 1969

SA WILLIAM E. DOWLING

• A review of the Miami file regarding

ORLANDO GARCIA VAZQUEZ reveäls he was born in Cuba

in 1927 and served in the U.S. Army from 1945 to

1947, during which time he obtained U.s. citizenship.

He thereafter returned to Cuba and attended the

University of Havana under the G.I. Bill and

during this period was reportedly active in an

- 2-

(SECRET!

HH 50953

DocId:32340402

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

MM 105- 1729

anti-Communist group. He was a member of the Cuban

Secret Police under former President CARLOS PRIO

(1948-52) and later opposed the BATISTA regime in

Cuba and the TRUJILLO in the Dominican Republic.

He served with FIDEL CASTRO as civil attache at

the Cuban Embassy in Costa Rica until March, 1960

when he was discharged for his admitted "reactionary

attitude" and friendship with former Costa Rican

President JOSE FIGURES.

He subsequently moved

to venezuela obtaining Venezuelan citizenshiforeisn

1962 and has since served in the Venezuelan

Ministry and worked with the Venezuelan National

Police (DIGEPOL). He reportedly served as body

guard for former Presidents BETANCOURT and LEONI Of

Venezuela as

well as JOSE FIGUERES of Costa Rica.

A 1960 allegation that GARCIA was a

CASTRO agent in Miami was resolved

MAS OT

1965|

Ind there is no indication

at this time of a change of this status.

It is apparent from above that GARCIA is

highly placed in the Venezuelan Government and is

anti-Communist in ideology. He has long beer

_ Miami Feels

no additional investigation is necessary and is closing

its case on GARCIA.

It is noted the Miami Office is in contact

with LESLIE LLOYD ANDREWS, GARCIA's stepson who is

is under development as a PSI in Venezuelan matters

and may obtain information regarding GARCIA!sifuture

trips to Miami.

- 3 -

(SECRETI

NH 50953 DocId: 32340402 Page 4

---

