# 124-10190-10078_14

## Page 1

124-10190-10078

DI. Stephen FIscher-Galati

While I am cortain the Vice President would

Ilke to be of more assistance to you in this matter and

appreciates your conceru for your colleague, in the

absonce of information indicating Federal interest of

a Violation of federal statutes, this matter appears t0

be one solely within the irvestigative province of

authorities in your area.

Sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

Note:

Above letter written pursuant to referral from

the Office of the Vice President. Xerox copy of the original

referral and its enclosures being returned with the copy

of the letter to the Vice President.

Riha, Czechoslovak-born, naturalized, former pro-

fessor of Russian history at Colorado University, departed

from Denver area March, 1969, without notilying friends,

associates, or his estranged

wife. His disappearance has

been glamorized in recent months by energetic Denver reporter

and spiced up with • references to a mysterious paramour

under whose influence Riha had fallen.

Fischer-Galati, according to Buffles, was deferred

World War II for psychoneurosis, anxiety type.

He reportedly

advised State Department In 1950 he was a close friend of

the Director's, an untrue statement. He has been in periodic

routine contact in the past with the Romanian Embassy and

contacts at a lne meanite clonificanoe..

He was born in

Damania.

UFK

He communicated with Justice Department 4/7/69

concerning tha's disappearance.

Justice acknowledged his

letter.

Fischer-Galati has been mentioned in several press

Items

In the Riha case as an acquaintance and University

associate. He is a professor of history, Colorado University.

Salutation of Dr. taken from established reference book.

copy of letter being sent to The Vice President:

C BEING SENT DENVER OFFICE SEPHRAYEROy LiaiSon.

i 2.

---

