JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-90106-10152
: RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —105-117222-193
Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MI

TO: HQ

TITLE:
DATE: 02/17/1965
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
COMANDOS L
JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/03/1998.
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: —LHM

v9.1

HW 50953 DocId:32333296 Page 1


°

i la
1 aes aad
Uy TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF \/USTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Milwaukee, Wisconsin
- February 17, 1965

oo . del
RELEASE UF CIA INFORMATION. 4 - bane eds Cooke $4

i THIS DOCUMENT. £%8297 9 comanpos "ry"
. On February 15, 1965, MI T-1, another Government

Declassify
iy
kp 3419-9
nishea]a ch conducts intelligence investigations, fur- a) :

nishedja copy of a letter, dated December 7, 1964, at
Miami; Florida, from Oscar oe seta, Jr., Executive
Vice President, Tuya.Cuban Express, P, O. Box 48=5r, bs
nternational Airport, Miami, Florida, address me  %

Ros

1
We
iwaukee, Wisconsin. This. letter notes that the y
company to which it was addressed had for several years, )
favored Tuya Cuban Express with alr shipments to Cuba, N)
and that operations of Tuya Cuban Express were discontinued
in 1960, due to the communist take-over and the imprison-
ment of the writer and his father. The letter continues

that "Today, we are engaged in the struggle against

communism through 'Comandos L', and I come to ask for your
support", The letter asks for spiritual support and
financial aid, stating that a contribution would help >
provide "the solid financial backing needed to wage our

war against communism, tod firmly entrenched only 90

miles from your shores", )

MI T-1 also furnishedja copy of a form, which bI(Y
accompaniéd.above letter, to bé completed by contributors

and mailed with contributions to either the Tuya Cuban

Express, P. 0. Box 51, International Airport. Branch, Miami,
Florida 33148 or to Comandos "L", P. 0. Box 66, Riverside

: Station, Miami, Florida 33135...This form, states "We

Oe

CLASSIFIED BY 5662 5d,

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

wish to contribute the amount of. $ to help you :
continue your fight against the communist régime that
8 opresses Cuba and threatens the security of our continent.
yg ---." It also leaves space for contributors to note .~
® whether they desire to make a monthly contribution or a
single contribution, and to signify if they are interested
in being placed on a mailing list for more information about
-Comandos "L", It is noted at the bottom of this form that
"Tr" ss a non-profit organization

This document contains neither recommendations no’
is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents

eee a ae ae
HEREIN 1S UNCLASSIFIED fos —t . SECRET
BXCEPT WHERE SHOWN =~ ENCLOSURE :
Ui OSMERWISE lie es ce

HW 50953 DocId:32333296 Page 2

