124-10271-10074

JFK Assassination System. Date: 12/22/20
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10271-10071
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 62-116395-1250X
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: * FBI
FROM: BELMONT, A. H.
TO: TOLSON
TITLE:
DATE: 11/26/1963
PAGES: 46
SUBJECTS :
LHO, POST-RP, TRA, MX, ACT, ASSOC, RES, CONTACT WITH
. DURAN, SILVIA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 12/10/1997
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: INC 18 MEMO, LHM, REC, 2 ADMIN PAGE, LTR, CC LTR

vl
HW 52333 DocId:32198730 Page 1


+ crtionas f0N He 10 soro-104
BOSS gee te. 60, 27

an
UNITED STATES G&L RNMENT,

: Memorandum
TO Mr. A. H. Belmont
FROM WwW. C. Sullivan KP 4 Prete?
Dectassi
: B
SUBJECT ASSASSINATION GF PRESIDENT KENNEDY me Nig
SYNOPSIS eS Niter er oa

U i te
ee
co City, Mexico, information retcivéd froin’

=

sil be: olsay ado, Ugarte, Nicaraguan nationai
a 5 on 9/18/63 he sawjiee Harve Ti cpa
in Mexico City and witnessed payment of G65I97 to 0 A. Alv.
anong those also present when money passed to Oswald was Sylv iran, <i
can national ‘i onsilate. Alvarado further claisied he, Oi
occasions : Oy a to furnish above information to U. 5.
Embassy, Hexico City, put Enbassy switchboard did not put him in contact
with any U.S. representatives. Search of Exbassy switciboard records f.

° tion establisied

to disclose any stch calis were logged. Bureau invest
Oswald was in New Orleans from 9/17 until approximately 9/25/63 when
departed for fiexico, Oswald's presence in iexico from 9/26 until 10

verified. Mex Oe UL ON, 3

“ILS. _imbassador to Mexico, Thosas CANonn, through State Depart-
ment requested FBI assistance in directi instant investigation in Mexico.
Bureau Supervisor Laurence P. Keenan desisnated to. go to Mexico City to
assist and arrived 11/27/65, Mexican authorities interviewed’ Sylvia Duran
and are convinced she is telling truth when she states she recalied meeting
Oswald at Cuban Consulate on 9/37 and 9/28/65 and unsuccessfully endeavored
to assist him in obtaining Cuban and Russian visas. Mexican authorities
also convinced Duran not involved in any political activity in Cuban Con-

. sulate and confident her duties restricted to routine consular matters. /
On 11/20/65 authority obteined to release Alvarado to iexican authorities /
ation. Un 11/29/65 liexican authorities advised Alvarado's fe

for interro%
story "fascinating" and stated he was unable to pick out photo of Duran,
Later on 11/29/63, information received Alvarado admitted to Mexican
authorities his story.fabrication, designed to provoke U.S. into kicking
Castro out of Cuba. [CIA, Nexico] advised{Nicaraguan]source states approxi-
mately 29 to 25% of information previously furnished by Alvarado unreliable
and that he had reputation of considering himself more intelligent than his
control officer. /2 by

On 11/39/63 Ambassador Mann ‘advised since Alvarado's statements
fabrication, no longer necessary for Sj Keenan to remain in Mexico, Keenan
returned Washington, D.C.,12/1/63.. Information received that Alvarado now
clains his original statements true and that he recanted unger fear of

violence from jiexican Eueanaaeti ok . : -
Fp
{ ie eae :
“Mey pep Ze DEC 18 1953 fen

LPK:mls" (9) : ; 10s Pe
peaeee bh

i-iir. Belmont; 1-Mr, Sullivan; 1-Mr. Rosen; 1 f
l-iMr. D. E. Moore; 1-lir. Sizoo; 1-Mr. Branigan; F yo
i-Mr. Keenan; 1-Liaison Di

5H YdECZ4 199/| 8

69-395 - aD (4 amt)

HW 52333 DocId:32198730 Page 2


ira

Memo to Mr. Belmont
#: ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

witnessing the passing of $6500 to be true. This off icial advised
that Alvarado was being treated cordially and that he was either
telling the truth er was the world's best liar. This offic al advised
that Alvarado's interrogation. was continuing and that this interview
would now be conducted in a little stronger 1 manner, He furnished no
further elaboration on this statement but stated that Alvarado, who

is apparently familiar with the interior of the Cuban Consulate, was
unable to pick out a photograph of Sylvia Duran from a group of photos
of female individuals.

On the evening of 11/29/63, Legat, Mexico, received informa-
tion from a high-level Mexican official that Alvarado reportediy admitted
his story was a pure fabrication designed to provoke the U. S. into )
kicking Castro out of Cuba. Gn 11/20/66, Ghia cott, Chief, CIA Mexico
City, advised that he had received infornation[from Mexican’ authorities \
who were interviewing Alvaradg] that Alvarado had admitted that informa-
tion furnished by him regardifg Oswald's presence in the Cuban Embassy
on 9/18/ 63 and the information regarding a pay-off, to wald was a

pores mentioned rea: Scottf[advised that
fficial of the Vicaragualt Security Service]
who- is very Tanilia ‘Alvarado arrived in Mexico City on 11/29/63

and during the last “few hours of Aivarado's interrogation was in a room
adjoining that room in which Alvarado was being interviewed. As a
consequence, he was kept a he progress of Alvarado's inter-
view. According tofScott, ste ot ised that Aivarado in the
Past had furnished Hformat concerning Picerasiaa Comnist | Party
activities and fror 45% Of the information fdfnished by ‘Aivarado
was unreliable. lescribed Alvarado as a person who believed
himself to be mof€ inte igent, than his control officer. Bcotzstated
no information was available that the Mexican authorities had Used any

violence in securing an admission from Alvarado that his statements
were fabrication,

: Investigation by both Legat, Mexico, and[CIA, Mexic looking
towards identifying other witnesses allegedly’ present in the Cuban Con-
sulate at the tine Alvarado claims he saw Oswald receiving the above-
mentioned $6509, was unable to uncover the wh ane male who | possessed a
Canadian passport or the red-haired Cuban Negr it is noted Cuban
Vice Consul Azcue reportedly returned to Caben on 11/18/63, Mexican
authorities have been requested to assist in the possible identification
of the above-mentioned white male with Canadian passport and red-haired
Cuban Negro who aliegedly witnessed the pay-off to Oswald. However, it
\nitness that Alvarado's descriptions of those persons who reportedly

witnessed the pay-o are intentionally te, thus making it impossible
to identify or interrogate then and (éaving “Duran as the only logical
person available to.confirm or refute Alvarado's statements.

~§- SECRET

|
|

HW 52333 DocId:32198730 Page 3



a, SECRET a

Memo to Mr. Belmont : i
RE: ASSASSINATIGN GF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

On 11/30/63, Ambassador Mann advised that since it was de-
termined that Alvarado's statements were false, it was not necessary
for SA Keenan to remain away from ‘his duties in Washington, He ex-
pressed his sincere appreciation for the Bureau's cooperation and
assistance, and requested that his personal gratitude be conveyed to
the Director.

SA Keenan returned to Washington, D. C., on 12/1/63.

As of 11/30/63, Alvarado was being held by Mexican authorities
on. the charge that he illegally entered Mexico. Alvarado, in his
statement to Mexican authorities, advised that he had entered Mexico
without a Mexican visa and afte bribing a Mexican Immigration inspector.
Mexican authorities advised [CIA Mexico, that Alvarado would probably
be deported to Nicaragua in the near future.

Legat, Me: i by cable 12/2/63 advised that Alvarado
in his statement to blained that his original statements were
true and that he re er fear of vioience from the Mexican
authorities.

Wl eo

ADDENDUM BY W. C. SULLIVAN/LL - 12/3/63

Alvarado should be immediately subjected to a polygraph
examination. This is being’ handled.

HW 52333 DocId:32198730 Page 4

