124-90110-10072|

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90110-10072
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 105-114623-7
: Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM: CIA
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 04/09/1963
PAGES: 1
| SUBJECTS :
FRANC PECAR
JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION; Secret
RESYRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 08/06/1998

COMMENTS :

OPENING CRITERIA :

APPROVAL OF CIA

MEMO

v9.

13

| mW 50953 DocId:32334079 Page 1


ct ae ECRET nn, am
— _~ SEE | on
(sentRaL INTELLIGENCE AGEN%.,.,’
RECEIVED IN WASHINGTON 25, D. C. i
' APR1 2 1963
& LIAISON ~

e™

- 9 APR 1963.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director CIA HAS NO OBJECTIONTO~
Federal Bureau of Investi, HEICATION AND/OR, 7
Attention: Mr. S. J, Papi INFORMATION i

SUBJECT : ronan] wy ie pone AChE:

1. Reference is made to our memoranda CSCI-3/775, 509, dated
29 March 1963, CSCI-3/775,572, dated 2 April 1963, and CSCI-3/775, 622,
dated 4 April 1963, all with the subject as above.

2. Another office of this Agency has provided the following
additional information from Joseph MEROLA concerning Subject,

Subject arrived in Miami, Flori Florida, on } April and resided
with soser YMEROLA until 6 April 1963" when “when he was scheduled to return
to New York! subject planned to return to Miami for the period. of
12-19 April following which he would go to Vienna for a short visit,
returning to the United States about the end of April, Subject's

_ family will remain in the United States, :

b. According to MEROLA, Subject met Assistant Attorney General
William Kenny in Miami, but MEROLA had no further details on their con-
versation except that PECAR appeared most eager to make arrangements to
stay in the United States. Subject showed MBROLA and Kenny voluminous’

documentation. Y)
|
i
|

Sneael 6 early reply regarding information available to your
Bureau: concerning PECAR's activities in the United States would be
0 apprec

oe
Beare femmuliecl cr4 as wy fle fe3
FORTHE Di a DIRECTOR (PLANS) :

14493-L

We ms
| Kat copy yevieWat TSTRG by 4 APR | 1963
Y-/8-OF HePtises 2 2o-P {request
: (See Bufile #52-117290)! — £B7 “yah

Q9°8NS ——SepRET pa ae ie sale

Pp

hour Ts S
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declasslfication
oe a

I HW 50953 DocIld:32334079 Page 2
