# 124-90041-10041

## Page 1

124-90041-10041

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90041-10041

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-89923-15

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LALLIER

TO :

BELMONT

TITLE :

DATE: 05/18/1960

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

CLIP

JOSE RASCO BERMUDA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

y9.1

HH 50953

DooId: 32325959

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVI

MENT

Memorandum

TO

MR. A. H. BELMONT

FROM

-R 0. L'ALLIER

SUBJECT:

SECRET

DATE:

5-18-60

Tolson -

Mohr -

Parsons

se mon

Gllahar

De Loach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen -

*Surivan .

fe: Room -

Ingram

Gandy

Declassin

7211

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HBREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE

SHOWN

CRES addresses

sins green bord

The following information was furnished to the Liaison

Agent on 5-17-00 oy Messrs. Herman Horton,

and

concerning the captioned project which

deals with CIA activity directed against the Castro regime. b

The screening and selection of Cuban exiles for the

operation have been moving rapidly. The following Cubans now

make up the nucleus of the organization

moving against castro:

Justo CARILLO Hernandez; Antonio VARONA

Loredo; Pedro MARTINEZ Fraga;

Buesa; Ricard do LORIE

*Bals; Andres

ARGAS Comez;

Jose Ignacio, RASCO; Bernard Barker;

HiginioNDIAZune;

Enrique VITLARREAL de

la, concepcion;

Michel

YABUR, Justiz;

Manuel Federico GOUDIE, Monteverde; Joaquin

ANJENIS erdomo

and vanuel MarTLAPAN ypiartinez.

( и)

It is believed that all of these individuals are well

"known to us.

S(FRD.),

Revolutionary Democratic Front,®

The organization so far

does

not have a leader and for the time being will be administered

by a four-man diregtorate consisting of Carillo, Varona,

Arteine

and Rasco.

stated that the problem of sélecting and

Goon

promoting an acceptable leader is a sore

No one seems to stand out at the present time, although

time in the entire proieet.

commented that Artime looks like a good bet.

a th youty, entrustastic;

aggressive and

• have the

qualities to attract the support of all

the various exiled factions.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

EncLosur SECLASSIFICE TION AND/OR,

EX 104

REG- 26

SJP/nmn

Iyadsi89923-15

I IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEP

Parsons

K P15-11-

Mr. Belmont

Donahoe

J 5130-900

1608

4105 Sbu

• Nasca

Maisone

GLASSIFIED BY 5648 SLO/RESP

MAY 25 1960

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

SEE LEVERSE

JFK

_copies made SECRET

for review at FBIHQ by]

MAY 31 1960

Tr5=5602077(11)

NH 50953 DocId: 32325959

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SELKED

Memorandum for Mr. Belmont

does not expect that the announcement of the

FRD existence will be of any unusual nature.

Castro will give it little attention and regard it only as

another organization of exiles.

extent However

urgara It onty apates that

another grani zapigy in tent on prostie of that

The Liaison Agent was furnished a list of locations in

the Miami area now being utilied by CIA in this operation.

list is enclosed herewith.

Teague of the Miami office.

Liaison has previously reported that ClA would be

utilizing Swan Island located in the Gulf of Mexico for the

mounting of a radio broadcasting operation.

Broadcasts will, of

courseg

be directed against castro and will be beamed to cuba.

Broadcasts are to be initiated on or about 5-19-60.(0GR1u)

CIA is spending considerable time and effort to bring

certain anti-Castro Cubans outside of Cuba so that they can be

utilized in this operation. This is being done on a selective

basis in an effort to ubtain the services of certain key men beCau

You previously have been informed that a Cuban who is

held in high regard by CIA and apparently was to be utilized in

this operation was Colonel Ramon Barquin.

This individual is still

connected with the Castro Government and is assigned to an Embassy

abroad.

According to

•Barquin has not been able to make

a clean break with Castro decause of action which might be taken

against members of his family in Cuba. He now feels that he has

this matter under control and CIA thinks that he will officially

severe his connections with Castro within the next few weeks. He

could become a key figure in FRI.

The headquarters

of FRD will be reported as being in

Cuba and will exist in that country in a clandestine status.

Branches

will be established in various Latin American countries, and in the

United States.

Costa Rica undoubtedly will be a key location.

CIA does not plan to utilize a large number of Cubans for this

operation.

There pobably will not be more than 40 or 50 who will

have been briefed and trained by ClA. This group, however, will

be engaged in a program of training

outside of the U.S.

There is a plan to use a U.S. base in the Panama Canal zone for

some of this training.

100(11)

- 2=

SECRET

HH 50953 DooId: 32325959 Page 3

---

