# 124-10207-10451

## Page 1

124-10207-10451

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10207-10451

HQ

105-130061-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: PAPICH, S. J.

TO:

BRENNAN, D. J.

TITLE :

DATE: 04/28/1964

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS:

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

• RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NH 50953

DooId: 32291675

Page 1

---

## Page 2

AIL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNOLASSIFIED

EXCOVE WADRE SHOWN

OERERWISE

OPIUMAL FORA ND. 10

MAAT IPAS FRITION

3010-106

GSA GEN.

REG. 10. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SECREDI

TO

FROM

D. J. Brennan MY

S. J. Papichf

DATE: 4/28/64

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gole

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

SUBJECT:

VLADIMIR RODRIGUEZ LARERA

IS - CUBA

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE UP CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEpT BRACETS

RO/KSR

8-31-98 (JFK)

16

defected

LSubject is the Cuban intelligence officer who recently

in Canadase Austin horn

CIA, furnished the following to

the Liaison Agent On 7/27/64:65/u

A CIA representative travelled to Canada on 4/24/64 to

interview the subject.

This interview was subsequently conducted

in collaboration with

the RCMP Preliminary reports indicate that

subject's knowledge of Cuban intelligence activities is restricted

to Central and South America.

He has not furnished any information

concerning intelligence activity in the U. S

The Interviek has

been completed and CIA anticipates that subject should have consider-

able information

pertaining to the Cuban intelligence organization.

in Cuba.

As of 4/27/64 CIA was taking steps to arrange for subject

entry into the U.S.

If his entry is arranged through INS, CIA wil

continue with the interrogation in the Washington, D. C. area.(a)(u)

The Liaison Agent has requested that the Bureau be immediately

apprised of any information of interest to the Bureau.

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the attention of

the Nationalities Intelligence Section•

1 - Mr. Wannall

1

• Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich

SJP:m11

(4)

REC- 56

EX NOT

105-13000/10

180 MAY S

Bill

8& MAY& 1484

1/0/95

Classified by S668 SLD/GCL

I Deflassify Bhic PA: 32201673

Page 2

SECRED

---

