# 124-10275-10405

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2018

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10275-10405

RECORD SERIES: LA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 89-75-1168, 1169, 1170

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

SEE FBI 62-109060-7752

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/21/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC INTV, LHM, A/T

v9. l

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records ColTection Act of-1992

(44 USC 2107-

--

DECLASS

ON

DENT: L:5

Date of transcription-

4/8/77 AN05/

ATTY TNTOSVARTON COZCAIMED

TAGSEELSO EXCEPT

State

Police

Agent RENE GRANADOS accompanied

Special Agents ROBERT F.

ROGERS and HENRY D. TENORIO to the Municipal

Jail in Ensenada, Baja California, Mexico,

whereby

RICHARD SIDNEY

WATSON was made available for interview.

WATSON was brought to the Director's Office at the jail and

there he was made aware of the identities of the interviewing Agents,

Special Agents ROGERS and TENORIO.

Prior to any questioning,

WATSON

"Interrogation; Advice of Rights" which he stated he understoog

signed. He then furnished the following information:

He advised that the information concerning RUBY and OSWALD

pertaining to an alleged hotel receipt was information that he had

read from the National Enquirer magazine. He stated that as far as he

• T2

could recall the article,

OSWATD and RUBY supposedly met in a motel

outside New Orleans, Louisiana,

the issue of the magazine.r

He stated that while in jail in Ensenada, he had seen a film

clip of a 35mm print.

The print was subsequently burned, but later a

fellow prisoner showed him a photograph of this film clip.

The photo-

graph showed four individuals, OSWALD, CHE GUEVARA, a SYLVIA PENAL,

(wife.of

KGB Agent VALERA KOSTANOE, phonetic), and another

individual who appeared to him to be PHILIP AGEE, former CIAAgent.

& DXT.

CLASS

REASON - FCIM 11

DATE CI REVIE

He stated that this photograph appeared to have been taken at the

Hacienda Campence, Cuidad de Carmen, Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico. C

WATSON also stated that he had furnished all of this

information to Admiral TURNER STANFORD, Director, CIA, Western Hemis-

who is a personal friend of his

father and that he had also

made this information available to Assistant Director in Charge

RICHARD GEBHARDI, LOS Angeles FBI, LOs Angeles, California.

He said

that he had contacted GEBHARDT on November 3, 1976, under the Freedom

of Information and Privacy Act, regarding information that the FBI

might have in their files concerning him.

However, he stated he had

not received any mail and felt

though

his mail was being inter-

cepted at the Ensenada jail. (*/UK(Ul)

WATSON also advised that he had made all of this information

available to GEORGE

Staff Writer, Santa Ana Register, Mission

Viejo, California.

interviewed on _4/6/77

SA

ROBERT F. ROGERS and

SA HENRY D. TENORIO/cwf: pgh

This document contains neitt

_o Ensenada, B.C.., Mexico

_File #

SD 62-1529

4/8/77

I leis the proporty of the fad and is iooned to your agency:

ENCLOSURE 67-1 09060-7752

н)

DocId: 32145970

Page 2

---

## Page 3

• ReTeased under the wom T. Kennedy

Hotel scaREDAT 2370, -14-2017

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

980

ADR

Classified

Declassi

17

FrIM

CLASS

REASON

FERRAL BUREASE NESTISARON

ERASSIFIEDBY

9803€

TURED IS TECLAESCETUD SACEPT

9=4•93

NUERB SZONN ODHERWISE..

CONT

VIAL

Date of transcription.

State Judicial Polico

Agent REVE

GRAnADOS accompanied

Special Agents ROBERT P. ROGERS and HENIS D.

TENORIO to the Municipal

Jail in Ensenada, Baja Califamia, Mexico,

NASSON was nade avallable for intervieu.

CARD SIDNEY

WASSON vas brought to the Director's Office at the jail and

there ho was made avare of the identities of the interviewing Agents,

Special Agents ROGERS and TIZORIO.

tIlot to any questioning, WarsoN

was advised of his rights and turmiahed an interviow form entitled,

"Interzogation) Advica of Rights" which he stated he understood ago

aigned.

He then furnished the following information:

He advised that the information concorning HUBY and OSWALD

pertaining to an alleged hotel receipt was inforation that he had

read fron the national Incuirer magazine.

He stated that as far as ho

could recall the article, OStATO and Ruby supposedly not in a motel

outside New Orleans, Loulsiana,

could not recall the date oi

the lasue of the magazins.

- Ee stated that unife in jail in Ensenada, he had seen a film

clip of a 35mm print.

The print was subsaguently burned, but later a

folloy prisoner showed hin a photograph of this fila clip.

the photo

graph showad four individuals,

OSHAED, CHE GUEVARA, a SYIVIA FEMAL

(nife 09 a EGB Agant VALERA ROSTANOE, phonetic), and another

individual who appeared to him to be PIItID ACrE, fOrmer CIlAgent.

ile stated that this photogragh appeared to have bean taken at the

Hacionãa Campence, Cuidad de Carmen, Yucatan Peninsula, Mariço.

MASON also ctated that he had furnished all of this

information, to Admiral TURNER STANYORD, Director, CIA, Western Lenis-

phere, who is a porsonal friend of his

father and that he had also

made this information available to Assistant Director in Charge.

NRICHARD GESHANDT, LOS Angeles PBI, los Angeles, California.

He said

that he had contacted GEDUARDT on November 3, 1976, under, the Freedos

Nof Infornation and Privacy Act, rogarding information that the Fel

fright have in thoir files concerning his.

Hoever, he stated ho had

not received any nail and felt as though his nail was being inter-

ceptod at the Ensenada Jail.

WATSON

olso advised that he had mado all of this information

available to GEORGE GRAY,

Viajo, Califorala.

staff meters

Santa ana Regiater, Mission

Pause by yarry:

File #

Interviewed on_

476/77

_at_

Ensonada,

B.C... Nexico

BD 62-1929

by.

ROGERS and

_Date dictated..

SA HISDEX D.

4/8/77

This document contains neither recommendorions nor conclusions of the Fel. I is the property of the fBI and is looned to yourusnerati

it and its contents are not

CONN

PRICIA JEA

DocId: 32145970

Page 3

---

