124-10370-10016)

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

4/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10370-10016
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-G6
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: DL
TITLE:
DATE: 06/25/1976
‘PAGES: 350
SUBJECTS :
HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, ASSASSINATION
MATTERS VOLUME VI
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 1C;4 e
CURRENT STATUS: _ Redact 7 is
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 03/11/1999 :
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA .
COMMENTS : INC FOLDER, NEWS RELEASE, NEWS ARTICLE, MEMO, TTY, LAB RPT, LAT RPT, A/T,

LHM, LET, R/S, S/S, FD-302, EXHIBIT, ADDENDUM, PRESS RELEASE, INSERT, NOTE

v9.1

HW 50953 DocId:32319451 Page 1


SECREG

Mr, T, W, Leavitt

R.
D.
~ Mr, Fo

--Mr, T.
8, 5, Hignosa ~ Mr. J. W. Redfield
: » Mr, S, 8, Mignosa

: =z
i 1 = Mr. R. D, Hampton ~ AX
ILONA MARITA LORENZ, AKA 2 |

INTERNAL SECURITY = CUBA

1
1
Ler, J.
1
i
1

PURPOSE:

The purpose of this memorandum is to advise ,you of
information in FBI files concerning the subject, who according
to recent newspaper articles (copi.s attached), publicly |
admitted to being involved in a CIA plot in 1960 to . |
assassinate Cuban Premier Fidel Castro. The newspaper articles zac
indicated that she was interviewed during that period by the FBI. |

SYNOPSIS: :
The subject, according to recent newspaper accounts,
was alleged to have been involved in a 1960 CIA plot to
assassinate Cuban Premier Fidel Castro, According to the |
_hewspaper accounts she was in contact with Alex Rorke allegedly
a CiA and FBI employee and a Frank Fiorini allegedly a CIA
employee, During contact with the New York Office in 1959 and
1960, the subject admitted being the lover of Castro and having
an abortion as a result. She never advised the FBI of alleged
involvement in the above plot nor was she ever ‘directed to
perform any tasks on behalf of the FBI,

The subject's husband is a New York informative asset
in the SoViet bloc field./$)The subject, who is separated from
her husband was briefly“GHder development as a criminal informant
from April to June 14, 1976; the case is closed,

Enclosures = 3

RDH; jmr ; :
(9) : | CONTINUED ~ OVER

: = are nies
: ; : : REASON oe fea
| 5 yea |

DECLASSIEY
(sus coket

HW 50953 DocId:32319451 Page -2


SECREA

Memorandum to Mr. T. W. Leavitt
Re: Ilona Marita Lorenz

The attached newspaper stories alleged that "Alex
Rorke, a wealthy adventurer who worked for both CIA and the
FBI" was involved with Frank Fiorini, a "CIA Agent;' who recruited
the subject in an assassination plot against Castro.
Alexander I, Rorke is a former FBI clerical employee who, during
‘the time of the alleged plot in 1960, was a free lance
photographer. He had been temporarily detained by the Cuban
Government in 1959 and for many years was active in anti-Castro
activities in the Florida area. From time to time he contacted
the FBI and was dealt with at arms length because of his
adventurer, personality and self-serving motives. He disappeared
on a plane flight in 1963 to Central America. Frank Fiorini
also known as Frank Anthony Sturgis was well known to the FBI
for his anti-Castro activities in the U. S. following his~
defection from Cuba in 1958. He was also one of the Watergate
break-in subjects.

Additional information in FBI files indicates that the
subject also furnished information concerning the July 26th
Movement in the U. S. This group was the original political and
military organization which Castro used to overthrow the Batista
Regime in Cuba. The subject was also interviewed in 1962 in
Florida regarding “a. White Slavery Traffic Act (WSTA) case and
admitted being the mistress of Marcos Perez Jimenez, former
President of Venezuela, who fathered her daughter. Investigation
failed to establish the subject was a victim in the above mentioned
WSTA case. The subject{is the present wife of NY 7511-IA who
furnishes information on Soviet and Soviet-bloc matters. She

-, ‘is aware of her husband$ cooperation with the New York Office and ]§)

has, on occasion, volunteered information of value. The subject

is presently separated from-her husband and in April, 1976, the
| _ New York Office opened a potential criminal informant file on her
because of her contacts with a New York ‘area crime figure
Guiseppe Faggiano, and a race horse trainer, She furnished
information regarding gambling, shylocking and bank robbery matters.
However, because of the recent publicity set out in the attached
newspaper clippings, the fact that she is planning to write a book
concerning her Cuban experiences and the fact that she terminated
her contact with criminal elements,her case was Closed by the
New York Office. a

ge

SECRAI

ln 50953 Doclda:32319451 Page 3


UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE S&sLaneva,

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to ‘ Denver, Colorado
File’ No. January 28, 1976

TION TO
ANDIOR,
ae Rua
ee IN THs DOCUMENT.
RICHARD N. ELY As Séim760 de

On January 16, 1976, the captioned individual tele-
phonically contacted the Denver Office of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation and spoke with Assistant Special Agent in
Charge Simon Tullai. He referred to a letter dated January 13,
1976, from the Director of the FBI, Clarence M. Kelley, which
herreceived concerning Mr. Ely's Privacy Act request. Mr.

Ely appreciated the response of the FBI, but felt he was now
under surveillance by either the FBI or the CIA. He requested
a personal interview.

On January 22, 1976, Richard N. Ely | was interviewed
in the Denver Office of the FBI by Special Agent Dale A. Berndt.
Mr. Ely advised he is investment advisor to D. H. Baldwin
Company, Colorado National Bank Building, Denver, Colorado
(Lucian Wilson, President). Mr. Ely lives in Lakewood, Colo-
rado, and maintains an office at Brooks Towers, Suite 37-K,
Denver, Colorado. He stated he is married and lives with his
wife. gts erate lett :

Mr. Ely ‘wished to explain his concern over being
surveilled and felt it was thework of the CIA. When asked
what would prompt such surveillance, he stated that previously
he had been self-employed in an auto safety device firm.
Having had difficulties with patent infringements on his
devices in Europe, he had occasion to travel to Sweden and
Switzerland. During 1961, Ely was in Sweden and as he was
having marital difficulties with his first wife, entered into
an affair with a Swedish citizen, Helena Johnson. Miss Johnson
was an agent for various art firms. At one point in their
affair, Johnson urged Ely to purchase a moose hunting license
and a Swedish war surplus rifle fitted with a Zeiss scope so
that he could bag a moose and sell it for about $700. Sensing
something was amiss, Ely returned the rifle to Johnson and
discontinued their liaison. While going with Miss Johnson he
learned she was a member of the Baltic League, a violently
anti-Russian organization. After their split, he learned she
was also a ‘member of the Swedish intelligence services. He,

‘6 :. therefore, suspected he was being set up as a "patsy" for an
outlon : an ye THiS docunent contains netther*®.
‘ ry oo d ‘ n$-nor esnelusions: of
$ z : _

Pre.sor®

NW 50953 DocId:32319451 Page 4


RICHARD N. ELY

assassination attempt which would have taken place in Sweden
when Promier Khrushchev came there to speak to the Swedish
Reichstag, subsequent to the death of United Nations Secretary
- General Dag Hammorskjold.

Additionally, Ely claimed to know the identity of
aman described in a recent book relating to the assassination
of President Kennedy, who was supposed to be a hired killer
for the CIA named "Saul." When Ely's Privacy Act requests of
the CIA failad to produce information to him, he sent a letter
to the CIA, United States Department of State, Department of
State Consular Service, and the Church Committce which indi-
cated he would toll all he knew of the CIAwmless they revealed
to him all they have on record concerning him. This letter
seemed to result in the surveillances he suspects are. directed
at him, and as a result he has consulted various lawyers, police
offieials, and his employers for aid in determining what will
stop the suspected survoillances. He indicated his offieco has
been broken into and his mail has been tampered with. te

Mr, Ely requested the Denver Division of the FBI
get in contact with the local office of the CIA to notify them
that he is willing to say nothing about the CIA to anyone if
they will cease their interests in him. He mentioned he had
vocoived: a personal letter from Senator Church of the Church
Conmittee assuring him his case would be heard subsequent to
the Committee's termination on February 21, 1976. Mr. Ely
advised he would furnish nothing to the Church Committee now
unless obliged to by it.

During the interview, Mr. Ely appeared calm, articulate,
educated, and sober. He indicated his IQ was in excess of 160
and he had graduated from three different colleges. He was well
dressed and business-like.

January 23, 1976, Special Agent in Charge
advised his office has no
vecord idontifiable with Mr. Ely. )

hese betasety
“we

|. 50953 Doclda:32319451 Page 5
