# 124-10291-10023

## Page 1

124-10291-10023

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10291-10023

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-112738-1201

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/03/1978

PAGES: 23

SUBJECT:

OBA, SITUATION RPT, VENEZUELA, TERRORISM, CUBAN EXILES, CARTER;

JIMMY, VISIT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

07/08/1998

UPDATE DATE:

STATUS

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NH 50953

DocId: 32306883

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PAGE 5. RUEAIIA 9328

NO FNRN

WNINTEL

1978 VISIT OF PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER. ALTHOUGH THERE IS

SECRET

A TENDENCY TO BLAME THE UNITED STATES FOR VENEZUELA'S CURRENT

FINANCIAL PROBLEMS, IT IS DOUBTFUL THAT DEMONSTRATIONS WHICH

MIGHT TAKE PLACE WOULD BE AIMED AT PRESIDENI CARTER, BUT

RATHER THEY WOULD BE STAGED DURING THE PRESIDENT'S VISIT

TO EITHER EMBARRASS THE CURRENT VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT OR TO

FURTHER DRAMATIZE THE CAUSE BEING ADVOCATED. (SOURCE : A

STAFF OFFICER OF THIS AGENCY. ›

3. THE VENEZUELAN SECURITY SERVICES RECOGNIZE THIS

SITUATION AND EXPECT THAT THERE WILL

BE UNPLEASANT, ANTI-

VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT INCIDENTS DURING PRESIDENT CARTER'S

CARACAS VISIT. VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES BELIEVE THESE INCIDENTS

WILL DEAL WITH CHARGES OF HUMAN RIGHIS VIOLATIONS AND GOVERNMENT

CORRUPTION. THE SECURITY FORCES WILL BE ABLE TO CONTROL ANY

SITUATION THAI ARISES, THE AUTKORITIES BELIEVE. (SOURCE:

1(5)

I. THE VENEZUELAN LEFTIST GROUPS

(5)

SECRE!

30953

DocId: 32306883

Page 2

---

## Page 3

'PAGE 2 RUEAIIA 9321

& NOFNAN WNINIEN

POLISH DIPLOMAIS•

(SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WITH CONTACTS

#MONGESTURITY DEFICTALJIND GLOSE REFORTING LE GENERALLYS DECKER

RELIABLE.)

5• VENEZUELAN EXTREME LEFTIST GROUPS INCLUDE THE BANDERA

ROJA (ER); THE BANDERA ROJA-MARXISI /LENINIST (BR/MLLN ALSO

KNOWN AS THE ANTONIO JOSE DE SCURE GUERRILLA FRONT: THE

ARMED FORCES OF NATIONAL LIBERATION (FALNS, AND THE ORGANIZATION

OF REVOLUTIONARIES (OR). THESE GROUPS HAVE BEEN OPERATING IN

THE EASTERN VENEZUELAN STATES, PARTICULARLY MONAGAS, ANZOATEGUI,

SUCRE AND BOLIVAR. THEY HAVE CARRIED OUT NUMEROUS

RAIDS ON MILITARY POSTS, HAVE TAKEN OVER SMALL TOWNS FOR A LIMITED

PERIOD OF TIME DURING WHICH THEY LECTURED THE TOWNS PEOPLE ON

ANTI-GOVERNMENI POLITICAL THEMES, AND IN GENERAL HAVE HARRASSED

AND EMBARRASSED THE GOVERNMENT FOR SEVERAL MONTHS. (SOURCE:

WHOSE REPORTING IS GENERALLY RELIABLE.) (S

6. DESPITE A LARGE-SCALE VENEZUELAN MILITARY COMMITMENT

IN THE EASTERN STATES, THE GUERRILLAS REMAIN

SECRET

J0953

DocId: 32306883

Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAGE 3 RUEAIIA 9329

NOFNRN WNINTEL

VIRTUALLY UNTOUCHE

THEY MOVE ABOUT: THE TOUNSAND CITIES OF

THE AREA RELATIVELY FREELY AND GENERALLY ENJOY THE SUPPORT SECRET

OF THE LOCAL CITIZENS. FOR THE MOST PART, THEY ARE NATIVES OF

THE AREA, OR THROUGH THE YEARS HAVE SPENT A GOOD DEAL OF TIME

THERE, HAVE MUCH IN COMMON WITH THE LOCAL PEOPLE, AND, IN SHORT,

ARE MORE FRIENDLY AND THUS MORE WELCOME THAN THE GOVERNMENT

SECURITY AND MILITARY PEOPLE. ESTIMATES OF THEIR STRENGTH

RANGE FROM 50 TO 150 INDIVIDUALS. (SOURCE:

WHOSE (S)

REPORTING IS GENERALLY RELIABLE.)

7. THE GOVERNMENT'S OWN HEAVY HANDED METHODS IN DEALING

WITH THE LOCAL POPULATION, HAVE, IN TURN, HARMED THE GOVERN-

MENT'S IMAGE IN THE AREA FAR MORE IHAN THE GUERRILLAS COULD

HAVE HOPED TO DO WITH THEIR OPERATIONS. ALTHOUGH THE GOVERNMENT

PUBLICLY CLAIMS TO HAVE CAPTURED SEVERAL GUERRILLA LEADERS

RECENTLY, THE PRISONERS ARE ILLITEPATE FARM WORKERS WHO CLEARLY

ARE NOT TRAINED GUERRILLA FIGHTERS. THOSE WHO FEEL THAT THEY HAVE

BEEN VICTIMIZED BY THE SECURITY

FORCES, TURN AWAY FROM THE

GOVERNMENT AND TOWARD THE GUERRILLAS. MANY OF THOSE WHO ARE NOT

30953

DocId: 32306883

Page 1

---

## Page 5

PAGE 4 RUEAIIA 9329

* NOFNRN WNINTEL

DIRECTLY AFFECTED ALSO LOSE RESPECT FOR THEIR GOVERNMENT WHICH, WHILE

MISTREATING THE CITIZENRY, FAILS TO ERADICATE THE GUERRILLAS. SECRET

INVESTIGATIONS INTO THE GOVERNMENT'S ANTI-GUERRILLA ACTIVITIES

IN THE AREA ARE CURRENTLY UNDERWAY• (SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN

PROFESSIONAL MAN WITH GOOD CONTACIS IN SECURITY AND JUDICIAL (S

CIRCLES AND WHOSE REPORTING IS GENERALLY RELIABLE.)

S. DURING THE PAST TWO TO THREE MONTHS THE GUERRILLAS HAVE BEEN

RELATIVELY INACIIVE. VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES HADBELIEVED THAT

AFTER SPENDING AN ENJOYABLE HOLIDAY SEASON, THE GUERRILLAS WOULD

RESUME THEIR CAMPAIGN IN FEBRUARY. THIS MAS NOT MATERIALIZED

AND SECURITY OFFICIALS ARE NOW ATTEMPTING TO DISCOVER WHETHER

THE GUERRILLAS HAVE TAKEN COVER AS A RESULT OF THE GOVERNMENT'S

EFFORIS IN THE EASTERN STATES OR ARE REGROUPING AND PLANNING

TO RENEW THEIR ACIIVITIES SOON. (SOURCE:

J(s)

9. IN LATE FEBRUARY, HOWEVER, VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS

RECEIVED INFORMATION THAT BR LEADER GABRIE

PUERTA

NAPONTE ANE SEVERAL CHER GUERRILLA LEADERS VENE IN CARACAS.

SECREI

J0953

DocId: 32306883

Page 5

---

## Page 6

PAGE 5. RUEAIIA 9329

SNOFNEN WNINTEL

PUERTA AND THE OTHERS

ARE BELIEVED TO BE IN CONTACT WITH

SECRET

UNSPECIFIED EXTREME LEFTIST ELEMENTS AND PLANS FOR THE

SHIFTING OF THE GUERRILLA CAMPAIGN TO THE URBAN AREAS ARE

BEING MADE. (SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WITH CONTACIS

AMONG EECURITY OFFICIALSJAND WHOSE REPORTING IS GENERALLY (5)

RELIABLE.)

10. THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT STILL BELIEVES THAT THE

26 FEBRUARY 1976 KIDNAPPING OF UNITED STATES BUSINESSMAN

WILLIAM F. NIEHOUS WAS CARRIED OUT BY THE BR, FALN AND THE OR

WORKING JOINTLY. WHILE THE GOVRNMENT HAS IMPRISONED

SEVERAL INDIVIDUALS FOR THEIR SUPPOSED INVOLVEMENT IN THE

KIDNAPPING, THE CASE REMAINS UNRESOLVED AND NIEHOUS

WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN. (SOURCE:

(5)

11. IN ADDITION TO THEIR RURAL MILITARY APPARAIS, THE BR,

OR AND FALN MAINTAIN QUASI - LEGAL FRONT GROUPS WHICH ARE

ACTIVE IN THE URBAN AREAS. THE BR HAS NUMEROUS CIVIC

SECRET

50953

DocId: 32306883

Page 6

---

## Page 7

•PAGE 6 RUEAIIA 9320

' NOFNRN WNINTEL

AWARENESS GROUPS SUCH AS THE COMMITTEE AGAINST THE HIGH

COST OF LIVING, THE STUDENT'S COMMITTEE FOR THE POPULAR

SECRET

STRUGGLE (CLEP), ETC. THE OR MAINTAINS A FRONT GROUP KNOWN

AS THE SOCIALIST LEAGUE LS, WHICH, IN TURN HAS ORGANIZED

THE UNITED POPULAR STUDENI MOMENT (MEUP). THE FALN'S LESS

SUCCESSFUL FRONT IS RUPTURA • CLEP, MEUP AND RUPTURA HAVE

WORKED TOGETHER TO ORGANIZE THE RECENT STUDENT

DISTURBANCES WHICH BEGAN IN MID-FEBRUARY. FURTHERMORE,

WHILE THERE IS NO PROOF, VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS BELIEVE THAT

THE FRONT GROUPS ARE NOW RECEIVING SUPPORT AND DIRECTION FROM

ABROAD. VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS EXPECT THESE DISTURBANCES

TO CONTINUE AND INDEED INCREASE UNTIL AFTER THE DECEMBER

ELECTION. (SOURCE:

(8)

12. IN DISCUSSING THE STUDENT DISTURBANCES, RETIRED

GENERAL RAUL GI MEN EZ GAINZA, HEAD OF THE DIRECIORATE

FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION (DISIP), SAID

THAT HE FULLY EXPECTS THE DEMONSTRATIONS TO CONTINUE FOR

SOMETIME. FURTHERMORE, HE OPINED THAI THE POLICE HAVE

AS YET NOT REALLY BEEN CALLED OUT IN FORCE TO HANDLE THE

BT

#9329

12

SECRET

J0953

DocId: 32306883

Page 7

---

## Page 8

PAGE 2 RUEAIIA 93300

HAVE NOT ENGAGED IN LOOTING. SHOULD THIS OCCUR, HE

PREDICTED,

THE NATIONAL GUARD VOULD QUICKLY BE CALLED OUT IN FORCE, SUCH SECRET

A MOVE, HOWEVER, COULD POSSIBLY RESULT IN SERIOUS INJURIES AND

A DETERIORATION OF THE SITUATION. (SOURCE: A PROFESSIONAL

MAN WITH CONTACIS AMONG VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALSJAND WHOSE S

REPORTING IS GENERALLY RELIABLE•›

II. CUBAN EXILES

13. THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY IS LARGE, WELL-ESTABLISHED

AND INFLUENTIAL. FURTHERMORE, IT CURRENTLY FEELS BETRAYED AND

REJECTED BY BOTH THE USG AND THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT. IN

THE FORMER CASE, THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY IS CONCERNED BY THE

USG'S EXPANDED FRIENDLY RELATIONS WITH THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT•

WITH REGARD TO THE GOV, THE EXILES HAVE COME TO DISTRUST

THE PEREZ ADMINISTRATION WHICH THEY FEEL HAS UNJUSTLY

HARRASSED THE COMMUNITY SINCE THE 6 OCOBER 1976

BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIRLINE, SUPPOSEDLY BY CUBAN EXILE EXTREMISIS.

THE FAIRLY RECENT INSTANCE IN WHICH THE GOV REVOKED THE

VENEZUELAN CITIZENSHIP OF A WELL-KNOWN CUBAN PHYSICIAN IN RETALIATION

SECRET

30953

DocId: 32306883

Page 8

---

## Page 9

PAGE 4, RUEAIIA 9330

NO FNRN WNINTEL

BOTH THE GOV AND THE EXILE COMMUNITY FEAR THAI, SHOULD HE DIE, SECRET

EXILE EXTREMISTS WILL MOVE SWIFTLY AND STRONGLY AGAINST PRESIDENT

PEREZ. BOSCH HIMSELF HAS SAID THAT PRESIDENT PEREZ WILL BE HELD

PERSONALLY ACCOUNTABLE FOR HIS DEATH. (SEE HUC}7858,

TDFIRDB-315/02855-78) (SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WITH

CONTACIS AMONG CUBAN EXILES AND WHOSE REPORTING IS GENERALLY

RELIABLE.)

1S. A RELATIVELY LARGE NUMBER OF FORMER CUBAN

CITIZENS HOLD INFLUENTIAL POSITIONS WITHIN THE VENEZUELAN VENEZU

SECURITY SERVICES• AMONG THESE ARE ORLANDO

GARCIA

DISIP'S CHIEF OF OPERATIONS, AND RICARDOL

MORALES,A

FORMER DISIP SECTION CHIEF AND A CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF GARCIA•

MORALES HAS IN THE PAST INDICATED HIS BELIEF THAT

THE USG

IS IN SOME MEASURE RESPONSIBLE FOR HIS CURRENT PROBLEMS AND

ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS HAS MADE THREATENING REMARKS TOWARD USG

PERSONNEL IN VENEZUELA. WHILE MORALES NO LONGER HOLDS AN

OFFICIAL POSITION IN DISIP, HE DOES MAINTAIN SOME DISIP

CONNECTIONS• MORALES TRAVELS ABROAD FREQUENTLY AND IS

CURRENTLY BELIEVED TO BE OUTSIDE THE COUNTRY: (SOURCE:

16)

SECRET

50953

DocId: 32306883

Page 9

---

## Page 10

PAGE 5. RUEAIIA 9330

NO FNRN WNINTEL

A VENEZUELAN BUSINESS

WITH GOOD CONTACTS AMONG VENEZUELAN

SECURITY OFFICIALS AND WHOSE REPORTING IS GENERALLY

SECRET

RELIABLE.)

17° THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY HAS RECEIVED INFORMATION

THAT MORALES RECENTLY THREATENED THE LIFE OF DIEGO

RR I A, VENEZUELAN MINISTER OF INFORMATION AND TOURISM,

WHILE ARRIA

WAS TRAVELLING ABROAD. THE COMMUNITY HAS IN THE

PAST SUSPECIED MORALES TO BE AN AGENT OF THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT•

SINCE THEY FEEL THAI ARRIA IS A RATHER UNLIKELY TARGET FOR CUBAN

EXTREMISIS, THE COMMUNITY BELIEVES THAI MORALES• THREAT, IF

INDEED MADE, IS POSSIBLY A CUBAN GOVERNMENI ATTEMPT TO FURTHER

DISCREDII THE EXILE COMMUNITY IN VENEZUELA. (SOURCE:

A VENEZUELAN

BUSINESSMAN WITH CONTACTS AMONG CUBAN EXILES AND WHOSE REPORTING

IS GENERALLY RELIABLE.)

II. INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM

18. ILICH ""CARLOS

VENEZUELA

I RE ZU SANCHEZ, THE NOTORIOUS

11)

SECRET

30953

DocId: 32306883

Page 10

---

## Page 11

PAGE 6 RUEAIIA 9330€

NO FORN WNINTEL

INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST, IS A VENEZUELAN CITIZEN

WHOSE FAMILY

RESIDES IN SAN CRISTOBAL, TACHIRA STATE. THERE HAS BEEN PAST

INFORMATION THAT RAMIREZ' ASSOCIATES OCCASIONALLY TRAVEL TO

VENEZUELA. THERE IS NO CURRENT INFORMATION INDICATING THAT

"CARLOS" HIMSELF OR ANY OF HIS CURRENT CLOSE ASSOCIATES ARE

NOW IN VENEZUELA.

(SOURCE:

SECRET

19. JOHNY

HO UR I, LATIN AMERICAN HEAD OF THE

POPULAR FRONI FOR THE LIBERATION OF PALESTINE (PFLP),

RESIDES IN THE PORT CITY OF LA GUAIRA IN THE CARACAS FEDERAL

DISTRICIO THE GOV IS AWARE OF KHOURI'S PRESENCE IN VENEZUELA

AND HAS AGREED TO ALLOW HIM TO REMAIN IN THE COUNTRY WITH

HIS FAMILY AS LONG AS HE DOES NOT BECOME INVOLVED IN PFLP

OR ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA. IN AN EFFORT TO ENSURE

KHOURI'S COMPLIANCE, THE GOV OCCASIONALLY MONITORS HIS ACTIVITIES.

AS IN THE PAST, DISIP WILL UNDOUBTEDLY PLACE KHOURI UNDER

"PREVENTIVE DETENTION" DURING PRESIDENT CARTER'S VISIT.

(SOURCE: A STAFF OFFICER OF THIS AGENCY.)

BT

#9330

200 IN ADDITION TO CUBAN EXILES, JEWISH AND ARAB GROUPS,

18.

SECRET

J0953

DocId: 32306883

Page 11

---

## Page 12

PAGE 2 RUEAIIA 93315

CARTER'S VISIT. (SOULSE:

NONRN WNINTEL

A STAFF OFFICER OF THIS

AGENCY .)

SECRET

IV• THE VENEZUELAN SECURITY SERVICES

21• THE VENEZUELAN SECURITY SERVICES, ESPECIALLY DISIP,

HAVE BEEN HARD HIT BY PERSONAL RIVALRIES AMONG THEIR TOP

OFFICIALS. PART OF DISIP'S DIFFICULTIES ARISE FROM CHARGES

OF MISCONDUCT IN THE HANDLING OF THE ANTI-GUERRILLA CAMPAIGN

IN THE EASTERN STATES. ANOTHER PART STEMS FROM MUTUAL DISTRUST

AND BACKBITING AMONG IIS LEADERS. DISIP'S EFFICIENCY, WHICH UNDER

NORMAL CONDITIONS IS NONE TOO GOOD, IS NOT UP TO IIS USUAL

STANDARD. DISIP DIRECTOR GIMENEZ HAS VOICED HIS LACK OF

FAITH IN THE YOUNGER GENERATION OF DISIP OFFICERS AND HAS

EXPRESSED HIS DESIRE FOR A RETURN TO THE OLDER, MORE EXPERIENCED

OFFICIALSO (SOURCE: LA VENEZUELAN PROFESSIONAL MANJWITH CONTACIS (E)

AMONG VENEZUELAN EECUFITY OFFICEALS) AND UNDEE REPORTING IS

GENERALLY RELIABLE.)

22. SINCE THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR BOTH DISIP AND THE

TECHNICAL JUDICIAL POLICE (PTJ) HAVE EXPERIENCED FUNDING

SECRET

70953

DocId: 32306883

Page 12

---

## Page 13

PAGE 3 RUEAIIA 9331

NONRN WNINTEL

PROBLEMS WHICH, ACCO

NG TO DISIP DIRECTOR GIMÈMEZ, ARE DUE TO

THE GOV'S CURRENT BUDGET PROBLEMS COUPLED WITH POOR ADMINISTRAT SECRET

DURING JANUARY AND FEBRUARY BOTH AGENCIES WERE FORCED TO BORROW

FROM FEDERAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS TO MEET THEIR PAYROLLS. EVEN

SO, PAYROLL DISBURSEMENTS HAVE BEEN MADE LATE. AS A RESULT,

MORALE AMONG THE OFFICERS AND MEN OF THESE AGENCIES IS LOWER

THAN USUAL. (SOURCE:

E PROFESSIONAL MANTWITH CONTACIS AMONG 5)

VENEZUELAN GECURITY OFFICIALSTAND WHOSE REPORTING IS GENERALLY (5)

RELIABLE.)

23. THE DIRECTORATE OF MILITARY INTELLIGENCE (DIM)

HAS NOT BEEN INVOLVED IN RECENT REORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL

PROBLEMS AND IS GENERALLY STAFFED WITH CAREER MILITARY OFFICERS

ON ROTATIONAL TOURS. DIM'S OPERATIONS IN THE EASTERN STATES ARE

I CURRENTLY UNDER. INVESTIGATION WHICH MAY, HOWEVER, CAUSE THIS

SERVICE SOME PROBLEMS IN THE WEEKS AND MONTHS TO COME.

(SOURCE: A STAFF OFFICER OF THIS AGENCY.)

24• VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS MAVE NOT YET BEGUN TO DO

ANY SUBSTANTIAL PLANNING FOR PRESIDENI CARTER'S VISIT, BELIEVING

21

SECRET

70953

DocId: 32306883

Page 13

---

## Page 14

PAGE 4 RUEAIIA 9331

NONRN WNINTEL

IT IS•TOO EARLY TO DO SO. PRELIMINARY THOUGHT, HOWEVER, HAS

BEEN GIVEN TO ESTABLISHING A JOINT SPECIAL SECURITY COMMAND

TO COORDINATE MILITARY, POLICE AND SECURITY UNITS ASSIGNED

TO SAFEGUARDING PRESIDENT CARTER AND HIS PARTY• (SOURCE:

SECRET

25. IN GENERAL, THE INTERNAL DIFFICULTIES OF THE

SERVICES TEND TO MAKE BOTH DIM AND DISIP LESS FORTHCOMING

WITH AND TRUSIFUL OF OUTSIDERS. FURTHERMORE, THEY ARE

SUSPICIOUS OF EACH OTHER AND MUTUAL COOPERATION IS LIMITED.

DESPITE THESE LIMITATIONS, THE VENEZUELAN SECURITY SERVICES

ARE WELL DISPOSED TO AND CAN BE EXPECTED TO PROVIDE THE

NECESSARY PROTECTION FOR AND COOPERATION WITH PRESIDENT

CARTER AND HIS PARTY• (SOURCE: A STAFF OFFICER OF THIS

AGENCY.)

V. EMBASSY COMMENT

25• CEMBASSY COMMENT: THE CHARGE HAS SEEN THIS REPORT

.. AND HAS NO COMMENT TO ADD.)

SECRET

70933

DocId: 32306883

Page 14

---

## Page 15

PAGE 5

•RUEAIIA 93318

NO FNRN WNINTEL

26. ACRS VENEZUELA, CARACAS (2 MARCH 1918) FIES CRET

CVC77868.

27. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY, DEFAII, FBI, SECRET SERVICE

CARACAS: SENT TO BRASILIA, RIO DE JANEIRO, LAGOS, MONROVIA,

USCINCSO (J-2 ONLY) •

REPORT CLASS SECRE T--WARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS -

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANIS.

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS- 1,20

#9331

NNNN @C-INTD

HH 50953

DooId: 32306883

Page 13

---

