124-90085-10130)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90085-10130
RECORD SERIES: .HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 166-491-6
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DL
TO: HQ
TITLE: i
DATE: — 03/27/1963
PAGES: 99
SUBJECTS : f
ALBERT MEADOWS
: DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Confidential
! RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 07/14/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

HW 50953 Docld:32329249 Page 1


}-
|
| NW 50953 Docla:32329249 Page 2

DL 166-84

i Mrs; LOUISE PECK, Southwestern Bell Telephone
Company, Longview, Texas, was. contacted 12/6/62 by SA
ALAN L, MANNING.

Mr. RON MAPLES, Southwestern Bell Telephone
Company; Tyler, Texas, was. contacted 12/10/62 by SA MANNING.

Mr. CHARLES R, MASON, Office Manager, Southwestern
Bell Telephone Company, Cleburne; Texas, was contacted 1/22/63
by SA JOHN V. ALMON.

Mr. C, 0, KING, Braniff Airlines, Dallas, Texas,
was contacted 2/6/63 by SA RICHARD A. CARR.

DL-177-CS whose identity is known to the Bureau
was contacted 3/19/63 by SAA RAYMOND C, ECKENRODE concerning
information in the records of the East Dallas Bank and Trust
Company, Dallas, Texas.

The following is a summary of pertinent information
received from informants and confidential sources of the
Dallas Office in connection with captioned matter. These
sources have requesited their identities be kept confidential.

On 12/11/62 DL-141-C. advised SAA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING
that.on about the first of December 1962 MEADOWS was..trying
to contact R. C. "ROOSTER" THREADGILL, a Bristol, Texas,
gambler, to go fishing and MEADOWS had remarked to DL-141-C
that he, MEADOWS, had quit bookmaking and was glad tist he
had because all bookmakers lost everything on the 1962
football season. MEADOWS commented that. he too would have
lost heavily if he had been booking during this season.

On 12/11/62 DL-172-C advised that. MEADOWS, GRIMES
and.a third person, whose name was. unknown to the informant
but who was originally. from Dallas and had previously worked
as-a dice man in Corpus Christi, Texas, and for JIMMY GREEN
in the Key West Club, Hot Springs, Arkansas, were presently
running a crooked dice game at a house near Arlington, Texas,
which was formerly owned by Dallas gambler J. B. TURNS.

Hq
Cover Page



DL 166-84

other job other than being employed. in a gambling establishment,

On 12/28/62, GREEN advised he was not acquainted
with anyone by the name of ‘ALBERT MEADOWS, however, stated
he ‘knew ‘that he had: heard the name before and could not
recall under what circumstances. He advised he was positive
he had-never had any sort of dealings with anyone by that
name and waild not. know MEADOWS if he were to meet him in
person. GREEN further, advised he was not acquainted with
anyone by the name of | JANICE CHRISTAKIS and reiterated he
could furnish no information whatso@ver concerning CHRISTAKIS
or MEADOWS.

On 12/31/62 H, L. KIRKPATRICK, Vice President and
Cashier, East Dallas Bank and Trust Company, described
president of the bank WARREN A. GILBERT, JT, as a “wheeler
and dealer" who would do anything "for a dollar". KIRKPATRICK
further stated an unknown gambler had been seen by KIRKPATRICK
in conference with GILBERT every Friday and Monday, behind
closed doors. KIRKPATRICK identified FRED MERRILL, a known
Dallas gambler as a frequent visitor With GILBERT in the
bank and further stated that subject MEADOWS is at the bank
on an average of once a week. (The unknown gambler was
subsequently identified by the Dallas Division as 8, C,
"CHICK" FLOURNQY..)

On 1/15/63 the Savannah Division furnished the
following:

On 1/12/63, New Orleans informant NO 1139-C,
while in Brunswick, Georgia, area on a special assignment,
advised SAS RUSSELL L, SAVITZ and JOHN P, MC QUIRE he is
familiar with both the sub. @ct and LEO CARSON of Long County,
Georgia. He stated both su ject and CARSON are known by him
to be gamblers and confidence men. He stated CARSON and
MEADOWS are gambling associates and CARSON has in the past

worked for MEADOWS, CI further advised it was his under-

Standing MEADOWS had recently, within the past year, helped
CARSON open two restaurants located along U.S, 301 (Long
County) which restaurants are used as fronts for tourist
fleecing activities.

J
Cover Page

HW 50953 Docld:32329249 Page 3


| NW 50953 Docld:32329249 Page 4

DL 166-84

On 2/15/63 DL-146-C advised SA JAMES W. BOOKHOUT
that MEADOWS had, on 1/18/63, purchased a 1963 Oldsmobile
Starfire at the Ww. ©. Bankston Oldsmobile Dealer, Dallas.
Total cost of this car was $4,400, MEADOWS receiving a
trade in of $1,707 on a 1962 Oldsmobile and financed
$2,693 through the East Dallas Bank and Trust Company.

i On 2/28/63 DL-146-C advised that MEADOWS has been
buying automobiles from W. 0, Bankston since 1934. Informant
also advised that MEADOWS' associate BILLY RAY GRIMES on
2/4/63 purchased 1963 Oldsmobile, traded in a 1961 Oldsmbbile
and financed the balance of $2,300 through the First National
Bank, Dallas, Texas, with payments of $89 per month.

K*
Cover Page



t

DL 166-84

On February 27, 1963 the Washington Field Office
furnished the following:

It was determined that Washington, D.C, telephone
number DI 7-6646 is listed to Attorney JOHN J. NEALON, Number :
1 Thomas Circle, Washington, D.C,

On January 16, 1963, SA C, DENMARK JOHNSON
reviewed records of the Credit Bureau, Incorporated,
Washington, D.C., at which time the following information
was obtained regarding NEALON: ‘

He is married to ELIZABETH ANN, resides at 7315
13th Street, Northwest, where he is buying a home. He
has been in Washington, D,.C., for a good number of years
and is self-employed as an attorney. He is a graduate of
George Washington University and passed the bar in 1953.
Instant files failed to reflect any defogatory information
regarding NEALON. :

On February 7, 1963, JOHN J, NEALON, Attorney,

Number 1 Thomas Circle, advised SA JOHNSON he met, ED DRISCOLL
during the previous summer through in employee
of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). NEALON stated that

()(_____Jhad engaged him as an attorney for some pe
matters and that apparently DRISCOLL was referred b-: c)

to him, NEALON as a. potential investor for oil field:

DRISCOLL was connected with. He stated he never actually

met DRISCOLL but talked with him on the telephone on several
occasions during which times DRISCOLL discussed the possibility
of NEALON investing in DRISCOLL's oil business. He said
DRISCOLL believed he, NEALON, had money to invest from clients
he represented and that the oil investment was strictly a
exploratory arrangement which would result in a tax write~off
for the investor.

NEALON stated he received a long distance telephone
call from DRISCOLL who was in New York and two or three other
calls from him in Dallas. He stated he wrote to DRISCOLL
on only one occasion and received a prospectus from DRISCOLL
concerning the oil investment.

57

| NW 50953 Docla:32329249 Page 5


a}
rar
Sy

DL 166-84

7

NEALON stated on no occasion did DRISCOLL discuss
anything other than investing in his oil business. He said
subject's name is not familiar to him.

February 19, 1963,

arlington, Virginia, advised he is employed by
CIA and. met. ED DRISCOLL in about July or August, 1962. He
stated DRISCOLL was an Army buddy of another CIA employee
with whom he, as having lunch one day, during
which lunch DRISCOLL was present. He stated DRISCOLL was
seeking contacts with money to invest in an oil operation
in Texas. He stated he had a prospectus from. E, B, FLETCHER,
Dallas, Texas, and that the arrangement was a 100 per cent
gamble from an investment standpoint, but the pester could
benefit from a tax write-off arrangement.

[_______]stated he gave DRISCOLL the name of

JOHN IN aS @ contact because NEALON represents several
individuals whom he though might be interested in making

' an investment with DRISCOLL. He stated DRISCOLL never

i discussed anything other than the oil business while in

‘ his presence and that he received a telephone call from
him from New York several weeks after meeting him to
determine.if he was interested in making an investment.
He stated there have been no other contacts since that time.

57a

HW 50953 DocId:32329249 Page 6
