# 124-10277-10428

## Page 1

124-10277-10428

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10277-10428

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 97-4474-140

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SMITH, R. W.

TO: SULLIVAN, W. C.

TITLE :

DATE: 07/19/1964

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, ACA, AIRCRAFT, BOMBING, ATTEMPT, CUSTODY,

US, FL

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1A

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

INC TTY

19.1

NY 50953

DooId: 32301093

Page

10

1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORAL NO. 10

5010-106

#AT 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 28

Tolson

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Belmont

Mohr

Memorandum

Casper

SECRET

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

TO

: Mr. W.C. Sullivar

DATE: 7 9 04

Rosen

Sullivan

FROM

Mr. Roll. Smith pedin

2/25/955

BACTEN TO

Classified by

ВПА

ATION AÃLYOR,

SUBJECT: PIPER AZTEC, WING NO. 4878P

Declassity on: OApR/3/85

: U CIA INFORMATION

ATTENPTED BONB ING OF

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

CUBA, 7-19-645-10AW C

THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT BARREN

mKh 2-648

iTHI

MM.I.R.R.

At 10:10pm 7-19-64,

Central Intelligence

Mr.

ball CIA was informed that instant aircraft was in the

custody of Customs at Bradley Field, Fort Lauderdale, Fla (SAX S07

EREIN IS UNCI-ASSIFIED

ALL INFURMA:

Agency (CIA)

telephonically

Informed Extra Duty Supervisor John P.

Thomas that information had been received that captioned aircraft was

to be used in an attempt to bomb Cuba on the night of 7-19-04.

During

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

Notification of the attempted bombing had been received by

CIA at 8:40pm 7-19-04, from State Department Operations which in turn

had been notified by Federal Aviation Agency.

No information was

available as to the identity of any person or organization involved

in the bombing attempt. Reportedly, the plane was to leave Lantana,

Fla. at 9:00pm 7-19-64, pick up two passengers at Opa-locka, fla., and

then pick up two more passengers at Bradley Field, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.,

where it would also pick up four 100 pound bombs, and proceed to cuba,

Customs, Border Patrol. and Defense Intelligence Agency had been notified,

according to hr

None had any additional information re alleged

attempted bombing. as rioted above, while furnishing above information,

received word that the

aircraft involved had been taken into

custody by Customs at Bradley Field. (SA)CK)

Customs, Federal Aviation Agency, and Border Patrol have

lurksdiction over tilegal plane flighis over Cula.

Mr.

Requested that any pertinent information developed

by the FBI concerning

this matter be given to CIA. (3/S$)

ACTION:

Nationalities Intelligence Section will

secure additional

details of possible intelligence value to Bureau concerning this matter.

1

- Belmont

ADDENDUI: (CIA Watch Officer

further

Sullivan

Wannall

adwised early

edly carried bombs and piloted by U.S. citizen and

RoW. Smich

Liason

a crew of two.

Identities of pilot and crew yet

3/26/92

Nasca

unknown (SAx

1

Thomas

JPT: cto

REC 92184827-4414-140

SEI

(8)

CLASSIFIED BY5668 S49uLE14964

SID1

CLAS

TrICATION ECLASSIFY CN: 20X

SECRET

JFK)

97-4474

HW 50953 DooId:32301093 Page 2

---

