# 124-10301-10142

## Page 1

124-0301-10142

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/3/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10301-10142

HQ

2-1499-96

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM: PAPICH, S. J.

TO:

BRENNAN, D. J.

TITLE:

DATE: 06/27/1962

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

FS, ASSOC, ACA, BOMBING, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC MEMO, LHM

19.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32309876

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

PR

AL ANTMONY STURGIS

Leademarters.

Rorko stated that

be knew for

• a fact that

Fiorink had

he has done

no do payths goon

his own and

that whatever

on instructions

from CiA.

Korke

ic Wits he pressed

stated thot

since CIA Inow all of Fiorini's

that Cia would know it Florini was

planning another flight over Cuba.

Rorke stated

that,

in connection with previous

flights over Cuba,

CIA had

arranged for air-sea rescue

squads

and

for

United States Naval

vessels

to be on the alert for

their return

1n

the event they had difficulty in getting back

te their base.

Morke further advised

that be

had originally

contacted

CiA concerning Florini and

• that ho 220 recomendeo

tO CLA

that it use florint and his group.

Rorke

Compander Anderson of

the united states

identified

• Navy who is assigned

to

GIA'S

covert office in New Vork as his original contact.

also indicated that

additional contacts had been made in

Washington

D.

C. g

and

that

the activitios of Fiorind and

his group had

bcen

discussed through internediaries with

Colonel King

and

"Deke"

James of CIA Headquazters.

Rorke noted

that his

association with Fiorind

the past,

which included Fiorini's flights over Cuba

activities in the

anti- Castro fielo

was that os a trea

Lance sriter

been

photographer.

Rorke stated

that he has

encouraging

Fiorint

in his activities and that 12

Forini is considered guilty or any violation then he,

Rorke,

shodid be

considered equally guilty.

Rorke was requested not to discuss this

Better

with Florini,

Kore stated,

however,

that he has

long association with Fiorind, believed hin to be

strongly

pro-Ancrican and anti-Castro

and did

not want to

спстаррей.

Rorke indicated he

mould call Fiorini

in; the

lamedlate

future and tell hin to

extrenaly careful in

any plans he sight have mless

vere cleared by cid.

Korte stateo

that should Florini

arrested

for his

anti

Gastro activities he bas good connections with a well-know

involved. "hat ast would nake plenty of trousle

for those

In this connection,

our New York Office,

whose

representativos intervleved Rorte gearst chair.

advised that the

newspaper

reterred to by Rorke

a 20 mi.

SECRET

J0953

Do01d: 32309676

Page 2

---

