# 124-10277-10380

## Page 1

124-10277-10380

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10277-10380

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-21, 22, 23

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 03/27/1961

• PAGES:

66

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, OBA, ASSOC, ACA, EXPEDITION, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF DOJ, CIA

COMMENTS: INC 2 RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE i

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32301045

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

MIAMI

TIE OF CASE

Office of Origin

MIAMI

Date

JUN 9

1961

Investigative Perlod

5/2-25/61

Report made by

GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

Typed By.

ush

MOV IMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO,

aka

IS - CUBA;

RA - CUBA;

NM

CIA MAS NO ORJECTION TO

DECLASSIRICATIC ANOVOR.

RELEASE DA CIA INFORMATION

Localak.

IN THIS DOCUMENT. K 2-29-4

REFERENCE:

Report of SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR., dated

SED/KSR

3/30/61, Miami.

8-20-9

AELSNTORWATION CAMINED

HEREIN 13 0

ASSIFIED

- C-

Classit

EFFR

EXODST WHERE SH

ADMINISTRATIVE

MANNISE

Declassify on: DADA $10/85

Leaflet translated from Spanish to English by ELEANORE

MI. SCHOENBERGER, Translator, Miami Office.

ENCLOSURE - To Bureau - Five copies of a letterhead

memorandum entitled "Movimiento Insur-

recional De Recuperacion Revolutionario,"

which is being furnished the Bureau for

limited dissemination since it mentions

CIA in connection with the recent liberation

attempt of Cuba 7(57904(u)

CIA ME LAGFIGO AR

9903mld

an ene

39 24736 32512

Approved

Special Agent

In Charge

(ne155) (97-4474)

INS, Miami (RM)

(RM)

Do not write in spaces blow

90-44

1

- U. S. Customs, Miami (RM)

CIA, Miami (RM)

17 JUN 18 1961

- U.S.

Border Patrol,

Miami (RM)

4 - Miami (2- 105-2855

1 -105-2856, BOSCHT

1 -105-3034, PANEQUE)

littitis.

od.

AAAA

REC- 72

EX-113

ONI/OSI/G2 /

Date.

7064

report: is! lodne

to you by the FBI, und nolther it mor its contents are to

I U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1989 OB447BO

SERIEST T

SIDELOR

CLARIFICATION

ACTION

tributed outaide the agency to which

1N 30953 Do01d:32301045 Page 2

---

## Page 3

311, 32%

1112356

(5) isXCA) (4).

GCL

30953

DoẻId: 32301045

Page

3

---

## Page 4

REL

MM 105-2855

INFORMANT

Identity

MM T-1 is MM 726-S

Location

134-307-Sub A 97

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed and "I" symbols were utilized only in

those instances where it was necessary to conceal their

identities.

B*

(COVER PAGE)

NH 50953

D001d: 32301045

Page 1

---

## Page 5

SEGRET

MM 105-2855

INFORMANT

Identity

Location

MM T-1 is MM 726-S

134-307-Sub A 97

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed and "T"

symbols were utilized only in

those instances where it was necessary to conceal theit

identities.

B*:

(COVER PAGE)

SECR

NH 50953

DocId: 32301045 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

5-12-551

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Roporting Office

TILE OF CASE

Date

Office of Origin

MIAMI

3/30/61

Investigative Period

1/19 - 3/29/61

MIAMI

Report made by

GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.

GED:

Iyped BT:

mfm

CHARACTER OF CASE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

CHANGED

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO,

aka

eRecoceRadion RevaLuerenAnd

IS - CUBA;

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RA - CUBA;

RELEASE OFICIA INFORMATION:

•NM

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EX 2501 7

mkh A

The title of this case is marked changed to reflect the

with an

111th x then and revolutonario, which ende

7

F02

REFERENCES:

Miami teletypes to Bureau, 3/22, 24, & 27/61.

Washington Field letter to Bureau, 2/6/61.

Report of SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR., 1/18/61, Mlami.

Bulet to the Asst. Attorney General, U.S.

Dept. of Justice, 1/24/61.

ALT INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERDIN IS UNCLASSIFIEL

-P=

0-1 m

annaliles

Classified by

ART MISSAT (TEK)

CL

Declassify on.

DADA

9/10/85

LOTS

Spocial Agent

In Charge

Approved:

Copies made

Bureau

(RM)

INS, Cram tV (RM)

92

4424

Do not witte la spaces belet

722

U. S. Customs,

Miami (RM)

DYLE

CIA, r Miamise(RM)

173

V-

Border Patrol,

Miami (RM)

APR 3 1961

GIAIT SE

- Miami

.(2cc

T05-2855;

Icc 105-2856-BOSCH;

LOS- 303/- PANEQUE

2-192-FIORIVIAN A 2-18-98 W

CLASSIFIED BY 5.6686

lar

66

M

DECLASSIFY ON: 262

128

BES

(JFR

BECOMES

55 APR 13 1961

(SECRET

Property of FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and nolther it nor its contents are to be distributed

outside

#U. B. OOVERMMENT PRINTINO OFPICE LONE O SLATED DEPO

IFICATION

MC®

REC

REG. 6

NH 50953

DocId: 32301045 Page 6

---

## Page 7

RED'D

Farther:

MAT INT.

APR 6 5 09 PH'61

FOT/TA A

APPOMA

21,270

- 9/10

40 ті

1PR 101967

RECEIVEL

APR 7 10 07 AN '61

INTERNAL G

Ster

ISGCL

V6C0S:

2DE3

11.:

12A2222

HH 50953

DooId: 32301045

Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRED

+ 6

MM 105-2855

-LEADS -

I MIAMI:

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Pursuant to Bureau instructions as set forth in

Bulet, 1/24/61, to the Asst. Attorney General, Miami will not

conduct further investigation to determine possible violations

of

the Neutrality statutes, but in view of the possible

significance of this organization, Miami will continue to

follow its activities through informants and other logical

sources.

-ADMINISTRATIVE-

On March 21, 1961, Mx.

CIA, Miami,

- advised that the group of five, including ANGUS MC NAIR, who

were reportedly captured in Cuba, could be an independent

operation of the FRD, but that CIA had no operational interest

in this matter, and was in possession of no information concern-

ing the "Mercury"

On March 29, 1961, Mr. JUSTIN GLEICHAUF, CIA,

advised that ORLANDO BOSCH is persona non grata so far as CIA

is concerned, and that CIA has no interest in BOSCH's organiza-

tion, the MIRR; however, BEMBIBRE and his companions were

assisted out of cuba by Cla.

-COVER PAGE-

SECREU

HH 50953 DooId: 32301045 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

MM 105-2855

- INFORMANTS

IDENTITY

MM I-1 is MM 726-S

MM. I-2 is MM 639-S

MM T-3 is MM 492-S

LOCATION

134-307-Sub A-68,71,76,83

134-238-Sub A- 389($)u

134-44-Sub A

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed in this report, and "T"' symbols have been utilized

only in those instances where identity must be concealed.

-COVER PAGE-

SECRET:

NH 50953

DocId: 32301045 Page 9

---

## Page 10

CONFX

MM 105-2855

DETAILS: AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

ACTIVITIES OF THE MIRR IN JANUARY AND

FEBRUARY, 1961

On January 16, 1961, MM T-1, who is well

acquainted with many Cuban exiles in the Miami area,

advised that Dr. ORLANDO/BOSCHYAVILA, 4138 S. W. 16th BoRd

Terrace, Miami, civilian delegate to the MOVIMIENTO

INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO (MIRR) , :

8-18-1926

advised that the "Jolly Roger"', a forty or forty-five-

foot boat possessed by BOSCH, was going to transport some

guns from Green Cay, Bahamas, to Miami, where these guns

were to be taken by a group departing Miami by plane

to

Cuba.

On January 16, 1961, MM T-1 advised that BOSCH

had acquired

some radio transmitting equipment which

operates on 4895 kilocycles.

On January 19, 1961, MM-T-I said that BOSCH

disclosed that day that

VICTOR PANEQUE, also known as

Captain Diego, planned to take a group of eight individuals

on the "Jolly Roger" to Cuba.

On January 19, 1961, the Broward County Sheriff's

Office,

Broward County,

Florida, furnished information

concerning several individuals receiving training on

Isolated property located Northwest of Pompano Beach,

Florida.

On the same date, thesemen, who identisted them

selves as United States citizens ROBERT EDWARD ROSTALLON,

- 2∞

CONF RENTIAL

50953 DocId: 32301045 Page 10

---

## Page 11

CONS

DENTIAL

MM 105-2855

ILA city,

JAMES PETER HENRI, and AUGUST JOSEPH ANDREW BACHOI, JR.,

advised that they belonged to an unnamed organization

consisting of twelle, to thirteen Americans under the

leadership of FRANK STURGIS, 280 S. W. Outh Court, Miami,

Florida.

They disclosed that their camp was a staging

area being used by this group prior to its transportation,

date unknown, by plane of boat to Cuba.

These men were

observed as being in possession of one Webley Mark 6

revolver.

They stated that STURGIS said that their presence

in Cuba would encourage Cubans to defect against FIDEL

CASTRO, and that if the revolution succeeded against

• CASTRO, they would be rewarded with political positions or

busimesses under the new regime, and would be allowed to

remain in Cuba.

tea D.

It is

be noted that FRANK STURGES,

is identical

tO FRANK ANTHONK STURGIS, aLSO known as Frank

Florini, who

has been previously mentioned in this Investigation as

having entered into negotiations with Captain DIEGO to

obtain transportation

of his men from Miami to Cuba, where

FIORINI's men planned to stake out an area of operations

for themselves.

On January 19, 1961, MM I-2, who associates with

many Cuban exiles engaged in revolutionary activities,

reported that he had visited FIORINI's camp near Pompano

Beach, on the previous day, and learned that Captain

DIEGO had a group which planned to be leaving the following

vous py, and to

weekend for Cuba, and planned to take along four or five

of FIORINI's, men as a separate unit under the leadership

Of MAXIVILA,

JR, a Cuban exile. C)(U)

• 3=

CONFIDENTIAL

NH 50953 DocId: 32301045 Page 11

---

## Page 12

CONFERENTIAL

MM 105-2855

71.01

MM T» stated he also learned that ORLANDO

BOSCH, Captain DIEGO, and FRANK FIORINI had reportedly

gone to Tampa, Florida, to obtain possession of a boat

which had been undergoing repairs in the Tampa area (A)(U)

On January 30, 1961, MM I-1 advised that BOSCH

disclosed that VICTOR PANEQUE

had gone to Cuba, but he

did not disclose the time nor method of his departure.

On February 27, 1961, MM I-1 advised that

MIGUEL1 BOSCH, brother of

ORLANDO, disclosed that BOSCH's

group had been out on an unsuccessful) attempt to get into

Cuba, and had returned to the Miami area on February 26,

1961•

MIGUEL BOSCH explained that the group had "flown"

over Cuba, but had been unable to land for reasons

unexplained to MIGUEL BOSCH. BOSCH identified FRANK FIORINI

as having been with this group, which also included

VICTOR PANEQUE.

BOSCH claimed that the MIRR had maintained

radio contact with this group from Miami

AKA GUATIRO

On. March 1, 1961, MM I-1 advised that ORLANDO

BOSCH disclosed on February 28, /1961, that he had to go

to Marathon, Florida on March &

or 3, 1961. BOSCH

*explained that MARCIANe BELLO, one of his men in the MIRR,

was planning to go to Pinar del Rio. Also, BOSCH expressed

disgust over the failure of VICTOR PANEQUE on his second

attempt to get into Cuba. BOSCH did not elaborate on

this difficulty. He also remarked that also participating.

in the second unsuccessful attempt, was FRANK FIORINI,

(First Name Unknowi) SANDALIO, and one "MIMO"

CONFIENTIAL

NH 50953 DocId: 32301045 Page 12

---

## Page 13

MM 105-2855

ME. MC NAIR said he last saw his

son on

March 4, 1961, when his son announced that he was leaving

for Cuba.

On the evening of March 22, 1961, MM T-1

reported that ORLANDO BOSCH had just received Information

from the Cuban radio broadcasts that an MIRR group had

been seized in Cuba. BOSCH identified MARCIANO BELLO, also

known as "Guajiro" of the MIRR as being among this group.

BOSCH confided to MM T-1 that this group had been

taken by the "Jolly Roger" to a point off the coast of

Cuba near Cabanas, where they were transported in a small

boat to shore where they were apparently apprehended.

On March 22, 1961, Inspector WILLIS SMITHSON,

U. S. Border Patrol, Miami, advised that on March 9,

1961, a U. S. Border

Patrol boat encountered and inspected

the "Jolly Roger off Bahia Key, near No Name Key, In the

Florida Keys. There were no guns on board, but the follow-

ing occupants of the boat were identified:

ANGUS MC NAIR,

4920 S. W. 76th Street,

Miami;

ORLANDO BOSCH and

MARCIANO BELLO MARTINEL Terrace,

bọth of 4128 s. W. 16th

Miami:

ROLANDO/PEREZ/ALEJOXSIMETO and

GILBERTO BETANCOURT

both of 428 s. W. 9th Street, Apartment 8,

Miami. Eid

NH 50953 DocId: 32301045 Page 13

---

