# 124-10326-10100

## Page 1

124-10326-10100

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10326-10100

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-99724-9, 10

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

BRANIGAN

TO: BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/30/1954

4

BUREAU SOURCE 100 (ANGLETON)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

•CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

NN 50953

DooId: 32313172

Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD

Office Memorandum • UNITED STALES GOVERNMENT

Tolson

TO

• А. Н.

BELMONT

SECRET

Ladd -

DATB: April 30, 1954

Nichols -

Belmont.

CleRR

Glavin-

Harbo

FROM : W.

A.

Rosen

10/6/9

Tracy :

Classified

SPYEL LEASHEN IRATE CONTAINE

Gearty -

Mohr -

SUBJECT:

JAMES

Winterrowd

CIA

ANGLETON

Geclassit

EXCELT WHEKE SHOWS:

Tele. Room -

Holloman -

C.A.

4888

77/826

OTHERWISE

Nz00-

Miss Gandy -

As you are aware, James

Angleton of CIA frequently turns

over to the Bureau on a highly confidential basis

information which

has been developed through operations headed by angleton.

In тапу

instances the information is given to the Bureau without

clearing

through regular CIA channels.

In almost all instances it is given

to us with the clear understanding that if included in a report or

other communication prepared for dissemination outside the Bureau

the information will be so set forth that it cannot be traced back

relatest analeton a dens to sus been the puntie be information

relates-to.

supervisors to clear with Angleton before disseminating information

from him outside the Bureau lo

7-26-98

FR)

In taking up such a matter with Angleton last week it

vas determined that

he objected to attributing information which

SID/ASR

he had furnished to "Confidential Informant I-2, an Agency of the

Government which conducts personnel and intelligence investigations. "

He pointed out that by describing I-? as an agency of the Government

which conducts personnel and intelligence investigations the Bureau

was revealing to outside agencies that the material did in fact

come from another Government agency.

since the material related

5668

25X

individual uno now resides in

Angleton stated that, (5)

in his opinion, recipient agencies could logically conclude that

the information had originated with CIA since such an individual

BY

ON

would be under CIA jurisdiction insofar as investigations abroad

are concerned. Angleton requested that the information merely

be attributed to confidential Informant I-2, who, in this instance,

in could be described as being of known reliability.

It is suggested that it would materially assist in the

handling of information received from Angleton in the future. if

the Liaison Section could work out a procedure whereby Angleton

might be referred to as a Bureau informant. This would permit the

Supervisors receiving the Angleton material firsthand to transmit

it to the field and aduise the field that the information in any

report should be attributed to an informant with a temporary symbol

number, which informant could be evaluated as having furnished in-

formation of a reliable nature in

On the

the temporary symbol number could

the identified by the regular

informant page

Bureau symbol assigned to Angleton.

WRW: mh

RECORDED

==.

CIA HAS

NO

OBJECTION

68 MAY

261954-11

DECLABSITCATION ANDIOR,

MARE CASE OF CIA INFORMATION

Let:

SECRET

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BRACKERS

LEE: 8-7-98

AW 50953 DocId: 32313172 Page 2

---

