# 124-10280-10077

## Page 1

124-10280-10077

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10280-10077

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-228-2459

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 12/21/1976

PAGES: 14

SUBJECT:

OBA, CUBAN EXILE LEADER, ARREST, ASSOC, VENEZUELA, BOMBING,

CUBANA AIRLINER

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

06/08/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6.(1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NW 50953 DocId: 32302140

Page 1

---

## Page 2

10.75-3N

EDITIONS

DEbrel (rypen riled in)

INTELLIGENCE

Intelligence Information Cable

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

• ROUTINE

IN-133858

PAGE 1 OF 14 PAGES

STATE/ INR

JCS/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCC SWS-

NSA

TRENG

"NSC/S...SDO NIO CRS

(SY/I/PIB) SS/ID

DDA

FBI

SECUR

DIRECTORATE OF

OPERATIONS

Classified

Claegory by Recedempossibling

Officer, Exempt from General Meclas

ification Schedule of E.O. 11652 Exemption

Impossible to Determine Date of Automatic Declassification.

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THIS IS AN

INORMASQO REORT, ROBY TONALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

CITE TDFIR DB - 315/12748-76

RELEASE GRACIA INFORMATION

•POLITICAL MATTERS

IN THIS DOCUMON

T. EXCEPt BRACKETS DIST 21 DECEMBER 1976

P127-98-50 K5N 2-21-98(JFK)

REPORT CLASS-SECRET WARNING

NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED NÖT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN

NATIONALS-

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORA CONSULTANTS

10. MARUNGE

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINEE

HEREIN IS UNGLASCISIED ARE DEE

DOI

÷17 DECEMBER 1976 DATES- 21-94 BYSPIME CLUEE

SUBJECT: APPRAISAL OF THE CURRENT

SECUP.ITY

SI TUATION

iN VENEZUELA

IN

V-33

CONNECTIONTYOTN THE 26QED JBARS976030HANWAR1222

VISI DER VICE PRESIDENT NELSON

CEE4+2-228.2459)

AC Q

VENEZUELA, CAR AC AS FIELD NO.

7360

S JAN 4 1977

SOURCE :

THIS IS A FIELD APPRAISAL.

IT PRESENTS THE VIEWS OF THIS

GEN IOR DFFICER ON THE SCENE. IT IS AN INTERPRE-

TATION BASED ON PREVIOUSLY REPORTED INFORMATION. PREPARED

PRIMARILY FOR INTERNAL AGENCY USE, IT IS DISSEMINATED IN THE

BELIEF THAT IT MAY BE USEFUL TO INTELLIGENCE ANALYSTS IN

THEIR OWN ASSESSMENT OF THE SITUATION.

SUM MARY :

THERE IS NO CURRENT INFORMATION TO INDICATE THAT ANY

TYPE OF PUBLIC DISTURBANCE, TERRORIST ACT, OR GUERRILLA-TYPE OPERA.

TI ON

IS BEING PLANNED TO TAKE PLACE DURING THE SCHEDULED 26

956

JAN 276-3

JANUARY 1977 VISIT OF VICE PRESIDENT NELSON

197746

ROCKEFELLER

VENEZUELA.

WHILE NO SUCH ACTIVITIES ARE ANTICIPATED.

1109-12-228

NH 50953 DocId: 32302140 Page 2

---

## Page 3

280-10077

300/

EDITIONS

RECEIVED

NTELLICENOE DIV

IN 133658

TDFIR DB: 315/12748-76

MARNNG NOTICE

SENSIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHOOS INVOLVED

PAGE 2 OF 14 PAGES

VEC SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

(classification)

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

EVENTS OF THE PAST TEN MONTHS POINT TO A SOMEWHAT DETERIORATED

SECURITY SITUATION AND INCREASEN POSSIBILITY THAT SOME ISOLATED,

UNANTICIPATED INCIDENT COULD OCCUR THE POTENTIAL FOR ACTS OF

BUTE RNAT IONAL TERROR ISM CLEARLY EXISTS IN, VENEZUELA TODAY, THE

B'ANDERA: ROJA (BRI, THE ARMED FORCES OF NATIONAL LIBERATION S FALND,

AND THE: ORGANIZATION OF REVOLUTIONARIES.CORS, ALL INDIGENOUS TERRORIST

ORGANI ZATI ONS, ARE STILL PRESENT.. AND ACTIVE WITHIN THE COUNTRY.

THE POSSIBILITY DE VIOLENCE INTITATED EITHER BY CUBAN EXILE GROUPS

OR THOSE IN SYMPATHY WITH THE CURRENT CUBAN GOVERNMENT AS A RESULT

OF THE CIRCUMSTANCES SURROUNDING THE 6 OCTOBER BOMBING OF A CUBANA

AIRLINER, CANNOT BE DISCOUNTED. ALSO: THE REPORTED PRESENCE IN

VENEZUEL'A OF INDIVIDUALS CLOSELY ASSOCIATED TO THE VENEZUELAN-BORN.

nest

INTERN AT IONAL

TERRORIST IL TCH MCARLOS

AR AM IR EZV/SANCHEZ MUST BE

venes

CONSIDERED. THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT, HOWEVÉR, IS WELL AWARE

OF THESE POTENTIAL DANGERS AND iS MONITORING THE SITUATIONS.

NONETHELESS, IT MUST BE REMEMBERED THAT RECENT DIFFICULTIES HAVE

SERVED TO DISRUPT, AND THUS WEAKEN, THE VENEZUELAN SECURITY SERVICES,

PARTICULARLY THE DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND

PREVENTION (DISIPS. ADDITIONALLY, THE VENEZUELAN SERVICES CAN BE

EXPECTED TO BE MUCH L'S EFFICIENT AS A RESULTI

BEING UNDERSTAFFED

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32302140 Page 3

---

