# 124-10222-10142

## Page 1

124-10222-10142

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10222-10142

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4133-1ST NR 106

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

• TO :

CIA

CIA

TITLE ::

DATE: 06/11/1964

• PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

MRR, NUMEROUS EXILE GROUPS, INTERNAL

INSURRECTION, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NH 50953

DooId: 32298366

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(0)

ThON

REPOI

INFORMATO

ENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC

REPORT

This materlal contains information alecting the Natlonal Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Esplonage Lawa, Title

18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and iS%, the tranamission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is probibited

by,law.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Cuba/Venezuela/Dominican Republic

Plans of/Cuban Exile Groups for

Concerted Action Against Cuba"

- coples made

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

CS -3/583,533

11 June 1964

NO. PAGES

2

DATE OF

Mid-April - 6 Na

for review at FBIHQ by

•ISCA

3.14.78

1987

REFERENCES

e610 106-1081 (toRie

111000649074120

991133689090

INFO.

+: 105-12088 (SNFE)

PLACE B

England, London

DATE ACQ. (25 May

• 1964)

FIELD REPORT NO. OEL-38129

THIS IS UNEVALUATES INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

5D/Ks2

99

from a regular source, probably

Tellable, from persons mentioned in the report.

do

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

NRELEASE OF CIA INFORMATI

In

a private conversation on 4 May. 1964 a member of the Frente

excopy

Ade Obreros Revolucionario Cubanos (FORC, Front of Revolutionary

"Cuban Workers)I claimed that the following exile groups were

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

sconniving to take action against Cuba within the next few months:

the Movimiento de Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MRR

. Movement for

Revolutionary Recovery) ; thelEjercito Rebelde (Th Rebel Army.) ;

and the

"Alliance" of the Movimiento Revolucionario Popular (MRP,

•Popular Revolutionary Movement), the Segundo Frente Nacional del

Escambray (SINE, Second National Front of the Escambray, and

alpha

66.

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

BY SPSMAR

DATE 1S 4C AS SC

JURE,

the ER, and the "Alliance" were planning to enter Cuba to.

prepare the groundwork for internal insurrection, while the MRR

was to carry out diversionary hit-and-run attacks on the Cuban

coasts.

Meanwhile,, the FORC was building up its own clandestine

organization among

the workers in Cuba; its aim is to organize

sabotage and siow-downs in Cuban industries,

thus paving the way

for an eventual general strike..

FORC claims to have the support

of the Confederacion de Trabajadores Venezolanos (CTV, Venezuelan

Workers' Conlederation) and of the Confederacion Lat loamericana

de sindiaos @istianos (ClASC, Latin American Christian trade

Union.)

NOT RECORDED

3

6 Malf7addlban 184le, who is independent of any exile organi-

zation, claimed that all exile

groups, including JURE, have

active

became on The United States.

JURE was sáid to have

received arms and other material from the United States in recent

months.

58 JUL 2

1964

10%

7060

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM ES JUN 26 1964

ORIGINAL

4

DROUP 3

NH 50953 DocId: 32298366 Page 2

---

