# 124-10230-10462

## Page 1

124-10230-10462

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

11/21/20

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10230-10462

RECORD SERIES: MX

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-3702-46

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MX

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 11/29/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

SEE FBI 105-82555-383

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IB

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/10/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

N₩ 32333 DocId: 32179752

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rov. 12-13-56)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF SIA INFORMATION

Epeept for Buskets on Pig: 2.

Angienee

12:22

Via

EXCEPT

42843

Classified by

9803 Rad

Declassify

on: OADR

CABLE

NO.: 191

PRIORITY

BY :

(Priority or Metbi GLASS

FICATION -2.

7128-55

BUFILE ONE

ZERO FIVE DASH EIGHT TWO FIVE FIVE FIVE.

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, IS DASH R.

AMBASSADOR MANN LATE THIS AFTERNOON EXHIBITED TO ME CABLE,

CLASSIFTED SECRET, NUMBER FOUR ONE FIVE DATED NOVEMBER TWO EIGHT (&

LAST SENT TO HIM BY ALEXIS JOENSON.

IN THIS CABLE JOHNSON ADVISED THAT STATE AND FBI CONCUR WITH

AMBASSADOR'S RECOMMENDATIONS AND THAT FBI HAD SENT ITS

REPRESENTATIVE HERE GUIDANCE ALONG THESE LINES.

THERE IS NO DOUBT IN AMBASSADOR'S MIND NOR IN OURS AS TO ROLE

WE ARE TO PLAY IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTIGATION HERE AND JOHNSON'S

CABLE MENTIONED ONLY FOR INFORMATION OF BUREAU IN ORDER THAT IT MAY (

HAVE SOME IDEA OF WAY JOHNSON IS HANDLING MATTER THERE.

LUIS ECHEVERRIA, ACTING MINISTER OF GOBERNACION, THIS AFTERNOON

ADVISED CIA REPRESENTATIVE THAT INTEREOGATION OF GILBERTO ALVARADO

UGARTE IS CONTINUING AND ECHEVERRIA FEELS THAT EITHER ALVARADO IS

TELLING TRUTH OR IS BEST LIAR HE HAS EVER SEEN. ECH VERRIA

INDICATED TO CIA REPRESENTATIVE THAT IN GENERAL STOLY TOLD BY

ALVARADO IS SAME AS THAT GIVEN TO CIA: ALVARADO CONTINUES TO STICK

TO DATE OF SEPTEMBER ONE EIGHT AS THE ONE WHEN HE SAW MONEY PABBED

CBSYBERIA RECOGNIZAS THAT IT WOULD HAVE BEEN PRAGUENT I ROSTIN

105-3702

Glossified by

tig or 050

(2)

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

SECRET

BRE P0 17

Per LA

19 52333 DocId: 32179752 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI.

SECRET

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

PAGE TWO (105-37022 -

FOR OSWALD TO HAVE. BEEN IN MEXICO CITY ON THIS DATE BUT BELIEVES

ALVARADO MAY SIMPLY BE CONFUSED CONCERNING EXACT DATE (C4)

OF NICARAGUAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE ARRIVED

MEXICO CITY LATE THIS AFTERNOON AND CIA ASCERTAINING WHETHER

MEXICANS DESIRE HIS ASSISTANCE IN ALVARADO'S INTERROGATION. WHICH

IS BEING CONTINUED BY MEXICANS. FINAL RESULTS OF INTERROGATION OF

ALVARADO WILL BE FURNISHED TO BUREAU AS SOON AS RECEIVED (0)

Approved:

Deni

_ M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NH 52333 DocId: 32179752 Page 3

---

