# 124-10221-10297

## Page 1

124-10221-10297

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10221-10297

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 174-2-14253

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/04/1976

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT:

OBA, ASSOC, BOMBINGS, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

08/17/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HH 50953

DooId: 32340904

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(PAGESR

RUEAIIA 8212 SE CPET

OUT "NOT ONLY BECAUSE OF THE COMMUNIST SITUATION UNDER WHICH THE

CUBAN PEOPLE MAVE TO LIVE, BUT BECAUSE OF COMMUNIST PENETRATION OF

LATI® AMERICA." IT WAS SUBSEQUENTLY LEARNED THAT TWO BOMBINGS OCCURRE D

THE JOTHER HAVING BEEN AGAINST THE CUBANA DE AVIACIÓN OFFICE LOCATED

AT TOCUMEN INTERNATIONALI

MAIRPORT WHICH SERVES PANAMA CITY AND THE

TARANG

PANAMA CANAL ZONE.

30 COSTA RICA: A. THE LOCAL PRESS OF 5 AUGUST 1976

REPORTED THE

ARREST OF THREE MEN

CHARGED WITH PLACING BOMBS IN THE OFFICES OF THE

LEFT-WING NEWSPAPER

APUERLO," THE COSTA RICAN POPULAR FRONT PARTY AND

THE SOCIALIST PARIS.

THE ACTIVITIES OF THE MEN ARRESTED WERE SAID

TO

BE DIRECTED BY

THE

ALATIN AMERICAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL" FOUNDER BY

Ch

ORLANDO BOSCHAVILA.

SAID TO BE

Cister

Kirk

Ring

Costa.

¡CARVAJAL, ARE COSTA RICAN NATIONALS. GARCIA WAS SAID ALSO TO REPRE-

SENT A PRO-CHILE ORGANIZATION, CITED AS/COMITE COSTARRICENSE PRO-

VERDAD CHILENA, " AND TO BE LINKED WITH BOSCH. ACCORDING TOI

chile

COSTA RICAN AUTHORITIES DISCOVERED AMONG @

NH 50953 DocId: 32340904 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE

3 RUEAIIA 8212 S E CRE T

THE PERSONAL EFFECTS OF THE MEN ARRESTED A LETTER FROM BOSCH MEN-

TIONING HIS GROUP AS RESPONSIBLE FOR A BOMBING ACTION TAKEN AGAINST

VUBANA DE AVIACION AT KINGSION, JAMAICA.

. AT ABOUT 0729 HOURS LOCAL TIME ON 24 AUGUST 1976 TWO HIGH EX-

PLOSIVE DEVICES VERE DETONATED IN SAN JOSE. ONE HAD BEEN PLACED

OUT SIDE THE OFFICES OF YIBERIA AIRLINES BUT HAD BEEN MOVED BY A

STREET CLEANER TO A POINT

FARTHER WEST OF THE SAME STREET WHERE IT

EXPLODED IN FRONT OF OTHER OFFICES. THE OTHER EXPLODED OUTSIDE THE

CostA BiCA

OFFICES OF THE NANACO SHIPPING LINE IN THE PAVAS DISTRICT OF SAN

JOSE. THE EXPLOSIONS INJURED SIX PERSONS. THE PRESS DESCRIBED THE

BOMBS AS HAVING BEEN FABRICATED WITH C-4 EXPLOSIVE AND DETONATED BY

CLOCK MECHANISMS. IT ALSO NOTED THAT IBERIA MAS AIR ROUTES SERVICING

CUBA AND NANACO IS ASSOCIATED WITH THE NAVIERA MULIINACIONAL DEL

CARIBE

(NAMUCAR) TO WHICH CUBA BELONGS, AND RELATED THE BOMBINGS TO

SIMILAR ACTS THAT HAVE OCCURRED IN PANAMA AND COLOMBIA

4

COMMENTED THAT

THERE HAS BEEN A RASH OF BOMB INCIDENTS IN SAN JOSE DURING THE LAST

SEVERAL MONTHS. THE EARLIER ONES ENTAILED THE USE OF BLACK POWDER-

TYPE INGREDIENTS, NORMALLY PURCHASED LOCALLY FOR RELIGIOUS CELEBRA-

TIONS, AND THEREFORE WERE NOT ESPECIALLY DANGEROUS OR DAMAGING. THE

NH 50953 DocId: 32340904 Page 3

---

