# 124-10320-10465

## Page 1

124-10320-10465]

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/13/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10320-10465

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

190-5749-3X

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: WILSON

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/05/1977

* PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS:

MARK LANE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B;4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC RPT

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32312148

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

JL. -TICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.

SECRET

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Fiold Office File 1:

Thle:

BENJAMIN P. MC MANUS

12/17/64

NY 100-117844

MARK LANE

Office:

New York, New York!

Bureau File 1:

100-409763

ATI INPORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCHE

WHERE SHOTS OTHERWISE

Character:

SECURITY MATTER - C

Synopsis:

LARK LANE reSides 104 W. 79th St., NYC, and is ar

attorney at-law with offices located at 150 5th Ave•, NYC.

LANÉ

18 also National Chairman of the Citizens' Committee of Inguiry

located at 156 5th Ave., NYC. LANE reportedly: addressed

Budapest, Hungary, 4/5/64; received funds from

no arian 1964; 5a co-calan o the National Committee

on the Integration of the Legal Profession of the National Lawyer's

Gu1ld, 5/64; as of 8/17/64, was Vice Chairman of the NYCAHUAC;

received support of the NY

branch of the WWP, 1964 and travelled

throughout the US during 1964 speaking on his theories regarding

the assassination of President JOHN F. KENNEDY. LANE travelled

to Europe In April and May, 1964, during which time he spoke on

the KENNEDY assassination in various countries. In Italy LANE

(Ф)

supported by elements of the Italian OP LANE Interviewed by FBI

agents 4/29/64, at which time he was uncooperative.

LANE

reportedly writing

"Rush to Judgment.

"a book on the KENNEDY assassination to be called

In early 1964, LANE formed the Citizens' FOTR

the US and Europe.

committee of Inquiry in NYC with branches in other sect as off 355803

missed by 9803 >

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

-P-

Declassify on: OADR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORIMATION

186-P54% 801 Mi

IN THiS DOCUMENT. KP 5/11/98

400-489703 - 150

SBERET-

Group

Excluded

from automatic

downgeting and

declassication

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. Il in the property of the FBl and ta loaned to

your agency; it and its contente are not to be di

ted outsido your agency.

140-5749-31

ENCLOSUN.

NH 50953 DocId: 32312148 Page 2

---

## Page 3

C

T-86

Rome, Italy e)

Via Legat, Rome,

letter

to Bureau, dated 5/11/64Y

cover page

NH 50953

DocId: 32312148 Page 3

(SECRET.-

SECRET

---

## Page 4

¡SECRET.

NY 100-117844

According tONY I-85, MARK LANE, while in

Rome,

stayed at the Hotel

Pace

ELvezla and

further

his hotel expenses were paid by GIANFRANCO CORSINI,

well, nor

Sera"

journalist of the publication, "Paese

[In May, 1964J NY I -86, another governmental

agency which conducts Intelligence type investigations

LAN are info sachethat held in the apart menti

LANE addressed a gathering

O1 CHARLES KELLER, an American artist living at

Via del Gesu, 8g Rome, Italy MaNY I-agatated that

approximately 12 persons attende this

meeting,

many of whom were either members of the Italian

Communist Party (CP), or were linked in

some manner

with

the talian Communist movement

NY T-86 stated|that the meeting had been

organized by GIANIMANCO CORSINI, the foreign

editor of the publication

"Paese Sera"

and CARLO

LEVI, an Italian artist and author and Italian CP

Deputy. During his sweech

on the OSWALD case,

LANE stated he had been invited to attend the

convention of the IAD. In Budapest, Hungary, and

that his expenses for the tilp to Bulipest and

other European cities incluring Puris and London

were being or the funer Government

LIn May, 1964, NY I -87, a

INdO 6594356=883

contidential

source abroad,

advised that the

"Paese Sera"

flass, tit

is a publication of the CP

get teeter

of Italy JERU

We On Apri] 21, 1964 NY I-88 advised MARK

LANE

returned to the United

States, arriving at

Kennedy International Airport

New York City,

at 5:11 p.m. on April 20, 1964, aboard Scandinavian

Ariines system, Incorporated, flight number 912044

-21-

ISECRET!

NH 50953 DocId: 32312118 Page 1

---

## Page 5

UN

SECRET

¿D STATES DEPARTMENT OF

~ISTICE

FEDERAL BUREXU OF INVESTIGA?

CIA HAS NO ORLECTION TO

DECLASSIECATION AND/OR,

Copy tos

RELeAse So CAN ORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP 5/11/98

Espat oh

Dates

BENJAMIN P. MC MANUS

Oñe38.

12/17/54

Flold Offico Fleds NY 100-117844

Burocu File le

THis:

MARK LANE

"SECRET.

New York, New York!

300-409763

ALAS IPTORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCITI

WHAKE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Chara eleg

SECURITY MATTER - C

Synopsiss

LARK LANE resides 104 W. 79ch Sto, Neg and is ar

attorneyat-law with offices located at 150 och Ave., NYC.

Is also National Chairman of the Citizens: Committee

LANE

located at 156 5th Ave., NYC. LANE reportedly: addressed

of Inguiry.

Hungary, 4/5/64; received funds from

on the Integration of the legal Profession of the National Lawyer'g

throughout the Us during 1964 speaking on his theories regarding

the assassination of President JOHN F. KENNEDY. LANE travelled

to Europe In April and May, 1964, during which time he spoke on

the KENNEDY assassination In various countries. Ln Italy LaNe

supported by elements of the Italian CP. LANE interviewed by FBI

agents 4/29/64, at which time he was uncooperative:

LANE

reportedly writing,a book on the KENNEDy assassination to be called

"Rush to Judgment.

In early 1964, LANE formed the Citizens:

Committee of Inquiry In NYC with branches in other sections

617/93

the US and Europe.

Classied by 5503]

C 419.

-P-

(JEK)

1900

100-409763-150-3568

DECLASSIFTED EY 5668-SLA

fide

6. 619

(JAK)

SECRETT

letter.

from automatic Sp Ser-beE-L+

doingt

sing and

7-20-941

declassifisation

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Dite

29 HA? 1277

This document contats neither recommendations nor conclusions of tha FBI. it is the property of the FEl and la loaned lo

your apuser; li and lia contenta sre not lo ba distributed

oulalde your agener

NH 50953. DocId: 32312148 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

NY 200-117844

(su)

[ccording to NY I-85, BARK LANE, while In

Rome,

stayed at the Hotel Pace

Elveziaand

• further

his hotel expenses mere paid by GIANFRANCO CORSINI,

mall known douralist of the publications

"Paese

#: +35-75-3715

on April 7, 1964, MARK

LANE addressed a gathering held in the apartment

Of CHARLES KELLER, an American artist living at

Via del Gesu, 89 Rome, Italy .

approximately 12 persons attende. this meeting,

many of whom were either members of the Italian

Communist Party (CP), or were linked,

with the Italian Communist movement

some manner

Ithat the meeting had been

organized by GIANERANCO CURSINI, the foreign

caltor oi the publication "Paese Sera"

-and CARLO

LEVI, an Italian artist, and author and Italian CP

Deputy.

During his syeech on the OSWALD case,

LANE stated he had been invited to attend the

convention of the IADI in Budapest, Hungary, and

that his expenses for the tilp to Bulipest and

other European cities Inclining Puris and London

were being paid for by the Hussarian Government

*In May, 1960

NY I -87, a

confidential

source abroad,

advised that the

"Paese Sera"

15 a publication of the CP

of Italy plu

LANE returned

On Ato Lne united States,

1964 NY I-88 advised MARK

arriving at

Kennedy International AIrport

New York City,

at 5:11 p.m. on April 20, 1964, aboard Scandinavian

Atriines System, Incorporated, flight number 911 ou

1336/803

pracketedinro.in

Der anotten ageNcys

letter 010116-20-90

S. SACRET

---

