# 124-10273-10081

## Page 1

124-10273-10081

1285.

INT?

Within the last decade has FBI initiatad any Intelligence

or counterintelligence programs against laber unions?

Has the FBI ever attempted surreptitiously to monitor

the defense efforts of a federal defendant?

Has te FBI, any agent or inforsant ever authorizad.or

directed, suggested or participated in an asgassination or such

an attempt?

Has FBI ever Initiated any operations or afforts against

raclo sitions, news services or newspapers?

Has the FBI ever sought or obtained illegal access to

bank records?

Has the FBI ever participated in curraptltious entry

operations?

Were any gith or 10r the

CIA

GAI SI NSA?

Has the FBI ever participated in Tail covars?

Is there any I9i program against All, the Anerican Indiar:

Movement?

Explaln fully tha specile Operacion COiNTEL Frogran.

Are sinilar prograns now in exietere?

Please furnian files.

Were COINTEL prograns discussed with DiB. the Attorney

Genoral or Congress prior to their Initlation?

What authority was there for ampediture of funds and

• manpower for cOINIEL?.

JFK (1). (g)

---

## Page 2

dt -9

1286

What 1s the

and has been the. FBI relationship with the

all Telephone Company and IT?

Please furnish all files.

-What is the kar Enforcement Intelligence Whit?

Does it maintain files on U.S: citizens?

What was the authority?

Does it pass information to Staie aná Local agencies?

How is this progran funded?

Now, with respect to DEA. Please explain the full

nature ana scope of the CIA's palationship with the Drug

Enforcement. Ageney, Including CIA personnel serving with DEA.

Give the commlitoe full data.

Explain Operation Silver Dollar end the relationship

of the drus Enfordsment Agency offless and Me. Howard Hughas.

Please give this committee all-jata.

How many

Chaleman P1ko., The time of the gentlemas has expied.

Mr. Deluns. Thank you; Mr. Chairmer.

Chairman Pike, Did you wish to make any response?

Mr. Walsh. I

cannot make a pesponse, sir.

I started to sake some zoses, but = am inadequate in

that regari and I would like to suggesi, 1i 1t is agreeable

to the chair, thet she questiona be submitter to us in wolting..

Chasiman Pile.

That certainly lil he done in tha:

manner.

JFK (11(3)

---

