# 124-10217-10494

## Page 1

124-10217-10494]

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10217-10494

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

105-114543-18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/04/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

JURE, SUPPORT, EXILE ORGANIZATIONS, FINANCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

y9.1

ITT 50953

DocId: 32296718

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

TELEGRAM I

FORMATION RE'ORT

TELEGRAM

793 and 794.

contains information

affecting

transmission

or revelation

SECRET

(When Filled In)

COUNTRY:

CUBA

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

United States within

Nation an efenner to the united stades esth is promisinid y

•Of the Espionage Laws, Titlo 18, U.S.C

Sect

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

THE

STANDPOINT OF CUBAN RESISTANCE

ORGANiZATION SUNTA REVOLUCIONARIO

DATE DISTR.

TDCS-3/546,099

4 MAY: 1963

PRECEDENCE

"ROUTI

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

APPRAISAL

APRIL 1963

ENGLAND, LONDON (3 MAY 1963)

3

REFERENCES

IN

31618

SOURCE

FIELD REPORT NO. DEL 35279

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOUDSE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

FROM "A REGULAR SOURCE, PROBABLY RELIABLE,

CIA HAS NO"UBJECTION TONES.

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

— RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

• Excap For I 6254

DATE L0-13-94BYSRS MACILER

1g97/SFK)

'(JFT)

1. IN APRIL 1963, ORLANDO CASTROS LANES,

HEAD OF VENEZUELAN

JUNTA REVOLUCLONARIO (JURE.)

BRANCH OF CUBAN RESISTANCE ORGANIZATION;

DISCLOSED THAT JURE

DOES NOT SHARE THE VIEW OF OTHER EXILE ORGANIZATIONS THAT THE

HEADQUARTERS OF EXILE GROUPS SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE UNITED

STATES. JURE'S HQS WILL REMAIN IN THE UNITED STATES AND IT DOES

NOT INTEND TO SEEK OPERATIONAL BASES IN OTHER CENTRAL AND SOUTH

AMERICAN COUNTRIES.

2.

CASTRO LLANES DISCOUNTS STATEMENTS THAT NICARAGUA IS PRE-

PARED TO OFFER AN OPERATIONAL BASE

FORSEXILE OPERATIONS.

JURE.

105-

114154-

SECRET

STATE! INR

DIA ARMY/ACS! NAVY, AIR

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONGROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEMS MAY 9

• NIC

•AID

GROUP I

duand from Pula.

963 downgrading. on

decloss.ficat.on

SECDEF

ORR

rog penas 00

STATE/DIR

FBI

TELEGRAM

TREASURY

ENYS

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

Ide: Mm SAN JunN (iNfer)

5-8-63

32 MAY

PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

1055114543

(15-20)

NH 50953 DocId: 32296718

Page 2

---

## Page 3

217-10494

SECRET

(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION + DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

LIAISON SEC

IN

TDCS -3/546,099

PAGE

IN ANY CASE, WOULD REJECT SUCH AN OFFER IN VIEW OF THE DICTATORIAL

REGIME EXISTING IN NICARAGUA.

3. JURE IS COUNTING: ON GOUTS OF VENEZUELA AND COSTA RICA FOR

AID BUT THIS WILL BE LIMITED TO FINANCIAL AND MORAL SUPPORT.

4. JURE NOW HAS 32 ESTABLISHED BRANCHES; THAT IN JAMAICA IS

CONSIDERED TO BE ONE OF MOST IMPORTANT FOR FUTURE ACTIVITIES OF

JURE •

5. CASTRO LLANES GLAIMS THE CURRENT DISSENSION IN THE EXILE

REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL AND THE PROFFERED RESIGNATION OF ITS PRES-

IDENT, MIROUEARDONA, TS A MANOEUVER OF PROTEST AGAINST A REDUCTION

IN FINANCIAL AID FROM THE UNITED STATES. THE RESTRICTIVE

MEASURES BY THE UNITED STATES AGAINST. THE ACTIVE EXILE GROUPS HAVE

BEEN USED. AS A: PRETEXT FOR COMPLAINT BY THE COUNCIL, WHICH IN

ANY CASE DOES NOT CONTROL THE ACTIVITIES OF THESE GROUPS.

6. FIELD DISSEM: STATE, CINCLANT, CINCARIB.:

31618

2

SECRET

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION:- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ATHT

50953

DoCT: 32296718

Page 3

---

