124-90115-10024)

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/4/2015

Agency Information

FBI
124-90115-10024

HQ

62-108665-76

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES :

COMMENTS :

ee SUBIECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

Document Information

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
CIA

HQ

08/06/1974
4

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL IIT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1A

Redact

08/07/1998

» APPROVAL OF CIA

MEMO

vol
HW 50953 DocId:32340453

Page 1


to ~SEb.c1/SENSITIVE -

cl “FRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY »*,_
“= WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

6 AUG 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation a

ATTENTION : Intelligence Divisio yi
SUBJECT >: MITCHELL rrvmtestolcrectt III

REFERENCE : A. Conversation between Mr. William
1 McDonnell, FBI Liaison Officer and i
GIA WAS NO OBIECTION Mr. F.1.G. Coleman of this Agency

on 29 July 1974.
SRARTION
crac FBI New York Report dated 19 July,

te Pent Subject as above. VV
rN 10 -'

S sep fusa Ya- (dee) :
® o 1: Authorization is granted for your Bureau to pass
€\ -a.copy of CIRA-0371-74 dated 27 June 1974, Subject as
above, to the Department of Justice’ for its use. We wish

, to make it clear that the former Agency employees. mentioned

eport: John Patrick MULDOON and
E@rovided their information voluntarily
with the intent of seéking the advice of this Agency on the

legality of the proposed venture of the Friends of Abaco
(FOA). Both men were advised to avoid contact with the '
FOA and to report their contacts to the Federal Bureau of |
Investigation.

honey

A pr PLE CLs

ane:

i
}
i
1
]
i

2. This Agency has not initiated any further contact
with the individuals named above or with Walter Joseph MACKEM,
the third former employee approached by the FOA. MACKEM,
owever,: did himself contact this Agency in an attempt to get

Ot PO Gre af
fo be

z Rofficial policy on the activities of Geb a aaa) Ss |
y
SSR San 62 70 i
2 rN {REG 42° es we = H
SN NX CLASSIFIED BY 010116. EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSLELCAT ION
N ~n NENG a tacred OF £.0. 11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY@=SB™(Z). IMPOSSIBLE
NI Ne RTO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.
So oA -
~ SS :
oe NSS. a;
x. Oe
VV a
ine SECRET /SENSTTIVE
PLS re)
WSs > flan & 2 sues,

ALY

HW 50953 DocId:32340453 Page 2


ORIN
Peat meats —/NTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC\-
y WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

6 AUG 1974

: MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
i Federal Bureau of Investigation
; ATTENTION : Intelligence Division
i SUBJECT : MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III
1
Hy REFERENCE : A. Conversation between Mr. William
4 : " McDonnell, FBI Liaison Officer and
i CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO Mr. F.I.G. Coleman of this Agency
| DECLA 3 2ND/OR, on 29 July 1974.
/ Re Thawecpr 98 FBI.N York -R dated 19 Jul
| IN THIS DOCUMENT. eveepr Be Pee o ne erent edt eet ru el ys
‘

the ban clus Subject as above.

Kp a

10-49
suppics® Y-l-A8 (SFI)

1. Authorization is granted for your Bureau to pass
a copy of CIRA-0371-74 dated 27 June 1974, Subject as
above, to the Department of Justice for its use. We wish
to make it clear that the former Agency employees mentioned
in paragraph report: John Patrick MULDOON and

provided their information voluntarily

with the intent of seeking the advice of this Agency on the
legality of the proposed venture of the Friends of Abaco
~(FOA). Both men were advised to avoid contact with the
FOA and to report their contacts to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation,

a)

whey of fre FC Cte |

fe GF Sf chewonty PhS

2. This Agency has not initiated any further contact
with the individuals named above or with Walter Joseph MACKEM,
the third former employee approached by the FOA. MACKEM,

~y however, did himself contact this Agency in an attempt to get
Yan orficial policy on the activities of the FOA. He -was

Ss .

OK te Poot

Ui,

\

r)

4

CLASSIFIED BY 010116. EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION
SCHEDULE OF E.0. 11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY 5B (2). IMPOSSIBLE
TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION:

7
4,

i
ya

q

4

,

Mt Cerne! Yrs bpertey

ae,
OT

SECRET/SENSITIVE

i
ue

FO
}
Ai,

HW 50953 DocId:32340453 Page 3

PeaeeReac pape

j
|
|
'
i

