# 124-10220-10137

## Page 1

124-10220-10137

JFK Assassination System.

Identification Form

Date:

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10220-10137

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 100-336318-20, 21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

LARSON, ROLF L.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 07/31/1957

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

BAYO, ALBERTO, BKG; MIL INSTR, ASSOC, VISA, TRA, MED,

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : INC MEMO, LHM

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32297861

Page 1

---

## Page 2

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WHEN HOLINA

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

004.

DenTiAL

SECRET

Washington,

JUL 3 1 1957

Re: ALBERTO BAYO, WA.

I. BACKGROUND

A. Residence

• On June 12, 1957, I-l advised that ALBERIO BAYO continues

to maintain his residence at Avenida Country Club 67, Second

Floor, Churubusco; Federal District of Mexico.

According to

I-l, the servant at the BAlO residence had advised that Mrs.

BAYO is a teacher and continues to reside at the above address,

but has

stated that BAYO, and his son are presently traveling in

the United States and have not indicated when they will return

to Mexico.

B. Employment

The files of the Visa Section of the Unitod States

Embassy, Mexico, D. Fo, reflect that in applying for a visitor's

visa to

the United States in January, 1957, BAYO advised that

his occupation is that of a teacher.

5. CItizenship Status

On May 15, 1957, T-1 reported tha

"according to the files

of the Mexican Department of Immigration

ALDERTO BAYO WaS

granted Mexican naturalization certificate #178/44

27, 1944.

•D. Immigration and Historical Data

On May 15, 1957, I-1 furnished the following extract of

data appearing in the files of the Mexican

Department of "Immi-

gration with respect to the subject: delu

On October 2, 1941, the Cuban Embassy in Mexico directed

a communication

to the Mexican Ministry of

Government (Immigra-

tion) soliciting authorization for ALBERIO BAYO GIROUD,

cItizen and a publio school teacher, to roman permanently infu

ARENTIAL

SEGNEX

NH 50953 DocId: 32297861 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SURE IDEN

MA!

SECRET

Mexico with his wife and children for the purpose of

operating

a chicken farm. It was stated that BAYO had entered Mexico with

the status of tourist from Havana,. Cuba, on June 23, 1941.

The

Immigration Department

advised BAYO that in order to secure

permanent residence status, he would be

investment In Mexico of 20,000 pesos Cared to make an

BAYO's first registered address in Mexico was Calle

Uruguay 12, and when in January, 1943, the Ministry of Govern-

ment instructed BAYO to furnish data relating to his

artisane or caring a lare, he saved ad tolone dolli

He claimed to be a former Lieutenant Colonel of Aviation

in the Spanish Republican Army with thirty-seven years of active

military service in Spain.

He stated that he had been the

commander of a military expedition which had been sent to

reconquer the Baleares Islandand claimed that his participation

therein had earned him the enmity of the FRANCO forces.

He

added that he had been in charge of the defense of the spanish

coast and an assistant to the Defense Minister, as a result of

which, with the defeat of the Republican forces, he had been

forced to take refuge in France as a wounded Spanish war

veteran. Being without other resources, he had sought the

assistance of the Cuban Embassy in order to obtain a passport

for travel to that country from Europe. . He was given the

passport in view of the fact that he had been born in Cuba, the

He added that, arriving in Cuba, he continued to Mexico

for the purpose of seeking the warmth and friendship of the

Spanish refugee group in Mexico and is considered to be a Cuban

He requested, however, that his nationality be

rectified in order to recuperate his status as a Spanish refugee

In view of his desire to become a naturalized Mexican citizenflu,

At the time he submitted the foregoing petition, BAYO

gave his

Mexico City address as Calle Republica de Salvador

31, Apartment 43(4)

On february 26, 1943, the Ministry of Government requested

that BAYO furnish evidence of his military activities in behalf

of the Spanish Republican government, and in reply thereto BAYO

provided a certilicate from the Administrative Committee for

Funds for the Aid of Spanish Republicans attesting to his claims

(4)

SEGRE

50953 DooId: 32297061 Page 3

---

## Page 4

COn

SECRET

On June 9, 1943,

the Minister of Government granted to

ALBERTO BAYO GIROUD, to his wife, CARMEN COSGAYA SANCHEZ TORIJA

DEXBAYO, and to their two sons, ALBERTO and ARMANDO, who were

the first annual renewal of their temporary

immigrant status.

of cuban nationalit in connection therewith, BAYQ was authorized

to engage in remunerative activities in Mexico

wnw...

On October 20, 1949, BAYO was

interviewed by I-?, a

confidential source abroad, and furnished the following back-

ground information concerning himself:

He was born at Camaguey, Cuba, on March 27, 1892, of

Spanish parents, and from 1905 to 1909 resided at

New Orleans,

He was traveling at that

time with a Spanish passport. In 1910 he returned to Cuba from

where he proceeded to . Spain and from 1912 to 1915 attended the.

spanish Military College from which he was graduated with the

Exom 1915 to 1917, he attended the

Spanish Aviation College and in June, 1917, was graduated there-

from with, the rank of First Lieutenant in the Spanish Air Corps.

2527 the spanion At Corpse

In July, 1917, he went to Africa, where he was stationed

for a period of approximately seven years..

In 1924, while still

in Africa, he became involved

in an argumont with a superior

officer and as a result engaged in a duel with that officerwhich

resulted in his losing his right eye and receiving other wounds.

In 1924, BAYO joined the Spanish Foroign Legion which at

that time was under the leadership of then Colonel FRANCISCO

FRANCO. In 1926 he returned to Spain to be treated for gunshot

and shrapnel wounds and was hospitalized for approximately

four months before returning to his post.

returned to spain where he was promoted to the rank of

In 1932 he Saptain

in the Aviation Corps of the Spanish Republican Government.

He remained in Madrid until 1936 when he was designated

Commander of

an expedition to the Isle of Baleares.. In 1938

BAYO was named Assistant Minister of War and was promoted to the

rank of Lieutenant Colonel and later to the rank of Colonel in

• the Air Corps.

He participated in the Spanish Civil War on the Republican

side and with the victory d

the

FRANCO forces found" it necessary

to leave Spain in January, 1939, for Paris, France where he

SEGRE

SONFIDENTAL

NH 50953 DocId: 32297861 Page 4

---

## Page 5

...

SECRET

MC 100-349

Identity

of

Source

Date of Activity

and/or Description

of Information

Date

Received

T=2

SA JOHN

Interview of subject 10/20/49

Jo CREEDEN,

JR.

Agent to

Whom

Furnished

File Nur

ber Where

Located

JOHN Jo

CREEDEN, JR.

2-18-101

T=3

Third

Secretary

RAYMOND

BARRETT,

U.S.

Embassys

Mexico,

D. F.

(8/49)

I-4

Former

Confiden

tial

Informan

XGU -117

T-5

Office of

Military

Attache,

U.S.

Embassy s

Mexico,

D. F.

Mexico

C1 ty

station

of CIA

Description

"8

Interview of subject "

Received by 2-18-92

REVIEWED BY lEWIFK TASK FORCE

Legat from

Bureau

ON 12/29k2 min/de

. REVIEWED BY EVIK TASK FORCE

& RELEASE IN FULL

ON

9/1s/97 chat

колетерени

L

RELEASE IN PART

RELEASE IN FULL

TOTAL DENIAL

C

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

Background data re

subject

10/8/44

Unavailable 105-344-1

Alleged Communist

affiliations of

subject

Subject's book

Communist propaganda

device

10/20/49

Legat from

Bureau

2-18-91

11/15/44

Legat from

Bureau

2-18-91

Subject Involved in

plot to overthrow

Nicaraguan Government

2/20/48

Legat from: 2-18-91

Bureau

=20

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32297861 Page 5

---

## Page 6

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

In Reply, Please, Refer to

File No.

CIA MAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSINCATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF DIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. 6X0

ExCops BRACkETS

GmB

9-30-97

9-29-94

SPOMACIEN

Classified

Declassity on: QADB. (JFA)

Washington, D.C.

July 31, 1957

Re: ALBERTO BAYO, Wa.

1957, captioned as above:

Reference is made to a memorandum dated July 31,

In cónnection with reference memorandum, sources

Identified as I-1 and I-4 have furnished reliable information

in the past.

I-2 is described in the memorandum of reference

as a confidential source abroad.

government agency.

I-3 Is described as a representative of another

T-5 is described as another government agency

which conducts investigations.

I-6 is described as another government agency

11-14-47

CLASSIE Y 56408 540/5R

÷ 40SMY 0Y: 261

(JFK)

AGENCY New York; begat, Havana

REQ. RECID

DAIE FUR!

8-16-57 RAB

9-2; 071.2;

052, cust

NOW F9r

715

BY

VNN/ork.

5)

SECRET

100-336318-81

FENCLOSU

NH 50953 DocId: 32297861 Page 6

---

