124-10200-10184)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10200-10184
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 109-480-1718
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: DEPUTY DIRECTOR, PLANS
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: — 02/25/1959
PAGES: = 3
SUBJECTS :

COMMENTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

AHH, ASSOC, PAYMENTS, NCK

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

06/29/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

INC S/S

vol

HW 50953 Docid:32288908 Page 1


ae Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich —

FROM:

SUBIR

eran ip
SEGHET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY” = *
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

25 FEB 1959

CIA HAS NO O3JECTICN TO

NDIOR,
Director : ee F RN
Federal Bureau of Investigation Ww THIS aren EXte

Brreker>

Deputy Director, Plans (Wt am f- sa ae

‘CT: U.S. Banking Transactions by tovcetind cy i Beltran, MmKH a- “O-4
friend of former President Batista 6: or" Cuba oh SLD KS 3

6-9-0 <,

|
i

a7.

766:

The following information was furnished by another office of (UFK) SS SE 3

this Agency. The source of the information i

100AR PY ALTIVG Fea

7
7

ENohy

bad &

wy @

‘3

a. On 5 and 9 December 1958 Marcelino GARCIA Beltran,

representative of the Mabay Sugar Central, and a close
friend of Tulgencio BATISTA Zaldivar, former President
of Suba, cashed four cks totaling more than $125,000
(United States dollars).

be The two checks presented by GARCIA} Beltran or) 5 December laneen

were drawn to the order of Alberto} FERNANDEZ #Nechevarria,
and.endorsed by him to GARC an. The frafter was the
Francisco Sugar Company; New York, which guaranteed the
signatures. Payment, which was requested and made in US
$100 bills, totaled between $53,000 and $55,000 in U.S.
currency’ es

On 8 December GARCIA Beltran presented two.more checks,
totaling $75,000 (United States currency). These checks
were drawn by International Weighers, Inc., 110 Wall Street,
New York, ‘Inasmuch as credits to this account had not
cleared, GARCIA was told to return to the bank for the money
on the afternoon of 9 December, The latter returned to the
Ig at the hae time and was paid $75,000 in $100 bills.

REC 75 LO9-u/ Se - M71 §

mT mame —!

» 23 HAN 2 1959
eros. 1 Stott be —_
Levene we

F7- 3

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN ‘

Ue

(es)

foe

HW 50953 DocId:32288908 Page 2
