# 124-90137-10086

## Page 1

124-90137-10086

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/16/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90137-10086

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 105-94614-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

HQ

MM

DATE: 01/10/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

• OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

UNH 50953

11

DooId: 32337320

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MT. Nasca

Mr.

Rucht-

HE 5 / 0

BAG.

SECRET

94614 —

NAL

CIA HAS RAPAGIECTION TO

DECLASS:

AND/OR,

RELLADE N*

BEA IN PRIVATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

Ourse royaleen

6020/tcar /a502

(CV

080+5

Guorge drin

CUTANO

* коди (1)

CHIANO Chath-foot

(c)

5502/0337/4983 0l0•g

502.20

68

Ks)

C7 & ODE

(5716) 6116197

CLASSI

818/93

9083(20

ALL INFORMATIDN CONTAINED

MEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

SHOWN OTHERWISE,

WHERE

Declas

(0X6)

37/23/98

SEK)

3240

21 610

On 12/15/60

and 1/8/61 CIA furnianod

infornation

010 2804oon Char

Mastonoliono one collaboroding ate?

6l9ne260

on effort

proachs Cuban

SaureG

ind toaded

Chinese Nodsonal 4o0

Gouepanone

tronosseting fende

do antdenbsfied

anti-Costro

inatvidualo

captioned

ard. Bapolved

indsodduola,

Chineso Watsonal&std,

0220g0211

inûtetenero

f& kavanag

Mardda,

70 602m

(Formosa) COnJOPPinG

Chinose Westoncitat

•offictole

MAILED 20

JAN 9 - 1961

COMM-FBI

There

2622

bo

od ofeed

to maling descrock cheeta on Taiwen

to Codornspe

Parogoing inforcation and Bupecu

E0 p

of roadi ca.

contain no informedson idendipsabic wick

Recorded

Dupileo contaen tho following inforcaston regarding

CATARES

CIA report 20/24/57 advisod

fron a color peaspaperaos

with accolion.

contaote among Ruonintong

pardy of chirage

Tolson

Mohr

Mansonaltot Government)

that Lomon tr.

Parsons

Bauono for Forneed

attend

the

Belmont

Callahan

De Loach C

GĂN 18

the

Kuomintong which ana

0$

C0/01/02 34000

Malone

JU t

McGuire -

Rosen

SAMANT

Tamm

Trotter

I o Foreign Liaison Unit

W.C. Sullivan I

1100-40-30

38345

Miam TY

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy -

(8)

VER 3 CAR REAM

MAIL.

I TELETYPE UNIT SEE NOTE PAGE IWO

NH 50953

D001d: 32337320

Page 2

UNRECORDED COPY FILED

---

## Page 3

Meant

Thy Futenuan

(v)

TANG TO UP (304

shot dine as

& Chinese procory

o firead rootarrand in lovand.

as hoo L1ttle

fornal

adroadion

but sa shrewd and

a good publio

pereron

runnindeng nonder.

Feрогу.000

CIA FADOr: 9/22, 58 adusood a Cubon

negopapopnor

good, contacte 38

she Chineso colony in Sovere

opported Demon d. Chlong, & nenber of the truntuteno

Contrar

21 Pornoon Jefo Novana for a threce

weet bony of

the chineso colandes in Fanone, Popus

Cheer.

Praguays

Arganisno and Cronil on on offictol

mianion for the Buontadong Control Contatee.

af assodon uno to @opese otote of Rumintong

in aforementioned

Thee report

mas elasodfied "Jecrat*

CIA popory 3/29/00 cduised infornotion received

Joon es Chinene buetnegomon nith contooto in Nochonelted

chinges oircles edusatna homon Chiang (DErANO Tal2P4,

6399/039%/4395) nenber of Cho Contral Commseles

one duomaroong rosurred so raswon on 3/23/00. 5)

No fled

Cobe because. Re feared So wag

the Cabon Governnent Snoonuch co

ho formerly was

vory clone do Badiotalg

pogind.

Thie report elmonsfied "confidenttor. 's

The foregoing to forniahod for vour inferzatton,

Tr the

evant cra furnishes addictonol date renording captione

subjecte, quen date will be prompily formerded your office (elu)

NOTE,

When this information was originally furnished bu

GIA

so Larson saen

the name of the first subject was indicated

IS SHU JUNE NOVEM

In checking the CTC numbers also furnished

by CIA, it was

opparent that the nome provided by CIA was not the

some as the chinese name indicated by the Chinese Telegraphic

Code Numbers:

laison rechecked with CIA and on 1/3/61 ve were

aduised that the nome SAY JuNG NUN dos an error but the CTO

numbers were correct.

inotant letter reflects the

naRC

the first subject as derived fron the Chinese Telegram

Code.

NW 50953 DocId: 32337320 Page 3

---

