124-10260-10063}..

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10280-10063
RECORD SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-210-7124

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA a
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 10/14/1976
PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: OBA, ASSOC, CUBAN EXILE GROUP, BOMBING ACT, CUBANA AIRLINER,
BARBADOS, FINANCES, EMP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL air NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW_DATE: — 06/08/1998 UPDATE DATE:

STATUS _ Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HW 50953 DocId:32302126 Page 1


~ . ey ROUTINE

. eS « e

Intelligence Information Cable
are IN. 067737
WARNING NOTICE PAGE 1 OF 4 PAGES
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND HODS INVOLVED
STATE/INR JCS/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCC SWS NSA IREAS NSC/S SDO NIO CRS
DIRECTORATE OF retin ficer. Exempt from General Declossification Schedule of xemption
{OPERATIONS Elgin oy pape Boring, tice Exemp fom, Cuneta Desloetication Schedule of EO. 11682 Exem
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS: INFORMATION SUBJECT TO.
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THIS..IS AN ‘INFORMATION ‘REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

f SEC pT i CITE TOFIR DB-315/10239-
ie

FEDERAL GOVERNMEZY

76

Whit oa | WatReas~ Cu bag DIST 14 OCTOBER 1976

REPORT CLASS S EC R E T--WARRING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS. INVOLVED--NOT_ RELEASABLE TO- FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT

RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS: OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

GIA WAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR,
RELEASE GF CiA INFORMATION /) 7/7.

COUNTRY VENEZUELA/CUBA | THIS Deal Se aaa

| por 8 OCTOBER 1976 KP &
: s fe aal-4f
SUBJECT °. COMMENTS OFA “CUBAN. EMBASSY OFFICIAL! IN’ CARACAS
‘ON RECENT ACTS OF TERRORISM AGAINST THE CUBANS

. vl
ph epee o7 ee 3.48]

ACQ VENEZUELA, CARACAS (11 OCTOBER 1976) FIELD NO. 23

| SOURCE A FOREIGN DIPLOMAT WITH A WIDE VARIETY OF CONTACTS? HIS ~_.

RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED. B Nov le 1976

Ce be
4 1. ON 8 OCTOBER 1976 LUIS JTS JORGE, MART "rN NE 2X ZAXMENOCAL,

FIRST SECRETARY OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN CARACAS, VENEZUELA ,

THAT THE CUBAN EMBASSY BELIEVES THAT THE CUBAN EXILE GROUP

HEADED BY ORLANDO BLO s C-HKAVILA a PESPONSIBLE FOR THE 6
a

-NeOan

SAID

OCTOBER BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIRLINER OUT OF BARBADOS. (FIE :
COMMENT: FOR AN EARLIER REPORT ON CUBAN REACTION TO RECENT - 3
ALL EB) INFORMATION CONTAINED : ' ‘:
SECRETS: 5 bet 91978 wey i ae snrefer— gr /
ictassivicatio i of epAc (act BC

HW 50953 DocId:32302126 Page 2


T nn z
EMP" -B413 -UrggeremeMe + SECRET (When ‘filled In)
i WARNING NOTICE cre

 Q&O- 10003

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES “AND: METHODS INVOLVED

' : TOFIRDB-315/10239-7:

AY)

as

IN| 067787

Ered AON

9,

PAGE 2 OF 4, PAGES

: “OW: 5
: sBORTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
«SECRET

~__(elasst fication
. wit
& vt

gem controls) +

CONTROLS ‘STATED AT BEGINNING. AND END OF. REPORT

qo 2)
TERRORIST ATTACKS AGAINST THE CUBANS, SEE 09, TDFIRDB-315/

10100-76, OF 8 OCTOBER 1976, FROM THIS AND ANOTHER SOURCE OF

UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY.)

. 2. MARTINEZ SAID THAT THE EMBASSY BELIEVES BOSCH HAS BEEN

a

RECEIVING ECONOMIC AND OTHER ASSISTANCE FROM THE UNITED STATES.

GOVERNMENT (USG), VIA ITS INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES, SINCE BOSCH IS

ABLE TO MOVE ABOUT FREELY AND OBVIOUSLY WITH FALSE DOCUMENTATION,

AS HIS MOVEMENTS ‘CANNOT BE TRACED. HOWEVER, MARTINEZ SAID THAT THE

CUBANS DO NOT BELIEVE THE USG IS OR WOULD BE DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN

THE BOMBING OF THE CUBANA FLIGHT. USG INVOLVEMENT. IN THE INCIDENT,

MARTINEZ SAID, WOULD: BE COUNTERPRODUCTIVE TO THE USG'S INTERESTS
: De
‘BECAUSE CUBAN PRIME MINISTER FIDEDS€c AS T ROJAQUZ WOULD SURELY

BREAK THE AIR PIRACY AGREEMENT, WHICH IS TO THE BENFIT OF THE USG.

3. THE CUBANS, MARTINEZ SAID, ARE CONCERNED ABOUT APPARENT

CONNECTIONS BETWEEN BOSCH AND CUBAN EXILES WORKING FOR THE CAPRILES

PUBLISHING CHAIN IN VENEZUELA, SHOULD FREDDYS+E-U"G 0,

ONE OF THE

TWO VENEZUELANS CURRENTLY UNDER DETENTION IN TRINIDAD IN CONNECTION
——e

WITH THE PLANE CRASH AND A REPORTER FOR ONE OF THE CAPRILES PUB- =

BE CONVINCED OF THIS BOSCH/CAPRILES CONNECTION,

om POO mR

ANOTHER

LICATIONS, BE DEFINITELY IMPLICATED IN THE AFFAIR, THE CUBANS WILL

HW 50953 DocId:32302126 Page 3

mM rom

