# 124-90140-10030

## Page 1

124-90140-10030

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90140-10030

HQ

CR 100-391429-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE:

DATE: 06/30/1961

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

GENE DECASTRO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32338073

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

REC-

100-392429-11

Dates

Toa

Liaison

I = A. Ro Jones

CIA HAS NO OSJECTION TO

DECLASSIE CAT ON ANO/OR,

INFORMATIORI

IN THIS LOLUMENT. EXCEPT BRACKETS

KP 5-12-98

JUL -

COMM = FBI

Tolson

, Belmont

wohr -

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach .

Evans .

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele Room

Ingram

Gandy

From

Subject:

June 30, 1968

Director®

Central Intelligence Agendy

Attentiona Deputy DireCtor,

Plans

John Logar Hoover, Directer

GENE DE CASTRO

INTERNAL SECURITY • SVIDEN

backsiny

11222

OAD

6-14.98

5468 SLD/Midie 55-54

CLASSIFIED BY 5468 S0/SR

DECLASSIFY ON: 20K

Rejerence is mde to your communication douga

FAre -22.

1901s your reference CSCI-3/765,9379

concerning copatoned subject.

This Rumonu has so ohiontion to your furniching

VOLT

source

the information set forthS

in paragraph 3 of your communication

providing this Bureau as

source

is not revealedo We have not recalued

a-separat

inquary from

concerns

subjecte

ARJ3811 ply'

(5)

NOTE &

Central Intellinence Agency (CIA) letter 6-22,61 advises

subject who is an ano

icant forin

recently requested a file check onS)

CIA advises that

on subject remarked, without elaboration, that subject is possibly

communist.

subject was born in England but is a U.S. citizen.

conducted an investigation of subject in 1952-1953 which draclosea

subject was a subscriber to the souter

"Informatton Bulletin in 1949,

subscribed to the communist newspaper the "Daily Worker" in 1949

and 1950, was a member of the Miami Council of American-Soviet

friendship in 190, registered to vote for the American LaboruParty

in dew vork catys in 1950, and one tene de castro signed a communis

cation to Judge Medina urging o

-Leaders in 1040.

H8strias of the eleven Communist Fort

CA desires to furnish this information to

SWe have no objection

subject has been in europe

since the latter part of 1950 where he has

neen princypally engaged

osa, student one a teacher letter glassifted. "Secret". since

ranchor uses the passage of information to

SECRET

HW 50953

DocId: 32338073 Page 2

---

