# 124-90092-10039

## Page 1

124-90092-10039

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

124-90092-10039

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 65-67235-782

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 04/26/1963

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

WILLIAM K. HARVEY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

3

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/30/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : INC LHM

v9.1

HH 50953

11

DocId: 32330794

Page 1'

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM, NO. 10

5010-104

'UNITED STATES GO

*ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (65-67235)

DATE: 4/26/63

tOM

SAC, WFO (65-8517) (P)

NO OBJECTION TO

14 24/90

UNSUB; *KGB Agent Known as

ESPIONAGE -

(00: WFO)

16 4)

ON SEE SETSOE

ReBulet 3/12/63, in theKSASHA" case instructing

ESPARAY BOSTIZKE, CIA for information in his possession

WFO to contact the Office of Security, CIA, and to interview

CIA HAS

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

SUBJECT:

"SASHA"

Foregarding the recruitment details and the documentation

SPENCER, EUGENE ROBERTS-for his 'services: in Moscow and to

ascertain the relationship in this regard of ROLAND E. DULIN

Mand ELIZABETH KARLOW, nee RAUSCH./

(& (4):

are attached for the

Bureau seven copies of

LHN entitled "'SPENCER EUGENE ROBERTS" disclosing the

SEE REVORSE

SIDS DOR

CLASSEY

MOTION

results of interview with ostrake

hal are being forwarded the New York office,

BRUCE SOLIE,

CIA, was present during the interview

which were conducted by SA ALEXANDER W. NEALE

JR.

The LHM 1s classified "Secret'' inasmuch as CIA has

afforded this classification

to, the

"SASHA" case, (18)

With further regard to ARTHUR NORMAN SHARS mentioned V

by HARRY ROSITZKE as a subordinate who probably met/ SPENCER

EUGENE ROBERTSE. WEO,

01 4/3/00

an unidentified individual who

'stated that ARTHUR SHARE WE°

employee of CIA was a homosexual; that this could be verified

by contacting his associates for the previous five years,

principally.

those with whom he had been associated

in the

Army.

This

information was furnished by letter to

the Bureau

on 4/3/50.

Bureau (Enc. 7)

(1+100-431694). (SPENCER EUGENE ROBERTS)

New York (65-21430) (Enc.

. 3) (RM)

2 - 1105-47669) (SPENCER EUGENE ROBERTS S -6

1782

(1-105-50336) (SPENCER EUGENE ROBERTS) J

AWN : mfd

(8)

CLOSURE

AGENCY C/A

PÉC- 3 @ APRIS

EX-117

FORN. 0-144

AF IBF3

XEROX

2,3+ /MAY 9

1963

4 MAi

151963

Exempt from-GDS

Date of Declassifie

definite

Nt 70953

D001d:32330794

Page 2

UNREC

AND COP

---

## Page 3

WFO 65-8517

On 6/1/45, Headquarters, Military Distriet of

Washington, forwarded to WrO a memorandum on ARTHUR. NORMAN

SHARP, ASN-31171664, born 5/10/99, West Somerville,

Massachusetts,

memorandum in

question was dated

5/2/45, and originated at the Tenth Naval District, San

Juan, Puerto Rico.

It stated as follows: (o

"I. Information has been received from a

source

rated A that ARTHUR NORMAN SHARPE, sgE. U.S.

irmy, stationed in Washington, D. C.,

address, Windsor, Connecticut, has been, for a

number of years,

very pro-German and feels that

the German people have been mistreated. It is

reported that he is "angling' for a job with

UNFRA to be stationed in Germany where he hopes

to alleviate some of the injustices that have

been done to the German people.

The informant

reported that his own relatives feel that SHARPE

should not be given a position in which his

feelings for the Germans could be exercised."

The memorandum stated that more definite identifying

information regarding the above individual was not available.

BRUCE SOLIE, CIA, advised SA JOHN L. STANLEY on 4/22/63, that

SHARP was not polygraphed re his homosexual behavior and there

was no formal report of SHARP's interview on 2/15/50, at which

time he resigned from the Agency; that there was no information

indicating homosexual

on 4/23/63, BRUCE SOLIE, CIA, AdVISed that nis

office had not been able to locate copies of the letters

which ROBERTS was instructed to mail from Moscow but that

ho would continue efforts to do so (8) 5-1) 07714)

On 4/23/63, Mr. SOLIE made

avallable the security

file of ROBERTS.

A perusal of the file indicated numerous

memoranda from ROBERTS while in Moscow, directed to ROSITAKE

under the latters Agency cryptonym. It is of interest to

note that ROSITZKE could recall no details regarding reports

from ROBERTS when it is realized that ROBERTS represented

CIA's initial efforts to place personnel in Moscow.

noted that several memoranda appeared in the file instructing

that certain sums of money be given to ELIZABETH RAUSCH, IOT

forwarding to ROBERTS In MOSCOW. (5) (5-1)0414)

PISE 18

UNLESS RANTED ONERAT

NH 50953 DocId: 32330794 Page 3

---

## Page 4

UNIT. I STATES DEPARTMENT OF IL ICE

FEDERAL BUREAC OF LVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

" File No.

NASHINGTOY 23, D.C.

April 26, 1963

10/10/81

FM 724/99

SPENCER EUGENE ROBERTS

INTERNAL SECURITY - R

AS SANITIZED FOR ARIACH

Multi

SNESS BIATEL

hir.

Harry zositzke, Chief, Covert Activities/Staff,

Central Intelligence Agency (CIA),

advised a Special Agent of

the fBI On March 28, 1965, and April J, 1963,

that during the

period 1918 - 1950 he was Chief of Foreign Division/S in CIA

and as suchwas responsible for a number of Agency activities

Luvolving the union of Soviet Socialist Republics. (8) 6-2441

nositzke advised that during the Summer of Fall of

1917 Adniral Millenkotter, then Director of CIA, decided

that a Cla representative

should be stationed in the Soviet

Union under suitable cover.

It was made perfectly clear by

Admiral Hillenkotter that the employee, who was to be the

first such Agency representative in Moscow, would under no

circumstances be operational in behalf of ciA. (#5-110041

The i suctions given, according to Rositzke, were

that Rositzke should find a person proficient in the Russian

language who would be

suitable to fulfill a Department of

State role in the American Embassy at Moscow.

Rositzke added

that during the 1947 - 1948 era the obvious place to search

for someone proticient in the Russian language was the Russian

Language Institute at Columbia University and that it was his

recollection Spencer Eugene Roberts was ultimately selected

from the Institute as a candidate for the CIA position®

Rositzke could not remember the name of the CIA representative

who had conducted the

preliminary work connected with the

recruitment of Roberts.

Upon inquiry he stated he could not

« opto entative

recall Roland Ernest Dulin's having engaged in any role connected

with Roberts' recruitment but Rositzke did not exclude this

possibility, mentioning that Dulin had been performing some

ChA personnel work during the late 1940s.

Rositzke could not

recall William Ko Harvey, a CIA official, having been connected

recruitment or

training of Roberts.

(151)0041

PEO

0N77a4/99

82 0: 5668 Se08cR

267,369

12336

101718

5:3 6141(21)

GCh

NH 50953

DooId:32330794 Page 4'

---

## Page 5

RE: SPENCER EUGENE ROBERTS

Rositzke stated that prior to being sent oversease

Roberts was put in contact with Department of State repre-

sentatives who helped prepare the latter for his Moscow

responsibilities as a Procurement Officer. Mr. Rositzke

vaguely remembered that a Mr. Stevens (phonetic) (First

Name Unknown) was one of those at the Department of State

(UL

who had dealt with Roberts during his pre-loscow training.

Rositzke could not remember any details of reports

from Roberts as to the latter's activities in the USSR.

could not remembo

He

vaguely remembered that CIA had sent some letters to Roberts

in Moscow, through State Department channels, which Roberts

was to have mailed for the Agency but Rositzke could furnish

no information as to the purpose to have been served by the

(u)

letters or the nature of the communications in question. (&

(5-1) 0627

Rositzke did not remember any progress reports

being submitted by the Department of State on Roberts®

assignment in Moscow but did recall having received a

memorandum from Walter Bedell Smith, then Ambassador to

Moscow, in which the Ambassador described Roberts as an

arrogant individual, critical of others in the embassy ano

that Roberts was not well liked by other Embassy personnel:

Roberts, according.

to Rositzke, was reportedly reprimanded

by the Ambassador for this attitude.

Later,

Smith wrote

another report on Roberts describing the latter as having

improved in his role as a Department of State employee and

acting "like a member of the team."

Rositzke commented that

soon after Walter Bedell Smith became Director of CIA he had

a briefing session with Smith; that he had been asked who

was responsible for Roberts' being sent abroad.

Rositzke

accepted the responsibility for this and Smith,

in a caustic

tone commented, "Orchids to you.' (5) 5-104141

Rositzke stated it was his initial impression of

Roberts that the latter was a "delicate, sensitive person,"

extremely enamoured of all things dealing with Russian

culture; that Roberts wanted to go to Russia where he believed

it would be possible to perform services useful to the

(u)

government through his knowledge of the Russian language:

5-1)

Rositzke was aware that Roberts had transferred

to

the Department of State around 1950 and was later released

from government service for homosexuality.

Rositzke stated

he was never aware that Roberts was involved in any homosexual

conduct while in CIA and was never aware that any CIA operations

were affected in any manner through Roberts' participation in

the undertaking®

(S-1)

FENSATIN AT TIS

UL)

CHISE

HH 50953 DooId: 32330794 Page J

---

## Page 6

MAMAS

RE: SPENCER EUGENE ROBERTS

Rositzke believed

Roland E. Dulin might have

been aware of Roberts' role

in Moscow for CIA but he could

not speculate on the extent of Dulin's knowledge in this

regard. Rositzke added that Elizabeth Rausch was in his

office during the period of Roberts' assignment in Moscow

and it was entirely possible that she knew of the latter's

activities in behalf of ClA. Rositzke did not berteve that

serge Peterykarlow (who later married Elizabeth Rausch)

knowledgeable of Roberts' assignment but he could not

certain of this. (8) 6-1106141

Rositzke could not definitely remember whether or

not Roberts had been debriefed by CIA following his Moscow

assignment.

He stated that Richard Suter had been head of

the Office of Operational Analysis (under Rositzke) and that

II Roberts had been debriefed it was likely Suter had parti

With respect to Arthur N. Sharp mentioned by Harry

Rositzke as a subordinate who probably had talked to Roberts

in connection with the latter's CIA assignment, the files of CIA

born way 108m

disclose that Arthur Norman is employed by that Agency fron

1899, at Vest i

Massachusetts,

activities with a number of personnel then attached to

the U. S. Naval Academy band.

Sharp's permanent address

we was descried forest street Hartford a connecticutes

inches tall, 170 pounds, having brown-grey hair and blue

eyes.

(ST)

(u)

This documont contains neither

recommoadations nor conclusions

of

the T?"..,

"de the proporty or

the Is! ceti lord to your agency;

1t and its contanta

ans not to be

distributed outside your agency.

ster

4

PREE IS MI

SEIZATISE

NH 50953

DocId: 32330794 Page 6

---

