# 124-90089-10240

## Page 1

124-90089-10240

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90089-10240

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

100-344127-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

DEPT. OF STATE

FROM:

DOS

TO:

TITLE:

DATE :

10/08/1953

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

ROLANDO MASFERRER

VISAS REFUSAL OF NONIMMIGRANT VISA TO ROLANDO

ARCADIO MASFER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

NH 50953

2

DocId: 32330205

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FBI

FORM DS-682

8-1-50

CONFID

AL

PL

ONV-127

TO: Department of State

MIONS MEN

Received from the State Dupartnes

Mroush Liaison. champels?.

Datele -15-53

X440

ANDUM

Date: October 8, 1953

FROM: AMEMBASSY, Habana

SECRET

SUBJECT: VISAS:

Refusal of Nonimmigrant Visa to Rolando Arcadio MASFERRER y

Rojas

REF

Section 212(a)(28)(C) Immigration and Nationality Act

The Embassy, on August 13; 1953, refused a nonimmigrant visa to

• Rolando Arcadio MASFERRER y Rojas under the provisions of the referenced

Section of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

Reports contadned in the Embassy'a conficentlal files, as well as

those of a controlled American source and of the Legal Attache, identify

the subject as a former member of the Communist Party. He is said to

Have been dismissed from the Party on August 27, 1945, following publi

"JIEMPO EN CUBA"

of an article critical

dat the en to the someet newspaper "Hoy" as a ".. collaborator

with the enemies of the people, with North American monopolistic.

imperialist capital.."

A CAS report of November 4, 1947, describes Sr. Masferrer as pro-

Russian, pro-Bolshevik and an advocate of the Marxist Revolution. He

in the same report, further reported to have stated, as late as

Aorta 13, 1947, that he was personally a bellover in Marist principles.

• confidential

inter office memorandum of September 21g 1951, relates

to reports to the effect that Masferrer had not lost his basic Com

munist ideology, despite his break with the Cuban Communist Partido

Socialista Popular®

1948,

In accordance with the Department's Circular Airgram of April 6,

8:35 a.Mo, the following biographical

data is submitted:

I. NAME: Rolando Arcadip WASTERRER

2. DATE OF BIRTH:

SiFy 100-344127-0

January 121918

INDEXED - 51

19009

10-0

3.

PLACE OF BIRTH: Holguin, Oriente,

Cuba

28

4• NATIONALITY: Cuban

SCO

5. ISSUING AUTHORITY

AND

PLACE

OF ISSUANCE OF PASSPORT:

Ministry

of State, Habana,

Cuba

All OF StAtE DoptiS INtO 15

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASH ON TION AND/OR:

DECLASSIT FD PER E

thEIR LETTER

STD 10-81

RELEASE US CIA INFORMATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

FBI, UNFORKATION CONTAINGE

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FOR X/ies. 8. 80v

ERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1052 - 211047 HERE IN

BRACKETS IN 1.0

DATE 5/5/94

IS UNCLASSTO

KB3-19-98

7TH 50953 DoCTO: 32330205

Page 2

---

