124-10287-10403

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

6/4/2015

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10287-10403
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —97-4474-290, 291
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC,MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 04/14/1966
PAGES: i
SUBJECTS :
MIRR, ASSOC, PLAN, ATTACK, SOVIET VESSEL
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/25/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS : INC ADMIN PAGE, LHM, MEMO,RGM

v9

HW 50953 Docid:32305273 Page 1


4-3 (Rov. 1-27-66)

CONRDEN TIE: =

DECODED COPY
MAIRGRAM © CABLEGRAM RADIO — TELETYPE

pen et
ae
BIEL
ais 9,

( .
MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA,

R=69
URGENT 20-66 1247 PM
TO DYRECTOR

FROM MIAML 2015h5

1S = CUBA, NEUTRALITY MATTERS,

REBUTEL APRIL 19 LAST.
ON APRIL 17 LAST, ORLANDO BOSCH, "GUAJIRO", AND WM = 639mS,
DROVE TO NAPLES, SURVEYED THE AIRPORT AREA, AND BOSCH APPROVED
NAPLES AS DEPARTURE POINT. Oe Mw)

QUE TO FLIGHT TRAINING COMMITMENTS OF MiM=$39-S WITH
RIDDLE AIRLINES, MIAMI, IT HAS BECOME NECESSARY FOR BOSCH
| TO TEMPORARILY POSTPONE RAID UNTIL IT CAN BE FITTED INTO
INFORMANT'S SCHEDULE AT RIODLE WHERE HE HAS RECENTLY OBTAINED
EMPLOYMENT. MM = 639=S HAS BEEN INSTRUCTED IMMEDIATELY dd)
NOTIFY MIAMI FURTHER DEVELOPMENTS. U,. S, CUSTOMS notirico.&)
neo 12a by by

RECEIVED? 1:26 PM HL

Fy

_ hp ———
iy ‘si oO) 4 / - eB APR 21 1958
a. 3 X
ee ff ’

pails iia
if ? 3 =u] & —
If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be'disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau’s cryptographic systems.

HW 50953 Docid:32305273 Page 2


FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

x

FBI
Date: 4/14/66

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

View AIRTEL REGISTERED
(Priority)
“ 70: Director, FBI (97-4474)
FROM: SAC, Miami (105-2855)(P)

~
© yovnaento INSURRECCIONAL DE
RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

(MIR) a
— 7
nee Miami) Sb6y pore
- ‘n)
ReBuairtel 4/4/66, _ a

Enclosed are 12 copies LHM dated and captioned as
above. Copies furnished locally to INS, CIA, G-2, State Dept.
Af (Cuban Affairs), Coast Guard, Border Patrol, NISO, OSI,

a ate USAFAD, FAA and Secret Service.

238 = "MM T-1 is[-639-s.]Q (WD

aay fa 7 y)

BN MM T~2 (JEQQ i

: MM T-3 is MM-635-S,

!

The LHM is classified Co

idential since | it contains
info(so classitied by cra.|

Shove Joe
ee / DIA ae bons He SCC
tere <n tie Su. :

- 3 + Bureau (Etic.
1 - Miami
oh
pes pee",
RQ BIC

1a) ca,./

ge & Gs Cin Afi es

EM ET : ye
dm 4-3-97 tie

Sent

—_

IA

Approved: Per

TEs

ShecialAgesf in Charge BE i

HW 50953 Docid:32305273 Page 3


FD-36 (Rev. 8-22-64)

x
FBI
Date:

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)
Se aetna agp gan pega sega ga gga anche gate ieee ee seco yHgsegeepee eee eaeeeueie
MM 105-2855

For info of aoreau, [Cra memo 3/18/66 containing
reference to report that_BOSCH said he purchased weapons from a
JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO it is noted the only weapons obtained
by FERNANDEZ (MM-635-S) for BOSCH were reported in mylet 5/28/65
to Bureau with LHM attached. That communication indicates the
MIRR claims to have acquired during period 5/7-12/65 one .57
mm recoilless rifle, 2% pounds plastic explosive known as C-4,
and one or more M-1 time delay devices] Ger ‘"

For confidential info of the Bure au, MM-635-S acted
as intermediary for BOSCH, and upon his request, in obtaining
these weapons which were readily available in Miami. (Sqff¥j’

u)

leo ure,

On 4/11/66 MM-635-S advised he has not obtained ad- id
ditional weapons or explosives for BOSCH, but has indicated to ay AY
BOSCH, for purpose of remaining in his good graces and aware aM
of some of his plans, that he is in a position to obtain ad~<*

ditional such supplies, if needed. S<L)(¢)(U} wets nye Wy pA
fe

' &: 4/11/66) ITA, and [FRANK ALLATORE, USAFAD
\ aavices their agenci erational interest in the matter
{reported by CIA.) On the same eof STANLEY SCHACHTER advised iQ

Customs is invéStigating the infofreported by Cla¥in his
3/18/66 report \Oa)GQ( u)

Tp

Berccess Gs st nd trang)
he 4,

BSTAY Cassi figco Fert AZ,
Ror Addlock #21326

no active investigation (concerning the matter reported by CIA
As Bureau is aware, {BOSCH is in process of planning another
raid, utilizing services of MM-639-S. Tentative au) are for

Pursuant to Bureau instructions, Miami is a y-

this raid to take place Sunday, 4/17/66 .](%

u
) 4 ISOCX)
Miami is maintaining close contact with Hy-639-s] and
U.S. Customs re this matter, and Bureau will be advised of any w
further pertinent info. ; BRACKETED | 0 PR
=2- Qacsren Reis brlqiune .
qoBrddlge] Pays2ENahi]ax_

Approved: Sent M Per
Special Agent in Charge

HW 50953 DocId:32305273 Page 4
