# 124-10221-10299

## Page 1

124-10221-10299

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10221-10299

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR-SEE TITLE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, AL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE: CR 134-25251-56X

DATE: 09/28/1976

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT_ TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

08/17/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

NN 50953 DocId: 32340906 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 Rev. 2-14-74)

F B I

MATION CONTAINED

FORE 231

COURS/MOORE SHOWS

Transmitathe following in

MOSHES

Date: *

9/28/76

(Type in plaintext or code)

APROPRIATE AGENC

AND

AND ONE

ADVISE

ROUTINGP

SETT

) 07

12/273

ENDIOR

INFORMATION

CIA

Красото.

DOM

REASOATEOIM II,

ECTOR,

FBI (134-25251)

10 - 2021

199k-

FROM

SAC, MALBANY (105-11938

DECLASSIFIC

RELEASE

IN THIS

EXCEPT

om

SUBJECTE

MANUEL LEONARDO DE

ARMAS

S - CUBA (C)

PEGISTRATION ACT

Ice's made for SSCA revien

2100: ALBANY (S(M)

1S6A5

ReSAlbanya

Irtel of 9/27/76.(U)

ON

249

Enclosed for the Bureau 'is the original and

copies of a letterhead memorandum

dated and captioned

sIx

as

that he entent does ete of 9/21/16 at

Enclosed forNiami are

infields

Sona copy of the above described InM. (Spies and For chicago Ca)

LHM

_Contents of the LIM

are self-explanatory and are

*being

furnished to the Bureau

for transmittal to the CIA at

PPs

the Headquarters level. (U)

, 2, 4, 5,

Agents who conducted the interview were SA's

7, 9; 10, 19

DEYO and JAMES J. ROSE.

(0)

12, 001,45,

This IHM has been classified "Secret" in that it

17,18,19

• reflécts information concerning the Cuban Intelligence Serviced j

as

well as a possible double agent situation.

25,26,

29,30.

gation

a priority statusana

case will be expeditious

FBIHQ.

1124252563

24 ĐCT -1 1978

(7)

Bureau

(Encs.

Viam1(105-23589)

Chicago

(Enc.

Albany:

1555

54.82

Declassily

CLASS

REASON

DATE

IT 50953

DonTd: 32340906

Page

2

tate ate of poola!

1figat

bite

---

## Page 3

SECRET

4/04/81

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

8.

CL

REASO

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer

File No.

albany, New York 7(818141

Classified isy

oscklicl

CLASS. &

September 28,

EXT

1976

REASON-FCIM

BY 92-4201 1 0-

Declassifi of: OADR 7/6/53

DATE OF REVIEW

%20-q

*MANUEI LEONARDO DE ARMAS *

59802

S/m)

la Fria Release

Information contained in this memorandum

is considered

secret unless otherwise noted herein. )

on September 17, 1976, MANUEL LEONARDO DE ARMAS, by

request, voluntarily appeared at the Utica Resident Agency

of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. (FBI) He was advised

Joof the FBI's interest and jurisdiction in internal security

ma intere on his tation ones a the appearents

furnished the following information which was recorded with-

ais knowledge and consent. dol

SINGA BETANCOURT

VENEIL:

DE ARMAS departed Utica, New York, in March,

1975 for the purpose of obtaining employment in the Miami, Florida

He subsequently gained employment as an investigator with

a firm named Preventive Security Service. DE ARMAS explained that

his grandmother presently resides in Caracas, Venezuela and that

he left the United States for Caracas on Ogtober 2, 1975 to visit

her.

the 26 year old daughter of INcA

currently residing

D'ARMAS stated

that MARIA has been involved in/ the Leftist Movement

in Venezuela along with 4 brothers whose last names are GARCIA-PONCE

who are considered the Leftist elite of that country. DE ARMAS

pointed out that his primary reason for traveling to Caracas was

to place himself in a

position where he could be of assistance to

the United States Government. He stated that in conversations with?

i columbia:

(SAM)

DE ARMAS

returned to Miami on October 4, 1975 and discussed

ECLASSI

ASE TITOREATION CONTAINED

WARDIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCHEL WHDRE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

the overall possibility of establishing contact with the Cuban

Government with the FBI, but in view of the vagueness of his

statements, there was little response from that agencys

He then

Ihis document

SECRET

CIA tA&s NDe DENSCTION TO

recommendation DeltAggnatua lotsAb/OR,

12)

the FBI.

the FBI and is

SASEOGPREY: OfFORMATION

It and its contith

distributed

outside

CLASSIFIED

-25 2015

agei

OCV•

TONY NUMBER

LIOTION

AND 24

Im 6r25:4

SLOKSH

7-31-9

NH 50953 DocId: 32340906 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

RE :

ANUEL LEONARDO DE ARMAS A CS

ARASIOS,FERNANDEZ whom be described as an Assistant

to the President of Venezuela andfa CIA source(s) This information

came to his attention from a MINota

"whom DE ARMAS

described as a functionary of the Venezuelan General Counsel

functioned out of Caracas.

in Miami, and also from one RICARDO NORALE NAVARENT WhO VENELL

However,

DE ARMAS Claimed thr

the information concerning this individual is common know eage CuBA

in certain circles. A second individual, ORTANDO CARCIA VASQUEZ.

was described as a Cuban National in charge

of the personal

sècurity of the President of Venezuela and(also a CIA source, 5)

and apparently in charge of security for high levels of

Venezuelan Government in general.

VASQUEZ, according to

DE ARMAS, established a cover for NAVARETTE

who is also working for

the FBI When

asked how he knew this, DE ARMAS claimed that information

is well known in Miami amoung Cuban emigre groups as well

in Cuba itself.

He claimed that VASQUEZ has

a target of the

Cuban Government for the last fifteen years.

tape was completed to the

satisfaction of his Cuban

Intelligence corroboraters and he described the finished product

as a "bombshell". The tape was then submitted to FIDEL CASTRO

for review and approval:

CASTRO reviewed the film prior to its

submission to the Political Bureau and after CASTRO's review it

was sent back to their group for revision. A number of cuts

were made in the video tape which is apparent when viewed in

that the tape in part lacks continuity.

Reference to ERASTOS FERNANDEZ

and ORLAND GARCIA

VASQUEZ was deleted from the video tape.

The purpose of these

PASCUAL!

suts was yavoid any stress in Venezuelan-Cuban relations.

appears to have been the case officer handling

"DE ARMAS, told DE ARMAS that CASTRO desired to speak to him

after reviewing the tape.

await a summons from CASTRO for interview.

DE ARMAS was placed on standby to

FrOm PASUAL Hung morning DE ARMAS received a telephone cal:

torming him that he would be right over t

his hotel room and that cAstilwas ready for his interview.

At about 2:30 a.m. PASCUAL

ked him up and drove him to the

Plaza of the Revolution. They entered the building directly

behind the statute of JOSE MARTIN

floor office occupied by CASTRO.

proceeded to a fifth

DE ARMAS' interview with CASTRO was brief and to

the point. CASTRO was sympathic towards DE ARMAS' position

but spoke as if the impetus for the press conference came from

SECRET

16

991-109idd

NH 50953 DocId: 32340906 Page 4

---

## Page 5

RE :

MANUEL LE

ARDO DE ARMAS *

SECRET

$ (м)

DE ARMAS and that for his own reasons CASTRO wanted a number

. of revisions made in the tape.

CASTRO's attitude implied that he

was permitting the DE ARMAS news release and pointed

put

that

that release was purely voluntary on DE ARMAS' part.

DE ARMAS recalled, that again on his own, he made a

statement at the beginning of the press conference in which he

remarked that the statements he was making were voluntary.

His

interview with CASTRO lasted for approximately twenty minutes and

he expressed a completely willing and positive attitude to CASTRO

in the release of the press conference.

He did not object in any

way to the revisions which CASTRO had found necessary.

DE ARMAS'

impression from his interview with CASTRO was that CASTRO attempted

to convey the impression to him that he or the Cuban Government were

doing DE ARMAS a favor in permitting him to make the press release.

At this point in the interview, DE ARMAS explained

that he did not feel that the information that he furnished in

the press release was of any great damage to the United States

Government in that it contained many obvious untruths anc

misinformation. As an example, he purposely identified Mr.

FRED DUNCAN as an employee of the CIA when he is actually

an employee of DEA

He reiterated that his motivation throughout

all of this

activity was to ingratiate himself with the Cuban

Government in order to place himself in a position whereby

he could be of assistance to the United States Government. DE ARMAS

accepted full responsibility for all

his actions as .

noted

throughout this entire affair.

ha):

DE"ARMAS noted that he had made some comments concerning.

one FELIX MARTINEZ, whom he identified as a Cuban exile who left

Cuba sometime during the revolution and is connected with the

Anti-CASTRO news media.

DE ARMAS did not know MARTINEZ 'and

was simply briefed on his activities by Cuban Intelligence, which

information was reflected in his news release. He also referred to

a POLIEO (phonetic) in the same context. He recalls having

identified MARTINEZ and POLIFO asl

5 He referred.!

deleted troll the press

release.

NAVARETTE, according to

the case of DR

ORLAND

ARMAS, was a State witness in

DE ARMAS stated that the press release contained comments

concerning the FBI in Miami, Florida, and specifically about an

individual named DWYER who is well known in Miami and who is

SECRET

17

991-0589

NH 50953 DocId: 32340906 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

VANURI LEOWARDO DE ARMAS * C*(MI

In regards to the ROLANDO MASFERRER murder, DE ARMAS claimed

that Abdala considered MASFERRER as an obstacle to Its efforts and

had formulated plans for his assassination.

The possibility of

planting C-4 plastic explosive in his automobile was explored.

After a number of discussions, of which DE ARMAS was privy,

someone in Abdala made the statement to forget about the

plans to kill MASFERRER. DE ARMAS stated that shortly thereafter

MASFERRER was killed when his automobile was bombed.

After the

bombing,

Mr. ROBERT MILLS of the. FBI Miami, approached DE ARMAS and

inquired as to any information he may have

as to the bombing and whether

he was personally involved in it. DE ARMAS advised MILLS of the discussions

within ABDAlA concerning the possible assassination of MastERleR but

denied any direct knowledge 'of MASFERRER's murder.

Cuban Intelligence were aware that DE ARMAS was affiliated

with Abdala and they also believed that he had direct knowledge of

the MASFERRER Killing. As a result, during his debriefings, DE ARMAS

attributed the receipt of plastic explosiye C-4 from BOB MILLS whom

he purposely identified/asja CIA Officer.

¿Then he claimed that he gave U

the explosives to Abdala with the implication that Abdala was

responsible for MASFERRER's murder. (

VISA

DE ARMAS claimed that an individual named MA

ESNT

although claiming to be an anti-Castro Cuban in the Miami,

ITorida

ärea, is a close personal friend of CASTRO and RAUL CASTRO.

He is

the director of an anti-Castro magazi

Get the feeling in

Havana is

that he may be working for CASTRO.

CABA

The bombing of WOBA Broadcaster EMITIO

also discussed with DE ARMAS. DE ARMAS claimed that shortly after

furnishing his press release he was naturally branded as a traitor

by the Cuban Community in Miami.

MOULION took the position

publicly that the full story concerning DE ARMAS had not come to

light and thereafter statements concerning his treason were unfounded

at the time. About 3 days after his defense of DE ARMAS,

his automobile was bombed with the result that MOULION

lost both his legs. DE ARMAS had no knowledge of the bombing

of MOULION's car.

sentiment is that

the bombing

of the leaders of the anti-Castro movement in Miami, had now resorted to

radical terrorist action, fearful as many other anti-Castro Cubans

are, that the United States will resume diplomatic relations with

Cuban Intelligence, specifically MOISES and MIKI,

FILIPIO RIVERIA's group was responsible for the MOULION bombing

SECRET.

29

991-109007

NH 50953 DocId: 32340906

Page 6

---

## Page 7

15774;

RE :

_MANUEL

LEONARDO " DEY ARMAS

cuperat

DEVARMAS also stated that Cuban Intellägence considered

RAMON

ORZCS CRESPO instrumental in the bombing of the Cuban fishing

vessel

oft the bahamas which precipitated.his

DE ARMAS explained that all of the information concerning the

above bombing was forthcoming from conversations with Cuban-Intelligence

or participation in any of the above described bombings or other

bombings related to Cuban matters in the US or abroad.

He placed a

Intelligence and attributed that to

a censee netvork working in Maimi for

the CASTRO Government.

le advised that that network furnishes the Cubar

Government,

of days.

Eyback Fron Mans or ly factory operations within a matter

Concerning ORIANDO BOSCLy aKe Cuban Government feels

that the United States In sohe way is protecting him, and considers

the dominican republic as being dominated by the United states. (SeM)

ARMAS felt that he had accomplished his objective of

hingelf in a position of trust within Cuban Intelligence

"He wished to make this a matter of record with American

agence as well as to place himself

His only

Is that he be advised as quickly as possible as to his possible

ation by the United States Government. WHe stated that he

directed by Cuban Intelligence to perform any acts

chan those noted above on their behalf.

The Cuban

gende officers that he identified never identified

set

ves as being with the DGI but only described themselves as

bein

Or

Cuban Intelligence.

DE ARMAS was never shown any credentia

cuments which would identify them as such.

*(u)

BECKEL

SECRET

30*

991-109dd

NH 50953 DocId: 32340906 Page 7

---

