# 124-90137-10324

## Page 1

124-90137-10324

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90137-10324

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-120213-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/03/1963

2

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

JOAQUIN PALACIO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953 DooId: 32337558

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

(u)

NOTE. FOR SAC. NEU VORK:

For data regarding subject's wife you are referredo

to your file 138-2644

Contact established sources

to further

identify the subject and to ascertain wnether there is any basis

for allegation thet he

egation that he do cuben gent

Unless these

inquiries

develop data wnich would tend to substantiate the allegation,

no further inquiry should be conducted due to the lack of

specific data regarding this agent allegation. As soon as a

reply.

s receruce from cla it will be promptly forwarded t

our In connection with your inquiries aiso determine throug

established sources whether subject's wife is still employed

at the inited Nations and, if so, determine her position there.

Juan Maria Diaz is subject of your

file 105-5961.

Unclosed are

two copies of CIA letter 4/23/5311

NOTE:

In 3/53 an untested CIA source in the Dominican Republic

reportedly was told lu an administrative emilovee

Khar subject,

& cuban national,

was suspected of

being a Cuban agent.

basis for this allegation was furnishecy

We have conducted

extensive inquiries on Juan Maria Diaz

father of subject's wie.

He was a leading jigure in Mo in anti-trujillo activities.

[CIA

classified secret as

containsdato received

which was so classified.

SECRET

-7038

HM 50953

DooId:32337558

Page 2

---

