# 124-90089-10219

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

124-90089-10219

100-344127-24

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 10/09/1959

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

ROLANDO MASFERRER

ROLANDO ARCADIO MASFERRER ROJAS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : LHM

v9.1

Date:

2/23/201

124-90084-10220

---

## Page 2

ROLANDO ARCADIO MASFERRER ROJAS

MM I-1, who has furnished reliable information in

the past, advised on October 4, 1959, that JORGE MECALLING

(phonetic) 1360 SW 17th Street, Miami, stated he was' working

with Colonel SANCHEZ MOSQUERA, who will lead an expédition

from Miami, Florida, against Cuba. MECALLING estimates the

proposed expedition may leave during October, 1959. *(M)

MECALLING advised MM T-1 that he and SANCHEZ

MOSQUERA recently went to New York where they met the

brother-in-law of FULGENCIO BATISTA, ROBERTO FERNANDEZ

MIRANDA, who offered them $120,000 to engage in sabotage

activity in Cuba. FERNANDEZ had the money with him, put

it in a desk, but said they could have the money only if

they agreed to allow ROLANDO MASFERRER, former Cuban

Senator residing in Miani, to be in charge of the operation.

Both MECALLING and SANCHEZ MOSQUERA refused to work with

or under MASFERRER, and thereafter left New York and

returned to Miami without the money. MECALLING advised

MM T-1 he subsequently learned that this money was given

tc. MASFERRER: for the purpose of buying airplanes and

equipping them with phosphorus bombs to destroy the sugar

harvest in Cuba. XM)

MM T-1 advised that MECALLING did not state what

anti-CASTRO group would be used by SANCHEZ MOSQUERA for

MM T-1 advised that MECALLING is a former Cuban

Senator from Camaguay, Cuba and appears to be a man of

intelligence and reliability. am)

PROPERTY OF THE FBI - This memorandum is loaned

to you by the FBT and neither it nor its contents are to be

distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

2.

DocId: 32330185 Page 2

---

