# 124-90062-10010

## Page 1

124-90062-10010

JFK Assassination System

Idenuification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90062-10010

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-88511-23

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

BN

HQ

DATE: 06/06/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

MARVIN KANTOR

PHILLIP GERALD ROSEMBLUM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF USA, CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO, INC RPT, REFERRED TO USA

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32327312 Page 1

---

## Page 2

9

5/

STATES GO%

Memoran

TO

FROM

lEgat. Bonn (105-1222)

6-6-61

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPI

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

q-/

SUBJECT:

PHILLIP GERALD ROSENBLUM

IS - R - DENMARK

Jch»

Re Born letter 330-61 and london letter 4-26-61.

*. /

Enclosed for the additional information of the Bureau

is one copy of a Secret report dated 3-28-61 prepared by FRANK P.

DIERICKX of the 513th Military Intelligence Group.

This report

reflects the results of the interrogations of the Subject by DIERICKX.

It was received under Secret classification from the Collection

Branch,

Europe.

Intelligence Division, Headquarters, United States Army,

(U) DECLASS PER ARMY ON 10-22-97

Mr o

the Embassy has

Informed this office that the Subject did in fact

contact the Danish Embassy in Bonn shortly after his call at the

Embassy and

conversation with Mr. AARON COLEMAN.

According to

She Danish Embassy Informed the Subject that he would be

liable to arrest if he returned to Denmark, Mr.

has alsos

informed me that a member of his staff observed the Subject in the

area of the American Housing Development in Bad Godesberg. Germany

on approximately May 1, 1961.

Mr • AARON COLEMAN, Chief of the Consular Affairs Section

of the Embassy, has also informed me that he had observed the Subject at

approximately the same time and that the Subject was then engaged in

contacting American residents in the project in an effort to sell

mutual fund bonds.

97.4616

SID/PER

- 1-15-98 (JFK)

pq

GIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASCIGOATION AND/OR,

RELEASE US CIA INFORMATION

EXCETOT BRACKETS

3 oN this

IN THIS DOCUMENT (S0PV0-16-22

In order to establish, If possible, the precise current

residence of the Subject, this office is requesting the West German

Security Agency - Bundesamt fuer Verfassungsschutz (BFV) to attempt

to locate him and the Bur Call be advised of the results of this

ENCLOSURE

LACHED S

classified o SO&MACIGA

P

4 - Bureau

1 - Bonn

GAV : HB

(5)

MC

T - 23

105-S851-23

REC. 16

SI JUN 8 1961

1 Photo made of

ench: 6116/61

2c It y Photos.

I suel serit t

It tros by nis

Ed clueles fei

8 JUN 201961

SEC.

SECRE AR

NH 50953 DocId: 32327312 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINE

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIGIED

DATE 2509 4.81

ROSE LENs Phillip Gorola-(5)

2OB:

POB:/

29 October. 1935

St. Louis, Missouri

28 March 1961

GB

31-1404

HE 090 891

On 25 March 1961, this agent hold a discussion with Phillip dereld ROSENBLUM

in Roón 103, Savoy Hotel, Wiesenhuettenstrasse L2, Frankfürt/Main.

friend, Ursula Buesfeld,

was also present.

SUBJECT's girl-

night in Transfurt while

SUBJECT and Bussfeld had stopped over

enroute from Heilbronn to Dortmund.

this agent, SUBJ80T and Bussfeld was substantially as follows:

The discussion between

agents

As I told you yesterdey, I have no objections 1f Ursula/participates

this discussion

metter entirely up to you.

However, you may have some objections, and I leave the

Jerman-

SUBJACT: No, I have no objection if Ursula is here.

Agent

Denmark

You will recall that after you were interrogated, I mentioned to

you that ve would investigate your caso and that this investigation would

take two or three monthe.

SUB-JBCT:

Yes.

Regniti

en

Well, thede two months are past, and we dig conduct an investigation

don't know je Major orinore toda

Kuna, or note fut ve did

you that f contacted Mashonal

attier He sorted an

Kum 005 0 800 thin that nhook me up a

aches with it your contacte with tan

Pastond popethagen. Moreovor, he stated you discussed this matter 1u

the presence of Unsula

That is why l had no objections if Ursula is

present during this discussion, since the knows about the whole matter

anyway:

Tes,

Kumn.

I diacussed this with Ursula when I got back, and she reminded

had forgotten about it.

You will also remember that during the interrogation I told you I was hot

primartly Interested in obtaining evidence for your prosecution but rether

in the aposition of information concerning the Soviet Intelligence Ber

vice - how thriatchkov spotted you, recruited you, what ascienments he: gave

you, and what pay you

received from him. That is still the way I feel, but

my investigation elso tool me to Copenhagen, where of course I had liatoon

about this case with the Danish authoritles; The Danes know about the

whola cass + I gave them a copy of my report - and they feel entirely dif

ferent about your activities in Copenhagen.

prosecuting you.

They are more intsrested in

As a matter of fact, they told ne thàt if you so luch as

set one foot over the bordor into Denmart, they will arrest you and try you

to espionage:

consider it

This Infomation may be shockle to you, but I think if you

- gave it, to you.

COPY 3 OF 6 COPIES

PAGE

1 OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FRANK P. DIERICKY, 513th MT Group

*SSG -E REG. No

25.1

NH 50953

D001d: 32327312

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

20 MAR 1961

ROSENBLUM, Phillip Gerald (S)

DOB: 29 October 1935

POB: St. Louis, Missouri

HE 090 891

was in Copenhagen? Well, time was valuable. Also, when I needed money, and this

you won't believe. I am somewnat resourceful in time of need. Whenever I got short

of money, which was on three occasions, I took a trip to Travemunde, Germany.

where they had a gambling cacino, Need I say more? I have a system, even though

not infallible, that has paid off opportunately at least, to say the very least. It

is a

simple system.

I merely play the same numbers. For example, you can take a

series of six numbers and play it 21 times in a row....I am quite aware that statistics

have proved that no system has ever been devised that can beat roulette and baccarat,

but thie oyatem has always performed for me in time of need.... Nile Prahm was with

me the tarat time.

honey playing pool.

At want we van about 150 dollars plays orie a moke:

1 won 200 and some dollars from Harry

riend of mine now.

He lives at' Beatevej i. He le a supervicor for Olivetti, With

the money I won, I bought the car. The car cost a little more than $500. 00. 1

bought it from Steve/stanford, an American who was a representative for Libby's Can

Company. He is back in California; he lives in San Eranciaco. I also won about

$400. 00 on another occasion--at Travemunde--with Murray Brown, an American who

do a Writer.

went the thizd time about March of April 1960 with three people: Murray

gown; Marvin fantor, who in from New. York, studying Ruedian and Danish at the fell

oniversity of Coperhagen; the third was Tom--I can't think of his last name:

1435 - 193k

"The car was stolen from me in October or November of 1959. I paid

$500. 00 for

the

car, but it was insured for more-actually for about $1, 500.00, but

I settled for $1, 000:00

Cantor-

It was insured with the Zurich Insurance Company."

Travels

aky

"I have visited many countries over here:

1F rance.

A number of times. May 1957, twlce in '59, and

twice in 160. The purpose--touriém.

England. *57. Passing through actually.

"Holland: One time in '57. Tourism. And in *59 on business,

when I was working for Mainland. I had an agent in Holland. I'd have to check his

name. It's a very difficuli name. Me was a Venezuelan of Dutch descent:

"Belgium. In 157. Passed through on way to Germany: My ship

went to Le Harve, and then I went by train through Belgium, Germany and on to

Denmark.

FRANK P. DIERICKX, 513th Ml Group

cor 3

PAGE 4

OF.

OF lal.__PAGES

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32327312 Page 4

---

