# 124-10326-10099

## Page 1

124-10326-10099

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10326-10099

HQ

62-99724-8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

KEAY

TO: BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE: 03/09/1954

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

BUREAU SOURCE 100 (ANGLETON)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

N 50953

DooId: 32313171

Page

1

2

---

## Page 2

5068

STANDARD FORM NO. 6A

Office Merr

MUm . UNITED

GOVERNMENT

Tolson

Ladd_

TO

MR.

4.

HELMONT

SECRE

FROM

DATE:

March 9, 1954

Are Belmone

, Nichols

* Clegs

V. P. Reali

Glavin

Harbo

10/539

Rosea

Tracy

Based

Mohr

SUBJECT:

Declassity

8.41 788-1826

Troeter

Winterrowd

JAMES ANGLETON

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Tele. Room -

ALL INHERNATION COMA

Holloman

MERLIN 15 LIASSURE

Miss Gandy -

EXCEPT WHELL SHOWS

OTHERWISE

As you know, the captioned individual has been providing

the Bureau with considerable information, much of it being of a

very sensitive nature.

It has been noted that in transmitting

communications to Angleton some memo rando have been sent to the

Director of CIA, Attention: James Angleton, in care of

S

Other memoranda dealing with

been directed to James Angleton, in care of

matter shave (5)

In order that the Bureau would have a uniform procedure

in transmitting mate to Angleton,

the Liaison Agent discussed

the matter with Angleton on March 5, 1954.

Angleton requested

Pinat the above request was berne made with the deprobal of Allen

that in the future mail being directed to him be transmitted to

the Director of CIA,

"Attention: James Angleton."

Angleton stated

Dulles, the Director of CIA.

. He further indicated that he desired

the above method of desianation in connection with correspondence

matters. ellith regard to Bureau (5)

reports

concerning

matters, Angleton aduised that suchs

material is being retained under his personal supervision and

control.

Angleton also asked when the Bureau found it necessary

to disseminate information to him and other agencies, that his

identity not be revealed to the other agencies. Xle explained that

Attached hereto for your approval is

a Memorandum to

• all section Chiefs.

SJP:1W'

Attachment

•1 - Mr. Wannall

- Reading Room

IN This PEGUMENT EXCEPT Bnacker

LEE - 8-7-98

RECORDED - 36

60 MAN 1 9 1954

SECRET

NH 50953 DooId:32313171 Page 2

---

