126-40284-40028:
JPK Assassination System Dates 4/14/20
Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10281-10028
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 62-80750-4563
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SHRODER, R. I.
TO: ROSEN
TITLE:
DATE: 03/15/1967
PAGES: 2
SUBIECTS :
[Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATEOF LASTREVIEW: — 09/11/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS :

w¥'50953 Docra:32302308 Page 1


:

er eee ee

UNITED STATES GON : : 7 > Poin -_

a ” GON A E * DeLeach 1
\NMENT Aw ee

M emoranaym

TO : Mr . (iden ow bucks

om gank ‘ATE: March 15, 1967
. bee i - Mr. Rosen weer
FROM . Shroder 1 = Mr; Malley fein
o 1l- ur. Shroder Gandy
spieeT 1l- * Seiraeen
| SUBJECT: UNIST PARTY OF a 1 Sullivan

a
classffy cit OADR “ ffas n

“This, relates to [ozo fh re ved. from CIA in- N :
dicating “the, possibil ty that. the uela

‘attempt to, kidni °
No. investigation, ; is..being conducter y us ani appr o-(s) Ny ‘
dissemination has previously been nade (5 .
veg oe pone ah NG

Py 7 i
\ At our suggestion, finger~ QO |
i

? “3 -
VA “_ prints ry id. photographs, have, Been obtained and were fiirnished se"
Ny, (syto SA W...0s, Cregar by. Mss. n 3/10/67, This

“) Material is "part, 0: this € foF possible use in the

pF “hl event of, notos

Z photOmrabhe and fingerprints are of the
AY’ ee 1a
ee _ Ty. a Pe,
AT ere €09H 2

matter h: been HRS, with the Identifi-

1ou OBS NTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY Cray ' IF yaee
INTERNAL SECURITY = ica Irae BH
ase y

(ie E DNAPING

‘sent directly to SA Carl Volker, Room 4125, 1B,
fingerprints may be promptly classified and

a. Sougeceay S S&S
YS Bees
Ng 38 Bei Hy

Sid

RW 50953 DocId:32302308 Paye 2

|
F
'
i:
i
