124-10257-10307|

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

11/21/20

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10257-10307
RECORD SERIES: MX
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 80-10-25
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG, MX
TO: FILE
TITLE:
DATE: 01/13/1978
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
LHO, POST-RP, TRA, TRIP TO MEXICO 9/26/63
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION =
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

Secret

1A

‘Redact
12/10/1997

APPROVAL OF CIA

41

NW 52333 DocId:32192373

Page 1


6

2

@

ATTACKS AGAINST THE FBI

are: 1-13-78

REPLY TO
ATTN OF:

LEGAT

suasecT:

FILE (80-10)

To:

As shown in my memorandum 0

identified some of
which were released on 12-7-77
attracKed the attention of at
Mexican newspaper in Washingto!
Ambassador's Assistant, was
weekend and brought back with
which had been furnished to hit
represent the 524 page report
BRUEYS at Dallas on 12-8-63.
relates to the Mexican trave
there have been no articl
in the Mexican press base

1
es 0
don

£

In addition, on 1-5-7
to this office a set of docume
by his Headquarters which appe
file material pertaining to th
investigation. At his suggest:
were made for temporar S
and the set furnished

For the time being, a
placed in a Bulky Exhibit Enve

that it will be available for

EGRET

in

y
by

YITED STATES GOVERNMENT

memorandum

£ 12-13-77,

the Bureau
the materials in the KENNEDY investigation

as those which apparently
least one reporter from a
nm. Mr. ROBERT DUNN, the
Washington the following

him three separate sections
m at the Bureau. These sections
of former SA WARREN C. DE

One section, pages 315 - 359,
of LEE HARVEY OSWALD. To date,
a sensational nature appearing

this material.
s
8, Cre

which had been forwarded

nts

ared to represent raw Bureau
ican aspects of the OSWALD
ion, copies of thés@€ document
ion in the files of this office
1S] returned to him on 1-6-78.

e Mex

11 of this material is being
lope of captioned file so

reference if ne ly
lay tos £8%/mm-

. DB

ynroRttety noon Bectassily cat ona
Peete 7EIN HAS NO-OBJECTION TO
eee Laan DIOR, Et

LP - Vi —

A). 30-10 IN TH Ney O22

T - 105-3702 (OSWALD) ee re

LQ

Some ov
yg wet DEST
Gi 7 eR 7

wings Bonds ‘egu!

CS

gesstsbsseshaststinestes

dase Buy US.Sa lar

Printing Ottien: 1976—241-020/2018

ly on.the Payroll Savings Plan oprionaLronm No. 10
(rev. 7-381
Cea rpen (a crRy 10-116

so10-112
CHO

