124-10225-10186)

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

5/21/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10225-10186
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —105-114543-2ND NR 216
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC,MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: — 10/29/1964
PAGES: 5
SUBJECTS :
JURE, MR, DELIVERY, BOAT, SNFE, ALPHA 66
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/06/1998 ,
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : INC A/T

v9.1
AW 50953

Doclda:32299406 Page 1


asst eeecaune CG ; Mr. Nasca
7)

11/4/64

2. 24 GIA Has No OBIECTION To
OR, |

_ Ateeel 4) Kp h SNL b fe
ty ¥ Gin ebR__o Sy k “ VAT :
es D TFK} WN Tals DOLLA. Ext qo? Aanaler®, |
roe SAC, Mast (105-6249) ae a y fr |
] ~ San Juan -w~ |
OA + fe aS ae 4 9
FROM: Mrector, FRI £105-112698) eps maths |
SUINECT: . SECOMD NATIONAL FRONT p34, Bf, -
OF ESCAMBRAY (SNFE) sired cp LEELA
(OPERATION ALPHA 66) Gaassiited 1) aps
IZ ~ CUBA Seclassity oft OADRZI77
RA - CUBA .
HSVTRALITY MATTERS sal
pares and \
ReMMaintal 10/29/64. Miami furnish inform tion \

fron MM 247-5 to Customs, Immigration and Naturalization aS
Service (INS), Coast Guard,(Central Intelligence Agency corallG-.)(u)

and Co-ordinates for Cuban Affairs locally. Miami resubmit data al
., by airtel with letterhead memorendum attached. q

San Juan furnish the information from M1 847-$ te

“Customs, INS, Coast Guard and lee cr et a
ji cae 8

NOTE: friend of ‘
Miami informant learned from/treasurer of captioned
anti-Castro organization that two good-sized boats which belonged |
to JURE, anti-Castro organization, were delivered to captioned |
anti-Castro organization in Puerto Rico. This transaction may |
pertain to report previously received that[treasurer of captioned eo
s

\

organization was, attempting to_obtain motorboat for use in attack
against British merchant vessel] We are closely following activit

| of captioned organization. Miami did not indicate dissemination ~
| of information dealing with transfer of boats. This_should be done. fi
bes ae oat en tide >
_ VAN: kab 8 f Hen,
7)

(> 105-114543 (JURE)
- A ee

|

@aners 1964

HW 50953 DocId:32299406 Page 2


|
|
10/20/64 |

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

AIRTEL, REGISTERED MATE PCLARSIECATION AND/OR,
Re Ob CLA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. K/} 2-6-9

| TOs DIRECTOR, PBL (105-112028)
FROM: SAC, MIAME (20546248) ¢ P ) 9

“) SUBJECT: SECOND NATIONAL, FRONT :
OF ESCaMBRAY (siwE) ALD TNFG26 1 CONTAR
(OPERATION ALPHA 66) HEREIN JS UMSDaSSH icp
18 - CUBA; BA ~ CUBA; BY te ASS
— veceR Ree aA O00
; ay Bch 9 DEK
On 10/29/64, 1M 847-8, who ie fantlier with Sirs
activities in the Mient area and who has furnished reliable
Anformation in the past, furmished the following information

which he obtained from RUBEN VARELA, close friend of ANTONIO
VECIANA BLANCH, Freasurer of the SNFB, Alpha 66:

» wo fairly good sized boats, which belenged to
HORE, wore delivered by JURE leader MANU, RAY RIVERO to the
\ \QsnrE-Alpha 66. These boats were delivered in Puerto Bico
S Bad AN'TONEO VECIANA was present at the time of delivery.
Nout ig not known whether the boats were surchased or loaned.

EN
bs ce

e~ Ht 847-8 advised on 10/9/64 that VECIANA would

be going to Puerto Rico shortly.

'
X39 As 4¢ appears that VECIANA is now im Puerte Bice,
¥ San juan, ie requested te alert appropriate sources dn order
| ® to provide coverage ef YECHANA"s activities there. For
i additional ingormation of San Juan, (CIA, Mieml, furniehed

MSe AA 2. abe ia)

Wi

WW,

Se

ORIGINAE FILED

2 infornati 10/8/64 to the effect that VECIANA was attempt=

ind tag bo send jeecbrboat for use iu an attack agaiast a reli

ie ga Tastee assh oles
Chonats tithe. ptanned fats (

SIDE FOR vA
CLASSIRICATION eee vi
acTION S <r" > yb

HW 50953 DocId:32299406 Page 3
