# 124-10185-10098

## Page 1

124-10185-10098

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI '

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10185-10098

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-386

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SULLIVAN, W. C.

'TO: DELOACH, C. D.

TITLE:

DATE: 03/07/1970

PAGES: 15

SUBJECT:

CC, CIA ACT, CP, LHO, TRA, WIRETAPPING, CASTRO, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL-

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

• Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

10/30/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

INC 3 MEMO, LIST, 329 OF 344 PAGES NAR

NH 50953 DocId: 32176432 Page 1

---

## Page 2

2

The Attorney, General

'A.

Mintz

(J. B. Hotls)

July 10, 1975

Wanna li

1

1

Director, rB.

Mr

- Mr. R. L. Moore.

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT. COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGINCE ACTIVITIES SSC)

By letter dated May 14,

1975, with attached appendices,

the SSC requested certain Information and documents from the

FBI,

inclosed for your approval and Lowerding soone

Committee aro the original of a memorandum and enclosures which

serve as a response to two of the SSo requests.

copy of this memorandum with enclosures is being

furnished for your records.

Enclosures (40)

62-116395

1 - The Deputy Attorney General

Attention:

*K. W111am 0' Connor

Spectal Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

REC

RLM -mam

4 12 16325

386

3 JUL 21 1975

10.

Рі ді

VN 1082

рім

ME 8 5 55m

SECATS MATERTAL, AYTACHED

We Wilfra

75200M

TELETYPE UNIT E

GPO

NN 70953

Doo1d:32176132

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Э9T8.

800 ang. 10

ALAY 1002 ADiTH*

OsA Sir: D00-N91. 37

UNITED STATES GOVER MENT

Memorandum

(SECRET

TO

The Director

DATE: 3/13/70

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

FROM

SA Sam Papich

SECRET

DECLASSIFIOA

ND/OR

RELEASE OF LA INFURMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

SUBJECT RELATIONS WITH CIA

AS SMITTED

Gma 6-29-94

Reference is made to my letters dated March & and

March 501970In my letter of March 5, 1970. I stated "it

is important to emphasize that the Bureau can also produce

an extensive strot just ded errevances.

It is my under

standing that the Director desired that this list be ident redo

Inclosed herewith is a list of approximately 75 itens.

This rist should not

be considerce apso lutely complete.

Preparation was predicated on my personal recollection and a

review of Bureau records. To make this list more complete and

specifically accurate would necessitate the review of thousands.

of 111030i

The cacloged lipt can be surnotted by Bureau records:

What CIA records reflect on the same items is unknown.

also must be kept in mind in connection with our evaluation

of the alleged CIA grievances which I previously listed.

•I realize that it is presumptuous on my part but

it the Director feels that our Bureau work can benefit by a

personal discussion between the Director and myself, 1am

available until April 3, 1970. I plan to leave the area

Immediately thereafter for an extended period.

ACTION:

For Information.

Enclosure

6-24-94

Classhied by SPaLACKSR

Declassify on DARTFK)

ALL INFORMATICH CONTAM

CLASSIFIED

* I WHEKE SHOW

WINENWISE

Thire pa mo

lassplied by:

empt fro

Dat

of Decapitic

Category 263

on Indefintte:

SECRET

NH 50953

DocId: 32176432 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

possible hostage situation in his native country. The Bureau

was following this potential defection and pursuant to estab-

lished procedures was keeping interested agencies apprised of

developments.

indicating that another Government agency was conducting an

investigation ot the subject.

CIA was

the

it was later established that

Other agency: (Red

Bureau file S

(105-64024)

39.

CIA ACTIVITIES IN

The Legal Attache, Tokyo, reported by letter dated

septenber 22, 1958, Lighty regarded, and very sensitive source

Iwas a paid,

of CIA.* This information was given to the Legal Attache by

G2 Head in Japan. According tol

information to be known to other agencies,

CIA did not want this, The Director's notation was, "Some more

particularly the FBI.

of CIA double dealing. H."

(Letter from Legat, Tokyo, dated

September 22, 1958, "Investigations in Hong Kong and Manila,

Philippines")

40. ALLEGED CIA INCOMPETENCE

During the period October 20-25, 1958, Bureau

representatives attended a seminar at Orlando, Florida, which

was given by the U.S. Air Force. Among the activities was a

lecture given byl

] Subsequent to the (S)

briefing, General Millard Young of the Air Force confided to

Bureau representatives and expressed his displeasure with the

briefing given byl

] He was particularly critical of (S

reluctance to furnish certain information, using the

(S)

excuse that the matter was of a "Top Secret" nature.

General

Young stated that the position taken byl

excuse for incompetence on the part of ciA. "

was only an(S

This item is being cited in the event we desire to

use the foregoing as evidence to support a position that we were

obliged to be circumspect in dealing

with CIA. (Memorandum

October 28, 1958, Roach to Belmont,

"Joint Strategic Planning

Seminar, Orlando Air Force Base, Orlando, Florida, October 20-25,

1958'')

41. .CIA COVERAGE IN CUBA PRIOR TO OVERTEROW OF BATISTA GOVERNMENT

The overthrow of the Batista Government on January 1,

1959, and the subsequent assumption of power by Castro raised

questions concerning the efficiency and competence of U.S. intel-

ligence. Allen Dulles indicated that future

developments would

- 14 -

NH 50953 DocId: 32176432 Page 4

---

## Page 5

(5)

SECRET

show that many more people were involved in the Castro organi-

zation than the U.S. Government had realized.

Information

coming to.our attention suggested the possibility that both

State and CIA had failed to assess developments in Cuba properly.

The foregoing is cited in the event that we found

reason to question

the competency of ciA in Cuba. This coulde

be useful if we wanted to justify the

of a Legal

Attache office in Havana.

One could also comment that poor

coverage in Cuba had an indirect and adverse effect on our

operations in the United States.

42.

By letter dated April 25, 1959, we voiced our

objections to ClA for giving guidance to an individual with

whom we had been maintaining contact for the purpose of developing

him as a double agent.

The individual involved was

a well-known expert in the field of

medical research as It

applied to space flying.

also a contract agent of CIA and had occasion to handle sensitive

matters for that Agency dInapril, 1959,

Twas preparing

(5)

to make a trip to Moscow.

CIA briefed hin on matters as they

applied to his trip..

The Agency also interviewed him concerning

his relationship with the subject in Washington, D. C., and,

furthermore, gave him guidance concerning the relationship.

We objected to CIA giving any guidance tol

3as contacts with the subject without first consurting with us

Bureau file

1(5)

43.

ALLEGED BELITTLING OF COMMUNISM BY ALLEN DULLES

In July, 1959, Allen Dulles of CIA spoke at the

National Strategy Seminar of the National War College. One

of the professors handling the Seminar was critical of Dulles.

He claimed that Dulles had belittled the importance of the

communist problem.

The above is being cited in the event we desire to

utilize the information in justifying a position that it was

necessary to be circumspect with CIA. (Memorandum W. C. Sullivan

to Belmönt, August 14,

1969, "National Strategy Seminar, National

War College, July, 1959")

44.

"'TRUE" MAGAZINE ARTICLE - SEPTEMBER, 1959

In September, 1959, "True" magazine carried an

article captioned "Allen Dulles:

America's Global Sherlock,"

which included information of a derogatory nature concerning

the Director and the bureau.

The article precipitated & crisis

-15-

I SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32176432 Page 5

---

## Page 6

( SEGRET

On February 7, 1962; Colonel Sheffield Edwards,

Director of Security, CIA, informed the Liaison Agent that

CIA was preparing a report containing extremely sensitive

information. He stated that this information came from a

sensitive source and he was not certain as to how it should

be handled.

As a result of a discussion with Edwards on

February 26, 1962,

It was ascertained that CIA had maintained

a technical

surveillance onL

Lover an extended period. S

Edwards explained

that he had been reluctant to identify this

•source at an earlier date because he feared that prosecution

could have been jeopardized and, furthermore, he did not want

his Agency embarrassed in the event the Bureau objected to

CIA maintaining a capability such as technical surveillances.

It was made emphatically.clear to Edwards that it was absolutely

necessary that we be provided with all the details and, further-

more, that CIA, at the outset, should have apprised us of the

existence of the coverage.

The Director made the notation,

"I only wish we would eventually realize CIA can never be

depended upon to deal forthrightly with us.

Certainly my

skepticism isn't based on prejudice nor suspicion, but on

specific instances of all too many in number. Yet, there

exists

wistful belief that the 'leopard has changed his

spots unknown subject; sus aboué invis is

(Memorandum Branigan to Sullivan February 27,

1962,

'Sacha'"y

56.

In February, 1962,

the Liaison Agent was requested

to discuss with CIA a

case which, in our opinion, clearly

indicated CIA had failed to keep

us appropriately informed

of developments. The Bureau's original interest was initiated

In Miami as a result of a discussion with CIA personnel in

city.

Attempts to get CIA replies via correspondence were

negative. On February 13, 1962,

the Liaison Agent discussed

the matter with CIA and received a reply which did not adequately

satisfy the Bureau's request.

(Memorandum Donahoe to Sullivan,

February 27, 1962, and Brennan to Sullivan, March 2, 1962; Bureau

57.

CIA WIRE TAPPING IN THE UNITED STATES

5,

Sometime prior to the Bay of Pigs fiasco, CIA had

become involved in a weird plan designed to bring about the

assassination of Fidel Castro:

One of the principal ingredients

of this plan was to be the utilization of U.S. hoodlums.

CIA

established contact with Robert Maheu, former Bureau Agent, who

served as the intermediary

in dealings with the notorious

hoodlum, Sam Giancana.

SECRET

21 - 1*

NH 50953

DocId: 32176432 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

The entire operation fell apart when we developed

Information indicating that Mabeu was behind a wire tapping

operation in Nevada.

Potentially, there were elements for

possible violation of unauthorized publication or use of

communications.

However, prosecution was out of the question

because of the

tainted involvement of CIA.

(Arthur James Balletti,

"Unauthorized Publication or Use of Communications" and memo

randum from the Director to Mr. Tolson, dated May 10, 1962)

58.

In October,

1962, we lodged a protest with CIA

because the Agency initiated operation of Cuban agents in the

Miami area and in so doing violated Bureau jurisdiction.

Arrangements were subsequently effected where the source in

the matter was turned over to the Bureau for

handling. Clemo-

randum Brennan to Sullivan, October 29, 1962,

59.

on April 23, 1963. CIA requested that the Bureau

establish coverage on a visiting Panamanian national.

welS

Immediately instituted Investigation and then determined that

CIA actually had been instrumental in supporting the subject's

trip to the United States. CIA had been endeavoring to recruit

the subject. On April 29, 1963, a strong protest was lodged

with General Carter, Deputy Director of CIA.

(Memorandum

Brennan to Sullivan, April 26, 1963,

60• ALLEGED ATTACK ON BUREAU BY JON MCCONE

We received information in December, 1963, Indicating

that John McCone, Director of CIA, allegedly was attacking the

Bureau in what would appear to be a vicious and underhanded

manner

McCone allegedly informed Congressman Jerry Ford and

Drew Pearson that CIA had uncovered a plot in Mexico City

indicating that Lee Harvey Oswald had received $6, 500 to

assassinate President Kennedy The story attributed to accone

appeared to be related to information which had come from one

Gilberto Alvarado, a Nicaraguan national.

Interrogation of

Alvarado, including a polygraph, disclosed that he had fabricated

his story®

. This had been made known to CIA and to McCone•

There

fore, if McCone had made the above statements to Ford and Pearson,

it would appear that it would have been an obvious attempt to

ridicule the Bureau®

The Liaison Agent contacted McCone on

December 23, 1963=

McCone vehemently denied the allegations.

(Memorandum

Brennan to Sullivan, December 23, 1963, "Relations

With CIA"')

22-14

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32176132 Page 7

---

## Page 8

OPTIONAL PORA NO. 10

501@106

MAT IPAS ADITION

O1A. G1M.100.20. 81

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

TO :Mr. C. D. DeLoach

DATE:

FROM :H. C. Sullivan

SUBJECT: RELATIONSHIPS TYITH CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

AGENCY (CIA)

BUREAU OPERATIONS IN CUBA]

3/7/70

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASBIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION .

IN THIS DOCUMENT, AS SANITIZED

GMB 5-31-94(508 mAC (GeL)

6- 24-94

Item number eleven in the material submitted to the

^ Director by SA Sam Papich in his memorandum 3/5/70 states that

we operated informants™ in Cuba during the period we had a

Logat Office in Havana and did not coordinate our operations

with CIA or advise it we had sources there. It was noted that

after Castro Came on the scene, approval was granted to turn

certain informants over to CIA. Papich also refers to a

memorandum NaME

to.

, 2/5/60, regarding the

Communist Party of Cuba (CPC) which dealt with the problem

of whether a Havana sourcalucad in m intercept operation

between the

and the CPC| should bel

turned over

to CIA to obtain complete coverage. We,"

"of course,

had no coverage of

Bureau had not advised other

agencies of this source since we did not want Castro to uncover

any operational activities which might embarrass the Bureau. (g

The entire operation was later turned over to CIA.

CIA began its operations in Havana in 4/47 and in a

letter to the Bureau, 4/28/53, [regarding Havana informants 7e

NAME noted that

CIA was not overly cooperative and that,

in fact, it was not developing pertinent information. At that

and had no plans for any aggressive action in that field. Lor

this reason it was necessary for us to develop our own coverage

We instructed NAME to ascertain from the Havana CIA

representative information available to him concerning matters

of interest to the Bureau; however, he was to continue through

Informant sources to obtain needed information regarding security

Subsequently, our

relations vith CIA improved to the point of being described as

excellent in 1958. We think our overall position to be sound, 6-2-94

RECOMMENDED ACTION:

Classified by 5P8 Mac/ GCL

Declassify on: DADR / (JFK)

None. We do not believe, in light) of the facts set forth,

that CIA will make an issue of this matAriONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

SECRET

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctione

HH 50953 DooId: 32176432 Page 8

---

## Page 9

OPTIONAL FORM NO 10.

5010-100

MAY IDOL EDITION

GSA. GEN. REQ.-NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Hr. C. D. DeLoach

DATE:

SECRET

FROM

:W. C. Sullivan

SUBJECT: RELATIONSHIPS WITH CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

AGENCY (CIA)

[BUREAU OPERATIONS IN CUBATES

Waltera

Mohr

1 - Mr. DeLoach

1 - Mr. Sullivan

3/7/70

1 - Liaison

1 - Mr. Flemister

Bishop

Casper

Callahen

Conted

Felt

Gole

Rosen -

Sullivan -

Tavel -w

Soyars

Tele. Room.

Holmes -

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO Y

"DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR,

RELEA

: GIA INFORIMATION

JUGSMENIAS SANITIZE

HEREEN IS ONOLASSIFTED

41122

2. 90

Classilco

ON• DADR JFR

Declassifv

Item number eleven in the material submitted to the

1 Director by SA Sam Papich in his memorandum 3/5/70 states that

we operated informants in Cuba during the period we had a

Legat Office in Havana and did not coordinate our operations

with CIA or advise it we had sources there. It was noted that

DRZERWI

alter Castro came on the scene, approval was granted to turn

certain informants over to CIA.

Papich also refers to a

memorandum Donahoe to Mr. Belmont, 2/5/60, regarding the

Communist Party of Cuba

(CPC) which dealt

with the problem

between the

I whether a Havana sourcellused in an intercept operation

turned over to cIA to obtain complete coverage. We,'

IS Bureau had not advised other

agencies of this source since

we did not want Castro to uncover

The entire operation was later turned over to CIA.

CIA began its operations in Havana in 4/47 and in

letter to the Bureau, 4/28/53, Legarding Havana informants,M

the Legat noted that CIA was not overly cooperative and that,

in fact, it was not developing pertinent information. At that

time legat met with the cla representative in Havana who

admitted he was not getting any information (concerning the CPC Co

and had no plans for any aggressive action in that field. For

this reason it was necessary for us to develop our own coverage J

We instructed the Legat to ascertain from the HaVana CIA

representative information available to him concerning matters

of interest to the Bureau; however, he was to continue through

informant sources

to obtain needed

matters which could

information regarding security

not be supplied by CIA. Subsequently,.our

relations with CIA improved to the point of being described as

excellent in 1958. We think our overall position to be sound.

RECOMMENDED ACTION:

None.

we do not believe, in light

that CIA will make an issue of this matter

of the facts set forth,

HCF : bsf/mst

(5) mit

SECRET

NH 50953

D001d: 32176132

Page 9

---

