# 124-10185-10098_4

## Page 1

124-10185-10098

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

CUTENAL PORN NO, TO

#IT 186 89171076

-DEA GIN, HIG. NG. 3P

SNITED STATES GOVE

Memorandum

Mr. C. D. DeloachPy

W. C. Sullivas

WENT SEGREE

1 - Mr. DeLoac

/ - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Mr. Conrad

DATE:

"April 14, 1970

668-51016L

DECLASSIFIDD

05 4-2-98

RELATIONS WITH CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)

Reference my memorandum 3/30/70 summarizing proposals of

CIA Director Helms regarding FBI-CIA coordination in intelligence collection

activities. Director approved meetings between CIA and Bureau representa-

tives to further explore these matters.

mor

On afternoon of 4/13/70, Inspector D. E. Moore and myseli met

briefly with Mr. James Angleton, Chief, Counterintelligence staf, Cla,

and Mr. W. Scott Miler of his staff. This session was strictly exploratory

in nature and was aimed at defining the scope and limitations of our

- discussions with CIA on the points in question. Angleton noted that CIA

Director Heims wili be closeiy iuliowing the vulcome df these discussions

and is personally interested in resolving any current problems in this area.

Mr. Angleton indicated that C. A would like to direct initial attention

to two of the items cited by Helms, namely, the question of audio (electronic

surveillance) coverage and the suggestion that FBI and CIA specialists in the

# communist bloc field hold periodic seminars to coordinate our information.

The Bureau's position regarding electronic surveillance coverage, as

outlined in the Director's letter to Helms of 3/31/70, was reitereated with

emphasis upon the problems such coverage often pose with regard to

I prosecution as well as adverse public reaction to this type coverage.

I made the point that the Bureau has not received the necessary

support in this area from responsible quarters; that in the past the Bureau

had a substantial amount of coverage of this type in the interest of both our

own counterintelligence responsibilities as well as the national security •

interest but that we have had to retrench in recent years largely as a resuit

of the lack of support for such operations.

Angleton noted that in response to CIA's request for electronic

coverage of two Indian nationals who were suspected KGB agents in the Fall

of 1969, the Bureau had requested that they take this matter un with the

Classified big

WCS:mea

(4)

Empt from EDS, GucTorY 243 CONTINUEPR-20 Via/8

do of Doglassification Indofinite

517 APR APR 4 1970

SECRET

---

