# 124-10004-10025

## Page 1

124-10004-10025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10004-10025

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 100-10461-9212.9213.9214.9215

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

LEG. MX

DIRECTOR. FBI

DATE: 09/30/1969

PAGES: 11

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 105-82555-5617

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/24/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

11/03/2000

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

INC 4 MEMOS

NH 50953

DooId: 32114651

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIE!

IN THAS DOCUMENT: (R47/0 97)

BRACETS an

RELEASE L

Director, FBI (105-82555) CONFIDN TAL

Legat, Mexico City (105-9702) (RUC)

Sept. 30, 1969

NET: LEPORNELO O CONTATNOD

WHERE SHOWN ORVIEND.

LEX HARVEY OSWALD

IS - RUSSIA - CUBA

0 4 213

toted by 9803-Rdllndl

Declassily on: DADR JFK

Relulet 9/12/69 to Assistant Attorney General, Internal

Security Divloton, coplas of which vero sorerded to tale office"

Inclosed herewith are two feros reproductions of the

Mexico City file coples of Mr.

CHARLES: JACKAS" memorandun dated

002, and the memoranda from this offico to the Ambassador

dated: 12/27/65 and 2/23/00.

Background

ELENA CARRO DE PA, OF MISS CARRO C ME-THOMAS Calls

is a well known figuro in Mexican politienl, sociaand

On orched sahay ine data to don goblindo tomor

FREIMAN, the then Deputy Chief of Mission CLARENCE A. BOONSTRA,

and many others. All of those offietals espressed to me on

various occasions the opinton that Miss GARRO 152 very interesting

person and a scintillating conversationalist, butthat she has a

vivid imagination and frequently appears to be unable to distinguish

between truth and fiction.

Although Interesting.. they all:considere

her as highly unreliable as a source of inforation e copt for

MT. THOMAS who apparently placed consietent credence in That M1ss

GARRO said.

When Mies GARRO visited this office, In November 1964. She

claimed that she had Been LEE HARVEY OSWALD Of a PArtY SAYeR SE

the home of RUBRI DIRAN on Septenber 30, October To or October

1963, an reported 1a Mexico City letterhead memorandum of 12/12/84

As previously reported, Miss CARRO elaimed that her daughter;

LAVAGNINI STENIUS

Identification of tate individual, the had

4 - Bureau (Bncs.-6)

(1 - Ltaison Section)

1 - Mexico City

NLF/ako

(5)

одо

Classified by

Exempt from GD

Category

(EASECRET

100

1046/

SEARCHED.

INDEXED.

SERIALIZED.

OCT 1 6 1969

FBI - DALLAS:

while

ро

HH 50953

Doold:32114651

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

CONNE

MEX 105-3702

who acquired this intelligence informatión, I feel a

responsibility for seeing it through to its final evaluation."

It appears,

therefore, that Mr. THOMAS has now decided that he

and not the FBI or the Department of Justice is the one to

decide how the story given by Miss GARRO is to be evaluated.

The concept that every person who passes on to another govern

ment agency information relating to matters within the jurisdiction

of that agency has the responsibility and authority to review

and evaluate the action taken by that agency is, of course,

untenable. (p)

Further question concerning Mr. THOMAS' judgment is

raised by item 3 of paragraph 10 of his memorandum furnished to

the Secretary of State.

Any reference to the

relationship between the head of CIA Mexico and top Mexican

officials, if true, is a very highly classified matter and any

"leak" or

revelation

to unauthorized individuals concerning such

an arrangement would, in view of the delicate Mexican political

situation, be disastrous to the Mexican Government as well as

to Mexican-American relations. The delicacy of the situation

has recently been greatly augmented by the published Cuban

allegation that one of the officers of the Mexican Embassy in

Havana was acting as

a CIA spy with the knowledge of the Mexican

Government.

Mr. THOMAS, however, included such a highly s

classified Teference in a memorandum which he classified only

as "confidential"

, contrary to regulations relative to classification

of documents.

While this reference relates to the activities and

operations of another Government agency and therefore is not of

primary concern to the Bureau, it is nevertheless called to the

Burgent atesations OF consideration in evaluating lix. THOMASY

An additional copy of this letter is being forwarded

for use in the event the Bureau desires to forward a

Dallas shich received i copy of referenced letter. (fUl

copy to

SECRET

CONTINLUTTAL

NH 50953 DocId: 32114651 Page 3

---

