# 124-10222-10151

## Page 1

124-10222-10151

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10222-10151

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

97-4133-112

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

CIA

CIA

TITLE:

DATE: 07/17/1964

' PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS:

MRR, VENEZUELAN BRANCH, CUBAN EXILE ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

49.1

HH 50953

DooId: 32298375

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 6/3/94 BY.

SPEMAL

4:

3

2

INFUR MON

Rt

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AC

SY

This material contains intormatlon afecting the Natlonal Defense of the United cites witbia the meaning of the Espiounge tars, in

18, U.3.0, Secs. 793 and 704, the transmission or revelation of which in ony manur to an unsuthorized person is prohibited ira

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba/Venezuela/Dominican Republic REFORT NO.

CS-311/00715-64

SUBJECT

Activity. and Plans of thes

Movimiento de. Recuperacion

• Revolucionariak (MRR)

DATE DISTR.

17 July 1964

NO. PAGES

I

REFERENCES

DATE OF.

INFO.

15 June 1964

PLACE &

England, Londön

DATE ACQ. (6 July

1964)

THIS IS UNEVALUATED.

INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

FIELD REPORT NO.

6

ATAlitia

OEL -38450

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

liable, with good

Tom a

contacts

regular

source, probably

in the MR.

1.

On 15 June 1964 a member of the Venezuelan Branch of the Movi

miento de Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MRR, Movement for Revo-

lutionary Recovery) claimed that the MRR has

no operational

base In Venezuela and does not intend to establish one.

The

MRR maintains an office in the Dominican Republic

and

is

believed to have facilities for using that territory

as an

occasional staging point for attacks against. Cuba.

The MAR,

nowever,

does not have a permanent base or training camp in

the Dominican Republic.

The Dominican Government has little

interest

in

supporting

Cuban exile activities at the present

time.

2.

No large-scale exile operations against Cuba by the MRR will

take place

until after the November

1964 elections in the

United States.

The MRR claims that this decision is based on

fact that

at least six months of preparation will be re- ch

quired before internal conditions in Cuba will be favorable

that the decision does not imply close connivance between

the MRR and the United States Administration.

copies made

GIA HAS MOVE, ZHA. 16

112

DECLAECIFICATION ANDIOR,

RELEASE OF SIA INCORMIATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT EXCEPT BRACKETS

JM 1-26-98

S-E-C-R-E-T

mKH 2-6-98 NO FOREIGN DISSEM

for review at FBIHQ by.

HSCA 3: 14:78

92-4133-118

18 AUG 4 1964

STATE

#I DIA

REPCINCLANT

CINCSO #

(Noto: Field distribution indicatod by "#"')

OCR

armania

FBI

INFORMATION:

REPORT

INFOR

ATION

ENGRESHORIGIAL-RETAIN

97-66133

NN 70953

D001d: 32296375

Page 2

---

