124-10189-10061

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10189-10061
: RECORD SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:  62-116395-1651X1

: DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NSC
FROM: DAVIS. JEANNE W.
TO: DIRECTOR. FBI
TITLE:

DATE: 05/25/1976

PAGES: 26
SUBJECT: CC,REQ

DOCUMENT_TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ORIGINAL Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: oe CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE: — 02/12/2001

REVIEW DATE: 08/18/1998
STATUS _ Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(A)

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
COMMENTS: INC 2 MEMO, 8 LTRS, 5 LHM

HW 50953 DociId:32177477 Page 1


: . ' q
NATIONAL, SECu Counci,

RITY
WASHINGTON, 6 ¢

TOP SECRET ATTACH MES,

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Mr. Clarence yy Fer
Director
Federal Bureau of Investig.

SUBJECT; Senate Select Committee Rogue +
LBI Library Documents

In connection with their current investigation of the assassination
of President Kennedy, the Senate Select Committee Staff has been
allowed to re-review documents in the LBJ Library relating to the
Kennedy assassination and alleged assassination attempts against
Fate Fidel Castro. The Committee staff has now requested copies of certain
documents they reviewed in library files and the NSC has been asked
to authorize Provision of these documents to the Committee. As an
alternative for Particularly sensitive items, we may agree to grant
repeated access to Some documents on NSC premises.

your agency, may be made available to the Senate Select Committee on a as
classified basis or made available for access on NSC premises, Task that -
you have appropriate officials in your agency review these documents and

inform my office (395-3440) by c.o.b, tomorrow whether you have any

objection to making copies of these documents available to the Senate

a MO39S [6 5) |

Davis
Staff Secretary

HW 50953 Docld:32177477 Page 2


crag ieee

HW 50953 DocIld:32177477 Page 3


UNITED $

MENT OF JUSTICE

n

FEDS

/ RUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, Doe. 20535

SAS Oe Cr. SIEORMATION 7
HIS DOCUMENT. Gah TLE ¢

November 3, 1967

TRAINING OF NEGROES IN CUBA

This Bureau is in receipt of a copy of a Central
intelligence Agency (CIA) communication dated October 31, H
1837, regarding the training of Nesroes in Cuba. The original :
of the communication was addressed to the Honorable Walt W. i
Rostow, Special Assistant to the President. (8) (4\ a

“Information is contained therein to the effect that
three Cuban sources during the past four months have reported
the existence of a tra ning school near Santiago de Cuba where
from 100 to 150 young men are being groomed for subversive
operations against the United States to include sabotage in
connection with race riots directed at bringing about a Negro
revolution in this country. One source reported that the
training includes courses in English, taught by Soviet
instructors. While two of the CIA Sources described the
students as Negroes, there was no indication that any of the
Negro students were from the United States. The third cra

» source described them as young men from North Vietnam
North Korea, Africa, and Latin-American countries (Au)

Information in the possession of this Bureau indicates
that the above-described training school may well be an outgrowth
of the Tri-Continental Conference, held in Havana, Cuba, in
January, 1966, the declared purpose of which was organizing
guerrilia warfare in a, Africa and Latin America, During the
year following the co. rence this Bureau received continuing
xeports that the Cubans were endeavoring to implement the aims,

. of the conference. Since Castro first came to power in Cuba |

in 1959, we have been alert to his possible use of refugee 7
channels to infiltrate agents and saboteurs and have initiated
appropriate investigative steps to detect this. In January, 1967,
an additional program was instituted aimed at detecting Cuban-
trained agents and saboteurs entering the United States through
legitimate Cuban refugee channels. Such refugees have been arriving
in Miami since December, 1965, at the rate of approximately

4,000 each month. Min the ten months since our Cuban refugee
program was first instituted, over 1,700 cases have been opened
based upon informacion in the backgrounds of various refugees

\ pointing toward a sotential or propensity on their parts to
a undertake intelligence, sabotage, or other subversive missions
os on behalf of the Cuban Government. Currently hese cases are ‘
: being opened at ‘a rate of about 200 a nontn Ag (75) ait
% SECRET i

essen oy Shee. sup/e
(rFK) teste ag

HW 50953 Docld:32177477 Page 4

PAPAL OE DATAICO TATINTOMAD Dinnands +


SECRET

TRAINING OF NEGROES IN CUBA

During late July and early August, 1967, a Latin-

American Solidarity Organization (LASO) conference was held in

Havana, at which the Cubans indicated that they were continuing

their efforts to implement the declared aims of the Tri-

Continental Conference. Numerous resolutions were promulgated i

at the conclusion of the LASO conference, one of which exhorted

North American Negroes"to respond to the racist violence of

the imperialist United States Government -with an increase in |
i direct revolutionary action." The American press and other news
| media extensively reported on the presence of Stokely Carmichael,

' foremost “black power" advocate of violence, in Cuba at the time

of the LASO conference, which began on July 31, 1967. Since
that date all field offices of the FBI have been alerted to
Castro's obvious intention of infiltrating agents into this
country for the purposes of sabotage and influencing the black
nationalists and other subversive movements throughout the
United States.

Our Agents on a selective basis have briefed officials
of various local, county and state police agencies of the
problem posed by the possible use of minority groups in carrying

oul sabotage on benalf of Cuba. Th officials have been
requested to alert their racial and security informants to
provide any clues which would aid the ferreting out of potential
saboteurs. In daily contacts with cooperative security

officials of plants handling key Government contracts, department
stores, supermarkets, and similar establishments employing
Sizeable labor forces, our Agents have alerted such officials

to our interest in being expeditiously advised of data indicating
Groups or individuals within their organizations are potential
tools for use by Castro in subverting the United States.

we

To date, no concrete evidence has been developed to
indicate that any Cuban-trained saboteur has entered this
country since the widely publicized Cuban sabotage ring in
New York City was discovered and immobilized in 1962. Neither
has any evidence been developed of clandestine entry of Cuban-
trained Negroes for any other purposes, including infiltration

of the blagk nationalist movement. The FBI ¢ ntly is |
operating ip Cuban-trained,intelligence agents double agents Hl
or potent double agent ainst the Cubans None of these i

Cuban-trained intelligenéé agents have any information indicating !
Castro has been successful to da in infiltrating Negroes |
fcr the purposes described aboyv

oe

SECRET

} a eee
by VARON RAINES IOHNSOAN HRRARY :

HW 50953 DocId:32177477. Page 5


SECRET oman
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INY

TIGATION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

June 4, 1965

On June 2, 1965, Victor Domindador Espinosa
“" Hernandez, a Cuban refugee, was interviewed at the New York
City Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Espinosa advised as follows:

On May 29, 1965, he returned to New York City after :
spending twenty-six days in Paris, France, wher
f contact with individuals involved in a plot
f Fidel Castro and other Cuban Governne.

figure in this plot is Rolando Cubela
\ Espinosa and an intimate friend an
\ Fidel Castro. Cubela is identical with former Major Rolando

L. Cubela y Secades, who has resigned from the arme
of Cuba and is now practicing

n, ‘© he was in
C to assassinate
nt leaders. The main
» a close friend of
a current neighbor of

forces |
@ sedieine in Havana. Rtberto CS J(u)
Blanco, an employee of the Cuban For j

gn Ministry ph and: iajor
Juan Almeida Bosqu@ are the other leading figuresin this
plot. 4)

) He conferred in Paris for about ten days with
Alberto staneghwho was aeras an inspection tour of Cuban C204)
Embassies and‘Consulates abroad He learned that the plot -_
is directed toward the assassination of Fidel Castro, his
brother Raul Castro, Ernesto "Chet Guevara, a Cabinet member
in the present Cuban Government, and Ramiro Valdes, the Chief
of the Cuban Intelligence Service. The assassination of these
individuals is to take place in public, possibly on July 26,
1965, when all the Cuban dieaders would be together at the
annual July 26th celebration in Havana. After the assassination,
those involved in the plot hope to seize the radio station
< and call for American heip. Cubela and ethers associated
with him in this plot desire to know whether or not the
United States would help if the plot was successful and if

* ‘ SECRET

f¥ou automatic

CLASSIFIED BY Sign ciple.  downenyink\end
DECLASSIFY ON: A

i PD
A) “lain | COPY

VEDAS ORIICO IQUAIOANAD TAM Amy

HW 50953 Docld:32177477 Page 6


PLANS TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN LEADERS

the United States would be ready to give this assistance at
& moment's notice as the plotters may be able to hold the
Government Lor only a day or two.

He was in Spain for about twenty hours during his

recent trip and in that country he contacted other Cuban i
a exiles and learned that a man named who is in 6) a
: charge 7]
¢ is aware of this plot t. certain degree. The Cuban exiles
| \ do not trust and allege he has been compromised

a Cuban girl nicknamed "Tota," who was sent from Havana

\ wo Spain fer the specific purpose ef getting in contact with
aa

A |
He requested to be put in contact with a representative |

of the Central Intelligence Agency. who was thoroughly familiar I

with che Cuban situation and knowledgeable concerning the |
individuals involved in the plot. |

pe / } i
|

i

!

i

|

|

i

}
i
i
i

AOE

LYNDON BAINES JOHNSON LIBRARY

HW 50953 DocId:32177477 Page 7



E

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

November 6, 1967
4:50 p.m,

MR, PRESIDENT:

Attached is a FBI memorandum relating to alleged
training of Negroes in Cuba for disruptive tactics
inthe U.S,
An October 31 CIA communication on this subject
was addressed to Walt Rostow. It reported that
there is a training school near Santiago de Cuba
where from 100 to 150 young men are being trained

* in sabotage tactics aimed at bringing about a Negro
revolution in this country, It is reported that Soviet
instructors teach courses in English, as there is no
indication that any of the Negro students were from
the United States, - Another CIA sourcé described
the young men as being from North Vietnam, North
Korea, Africa, and Latin-American Sountries. (B)(L))

To date no concrete evidence has been developed to
indicate that any such saboteurs have entered this
country since a Cuban sabotage ring in New York
City was discovered and immobilized in 1962 The
FBI cy; ¥ 1s operatinghL]8 Cuban-trained Jable
agents inst the Cubanga® None of these Have any
information indicating Castro has been successful to

date in infiltrating’ Negroes for these paspeees HR

oa

|
}

LYNDON BAINES JOHNSON LIBRARY :

1
HW 50953 Docld:32177477. Page 8 |
