# 124-90140-10037

## Page 1

124-90140-10037

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90140-10037

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-4606-12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI'

FROM:

HQ

TO :

CIA

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/26/1961

2

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

GREGORIO DAMIAN MARTINEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NW

50953

13

DocId: 32338080

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Liaison

1 - Leavitt

- 97-4606

Date:

Io:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSINICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF LIA INFURMATION

6-7-78

COPIES MADE

PAPICH

8N THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEpT FOR

eVIt

BRACKETS

FOR REVIEW

KP 5-18-918

HSCA RE*

OT FBIHORY

REQUEST.

(SHE BUFLE #62-1172902

(a)

From:

December 26, 1961

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

John Edger Hoover, Director

GREGORIO DAMIAN MARTINEZ

REGISTRATION ACT - ARGENTINA

Reclassim on QADR

21132

Subject:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEKEIN IS UNCLASSIFLED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE®

Reference 1s made to your communication dated

cal June 29,

1961,

captioned "Gregorio D. Martinez,"

your reference

CSCI-3/765,875

Enclosed

1s

one copy of the report of Speclal

Agent

Luther Coulter, dated November 22, 1961, at san Antonio, Texas,

captioned as above.

312°

This Bureau has no objection to your furnishing

material disclosed in the enclosed report to your

source provided

the information

this

Bureau 16 not disolosed as the source

(S)

BY COURIER SVC.

1 DEG2

COMM• FBI

Molson

Belmont

Mohr ..

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen -

Sullivan.

Tavel

Trotter

Tele.

Ingra tom

Gandy F

We would

appreciate recelving any data your source

is in a position to furnish regarding the nature

subject is furnishing the newspaper "pregon." u) com

Enclosuze

Malacle CLASSIFIEDBY BY SL0/68

DEALASSIFY ON: 25X

JFK)

1 - Bio de Janeiro (Enclosures - 2)

1 - San

• Antonio

(97-81)

1

- Foreign Liaison UnItREC- 36 9 7-

46606-12

NOTE TO LEGAT, RIO DE JANEIRO:

Enclosed for Legat, Rio de Janeiro,

is a Copy of

the

above-mentioned report dated November 22, 1961, at San Antonio,

and its

tory.

accompanying evaluation memorandum, which is self-explana

matter is for your information; however, you should

remain alert

through your sources

for any data concerning the sub-

A Nect anor n1s

association with the

newspaper "Pregon."

I TWNASROOM +8

SEE NOTE ON. YELLOW PAGE TWO

SACERE

MAIL ROOM

HW 50953

DocId: 32338080

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Director

Central Intelligence Agency 2(U)

Letter classified,

Dotained from a CIA conmurgoat oro classifted. (Au)

_it contains data

By letter dated June 29n 1961, CIA advised It had

received information from

that the (S)

subject was supplying "Pregon,

Argentine newspaper,

material for publication.

The newspaper was described as being

anticommunist.

CIA possessed no additional information on subject

or "Pregon" and requested data regarding subject possessed by this

Bureau for passage to

We had no information to furnish CIA upon receipt of

their request and initiated inquiry to identify subject.

Inasmuch

as we have now developed background data concerning him we are

furnishing same to CiA for passage to theig sources.

Also since

we are requesting them to furnish us with any additional data they

develop it is considered desirable to allow CIA to furnish this

material to their sources rather than Legat. In this manner

we will be assured

that the source who is apparently in a position

to know of subject's assoclation with "Pregon" will have the results

of our inguiry.

legat, however, should and is being alerted to In

stant matter.

Evaluation memorandum is not being disseminated with

report to CIA as CIA is the other Government agency mentioned

1n

the details of the report le

1 2 c

SECBET

HW 50953

DocId: 32338080

Page

3

---

