124-10284-10177)

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10284-10177

HQ

CR 105-37216-18, 19

Date:

6/8/2015

ORIGINATOR :

FRO!

TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :

* RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

FBI
JOHNSON, EDWIN 0.
DIRECTOR, FBI

11/18/1958

7

EPE, CULTURAL EXCHANGE, IMPROVE, MX, RUSS,

RELATION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

06/03/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

TNC MEMO, LHM

v9.1

HW 50953 DocIld:32303665

Page 1


- Report ire
FD-263-) 5-:

Taeeetigetave Porta
a a/s8: |. 10/283 {1/657
Teportvande by 7

EDWIN. Oe. JOHNSON
oa CHARACTER (OF CASE i

Reporting Office,

: : Oftiee of Origin
“MEXICO, Ds Pe. » + BUREAU.“
TITLE.OF CASE. y :

Ti ee aa anet TaU TR OF:
CULTURAL -EXCHANGE) » - :

GUADALAJARA, JALISCO ° cLassirieD BY Bf

: ee f OCUMENT. Me, ie

Soe — ~DECLASSIEY C GF NT THS_D eM

ie “ gupseet organization hes ts heedauantors” and: ‘poskstors: om 6-25-47

. Juarez 682, Guadalajara,’ Jalisco,: Mexico. : Attorney: ARTURO. : :
RIVAS’ SAENZ is acting as Director-of this organizations :

, Its. premises: wéré inaugurated on. October 25, 31958, with one

‘of the speakers: being. BORIS.A. KAZANTSEV, “First. Secretary .

‘of. the Soviet. Embassy, Mexico City.- The announced _purpose.

. of the ‘organization. is’ the exchange of scultural. material’

> to improve Mexican-Russian relations a: under’ standings

“ About two. hundred people attended. the inauguration. . Names.

“of; some of the. “people who - attended set out: At a mee ting: ~

« hela November “11, 1958, _the-, work, of subject ork anization out

aft ° was -discussede |
‘ PO =P ge

DATE. FORW.

IW’ FORW, 2. ~
i Bees

“Spatial ‘agent =]
vin Charge

Bureau (105“3721A\" vice b
_American Embassy ie iat ‘
“Mexico Ci v(ciregulation peste

onsuliite, Guadala jere. He
a! = Mexico onty. 205-3 567) i ea

pe UAT 18) 72

TPigperty of Far tnis Feport is Toanea to.

et ae a

HW 50953 DocIld:32303665 Page 2

