124-90137-10390) 7
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/17/201
Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90137-10390
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 105-78205-76
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: LALLIER
TITLE:
DATE: — 10/19/1961
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS : MEMO
f
i
|
|
|
i}
I
|
; 18
NW 50953 Docld:32337624 Page 1


saga EaRDEEEREnHREREREE a == gn nS ESET

* OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 ane) Giri Tolson ;
ie a Belmont i
- UNITED STATES GOVE’ WENT r Mohr
| 7 = ~~ Nee 7 Callahan 1
Memorandim - fo

Evans -
ae

; CIA HAS No bBseCrION 10 rome
FROM; S. J. Papich SECRE
o i$ DOCUMENT EXCEPT.

ON AND/OR, Tele. Room
SUBJECT: CUBAN FOREIGN MINISTER RAUL ROA K "eS ,
as

I TO : R. 6. Lange pate: Octob Sulltves
:NEORMATICRCS
acl
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATT

oatasst g

| Be

Reference is made to memorandum dated October 9, 10e

from Mr. Donahoe to Mr. Sullivan. iaison was requested to dis
creetly attempt to obtain details[ot a previous Central Intelli-

gence Agency (CIA) approach to br ff about the defection of the 5)

subject’) (u) quel fwaeLh Quevenat®

: 4 TheLiaison Agent/has ascertained that prior to the Cuban

invasion in April, 1961, CYA became quite excited about the possi-_

bilities of Rog] He allegedly had become the U.S. feEIA e) ye" » \
rent

and was int: ablishing his residence in-the U.S

was not receiving this nformation directly but through dif:

Cuban intermediaries. The Agency then promoted through
a Cuban named Quevedofx e owner {and editorfer, the Cuban
(publication... "Bohemia U
at

"] mia n New York City. eportedly
fad direct contact with(Roa and was aso in totic f Roa's
,.SistersPnot identified CIA also_utilize aire named/ Falcon
7Brecen tho had made some contact (with Roa > nn

As we know, CIA was ae in
_____| Roa allegedly had expressed an interest but] after the S)
ive invasion in April, {he took an entirely differént attitudé
and}€ontinued to tro. CIA did not promote any
further attempts

ACTIGN: : ©

ALL INFORMATION CONTALNED ‘
HERELN IS UNCLASS ‘D EXCEPT
WHERE SGOWN GTHRRWISE,

The above information. is being directed to the attentiqn
of the Nationalities ey Section. 5H

/-6 [ee << F70ST ip
Mr. Donahoe i

iris “o 720A a ise () |

Mr. Papich
ae

sg @9P at
a ™ SECRET |

bet et bet fed

prae

3 OCT 274 Mi

HW 50953 DocId:32337624 Page 2

