124-90092-10004

JFK Assassination System.
Identification Form

Date:

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90092-10001
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 65-68227-927
Document Information
: ORIGINATOR: — FBI
| FROM: NY
TO: HQ
: TITLE:
DATE: — 10/08/1965
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
ROBERT GLENN THOMPSON
WILLIAM K. HARVEY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/15/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS : RPT :

vol

HW 50953 Docld:32330756 Page 1


RO. ae
CHARACTER OF CASE

ag
GLENN THOMPSON aka
Cmmen, James, 01800, \

pertson, “Tommy. —
&

sub INFORMATION CONTAINED Fy

¥
HEREIN 1S UNCLASSIFIED Neste oy : mee
: gy Sores (org
The tit His report 16 marked “changed” to
BOB ROBERTSON, which THOMPSON indicated he had
A ‘sibly used in the Fall of 1959 in.a flight from Detroit —
» 8 to NYC, and the name, “poMMy" by which name Mrs. HARO: :
< RETZLASP, El Paso, Texas, knew ‘THOMPSON.

y : ‘Bureau has advised that the code name, "OXTANK",
< formerly used in communications other than reports and
2X letterhead memoranda will no longer be used.

8 e ae ts

ne sumhavy’ of THOMPSON's story in

; ‘saturday Evening Post" (SEP), the following information, —
obtained through interviews of THOMPSON and through other

= sources, is set forth to clarify the SEP story.

GPECIALAGENT
¢ INCHARGE,

Regarding

p
i)

nie

y

ITE IN SPACES BELOW

e Zia) (RM) & :
: 65-675) (Info) (All So
1 (65-3540). ne : ea oa 1 68

oe FELEAS.

sy York (65-2227) IN THIS
Dissemination Record gf Attached Report _
ae : raid]

¥ ah
; NE ws ke —

$0953 Docld:32330756 Page 2


SECREY,

Lhruis 5 PAG
Lyrdle ee a suf
Zz. psleth 8 OW, Aest, DIA

ce (Hal? ) hey 3 Leaetge Vi AAS, A posite

Uke
PL Attack. ted pusley mt ny [oe
Aaked (Se fos- bleh ten lannnsrneda

lepae/os Af Saseien ee

ett Lg Te LS ee

NG a ig ho vine?

cone

: ‘va Baya wa : mae
| $9 Hd 9 Ey A9g gougene 190
1 996 82 Kur Recep

906 «1 34 Feasts
: _ eve r= CHE te

HW 50953 Docld:32330756 Page 3


d 4
Rey

yoo
Fi

Tee}

“ny 65-2027 : Peer

a)
G.
fourm Marve YD) eh :

THOMPSON stated that this individual's face was
somewhat familiar, and that the name definitely was
familiar to him. THOMPSON identified this individual as

a Captain HARVEY, whose red_on communications
directed to OSI from then apm phe Sbeeie ically,
THOMPSON remembered that “Captain HARVEY shame had appeared

ests submitted to OSI. Berlin, from the
[SYTHOMPSON believed that the Soviets either
Owe: MES. @ picture of HARVEY cr asked THOMPSON
about HARVEY, ‘THOMPSON stated that he furnished whatever
available information he had about HARVZY to the Soviets,

but he could not now recall the nature of this ey?)

Secret,

Cover Lege
a ea

HW 50953 Docld:32330756 Page 4

Saeae oe rosssssa Ceneesee dese easusv esse SodonsaseeeoresessstecostrersssssscessasststeremNarees
