# 124-10221-10279

## Page 1

124-10221-10279

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10221-10279

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 185-789-914X

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG. BUE

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/13/1977

PAGES: 13

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

OBA, ALCAINO, JAIME VASQUEZ, ACCUSATION, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

08/17/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

50953

DooId: 32340886

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BI

DOF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Assoc.

Dir.

Dep. AD Inv

Asst.

Dir.:

Adin.

Sarv.

JAN 1 3 197/

SECOET

Mer

TELETYPE

C

Co bY 5668-520/14

1.5

)(G)

Ext. Affirs

Fin. & Pers

SEBRES

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Intell.

Legal Crun.

Plan. & Insp

P 1312007 JAN 77

FM BUENOS AIRES (15 735) (P)

S. & T. Serv.

Spec. Inv.

020

13

ADVISDO

SLIP (S)

DATE

•UPING

Lassi

Trining

-23.83

TelephoRn.

Director Sess

TO DIRECTOR (185-789

85

102 1 15°

CILASS

BY

I = 45 - 80

SECRET

Sing on:

REASON - FCIN

IS TO EJECTION TO

DATE OF REVIEW

CLASSIFCAWION AND/OR,

CHIL BOM;

PRFO - MURDER; EID; 00J. 00: WFO.

RELEASE OF CLA YARFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT

REBUCABS JANUARY 4. AND JANUARY 12, 1977. U

BRACKETS

I'm 6-18-97

REBUCAB JANUARY 4, 1977, CONTAINED INFORMATION SECURED BY

WHICH INDICATED THAI AFTER IHE ASSASSINATION OF ORLANDO

ETELIER, THE DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF INVESTIGAT IONS ( DGI)

INITIATED AN INVESTIGATION INTO THE ACTIVITIES OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA

DURING HIS 1975 STAY IN SANEL$S RE

REPORT ME A CLE DIRECTOR

OF DINA WAS INSTRUMENTAL IN HAVING CHILEAN

PRESIDENT

PINO CRETE

1.85-

189-9144

ISSUE ORDERS TO STOP THE DGI INVESTIGATION AND TO PROHIBIT7

JAN 18 1977

CHILEAN OFFICIALS FROM DISCUSSING THE CASE WITH

ANY AMERICANS.

REBUCAB JANUARY 12, 1977, SET FORTH A WEEKLY SUMMARY OF WFO

INVESTIGATION IN CAPTIONED MAITER- DATED JANUARY 5, 1977, WHICH

REITERATED THE FOREGOING INFORMATION®

CONFISENTIAL

DURING THE CHILEAN ROAD TRIP JANUARY 5-8, 1977, LEGAT

CONTACTED

INSPECIOR JAIME VASQUEZ ALCAINO, DIRECTOR OF THE INTERPOL

1- MA+WFO 0->3

Faut

MAR

FEBE EN

Rm.

1977 en

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFISO

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWIE

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32340886 Page 2

---

## Page 3

D

PAGE TWO SEE BUE 157-35

SECRET CONDMENTIA

SECTION OFXINVESTIGACIONES DE CHILE (CHILEAN INVESTIGATIONS) (IC).

IT IS NOTED

THAT DGI WAS RENAMED IC DURING EARLY DECEMBER, 1976.

VASQUEZ IS

JAND

"PERSONAL FRIEND OF LEGAT" •

ADDITIONALLY, VASQUEZ HAS BEEN AN EXTREMELY CLOSE PERSONAL FRIEND,

ADVISOR AND CONFIDANI TO GENERAL ERNESTO BAEZA MICHAELSEN, THE

JAiMENASQUEZ WAS EXTREMELY UPSET AND DEJECTED OVER A RECENT OFFICIAL

SANCTION AGAINST HIM WHICH

INCLIDED A TEN DAY SENTENCE WHICH CONFINED

HIM TO IC HEAD QUARTERS, REMOVAL FROM HIS POSITION AS INTERPOL DIRECTOR

AND A TRANSFER FROM SANTIAGO TO AN IC RESIDENI AGENCY IN. PUERTO MONI,

A REMOTE SOUTHERN AREA OF CHILE. (X

VASQUEZ EXPLAINED THAT DURING THE LAST WEEK OF SEPTEMBER, 1976,

A SERIES OF ACCUSATIONS WERE MADE BY THE NUMBER TWO MAN IN IC CON

CERNING ALLEGED MISCONDUCT BY VASQUEZ IO GENERAL BAEZA. VASQUEZ

ADVISED THAT FOUR OF THE ACCUSATIONS

MADE AGAINST HIM WER ABSURD

AND HE WAS ABLE TO DEFEND HIMSELF SUCCESSFULLY. VASQUEZ NOTED IHAT

FOUR OF THE ACCUSQIIONS HAD TO DO WITH HIS ALLEGED RECEIPT OF AN

AUTOMOBILE FROM A NARCOTICS TRAFFICKER AND OTHER FINANCIAL IRREGU

(X)(4) •

CONFIDENTIAL

914

HH 50953 Do0Id:32340086 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET CONXDENTIAL

PAGE TEN SEGRET BUE 157-35

SEC

RIMINALS ACI IVE IN THE NARCOTICS

FIELDE

LEGAT BELIEVES THAT

INFORMATION INDICATING THAI IC WASS

PROHIBITED BY PRESIDENT PINOCHET FROM DISCUSSING BOSCH'S CASE WITH

ANY AMERICANSYMORE I HAN LIKELY REFERS TO VASQUEZ'S REMOVAL FROM

SANTIAGO BY TRANSFERRING VASQUEZ, THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENI EFFECTIVELY

(4)

HAS GUARANIEED THAT IHE BOSCH INVESTIGATION WOULD NOT BE DISCUSSED

ITH U. S. OFFICERS, SINCE ONLY VASQUEZ, GENERAL BAEZA AND THE DINA

DIRECTOR HAD A COMPLETE PICTURE AS TO IC'S INVESTIGATION OF BOSCH

THE IC OFFICIAL REPLACING VASQUEZ HAS VIRTUALLY NO KNOWLEDGE OF REQUES

MADE

TO

IC CONCERNING CUBAN EXILE ACTIVITIES AND ACCORDING TO VASQUEZ,

THIS IC OFFICER IS COMPLETELY IGNORANT AS TO BOSCH'S ACTIVITIES IN

CHILE, SINCE VASQUEZ TRANSMITTED THIS INFORMATION DIRECTLY TO GENERAL

BAEZA Y

00) 0XJ(41

AGAIN; AS PREVIOUSLY NOTED, BY THE BUENOS AIRES OFFICE,

BOSCH'S ACTIVITIES IN CHILE DURING 1975 ARE OBVIOUSLY EXTREMELY

EMBARRASSING TO THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT AND THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENI

IS EXTREMELY RELUCTANT AND. WILL BE ADAMANT IN DISCLOSING ANY CONNEC

TIONS BY BOSCH-WITH ANY CHILEAN GOVERNMENT ENTITY. WHETHER OR NOT

SECRET

CONFINDNTIAL

NH 50953 DocId: 32340886 Page 1

---

