# 124-10369-10021

## Page 1

124-10369-10021

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10369-10021

HQ

62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-W9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 06/02/1972

• PAGES: 274

SUBJECTS :

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY OSWALD

INCOMING COMMUNICATIONS VOLUME XIV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/17/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC FOLDER, MEMO, A/T, TTY, NEWS RELEASES, NEWS ARTICLES, LHM, TELEGRAM,

NOTES

v9.1

NH 50953

18

DooId: 32319387

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1002 BONTICIN

GSA FPMN: (41 CFF) 101-11.0

UNITED STATES GO

•RNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-22555)

11/6/70

TO

DATE:

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (105-3702) (RUC)

FROM :

CIA HAS NO OJECTION TO

DECLASSIS JATION AND/OR,

LEE PARVEY OSWALD

SUBJECT:

IS -R-. CUBA

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOGOMENT

Boff

5-10-93..

Reference Mexico City letter 10/14/62 in OSWALI case;

Mexico City letter 7/30/53 and Havana letter 8/29/58 entitled,

"TERESA PRONNZA; SM - C;" and Mexico City letter and LEM 10/5/70

entitled, "JORGE LUIS ROJAS MANDOZA; IS - CUBA" (Bufile 105-115365).

PROENZA'S full name appears to be MARIA TERESA

PROENZA PROENZA.

she is currently said to be in havana, Cuba,

after spending several years. in Santa Clara Province under

near house arrest.

She now appears to have more freedom.

She is the sister of the wife of JORGE LUIS ROJAS MENDOZA,

a Mexican employee of the Cuban Aviation Company in Merico City.

Ber brother ALVARO ESTANISLAO PROENZA PROENZA resides in

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and is the subject of an IS - CUBA

investigacion.

TERESA PROENZA waS the secretary of the Mexican

communist muralist DinGo RIVira prior to the revolution.

. She

became an

employee of the Cuban Enbassy in Mexico City follow

ing the revolution.

She was described by her brother ALVARO

in 1955 as 3 "dedicated communist" and a "slave of the Cuban

conmunist government."

The following information is extracted from the letter

and LeM submitted by Mexico City on 10/5/70 concerning JORGE

LUIS ROJAS MENDOZA and the efforts of his family to arrange

for his sister MARGOT ROJAS MENDOZA to leave Cuba and join the

family in Mexico:

According to information furnished by Max 197 on

9/21/70, the ROJAS family has become very embittered about

the

Cuba situation and Mrs. ROJAS, whose full name is CARIDAD

8-Bureau

(1=105-135744) (ALVARO PROENZA PROENZA)

L54-20479) (TERESA PROENZA PROENZA)

(I-Foreign Liaison Desk)

(1-Philadelphia) (105-11156) (ALVARC PROENZA PROENZA) (Info)

3-Mexico City

(1-100-1234) (TERESA PROENZA PROENZA)

(1-105-0-9027) (ALVARO PROENZA PROUNZA)

79-180

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Ragularly on the Payroil Savings Plan

NH 50953 DocId: 32319387 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MEX 105-3702

"CACHITA" PROENZA PROENZA DE ROJAS, complained that Cuba has

become a police state and that Cuban authorities have the

family "all tied up."

ROJAS and his wife told MEY 197 that

a Cuban communist named JUAN MARINE is a Iriend of the family.

On one trip to Cuba, CACHITA ROJAS asked him to look Into the

situation of her sister TERESA PROENZA to see how it could

be straightened out.

MARINE recently visited Mexico "incognito"

and informed the ROJAS that the situation now is extraordinarily

good but that TERESA was once under a death sentence because

she had dealt with LEE HARVEY OSWALD while assigned to the

Cuban Embassy prior to the assassination of JOHN F. KENNEDY.

Her friends interceded for her and her life was spared. ROJAS

told MEX 197 that MARINE warned them not to tell the Cuban

Embassy in lexico City that he had spoken to them about this

matter.

The source stated that JORGE ROJAS and his wife

do not know how to cope with the present situation.

They

fear going to Cuba and they are speaking out against the Cuban

revolution in a most forthright manner.

The bitterness dis-

played by ROJAS wife far exceeds any that the source

can recall in the past.

The source stated that some years ago, as best he

could recall, he heard JUAnA LUISA tRounce, a sister of CACaltA

who died some years ago, telling a similar story of how TERESA

PROSNIZA was somehow involved with LEE HARVEY OSWALD at the

Cuban Embassy.

At the time TERESA was employed at the embassy,

she lived with JUANA LUISA and another sister.

Within the

family it has always been said that JUANA LUISA worried herself

to death after TERESA was ordered to Cuba.

The Mexico City Office has conducted a review of

references to TERESA PROENZA especially those dealing with the

OSWALD investigation and it is noted that as set forth in

Mexico City letter to the Bureau 1/24/54 in the OSWALD case

MEX 18 and MEX 19,

both of whom have furnished reliable infor

mation in the past, reported on 1/13/54 that they had conversed

with ELIZABETH CATLETT MORA, Bufile 100-395934, who told them

of a conversation she held

with TEReSA PROENZA, the Cultural

Attache of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.

According to

MORA, TERESA PROENZA had told her that OSWALD walked in "cold"

to the Cuban imbassy and the first person he talked to was

PROENZA. Since PROENZA did not speak inglish, she turned him

2.

50953 Docld:32319387 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NEX 105-3702

While it is not clear from available information,

it would appear that PRONZA was able to return from Cuisa

for a visit to mexico following her disnissal and departure

in 1/64.

By report dated 1/14/65 the CIA reported on the in-

vestigation by the fuban government of old line communist

JOAQUIN ORDOQUI MESA.

In this report it was indicated that

TIGRESA PROCNEA had been arrested at her home and was being

held incommunicado.

A review of the foregoing material indicates that

TERESA PROENZA got into trouble with the Cuban government nore

as a result of her criticisn of the handling of the OSWALD

matter following the assassination of President KENNEDY than

because of anything she did when OSWALD visited the Cuban

Embassy.

Her harsh criticism of nigh Cuban officials (the

Ambassador and foreign Minister) was apparently well known

in the embassy and hardly helped her case.

It fails to

indicate that she did anything for CSWALD that would substantiate

the remarks made by JORGE LOJAS and his wife to MEX 197 that

TERESA PRORizA had nearly been erecuted because of her activittes

during OSWALD's visit to the Cuban Embassy in 1963.

In the

absence of additional information regarding this activity, no

further investigation is contemplatec at this time.

It is

noted

that it is not feasible to directly interrogate JORGE

ROJAS

or his wife.

Rowever, MEx 197 will closely follow this

matter with then

and any arditional, significant developments

will be called promptly to the attention of the Bureau.

One information copy is being furnished to Philadelphia

in view of their interest in kiVARO PROLlA.

PROENZA,

MEX: 107 reported on 7/5/73 that he hac recently visited

the ROJiS family in Merico City and CACHITA remarked that

ALVARO said he was surrounded by "gusanos" (referring

Cuban exiles in a derogatory manner) in Philadelphia.

4

NH 50953 DocId: 32319387 Page 1

---

## Page 5

Director, FBI (105-82565)

Sopt. 30, 1969

Legat, Mexico City (105-3702) (RUC)

CIA MES WE CRECTON TO (× 3110197)

D%C:

LE HARVEY OSWALD

IS - RUSSIA • CUBA

RELLACE C: GA ANGORMATION

IN THIS LUUGNLITAS SONITO

ReBulet 9/12/69 to Asaistant Attorney General, Internal

Security Division, coples of which vere forarded to this offica.

anclosed heroulth are two keros reproduction of the

Mexico City file copies of Mr. CHARLES THOMAS' menorandun dnted

12/10/65, and the memoranda fron this office to the Ambassador

Sated 12/27/65 and 8/23/66.

ALLINFORMATION OOAITRINCD

HEREN IS UNGLASGES EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTheRe"

SLEA GARIO DE PAL, OF HIS CAIRO AS NT. TICAS calle

ner, 18 a velL khov figure in emen political, social and

literary cireles.

She was a playwright and well known to many

officials of the Embany including the then Ambassador FULTON

FREXIAN, the then Deputy Chief of Minaion CLARICE A. BOONSTRA,

and many others.

All of those officinle expressed to me on

various occasions the opinion that Mina CARRO 1a a very Interenting

person and a scintillating conversationalist, but that she has &

vivid imagination and frequently appears to be unable to distinguish

Although interesting, they all considered

her as highly unreliable as a source of information except for

Mr. THONAS who apparently placed consintent credence in what Miss

GARRO said.

When Mins GARRO visited this office in November 1964, whe

clained that she had seen la harvey count at & party given at

the home of RUBKI DURAN on September 30, October 1, or Cetober i;

1963,as reported In Mexico City letterhend memorandus of 12/11/64.

SLINA PAL ChiRO, who accompanied her at that party, not for the

IrBt tine " young man later identified by her as ARIO ALLIANDRO

LA VAGNINI STENIUS. Identification of this individual, who had

1/22158

4 - Bureau (Rncs.-6)

CLASSIFED BY SPI CLEA

(1 - Llalson

Section)

DECLASCIFY CHEAOX(6

1 - Mexico City

NLF/ ako

(5)

10/15/651

Tweet.

NH

50953

DocId:32319387 • Page 5

---

## Page 6

1* 105 3702

merely been introduced at the party as "ALEJANDRO"

• was made on

the basis of correnpondence received by her daughter fro ARIO

Mias GARRO was

to the party.

ITO ARIO ALEJANDRO LAVAGNINI STENIUS was dated 9/1/63 and

posturked 9/3/69, the merely commented that probably the

commnets have facilitien for falsifying posturks.

When LAVAGNINI was Intervlewed, he n umble to 11r

the date of the party but he belleved it was probably early la

September and neither he nor the two acquintances of his who

necompanied him 'to the party could recall any Americana having

been present.

On 12/10/65 while talking to former Foreign Service

Offloer CHARLES ". THOMAS, MISS GARRO claimed that the party

where she had net OSWALD was held at the home of RUBKN DURAN

"In Soptember 1963, whortly alter her return fron abroad" as

reported in Mr. THOMAS' memorandu of 12/10/65.

In her conversation with Mr. THOMAS on 12/25/65 as

reported in his memorandun of that date, Miss GARRO clained that

the believed the party was about September 2 or 3, 1069, " few

days before the vialt of Soviet sstronaut GAGARIN"

Insunuch as the Burenu is in possession of all of Mr.

THOLAS' memoranda concerning ELENA GARRO DE PAZ' story except

his memorandun of 12/10/65 (his nemoranda are dated the date of

Bureau's 11les.

The Bureau w1ll note that all the pertinent

information contuined therein ts set forth In Mexico City cable

sTan of 12/17/65.

Observations

The following le submitted in response to the Bureau's

request regarding my observations of Mr. THOMAS' statemente in

his memorandum furnished to the Secretary of State:

=2-

* Mexico City newspapers show

that Soviet astronaut GAGARIN

was in Mexico from February

8 to 23, 1963.

NH

50953

DocId:32319387 Page

---

## Page 7

MEX 105-3702

GEORET

(1) With regard to paragraph 3 in which he refers to

his neting with me and Mr. WINSTON SCOTT,

then head of CIA,

Mexico:

I first net Mr. THOMAS, one of the officers assigned

to the Politienl Bection of the Embasay on 13/17/65, the day

after I took over as Legal Attache, when Mr. SCOTT told me he

had received a menorancun which he belteved I should see.

was Mr. THOMAS' memorandun dated 13/10/65.

that memorandun was designated for the Ambasandor, tithe Depaty

Chief of Mission, the Politienl Section, Political Research (CIA),

and the Central Blographle Department.

He subsequently furnished

this offlee & copy although that dissemination does not show on

the Embaamy file copy of his memorandur.

In vlew of the nature

of the information, Mr. THOMAS was asked to join Mr. SCOFT and

me in a conference. Since the investigation of the OBVALD case

and been handled by & previous Logal Attache, I remained nor-

committal about the allegations made by Mias GARRO, but pointed

out the Burenu's interest in that case.

It was aleo pointed out

to Ir. Tons that the infornation in his memorandu vas 1n

complete in many respects, Including the fact that Mias GARBO did

not pinpoint the date of the alleged party but described it only ag

"in September 1963, shortly after her return from Europe". He

stated that Mtas CARRO was extremely reluctant to discuss the

Istter and doubted that she would discuss it with anyone else.

He therefore volunteered to raise the subject again with her to

obtain more details. He was thanked at that time for his

cooperation.

(2)

Kegarding paragraph 5 in which Mr. THCHAS stated

"he got no reaction fron Menars. Scort and Yankls regarding hia

memorandom of 12/25/05*

In view of the expressed interest of the Ambasander and

the Deputy Chief of Mission who had received copies of Mr. THOMAS'

memoranda of 12/10 and 12/25/65 in the factualneas of Miss GARBO's

story,

they were advised by memoranda fron this office dated

of the faet that Miss GARBO's allegationa had previously been

checked out without substantiation, no further action was being

taken concerning her recent repetition of those allegatiom.

memoranda were based on Buairtel 12/28/65 and Bulet 2/15/66. Both

-3-

• s4.

NW 50953

Docid: 32919387 Page

---

## Page 8

MEX 105-3702

27

CLUNGI

menoranda were sent on a circulation basis to lr. THOMAS®

muperior, the Counelor for Politienl Alfaire, who also had

received a copy of Mr. THONAS' memorande.

concluded that the Connelor for Political Attalridid hot

route this office's nemorandun of 2/23/66 to Mr. THOMAS or

that Mr: THONAS dood

not recall it.

(3) Regarding paragraph & concerning IT. THOMAB'

Interview w1th ne relative to Miss GARRO again having changed

the date of the alleged party to the end of Beptember:

I never interviewed Mr. TICHAS alone.

The first time

I saw him was in' the presence of Mr. SCOTT.

When he visited

my office I called the Agent to won the case had been sanigned

to come in and alt in on the interview. I did not tell him that

Mine GARRO had given the late September date "aceurately" when

she had cone to the Embassy and made her first report.

I did

tell his that her newly revised date was the same time that she

had given when the came to the Embassy In November 1964 to tell

her story. The investigation conducted at that time, as reflected

in Mexico City letterhead menorandun of 12/11/64, showed that

the late September date was not accurate. Neither did I tell

his that someone else who was at the

party had stated that

there were no Americans there.

Frankly, although I had reviewed

the file after this atter first came up in December 1965, I

did not memorize all of the details and I did not recall this

fact which I did not becone aware of until my current revlew

in connection with Nr. THOMAS' recent allegations.

I tell him that I conaidered the case "closed". I would not

have considered it to be of concern to him whether the case was

tate toil

or too doe

Neither did

closed or not. I did tell him in response to his inquiry, that

it would not be neceanary for him to pursue this mtter any

further with Mias CARRO since we had heard her story before and

it had been checked out without being substantlated

and I

therefore considered her story to be a closed lasse.

(4) Regarding paragraph 9 in which Mr. THOMAS referred

to Mr.

ALLIN WHITE's alleged attement that the Federal Security

Police Interrogation of the DURANs was unsatisfaetory and

comment,

"This transeript may be the source of Mr. FERRIS" bellef

that ELINA GARRO's story had been checked out and

found to be

untrue":

HW- 50953 DocId:32319387 Page

8

---

## Page 9

MEX 105-3702

This statenent is uninforned speculation.

I know

nothing about Mr. WHITE's evaluation of the interrogation of

the DuRAn which so lạr

story about the alleged party not dad tot a to by ta the

CARRO. My "belief" was based on the investigation conducted

by this office as reported in Mexico Clty letter and letterhead

enorandon of 18/11/64, and the Burenu's concurring evaluation

as set forth in Bureau airtel 12/22/65 and Bulot of 3/15/66.

With regard to paragraph 10 in which Mr. THOMAS

commented that "wherean the FBI has discounted BLENA GARRO'&

allegations, the CIA is still considerably disturbed by them":

I an aware of no foundations for this obvervation that

CIA te "still considerably disturbed" by Man GARRO'a story.

MX. WINSTON SCOTT gave absolutely no indieation of such renetions

to ne,

Miss

hat on the contrary indiented that he was well aware of

GARRO's unrellability.

With regard to Mr. THOMAS' claim that CIA may not

have pressed further Investigation for several reasons including

"considering the sensitive overlap and subtle competition between

two intelligence collection agencies, it had to yiold to the

FBI's jurisdietion*:

This can only be deseribed as a product of Mr. THOMAS"

Imagination. During the period in question, relations between

this office and CIA in Mexieo were maintained on a friendly,

mutually cooperative basis with respect for the authority and

responsibilities of the two parent agencies. The principal

function of CIA in Mexico in connection with the investigation

of the OSWALD case was in checking out allegations concerning

possible Cuban sapects through thair establlahed sources and

confidential converage. The remaining polate covered by Mr.

THOMAS under items 2,

3 and &, paragraph 10, are extraneous

to Mias GARRO's story and appear to have been included

gratuitously in his menorandun to the Secretary of State.

(6) With regard to Mr. THOMAS' terminal comment in

paragraph 13 that the records should show that a representative

of a major Anerican publiention has at least some knowladge of

MiSS GARRO's story:

NH 50953

DocId:32319387 Page 9

---

## Page 10

MEX 105-3702

This olfice has no inforation indiesting such to

repeated protestations that she shoula not De Pate jod as the

source of this information, had passed the story on to such an

Individual.

Comments

The signiffence is not known as to why the State

Department disentanted Mr. TICHAS' nemorandun under the subject

"CHARLES WILLIAN THAS", Instend of under the hER HARVSy OstAld

Investigation as

'Mix. THOMAS captioned his memorandum.

It appears that Mr.. THOMAS has undergone a change in

attitude since hin departure from lenieo which de diffieult to

understand.

This my possibly be & reaction to his separation

fron Foreign Service. According to Embinay soarces, Mr. THOMAS

18 believed to have been "selected out", a phrase wind when an

officer is "retired" after having been in one grade for the

mxim pertod of time and is not considered qualified for

promotion to & higher grade. This involuntary separation fron

the Foreign Service my account for his present attitude which

otherwise is difficult to comprehend.

During the time after I took over as Legal Attache on

12/16/65 until his departure from Menice in 1967, I and other

personel of this office had very linited contact with Mr. THOlAS.

Ho was one of various officers assigned to the Political Bection

and although he was tensibly Irlendly, his maigment had

little in common with the work of this office and therefore our

relations, both official and personal, were closer with other

officors in the Politient Section.

the only offieial contret

I had with hin vas in connection with instant matter. Although

at that time he exhibited somewhat of a "detective compler" in

desiring to probe into the story recounted by Mian GARRO, be at

no tine demonatrated i desire to take over the OSVAID Investiga-

tion fron the authorised authorities.

Mr. THOMAS' current attitude as set out in his letter

and manorandon to the Secretary of State dated 7/25/69 18 obvious

from his statement, "Since I was the Embassy officer in Moxico

NH 50953

DocId:32319387

Page

10

---

## Page 11

MEX 105-3702

who acquired this intelligence information, I feel a

responsibility for seeing it through to its final evaluation."

It appears, therefore, that Mr. THOMAS has now decided that he

and not the fBl or the Department of Justice is the one to

decide how the story given by miss Gallo is to be evaluated.

The concept that every person who passes on to another govern-

ment agency information relating to matters within the Jurisdiction

of that agency has the responsibility and authority to review

and evaluate the action taken by that agency is, of course,

untenable.

Further question concerning Mr. THOMAS' judgment is

raised by item 3 of paragraph 10 of his nemorandum furnished to

the Secretary of state.

Any reference to thell

relationship

between the head of CIA Mezico and top Mexican

officials, tf true, is a very highly classified matter and any

"leak" or

revelation to unauthorized individuals concerning such

an arrangement would, in view of the delicate Merican political

situation,

be disastrous to the Mexican Government as well as

to Mezican-American relations.

The delicacy of the situation

has recently been greatly augmented by the published Cuban

allegation that one of

the officers of the lexican Embassy in

Havana was acting as a CIA spy with the knowledge of the Mexican

Government.

Mr. THOMAS, however, Included such a highly

classifled reference in

a memorandun which he classifled only

as "confidential", contrary to regulations relative to classification

of documents.

While this reierence relates to the activities and

operations of another Goverment agency and therefore is not of

primary concern to the bureau, it is nevertheless called to the

Bureau's attention for considoration in evaluating lir. THOMAS'

current allegations.

never than an are g

An additional copy of this letter is being forwarded

for use in the event the Bureau desires to forward a copy to

Dallas which received a copy of referenced letter.

NW 50953 DocId: 32319387

Page

' 11

---

## Page 12

OPTIONAL FOEH NO, 10

5910-103

MAY 1PAZ EDITION

GIA GEN. REG. NO. 28

UNITED STATES GOVERNMET

Memorandum

SECRET

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

February 20, 1969

FROM : iSIC, NEW ORLEANS

(P)

SUBJECT:

SERGEY A. LOSEV

IF - R (TASS KGB)

(Eufile 105-122702)

(NOfile 105-2977)

ARPRUFRIATE AGENCILY

AND FIZES QUFICES

ADVISED BY

ING

SLIP(S)

DATE

This should be

viet

tear

filst

LAM

GENRIKH A. BOROVIK

IS - R (NOVOSTI PRESS AGENCY - KGB)

(Bufile 105-90959)

(NOfile 105-2971)

Re New York airtel to Bureau 1/28/69.

S(4)

Enclosed for the Bureau are 16 copies of an LHM

dated and captioned as above. Five copies of the LHM are

enclosed for New York and two copies each for Atlanta and Boston

This kiM has been classified "SECRET.

TO FOREIGI

DISSEMINATION' due to the sensitive nature of NY

554-S7CS

The first source mentioned in the LM is

the second source is Mr. LOU THOMAS, owner and manager

551-54 6)

Capri Motel, 2424 Tulane Avenue, New Orleans, Louisiana

4 - Bureau (Enc. 16) (RN)

~ Atlanta (Enc. 2) (RM)

2

- Boston (Enc. 2) (RN)

- New York (105-62900) (Enc. 5) (RM)

(2 - 105-43113)

(1 - 100-117844) (MARK LANE)

5 • New Orleans

(2 - 100 - MARK LANG)

JCS:bs

(18)

CLASSIFIED BY 5(68SU0/GcL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X0X6/

(59K1 2/10/99

SECRETI

8(4)

#7742,326

Declassity on: OHDR//3)56

NH 50953 DocId: 32319387

Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET TWI

# N0 105-87: k*(W)

LEADS

PARATA fol

*BOSTON A*(W

At Atzanta, Ceorgla. Will check indices on DoN well

At Boston,

Massachusetts.

• Will determine to whom the

car bearing Massachusetts plate

37 - 018 is registered and

check indices on that person. (*(U)

* NEW YORK

(w)

At New York.

The setting of leads with regard to

the subjects

contacts in Washington, D. C., and New

York is

being left to the discretion of the New York Office.(

NEW ORLEANS

At New Orleans, Louisiana

Will determine

the subscribers to the telephone

numbers which the subjects called while in New Orleans.coul

will determine

to w.om

the car bearing Louisiana

plate 14 B 326 is registered. (u)

Ursuline

3)

Will check indices on the individuals at 922

street,

New Orleans. (u)

7

WH 50953 DocId: 32319387 Page 13

---

## Page 14

In Reply, Please Refer 20

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BURBAL OF INVESTICATION

SECRET

New Orleans

February

Louisiana

20, 1065

SECRET - 10 FOREIGN DISSEMINATION

SERGE" #. LOSEV

GE NRIKH

*. BCROVIK

316321

SPUETATICL

classify on PAOR/ 3/85

On January 2?, 1969 & confidential source, who has

furnished reliabie inforration in the past, furnished informa-

tion which indiceted that sergey A. Losev

both Soviet corcespondence

and Genrikh A. Borovik,

Louisiana, in the rear

pianned to fly to New Orleans,

future,

Losev has a seat reserved

the clay shaw triäi in New Orleans (S(U)

The New Or leans

states-Item, a.New Orleans, Louisiana,

daily newspaper of February 5, 1969,

contains an artiole cap

tioned "NAMING OF LAST SHAW JUROR IS BELIEVED NEAR.

In this

article it was stated that Clay L, Shaw is to go on trial in

Criminal District Court on charges of conspiring so kill

president Jong F, M:

1962.

Accorone 50 736

whe was shot to desth on November 22,

to go

into

sicle, the selection of s jury was

alternate

a lick siren debrissy

1969, sad that one more

has

" se serested. (8Xu)

States-ltem of

February 12,

1964,

Ta" chadd od Ciay Shaw cortinues

the

Orleans par so Crimes? Courts Building in New Orieans

SECHEZ= NO LOREIGN DISSEMINAZION

Exits

This cucumar

oF

YOu#

1!..

Yor

15

conclusions

loaned

distributed

NH 50953

DocId: 32319387 Page 14

---

## Page 15

SE

BREI

SECRET NO FOREICN DISSEMINATION

SERGEY A. LOSEV

GENRIKH A. BOROVIK

On January 31, 1969, a second confidential source,

who has furnished reliable information in the past,

advised that

Sergey Losev

and Genrish Borovik had made reservations at the

Capri Motel,

2410 Tulare Avenue, New Orleans, Louisiana, start-

ing on February 3, 1962.

This source stated

that there

indication how long losev ind Borovik intended to stay in New

Orleans. Accordine

to tas source, Borovik and Losev are stay

ing in rooms 209 and 206, respectively, at the Capri Motel. (u

On February 3, 1969, Special Agents of the Federal

Bureau of Investigation

observed Sergey A. Losev and Genrikh

Borovik deplane from Eastern Airline Flight 63 at 6:45 p.m. at

New Orleans International Airport, Moisant Field, and subse

quently take a taxi to the Capri Motel, 2424 Tulane Avenue,

New Orleans, Louisians.

and Losey entered room 210.(=)(U)

out entered room 209 at the motel

From Fobrua:: 4, 1069, through February 8, 1969, and

February 10, 1969, Alon Pebruary 12, 1969, Borovik and Losev

were

observed by Specir

"wears of che Federal Bureau of Inves

tigation entering the deans Parish Criminal courts BuIlding.

Broad Street and Tiar. Arance, New Orleans, Louisiana. BE(U)

On February 4,

1069, Special Ageats of the FBI

observed

Borovik and loser it, 6:01 p.m. at the corner of

Bourbon and Canal Stracte, New Orleans, where they met Mark

Lane and

an unknown tear. whe was with lane. Borovik and

Losev spent over stue. notes in the company of Lane and the

unkaown female.

Mark Taw and she unknown female were ob=

served entering the

Orleans, Louisiana,

«(u)

Load at 523 Dumaine Street, New

Mark Lan i:

well-known author and lecturer

On Februa."

observed depart

969,, Special Agents

of the FBI

abor the

building

at 922 Ursuline

at 7:04 p.r.,

and they

were

boidding at 10:55 p.i, with an

= (4)

NH 50953 DocId: 32319387 Page

15

---

## Page 16

(e)

SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION

SERGEY A. LOSEV

GENRIKH & • BOROVIK

unknown white male:

All three men were observed entering a

1969 Ford Mustang

with Louisiana license 343 B 379,

and they

drove to the Capri Motel where they entered Borovik's room.

On February i?, 1969, a Special Agent of the FBI

observed the following rames on mail boxes at 922 Ursuline

Street, New Orleans:

Madeline A. Ehrlich - proprietor

Mr. and Mrs. Jud James

Dr. and Mrs. J. Brenner

Mr. M. Waldron

R. Crowover

On February 12, 1969, Miss Julie Timbrello, Station

Manager,

Hertz Rent A Car, 1540 Canal Street,

New Orleans,

Lo. isiana, advised SA John C. Seaton that a 1969 Ford Mustang

with Louisiana license 343 B 379 had been rented from her

company on February 9, 1969, to Don Mckee, Atlanta, Ceorgia,

of the Associated Pres:.

Miss Tinbrello advised that the car

1s still under rental to him. (lu)

Borovik and losey were

observed by Special Agents of

the FBI on February 12, 1969, at 6:50 p.m. at the Capri Motel.

They removed their luggage and put it in an automobile bearing

Massachusetts license I 31 • 018 which was driven by an unknown

white nale. There was also an unknown white female passenger

in the car. Borovik and losev entered the car and they drove

to a house opposite 4363 Owens Drive,

New Orleans.

AlL four

people entered this house.

In the driveway outside

this house

was a car bearing Louisiana license 14 B 326.

At 9:06 F.M.

all four people departed from this house and entered tne

0a Febr:a:1

1969, Special Agents

observed Lose are Bondia

hoerd Eastern

Airlines

Faieht

Which was scarduird to

mport from New

Or leans at

10: 10

for New York.

late

actually deported toor ted Orleans

10:50 F.m. (Slu)

FOREIGN DISCEN

TUATION

3

* (U)

NH 50953 DocId: 32319387 Page 16

---

## Page 17

SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION

SERGEY A. LOSEV

GENRIKH A. BOROVIK

1969,

that Borovik

The second confidertial source advised on February 14,

while he was

had called the following telephone numbers

in New Orleans:

Da te

Felephone Number

Location

February 3, 1969

212-817 1227

New York

February 5, 1969

212-877 1227

New York

529 5333, Ext. 475

New Orleans

February 6, 1969

212-877 1227

New York

February 7, 1969

524 0356

New Orleans

February 9, 1969

February 10, 1969

February Ii, 1969

524 2411

New Orleans

Incoming call from Moscow, Russia

529 2754

February 12, 1969

529

2754

New Orleans

New Orleans

• 525

0422

New Orleans

The secoad confidentiai source on February 14, 1969,

advised thet losey had called the following telephone numbers

while he was in New Orleare:

Da te

Februacy 5, 1969

Telephone Number

Location

Collect New York credit card #154258

Collect New York credit card #155804

202-682 5829

Washington, D.

C.

NO BORGAON DESSEREATION

0(4)

NH 50953

DocId: 32319387

Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECRET • NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION

SERGEY A. LOSEV

GENRIKH

A. BOROV IK

(u)

Date

February 6, 1969

February 12, 1969

Te le phone Number

UN 5-5864

Location

New York

Collect call Credit Card #154258

525-0422

New Orleans

18041

POREIGN

E/REWRATION

30953

DooId: 32319387

Page

18

---

