# 124-10367-10027

## Page 1

124-10367-10027

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY :

• FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

124-10367-10027

HQ

134-10900-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

NY

HQ

DATE: 09/13/1963

' PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

ERNESTO ARAGON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS :

1A

• CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

v9.1

HN 50953

DocId: 32318864

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ELS INFOFVITTON CONTAINED

* DE SIS DIESTS. DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

CONFIDENTIAU

SECRE

43/03

HA HAS NO BEJECTION T

SAC, NEW YORK (105-35253)

DECLASDIRICATION ANCIOR,

Вут / Тал

DECLASSIFIED BE +1.6.

RELEASE OF CIA MUFOAUMAVION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

ANTI - FIDEL CASTRO ACIIVITIES

IS - CUBA

312 98

НЕРЕ

NOMATION CONTAINSAA+ 2/64

MATED

CLASSIFIED BY SIS SCORSECES

SHOWN

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

RAISE

The following Information te no SEC

being submitted

in a form suitable for dissemination because disclosure

of this information could be decrimental to the best

interests of the United States.

The enclosed Information

1s being submitted for the guidance of the Bureau, Miami

and WFO relative to the above captioned subject matter.

Dr. ERNESTO ARAGON Y GODOY, 233 Bast 69th Sireeü,

New York City, forner member of the Cuban Revolutionary Council

(CRC) and close associate of Dr. JOSE MIRO CARDONA of che

CRC, on 7/30/63 advised that he had difficulty in obtaining

employment since the disbanding of the CRC in April, 1963,

after MIRO CARDONA resigned as President of the CRC.

ARAGON stated that in submitting to an Interview with

two nationally known insurance companies, he had been

informed by them in letters stating their reluctance to

hire him because he was too closely identified with the

KENNEDY Administration and these companies felt that this

3

relationship would be harmful to his employment with the

companies

(4)

ARAGON giated that as a result of failure to obtain

ganful employment and as a result of the aforementioned letters

which he received, he requested and received an interview with

Attorney General ROBERI F. KENNEDY. ARAGON stated that the

Attorney General informed him that he would do everything

possible in order to assist ARAGON in obtaining some type

of employment.

144-90-1636-236

Classiher

Betastify on: OAR 4/2/844

Bureau (109-584)

(RM)

1-

Miam1 (105-1742

INFO, (RM)

Washingion Field

405-29995)

ew York 1134-7027

New

York (105-3525 4V.

PJO: ChJ

(5)

SEGR

(INFO) (RM)

- 10100

NOT COCORDED

202 SEP 25 1963

.?.

FILED IN 104-584

ORIGINAL

HH 50953

DocId: 32318864 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 105-35253

CONFIDEN AD

EOMFIDENTI

ARAGON also advised on 7/30/63 that he had taken

an examination in Washington, D.C. during the latter part

of July, 1963, at the United

States Department of State in

order to obtain a job from this department as an

interpreter and translator.

ARAGON advised that he had

just received wora that he had passed the examination anc

she the State Department

contemplated utilizing his services

within the next few weeks.

ARAGON also advised that this

Job as an interpreter and translator for the United States

Department of State would entail his travelling with visitors

from Latin America to various states and to various

universities throughout the United States.

ARAGON advised tha

he would receive a fixed daily amount plus $20.00 a day

expenses lor each day he worked for the state department ir

ine capacity of a translator and interpreter. lu,

ARAGON further stated on 7/30/63 that due to his

past close association with the Bureau ,and his confidence and

trust in the Bureau although he had been instructed not

to disclose his association, nevertheless, he wanted the

Bureau to know that as of 8/1/63 he would be placed on the

payroll of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), at the sum

of $300.00 per month plus expenses. ARAGON advised that he

had been asked to perform certain assignments for CIA and

had been told that he may, at times, have to travel for the

agency to meet and interview certain people for them.

ARAGON requested that his connection with CIA be held in

the strictest of confidence andunder no circumstance should

the

fact

that he disclosed this connection be mentioned to

CIA. A(U)

ARACON on 9/4/63, was contacted at which time ne

stated that he already had had one assignment from the

State Department to travel with a couple of students from

Bolivia who were visiting in Washington, D.C.

He also

stated that he expected another assignment from them within axweek

ARAGON also advised on 9/4/63, that he has made two

trips to toronto, Canada, for CIA in order to contacti

SONADENTIAD

ECRET

-2-

CORFIDE

SAL

105A

HW 50953 DocId:32310864 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 105-35253

CON: TO0K TIM

CONFIDENTIAI

SECRET

«(4)

ARAGON stated that he had contacted

him Iram havana and througn

whereby the CIA would be' in regular contact with

who also works forl

one out an arrancement es

our who is now living in Toronto,

canada.

ARAGON advised from his various meetings with

representatives of the United States Department of State,

CIA and the Department of Defense and from contacts among

Cuban exile groups,

that he is of the opinion that the

Anti-CASTRO movementni at the present time is back in

the same situation it was in prior to the invasion of

Cuba in April, 1961.

ARAGON advised, chat by this

statement, he meant that once again the CIA is

acting independently ofother Governmental Agencies and

that their activities at the present time are greatly

increased and they report to no one and only advised

responsible individuals after a certain mission has been

carried. out.

ARAGON stated once again the United States

State Department is confined to matters of a political

and economic nature relative to Cuba while the Department

of Defense is closely watching any milliary activity &

(п)

in Cuba.

ARAGON advised that from his own knowledge he is

absolutely positive that the following organizations are

being completely supported by the CIA:

1.

Unidad Revolucionaria - This organizationo

is headed by JOSE F. RODRIGUEZ ESPADA and MARIO

SEIGLE.

ARAGON stated that this organization,

in recent months, has done a tremendous job in

getting out a newspaper, booklets and various forms

of propaganda which are sent all over Latin America

and are printed in both English and Spanish. ARAGON

also advised that they have put out a booklet

listing the arrivals and departures of all foreign

ships to and from Cuba. ARAGON stated that the

work done by the organization is very impressive

and undoubtedly it has cost a large sum of money

which obviously comes from CIA:

CONEY

-3-

NH 50953 DocId:32318864 Page 4

---

