124-90135-10090)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/2/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90135-10090
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —_ 105-82298-NR
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM: CIA
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 04/10/1964
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret ~
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: | APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: = MEMO.

v9.1
HW 50953 DocId: 32336695

Page 1


on

wk

H . 8 i
“SGENTRAL INTELLIGENCE Fetes, : Ei i aad
ASHINGTON 25, D.C.

GIA HAS NO OBJECTION To

DECLASSiFH

ee RELEASE On cr ONOIOR, 10 ARR 1964:
; IN THIS DocuMeNT. CaMarioN
MENT, EX ee Banokers.
ii qa"

Se- 9
TO : Director K cn 48 (JF4) {

: Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich ii
: : iW
FROM t Deputy Director for Plans \w Hi
SUBJECT : Information Received from Jose ALONSO |
“Costolla . i
é i poe

1. A representative of this Agency received the .
following information from a fairly reliable source who in
turn received the information on 20 January 1964 from :
Jose ALONSO Costolla (Al2 829 244), born 17 July 1931 in,
Habana, Cuba, and is currently residing at 2940 N.E, 2nd.
Avenue, Miami, Florida ., : ye

a. Arnaldo GUANAGA Barron, ‘a United States he

. citizen who resides at 208 West 88th Street,

* New York, New_York, is a Communist. GUANAGA
according to ©
Avenue, Bronx, New York, went to iCuba via Mexi
but said that this information is not generally |

known.

é

b.

Sere tre brother !of Francisco

MOLINA, aka El Gancho, was recently arrested in

New York on a counterfeit charge,

Nicolas is

the owner of a restaurant

own as. "E}, Recreo"

which is a hangout for_Eloy GUTIERREZ Menoyo
and his group. Also, Enri ‘EVEZ, who was
involved in the same counterfeit charge as L
Nicolas MOLINA, is now in Cuba, having returned :
via Mexico. 141 APR 16 1964 ;

ALL FBI INFORMATION GonTAINED

HEREIN JS

The records of this Agency reveal no identigiable— —
There are many traces
due to a lack

2.

information on GYANAGA and ESTEVEZ.

on ith variations, however,

of “identify nformation it is not possible to determine
ae af

a by
© 4 HAY 25 gg

GROUP 1
fraxy automatic]

SECRET.

| NW 50953 Docla:32336695 Page 2


am
+ ASairs
oy
© ! \

whether the paragraph la above is
identical. with any of th® individuals_that, appeared in f
the traces. If requested, traces on will be a |
forwarded to the addressees. $s) i

3. The records of this-Agency reveal that Nicolas \
, MOLINA, paragraph lb above, is probably identical with 4
“Nicolas MOLINA del Rio, born 29 September 1928 in Habana, i
Cuba, who was at one time of interest to this Agency; he
has not been contacted by this Agency since 1961. The
records also reveal that MOLINA has been subject of a
number. of Bureau reports.

CSCI-3/780 , 833 ‘ :
etme ’ ‘ j !
Ef i,

cc; Department of State 4
Immigratiop and. Naturalization Service ny

|
i

oh
i
f
3
;
i
|
iH

| HW 50953 DocId:32336695 Page 3
