# 124-90137-10089

## Page 1

124-90137-10089

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/16/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90137-10089

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-83798-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PAPICH

TO : FROHBOSE

TITLE :

DATE: 03/02/1960

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

GENERAL JOSE ELEUTERIO PEDRAZA Y CABRERA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : Open in Full

CURRENT STATUS :

Release

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/09/1999

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: • MEMO

19.1

NH 50953

2

DocId: 32337323

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

aison

Little

COPIES MADE

DATE

4-9-78 BY

PApich

FOR ISN

4-28

TREC 97-3268,15

[CIA

VAR

10/2759

I effectio

Date:

July 14, 1959

To:

Director

61(6)

6/9/98

Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

From:

John Edgar Hoover, Director

2393 , 9803 ende

subject.

MARCO AURELIO SIMPSON GUERRERO

INTERNAL SECURITY • NICARAGUA

Vile

WAIT

2, 326

JFK

5668 SLD

KSTES

Reference is made to your "Information Report"

_3-17-95

A, dated March 26,

1959, your number CS-3/392,904, captioned

"Nicaraguen Exile Activity in Cuba" which disclosed that

(JFK)

L Chester Simpson had arrived in Havana a short time before.

ShiVATION

There is enclosed one copy each of the report of

Special Agent M. Wesley Swearingen, dated June 26, 1959, at

Chicago, Illinois, and subject's photograph.

!..

It is noted that in the enclosed report subject's

former wile advised that subject left Chicago in February, 1959,

and his destination was not knoun

It is further noted that

the enclosed report contains the full name of the subject and

known aliases.

NA

CIA

DECL

RELE/.U2

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

5.13

Tolson

Belmont

De Loach

McGuire

Mohr -

Parsons

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan -

Tele. Room

Holloman

Gandy

It is requested that this Bureau be advised of any

information contained in your files on the subject regarding

his past activities, particularly information indicating he

has been engaged in Nicaraguan revolutionary activities.

is also reguested that through your established sources

Nicaragua, you endeavor

and if he

to determine the subject's hereabouts

has been active in Nicaraguan revolutionary

activittes and

the nature of subject's activity and

where engaged.

Enclosures - 2

$ 8 1L 14

1 - Chicago. (105-6296)."•

HUL bms mIg (6)

COMN ÷ FRI

NOTE: & Classified "secret"

inasmuch as letter makes reference

to CrA's

operations abroad which CIA has requested be classified

"Secret.

JUL 2 0 1959

MAIL ROOM

SECRET

TELETYPE UNIT

AW 50953

DocId:32337323 Page 2

---

