# 124-90139-10046

## Page 1

124-90139-10046|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/21/201

AGENCY:

FBl

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90139-10046

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-210-4140

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: HQ

TO :

CIA

TITLE:

DATE: 03/12/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST RE VIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

LET

v9.1

NH 50953

DooId: 32337919

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SEC

CIOUCO9AYTO

ALL INFORM

HEH11N0

WHERE DAUNN OTHERIASES.

LOCREE

FOR REVIEW AT FBINO MAD/OR DELIVERY

TO MSCA RE REGUAST DATED

(USE BUFILE 62-117290)

BY COURIER

Mr.

HI.

MT .

Belmont

Evans

Sullivan

Do J.

Brennan

ME.

Wannall

SERVICE

March 12, 1963

I = Mr. Mullins

Honorable John A. McCono

Director

Central Intolligonco Agency

Washington

25,

D.

C

28-94

Classince lay 2802 Root

endlessly on:

10738-0,034

L1 8Va

Dear Hr. AcCone:

CO (U)

Reference de made

to prior conversatione

between coputy Director Marshal

and Assistant Diroctor W.

. Go.

Sullivan of this,

1: Camax o you Andy

concerning an offor by the

Mexico

to cooperate with the united Statos

Cover

mattors oi interest im the Cuban

flold.

ment

concerning

40

A menorandus containing

interview

a surpary ot an

which our reprosontatis

held with

in lexico City,

the

enclosed.

Larch 6,.

1963

As requested by

Deputy

Direotor Carter

Mr. Winaton Scott of your Moxico

City Derica te briora

concerning

this matter prior to

1963

the intorvlow on March 6.

BY COURIER SVO.

2 6 MARTS NO OBJECTION TO

sinceroly yours,

JECLASS FICATION AND/OR,

COME HAS TO CANT PRAP Andra

Enclosure

1 - 105-114962

Tolson

Belmont .

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

8/5/98

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

769

202)

Tele. Room

Holmes

NO 5 MAR 20L 198

0(6)

12-15-90

(JER

15

(Bluebeard)

SECRET

Excluded Iron autonatic

sug and

declassiticatson

SEE NOTE, PAGE THO

A-_COPIES MADE

To tele 10/08

TELETYPE UNIT

TO HSCA RE REQUEST DATED.

(SEE BUFILE 62-117290).

UNRECORDED

HW 50953 DocId:32337919 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECREI

Honorable John A. Melone

NOTE:

ZECHEL

Classified "Secrot" since this involves delicate

negotiations between us and high foreign diplonet.

At tho

time CIA agreed FBI should accept the

offer the would not agreo to

cooperate with anyose olse).

CIA requested

thot Mr.

Scott

telling the

were seconting his offe

Copies of menorandun being rurnished separatoly to

Ittorney General (with copies to Deputy

Attorney General

and Ascistant Attorney General Yeagley

and to Deputy

Under Socretary of State Johnson,

--

• 2a

REBEL

noalo'!

w. tnomles

_ IdoM

- TEARDO

- bDino.)

- Monolo(l

- eIDD

19809

— acvillu?

lovoT

istfort

_ somloH

HW

50953

DocId: 32337919 Page 3

---

