# 124-90138-10038

## Page 1

124-90138-10038

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90138-10038

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-5-8916

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

TO:

CIA

USAF

TITLE:

DATE: 08/08/1961

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

VICENTE GIRONA JULBE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH

50953

DooId: 32337769

Page 1

---

## Page 2

5-95

5668500

12-15-56

Classified

SECRET

RECEIVED: FROM CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

L'

AUG 9

CIA SOR

TO: *

Director

of Special Invectigations

Inspactor General

UBAIT

Attention:

Ix :

Gilbort. R. Lavy

8 AUG 1961

Director

Federal Bureau of

Attention:

dir, B. J. Papieh

FROM:

Deputy Director,

Plans

SUBTION: VICente GIRONA/Jube

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIPCATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT EXCEPT

BRACKETS

KP 5-12-98

NAME CHECK

SID /KSR

6-14-48

(JFK)

This Agoricy was recently in receipt of Information from

Subject which may

Intezest to the eddressoos.

follows

Subjeot was born on 5 August 1910 1ri the Province of

Ce8t:010

Spein;

the son of Miguel and Teresa, who

then had a pornanent residence in Monrovia, Iberia.

He carries a Sponica National Identity document

#36989661; place of issuance illegible.

reported

OADR

that subject was formerly a Colonel In the American

Air Force but lost his retirement pension from the

USAY becouse of his work as an Air Force Inatzuctor 1n

Venezuela during the reign of Marcos Peres Jimenez.

Is divorced and has a son residing in Canado, also

pilot in the UBAr:

Dachas

Subject, who is presently rooiding in the Canary Inlands,

drew attention to himself when it was revealed he carried

both Spanish and "Worth American"s passports.

He appeared

to bave plenty of money but lived aloue and avoided all

social contact.

Il there lo any information on Subject in the files of

the addresseas, it would be appreciated if it would be forwarded

to this Agency.

1961

10

AUG

is conned to moan united states, but our report reterred or

UNO 10 3 18 6H NEC- 3202-5-8916

Cs

CI 3/766,581

18 AUG IQ 1961

8-17-61

SECBELIS

At. SEC.

NAN

HW 50953

DocId: 32337769

Page 2

---

