# 124-10284-10171_1

## Page 1

124-10284-10171|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10284-10171

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-83720-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BARRON, JOHN R.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/31/1959

PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS :

EPE, INTV, ARVIER, MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL, AKA

EMP. RES, ASSOC, POLIT, INTEL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF INS, CIA

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO INS

v9.1

NH 50953

13

DocId: 32303659

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263* Rey. 3-3-59):

-!

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIA

iTITLE OF CASE

MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL

ARVIERS

aka Maria Vendizabal

"Nehe"

Mendizabad

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

188 36/59

10/9 - 12/28/59

REPORT MADE BY

JOHN R. BARRON

CHARACTER. OF CASE

INTERNAL

SECURITY

REGSTRATION

ACL

TYPED EY

ems

GOBA

CUBA

RETENENCHS

BUted

to Miamd

Ostober 9, 1959.

17-91152-13

Miami

letter to Director, Novenber 4, 1959-1-945--11

Malaund,

report or SA

JOHN DO BARRON, November 23. 1959,

captioned: UNSUBS; MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ - VICTIM,

KIDNAFPING - CONSPIRACY (BUrIe 709452).

1/5/46

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SID/GCL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

copies made o

Off Inner

LEADS

ALL INFOPMATION CONDAINED

HDRETD 22 UNOGASSIFIED

EXCEEE KERAG SHOWN

OTHERWISE

REQUEST OF BUREAU

xie Bugle 62-117290

The Bureau 1s requested to

reder instant

matter

the Department for decision regarding the

subject's activities

while employed as a

secretary to

ex-Venezue an president MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ and

regarding her

admission that she turnished in ormation

tO ALBERTO BAYO, JR, described In Instant report,

concerning information obtained during her employment.

exists a possible violation of the Registration

over which this Bureau has jurisdiction

SPECIAL AGENT

APPROVED

COPIES M

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

CIA HAS NO OBJS

TION, TO

- Bureau (RM)

DECLASSIFICAT/ON AND/ORS.

832201

And a far gie big te

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

2 109-2631

3. - New York (RM)

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

11-7-877 - 1010 EUpT IP 5 pg.

AND pe

JAN

6

C (BRACKETS)

• 62-11817

JM 6-25-91

OPIES DESTROYED

INS,

New Jork

NO.

A-1d039008)

'8-1-97

giC.

4 - Miamd

3 Notoriors 13 1974€

12 - 97-300; 1 - 7-475FK)

1: 409, 39

StAte LiA, 62, ON, CS!

AVE

12

life DOVER LAN

7

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN/0G- 285-

REC- 26

EX-I17

SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR

ADD. DISSRIMINALION

fito

NI SECREN

NH 50953

DocId: 32303659 Page 2

---

## Page 3

VM 97-300

SECRED

MIAVIT

FLORIDA

Will report the decision rendered by the

Departuent.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Information soples

have been turnished the

New York Office, Inasmuch as the subject of this

investigation was formerly employed as a secretary

to ex-Venezuelan president MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ, whom

the New York OffIce

currently investigating.

This investigation 18 being placed in a

pending inactive status, pending departmental decision

concerning the subject's activities

while she was

employed as a secretary to ex-Venezuelan president

MARCOS PEREZ JIVENEZ

The Bureau is advised that investigation

appearing in this report conducted prior to october 9,

1959, was made concerning the subject inasmuch as she

was suspected of plotting against MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ

to arrange his abduction, the detalls of which have

been reported In reference Miami report dated November 23

1959 (Buf1le 79452).

MM F-2, utilized in the detalls of this

report was interviewed by Special Agents JOHN R.

BARRON and WILLIAM B.

HOLLONAN, Lat which timel

a CrA intormant in Favana (6

LBERTO BAYO, JR. (

The Bureau is advised that ald informants

famillar with latin American activities were contacted,

and no information was received Indicating that the

subject was active in cuban intelligence

activities

Bo

• COVER PAGE

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32303659 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NOV 97-300

SECRED

The Interviews appearing In this report with

MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ, DI. CARLOS SISO, and the subject

Miami case file 7-475, captioned:

JIVENEZ - VICTIM: KLDNAPPING - CONSPIRACY (Buf1le 7-9452).

INFORMANTS

IDENTITY

MM I-1 18 (CIA, Havana, (8(U)

Information contained

In Butel to Miami dated

october 9, 1959

VY 7-2 15

(3) admitted CIA Informant 1n°

Havana:

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL

INFORNATTION

7-475-9

Instant report, page 7.

NT3 IS JANET SUMMERS,

District Manager's Clerk,

Southern Bell Telephone

and Telegraph Company,

Miami Beach, Florida

(nature of

information

instant report, page

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed in this report, and they were con-

cealed only in those instances

be concealed.

where identities must

12.

- COVER PAGE

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32303659

Page 1

---

## Page 5

004 98-300

OCTOPer Ca 19940

advased that

ALBERTO BAYO,

arrector of A1

Havana, Cuba,

revealed

In early

August, 1959 that

MENDEZABAL, subsequently Identified

33 MARTA JOSEFA

WENDIZABAL ARVIER

Melteate

Mam, and that

in fifteen days,

there would be an

announcement in

the press

PICH JIMENEZ.

YM 1-2

advised that he obaered the subject an ine office of

ALBERTO BAYO,

on three

0008810n8](5)

The following Information was ebtained in

connection with investigation concering another matter:

October 29, 1959, MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL

ARVIER waS Intervieved at Mart, Florida, by Special

AgEntS CHARLES W.

EDALSLON and

JOHN R. BARRON

MARIA JOSEFA VENDIZABAL ARVIER, 1951 Parke

Avenues

Apartwent 11,

want Beack, Florida, after

being

advised

of her right

to be represented by counsel. that

anything she might say could be used against her

in a

count oL Law,

stated that she was born on Novenber 26,

1916, at Havanag

Cika.

MENDABAL stated that she arrived

In the

United States on August 15, 1959, aboard Cubana Airliness

which departed Havana,

Cuba,

a6 approxuately 5:30 pm.

on August 15, 1959

She stated that upon her arrival

at the Miami International Alrport.

she was met by Dr.

CARLOS SO and INES DAIL a3 WeLL a8 2 friend of Dr.

sIso, Introduced to her as CARLOS POLIO fLA.

NENDIZABAL advised that prior to her arrival

In Miam1g

she had received

& Letter IroN INES DAVIA

In the early part of August: 1959,

Thereia DAVILA

advised her that PEREZ JIMENEZ,

es Venezuelan

president, was seeking the services of a reliable and

competent

secrebary.

she stated DAVILA in her letter

to her asked in she

would

be Interested in this position

to which she subsequently

replied that she would

accept

the position as

secretary tO PERE. JIMENEZ,

she

was

heavily in debt

In Cuba

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32303659 Page 5

---

