# 124-10226-10290

## Page 1

124-10226-10290

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/3/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10226-10290

HQ

2-1499-139

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/13/1968

PAGES:

43

SUBJECTS :

FS, CORRELATION SUMMARY, AKA, SEE REFERENCES,

ASSOC, MRR, MIRR, ANTI-CASTRO ORGANIZATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

V9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32300010

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(continued)

FAR.

MDC

MIRR

MRR

SISS.

SECRET

Cuban Revolutionary Air Force

Movimiento Democrata Cristiano

(Christian Democratic Movement)

Movimiento Insurrecional De

Recuperacion Revolucionaria

(Insurrectional Movement of Revolution-

ary Recovery)

• Movimiento De Recuperacion Revolucion-

aria (Movement for Revolutionary

Recovery)

..Senate Internal Security Subcommittee

* ****

On 7/29/58, the Miami Office reported that MM 639-S had

advised previously that J. Allan Kilgore, Rex (Inu), and Frank (Inu),

chree Americans and Us Marine Corps veterans, had been engaging in ar

operation of collecting arms and

ammunition for Alonzo Hidalgo, one of

the July 26 Action Group leaders in Miami

CUBA

On 7/28/58, Legat, Havana, telephonically advised that

Frank Florini

was in jall in havana, having been arrested by Cuban

authorities in connection with driving a car that was,

being watched by

Cuban authorities in connection with arms movements uL

It was noted that the Legat might desire to Interview

Florini.

US Customs was to be advised of Fiorini's whereabouts.

Add. info.

275336-754 p.1,2; encl.p. 1

SECREI

- 3-

50953 DocId: 32300010 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

The synopsis of Miämi report dated 8/5/58, captioned

"July 26 Revolutionary Movement, Miami" (97-3244) set out Frank Anthony

Florini as one of the leading members of the action group within that

Movement. Details of the report failed to substantiate this information

In that the name of Frank Anthony Fiorini was not mentioned in the

information therein pertaining to these members; however, information

was included indicating that Frank Anthony Fachetti was a member of

this July 26 Action Group.

On 4/28/58, MM 639-S advised that Gabriel Navarette of

2160 S.W. 4th Street, Miami

Frank (Inu) was living with Navarette at that address.

On 4/29/58, MM 639-S advised that Frank Fachetti, about

23 or 24 years of age, 6' tall, black hair, dark complexion, -talian

extraction, and from the NYC area, was residing at 2160 S.W. 4th Street.

MM 639-S advised that Fachetti reportedly fought in Cuba with the rebels

in the Sierra Maestra mountains against the government forces of Cuba

and that he now was working with Sergio Sanjenis in the Miami

purchasing arms for a possible future smuggling operationa

On 4/30/58, Wallace Shanley, US Customs, Miami, advised he had

obtained information that Frank Anthony Fachetti,

between 25 and 28 years of age, black wavy hair, 180-190 pounds, was

residing at 2160 S.W. 4th Street and had been seen driving with

Navarette in a 1950 Plymouth, 1958 Florida license # 1-115646. According

WaLlace shanton yet seen driving

white male, 6 tall,

to records of the Dade County Auto Tag Agency,

this license was listed

to Richard M. Kedziora, 35 N.W. 58th Street, Miami.

Add. info.

+687 0-32327019 2-86257

Correlator's Note: Foregoing Information on Frank (lnu)

and Frank Anthony Fachetti Is being included as possibly

pertaining to Frank Anthony fiorini, subject of this

summary; however, information is insufficient to positively

establish this fact.

This reference sets out background data on Frank Florini, aka

Frank Sturgis

from files

of the Norfolk, Virginia Police Department,

REVIEWED BY

BYJFK TASK FORCE

23.97 dal

(continued)

ON

RELEASE IN FULL

-4-

RELEASE IN PART

I . TOTAL DEMIAL

_ SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32300010 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

class

CIA report relating to the reaction of Cuban exiles in

Costa

Rica following the successful overthrow of Fulgencio Batista on

12/31/58 - 1/1/59, under FIBLD COMMENTS reported information obtained

Costa Rican Immigration lists. This included Information(C)

that on 1/3/59, a special flight, airline unspecified, took 8. Cubans

an ends estizen, Prank Angelo Florini, to dantlago de Cuba.

109-480-1666 p. 2

(24)

Andrew Szentgyorgyi (protect identity), who had just returned

From about six weeks in havana,

Cuba, on a special assignment for "Life"

magazine, advised a New York Office Agent on 2/19/59 that while ir

Havana he ran across several Americans, one of whom was Frank Florini,

Captain in the Rebel Air Force, who intended to stay in Cuba.

109-581-12 encl.p.9

(167

information relating

On 3/23/59, Michael R. Moreno, a Miami photographer, furnished

to the arrest and

questioning of Moreno, Robert Daut

and richard calle by the Department of Logistics (109-590) In, Cuba, on

or about 3/5/59. Moreno and Daut, a Miami pilot, who were enroute

British Honduras on business, were met in Havana

acquaintance, and these three proceeded to the cuban Air force Sane at

Camp Columbia to obtain clearance to proceed to British Honduras.

It was here they were held by military police and while guns were pointed.

at the three men, Frank Florini happened along and told Moreno and his

companions not to worry as he would get them off.

Moreno said they never

saw Florini again.

Add. info.

109-590-0 p. 20,33

(18.42)

On 4/20/59,

at Police Headquarters, Habana, Cuba, Lawrence

Eugene Hall (105-78016), a US citizen, advised that he arrived in

Habana on 3/19/59. He then met Captain Frank Fiorint, an American

with the Revolutionary Air Force.

Hall said his purpose in coming to

Cuba was

to join the Revolutionary Forces and that after explaining

his purpose he was introduced by Fiorini to a Lieutenant Duany and to

a Cuban lady known only as "Lucy.

many identified himself

as a member

of the "13th of March Movement"®

1905-78016-6 encl.p.2

(11/

-7-

SECRET

2-1499-139

NH 50953 DocId: 32300010 Page 1

---

## Page 5

SECRET

Andrew Szentgyorgy'"(protect Identity), 104 Pearsall Drive,

Mount Vernon, NY, advised on 4/3/59 that he had

returned recently to

the Us from a month's trip to Havana, Cuba. In Havana he met and

spoke with Frank Fiorini who had been

active with the Castro movement

in the US in supplying arms to Castro's forces in the mountains.

Szentgyorgyl stated that at the present time Fiorind was Chief of

Security for the Cuban Air Force.

109-480-1798 encl.p.1

(16%

On 6/19/59, MM 635-S advised that he and Douglas Leftbright

(ph), a canadian serving in the cuban Air Force, had been sent to Miami

several days previously by the Cuban Air Force to Sabotage a P-51

airplane which allegedly had been dropping anti-Castro leaflets over

cuba.

plane at Fort Lauderdale and were in the

proximity of the plane; however, they had no intention whatsoever of

actually going through with this mission. On 6/20/59, James Byers

protect identity, Assistant Sales Manager, Aerodex,

Miami National

Airport, advised that Leftbright,

along with a member of the Cuban

Air Force (not further identified), had come to the

tertbright sald that he and his companion had just "pulled of? a deal"

Cuban Air Force,

had been sent to Miami on another mission

they had spent a lot of money but accomplished nothing; and that they

probably would attempt to take credit for the deal which had been

executed by Leftbright and his companion

0b-5511-15

'.P.3

Information concerning the late 1958 - early 1959 activities

of frank fiorini was brought out during SISS (62-88217) hearings

involving the testimony of Ricardo Luis Lorie y Valls, Cuban citizen, in •

Executive Session, on 7/24/59 at Miami Beach, Florida, and of Dr. Juan

Orta Cordova, former private secretary of Fidel Castro, on 3/31/65,

place of hearing undisclosed for security reasons.

This related to

activities of florini, an American, in behalf of the Castro regime, both

in Cuba and the US, Including his

involvement in the smuggling of arms

to Cuba and use of

planes purchased with Cuban funds in Fiorini's name,

two of which remained in his

possession when he left Cuba at the time

Pedro Diaz Lanz of the Cuban Air Force defected on or about 7/1/59.

(Hearings enclosed, Part 14, entitled

"Communist Threat to the United States

Through the Caribbean")

62-88217-2947 enc1. D.919,946,964

-8-

SECRET

NN 70953 D001d:32300010 Page 3

---

## Page 6

SECRET

On 2/5/62, MM 639-Spadvised that Frank Fiorini claimed

that he would be the military leader for the organization of Carlos

Prio Socarras

(109-43024

Other investigation had indicated that Frank Fiorini, US

citizen, was a soldier of fortune involved in Cuban revolutionary

activity. Florini also was known as Frank Sturgis. (No sources given).

This reference stated that Prio, former President of Cuba,

had a preliminary

plan to establish a military base on a Key off the

Cuban coast.

109-430-2410 p.6

(16,35%

Alexander I. Rorke, Jr., 51 Chambers Street, NYC, who had

been associated with various

anti-Fidel Castro activities, on 4/21/62

advised that he had learned from Frank Fiorini that on either 4/17/62

or 4/18/62, he and Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz and others associated with

Diaz were

stopped about 40 miles southeast of Miami, Florida and turned

back to Miami by the US Coast Guard. According to Florini, the Coast

Guard action in stopping two of the boats belonging to Diaz was prompted

by orders from Washington, DC. Rorke advised on 4/25/62 that he again

spoke with fiorini who was very much disgusted because they had been

stopped by the Coast Guard and said he belleved Diaz set up this

activity in order to discontinue all activity against the present

Cuban Government. Florini said there were both men and plenty of weapons

aboard the boats but that the men were not detained nor were the

boats or weapons confiscated by the US Government.

This reference identifled Diaz Lanz as former head of the

Cuban Revolutionary Air Force.

(145208646-4 encI

In connection with foregoing, this reference is a Justice

Department communication advising

according to the US Border

Patrol,

Miami, Pedro Diaz Lanz and ten other Cuban exiles were aboard a

"Q" boat proceeding out of Biscayne Bay on 4/15/62, and they were

stopped

and ordered to return to the Miami River by the US Coast Guard

This reference stated also that Alexander I. Rorke, Jr.

and Customs:/25/62 that in conversation with Frank Florint, he was told

by Florini, an associate of Diaz Lanz but who was not reported to be a

DUS

REVIEWED BY BEJFK TASK FORCE

(continued)

ON

2. 1-98 da

RELEASE IN FOLL

RELEASE IN PART

-23-

SECRET

TOTAL DENIAL

10953 Do01d:32300010 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

MM 639-S advised on 10/29/62 that Mario Garcia Kohly

(105-88521) was in Miami, Florida at that time and had conferred with

Frank Florini who told Kohly he would arrange for an interview between

Kohly and Jack Cumings of "Newsweek" and Jack Anderson, a Baltimore,

Maryland newsman, and that these interviews would result in considerable

publicity for Kohly.

Florini, in return, expected Kohly to contribute

funds to Fiorini for arms and ammunition. Fiorini claimed that Nat

Bishop of Larchmont, NY, was expected to arrive in Miami on 11/3/62,

at which time Fiorini would show Bishop a fast boat which he hoped

BI shos would buy for florin1, to be used in ralds agains l

cuba.

According to Fiorini, Bishop

was a good friend of kohly.

This reference indicated that Kohly, who maintained

headquarters at 1600 South Joyce Street, Arlington, Virginia, claimed

that he was heading a newly-formed Cuban Government in Exile.

105-88521-75 encl.p.3

(13,407

A fairly reliable CIA source (not further identified)

advised that on 1/2/63, source was called to the Miami Airport by Frank

Fiorini to meet Alex Rorke and his five-year-old. son, Bill Johnson, and

a girl reporter-photographer who was not identified but was described

(description set out).

Rorke, his son, and the girl were leaving for

New York on a Northeast flight.

They asked for information concerning

•the activities of Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, which information source was

unable to supply except for some brief background data.

Source learned

that Rorke, his son,

and the girl had left Miami about 12/28/62, on

the boat

"Violin III" for Anguila Key, returning on 1/2/63. During

chat period, norke, with camera and eguipment, had proceeded Irom

Anguila Key

to, an unnamed point in Cuba to deliver arms and ammunition,

aboard the

"Sigma II"

(105-116092) which was manned by Menoyo and about

5 crewmen. (CIA). :

"The Charleston Daily Mail"

3/14/63,

Final edition, page I, In an article entitled

entitles touba Guns douned tost

, stated that Robert Thompson (105-106893), a flier who

had disappeared on 12/14/61, was reported by the Pompano

Beach Sun-

Sentinel,

Pompano Beach, Florida, (date not indicated) to have been

shot down over Matanzas,

Cuba, while dropping anti-Castro leaflets.

Missing with Thompson was another pilot, Robert Swanner.

They

CA INTO REMAINS CLASSIFIEC

(continued)

AS PREVIDUSLY MOREO PEra P/2S/86

#. 490-16449-257)

SOBJA/CEL 21326 - 1/22/90

- 25-

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32300010 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

(continued)

aimed at Cuba.

Other associates of Florint in activities involving

"VIolyn III" included Zacarias Costa Garcia, head of a group called

Los Pinos

Nuevos; Evello Duque Miyares, head of

the Cuban Anticommunist

Army; Jerry Buchanan, an American

adventurer; and Jose Maria Gonzalez

Hernandez, a Cuban radio operator.

contact at sea with the "Violyn III" although he disclaimed knowledge

of its whereabouts. On 3/29-31/63, Fiorini, Johnson and Gonzalez

reportedly traveled to Nassau and Norman Key, Bahamas, in connection

with a plan of Evelio Duque to take radio equipment into Cuba; however,

they were intercepted by British authorities and returned to Miami

before the plan materialized.

As of 4/13/63, Hernandez reportedly

claimed he was working with Sturgis and Johnson. It had been reported

also,

that Fiorini admitted having a clandestine radio station in

operation, however, he did not disclose further details concerning it.

Administrative information set out, indicating that MM 639-S maintained

direct contact with fiorini and that both MM 639-S and US Customs

suspected Florint of being a tIA Informant: (V)

SUBJECT OF FILE

REFERENCE

Anti-Fidel Castro

Activities

109-584-3604 p.21

SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

(18,425

Ejercito Cubano

Anticomunista

(Frente

Escambray) (Cuban Anti-

communist Army )

(Escambray Front)

Jose Maria Gonzalez

Hernandez

Los Pinos Nuevos

105-102440-36 p.1,2

-42 encl.p.3

-45 p.2-4

-46 p.1-6

-47 p.2

-52. p. 1,2;encl.

p.1-4

-72 p.2,3,8-11

105-74764-20 p.3,0,1

-26

p. 11

2-1855-3 enc1. p.3

14+

(14,407

(Not Indexed)

Not Indexed)

(147

(10,405

Not Indexed

137

The following serials of the main file on Alexander I. Rorke,

JI., an American free-lance news photographer and writer, relate to the

investigation to determine the authenticity of his claim of being

involved in a raid over Cuba on 4/25/63. Background to this alleged

(continued)

-27-

SECRET

NH 50953

DocId: 32300010

Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

(continued)

raid indicated that Rorke was closely associated with Frank Fiorini

and had distributed a leaflet which referred to participation in

expeditions against Castro in the Spring of 1961 which were commanded

by Florini, the Commanding Officer and organizer of the Anti-Communist

International Brigade.

had claimed that plans

It was reported that during Aprit", also,

1963 Fiorini

were in progress for a new

that Fiorini had been in contact with Edgardo Sopo Barreto of the

who, on 5/1/63, alleged that Fiorini made frequent visits to Manuel

Artime Buesa's organization* where he made irresponsible claims that

were not true. During an interview in Miami on 4/27/63, Fiorini

advised that he first met Rorke in 1960 in Miami, at the home of a

leading anti-Castro Cuban, Pedro Diaz Lanz.

He stated that about one

month previously in Miami, he met with Rorke, Hansruedi Tanner and

Geoffrey Sullivan who wanted Fiorini's help in proposed aerial action

over Cuba; however, Fiorini declined to assist them. He denied

knowledge of the 4/25/63 mission beforehand and expressed doubt that

it actually took place:

REFERENCE

97-4623-35 p.8

-36 p.1-3

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

18-50%

-68 encl.p.4

-84 p.1,2

-107 p. 90-93,95,96 (Interview with

Florini, 4/27/63, Miami, set

out) .

Correlator's Note: Subsequent information in this file

indicates that facts of the investigation were submitted

to the Justice Department and prosecution was not authorized.

* Not further identified. Probably the MRR.

on 3/22/63, INY 3693-5*

of a letter dated 2/20/63

i hate Nation we - deny Brook i -934 0 12 0 20

to the Cuban Mission to

nimself as a Captain in

• Brooks wrote that information

he would send from time to time would concern

"the Minutemen who are

really Alpha 66 not so-called Cuban Exiles

11

"; also, that one DePugh had

Given explosives to frank fiorini the past year to shell the "Habana.

Hilton"

• Brooks wanted to send some information to the Cuban Missior

(continued)

-28-

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32300010 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

(continued)

to the UN

at

an address at which "the F.B.I. & Secret Service won't

connect you with me.

included

He furnished a list. of

"Minutemen" which

"Mr. Frank Fiorini,

in command of Minutemen.

Alpha-66, 22nd St., Miami, Florida, 2nd

(Copy of letter and list enclosed)

100-434935-1X encl.

(Not Indexed)

With reference to foregoing, Frank Anthony Sturgis, better

known as Frank Florini, 2515 Northwest 122nd Street, Miami, was

interviewed on 4/24/63. He denied any connection with Alpha 66, even

though in the past he had admitted

cooperation with Cuban anti-Castro

groups. Fiorini said that several weeks previously, date unknown,

a. Mr..

William DePugh in Missouri called him and inquired about Jerry

Brooks (100-434935). Florini called an address where Brooks supposedly

resided but obtained no information. He notified DePugh of that fact

and had heard nothing since then.

He was unable to furnish Information

concerning anyone else on foregoing list.

Florini, who had always expressed cooperation with the FBI

in Miami' in the past, again contacted Delugh in Missouri by phone on

on 5/7/63, he furnished additional information

on Brooks obtained from DePugh at that time. It was Fiorini's observa-

tion that defugh would not cooperate with the Bureau in view of his

Fiorini also pointed out that Brooks

supposedly was In Miami for two or three days (date not given), reason

unknown to Fiorini.

100- 434935-6 p. 1,2

18,39)

On 6/14/63, MM 639-S advised that Rich Albert Lauchll of

Collinsville, Illinois recently arrived in Miami, Florida with a

station wagon load of arms for sale. American adventurers and

mercenaries, Gerald Patrick hemming, Jr. and Hrank Anthony sturgis,

took Lauchli around to meet the different Cuban exile leaders in Miami

and he subsequently sold weapons to the Second National Front of the

Escambray,

American mercenary Bill Garman, Ramon Font of Comandos I,

and miscellaneous equipment to other organizations.

*(4)

109-584-3742 p. 36

(42%

-29-

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32300010 Page 10

---

## Page 11

CONE

In connection withrforegoing, MM 639-S advised that on

6/10/63, Rich Lauchli was with Frank Anthony Sturgis who took him to

the home of Santiago Alvarez, at which time Alvarez purchased

some of

the guns from lauchl (U

This reference indicated that Santiago Alvarez Rodriguez, one

of the leading figures in the Comandos L (105-117222) anti-Castro

discharged from the US Army, both resided at 541 N.W.

organization, and his son, santlago Alvarez fernandes u5th agendes

105-117222-112 encl.p.3

(40%

On 6/18/63, MM 639-S advised that Mike Morino, 5730 Northwest

LIstn terrace, Hialeah, florida, appeared to be an American citizer

no previously nad sold arms to Cuban exiles in Miami, Florida.

Morino reportedly was a friend of Frank Anthony Sturgis who introduced

him to members of the DRE, an anticommunist Cuban revolutionary

organization. (Ud

2-1693-92 encl.p.1

(38)

The following references in the main file on Rafael Santos

Inclan y Argudin relate to information originating on 8/3/63, when

Inclan, a delegate of the Federacion Estudiantil Universitario (FEU).

(Federation of University Students), advised WFO of a plan*, which

he previously presented to CIA and which was discussed and agreed upon

at recent FEU meetings in Miami, Florida and Washington, DC, to

assassinate Cuban Premier Fidel

Castro at a vacation resort probably

in late November or December, 1963.

Inclan said his group had a boat

owned by Pedro Diaz Lanz to be used in this matter and weapons obtained

rom the Cuban Freedom Fighters (CFF), a Miami anti-Castro organization.

He stated that Pedro and Marcos Diaz

Lanz and Frank Florini were

executive officers of the CFF and that the CFF had pledged its assistance

to the FEU in its assassination plan.

Florini advised on 9/5/63 that

he met Inclan in the late Fall of 1962; that Inclan accompanied Fiorini

and Pedro Diaz on two or three unsuccessful missions to Cuba in early

1963, on Diaz' boat, the

"Moppie"; that in the Spring of 1963 Florini

accompanied Pedro Diaz to visit with Inclan in Washington, DC but did

not attend any meetings; and that Fiorini discouraged a plan of Inclan

to assassinate Castro and said he would not participate in such a plan.

Fiorini stated that neither he nor Pedro Diaz Lanz had any organization

(continued)

*Subsequent information in this file gave no indication that this plan

ever materialized.

= 30 co

• SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32300010 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECRET

(continued)

After lunch Sanders and Fiorini drove Miro to the Hong Kong Restaurant

in Miami where Miro was in contact with an unidentified person.

This reference described Ruben Oscar Miro Guardia (105-75663)

as a Panamanian citizen and attorney with offices at Plaza de Francia 4,

Panama City, Panama.

05-75003-94. enc1. p. 9-11

10, 35,

including Chub Cay, Andros Island; Green Turtle Cay, Little Abaco

Island; Marsh Harbour, Great Abaco Island; and Freeport, Grand Bahama

Island. On this flight were William Johnson, a pilot and used car

salesman; Robert Lee, owner of the American Air Taxi, engaged in the

leasing of aircraft; Frank Anthony Sturgis, also known as Frank Florini,

an American adventurer and soldier of fortune; and Michael Rafferty,

Johnson's associate in a Miami used car business. This flight was in

furtherance of. Bosch's plan to use a suitable air strip in carrying out

a raid against Cuba. All expenses for the flight were paid by Bosch.

a pens for the 12 ghi

On 6/22/64 Bosch held a meeting (place not indicated) with

a group which included Johnson, Fiorini and Rafferty as well as

several members of the MIRR, including Gervilio Gutierrez y Concepcion

and one Luis (Inu - description set out).

discussed an MIRR effort to bomb Cuba, on 6/19/64, resulting in the

crash of the MIRR plane with three crewmen aboard. (Details set out).

(William Johnson - protect identity -

1271 Northwest 180th Terr., Miami)

9753974-132 encl

SI as par.

1

97-4474-126 p.2

179,397

MM, 639-S advised that on 8/9/64, Laureano Batista Falla,

military leader of the MDC. (97-4110) stated that he wanted to leave

on the following day to visit his military training camp outside the

US (not further identified). Batista planned to meet an unidentified

person in the parking lot of an unidentified super-market in Miami

(continued)

-37-

SECRET

HH

50953 DocId: 32300010

Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

(continued)

during the night hours, to receive some home-made bombs which

previously belonged to Frank Anthony Sturgis, aka. Frank Florini, an

American mercenary and adventurer living in Miami, Florida.

(Ш)к

97-4110-132 enc1.p. 1

(6,38)

On 9/9/64, MM 974-S reported that Orlando Bosch häd been

consulting Frank Fiorini in order to obtain a plane for use in making

an air attack against Cuba.

Fiorini located a twin engine plane at

Its purchase.

This reference described Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila as leader

of the MIRR (97-4474) an action group of Cuban exiles headquartered in

Miami.

97-4474-155 encl. p.2

177

Miami teletype dated 12/24/64, captioned "Alleged Plan By

Bahamas Between Christmas and New Year's Day, 1965"

Cuban Exile Organization REAL to Blow Up British Shif 105-137014)

indicated that attempts by Miami to verify this allegation had met with

negative results. Relative to information from Secret Service, Austin,

that Lynn

Pelham,

"Life Magazine"

photographer, had been visited

by one

"Frank" who said

he was from Miami, Florida, and who made

captioned allegation, Miami considered the possibility that "Frank"

might be identical to Frank Fiorini, aka Frank Sturgis, an American

adventurer who had been involved in

Cuban revolutionary activities for

about six years and who had the reputation among several local federal

agencies of peddling information which frequently was found to be

unfounded and untrue.

A telephone call placed to Fiorini's house (no address given)

on the night of 12/24/64, produced no answer.

No further attempts

contact him would be made, pending results of interview of Pelham.

105-137014-10 p.2

(15,35

(continued)

-38-

SECRET

50953 DocId: 32300010 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET

In the latter part of Oatober, 1965, PSI (UD) Guillermo

Arencibia (protect identity), a member of the Allanza Revolucionaria

Democratica (ARD) (Democratic Revolutionary Alliance ) (105-134875)

in Miami, Florida, stated that Frank Florini, an American who had

been involved in Cuban affairs

at Miami since Fidel Castro came to power,

visited the home of Arencibia (address not given) together with

another American named Bill Johnson, on 10/20/65. Fiorini claimed

that he wanted to get in contact with Dr. Manuel Urrutia Lleo when

the latter came to Miami.

He told Arencibia that he had an important

plan in which Urrutia would. be interested.

Arencibia suspected that

agency and reporting

matters discussed by anti-Castro exiles.

This reference identified Urrutia as

leader of the ARD.

Bill Johnson was not further identified.

105-134875-28 encl.p.5

(15)

On 11/2/65, MM 974-S advised that recently, probably during

the past 3 or 4 days, General Elias Wessin y Wessin was at the home

of the Cuban exile newspaper man Antonio Lano Montes in Miami and

among those who met with Wessin was Frank Fiorini. (No further

information).

This reference described Wessin as a Dominican military

officer and political figure who

was residing in Miami Springs, Florida

at

that time.

109-12-211-8496 encl.p.3

(19T

In connection with the investigation captioned "UNSUB:

Attempt to Bomb Freight Boat 'Oro Verde'

of Nassau, Bahamas, Registry,

Pier 3, Miami, Florida, 10/18/66" (45-10628), Frank Fiorini, aka

Frank Sturges,

was interviewed on 5/5/67, at his place of business,

United Motors, 9001 Northwest 7th Avenue, Miami.

At Fiorini's

request the

interview was witnessed by Joseph Ambers, Sales Manager,

United Motors, and Fiorini read and signed a Warning and Waiver of

Rights form.

Fiorini furnished background data on himself, referred

to past activities during 1959 with Cuban Premier Fidel Castro,

former Cuban Air Force General Pedro Diaz Lanz and his brother,

Marcos Diaz Lanz, and Miami anti-Castro revolutionary, Dy. Orlando Bosch.

(continued)

-42-

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32300010 Page 14

---

## Page 15

SECRET

(continued)

data for various Cuban exile groups in Miami. Fiorini admitted being

purposes but denied any such activities in the US.

He denied any

connection with the attempted bombing of the "Oro

, Verde" or with any

vessel in the Miami Harbor.

45-10628-28

14447

The following reference on Frank Fiorini located in a file

maintained in the Special File Room of the Records Branch,

Files and

Communications Division, was reviewed and found to be identical

with the subject of this summary; however, the information contained

therein has not been included:

REFERENCE

54-330-213-283 (5)

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(44

*****

REFERENCES NOT INCLUDED IN THIS SUMMARY

See the search slip filed behind file for other references

on this subject which contain the same information (SI) that is set

out in the main file. Differences in source will be noted on the

search slip.

-43-

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32300010

Page 15

---

