# 124-10062-10388

## Page 1

124-10062-10388

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

11/17/20

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10062-10388

HQ

105-82555-656

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SULLIVAN, W. C.

TO :

BELMONT, A. H.

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/03/1963

7

LHO, POST-RP, TRAVEL, ALLEGED $6500 PAYMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/10/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

v9.1

HH 52333

Do01d:32140601

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

OPTIONAL"FORAL NO, 10

5010-108

MAY I96Z EDITION

GIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

=.. MESA GEM. HEG. NO. 2P

UNITED STATES GOT&RNMENT

DEDUCE

222ON AMO/OR

INATION

Memorandum

Tolson

Belmont T

Mohr

UUel shr

Callahan

310190

Mr. A- H. Belmont -

112/3/63 SECD

FROM

SUBJECT:

SYNOPSIS

"CLASS.

EXT

w. C. Sullivan

REASON

FOIM

2x 2323

DATE OF

'FEVIEW

4.22,3

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

apa 2-1-29

Tele. Room .

Holmes

On m/25/oo at Mexico elty,

Mexico.

information recei

berto Alvarado/ Ugarte

Nicaraguan

national.

hát on 9/18/63 he sav| Lee Harvey Oswald in Cuban Consulate

n Mexico City and witnessed payment of $6500 to Oswald. Alvarado claime

among those also present when money passed to Oswald was Sylvia Duran, Mexi-

with any U.S. representatives. Search of Enbassy switchboard records failed

to disclose

any such calls were logged.

Bureau investigation established

swald was in New Orleans from 9/17

until approximately 9/25/65 when he

Jeparted for Mexico. Oswald's, presence in Mexico from 9/26 until 10/33/63

U.S. Ambassador to Mexico, Thomas C. Mann, through State Depart-

nent requested FBI assistance in directing instant investigation in Mexico.$

sureau Supervisor Laurence P. Keenan designated to go to Mexico City to

assist and arrived 11/27/63 Mexican authorities interviewed Sylvia Duran

and are convinced she is telling truth when she states she recalled meeting

LASSIFY ON: 25X C

Öswald at Cuban Consulate on 9/27 and 9/28/63 and unsuccessfully endeavored

to assist him in obtaining Cuban and Russian visas. Mexican authorities

also convinced Duran not involved in any political activity in Cuban Con-

sulate and confident her duties restricted to routine consular matters.

On 11/28/63 authority obtained to release Alvarado to Mexican authorities

for interrogation. On 11/29/63 Mexican authorities advised Alvarado's

story "fascinating" and stated he was unable to pick out photo of Duran.

Later on 11/40/63,

information received Alvarado admitted to Mexiçan

authorities his story fabrication designed to provoke U.s. into kicking

Castro out of Cuba.

CIA, Mexico,

advised Nicaraguan source states approxi-

nately 20 to 25% or. Information previously furnished by Alvarado unreliable

controd one her. reputation of considering, himself more

intelligent than his

control officer.

On 11/30/63 Ambassador Mann advised since Alvarado's statements

fabrication,

no longer necessary for SA Keenan to remain in Mexico. Keenan

returned Washington, D.C., 12/1/63. Information received thát Alvarado now

claims his original

statements true and that he recanted under tear 01

violence

LPK:mIsmfrom Mexican authorities

REC- 12

05-82555-65104

1-Mr. Belmont; I-Mr. Sullivan; I-r®

Rosen;

I-Mr. D. E. Moore; 1-Mr. S1zoo; 1-Mr

1-Mr. Keenan; 1-Liaison

BranigaRi

CONFIDE

5 9DEC 241963701

over

Declassi

SIDE

CLAS

ACTION

NH 52333

DocId: 32140801 Page 2

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 Suo/Gee

---

## Page 3

Memo to Mr. Belmont

RE:

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDE

ECRET

AL®

#witnessing the passing of $6500 to be true. This official advised

that Alvarado was being treated cordially

and that he was

either

telling the truth or was the world's best liar.

This official advised

that Alvarado's interrogation

would now be conducted in a little stronger manner.

was continuing and that this interview

He furnished no

On the evening of 11/29/63, Legat, Mexico, received intorma-

tion from a high-level Mexican official that Alvarado reportedly admitted

his story was a pure fabrication designed to provoke the U.s. into

kicking Castro out of Cuba.u on 11/30/03, Winn Scott, Chief, CIA, Mexico

ulty, advised that he had received information from Mexican authorities

who were interviewing Alvarado that Alvarado had admitted that informa-

tion furnished by him regarding Oswald's presence in the Cuban Embassy

on 9/18/63 and the information regarding a pay-off to Oswald was a

pure fabrication for the above-mentioned reason. Scott advised that

Lan official of the Nicaraguan Security Service

arrived in Mexico City on 11/29/63

adioining that room in which Alvarado was being interviewed.

As a

consequence,

he was kept advised of the progress of Alvarado's inter-

According to Scott, Wheelock had advised that Alvarado in the

EJ

past had furnished information concerning Nicaraguan Communist Party

activities and from 20 to 25% of the information furnished by Alvarado

was unreliable.

described Alvarado as a person who believed

himself to be more intelligent than his control officer. Scott stated

no information was available that the Mexican authorities had used any

violence in securing

an admission from Alvarado that his statements

were fabrication

wEek Agency the was may

Investigation by both Legat

towards identifying other vitnesses allegedly present

Mexico, and CIA, Mexico, looking

in the Cuban Con-

sulate at the time Alvarado claims he saw Oswald receiving the above-

mentioned $6500, was unable to uncover the white male who possessed a

Canadian passport or the red-haired Cuban Negro.

It is noted Cuban

Vice Consul Azcue reportedly returned to Cuban on 11/18/63.

Mexican

authorities have been requested to assist in the possible identification

of the above-mentioned

white male with Canadian passport and red-haired

Cuban Negro who allegedly witnessed the pay-off to Oswald.

However, it

appears that Alvarado's descriptions of those persons who reportedly

witnessed the pay-off are intentionally vague,

to identify or interrogate them and Teaving Duran as the only logical

e then on i laying surah

thus making it impossible

person available to confirm or refute Alvarado's statements (e)

C2(4)

SECRE CONFIDENTIAL

NH 52333 DocId: 32140801

Page 3

---

## Page 4

x-550

Memo to Mr. Belmont

RE: ASSASSINATION OF PESE ANY

CONFIDE

On 11/30/63

termined that Alvarado's statements werelfalse, it was not necessary

for SA Keenan to remain away from his duties in Washington. He ex-

pressed his sincere appreciation for the Bureau's cooperation and

assistance,

and requested that his personal gratitude be conveyed tos

the Director.u

SA Keenan returned to Washington, D. C., on 12/1/63.

EAs of 11/30/63

Alvarado was being held by Mexican authorities

on the charge that he illegally entered Mexico Alvarado, in his

statement to Mexican authorities, advised that he had entered Mexico

without a Mexican visa and after bribing a Mexican Immigration inspector.

Mexican authorities advised CIA, Mexico, that Alvarado would probably

do ported area in Che nant a ten yet that Avarad 241)

n his statement

Mexico City shy

cable 12/2/63

raimed that his original statements were

true and that he recanted under fear of violence from the Mexican y

authoritles.

W

1/ 1

ADDENDUM BY W. C. SULLIVAN/LL - 12/3/63

Alvarado should be immediately subjected to a polygraph

examination. This is being handled.

wel

Vл10510

SECRET CONFDENTIAL

NH 52333 DocId: 32140801 Page 1

---

