# 124-90102-10180

## Page 1

124-90102-10180

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90102-10180

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 110-6-210-3011

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE:

DATE: 07/26/1971

' PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

MAX LESNICK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HH 50953

13

DocId: 32332533

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Intelligence Informal

Report

triis.

moretici turlaint indimotion

unziring tho

tille

172 9-7 1141

595557220/903

at she Vired Slates

within

tsaarmission or revelction of

which it way

nurner u. uncut driers parson

1 prombirde oy lor.

• NO FORFIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEN

PAGE 1 OF 6 PAGES

THIS 15 AN INFORMATION REPORT,

NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

REPORT NO.

CSDB-312/02121-71

O ECONDANI MATTER ST

DATE DISTR. 26: July 1971

COUNTRY

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UINCLASSIFIEL

DOI

March - April 1971

DATE 3-27-95 Pr 5668 SLD/KSL

4-FB1/C

SUBJECT

organization o

uban Ministry Ol Transportation.

ATTRANSA

2:

Trans fei?

Herchant Matine and

Mean DaSes to the Ministry of

Ports

SOURCE

Cagada, Ottawa (6 July 1971)

who worked in Cuba from 1908 tol

bite relabilly has lot been stablind.

le required this information during the course of his norma

employment.

1,

(Headquarters Comment:

The Cuban Ministry of Mer-

chant Marine and Ports was created by law on 20 August 1970

witl.

the purpose of coordinating, administering, and exacu-

ting all maritime activity:

At that. time, it was

announced

that the offices within the Ministry of Transportation having

to do with maritime activities would be transferred to the

Minisiry of

Morchant Marine and Ports.)

2.

As of March 1971, the Ministry of Transportation

(MITRANS) was still in the procoss of transferring cortain

offices to the new Ministry of Norchant Marine and Ports,

• which had not yet been completely organized.

Attached as

page 5 :is

an organization

chart of MITRINS as of

larch

* Following is a description of the MITRANS organization:

71.

A.

Minister.

Connent:

Source

was

still under the improssron that the sahister

of Trans-

portation was Faure

C h

o mon,

although the latter had

been replaced in December 1970 by Major Enrique

busson

Batlle.)

B.

Office of the Minister.

Piro

Ferro

as in charge of this offico and the chief

BaIrCtO

Both were with Faure chomon,

was

5

4

3

2

13th of March Revolutionary Directorate

(DR)

110-6-210

• NO. FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

3

SECRET

(alertifcation)

STAlE

¡лізат, водоо!!

DIA

ARMY

NAVY

TAIR 7

NSA

DCS

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLLSGIFICATION AND/OR,

RFI

* SiA INFORMATION

IN ThIS DOCUMENT. EXCEpT FOR

KP

CRS

(For field Distribulion sna finol porograph)

DET

1-27-98

SLD /K5R

•3-6-46

JFK)

6239

NH 50953

DocId: 32332533

Page 2

---

## Page 3

1

5

MAGE 2 OF & PACES

C5D1-019/02721-71

whieh was led by Chomon and was active during the Cuban

Rovolutio!.)

within MITRANS,

barcrre and barretr

Chomon's principal assistants.

economist, also worked in

One Soviet advisor,

this office.

Both Barogra

Barreto were expecting to be

of Merchant Marine and

transferred to the Ministry

Ports.

First Vice-Minister.

was f.

The First Vico-Minister

who is also ^ former

administrative rosponsibilitios

within MITRANS.. (Headguarters Comment:

Gumersindo

00n22107

is the First Vice-Minister and Vice-Minister

In MITRANS according to the Directory of Cuban

Personalitics.)

D.

Second Vice-Minister.

-Alepuz

(inu), is

also a former

The Second Vice-Minister,

member of the DR.

•He had

responsibility

over the Departments of Laws and Regulations.

One Soviet advisor

worked in the office; he was

Gorny

Inu), a naval architect from a Loningrad ship constructior

institute.

Headquarters Comment

According to the Directory

Standards.)

(1)

Laws:

The Director of this department

was Joaquin de la

CrUz, a former member of the

DR.

A11

of this departmen

pertaining to shipping and port laws was

to be transferred to the Ministry of

Merchant Marine

and

Ports.

Within

the Department

of Laws, vere two sections:

a commission which investigated accidents,

and a legal

section

which wrote the rules and regulations governing

Ship,

rail, bus

and truck transportation.

It also operated

driving school and issued drivers' licenses.

Regulations: This department consisted

of naval construction and

inspection

and was

headed by Captain

Silvio

a forner

member of the

All of the Regulations

Department

to be transferred

to the Ministry of Merchant Marine and Ports.

(a) Naval Construction Section:

section, within the Regulations Department, was headed by

Tapanes,

a Soviet-trained engineer:

section contained two

the dry docks office in which

five Soviet engineersworked,

and the : shipyards

two Soviet ship repair

engineers worked. Since the

beginning of 1969,

Tapanes had

spent the major part of his

the MITRANS representative working in the Cuban

Commercial Office in London,

In 1968, he had an

office at a shipyard on Havina Bay (AMS Series E 9210,.

Havana Sheet 2 UTM Grid 630697 to 635597). During this

time he often visited the Soviet Naval Association for

assistance.

composed of Soviet naval

had officos

in a building on the block bounded

by Mercaderes, O'Reilly, Obispo and Tacon Streets in Havana.

In late 1970, Taranes, asintian, was Fiven the naval rank of

vere verns sIveh

Source said that any civition

military ranks when they transferrod

to the Ministry of Merchant inrine and Ports.)

(b) * Inspection Section:

This section,

headed by Captain Silvio, was responsible for inspecting

all non-military ships entering Cuban ports.

All employees

of this

section were on detached duty from the Mambisas

Shipping Line.

5

2

SECRET

FRIGA LA-3. URE REEVIOUS

NO FOREIGN DISSEN/CONTIOLLED DISSEM

CANTINUGTION SHFFT

rani

NH

50953 DocId:32332533

Page 3

---

