# 124-10232-10022

## Page 1

124-10232-10022

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10232-10022

RECORD SERIES: DI

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-10461-8322

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

10/06/1964

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 105-82555-5065

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

07/01/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NH. 50953

DocId: 32180312 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT:

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993/

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

EXCEpT p9. I TP LAST 'BRACTS"

pq.

5 BRANUTS

pq. 3 BrAckeTs

per amB

6 0CT 1954

3120/240

JBH: 4-30-93

Director

RDD/KSR 5-17-93 JFK

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Lee Harvey OSWALD - Internal Security

Russia - Cuba

1.

Reference is made to your memorandum of August 14,

1964, Subject as above, your file number (S) 105-82555, 1n

which you requested that seven enclosed photographs be

shown to VIADUCT and certain questions be asked of him.

2.

VIADUCT was interviewed on 9 September 1964 with

the

following results.

3. Photograph no. 1i

(1) Nikolay SERGEYEV - Source did not recognize the

Face and had never heard the name.

(2)

Annette (Anita) SETYAEVA,

nee me torment

Fovs as Annetre GOLDSTrEYN (GOLDSTEIN) and

(KHENKINA):

Source recognized

er immediately by face, giving the name Annette

KHENKINA, formerly Annette GOLDSETEYN. He

could not recall her maiden name but when offered

the name ZUGOFF he sald this would be correct

as it is an Ossettian name and ber father had

been Ossettian and her mother a Canadian.

Source 's

additional information on this woman is provided

in paragraphs below.

(3)

Joseph

ADANOV Source recognized his photograph

Immediately and provided the name correctly,

Kidentilying him ag his long time friend, previously

discussed in the

your memorandum.

deport referenced in

GROU? 1

Excluded from automatle

100310461. 8332

downgrading and

inalenalfication

V; 3,7 SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32180312 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

(4)

Annabelle

BUCAR:

Source recognized her photo

Eshe is _thel

person discussed in the

report.

(5)

RUDIN: Source recognized his photograph

Imme Chately

and gave his name as "RUDIK"/and

FIeld Of Joe ADAMON's.

He is Jewish and was

originally from New York, but is now a Soviet

citizen, marzied to 2 hussian woman and lathor

of three or four childron.

He works in the

English language section of Radio Moscow

He

nad Iormerly had a very snalt fy bi one

•or

two rooms, with which he was very unhappy, but

Radio Moscow got him an attractive and larger

flat in a building on Foschannya Street.

(6)

LUCY (OlSA DRAWINA:

Source recognized her

photograph at/once as the wonan who had given

him English lessons

in 1944 or 1945 when he was

briefly employed at

Radio Moscow. He believed S

her name was Irina of something Ilke that, and

she had previously spent possibly ten of fifteon

years in

the United States with hor husband who

had been a TASS ma there.

Source could not

recall her last name (married nane) but thought

1t began with a

"Is".

When Source first met her

she was a program director for Radio Moscow and

did some announcing.

He said she spoke excellent

English, was a good

worker and well liked by her

colleagues.

He did not know the names LUCY and

OLGA PRAVDINA, and was cortain neither was her

actual name.

Photographs 2 and 3:

Source recognized these as

Annetto KRENKINA, oi paragraph 3 (2) above.

Photograph no. 4:

Source recognized number 1 as

the person identified in parygraph 3 (6) above; and recognized

Annette KHENCINA, Sergel RUVIMAN, and Joe ADAMOV.

He did

not recognize Nikolai SUReLYEV, in this photograph.

6.

Photograph no.

5: Source recognized all persons

1n this photo, as identifiod in paragraphs 3 (3), (2),

(4),

and (5)

above.

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32180312 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Photograph no. 6: Source recognized number (1)

KHENKIN (first name not recalled), the second husband

Annette COLDSETEN KIENKINA, and number (2) as Annette

herself.

He knew that they had a son and assuned that the

child in this photo was that son, but he had never seen the

child. Source provided the same

Information on KHENKIN

Steferred

building in the background of photograph number (3) 1s

the location of the apartment which KHENKIN was given after

he had written a letter to STALIN complaining of quarters

he was first given when he repatriated to the Soviet Union

in 1945 or 1946.

8.

Photograph no. 7: Source recognized Annette

KHENKINA, but did not know any of the others in the photo.

When number (4), Marina, was pointed out to him, he stated

that she was the right age to be Annette's daughter by bor

first husband, GOLDSHTEYN. Source had seen her as a small

child, possibly about five or six years or age, in 1945.

he has never seen her since, knew nothing more about her,

and could not identily her photograph.

Source comnented

that he had never met GOLDSHIEYN, Annette's first husband,

but knew that he was much older than she and he speculated

that the older man in this photograph might be bors

GOLDSITE

Source gave the following additiona. intormation

noT BOYis GOLDSHTEYN: He was some kind of engineer-technician,

not employed by radio roscow.

He did not approve of Annette's

working in the radio field, and disapproved of the people

she worked with there

and the general atmosphere of work.

Annette was already separted or divorced from GOLDShtEYN

when Source first met her, sometime/ in 1911 or 1945.

Annette was still married

to GOLDSTEYN, she had an affair

with Joe ADAMOV.

heard the / name.

had married for the third time, although he knew that she

was divorced from KHENKIN and that he was interested in

marrying a woman who was an editor in a publishing house.

Source had never heard of Lee Harvey OSWALD

prior to his defection, and had no information regarding

his participation in a

Radio Moscow Interview in late

He commented, however, that it was not unusual to

SEGRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32180312 Page 1

---

