124-90106-10035)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90106-10035
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER:  105-117222-132
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: BRENNAN
TO: SULLIVAN c
TITLE:
DATE: — 10/08/1963
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
COMMANDOS L
JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B.
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/10/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS : MEMO

vO.

HW 50953 Docid:32333179 Page 1


7
|

SRE, |

UNITED STATES, . te he © , Ws :

{ Memorandum _ : > a
cesses WINBOND

ur. W. Cc. Suse, cn nas Mi ake =

FROM : Mr, D. J. Brennan, ry a Sins A NEORIMAON

| pe sae
0 IN THIS DOCUME T (EK ants ese
SUBJECT: COMMANDOS L KP 3494 ” RP
Is - CUBA :
INTERNAL SECUGTY-CUZA
é The captioned organization, consisting of anti-Castro Cuban
refugees, periodically has come to our attention in connection with
raids planned or directed against Cuba. esmond Fitzgerald, cia,
! furnished the following to the Liaison Agent. on 10/7/63%} x w

Trotter
r

. Pursuant to instructions from the White House, CIA i.
1 currently exploring the possibilities of collaborating with this
organization in promoting activities directed against the Castro
Government, This will include raids against Cuba. All such raids
would be initiat amas and it will

be necessary for @ (s) \

Fitzgerald requested that this information not be disseminated
outside of the Bureau and he further asked that if the Bureau \received
any information concerning Commandos L activities, such data not be
disseminated to the British without first consulting with CIA.

ACTION: i

The Nationalities Intelligence Section has been informed
concerning the above. If approved, we will not disseminate Aanforma-

tion to the British without first con, ulting with cIA.g, Uu
: Prachi ate. yay)
Mr. Belmont “een s/n better, : :

a f ca i

- Mr, Sullivan , 24 lah, 6. a rhe
~ Mr. Wannall. 1: oo TX

- Mr. Nasca

Liaison

6 4.0eT 201963 \ V

u

SOS (19 }

HW 50953 Docid:32333179 Page 2
