124-90041-10023) -

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-9004 1-10023

HQ

CR 97-3856-13

Date:

4/23/201

ORIGINATOR :

FRO}
Tl

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
CIA

10/26/1959
5

CRUZADA REVOLUCIONARIA ANTI COMUNISTA
JOSE RASCO BERMUDA
PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact
06/18/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

RPT

VOL

HW 50953 DocId:32325941 Page 1


6.

=
9 Mien ©) S-E-C-R-E-T ¢ 5
: NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL af

-2- + (CS=3/416 5195

“ With’ his Jocal supporters through three women who visit him periodically. He

has ‘been apprised of the activities of his followers in Miami and has requested
‘that’$20;000 be furnished to a 40-man group of his followers in Camaguey

Province. The Camaguey group is the one he has charged with making a raid on.
La Cabafia prison and freeing him.

Under the orders
cted one
has

is led
a) is ad
The'buried arms and dynamite are to be used in sabo'

7.

Gnd) nex be waiting at this point and will signal the plane, making the

8.

attempts.

BLANCO “Nav in Miami.
to the[LDC a point lo

ting to set up an arms drop
ometers Horth of Los Palacios (22 36N, 83 16W) 7

drop with four flashlights.

Besides the two groups in Pinar del Rio province and the group in Camaguey,
Reinaldo BLANCO Navarro also has two groups in Matanzas and Santa Clara
provinces. 1 . Sis te .
a ona
On about 25 August 1959 Manuel’ BLANCO Navarro, in Miami,wrote a letter to one of.
his followers in Cuba, Enclosed with the letter were tvo messages which BLANCO
asked be forvarded to S

ie q
asked thay informed that the letters vere "fron his Sister IS)
(Sic), One oF thé messages reads as follows? :

* “Dear Brothers

I am writing these lines to accompany a letter from my friend
Dr. Rodriguez Couceiro , in whose house I am staying since I found
out that they have arrested Leonel and that I camot return there.
As you will see in the letter, I an sending you a series of instruc-
tions to see if we can maintain the group that is presently without
any leaders, Just as you have probably réad in the newspapers, they
have caught all the leaders in the roundup. This doesn't mean any-
thing more than that we shall be delayed until we are reorganized
again. Only about 100 were arrested, and the group mmbered about
35000. ie

As he (my friend) informs you, I do not believe that you ought

to visit Reinaldo BLANCO Navarro in la Cabafia prison, You should

send someone in whom you have confidenos, In the new contacts that you

made do not use your own name. Use an alias. so that, if anyone

should talk, they will not be able to identity you. You should pro-
“tect the place vhere you live. When you have meetings, hold then at

prearranged places, naver in your home. I know that you know bow to

do these things, but I want to warn you to be careful and use other
“persons to make your contacts; Den't-do-it personally, Tho principal --—.. .

objective is to ts able to maintain yourself as the leader of the

novenent st least. until you select chiefs if your work prevents you

‘from leading in Habana, :

We have made contact here with a large group which was not caught
and vhich {s also organized from Autentico people. This group did not
lose its leaders, since, as I say, it was not caught because it had
joined us only a few days previously, This group is almost ready for
action; so it is urgent that you reorganize our people rapidly in order

S-E-C-R-E-T :
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

Kime 0009 Docka:32325941 Page 2

2



3 ) S-E-C-R-E-T: Se)
NOFORN/CONTINED CONTROL, No
u3° ts “E C8~3/M16 495

ge ‘that! Don Fidel may not last unti1 the New Year, In ths next letter we
shall send nore details and possibly give the mata outlines of the
“business, As seen ao you have anything to report

cy “whom you have donfidence. Do not-use tha nana

; that name is now "burned", Use the name{

Br address which you already have for the tin

“shall soon ehange residence, but I vill se

soon as we do.

i ina nay address as

When you reply, use the “1tttle grandmother" (abuelita)
“sitiée as you Inow, @gpSmame" is also "burned®. Mary reennie te all
and an'enbrace from your sis : ;

‘ 7 9)
10. The second message reads ad Fount
> om Miami’ 21 August, 1959
Ce — 10: = :
Ae, I suppose gon alze + because of the treason of Willian
» PR organ and ‘TERREZ Mensye!2, the leaders of the. Organization.

have been arrested, and its most necessary that our pscpis be
reorganized so that the movement is not lost, Ths only person who is
able to do so is you, I know that the responsibility is very great,

but I also know your abeLetien, and ve are sure that you will be able
to do the job.

4s a first objective, it is necessary to establish “contast with,
Captain Reinaldo’ BLANCO Navarro. He is the chief of our organization
and-will continue to be. He is in prigon in La Cabafiay according to,
our information, but is allowed to receive visitors. He knows you,
‘since you met _ ae in his office. You can introduce yourself as
‘the brother o: He will give you names of persons and instruc
tions to follow, it is very important that, while he remains:

a prisoner; you set up a sourker so that you don't have to make sub-
‘sequent visits, Thia would be dangerous in the extreme.

With respect to the rebels, be very careful in making your contacts,

you; you can tell
‘dinner on the terrace of the
Pind out from him 4¢/|
‘Mffornation is contradictory <
make the contacts with them directly. It is better that you designate

18 We saw him was’ at a

n oF Cannot be trusted, since our

another ‘Person for the pene ly trastworthy but very “egsygoing..
7° Another. group jou san odatact is that Wey
: in the Rosita de Hornedo.
~<a

Tell him that you were sent by Francisco,
NZALEZ, who is in Montclair, New Jersey} that here we are, united;

yo ‘~ and that he-should join his group to our_movement, Spell game ree
nore informatién on this group,

a some" my  beballt and:

a ‘the ‘asi his office;

in uhich waiwere specling 1 ait? tasta0 I  eany Wed bim_g lett
York, He leads a group of followers of
sf: 15: (aie) of the igenpeoin, cas

we

S-E-C-R-E-T Q
“NOFORN/CONTINUED ‘CONTROL

NW 50953 DecId:32325941 Page 3

“= gince one Jesson is enough, There is one safe person yhom,you can trust’
a "te secretary Seo can see
Win on Gur behalf and on that of the TSF that he will not
 mistrus:

‘eli him that trained a lot,

Very careful with the rebels, ani dontt



>
3
|

NW 50953 Decld:32325941 Page 4

os SaleCaR=Bolt ~< . cee |
WOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

-he (8#3/416,U95

by like,
| G

mis Fou, tell hin that you are Wis BEERS —
(envisdo) and tell him to recall the interview ve. had in the lobby

‘of the Savoy Hilton of New York. Up to recently he had a group.

lives_at| stairs in if
Oe. a letters and can help you. “Introduce yourself
as the brother o! No. ons else shovld see, her but you, and no,

6+ In.a memorandum dated 16 September 1959 the Ue_S. Air Attache inh

sie
For finance: nage seror( 6 friend of
and Seioi To contact the latter, see
Secretary Serior TUS him thet you come on my
“SEARLS word ae)

behalf: and that oF ar (sic.) Tt is very important
that you get together a goo om ttee ney 1
problem there. Also talk t gan see about,
money, Another person that you cah see is yet ts} |
= |

|

|

; t : :
You should ha. chanséLlor of the \
(UB lots

one should know Yyou'see her. You must be extremely careful to
protect her. : \

Weil, I believe that’ this is enough for now. Be extremely careful,
and reorganize our rank and file,since the thing is soon,

, (signature illegible)

Field Comments

1,. Previously reported as a Cuban’Rebel ‘Army ‘captain heading a counter-
revolutionary group in Cuba. “BLANCO was one of the chief conspirators
arrested in August’ 1959, when the Cuban Government smashed a plot
against it.

2, Brother and father respectively, of Reinaldo BLANCO Navarroe

3. Presidential candidate of the cuban Feople's Party in the 1958. Cuban
elections. He took asylum in the Venezuelan Eubassy in July 1959 and
was last reported in exile in Caracas on 26 July. At that time he
reportedly said that he would soon leave for New York, ‘where his
family was.

ue In an gpen ne 1959 at Miami, o1
Boca former Rebel Army captain, invited His

former compalfions-in-arms” to join CRAC.

5. The BLANCO group was reportedly without funds or arms as of 31 August 1959.

reported information from a wife of one of the prisoners in La Cabana
that CRAC had gathered $1,000,000 to get Reinaldo BLANCO, Enrique
OVARES, Gustavo de los REYES, Kuku BRINGUIER, and Dr. CAINAS Milanes out
of prisons OVARES, REYES, and CAINAS are also high-level conspirators
who were*arrested in the roundup of August 1959.

7» According to a memorandum dated 26 August 1959, from the Protection
Section of the American Embassy, Habana, an American citizen who had
Just been released frém La Cabana prison after five months! imprison=
ment reported that a group of ‘approximately )60 political prisoners
and former prisoners are actively engaged in counter-revolutionary
activities, Three hundred of the group were said to be at liberty ~
in Habana, approximately 100 still held in prison, and about 70 in

S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL



10.

lie

Be

16.

17.

oo)
ae
a

S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

Bioee CS=3/i165495

©
open rebellion in Pinar del Rio oe fo ral
of the BATISTA army. Among the leadeY'S of the group was one

owas said to be held in the Castillo Prison at the time.

‘nu) may be a relative of or identical with
3)

Identified by Source as the brother otf Phevsousty reported
as co-ordinator of a group of counter-révolutionaries in Miami.

“On 22 September 1959 source reported that this army drop had been scheduled
between 8 and 10 p.me on 25 September. 1959.

Source did not know the size of any of the groups.
This probably refers to eported by a
In July 1959 to be a leader, together with one| s)
fa Cuban counter-revolutionary movement.
was reported to be a first cousin off
S/the Habana telephone directory
7 a lawyer, at Habana.
| gy iawrers ie

Morgan and GUTIERREZ are two Cuban Rebel Army majors who penetrated 4)
conspiracy that was smashed in August 1959.

Le
i
The Habana telephone directory lists aff 3t/ Habana

This is possibly a reference to ‘eported in July
199 Jas the notary handL the _purch £ the
for Spanish pro-Franco interests. Thel fas later
by the now known as the

5) )

en

The Habana telephone directory lists al af Avenidal
Ss

yb ) :

The Habana telephone directory lists al company of Cuba with main

offices at zabana. 5)

ny

This is possibly a reference_tol

on 16 June. d his son, d been held on
charges of consp: + A United Pregs report dated 2 July 1959 at Santiago,
Chi lawyer and one-time economic editor
Chile as an exile.

ake

press on 18 June 1959 as ol |
newspaper aad who yas released by Cuban wefan’ authorities *
ira

of|

G Se
Wealthy Cuban businessman with large sugar interests.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

NW 50953 Decld:32325941 Page 5

lealthy Cuban businessman-with-large-sugar_interestse. 0. << Ga ne oe et

