# 124-10114-10010

## Page 1

1124-10114-10010

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10114-10010

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-109090-356

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, PA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/28/1964

PAGES: 9

SUBJECT: WC, ASSISTANCE, NEWS MEDIA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/24/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/23/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

INC DIRECTOR, FBI RESPONSE, TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH AND CIA

LTR TO LEG, PA

HH 50953 DocId: 32156250 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OTTONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104-01

UNITED STATES GUVERIVMENT

Memorandum

ene!

• ENCLOSURE

TO :

Director, FBI (62-109090)

Secret, DATE:

10-28-64

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

FROM :

Legat, Paris

(62-148) (P.)

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

SUBJECT:

THE PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON

IN THIS DOCUMENTA

THE ASSASSINATION OF

Exerst Base

PRESIDENT KENNEDY

(K3/0/99)

DELEACH

Enclosed for the Bureau is one copy of a self-

explanatory

-Ca

memorandum along with a copy of the letter in Spanish

nentloned in the memorandum.

The Paris Office has referred this matter to

High General Staff (HGS), Madrid, Spain, with a request

for investigation by that service in

an effort to locate

and identify the sender of the letter, and to interview him

any data

he may be able to supply.

The results of this

Paris request

of the HGS will be promptly reported when

available. gU),

3 - Bureau (Enc. 2)

ENCLOSURE

(1 - Liaison Section)

1 - Paris

HPW :HD

NG utilini

Perist

Oh with / xeras

service had o

RORE

418P

112-03

Jason!

1cc96-604 truelatin to DE a Parie;

35

ISF2G2D

I0D ETE

ADITS

SI-7P (S

DAN 723207

GENCIES

ICES

#6-5862-109090 - 356

HEA 19422ICE

Clusstica

4-291 9803-000 ner

Classified by

110

aregory !

Exempt from

Date of Declassifica

on Indofinue i

REViEWED

21111

15 33

BECEINE!

secrety

let 10:

L

HH 50953

DocId: 32156250

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Xo 89

ECRET

2290 KX1

20 detober 1954

CIA HAS NO OPIECTION TO

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Mr. Norman Philcox

Legal Attache

(S)

DECLAS

RELEASE iT

FROM

IN THIS DOC ENG

R 3/0197)

SUBJECT

Crank Letter Concerning warren

Connession

Document

Our office in Madridhas sent us a copy of the attached

* Spanish-language letter addressed p/ the American Ambassador,

France

Spain

to impart.

After opening the second paragraph by saying chat he

had to flee Paris due to an indiscretion committed there, the

• author states:

"There (apparently Paris),

in the home ci

some American

friends, I got hold of an authen-

'tic document about the assadsination in Dallas,

which they say was swiped from the warren

Commission and which is certainly prejudicial

for President Johnson.

I have 1t on good

authority that they are currently trying to sell

• to no less than

the Director.of "Paris-Match.

Someone from the Embassy of the United Kingdom

In Paris is involved in the

.matter.

The author closes by suggesting that an advertisement be inserted

In a Madrid newspaper If there be any interest in further detalls

There are no traces from Madria on Anti in, PERIS, which

according to

almost certainly an alas.

to say there is no return

Needless (s]

address on the letter or envelope

was mailed from Barceiona on 26 September 1964.

which

forwarded us a copy of the letter on the off chance that we may

have received similar allegations;

in such case Madrid would. 6SJ

appreciate learning the details so

that they might inform the

Embassy. It was also suggested that we show you this, letter:"

has no traces on Antilin PERIS.

• to ter

00 :

United States Secret Service

Attn: Mr. John Hanly

42-10901 6354

10.5701

SEGRET.

NH

50953

DocId:32156250

Page

3

---

