# 124-90137-10012

## Page 1

124-90137-10012

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90137-10012

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-109117-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/15/1962

2

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

MARTHA AGUIAR Y SALCEDA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

AT

N9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32337216

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56) a

ALL INFORMATTON CONTAINED

FBI

Date:

3/15/62

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

(Type in pletnot

REGISTER DECRET

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

1150.

FROM

SAC, NEW YORK (I05-53884) (C)

57-11

1+12=

Classhied

maclasciny

21

1326

SUBJECT:

51068 SID/Eil

35 9803 1.20/

DADR

MARTHA AGULAR I SALCEDA

MISCELLANEOUS-INFORMATION CONCERNING

(NATIONALITIES INTELLIGENCE)

67-1076443-7

ReNYlet 2/14/62.

12-13-97

CAS"

56l08 s00/USR

MARTHA AGUIAR telephonically contacted th

(JFK

NYO on 3/5/62, and advised that she was presently residing

at 340 Nest End Ave. Apartment-1B; NYC, and desired to talk

to the No concerning an important matter.

AGUIAR was interviewed

on 3/5/62, at which

-time she stated that she had received two letters from JOSE

MANUEL MARTINEZ SIERRA who is the General Manager of Pfizer

Corporation in Havana, Cuba.

Miss AGUIAR stated that MARTINEZ

wrote the letters on 2/8,10/62, and in these letters stated

that it was absolutely necessary that she do whatever she

could to hasten the request for a waiver visa for him in order

to leave Cuba because his situation there was very bad due to

his underground activities.

Miss AGUIAR stated that MARTINEZ

resides at Calle 47, #762 entre Conill y Tulipan, Apartment 5,

Nuevo Vedado, Havana, Cuba.

Miss AGUlAh advised that she was furnishing this

information in order that the Bureau could furnish it to

CIA and to

in Havana,

Twho was very close to MARIINEd S

and who knows what MArtInEZ was doing therel

Miss AGUIAR also advised that in his letter.of

FO/62, MARTINEZ stated that the Pfizer

Corporation was finished

that for all

practiga

purposes the company had

3-Bureau (RM). (Encls

1/00 =

5 109147-

1-New York (105-53884)

FJO:mEw (312)

MAR Z0 1962

Approved:

Special Ágent in

arge

JLORET

HISN

HW 50953

DooId: 32337246 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 105-53884

SECRET

been intervened by the Cuban Government and that he no longer

would not join the militia.

Miss AGUIAR stated that in his

letter of 2/10/62, MARTINEZ also stated that he had requeste

TOE LOREDO, the General Manager of Pfizer Corporation in Mexico

City, to attempt to get a waiver visa for him to leave cuba,

and indicated this request was made of LOREDO in December, 1961,

but to this date, MARTINEZ had not received any information

regarding his request.

mexico..

On 3/13/62, MiSS AGUIAR furnished the NYO witr

two letters, one from JOSE LOREDO, General, Manager, PASTIN

International, Mexico City,

directed to JOSE MANUEL MARDENEZ

SIERRA,

Havana, Cuba.

The second letter is a letter which was

dated

3/6/62,

from PEDRO/LOPEZ, also. known as Perro

Which Is intended for CIA, Agent

catbarten,

This letter is a request for

to do something

MARTINEZ SIERRA ta ge

waiver visas

far him and his family ta)

leave Havana, Cuba

Miss AGUIAR stated that

San get all

necessary information for the waiver visas from the sister-in-law

of MARTINEZ SIERRA, WhO is MrS. LUISA DE LAMPEZUELA

Adams Street, Apartment 815, Arlington, Virginiat

200k North.

These letters are being enclosed for the Bureau

To Tannis al to TA and tor ay action they desire to

Miss AGUIAR was informed that the Bureau

in no way could assist in obtaining a waiver visa for MARTINEZ

SIERRA and his family.

PECUE SECRET

HW 50953

DocId: 32337246

Page

---

