# 124-10369-10049

## Page 1

124-10369-10049

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10369-10049

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-H9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO:

USSS

TITLE:

DATE: 12/19/1969

• PAGES:

289

SUBJECTS:

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY OSWALD

VOLUME XXI

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/20/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

INC FOLDER, LIST, MEMO, A/T, LET, R/S, S/S, RAPSHEET, TTY, INSERT, FD-302, ENV,

TABS, NOTE, DRAFT MEMO, COURT ORDER, NEWS RELEASE

v9.1

NH 50953

31

DooId: 32319415

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRETI

SAC, New Yorks (65-23422)

Director, FBI (65-09127)

MICHAEL JELIBAVCIC, aka

EBP i R

11/6/69

NET-

Goble

Ar.

McW111ams

STA

STAASITE;

Reference in made to Dapartment of State telegr

dated 10/15/00 fron Babusay Honcow,

to State Headquarter.

5)Ayhich reported mubject as ordered by the Soviets on 10/29/80

, Copies of reterenced telegran were

(a) previously tarnished to lew York and Chicago.

Lew York should remain alert to return of subject

to the United States for the purpose of interview concurta

1.

19/02119930

Informntion on lim Drewlously turninhed by "Bemmy."

Dont

In mind during any forthcoming interview that the Sovlots

save in the pot experted invionals

Iron the USER to corpr

the faot ho in 1 dewloped KCB sont 3) Subject should almo

be curationed concernie his same and

phons number bette

In the addrous book of Loe Harvey Orwald.

33/99

I - Chicago

CLASSIFIED BY 5668-540 de

1 = 070 (65-9483)

DECLASSIFY ON: 29X

SPORTA GEL 211, 326-1/28190

ALL INFORVATION CONTAINED

HERSIN IS UNOLAEDAFIED

EXCRET WENS SHORE

OTHERWISE

# 24,324

Classified

Declassif

OR: OADRI2-4-84

IM:as

(7)

20 B24/05

d2188

NOTE:

Sammy,

Sovlet defector- 1n

ace, davised that the 7th

Department, KGB, had been monting

operation gatnt trosubject,

American Express representative in Moscow.

We are desirous of

Interviewing subject concerning what he knows about the operation

against him.

It should be noted that Arseneit ippel, predecessor

of subject in Moscow, was recruited

admitted same.

SA INFRIN NOTE CLASSIFIE

PER CTR. 0T0./417/81

SD6BSAGC

9415/858

8211, 774

CIA HAS NO DEUEGRONAO EURZ COT

DECLASSO

SACANTEERI

CE CA INFORMATION-

SEE REVERSE

SIDE FOR

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

LENSECRET

NH 50953 DooId: 32319415

Page 2

---

## Page 3

at can l had to

VENTIAL

C 174

"TO

ION

AS SANITIZED

IN TAJ COsamant CIC - 3/10/97)

(STATE DEPT INTO IS DECLASSIFIED

PER SHAWCORON

10/25095)

C BANKETED INFO

CLASSIFIED

UPERADES tO SECRET PERCIN)

Honorable William P. Rogers

Secretary of State

Washington, D.C.

5601 Potomac Avenue,

, N.W.

Washington, D.C.

20016

July 25; 1969

Dos

REVIEWED BY #BUJFK TASK FORCE

ONd.

8-10-2

IS BELSANE IN FULL

E, REAGE IN PART

Dear Mr. Secretary:

In winding up my affairs at the Department of State, there is a pend-

ing matter which I believe merits your attention.

Lee Harvey Oswald, the presumed assassin of President Kennedy, was

alledgedly present at a party given by a Mexican communist sympathizer

and attended by the Cuban Consul, a veteran intelligence.officer, when

he was in Mexico shortly before the assassination.

There are allega

tions that the Mexican Government may have been aware of Oswald's

presence at that party and that the Cuban Government may have tried to

intimidate others who saw him there.

A careful investigation of these allegations could perhaps explain

them away. Until then, however, their public disclosure could reopen

the debate about the true nature of the Kennedy assassination and

damage the credibility of the Warren Report.

Since I was the Embassy officer in Mexico who acquired this intelli-

gence information, I feel a responsibility for seeing it through to

Pits final evaluation. Accordingly, I have prepared a memorandum

# (enclosed) explaining this information and its initial assessment, keyed

Lto three memoranda of conversations with my Mexican informant.

I believe you would want to consider carefully whether to let well

enough alone in this case, or whether the risks attending possible

public disclosure of these

allegations make further investigation

warranted

Respectfully

1: 72-26-009

Charles William Thomas

Enclosure:

Memorandum and four attachments.

NH 50953

DocId: 32319415 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL

CIA HAS MA ADJECTION TO

July 25, 1969

D..

OVATION AS SANITIED

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: Investigation öf Lee Harvey Oswald in Mexico

I. While serving as Political Officer in the U.S. Embassy in Mexico

• City from 1964 to 1967, I became quite friendly with the Mexican play-

right, Elena Garro de Paz.. An intellegent, witty, and outspoken woman,

I found her a very useful if sometimes biased source of political gossip

and personal history on significant Mexican personalities. She introduced

my wife and me to many important people in Mexico.

She was also parti-

cularly knowledgeable about agrarian affairs. A biographic report that

I prepared on her on May 3, 1966 is attached (Tab A) •

2.

On one occasion, Miss Garro inadvertently mentioned to me that she

had been at a party with Lee Harvey Oswald and two American companions

when Oswald was in Mexico just before the Kennedy assassination.

party had been at the home of her cousin, Ruben Duran.

• The memorandum

of that conversation, dated December 10, 1965, is attached (Tab B). I

had not read the Warren Report, but I assumed that if Oswald had been

to such a party in Mexico, it would have been well known to the Embassy.

I also knew Miss Garro to be something of a professional anti-communist

who tended to see a communist plot behind any untoward political event.

However, the episode about her being escorted into hiding at an obscure

hotel intrigued me. Accordingly, I decided to report the matter in

writing. I gave the memorandum of conversation limited distribution

within the Embassy, and did not send any copies to Washington.

3. A few days later I was called to the office of Mr. Winston Scott,

who headed the Embassy's Political Research Section (CIA). Also present

was MT. Nathan Ferris, the Enbassy's Legal Attache (FBI). They had noted

with interest my December 10 memorandum of conversation.

They pointed

out that there had been a great many rumors about Oswald at the time of

the assassination and that some could not be verified and others had

proved false.

They asked me, however,

to try and get a more detailed

replay of Miss Garro's story.

Mr. Scott made clear that the FBI had full

responsibility for any further investigations of the Oswald case!

4. In a memorandum of conversation dated December 25, 1965 (Tab C), I

provided a much more detailed and accurate restatement of Miss Garro's

alleged encounter with Oswald and subsequent developments.

Certain errors

in my original presentation were corrected.

Miss Garro guessed that the

date of, the party at her cousin's house was' in early September, 1963. She

admitted that she had gone to the Embassy to report briefly about this matter

on an earlier occasion.

NH 50953 DocId: 32319415 Page 1

---

## Page 5

SECRET

(CONFIDENTIAL

3

Durans after the assassination about a party which Oswald had reportedly

attended, but that the transcript of the interrogation was entirely

unsatisfactory by normal investigatory standards. Furthermore, the party

inquired about was not the one at Ruben Duran's house, reported by

Elena Garro, but at an entirely different place. This transcript may

well be the source of Mr. Ferris' belief that Elena Garro's story had been

checked out and found to be untrue.:

i to be there let that e.

10.

It would appear: that whereas the FBI has discounted the Elena Garro

allegations, the CIA is still considerably disturbed by them. The CIA

may not have pressed for further investigation, however, for a number of

reasons: 1) considering the sensitive overlap and subtle competition

between two intelligence collecting agencies, it had to yield to the

FBI's clear jurisdiction; 2) there are obvious complications in conducting

such an investigation in a foreign country; 3) there is a close and

delicate relationship between the CIA Station Chief and Ehe [

and 4) some of

the people (S

appearing in the Elena Garro scenario may well be agents of the CIA.

Under

the circumstances it is unlikely that any further investigation of this

matter will ever take place unless it is ordered by a high official in

Washington.

11.

If all the allegations in the attached memoranda were true, they

would not, in themselves, prove that there was a conspiracy to assassinate

President Kennedy. However, if they were ever made public, those who

have tried to discredit the

Warren Report could have a field day in

speculating about their implications. The credibility of the Warren Report.

would be damaged all the more if it were learned that these allegations

were known and never adequately investigated by the

competent American

authorities.

12. Reference is made again to the biographic report (Tab A) on Elena

She is hardly an ordinary or average person. Her strengths and

weaknesses become exaggerated precisely because she is not. It would

be easy and convenient to sweep this matter under the rug by claiming

that Miss Garro is an unreliable informant since she is emotional,

opinionated, and "artistic." I have been affected at times by that

temptation, myself. No American official, however, knows her better than

On the basis of the facts that I have presented, I believe that,

on balance, the matter warrants further investigation.

13. Finally, the record should show that a representative of a major

American publication has at least some knowledge of

this story.

Charles William Thomas

July 25, 1969

CON

EGRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32319415 Page 5

---

## Page 6

N7: 50953

DocId:32319415

Page

6

---

## Page 7

*

BUNDY

Tile

with

T's

62-109060 - 5061 414/07 gram Na..

paste cancer

that Burly was push a led to

Be endinia his tentering ear wit term

I get out f his outer

12-109060-0330

5/10/07 CMN to Ret

Astheis Witchell, go. = Bundy mede dee

ith barrow. the made sta

y up chow sheer

I in turn for being lift out o presn

Dyr .

62 - 109060 - 5106 4/19/67 LHM 1 DeT.

foura (NO 1318. c)

peris

60: 109066-6035 1/9/18 tr.

Bardy amateur ND PS preced sting polo 8,

fee pres,

1/8/68 PS NO. 110-282

Bundy

rested get around pobberg. Offiles

refused by Dist, aby

NH 50953

DoId: 32319415 Page 7

---

## Page 8

REU

DIRECTOR, FBI

7/15/69

SIC, LFO (62-0-19290)

ARE INFORMATICE CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNDE

4507 3 2229

SAMUEL P. BERZON

MISCALL/NIOUS - INFORAATION CONCEENING;

IS - ISR/EL

21331998-56834 hale

DECLASSIFY ON; 25X

JFK

BelFOlet to Bureau dated 1/7/63, under first.

character above, no copy Mè, which enclosed a copy of a

letter dated 12/9/62, from subject to INS and in which he

indiçated he had ettended the U.S. Naval icademy. A copy

of subject's letter is enclosed for the information of up.

For the additional information of the Bureau and

Ni's On 7/10/69, VP 569-5* reported| that S/NUEL 1. BARRON (Sp), LS

contacted the Airbossy of Israel, from Minnesots, exact LS.

Location not obtained by inforrant, at which time he

Inquired of Jiss PNINA OLLiCK, a secretary at the Embassy, CS

as to the status of a letter he

had written to the imbassy

a few weeks ago.

Pork CKJasked as to the neture of the

contents of the letter and subject said he did not cara

to discuss its contents over the telephone. Hovever, he

did state he has quite a military beckground in the U..;

has not been nble to get clesrance to servelin the Isreli LS-

Defense Forces, singe he might lose his eitizenship, but

Eliought [the Israeli might find sorething suitable for him. (5)

He mentloned that his letter also contains "many things of

¿ political nature", which he thought the Israelts should CS

know abost; that he had been(to the Embassy & couple of (S

yers ago; that he could not seCto Israel then and that he

(5J

could not reveal the reason why, but that he told ill about

this in the letter.

¿ccording to informant, (roll C2)did not give subject (S

an affirmative onaver as to the status of his letter, or es

to that ection would be taken in the metter.

(3) - Burest

(1 - 005-10929) (EM8/5SY OF ISRAEL) (5)

2 - Minneapolis (Enc. 1) (301)

2 - FFO

C1 - [205-524) (EMBASSY OF IRRED (5)

CRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32319415 Page 8

---

## Page 9

CR

MITC 62-0-19290

If Infomation ETomEr 569-S us disseminated, (SJ

it should be classifted "Secret - No Foreign Dissemination"

field. In the event It prepares e comunication which may

subsequently be disseminated and which includes information

fromEr 568-5* the cover communication should explieitly CS]

that the Ilet, or report, contains information which

should be designated&SCOPy. The Bureau will stamp the CS

document prior to dissemination.

Since there is no indicetion that subject is presently

in the dimed Services, it being noted that in his letter to

Ills, above, he furnished his employment as Vitro Leboratories,

Silver Spring, lld., and the fect that his erret location 1s

unknown, no recormendation is being made to further identify

subject. However, It should search its indices on subject

and furnish the Bureau and WFO the results theraof. It is

further requested that i designate a copy o. its repty to

the Dureau end

NFO Elles on the Embessy of Israei.VS

. •

114101

= 2=

NH 50953 DocId: 32319415 Page 9

---

