# 124-90137-10357

## Page 1

124-90137-10357

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90137-10357

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM: CIA

TO:

DOS

TITLE :

[Restricted]

DATE: 08/16/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

HENRYK IGNACY JANIKOWSKI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

19.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32337591 Page 1

---

## Page 2

10222 m

SEGRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIRISATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT FOR bRACKETS

KP 5-18-98

Deputy Assistant

Department of State

secretary fo

Classited

selessi

16 AUG 1963

FROM:

Deputy Director, Plans

Security

546852

034.00

SUBJECT:

JANIKOWSKI,

Henryk Ignacy

DOB:

POB:

4 Sept. 1921

Wiele, Bydogoszcz, Poland

-105-7-250

2.8626

1. Reference is made to the name check request, dated

18 June 1963,

subject as above, whose

name

you desired

checked

wagainst the files.of.this. office.

The files contain the

following information concerning

subject.

2.

Accordino to a renort dated 23 March 1961

the Bremer Bank in Bremen (5)

1CLE

316%

105

Mexican anbassy in Moscow,

I, Bremen Munthe, West Germany.

3.

rogated

On the basis of this infe monste

possible intelligence involvement.

During the interrogation,

SCHOTT provided the following inforzation concerning-Subject:

SCHOTT first becane acquainted vili Subject in 1940 when he

resided in Subject's home in Gerany.

Subject, who had moved

to Poland, wrote to schotT

in 19.7 and asked him to buy used

cars and ship them to him.

Sub,sos transmitted to SCHOTT

dollars and dollar checks for puzchasing the cars via an

unknown Polish sailor.

Subject told SCuote that he had obtained

the mong chort bellowves hat,

the money on the black market and from exhibitors at the Poznan

Fair.

SCHOTT believed that Subject obtained the money from

Poles who had

relatives in the United States. During a visit

to Belgium in

1957, Subject purchased several second-hand taxis

and cars for shipment to Poland.

Subject visited Schort in

late 1957 and purchased a Renault to take back withhim to Poland.

for the purpose of avoiding the custons

Jasy on the car, SCHOTT

gave subject a statement to the effect

he was

FBJ INTO

7-4-98

105-246427ve.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLIKSR

2,02

DECLAGGIT

79

(JFK)

V SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

if matering.

- loanie, and

declassificalion

SEP F 1863

HW 50953 DocId: 32337591 Page 2

ORIGINAL

FILMI

---

## Page 3

SECRET

NO FOREIGN - DISSEM

In 1959 SCHOTT visited Subject in Gdansk,

Poland. Subject

told ScHoTT that he could obtain dollars

from "an employee

of an embassy" which he would send to SCHOTT for desposit

in his account at the.

dollars for zlotys at

is pract market exchange rate *e

SCHOTT'S

wife, who was also interrorated, stated that checks arrived

by mail from an employee of the Mexican Embassy in Warsaw,

Poland, which hor husband deposited in Subject's account.

Among documents obtained (officially from the Bremer Bank was

a letter from Mexican Ambassador In Warsaw, Eduardo ESPINOSA

y PRINTO, accompanying a check for one thousand dollars for

Subject told SCHOrT

that in 1950 his mald had reportod to the Polish authorities

Subject was investigated but was

1961, Subject again visited SCHOTT and from Germany went to

Zelzate, Belgiu,

to settle a debt from automobile buying

operations in 1957.

Subject visited his sister in Paris,

France, and returned with her to Bremen in a new Peugot which

he had

bought in Holland' in his sister's name.

Subject then

shipped the car to Poland.

4 According to

evidence

was uncovered that would indicate SCHOTT was Involved in

intelligence activities.

CSCI-3/777,473

Encl. 1 name check

CC:

Federal Bureau of Invostigation

GROUP 1

Excluded from automet:

dewagrading and

declassiflemica

THose

AW 50953

DooId: 32337591 Page 3

---

