124-10029-10403)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 11/17/20

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10029-10403
RECORD SERIES: MX ‘
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 105-3702-1400
Document Information -
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG
TO: FILE .

TITLE:

DATE: 01/13/1978

PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS :
LHO, POST-RP, TRA, TRIP TO MX 9/26/63, FOIA REQUEST
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 12/10/1997 ‘
OPENING CRITERIA; APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS :

v9.4
HW 52333 DocId:32127066 Page 1


ALL

}
-
nN

1-13-78 eee ence

s
ee

0 CyECRET

ATTACKS AGAINST nok bow :

FILE (80-10)

As shown in my memorandum of 12-13-77, the Bureau
identified some of the materials in the KENNEDY investigation
which were released on 12-7-77 as those which apparently
attracked the attention of at least one reporter from a
Mexican newspaper in Washington. Mr. ROBERT DUNN, the
Ambassador's Assistant, was in Washington the following
weekend and brought back with him three separate sections
which had been furnished to him at the Bureau. These sections
represent the 524 page report of former SA WARREN C. DE
BRUEYS at Dallas on 12-8-63. One section, pages 315 - 359,
relates to the Mexican travel of LEE HARVEY OSWALD. To date,
there have been no articles of a -sensational nature appearing
in the Mexican press based on this material.

: In addition, on 1s-7,[ dN eaghe
to this office a set of documenté which had been forwarded

by his Headquarters which appeared to represent raw Bureau
file material pertaining to the Mexican aspects:.of the OSWALD
investigation, At his suggestion, copies of th€s€documentS
were made for temporary ion in the files of this office
and the set furnished by gs returned to him on 1-6-78.

For the time being, all of this material is being
placed in a Bulky Exhibit Envelope of captioned file so
that it will be available for reference if needed.

: Lele ry tusloele ]

epignt cot! iy OB GRBs

wRORMAT

Wis US

~ 105-3702 (OSWALD)

ON rae
LASSXFIED

JJF:1mg
(2)

ALL INFORV

| §2333 Doclda:32127066 Page 2 ‘
