# 124-90138-10022

## Page 1

124-90138-10022|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90138-10022

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 64-45716-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/06/1962

2

CIA LIAISION MATERIAL

ENGLISH LANGUAGE CUBAN PROPAGANDA BROUGHT

INTO JAMAICA IN MA

DOCUMENT. TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

Hif

50953

DocId:32337753

Page 1

---

## Page 2

INFORMATION

REPOR

INFOR

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

TION REPORT

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title

18, U.S.0. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

NOFORN /CONTINUED CONTROI

COUNTRY

Jamaica/Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

English language Cuban

Propaganda

Brought into Jamaica

in May 1962

DATE DISTR.

C5-3/575,372

6 July 1962

Cutes

DECLASS TI

T AND/OR.

NFORMATION

- 28- May 1962

PLACE &

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCOPY

BRACKETSI

DATE ACQ. Jamaica,

Kingston (5 June 1962)

FIELD REPORT NO. JK-L

SKO/KSR

THIS IS

UNEVALUATED

INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

SOURCE:

Appraisal of Content: 2.

1-03-94

FAT ador

9803 Rooleti

211326

1.

Felix Munoz Cardenas,

Third-Class Auxiliary Assistant

of the Cuban

Consulate in Kingston,

• Jamaica, returned to Kingston on 28 May 1962 from

a recent trip to Cuba, he brough with him a considerable quantity of

Cuban propaganda in English.1

Munoz was met at the Palisadoes Airport

by Altonso Herrera Perdomo,

the Cuban

Commercial Attache;

no; and Richard Fart, a vela-noem Jamaican

a well-inown Jamaican

Communist.

Some-of the printed matter brought in by Munoz was detained

for inspection by the Jamaican customs officials, who made an effort

to check the baggage of Munoz and two other Cuban diplomats, Agustin

Yassels Gonzalez and Guillermo Salgado Alvarez, who had arrived on the

plane with Munoz.

Both Herrera and Sanchez

"stubbornly resisted a

baggage search and none was carried out.

The publications and other

materials were released to Herrera on 1 June.

2

The publications brought into Jamaica by Munoz. consisted of an estimated

30 to 40 copies each of sixteen different books and magazines.

in English and had been prepared in Cuba by or on behalf

of the Cuban

Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

The titles are as follows:

"And Havana Woke Up Under the Imperialist Air Attack!

• (speech by Fidel Castro)

"Committed to Our Own Principles"

"Cuba at Punta del Estel

Ine hole ai foreign Ald in the Development of Cuba

conomic Lectures by Major arnesto Che Guevara

"A Journey of Peace

and Solidarity" (Dr. Osvaldo Dorticos)

"History Will Absolve Me" (Fidel Castro)

"The Revolution

is Here to Stay!

(Fidel Castro)

STATE

X ARMY

X | NAVY

REPCINCIANT

CINCARIB #.

(Note: Washington distribution indicated by "X"; Field distribution by "#".)

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROI

X. LAIR

X INSA

IX JOCR

DIA

USIA

Excluded trem surelit

declazsilcatien

X

FBI

I&NS

INFORMATION

REPOR

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

ASSIFIED

151950 65 02 6A87

GEK

25: 1962

INFORMATION REPOR

114

7-20-62

Acm/lak :

2.000-

64

plies enta sin a is 45716

NH

50953

DocId: 32337753 Page 2

---

