# 124-90137-10304

## Page 1

124-90137-10304

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90137-10304

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

CR 105-126278-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PAPICH

TO:

BRENNAN

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

12/12/1963

2

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

VALERIANO BARJA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

V9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32337538 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Let to mom

# OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

3UIC-100

GSA GEN.

REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM

N2. D. J. Brennan, 5x-p

Mr.

S*.

J. Papicl

SUBJECT:

VALERIANO

IS - CUBA

BARJA

Tolson -

Belmont _

Mohr -

Casper -

Callahan -

Contad

DeLoach -

DATE: 12/12/63

SECRET

Evans --

Gale tim

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel

Trotter

ALL INFORMATION CONTATNED

Tele. Room

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

Holmes --

Gandy -

WHIRE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Warmall

Reference is made to memorandum dated 12/9/63, from Mr.,

Wannall to Mr. Sullivan. Pursuant to instructions, the

Liaison

Agent furnished Austin Horn, CIA, two copies of a memorandum on

12/10/63. At the same time, the CIA representative was asked to

inform us (1) whether CIA has facilities for establishing contact

with the subject at Gander, Newfoundland and (2) whether CIA

desires information concerning possible contact with subject be

passed to him prior to contact.

Horn furnished the following to

the Liaison Agent on 12/11/63.0

A would not

be able to establish contact with subject at Gander without brief-

ing the

concerning the background of this matter. It would

then be necessary to handle the contact with

CIA is interested in the potential offered in

_(5)

this matter but wouid

prefer to explore the possibilities of contact with subject in

another country. Since the memorandum disseminated by the Bureau

indicated that subject has occasion to fly to Mexico and Europe,

CIA would like to have additional details concerning subject's

flying schedules to those particular areas. CIA would also like

toaknow if the subject speaks English.

A search of CIA files by Horn disclosed the following

information. In February, 1962, a "fairly reliable source" described

the subject as a communist. The source did not furnish any other

details.

In

March,

acterized

the subject as

CIA source of unknown reliability char-

"fanatical supporter of Castro."

same source suggested that subject might try to penetrate Castro

1

CASIFED BE 362: 5207352

5-23-98

- Mr. Wannall

Mr. Nasca

Liaison

Mr. Papich

DECLASSIFY US: 20X T. REC. 46

(JFK)

105 126278-3

(FK)

CIA HAS NG 08F076.1963

• DECLASSIFIZSTION AND/OB.

+*.

12-7.

IN IHIS DOCUMCI

EXCEOT BRACKETS

KP 5-18-98

SECRET

HH 50953 DooId: 32337538 Page 2

---

