426-40003~10487:

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10003-10487
RECORD SERIES: MX
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:  105-3702-415, 416

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MX
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE: 03/10/1964
PAGES: 29
SUBJECT: SEE FBI 105-82555-2606

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: 12/23/1998 UPDATE DATE: — 11/03/2000

STATUS  Redaet
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(A)
SEK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS: INC MEMO, LHM

RW 50953 DocId:32114613 Page 1


an _ * 10) : . QO s

ORUNE:

yy
eg W/DIRECTOR, FBI (105~82555) 3/10/64
a3 g Se
B= OR LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (105-3702) (P)“ana, neronuarion comrarms
Fs 2 $ eS ee BEREIN 18 UNCLASSIFIED EROMST
Ses =\OLEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka iaiiied

Ba *®° Is- R- CUBA :
2298 5
=a SO
BSS Z vcrosunes:

‘ Enclosed for" the Bureau are 30 copies of a letter-
head memorandum dated’ and captioned as above,

REFERENCES :

Mexico City letter dated 1/13/64; Bureau cables
dated ER 64 and 2/12/64; Mexico City cables dated 2r/on
and 3/5/6 re allegations of YLARIO ROJAS VILLANUEV.

Antonio cable to Bureau, Dallas and Houston dated Behan 3
Houston letterhead memorandum dated 2/28/64.

ADMINISTRATIVE:
seminated local, rge d'affaires of the

to Oma. ip
ec Samine\ 14 ee wmmation was receiv

M. SCOTT, Head of the ¢: pt yone Mexico City,

dated 1/20/54 to Legat, Mexico’ City, marked "SEORET," cap-
tioned "LEE HARVEY OSWALD" and is being set forth in the
cover le ter, along with emorandum mentioned below date
2/18/64, (in view of CIA's est that the information was((A)
not to be disseminated otitside this office without prior

approval of the originating office in Mexico City;
et forth that on VAT/oh a oe

This m
was received from ae Represe, tat. ive

Merida, Yueatani]

Copies of enclosed letterhead memorandum were stan

5 - Bureau (Enes. - 30)
{3 - Liaison Seotion)
2 Dallas, 100-10461)

* Ps Mexics ais
ein
(6) #

br Declussity ons OAR.

39 OD - ULE
Gye FF.

HW 50953 DocId:32114613 Page 2



° SECRET

o

described by SOLIS as: 30 years old, 5' 8", about

185 pounds, stocky, ‘skin ‘moreno, ! black Straight

hair, mustache and with a long face. | He usually

works as a chauffeur or farmer. SOLIS said Bladio
VILLANUEVA’ Ramirez did not seem subject, to aberrations (XD

“"Neither..Daniel. SOLIS" nor. any of several other
contacts in (Cozumel. have heard of . talbert.

“By memorandum dated 2/186eydirected to the’ ne pg

Mexico. City, |f INSTON M.. SCOTT, ch memorandum wai
marked "SE the: go. nf ddttional information wa
set forth: . a > Sinus =e =

SOLIS. was veinterviewed “an: February 1 196 x>

furnished the following - ommaticn in
asked him: LC

, "Sorts states has’ not received esther o of
the two letters’ Eladic VILLANUEVA. claims ‘to have & >)
sent him récently. .

"SOLIS: dgain stated that he does not have any
notebook ‘belonging to VILLANUEVA. He said that ae <4 >
such .a.notebook came to him he would forward Lt to
the address given.

"SOLIS stated that, according to His recollec-
tion, VILLANUEVA arrived in Cozumel in June 1963 and >
left (about) 4 July 19653 aboard a. ferryboat ‘Alberto! -
for Puerto Juarez.

"golts recalla now that he had received some .
three (3) letters from VILLANUBVA. ‘These were mailed
in Quadalajara and were sent in the months immedi-
ately following VILLANUEVA's departure from Cozumel.
SOLIS sdid-he answered all three, and in the last 1
letter SOLIS wrote to VILLANUEVA he asked VILLANUGVA om
to repay the 500.pesos ($40 U.S.) he had loaned : -)
VILLANUEVA, SODIS.said he never heard from. VILLA-
NUEVA after that.

"In one of the three letters, VILLANUEVA asked
SOLIS 1f he would 11ké to:be a 'secret police agent!
in Cozumel. SOLIS has no other information concerning SK?

this. AEC LT

HW 50953 DocId:32114613  Paye 3


eg Q
SECRET

. "goLIS eontends he had no information on pos~
sible contacts VILLANUEVA might have had with Cubans
or Americans in Cozumel. yO : : ~

Me 105-3702

"SOLIS sadd that when VILLANUEVA was not. work-
ing.as an talbanil'. (bricklayer), he spent his time.
weeding and cutting brush at SOLIS', home. VILLANUEVA
‘was usually in the hammock by 2030 hours. SOLIS and: =
VILLANUEVA sometimes visited the Mayalum Nightclub ia

together; V- A did not appear to be much of a
drinker. @g@l : to

"SOLIS said VILLANUEVA arrived in Cozumel with ©
a Sergeant Second Class 'POLO.' ‘POLO' was arriving
at anew assignment at the Cozumel Military Base;
‘VILLANUEVA claimed to have met. 'POLO' in Mexico City.

‘POLO! came to SOLIS' house tyice after VILLANUEVA (4 Sy
left, looking for VILLANUBVA [
" . q
"SOLIS claims, that the three letters he received 7 55 ™~s
from VILLANUEVA have all been burned.", ae

SA JOSEPH B. GARCIA advised that. after he. interviewed
DANIEL SOLIS at. Cozumel on SOLIS hinted that he
have misinforme ning the length. of ROJAS;
Stay In Cozumel e of possibly protecting his \
i relative, ROJAS, who is actually the uncle of SOLIS’ wife,

and also because he paid little attention to the actpal

length of ROJAS' stay. f ae §

It is noted that other items contained ROSAS!
notebook, which was obtained from SOLIS in Cozumel, were call-
ing cards, one of which had the name on it of WALTER A, GATES,
Customs Agent, San Diego, California, U. S. Treasury Depart-
ment, and the other card had the name on it of REY L. HATCH,
Customs Investigator, U. S. Treasury, Laredo, Texas. .

Upon, interview 3/5/64, ROSAS advised he cannot
recall who these persons are nor. how he came into possession =~
of their calling. cards. For information, 1¢ is knows that
HATCH is a U. S. Customs Agent who was and may still be
“stationed at Laredo, Texas.

: By cable dated 1/25/64, the Bureau requested that . @
4 efforts be made. to arrange a polygraph examination of ROJAS =)

Ped Agen Mire
~EE-SD

HW 50953 DocId:32114613  Paye 4
