124-10311-10292|

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/14/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10311-10292

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 62-27799-513

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG, BR
TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: — 12/23/1964
‘PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS :
USSS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER,.TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

wd 3
NW 50953 DocId:32311270 Page 1


“OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 eect: so1005.03

RY 183 EDITION

UNITED STATES GOVER) ‘ENT

Memorandum. s

bo Y Director, FBI “parr: ~—- 12/23/64
‘ ,

Rom: y oe Bern (62-70) (RUC)
cH O

| | SUBJECT: RELATIONS WITH -SECRET. SERVICE
i THREATS AGAINST: THE PRESIDENT,

Wea

ReBulet 11/19/64. Ga op ah. = Liss.

Files of Legat, Bern, have been reviewed for
individuals residing in Switzerland and Austria considered
to be a possible threat to the President, and no one was
found to fit this category. ’

In addition, discreet inquiry was made of the
: following sources, all of whom had no knowledge of individuals
@y who might be considered threats:

Consular ‘Section, the Embass Bern;
yertice of Special Assistant | 1
: the Embassy, Bern}; 5
American Consulate General, Vienna; es
esearch. Branch | the Bnassy Sfer( ES
~ Vienna; RS) va
urity.Officer, the Embassy; Viepna. i
: In this regard, however, Bureau atténtion is. called
to the case entitled. PAUL GEORGE ANDERSON, aka, IS-X (Buf, Gg
100-415051). ANDERSON has been reported to be of interes
to the Secret Service (Legat, Paris, letter dated 10/16/64).
: While he does not reside in territory covered by this office, I

he is in rather frequent transit en route to Hungary, where
he is attempting to obtain a visa for his Hungarian wife to

enter the U.S. 4-97
eg CLASSIFIED BY 4G A
(1 - Liaison) ‘ DECLASSIFY ON:

2 ~- Bern RE.
(1 = 105-213) log GA :

zt -

HDG: mis eu 1. cat

(5) GIA Hage OBJECTION TO +4 DEC 28 WA

) ON, ANDIOR,

: GIA Neo ION,
Ba sag Tels UCUENT. PW Bum
basan Os

“HW 50953 DocId:32311270 Page 2

obese

