# 124-10208-10434

## Page 1

124-10208-104341

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10208-10434

RECORD SERIES: HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

2-1396-14

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, MX

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/26/1954

EB, WHEREABOUTS, GUATEMALA, CASTILLO ARMAS

REVOLUTION

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW. : 06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

N9.1

NH 50953

DooId: 32292158

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CI WAS N9 OR SONO% TO

TRO!

MON RUDOR,

RECURE CA CIA ICORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENTAS SANTIZED

G03 3/2/07. KP 1114/98

Date:

November

138932

SECRET

S023.94

TO:

Director, FBI (2-1396)

Clastia

From:

Legat, Mexico (97-12)

Declassity on:

ADA (JFK)

Subject:

EDWARD BROWDER,

JR., was

CLASSIEED BY 5668 SLO/GAL

REGISTRATION ACT

A 2/12197

Rebulet to Assistant Attorney General WILLIAM F.

lOM-KINS dated September L

1954, and the report of SA ROLE I.

ARSON dated at Mexico, D. F., June 25, 1954.

Ihis office has received from the [local CIAofficeS)

a copy o1 a report relating to the subject dated october 28,

1954, which was accompanied by a number of photographic copies

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEO EXCEPT

of documents which indicate that the subject may be in Guatemala

and that he claims to have participated actively in the success-

ful revolutionary undertaking of Colonel CARLOS CASTILLO ARMAS

in Guatemala. Since it is presumed that the Bureau will have

received the above-mentioned report and its accompanying photo-

graphs, no effort is being made by this office to duplicate and

furnish them to the Bureau, UACB.

SHOWR

MANUEL EDUARDO CABALLERO, confidential contact and

Costa Ricar revolutionary who participated in the CASTILLO ARMAS

overthrow of the ARBENz regime, has advised that information

WHERE

available to him fails to indicate that BROWDER actually partici-

pated in the CASTILLO ARMAS revolution as he claims. CABALLERO

is presently in Guatemala City, however, in the company of former

Costa Rican President RAFAEL CALDERON GUARDIA and, since they

expect to be in contact with Guatemalan President CASTILLO ARMAS

and other high officials of his administration, CABALLERO has

stated they will make inquiry concerning the subject in an effort

to determine whether or not he is in Guatemala and whether or not

he furnished arms for and/or participated in the Guatemalan

revolution.

The Bureau will be advised of the Information obtained

by CABALLERO upon his return to Mexico City.

renaine

RIL:rgb

for reviewESOstONSIeu rECORDED - 5

MISCA Requast 1/30/78

5& DEC 10 1048

1357

3-1316-

14

¿ Tablar

NH 50953 DocId: 32292158 Page 2

---

