124-90137-10284)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90137-10284
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 105-78890-27
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: BRENNAN
TITLE:
DATE: 07/05/1963
PAGES: i
SUBJECTS :
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
LEVI LAUB
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA.
COMMENTS : MEMO

Date:

4/21/201

v9.1

| NW 50953 DocId:32337518 Page 1


OPONAL fom HO. 10 é mr) ae v)

UNITED STATES GOVERN __2NT cy
- Memorandum SECRET

Tr op. BRENNg/S) pate: July 5, 196

FROM: S. J. PAPICE c ing ta

7 ;

SUBJECT: LEVI LAUB i
ee, UNAUTHORIZED TRAVEL TO CUBA ee
LY : i
v Reference is made to Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) -

letter dated April 18, 1963, captioned "U. S. Nationals in Cuba." |
The Liaison Agent was instructed to obtain more specific information
concerning subject's reported travel to Cuba. ‘The following was
furnished to.the Liaison Agent on July 3, 1963, by A. P.. Flynn, CIA: {

in Cuba during the period February 22-March 11.1042 —_CTA_nacejved ae

Information received by CIA indicated that the subject was {

mation from/- |
tained the sj
Who was’ in Cuba i he samy period described above. ha, ast

currentiyv tmowsd dime a an Francisco.
a

ans to contac i
in be made available i

nd wo:
Bureau for interview.

, i io Eng
ACTION: macoe via

The above information is being directed to the attention of
the Subversive Control Section.

Ss whereby]

1405-78890 CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO. (Ne ;
1 - Mr. Bland DECLASSIFICATION ANDYOR,
1 - Mr. Haack RELEASE OF CiA INFORMATION
coq ulaeon IN THIS DOCUMENT, évéep7 Foo Yhe brakes he ie
1 - Mr. Papich PE 6 14-48
SIP: gp (5) d 1 Ve
7 go- Freie
Rec. 69 (0S.2 Za et |
sur gn%63
K) awe . a —
& AE
CLASSIFIED BY, LOLKSe |
ECLASSIFY ON: 25X ai |
B2JUL 15 196g, DECLASSIFY ON 2 ot) iy
tae SECRET
UAL

HW 50953 DocId:32337518 Page 2

