# 124-90041-10009

## Page 1

124-90041-10009|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90041-10009

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-87909-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LALLIER

TO:

BELMONT

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/01/1961

2

JOSE RASCO BERMUDA

JOSE IGNACIO RASCO BERMUDA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

• COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32325927

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Declassif

ADR

7/16/85

AT:I

MAUNAAZION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED.

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES

ESTHENT

Memorandum

Mr. Belmont AlBITe

SECRET

03903:

TO

DATE: February 1, 1961

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

FROM : R. 0. L'Allier

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

Tolson

Mohr

Parsons

Belmont

Closes chan

Conrad

DeLoach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen -

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy ..

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

Alass

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BIL

SUBJECT: JOSE IGNACIO RASCO

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

KP 5-11.9

Reference is made to memorandum dated January 30, 1961,

from Mr. Donahoe to you describing an article which appeared in

the January 27,

1961, issue of "Washington Daily News."

In this

article the subject was quoted as predicting that acts of "great

importance" would occur within the next 10 days against the Castro

regime.

He implied that there would be "something more important

than sabotage." Liaison was requested to check with CIA concerning

the subject's statements and obtain any pertinent information

concerning the nature of the activities planned by the subject

or

his organization, the Christian Democratic Movement (MDC) • 34

On January 31, 1961,

Liaison Agent that CIA was fulfy

the art, advised te

advised the

statements attributed to Rasco.

Advised that there was

no basis whatsoever for the statement that something of "great

importance" would be happening within the next 10 days. He added

that Rasco's statements do not fit into anv immegiate plans being.

made by CIA through the project, CLIP.

characterized

Rasco as another Cuban who is "shooting off his mouth" to get

ittle publicity.

He explained that many of the Cubans have a

propensity for self-styling themselves experts on the Cuban

political situation and they enjoy any publicity they can get,

D9LR

ACTION:

For your information.

SJP: ban

(7)

- Mr.

1

formed fraid

Parsons

Mr.

Belmont

Mr. Donahoe

Mr. Cotter

Liaison

1

- Mr Papich

CLASSIFIED BY 5668

DECLASCIFY ON: 25X

- 105-87969-3

5-30-48 / 1

T&B 3 1961

BED RESIS

,81

JFIL)

11!9

62 FEB 10 1961

SECRET

SEE REVERSE,

SIDE FOR

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

7TH 50953 DOOTd: 32325927

Page 2

---

