# 124-10190-10078_16

## Page 1

124-10190-10078

i

I v ?iro

1 = 10.

W. Gray

W.

Redijeld

1/19/70

lolson

Croach

nicitors.

Richop

Compos

Calluhan

Conrad -

SAC, Denver (105- (151)

Diroctor, TBI (105»79256)

TICKAS RITA

HICCELLARCUS INTORMATION CCNCETNING

Congresarnn Domld G. Brotoman, Colorado, addressed.

a lorder dated 1/4/10 to the Attornay Baroral (NG) souuenting

intorniion fron hin concerning the diraynearance of suhject.

Enclosed is one con oach oi the Contecroman'n letter and

Burcau lotter. to ino AG anted 1/14/10 for your information,.

-Aloo enclosed for yous infocation is one copy eache

12/00 10 200 5/15/50 ad 9/150 Floe Doctor

nel without the

Jamun Rna To Loston 5/15.00

cated 6/c0/00; Focton report cated 3/31/00, 21l percainag

to subject.

tho above are boing furnished for the completion

0% your i11e.

express

your Committe and the

SECCABI

On 1/12/70 CIA advised through liaison that the surger

is not of onerational intosest to that Agency.

content may

emperiencing nartent dirticulces and had lett his wite.

nation misis vour Committee Its use

This document is prepared in

"goney cocs noi lave any infomation concorning subject's

present thercabouts.

In subsequent communientions concerning this natter

you should delete the charactor of IS - Ca and use the character

of this letter.

be disclosed

limited to

your request

Unless additional pertinent information is developed,

no invosciration neod se conducted by your ofice. Il addis

tional porilnent intoration is roceived corcorning this natter,

it should promptly be-lucnishod to the Durcau by LiM.

Enclosures •

8

1-9i6)

62

19.

BEG

19 JAN 19 1970

wauthorised person

offirial procecdings by

and is

not for dissemi-

JWIR: sei

15(5)

NOIE:

MAILED, 3

JAN 2 6 1970

COMM-FBI

Subject, a professor at the University of Colorado,

disappeared in arch,

1a9, 10 it tele seported to us

In ApIZI, 1909., Buffles disclosed that at one time subject

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE THO

SVAA

• 119700

¡PLITYPE UNIT

---

## Page 2

lottier to SAC, Danver

FE: - TICHAS RIHA

105-79256

NOTE CONTINUED:

mas di some interest to CIA.

On 1/15/59, CIA advised through

liaison that suhjoct had not left the u.s. and had been having

difficulty witb his wize and "ran away from her." CIA advised

the story or runor indicating subject my have gone to CY vas

without foundation.

In 12/69 Denver reccived a letter fron

subject's nother renuesting information concerning subject's

disappearance.

Denver replied this as a matier not within

the jurisdiction of the Bureau; however, oifered if she so

doered to place his name on the Dureau's missing persons

list.

Subject's mother replied to our Denver Office on

1/13/70 declining to have subject's name placed on the list.

On 12/23/69 "The Denver Post,"

a daily newspaper in Denver,

Colorado, published a lengthy article coucerning the disappear

ance of siniject.

Sy letter dated 1/3/70 Congressman Brotzman,

R-Colorado, also requested information concerning gubject's

disappearance fron the AG. We have conduted no investigation

of subject's disappearance since there are no indications of

a violation. of Federal law in our jurisdiction.

2

---

