# 124-10284-10400

## Page 1

124-10284-104007

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY :

' RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10284-10400

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-1566-10TH NR 1, 11TH NR 1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/24/1959

• PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

PDL, EXILE, CUBAN GOVERNMENT, REQ, EXTRADITION

PROCEEDINGS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC TTY

19.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32303888

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU. OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OCT 2 4 1959

SEGRET

E

TELETYPE

3-17-98

M'ASSIFIED BY 5618 SLO/USER

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR.

DEGLASSIFY ON: 25X

RELEASE OF CIA FOR BE

(JFK)

IN THIS DOCUMEN ExCEpt FoR

8-03

PM EST RBJ

mKH 2-6-98

Mr.

Tolso

Mis

Mr.

Mr.

McQuire.

Mr.

Mohr

Mr. Parsons_

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Tamm

Mr. Trotter

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Holloman

Miss Gandy-

10-24-59

TO DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM SAC, MIAMI

Pedes Dia g

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES, IS DASH CUBA.

MIAMI ATTORNEY

Do: Be CLINE, FORMER AUSA, MIAMI, CONFIDENTIALLY ADVISED THAT

APPROXIMATELY THREE FIFTEEN P. Me TODAY, JOSE RAMOS, CUBAN

VICE CONSUL ACTING IN CHARGE CUBAN CONSULATE, MIAMI,

TELEPHONED HIM LONG DISTANCE FROM HAVANA, STATING THAT CUBAN

GOVERNMENT WANTS TO FILE EXTRADITION PROCEEDINGS IMMEDIATELY

AGAINST A CUBAN EXILE IN MIAMI, RAMOS DECLINED TO FURNISH

istare

10/24159

ORIGINAL

COPY FILED N/09-544 00 8

AND CLINE HAS MADE ARRANGEMENTS TO CONTACT HIM NINE P. Mo

• TONIGHT, AT WHICH TIME RAMOS WILL PROVIDE IDENTIFYING DATA

AND OTHER INFORMATION PERTINENT TO FILING OF EXTRADITION

PROCEEDINGS AND HE DESIRES CLINE TO FILE: TONIGHT BEFORE U

DISTRICT JUDGE.

CLINE EXPECTS THAT: SUBJECT OF EXTRADITIOI

2r

PROCEEDINGS WILL BE PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ DUE TO GREAT

15 706304

IMPORTANCE WHICH CUBAN COVERNMENT IS ATTAGHING TO THIS MANWISE

MERE SHOWN

END PAGE ONE

NI CONTAINED NOT RECORDED

55 NOV 4

1959

ALL INFORMATIO

HEREIN

141 NOV 2 1959

UNC

SIFIED

SECRET

DATES

NH 50953 DocId: 32303888 Page 2

---

