# 124-10274-10001

## Page 1

124-10274-10001

andal do fit did.

seply Piruse Refer do

File, No.

YASHLNGTON, D.C. 20535

February 1, 1966

S:

#M0016: 1720%

CLASSIFIED BY SP2 AL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X/

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGTNCY

OPERATIONS I TIES UNITED STATES

(1)

CIA will not initiate an investigation of any

Loreign official in the United States without the concurrence

and cooicination of the IDI.

In this context, the term

"investigation" means systematic and

direct inquiries or

jocedures (such as physical or tochnical surveillances

or neighborhood inquiries) aiming at developing information

concerning as individual's activities or background;

"investigation" does not include the acceptance or the

-development of information through social, contacts or contac=s

_normally made by CIA agents in discharging their cover

functions. (5)

(2)

CIA Will senk

concurrance

and coordination of

the FBI before approaching for recruitment any foreign

official or communist-bloc visitor in the United States.

The FBI Will concur and coordinate it the proposod actios

does not conflict with any operation. current

or planned,

Including active investigation of the FBIs

(3) CIA will advise the FBI prior to any planned

meeting between a CIA asset and a foreign official or

communist-bloc visitor of known or presumed interest to

the FBI (this would include all communist-bloc officials

and visitors) for purposes of assessment and social

development. (S

(4). Clandestine CIA staif operatives,

and foreign agents of CIA recruite

abroad who come to the United States will be identified to

the IBI by name or appropriate description depending on

the national security interest involved. (S)

(5)

pursuant to paragraph 4 above,

arrives

in

when a CIA agent

the United

states for a visit or for an (5)

SECRET

GROUP I

Excluded from utoratic

doingrading end

declassification

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Central. Intelligence Agency

Operations In the United States

assignnont, the Bureau will be advised and

the two agencies

will confer regarding the handling of the agent in the

United States.

It is recognized that each case will have

•its individual peculiarities.

The governing principle will

be positive intelligence interest as weighed against

internal security iactors..

CIA Will continue its

contractual relationship for the purpose of handling

. foreign

intelligences

the agent, and the preparation of the agent for his

next assignent abroad.S

"(6) In those

cases

there CIA will be handling its

agent in the United States, CIA will service IBI security

or counterintelligence requirements and will provide the

FBI all ajent information bearing on counterintelligence

ot internal security matters, including the scope and

nature of the ageut's access to information and the

identities of the agent's significant contacis, particularly

in the communist-bloc field.

In such cases where CIA

servicing has beéh Inadequate to FBI internal security

interests, the FBI, will have direct access to the agent. (5,

...

2 -

SECRET

---

