# 124-10279-10071

## Page 1

124-10279-10071

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/16/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10279-10071

HQ

CR 109-12-223-837

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, NO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 03/17/1964

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

CC, ALLEGED CUBAN PLAN, ASSA, PRESIDENT, PANAMA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/18/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC LHM

v9.1

NH 50953. DocId: DocId:32301736

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

43.. 2e

USTICE

SEC

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

BX022 2 RIDAL SHOWN

ORSERR ISE

UP -ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New Orleans, Louisiana

March 17, -1964

ALLEGED/

UBAN PLAN TO.

ASSASSINA

PRESIDENT OF

"PANAMA

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELFASE OF SIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOGULENT. GMB 2494

*AS SANTIZED

At 4:55 PM,

March 17; 1964, Orlando Piedra,

formerly connected with Federal Police in Cuba and

presently residing New Orleans, Louisiana, advised

that about one week ago he received information from

a source in Cuba whom he considers reliable that castro

is not satisfled with the way things are going in Panama

and

for that reason plans to have the President of Panama

assassinated to create additional uprisings in that

country. Piedra advised that he furnished the above

information by letter to Colonel Bolivar Ballarino,

Chief of the National Guard of Panama-whom he has known

for years. Piedra declines to identify the source and

has no additional information to report.

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

It is the property of the Federal Bureau of Investigation

and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not.

to be distributed outside your agency.

This will confirm information orallu furnished

Mr. J. J. Kelly, State Department, and!

Central Intelligence Agency on March 17, 1y04, by

A. J. Decker of this Bureauo

This will also confirm data

furnished orally to Colonel Graham E. Schmid, Department

of the Army; Major William Boyd, Department of the

Air Force; and Ur. Don Gorhan,

Department of the Navy,

on March 19, 1964, by G. A. Day of this Bureau.

ROBERTO EXCHIARI

PRESIDENT OF PANAMA

ALL INEORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS ONCLASSIFIED *311,326

DATE 3/5/86

BY SPEBTAGAL

1/1194

Classified by Seemscher

Declassify on• DADF JFK

SECREU

WN 30953 Docld:32301736 Page 2

---

