# 124-10278-10285

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/9/2018

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10278-10285

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-371

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NH

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE : 07/29/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, CRIMINAL ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1963 EDITION

GS& GEN. NEO, NO, 37

UNITED STATES

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

DATE:

7/29/63

FROM ZW SAC, NEW HAVEN (92-282) (P)

SUBJECT:

LA COSA HOSTRA

AK - Ce

SPIBACY

Re: Report of SA JAMES P. FLYNN, 7/1/63, aCt

On July 5, 1963, NE T-1 advised that one of ch

hoodlum

racketeers in the New York City area dp knom

ages not not bla true name.

that FRANyRU

шА, пІскансь ний ро

TARO, Sportedly highly P

Laced. New Havens rocketeers aro ali

der the leadership of "POGI".

Same source indicated that

this criminal association was formerly headed by WILLIE MORETTI,

deceased slain hoodlum, after which "POGI" took over.

The source stated that RALPH "WHITEY

TROPIANO Of New Haven,

and believed to be a member of the MAGLIOCCO "family", is with

a different crowd, the leadership of whic is not known to him.

Informant advised that MIDGE RENAULT (true name SALVATORE

ANNUNZIATO) is in the same outfit with RULLI, but that New York

Is rather disgusted with RENAULT as he is always getting into

trouble. This is true in view of numerous arrests for brutal

assaults, vicious attacks on innocent victims, as recent as this

month.

Source stated, however, that "POGI" has given RENAULT the "OK"

stating that every time be asks RENAULT to do something he

performs.

Reference is made to report of SA JOHN H. BROOKS dated June 1,

1950, entitled ROBINK, New York file 91-860, wherein on page 6

it is

reported that three top hoodlums in the Boston area are

albed with an individual known as POGEY, from New York City, and

"MIKE THE WISE GUY" from Boston.

be top men in the Ital American criminal syndicate operating

in the Bast under the direction of "LITTLE AUGIE" from New York

City. POGEY is described as ALFRED TORRIELLO.

12-6054-371

2- Bureau

2- New York (92-2334)

3-New Haven

(1 - 92-155)

ORT : nac

(7)

2 vuL 30 1363

REC- 6

NI

A hi

NW#: 45839

DocId: 32301451

---

## Page 3

NH 92-282

VRai

Further in the report made by Inspector M. E. GURNEA,'

March 27, 1950, at Boston, entitled ROBINK, page 17, it

is reported in New York letter to Bureau dated July 15,

1947, entitled, "Confidential Informant NYC 169" contains

X ROCCO) who control that area for POGEY are.

e known as

MEROLA and one BUTZY MORRELLIE (PHONETIC) •

Masa

New York is requested to determine identity of "POGI"

possibly identical with POGEY TORRIELLO. Also determine

the "Family" with which this individual is associated.

For attention New York, information regarding "POGI" has

been set forth in report of SA WILLIAM F. GLOSSA, dated

July 29, 1963.

New York should therefore coordinate

investigation

to prevent the duplication of effort in

identifying "POGI".

New Haven racketeers.

2.

NW#: 45839

Docid: 32301451

---

