# 124-10224-10212

## Page 1

124-10224-10212

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10224-10212

HQ

109-430-18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

LEG, HAVANA, CUBA

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/12/1952

'PAGES: 22

SUBJECTS :

MDL, SOCARROS, CARLOS PRIO, ASSOC, COUNTER

REVOLUTION, BATISTA, CUBA, MEETING, JUNTA

REVOLUCIONARIA CONSTITUCIONAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT, OTHER NON-TEXTUAL

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF INS, CIA

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO INS, INC 2 MEMO, ENV, EXHA-K, PHOTOSTAT COPIES, INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

NH 50953

6

DocId: 32298932

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• STAND

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMBNT

Meaned?

by

Classifie

Declassi

TO

FROM :

"Director, FBI

DATE: May 12, 1952

Legal Attache, Havana, Cuba (109-32 ALL INFORMATION CAN AN@ya.

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

SUBJECT:

JENIA" REVOLUCIONARIA CONSTITUCIONAI, WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

FOREIG POLITICAL MATTER

CArLOS

rio

SocArros

SECUZITY ETCETON

Re Havana letters May 6 and May 8 last concerning the above.

The latter letter transmitted a copy of a memorandum which we had furnishe

to the Ambasgador here on the poseitilitios of a counter revolution here.

on the part of elements of the government of ex resident CARLOS PRIO,

headed by former Minister of Education AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO.

Following the delivery of the memorandum to the Ambassador, he

Mission, R.

WILLIAM PITTS, Assistant Air Attache, the Ambassador and the Legal Attache

At this meeting the Ambassador stated that Mr. JOHN BONDS, head of the INS

office here, had reported information confirming the fact that the pilot,.

• EDIARD W. MURPHY, had landed at Santiago, Cuba alone after having taken

off from Nassau with Sanchez Arango and ex-National Police Captain RAUL

RODRIGUEZ SANTOS.

INS had determined that MURPHY's arrival date in Santiago

52-52 and

at he had returned alone to Miami

the following day.

via Camaguey, Cuba.

ViOLETANCARES

There was considerable discussion of

our memorandum during which

the Ambassador indicated that he considered it entirely plausible and

possible that elements of the former PRIO government might stage a counter,

revolution,

they having had plenty of revolutionary experience in the years

preceding the fall of Dicator MACHADO and apart from this they are well

equipped with

Stolen from the Cuban Government during the time PRIO

was in power.

VioLeTA

MANO

u)

At the meeting, Mr. GOMEZ of the CIA advised that in the latter

par

of March, 1952, they had obtained a mail intercept which apparently

contained some cryptic information about a possible revolution.

He said

that he had not considered that this information had any local interest and

that for that reason he had not distributed it locallyalthough he had

sent it into his headquarters.

It appeared rather obvious that the

Ambassador was somewhat astounded and taken aback by COVEZ' statement that

did not

consider that the information had any local interest.

u)

GOMEZ did not disclose the source of his intercept but we

rather cextain that it was furnished to him by the cuban Army SIM (SU)

HU ATTACHOL

GONe subsequently made available a memorandum on 5-952, with

which he attached photographs of the material contained in the intercept

When these photographs are studied in conjunction with the information set

forth in reference letter of 5652 which furnished information reported by

Cuban Army agent MI, it appears that

RECORATOR

pereport ays the details of

Enclosure

stars?

INDEXED

20-53 2

-8

52 jar 29 1952

CDA = JES

NH 50953

D001d:32296932

Page 2

ON AND/OR

THIS DOCUMENT. 6MB

PreT

0 91

---

## Page 3

STANDARE FORM NO, 9A

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

IN FROM :

SUBJECT:

Director, FBI

DATE: May 12, 1952

Legal Attache, Havana, Cuba (109-32)LL INFORMATION ErA 2ира

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CONSTITUCIONAI WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTER

SECURITY WETS

OrAT

CArLOS

Re Havana letters May 6 and May 8 last concerning the above.

The latter letter transmitted a copy of a memorandum which we had furnished

to the Ambassador here on the possibilities of a counter revolution here.

on the part of elements of the government of ex- resident CARLOS PRIO,

headed by former Minister of Education AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO.

AND/OR

Following the delivery of the memorandum to the Ambassador, he

either

5=s

of

Ilssion, R. E. GOMEZ

WILLIAN PITTS, Assistant Air Attache,

the Ambassador and the Legal Attache.

At this meeting the Ambassador stated that Mr. JOHN BONDS, head of the INS

office hare, had reported information confirming the fact that the pilot,

EDWARD W. MURPHY, had landed at Santiago, Cuba alone after having taken

off from Nassau with Sanchez Arango and ex-National Police Captain RAUL

RODRIGUEZ

INS had determined that MURPHY's arrival date in Santiago

had been

52-52 and

at he had returned alone to Niami the following day

via Camaguey, Cuba.

C. T

CARES

There was considerable discussion of

our memorandum during which

the Ambassador indicated that he considered it entirely plausible and

possible that elements of the former PRIO government might stage a counter,

revolution,

they having had plenty

of revolutionary experience in the years

preceding the fall of Dicator MACHADO and apart from this they are well

equipped with funds

stolen from the Cuban Goverment during the time PRIO

was It power.

и).

VIOLETA

At the meeting, Mr. GOMEZ of the CIA advised that in the latter

part of March, 1952, they had obtained a mail intercept which apparently

contained some cryptic information about a possible revolution.

He said

that he had not considered that this information had any local interest and

that for that reason he had not distributed it locally, although he had

sent

it into his headquarters.

It appeared rather obvious that the

Ambassador was somewhat astounded and taken aback by GOMEZ' statement that

he did not

consider that the information had any local interest.

и)

covez did not disclose the source of his intercept but we

Tee

rather certain that it was furnished to him by the Cuban Army SIM.

U)

5115

Refle

GOMEZ subsequently made available a memorandum on 59-52, with

which he attached photographs of the material contained in the intercept.

When these photographs are studied in conjunction with the information set

forth in reference letter of 56-52 which furnished information reported by

Cuban Army agent Ml, it appears that

ENCL

Intercept portrays the detais sel

BET MOEXED

ECORD TEL

- 4430

Enclosure

Let to

CDA = JES

17 50953

-DocId: 32290932 Page

5-20-52

MAY 29.1952

RiC

MENT.

omB

9-80-

apy

---

## Page 4

9.55 AM °52

RECO ESPIONAGE

JUSTICE

RECEIVED

224-10212

AY 17 5.09 PM 3e

FERNAL SEGUN

FBI

ARE: ME HOSTICF

pos

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

14/17/97

RELEASE IN FULL

RULHASE IN PART

D

TOTAL DENIAL

4 20 11 16 AM °57

COP

S. C.

JUSTICE

* LIAISON

---

## Page 5

SECRET

May 12, 1952

Havana, Cuba

Tos

Subject=

Director, FBI

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CONSTITUCIONAL

FOREIGN POLITICAE MATTER

the plan outlined by M-l. A copy of GOMEZ' memorandum, as well as the .

photographs furnished with the memorandum, are being furnished the Bureau

with this letter. No copies of the photographs are being retained in the

Havana office, inasmuch as GOMEZ only made one set available. (SU)

The above information concerning the meeting and GOMEZ' statement

is considered as administrative in nature and is furnished for the Bureau's

confidential information; it is suggested that it not be disseminated

outside the Bureau for obvious reasons.

The only other recent development

1n

this matter is the following:

On the afternoon of 5-8-52, Mr. JOHN BONDS of the INS reported

that he had received information from INS in Miami that SANCHEZ ARANGO was

rumored to be back in Miami; BONDS said that INS was trying to verify this

sihce if it were true, SANCHEZ ARANGO had doubtless-re entered the . S.

Illegally.

On the evening of 5-8-52, Cuban Minister of Defense NICOLAS. PEREZ

HERNANDEZ requested SA CLARK D. ANDERSON of this office to call at the

Ministry as soon as possible. ANDERSON had previously met the Minister

through an office contact and friend, LUIS CASTELLANOS, who has a very

close connection with the Minister®

PEREZ advised that the Cuban Air Force had verified that MURPHY

had landed at a point known as Loma Colorado in the Province of Oriente,

Cuba, where two men, believed to be SANCHEZ ARANGO and RODRIGUEZ SANTOS,

had left the plane. He said that he had subsequently received information

which he considered completely reliable to the effect that SANCHEZ ARANGO

had come into Havana.

He said that they had just received information that

SANCHEZ ARANGO had gone back to Miami and requested that this office

endeavor to verify this fact inasmuch as they desired to continue the search

for SANCHEZ ARANCO if he was still in Cuba.

The Minister was told that

SANCHEZ ARANGO is the subject of an INS inquiry in Miami and that in the

event he is located in Miami, he will be advised.

An extra copy of this letter together with a copy of GOMEZ'

memorandum of 59-52 is attached for forwarding to the Miami office. It

is being left to the discretion of the Bureau as to whether copies of the

photographs enclosed with GOMEZ' memorandum'are furnished to Miami, it.

the hot vereen eaten or dant rented am 4) = evelopa

of the Hotel Vereen, 313-315 North Miami Avenue, Miami.

12 co

SECRET

HH 50953 DooId:32290932 Page J

---

## Page 6

-HERS

RATESE COTTANEO

ONCRESENCO EXCEPT

SHOWS OCHE

17 12, 1952

Batana, Cuba

Gmie 9-30-97

Director, FBI

Lopal Attache, Havana, Cuba (109-32)

JOLTA LBVOLUCLONARLA COASTETUCLONAR

TORRECIL POLITICAL DA TIRE

HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSISICATION AND/OR

CEAFORMATION

Re Invana letters May 6 and way 8 last concerning the above.

The latter letter transmitted a copy of a memorandun which me bed furnished

RELEAS

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

to tho Anbaueador here on the poscibilities of a cunter evolution li

ort the part or elements of the government of ex-sident chaos ee

headed by forner Miniater of Foucation AUПT2Сик8100,

Following the delivery of the memorandun to the Ambassador, he

called a meeting at which were present Nr. T. T. GRAIN, Deputy Older

astone he fo couses attache in chapse or the cia pitice here, pot-

THENY PITTS, Assistant Air Actache]

the Ambassador and the Lopal actache

At thie meeting the Anbascador stated that No. JO BONDS, head of the ENs

office here, had reported infornation confirming the fact that, the pilots

EDITO W. LURPit, had Landed at Santiago, Cuba alone e?ton payton taken

ot iron sansay with Sanchez Arango and ex-National. Police Captain Ti

RODRICULE SANOS. INS had deterined that MURPHY"s arrival date in Santiago

had beon 32-52 and that he ned returned elone to Man? the following day

via Caraguey, Cuba-

There was conslaerable discussion of our menorandug, durine michi

the Ambassador indicated that he considored it entirely plaurible and

possible that elements of the former PRIU government nint stars a counter

revolution, they having had plenty of revolutionary exportence in the years

preceding the fall of Dicatos NCHGDO and apart fron chiy they are wel?"

waD in pOwer.

9/20

At the meting, Vro Goutz of the ClA advised that in tho latter

part of Karch, 1952, they had obtained a patt intercent ten epperenty

contalned sone cryptic Lot amation anote possible povertionede coa

that he had not concidered thatithis information had cov Local interest

that for that reacon he had not distributed it Zocalize f though he had

ea rather obvious the die

piet

he did not consider that the tafor Uld Chid any 1mal interpet

conce dad not coolose o

chree or tun intercept but y

rather certain they at wag

tech chea to nih by the Cuban Arty STu

SANTO 62 2001247 TEAC

00..02 subsequently made available a menopandar on 57-52,

which be attached photographs of the material contained in tha inter

Wen these photographs are stutted in conjuction with the infornatab

forth in reference letter of 5-6-52 which tumiahed inforation rep

Cuban Army agent 1-7

3-I'ag appears, that the

Kotatin

Enclosure

VLASSIFY ON: 25X L

(JFR)

SECRE

NOTRECORDED

1957

---

## Page 7

06027R03

ENRIC TENS YS LATE.

TINA BE OSVE TES

207

Silas his

CORONE TON

sael

98932

---

## Page 8

88

To:

Subject:

Director, FBI

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CONSTITUCIONAL

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTER

May 12, 1952

Havana, Cuba

the plan outlined by Ml.

A copy of GOMEZ' memorandum, as well as the

photographs furnished with the memorandum, are being furnished the Bureau

with this letter. No copies of the photographs are being retained in

the

Havana office, inasmuch as GOMEZ only made one set available.

The above information concerning the meeting and GOMEZ' statement

is considered as administrative in nature and is furnished for the Bureau's

confidential information; it is suggostod that it not be disseminated

outside the Bureau for obvious reasons.

The only other recent development in this matter is the following:

On the afternoon of 5-8-52, Mr. JOHN BONDS of the INS reported

that he had received information fron INS in Miami that SANCHEZ ARANGO was

runored to be back in Miami; BONDS said that INs was trying to verify this.

since if it were true, SANCHEZ ARANGO had doubtless re-entered the l. S.

illegally;

on the evening of 5-8-52, Guben Minister of Defense NICOLAS PEREZ

HERNANDEZ requested SA CLARK D. ANDERSON of this office to call at the

Ministry as soon as possible; ANDERSON had previouoly met the Minister

through an office contact and friend, LUIS CASTELLANOS, who has a very

close connection with

‹ the Minister.

PEREZ

advised that the Cuban Air Force had verified that MURPHY

had landed at a point known as Loma Colorado in the Province of Oriente,

cuba, where

had left the plane:

o men, bet tave ate sad absequenta receive normation.

which he considered completely reliable to the effect that SANCHEZ ARANOO

had come into Havana,

He said that they had just received information that

SANCHEZ ARANGO bad gone back to Miant and requested that this office

endeavor to verify this fact. inasmuch as they desired to continue the search

for SANCHEZ ARANCO if he was still in Cuba.

SANCHEZ ARANGO: is the subject of an INS inquiry in Miami and that in the

event he 15 located in Miami, he will be advised.

An extra copy of this letter togother with a copy of COMEZ'

memorandum of 59-52 1s attached for forwarding to the liams office.

19 being left to the discretion of tr

gau as to whether copies of the

photographs enclosed with GOMEZ' memorandan are furnished to Miami, it

being noted that this material was mailed in Miami on 323-52 in an envelope

of the Hotel Vereen; 313315 North Miami Avenue, Miani.

10953 D001d:32296932

Page 8

---

## Page 9

LATER COCPANED

THERE SHOUD OTHERE

May 12, 195203

Havanay. Cuba

Benelless

9.30.97

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

CIA INFORMATION

RELEASE

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

Directors. FBI

Legal Attache, Havana, Cuba (109-32)

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CONSTITUCIONAL

FORMIEN POLITICAL MATTER

SECURITY INTORMATION - SECRET

92l

Massitis

Acclassib

Re Havana letters May 6 and May 8 last concerning the above.

latter letter transmitted a copy of a memorandom which we had furnished

to the Ambassador here on the possibilities of a counter revolu gon here

on the part of elements of the government of excresident CARLOS PRIe

headed by former Minister of Education AURELIAND SANCHEZ ARANO).

Following the delivery of the memorandum to the Ambassador

called a meeting at which were present Mr. E. T. CRAIN, Deputy Chief

Mission, R. Be GOMEZ, Attache in charge of the ClA oifice here, 001.

WILLIAM PITTS, Assistant Air Attache,

She Ambassador and the Legal Attache.

At this meeting the Ambassador stated that Mr. dOrN BONds, head of the EvS.

office here, had reported information confirming the fact

, that the piloty

EDWARD W.XMURPEY, had landed at Santiago, Cuba alone after having taken

from Nassau with Sanchez Arango and ex-National Police Captain BAUE

RODRIGUEZ SANTOS

INs had determinod that MURPHY's arrival date in Santiago

had been 5m2-52 and

that he had returned alone to Miami the following day

via Canaguey, Cuba.

There was considerable discussion of our memorandum during which

the Ambassador indicated that he considered it entirely plausible and

possible that elements of the former PRIO government might stage a counter

revolution, they having had plenty of revolutionary experience in the years.

preceding the fall of Dicator MACHADO and apart from this they are well

equipped with funde stolen from, the Cuban Govemment during the time PRIO

was in power.

At the meeting, ir. GOMEZ of the CIA advised that in the latter

part of March, 195?, they had obtained a mail intercept which apparently

contained sone cryptic information about a possible revolution.

that he had not considered that this information had any local interest and

that for that reason he had not distributed it Locally, although he nam

Ambassador was somewhat so need haken aback you sta ement:

Ambassador was

he did not consider

intlostid any lecal interest.

BATTVED DA ANIT

COMEZ did not

marchi intercept but ve

rather certain that it was

furnished to him bys the Cuban Army SIM

BABAED SA LEIR DICE LOUCH

GOLEZ subsequently made available a menorandun on 59-52,

which he attached photographs of the naterial contained in, the intergeo

When these photographs are studied in conjunction with the informatrous

forth in reference letter of 56-52 which fumished information reporte

suben Army agent M

3-17-06

it appears that the

Your s40us hiercept portrayg.une

detato of S

Enclosure

LASSIFY ON: 25X

(JFK)

SECRE

RECORDED

195%

50953

DooId: 32298932

Page 9

---

## Page 10

P

CUATY WEAT

CIA HAS

ASORCOON TO

CSOLA:

*CIA NNFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT ThE bARURS

on pg. 2

C

9-30-47

SeO/ASA

STORET

P

3-17-98

JER

say 9, 1952

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. CRAIN

Re: Opposition to BATISIA Government

Reference is made to the conference held in the office of the Ambassador

on 7 May, attended by the Ambassador, yourself, Colonel PITTS, Mr. SPEARS, and

the undersigned. At this meeting a secret memorandum sent by Mr. SPEARS to the

Ambassador, entitled "JUNIA REVOLUCIONARIA CONSTITUCIONAL", was discussed.

In connection with the above, anclosed herewith are photostatic copies of

an envelope (Echibit A) 'and enclosures addressed to "Sta. Violeta CANO,

Empedrado 211g Apto 18, Habana, Cuba"

& postmarked Miami, Florida, 8: 30 Pales

23 March 1952, the envelope bearing return address "Hotel Vereen, 313-315 North

Miami Ave:, Miami, Florida" and a notation under the AIR MAIL sticker,

Rosa."

This envelope and contents were intercepted in the mail. It is possible

that this communication may be pertinent to the contents of Mr. SPEARS'

memorandun.

At the moment, the only information this office, has been able to secure on

the addressee, Violeta CANO, is that her father, Prospero CANO, is a radio

operator employed by Western Union in Habana.

As of possible interest, a study of the enclosed exhibits indicates the

following:

Exhibit B 18 a piece of stationery from the Hotel Vereen, in which were

enclosed Exhibite C

through Ke

Exhibit C

apparently. concerns the location where Gervasio Street meets

Avenida de laceo (also known as the Malecon) .

the small circles on this plan

describe the traffic buttons which divide the westbound traffic from the eastbound

traffic on this wide avenue.

A study of this drawing would lead one to believe

that the "'-a" represent armed men, the little squares marked "1 - 2 - 1 - 2" are

automobiles without drivers which would be used to block traffic. The "x-s"

representing men on foot here total I4, which total when added onto the nurber of

men included in the other exhibits brings the grand total of men to be used in

this operation to 230, which coincides with the figure represented on Exhibit D.

• ALL FEI INCORMATION CONTAINED

ATE 4261943YSOSMACSAT

SECURITY INFORMATI

OFK

SEBRET

ITH

50953 DooId: 32290932 Page 10

---

## Page 11

P

Y

A INSFONMATION

iN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT ThE

DRAWLES ON

5m8 9-30-999-2

CC025T

Fanned fad

C

0

(360/M5R

P

3-17-48)

May 9, 1952

MENORANDUM FOR MR. CRAIN

Re:

Opposition to BATISTA Government

Reference is made to the conference held in the office of the Ambassador

on 7 Way, attended by the Ambassador, yourself, Colonel PITTS, Mr. SPEARS, and

the undersigned. At this meeting a secret memorandum sent by Mr. SPEARS to the

Ambassador, entitled "JUNIA REVOLUCIONARIA CONSTITUCIONAL", was discussed.

In connection with the above, enclosed herewith are photostatic copies of

an envelope (Exhibit A) and enclosures addressed to "Srta. Violeta CANO,

Empedrado 211, Apt. 18, Habana, Cuba", postmarked Miami, Florida, 8:30 P.Mo,

23 March 1952, the envelope bearing retum address "Hotel Vereen, 313 3path

Miami Ave., Miami, Florida" and a notation under the AIR MAIL sticker,

This envelope and contents were intercepted in the mail. It is possible

that this communication may be pertinent to the contents of Mr. SPEARS'

memorandum.

At the moment, the only information this office, has been able to secure on

the addressee, Violeta CANO, is that her father, Prospero CANO, is a radio

operator employed by Western Union in Habana.

As of possible interest, a study of the enclosed exhibits indicates the

following:

Exhibit B is a piece of stationery from the Hotel Vereen, in which were

enclosed Exhibits C through K.

Exhibit C

apparently concerns the location where Gervasio Street meets

Avenida de

Maceo (also known as the Valecon) • The small circles on this plan

describe the traffic buttons which divide the westbound traffic from the eastbound

traffic on this wide avenue. A study of this drawing would lead one to believe

that the "x-s" represent armed men, the little squares marked "1 - 2 - 1 - 2" are

automobiles without drivers which would be used to block traffic.

The "x-s"

representing men on foot here total 14, which total when added onto the number of

men included in the other

exhibits brings the grand total of men to be used in

this operation to 230, which coincides with the figure represented on Exhibit D.

ALL FOI INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE 9/26/94 81Sp8 MACIGAT

UFK)

SECURITY IGKORSATION - SEGRET

HH 50953 DocId: 32298932

Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECURITY INTORMATION - SECRET

Exhibit E apparently pertains to 14 of the 19 police stations and 2

substations

in Habana. Since it does not say which are omitted, there is no way of telling

which of the stations are to be the targets.

As shown on this exhibit, there

would be 10 men used to take each station, and the weapons and ammunition to be

carried are listed thereon.

Exhibit F apparently is a plan to take Cuban Naval Headquarters, and the

figures are self-explanatory. It is interesting to note that there also

appears a notation that 10 navy uniforms are to be used.

Exhibit Q A "peloton" apparently refers to a group of 10 men, 4 armed with.

M-1 rifles, 1 with a machine gun, 5 with pistols and 2 with hand grenades,

which will be used where necessary.

Exhibit H refers to the radio stations RHC, CMQ, Union Radio, and Radio

Cadena Habana (apparently), all located within the city of Habana.

Exhibit Eye The writer is of the opinion that this exhibit (Radio Motorizada)

pertains to the radio car communications center of the police, while Planta

Radio E apparently refers to the electric power plant at Campo Columbia where

SIM headquarters are located.

Exhibit j apparently refers to the electric light plant which supplies most

of the power for the City of Habana, and Exhibit K apparently refers to the

telephone company and to the Ministry of Communications

Addendum:

As far as can be determined, on the basis of the above, Exhibit D

is a summary of all that is necessary, and attention is drawn to the last item,

"I Yate tipo P.I."

, apparently meaning one P.I. boat.

There are certain discrepancies in the arms total as represented on the separate

exhibits,

and the grand total represented on Exhibit D. For example, Exhibit D

shows a total of 35 machine guns to be used, whereas a study of the various

lists adds up to only 25, and Exhibit Dlists a total of 110•38 pistols, whereas

we arrived at

a grand total of 105.

Rudolph E. Gomez,

Ettache.J(5)

SECURITY INORMOTIOM - STORET

cc Commander Ryan

Colonel Mason

Colonel Elmore

Mr. Spears

Attachment:

2 sets

of exhibits

NH 50953

DooId: 32298932 Page 12

---

## Page 13

3 FUD 2020.000 3919

SECURITY INFORMATION - SECRET

Lchibit t apparently pertaina to 14.or the 1y police stations and 2 substations

In Habana.

since it does not say which are onitted, there is no way of tolling

which of the statione are to be the targets,

As shown on this exhibit, there

would be 10 men used to take each station, and the weapons and ammunition to be

carried are listed thereon.

Exhibit E apparently 1a a plan to take Cuban Naval Headquarters, and the

figures are self-explanatory. It is interesting to note that there also

appears a notation that 10 navy uniforms are to be used.

Exhibit G A "peloton" apparently refers to a group of 10 men, 4 armed with

I rifles, I with a nachine gun, s with pistols and a with hand grenades,

which witl be used where necessary.

Exhibit E refero to the radio stations REC, CHIQ, Union Radio, and Radio

Cadena Habana (apparently), all located within the city of habana.

Exhibit Eye The writer le of the opinion that

this exhibit (Radio Motorizada)

pertains to the radio car cormuntcationa center of the police, while Planta

Radio E apparently refers to the electrio power plant at Campo Columbia where™

SIM headquarters are located.

ExhibitI apparently refers to the electric light plant which supplies most

of the power for the City of Habara, and Exhibit K apparently refere to the

telephone company and to the Ministry of Communications

Addendum: Ap far as can be determined, on the basis of the above, Exhibit D

Is a surmary of all that is necessary, and attention

is drawn to the last item,

"I Yate tipo P.T."

, apparently meaning one P.T. boat.

There are certain discrepancies in the arme total as

represented on the separate

exhibits, and the grand total represented on Exhibit D. for example, Exhibit D

shows a total of 35 machine guns to be used, whereas a study of the various

lists adds up to only 25, and Exhibit DIlots a total of 110 •38 pistols, whereas

we arrived at a grand total of 105.

Rudolph Lo

Gomeng

(Attache J(3)

cc. Commander Ryan

Colonel Mason

Colonel Elmore

Mr Spears

Attachment: 2 sets of exhibite

SECURITY INFORMATION - SECRET

50953 DocId: 32298932 Page 13

---

