124020740417 fae

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10207-10417
RECORD_SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-2173-238

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 03/24/1977
PAGES: 3 : :
SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ORIGINAL NE

CLASSIFICATION: Secret CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: — 12/05/1996 : UPDATE DATE:
STATUS _ Redact

RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HW 50953 DocId:32291641 Page 1


vail
Sn Filled, In) lant a

Intelligence Information Cable RouTENE

. WARNING NOTICE IN| p2758L-
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

STATE/INR JCS/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCC SWS NSA ‘TREAS NSC/S SDO NIO CRS PAGE] OF 3 PAGES

WH SITRM
Clossified by jed Reporting Officer. Exempt from Gerjeral Declassification Schedule of E.0. 11652 Exomption
DIRECTORATE OF Category 58 (1), Impossible to Determine Date of Auta~ =Me_Declassification.
OPERATIONS Lan ‘.

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INruaMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END’ OF REPORT.

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET CITE TOFIR DR-315/033b8- 27
ptosis FEDERAL GOVERNMEN? Dist 24 MARCH 14977 i

REPORT CLASS S E C R E T#WARNING NOTICE*SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE |

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED=*NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS=-NOT
J PECEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS==DISSEMINATION AND

k

EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR. A)
|
{ COUNTRY? BARB ADOS/CUBA LAS Me |
Y por: OCTOBER 1976 MARCH 1977 ae

SUBJECT: RESULTS OF THE INVESTIGATION BY THE BARBADOS JUDICIAL

y

COMMISSION UF THE CUBANA AIRLINES CRASH IN EARLY OcTOB AM

CIA HAS "NO-OBJECTHON-T0 :
es DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR. us = 7
i RELEASE OF C\A INFORMAT! a, 4
aca: FERRO ee OSUNTENT, AS SAMIFIZED b ee ie
SOURCE! lye HAS EXTENSIVE CONTACTS
)

IN THE BUSINESS COMMUNITY AND IN POLITICAL CIRCLES
IN BARBADOS, HE IS A FAIRLY RELIABLE SOURCE. HE

OBTAINED THE INFORMATION IN THIS REPORY FROM AN INDIVIDUAL

WITH ACCESS TO MEMBERS OF THE BARBADOS COMMISSION, sn
3 {

$
1, THE BARBADOS COMMISSION OF JUDICAL_JNQUIRY INTO neg ble
: RECS A- 2/73
CUBANA AIRLINES CRASH ON 6 OCTOBERY AB? 6 HA\ MPLETED ITS INVESTIGATION |
AND FOUND NO EVIDENCE OF DIRECT U.S. BX-AQyE MENT’, THE SECURLT Yonsee commen
SECTION OF THE REPORT, PREPARED BY TED WEN T, MEMBER OF HER 12 1977
INQUIRY COMMISSION, DOES NOT IN ANY WAY BLAME OR CONDEMN THE —U sSueeee= sme

SECRET FBTINFORMATION CONTAINED i
‘ HEREIN 19 UNCLASSIFIED
A 5 SAPR2 5 i977 : pateSi3)S4 ay Sumac |.

}

HW 50953 DocId:32291641 Page 2


SR" 3007) MoUETE gyous wn oe

EDITIONS.

he

RECEINED
wneieenee oy, 227584

A hea 7

WARNING. NOTICE a i)
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED PAGE 2 OF 3 PAGES

SECRET : FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO.
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classification)

PERSCNAL OPINION OF JUDGE DENYS WILL I AM Sy, COMMISSION CHAIR

MANs THAT THEU,S, GOVERNMENT SHARES. A MORAL RESPONSIBILITY BECAUSE
OF ITS PAST SUPPORT OF CUBAN EXILES. (FIELU COMMENT? FOR
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONCERNING JUDGE WILLIAMS! VIEWS AND FOR
EARLIER REPORTING ON THE BARBADIAN INQUIRY INTO THE CRASH, SEE
TDFIRDB-315/12425"75, DATED 10 DECEMBER 1976, FROM THE SOURCE

OF THIS REPORT.)

2, JUDGE WILLIAMS HAS COMMENTED THAT HE IS HAVING ;
TROUSLE WITH THE WORDING OF HIS PORTION OF THE REPORT, HOWEVER, IT
IS EXPECTED THAT THE REPORT WILL BE FINISHED SOON ALTHOUGH IT Is
ALREADY TWO WEEKS LATE BEING COMPLETED, THE REPORT WILL BE PRINTED
IN CANADA,

3, ON 4 FEBRUARY» -{FNU} MO RE R 0+ CUBAN OFFICIAL WHO
CLAIMED IN DECEMBER THAT HE WAS IN CHARGE OF MAKING AC CUBAN

DOCUMENTARY OF THE CRASH, Peal THE CUBANS AVE DEFINITE

PROOF THAT ERIC AS — A CYS" BARBADIAN CITI WAS DEEPLY

INVOLVED IN THE SABOTAGE OF THE CUBANA PLANE. MORERO SAID THAT
THE CUBA NS HAD TURNED OVER THE EVIDENCE OF SEALY{s GUILT TO
BARB ADIAN "OF FICTALS AND WERE WAITING TO SEE WHAT ACTION THE

. oo eC SECRET

nn or

au: aoe iz faa yee

HW 50953 DocId:32291641 Page 3

