# 124-90060-10015

## Page 1

124-90060-10015]

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90060-10015

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 163-15064-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO:

PA

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/12/1966

2

LUCIEN CONEIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1B;4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NH 50953

DooId: 32327266

Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED BY.

5668

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

SeD/KSR

MAILED 6

JUL 1 3 1966

COMM-FBI

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohs --

Wick

Casper

Callahan.

Conrad

Felt

Gale

hosen

+ 32)

Sullivan

Tavel.

vail

ratter

Tele. Room -

Moimes

Gandy

9711913at,

Paris (163-1071)

EX-103,

Director, FBI. (163 15064)

-/ SECRET

7/12/66

2 - Orig &

- Yellow

1

- Liaison

1 - Mr. Flemister

LUCIEN CONEIN

ALL INFORMATION CONTAIME

HERGIN (S UACLAGSIFIED

Reurlet 6/2/66.

EYE SHERE SHOWE

OTHERWISE

Bufiles reveal

the name lucien Emile Conein,

born 11/29/19, appeared in a 1963 Central Intelligence

-gency (ClA) communication indicating conein at that time

was a staff employee of the Agency.

Tie files of the

Identification Division contain no arrest record for lucien

OBJECTION

Through Liaison channels, Bureau determined that

Concin is currently &

vert employed of cil, under the cover

o1 a

employee

He is presently in Saigon,

South Vietnam, on an Extremely

sensitive assignment.

CIA

has

requested

that no information be furnished to the Frenche

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCOPT /ORACILETS

5-11-98

regarding his affiliation with CIA or with regard to his

present whereabouts

For your information, Richnond determined (by a

pretext telephone call) from the present occupant of

111] Ingelside Avenue, McLean, Virginia,

who is presently

renting this residence from Conein, that the latter is a

retired Lieutenant Colonel from the U. S. Army and is

presently working and assigned to the U, S. Embassy in Saigon.

No arrest records were located for Conein in either

Credit Bureau, Incorporated, of Washington,

Axineton County or Pairzax County, Virginia SC,, rovedl

Records of the

credit report

dated 9/21/65,

indicating that kucien sonein,

of L111 Ingelside Avenue, McLean, Virginza, was then matted

to Ebjotte and divorced

from Carmen (last

nans, not -shown)

In view of CIA's request, under no Aircutstances

should any information be furnished to the French concerning

subject's present affiliation with CIA or his whereabouts.

You may furnish the French the results of the credit and

criminai checks as noted above. In the french raise thei Kill

2 - St. Louis (Inclosure)

1 - Foreign

Liaison Unit (detached)

fore

(8)U 1966

Caster y-

CONTINUED - OVER

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

Declassi

Amrations

NH 50953 DocId: 32327266 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Letter to Paris

RE :

LUCIEN CONEIN

FPC

SECRET

question of subject's whereabouts, you should inform them

that inquiries to date reveal no information concerning his

present whereabouts.

You may advise tho French that Conein's

military service record is being reviewed for any pertinent

information. dU)

St. Louis should promptly locate and review

Conein's military service record:

According to Army sources

transferred to the U. S.

on 6/30/62 His military serial number was either 01320769

or 01322769. Furnish results in letterhead memorandum.

Enclosed for St. Louis is one copy of relet.

NOTE:

Subject was convicted by a French court in 12/47*

to pay his wife (Monique Veber) a monthly sum of 8,000

francs (about $16) for the support of her and two children

which resulted from the marriage.

Subject has never followed

the orders of the court and is currently the subject of an'

investigation at the request of the Investigative Magistrate

in France.

indicated

Information in the possession of the French

that Conein resided at the Ingelside address and

they requested investigation by the Bureau to verify his

residence and to determine his present situation

with

regard to employment and standard of living. Legat, Paris,

requested Bureau check Bufiles,

Ident files, and requested

Bureau have Richmond check credit and criminal records and

conduct discreet limited investigation to comply with the

request of the French Police.

In view of CIA's request as indicated in this

letter, it is felt that under no circumstances should we

make any mention of our knowledge of subject's whereabouts.

* and was ordered 3:

Ф И)

SETT

= 2

163-1506461

NH 50953 DocId: 32327266

Page 3

---

