124-10212-10238)

JFK Assassination System.
Identification Form

Date:

5/4/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: * FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10212-10238
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 100-339235-374
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG, OT
10: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 06/30/1971
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS :
[Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS; 1A; 1B; 4
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 09/21/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: — INCLTR i

vol

HW 50953 DocId:32293962 Page 1


aa

oC Date: 6/30/71
ee Director, FBI (Bufile : - ) cnONTO \
Y : NOE H
e Attention See eeeneee DIOR; N

RELEASE

ORMATION y

i GIA
From: Legal Attache, Ottawa ( 105-4265 iN wis pce, eyever
itle aracter SLD hes.
‘ : Vfen
U.S.-CHINA FRIENDSHIP ~ : Is_- cH bb u-l- NN
ASSOCIATION Reference « nest ie \)
| :
Exiélosed are the following communications received from th TYS2/ Y
Original and four copies off 2) aN
Remarks: aa
(a! is CIA representative in| | a
a SUSAN WARREN (paragraph 3 of attachment) is believed identical da
to_SUSAN _HEILIGMAN-FRANK, who is subject of Bureau file a
100=339235 , 2
f 6
RITA PHIRPS. (paragraph 5 of attachment) is subject, of
— Bureau: file 105-188955, (xe. hfe
: ED a Skee Seoface_

et E .* CLASS
‘ DECLASSIFY CH: 25X_ GE

Ley

Dissemination = For information of. Bureau only

[] May be made as received

[__] May be made as indicated by stamp on enclosur _ Deeley ons OADF
May not be made without further clearance with J]

Following offices would be interested in receiving copies of enclosures:
San Francisco, New York, London

Do not write in space below

~ Status with this office: : > EO sty
PGE] Ruc Lea.| Biv de) Sain | al a
| Pendi age 29 ;
: G2) Bureau (Enc .3) ; ; ‘ ext

(1 = San Francisco)
e (i = New York)

: (1 = London) : st
{ MLI :cae d m py a

BULL 1971 »
Sree,

sertaie

HW 50953 DocId:32293962 Page 2


Bl maw

TOUTE CORRESPONDANCE DOIT

ETRE AORESSEE'COMME SUIT: |

LE COMMISSAIRE E

GENDARMERIE RQYALE“DU CANA
OTTAWA, CANADA.

Fe
BE ADDRESSED: ho

& THE: COMMISSIONER
UUIROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE
» OTTAWAY, CANADA

|
jae KIA OR2 KIA OR2:
HEADQUARTERS ~ DIRECTION GENERALE i
YOuR No, . P . OTTAWA 5%, CANADA
otae Ne : edloge :
“oun no. DOBN=L6I2. -_
nore No dune 22, 1971
SECRET

Mr, Moss Lee Innes ‘
: United States Embassy serra
cpeereeee OTTAWA,. Ontario :

Dear Sir:

The attachnent is forwarded for the
information of your Agency only. The information
contained therein emanates from a delicate source
and no action should be taken which might jeopardize
this source,

2. A copy of the attachment has been for=
warded to Mr. Robert J. JANTZEN

yours truly,

i : (L.R. Parent)

Assistant Commissioner xt
Director |
Security and Intelligence :

HW 50953 DocId:32293962 Page 3


gx ; Sd 22, 1972
BRYAN

ed thet |
U, Chao Min and LO, “vi Ching, yw China e |
A} officials 14 0 13 MAY 72.. Source edvis sd that |
ina, Saskatehewon for the U.S.A. on
*R Ty and returned to Canada recently. He did not state
where in the U.5.A. he had been. also mentioned he had
been to the U A. for 16 days, si KS previously, when he
iP visited friends and attended a conference. A he did not
indicate where in the U.S.A. he had be
highlisht of the conference v the
ef which concerned Laos, now be

shown in Rew ‘York inal Toronto

i - 2. BRYAN further stated that the U.S China FPriend-
‘ghip Association an San Franciseo show. be est hed by. dune.
According to BRYAN, the idea of estab! ish i UeS. - China Friend=
ship Associations is well supported by Overseas Chinese and
students and even by the "Revolutionsry Union",

BRYAN

on CokSf
evecled

5 also

3° Cn the topic of
stated that the Union is not 1
Francisco). Regarding the o:
4 LABEW is presently residing
t in the Union; however, he refusi another
Hi i residing in San Francisco. BRYAN praised the publications of
| the Union and commented they hsve a high ideal.

e Revolutionary Union
ited to the Bay Area (
vs of the Unio
w York and Susg

t 4 Source also stated thet during the conversation
BRYAN indicated he met with PHIP while in Seattle, It seems
PHIP is of the opinion that the Association should not be located
in the West, but rather it should be established in the East,
the center of U.S. activities; however, as the U.S S&S. is so big
and as the West had cerlier contact with China, BRYAN does not
think itis disadvantageous to have the Association located in

the West.

Se . Source was unable to further identify LABEW or
' PHIP. PHIP may be identical to Rita PHIPPS or Ron PHIPPS of
eee Seattle, Washington, U.S.A. : *

6. Susan ®ARREN is possibly identical to Susan Heiligman :
PRANK of New York subject of previous correspondence, your file
103-2499 by Airtel on 13 NOV 70.

7. : Derek BRYAN was eppointed aivisiting Associate G i
Professor of Political Seicnce at the University of Saskatchewan,
Regina Campus, Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada, from 1 JAN 71 to

30 JUN 71. A relisble source reported that BRYAN was to return

to England on 14 MAY 71. : :

HW 50953 DocId:32293962 Page 4


7 2 a on

ved

8." A number of reliable sources have supplied

the following background information on BRYAN, He has

been prominent in pro-Chinese organizations in Great
Britain since 1952. From 1952 to 1965 he was a member

of the Britain-China Friendship Association, holding the
position of Vice-Chairman, He is a past Secretsry of the’
Society for Anglo-Chinese Understanding (SACU) in’ England,
resigning in 1967. He is presently Cheirman of SACU having
been so since 1969.° He is editor of "China Now, a monthly
publication by SACU, and is connected with the publication:

of "Broadsheet", the organ of the China Policy Study Group:

England. He is a member of the Chinese Language Teachers
Association, c/o The University of Hawaii, since 1966,
BRYAN speaks very good Mandarin and worked in China between
1933 and 1951, x"

Py The foregoing is forwarded for the information

of your Agency only, This information emanates from a delicate

source and no action should be taken which might jeopardize
this source,

HW 50953 DocId:32293962 Page 5

