# 124-10280-10061

## Page 1

124-10280-10061

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10280-10061

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-307738-1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/03/1976

PAGES: 14

SUBJECT:

OBA, ASSOC, CUBAN EXILES ACT, TRA, BKG, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

06/08/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

INC MESREL

NW 50953 DocId: 32302124

Page 1

---

## Page 2

EIA038 EIA821IQA534

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

RR RUFBI

DE RUEAIIA #4830 3880749

NOV 0 3 1

Assoc. Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm.

Dep.-A.D.-Inv

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Sov.

Ext. Affairs

TELETYPE

2N Y

ss SsS

030008 NOV

76

FADERAL GOVERNAENT

CIA/DDO

TO FEDERAL/BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION/ INTELLIGENCE DIVISION

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASGIRICADON AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT EXCEPT

KP

1-27-48 S1D14paratory

22-41 din.

O'd in

& Insp.

Mgmt. -

sec. Inv. -

Trining

Telephone

Rm.

Director Sec'y

BI

SEC R'ET. CITE CIADDO 937064.

CIOL - 0367-76

SECRET -WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED = DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF

INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY

ORIGINATOR

NEC- 13

DE-42

SUBJECT

30.

OF CUBAN

EXILES POSSIBLY INVOGVED IN TERRORISM

308438-

ACTIVITIES

• NOV 9 1976

lo THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION WAS RECEIVED FROM

TOMO IS A USUALLY RELIABLE REPORTER. HE PROVIDED

THE INFORMATION WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE OF HIS SERVICE OR GOVERNMENT.

THE INFORMATION IS VERY SENSITIVE, AND NO ACTION BASED UPON IT SHOQ

BE UNDERTAKEN WITHOUT THE APPROVAL OF THIS AGENCY.

INe

Requent to 18 rulj$2

NH 50953 DocId: 32302124

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NN NNV.V

RR KUFBI

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATICAS SECTION

ĐIA03& EIA821IQA534

NOV 03 19

Assoc. Dir

Dep.-A.D...Adm.

Dop-A D

Asst. Dir

Ext. Agains

DE RUEAIIA

WNY SSSSS

#4830 3080749

TELE TYPECA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICAPON AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT thE

BRACKETS

Ger. In:

Ident,

74 2ul

R 030008

NOV

76

1:01

lnsp.

Toe. AI

Spec. Inv. -

FM CIA/DDO

KP 1-21-40

Trini

Telephone

Rm.

TO FEDERAL

/BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIONAINTELLIGENCE DIVISION

2-21-48

Directol

Sec'y --

BT

SECRET. CITE CIADDO 937064.

(/ regiore

SECRET -WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY

ORIGINATOR

SUBJECT REPORT RECEIVED BY PANAMANTAN NATIONAL GUARD ON ACTIVI

1. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION WAS RECEIVED FROM

NO

IS A USUALLY RELIABLE REPORTER. HE PROVIDED

THE INFORMATION WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE OF HIS SERVICE OR GOVERNMENT.

THE INFORMATION IS VERY SENSITIVE, AND NO ACTION BASED UPON IT SHOULD

BE: UNDERTAKEN WIIOUS THE APPROVAL DE THIS AGENCY FOR YOUR

INFORMATION ON NOVEMBER 4,1976, CIAHO AUTHORIZED

Us

TO CONDUCT DISCREET INVESTIGATION TO IDENTIFY THE

UNSUB DESCRIBED IN PARAGRAPH TWO). X

ALL NFORMATION CONTAINED

HERS

DATE 4/3/05 5/50

JFK)

7TH 50953 DOCTA: 32302124

Page 3

---

