# 124-10259-10221

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/9/2018

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10259-10221

RECORD SERIES: NO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 89-69-1988

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NO

TO : HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/14/1967

3

SEE FBI 62-109060-5061

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

---

## Page 2

AIRTEE

4/14/67

PLAIN TEXT

AIRMAIL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRICTOR, FBI (62-100060)

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (89-69)

ASSASSENATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

DALLAS, TEKAS, 11/22/63

MISCELLANEOUS - INFO CONCERNING

CO: DALLAS

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IC UNCLASSIELED

DATE /12 0 2803 de

Forner NO 1378-C requested that a Special Agent

of this office contact him at Orleans Parish Prison where

the informant is presently confined following conviction

for simple burglary.

It is to be noted that thie former

informant has furnished both reliable and unreliable inforna-

tion in the past.

He was contacted on 4/13/67 and advised

that several weeks ago he talked with BUNDY, who is a fellow

prisoner and is the same person who testified that he saw

CLAY LO SEA!

pass money to someone on the lakefront.

indiented that he had been offered a deal by District

Attorney JIM GARRISON if he would testify to a story about

SHAW. According to this source, this conversation allegedly

took place several weeks ago in parish prison prior to the

time BUNDY testifled. At that time, BUNDY was undecided

what course of action he would pursue, but told the sourge

and others that he would do anything to get out ot his

sentence.

BUNDY indicated in so many words without coming

out and stating directly that his testimony was not true

and a story was given to him to tell.

- Bureau

- Dallas (89-43)

2 - New Orleans

ECH: Jab

(7)

3

89-43 - 6511

SEASCHED..

JNDEXEO..

SEMIALIZED.

ArR 1 7 1967

FBI - DALLAS:

NW 54462 DocId: 32179674 Page 2

---

## Page 3

AIRTEL

4/14/07

PLAIN TEXT

AIRMAIL

TO:

1204:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOB, FBI (63-108060)

SAG, NEU ORLEANS (80-69)

ASSASSINATION QW PRESIDENT

JOAN FITUGERALD RAMIZDY

DALLAS, TEXAS, 11/22/63

BISCELLANEOUS - INFO

CONCERNING

00:

DALLAS

ALL INFORMATICN CONTAINED

IEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEI

AIT: 6/2/43 BY 9803 1d2/gil

K≤:JFK

Former NO 137%-C requested that & Special Agent

of this office contact bin at Orleans Parish Prison there

the informant is prosontly confined follouing conviction

for simple burglary.

xt 1a to be noted that this formor

informant has furnished both roliable and unraliable informa-

tion in the past.

He was contaeted on 4/13/67 and advised

several wecks ago he talked uith auNtY, the to a fellow

prisoner and

is the sue person the tostified that he sau

CLAY HI. SHAW

pass nosey to sonoone on the lakefront.

indicated that ho had been offered a deal by District

Attorney JIM GARRISON 11 he vould testify to a story about

SKAD.

According to this source, this conversation allagodly

took

place several vecks ago in parish prison prior to the

tino unhY tontifiod. At that time, soval was undosidod

that course of sotion he vould pure, but told the sarce

and others that he would do anything to

out of bia

sentence.

suity indicated in so many vorde

without contug

out and stating directly that his testinony

DOG- NOt CrUe

and a stosy was given to hin to tell.

- Bureau

Dallas

(89-43)

- New Orleans

ECG: Jab

(7)

89-43-6511

SEARCHED...

SERiALIZED...

APR 1 · 1967

FBI - DALLAS

NW 54462

DocId: 32179674

Page 3

---

