# 124-10208-10438

## Page 1

124-10208-10438

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10208-10438

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-1396-17

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

LARSON, ROLF L.

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/19/1955

7

EB, APPREHENDED, MX IMMIGRATION AUTHORITIES,

CHARGES, ILLEGAL ENTRY, BOND VIOLATION, FRAUD,

ESCAPE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32292162

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIONIR 9

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT BUREAU

SECRET

REPORT MADE AT

MEXICO, D. F.

DATE WHEN

1/290755

PERIOD FOR WHICH MADI

11/27,20,30

(54;1/11/55

TITLE

REPORT MADE BY

ROLF L LARSON

CHARACTER OF CASE

REGISTRATION ACT

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

71030

EDWARD BROWDER, JR., with aliases

10-95

Classieg

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

Declassify on: DADA

(SEK)

HEREIN IS UNGLASSES DO

DATELE 22

subject was rearrested on November 20, 1954, by Mexican In-

migration

authorities and

is being held for possible depor-

tation on the basis of his illegal entry and presence in

Mexico.

BROWDER claims to have participated in the recent.

Guatemalan revolution

• the side of Colonel CASTILLO ARMAS

and to have been

involved in the organization of a revolu-

tion against the

government of Costa Rican President

FIGUERES FERRER.

APFROPRIATR ACON

CIA NOIRATIO

WIGS SANITIZED

AND FINED OFFIOSS

ADVICED BY ROSEING

SZIP(S) O7,

8/18/97

DATE

-P-

ficatio

Cod/ass

lec-meanice

RDC -ac

6/3/55

DO MINE

GmA

AGENCY CLA State

IRAB

REQ. REC'D

DATE FORW.

2-2-55

HOW FORW

BY RDC/ y

THIS

COPIES DESTROYED

R207 AUG 83,1961

_copies made

for review at FBIH& by

NSCA Reguest i 1el28

ALL INFORMATION CONTAILED

HEREIN IS UNQLASSIFIED EXCERT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

136 PmA.

DECIASSIFIED BY

MAY f 1 1977

CLASSISED BY 5668510/GCL.

TURY ON: 25X 09

JECT 712191

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

17

7 - Bureau 2=1396)

Americantembassy.

• CIA

31 3060.2

темо -метей пулом

BECORDED - 76.

INDEXED - 76

EN 121.

(circulation)

1. - Mexico City (97-12)

FEB =3 19557-1

NEHi

PROCH LOANED BI-THIS REPORT IS LOANED TO YOU BY THE FBI, AND NEITHER IT NOR ITS CONTENTS ARE TO BE DISTRIBUTED OUTSIDE, THE -AGENCY

V. 3. COVEANHENT PAINTING ONCE 16 80306 3

NH 50953

DocId: 32292162 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TAL

United States nepa

finent of Justice

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Hederal Bureau of Inuestigation

DECLASS CATON AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENTAS SANITIZED

amB 2/12/97

January 19, 1955

12/5797

CLASSIRED BY S6

DECLASSIFY ON: 25

SECRET

1-102

Classified by

Declassity ov

CAL

Re:

EDWARD

BROWDER, JR., with aliases

ALL INFONMATION CONTAINED

I.

BASIS FOR INVESTIGATION

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

This investigation is predicated on information re-

ceived from I-1, of known reliability, to the effect that sub-

ject EDWARD BROWDER, IR., had been arrested by agents of the

Mexican Ministry Of

Government (Immigration) on November 20,

1954. It was stated that the arrest had taken place in Mexico

City at calle Alvaro bregon #A

that address being a small

boarding house in which Subject had been residing for several

days as an alleged student of Mexico City College.

II. STATUS OF SUBJECT IN MEXICO

T-1 advised that Subject was being held by Mexican

Immigration authorities for illegal entry to and residence in

Mexico since he claimed

to have left Mexico subsequent to his.

earlier escape from the Department of

Immigration Lockup on

June 10, 1954. It was also mentioned by I-l that charges could

conceivably be placed against the subject for violation of bond

in connection with a previous arrest in Mexico on a

charge of

"fraud" and also for escape.

It was the opinion of I-t, how

that the Mexican Immigration Department might prefer to

deport subject rather than press criminal charges against him

as a result of which he would probably have to serve a

sentence in the penitentiary of the Federal District.

prison

It was advised by I-2, of known reliability, that Sub-

ject was endeavoring to obtain funds from his acquaintance and

alleged co-revolutionary, ROSENDKARGUELLO, JR., with which to

finance his own "voluntary departure" from Mexico in order to

avoid formal deportation proceedings which might render his pos-

sible return to Mexico more difficult.

Subject stated to T-2

that he preferred not to be deported to the United States but

that he hoped he might be sent to Guatemala where he claimed

to have "friends."

2-396-11

I-1 advised that as of January 12, 1955;

subject was

still detained by Immigration authorities and that in view of

his failure to provide funds for a "voluntary departure,

probably would be deported by the Mexican Government in the

not too distant future.

-1-9

SECRETIO

HH 50953 DooId: 32292162 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET.

IlI.

ACTIVITIES OF SUBJECT

The following narrative of Subjoct's recent activities

in Mexico and Central America

greatly and that he appears to be either a pathological liar or

the pach ose star or

to be slightly mentally deranged.

BROWDER claimed that following his escape in Mexico

in June, 1954, he had made his way to Costa Rica and Guatemala

CASTILLO ARMAS still oes him a substantial sum of money which

he claimed to be unable to pay immediately because of the com-

plete depletion of the Guatemalan Treasury by the deposed ARBENZ

Government

BROWDER also stated very confidentially that he had

been contacted by leaders of a group which was organizing a revo-

lutionary attempt against the regime of Costa Rican President

JOSE FIGURES FERRER and that he had been requested to obtain

remove fusement and to do starf work in connection with tat

In connection with the foregoing, I-3, of unknown

reLlabILity, but who has furnished accurate information in the

past,

and who is known to be closely associated with Costa Rican

revolutionary leaders.

advised. categorically that the group had

no confidence whatsoever in BROWDER and that under no circum-

stances

would they entrust him with funds or responsibility of

any kind in connection with a possible revolutionary attempt

against FIGUERES.

I-1 advised that at the time of his arrest, BROWDER

had in his possession copies of several letters from one CHUCK

TAYLOR, 124 1/2 S. Park DriVe

TAYLOR relating to the possible sale of a "C'-47 airplane."

In

this connection, BROWDER stated TAYLOR is an airlines pilot whom

he had known when they were both flying for the Royal Airforce

during World War II and that he had intended to effect the sale

a C-47 transport airplane which he claimed to "have access

to" in Nicaragua.

2-1396-17

Also in Subject's possession at the time of his ap-

prehension was

a copy of a telegram from

"Vision" magazine in

New York offering him a contract to write articles for that

- 2 =

SECRETI

508-10438

NH 50953 DocId: 32292162 Page 1

---

## Page 5

SECRET

magazine at a very nominal sum. BROWDER explained that he had

hoped to write some articles concerning his

"revolutionary ac-

tivities and the Costa Rican Revolution" in order to earn some

money but that the sum offered by the magazine had been so

meager that he had not considered it worth while..

At the time of his arrest,.

- ROWDER was also in posses-

sion of a telegram from HENRIUCE dated November 19, 1954, and

with respect therend "Ife" nagazines that he hould furnish com-

stated he had proposed to the owner-

editor of "Time"

plete facilities to a reporter and photographer from those maga-

zines to cover

the expected Costa Rican revolution at close range.

He stated that he had been unable to complete arrangements with

LUCE

because of his arrest.

It was advised by I'-l that at the time of his detention

the subject had no clothes or personal effects whatsoever, that

he was sleeping on the couch in the boardinghouse because

of his

inability to pay for a room and that he was absolutely destitute.

T-I expressed the opinion that all of the foregoing "business

ventures"

as described by BROWDER were merely desperate attempts

by him to obtain advances or downpayments on proffered services

or material even though the possibility of his delivering in con-

nection with any of them was completely negligible.

BROWDER stated that at the time of his arrest he had

been in Mexico City for more than two months and that he had

resided at Calle Asturias #46, Altos, Colonia Alamos, and later

at Calle Tehuantepec #200A, Colonia Roma, prior to moving to :

the Alvaro Obregon address.

T-I stated Subject's former landlady had appeared at

Immigration headquarters in an effort to collect rent and board

which she claimed was due her for Subject's residence at Calle

Tehuantepec #200A.

2139617

SECRET

SOR TAN38

HH 50953 DooId: 32292162 Page J

---

## Page 6

SECRET

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

A copy of this report has, been disseminated on a cir-

culation basis to the Embassy and CIA, Mexico, Do FoC

As the Bureau was advised by

airgram dated December 2,

19542)

Subject was arrested by Mexican authorities on

the basis

of information furnished them by this office concerning his

whereabouts.

ace ero to can a record ovine receipt e inie of Cu

data relating to subject's letter to HaNkY BaLUCE, une ful

text of which was subsequently furnished this office by the

Bureau.

NO LOCALiTy

Mexican authorities were advised of subject's where-

abouts alter clA Kepresentative

he perceived no objection to that procedure as long as the

-original source of

the address was never divulged to either

Mexican authorities or the subject It is pointed out in this

connection that subject's financial

Sifficulties with his

several landladies could easily have resulted in his denuncia-

tion to Immigration authorities and there is no reason to be-

lieve that he has any idea of the manner in which he was located

by Mexican authorities.

SOURCES:

I-1 is the Chief of the Investigative Service

of the Mexican Ministry of Government,

Mr. DEMETRIO FLORES FAGOAGA.

T-2 iS SA ROLE L. LARSON, who interviewed Subject

in the presence of Mexican Immigration

authorities.

'-3 IS MANUEL E. CABALLERO, confidential

source

and costa Rican revolutionary.

LEAD:

THE MEXICO CITY OFFICE

Ato Mexico, Do Fo

21396-17

Will follow and report action of the Mexican Govern-

ment in connection with deportation of Subject.

- 4-

50%

SECRET R

NH 50953

DocId: 32292162 Page 6

---

## Page 7

738012

REFERENCE:

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE (cont'd)

SECRETI

Mexico City airgram dated December 2, 195401(0)

- 5 -

SEGRET

2139617

S08 1738

NH 50953

DocId: 32292162 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

BONBAO

REPORT MADE AT

MAXICO,

Do Fo

DATE WHEN

MADE

1/39/55

PERIOD FOR WHICH MADE

Gu, 30

/S::2/11/95

TITLE

REPORT MADE BY

ROLL DA LARSOU

CHARACTER OF CASE

COMATO BR0%

Mo, with 01

RAGESMATOS NOT

t10-95

Claseified by

SPEmAC/VA

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

Declassify on: DADR (JFK)

Subjock was rearrested on lovember

* 20

1954, by Noslown Tr

migration authoritios ond da

tation on

tho basis of

being

bela for possible

deport

2oc01

entry and prozoace 12

BROWDER alains to

participated in tho

macobt

Castonaian revolutlor on the

i 21d0

Colonel CAPTILO

and to havo been lavolved in

argentration of a

bion agonst tho

governacat of c08c0

: Frosident

EXODENSE

PIERRER®

CONCAKE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE,

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

PECIAL AGENT

N CHARG

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

but cau

(0202100n

396)

Embassy

(aizolation)

i → Moz100

01 try

(97-12)

SECRET

OrA (S)

PROWERTY OF FEI-HIS REGAT IS LARED TO YOU BY THE SEE, AND NEITHER I NOR IS CONTENTS ARE TO BE DISTMEUTED OUTSIDE THE AGENCY

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 16-59355-3

NH 50953

DocId: 32292162 Page 8

---

