124-10365-10020)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10365-10020
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 65-68530-449
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: WMFO
TO: HQ
TITLE: ~
a
DATE: 09/20/1968
“PAGES: 268
SUBJECTS :
NOSENKO BONA FIDES
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
| RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
| DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/19/1998 oa
i OPENING CRITERIA: — APPROVAL OF CIA 7

COMMENTS ;

MEMO, INC MEMO, ANALYSIS

!
1 vol
| HW 50953 Docla:32318825

Page 1


HOE ROE AUR ae
SSkerumtarern wine aiisiia or fen
AV UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT Cif HAS 8A 1 bas whee >
DECLASSIFICATION ANO/OR
S i Me emorandum RELEASE OF CIA INFURMATION 7-48
\ IN THIS DOCUMENT.J7™ >?
DATE: rattle H
y\

‘ (DPRECTOR, FBI kcos-60530) 4) $f i
L" u Sed rae :
si ue, wo ase so A ad RAL
: oa E

: : Y REASON F.

Ae Frome) 44) FCIM, Il, ‘

Po - R

‘Re Bureau letter 2/29/68 captioned "SAMMY" which

A err copy of CIA letter dated 2/19/68. The CIA letter
had furnished to the Bureau copies of a 435 page Top Secret

paper entitled The Examination of the Bona Fides of a KGB 5
Defector." A copy of this paper was also furnished to WFO. Rw

Enclosed are six copies of a paper dated 9/20/68
prepared by Agents of WFO which compares the contents and
conclusions of the CIA paper with information obtained duri.

the current (1967-68) interrogations of SAMMY. (An extra cop C
: of this letter and of the WFO paper are enclosed for the
\S Bureau in the event the Bureau desires to furnish a copy of
| Seach to New York.) XW)

The WFO paper is classified "Top Secret" because‘ it ~
contains excerpts of material from CIA so classified. WRU)

It is noted that a brief chronology of events is set
‘forth in the preface to the WFO paper. It is indicated therei
that SAMMY is-considered by CIA as a part of a large scale KGB

deceptive (miei KWy REC. 18 6s. g g53 o- 4%

In addition teetiose comments, it is noted that a

paper prepared in sana 1964, by CIA as an agenda for a
a Dd proposed CIA-FBI conference, concluded that. SAMMY was dispatched
= by KGB in March, 1962, as one part of a broad provocation effort
: & conceived as early as 1959 and set in motion in the latter part

of 1961. It was stated, "We believe that the major figures in
this provocation include at least three defectors, and at one
time or another more than eight Soviet officials in-place as 5
AG

< aOR

oO
a
a

Ce reh cml GLE?
G- Bureau |(Enc. Bag pcb eh ne LER perme

a Ae

| HI 1 - WFO * a

0-108

‘NW 50953 Docla:32318825 Page 2


| geome
ert
| BREE ae ;

= Ny
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT Ci& HAS NO ahead 7

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
Memora ndum RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.J7 | bf a

DYRECTOR, FBI kos. casa S$ Date: “926768
iF, WovassiFIED AND”
fn WFO [how sun ROE BY ids! -pPloae. als ae
| v REASON FO OO NSE an ki,
| 2) ceicade toy Y ov
"NORMAN D iv
QE R 4) DECLASSIFICATIC Ae 4” ie i

iN Re Bureau letter 2/29/68 captioned "SAMMY" which

NC transmitted copy of CIA letter dated 2/19/68. The CIA letter
had furnished to the Bureau copies of a 435 page Top Secret
paper entitled ''The Examination of the Bona Fides of a KGB 8

Defector.'' A copy of this paper was also furnished to WFO. Rw

Enclosed are six copies of a paper dated 9/20/68
prepared by Agents of WFO which compares the contents and
conclusions of the CIA paper with information obtained duri
the current (1967-68) interrogations of SAMMY. (An extra copy <
of this letter and of the WFO paper are enclosed for the

\S Bureau in the event the Bureau desires to furnish a copy of
| ®teach to New York.) XW)

09-7057

Nontacéfey Vins) MAE

The WFO paper is classified "Top Secret" because it ~
_ contains excerpts of material from CIA so classified. M uy

It is noted that a brief chronology of events is set
ee in the preface to the WFO paper. It is indicated therei

{ . “S that SAMMY is ation. by CIA as a part of a large scale KGB

S i — ttn Ky a ba. y £53 - 4 9

In addition tae ose comments, it is 53 that. a
.. paper prepared in December, 1964, by CIA as an agenda for a
proposed CIA-FBI conference, coneluded that. SAMMY was dispatched
. ° by KGB in March, 1962, as one part of a broad provocation effort... :
R conceived as early as 1959 and set in motion in the latter part °°\*
’ of 1961, It was stated, "We believe that the major figures ‘in
this provocation include at least three defectors, and at one
time or another more than eight Soviet officials in-j
e émerican Intelligence Service (AIS) agents
: ce ree cel GLE FD
~\@)- Bureau |(Enc. an fradacethens me fo B§ diner
NV - wFo | & Fes ypc

jassities

<

Batam

i Bian

| HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 3


Cc.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICK

FEDERAL BUREAU OF ENVESTIGATION

So
Her Tot
ae K sip

a

9-36-99
Sto] Kh

(IFK)

i : September 20, 1968

WH

CLASSIFIED Al
EXTENDED

: : ADVISED i
Fer AMR “SECRET aa
DATE 7 SLIP ;
| DECLASSIFICATION. eel :
! - . : See ed from automatic
: 7 ~ downgrading and
|

“ decYassification

| NW 50953 Doclda:32318825, Page 4


5a SECRET
III. DETAILS - COMPARISON OF PAPER AND CURRENT INTERVIEWS, .
A. Nosenko's Naval RU Servicessscscscsccseccsecsceees

B. Nosenko's Entry into KGB... ..ccsececscceccoccucece

1. Date of Entry... . ccc ccseeeeeee
t 2. Role of General Kobulov......

3. Komsomol and CP Membership.....sceseeses

4. Processing for Entry - KGB Building |Pass......

5. Designation of Directorates.....icsecesevevece

6. Location of Chief Directorate of Militia......

C., Nosenko's Assignment to lst Section,
lst Department, March, 1953 - June, 1955....3.....

1... Nosenko Sought. to Avoid DiscusSion...coveesces
i 2. Assignment against Correspondents......0...045
; 3. Assignment against Army Attache Personnel.....
4. Agents "Volodina" and aS. Ocoee eee ececcene

7.
8. Expulsion of
9. Coen e eee e neers eneeesces
10, Edward Ellis Smith........ tcc e eee ee serene
LL, NAndrey!. .... cca c cece eee eeteeeee seers esos ieete!
12, Service in lst Section,

March, 1953 - June, 1955 ee

D. . Nosenko's Assignment to 7th Department, ° 1955-59...

Vladimir Muromtsev........ tate
Nataliya Shulgina...... ee ee eeecvecees
Tamara Kungarova.....csccccccccsscsecevetecces
Yevgenia Danko.......ccsccciscecccecccvcvcencs
Ay nd Yefremov.....csecsccccsscece

not a Counterintelligence officer. eee
1956-59 cases among Nosenko's Notes.........0.
American Intelligence Use of Tourists........-

i Le
i if ake SECRET

WANAUEWNHE

i
~~ O
oe

| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 5


E.

CO —

: yp secner
Nosenko's Assignment to lst Section,
1st Department, January, 1960 - January, 1962..... 93

lL. Nosenko's Position as Deputy Chief of Section. 95
2. Kovshuk's Acquaintance with Americans....., 2 104
3. Goli i

6. gyceessllB
7 BT li20
8. veeeeeed23
9. ie S127
10, ADLGL AN. coc cee cc cece cee cccceccscecesev el 28
* 11. KGB File on U. Ss. Embassy..csccceoses eoel31

12, Audio Operations Against U. Ss. Embassy.
13, Cryptologic Attack Against U. S. Embassy......141

14, .Nosenko's Knowledge of CIA Personnel..........145
16, Nosenko's Travel to Cuba........ . .

17. Nosenko's Travel: to Bulgaria...
18, Transfer to 7th Department. feb ee neces «+0150

19. Nosenko's Knowledge oun ae ae
=) 7" Lot
Nosenko's Assignment to 7th Departiient ,

January, 1962 - January, 1964......cec.cceeceesee0153

Nosenko's Substitute as Chief ee neneseseceeeel SS

1.

2, Nosenko's | a Te SeSSSSRSTOTET
3. Volkov. and POeErrrrrererees +.
4. Marina Rytova.. .

5.

6

7

Serres 61)

oe eee teens «000156
(IIE 37
icers in Soviet Delegation, Geneva.....159

8. Boris dy - V.L, Artemev.....e.ccceeees161 5

. Peer veerecerceceeesewes

13. Nosenko's Temporary Duty Document..
14, Nosenko's Notes........ccccecsseeees
15. Recall Tel@gtaiis cc. vassetiieeiee tons
16, KGB Knowledge of American Intelligence
Tourist Operations. .......cccccecccccccccecee IB1

a 7 SECRET

i

| aw 50953 Doclda:32318825 Page 6

9 : :
10, Pavel Fedorovich Shakhov .
ll. is).. Meare sie fi

12, Lee Harvey Uswald......sccccseceee +170



¢ : ® aS

G. Miscellaneous Criticisms..........sccecseececoseoe 184
v7

1, Nosenko's Association with Gribanov. Seveee oe 0 184

2. Nosenko's Komsomol and CP Status......
& 3. Nosenko’s Knowledge of KGB Forms.......0+0.+..189
4. Nosenko's Knowledge of KGB Files and
j Checking Procedures.....cseceeccses ococeesavo el Dl
é 5. Nosenko's Sourcing of Information oe
i 6. Nosenko's KGB Ranks........eeecceeeeees
7. KGB Officers Reportedly Known to Wosenko.
8. KGB Dining Rooms............ eseceeeee e200

a 9. KGB Telephone Directories...

H: Cases Not Directly Related to Claimed
Positions in KGB............ ccc w ees stereos ecsasee 203

WON AUWE WHE

pe ee eee eee eee eer eee eran Sesgseuee ane

15. Reece nere SF
i, 16. aseeeees +213
4 7. eeciesiee

25.

Mer SECRET
iv

© ¢

hows

| HW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 7


i a :
‘ } i
C c
: i
t P SECRET ;
% # ‘ 5
y :
| IV. NEW CASES AND NEW OR CONFIRMATORY INFORMATION.........219 ‘
A. New Cases..... Arr ee rn ener ry a) i
§ 7
| 4 1. [ je i
2. Ks Sete eae se +223 :
3. cae . — i
4: BIN Gta dear ‘
f 5. Unknown Subject; American Owner :
¢ cece ner ecu esterases 220 i
i 6. Ptielt Melee acne seistiduen9
t
f
: B. ‘ Significant Data on Cases Previously Reported.....230 >
fy : eas
i 1, John Discoe Smith (Zhari)......cceeseeuseeee 2230
5 2... The Brussels Case ede veer certeecersewcceseecdseeaa ;
: 3. Tatiana Fiaksel Sherich, Daniel Sherich.......234 @
4 Cc. Interesting New Dates its tar erie icciia| (lidoag
i 1. Evgenty. Petrovich Granovsky...e. ese. eeece ene e 0236
4 2. Visit of High Ranking Officers.... . nny 274 ie
: 3.. Boris Aleksandrovich Komarov..... 238 ir
} 4. Nikolai Skvortsov........0sseeceee- 239 :
: :
\ D. Significant Confirmatory Information.......¢..00++239
I ° trukov and Uryvayev..cscocccccsceencs +2239 :
i : o 00 240 ;
i . ween 242 ee
| ee ccecceecceecee es e243 he
|
i

1. Ss

2 Bgeseees

3 soeeeees
4. Trip of Nosenko's Mother.

5 ie

6

7

Bp vegecsccccteseases e243 3
ie lnokov gecoseeerecece we cccccscecese ce lhd
8. Consistency in Identifications and :

Viadimir Dmitryevich.
Information........5..-

eee cere ceeercc esses e248

V. RESULTS OF POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION

ele eiew dsisivesine sia sees2o0

Rae a SECRET

renga ner non cay thane AERO SE
Nn Seg eee

; MW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 8


i
{
i
:

HW 50953° DocId:32318825° Page 9

a

aa

ie SECRET

I, PREFACE
A. Purpose of Paper
This paper has been prepared to compare the results
of the 1967-68 interrogations of YURI NOSENKO with a CIA
paper dated February, 1968, entitled "The Examination of

the Bona Fides of a KGB Defector."" This CIA paper was based

on previous interrogations of NOSENKO and concluded that

NOSENKO is not a bona fide defector ff) (4)

According to the paper, in arriving at this
conclusion the lengthy interrogations of NOSENKO, analysis
of KGB operations which he related and comparison of his.
assertions with collateral information from ether sources
were considered, Ku)

B. Background

For convenience in assessing these papers, the

following chronology of events is set forth: PRY UW) >
NOSENKO first made contact with CIA in Geneva in

June, 1962. After several meetings he returned to Russia

and was not again in contact with CIA until his return to @)
Geneva in January, 1964.. On his return to Geneva he ee
GROUP
Exe ed from automatic
do ading and he SECRET

deplaseification



4
LY

Me SECRET

Significant inaccuracies were detected in the CIA

- )
paper regarding. eo ABIDIAN cases.
S
Contrary to statements in the paper, [furs not. inter-

viewed about. homosexual activities before he left Moscow;

cfs have contact with a girl at American House posing

as a West German journalist; the Soviet. maid TATYANA FEDOROVICH

did have access to ABIDIAN's living quarters within six months

after his arrival in Moscow, fe

COMMENT : A number of previous CIA ‘conclusions
regarding this period were based on deficient =
interrogations of NOSENKO and inadequate
collateral inquiries. These conclusions have
been invalidated by current interrogation and
collateral inquiried and there is no substan-
tial basis for doubting NOSENKO's baste claims
regarding this period. SAC)

1962-64 Fertod] ws { :

i At is concluded in the CIA paper. that. NOSENKO's

tte ei ern emer nye atin ast, rome, ceararancae ray mimetin Mens tlc tone Tyme mat

claims of being Chief of the American-British oe)

= 12 i
: \ SECRET

| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 10



: SECRET

is alleged that NOSENKO did not indicate the sources from
which he obtained the information regarding the cases. 4)

During current interrogation NOSENKO provided sources
or logical explanation for his knowledge in sixteen of the
nineteen cases referred to above. He also provided adequate
clarification regarding three of the other five ¢ases which
ee subjects of CIA criticism. In addition a current review
of his notes by NOSENKO provided the translation "ECTOR",

&) :
instead. of "ACTOR" or [i Revtousy obtained, as the

name of an agent. Collateral investigation has developed

a logical. suspect. by this name. (Logical suspects named %
S

“ACTOR" or pf not previously identified.) #)

COMMENT : Previous interrogations of NOSENKO in

which information was not obtained regarding

the sources for these cases were obviously
e :

inadequate. ‘Current interrogations have

provided significant clarifyi ng information (Bw

15

_ ( i SECRET

1 pare TG STA

ere NYTer wenn

ane GaES/HGtens def pegoi ft ecetssdasansosssieonard fqpass Stenaiapaasbdgasaitnang ts pass?saasaasadfouqlssisepaseeasssssfeA@UsRuaay ‘0505

{HW 50953 DoclId:32318825 Page 11


: t Hi
C Q iL
Ae We 4

7 SECRET

The current interrogations of NOSENKO have developed

I. New Cases and New Information

Len aueeeeOoeeoriae

six new cases involving nine people which were previously not
uncovered during his interrogations. Collateral investigation
has identified six of these persons and of sd)
has been interviewed and admitted the allegations. This case

is considered significant corroboration of NOSENKO. as

, Additional significant data was developed on three

LRAT Na et PS ill Te cS

cases previously mentioned by NOSENKO. Data in one case (the

Brussels case) may assist in the identification of a KGB agent

who supplied NATO codes. ALY

Considerable interesting, new and confirmatory data

was obtained during the current interrogations. Twelve examples

are cited u)

COMMENT ; The new cases, mew information and.

confirmatory data obtained in the current inter-
rogations and collateral inquiries also clearly
establish that the previous interrogations were 2 3
deficient and collateral inquiries inadequate.

. Failure to acknowledge significance of NOSENKO's
personnel identifications and organizational data

denotés lack of objectivity in CIA paper. % lw)

16 5 SECRET

; NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 12


ry
O

IP SECRET

appear reluctant in the past. One was his

S
(a a friend of INGA

KARLAMOVA and the other’was his arrest in

1954 when he used a-KGB cover document to

2 obtain [ors

. a result he was removed as Komsomol Secretary.

In addition the "Characteristic" which was prepared
on him in early 1955 was critical of him and hie
mother had interceded with FETR FEDOTOV.,: Chief

of SCD,..who transferred NOSENKO to the 7th -

Department. This intercession possibly: prevented

his dismissal from Kon te
je. Assignment Against a) . 2

Fages 76-R0 relate to NOSENKO's assignment to

operations against American correspondents, It was stated

that although NOSENKO could give a breakdown of ‘the network 7

of agents used against correspondents in terms of number and.

type of agents, he had forgotten their true names and could

not provide personality information on any of chem S56 (1) | I-
ian
37 }
He SECRET ;
i
NW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 13



ry
O

SECRET
necessary and they were suitable for use ina
case.) NOSENKO had files on both of these agents
which he turned over to PHILLIP VASIIYEVICH KISLITSYN
when NOSENKO began work on military attaches. He
had no opportunity to use "RAKETA" in 1953.

“RAKETA' was an agent for some officer of Section II,

1st Department in 1960 or 1961 Gu)

i
On page 88 it is stated that ;
1 involved in at least two incidents inside = }

the Soviet Union which NOSENKO aid. not prone 6G

COMMENT : Dubtang interrogation of NOSENKO he could not

recall ‘specifically the arrest of fire 7

stated that there were many "akts" against U. S.

military attache personnel in which they were

detained and written descriptions of their so-called

“violations were prepared. He indicated that the

attache personnel, of course, in most instances

pew ee

refused to sign such documents, but nevertheless} /

4) :
Tl SECRET

| Respaesearpeaeesrossereeay

| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 14


iP SECRET
they were prepared Ad (W)
& ee KD)

On. pages 89 and 90 the paper indicates that NOSENKO
correctly identified (oo an Assistant Army
Attache and named his maid MARTYA NEVEROVA as an agent reporting
on him. It was stated, however, that NOSENKO referred to
LUDMILA GROMAKOVA: in connection with another matter as a
KGB agent during 1960-62 but did not relate her rol 6)
or to the 1953-55. period. CROMAKOVA gave[_]®ssian
language lessons. It was also stated that NOSENKO did not. *

s b
know. of VOLODYA who was ae and therefore. should

have been NOSENKO's agent. Hh

Gor

On December 11, 1967, (N-64), NOSENKO, in
response to a request, furnished a handwritten list
of his agents. , For the period 1953-54 he listed as ~
an agent a conener of the Russian language who was
giving lessons to correspondent CLARK. He also listed
for the period 1954-55 drivers of the military actache(\y

and his officers, indicated there were five or six and

42
Ke SECRET

|

AW

50953 Docld:32318825 Page 15



cy)
©

7 Tye SECRET
furnished the name of one as '"SHNIREV.'".(NIKOLAY

VASILYEVICH SHNYRYEV). NOSENKO.was not specifically

questioned concerning VOLODYA and GROMAKOVA's connections:

ee 2
£0

Pages 90-93 of the paper relate to Assistant Army |

attache «te was indicated that NOSENKO
correctly identified ©. knew nothing of his back-

ground, did not recall names of agents specifically targeted

against him, did not recall a newspaper article in March, at

is): : z :
1954, falsely accusing [fete his companion, did not

recall any unusual. circumstances involving the expulsion of

< :
ee cA 1954 and when told that the expulsion

took. place in that. year stated this was not thé correct date.

Tt was also indi¢ated NOSENKO did not recognize the name of
$s :
ae FEDEROVA. K HEIBIBIIT)

On April 18, 1968, (N-182), NOSENKO stated

2
that he hada file of d utilized a

chambermaid NEFEDOVA-against him as well “hy

Ne sooner

43

—

t
| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 16

\
i



(2)
OO

P- SECRET
drivers for the military attache's office, He

described the chambermaid and furnished her code

name as ''SHEVEDOVA". When shown the name FEDEROVA

he indicated that this was the name of ke)

maid rather than NEFEDOVA. He also said that her

first name was probably MARIYA but recognized DORA
as the first name when it was mentioned. to him. ‘He
stated that a driver for the military attache office

was "'SHNYREV" and accurately furnished his first name

as NIKOLAY, He said there were several "akts" on nae

3 ‘

Co frine his travel im the USSR which Le
Ss

refused to sign. He recalled chat ___firds

arrested with another. officer. while NOSENKO and his
wife were at Kubienka during the summer of 1954. i He
said that. this occurred on the &th or 9th of: the month,

probably July, and had appeared in the newspapers on”

those dates, We stated that he had been on, vacation
and his wife had given bitth to a baby in August, 1954.

(Actually the arrest took Place on July.4, or July 5,

% 1954, and may well not have appeared in the Soviet

44
ay SECRET

SS — = oe
i
t

HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 17


e ‘o)

He SECRET '
h

NOSENKO also pointed out that KGB obtained

newspapers until the &th or 9th) Ps

considerable information from microphones concerning :
operations and plans of the Military Attache personnel
including their discussions before trips, their plans

. for visiting various cities and points of interest

and their conversations after their trips. In addition

KGB knew how much money they had each year for

operations, the reactions of the officers to each

other, etc. Excerpts of information were given to i

the Disinformation. Department of Koa AU)

ee Expul si on FES ea

a

Pages 95 and 96 deal with the expulsion from the °

Soviet Union of Assistant U, S, Army Attaches |S

anim s expulsion resulted from seizure of equipment.

f

f

t

|

t

; S|

carried by these officers on May 5, 1955, and they were declared i
$

4

personae non gratae. Tt was stated that NOSENKO- claimed that.
this inefdent had occurred after he was transferred to the \

7th Department;. however, when_the May 7 date was given to ae

Tye seceer

[= aes oe es ese

45

t
| HW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 18


ie SECRET

he had turned the lst Section files over to
VALERIY BUDYLDIN who had worked for a short
period but was later fired from KGB and the
files were then transferred to VICTOR RASSADIN RYE (u)
: It_ appears that NOSENKO's failure to recall
gh details of this incident could be due to his

fny : hospitalization at the time it occurred.) R-(W) 7
a 2
Pages 97 and 98 relate tol Rest stant

Army Attache, at the American Embassy from March, 1951, to a

A

March, 1953. NOSENKO had reported that ALLA LARIONOVA was

placed on a train going from Berlin to Moscow with an assign-
ment to strike up an acquaintance with aie |
succeeded in meeting him and gave him her address and tele- a
phone number; however, he did not call her. NOSENKO heard
about this from PANKRATOV and knew of no other KGB interest

3, 5) .
in t was pointed out that enied

any meeting with LARIONOVA as alleged by NOSENKO and further

- 47
Ye SECRET

ras again: in Moscow from March 19 to May 19, 7995

| HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 19


na SECRET

while NOSENKO was still the case officer responsible for
Army Attaches. He was reported to the Russians as an
Assistant Army Attache on permanent assignment although it

’
was actually.a temporary assignment. ll

h

COMMENT : As indicated above NOSENKO stated on

April 16, 1968, (N-181), that he was in the hospital

for 30 or 40 days just prior to transfer to the 7th

Department and would have been in the hospital. during

April, 1955, When told that] @beurned to t

the USSR on March 19,-1955, NOSENKO said that he did.

not remember it. %
fio. EDWARD ELLIS wtha

On page 99 the paper pointS-out that NOSENKO.claimed: -

to have personally participated in the KGB operation against
® ‘ . ‘

EDWARD ELLIS SMITH in 1954-55. but the incident described by ~

NOSENKO in which SMITH was approached occurred in June, 1956,

after NOSENKO had been transferred to the 7th Department for

about a year. Hi)
: : ua :
: SECRET

ee

| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 20


O

: : ce) : KF SECRET
hh. ok

On page 99 it is also indicated that if NOSENKO
served in the Embassy Section (lst Section, 1st Department) -
during 1953-55, "It is difficult to perceive how he could

have remained unaware of ‘ANDREY'S' identity." NOSENKO

claimed that 'ANDREY" was spotted by ROY RHODES and was
recruited prior to NOSENKO's connection with KGB in. March, :
1953,. "“ANDRFY" was a crypto-répairman and the direct

subordinate of the Army Attache cryptographic security i

&)

COMMENT = NOSENKO has consistently stated that

“ANDRFY" was being handled by KOVSHUK, assisted ;

by BORODIN, and that he obtained information i f

regarding "ANDRFY" through conversations with [J

KOVSHUK and BORODIN. © Tnasmuch as NOSENKO did not 5
enter the /KGB until 1953, it does not seem
inconsistent for officers in his section not to

reveal to him the identity of an important agent

‘i f
who was furnishing important information on a serene)
i

* SECRET

52

a Shaanti 7 eae

| ae 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 21


fp SECRET
their duties and in addition noted that there were
2 FCD officers who were assigned to. the Section
"in practice" (for training purposes). He named
one of these officers, On the same date he listed
his special targets among the correspondents and
military officers during this period and discussed
the actions against them. He indicated that he had
operated agents against officers of the Military

Attache''s office but was not responsible for. the

officers of the Navy. and Air Force. «In addition he +
; 4
said that the Sergeants of all of the services: were

the responsibility of another officer in the: section.

He stated. that the main.objectives against. the Sergeants -

ae
were to. ascertain their weaknesses and.place girls in

contact. with them. Normally KGB:officers were. not
sent with foreign Attaches, when they traveled.in the
USSR except to. look for electronic gear. . He described

a search of the luggage of the Military Attache

5)
in which.he participated with
54 ee
iy SECRET.

r

| aw 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 22



ny SECRET

TONOV and KARETNIKOV of OTU whom he had known since
1953.19) a)

When shown a list of Soviets employed by
the U. S. Embassy in 1954 he selected the names

of eleven as agents of the lst Section. On

February P, 1968, (N-125), photographs of 18 : >
Soviet employees of American House were displayed

to him. He identified an old. woman known as’
BABUSHKA as. an- agent who: had. worked at American
House before 1953 and who had retired about 1960. 9 #
In another group he recognized the photograph of ‘
TAMARA ANTUFEVA as an: agent utilized:-in the

s)
ase who was sent to Berlin . :

: to contact him but was unsuccessful, -He-did not

recognize the photo$raph of GALINA G., MOROZOVA
1

and said he never saw her but Officer: RAKOVSKIY,

who worked. against American House and the Sergeants,

J

had an agent named MOROZOVA in 1953 or.1954, ‘He '

: | recognized’ the photograph of RAISA TROFIMOVA and

cau furnished her. name as an agent of RaKOVSK Tg OF

55

: : : Xe. SECRET t
dissteststts Haseeraeeeteit agieiadgenadl on eueaisigtsteassusiatvadadiniaiaven Teas)
I

| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 23



ay
QO

Wd SECRET

that CIA warned BELITSKIY against SHUIGINA. The paper noted
that CIA did not warn BELITSKIY against SHUIGINA but BELITSKIY
had reported to CIA that SHULGINA was a KGB agent. SHULGINA
was for two years a Secretary-Correspondent of NBC Correspondent

IRVING R. LEVINE and according to BELITSKIY was involved in

the sexual entrapment and KGB recruitment of
ee was stated that NOSFNKO's apparent ignorance of

SHULGINA's involvement with LEVINE and other Americans belied

his claim that she was his agent during: the 1955-58. period.

es
Tt was.also noted that'in 1964 he failed to: recognize her photo-
graph; when shown. her name-he identified her. not. as his former

agent but as an SCD agent involved with BELITSKIY. HAG,

COMMENT : On December 11, 1967, (N-64), NOSENKO listed
SHUILGINA as one of his agents and indicated rage in
1960 she left Intourist and worked in the Radio
Committee. On donueey 24, 1968, (N-109), he stated.

that she was an agent of GEORGIY IVANOVICH RASTRUSIN

before she was turned over to NOSENKO with whom she (Xu):

59

¥ SECRET

r

4
1
| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 24



Pp SECRET

or have teen her case officer in the 1955-57 period. It

was further noted that KUNGAROVA, who.

‘Res interviewed by the FBI and denied

collaboration with the KGB; that KUNGAROVA had died in 1965. a4

COMMENT : On December 6, 1967, (N-57), the name VIKTOR

KOPEYKIN was displayed to NOSENKO who’ identified him
as a Lieutenant Colonel working as a Senior Case 7 a

Officer in the 2nd Section of the 1st Department in

1960-62, He stated that KOFEYKTN “was keeping my ©

. 4
former agent VERA" who[ Oe

stated that she had left Russia wienf eae

was coming back to Russia and KGB was also studying }

: 3
the question of shether> fs connected with

American Intelligence. BR

On December 11, 1967, (N-64), NOSENKO listed"

TAMARA KUNGAROVA among his agents for the
1955-59 period. On January 11], 1968, (N-93),
NOSFENKO stated that she was "in close’ relations" Ruy”

ad 61

: Mk SECRET

— aa

\
| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 25

ses eee os pee oars see rer meee

he:



x SECRET

with a-representative of the Belgian airlines and

was trying to marry a foreigner. to-go abroad. xe)

On January. 30, 1968, (N-114), NOSENKO in

writing about KGB operations against the British

stated that in 1954-56 TAMARA KUNGAROVA and MARIANNA.
1

ZHETVINA were agents of the 2nd Department of SCD _ ;

and were working in the British Embassy. Both knew

the English language and were later turned over to
NOSENKO. by: ALEKSEY. SUNTSOV.  NOSENKO understood that |

they had been "in close relations" with employees of *

the Rritish Embassy, NOSENKO identified the: photo- a |

graph of. MARTANNA ZHETVINA and on March.18, 1968, U
(N-165),: identified the photopraph of TAMARA KUNGAROVA.

At that time he stated that she had worked for -him two

or three years but-in 1959 he had discontinued working
with her. She had been."in close relations". with

Americans on her. own initiative; some. of which she

- did not’ report. He recognized the name of I i i
| one .of the Americans with whom she. was in +

62 ; i
THe SECRET '

| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 26



nf SECRET i
contact. She was also an interpreter’ for. the
C——fow.

oup.

On August 24, 1968, (n-217), NOSENKO. stated
that he had seen the name fain reminded him 7
of a 2nd Department, SCD Operation against a-man by r
that name. He believed that TAMARA KUNGAROVA worked

against this-man. This happened prior to. the time

KUNGAROVA worked for him (NOSENKO) and. probably while :

she was working against. the British;..however., NOSENKO ;

was not sure thatL____Pas of British nationality. KR

4, YEVGENTYA DANKO K

-

On, page 109 the paper refers to YEVGENIYA DANKO who *

worked for [| at a6)

: 9
office’ in Moscow and later or“ hiccesnar,
Jet was indicated NOSENKO stated that he. took -

DANKO over from another 7th Department case officer during

the period 1955-57 and she was used to report on both TN) Aa]
Ee Ie e : a
and the paper noted that eft Moscow in ~ ieee
= aise

1961 by which time NOSENKO had transferred from the 7th

Department. “— t : : iis
63
a4 SECRET .

re cise
t
| HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 27



rhe SECRET

On November 4, 1967, (N-11), while discussing

[_fRosenro stated that the true name of Agent

"OKSANA" was EVGENTA VASILIEVNA DENKO.. On December 11,

1967, (N-64), he listed among his agents. EVGENIA DANKO

who was a translator at the permanent exhibition of

agriculture and industry in Moscow and from 1957 : be

worked as a translator for 3)
=

representative in Moscow. On April 18, 1968, (N-182),

NOSENKO stated that DANKO was a former Agent of IVAN

ALEKSEYEVICH KONSTANTINOV and NOSENKO received her *” 7
k

file in 1957 when KONSTANTINOV: retired, ..At- that time

she was. working at the permanent exhibition of agricultur,

cen era

as indicated above. later, however, she: was assigned
®
to ek en he inquired concerning an interpreter.

5)
S
After Cer fin rosie continued working in the
a
@
(. VOLKOV and verrenov |X (4

On pages 112 and 113 the paper refers to NOSENKO's’

Agents VOLKOV and YEFREMOV, —It was noted that he was anfamt tia! eee

\e SECRET.

64

oe

i

| ane 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 28


Jor SECRET
with their background and could not say where they lived or how

he got in touch with them when he required their service, It

was noted that they were involved with oné Dutch and five American

visitors, including three CIA Agents, in the Soviet Union which
was apparently unknown to NOSENKO. In addition they were
involved with two other Americans in 1959 while he was their

case officer but he learned about it only at the time-he

retired their files in 1962-63, Rw

COMMENT : On July 3, 1968, (N-207),.NOSENKO described
: : -

in detail his relations with the agents VOLKOV and 4
YEFREMOV, He stated that as a orate of tne {5)
case the ''Chiefs" of the 7th Department decided that :
a homosexual agent was needed, NOSENKO recruited the
young fellow who: was connected with ae through
him tried to get others. Then he visited the Moscow >
Investigation Department of the Militia (called
Criminal Investigation Directorate of Moscow) for
help. He was shown cards of Militia agents among which

was the card for ANATOLIY VOLKOV, a former. agent of a 4

a¢ SECRET

F nie itsapaisassaataa faa peeaneceee neces

65

| aw 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 29



4 SECRET

Americans who were suspected by KGR of being CIA
agents would likely be handled by KGB elements other

than the lst Section of the 7th Nepartment: where

NOSENKO was ey Sf C)
os

D
Pages 114 and 115 of the paper discuss tefl «YS

5)
case. (i fReoraine to NOSENKO, was observed in contact with

homosexuals. in Moscow but was not approached by KGB for reeruit-

Ss) :

ment. Tt was noted that although ad not been interviewed
‘ ; 4

in connection with NOSENKO's information, he had, in 1963, prior

to receipt of NOSENKO's information, denied any involvement with

homosexuals in the Soviet Union, a

s) :
4, still not been interviewed concerning

NOSENKO's allegations but it is noted that. in x

September, ee admitted homo-.
$) i x
sexual, advised that he observer —— ff "Kg

in July, 1963, and saw and overheard hi
jn |
:? “ 69 ‘
Ae SECRET

| NW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 30


€ O

P SECRET

proposition a young male for homosexual activities.

gs :
On May 16, 1968, [eergus his story but stated
f2) 4
that he attended with n

1944-45 and suspected that he was a homosexual. In

1963 he saw him infin a group of

homosexuals on a beach frequented almost exclusively

by homosexuals. &

In. addition, information was reported. to ‘the
American Embassy in Rome, Italy, in 1966 regarding

G .
a close association.between| land a young German,

S
cH according: to a physician. _

appeared to be. a. homosexual. 7

The above information effectively supports

NOSENKO''s allegation shee pap: sovoiona with
7 ‘S) :

'
homosexuals i
‘
On November 7, 1967, February 6, March 8, .and |

April 10, 1968, (N-14, 121, 125, 178), NOSENKO furnished ; |

detailed information regarding thief fne which

¢

indicated he had a personal. knowledge of that case.

7 h
He. said heihad no doubt. that fas connected wit

American Intelligence. This, conclusion was baséd opel

70 fan
\e SECRET |
fo

E 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 31


) a SECRET
com his manner of studying people and :

obtaining information from some of them. . NOSENKO

believed that could have been recruited by

KGB and said that PERFILEYEV later regretted that

he did not permit an approach Ce G

pl Je
Pages 115-121 relate to the[ case. On

page 120 it is stated that NOSENKO is unfamiliar with the mechanic

of KGB tracing procedures. pal 5 j

COMMENT : On Jamuary 26, 1968, (N-111), NOSENKO stated
i cae the KGB has a rule that when the KGB Archives _

are ed for {information on foreigners, both the

FCD Archives and the Archives of the KGB must be a
checked, On this date he discussed in detail the © ' |
handling of files pertaining to tourists and the transfer;
of the files to FcD when. the tourists leave ‘the ‘Soviet l

: i"
. i iat Bt Ui:
: i f SECRET O

fi
j

7 dgeassrenaseeisteassireioene {3
aasagussnsegeasbessnssi ogee” noe assvaszestepenasdveaststanreseaeeetiserazerit sStIeneaseias

| HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 32


oS

9 SECRET

Union. Information furnished by NOSENKO on this
date and on other dates indicates that he does have

(w);

adequate knowledge of KGB tracing and filing procedures

K ce
+ Fages 137-143 relate to the recruitment and operation
Ss
off). tn
Moscow. It is noted that the versions of NOSENKO and C6)

of the latter's reeruitment and operation agree with some

exceptions. It is stated that NOSENKO and [Bree that ,e
with one exception, (whenl J queried regarding Ne i

6 ‘
and WINTERS), re. not used to report on American Embassy

i

t

5

employees. It is also stated chat [Peiie acknowledging |
i

i

:

t

that. NOSENKO participated in all meetings with him, :stated. that ~
CHELNOKOV was-in charge of the entire operation. It is
2)

further stated that laims he saw NOSENKO on three
&

occasions, twice in Odessa while visiting the USSR: in 1962

and. 1963 whereas NOSENKO insisted. that. he met t once

in. Odessa and once in Moscow in that period, A au
i 72
‘ \ SECRET

I oe ss - re

\
| HW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 33



1H SECRET.

COMMENT | A review of the results. of FBI. interviews

5
oe. 1964’ disclosed that ao)

described the initial recrui ting contact of "NIKOLAEV"

and "GRIBOV', He identified a photograph of NOSENKO ie

as "'NIKOLAEV" .and stated that '"NIKOLAEV' displayed

photographs to him and carried out the interrogation,

He stated that "NIKOLAFV" conducted almost. all of the
interrogations during their meetings; however, ‘
"Colonel GRIBOV" was in charge of the entire operactonl Gy,

. This appears: to. agree with NOSENKO's account; he.

said that he.was the case officer and was accompanied

by. Colonel. V. D.. CHELNOKOV, Deputy Chief of the 7th :

Department. When CHELNOKOV's photograph was displayed ;

to e indicated. that it resembled “GRIBOV" ad

but would not make a definite identi fieacionbe i 4

admitted having. approximately six '
meetings through December, 1960, during which “NIKOLAEV" }
asked his observations of "various American Embassy ~ pe

officials." He specifically requested. on one = $7

73
af SECRET

r an a sseeseeesea a
t

t
(HW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 34


: of SECRET

information concerning Bowes OS information
regarding an economist at the Embassy whom)
presumed was GEORGE WINTERS. This also is. consistent

with. NOSENKO's account who stated that he questioned

2
cK out the Embassy and ‘about Embassy officers

. BOWDEN Ke NTERS |
Poort onreeyg

With regard to meetings in 1962 and 1963,

CoP he visited the USSR in February, 1962,

and went to Odessa for one day where: he was met by
“NIKOLAEV" and "GRIBOV.! At. that.time ‘they’ asked ro
if any American Naval: personnel. were. abroad the

Olympia’, Greek vesstT{Sn which he was traveling...
Again in the summer. of 1962 he accompanied: a group

of newspaper editors to the USSR at which time he

was contacted by "NIKOLAEV". at fb ecow

¢
hotel room. He next visited. tthe USSR -in-February,

1963, and again was approached by ''NIKOLAEV'. in

mel :

74

Me SECRET

HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 35



C O

P SECRET

On November 4, 1967, (N-11), NOSENKO, in.

writing about the | Tse, stated thatL___ 1 @

returned to, the USSR in the summer of 1962 with a

group of correspondents and he saw. him twice. In

March, 1963, { fas on|the vorympia' A Odessa

‘where I flew and have seen min

There does not appear to be any substantial

discrepancy between (ee NOSENKO's accounts

and no basis to suspect that NOSENKO is iringet

pe NOSENKO Not CI orice)

On page 145, in discussing. NOSENKO's- operational bh |

activities during the 1955-60 period, it is stated that the i

evidence suggests that NOSENKO was an English speaking :

specialist in sexual entrapment and not. a counterintelligence + |

officer, Further that NOSENKO furnished no information which

indicated that there was any material change .in his: duties and
responsibilities after he ‘was allegedly promoted to Deputy
Chief of the American-British Commonwealth Section. m5

: 75

i
= He SECRET :

| HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 36


n

Cy

Oo

: ad SECRET
:
2s. COMMENT: The statement ee: "NIKOLAEV"

(NOSENKO) conducted almost all of the interrogations

strongly suggests that NOSENKO was a counterintelli-
gence officer rather than just an "English speaking

specialist in sexual entrapment." A number of other

i
cases, all summarized in the CIA paper, establishes | I
this fact beyond reasonable doubt, ( ) !
(pages: 115-120) description of his recruitment is one

such case. He described his meeting with.a-Russian,

2
"ANATOLI," fon June .18, 1956;f%ho introduced. him to. ,.
i

"VIKTOR" and “YURI. IVANOVICH" in a Moscow restaurant

s,
on (June 20, 1956 {hie identified the photograph of

YURI IVANOVICH NOSENKO as "YURI IVANOVICH" and said

he left after about twenty minutes. On Pune 23, 1956, [e)
s) 9g
oe ae to nee he was met.at the

airport by "YURI IVANOVICH" and. "VLADIMIR. STEPANOVICH"

who took him to an apartment and introduced him to ~ i
“ANATOLI SERGEEVICH" (undoubtedly ANATOLI SERGEEVICH :

KOZLOV, Deputy Chief of the 7th Department who ye t

75a

i
: : uy SECRET pee 2

NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 37


C)
Cy)

P SECRET
2.

NOSENKO said accompanied him to[kiev nd
participated in the approach mT |S)
said "ANATOLI SERGEEVICH" was the ranking

officer, referred to as Colonel, and he and

"YURI IVANOVICH" had come from Moscow, "VLADIMIR
STEPANOVICH" was assigned to Ktev]® “avaroxr
SERGEEVICH" led the questioning and there was |

no doubt he was in charge. However, "YURI

IVANOVICH" appeared to give orders to "VLADIMIR

STEPANOVICH" and also appeared to be in charge ro
during the brief encounter with "ANATOLI" and
“VIKTOR" in the restaurant in Moscow before he
went to Fievjy 7

It is submitted that a mere "English

Speaking specialist in = entrapment"!

would not. be taken tol Kiev i the Deputy Chief

of 7th Department after only a twenty-minute

i Ss
encounter with ? Moscow. Further, such

a specialist" would not. give orders to a KGB

officer stationed in fies fitev.Pmis is clearly ai

75b

Ne SECRET

—_

(NW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 38
{



‘@)
O

§ SECRET
role of a case officer and lescription

confirms NOSENKO's account. 5)

Four other cases cited in the CIA paper
Support NOSENKO's contention that he was a case

officer. The subjects confirmed NOSENKO's accounts

of their recrut ements (Wa (U)
i 128) identified NOSENKO

as one of the two men involved in her recruitment

and. said he ''was definitely: the man in charge"'

while the other "was merely present and listened." AR,

5)
[J Gages: 130-131) -tdenti fied. NOSENKO' s

Photograph as his interrogator and said it. was

|

|

clear. that he was ey man in. charge. iff).
[ 132-133) identified NosENKo A

as the "Colonel SERGEYEV" who recruited. him and

said the mere sight of NOSENKO's photograph. 3

“sent. shivers down his. back," B tad See
fers the photograph of

NOSENKO. might. ;be the 'GEORGE PETERSON" who: . 7 ; {

ni
iy
'
4

recruited him. yo

75c.,,

{ 1
[
Me stoxsr, 1

- SSSr rs eeo asec poner pea ssseensssssenncentonteranse otsesseeenessttworasassetaonese) sty
r —

CHW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 39



We SECRET

have had access to information concerning all of them’

while Deputy Chief of the Section im 1958-59. [~ Ys]

s) i
wag there in 1959; — there in 1956 but

a |
had subsequent trips; (kanror] S believed to have

visited relatives (As indicated above, such cases

would probably not have come to NOSENKO's attention);.

(2) /
CH. (faerie than American. (NOSENKO's

section may have had an interest if he was a part

5)

of the ee there in late 19593.
(si. —_as there in 1957. but did not go as a tourist
(9L___]probabiy did not visit the Soviet Union.as a

tourist; iad previously been tecruited(in

9g
th 1946-47 and was re-recruited in 1962;

also visited relatives. References to all of. these

cases could, of course, have. been in the 7th. 3

Department files reviewed by. NOSENKO when. he became

Deputy Chief of the Department. Three of them iG
‘Ss ; ies cee
[| da Raxrox] ON in notes prepared for the

BOBKOV list referred to above.

Therefore, it.does not |

79.
> Ne SECRET

:
H
}

50953 Docld:32318825 Page 40



THe SECRET

appear that his retention and delivery of notes

regarding these cases should be given serious

consideration as an indication he is not bona fide.

His “knowledge of the cases is consistent with his

plausible explanations regarding his possession of

: the notes i q : Les
fi. American Intelligence Use of coal

Pages 146-150 relate to NOSENKO's awareness of what : |

the KGB knew concerning the use of tourists by foreign intelli-
a

gence services. It was noted that he claimed to have prepared

a report for. scD Chief GRIBANOV in 1959, but could not remember

the content, any examples included therein or the conclusions

regarding American-British tourist intelligence operations. It-,;

is stated ‘that he claimed no agents were definitely identified
among American tourists and no tourists had been caught in the
act of mailing letters, servicing dead drops, or contacting : : i
agents with one exception. This exception: he named [as Cd

who mailed a letter in Minsk in 195901 was noted. that thisy< i

: ; . 80 : : i
y X SECRET \
i

: ; ibe i

i
I

wo
1
| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 41


Co CO

1K SECRET
case as described by NOSENKO actually related to

| s
in August, 1958 vever. [one
[te the Soviet Union in April-May,

1959, and was the target of KGB provocations although he

had no intelligence connections. It was stated that inter-

rogation did not resolve how NOSENKO knew the. name Le

but not the background of his case and knew the background of

(Ss, , -
[fase but not -his name. a, .

is

The CIA paper also relates that the KGB agent GEORGE

BLAKE furnished to KGB in 1959 a 19 page document covering a

conference held in London between British and CIA representatives

outlining British and American use of tourists for intelligence

purposes, The KGB was therefore fully aware of the use of

tourists and it was stated that the substance of this informa:
tion, if not the document itself, would have been brought to:
the attention of the Deputy Chief of the American-British
Commonwealth Section. 7E(u)

81

Docld:32318825 Page 42



P SECRET i
tourists for intelligence. The lst Department
of SCD wrote the final report about. overall

American Intelligence operations against the USSR, 4

but NOSENKO'

Ss portion regarding use of tourists was

considered good and was accepted as writcen £0 f(u)

NOSENKO stated that there was an analysis each

year regarding use of tourists for intelligence and

even in 1955 there were some indications of tourist

use by Americans including "little. facts" - how the

tourists acted, trying to get military information, *

trying to find drops, studying candidates for

recruitment, etc,

Each year they .had. good examples

for the analysis including the use of other

nationalities by the Americans. NOSENKO, however,

could not remember any of the specific examples 3 '

: iol
used in the analysis ey C : to

fa i
_On April 1, 1968,.(N-175), when questioned: concern-
7 ?

5 a
ing a case involving © something. like ee
|
-83 ;

i ; ; i
; Ye SECRET ;

URW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 43


Me SECRET
who was mentioned as mailing a letter, NOSENKO stated
that this case, at the beginning, was a task for the

8)

7th Department. ‘as an "aspirant" (student)

"and he arrived in Russia having several tours and

had about 30 or 40 days." He was young and alone

and although there was no information on him in the
Archives he was. suspected because of his:"legend"

(stated reason for coming to the USSR). He, therefore
was the subject of coverage which detected his mailing 4
ofa letter in Minsk. This was reported to Moscow by. |

KGB in Minsk, apparently directed to GRIBANOV, who

turned the case over to the First (American) Departme:

which thereafter handled the investigation. This

happened in the late 1950's but NOSFNKO could not

recall the year, NOSENKO stated that the letter i

(&) ‘

Russian, (The transfer of this case from the 7th to

the lst Department suggests that the Russian to whom
the letter was mailed. was being used in an operational
game by the 2nd Section of the lst Department.)

84 ;
Xe SECRET
. ae EE sds nSEsSESGESERSERSTSEEOGEO

| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 44


he SECRET
It should be noted that thef___fedse

is.mentioned in the KGB document acquired by CIA
in 1961 which, as noted below, NOSENKO reviewed
after the defection of ANATOLTY GOLITZYN. His

knowledge of this. case obviously could have been

: acquired at that time, although it might well have
been acquired when KGB, Minsk, was covering him
under 7th Department guidance Le
On March 7, 1968,. (N-159), in response:to a
question, NOSENKO said he saw very little information*”
which emanated from the FCD. regarding: American ‘use :

of tourists for intelligence; however, he had seen

passages from a document which was in possession

of SCD and which related to discussions in London t i
between American, British, and Canadian
= vepresentatives regarding use of tourists

\
Ls
|
for intelligence. He could. not specifically recall . i |

when the conference took place but believed it was in

il a5 ea :
¥ SECRET

| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 45

1958. This document had. come from FCD. and he "KY



Tip SECRET
(ance assessment). He said the document contained
the names of foreigners against whom. KGB was working
oF planned to work, The document was prepared in

1960-61. NOSENKO participated in discussions of

j “ the content of the document after GOLITZYN's defection

i and some cases mentioned therein were considered

compromised and ''x'd out." He did not: believe the

document contained the names of any persons who had

been. recruited but mostly related to suspects. He

{ (6, e,
4 volunteered the rane] the only name. that
j 7

he could recall in the document. However, on

March 7, 1968, (N-159), he was shown a list of. 26

1 names which were contained in the ‘document and. selected,
the names of. three as. names. he recalled fg J :
It is considered significant that NOSENKO ia 7 ‘

e
is. aware of. the document. pertaining to tourists

purloined by. GOLITZYN.: A review. of..this. document

indicates. that most of the cases referred. to therein

as having occurred in 1958.and 1959, are such esd

16 SECRET

91. >

(MW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 46


tT)
o)

oe : : ree fe SECRET

NOSENKO would not normally have come. into
possession of information regarding them while
he was Deputy Chief of the American-British
Commonwealth Section. Of the 19 cases mentioned

: therein only seven occurred before 1960 and only

i : one appears to have been the type of case which would

‘ have been handled by the American-British Commonweal

3)
of

: as the o of a tourist firm; |

n exchange. student .in-1959-60;
Q, a 7
(2 arently visited the USSR asa member

4
of a group; iscussed above,..was
brought to the attention of the. American Department

H and was. handled by that..Department; es

who visited in ‘August, 1959, was introduced to a...

KGB agent employed at the American Embassy and may’:

\ well have been handled by the lst .Department;

92

Hine : i : ofe SECRET dauneal

4

aaa estes et igapaacadinesl oeeftuatsoe taboo Fo PuSseeaE EEOC ane Se

| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 47


SECRET
fiw. in 1959 with’ the #

and not as an individual tourist.

visited during November, 1959... He was ‘an ae
2)

Professor at Iniversity and eC) :

He was apprehended in November 13, 1959, \(s):

while attempting to photograph a factory. His is i

the only case among those in the document which
logically should have come to the attention of

NOSENKO while he was in the American-British :

Commonwealth. Section prior to 1960... Thus:his. lack

of knowledge does not appear to be rome E-

E. NOSENKO's Assignment to lst Section, Ist Department,

wu
ee eee am Januar: Ty, 1960 - January, SL) aia Za ww
Pages 151- 261 of the CIA paper relate to the period : |

January, 1960, to January, 1962, when NOSENKO claims to have =
i been the Deputy Chief of the American pba sey Section (lst
Section) of the American Department (lst Department). It is

related that. according NOSENKO, he was

supervi sor of all >< (y) |

ca 1c | :
he SECRET oe

| aw 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 48


aay
i
j

TWP SECRET.
operations against code clerks and for some months against
service attaches; ‘case officer for the Embassy security
officer, JOHN V. ABIDIAN; custodian of the Embassy Security
file; and reviewer of all information. obtained from microphones.

It is stated that a comparison of his assertions with collateral

information indicates that "he was none of these," yA) ; a
It was also asserted that NOSENKO claimed complete
knowledge of KGB recruitments and recruitment attempts against
U, S. Embassy personnel, knowledge of CIA.personnel .on. the :
Embassy Staff identified: by KGB: and: status of: the KGB crypto~ ;
logic attack on Embassy: communications. It is. stated. that his
apparent ignorance of KOVSHUK's. relationship wieh___[ha
KOSOLAPOV's connection wich Deore his contention. . : {
about knowledge of all recruitment attempts and, contrary

$ :
to his claim, he does not know of CIA personnel. on the Embassy !

staff identified by KGB. It is also stated that his. information
on the cryptologic attack on Embassy communications 18 superficial

and in-error: It was concluded that NOSENKO. was. neither Deputy.

9% ;
a he SECRET

HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 49


IP SECRET
included (1). The Agent net of the lst Section,
(2) Knowledge that ROY RHODES furnished the
original information on American use of electronic

apparatus,

(3) Knowledge of attempts to obtain permission

of the Chairman of KGB to put microphones in a wing
of the American Embassy,

(4) Trips and aims of the trips of GRYAZNOV:.to
Berlin in 1960, and KOSOLAPOV to Helsinki in 1960

and Copenhagen in 1961, : . |

(5) Knowledge of foreign agents obtained from
conversations with leaders of other departments,

(6) Planning for technical counterintelligence

froma building opposite American Embassy.

(7): Overdraft of operative money made by KOVSHUK. +

(8) Facts about the 2nd Section! Ss cases eee ene

to. BELITSKIY, roe others and the trip

of..the Chief. of 2nd Section, PETROV, to Frankfort

. in 1961, _
_ 101 ‘ i
; : ‘Ye SECRET : :

=

t
j NW 50953 Doclda:32318825 Page 50


/P SECRET

2. KOVSHUK's Acquaintance with Americans| % 0)

On page 158 it is stated that NOSENKO said KOVSHUK

had personal contact with some American Embassy Officers but

NOSENKO. could identify only WINTERS. on Page 159 it is

indicated that NOSENKO did not know | @

was identified formally by the American Embassy to. the Soviet

Government as a CIA employee; he was also not aware that

KOVSHUK was in personal contact with] Ly’
COMMENT : On March 5, 1968, (N-155), NOSENKO stated =

that KOVSHUK had social meetings with{tewrs WwW.
BOWDEN Pe ‘April caf 1968, (N- +186), NOSENKO

stated that he believed KOVSHUK also knew

ee ee |
pe GOLITZYN*'s Information Re. Recruitments nh w a
ort! .

On pages 162 and 163 information is set £ which

was obtained from GOLITZYN Pertaining to recrultments or possible

recruitments of American, personnel, _ Tt was reported ‘that GOLITZYN

visited the Embassy Sectisn in the. Spring of 1960 and vearnea R ()
104

: Ye SECRET

(NW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 51
t


T SECRET

It is considered probable that the 1961
communication referred to by GOLITZYN is identical
with, or related to, data furnished by[ iin (s)
1967 which. indicated KGB was emphasizing operations
against code clerks in 1961. The-contents of the
document made available by) ____Jundoubteaty S)
emanated from JOHN DISCOE SMITH, a forter State
Department code clerk and erypta technietan-who
resigned in December, 1959, left. the United States
in:May.or June, 1960, and whose whereabouts. there- ae
after were. unknown until he. was publicized.as a i
defector by the Soviets: in.the. Fall -of .1967.;. Kw

In this. connection it is:not, clear how, GRYAZNOV
of the SCD would.have knowledge: of SMITH :in. the Spring
of 1960, If SMITH was. an agent prior to that:time he
would have been antagent.of FCD. .NOSENKO has. reported,
however, that..another friend of GRYAZNOV!s, NIKOLAY
SKVORTSOV of FCD was handling "ZHARI". (believed to be

the erytonym of SMITH) in 1961-and later.''ZHARI" was

“107
Ti SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32318825

Page 52



P SECRET
being handled by ARTEMEV of the SCD. w

The possibility exists that GOLITZYN obtained
information regarding the "real agent" from SKVORTSOV

rather than GRYAZNOV. SMITH could have arrived in

Moscow or otherwise have been in contact with
SKVORTSOV during the period April -. July, 1960,
which GOLITZYN indicates ‘in the period he talked

to GRYAZNOV. At any rate, there is no certainty that

an American code clerk. assigned to Moscow in the Spring

of 1960: had been recruited: by. KGB as Sle Xu):

na)

Page 163 also sets forth information obtained from

GOLITZYN who said that in the Spring of 1960 he was told by iiaegee

GRYAZNOV that the latter had developed an operation against

Shop was 99 percent sure that’

ould be recruited. os - a |
S)

In January, 1961, GOLITZYN learned from KOVSHUK that

SS hen a ‘KGB agent, had recently been used
i he SECRET

an Embassy|

‘WW 50953 Decla:32318825 Page 53
i


Ba SECRET

in the successful recruitment of an employee of the American
Embassy, Ce should be noted-that when GOLITZYN was interviewed
by FBI concerning this matter: GOLIT2YN related a he had inquired

concerning his possible use off (2. hed been denied -

permission because he had been used in another operation,

' GOLITZYN could not be. sure that the operation had been successful

and presumed that it was against an employee of the American

iB

Embassy, From KOVSHUK's comments he assumed that the ope eration :

was successful.) eu) : fie : z

: The comments of GRYAZNOV and KOVSHUK undoubtedly refer l

to KGB efforts to recruit 3) j

j
Information furnished by NOSENKO. concerning this operation is set [
Ceeeeea

ae Lhe

forth on pages 166-177 of CIA paper, It is noted therein thet

: S
GOLITZYN's information concerning the use of dee ae

attempted recruitment of Des the incident at the end

a)

of [i960 [Roserx0 claimed that the approach took place about

(June, 1961 fe (— Bletnes that it took place in |

1961, It was concluded that GOLITZYN's timing was.more plausible. anes

: ‘Ss i
“therefore the operation against|______|took place more than six |

_ months prior, to -the time claimed. by NOSENKO and eos !

eR ea ee eee vo Xp secret i

: i : “109
pa
fF

{ NW 50953 Docla:32318825 Page 54

oe



&

TT! SECRET -
It was stated that such an inaccuracy by NOSENKO concerning an
event which took place less than a year before he described it
to CIA in June, 1962, undermines his claim to the role he played
and his claim.to have been Deputy Chief of Section 1 and Super -

visor of code clerk operations, va

; %
COMMENT : It is noted that Ren interviewed

substantially confirmed NOSENKO's version of the..

approach except for the date. He also related that
in the middle of October, i961 JE the evening of
the “KGB recruitment attempt against him, he saw
"MICHAUD" (skvoRTsov) : —— an
unidentified female sitting together in the American

5)
House Club. (Note that[__ftetually left Moscow

in[august, 1961 Ys) . : Hl
eo interviewed by FBI Agents on . .

May 22, 1968, and readily identified. the photograph
of SKVORTSOV as MARCEL MICHAUD whom he had seen on |
one occasion at American House. He related that he

had visited Sheet con House. Club one evening during end) |
id i: 110 wa :
ye SECRET
: H

HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 55

F
'
j
t


O
e:

a SECRET

middle of the week and observed several people

sitting at-a table. He probably recognized someone

at the table (he cannot recall specifically) but
approached the table and asked one of the two

females at the table to dance. While dancing she

said she was a "journalist" from West Germany, that

she was with MICHAUD (who posed as.a French businessman,
a furrier) but fe uae bothering. her and she didnot want
to stay with him.. After dancing with this girl he met
MICHAUD who praised the French female's ability. to make
love. Qreribed the girl as age 24, attractive,

dark hair, five feet. two inches. .He did not recall her

Lae |
S He
Loe that foe have been. at-

the table aN he could not recall specifically seeing
s

ja this occasion. . He was positive, however,

that this was the only occasion that he had seen MICHAUD

>
at_American House, &

Later in the evening, the West German girl went

to his room for a drink. He arranged to: see her agai

111
* SECRET

HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 56



.. TOP. SECRET
at which time he visited Red Square with her and
recalls seeing a puppet show. Thereafter she eda ("
to his room and performed a perverted sex act on him,

. Cats not recall the date of this incident
but believed that it occurred approximately the
beginning of February, 1961,[he was certain that it
did not occur before his vacation trip to Eas
last week. of /Jamuary, 1961;]She was also certain: that
it occurred in cold weather because the female. wore
winter. clothing when they visited. Red: Square and he. =
recalled the wheather was very cold. He stated-that A
the incident definitely occurred before the first week of

[May, 1961 Pecause during that week he went to

g,
and did not. return until mid-July, 19617} Ac the time

of his return there was a letter waiting for him from

this West German girl. He left Moscow permanently in:
fsgust, 1961 IW
© was interviewed on. August 15, 1968, by

FBI Agents in an attempt to fix as accurately as i

112 cee ieee
Ne SECRET

seas sasasasasmagae’

r

| HW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 57


SECRET

the date on which KGB made the recruitment approach
to him. (It is noted he stated on September 28, 1964,
that on the evening he was approached, prior to leaving

4S
American House, he had seen ancing with:

@ girl who accompanied MARCEL MICHAUD (SKVORTSOV) to
American House. It is also noted that[ inter:
view on May 22, 1968, recalled seeing MICHAUD on one
occasion only, He was certain this took place prior to’
the first week of (May, 1961; Z envhe left.Moscow for ,. '
Seturning in wtd-daty, 196. J i Siete

¢ :
2) arted seeing’ ___fivth MICHAUD i

on one occasion which he believed. was either the evening |

‘ |
of the recruitment approach to him or the date of the ~ |

prior visit to MICHAUD' s apartment about ten<days

earlier. He also recalled that the weather was very”

cold at the time of the approach, On the first visit 1
to MICHAUD's hotel it was snowing and on the night of

the. approach it was very cold because he wore a heavy

“ coat and a nae ae ; : nae ! '
113 :

‘HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 58
'


TPP SECRET

3 ee
cae © first stated that the approach was

about four months before he left Moscow and then stated

it was about one and one-half months and not. more than

two months. He claimed that he did not have long to
go until the end of his tour of duty. ‘He is certain that i
: his replacement i Mot. arrived at the time of -
the incident. atrived in-Moscow in September,
1961.) He also stated the incident occurred after he
saw the message which becca ace i
7
activities. He believed the incident occurred quite:
sometime after the Ice Capades people were -in. Moscow.
because he had a good time when they were there and he
did not have a good time after the approach. He ‘stated
that he did not believe he could have “sweated it. out" !
for as long as six months; that regardless of how it fee

may appear, his recollection is that the; ineident could”

not have happened more than two months before his depart i

$ ;
Despite contentions, .it.is noted that 1 -

both he and NOSENKO have. indicated that MICHAUD did “es

it 114
TOP SECRET

Sista Siiesiseiactioear ‘atta

i

| MW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 59


O

app SECRET
visit the American House over an extended period of
time; chae[[_fdeanne Cole MICHAUD oe
Prior to his visit to MICHAUD's hotel; that ee

the incident when he saw MICHAUD as prior to May, 1961;

s) c :

and that. both d fer to the cold . howe

: : ’ aie
weather. (fare Moscow in[august, weoifine__] a

arrived in September, is6r] @{Both probably before

very cold weather.) These factors together ‘with :
NOSENKO's assertion enaef approached. :
*

Ss 3) Hey

before eparture on (June''16,.1961}trongly
3 : i
indicate that as approached sometime before

May, 1961, and that NOSENKO's version of. the date of

the approach is more accurate than GOLITZYN's version dg) !

<n > .

Pages 178-181 relate to the KGB attempt to defect

gee Per eer
| aU. S. Army npectalist fs served in Moscow. i :
i

from December, 1960, to June 16, 1961, The paper raises a : a

number of questions concerning NOSENKO's version of this inet dent

a 2
115

The ‘ SECRET 1

rae

| HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 60


C 8)

He SECRET

It_is stated that no KGB officer directly connected with the

a”
case could regard) _ ) a replacement for Cr
was noted chat fala not identify the photograph of NOSENKO

as the individual who approached him at the airport and his

description of this person did not fit that of NOSENKO,. It

was stated that[ [ior to his departure from Moscow,

acknowledged to his superiors that he had homosexual tendencies

and admitted being involved in three homosexual incidents-at L

: American House. (It is noted, that NOSENKO claimed. that KGB kneg |
from the microphone ‘coverage that his homosexual: activities were |
S)
not. discussed vith| tor to-his departure and hoped: to

induce his defection by sending him a letter which would suggest

he was in.trouble because of these activities.) “
The paper also concluded that KGB would shave learned

from microphone coverage, contrary to NOSENKO's assertion, that

(C) a report the receipt of the KGB defection ‘letter .to his . |

superiors, fan noe :!

“T16

: fp SECRET (

F

| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 61


COMMENT :

Ye SECRET

fas trained for a period

‘S)
of time by n the [7 “ura

well suggest to the KGB that he was to be the ee

ment for] ‘JO me U. S. Army intelligence file

was reviewed by FBI representatives on July 10, 1968,

(S,
and contained no indication that] ®onosemuat

activities were discussed with him before he left Moscow

The fact that

on June 16, 1961. On the contrary a memorandum prepared

by his superior, ee oo S.a'
Pe

Army Attache dated June 16,-1961, which. summarized: A
etivities, mentioned derogatory comments
which had been received about his relations with

members of the American Ice Capades who were known

Ss ht
or suspected homosexuals and noted chae{__Ifite

been informed of the reasons for his.transfer from.

Moscow, ‘except that he was not informed of the

allegations of homosexual ty in order. not. to ageravate

the poss ibility of a of a rash act by him while within-the

Soviet Union. a Ke
nye SECRET

f

|; NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 62


Me SECRET
This memorandum clearly supports. NOSENKO' s
version of this incident &(u)
With regard to ra arity to identify
NOSENKO it is pointed out that he saw the individual

who approached him only momentarily, but it is

recognized that his description of the individual

is not close to that of NOSENKO A
ED)
Pages 181-184 relate to the KGB rerio against
S A .
Donn io arrived in Moscow it
k
in September, 1961, to assume thd Cee of [ 6) '

and to remain there until January, 1963, on page 183 it was

stated chat [rt evea to U. S. Army authorities in 1963

that in the summer of 1962 he had been intimate with an

Austrian woman’ "LILLIAN" who had visited American House with

someone from the United Arab Republic and returned alone a few” :
days later. The American House manager interviewed her and
learned that she claimed to be from Vienna.and was traveling

with her employer, a Czech: The Embassy security officer tenon

7 118 : i
Ke SECRET :

| HW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 63
i


a)
co

fe SECRET
that she had no Austrian Passport and asked her for her
Passport. She left and never returned to Americn House, It was
stated that NOSENKO described this incident in , commen with

KGB attempts. to 7) Mea feo”) not [th fis62;'3)

that interrogation of NOSENKO never resolved how he knew of this

incident. is

Ss *
Also with regard to tel __fPre, it is stated that

NOSENKO identified ELLA UMANETS as a KGB agent employed at

American House but never related her. to I} #6)
e

COMMENT ; On March 20, 1968, (N-167), NOSENKO related

that in 1960 GRYAZNOV had gone to East Germany and

brought: to Moscow two girls who were to be targeted
against American House. One of these girls, possibly _
known: as "HANNAH", described by NOSENKO as a fat
blonde in her mid thirties, posed as a ae
from West Germany. This girl was introduced into : |
American House with the help a
Pee stated that another woman had been -

documented as an Austrian but had. not been mccestoh iy

‘* 3 119 :
7p SECRET

-

(NW 50953 Decra:32318825 Page 64


TMP SECRET.
as’ an agent against American House. He said this
woman had some difficulty at American House regarding
her passport (K Se )
From information set forth above obtained from
Ce appears clear that NOSENKO did not confuse
the use of a female agent in » shel Te with that
in ane Kent emes that he had contact

with a West German "journalist" at American: House. The

(3 :
"LILLIAN" described ry] 24 be ‘the girl documented

as an Austrian as related by NOSENKO or:.could be sti}l

a third female as

The discrepancy between NOSENKO's description
$s

of the "journalist" and that by s not considered

particularly significant although NOSENKO appears to be

in error. He probably confused the."West German" with

the vasertan. 4) . ae : a
a |

Pages 185-192 relate to KOSOLAPOV's trips to Helsinki re

. and the and. Jcases. It is stated therei ;
S$ IG) pe x
120
Ye SECRET
i

I 5
{HW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 65



.)
C)

a SECRET

that NOSENKO claimed KOSOLAPOV traveled to Helsinki in early

1960 for a double purpose (1) to probe for a new way to get. in
~‘touch with American code clerks and (2) to make contact with i

if. was to come to Moscow via Helsinki. NOSENKO

claimed to have read KOSOLAPOV's report indicating that he
had made contact. with 2 the train trip from Helsinki

to Moscow. It was noted that in oe. is listed |

lo; :
on the train manifest for fiarch aifiseo, and the alias used }

by KOSOLAPOV is listed on the manifest for (April 2fo«0, Thus

KOSOLAPOV could not. have —— the train Ae” ‘

It was concluded that the oo indicated

NOSENKO was neither KOSOLAPOV's supervisor nor: supervisor ‘over

all KGB operations against code clerks, This conclusion was te

strengthened by the fact that NOSENKO. could not recall a trip 4

by KOSOLAPOV to Helsinki in(Rovenber 1960, at which time he = (s)
apparently returned to Moscow on the same train ane —— Fj |
NOSENKO emphatically denied that KOSOLAPOV had traveled to Helsinki

except in connection: with the[____lease. Tt..was, concluded thatS] :
121

7 i ie SECRET aoe

i
{
| NW 50953 DoclId:32318825 Page 66


i

Me SECRET
this denial is fatal to his claims that he was KOSOLAPOV's

supervisor and supervised all operations against American

code clerks. BAL

COMMENT : On November 6, 1967, (N-13), NOSENKO submitted

comments concerning KOSOLAPOV's trip to Helsinki similar

to that information previously furnished by him. On
June 1, 1968, (N-200), he insisted KOSOLAPOV made
contact with 2) the train trip to Moscow

and. wrote a report to this effect when he returned. a

This discrepancy has not been clari ties (SMMC) ‘

With regard to KOSOLAPOV's second trip to

Helsinki'tt is noted that it took place at about

the same time NOSENKO traveled to Cuba. It is also

5 -
noted that hones that he was contacted on
the train by any Russian, despite the fact. that. ~

$ ro

: |

KOSOLAPOV apparently rode the same train. Since . !
|

i

there was no approach col Ji nothing "important"

happened on the train, it is not conataered (K/

"122

ie si SECRET ;

—_ co _

! HW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 67


C Q

* Ye SECRET
inconceivable that NOSENKO just never was advised
of KOSOLAPOV' s trip, There appears to be nothing
sinister about his denial of knowledge of this og)
oF ie
: Pages 193-199 relate to the KGB operation against ‘ a :

| ea is stated that NOSENKO is apparently unaware

of a involvement with friends of KGR agent SVETLANA ‘

IVANOVA at. the apartment of SARWAT EL SHAZLY, his illicit currency

dealing with PIETRO CECCHI and his relationship with ELLA UMANBTS.

: : k
Tt was also stated that NOSENKO erred in relating the East German

os fe) ;
female agent sent to the American House cof —‘fthat this

incident occurred later. It was concluded that this case

indicates NOSENKO was not supervisor of all. KGB operations

|
against American code storks) BP : : :

COMMENT : ee indicated above(— ‘This furnished information :

regarding his relationship with a West. German journalist’

who is undoubtedly one of the East German girls brought
to Moscow by GRYAZNOV, one of whom posed as a West German
A correspondent as related by Nosenro. gle

123
nie SECRET

| HW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 68


a c 2

TYP SECRET
On January 11, 1968, (N-92), NOSENKO gave a

5)
written summary of the[__]€Ase which was basically

the one as his previous information but added that

fe a U. S. Marine in 1961 met out in the city

of Moscow,a female agent who worked at American House, peo

and her girl friend. They went to a restaurant and
about. one or two o'clock. in the morning returned to
the American Embassy (or American House) ‘where the

girls remained until morning. He also related that”
le not approached by KGB primarily because
fas considered more important and KGB did

not want to prejudice that case,

On April 6, 1968, (N-177), NOSENKO. stated that ;

he believed that. the 10)... who went to the restaurant.

wich[ Plas ae ‘urther. that SARWAT EL SHAZLY

also reported something sour py he could ‘not
: YS A

vecall what it vest

pare 2)

ag SECRET '

rm : Ses am seeee atl cae atta
|

HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 69


ie SECRET

On May 7, 1968, (N-190), NOSENKO stated that
girls working in the American House were reporting

on[ fea he was particularly friendly with

SVETLANA IVANOVA. He said PIETRO CECCHI also

. reported "pieces of information" about Qe

NOSENKO did not know of any black market dealings

between CECCHI ane 19) He stated that the
photographs often the Polish girl wete

considered. insufficient to compromise him and: KGB

wanted. to create something more, possibly photographs eu

with Russian girls, IVANOVA was considered. as-a fi

Prospect in this connection and she.and-her girl

friend had met[__Jia a Marine in a restaurant

and thereafter spent the night in the: "flat" of one

of the Marines. At this. time he stated that. the Marine

with co this: occasion was pessttty( ls) :

It is noted that. when s interviewed
on October 16, 1962, he furnished information

regarding his intimacy with fhe friend of SVETLANA

- IVANOVA in the apartmerit ae) eS
: 125

a THe SECRET

| S
| NW 50953 Docta:32318825 Page 70
!


mye SECRET

3)
He stated chat [vas also present and

presumably was intimate with SVETLANA. He

intimate with them. (This is inconsistent with
data set forth on page 198 of the CIA paper. y

Cent tte exchanging currency with

PIETRO CECCHI but claimed that these exchanges ‘did

not exceed $200 or $300 Be

Thus, contrary to the CIA paper, NOSENKO is &
$)

aware of sexual involvements and the

East German girl was involved with [_ []GNosenxo' s

information seems adequate for a sopervisor Xy/

126

ve SECRET,

r

(NW 50953 Doclda:32318825 Page 71


t

ie SECRET
a <4
Pages 203 and 204 relate to

&)
1 Moscow who was a target of KGB. KGB attempted

to lure him into downtown Moscow using SVETLANA IVANOVA, Tt
3}
was related that. NOSENKO state . refused her invita-

tions and KGB had no derogatory information regarding him,

It was also noted that during’a State Department security

interview Qitttes being intimate with TVANOVA at the

American House and at her apartment; that she had told him that

en
she was pregnant and asked for money for an abortion, q aaa

‘
COMMENT: CP. discussed with NOSENKO on

January 27, (N-113), and April 6, 1968, (N-177),

but he could furnish no additional information, -

Tt. is noted, however, that} _ Being State

Department interview on July 27, 1962, stated that 3

>

December 27, 1961, and was intimate with her in.

her apartment on approximately three occasions thereafte

~127 j
the SECRET

‘HW 50953 Docka:32318825 Page 72


‘any
O

SECRET
She told him she was pregnant about May 1, 1962,
and he was transferred from Moscow during that

month. NOSENKO transferred from the American

Embassy Section in early: January, 1962, and thus

would logically. not have knowledge a )
i intimacy with IVANOVA. cians

Yio. JOHN ABIDIAN
Pages 205-220 relate to’the Security Officer

JOHN ABIDTAN and the KGB. operations: against him,, NOSENKO

had furnished detailed information regarding this case which *
k

included data indicating that a female KGB agent TATYANA

FEDOROVICH was used to place "metka"’ (an odorless substance)

on. ABIDIAN's clothing, Later this substance was found on.

letters mailed by ABIDIAN and traced to him, It is stated

that ABIDIAN had no maid until 16 months after his arrival

in Moscow and FEDOROVICH did not become :employed. by him until

July, 1961, It_was conclu i therefore, that_FEDOROVICH could

in the interception Toe the letter mailed by ABIDTAN on. April 1,

Re SECRET

128

- : usu aeruee eer aa aie eae

| HW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 73



Tl SECRET

1961, and probably she was not yet employed at the hime of.
his mailing of a letter on July 2, 1961 he w

: The CTA paper also takes issue with NOSENKO's
statements regarding ABIDIAN's visit to a dead drop site
on December 30, 1961. NOSENKO claimed to have read the initial
surveillance report covering this visit, to have visited the
site himself and to have reviewed reports covering observation

of the site for approximately three months. Tt was. concluded

that NOSENKO. was not ABIDIAN's case officer, (XK)

e

COMMENT: | NOSENKO was interviewed concerning ABIDIAN on

May 1, 1968, (N-187), and stated that KGB knew that

(S :
— female employee of the American

Embassy, was ABIDIAN's mistress. TATYANA FEDOROVICH

was[ fai and was sent ta ABIDIAN's apartment |
4 a clean his apartment. This agent placed © :

"metka'! on his f@lothing as early as 1960. BOE

ABIDIAN was subsequently interviewed by a

representative of CIA and confirmed that this maid (Uy)

c

. 129

: : TP SECRET

-

‘ww 50953 Decta:32318825 Page 74
i


ye SECRET

disclosed that the name following number 33 was

&)

o_o following 34 was ee following

35 was A that following 36 was 6) :
TeFre other two names were. of KGB case

officers who NOSENKO stated were undoubtedly ‘the

5) :
» case officers of Ie CJ Acsenco stated that | Syl

these were four individuals of interest to PETROV

and the. 2nd Section was interested in placing
microphones against them, (This is discussed later 2 |

in this paper ao). New Information and as indicated « '

therein, 2), the ah been identified.

They were-in the USSR in 19617
‘S
yes had been in contact with components . !

of aed
The above information would appear to be.a a

plausible explanation as to how NOSENKO. came into

possession of the list of microphonés. ¥y : : H

136 ;
; ¢ SECRET

oa PEE EEE eee a ~

t
(HW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 75


ae SECRET ©
the Embassy. He furnished information possibly
pertinent to this matter on March 22, 1968, (N-168).

He stated that in 1961 the First Department had initiated

\ planning in connection with the establishment of an

|
|

| apartment across the street from the American Embassy

which was to contain some special.equipment. This

equipment was to be provided by the Department. of
Defense which would supply experts to ‘operate it. This

operation was discussed. with officers: of.,OTU and B

reference was made to checking on waves.or short
waves, The planning resulted from ‘coordination of
the coverage of all. western attaches under YEVGENIY
NIKOLAYEVICH ALESHIN, Deputy Chief of the lst
Department. who was supervising it. KOVSHUK, Chief
of the lst, Section did not handle it. In the late
1950's or early 1960's theyfist ee the 2nd

(s)
Department had found out Frat the C__itere

g
(iE zie ne monitoring :
was done from rel das a cottage owned (SQ
Ss - :

143 :
Ke SECRET

r

RW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 76


i Yor SECRET
cy
by the I. n 1961 discussicns were held

regarding checking of the fAmerican cottage as. well as

the American Embassy. | u)

1 NOSENKO also stated that the Ministry of

Defense had a permanent post behind the American’

Embassy which was not related to the above matter.
When NOSENKO went with VENYAMIN KOSI.OV to visit
surveillance posts of the lst Department,-7th
Directorate, located. around the American Embassy,

e

KOSLOV pointed out the building where. the Ministry. b,

of Defense monitoring post was located. This post

had been. set up prior. to 1961. x w
On March 26, 1968, (N-169),.NOSFNKO expressed

the opinion that the new installation which was

planned in 1961 was not related to either the 5

(2 eettecine or the permanent post of: the :

rare
Ministry of _ but. was a different kind of

technique. : ><

% 144
Ne SECRET

SEs.

r dl feeeteeaea :

j NW 50953 Docla:32318825 Page 77


i Ty ET
u
(ia. NOSENKO's. Knowledge of CIA Personnel ¢

Pages 240-248 relate to NOSENKO's knowledge of CIA *
pérsonnel within the American Embassy. It was noted that NOSENKO
claimed. that he would necessarily know whom the KGB knew or

suspected as CIA officers. NOSENKO had stated thatL NS)

was considered to be the CIA resident. iad no connection

with CIA.) ABIDIAN was considered a CIA officer on the basis of

his conduct. (He was a State Department officer who was utilized

by CIA and was, in effect, the CIA resident.) (ee) €)
=

was correctly identified as being connected with CIA. [fewrs ‘
powen EXO according to NOSENKO was suspected of being a CIA
officer, had no affiliation with CIA. The same was true of
RICHARD FUNKHAUSER, WILLIAM HORBALY was correctly, identified

by NOSENKO as being connected with CIA, as was GEORGE WINTERS. >7&.,

According to NOSENKO, STANLEY BROWN, 6):

s at
Fe PAUL GARBLER were not suspected by KGB. . (They

were CIA employees.) The paper noted that both{ 2,

GARBLER were known to .KGB as CIA.officers although this was

apparently unknown. to NOSENKO, _.GARBLER was known as a CIA officer

to GEORGE BLAKE. ye
145
fe SECRET

50953 Docld:32318825 Page 78



COMMENT :

S)
— connected with CIA despite the fact coverage

rf ae
who had been regarded by KGB as the CIA

ope SECRET

On Jaruary 27, 1968, (N-113), NOSENKO was shown
a list of names including some American and Soviet
employees of the American Embassy. He recognized the
name of RICHARD FUNKHAUSER, stated he was suspected of

connections with American intelligence and VYACHESLAV

ALEKSANDROVICH KUSKOV was working against him. Concerning
3)

‘S
the name Ihe stated that nce an

S)-
n the American: Fmbassy and !'mailed

letters". and was considered to be connected with

American intelligence 4 ee
4

In connection with NOSENKO's statements’ regarding
S)

t is suggested that the fact he replaced

resident, would be sufficient for KGB to consider that

of his activities disclosed no clandestine operations. Gr)

It is also noted that FAUL GARBLER did not. arrive
in Moscow until November 29, 1961. Information a

identifying him as an American intelligence A

Th SECRET

146

| NW 50953 Docld:32318825

Page 79


he SECRET

would tundoubtedly have been in possession of FCD.
but there is no assurance that it would have come to
NOSENKO's attention prior to his departure from the

Ist Section, lst Department, SCD in January, 1962.

Tt is suggested that FCD would have been very careful | 2
in disseminating information received from FCD agent :

GEORGE BLAKE 7 to BLAKE's apprehension by the

fe ( ig -

On page 248 it is stated that NOSENKO did not know i

[ee 3)
of eee with homosexual agents VOLKOV and

YEFREMOV in.1961 although NOSENKO claimed to have been their : ‘

case officer at that time, ; !

COMMENT : Elsewhere-in this paper NOSENKO's relations +

with these two agents is set forth in some detail. : ‘
NOSENKO stated that he possibly did not know of all :
contacts these homosexuals made with Americans. On : a
November 14, 1967, (N-22b), NOSENKO described in

5 5)
some detail the Case indicating that snene/M)

147
THe SECRET

| HW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 80
i


ae SECRET

5)
two. agents were used intoss] get compromising

photographs o The compromising materials
(6) z

were furnished to the 2nd Section of the 1st

Department which recruited him when he returned

to the USSR in 1960 or 1961: rerRov, Chief of °
the 2nd Section, told NOSENKO chae[ fea ne aS
admitted connections. with American Intelligence;
that his task was to find Russians for future
recruitment. The 2nd Section was preparing some
individuals (to’serve as double agents)... The. ‘
case officer was VADIM uprtoway Ht

The fact that the 2nd Section was handling
the case in 1961 may well explain why NOSENKO would

Lod © i
not be aware of 196i|@oneaces with these H

two homosexual agents. & : .

[16. NOSENKO's Travel to Cuba] wy)

On page .254 it is stated that NOSENKO's planned trip

to the United. States and his travel’ to. Cuba damaged his claim
that he was supervising operations against Embassy code clerks

in 1960, It was indicated that with. active operations going 6 (WY)

148
i SECRET

‘yw 50953 Docta:32318825 Page 81
i


e
oS

he SECRET

COMMENT : On November 4, 1967, (N-10a), NOSENKO furnished
basically the same information concerning the Bulgarian
trip. set forth in the CIA paper. The fact that there :
was no apparent necessity ‘for the Bulgarian Minister

of Interior to request a KGB officer for consultation

is not a reasonable basis for indging this account. to

be untrue, xu)

fia. Transfer to 7th Department] %(w

On page 260 it is stated that NOSENKO dated his

transfer to. the 7th Department from the lst Department as cy
occurring before the defection of GOLITZYN which he dated as
mid-January, 1962, despite being advised that the. correct date
was December 16, 1961/9r® (U) : -
COMMENT ; NOSENKO during interview on March 6, 1968,
(N-157), recalled that KGB had sent a cable to >
Helsinki after GOLITZYN's defection instructing that
the residency make contact vinf——"f warn
him. NOSENKO and KOVSHUK. contacted TARABRIN of :
FCD to arrange for the cable to be sent.. KOVSHUK 4

150
He SECRET

| HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 82



Nu

a ¥ SECRET.

and NOSENKO were Chief and Deputy Chief of Ist
Section, lst Department. It appears that his

previous recollection of transfer before GOLITZYN's

defection was in error, %(Y)
ye. NOSENKO's Knowledge off(L___] i) :

On page 26] it ie stated that NOSENKO's apparent

3)

nd. KOSOLAPOV's

ignorance of KOVSHUK's relationship with
SF

connection with ie his contention that he would have! -

known of all KGB recruitment attempts. 2 4

COMMENT: During the April 10,.1968, (N-178), interview,*

‘
NOSENKO. stated that KUSKOV had the file oC

was che ——f visor at the Embassy. He advised;

he never heard: anything.particular about {& :

With regard tol IOSENKO on April 6, 1968,

i
(N-177), stated KOSOILAPOV had his file; however, NOSENKO

insisted that he had no knowledge of KOSOLAPOV's trip

to Helsinki in connection wi oe he would

have known about it if anything important developed,

It is noted. that Cys any recruitment
* . = s
‘ approach.
( 151
e SECRET

-

(NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 83



THe SECRET

On April 22, 1967, (N-184), NOSENKO stated
that he could not make a flat statement that he

would have known of any teerui tm in. the American

Embassy during the 1955-59 period but believed he

would have heard of them. He would have known: of

any such recruitments in 1960-61. He believed he
would also have known of any recruitments in the
1962-63 period because he saw GRYAZNOV Frequgiely
and GRYAZNOV. talked freely because NOSENKO helped Aa
him advance from Senior Case Officer in January, 1962,

to Deputy Chief of Section 1,. then Chief of Section 1,

and then Deputy Chief of Department 1 about August is
or September, 196348) de (y on

Tn view of NOSENKO's stated knowledge of _ 8)
anf the officers who had. their cases ands, '

since there is no evidence that either was the re

of a recruitment approach or other important :

development ,: it is submitted that his lack of knowledge /3f
: 7 452 ;

{
% E : '
- SECRET : j

) i

| NW 50953 Docla:32318825 Page 84


rh SECRET
of KOVSHUK's. relationship withL___}ra of

KOSOLAPOV's trip to Helsinki does not refute his
contention that he would have known of all important

developments pertaining to the Ist Section, lst

e
» Department in 1960-61 me

F. Assignment to the 7th Department WE
u
—-_January, 1962. - January, 1964 yh (4)

Pages 263-333 pertain. to NOSENKO's. claims of
assignment to the 7th Department during 1962-64, first as ad
Section Chief. of the American-British Commonwealth Section
to July, 1962, and thereafter.as Deputy Chief of the 7th
Department until his defection. It was concluded his claims

are not credible. WA(u pip?

p. NOSENKO's Substitute as Chief, i

On page 265 it is stated that NOSENKO claimed he had ©»

no Deputy Section Chief and did not indicate who was assigned

his duties in his absence. MK) (u)

COMMENT ; On July’ 3, 1968, (N-207), NOSENKO specifically

? a U,
stated that V. G. DERA was the officer whom he dentgratoay

153 : :
ir SECRET :

(NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 85


‘NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 86

cy
oS

ia Ve SECRET
to act.as Section Chief during his absence. He )
also.utilized NOSKOV in this capacity on occasion, ¥

3. -NOSENKO' s Contacts =) @)
©)

On: page 266 in discussing aie Ee case

5
it is-stated that Sy he met NOSENKO in Odessa in
February, 1962, which NOSENKO flatly denies. aeys,
COMMENT : On November 4, 1967, -(N-10b), NOSENKO wrote

concerning mel Pee a

to the USSR in 1962 with’a group of ‘correspondents

a

and."T'-have seen him twice. In:March, 1963, ‘Artur'*

(Lon the ship 'Olympia' wf? Odessa, where

J flew and have seen him." . Whether NOSENKO saw him

in Odessa in February, 1962, has not. been clarified Sly

¥ vorxov ana[_————S)

page 267 it is stated that. NOSENKO.is apparently”

uninformed regarding the use of VOLKOV in a’ KGB. entrapment

operation against American tewets_—___]s July,
: S)
a : : fie
any

he SECRET



as SECRET

COMMENT : This has not been clarified but as indicated
above, NOSENKO stated that VOLKOV and YEFREMOV may
have had. contacts with Americans without advising

© ;
him, On July 27, 1968, (n-212),[__‘d ame was

included in a list displayed to NOSENKO. He failed

to recognize it. ts) a.

fs. MARINA RYTOvA] fe) (y)

On page 268 it is stated that NOSENKO claims. that
he was officially. registered. as the case officer of MARINA
RYTOVA ‘until his defection in 1964 although she had obtained

a job at the Communist Farty Central Committee school and had

ceased all agent work. 4 (y)

COMMENT : On September 2, 1968, .(N-218), NOSENKO
stated that although RYTOVA was’ no longer being
used, her file had not been retired and he was
still considered the case officer until his
defection. (9) JP (4 A

: 155

7h SECRET

oe

}
\ NW 50953 Doclda:32318825 Page 87



4 THe SECRET

Pages 268-272 relate to the KGB entrapment of | U

Dre is. stated on page 272 that although ae)

apparently confirmed NOSENKO's role, NOSENKO's version of

the case is incompatible with what must have been the actual

time frame, It was pointed out that according to his version,
within five days .of (Peetwai KGB would have discovered
he was a homosexual, concluded he was a threat, after intercepting
his letters, and arranged his entrapment. The rapid pace of .
events suggests that his homosexuality was already. known: to k

KGB. -Therefore, NOSENKO's participation contradicts his

assertions about the timing of his transfer from the American

Department, Qe : 2!

COMMENT :. On November 7, 1967, and March 6 and 7, .1968,
(N-15, N-157, N-159), NOSENKO discussed —
case, furnishing basically the same. information
previously furnished. He added. that DERA was. the

case officer ifor this case and DERA had. posed as. the

‘ Administrator of the hotel-in verenl ley registeredigh
7 Ss

156 :
if SECRET

uv

1

t
if
i
i

HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 88


O

a re SECRET. -
took the "akt" from him and then brought. him to
NOSENKO who obtained the agreement not to criticize

the Soviet Uni on

On September 2, 1968, (N-218), NOSENKO stated

that the homosexual. agents YEFREMOV and VOLKOV

spotted ae

the same time his letters were intercepted... KGB «

on after. his arrival. At» about

had no advance information concerning his homosexual ity })
Considering NOSENKO's limited role in’ this matter

and his claimed position as Chief: of Section, it seems

that his. recall of this matter is adequate. With regard

to the rapid pace of the operation, it is believed that

KGB is certainly. capable of. moving rapidly when : -

necessary. NOSENKO's account does. not appear

implausible. Qu . . ai . i
; \ oe
On pages 272-273 the se is L.
|

discussed. It is stated that NOSENKO's ignorance off _{S) :

Bible smuggling ‘and the fact that his activities had been wh. : i

157
Te SECRET

= sseesreseseseeraee a _

(HW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 89


TS
Alls

Te SECRET

publicized in the Soviet press indicates that he had no
intimate connection with this case (QE ‘
COMMENT : ~ On May 25, 1968, (N-198), NOSENKO related that

when he returned to the 7th Department as Chief of.

Section 1 he was shown, at his request, materials

“S.
on Section 1. cases which included che[__ Bese.
4)

was suspected of intelligence connections;

however, NOSENKO disagreed with this conclusion.
(6 :
Arthouse involved with .a girl he carefully 4-

turned off the lights during intimacies and was not :
successfully photographed; he drank with her in
restaurants and gave pifts.to Baptists; he had
indicated he would return to the USSR and consideration”
was given to covering him again at that time x
NOSENKO ide a fied the photograph. which was
supplied by fof the girl with whom he was involved,

LUDMILA BUGAEVA, and said he had seen her a.couple of

times. % i i
% “158 ‘
He SECRET

|

| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 90


a
>

74 SECRET

Considering NOSENKO's. position and connection

: 1
with this case, his recall appears adequate. (RY

[?. “KGB Officers in Geneva] (®) (wy)

tages 279-280 discuss NOSENKO's comments regarding

KGR officers within the Soviet delegation to Geneva in 1962.
It was: noted he identified only OLEG GRINEVSKIY as having a
connection with KGB although he described A. K. KISLOV and V. G.
FILATOV. Tt was stated that CIA tentatively identified all three
of these Soviets as KGB officers. KISLOV was observed in KGB +

‘

operational activity in Washington and Moscow; FILATOV, served ‘

as an alternate contact in France with the KGB agent. GEORGE

PAQUES. es [oe that GRINEVSKIY handled :
i |
» Foon pase 280.18 is noted that NOSED“:

reported in 1964 for the first time that. KISILOV had been a

KGP operational. contact in the U. S$. and had been introduced *,

to NOSENKO by a. KGB officer in Moscow prior. to their departure

for Geneva in 1962, K

—- 159

we SECRET

E5-6F 520-49

| aoe : ini sissies

HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 91



ae SECRET
was a Section 2 case, but as a part of his duties in Geneva
ate counterintelligence officer he was to direct BELITSKIY
only if the Americans should make ‘contact with him, It was
stated that ARTEMEV, contrary to NOSENKO's claims, was not
inexperienced and had been involved with a series of CIA American
tourist agents in the Soviet Union of which NOSENKO was unaware
although it occurred in 1958-59. It was also stated that NOSENKO
had limited knowledge of the BELITSKIY case and it ie concluded

that he did not exercise any supervisory functions, EC)

COMMENT ¢ One of the CIA tourist agents involved with baa
(3 ‘
ARTEMEV was CR was in Russia in
1958. NOSENKO has advised that coverage of (S)

was started by 7th Department but lst Department took

: e
the case over after{_____fas observed to mail a

letter. Since NOSENKO was in 7th and ARTEMEV in the

lst, it is not unreasonable NOSENKO did not know of :°

ARTEMEV' s comnect ion lg] x

Another CIA tourist agent involved with |

ARTEMEV traveled on a diplomatic passport. It is\XU)

SECRET

\ NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 92



TQP SECRET

NOSENKO stated he was thankful at the time to the

Americans for continuing the BELITSKIY operation
although he had exposed it in 196209) u)

"On August 1, 1968, (N-213), NOSBNKO stated

ARTEMEV was selected as Security Officer for the

delegation because he knew English and French. The
2nd Section did not have anyone with language
capabilities. This may explain why an officer of
the Ist Section, would have been given the task of

directing BELITSKIY in Geneva rather than an officer 4

of the 2nd Section which handled the case. It is also

noted that BELITSKIY was the subject of investigation,
However, NOSENKO in the current interviews does not

claim that ARTEMEV was inexperienced or that he

~Le) ae

nm page 290 it is stated that NOSENKO was unaware

ARTEMEV's handling of BELITSKIY. ‘AC

tha had corresponded with a girl friend in

. : s) ‘
Me SECRET

|
| aw 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 93


(s Ne SECRET

and that she had spent a week with{___ i Moscow during
which the recruitment attempt was made by KGB od
| COMMENT: On September 2, 1968, (N-218),SNOSENKO stated

that he did not know about the girl friend “Lie

He said this was probably known to KRUPNOV, his

subordinate, who was the case officer. Considering
NOSENKO's limited participation in the case, his lack

of knowledge of the girl friend does not seem unusual. |

fio. PAVEL FEDOROVICH suena] a) (vy) a

On page 291 it is concluded that NOSENKO did not

direct the investigation of PAVEL FEDOROVICH SHAKHOY in Geneva

in 1962, The SHAKHOV case is discussed on pages 276-278 and

it is noted therein that NOSENKO claimed SHAKHOV was not and 7

never had been a KGB Tt was stated that RASTVOROV had

identified him as a KGB officer, PETROV and DERYABIN reported 5 i
that his photograph was familiar, BOURBON identified him as an

"employee" of KGB, an FB{ source said he was a pure diplomat and

cme he was still under suspicion. RY)
ai

: : 165
ie SECRET

!

‘HW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 94


agent rather than an officer of KGB.) PA u

COMMENT:

cy

)

he SECRET

Ss,
(Tt is noted that —— SHAKHOV as an

. NOSENKO was interviewed concerning SHAKHOV on

February 24, 1968, (N-108), and related that he was a |

diplomat in the Ministry of Foreign Affeirs from the

1930's and before that had worked for the Young
Communist League in Leningrad. In the 1940's he

had worked for the Soviet "Embassy" in the USA and

was an FCD agent with the code name "RICHARD". In the
1950's KGB stopped work with him as an agent and put his

file in the archives. He participated in many meetings |

and conferences relating to disarmament. In the late
1950's KGB started a "checking file" on him because cee
he was suspected of connections with American
Intelligence and there was a "signal" indicating - 3

a connection with the American diplomat is)

Because of these suspicions, in 1962 a plan was prepared

to check him and NOSENKO was sent to Geneva as securi ye

166
i SECRET

(HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 95


nf SECRET

This suspicious behavior was somehow connected with

4)
{i o had worked in Moscow and who was known

as an active intelligence officer. KGB decided

SHAKHOV must be an agent or contact of( 5)

In addition, SHAKHOV was close to one

(a 6)

employed by the United Nations) who was suspected

of connection with American, British,and Israeli
Intelligence and was also at one time connected with
Soviet Intelligence. Investigation of SHAKHOV had -
been initiated before 1962, possibly 1960 or 1961.

After NOSENKO's 1962 report regarding coverage in

Geneva, PETR IVANOVICH MASSYA was later sent to | |
Geneva with a delegation and also checked SHAKHOV

negatively. x

NOSENKO commented that, although the file wa

closed, any KGB officer who would be present at any.
conference attended by SHAKHOV would be told to keep

_an eye on him. Also SHAKHOV would never be trust

. . 168

HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 96


Ye SECRET

H and would not be reinstated as an agent of KGB. Ru)
With regard to the identification of SHAKHOV
by the defectors mentioned above it is noted that

only 5) NOSENKO were in_a position to have _

i officer. — mC) iE
os ; & SG

On page 296-297 the Gase is discussed.

3 : ;
NOSENKO claimed [egg the Soviet Union in 1958-59,.

4
was placed under KGB. surveillance, was observed in-a Ministry

of Defense automobile and GRU later admitted to KGB he was of
interest to GRU. Subsequently in 1962 while NOSENKO was reviewing !

5)
a list of foreign visitors he or eee and prohibited ~

additional KGB investigation because of GRU's interest. The paper
asserted char feed no valid U. S. passport between 1940 and
June, 1961, and if he visited the Soviet Union during that :
period it was not as an American tourist under his true name.

Consequently he could ‘not then have been the tourist target of t (Sk

a 169
7 off SECRET

‘nw 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 97


P SECRET .
7th Department as NOSENKO claimed. If NOSENKO was mistaken and
was referring to (fe visit he could not have noticed
his name while reviewing tourist’ lists because NOSENKO was in

the American Department at that time. #2

| COMME! This case has not been clarified but no

ulterior motive is seen in NOSENKO's insistence ;

that the first. incident occurred in 1958-59, if it |
were not true. His insistence can only raise {I
questions concerning the accuracy of his |

recollections. ra AU)) 5 ‘
12. LEE HARVEY OSWALD
On page 309 it is stated that NOSENKO's apparent.

ignorance of LEE HARVEY OSWALD's communications with the Soviet

ean

\\
MV
Embassy in Washington (in efforts to return to-the USSR in 1963) :
discredits his claim to complete knowledge of all aspects of the
KGB relationship wich oswatp, %&(v) ii

COMMENT : This matter has not been completely clarified
“ although NOSENKO's lack of cognizance of this matter

()

i would not appear to sétiously discredit him, =
% y :

170

‘HW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 98


i February 20,.1964, that the: KGB resident in New York had

= : we SECRET

With further reference to the 1957-59
cases, NOSENKO. stated on-July 27, 1968, (N-212)
that ‘there was no time limitation put on BOBKOV's

request. He wanted e list of: recruitments

and. the list was-prepared from available files,

recollections of officers ete, without’ reference

. to year of recruitment. Ku)
jas. Recall Telegram / {u)

Pages 324 and 325 relate to the recall telegram and
it is noted that. NOSENKO alleged that a telegram had been

reéeiived bythe KGB Residency in Geneva on February 4, 1964,

ordering NOSENKO to return to Moscow. -Eventually NOSENKO
retracted this assertion and stated that there was no recall

telegram; that he invented’the telegram to hasten his defection.

It is’ stated that

ecial inteilligenceNloes not confirm the
a

existence of the recall telegram but, SCOTCH reported on

advised members of the Residency on ‘February 18 or 19, 1964,

concerning thé contént, of telegrams received from KGB a

ae ‘ Ne SECRET
~ 178

re ctanit

HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 99


SECRET

other officers of 7th Department examined

the document to assess the effect its dis-’.

closure to the Americans by GOLITZYN would

have on 7th Department ec cases y4(u)
_NOSENKO described the has as

ten or twelve pages in length and stated

it contained the names of several foreigners

against whom 7th Department was working or

planned to work, He volunteered that the

7) eC one of the names in

the document and stated he did not think =
it contained the names of any recruited
agents but only suspects or those 7th

Department was interested in recruiting

in the future. Be

It is clear from the above that

NOSENXO not only had knowledge of data

by American Intelligence, but _he also
AG
he SECRET

183

i

t
| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 100



Cc O

=u ; TYP SECRET

document for i(s)

However, he continued as a member of the

Komsomol until the year was up and kept the
ecard for some period after his birthday. &
~NOSENKO described the Komsomol unit as

very small, consisting of approximately 17

people. The Secretaries of most of the

Departments were females, Dues were collected

every month and there was some type of meet-

ing every month, NOSENKO did not remember ‘,
the name of the Secretary of the KG Komsomol =

but stated that he dealt’ with MARAT SCKOLOV,

a member of the Collegium of the Komsomol _
_ Bureau who was supervising the Xomsomol organ-

ization in the soo LM 4) ° i
i it

On April 22, 1968, (N-184), NOSENKO |

stated he was chosen as Secretary of the

SCD Komsomol Unit at a meeting in aaauaa), (¥ .

i
Me SECRET Ne

188

i eee

i
| NW 50953 Doclda:32318825 Page 101


C 7 oO
* SECRE’

previously failed to acknowledge that he knew some of these
individuals. NOSENKXO's current reactions to their names or

photographs are set forth below( (4)

S) 4
On Décember 2, 1967, (N-52), NOSENKO was shown a

5
list of names which included [ ae said he knew

(jc was a Deputy to the Chief of the Special s
Section, SCD but he did not know( i ;

Ga ered

On February 15, 1968, (N-135), NOSENKO said he knew

age 362

ra

of some ZAYTESEVs but did not know this one whose photograph «4

was shown |¥) x (u)

On April 26, 1968, (N-185), NOSENKO said@

was well known but he did not know him personally. % (RQ)

2 FIRST NAME UNKNORN) 5)
Page 372 poe

NOSENKO made no comment when this name was mentioned

to him on’ November 14:(N-23), and. December 2, 1967, css (By (4)

: : Ne SECRET :
7 ;
i

198 : i

| MW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 102


C O
Ne SECRET
& &)

NOSENKO made no comment regarding this name on

October 31, (N-3), and November 20 (N-33) O6a{u)

VLADIMIR TULAYEV y,(. ‘
Page 373 B a u)

On December 21, 1967, (N-77), NOSENKO did not recog-

age

nize this name but leter recalled there was an Intourist trans-

lator by the name of ruta (Spa

On February 14, 1968, (N-133), NOSENKO, when shown

this photograph stated he had seen this person once or twice.
4

He did not recall his name but said he was ayoung officer of

FCD who took English examinations with NOSERKO 90)

age S$) -
On December 15, 1967, (N-73), NOSENXO did not

recognize the photograph of this individual. He said he knew

his father and knew there was a son but he had never seen himy
ATOLIY GOLITZYN

fi ge 383 a u)

On November 6, 1967, (N-13), NUSENKO stated that he

_Was not acquainted with GOLITZYN and did not talk to na)

199 Ye secre

oo r—srh—hdLclhsds_—aer a ee

(NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 103


TRP SECRET
GOLIT4YN did talk to various ether SCD officers. %(4)
3
Page 389 ee
On July 20, 1968, (N-211), although he had not
previously recogni zed fHotograph when displayed to
him, NOSENKO stated he thought this photograph was familiar.

It is considered possible that he recalled the photograph

from its previous showing to him. %

[8. KGB Dining Room§) a0)

On page 375 Cin Annex A) it is noted SCOTCH stated
that NOSENKO knew many of the Chiefs and Deputies of KGE
Directorates and Departments and would have knowledge of
KGE hierarchy by reason of access to a dining room reserved

for Chiefs and Deputies of Departments. The paper stated

that NOSENKO never referred to the dining rooms until : |

January - March, 1965, when he volunteered that he had eaten

occasionally in the Chief's dining room, ¥{ uw)

CO)

On November 24, 1967, (N-39), while : :

discussing VASILIY ROMANOVICH SITNIKOV whose (AU)
N : eeceaet i SECRET ;
| ; 200
\ :

|
|
H ee ee ee ene
1
i

|

HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 104


{SECRET

current interrogations have clarified practically all of

these cases A) fy UW
ae 7s ee &

Page 399 refers to a case involving ACTOR (or

It indicates that NOSENKO said he was a valuable FCD agent who

traveled overtly to Western Europe and thereafter clandestinely
to the USSR. pe

COMMENT: This case was referred to in notes brought

out by NOSENKO in 1964, FBI translated the

name in these notes as "EXTER." On December 8,
1967, (N-60), NOSENKO translated the name "ECTOR" a
but acknowledged it could be "ACTOR." He related
that he had noted this name when a representative

of the FCD had complained to the 7th Department,

SCD, that this name had been included in a

communication sent by Intourist through the

open matls to various Soviet stations abroad.

FCD was afraid its valuable agent would be

compromised., This protest took place in 1963 5 u)

: if 5 SECRET

—

to

(AW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 105


a
C 0
ee 1% SECRET

NOSENKO believed the agent. had travelled
to the USSR just prior to the protest. 5s (YW)
The translation of the name as "ECTOR"

by NOSENKO has produced a more likely suspect

2)
than! eferred to in the
CLA Paper. This individual is

5)

} born i)
oe CY was a communications technician

with the United States Air Force in Germany

from April: 1957, to March, 1961.

Ss
I Qoortea that a Soviet officer

with whom she was in contact requested that ‘

she obtain biographic data concerning various

individuals in West Berlin, one of whom was

l aCe appears that this ~

request was made of out February,

1961. Investigation disclosed that he is
‘currently an employee of NSA but no record

of travel since his return to the United States

in March, 1961, has been rocated. A) t

c Ne SECRET
;

205

‘HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 106


-
-fO

rs

: a ; Ye SECRET

yC px

On page 402 it is indicated that NOSENKO provided

no source for his information regarding Bae

COMMENT : On November 14, 1967, (N-22c), NOSENKO

stated he had heard from GRYAZNOV that the

(S,
Lst Department suspected a

homosexual and planned “active! work against
Bi

him, +A

On page 403 it is stated that NOSENKO did not indicate
the source of his information of iO xs) “

On August 1, 1968, (N-213), NKO stated

that oF in the USSR several times. :

He was first of interest to the 7th Depart-
ment in 1957 or 58 but later in 1960, when

he came in connection with the rowers case,

he was of interest to lst Department. e

: 4 SECRET

206

| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 107


. po ®

MR SECRET

It is noted that NOSENKO was in the

7th Department from 1955 to 1960 and in

the lst Department-in 1960-61, KY

1s

On page 407 it is stated NOSENKO did not indicate

the source or date he acquired information 7 Eee

COMMENT : On February 16, 1968, (N-141), NOSENKO

re
stated that he remembered the name 7 ne (S)

as an auto tourist handled by the 6th Section,

7th Department, who was arrested in 1960 or

1961. He could recall nothing nore AW

po}

On page 409 it is stated that NOSENKO has not explained

why he learned of the Fase only in 1963 when he

was reviewing the files of VOLKOV and YEFRENOV although{_[S)

was in the USSR in 1959 when they were agents of NOSENKO, <

; ae SECRET

es suet ana Rene conan aoaoa step ecerransts ed eeesfousoesenecarohateeetcee Cette enasssssssteedessossssstensstssteeenteesy)

| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 108



C ae

7% SECRET
On February 27, 1968, (N-147), NOSENKO
: S
said he remembered the name of as a

tourist, possibly a father and son but could

recall nothing more. (It is noted that
Ee 5,
NOSENKO's notes in which the name &)

included have been destroyed BK

 ¢ C9)

‘On page 410 it is stated that NOSENKO indicated no
source for his information on| a] x»)

COMMENT: On March 18, 1965, (N-165)-, NOSENXO

stated that he got this information from

VLADIMIR -KRIVOSHET . ¥(¥)
& Ll)

On page 413 it is stated that NOSENKO claimed to be

S
in the 7th Department at the ee a

target of the lst Section, lst Department. Lee

3 On December 12, 1967, (N-65), NOSENKO

stated that’ in Jyne, 1963, GRYAZNOV of si)

Ne SECRET

ee eens oe a eeaceita de eve anRS aa ERE EPPS TEE OOD EPR SPONSn a SOTA ECEE eo eas eae sarod Eeaeusennanaa agseseaneapetanascnnaaseeCnaaae)

BW 50953

Docld:32318825 Page 109


C oO
tye SECRET

Section, lst Department, had requested
NOSENKO's (7th Department) assistance in
obtaining a hotel room for a homosexual

3
agent who was acquainted, with| Wace

. Section desired to obtain photographs through

the infrared process of the meeting between

, the agent ena____ Its) ¥
18. [iuvin Garvin) Kantor] §y @)

On page 416 it is stated that NOSENXO did not explain
\
why the case on{MARVIN (MELVIN) KANTOR s included among cases
he noted as having occurred while he was in the Embassy Section®
iy

in 1960-61,

As, indicated previously, NOSENKO related

that in 1963 he was requested by a Deputy -

Chief of SCD to prepare a paper regarding
agents of the 7th Department. NOSENKO in x
turn requested three of the Section Chiefs

to give him information, Information of}

i ™ SECRET
209

HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 110



Co iQ

TO SECRET
Che
. fxaxtor] As furnished by EVGENI NOSKOV,
Senior Case Officer, Section 1, 7th
Department, who was acting in absence
of VATALI DERA, Chief of the Section.
This-listing of cases was not confined

to the 1960-61 period but included recruit-

ments in other years Wf es
i ns

On page 417 it is stated that NOSENKO's sourcing

of the lead pertaining ls not been estab-
s
lished. a cf

COMMENT : On November 6, 1967, (N-12a), NOSENKO related

that in 1961 or 1962 this individual had con-
tacted Intourist with a proposal to send

tourists to the USSR. This, of course, was H

within the responsibilities of 7th Department

with which NOSENKO was affiliated in 1962. %

ko. 8)

On page 417 it is noted that NOSENKO saw aa 6

i P SECRET :
210

; NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 111


c oo ©

TAP SECRET

pertaining to| [shiy when he was reviewing files

of VOLKOV and YEFREMOV although he was their case officer when

they were in touch with in 1959. we
©)

COMMENT ; It is noted that NOSENKO's notes on

Co Tite been destroyed. This case has not

yet been discussed with NOSENXO for clarification

2)

On page 419 it is stated that NOSENXO claims personal :
knowledge sef Seeing with agent[__| a
ratnen, although he was in the American Embassy , i

Section at the time. Iss “

COMMENT; On September 2, 1968, (N-218), NOSENKO

stated that he had heard of this meeting through

another officer. The incident happened after 7 |
i
|

NOSENXO had turned her over to another case officer. a0)

CUCU )

On page 420 it is stated that NOSENKO did not indi-°

: i
cate the source of his information ee ae. Fah
os nk “SECRET

vaes

‘aw 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 112


c 0

YP SECRET

COMMENT +

NOSEN&O's notes which pertain to
have been destroyed, On May 23, 1968, (N-197),
NOSENKO stated that this case happened in 1959

before he went to the lst Department in 1960.

2
VLADIMIR IVANOV was working against nd.

consideration was given to using GRUSHA, who had

been publicly compromised in the United States in
the operation. The idea was to photograph[ Is)
with GRUSHA as a means of exerting pressure cn
2) a later time. This was a 7th Depart-
ment case while NOSENXO was in the 7th Department. ou)

ele)

On page 421 it is stated that NOSENXO did not indicate

the source of information on lye

COMMENT: -On December 5, 1967, (N-54), NOSENKO stated

_that the information Was obtained from the |

special file of the 7th Department in 1569. (9

On page 422 it is stated that NOSENXO did not relate

Hee the case to his 1962-64 service in the 7th Peparinc dN :
% S i
| fe SECRET
H
i

HW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 113


ae
c O
Ww SECRET

COMMENT: On November 28, (N-46), NOSENXO stated that
this case was included among the notes furnished
to him by EVGENI NOSXOV acting for Section

Chief VITALI DERA in 1963 (as noted above) gil

£1.

On page 422 it is stated that NOSENKO did not
indicate his original source of information a)

On March 18, 1968, (N-165), NOSENKO stated

“that he did not recall how he learned about

this case but it happened after he left the

lst Department in January, 1962. 2 u) 4

a)

On page 423 it is stated that NOSENKG did not é
indicate the source of his information oo)

COMMENT: On November 10, 1967, (N- 184) » NOSENKO a

ystated chat “fas in the USSR as a tourist

in 1959, and an agent of the 3rd Section, TR

We SECRET

213

| HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 114


ice Ke SECRET

Department, had relations with her at the
National Hotel which were photographed. ay
In 1962 or 1963 NOSENKO heard from

GRYAZNOV that she was again in Moscow [as

5) at Alle
md was in "close relations

with a foreign Negro. 1st Department was

planning to approach her and, if successful,

to use her against American code clerks pyro) | a
aC) : ;

On page 424 it is stated that NOSENKO did not relate *
4

5) :
the se to his 7th Department service and did not

indicate the source’ of le

COMMENT + NOSENKO stated on November 28, 1967,

(N-46), that this was one of the cases fur- |

nished by EVGENI NOSKOV-in 1963 acting

for VITALI DERA as indicated above. S(u)

On page 425 it is stated that NOSENKO did not recal YX)

214 SECRET

‘HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 115


<)

Ne SECRET
case. ax ;
Ss): 3

from whom he had heard about the|

COMMENT + On March 5, 1968, (N-155), NOSENKO

stated he saw the file on this case. The
file was still in the ist Section, lst

960 Hau)

Department, i

©

On page

the source of his

427 it is stated that NOSENKO did not indicate

information onl

ol

November 28, 1967, (N-46), NOSENKO

i

ENT:

On

advised this was from NOSKOV as indicated

above, (30 : | 7
Oye

On page 428 it is stated that NOSENKO did not

his source of information ee ie

On January 10, 1968, (N-91), NOSENK

indicate

recalled this case while discussing cases
where KGB or GRU officers came under suspicion.

He stated that 7th Directorate 7

|
a SECRET

215

| MW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 116


€ ee

: : IAP SECRET
HP cone
detected In contact with a KGE-officer. °

Such contact had not been previously approved.

This was reported to the Chairman through
regular channels and there was a scandal in

ScD. GRIBANOV personally reprimanded the

On page 430 it is stated that NOSENKO did not indicate

his source of information 2 a :

COMMENT : It is noted that NOSENKO's notes pertaining
cold ave been destroyed; however, on
November 16, 1967, (N-25), NOSENXO stated that
this case’occurred in 1959 when he was Deputy

Chief of the lst Section, 7th Department.

The case officer for Was MICHAEL i
VINOGRADOV, On March 29, 1968, (N-174),
NOSENKO stated that the Chief of 7th

Department, DUBAS, had one or two meetings

with him. He was considered to be ok

216

nw 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 117


C fe)
Xe SECRET

but NOSENKO did not know if he ever worked

for Kes. / Pf)
(2 es S

On page 431 it is stated that NOSENXO did not indicate

his source of information 2) | a

ASE)

NE: On February 27, 1968, (N-147), NOSENKO stated

that he remembered this name and that she was
not an American. He said the 2nd Section of

the 7th Department was working against her.

s in the USSR January - February 1960) (5
; 4

Se

On page 433 it is stated that NOSENXO did not indicate

the source of his information onf |. SS . i

COMMENT : On November 28, 1967, (N-46), NOSENKO stated

that this case was among the cases furnished

to him in 1963 by EVGENI NOSKOV, acting for

VITALI DERA as noted above. (BY ce
; i.
; ;

_ P SECRET

217

{| MW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 118


Ye SECRET

(a)

On page 434.it is stated NOSENXO has not indicated
thé source of his information on 5) iad

This was also one of the cases fur-

nished NOSENKO by EVGENI NOSKOV as noted

crove. (%(u)
EC i)

On page 435 it is stated that NOSENKO did not indicate

the source of his information o s)=8

On November 25, 1967, (N-41), NOSENKO stated =
that they were auto tourists who were caught by i
the 7th Department engaging in intelligence
activities but the case was taken over by the

lst Department when they visited the USSR in

1961. NOSENKO was Deputy Chief of the Ist

Section at that time. KOSOLAPOV, who worked

closely with NOSENKO, was directly involved in

the case (» ov)
Me SECRET

218

i
| HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 119


[xv. NEW CASES AND NEW OR CONFIRMATORY maroniatron! ew

T&R SECRET

Information set forth above regarding the cases
discussed in the CIA paper has clearly indicated that the
current series of interrogations ‘of NOSENKO in 1967 and
1968 have been ituch more thorough and have produced

voluminous information clarifying data obtained from him

in previous interviews. Of particular significance,

however, in addition to that set forth above is information
obtained curing the current series of interviews which is
completely new. Some of the information relates to new cases
and some of it is new information on cases mentioned previously.”
Set forth below is a summary of the. most significant data ' '
in these categories and additional new and confirmatory data

obtained during the current interrogation. This material not

only suggests that the previous interviews were inadequate

but also appears significant in assessing the bona fides of

NOSENKO (eeu \) p

A. ° New Cases &

Coe
5 , ae

ny SECRET
219

ace en on el

; MW 50953

Doclda:32318825 Page 120


C =e

Me SECRET

people of interest to PETROV of the 2nd Section. These

; 3
names were nd {s)

The name A. A. MIKHAILOV was listed beside the name of ie)

end Y. E. CHERNETSOV was listed beside the name (2)

NOSENKO stated that these were the case officers handling

cases off ha CHP rites marks under the name

CHERNETSOV suggested that he also was handling the cases nee

involving che[ [fae the bottom of the sheet was ‘a name

and some numbers which NOSENKO said was the name "ZAITSEV" and

a KGB telephone number. A

This is new information and so far as is know

. Ly

this material had not heretofore been observed or translated

by Gra fe] Pu) :
' Investigation has disclosed that —1 probably

3) i z

identical wit who was in the USSR in connection

with the "Plastics, USA Exhibit" in 1961, which was under the

auspicies of usta.)

s) : i
CR. eo to be identical witha -

man and wife who in applications for passports in April, 1961,

indicated they planned to depart about April 20, 1961, for “JK

He SECRET
221

{NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 121


©

OY

TRP SECRET

business trip of four weeks to Italy, Germany, the Soviet ‘Union
and England, A subsequent passport application filed by
Cheated that he was in Moscow from May 20-29,

1961, for "USIA." Inquiry at USIA disclosed co) ©

was given a contract on April 13, 1961, to design, produce

‘S)
and install the exhibit, a the Soviet Union.

He was instructed, however, on October 20, 1961, te stop ‘work

on the exhibit and travel expenses of $1660 submitted by him
were disallowe
On July 19, 1968, the Director of Security, CIA,

advised that in May, 1961, a component of CIA was in contact

5) i 3)
with © discuss problems in the ield;

however, it-was not known whether his services were utilized.

The Director of Security of CIA has also advised 2s eae i
od {
2), of interest to a component of CIA in 1959 when he '

represented his company at a fair in the USSR and in 1960

when he was again scheduled to visit the Soviet Union, A a i

5) :

: S not been identified but may be : i

identical withl who was in contact with :
Loa : AS :

: : : at ae SECRET ; !

222

| ww 50953 pecta:32318825 Page 122


Cee EO

Me SECRET
YURI V. ZAITSEV, Attache, Soviet Embassy in Washington in
1955; became employed by State Department in 1958; was
detached to USIA in 1959 and assigned to the American
National Exhibition in Moscow; and is currently a State

Department employee. The connections of voent a

ls)
i i Ce USIA and the fact that they were both of interest

to CIA ave completely consistent with NOSENKO's comments
__kegarding the type of cases handled by the 2ad Section and

with PETROV's interest in establishing coverage. The same —

(S)
would apply to £ he traveled to
the USSR in 1961. -However, it cannot be stated with certainty
that these are the cases PETROV had in mind or, if so, whether

they were the only cases in which he was interested at that

time é

© & [I

On November 27, 1967 (N-43) » when shown a list of

American Embassy personnel which included the name

YOSENKO stated there was a military officer
who wes in Russia for a short period in 1962 whe was of

interest to the lst Section of the lst Department vnich

ne SECRET
223

(NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 123

e

&



C

mk SECRET

initiated an operation against him. This man was born in
Russia or his parents were born in Russia and KGB put a
female agent "ELLADA' (KLARA GORBUNOVA) in contact with hin

and NOSENKO believes that photographs were taken of their

Ss
relations. { ae

Old the agent that he would come again
to Moscow. NOSENKO stated that he was told about this case
by GRYAZNOV. Investigation to identify this individual has

not been initiated but there is no reason to doubt the accuracy

of NOSENKO's information

On January 13 and 30, April 10, and August 1, 1968, aa
NOSENKO furnished information pertaining te this case, On
January 13 (N-97),he, stated that ALEKSANDR STEPANOVICH MALYUGIN
was working with agent "AMIGO! (PIETRO CECCHI), an Itelian
cook working in Spaso House. He said that MALYUGIN had
another Italian agent who was working in the Argentine Embassy.
On January 30 (N-114), NOSENKO stated that MALYUGIN recruited :
an Italian cook of the Argentine Embassy, a friend of PIETRO

CECCHI, in the late 1950's, About 1960 or the beginning of

1961 this agent left Moscow for New York to work as a cook bu)

aN SECRET

224

| HW 50953 DocId:32318825

Page 124

vatvaurneneed


oo

oO

TQP SECRET

for the representative of Holland to the United Nations.
This agent's file was transferred to the lst Department of
FCD which was planning to work with him in the U. S, & (4)

On April 10, 1968 (N-176); NOSENKO stated that this
Italian agent may have been recruited on a homosexual basis and
had ae to New York to work as a cook for elther the Belgian
or Dutch’ representative to the United ‘Nations, BORIS IVANOV,
KGB resident in New York, was in Moscow about this time and
was very interested in this cook, NOSENKO believed’ that he
might recognize the name of this agent 7 @0)

Investigation disclosed that the individual referred
to by NOSENKO was most likely identical 7 eae (5)
Italian, born in 1920, who arrived in New York August 31, 1960,
and, thereafter served as an employee in the household of the .

Wrbassador to the United eo) eee O

Subsequently, in 1961, he began employment as a cook in the _

iEinbassy in Washington, D, coe

Qi __
On August 1, 1968 (N-213), NOSEKNO was shown the

photographs and names of PIETRO CECCHI anf? SWI) :
i at which time he stated that he recognized name} R)
5 s)
”

225 Me SECRET

‘HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 125


qT SECRET
and he was the friend of CECCHI recruited by MALYUGIN, He
said ap given "some hint" to MALYUGIN concerning
another Italian working in another Embassy who was a homosexual. cata

g
coos interviewed by FBI Agents on August 14

and 16, 1968. He immediately recognized the photograph of

MALYUGIN and related how he had heen ''set up" in Moscow for
black market activities. An indian had requested that he Parts
sell some watches. He sold one to a Russian chauffeur and

was in contact with another Russian to sell two more. They

were picked up by KGB and he agreed to additional meetings

under threat of prosecution. MALYUGIN translated at the time *
of the arrest and subsequently was in contact eC gg ce :
four or five times. .Prior to his departure from Russia another

Soviet was introduced aa selected the photograph | !

of BORIS SEMONEVICH IVANOV as resembling this individual whom

he saw for about fifteen minutes, Arrangements were made for

s -
subsequent contact in New York but am not follow through.

In 1961 or 1962 he was contacted by a. Soviet in Washington, He i

g,

traintained that he refused to cooperate with

selected the phetograph of VLADIMIR PAVLOVICH ZAITSEV as the a
Soviet, .

: : é
ZAITSEV and has had no further contact. aa denied,

I : ,
ill 226 iN SECRET
i. ; : ‘

i , i Se ec eg cra UL EE

HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 126


my SECRET

that he had furnished information to the Soviets in Moscow
but stated that he was afraid not to continue to meet with
then SA gs
& a

On April 2, 1968 (N-176), NOSHNKO stated that while
looking at an encyclopedia he had seen the name of a flower
which reminded him of a KGB agent with an unusual Jewish name
FIAKSEL, This agent was married to an American furrier, He

also recalled another furrier whose name was oe

another case involving a father and son who were in the tobacco

-

business. This father and son were Americans who had traveled
4

to the USSR and were of interest to MIKHAIL FEDOROVICH SHISHKIN
of the 7th Department. which had an operation against the son
involving KLARA K, GORBACHEYA, (NOSENKO later corrected this,
name to KLARA KONSTANTINOVA GORBUNOVA.) Re

On April. 4, 1968 (N-176), NOSENKO stated that SHISHKIN
at one time was Chief “of the Ist Section of the 7th Deparcment fy
but later was demoted and became a Senior Case Officer in the ;
Section handling businessmen in the late 1950's, The case

involving the American tobacco inan and his son cccurred in the AK

Ye SECRET
227

j—— Z me . ieiedeeeemeeeec ae

‘NW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 127


< veon GO

1Ye SECRET

period 1957-59 and possibly in 1959, NOSENKO stated that

possibly the name of the young man vas(_ (S) :

On April 12, 1968 (N-179), a list of names including

3 $s
those Pei his son tS).

displayed to NOSENKO. He selected the iane(___] a stated

he believed this was the name of the father and son previously

mentionéd by him, After seeing the name he recalled that he ee

: mn ae
name of the young man was{_}@tner than Cee did not :

know if a recruitment approach had been made to these individuals. +

Investigation disclosed that the a been

in the tobacco business for many years and have traveled hoe

throughout the world including trips to. the USSR. Kw

(Gs. Unknown Subject; | Sw
: Jamerican Owner of Hotel or Restaurant | fu) :

On December 15, 1967, (N-73), NOSENKO stated that

when Premier KHRUSHCHEV came to the United States he was

accompanied by various individuals including a Deputy Chief
of the 9th Directorate of KGB named SAHNO (or SAKHNO). This - i
individual dealt with managers of hotels and restaurants in : i
connection with KERUSHCHE ‘s visit. In 1962 an American tourist, \
| i: ‘who was the owner of a hotel or restaurant, probably in Neveu) i

(OP SECRET
228

i

\ HW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 128


TYP SECRET
York, came to Moscow. and requested through Intourist to see SAHNO,
SAHNO told NOSENKO that he knew this man and asked NOSENKO to
accompany him to a meeting with him, The meeting took place in
the office of ANKUDINOV, Chief of Intourist and VLADIMIR BABKIN,
Chief of an Intourist Department, was alsé present, The meeting

was purely social and there was no recruitment attempt, On

March 15, 1968 (N-164)., NOSENKO in discussing this case, stated

that this man was probably manager of a hotel and merely wanted

to see SAHNO out of politeness,\¥) U) : 4
“Investigation to date has not identified this

individual, (Note: NOSENKO made reference to this incident nae

while discussing the 9th Directorate on July 9 or 13, 1964 but «
a separate case was not initiated.)(¢)a(u) :

g [  @)

As indicated above NOSENKO mentioned a furrier by the i

. : 7
name’ of 2 April 2, 1968, This case was discussed

with him again on April’4 and 12, 1968.(N-176, 179). He stated

that he did not know the first name but the man was a furrier..
who was in the USSR on several occasions, KGB was working
against him in the early 1950's and possibly also in the late

1950's,, His case, was handled by the Section in the 7th Department

Me ES “Which handled businessmen, “NOSENKO did not know whether this i
: : |
man had been recruited./X) @ ofa fhe 4

ae oe : : he SECRET. : ,

| : :
| AW 50953 DocId:32318825 Page 129


me SECRET

Investigation has disclosed that the individual

referred to by NOSENKO is undoubtedly | Ne)

a fur broker in New York who has made a number of trips to

eee ;
the Soviet Union. as been interviewed and has _

advised that he lived with a Soviet woman during his stay

——T6

He also advised that he had met TATIANA FIAKSEL about 1946 in

a

: 3)
in the USSR [Erom 1941-1945 This woman's name wa

the Soviet Union. She later married a friend of his, DANIEL ~

SHERICH ‘also engaged in the fur business in New York. fimenmem|G)
did not admit. being contacted by Soviet Intelligence but stated
he had always suspected that TATIANA I, SHERICH was working for ‘e
Soviet Intelligence from the time that he had first met her. & /
B. Additional Significant Data u
[On Cases Previously Reported] oe wy
iz JOHN DISCOE SMITH (2H art) ] u)
This case illustrates the inadequacy of the

processing of information cbtained from NOSENKO during

previous interviews. On June 25, 1964, NOSENKO furnished

information concerning.an American code clerk.who had defected

to the USSR and who was being handled by NIKOLAY senpnovicn (BS aC) ()

tye SECRET
230 |

i
| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 130



Cc 16)

: : Me SECRET
5) et
KGB as reported by during early 1967. NOSENKO's
informaticn relating to "ZHARI's" connection with India
suggested that he was identical with SMITH who was stationed
in India from 1955 to 1959 as a code clerk and communications
technician. He transferred to Vienna, Austria, in late 1959

but xesigned from State Department in December, 1959. SMITH's

whereabouts was unknown from May or early June, 1960, until Ps
October, 1967, when the Soviets publicized his defection and
reported he was in the USSR. Ch
NOSENKO was reinterviewed concerning this matter on
October 31, November 29, and December 6, 1967 (N-3, 47, 57), hae
and furnished basically the same information as previously
furnished, He was of the opinion that FCD had taken "ZHARI"
from India and believed that he had first heard about him
in 1961; however, ARTEMEV was connected with him in 1962, ‘4 (wy z 1
There is little doubt that inquiries in 1964 regarding
communications personnel stationed in India prior to 1961 would’

have discovered the JOHN DISCOE SMITH case three years before

Ss, po
the case was reported a ) xy ee
H q ee
a nye SECRET

* 232

{ NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 131


C 0

TOP SECRET
for this agent was PAVEL FEDEROVICH PANKRATOV who introduced
the agent to NOSENKO because NOSENKO was considering the

possibility of using her against correspondent|

[he and PANKRATOV had a short meeting with her on

the street and NOSENKO was introduced to her by PANKRATOV

as his KGB colleague, She had been an agent for some time

and used on a "neutral base," (occasionally when there was ~ ie
a need on a particular target). PANKRATOV told NOSENKO it
would be easy for her to agree ‘to have "close relations" dics
: (intimate relations) with a foreigner and NOSENKO said he
did net use her against ae later saw her file when hae
it was in possession of KOVSHUK. %
NOSERRO said that he had met this agent with

PANKRATOV in 1954 and it would have been before mid-1954

when PANKRATOV was transferred from the 1st Nepartment, On
April 16, 1968, (N-181), NOSENKO said that KOVSHUK had the
file on FIAKSEL in 1960 or 1961 but he did not know why

KOVSHUK was holding the file and did not know if KOVSHUK had

taken the file over from PANKRATOV in mid-1954. At the time i
KOVSHUK had the file it was ‘reported that she was coming back

: to Russia (from the U. a AG)

235 a he SECRET ;

(aw 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 132


— co

m SECRET
[&.. NIKOLAL sxvortsov] OE“)
On June 29, 1968, (it-208) ‘ @ photegraph containing
the name of ALEKSANDR MIKHALYLOVICH CHECHEVITSYN was displayed
‘to NOSENKO whe identified the photogreph as an old photograph
of SKVORTSOV. It is noted that CHECHEVITSYN had accompanied

ALERSEY NIKOLAYEVICH SOLOVYEV to Bangkok in 1960 were SOLOVYEV

was in contact with af-

(Doni s contact was the first etep-of an attempted

s
recruitment of 2, went to Italy later in 1960, It is
y

noted also that NOSENKO advised that SKVORTSOV during 1960-61

was trying to get a visa to ga to Tealy ie

Recruitment approaches vere made to ea the
Soviets in Italy in 1960 and in France in 1962. He was
prominently mentioned in information furnished by SHAMROCK
which undoubtedly emanated from JOHN DISCOE SMITH, who was

well known tof ) 5

D. Significant Confirmatory Information U

e [stauKov and vayvayey] (seh Ny

On June 29, 1968, (N-206), NOSENKO was shown a list -

of 165 Soviets whe applied for visas to come to the Uni teal (y)

, : My SECRET

239

| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 133


C _O

Me SEC

States in 1963 and 1964 under the sponsorship of the C

on Student Travel of the YMCA East-West Committee. NOSENKO
selected the photograph ef VLADIMIR GRIGORYEVICH STRUKOV which
he said was familiar and he thought he was a young officer. who
"practiced" in SCD in 1962-63 after studying at the higher

school of KGB, He also recognized the photograph and name of

YURIY VLADIMIROVICH URYVAYEV as a senior case officer in Section
4 of 7th Department, He then recalled that STRUKOV hed been
afraid to come to the United States, He and URYVAYEV had been
selected as security officers for the group but URYYAYEV for

e

some reason did net receive a visa. STRUKOV became an officer

in 2nd Section, 7th Department in 19653) (u)

After the interview of NOSENKO a recheck of FBI

&

records disclesed that STRUKOV did come to the United States -
but URYVAYEV did not. While this is not of major importance,

it is considered a significant indication that NOSENKO's

| i knowledge of KGB was not derived from KGB briefing but from

actual service as an officer, ¥%(4) i ;

a

On Mareh 5, 1968, (N-155), NOSENKO recognized the

der a list of American Embassy
i)
ee Yop SECRET

| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 134


C. 6

: ie SECRET
s)
personnel. He described S head of the Sergeants

“at American House who was spying on the Russian agents in
American House and giving KCB trouble. The KGB, therefore,
used some "medicine against him to make him leave, This
was done by placing the "medicine" in his bed. This caused
an illness which the doctors did not diagnose. NOSENKO

; Ss
thought eft Moscow in 1960. The case officer working

against him was VLADIMIR peskrn 4g) Mic
: . ‘5
FBI files indicate that + S. Army Attache

and security files were reviewed on May 6, 1963. They disclosed
that he arrived in Moscow May 8, 1958, and was assigned duties
as manager of American House. He was scheduled to leave Moscow :
May 7, 1960, but got an extended tour for another year. However,
he left April 10, 1961, before the year was up as he was suffering

from erysipelas with severe skin rash, swelling about the face _

$
and a temperature. It was noted that (fide excellent

efficiency ratings and had been commended for his assistance to’

the exhibit manager of the American National Exhibition in roscoe
This also is considered as significant indication that

NOSENKO is furnishing information from personal knowledge and

not from KGB beteting, Bh) ey

241 Me SECRET

a tan nai a ater nr me —

nw 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 135


€ ©

TOE SECRET

Ko

Page 435 of the CIA paper describes the KGB operation

3.

involving the captioned individuals who were arrested and
recruited by KGB during 1961 while visiting the USSR. NOSENK
reported that his former subordinate, V. V, KOSOLAPOV, wes
directly involved in the case, After the oe
from Moscow they reported their arrest to U. 8. authorities
and furnished descriptions of the individuals involved in
their recruitment? .

On June 22, 1968, (N-205), the descriptions furnished
by the [oT foxe discussed with NOSENKO. He suggested _
that "VIKTOR" described by them ae be KOSOLAPOV; the
"General" described by them was probably SERGEY MIKHAYLOVICH
FEDOSEYEV, and "OLA" was probably BOGPANOVA, a female officer
of 1st Section. When show photographs of one NINA BOGDANOVA
and one ELENA BOGDANOVA, NOSENKO believed that NINA BOGDANOVA
was identical with the female efficer of the_lst Section, Ist
Department, who was involved in thel Jee. He also

stated that VLADIMIR L'VOVICH ARTEMEV, an officer of the lst

Department, was smvorwoa XK a

242 fe SECRET

je

|
| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 136


a We SECRET
Subsequently photographs of KOSOLAPOV, FEDOSEYEV,
ARTEMEV, and the two BOGDANOVAs were displayed to the
oF made firm identifications of KOSOLAPOV, FEDOSEYEV,
and NINA BOGDANOVA as being involved in their case, They
were not certain that ARTEMEV was involved,
, Ja. Teip of NoseNKots Mother Mi) ek
On May 15, 1968, (N-194), NOSENKO in conversation
mentioned that his mother had accompanied Madam KOSYGINA on a
trip to the Mediterranean and Western Europe in 1956, possibly
on the at u)
An Italian source reported to CIA concerning the ns
visit of the "S. S. Pobeda" to Naples, aa on September 11-14,
1956. Included in the list of 400 passengers were KLAUDYA
KOSYGINA born in 1908, passport number 123494, issued August 27,
1956, and TAMARA NOSENKO, born 1910, passport mumber 123495 | -

cS
issued August 27, 1956, #

a " :

Pages 424 and 425 of the CIA paper contain information

concerning the captioned individual. NOSENKO reported that while
she was working in Mos¢ow she fell.in love with a KGB agent

and was the target of an unsuccéssful KGB recruitment ee td)

243 yp SECRET

‘NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 137


Cc. . 2

mi SECRET

It was noted that she reported this recruitment approach
in January, 1959, and later furnished details of this attempt
to a State Department security officer. @ cus)

This case is undoubtedly identical with a case

previously reported by ANATOLIY GOLITZYN concerning an American

secretary who rebuffed a recruitment attempt. The two cases

had not been tied together prior to the current series of he
interviews of NOSENKO( a
oa al DMITRYEVICH CHELNOK 9) Ss *:

On November 16, 1967, (N-30), NOSENKO furnished a

written memorandum in which he identified Ie

Ss
as head of ( who dealt with Intourist

and visited Russia several times. He worked with his son,
coy beth were suspected by KGB of having FBI connections,

In 1960 CHELNOROV, who was Chief of the 7th Department, became
s ce 1
acquainted with under cover of Intourist. Thereafter ~~ :

{
>,
he was in contact le the latter was in Moscow. :

2
4d CHELNOKOV's telephone number and CHELNOKOV received -
&)

a telephone call from whe. was abroad) on one occasion i

when NOSENKO was in CHELNOKOV's officeAgQ) =e @

a
aa Me SECRET
a . ee eereecce = ausied saaananaeceSP Ee SSSOREEasSe Bestest ertectqssstnessonsstost ossa/cttnsse-stiosthassas

| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 138


ans
c
Ye SECRET ~
On November 18, 1967, (N-31), NOSENKO stated that
ce have considered CHELNOKOV to be an
Intourist official, NOSENKO believed] [no was very
sly, ‘“'suspected" CHELNOKOV -and used him to settle questions

which could not be settled through Intourist. He did not

believe that : would know CHELNOKOV's full name and
said that CHELNOKOV had a “city number." NOSENKO had previously Bee
explained that KGB officers frequently gave their contacts a
"eity telephone number" rather than the telephone number of
their KGB office although the telephone would be physically

leeated in the office of the KGB officer) pe

On July 3, 1968, (N-207), NOSENKO stated he did not
$
know whether mew CHELNOKOV under his true name. On

June 10, 1968, a photograph of CHELNOKOV was displayed to

cf. failed to recognize it. However, he stated that he

knew two Soviets named CHELNOKOV; one worked in the section of

Intourist that handled Intourist guides and appeared to hold
the position of supervisor. The other was introduced to him

in 1958 by an Intourist official SERGI M. GUSKOV, as "an

: important friend"! who could help secure an appropriate &
; “—¥ 5)
: : Me SECRET
245

| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 139


4
TYP SECRET

gift parcel license. The introduction teok place in the

Intourist office in Moscow and subsequent meetings occurred

Ss S$
in this office or a¢| otel. a having

telephoned CHELNOKOV on. several occasions from the U. S.

“concerning specific situations involving issuance of tourist

tens. A |
- .

Pages 129-130 of the CiA paper discuss the case

¥eported by NOSENKO involving RGB a a) Jeeta

= osmo had veported that

visas and related ma

ers compromised on the basis of intimacies with a Soviet
4

woman which were photographed by the KGB. The recruitment
3
approach td firs made by DUBAS, Chief of the 7th Department,
S
who extracted an agreement scon( fe to eriticize the

Soviet Union, This approach was made in 1957 ox 1958 and H
3
BUBAS again contacted When he came to Moscow in 1963.
s ,
Thereafter) ile was turned over ta the FCD. ak

3 ; i
Ces interviewed by FBI Agents in November, 1964, :

and confirmed that he had been approached and photographs of him a

and the Seviet female in compromising positions displayed to

i
i
| NW 50953 Docld:32318825 Page 140


e a6

Ye SECRET
however, he denied intimacies with the Soviet woman or
agreement to collaborate with the KGB V2

During the interview[ | ade available a photo-
graph depicting him and the Soviet voman (NADEZHDA KOLESNIKOVA
or KOLESHNIKOVA or KALESENIKOVA). This photograph was displayed
to NOSENKO eon May 3, 1968, (N-188), who immediately recognized
the photograph ee) stated that he believed the woman
was the Soviet woman with whom he had been compromised. However,

he could not be absolutely sure because the hair style appeared

to be different We

NOSENKO stated that although DUBAS (KONSTANTIN &
NIKITOVICH DUBAS) was Chief of the 6th Department in 1962 or
Ss : :
1963 when ee to the USSR, he was invited to contact

s ,
écause he had previously talked to him, NOSENKO believed

that. YURIY. BELIXOV served as interpreter for DUBAS during the
first interview (1957 or 1958), but DUBAS was probably accompanied

by somebody from the 6th Department in the 1962 or 1963 interview

; On July 15, 1968, photographs of NUBAS and BELIKOV
ey
were displayed yen FBI Agents. He immediately identified

the photograph of DUBAS as "the Chief" who had made the

approach to him. He said the photograph of BELIKOV resembled/ ;

Ne SECRET
247 :

is
i

“MW 50953 Decta:32318825 Page 141

