AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD_NUMBER:  124-10280-10072
RECORD_SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-228-2429

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 10/09/1976
PAGES: 4
SUBJECT: OBA, CUBAN EXILE EXTREMIST, ASSOC, VENEZUELA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: iad CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW_DATE: — 06/08/1998 UPDATE DATE:

STATUS  Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HW 50953 DocId:32302135 Page 1


1K “cesouet CREMOUS; SECRET (When Filled. In) a \
A oa ey
v6 ‘ as
. PRIORITY
C/I Fi trcaigerice Information Cable bd
VW IN 064422
WARNING NOTICE er
9)-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED ieee a ed

\ 4 ICS/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCC SWS NSA TREAS NSC/S SDO NIO CRS
SSH SECUR (SY/I/PIB) SS/ID
Orenanions Shs? PACED ERT, Sastmes Bake Seattle eset Shessle of £0. 1882 Cremation

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO.
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THIS 1S AN INFORMATION IREPORTICMOIONNAULY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

TUATIUN ANDIUN, CITE TOFIRDB-315/10100-76
Cl FORMATION is

Pinta aa Metco
OUMENT.. Aes Ye Eth octoBER 1976
SKE fade" :

REPORT CLASS S E C RE Te#WARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED**NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS==

NOT RELEASASLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSUL TANTS
for. ma elelag

TRY VENEZUELA/ CUBA
COUNTR ENEZUEL Ay CUB A Fal FORMATION C0
Dat 3@ SEPTEMBER ©7 UCTOBER 1976 Sata i
SUBJECT _REACTLON OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY

EEE PAN EEL OO BO ater

ERRORIST AITACKS AGAINST CUBAN ALRCRAF? “7

°

TNS TALL AT LON:

nennennninn nen
ace VENEZUELA» CARACAS (8 OCTOBER 1976) FIELD Raa ie

SOURCE SEE BELOW,

1, SQURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 2 AND 3: A venezuele ‘N BUSINESSMAN

WITH CLOSE CONTACTS IN BUSINESS, ag Ref 9 | mea xi

DIPLOMATIC CIRCLES. HIS RELIABILITY a noT Dgeggy eSTasli SHED, oe
2. ON 7 OCTOBER 1976 PEDROYG 0 ME ERNANDEZ» SECOND, .
OCT 22 1976
SECRETARY aT) THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN CARACAS» VENEZUELA, ship THaT
=o ee 1

THE CUBAN EMBASSY KAS AWARE THAT 4 BOMB WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE

CRASH OF THE<CUBANA AIRLINE FLIGHT OFF THE COAST OF BARBS
ON 6 OCTUBER. THE CUBANS, GOMEZ SAID. DID NOT KNOW ON WHECH
LEG OF THE FLIGHT THE BOMB WAS PLACED HOWEVER,

(FIELD COMMENT? ig PLANE WAS DOWNED WITH. THE bOSs OF 78 LIVES

56 nov 10 978 SERED |

HW 50953 DocId:32302135 Page 2


file >
P6O~1007Q
FOR 3007 FEET ONS OMS fe : : i‘ : i!
: a
IN ObyuZe :
- RECEI VED i
INTELL IGENCE pW. ToFIR DB-315/10100-76 5
WARNING NOTICE ts By
} SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED PAGED OF y PAGES
Z agth
SECRET uer Ve FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
~ CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
bd (classification)

INCLUDING FENCING TEAM WHICH HAD RECENTLY co MP LE TED COMPETITION IN

VENEZUELA. )
[3, GOMEZ SAID THAT ON 3@ SEPTEMBER THE CUBAN EMBASSY HAD

if INFORMED THE DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND

een (DISIP) + THE veneaueL an’ CIVIL TAN SECURITY SERVICE,
ROM AN I WAS OBSERVING

Hay A CUBAN EXILE NAMED ‘SALVADg
<=

CARACAS HOTEL.

“(SOURCE COmmENTI

SIBILITY

THE CUBAN FENCING TEAM AT TT ROMANI » GOMEZ SalD»

IS A UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE AGENT
GOMEZ, | IMPLIED THAT THE CUBAN EMBASSY TS LOOKING IN o

FR
I

THAT ROMANI'S ACTIVITIES ARE INVOLVED WITH THE PLANE CRASH.) well

FURTHERMORE, THE CUBANS TOLD DISIP THAT THE TEAM WOULD: DEFEND i

ITSELF SHOULD ROMAN] CAUSE TROUBLE. SHORTLY AFTER THE CUBANS
MADE THEIR FEELINGS KNOWN TO DISIP»: GOMEZ SAID THAT ROMANI'S
e :

ACTIVITIES CEASED, (FIELD COMMENT: IN 495,
: TDFIRDB-315/09683 -76, OF +28" SEPTEMBER . THE SAME
\

SOURCE REPURTED THAT THE CUBAN EMBASSY HAD COMPLAINED TO
DISIP ABOUT ANTI*CUBAN GOVERNMENT ARTICLES APPEARING IN THE LOCAL
PRESS,” IN THIS INSTANCE THE CUBANS INDICATED THEIR WILLINGNESS TQ
: RETALIATE AGAINST THE NEWSMAN INVOLVED IF ‘DISIP B{D NOT
raid SECRET.

HW 50953 DocId:32302135 Page 3


/ OBSOLETE PREVIOUS Y ae siete
wey 2007 mewn 2S Pat

: IN ObYNee
: TDFIR DB-315/10100-76
SENSITIVE. INTELLIGENTE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED PAGE 3 OF y PAGES
: SECRET , FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(elasstfication)

TAKE ACTION),
4, SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 5 AND 6: A FOREIGN D}PLOMAT WITH A
WIDE VARIETY UF CONTACTS, HIS RELIABILITY HAS NOF BEEN
ESTABLISHED, ae
f a
| 5, DURING THE WEEK OF 4 OCTOBER LUIS MART $ NE 2 “ Qeenmnonn
A EES
MONO CAL CUBAN FIRST SECRETARY, SAID THAT .THE EMBASSY WAS
ae :
—“EWARE THAT CUBAN EXILE EXTREMIST ORLANDO{B 0 S-C W.WAS IN

BOSCH'S ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA AND TO DETERMINE WHETHER

HE EMBASSY, HE SAID, WAS ATTEMPTING #0 INVESTIGATE

HE WAS STILL IN THE COUNTRY, MARTINEZ SAID THAT FHE EMBASSY HAD
RECEIVED UNCONFIRMED KEPORTS THAT BOSCH HAD MOVED OUT OF THE
CARA CAS “AREA AND WAS THEN IN THE VENEZUELAN INTER{ORe

(FIELD COMMENT: FOR AN EARLIER REPORT ON THE PRESENCE OF BOSCH

IN VENEZUELA, SEE 498, TDFIRDS~315/09814~764 OF - 39

SEPTEMBER» FROM A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE.)
6. IN ADDITION TO AND IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTIGATIONS INTO
THE POSSISLE PRESENCE OF BOSCH IN VENEZUELA CUBAN EMBASSY

OFFICIALS ARE CONCERNED ABOUT THE MACHINE=GUNNING OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY

IN CARACAS BY UNKNOWN ASSAILANTS ON THE EARLY MORNING OF 8 OCTOBER.
7,. FIELD DISSEM! EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACAS! SENT TO
SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32302135 Page 4


a] 3S O=HTD

|
|
a 1
“FORN. OBSOLETE PREVIOUS ad ros re
SBR S007 oNsOLgT grEyioU . ;
|
|
|

IN Ob4uB2

torr DB-315/10100-76

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED PAGE 4 OF 4PAGES

~ SECRET

(classification)

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

PORT OF SPAIN, GEORGETUWN, KINGSTON, MEXICO CITY, MANAGUA,
GUATEMALA CITY, PANAMA CITY, SANTO DOMINGO,

REPORT CLASS S EC RE T*WARNING NOTICE=SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED=-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS@=
NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSUL TANTS. E \
CLASSIFIED YY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER, XGDS-2,

on ae -

Lo ~ SECRET Bata |
> !

HW 50953 DocId:32302135 Page 5
