# 124-90107-10140

## Page 1

124-90107-10140|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90107-10140

HQ

105-117222-103

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 06/25/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

COMANDOS L.

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

'RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: LHM

19.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32333557

Page 1

81

---

## Page 2

UNILED STATES DEPARTMENT Or JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFCATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

Miami,

Florida

SECRET

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BMACHESJUN 2 51963

IN IP 2

KP 11-19-97

ALL INFORMACION CONTAINED

RE :

4-19-

Classified

Declassity go: DABR(5 FK)

COMA NDOS I

EXCEPT WERE SHOWI

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA; OTHERWISE

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

On June 15, 1963, MM T-1, another Government

agency which conducts intelligence

investigations, advised

that on June 14, 1963, information was received that captioned

organization is rumored to be planning a raid against the

SED/ULSR

North coast of Cuba sometime between June 14 and 20, 1963.

The target is reportedly,

at the boundry line of Matanzas and

Havana Provinces, Cuba.

(и)

1-22-9

MM I-1 explained that the source of the information

CO

with intimate knowledge of

maritime activities in Florida and this source received the

information from a person who has.

contact with Cuban military

and political groups in Miami.

FLA

DZO.

west 4th Avenue, Man And no he quada, 124 sah,

a member of Comandos

Land has participated in raids against

Cuba with this organization in the past. Perez stated he (a)-

knew of no immediate plans for any such raid and doubted the

organization was considering any such plans for the near

future.

JFK)

MM I-2 and MM I-3, who have been active in Cuban

revolutionary activities for the past five years, and who

have furnished reliable information in the past, advised

that they are in almost daily contact with the leaders of

Comandos I and there are no indications that this organization

has any military activity planned for the immediate future, U!

Classifet

799-1-83

SECRET

Darla

GROUP ,

EXCLUDED

FROM CLASS.

12

AUTONATIO DONNGRADING 4UDSON- 50

FDECIASSIFICATION

DATE OF E/LIEV

GECR

Spy see Cho.

NH 50953 DocId: 32333557

Page 2

---

