1241026410491

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI :
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10264-10491
RECORD SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:  62-116395-1642

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
‘TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 04/28/1959
PAGES: 47
SUBJECT: CC, TELCAL, CONTACTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ORIGINAL NEW

CLASSIFICATION:  Seret CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW_DATE: — 02/24/1999 UPDATE DATE: 02/14/2001
STATUS _ Redact =
RESTRICTIONS:
JEK Act 6 (1A)
JFK Act 6 (4)
COMMENTS: INC 14 MEMO, | COVER SHEET, 2 ADMIN PAGES, 1 REPORT, 1 TTY, 3

TELEGRAM, 1 LTR, | A/T, 3 LHM

HW 50953 DocId:32195998 Page 1


ae : 2- Mr. J. 4. Mintz

(il - Mr. P. Vv. Daly) . /
- Mr. T. W. Leavitt f
- Mr. S. F. Phillips
Attorney General. May 28, 1996

1 - Mr. S. J. Miller

i? HW 175 39s /042.

aad

Enclosures (2)
62-116395

1 = The Deputy attouney Gensral’”
Attention: Micheel B.

SJM:Ihb /hb
(9) pd anighicsk

stable
poerciear era ah ae ee
Sars Sema"
eee: ‘capt 2 ogee S$

cell

APPROVED:
Assoc, Dir.

Asst. Dir:
Adm. Serv. 2...)

TO BE HAND-DELIVERED BY THE OFFICE OF CONGRESS IONAL AFFAIRS

gt ON ANG@%Sroom€— TeLeryPEe uNIT [J ls q oan ”

HW 50953 DocId:32195998 Page 2


‘OrridwaL FORM NO. 10
roro-iet 7 alt

UNITED STATES a "RNMENT _" : is :
‘Memoranuum a

A SECRET :
To: Director, FBI (105-77667) Date: — 6-28-62

FROM ;--7f Legal Attaché, Madrid (109-20) (RUC)
CIA HAS NO O2JEC

suRyECT: ROLANDO L. cumEra” ECADES DECLASSIFGATION ANON,
on FPN - CUBA id RELEASE OF Ci INFORMATION

IN THIS POCUMENT Qn ben top mdr,
oo eB poner ee nth
Ke Madrid letter 5-10-62 and Miami let er sy t
to the Bureau 6-7-62. m b- 8-47

As stated in Madrid letter of 5-10-62,

. ertinent information regarding subject was furnished
38 the local station of CIAs) my
ag :
3f Reference Miami letter to the Bureau reflects a
that subject proceeded to Mexico prior to the time 3 “4

i
‘
|
!

_—--Russian official; MIKOYAN_arrived in Mexico from_Cuba pyre
and was in contact i Miami informant @s7 |
stated was reported to work for the~U. S. Embassy in

Mexico City. It is the recollection of Legat, Madrid, rot
cs) that was Far ent of ClAvassigned to the iS 8C)) :
Ameri@an Embassy in Mexico and han ed( Cubans Vif u)

“2azMMog «noi
i 07 asuodsas U2 pasvdard sr guownoop sry T

i LW
It would appear (that CIA) is completely aware »
of subject's activities and possible intentions to defect.

Hl In view of the above, no further action appears
necessary by the Madrid Office, and jg matter is con-
sidered RUC.

fied by:

Declassity on: OADR: “)

jou finw quaquoa oy? pun 2077!

ase sz

* IqZq 243 Jo yoouddy ssasdxa ayy ynoynm Jou

|
|
|

= 4 - Bureau (1 = Liaison ary

a : 1 - Miami, 109-471 es

s 1 = Madrid OS- - (AG Zot

g SvP:ED REC uf 7 uae < :
(5) ENE 106 Sear ae |

“es JUL 5 1962

~Ywassyp 40f JOU $i pun ysanbou an

ne i
anv ud, yesh ” i
5 4 JUL 13 1992 ne SECRET

50953 Doclda:32195998 Page 3


_ po et

eee FBI ce

Date;
AIRTEL JUNT 81962

(Type in plain text or code).

AIRMAIL REGISTERED MAIL
_ Vic —___prie document 2 im response to your request Loire is not for

Transmit the following in

|
dissemi-

etee. 8 BBG a Yy
aan peas respi reegcasranpASSEaaE peccay ete andl Gonaiton, maj Mpatl hr disclose 1a thorized persie
nel without the express approval of the FBI.” ~~ -~~~-------4L~ -~-~~~

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

e iN TH
RE: ROLANDO L. CUBELA Y SECADES
FPM = CUBA: a

Re-Miami letter to Bureau, 6/7/62.

Enclosed for the 2u are 12 copies of 1
memorandum suitable for disgemination cCeontaining inf
from(MM 761-5 ») whe is MM Tel, and fron S$ TEPEDL

98-1964 Ave. Ego Park , Queens, Lomades
wed Sb SSH AMS eos ee eee
Wt T-2,_in letterhedd mess, .

' ANTONIO ECHEVARR 2x hesd of the Revolutionary

; has
(6 #2) (AM) (RM) pee
is) Peevey

ua RY
Sy £0)) (ca ee
New Sork (ints) ae ‘(Ene=1) uy dy Cen

Or Rp
eeroee

Washington Field (Info) (RM) tere~2) 7
* San Juan (Info) (RM) ae FEC 6 0 LUe
a

Miami Zt
(2 ~ 109-431) ‘ WE JUNST 1962.
CL = 1342379 Sub A) Soe 6 ota a

THE smbs Sy
(12) we:

Approved:

f*

Special Agent in Charge

TEE, PrEaN cera:

HW 50953 DocId:32195998 Page 4

FROM: SAC, MIAME (109-471) (P) DECLASSIFICATION’ AND

GA HAS NO ORECTON TB ele
RELEASE OF CIA INFOR

The info was furnished on 6/11/62, to SA THOMAS H, Sow
ERRION at Miasi, Fla. (228 761-8 is a long-time acquaintance
OA¢TEPED INOS: i both eke friend# of CUBELA,
it 7eta)aavt sed that the mother of deceased JOSE

Directory OR), antisBATISTA rebel organization) came from

duaein®

cine
at

hoes
peegt

etterhead

© obtained

103 Sn

oF _- /24



MM 109=471

: Co
i-made a trip to "Closter", Switzerland, fe: KAVIGNO
to obtain info about seme student conference, buf fEPEDINOK
was delayed in leaving and due to a mixup the person he ©
was Supposed to contact upon arrival there diti not show up,
so the trip was not a success,
TF Graser

TEPEDING stated that, as mentioned above, he wil
coeperate in any way he can, but he doas not wan ZZ 2
to think he iugoine something behingg: STEWART dh hack in’ the O@
even fs aia nie tld Learn of any proposed plan: He vasCx)
told E88@°the info that he furnished would be made available

Nitin 3/6049 ™

to the proper agencies and his request

aral Covern
concerntheheaauas haya also be furnished at the same time Og

and that he would advised should additional info be needed.

He stated that any additional info coming to his
attention would be immediately furnished.
Cs)

Exerenif ates that he and@ot 761-S}had known each

other a_Tong time and that since(MM 761-S)lived in Miami and Soe i
‘ (SERED 5 returning te New York City he would furnish }!
uYany info toi 761-8 Jwho would, in turn, notify the FBI.
Com 761-S} advised that when previously discussing
CUBELA, he- tol dXTEPE nioyetae he had been questioned by the ied
FBI in connection with his own previous activities on several *« '

occasions in the past and would be able to make contact with ~
the FBI in such a manner that the info could be passed to

the proper U. S. Government agency with the precaution taken
te protec mapEpmnog aa not risk jeopardizing CUBELA's a")
chances fco¥ escaping Cuba).

Someey Ww) :
TEPEDT. trmished a business card of €tishnanwand.
4 Lipp, Inca Newwork,City end Corletts, Tacs! ano. Ttal you R/S !
showlpg a business address piirtlestili Sb ver Wee VOLK cc, 6e :
J phone AU dson.63,46,2.2.) which he wrete his home phone,
on and his home “address 98-19-64 Ave., Rego

Park, Queens,-L. I., N.Y Ww ada eerste

en,

Ss abgaaaee reg eeaaneree nt akaaeeep ‘came

HW 50953 DocId:32195998 Page 5


“address $B. RB

(

s named as#'CARLOS TOPEDINO. PAM 761-S)in 1/60
explained thag(CARLOS TEPEDIN ex ed th ema,
wholes oe ry house Havana and they tends)

ma 1092471 >I

: . Info copies are designated for New York, Washington
Field and San Juan Offices because of their interest in
current Cuhan matters. Three extra copies are designated

for the Bureau for transmittal to the Legats, Paris, Bern
and Madxid. a

(ed : é
: ~~ For the additional info of the Bureau and Legat,

Paris ,ZTEPEDINOXasked whom he should contact in the event

of the récéipt ef emergency info while he was in Paris. Seey
He was advised that it would be best to go to the American

mbassy and talk to somécne in the Legal Attache's Office.

TEPEDINOJwas not given any info indicating any connection
etween the Bureau and the Legal Attache.

can he contacted thrcugh the above heme telephone
Subsequent to that date, he can be reached throu

Miami indices are negative refEPEDIN

CIA, by letter classified SECRET, dated “10/27/59, furnished
info under the title "Cuban Government Agents Operating in
the United States" (forwarded by Bureau letter 11/10/59,.
captioned, Repert of Cuban Intelligence Agents in the United
States, IS - CUBA). This communication from CIA alleged

that a ‘fairly reliable scurce" in Cuba reporfed that

MM 761-S\had the reputation of being jewel gglex with an CO)
outlet in Havana in the€Diadema WELTY enS LOBED. tis Havana Ox)

represe fative described as having a, ein tl dae
Hilton:

until(MM 761-S}vas imprisoned by the BATISTA Government as
a result of his participation i 957 attack on Cuban
srefused to help the wife of

As a result (MM 761-S\severed all contact with

i sand became verWangr th higy Although angry, ,

761-$) emphatically statedE TERED apes a legitimate whote- GYD i
salefiehelgiond was not engaged in Tllegal activities. (Miami 4
report of SA THOMAS H. oe captioned RICARDO i
MADAN RIVAS, IS - CUBA, Bufile 97-3993)

se Ge

HW 50953 DocId:32195998 Page 6


OPHONAL FORM NO. 10 ” z ar

010-104 :

UNITED STATES / y MENT - e ane K
‘Memore asi

ere
To: Director, FBI c0s-7760 SED

non SAC, Miami (109-471) (C)
wp hee aa

———

TE: 10/11/63

ON TO
: a ‘A DECLASSIFCATION 25097
suBJECH: ROLANDO L. CUBELA y SECADES RELEASE OF CiA INFORIMATIO

18 - CUBA BTS DOCUMENT gare

(00: Miami) = ) b-ahasteg

«e je 7s beh aes |

+ Remylet 9/11/62. i oveg? MM i

Sane
Eon october 10, 1963, {320-761-8 dvised that(CaRLos =
TEPEDING,|had been in Miami and“had told him that subjéct
Was, Still working for CIA, but was disgusted with CIA because Q
they had not done what they had stated they would do when i
they approached him in the first place. | TEPEDINOJalso stated?

subject had made_a trip to Porto Alegre; razil, and had_re- a)
turned to Cuba, (where he still was bein operated by ¢ :
: j

The above is fox information of the Buréau and is sc}.
not being submitted in form suitable for dissemination since i
this is a CIA operation and, also, dissemination could :

lead to disclosure of Gate 761-8.

i Serre -

C2 - Bureau dissom
Burea (RM) jg not 10" Sings BY ;
1 - Miami eee eqtest Oe nica proce gon i
go your Te ty of fi ich Horized pe : |

an response oo ig Limiter oa to Un
THE; egh + ig preven di oe. Its Ue, ¢ aisclose
a mittee

out
and

tena the FBE + pee oa ‘
(9§-Mbb 720

3 OCT 14 is53

HW 50953 DocId:32195998 Page 7


: OF THE H
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

American Embassy
Paris 8, France

October 26, .1962

aie id
FBI (105-77867)

Director;

Legat, Paris (105-1779) (ruc)
<o-— Subject? ROLANDO b. CUBE
IS - CUBA

LA y SECADES
5

: : “Re Parts letter 8/22/62, | :

Instant matter was discussed with
Assistant Chief, Central Intelligence Agency ;
on October 23, 1962. He advised that no information’ ie]
interest to the Bureau has been obtained! by CIA, Paris
in captioned. matter,
Bureau's interest and in the event they receive any
information of interest it will be furnished to this
office, 7 : 7 y

3 - Bureau (1 ~ Liaison)
1 - Paris aa

wr dissemi- .
: 5 oi oti by : 7
‘his document is prepared in respons ‘use is limited to official proceedings by

is t

‘onse to your-request and is’ not fo:
nation outside your Committec.

£ may not be di:
a ittce.and the conten ts
your Commit the express approval of the ue

‘3

ot Mir Vb f-19

rem oe HOS

‘disclosed to unauthorized person,

HW 50953 DocId:32195998 Page 8

‘THE ROREIGN SERVIC — a

He stated that they are aware of the



te !
=.

a cece } ur. Belmont
; SS 1+ Mr. Nohr
: 1 =~ Mr. DeLoach
GIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO lhe Mr, Sullivan
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR, * 1 - Mr. Wannall
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
7 ( THIS DOCUMENT. Se pes June 4, 1965
aye f
28 \gsioN8t SECTS Ditetins Mav lg 2 ~ tes cotter
BORN nauly xin! i= hy Ovirien
Zw? * : = .
ESE gubjec PLANS TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN LEADERS” i
& -_ On June 2, 1965, Victor Domindador Espinosa i

llernandez,. 2 Cuban refugee, was interviewed at the New York
City Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Espinosa advised as follows:

; On May 29, 1965, he returned to New York City after
spending twenty-six days in Paris, France, where he was ain
contact with individuals involved in a plot to assassinate
Fidol Castro and other Cuban GSowGrnment leaders. The main
figure in this plot is Rolando~Cubela, a close friend of
Eepinosa and an intimate friend and current neishbor of
Fidel Castro. Cubela is identical with forner Major Rolando
L. Cubela y Secaces, who hae resigned from the armed forces
be “ef Cuba and is now practicing medicine in Havana. Alberto

A Blanco, an employes of the Cuban Foreign Ministry, and Major

ALL INFORMATIO
HEREIN IS UN
WHERE sHoyy

SO6ES
Fe

ay

C

ouktb one,

z)

ra

2s

Juan Alncida Bosque are the other leading figures in this

<
2 plot.

wy
lle conferred in Paris for about ten days with

Alberto Blanco who was then on an inspection tour of Cuban

Embassies and Consulates abroad. fle learned ‘that the plot

is directed toward the assassination of Fidel Castro, his

brother Raul Castro, Ernesto "Che® Guevara,a Cabinet. menber

in the present Cuban Government, and Ramiro Valdes, the Chief

of the Cuban Aintellixence Services. Tho assassination of these

individuals is to take place in public, possibly on July 26,

1965, when all the Cuban leaders would be together at the

annual July 26th celebration in Havana. After tho assassination,

those involved in the plot hope to seize the radio station

and call for American help, Cubela and othors associated

\\ with hin in this plot desire to know whether or not the

iz United States would help if the plot was sucdi:ssful and if

Sy
RB 105-191629 : I
SS SECRET SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

5

i —, 2-1821 (Espinosa)
@- 1105-77667 (Cubcia)
1 ~ 105-82793 (Almeida) Uxclud
FOB: js down sry

doclfeai t\cation eee
(16) : le aittc Le go,

HW 50953 DocId:32195998 Page 9


| fae ean :

|

PLANS TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN LEADERS

the United States would be ready to give thie assistance at

@ moment's notice as the plotters may be able to hold the

Covernnent for only a day or two. 7 4a
Ne wos in Spain for about twenty hours during his an

rceent trip and in that country he contacted other Cui 6

exiles Bnd earned that

charce | og ral,

ta Spain tox
<6

Ne requested to be put in contact with a representative -
of the Central Intellisenee Agency. wha was thoroughly foniliar
with the Cuban situation and knowledgeable concerning the
individuale involved in the plet.

NOTE: Above information contained in New York teletype
dated 6/2/65, captioned, "Victor Domindador Espinosa Hernandez,
Neutrality Matters; Internal Security = Cia."

@ Cut
he has eat Anse
mod "Totayu who was sent trom iavana
ks  witis
eS

Na
Bureau files indicate Espinosa in 1963 was involved

in a plan to bomb Cuba. Our investigation of this plot,which

was not a Central Intelligence Agency operation, resulted in

seizure of over a ton of dynamite and other material to be ~

used in making bombs.

Bureau files indicate Cubela has been previously
contacted in Europe by Central Intelligence Agency possibly
with a view towards taking some action against Cuban leaders.

re Almeida Bosque may be identical with person serving
as First Deputy Minister of the Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces.

Original of this memorandum being sent to Attorney
General (copy to Deputy Attorney General) by cover letter,
Xerox copy being furnished to White House and Director, Central

SBCRET

_ NOTE CONTINUED PAGE THREE
~2e '

wr TEs

HW 50953 DocId:32195998 Page 10


U.- Ration outsidn your mired tn res
\ nel without th
FBI NEY, YOR
fey
4-SOURGENT 6-2-655 JLY

ia
TO DIRECTOR 74/ .P-1821 = ENCODED

FROM NEW. x

: Seciaseily pets

VICTOR DONINDADOR*E§PINOSA HERNANDEZ,

: £00: TRPORMATTON

SEEITY TA UDC, Tike

HGP SOHN OTMUERWI tte

AT THE NEW YORK OFFICE ON. J TWO, SIXTYPIVE
A ane birrice rte SOF8S Pure ‘

STIGATOR EDWARD KAVAZANJIAN AND FURNISHED THE

. a 7 G >
NEURTRALITY MATTERS.,

cet T

ESPINOSA APPEA|

IN TNE COMPANY OF
FOLLOWING INFORMATION. es
ESPINOSA RETURNED TO NEU YORK ON FIVE TWENTYNINE LAST AFTER SPENDIN

ALS

WENTYSIX DAYS IN 7.21S, WHERE HE WAS IN CONTACT WITH INDIVI!

IN PLOT TO ASSASSINATE FIDEL_CASTRO_AND LEA

SONALITIES. ESPINosa SAID THAT HE HAD RECEIVED A MESSAGE

x

is tadgatedsnsaecan
Ade N FRANCE WITH ROLANDO CUBELA, WHO IS A LIFE LONG FRIEND OF :
SBE AND IS ALLEGED TO BE THE MAIN FIGURE IN THE PLOT. CUBELA
No S IS IDENTICAL WITH FORMER MAJOR ROLANDO L. CUBELA Y' SEGADES, WHO Is
Be RIEND OF FIDEL CASTRO. ESPINOSA FURTHER STATED THAT, -

) IN PARIS FOR.ABOUT JEN DAYS WITH AL3ERTO BLANCO, WHO 18
ee / Ge rcus DLC =

S ece iotzp wit THE cusan FOREIN Win?sTRY AND WAS ON AN INSPECTION

5 THE cUNOT REGOR
167 JUN

TRIS PLOT AND WENT 70 PARIS oN, THE é

Meroaena acts eomacere GM

sof

- 30, :
ZO JUNE 1498520809 5 5579

a | ef

25 MOS F2743

HW 50953 DocId:32195998 Page 11


‘<] watelend
SECREL
URGING OF CUBSELA, WHO HAS BEEN A LIFE-LONG FRIEND OF HIS.

PAGE TiO
HE ALSO
STATED THT INVOLVED IN THE PLOT WAS MAJOR JUAN ALMEIDA BOSQUE.
SPINOSA SAIS THAT CUBELA HAD RESIGNED FROM THE ARMED FORCES OF CUBA
AND IS NOW PRACTICING MEDICINE AT THE CALIXTO GARCIA HOSPITAL IN
HAVANS AND HAS A“HOME ADJACENT TO FIDEL CaSTRO-s aT VARADERO

ce nr mn cementite

a eee

"BEACH.

ESPINOSA ALSO ADVISED THAT HE WAS IN SPAIN FOR ONLY ABOUT TVENTY

WHERE KE CONTACTED OTHER CUBAN EXILES

AND LEARNED THAT,

P HOURS
WHO IS IN

"CERTAIN DEGREE

)
BECAUSE

s, NICK

POSSIBLY

TWO

testers

BW 50953

LA AND OTHERS

ese

Docla: 32195998

>)
cuarce (OF THE CIA OFFICE WAS COGNIZANT TO A

OF THIS PLOT, BUT THAT THE CUBANS DID NOT TRUSTY

HE HAD BEENGoNPRONISED IBY & CUBAN GIRL, WHOS

HO AD BEEN SENT FROM VANA FOR THE

THIS INDIVIDUAL IS

THE PLOT CALLS FOR THE ASSASSINATION OF =
ERNESTO "CHE" GUEVARA AND RAMNIRO VALDES.
INDIVIDUALS IS TO TAKE PLACE IN PUBLIC SO
SEE THAT THE LEADERS HAVE BEEN KILLED.

THE PLOTTERS

RADIO STATION AND CALL FOR AMERICAN HELP. ESPINOSA

ASSOCIATED WITH THE PLOT DESIRE TO KNOW

“aerate

Page 12

spacisig “yf

