# 124-10370-10011

## Page 1

124-10370-10011

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10370-10011

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-F6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

BH

TO : HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 12/24/1975

'PAGES:

417

SUBJECTS:

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, ASSASSINATION

MATTERS VOLUME V

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

1B; 4

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/04/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

INC FOLDER, LHM, MEMO, LET, STATEMENT, NEWS ARTICLES, TTY, R/S, NEWS

RELEASE, FD-302, S/S, CABLEGRAM, INSERT, ABSTRACT, NOTE, REPORT,

TRANSLATION, PAMPHLET

v9.1

NH 50953

43

Do01d:32319446

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PLAINTEXT

SECRET

TELETYPE

Mintz

TO SACS BALTIMORE

COLUMBIA

PHOENIX

FROM DIRECTOR FBI (62-116395)

SENSTUDY 75

1-Mr. R.

I callagher

FEBRUARY 26,

(Aten:

1

- Me.

Mr.

Nettles)

R. Wannall

w. O.

cregar

1976

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEST WHERE SHOWN

OIHIERWISE

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) HAS REQUESTED THAT

FORMER SPECIAL AGENTS ELDON DEAN RUDD, FLETCHER D. THOMPSON

AND ELBERT T. TURNER BE MADE AVAILABLE FOR STAFE: INTERVIEW

CONCERNING THEIR KNOWLEDGE OF. THE OSWALD MATTER AND THE

KENNEDY ASSASSINATION. BUREAU RECORDS INDICATE LAST KNOWN

ADDRESS FOR THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES TO BE: RUDD. POST OFFICE

BOX 873, SCOTTSDALE, ARIZONA 85252 OCTOBER, 1975);

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE QE CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT AMB 3/16/84

THOMPSON, 216 NOVAHO DRIVE, SPARTANBURG, SOUTH CAROLINA 29301

(NOVEMBER, 1975); AND TURNER, BOX 13A, THUNDERBIRD DRIVE,

LUSKY, MARYLAND 20657 (CURRENT ADDRESS). SAC OR ASAC OF

AS SANITIZED

RECIPIENT OFFICES IS REQUESTED TO PERSONALLY CONTACT THESE

FORMER EMPLOYEES AND ADVISE THEM OF SSC DESIRE TO INTERVIEW.

THEM. THESE EMPLOYEES, WITH THE EXCEPTION OF TURNER, SHOULD

BE ADVISED THAT IF SSC INITIATES CONTACT, THEY SHOULD, BEFORE

CONSENTING TO INTERVIEW, CONTACT BUREAU'S LACAL COUNSEL DIVISION

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

AND TIME ALFICES

TJM:mjg

(8)

SEE NOTE PAGE THREE

(P( 08

TR 10/26/84 dig

SEE REVERSE

SIDE FOR

CLASCATICATION

ACTIC

SECRET

Declassty in: QADR 10/10/54

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668 SLO/SOR

REASON:

e)

(JFK)

DECLASSIFY ON: X (1)

3/0/29

NH 50953 DocId:32319416 Page 2

---

## Page 3

таяоза

SECRET

PAGE THREE

62-116395

NOLE:

reterenced, bureau teletype >/212, was a general

introduction to all SACe conceming,

the SSC

Inquiry inco chis

Bureau's operations and this Bureau's cooperation with that

body. «Purpose of above intervieve is to zesolve a question

that has arisen conserning whether or not tapes|made by CIA

in connection wie Coverage afforded Cuban and Soviet Embassles

In Mexico City were ever in possession of Bureau personnel

and whether or not they were ever transported to the Dallas

Office from Mexico City by Bureau personnel 764) (S)

озясде

SECRETI

HW 50953-

DooId: 32319446

Page

3

---

## Page 4

F 32

5/26/66

anarl the Jollowing ta

ILEETIES

fe aarity

DIRECTOR

392-3267)

137-/90%

BOSTON

1492-45073

CHICAGO

54253993

3OB TOBIANGETEO (92-113)

OPEN ROSSELLE, ARALYARS LA FOUR PANCE SEE NINE POS

DOF GOS ANGELES.

RE LOS ANCIES DEL TO BUREAU MAY METE: FOUR LAST.

ROSSETTY INTERVLEMED ALONE OLMAY ASINTY TIVE

JASE BE SA-BAROUD F. DODGE POR APPROXDATKIDE ONE FALT HOUR.

ROSSELLE WAS ADVISED IU GENERAI, OF FADIS ENOLE TO FEI

CONERNING HIS TRUE IDENTITES ME WAS INFORED TEND FEE

HAD LARNED TRES THROUCH PAJRISTAIENO THOROUGE DISCREET

ENVSSTIGASTON DIVOLVEIG FEARGE OF NIGEROVE RECORDS: THAT

BUREAU'S NEXT SEX WOULD NORMALLY HE AN OPEN INTENSIVE

INVESTIGARIÓN INTO KIS FAST INDEE THE NAME FILIPPO SACCO;

WHAT VEE OF TIRAL ORADORT SOULD BE COTSIDENSS IN SUCH

IDD/nie

SEARCHED

1 7 137-2602

(2)

INORKED

FILLO

Postia son a cus

Foom

VIB

924/82955

HM 70953

D001d: 32319446

Page 1

---

## Page 5

4-22 (Rev. 1-28-75;

Federal Bureau of Investigaior

Records Section

SECRE

• 19-

_ Name Searching Unit, 4543 JEH-FBI Bldg.

Service Unit, 4654 JEH-FBI BIdg.

Forward to File Review

J Return to

Return Hen

Supervisor

Room Ext.

Type of References Requested:

•Regular Request (Analytical Search)

All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive References Only

I Main

References Only

Type of Search Requested:

Restricted to Locality of

Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

Buildup

_ Variations

Subject

Atencia (scros)

Birthdate & Place

utirreg

Address -

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUb/GEL

Localities.

SONY ON: 25X (4)

-3/22/49

RA

Date 12 = 11

Searcher .

= Initials

Prod.

FILE NUMBER

SERIAL

184-1.3006

52-53238-2

62-11 2647-24

105-82555-5669

2,94

1162

3062

2101

2238-

2311

2336

2332

2344,

2 388

3535 r

3300°

HE 3257-

133096/29

NN 70953

Do01d: 32319446

Page 5

---

## Page 6

4-22a (Rev. 11-17-59)

NUMEROUS REFERENCE

Supervisor.

Lin 9/ seven

R#--

- Date

10-11

Prod.

_Room -

eorche

Initial L1

FILE NUMBER

Pedro .

SERIAL

64-42305-49p22

Pedro

40-84522-1

(54-330-205- 3436)

2=1159-

113

105-135-158-135

64-22914- 15-

64-20095-37

64-200 - 212-44 6p2

06-1486

100-345926-1

+4-330-211-36057611

105-156605-8

agaro 300 rele for Peasa!

mar hates need

more. Inpro,

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32319416 Page 6

---

## Page 7

2/24/76

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-82555)

FROM:

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (105-3702)

SUBJECT:

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

IS - R

Re telephonic conversation with SA SEYMOK F

PHILLIPS 2/23/76.

Enclosed are copies of the following communications

as maintained in Legat file 105-3702 as requested by Mr.

PHILLIPS:

Memo of SA ELDON D. RUDD to SAC Dallas dated 11/23/63;

Mexico City cable to Bureau dated 11/25/63;

Legat Mexico letter dated 12/11/63.

(5)

MX. THOMAS POLGAR. _

Station Chief offCIA,

advises his

oftice has retained no documents pertaining to

subject and do not even have a reference to him in their

indices. He said

specifically they have no information

regarding subject's taped conversation.

3 - Bureau (Enc. 3)

(1 - Foreign Liaison Unit)

1 • Mexico City

JJW: sIs

(4)

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668500/gil

Maroon 10 e

DECLASSIFY ON: * CR

3/2/49

ATT. INPORLAZION CONTAINED

HETTUN IS UNCIASSIFI D

OTHERWISE

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32319446 Page 7

---

## Page 8

17.

a Rovernment of

Ganata. 'It in Doid o

in 1

for use solel

Eg the

intelligence community of the

receiving Government

and that it not be

declassified

without the express permission

el Is Government of Canai

FRIORITY OITS DECIO CONFIDENTIAL

RIMP LIAISON OFFICE

2450 MASSACHUSETTS AVE 10

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20008

OUR FEE: 25WLO-IC -44

LO WASH

P5/72379 THE FOLLOWING TELEX WAS RECEIVED FROM OUR A DIVISION

LiG O! THE & DEC 75. QUOTE: 'AT-21:55 HAS 3 DEC 75 A FIONE CALL WAS

RECEIVED AT INE "'A'' DIV. DESK FROM ATIALE PERSON WHO STATED HIS

HAVE WAS SAMUEL VOGEL AND MIS NOME ADDRESS 10 SUTTON PLACE 4&YD.

SI. I YORK CITY NEW YORK. VOGEL ADVISED THAT HE HAD INFORMATICN

NEGARDING THE ASSASINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY AND ALSO :

THE FUTURE ASSASINATION OF TED KENNEDY. HE WISHED TO SEE A ME BLA

OF THE ROP IN THIS REGARD. VOGEL STATED ME WAS PRESENTLY STAYING

IN ROOM 703 OF THE OTIANA HILTON HOTZL. WHEN QUESTIONED AS TO THENS

BEING NO HILTON IN OTTAWA NE INSISTED THAT WAS WHERE NE WAS AND

HE WAS IN OTTAWA. SIATED HE WAS FAMILIAR WITH THE STREETS IN CTTAMA

BUT COULD NOT REVENZER THE STREET THE HOTEL WAS O. INDICES CHECHED

NEGATIVE. CHECK MADE AT CHATEAU LAURIER HOTEL WHICH IS A HILTO:

CHAI! ANU THEY HAVE NO RECORD OF SUCH PERSON STAYING AT HOTEL.

CHECK MADE WITH OTHER MAJOR HOTELS IN OTTAWA WERE NEGATIVE. YOU

HAY WISH TO CONFIND AUTHENTICITY CE NEW YORK ADDRESS GIVEN. DURING

PHONE. CALL THE VOICE SOUNDED DISTANT AND THERE WAS CONSIDERASLE

INTERFERENCE ON THE LINE."' UNGUOTE.

IT WOULD SE APPRECIATED IF YOU MIGHT LIAISE WITH THE APFROPRIATE

U.S. AUTHORITIES I! AM. EFFORT TO OSTAIN ALL AVAILABLE BIOGRAPHICAL

SATA CONCETMINC THE SUBJECT AND ADVISE IF KE IS CONSIDERZO E

THREGT TO V.I.F.S.

---

## Page 9

PLAIN TEX

SECRET

29/12/75

N5• Nottion

Motorbatorio

TO% SACE, 20E0 TORI

MANANDREA

070

LUCAS, OCTATA

20O A PLACTOR, PRE

UNSUR, ARA SAN VOGEL, ALLECED INFORIATICN REGARDING JOE P.

KENNEDT ASSASSINATIC, ALLIGED JIFORNATION REGARDING ATTEMPERD

#X TRISTIPE, 13/4/78.

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTEO POLICE (ROMP) TZAISON OFFICE,

FABIONOTON, DO, BAS ADVISED TEXIR THAT ON DECENDER 3, 1975,

ECIR "AS DIVISION RECEIVED A TELEPLONE CALL FRON A MALE PESSON

WHO CENTED TIE RAS BANTEL VOCEL, 10 SUTION FLACE, «RND STREET,

CALLER STAISO US HAS INTORMALION REGARDING

ASSASSINATION CE PRESTINE KENNEDE AND ALSO A TUTORE

ASSASSINATION CE TED KEN FOXING MISLED TO SEE

BOR NO SAID DE WAS STATING IN BOON 7OS CE OSTANA HELDOS

MORE CAL: SOUNDED DISTANE NITE CONSIDRRABLS TH

PANICE ON

THE LINE.

NO HOTEL NAMED HILTON IN DETANA, DUT (S)

(8)

See Nate

AgO 3.

CIASSIFIED EV: 5(L8 SLO/Sel

REASON 1.5

DECLASSIPY ON X CS)

PFICS 1/22/99

SECRET

HW 50953

DooId: 32319446

Page 9

---

## Page 10

DUCE THO

CHATTAN LAURENE NOTEL XE PART OF TEAR CLATU.PNO, RECORO

LOCATIO CE VOGEL AT TEND BOTEL OR OCHER MAJOR HONKUS, TI

OFTANA - BOMP FOOTESTED ALL AVAILABLE PZOCRARUICAL DATA

CONCUNNING VOBEL AND DESIES TO CA ADYZEED LE

13 COL

SIDECEO A THREAT TO TIPIS.

COR 170 TERMATTER CURECEIVING OTE CES UTAR TEA

NET YOUS, BATKARNCKD TELETYRE CORTAINS SINTLAR INPORIATICIR

RECEDING VOGEL MECHLYKO DECENTER 4, 1970, POON US NELITARY

ACANDIY, TEST POINT, MEN YORK, THERE YOORE HAD TELETHONED CH

рЕСЕОСя 3, 1075.

USES NUADQUARTERS ADVIENS VOGEL'S RIAL NANE IS IRVINC

AND TAVING, CROGENAIEN. AS CE

Z-R, BRONX, NEY TORE ME 1S A CAUCASIAN MALE) BENT AUGUST 30,

1940, 11

TAS A

ЗАСТОГУ ОГ МЕНТЛИ РКОВ AN НО CONBIDIDD DEYOUND КАТИКС

TATION. IN 1965 11E ATTENPTED

LO BURN HIS ECUE DONE AND H

WAS TICLENT IN THE PAST.

TOME LOCALS ANO THREWIN VOGEL RIGARDING RATT IN

TORNATIO

XAVE CONCEINING THE ASPASSENATICT OF PEROLEDIT

MONTO UNINCE NOSTARS TO POENURSVESY DIRTAR NY GUY OSINAN

OUTATE ANT INZORATIOT REGARDING VOCULA

NOTIFT OLDER APPROPRTATE AUTICEITIES, NOTISE FATIG, ALEXANDELA,

ALTO N5O, AND LEGAT, OTTAWA, CURSE POLLCUED BY LAK,

NEBULOUS NATUKE 9F INTORNATION, ALEXANDEIA AND

NEO BOLD NOTEFICATON OF APPOORINE AUSESHERING TH ANONAN

NH 50953

DooId: 32319446

Page

10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

ONTXL APOTTIONNE ERRORRATICH RECEIVED POOL NEU TORE OPTICE

CALSALON

(8)

Tro coptes ca RaD teletype secolved troP01 Listeon

office 12/11/79.

f1lo number 75 TLO-11G-ES) Information

DAGE

handigun

Freud

recesred fros 34 Don Bei

SECRET

NW 50953

DOOId: 32319446

Page

11

---

