# 124-10278-10391

## Page 1

124-10278-10391|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10278-10391

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-72

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/28/1963

"PAGES:

15

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, MEMBERS, OBA, BOATS, AIRPLANE, MIL ACT, RAID,

CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC NOTE, MEMO, LHM

v9.1

HY 50953

DocId: 32301556

Page 1

---

## Page 2

i Farigo 2

Col

1163

(NI)

1 97-4474

SECRET

REVIRGET AY EVISK TASR FORCE

9.20.97 det

1 • Liaison

1 - Nasca

January 2, 1964

ALL. INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

I RELEASE IN PART

MOVA CHIS INSURRECIONAL

RECUPERACION REVOLICIONARIO

2/18195 SP&MAC GAT

Classified by SF6BTHECL

Declassify on: OADR91 1/85

Previous Ipformation has indicated that the

captioned anti-Castro organization was planning to carry

out 'à bombing raid over Cuba from Bimini in the Bahana

Islands. The alrplane scheduled to be used in the raid

was located at the Broward International Airport,

Fort Inuderdale, Floride, and two boats were scheduled

to be used in the operation.

On December 26, 1963, our source in this matter

7.2388

who has furnished reliable information in the past identified

the airplane to be used in the raid as a Piper Aztec,

Number 4811-P, and indicated that the final practice fligit

had been scheduled for that day. In addition, our source

learned that one of the boats to be used in this operation

was scheduled to leave Miant, Florida, between 5:30 p.m.

and 6800 p.I. a December 27,

1963, for Bimini with the crew

for the airplane and the bombs atoard.

On December 27, 1963, our source advised that the

AELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DEAMAL

E

28-foot boat was identified as the "Ebb Tide" and the

Bureau of Custons in Miant made plans to seize the boats

to prevent the raid.

The Pederal Aviation Agency in Miani on December 28,

Tolson -

1963, advised that the above-mentioned Piper Aztec airplane

Belmont -

dohr

piloted by William I. Scherar took off from Broward

Casper -

International Airport that day headed for Bimini. The

Sallahan

Conrad

Jureau of Custons In Miani advised that the two boats

JeLoach -

mentioned above were seized by Customs representatives on

Svans -

iale

the evening of December 28, 1963, at a rendezvous point off

ulivan tbe Florida coast. Four bombs were found aboard the boats.

rotter -

_VHN: kiw (17)

ale. Room

Rew

andy

MAIL. ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

97-4474-12

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

SECRET. Mon

ENCLOSURE

50953

DooId: 32301556

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SEGRET

1 - Liaison

1 - Nasca

REC CNE) 97-4674

12

CIA HAS NO COU

DECLASSIFICATIONS AND/OR

RELEASE OF GIA INLORMATIO

EX-102

0 -6

January 2, 1964

ALL INFORMATIÓN CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Director

DATE 1/1/85

BY SPEBJA/GL

Bureau of Intelligence and Research

Department of State

From:

John Edgar Hoover, Director

= Subject: MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL. DE RECUPERACION

REVOLUCIONARIO

2-19-98

INTERNAL SECURITE - CUBA

CLASSIFIED BY 54US BESPERE MATTERS

2/21/95

SpEMALIGAT

DECLAEGIRY ON. 25X

(JFK)

Reference is made to our letter dated

becomper 294 pelease

1963, With enclosure.

Attached is the original of a menorandum dated

January 2, 1964. A copy of this menorendun is attached

for each of the other recipients.

6 JAN=

COMM - FBI

This will confirn the inforation set forth in

paragraph two of the enclosure which was orally furnished

to Mr. Guy Drennan, Departnent of State

-Ar. Govard Beaubien

Central Intelligence Agency, Major H. B. Nelson, Defense

Intelligence Agency: Mir. Lester Johnson, Bureau of Customs;

Mr. Robert Lally, Federal Aviation Agency; and Mr. James

Weldon, Internal Security Division, Department of Justice,

by Mr. A. J. Decker of this Bureau on December 26, 1963-

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahani

Conradi

DeL oach

Fals

Rosen:

ullivan

petter

DIxi

andy

This will confirm the information set forth in

-paragraph three of the enclosure which was orally furnished

Rito Mr. E. N. Powers, Department of State

® Central IntellAgence Agency

• Inte-ligence Agengy, by Mr. J. J. Mechan of this Bureau,

I and to Mr. Johnson, Bureau of Customs? MepLally, Federal

Aviation Agency; and Mr. Weldon of the Department of Justice

Dy tr. " 2. Mclonnell also of thes

Bureau.

The oral

onenipatter of this date das note do Mererber, 28, 1469.

ANy 498415)

MAIL ROOM LA

TELETYPE UNITL

penne wew

HW 50953

DooId: 32301556

Page 3

---

## Page 4

(NI) 97-4474

ALL INTORIATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SECRE!

REVIEWED SV

EBWIFK TASR FORCE

9.20.92 dat

* 4,00 IN FLL

ED RELEASE IN PART

MOV INTEN

I10 INSURRECIONAL

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO

1 - Liaison

1 - Nasca

January 2, 1964

211895 Sp8 mAC CAT

Classified by 26 BIBiECe

Declassify on: OADR4/u1/85

(JFK)

Previous Information has indicated that the

captioned anti-Castro organization was planning to carry &

out a bombing raid over Cuba from Bimini in the Bahama

Islands. The airplane scheduled to be used in the raid

was located at the Broward International Airport,

Fort Lauderdale, Florida, and two boats were scheduled

to be used in the operation.

22. 2812

On December 26, 1963, our source in this mattere

who has furnished rellable information in the past identi

the airplane to be used in the raid as a Piper Aztec,

Number 4811-P, and indicated that the final practice fligh

had been scheduled for that day. In addition, our source

learned that one of the boats to be used in this operation

was scheduled to leave Miani, Florida, between 5:30 p.m.

and 6:00 p.m., December 27, 1963, for Bimini with the crew

for the airplane and the bombs aboard.

ed

RELEASE

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

On December 27, 1963, our source advised that the

operation had been postponed until December 26, 1963, and

that an 18-foot boat and a 28-foot boat would be used.

The

28-foot boat was identified as the "Ebb Tide" and the

Bureau of Customs in Miami made plans to seize the boats

to prevent the raid.

The Federal Aviation Agency In Miami on December 28,

Tolson:

1963, advised that the above-mentioned Piper Aztec airplane

Selmont

piloted by William T. Scherar took off from Broward

Kohr

International Airport

that day headed for Bimini. The

Callahan Bureau of Customs in Miami advised that the two boats

eLach mentioned above were seized by Customs representatives on

vale

losen

the evening of December 28, 1963, at a rendezvous point off

the Florida coast. Four bombs were found aboard the boats.

ovell

rotter

- VHN: klw (17)

ale. Boon:

oines

7-44

SEE NOTE PACE TWO

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT L

(SECRET.

ENCLOSURE

HW 50953 DoeId:32301556 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MOVIMIENIO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO

The Bureau of Customs in Miami subsequently advised

that the boats were seized about three and one half miles east

of South Miami Beach.

The following individuals were aboard:

Cervello Cutlerrez y Concepcion, Jesus Sanchez Martinez,

Francisco Hernandez y Fernandez, Daniel Orlando Ramirez,

and

Evello Alpizar Perez.

Except for Hernandez and Alpizar all of the men had

been recently discharged from the U. S. Army at Fort Jackson,

South Carolina. All except Alpizar admitted being members of

the captioned organization.

NOTE :

original to State, copies to CIA, Army, Navy.

Air Force, DIA, Customs, INS, FAA, Coast Guard, Yeagley, Copie:

separately bertment of shed John courtes, seourd ator, Cubap

Affairs, Department of State, by Courier Service and|

Copy furnished Situation Room, White House, by liaison confirming

data orally furnished Mr. John Guion on 12/28/63 by SA J. J. Meehan.

= 2 =

SECRET

528-10280

HH 50953 DocId: 32301556 Page 5

---

## Page 6

5-113 (1-10-611

Domestic Intelligence Division

INFORMATIVE NOTE

Date 12-28-63

Attached deals with planned anti-

Castro bombing raid over Cuba to be

carried out from Bimini, Bahama

Islands (British territory) • It is

now scheduled for 12-28-63. Through

our informant, Alpizar, bombing

crew pilot, we have identified

plane and 2 boats to be utilized.

We have detailed plans concerning

route and rendezvous points and

Iams has alerted Customs, Customs

will exercise seizure powers to

prevent raid.

We have disseminated

pertinent information in attached

telephonicaLly to customs, rad

Department, State, ClA, Defense

Intelligence Ager

Situatio INFORMA

CON

JJM

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 9/1/85

BYSPOBTAIGCL

HW 50953 DooId:32301556 Page 6

---

## Page 7

5-193 (P-T0-8T)

Domestic Intelligence Division

IN FORMATIVE NOTE

Dãto-12-28-63

Attached deals with planned anti-

Castro bombing raid over Cuba to be

cared out from Bimini, Bahama

Islands (British territory). It is

now scheduled for 12-28-63. Through

our informant, Alpizar, bombing

crew pilot, we

have identified

plane and

2 boats to be utilized.

We have detailed plans concerning

route and rendezvous points and

Maani has alerted Customs. Customs

will exercise seizure powers to

prevent raid.

..We have disseminated

pertinent information in attached

colephonically to Customs, FAA,

Department, State, CIA, Defense

Intelligence Agency ang YMACGAi

House

situate iNFORMATION CONTAINEU(JFK

JIN HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 9/1/85

BYSABIA/ACL

HM 50953 DooId: 32301556

Page 7

---

## Page 8

(SECRET

COMMON THEN

DEC 2 8 196

TELETYPE

Trina

ni. cl.1000

Mr. Casper.

er. Callah

machi

Mr. Ering

Mi. Rosen

EVA SU Lvan

Mt.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy

URGENT

12-28-63

4-27 AM.

EST

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 197-44741

FROM SAC, MIAMI: /105-28551

4 PG

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUC IONART

[MIRR/ PAREN, IS DASH CUBA, AM.

NEUTRALiTY MATTER

RE MTANI TEL DECEMBER THE 26, A 363 PHRER.

CONTAYNED

HOREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

WISE

BUREAU TELEPHONE CALL BY SUPERVISOR ANDREW J. DECKER

196.1

TO MIAMI

DECEMBER

THEM EVEN SIXTYTHREE.

10÷30

1863

AI FEN THIRTY AM DECEMBER TWENTYSEVIN STATYTHREE EVELIO

ALPIZAR PEREZ (PROTECT/ ADVISED THAT EARLIER SAME DAY, DOCTOR

ORLANDO

BOSCH AVILA, HEAD OF MIRR SHOWED ALPIZAR AN EIGHTEEN

FOOT

BOAT,

FL. FIVE ONE ONE SEVEN FOUR, WITH PORTY HORSEPOWER

OUTBOARA MOTOR LOCATED ON CANAL AT ONE ONE SEX ZERO NORTH

MENT SEX AVENUE ROAD, MIAMI, WHICH WILL BE USED ON THIS

BoPERATION.

OADR

BOSCH TOLD ALPIZAR TO MEET HIM AT THREE PM DECEMBER

2/17195

Classified by sa

§ THEN SEVEN FOR FINAL INSTRUCTIONS, HOWEVER, WHEN THIS MEETING

TOOK PLACE BOSCH ANNOUNCED HE HAD POSTPHONED THIS OPERATION

12/28/63

UNTIL TWELVE

TWENTYEIGHT SH

KIRE REC297-4474-92

EX-102

5 JAN 9 1964

063164

SECRETI

HH 50953

DoeId: 32301556

Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRED

PAGE TWO

27

AT FEN PM DECEMBER TWENTYSEVEN ALPIZAR REPORTED

THAT HE ACCOMPANIED BOSCH AT SEVEN PM SAME DAY TO THE

28

TWENTYEIGHT FOOT BIG BOAT WHICH WILL BE USED THIS OPERATION.

WILLIAM JOHNSON WHO WAS ABOARD THIS BOAT AT BAKER-S HAULOVER

DOCKS BRIEFED ALPIZAR ON BOATS MOTOR, RADIO, AND OPERATION

THIS BOAT IS THE QUOTE"

EBB TIDE"END QUOTE WHICH IS UNDER

TWENTY FOUR HOUR SURVILIENCE BY US CUSTOMS.

BOSCH UNFOLDED TO ALPIZAR FOLLOWING PLAN OF ACTION

RELATING TO SCHEDULED BOMBING RAID OF OIL REFINERY AT

NUEVITAS, CUBA, FROM BIMINI, BAHAMA ISLANDS, AT ELEVEN AM

DECEMBER FENTENCH GiTHREE. BOSCH WILL ACCOMPANY

ALPIZAR TO THE FIREEN FOOT FL

FIVE ONE ONE SEVEN DAGN H

AND ALPIZAR WILL PROCEED ALONE IN BOAT DOWN MIAMI RIVER

TO A SPECIFIC POINT WHERE HE WILL PICK UP A YOUNG CUBAN

WOMAN, IDENTITY UNKNOWN® TOGETHER THEY WILL PROCEED TO A

SPECIFIC POINT OFFSHORE OF MIAMI BEACH NEAR GOVERNMENT

CUTS THEY WILL FISH UNTIL ABOUT FIVE PM WHEN THEY WILL

PROCEED TO A SPECIFIC POINT NEAR BY ISOLATED NORTH SHORE

SECRET.

HH 50953 DocId: 32301556 Page

'g.

---

## Page 10

'SECRET

PAGE THREE

OF VIRGINIA KEY WHERE THEY WILL MEET SEVERAL CUBANS INCLUDING

DR. BOSCH AND DANIEL ORLANDO RAMIREZ, BOMB EXPERT.

FIFTY POUND BOMBS

WILL BE LOADED IN THE BOAT. THE GIRL AND

DR. BOSCH WILL REMAIN ON SHORE. ALPIZAR, RAMIREZ, AND

ANÖTHER CUBAN, IDENTITY UNKNOWN, WILL PROCEED IN EIGHTEEN

FOOT BOAT WITH THE BOMBS TO RENDEVOUS POINT NEAR THE LAST

BUOY DESIGNATED AS QUOTE "BELL TWO A DASH DASN FL DASH R"

END QUOTE LOCATED OFF GOVERNMENT CUT CHANNEL.

HERE THEY WILL MEET THE QUOTE'I

EBB TIDE"END QUOTE

ST NAMe НАКЛА

SKIPPERED BY CUBAN CAPTAIN FNU HERNANDEZ WHO IS SCHEDUALEI

TO HAVE DEPARTED FROM BAKER-S RAULOVER AT THE PM SAME DAY

ALONE TO FISH•

EACH BOAT WILL SIGNAL THREE TIMES WITH FLASHLIGHT IN

APPROACHING THIS RENDEVOUS: AFTER BOMBS AND CREW OF SMALL

BOAT TRANSFER TO THE TWENTY RGHT FOOT BOAT THE LATTER WILL

95

PROCEED IN A NINETYFIVE DEGREE COURSE TOWARD BIMINI, TOWING

SMALL BOAT• ALPIZAR WILL BE IN COMMAND OF OPERATION FROM

THIS POINT ON. •

SECRET

• ?

11899

HW 50953

DooId:32301556

page

10

roman

---

## Page 11

SECRETI

PAGE FOUR

ABOVE FACTS IMMEDIATELY FURNISHED IN DETAIL TO US

CUSTOMS, MIAMI, WHICH IS COORDINATING ITS ACTIVITIES WITH

US COAST GUARD TO SEIZE BOTH BOATS AFTER THER BOMBS ARE

LOADED ABOARD THE LARGER ONE. CUSTOMS ALSO PLANS TO SEIZE

8

THE PIPER AZTEC PLANE, N FOUR EIGHT GNE ONE P, UPON

ITS RETURN TO BROWARD COUNTY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT FROM

BIMINI, THIS PLANE IS SCHEDULED TO DEPART BROWARD AIRPORT

DECEMBER THEME ON SIXTYTHREE FOR BIMINI PURSUANT TO

BOSCH-S ORIGINAL PLAN IN THIS CASE.

WITH REFERENCE BUREAU INSTRUCTIONS MIAMI MAINTAINING

CLOSE LIASON WITH CUSTOMS AND ARRANGEMENTS HAVE BEEN MADE

TO IMMEDIATELY INTERVIEW INDIVIDUALS PICKED UP BY CUSTOMS

AT TIME OF SEISURE OF BOATS AND WILL ALSO INTERVIEW

BOSCH, WILLIAM JOHNSON, AND OTHERS IMPLICATED FOR POSSIBLE

VIOLATION NEUTRALITY STATUS. MIAMI WILL OBTAIN SIGNED

STATEMENTS WHENEVER POSSIBLE. ALL POSSIBLE CAUTIONS

BEING TAKEN TO PROTECT SECURITY ALPIZAR.

MIAMI WILL TELEPHONICALLY NOTIFY BUREAU RESULTS

AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.

17.0073

END AND ACK PLS

WA 443 AM OK FBI WA: OS

TU AND DISC

SECRET

"" =

NH 50953 DocId: 32301556 Page

11

• a

---

## Page 12

S. DEP

31)

OF JUSTICE

CONMINICA

SECTION

DEC 2 8 1963

TELETYPE

Nos.

hxx.

Mir.

tes:

Treze ae

!".

• r-1

Mr. Rc--g

FEr.

Sus ..

Mix, Margl

Ma. Pruiar

Tele. Room

Hohmos

Miss Gandy-

URGENT

12-25-63

1-27 AM

EST

LVA

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 18744744

FROM SAC, MIAMI /105-28531

* PO

BOVIMIENTO INSERRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA PAREN

MIRR PAREN, IS DASH CUBA NM.

Epiterve

RE MIAMI TEL DECEIBER TUENTYSIX SIXTYTHREE.

marfilect

BUREAU TELEPHONE CALL BY SUPERVISOR ANDREN S. DECKER

TO MIARII DECEMBER TUENTYSEVEN SIXTYTHREE.

AT TEN THIRTY AM DECEUBER TUENTYSEVEN SIXTYTUREE EVELIO

ALPIZAR PEREZ /PROTECT/ ADVISEE THAT EARLIER SAME DÀY, DOCTOR

ORLANDO DOSCH AVILA, HEAD OF MIRR SHOUED ALPÉZAR AN EIGHTEEN

FOOT SOAT, FL. FIVE ONE ONE SEVEN FOUR, WITH FORTY HORSEPOUER

OUTBOARD MOTOR LOCATED ON CANAL. AT ONE ONE SIX XERO NORTH

WEST TWENTYSIX AVENUE ROAD, MIAMI, WRICH WILL BE USED ON THIS

OPERATION*

BOSCH TOLD ALPIZAR TO MEET HIM AT THREE PM DEGENDER

TUENTYSEVEN FOR EINAL LUSTRUCTIONS, HOWEVER; WHEN THIS REETING

TOOK PLACE BOSCH ANNOUNCED HE HAD POSTPHONED THIS OPERATIÓN

INTIL TUELVE INENTYEIGHI SIXTYTHREE.

Orig-Belne

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN S UNCLASSIFIED

-Dalton to

HH 50953 DocId:32301556 Page 12

---

## Page 13

PAGE TUO

AT TEN PM DECEMBER TUENTYSEVEN ALPIZAR REPORTED

THAT HE ACCOMPANIED BOSCH AT SEVEN. PM SAME DAY TO THE

TWENTYRICHT. FOOT BIE BOAT WHICH WILL BE USED THIS OPERATION.

• WILLIAM JOHNSON WHO WAS ABOARD THIS BOAT AT BAKER-S HAULOVER

DOCKS BRIEFED ALPIZAR ON BOATS MOTOR, RADIO, AND OPERATION

THIS BOAT IS THE QUOTE EBB TIDE END QUOTE UHICH IS UNDER

TWENTYFOUR HOUR SURVILIENCE BY US CESTORS+

BOSCH UNFOLDED TO ALPIZAR FOLLOUING PLAN OF ACTION

RELATING TO SCHEDULED BOMBING RAID OF OIL REFINERY AT

NUEVITAS, CUBA, FROM BIMINI, BAHANÀ ISLANDS, AT ELEVEN AM

DECENBER TUENTVZICHT SIXTYTHREE, BOSCH UILL ACCONPANY

ALPIZAR TO THE EIGHTEEN FOOT FL FIVE ONE ONE SEVEN DASH M

AND ALPIZAR WILL PROCEED ALONE IN BOAT DOWN MIAMI RIVER

TO A SPECIFIC POINT WHERE HE VILL PICK UP A YOUNG CUBAN

VOGAN, IDENTITY UNKNOUN, TOGETHER THEY WILL PROCEED TO A

SPECIFIC POINT OFFSHORE QI MIAMI BEACH NEAR GOVERNIENT

CUT THEY WILL FISH UNTIL ABOUT FIVE PM WHEN THEY VILL

PROCEED TO A SPICIFIC POINT NEAR BY ISOLATED NORTH SHORE

HW 50953

DocId: 32301556 'Page 13

=80.

---

## Page 14

PAGE FOUR

ABOVE FACTS INMEDIATELY FURNISHED IN DETAIL TO US

CUSTOS, MIAMI, WHICH IS COORDINATING ITS ACTIVITIES WITH

US COAST GUARD TO SEIZE BOTH BOATS AFTER THER BOMBS ARE

LOADED ABOARD THE LARGER ONE. CUSTONS ALSO PLANS TO SEIZE

THE PIPER AZTEC PLANE, N FOUR EIGHT ONE ONE PO UPON

ITS RETURN TO BROWARD COUNTY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT FROM

BIMINI, THIS PLANE IS SCHEDULED

TO DEPART BROWARD AIRPORT

DECEMBER TWENTVEIGHT SIXTYTRREE FOR BIMINI PURSUANT TO

BOSCHS ORICINAL PLAN IN THIS CASE.

WITH REFERENCE BURKAU INSTRUCTIONS MIAMI MAINTAINING

CLOSE LIASON WITH CUSTOMS AND ARRANGEMENTS HAVE BEEN MADE

TO INMEDIATELY INTERVIEW INDIVIDUALS PICKED UP BY CUSTOMS

AT TIME OF SEISURE OF BOATS AND WILL ALSO INTERVIEN

BOSCH, WILLIAM JOHNSON, AND OTHERS IMPLICATED FOR POSSIBLE

VIOLATION NEUTRALITY STATUS+ MIAMI WILL OBTAIN SIGNED

STATEMENTS WHENSVER POSSIBLÉ, ALL POSSIBLE CAUTIONS

BEING TAKEN TO PROTECI SECURITY ALPIZAR,

MIAHT WILL TELEPRONICALLY NOTITY BUREAU RESULTS

AS SOON AS POSSIBLE

END AND ACK PLS

UA 4-H3 AM OK FBI

TA J3

TO AND DISC

HW 50953

DocId: 32301556 Page 15

---

