# 124-10067-10272

## Page 1

124-10067-10272

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10067-10272

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-82555-5755

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

GRAY, R. J. JR.

TO: LEAVITT, T. W.

TITLE:

DATE: 02/24/1978

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPER, EXCELSIOR, ARTICLES, FBI, OPERATIONS, MX

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

06/30/1997

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

06/08/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NH 50953

DooId:32282612

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

FROM

200/15P

JFK

9803

Goosened by a

Dacizssity on: OGER

9803 RDD/RSR

93 Гг

"AL FORN NO, 10

3073 LATION

GÉA FEAR ABI CFRI 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOT:

-NMENT®

Memorandum

Mr. I. W. Leavitt Thil

CONFIE TIM

A sвeс..

Dop."

1

Dep. AD Inv.

Mr.

J.

Adams

Asst Dies.

MI -

J.

1

J. McDermott

Adm Ser.

MI.

H. N. Bassett

Crim. Arava.

Fin. & Pers

1 - MI. D DATE: MoOre,

JI.

ident. 1

2/24/78

Intell.

R. J. Gray,

J

SCONFIDEN

1

1

• Mr.

MI.

-

Mr.

-

Mr.

- Mr.

Laboratory

T.

Leavitt

Legal Caun:

R.

J.

Gray, Jr.

Plan. & In

Roc Migne.

J.

S.

Leo

• Spee Inv.

J.

F:

Whalen

Toch. Sorvs.

R.

J.

WEE HARVEY

OSWALD

oglesby,

Training -

JI Public Affa On=

Telephone Rm..

MaKeiS iS UNCLASSIF LED

NKCAPT WICKE SHOWI

CUNTHS NO OBJECTION TO

DECI

ON AND/OR,

PURPOSE:

A NFORMA

KHAS DOCUMENT SOM

To highlight the need to furnish prior Inormacion y

concerning FOIA releases to Legat, Mexico City, or other

Legats lue to delicate relations

maintained by our legal

Attaches with foreign governments (9)(U)

EXA

DETAILS:

Legat, Mexico City, by teletype 12/2/77, advised

that material released under FOIA on 11/21/77 was carried

as a number of headline stories by Mexico City newspapers

beginning 11/23/77, and on 11/30/77, the leading Mexico City

@daily newspaper, "Excelsior" began a series of front page

Darticles.

The stories highlighted sensational allegations

On Dabout FBI operations in Mexico and other statements drawn

= 00

from the released material.

Legat, Mexico City had not

been furnished advance notification of the release of the

DADR

and at that time strongly recommended advance

Do notification be made to all foreign offices when FOIA dis

no closures were to be made pertaining to countries within

Classified bu

Declassily on:

the respective territories of the Legats. Although

excellent cooperation in investigative matters has always

been furnished Legat, Mexico City by Mexican authorities,

@ the Government of Mexico is particularly sensitive about

ny intormation being known publicly concerning this

cooperation} CIA sent a courier to Mexico City with copie.

of the release after articles appeared in the newspapers,

and Legat, Mexico City was able to obtain a copy of the

release from CIA and

DIlet the American Ambassador

who

was being questioned by the Mexican Government do:

5520754

SEE ADDENDUM FOIPA: BRANCH PAGE 3

(10)

5T:131.

Classified by 129/9

Except from CDS

Date vi Duclassifick

REC M

Category.

Siz ladofiniie

"Mer

On 03T

TINUED OVER

MAY 5

1978

8.191

Bay U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NH 50953 DocId: 32282612 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memorandum to Mr. T. W. Leavitt

Re:

Lee Harvey Oswald

CONFIDEXTIAL

In the above instance, Legat, Mexico City would not

Fortunate for the

Legat, CIA placed enough importance

it flown to Mexico by courier.. In this instance, the

Legat's office was in real jeopardy. The Government of

Mexico will cooperate

as long as the cooperation is not

made a matter of public record. The Mexican Government is

very nationalistic, and makes every

effort in public to

appear free of U. S. 1nIluence

hich was sent 1/15/78Axom CIA Headquarters to their chie

of Station

concerning release under the c

FOIA of documents in captioned matter.

expressed his concern over the adverse publicity likely to

result and the impact on our relations with Mexico. He

again cited the need to advise in advance the U. S. Ambassador

in Mexico City and the Legat's contäcts there, which is made

difficult by the insufficient lead time, granted in this

matter» By teletype to all SACs and Legats dated 1/16/78,

notification was made that the above material was to be

released 1/18/78.

The two above-cited instances point out the necessity

of prior notification and the dire consequences of failure

to notify the host government and the American Embassy concerned.

Failure to properly inform the American Ambassador in advance

possibly be avoided.

Failure to promptly provide similar in-

sensitivities of the host country government at (U)

RECOMMENDATION :

U That in order to avoid placing our foreign operations

in jebpardy, future releases effecting our Legats be coordinated

advance with the Intelligence Division.

APPROVED:

Dirogter

ABBeR. DIr.

Đem AD Inv

Adm. Serv,

Crim. Inv. A

Ident

nail Th

Laboratory

Legal Cour:

Plan, & MAor

Ros. Mant.

NH 50953 DocId: 32282612 Page 3

---

