# 124-10190-10078_4

## Page 1

124-10190-10078

I - Me.

A.

3.

No Cray

Redfield

1/19/170

SAC, Denver (105-/151)

Director, FBI (105-78256)

DECEAS RATH

RIOCILLATIOUS • INCOPMATIUN CONCIENING

Congresaran Donald G. Erotamn, Colorado, addressed

a lotter died 1/8/10 to the Attorney Goneral (10) requasilig

information from hi1 concerning the dinarpearance of subjoot.

Enclosed is one cony coch of the Conficioran's lettor and

Eureau lettes to the AG dated 1/14/70 jos your information..

without the

Also enclonod for your intoration is one copy each

stA monoranco gated 4/21/39 and 6/8/59; Dulotn to Ma

express

5/14/CO and to Boston 5/23/CD, loaton letter to the Director

anton 6/00/00; Jocton report dated 8/su/co, all nortaining

to subject.

the. above are being furniched

for the compiction

os your file.

approval

JEMORI

vour Countree und the contont may

nation ortsine

This document:

vcar Commistee.

is prepared in

On 1/12/70 [CA advised through llaison that the

I.'3

response

to not of coercional intoront to that Aneney, ath securd need

the subisety aloneanco, LChA adulaed li did receive a reporte

exporiencing norital diriiculties and had leit his vic.

listoel.

Agoney doen not have any iniornation concorning subject's

present whereabouto.

In subsequent communications concerning this ratter

request and

you should delete the character of 19 - CY and use the characte

of this letter.

Unless

additional pertinent information is doveloped,

offirial pron:

no investigation neod be contucted by your offico. If audi

not for

"tonal perciant inormation in roceived concernier this natton

disse

i should promptly bo -furnished to the Bureau by InH.

Enclosures

"It is

62

Tolson

[cLoach

Walters

Bishop

Caspor

Calichan

Conrad.

Felt.

6 ile.

callson

T 2084

1i,8a1s

JWR:set

MAILED 3

19 JAN 19 1970

JAN 1 6 1970

NOTE:

COUM-FBI

subject, a professor at the University of Colorado,

disappeared in March,

it first being reported to us

in April, 1959.

sultes disclosed that at une sine suilact

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE 1710

6,EJAN -1.19700 try

---

## Page 2

Letter to SAC, Denver

RE: - THOLAS RIHA

105v 78256

NOTE CONTININD:

vas of gome interest to CIA, On 4/15/20/ GTA advised through

carson, that subject had not leit the U.S. and had been baving

difriculty with his wife and "ran

away. Iron her." CIA advised

the story or runor indicating subject may have gone to Cz wes

without ioundatiou. In 12/69 Donver received a letter Prom

subicot's nother requesting information concerning subject's

disappearance,

Denver replied this was a matter

not within

the jurisdiction oi the Eureau; however, oifered if she so

desired to place his

nane on the Bureau's missing persons

Subject's nother seplied to our Denver Office on

1/13/70 declining to have subject's nave placed on the list.

On 32/29/69 "The Denver Fost," a daily newspaper in Denver,

Colorado, published a lengthy article concerning the disappear-

of subject. By letter dnted 1/8/70 Congressaan Brotzman,

R-Colorado, also requested information concerning subject'y

disapnearance fron the Af, Ve have condied no investigation

of subject's disappearance since there are no indications.or

a violation of Federal law in our jurisdiction.

---

