# 124-90110-10081

## Page 1

124-90110-10081|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10081

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-44214-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: NY

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/26/1967

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

NIKO IPERIFANOIS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IB

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32334088

Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

= Mr James

SECREU

SAC, New Tort: (10516748)

: REC- 47

Director, FBI (105011274)

26-6-95

NIKO IPERIFANOS,

akdo

IS - GREECE • CUBA

Crosse

aul koy

Declassmy Gas.

1/26/61

ant

JFK

Re report of SA Christopher J. Pappianou 12/30/60

captioned "Niko Iperifonos, aka., IS - Greece."

Since most recent allegations against subject concern

dealings with Cuba, you should add Cuba to the character of

suring your continued inguiries of subjects

you

snould consider adding other nations to the character if

information developed warrants

5-3048

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION SUCh aCtiOn.

1 = WFO

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 ScO/RST

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_/

mate

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

(5)

NOTE:

IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCOPI MACKETS

(SEK)

KD 5-26-98

Subject is of Greek descent and reportedly holds Cuban citizensh

In recent years he engaged in barter deals by trading Cuban

sugar and tobacco for munitions and other hardware.

In additions

he is alleged to have been in contact with a Hungarian intelligence

agent in 1944 and with an Albanian intelligence officer in 1955.

During 1949 : 55 he reportedly lized in Italy where he engaged in

narcoties and arms snuggling

aquiries of the subjects activities

in 1950 failed to indicate subject was engaged in subversive

activities or activities inimical to the interests of the

United States.

In addition, New York has had infrequent contact

with the subject during post two years concerning Cuban matters.

He furnished New Vork information in such matters and claimed he

was employed by a firm that furnished financial backing for the

projects of the former Cuban (Batista) Government.

ALL INFOREA&

FORCIN IS UA

WHERE SHOWN OTHER

Tổlson a

Mohr ..

Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

DeLoach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

DJAN 31 196,1.

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

MAIL ROOM

MAILED 27

JAN 2 5 1961

COMM-FBI,

_ copios mado

2-76-78 536/2

2а: догравто

FBIRd by

carif/rop0 requesto

(Sac Bur:1. 492-117290)

SECHET

TELETYPE UNIT

SJW

NH 50953 DocId: 32334088 Page 2

---

