# 124-10212-10160

## Page 1

124-10212-10160]

JFK Assassination System

Identification l'orm

Agency Informition

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10212-10160

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-120916-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

05/01/1963

4

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

• RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

MZF, ASSOC, B/F INT, ACA, INFT, INFO, NEG, GAMBLING

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

1B

Redact

03/24/1997

APPROVAL OF CIA

INC LHM

v9.1

NW 45782

DocId: 32293884

Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNITED"

STATES

ERNMENT

Meinoranaum

DIRECTOR, FBI

SECRET

HAS NO ABIE

CLASSIFPROM

MÉLEASE ONGI

HE THIS DOERP ON:

ME. 70

DATE:

MAY 1

196-

826-94

(105-7052) (C)

(105-7055)

(C)

Declassify on: OADR JFK

CONDOM CAJIGAL, aka

JFK

APPROPTIATESGENILE

ANDALEID

PrICES,

ADVISED SY

SLIP(S)

PATE

He sit

LUIS ALBERTO

Luis Condon

IS - CUBA

(Miami File 105-7052)

Glassined by 2t

SALT FA GOL

Declassify on: Q0DR0-14/88

ALVARO MARTIN FERNANDEZ FOX, aka

Alvaro Fernandez

IS - CUBA

died by 554

Exempt fran

Jans of Chee

(Miami File 105-7055)

228178

Enclosed for the Bureau are 1l copies of a letterhea

memorandum, captioned as above, suitable for dissemination.

Two copies are for the use of the legat, Mexico, in view of

the Information gatheredkconcerning activities of Cubans 'in

Mexico.

One letterhead memorandum has been written with

the

dual caption inasmuch as the information gathered concerning

one individual pertained to the other.

The letterhead memorandum is classified "Secret" as

hE contains CIA information so classified. e/u

On 3/11/63, JUSTIN E. GLEICHAUF, CIA representative

Miami, Florida, advised the the original source of the informatt

In 'this case and that furnished hu his office vas l

CES(5)

The TULIO PREITO mentioned in the enclosed letterhead

FILED

memörandun is identical with TULIO INOCENCIO PRIETO RUIZ, IS -

CUBA, Bureau Origin, Miami TIle 105-5193

of the Miami Office.

Bureau (RM) (Encls.

12(02a- Legat, Mexico)

- ENCLOSURD

PRISTO iS not a source/s

SEE REVERSE

2. 002am1

(RM)

ni sat fo

SCINGIFICATION

BET X 1 20916

o the

MECID

6 7 MAY 31

1963%

Copy to: CIA/State/t

ONI/QSI/ACSI

Do 921 to thes

SOT

SECRET

8 MAY-3-1963-

SLEEPONTON CONTA

ADELER OFFICE

ASVISED BY

SLIP(S) 0F

DATE

elsay DEURe S5114

OTHERNISE

ENREC COPY AR

NW 45782 DocId:32293884

Pagé

---

## Page 3

SECRET

MM

105-7052

105-7055

LUIS ALBERTO CONDOM CAJIGAL, who furnished Information

et torth in the letterhead memorandum, also advised that b

worked with CLA in Havana from the beginning of 1960 ₴

November, 1960,

CONDOM also advised that ALVARO FERNANDEZ FOX, Who

was also interviewed to this matter, is the nephew of MARTIN

FOX, former owner of the Tropicana Nightclub in Havana, Cuba.

CONDOM believes that since coming to Miami from Mexico City,

ALVARO FERNANDEZ has become involved in the bolita racket

inasmuch as his uncle is supposed to be a bolita racketeer

in Miami.

It is noted that when interviewed, ALVARO FERNANDEZ

stated that he is unemployed and lives from money furnished

him by his uncle, MARTIN FOX, and another uncle, PEDRO FOX,

also

residing in Miami at 302 Southwest Beacom Boulevard.

ALVARO FERNANDEZ,

in addition to the information set

forth in the enclosed letterhead memorandum, advised that while

he was in Mexico City he worked as an informant for STEVE MINAS,

U.S. Customs representative, U.s. Embassy, telephone 46-94-00,

Extension 373, or home phone 48-02-50.

He also advised that

he was to contact Customs Agent ED FICKIE In Miami at FR 7-3571,

which he did; however, FERNANDEL has not been used by FICKIE

In the Miami area. FERNANDEZ advised he helped on narcotics

matters.

- INFORMANTS

The representative of MM T-I, mentioned in the

letterhead memorandum, Is JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUF,

CIA, Miami,

Florida.

AM T-1 18 CIA, WashIngton, D.C. (7YpAy8( YAy&(u)

The following sources, all of whom have some knowledge

of Cuban activities in the Miami, Florida, area were contacted

with negative results:

USCS

-2 -

REVIEWED BE FUNK TAUR FORCE

ON 1:25 9bdal

I RELEASE IN FILA

L

RELEASE IN PART

D TOTAL DENIAL

•SECRET

NH 45782 DocId: 32293884 Pagé 3

---

