# 124-90137-10017

## Page 1

124-90137-10017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90137-10017

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-106077-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE :

DATE: 04/12/1962

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

ANTONIO RODRIGUEZ ECHAZABAL

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/09/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

NW 50953

DocId: 32337251 Page 1

---

## Page 2

REPRETT

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

the subject Indicated he resigned his position

as Cuban Ambassador to Pakistan on January Bye said he was

arrived in Guadeloupe on February 8, 1962.

in contact with a Department of State representative in

Karachi, Pakistan, prior to his departure from that country,

but had not discussed with the State Department the data

which he desired to discuss with your Agency. Your

representative in san Juan was advised of the subject's

request to be placed in immediate contact with your Agency.

The foregoing will confim information furnished

orally on April le 1962, to Mr.

by Special Agent J. F. Farr of this Bureau.

Jof your Agency (5)

Our files indicate that the subject was born

August 17, 1913, at Bejucal, Cuba, and served as Cuban

Ambassador to Haiti and Guatemala prior to his tour of

duty in Pakistan.

We have conducted no investigation

concerning an attempt to assassinate him in June, 1959,

while he was serving as Cuban Ambassador to Haiti. Informa®

cion concerning the assassination attempt has been furnished

your Agency by communications entitled "Dominican Intelligence

Agents in the United States."

We contemplate no further action in this matter.

If information of security interest to us is developed

receive the details thereof.

ON 12/29AN ma/dat'

DE RELEASE IN FULL

NOTE:

O RELEASE IN PART

State Department advisedlAn bellember, 1961, that

subject planned to detect from Cuban Government and go to

Dominican Republic.

The assassination attempt on subject

reportedly was instigated by persons acting on behalf of

I'rujiblo and, while we have no first-hand intormation

concerning the assassination attempt, it appears subject

possibly had been working with the Dominicans while serving as

Cuban diplomat, but had either double-crossed them or had

decided not to cooperate any longer with the Dominicans.

REMAINS UNCLASS pEr StAto

NOTE CONTINUED, PAGE 3

• 2 .

DipT. 157878-12-29-97

SECRETI

HW 50953 DocId: 32337251 Page 2

---

