124-10332-10018)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/8/2015

Agency Information

COMMENTS :

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10332-10018
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 105-88025-9
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 08/04/1961
PAGES: 10
SUBJECTS :
SANTIAGO ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ,
DOCUMENT TYPE:, PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/21/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE

vol

HW 50953 Docld:32313744

Page 1



ee
: 2

oo CONE! ENTIAL

! at this time insofar as Cuban revolutionary matters are

this case is being closed. Should subject\ subsequently
emerge as an active leader in anti-CASTRO activities, his

his activities, and the Bureau will be advised.
Lar

concerned, no further investigation is being conducted, and

case will be re-opened, and investigation conducted concerning

ust 1, 1961]
Miami, Flori ie
ring the-Cuban invasion

in April, 1961. ‘Bi, that. whi
interest in present time.

<>
In view of the aay oo of uns SERRE

Pratcatea that

unication. from

subject as a former Cuban senator who. had. collaborated on!

ut that there is no interest at the present time.
indicated he would advise the FBI at Cr Ll)
XCD =

matters relating to the publication from time.to ‘time. called

under. date of Pe
February 7, 1961, which, among other things,}identified Sagat u)

ef)

"Esbirros". {This information,

"GO Pee
Bees)

> 310,926

disclosed it was a two or three-page. mimeographed. "scandal

Pe Di
ie

2.9 fase BO. WP) Crnseried
He

that many individuals, anti-CASTRO and anti-communist, had

ee

ee

st

__ CONFIDENTIAL

HW 50953 Docld:32313744 Page 2

Communication was. classified "saat.
i

An investigation by the Miami Office of "Esbirros"

sheet" directed against the Frente Revolucionario. Democratico
(FRD),. as well as all other groups and individuals«both, pro
and anti-FIDEL CASTRO, according. to MM 492-S. It. was-noted ,

accused many other individuals. of printing "Esbirros",” which; i
had resulted in the paper not being.printed or published -in be

t 2a8§ January, 1961. This paper received very limited distribution,
| Se gs and it was not believed it had been printed in December, 1960. uly
-Be :
+ COVER PAGE



BW 50953

7 ama aaa fa = ol . : y

. ~~ 5

MM 105-2234

This Hebe iaGrhaeg ed confidential ah e
data reported from€MM T-1 726-5. id,
reasonably result in the identification of a Bathe we
informant of “thereot CGS and compromise the fu ee?

Ory

yoian

effectiveness thereof.
INFORMANTS

IDENTITY LOCATION OF ORIGINAL INFORMA TILON

“ MM T-1 is MM 726-S,
contacted by SA
LEMAN L. STAFFORD, JR. 134-307-fub A-98

Instant report, page 4) <=

/M T-2:is MM 492-s, Ly)
contacted by
SA JAMES D, HAYES Instant. report, page _s~

MM T-3 is MM 724-S, :
contacted by SA :
JAMES D. HAYES Instant. report, page _£

Careful consideration has been given to each
source concealed in this report, and "'T"' symbols have
been utilized only in those instances where identity must
be concealed.

z

~ Cee !

- COVER PAGE -

Doclda:32313744 Page 3
