# 124-10130-10377

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2018

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10130-10377

RECORD SERIES: PH

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-146-13

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO : HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 02/28/1964

PAGES: 79

SUBJECTS :

SEE FBI 105-632-98

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/07/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kenne(ly Assassination Records Collectign Act of 1992 (44 USC 2103 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-304?

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SEPPET

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN-

PATE

NVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

WASHINGTON FIELD

DALLAS

/28

764-

1. 2/24 - 27/64

TITLE OF CASE

REPORT MADE BY

JAMES F. MORRISSEY

GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT, aka;

CHARACTER OF CASE

JEANNE DE MOHRENSCHILDT, aka

IS - R

TYPED BY

nin/k

REFERENCES: Bureau teletypes 2/18/64 and 2/20/64; Dallas

teletype 2/20/64.

- P

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

Investigation regarding ICA on 2/25/64, National

Geographical on 2/25/64, and CSC on 2/26/64 was conducted by

SAIR. DUDLEY PAYNE.

The rovion of passport records was conducted by

SAS CARL E. GRAHAM and JAMES F. MORRISSIY on 2/25-27/64.

Information copies of report have been sent to

indicated offices as of possible assistance

investigation

those offices.

(5170H60/gol 11lg/93-T72)

ст..--

1/2193

913.CD

2842 pm. motim.

IK upecial

-22-34 =3

APPROVED

БРЕСІ/

AGENT

N CHARGI

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

10 - Bureau (100-32965)

105-632-98

1 - Boston (RM)

3

- Dallas (105-632) (RM)

- Denver (Info) (RM) (AM)

- Houston (Info) (RH) (AM)

-

Los Angoles (Info) (RM) (AM)

New York (Info) (RM)

Philadelphia (Info) (R™)

2 -

Washington Field (100-1689)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/GU

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X QX6

Docid: 321594255FKge 27/3/97

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 21U/ Note).

DATE: 11-11-2017

SECREX

WFO 100-1689

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

WE T-l is

WF T-2 is

WF 984-S*

278-5* (0(3)

LEADS

Leads to other offices in this case are being set

out by teletype per existing instructions..

Accordingly, only

those for FO are being set out below. However, since

WO not aware of scope of previous investigation conducted

re subjects by office of origin, the latter may desire to

set out additional leads after reviewing instant report.

WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE

AT WASHINGTON, D. C.

Will report the results of

CIA, INS and State Security checks regarding subjects when

received.

The attached report is classified "Confidential"

since it contains information which revealskour coverage of

a diplomatic establishment and our investigative interest

i feele nation i loure of which would be inimi

to the internal security of the United States

- B* -

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32159425

Page

3

---

## Page 4

Released wige fathe John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection get of 1992 (IT USC TUT note).

11-14-2017

Julian

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

WASHINGTON FIELD

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

CUN

GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT, ak2;

JEANNE DE MOHRENSCHILDT, aka

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/24 - 27/64

2/28/64

MADE BY

JAMES F.

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - RP

MORRISSEY

TUDIES

SLI:

INiS

REFERENCES:

Bureau teletypes 2/18/64 and 2/20/64; Dallas

teletype 2/20/64.

TYPED BY

nln/k1

"D

- P.

ADKINISTRATIVE DATA

Investigation regarding ICA on 2/25/64, National

Geographical on 2/25/64, and CSC on 2/26/64 was conducted by

SA K. DUDLEY PAYNE.

The review of passport records was conducted by

SAS CARL E. GRAHAM and JAMES F. WORRISSEY on 2/25-27/64.

Information copies of report have been sent to

indicated offices

as of possible assistance in investigation

thosg-if hfces:

2040

8-11-007125091

Date u

COn IALUrINITE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105-637-98

EiN

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

10 - Bureau (100-32965)

1 - Boston

(RM)

3 - Dallas (105-632) (RH)

1

- Denver (Info) (RM) (AM)

- Houston (Info) (RN) (A)

- Los Angeles (Info) (RM) (AM)

- New York (Info) (RH)

1

- Philadelphia (Info) (RH)

2 - Washington Field (100-1689)

Dis somingtton Record of Antached Report

Agency

Request Recd/

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

CLASSIFIED BY 5668. SLO/ECL

DECLASSISY ON: 25X .U)(6)

DocId: 32159425

PERT 23197

Macless

112111 03 Ran

SOMEIDENTIA

---

## Page 5

Beleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

. DATE:• 11-14-2017

SECREW

WFO 100-1689

CONFIBENTIAL

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

WF T-l is

WF T-2 15 WF 279-S

T 08-8 161(5)

LEADS

"Leads to other offices in this case are being set

out by teletype per existing instructions. Accordingly, only

those for FO are being set out below.

However, since

WFO not aware of scope of previous investigation conducted

re subjects by office of origin, the latter may desire to

set out additional leads after reviewing instant report.

WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE

AT WASHINGTON, D. C.

Will report the results of

CIA, INS and State Security checks regarding subjects when

received.

The attached report is classified "Confidential"

since it contains information which reveals our coverage of

a diplomatic establishment and our investigative interest

in a foreign nationk disclosure of which would be inimical (U)

to the internal security of the United States.

AL

- B*

COVER PAGE

(SECRET

DocId: 32159425

Page 5

---

