# 124-10274-10002_2

## Page 1

124-10274-10002

OPTIONAL FORM NO. IO

MAT IP6Z EDITION

OSA GIN. RIO NO. 2%

"UNITED STATES GO

ERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. C. D. Brennah

iron 2. Do cotterfly

DATE:

1/20/11!

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE EVALUATION COMMITTEE

(IEC)

INTERNAL SECURITY - MISCELLANEOUS

Reference memorandum 7/16/71 from G. C. Moore toz

you reporting on scheduled meeting of IEC 7/20/71.

Meeting of the Committee took place this morning,

Assistant Attorney General Mardian acted as Chairman, and

the following representatives were present: James Angleton

John Downie and Bill Vaught of Defense Department; Jim McGrath

of Internal Security Division; and John Doherty, Erecuti.a

Director of IEC.

I represented the Bureau.

Mr. Mardian stated that he had just returned from

seeing the President in San Clemente and that, as a result

of his visit with Mr. Nixon, he was charging the IFC with a

new project; namelye

• a comprehensive report on the United

States Government's treatment of classified and sensitive

information along with such corollary problems as how "Top

Secret" clearances are granted, whether we need to tighten

up our security procedures, and whether there is too much

classification of documents under our current system. Mardian

noted that this study was triggered by the Ellsberg case but

he was not asking the Committee to review the Ellsberg investi

gation. as such. He said that President Nixon was most concerned

regarding. the Pentagon. Papers incident and the serious situation

created by Supreme Court decisions relating to the Ellsberg

case. Mardian

said that the President wanted the Committee

to conduct an overall, comprehensive review of all the factors

relating to classification and protection of national defense-

information and to make appropriate recommendations, for the,

"President's consideration.

---

