# 124-10190-10078_12

## Page 1

124-10190-10078

11e9N

OPTIONAL IORA NO -10

#48 105261641088

Say 118 960.110,91

*UNITED STATES CON ER

• Memorandum

MENT

Nr. W. R. Wannall,'

• DATE: 2/26/74

We

0.

Cregar

• Ma"• Nicholas

1

• Nr. Cregar

TOMAS RIHA

INTERNAL SECURITY • CZECH

On 2/20/71

furnished the following information.

telephonically

has

& source

WHO

Recently

advised his

contact that he had learned from a SuB-soupcE

in turn

learned from a friend, not identified to

SOURCE

that the friend had seen subject in Bratislava,

crechoslovakia, in Late 19101M01

According to

SoURce had no additional

information regarding this

and had failed to obtain

the identity of the friend of his

Inasmuch as we do not have a current investigative

interest in Riha, no further action is warranted in this

case.

ACTION:

Assoe. Dor.

Dep. AD Ada.

Dep. AD list.

Admin.

Comp. Syas.

End. Altares

Files&Com

Gon lae.

Ident. ...

Instrelien

Insell.

Leborolory

Plar. & Eon!.

Spoc- Imr..

Irasnung..

Legel Coun.

Teleprona 8. .

Direcior 30e°s

For information and

record purposes.

WOC :ebc

(3) sir

REG-I9

41°

assertine

This docament is propored in resporse to long pecure or? is not for dissemi-

artier mising

any Corenitter.

Tie use is i%

nel willo the express approval of the FBI.

i,!

5 SMAR5

1974

---

## Page 2

I HOM :

3010-108

•AY I9G9 FDITION

GSA GIN, RIO, NO, 2Y

UNITED STATES (OV ERNMENT

Memorandum

MI. W. R. Wannally! !!"

W. O. Cregar

THOMAS RIHA

INTERNAL SECURITY - CZECH

DATE: 2/26/74

- MY •

• Nicholas

1

• Me. Cregar

Assoe. Die.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Ass1. Dre.s

Admine

Comp. $yss.

Exi, Allo-es

Filos & Com.

Gan. lav..

Ident, come o

Inspacilon. ..

Intoll. -.

Laboralory 0.

Plan. & Evel.

Spac. Inv. =

Treining

Talophono Rm.

Director See"y--

On 2/20/74

furnished the following intormation.

telephonically

a source at the University of Indiana by the name of

RecentlyL

Jadvised his

"contact that he had learned from a former student who

In turn learned from a friend, not identified to

that the friend had seen subject in Bratislava,

Czechoslovakia, in late 1973.

According to

the

had no additional

information regarding this matter and had failed to obtain

the identity of the friend of his former student..

Inasmuch as we do not have a current investigative

interest in Riha, no further action is warranted in this

case.

ACTION:

For information and record purposes.

VOC: ebc

(3) eit

REC-I9

-41°

3 FED 1071.

This doe ment is pronared in response to you, request and is not for dissemi

rama pes; in no m Committee.

Iis are de limited is official pioreclings by

don; Commites Out the content may not bu discloscd to unauthorized person

nel withoui the express approval of the FBI.

S 5MAR 5

19747

---

