124-10292-10145)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/6/2015

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10292-10145
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 2-2005-16
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATION
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: — 08/20/1973
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS :
FS, SCOTT, ED, MEETING, ACA, ASSOC, AKA, BKG
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 10/26/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: | APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS : INC ATTACHMENT

v9.1

HW 50953 DocId:32307442 Page 1


<= RUTHIS DOCUMENT. cxecp7 Beacllers

G

a

&

. “ RAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC’ \ :
. WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505 a

os HAS NO OBJECTION 10 wo SENS! 1

CLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
“RELEASE UF At INFORMATION

20 AUG 1975

TO : Director K 9-00-90 eae oe
j Federal Bureau of Investigation Some 2 \
Attention: Intelligence 2B o- “ y
Qe
of SE
FROM Dep. ty Directo for overgttfons .. é : a
I
SUBJECT: H o8
Qa
‘8
ca a)
aS Reference is made to our Teletype Cite CIA 429475, SX 3
dated S July 1973, and to our memorandum CIR-316/02041-73, \
dated-15 August 1973, Subject: ‘S J
2. The attached information was provided by uf {9 Z
from personal contact with Ed SCOTT in Miami, Florida

29 July, 30 July and 3 August 1973.

Se CIA is unable to identify Ed SCOTT based on the
available data. Should the FBI be able to provide further
identifying information we will be glad to recheck our records.

. In the interim it is suggested that you query the Department of
the Army concerning intormation dated/27 September 1960 o
Eduardo Teofilo SCOTT, ey or may*not be

Subject. ue

4
CIR-316/02055-7 — 60
102088-75 ae 4, A iFGile — AUG 23 1973
Attachment :, One, as above ce a pee
\3 Le copi
poi A pies made: 'ST-104

for review at FBINQ 4 ph
hel b -

Classified by signer. Exempt from fe Declassi fication
Schedule of E.O. 11652 Exemption Category 5B (2). Impossible
to determine date of chin) declassification.

/
i "a oe Nea ee

Ga ts ie pier ei)
Lisine rh . Sete : $56 fodye

HW 50953 DocId:32307442 Page 2

oe SECRET =, so

SeceSseeeeennnasoaa)


a a r - =

E

d SCOTT telephoned 1B address of M
\ in Miami, Florida,
ws staying. SCCTT sa

Sister-in-}aj a
and| ad mutual friends and
that he needed to s¢| ight aWay at the Cuban shopping

Ncenter on 22nd Avenue “and th Street which the Cubans named if
»"Centro Commercial Cubano." SCOTT gavel description of the

S vas wearing £ p ecognition. Since
clothes he was wearing for thespurpose of r gni
= Rit was mid-afternoon anf fnew most of the Cubans in that
S22 shopping area he went to™mest OTT who was waiting in front of S
Sey a small coffee shop located in the shopping center. Upoy S)
cb ‘rival SCOTT s £

ORJECHUN 10

habe g@gested 4, go into the YUMURA Furniture
g/Store where he introduce one of its owners, a Sergio
\GONZ a: who was in prison in Cuba with DAccording to “——
NZALES was supposed to have completed six years as a
: oO Tcal prisoner and_is ayssormer head of the 30th of, November
Momement., SCOTT told hee he has been involved in counter-
revolutionary activities for years, + is group was about. te
do something big ap Cuba, and askec £ he could get him
= some arms, [fois SCOTT that he was arrested for attempting
to leave Cuba illegally, was not and is not involved with any
\) group and did not care i ss the matter further. - SCOTT
& said that he could tell e location of Russian military
ca i ba, the location of all the prisons in Cuba, and asked
g NI vi dhougne the prisoners would escape if freed by a group,
Oat wh Y groups that infiltrated into Cuba would be helped
S y the people, and what the Cubans needed in the way of
food, etc., to change the situation in Cuba. SCOTT asked
aly about the c = nditions in Cuba, the length of his =
Z Pi - ould be willing to join SCOTT's group, if
Ww ee lafge amounts of drugs bein
ba to the U.S. by big ships painted with red lings me
by small boats with Cubans from the U.S. SCOTT also aske
if the American Government had talked to him—# his rettrn to
the U.S. and said that he would like to taka an office

2 ‘& where a girl would take down informati from y typewriter
and a tape recorder. SCOTT then too ut to his car, dark

CIA HAS NO

smuggled

green 1970 or 1971 Ford Galaxy, opened the trunk and showed| mt

a large number of rou sS, resembling stick
tin foil. SCOTT told ney were dynanite (8)
to note the licen 2 or the car. SCOTT 1
where he obtained Jelephone number, b
out that it was given to SUOTT by a Cuban name

who is employed at the coffee shop counter in the shopping center.
SCOTT tol Prat he was called te Washington recently in
connection Wit e-Waterg

: ‘ani attache case :
ntaining photogedtic cop. _photos of nk, } for 7
Yio, E. Howard MUNT,_and he Showed t RT

made a number of refe,
other persons, is
with SCOTT and T_ Ste

was what they ate in ¢
went on outside of pr

Bi - 2065-16
Eseresets ENCLOSURE.”

that the only thitg_he could/ tell h

HW 50953 DocId:32307442 Page 3

i a
a EL Att. t/ \IR-816/02085-73 |
On 29 Jui} fhecican who identifi i £


la” ade GW Be

| : fe On 30 July_1973 Mr. SALDIVAR (fnu)father of Eugenio
SALDIVAR,, visite ister-in-law's apartment.
Mr. SALDIVAR andj an went to have coffee at the afore-

mentioned shopping/centter and saw SCOTTthere.with.some of his
"cronies" and anjJArmando, mot further identified, who was -exiledite

in the Uruguayay Embassy_jn Hayana in 1962. The group started 2B:
normal conversation wich nd after they had drunk their i elcet
coffee, SCOTT, in an eff be funny, eccording t| ookyc.
ee?

"an old Cuban $100 bil} his pocket to pay for ae
The group insisted tha ave lunch with them but B)
declined with the excusé tha e had a doctor's, appoin' 7

On the morning of 3 August 1973 Peain visited
the Cuban shopping center to purchase some—rrems~and again

encountered SCOTT. An unidentified Cuban hopping center
/ that day called SCOTT "CASID", —S hat he was

very busy these days and show near the
shopping center which SCOTT;== fixing up in. preparation
for a trip secon, and invite oO come see him the following :
day where SCOTT was working boat. The boat SCOTT was \
working on is_located in back o£ the Cuban shopping center on

22nd Avenue said it Mptedly.is worth about $75,000...
and is owned by wa (ehB i je

cknamed aye, whose,
ate

In a note to this Agency dated\6 August ws] iis
said that "they", sources not named, told\ hin that SCO is
AN also known by the name of KAISER, and that this SCOTT, or
NY KAISER, has spread the story’around the. Cuban colony that he
hpi a member of CIA; that he fought in the Indo-China War;
that he was a member of the French Foreign Legion; and that he
was wounded many times in World War II. SCOTT said that he and
Armando were going toy Washington again to be questioned in
connection with Watergate matter. SCOTT is a personal
|x friend of _Armando¥FERNANDEZ, about 45 years old, who reportedly

(—Toz¢_is in jail in cubiat the present time and claims to be or to :
have been ass¢ SB HEE A pa8s Reportedly FERNANDEZ, together
—— with Carlos De ¥ARMASS=sb6u7250 years old, and a person calied

se
El Pirate", about 35 years old, were arrested in Cuba. on or

4about 20 July 1973 for having gone to Cuba to bring cut the

fami rmando FERNANDEZ and some other people. According

to e families who were to have left Cuba illegally on

the return trip with these three were als rrested in :

Varadero where the families lived. hia that the person

called "El Pirate" allegedly had been in jail in Cuba previously

but got out and came to Miami and that these three persons used

to hangout in the YUMURA Furniture Stofe.in the Shopping Center

on 22nd Avenue. . :

HW 50953 DocId:32307442 Page 4


tt. to CIR-316/02055-73

Ss) .
froviif Dave the following description of SCOTT:

Age : About 35 or 36 years old.
Height : Approximately 5'7" tall,
a little on the stocky side.
Weight : About 145 pounds
Hair - Blonde
Eyes : Blue
Scars H Long scar on right arm;
small finger on right hand
bent.
Appearance: Not a bad looking person.

Spoke Spanish very badly.

M

\
}

4

HW 50953 DocId:32307442 Page 5
