# 144-10001-10147_docid_6606178_binary_sealed

## Page 1

Dọc ID: 6606178

Date: 08/12/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER

: 144-10001-10147

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

: YEATES, EUGENE

TO : MILLER, JUDY

TITLE :

DATE : 11/28/78

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS :

INVESTIGATION, HSCA

DOCUMENT TYPE : NOTE, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: U

RESTRICTIONS

: OPEN IN FULL

CURRENT STATUS

: 0

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/12/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

DOCUMENT IS FROM A FOIA LITIGATION FILE AND IS REDACTED AS RELEASED TO THE

REQUESTER. A CLEAN COPY HAS NOT BEEN LOCATED.

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6606178

Legislative ffairs

28 November 1978

TO: Judy Miller

1. Enclosed is a request made directly to us by

Mr. Blakey and a reply which we propose be provided

to

Mr. Blakey by Mr. Kester.

2. If you have any questions concerning this

please give me a call.

Slit Say

EUGENE F. YEATES

Encl :

a/s

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6606178

DRAFT

SECRET

Mr. G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. House of Representatives

3331 House Office Building, Annex 2

Washington, DC 20515

Dear Mr. Blakey:

This responds to your letter of November 13, 1978, directed to a

component of the Department of Defense.

With respect to the subject of the FBI file to which the requested

information relates, the information held by the Department of Defense

indicates that the individual who has been identified by the FBI as the

object of your inquiry applied for, and was granted permission to enter

Cuba in late March 1962, entry to be made within

30 days.

Sincerely,

JOHN G. KESTER

Special Assistant to

The Secretary

SECRET

---

