# 144-10001-10252_docid_6606971_binary_sealed

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6606971

DATE: 03/01/97

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER :

144-10001-10252

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

LAO

TO

: DIR

TITLE

HOUSE ASSASSINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

PAGES : 11/24/78

INQUIRY OF SUSPEC RODRIGUEZ VS. LOPEZ POLICHAEPO

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUN

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS :

1A

CURRENT STATUS

..

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/15/96

PENING CRITERI

RIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRE

COMMENTS :

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 11-01-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 2

* Legislativ

Affairs

24 November 1978

TO : DIR

SUBJECT: House Assassinations Committee Report

1. Enclosed is a new request from Mr. Blakey.

2. We have learned from the FBI that the subject

of the inquiry is Mr. Gilberto Lopez Rodriguez a.k.a.

Gilberto Lopez Polichaepo.

3. There is some information on this individual

contained in the enclosed COMINT report of May'1962.

4. Dan Silver and I have prepared a proposed

response - also enclosed - which pretty much protects

the COMINT source while providing info to the Committee.

5. Request your approval.

por BUGENE r. YEATES

Encl:

a/s

Cc :

D/DIR

ADPL

GC

EGRE

Released on 11-01-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 3

*Doc ID: 6606971

Legislativ

Affairs

24 November 1978

TO: Judy Miller

1. Enclosed is a request made directly to us by.

Mr. Blakey and a reply which we propose be provided to

Mr. Blakey by Mr. Kester.

2.

If you have any questions concerning this

please give me a call.

EUGENE F. YRATES

Encl:

a/s

---

## Page 4

"Doc ID: 6606971

DRAFT

DECREE

Mr. G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. House of Representatives

3331 House Office Building, Annex 2

Washington, DC

20515

Dear Mr. Blakey:

This responds to your letter of November 13, 1978, directed to a

component of the Department of Defense.

With respect to the subject of the FBI file to which the requested

information relates,

the information held by the Department of Defense

indicates that the individual who has been identified by the FBI as the

object of your inquiry applied for, and was granted permission to enter

Cuba in late March 1962, entry to be made within

30 days.

Sincerely,

JOHN G. KESTER

Special Assistant to

The Secretary

SORET

---

## Page 5

D.C.

YVONNE DRATHHIE BURKE, CALIF.

CHRISTOPHETJ. DODO. CONN.

HAROLO É. FORD, TENN.

FLOYO J, FITHIAN, IND:

ROBERT 14. EDGAR, PA.

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

SAMUEL L. DEY

STEWART A. M

HEY. CONN.

CHARLES THONE, NEER.

HAROLD 5. SAWYER, MICH.

(202) 223-4624

Delect Committee on Assassinations

C.S. House of Shepresentatives

3369 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

November 13, 1978

Juli

pind

yor!

Legislative Affairs Office

National Security Agency

Section D-1, Room 9A119

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755

Gentlemen:

In connection with its investigation into the

circumstances surrounding the death of President John

F. Kennedy, the

Select Committee on Assassinations re-

quests access to NSA Document 3/0/CUD/R 12-62 dated

May 15, 1962, consisting of two pages.

That document

is referenced in FBI Bufile #64-330-210-1262 and was

deleted from the FBI file pursuant to the Third Agency

Agreement.

Your cooperation and prompt attention to this

request is appreciated.

Sincerely,

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: sbg

is Nor

---

