# 144-10001-10189_docid_6606911_binary_sealed

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6606911

DATE: 09/12/97

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10189

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

YEATES

TO : NSA/DDO

TITLE

RE REQUEST FROM HSCA ON COBO CLEANERS AND EARL RUBY

JATE : 07/17/71

AGES • .

SUBJECTS

INTERNAL MEMO RE BLÄKEY REQUEST FOR INFO ON COBO CLEANERS

CLASSMENCATION MEMORANDUM

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY DETERMINATION IS REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 11-01-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 2

SEGRET Leg rive Affairs

Judy

14 July 1978

NOTE 1

R JUDY MILLER

Staff Assistant, Office of the secretary

SUBJECT: Request from Mr. G. Robert Blakey

1. Wanted to provide you with an

advance copy of the attached correspondence

which I believe you will find self-explanatory.

2. For your information, though it is

considered unlikely that we would have any

material related to Mr. Blakey's request, we

are instigating a search of our records and

should be in a position to know where we

stand within a week or so.

Sseue Yeates

EUGENE F.

YEATES

Chief

Legislative Affairs

NSA

-SECRET

- HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

Released on 11-01-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 3

TO

•SOMAL FORM NO. 10

MILY POTS MOITION

Doc ID: 66069T1* (41 e7R)

101-11.6

UNITED STATES GO

RNMEN

Memorandum

: DDO

DATZ: 14 JulY 1978

Ron Sobel, LAO, 37475

FROX : LAO

SUBJECT: Request for Information

1.

The attached letter from i. Blakey requests

information in connection with the House Select Committee on

Assassinations investigation into the circumstances surrounding

the death of President Kennedy.

2: Request a search of your files be conducted to

determine if we have any information pertaining to Mr. Blakey's

stated interests, i.e.,

• any and all telegrams, or other

communications, sent from Cobo Cleaners in Detroit, Michigan,

by Earl Ruby,

or any other individuals, to Cuba in March ana

April of 1962."

3. I would appreciate receiving as soon as feasible the

results of this search,

to include a negative response if

appropriate, together with an indication of which files/recoas

were searched and the approximate level of manpovez/machine

effort required to satisfy this requirement.

E.E. Leatur

EUGENE ?. YEATES

Incl:

a/s

Copy Furnished:

G

V

Exec, DDO

GC

T12

SORRELE

MANDLE JIA COMINT DIANNES DALT

Bay U.S. Savings Emus Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

-48-0

17-19

---

## Page 4

if dobhtil filled)

ROUTING SLIP

JUSPENSE DATE

HOUR

FROM

TO

DI/ LAO

MI. G. Robert Blakey

BUSJECT OR BRIEF OF CORRESPONDENCE (include lletiriß of Incla)

Ltr answering request of info on investigation being

conducted by the Select Committee (no Incls)

DATE OF CORRESP.

14 July 78

FILE OR SERIAL NO.

N0853-78

REG. NUMBER

NO. COPIES

DATE RECEIVED

ROUTE

INCOMING

INITIAL

OUTGOING

DATE

FOR

ROUTE

See

M/

R

INITIAL

DATE

DIR

D/DIR

EX REG

GC

See

M/R

ADPL (D1) 1-5

3

2

L221

4

L2142

I. ACTION REQUIRED (complete items 1 thru 3)

1. PREPARED BY

EXT.

Eugene F. Yeates

2. TYPE

_JINITIAL LETTER

JINTERIM REPLY

3. то

37475

X FINAL REPLY

JOTHER (apacity in "'REMARKS"

bolow)

Mr. G. Robert Blakey

REMARKS (Il' additional apaco lo nocessary use revoros)

Original and CF's hand carried by

Mr. Yeates on 14 July.

IT. I] MO ACTION REQUIRED (if no action, sign below and

five org. and ext.)

SIGNATURE (organization and axt.)

CHANGE ACTION (trom)

(50)

IN

SERIAL

N0853-78

ROUTING LEGEND

FOR

ACTION

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

INFORMATION

EDITING

SIGNATURE

DISPATCH

FILE

RETAIN

ROUTING SLIP NUMBER

, OUT

1

2-3

5

4

ROUTER (initial)

VERIFIED (Initial)

DATE

FORM A 1407 REV MAY 68 (Supersedes A1407 FEB 64 which la obsolote)

---

