# 157-10004-10190

## Page 1

157-10004-10190

Date: 08/06/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10190

RECORDS SERIES :

CABLE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CITE MEXI 7210 ?

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO : MEXICO CITY

TITLE :

GILBERTO ALVARADO

DATE : 11/28/63

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

ALVARADO, GILBERTO

MEXICO CITY

WITNESS TO PAYOFF TO OSWALD IN CUBAN CONSULATE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/09/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955

DocId: 32202079

Page 1

---

## Page 2

rosy 1e0!

#1)

DRIG.:

XT.:

JISTR.:

IDEN 28

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

25 NOV 1965

Commo: Chrono;

P-8593; Cilberto

ALVARADO P-

DESERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

JOKE IMMEDIATE

SECRE!

FILE:

INITIALS

DIG.

NUMBER

INITIALS

TO

DER

INFO.

MANA" (ROUTINE)

CITE

MEXI

2.10

NUMBER

REF: DIR 85653

AT GP

1. REQUEST

AUTHORIZATION TURN ALVARADO OVER TO TAMIMPO

WITH BRION

EXPLANATION HE CLAIMS TO BE WINNESS TO PAYOFF TO OSWALD IN CUBAN CONSULATE 18

SEPTEMBER, ADMITS IS IN MEXICO ILTAGALLY, ALLIS CP MEMBERSHIP, AIMITS VISITS

TO SOVEVE, CLAIMS THAT CUBAN CONSULATE NOW INVOLVED IN DOCUMENTING HIM WITH

FALSE MEXICAN PAPERS FOR TRAVEL, TO CUBA. LATTER POINT ALONE WOULD GIVE MEXICAN

AUTHORITIES GOOD REASON TO SUBJECT HIM TO DETAILED INTERROGATION.

2. WITH HQS APPROVAL OF TURN-OVER STATION WOULD PLAN NO FURTHER CONTACT

PITE ALVARADO. •

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

+212398

APPROVED FOR RELAS?

11994

CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROOM.

AS SANTIZED

21 Jul

114

RE

TOM

JAN 23 1976

CIA

IDaNZE

AUTHENTICATING OFF.CER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECHET

CLASSIFICATION

IDEN

RELEASING OFFICER

NW 50955

DooId: 32202079

Page 2

---

