# 157-10004-10050

## Page 1

157-10004-10050

Date: 05/11/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10050

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FB1

FROM : HOOVER, J. EDGAR

TO : DIRECTOR, CIA

TITLE :

ROLANDO L. CUBELA Y SECADES

DATE : 06/27/62

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :

CUBELA Y SECADES, ROLANDO L.

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

PARIS TRIP

AMLASH

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/12/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

335-2

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

DocId: 32201939

Page 1

---

## Page 2

0SIMX3800

NATIONAL

SECURITY

INFORMATION

• Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal

Sanctions

NEC- 6

(NI) 105-77567

Date:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

SECRET

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

REVIEWED BY FBLJFK TASK FORCE

AS SANITIZED 6441327/1/94

ON 4/194 das

1

- Liaison

Mr. Mullins

Li

RELEASE.IN FULL

1 RELEASE IN PART

BY LIAISON

U

TOTAL DENIAL

к(н)

• June 27,

1962

To :

Director

• Central Intelligence Agency

OFFICER

Attention: Deputy Directors. flons

Eron:

Subjuct:

John Edgar disover, Direstor

ROLANDO LO CUEDLA Y SECADES

INTERNAL SECURITY • CULA

715/94

Classued by 2803 RAFel

Dealassify on 040S. (Jfk)

Referènce Is nade to your letter dated April 12,

1961, concerning the subject, your reference CucI-3/764,709.

Enclosed is a copy of a memorandum dated June 13,

1962, at lilomi, Florida, which contains Information conceznina

the

possible defection of Cubela from the Guban Governsent.

as a long-time contact of a icpresentative of your Agency.

SOURCE a m3 advised our illani Office that Cubela plans to zu to

5,20

296L6 2N0F

sauce and a and nea plans to to to tron on Sure 22.

Sui, and stated that, if ho could be of any service to the

nited Stotes Governnent or assiat Cubela, he would arrence to

e in oris uhanever recessary. He said he could be contacteà

•n curbedthronete

IDENTIFIES SOURCE

vane

noted that he had been in close contact

Bel:0n8 -

Moh: -

Callahan --

onrud -

• Last.

NOns

Malmne.

Sullivan

Tavel .=

Trutens

TH 5519905

Holes ..

. th

insted, states

who fornerly was assigned to

the

189

in Movane,

Cuba

and, aitcr

GUET

2 - Paris (Enclosures 2) (Sec Note, Page 3).

"SEE NOTE, PACES

through for reviow)

AW 50955

DocId: 32201939

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

SOURCE

(5)

(5)19

10 OFfe

1B

Director

Contral Intelligence Agency

was transferred to

Lexic

CIA OFFICER

was in contact withe

at the Enbassy in Havana.

.? also mentioned that he was

in lexico when Cubela tallica

as there. In speaking of

his desire to cooperate, "

souRcE y emphasized that he does not

want &

a to think he is doin?

something behind a

back: Dur lioni Office adviced SouRcEs that the data turntole

by him vould've made available to the paoper United States

agency aid that his comtents concerrins

wauld be Iclayed

to that agency.

14.00G

CEr

SOURCE

noted that he was returning to dew Yor

City fron iioni and said that, in the event he reccived cny

additional infornation concerning Cubela, he would forward it

to the Fil.

He furnishod our liani Office a businnss card

in 5 to a gut.

ENTIFIES

DURCE

SOURCE

basked whom he should contact if he reccived

emergersy Irioration while in Paris, and our liani office.

which had had no previous contact withi

a informed hinsance

that he should go to the United States imbassy there ard speai

to someone an the legal Attache's Office.

SOURCE

Since it appears that

tomatis of operational

interest to your lgency, ve are taling no stops to direct his

activitics. If he does volunteer information concernira Cubcla

in the future, you will be pronatly advised. We are lastricte

our representative in laris that,

in the event.

as contacts

his office, he should

→ to your reprosonative? Sum

• 2 ..

REC-

MAY

SECRET

1.

NW 50955 DocId: 32201939 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Director

Centil Intelligence Agency

18 per.

SOURCE

CDA

If you have not alroar done so, you my desiic

o establish contret with CruSt and furrich him specific

Instructions as to how this hatter should be handled.

Enclosure

1B per

ATTENTION:

LEGAL ATTACIES, PARIS AND LONDON, AND SAC, MILIT

Single copies of Mant airtel and memorandum 6/18/62

are enclosed for Legal Attaches, London and Paris.

Legal ittache,

Paris, should refer:

13 to

the appropriata Contral

Intstligence brency official at the

Embassy if

does

contact your oftice.

SOURCE

S

NOTE:

Classified "Secret"

seprasentatives abroad are set

mince the dom iting

of

out beroin, and,

for that suason:

1B pescA

SOURCE

(s) Staresos

1own to dismi Agents foruerly assigned to lavana as ClA wiployeed

no guidance will be given in

SOURC

Cubela has been President of the Cuban University

Student Federation (FEU) for many years and was also a leader of

the Revolutionary Directorate, a group which fought with Castro

to overthrow •Datista.

For several months we have been recciving

reports that Cubela is fed up with Castro and wants to defcot.

Since the data developed by Miami inúicates

ala is arcanging) the

defection, we are withholding dissemination

this tine.

KLUL

= 3 -

1B per thay

25 197€

SECRET -

iLi

HW 50955 DocId:32201939 Page 4

---

