# 157-10005-10360

## Page 1

157-10005-10360

Date: 10/07/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10005-10360

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: FBI

TO : SSCIA

TITLE :

MEMORANDUM/MATERIAL/CHRONS

DATE : 00/00/76

PAGES : 132

SUBJECTS :

MATERIAL/MEMO PROVIDED TO SSCIA FROM FBI AS REQUESTED - 1963

SUBJECTS INCLUDE CUBA AND OSWALD

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: U

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

BOX 377

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 50955

DocId: 32202550

Page 1

---

## Page 2

: *1

SSCI BOX #

377%

RE: MURITARY AND SAVAG MAXTERS

2.4

of the curas Coonaris: Farty, edincesarizai on the stripping

of rank end pestrice of 191c2

- wire.

AMBLu2ERAS Mag a wing time frieno of Faaah CiGoRO and the

Cular revication

and 423

the farad dries of the Cuban

Nationa: Revt

Lacerary Earlds.

Fares removed in about

196: 1nd given varicus

assagamenos, taciuding a trip 5o

Europe wrich na3

interded to bring about his better

same.

Fas

aaroname ta Charadh 15

Ta Verbita" ("The

Ilttle ner"s with 1s a ridicare stening from his

rotoriety as a rais

Iml 2-i caiied aubertion

to tre deet has dear read viola have been know

to the piline zone before Choreols savent to power, but

1t 15 caly now unat his vices, corruptrera, and mieconduct

form sufficient reason for nio renoval cron aii positions

of authority.

The editorial in "Traria" stated that chts action

was due to his irespondlade conduct and the greet hern

he nes doing to nds om prestig art that of the revolution

by marianing friendry restore with

Panti-social elements,

vagabonds,

and

carrupt individueas"

it ves then noted that

AME-JEIRAS haz 255

close talendship and association with

former Major FOraDE CuBES,

mentloned above as under

trial for piotting to kill ronas didiRo and cverthrow the

government.

The sidicie suared

the conduct of

2MEI0725A5 WEB Incompatinla vish

sna rank of Meror in she

Rebed army, Vee Mrister ef she damed Forsee."

aid above

all, with thor of beirg a menber or the conseel vommittee

of the comundat carty

so which ne was crested

recognition of his

outgtanding nar record, his

terrib's

suffering in which he 103t

those brothers in the

struggle,

and with the hope that he would mare a raximum effort to

overcome his detecte

MM I-2, a source with many yeros exuerience as both a police

and nho maintains contact with

CIA HAS NO OBJEGTION TO

RECE: FROM

DECLASSIRIGATION AJD/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

MẢY :: 1976

DOJ

13119198

HI# 50955

DooId:32202550 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ret

SSCI BOX #

3773

RE: MEREAFT MO 12X28 M922273

some scarces 1a Cube, 100200e chl death

1955, that

FIDEL. 063273 10 ECCот026.6n:

when te trai

ty h13

physician, Major E92/.:

minist married

13 a Hingerian recuses.

= member ef

the Central

suze so the cisea

-st Fanty, and

jessie finger, also a nether an the cuben commundat

2.Y

Mn T-2 stated that aone co the sign officials

of the Rebel Aroy who Dearer.

"y toot turns In accompanying

FIDEL CAS0R0

se his trips tharashort the country and

in the capitol atsei?

dest underorarly upon the preference

which the toad of the

Cuber novorrmons noy appects to place

in these three persons, especially FART ara

they consider to be riding on the restors "band wagon"

without being true coonundate tnaster aa their peritical

Ideals are concerned.

ande reasonay nee not reached such

dissident factor and la definicely making some readiay.

MM T-2 hinted trat darine tood to 629 Cire wher

FIDEE CASTRO WE3

the goverament

of FUSCENCES BATISEA,

resided sogeches 1a Miari.

Chey were antirate friends

and both are rideny reported by carene.

Lariadiaz Cuban

physiotera, to be efescinate end aprico fervenes.

FAURS

CHONON waS an carly Arcatered o?

+. era Coviet Lalon.

He was then a

Mariater of communicsidena, and now a intraser

of Frarsporbation end also a manues un the fortra? Committee

of the Cuban

emintat Fantu. En: 1-a abated that it could

well be

that

ROLANDO CUESIAS

onder to 2

PRoMoN goon a positior of title and

authority

1B

CM

4.

Sl6

(

18?

H# 50955

Doold: 32202550

Page

---

