157-10014-10219)

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

T/V/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: — 157-10014-10219
RECORD SERIES: | MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: — 07-M-124
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FRO} WALLACH, PAUL
TO: SCHWARZ, FRITZ
TITLE:
DATE: — 07/22/1975
PAGES: = 13
SUBJECTS :
OPERATION MONGOOSE
MCMANUS, GEORGE
DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY
CLASSIFICATIO} Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: — 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA =

COMMENTS :

05/31/2000

CC Box 254

val

HW 50955 Docld:32423607 Page 1


Date : 08/08/95
Page : 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
\
sscta ‘
157-10014-10219
MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS. OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

. ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM : WALLACH, PAUL
TO : SCHWARZ, FRITZ
TITLE :
DATE : 07/22/75
PAGES : 13
SUBJECTS : MCMANUS, GEORGE

OPERATION MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE SUMMARY
CLASSIFICATION UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

POSTPONED IN FULL
01/20/99

cc Box 254

oo (R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId:32423607 Page 2


TM-aS.A009 SonKeOon


HW 50955

MEMORANDUM

TO : Fritz Schwarz
FROM: Paul Wallach
DATE: July 22, 1975
RE : Staff Interview of George McManus (Monday, July 21, 1975)

As we discussed last week, I asked George McManus to come
down for an interview Monday evening. The interview lasted approxi-
mately three hours; the substance of that interview -- as reconstructed
from both Joe DiGenova's and my own notes — is reflected in the at-
tached memorandum.

McManus should make a brief appearance before the Committee.
He worked closely with both Helms and Harvey, and his testimony will
allow a different perspective on the Mongoose operations and the as-
sassination issues.

McManus will also testify as to his perceptions of Robert
Kennedy, and Messrs. Helms, Lansdale, McCone, and Harvey. More spe-
cifically, McManus may show us that Helms was not as "on top" of the
Cuban operations as he would have had us believe on June 13 -- a posi-
tion from which he attempted to back away during his most recent Com-
mittee appearance.

ec: William Miller
Curtis Smothers

DocId:32423607 Page 4



Historical Data:
—tstorical Data.

McManus retired in May 1970 after some 20 plus years

of covert/clandestine agency service. In the early 1950s

he headed up the CIA's

He was subsequently appointed Station

Chief and later Director of the Cover Staff,

In mid-December 1961, Helms asked McManus to apply his

expertise to the Agency's Cuban Defector Inter-

rogation Center. McManus headed for Florida on Christmas
Day and spent the following week at the Opa Locha Center.

He reported directly to Helms on his findings, conclu-
sions, and suggestions in a memorandum dated January 3,
1962.* McManus recalls that the "center" was then inopera-
tive; he called for an immediate operational restructuring.
McManus stressed the importance of the positive intelligence
that the Center could, and indeed eventually did provide

at the time of the Missle Crisis.

It was not until early January 1962 that Helms formally
brought McManus "on board" as his assistant for "Cuban
activities. The initial weeks were dedicated to ensuring
that the revitalized Center got off the ground; subsequent

*This afternoon I requested a copy of McManus! January 3

memorandum.

HW 50955 DociId:32423607 Page 5

i


HW 50955 Docld:32423607 Page 6

M0


McManus on the meeting in RFK!

t Richarg Helms'

Surprisingiy enough, the January 19 meeting Was McManus"
first Cuban OPerations "briefing, McManus Tecalled that
RFK "firmly Stressed the need to do Something about Cuba,

He analogizeg the Attorney General's Temarks to those of a

footbal) Coach's during halftime, (albiet, a Don Schula

7
e
55 Docid:32423607 Pag
HW 509.

Q


words, (With the exception of discussion relating to Opa
Locha Center--seg typed memo, at Paragraph 3).

McManus assumed that RFK was Speaking for the President,
McManus "never got anything of¢ the ground as fast as he
did the Cuban Refugee Center", However, at no time did
McManus discuss the meeting or RFK's Statements with either

McCone or Helms, At the meeting McManus thought in terms

he was not aware of continuing Cuban Pressures emmanated
from the Attorney General, According to McManus , Helms met
regularly with the PResident and "much less often with the

Attorney General," McManus neither was Present nor discussed

e 8
50955 Docld:32423607 Pag
AW


NW 50955

McManus on being Helms! assistant for Cuban Operations:

As Helms! assistant for Cuban activities, McManus was in

daily contact with both Helms and Harvey, Moreover, he

as Director of the Cuban Task Force. McManus understood
that part of his job was to keep track of Harvey who was
"quite an independent fellow", and not "extremely forthcom-
ing with information", McManus explained that Helms shared
his feeling that "we had to get off our asses and get mov-
ing on Cuba", However, Helms as ppp had "lots of other impor-
tant concerns,"

McManus Prepared a weekly report for Helms wherein
he summarized intelligence information and the Operational
work of Task Force w, Apparently, the operational section
was prepared by Harvey and simply Teviewed by McManus Prior
to transmittal to Helms, Helms in turn reviewed the draft
Teport. The final version was eventually disseminated
to seven recipients, sincluding'inter alia, McCone, Lansdale,
Defense, and the White House."

Although McManus was Helms! “Cuban eyes and ears" he
disclaims any knowledge of discussions, Plans or attempts
relating to the eee of

Fidel Castro, Although we did not show McManus Specific

Docld:32423607 Page 9


NW 50955

documentation of assassination attempts (for the reasons
discussed last week), we informed McManus generally as to
the nature of the Plans and attempts, their time sequence,
and the cast of characters. McManus admitted that he was
surprised that these were just now being called to his at-
tention. He told us that assassination was "a completely
different ball game". Indeed he stated that assassination
was in his opinion senseless; "viz., our leaders would have

been sitting ducks".

DocId:32423607 Page 10

oN


McManus on General Lansdale:

McManus described Lansdale as "Kook", "wild-man", and as
“just plain crazy". He told us that Lansdale was similarly
viewed by most others at the Agency. Unfortunately, Lansdale
was "sponsored by the Kennedys" and "as good soldiers the CIA
had to cooperate."

McManus vividly recounted Lansdale forays into the sabotage
arena. He presented his initial laundry list of Cuban action pro-
posals early in 1962, of course, he expected immediate CIA
action on his requests. In McManus! words, the CIA was "re-
quired to assist Lansdale in these "unrealistic", "half-baked,"
and "half-ass" schemes. McManus added that with every new
dawn a Lansdale courrier bearing yet another "half-baked
scheme" would arrive at Task Force W's door.

McManus succinctly painted a picture of the Agency's --
and more specifically, McCone's, Helms', Harvey's and McManus!
-- resentment of Lansdale. Lansdale -- with the CIA "as his
troops and horses" -- was ready to do battle, albeit indi-
rectly, with the Castro regime.

McManus stressed that "Lansdale's projects simply gave
the impression of movement. Although the frenzy of activity
gave a whirlwind impression, it was without substance. McManus
noted some higher ups regarded Lansdale as a mystic, viz, "they
must have believed that despite Lansdale's insane ideas, he had
some sort of power to accomplish results or they wouldn't
have kept him."

Neither Helms nor McManus had daily contact with Lansdale.

HW 50955 Docld:32423607 Page 11


As mentioned above,

directly with
Harvey.

McManus added

t, and not

12
HW 50955 Docld:32423607 Page


have heard so much about, He felt that the "33 tasks" were

SO broad that virtually any and alj Sabotage/propaganda

and Lansdale's focal role, However, he Claims to have had

virtually nO contact with the non-CIa members (Querre: how

e 13
50955 Docld:32423607 Pag
aw


about the Past year's Cuban operations, McManus replied that —
he would Tather put it in writing, The November 5, 1962
memorandum is his "thinkpiece." Helms never discussed the
memorandum with McManus, However, McManus deduces ~~ from

the handwritten notation in the margin which reflects that the

to the memorandum, He had said earlier in the interview, however,

that the Attorney General "viewed the Project in a Political

light -- 1.€., as the means to limit Castro's advances in

Latin America, Moreover, McManus did not sufficiently answer

Pressed views,
T would think that we will want to review this memorandum

with McManus tomorrow,

14
HW 50955 DocId:32423607 Page


NW 50955

McManus on not being informed of assassination attempts
while Admiral Rayburn's. executive assistant:

As noted previously, McManus disclaims any knowledge
whatever of assassination plans or attempts. He rejects
the notion of "plausible deniability" at the operational
level; i.e., where the operatives would not inform the
SCI or DDP. In adamantly rejecting the existence of any
such unwritten law in the intelligence community, he
stressed that DCI must be fully informed as to all ongoing
Agency operations. Indeed, McManus told us that McCone,
Rayburn, and Helms were all “inquisitive” men.

McManus believes that McCone would have been "morally
outraged" if informed of assassination attempts. However,
the "accuracy" of McManus! statement may be questioned as
he also stated that "Helms would have been opposed to assa-
ssinations." When I explained that Helms was aware of such

attempts, he could not provide a satisfactory response.

DocId: 32423607 Page 15
