# 157-10005-10359

## Page 1

157-10005-10359

JFK Assassination: System

Identification l'orm

Agency Informition

Date:

2/23/201

AGENCY :

SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER :

157-10005-10359

RECORD SERIES: LETTER & MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: R3037

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DOD

FROM: LATIMER, THOMAS K.

TO: MILLER, WILLIAM G.

TITLE: DOD OPERATIONAL PERSONNEL

DATE:

PAGES.:

SUBJECTS:

05/17/1976

7.

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

INFO PROVIDED BY DOD TO COMMITTEE AS REQUESTED

RELEASE OF INFORMATION TO

SENSELCOM--INFORMATION NEMORANDUM

REQUESTING SERVICE INFO ON CERTAIN PERSONS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

Redact

03/14/1994

BOX 377

v9.1

NH 47129

DocId: 32202549

Page

1

---

## Page 2

CENFIDENTIAL

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFLAGES A

WASHINGTON. D. C. 20301

250347

INTELLIGENCE

17 MAY 1976

10359

41512)-

Mr. William G. Miller

Staff Director

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence

Room G308, Dirksen Senate Office Building

Washington, D. C. 10510

Dear Bill:

The attached Army memorandum replies to Mr. Johnston's request of

30 April 1976 and responds with further information on identity of Army

operational personnel to Mr. Quanbeck's request of 8 April 1976.

I would appreciate your retaining the security classification of

the attachment.

Sincerely,

Thomas

Latimer

Principal Deputy

Attachment

CIA HAS NO ORIGOTION TO

DECLAGSIPICSTION ANG/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

<314198

w2°0.

23?1470: 80

20

....:".

Downgraded to UNCLASSIFIED

when separated from attachment

CONFIBENTIAL

VI-c-36300-07

NW 47129

DocId: 32202549

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF FOR INTELLIGENCE

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20910

.....

1: S2.08 106100-

20 MULLET ZICE 11 MAY 1976

23057

377.=

DAMI - DO

?..

Auditiid

MEMORANDUM FOR: PRINCIPAL DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

(INTELLIGENCE)

ATTENTION: LTC DONALD G. BENNETT

SUBJECT: Release of Information to SENSELCOM-- INFORMATION MEMORANDUM

NH

47129 DocId: 32202549 Page 3

1. (U) Reference is made to Principal Deputy Latimer's two memoranda

of 30 April. and 3 May 1976 to the Secretary of the Army concerning

subject.

2. (C) This memorandum responds to requirements contained in referenced

memoranda as follows:

a. (U) Identification and location of Army intelligence officers:

(1) M11 Ford P. Hubbard, LEG iBet?: SSN: (312-28-09683) Last known

LiRl, Liberty, Indiana

(2) Grover C. King, LIC (Reti, SSN: 426-24-8395;)last known address:

5107 Romany Drive, Jackson, Mississippi 39211,

(3) William C. Arms, presumably discharged from Army Reserve in

rank of Major (Reserve control file incomplete); last known address:

113 Granville Drive, Silver Sprint, Maryland.

(4) Junius A. Watlington, LI: (Ret); SSN: 530-20-46023)current

address:

L95-381 Waia Loop, Mililini Town, Hawaii 96789; address after

mid-June 1976:

ACO - Far East; Fort Meade, Marylind

Operations Direct urat 2079 ty Intelligence Agency,

(5) Russel K, Leick, LIC (Ret:); SSN: 501-14-54204 last known

address: 305 College Place, Frederick, Maryland 21701.

b. (U)

Based on information provided, no information in Army files

was located identifiable with:

(1) Luis Bretos

(2) Jesus Suarves

(3) Alberto Jordat

CONFIDENTIAL

Classified by Dir of Intel Ops

SUBJECT TO GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE CE EXECUTIVE ORDER 11652

AUTOMATICALLY DOWNGRADED AT TWO

YEAR INTERVALS

DECLASSIFIED ON 31 DECEMBER 1982

No DoD objection to public disclosure

pursant to P.L. 102-526, except for b3

24P940309

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL

SSCI BOX #

377-

DAMI - DO

SUBJECT: Release of Information to SENSELCOM-- INFORMATION MEMORANDUM •

(4) R. B. Welch

(5) Manuel Rodriguez Orcarberro

(6) Jorge Salazar

c. (C) Information was located in Army files probably identifiable

with the below mentioned persons as follows:

(1)

Willlam Burn - Ortega, aka William Burn, William Ortega, 417-12

Octobre Street, Hato Rey, San Juar, Puerto Rico! Data on Ortega is con-

tained in United States Army Field Appraisal Detachment reports dated

28 May 1964, 8 June 1964 and 11 August 1964, subject Project Many (C) •

These reports were furnished to yeur office on 5 May 1976. No additional

information on Ortega could be located in Army files.

(2) Osvaldo Pino-Pina, Dallas, Texas: Army files contain a controlled

Source dossier on one Osvaldo Pinc y Pino, born 22 April 1932 in Camoguey

Province, Cuba, which contains substantially only this data:

(a) Date of Information (DOI) 5 April 1963: Present residence -

Unknown, Dallas, Texas; Occupatior. last known: service station attendant

in Houston, Texas; "Address of Employer: Tele: JA8-9621" (sic), Parole

number: 4 12 912 449; Pino y Ping]was relocated from Miami to Houston,

Texas on 26 July 1962. His wife and son are still in Mayari, Oriente

Province, Cuba.

(b) DOI 11 April 1963: Pino y Pino is being considered for use in

"PT EC" (sic) (Probably Project EFIDEMIC (C)).

(c) DOI 24 April 1963: Pino y Pino "'reinstated." (Probably means

he was reinstated as a Source).

(d) DOI 25 April 1963: Pino y Pino is a former AUTOBOAT (C) Source,

who was terminated without prejudice in mid-1962.

(e) DOI 24 June 1964: [Pino y Pino dropped as a EPIDEMIC (C) Source

without prejudice because he was no longer of sufficient operational

potential.

d. (C) Following Informatior replies to specific SENSELCOM questions

concerning ILT Raymond F. Friesecke.

He is further identified as Raymond

Francis Friesecke, born 12 March 1937 in Brooklyn, New York; SSN: 017-28-

4010e Army file holdings on him indicate: Friesecke entered the US Army

on 22 July 1961 as a Second Lieutenant and was discharged on 20 January

1963. He served his entire tour at Fort Benning, Georgia and he had no

CONFIDENTIAL

NN 47129 DocId: 32202549 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

SSCI BOX # 377=

SUBJECT: Release of Information to SENSELCOM--INFORMATION MEMORANDUM

assignments which would have authorized him access to information about

any US operations directed against Cuba. In January 1964, two personal

letters from Friesecke to the Assistant Chief of Staff, G4, 2d Infantry

Division, Fort Benning, Georgia, were forwarded to the Assistant Chief

of Staff for Intelligence, Department of the Army, for information. The

contents of the letters showed Friesecke may have been associating with

militant anti-Castro, Cuban elements in the United States and may have had

unauthorized access to classified US Government information.

The Army

conducted no investigation into the circumstances of these letters and

referred; them to the FBI and CIA as a matter of possible counterintelligence

or security interest to these agencies. FBI disposition of this matter

is unknown. CIA advised they were not interested in the matter. Frieseckels.

file is available at OACSI, DAMI-DO, for review.

3. (U) Should the SENSELCOM decide to interview any of the persons

identified in paragraph za, above, the Army requests to be allowed to have

an observer present during the interviews.

Also, the Army would want to

review any part of testimony taken during the interviews if it is to be

released beyond the SENSELCOM or to the public.

EOR THE ASSISTANT, CHIEF OF STAFF FOR INTELLIGENCE

CF :

OGC, DA

DACS -DC

There I kely

MERRILL T. KELLY

Acting Director

of Intelligence Operations

CONFIDENTIAL

Mr. Strecker/51765

Typed by J. Lukasik

4

NW 47129

Docid: 32202549

Page 5

---

## Page 6

ARA 711

R 3027

371= =

SSSI COX #

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

WASHINGTON. D. C. 20301

14 May 1976

INTELLIGENCE

Mr. William G. Miller

Staff Director

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence

Dirksen Senate Office Building.

Washington, D. C. 10510

Dear Bill:

The attached Army memorandum replies to Mr. Johnston's request of

10 May 1976.

I would appreciate your retaining the security classification of

the attachment.

Sincerely,

Vor.

Thomas K. Latimer

Principal Deputy

Attachment

RECEIVED FROM

MAY 14

19/0

DOD

REPER OE DERISE O LOND 20

AAN CHATTTER TO SOUDE COPERa:

accelerag

..a.-a......e

VI-C. 3(201))

3

NN 47129 DocId: 32202549 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF FOR INTELLIGENCE

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20310

SSCI BOX #

R 3027

377.-

1 4 MAY 1976

DAMI - DO

MEMORANDUM FOR: PRINCIPAL DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

(INTELLIGENCE)

ATTENTION: LIC DONALD G. BENNETT

SUBJECT: Release of Information to SENSELCOM (U) --INFORMATION MEMORANDUM

1. (U) Reference is made to Principal Deputy Latimer's memorandum of

11 May 1976 to the Secretary of the Army concerning subject.

(U) This memorandum responds to requirements in referenced memorandum

and the attachment thereto, a letter from the SENSELCOM, dated 10 May 1976,

requesting access to the Army's dossier on one Owen Darnell, born in 1908

in Colorado.

a .

(C) Army intelligence has file holdings, a source control dossier,

on one Owen Johnson Darnelle born 27 June 1921,

at Cripple Creek, Colorado,

who is probably identifiable with the Owen Darnell about whom SENSELCOM

seeking information.

(C) In summary, these Arny intelligence file holdings are as

follows: As of April 1962, Darnell was in contact with Army intelligence

as a "possible informant" (sic) regarding shipping data on Cuba. At that

time, he was Chief of Operations for the Lykes Line Agency. a shipping

company. At that time, Darnell apparently resided at Cervantes No. 11,

Apt 1, Condado, Santurce, Puerto Rico.

As of June 1962, Darnell was termed

a "confidential informant" of Arm/ intelligence and was being traced at

the Inter-agency Source Registry is a possible "source or spotter" (type

of source used to identify persons of possible operational interests to

Army intelligence).

Information on Darnell's formal recruitment is lack-

1ng•

File holdings indicate that Darnell kemained in contact with Army

intelligence until at least 18 November 1964, which is the date of the

last recorded contact with him by Army intelligence. On 15 September

1966, Darnell was terminated as a source without prejudice because he

had lost access.

RECEIVED EROM ON: TO

PROTEROX 03 CEZAR31

AND OF DEFE

HE CANTO GET CONFE FELOr COVIRE

TO INTIIEIGONCI

10017ZES

DOD

Glassified by Dir of Intel Ops

SUBJECT TO * "THAL DECLASSIFICSTON

SCHEDT:

CUTIVE ORDER 9!f'

AUTOMA

DOWNGRADED AT 752

YEAR INT

DEOLASSIFILD ON 31 DECEMBER 1982

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 47129 DocId: 32202549 Page 7

2

pursant to P.L. 102-526, exceptior b 3

outt

94030.9

---

## Page 8

CONFIDENTIAL

1 4 MAY 1970

DAMI - DO

SUBJECT: Release of Information to SENSELCOM (U) --INFORMATION MEMORANDUM

3.

(U) The above

cited file holdings on Darnell are available at OASI,

DAMI-DO, for review.

FOR THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF FOR INTELLIGENCE:

MERRILL T. KELLY

Acting Director of Intelligenc

Operations

CF :

OGC,

DA

DACS - DC

RI:CEIVED FROM

DOO

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 47129

DocId: 32202549

Page 8

---

