157-10014-10485)

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

7/7/2015

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE

DATE
PAGES

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE =
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

SSCIA
157-10014-10185

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

07-M-90

Document Information
SSCIA

THE CONGO

08/22/1975
5

CIA
MOBUTU
LUMUMBA, PATRICE, ASSASSINATION

SUMMARY
Unclassified
1B; 1C
Redact
05/31/2000

v9.1
HW 50955 DocId:32423573

Page 1


Date
Page

08/07/95

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY INFORMATION

SSCIA

157-10014-10185

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
07-M-90 :

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE
DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

SSCIA

THE CONGO

08/22/75

5

LUMUMBA, PATRICE, ASSASSINATION

CIA

MOBUTU

SUMMARY
UNCLASSIFIED
REFERRED
POSTPONED IN FULL
01/19/99

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId:32423573 Page 2


72 Op Aitken file
ia § § 2 ee oe . UCacacke ne...

‘

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

INTERVIEW WITH: Victor Hedgeman"'

REGARDING! : The Congo’

DATE-TIME-LOCATION: August 22, 1975, S201, avm./p.m.

PRESENT: Pees

HAS OR SHOULD BE DIGESTED:

FOLLOW UP REQUIRED: SEE PAGE S’--' POSSIBLE INTERVIEWEES

MATERIALS SUBMITTED BY INTERVIEWEE(S):

EXECUTIVE SESSION: YES ~_NO

\

BW 50955 DocId:32423573 Page 3


Interview and Meeting Summary - "Victor Hedgeman"
w/Bill Bader, August 22, 1975, S201

After an extended tour with the United States Army and
some education at San Diego State, Hedgeman went to Harvard
where he studied in the Department of International Relations
working to a degree in political science. He didn't finish
his degree but went after being recruited at Harvard into
the OPC. He then became an NOC in Europe and for a number
of years worked in Belgium, Luxembourg and France. His pri-
mary responsibility in Belgium was that of surveillance of

Soviet operators in Europe. While in he cam

to meet

In January of 1960 he became the first Chief

of Station in the Congo; prior to that time the Agency had
had merely a liaison service. In late July of 1960 Hedgeman
returned to the United States with Ambassador Timberlake to
press for a U.S. policy of political action in the Congo.
Hedgeman's position was that the Soviets were moving large

amounts of equipment and manpower into the Congo and that

something had to be done to head it off. At the time he

first went to the Congo he was the only man in the Station.

A year later there were and eventually the Sta-

tion would reach upwards of |Hedgeman mentioned that
'
the relationships and staff that he built in the Congo per-

sisted, and that when the operation started the

group would move almost intact to Hedgeman believed

that the Congo was vitally important to American interests,

HW 50955 DocId:32423573 Page 4

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page ___ of


INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page _“: of

despite some criticism of that point from the State Depart-
ment. He felt that the economic wealth of the Congo was
important to the United States' future, and ;that it was
equally important that the Congo remain a viable unit. He
said that there was very strong resistance at the State
level for political action involvement in the Congo. For-
tunately the Congo operation became one of Allen Dulles!
projects. At the beginning, with the approval of the
Special Group, it was agreed that the CIA would begin to
provide financial support for moderate Congolese politicians
By August of 1960, however, Hedgeman and Timberlake were push
ing for instructions that would allow them to pursue a course
that would lead to a change in government. Hedgeman said tha
those close to Lumumba at that time were Soviet agents. The
way that it was initially pursued was to the building of
personnel assets investing in labor unions to help them
with their propaganda, a lobbying campaign, direct payments
to politicians. 7
The first major effort to rid the Congo of Lumumba came
with a plan developed by Hedgeman to bribe enough members of
the Senate in order to induce them to vote Lumumba out..This
plan was to have taken place on the 7th of September, 1960.
Hedgeman had arranged that the radio would be denied Lumumba
after his defeat so that he would not be able to go on the
radio to try to change the decision of the Senate. Unfortuneately

and for reasons Hedgeman does not know to this day, Mobutu

jumped the gun and threw Lumumba out. Lumumba in turn went

HW 50955 DocId:32423573 Page 5


INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page °° of

to the Assembly and harangued them and got the vote and also got
the vote in the Senate by bringing troops out and surrounding
the Senate building. Hedgeman said that up to this point he

had been thinking largely in parliamentary terms; that the

way to rid the country of Lumumba was through the paramilitary
method. After this experience of the Sth through the 7th, he
decided more drastic and direct methods had to be employed.
Hedgeman contends that the coup of Mobutu seized control was
arranged and supported, and indeed, managed, by the Central
Intelligence Agency. During the course of the interview
Hedgeman spoke glowingly of Mobutu, who he feels is a man wity
good political judgment, a sense of history, and the capacity
to be a Pan African leader. Mobutu was only twenty-nine at
the time. Hedgeman says his most difficult time with Mobutu
came in February of 1961 when the Kennedy administration decided
that a federalized government, including all political factions
was the only hope of averting civil war.. Hedgeman was |

with going to Mobutu and°telling him that the United States

had decided to withdraw all support from him and that he
would have to resign. He said Mobutu was utterly shocked
by this and could not possibly believe the United States
could believe that the Congo was ready for parliamentary
government. He said Mobutu was so upset that he drew his gun
and waved it in the direction of Hedgeman and said "If this
happens, I will die," and, looking at Hedgeman, "so will others."
Hedgeman said Mobutu only put his gun away when Hedgeman
told him that he did not personally agree with the decision,

that he was just carrying out orders like a good soldier.

HW 50955 DocId:32423573 Page 6


ee INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page 4: of

Hedgeman stressed that in.this period, 1960-1961, the
Congo was fraught with utter confusion; he sais that what PILE:
they were running was a Scotch tape and baling-wire opera-
tion. As for paramilitary operations, Hedgeman said they be-
gan seriously in the end of 1962 with the arrival of a number
of T-6's that he and Ed Gullion had asked for. He said that these
aircraft were not intended to be used in combat, but only to
reassure the Congolese that the United States was with them a
provide them with a bit of black magic. Hedgeman professed that
the paramilitary combat missions of 1963, in support of anti-
rebel activities, were really quite minor affairs.

Some specifics. Hedgeman contended that he had no knowledge
of the approval of funding of South. African mercenaries and
tribal leaders capable of resistance as approved by the 303
Committee. He also said, though, that he had important contadt
with Mike Hoare mercenaries, they gave no direct or indirect
support to them. He also said there was ne, repeat no, com-
plicity or support on the part of the CIAin the ouster of q
Kasavubu by Mobutu in November of 1965.

Throughout the conversation, Hedgeman interspersed the
most hair-raising tales of his and his daughter's brushes wit
death in their dealings with unruly mutinous Congolese, ranging
from being placed before two different firing squads during
one day and his evening as the selected victim of a hit con-

tract given by the Union Miniere.
As for CIA employees who might testify well, should the

Committee handle the Congo issue in executive session, Hedgendn

recommended Edward Korn-Patterson, Bronson Tweedy, and Glen

Fields, 73

NW 50955 DocId:32423573 Page 7
