# 157-10008-10149

## Page 1

157-10008-10149

K Assassination Syste

tentification or

Agency Inform dion

Date:

2/23/201

AGENCY: SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER: 157-10008-10149

RECORD SERIES: MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Info mation

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA

FROM: JOHNSON, LOCH

TO: SENIOR STAFF

TITLE: DOCUMENTS FROM LBJ RELATED TO COVERT ACTIONS AGAINST CUBA

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/21/1975

2

CASTRO

LBJ LIBRARY DOCUMENTS RE ATED TO COVERT ACTIONS

AGAINST CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

0S/11/1994

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Box 393-1

19.1

NW 47129

DooId:32203657

Page 1

20

---

## Page 2

SSCI COX #

TOP SECRET - J. STIVE

39j-1-

10149

2i. July 1975

MIMORANDUM FOR SENIOR STAFF

SUBJECT: Inspection ol Clussifiod Documento et Lad bibrary Related to

Coverü Actiono Aguinst Cuba

FBOM: Loch Joinson

Among the many docurents which I exumined at tie Jolinson Library in

Texas this past week is one that I find particularly alarming.

lo draw it is your attenüion.

The document, in mestion is from the des to the Secretary of

Defense, dated 30 Debauer 1964.

The subjent is a proposed covert

¿cion aguinal Cuba, with the code naue Sui l DANCE.

07 21. March 1904; Che JOS asponded to Presidential rerucar for

new ideas

relative to Chor by advising the Hiite House that ony new

promising courses of action to uniermine thi Casuro regime isuld be

brought to the Presiden's attention.

Appar inuly their cirst bright

ne. idea ioo SCUARE DANCE, sutlined in Lne 31 October docuner: (attached).

ine nrou250l enviodoned une destruction a lic Cuban coonomy my intro

muzeg aerially from ofi shore & Jugur cone lant porasite cutted

The program would begin wich a 30 no conu reduction ii ontici-

pated

Cuban sugar production (see page 6) an: vichin three-to-six

inre the ruination of the sugor industry

economic and poriticol disturbances coused i this alüack could be

exacerbated. und expisited," continues the JC: mens, "by such measures

95 sprewding hoar-end month disease anone deft animales controlling

rainfall by rioud scooing, mining caneficlds burning canc, in direci-

ing sher acts or conventional sauotage egoist the cane milling and

trunsportation systems" (6, caphosis addau).

"would furnish another aption to the United tates in bringing about

the collapse of

the Castro regime" (1).

In AppenuiX A ol the sevaRe DaNce propo al, ibe memo notes inut

the approvat for implementa

"would introduce a new

dimension into cold war met

* ond would re vire a major chango in

national policy.". Indeed

youd-or al iciat, one hopes ve hove nou

used such methods belare!

aproposal is n thing loss Lan a voriant

of gone warfare which sonin

Taro dod cented careered to tries!

civilion rommation.

jun.

At this point de do nou kno what hanged to the SQUARE DANCE

concept. Il moy never have been implemented au all, even partially.

The covering mema written by lownan, an Nsü stuffer, la Bundy sugresis

that the White House was skeptica! towurd in idca.)

To me, though,

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

NO NSC

No DoD objection to public disclosure

pursuant to P.L. 102-526.excoptfer

3/31/94

12/2/13

16 JAN 94

NH 47129 DooId: 32203657

Page 2

---

## Page 3

- 2 =

the mere writing of this kind of proposal i a reprehensible firal slep

toward the worst kind of foreign policy mis hief.

I find it even morc

repugnoni thon contingeng plans for assuss nation.

These are not the

kinds ol recommendations

which should file up to the White House from

the intelligence conmunity. The agencies most have a better sense of

what is accepuable policy,

legally and mora iy.

As in the Huston Plan,

the White House wes confronted here with a

aries of illegal and 11-

ethical options.

the result of SQUARE DANC.: would have been parasitic

death for the mior plant end animal life i:. Cubs.

The fecble efforts

al the CIA to direct ascossination aulempus

ogainst. Castro pale by

imparison vala this day proposal lor core. i acidon)

I. bolieve SQUARE DANCE deserves air at ention. If assassination

is unacceptable, surely tos is the widespreid destruction of Blont

and animal life through coveri germ warfare Somehow (probably through

henrings and restrictive legislation) the Congress must drive home the

point that there are legal and moral. limlüs

üo American foreign policy.

These limits may not be eosy lo iefine, bui ve must try.

On the third poge of the second atlachment (a "Memorandun for

Discussion

of Coveri Program Against Cuba" (ritten by Bundy) reference

is made to "possible addilion of contaminating elemenis la sensitive

Cuban imports (not foad)."

The cover mens iron Gordon Chase (NSC

staffer indicales

that this proposal receired Presidential backing.

NH 47129 DocId:32203657 Page 3

---

