# 157-10002-10238

## Page 1

157-10002-10238

Date: 10/05/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10002-10238

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

: FBI

= ROM :

TITLE :

PLANS TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN LEADERS

DATE : 06/04/65

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :

CUBA

ASSASSINATION

HERNANDEZ, VICTOR

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : S

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

box 333

Folder 2

[R] - ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

NH 50955

DocId: 32282078

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1:

SECALI

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

r. Belmont

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

dir.

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

7341119/43

ON

115/94 dos

•Mr. Deloach

RELEASE IN FULL

sis

Mr. Sullivan

AS SANITIZED

Ke "12011

1 = Hir. Wannall

1 RELEASE IN PART

NATIONAL STOCA RIENALINFORMATION

Jiuro 4, 1905

Unauthorized Disclosure

12-18-43 Subject to Criminal Sanctions

1 - Mr. Cotter

Basted by 1803 RDD KSR

1 - Mr.

Nasca

1 - Mr. O'Brien

ARi ES: BAN(JFK) PLANS IO ASSASSIXITE CURAN ELADIAS

1125/29

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 510/ndc

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

On June 2, 1005, Victor Domindador Espinosa

Hernandez, a Cuban refuret, was interviewed it tho New

City Offico of the Federal

Durcau of Investigation.

York

Espinosa alvised as follows:

On May 29, 1905, le returied to New Yor! City after

spending trenty-sis days in l'aris, Franco, where ho las in

contact with individuals involved in a plot to assassinate

Pidol Castro and other Cuban Governent Icaders®

The main

figure in this plot is lolando Cuvola, a close friend of

Espirosa and an intinate friend and current ncigior of

Ficiel Castro.

Cubols is identical vith torner rajor rolando

Li Cubela y Secaces, tho has resi ned trom the arred forces

of Cuba and is now practicing uedicine in lavala.

berto

-Diyancor

an contoycorof tha Cuban Forenonenimistr] and/Ela

ida sanque are the other leading figures in thi.

$)

plot.

!le conferred in Paris for about ten day's with

hocta med who was thenon an moncetion tour of cuban

7) 4)

tabasches ara"congulates absopas/ He learned that the plotl

da discoted toidre tha

assassination of flict castro, lis

brother Raul Castro, Ernesto "Che" Guevara, a Cavinet, nerbor

In tho present Cuban Government, and Raniro Valdes, the Chict

of the Cuban Intelligenco Servico.

Tho assassination of these

individuals is to tale placo in public, possibly on July 20,

1965, wen all the Cuban leaders would bo togother at the

annual July 25th colcuration in liavana. Aiter the assassination,

those involved in the plot lopo to seizo thio radio station

and call l'or Ancrican nelpo

Cubola and others associated

with hin in this plot desire to know whother or not the

United states would help if the plot was sucrissiul and 18

105-131628=

1 - 2-1821 (Espinosa)

SECRET

SEE NOTELLHGE THO

1- 105-77667 (Cubela)

1 - 205-82793 (Ameida) Excludad STos autonatte / 0454-1756 627-

downgrading and

declassilication

ENCLOSORE

•! 1965

NH 50955 DocId: 32282078 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

PLANS TO ASSASSIMITE CUSAN LEADERS

the United States rould be ready to give this assistance at

a moment's

notico as

the plotters may be able to hold the

Governaent for only a day or two.

He was in Spain for about tienty hours during his

recent trip and in that country he gontacted other Cuban

criles and learncu that a man named

abo is in

Chargo of the Central Intollirence Mercy Office in Madridi

is aware of this plot to a certain degiec...

The Cuban exileR

S\ P

do not trus

DanteE and allege he has

been coupromised

by a Cuban carl nicknaned Tosa, y Who vas sent Fron

1 lavana

to sean Cos the Brecitio purposs of be

getting in contact with

He requested to be put in contact with a representative

of the Concral Intelligence igency, who vas thoroughly fauiliar

with the Cuban situation and knowledgeable concerning the

individuals involved in the plot.

NOTE:

Above information contained in New York teletype

dated 6/2/65, captioned, "Victor Domindador Espinosa Hernandez,

Neutrality Matters; Internal Security = Cubà."

Bureau files indicate Espinosa in 1963 was involved

in a plan to bomb Cuba. Our investigation of this plot, which

was not a Central Intelligence Agency operation, resulted in

seizure of over a ton of dynamite and other material to be

used in making bombs.

Bureau files indicate Cubela has been previously

contacted in Europe by Central Intelligence Agency possibly

with a view towards taking sone action against Cuban leaders.

AMneida Mosqualmay bo identical with person serving (SU) _(uN

a8

First Deputy Minister of the Cuban Revolutionary Armed, Forces,

Original of this menorandum boing sent to Attorney

General (copy to Deputy Attorney General) by cover letter.

Xerox copy being furnished to lihite liouse and DiRECEIVED FROM

SECRET

MAY aN 1919

NOTE CONTINUED DIF FIREE

NN 50955 DocId: 32282078 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

PLANS TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN LEADERS

CONTINUANCE OF NOTE:

Intelligence Agency also by cover lctter. In view of the

sensitive nature of this infornation, it is felt dissemination

should be restricted to these addressees.

Classified "Secret"

as memorandur indicates

Central Intelligence igency operational abroad.

Infornation in nemorandum orally furnished to

a giER E Central Intelligence Arency 6/3/65g Central

by Liaison

Agent Papich.

later advisea Cir 2rriCEi

Intelligence Agency, would 'contact our New York Office

6/4/65, in order to be placed in touch with Espinosa. Central

Intelligence Agency plans tclephonically furnished to supervisor

Gallant, New York Office, 0/3/05, by SA F. X. O'Brien.

SECRET

RECEIVED FROM

MAY 40 1976

DOI

- 3

50955

DooId: 32282078

Page

4

---

