157-10011-10013

Date:03/19/94
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

] : IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10013

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
TO:

TITLE :
INDEX CARDS

DATE : 06/00/75
PAGES : 397

SUBJECTS :
OPERATION MONGOOSE (R]
CASTRO [Rr]

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : 1
Box 141, Book 1 of 3, Index Cards dated June/July 1975

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED me

HW 50955 . Docld:32203781 Page 1


@ abeg Teieozze:plo0g SG60c AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR

ELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
is SANITIZED

Bt 3/24] a4

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
26 Oct 1962 Mongoose
Special Group (Augmented)
Cuba
- Parrot “A |
OCCURRENCE:

Parrot states that the CIA has 1] ."assests" aboard Cuban owned ships. Action orders (i.e. sink-
ing in Cuban or bloc ports or high seas - sabotaging cargos - making crews inoperative) have
gone toluene for action. Other action pending.

SeRET

SOURCE: ; STAPF:
Memorandum «prepared by Parrot titled "Operation Mongoose - Main Points PGW
6/29

to Consider," dated Oct 26, 1962. Dare:


“¢ afea Teaxeozze:ploog cc6os BN

_CIAHAS NO OBJECTION TO
“ DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR -
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

br 2(29[ 44

‘plic giscosut?

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

DATES: CATEGORIES:

Dee 1454

Fletcher Prouty Castro

OCCURRENCE:

Sometime between December 1959 and February 1960 Fletcher Prouty, the Air Force Liaison
officer to the CIA was approached by the Air Division of the Covert Action staff of the
CIA who said they had a special job requiring Air Force support and they wanted an L-28
airplane. The CIA people said they had a place. to land_. in, Cuba, ind they wanted to let .
2 men out there and then fly the plane back<toy ira The men to be landed--—~-~~~~> ~~
in Cuba would be equipped with a high- powered Title and a telescopic site. The object

of the mission was to go to a building in Havana and to shoot Castro. The men were Cubans.

x

ia

SOURCE: 4
Staff interview of Ro caeeelter Coit

FILE:

STAFF:
Kelley
DATE? June 30, 1975



FB eHed TaLeozze:plo0ed sceog AN

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES:
§ IROUP-AUEMENTED;, MONGOOSE, | June 20, 1962

ICK, MCCONE, RFK, LEMNITZER, dune-125-1962

CIA HAS.NO OBJECTION 10
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

6 He Ie
CyA

CATEGORIES:

! Special Group Augmented

ansdale\, TAYLOR, JOHNSON, GIL- Tuty-345-19 62 i...

iS HE ARUSK, KOHLER, (HURWITCH) "| May-375-1962-_ Une 22, 1962

Due to reports of popular unrest, political strife, and economic disruptions
inside Cuba, it was suggested that the Special Group Augmented consider the value of

having an SNIE on Cuba made_in the immediate future,

The CIA has agreed as a matter of

priority to reach a stage@intheinterrogation ‘of Pedro-Rorg§where he can be surfaced

to make public charges of Cuban Communist operations
For operational effectiveness, the CIA has selected

against Latin American nations.
a new area in Cuba for its initial

radio broadcasts from a submarine for "Voice of Cuba.' The Navy states that the new
area is feasible and State has concurred in the theme and content of the broadcast. They

~ will take place around- the  end-of- the month. --No-proposals~for-actions~by the-Department—--
of State have been submitted since the appointment of State's special representative, :

Mr. Hurwitch. They are expected on June 22, 1962.

SOURCE: Memorandum for the Special Group Augme’

from Lansdale re: Progress, Operation MONGOOSE, 20 June 1962

(00397-00398)
FILE:

nted STAFF:

di Genova
DATE: July 1, 1975


G abeq “TRLEOSCEPIOOG CCE0c AH

1A HAS NO OBJECTION TO
: DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
"RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

| | | Abr 4
- | o Act .

DATES: CATEGORIES:
June 19, 1962 MONGOOSE

a
t
i]

iain oe hoedefécted to Mexicoy where

charges of Cuban C t Operations against Latin
American nations. Harvey was to generate a story from Cuban refugee sources that the
original Cardenas incident consisted of a demonstration concerning the shortage of food.
This was to cause ridicule of the Communist regime's use of MIGs,tanks- and troops against

_.....the unarmed people_of Cardenas. "The Cuban -source.. to_story_need_not_await—your determina-
tion of the true cause of the Cardenas demonstration." .

' mp

; di Genova
DATE? July 1, 1975

SOURCE: Memorandum for William Harvey, CIA, from Lans-
dale, re: Impact Actions, 19 June 1962 (00395)

FILE:



Sc6oc AH

3 abed. TSLEOZTE : PLlOg

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED .

PERSONS/ENTITIES: | CATEGORIES:
ROUP—-AUGMENTED, June 20, 196 | Special Group Augmented

sMONGOOSE,
ansdalé\», TAYLOR, JOHNSON, GIL-

Juty—34;-1962 | MONGOOSE
IRICK¥” MCCONE, RFK, LEMNITZER, June-125-1962 |
GROG USK, KOHLER, (HURWITCH May-t7;—1962-__ June 22, 1962
CCURRENCE:

Due to reports of popular unrest, political strife, and economic disruptions
inside Cuba, it was suggested that the Special Group Augmented consider the value of
having an SNIE on Cuba made_in the immediate future. The CIA has agreed as a matter of
priority to reach a stage /iingth terrogata Pedré Roig} where he can be surfaced

to make public charges of Cuban Communist Opérations against Latin American nations.

For operational effectiveness, the CIA has selected a new area in Cuba for its initial
radio broadcasts from a submarine for "Voice of Cuba." The Navy states that the new

area is feasible and State has concurred in the theme and content of the broadcast. They

_ .....Will_ take place_around the end_of.the month. --No_proposals--for-actions by—the-Department

of State have been submitted since the appointment of State's special representative,
Mr. Hurwitch. They are expected on June 22, 1962.

SOURCE: Memorandum for the Special Group Augmented | STAFF:

trom Lansdale re: Progress, Operation MONGOOSE, 20 June 1962 |

(00397-00398) H di Genova
PILE: . DATE: July 1, 1975



£ abed TSLEOZSE !PII0g SG60c AH

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

(See the 13 names listed below)

or early 1961, of

1. ALLEN DULLES,

CIA HAS NO 0

BJECTION
DE
ELE SSIFICATION. AND/OR

REL
AS Sanirigeg 5 S0CuMENT

G ?
F Sc ‘

DATES: CATEGORIES: ‘pop SrkcreT
FeEg, 1761 aa he
ae fall Carch 1)
(Ar ROK ATE) “CUBR — PHASE I Cea

The I.G. REPORT identified the following persons who knew, in late 1960
the PHASE I plan to assassinate CASTRO:
DCT 10. WILLIAM HARVEY, Chief, FI/D

2. GEN. C. P. CABELL, DDCI : 11. SIDNEY GOTTLIEB, Special Assistant to

3. RICHARD BISSELL, DD/P
PYARDS'; > D/Security
JAMES O'CONNELL, Office of Security,

‘SHEFFIELD 1

the DD/P (GOTTLIEB's name was en- |
“countered repeatedly in this inquiry,
but he denies knowing, of the opera-

the case officer : tion in 1960-61.)
NE, Chief, WH/4 12. ROBERT BANNERMAN, DD/Security
CORNELIUS ROOSEVELT, Chief, TSD “<~ . 13. J. C. KING, Chief, WH Division (He too

y
5
6. J.D. ESTERL
7
8
9

LW A

SOURCE: T.G. REPORT 1967, pp.

FILE:

Chemical Division, TSD denies knowinp, of the operation at
thief, Operations Division, Medical Services the time.)

34-35

STAFF: Baron

DATE: 28.6.75


g abeq TeLE0Zze : PIO Gc6os AH

OBJECTION TO >

CAS NICATION ANO/OR 4NaWn9d0d ST

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT any
D

AS Sane ae

: ‘a yca
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: | CATEGORIES: on
Sam Gold Dr. Edward Gunn |
ptember 25, 1961 Castro

Juan Orta

Comelius Roosevelt ”
OCCURRENCE? In discussing the possible methods of accomplishing the mission, Sam

Gold suggested that they not resort to firearms, but ‘tHAL’If he could be fumished with |

some type of potent pill that could be placed in Castro's food or drink. Sam indicated —

that he has a prospective nominee in the person of Juan Orta, a Cuban official, who had

been receiving back payments from the gambling interests who still had access to Castro,

and was in a financial bind. Cornelius Roosevelt, Chief, TSD was consulted and assigned

a Jeo develop a pill that had the elements of rapid solubility, high
éthal content, and Tittle or no traceability. .Six of these.items were produced-and
after being checked out for their effectiveness by Dr. Edward M. Gunn, three pills were
ultimately turned over to Sam for the mission. Neither TSD nor Dr. Gunn was briefed on

the ultimate use of the pills.

SOURCE? Cra Justice File R-153 Memorandum by Howard J. Osbor
to Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, Subj: Robert A, Maheu
dategyJune 24, 1966.

STAPF:

Rhea

paTE: July 1, 1975


6 ahea- Teceozze:pioog sceoc aH

_ GAHAS NO

_ DECLASSIFICATION anya
OFTHIS DOCUMENT po,”

a | Ae)

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
Bautzer
O'Connell
Maheu
Edwards

OCCURRENCE:

CATEGORIES:

Carbre

O'Connell testified that Maheu helped CIA to supply women for Cire

Request came to O'Connell from Edwards. Greg Bautzer introduced GAT :
‘Signs humpltcawer to starlet at Hollywood cocktail party at Maheu's request. -

CIA arranged for starlet to go to N.Y.C. to be with d@wi@ wfor rest of his stay

GmMMneiica, CIA monitored mail thereafter between sisygul and_starlet.... 2...
- unbeknowngst” to either, “(Tr. 144-151) i
S at om ,
CIA, again through Maheu, get up cocktail party for eademin San Francisco, i

SOURCE:
Testimony of James O'Connell, 5/30/7

FILE:

GY


oT abeg TaLEOZZE:PIOoG Gc6os AH

oaseo008
ayes
Wat oD
ns oA
al
(i)
PERSONS/ENTITIES : - DATES: i CATEGORIES:
TSD  GIANCANA Late | CUBA
January | (Syndicate/Phase I)
DK errie 1961
O'CONNELL +7
OCCURRENCE:

TSD prepared poison pills (of Botulin) rather than liquid
poison. (24).

\romembers meeting with EDWARDS and O'CONNELL in

~ “EDWARDS""OFfice to discuss the requirement™''(24)-for—porson

pills, which had initially been the preference of GIANCANA.

SOURCE: IG REPORT, 1967 STAPF: Baron

FILE: DATE: 7/3/75


“ {] ebea teicozzeiproog sc6oc BH

PERSONS/ENTITIFS: DATES: CATEGORIES: ‘Top SECRET

re Gls f NT

(See the 13 names listed below) Feb, Met fat . Ceara >
- v CAPE RC KimAT) -COBE — PHASE I

2 TR ENT t

—EL «The T.G. REPORT identified the following persons who knew, in late 1960
or early 1961, of the PHASE I plan to assassinate CASTRO:

1. ALLEN DULLES, DCI * 10. WILLIAM HARVEY, Chief, FI/D

2. GEN. C. P. CABELL, DDCI : - 11. SIDNEY GOTTLIEB, Special Assistant to

3. RICHARD BISSELL, DD/P : the DD/P (GOTTLIEB's name was en-
~—l SHEFFIELD EDWARDS; D/Security ~~~ ~ countered repeatedly~in-this—inquiry;

5. JAMES O'CONNELL, Office of Security, | but he denies knowing of the opera-

the case officer —~ tion in 1960-61.)

6. J.D. ESTERLINE, Chief, WH/4 12. ROBERT BANNERMAN, DD/Security

7. CORNELIUS ROOSEVELT, Chief, TSD 13. J.C. KING, Chief, WH Division (He too

8. — Chemical Division, TSD denies knowing of the operation at

9. “EDWARD GUNN, Chief, Operations Division, Medical Services the time.)

STAFF: Baron

DATE: 28.6.75



et afeq TeLeozze:pla0ead cc6oc AH

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
(See list of names below.)

A710
ganecne MOR "
connect Gout
pects, or ws
PEERED y
gre aN
( @)

CATEGORIES: ‘TOP SECRET
CASTRO ~~
GABA — SYNDICATE/PHASE II --

KNOWLEDGE OF PHASE IT

CARD 1. of 3

OCCURRENCE: the list of persons with knowledge of PHASE II of the CASTRO ASSASSINATION

OPERATION differs from those who knew of PHASE I. Those with knowledge of PHASE II are:

1. RICHARD HELMS, DD/P

2. WILLIAM HARVEY, Chief, Task Force W
34 TAMES O'CONNELL, Office of Security

(He knows that Harvey took over the

__ operation | and | delivered pills, arms, and

equipment in April 1962. He does not”
know of developments after May 1962.)
4. SHEFT'IELD EDWARDS, D/Security (He
knows of the fact of the turnover to
HARVEY, but states he knows nothing of
developments thereafter. )

SOURCE: T.G. REPORT 3 “Te

5. d. C, KING, Chief, WH Division (He stated in
our interview with him that he knew that HARVEY
was having, meetings with members of the gambling,
syndicate in 1962.)

Wereters in Reno (sic) in the winter of 1962. )

7. TED SHACKLEY, Chief, JMWAVE (He assisted
HARVEY in the delivery or arms and equioment to
VARONA in April 1962, but presumably did not lmow
the identities of the recipients nor — (con't.)

STAPF:

Baron

DATE: 28.6.75


€T abed TeLeozce:PII0ed GG60s AH

Ae

10. VARONA'S SON-IN-LAW

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

(Same instruction as card 1.)

CECURRENCE:

SHACKLEY, cont; the purpose for which the
material was to be used.)

8. TSD par-
ticipation was"Tintited to furnishing the
pills to O'CONNELL on 18 April 1962.)

~9. ANTONIO VARONA, thé Cuban’ exilé leader “~~~

(He presumably was not aware of government
sponsorship. )

(He too was pre-
sumably not aware of government's role.)

SOURCE:

PILE:

DATES:

CATEGORIES:

CARD 2 of 3

11. MACEO, ROSELLI's "Man"  (MACKO
probably knew there was a srovernment
connection, but may not have identified
CIA as the agency.)

STAPF:

DATE:


FT shea TaLeoezée:pIoed Co6e0S AH

PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:

Edwards
King
Bannerman

Castro

OCCURRENCE:
O'Connell testified that when EDWARDS was on leave, once, KING spoke to

Robert BANNERMAN (Who was not witting of Castro project) and O'Connell had uo
to tell BANNERMAN that B. was not "privy" to project O'Connell was embarassed.

(Tr. 36, 99- 100). No one but KING, not Gomez or Bot

SOURCE: STAFF:
Testimony of James P. O'Connell, 5/30/75 John Bayly
PILE: DATE!

6/30/75


_ S&T eed. ‘Teceozze:Plo0ead cseog aH

GIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED
22-23-44

OM)

PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:

N(then Chief of Station
nti October 1960)

t A gwas Chief of Statigi=

aK ons_officer.and was at_the time _
of the cae ing Ni
assistant and was used as the communications link and for the passing of
arms. She resigned in 1964 and was believed to be living in Puerto Rico.
* GHOMMNBhas the headquarters branch chief and was, at the time of the

(continued )

SOURCE:
Report of the CIA Inspector General, 1967 pare; JED

PILE: Cage 6/28/75



9T ahead Teigosze:Plocd seeoc AH

PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:

Trujillo

CARD #2

I. G. indicated that people were not interviewed because they could only
furnish minor details and "we think it unlikely they would be able to

add significantly to the quite complete record that appears in the fEvE
operations files." (4=5)- > Se rr ree

SOURCE:

JFD
1" 628/75


@ @ @

CiA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

22-3-4¢%° Com

ca)

£T aheqd TRLeosZepII0g CoEos AH

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES: -
Sam Gold Dr. Edward Gunn |
/ ptember 25, 1961 Castro
Juan Orta‘

Ormelius Roosevelt

. OCCURRENCE: In discussing the possible methods of accomplishing the mission, Sam

1 . Gold suggested that they not resort to firearms, but ‘tadt“if he could be fumished with |
some type of potent pill that could be placed in? Castro's food or drink. Sam indicated —
that he has a prospective nominee In the person of Juan Orta, a Cuban official, who had
been receiving back payments from the gambling interests who still had access to Castro,
and was_in a financial bind. Cornelius Roosevelt, Chief, TSD was consulted and assigned

}to develop a pill that had the elements of rapid solubility, high
commen “Jethalcontent,~and Little-or-no traceability. ~Six-of-these items were~produced-and
after being checked out for their effectiveness by Dr. Edward M. Gunn, three pills were

iy : ultimately turned over to Sam for the mission. Neither TSD nor Dr. Gunn was briefed on ‘
* the ultimate use of the pills.

_ TOP SECRET

SOURCE: . . STATE?
——— CIA Justice File R-153 Memorandum by Howard J. Osbo:
to Deputy Director of Central intelligence , Subj: Robert A. Maheu

‘ . dated yfyne 24, 1966. DATE: July 1, 1975

Rhea
