# 157-10005-10158

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/10/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

SSCIA

157-10005-10158

MEMORANDUM

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

SSCIA

FROM: CARGILL, MASON

TO : BELIN, DAVID W.

TITLE: FILE SEARCH FOR MATERIAL RELEVANT TO ASSASSINATION PLANS

DATE: 05/01/1975

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

EXAMINATION-DCI MCCONE PERSONAL FILES 11/29/61 TO

12/31/64

FILES PERTAINING TO CUBA AND OPERATION MONGOOSE

SEARCH OF FILES FOR MATERIALS RELEVANT

ASSASSINATION PLAN

MCCONE PAPERS

OSWALD, LEE HARVEY

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1A; 1B; 1C; Donor Restricted

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

BOX 435-7

v9.1

---

## Page 2

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 157-10005-10158

RECORD SERIES

: MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

September 25, 1998

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of Postponements: 5

The redactions in this document have been postponed under the provisions set forth in The John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992.

The number within the brackets is provided to represent the appropriate substitute language from the list

below.

Board Review Completed: 09/09/98

01 Crypt

02 Digraph

03 CIA Employee

04 Asset

05 Source

06 Name of Person

07 Pseudonym

08 Identifying Information

09 Date

10 Location

11 Country

12 CIA Installation in Africa/ Near East*

13 CIA Installation in East Asia/ Pacific*

14 CIA Installation in Northern Europe*

15 CIA Installation in Western Europe*

16 CIA Installation in Western Hemisphere*

17 Cable Prefix for CIA Installation in Africa/ Near East*

18 Cable Prefix for CIA Installation in East Asia/ Pacific*

19 Cable Prefix for CIA Installation in Northern Europe*

20 Cable Prefix for CIA Installation in Western Europe*

21 Cable Prefix for CIA Installation in Western Hemisphere*

* The number after the hyphen tracks of individual locations.

22 Dispatch Prefix

23 File Number

24 Operational Details

25 None

26 Scelso (The information is the true name of the

individual whose pseudonym is John Scelso.)

27 CIA Job Title

28 CIA

29 Name of Organization

30 Social Security Number

31 Alias Documentation

32 Official Cover (Details of Official Cover)

98 Information not believed relevant to JFK assassination

99 See the special substitute language above.

Page 90

---

## Page 3

5/mg

4/163/98

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 09/30/93

Page: 1

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER: 157-10005-10158

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

1212/98

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM : CARGILL, MASON

TO : BELIN, DAVID W.

TITLE :

MEMORANDUM

DATE : 05/01/75

PAGES

: 4

SUBJECTS :

SEARCH OF FILES FOR MATERIALS RELEVANT ASSASSINATION PLAN

EXAMINATION-DCI MCCONE PERSONAL FILES 11/29/61 TO 12/31/64

FILES PERTAINING TO CUBA AND OPERATION MONGOOSE

MCCONE PAPERS

OSWALD, LEE HARVEY

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : S

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

BOX 435-7

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 4

Reference

copy, JFK

Collection:

HSCA

(RG 233)

SSCI EOX i

435-7

. -

May

• 1, 1975

L-V-20

MEMORANDUM

To :

From:

Subject:

David W. Belin

Mason Cargill

SEARCH OF FILES FOR MATERIALS

RELEVANT TO ASSASSINATION PLANS

I have completed an examination of the personal

files of DCI McCone from November 29, 1961, through

December 31, 1964, and the files relating to MONGOOSE and

ZRRIFLE compiled by the Inspector General. Detailed lists

of documents in these with any possible relevance are

attached as Tabs A, B, and C.

All the documents in McCone's files relating to

Cuba and the files relating to MONGOOSE certainly indicate a

strong desire to bring about the downfall of the Castro govern-

ment, along with extreme pressure from the President and

Attorney General to find a way to do so.

However, nothing in

was aware of plots by certain Cuban exiles to liquidate Castro

(See page 9 of Tab A.) and that these were reported to the

Special Group.

You have requested copies of documents re-

lating to this in a letter to MI. Knoche of April 24.

one document indicates that McCone once stated one ultimate •

centers of the regime to bring about the eventual liquidation

of the Castro/communist entourage and the elimination of the

Soviet presence from Cuba." (emphasis added) (See first

paragraph, page 8, Tab

A.)

The only documents in McCone's files referring

to the Kennedy assassination or Oswald are summarized on

page 7 of Tab A under the heading

• "November 23, 1963'-

December 31, 1963."

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

cc: Narvi: Gray

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

RMC : clb

(3)

BINCIVE

it-1-94

PROPERTY OF

015.50 THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE

• •

---

## Page 5

- 2 -

Most documents in the ZRRIFLF files indicate that its

primary purpose was to recruit foreigners to conduct bur-

glaries and safecrackings overseas to obtain code materials.

However, there are a few more incriminating papers which seem

to indicate a second purpose of ZRRIFLE, probably, the estab-

lishment of an assassination capability and perhaps even a

plan to use one agent, Jose Marie Andre Mankel (QJWIN) , in an

assassination attempt in the Congo. I refer specifically to

documents summarized, in Tab C, at paragraph 11, page 4; para-

raph 24, page l; paragraph 2, page 8; paragraph l, page 9

aragraph 3, page II

I definitely feel we should obtain copies of the

documents underlined

above, as well as one which indicates

some zRRiFLe activity in the Miami area, summarized at para-

• graph 4, page 9, Tab C.

Also, we should obtain a copy of the

document, referred to above, in which McCone advocated that

dissident Cubans bring about "the eventual liquidation of the

Castro/cormunist entourage." I have prepared a letter for

your signature requesting them, attached hereto.

TOP

SECRET SENSITIVE

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE CONCE MEECE

CAGSI

---

## Page 6

SECRET

May 1, 1975

Mr. E. Henry Knoche

Assistant to the Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Knoche:

In our review of the files of Director McCone and

of the files relating to the ZRRIFLE project compiled by the

Inspector General, we have noted several documents which are

relevant to this Commission's inquiry and copies of which I

would like to request at this time. These documents are:

at chia th

1. An April 7, 1964, memorandum for the record

by Mr. McCone on a meeting with the President and others with

respect to Cuba Covert Action. It is filed at Tab 19 in a

file marked "April 3 - May 20, 1964" in Box 8 of Mr. McCone's

papers.

2. Handwritten notes written on small

(approximately 3" x 5") yellow paper which are filed imme-

diately in front of a dispatch dated December 7, 1962, from

COS Luxembourg to Chief, KUTUBE-D, in a file marked "ZRRIFLE/

QUWIN/RYBAT OPERATIONAL," included in the Inspector General's.

compilation of materials relating to ZRRIFLE.

3.

A memorandum, dated January 31, 1962, from

Justin E. O'Donnell to Chief, Accounts Branch, Finance Division,

Re:

Payments to QJWIN, in a file marked "ZRRIFLE Administrative/

Financial."

4. Contents of a large yellow envelope marked

"ZRRIFLE - Receipts for accounting

submitted by w.K. Harvey..•

covering period 13-21 April 1963..." contained in a larger

yellow envelope marked "Documents and Receipts supporting

• SECRET

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE WON

01652

---

## Page 7

SECRET

- 2 -

ZRRIFLE activities," which is filed immediately after a

dispatch to Luxembourg from Headquarters, dated 30 September

1963, in the file marked "ZRRIFLE Administrative/Financial."

Ten yellow legal size pieces of paper

written on in ink, entitled "Project ZRRIFLE" filed at the

very back of the file marked "ZRRIFLE - QJWIN Project/

Contract."

Thank you very much for your help with this matter.

Sincerely yours,

David W. Belin

Executive Director

THE VALiE Ma82 Orrida

SECRET

01633

---

## Page 8

Reference

copy, JFK

Collection:

HSCA

(RG 233)

BECRET - SENT

MC CONE PAPERS

NOVEMBER 24, 1961 - DECEMBER 31, 1964

REFERENCES TO CUBA ASSASSINATIONS,

WARREN COMMISSION MATTERS

BOX 2: MEMORANDA FOR RECORD

File: November 29, 1961 - April 5, 1962

December 5, 1961, Meeting with Attorney General Kennedy -

"Lansdale operation" mentioned in paragraph 12.

December 27, 1961, Meeting with Attorney General Kennedy -

"Lansdale operation" mentioned in paragraph 5.

January 22, 1962, Meeting with Attorney General Kennedy -

Reference to a "Lansdale paper" to be discussed by the 5412

Committee plus Robert Kennedy•

F=:

April

5, 1962, Memos on Special Group/Mongoose Project -

General discussion of possible military intervention in Cuba.

File: April 7, 1962 - August 21, 1962

(40) - April 10, 1962, phone call to Bundy explaining that

Attorney General upset that Perrez was apparently telling

people in Miami about his five meetings with the Attorney

General. Cardona was to meet JFK that day.

(61) - July 3, 1962, meeting with Attorney General

included a short discussion of

operations apparently in

(86) - August 21, 1962, meeting with Rush, McNamara, Alexis

Johnson, the Attorney General, Director of Central Intelligence,

General

Taylor,

Lemnitzer, and M. Bundy - a general discussion

of Cuban situation and possible courses of action

• if MRBM's

are discovered in Cuba:

"McNamara expressed strong feelings

that we should tale

every possible aggressive

action in the fields of intelligence, sabo

tage and guerrilla warfare, utilizing Cubans

and do such other things as might be indi-

cated to divide the Castro regime."

(emphasis added)

PROPERTY OF

01509 THE WHITE HOUSE TEETS

---

## Page 9

copy, JFK Collection:

HSCA (RG 233)

- SENSITIVE

- 2 -

File: August 24, 1962 - December 31, 1962

(97) - October 5, 1962, Meeting between DCI and Bundy:

McCone wanted to be more activist toward Cuba - Bundy was

more conservative. (No specifics)

(118) - December 17, 1962, DCI memo re Earman Report on

Cuba [MISSING]

[Apparently not a meeting or phone call]

(Comments on Report on Missile Crisis, according to Elder)

(119) - December 18, 1962, DCI memo re Earman Report on Cuba

[MISSING]

(120) - December 19, 1962, DCI memo re Earman Report on Cuba

[MISSING]

File: June 1, 1963 - February 9, 1963

(12) - January 21, 1963, phone call between DCI and

Eisenhower (transcript)

about Cuba. (No mention of

assassination.)

File: February 9, 1963 - April 9, 1963

(36) - March 5, 1963, Memo of DCI discussion with Attorney

General [No one

to see without DCI permission] (DESTROYED]

According to Elder, dealt with wiretap of newsmen.]

(38) - March 7, 1963, Memo of conversation with Attorney

General at Hickory Hill [No one to see without DCI permission]

[DESTROYED]

(52) - March 30, 1963, DCI discussion with Eisenhower and

Lundahl on

I "current status of Cuba" [DESTROYED]

File: April 15, 1963 - June 4, 1963

(68) - Memo of DCI on Cuban Policy: "Random thoughts

developed by DCI on various aspects of the Cuban problem

and the discussions at Standing Group prepared for use by

representatives of DCI at meetings on this subject during

his absence from the country," April 25, 1963, contains

the following:

= 4+

01510

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE PRECE

---

## Page 10

Reference

copy, JFK Collection:

HSCA (RG 233)

- SENSITIVI

- 3 -

"I agree with the ONE estimate that

Castro's political position will im-

prove within the next year (barring

assassination)."

The context clearly indicates, however, that DCI is not

proposing this.

(77) - DCI memo of May 18, 1963, on Haiti: contains this

statement:

"Apparently Duvalier, in the absence of assassi-

nation, will survive the efforts of internal opposition

elements..." Context indicates DCI was not proposing or

considering assassination.

(61) - April 15, 1963, Memo of meeting between Attorney

General and Director of Central Intelligence

Angleton operation, Cuban sabotage proposals,about "Helms/

[DESTROYED]

(62) - April 17, 1963, Meeting of DCI and Rusk about:

"Helms/Angleton Project..."

[DESTROYED]

File: June 5, 1963 - July 20, 1963

Nothing Relevant

File: July 23, 1963 - November 26, 1963

(133) - August 20, 1963, Luncheon with DCI, Colonel Grogan,

Tom Ross of Chicago Sun Times

[MISSING]

(MISS September 5, 1963, DCI and Bundy, "After Special Group"

(138) - September 7, 1963, DCI and Papich [MISSING]

(138) - September 12, 1963, DCI and J. Edgar Hoover at

Justice Department

[MISSING]

(158.5) - October 24, 1963, DCI/Robert F. Kennedy lunch at

Kennedy's house

[MISSING]

(168) - November 26, 1963, DCI and Bundy on message about

Kennedy assassination MISSING

01511

SECRETA

TПТУ5

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUS:

---

## Page 11

вскеТ - SENSITIVE

- 4 -

(168) - November 15, 1963, DCI and Rusk: Sukarno had said

that British and CIA were

plotting to kill him.

Rusk asked

if CIA had any information about a plot by British.

DCI

said no.

Reference

copy, JFK Collection:

HSCA (RG 233)

File: November 27, 1963 - December 31, 1963

[Entire contents of file missing.]

From titles, nothing here appears relevant.

File: January 1, 1964 - February 11, 1964

Nothing relevant.

=: •

File: February 12, 1964 - April 5, 1964

[Entire contents of file missing.]

(25.5) - February 19, 1964, DCI and Fitzgerald:

"White House

Meeting - Situation

Room - Re: Cuba"

[DESTROYED]

(36.1) - March 14, 1964, Meeting of DCI, Bundy, Helms [DESTROYED]

(46) - April 5, 1964, Meeting of DCI and Rusk: "EYES ONLY -

NO DISTRIBUTION - FSO Richard

Fredericks; Carl Rowan;

Republican Platform of 1960."

[DESTROYED]

File: April 6, 1964 - July 8, 1964

(49) - April 16, 1964, Meeting with:

Senator Cooper,

Stern, Rankin, Willens of subject:

DCI, Justice Waree in

"Met

DCI's Office"

[MISSING]

(58) - May 14, 1964, DCI, Rankin, Helms - Subject:

"Warren

Commission

• (accompanied by Mr.

Helms saw

commission

transcript and returned it to the commission."

"No MR

expected"

[MISSING]

(69) - June 12, 1964, DCI, Mr.

and Mrs. Henry Luce:

"Memos

used at lunch're: Cuban article in TIME" - NO DISTRIBUTION -

nothing on assassinations.

01512

ENSITIVE

PROPERTY

THE WHITE HU

-=^

---

## Page 12

Reference

copy, JFK Collection:

HSCA (RG 233)

- 5 -

File: July 8, 1964 - August 12, 1964

(No file under these dates.)

File: August 12, 1964 - September 10, 1964

Nothing relevant.

File: September 11, 1964 - October 31, 1964

(138) - October 15, 1964, DCI, Sam Papich - "NO DISTRIBUTION -

discussion re Walter Jenkins'

matter.

[DESTROYED]

(143) - October 22, 1964, DCI, Robert Kennedy: "In

Presidential Suite, NYC - Personal discussion EYES ONLY

JAM - NO DISTRIBUTION"

[DESTROYED]

File: November 1, 1964 - December 31, 1964

Nothing relevant.

BOX 8: MEMORANDA OF MEETINGS WITH THE PRESIDENT

File: October 25, 1961 - July 31, 1962

(B) - December 14, 1961, at a meeting with the President

and General Taylor, DCI advised Kennedy that there were

possible dangers that he might be the subject of an assassi-

nation attempt on his planned trip to Colombia and Venezuela,

which the CIA could not guarantee the safety of.

(6) - February 1l, 1962, at a meeting with the President,

Bundy, and Taylor, DCI discussed efforts to convince one

Charles Murphy not to write a certain article for Life

magazine on some subject related to Cuba. Apparently,

article was revised to DCI's satisfaction and then published.

(12) - May 7, 1962, at a meeting with the President and

Taylor, DCI discussed Operation Mongoose in some detail.

No mention of assassinations.

:==:

01513

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HONOR MOORE

---

## Page 13

copy, JFK Collection:

HSCA (RG 233)

TE SENSTY

- 6 -

File: July 31, 1962 - November 29, 1962 [actually covering

through Dec. 18, 1962]

(28) - July 20, 1962: At a meeting with the President,

Taylor, and Alexis Johnson, Mongoose was discussed. No

mention of assassination.

(52) - October 26, 1962: At a meeting of NSC Executive

Committee, DCI discussed Mongoose.

No mention of assassination.

(55) - October 30, 1962: "Memo to DDCI outlining Presidential

[MISSING)

(70) - November 29, 1962:

At a meeting of the NSC

Executive Committee (President absent), DCI discussed

Mongoose. No mention of assassination.

File: January 1, 1963 - March 31, 1963

(7) - January 23, 1963 (4:30 p.m.): Meeting with President,

DCI, and Helms."

No memo present. Listing does not indicate

whether or not memo was prepared, even though it generally

indicates when memos were not prepared. Secretary's note

of 1/27/72 (MB) notes:

"No MR in file"

(8) - January 23, 1963 (4:45 p.m.): Meeting between DCI

and President - missing memo; same situation as #(7) above.

(28) - March 25, 1963: In meeting with, President. D

"reviewed the requirements for

intelligence

the United States..." President suggested that the DCI talk

with J. Edgar Hoover on this matter.

File: April 1, 1963 - July 1, 1963

(33) - April 16, 1963: In meeting with the President, DCI

discussed two methods of dealing with Castro: (1) "Working

on" Castro to turn him from Soviets; (2) Pressuring USSR to

remove from Cuba and "then to bring about the downfall of

Castro by means which could be developed after the rémoval

of Soviet troops..."

No mention of assassination.

SECRET

01511

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOI

---

## Page 14

Reference

copy, JEK

Collection:

HSCA

(RG 233)

ECRET SENSIVE

- 7 -

(43) - May 27, 1963: In meeting of President, DCI,

and

others, policy towards covert operations against

discussed. No mention of assassination.

were

(50) - June 19, 1963: In meeting with the President and

others, DCI discussed plans for covert operations against

Cuba, including

• "external sabotage."

Vague memo of record

by Desmond FitzGerald, but no mention of assassination.

File: July 1, 1963 - November 12, 1963

(74) - November 12, 1963: At a meeting of the President, DCI,

and others, 'McCone emphasized that to a very considerable

extent these [Cuban exile groups]: are uncontrollable and

forecast that once Artime was

in business, we might expect

some events to take place which

Cuba; no mention of assassination.)

File: November 23, 1963 - December 31, 1963

(1) November 23, 1963

(memo of November 25): DCI told

Lyndon B. Johnson of information received from Mexico City.

DCI later called Rusk to tell him of information from Mexico City:

...the holding of a Mexican employee of the Cuban embassy by

Mexican officials for interrogation concerning Lee Oswald."

(4) November 25 and 26, 1963 (memo of November 26): In

meetings with the President and the DCI, the President expressed

"contempt" at Justice Department suggestion of independent inves-

tigation of John F. Kennedy's assassination.

He instructed the

DCI to insure CIA cooperation with the FBI report.

(4) November 29, 1963: In a meeting with DCI, Lyndon B.

Johnson, McNamara, and Bundy, the DCI apparently gave

latest

developments in Mexico City investigation of Oswald.

A list

of "late developments" is in

file, to be used. for this purpose.

(Obtain copy.)

File: January 1, 1964 - April 2, 1964

Nothing relevant.

STORAT

01515

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE NEE CE

---

## Page 15

SECRET - SENSITIVE

- 8 -

File: April 3, 1964 - May 20, 1964

(19) - April 7, 1964: Meeting of DCI, President, and others

re Cuba Covert Action.

Here DCI advocates strong program to obtain overall objective

set forth in a paper of June 8, 1963:

"The ultimate objective

of this policy would be to encourage dissident elements in the

military and other power centers of the regime to bring about the

eventual liquidation of the Castro/communist entourage

and the

elimination of the Soviet presence from Cuba." (emphasis added)

[OBTAIN COPYI

File: May 21, 1964 - October 5, 1964

September 30, 1964:

Meeting of "DCI; President; et al" to

discuss

"Warren Commission Report - (to set up Presidential

Committee)" - No memo indicated

to have been prepared.

File: October 6, 1964 - December 28, 1964

Nothing Relevant.

BOX 1: 303 COMMITTEE, COUNTERINSURGENCY, SPECIAL GROUP,

CHRONO (1962)

File: 303 - January - December, 1963

Several sets of minutes have the following notations after

paragraphs dealing with Cuban operations:

minutes for additional items." - No such "special minutes"

appear to be contained in this file.*

However, this same nota-

tion appeared in connection with other subjects.

This file contains several discussions of the Haitian problem.

Although it's clear the participants would like to be rid of

Duvalier, there is no mention of assassination.

Nothing else relevant.

File: January - December, 1964

Contains discussion of Haitian problem, and CIA agreed to

"explore methods of dealing with the Duvalier problem in

the immediate future."

(May 12,

1964)

*Other than certain memoranda prepared by McCone.

SECRET - SENSITIVE

01516

PROPERTY OF

•'ITE HOUSE AFFICE

---

## Page 16

Reference

copy, JEK Collection:

HSCA

(RG 233)

- 9 -

The minutes of the June 18, 1964, meeting (dated June 22, 1964)

contained the following:

[OBTAIN COPY]

(signed by Peter Jessup)

"A paper was discussed on alleged plans which involve

the underworld to assassinate certain Cuban leaders.

Mr. McCone was somewhat skeptical of the reported plots and

stated that he would like to go into the matter further.

Others, including Mr. Bundy, felt that the United States was

being put on notice and should do everything in its power to

ascertain promptly the veracity of the reports and then under-

take prevention.

It was decided that Mr. Bundy would call the

matter to the Attorney General's attention as a matter of law

enforcement."

Mr. McCone's personal memorandum for the record on this

meeting (dated) June 18,

1964, contains substantially the same

information.

[OBTAIN COPY] It refers to a June 10, 1964, CIA

memorandum "reporting plans of Cuban exiles to assassinate

leading Cuban government leaders."

This memo apparently had

been sent to Special Group members and the Attorney General.

[OBTAIN COPY] McCone's memo contains the following:

-=1.

"ACTION: Discuss with General Carter and Mr. Helms steps we

should take to establish the credibility of the report; also

communicate with the FBI through Mr. Papich. Also I should

call the Attorney General personally."

The official minutes of the July 30, 1964, 303 Committee

meeting (dated July 31, 1964) (referred to in 1967 IG report)

contain no mention of assassination or even of Cuba.

Mr. McCone's personal memorandum (dated July 31, 1964) had

only the following reference to Cuba:

"Proposed infiltration/exfiltration operations into Cuba for

August were approved and the July operations were noted."

File: Counterinsurgency - January - June, 1962

Nothing relevant.

01517

PROPERTY OF

---

## Page 17

Reference

copy, JFK Collection:

HSCA (RG 233)

- 10 .

BOX 7 - MISCELLANEOUS

Envelope - "Cuba Loose Ends"

Much information on Mongoose. No mention of assassination.

Envelope containing FBI report of October 16, 1963, entitled

"Communism and the Negro Movement - A Current Analysis"

contains comments on Dr. King's personal life.

Relayed by

J. Edgar Hoover to McCone.

-

File: "Cuba - Background Material"

This file contains only material relating to the Cuban missile

crisis.

It contains no references to any assassinations.

File: "White House"

This file, covering 1962 and 1963, contains correspondence

to, from, and of interest to the White House.

SENSITIVE

PROPERTY OF

01518

---

## Page 18

- 11 -

BOX 5: MISCELLANEOUS

The file entitled "Cuba Package" does not appear to be in this

box.

The name of this file, however, appears on the page which

purports to list the files in the box.

File: Cuba 1962

Nothing relevant to assassinations.

File: Cuba 1964

February 21, 1964, memorandum for the Director of Central

Intelligence from Desmond FitzGerald, Chief, Special Affairs

Staff, entitled

"Spectrum of Courses of Action with Respect

to Cuba."

This nine-page memorandum outlines many possible

courses of action which the U.S. Government could take with

respect to Fidel Castro even including measures as drastic as

an actual invasion of the island by U.S. military forces. It.!-

however, contains no mention or reference to possible assassi-

Reference copy, JFK Collection:

HSCA

(RG 233)

BOX 6: MISCELLANEOUS

File: Presidential Briefing, December 22, 1964

Nothing relevant to assassination.

File: "M" File

Nothing relevant to our subject of interest.

File: "D" File

This file contains papers dealing with the services of Allen

Dulles

as a consultant to the Agency after his retirement.

There is no mention of the subject in which we are interested.

File: "W" File

Nothing relevant.

:

PROPERTY OF

---

## Page 19

SECR

- 12 -

BOX 4: MISCELLANEOUS

From the listing of files contained, nothing appeared likely

to contain relevant information.

Therefore, the files in this

box were not examined.

Reference copy, JFK Collection: HSCA (RG 233)

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE

015.00

---

## Page 20

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/10/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

SSCIA

157-10005-10201

RECORD SERIES: MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

Document Information

ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION

CARGILL, MASON

BELIN, DAVID W.

SEARCH OF FILES FOR MATERIAL RELEVANT TO ASSASSINATION PLANS

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/01/1975

2

CUBA

SEARCH FILES FOR MATERIALS RELEVANT TO

ASSASSINATION PLANS

RE: FILES RELATING TO MONGOOSE AND ZRRIFLE

COMPILED BY IG

OPERATION MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1A; 1B; Donor Restricted

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/24/1994

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: BOX 436-7

v9.1

---

## Page 21

Date: 03/21/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10005-10201

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION

FROM : CARGILL, MASON

TO : BELIN, DAVID W.

TITLE :

SEARCH OF FILES FOR MATERIAL RELEVANT TO ASSASSINATION PLANS

DATE : 05/01/75

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

SEARCH FILES FOR MATERIALS RELEVANT TO ASSASSINATION PLANS

RE: FILES RELATING TO MONGOOSE AND ZRRIFLE COMPILED BY IG

OPERATION MONGOOSE

CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: U

RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/24/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

BOX 436-7

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 22

TUNGLASSIFIEDTIVE

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

Washington, DC 20500

May 1, 1975

436-7

436-07

(0201

SSCI BOX #

6-x1-24

MEMORANDUM

To :

From:

David W. Belin

Mason Cargill MY

Subject:

SEARCH OF FILES FOR MATERIALS

RELEVANT TO ASSASSINATION PLANS

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

10 MAR 9A

1. CA

I)(B

I have completed an examination of the personal

files of DCI McCone from November 29, 1961, through

December 31, 1964, and the files relating

to MONGOOSE and

ZRRIFLE compiled by the Inspector General. Detailed lists

of documents in these with any possible relevance are

attached as Tabs A, B, and C.

Reference copy, JFK

Collection:

HSCA (RG 233)

strong desire to bring about the downfall of the Castro govern-

ment, along with extreme pressure from the President and

Attorney General to find a way to do so.

However, nothing in

these files indicates any plan to assassinate Castro. However,

in one of McCone's files there is an indication that the Agency

was aware of plots by certain Cuban exiles to liquidate Castro

(See page 9 of Tab A.) and that these were reported to the

Special Group.

You have requested copies of documents re-

lating to this in a letter to Mr. Knoche of April 24.

Also,

one document indicates that McCone once stated

one ultimate

objective of our policy toward Cuba should be "

encourage dissident elements in the military and other power™

centers of the regime to bring about the eventual liquidation

of the Castro/communist entourage and the elimination of the

Soviet presence from Cuba.

paragraph, page 8, Tab A.)

The only documents in McCone's files referring

to the Kennedy assassination or Oswald are summarized on

page? of Tab A under the heading "November 23, 1963 -

December 31, 1963."

cc: Marvin Gray

• 02377

RMC : clb

(3)

TOP UNCEASSIFIEDVE

CHOPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE

---

## Page 23

TOP UNSLASSNSEEE

- 2 -

Most documents in the ZRRIFLE files indicate that its

primary purpose was to recruit foreigners

However, there are a few more incriminating papers which seem

to indicate a second purpose of ZRRIFLE, probably, the estab-

lishment of an assassination capability and perhaps even a

plan to use one agent,

(QJWIN) , in

an

assassination attempt

in the Congo. I refer specifically to

documents summarized, in Tab C, at paragraph 1l, page 4; para-

graph 24, page 7; paragraph 2, page 8: paragraph i, page 9:

paragrapn s, page

I definitely feel we should obtain copies of the

documents underlined above, as well as one which indicates

graph 4, page 9, Tab C.

dissident Cubans bring about

Castro/communist entourage." I have prepared a letter for

your signature requesting them, attached hereto.

Reference copy, JFK Collection:

HSCA (RG 233)

TOP UNCEASSIFIEDE

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE

02378

---

## Page 24

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/10/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

SSCIA

157-10005-10216

MEMORANDUM

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

ROCK

FROM: CARGILL, MASON

TO:

BELIN, DAVID W.

TITLE: DOCUMENT SEARCH OF PERSONAL FILES OF DCI MCCONE

DATE: 05/01/1975

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA

ZRRIFLE

OPERATION MONGOOSE

MCCONE, JOHN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1A; 1B; Donor Restricted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/29/1994

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS : BOX 436-1

v9.1

---

## Page 25

Date: 04/19/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10005-10216

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Collection:

ORIGINATOR : ROCK

FROM : CARGILL, MASON

TO : BELIN, DAVID W.

TITLE :

DOCUMENT SEARCH OF PERSONAL FILES OF DCI MCCONE

DATE : 05/01/75

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

OPERATION MONGOOSE

ZRRIFLE

MCCONE, JOHN

CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: U

RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, DONOF. REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/29/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

/

COMMENTS :

BOX 436-1

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 26

PEESSENSTTIVE

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

Washington, DC 20500

May 1, 1975

4361

Укау

10216

SSCI BOX #

436-01

C- V11-20

MEMORANDUM

Reference

CoPy, JEK Collection:

To :

David W. Belin

From:

Mason Cargill l

Subject: SEARCH OF FILES FOR MATERIALS

RELEVANT TO ASSASSINATION PLANS

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

14-4-

C3(A)

en

(1) B

files of DCI McCone from November 29, 1961, through

December 31, 1964, and the files relating to MONGOOSE and

ZRRIFLE compiled by the Inspector General. Detailed lists

of documents in these with any possible relevance are

attached as Tabs A, B, and C.

023325

All the documents in McCone's files relating to

Cuba and the files relating to MONGOOSE certainly indicate a

strong desire to bring about the downfall of the Castro govern-

ment, along with extreme pressure from the President and

Attorney General to find a way to do so.

However, nothing in

these files indicates any plan to assassinate Castro. However,

in one of McCone's files

there is an indication that the Agency

was aware of plots by certain Cuban exiles to liquidate Castro

(See page 9 of Tab A.) and that these were reported to the

Special Group.

You have requested copies of documents re-

lating to this in a letter to Mr. Knoche of April 24. Also,

one document indicates that McCone once stated one ultimate

objective of our policy toward Cuba should be "

••

•to

encourage dissident elements in the military and other power

centers of the regime to bring about the eventual liquidation

of the Castro/communist entourage and the elimination of the

Soviet presence from Cuba."

(emphasis added) (See first

paragraph, page 8, Tab A.)

The only documents ín McCone's files referring

to the Kennedy assassination or Oswald are summarized on•

page 7 of Tab A under the heading "November 23, 1963 -

December 31, 1963."

cc: Marvin Gray

01938

RMC : clb

(3)

TOPe

• PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE

SENSITI E

NO OBJECTION

NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL

---

## Page 27

Reference

Copy, JFK Collection:

COR SECRET SENSITIVE

• - 2 -

Most documents in the ZRRIFLE files indicate that its

primary purpose was to recruit foreigners to conduct

However, there are a few more incriminating papers which seem

to indicate a second purpose of ZRRIFLE, probably, the estab-

Lishment of an assassination capability and perhaps even a

plan to use one agent, e

AREKE (QJWIN), in an

assassination attempt in the Congo. I refer specifically to

documents summarized, in Tab C, at paragraph 1l, page 4; para-

pagan apn a page Paragraph 2, page 8: paragraph 2, page 9;

I definitely feel we should obtain copies of the

documents underlined above, as well as one which indicates

graph 4, page 9, Tab C.

dissident Cubans bring about "the eventual liquidation of the

Castro/communist entourage." I have prepared

a letter for

your signature requesting them, attached hereto.

LORISE

01933

; PROFE**

THE WHITE noose erriun

---

