# 157-10008-10172

## Page 1

1157-10008-10172

* Articia Sem

Agency Inform tion

Date:

2/23/201

AGENCY: SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER: 157-10008-10172

RECORD SERIES: LETTER

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Info mation

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA

FROM:

WALLACH, PAUL

TO: SHAHEEN, MICHAEL, ESQ

TITLE: NOVEMBER 18, 1975 DOCUMEN T REQUEST

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/18/1975

4

FBI AGENTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTION

OSWALD, MARINA

OSWALD, LEE HARVEY

NEW ORLEANS

MILTEER

HOSTY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/30/1994

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

BOX 401-4

v9.l

NN 47129

DocId: 32203680 Page 1

23

---

## Page 2

viewer 14.

12/1175

bet?

went

12/1/15

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr., Esq.

November 18, 1975

Page Four

12? All materials sent over to the White House relating

11/28

to the "CIA's attempts to use former agent Robert

Maheu and his private detective, Sam Giancana and

other hoodlums, relative to fostering a plot to

assassinate Castro," which transfer of materials

was

_described by Cartha D. DeLoach in his April 4,

1967 memorandum to Mr. Tolson.

13!

The cable dated March 3, 1967 from Director Hoover to

12/1

the Central Intelligence Agency re:

J and all materials pertaining to or

used in the preparation of said cable.

All reports filed by FBI personnel who were at Parkland 11/24

Hospital in Dallas, Texas at any time on November 22,.

15.

16.

17.

All memoranda or other materials in FBI Headquarters

or Field Office files pertaining to the New Orleans

Chapter of Fair Play for Cuba Committee, including,

but not limited to, degree of informant coverage.

All reports and other materials pertaining to the

allegation that Lee Harvey

Oswald was observed in the

garage adjacent to the FBI'; Dallas Field Office, as

is noted in the FBI's response to Item 4 of the Select

Committee's October 31, 197; document request.

All materials pertaining to the arrest of Thomas Vallee

in Chicago, Illinois on November 2, 1963, and subsequent

FBI investigation to includ: the following:

a.

the report of Special Aents Lansing P. Logan

and James Pond dated De ember 2, 1963, of an

interview of William Co:ley. [file #CG62-6115,

Chicago+)

b.

the report of Special Ayents Logan and Pond of an

interview of Luke Chris:opher Hester. [file #CG62-

6115, Chicago.]

11/28

1124

11/25

cc: William 0. Cregar

Sincerely,

Gand Waland

Paul Wallach

Counsel

AN 17129

DOCT 32203680 Page 2

---

