# 157-10002-10236

## Page 1

157-10002-10236

Date: 10/05/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10002-10236

RECORDS SERIES :

TELETYPE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM :

TO .

PLANS OF CUBAN EXILES TO ASSASSIMATE SELECTED CUBAN LEADERS

DATE : 97/02/65

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :

CUBA

ASSASSINATION

HERNANDEZ, VICTOR

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

GIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

COMMENTS :

Box 333

Folder 2

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NT 50955

DocId: 32282076

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OF

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT-

- AS SANITIZED

+ 91431160191

CO.

Jull 2)

1965.

CLASSIFIED BY 3668 SD/moC

FBI NEW YORK

DECLASSIFY, ON: 25X.

4- 30URGENT 5-2-55 JLi withot the express approval of

The done a rebore to repon to our rente o

TO DIRECTOR 141

your Committen aul the content may nt be disclosed la unharized person.

2-1521

- ENCODED

12-18- FBY.

FROM NEW YORK 2-503

4?

9803 BDD/KSR 4-

(FIL)

VICTO?

DOSINDADOR ESPINOSA HERNANDEZ,

NEUTRALITY MATTERS.,. IS -

CUSA.

Assassinate Cuban Ledera

ESPINOSA APPEARED AT THE NEW YORK OFFICE ON JUNE THOR SINATEIVE

Historie

IN THE COMPANY OF INS INVESTIGAIOR EDWARD KAVAZANJIAN AND FURNISHED THE

FOLLOWING INFORMATION. ••

ESPINOSA RETURNED TO NEW YORK ON FIVE TWENTYNINE LAST AFTER SPENDIS

TVENTYSIX DAYS IN PARIS, WHERE HE WAS IN CONTACT WITH INDIVIDUALS

?.**

INVOLVES

IN PLOT TO ASSASSINATE FIDEL CASIRO AND LEADING CUSAN

онани на

GOVERNE

PERSONALITIES. ESPINOSA SAID IMAT HE HAD RECEIVED A MESSASS

•IC MEET IN FRANCE WITH ROLANDO CUBELA, WHO IS A LIFE LONG FRIEND OF

ESPINOSA AND IS ALLEGED TO BE THE MAIN FIGURE IN THE PLOI. CUBELA

IS IDENTICAL WITH FORMER MAJOR ROLANDO LO CUBELA Y SEGADES, WHO IS

AN INFATE FRIEND OF FEDEL CASING.

ESPINOSA FURTHER STATED THAT

HE COUPERRED IN PARIS FOR ABOUT TE L2

"ITH FALSERTO BINA

WCO, WHO IS S

COA--CIED WITH M

10k

NSPECTION.

JUN

1955

TƠI

ERSASSIS

AND CONSUI

ROAD.

ESPINOSA SAID THAT

THE HAD NO PRIOR

END PACE

ONE

WOLLENE OF THIS PLOT AND NEVE TO PARES CAN

menJUN & 1935

CHOM

REVIEWED BY TURK ASK FORCE 02. 1

O JUN 1 < 0C5: oN 31817; 965-2)667= 105-52793

RELEASE IN FULL

DUJ

RELEASE IN PART

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32282076

Page

TOTAL DENIAL

!

---

## Page 3

SECRET

PAGE TWO

URGING OF CUSELA, WHO MAS BEEN A LIFE-LONG FRIEND OF MIS. HE ALSO

STATED THAT INVOLVED IN THE PLOT WAS

MAJOR

ALHEIDA 3OSQUE.

EDU)

SPINOSA SAID THAT CUBELA HAD RESIGNED TRCH THE ARMED FORCES OF CUBA

AND IS NO! PRACTICINE MEDICINE AT THE CALIXTO GARCIA HOSPITAL IN

KAVANA ANO HAS A NOME ADJACENT TO FIDEL CASTRO-S AT VARADERO

BEACH. ESPINOSA ALSO ADVISED THAT HE WAS IN SPAIN FOR ONLY

', ABOUT THENTYEA

HOURS, WHERE HE CONTACTED OTHER CUBAN EXILES AND LEARNED THA

UHO IS IN CHANCE DE THE CIA OFFICE IN MADRIDI WAS COGNIZANT TO S)

CERTAIN DEGREE CE THIS PLOT, BUT THAI THE CUBANS DID NOT TRUST

BECAUSE THEY CLAIMED HE HAD BESNCOMPROMISED SY A CUBAN GIEL, WHOS

NICKNAME WAS TOTAL, WHO-MAD-BEEN SENT FROM HAVANA-EO?-THE-SPECIFIC

PURPOSE OF CETTING IN CONTACT WITH DECE

THIS INDIVIDUAL IS $U)

POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH

CIA REPRESENTATIVE LAST

NETO SEEIN MADRIDO

ESPINOSA AOVISED THAT THE PLOT CALLS FOR THE ASSASSINAZION OF

FIDEL CASTRO, REUL SASTRO, ERNESTO "CHE" GUEVARA AND RAMIRO VALDES.

THE ASSASSINATION OF THESE INDIVIDUALS IS TO TAKE PLACE IN PUSLIC SO

THAT EVERONE CAN SEE THAT THE LEADERS HAVE BEEN KILLED. THE PLOTTERS

WHOPE TO SEIZE RE RADIO STATION AND CALL FOR AMERICAN. HELP. ESPINOSA

SAID TRAC CUBELA AND OTHERS ASSOCIATED WITH THE PLOT DESIRE TO KNOW

END PAGE I!'O

MAY a 1976

DOJ

SECRET

MN 50955 Doeld: 32282076 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

PAGE THREE

WHETHER OR NOT THE UNITED STATES WOULD HELP IF THIS PLOT WAS SUCCESS

¡FUL AND IF THE UNITED STATES WOULD BE READY AT A MOMENT-S NOTICE TO

¡GIVE THIS ASSISTANCE AS THE PLOTIERS MAY ONLY BE ABLE TO HOLD IHE

•¡COVERNMENT FOR A DAY OR 2UO. ESPINOSA SPICIFICALLY REQUESTED TO

ISE PUT IN CONTACT WITH A REPRESENTATIVD OF CIA, WHO WAS THOROUGHLY

FAMILIAR WITH THE CUBAN SITUATION AND COGNIZANT OF THE INDIVIDUALS

INVOLVED IN THE PLOTO ESPINOSA STATED THAT TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE

AND THAT THIS PLOI WILL COME OFF IN THE NEAR FUTURE AND INDICATED

THAI A STRONG POSSIBILITY WOULD BE JULY TWENTY SIXTH, WHEN ALL THE

LEADERS WOULD BE TOGETHER AT INE ANNUAL JULY TWENTY SIXTH CELEBRATION

!IN

HAVAN.4e

THE BUREAU IS REQUESTED TO FURNISH THIS INFORMATION TO CIA

AND ASCERTAIN WETHER OR NOT CIA DESIRES TO TALK TO ESPINOSA AT THE

EARLIESE POSSIBLE TIME AND AT A PLACE SUITABLE TO THEM. THE BUREAU

IS REQUESTED TO OBTAIN A DEFINITE ANSUER FROM CIA AND FURNISH CIA-

¡ANSUER TO THE NEW YORK OFFICE BY NOON, JUNE THREE SIXTY FIVE SO

THAT ESPINOSA CAN BE ADVISED OF CIA-S DECISION.

SNO PACE TARZE

SECREU

RECEIVED FROM

war 197s

DOJ

AW 50955 DocId: 32282076 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PAGE FOUR

SECRET &

ESPINOSA IS SESIDING AT FOUR ONE FIVE EAST FIFTY SECOND STREET,

NEW YOR" CITY, AND CAN BE CONTACTED AT TELEPHONE NISERS HA ONE-DASH

SEVEN EIGKT SEVEN FIVE OR TE TWO DASH NINE SIX FOUR TUS.

SND

RPP

FBI WASH DC

SECRETI

CO-UP. SULLIVANN

DU

HW 50955

DooId: 32282076

Page

5

---

