# 157-10008-10211

## Page 1

157-10008-10211

16/181

7/28,18

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDÉNTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date:10/07/93

Page: 1

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10008-10211

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R772

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

4112198

SEE ATTALED DOCS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : CIA

TITLE :

LETTER W/ATTACHMENTS

TO : MILLER, WILLIAM, ATTN: MR. BARON

DATE : 08/15/75

PAGES : 53

SUBJECTS :

SANITIZED COPIES OF 21 DOCUMENTS FROM VOL 1 - IV OF THE

AMLASH/1 FILE.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : S

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

BOX 408-79

[R) - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

Doold: 32203719

Page

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Review Staff:

75/2376

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

10211

R.772

408÷79

15 August 1975

SSCI BOX #

408-79

Mr. William G. Miller

Staff Director

Select Committee To Study Governmental

Operations

With

Respect To Intelligence

Activities

Washington, D. C.

Attn :

Mr. Frederick Baron

Dear Mr. Miller:

As you requested, attached are sanitized copies of

21 documents from Volumes I through IV of the AMLASH/1

file.

APPAOWES COD POISESE 1304

Sincerely,

HA HISTO

Calmit skid cold into Gitat

AS

SANITIZED

(c)

24-Mar.94-

Seymour Bolten

Assistant to the Director.

369934

Attachments:

I. HKH-1385,

dtd. 30 Nov 56

2.

1609 (In 39865); dtd

4 Aug 62

4.

2629 (In 47183), dtd 17 Aug 62

5.

Director 30778, dtd 18 Aug 62

6.

Summary Contacts AMWHIP/1 and AMLASH/1, dtd Sep 62

7.

7818, dtd 29 Jan 63 •

8.

Summary Info Persons in State Memo,

atd 3 Sepi 63

9.

0704 (In 15210); dtd 17 Sep 63

10..

(In: 38361), dtd 11 Oct 63

11.

pdtd 15 Oct 63

1217

3399: (In 50855)

dtd 30 Oct 63

13.

Memo. Record AMLASH/1 Mtg,

Oct 63, dtd 13 Nov 63

14.

Contact Plan C/SAS Mtg AMLASH/1 in

undated

15.

Cover for C/SAS for AMLASH/1 Mtg

Scenario for C/SAS Mtg with AMLASH/1 in

I undated

undated

Back Position re AMLASH/1,

Contact Report AMLASH/1, 22 Nov 63 in

dtd 25 Nov 63

AUS 1 3 0915

Director 87980, dtd 18 Dec 63

21.

JMWAVE 8660 (In 75929), dtd 7 Dec 63

CIA

MATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject lo

Criminal Sanclions.

SECRET

Classliled by

007789

Exempt kram. general

NNIS

decleselfication schodule of E.O. 1166376-1978

enemption scheduia SB (1), (2), (3)

Automallcaly dictassillad on

Dale impossible to Determino

---

## Page 3

44130150 1530028

SEGRET

3. AUG 62

DIRECTOR

2 1

3

appa

16

AUG 4 03017 62

14-1

C/TFM 5(6/T5W TEMPO COPY SLOTTED 2215, 3 AUG)

DO/P, ADOP, G/CA 2, C/CI, C/FI 2, COE, CANE 2, S/C 2

• PRIORITY

IN 39365

• PRITY DIR INFO WAVE CITE KELS 16C9

PEF

GAS ISSA (IN 38396)4

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

• DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED (I)(B)

'34 Mar 94

FPOY FALLICCI

1. IN LENSTHY MTGS 1 AND 2 AUC WITH CASE OFIGRAND AMUHIP/1,

HAS AGREED IN PRINCIFLE

IDEA CCLLECTIVE EFSOPT GIVES BEST PESULTS BUT ALPEADY

IN

RODRIGUEZ

20 TWO PRINCIPAL CONCENS SUBJ ARE SOU EXPLOITATION CUSA SCR CAN ENCE

LATIN AMERICA AND GROWING CONSOLILATION CASTRO FISITICN CLOAN. PROTLE TI

" EDUCATION" OF YOUTH AND MASSIVE PROPAGANDA EFFORT SY PEGGLE. MER

FEARS IN EVENT AGGRESSIVE ANTI- PEGIE ACTION SERICUSLY THREATENING TIS

WILL YIFLD EXTRUE COU PORESURE CLIN STATUS MiR.

PERLA ARQUE ORT MUET CHE SOON IE TA ME SUCCESS, ALSO FELUSTANTL

UG 15 18%6

GROWt

Excludad 16.9 10:181:la

trap 1s.. 1: 814

CIA

SEGAF

REPRODUCION BY OTHER THAN INE ISSUING Of tILE DO I HUaNCO.

1..

Copy sir

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFIED NESIAGE

3. LURINS MTGS SUBJ EXIPEMELY INTENSE AND OSVIQUELY UNDER MICH EMOTIC:-

( L STRAIN, APPEARS CAPABLE PASH VICLENT ACTIONS UNDER PROVOCATIC,

FPUSTPATION,

OR TENSE SITUATION. CONSIDER

•YET. CONTEMPLATSO SUICIDE LAST: YEAR. TALKS YENT WELL SUT

OSV IOUS SE

kell

STATE PEPFATEDLY ME HOT. TYPE SIT TISHT BUT PEREPS VICLENT ACTIC". SAID

• HE AGEESO WITH ARGUYENT MUST COLLECT INFO, COORDINATE, ETCO, SAUCE HIS

TYPE ACTION PAYS, BUT F NOT CONVINCED ME SUYS IT. SUBS SHOW STANI! HOT

REING

JOLE TRUST ANYCIE, STATED AWHIP HIS ONLY TRUE CONFIDANT ANNHIP

CASE CFFICER

DID GOD JOS CONVINCING SUES ME SAFELY TALY 1. P2

LE PROCISSO MAX SFOURITY

THIS ADRA..

4. NO DISCUSSIOUS YET AMY FINANCIAL AID OR OTHER COMITIENTS.

CASE OFFICER

5. SUBJ MOST WILLING BE DEBRIEFED ALL FIELDS. A FEELS THIS AND FUTURE

HANDLING PEST DONE BY . U.S, SPANISH SPEAKING C/O UHO INTITATELY

FAMILIAP CUBAN SCENE AND LATIN PERSONALITY. TYPE FELT MOST EFFECTIVE "IT!

SUBJ. IS. IDEN: OLSO RECOMMEND POlYGRAPHt BEFORE USING SUBS IF COMPATIELE

HIS PERSONALITY. FEEL

BEST OPPORTUNITY FOR ARCE.

6. SUBJ PLANS REMAIN

END FESTIVAL FOR COVER SAKE, AIR TRAVEL

ST CC 7

AUG FOR TWO CAYS,, AIP TO PRAGUS FOR TWO DAYS RECOVER LUGGAGE,

AIR PARI ABOUT T4 AUG WHERE WILL SPEND AT LEAST ONE WEEK. THIS

SUBJ ALSO COTEMPLATES

GETTING NAME FROG ATIHILO

7. HAMINE DECIDED RETUP CUBA SURS ANXIOUS SPEND MINI'M TIME SURCES.

AU@NGELDORA WILL ENTOLE OFFICER FEFRECHER COURSE TO RENSH ARMY GENEROIS

REPROOUCTION DY OTHER

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

---

## Page 5

"D ATTRPT DE-ESTAGLISH GO'E FOLLOVING THESE AND COUT CIPCLEGASE OFFICE

•2 AYUHIP PRECEDING SUEJ STOC FOP MANDHOLDING. FEEL ALVISARLE A ALSO

=DECENT ST-CO AIN"CITOP AND CHANNEL CIA IF NEEDED.

"S CONTACT IF. NEEDED EY SUBS, THEN FOLLOW MIM STOO I AUG MAKING PARI

•CITACT PLANS WILL ADVISE.

NOcio

N:95514

9. SUBJ'S PEVIEN CUBAN

FESTiVAL LEADERS AND DELEGATES SHOW &

14-1

OTHER NOTABLES CHERR)IMO LEADERS IN YUNG COKUNISTS

ADE GIPALDO MAZCLA, ALSO ALVAREZ, PRISCO BAPPOSO. SUBJ CONTINUE LIVING

COM ON DELEGATE QUARTERS. HE NOT DELEGATION LEADER AS AGENT

REPOPTED, BUT " SPECIAL DELEGATE" EY FIDEL'S OK. PLOY GIVEN SAS THAT SU

FATIGUED AND SICK, NEEDED PEST, THUS GOT CHANCE TRAVEL TO MEET ANWHIP.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMENT: MAMWHIP/1 FIRST CONTACTED AMCASH/1 1 AUG. OUTCOME NOT YET KNOW.

) FROM

AUG 15 1975

CIA REPRODUCTION OY OTHER

SECRETI

THAN

¡SOUTIVE OFFICE IS PROMIBITCO.

---

## Page 6

:

428

17 ca €2

DIRECTOR

SECRET

2

3

5

5

AUG 17 1942Z E2

TION:

DL-

C/WE 2 (WE de TEW NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED 1540, 17 AUG)

DOP, ADOP, C/ C1, C/51, C/TEHZ, S/C 2

!

- OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 47183

:1N4/183

CPT: DIR INFO WAVE

CITE

12629

PFF

FROM

19-1

1689(16 39865)

DIP 2754 Cour 662687)

C DIP. 23521 Cori

63601)

D DIR 29395 CoUT

64493) 8

Case officer

Grazersies

CIA HAS NỌ OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED < 1(b)

24. Mar 94

en

1.

ALTHOUGH LASH OEVIOUS UNDER CONSIDERAZLE MENTAL STRAIN ME WAS FAIRLY

RELAXED AT BOTH SESSIONS AND ENTERED FREELY ALL DISCUSSIONS.

HE

1

IS SUPER SENSITIVE ABOUT SECURITY AND OWN PERSONAL SAFETY.

HIS SAID

GRACEENED ABOUT GARFLESS TALK BY LUCIA. ECHEVARRIA AND EXPRESSED

THIs!

IF.FINITE WISH MIS GOOD PUT INSECURE FRIEND PONCHO VERONA REMAIN

UNWITTING HIS COOPERATION.

HE APPEARS SINCERE AND HONEST IN HIS

EXPRESSED DESIRE RETURN

REMAIN IN PLACE AND COOPERATE.

HE NEITHER ASHED FOR NOR WAS OFFÉRED ANY FINANCIAL OR OTHER

CONSO EROMS

CUBA

HE HAS

AUG 15 1913

CIA

Lueledad Here autozalle

SECRET

Area Tacing asd

de*tasslestise

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIDITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 7

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECREI

IN 4715

→ PAGE 2

• NE CLATTS

HE. CAM COLLECT INTEL IN ALL FIELDS PUT SIRCHG PTINTS ARE THE

LIVENBITY, CUN ANTI AIRCRATE, CATTALION IN FANTA CLARA AND THE

AIP FOME, HE SAYS HE HASHZFIY TWO PEPSOMAL FRIENDS IN WHOM HE

HAS COPLETE COUFIDENCE BUT CAM CIFCULATE FREELY AND OBTAIN INFO

EPPE MANY SCURCES, INCLUDING TOP GOUT LEADERS... HE FURTHER PLANS,

1.

AS MENTIONED REE A, ENTEP MILITARY CCURSE FOR SENIOR MILITARY

- 3 OFFICERO AT STANZAS AS SOON AS POSSILE CH RETURN EUT DOES NOT

-KNOW DATE NEXT COURSE WILL SEGIN.

CUBAN

HIS C'LY DESEFVATION WAS THAT. NO ONE RPT NO ONE KNOW OF HIS

RESPONCISILITY SEFORE OR AFTER ACT. ALSO EXHIPITED WILLINCIESS

CONCUCT SABOTAGE.

IN THIS CONNECTIC

CUBA

E

COSE OFFICER

HE

APPANGE THIS.

(PARI CAN ARRANGE EXPLOSIVES

INSTRUCTION, WITH FIELD DE: CNSTRATION IN SECLUDED AREA, VIA

TECHNiCH OFFICER WHO WOULD BRING OFFICER FROM - SiTE FOR PURPOSE.?

1. HE SAYS HE CAN DO NOTHING AT THIS STAGE TO BUILD UP CONSPIRACY

WITHIN AMED FORCES OR ELSEWHERE IN

BECAUSE OF TIGHT SECURITY

RECEPTOO FROM REFERRED TO HIS FORMER GUERILLA ACTIVITY, PARTICULARLY

AUS LESMILLAS PROVINCE ON THE SOUTH COAST AND

CTA®

•A.

SECRET

---

## Page 8

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECREI

IN

247183

PAGE 3

• PER INSTPUCTICNS PAPA 3 PEF C

CE

FIO

GO LECAUSE APPADENT FOREIGN SUTVEILLANCE DTECTED IS TO 16 AUS

LASM TATIO! LAS INFORIED LIAISON CIA HAS INTEREST IN LASH

•AS PETENT DEFTO AND AN ESTAT VITY HIM LIAISON OCOPERETIUE

% IN SUMMARY

CUBA

HE ALSO HAS ABILITY AND COURAGE PREPARE VICLINI

ACTION TO ELIMINATE PRESENT LEADEFSHIP AS WELL AS ACTS SABOTAGE.

CONTROL PROELEMS POSSIBLE DUE ISOLATION AND LACK PERSONAL DIRECTION

AND GUIDANCE ONCE HE JUT URNS

DEPPIEFING 17 AUG ON POINTS CUTLINED REF D PRODUCED LITTLE BUT HE

HAD AGREED ACCEPT THESE RERUIREMENTS AS WELL AS ANY OTHERS WE

CHOOSE LEVY AND FULFIL THE O" RETUPN

• 7. NEED FOLLOWING OPIM:

A.

AIG. 15 19

CIA

SECRET

Thi, buit

---

## Page 9

1t and mo PAGE MET

C/S CONMENT:

END OF MESSAGE

*FELT THAT USE CE U.S. DROP FOR COIMO

FROM CUBA NOT WORTH RISK.

RECEIVED FROM

AUG 15 1975

CIA

SECRET

---

## Page 10

Set 62

Sumary of Contacts wish

AKAHIP/1 and AIASH./1

HEISNTI:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED (I) (D)

24 Mar 94

AKHiP arrived In Helsinki on 30 July 1962. He called

according to plan, and after his second call (die to his hotel porter's

abystral understanding of English), Case Offinestablished contact with

AHIP without further difficulty. Te meeting took place in the

restaurant of his hotel,

and later in his room. ie had

did

castest

sta

di

not at this tire located AliSH, so the time was spent briefing ASHIP

on the local scene, and on his conduct with AWASH when the: nei. The

reeting lasted about one and a half hours.

Later the same day we called AWHIP at his hotel to report

no progress in locating AVIASH. Feeling 1t advisable to keep ANSHIP

occupied, de took him out to dinner at Fisketorpet, located in the

suburbs of Helsinkl. The evening lasted until 1200, terminating with a

drink at the roof bar of the Yaakuna. During the six hours, we had an

opportunity to explain carefully to AlNHIP that in order for us to helo

his friend, AliASH must be willing to follow our directions and agree to

certain conditions (already agreed upon by Interested Hqs, parties).

AlWHIP realized: that this was necessary, and agreed with our ideas. However,

he 1s attached to AMASH, and will continue to look upon him in the most

benE BOM

and subjective manner. This being rather far removed from our

AUG 151ÄREhded approach to, and opinion of AMASH. AMHIP will require handllne

Clan a close nature in order that he fully understands and is aware of our

SECRET:

• i.:

---

## Page 11

aired to ACACH for at least seren hours, from aboli

.1000 1n the morning unill apprcinatel: 1'co she same evering. ¿erA:

called us at 1730, he presented us with the fact tiat he had

He would have preferred

to talk longer with AHiT about KaiSh's reactions, but time did ros

perali. ie arranged a dinner for 2100 a "tue ibitaladi", a restaurant

some way from the center of town, and succeeded in obtaining a privase

14-1

dinirg room, a practice not uncoron in this Station recerenced restaurari,

as 1ü 19 often used bi businessmen to hare private dirrers and afterraras,

business discussions.

we arrived at the ihite lady first, arranged for the dinner, and

awaited AHIP and Waist, who arrived at 2110 by taxi. Although Avail?

had suggested to us that the discussions should be merely deroted to

getting acquainted the first evenino,

119-1

As reported in ous cable,

Although obviously

under emotional strain,

ma

He said he

was considering not going back to Cuba, butl

01

He said he was not interested in risking his life for any small undertaking,

but that 1f he could be given a really large part to play, he would use

RECEIVED FROM

imseld and seyeral others In Cuba whom he could rely upon. These he salo

AUB 1 5 1093

CLA

diLi

---

## Page 12

=

• Ircluded two rajors (one of mich nahIP later reported vas a tilitia

cormander in the center part of the istará), tro capiairs, and several

others whon irASi said he could trust,. but whon he rould not rare.

:

He feeis that 1f Fidel 1s elimirated, 1: rould

be much easier to effect a tare-over. (ne listened for the most part, but

at this point tried to explain to ALASt that nen like Rodriguez could easil;

te replaced by Moscon, and that the killira of the Sories imbassador, wouid

have only the briefest effect on the Sovie: control of Cuba.)

His

arguments and plans had

many flaws, but a

5

hed

Tile we were making no

committments or plans, we pointed out to AMLASH that schemes like he envisioned

certainly had their place, but that a lot of coordination, planning, Information-

collection, etc., were necessary prerequisites to ensure the value and success

of such plans. AMLASH sald he agreed with this, but we weren't too sure just

RECElhou Duch idea argument AMIASH was willtne, or waild te willinn, to buy.

200G 15. M

-5-

CIA

SECRET

th.

---

## Page 13

SECRET

1s a matter of record, AVACH stated during, the evenine, that he

had met Algeria's Ben Bella at one time and knows hin more than casuallia

He felt that the man bears strict waiching bi the nest as a measure of

protecting its interests in developients in Alzeria. Nuish thought

Ben Bella was a clever man, devious, and ambitious, and not lo be taken too

Ilterally at his vord.

L For example, at one tire when we were

It was not the act he objected to, but rather merely

the choice of word üsed to describe it.

• Cave

Fron

discussions with AMHIP, this lable of

during a meeting in

to ANNHIP,

Another example, which AMHIP discussed with us, occurred

According

These examples are pointed out

here in order to indicate the degree of pride and sensitivity one find's

In AMLASH, and to noto that?

R:

AUG 15 1815

CIA

SCORE

---

## Page 14

. -9

3 Sep: 63

DC/SAS.

1. The following is a sinary or infomation on the persons

mentioned In the attached

merorandin fron

THE STATE DEPARIMENT

A. JOSE de jANIS SINJALA

1 Castro bodguard who 1s described as a gangster Interested

in financial gain.

B. (Osvaldo) Antonso CAST

Cotomy moes as

and old friend of Poalido CurSLA (more

CASTeLL was. repo-tedly

with the Curan Security Joartent and 13 a cousin of

Raniro Valies, the Incerior Minister.

CAStill, is anti-

reztre and tuatin belleves that he will "fall in line" 1r

there is a successful. coup.

C.

Rolando Questat

A medical doctor at lanuel Fajardo Hospital In Havana.

He's deterzined to kill Castros

D. Marcos

Anestos about 40, who is described as a communist

opportunist.

He was fornerly a liational Police Chief

In Havana.

E.

1L:

Reportedly an undercover agent for Castro and nember of

of the 6-2. As of July 6l he was a Castro bodyguard.

F. Faure CHOMO!

An old friend of Cubela's and Castell's. All fought

together arainst Batista and all were members of the

Directorio Revolucionario (DR), a leftist student

organization.

CHOMCN wag the Cuban Ambassador

to the USSR and is presently the Transportation Minister.

Cubela,

xpresse

kill Fidel Castro

intact sc

anyone would attense such

W/SA, bolteve, thatpes

It koifta be Cubelate Cubela's concern,

however, seema to be one

of assurance and certainly not cowardness.

wants Vers.

agsurance. of timetentntervencion shofath/ba/succeabful

In dispaty

ot wastro and othe

emiapzathta

persortal

Safety M

WS 15.1055

CIA

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

455 TAEO (X)

zy mar.

1L 50837 DocId: 2203719 Page

---

## Page 15

SES T

The presence of two bodyguards in thia group incacates the :

accesgeb1l153 to chair tarret, a significant faccor in a plot of this

type, especially since Castro is so cosely guarded.

so Flarily, It is not extraorinary that JivAus should direct his

setter to a vuit rember, nanily Zaraca. In hisPeaks with ese

peraited to return to Cuba, If Cubela is successfül In' a coup arainst

Castro. Cubela realizes, of-course, that Ray 1s not a politician nor

& g001 orcanizer, but as an erpineer, Ray has the qualities that would

be extremely useful in Cubats reconstruction.

5. If you desire to have this info zation sent to STAr DEpT.

we would lire to trosuce a few questions on Zarraga; vir his knowledge of

several Individuals mentioned, on whon there is obscure information.

11

Addendus:

08

steenagibeena cutout betwcen: cubela and

LiKe AMWHIP.

ARTIE: is clos

the bellef that

the group is tightly knit.

(ANNIP).

Leanine that

Honia supports

I have learned too, that the infomation we have receited

regarding a possible assassination of Fidel Castro has,

n nearly every case, originated from a nember of thi

roup, which again indicates that this group is unite

and they each understand that one miscue will destroy

all of them.

RECED FROM

AJG. 15. 1915

GIA

SEGRET

Ming tantal i nd.i

---

## Page 16

482423

COpy Loriginal copy cannot be reproduced)

DIRECTOR / 4-6

TO

FROM:

ACTION

INFO

C/WE 2

DDP, ADDP, C/CA 2, C/CA/O 2, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/SAS 5, RF, VR (SUSPENSE DO/

SECRET 301530Z

INFO DIR

19-6

19 - b

:30 OCT 63 IN 50855

399

REF

386 (NOT SENT PARI)

1.

AND ANGEL QUEVEDO

AN OFFICIAL OF THE CUBAN STUDENTS ORGANIZATION, FEU,

THE DIFFI-

CULTIES OCCURRED AFTER BOTH HAD COMPLETED A SENIOR ARMY: TRAINING

COURSE AND INSTEAD OF: RECEIVING. THE RANK OF COMMANDER WHICH THEY..

HAD HELD DURING THE REVOLUTION, THEY WERE TOLD BY RAUL CASTRO

THEY WERE BEING DEMOTED TO CAPT. BOTH THEN RESIGNED.

2. ACCUT ALSO REPORTS THAT CARLOS FRANQUI HAS BEEN FIRED FROM HIS:

POSITION AS EDITOR OFEREVOLUCION. THE NEWS WAS PASSED TO

KFRANUU!'S DEPUTY SARUSKY WHO IS PRESENTLY OSLO BY CUBAN PRESS

ATTACHE LOND PABLO ARMANDO FERNANDEZ. AST' STATES: THAT HE HAS

HEARD FROM OTHER SOURCES THAT FRANQUI HAS BEEN A PROBLEM TO

CASTRO. FOR SOME TIMERAND THE LATTER

HAS OFTEN COMPLAINED TO.

RE CESAR ESCARAMA, CUBAN PROPAGANDA CHIEF THAT FRANQUT WAS TOO

AUG 15 1913

CIA

CIAHAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

•SECRET

AS SANITIZED: CA 6)

24 Mar. 2if

en SECRET

COPA:

---

## Page 17

UnBI

•C. 0: P

LASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 50855

_PAGE 20

INDEPENDENT IN HIS WRITING, THINKING. ESCALANTE USUALLY

DISMISSED COMPLAINTS BY SAYING HE HAD NO CONTROL OVER FRANQUI.

3. NO INDEX.

SECRET

R° /ED FROM

ÄUG 15 1003

CIA

SECRET

---

