157-10011-10052

Date:09/30/93
Page:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

© IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : .SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10052

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:

TITLE :
TRANSCRIPT OF HEARING

DATE : 06/06/75
PAGES : 86

SUBJECTS :
TRANSCRIPT OF HEARING; WITNESS, MCCONE, JOHN A.
ADDENDUM: MEMORANDUM ON THE ORGANIZATION OF THE GOVERNMENT
FOR THE CONDUCT OF FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :
SSCI Box 252, Folder 16

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId:32203820 Page 1


Phono (Area O...

wanp @.

t, 5... Washington, 0.C. 20003

HW 50955

12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
2l
22
23
24)

25

Docla:

dn2

TOP SECRET -

Mr. McCone. What did you say, sir?

The Chairman. Where did the actual Ses esce of the pur-
chased equipment take place?

War it in London?

Mr. McCone. I am not sure whether it was in London or
it was in some European port of embarkation, Rotterdam or Ham-
burg or something.

Mr. Schwarz. Was there in that connection also an

activity to sabotage the shipment of [_ BBBeas

/ to Cuba?

Mr. McCone. It seems to me I recall some such thing,

whether it was[_____} Spare Parts or others, there was

Mr. Schwarz. Were there any efforts undertaken to blow
up ships?

Mr. McCone. ‘There was a great deal of talk about it.

ever any explosive planted in a ship.

Now, I may be wrong on that, but I do not recall it.

committee approve the blowing up of certain ships?
Mr. McCone. I would have to go to the record to answer
that question.

Mr. Schwarz. Do you recall whether the plans included

TOP SECRET

32203820 Page 2

some operation in connection with material frog to Cuba.

i
There were some rather exotic plans. But I don't think there was
i

Mr. Schwarz. Whether or not anything ever come off, did the

blowing up the ships in transit between Cuba and other countries?
