# 157-10005-10204

## Page 1

157-10005-102041

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10005-10204

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ROCK

FROM : CARGILL,

MASON

TO : THE FILE

TITLE :

MEMORANDUM

DATE: 05/15/75

PAGES : 7

SUBJECTS :

RE :PERSONS IDENTIFIED IN '67 IN IG REPORT RE: CASTRO ASSASS.

CUBANS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENI SIATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/01/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

BOX 436-7

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

DooId: 32202394

Page 1

Date: 10/01/93

Page: 1

Bx32

---

## Page 2

436-7

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

Washington, DC 20500

May 15, 1975

MEMORANDUM

SSCI BOX i

436-07

C-N11-10 10204

To :

File

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

From:

Mason Cargill

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

Subject:

PERSONS IDENTIFIED IN 1967 IN INSPECTOR GENERAL

675/3/94

REPORT WHO MIGHT BE INTERVIEWED ON THE SUBJECT

OF CASTRO ASSASSINATION PLANS

3 poge

12:00 sat

1. James P. O'Connell. First mentioned on page

16 of the report, O'Connell was named as Colonel Edwards'

case officer for

the Phase I operation involving Maheu and

Roselli. At the time, O'Connell was Chief, Operational

Support Division, Office of Security.

2.

DI. Edward Gunn.

DI. Gunn was Chief, Operations

Division, Office of Medical Services.

He assisted

Shef Edwards

with various technical aspects of the Castro plots.

3. Ray Treichles Trenchler, an employee of the

1(A)

Technical Services Division, prepared poisoned cigars during

Phase I.

4. Cornelius Roosevelt. He was Chief of the

Technical Services Division during Phase 1.

The requests for

assistance from Edwards to Gunn and treichter) were passed through

Roosevelt.

5. A. B. Esterline.

He was Chief of the WH/4

Division during Phase I and was listed on page 34 of the

report as having been witting of the Phase I plan.

6. Sidney Gottlieb. He was Special Assistant to

Cult | the DD/P during Phase I and was listed as having been witting

of the Castro operation. The report states that in 1967, he

denied knowing of the operation.

7.

Robert Bannerman.

He was Deputy Director of

Security during this era and was listed as having been witting

of the Castro plan.

RMC : clb

(2)

PROPERTY OF

0190 THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE

HW 50955 DocId:32202394 Page 2

---

## Page 3

talked

- 2 -

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUCE OFFICE

8. J.C. King. He was Chief of the WH Division

and was listed in the IG report as being witting of the plan.

In 1967 he denied knowledge of it.

9. Justin O'Donnell. Mentioned on page 38 of the

report, O'Donnell was to have been in charge of the assassi-

nation of Patrice Lamumba by agent QJWIN; however, he surveyed

the scene and decided he wanted no part in an assassination

attempt.

1(A)

10. 1.

Bruce Cheever.

He was Harvey's deputy in 1962

and was listed on page 55 as having been witting of Phase II.

Tist, fiel

11. Lawrence Houston. First mentioned on page 62

of the report. He was requested by Colonel Edwards to call

on an Assistant Attorney General to explain the bugging incident

in Las Vegas.

It appears from the IG report that Houston was

witting of aspects of Phase I which led up to the wiretapping

incident.

On May 7, 1962, Houston, along with Sheffield

Edwards, briefed Attorney General Kennedy on the Phase I

operation.

12. General Carter. Carter was DDCI under John

McCone.

In April, 1962, he was briefed by Houston on Phase I.

He said he "understood"

the situation and "in due time might

brief the Director, Mr. McCone."

However, the 1967 report

states, "There is no indication that General Carter was

further briefed

on the full details of the assassination plot

against Castro."

13.

Robert A. Maheu. Maheu, of course, was the

private investigator who served as the Agency's contact with

Roselli during Phase I.

14. Edward P. Morgan. He was Maheu's attorney in

1966 when the CIA intervened with the Long committee. He

excused Maheu as a witness in its investigation of invasions

of privacy.

According to the IG report, Maheu indicated that

he might brief his attorney Morgan fully about his past acti-

vities so that Morgan would be able to decide how best to

represent him.

declares

15. Desmond Fitzgerald. Fitzgerald became head of

the Cuban task force in January, 1963. Mentioned on page 75

of the report, Fitzgerald said that the skin diving 'suit plan

began while he was head of the Cuban task force.

16. Samuel Halpern. The IG report, page 75, states

that Halpern said the skin diving suit plan had begun under

William Harvey and that he, Halpern, had briefed Fitzgerald

on it.

01905

HW 50955 DocId:32202394 Page 3

---

## Page 4

4

. - 3 -

17. George MoManus. He was a special assistant to

DD/P Helms in 1963.

He had been told of the skin diving suit

plan by Halpern and later mentioned it to Mr. Helms.

Nestor, Sanchez. According to page 80 of the

report, Sanchez was the case officer of Rolando Cubela during

the AMLASH project.

1(A)

In dam wainwsight He was a case officer from

headquarters who

on several occasions met with Cubela at

European locations.

He is first mentioned on page 83.

20. Farle williamson

• According to the report,

Tepeding in Paris.

21. Red Stents According to the report, page 88

he was another CIA officer who had met with Cubelagand Tepedino.

Robert Owen.

pazis station in 1964.

He was

a CIA officeraot the

He participated in meetings with

Cubela. He is mentioned on page 100 of the report.

23. Juan Orta. First mentioned on page 25 of the

report, he was said to be the "inside" man who was going to

plant pills in Castro's food. Apparently, the Agency, in 1967,

felt that Orta was either in the U.S. or otherwise available.

In speculating as to whether others could reconstruct the

details of this report, it stated, on page 123, "Orta can .

confirm the pill element of Phase I."

24.

Tony Varona (DI. Manuel Antonio De Verona

de Loredo).

Varona was used as a funnel for pills in Phase I.

He was a prominent member of the Cuban exile community. Varona

was also mentioned, on page 132, as a possible source of

information about Phase I.

THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE

01906

HH 50955 DocId: 32202394 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Robert I Bannerman

Back

jild

Sante Roon Beach, 7la, 32459

904-

36.65

Gomes

B. O'conell

retd

33

Mc Kean,

va

22101

May is - 9pM

Interviewes

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

015/3/94

4 poges

TAL GIDE

01907

NW 50955

DocId: 32202394

Page

5

---

## Page 6

ter

current employee

×7457

Room 3030 head quartitor

- Mon, 19 May, 8:15AM

1 Latin limerican Cvision

1(A)

current employee Near East Devisin DDO

x6151

Roon 6018 headquaities

And bottlist

retrial in Luke, Zambie

Dost Office Bon 2379

India

Mr. Edward Haran

riterial

Hitse Hend, South Crolina 21925

viewed

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE

01908

30953

DooId: 32202394

Page

6

---

## Page 7

Dr. Quen Cugustin De Ya Carida

Osta y Cirdora

terminated CIA Jure 1967

as of 1967

Miami Beach, 712

De Manuel Cintonio de Zarona

y Laredo

terminated C14 Jan.196)

302

NYC, NY 10036

Anthony Unione

PROPERTY .OF

THE WHITE HOUSE UFFICE

01909

NH 50955

DooId: 32202394

Page

---

## Page 8

Justin O'Connell

retired frome Cagenay in 1961.

they have me official record on his

they get the wif. for plane

1L03

they t of ent be the

yes, he is.

THE White House witt

01910

HW

50955

DocId: 32202394 Page 8

---

