157-10004-10187|

Date:08/06/94

Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
ee) IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
‘ : AGENCY : SSCIA
; RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10187
RECORDS SERIES :
CABLE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : INCOMING #6788 DIR 85661
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : CIA
7 FROM :
TO : MEXICO CITY
TITLE :
INSTRUCTIONS RE: GILBERTO ALVARADO
DATE : 11/28/63 :
PAGES : 1
;
: SUBJECTS : |
ALVARADO, GILBERTO
MEXICO CITY
INSTRUCTIONS NOT TO TURN ALVARADO OVER TO MEXICANS
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT !
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, 1C, DONOR REST., REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/94
_ OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :
OBJECTION TO.
ape [GATION ANDIOB
RELEASE OF THIS

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED |

\NW 50955 DocId:32202076 Page 1


FORM 13203
tes?

=, 29
DISTR: oe
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE i
ACTION . DATE: 2SNOVSS
INFO: : FILE:

TNTTIALS INCOMING NUMBER

$788

DEFERRED PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL, | INITIALS

IMMEDIATE Z .
TO aie INFO Cire
INNEDIATE NEXI IMMEDIATE GE

aE LOR, J

REF NEXT 7113.

(ERFIacis cin s7z5)

1. ue NOT TURN ALVARADO OVER TO THE MEXICANS. ‘YE HAVE OFFICIALL' \
ASKED CODEN See FOR THEIR POSITION ON THIS MOVE, AND PENDING. ODRNUGIS Ss

ROUTINE

3]
a!

ANSWER AND OUR FINAL CONSIDERATION, ALVARADO SHOULD NOT BE SURFACED
TO THE MEXICANS OR TURNED OVER TO. THEM.

2. ADVISE US IF ODENYY SIN NEXI ATTEMPTS TO GET YOU TO ACT ONE Q
VAY OR THE OTHER ON THE QUESTION OF TURNING ALVARADO OVER TO THE .
MEXICANS » : NX

3- PLS NOTE THE COMPLICATING FACTOR THAT ALVARADO MAY RE A
‘MIC ACENT Td. Eaeyeis ADVISE ITS VIEWS. VE AGREE GER 3 £
BRisvoup GO NEXT AND BE REACHAPLE AT NIC EMRASSY TO BE aT HEXT DISPOSAL.

ke FOR NEXIS NOTE 9 _ MAM LARRY XKEENA
ny ECTALL F a : 2

HAS NO OBJECTION TO
CECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

iain ae : RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
REPRE

HW 50955 DocId:32202076 Page 2
