157-10004-10137

: Date:07/01/94
t Page:1
@ doaee JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10137

RECORDS SERIES :
MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : DOD
FROM : LANSDALE, EDWARD
TO : HARVEY & HURWITCH

TITLE :
ALTERNATE COURSE B OF OPERATION MONGOOSE

DATE : 08/13/62
PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS :
PERATION MONGOOSE
DOD

HARVEY, WILLIAM
ALTERNATE COURSE B
CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
450-4

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId:32202026 Page 1


fe) gic a?
ton"

Ataton b Joh

‘Biographical
1940-47
; 1947

1948 Deputy Assig
Operationg

1952
| 1959

1960

August 16 DR. EDWARD GUNN (Office of Medical Services)
receives box of Cuban cigars to be treated with

Aya B/SS Ells Ljuat be as 2a beable Cydreole Ontaed.

i
t

Late January EDWARDS and O'CONNELL ask for development of
Tapprox.) POISON PILLS, (24) —s
een!

February BISSELL (ppp) asks HARVEY to asbabes o Sildeabaidabeldeellldy
. ‘tinder project E. Harvey's
oe saying that Bissell said he
had been “Seles urges by biteianllanas ” to
establish Buch a capability. (37) Harvey is
briefed, probably by both BISSELL and EDWARDS, on
the Phase I assassination plot run by Sheffield
EDWARDS and James O'CONNELL (Office of Security)
telted w howe @ @afeb,liyy, which involved criminal syndicate connections. (37)

Prove © warvey uses agent QJWIN (recruited earlier by

LLo ) ARNOUORSTEVERRfor use in an assassination operation
Lomum A ¢ TRU? ‘against GUMUMBA) as the principle asset for ZRRIFLE.
as OXa mp les of tan (38)

Edwards has the POISON PILLS tested. (25)

* Page references in parentheses are from the 1967 Report of the Inspector
General of the CIA.

Tee ; i: Cows at Juccesive weekly func hoong

BW soos Phd tpGa8 t, Beg oz hai cthendled by BME, 1 8 on) 4,

