157-10004-10189)

Date:08/06/94
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

@ IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10189

RECORDS SERIES :
CABLE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : INCOMING # 6795

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO : MEXICO CITY

TITLE :
GILBERTO ALVARADO

DATE : 11/28/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :
‘ALVARADO, GILBERTO

FABRICATION OF STORY

INTERROGATION OF ALVARADO

DURAN, SILVIA
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, 1C, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

. RW 50955 Docld:32202078 Page 1


DISTR: Sis

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION: i fei DATE: ne poe ge
if
INFO: wpe i
& fae
AY
: ] | RIORITY | cy |
© DEFERRED PRE ive i
: WatONaL TSE a
‘ cca OPERATIONAL : eat yteries - .
: ROUTINE IMMEDIATE I 1 2601507 S795 ¢

4
°
z
5
ro)

PRIORITY NEXI PRIORITY Binet s—

- 4
Pe 7 BP - &. is)
ME FACE OF MOUNTING EVIDENCE THsT ALVARADO IS FABRICATING HIS
P. BAS.

STORY OF SEEING OSWALD TAKE MONEY IN THE cum. Vou para
up WITH

WE Find It IWCREDIVLE THAT INE CUBANRS COULD
BRIEF? SN ASSASSIN IN FRONT OF A NIC INTERLOPER. WE THIN IT

RDPA
POSSIBLE OR EVEN LIKELY THAT HE HAS BEEN I! AND OUT OF THE CUBAN
AS A-NIC AGENT TRYING TO INFILTRATE CURA AND HAS PICKED UP THE ©:
FACES THERE IN SO DOING. ALL J 11D SOUT OSYALD: HE COULD
GOTTEN FROM THE NEWSPAPERS, R CERTAIN INCORRECT ITEMS SUCH AS

‘HIS STATEMENT THAT OSWALD WOR: 7

: 20 THE FACT THAT ALVARADO IS A CAL!, NICE, AND INTELLIGENT Younc MAN
DOES NOT MEAN HE IS NOT A FAPRICATOR. FYI WE AND OTHER AGENCIES ARE
BEING FLODDED BY FABRICATIONS ON THE GPFLOOR CASE FROM SEVERAL CONTINENTS
SOME ORIGINATING WITH PEOPLE ON TRE FRINGES OF THE INTELLIGENCE BUSINESS.
SUCH FABRICATIONS ARE NOT USUALLY DONE FOR NONEY, BUT OUT OF SICKLY
FANCY AND A DESIRE TO CZT INTO THE INTELLIGENCE CANE.

3e WE DO NOT THINK IT A REY COINCIDENCE THAT BOTH DORTICOS AID
SZVARADO TALK ABOUT MONEY PAID LD. FOR ONE THING, PAY FOR AM
ASSASSIN IS A FACTOR WHICH IMMEDTATEL ES IN THE MIND-OF EXPERT AwD
LAYMAN ALIKE. SECONDLY, DORTICOS MAY HAVE HEARD THROUCH SOME RUSST?

OR CUBAN SOURCE IN THE MEXICAN GOVERNMENT THAT DURAN WAS ASKED ©

THE CUBANS PAID OSWALD FOR THE ALLEGED ASSIGUMENT.

CHILE WE DO NOT INSIST THAT ALVARADO'S STORY IS BEYOND ALL BELIEF

THAT MEXI PLACE IT DO UNDER THE MOST SEARCH

HIS INTERROGATO! -

<BACK THROUGH THE THR

OF HIS
Nc Ss

S$ OF THE S

TTITUDE, ST E
OUS RECOGNIT!

CT MUST RE
MOTIVATION,
CIOUS HOPES OF

MHOT RE

OP.

EOMIC FEMUR, FUT 9: a
: : | ccc | APPROVED FOR RELEA Eig
BE /1600-07 | a4 aes GIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROG:

— ge Zig SANITEED
O64

i \ By
HW 50955 DocId:32202078 Page 2 OXee

aly

‘$

d

