# 157-10014-10159

## Page 1

157-10014-10159

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

7/7/2015

AGENCY:

SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER :

157-10014-10159

RECORD SERIES :

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

07-M-64

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA

FROM: KELLEY, ROBERT

TO :

ELDER, WALTER

TITLE:

DATE: 07/14/1975

PAGES:

25

SUBJECTS:

BISSELL, RICHARD

KENNEDY, ROBERT

HELM, RICHARD

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Declassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/22/2000

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: CCBOX 437

v9.1

NH

50955

DocId: 32423547

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date

Page

08/07/95

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS

SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

SSCIA

157-10014-10159

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

SSCIA

KELLEY, ROBERT

ELDER, WALTER

TITLE

DATE

: 07/14/75

PAGES

25

SUBJECTS : HELMS RICHARD

KENNEDY, ROBERT

BISSELL, RICHARD

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

01/08/99

COMMENTS

:

CCBOX 437

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

50955

DooId: 32423547

Page 2

---

## Page 3

R 499

R499

HIS FILE CONTAINS SPECIALLY DESIGNATED INTELLIGENCE MATERIAL

(COMPARTMENTED)

mation

in this file is to be read only. It is not to be extracted,

id, paraphrased, or discussed with another person without specific

li you nave

a question, or a requirement, speak to the Control

who save you access to this ille.

ME OF PERSON HAVING ACCESST FROM

3:300 2.3010/19

R 449

2306 06p.

ISSUED BY

STICURED BY I TIME

Box 437

NY 50955 DocId: 32423547 Page 3

---

## Page 4

July 14, 1975

Mr. Walter Elder

Central Intelligence Agency

leadquarters

Langley, Virgini:

Dear Mr. Elder:

This will confirm the request I nade on behalf of Mir. Schwarz in

our telephone conversation this morning for copies of any reference

in appointment books, dally diaries, calendars, logs or similar records

relating to the following meetings, and any memoranda of conversation

or other record thereof:

1. Meetings between Richard Helms and Robert Kennedy in the periods

a)

November 30, 1961 - November 1, 1962

b) August 1, 1963 - Novenber 22, 1963

2.

Richard lielms' meeting with President Johnson regarding the three

CIA Inspector General Reports

3.

Meetings between Richard Bissell, McGeorge Bundy and W. W. Roston

in the period November 5, 1960 through February 15, 1961.

In addition, please provide a copy of any reference in appointment

books, daily diaries, calendars or logs which relate to meetings among

Messrs. Dulles, Bissell,

Edwards or Gabedd in the period August 1, 1960

through November 30, 1960, and any memoranda of conversation or other

record of such meetings.

As we discussed, this information is needed for the hearings that

are scheduled for Thursday, July 17. We will appreciate your efforts

to supply this information before that date.

Sincerely,

Robert Kelley

Via Courier

RK/ cm

NH 50955 DocId:32423547

Page 1

---

## Page 5

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

1444

FAOS

35/- 4016

Review Staff:

75/1616

16 July 1975

Mr: Frederick A. 0. Schwarz, Jr.

Chief Counsel

Select Committee To Study Governmental

Operations With

Respect To. Intelligence

Activities

Room G-308

Dirksen Senate Office Building

Washington, D. C. 20510

Dear Mr. Schwarz:

In response to your request of 14 July 1975

about records of meetings by Agency officials (and

confirming my telephone conversation with Mr. Kelley),

the attached information is forwarded for your infor-

mation.

Sincerely,

Wast Elcer

Walter Elder

Assistant to the Director

Attachment:

As stated

REGLI.:

206 1G 1975

CIA

NATIONAL SECURITY IN ORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject 10

Criminal Sanctions.

SIGNET

doclasstiction schedule or ED testine.

Classifled by_007789

Exempi from goneral

exemption schedule 53 (1), (3). (3)

TVINN

Autumnatically declassilind en

1776-1976

Dato Impossible to Determino

NH 50955 DocId: 32423547 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

R499

16 July 1975

SUBJECT: Mr. Schwarz's 14 July 1975 request for information concerning

meetings between Mr. Helms and Robert Kennedy, between Mr.

Bissell and Mr.

Bundy or dir. Rostow, and a four-party meeting

involving Mr. Dulies, Mr. Cabell, Mr. Bissell, and Mr. Edwards.

RESPONSE:

1. Concerning meetings involving Mr. Helms and Robert Kennedy

during the periods 30 November 1961 - 1 November 1962 and August 1963

22 November 1963:

Our review for the above dates of memorandums of records written

by Mr. Helms during the period 1951-1964 yield the following records

which are attached at Tab 1:

Date

Subject

Comment

23 January 1962

"Briefing of the

Attorney General"

30 January 1962

16 October 1962

16 October 1962

22 August 1963

) FROM

* 16 1975

CIA

CIA Officer

"Mr. Hoover and

AELADLE"'

"MONGOOSE Meeting

with the Attorney

General"

"The Dunlop Case"

SECRET

Memo on briefing of Attorney

General by Mr. Helms and three

other Agency officials prior to

a round-the-world trip taken

by the Attorney General.

Memo of conversation between

Mr. Helms and Attorney General.

Meno of Conversation between

Mr. Helms and Mr. Papich in

which Mr. Helms refers to an

undated discussion with the

Attorney General.

Memo on a meeting in Attorney

General's office attended by

the Attorney General, General

Lansdale, Col. Patchell, General

Johnson, Robert Hurwitch, Hewson

Ryan, and Mr. Helms.

Memo on briefing of Attorney

General on Dunlop case by Mr.

Helms.

CLASCUFTED 8T

018186

EXCAPT FROM GENECAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHECURE DE F. O. 11652. EXERATION CATEGORY:

er !:! fis le are or moro)

RN 50955 DocId: 32423547 Page

6

---

## Page 7

StUNtl

28 August 1963

29 August 1963

"Meeting of the NSC

Memo on meeting attended by

Executive Committee re President, the Vice President:

South Vietnam-6:15 p.m., representatives of State,

28 August 1963"

Defense, Treasury, Justice

(Robert Kennedy), USIA, White

House Staff, and CIA (Carter

and Helms).

Memo on meeting attended as .

above.

'Meeting of the NSC

Executive Committee

re South Vietnam -

Noon, 29 August 1963"

"White House Meeting

on Vietnam-4:20 p.m.,

29 October 1963''

29 October 1963

Memo on meeting attended by

President, Vice President.

Attorney General, and parti-

pants from State, Defense,

White House Staff, and CIA

Messrs. McCone, Helms, and

Colby).

20 November 1963

"Cuban Arms Cache

in Venezuela

Memo on separate briefings

of the Attorney General and

the President on Cuban Arms

Cache by Mr. Helms and the

former Deputy Chief of Station

in Caracas.

2. Concerning a four-party meeting involving Messrs. Dulles, Cabell,

Bissell, and Edwards at some time during the period 1 August 1960 - 30

November 1960:

Mr. Dulles' calendar bears an entry for 25 November 196# showing that

his schedule for that day included a budget meeting with the DDCI (then

Gen. Cabell) the DDP (then Mr. Bissell) and the DDS (then Col. White).

(See Tab 2). There is no entry for a four-party meeting involving Edwards

during that period.

3. Concerning any meetings between Mr. Bissell and Mr. Bundy or

Mr. Rostow between 5 November 1960 - 15 February 1961:

We have been unable to locate any record of such meetings.

Revers) FROM

•J. 18 1975

CIA

2

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32423547 Page 7

---

## Page 8

R2.:

FROM

•* 18 1915

GIA

HW 50955

DooId: 32423547

Page

---

## Page 9

45.x

SECRET:

Enziani Fora tua liscotor al Contral Istalligenco

BILIECI!

alagung of tha litornar Beneral

Dordito 1i proparica 1e Mo tripo lEo Finicould corerca depas

Gad Inconasta, iro Galtahaali pcce en iran, and tro Faraiy

20 PUTIENE tO YOUr FORUOSE, I Eied thI ittareT CencIal 1E

be bad tes In opportirity to distres titi tuo socratary di StEre

salsed tie rettor dod tino it li coan coetica that to sicule

dietcha ci air itactor Chicis inI

Datosa, bong iera

Ilarie, Isbera, loce, berlin, and Da Ergoo la sodo tet te

tata dis spcciai lecito, lão deon seigentales, 1o 1131

Iros the couranto contined abroad.

2a5 Interest In coeing this paper.

lie indicatod a pertica-

Réciord licIn

ChIE? dI Operations, IE/P

cer D2/2

18 Rieles/ocd - 23 Jan 62

Distribution: Orig & 1 - addressee

1 - DD/E chrono

1 - DD/P subject

SEGRET

NH 50955

DocId: 32423547 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

30 Jannary 1962

FE CRANDIT! FOR THE RECORD

SUE: 30T: CIA Officer

alor? ine lines set forth

He asked

tas mula seete to aidekat he would not be tit

to travel if released. I told him that this would not be

the cases

that what we wanted to do was to make him 100k

peaced rather than be the healthy, robust-icoking man he

The ittorney General inquired in ve thought this

•ailiác sore rood.

I replied that high Indonesian

autorities have becone very concommed than the ulcers

f'cr iospitalization in a cooler climate.

I sumarized by

sara that i coulla not see now it coula do any narm ano

maine do some scod.

at this point, the attorney Ceneral

agreed that we should go ahead.

Bich do tens

Chief of operations, DD/P

REUS

*418 195

SEGRET

NH 50955

DodId: 32423547

Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

16 October 1952

SENOLIDES 303 TE 220030

2.

XI. Saa Panich, 13I lladoon represertatite, cana to see ne

0t. 5:15?.10, 15 00i00E-

Ze rerared in tie telepione cail unico

tha Diracior dad placed to it. i. ida Looter bat vica mis vicen

by 35. Loisont in tir. icoverig ausecca iron too city.

i. ?anich

said tini the Director's request tat in torer see laidur bad been

tacen so sish bia spon nis rotara. ai. Iapica suned thas it, acoveris

anstar sag ito.

2. In excolanation, ir. oich indiened that lI. Icorer falt

that 1am3i3 mated to see ai siroit on to basis oi ego and ta=

tcera 1a3 i0 useill irioration t cariTa isI SUch in Encomier I

Auto, ta cocarisod to se that one scoula pizy sy io too ego of an

tritarol min as indul. This rajoircer sispiy caused i. papisa

to 3at?9.

3. Mr. Panics ended this part of our reeting by saying that

agents, crininals, or outer connorersial ligures. i toil to rapicn

that in. Ecover's rarisal cisarly bad implicitions as iar 25 dilati's

cooperation vica ice 1BI is concerod li. Pagich said la Isali=od

this.

Richard Being

Deputy Director (Plans)

185

Distribution:

Original - FI. Elder far the ICI

.10e - Chiar, CI

I cc - Chiai, s? it

00 - ID/P

SECRET

HW 50955

DocId: 32423547 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SEGRET

16 Octodes 1962

SEBUBUT: NDICOOS3 Weeting with tie Attorney Gereral

1. 1t 2:30 this aêciroon, tbe istorsey Ceneral conteced in 11a

office 1 noeting an Uferstion JUROUSS orsisatag ai icreral imocalo

and Colorel Fateball, uneral joinson oi the joint Stari, labert

Baratica of Stato (rica id iaãtin ino ins tradie to atiera), l'esson

Ryan oi Esãd, and the Incasized.

2a the itiatrey deneral orened the reating by coressing she

"gereTTi dissabisiaccion oi the Frestiont nach üperation NiuCSE.

Le coinued out toat tice uperation had been tier iny 10= aj00r, tat

une regulas ser deooaragina, thas tiere baù beer. no seis of sabotage,

and tras even üne me imich lud boes attenoted lad Iilso tnlos. Se

Endlcased trat there had been soulocale introyaient inring, i28 jear

In tine enliseston si intallisão bas tost utier ditives saà faitea

to interca simitiontly use sonso of eteria in cuba. lia soors

o te reesiy seetias oi im pitimiale on this paroi md ara

roseà sse mall accomplismors caspite ice fact tiat secretarios

Busá and :crar, leneral Estior, isteorre landy, and Le personally

bad all bour changed by the imesdiens mim libaing a Dolution to

tracod ebe bistory si Gereral Lanscala's parocal appoinent by the

¡mestemi 3 Jear ago, l'he ittorney teneral tren stated thas in viez

of this Inois o1 arogass, la tas goirz to site operation ipituE

BOrE pErsonal asication.

in orcer to do this, be vill lold 1 zoot

Ing avery manina aù 0930 riùn ina torloss erarational respresenta-

tires ica ine tarlous ageneses (Lansdale, Harrey, Eurdich, ijan,

and (eneral vornacs) .

3- The ittorney Gereral spole iazorably of the sabotago pager

Vita tce acia 01 530053g9.

Lio iben asised for i caments, i sisted that de vere precared

to set en 51uà the zer iction poseren and t'ai te barls coscato it

23a9s917el7• l soirie out, iveyer, tiat ico objectivo of iveratio

1pra53 could bare to de ceteruizod at sone poini since tica subare

- 3 3 1975

929T

SEGTETI

HN 50955 Doc1d: 32423547 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

• 2.

Tea EDoa te Lave to stri vere sedidaz a rason for Iisting their

Linsa in tuese operations. i retailed Iy carrersation irits tbo

Joung taty tra the 1a3 sio sinted ou trai thoy vers villing to

Lorinz sa acuica maica souid contriburo to ice ilieranion oi tredo

contury, ination :ay d1 33ying was lie initod Siauto, jertaça in

canjecito ilia oler iatia sounties, sould 22i1 üben 0u5 19i31-

tarsey General'a rojoindes tas a ples jar son jicas 0i tiras teat

corld ba iore arringo via. In Fassing, la laco alarece to vie

chanza in amospiare in io inived s'mies torerment dring ice last

trenty-our tours, and asicod sona cuestions zoout tica perceriare ai

Dicant anon sa toorgus could ilgai sar the regine ii tia soutry vera

InTededo

5. To reating concinded idia the raiation by the litorney

teneral di nis sesira to cald a seetng dan coy, berinaing toporcos.

Eo godi tiat inese isetings sigão later de coragod to etery osser cy

Then and ¿2 s0 linis à caily gatiogaliar is nos secessary. lbe

31abard Beles

Docuty Director (Flans)

Distribation:

051zisal - 15. Elder for tho iCI and DICI

1 co - Chier, TI»

I CO - DDY?

SECRET

NH 50955

DocId: 32423547

Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET

22 August 1953

MENORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: The Dunlop case

Pursuant to the Director's instructions, I briefed the

Attorey General at 10:15 A. M. today on the Dunlop case at

NSA. The information I had as of that time consisted only

of the following: that the man had been under suspicion,

that be had comitted suicide some weeks ago, and that on

21 August his widow had turned over to CIC of the Army cartain

classified documents which she had found in the attic of her

house.

These documents were not identified.

Richard Helms

Deputy Director (Plans)

SEGRET

NH 50955

DocId: 32423547

Page

114.

---

## Page 15

SECRET

28 Muzust 1963

"eating a the IsC routive Cormition ra South Viet lan -

6:15 3= 1o, 23 lugast 1563

• Ine ¿resident can fron his seetiog rin the Ciril 71git

eagers in tiro inninet Poca to his oralea and sumoned into its Casi

net noc is secretary al State, da Secretary di Barense, dod 110

Chainsas si ibe voins Criers.

Tas other rambers of the decutiva

committee renaired in 113 o121ee. liter about i1ison sinates, de

Presidesi ratured to his 0111oa it these tage geniesen, siTing,

Do inciention as to what aspecs di ino cout liet lam situation tet

had boen circussio la sualt ancounced that inse tolagrata tena

being sent to saigon:

A) A parsonal sassage to Asbassador Lodge iron the

Presidents (0. 257)

B) A general sessaze ima the Laratiant où Stata

C) à toleran iron Cereral Isylor to Ceneral

Masians. (JaS 3385-03)

Zo Governor Farmium pressed fos stronger irstuctions corized

to remore tise ihu's iran the stil coverinari.

Tes President, indicated

what be maried to set ragington and tie field tired to on a co

ordinated approach to tra prodion and that in liant of a messago is

Caneral. Ear dog he vented to jocced as outlined in ia añuranenuiosed

Dessages. Ee enced the meeting ij stating that to Exacutive Cos

Eittoo vorld sadi agais at sos, 27 lagusto

# Fresident, Vice Fresident

State: Just, Harriran, Filsman, Molting

Defense: "clarara, Ginatrie, Caylor,

Krulad's

treas:.

Dillon

Justice: Robert terredy

Distribution:

DOCT - 15. Elder for the DCI

C/73

White Rousa:

CIA:

Buney, Forrestal, Cliftor, S.-ith

Carter,

Felrs

(Sigres) Richard Helms

Richard l9l7g

Departy Diroctor (Flans)

SEGRET

HW 50955 DocId: 32423547 Page 15

---

## Page 16

SECRET

29 hugust 1703

1E DRIHDET FOR TIE FECORD

STEECT: leeting of the ISC ixecuiive Committeo ta Soutà Viet lan -

Joch, 29 Augast 1903-

The moting bad belors it Saizen Ellel 375 iron 1-bassadon Lodge

Bui Iler and Gereral la lan a

2. Iero was again wat has socone the usual presentation by tho

varioes paruciparis as lo tia desirabtlity al a cuce coup amirst Diesl

Hu, the eart to sare blen but mioad inu, and the caliberata approaca

of attacura to ascertain ticater or not the sM gearala late a coup

plan and ire casabilities lor carryina 1b out. it gaccaily decase the

serse of the sup that Cereral Faricia should be insincied to caritaa

to the sis generals that the arroaches from CIl vera bora ilds and torre

felt desiao to atiaunt to 21rd out through locain's tali triti Cereral

fact plaming to dos General Inylor falt swongly that Caneral Haricre

shoald be aged to 1233 on unatever tie genarala proposed as to its mili-

tary lassibalitt le vaniad to se sure calore oter sotions are taren

that a coup is acually lined up. There uas corcer that tha Sti geperal.

vero rareurerine to rei the initid states to do their blaming for ten,

and the consensus aupeared to ba that every offurt scould be made to sea

that this is an Sil cous and not one run by the Anemicans. It was falt

that any amouscerends abori ice sirping of trited Statas aid or too

Joasing of Tir Moat soreports should de bald up cerding more oration

about ST coup alaria.

it was agreed that the igency rouli disouss vith

1. Hilas certain iseas unden we nint implanent to either got a corro

started or help carry it out. (flars arg nou being developod and irill be

discussed 'ith Stata late today.)

A talestan giring tie sence of the moting was to se draftod by

the data House Stall for Presidential approval.

Ia unite louse, State, Dafense, and all ders assed to hold only

ore fila each inic contained rolley/operational telegrams intolting the

President persocally.

I029326:4

AsEs:

.?=?

(Signed) Richerd delas

Richard Fel's

Distribation:

OrIz - DDI - it. Mèer for the Director

1 cc - C/3

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32123547 Page 16

---

## Page 17

*Present vere:-

-to mesia es ruegos

"s yo intrata

The Fresident, Vice Fresident

State:

Fusk, Harriman, Hilsran, volting

Defense:

"clarara, Cilpatric, Taylor Kulak

Frezsurt:

Ellan.

thite, Rouse:

CIA::

*Cartér, Feims

5793 0026 0857 12 10a773977 CT

Macra tratate ato)

Cow?27 03203 10957 20

2999 901 970 0174

75.3267 7 7 1030 199 I905E"!

75 M 19 SO TUYOSE 1947

13370 9090 19773 478 17009 (:99906.69 9 9975

solismo si 51a acurso on tiei di corora annoseron decci dut to paster

T s cuasura Coherusa Mo Co 895f tal Sita M0C9 6 1509 10 1as

S 1s00ran 50170 704 00G H0NG 09 FUSTE

TRE GOTO TE SECTA STRE N

Ta buenta

290 179 3500F091 10.26

77911

22759:

79571

711000020110

1G52 1G T 55 7 7 797 T:7 1:47 =1 73

Ca Pal Hone a

Fcp0 D 539 720 2aa97aa 0554,76 là 10057 1i90

57 a.

DECIDA

1801173

16 195

NW 50955

DocId: 32423547

Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECRET

THE WHITE HOUSE

WASHINCTON

SECRET

August 29, 1963

AGENDA

Meeting with the President on Vietnan

August 29, 1963 - -12:00 P.M.

1. Policy -- Ambassador Lodge's raply

2. Desense -- Ganeral Harkins' reply

3. Intelligence -- CAS cabie

4. desa steps

Doesmeat control

SECRET

975

ISEGNET

NH 50955

DooId: 32423547

Page

18

---

## Page 19

SECRET

3-5536

29 Cotober. 1753

MEERALDOM FOR TIS FECORD

SUBa30T:

PARTICIPLITS:

_Stato

Dela 90

rate losse

CIA

Whito House lasting on Vietrar

4:20 Pollo, 23 GatoRar 1353

the President

Fice Prosident

Attarey Cersa!

Secretary husk

inder Secretary Farrinas

linder Zecretary jonason

it dendenhal]

Secretary Mclanara

Goneral Taylor

Coneral Kula'

Ms. tillian bindy

Ate lejaorge Bund

Mo fuchool foresial

ise Bronley Sidth

Fra John A. bione

ate Richant Helms

Mr. 51111az 3. Colby

lo tha resting opened with a CIl briafiaz on the dispositlon

of nillary forces in tha vaizon area and a discision oi he di

ferent coup groupings active In ilotna. the prostient irected that

a mossage be sent to Saigon gresenting tine seciles si this briefing

for the concurrenco of coment of incassador lodge end General faridas,

as the ilyies incleated that any cous attampe in Saizon would neet

considerable Ull registanco.

2. Secretary Dusk comented that Dian and thu inst icon a

good real about the cous tali und toat both eidos in a cous told

Do ani to ask to inited statas for assiguance. lo could cara tie

pradiem sl being silent or tadaa a position aalast enslanged f1git-

Inz leacing to a possibla citil war. le poined out thas civil var

RES

1G197

SECREI

HW 50955 DocId:32423547 Page 19

---

## Page 20

SEGI

GRET

• 2.

would alsript the conduct of military operations againt the TC.

Re saliared ie should antatza our Itolverent in this coup and

allow Libassador loize to return on schodula. The Pregident com

mented thai liassador jongo's departur read not ba dalayed but

tat teneral "ariding should so placed in charge if any coup should

begin. le and deneral Taylor commented trat do probian was sot an

overall balance of forces but that the role oi fer leaders sonia co

docisits in a cous situation. It vas surjested that loreral artles,

charge d'Aifaires imeneart ana lis chiai

ace as a coralitoo to

direct uny coup operator. ir. lccone counterad titt tie view that

CAS chief

sbould not bs involved in suco a polley nading funcilon

althoazi so would be in a posinion to provide tecinical acrica to

Cereral fardra and imenear as sell as cary oit their instruc

tics 11 the operasional ilald.

3. Tie Attorney Generai comanted that a corp 11 Fistnan vas

not ona 17 iica the United states could tars a hards ois position

Bisco ta were involved in the success or fallung oi ino var there.

Eo excressed concern tai tha pregent coirse si iction as putting

the saoja citure in the handa ai relatively miercin generais. Ho

polared out tra: President Dian was a ilahter and world probably

react nost shamiy and atemaly is the injind states, lie stated

that se shole inow more about this coup and that failure could spel?

disaster. Fe falt that tie inited States was rising too much baged

on iliasy eridazco..

Lo Ceneral Taylo: commented that his impression was that the

military v9re not interestod in politics but only in getting on inith

the war.. la added that even a successill coup would bare a bad scort

tora ences on tea var since tho condualon and coangea ol ersonnel

such as province chisis would load to a setback it. lcdone stated

that he agreed irita Careral Paylor tat even a successial coup would

creata a perioi ci interregem and corission mien migat oniy 'se

solved by a second or inted coup. "ne Pasident questioned whether

such tide changes in provirca chials unald necessarily have to

follow a succassial coup. Secretary Rusis stated his belie? that a

quick, saccessial coug would bring better leadarshio to Victnaz.

Gorernor larrizan stated his belier tai unlosa a change 1n jover-

ment was brought scout, üne war sill mn dom and be lost since Dies

does not bare me leacorship quallties recessamy to cury the cout

to victor.

5. The Frogidant stated that il the forcea in Saigon iero

not clearly in invor oi tha coup, sa shouid discorage ita launci

Ingo te ased trat ie list the key units and our estimata of their

SECRET

HW 50955 DooId:32423547 Page 20

---

## Page 21

SECRET

- 3=

loyalties and 15 the balance was not claarly indicative of 3 quick

victory, ia scould reconsider. in tis conrection he agreed tras

Asiassacor lodge might dalay his depa, ture Iron saizon 1902 atoni

to noia such an investizacion. Secrutary icilanara stated 1zo2s9a-

dor Lodgo would road this sa a change in his baale instructions and

1n his caller that up to not us sould support or aù least reep hands

off a con. Fa commeriod tas Arcassador lodig :1i]I have some dli-

flealtias in passing over the leariarshis of ins coup escort to teneral

Farians sinco General larkins cas been drought very littla lato recent

plains and discussions. le usted that Amassador joige be given

the option as to inen he sould departe

secretary Risk reiterated

the basia criteria lor nited States action, 1. 2o, taù ye ronia

not Baimlato i cous but that he vould sos tsar on 1 it sifared

the prospect of increased military elion in the var, copular sua

port aù iturored doridi, relations it ta Initod Statos. Tha

Presiiens agroed that noassador loige snould dererdre his ai de

part Finge

5. Miss a separato amiting sa58100, the nestizz restad to

go over 3 sTare telegren with tre Presidari.

lie direciod a raroor of

changes, articuiary to brim out his belai tha mat ta say to te

garerais could be highly decisits as to whener they izunca a cous and

that this sutton 15 noù satirely out of vur lanis. Secondly, ho

vastod to enchasize that the birdes di proi must da on te coup

10roes and nether they barg tie strength to min muckly. I 20tg

He soon discouraze there

15. Diendy expressed concem regardiaz the

socurity si these netingo on Vietnas and tia assolute imortauca oi

keepire, wase discussiong secrat. lis further directed tat any polloy

telagrama ison any Igenoy de clearsd with the whita louse and that toe

anita mouse be giten a copy si operational tralflo shich might 11 any

way indicata palley judgants.

(Signs:) Bichard Helors

1S/ Richard fiolas

Richard Holes/willtan B. Colly

Da/?

C/FB

Disabitlons

Original - The Director

2CC - DIGI /

1 cc - DD/?

I Co - DD/I

]

cc - c/hs

JUL 18 1915

HW 50955

DocId:32423547 Page 21

---

## Page 22

JECRET

EYES ONLY

20 Movember 1763

FE DRAIDEN FOR THE RSCORD

SUBJECT: Cuban Arms Cache in Verezuela

1.

At 5:CO ?. Mo, 19 ovenber,

the, former

Deputy

Chief of Station 17 Caracas, and I called on the Attorey Cereral to sica

him one of the subnachine, zuna wrich had been retrieved irom the toma

cache found by the Venezualan authorities in early lorenber on te

Paraguaza Feninsula of Venezuela. last week, the Atiomey Sereral had

told no that it would be nost useful in the agency vere to produce some

gun or dicer piece of military equipment which had actually been sent iron

Cuba to coiner country in latin irerica. Tharelore, de brieled tha At

torney Cereral in detail on the materiel in ta cache and the means by

which we had been able to cemonstrate that the origin of ine ama vas

Cuban. Le exarined the suomachine gun and the supcorting rhotograong

which show serial numbers and the Cuban Army shiela. While we were tale

Ing viti? tra Attornay General, he took a talaphore call in anoiner room.

that tie vere to go to the ikita House within thirty minutes to snow tais

gun to nia.

2. Ine President was briefed on the origins ai the subnachine gun

and on the sethods used to establish that it had come from ciba. la also

described in detail what was found in the arg cache and the purposes for

which the -atariel was intended. He referred to ta fact that inortar

shells had been found irauped in ia unique air drop gear uhica the agency

The Fresicent inquired about how

the nilitary equiment had been transported to Varezuela, our reply being

that te believed it had been by boat since a small aluninum crait vith an

outboard notor had been found ihres hundred yards from the actual cacre

site: We then pointed out that Fresident Betancourt desired to surface

the finding of the cuban arms cache at a tire of has choosina prior to

the Verezuelan presidential elsction on 1 December.

The President agreed

that President Fetarcourt should ba given this cuportunity. He futher

stated that the trited States Governent should io nothing scout sur

facing its interest in these arms intil a decision has been made on that

steps the United Statas wants to ta're in rotaliation against Castro. He

gave no suzzestiong as to unat line of action he cesird to pursue but

rade it clear that he would expect some recommentations to be forincoming

after the natter had been fully considered by apopriate agencias. lie

1025

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32423547 Page 22

---

## Page 23

LU

inforned hin that the problem was already veing worsed on by Alazis

Johnson, Paul litza, and representatives of tids Agency. I specifically

cleared with the Presicent showing the submachine gun and other evidence

to Interested officials oi Stata and Defense.

3. It was clear that both tha President and the Attorcey Ceneral

werS

intensely interested in this corcravo examale of Castro's emport of

ars for subversion.

There was no opportunity with either gentlanan to

give a detailed briefing on oiner evidence of Castro subversive activity

In Central and South America.

(Signer) Pichart "ly

Richard Hel

Deputy Director (Plans)

(A brigia-s of Acting Fecretary of Stale Alads Johnson and Assistan

Secretay Torin Martin plus li. Nitze and other Pantagon officials iз

scheduled for 2:30 P. M. today.)

Distribation:

Origiral - Mr. Alder for The Director

1 cc - Chief, WH

I co - chief, SAS

1 cc - DD/P

10

SECRET

NH 50955

DocId: 32423547

Page 23

---

## Page 24

SEGRET

Addendum to 20 Movenicer 1953

Memorandun for tie racord

Subject: Cuban Arna Cache in Venezuela

when the nesting ended, the Prasident arose from his rocions

chair and stood beside the collee taale looking toward the fose Garden.

I leaned over and picked up the sionachina zun fron tire coffee tabla.

As I did so, I said to the President on tha sour of the sament, "I am

glad the Secret Service did not catch ne bringing this gun 1n kers."

The President's face Ighted up, he grinred, and Instantly reactod,

"Tes, 1o gives me a feeling of confidence.

" The formerand I firen went

out san as tha iranch doors es to the portico and valled around to

tha Cabera: Room where we had left a briefcase. As wa wallad dom the

hall, we sar the president azain signing mall at the comar of

Mrs. lincoln's desk. He had interrupted work on hig correspondence

to take es-into his office for the comersation.

Richard Heing

Deputy Director for Plars

REGEN 7 FROM

JUL 16 1075

CIA

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32123547 Page 24

---

## Page 25

RECEIZO FROM

JUL 16 1975

CLA

NH 50955

DocId: 32423547

Page 25

---

## Page 26

DATE

TRANSMITTAL SLIP/

TO:

Mr. Brody

BUILDING

ROOM NO.

15 July 75

REMARKS:

The attached copy of AWDulles'

calendar sheet is being forwarded

in response to your request.

Eunice

FROM:

ROOM NO.

FORM

REB 35 241

EXTENSION

BUILDING

FEFLACES FORM 36-8

WHICH MAY BE USED.

(47)

RECEIVED FROM

JUL 16 1975

CIA.

HW 50955 DocId:32423547 Page 26

---

## Page 27

NOVEMBER

6

13

11

20

21

27

28

15

22

29

1060

3

5

10 11 12

16

17 18 19

23

21 25 26

30

FRIDAY

2

NOVEMBER

12:45 grindelin;

3:30

355 PLant

4:30

RECEIVED FROM:

JUL 11 1975

. GIA

NW 50955 DocId: 32423547 Page 27

---

