# 157-10004-10112

## Page 1

157-10004-10112

Date: 06/26/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10112

RECORDS SERIES :

RADIOGRAM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, SAN JUAN

TO : DIRECTOR & SAC, MIAMI

TITLE :

POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA

DATE : 12/08/58

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA

CAYMAN ISLANDS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/27/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

box 377

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955

DocId: 32202001

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECODED COPY SECKLI

SSCI BOX#

377-.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Radio

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

Teletype

IN THIS DOCUMENT AS Suntiged. ComB,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

2-1794

9803 Rad/pre 2:23:94(3FK)

DEFENRED

12-3-58

Nir.

Ns. Ncase

Mr. Parsons

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tarm

Mr. Trotte:

Nir. M.C.S::

Tele. Ros-

Mr. Hollena-

Miss Gond: -

mate

TO DIRECTOR ANO SHE lAID

FiLlies

1B

nel without the express

approval of the

your Committee and the content ma; not he disclosed to unauthorized person-

nation outsid

nation outside your Committer.

I'g rese

This document is prepared in response to

is limited to official proceedings bu

your request and is not for dissemi-

FRCK SAU SAI JUAN

082135

CHARLES WELLINGREL, FOREIG POLITICS MATTERS - CUBA.

OH DECEMBER S, 1958 CIA OFFICER I

SAR JUAN, PUERIC CS]

RICO, ADVISED

TAT NE HAD RECEIVED LAFORATION FROLI A USUALLY

RELTABLE SOURCE AND EVALUATEO HIS INFORMATICH AÜ EUGFE"PROBABLY

TRUE. *

I

' ADVISED THAT BECAUSE OF THE RELATIONSHIP

THACUCH CHICH TIFORMATIOR

MASOBTAINED, NO ACTION SHISH NIGHT

COLF ROSE HIS SOURCE SHOULD BE TAKEN WITHOUT PRIOR CLEARANCE

FRO.. HiM.

SAID ON COTOBEIL 26, 1958 A BEECHCRAFT AIRPLE

PILOTED BY HONEL, A UNITED STATES CITIZEN, LANDED AT CAYMAN

ISLANDS AIRFORT WITH THREE PASULGERS. HORMEL STATEO HE WAS

ON FLIGHT FRO.1 TA..PA, FLORIDA, TO THE CAICOS ISLANDS.

HOREL

TOOK OFF THE FOLLOWING DAY CARRYING ONE PASSENGER IDENTIFICO

AS ALBERTO AND LEAVILG OTHER TWO PASSENGERS OI: CAYMAN ISLAMOS

WITHOUT LÜGGAGE üN PASSPORTS. PASSENGERS LEFT BEHIND VERE ONE

ALBERTO CRESCEIÕO DE LA CRUZ MENENDEZ, GUATE.ALAN LAYER, 1920

MICHIGAN AVEGUE, ALL, FLORIDA, AND OSWALDO ATONIO CASTELL

Y VALDES, HONCURAIL PORTER AND EXFORTER, 1918 S. W. THIRD iVEiLE:

MlA, FLOKlDA. On it.VL. BER 1, 1958 MOBERTO BIS ANCK ARTINEZ

GUZMAN, NOT FURTch IDENTFIED, ARRIVED W. CAYM. ISLANDS CH

A SCHLDULED LAUSA FLIGHT FRO. MMAGDO HE PASSED ONEY TO HELDEL

AND CASTELL, TELLING THE HE MAO BEEN SERT BY MOREL. MARTINEZ

ACTURED TU HER THE SUE DAY. GA HOVERCER 8, 1060 A GAUE C5

L INFORNATION CONTAINES

REIN IS UNCLASSITIED EXORPY

1/0

TERE SHOWN GUHERWISE-

NOT RECEIVED FROM

DEC: MY Ca 1976.

225-94

nasshich

toy

9803-200 mck

A!:

Declassity on: DARCH

REVICED BY FBIJSK TASND OCE

SECRET

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

HW 50955

DocId: 32202001 Page 2

---

## Page 3

+ 168-3-25-581

Rodio

DECODED COPY

SECRET

SSCI BOX i

377-1

Teletype

• Ns. Tolson -

Mr. Bolmunt.

Mr. Mohr -

Mr. Nodso

Mr. Parsons

Mi. Rosch

Mr. Tomm

Mr. Trotter

Mr. W.C. Sul:

T'ele. Room.

Mr. Holloma..m

Miss Gandy

PAGE T..O, FRO. SAO SAiL JUANN

082135

ARMS, ICLUDING CE ANTI - TARK RIFLE ANO SEVERAL SUB - MACHIRE

GUNS, NO DIGUOVERED HEAR THE GAY ME ARSTRIP. LIEDEL AND

CASTELL, WHO HAD BEEN SERVED VITI DEFORTATION CROERS THE

PREVIOUS DAY, VERE QUESTIONED AND AC.ITTED THAT THEY HAD

UNLCAOLO THE

ARIS FRU. MOREL'S FLAME, HIDDEN THE HERE THE

AIRSTRIP ARU INTENDED TO DELIVER THE TO CUBA.

CAY AN AUTHORITIES SUSTEOT LUT HAVE ID FAGOS THAT THEY STEE

TO STEAL A CAYA BRAC AIRWAYS TWIN - ENGINEO ATRONAFT FROM

THE CAY. AI-WAGAARO FLY IT TO CUBA. HOREL NETURNED TO THE

CAYMAN ISLAIDS FRO... FLCHIDA CH LOVEMBER 9, 1958 IN A CHARTERED

AlRenAFT AND ins antitoled Cir hikival. -

AUTHORITIES UDERSTAND THAT HORNEL 1S CN BAIL ON A CHANGE OF

VICLATING UITED STATES CUSTOLS REGUALTIONS AND PLAN TO RETURN

MI..: TO THE UNITEO STATES. CAYAN AUTUCRITIES ASSURE THAT

WERENDEZ AND CASTELL ARE AGENTS OF THE Z6TH OF JÜLY LOVE EUT,

AND BELIEVE THAT BOTH ARE CUBAN CITIZENS. DURIG TiEIR STAY

'IN

CAYMAN THEY RECEIVED MESSAGES (TEXTS VIKNOWN) FRO. THE FOLLO.

INDIVEJUALSES LUISUOGALES, 212 SU 18 COURT, MIAL, FLONIDA,

AND DO. INCO FORTELE, 950 S. SECOND STREET, APARTET 3, MA1,

FLORIDA. LEOR ITION SET FORTH ABOVE 15 CLAS.IFIED SEGRET BY

RECEIVED:

8:40 PiA RADIO

8:50 PAl CODING UMIT CIA

RECEIVED FROM

MAY.

SECRET ORIGINAL DISCORD 0 1

enniained in the above messore is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, is is suggested that i

AW 50955 DocId:32202001 Page 3

enteraphic systems.

---

