# 157-10004-10284

## Page 1

157-10004-10284

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10284

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 109-584

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, NEW YORK

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES, INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

DATE : 12/10/68

PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

~ INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

CUBAN OPERATIONS

CASTRO

ASSASSINATION PLOTS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/07/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 50955

DocId: 32202173

Page 1

Date: 09/07/94

Page: 1

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUWENT,

as souitize?

---

## Page 2

IGNIVINOO NOXEVNSOINI TIV

.397R00"

dea topiare (6: 6o 11) 199-11.89

UNITED SENTES GOVCKAMENT

Memorandu

SECRET

GIA HAS NO ORLECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OB-

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

SSCI BOX

2133198-

DATE:

ГО

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

12/10/68

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

FROM

SAG, NEW YORK (105-35253) (P)

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT GMBZ MEY

As Denitriad

FUSILCT:

ANTT.-FUDEL CASTRO ACTIVICIES

IS-CUEA

9803.120/ mo 2-29-94

(1)(4)

aBulat to IX: 7/1/68, captioned as abovo, and tro

IB.

(5)iottor

captioned

above, chelosing bill entitled,

"CARLOS

ANOLO PLAD Y DOL PINO".

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are 11 conies of

"nots inaulis of the intervien concucien ou

•IS IMUCHIO NHOMS 323H4

12/5/68 with

During the interview of

relationship with CIA was discussed, ma

advised that

he hid no current working arrangenent with un.

nor has CrA

reauasted him to perfort any

CASINO mis uncoverca

in 1966.

have pariodically a social call

did montion that from time to time he is contacied

Boated that when the plot against CASTRO is

uncovered in the Fall of igcs, cIn dropped their reiationshit

with him, as the discovery of the plot and the sausecuent

arrests in Havana and alsa the dismissai of the (ra norsonal

2

Ypp8-2080

8070

This document is

nation outin

propored in response to uner renupst muel is

not for dissemi-

your Committer.

Its and is limitri

your Committre

and the

nel without the

content miay not he disclured

Dinirpit

the FBI

L

?-Bureau (Encls. 11) (Rs) REC64 / 0%

I-Hiani (105-1742)

(Encl. 1) (Into) (RE)

I-NFO (105-29955) (Encl. 1) (Info)

(R$:)

I-New

York

i-do

584-4783

FJO:MIW

(5)

DEC

State/CIA/Scoret Corvice/TAOTSD.

REVIEWED BY B/JFK TASK FORCE

Army/davy/Air

Coordinator er Calan Acruir:, State o RELEASE IN FULL

By R/S FOl

•Info

RELEASE IN PARI

I TOTAL DENIAL •

is raine Bonds Really

HW 50955

DocId: 32202173 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SSCI boisor.

377°

SEUTEN

18X 105-35253

and snecifically montioned

stated that since 1905 in

1B

CIA

has had no voriung relationshir

With Chi, and ne icels

that nis iseruiness to the UIn, because

of the incidiont,

is now finished.

es most cordial during the interview and

at the conclusion, stated that if at any

• time the Bureau would

have naed of his services,

in any mainer.

arise in the

future in which he could be of assistance, he would

be contactad.

RECEIVED COMM

MAY

NH 50955

SECREE

-2*-

Do01d:32202173

Page

---

## Page 4

UNITIE STATES DEPARTALNY OF D000I

In Airply, P'irreso Kofir 10

Hile No.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

December 10, 1968

SSCI BOX iT 377-

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

Its use is limited. In nfficial proceedings by

nation outside vour Commitice.

wor Commit're aul the contort ma! not br disclased to waitiorized person

mel mithout the express approval af the FBl.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED •

DATE 2-24-94 Bx I803Pdama

Carlos Antonio Piad y Del Pino

TAK.

Carlos Antonio Piad y Del Pino, a Cuban exile

had been interviewed by

resee a Mes or the a Cal bar been there acon (rai)

in Urshingion. Do Co. on June o, 1900, rolative to a

alloging groac discontont in Cuba arainst Prine Minister

Fidol Castro nich he had received.

Piad stated thee the

"soport" vas fron a fonale priord in Cuba whom he deciined

to identify, anu he said that this "roport"

was reccived

in the maii addrossed to his wife. Plad aloo said that ha

did not now havo this witten

"roport" which was received

from the woman in Cuba.

Piud said that he was cortain thai

there was an apperatue in oneration

in cube wich was tientin.

Prie Minister Castro, but "roporos" were vague and he nod no

Died wre of the aninion that

coula

throw more tight on the natter.

Piad, In a leticr to the FBI dated June o, 1900,

among other things, furnished the following:

"I am totally ignorant of onv blans which

or his friends night have. This is

only something I have been made avare of.

without

being able to furnish anything concretely, I did

wish to bring to the attention o the Department

of state something they cusht to know about.

an say that I have Iriends in ther

nd that I understand they have novor Dam brou

Cormunists, but I ronent that I have not hac

contact with

r his friends

up to now.

I have haa only a report from a

female friend from Havana ino has knowledge

- RECEIV.:

seats matter.

This document contairs neither recommendations

or conclusiong oi the is

Its contents are not to ve distrivuted outside

your arency.

DUJ

HM 50955 DocId: 32202173 Page 1

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR®

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

=

AS SANITIZED

12÷7-94

en (1(A)

---

## Page 5

SSCI BOXi

377.-

Corlos Antonio Plad y Del Pino

"This Is more or less

the substance of ill that

I wanted to bring to tin attontion of the Poenrtment

of state so that they

mirat know about wiat sypeared

to be a pion armed at

ascrosination of Castro,

and that it appoared that

his friendo wore involved

in ju in sore way.

uns a donnelous hon, and I cired che

recently to assassingie.

I explained chet

tron mat

I have read Bounedierna is one of the moot

closaly

guarded men in the world ocher chen Castro

and that

It is unpredictable what le is going to do."

was intorvices on miahar 5. 1058

is

President oi tha

Incorporated, and also di the fim,

of Milan, Italy.

Eoth these firms are trested on the third

floor of the buildina

New York Caüy.

and

In aaaaron to bat above-

nautonre corpontess

also connected wich the

stora in Corova,. Sluberanu

In connection with his

nich is operatiod ly

business.

trevols

frequently to Europe, particulaily to Italy, Spain and Franco.

advised that in 1966 thare was a conspiracy

to assassinate Prime Minister Fidel Castro,

and that he had s

part in this riot.

During the pericd 1964,

1965 and 1965,

stated that he was on good relations with mombers

of

the Cuban Government who were assioned to posts in Spain,

Italy and France,

and also with the mombers of the Cuban

Mission to the United Nations.

catca as 3 result

of those contrets, he was trusted by nonbers of the Cuban

Government and was in a position to outain information vi value

which was of assistance at that time in working out details

of the plot to k11l Prime Minister Fidel Castro.

the rest as all metate in

statil when the plot was uncovered in 1966.

advised that

Major Rolando Cubair sconaes, a young doctor was picken

up in Ravana torether with others Involved in the plot. and

cubala une contancadila 25 roar in pricon

May s01976

- 2-

NN 50955 DooId: 32202173 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SSCI BOX #

377-

Carlos Antonio Piad y Del Pino

stated that after the discovory of this plot,

al1 his contact müh scorecentatives or the Cuban Government

and considates in foreign countries ceased.

sunbcd that he was no longer trusted by anyone

within

the CoDen

coverment and, hence, lost contect with iriends in

Favone, Cubao

Tavised that currently ha has no dircet

contret or even amusave

Cuban Government

although ho knoi

El30 pointed out that

also stated that since the discovery of

the plot in 1y00,

how ded no renozer concace witn

mda nur talps to snain, ho

also knom

some ago, let Madrid

and current as restar in bercenta, spain, here ne is memorias

a Cuban figntor uno is allegod to be a European bozing champion.

tated that he knows that there is much unrost

-and discontons ithin Cube today,

but he hes no taouladso of

any details or

any plot wich could exist against l'idel Castro

in Cuba today.

RECEIVEN COnIA

-3*-

50950

Doc1d: 32202173

Page

6

---

