157-10011-10014

oz H/ 53

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORDS SERIES

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :

TO

TITLE :

INDEX CARDS

DATE
PAGES

SUBJECTS :

OPERATION MONGOOSE
CASTRO

DOCUMENT TYPE :
V CLASSIFICATION :

V RESTRICTIONS :
VCURRENT STATUS : P
VOATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS
Box 141, Book 2 of

HW 50955 DocId:32203762

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

. . Date: Qgéts4e2

Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM |

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

SSCIA
157-10011-10014

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Cont
2

: 06/00/75
: 483

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

T \
REFERRER AA
09/28/93 Gow

Sascesaaee i

: b

3, Index Cards dated June/July 1975

[R]}--—LTEM IS RESTRICTED

Page 1



@ abed ZSLeozze'PII0d GcEeoc HH

e, _ NG GBJECTION 4o- syored
— NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL

Mh | ue [94

: ‘PERSONS/ENTITIES : DATIES:
JFK a es
Maxwell Taylor,/

mented

27 Sept 62 MOONGOOSE
Diem)

Taylor states that the Speciai Group and the Sencial Group Augmented considered a proposal by
CIA for covert activities designed to harass the Nemocratic REnublic of Vietnam. This had
been prepared in response to a request by the Sec.'s of State arid Defense.

Taylor added that the Special Group asked that a more detailed oneration plan be prepared.

- It was agreed that_De
of this program. Jikers
batt tes—soxas=to=perin

nse make cértain equipient and personnel available to CIA in support
intptleight=de signed-to—identi fy_theNorth-Vie tnamese—-radar-order—of

: = fei. me Was authorize: —~Phis_will_be—flewncout
special lyac ped-aircralt avarlablé-on—F Pe heeChines€

°. gon using cra.
Kx ree Mark ingsarei ved5=and=employane—ChincseeNatronaelsesep S-documented_South Vietnam -
SSRIS, — = * :
& ES n
SOURCE: j BEN tk SARE
SOURCE Maxwell Taylor! s«mejnd; ‘Andjum font ident, dated | ~--—" PGW
Sept 27, 1962. ae

(pogeny ge’
we

. | PILE: " te pate: 9/29/75


€ abed ZaLEOzZE? PII0G SG60c AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO are
BEA oF | | ED
ISD
AS SANITIZED  OCUMENT
99 ~ 3-9
ye)
CARD 2 of 2
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: | CATEGORIES: TOP secRpp
HELMS, Richard feb 61

|

HARVEY used (SEVER! in developing the EXECUTIVE ACTION capability (38).

pugs staves +hat
Sometime shortly after this initial meeting, and while HARVEY was still discussing the
HELMS fully on the seneral

development of EXECUTIVE ACTION with BISSELL, "he briefed Mr.
conéépt but without mention of the then on-going plan to assassinate CASTRO." (38) . ee
- FETE
- i

OCCURRENCE: (continued from card 1)

ae.

SOURCE: 1.0. REPORT 1967, pp. 37-3 STAFF: Baron

DATE: 28.6.75

FILE:



ccé6oc MH

F ahead zaLeozze:prIo0G

PERSONS/ENTITIES: » DATES: 1 CATEGORIES:
EE ROUNO cE NEES 1 ' LAPEGUR EBS
Maheu Trafficante 3 or 4-61 i Castro

Edwards Bree bavid ye |

Rossellic~

Giancana :

OCCURRENCE: Yad nd

Breckinridge testified, Maheu on retainer to CIA 'in the early days" (Tr. 99)
('50's?) and"on one occasion’ he (obtained: a" female ‘Commanion | for an’ important —
eipn réadér."F (fr. 99) Edwards contacted Maheu who contactéd Roselli

“who” Contactéd Giancana who contacted Trafficante, who "travelled to and from

Cuba," (Tr. 100) and who “had a source inside Cuba (who) ...was believed to .
have.access to. Castro. and_a_poison_pill was. developed that. he was to-insert soe we

into Castro's food." (Tr. 101)

SOURCE: STAPF ¢

Testimony of Wm. Colby, 5/23/75 John Bayly

ti ea aeas


G abed -zeicozze:Pro0od GcEeOoc MH

oe 0
cihyor
of soe CASO sag

OR a Cath)

Oe és) Ge)

PERGONS/ENTIPIES :

(See list of names bellow. ) ‘

CATEGORIES: TOP GLCRN?

CA STZ0
aaer

SFT CAIN / PIAS!
OWLEDUE OF PI
CARD 1 of 3

OCCURRENCE? “the list of persons with knowledge of PHASE II of the CASTRO ASSASSINATION
OPERATION differs from those who knew of PHASE I. Those with knowledge of PHASE II are:

i. RICHARD HELMS, DD/P 5. J.C. KING, Chief
®, WILLIAM HARVEY, Chief, Task Force W -
; JAMES O'CONNELL, Office of Security

ie knows that Harvey took over the
uoeration .and. kvered pili:ss—armsj—and --
edauipment in A 1962. He does not
ow of developments after May 1962.)

Ir --
SE IL

» WH Division (He stated in
our interview with him that he lmew that HARVEY
was having, meetings with members of the rambling,

Ie was meeting with
rs in Reno (sic) in the winter of 1962.)

4. SHEMTPTIELD EDWARDS, D/Security (He 7 OF, “Dh sD SHACKLEY, Chief, JMVAVE Clie assisted

ows of the fact of the turnover to HARVEY in the deli very or arms and equipment to
IARVLY, but states he “es nothing of VARONA in April 1962, but pres sumably did not know
lovelonments thereafter, the identities of the rec ents nor (con't. ) -

STAPF?
Star Baron

SOURCE: T.G. REPORT i
ILE: ad

DATE: 28.6.75

s“deputy in 1962° “oe


9 abeqd ZeLeocze Ploeg cceoc AH

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
(Same instruction as ecard 1.) /pt /] of
CARD 2 of 3

~ OCCURRENCE: ;
SHACKLEY, cont: the purpose for whieh the ll. MACEO, ROSELLI's "Man"  (MACEO
iaterial Was to be used.) probably knew there was a povernment
4, { TSD }par- . connection, but may not have identified
‘ieIpation was” limited to Turnisning the - CIA as the agency.)

aills to O'CONNELL on 18 April 1962.)

J. ANTONIO VARONA, the Cuban exile leader

{He presumably was not aware of government
sonsorship. )

). VARONA'S SON-IN-LAW (He too was pre-
sumably not aware of government's role.)

SOURCE: STAFF:

FIL!

DARE:


£ abed ZaLeozze:PI90q SG60c AH

Lio WAS_assigned t

DATES: leasran CATEGORIES:
196> | “SUBAe-— SYNDICATE/PHASE IT
une 1962 H

PERSONS/ENTLTLES
HARVEY, WiLLi
O'CONNELL
ROSSELLI, JOH

OCCURRENCE: (46)
HARVEY, O'CONNELL, and ROSSELLI meet in Washington./ O'CONNELL and HARVEY agreed that O'CONNELL
continue in the operation for two or three weeks after HARVEY's takeover (46).

The I.G. REPORT does not set with certainty the date O'CONNELL was finally eliminated from the
operation, te it_says he definitely had to be out of the operation by June 1962, when he

T.G. REPORT 1967, p. 46 Baron

FILE: DATE: — 28.6.75


Gceos AH

8 ehed zeceozze:plo0g

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: ! CATEGORIES: op secre
HARVEY, William { CAS 6029 a
ROSSELLI, John 21 April 1962 | -CUBS-—— SYNDICATE/PHASE IT

VPRONA, Tony, ag
O* CONNELL

oc ORAENCES
HARVEY arrives in Miami to find ROSSELLI already in touch with TONY VARONA, the Cuban exile
leader who had participated in PHASE I. (47)

According.to HARVEY and O'CONNELL, who agreed that this. was an on-going, operation,
the poison pills were to be placed into CASTRO's food, by an asset of VARONA's who had access
to someone in a restaurant frequented by CASTRO.

SOURCE: 1.G. REPORT.1967, p. 17

FILE: DATE? — 28.6.75


“6 aBed f8LE0ZTEPIOCG soGOs MN

HAS NO OBJECTION TO
Ce LASSIFIGATION BNDIOR
Pe LEASE OF THiS DOCUMENT

NTIZED
sou 4 Molt

Food)

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: leasteo CATEGORIES:
HARVEY, William 1A Apr 1962 | Sts —— SYNDICATE/PHASE II
O'CONNELL ov dune 19627) | :
ROSSELLI, John Se .

OCCURRENCE: (ie)
HARVEY, O'CONNELL, and ROSSELLI meet in Washington./ O'CONNELL and HARVEY agreed that O'CONNELL
continue in the operation for two or three weeks after HARVEY's takeover (46).

O'CONNELL was finally eliminated from the

The 1.G. REPORT does not set with certainty the date
f the operation by June 1962, when he

operation, although it says he definitely had to be out o
was—assigned._to! ne Se

SOURCE: 1.G. REPORT 1967, p. 46 STAFF; Baron

FILE: DATE: 28.6.75


OT abeaq ZeLeosze:PII0d CoEOs AH

NO OBJECTION TO
CHES SIFIGATION A OENT
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

ASSANITIZED g

DATES: CATEGORIES:

MONGOOSE

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
MCCONE, HARVEY, §RWx

ve Of the
aand obtained

pO ees
Cuban regime.” Ac

5 des
ne ed Cae ge Mu

etc to provide intelligence on the Cuban solitieal leadetship® and to work
shi

nst the Cuban Communist regime
‘direct personal harm § Bier:
‘direct recruitment o

ia Odea ray in activity which might result in

STAFF:

>, di Genova
DATE? July 1, 1975


- TT abheaq zeLeotze:Pplood cceoc AH

. AS NO OBJECTION TO
CA UASSIFICATION AND/OR .
_ RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMEN

| "RS SANITIZED
24-3-9" a ;
| pice)

|

i

- PERSONS/ENTITIFS :
Desmond FITZGERALD

| CATEGORIES:

, OCCURRENCE: (96M AD, ie j

Desmond FITZGERALD, Chief of SAS, met with AMLASH, using as interpreter.

(88-89). The cover of the "contact plan for the meeting, a copy of which is in the
AMLASH file," (89) read as follows:

“FITZGERALD will represent self as personal representative of Robert F. KENNEDY gm"
who traveled Paris for specific purpose meeting (AMLASH) and giving him

assurances of full U.S. support if there is change of the present government

in Cuba." (89) : ,

According to FITZGERALD, he discussed the planned meeting with the DD/P (Hl

MS)
ZGERALD.

STAFF:

F Baron
IG REPORT 1967 DATE:
FILE: TANTS


ZI abeg zereozze:pIoca cs60G AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO. ~
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
4S SANITIZED ar

24-3-44~ See -

a)

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
5
Oct. 29,/1963 Castro
Nov. 1
lov 1963 Cad 24 om

OCCURRENCE: (CARD 2)

In a memorandum by f m November 13,
informed [AMLASH] that the U.S. is prepared to render all necessary assistance to
any anti-Communist Cuban group which succeed S_in neutralizing the present Cuban

leadership." (89) Despite the fact thath reported that “nothing of an operational
nature was discussed at the FITZGERALD meeting " (90), FITZGERALD recalled that

1963, it was reported that "FITZGERALD

AMLASH-1 "spoke repeatedly of the need. for_an. assassination-weapon-y En-particular,
he wanted a high-powered rifle with telescopic sights. or some other weapon that could
be used to kill Castro from a distance." (90) FITZGERALD said that he told AMLASH
"that the U.S Enment would have no part of an attempt Our€ASTRO's life. (90)
However, the ymemorandum reported "After the meee ih en stated that he

es :
was satisfied with the policy discussion but no} gw what technical support
we could provide him."(90) ‘

SOURCE: STAFF:
IG REPORT 1967 FU Baron
FILE: DATE:

ltd T/V/75


€T aBed ZRLeozZEPIOoG Gee6os BH

HAS NO-OBJECTION TO
CECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED _-
4-3 -44
Ge)
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: | CATEGORIES:
Desmond FITZGERALD
Oct. 29, 1963 i Castro
Mov.
HELMS Cad 4 z
OCCURRENCE: (CARD 1) Fi

Desmond FITZGERALD, Chief of SAS, met with AMLASH, usin. s interpreter.

(88-89). The cover of the "contact plan for the meeting, a copy of which is in the
AMLASH file," (89) read as follows:

£ as personal representative of Robert F. KENNEDY yg»
who traveled Paris for specific purpose meeting (AMLASH) and giving him

assurances of full U.S. support if there is change of the present government

in Cuba." (89)

According to FITZGERALD, he discussed the planned meeting with the DD/P (HELMS)
who decided it was hot necessary to seek approval from Robert KENNEDY for FITZGERALD
BO ; = STAFF?

F Baron
IG REPORT 1967 DATE?

FILE: 7/1/75


BL ehed ZeLeoeze: Ploeg cc6e0s AH

CIAHAS.NO OBJECTION

IFICATION £2 0/08
RELEASE OFTHIS DOCUMENT
‘AS SANITIZED

24-3 AE

(1X4)

DATES:

Oct. 39,/1963
Nov. 1741963

CATEGORIES:

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

Castro

Cae 2-4 2
OCCURRENCE: (CARD 2)
In a memorandum byl: CHEZ on November 13, 1963, it was reported that "FITZGERALD

informed [AMLasH] that the U.S. is prepared to render all necessary assistance to

any anti-Communist Cuban group which succeeds in neutralizing the present Cuban
leadership." (89) Despite the fact that FSAN jreported that "nothing of an operational
nature was discussed at the FITZGERALD meeting " (90), FITZGERALD recalled that
AMLASH-1 "spoke repeatedlyof the need for an assassination weapon. In particular,

he wanted a high-powered rifle with telescopic sights or some other weapon that could

be used to kill Castro from a distance." (90) FITZGERALD said that he told AMLASH
“that the U.S. Government would have no part of an attempt om@€ASTRO's life. (90)
However, the memorandum reported "After the mge a ‘t N MLASH] stated that he

was satisfied Witt the policy discussion but NO}J Qe to%khow what technical support
we could provide him."(90) Pe aN Fe)

SOURCE? STAFF?
IG REPORT 1967 F°Baron
FILE: DATED gyis7s5


ST ahed ZeLeoece Ploeg Sce0s AH

DATES: | CATEGORIES:

i
Dec. 6-7, 1964 i Castro

AMLASH indicated that although he was unable to
his plans during the past year, he "continued to feel that his solution to
the Cuban problem was the only one feasible and that he had to continue trying."
Seog AMLASH "was told that the U.S. Government could not and would not in any

way ecome involved or provide assistance in the task he had planned for himself."

However, the IG REPORT explains that SAS "contrived to put (MANUEL) ARTIME and -—— -

(AMLASH) together in such a way that neither knew that the contact had been engineered
by the CIA. The thought was that ARTIME needed a man inside and (AMLASH) wanted a
silenced weapon, which CIA was unwilling .to furnish to him directly. By putting

the two together, ARTIME might get his man inside and (AMLASH) might get his silenced

weapon-~from ARTIME, T. id gtgad to furnish an assassination weapon for ARTIME
to give to [AMLASHR, Biwdd -: 1)

SOURCE:

TAFF:

IG REPORT 1967 F Baron

PATE a /75


ST abe zaLeoeze :PIo0G SG60c AH

PERSONS/ENTITIES;
ART INE

Dec.

30,

Jan. 3, 1965

CATEGORIES:

1964

OCCURRENCE:

ARTIME and AMLASH met in Madrid, where AMLASH told ARTIME that

silencer for a FAL rifle from the Americans,

ARTIME agreed to furnish either a silencer fo

silencer." (102) ARTIME reported the results
GSaN (GHEZSin Florida on Jan. 3, 1965,

EEK pHi ig,

OURCE: :
SOURCE IG REPORT 1967

FILE:

"he had requested a
which they had not been able to provide.
ra FAL or a comparable rifle with

of this conversation in a meeting with

STAPR: F Baron

DATES 3/1/75



LT abeaq ZaLeozze:PIo0g ccens AH

CIA HAS NO OBJe¢
: JECT)
FeO aon
AS SANITIZE DOCUMENT
24-4 -G4¢ b..—
a) @)
‘PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
ARTE — See
AMLASH
corey” Dec. 30, 1964
Castro
Jan. 3, 1965
OCCURRENCE?

ARTIME and AMLASH met in Madrid, where AMLASH told ARTIME that "he had requested a
silencer for a FAL rifle from the Americans, which they had not been able to provide,
ARTIME agreed to furnish either a silencer for a FAL or a comparable rifle with
silencer."' (102) ARTIME reported the results of this conversation in a meeting with

SANGHEZIin Florida on Jan. 3, 1965. :
eae . SEC Ey Bones
wil, a
SOURCE ie REPORT 1967 STORES WF Baron
FILE:

DATES anys



BT ahed zeceozze:PIo0g Gseos AN

|AS NO OBJECTION TO
oet ISSIFIGATION AND/OR
“RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED pi
29-377

SSt
REK ail leah oO
MeGeorge Bundy fr. Wilson Mtr. Parrot Net 9, 1962 Special Group (Augmented)
nr ! Dr. Charyk /
De. Scoville
Col. Steakley ‘ Wong cose

OCCURRENCE :
SGA discussed various. possibilities of accomplishing reconai:

very low level coverage by tactical airer: alt to high perform
lights and peripheral flights were discussed.

ance of Cuba, vangins fron
ce aircraft and drones. Over-

[t was agreed that the first priority is one high perfomnance ‘ in the
the island, to be accompanied by all out Elint siyyport. Depending on the re
a uuaber ot similar scarches ay he outed. i

authority, but the decision on the second pro;

estera part of ¥
sults of this,

sition lett open.

The eutire package was to be discussed | at the Just » and by Cpicls on Wednesday, Octoher 10th.

record, ata bodeOc

Memorandum f Paateeting of | DATE: Pas
oro mired by Thomas Parrot. ~
* fy nV) fhe



6T afea ZBLEOZTZE!PIOCG GS60S BH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED
24-3 -4
ay)

. PERSONS/ENTITIES:
(See list of names below. )

f CATEGORIES: TOP SECRET

CASTRO —_

GABA - SYNDICALE/PHASE IT --
KNOWLEDGE OF PHASE EE

CARD 1 of 3

OCCURRENCE:

OP!

=

e list of persons with knowledge of PHASE II of the CASTRO ASSASSINATION

TION differs from those who knew of PHASE I, Those with knowledge of PHASE IT are:

1. RICHARD IIMS, DD/P 5. J.C. KING, Chief, WH Division (He stated in

2. WILLLAM HARVEY,

3. JAMES O'CONNELL, Office of Security
(He knows that Harvey took over the
operation and delivered pills, arms, and 6.

equipment in April .

know of developments after May 1962.)
4. SMEMFIELD FDWARDS, D/Security (He

knows of the fact o.

HARVEY, but states he knows nothing of
developments thereafter. )

SOURCE:

FILE:

I.G. REPORT 3

Chief, Task Force W our interview with him that he knew that HARVEY
was having meetanes with members of the rambling.

syndicate in 19

2.

RS HARVEY's deputy in 1962

is that HARVEY was meeting with
gansters in Reno (sic) in the winter of 1962.)

7 ELD SHACKLEY, Chief, JMWAVE (He assisted
HARVEY in the delivery of arms and equipment to
VARONA in April.1962, but presumably did not know
the identities of the recipients nor (con't.)

962. He does not

the turnover to



ire abea ZeLeoece : Ploeg Gc6os AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED we
24-3-47%

u) @)

FONOUND/ENLLELBS !
(Same instruction as card 1.)
; CARD 2 of 3

CCURRENCE:
SHACKLEY, cont: the purpose for which the ; 11. MACEO, ROSELLI's "Man" (MACEO
material was €o be used.) probably knew there was: a government
8. TSD (CP par- connection, but may not have identified
ticipation was limited to furnishing the CIA as the agency.)

pills to O'CONNELL on 18 April 1962.)

9. ANTONIO VARONA; the Cuban exile leader
(le presumably was not aware of government
sponsorship. )
10. VARONA'S SON-IN-LAW (He too was pre-
sumably not aware of government's role.)

SOURCE:

PILE: : DATE:



Te abeqd ZeLeoeze:PIo0g Coeoc AH

on 10
0 OBJECTION on
NAN!
seme
RS SANITIZED p.—
at

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
AREY, Wan

DATES:

CATEGORIES:
"EXECUTIVE ACTION ; =

26 Jan. 1961,

OCCURRENCE:

NARVEY testified that he had a conversation with ARM OLD. SILVER about the EXECUTIVE ACTION
project on January 26, 1961, after HARVEY and BISSELL had already discussed the matter. (52)..
HARVEY testified that “he learned early_in the operation that BISSELL had discussed the ques- ' ¢

tion of assassination with ARNoED)

WERE} (52)

TAFE? Thea

DATE: 30.6.75


ee aheq .zeLeezze:ploaced cceoc BH

ecrion 0
0 O/OR
opener ASUNENT
ya

e rie
ssn 24 ats a)

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: " CATEGORIES:
eee : “EXECUTIVE A ACTION
2 <a i vy 1/26/61
Bissell, Richard

OCCURRENCE: Harvey testified that he had a conversation with fimo! ryabout the
lxecutive Action Project on January 26, 1961, after Harvey and oe éady discussed
the matter (52). Harvey testified that he learned early in the operation that Bissell had
discussed the question of assassination with ATO VAS ‘ 5] (52 )

Pere
URCE: STAPF:
SOURCE HARVEY TESTIMONY, June 25, 1975, p. 52 ———' Rhea
FILE: . DATE:

6/30/75


€¢@ abed ZALeosZe:PII0g Coeoc AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

IFICATION ANO/OR
DESE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED ge
B4-3-

wo)

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

CATEGORIES:

HARVEY, WILLIAM EXECUTIVE ACTION ,
cSER EOE

KOBARIC

CCURRENCE: Tarvey was as COTAVET

meeting in January of 1961, concerning Executive Action. One portion of the notes
stated, "Be within KUBARK, one focal point for control, search, training, case
officering, etc. -- GDP authority in this focal point mandatory. DCI officially
advised?" (57) Harvey testified that he did not know whether the DCI was advised,.
that he had been asked to create a capability for Executive Action and had taken
certain steps to have an assessment of assets in that connection. (57) Ilarvey
clarified that the wording of the memo probably meant that consideration should be y
given to the question of how, whether and under what circumstances the DCI should be
officially advised of his program, "I want to make it clear that this in no way

means he should be advised. He should not be advised, he should never be advised,

he should always be advised." (59). Ile testified that this matter would have been
brought up again at any time re OE aeen Jed to specific targeting

or specific operation or specif Pa ne (59)

SOURCES TARVEY TESTIMONY, June “By, Gav, 1 Son ie

FILE: DATE: 6/30/75

STAR Fey Rhea


“p@ afea -zeceozze:pracad cc6eos BH

1A HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION ann :
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUME!
ASSANITIZED— -2-—~—

24- 3 Ste )

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

POTDONNERLS 2 Justin
a ane BISSELL, ‘BL, Richard
“TUMUMBA, Patrice
OCCURRENCE:

DATES: t “CATEGORIES: TOP SECRET
May 1961

EXECUTIVE ACTION

LR RIELE.

"The project name, ZRRIFLE, first appears in the files in May 1961, although the first re-
corded approval is dated 19 February 1962." (38)

"The EXECUTIVE ACTION “eegemee- program | came to _be Known as ZRR Its principal asset was

for use in a in_a special opera—
tion “in ae tobe run by ee NEON ONNTs I]
Wee sly mare Survey Ol trie -SCene, decided Ae wanted no part int eon
a empty and asked to be released -- which BISSELL eranted)." (38)

I.G. REPORT 1967, p. 38

FILE:

DATs Of Kae . ‘


Ge ahed -Z8Le0ece'ploed Gce0s AH

DATES: CATEGORIES: “OP SISCRISL
February 1961 | EXECUTIVE ACTION /2 POUL IE
(HARVEY's rouh CacrRo CRULE
estimate) i . ~

foster COL CO

BISSELL, Richard
HARVEY
WHITE HOU:
i

SE

the
BISSELL assigns to HARVEY /. developing of "an EXECUTIVE ACTION capability; i.e.,

a general stand-by capability to carry out assassinations when required." (37)

‘The WHITE HOUSE has twice urged me to create such

. "HARVEY's notes quote BISSELL as saying,
eloping a general capability

a capability.'. BISSELL recalls discussing the question of dev
with HARVEY." (37)

"HARVEY says that, BISSELL had already discussed certain aspects of the problem with, CARNOLD.

(SieWitBand witn{SeDNecorrgmensy. 37-38)... .

° (continued) ened (e42.
T.G. REPORT 1967, pp. 37-38 STAFF: Baron

SOURCE:

FILE: DATE: 28.6.75



92 ahed ceLeOzTZEePIO0d Goe0c BH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
RELA CATION AND/OR
THIS DOC
AS SANITIZED MENT
29-3 -44
(OW
!

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: | cyte CATEGORIES: ‘TOP SECRET
BISSELL, Richard #0. DONNER "useing | € eB. HKECUTIVE ACTION /2 /P ia
HARVEY, William BRECKENRIDG Seo Hay 1961 ! conco / ZRRIFLE
SERISER HELMS, Richard . > Ay
SSILVER,; GArnole QIwin é f i
LUMUMBA, Patrice aa te

OCCURRENCE:

The EXECUTIVE ACTION program authorized by BISSELL and run by WILLIAM HARVEY "came to be known

as_ZRRIFLE, Its principal asset was an a RNOLD
(SIEVER| for use, ina. special operation in “66 be
run by SUSTIN -O' DONNEBES (pony Be nade a survey of the scene, decided he wanted no part in

that assassination attempt “and-asked to be released — which BISSELL granted.)" (38)

NOTE: In the copy of the I.G. REPORT provided to the Committee, which was, according to
EARMAN's cover memorandum the ribbon copy, which was the onlv text of irs report in existence,q,

phrase in the above paragraph was crossed out. .S

BRECKENRIDGE indicated to the that this phrase was crossed out by RICHARD HELMS when
he read the report. Why?

SOURCE:

T.G. REPORT 1967, p. 36 STAPF:

Baron

FILE:

DATE: — 28.6.75


L& Aed ZALCozSEsPIO0a =seEos MH

— tion in the be run by @USTIN-OTDONNELT }

. a8 AS NO OBJECTION TO
CA ASSIFICATION AND/OR 1
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMEN!

AS SANITIZE? _———
24-37; YA/

DATES: CATEGORIES: TOP SECREL

|
|

OTPONNE LL a Char 36> EXECUTIVE ACTION
aeceaq/ ENUM, Me reo, WP on apy ¢
TUMUMBA, Patrice . Feb, el RRI
OCCURRENCE:

"The project name, ZRRIFLE, first appears in the files in May 1961, although the first re-
corded approval is dated 19 February 1962." (38)

“The EXECUTIVE ACTION +wemsyp- program came to be known as ZRRIFLE. Its principal asset was
an agent, QJWIN, who had been recruited earlier by sARNOH VER¢for use in a special opera-

r(ONPONNELe made a survey of the scene, decided he wanted no part in that assassination
attempt, and asked to be released ~- which BISSELL granted)." (38)

SOURCE: ~~ 1.G. REPORT 1967, p. 38 TAFF: Baron

FILE: DATE: 28.6.75



aq abeq ZeLeozze:PIood Gc6os BH

Bsectiont
CIAHAS NO

PON OAR:
Sain DOCUMENT

3 SSM, a
Cie)

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES:

CATEGORIES: op SECRET
| EXECUTIVE ACTION

Vel

Feb.,

OCCURRENCE:

"The project name, ZRRIFLE, first appears in the files in May 1961, although the first re-
corded approval is dated 19 February 1962." (38)

"The EXECUTIVE ACTION -tagoaye- program came to be known_as ZRRIFLE. Its principal asset was
an agent , QJIWIN, who had been recruited earlier by§ ARNOLD: sSELVER}for uge_in_a Special Opera~
. ' p

SOURCE: 1.G. REPORT 1967, p. 38

FILE: DATE:  28.6.75



6% abea zeceozze:pIo0a se6os AN

AS NO OBJECTION TO
CO HASSIFICATION AND/OR .
RELEASE. OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED Qe—

ha)

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
HARVEY, William

CATEGORIES:

EXECUTIVE ACTION

OCCURRENCE:

HARVEY testified that QJ.Win was an agent that he considered for possible use and used for a
Limited period through®ARNOLb Sth for the spotting, of individuals with criminal and under—
world connections in Europe for possible multipurpose use, none of whom were ever advised of
the use. (50) Or were ever used.

- When HARVEY-was asked if the multipurpose use included assassination, he stated that if
ne had ever been directly ordered to perform an assassination, he would have considered the
neople spotted by §.J.Winas possibilities. (50) He testified that before someone would have
actually been approached to carry out that operation, there would have been a lonp, period of

assessment and cross checks. As far as he knew, the particular spottinme mechanism never went
that far. So far_as HARVEY could recall K..L.Win was used only once in connection with an opera—
ttion in the (51) .

SOURCES HaRVEY iy a fa
FILE: af —p :

STAFF? Rhea

DATE: 30.6.75



oe ahegq zeLeozzeiPTooa sceoG AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

“AS SANITIZED
29-3-4¢
w 4
CNS

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

fr casa

DATES:

March 9, 1961

0 Was Subsequently
aatjmet with A.M. LASH to
LASH was in Mexico City to

in
to become a CIA asset known as A.M. LASH-1.* Qo
sound out his views on the Cuban Situation. M.
attend a '"leftist-sponsored'"' conference. (78).
The March 1961 meeting was inconclusive, but it led to oth
of which Project A.M.LASH was created. A.M. LASH-1 "re

er meetings out
peatedly insisted that

The IG REPORT concl
support for /A\M. LASII'S7
SOURCE:

both direct and indirect
dyn next card)

Napt. iA ee



Te ahegd -zeLeozze:PIo0d s60G AH

a
9
OBS AND! ANT
ans Niacro poco
Ae RES ge HE
POND yen
re ue
Pi CATEGORIES:
RIK Tir. Cone ‘ol. Leilford (CIN)
McGeorge Bundy Hr. Wilson ~ Parrot. Oct 9, 1962 Special Group (Augmented)
Apr. Johnson De. Charyk
thr. Gilpatric, lr. Scoville
Can. Taylor Col. Steakley a Wong s0se.
OCCURRENCE: 7 — ;

SGA discussed various possibilities of accomplishing reconnaissance of Cuba, ranging From
very low level coverage by tactical craft to high performance aircraft and drones. Over-
flights and peripheral flights were discussed.

It was agree that the t priority is one hi
the island, to he accompanied by all out lint ort. Depending on the results of this,
a number of siailar searches may be mounted. Fi mission was later approved by hisher
authority, but the decision on the second proposition left open.

iv performmee mission in the western part-ofW~

The entire package was to be discussed at the USIB, and by Chiefs on Wednesday, October 10th.

“ 7 OE . .
Memoranda for the record, 1 someeting of | parr: POY
‘TLR; Special Group Augmented and prepared by Thomas Parrot.
PLES Vl : . (02821) 6/29/75
