# 157-10004-10282

## Page 1

157-10004-10282

Date: 09/07/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10282

RECORDS SERIES :

CABLE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 201-106347

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

-ROM : CHIEF, WHD

TO :

TITLE :

OPERATIONAL - ROBERT A. MAHEU

DATE : 11/07/56

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

MAHEU, ROBERT

ROBERT MAHEU ASSOCIATES (RAMA)

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/07/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955

DooId: 32202171

Page 1

---

## Page 2

C-TE-6

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA -

DISPATCH NO.

(Specity hirt Sea Pouch)

GASSSEGRETT

TO

N COPY

FROM

746456 16192

Chiof, NH

GENERAL

SUBIECE SPECIFIC

Cperatical

Robert d. MAIZU

RAF s

501-106347

ACTION PRUITED: As set forth in Para 5.

suoject is besd of the "-s. firm known ar lo

Immodiato merior of allen r. IdES. Subjects tir

detocuite apercy which has cortects sith sommate of

schou insceiatsa and the

Ery forign contrios.

2. Dubjoot contacted a close firery of li

I Sapterber 1956 rolayed the fallowins

ation

to your Vealeuarters dosk

officer:

HAkEY was attroached by on old acruzintence need (ru) TokiR durina

to latter part oi raraist

•tember.

E: CHop is connected with

the inelington lan fir of Inaciant,

Hacker Dorsey, harilers of loga

Fatters for the loznisan torublic

to krited Statas.

macker told

Fatay that news cf his tillty a

a crocoter end investigator had rerched

the ears of ranuca be pold in the uninican Herablic and thet DE idA

wanted to know 1f TIEr would be

anorasted in coine to the Lominicon re

public to disress/peasable

eincant by the Leminicans as no inverticates

In I) tre

Gas 2E Jesus

rio zenez, and 2) in ascertaining to 1s barind

tho curru

Internet pil carnaim of discrediting the Conoralis-iro. Ac-

cording to

CoR, tr Mannicans kolieve that an alert, mall-tratred der

Ican such

isinu verd be able to hardlo such matters and that money rould

bo no protter.

as he wanted

that i?/is accopted the assiguent, fillel could spend as such

ccess.

3. Your desk afficer informed the kleera

official that certainly no horm

would result if l'DU rarely traveled to the Docinican Porablic to listen to

DE 1OXAs Lonerer, 1f he gid nake the tri?, he should take no cormitzents to 25

nu, and should miss a full roort to thog anofficial won he eventucily re

turned to lashington. In adultion, your dock officer told thei

offician trat

KalrU should try to revember ail names and dates tentioned

Cue and to ex-

CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM

50955

-2927-7-94

DocId: 32202171

Page 2

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE OFFi

suggestions of/

RI COPY

---

