# 157-10005-10157

## Page 1

1157-10005-10157]

FK Assassinatior Syste

dentification I on

Agency Inform: Lion

Date:

2/23/201

AGENCY: SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER: 157-10005-10157

RECORD SERIES: LETTER W/MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: KNOCHE, E.H.

TO: BELIN, DAVID W.

TITLE: TRANSMITTING CIA DOCUMEN TS

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/02/1975

12

ASSASSINATION PLOT AGAINS I CASTRO, FIDEL

303 COMMITTEE MEETING

CUBA

CASTRO

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

Consulted; 1A; 1B; 1C; Donor Rest icted

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/15/1994

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

BOX 435-7

v9.1

NW 47129 DooId: 32202347

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DISSEN/CON

S-E-C-R-E-T

OLLED DISSEM/NO DISSES AB

ID/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

would be honored only upon the presertation of evidence

that the three Cuban officials died it the hands of the

assassins connected with Cameron's centacts.

In early April 1964 Eliseo (omez Fernandez met

with Jose "Pepin" Bosch.,

Bosch agreed to advance $100,000

and Babun and his associates would arvance $2,500 for

expenses.

Julio Lobo Olavarria, a wealthy Cuban exile

in New York, subsequently agreed to the terms, provided

that his name was not involved.

Accordingly,

Babun gave

Cameron $2,500 on 25 April. Cameron then advised his

group, and

on 25 April he reported tat his group had

already called its man in Cuba and told him to proceed

as planned and that "their other man' would be heading

for Cuba shortly.

The final comment was l'we hope to

have some good news for you between :10 and 25 May."

Lobo planned to fly to Miami on 19 Miy to arrange for

the transfer of $100,000 to a safety deposit box, the

keys to which are to

be held jointly by Cameron and a

so1 fidant of Lobo.

The identities of the persos in the Cameron

group and how they plan to proceed with this mission

are not known.

' Babun's associates are reluctant to

make any unnecessary queries because

they have invested

$2,500 and because Cameron made it firly clear at the

beginning that the Mafia was involvel.

Cameron re-

vealed during the negotiations that is contact was a

police officer in the St. Louis, Missouri, Vice Squad

who was about to retire and who has numerous connections

in the Mafia:

Caneron implied that 'the other man" in

question is in Spain.

Cameron knows that he could be

indicted for conspiracy and that if there is any

treachery on his part, Babun and his associates would

not hesitate to sink his ship, the MV CAXIAN HOPE.

In late May 1964 a prominent Cuban exile who

spoke with Jose "Pepin" Bosch reported that Teofilo

Babun and Eliseo Gomez had a plan unfer way to assas-

Sinate Fidel Castro for the payment of $150,000. Bosch

claimed that he had committed himself to furnish

$50,000 and that he was hoping he could get the balance

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE •

01662

S-E-C-R-E-T

NH 47129 DocId: 32202347 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

ESCY DISSEN/CUNTROLL D DISSES/NO DISSES ABOAD, -ACKGROUND USE ONZX

the money fron the United States Governient or fron

other sources.

Bosch indicated that le believes that a

quick change for the better in the Cupan situation can

be brought about only by the physical elimination of

Fidel Castro and that his elimination is well worth

$150,000.

In pursuing his attenpts to raise an additional

$100,000, Bosch is planning to ask Julio Lobo to con-

tribute

at least $50,000.

•Richard Helms

Deputy Di:ector for Plans

Note:

It is requested that this Agency be Informed of

any action contemplated in regard to the persons

mentioned in this report before such action is

Initlated.

• • 4::::

4

SE OFFICE

01660

tror

HE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE:

S-E-C-RE-T

EIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEN/NO DISSEN ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ANLY

NH 47129 DocId:32202347 Page 3

---

## Page 4

S'-E-C-R-=-I

EIGN DISSEN/CONTROLI DISSES/NO DISSES ABROAD, CRGROUND USE ONLiK

WH/ SA/INTEL/

• UFGA-15954;

WAVE-7129 (IN-93714) (10 dune 1964)

Distribution:

2 - DD/P

I. - C/FI

- INT/RC

- C/WH

- DC/ YH/ SA

- WH/SA/Intel

2 - .WH/SA/Intel/R

1 - WH/SA/MOB

1

. - WH/SA/EOB

Note:

Copy furnished Mr. Hughes for secretary Rusk.

Copy furnished General Carroll for Secretary McNamara.

- 6

01665

S-E-C-R-E-T

EIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

NN 47129 DocId: 32202347 Page 4

---

