# 157-10004-10240

## Page 1

157-10004-10240

Date: 09/01/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10240

RECORDS SERIES :

CABLE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : FBI, NEW YORK

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

VICTOR DOMINDADOR ESPINOSA HERNANDEZ

DATE : 06/02/65

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :

ESPINOSA, VICTOR DOMINDADOR HERNANDEZ

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

CASTRO ASSASSINATION PLOTS

CUBELA, ROLANDO

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, 2, 4, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/01/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 50955

DocId: 32202129

Page

1

---

## Page 2

CORTAN

INFORMATION

ALL

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHEAWISE

SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

!!is

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

SSCI BOX #

377-

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

:C7

AS SANITIZED

4803 RAD/9C4

21 Jul 94

CO:

2-10-44

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

FBI NEW YORK

EXCEPT BRACKETE

Gma: 2-2-94

Its use is limited in nifin of far dissemi

nel without the express approval of the FBI

your Commi''e and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

4- 30URGENT 5-2-65 JLW

TO DIRECTOR /41 ..2-1821

ENCODED

12-18-193

FROE NEW YORMARASADOR RETION TO

Classified by 9803RDO KSR

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

Declassify on: OADR

VICTOR DENT: ADOR ESPINOSA SEVANDEZ, NEUPERTY INTÉRSE, IS - CUBA.

1223198

ESPINOSA APPEARED AT THE NEW YORK OFFICE ON JUNE TWO, SIXTYFIVE

I: THE COMPANY OF INS INVESTIGATOR EDWARD KAVAZANJIAN AND FURNISHED THE

FOLLOWING INFORMATION..•

ESPINOSA RETURNED TO NEW YORK ON FIVE TVENTYNINE LAST AFTER SPENDI

TWENTYSIX DAYS IN PARIS, WHERE HE WAS IN CONTACT WITH INDIVIDUALS

INVOLVED IN PLOT TO ASSASSINITE FIDEL CASTRO AND LEADING CUSAN

GOVERNMENT PERSONALITIES.

ESPINOSA SAID THAT NE HAD RECEIVED A MESSAGE

TO MEET IN FRANCE WITH ROLANDO CUBELA, WHO IS A LIFE LONG FRIEND OF

ESPINOSA AND IS ALLEGED TO BE THE MAIN FIGURE IN THE PLOT.

CUBELA

IS IDENTICAL WITH FORNER MAJOR ROLANDO LO CUBELA Y SSGADES, UNO IS

AN INTIMATE FRIEND: OF FIDEL CASTRO. ESPINOSA FURTHER STATED THAT

THE CONFERRED IN PARIS FOR ABOUT TEN DAYS WITH ALBERTO BLANCO, WHO IS

CONNECTED WITH THE CUBAN FORET! MINISTRY AND WAS ON MY

INSPECTION

,00.

TOUR OF THE

CUBAN ENBASSIES: AND

CONSULATES ABROAD.

ESPINOSA SAID THAT

¡HE HAD NO PRIOR KNOULEDGE OF THIS PLOT AND VENT REGEIVED FROM

END PAGE ONE:

FAR ELIT VOR THE DRECTOR

MIBEVEWEGARY JEBINONS

TARI; MORGE

TO JU:

JUN 9: 1965

_ ONS/>24%

010

C6 105-1:1119; 1050

HW 50955 DocId:32202129 Page 2

SECRET

¿RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

---

## Page 3

SECRET

SSCI BOX # 3771-

PAGE TWO

URGING OF CUBELA, WHO HAS BEEN A LIFE-LONG FRIEND OF HIS. HE ALSO

STATED THAT INVOLVED IN THE PLOT VAS MAUỐR JUAL ALMEIDASBOSQUE.

SPINOSA SAID THAT CUBELA HAD RESIGNED FROM THE ARMED FORCES OF CUBA

AND IS NOW PRACTICING MEDICINE AT THE CALIXTO GARCIA HOSPITAL IN

HAVANA AND HAS A HOME ADJACENT TO FIDEL CASTRO-S AT VARADERO

BEACH. ESPINOSA ALSO ADVISED THAT HE WAS IN SPAIN FOR ONLY ABOUT TUNTY

I HOURS, WHERE HE CONTACTED OTHER CUBAN EXILES AND LEARNED THAT CIA DUICEN

E? INHO IS INACHARGE,

PID CIA OTICUST MADRID, VAS COGNIZANI TO A(S)

CERTAIN DEGREE OF THIS PLOT, BUT THAT IHE CUBANS DID NOT TRUST '3:

E. )BECAUSE THEY CLAIMED HE HAD BECNCOMPROWISED

EY A CUBAN GIRL,

WHOS

NICKNAME WAS "TOTA", WHO HAD BEEN SENT FROM HAVANA FOR THE SPECIFIC

PURPOSE OF GETTING IN CONTACT WITH

THIS. INDTVIDUAL IS (#(4)

POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH

CIA DEFERE

CIA KIT RESINTATIVE LAST

1 TO ME IN MARRIDO

ESPINOSA ADVISED THAT THE PLOT CALLS FOR THE ASSASSINATION OF

FIDEL CASTRO, RAUL CASTRO, ERNESTO "CHE" GUEVARA AND RAMIRO VALDES.

LITHE ASSASSINATION OF THESE INDIVIDUALS IS TO TAKE PLACE IN PUDLIC SO

THAT EVERYONE CAN SEE THAT THE LEADERS HAVE BEEN KILLED. THE PLOITERS

¡HOPE TO SSIZE THE RADIO STATION AND CALL FOR MERICAN HELP. ESPINOSA

¡SAID THAT CUBELA AND OTHERS ASSOCIATED WITH THE PLOT DESIRE TO KNOW

END PAGE TWO

SECRET

RECEIVED FROM

MAY i0 1918

DO J

NW 50955

DooId:32202129

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

SSCI BOX #*

37143.-

PAGE THREE

WHETHER OR NOT THE UNITED STATES WOULD HELP IF THIS PLOT WAS SUCCESS-

FUL AND IF THE UNITEO STATES WOULD BE READY AT A MOMENT-S NOTICE TO

GIVE THIS ASSISTANCE AS THE PLOTTERS MAY ONLY BE ABLE TO HOLD THE

GOVERNMENT FOR A DAY OR TWO: ESPINOSA SPECIFICALLY REQUESTED TO

BE PUT IN CONTACT WITH A REPRESENTATIVO OF CIA, HO WAS THOROUGHLY

FAMILIAR WITH THE CUBAN SITUATION AND COGNIZANT OF THE INDIVIDUALS

INVOLVED IN THE PLOT. ESPINOSA STATED THAT TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE

AND THAT THIS PLOT WILL COME OFF IN THE NEAR FUTURE AND INDICATED

•THAI A STRONG POSSIBILITY WOULD BE JULY TWENTY SIXTH, WHEN ALL THE

LEADERS WOULD BE TOGETHER AT THE ANNUAL JULY TWENTY SIXTH CELESRATION

L'IN HAVANA.

. THE BUREAU IS REQUESTED TO FURNISH THIS INFORHATION TO.

CIA

AND ASCERTAIN 'WHETHER OR NOT CIA DESIRES TO TALK TO ESPINOSA AT THE

EARLIEST POSSIBLE TIME AND AT A PLACE SUITABLE TO THEM. THE BUREAU

IS REQUESTED TO OBTAIN A DEFINITE ANSHER FROM CIA AND FURNISH CIA-

ANSHER TO THE NEW YORK OFFICE BY NOON, INS TENGE SIXIRFIVE SO

THAT ESPINOSA CAN BE ADVISED OF CIA-S DECISION.

SND PAGE THREE

RECEIVED FROM

DOJ

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32202129 Page 4

---

## Page 5

-SECRET telle

SSCI BOX 3

Liar

377-

PAGE FOUR

ESPINOSA IS RESIDING AT FOUR ONE FIVE EAST FIFTY SECOND STREET,

NEW YORK CITY, AND CAN BE CONTACTED AT TELEPHONE NUMBERS HA ONE DAS!

SEVEN EIGHT SEVEN FIVE OR TE TWO DASH NINE SIX FOUR TWO.

SND

RPP

FBI WASH DC

CC-MR. SULLIVAN

NW 50955 DocId:32202129 Page 5a:

SECRET

RECEIVED FROM

• MAY 40 1916

DOJ

CALLED:

"Pin.c-

---

