# 157-10014-10207

## Page 1

157-10014-10207

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

717/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

SSCIA

157-10014-10207

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

07-M-112

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

SSCIA

DATE: 06/06/1975

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/31/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: CC Box 252

N9.1

HW 50955

DooId: 32423595

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date :

Page

08/08/95

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014-10207

RECORDS SERIES

:MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 07-M-112

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

: 06/06/75

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS : CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : SUMMARY

CLASSIFICATION

: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

:

POSTPONED

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/20/99

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : CC BOX 252

IN FULI

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 -DocId: 32423595

Page 2

---

## Page 3

INTERVLEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

Page

10f 2

Conversation with VICTOR MARCHETTI on June 6, 1975

Attendees: SELECT COMMITTEE: Senator Schweiker

Elliot Maxwell

I met with Victor and Senator Schweiker for approximately one

hour and a half.

Victor made the following points.

1. It was not unlikely that people would have failed to tell

with a mandate from JFK to change it and announced that he was

tween 300 and 500. This and the fact that he was an outsider

created a great deal of hostility. Given this there might be

back-channeling by people in DDO.

2. We might find out what McCone knew by asking Pat Carter who

was his deputy or Lyman Kirkpatrick who was then Executive-Dir-

ector-Controller.

Kirkpatrick left when Admiral Raborn was made

Kirkpatrick wanted to be DCI but it became clear when Helms

was named deputy that he could not expect to be advanced.

He was

bitter when he left the Agency, particularly at Helms, and people

in the Agency were very concerned when they found out that he was

writing a book. He did submit it and they were able to negotiate

changes in it.

(We might want to check to see if the origins of

the Kirkpatrick-Helms dispute were in the early days. of the OPC

3. In the area of assassinations, Victor suggested that they were

assassinations which took place which were not of foreign leaders.

He cited the Marasco case involving a Green Beret in Vietnam and

suggested that in many cases, agents were given what is described

"local option". He thought that Jim Angleton might know if

any of these options were taken.

In addition to the assassinations we were already looking at,

be felt that we might look at the assassination of General Schneider

in Chile.

4. In regard to project MMUTUAL, he raised several questions.

These included:

(a)

Where did the money come from (the retirement fund, the

loan fund, credit union, escrow funds) ;

(b) On what basis were decisions made to invest it (was

material from the research done for cover used or was information

derived from foreign intelligence gathering used) .

He suggested that two former PPB officials, Bryan Engel

(Bagle?) now in the white House Office of Telecommunications and

Frank Walters, who might still be at CIA might be knowledgable

about MHMUTUAL. He also suggested talking to John Clark who sat

FILE:

NVENTORIEL

3N-5/2444

X1-0-2

IX-C-IC0A1

HW 50955 DocId:32423595 Page 3

---

## Page 4

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

Page 2 of 2

on the board, Larry Houston who chaired the board, and a Mr.

Allen who was in the Office of Economic Research.

We also discussed the Domestic Operations Division. He

suggested we talk to Seymor Russell who deaded it and Wally

ampshire who helped to set up DOD with Tracy Barnes.

He thought

OD had grown out of the Domestic Operations Branch which was set

up in the early 1950s' to handle problems involving refugees from

eastern Europe.

FILE:

NH

50955

DooId: 32423595

Page

---

