157-10002-10087

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORDS SERIES :

TRANSCRIPTR
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

SSCIA
157-10002-10087

Date:09/30/93
Page:1

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:

TITLE

TESTIMONY OF SAMUEL

“HALPERN

DATE : 06/18/75

PAGES : 89
SUBJECTS =

CUBA

e ASSASSINATION
CASTRO
MAFIA
SPECIAL GROUP
BISSELL,
LANSDALE, EDWARD
HARVEY
OPERATION MONGOOSE
Z0GBEY
POISON
AMLASH
5412 COMMITTEE
ZRRIFLE

TASK FORCE W
MAHEU, ROBERT

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
T

REFERRED

Pp

09/30/93

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Bak 50955 DocId: 32281927 Page 1


Date:09/30/93
Page:2
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

@ IDENTIFICATION FORM
COMMENTS :

Box 245 !
Folder 9

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

YW 50955 DocId:32281927 Page 2


Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL,

410 First Street, $.€., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

14

1s |

16

17

18

19

20

el

22

25

24

25

q

TOP SECRET

The Chairman. The hearing will come to order.

I would like to ask Mr. Schwarz if he would give us a
{

brief synopsis of what we intend to question our witness
|

about this morning.

Mr. Schwarz. The witness this morning will only be a
single witness. He is Mr. Samuel Halpern. He was in the
Far East, and I have now found out he was involved in (ie
some alleged killing of an agent in
Tailand, which are collateral matters that we may want to
take up with him at the end.

But he came back here in the fall of 1961 and was in-
structed as assistant to get into the Cuban matter. And
he will testify that he was told that they would proceed
to overthrow the Castro government, and that there were no
holds barred.

He will then describe the way in|whch they worked
with the Special Group.

The Chairman. What was Halpern's |/position?

Mr. Schwarz. Halpern's position was as Executive
Assistant to Harvey. And Harvey, you will’ remember, was the
man that was actually in charge of the /Cuban position.

The Chairman. When are we going to get Harvey?

Mr. Schwarz. He is coming next |Wednesday morning.

We are going to get some of this|same conflict between

the no-holds-barred testimony, which in his mind I guess he

TOP SECRET

DocId:32281927 Page 3



! TOP SECRET | :

; 1 Mr. Halpern. Yes, sir. :
3 i
@ a 2 Mr. Schwarz. Who else was present at that meeting?
i 5 Mr. Halpern. Ghose. Zogbey..! He was my branch
i 4 chief. |
5 i Mr. Schwarz. Is he alive today, or is he dead?
6 | Mr. Halpern. He died last year.
7 | Mr. Schwarz. Approximately when’ in the fall of 1961
8 | did that meeting take place?
9 | Mr. Halpern. About the middle of October 1961.
10 Mr. Schwarz. What instructions were you given by Mr.

1l Bissell at tht meeting?
12 Mr. Halpern. Mr. Bissell said he had recently -- and

13 he didn't specificy the date or the time -- he had recently

WARD & PAUL

14 | been chewed out in the Cabinet Room of the White House by

15 borh the President and the Attorney General for, as he put
|

16 it, sitting on his ass and not doing anything about getting

17 rid of Castro and the Castro regime. |His orders to both

! ‘i
Zogbey| and to me were to plan for an operation to

18

19 accomplish that end.
20 Mr. Schwarz. Was any content put;into the term
21 "get rid of", or was that the term that was used, and only

22 that term?

410 First Street, S.€., Washington, D.C, 20003

23 Mr. Halpern. To the best of my recollection, that was
@ 24 it. There was no limitation of any kind. Nothing was for-
25 bidden, and nothing was withheld. And ithe objective was to

TOP SECRET | e

HW 50955 DocId:32281927 Page 4



w

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
nD

WARD & PAUL
Pp
ol

1?

185

19

410 Fyat Street, S.£., Washington, D.C. 20003
nD
0

TOP SECRET |
|

remove Castro and his regime.

Mr. Schwarz. And did you talkj about tactics at all
in that meeting, or was it just a general discussion about
getting organized. H
Mr. Halpern. Just a general discussion as to what we would

do, how we would proceed, and what we|would need. And at

that point I had no idea how many people were left on the stata

|
in the branch only having been on the Job a day or a day and

i H
a half. | |
Mr. Schwarz. Shorly after that time did you get put in

contact with a general?
i

Mr. Halpern. Yes, sir. General Lansdale.

Mr. Schwarz. And what was his act icn when you were
introduced to him?

Mr. Halpern. Both {Mrs Zogbey) and I were introduced
to him as the new chief of Operations for a government-wide
effort to accomplish the removal of eaeees and the Castro
regime. This effort was to include not |only CIA but the
Department of State and the Departmentjof Defense. And
General Lansdale was to be the Chief of Operations for that
outfit.

Mr. Schwarz. And did you brief him about Cuba or did

he brief you about the operation, or what was the nature of that?

Mr. Halpern. No, we briefed him first in the old

Situation Room, what used to called the Ibell Building, which

TOP SECRET

HW 50955 DocId:32281927 Page 5


wu

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
0

S

10

11

12 |

13

WARD & PAUL,

15

17
ig
19
‘ 20
fo}
A 22 |
: 23
@: x
? 25

14)

12

TOP SECRET |

Mr. Halpern. It wasn't a matter/of General Lansdale's
being in charge, or the Attorney General being in charge,
nobody objected to General Lansdale Peerriie to the Attorney
General.

It was a matter of whether this would be done through
the normal chain of command, or whether we would actually be
under the General's direct command. H

Mr. Schwarz. But it still is a chracterization, you
were dealing with organization and bureaucracy?

Mr. Halpern. That is right. And drafting papers.

Mr. Schwarz. Drafting papers to do what?

Mr. Halpern. To try to get organized in terms of how
we would accomplish the objective.

Mr. Schwarz.Did any of those papers that you drafted
in those early stages include any reference to assassination
as a device to accomplish the objective?

Mr. Halpern. No, sir.

Mr. Schwarz. Now, did Mr. Helms enter the picture in
the latter part of December 1961?

Mr. Halpern. That is correct. |

Mr. Schwarz. Describe how he came into the picture.

Mr. Halpern. To my knowledge, fi yl described to

me a meeting he had been at at the Director's morning staff
meeting -~- this is Mr. McCone's morning staff meeting -- in

which Mr. McCone, almost in terms of a bombshell for the

TOP SECRET

HW 50955 DocId:32281927 Page 6



Phone (Area 202) 944-6000
0

10

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
1?
18
19
20
21
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

TOP SECRET

13
group at the meeting, stated that Mr. Helms would henceforth
be -- the words were, his man on Cuba.|This was something
that nobody in the room apparently had|/any inkling of, and

particularly Mr.Helms, nor

The Chairman. May I ask you to repeat that?

I am sorry, I just didn't catch it. |
i

Mr. Halpern. At a meeting sometime in December 1961,

|
which was the morning staff meeting that the Director held, and

Ce Zeapeyv) was present -- i |

Mr. Schwarz. But you were not?

Mr. Halprrn I was not, I got this from GieRiRZoG
the Director, Mr. McCone, announced that Mr. Helms would be
his man on Cuba, Mr. Helms would then)be the Chief of Operatia
for the Deputy Director of Plans, and Mr. Bissell was in the
room as the DDP.
Mr. Helms had no inkling of this before the meeting,

and so stated to (MHRRZeGibe, jy and even asked iinet SGbyA if he had

had any inkling before the meeting.

éy. told me that he had none whatsoever.
Mr. Schwarz. Did Mr. Helms then come and visit your

new organization and tell you to make some changes?

iis office and loo

SY!

Mr. Halpern. Yes. He came to

at the list of officers, male and female, who were still

working in the branch. Most of them were the remnants of the

people from the old Bay of Pigs operation who had not yet been |

reassigned. TOP SECRET

HW 50955 DocId:32281927 Page 7

ed
1

|



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

3
&
J
a
¢
&
-
&
3
a
a

HW 50955

i

a

1o |

ll

13

14

15

16

17

18 |

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

30

involved in this operation? That was the first reference I

recall to a female operative.

Mr. Schwarz. There was no such previous evidence.

Mr. Halpern. We had a number of female officers! and

still do, in our branches. And there were some in the |Cuban

branch and the Cuban task force.

Senator Huddleston. What types of activities did they

participate in?

Mr. Halpern. Oh, recruting of agents, the handling

of agents, disseminating reports, preparing propaganda guid-
|

ances, preparing papers for a special group as appropriate,

doing the work of any other officer.

Senator Huddleston. Can you name:one or suggest one
i

|
that was heavily involved in the assassination attempt?

Mr. Halpern. Oh, I don't know of|any in the assassina-

tion attempt per se. |

Senator Huddleston. You don't know of any?

Mr. Halpern. No, sir.
Senator Huddleston. Thank you.

The Chairman. Senator Mondale? |
{

Senator Mondale. I am sorry I cam e in late, Mr. Hal-

pern, and missed some of your testimony.

As I came in you

:
were saying that orders came from somewhere to get off your

ass.

Mr. Halpern. Yes, sir. Mr.Bissell told (M

TOP SECRET —

DocId:32281927 Page 8



| TOP SECRET

37
8 |
3 1 cers whose objective would be to plan for the overthrow of
3
® g 2 the Castro regime. :
g 5 Mr. Smothers. Was it your understanding that these
2 4 i plans were to extend to assassination? |
5 4 Mr. Halpern. That word was not jused, sir. But no
6 || holds were barred, and we had no limitation. !
7 | Mr. Smothers.Let me ask you it another way. What was
8 | your understanding of what Mr. Bissell jhad been told to do
9 | by the President and the Attorney General? |
10 | Mr. Halpern. To get rid of Castro and the Castro regime

ll on the Island of Cuba.
12 Mr. Smothers. Did Mr. Bissell convey to you the idea

that that included killing Castro?

WARD & PAUL,
Pv
a

14 Mr. Halpern. The subject never came up per se.
15 | Mr. Smothers. What did you come away from that meeting

'
16 || expecting to do?

17 Mr. Halpern. We were very hard put to come upwwith
18) any real ideas. We didn't know what to |do, frankly. And we

19 went back ~- one thing we both agreed on, both

20 I, is that we were not going to come up with a piece of
21 paper which said this was going to be easy or could be done

22 | overnight, or could be done with mirrors.

23 The Chairman. Did you come away after your conversation

Street, S-€., Wathington, 0.¢. 20003

24 with Mr. Bissell with the idea that he had instructed you

25 to come up with a plan of some kind designed to overthrow,
i i

TOP SECRET —

HW 50955 DocId:32281927 Page 9


\
TOP SECRET |
|

66

later.
The Chairman. I would like to take this and several

other questions up with the committee, one of which deals

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

with the question of the August recess; And I want to

an

| confer with you on that, too.

6 | How many more questions do you have? i
7 | Mr. Schwarz. Instead of asking the other questions I will
8 ask whether he knows anything about them, and we could bring :
9 him back later if he does. |
16 Do you know anything about[/ | |
1 |
f St
; 12 | |
3 lisreseesaseiseaa ;
@ : 13 | Mr. Halpern. Yes, sir. |
° :
§ 14 | Mr. Schwarz. We will bring you back on that. '
\
15 The Chairman. Can we get that done now?
16 Mr. Schwarz. Such BRESEI) was made gi
|
17 | Mr. Halpern. I don't know where it was made, sir,
18 but I know it was made. |
i
: 19 Mr. Schwarz. It was made in the 0.8.2 I
8 i
20 Mr. Halpern. As far as I know it was. |
3 21 Mr. Schwarz. And was that done| under your direction?
H 22 Mr. Halpern. Well, it was done at the Far East Division
3 23 || request,and I was the one who did the negotiating with the |
3 i |
@ : 24 Office of Security. : |
2 25 Mr. Schwarz. And was the plan ‘that { ll |

TOP SECRET

HW 50955 DocId:32281927 Page 10


ne (Area 202) 544-6000
Gt

13

4
>
z
Fy
“
a
©
«
3

14

15

20

21

22

25

treet, $.£., Wasningion, B.C. 20003

24

25

- TOP SECRET

67

Mr. Halpern. No, sir, that was not the plan at all.
i |
Mr. Schwarz. What was the plan? | |
: | i
Mr. Halpern. The plan was to have (Su viidelmeecom,

which we could|use in the propaganda |

i activity!

Mr. Schwarz. In short, it was &% which was

designed to put

/

Mr. Halpern. And,

\ —
n an undesirable light,

therefore,

Senator Mondale. How was (RSE EN m? supposed to get to

|
The original plan was

Mr. Halpern. It wasn't fa

} it in propaganda leaflets, and pamphlets,

to use

eiips:

and things like that, just .

Mr. Schwarz. Who authorized that?

Mr. Halpern. (it
TOP SECRET

who was then Division Chief.
|
{ |

i

‘NW 50955 DocId:32281927 Page 11


Prone (Area 202) 444-6000

WARD & PAUL

20003

treet, $.£., Washington, D.C

HW 50955

21

22

25

24

25

Docla:

know.

end of it.

distribute it P

—TOP SECRET

68

Mr. Schwarz. ' Do you know if any higher authority

authorized it?

Mr. Halpern. Not offhand, no, sir, personally I don't
i
|

Mr. Schwarz. And was it done, or was it turned off?

I mean, the eeu

erextaken? :

Mr. ven}, and that was the

= us
if
|

i
Mr. Schwarz. And Mr. Maheu was used to accomplish it?

Mr. Halpern. I have no idea whatsoever.

Mr. Schwarz. And were [then

Mr. Halpern. No, they were not.
Mr. Schwarz. Why not?

i
Mr. Halpern. We didn't have any proper outlets to

| get it done.

i

Mr. Schwarz. You had (Creaetin, but you had no way to

Mr. Halpern. gNot

Mr. Schwarz. |

Mr. Halpern. The name is brand new to me, sir.

i
Mr. Schwarz. Do you know dae about thd

32281927

Mr. Halpern. No, sir. i

Mr. Schwarz,

TOP SECRET

Page 12



TOP SECRET
| 69
3 i
g 1 |
& 2 ||
&
i : 7 I
ES 7 Mr. Halpern. That I participated? No, sir.
ai Mr. Schwarz.
F
5 fi q
i
6 i Mr. Halpern. No, sir. I was only in Bangkok, I think,
7 I once in my life.
iH
8 | Mr. Schwarz. That doesn't ring a bell at all?
i
9 i Mr. Halpern. No, sir.
I
i
10 4 Mr. Schwarz. Do you know about any other killings?
i
ll Mr. Halpern. No, sir.
f
@ oF 12 The Chairman. Any other questions?
3
2 13 | Senator Schweiker. I just want to say, Mr.Chairman, that
7 |
Fa ‘ :
By 14 } or would like to compliment the witness for some very clear and:
| 1
15 impartial answers, instead of the partial amnesia that we have
16 run into lately. !
17 | And I think your kind of candor is very helpful to us
1g | in this committee to do the job. And I think it was very
!
i 19 | refreshing to hear some clear-cut specific recommendations of
3
a ‘ ©
20 | what did or did not happen. I just want to thank you.
3 ' '
3 21 The Chairman. I agree.
2 i
3 22 | Thank you very much. i
ri H
i 23 | If there are no further questions,I think that completes
@ 24 the interrogation.
é
: 25 (The witness left the hearing room.)

HW 50955 DocId:32281927 Page 13

