157-10005-10256;

AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :

TO:

TITLE

TRANSCRIPT/RECORD OF
DATE :

PAGES
SUBJECTS

zp

HK
Date:10/05/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

SSCIA CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

157-10005-10256 DECLASSIFICATION Ax/O/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZEO

PROCEEDINGS/EXHIBITS

07/09/75
135

TESTIMONY AND EXHIBITS BY TAYLOR, GENERAL MAXWELL

(| EXHIBITS 1-11

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS
BOX 259-16

oo

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT/TRANSCRIPT
T

REFERRED

Pp

10/05/93

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 Docld:32202446 Page 1


AC

ITY

eq PEETOTTE PToO0d 66

€aribbean Admission Center,
p¥-~Locka, Florida, fully
itivated by 15 March 1942,

Periodic intelligence esti4
ates, as required by progress
operations.

iR OPERATIONS

Continue negotiating for
< a¥help in contaminating
rorlative lubricant,

LLIGENCE OPERATIONS

Two teams of agents dis-
tthed te Cuba,

——

farch 1962 {co

PURPOSE

To collect intelligence required for the
operations, to identify and earmark in-
telligence assets as refugees arrive,
and te provide security against Com-
munist agent operationa,:"" ©

To up-date NIE 85-62, so that current
estimates can be considered at national
policy levels.

Te cripple Cuba's rail transportation.

16 - 31 March 1962

To collect intelligence,

SENSITIVE

ney | (

CONSIDERATIONS

This operation, in response to early recommendation
as essential by the Chief of Operations, is moving at
utrnost speed to become fully active by 15 March, with

a new building completed and occupied, and with a

.staff of 43 at work, Operations commenced 15 February
and, as of 9 March, 33 people were active at the Center,
(CIA responsibility, with support by Defense, Justice,
State, USLA.}

As the operations develop, there will be both increased
intelligence collection and a need for ag current an In-
telligence Estimate as the U.S. can produce meaningfu.
It is likely that a more informal methed of producing an
Intelligence Estimate for use at the national level (than
now governing the issuance of NIE's} may have to be

followed. CLA is new publishing daily intelligence sum-
maries on Cuba and is planning a bi “monthly or weekly
report summing up intelligence for this purpose. (CIA
responsibility, with suppori of others as required, }

. Stance is required to undertake a successful
sabotage of Cuban locomotives, throligh contaminating

lubricants. It is expected that a minimum of 3 months
is required before Ipcomotives in Cuba start breaking
down, once the contaminant is introduced.

oL.25

One tear of 4 and one team of 3 agents. Both teams include
personnel who have had resistance training and some past

experience,

ms marked by asterisk were approved by Special Group (Augmented), 5 March 1962

PPO Cm man ener



2 [Ts —_ _
i
@
o
I
<7
ia
=]
i“
o
8
4
a .
8 > TOP SECRET SENSITIVE 5 ‘
i C . 16 = 31 March 1962 (cont:} — ( :
in
ACTIVITY PURPOSE CONSIDERATIONS
Fee ed eee EE
% .

Hstablish 2 additional third-
Gguntry resident agents in
Cuba. .

To collect intelligence.

By 31 March, have 105 agents
selected and 50 agents trained.

To ready agent operations
wb

* Develop intelligence potential
of Cuban “colonies” in U, S.

To exploit the intelligence possi-
bilities of former residents of
Cuba (including U.S. citizens} now
in the United States.

* Develop additional interroga-
don centers in cther areas by
31 March 1962,

To collect intelligence in a Latin
atmosphere, at different levels than
new seem possible in the continental
U.S,, to spot additional intelligence
assets and to provide security
against Communist agent operations,

IER OPERATIONS

Yone,

llems marked by asterisk were approved by Special Group (Augmented),

PA ee en rane

‘Possible future use in communications and support.

Elfectiveness and numbers are dependent upon purpose
of recruitment, nature of training, and pelicy decisions
controlling these factors. WU the recruitment and train-
ing are for resistance activities, the task of recruit-
ment and training will be much less difficult than if
they are limited to intelligence -collection purposes
only,

There are "colonies" in Washington, D.C., and other
U.S. cities which are "little Cuhas." Family, Church,
and business interests proveke unusual personal ties
inside Cuba for some of these residents; a teal potential
exists fox collection of intelligence net otherwise avail+
able. {FBI support and coordination is basic in this
effort.)

As Opa-Locka becomes fully activated, CIA will activate
other interrogation centers as promptly as feasible. A.
center is being activated Negotiations with
‘local authorities are being undertaken to activate aang,
if possible,

are being sur-
responsibility with sup-

F°POSETEIES Centers,
port by others as necessary.)

oc 293

5 March 1962,

PROPERTY oF
THE WHITE HOUSE oF Fi,

”
