# 157-10008-10130

## Page 1

157-10008-10130|

JFK Assassination: System.

Identification I orm

•Date:

2/23/201

Agency Informition

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

SSCIA

157-10008-10130

MEMORANDUM

62-109060

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

SSCIA

FROM:

SAC, CHICAGO (62-6115)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE: ENCLOSING PHOTO OF HARRY DEAN

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS

05/03/1967

7

DOCUMENT TYPE.

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

BUREAU LETTER TO CHICAGO 4-17-67.

DEAN, HARRY

LA PUENTE, CALIFORNIA

LOS ANGELES

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

Redact

03/29/1994

Box 466-13

v9.1

NH 47129

DocId: 32203638

Page 1

---

## Page 2

160-110

Police Dori ctheir

I diSCabing a religious

incocont and

usscore laaguage.

IS4S.

He was aise wich 150.

For+

in bezenbor, 1900, Dal again Caried this Oifico io

eport that ia had been residing in retroit for the pest wo

wonths.

di that time no said le

rerused to divulge his cocai 5965055.

nas laving

in Chicago but io

De continued to

teiephorically

contact

this office on sovoral occasions cati.

June, ¿901,

Ne furnished inior..ton concorning Cuban nationais

coonceced

with the

25ch of juig lorenont und oin local persous

conneüted with the IPCC..

He was last contacies bi two agents of the Chicago

Office on June 7, 1561,

at thic!

time be was told that this

office cid

not cesire his assistance.

2.4

Former

SOURCE

Dacv-sed ja dugust, 1960, that DEu:

was a white mala, age about 25 (in 1550), stocky build, and

black hair.

While DEAN voluntarily furnished information to the

Chicago Cifice over a period of

neariy a joar, ne was neve.

considerad a PSI or informant by this ciiice.

this cifice.

On Decenber 7, 1960, LaY Dali telephonically contacted

He advised that is had bcen in Contact with

1il0 St. michrols, Cicago, LItinois,

telephone

MOCT 1 46445.

he stated tiente

mid originally met StASICk

in Cuse this pest sunnci.

ilo said that SingECk invitad rin ic

a necking

his home on

the arcing of üccences 7, 1950 a:

7a.n. Doil stated that sais is

::cating Of a Fair. Play ior

Cusa Comittoo loPCo) group aü Eins no intendoi to attend.

Ho said that fron thory Sinocch trired it is his belied that

this group

is trying co out due viitt mroups ic the FDSC arc

thus cause & solit in the troug.

to aiso said tat Stabbed

nado nontion of nIcitor that no dscsivod from ti22? which

starea that rois STil c1 Dotios: tic been moved into a positica

Sinitar 10 that of a regional dirosioi of the 20rCC.

-2 -

NW 47129

DocId: 32203638 Page 2

---

## Page 3

decondard

2.4

......: 6...

11OiG

Annisted in

once the carded c

.:.:

iCit Conit

he Calaus ended of tid

wes hold on

J0S Basso?, 1726 st.

's denost, Chiergo.

this group docided tut an organizaiconed acocia;

monade told or january o,

MIXI MEE.

•we soloctor to do in Crunce pithe prograa,

S4a2308

wim assignon the duty to mire to annoureeonts printed

sy 2a0k Curley and mediod, and tally Dead vas to call diGus

no sold or pusscd out tree do clarge.

Темроїсіу

Branch Oficors,

coe., Crairren,

corrobary and Laucational

Dinöctor nic to to glociod and

throud grand will coilcct dues

fro: now naxbors.

Daring this meetsrs,

mined Coad was operbeard to

stato taù just before he icit

Indiana, ha had boch

= icck had bech trrown trough his ligador rod be was

beacon! "hard tine" dy the cowastcosis.

he said that ho

is prosuntly a sneet metal worror la Chicago, 1 DEi also

Stacos

2e wes in Cube 10 dare,

and wild ea route

or the plane.

and StAb2ck were in Cuba

i ons some inne und weie sogether in Cuba at least part of

the tane.

Deir said his first coatet with the Cubans was

when de aonored norey to the Cavan cardo on sho cocasiors whe:

they heid parades or State Soroot 2n. 1950

At that time, he

wontioned that he was worling tor to Curtis Parristing

Cougany e

Szai said he thon vost to the Cubia Comtiato,

Chicago, and not 02. 22241231

DEA

expressed his sympathics toward tra CiS200 carolution to

Dr.

Ho said that Di. Pinion taou of and worked

hath the

aoth

of july lovenent

in Caseago, and he 2150 kna:

of the icination of the IPEC.

Pecording

to Lea.., Dr. FERRIE?

NN 47129 DocId: 32203638

Page 3

---

