# 157-10004-10188

## Page 1

157-10004-10188

Date: 08/06/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10188

RECORDS SERIES :

CABLE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : INCOMING #6787

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO : MEXICO CITY

TITLE :

REQUEST THAT ALVARADO BE TURNED OVER TO MEXICAN GOVERNMENT

DATE : 11/27/63

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

ALVARADO, GILBERTO

MEXICO CITY

REQUEST TO POLYGRAPH ALVARADO

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C, DONOR REST., REFERRED

: CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/09/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

=....

COMMENTS :

, au

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

D0010: 32202077

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DISTR:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION:

DaTE:

JW2E NOV 63

INFO:

FILE:

SCLESSiFICATION?

SNITIALS

DEFERRED

PRIORITY

OTG

INCOMING NUMBER

ROUTINE

ODO PIMEDIATAL.

INITIALS

IMMEDIATE

LFK

281935Z

TO

INFO

6787

CITE

INDEDIATE MEXI

IMMEDIATE!

DIR

NIGERS

RYBAT

FB

OD ENV

A LIAISON OFFICER OFFICIALLY ADVISES THATLODE

THAT KUBARK TURN ALVARADO OVER TO MEXICAN AUTHORITISS AND THAT KUZA

REQUEST MEXICAN AUTHORITIES TO INTERROGATE ALVARADO IN DETAIL®

2..

ODEN

REPORTS THAT IT UNDERSTAND THAT MEXICAN AUTHORITIES

HAVE A CAPABILITY OF POLYGPAPHING AND REQUESTS THAT KUBARK REQUEST

MEXICAN AUTHORITIES THAT HE BE POLYGRAPHED.

EXPRESSED A DESIRE TO HAVE THE RESULTS OF THE

INTERROGATION AS SOON AS POSSIDLE AND THAT THE LEGAL ATTACHE BE

KEPT ADVISED OF DEVELOPMENTS.

ODEN

LA TAKES THE POSITION THAT INASMUCH AS SILVIA DURAN MAY

BE RELEASES SOMETIME TODAY 128 ROWS, ACCORDING TO INFORMATION WHICH!

ENV

HAS FROM THE LEGAL ATTACHE,

ALVARADO SHOULD BE TURNED OVER

TO

THE PERICANS AS SOON AS POSSIBLE, SO THAT THEIR STORIES CAN BE

CHECARD AGAINST ZACH OTHER•

MEXI STATION IS INSTRUCTED TO CARRY OUT

ODENVY'S REQUESTS

SET OUT ABOVE•

GIVE FULL COOPERATION TO THE LEGAL

ATTACHE.

THIS

TURNOVER IS MADE WITHOUT PREJUDICE TO KUBARK'S FUTURE ROLE IN THIS

CASE•

WHETHER WE EVER RESUME DIRECT CONTACT

WITH ALVARADO WILL EE

DECIDED ON ITS MERITS WHEN THE

ISSUE ARISES.

REG.

POM

JAN 23 1976

CIA

2321402

HW 50955 DocId:32202077 Page 2

file

SECRET

CL.

iON

INCUMIN:

CIA HÀS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

<2/23/

END OF MSGJMMM

P8593

APPROVED FOR ELEASE 196

CIA HISTORICAL-KEVIZA PROGRAM

194

(262)

---

