157-10011-10007|

Date:08/15/92
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

@ IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA :
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10007 7

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM : [R]
TO : : [R]

TITLE :
INDEX CARDS c [R]

DATE : 06/00/75
PAGES : 192

SUBJECTS :
@ OPERATION MONGOOSE [R]
CASTRO : {R]

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT “
CLASSIFICATION : T :
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 139, Book 3 of 3, Index Cards, June/July 1975

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId:32203775 Page 1


@ abed GLieotze: Placa GcE6eoc MH

@ | i) ®

S$ 0 OBJECTION TO :

BOR

We Sy 159

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

IROUP—AUGMENTED; MONGOOSE,
ansdale\, TAYLOR, JOHNSON, GIL-

ICK, MCCONE, RFK, LEMNITZER, “
GHA) RUSK, KOHLER, (HURWITCH
CCURRENCE:

DATES: J | CATEGORIES:
June 20, 196 | Special Group Augmented
Juty—345-1962 MONGOOSE

dune—125-1962

~175-1963-

une 22, 1962

Due to reports of popular unrest, political strife, and economic disruptions
inside Cuba, it was suggested that the Special Group Augmented consider the value of
having an SNIE on Cuba made in the immediate future. id

cae Oia TOere ache thee
t ee ae Chane Chi Onw

For operational effectiveness, the CIA in Cuba for its initial
radio broadcasts from a submarine for "Voice of Cuba." The Navy states that the new
area is feasible and State has concurred in the theme and content of the broadcast. They
will take place around_the_end_of.the month. No proposals for actions by the Department
of State have been submitted since the appointment of State's special representative,

Mr. Hurwitch. They are expected on June 22, 1962.

from Lansdale re: Progress, Operation MONGOOSE, 20 June 1962
(00397-00398)
PILE:

SOURCE: Memorandum for the Special Group Augmented | STAPF: °

di Genova
DATE: July 1, 1975



 € abea SLLEOZTZE* PIOOg Gc6os AH

i) @ | &

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

, DECLASSIFICATION ANA/OR
* RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

, AS SANITIZED . a
Gp preb a4 —_
- LA. ;
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

D~MONGOOSE, | June 20, 1962 : Special Group Augmented
Cha eau TAYLOR, JOHNSON, GIL- taty-3t5-1962 MONGOOSE
ICK, MCCONE, REK, _LEMNITZER, : 5 WA

une 22, ‘196

Due to reports of popular unrest, political strife, and economic. disruptions
inside Cuba, it was suggested that the Special Group A ented consider the value of
having an SNIE on Cuba made in the immediate future. ge

ES ai io}

For operational effectiveness, the CTA has selected a new area in Cuba for its initial
radio broadcasts from a submarine for "Voice of Cuba." The Navy states that the new
area is feasible and State has concurred in the theme and content of the broadcast. They

—~ . --Will._take.place-around the-end.of.the month.. No proposals for actions by the Department—

. of State have been submitted since the appointment of State's special representative,

Mr. Hurwitch. They are expected on June ~22, 1962.

SOURCE: “Memorandum for the Special Group Augmented ST :

from Lansdale’ re: Progress, Operation MONGOOSE, 20 June 1962

(00397-00398) H di Genova
FILE: DATE: July 1, 1975



F obeq’ GLieoTzeiPIood Gceoc MH

é

{

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO toe
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR '
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT 247 {-

PE 8 Fee At

ae)

TOP SECRET
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

KING, J. C. Harvey
LE KE Part Erungps —. | May 23, 1967
BISSECL
HALPERN
OCCURRENCE:
The following sources of information were used in preparing the IG REPORT of
1967: (1) Files: Furnished for review by the Director of Security, the Deputy

Director for Support, the General Counsel, the Legislative Counsel, the Chief of
WH Division, and by Col. J. C. KING, former Chief of WH Division. Also, the

Director of Central Reference furnished biographic files and intelligence publi-
cations. (2) Interviews: Desmond Fitzgerald, Sam Halpern, Bruce Cheever, J. C.
King, Alfonso Rodriguez, J. D. Esterline, Edward Gunn, Howard Osborn, James
O'Connell, Sidney Gottlieb, Sheffield Edwards, Richard Bissell, Lawrence Houston,
RAGES. JohnWarner,, NeSeommsanehes William Harvey, Cornelius Roosevelt,
Robert Bannerman, Richard Ober.

SOURCE: IG REPORT, 1967, Baron

7/2/78
FILE: [21


_§ ehea CLLEOZZE:PIO0G co6Os MN

CIA HAS NO ORJECTI
DECLASSIFICATION ANDi
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMEUT pen ingd

Be PELUR Ge

16)

PERSONS/ENTITIES :
MCCONE — FITZGERALD
BUNDY  OPAPICH
JESSUP“ RFK
STEAKLEY  JMNAVE
JMNAVE VANCE

CATEGORIFS:
HUGHES...

£20 Sigs sose

( aby
OCCURRENCE: According to the minutes of the 303 Committee on 1/30/64, i was ‘agreed
that MR. FITZGERALD would contact SAM PAPICMof the FBI in regard to the earlier report
of an alleged plot with Mafia overtones to assassinate Castro and which the AG agreed

to handle as a matter of law enforcement." (116)'' The reference is clearly to a 6/10/64
memorandum information report from the DDP to the Director, (116) which was dissemin-

-ated-to-the Spec. Asst. to the-Pres,.for Natl. Security Affrs.; ASst. Sect. for Inter-
American Affairs,Dept. of State; Dir. of Intell. and Research, State Dept.; Director,
- DIA; The AG; the Director, FBI; DDCI and the DCI. The 6/10/74 report"related a proposal
for the assassination of Castro that was made to prominent Cuban exiles, The Mafia app-
eared, to be mnvolved in the scheme." The asking frice was as_$150, 000.4 SJOSEAMRIO. BERD ) PEBAIN ie)

a Simca would contribute $50,000. 4 Beall proached ‘the Chief of
cd suggested the U.S. goverment also contribute, This was rejected.
CLA! ey i Ww
SOURCE Tact record of incident found by IG Rept. is memo from|Me@dile!to Bundy, 8/19/64,
reporting:the results of FBI intvws with the alleged participayts qippviously nothing
cain of the plot."(117} DA

IG REPORT 1967 Baron, 7/1/75


9 abeq SLLEOZTEPIO0Cd Sce0s AH

JA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
BECLASSIFICATION AND/OR oy
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

BEBO MY

A)

MCCONE —- FITZGERALD 19/647
BUNDY PAPIGH 7730764
JESSUP *~ RFK 6/10/64 CASTRO
STEAKLEY JMWAVE 3 7 ;
JMWAVE VANCE

PERSONS/ENTITIFS: DATES: | CATRGORTIFS:
i
t
,

OCCURRENCE + According to the minutes of the 303 Comittee on 7730/64; TE was agreed
that MR, FITZGERALD would contact SAM PAPICHof the FBI in regard to the earlier report
of an alleged plot with Mafia overtones to assassinate Castro and which the AG agreed
to handle as a matter of law enforcement," (116)" The reference is clearly to a 6/10/64

ated to the Spec. Asst. to the Pres, for Natl, Security AfErs. ; ASst. Sect. for Inter-
American Affairs,Dept, of State; Dir. of Intell, and Research, State Dept.; Director,
. DIA; The AG; the Director, FBI; DDCI and the DCI. The 6/10/74 report"related a proposal
for the assassination of Castro that was made to prominent Cuban exiles.,The Mafia app-
cared to_be anvolved in_the scheme." The asking frice was $150,000. ~-SOSE@MARTO=BERRINas lame,
Pines Mo Macaig ould contribute $50,000. Skeseh zapproached the Chief of
Sta ion, JMWAVE, and suggested the U. S. govermnent also contribute, This was rejected.
CIA! vas_to_rep Ei iste "
Last record of incident found by IG Rept. is memo from|Me@dHe"to Bundy, 8/19/64,
reporting:the results of FBI intvws with the alleged participajts. qypeyiously nothing
sare age the plot."(117) DAT
. FI TG REPORT 1947

Raron. 7/1/75


£ abea GLLeozze:PIO0q GG6oc BH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

BECLASSIIGATION AND/OR
LEAS THIS Di

AS SANITIZED OCUMENT

BE 3 f+

41h\

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
MCCONE = FITZGERALD
BUNDY  PAPIGH
JESSUP —- RFK
STEAKLEY JMWAVE
JMWAVE — VANCE

HUGHES.

DATES: |
i

CATEGORIFS:

MONGOOSE

Pe a
QP CERRET

iaeeee

OCCURRENCE: According to the minutes of the 303 Conmittee on 7/30/64,"It was agreed
that MR. FITZGERALD would contact SAM PAPICHof the FBI in regard to the earlier report

of an alleged plot with Mafia
to handle as a matter of law enforcement." (116)" The referenc

overtones to assassinate Castro and which the AG agreed
e is clearly to a 6/10/64

memorandum information report from the DDP to the Director,’ (116) which was dissemin-

ated to the Spec. Asst.

American Affairs,Dept. of State; Dir. of Intell.
. DIA; The AG; the Director, FBI; DDCI and the DCI.
for the assassination of Castro that was made to prominent Cuban exiles. The Mafia app-
i the scheme." The asking frice was 150,000. <=J0SEaNNOR ED Np
HiWould contribute $50,000. QuMiely approached the Chief o
gested the U.S, govermment also”Contribute. This was rejected.
CIA's_only—involvement_w: i i i i nt

ee be 1

eared .t olved in

SOURCE Yast record of
reporting:the results of FBI intvws with the alleged particip: ts «Obviously nothing

“at ;
game of the plot<"(117)

to the Pres>~for-Natl.-Security Affrs. ;

incident found by IG Rept. is memo from

IG REPORT 1967

ASst. Sect. -for—Inter-

and Research, State Dept.; Director,
The 6/10/74 report"related a proposal

oN

Mediz to Bundy, 8/19/64,

Baron, 7/1/75



g ahead GLLeOZZe:PIOcG Cc60c AN

CIA HAS No OBJECT, I
ACLs! IFICATION ANDI

Ri
AS SANIT Ce OF THIS DOCUMENT

8 FEL q+ 7
Le)

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
MCCONE FITZGERALD
BUNDY — PAPIGH
JESSUP ~~ REK
STEAKLEY JMWAVE
JMWAVE VANCE

DATES: | CATEGORIES:
' .
i
y

OCCURRENCE: According to the minutes of the 303 Committee on 7/30/04" UTP was agreed
that MR, FITZGERALD would contact SAM PAPICHof the FBI. in regard to the earlier report
of an alleged plot with Mafia overtones to assassinate Castro and which the AG agreed
to handle as a matter of law enforcement." (116)" The reference is clearly to a 6/10/64
memorandum information report from the DDP to the Director, (116) which was dissemin-

————————<ated~to-the-Specs Asst. to the Press for-Nati; Security Affrs.; ASst. Sect. -for—Inter-

American Affairs,Dept. of State; Dir. of Intell. and Research, State Dept.; Director,

- - DIA; The AG; the Director, FBI; DDCI and the DCI, The 6/10/74 report"related a proposal
~ for the assassination of Castro that was made to prominent Cuban exiles. The Mafia app-
eared to be anvolved in the scheme." The asking price was_$150,000 Bos OCs MARIO RP IN
ROSCUE,, Seta Miampwould contribute $50,000. @@Seii approached the Chief of
Su! ested the U. Ss. goverment also contribute. This was rejected.

Cos + vf

SOURCE Yast record of incident found by 1G Rept. is memo from|Metdle” to Bundy, 8/19/64,
reporting:the results of FBI intvws with the alleged particip ts Qbviously nothing
eee? of the ploti"(117)

IG: REPORT 1967 Baron, 7/1/75



6 eHea. GLLEOZZE:PII0G CoEOs AN

»

.

‘CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
-DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE ents DOCUMENT

AS SANI

AL 3 Fes 14

4 (®

| PERSONS/ENTITIES:
MCCONE — FITZGERALD
BUNDY — OPAPICH
JESSUP

STEAKLEY SMNAVE
JMWAVE VANCE

DATES: | CATEGORIES:
.
'

OCCURRENCE : According to the minutes of the 303 Committee on 7/30/645"TE | was. “agreed
that MR. FITZGERALD would contact SAM PAPICHof the FBI in regard to the earlier report
of an alleged plot with Mafia overtones to assassinate Castro and which the AG agreed

to handle as a matter of law enforcement." (116)'' The reference is clearly to a 6/10/64
memorandum information report from the DDP to the Director,¥ (116) which was dissemin-

ated to the Spec. Asst..to the Pres. for Natl. Security Affrs.; ASst. Sect. for_Inter=
American Affairs,Dept. of State; Dir. of Intell. and Research, State Dept.; Director,
- DIA; The AG; the Director, FBI; DDCI and the DCI. The 6/10/74 report"related a proposal
for the assassination of Castro that was made to prominent Cuban exil Yafia.app-
eared to. bs, Rnvolved in the scheme." The asking frice was is_$150, 000.-% i ING

Gee so. OED Ebacigengkem) would contribute $50,000. ¢BOs@h yapproach®

suggested the U.S. govermment also contribute, This was rejected.
——_—The_record_indicates CIA's only involvement_w. Ci i "
SOURCE Yast record of incident found by IG Rept. is memo from|Me@dte"to Bundy, 8/19/64,
“Obviously nothing

reporting:the results of FBI intvws with the alleged participal| ta ane
Sanne of the plot."(117) TE
Aue Baron, 7/1/75

IG REPORT 1967


OT ahead GCLLEosZe:PII0d CEOs AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF ils DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

BE p Fee dy
AP)

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES | CATEGORIFS:
MCCONE FITZGERALD 8/19/64
BUNDY  PAPIGH 7/30/64 i
JESSUP RFK 710/64

STEAKLEY cdMWAVE -
JMWAVE VANCE

OCCURRENCE: According to the minutes of the 303 Committee on 7730/64, "TE
that MR, FITZGERALD would contact SAM PAPICHof the FBI in regard to the earlier report
of an alleged plot with Mafia overtones to assassinate Castro and which the AG agreed
to handle as a matter of law enforcement." (116)" The reference is clearly to a 6/10/64
memorandum information report from the DDP to the Director, (116) which was dissemin-

_ ated to the.Spec.Asst.tothe Pres. for Natl. Security Affrs.; ASst. Sect. for. Inter-_.
American Affairs,Dept. of State; Dir. of Intell. and Research, State Dept.; Director,

- DIA; The AG; the Director, FBI; DDCI and the DCI. The 6/10/74 report"related a proposal
for the assassination of Castro that was made to prominent Cuban exiles. abe Mafia app-
eared to be in the scheme." The asking Brice was_$150, 000. - SOSEQMARIOSRE

na PROSE, approached the thief of

. goverment also contribute. This was rejected.
7 4 we

wolvement_was_to_rep
SOURCE ace record of incident found by IG Rept. is memo from|MeéAle"to Bundy, 8/19/64,
reporting:the results of FBI intvws with the alleged particip ts qqgeviously nothing
sane of the plot.'"'(117)
PILE canon, 7/1/75

IG REPORT 1967


> TE ahed ciLeozze:PIood Cees AH

CIAHAS NO OBJECTION TO

- DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS. DOCUMENT =:
AS SANITIZED =

> Fee aq
Me)

PERSONS/ENTITIFS: : DATES: | CATEGORIES:
MCCONE FITZGERALD HUGHES, '

3 ‘

a H

BUNDY — PAPIGH

JESSUP —-REK .

‘ STEAKLEY JMWAVE ~~ AS gh Fe Noa aN ee
JMWAVE VANCE FE FDO a By ee }

OCCURRENCE: According to the minutes of the 303 Committee on 7730/64. "] is agreed
that MR, FITZGERALD would contact SAM PAPICHof the FBI in regard to the earlier report
of an alleged plot with Mafia overtones to assassinate Castro and which the AG agreed
to handle as a matter of law enforcement." (116)" The reference is clearly to a 6/10/64
memorandum information report from the DDP to the Director, (116) which was dissemin-

--+ ated to the Spec._Asst.-to-the Pres. for Natl, Security Affrs.; ASst. Sect. for Inter-

American Affairs,Dept. of State; Dir. of Intell. and Research, State Dept.; Director,
w - DIA; The AG; the Director, FBI; DDCI and the DCI. The 6/10/74 report"related a proposal
for the assassination of éastro that was made to prominent Cuban exiles, The Mafia app-
es to be anvolved in the scheme." The asking frice was. B10, 000, -=SOSERARIOBRER
FES etneranem,would contribute $50,000. <
ee JMWAVE, and suggested the U.S. govermnent also contribute. This was rejected.
d_indi¢ates CIA's _only_involvementwas_to_repo Ei i u
SOURCE Yast record of incident found by IG Rept. is memo from|Me@dle"to Bundy, 8/19/64,
reporting:the results of FBI intvws with the alleged particip: ts «Obviously nothing .
came _of ‘the plot."(117)
BILE: 1G REPORT 1967

Baron, 7/1/75


ZT aheqd GLLEOsZEePII0G CEOs AH

IA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
‘CATION AND/OR
DELLASSIIOAT THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED
aCe qt
BERT acy

PERSONS/ENTITIFS: DATES: | CATEGORIBS:
MCCONE —- FITZGERALD HUGHES 8/1 ae !
BUNDY  ©PAPIGH ; {
JESSUP —-REK es
STEAKLEY _JMWAVE
JMWAVE-—~ VANCE

OCCURRENCE: According to the minutes of the 303 Committee on 7/30/64,"It
that MR, FITZGERALD would contact SAM PAPICHof the FBI in regard to the earlier report
of an alleged plot with Mafia overtones to assassinate Castro and which the AG agreed

to handle as a matter of law enforcement." (116)'' The reference is clearly to a 6/10/64
memorandum information report from the DDP to the Director,% (116) which was dissemin-

ated to the Spec. Asst. to the Pres. for Natl. Security Affrs.; ASst. Sect. for Inter-_

American Affairs,Dept. of State; Dir. of Intell, and Research, State Dept.; Director,
- - DIA; The AG; the Director, FBI; DDCI and the DCI. The 6/10/74 report"related a proposal
for the assassination of Castro that was made to prominent Cuban exile
i $

RPwould contribute $50,000.
> ‘and suggested the U.S. govermment also

d_indicates CIA's only involvement was_to— "

SOURCE Yast record of incident found by IG Rept. is memo from|MeGdile"to Bundy, 8/19/64,
reporting:the results of FBI intvws with the alleged particip ts 5 Obviously nothing
ree of the plot."(117)

f approached
mtribute, This was rejected,

IG REPORT 1967 Baron, 7/1/75


@

CIA'HAS NO OBJECTION TO -

REE SS CATION ANDAR .
ia HIS DOG

AS SaNTizeo UMENT

Cs ead
» AOD)

€T ahead CLLEOsZetPII0d CEOS AH

PERSONS/ENTITIFS: : . DATES: | CATEGORIES:
MCCONE FITZGERALD ' SGA ;
BUNDY APAPICH \ MONGOOSE

JESSUP —sRFK
STEAKLEY NAVE
JMWAVE VANCE

OCCURRENCE: according to the minutes of the 303 Comittee on 7/30/64;"It was agreed
that MR. FITZGERALD would contact SAM PAPICHof the FBI in regard to the earlier report
of an alleged plot with Mafia overtones to assassinate Castro and which the AG agreed

to handle as a matter of law enforcement." (116)' The reference is clearly to a 6/10/64
memorandum information report from the DDP to the Director,¥ (116) which was dissemin-

ated to the Spec. Asst. to the Pres. for Natl. Security Affrs.; ASst. Sectl for Inter-
American Affairs,Dept. of State; Dir. of Intell. and Research, State Dept.; Director,

. - DIA; The AG; the Director, FBI; DDCI and the DCI. The 6/10/74 report"related a proposal
for the assassination of Castro that was made to prominent Cuban exiles. The Mafia app-

a:

eared to be mnvolved in the scheme." The asking frice was_$150,000. <OSE TN MOR REDO

un would contribute $50,000. @Beselh approached the Chicefor

Station, JMVAVE, and ‘sug

gested the U.S. goverment also"contribute. This was rejected.
- CIAts_o i was_to_re; i ation of i i "
SOURCE Yast record of incident found by IG Rept. is memo from|Mc@cH#" to Bundy, 8/19/64,
reporting:the results of FBI intvws with the alleged participay tsa bviously nothing
came, of the plot:"(117) DAT:

PILE: 1G REPORT 1967 Raran. 7/1/76



FT abed GLLgozze:PTO0G SG60c AH

CIA HAS HO OBJECTION T

DECLASSIFcaTiOw ANDIOR
EASE OF THIS DOCUME

AS SANITIZED  CUMENT

RY Fae 4 Ad

REX

“George Bundy

tr. Wilson Oct 9, 1962— Special Group (Augmented)

Mr. Johnson” igen.
th. Gilpatric Dr. Scoville
Gan. Taylor Col. Steakley

Wong eose.

OCCURRENCE:

SGA discussed various possibilitics of accomplishing reconaiss:
very low level coverave hy tactical aircraft to high performance aircraft and drones.
flights and peripheral flights were discussed:

nce of Cuba, ranging fron

ditch yee

reed that the first priority is one high performance mission in the westem part ol VW
SAS : : Me
| Nepending on the results of this,

a number of simiTar searches may he mounted.
authority, but the decision on the second propositian eft open.

First mission was later approved by higher

Nicks on Wednesday, Octoher 10th.

The entire packase was to be discussed at the USTB, and hb
i o > toe

Memoranda for the record, dated&octéhér 9,

vrepared by ‘Thomas Parrot.

2 Special Group Augmented and ;


GP abeq GSLLEDZTE*PIO0G coeos an
i
'
i
i

,

CIA HAS. NO OBJECTION TO .
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR . 7 -
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT a4

Ge pe 1 a

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
sounson / :
KILPATRICK . MONGOOSE =
MCCONE Sept .16,1963 SPECIAL GROUP

URRENCE:

On September 16, 1963 a memorandum reported that-all members of the special group
have approved projec{ [Pactivties in the
area of Cuba.)"

SOURCE: STAPF:
Memorandum dated 16 September 1963 for members of
the Special Group from Mr. Parrott Kelley
FILE: DATE:

6/28/75


AS NO OBJECTION TO
: CLASSIFICATION AND/OR aa, aon £
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUM! ar ate

af

“9T abea GLLeozze:PIo0d GG60c BN

PERSONS/ENTITIES: °

- DATES: | CATEGORIES:
H
t
,

Nov. 16, 1962 Mongoose

Insp. General In”

CARTER YStfs
OCCURRENCE: «.
On November 16, 196 at the CIA Inspector General's request and with General

Carter's approval sent the Inspector General a brief summary of comments by USIB
members regarding the FFIAB request that the Inspector General was working on.

Thy FT BoM is ME Fee
Ta eee
f - RI ” . i
SOURCE: STAFF:
———* To memorandum fron] } to the Inspector “~~ Paul Wallach
General ‘dated November 16, 1962. (00885)

DATE:
FILE: July 1, 1975

