157-40044-10093:

Date : 08/06/95
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY INFORMATION

SSCIA
157~-10014-10093
HEARINGS
13-H-02

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

SSCIA
BISSELL, RICHARD

R-1097

09/10/75

84
BISSELL, RICHARD

LUMUMBA, PATRICE

TRANSCRIPT

UNCLASSIFIED

1A, 1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
09/25/98

(R}] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

RW 50955 DocId:32423481 Paye 1


Report of Proceedings

Hearing held before

Senate Select Committea to Study Covarnmental

Operations With respect to Intelligence Activities

he JFK Assess!
aie 199 (PLIO2S28)

Wednesday, September 10, 1975
ashingron, D.C.

(Steaotype Tape and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET. 3. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003

(202) 544.6000

SECRET



TESTIMONY OF

Richard N, Bissell

EXHIBITS
NUMBER
Bissell Exhibit No.
Bissell Exhibit No.

Bissell Exhibit No.

Bissell Exhibit No.

Bissell Exhibit No.
Bissell Exhibit No.6

Bissell Exhibit No. 7

Bissell Exhibit No. §

(exhibits were retained by counsel.)

Ec wasringion, 9G 20003

TOP SECRET



*, nash |

Wednesday, September 10, 1975

Prone taves 282) 344-8000

United States Senate,
Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations with Respect to
Intelligence Activities,

Washington, D. C.

The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 2:20 p.m,

in Room 608, Capitol Hill Hotel, Senator Gary W. Hart
presiding.
Present: Senator Hart of Colorade (presiding).
Also present: Frederick A. 0. Schwarz, Jrer Chief
Counsel; Curtis R. Smothers, Minority Counsel; Frederick

Baron, Rick Inderfurth, Paul Wides, Rhett Dawson and Joseph

piGenova, Professional Staff Members

Jasminatan, ©.€. 70003

st.

TOP SECRET



ret, 5-6, Warmington, 8.6. 2003

stand and be sworn.

Do you awear that the testimony you are about to give
te the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, #0
help you God?

Mr Bissell. TI do.

Senator Hart of Colorado. The same circumstances
apply as applied under your previous experiences before: the
committee. You have the right under our rules to have a
member of the Committee present at all times if you choose.
And you have also your Constitutional right to counsel if you
sc choose. You do understand?

Mr. Bissell. I understand.

Senator Hart of Colorado, We will be under way now.

Mr. Baron. You are appearing here voluntarily today

without counsel?

Mr. Bissell. I am.

TOP SECRET



TESTIMONY OF RICHARD N, BISSELL

Mr. Baron, Mr. Bissell, since we have talked with you
last about the subject of the Congo we have taken. testimony
from a number of witnesses. ghe first that we would dike to}
turn to is Bronson qweedy, who in 1960 and 1961, ag I am
gure you will recall, waa the Chief of the African Division.
He indicated to us in his testimony that he had a number of
talks with you, probably in the summer or fall of 1960,

where the prospect of assassinating Lumumba wae raised.

what can you tell us about those discussions?

ve, Bissell. I am afraid I can't tell you anything.

r don't remember the specific discussions with him. Tt seems’

to me, however, entirely to be expected that such conversa

tions took place. 1 think T testified previously, but in any ;
case, I remember assigning Justin O'Donnell to study

the possibilities and to make plans for the assassination or
elimination of Lumumba » And since that was in the Africa
area, I think ‘it most unlikely that I would have done that
without saying something to the pivision Chief about it-

Mr, Baron. Mr. tweedy's testimony was to the effect
that he was in fact not being informed of some on-going
operation or some instruction that was contempkated, but
rather that you and he were discussing the feasibility of
assassinating Lumumba.

pid such discussions take place?

TOP SECRET



mone (Ares 207) 584-6000

3
é
3

Ayo Fast screen $6, wast

Mr. Bissell. I don't happen to remember them, but
it seems to me entirely probable that they did. And if he
said so I would certainly accept that.

Mr. Baron. And would you assume that if such dis-
cussions took place they would have taken place in the summer
or fall of 19607

Mr. Bissell. Yes.

Mr. Baron. Would such discugaiona have involved planni
for an actual assassination mission?

Mr, Bissell. Yes, planning for, but not necessarily
any authorization to take specific steps to implement such
a plan.

Mr. Baron. Would planning discussions in the sense
that you are using the term included sending instruments of
assassination te the Congo?

Mr. Bissell. They might have, although again I
don't happen to remember that. I am aware, I think, that
there is a record that something was said, but I had no
recollection that things went that far. But that still could
have been included in what I mean by the term “planning and
preparing”.

Mr. Baron. Did you give Mr. Tweedy any specific
instruction as to steps he Was ‘te take to further a plan
to assassinate Lumumba?

Mr, Bissell. may have. I don't remember them. The

TOP SECRET

'
'
i
i

|
ng



3
5

at Sure SF, aston

only clear recollection 1 have is of what I think was

the initial discussion on this matter that I had with Justin
o'Donnell. And I believe that he and I had that alone, in
other words, that Mr. weedy was not present in the dis-
cussion I had with O'Donnell.

Mr. Baron. We will turn tater to filling out the
details of your conversation with Justin O'Donnell.

For the moment, aticking with Mr. qtweedy's teatimony,
he also testified that during this same period of time he !
composed cables that went to the Chief of Station in Leopold-
ville inquiring at to 1£.the Chief of Station could gain access

to Lumumba for the purpose of assassinating him.
pid you send such cable?
my, Bissell. 1 would think the record would show
whether they were sent, If they were waent the record would
presumably also show if T signed them. And I expect that
if they were sent I would have signed them. But I don't
happen at this distance in time to remember the specific
cables.
Mr. wides. Tf you had sent cables of that kind,
Mr. Bissell, would ‘ghey have gone in the normal channels out
trom the African Division, of might they more likely have
gone on a restricted basié from yourself to the Station
Chief without ~~

“Mr. Bissell. q think it is very probable that it would

TOP SECRET



eet, Sti Wraymonatvin, OC. 70003

10 Fosse

have been the latter, although given the fact of conversations
with the Division Chief, presumably he would have been on the
distribution for these cables. Sut probably it would have
bean restricted to the Director or the Deputy Director or
tha Division Chief, and probably Nr.lelms'Deputy.

Mr. Baron. It was Mr. Tweedy's testimony that although
he composed such cables, they went out, as far as he could

recall, under your signature ox from your office.

Mc, Bissell. ‘That would be a very normal procedure.
Mr. Baron. De you recall discussing with Mr. Tweedy
the fact that he should write such cables, whether or not you
recall the specific cables?
Mr. Bissell. = really don't.

Mr. Baron. Mr. Tweedy also testified that the cable |

traffic that he was sending ‘to the Congo was part of # back and

forth communication in which he was receiving information from|

the Chief of Station in Leopoldville about the kind of :
access that he could gain to Lumumba.

pia you read such cables from the Chief of Station in
Leopoldville?

we, Bissell. 1 am sure I did. I don't remenber it
specifically. ‘

Mr. Wides. Do you recall the question of access

being one part of the exploration that you were doing?

Mc. Bissell. Yes, that indeed would have been a key

TOP SECRET



3
ry
¥

et S04 Memnington, BG. PADDY

part of it.

Mr, Wides. Do you recall that being so?

Mr. Blasell. don't specifically recall it. But
since I am clear that at least in the case of O'Donnell, and
I now presuma in the case of Mr. Tweedy, I authorized and
indeed directed this planning and preparatory activity, A
major part of this would have been a search for ways in
which access could be gained.

Mr. Baron. And what kind of access were you looking
for at that time?

Mr. Bissell. Obviously I would say the access of an
individual who for one reason or another could get close to
Lumumba.

Mr. Baron, In the summer and very early fall of 1960
this would have been access to Lumumba for the purpose of :
assassinating him rather than anatching him from U.N. custody?

Mr. Bissell, Well, it could have been for the pur-
pose really of eliminating him from his theyfo itical acti-

vities. And that could have been assassination, or it

“could have involved some form of incapacitation, or ‘t could

possibly have been, in your words, snatching him so
that he could be put into the custody of what we regarded
as friendly authorities.

Mr. Baron. Would you have sought information from

the Chief of Station on whether he could gain access to

TOP SECRET



Lumumba for the purpose of poisoning Lumumba,

Mr. Bissell. it could very well have. That was one
method of elimination, and that was obviously thought about
at the time as part of the planning, and almost certainly

we would have been in touch with the Chief of Station to see

if he could gain access for that purpose.
Mr. Baron. Were you also in touch with the Chief of
Station to seek access for the shooting Lumumba?

Mr. Bissell. I would guess that really the questions

to the Chief of Station would have had to do with gaining access

for whatever method -- an access that could be used for
whatever method of eliminating Lumumba might be simple,
practical and workable. And I doubt if the question would
have been a different one, depending on the device or weapon
to be used.

Mr. Baron. To retrace something you said a moment
ago, if Me. Tweedy had authored cables seeking information
from the Chief of Station in Leopoldville about gaining
access to Lumumba, you would have approved such cables?

Mr. Bissell, Yes, I would most certainly have.

Excuse me. Let me elaborate on that.

Given the procedures and relationships in effect, 1
think Mr, Tweedy, on the basis of an oral authorization from
me, would have had the authority to send such a cable without

my signing off on it. But in a matter of this sensitivity

TOP SECRET



prone (Arse 2021, $44-6000,

3
4
a
=

3 think :bt highly likely that he would have drafted the
cable, initialed it and sent it to my office for dispatch.

Mr. Baron, And you wouldn't dispute hie testimony that
he did 20?

Mr. Bissell. Oh, no. His testimony seemed to me to be
absolutely consistent with my recollections, which, alas,
are somewhat tntorn, ilies’

Me, Baron. Would your discussione with Mr. Tweedy have|
Involved discussing the possibility of poisoning Lumumba?

Mr. Bissell, I suppose S80.

Mr. Baron. We have also taken teatimony from the man
who was Chief of Station in Leopoldville during this period of,
time, from mid-summer of 1960 throughout 1961, and he testified--

Mr. Bissell. Would you remind me who it was?

Me. Baron. Off the record for a moment.

(Discussion off the record.)

Senator Hart of Colorado. Back on the record.

Mr. Baron. While we were off the record we explained
the arrangement under which the Chief of Station would
testify before the Cor ittee under alias. And we will refer
to him here today as.the Chief of Station, or by his alias,
which is that of Victor Hedgman.

Mr. Bissell, when the Chief of Station testified before
us he indicated that at some point in the late summer or

early fall of 1960 probably toward the latter part of August

TOP SECRET



prone (Aree 202) $84-6000

5, Wasnmatan, Be, Fudd

or the very first days in September, he received a cable from
CIA headquarters to the effect that a messenger wili come

to the Congo who you will recognize, and who will bring in-=
atructiona which you are to carry ouk.

pid you send auch a cable to the Chief of Station?

Mr. Biseell. I could have.

put I have perhaps a peculiar reason for questioning
whether in this particular case I dia. And my reason is
the following.

you will notice that the cable you have just shown me
that was sent out by the Director of Central Intelligence in
late August, the cable was released by his initials. And
it bears the notification that the only other distribution
was to be to Mr. Helms, who was then, you will remember,
Deputy -- my deputy.

Now, 4t is virtually inconceivable to mey given my
knowledge of and involvement in this operation, that the
Director would have sent a cable, denied circulation to me
and had it circulated to Mr. Helms, if I had been in
Washington. And I suspect that we could establish on the
record that I was on vacation when the message you have shown
me was sent.

Mr. Wides. That was in early August?

Mr. Baron. Let's introduce as exhibit No, 1 for

this session the document that you are referring to, which

TOP SECRET



3
a
a
g
5

TOP’ SECRET
is a cable dated Auguat 26, 1960, from Allen W. Dulles to
Leopoldville. And this cable includes the paragraph
“In high quarters here it is the clear-cut conclusion

that if LLL continues to hold high office inevitable result

will at best be chaos and at worst pave the way for Communist

takeover of the Congo with disastrous consequences for the

prestige of the U.N. and for the interest of the free world

generally. Consequently, we conclude..that his removal must

be an urgent and prime objective, and that under existing

conditions this should be a high priority of our covert action
(The document referred to was :
marked Bissell Exhibit No. 1

for identification.)

TOP SECRET



3
a
°
5

Mr. Baron. Mr. Bissell, would LLL refer to Lumumba
in this cable?

Mr. Bissell. I believe so.

Mr. Baron. And isn't it unusual that this cable
bears the designation Allen W. Dulles as opposed to Director

Mr, Bissell. That ia unusual.

Mr. Baron, What does that signify?

Mr, Bissell. Y believe this cable was drafted by the
Director himself. That would be my inference from the format. |

Mr. Baron. And does this appear to be Mr. Dulies* initials
which are blurred in the copy we have? :

Mr. Bissell. They may be there, but in any event, the
releasing signiature 4s definitely his.

If I may complete the answer to your question, for the
reason I have given you, my surmise is that T was not
in Washington, and probably on vacation, when this was
sent. I suspect that 1 might be able to dig out calendars
and establish that if it became very germane.

If that is the case, it is quite possible that the
cable you asked me about stating that a messenger would
soon arrive in Leopoldville was sent also in my absence.

Mr. Baron. If euch a cable was sent in your absence
would you be apprised of it upon your return to neadquarters?

Mr, Bissell. I suspect so, yes. In this case I would

be almost certain that I would.

TOP SECRET



Mr. Baron. And what would such a cable have referred

Mr. Bissell. Well, I suppose just what that said.

mone (Ares 202) $44-4000

Explicitly it refers, as you quoted, or characterized it, to
a messenger with instructions to he followed.

Mr. Baron. And who was that messenger to be?

Mx, Bissell. I have no idea without digging ‘back into tnd

traffic.

Me. Baron. And were those instructions raiated to
the assassination of Lumumba?

Mr. Bissell. it certainly sounds as if they were
related to his elimination in one way or another.

Mr, Wides. Why is that, Mr. Bissell?

Mr, Bissell. Just because the method of transmission

3
a
°
:

is peculiar, and suggests.high sensitivity, But it seems

to me, on the basis of what you hve told me of the message,
it can be only inference.

Mr, Baron. And one means of eliminating Lumumba con-
templated at CIA headguarters at this time would have been
an assassination?

Mr. Bissell. Yes.

Mr. Baron. In the testimony of the Chief of Station

who was in Leopoldville at that time, he made the representa-

Street, 86., Wayninatnn, 8.6, 20003

tion -- let me back track for a moment.
Noe eee. Be

Did you ever discuss with Sidnéy Gottlieb the assassination

TOP SECRET

sors



Prone tres 2024 544-6000

of Lumumba?

Mr. Bissell, 1 think it is very probable that I did.
Mr. Baron, What would these discussions. have involved?
Mr. Wides. Excuse me. Was Mr. Gottlieb at that tine
science advisor to yourself?
Mr. Blasell. I believe he was. I would answer that

question definitely if the record shows that he had not yet

taken that position. But I am almost sure == I had better

of science advisor, I think that my answer would stand, that

4
|
|

not say that. Assuming that he had assumed the position - :

I very probably would have consulted with him.

Mr. Wides. For the record, while he was science advisor
to the DDP, was he also an official of the TSD component,
or was that a separate -~ 7

Mr. Bissell. No, he was not. His asaignment to my
office was hie full time and sole responsibility.

Mr. Baron, And you say that you probably did dis-
cuss with Sidney Gottlieb the assassination of Lumumba.

What would have been the substance of those discussions?

Mr. Bissell. It would have been discussing with him
possible weapons or other means to use. When he was my
science advisor, I frequently used him as in effect liaison
with the Technical Services Division, the person who had
been a member of it. And he knew the personnel and he knew

a great deal about their programs. I presume that if I had

TOP SECRET



2. 5... wasningten, 2.6. 20004

had such Aiacuasions with him I would have been asking him to
give thought to ways and means.

Mr. Baron. And you were asking Mr,/Gottlieb, then,
to think about the technical means by which an assaseination
could be carried out?

Mr. Bissell, Correct.

Mr. Wides, That is an assumption that you were, or
can you recall now?

Mr. Bissell. No, it is an assumption -- it is an in-

ference, if you like, from the circumstances. I think it is

2
quite likely that I would have had such discussions with him

assuming, as I believe to be true, that he-was the science
advisor at that time.

Mr. Hides. But you have no recollection?

Mr. Bissell. No.

Senator Hart of Colorado: Excuse me, Mr. Baron.

I am going to have to go to vote, and I would just
like the record to reflect your acquiescence that there is
no committee member here if in fact that is the case

Mr. Bissell. I do so acquiesce, and I am happy to
continue.

Senator Hart of Colorado. With that understanding
you are willing to continue?

Mr. Bissell. Yes.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Thank you very much.

TOP SECRET



with Sidney Gottlieb about the assassination of Lumumba?

Mr. Baron. Did you have any other kinds of discussions

Mr. Bissell. None that I remember.

Mr. Baron. Did you discuss with Mr. GottiLeb your
conversations with Justin O'Donnell?

Mr. Bissell. I just have no recollection of that.

Mr. Baron. Did Mr. Gottlieb come to you and report to
you on his conversations with Justin O'Donnell about the
assasaination of Lumumba?

Mr, Bisgell, Again, I am sorry, I just have no

recollection one way or the other.

Mr. Baron, Did Mr. Gottlieb make you aware that he had!

dn his shop, or he knew how to obtain the means to assassin-
ate Lumumba?

Mr. Bissell. Well, I certainly was aware in a general
way that various means were available in the Technical
Services Division, I don't know whether T obtained that
information specifically from.Mr. Gottlieb, but probably I
did obtain some of it through him.

Mr. Baron, But however you obtained this information,
you were aware that the means were available to assassinate
Lumumba?

Mr. Bissell. T think you put it too specifically.

I was aware that as part of it is on-going activity. The

Technical Services Division did a lot of work in the develop~

TOP SECRET



Prone (Ares 207) 546-4600

aro Fast

ment of various weapons of a sort appropriate for a clandes~

tine service. And I was aware, I am quite certain, that
these included poisons, type of firearms, and a whole range

of capabilities. But my belief today, and my recollection,

is that I-was aware of these ag the products, I repeat, of

an on-going development program which iteelf was not targetted |
at any type individual or operation. :

Mi. Baron. And with whom did you have discussions of

chnical means that might be used to assassinate Lumumba
other than Sidney Gottlieb?

Mr. Bissell. I do not know. IT could have had with
Mr. Roosevelt, whom I think was still the head of the Techni-
cal Division. _ & don't believe it would have been any but
those two.

Mr. Baron. This would be Cornelius Roosevelt?

Mr, Bissell. That is correct.

Mr. Baron. Did Mr, Gottlieb express to you his
reluctance to participate in an assassination plan?

Mr, Bissell. I don't ever remember his so doing.

Mr. Baron. Did Mr, Gottlieb appear to be willing to
see what he could do to obtain or develop the means to be
used in such a plan?

Mr. Bissell. I really don't have any recollection that
would enable me to answer that. I do believe that -- if

he had demurred strongly, and urged its abandonment, or

TOP SECRET



Prone cares 2027 42-6000

5c. Warmington, 0.6. 70003

opposed it, I think it ie likely that I would have remembered
that position on his part, because I do remember very clearly
dustin O'Denneli's reaction, And since I don't remember

any such negative reaction from Mr. Gottlieb, my interence is
that there probably was none.

Mr. Baron. The Chief of Station in Leopoldville at
that tdme further testified to us that in very early
September he received a visit from Sidney Gottlieb in the
Congo.

Did you sent Mr. yGottileb to the Congo at that time?

Mr, Bissell. Probably, if he went there, 1 certainly
would have been fully knowledgeable of it.

Mr. Baron, And you would have approved his visit?

Mr. Bissell. Yes. :

Mr. Wides. Particularly if this occurred when he was
your science advisor.

Mr, Bissell. Right.

Mr, Wides. Is it correct that he would only have
gone there pursuant to your direction?

Mr. Biggell. Correct.

Mr. Baron. What were Mr, Gottifeb's instructions, or
what was his mission at that time?

Mr, Bissell. 1 do not know.I can draw inferences from
the circumstances that have already been mentioned.

Mr. Wides. In the course of his duties as your science

TOP SECRET



i cy
ie a
TOP’SECRET
advisor, did he take fraquent trips abroad?

Mr. Bissell. I would say infrequent. It seemed to mea

there were one or two others,

Pmone (Aras 202) $44-6000

Mr. Wides, " Would these trips be involved with
highly sensitive operations as distinct from scientific
evaluation?

Mr, Blasell, I believe that for the most part they
would not have been involved with highly sensitive specific
operations, but rather would have involved consultation with
people in the field on the effectiveness of devices, tech=
niques, procedures, underdevelopment in the Technical
Services Division.

Mr. Wides. And given the unusual of his going to the
Congo if he did in connection with clandestine operations
there, you would have no recollection of that today?

Mr, Bissell. T don't have any recollection of that

today, no. This is the first time I realized, since many
years ago, that he had made such a trip.

Mr. Baron, | Would he also have been aware that he

“had made such a trip?

Mr, Bissell. Well, the Chief of Station obviously,
Bronson Tweedy, obviously. Quite probably the Director,
but not certainly, And several others.: I assume that Mr.
Helms would have known about it at the time, because there

would have been some kind of cable traffic, and I strongly

TOP SECRET



Prone (ares 202) 564-6000

fot, $.€., Wasmangtan, PLC. 20003

suspect that Cornelius Roosevelt would have known
about it.

Mr. Baron. Did Mr. Gottlieb's trip have anything to do
with the assassination of Lumumba?

Mr. Bissell, I don't know, since I don't remember the

circumstances, I really can't say.

Mr. Baron, Would you assume that Mr. Gottlieb's trip

have had something to do with the assassination of Lumumba?

Mr. Bissell. I think it might very well:

Mr. Baron. And again we are talking about the plot
to assassinate Lumumba rather than Lumumbats ultimate demise

Mr, Bissell. Correct.

Mr. Baron,If Mr, Gottiieb's vieit related to the plot
to assassinate Lumumba, would such a sensitive operation

,have been made known to Bronson Tweedy?

Mr. Biasell. I believe so, specially in the light
ef the fact that apparently this possibility had been dis-
cussed with Bronson Tweedy more than once.

Mr. Baron. Is it possible that Bronson Tweedy would
have been cut out of the actual mounting of an assassination
operation despite the fact that the feasibility of an
assassination had been discussed with him?

Mr. Bissell. Yes, it is possible.

Mr. Baron. Was that the case?

Mr. Bissell. I don't remember. But if you ask me to

TOP SECRET



e
c
©.
on
c
G

1.5 f.. Wasminatun, 0.6, 20003

guess, I think I would I think my guessing would come down
slightly on the side of his having been cut out rather than
knowledgeable.

Mr. Baron. Why would that be?

Mr, Bissell. Well, I repeat, I am guessing about this,
and the reasoning that leads me to make that remark is that

my recollection is that my assignment to o*Donnell was very

narrowly held. And I do not remember discussing that asaign-
ment with Bronson Tweedy. And so 1 think there is a real
possibility -- and it is a guess, trying as beet T can te recah-
struct what was going on at the time, but not based on any
vecollection of actual-discussions -- but my guess, as I say, !
would come down very slightly on the side that 0’Donneli's
assignment was not known to Bronston Tweedy, and that he, there~
fore, waa cut out of this phase-

tir. Baron. And would have been cut out of knowledge
of Gottlieb's viast to the Congo?

fe. Bissell. Could have been, although that is
more unlikely, It seems to me that if he was being cut out
of knowledge of the ‘specific operation, that he would have
had to be knowledgesble of the visit, and would have Peen
given an explanation of the visit other than the postulated
true explanation.

nic. Baron. In the light of that, Mr.Bissell, is it

likely that the cable traffic that Mr. tweedy describes going

TOP SECRET



oe
¢
oe
c.
c.
<
~

amo 8 PAUL

back and forth between himself and the Chief of Station

in the Congo concerning gaining access to Lumumba could have
unbeknownst’ to him related to gaining access to Lumumba for
the purpose of an assassination plot that waa further along
the line than Mr. Tweedy knew?

Mr. Bissell. It could have. I would put it another
way. It seems to me that the information gleaned in that
interchange was probably an input to the planning -- the prep-°
atory activity that identity with O'Donnell.

Mr. Baron. To repeat for a moment, Gottlieb's
visit to the Congo would have been known to the Chief of Sta~
tion, yourself and Director of Central Intelligence, and
possibly Bronson Tweedy?

Mr, Bissell. 1 think probably Bronson Tweedy, and

almost certainly a few other people. I repeat, I think
Cornelius Roosevelt would have known of it. I think Richard
Helms would have knwon of it, and I think several others.
I am making a distinction between those who would have known
of the visit, an event that would not be easy to keep secret
from a number of people in the Agency, and knowledge of the
true purpose of that visit, if indeed its true purpose were,
as was suggested.

Mr. Baron, Did you have any discussion with Richard
Helms about the assassination of Lumumba?

Mr. Bissell. I don't remember ~~ wait a minute. No,

TOP SECRET



prone (Arka 707) 544-6008

ToP’s
I believe I:did not with Mr. Helms.

Mr. Baron. You paused for a moment there. Was there
some discussion that you were thinking about that could have
related to Lumumba?

Mr. Bissell. Yes.

I think what came into my mind was a later and
subsequent conversation with Mr. Helms sometime after.

And this had to do with O*Donnell, and I seem to remenber

Mr. Helms making a remark that he was a somewhat ~~ on
occasion a somewhat unsable person, And at that point the Buby
ject may have come up with Mr. Helms. But ny impression is
that any such conversation with Mr. Nelms was a good deal
later.

Mr. Wides. Mr. O'Donnell indicated that after he spoke
to you and told you that he would not participate in the
assassination effort, that he went essentially nextdoor to
your office, to Mr. Helms' office, and recounted his dis~
cussion with you to Mr. Helms.

Do you recall any discussion about that time that
Helms might have come back to you to find out about?

Mr. Bissell. Let me explain, the dim recollection
that I have just voiced of a conversation with Helms after
the termination of O'Donnell's assignment, and Helms comment
on it. But I still believe that Mr.Helms did not know of

this until after what I would refer to as the termination of

TOP SECRET

na



C
c.
c
rs
B

f

30003

sect, $F. wasminaion BC:

O'Donnell's involvement, which was. the occasion you have just
referred tc.

Mr. Wides. It was not described hy Mr, O'Donnell as
the termination of an assignment.

Mr. Bissell. All right, that is my phrase, but as I
have already testified, my recollection -- and it is recollec~
tion -- is that Mr. O'Donnell came in to me -- I thought it
was a matter probably of at least several weeks, but T
could be wrong on the timing -- after i had originally
given him the assignment, and expressed both his personal
reluctance to attempt to carry it out, and his belief that
it was the wrong way to proceed. Whether he so stated to Mr.
O'Donnell, it certainly was my decision at that time that it
be dropped, And to the best of my knowledge and belief,
no further action was taken.

Mr. Schwarz. By "it" in that example do you mean the
assassination of Lumumba, or O'Dennell's involvement in the
assassination of Lumumba?

Mr. Bissell. At any rate, O'Ponnell's involvement
the project that he had been asked to plan and prepare for,
that that would net be continued.

Mr. Baron. And that was the assassination of Lumumba?

Mr. Bissell. Yes.

Mr. Schwarz. You mean one officer comes in and gives

you a negative, and then you decided to turn off something

TOP SECRET

|
|
|
|



Prone tAree 202) 348-6000

Sireei, 5.6, Wastnaton, B.C. 20008

410 6

that you had been looking into ‘tor weeks because one
officer says he wouldn't do it?

Mr, Bigsell. To turn it off, or at least if it be
continued, to change not only the people connected with it, bu
probably the whole modus operandi. And the reason for that {
decison, {heofar ae I can recollect fe, 48, my grave concern
that, given O'Donneli’s reaction, there was a risk that the
planning of such an operation would be blown.

Mr. Schwarz. You mean if it was done he would expose
the conversation? ;

Mr. Bissell. Something of that kind could happen,

Mr. Dawson. Who were you worried about O'Donnell in
that case exposing it to? Certainly not the press

Mr. Bissell. % can't recally answer that, except by
surmise, but I do remember that this had been in my mind
a very sensitive assignment to him, limited -- with the
knowledge of it to be Limited very narrowly even within the
Agency. And it is difficult to separate recollection from
inference on occasion, But I seem to recollect that after
this conversation with him I wanted this put very much on
the back burner and inactivated for quite some time.

Now, that doesn't rule out the possibility that some
action through completely different channels might have gone

forward, But the best of my recollection is, I viewed this

TOP SECRET



&
c
]
Cc
C.

ARO A PAUL

not only as terminating the assignment for him, but also
as reason for at least postponing anything further along that
line.

Mr. Schwarz. Who had knowledge within the Agency of your
assignment to O'Donnell and ita. true'purpose.

Mr, Bissell. I would guess that ~~

Mc, Schwarz. Not guess, who did?

Mr. Bissell. I don't know. What I was going to say is |

that I think the Director did. |
Mr, Schwarz. Guess, think, don’t know, You have got to
have @ basis, Mr. Bissell, for testifying to something-

Mr. Bissell. All right.

the bafis is, a8 has been in so much of my testimony,
how business was conducted within the Agency at that time.
There had been, as the Fxhibit 1 cable suggests, there had
already been consideration at high levels in the Agency and
elsewhere of the elimination of Lumumba. Obviously I had
peen involved in conversations With the Director on that sub-
ject. Given the way business was conducted, I would infer that
t would have told the Director of my assignment to O'Donnell.

Mr. diGenova. Mr. Bissell, you are telling us that
you don't remember this, is that correct?

Mr. Bissell. ghat 1s right

Mr. diGenoya. you have seen this Exhibit No. 1 which

TOP SECRET



prone (arte 202) S44-6000

ial
c.
c
ol

So
c
Cc
a

mR

es
ECRE

“rn high quarters here it is the clearcut conclusion
that if LLL continues to hold high office inevitable result
will be chaos®, +

And then it goes on and says:

“Consequently we conclude that his removal must be an
urgent prime objective and that under existing conditions
this could be a high priority covert action”.

That is dated August 26, 1960, signed, according to your

identification of his signature, by Mr. Dulles personally.

And it follows by one day a meeting in the white House of the
Special Group attended by the President of the U.S,, where
Dulles said he would procéed --

Mr, Baron. I don't think this meeting was attended by
the President.

Mr. diGenova. Excuse me, attended by Mr. Dulles ==
where he said he would proceed as vigorously as the situation
permitted, And it was agreed that the planning for the
Congo would not necessarily rule out consideration of any
particular kind of activity which might contribute to getting
rid of Lumumba.

Does that in any way refresh your recollection about
what was happening at that time?

Do you remenber anything independently of what Mr
pulles was talking to you about? We had trouble areas in the:

world, including Cuba, and the African Continent in particular:

TOP SECRET



Does that refresh your recollection -in any way
independently?

Mr, Bissell. Well, my recollection, I think, is
pretty clear about the atmosphere at the time. And I think
it da quite ‘eloquently described in the cable which you
have just quoted. And I have already said that I think
probably, from the evidence of the format of that document,
Twas absent from Washington at the time when it was sent.
But I certainly would have seen that when Z returned, and
it certainly would have been the subject of conversation
between Dulles and myself. It is for that reason that I
draw the inference that Justin O'ponneli's assignment would
have been reported by me to Allen Dulles.

Mr, diGenova. But you personally don't remember
discussing this with Mr. Dulles?

Mr. Bissell. No.

Mr. diGenova. You conclude now that you must have be~
cause of the physical evidence?

mr. Bissell. Could I just interrupt for a moment to
say, I used to see Mr. Dulles almost daily during these years
It was rare that we would meet without touching on perhaps
sever) on-going operations or plans or prospects. And thisy
over a period of several years. It is not, I think surpris-

ing that rarely have I been able in the course of my testi-

mony to say, } specifically remenber a particular meeting, and

TOP SECRET



even roughly what was sdid of it.
Mr, diGenova. Mr. Bissell, that ia somewhat important
obviously, because the idea is to try, if possible, to estab-

lish what the precise facts were.

mmone fares 202) 548-6000

Now, I am sure you don't mean to say that the assassina |
tion of a foreign leader blurs into the everyday activity of |!
the Agency because it was so commonplace ~~ or is that what
you mean to say? .

Mr. Bissell. No, I don’t. But I do mean to gay
that; the Agency had put a top priority, probably, on a range
of different methods of getting rid of Lumumba in the sense
of either destroying him physically, incapacitating him, or

eliminating his political influence. And a conversation

about this particular facet of what was a many-sided attack on

3
:

the problem doesn't stand out in my mind,

Mr, diGenova, What you are saying, then, is the de~
tails of any specific day or meeting or cable you don't
recollect, but you don't have any trouble recollecting the
fact that the assassination of Lumumba, among others,

was part of a strategy at that time, if needed?

Mr. Bissell. Yes.

Mr. Baron. And that was part of a strategy at the
level of the National Security Council as well as within the
AGency? ;

Mr. Bissell. I believe that the language quoted would

TOP SECRET



is)

aA

A

7

3
*
°
:

go indicate, yes.

Mr. Schwarz. bid you attend any meeting of the National
Security Council?

Mr. Bissell. I don't remember any on this subject,
and I don't think I did. I very rarely attended the NSC
as such, or its so-called planning committee. Robert Amory
was the agency representative on that, and I have already
said -- well, I did not by any means always, I would say not

more than half the time, attended Special Group meetings

And since I also think Iws out of town when that was
sent, it seems to me highly unlikely that I was at the Special,
Group meeting the day before that cable was sent.

Mr, Baron. I think we should introduce for the record
as Exhibit 2 the memorandum for the record of that
Special Group meeting of August 25, 1960, which records Mr.
Dulles being present, and does not list yourself as one of
the participants. And it contains a paragraph substantially
as Mr, diGenova related it where Gordon Gray, who was at
that time Special Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs, commented that his associates -- and we have
testimony by Thomas Parrott, the Secretary who took these
minutes, that Mr. Gray's associate was a euphemism to refer to
the President.

{The document referred to was
marked Bissell Exhibit No. 2 for

dentification.)

TOP SECRET.



Prone Ares 207) S4-6000

3
ry
Fy

et. 8-6. Washington, 6. 10804

Mr. Bissell. Correct.

Mr. Baron. “Mx. Gray commented that his associates
had expressed extremely strong feelings on the necessity for
very straightforward action in this situation, and he wondered
whether the plans as outlined were sufficient to accomplish
this.

"Mr. Dulles replied that he had taken the comments re~
ferred ta seriously, and had every!intention of proceeding as
vigorously as the situation permits or requires, but added tha
he must necessarily put himself in a position of interpret-
ing instructions of this kind within the bounds of necessity
and capability. It was finally agreed that planning for the
Congo would not necessarily rule out ‘consideration’ of any
particular kind of activity which might contribute to
getting rid of Lumumba".

when the next day after this meeting Mr. Dulles
gends out the telegram or the cable that we have already
discussed.

Mr. Bissell. Right.

Mr. Baron. Would you asaume that Mr. Dulles'cable,
which was sent to Leopoldville, was a direct outgrowth of
this meeting that he had attended the previous day?

Mr. Bissell. Obviously, sir.

Mr. Dawson, Bo you know?

Mr. Bissell. 1 think there!is no question on the

TOP SECRET.



3
2
g
:

1, Sib, wastunaton, 0.6. 70903

basis of the documents.

Mr. Baron. po you assume that assassination was one
of the means of removing Lumumba from the scene that is
contemplated within the language of Mr- Dulles’ cable?

Mr, Bissell. Correct ~~ and also the language reported
in the minutes of the Special Group.

Mr. Baron. Ana that would be in essence language-~

Mr. Bissell. Could just interrupt to say in

elaboration of that point, you may remember that I perhaps un-{

i
fortunately used the word *circumiocutious” in earlier testinoay
to describe the way this kind of topic was discussed. This
ls a prime example of it, When you use the language that :
no particular means were ruled out, that is obviously what it
meant, and it meant that to everybody in the room.

Mr. Wides, Meant what?

Mr. Bissell. Meant that if it had to be assassination,
that that was 4 permissible means. i

Mc. Baron, And that this was permissible in the eyes !
of the president, whose sentiments ~— who was being repre~
sented at the meeting by Gordon Gray?

Me. Bissell. At least permissible by his representatives
sitting in the room. You don't use language of that kind
except to mean in effect, the Director is being told, get
rid of the guy, and if you have to use extreme neans up

to and including assassination, go ahead,

TOP SECRET



3
‘
Py
&
3

srect, $ f., Washenatan, F.C, 70003

Mr. Baron. And in effect the Director is being
that by the President?

Mr, Bissell. Right.

Mr. Baron. Through his representative?

Mr. Bissell. Right.

Mr. Schwarz. Did Mr. Dulles tell you that President
Eisenhower wanted Lumumba killed?

Mr, Bissell. 1 am sure he didn't,

Mr. Smothers. pid he ever tell you even circum-

lecutiously through this kind of cable?

Mr. Bissell. Yes, I think his cable says it in effect.

Mr. Smothers. Was this a thing that was clearly under- "
stood here by everyone? What was that in your experince with
the Agency that had prepared you to understand this kind of
coded dialogue, if you will? Was assassination something
that was discussed fairly often?

Mr, Bissell. No, Z would say really very infrequently,
very infrequently even discussed, let alone attempted.
put I submit that the language just quoted from the minutes
of the Special Group was not language internal to the Agency,
it was language from a Cabinct level committee.

You may remember another document that was offered earliar
in my testimony which was again minutes of a Special Group
meeting, and it quoted Livingston Merchant, the State Depart~

ment representative, again asking if there was no way to get

TOP SECRET



rid of the Castro leadership in that case, I am sure you
remember that document.

Now, when sentor political officers meet in & Cabinet
Committee, especially when some kind 6f a record is being
kept, they do talk around a subject of that kind. But it
doesn't mean that it is obscure or not understood by anyone
there. I believe in both of these caces it is perfectly

clear -- in the first Livingston Merchant case it is clear

he was raising a question at to whether physically getting

rid of these people was possible, and in the second case, tl
one just quoted here, it seems to me that -- if you like to
call it that the consensus of the Special Group was that
sno means should be excluded in the effort to get rid of
Lumumba”.

and that, I repeat, is not CIA language. If it is

gobbledegook it is on a good high level.

Mr. Dawson. Is Mr. Gray in this cable or memorandum
for the Special Group on August 25, 1960, conveying the fee
of his associate, which we have identified clearly as
president Eisenhower?

Mr. Baron. Moving back now to the testimony of the
Chief of Station who was in Leopoldville in 1960, he said
that shortly after he received this cable that a messenger
would come whom he would recognize and who would give him

2a
i instructions to carry out, He received « visit from Mr.
2

TOP SECRET

4
i
that

he

ring



<
@
c
c
c
ne

And we have discussed that visit. He then goes
on to testify that Br. Gottlieb gave to him, or told him that
he would very shortly thereafter receive, some lethal biclogi-
cal substances, and the tools for administering those sub-
stances, namely, a syringe, gauze maska, and rubber gloves.
Were such lethal biological substances sent down to the
congo?

Mr. Bissell, I don't know. I assume the record shows
one way or the other, I don't have a recollection of that. H
I was really rather surprised on the occasion of
the earlier testimony to have it reported that they had been | ;
sent.

Mr. Baron. Would you assume now, hearing this testimony,
that indeed such substances were sent to the Congo?

Mr. Bissell. I think what you have told me, repeating

the evidence of the Station ‘Chief,that Dr. Gottlieb told

_him to expect that, is that correct?

Mr. Wides. The testimony is that the materials were
brought by Pr. Gottlieb or essentially arrived while he was
there, and that he went over their use with the Station Chief.
That doesn't refresh your recollection at ali with regard --

Mr. Bissell. No, it doesn't, But I am sure if the
Station Chief so testified it is correct, there is nothing
in mind that I remember that would be in conflict with that.

Mr. Baron. It would not have been against the policy

TOP SECRET



fmane (Ares 202) 544-6000

‘
a
:

LS weasmingtenn, Date

10 Fine

at that point for the AGency to have proceeded to the point
of sending poison to the Congo?

Mr. Bissell. No, it would not.

Mr. Wides. You draw a distinetion before between what
you called the planning stage and the implementing stage. I
take it it was not common to send lethal means by the use of
such a highly unusual messenger to a foreign country and
turn them over to a Station Chief as distinct from experi-
menting in the laboratory in Washington?

Mr. Bissell. The phrase I used, or tried to use,
most of the time was the phrase of planning and preparation
versus the phrase of implementation.

Mx. Wides. By implementation do you mean simply the
actual commencement of =~

Mx, Bissell. Of an active assassination, yes.

To answer your first question as directly aa I can,
it was the practice, if I remember correctly, that devices
or agents, biological agents, or other things of this sort,
that some stocks of these were kept in certain major stations
overseas. 1 would be very surprised if that were not the

case, and had not earlier been the case in thef Station

nae
at, and in théjomgjstations, because these were,

big organizations.

Mr. Wides. These were lethal biological agents?

Mr. Bissell. I suspect,yes.

TOP SECRET



ots $6 Weantsat08, 0.670007

Mr. Dawson. And the purpose for these stockpiles would

have been ~~ -

we, Bissell. In case there was @ sudden need for their
use, 20 that there would not be a logistic problem.

tir, Dawson, To use for what? To kill people?

vir, Bissell. I suppose so, if they were truly lethal
agents.

vr, Wides. You say you suspect 80.

De you have any recollection that you were at the time
aware of such stockpiles abroad?

Mr, Bissell. If there were I am sure I was aware of

it, and I seem to remember that in the two biggest overseas
stations there were ona or two or three staff members who in
effect represented the Technical Services Division.
I could be wrong on this, but that, for what it is worth
my recollection of the organizational pattern.
Now, to come back to your question again, however, it would
indeed have been rather unusual to send such materials ~~
a specific kit, if you like, of this sort -- out to 4 rela~
tively small station, unless planning for their use were
quite far along.

Mr. Wides. Ia it fair to say, then, that your
dichotomy between planning and your use of the term implo~
mentation would mean that if -- let us take a different

example ~- a sniper rifle and special bullets were sent



Prone (A094 702) 344-6900

"TOP. SECRET

to the city where they were to be used, and there was re-
connaissance, and every step necessary to actually carry out
the execution, that the implementation as far as your use

of the material would not start until someone actually picked
up the rifle and pointed it at him?

Mr. Bissell. Let me try to sharpen it by reference,
if my memory serves, to the Dominican Republic, It is there,
if I remember, that submachine guns were sent down to the
Station by CIA, The State Department never authorized the
release of those to the anti-Trujilio piotters. And I
believe they never were relaased.

Now, in that case, to take that example, I would say
that implementation would have started at the moment that you
turned these over and they passed out of our control, 1
would say that as long as any weapon of any kind remained
securely within the Agency's control, that you were still
short of what I would call --

Mr. Schwarz. Doesn't that turn on the nature
ef the order to the Agency personne! who has them?

Mr. Bissell. It does, right.

Mr. Schwarz, In the Lumumba case, was the AGency
person who had the lethal agents authorized to use them to
kill Lumumba?

Mr. Bissell. To that question I do not know the answer

Clearly the Station Chief had been not only authorized but

TOP SECRET



oot Ea, Wasmengtin, OC, 29903

210 Fine

encouraged, as we have developed =~ as you have developed --
in this testimony to seek out individuals who might have
close access to Lumumba for the purpose of hostile action
against him. Clearly the Station Chief was then sent, or
a kit was then brought out to him and put in his possession,
presumably so that if and when an individual with suitable
access and other appropriate circumstances materialized and
authorization was given, if it was still required, the

operation could proceed.

Mr. Baron. Let me see if I can refresh your recollec-

tion on that one point, whether authorization had been given.

The Chief of Station testified that when Sidney Gottlieb
one

gave him polaon or instructions in the use of poison, he
also made it very clear that these were for the purpose of
assassinating Lumumba, and that he should proceed to carry
out the assassination of Lumumba if it were possible, that the}
use of poison was not a sine qua non to the assassination,
if he could find another way to do it, that would be fine,
but that it was clear that he was to proceed with an assassin-
ation operation if he could find a way to do it successfully.
Mr. Bissell. Accepting that testimony, then, the
authorization was given,
Mr. Schwarz, -But we are dealing with your testimony,
Mr, Bissell, WE have his testimony, and your comments on his

testimony doesn't add much to the record,

TOP SECRET



3
e
3

Siiret, $.6.. Wauninaton, x0. 2400)

ators

TOP" SECRET

Me. Biasell. No.

Mr. Schwarz. Did you or anybody else, as far as you

authorize him to do the act?

Do you recall any fact which beara upon that? or is
your mind ablank on that subject?

Mr. Bissell. Tam afraid, ae far as recollection is
concerned, that my mind is a blank on that subject. I know
the Committee doesn't find inference particularly helpful,
but I would strongly infer cin this case that such an author-

ization did pass through me, as it were, if Sid Gottlieb
gave that firm instruction to the Station Chief,

Mr, Baron. You say passed through you. From what
source would it have passed?

Mr. Bissell. From the Director. As I would recon-
struct the sequence of events, the Director, after the meet-
ing and the cable in late August, made it clear that this was
to go forward -- to me that this was to go forward if and
when feasible circumstances permitted it, and it was on that
basis.that I would have authorized \Gottlich to deliver by
word of mouth such instructions from the Station Chief,

That is a highly unusual procedure, even in a sensitive
matter of this sort.

Mr. Schwarz. What is unugual about it?

Mr. Bissell. That the authorization should have been

by word of mouth rather than by cable. I don’t mean a cable

TOP SECRET



setting it forth in as many words, with you thie would have
been identified with a project name by thia time, and it is
most unusual that even with a highly sensitive project that
the nature is known to very few, probably only to the Station

Chief itself. |

What I would have expected is an authorizing cable saying,

implement project such and such

Mr, Schwarz, But in the normal -coursevof {CIA
assassination activity, if I may use that term --

Mr, Bissell. In the abnormal course

Mr, Schwarz. -~ you would have been instructed by
Mr. Dulles to do something?

Mr. Bissell. Instructed or authorized,

Mr. Schwarz, And then you would have spoken to or

cabled some other officer?

Mr. Bissell. Correct. And knowing Mr. Gottlieb,

it is literally inconceivable to me that he would have acted
beyond his instructions.

Mr. Baron. The Chief of Station, to be fair to his
testimony, indicated that he was greatly surprised when he
received such instructions, and he was doubtful about the
practicality of pulling off such an operation, at the
least he was convinced it would be difficult. But he dia
say -- he added that as a fairly junior Chief of Station he

might have checked back before he could have mounted such an

TOP SECRET



mone {Ares 202) $44.6000

wanna Pau

operation. But he added that he believatthe assassination

was expected of him, and he left Mr. Gottlieb with the im-

pression that he would proceed to try to perform such a mission.

Mr. Wides. He also cabled. :

Mr. Baron. Now, the next step that the Chief of
Station took after Mr. Gottlieb departed from the Congo,
according to his testimony, was to cable to headquarters
for confirmation of such an extraordinary mission,

Did you receive such a cable from Leopoldville?

Mr. Bissell. The record would have to show that.

don't remember it.

Mr. Baron. The Chief of Station also testified that
he shortly thereafter received confirmation back in cryptic
fashion to the effect that he was to proceed with the in-
structions to carry out the instructions he had been given.

Did you sent such.confirmation to him?

Mr. Bissell. I assume so, if the cable went out.

Mr. Baron, And that confirmation would have come

from yourself directly as opposed to Bronson Tweedy or anyone

“else in the African Division?

Mr. Bissell. Probably.

But again, if you have that cable, the initials would
show who signed off on it, and so on.

Mr. Schwarz. These cables have not been found,

Mr, diGenova, The Committee is making an effort to

TOP SECRET



z
H

“TOP SECRET oO ,

them, and the AGency has not been able to produce them yet.

Mr. Bissell, If it ia any help for me to say, this
sounds highly likely as an account if it is established, as
evidence seems to have established, that pr. Gottlieb brought
such instructions, I would expect the Station to seek con-
firmation. And I would expect, given the background, that
that confirmation would have been forthcoming. And I would
also be almost certain that I would have signed off on such
acable, or signed such a cable, initialled it, even if it
had been going to Mr. Dulles for final approval.

Mr. Baron. These events occurred in early September
which was prior to your conversations with Justin O'Donnell
about the assassination of Lumumba?

Mr. Bissell. Yes.

Mr. Baron. So at that point an assassination mission
had in effect been mounted in the Congo?

Mr. Bissell. Right.

Mr. Baron. After you spoke with Justin 0'Donnell,
did you send a cable to Leopoldville to stand down the
assassination mission?

Mr. Bissell, Again, I would have to go back to the
record. :

Mr. Wides. Was it your testimony earlier that you

have no recollection of discussing with Mr. Gottlieb the.

possible assassination of Lumumba?

TOP SECRET



prone (Area 202) 544-6000

3
9
2
5

10 Fest sures, $6. Wasiaaton, 1.6, 200069

“TOP SECRET

Mr. Bissell. | I thought I testified earlier thia
afternoon that I might well havediscussed it with him, but
I don't have a specific recollection.

Mr. Wides. Let me read you an excerpt from your testi~
mony on June ll, where Nz. Schwarz was asking you about your
conversation with Mr. O'Donnell, and your request that he
investigate, in your words, the possibility of assassinating
Lumumba, And then on page 54 ~~ we should mark this --

Mr. Schwarz, dust read it in.

Mr. Wides. "Did you tell him thia in connection with
making plans to go see the passer of the poison, Mr. Gottlieb? |

"Mr, Bissell. I think I probably did,

Was that a ecollection at that time that you had
sent O'Donnell to see Dr. Gottlieb?

Mr. Bissell. No, I think that comes in the category
of inference rather than recollection, because I don't re~
member specifically telling \Dr. Gottlieb.

Me. Wides. Or speaking to'Dr. Gottlieb, explaining
the possible means to O'Donnell?

Mr. Bissell. 1 don't recollect it.

Mr. Baron, In the testimony of the Chief of Station
in Leopoldville he said that during his visit with Dr.
Gottligh, as I have related, he was extremely surprised when
he received these instructions. And the instructions were

so specific that he wanted to be very sure that the authoriza-

TOP SECRET



tion for this miseion was equally as specific, And he probed

“Dr. Gottlieb on the source of the authorization, and aaid --

something to the effect, who authorized thia mission.

Prone taste 702) $44-6000

The answer was, it came from the top, or something to
that effect.

And then the Chief of Station pushed on to pin it down.
And the response he got from Dr. Gottlieb was, something to
the effect that -~

Mr. Schwarz, Will you read the exact answer?

Mr. Baron. I will read you from Mr. Hedgman's testi-
mony. At page 30, quoting from the testimony of the Chief
of Station in the Congo at that point, testifying under the
alias of Hedgman, the Chief of Station said:

"In essence I must have ~- and again I am guessing

3
a
a
5

as to what my wording was ~~ must have pointed out that this

was not a common or usual Agency tactic, and I may have
probably said that I had never heard of it being done -- which
“zt had not, never in my training or previous work in the
Agency had I ever heard any reference to such, in my recollec~
tion at least, such methods. And it is my recollection, I
asked on whose authority these instructions were issued.

"Mr. Wides. And what did tr. Gottlieb reply?

"Mr. Hedgman. It is my recollection that he identified

Sievet 5, Wasnanyion, 8.6, 90003

the President -- and I cannot -- the President of the U.S. --

and I cannot recall whether he said the President or whether

TOP SECRET



3
ny
5

easminanan, OE.

he identified him by name".

qhen the testimony proceeds to the bottom of page 31:

yr. wides. Can you recall whether he said ‘the Presi-

or ‘President Eisenhower'?

Mg, Hedgman. 1 cannot recall whether he just said ~~
whether he said the President or whether “he said President
Eisenhower.

"Mr. Wides. But it was one of those two, is your
best recollection?

"Mr. Hedgman. I would say almost certainly”-

Further down the page Mr. Hedgman continues?

>y nave trigg: to go back in my mind on that, and 1
think, 1 believe -~ but again now this one is pretty loose in
my mind -- it was something to the effect that the President
had instructed the Director".

And then on page 33 Mr. Dawson says:

“you are not the least unclear whether or not you
came away with a very clear impression that the President's
name had been invoked in some fashion?

“Me, Hedgman. yes, I came -- certainly that is my
recollection”.

pid Mr. Gottlieb make you aware at this point that he
had made such a representation to the Chief of Station?

Mr, Bissell. i have no such recollection.

Mr, Baron. was Mr. ‘Gottlieb authorized to make such

TOP SECRET



2 representation thatithe President of the U.S. had authorized
the assassination of Lumumba?

Mr. Biasell. I can't answer that question. But what
probably occurred was ~~

Mr. Dawson. Wait a minute. Let's not do it that wa

Ig there any doubt that you would have undertaken ~~
assuming that you did so instruct Mr. Gottlieb to carry this
poison inte the Congo -- that you would have done this with-
out Mr. Dulles’ authority?

Mri Bissell. There was no possibility.

Mr. Dawson. Is there any doubt in your mind that you
would have then assumed that Dulles had received the
President's okay to do so?

Mr. Dissell. Well, 1 might well have believed that the

Director was proceeding under the mandate of the Special

Group as reported in |the minutes of the meeting.
Mr, Schwarz. Bid you tell Gottlieb anything about
President Eisenhower?
Mr. Bissell. I probably did, but I don*t remember
Mr. Schwarz. Did Dulles tel} you anything about
president Eisenhower?
Mr. Bissell. He aimost certainly would have
me a good deal about that meeting.
Mr. Schwarz. By that meeting ~~

Mr. Bissell. The Special Group meeting.

TOP SECRET



mmone (Area 2021 544-6000

I think it is probably unlikely that Allen Dulles would have
said either the President or President Eisenhower even to me.
I think he would have said, this is authorized in the highest
quarters, and I would have known what he meant.

Mr. Baron. And you have communicated that to Mr,
Gottlieb? “

Mr. Bissell. I could very easily.

Mr. Schwarz. Is all of that line that we have just

went through could and would and might, and inference, or
is any of that recollection?

Mr. Bissell. I am afraid it has to be described as
inference.

Mr. diGenova. But you didn't make up the minutes of
the Special Group meeting on August 25 and you didn't make up
the cable which Mr. Dulles signed either, did you?

Mr. Bissell. No.

Mr. diGenova. So that was actually sent out, wasn't

Mr. Bissell. Yes.

Mr. diGenova. And Mr. Dulles wasn't one who used
highest quarters, was he?

Mr, Bissell. Yes -- and also the minutes of the
Special Group referred to Mr. Gray's associate

Mr, Wides. And your testimony a moment ago in response

to Mr. dawson'’s question was, even though this fell within

TOP SECRET



teet, 8 Es, Masmengien, D.C. 7003

what you regarded as the planning stage, this meaning if it
occurred, Dr. Gottlieb taking the poison to the Congo, that
you would not have taken that step without the approval of
the Director, was that your testimony?

Mr. Bissell. What I will:now say at any rate is that
the mere act of taking the kit to the Congo I would clasaify
as still in the planning stage. But if it be taken as es-
tablished that Mr. Gottlieb took specific instructions "to
implement", I would say that we had then passed into an im-
plementation phase.

Mx. Wides. Let me read to you from your teetimony on
June 11, and then ask you a question based on that.

On page 54 Mr. Schwarz said:

"who authorized you to tell Mr. O'Donnell to take steps
to move toward assassinating Mr. Lumumba?”

And you said: "No one".

And then Mr. Schwarz:

“Did you inform the White House of that?"

"No."

"To the best of your knowledge did anybody inform the

House of that?”

"Mr. Bissell. To the best of my knowledge, no.

"Mr, Schwarz. Why did you seek to assassinate Mr.
Lum mba?

“Mr. Bissell. I didn't seek to assassinate him. I

TOP SECRET



Prowe are

told the members of the clandestine service to make plans
and develop the capability so to do if it were approved and

ordered."

Now, in regard to your answer that no one had told you

te tell Mr. O'Donnell to take steps to move toward assassinat~ —

ing Mr. Lumumba, I take it that reading that now in the

context of other information we have, that answer was not
intended to mean that -~ page 54 -- you were not then testi-
fying affirmatively that no one had spoken to you at a higher
level about trying to assassinate Lumumba, but merely in
regard to your discussion with O'Donnell, which you did recall

Mr. Bissell. My recollection -- and this I will des-
eribe as a recollection, it may be faulty -- is that it was
my own idea to give O'Donnell this assignment. He had, T
believe, recently completed some other, or there was a change
ef position of some kind, and he was available. And given
the backgroung which has here been established this afternoon,
I believe it was my notion to give him this assignment in
parallel to any other thingsthat were still going forward.

It would have been. unusual to have advised anybody
outside the Agency of a specific assignment to an individual
of that sort.

Mr. Wides. And the implication of the lack of author:~
zation from above yourself, or discussion with anyone above

yourself, was confined simply to the giving of the asignment

TOP SECRET



|
!
!

to Mr. O'Donnell?

Mr. Bissell. That is correct.

And it is my recollection, as I have testified in
Part earlier this afternoon, that when O'Donnell came later
and declined the assignment and expressed the view that this
was not the way to solve the problem, that r shut off the
©’Donnell operation completely.

Mr. Wides, Let me go back to that 4f I can. Mr.
O'Dennell's testimony, which I believe we went over with you
when you testified, we might ask you to see now if you have
any different recollection.

In essence it is the following: that you called
him in and asked him to go to the Congo for the purposes
of trying to see if Lumumba could be assassinated, that
very evening you asked him, right at that moment, and it was
toward the end of the day, as he recalled it, you asked him
to see Dr. Gottlieb; that he expressed reservation about
assassination, but dia go down to see Dr. Gottlieb, and
\Dr. Gottlieb discussed with him several lethal means, and he
inmediately came back to your office and said, I won't
do it, and raised legal questions, moral questions --

Mr. Dawson. I don't think he testified that he imme—
diately came back.

Mr. Schwarz. The same day.

Mr. Wides. Same day -- and that he then went next

TOP SECRET



Pome (Aces 262) 544-6000

ry
:

door, as I say, and discussed it with Mr. Helms

This is Mr. O'Donnell's testimony.

Mr. O'Donnell further testified that he told you he
would be willing to go to the Congo to explore the possibility !
of neutralizing him in other ways, and that shortly thereafter
in the space of a few days went to the Congo. and I believe
the record suggests that he was there from October through
December, and that while he was looking into the possibility
of trying to get Lumumba cut of the property away from effect
ive custody of the U.N. with the thought that i€ the
Central Congolese Government obtain control of him, they night.
try him for capital crimes, and this might result in his
physical removal. And this was mooted by Lumumba's escape and
recapture and death, and he then came back. i

Is it still your recollection that there was a period
of several weeks between the time you broached the subject
of an assassination and the time that Mr. O'Donnell
expressed his opposition to it?

Mr. Bigsell, I shouldn't be firm on the several weeks
But my recollection of the course of events differs in, 1
think, only ene -- or is inconsistent with his recollection
as you reported it in only the one respect, that the impres-
sion I carried away was that at a minimum some days -- and
I had thought a period of at least a week elapsed between

my giving him the assignment and his coming back to decline

TOP SECRET



Phone (Ares 202) $44-6000

g
<
5

the assignment and recommend a different approach. What
you further quote from his testimony I had not remembered, but
it does now seem to me that I do remember -- part of my
original recollection was that when he came back to me I have
several times used the phrase, this was not the way to deal
with the problem of Lumumba, And that is wholly consistent
with his having proposed other means of neutralizing Lumumba
short of using physical’ violence on him directly. 1 do seem
to recollect that.

And although I had not remembered it, I do now seem to
recollect that he went out there and with the assignment,
most of it in his recollection rather than mine, of looking

at other ways of neutralizing Lumumba. But my recollection

simply differs from his on the matters of the timing and how
goon he came back.

Mr. Wides. Do you recall when you proposed: to Mr
Harvey, in what I think we concluded was most probably very
early 1961, that he explore executive action capability,
and that two people who had been cut in in some way on earlier
considerations or explorations of assassination, and two
people whom therefore he might discuss this with, were Mr.
TRA ana\sianey Gottlieb?

Mr. Bissell. I can't say honestly that I recollect

that, But especially with respect to\Gottlieb, this would

have been absolutely -- I am reasonably sure that is what

TOP SECRET



Prone (Aves 202) $44-6000

I would have done.

Mr. Wides. But you don't recall auggesting -- ‘or if
he brought 4t up, approving -- his discussing it with them, in
part from a security angle, because Mr. Gottlieb had already
nme
been cut in, so to speak, with regard to prior considerations
of assassination possibilities?
Mr, Bissell. Well, I an.sorry to have to retreat

the inference. I think I would have encouraged him to talk

to them myself. And I don't think I would have particularly

worried at that point about the security implications.

Mr. Wides. De you recall why you would have encouraged.
him or suggested that he speak +o [SE 07
Mr. Bissell. No, unless FRENSMWSMtes had had some
connection with this operation. And I don't remember what
the circumstances were
Mr. Baron, Do you recall an agent who weat by the
eryptonym of QUWINN that I believe we discussed in your
earlier testimony?

Mr. Bissell. i dimly remember that there was such,

Mr. Baron. Do you recall that he worked for O'Donnell

in the Congo and was sent there by Petgrehigethierm who had

recruited him in Europe?
Mr. Bissell. I didn't recollect that.

Mr. Wides. Does it ring a bell of any sort?

TOP SECRET



Prone (area 202) 544-6000

6, Sfesnimaton, 9.6. 28909

TOP SECRET

Mr. Bissell. Well, there was an agent recruited in
Europe who was used against the Lumumba faction in the
Congo.

-Now, the agent x have in mind, he was extremely success-
ful. He made a deep penetration of not only the Lumumba
sympathizers, but also of those individuals physically lo-
sated in Europe who were supplying Lumumba with money, and in
Some cases giving him logistic support. This agent was ob-
viously engaged in an extremely hazardous business, because
if his cover had been blown he certainly would have been,

I think, killed,

Now, this may be the agent in question. I do not
remember that agent ever being Put under O'Donnell's contzol.
But if O'Donnell was given the assignment to find ways of
neutralizing Lumumba, given that assignment to O'Donnell
when he went out there, it is very possible that this
agent would have been put in touch with him.

Mr. Schwarz, Why did you pick O'Donnell, incidentally,
for the initial assignment, the part that was killing him,
as opposed to other methods of neutralizing him?

Mr. Bissell. My recollection is that I regarded him
as highly competent in the craft, I think correctly. 1
regarded him, I think incorrectly as the events turned out,
as a very tough guy in the sense this guy Harvey had,that

such reputation, and I think with hindsight deserved it.

TOP SECRET



“gee

2 : aCe
And I suspect. ~ etion*that ‘about ‘that

time, in the fall of “1
some previous assignment.

Hr, Wides. And you had had contact with him in regard
to his being Station Chief of partes the U-2 program?

Mr. Bissell. Yes, I guess 80. And other contacts, J
had known him in the agency.

Mr. Baron, Let's see if this refreshes your recollec~
tion on the use of QJWINN, He subsequently became the
principal asset in the 2RRIFLE program under Harvey's
direction?

Mr. Bissell. Yes.

Mr. Baron. And Harry apparently arranged wien

“who was supervieing QIWINN in Europe, to have QUWINN
spot potential assets for the ZRRIFLE progran in Europe.

Does -that refresh your recollection as to QUWINN's

mission in the Congo?

Mr, Bissell. It suggests to me that the man I had

in mind was not QIWINN, bet a different agent. And I don’t
remember, I don't remember a thing about it.
Mr. Baron. What was QJWINN's mission in. the Congo?

Mr. Bissell. I can only surmise that he had some

S.E., Washinyton, 9.€. 70003

connection -- that either he had the means of “getting close
to Lumumba", or that he had connections that might provide --

Mr. Baron. I will represent to you that there is a

TOP SECRET



et, $.6., Washington, D.C. 20993

memo on Novenbex 1960, sent by wiilian Harvey in his
capacity as Chief of staff p to siwar}witn a copy
going to Bronson Tweedy that describes QJWINN, and talks at
great length about his mission in the Congo, without pin-
pointing it. The memo talks about the fact that it is an
extremely sensitive operation, and that QUWINN himself wouldn'
be told the purpose of it before he is sent down there,

Does that refresh your recollection about hia miasinn?

Mr. Bissell, I am afraid not.

Mr. Baron, If there were a mission in the Congo at :

that point for Staff D purposes, what would that mission have

been?

i
i
!
Mr. Bissell, The Staff D'was concerned with communicatid

intelligence, as you know. And I would surmise that a Staff

D connected mission in the Congo would have involved *

planting means of listening to conversation or traffic or in
some other way intercepting communications. That is the
competence of Staff D and its responsibility.

Mr. Baron. Planting by means of surreptitious entry
er by other means?

Mr. Bissell. | Yes, although Staff D wasn't concerned
with bugging people's rooms or this kind of thing. It is
concerned with true communications intelligence, or it was
at that time.

Mr. Baron. T£ you had informed William Harvey at the

TOP SECRET



. S06., Warmington, B.C. 20007

Phone (Ares 202) 544-6000

point when executive action was being sent up that q7noumsutay

g@iiee already cut in on the discussions of an assassination
capability, would you assume that that referred to Baap

CRA reeevision of QUWINN,

Mr. Bissell. Well, it could have, It sounds that

Mr, Baron; When you told Harvey that Gottlieb had
already been cut in on the discussions of an assassination
capability, fit that refer back to Gottlieb's activities in
reference to the Congo?

Mr. Bissell. Well, it probably referred to those ~~ and
perhaps to earlier discussions or more generalized discussions
with Gottlieb in his capacity as science advisor, and there~
fore someone who would be knowledgeable of weapons of various
kinds.

Mr. Schwarz. pid you have such discussions with him?

Mr. Bissell. I believe so.

Mr. Schwarz. And that, now, is a recollection, I
take it from the way you are speaking?

Mr, Bissell. It is closer to that than most
of what I have to say.

Mr. schwarz. What is your recollection of the dis~
cussion with Gottlieb?

Mr. Bissell. Over a considerable period of months

when he was in that capacity ~~

TOP SECRET



phone {Aces 202) 544-6000 *

ject, 5:€.,asningtan, 0.£, 20003

Schwarz. - Which started ‘when?

Bissell. I don't remembe
Mr. Schwarz. 1960?
Mr. Bissell. I think it was 1960. And the back-
ground, as I am sure the record shows, was that Dr. Gottlieb
had been in TSD, and he had then gone for a tour of duty, I

believe, to where he continued in the same kind of

work. But he had a much closer connection with espionage
operations and counter espionage in the field. When I brought
him back his mission in effect was a very broad.one,it really
was to find ways and means -- to concentrate on technical ways!
and means, meaning by technical within the general area of
the physical and bielogical sciences, of improving the effect-
iveness of all kinds of covert operations.

Now, in a sense that was-the mission of the Technical

Services Division itself, | But Gottlieb's role was to pay

special attention to the interconnections between the
technical people in TSD and the operators in the rest of the
clandestine service, and to find out whether the technical
requirements that TSD was “striving to meet were appropriate,

in other words, did they really know what the operators needed

‘and wanted, and also to find out if the operators knew what

TSD had available. It was that kind of a thing.
_Now, I had many conversations with him on that, because

this was a success that interested me a great deal. And 1

TOP SECRET



3
‘
2
5

|. 5E., weayminaten, 0.6, 20003

Prone (Arse 202) $44-6000

had great respect for hia judgment. And especially given
this Congo involvement, I certainly would have discussed with
him, probably on a number of occasions, the availability of
means of incapacitation, including assassination.

wMr. Schwarz. And those discussions are prior to your
Harvey assignment?

Mr. Bissell. Yes, I believe so -- yes, they would

Mr. Schwarz. Would have been or were?

Mr. Bissell. Well, Harvey's assignment wasn't until
January of 1961, so they obviously were.

Mr. Wides, Mr. Bissell, with regard to the earlier
@iscussion with your sense of authorization, you said that
you do recall the discussions with OfDennell, and that althoug!
you can't remember specific discussions with Tweedy, in
general you recall that you were looking into the possibility
of exploring and planning the possible assassination of
Lumumba?

Mr. Bissell. Right.

Mr. Wides. In the light of the documents from the
group and Mr. Duiles' cable that have been read, do you have
any recollection now whener you thought at your level you
had sufficient authority that even though you had not done
so you could direct people below you to carry from the

planning stage into the implementation stage an assassination

TOP SECRET



prone {Aras 202) 544-6009

5.£,, Wasninaton, B.C. 70002

of Lumumba at that tine?’ :

ur. Bissell. I probably 80 believed. I think, how-
ever, given the context, it ia very unlikely that T would
have taken such a atep without clearing it with Allen Dulles.

Mr, Widea. You say you probably so believe. Is
that based at all on a recollection, or simply inference?

Mr. Bissell. it ig the way my mind worked then, and
probably still does. You are asking me a question about whe~|{
ther I believed I had cauthoritye*”

Mr. Wides. Yes.

Mr. Bissell. A good many years ago, and I am saying
that given the evidence here and the background as it has
been developed here this afternoon, it is my recollection thati
given the way my mind works, T probably did think I had
authority-

put it is also very unlikely.

Mc. Schwarz, There are two parts of your answer which
were at war with each other. On the one hand you say, based
upon having seen some Special Group minutes and a cable,
both of which say in effect that Killing should not be ruled
out as a matter of consideration ~~

Mr. Bissell. Right.

Mr, Schwarz. on the one hand you say that based upon
those two items, you probably believe you had authority to

order action?

TOP SECRET



Sc£., wasnington, 8.6, 20003

Mr. Bissell.

Mr. Schwarz. Move from contemplation to action or
consideration of action?

Mr, Bissell, Right.

Mr. Schwarz. On the other hand you say, well, yes,
although I probably believed that, on the other hand I
probably spoke to Mr, Dulles about it, or would have spoken
to Mr. Dulles about it.

Mr, Bissell. You will recognize that here again I am
taiking about the pattern of my relationship with him and the
way the Agency worked.

Now, here was a matter in which the authorization, such
as it was, had come down clearly from the Special Group to
Mr. Dulles personally.

Mr. Schwarz. Now, we are talking about the exhibits

which show an authorization -- assuming you read the words

as meaning killing --

Mr. Bissell. Not excluding, yes.

Mr. Schwarz. -- an authorization to consider that.

Mr. Bissell. Right.

Mr. Schwarz. And that had come down?

Mr. Bissell. It had come down to me via Allen
Dulles, and in terms that Allen was in effect being strongly

encouraged to pursue the course of action outlined in the

i
exhibit. 1 think under these circumstances that I would have ;

TOP SECRET



Prone gAree 202) 544-6000

gone back to him with, for instance, any cable of authoriza-
tion or other-instruction before sending it out even if I
did believe him.

But let us say in his absence from Washington I had the
authority to send.

Mr. Dawson. You say unlike the--case-of:.the-White Housd
where you would not take details back, in the cage of Mr.
Dulles you would discuss the, details of a specific operation?

Mr. Bissell. Yes.

Mr. Schwarz. But it is not really amatter of details,

Mr. Bissell. That is an important distinction. We have
been talking about a chain that starts with two memos, or three
memos. We have talked about contemplation or consideration,

don't rule out killing, it doesn't use the word killing, but ;

it could be read to mean killing, don't rule out killing from

the items to be considered.

Now, moving from doing it is not a detail, is it?

Mr. Bissell, No, I wouldn’t call it a detail by any
manner of means, but I would read that language as authorizing
any decision by the Director or the Director's authority.

Mr, Schwarz, You would read the language of the two
exhibits, one of which comes from the Administration
and one of which is the Director cable -~

Mr, Bissell. Right.

Mr, Schwarz, You would read the language of the

TOP SECRET



1.5.6. Wessnington, @.6, 70003

Group minutes

Mr,Baron, Of August 25, 1960.

Mr, Bissell. Right.

Mr. Schwarz. May I see that?

After talking about extremely strong feelings, straight— |
forward action, and Dulles commenting on taking this ser-
iously, proceeding vigorously, ‘the agreement is:

"rt was finally agreed that planning for the Congo
would not necessarily rule out ‘consideration’ of any
particular kind of activity which might contribute to
getting rid of Lumumba".

Now, the firet point, you read that to mean not
ruling out killing?

Mr. Bissell. Correct.

Mr. Schwarz. Now, was it just your testimony that
you believe that the agreement that planning for the Congo
would not necessarily rule out possible consideration of --
and now I will substitute the word killing -- is authority
to actually order the killing -- sufficient authority?

Mr. Bissell. May I look again at the other exhibit,
Mr. Dulles’ cable of the next day.

(Discussion off the record.)

Mr. Schwarz. Back on the record.

There is a pending question.

Mr. Bissell. It is my belief on the basis of the cable:

TOP SECRET



06.2903

that he regarded the action of the
Special Group 48 authorizing implementation if favorable

eircumstances presented themslves, if it could be done

covertly. ile speaks of targets of opportunity. He authorized,

as I remember the words of the cable "even more aggressive
action”.

And the tone of the cable clearly gives the Station
Chief a lot of latitude and conveys a sense of very great
urgency-

Mr. Schwarz. And whether or not that is a proper con~
struction of the Special Group ig not really something we necd
to discuss.

Finish the Congo, then.

Mr. Baron. I have one more guestion on Mr. Gottiieb’s
visist. And that is, in the light of the entire atmosphere
at the Agency and the policy at the Agency at that time,
nr, Gottlieb's representation to the chief of Station that
the President had instructed the DCL to carry out this
mission would not have been peyond the pale of Mr. Gottlieb’s
authority at that point?

Mr. Bissell. No, it would not.

Mr. Barone For the sake of the record,. let's intro~
duce as an exhibit the memo that I referred to earlier as
November 1960. And T will ask you one question about it.

this is a memo going from the Chief of KUTUBE/D. And that

_TOP SECRET

1
\



st
william Harvey at that tine.

Mr, Blasell. I believe so.

prone (Area 202) 544-6000 |

(The document referred to was
marked Bissell Exhibit No. 3

for identification.)

QS
C
a.
c
=
~

1. 5.0,, Wanmngion, 9.6, 20003

a0 Fit

TOP SECRET



rane Gates 202) 584-6000

3
z
2
3

it

you receive a copy of this cable?

1 think it is doubtful, and 1 don't
believe I would have, It is rather narrowly an operational
matter.

Mr. Baron, Thank you.
Next, let's turn to a cable that was sent on September
16, 1960, to Leopoldville from CIA Headquarters which we will
mark Exhibit 4.
(The document referred to was
marked Bissell Exhibit No. 4

for identification.)

TOP SECRET



t
3
£
ry
é
Pa

Mr. Baron. This is a cable that we reviewed, Mr.
Bisecll, before we began your testimony today. and I will
turn your attention to the paragraph that says:

"It is still difficult to determine whether Mobutu
had sufficient control amy to enforce decisions announced
night 14 September. Station advised" <-

And then there is a sanitized paragraph --

“station advised two moderate Congolese politicians
‘try work with key Congolese contact''in effort eliminate .
Lumumba. Fear UN protection will give Lumumba’ opportunity
organization counterattack. Only solution is remove him
from scene soonest".

Now, the night of September 14 was the night of a coup
in the Congo where Mobutu took power, is that correct?

Mr. Bissell. Correct.

Mr. Baron. And does this cable refresh your recollec-
tion as to the attitude at the Agency toward Lumumba even
after he was in U.N. custody?

Mr, Bissell. Yes. It seems to say rather clearly
that it was still desirable to eliminate him.

Mr. Baron. WAs it still your recollection, then, that
there was a continued sense of urgency about eliminating
Lumumba after he waa in U.N. custody?

Mr. Bissell. Yes.

Mr. Baron. And this would account in part for the fact

TOP SECRET



Prone (Ares 2021 $44-6000

3
:
J
z
2

ear © stand down the assassination
mission after Lumumba was in U.N. cuatoay?
Mr. Bissell. That ie correct.
Mr. Baron.There ia a set of NSC minutes from September
22, 1960, that I would like to introduce as Exhibit 5.
(The document referred to was

marked Bissell Exhibit No. $

for identification.)

TOP SECRET



910 Fuss Sireet, 5.6, van

emone (Aras 202) $4¢-4000

3
@
°
5

necessary.

Baron, You are. not Listed a8 & participant iat the
meeting, although Mr, Dulles is present, and the following
Paragraph relates a remark of Mr. Dulles;

“Mobutu appeared to be the effective power in the
Congo for the moment, but Lumumba was not yet disposed of
and remained a grave danger as long as he was not disposed or"

Does that accord with your understanding of the policy |
of the National Security Council toward Lumumba even after
he was in U.N. custody?

Mr. Bissell. It does,

Mr. Baron. And the language "disposed of" would contem=-
Plate assassination at least as one means of disposing of
him? ;

Mr. Bissell. As one means, as one possible means, if

Mr. Baron, I have one further exhibit which we

will mark Exhibit 6, that is, a cable dated December 17, 1960
sent to the Director from Leopoldville.
Tre document referred to was
marked Bisseli Exhibit No. 6

for identification.)

TOP SECRET



3
Fa
a
i

Mr. Baron. And this cable deals with an incident where
an asset of the Chief of Station who'-was. known by the cryptonym
WIROGUE made an approach to agent QJWIN. And the cable says:

“QoWIN, who resides same hotel as WIROGUE, reported that
he had lived Alaska, Japan, South America, Germany and other
parts Europe. QUWIN said, WIROGUE smells as though he in
intel business. Station denies any info on WIROGUE. 14
December QJWIN reported WIROGUE had offered hin $300 per
month to participate in intel net and be member execution
squad. When QJWIN said he not interested, WIROGUE added
there would be bonuses for special jobs. Under QUWIN
questioning, WIROGUE later said he worked for PvBi.PRIME
Service”.

Do you recall this incident?

Mr. Bissell, I don't, nos

Mr. Baron. Does P.B, Prime Service refer to the
American Intelligence Service?

Mr. Bissell. Yes, it does.

Mr. Baron. Namely, the CIA?

Mr Bissell. Yes.

Mr. Baron. Do you recall anything about the formation
of an execution squad in the Congo during this period?

Mr. Bissell. I take that to be 4 phrase used by an
agent.

(Discussion off the record.)

TOP SECRET



Towant to awitch, unfortunately,

from the Continent of Africa and go to Cuba. ‘This is the sama

time period, however, it is July of 1960.

Phone (Aree 202) 544-4000

I had a conversation with you on August 6 over the
telephone. You may recall the conversation. 1 have in front
of me & cable which we will mark as Exhibit No. 7.

(The document referred to was
marked Bissell Exhibit No. 7

for identification.)

4
3
é
fa
é
3

20005

Sireet, $.£., Waningtin, OC.

TOP SECRET



Mr. Baron. And this ig a cable sent from headquarters
to the Havana Station dated July 21, 1960. The first
sentence of the cable reads:

“possible removal top three leaders is receiving
serious consideration at headquarters”.

The cable is signed by E. H. Hinkle by direction Tracy
Barnes for DDP, and about E.H. Hinkle by direction J.C. King,
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division as authenticating officer.
Relseasing officer was Tracy Barnes.

De you have any independent recollection of that, cable
and what surrounded its:issuance at headquarters?

Mc. Bissell. I don't remember it until you mentioned it
to me in the telephone conversation to which you have alluded.

Mr. diGenova. Having had some time to think about it

3
s
°
e
Fd

since we spoke on August 6, does it ring any bell at this
juncture?

Mr. Bissell. It does not, I am afraid.

Mr. diGenova. It is apparent that this cable was
sent out at a time when you were having conversations in the
summer or the fail of 1960 with Mr. Tweedy and Mr. O'Donnell
concerning Mr. Lumumba, is that correct? _

Mr. Bissell, Correct.

Mr. diGenova. Did Mr. Dulles at any time during this
period or prior to it or subsequent to it ever issue a directive

assigning assassination as an agency action?

40 Fast Sires. 5:1. Warrington, O46. 20002

TOP SECRET



Phone {/Aree 202) 544-6000

13903

Wrasminaton, 0.6.

Mr. Bissell. Not 'to my knowledge.

Mr. diGenova. Do you have any knowledge as to whether
or not Mr. Dulles knew about the issuance of this cable which
stated that the possible removal of the top’ three leaders in
Cuba was receiving serious consideration at headquarters?

Mr. Bissell. I don't have knowledge of that, no.

You yourself quoted internal evidence from the cable and/

the one that was sent, a followup the following day, suggesting

that he may have ordered it countermanded.

that evening, indicated that he had sent this cable, and that

|
|
Mr, diGenova. ‘The duty officer at that particular tine!
i
f
i

he had been instructéd, as he recalled it by Mr. Barnes, to

send this cable, and that the wording came from Mr. Barnes.

Now, the duty officer also said that the next day when
he came in there was a-cable, which we have, and we /
will mark that as Exhibit No. 8, which in toto said: :
"Do not pursue reference, would like to drop matter."
And that was signed singly by Tracy Barnes.
(The document referred to was

marked Bissell Exhibit No. 8

for identification.)

TOP SECRET



mans (Ares 202) $44-6000

3
e
é
<
5

5.6, Wahenate

Mr. diGenova. : he duty officer who had iesued the
firat cable about serious consideration, he had no personal
knowledge, but he had heard that Mr. Dulles had countermanded
the original cable, talking about the possible removal,
and authorizing the approach’: to the agset, the Cuban pilot,
who actually attempted the crash of the plane which would
carry Raol Castro from Prague to Havana.

De you have any personal knowledge as to why Mr. Dulles
would have countermanded, assuming that he aia?

Mr, Bissell. I don't have any recollection, IT could
surmise lots of things.

Mr. diGenova. What I want to ask you is this: do
you have an independent recollection that any assassination
efforts against the Cuban leaders which were being considered

contmmplated simultaneous action against all three, other~

wise it would be useless action? |
Mr, Bissell. The only evidence I know of, hard evidence!
is the Special Group minute to which I referred earlier, :
which was an exhibit in earlier testimony.

Mr. diGenova. You are referring to the Merchant cable
exchange of November 3, 1960?

Mr. Bissell. That is correct.

Mr. diGenova. Now, Mr. Hinkle, the duty officer,

has no personal: knowledge about’ the rescission of that cable.

Does it seem to you upon reflection, knowing what you

TOP SECRET



Prone (Aves 202] 544-6000”

3
f
‘
°
é
‘
3

Stree, Sf, Masnington. 1.6.

know -- for example, Mr. Dulles cable to the Congo personally
authorizing, apparently, the assassination of Mr. Lumumba,
“and $100,006 to do it is it inconsistent to your way of
thinking that he would have authorized that assassination and
would have rescinded this cable that would have apparently
authorized the assassination of ragh Castro,

Mr. Bissell, Not inconsistent at all. I think it may
well have embodied a judgment on Mr. Dulles part that this
effort concerning Radf Castro was altogether too risky, and
technically not sufficiently likely of success.

Mr. diGenova. During our initial telephone conversa-

tion on August 6 you speculated, and you clearly identified it;

as mere speculation, that one of the reasonsthat Mr. Dulles,

assuming he did, ordered that initial cable countermanded was,

first, too many innocent persons on the plane would have
been killed, and second, that it was so risky because there
had been just an initial approach of the asset and it wasn't
known whether or not he was a double agent, and thirdly, it
appeared that the contemplation of all three, the assassina-
tion of all three was being considered, and, therefore, since
only Raol would be on this plane that it would have resulted
in the dilemma that they sought to avoid, that is, if

he had been killed there would have been two lefe over, and
there may have been a reason that he ordered the countermand.

Would you take by that as a form of speculation at this

TOP SECRET



point as one of the reasons that he would have countermanded
that cable?

Mr. Bissell. i would.

Mr. Schwarz. Could I follow up on the Congo, Exhibit
2, the Dulles cable to Leopoldville.

Now, we apparently read to you when I was out of the
room the first paragraph at least, which talks about the clear!
cut conclusion:

"If he continues to hold high office the inevitable

result would be chaos and at worst pave the way for Communist

takeover. Consequently, we conclude that his removal must
be an urgent and prime objective, and under existing condition:
this must be a high priority of your covert action".

And you have read that language as meaning killing, right?

3
8
5

Mr. Bissell. Yes,
Mr. Schwarz. I want to ask you if you continue to

read it as killing in the light of the third paragraph of

the cable which reads as follows:

"To the extent that Ambassador may desire to be con-
sulted you should seek his concurrence. If in any particular ;
case he does not wish to be consulted you can act on your
own authority where time does not permit reference here.

“Paragraph 4, this message has been seen and approved
at competent level of the Department of State”.

Bo you still believe in the light of the authorization

x0 Fast Steeet, $ E., Wa

TOP SECRET



810 First Siveet, $6. Wasmastan, O.€. 2400e

‘ ct hoe
SECRET?
to alecuss the matter with the Ambassador that assaséination

was involved?

Mr. Bissell, Yes, especially since there is evidence

here that it was discussed with and: approved at State, and
in the light of the background in this special Group.

Mr. Schwarz. You don't think this is referring to
a coup?

Mr, Bissell, I don't think so. But I can't be

Perfectly certain, But I think it refers to more than that.

T think actually it is saying, his removal by some means or
other is the very high priority objective, 1 would infer

from this that what we know was discussed at least in the
Special Group, and that is that removal might be by the means
of assassination, although obviously others would he preferred.

Could I add one word in answer to that question. 1 am
almost certain I am correct, that the then Ambassador to
the Congo was Edward Gullion.

Mr. Baron, I believe it was Timberlake.

Mx. Bissell. I think Gullion had arrived by this
time. But certainly in Guilion's regime there was extremely
close collaboration between the Ambassador and the Chief of
Station. And the Ambassador was an individual whe would have
been quite prepared to contemplate this kind of action.

Mr. Wides, Mr. Bissell, just to make sure the record

is complete in terms of your efforts to analyze that, if 1°

TOP SECRET



3
Q
5

cert, SE. Wasnington, B.C. PODS

represented to you that at the time thamwas traffic between
the station and headquarters in the normal African Division
channels regarding U.S. efforts to influence President
Kasavubu and others to dismiss Lumumba from political power as
premier, and also traffic relating to a takeover of the real
power by certain military figures such as Mr. Mobutu, would
your reading of that cable still be that it suggests authori-
zation of assassination as opposed to possibly discussing
only authorization of removal of him from political power?

Mry Bissell. I think it authorizes removal. And I
think that probably Mr, Dulles would have said, if you
can possibly really remove him through political power, that
is obviously the preferred course of action,

But I think this authorizes the whole tone of it very
strong measures indeed.

I say in support of that, there had been a record
established that even after Lumumba had been removed from
political power and had taken refuge in the U.N. he was
still widely regarded as a menace.

Mr. Dawson. I would like to follow very briefly on
this. I would like to ask you about this agent that you did
have a firm recollection of being President of the Congo. He
was described as being a well-placed or a very good agent
was he not?

Mr. Bissell. I think he was a very good agent, and

TOP SECRET



pmone (Ares 702} 544-6000

4
z
‘
2
H
3

Sof. Wasangton, B46. 71062

also he made an effective penetration of Lumumba's supporters
both in the Congo, and as it were, in the line of funding
and supply in Europe.

Mr. Dawson. §0, he was in place, so to speak?

Mr. Bissell. Yes.

In other words, he was a dual agent.

Mr. Dawson, Did he have access directly to Lumumba?

Mr. Bissell. i think he did, yes.

Mr. Dawson. Do you remember having been told that he
sometime in November or December went to Stanleyville?

Mr. Bissell. I don't remember the specific case, but
it fits the pattern very well, What I do remember is one
eperation. But he knew.of,he was close enough to ~- he
was used as a courier from Lumumba, I think, first in the
capitol, and then later from Stanleyville to Europe... And
on one occasion, because he had penetrated so effectively, he
was aware that a large amount of cash was being taken by two
other couriers down to the Congo, and as a result of his
awareness of that, and ail the details of that trip, that
shipment was intercepted.

ur. Dawson. The Chief of Station testified about
having an agent that had access.

Would this have been the agent that he believed he
would have access to?

“mr. Bissell. I believe he would have, yes.

TOP SECRET



eee
TOP SECRET
Mr, Dawson. Thank you.
Mr. Wides. Mr, Bissell, touching briefly on Ifidénes!

-when you testified to the Rockefeller Commission, and this:

was reviewed very summarily when he testified before us, that

Prone {Arex 202) 544-6000

you recalled some possibility -- some planning of a possibilit:
of assassinating stkarhe§progrensing as far as the identificad
tion of an asset who might be recruited for this purpose, Hl
but the plan was never reached and never perfected to a
point where it was decided to go ahead.

Do you recall anything, or do you have any information

that would be relevant to our information that a Moslem asset

from the Middle Hast was recruited who was considered for

an operation infindsnesia} against Gearing] witn the crypt
ye

[oPstson, anafan operation that in regard at least to the

2
3
8
:

assassination ‘aspects had been started by Kim Roosevelt be-
cause of his ties with the Mid-East?

Does that ring a bell at all?

Mr. Bissell. No, sir. That one I don’t remember at
all. I remember enough of the plan that i referred to
know that what you speak of was a different activity.

Mr. Wides.” And the one you referred to involved

indigenous Endonesians

Snr. Bissell. | I think it involved -- I don't know

: A
what nationality the asset,: but I think it involved a

member of an air crew on a commercial airline, ~~ not ona

TOP SECRET



prone Ares 202) 544-6000

commercial, I will take that back, on a flight that might
¢ .

be chartered, for Sukarno.
ae a

Mr. Wides. Either when you became DDP or before,
whether or not you were personally involved, did you ever hear
anything regarding any efforts by the CIA to assassinate Nasser
and to send teams, assassination tems into Egypt for that
purpose?

Mr. Bissell. No, I never did. I could almost go so far]
as to say that that was one that was never even thought of.

Mr. Schwarz. We forgot to ask you a question which we
ask almost all the other high people who come down here to

testify.

Looking back on things, now, -- and I hate to use the

-

word get rid of, but let me --do.you think the U.S. should get
|

rid of assassination as a tool? 1

i

Mr, Bissell. I think in today's atmosphere the answer

is yes.

i
i

Mr. Wides. why do you think that?

Mr. Bissell. I think that to use means for the
advancement of policy of such a sort that in the pre-
vailing climate these days would be almost certainly dis-
approved of by a large majority of the legislative arm, and
the public at large, and everybody else, is unwise unless
you can have absolute confidence of total security. And by

security I mean that outside of the two or three people who

TOP SECRET



y
}

o
fa
©
oo
fa
<
~

30903

SO, Warningiom, DAE.

undertake the effort, nobody else will ever know about it.
Now, that circumstance doesn't obtain today, it never
has, but it certainly doesn't today. And I think the climate
is as I have described, and I, therefore, would eliminate. this
method.
Mr. diGenova, T just’ have one question. I apologize for
jumping around, but part of this is to get you out of here. |
When the phrase"receiving serious consideration" in i

headquarters was used in that cable that we alluded to in

regard to the attempt to kill Raol Castro, what does that mean
to you when Tracy Barnes authorized that sort of language
to be used in a cable?

Mr, Bissell, It means that he had fought and talked
about this, and almost certainly that I have, And it
may refer to considerations with Allen Dulles. I can't
tell how wide ranging they would be. Théy would probably
have involved J.C. King, the head of that division.

Mr. Schwarz, Did Barnes work for you?

Mr. Bissell. Yes, he did.

Mr. Schwarz. He is now dead,

Mr. Bissell. Yes.

Mr. diGenova. But that was not light language when
it was sent to a station?

Mr. Bissell. No.

Tt was sent to encourage careful planning.

TOP SECRET



Mr. Schwarz. Thank. you very much.
(Whereupon, at 4:25 p.m, the hearing was concluded.)

TOP SECRET

