# 157-10004-10280

## Page 1

157-10004-10280

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 157-10004-10280

RECORDS SERIES :

CABLE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO : DIRECTOR, CIA

TITLE :

ROBERT MAHEU'S TRANSPORTATION OF PROSTITUTES

DATE : 10/10/57

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

MAHEU, ROBERT

ROBERT A. MAHE AND ASSOCIATES (RAMA)

PROSTITUTES

FOREIGN LEADERS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION • U

RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, DONOR REST.,

REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/01/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NY 50955

DocId:32202169

Page 1

Date: 09/02/94

Page :1

my s are me ma de di

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Clean Copy of IN 20362

DIRECTOR

10 Retaker 1957

IN 20362

CITE

RE:

1. CIA source called COS urgently 9 Oct and turned over two

documents charging that Robert M. Maheu violated Mann Act in

procuring and transporting prostitutes for a

foreign leader during

state visit U. S. 1956, that this done with tacit approval State.

Also charge Maheu with wire tapping OPS against Onassis Shipping

Co in 55, that this done with tacit approval U. S. Government and

known to CIA, State and FBI.

2.g

Dexpressed low interest info but agreed pouch to

CIA.

3. On 8 Oct

gave identical documents to DCM who

pouched same 9 Oct to State for action AMB Farland. Told DCM a

high foreign official desires wide distribution U. S. Government

agencies.

4. CIA source believes only possible source above documents

1s John Joseph Frank who formerly close to Maheu.

5. FC:

k111 Frank Trial.

Vobjective possibly blackmail U. S. Government,

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO KAPOK CABLES.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM

(i) (A).

AS SANITIZED

(1B)

27-7-94

01450

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

12/23/98

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE OFEIGF

SECRE:

NW 50955 DooId: 32202169 Page 2

---

