157-10005-10214)

Date:10/01/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
a : IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10005-10214

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : WHITE HOUSE
FROM :
TO:

TITLE :
PARTIAL TRANSCRIPT

DATE : 00/00/00
PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :
SELECTED PAGES OF TRANSCRIPT REGARDING CUBAN OPERATIONS
Q&A SESSION WITH PERSONS NOT NOTED
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : $
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/01/93

OPENING CRITERIA : ye

COMMENTS :
BOX 436-1

[R].- ITEM IS RESTRICTED :.
ay 2

HW 50955 DocId:32202404 Page 1


osGine ; 10

| heard?

: 2
ae A A fellow named (Né

Q And Mr. Fitzgerald?

A Yes, and I really can't recall some of the other
7 people. We were -- we had just noveal at that time,
7 in Paris, Be
u and we felt that it was probably bugged, so all conversations
8 took place -~- we walked around the garden and tyat type of
thing, and, you know, I was walking with somebody, somebody
a was in front of me, and you just overhear conversations.
a ah This was in Paris?
12 : EY Seat

A Yes. THE WHITE HOUSE OFFIGE

T Q  Isee.

5 A No. was in the Special Activities Staff.

was he a member of the military?

16 He was stationed in Washington. And he was in contact with

Cuban military-type. . : .
18 Q Was it your “understanding that the Agency had receive
19 instructions with respect to this activity ‘Erom ‘another

20 component of the Government? 04970

21 A Well, let me put it this way. I don't know whether
22 they received instructions. I Tae to assume, and I am pretty
- positive, that this was a result of a Special Group decision.

@- And at this time you’ have to remember that Bobby Kennedy was

oo overse2ing this deal, presumably for his brother, and he was

REAM ey

HW 50955 DocId:32202404 Page 2
