# 157-10011-10121

## Page 1

157-10011-10121

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 157-10011-10121

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

-ROM : DEMPSEY, JOHN P., CHIEF, RESEARCI

TO : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF SECURITY

TITLE :

WILEY, CHARLES WILLIAM

DATE : 04/01/74

PAGES : 116

SUBJECTS :

•SUMMARY REPORT BY VASALY, LOUIS W. RE WILEY, CHARLES W.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : S

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENIS :

SSCI Box 221, Folder 10

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

50955

DocId: 32203889

Page 1

-

Date: 10/07/93

Page: 1

[R]

---

## Page 2

SECRE! .:

:

Record Number 157-10011-10121

1 April 1974

MENORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Security

SUBJECT

Attached herewith for your information is a

summary report covering Subject prepared by

Tand the undersigned.

It is

limited to and based upon existing documents in the

Office of Security files on

overt file #345 589, covert file #127 958 and thirteen

vuimes vi Security Resenrch

Staff operational files.

Tie innuit's

accurasy one

authenticily are necessarily

based upon file documents, since ine wisters did little

or no interpretation of those documents and quoted

docunenis in toto wherever possible.

Chi

ide, Research Branch

I ROM

SEP P? 1975

CIA

SECRET

-062258

HW 50955

DocId: 32203889

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECREH

CONTENTS

BACKGROUND

EVENTS LEADING TO RECRUITMENT

SECURITY PROCESSING

ACTIVITIES, MARCH 1956 - JUNE 1959

CONTRACTUAL RELATIONSHIP

ACTIVITIES, JULY 1959 - JANUARY 1974

WORLD YOUTH FESTIVAL, VIENNA 1959

CUBA TRIP, ARREST AND DETENTION 1960

AFRICA AND EAST EUROPEAN

TRIP 1961

OTHER ACTIVITY 1959-1964

CLANDESTINE TRAINING 1961

WORLD YOUTH FESTIVEL, HELSINKI 1962

TAIWAN AND FAR EAST TRIP 1964

WORLD YOUTH FESTIVAL, ALGIERS 1965

SOUTH AMER. TRIP, SUMMER 1965

OTHER ACTIVITY 1965 - 1974

VIETNAM TRIP 1967-196S

EUROPEAN TRIP 1970

WORTO YOUTH FESTIVAL. EAST BERLIN 1973

INVOLVEMDIT TI CUBAN EXTUG

ACTIVITIES

OVERSEAS TRAVEL

UTILIZATION, CONTROL AND CASE OFFICERS

COVER

PERSONAL ACTIVITY

TERMINATION

CONTACTS AND RELATIONSHIP WITH

JAMES MCCORD, LEE PENNINGION,

DONALD SWEANY: and HOWARD HUNT

RECEIVE FROM

SEP 5? 1975

CIA

SECRET:

HW 50955 DocId: 32203889

Page 3

1

2

8

9

106

109

E2 IMPDET

CL

BY 06225S

---

## Page 4

SECRETI

BACKGROUND

The son of a professional actor,

was, himself,

a child actor on stage and radio from 1931-1941.

In 1942

and 1943 he toured with U.S.0. shows

and from 1943 througer

1944, was an assistant stage manager in New York City.

to 1942, he attended

the New York City Professional

Children's School. He enlisted in the U. S. Navy and served

honorably as a Seaman from November 1944

to July 1945.

From

1015 19 1957, he

held many part-time and temporary fees in

New york chey aniMals. Postal chen enemie

viewer, bellhop and U.

From 1949 through

1954 he attended night

school at New York University and

earned a B. S. degree in Journalism.

1955, he was an underwriter for Guardian life Insurance

from 1951 to

Company and from November 1953 to. October 1954, an agent

for Fidelity Life Insurance Company, both in New York City.

ROM

SEP 30 1975

CIA

E?

IMPDET

CL

BY 062256

FORET

HH 50955

DocId: 32203889

Page 4

---

## Page 5

EVENTS LEADING TO RECRUITMENT

first came to the official atten-

tion of the Office of Security (OS) on 9 September dyss,

when

letter written by

(Executive Officer. OS) forwarded a

Security

•Division, OS),

_(Chief, Personnel

who in turn directed the letter

to James W. McCord [Security Research Staff of the Office

of Security (SRS)] :

obtained the

letter

is unknown, inasmuch as the name of the addressee was

deleted in

in the Executive

the letter. However, the letter was recorded

Registry under number 5-98S1. The

setter is dated 27 April 1955, gives

address and

telephone number, and

advised that he was working

on an index of the Daily Worker for the years 1933-1943

thought that

perhaps you might be interested in

specific information that I am likely to find."

On 10 September 1955, James W. McCord contacted

in Flushing, New

nature or The

At that time, L

explained the

Med ke the Dair Porker cor the jeere doze.

1945, by stating that he was preparing the index under a

grant from the American Legion Americanism Committee,

headed " Lee Pennington

started the index in November 1954.

(a former employee of the FBI).

stated

he contacted the major government agencies in Washington

to ascertain what information in the Daily Worker would

be of most interest to them, and in addition, contacted

a couple of Congressional Committees which McCord surmised

vere the House coittee on un-American Activities and the

Senate Internal Security Committee.

estimated it

would take two and a half years to complete the index.

that time,

receiving part-time clerical assis-

tance from the Women's Auxiliary of the American

Post in Flushing, New York.

Legion

also indicated an in-

terest in Agency employment after finishing the index.

The results of McCord's interview with

were

brought to the attention of Robert Bannerman,

Deputy Direc-

tor of security, by 21 November 1955, when Bannerman opined

that

"this may be valuable."

RECEIVED FROM

SEP 30 1975

CIA

- 2 -

HW 50955 DooId: 32203889

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRETI

McCord met next with

in Washington, D. C., for

two days, ending on 1 December 1955. By that time,

had indexed 150,000 names

of the

January 1934 through June 1936.

Daily Worker covering

stated that the

FBI in

New York City and the American Legion were already

making

"extensive use" of the index cards.

stated

that one of his purposes being

in Washington was to secure

financing for the index continuation. He stated that his

$5000 a year grant from the American Legion Americanism

Connittee would expire at the end of December 195 he lould

if negotiations with that body were unsuccessiul,

attempt to secure financing from the Senate and House Invas-

tigating Conmittees. L

stated that the FBI has indi-

cated the strongest desire that he continue the indexing

but that in his discussion with

Nr. DeLoach (Cartha Deloach,

an FBI senior official), no indication of forthcoming finan-

cial support from the Bureau for this work was indicated.

In recording this contact with

McCord opined:

"I think it is obvious that the index

is working on would be of con-

siderabie value in tho Security Ottore and

to CIA, particularly

since the Communist

Party membership and

activities during

the

1934-40 period were for the most part very

open and extensively advertised in the Daily

Worker.

An example of how open their activi-

ties

were is indicated in the fact that

Elizabeth Bentley's name was mentioned

a 1935 issue of the Daily Worker at a time

prior

to her going underground and acquiring

a RIS (Russian Intelligence Service) mission.

If the bally worker thus bears a record of

(Communist) Party activities of an indi-

vidual such as Bentley, who later became

so prominent in RIS activities in the

United States, then the possibility always

exists that the names of nersons later con-

nected with OSS (Office of Strategic Services)

and other

governmental

activity may also be

mentioned in the 1934-40 Daily Worker issues,

which have heretofore never been indexed by

any government agency.

SEP :: 1975

CIA

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32203889

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SEGRETI

"Because of the obvious value of

having access to such an

index, the writer

(McCord) recommends that

we encourage the

continuation ofL

index project in

any way in which we are able to further

such work."

(There is no objective evidence in the file other than

the above to support L

contention that he was given

encouragement by Mr. DeLoach of the FBI to continue the pro-

ject.)

The above was brought to the attention of

(Chief,

Counterintelligence Branch, sks),

in

turn brought

the matter to the attention of Colonel

Sheffield Edwards, Director of Security, circa early

December 1955.

Via a memorandum dated 19 December 1955, McCord

informed

of the receipt of additional

correspon

dence from

and McCord includud a rehash

of the

metter including

statements:

"I hope the Office of Security

can

encourage the continuation of the

project, at least until

the index is

completed up through 1940, which would

take about another year of work byl

The index has considerable potential CE

(counter espionage) value to this Office,

for one

thing, by virtue of the fact that

there will be numerous heretofore unidenti-

fied Communists' names turn up in the

index, some of whom went underground

during the World War II years.

The

index may give us the one clue neces-

sary to detect any

such penetration

existing within this Agency.

The value

in protecting the Agency thereby is of

course inestimable.

The continuation

of the project would have other merits,

which we have discussed previously."

REvErthe Magey consider copterded

NcCord also recommended that,

should the project fail,

SEP " 1975

CIA

- 4 -

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32203889

Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECREI

McCord recommended that l

_had a personal acquain-

tance with a number of the well-known ex-Communist Party

Key functionaries, such as louisads nia as well as a

personal

acquaintance with the

research people

in all ni the federal Congressional Committees, and State

Investigating Connittees in New York State.

McCord was next in contact with

on 27 December

1955, receiving an account of pertinent points retrieved

from the indexing project. In addition,

stated he had discussed the indexing project with

(an ex-ril penetiation of the CPUSA), who

had a

continuing interest in the project and had indicated ne

would be willing

to helpl

field should the project te terninated.

get a job in the newspaper

also con-

mented that he had had lengthy political discussions with

(one-time Communist) in recent years, and

was in contact with

a few weeks before.:

Speculation on identity of Private Individual

When McCord's 27 December contact with

was

brought to the attention of Bannerman, he directed

one to no the expense to the possible E

in the meantime we can complete our clearance of him and

try to make out a project.

of his work to be certain a project is justified.

in turn, directed icCord to talk to

(CI Staff)

about the matter.

In the interim, on 21 December 1955,

completed

a Personal History Statemant (and a report of medical his-

tory) reflecting he had been employed since November 1954

RECEIVED FROM

SEP PA 1975

CIA

- 5==

SECRETT

-

HW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 8

---

## Page 9

RECE

on a

grant from the American Legion, 1608 K. Street, N.W.,

Washington, D. C., under the supervision of Lee Pennington.

As a result,

McCord scheduled National Agency Checks in

the name of

_ on 9 January 1956.

On 17 January 1956, McCord informed

his OK,

-nat

intended to place an

article in

receiving

the

nonthly newstetter

"Political Research" published by an

emigree organization).

The article was to announce

indexing project and solicit funds.

On 27 January 1956, McCord informed

](Chief, SRS), Bannerman and Colonel Edwaras of the

results of a

meeting he had that day discussine

indexing project with L

(CI

Staff).

In essence, it was agreed that some Agency funding

of the

interest in

project should be forthcoming, and

evidenced

-forL

after completion

of the project.

Both Bannerman and Colonel Edwards evi-

denced interest in Agency funding of the project, the latter

asking for figures as to cost.

McCord was next in direct contact with

in Hushing,

Yew York, on 29 January 1956, obtaining highlights of security

interest

developed from the indexing.

By 6 February 1956, Ilgures were produced showing that

$13,500 would cover one year continuation of the indexing,

$7,000 FOrL

_ $3,000 fox a clerk typist; and $3,000

part-time help and supplies.

On this date,

Gaynor noted he

"would like to see this project completed if at all possible."

By the first week of March 1956, "front office" verbal

approval had been given for os funding of the project, labeled

andlation Recall, concurrent with a meeting between Necord

and arrangements were made for transporting

completed

portion of the index to Washington, D. C.

McCord

estimated

the value of the index at that time

as being be-

tween $15,000 to $25,000 in labor alone.

favorable National Agency Name Checks were concluded on_

During this nie

and Colonel Edwards

and Colonel White had approved using

Security Office funds to total $10,000 in all, to continue

viley's indexing for one additional year. The partially

completed index was turned over to the Agency on 8 March 1956.

- 6 -

SEP BM 1975

CIA

AW 50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Following the approval of the project funding, McCord

contacted Lee Pennington, of the Americanism Cormittee of

the American lesion in Washinoton n c

actina: not

work.

It was made clear to

arrangate tA vase so

that CIA was pur-

chasing the end product of his work and that he was not

now a CIA employee. However, McCord did advise

he would attempt to secure Agency employment for him

conclusion of the project; and that in the coming year

work on the indexing, continue regular contact with

his sources of information in New York City - keeping the

Agency advised of anything that may be pertinent to our

areas of interest, and finally, build a cover story which

would enable

to contact and interview various

Communists and

I ex-Soviet

ex-

agents in the New

York area.

SEP:1975

CIA

- 7-

SO OCT

HH

50955

DocId: 32203889

Page

10

---

## Page 11

SECRET:

SECURITY PROCESSING

On 9 January 1956, James McCord of SRS requested

National Agency Checks

(NACs), excluding Cle, to be made

These checks were

returned on 24 February 1956

and all were either favorable or no record. NACs were

again requested on 30 September 1958 and were returned

either favorabla or no record on

130 October 1958.

31975

CIA

- 8-

SECRET

30955

DOC1d: 32203889

Paue 11

---

## Page 12

ACTIVITIES

March 1956 - June 1959

from his home address,

rersonnel Pool office of personnel, on certain

administrative matters for

the processing and

typing of the

index.

The Personnel Pool work would result in 8 full copies

of the index: three copies to the Security Office, one copy

to Staff D,

one copy to CI Staff, one copy for the EBI, one

copy for the American Legion and

one copy for

(It is presumed that a copy of the index was given to

the FBI; however, there

is no document which could be located

that states a copy was in fact given to the FBI.)

Concurrent with McCord's interest in

he and

|(SRS) were workino an Arantian

nuendant to this operation, by April 1956,

at the request of McCord had completed:

a. A summary of newspaper items on

the Vladimir Asaturov case;

b. A summary of information on the

Robert Osman case;

C. A summary of information on the

Robert

G. Switz case;

d.

A summary of information on the

Mary Martin espionage case; and

e.

A summary of information on the

Michael Gorin

espionage case.

..:i

- 9 -

=3 ÷9 1915

CIA

SECRET

HH 50955

DocId: 32203889

Pave 12

---

## Page 13

ject on 9 Apas 195 his yes ay coo verina he index pro-

there are three areas

which would be of interest and would enhance his value to

CIA.

his sources of information in New York City, keeping CIA

advised of anything that may be pertinent to our

areas of

The third would be the building for him a cover

story which would enable him to contact and interview various

ex-Communists and ex-Soviet agents in the New York area.

told McCord that he,

was in contact with

during the spring of 1950, and

asked

McCord to work on

getting him,

some (American)

also enclosed reports on one

He stated he had begun.

taking Russian.

lanizuage lossons

from o Russian girl working for NTS.

_On 20 March 1957, Mclord inforned his supervisor that

work on the index project would expire in May 1957.

McCord indicated he would like to use

for another year

on the indexing project.

On 15 April 1951:

tendered additional materials

from

the indexing project;

a copy of an article by Alfred

Kohlberg,

"A Red Dream"; an open letter to the President

of the United States requesting either a new trial or par-

don for Morton Sobell, attaching a list of 200 signers; and

a list of publications and organizations fighting Communism

in the U.S. prepared by Herb Philbrick, given to L

was advised that he may be called upon soon to work

on some material on Soviet Espionage (David Dallin material,

a noted

author of books on

Soviet Intelligence), requiring

about one month's work; that he may be called upon to tol-

low the Albam (Jacob Alban) trial developments in the press;

and that an attempt would be made to renew his grant for

another year.

SEP::*975

-10 -

SECRET

NH 50955

D001d:32203889

Page 13

---

## Page 14

PEORETI

On 21 June 1957, L

quested the

Director of Security for authorization to

SRS, re-

con-

tinue

the Daily Worker indexing project for one year which

had yielded approximately 500,000 names in the index.

22 August 1957, Sheffield Ediards, Director of Security,

requested and received, such authorization for circa

$10,000 from the Deputy Director of Support.

During this period (1050-1999)L

worked with

Herbert Philbrick on a book which Philbrick

entitled "The Nost Dangerous Group in the World preparing

He also

From 5 to 19 January 1959,

made a fact-finding

trip through the Mid-West and the Southeastern states of

the U.S. contacting newspapers, "conservative" individuals,

police agencies, and intormation repositories to determine

the extent of their information concerning Communism and

the Communist movement.

During the summer of 1959, SRS initiated and completed

= start through

"Spectator" and the City College of New jork newspaper.

This, unlike the Daily Worker index, was a study of the

various issues for information pertaining to Communists

and radical organizations and individuals.

conducted the study and was paid for his

time.

Financial records indicate that the indexing project's

gross funding from March 1956 through May 1957 was $10,000.

Out of that amount,

was given $8,600 in salary and the

other $1,400 was for expenses:

The same total amount was

approved for the period June 1957 through May 1958 and was

expended as follows: $7,900 for salary payments and $2,100

for expenses.

A like amount ($10,000) was set aside

the period June 1958 through June 1959 and expended at the

rate of $734.17 per month

salary payments and the rest,

$265.93, in expenses.

In connection with the index,

was also given

specific requests to compile reports

on several individ-

uals and organizations which were of peripheral interest.

SEP 4: 1975

CIA

- 11 -

SECREETI

HW 50955 DocId: 32203889

Page 14

---

## Page 15

On 30 April 1958.

prepared a report on his

contact

with the International Com-

mission or Jurists, and the location of possible files

on Soviet Espionage Commissioned by Philip Chancellor to

be gathered by Sidney "claglen.

On 2 May 1958,

prepared a report on his chance

meeting with Vladimir Userov, Tass reporter.

reported that on 28 June 1958, he attended a

birthday cocktail party at the apartment

of and for

Dr. J.B. Matthews, and identified others in attendance.

On 6 December 1956 (sic),

reported receiving

a call from J.B. Matthews inquiring about Jack Rubenstein

(Rubinstein).

In the fall of 1958,

reported meeting l

ization

from England, active in the anti-communist organ-

Common Cause.

On 1 November 1958

preDared a ronart an tha

On 8 December 1958

contact with

arepared a renort on

official. On 3 March 1959,

this

an

report was sent by

Helene Finan to James McCord and Clifton Carrico.

In March 1959,

appearing in 1941 and 1942

prepared four reviews of articles

editions of Social Justice

Magazine pertaining to General Walter G. Krivitsky.

his introduction to

On 19 April 1959, prepared a renort covering

on one topore that L

tion also to the FBI.

Jwas going

to

There is a notation

give the informa-

19:5

- 12-

~ DEGRET.

..i!

HW 50955

DocId: 32203889

Page 15

---

## Page 16

1:a1!

CONTRACTUAL RELATIONSHIP - July 1959

On 1 July 1959, this Agency entered into contract

with

as an independent contractor, at the salary

rate of $9,100 per annum, with additional compensation

In the amount of si of the above sum, to be paid in

quarterly installments, representing

the Government's

contribution toward Wiley's choice of programs for insur-

medical and health. The contract spec1-

that he would be reimbursed for operational trave

as directed by OS, and for other approved operational

expenses, subject

to accounting applicable with Govern-

ment regulations.

The annual compensation was subsequently increased

on 1 July 1960 to $9,900 per annum and on 1 July 1961 to

$10,500 per annum, plus additional 55 as noted above.

Salary has remained at the latter level to the date of

The contract was to run for an inde-

finita

period, and could be terminated without notice in

the even ué a breach di contract or by wiley vengeriny

himself

unavailable for acceptable service, and could

otherwise be terminated by either

or the Agency

with 90 days' notice.

From 1955 to 1959;

was paid in cash, and for

several years after the

contract was signed, officers of

SRS continued to pay

his salary either in cash or

through bank money orders.

In 1904 payments of salary

were made by the Office of Finance directly into his bank

account in New York City.

two occasions,

nanagement of

Finance Officers.

self-established film' 1961, because of his

_, by Agency

failure to

comply with the

SRS's instructions to furnish complete

details

on his claimed expenses,

the regular payment of

"operational" expenses was terminated, necessitating

that

he reduce expenses which were not reimburseable from

• the

firm's income.

- 13-

SEP A 1975

CIA

SECRET T

WN 30933 Doold: 32203389 Page 16

---

## Page 17

Regarding his overseas

travel, for the carly years,

he was reimbursed in toto for travel expenses.

However,

once World News

Analysis had become

established and had

acquired

some regular source of income, the reimburse-

ments for his overseas travel was decreased, and only a

token contribution was made toward lengthy trips.

-14 -

1975

CIA

SEGRET

NH 50955

Doc1d:32203889

Page 17

---

## Page 18

SEGREN

:

ACTIVITIES, July 1959 - January 1974

WORLD YOUTH FESTIVAL, VIENNA 1959

shortly after

signed his contract with this

Agency, he became involved in the World Youth Festival

(WYF) held in Vienna during July 1959.

A memo dated 19 February 1959 to the Acting Chief,

SRS. from

_ (SAS) reports on a meeting between

at which

furnished information rela

tive to the torthcoming IF to be held in Europe in mid-

summer 1959.

According to this mamn and an accompanying

said that

HUA employee), with the aldom

Sex-Communist and

importer and long-time anti-Communist activitist)

and

Colonel Archibald Roosevelt, has a project extant to send

a delegation of 10 or more people to the WYF in Vienna in

July, alony with the left-wing

n0rdo, has asked

who is running

merican delesation

in the "she" or te

iili,

_the project was

his and

should not be given any prominence

and his

vife will sign up next week.

1(sic)

0f

reported on 12 March 1959 to the AC/SRS

that

will

for us (SRS) .

attend the are in Vienna in sumner of 1959

A 17 March 1959 memo states

New York with the delegation on 20 June 1959. After the

will leave

Festival, the group (less

plans to spend three

weeks

to the

Festival. |

later changed his plans to include a visit

land after the Vienna and USSR phases of the trip.

-ROM

SEP. ^: 1975

CLA

- 15-

NH 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 18

---

## Page 19

On 18 May 1959.

Iwrote a memo to the

Chief, SRS that

_Is now

accredited under the auspices of the North

American Newspaper Alliance, the spades syndicate,

Indianapolis Star,

The Richmond Times Dispatch and pro-

bably several other publications.

_is a member of

an anti-Communist group privately sponsored who will attend

the Vienna Youth Festival and will make themselves known

luring the restival.

will probably cover the Festi-

val for the Newhouse Newspaper Chain, National Review ano

U.S. News and World Report.

He has received $500 in pri-

subscriptions

-to cover the cost of his transportation

to the WYF.

The cost of his proposed itinerary amounts to

$1,050.70 for transportation.

recommended the Office

of Security pay the additional

cost of $556.70 with the

understanding that any remuneration received from his

writings be offset on an equitable basis.

Un 19 May 1959, James McCord noted to

"Ok, see

me," referring to the request to approve the additional

cost and possible later offset. There is a 16 June rèport

Trum

The New York Times reported on 5 August 1959 that

his wife, and

a British sub-

ject living in New York City,

were "roughed up" when they

attempted to join a parade of Eastern Bloc delegates to

the WYF. L

_and company waited until the parade had

started and then unfolded their banners

with such slogans

as "Remember Hungary," "Remember Tibet," and "What About

Soviet Imperialism?"

That incident got much press cover-

age, particularly because

wife was obviously preg-

nant.

A 14 September 1959 memo for the record from

reflects that in a meeting with staff members af the hell

SEP -* 1975

CIA

- 16 -

SECRET

NH 50955

DooId: 32203889

Page 19

---

## Page 20

:

In February 1960,

did testify before. HUA as

in expert regarding the 7th

WYF and covered "violence"

against himself and other anti-Communists and the Commu-

nist dominance of delegations.

• On or about 1 April 1960, the House Committee on

Un-American Activities

was interested in consultation

based on articles by

appearing in the

And the sea carter ready a vation Revie,

observations of Iron Curtain countries derived from his

travels to the USSR,

the World Youth Festival in Vienna,

and other Iron Curtain countries during the summer of

1959. (In February 1960, L

had testified before

HUA about his experiences at the Vienna Youth Festival.)

The HUA staff members interested in

were Francis

McNamara and Richard Arens.

During the course of his trip to the WYF,

apparently drew some official attention to himself in

Israel.

circa 20 duguet 1959, = State Depertment memorandum

was forwarded to McCord rezardino conversations

Israel,

Jat the american Embassy on 20 and 21 July

In substance, L

stated

represented

himself as a columnist connected with the "Newhouse Chain"

but in his questioning of

about Israeli nolitics

upon receipt of this memo, McCord advised

SRS, "We need to straighten

Circa September 1959,

prepared five reports

relevant to some of his travels to the Middle East, Soviet

Union and Austria

attendant to activities of the World

Youth Festival in Vienna in the summer of 1959. One renort

concerned

and

Another concerned

observations as of 9 August 1959 when he was

A

third report

RECENED FROM

SEP -* 1075

C !!

- 17-

SECRET

HW 50955 DocId: 32203889

Page 20

---

## Page 21

• concerned the presence of

at the Vienna

Youth Festival from late July to carly Aupust 1959

fourth report concerned

" On 2 July 1ySy whol

Icharacterized

and the titth report pertained

In the fall of 1959

prepared three additional

reports attendant to his

travels involving the World Youth

Festival in the summer of 1959.

One report concerned the

presence of

at the Youth Festival: another

concerned

a train travelling between the soviet border at Brest and

Warsaw on 16 August 1959Y coupled With a remort not

characterized as a

It tale July 1ysy, who L

characterized as "Polish journa-

lists (intelligence agent?)"; and a third concerned a 29 June

1959 meeting in Belgrade with

characterized

as

n-

SEP ::

1975

CIA

-18 -

NN 50955

DooId: 32203889

Page 21

---

## Page 22

CUBA TRIP, ARREST AND DETENTIOV, 1960

(There is no conclusive evidence such as formal memo-

action to send I

anda in the file to narcate that this Agency initiated

1. However, interences trom

routing slips, memoranda and expense voucher payments would

indicate that

this trip

was for CIA.

Contrary to inferences

by SRS

; officers, there is no indication, again such as a

formal memorandum, in the

files that he, under CIA

instruction, courted arrest and detention so that he could

find out information about the three staff

employees tho

were imprisoned

there. This does not preclude that there

might not be written notes of such a plan huried in other

files. The best indicator is

comment on a

routing slip to CIA Cover Employee dated 2 February 1970,

"His

(Wiley's) imprisonment

in Cuba was an operation on

behalf of FE-TSD-OS-DCI-DDP.")

On 9 August 1960,

reported the following infor-

mation to

of ERs concerning his trip to Cuba:

Mr

arrived in Havana the morning of 26 Inly

10t end was arrested in havana at the Libre Moscl eti

approximately 7:00 p.n. on the evening of 27 July 1960.

During the period between his arrival and his arrest, Mr.

stated that he had made no business type contacts

and that he had merely wandered about the streets of Havana

looking for news items

plus other news-

stepponen type coverage. During this period,:

stated he contacted

of the New York

Times

and he met and

talked with

a stringer

For NBC who was staying at the Libre Hotel.

In addition,

stated that he had spent a certain amount of time

doing nothing but moving about the Libre Hotel.

stated further that during the

26th and on the 27th he

had been interviewing delegates to the Latin American

Havana, Cuba. During

these interviews,

had acted as a

typical newspaper.

man and had with him a tape recorder which he had brought

with hin when he came into Cuba and which he had previously

registered with the Cuban customs authorities.

i- AVED FROM

SEP ÷7 1975

CIA

- 19 -

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 22

---

## Page 23

stated that the actual arrest

came about in the

following way.

He stated

that he had talked with a young

from the United States.

the voung cuban whoiwas obvi

ously violently pro-Castro

and also had talked with a young

man from the United States.

The young Cuban had been telling

that everything was fine in Cuba and

that it was not

a police state and he was conducting his discussion with

this young Cuban in more or less routine reported

style

when all of a sudden a police officer with to others moved

to the table where he was sitting and stated that they wanted

outside.

asked the

ranking officer

who he was and was told

that he was the Chief of the Public

Relations of the louth congress. However, after some argu-

was forcibly taken outside although not roughed

up by the two assistants to the ranking police officer and

also taken at the same time was the young cuban whom

had been interviewing. All these police officers were in

stated that they were placed in a car and taken

directly to G-2 Headquarters in the Miromar Section of

Havana which is a building between 14th Street and Fifth

and boars the number 12tt lohls address known to

the United States Embassy).

_stated that during the

ride in the car to the G-2 Headquarters, he needled the

young Cuban who kept insisting that this was not an arrest

seemed shocked by the whole performance.

that this Cuban, as far as he knows, was dismissed from

the prison after

statement had been taken from him by

the

police the same evening.

stated that he was taken to a reception type of

room

In

the G-2 Headquarters and to his complete amaze-

ment some fifteen minutes after he was taken there, into

the reception room camel

a well known New York

one of those who was on

after he had gone to the Vienna Youth Festival pre-

vIously.

_stated that he could not recall

the name

of the second Communist but stated he could be

identified

since

has a photograph of him at his residence.

and this other Communist were dirty and their feet

KE. 3009 FROM

SEP. In 1975

CkA

- 20 -

SECRET:T

RH 50955 DocId: 32203889

Page 23

---

## Page 24

covered with mud and he learned later from one of the

guards in the reception room that both of these men had

come from Sierra Maestre where they had been visiting.

said he talked to

and there could be no

tiest hese identity. NOTE: In discussing the iden-

tity of these individuals with

it was agreed that a

possible examination of both cases would be in order since

a possibility exists that

and the other Communist

were illegally in Cuba.)

Following this short period a time in the reception

stated that in this catt ha a

feet

described

as

stated that after about one hour in

the cell,

the guards

gation.

came and took him to another room fui interro-

he saw

On the way to the interrogation room,

stated:

and the other aforementioned man in

Inner offices and both seemed

in high spirits.

commented that he had learned later from other pri-

sonsers that|

Jand this other individual had complete

run

of the Headquarters and were allowed to make phone calls

and

that

-

stated that he established through other prisoners

had made at least three phone calls; one to the

National Hotel, one possibly to the United States Embassy

and one to an unknown private number.

also learned

that at one of the three numbers

spoke

to someone

for about

an hour and apparently this someone was known

as "Mike."

_stated that he also learned that the two

Communists were seen with

and were

observed on most friendly terms with

and were, in

fact, reported as being arm in arm with

One pri-

soner believed that they were talking aboutl

since

this prisoner overheard the

the way

Cubans referred to

first name

According to

the interrogation was conducted

by the previously

mentioned

and a Cuban woman who

claimed that she had been

arrested by the FBI recently in

ROM

SEP ^N. 1975

CIA

- 21-

SECRET

AW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 24

---

## Page 25

• Miami, Florida, and further claimed that she had been

slapped by an FBI agent.

stated that this woman

mentioned

the agent's name.

the name of the man but he cannot as yet recall

also believed that the

arrest had

occurred in Miami within the last few months, also no speci-

fic date of arrest was mentioned.

stated that

the woman

both spoke English although not well.

stated that the interrogation was strictly rou-

tine.

They wanted to know why he was in Cuba, when he had

arrived, had he ever been in Cuba hefore. who

he warked

for, etce

stated thatl

attempted to talk

tough at times but

laughed at him and denounced the

Cuban police, the Cuban military and the Cuban government

to

Jand, in fact, invited

he wanted to.

I stated he bluntly asked

to do anything

Jjust

why he was arrested and according to

said "we

think you are an FBI Spy."

stated that he pointed

out the stupidity of

to his face and that

from time to time became furious during the interrogation.

stated that the interrogation which was com-

pletely fruitless lasted about twenty minutes, at the

conclusion of which he was given a sandwich and was told

that he would be released in the morning. I

stated

that he demanded that he be allowed to call

the U.S. Em-

bassy but this was denied. Because of this,

stated

that he wouldn't eat a thing until the U.S. Embassy

or

one of their representatives had made contact with him.

He stated that he took the sandwich and gave it to some

prisoners. n

Istated at the conclusion of this interro-

gation he was taken to a different cell which he described

described as MRR types.

He stated he spent

seven days in this cell

fact went on a hunger strike.

He stated he refused to eat

anything and touched no food

except on the Sunday following

his arrest after he had

promised his release the fol-

lowing morning at which time

ne had a little soup and

some

other food. He added however because his release was not

forthcoming as agreed, he went on another

hunger strike and

had no food until he was released

on the following Wednes-

day, 3 ALUM.

-22-

SEP. 31 1975

CIA

SECRET

HW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 25

---

## Page 26

stated that there was no other attempt at

interrogation made either directly or indirectly during

his stay.. He stated that on Saturday nioht an official

from the

U.S. Embassy visited him.

did not know

this man's name and

Wedne stay iously mentioned visited him honday,

_from the Embassy who has

Tuesday and

commented that prior to his

release he

gave what he regarded

as significant information (which

will be referred

to in the second section of this report)

to

since he thought the information should be

surfaced and he could not tell how long he would be kept

in the prison. I

cautioned the writer at this time

nation can needs connections is this infor-

stated that he suffered

no particular harass-

ments while in the prison.

He stated that some of the

guards talked tough and tried to act tough but

stated

he behaved in his completely stubborn and obstreperous man-

ner at all times and refused to cooperate in every possible

way.

He stated that the regular prison guards were friendly

and

he had no trouble with them but the special military

guards and the army ryne were tne constanc subieuis of his

scorn and hostility.

He stated that as a form

of annoy-

ance he was told twice that he was going to leave and then

after he had prepared to leave, he was told that it was a

mistake and that his leaving had been cancelled.

stated that on Friday or Saturday in the morning

which had been the 29th or 30th of July he was checked over

by a doctor at the prison for fungus infection and because

of the fact that he was on a hunger strike and that it was

cho van

obvious that he was weak from hunger, L

said nothing

came of this but on Tuesday the 2nd of August, he was taken

within the prison to a doctor who immediately sent him to

a hospital, address unknown (in Havana), Camp Libertad.

At this hospital

was given a check up and he was

told

stated that he would resist

any effort to force feed him and he refused to take any

food and any medication from

a Cuban doctor or Cuban atten-

I said that at the hespital he was placed in a

psycho cell with about twelve persons some of whom I

thought were

political types but most of whom were criminally

- 23-

SEP. =7. 1975

CIA

95099T

MN 50955 Doc1d: 32203089 Page 26

---

## Page 27

SECRETI

insane.

lants and ofticals were very worried about

commented that obviously the prison atten-

health

because of his refusal to eat and he was constantly being

checked by various doctors.

stated that he

was re-

leased from the hospital and was given back all of his

effects except his tape

recorder and his hat.

On Wednes-

day, 3 August, he was released.

commented that the individuals who were political

risoners 1mbressed him very much: they seeme

nd were fanatically anti-castro; nost as far as a metoulo

tell were connected with the MRR.

He stated the regular

guards were obnoxious and were detested by the prisoners.

He commented that the G-? Headquarters, as far as he could

tell, had been in operation somewhat over two months and

that they had probably processed over 5,000 prisoners

nan is could

since he

recalled seeing the number attached to his card

as 5028.

commented that while at the hospital a civil

officer,

came to his cell and acted as

interpreter.

told Wiley that he wanted to help him

and offared to do anuthing for him that he could

Arcord-

ing io

appeared io ve a sirong anti-Casio

type who had a great desire to come to the United States.

that he had a good friend who was an

important defector from the Cuban Embassy in Mexico.

commented that C

sounded very honest but that

he could not tell whether this man was a plant or not.

stated that while he was in prison, guards

brought in a man by the name of

Argentine doctor.

stated that he found out that this

had been picked up at the airport as soon as he had

landed and that when he was placed in the cell with

fectly furious

individual.

kept insisting

was an obnoxious type, according tol

stated time and time again emphatically that he hated all

Whet Americans and in

no circumstances would he treat

them medically.

could not understand why this man

was brought into the prison but reported it simply as an

incident of interest.

AFUL/FROM

SEP 30 1975

CIA

-24-

AW 50955 DocId:32203089 Page 27

---

## Page 28

Set out below are items of particular interest which

have been reported in more specific terms by Mr.

to assist

Chief, SRS and are set forth below for record:

reported that MRR source who was interrogated

said that a man

was a Russian or East German

who sits in on all interrogations of political prisoners

at the G-2 Headquarters Bullding.

According

this man does not speak Spanish

and his source could fur-

nish no description.

According to

an

told him that he

had received the following information from

another

who worked at the place mentioned.

This source re-

ported that there were twenty crated MIG fighter planes

at the San Antonio "bath" !

recall the

Spanish word used here). This source stated

that this

was an air base built by the U.S. Government.

The source

further reported that he had heard that between

30 and

35

Cuban pilots were presently in Czechoslovakia on a seven

months training course getting instructions for flying

the aforementioned MIG fighters.

stated that he had given full details concerning

the Soviet

to Assistant Chief, SRS.

freighter that had come in with the large crates

stated that it was most

interesting

that his source told him that the freighter

had come

through Cuban customs and into the harbor without

any routine harbor clearance and had swung immediately into

its berth along side one of the Havana docks.

According to

the source was one of the longshoremen who had been

Impressed to unload this Soviet freighter. The crates un-

loaded were enormous being 70 feet long approximately.

Source also stated that one of the crates had broken but

because of the careful packing of whatever it contained,

source was unable to identify its contents. According to

these huge crates were placed on big trucks and

were

taken

to specific areas, each one accompanied by 'jeeps.

himself could offer no explanation of the crates

What they were made of nor the size of capacity of the trucks

that moved these large crates.

Apparently

could furnish no additional details other than those given

to Assistant Chief, SRS.

AQUOINED FROM

SEP 30. 19/5

CLA

- 25-

NH 50955 DocId: 32203889

Page 28

---

## Page 29

stated that he learned from a former police-

man who served under Batista that every G-2 station in

Havana had cached 400 Czech machine guns and approximately

two million rounds of ammunition.

Source told

that

he knew this

to be true because he had worked putting these

items there.

himself definitely discount's this story.

reported that a source had obtained from another

source who worked at this place that there were 200 Russian

or East German (European) technicians at the Baracoa (ph)

base.

reported that he had received information that

at Marianu or Marianal there had been observed

a number of

These pairs of cranes consisted of a large

crane and a small crane which are apparently built together

and are so designed

that they are used for handling odd

shaped or unusual sized material. No other details given.

first incarcerated, he heard that the Cuban police claimed

erase that inside,

stated that inside the prison cell while he was

that they had in prison the head of the sabotage group;

the bead of the Activist grown and the Chief of Finance

of the Mira movement in ravana.

pretty close

to the men in the cell.

siaied that he sui

They apparently

liked him and in fact talked quite freely to him and that

when he rentioned this to several of these individuals, the

various men did not deny to him the above..

that

these prisoners admitted that they were connected with and

were leaders of one of the tio major sections of the MRR in

Havana.

stated that one of the above mentioned men whose

name

IS

claimed that while being interro-

gated he

was able to see reports which were signed by three

or four individuals which he recognized as double agents in

the ranks of MRR.

stated that as far as he was

concerned, the appearance of these names on reports indicated

that a heavy penetration of the MRR had been made by Castro's

intelligence.

According tol

was completely

discouraged by this but nevertheless clearly indicated to

_that he and his associates and his organization would

continue the struggle against Castro.

HUM

X....

SEX 2 1975

CIA

- 26-

SECRETT

AW 50955 DocId:32203089 Page 29

---

## Page 30

which he could then be considered an expert. Subject has

contacted a number of organizations in radio, television,

newspapers and magazines who had evidenced an interest in

securing from him

stories, pictures and taped interviews.

Approval tor the trip was

requested and $3,000 toward

financing of this trip.

He was to depart toward'

the end

of May and return

around the first of August.

The memo is

initialed "OS/SE" (SE being Sheffield Edwards, Director of

Security).

Ultimately his travel voucher covering this trip reflected

expenses

0f $4,544.38 with 93,000 advanced and the "balance not

claimed."

His

cover accounting for 7(6)-6/62 lists "Deficit on

trip to Asia" 1,544.38 as an expense and is offset againsi

listed income for that period. Besides other countries he was

in during the period 5/15 to 8/18/62, he spent 12 days in the

USSR and 14 days in Helsinki.

In September 1962,

reported on an item from a

September 1962 edition

of the

National Review concerning a

statement by Red China's Marshal Chen.

Sometime in the fall of 1962,

submitted three

reports icievant to a trip ho mude

cüring

the summon ot !9t!.

One report covered reports

made to the U.S. Embassies

Austral relectinentacted ter travelling through Syamerican

contacted

Embassy, Djakarta, in early

June, reporting that the Dutch

were preparing to

pull out of New Guinea; that in late June

Diem save any of an eccee intervie usts official t

a USIS official in

Vientiane; and that in late July (1962)

7 contacted the

political

section of the American Embassy in Helsinki reporting

information he had obtained in Samarkand and Tashkent, Soviet

In each case he identified himself only as a newsman

who thought he should report interesting information to his

government.

also reported to SRS interesting persons

visiting the USSR

in July 1962, to wit: L

Professor and Mrs.

I who he met in Tashkent;

Formally reported on who he met in tbilish in

He also

who he met in mid-June 1962

on a flight from Phom Penh to Saigon.

In addition, he formally

reported information he received from an

enlisted man at the

U.S. Air Station in Peshawar

Pakistan, in early June 1962,

concerning overflights by U.S. jets in

Southern USSR.

RECE

SEP 3: 1915

CIA

SECRET,

HW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 30

---

## Page 31

: TAIWAN AND FAR EAST TRIP - 1964

According to a memorandum dated 27 October 1964 from

a two week, all expense paid, round trip to laiwan as

a

result of

Tibet. I

of took a sarandun dated

to Chief, SRS, the "Chinat" government offered

_ American Legion magazine article on

will lecture and talk in Taiwan, and his planned

departure was

on or about 5 November 1964.

recommended that

be authorized to proceed

in this trip without any outside instruction in targets.

further recommended that l

Ibe given money in amount

of $500

to $1,000 to permit him to take advantage of the

"Chinat" trip

and make a "free lance" trip through Far East

(Tokyo, Hong

Kong, Indonesia, Thailand, Vietnam, Malaysia)

and return via Manila, P.I.

Chief,

SRS, noted in a slip of paper

attached to

memorandum that the Director of Security

approved $1.000

advance on 28 October 1964.

reccipi si

acknowledged

tho 91,000 cash on iû November 1904.

On 16 February 1965,

an accounting for the above trip was

submitted byl

and $37.28 of the $1,000 advanced was returned

as the unused portion of the advance.

In the interim, by 16 November 1964,

had contacted

Radio Free Europe in New York on his own,

and had been slated

to do research on the Far East utilizing

RFE files or in con-

junction with RFE officials:

was also

scheduled to act

as a free lance interviewer

and reporter during the course of

this pending ton the the far fast.

Through efforts of SRS,

this activity on the part of

_was curtailed.

11975

CIA

*SECRET

NH 50955

DocId: 32203889

Page 31

---

## Page 32

SEÜRET

WORLD YOUTH FESTIVAL, ALGIERS - 1965

The 9th Communist sponsored Wif, after early

speculation as to the probable site

at which it would be

held, was finally announced for Algeria from 27 July to

6 August 1965.

This WYF, however, was cancelled in late

June 1965 despite the advance planning and arrangements

that had gone into it.

An August 13, 1964, memo from

to C/SRS,

subject: Ith Wif, concerns what, if anything,

SRS and/or

I might do regarding the probable holding of a 9th

WYF during the summer of 1965.

had several weeks

earlier reminded

_that he,

had attended the

last one at Helsinki and had been active in the

"disruption of that festival."

wanted to

know if

SRS had

any planned operations in connection with gth

or had SRS given any thought to setting up some plans.

He pointed out that it would

take considerable time to

arboute plans for another penetration effort.

told

that

vas 100 diù

and too well krown to

spearhead any U.S. activities in that direction.

said

could, however,

organize and direct it, possibly

from

without the

area, if it were decided for SRS to tale

part.

indicated

that he would be perfectly willing

to commence working on it and to direct the operations

from behind the scenes.

asked

to write up and

submit a proposal regarding same if he had a chance.

suggested to C/SRS that the matter of penetration

and a disruptive effort in connection with the 9th WYF

be given consideration in the near future.

An October 1, 1964, memo for the record by

records an interview he had with

on 30 September 1964.

One long paragraph

titled "Communist Youth Festival

Ugiers, July 1965"' - notes that L

had spearheadec

anti-Communist attacks on Youth Festivals in Vienna and ir

Helsinki previously, has disrupted their programs, and nas

to a considerable extent interfered with their interested

at these festivals.

Because of this, l

once again in divisive

and disruptive efforts against

the Communists in Algiers in 1965. This time

states

MiL:

SEP 30 1975

CIA

-44 -

SECRET.

HW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 32

---

## Page 33

=

that it would be impossible to bring a big group to

Algiers and would in fact be dangerous because of the

attitude of the Moroccan government.

trained individuals who could proceed

and thee best

believes

that it would be best to have a small to the too

Jand who would be directed not at

gathering.

disruption or prophinselt stated that he would again

but would aim at intelligence

volunteer to go to Algiers at this time, not ostensibly

free lance newspaperman.

out that

undoubtedly he is now the top news authority in the u.s.

states that he believes

he can arrange financing trom private organizations and

individuals for the 3 to 6 individuals mentioned above

and possibly enough for travel by himself although this

may not be obtainable.

requests a study of this

matter and advice.

]SRS, received a phone call from

on 30 March

1965, wherein

Tadvised he had

mailed material to

I she had requested.

further adviser

ne was

then un a lecture tour se the

United States.

also discussed a previously

proposed trip

to Algiers to cover the World Youth Festival

and requested information as

formation.

to whether he would be al-

lowed to cover the festival.

recorded

that the Director of Security

gave his approval on

31 March 1965, but that

_activity at the festival

should be as

a passive observer

only.

A note dated 12 April 1965

to Chief, SRS from

regarding a 9 April 1965 phone conversation

with

states that in view of

Iplan to attend

the toutn Festival in August, she suggested that he not

repay the

$1,000 advance for

the China trip, but keep it

until he is assured of complete outside financing for the

Alglers trip. He would, as in the past, utilize this

fund to cover any deficit for his own travel costs; not

or any of the group which he supervises at the festival.

also inquiried as to extending his travel in

August to include 4-6 weeks in South America. Also,

regarding Algiers financing, l

said she learned only

very recently that the anticipated funding in some part

will

come from the backers of the American Security Council.

ACCEVED FROM

SEP 30 1975

GIA

- 45 -

SECRET

NH 50955 DooId:32203089 Page 33

---

## Page 34

An April 16. 1965. noto from

A 21 June 1965 memo from

reflects the status

of his fund raising activities for the 9th WYF project

and some data regarding the project.

Funds raised to

that date were some $1, 48s or more under auspices of

"Christianform, Inc."

said the

goal is to send

o delegates, 5

young men and a girl with a

seventh

person

in Algiers outside the delegation.

He will take

no active part in the project than to keep in touch

through the coordinator outside the delegation. Among

de the de kega

other things, each delegate is to get as much information

as possible about the U.S. delegation, including photos.

On return, all information on domestic leftists; will be

given to the FBI directly by the delegates. L

there is good hope that the projected budget of $3,000

will be fulfilled and that none of the money raised for

this project will be used

Day

expenses.

They

will be covered by the cover Organization earnings.

Although the WYF was belatedly cancelled in late

phasé of his planned travel.

June, L

did follow through with the So. American

Expense and travel vouchers

reflect

that

was

in the U.S. in July and in the

U.S. and South America in August and September 1965.

C6N8S FEM

SEP An 1975

CIA

46

SECRET

HW 50955

DocId: 32203889

Page

34

---

## Page 35

SOUTH AMERICAN TRIP - SUMMER 1965

Notes in early July 1965 indicate

was planning

a trip also to South America.

There is indication he

was to be in Washington, D.C., for SRS consultation on

12, 13 and 14 July 1965.

Sometime in July 1965,

prepared a memorandum

which he captioned "Re: Proposed South American Trip

July 1965."

He suggested private financing and gave his

targets as

the political

and military situation

especially Castro/Communist influence and insurgency war

danger.

There are notes of discussion with

on 15, 20

and 27 July 1965.

In response to a request from

prepared a partial list of his potinar contacts for

the South American trip and submitted the list on 27 July

noisd,

Americal pet DIrector of Security 7/28/65.

"Ci io madio tiin iu Sinêu

SRS/OS. "

_listed numerous personalities In South

America apparently resulting from suggestions

by the following:

Admiral

Radford, who suggested

contact

Brig. Gen, Vernon "Dick" Walters

in Rio de Janeiro

HE FROM

3eP 30 1975

DIA

47

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 35

---

## Page 36

businesses in South America

Among the numerous potential contacts lasted ba

were Paul Bethel and Jules Dubois who

told to avoid because they were being watched by local

services in South America.

in contacts

_was told to be careful

with Manuel Artime and the DRE representatives.

On 30 July 1965,I

met with

in Washington,

D.C., giving him instructions and a briefing for the

this data was formalized into a

memorandum by l

anen pan Ellion 5 Auzust lets and for arded to

Chief/SRS,

_recorded:

"1".

On Friday, 30 July 1965, pursuant

to instruction Erot the washi the

writer met

National Airport and talked with

him corcerning his pending trip to

South America.

-

was given a series of

suggestions and certain instructions

which are set forth following:

a .

He was under no circumstances

to visit Latin America and

•. the trip was to include only

• countries on the continent

of South America, starting

at Panama and thence South.

b.

C.

He was not to see either

Paul Bethel or Jules Dubois.

If he saw any of the Cuban

colony in Miami on his

way South, he was to stick

strictly to his cover and

he should remember that

most of these people were

connected with the Agency

.. i

SEP 19 1915

CIA

- 48-

SECRET

HW 50955

DocId: 32203889

Page

36

---

## Page 37

:

and

would report the

contact.

He was specif-

ically told to avoid

... 4

Concerning the DRE

representatives in

any

contacts either in Miami

or in South America, he

was

to use extreme caution

for two reasons: (1)

Many are now or have been

on our payroll and they

would report any contact;

(2) Many of these people

are unreliable and some

are clearly left wing.

e.

He was told that he was

at all cost to avoid risk

of capture and was

certainly not to subject

himselt to unnecessaiy

hazard. (He was specifically

told to stay only at the

best hotels since low-grade

hotels in South America

often constitute a per-

sonal security risk.

f. He was told that he should

use utmost discretion in

contacting U.S. officials

since many of these--

State, USIA, AID would

report his contact.

g.

He was given specific

and detailed instructions

that he is to report

without

fail upon departure

from each country except

in the places in which he

expects

to stay more than

RECEIVED FROM

SEP. 3n 1975

CIA

- 4,9 -

NW 50955 DooId: 32203889

Page 37

---

## Page 38

SECRET

a tew days.

These reports

are to be detailed and to

cover contacts and

infor-

mation gained. He was

not to make reports of any

kind to any person or U.S.

government agency except

CIA and then through agreed-.

upon channels only.

NOTE: It was agreed that

will send these

reports by mail to his wife

In New York City who will,

in turn, send

then by mail

to the writer's Washington

address.

In the event of

urgent matters, he is to

cable his wife

as a

newspaperman

would and

she, in turn, is to call

the

inFormation in as soon

as possible.

has

agreed to this and has

worked out the necessary

details with his wife who

will technically be the

Chief, SRS made suggestions as for

lows relative to particular

targets of interest:

a. Chicom activities which

are reflected in the

civil rights movement

in the United States.

b.

A study could be made

of why universities and

colleges in South America

are

safe haven for communist

RECEIVE

SEP 30 1975

CIA

- 50 .

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32203889

Page 38

---

## Page 39

:

I is an

and radical activities

and apparently

cannot be

touched by police.

Chief,

SRS felt

that this had

possibilities

of a

serious

article.

4.

Writer obtained from

a rough

itinerary of his tour through South

America.

Hotels are not included

but apparently

wife will

have some of these torwarded to

her by L

as moves from country

to

country.

List follows:

Bolivia - to August 6

Ecuador - 2 or 3 days

Peru - to August 15

Bolivia - to August 20

Chile - 3 cr 4 days

Argentina - to August 21

Uruguay - day or 2

Paraguay - to September 1

Brazil - 2 weeks

Venezuela - 2 or 3 days

Home

- September 17

wrote reports from Lima on 10 and 13 August

1965; Buenos Aires received circa 2 September 1965;

Asuncion on 31 August 1965; and Brasilia, on 8 September

1965.

A draft of some of the information was prepared

on 15 September 1965.

-i:

SEP 30 1975

CIA

- 51 -

SECRET

NW 50955

DocId: 32203889

Page 39

---

## Page 40

The file contains

handwritten notes of interviews

with

dated s and 9 March 1966; 3,7, 14, 17 and

27 February 1966;

and a copy of an article from the

"National Review," dated 5 October 1965, by Robert

Peter, captioned, "Communist Priests in South America."

prepared a fairly extensive report circa late

captioned "Brazilian Intelligence, Recife," but which

also has subheading of:

Police Training; Return to Venezuela; Chinese Espionage

in Argentina;

Circa the same time, L

_prepared a report captioned,

Argentina,

" With subheadings of:

Argentine Intellivence. Indonesian Emhassr in Araontina;

RIS in Rio;

and Illegal Tassports in manus, brazil.

A sterilized version of all the foregoing was

prepared in SRS and nassed tol

WH/SO, on

L7. Necember 1965 by

had also given reports on: Chicoms in Chile;

Barrientos

Killed in Vietnam; Secret

Talks Among Military;

Lack of Soviet Response to Increased Chicom Propaganda;

and Local Stringers for U.S. Publications Connected with

Commies.

It was possible l

would prepare reports on:

Action Popular; White Russian Refugees in Brazil, Russian

Repartiates from South America; and Chicom Spy Suspects

in Argentina.

SEP 90 1975

CIA

- 52 -

SECRET'

NW 50955

DooId: 32203889

Page

40

---

## Page 41

:

OTHER ACTIVITY, 1965-1974

..SM

52: 0 1975

UlA

There are handwritten notes of conversations with

dated 7, 14, 18, 19 and 24 May 1965.

The gist is

that

apparently planning a trip to the mid west

and

then

later to Algiers in North Africa. During the

19 May 1965 conversation between

talked to

comments

had not complied with instructions re vouchers.

claimed misunderstanding and that he could not

furnish desired info on vouchers she presently

to use his memory and any notes he

had and to fill in desired info per the written instructions

given him byl

He said he

would do

SO.

7 then

told him to explicitle follow written

instructions from

or vouchers

could not be accepted......

was also reminded of

reports due which he should get out prior to leaving on

his speaking tour.

He agreed."

Apparently, the trip was

to start on 23 May lasting until 1 June 1905 and the

Young mccang for Freedom were picking up all dirences.

going to Cleveland, Milwaukee, Chicago and

Minneapolis.

There are notes of conversation with

dated

2, 7, 10, 15, 17, 22, 25, 28 June; 2, O, 9, July and 41

July 1965.

was having trouble with

his back at this time and could not sit down and bend

for typing.

He was given the name of Dr. David S. Baldwin,

20 East 68th St., N.W., to contact.

Regarding his travels,

was told he would have to submit detailed reports

of contacts to show what he is doing, etc.

Apparently,

the mid-West speaking tour was partially geared to gather

funds for Algerian

trip.

There is a note in the file, to wit:

"For

"Why not get the American Legion magazine

to publish an Article 'Chaos in our Colleges'

with a hard attack on the weak knee college

and university advisers that permit violence,

disruptions, waste of college and tax payers

money, phoney students - what about the decent

students who want to study, etc."

This note

was apparently written by

- 53 .

HW 50955

DocId: 32203889

Page

41

---

## Page 42

A Z July 1965 handwritten note apparently pre-

pared for a briefing

of Wiley states partially, "Turn

over any assts to 'B' (FBI) they want - cooperate."

_In July 1965,

received information from

concerning his contacts with the American Security

Council (ASC)

and a mid-West speaking trip during the

period 24 May

to 1 June 1965.

The latter trip, according

to

was paid for by the Young Americans

for Freedom.

Regarding his contacts with the American Security Council,

advised:

"My contact with ASC goes back to the

middle 1950's when I first met

At that time he was setting up the organization

based on

files.

Before it was

named ASC, the org. was the Mid-American

Research Library, and, later, Fidelifax.

(Perhaps vise versa).

"Over the years I've been in touch with

ASC frequently. In addition to

I know

- both tormer fri

men who worked on the subversive desk in New

York (and elsewhere?) •

_left ASC in 1962

to join the

Hoover Co.,

Canton,

Ohio.

My

last information is that he was

in their White

Plains, N.Y. office.

Another man in the Chicago

office whom I met was

a research

specialist. I have no knowledge of his back-

ground.

"In the Washington Office, I know!

a friend for years before he joined ASC.

While he was

in Washington, I also knew l

Ja former ONI

man?). I believe he is presently in Europe.

"My first contact with

was in the fall

of 1964.

(NOTE: During my

conversation with

told me that the Chinese Air Force U-2 Flights

he

were tied

in with CIA).

I spoke to him about my trip to Asia

because of his having been in the area and to obtain

outlets for material.

the Chinese Embassy, and I think it was

Twas in close touch with

who

RECEIVED FROM

SEP SM 1975

CIA

• 54 =

SECRET

AW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 42

---

## Page 43

suggested I see him.

offered to take taped material

from me.

My only other contact was a phone talk with him

in March 1965.

"While in Taivan I was told by

of the U.S.M.A.A.G. office that

Thad directly

attributed information to another MAAG officer who

had briefed him.

When the story was printed (by North

American Newspaper Alliance?), the officer was in trouble.

indicated that he thought it was

an honest

breakdown in communication between the officer and

and that it was not deliberate.

During my March

phone

conversation with

I told him aboutl

disclosure to me

the situation).

the had agreed that I tell

about

seemed quite surprised.

"On March 16 I had dinner with

in New

York.

is handling radio prograns for ASC (out of

the Washington office). He also produces shows for NBC

radio (including a farm program). I've also had several

phone conversations with

in Washington.

On 29 December 1965,

called

information concerning a fortncoming Ebuure article on

espionage; and brought up the idea of moving to Washinaton.

arranged to have

to come to Washington in the near future to discuss the

matter with

Apparently,

removing himselt from contact with

_was

about this

time.

Apparently on 14 January 1966

met

discussing his possible move to Washington,

his lecture tour and use of vouchers for travel expenses.

A notation dated only 1966 states to the effect that

is known on the

Decause of the relationship between Filipello

(sic) and Congressman Daddario.

"Numerous persons know

other than perhane a half dan

NEGENER

ROM

SEP 30 1975

CIA

- 55 -

NW 50955 DooId: 32203889

Page 43

---

## Page 44

SECRET.

A handbill dated

6 January 1966 reflects|

was to be a speaker at a "Pro-Vietnam

Teach-In" sponsored

by the young merleans tor recdon and the Princeton don

servative Club.

is characterized as a free lance

journalist, and an authority on International Communism

who covered wars in Katanga, New Guinea, Laos, Vietnam,

Algeria and Angola.

In early 1966, 1

provided adverse information

_ on Fred Coldren, Executive Director, International Federation

for Freedom, Inc.

In early 1966,

prepared reports concerning

Daniel Davidson, special assistant to William Bundy anc

- Steve Tyler, a free lance writer who in 1957 had attended

the World Youth Festival in Moscow.

In early 1966, [

prepared reports concerning

_ Vladimir G. and Enma Treml; DI. and Mrs. Ivan D. London,

Robin Moore; and Peter Korn. An additional report con-

cerning Treml was prepared in February 1966.

In Hebruary 1965,

prepared a report concerning

— Christopher Emmet, Wilfiam Pawley, William T. McConarty,

Mr. (FNU) Aistrop, MI. (FNU)

Eng, and Jay Kennedy.

In February 1966,

prepared a report concerning

- Gene Farmer, Sr., Editor, Life Magazine whom

met

while discussing an article on Soviet spies.

There are handwritten notes of contacts with

on 19 and 21 April 1966 mainly concerning articles about

CIA which appeared in the May 1966 issue of "Esquire."

le id not know the authors. After apparent approval

by the Director of Security,

_was authorized to

contact one (Fnu) Erickson of "Esquire" to determine

the identity of the authors.

There are notes of a verbal report by

dated

27 April 1966 concerning

Alex Roark.

In March 1966,

prepared a report captioned,

"Rumours of John and Robert Kennedy Affairs" apparently

based

on information froin Nancy Czarnecki with whom

apparently had just had

contact. She is from Los

Angeles,

California.

RECE

SEP 310 1975

CIA

CEPPETI

NH 50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 44

---

## Page 45

SECRET

In April 1966,

prepared a report concerning

• George Freyman of Bellingham, Washington; and concurrently

a report captioned,

"Tourists Going to the USSR and Iron

Curtain in Summer of 1966,", specifically mentioning

Stephen Talbott and Richard Bocklet.

In April 1966,

prepared a report concerning

Geoffrey Aldridge, USAF, Information Office of the Alaskan

Air Command, Elmendort Air Force Base; and Lt. General

Raymond J. Reeves, Commander-in-Chief, Alaska, who L

had apparently met in the area of Kotzebue on 8 April

1966.

Circa 6 June 1966,

prepared two reports con

cerning John Riley, mêmber of the Veterans of Oss.

On 28 July 1966,

submitted a short report on

Camera Press Pix, a British corporation engaged in world

wide distribution of photos taken of the Vietnam war

in and around Hanoi.

A report concerning Col. Esteban Venture Nova, dated

5 August 1066 was forwarded.

sunnlied certain

information auoui Trujiiio and neiù Romeistein, an ncon

investigation, sat in on the interview.

on 2 September 1966, submitted information

about the Queens

Chapter (Long Island, New York) Women

Strike for Peace.

On 21 October 1966,

submitted a report con-

cerning Michael Struenlins

(Streulens) based

on infor-

mation he had received from John Lewis, American Security

Council, Washington, D. C. on 22 September 1966. Concur-

rently, L

_ submitted a report on Ray McConnon as re-

ceived from Herb Romerstein.

On 5 August 1966, l

prepared a report dealing

with a potential trip to South Africa extended by Chemus

J. J. Geldenhuys, Public Affairs Officer, Information

Service of South Africa,

N. Y.1

again submitted a

report on this

topic on

21 October 1966.

RECEIVED FROM

SEP 9) 1975

CIA

- 57 .

HN 50955 DocId: 32203889

Page 45

---

## Page 46

On 2 November 1966,

submitted a report on

Edward Scannel Butler who

was in New York on 26 October

1966 to review a documentary film he had produced about

CastrO.

Apparently Butler had a radio debate with Lee

harvey

Oswald just prior to President Kennedy's

assassination.

In late 1966 or early 1967,

submitted a number

of public brochures distributed

attendant to the production

of the films, "Troublemakers," "Mass," etc.

In early 1967,

prepared a report concerning

Vladimir G. and Emma Tremi

based on

a personas letter;

and concurrently a report on DI. and Mrs. Ivan D. London.

Circa November 1966.

prepared a report con-

some individuals he contacted.

captioned the report,

"Attempts to Stop Recruiting on College Campuses, (II)."

In late 1966,

prepared a report on information

he received from

Lyle Munson on 3n November 1966 concerning

a former CIA man

Chomicals Company

.

connected with Dow

Sometime before 2 December 1966,

prepared a

report which he captioned,

"Attempts to stop Recruiting on

College Campuses."

leads off the renort with the

RECEIV...

/ROM

SEP 30 1975

CIA

- 58 -

NH 50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 46

---

## Page 47

÷1.

Arlington House Publishers was the subject of a

report submitted during January 1967. The report dis-

cusses the factional fight to control the publishing

company.

In March 1967,

prepared a report which he

captioned,

"D.C. Reaction to Exposure of CIA Cover

Operations."

It would appear that the majority of the

information came from Nick Nonnenmacher, administrative

assistant to Rep. Henry C. Shadeburg.

Circa March 1967, l

forwarded three brochures

listributed by the canadiar

• Loyalist Movement which were

mailed to

3. C., Canada.

7(?) by F.C. Pilkington, North Vancouver,

An advertisement in Human

Events, 19 August 1967,

identifios

as the brecutive mirector; Nailunal

Committee for Responsible Patriotism, 500 Fifth Avenue,

N. Y., N.Y., 10036.

This group had planned a series of

parades

throughout the country on October 21-22 1967,

mobilizing support for U.S. soldiers in Vietnam and

respect for law and order.

_ participation with

this group was the topic of an article appearing in the

20 August

1967 edition of The Worker, captioned,

"The Elusive Charles Wiley,

prior material published about

rehashing sace poure

background.

ere introduced into the

on 22 June 1966 by Senator Peter H. Dominick (also

previously submitted by Senator Joseph M. Montoya)

and another on 27 April 1965 by Representative E. Brad-

ford Morse.

In December 1970, l

prepared a report concerning

David Braum of the Vietnam Veterans Against the War.

In early January 1972, L

_submitted a program

captioned "Friendship Program for Foreign Military Per-

sonnel Stationed in the United States," which in essence

ROM

SEP. 30 1975

CIA

- 59 SECRET

AW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 47

---

## Page 48

would be a U.S.0. for foreign military personnel stationed

in the U.S.

friendship.

contended it would build up good will and

was told we have no interest in such a

project.

The fall 1972 "Arlington House Publishers" contained

an article by Intelligence Source edited byl

to why Source , a charter member of the Americam Communist

Party, joined the Party and then left to fight Communism.

cIOn 19/0-14,

at the request oi shs, monitored

Source: book to make sure any operations

in which

Source

might have been involved were not exposed.

Intelligence Source

a former KGB officer who

defected in

, has been and continues to be of Agency

interest.

For some time, Source: had expressed a personal

desire to author a factual book on the KGB based on his per-

sonal

knowledge and observations.

The draft of a proposed

manuscript was prepared, and Source

requested assistance

in obtaining an editorial review and

an introduction to

persons in

the publishing business who might be interested

in publishing a factual type book on the KGB.

T??S

introduced to sonere

as an individual who

coula gevo citotla assictanoo and bed certein conterte

in the publishing business.

During July - August 1914,

met Source

on three

occasions.

There was a degree

of incompatibility of temperaments, in addition to a dif-

ference of opinion concerning

general content,

format and

tenor of the proposed manuscript, and at the request of

any further involvement

the proposed manuscript was terminatea.

with regard to

Circa September 1973,

prepared a report which

he captioned, "Personnel

on Staff

of Soviet Exhibition

EXPO, Montreal, Canada - July 1973," wherein he indicated

he attended EXPO on 14 July 1973. He also provided a photo-

graph of an individual believed Russian, he thought of interesi.

directed the report of photos ton

T C/RB

and

The latter said he was unable to do anything with

the photos at

for the

the time and directed the material back to L

file.

On 6 November 1973, a report was received from

cOn-

cerning one Pamela Spates, who indicated to

she had

baen

active in SDS and later the Weathernen.

IRON

IP - 1967-68

On 4 December 1967,

StPan) dificial invitation

CIA

reported that he had rcceived

visit

Vietnam through

• 60 -

HW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 48

---

## Page 49

the Foreign Ministry of that country. The Vietnamese

Government will pay all his transportation and living

costs while on the trip and the invitation resulted from

urgings by Nguyen Quoc Ten, press officer of the

Vietnamese mission to the U.N. in New York City.

was certain that his reputation as a friend of the Vietna-

mese triggered

the invitation.

Approval was given him to make the trip; however,

his request to extend the trip through other places

in the Far East and Europe was turned down.

On 18 December 1967,

the memo

to the Chief, SRS,

that

(SRS) reported in

forthcoming trip on 15 December 1967.

briefed him on the

to stay out of the front lines and take

to involve himself in any situation that might jeopardize

his safety.

€ on the in any

was told

precautions not

(Chief/SAD, OS) accompanied

to the meeting and

to which he acceded.

presented a requirement to

Apparently

presence at the

meeting had the approval of the Chief, SRS. L

agreed to cooperate whole-heartedly with

! For

the

was loaned a two-suit suitcase, "medication

in the came tablets and was astructed to purchase

sufficiont colci film.

There is

no explanation in the file concerning the requirement

levied by

submitted a report concerning a debriefing

concerning

his Vietnam trip.

"During a debriefing session in Washington, D.C.

30 April 1968

was rather surprised

by the lack of interest in my findings.

The interviewer

asked almost no questions and didn't take notes.

talking to someone who has a great many sources of

information available, I had little way of knowing what

might be of interest to him. On several occasions during

the interview I specifically asked if there were any

i ask a 1e the

particular information that he wanted.. There was no

response.

"I was in Vietnam for over a month - through the

Tet "truce" offensive - as a guest of that country's

government. I had private discussions with President

Thieu, Vice President Ky, Some of these were very

frank.

All were long (over two hours each with Thieu

and KY) and I was treated as a friend. In addition,

1 SauMany top U

•S. leaders

including General Westmore-

and representatives of other nations (the chinese

ser :) 1975

CIA

• 61-

HW 50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 49

---

## Page 50

ambassador, the commander of all Thai troops in Vietnam,

etc.).

In nearly all cases ! either knew them previously

or reached these men

through personal introductions from

mutual friends. At no point in the debriefing was I

asked whom I had contacted and there was no interest

when I volunteered the information.

"The fact that I have

an almost open door to the office

of the Vietnamese

ambassador in Washington and their United

Nations Mission

also met with no response.

I am in a posi-

tion to get their thinking

on almost any subject and am

also somewhat influential."

On the transmittal slip to the C/SRS,., noted,

"too bad

_went on about domestic political matters

at the debriefing

instead of concentrating

livin

10M

SEP 30 1975

CIA

62

SECRETI

HW 50955

DocId:32203889

Page

50

---

## Page 51

SECRETI

EUROPEAN TRIP, 1970

who claims that the basic reason for the trip

was

an invitation from the German Ministry of Defense, visited

West Germany, England, Italy, France,

Belgium, The Netherlands

and lugoslavia.

During

the German sojourn he visited the

German Army, Navy and AIr orce installations.

He was told

prior to departure that CIA had no tasks for him to perform.

The results of

Itrip appeared in the American Legion

lagazine tor March 1971.

to reflect any approval

of and payment for

sand pay at other rector this

trip.

Circa August 1970 ,L

_prepared a report on one

trom the Philippines, near Manila..

Apparently,

met Naval "enroute to the Bonn

Airport."

This informa-

tion

was formalized into a report on

25 September 1970 and

sent to C/ID/1 with the intention it be provided to FE Divi-

sion.

ROM

SEP 10 1975

CIA

- 63-

SECRET:

HW 50955

DocId: 32203889

Page

51

---

## Page 52

SECRET'

: WORLD FESTIVAL, EAST BERLIN, 1973

held in East

someilme prior to the event,.

brought up the question of our possible interest

Agency components) and his availability and capability to be

helpful finding

appropriate delegates, funding,

cover.

Despite

being shunted off such

an activity, he did

apparently assist a young woman acquaintance,

Third Agency

Source

; to travel as one of the American delegates.

considered her his proteges and claimed to have given her

training and counsel and also to have directed her to the tbi.

Source

,ostensibly a member of the leftist group of American

delegates, observed, took photos, and went on to the USSR with

She allegedly made her information and photos

to the FBI in debriefings and reports after her

return.

Circa 14 August 1973:

submitted a list of attendees

at the 1076 Dolin Youth

Festive?. Whenl

the list to the attention oi

-

brougnt

Chief,

Research

Branch, with the suggestion of providing the list to CAS and

"Ober's shop,"

indicated the latter.

• will

SEP : : 1975

CIA

-64 -

SECRET

HH 50955

DooId: 32203889

Page 52

---

## Page 53

SECRETI

:

INVOLVEMENT IN CUBAN EXILE ACTIVITIES

On 28 October 1960

nrepared reports on

the latter of which

nad been arrested in Cuba.

submitted an undated report captioned,

"Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (Cuban Student

Directorate)," particularly concerning Lesmes Ruiz, Jr.,

of the Revolutionary Student Directorate (DRE).

A

report captioned, "Contact with the Cuban

Revolutionary Student Directorate" is undated, but

reflects

first contact with the DRE.

infoined

Ti 19 Docember 1051

I DA

approaches him and asted him to "rose

around" about the people coming off the islana (cuva)

avise that the agento de the request ure ird Ageney

Employec. Of the Nei York Office (FBI) who wanted to

attend

a meeting of the P.I. which, according to

is a small anti-Castro Cuban group.

ROM

- 65-

SEP 1975

SECRET

HH 50955

DocId: 32203889

Page

53

---

## Page 54

SECRET.

On 27 December 1962,

I reported ofl

JOf SRS, his then

case officer, that he, I

believed a trip to Miami, Fla, in the

near future could

be very profitable from both the straight reporting

aspect,

and through his thus being able to re-establish

contact with several Cubans with whom he is acquainted.

His most important contact is with Manuel Artimenas just

of the leaders of the Cuban invasion force, who

been released by Castro.

7 further noted

that

is also acquainted with several other cubans

of some importance,

one of these being a member of the

"Alpha 66" group which ran several small operations

against Cuba during 1962.

From 31 January through 10 February 1963,

was in Miami, Fla., contacting Cuban exiles and exile

organizations. His main target was

Manuel Artime and

his associates, with secondary target, the Cuban

Student Directorate. He submitted a long and detailed

report of his trip.

Some of the information was pub-

lished

into finished memoranda.

Minpoit dated circe February 1963 concerns a

"Castro Raid on British Islands."

Circa February 1963,

I preprared a report on

U.S. citizens and Canadians

Cuba.

The file contains a copy of HN-1-30, dated 25 February

1963, announcing

the Agency formation of a "Task Force

on Cuba" under the direction of James J. Hitchcock.

Colonel

Edwards brought the matter to the attention of Robert

Barden with the caent This mion e the place to.

feed in reports from

source.

Bannerman

advisedl

"When you have report already,

we can take this up with Hitchcock."

On 12 April 1963, SRS prepared two final reports

based

information concerning J.M. Hernandez, aka:

"Manolin;" and the Comite Latino Americano de Informacion

(Latin American Information Center).

On 5 June 1963, L

prepared a report

on "Cuban

Exiles and Associates,

" specifically mentioning Paul

Bethel, Manuel Ray, Manuel Artime and Alex Rorke.

HUM

- 66-

SEP 20 1975

CIA

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 54

---

## Page 55

SECRET

On 8 August 1963,

verbally reported information

he had received regarding Cuban activities.

On 11

on the basis of a phone call tol

september 1963, a report was prepared in sRs

I concerning Nira

Hardon and "Artime."

An undated report prepared by l

(including con-

ersations with

late September 1963)

concerned recent intormation on Cuban exile activity

from New York sources.

On 4 October 1963

prepared a report concerning

the Revoluntionary Student Directorate leadership. He

indicated he thought very highly of this organization.

On 15 September 1963:

prepared

a report

which he captioned, "Details of

Town Hall Rally and Cuban

Planning for It" which concerned Cuban exile activity.

to be airected against the rally of leftist American

visitors to Cuba."

also indicated he was involved

as an advisor to the Cuban exiles

regarding his opinion

as to Amorican reaction to specific activities, the scope

of press coverage, their rights in the hall, etc.

Inder the date of 9 October 1963, SRS prepared a

I page formal report based on

above-mentioned

Cubail reports which was captioned, "Information Regarding

DRE and Other Cubans - New York City." This report was

given to WH Division on 11 October 1963.

Sometime after 10 November 1963,

submitted a

list of his contacts in New York City during the weeks

of 28 October and 4 November 1963.

Sometime in very late 1963,

prepared a report

containing information on lee Harvey Oswald which he

received from

_alleged

he met Oswald

Village."

FBI with the

On KEY ToT last verter in or gu to tho

stated, "I urged

information and offered to arrange a meeting.

He promised to tell them the story, and made contact

knew because of past

activities."

exile matters.

provided information on Cuban

- 67-

SEP -9 1975

CIA

SECRET!

NH 50955 DocId: 32203889

Page 55

---

## Page 56

SECRET!

On 26 December 1963,

prepared a report on

general Cuban matters based on information he received

from I

This matter was given to Wh

Division on 3 January 1964 by

Sometime before 21 January 1964,

a list of his

contacts for the period

to the

end of 1963.

Circa 30 September 1964,

information

concerning

formalized

into a

report by

1965.

prepared

9 December 1963

provided verbal

which was

on 11 January

The file contains notes of a conversation dated

7 October 1964. Apparently on the basis of this conver-

sation,

I prepared a formal report which he

captioned:

"Cuban Information, Source -

hirh nertained to Soviet missile and submarine activity

in Guise.

This seport was brought to the artention se the

Director of Security with the recommendation that

sterilized version be brought to the attention of

(DD/P) on

the instructions of

On 30 April 1966,

Oswaldo F. Hernandez-Campos,

prepared a report on

a veteran of the Bay of Pigs.

OVERSEAS TRAVEL

financial records, i.e, travel vouchers,

Federal Income tax forms and

cover organization accountings,

reflect the following travel:

Fron 17 June to 25 August 1959, _

went to France,

Spain, Algeria, Tunisia, Italy, Yugoslavia, Greece, Egypt,

Lebanon, Syria,

Iran, Irad, Jordan,

Israel, Cyprus, Turkey,

Aliya

- 68-

SEP :? 1975

CIA

SECRET'

NH 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 56

---

## Page 57

SECRETI

Germany, Vienna, Austria (7th World Youth Festival),

USSR, Poland East Germany, West Germany and England.

SRS underwrote $556.70 of transporation costs to

be offset by earnings,

if sufficient.

The amount was

advanced

on 16 June 1959. There are

no other, vouchers

in the 1959 travel and salary vouchers file concerning

this trip.

Apparently between 6 June and 29 June 1960,

visited Cuba,

Jamaica, Dominican Republic and Puerto

Rico.

The 1960 Federal income tax return shows two

trips to the Caribbean; however, no dates are shown.

the caribbean

One of 21 days to the

areas mentioned above. The

accounting for the period December

I959 to June 1960 shows a 21 day overseas trip - airfare:

$232.18 and 21 days per diem.

Between 23 July and 4 August 1960,

went to

Cuba. The 1960 Federal income tax return noted above

shows one trip of 9 days to Cuba. The July 1960-June

1961

accounting shows a Cuba trip expense

Or s000.00 and

this expense was uffset against

income.

There were no other vouchers available

concerning this trip. It is felt that this trip was

approved by the Agency. A news account, dated 4 August

1900, reflects that

was expelled by the

Cubans on that date after 8 days in prison withou

charges.

From April through July 1961,

traveled through

Africa and Europe.

The 1961 Federal income tax return

reflects a

trip of 73 days. The July 1960 through June

accounting shows expenses of 73 days per diem

$1,460.00 less a home officel

_advance of $147.29 -

$1,312.71 as offset against income. A travel voucher

for April-July 1961 shows: Per diem $1215.29.

Transpor-

tation $1324.06, other $907.65 for a total of $3497.00.

From this was subtracted

advance of $1900.00 by SRS

on 13 April 1961.

An itinerary for Africa and Europe for

April to July 1961 shows: Lisbon, Tangier, Dakar, Conakry,

- 69 -

SEP :0 1975

CIA

SECRET

AN 30955 Doc1d:32203889 Page 57

---

## Page 58

SECRETI

Elizabethville, Northern Rhodesia,

Dar es Salaam,

Zanzibar, Kenya, Addis Ababa, Athens,

Bulgaria, Rumania, Budapest, Prague, Berlin, London

Zurich.

and

15 May - 22 August 1962 - the 1962 Federal income

tax return reflects a 93 day trip to Australia, S.E. and

Mid-East, Asia, USSR and Europe.

An April 1962 memorandum

reflects that the Director of Security approved $3000

-Oward this planned trip. Them

accounting for

July 1961-June 1962 shows

a deficit on a trip to Asia

01 $4, 538.38 minur $3, 000.00 ($1,538.38).

The file

contains a billing from the Cosmos Travel Bureau, Inc.

for $2,521.54 and receipts for same paid in April and

May 1962.

The file contains a copy of a Form 281 Request

for Advance of $3000.00, dated 1 May 1962.

A travel

voucher form 22 covering May-August 1962 shows $4,544.38

in expenses for the trip.

The itinerary is as follows:

Auckland, Melbourne, Canberra, Syndey, Brisbane, Sydney,

Djakarta, Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Bangkok, Saigon, Phnom

Penh, Vientiane, Rangoon,

Helsinki, (July - August) Stockholm, Os10, Copenhagen,

Berlin, Frankfurt, Lugano, London and New York City.

The 1964 Federal Income tax return reflects a 31 day

trip to Asia from 15 November - 31 December 1964.

On 27

October 1964, in a memo to Chief/SRS,

stated

that the CHINAT Govt.

has offered

a two week,

all expense paid, round trip to Taiwan. He recommended

approval, plus "I also recommend that|

be given some

money in

the amount of $500 to $1000 to permit him to

take advantage of the CHINAT trip and make a

'free lance'

Tale to le the are that i on on on the ,..

Director of Security on 30 October 1964. $1000 was advanced

on 10 November 1964.

The trip was

made in November

and December 1964.

A travel allowance concerning the trip

shows: Expenses of $962.78 expended out of $1000 advanced.

Itinerary as of 15 November was Alaska, Tokyo, Hiroshima,

Nagasaki, Tokyo, Seoul, Taiwan (26 Nov-11 Dec) Hong Kong,

TRUM

SEP 30 1915

CIA

- 70 -

NH 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 58

---

## Page 59

Macao, Cambodia, Manila, Singapore, Kuching, Brunei,

Singapore, Vietnam, Brussels, Amsterdam, London and New

: York City.

The 1965 Federal income tax return shows a 49 day

trip

to South America from 31 July to 17 September 1965.

Originally an extended trip had been approved to include

the Ith World Youth Festival as planned for Algiers.

The World Youth Festival was cancelled, but

a trip to

cover Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, Chile, Argentina, Uruguay,

Paraguay, Brazil and Venezuela remained.

Expenses

were to be covered by the cover fund..

In a memo con-

cerning his proposed South American

trip for July 1965,

_advised that "The

7 fund is sufficient to pay

all expenses, and the income from the trip should be

enough to return the money and show a profit (perhaps

a very good one)." A travel voucher shows expenses

for the trip 31

$2234:72.

Itinerary: New York City, Miami, Panama,

Bogota, Quito, Lima, Cusco, La Paz, Santiago, Cordoba,

Buenos

Asuncion, Iguape,

Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro,

Brasilia, Rio de Janeiro, Reclife, Belem,

Manaus, Caracas,

New York City. The cover accounting for 1965 shows the

Sonth American

trip expense of 9??34.?? was offset against

income

and there is no record of an advance.

No foreign travel is reflected in the Federal Income

Tax Returns or files for 1966 or 1967.

The 1968 Federal income tax return reflects

trip to Athens, Cairo, Indo-China, Manila, Taipei

a 55 day

Seoul. An 18

December 1967 memo to Chief, SRS, from Cecil

C. Tighe related to his briefing

regarding the

up-coming trip byl

to Vietnam and Laos, warning him

to exercise care and not expose himself unnecessarily to

danger.

An accounting of the expenses for the trip l6 January

to 9 March reflects that air transportation was

supplied

by the Government

of Vietnam.

The itinerary shows:

Athens,

Bangkok, Vientiane, Saigon, Hong Kong, Macao, Manila,

Taipei

and Seoul.

Total other expenses of $828.11 were

incurred and are

reflected as an expense in the 1968 cover

accounting and offset against income.

-idl

- 71-

SEP =0 1975

CIA

SECRET

NN J0953 D001d:32203689

Page 59

---

## Page 60

SECRETI

1969 Federal income tax return reflects

a 21 day trip

to Germany, Belgium,

and Luxemburg and

claims transportation was furnished by the U.S. Armed

rorces. A memo of a trip to Germany 20 January to 8

February 1969 indicates|

was covering altit

operation Reforger I.

This trip was apparently as al

invitee of the U.S. military which supplied most of the

travel needs.

No travel voucher was submitted to CIA

but overseas

as expenses in the 1969/

trip expenses of $502.26 are charged

fund accounting offset

against income. The itinerary shows: Brussels, Germany

and Luxemburg.

The 1970 Federal income tax return indicates a

2 month trip to Europe, primarily Germany, during July

and August 1970. It says much of trip expense provided

by the West German Government.

did not make the

tax return.

shows an overseas trip expense of $664.74 to be offset

against income.

He indicates transportation from D.C.

to Germany and return was provided by the German Air

Tung mg that a three mook tour of Cormen bacoc vog

covered by the German Defense Ministry.

The Irip took

place in July and August 1970 and besides Germany

included: London, Paris, Rome, Brussels, The Hague,

and Zagreb.

No foreign travel is reflected in the Federal Income

tax return or office records for 1971.

1973 Federal income tax return shows a one

month trip to

Vietnam, Hong Kong, and Taiwan.

1972

accounting reflects expenses

Patrior: na

Vietnam trip but in his income he shows an allowance

of $475.00 made by the National Committee for Responsible

Patriots (NCRP), for the trip.

The expense listing

attached reflects those expenses and claims roundtrip

airfare and

some other expenses were provided by others

(possibly air transportation expenses were provided by

some segment of the Vietnam Government). The itinerary

shows: Hong Kong, Vietnam, and Taipei.

Whether

had any foreign travel in 1973 is

unknown since his 1973 Federal income tax return ande

accountings have not been received to date, 25 March

1974.1iV1

SEP 30 1975

-72-

CIA

SECRET

AW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 60

---

## Page 61

SECRET!

UTILIZATION, CONTROL AND CASE OFFICERS

On 9 January 1963,

of SRS wrote the first

memo spelling out

Jdetailed use by the Agency. It

is quoted

in

part as follows:

"UTILIZATION FROM 1957 TO DATE

"In the original plan,

was to be

used for special research

work, special investi-

gations,

and in very general terms, as a penetration

into right-wing groups and the right-wing literary

field in New York City.

He has conducted

on organizations of interest to SRS, carried out

specialized assignments of a covert

investigative

nature on individuals of interest

to this Staff,

and gradually began to develop himself into a free

lance writer and journalist. During this period,

extended his field of contacts to include

a great many persons

and organizations in the right-

wing and anti-Communisi calegury, and thus was able

to furnish us as required, information on activities

and many individuals in this area.

Under SRS gui-

dance, he conducted harassment exercises

against

the Communist World Youth Festivals in Vienna

(1959),

and Helsinki (1962): In addition, he obtained con-

siderable valuable information on

individuals in

attendance at the Festivals and the Communist tactics

used in these Communist sponsored meetings.

"Further, during 1959-1962,

made

many trips in behalf of SRS, including a iournalistic

trip to Cuba where he

Havana in an effort to odtain information of a matter

of grave interest to this Agency. He has made many

trips overseas; has visited most of Africa,

the Near

and Middle East,

Satellite countries and has been twice in the

most of kurope, much of Asid soviet

Union on our behalf. In addition to important

formation, photographs,

etc., which he obtained for

us, his stature as a writer-journalist-photographer

has increased, which in turn has widened his circle

of contacts.

His last trip, which took him through

-73-

SEP : 1915

CIA

SECRET

HW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 61

---

## Page 62

SECRET

Southeast Asia, across

the Soviet Union and ended

at the Youth Festival in Helsinki this past sum-

vas highly productive, and it will' be recalled

that Mr. Miley and his covert associates thoroughly.

disrupted the Communist Youth Festival.

Information

on the Soviet Union which he obtained while there has

been given to SR Division in a series of debriefings.

Son to SR Barision

"WORLD NEWS ANALYSIS

: Approximately three years ago, in an effort

to provide

with a more substantial mechanism

for operations and to increase his journalistic repu-

tation, it was decided

that he would set up a news-

gathering service based in New York City and secure,

where possible, the services of writers or journalists

who would feed hin news stories from various points in

the world. This would have the advantage of being a

legitimate news-gathering service and at the same time

instructions from SRS,

set in motion the

opened a small office in Flushing,

not York, had prose erodentials mado and conducted

business

to 2 certain extent in the name uf this or-

ganization.

.. CIA Covert Source

will not be covered in this report.

Details of this

still

conducts certain business through

this

mechanism

but at the present, with the exception

CIA Covert Source

"CURRENT AND IMMEDIATE OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

is currently being used more or less

in line with the original idea of the project. His.

activities can be grouped as follows:

A.

Conducts special inquiries as required

by Chief, SRS.

B. Maintains close association with organi-

zations of the right, the extreme right

- 74-

RUM

SEP en 1975

CIA

SECRET

HW 50955 DocId:32203889

Page 62

---

## Page 63

SECRETI

:

of

and the numerous anti-Communist refugee

groups, mainly in New York City.

C.

Maintains personal

contact across the

board with the leaders and officers of

practically every known anti-Communist

group of significance in New York City

and many in other parts of the United

States •

He knows on a personal basis

nearly all of the outstanding anti-

communist writers, labor leaders, and

cIvic leaders in New York City.

D.

He has close working connections with,

and has wiltten a great deal tor, the

American Legion (using his own by-line).

E.

He has a great number of connections in

Congress and is known personally to

probably all of the Congressmen and

staff of the House Committee on Un-Ameri-

can Activities and the Senators and Staff

of the Senate. Internal Security Committee.

Ho maintains contiruous liaison with the

FBI and State and City Police in New York.

F.

He travels often, gives

innumerable

lectures and talks to all types of organi-

zations who wish to use the services of a

nighly protessional and talented anti-

Communist speaker.

G.

While not engaging in political activity

of any type on the local scene,

from time to time engages in the cormation

of committees for 'single-shot! organizations

aimed at harassment of the Soviets or local

Communists, particularly in New York City.

It was he who spearheaded the anti-

Khrushchev demonstrations in New York when

Khrushchev visited the United Nations in

19610

"LONG- RANGE TARGETS

"Much thought has gone into the ultimate disposition

and at present the basic thinking is as follows:

- 75-

SEP 30 1975

CIA

SFARFT'

HW 50955 DocId: 32203889

Page 63

---

## Page 64

SECRET

.i!:

A.

If

because of his talents

and capacity as a writer-journalist

and his considerable knowledge of

Soviet activity throughout the world,

is offered a highly remunerative job

job with a major publication, news

service or radio chain,

(ostensibly) will sever his connection

with us

and go on the payroll of the

organization chosen and will retain

our connection on a purely personal

basis.

B.

If

does not find this

situation attractive, he is to be

considered for conversion to staff

employee,

where his considerable

capabilities could be fully exploited..

"However.

these ideas are not yet at the point of develop-

ment and

is to continue to operate under the current

arrangement."

On 15 January 1963,

of

tiSe

wrote a further description

the Chief

serurity Research Stat

through

the Deputy Chief, Security Research Staff as follows:

"1. Attached herewith is a summary and a status

report on

which was requested by

Chief, SRS, several weeks ago.

after numerous conferences with

The report was prepared

The attachment referred to

'Contact List' was prepared upon our instructions

by

himself and no additions or corrections:

have been

made.

It is believed self-explanatory.

For matter of record, we wish to again em-

phasize

that certain items are omitted from the Con-

tact List and omitted generally from the report itself

то от 80018

for security reasons. These are as follows:

1)

Because of

various

activities, he has succeeded in effecting

several penetrations into Communist Party

organizations in New York City. Details

and names are omitted in this category.

NUM

6. SEP :30 1975

CIA

- 76-

SECRET

HN 50955 DocId: 32203889

Page 64

---

## Page 65

SECRETI

2)

contact with

Is not noted in the Contact

List,

reasons, although:

SRS ran

for

several

years, principally as a RECOVERY

used

patently i for no cocai

This contact is still being

ap-

and enjoys his

сотралу.

In addition to the above, Mr.

Jhas conducted

activities with

cognizance of SRS which are omitted

because of their sensitive nature.

Very briefly, these activities can be

summarized as follows:

a.

Scouting anti-CIA attacks in

the various media and organi-

zations to which

has

access.

.b.

C .

d.

Stopping same insofar as pos-

sible (as demonstrated in

activity).

Discovering and blocking anti-

CIA attacks or attacks on Agency

personnel 'on the Hill.'

Writing

or helping write pro-

CIA

articles in the various

media with which

has

contact.

"3.

We have made no recommendation to the basic

reports but it is the considarad opinion of the writers

of this report that

services are unique and

outstanding and that he should be retained for the pre-

sent in the same contractual way, with consideration

strongly urged to effecting a method whereby his salary

or reimbursement can be increased."

cur in Retention -

A hand written comment on the memo is as follows: "Con-

SRS) .

(who was the then Deputy Chief,

RUM

-77-

SEP 30 1975

CIA

SECRETI

HW 50955 DooId:32203889 Page 65

---

## Page 66

The contact list is set out as follows:

CIA Covert Source • Long-time SRS consultant whom

met through Mr. MCCord. CIA Covert Sourchas furnished an

entree for

_ to several individuals whom he other-

wise could not have seen.

CIA Covert Source

Former OSS agent and a current SRS souIce

whom

also met through Mr. McCord.

CIA Govert Source

During World War II he worked under

CIA Covert So. and

1n

recent years

source

has performed spe-

cific assignments for this office.

Introduced by Mr. McCord

to

CIA Covert

knows

as a fellow journalist.

Source

became aware of our use of him

when

articles on Comnunism were published in

the organ of the

American Legion.

- Another cousin of

Lee Femingion - Mi. Mecure used Me. Penningior do i con.

Ildentre1 source when the latter was a member vi ine micii.

canism Committee of the American Legion.

In turn, Mr.

Pennington

acted as liaison for Mr. McCord in funding

CIA Covert Source

These SRS sources used on

occasion

were introduced to

in connection with

a particular assignment of his.

CIA Covert Source

met this source of Mr. McCord's

in connection with his debriefing on his

Cuban

"sojourn."

- A long time friend of|

whose

hobby is photography, and

uses him in this capa-

city as the need arises.

- A long time friend and

insurance

agent."

4 1-4

• it

JM

SEP 30 1975

CIA

-78-

SEORETI

HH 50955 DocId: 32203889

Page 66

---

## Page 67

Debilit

(Apparently the summary and status report and Contact

_refers is the previous quoted memo

List

to which

of 9 January.)

During February and March 1963, SRS representatives met

for discussion of an objective to place a

skilled

and controlled source in the newspaper community in Washington,

D. C. who would have normal, routine, and ready access to the

Washington writing and radio colony:

The long range plan was

to have

move to Washington, and begin extensive writing

and lecturing to establish his prestige, and to slowly cur-

tail his other activities except for keeping his "excellent

Cuban and anti-Castro connections." The basic plan was

forwarded to the Director of Security by the Chief, SRS, for

consideration.

Tentative approval must have been received

inasmuch as on 26 March 1964,

requested the

assistance ofL

for information as to an assess-

ment of

work, and

the best method for establishing

prestige for a writer. L

was not identified by name.

In the interim, on

30 March 1964,

contacted

confirmed

writing talent, and

arranged

for an introduction of

General

Manager of Script (sic)

Howard.

contacted|

through

Tand they

arranged

for a personal meeting on 3 April 1964.

The pian, numerei, fell through since

never moved iu

Washington.

The plan, as follows, was presented in an undated mano-

randum form for the Director of Security:

"During the week of February_

and on 7 and

8 March 1963,

extensive discussions were held with

concerning matters which are set out in de-

following. C

is in agreement with

Chief/SRS and representatives of SRS that the pro-

posed plan which follows is the most sound, logical,

and secure method of obtaining the desired results:

"OBJECT - To place a skilled and controlled

source i the hare on viting an idio rant .

"PROBLEM - Source must have sufficient back-

ground and prestige to be accepted; he must have

FROM

÷0 1975

CIA

- 79-

EGRET'

HN 50955 DocId: 32203889

Page 67

---

## Page 68

SECREM

Str

income adequate to be in Washington (ostensibly

from his own efforts); he must have a valid

rea-

son for being in Washington; he must have high

capacity to produce; he must have a strong secu

rity sense; and he must have unquestioned loyalty.

"PROPOSED SOLUTION:

"a. SOURCE - Source to be used is

fits in nearly every particular to the elements set

out in the 'Problem'

above.

"b. METHOD OF SOLUTION:

111°

Source will begin at once to write

articles of importance, aiming at the placing

of these

articles in national

magazines, partie-

ularly magazines of the type of Life, Look,

Readers Digest, McCalls, Argosy, etc.

Source

has

numerous valid ideas for these articles and

already some interest has been shown in these

writings by Editors of the aforementioned type

magazines. Source will slowly divorce nimselt

from his

numerous activities in New York City,

maintaining only strong

Interest in his Cuber

connections.

Source will need approximately

three months to write these articles and to sell

them.

It is Source's

intention that these articles

carry his by-line, which is a basic element to

building prestige necessary for Source's future

activity.

Source is convinced he can handle this

successfully.

"Note: Heretofore Source has, under instruction,

Kept the use of his name to an absolute minimum for

obvious reasons. This requirement will now be

lifted.

"2.

At the same time Source will prepare

brochures for a lecture tour to be given by

Source during the Fall and early Winter, basically

on Cuba and Latin America.

Already Source has

drafted brochures and he will have professional

guidance in this matter.

Moore.

Source is an excellent lecturer. He

appeared before public forums many times an

1975

- 80-

CIA

SECRET'

NH 50955 DocId: 32203889

Page 68

---

## Page 69

CECRETI

has a high capacity in this area.

This

lecture tour, details of which will be set

out below,

is considered of key importance

to the

basic problem.

"3. Starting on or about the first, of

July, Source will make

an extensive tour of

Central and South America as a free lance re-

porter/writer/photographer, using his credentials

from the World News Analysis.

Entree basically

will be provided using numerous Cuban contacts

Source has obtained throughout Latin and South

American countries.

This trip will take probably

the most of July, August,

and part of September

and is regarded as essential for back up, for

prestige, for area knowledge, and for lecture

material.

"Note:

Source is known to have excellent

Cuban anti-Castro connections which will be sharpened

for use on this tour.

(Source has been in every

area of the world except Latin and South America.)

"c.

LECTURE TOUR: On or about the middle of

Supiombo Gouge mit Foturn to New York City

and prepare for the aforementioned lecture tour.

(It should be noted that there is no lecture

activity during the Summer months.) After pre-

paration, Source will proceed to make a lecture

tour covering all parts of the United States and

addressing all types of audiences. Source's

lecture tour will be run through the sponsorship of

the Babcock Agency of Virginia Beach, Virginia.

Agency, which handles among others the important

members of the National Review Staff, will be

handled on a direct commission basis taking a usual

ten percent fee.

In addition, through other organi-

zations Source willarrange lectures on his own which

is routine and

which will not conflict in any

way

with the Babcock Agency interest. Source antici-

pates completing the lecture

tour about the first

of the year 1964, at which time he will return to

New York City.

"Note: This lecture tour will serve a dual

purpose. It will build up the stature of the

: tROM

-81-

SEP 31. 1975

CIA

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 69

---

## Page 70

SLUNCH

Source (spreadhis name before the public),

and

it will give him the necessary oppor-

tunity to conduct

the following business:

As Source makes his lecture tour he will

attempt, by direct contact and through al-

ready established channels, to determine

whether or not he can set up for the basic

plan (a) a daily column, (b) a newsletter,

(c) a radio spot news broadcast.

The lecture

tour, of course, will place Source in given

areas and it would be completely logical for

him to talk to local editors and radio station

owners and managers

rend manasers white in

while in the area.

He will

be backed up by the fact that he is lecturing

and that he is a writer because of the pre-

viously mentioned articles.

"d.

Upon his return to New York City on or about

the first of the year 1964, Source will then be

able to make a definitive statement as to whether

or not he can conduct on a continuing basis and

on an economically sound basis (a) a daily column;

(b) a weekly newsletter; or (c) a radio newscast

bureau.

"Note: Source has evolved an idea of making

short newscasts which he believes can be peddled

on a spot basis to various local radio chains,

perhaps weekly. This idea, which is novel, ap-

pears to have a great deal

of merit.

ne.

After Source and SRS staff have had a chance

to analyze the total result?

a decision will then

be reached as to the feasibility of moving Source

to Washington.

If the results of the above set

out plans indicate that Source can logically appear

in Washington, he will then, for a period of about

30 to 60 days while operating either his column,

newsletter or radio broadcast bureau, shuttle back

and forth between New York and Washington obviously

seeking news.

He will let it be known to his friends

in the newspaper and writing business that the pres-

sure of his work is such that he will need some

• or and

office space in Washington at which time, more or

less on a temporary basis, he will secure in a

SEP 30 1975

CIA

- 82-

SECRETI

AN 50955 Doc1d:32203689 Page 70

---

## Page 71

SECRETI

downtown location a combination business office

and

living quarters, possibly at some such place

as

the 1028 Connecticut Avenue Building.

"E. After this test, Source will 'discover' that

"he can best operate out of Washington and he will

then establish an office and purchase a house or

other accommodations and bring his family to Wash-

ington.

"g. At this point Source will be operating on

his own as a news gatherer.

He will be established

as such and he will have access to the various

press conferences and other news making areas in

Washington and he will by necessity mingle with

the local newsmen and radio people.

"COMMENTS:

"The main question concerning the above plan was

whether or not

this could be accomplished in a shorter

time guaranteeing soundness,

10g1c,

and security.

Many

approaches were

studied and

for the reasons set out be.

low they were discarded

as not workable or unsound. De-

tails folion:

"1. Do we have a cover organization in

Washington that would be usable in connection

with the set out plan?

As far as we can now determine, there

is no suitable cover organization in Washington

that would cover the movement of the Source into

Washington, explain his presence there, and give

him a required freedom of movement in the area of

interest. We have no totally controlled newspaper

property, news bureau, or radio bureau in Washing-

ton, nor do we have any organization where Source

could be planted without creating a questionable

situation.

"2. Could we establish a 'grant' which

would do as a cover for bringing Source into

Washington?

"A very careful study of this problem in-

REULi FRONtes

that this is probably not logical.

SEP 30. 1913

CHA

- 83-

SECRETI

HW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 71

---

## Page 72

SECRETI

RECE

grant for research would be difficult as

source is not what could

be called

a re-

search type nor would he have freedom of

movement, and he would not have a reasonable

excuse for being in certain areas

and asking

certain questions of interest.

If a cover is

given, for instance for writing a book, it is

believed that this cover would be limited and

would preclude Source moving in certain areas

of interest, i.e., if he vere to write a book

Logically talk on the subject and intervien

persons knowledgeable, visit the Hill and some

of the press, but it seems doubtful to us that

he could to ust

he could convert this into matters of specific

Could our Source obtain a position

as full-time employee or perhaps stringer of

a going organization such as a Washington news

bureau or magazine of the type of 'Newsweek' or

"If we would place legitimarely or other-

wise

our source in such a position, this might

be

very limiting. In other words,

Source

could be confined to desk work and

have no ac-

cess at all to the actual operations of the

magazine or getting about Washington as a leg

man and reporter.

The chance also exists that

if he were able to obtain such an assignment,

because of his contacts he might be sent out of

town immediately.

Furthermore, source does not

necessarily have the background of taking a

position as editor or similar type with any

established news bureau or magazine. Further-

more, if through various Washington

connections

we were to approach an

establiched magazine and

ask for a 'roving' assignment of Source, it is

most likely that the magazine editor or owner

would turn down the idea automatically. Finally,

in this connection,

Source, himself, using his Cuban stories and

entree, sell himself as a stringer to some Wash-

ington news bureau or magazine, but probably only

Ring out of New York.

SEP 30 1975

C I Ai

-84-

SECRET!

AW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 72

---

## Page 73

SECRETI

"'4.

Could Source obtain employment on a

Congressional Committee on either side of the

Hill which would give him access to the areas

of interest?

"Source has exceptional connections on the

Hill and it is believed that through these con-

nections he might obtain some type of assign-

ment on a temporary basis or perhaps on a regular

basis.

However,

in the opinion of

the SRS staff

this is exceptionally hazardous

and if it became

known through

some misfortune, it would be of

enormous embarrassment to

Agency officials.

In

addition, Source might well obtain employment

with the

Congressional Committee,

but his work

might be too limiting to permit him to move about

and it might well preclude any opportunity he had

of making contact with the local press.

more, most committee assignments, investigative or

otherwise, generally follow a 9 to s routine on

the Hill and free lancing and freedom of movement

in Congressional Committees.

It is regarded as impossible to place Source on a

Congressional Committee if the employing Senator

euen in a most

nominal way of Source's mission.

"5.

Can the basic plan be telescoped on a

shorter basis?

"This is considered questionable by those

who have worked in this area for some time. If

we shorten the approach, we would obviously cut

down on our Source's background and prestige,

particularly in an area where stature is neces-

sary.

The articles using Source's by-line, if

they are successful, would be very important and

would serve as a basis for everything that would

follow. The South American trip is needed and

Source would have at the present time the best

possible chance for success based on his Cuban

contacts which are very strong at the present

time. A possibility also exists on such a trip

that Source might be fortunate enough to achieve

an important newspaper scoop which, of course,

would build prestige and quite conceivably place

REUe: / FROM

- 85-

SEP 30 1975.

CIA

SECRETI

NH 50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 73

---

## Page 74

SECRET

his name prominently in the public eye. The

lecture tour, of course, is essential not only

for prestige purposes, but to make the necessary

survey to determine the best possible media for

Source if and when he ultimately moves to Wash-

ington.

"The long range proposal set out above ap-

pears to be the most secure and most logical way

into the target. If it is necessary to go after

sible that a long range plan as set out above

might be used successfully in combination

with a

shorter more direct plan unless the shorter plan

would result in the blowing of the source pre-

maturely."

RECE

ROAD

SEP. =0 1975.

GIA.

- 86 -

SECRETI

NW 50955

DooId: 32203889

Page 74

---

## Page 75

On 1 October 1964,

• for the record reporting

wrote a memorandum

interview with

as

follows:

"On 30 September 1964,

the writer talked with

at the writer's apartment in Washington, D.C., for several

hours.

The conversation was general and part of it was

devoted to the discussion of financial matters, routine

conversation was

operational problems, and comments primarily on the local

New York scene.

"Of particular interest, however, in addition to the

above, were the following:

"(a)

- After discussing

connections

with

the writer directed that

interview

•ecent deaths of

as soon as nossible and discuss with

him the

and find out

what significance, if any, l

makes of these matters. SRS recently had information

that

had given

some information of intelligence

value to an Englisi writer and it was felt that it

7 connections

would be of interest to reopen

mic asked tn stress the

initia

paper.

"(3) Malcolm X - _

had previously interviewed

Maicolm X (Malcolm Little) before the former's recent

trip to Egypt and Africa and the Middle East..

The

writer requested

at his earliest possible con-

venience, to reinterview Malcolm x, particularly stress-

ing Malcolm X's views of individuals with whom he had

talked and any personalities of information which could

be of intelligence use.

It should be noted thatl

regards Malcolm X as probably the shrewdest of the

Negro leaders

and according tol

Malcolm x talks

freely to him because l

Tand Malcolm X have

an

understanding not to mince words or to be evasive

when they are talking.

"(c) Communist Youth Festival, Algiers, July (?) 1965 -

It should be noted that

has l

Ton Youth Festivals in Vienna and in

Helsinki previously, has disrupted their programs,

and

KLUEl

- ROM

- 87-

SEP :9 1975

CIA

SECRET!

NN 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 75

---

## Page 76

SECRETI

has to a considerable extent interfered with their

propaganda at these

festivals.

"Because

jis interested once again in divisive and dis

in 1965.

ruptive efforts against the Conmunists in Algiers

This time

states that it would be

dangerous because of

the attitude of the Moroccar

Government.

believes

that it would be best

to have a

small team of three to six trained in-

dividuals who

would proceed to the Youth Festival

at Algiers and who would be directed not at dis-

supting propaganda, but would that ate noell agace

gathering.

himself stated that he would again

volunteer to go to Algiers at this time, not ostensi-

bly connected with the aforementioned group

and only

as a free lance newspaperman.

pointed out that

undoubtedly he is not the

top

news authority in the

United States on Communist Party Youth Festivals.

states that he believes he can arrange financing

from private organizations and individuals for the

three to six individuals mentioned above and possibly

enough for travel by himself although this may not be

obtainable.

requests a study of this matter

and advice.

"(d) Bay of Pigs Book Review -

stated that he

cannot as yet explain why the National Review did not

publish his Bay of Pigs review,

but in fact paid him

for it. He is convinced that the review was withheld

because of some Agency influence. He submitted cor-

respondence from Frank

Meyer, one of the editors of

the National Review in this connection.

"(e) The Kennedy Book

commented that his friend

Dick Whalen,,

an outstanding young writer, has just com-

pleted a book on either Joseph B. Kennedy or the kennedy

family for which whalen

received

$100,000 in advance.

states that he

has helped Whalen

giving him advice and

assisting him editorially. l

write the book,

states that there are

two

items

of which he is

extremely

pleased of his work in connection with this book:

(1) He convinced Whalen to rewrite

the chapter on the Bay ot Pigs,

tocusing the blame from the CIA

to John F. Kennedy, and

ThOM

SEP 20 1975

CHA

SECRET!

NW 50955 DOCId: 32203889 Page 76

---

## Page 77

(2) He had deleted from the book an

entire

section which was devoted

to alleging that CIA was

respon-

sible for

the assassination of

Trujillo.

(3)

added that the Kennedy

book contained an index and

just before the book was to

,o to the printers, a proot-

reading of

the index showed

that there were numerous errors

in it.

ne Di

discovering this,

ublisher, uDOT

to correct the index, making

such annotations and

correc

tions

as necessary with highest

priority:

stated that

it took him 36 hours of con-

tinuous work to complete and

correct the index and for this

effort he has sent the publishers

a bill for $500.

"(f) Free China Weekly - Attached is a copy of the

Free China Weekly, dated 6 September 1964.

This publi-

cation is published for overseas distribution from

top of page 3 in which the Free China Weekly comments

on the

article written byl

in the Sep-

tember issue of the American Legion Magazine concerning

Tibet.

indicates that is good publicity since

the paper is sent all over the world."

RECEI

2.M

-89-

SEP = 1975

CIA

SECRETI

NH 50955

DocId: 32203889 Page 77

---

## Page 78

SECRETI

In December

1964, SRS prepared a blind memorandum out -

: lining the use of

to wit:

38 years of age, 1s a born and brec

New Yorker who comes from a theatrical family. He

came to our attention in 1955 when he was compiling

an index of the Daily Worker on a grant from the

Americanism Commission of American Legion.

grant was depleted before the index was completed;

SRS arranged to finance same, and eventually ob-

tained a copy of the index.

From 1957-1959,

was financed

a cleared

source from.both OS and

CI Staff funds.

contract does not require renewal

and can be terminated for cause or otherwise with

a maximum of 90 days notice.

SRS has no

agree.-

ments with

as to length uf contraci dnd ne

is not entitled to leave, retirement, or other

benefits normally due an

employee:

is paid from OS funds in the amount

of $10,500 base salary, plus a quarterly payment

of $131.25 in lieu of retirement and hospitaliza-

tion.

He is paid his local travel expenses (which

in the last fiscal year have been extremely low)

on a monthly voucher arrangement. All payments are

deposited through covert Agency channels into a

separate bank account for in New York.

"By virtue of his non-government activities in

obtaining photographic assignments and in assisting

other writers in research, in addition to occasional

sales of his articles directly to publishers,_

has so far been selt-tunding. He usually

requires a large out-lay of cash in addition to his

regular payments only if he is making an overseas trip.

Reu

/ ROM

SEP 20 1975

CIA

-90 -

SECRETI

AW 50955

DocId: 32203889

Page 78

---

## Page 79

SECRETI

is known to be a CIA employee by numerous

individuals,

lerbert komersten

stein a close triend National

Review;

and a

former Communist; Lee Pennington, Elsa Bernaut and

Hede Massing; J. B. Mattheis and his wife, former

Communists with whom

is friendly; and by

CIA Covert Source

He is suspected

of being a CIA employee by various Cuban refugees

with whom he became friendly following his incar-

ceration in a Cuban prison.

assignments given by SRs"sed as a cover for various

CIA Covert Source

the extent that WA press credentials were in their

possession until 1964 CIA Covert So. 15 known to have

discussed his Agency affiliation and correspondence

through

with at least several other persons

and furnished considerable written material relating

thereto to Congressman Daddario."

In February 1967, [

suggested that in light of the

then recent disclosures

about

CIA and youth activities, he be

actively

engaged

in many media activities designed in counter.

act the bau publicity.

'On 3 March 1967,

sent a note to

stating that

suggests he be

permitted to make overtures

• the media 7

his involvement in the various youth festivalsa

advised

"Nix - to stay quiet."

whether he concurred. The memo is merely signed:

"Noted" by

A blind memorandum dated 7 March 1967 contains the fol-

lowing:

"During

employment by OS/Security

Research Staff, he attended the 7th World Youth

Festival at Vienna in 1959, and the 8th at Helsinki

in 1962, following which he furnished detailed in-

formation to this Agency, as well as to FBI, HCUA,

etc.

He also made trips to Cuba in an attempt to

secure details relating to a matter of sensitive

interest to DDP, and on the second trip in 1960 was

confined for eight days by the Cuban authorities

. ROM

1975

-91-

CIA

AW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 79

---

## Page 80

SECRETI

RECD

before being expelled. He has

and several Iron Curtain countries,

visited the USSR,

the Far East,

Middle East and Africa, Central and South America,

Korea and the Republic of China.

His interviews

at the front in Vietnam with American enlisted men

during 1964 received considerable attention when

utilized by one of the major radio networks,

and

his articles regarding Vietnam and other projects

which appeared in a well-known magazine received

much

favorable comment."

ports relative to a possible trin

sometime before 24 January 190 Hanoi.

prepared two re-

were presented to

When the reports

1967.

designated "No" to certain

Chief, SRS, on 27 February

to wit:

proposals made by

a. The use of credentials from established media.

b.

Accompaniment of

(known to

by FBI controlled sources

in leftist circles.

On 7 April 1967,

i confirmed

ISRS, WroteL

oral instructions

given

Jin Washington on 29 March 1967.

structions were as follows:

in-

Limit your activities to:

1. Spotting

contacts

Z. lo assessing them, but under

no circumstances be guilty of

any recruitment.

On 26 April 1967, L

formalized to the C/SRS a

memorandum of discussion with

_ captioned [

affiliation with the Support Our Boys in Vietnam parade,

New York City, 13 May 1967," to wit:

"1. In accordance with your instruc-

tions,

I advised Wiley that he had received

your permission to become active with the

above named support Committee.

He was ad-

vised,

that under no circumstances, was he

to indicate that he was in any way associated

willy received any guidance from this source.

- 92-

SEP 90 1975

CIA

SECRETA

NW 50955 DooId:32203889 Page 80

---

## Page 81

SECKEl

"2.

advised he had been

appointed Press Office for the Support

Committee

and had as his first act in

this capacity obtained from the New

York City Police Department a permit

to parade on Fifth Avenue on 13 May.

At the present time, he is attempting

to locate a colored

Congressional Medal

of Honor Vietnam veteran to appear and

speak on the day in question.

At the

moment, he is attempting to reach Gen.

Westmorland to obtain a statement from

him regarding the uplift of morale such

a parade will have on the fighting forces

in Vietnam.

"3. Today

is also attempting

o have an audience with George meany,

President,

AtL, in order to enlist his

assistance

in obtaining participants

for the

parade. L

in addition,

is diso

going

to request nr. noany

to issue a directive to all AFL-CIO

unions to send participants and back

the parade to its fullest extent.

According tol

he has already

seen Gleason.

President of ILA and

ILA has promised its full cooperation.

"4.

The Support Committee has

already lined up all of the veteran

organizations in and around New York

City who have promised that they will

turn out their personnel in full.

said that he has been in touch with the

New York State National Guard, and they

are going to furnish skydivers and a

fly-over as an added attraction for

the parade.

"5. Tomorrow, 27 April 1967,

said that he has an

appointment to

see

Cardinal Spellman to enlist his aid in

FROM

- 93-

SEP 89 1975

CIA

SECRET.

NN 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 81

---

## Page 82

SECRETI

sending to the parade parochial school

children and

accommodated.

states

pocates that near aro

as many bands as can be

In addition to the above,

foreign newspapers alerted and has re-

ceived some assurance from various

foreign groups that they would like

representation in the parade.

Finally,

said that if

he had difficulty with the military in

New York City with respect to his re-

quest for a Negro Medal of Honor winner

to appear for the parade, he may ask

assistance from us.

In summary, he

said that if this

thing bombs,

New Left, Including Martin Luther King,

Stokley Carmichael, McKissic, et all will never

let the country forget it."

When the C/SRS,

_- adjacent to the last paragraph - commented,

I reviewed this memo?no.

He should deal with Army.

There is only unü süch (oslored

Medal of Honor winner), a medical corps specialist."

On 1 May 1967,

wrote a formal memo of a dis-

cussion with

that date regarding "A report from

regarding the

forthcoming parade in New York on 13 May."

The body of the memorandum reflects among other matters that

claimed he had phone contact with John Roach regarding

possible White House support for the parade. John Roach was

an assistant to Harry McPherson of the White House Staff.

"Roach has promised the Committee substantial support."

A brief memorandum by l

I dated 3 May 1967, con-

tains as an attachment an article

from the

3 May 1967 edi-

tion of the New York Times concerning the "Support Our Boys

in Vietnam Parade.

." The C/SRS brought the article to the

attention of the Director of Security, Howard J.

who penned the word "Encouraging" on the transmittal slip

also wrote a briet memo with an editorial New York

Times

article attachment, dated 5 May 1967.

: NOM

SEP 30 1975

CIA

- 94-

SECRET

HW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 82

---

## Page 83

SECRET

Circa

2 June 1967,

prepared a report which he

captioned, "Basic Theme

of Letter to Ex-Presidents" out-

lining an

effort to further the "Parade" concept.

On 15 June 1967,

to wit:

formalized information from

"1. Success has gone to

head.

Since he and Gilmer, the Fire Department

Captain in New York

put on a successful

SuD:

port the Boys in Vietnam Parade,"

now wants to stage parades in 120

cities throughout the United States.

"2. Much of his ambition stems

from a remark that Tina is

reported to

have made to him and to

which he agrees.

said that Tina said he could make

a million dollars in public relations

work if he promoted something in which

he was really interested. ^

stated

to me

that this is

true because he has

not had his heart in his rocont work

for us.

He said now

he plans to

start

selling America.

"3.

He is so carried away by his

exuberance that he requested permission

to use up to and including $1,000 of our

funds to establish an office, print up

letterheads and use our funds

to make

long distance telephone calls to the

various 120 cities.

He plans to call

his office, The Committee for Responsi-

ble Patriotism. From what I can gather,

he has no support from any source but on

one to General Eisenhower and one to former

a intent to prepare to

President Harry S. Truman,

which I have

attached for your information. He re-

quested

that

through our liaison with

General Eisenhower

and Harry S. Truman

we approach them

and solicit their sup-

port in his behalf.

HLu....

SEP::: 1975

CIA

- 95-

SECRET'

WN 30933 Doold: 32203689 Page 03

---

## Page 84

SECRETI

"4. I explained to

that his

interest was well motivated but under no

circumstances would we permit an expendi-

ture of any funds in this regard. I also

told him it would be extremely awkward for

us to approach General Eisenhower or Mr.

Truman in his behalf.

"5. There is a strong possibility

he may call you thinking that you may give

nim authority for tinancial assistance.

couragel

, particularly

when it's going to cost us money."

At the conclusion of the last paragraph, C/SRS, l

, noted,

"Yes. We cannot spend our funds for

internal propaganda purposes."

There is

a record of a 2 January 1970 phone conversa-

tion with

Nam activity.

I concernind had been

involvement in pro-Viet

said had been coordinated at a high

lovel with the

rentagon and ho has their oK,"

regarding

prisoner of war activity.

The writer noted,

with

relayed tol

'Discussion

I suggested that during next

meeting with |

he be told that while we do no (sic)

disapproval of his actions in this respect, we cannot

approve, sponsor or imply approval in any way.

said

'OK tell him.'"

This record is quoted as follows:

called collect

and said his organization's campaign

to get humane treatment for prisoners

of Hanoi (i.e., signatures to petitions)

was going very well and that they had

'tens of thousands' of signatures with

coordinated at a high level with the

Pentagon and he has their OK.

Through

the Pentagon, they have been in touch

with the wives. However, they plan

to

FROM

-96 -

SEP 30 1975

CIA

SECRETI

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 84

---

## Page 85

SECKEN

phase out of this activity at the end

of the month. They'll turn it over to

the wives.

They are running out of

money and have enough to last until

end of month.

They'll put this activity

on shelf for a few months. They have had

'unbelievable backing' from #2 man in

New York State. Wants to hold off a

week or so on status report on this.

on status re

In coordination with Pentagon, they

merely advise of what they plan and

elt Pentagon to object in writing if

they do. Discussion with

relavec

I suggested that during next

meeting with

he be told that

while we do no disapprove of his

actions in this respect, we can

not approve, sponsor,

or imply

approval in any way.

OK tell him.!!

said

A blind menuiandum regarding

was preparer ly

CIA Covert Employee: SRS, on 14 April 1970,

being directed to

who noted his concurrence. In total, the

memorandum states:

"Subject

telephoned today

after having talked with Mr. McCord and

advised that he had unfortunately lost

the race to be a Congressional candidate

from his district.

I extended sympathy

but personally felt this resolved a pro-

blem

that could have resulted in his

termination should he have been elected

a candidate.

"Subject asked whether there were

any questions concerning his income

tax form,

and I advised him,

after con-

sulting with the Head of the

Covert Tax

Comnittee, that there did not appear to

be any significant questions. Subject

NUM

-97-

SEP 20 1975

CIA

SECRETI

AW 50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 85

---

## Page 86

informed me

that he would then go

head and however, our theo 18.

•, ot the

did say that they

had some questions concerning Sub-

ject's expenses under Schedule C.

Specifically, whether Subject's

trunk line to New York City, cable

address, and trips to Washington

had been reimbursed by the deeney.

I informed

that we had

no record of any such reimburse-

ment and that these expenses were

assumed by Subject, solely.

"It was indicated by Subject

that it was hopeful his throat ail-

ment would soon clear which would

make it possible for him to visit

Washington within the next week or

two.

RECEI

SEP 20 1915

CIA

"It would seein prudent is me,

prior to subject's pending visit,

that we prepare something akin to

all agreement or letter of instruc-

tion which would clearly indicate

to Subject that assignments to him,

whether oral or not, would eventually

be followed up by written confirma-

tion of such assignment.

Such a

letter of understanding or agree-

ment would, it seems to me, serve

to protect Subject as well

as the

Agency in the event of any further

problem or incident which might

involve Subject.

For example,

nany of Subject's activities may

be construed as domestic political

action and as such could be

• identi-

fied as an Agency contractual em-

ployee.

From time to time,

as you

Subject has telephonically

FaMed us of his personal activities

- 98-

SECRET

RN 50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 86

---

## Page 87

SECRETI

and may assume that such advice and

acknowledgement on our part would be

Agency approval for his activities.

While such is not the case, it is

believed that we should formalize

this part of our contract with him

so that he knows that his personal

activities, regardless of

area, are

not construed as an extension of

Agency plans or programs.

At the

same time, Subject can be assured

of our continuing interest in him

as a "standby" asset.

"Should you have any questions

concerning this subject, I would be

pleased to discuss them

further."

Attached to this blind memorandum is a Memorandum of

Understanding, dated 29

April

signed by

with an

indicated copy given to

stating:

"In order to

avoid

any possible

misunderstanding in the future and in

recognition of my many personal

and

official activities, I agree that any

assignments given to me by my associates

in Washington will be made a matter of

written record. As security permits and

will initial same showing the date the

assignment was received.

"My acknowledgement of this arrange-

ment does not in any way change or abro-

gate the nature of my association with

my employer. I understand that this

procedure is solely for the purpose

of providing some evidence and a record

of those assignments I have officially

received."

DENTED FROM

RE-

30 1915

CIA

-99-

SECRET'

AW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 87

---

## Page 88

• McCord, JI.,

From 1956 to 1962,

case officer was James li.

with alternate contact

FrOm 1962

alternate

to 1966, his case officer was

During 1966-1970, he was in con-

tact with

From 1970

to January 1974

his case ofter Covere pantau

During most of the period from 1957 to June 1973,

Twas infrequently in contact with the chief, Security

Research Staff,

:31975

G1A

-100 -

SECRETI

Nt 70953

Do01d: 32203889

Page

88

---

## Page 89

SECRETI

COVER

James E. McCord reported in a memo dated 1 May 1956

to the Chief

External Branch/SRS,

that he approached Lee

Pennington of the Americanism Comnittee of the American

Legion to determine whether ha. Penninoton

"1. Should questions arise from acquaintances

or friends as to where the index cards for

the 1933-1936 are located, that [

tell them that their typing is being

handled

by the

"2.

That in

work for the coming year in

continuing the index of the Daily Worker,

that he can advise his friends and acquaint-

ances that the financing and continuation of

inis work is boing hardled bu the

Should any-

one press him for further details.

he can

merely refer them to

who will

furnish them with

the same story."

On 23 August 1958,

wrote a report entitled

"The Problem of a 'Cover' in

which he claims his original

cover given him has worn thin and for all purposes is not

existent.

cites examples to back up his contention

and makes

several

suggestions for improvement of cover or

the establishment of a new one.

Apparently this latter memorandum initiated some action

by SRS officers who were handling

since in the fall of

1958. Records indicate that l

Thad begun to build cover

12nd

he

RECENT FROM

SEP 29 1975

CIA

-101-

SECRETI

AW 50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 89

---

## Page 90

SECRETI

In an effort to provide

with a more substan-

tial mechanism for operations to increase his journalistic

reputation, it was decided that he would set unlar

would have the advantage of being

a legitimate

service and at the

same time possibly being later used as an

information-gathering organization for intelligence purposes.

Acting under instructions,

in 1959 or 1960, founded

opened an office in Flushing, New York,

nad press credentials made and conducted business to a cer

tain extent in the name of this organization.

pretty much maintained this cover ever since.

RECE!

SEP 20 1975

CIA

- 102-

-FORETI

HW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page

90

---

## Page 91

SECRET

PERSONAL ACTIVITY

Since 1966

specific assignments for OS have

been at a minimum,

whereas his personal activities have

increased. Much of his personal activity has been or

might be construed as having been domestic political action.

In 1970, his name was placed

as a candidate for U.S. Repre-

sentative from the 15th district of New Jersey,

but he

failed to

receive the nomination.

However, in

dia campain as an Independent candidate for the lis. Senate

in New Jersey

he received approximately one per cent of the

allots cast in the election won by Senator Clifford P. Case.

He has been active in and frequently the prime mover

in a number of organizations of conservative or right-wing

persuasion.

As such, he has earned considerable reputation

as a capable coordinator and organizer through actions in

support of "pro-American" and conservative causes.

parades, receptions, petition gathering, demonstrations

and other publicity

Licipaion have run the gamut of support tor the Repunic:

of Vietnam, U.S. war policies, strong national defense pos-

ture, the Nationalist Chinese, U.S. prisoners in foreign

lands and anti-bussing for integration.

Among these organizations with which he has been pro-

minently identified are:

Parents

and Taxpayers: an organization opposing bussing

for integration. He was

doing public relations for

this group

as early as 1964 and has been periodically involved in this

activity with this and other organizations to date.

these organizations are

Young Americans for Freedom: a conservatively oriented

youth group.

Committee to Unite America: as a member in 1971, he

waS

active in its efforts aimed

at lowering the level

of

public hostility toward government policies.

REGET

../:

-103-

SEP 80 1975

CIA

SECRET:

NH 50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 91

---

## Page 92

SECRETI

National Committee for Responsible Patriotism (NCRP):

as its Executive Director and one of its foundens in 1967,

he has been its principal member and has been involved

with managing its office,

raising funds, and charting its

activities.

Operating principally with

volunteers and

donated funds, Wiley, who has occasionally received some

private remuneration

for his services, has

organized

numerous parades, receptions, motorcades, banquets and

programs.

He has

arranged publicity and made a number

a medties he has had close contact with labor leaders,

In connection with these and other

activities

the military and the White House.

In April 1973, Wiley

received

signed commendation from President Nixon in

recognition of his efforts, which states:

"Dear

"The overwhelming

success of the recent

New York parade in honor of our Vietnam

veterans was truly heartening, and I

know that the greatest share of the

crodit for this is due to the remark

able efforts of you and your organiza-

tion.

tribute that was paid to

our Nation's servicemen is an inspiring

reminder of the pride all Americans feel

tor those who gave so much in the cause

of freedom.

I am sure I speak for citi-

zens throughout the country in expres-

sing deep appreciation for your unsel-

fish dedication of

time and talent to

this patriotic project.

"With my gratitude and very best wishes,

Sincerely,

nichard Nixon"

Among activities which the NCRP organized are:

Free USS Pueblo Sailors

Free American Citizen George Pellezo from Cuban

Prison

-ROM

CSEP 30 1975

-104-

C.I. A

SECRET

NH 50955

DocId: 32203889

Page 92

---

## Page 93

SCUALI

Honor America Week (1969)

Support Our POW's and MIA's (1970)

Operation Gratitude for Firemen and Law Enforcement

Forces (1970)

Welcome Home with Honor Day (1973)

The NCRP is currently engaged in the initial

stages

of planning for a possible

reception and program in the

near future for the recently exiled Soviet author, Alexander

1. Solzhenitsyn.

RECED FROM

SEP 30 1975

CIA

-105-

SECRET

HW 50955 DocId:32203889

Page 93

---

## Page 94

SEGRET:

TERMINATION

During the course of the reorganization of the Office

of Security, it was decided that the Security Research

Staff would

be abolished.

This decision led to the prepa-

ration of a memorandum for the Director of Security from

the Chief, Security Staff, dated 1 June 1973, captioned

"Request for Director of Security Assessment Regarding

Continuance of

Functions and Possible Replacement."

The

last

paragraph of this

memorandum stated:

"For immediate planning purposes, to

fulfill the early deadline already established,

it would be appreciated if you would review the

attached outlines of existing functions

and in-

dicate your desires regarding

the function (con-

continue with low priority, discontinue)

and where you wish any retained functions to be

placed

in the reoroanization structure.

In the

¡annon instance, l have

attempted to indicate

the more likeiy

opiions

for this to facilitaie

your assessment."

On 4 June 1973, the Director of Security indicated

that "Special Access

Sources"'

should

continue on a lor priority and be transferred to the Opera-

tional Support Branch.

CIA Cover

On 8 June 1973,

Employee

(SRS), in a memorandum

to the Chairman, Clearance Division Implementation Committee,

OS/PSI, reorganization subject "Research Branch, Clearance

Implementation" noted that

Division, 0s/DD/Ps had been approved to be continued,

Access Source _

he con sherance

but on

I a low priority basis and transferred to the Opera-

tional Support Branch.

Shortly after the implementation of the rcorganization

of the Office of Security on 1 August 1973,

Chief. Research Branch, verbarance Devised

and reviewed

, Clcarance Division, the dispositior

of certain SRS functions

still in the possession

of the

/ROM

SEP 30 1975

CIA

106-

SECRETI

50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 94

---

## Page 95

SECRET

: Research Branch, but recommended and approved for transfer

to other components of the Office of Security. Among those

items discussed was "Special Access Source"

MessrS.

agreed that

was not worth

the money spent, performed little or no useful service for

the Office of Security,

and in fact had done little or

nothing to justify his keep.

It was further

agreed that

would discuss

and make known to the Deputy

Director of Security (PS1),

the agreed assess-

ment of

next informed

that a memorandum

should be prepared reviewing

the

case, making recom-

mendations as to disposition. A memorandum was then pre-

pared by

_ of the Research Branch, dated 18 Sep-

tember 1973, which recalled the history of l

associa-

tion with the Office of Security with a recommendation for

termination.

The only disagreement was as to timing.

recommended 30 June 1974;l

1 February

1974.

The Deputy Director of Security (PST) agreed with

the 1 February 1974 termination date and suggested using

thre

said prosedure as in the Pennington case.

On 25 October 1973,

both of the Research Branch, met

at the Key Bridge

Marriot Motel, Arlington, Virginia, to ettect his termina-

tion.

was most unhappy with the proceeding although

claiming to understand that budget problems and curtail-

ment of domestic activities lead to his separation.

He

acknowledged that written notice of his termination by his

signature; however, he appended that the notice was "signed

the reservation that the terms will be appealed," and

stating he would

seek redress

either with the Director of

Central Intelligence or contacts on Capitol Hill.

was contacted twice more on 6 November 1973,

and on 12 February

1974, both times in New York City, by

Deputy Director of Security (P&M) and

the former meeting,

explained to

that CIA is no longer

politely

engaged in matters

in which he had been assisting and that

there was, there-

fore, no further need for his services.

indicated that the Office of Security might be able to

assist financially in a limited sense beyond the 31 January

termination date, but that would be the limit of any help.

-107-

SEP 30 1975

CIA

SECRETI

NH 50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 95

---

## Page 96

On the latter occasion,

informed

_that he had been awarded a termination bonus of

sovered

which figure,

in essence, represented his salary

forward from

31 January through 30 June 1974.

expressiny dissatistaction with

concluded the interview by reminding

that his termination was

effective, previously executed

Secrecy Agreement was still binding

and

would be available to him for additional

assistance if

required. It was definitely made clear to

that

the

next action is to come from

him.

An "information only" memorandum from the Director

of Security to

cerning

the Directoi of Central Intelligence con-

was sent on

25 February 1974.

NEGE

Vil.

-108-

SEP 30 1975

CIA

SEGRET

NH 50955

DocId: 32203889

Page 96

---

## Page 97

CONTACTS AND RELATIONSHIPS

WITH

JANES MCCORD, LEE PENNINGION, DONALD SWEANY AND HOWARD HUNT

:

JAMES MCCORD

James McCord was the first representative of the Office

of Security to have contact with

and was undoubtedly

the driving force behind the Agency's funding of the Daily

Worker index.

McCord was

primary case officer from

1956 through January 1962 and during this period, guided and

was more or less responsible for

direction and con-

The nature of McCord's contacts with

Jafter 1962

are not exactly known since McCord left SRS in January 1962

for other positions within the Office of Security.

The files

do, however, contain the followine information which indicate

some contact between McCord and

after 1969. The exact

nature of these contacts is not definitely known, especially

those in May - June 1969; however, the presumption is that

Tat the direction of McCord may have reported on and

photographed anti-Viet Nam War demonstrations in Washington,

during that period and gave the

Mccora who retired iron CIA on 31 August 1970.

results of his ok

On 30 May 1969,

_Of SRS recorded, "Jim

McCord notified

me today

that

ton,

would arrive in Washing-

D. C., tonight for a meeting with McCord concerning

some Mayday Project that has been assigned to

On 5 June 1969, L

recorded,

telephoned

from New York City on 4 June 1969 to request that I turn

over

to Jim NcCord the light meter which we drew from

Logistics for his use last month in connection with his

photography work.

neet him in New York City over the week-end.

cared i do to bet a is rue even ta planes tea

rotte and intrust

the meter and it would be available in a package for trans-

mittal tol

It someone would come by and pick it up.

As of June 1969, no one had called or inquired further

into the matter.

REGEIVE?

SEP 30 1975

CIA

SECRET

AW 50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 97

---

## Page 98

recorded that Jim McCord

advised him on that date

that he, Mccord, had visited

which had been

"many years ago" byl

wenera tay to had the toy loving name da the backa

Vianamin Belitsky, Fred Borodin, Michel Reschal,

Deak Zoltan.

Memorandun, dated 12 March 1970 by

• Employee states:

Cora and at the end of their discussa telephone sin

Mccord, had the call transierred to our number.

Memorandum,

dated 6 April 1970 by CIA Cover

employee to Chief, SRS States:

vouchers and an accounting from

"I received the attached

on Saturday.

I note

anong other things, he spent over $120.00 on

film.

Should this part of the accounting be referred to McCord

or do we accept it as presented?

It is not clear that it

meets Agency requirements

as all expenses are not matched

up by necessary receipts.

memanumi, vaicu in sprit 1970, capiloned

states:

"Subject telephoned today after having

talked with Mr. McCord and advised that he had unfortunately

lost the race to be a Congressional candidate from his

district."

McCord may also have been in contact with

during

1970-71 concerning the monitoring of a book to be written

by CIA Covert Agent

an ex-Communist and CIA source, who had

involved in certain operations for this Agency (not

In Mexico. The Agency was rather

concerned whether

mentioned in the fall corefuld expose his working for cIA

and assigned|

excerpts from the

Age help edit the book. The following

file tend to support the above contention:

Report

A memorandum. dated 30 June 1970, captioned "Contact

_" states:

that, along with in decord

the continue then sure teet Agent

and would brief

as to keep him content until he,

refers

returns frohis European trip." (This very probably

to

CIA Covert Agent

RECENCO R

SEP 90 1075

CIA

110

CEODET

NH 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 98

---

## Page 99

SECRET:

memorandum, dated 13 January 1971 captioned

states:

has stated that he now

to leave in some malential (Mexico) that earlier

McCord suggested not be included." (Apparently material

for book Agentoveras writing withl

assistance.)

A memorandum, dated 5 February 1971, captioned

(records problem

reported having

with CIA Covert Agent : states:

thinks that perhaps

Jim McCord could

still has high

believes he,l

, may be able to settle the problem,

but if not, thinks we ought to have McCord talk to

outlines

If we bring MeCord back in, he ought to discuss the case

before he has contact with CIA Covert Agent

Anotner memorangun, dated 12 February 1971 reflects:

called McCord.

Details of discussion unknown; however,

sathor that lin impressed

witn

fact that any mention of

the company or personnel by

in his book would be at

least potentially

damaging to activities that are of in-

terest currently."

n a memoranaun

dated 19 February 1971, it is

•eflected that l

I "had brief telephone conversation

_this p.m.

He understood fromCIA Covert that

watA coyera conversed with Jin secora recent seput did not

know the essence of the conversation nor any future plans

for contact between them.

Advised

that it was our

Enderstanding leavens A end contact had and the cification

of Agency people out of the book's chapter on his 'Mexican

and that apparently CIA

Covert Agent

agreed."

In a memorandum, dated 23 February 1971, captioned

tinues:

the problem with

reportedly

said McCord had in effect okayed what

wanted

to include in his chapter on Mexican Operations"

ROM

SEP 19 1975

CIA

111

HW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 99

---

## Page 100

CIA Coverttolal

Agent

that McCord is out of it anyway and

cinct erother person is supposed to get in touch vith

Agent

on handling the Mexican material.

will call NeCord tonight for a bricfing

Afterwards,

stall for a

A

nemorandum, dated 9 March 1971, captioned

suggests

I intended to contact McCord regarding

thovert Agentatter in the near future.

versation withl

A memorandum, dated 29 December 1971 records a con-

concluding with the

statement:

repeated his holiday

greetings and was a little concerned

apparently that he hadn't had a card

from McCord - wondered

if anything had happened to him, etc."

On 28 June 1972,

ses and remarked that ie,

I telephoned

of

was really surprised at

the depth the FBI must be covering this, i.e:, latergate,

as he had already been approached and interviewed by a

couple of FBI agents based on several long distance calls

i.e., McCord, had made to him..

further stated

occasionally solicited intormation irom

told them,

EbI, Tim was an

nia Friona and

just as

the Bureau did.

On 9 April 1973,l

called

form him that his wife,

to in-

had taken ner lite.

suggested that Ruth and JimleCord Lee Pennington,

be advised.

Called Lee Pennington who in turn would advise Ruth

McCord

on the afternoon of 9 April.

LEE PENNINGTON

The exact degree of

knowledge of and associa-

tate late intone How it is con that

from records

Pennington probably knew

as early as 1954 fron

Pennington's work with the Americanism Committee of the

American Legion and

index work on behalf of that

organization..

has claimed on several occasions to

$

1:71

SEP 30 1975

CIA

112

SECRET

AN 50955 Doc1d: 32203889 Page 100

---

## Page 101

SECRET

have a close association with Pennington without elaborating

as to specific details.

For example:

prepared

a report which states as follows ren dealing with

Don (Sweaney) and Lee (Pennington), both of whom know of my

connection,

I avoid any talk of my

company activities.

At one time, both knew some of my work because we received

cooperation

from them on certain projects.

However, since

Don went to his present job there has been little contact.

I talk to Don as I do to everyone else. I ignore any

questions or statements with double meanings, surreptitious

lances, etc.

This is because of to reasons - need-to-know

rule and Don

is seldom out of earshot of fellow workers.

NO

one overhearing us will learn anything I don't want them to

know.

"Since the recent exposure of company activities is

the chief topic of discussion, and especially since I am

considered by many as an

"expert'

on one of the projects,

there is little way of avoiding the subject without arousing

suspicion.

I have always taken the same stand, that of a

critic - but

with qualifications • regarding the area of

my knowledge.

Under the circumstances, it would be quite

impossible

to take any other position.

"During my discussion with Don, the only company

business that was mentioned was the project with which

everyone knows I am familiar.

that I could

It is, therefore

obvious

not have said what was reported.

would

suggest that someone other than the original source talk

to Don. I would also urge that both Don and lee be reminded

not to

mention, under any circumstances, their knowledge of

me."

DONALD SWEANY

furly known from thel

knowledge of and association with Sweany is

_files, nor is there any

reference to any such association in the Office of Security

file on Donald Sweany.

American

Legion, that they probably have known each other

RECEN. FROM

SEP 30 1975

GIA

113

SPOREI

NH 50955 DocId: 32203889

Page 101

---

## Page 102

SECKEli

since 1954. Other than

comment concerning Penning-

ton and Sweany, previously mentioned, there is

nothing else

from

concerning Sweany.

HOWARD HUNT

There is nothing in the

files to indicate any

contact or association with Howard Hunt.

Sometime prior to

24 August 1970 and probably between the

fall of 1969 and

ipr11 1970

Give Us This Day Provided SRS with a manuscript entitled

" which was circulating amongst some New

York publishers none of whom wished to publish it because

of its controversial nature, i.e. Bay of Pigs operation.

The writer of the manuscript was later identified as Howard

eat goe as Ronard

Hunt.

The exact details concerning this incident are not

available in the

files.

Further on this theme, on 19 June 1973,

called

of SRS to say that he had in his

hands a copy

of Howard Hunt's manuscript "Give Us This Day."

was

advised

that he had probably forgotten but that we had

had

access to it several years ago

when Hunt submitted it to

a difieieni publishei.

roportedly had made it

available

at that time).

said that he believed that

this publisher was going to take advantage of the recent

publicity (meaning

Watergate apparently) and, of course,

bring it out under Hunt's true name.

was told that

we (SRS) had no interest in his copy and that he could

return it to the contact who made it available to him.

There was no further discussion on the matter.

in the

He above is the extent of references to Howard Hunt

SEP 00 1975

CIA

114

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32203889

Page 102

---

