# 157-10004-10274

## Page 1

157-10004-10274

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10274

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO : DIRECTOR OF SECURITY

TITLE :

ROBERT A. MAHEU AND ASSOCIATES (RAMA)

DATE : 01/08/71

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

RAMA

ROBERT A. MAHEU AND ASSOCIATES

MAHEU, ROBERT

NON-OFFICIAL COVER

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/01/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

DocId:32202163

Page 1

Date: 09/02/94

Page: 1

a to a dan and coo

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

---

## Page 2

....l

SECRET

18 January 1971

MEMORANDUN FOR: Director of Security

SUBIBCT:

Robert A. Maheu and Associates (RAMA)

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE rfidE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIMIEATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

K2423198

NH 50955

1. In line with your request, there is listed below CCS use for

operational purposes of Rabert A. Maheu and Assoclates:

a. Varlous officers of the CCS bave been in contact with

Robert A. Maheu (RAM) since 1951. The reasons for these

meetings were at all times to determine the feasibility of using

Maheu's firm for cos oficial cover purposes.

APPROVEO FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM

AS SANITIED aT Y

Ci)(B)

b. Actual cover use of RAMA was for:

(1) CIA employee

From june 1956 0o August 1915

1950

apparently for a TDY to India, Thailand and Malaysia. No

otber Information le immediately arailable.

(2)

CIA employee

as employee in Mabeu's

Washington Office' from September 19t$ to June 1966.

(3)

CIA employee

a. As Maheu Assoclates representative in Ecuadore

Quito from 1 August 1968 thru 31 December 1970. CIA employee is

now in Washington, D.C. after having sent a letter of resigradon

effective 31 December 1970 to RAM's office in Las Vegas, in-

cluding a check (cashier's) -- equivalent to $10, 000 In Botadoslang

currency - which Maheu had deposited some years ago in connection

with an aborted cable TV venture.

01498

b. Initially, CIA employee was to go to Caracas, Venezuela

on a lateral transfer as tentadvely agreed with Peter Maheu, the

designated contact poini for CLA. In early Devember after the

first round of publicity on Robert Makeu's co! It bartles, Peter Nabeu

was Informed that CIA employee would noi return to the WH area, and we

considered his transfer to Caracag cancelled.

DocId

: 32202163 Page 2

---

