# 157-10011-10085

## Page 1

157-10011-10085]

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10085

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : UNKNOWN

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

MEETING WITH DCS HEADQUARTERS' OFFICERS

DATE : 07/09/70

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :

MEETING WITH DCS HEADQUARTERS' OFFICERS

STETSON, SHIRLEY; WILSON, JOHN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

SSCI Box 292, Folder 12

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 50955

DocId: 32203853

Page 1

Date: 10/06/93

Page: 1

ERI

---

## Page 2

SSCI Box #292, Folder 12

9 July 1970

SUBJECT: Meeting with DCS Headquartoss' Officers

Shi-ley STETSO!, for at leest ton yoars the hackhone of OCS/OSS and

reassigned to DCS/ashingion, and Join VILSDli, recently designated as

replacement in

visited C3.50 on 9 July 1970 and were briefed

1100 :o 1200 hours. This was follwed by luncht l

y CIA officer

and the writer fron

CIA officer

¡could not accompany) 'and

discussions until 1315 hors.

2. The following highlights are made a matter of recood:

291111-9641

recently

157-10011-10085

Record Number

a, Reports fron

are still beingreceives

by DiS but, as is the custom, they are being sent.

to CIA officerin GI/SPG initially,

the CIA officer

isxis rather than to CI/Si. It is believed that.

has bean absent for about tud

months and this may account for the fact that CI/SO

...has not been receiving the

material.

b. Upon the departure of STETSDil for lashinaton and of a CIA officer for

will assume responsibility for Case 52722.

has just completed his

program and befnre that spent a "ear in DCS on the Soviet Block Desk where he

handled nuclear matters.

He is well-regarded.

Co John HILSIN

is

forman

CT viro has spent two years in DCS Head quarters.

opines that he could be slated for the job of

in five to ten years when

He previously

served as

He stems from

retires. WILSON is

and

the li:

replace ent in

tle dras na:

as tias

23

Э

-ted with ra..

ne sens to save his greatest enthusiesm in discus:::=÷

Ho: true i: is that there is no such thing as a

Is i result of his your or two

of

NW 50955

VO UBJECTION FO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

MAR. 94

DocId: 3220385/

---

