# 157-10004-10050_1

## Page 1

157-10004-10050

Date: 05/11/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10050

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FB1

FROM : HOOVER, J. EDGAR

TO : DIRECTOR, CIA

TITLE :

ROLANDO L. CUBELA Y SECADES

DATE : 06/27/62

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :

CUBELA Y SECADES, ROLANDO L.

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

PARIS TRIP

AMLASH

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/12/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

335-2

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

DocId: 32201939

Page 1

---

## Page 2

0SIMX3800

NATIONAL

SECURITY

INFORMATION

• Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal

Sanctions

NEC- 6

(NI) 105-77567

Date:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

SECRET

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

REVIEWED BY FBLJFK TASK FORCE

AS SANITIZED 6441327/1/94

ON 4/194 das

1

- Liaison

Mr. Mullins

Li

RELEASE.IN FULL

1 RELEASE IN PART

BY LIAISON

U

TOTAL DENIAL

к(н)

• June 27,

1962

To :

Director

• Central Intelligence Agency

OFFICER

Attention: Deputy Directors. flons

Eron:

Subjuct:

John Edgar disover, Direstor

ROLANDO LO CUEDLA Y SECADES

INTERNAL SECURITY • CULA

715/94

Classued by 2803 RAFel

Dealassify on 040S. (Jfk)

Referènce Is nade to your letter dated April 12,

1961, concerning the subject, your reference CucI-3/764,709.

Enclosed is a copy of a memorandum dated June 13,

1962, at lilomi, Florida, which contains Information conceznina

the

possible defection of Cubela from the Guban Governsent.

as a long-time contact of a icpresentative of your Agency.

SOURCE a m3 advised our illani Office that Cubela plans to zu to

296L6 2N0E

sauce and a and nea plans to to to tron on Sure 22.

Coz, and stated that, 1f ho could be of any service to the

nited States Governnent or assist Cubela, he would arrence to

• 27 Paras shenever recessary, le sntd he could be contacteà

u curbedthronine.

SUN IDENTIFIES SOURCE

111211C10rSQUACE

noted that he had been in close contact

who founcily was assigned to

che

ind, aftcr

vane

vIch

Bel:0n8 --

Moh: -

Collahan .

ontod

NOns

Malmne.

Sullivan

Tavel .-

Trutens

Tre. 551992 5.

Hulmas ..

-2 - Paris (Enclosures 2) (Sec Note, Page 3).

SEE NOTE, presi

through for reviow)

• outre

AW 50955

DocId: 32201939

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

TD

Director

Contral Intelligence Agency

was transfurred to Lexico

was in contact with

at the Enbassy in Havana.

.. also mentioned that he was

in lexico when Cubela tallico

wins there. In speaking of

his desire to cooperate,

SOURCE y emphasized that he does not

me to think he is doin?

something behind

back::

Dur Toni Orsice advised: SouRces that the data jurished

by him rould've made available to the proper nited States

agency and that his coments concernin

nayle be rclayed

to that agency.

SOURCE

noted that he was returning to New Yor':

City fron iioni and said that, in the event he reccived cny

additional infornation concerning Cubela, he would forward it

to the Fil.

He furnished our tiami Difice a business card

in 5 to a gut.

ENTIFIES

DURCE

Meen

SOURCE

basked whom he should contact if he reccived

emergersy information while in paris, and our lilani office.

which lad had no previous contact with me informed himsonce

that he should go to the United States imbassy there and speai

to someone an the legal Attache's Office.

SOURCE

Since it appears that

irmatis of operational

interest to your lgency, ve are taling no stops to direct his

activitics. If he does volunteer information concernira Cubcla

in the future, you will be pronatly advised. We are lastricte

our representative in laris that,

in the event.

as contacts

his office, he should

→ to your reprosonative? Sum

• 2 ..

REC-

MAY

SECRET

1.

NW 50955 DocId: 32201939 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Director

Centrnl Intelligence Agency

18 per.

SOURCE

CDA

1B per

If you have not alreair done so, you may desirc

o establish contret with Cret and furrich him specific

Instructions as to how this hattor should be handled.

Enclosure

ATTENTIO:

LEGAL ATTÄCIES, PARIS AND LONDON, AND SAC, MILIT

Single copies of Mant airtel and memorandum 6/18/62

are enclosed jor Legal Attaches, London and Paris.

Paris, should refer:

13 to

the appropriate Central Intsiligence Agency official at the

S

Embassy if te

does

contact your office.

SOURCE

NOTE:

Classified "Secret

18 per CIP

Cubela has been President of the Cuban University

Student Federation (FEU) for many years and was also a leader of

the Revolutionary Directorate, a group which fought with Castro

to overthrow ,batista. For several months we have been recciving

reports that Cubela is fed up with Castro and wants to dofcet

Since the data developed by Miani indicates

defection, we are withholding dissemination

the

this time.

= 3 -

IB perchar

25 1976

SECRET -

iLi

t to

HN 50955 DocId:32201939 Page 1

---

