157-10005-10202|

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

157-10005-10202

Date:10/01/93
Page:1

ORIGINATOR
FROM
TO

TITLE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA
KNOCHE, E.H.
BELIN, DAVID W.

MEMORANDUM/ATTAC! MENT

DATE

PAGES :

SUBJECTS
RE: PLANS OF CUBAN

DOCUMENT TYPE

06/04/75
7

EXILES TO ASSASSINATE SELECTED CUBAN LDRS

CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS
BOX 436-7

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
T

REFERRED

Pp

10/01/93

HW 50955 Docld:32202392

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Page 1


sei : : H fee
REIGN DISSEM/CONTRO™ “ED DISSE§M/NO DISSE ABROA “BACKGROUND USE ONLY
bes me, CE RAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY |

Seti a os a El 37s 737s

Bib me

-20 June 1964

Stee AYE -
4 IORANDUM FOR: The Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT ~~ 2" Plans of Cuban Exiles to Assassinate

elected Cuban Government Leaders .

“2. The following report Was compiled from informa~
“t4on obtained by Agency officers from persons who were
‘parties to the actions described. Agency officers made
clear to each of the sources/that the United States a
Government would not, under any circumstances, condone- .
the planned actions. Presumably the sources of the
report, in submitting this information, were motivated :
din part by the belief that by disclosing the information
they would obtain immunity against legal action should. ~
they succeed in implementing the plan. ia :

@ % 2,..8 Cuban exile was approached on 2 March 1964 by
an acquaintance who wished to discuss a plan, which was
Still in the embryonic state, to assassinate Fidel Castro.
The acquaintance was described as a businessman and a :
o owns at least one ship fwitich, hls under

|, and who also.has a legally sanctioned
mn distributing and placing slot machines in-- ..
gambling houses. The involvement of the acqmaintance in-
the slot-machine business brings the man in contact with
elements in the underworld, primarily through his partner
who is a former police officer from St. Louis and through
whom there is a tie-in with é€lements of "Cosa Nostra.”
The "Cosa Nostra" elements are alleged to have numerous -
contacts Still available to them in Cuba, an@ they have
‘offered to assassinate Castro for $150,000; mo advance
funds were requested. If the mission cannot be accom-. ~
plished, or if the plan is unsuccessful, an amount. not_._—
to exceed $10,000 would be paid for the travel and living
expenses of five men involved in the mission. The Cuban
exile commented that he believed he had been approached
with this plan because of his family’s wealth; he told

DREIGN DISSEM/CONSROLLED DISSE}

HW 50955 DocId:32202392 Page 2
