157-10005-10190

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

SSCIA
157-10005-10190

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :

FROM :
TO:

TITLE :

TRANSCRIPT

DATE :
PAGES :

SUBJECTS

04/03/75
22

‘A TRANSCRIPT CONCERNING FIDEL CASTRO

STURGIS TESTIMONY CONCERNING CASTRO

@ SELECTED PAGES FROM

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :
OPENING CRITERIA :

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
:T

: REFERRED C | A

COMMENTS :

BOX 436-14

10/01/93 p .

Date:10/01/93

Page:1

HW 50955 DocId:32202380

Page 1


TOP SECRET a9
i oe
Wait just a minute. I am sorry. I could be wrong
) £ there. I said the wrong thing.
5 If I am going after the Bay of Pigs invasion, if
’ this did happen, as far as the date is concerned, after the
5 Bay of Pigs invasion, Edwardo did quit the operation and go
6 on some other assignment or what have you. So that means
cA he-was no longer in the Miami area. So this part I-had to
8 get a new case officer.
9 MR. OLSEN: Edwardo left Miami before the Bay
ne of Pigs, didn't he?
it MR. STURGIS: He left after -- well, I don't know
, 12 I am sorry. Because there is a possibility that he may have
@ sd been either in Miami or he may have been in the. Headquarters
14 in Washington. But I can't pin it down because I don't know
15 exactly where he was at.
16 MR. OLSEN: Did he ever make contacts with this man's
17 case officer? CBAGR
18 MR. STURGIS: No, sir, because it had to be one of
19 two people, it either had to be Edwardo, whom I had never met,
20 or it had to be possibly faimPKnowleéS, after Edwardo left.
21 MR. OLSEN: Dia fia @@f take his place, then?
22 MR. STURGIS: I believe so, I believe
25 did take his place as this party's case officer.
@ 24 MR. OLSEN: And then, you did not actually have any
25° i : : PROPERTY OF z
contact with his case officer? THE WHITE HOUSE 0 FICE

em OR OF Ee om Em OS

HW 50955 DocId:32202380 Page 2

