# 157-10004-10276

## Page 1

157-10004-10276

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

IGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER

.: 157-10004-10276

RECORDS SERIES :

LETTER

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : CENTRAL CONTRACTING OFFICER

TO : MAHEU, ROBERT

TITLE :

CONTRACT BETWEEN ROBERT MAHEU AND CIA

DATE : 08/01/68

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

MAHEU, ROBERT

ROBERT MAHEU AND ASSOCIATES (RAMA)

CONTRACT WITH CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/01/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

DocId: 32202165

Page 1

Date: 09/02/94

Page: 1

CIA HAS NO ORICOTION TO

DECLASSIRIO 7IOM AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

---

## Page 2

EE. ESPRENCE

4G5ie

SEGRET

MI. Robert A. Maheu, President

Robert A. Maheu ext Associates

Dear Mr. Maheu:

This document is to confirin discussions held between yourself

representing Robert A. Maheu eat Associates, hereinafter referred to

as the "Firm" and a ClA employee

representing the Central

Intelligence Agency. If it conforms to your understanding of the agree -

ment reached herein, kindly so acknowledge by signing in the space

provided below.

1. You have agreed to name a CLA employee

•• as your

representative in Ecuado It is further agreed that all costs oi this

arrangement to the Firm including but not necessarily limited to the

following, are to be reimbursed by CIA:

7(a) A basic salary of $900 per month.

(b)

Costs incurred during the training of the CIA employee

as well as travel costs for transporting him and his

dependents and household effects from the United States

tolEcuacor and return.

(c) Representational costs incurred by the CLA employee

including items such as entertainment of clients,

secretarial and office help, office rental and office

expenses except that prior CIA approval is required

for the hiring of employees and rental of office space.

CIA HAS NO DELECTION TO

DECLASS PIOATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

(d) Costs incurred at the direction and for the sole

benefit of the Firm as opposed to those incurred for

2|2398

the establishment and maintenance of the cover are

rat to be reimbursed

:2 .

CIA will fulfill its reimbursement obligations by advancing

funds,

tricugh a mutually agreed upon and secure channel, to the Firm

in response to quarterly billings submitted by the Firm. Such billings

will indicate the general nature, kind and amount of reimbursable

expenditures.

01473

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

•CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

AS SANITIZED 27-T-GY Lu

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE OFF

50955

DocId: 32202165

Page 2

---

