# 157-10014-10081

## Page 1

157-10014-10081

Pate :

08/04/95

Page

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER

:: 157-10014-10081

RECORDS SERIES

: HEARINGS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 10-H-13

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

SSCIA

GOODWIN, RICHARD

TITLE

DATE: 07/10/75

PAGES

: 61

SUBJECTS

: ASSASSINATION, TRUJILLO

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

CIA

EISENHOWER, DWIGHT

DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT

CLASSIFICATION

:UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS: OPEN IN FULL

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

05/12/98

OPENING CRITERIA

:

COMMENTS : BoX

3

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

50955

DooId: 32423469

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Gooduri

Report if I'roceedings

2n-3/2172

ar.

EC

Hearing held before

Benato Beleot Connitten to Study Governmatal

parations With Respect to Intelligance Activities

0 :9

TOP SECRET

to'

Thr Knitrd Btaten Bruate

STORMATION

IT® Subject

1008)

R478

Thuraday, July 10, 1975

Washington, D. C

Stenotype Iape and Waste turned ove:

o che Committee for destruction

WARD & PAUL

410 FIRST STREET, S. E.

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003

(808) 844-8000

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 3

MONTE LAS

MADES # 5217

n n

#30 0 81 540909,56. Histomaton, D.6.70007

2

3

6

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

24

24

25

TOR SECRET

SONIENTS

TESTIMONY OF

Richard M. Goodwin.

PAGE

5

FXHIBITS

EXHIBIT

No. 1

No. ?

No.

]-A

Nº.

3-B

FOR IDPNTIFICATION

10

11

21

23

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 4

TONNA LANE HARD

00.0 0

HARE A PAIR

Apron, D.C. 86008

3

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

24

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Thursday, July 10, 1975

United States Senate,

Select Committee to Study Governmental

Oparationg with Respect to

Governmental Activitles,

washington, p. C.

The Committaa Met, pursuant to notice, at 5:02 o'clock

p.m. In Room S-120, The Capitol, the Honorable Frank Church

(Chairman of the Committaal presiding,

Present: Senators Church (presidiny), Hart of Michigan,

Mondale, Huddleston, Hart of Colorado, Tower, Baker and

Schwelkar.

Also presents William Millar, Staff Director, Frederick

A. O. Schwarz, JI., Chief Counsal, Curtis R. Smothers, Minority

Counsel, Charles Rirbow, Charles Lombard, Michael J. Madigan,

David Aaron, J00 Donnin, Elizabeth Culbroth

and Patrick Shed,

Professional Staff Members.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 5

TOP SECREI

at 57, in

1

2

C.

astungiDa, D.E. 80008

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

24.

24

2•1

25

PROSEERIMAS

The Chalrman. He will cone back into order.

Mr. Goodwin, would you please take the oath?

Do you swear that all the testimony you are about to vivo

in this proceeding will ba the truth, the whole truth, and

nothing but the truth, so halp you God?

MI. Goodwin. I do.

The Chalrman. I am given to underatand that there has

baen some problen in connection with your appearance here today

and that there are some notes that you have that you feal you

need for purposes of your testimony which you have not brounht

with you, In that the case?

MI. Goodwin. Yes, I think they might be helpful.

Thay

have baon in storage for several years and I just had no access

to tham. I have to go got them out of the storage. They were

notes • my files and averything have been in storage for

several Years. I'va had no acceng to them. And they consist

of the files that I brought from the Whita House with me.

The Chairman. Have you been intervlowed by membors of thel

staff and shown certain documonts that the staff bolioves will

be pertinent to your testimony?

Mr, Goodwin. I have been shown documonts connected with

the Dominican Republic and the assassination of Trujillo today.

The Chairman. And do you belleve that you are prapared

today to give us tostimony calating to Me. Trujillo or do you

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 6

• 0.K. 89098

NH

1

2

3

5

6

7

10

11

12

13

14

. 15

16

17

18

19

20

.21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

ballave that you need to or ought to review thome notes befora

you give any

tastimony?

MI. Goodwin. Mall, I'm of course fully preparad to testi!

to the boat of my racollaction to any matter, and I think

probably in the case of the Dominican Republie, the documenta

have been adequate. I think thera's a good chance that 901no

through the tiles may very woll add something to my recollectio

of Cuba and Castro.

The Chairman. Hell I will have thia suggention to make.

No will tato your testimony on the trujillo mattar today, and

then = how long will 1t take you to dot your allos and rovl.w

than and come back fully prepared to give un your testimony on:

tha other issues?

Mr. Goodwin. Hell, lt will take a day or two. It 1s

possible 1 41l1 not ba able to got access to tham until Monday

morning. It's kind of like trying to get to Pocatello

and find them in a varahousa, because I'm up in Rumford, Maine.

But I am sure that 1t would not take mora than a day or two.

The Chairman. So that 18 the Committee were to give you

that opportunity, would you than get those files, revlew them.

and respond to the request by the Committed that you appear th

first of next week to tostity?

Me. Goodwin. If that is your wish, certainly,

The Chairman. Wa are most anxious to complete the record

and your testimony is necessary, and it would cortainly

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 7

these

$

MER, D.C POOSS

3

6

10

11]

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TORLECRET

¡cooperate.

Me. Goodwin.''I would be glad to.

The Chairnar."

i. All right.

With that understanding then, Mr. Schware, are you

propared to proceed with the questioning on Trujillo?

Mr. Schwars. I'm sorry Mr. Goodwin that we didn'e hava

• chance to get together. I thought de ware going to havo a

chance to do that on Tuesday, and I have not had a chance to

apeat to you but I do know soma of the materlal, and parhaps

we can work on the material.

Refore we do so, could you state your full name and you:

address pleasa?

TOP SECRET

!

---

## Page 8

RS CRED

raT

FE, 7#0 do

3

4

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TESTIMONY OF RICHARD MO! COOLIN

Mr. Goodwin, Richard M. Goodwin, 1516 J2nd Streat, N.W..

Hashington, D.C.

Mr. Schwars. And au a master of courso, ve tell all of

our witnesses what they no doubt know, that they have their

right to counsal, and you know that, and if you want to stop

to obtain counsel, you know that you can do that?

Me. Goodwin. I already have too many lawyara.

Mr. Schwarz. And you know what your constitutional

righta are?

Mr. Goodwin. Mopefully.

Mr. Schwars. Now, what connection did you have with the

Dominican Rapublie In the winter and apring of 19617

ME. Goodwin. I came into the White House an Mosistant

Spocial Counsel to the Preaident, having worked On Latin

Amorican altairs policy statamente in the procooding campadan.

I becane involved in Latin Amarica. And from that parlod until

I lolt to go to the State Departmant, I vas Involved on a

dally basis with Prasident Konnedy and his activitlas'in Latir.

Amardea which Included what was happening in the Dominican

Republio in terma that I draftad contingency plans, 1 prepared

cablos that went to Me. Daarborn loeussing on the areas that

you are Interested in,. and I was with him ovary day on somethin

connected with Latin America.

Mr. Schwarz. Without your turning to the documentary

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 9

410 $ 7748 57-992, 3.k.

капаудоа, D. С. 20009

1

2

3

5

6

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

%. 1

22

2]

24

25

TOP SECRET

matorial, would

you racount for the Coumittee your understandin

of what the United States govarnment polley toward the Dominir.

Republie was in the winter and spring of 61 and what action:

vero taken to implement that polley.

Mr. Goodwin. Mall, that polley was a continuation of thr

policy established by President Eisenhower when he, in

accordance with the vote of the OAS, voted to sever - decide.!

to sever diplomatic and commerolal relations with tha Dominica:

Ropubile and the aitdation which you know arone was procipitated

by the attampted assassination of Prasident Detancourt by the

President of the Dominican Republic.

So that from that point on when we came in, the feeling

was, first of all, of course that Trujillo was even more

at odds with the philosophy of the Alliance for Progress tha:

had bean and beyond that; having cut off diplomatie and othri

relations, that Trujillo'e time:sh office was probably.

numbered. The prineipal support of the regime in that docare

which was often in great domestic difficulty had beer the

concept of Amarican support, it strengthened Trujillo agains:

his opposition.

At that point our policy became one of trying to antleli

at least, the fall of trujillo. Of course the Castro thing

was vory much in averybody's mind and the principal concern

the President, the ond thing ho didn'e want was for trufillo

to go and a Communist leadar to come in. - So I think the polle:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 10

C

ТАДО

0990т. П.€. 20007

1

2

3

4

7

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

SECRET

was to kanp up our economie and diplomatic pressure to hope

that when trujillo went, howaver he went, whether violently or

peacefully or died a natural death that the succession would

be a moderate, democratie group friendly to the interests of

the United States in the Caribbean and therefore try to keep in

touch with and help out and keep communications open with

the potential successor groups, and lt vas vary hard to

pinpoint.

Mr. Schwars. What stapa did you take during the period

of time you vere involved, or prior thereto, if you know

about it, in order to assiat one or more of the disaldent

groups?

Mr. Goodwin. Well, we did all sorts - everything from

polley statements, the und of USIA, the ude of economic

pressure, to maintain our network of contacts with exile

groups prinespally'in New York and elsewhore. A cartain number

of limited covert operations, some transfer of arms. Dearborn

of course was one of the principals, his principal instruction

was to try to keap all channels of communication open, he was

zealous in thia bacause he dialiked Trujillo intensely himsel!

and falt that he ought to be alliad with these other aroups.

And I read through the sort of overall planning papers, and i

think thay falrly reflace that range of operations.

None of them were terribly effactive.

Mi. Schwarz. In connection with the transfer of arma,

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 11

C

а гала 20087 8700-86

1

2

4

5

6

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'7

18

19

20

21

28.

24

25

TOP SECRET!

B

what, to your understanding, was the time at which authorizatio:

was provided to transfer armo?

Mr. Goodwin. January 12, 1960, under President Elsenhower.

Mr. Schwarz. And that was at a moating of the Special

Group?

MI. Goodwin. Hell, I

don't know because they didn't let

me In that week, but thare was an NSC action manoranum of

some kind which just set forth the authorization. I don't really

know the procedure.

Mr. Schwarz. Whon were the arms passed?

Mr. Goodwin. I don't know. I became aware of the eransler

of arms. The transfer I think you're thinking of is the

transfer of a couple of carbines and .38 pistols. Miter the

transfer had boon made,: I the message of communication that

came to us from the Dominican Republic along with the request

for the transfer of machine guns which ware to ba used in an

effort to kill Trujillo, the smaller guns vere to be given as

Daarborn told me later in conversation after the assagsination

because these people felt their own lives were in dangar,

especially if they enharked on anything as claky as tryina to

kill Trujillo, and they wanted some sell-defense weapons, and

thay were given to them for self-dofense and then they made a

roquest that they wanted weapons to try an assassination, they

wantad a machine gun.

Assassinating Trujillo, of couras, a lot of people had

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 12

arm,

1

2

3

5

6

8

10

11

12

14

15

16

17

1&

19

21:

2%

+S24 72 7557

TOP SECRET

tried and most of

cham, they were all dead. It was a very

risky business. It's not the kind of thing they would want to

try with a -38.

And I think also, I mean nobody, I think -- aa I say, ve

had no particular anticipation that this or any other group

would be successful in something that nobody had bean able to

do for thirty yoars, but at any rato, those vera the backstops.

Mr. Schwarz. Did you know how the arma were passed into

the Dominican Republic, as opposed to passed to the disaldents?

Mr. Goodwin. No, I only know what Dearborn later told me

In conversation. I only have this fifteen year old mamory

on my part that he gave tham to them in the consulate. I may

havo known at one time how he got them. There ware a lot of

gune in the Dominican Republic.

'24

Mr. Schwarz. Did you know

Mr. Goodwin. I did not know that, but & wouldn't be

surprised, weapons of that size.

Mr. Schwarz. Now again, when were the arms passed, as

far as you know?

Mr. Goodwin. Woll I don't know, I don't have the exact -

the message is in here. I think It was altor Presidant

Kennedy took office.

My knowledge of 1t was on the basis of the massago --

The Chalrman. Is there someone that can halp Mr. Goodwin

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 13

TANTS A DALE

810 8 0091 5110007.

washington, D 6. 20003

JORSECRET

1

4

6

7

8

with tha documento?

Mr. Schwars, Let's mark that an Goodwin Exhibit No. 1.

• document consisting - dated May 1J, 1961 and headed

Subject, CIA Covert Activitles, Dominican Rapublic, stating:'

"Attached la the spacial briefing paper of CIA covert activitie:

directed against the Dominican Republie which in requested by

MI. Richard Goodwin at the White House," and attaching a

noveral page document with that hoading and that date.

Mr. Goodwin. This in the paper that they sent no and

that's whare, I guess, I found out about it.

(The documant referred

to was marked Goodwin

Exhible No. 1 for

Identification.)

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

201

2)

2%.

22

24

25

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 14

1

2

3

5

6

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

2:

27

24

24

2!,

TORS CRET

11

Mr. Schwarg: Now that indicates, does it not, that the

waapons were passed sometime after lata January, you can tell

that?

Mr. Goodwin. Yeah.

NE. Schwarz. All right.

You can tell that by looking at the heading 2 which

Indicates when the requast for the passage of the arme was

made.

ME. Goodwin. Yos, 1t says in late January. Of course

they weren't authorized until the 12th.

Mr. Schwarz. But they ware passod, in any event, after

the Xennady Administration took office.

Mr. Goodwin. Yes.

Mr. Schwarz. Now you told President Johnson, Vice

President Johnson, - We will mark this Goodwin Exhibit 2.

« memorandun which, Senators, 1e at Tab ll, the book which 1a

marked book 2 of 2 and dated June 1, 1961.

(The document referred to

was marked Goodwin

Exhibit No. 2 for

identification.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 15

con.

ci

Stronge

$H. 1499099907. 0.6.20008

1

2

4

5

7

8

10

11

12.

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

88.

2:.

24

25

12

Mr. Schwars. Hould you read into the record, Mr. Goodwin,

this 1a a memorandum for the files dated June 1, 1961, subject

Report of Point Raised at meeting with Vice President.

Hould you read into the record the second paragraph?

MI. Godwin. "At one point during the meeting, the Vice

President asked about the three carbines which the Agancy had

turned ovar to the dissidents, specifically anked about the

date of delivery. Mr. Goodwin made a statement to the affect

that thia was done under the previous Administration, 1.0.,

prior to Tanuary 20, 1961, pursuant to a decialon of the

Special Group."

Can you toll me 1f chia his memo I'm reading? I'd like

to know.

M5. Schwarz. Hall, there are some initials at the botton

of the page, do they help you decida whose meno 1t 187

Mr. Dannin. I bollave we vare told by secretary of state

Rusk that 1t'= Under Secretary of State Johnson. That's what

the U stands for.

Ms. Schware. Did you make that statement, Mr. Goodwin?

Mr. Goodwin. I don't remember making it. It 18 an

inaccurate statement, and there was a clear record that it

would be inaccurate in documents that I had already seen.

I thought that I wouldn'e have made de. I had no purpose in

making it. And this 1a

The Chairmas. What is the inaccuracy of this?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 16

1

2

3

6

7

tr.

...

€.

rampion. D.E. PO003

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

2U

21

2%

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

Hernans

•13

ME, Goodwin. The delivery 'of the arma was not made prior

to January 20th, The authorization, Senator, vas pilor to

January 20th.

Senator Schwalker. Nas when, again? Mas what date?

Mr. Goodwin. The anthorization was the 12th of January.

Sanator Schwalker. What yaar?

MI. Goodwin. 1961.

Sanator Schwolker. And delivery was when?

Mr. Schwarz. Sometime subsequent to Jañuary 20th.

Mr, Goodwin. Wall, now that I look at chio, all lt says

was lato January.

The Chairman. This de Juna Ist, Chle l8 datoil June Ist,

and you are reported to have said, "At one point during the

meating the Vice President asked about the three carbines

which the Agency had turned over to the digsidents and

spocifically asked about the date of delivery. Mr. Goodwin

made the statament to the affect that this was done under

the pravious Adminiatration, d.e, prior to January 20th,

1961, pursuant to a decision of the Special Group."

Netually the delivery took place after January 20th 1961.

1r. Goodwin. Well that was my first impression on readina

that, but I notice that all it says was late January, Senator,

so I suppose the 20th or the 19th in somebody's mind could be

lato January, I mean, I don't sually remembar.

Mr. Schwarz. Bu: Mr. Goodwin, you know, independent o

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 17

2989

don.

1+1t

TOR SECRE

14

1

2

3

6

7

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

1₴

19

the document which we marked as Exhibit 1, in fact the arme

ware dalivared aftar January 20th.

Mr. Goodwin. I may have known. All I • my first

knowledge was thie document, the timetable that I requester

which simply informed me that the delivery of carbines had heen

made in late January, I don't know any more than that.

Mr. Schwara. All right.

Mr. Goodwin, Thie lu my source of knowledga. I may hava

Inarnod more subsequent to lt if Dearborn pinpointod it.

Mr. Schwarz. In addlelon with dealing with Dearborn, verg

you dealing with anybody from the CIA on this?

Mr. coodwin. Woll, thoy were alwaya at the meetingn.

MI. Schwarz. Who do you ramambar from the CIA?

ME. Goodwin. Tracy Barnes -- I can't be sure who all was

there. At the meeting with the Vice President, I'm sure some-

body like Bissoll, at least, would have been there, But I'm

sure you must have a list.

Mr. Schwarz. Now I would like you to tastify in answer to

a serios of questions as to what you ware or were not told.

24

Now, were you told that the arma which had been deliverer

¿: had boon delivered to persona who said at timen thes choy

wanter to ust than for personal delanss, but who said more

24.

2.

often that they wanted to use them for assassination purposes?

Mr. Goodwin. I was givan to understand

and told

24

25

spacifically and 'it's reflacted in the documenta, that they

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 18

1

3

C

C

196

A10 5 UxI StroN: SE, 1692919704, D.G.20003

TOP SECRET

13

10

11

12

!;

1?

14

15

16

17

1t

19

20

*1

2.%.

2:

24

21

wanted . In order to carry out an assassination, they thought

they noeded transfer of additional weapons, of submachine guns.

I don't remember any indication that anyone thought that a

carbine or a .38 was adequate to mount an effort of that kind

againat Trujillo. Aut they, of courso, were interested in

assassinating Trujillo, Involved as they vare in a very life

and death struggle, thelr families were being alaughtered .

Mr. Schwarz. The racord demonatrates that the Agency was

informed in April, prior to the memorandum that vent to you

which we marked an Exhibit 1, that the dissidents intended to

undertako the assassination offort and to do so within the

means that they eventually actually did, by blockading the

road and shooting Mr. Trujillo as he was visiting his mistress.

And that they intended to do it whether or not they received

the machine guns, but they would like the machine guns, Just

to halp.

Now, were you informed by the Agency or by anyone else

that the dissidenta intended to accomplish the sasassination

with the small arms whother or not they got the machines?

Mr. Goodwin. I was informed that both this and other

groups intanded and wanted to agsassinate Trujillo, We got

reports of assassinationa about to occur almost every two or

three weaka in the White louse. There la a long gap between

wanting to kill Trujillo and being able to do lt, and - but.

at all times, continually, up into May, there was the very

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 19

0н94

2

3

5

6

7

8

10

11

12.

. 13

24

15

16,

17

19

20

2%

2::

24

25

TO SECRET

16

Insistent request for additional arma that would make the

plot feasible and at the specifle request of Preaident Kennedy,

those arms were denied and

Mr. Schwarz. I'm going to come to that. I want to know

what you were informed about the intentione of the digaidents.

You didn't answer my quastion. You said you vere fraquently

informed about assassination plots all over the world, but

specifically with respect to the Dominican Republic, were you

or Mare you not informed that the Agency had been told by the

dissidents that they intended to accomplish the assassination

of Fidel Castro -- excuse me, of Trujillo --whether or not

they received the machine quna?

Mr. Goodwin. I was told that afterwarda by Dearborn. !

wasn't told that particularly at the time, although that

wouldn't surprise me if they said that. By the Agency, you

mean Daarborn, or --

Mr. Schwarz. I mean the Central Intelligence Agency.

Mr. Goodwin. They communicated directly with the Agency

in this instanco?

Mr. Schwarz. Thare were Agency people in the Republic.

Did you know there were Agency paople in the Republie?

Mr. coodwin. I knew they were in and out.

Mr. Schwarz. In and out?

Mr. Goodwin, They ran soma guns in at one time, as I

ramember, and thay also were anganed in the collection of

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 20

1

6

7

8

10

11

12.

1]

14

15

16

17

NO 8 CRY 510041.9 8

, Mashonette, D.C.59003

19

2%

* 4

21.

TOP SECRET

7 10h 759

17

intelligence about dissident groups.

Mr. Schwarz. Man It your impression that Dearborn was

in charge of the Dominican Republie, or the Agency personnel

was in charge of the Dominiean Republie?

Ms. Goodwin. My impression at the time was that the

inatructions given to Dearborn ware carried out, and all

Instructiong from the President went to Duarborn.

Mr. Schware. Apart from intructions from the President.

was it your impression that the Agency was in charge of the

Dominican Republic or that Dearborn was in charge of the

Dominican Republie.

Mr. roodwin. My imprassion was that Dearborn was in charne

of the Dominican Republic, subject to very close supervision

fron Hashington.

The Chairman. Dearborn was the -

Mr. Goodwin. He was the Consul. He had no formal

relations.

The Chairman. He was the Consul?

Mr. Goodwin. Right.

Hasn'e that true?

MI. Schwarz. The paper racord makes it look quite likely

that the Agency, at loast from their point of view, thought

that thay were in chargo.

Mr. Goodwin. They should have told the President. We

sunt all of our messages to nearborn.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 21

0.00

210F048 591001, 8R..Mast-ngton, D.C.19005

TOP SECRET

18

1

2

3

4

6

*7

10

1l

12.

14

15

1€

17

18

19

*:

2%

24

26

Mr. Schwars. What was your understanding of the

location of the machina guns that the dissidants wanted?

MI. Goodwin, I don't remember, but de's dri hare somewhere

in the paper.

(Pause)

Mr. Schwarz. Well, let me cue through the question.

Did you know that the machlie guns vere sent to the

24

Dominican Republio

Mr. Goodwin.

I know now.

Mr. Schwarz. Did you know about it?

Mr. Goodwin. No:. I knew, when the daque arose in May

that we had - we had brought in machine guns, but the preciss

mathod by which they were brought in I never asked about.

The Chaliman. I am having a little difficulty following.

He bogan with your heing told that it was the policy of

the previous Adminiatration to ancourage dissident groups ani

do whatever possible to isolate or to undermine and bring down

the Trujillo regime. Then, following the Inauguration of

President Kennedy, cortain waspons are passed to these

dissidonta in the Dominican Republic for the purpose of

assassinating - of their use in the assassinating President

Trujillo.

Now when did you learn that weapons had been in fact

passed to dissident groups, that obviously had occurred alter

President Kennedy had been inaugurated. When did you firat.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 22

•TOP SECRET

19

1

2

3

Inarn?

5

Mr. Goodwin. On the 13th of May when we raquested from

the hite House a briefing paper on all covert activities in

the Dominiean Republie, that had been conducted in the

Dominican Republic.

Mr. Schwarz. Now that briefing paper was requested from

7

whom?

10

11

17.

13

14

15

16

17

1a

29

2:

22.

23

24

25

Mr. Goodwin. Well, it would have been requested by me for

the President.

Mr. Schwarz. From the CIA?

Mr. Goodwin. From the CIA.

The Chairman: From the CIA, and that belaling paper has

been Identified for the record?

Mr. Goodwin. That is correct.

The Chairmar. 1l1 right.

When you found out that these weapons had been transferred

in January to certain diasident groups for the purpose of

assassinating Trujillo, what did you do?

Was it then your understanding that this was President.

Kannody's policy?

MI. Goodwin. No.

The Chairman. Then what did you do when you received

that information?

Mr. Goodwin. If I may go back for a moment, Senator,

and that is the briating paper involved a very clear distinction

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 23

Moors Arts 2027 $A6

p.

ат..

neron, D.C. 2000₴

SECRET

20

1

3

Б

6

7

B

10

11

18.

12

14

15

16

17

18

19

21

21.

25

batween thase waapons which vere to be used for purposes of

personal type side-arma, the sall-defense attendant to any

projoct and the desire for assassination weapone which would

have consisted of machine guns.

Our response to this brieting paper was immediately to

try to revlew our entira policy toward the Dominican Republic

and preparo, Which ve did over the next couple of waeks,

instructions to the Consul about the nature of fúture relations

with diasidents, because the President falt that Chitod

might be sotting out of hand, with what was happening in the

Dominican Rapublic.

So we did prepare that paper. The President had, as I

said, two great concerns. He didn't want anybody trying to

push Trufillo over unless he knew what was going to happen

nex:, because he would much rather have Trujillo in there than

& Communist: loader. And secondly, that the United States

not be associated with any kind of violent overthrow. And in

the tologram that was

The Chairman. All right.

Now when the President told you that those were his

two concorns, what action was then taken to implement the

Presidant's policy?

Mr, Goodwin. The action that was than taken was to taka

and set daldo the original Instructions

from the Stato

Dapartment and at the President's instructiong, I typad up the

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 24

FROnT 19-96 7088 829

21808 tel 387004, 58. Masha-09a. DE. 2000$

TOR SECRE

21

1

2

3

4

5

6

talagram which in here in my handwrlting, which was to go and

did go, alightly ravined to

Mr. Schwars. Ald right. Lat me mark the one in your

hand as Exhibit 3.

8

(The documant referred to

was marked as Goodwin

ExhiblE NO. JA fOr

identifloation. )

11

12

14

2%.

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 25

ДАРОВ P88)

000.

010 8 288 31-044. $4. 0429-991694, D.C.20003

TOP SECR

1

22

Mr. Schwarg. Hall, lat'a mark tham, Mr. Goodrin - you

know how to do this as wall an I do. Make them J-A, J-D and

3

3-C.

6

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

2U

21

22.

2"

24

25

Mr. Goodwin, In which I personally added in the course

of rowilting -

The Chairman. Can you identify in the Senatora' books

vhere these documente appear?

Mr. Schwarz. Where 1a 3-1?

MI. Goodwin. This 1a 233 at the bottom.

(Pause)

This xerox of my saw, parsonally typevritten dralt appears

page 237. That's my very bad typing and handwriting.

And then pane 256 la the final. And the same pago, 242.

page 237 and 242.

The Chairman. Is 242 the final varsion of the message

that want out?

Mr. Goodwin. Yes.

The Chairman. Thia 1a for Dearborn from State?

Mr. Goodwin. That's correct.

The Chairman. And by whom was the messages signed?

Mr, Goodwin. Probably the Secretary, I guess, but they

are both my drafta. I recoived a draft from the State Depart-

mast, discussed lt with the President, and at his inatruction

propated thia rodralt. I nover would have overridden the state

Dupartmant on my own, and adding to it two major points aside

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 26

**.

2308 cz: 500701.58.10

ur-netran, D.C.20008

1

2

3

4

8

10

11

1?

13

14

15

16

нуколо ілляі

TOP SECRET

23

from rewording dt.' The flat one la on a different matter, and

the second one was to say in the final version, "Howevar, we

must not run the risk of U.S, assoclation with political

assassinations, since the United States as a matter of general

polley cannot condone assasainationa. This last principle 1a

overriding and most prevail in doubtful aituations."

That was insarted at the instruction of the President,

a much atrongor statament of that than oecurs in the State

Department draft, and 1t finishes again with -- 1t says,

"Cloarly, st the presant time we are unable to transfor arms

to dissidents. "Na fool that the transfer of arms would servo

vory little pusposa."

(The document referred to

was marked Goodwin

Exhible No, 1-B for

identification.)

===

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 27

38 2000м

I.Sf.44009-4948405.2000S

1

2

3

6

10

11

1?

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

27

24

26

TOP SECRET

24

The Chairman. Now you saw this telegram and approved it

bafora it was sent by state?

Mr. Goodwin. I wrote it.

The Chalrman, But you said that the state Department

changed the language.

Mr. Goodwin. No. They had prepared an original dealt.

which I changed and redrafted. Now that in hare too, includinn

a note from them saying that I wasn't satisfled with their

draft.

The Chalrman. so this was your own massage, then; that

you ballavod accurataly reflected President Kennedy's policy?

Mr. Goodwin. It was propared at the specific inatruction

of the Prosident, It was shown to him before transmission.

The Chairman. It was shown to tha President?

MI. Goodwin.

Oh, yes.

The Chairman. Very well.

Then, reading the first paragraph, "The President has now

approved contingency plans discussad during your stay hare

with ono major exception. You are not to request a pre-

signed request for help from Dominican dissident groups."

MI, Goodwin. I can axplain that, Sanator.

There was a proposal made in the State Department version

that has been discusaed that the dissident groups, that in case!

they managod to take over the governmant and there was some

kind of lighting that thay should request halp from Venezuela,

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 28

papers (Artel

TOL

SECRET

1

2

3

4

7

10

11

12.

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

26

21

22

25

columbia, a few of our allies and therafore we ought to prepare

them in advanca for such & roquest. The President thought that

putting such a document in their hands would amount to a

declaration of war and wanted lt atruck.

The Chairman. All right.

Then the sacond paragraph, "We consider it essential that

you continue to work" - wall, bafore we go on with the necond

paragraph, in the firat paragraph you say, "The President has

now approved contingency plans discused during your stay here

with one major excoption."

Now, what were those contingancy plans that had been

discussed?

Mr. Goodwin. They have them hare, I bollove.. I think -

this is a very thick document, where you hava a series of

contingency plans, it discusses here. "The paramount interest

of the United States lo to assure that Castro-Communiat

clements not take over." It says Trujillo la weak, and then it

Is an analysis of the dissidents and their intention, the

weakness of the trujillo ragime, and it goes into the covert

activitles, which, I think probably - is that your prineipal

intorest at thia time?

The Chairman. Yes.

Mr. Goodwin. There's an Appendix that sets forth all tho

covert activitias. Recommendation A of the Unltod Stater,

2÷

25

not initiato the overthrow of trujillo, that we inform prod.s.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 29

tape 5b

от.

n00

TOP SECRET

26

1

2

3

4

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

29

21

22.

24

25

dissidents that if they succeed on their own and form an

acceptable government va will be glad to coms in and help tham

and then the rest talke about here, waya of recognizing -

The Chairman. There le nothiny in that contingency

plan that contamplated the assassination of Trujillo himsell?

Mr. Goodwin. It contamplated only the possibility that

he might be assassinated, not that we would assassinate him.

The Chairman. But it he were'assassinatad, de would have

presumably buen the result of an action by a dissident group

to overthrow his regime?

Mr. Goodwin, Yes.

The Chalrman. M11 right.

Moving to Paragraph 2 in your message - the President's

message to Mr. Dearborn, "No consider it ensential that you

continue to work to atrengthen pro-u.S. sentiment among diasl-

dent groups. Your work along this line has been invaluable.

Howevar, we must not run the risk of u.s. association wich

political assassination, since the U.S., as a matter of general

policy cannot condone assassination. This last principle is

overriding and must prevail in doubtful situationa."

How that language, it has been suggested by some members

of the committos that your concern hare had to do with avoldin

any relationahip that mighe lead to a diaclosure that the

Undted Status had Indoed an inturest in or was somshow involved

in a plot to assassinato Trujillo.

Because you say, "nowaver

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 30

(Amao 7071 976-4001

0.6.20009

STOP SECRET

1

6

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'7

16 1

13

1:

2%.

2!

2.4

we must not run the rink of U.8. association vith politioal

assassination, sinco the U.S. as a matter of general polloy

cannot condone assasaination. Thia lant principle 1a over.

r1ding and must prevall in doubtful aituations."

Now don't those words at least convey or lend themselves

the Interpretation that your primary concarn was that the

United States should not get caught?

MI. roodwin. Wall, I don'e hellave so, senator, because

I think, to me, the plain meaning of che vords and as i

underatood it was that we must not run the riak of u.s.

association vich political assassination. That meana not

be associated with the process of political assassination in

апу trm.

Senator Baker. Mr. Chalrman?

In that same vein, 1e I could interrupt for just a second,

18 1t true -= and would Counsel prompt me - that the guns had

already been dispatched?

Me. Schwarz. Certain guns.

Senator Baker, I'm not talking about how many, Fritz.

Guns had been dispatched.

15. Schwarz. But this talegram refuses the passage of

four machine guns.

Senator Baker.

I'm not going to arque with you.

I am

Just saying that guns had been dispatcher.

Senator Schwalkar, What's the date of this talonram?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 31

1.=

C

торто f/6N40 P37) 784-16090441

# A POO

1

6

7

8

10

11

12

13,

14

15

16

16

19

20

21

2%

23

24

25

STOP SECRET

28

Sanator Bakar. This vas just before the assassination,

two days before the assasination.

Mr. Smothers. Carbines and pistola had been dispatched.

Machine guns were in the country but had not been turned over

to the desidents.

Sanator Baksr. And now, in retrospact, no're not quite

sure = or thore's no indication that the quna vare actually

used in the assassination, although they may have been in the

back seat. Is that about the way it stacke up?

The Chalrman. And the dissidente had requested machine

guns.

Sanator Baker. And the witness, or another witness, has

sald we thought tho signale for assassination afforts for

nachine guns, when in fact it would appear that they went ahead

with the material in hand.

Mr. Goodwin, I balieve they had additionad guns of their

own. You wouldn't try it with a 3a.

Sanator Tower. I think the type of guns is important,

because carbines or pistols wouldn't ba used in an assassination

against a hoavily armad

Mr. Goodwin. Trufillo travalled with bodyguards in a

hravily armed car.

Also, if I might add, Senator =

The Chalrman. Just to understand what you have said,

8

the author of this instruction and having conferred about

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 32

в драрою дОДу довІ

r..

C

mpion. D.E. 2000%

1

2

3

5

6

7

8

10

11

12

1"

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

24

25

TOP SECRET

29

it and having shown le to Prasident Kennedy, are you testifying

that it was your understanding that the meaning of that

sentance . that that sentence wan intended to convey to Mr.

Dearborn a prohibition againat involving the Unitad States

In an assassination attempt on tha life of Me. TrUj1110?

Mr. Goodwin. Absolutely, And in my tirat draft. I did 1t

In torms of diacloaure and changed that, struck that phrase

about disclosure in ordar to maxe the point, and alwayo at the

President's Instruction, to mako absolutely clear to the Consul

bacause I uned' the very word disclosure, you can see here, and

I crossed it out, in my handwritina.

Mr. schwarz, Could you read into the record how you

changed it?

Mr, Goodwin. Well, It's not very prammatical, it's

ambarrassing. Also, on the xerox - I can't read the hand-

writing on the xerox.

"Ilowaver we also must not" -- something - "permit any

danger of discloßing any U.S. association with political

assassination or intervention in the Dominican

Republie,"

It says or intervention. Mll that was atruck.

Senator Baker, That sounds 1lko exactly what the Chalrman

asked you. It sounds like lt migh: be intarpretel as, plodie

don't got caught.

MI, Goodwin. Absolutely, which do why i changer it,

Sanator, to road "However, we must not run riske of 11.5.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 33

TOP DECRET

30

association with political assasuination mince the U.3., s8 a

matter of general polley, cannot condone assassination."

Senator Bakor, I've got to say, and i don't mean le ec

Do critical of this witness, but on lirat reading of this

document, which was some time ago, lt sounded a lot to me 11ke

the Mission Impossible opening when they say, 1f you got caught

the secretary will disavow any knowledge of thie undertaking.

Mr. Coodwin. I wasn't familiar with the program ae this

time.

1109a61 587011.58,N21999109, 0.C.20003

1

2

3

4

5

7

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

2%

23

2.4

25

Sonator Baker, "or was I, at that time.

I need radssurance, and I think the record doas, that the

coincidance of that this cablo, this wire, going out, say two

daya bofore the assassination, ' after guns in fact had been

dispatched, although not the gune they requested, and under

the circumstances lt might lend itsalf to that interpretation.

This witnesa says 1e does not. Thare la no evidence to

the contrary that I'm aware of, and I don't know that we need

to pursue the issue any further.

Mr. Goodwin. If I may, Sanator =

Sonator Bakar, And it also, as smothera points out, that

thora was another communication saying destroy anything you've

got, all those communications excapt this cabla.

Mr. Maron. That is standard practice, That is the standari!

practico for covert operations,

Ms, Goodwin. My rasponse, Senator, la that the carbinor

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 34

PoorEs (Arrao 7979 $6A

A10 Forse 89+p0

TOP SECRET

1

2

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

2%

25

22-1

2!

31

and platols were transferred in late January, 1960, subsequent

to an authorization of January 12th, prior to Kennedy's takinn

office. I'm not sure of the date of the transfor. I haven't

saan any indication of the date of that translor. I do know

that the President was not aware of any transfer of guns,

bocause ho told ma ho was not avaro of de, until ve finally

regunatod a review a couple of montha, a lew monthe later, of

our complete covart operations in the Dominican Republie, at

which point we became aware that this transfer had occurred.

I still don't know the date of that transfer.

And then it was the baste of that hrlefing paper, which

obviously the Dominican Rapublie was not the first matter on

President Kennedy's agenda when he came into offica, on the

basis of that briofing paper, he raviewed our policy and sent.

this tolagram.

The Chairman. And was the purpose of the telegram to call

off any further involvement by the United States government in

an assassination attempt against. Mr. Trujillo.

Mr. Goodwin. The purpose was to make sure the United

Status was not involved in any assassination. The purpose was

to

slow down that kind of ovor-zealousness. The President was

not that anxious to see Trujillo thrown out.

Sanator Tower, That dossn't totally answor the question.

Mr. Goodwin. Well, I'm sorry.

The Chairman, Hall, you see, we know, from your testimony,

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 35

C.

TAND

1106171 $1-001, 58-MostratiOn, D.6.20001

1

2

5

6

7

8

9

10

.11

12

1z

14

16

16

1:

1b

19

2'%

2:

22

24

25

TOP SECRET

32

that you had bear adviaad in May that cartain weapone had been

transferrad to cortain dissident groups who at least had

expressed an Intarast in assassinating Trufillo.

MI. Goodwin. Correct.

The Chairman. So thare was a connection, the connection

being that the Marican government, through the CIA, furnished

weapons to a group that had communicated ita interest, 1i not

Its Intention, to assassinate Trujillo.

So then you sand this message, and I'm asking you if the

massage was meant to call this off, thin involvement. wat

axactly was meant? You waren't saying recover those arma.

Mr. roodwin. No, I wasn't. No.

The Chairman. Dut at the same time, you ware saying, don'e

transfer the machine guns, were you not?

Mr. Goodwin. That's right. I think the President -- what

no Hare saying is -

The Charman. What axactly were you saying?

Mr. Goodwin: We were saving that we didn't want to do

anything that would involve us further, the United States

further, in any effort to assassinato Trujillo.

The Chairman, I sot. I 500.

Mr. Goodwin. Because we ware not for assassination.

Sanator Baker. The distinction is -

Senator Tower. Woll, it saya hare in number 1, 1t says,

continue to inform dissident elements of U.S. support of their

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 36

810 * uSt 89r004,5 5€.001

кол. В 6.70001

1

2

3

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'7

19

20

21

2P.

2:

21,

TOP SECRET:

ren

C..

Plactand (Auget 2007

33

position. So what, again the interpretation that can be drawn

from this la that wa don'e want to be involved, but do ahead

and have the other quys on, becauss their position would be to

assassinate trujillo, so what you are in affect doing 19 sayino.

let's don'e be Involved in it but let's indicate our support

for what they are doing.

Mr. Goodwin. He wars indicating our support for what they.

wore doing on the basis of the estimate in the contingency

papor that Trujillo's days were numberel and whoaver took office

wa wanted to be our man, that la correct. And so wa were goinn

to support and try to ratain relatione and say we would support i

which is not a difficult thing to do, as you know, any group

that might take offico and be modarate and pro-united states.

That was all wa wore interested in, was having a pro-american

government.

Senator Schweiker. Wall, there are two othar references

hore, Mr, loodwin. Paragraph 3, "In case of assassination or

overthrow" - obviously you still had a reference thare, whether

initiated by a pro-u.s. group or not, was still part of the

planning, and then back on page 3 you say, "In actual fact, we

fool the transfor of arms would sarve very little purposa and

expose tha United Statos to great dangar of ultimate disclosuro

participation in an essassination attempt," and that 1s

scratched out, and says "assassination attempt," meaning that

thoro was = to me -- some othor plan afoot to assassinato

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 37

*TOP SECRET:

• кАтфо 797.

C.

aigragles, 06.20009

1

2

4

5

6

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

34

since the ultimate would still be disclosed if you gave thia.

So what interpretation? I mean, thia la rift here with

sassination propositions, and the fact that you have ultimate

disclosure," foar of ultimato disclosure of participation.

asant that cortainly thare was something already afoot, that

ultimately would be disclosed 1f you want ahead with this

pass through.

Mr. Goodwin. I think what we were saying is 16 we did,

de would bo found out ultimataly, which means not right away.

but lator. In the case of assassination or overthrow, there

wara many groups, a continual flow of groups, of information.

that there ware varlous groups planning to assassinate

Trujillo.

Senator Schwolker. Well, if that's what it meant, than

why did you dalete it?

MI. Gooduin. Well, I think -

Sonator Schwalker. If that was your interpretation, why

1t

In fact did you dalete those four words, "ultimate disclosure

19|

of participation?"

--=

'2:

Mr. coodwin. Could you tell ma what page you're roading

from?

::

24

24

21.

Sanator Schwalker. Pars 3.

The very words that you interpret one way ware in fact

dolated, which shows to mu that you meant them another way, or

they wouldn't have been deleted, and you substitute two words

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 38

• :

-.

HAPD

C.

$ 2509 S4+759, SE, Mastrangeron, DE, 2000$

1

3

5

6

7

9

10

11

12

12

14

1%

16

1'

18

19

20

1'1

27.

24.

24

25

TOP SECRET

35

for 1t.

Mr. Goodwin. Hall, & mean --

Senator Schwelker, So that you disguise that.

MT. Goodwin. Hell, the words were deleted because they

ware words that were going to give axactly the impression you

are talking about. By talking about ultimata disclosure. g

ware afraid of being lound out and what we didn't want was any

ansociation with the assassination attempta, no the reference

to disclosure was struck and the words association were

insertad.

Senator Schwelker. Mut you still call off - you still

left the language, in actual fact we feel the transter of arms

would surve very little purpose and expose the United States

to great danger of association with assasaination attempte.

That still makes the point that you want to make, but you had

other language, that says "ultimate disclosure of participation

which implies to me you ware concerned about other things you

wore doing and things that had alraady bean programmed and ar.

operation that you ware as much concerned about those baina --

or you wouldn't have changed the language to still say the game;

thing with that one diatinction ahout somethina else being

aloot. I don't

Mr, Goodwin, Noll, I changed 1t, I believo, Senator --

mean it's hard to ba hald responsible for languano that wan

sojoctoil becauso it was inaccurate. The problem was not one

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 39

TOP SECRET

2

..--

36

of disclosure, the problem was we did not want to be associated

with assassination. That's why I atruck it out.

Senator Schwalker. You changed the language, but the first

part of it romained exactly the same. In fact, wa feel the

tranafar of arms would serve very little purpose and expose

the United States. So while you changed the language, you had

the same condition there that you vera not goint to aupply those

arma.

C

c..

C.

Aen. D.6. 20009

В т

8

9

Mr. Goodwin, No weren't, that's correct. we were not --

Sanator Schwalker, But why ware you not concerned about

10

the other language, because ..

11

12.

Mr. Goodwin. Necause the implication ol the ocher lanquana

I? I was that, well, we were worried ahout being found out, when in

fact what the poldcy was was that we did not want to be

14

involved. So l struck the implication.

15

Mr. Smothers. Me. Goodwin, why was the communication of

16

1: I our withdrawing to Dearborn? The only way Dearborn could have

bean any closer to thia plot would have been to bacome one of

1::

it

the dissident group. They told him everuthing thay did, down

19

"to and including when the car was coming down the road. And

2':

*:

was knew that, didn't we?

12.2

Mr, roodwin. Nell, I haven't seen any communications to

2%

us that said that. I would not have = I mean, one of his

24

instructions was to kesp in very close contact with these

24

li dissident groups. I wouldn't ha surpriaed if they dropper by

20

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 40

PAGE /AN9A

form

C.

#10F M79 37-999.8$.10

1

2

}

8

9

10

11

1?

14

15

1 6

17

18

19

8.1

24

21,

TOPISEGRET

37

and if they told him everything they ware planning to do. Dut

It's a long jump betweon saying you're going out and k111

Trujillo and pulling le off, as many people tried.

But I was not aware, as I can ramember, that he had any

kind of detailed information.

Mr. Smothers. Illa messages back to CIA, in fact, convay

chose datails, don'e thay?

Mr. Goodwin. Not that I saw after chla, when these

none of than that =

Mr. Schwarz. Wall, did you know or did you not know that

the dissidente intonded to use the small arma, carbines and

pistols, and othar materials they har themselves, but intended

to use the weapons we had aupplied to agsassinate Trujillo in

precisely the way he was, in fact, aasaasinated? Did you know

that befora you wrote the telagram, or not?

MI. Goodwin. No, bacause what I'm rasponding to is a

roquest that says we can't do lt unless wa have the machina

guns, and that's to bu used for the assassination.

He 'are

aaying, don'e give them machine nuns.

Later on they said to Dearhorn, l mean ho did tall me

that afterwards, I don't know when they told him, well, we'll

do It, whether of not wa get the machine guns. I mean, that

might also just bravado, or an effort to bluft us into sayinn.

wall, you might as wall giva lt to them anyway aince they ro

going to do it. I don't know why anyone would take on

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 41

tr

M.

C

-ow. D.E.2000)

192737383

TOP SECRET"

38

1

Trujillo with a .18. I wouldn't have thought that, 1f I thought

6

*7

9

10

11

12.

13

14

15

16

17

18

about it.

President Kunnedy went to Paria a week or two later. When

the assassination actually occurred, ve ware all taken by

surprise, so that Dearborn had dotalled knowledge of when it

was going to occur, we didn't. The Vice President - he called

an aftergency meeting with the Vica Preuident, a telegram was sent

to Paris, and then the assassination ended up gatting announcel

by Pierra Salinger.

But this instruction, the Premident told me he wanted to

make It absolutely clear we're not goteing Involved in

assasainationa.

Sanator Mondale. Mr. Goodwin, the record

shows - I chink

you've tostifled to this = that toward the end of the Eisenhower

Administration, they decided to supply arms to this dissident

group and asslat in the assasaination of Mr. Trujillo. Then,

as thase documents show, at some point very near to the time

that. Mr. Trujillo was actually assassinated, a telegram was

19

sent to our Consul saying, we don't want to be associated with

¿u l this.

24

2.1,

Why didn't we

also say stop it, toll those poople not

to proceed further, in light of the fact that they may have

thought, bacause of previous history, that their afforts to

assassinato Trujillo had our blessing? In other words, thare

is still a pioce missiny, in my opinion, that should have

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 42

r.

DA#D

т,т. D.С. 70005

STOP SECRET

39

1

2

5

6

7

8

10

11

12

1?

14

15

16

1'7

14

19

suggasted

Sanstor Tower. Weld, the next line says, "Continue to

Inform dissidants of U.S, support for their position."

Senator Mondale. In othar words, 1! I were one of those

dissidents and I qut that from the United States pursuant to

this earlier agreament, I would feel ancourager to bellove that

I had the support of the United Statas in k111ing

Trutillo, and

that wo woren't exactly noutral in that, at least, our govern-

ment was not really neutral, that it encouraged them.

It to true that they didn't get the machine guns, and it

Is true, apparently that what you undergtood was that thay

wantad the machine guns for assassination and thay wanter the

other weapons for personal defense, but thare was still, it

would soan to me, reason for them to believe that they had our

support.

Why didn't we say or communicate to tham we want you to

stop and we don't want thia man assassinated, and we want you

to know that we will have nothing to do with it?

Why wasn't that final - I just want to make one more

24, 1

point -=

?? 1

Thero was a similar talegran sent juat bafore Diem was

2%

assassinated -- now these are entirely different matters, and

8.6

I appreciato that == but it alwaya seems to me that lt we're

24

worriad about human lllo, lf wa're worried about corractine a

21,

policy that may have set a possibla assasaination in motion,

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 43

L20E

C

mama. 0 € 70003

TOP SECRET

40

1

?.

3

5

6

9

10

11

12

===.

1?

1 i

15

16,

1'9

13

the way to raally disassociate lt da to say atop, and that is

really what I don't understand.

Mr. Goodwin. Wall, let me say, Senator, llrst of all,

that the question of assassination now is paramount

in people's

minds. There 1a no doubt that wa hoped that trujillo would. he

overthrown, Not only was their no doubt, but there was a

unanimous vote of the Organization of American States that 1t

be ostracized and sanctions imposed with the hope that 1t

might happen. And that occurred avar before wa took office and

we wors in full agraament with it.

There are papers hare which talk about the event of a coup

of how you're going to get trujillo some money to get him out

of the country, Assasaination was always a possibility, but

a coup d'otat, a revolution or a civil war of some kind, a whole

range of possibilities. And we did, in fact, bellove that

Trujillo was going to be overthrown one way or another and

not necessarily, or aven in paramount in our minds, by aggass1-

nation bocause -- in fact, 15 would soom at that time to be the

most difficult thing of all to do. He was heavily guarded and

21; protocted, ordinarily. They knew more about it than we did.

2:

And when that happoned, which wa favored that happoned,

I bacause wa felt that the datablishment of a democratic rarime

==.:

in tha Dominican Republic was something not only benoficial to

2:

tha United States and to our policias. I mean, when wo'ra

25.

talking about Trujillo he was not - I mean, about human 11fe,

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 44

прирока 1 5009 2027 840-$001

-gron, D.E. P000 9

TOP SECRET:

the man was not only a Fasciat, but he was a murderer. lle uner

to have a franzar room in the back of his house where he would

take poople and show cham the bodies of enemies.

Dut in any event, that's none of our concern, but our real

concern was that this was regarded as an Inovitability and te

6

wanted to bo associated with the new government.

Senator Mondule. I undarstand, but the arquent is made

with respoct to that last telagram that lt was a fig leat

telegram designed to cover our tracks should assassination occur

10

and you arque, and I think persuasivaly, that you intended much

11

mors than that, you intended to make lt clear that we were not

supporting tho assassination, that machina quas were not golna

17.

to be used.

1÷

If that was our intent, and I take le that lt was, why

15

wo didn't we go one step further and say please communicate to

16.

those dissidents who have avery reason to believe from past

I''" history that we may be supporting the overthrow,. including

lo i assassination, that wa oppose the assassination of Mr. Trujillo.

13

Wouldn't that make It very clear than that we were out of

the business?

Mr. roodwin. I don't know. It would have made it, I

27.

suppose, classer to tham. On the other hand, I think, it's

their country, and they could deal with Trufillo as thay wantad

to.

It was not going to be us that daalt with him in. this

21.

fashion.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 45

+ (Пл96 798)960

+0+467 6018p188+0209-9897

D.1.10001

TOP SECRET

]

2

5

6

8

10

11

1?

==

13

15

1:

18

;::

%.r.

24

*;

21.

42

Senator Mondalo, Yeah, but see, if va vera completely

noutral I'd agree with that. If they wanted to assassinato

Trujillo that's their business. I agree with it, that's none

of our business.

But I think we were already implicated. It's sort of like

being in a criminal conspiracy and then pulling out the day

before the job is done and not telling anybody. It suans to

me you should say, boys, I'm out and I don't want you to do lt.

The Chaleman. I've changad my mind.

Sanator Mondala, That's why I don't understand.

Senator Dater. It's sort of like the situation that's

bean described to la where peopla ware beyond control and you

couldn't communicate with them after the forces had been aut

in motion.

H5. Goodwin. Hell, may I tell you, I don't know that therel

aver was any statement that those que that were authorized on

January 12th, aither in the authorization or subsequent, for

the purposes of assassination or otherwise.

Mr. Schwarz. Well, thare were iscores of those,

=

and whother they raachad you or not is a separate and important

question, but thare are four or five axamplos of communication

to the Agancy, and I think passad on to the Stato Department.

and that those guns were to ba used for an assassination eflort

whather or not the machine guns vare obtained.

Senator Mondala. Woll, you see, that could be important,

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 46

taguan (/000a 7848) B166-89091

C.

N700k

TOP SECRET.

4 3

1

2

10

11

12.

13

14

15

16

18

19

20 l

21

21

24

25

becausa if your understanding was as you have just described

then the tolegram makes more sense. But 1! In fact vo vare

Implicated, as I underatood earlier in assassination attempts --

The Chairman. Filtz, look at the way Dearborn 15. 1

think it's vary important to understand this matter, to 100k

at the way Dearborn apparently underatood the instruction. He

was the one to whom it was given, and he wires back, having

recalves the Inatruction, the following - now this 18 at tah

J, book 2 of 2, the sacond is.

It saya -- firat of all, do you have that, Mr. Goodwin?

MI. Goodwin. Yes, I do.

The Chairman. It says: "One, I belleve we can hold pro-linite

States dissidents, although with some grumbling on the basis

set forth." Now you'ra not likely to hold them if you tall

them you're no longer connected with thair scheme and Mr.

Dearborn had not been instructed to tell them that.

"Two, following our observations for Department and CAS

considerations, A) 11 attempt is made by United States' trends

to assassinate Trujillo, there will bo accusations against us

and the best we can do la sae there la no proof."

Sonator Baker. To see thate is no proot.

The Chairman, "The greatest danger point 1s Thomas stockard.

Ho was given a small number of arms by dissidant agents to hold

several days and has told several parsona disaldents obtalned

those Items from Consulate. Stockard told me saying, I have

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 47

• TOP SECRET

Dom

D.‹ 20003

tapoi

]

informed him thia cannot be true or I would know

and when he

2

requested me supply arms through him for digidents, I told

3

him 1t was impossible. He : la greater danger because of

personal ambiterment againat CAS, a matter of which CAS head-

5

6

quarters 1a fully Informed.*

Than ho goes on to say that "since local CAS la now to

ungage mainly in Intelligance collection and raporting, !

8

recommend urgent transfar from the Dominican Republie of three

CIA officars. If sinnering assassination plot should mater 1: 11u

10

they would be in danger and might be picked up for trujillo-

11

type questioning. This la easily avoidable hy quick transfer

now. These three have ongaged in fully authorized actlvity

which, if uncovered, could put the Unlted States in bad publle

position. There la still considerable job in counterespionage

1:

and the collection and reporting and need to follow GODR.

16.

foster Laftiat activitiea."

1'1

Mow there's a vote on.

I read this because it suggests that Mr. Dearborn got a

1!

"different message than the one you say you intended to sand.

(A briot recess was taken.)

The Chairman. Lot's go back on the racord.

?:!

Mr. Goodwin. Wall, that paragraph, to me, Senator,

Paragraph A =- I am not sure whether his interpretation o!

2i! Instructions, or at least in spocifles, seems to be cleas.

at lle says that he has informed tham that he cannot supply arms

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 48

TOP SECRET

PASTA (ANDs 202) S76

2

3

6

7

9

10

21

12.

12

14

1&

16

1'7

1&

1?

20

21

2P.

24

25

45

to the dissidents, and that la what 1s what Kennody, of course,

had said in the talagram. And the request had been to know

whether or not he could supply arma.

So that I ane from that point of vlaw, l am not sure,

quite clear, In what way ha misinterpreted the telegram.

The Charman. Hell, lot's go down - I don'e think he

has misinterpretad his instructions not to supply more arms.

That's clear anough. Aut if you go down to D . are you with

mes now?

Mr. Goodwin. Yes.

The Chairman. "Since local CAS" - I quass that should

ba Chief of station - "Since local Chiat of Station, then" ..

and that would be CIA Chief of Station - "Since local Chief

of Station 1a now to engage mainly In Intelligence collection

and roporting, I recommand urgent transler from Dominican

Rapublie of three CIA officars. If sinharing assassination plot;

should materialize" - now that in itselt, if I may digress a

moment, suggests that in. Dearborn's opinion assassination might

be imminent. For he says "If simmering assassination plot

should materializa, they would ba in danger and might be picker

up for Trujillo-type quastioning. This is easily avoidablo by

gulck transfer now." -- again the indication of his feeling

that an assassination might ba imminent, otharwise, why transfar

thom. "These threo have engaged in fully authorized activitias

which, If uncovared, could put the liniter States in bad public

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 49

a (9194 792) 949-06001

6.

1

3

6

9

10

1?

13

14

15

16

1'1

17.

19

21

24.

122

24

2!.

TOP SECRET

46

position."

Now. I would road those words as meaning that Mr. Dearborn

antleipated at loast the real possibillty of assasaination

attempts in the immediato future and that he was recommendino

that those CIA officers that had been connecter with having

supplied weapons should be taken out of the Dominican Republie

right away.

Mr. Goodwin. Hall, I would agree with a good part of that.

Sanator, although I think that there were assassination plots

aimmering in the Dominican Republic and now, and of coursa this

in fact took place.

And I think he was concerned that the

assassination would be unsuccessful, that Trufillo would pich.

up the Anerleans and find out not simply about the tranator of

guns but the whole range of covert activities that they had

been angaged in, torture them and perhaps kill then.

And he thought the safest thing to do, with this thine in

the alr, was to get them out of the country. There was nothing!

I think, in the telegram that was sent to him that dandes the

possibility that trujillo might be assassinated or that there

might be an attempted

assassination, which is the purport of

Duarborn's, bocausa ll the assassination was succossful, thera

was no noad to get the cIA out.

The Chairman,. But there is something more, roally. It

the possibility of assassination was a long continuing china.

always on the mind of Maarhorn, why does he respond to this

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 50

3

I A MO

0 Pret 591401,58, MashimotOR, DE. 7000}

TOP SECRET "

47

1

2.

6

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

instruction by saying, gut these men out now?

Mr. Goodwin. Woll I think obvlously these people had

relayed to him that they're going to try to make the attampe

anyway, with or without the machine guns. He thought the attempt

might be abortive, and it so, he thoucht that all Americans or

paople that worked for him or with him would be in danger.

Tho Chairman. Then you would have to aare with ma,

wouldn't you, that in his opinion. Dearborn's opinion, he had

evidence that auggasted to him that an assassination attempt

was imminant.

Mr. Goodwin. I think that's clear. Yen, l think le was.

The Chairman. And ha took this sufficiently serious to

recommend gatting the thred CIA agents out without further

dalay?

Mr. Goodwin. I think that's right. That's absolutely

true, because I think he bellevad that there vas a serious

attempt in the offing, as indeed there was, and he vas absolutely

right and he was doing his job wall.

I would like to say, if I might go back, that in terms of

i

tho tolegram, is that I sat in the office with President

Z0

¡Kennedy who instructed me to draft a telegram to say that ha

wanted nothing to do with political assassinations, which i

28.

did,

so It's not a matter of interpretation, because he cannot

23

testify to that mattor, so le's not a question of reading the

taxt so much as deciding whether of not I'm tolling the truth

25

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 51

C.

matrn. D.F. 2700$

1

2

10

11

1?

14

15

16

1'1

19

21,

4. 1

27

2::

?!.

TOP SECRE1

4 Я

about that instruction.

Mr. Schwarz. Assuming that you are telling the truth

Mr. Goodwin. Thank you.

Mr. Schwarz. He hava to explore whether something went

wrong in the communication process, and I want to put some

information in front of you and then see if you can help us

explain what, if anything, want wrong.

Hould you show him Exhibit 2-^.

Now Exhibit 2-À 1a a cable dated March 20th from the Agency

in the Dominican Rapublic to the Agancy In Hashinaton, And

roading. in Paragraph 3, lt descrlbas the way In which - 1t

describas a plot.

In Paragraph 4, it says the following: "To do, they neerl

live M-3's or comparable machine guns and 1500 rounde

ammunition for personal defense in event tire light. Will use

quiet weapons for basic Job." Now the basic job is apparently

the assassination.

Now assin, were you told - now, in Exhibit l, you ware

cold In the briefing on covert action by the cIA that tho

carbines and the pistols had been passed for personal dofense

waapona and not to do the basic job, as this telegram indicatos.

Mr. Goodwin. That's correct. That's what it says.

Mr. Schwarz. . Right. I understand that.

Now, what I am trying to undorstand is, in telling you

that

the waapons had boon passed for paraonal dalense purposes, do

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 52

ta9.90. 00.10009

TOP SECRET

49

you think that is consistent, 1s candid, in light of the

fact that the Agency had boon told that other weapong ware

3

going to be used for the basie job, that ls the ansassination.

Mr. Goodwin. Holl, thare are several communicationa

regarding the weapon details of the plen and they are obviously!

6

inconsistant.

7

Mr. Schwara. Thay are.

Mr. Goodwin, The telegrams say it, bue on the other hand.

a carbine or pistol 18 hardly a quiet weapon. I mean, I would

10

ronard that as raying I am going in strangle him. And it

you're going to have a fire liaht with machine suns, l mear.

11

in other words, it saams to ma that somebody is interprettin

17

what they say, or they might have had five or six different

plang.

14

The request that came to the white louse, iinally, was

1÷

very apacific, and this 1s too, that additional weapons are

16

needed in ordor to carry out an assassination plot. I mean,

i however you read this, they do say they need additional weapons

1c

to carry off an assassination. And that la what the President

19

at at that podnt had in mind on May lith, around May leh, about

the original transfer, which was not pursuant to any polley that:

¿ho had ustablishod of any directions that he had giver, Immediatel!'

Bald, you know, make it clear to Dearborn that wa're not rotting

, Involvod in assassinations. They can do what they want, but

8.4

ara not going to get involved.

21.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 53

ПОЛА ІДОДО РОРІ ВАНАВО

С.

4178 9t 991004,9€.19219

CAN D6 1000}

TOP SECRET:

50

2

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

1*.

14

16

17

Sanator Mondale. In othar worde, the President was

advised by you that there was an assassination plot in which we

were Implicated and he told you that wa don't want any part of

it and you are to send a message on his authority saying that,

and that is what you thought you had done?

Mr. Goodwin. I would phrase lt a little bit differently,

Senator, which is to say I would say there were people who

vanted to assassinata Trujillo to whom we had given some quns

and hia response was probably like, you mean some idiot gave

them guns? I sald, yos.

le said .= thia ls a paraphrago.-

you know, 1f you know Senator Kennedy, or President Kennedy,

I mean, ha said, woll, let's make it clear. And if you compare

my draft with the Stato Department draft, I was overridian, as

they point out, bacausa their draft says, wa're tryino to ret

this message through but wa're blocked by 145. Goodwin and have

to send his message instead. They would rather blame me, of

course, than the President.

It is clear that the stress la changed to make lt clear

18

1' that the President wants

nothina to do and cannot condone

assassination. It does not say cannot condone baing caught at

::' assassination, it says cannot condone assasaination. Anil I did

an " that becauss ho told me to do that.

The Chairman. And you have characterized the Kennody

.:polley as one of gettino the novernmant no further Involve!

bacauss there had been a past involvemant? lla know that an!

%!

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 54

TOP SECRET

was (9164 7921 869-700

.

Г.

1000: 30 boragion: 151590068

1

2

10

17

14

14

16.

51

you knew that, to the extent that weapons had been furnished

dissident groupa who had expressed an intoreat in assaulnating

Trufillo. And your intention hare in sending this telegram

was to convey to Mr. Dearborn that the Kennedy raministration

wanted no further involvemont in this --

MI. Goodwin, That's right. le found - the President

found out on May 13th that pursuant to the authorization that

procaedad his coming into offico that a couple of carbines and

platols had boon transferred in order to mount a major assault

on a government that had lasted for thirty yars, and le seemor

at that point like a formidable threat to trufillo.

llo wanted to make it absolutoly clear when he found out

that anybody who wantad to assassinata Trufillo in the Dominican

Republic that they ware going to do it on their own, the

United States would have nothing to do with it and we give out

no more weapons and this is why he said wa do not want to

condone assassination or be assoclated with it. And that's why

I wrote the tologram that I drafted that's in my handwriting.

1:

Sanator Towar, Well, may I ask you, then, what you

?..

, interpratted

the meaning of the first sentence in number ?,

• "Continue to inform dissident alementa of U.S. support lor

%:

2'%.

"thair position?"

15, roodwin, Thay were -- thair poaltion was that, what

ithey rogardod as that Trujillo should he overthroun and raplace!

"by a moderaty governmant, la supported that position, as did

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 55

TOP SECRET

2

3

5

en.

B

9

10

11

1?.

52

the other mambors of the Organization of Mmerican States, an

wa wanted to make it very clear that we did support that

position and we wished then well in their efforts to establish

that position and 18 thay did we would recognize their govern-

ment and sand them asslatance, which we did.

As a matter of fact, we took much greater efforta to

got rid of Ramos Trujillo In the six months that followed the

aBBassination than anything that proceeded it, including bringiry

the Amorican float practically into the harbor at Cuidad

Trujillo at the direction of the secretary of Dalense.

Insteadl

of carbines and pistols, wa brought in destroyers, alicraft

carriors and Marine battalions so that they would know what

the consequencas might bo lf they didn't got out when they not

oue.

1÷

15

If I might make one more point, senator, 1f l may, la that

1C

tho countries of South America are full of quns sent there

17

==

by the American government to be used to kill thousands of

i people over the last several decades, and with the lone

1!

axception of both revolutionaries from underneath and armies

2'

from on top - of course you're well-acquainted with that --

i::

, sent knowing that they would be used to kill people in Interral

e l struggles. The only distinction in this case 1a that Trufillo

2!

happened to be the head of state, which is a practical

21

distinction, but you could hardly mate a moral ono.

Senator Baker. Me. Chairman, could i ask a quastion in

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 56

+14496 7973 344

* 80

notar, DE 2900}

1

4

5

7

9

10

11

1?

13

14

1%

17

18

19

20

22

TOP. SECRET

: 53

that raspect?

The Chairman. Hall, I am not sure I agroo with that,

although that la a philosophical argument.

Sanator Baker. Are you talling us, Mr. Goodwin, that

assassination, not of hoads of stato, but assassination of

lesser figures was a common, ordinary occurrence in South

America se the bahost of imarica or with American support?

Mr, Goodwin. No, 1 am talking about that we supply arma

to ravolutionary groups or to armed groupa which we did in

say Bolivia, or sometimos to the government itsall, or in Chile

wo gave assiatance of various kinds to dinnidant groups with

the knowledge that our assistance would he used in internal

struggles.

I don't have to use the word assassinations.

Sanator Baker. But how about for internal struggles, then,

as opposed to assassination?

Mr. Goodwin, Wall, this is an internal struggle in the

Dominican Republic.

The Chairman. I think you recoqnize the distinction,

because it is well-defined in our criminal laws. There is

a difforonco botween flust depres murdor and manslaughter.

¡i Thore is supposed to connote a cartain differance in moral

connotations, and undertaking dollbarate action that is

targetter againat a particular person with the intantion o!

murdering that porson is normally regarded under our criminal

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 57

-a 4

we

т.т910, D.6.20003

1

2

3.

4

5

6

7

8

10

11

1::

12

14

15

16

1%

18

20'

2%.

24

1:4

25

TOP SECRET

34

laws as the most roprahansibla kind of homicide and therefore

dofinted as murder'in the firat degree. So there mást be some

gradation thare.

Mr, Goodwin. Well, there are gradations, althounh I do

think that many of the activities against, say, someone like

Allande or others are equally targetted in Latin American

countrins and not just general confliet or the killing of

particular do Mexican, of course, traditionally go out and

shoot down loadera of new querrilla groups or insurgents, but

not nocessarily with our guns.

The Chalrman, But in any event you're not testifying hare

to your cartain knowledge the United States government participa

tad in an assassination attempt or assistiny in an assassina-

tion attompt --

Mr. Goodwin. No,

I don'e have any deep knowledge of that

subject, what was the natural end consequence of our acte.

In any event, I do want to return to this.

This was -- clearly Prosident Kennedy was much closer to

yours.

1r. Schwarz. After the Trujillo assassination took, place.

President Kennedy was in Parla and as one of the documants wa

1o0ked at indicatas, there was a meating at which Vice Prostient;

Johnson was Intorasted in finding out what had happened and

You

had a rovlow of this, and discussed in that revlow that tha

weapons had buen passed, the small arms and the machino guna

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 58

por

Prora (Aras 2971

1

6

9

10

11

1?.

14 1

15

16.

il

1k:

1'

2'!

*: 1

24

21

TOP SECRET

55

hadn't bean passed and the ass

eination occurred.

Now, after that revlaw, ware any stops taken to make, as

a matter of more general, governmental polley, the policy which

1s expressed in the telegram you drafted at President Kennedy'

instruction?

Mr. Goodwin. Not to my knowlerige.

(A brief racess was taken.)

Tha Chairman, Do you have any more questiona?

Mr, Schwarz. I don't have any more questions.

The Chairman. Do you have any other matters that you

can toll us about the Trujillo assassination for our enliahten-

ment?

Mr. Goodwin. On the assassination?

The Chairman. On the assassination.

Mr. Goodwin. I don't think so, but let me read through

all of this, and when I come back the noxt time, I might have

something olse, if I can find anything else in charo -- i do

think this 1a pretty complate.

The Chairman. He will expect to hear you again garly next

weak, on the Cuban phase of your testimony.

Hr. Goodwin. And Duvallier.

Tha Chairman. Mr. Dennin, thay've been ln all nighe,

would lika to ask two quustiors.

Mr. Dannin. Hall, when you said there ware no more

questions, I juat salsad the possibility and you digcussed it

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 59

ристь (Auto 202).

mangor. D.E. 20003

TOP SECRET

1

2

3

4

6

9

10

1:

1::

13.

14

16,

17

1t:

i: =

!!!

2!.

about mestings hold alter the assassination back in washington

Whan Mr. Dearborn came back as well as those maatings hald

aftor the assassination bofore he came back, at which the

wholo matter was discussod, initially with Vicy President

Johnson presiding and ultimataly, the last one, with President

Kennedy.

Mr. roodwin. That's right. la had, of course, a serlas

of amergancies, We had an amergency mesting, and cabled tho

Prasident who was in Paris, and the firat matter on our mind

was how to keep Ramios Trujillo, who was the son of trujillo,

from taking over, and we didn't know where he was, at first.

It took us awhile to find out that he was in Parls, which ar

least indicatad, Senator, that if they were planning de, le

wasn't done in a vary comprahanalva fashion, and we lound ha

was in Paris and we wantad to stop him from returning, to

dotain him, but 1t was too late. By the time we found out, he

had already chartered an Air France Jet and was on his way to

Cuidad Trujillo, and I bellove thore was some affort made to

bluff him off by sending messages to the plane in flight,

diverting it to some Amarican airport, but ho didn't do that.

and he landed and took over. And I think the principal aim of

our policy from that poirt on was how to get him and his uncle.

Hoctor - and I forget the other fellow's name -- out of there

so that tho kind of moderato government that we wanted could

be installerl.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 60

4, 50€

r.

r.

80. ag9rn, D.C 50001

2

3

6

8

10

11

12

1?.

14

1'7

1!

20

27'

21

NAva

TOP SECRET

57

And John Martin was sant down to talk to him and to make

various inducements like he could take his money out, lt was

discussed that 1f he would laave peaceably, but what finally

happened was when McNamara moved the fleet in over the horizon

and an Air Force Genoral bombed the palaco, that was the and.

he got on his boat and lott.

The Chairman, Mir Force Caneral?

Mr. Goodwin. A Dominican Air Force General.

lla dacided that was an sasler targot than the American

float.

The Charman. Has the bombing dono at our Instruction?

M5. Goodwin. No, I don't ballave so.

I was trying to

Iamambor that, but I don't balleva 'it was. As I ranember,

It was quite a surprise to us that this fallow harl taken the

initiative. The moving of the fleet was intonded as sort of

a threat that 1f thay didn't get out we might come in and dut

them, There was no, howaver, no, at that point, no country

attempted to do that, just

to scars then, And the flaet was

actually cheared in

the Dominican Republic, a very rate

occasion.

But this Mir Force Canaral did, and then ha tried to make

himself dictator and two of his own officors arrustad him. They

all had beon trained in Amarican military achools.

Mr. Schwarz. To complete tha racord on the rasponse to

the talesram wo had Dearborn's raaction., le will read into

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 61

• ¿abras 7073

D6 70002

!

1

6

7

9

10

11

12

1?.

1 4

1r.

•1%

18

:::

TOP SECRET

58

=—:

the record the cable back from the CIA Chief of station in

response to the telegram. Me. Goodwin drafted.

Assume -- refarenca l, that's the telenram, "Final word!

on present policy in which KUDARX" … that's CIl -- "work here

must ba based. Jara 2 and Para 5, that reference, are for

practical purposes retraat from previous policy. lowever.

Headquartors aware extent to which ODYOKE" that is, the linited

States --"already associnted with ENsLEw)

_- that le the

assassination of trufillo, - "It wa are to at loast try cover

up tracks' XUARK personnel Airoctly Involved in Trustay

preparationa must be withdrawn now."

I don't know if that marita comment or not.

it just

happons to be how it was interpretted hy cin.

Mr. Goodwin. I think It'a accurate and it also raflecte

Dearborn's own disappointment that

Mr. Schwaiz. CIA.

Mr. Goodwin. CIn's disappointment, which is understandable.

The Chairman.

Any further quastions?

Senator Tower?

Mr. Smothors?

Mr. smothers. Mr. Chairman, l'd rather walt till the return

of the witness.

The Chairman. Yos.

Lot's make cartain that Mr. Goodwin has an opportunity to

most with the staff so that the portinent documents that will

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 62

5

430 Ford Strats, § 1- 1005-981m, DE.80008

1

2.

3

4

6

7

10

11

12.

13

14

i es

19

4: 1

OR SECRET

59

up in connaction with our interrogation on Castro vill be

ravlawed. Na're not intorested in any kind of entrapment. Ha

want you to be fully awara of whatevar documentation we have

so you can help enlighton us of your underatanding of the

policy at the time.

Mr. Goodwin. And whatever I bring I can give to you and

then duplicate it.

Mr. Schwarz. Well, ahall we plan, for safety, on the

stall seeing you on Wednesday morning and having your testimony

Hednasday altarnoon, or could you ba here by Tuesday?

Mr. Goodwin.

Hall, since I'm going to Rumford, Maine and

gatting the thinga out, I think it will be safer Nodnesday,

that's not too inconvenient.

The Chairman. Wednesday?

All right. Thank you very much.

(whereupon,. at 6135 o'clock p.m., the hearing was recessed

to reconvene at -8130 o'clock a.m., Friday, July 11, 1975.)

TOP SECRET

---

