# 157-10011-10035

## Page 1

157-10011-10035

Date: 07/26/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10035

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO : DEPUTY CHIEF, OPERATIONS STAFF

TITLE :

REVIEW OF AGENCY HOLDINGS REGARDING PHOTOGRAPH OF INDIVIDUAL

DATE : 05/02/75

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :

REVIEW OF AGENCY HOLDINGS REGARDING PHOTOGRAPH OF

UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUAL IN MEXICO CITY PUBLISHED BY THE

WARREN COMMISSION

REFERENCE: LETTER DATED 15 APRIL 1975 BY BELIN TO KNOCHE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/29/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

SSCI Box 352

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

DooId: 32203803

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

had indicated in writing to Chief, CIOPS, that he has no

objection for Mr. Belin to do whatever is desired with

these photographs at this time.

Mr. Fensterwald in 1971 - 1972 was actually shown, by

Mr. Houston during a visit to the Agency, two of the

twelve photographs, other than the one already published

in the Warren Commission report. (It is these two.that

he has published in The New York Review of Books article

which Mr. Belin attaches: to his memorandum.)

7. It seems to me that whoever makes a decision on

whether the entire matter can be fully disclosed at this

time should bear in mind that a subsidiary decision must

de

also be made, i.e.,' whether to crop of otherwise fuzz up

the background of the photographs or, alternatively, to

publish the entire run of. the photographs for the first

time without taking out the background. Obviously, none

of these questions apply to the passage of this material

to Mr. Belin and the Rockefeller Commission itself.

think they should see the entire documentation as it

stands.

Perhaps after that, the question of what could

be discussed and the question of "how?" and "how much?"

could be taken up with Mr. Belin himself. My personal

recommendation is that the more we can say about this

matter in a fully open and final manner, the better off

we will be as an Agency.

But it is my understanding

that there are still sensitive aspects deriving from the

fact that the operation which produced the photographs

land as a consequence

publication at this time would create additional problems

at that level in Mexico. Also, it should be noted that

the Ambassador, according to Win Scott's memorandum to

J.C. King on 22 November 1963 (see Item 8 in the backup

documentation), allegedly played a direct role in the

decision to put the photographs into the hands of the FBI

the not be anyone tested about as tape*

at any time in the past nor have we had any discussions

with the State Department about that aspect of the matter.

IDEN 32

Attachments: -

as stated

3

SECRET

AW 50955 DocId:32203803 Page 2

---

