157-10011-10006)

@ IDENTIFICATION FORM ; |

R

AGENC

INDEX

ASTRO
PERA

DOCUMENT TYPE :,
LASSIFICATION : T

Cc
c

AGENCY :
RECCGRD NUMBER :

CORDS SERIES

YY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:

ITLE :
CARDS

DATE :
PAGES :

SUBJECTS :
TION MONGOOSE

RESTRICTIONS :
URRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

Box 1

: COMMENTS :
39, Book

2 of 3,

OF =
paisa
Pages, |

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

AGENCY INFORMATION

SSCIA
157-10011-10006

SSCIA
[R]
[R]
[R]
06/00/75
495
[R]
[R]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
REFERRED

P

09/29/93

Index Cards, June/July 1975 . :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 Docld:32203774 Page 1


Z ebeaq PLLEOTZE!PIOOG so6os AK

GA HAS NO OBJECTION Ti
DECLASSIFICATION ANDI

RELEASE OF THis
SAN ee 'S OOCUMENT

6-4- ‘e
Me)

PERSONS/ENTITIES : paves:  t CATEGORIES: ad
Sam Gold 7 Dr. Edward Gunn i

ptember 25, 1961 Castro

OCCURRENCE Tn discussing the possible methods of accomplishing the mission, Sam
Gold suggested that they not resort to firearms, but eat“if he could be furnished with '
some type of potent pill that could be placed in “castro! s food or drink. Sam indicated
that he has a prospective nominee in the person of Juan Orta, a Cuban official, who had
been receiving back payments from the gambling interests who still had access to Castro,
and was in a financial bind. Cormelius Roosevelt, Chief, TSD was cosulted and assigned
MPr. Raymond : ‘Tre igito develop a pill that had the elements of rapid solubility, high

nond, Trerel
~~ ~~lethal~content, and=Tittle-or-no-traceability. Six of these items were produced-and

after being checked out for their effectiveness by Dr. Edward M. Gunn, ‘three pills were
ultimately turned over to Sam for the mission. Neither TSD nor Dr. Gunn was briefed on

the ultimate use of the pills. . _
DE GARRET
i ha
ME? FA ARTES aA a

CIA Justice File R-153 Memorandum by Howard J. Osbo
to Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, Subj: Robert A. Maheu
dates r]yne 24, 1966.

SOURCE: STAPF:

Rhea

DATE; July 1, 1975


€ abed FLLEOZTE'PIO0d Sce0s AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED’ °
G-4- AE

aye)

’ PERSONS/ENTITIFS: DATES: CATEGORIES:

Oct. 6, 1960 Special Group
MONGOOSE
Presidential Authorization

oe : ; Gard 3 of F
OCCURRENCE: (cont)

includingsom in this group and that we would talk informally
tol bout it. He emphasized that he was asking for no
Special Group’ approval at this time in this specific connection."

SOURCE: STAFF:

: Minutes of Special Group meeting October 6, 1960 DATE: Bob Kelley
FILE: Cage ~~ June 29, 1975


‘F ahead PFLLEDSZE:PIO0CG CS60c AH

AS NO OBJECTION TO
CAT ASSIFICATION ANDIOR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUM
AS SAN ITIZED lew
G44
We

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
it __ j Dec. 5, 1960 Mongoose
Péter Grace Special Group

OCCURRENCE:

. (fhe. Special Group di
jisandga ondary s cc paHgene CaUaRS :
(2) a proposal to survey the possibility of establishing a strike
ase in Nicaragua; (3) the necessity for the Defense Department to supply 38 military

men to CIA. "Mr. Douglas questioned whether the present: concept of 600 or 700

Cubans is any longer practicable. He said that it had been his understanding that
the~current thinking contemplated-figures-more on the order-of 3,000." Mr. ~Barnes---——
replied that the CIA believes what is required is enough individuals to serve as

a rallying point for the anti-Castro elements in Cuba and thus 600 is as useful as

3,000. The CIA justified the request for 38 military men because it now believed

it was necessary to train the Cubans in infantry tactics involved in a defense, in
addition to the guerrilla warfare training previously contemplated.

SOURCE:

B Bob Kelley

FILE:

DATE; June 29, 1975


g abeq . PLLEOZZE! PIO0g SG60c AH

@ | @

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION
DECLASSIFICATION aaron

RELEASE OF THIS.
AS SANITIZED OOCUMENT

6-4-4944 an
oda)

TOP_ SECRET

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
GUNN,..Dr. Edwardy““”
RAGA gaa)

oe.

ew

DATES: | CATEGORIES:
'
'

RAY, CUBA
TSD : meragehagsciears)
mohhe Heh er i
OCCURRENCE: Uae ey a . “EYCARD 1 of 2

DR. EDWARD GUNN, Chief, Operations Division, Office of

Medical Services, has a notation that on 16 August 1960,

he received:'a box of Cuban cigars to be treated with a ,
’ lethal material. (21). He understood them to be CASTRO's —_
favorite brand. (21). .GUNN's notes show that within the

Next month he contacted@aySewewelmigi of TSD, (Sept. 6,

1960) and gave him the box of Cigars (21). cute er ey

recalls "that he did contaminate a full box of 50 cigars
with Botulinum Toxin, a virulent poison," (21) which would
kill the intend victim upon merely putting it in the
mouth, fig S) notes showed delivery of the box on™

ty eres
pial » 1961, although they do not indicate to whom.

>. an hope remem vo ee STS
BILE: IG {ccpe rt } | aa. I

alo



(9 efed. FLLEOZZTE:PIOOG GoE6eOS AH

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES:
Git,
(See the 13 names listed below) FEB, , Mel
- se CALPRE Lim AT: )

1. ALLEN DULLES, DCI 10.
2. GEN. C. P. CABELL, DDCI : 1.
3._. RICHARD BISSELL, DD/P _ —
4, SHEFFIELD EDWARDS, D/Security ~~~
5. JAMES O'CONNELL, Office of Security,

the case officer
6. J. D. ESTERLINE, Chief, WH/4 12.
7
8
9

CORNELIUS ,ROQSEVELT, Chief, TSD 13.
RO WOLCHMERe” Chemical Division, TSD

QGCURRENCE’S “The I.G. REPORT identified the following persons who knew, in late 1960
or early 1961, of the PHASE I plan to assassinate CASTRO:
WILLIAM HARVEY, Chief, FI/D

EDWARD GUNN, Chief, Operations Division, Medical Services ~

CATEGORIES: TOP SECRET

(Card 0)

aren fee

CUBA - PHASE T

SIDNEY GOTTLIEB, Special Assistant to
the DD/P (GOTTLIEB's name was en-
countered repeatedly “in this “inquiry;
but he denies knowing of the opera-
‘tion in 1960-61. )

ROBERT BANNERMAN, DD/Security

J. C. KING, Chief, WH Division (He too
denies knowing of the operation at

the time.)

STAFF? Baron

I.G. REPORT 1967, pp. 34-35

DATE: — 28.6.75


£ abed PLLEOZZE:PI900 GsEeoc AH

JA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
CESLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANIT! hin
il- as

PERSONS/ENTITIES: patrs: | CATEGORIES: ro
Sam Gold Dr. Edward Gunn i

ptember 25, 1961 Castro

OCCURRENCE ?In discussing the possible methods of accomplishing the mission, Sam
Gold suggested that they not resort to firearms, but ‘takt“if he could be fumished with '
some type of potent pill that could be placed in Castro's food or drink. Sam indicated —
that he has a prospective nominee in the person of Juan Orta, a Cuban official, who had
been receiving back payments from the gambling interests who still had access to Castro,
and was in a financial bind. Cornelius Roosevelt, Chief, TSD was consulted and assigned
PDE Raymon aaRS einer to develop a pill that had the elements of rapid solubility, high

ethalcontéent, and“Tittle or no traceability. Six of these items were produced and
after being checked out for their effectiveness by Dr. Edward M. Gunn, ‘three pills were
ultimately turned over to Sam for the mission. Neither TSD nor Dr. Gunn was briefed on
the ultimate use of the pills.

TOP SECRET

CIA Justice File R-153 Memorandum by Howard J. Osborh
to Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, Subj: Robert A. Maheu

dated ;fune 24, 1966. DATE; July 1, 1975

SOURCE: STAFF?

Rhea


8 abeaq PFLLEOSZEPIO0G so6oc AH

DATES:

S/ENTITIES:

CATEGORIES :
“I Samuel HALPERN

i
Nov. 20, 1963 |

AMLASH
Dr. Edward GUNN

Castro

OCCURRENCE:

é ‘greported that although AMLASH had wanted "a high-powered, silenced rifle
with an effective range of hundreds or thousands of yards," (92) he decided finally
that he knew, as a Doctor of Medicine, that "we could devise some technical means

of doing the job that would not automatically cause him to lose his own life in
the try." (92) .

Samuel HALPERN andf jrequested assistance from Dr. Edward GUNN of the CIA’ 7
Office of Medical Sérvices. (92) On Nov. 20, 1963, they told GUNN that "the
device for administering the poison (a ball point pen rigged as a hypodermic syringe)
had to be ready in time for fo catch a plane at noon the next day." (93)

The next day GUNN delivered t ka pen capable of injecting a poisonous
insecticide known as “black leaf 40". (92-93)

SOURCE; STAFF;

IG REPORT 1 F Baron

FILE:

DATE: T/L/75


6 abeg PLLEoeze :PIO0g Sc60S BH

--—""We -interviewed everyoné whom we could-identify as likely to be ee

ECTION TO

A)
CIAHAS NO OB ANDIOR
AEIGATION
DEC OF THIS DOCUMENT
ASSANITIZED = gy,
peat
PERSONS/ENTI’ SES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
elms t
Hervey, Won. AZ 5/5/04 / CASTRO
Gunn, Dr. Calwa |
: - oy Fe. :
ago. iki “eThe memorandum of April 25, 1967 which introduces the IG's Report

RENCE On" assassination plotting in relation to FIDEL CASTRO indicates
that the only written records which served as a basis for the IG
Report ‘were: Notes of William Harvey; Records of Dr, Edward, Gunn
(Office of Medical Services; and, brief records of fig | ‘
fof TSD). Some operational files were also used, *

For the most part, the Inspector General's office reliea upoi -

information given to us orally by people who's memories are fogged

by time, (1)

OCCU

knowledgeable, with the exceptions of MR. DULLES and GENERAL CABELL." (2)

A complete list of the interviewees is attached to the 1G Report
at Tab A, "If there are significant innaccuracies in the Report

they are most likely to occur in faulty ordering of the sequence
of events." (2). ;

SOURCE:

1G Report lag _



OT ehea FLLEOSTE:PIOOCG Go6OS AH

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

l _ Kennedy, Robert

Bissell HALPERN
OCCURRENCE:

Ualpern testified that ij i L861 he attended a meeting with
Bissell and as the Branch Chief (S). The
meeting occured if the middtTé of Nete of 1961. Missell state! at the
meeting that he had recently "been chewed out in the cabinet room of
the White House by both the President and the Attorney General for
as he put it, si i anything about petting

DATES: CATEGORIES:

rae 1961

Co feber,

Castro

Tid OF CAStF id the Cast re _ ‘ to hotht ]
and to moe faa" ¢ to accomplish that end
Malvern testified that no limitations were put on the te t rid of",

Nothing was forbidden (8). The meetine involved oniv eoneral discussions
me not tactics,

SOURCE:
oe fhea
FILE: P/V/75



ET abea FLLEOSZE:PIO0G GCeeds AH

Bisse
“OCCURRENCE :

E OF AND,
as SAN) Tizep 'S OcUK
Y~¢g ¥ 2 %

PERSONS/ENTITIES: " DATES: CATEGORIES:
Net 196) Castro

Ha torn Cen Lansdale

Hclperas
Shortly after ae meetine-with Rissell, lapern. and | were introduced
to Gen Lansdale who was the new Chief ‘of Operations—roersin cffart to re-
nove HAthe Castro revime. The initial meetine was concerned with only
oreanizational matters. :

SOURCE:

alnern 6/18/75 Mea

4
c
rc]

T/V/TS



Zt aiea -PLLeozze:PIO0G «=Gceos AN

OCCURRENCE:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

HAY~9% 0 fee

PERSONS/ENTITIES:— DATES: | CATEGORIES: :

TALVeY Dec 1901 H Castro
Ma ae 7
Nelms MCCONE

(fsometime in Bec of 1961, described to Nalpern a mectine at the
office in which “cCone had stated that Melis would hene forth "be his man on

Cuba.’ C1 »? Ceemetol Halpern that He nad no inkting that he jwoule be

appointed heat or the Cuban operations before this meeting (13). Sonetine
artar meeting lielms cane to office, chekced into the ore: ization

director's

of operations Wists Prt Cuba would he a separate acti Viti:
“no part .

POneer

SOURCE: STAPF e
Halpern 6/18/75 Raca

| PILE: pare: — 7/1/75


‘et shea PLLEOZTE:PIOCG §Ge60s AN

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
FITZGERALD, Desmond

DATES: CATEGORIES:

HALPE!

Early 1963 CASTRO

DESMOND FITZGERALD originated a scheme to assassinate CASTRO: ''The idea
was to taken an unusually spectacular sea shell that would be certain to catch
CASTRO's eye, load it with an explosive triggerjto blow when the shell was lifted

>

and submerge it in.an area where CASTRO often.went skin diving." (77).
FITZGERALD explored this idea at several sessions with SAM HALPERN and@iRugigry
“CHE. | but it was ultimately dismissed as impractical. (77). ~
DISCOVERY LEADS: Note: There is no indication that FITZGERALD told any-
one above him in the CIA hierarchy of. this plan.

SOURCE: IG REPORT, 1967

2 ER
Boer

FILE: 6/29/75



FT abed FLLEOTTE:PIOVG CGEe0s AH

~-—~—--Samuel HALPERN anda@fS AN CHEZ

PERSONS/ENTITIES : DATES: SAnBOORIES:
SSANGHEZ EZ] Samuel HALPERN — wees

Nov. 20, 1963

Dr. Edward GUNN Castro

Zjreported that although AMLASH had wanted "a high-powered, silenced rifle
n effective range of hundreds or thousands of yards," (92) he decided finally
that he knew, as a Doctor of Medicine, that "we could devise some technical means

of doing the job that would not automatically cause him to lose his own life in
the try." (92)

wi

equested -assistance. from Dr.. Edward GUNN of the CIA--

Office of Medical ‘Ser

(92) On Nov. 20, 1963, they told GUNN that "the
device for administering

(a ball point pen rigged as a hypodermic syringe)
catch a plane at noon the next day." (93)
a pen capable of injecting a poisonous

SOURCE: STAPF:
Tl IG REPORT 1 96g oO F Baron
FILE: pave: = 7/1/75


GT abed FLLEOZTE:PIO0Gd GoeOs BH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION 7
PE EAS IFICATION AND/OR
THIS Di
AS SANITIZE CCUMENT
th~W-4

nC)

_
TOP SECRET
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

KING, J. C. HArue

£zG REPART + ErPwARDS May 23, 1967 CASTRO
BISSELL
HALPERIN A

OCCURRENCE:

The following sources of information were used in preparing the IG REPORT of
1967: (1) Files: Furnished for review by the Director of Security, the Deputy
Director for Support, the General Counsel, the Legislative Counsel, the Chief of

WH_Division, and by Col. J. C. KING, former Chief of WH Division. Also, the
Director of Central Reference furnished biographic files and intelligence publi-
cations. (2) Interviews: Desmond Fitzgerald, Sam Halpern, fijmuee’ Hele 5 »C.
King, Alfonso Rodriguez, J. D. Esterline, Edward Gunn, Howard Osborn, James
O'Connell, Sidney Gottlieb, Sheffield Edwards, Richard Bissell, Lawrence Houston,
RyMireicinen? Jo n_Wan ARO Witian Harvey, Cornelius Roosevelt,
Robert Bannermank} ard Ober.

STAFF? Baron

DATE: 7/2/75


LT abed FLLEOZTEPIO0G GoeOs BH

-s\0N 19
QBsecTion
CAAHAS ND caTiON ANDO
& DEOLASS Gy ris DOOM
| | WS SANITIZE

yet

DATES: | CATEGORIES:

June 27, 1962; Special Group Augmented
s™=$902 MONGOOSE

PERSONS/ENTITIFS:

SPECIAL GROUP AUGMENTED, MONGOOSE,
CTANSDALED TAYLOR, JOHNSON, GIL-

PATRICK, MCCONE, RFK, LEMNITZER alifez
Haris Catt é [ri-23 ke 2
OCCURRENCE: One infiltration team introduced into Oriente Province on June 4 and 5S, 1962

reported that Cuban security measures made operations in that area difficult. Raul

Castro on June 25 reported that the four had been captured and two had been executed, but
to this date the report is not accepted as fact. June 21-22, 1962 a Marine operation

to emplace a cache of arms and demolitions was accomplished without incident. The defector,
ARGiem has begun to provide names of other Cuban G-2 personnel abroad. Effective July 1,

1062 Brig. Gen. B.T. Harris, U.S: Abmy will replace Brig. Gen. Craig as DOD operations
representative.

a pe

eer eo ey f
SOURCE: Memorandum for the Special Group Augmented STARE:
from Lansdale re: Operation MONGOOSE, June 27, 1962 (00399- di Genova
00400) _ | parE:

FILE: July 1, 1975


8 ahed FLLE0eTE:PIOOd Gc6Oc HH

0
OBIE! JON T
CU TASSIFICATION ANO/OR
RELEASE fF THIS
AS SAMITIZED aa
pew Ot
PERSONS/ENTITIFS: DATES: CATEGORIES:
SPECIAL GROUP AUGMENTED, MONGOOSE, j June 27, 1962 | Special Group Augmented
TA TAYLOR, JOHNSON, GIL- See P 2 F54 2 MONGOOSE
PA K, MCCONE, RFK, LEMNITZER difer
Haeris/ Cra éfrs-o3 ox |

OCCURRENCE: One infiltration team introduced into Oriente Province on June 4 and 5, 1962
reported that Cuban security measures made operations in. that area difficult. Raul
Castro on June 25 reported that the four had been captured and two had been executed, but
to this date the report is not accepted as fact. June 21-22, 1962 a Marine operation

to emplace a cache of arms and demolitions was accomplished without incident. The defector,
GOT nas begun to provide names. of. other Cuban G-2 personnel. abroad.  Effective-

1962 Brig. Gen. B.T. Harris, U.S. Almy will replace Brig. Gen. Craig as DOD o
representative. Trae nae mean ere mcs tater es ae pe

v

ape go es ‘

SOURCE: Memorandum for the Special Group Augmented STAFF:

from Lansdale re: Operation MONGOOSE, June 27, 1962 (00399- di Genova
00400) DATE:

FILE:

July 1, 1975


.6T a68ed  ELLEOZZE'PIIOCG ss60cg BH

CIAHAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

i na

L Me)

PERSONS/ENTJITIFS: DATES: CATEGORIES:
HARVEY, William!
Hedteeembees] ,

EXECUTIVE ACTION

OCCURRENCE:

WARVEY testified that QJ.Win was_an agent that he considered for possible use and used for a
Limited period through ({(RHOEDESEEYERA for the spotting of individuals with criminal and under-

world connections in Burd or possible multipurpose use, none of whom were ever advised of
the use. (50) Or were ever used.
When—HARVEY-was-asked..if-the—mul-tipurpose—use—ineluded-assassination, -he--stated—that—it

he had ever been directly ordered to perform an assassination, he would have considered the
neople spotted by &.J.Win as possibilities. (50) He testified that before someone would have
actually been approached to carry out that operation, there would have been a lone period of
assessment and cross checks. As far as he knew, the particular spotting mechanism never went

Chat far. So far as HARVEY could recall K.J.Win was used only once in connection with an opera-_
tion in the Conmo, which was not an assassination operation. (51)

SOURCE: HARVEY TESTIMONY

prArr: Rhea

DATE: 20.6.75
FILE: 20-6.75


oz abhea FLLEOTZE:PIOOG GoeOs AH

AS NO OBJECTION TO

CIA 1ON AND/OR
tect
ASSANITIZED =.
u-y-at
Ao)
G) @

PERSONS/ENTITIFS: DATES:

Nelms, Richar
llarvey, ad

CATEGORIES:

Castro

OCCURRENCE: Helms testified that he does not reeall whether he selected
Narvey to head the Cuban operation, but thet he did certainly approve Iarvey's
selection. Prior to receiving the commitment Uarvey had been in charge of a

staff in_the foreign intcllipence staff whose function was to mount onerations
against

SOURCE:

Helms 6/13/75 Rhea

FILE: — 6/28/75



Te ahed FLLEOZTE:PIO0G GoeOs AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION 10
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THiS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED
(hY-a% Bee
Ww |
(ay) cc)

PERSONS/ENTITIES: ES: CATEGORIES:
HARVEY, William

OCCURRENCE; Dhaba i

HARVEY testified that during World War II he worked on counteresp ionage matters with the FBI,
having entered the Bureau as a Special Agent in 1940. He continued in that job until 1947,
when he Joined the CIA as the head of the Soviet Intelligence Branch. Between 19/17 and 1952,

. he worked on Soviet counterespionage and special operations in the Department of Plans. Be—
~ tween—1952-and 1959, he was in Berlin ast or the CIA. He was instrumental_in

the Berlin tunnel operation. In 1959, he“bécameChre OF
vision, D. This js.tthe Division which is resnonsih FB

tlons-of Starr p/
|

poreten Intellinence Staff Di-

SOURCE? “HARVEY TESTIMONY, June 25, 1975, pp. 5-9 STAPF? Rhea

DATE? 30.6.75



fe 3hed FLLEOZZEPIO0d Gce0s AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED-
i 14-94%

awe)

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES:
HARVEY, William

CATEGORIES:
(SDOMEIE susriy LUMUMBA

RTSSELL. Ri¢hard

OCCURRENCE?

20") me came to him and said that he had been approached oy RICHARD BISSE IL, nine
was then the Deputy Director of Plans (DD/P) to undertake an operation in the Coneo, one
of the objectives of which was the elimination of PATRICE LUMUMBA. HARVEY testified that

q TPONNETEStold him that he had declined to undertake this assignment.

HARVEY testified that he subsequently had a conversation with BISSMLL, in which BISSELL
stated that he had requested {O'DONNELL 3to undertake such an operation. (9-10)

HARVEY testified that he did not know about any steps undertaken on behalf of the Agency
in connection with any proposals to eliminate LUMUMBA. (10)

SOURCE: HARVEY TESTIMONY, June 25, 1975 (pp. 9-10)

FILE:



€@ shed FLLEOZTE:PIO0d Gc6Oc MH

AS NO OBJECTION TO.
DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUM!

ASSANITIZED opp
~ U~- 4
ud ane

CATEGORIES: :
EXECUTIVE ACTION P

dan Ab 0/¢ Ef
OCCURRENCE: Tarvey was asked about notes written TES ELVeT,
meeting in January of 1961, concerning Executive Action. One portion“of the notes
stated, "Be within KUBARK, one focal point for control, search, training, case
officering, etc. -- GDP authority in this focal point mandatory. DCI officially :
advised?" (57) Harvey testified that he did not know whether the DCI was advised,.
that he had been asked to create a capability for Executive Action and had taken
certain steps ta have an assessment of assets in that connection. (57) Harvey
clarified that the wording of the memo probably meant that consideration should be ?
---given to the question of how, whether and under what circumstances the DCI should be

officially advised of his program, "I want to make it clear that this in no way
means he should be advised. He should not be advised, he should never be advised,
he should always be advised." (59). Ile testified that this matter would have been
brought up again at any time th@Peweiriye Aetionalugiect Jed to specific targeting
or specific operation or specif fF Benen QPL aA Bi Nost (59)
SOME BE, ppg i

Er HARVEY TESTIMONY, Jtne 4g, PP e a STARTS Rhea

FILE:

DATE: 6/30/75


FZ eed .FLLEOZTE:PIOCG GS60S AN

EON <Oa
OBEY, ano!
on extol pou
DeOre oF
wee,
ES) yt (2)
(Ir wo BY
XG
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: | CATEGORIES: —
HARVEY V Jan 26, 1961 | EXECUTIVE ACTION
2e Rife

OCCURRENCE:

Harvey" s hadwritten notes entitled Project arriffle (exhibit 1) state "ébjectives*,

The objectis is

remven
Yevision, Ao listing or targets woul be valid for the duration

of the project. Specific operations will be mounted on the basis of need and

opportunity. “Ehe Project will be conducted by division PB with assistance fran area-———-~—-—------ --

divisions and stations as needed.” (exhibht 1)

Harvey testified that his notes didnot cite assassination or assassination capability as
an objective of project Zrriffle. However,assassination was a contemplated purpose of the
project. If an_agent_had_been recruited for assassination he would have been recruited
under the cov l (49)>

SOURCE: 7 STAFF:
Harvey 6/25/75 Rhea

FILE: : DATE: 6/30/75



Gt ehed FLLEOSTE:PIOCd CeEe0s AH

NO OBJECTION TO,

CIAHAS ‘AND/OR
DECLASSIEC TE QCUMENT

Rs santzeD oa
ee TO YQ
Cie)
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
/ Jan 26, 1961 EXECUTIVE ACTION
HARVEY

20 RAW
OCCURRENCE:

The notes in Harvey's handwriting entitled Project Zrriffle state "3. Background:
response to the increasing requirements for the operational procurement off |
| Hivision’D in 1960 began spotting of agent assets aS"@
Vvelépnental activT ‘ing the same period requirements frofSNs: wbecame more
refined and in many respects more sentative because most agencies“ate- not equipped
to conduct this type of operation, and because of the desirability to completely centralize

control over this entire effort, it was détémmined that division d which was the closest
touch with -NSAVon procurement requirements, could best conduct the activity. The spotting
activity has“riow advanced far enough to justify removing from the OOA category. (exhibit
1, page 1 - 2)

SOURCE: STAFF:

Harvey 6/25/75 Rh
FILE: ey 6/25/ DATE: <a

6/30/75


9% efea. PLEEOTTE:PIO0G Gs6eOs AH

CIA HAS NO.OBJECTION TO

RECESS FICATION AND/OR
THIS DOC

AS SANITIZED OMENT

He 4-9"

“IN

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
ae Hakedan

DATES: CATEGORIES:

26 Jan. 1961 EXECUTIVE ACTION = on

VERY about the EXECUTIVE ACTION
project on January 26, 1961, after HARVEY and BISSELI: 7 had already discussed the matter. (52).
HARVEY testified that *he learned early in the operation that BISSELL had discussed the ques—
tion of assassination withfARNOLD?SEVERT

SOURCE:

HARVEY TESTIMONY, June 25, 1975, p. 52


£2 a6ed FLLEOZTE:PIO0Gd GoeOs BH

1A HAS NO OBJECTION TO
SE OLASSIFICATION AND/OA
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUM!
ASSANITIZED =a.
por FE ae )

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
a EXECUTIVE ACTION
1/26/61

CCURRENCE: Ilarvey testified that he had a conversation witha LVEF} about the
Executive Action Project on January 26, 1961, after Harvey and Biss' had alréady discussed
the matter (52). Harvey testified that he learned early in the operation that Bissell had
iliscussed the question of assassination with gama; ayers (52)

SOURCE: STAFF:

HARVEY TESTIMONY, June 25, 1975, p. 52 Rhea

7 on DATE: .
EMues — 6/30/75


ec abeg - PLLEOTTE PIO SG60c AH

“harcotics operation into the United States.—For aperiod of. a. year and a half he_was

CTION TO.
CIAHAS NO-OBJECTION
{CATION AN
DECLARE THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED be
ne
O®
PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:
HARVEY ™
K. G. WIN EXECUTIVE ACTION
ge bfto
OCCURRENCE:

Gee sete by the chief of station, Luxembourg , in connection with ee

contacted spyreatically by COS, Luxembourg, in behalf of the Bureau of Narcotics. . Files
of this Bureau reflect an excellent performance by K. G. Win. In October 1960:

K. G. Win annual salary $7,200 Hire of safe houses and other
Travel and OBS expenses for K. G. Win and automobile expenses $1,000
other agents and agent candidates $2,000 Total $14,700

Fees for services by and standby of agents and agent candidates $2,000
STAFF:

in-Srriffhe $2,666

(Hacvey-Exitibit 1, pages 1 - 3)

DATE: Rhea
FILE: Harvey 6/27/75 —
— 6/30/75


62 abe FLLEozze  PIOCT SG60c AH

CIA

DE ci AS NO og

feteasica Tih TION 79
Saiypy) THIS 1 D/Op
a vege Cy

OO)

CATEGORIES: ‘TOP SECRET

PERSONS/ENTITE DATES: 7
seal pe Eyecri ve ACTION 2 RRIFLE

BISSELL, Richard
HARVEY, William
TSF ES

H
}

CONGO

SETA Ey 7a
PSILVERF Arnoldy ah :
LUMUMBA, Patrice : : a

OCCURRENCE:

The EXECUTIVE ACTION program authorized by BISSELL and run by WILLIAM HARVEY "came to be known
as ZRRIFLE. Its principal asset was an agent, QJWIN, who had been recruited earlier by @ARNORDE?
SUBVER for use ina special operation in the Congo (the assassination of PATRICE LUMUMBA) to be

run byfJUSEIN-O'DONNEELS) @COLDONNELDLZmade a survey of the scene, decided he wanted no part in
that assassination attempt, and asked to be released -- which BISSELL ranted. y" (38)

NOTE: In the copy of the I.G. REPORT provided to the Committee, which was, according to
EARMAN's cover memorandum the ribbon copy, which was the only text of the report in existence ,q,
phrase in the above paragraph "(the assassination of PATRICE LUMUMBA)" was crossed out. S

BRECKENRIDGE indicated to the Committee that this phrase was crossed out by RICHARD HELMS when
he read the report. Why? a

SOURCE: I.G. REPORT 1967, p. 38 STAFF? Baron

FILE: DATE: 28.6.75


oe ahed FLLEOTTE:PII0d GoEeOs AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
" RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED
~Y-4¢€
we NE).
(ne)
PERSONS/ENTITIES: ; DATES: | CATEGORIFS:
BRECKINRINGE, SCOTT  a764 —_ cAsIm TT
-

HARVEY, WILLIAM. U-~ EXECUTIVE ACTION/ZRRIFLE

OCCURRENCE: Breckinridge testified that from his review of the Tiles of Project
ZRRIFLE, the "controliing character" (80) of the Project was to rather
than to develop the capability for assassination. (80)

Breckeinridge testified that on the face of the documents relating to Project
ZRRIFLE, the Project was only directed at The fact that it related
to developing the capability to assassinate came out in interviews with Willian

~Harveyo(81y~ 77 ee . : °

SOURCE: STAFF:

BRECKINRIDGE testimony, 6/2/75 “WALLACH
DATE:

FILE: =" 9/5/75


Te aheg PLLEOGTE*PIO0G Coeoc AH

AS NO OBJECTION TO

A
SIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED
eet
(l ce)

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
BISSELL, Richard GOTTLIEB, Sidney
HARVEY ="
IOUSE
=ArOLes

February 1961 1 EXECUTIVE ACTION /z, RIVE LE
(HARVEY 's = CASTRO

estimate) ‘ a ONE

the
BISSELL assigns to HARVEY / developing of “an EXECUTIVE ACTION capability, i.e.,
a general stand-by capability to carry out assassinations when required.'* (37)

“HARVEY's notes quote BISSELL as saying, 'The WHITE HOUSE has twice urmed me to create such
a capability.! BISSELL recalls discussing, the question of developing a general capability

with HARVEY." (37)

"HARVEY says that BISSELL had already discussed certain aspects of the problem with ARNON
SH eke nd.with: SIDNEY GOTTLIEB." (37-38).

ead LEZ
STAFF: Baron

(continued)

1967, pp. 37-38

SOURCE: 1.G. REPORT

PILE: 28.6.75


ze aheq FLLEOZTEPIOOG Ge60s AH

CIAHAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
“AS SANITIZED
UE WOE
i) @)
: CARD 2 of 27
- PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: cnnEGORTES: —
HELMS, Richard Ly 6 6/

OCCURRENCE: (continued from card 1)
HARVEY used(GEEVEin developing the EXECUTIVE ACTION capability (38).

pugs staves that
Sometime shortly after this initial meeting, and while HARVEY was still discussing the

oo  development_of EXECUTIVE ACTION with BISSELL, "he briefed Mr..HELMS fully on the general

concept but without mention of the then “on-going plan to assassinate CASTRO." (38)

ASG Be,

STAFF? Baron

“I.G. REPORT 1967, pp. 37-3

DATE:

28.6.75


€€ ahea “PLLEOTTE:PIO0G GG60S AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION ANO/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED a
il-4~ AF

()@)

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES: ‘Top SECRET
G6. ;
(See the 13 names listed below) FeB,, Mel fal ¢ . Ceara -)
CACORE Kim ATE) CUBR — PHASE I

ere ges TE

fa ear dad

xu |
Aye |
OSCURRENCES The I.G. REPORT identified the following persons who knew, in late 1960
or early 1961, of the PHASE I plan to assassinate CASTRO:

1. ALLEN DULLES, DCI 10. CWELLIAM HARVEY, Chief, FI/D
2. GEN. C. P. CABELL, DDCI . 11. SIDNEY GOTTLIEB, Special Assistant to
3... RICHARD BISSELL, DD/P © the DD/P (GOTTLIEB's name was en-
4. SHEFFIELD EDWARDS, D/Security ~~ countered repeatedly in-thts—inguiry;
5. JAMES O'CONNELL, Office of Security, but he denies knowing of the opera-
the case officer tion in 1960-61.)
6. J.D. ESTERLINE, Chief, WH/4 12. ROBERT BANNERMAN, DD/Security
. 7. CORNELTUS ROOSEVELT, Chief, TSD - 13. J.C. KING, Chief, WH Division (He too
8. RAY, TRETCHEGR;| Chemical Division, TSD denies knowinp, of the operation at
9. “EDWARD GUNN; “Chief, Operations Division, Medical Services the time. )

I.G. REPORT 1967, pp. 34-35 Baron

STAFF:

DATE: 28.6.75


Fe aHed FLLEOTSETPIO0G GoGo AN

SOURCE;

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

CATEGORIES: TOP SECRET
(See list of names below.)

CASTRO
GGPA - SYNDICATR/PHASE: IT ——
_ KNOWLEDGE OF PHASE IT

CARD 1 of 3

OCCURRENCE? “the list of persons with knowledge of PHASE II of the CASTRO ASSASSINATION
OPERATION differs from those who Imew of PHASE I. Those with knowledge of PHASE TI are:
1. RICHARD HELMS, DD/P 5.
cay WILLIAM HARVEY, Chief, Task Force W
3. JAMES O'CONNELL, Office of Security
(He knows that Harvey took over the
operation and delivered pills, arms, and
equipment--in April 1962. He- -does-not

J. C. KING, Chief, WH Division (He stated in
our interview with him that he knew that HARVEY
was having meetings with members of the gambling,
svenicate-< in 1962. )

HARVEY's deputy in 1962

Re at HARVEY was meetih® with
Pansters in Reno (sic) in the winter of 1962.)

know of developments after May 1962.)

4. SHEFTIELD E WARDS, D/Security (He 7. TED SHACKLEY, Chief, JMWAVE (He assisted
knows of the fact of the turnover to HARVEY in the delivery or arms and equipment to
HARVEY, but states he knows nothing of VARONA ‘in April 1962, but presumably did not lnow
developments thereafter. ) the identities of the recipients nor  (con't.)

STAFF: :

Baron

aaa r.G. REPORT i
FILE: AG i

DATE: 28.6.75

OF



Ge shed. FLLEOSTE:PIOVG CGEe0s AH

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

CATEGORIES:

(Same instruction as card 1.)

CARD 2 of 3

URRENCE:
SHACKLEY, cont: the purpose for which the 11. MACEO, ROSELLI's’ "Man"  (MACEO
material was fo be used.) probably knew there was a government
8. RAY-TREESCHLER) TSD @TREISCHLER'S par— connection, but may not have identified
ticipation was limited to furnishing the CIA as the agency.)

a ne ee pds -to-0' CONNELL-on -18_April_1962..) ee

9. ANTONIO VARONA, the Cuban exile leader
(He presumably was not aware of government.
sponsorship. )
10. VARONA'S SON-IN-LAW (He too was pre-
sumably. not aware of government's role.)

SOURCE:

FILE:


9£ ebed FLLEOZZE:PIO0G CC60G MH

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: } CATEGORIES:

1 me” Kennedy, Robert

Bissell HALPERN

OCCURRENCE:
Halpern tes 1961 he attended a meeting with
Bissell and vas the Branch Chief (8). The
meeting occured in the middle of Octe of 1961. Bissell state! at the
meeting that he had recently "been chewed out in the cabinet room of
the White Mouse by both the President and the Attorney General for
as_he put it, sitting on_his sand not doing anything about thine

Ree 1961

Ce feber,

Castro

rid of Cas ine. Wis orders to both
and to me“
Halvern tes

,and the Castro re
“to plan an operation to accomplish that end,” (3)

ified that no limitations were put on the term "set rid of",
Nothine was forbidden (8). The mectine involved only seneral Jiscussiens

and nat tactics.

SOURCE: STAFF :

Rhea

DATE: TAV/T5

FILE:


fe s6ed FLLEOTTE:PIOVG CGEeOs AH

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

C1 taney
Nalpern

Helis MCCONE
OCCURRENCE?
sometime in Dec of 1961, described to Nalpern a meetine at the director's
office in which McGone had stated that Melas wonld hencefort!

ch “be his man on
Cuba.’ (13) ee Natpern that Uelias had no inkling that he jwontd be
appointed heal GF the Cuban operations before this meeting (15). Sometine
atter the meeting Nelms cane to effice, chelced into the oreanization
a Pua WOW bean sepamate ac tity add.

DATES: CATEGORIES:

Dec 1961 Castro

STAPH:

Halpern 6/18/75

Apnea

FILE: DATE: T/VSTS


. 86 ahed FLLEOTTEPIIOOCG GoeOs AH

HAS NO OBJECTION TO
CE SLASSIFICATION ANDIOR
RELEASE OF THIS BOCUME

AS SANITIZED

ut Vp)

, PRRSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: | CATEGORIFS:
JIARVEY, LANSDALE June 19, 1962 | MONGOOSE
'
'

hoe 19) Fads a

OCCURRENCE: ry was agreed that Harvey was to work towards reaching a stage in the
interrogation of (Pedro “ROig,) the Cuban economic official who defected to Mexico.,where

he can be surfaced t6 Wiaké “public charges of Cuban Communist operations against Latin
American nations. Harvey was to generate a story from Cuban refugee sources that the
original Cardenas incident consisted of a demonstration concerning the shortage of food.
This was to cause ridicule of the Communist regime's use of MIGs,tanks and troops against

~ the unarmed people -of Cardenas; -'The-Cuban--source to- story-need not—await-your-determina-

tion of the true cause of the Cardenas demonstration."

‘ START:
SOURCE: Memorandum for William Harvey, CIA, from Lans- STARE:

dale, re: Impact Actions, 19 June 1962 (00395) di Genova
FILE:

DATE? July 1, 1975



6 96d FLLEOTTEPIOVG CGEOs AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED |

PERSONS/ENTITYES :
Sa

DATES:

July 10, 1962 | MONGOOSE
2)

sluneyedy396
Jaty-t>-t962-
Maynb62 |
Efforts were made to establish contact with[
rong Comminist nature of the

pan regime. According to MRSRa\smroundae eaktcros » she contacte and obtained
greement to provide intelligence on the Cuban political leadership and to work

CATEGORIES:

OCCURRENCE:

t

_ against the Cuban Conmunist regime, "short of engaging in activity w which might result in

direct personal harm

direct recruitment of {|  Jin"Mexicos=*=

STAFF:

SOURCE? ___ Memorandum for McCone from William Harvey re:*°
GR RCTEESIRI, 10 July 1962 (02561) parE; i Genova
PILE: PARE? July 1, 1975



OF eheq FLLEOZTE:PIO0G Gse6os AN

CIAHAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

Ne ot

Ca)

eae eee Se IRKPATRICK DATES: CATEGORIES:

William Harvey ~~~ DDP =} ou iy ]er!

Gen, Lansdale Mr. Halpern, Nov. 21, 1962 {Special Group Augmented

Walter Lider CHEEV ER a x. Operation Mongoose
a Tan! Cuba

DCI Tan's
CCURRENCE: a “

With regard to paragrapli"2-of-hansdale' s memorandum to SGA dated 14 Nov.
1962 Harvey states: "The statement that Operation Mongoose had had no information on
this operation since early October was patently false. Specific references made to the
pen ultimate paragraph and Lansdale's memorandum concerning a report for the CIA which he
used as a basis for memorandum dated 31 Oct. 1962 to Oswald Kirkpatrick. This refers to
ar telephonic.-conversation_on_the_evening of 30 Oct. 1962 between Lansdale and (Gheeven
which is referred specifically in paragraph 2 on) ges 7 and 8 of my ‘reference-mem Tandus
I have discussed this matter in detail with Gheeyey “and clearly recollects that his
conversation with Lansdale on that date took place as reflected in my reference memorandum. -
During this conversation there was No discussion of previous operations except a brief
discussion of the COBRA andy Ne ieiualypteams and Lansdale did not ask, according tog@aceyens
recollection, any specific questions concerning assets inside or prior operations*wht

SOURCE, Would logically have Ted to the discussions at the CHIP STAR:
===" of the Matahambre operation."
Phul Wallach

Memgrandum dated Nov. 21, 1962 cous)) i DATE:
. | id ve rs

July 1, 1975



Tr aed “piLeozze:PIo0g Gceos AN

NO OBJECTION T0

a p/OR
(FICATION AN
OEE OF THIS DOCUMENT

WTIZED
se nN at he
ae

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
crn KIRK PA TRICK —— TS
saa: i en Wily JO}

Gen. Lansdale Mr. Halpern <IN Special Group Augmented
Walter Elder CHEEVER. Operation Mongoose
DCI oe Cuba

CCURRENCE:
— =" With regard to paragraph 2 of Lansdale's memorandum to SGA dated 14 Nov.
1962 Harvey states: "The statement that Operation Mongoose had had no information on
this operation since early October was patently false. Specific references made to the
pen ultimate paragraph and Lansdale's memorandum concerning a report for the CIA which he
used as a basis for memorandum dated 31 Oct. 1962 to Oswald Kirkpatrick. This refers to
a—telephonic: conversation on. the_evening of 30 Oct. 1962 between Lansdale and Cheever

which is referred specifically in pafagraph 2 on pages 7 and 8 of my reference memorandu-

I have discussed this matter in detail with Cheever and clearly recollects that his
conversation with Lansdale on that date took place as reflected in my reference memorandum.
During this conversation there was no discussion of previous operations except a brief
discussion of the COBRA and{Qmominkteams and Lansdale did not ask, according to Cheever's
recollection, any specific quéstions concerning assets inside or prior operations which

SouRCE, would logically have Ted to ie cu TT: STAPF:
———=" of the Matahambre operation."

Memgrandum dated Nov. 21, 1962 (01151)
inn Lee aatese  £

hid

Phul Wallach
DATE:

July 1, 1975



ar ahed FLLEOTTE:PII0d GoEeOs HH

eCTION T
p/OR

PERSONS/ENTITIES: ©

HARVEY, William V
Chief, FI Staff, CIA
QgWIN

DATES: | CATEGORIES: ‘Top SECRET

27 June 1963 EXECUTIVE ACTION

OCCURRENCE:

SOURCE: STAFF:

Baron

I.G. REPORT 1967, p. 41

DATE:
FILE: ———" 28.6.75


er shed FLLEOTTE:PIO0d GoEeOs AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED =
edd
are)
TOP_SECRET
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
KING, J. C. Harvey 4“ -
LE RE Parp  Fvuwaplys . | May 23, 1967 CASTRO
BISSELL
HALPERN
OCCURRENCE:

The following sources of information were used in preparing the IG REPORT of
1967: (1) Files: Furnished for review by the Director of Security, the Deputy
Director for Support, the General Counsel, the Legislative Counsel, the Chief of

WH Division, and by Col. J. C._KING, former Chief of WH. Division. Also, the .
Director of Central Reference furnished biographic files and_intelligence publi-
cations. (2) Interviews: Desmond Fitzgerald, Sam Halpern, fBricerCheeven)| J. C.
King, Alfonso Rodriguez, J. D. Esterline, Edward Gunn, Howar James

a
dt Osborn,
O'Connell, Sidney Gottlieb, Sheffield Edwards, Richard Bissell, Lawrence Houston,
‘ Raye mevehley;) John Warner , BNeStomasanehezs) William Harvey, Cornelius Roosevelt,
Robért Bannerman, Henry Bortner, Richard Ober.

STAFF: Baron

DATE? © 7/2/75


FF OHed FLLEOZZE:PIO0d Gce0s AH

GIA HAS NO OBJECTiC
OECLASSIFICATION ANDI

RELEASE OF
AS SANiTizEy "S COCUMENT
IM gn@ ¥

G Xa}

DATES: _ CATEGORIES:

5/25/04 | CASTRO

Report :were: Notes of William Harvey; Records of Dr.

(Office of Medical Services; and, brief records of

fof TSD). Some operational files were also used.
For the most part, the Inspector General's office reliea upvii

information given to us orally by people who's memories are fogged
by time. (1) a

“"We interviewed everyoné whom we Could identify as likely to be a
knowledgeable, with the exceptions of MR, DULLES and GENERAL CABELL." (2)

A complete list of the interviewees is attached to the IG Report
at Tab A. "If there are significant innaccuracies in the Report

they are most likely to occur in faulty ordering of the sequence
of events." (2). ;

= ja STAFF:
SOURCE: Report [44,4 . yuo eS DALE Gare #1

wre ape
PILE: AA DATE:


ch aiea PLLEOZZE:PIO0G Gc6eos BH

; TION TO (T ized °
onusspar nt ‘ANDIO® MENT ne san
ie rare Ne

are

PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:

Edwards Gomez v4 Castro
King flolcomb
Bannerman O'Connell

OCCURRENCE:
O'Connell testified that when EDWARDS was on leave, once, KING spoke to

Robert BANNERMAN (Who was not witting of Castro project) and O'Connell had

to tell BANNERMAN that B. was not "privy" to project. O'Connell was embarassed.
(Tr. 36, 99-100). No one but KING, not Gomez orl Suen er Kilew (100)

SOURCE: STAFF:
Testimony of James P. O'Connell, 5/30/75 John Bayly
PILE: DATE:

6/30/75


OF Abed. PLLEDETZE'PIIOG CoeOG AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION. AND/CR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

4-4-9.

XB)

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

DATES: CATEGORIES:
_ HOUSTON + 'S0-'60
‘ "60's Castro
; assume, Ou ;
OCCURRENCE:

Houston testified that he cannot remember that his legal advice as to not
continuing a project was ever rejected by CIA, (47) although Houston
recalls vetoing two propositions: -onere : : |

Le ggen. a ,

SOURCE: STAFF:
Testimony of Lawrence Houston, 6/2/75 —_—

John Bayly
FILE: ;

6/30/75


£F 96ed = FLLEOTTEPIOVG CGEeOs AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION Tt
Fees OTs singe
Hi
Pao aen IS DOCUMENT

0E-4~ WA on
We)
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
BUNDY COL. KING
KILPATRICK June 20,1964 DUVALIER
NCCONE :
HUGHES Feece® Group

OCCURRENCE:
On June 20, 1963the Special Group approved a CIA paper dated June 1970 regarding

political action in(Haita:} (The substance of the paper is not expressed). "Mr.
MCCONE_ said he has some Teservations about the quality of any possible replacements
for {DENN cER but agreed that_it_is necessary to take some action in order to prevent

Peventually going very far to the left. Colonel KING.. + said ‘said that in his
‘Opinion, we have no feasible alternatives to cooperate with [BgSeis} Skin attempting

to unseat aa (AGER.). . Ne (re PET aay
{

TOP

SOURCE: STAFF:

Minutesof Special Group meeting June 20, 1963 DATE: Kelley
FILE: 6/28/75


_ BF a6ed | FLLEOTZE'PIOOG SGe0G AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION 10 -

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED
Wf - fe ay aad
oa)
PERSONS/ENTITIEBS : _ DATES: | CATEGORIES:
MCCONE FITZGERALD HUGHES 8/19/64 ;
BUNDY  PAPICH BOSCH, JOSE - {7/30/64 , i
JESSUP RFK ‘10764

STEAKLEY JMWAVE
JMWAVE VANCE

OCCURRENCE: According to the minutes of the 303 Committee on 730/64" “It was Lt
that MR, FITZGERALD would contact SAM PAPICHof the FBI in regard to the earlier report
of an alleged plot with Mafia overtones to assassinate Castro and which the AG agreed

to handle as a matter of law enforcement." (116)" The reference is clearly to a 6/10/64
memorandum information report from the DDP to the Director, (116) which was dissemin-

ated-to-the-Specs-Asst. to the Press—for. Natl. Security Affrs.; ASst. Sect, for Inter-
American Affairs,Dept. of State; Dir. of Intell. and Research, State Dept.; Director,
. DIA; The AG; the Director, FBI; DDCI and the DCI. The 6/10/74 report"related a proposal
for the assassination of Castro that was made to prominent Cuban exiles, The Mafia app-
eared _to be anvolved in the scheme." The asking price was 350, 000.- ~JOSERMART OS PEPIN: 2]
uiiwould contribute $50,000. (BOSeny pproachtdt the Chief of
“suggested the U.S, govermment also Pertribace, This was rejected.
‘The record indicates ClAtsonly involvenent_was_to_repo "
SOURCE Yast record of incident found by IG Rept. is memo from MEGA to Bundy, 8/19/64,
reporting::the results of FBI intvws with the alleged particip ts. abviously nothing

same eof the plot."(117}
PILE Baron, 7/1/75

IG REPORT 1967


6F BHed FLLEOSTEPIO0d Gce0s AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION
UE OTS 'AND/OR
i
AS SAN eS DOCUMENT
f4~ - te
WG
PERSONS/ENTITIEFS: DATES: | CATEGORIES:
MCCONE —_- FITZGERALD HUGHES ‘~~~ |8/19/64 SGA
BUNDY — OPAPIGH BOSCH, JOSE 4750764 i
JESSUP RFK 6/10/64

STEAKLEY  JMWAVE ; AREA GREP AA 7
JMWAVE VANCE H babes

OCCURRENCE: According to the minutes of the 303 Committee on 7/30/64, TE was ‘agreed
that MR, FITZGERALD would contact SAM PAPICHof the FBI in regard to the earlier report
of an alleged plot with Mafia overtones to assassinate Castro and which the AG agreed
to handle as a matter of law enforcement.'' (116)" The reference is clearly to a 6/10/64
memorandum—information report from the_DDP_to_the.Director,¥ (116) which was dissemin-
ated to the Spec. Asst. to the Pres, for Natl. Security Affrs.; ASst. Sect. for Inter-
American Affairs,Dept. of State; Dir. of Intell. and Research, State Dept.; Director,
- DIA; The AG; the Director, FBI; DDCI and the DCI. The 6/10/74 report"related a proposal
for the assassination of Castro that was made to prominent Cuban exiles. The Mafia app-
eared tobe mnvolved in the scheme." The asking frice was $150,000. --s@SEENARTOSRERIN A
BOSCH IB Wo Pebacancieskimmsvould contribute TPoo. OSE Papproached the Chief of
tation, Ly and “suggeSted the U.S. govermment also-c ntribute, This was rejected.
CIA involvement_1

Same not the plot:"(17)

FIL Ta orpanTr 10467


os ahea Piisozze:PIO0d Geos AN

eared

‘a WWE, ane
____-The_record_ indicates CIA's only involvement_was_to_repo:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR °
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
iS SANIT
panier oa
“  1)@)
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: | CATEGORIES:
FITZGERALD HUGHES —— 8719/64 SGA
APAPICH BOSCH, JOSE -~}7/30/64 . i MONGOOSE

JESSUP RFK

STEAKLEY JMWAVE i

JMWAVE = VANCE ls

OCCURRENCE: according to the minutes of the 303 Committee on 7/30/64,"It was agreed
that MR. FITZGERALD would contact SAM PAPICHof the FBI in regard to the earlier report
of an alleged plot with Mafia overtones to assassinate Castro and which the AG agreed
to handle as a matter of law enforcement." (116) The reference is clearly to a 6/10/64
memorandum information report from the DDP to the Director,’ (116) which was dissemin-

ated to the Spec. Asst. to the Pres. for-Natl. Security Affrs.; ASst. Sect. for Inter-~-~—---
American Affairs,Dept. of State; Dir. of Intell, and Research, State Dept.; Director,

. DIA; The AG; the Director, FBI; DDCI and the DCI. The 6/10/74 report"related a proposal

volved in the scheme." The asking frice was $150,000. -<#@SE@RIARTOSEEEIN :
PTE: snimm@would contribute $50,000. fB §approached the Chief of

for the assassination of Castro that was made to prominent Cuban exiles. The Mafia app-
be . ae

@sted the U.S. govermment also“contribute., This was rejected.
; ; 5 FoF j Ua

McGAMe" to Bundy, 8/19/64,
ts."Obviously nothing
DATE:

SOURCE Yast record of incident found by IG Rept. is memo from
reporting:the results of FBI intvws with the alleged particip
Game of the plot."(117)

1G REPORT 1967 Baron, 7/1/75


TS aheq PFLLEOTZEPII0G CoeOc AH

ait)
OBJECTION ,
ines he \ON ANDIO!
DEUS es DOCUMENT
yTHZED
AS SANITH ED

Tye)

DATES: _ CATEGORIES:

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

KIRKPAT RICK — an
William Harvey DIP™ hl Jet
Gen.__Lansdale Mr. Halpern Nov. 21, 1962 |Special Group Augmented
Walter Elder CHE EVER se Operation Mongoose

Cuba

DCI
CCURRENCE:

With regard to paragraph 2 of Lansdale's memorandum to SGA dated 14 Nov.
1962 Harvey states: 'The statement that Operation Mongoose had had no information on
this operation since early October was patently false. Specific references made to the |
pen ultimate paragraph and Lansdale's memorandum concerning a report for the CIA which he
used as a basis for memorandum dated 31 Oct. 1962 to Oswald Kirkpatrick. This refers to
a telephonic. conversation on the evening of 30 Oct. 1962 between Lansdale and Cheever
which is referred specifically in paragraph 2 on pages 7 and 8 of my reference memorandu.
I have discussed this matter in detail with Cheever and clearly recollects that his
conversation with Lansdale on that date took place as reflected in my reference memorandum.
During this conversation ther s no discussion of previous operations except a brief
discussion of the COBRA and (i ANDY teams and Lansdale did not ask, according to Cheever's
recollection, any specific questions concerning assets inside or prior operations which
SOURCE, Would Togically have “ted to the s rT STAFF:
=" of the Matahambre operation." _——

: Phul Wallach

962 (01151
* 162 ( a . a DATE:

bt uA

jMemprandun dated Nov. 21,
BILE L. July 1, 1975

