# 157-10004-10283

## Page 1

157-10004-10283

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

:SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 157-10004-10283

RECORDS SERIES :

LETTER

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ROCK

FROM : BELIN, DAVID

TO : KNOCHE, HENRY

TITLE :

REQUEST FOR COPIES OF CIA DOCUMENTS

DATE : 05/23/75

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :

ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION

BELIN, DAVID

CIA DOCUMENTS

CUBAN OPERATIONS

CASTRO

CABLES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/07/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

DO01d:32202172

Page 1

Date: 09/07/94

Page: 1

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

---

## Page 2

SECRET - SENSITIVE

May 23, 1975

1 - Addressee .

- File

- Chron

-I'- Belin Chron

1 - Cargill Chron

C-II -6

ALI. E. Henry Knoche

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Knoche:

In connection with our inquiry, I rould like to

request copies of certain documents referred to in a lay 15,

1975, memorandum, which has been forvarded to us, entitled

"ALIB Research of DPD Files Related to Cuban Operations."

These documents were provided by Mr. Seltzer of your Inspector

the documents how Mason Cares ten

General office to Mason Cargill of my staff on May 21, 1975,

for a review; however, copies were not provided at that time.

the documents we require are as follow:

1.

. Menorandun for the record, unsigned, undated,

Subject:

"First Meeting of Branch Four

Task Force, 9 March

1960."

This memo outlines the meeting of the Branch Four

Group which apparently was to concern itself with covert

operations against Cuba.

2.

Cable, dated August 30, 1960, from Headquarters

to

This cable reads as follows:

"l.

Attempting obtain one helio. Expect

this to fulfill all operational

and emer-

gency reguirements.

RE REP 3 PAPA 2B Do not approve.

Justification assignment this acft for

strict operational and emergency."

Cable, dated April 4, 1961, to BELL From

This cable, written in Spanish, appears to bo a request on

an agent within Cuba that certain equiment be air-dropped to

hin.

Among the items requested in this cable, are one .50-

callber machine gun, tuo boxes of springfields with telescopic

sights, plus other weapons and rockets.

01286

RIC: clb

(5)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

SECRET

SEUSITIVE

DECLASS!: ON AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

# 212398

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZER lu

27-7-94

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE DEFICE

HW 50955 DocId: 32202172 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET - SENSITIVE

= 2-

4.

cable, dated March 27, 1961, to BaLL ano

This appears to be another nessage from an agent within cuba.

written in Spanish, It is translated as follows:

"March 23 I told Luis Bueno to ask you

opinion regarding sabotage Cia. Electricidad

(electric company) in order to leave Havana

ten days without power.

We can coordinate

with attenpt against Fide. in public appear

ance (at) Sports Palace.

suggest attemot

against fldel in accordance with general

plan.

Light and Fidel possibly can be

coordinated with Pinar del Rio. Reply urgent.

Cable, March 29, 1951, FrOM BELI to

This cable recounts another message apparently received from

an agent within Cuba.

The agent who sent this message had the

cryptonym "HOTLOX."

The English translation of this cable

reads as follows:

"Plan (4) 9 April. Fidel will talk at the

palace.

Assassination attempt at said place

followed by a general shutting off of main

electric plants in Ravana Veladura.

Cocupy

the public square, telephone company, atares

(arsenal) and MINFAR (Ministerio de Fuerzas

Armadas Revolucionario - Amed Forces Ministry).

Action throughout the entire island combined

(with) your debarkation at Salado and Santa

Maria (del) Mar.

We need arms enter Havana.

We have sufficient nen and courage. State

of nind desperate impossible to endure this

longer. Every day situation vorse daily

He can blow up any electric company

at anytime. Consider what this represents

for us after the action.

Ansver before

1 April. Agent 2637."

6. Cabla, dated April 5, 1961, to BELL fron

Inis cable, an information copy of which was sent to the bo?.

transmitted a message Icceived fron an agent within Cuha,

whose cryptonym was NOTLOX.

The English translation of this

messaje is as follows:

01287

SECRET - SENSITIVE

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE DEFICE

NW 50955

DocId:32202172

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET - SENSITIVE

= 3=

"Your message 15, Brand, Chacho, and Iuls

only have arms for 50 man.

Rlowing up (of)

central electric plant and possibly attemol

on Fidel will be decidedly carried out

9 April.

Once this (is) achieved impossible

to maintain clandestine organization in Cuba.

Your military aid is decisive.

If it does

not come that date we are lost."

7. Cable, dated June 4, 1961, to BEll. from|

Thia message transmits a message received from the agent

NOTLOX from within Cuba. Its English translation reads as

follows:

"Functionary Italian Enbassy by the name

of Moratori says he works for one intelli-

gence organization of yours, he says he is

in contact with Martin Elena and others

and that you have plans for invasion

within 30 days after killing Fidel, advise

if we can confida in Moratori."

8. Cable, dated May 3, 1961, tO BELL frOm

This nessage transmits another one received fron an agent

inside Cuba.

The cryptonyn of this agent was TEKLOK.

The

English translation of the message reads as follows:

"We are contacting all groups (dos) to

sigarize one united front with a coordina-

tor.

You name hin or we elect hir.

Tell

us.

Will try kill Fidel today. Andres OK

but still hiding. His nen gone to hill.

Want know and what can be used. (as rca)

Iuis Jorge."

SECRET - SENSITIVE

01288

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE

50955

DocId: 32202172

Page

---

## Page 5

SECRET - SENSITIVE

• 4-

Also, I request to be supplied with the true

identities of the addressors and addressees of the above

nessages, which are identifled in them by cryptonyms, as

well as the identities of the agents within Cuba who sent

then.

Further, we would appreciate copies or any replies

tha CIA may have sent in response to these messages coming

out of Cuba relating to plans to assassinate Castro.

Thank you very nuch for your help with this

matter.

sincerely.

David W. Belin

Executive Director

01289

ECRET - SENSITIVE

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE

50955

DooId: 32202172

Page

5

---

