1571001110020

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIF IC,

‘ATION FORM

AGENCY ; SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER ;

RECORDS SERIES ;

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:

* 06/09/75
PAGES ; 108

SUBJECTS ;
RIPT OF RICHARD m, BISSELL (VOLUME 1)
CUMENT Type .

PE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ASSIFICATION 27

RESTRICTIONS + REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS ; p

E OF Last REVIEW : 09/29/93
OPENING CRITERIA ;

COMMENTS :
T Box 231,

Folder 3 _ Transcript /Bisse1}]

Page 1
955 Docld:32203788
NW 50

Date:08/1599
Page:j



amt 33

&

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

10

il

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15 |

16

1?

18

19

20

al

22

23

®

410 First Street, S-E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

25

HW 50955 Docld:32203788 Page 2

12

TOP SECRET

48

in that respect, buttressed at all by this one page froma
document we have, entitled Nine Pages from the Inspector General
21 May 1973, which I read very quickiy.
It says: "Early in the Kennedy Administration, the ‘White
House' urged Richard Bissell to create an Executive Action
capability, that is, a general standby capability to carry out
assassinations. The Executive Action program came to be known
as ZRRIFLE. It's principal asset was an agent QJWINN who had
been recruited earlier by ___ for use in a special operation
in the Congo for the assassination of Patrice Lumumba and to
be run by |. «= smade a survey of the scene, decided
that he wanted no part in the assassination attempt and asked
to be released."

Is the "blank" in that case

Mr. Bissell. Yes, it is.

Senator Baker. Which Bissell granted. "Project named
ZRRIFLE first appears in the files in May 1961 although the
first recorded approval is dated 19 May 1962."

Skipping down to the last paragraph, "ZRRIFLE was not
exercised in the Congo. It did, however, find application
against Castro in a conspiracy to assassinate or incapacitate
him that was already underway under other auspices."

Now this memo alleges The 'White House' laid a
requirement on you for an assassination capability and that

it was you in connection with the Castro situation. Is all

TOP SECRET



amt $3 TOP SECRET

74

1 Mr. Bissell. I believe there was such conversation very

shortly before I lsft the Agency but not when the ZRRIFLE

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
0

° project was first initiated.

4 Senator Schweiker. What was the nature of |it? If you

5 don't say it was that specific application, what application

6 | was it?

7 Mr. Bissell. It wasn't directed at dny specific application.

8 It was to develop a capability, meaning to identify potential '- 1
9 agents probably in different kinds or parts of the world and

10 command the control channels and techniques and |the like.

ett Senator Schweiker. Well, you're contradicting what

12) Mr. Harvey'sS.not says on.11/16/61 when he discussed with you,

13 according to his notes, "Application of ZRRIFLE |to Cuba."

WARD & PAUL

14 Mr. Bissell. Well, I said that I thought there was

15 || some conversation shortly before I left the Agency, and I think
16 that is the one’to which I refer.
17 Senator Schweiker. You are acknolwedging --
18 Mr. Bissell. Oh, yes. I am acknowledging |that I did

19 eventually talk to Harvey about directing this towards Cuba,

20 but that was not the nature .of my conversation with Harvey “hen
21 I first asked him to take on the task of developing a new

22 ZRRIFLE capability.

23 Senator Schweiker. Was your asking }Mz

8
8
8
6
6
5
3
u
4

24 Lumumba part of the Executive Action. program?

25 Mr. Bissell. I suppose it could be said to be fitted within

TOP SECRET

HW 50955 DocId:32203788 Page 3


p
3

+
a
w

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
i)

10

11

12

13

14

WARD & PAUL

15

16

17

18

19

20

al

22

.E., Washington, D.C. 20003,

23

24

410 First

25

HW 50955 DocId:32203788 Page 4

TOP SECRET

Senator Schweiker. Are you aware that a vi
up in the Congo?

Mr. Bissell. Well, I repeat I have little

Senator Schweiker. Well, (Mres.OuDonn Sig did

a virus did get there. How would virus like thd
without your knowledge?
Mr. Bissell. Well, if I'm correct, the vir

before (Ri

the hands of the Statio

there.

Senator Schweiker. Well, wait. I haven't
thought you didn't know anything about whose han
How did you know it was in the Station fiGh

Mr. Bissell. Because I was told that is wh:
testified.

Senator Schweiker. Who told you that?

Mr. Wides. I did, Senator.

Senator Schweiker. Okay, go ahead.

Mr. Bissell. And that could have happend with my not

in any way remembering it. In other words, I di

78

rus did end

recollection.
testify that

t get there,

us was in

went down

told you -- I

ds it was in.

dn't remember

until I reread them this morning, any of the details about

what was in the Embassy in the Dominican Republi

that is a little clear in my mind now.

c. I think

I don't remember this. This could have happened without

my own approval, that is, the forwarding of the

virus. It

could have happened with my approval but under circumstances

TOP SECRET



@
3

t
a
>

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
0

10

ll

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16.

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

ret, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

©

25

HW 50955 DocId:32203788 Page 5

TOP SECRET

which I wouldn't have reason to remember today.

79

Senator Schweiker. Does it surprise you that in view of

bonne»

s position of refusing to assassina

te a leader

that the virus did appear? Does that surprise you?

Mr. Bissell. Yes, it does on the whole, unl
some quite different purpose.

Senator Schweiker. What might that be?

ess it was

Mr. Bissell. Well, I can't guess, but my judgment is that

before

been decided to be inappropriate and unnecessary

dropped.

ever got there the assassination plan had

and had been

Senator Goldwater. I will have to say, I get more confused|

as the afternoon goes on.

If you were not instructed by the White HouSe to set up

a committee which among other things could accomplish assassina-

tion, could you have done this on your own?

Mr. Bissell. Yes, I could, sir.

Senator Goldwater. Could you have done:it on instructions

'
of anyone other than at the White House?

Mr. Bissell. The plan of the capability I could have

done on my own or ordered on my own.
Senator Goldwater. Well, did you originate

self and start it yourself?

the idea your-

Mr. Bissell. I have already told you that I don't remember

specific conversations with regard to the White House, but

TOP SECRET



amt &

fas)

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

410 Fi @, |. 5.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

NW 50955 ‘Docla:32203788 Page 6

TOP SECRET ~~

103
apparently we had briefed him about it. I just really wonder

if we should question our own techniques here, because he! was

Prepared for the question because he had heard mr | (oxbomneney

statement. I'm not sure he should have heard or .COMOnneREESS
statemant before he made the statement. I think we ought ‘to
look into that.

Mr. Schwarz. That's a very hard question because take
Mr. McNamara -- I would appreciate some instructions on this,
Mr. McNamara and Mr. Bundy have both said that they want an
Opportunity to know the matters with which they should be
concerned. Now on the one hand there are disadvantages to
doing that because you will look into what they are to be on
guard against. On the other hand there are advantages to doing
it because you generally do refresh their recollection about
matters which are relatively old.

Senator Schweiker. Wouldn't it be whether you/ve got a
hostile witness or a friendly witness?

Mr. Schwarz. Well, I don't think in advance we know what
they are.

Senator Schweiker. This fellow sounded pretty hostile
to me.

The Chairman. Senator Hart?

Senator Hart of Colorado. Frank, on your first! question
about how to deal with the Press, first of all, I'm not nearly

as experienced as most of the otherypeople and second, advice

TOP SECRET

