# 157-10014-10149

## Page 1

157-10014-10149|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

7/7/2015

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER :

157-10014-10149

RECORD SERIES :

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

07-M-54

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

CLERK CHRON AUGUST 1975

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

08/00/1975

12

SSCSGO

CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: CORRESPONDENCE

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/11/2000

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NH 50955

DooId: 32423537

Page

---

## Page 2

Date

Page

08/07/95

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD

NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: SSCIA

157-10014-10149

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM

TO

TITLE : CLERK CHRON AUGUST 1975

DATE

08/00/75

PAGES

: 12

SUBJECTS

:SSCSGO

CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : CORRESPONDENCE

CLASSIFICATION

: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED

• IN

FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 01/08/99

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

[R] - ITEM' IS RESTRICTED

1214

50955

DocId: 32423537

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CLERK CHRON

AUGUST 75 QU

---

## Page 4

SEL COM

FILE

August 28, 1975

Mr. Dan H. Fenn, Jr.

Director

John F. Kennedy Library

380 Trapelo Road

Waltham, Massachusetts 02154

Dear Mr. Fenn:

This letter will confirm a telephone conversation between

Peter Fenn of our staff and Bill Mosa. Gregory Treverton, who

will carry this letter with him, 1s coming to the Library to

review Kennedy tape recordings.

Thia is a continuation of the

review other members of our staff conducted several weeke ago.

It pertains to our inquiry into the assassination lasue.

The

primary purpose of this visit is to verify the authenticity of

a particular quotation.

Thank you for your consideration and your continuing as

sistance to the Committee.

Sincerely,

William G. Miller

NH 50955

DocId: 32423537

Page 4

---

## Page 5

As of 10 a.m. 8/12

8/12

/13

DRELL, Sidney

ENTHOVEN, Dr. Allen

FISHMAN, Irving

KEHOE, James

KISSINGER, Henry

KING,

John

GRAHAM, James C.

HOUSTON, Lawrence

RICE, Donald

WHITE, Victor

BATES

MISHKIN

-CHOPER

LOUISELL

BLOUNT, Winston

DiRIENZO, Margaret

FAVORINI, Francis

PANOV, Wolfgang

ROWAN, Henry

INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FROM AUGUST 12

Indonesia NIE's (Ford)

Future Scope (Aaron-California)

Domestic Activities (Wallach-10 a.m.)

(Wallach)

Chile -- Before Committee

Indonesia NIE's: '57-158 (Ford-10:30 a.m.)

Indonesia NIE's (Ford - 2:30)

Assassinations (Bayley-8:30 a.m.)

Intelligence Estimates, Role of DCI (Bader-California;

+Office of Security (Wides-10:30)

Huston Plan. (Johnson-Berkeley, California)

+Postal Matter (Wallach-1:30 S406)

Chile and DIA (Johnston- 9:30 CA 608)

+Domestic Activities (Wallach-10 a.m. CA 608)

Future Scope (Aaron-California)

Future Scope (Aaron-California)

i/14

3/15

3/18

ASHLEY

KING, John 1.

GOODELL, Valentine

STUART, Richard

UNDERHILL, Am. Francis

ALLISON, Amb. John

HARRIS, Benjamin

JORGENSEN, Gordon

HH 50955.

DooId:32423537 Page 5

Huston Plan (Johnson-California)

NIS Program (Grant 10 a.m.)

Indonesia (Ashville, NC-Ford)

Indonesia (Ford-Ashville, NC)

Indonesia, (Ford-NC)

Future Scope (Aaron-San Francisco)

*Assassinations (DiGenova, Bayley, FAOS-S407)

Laos (Trueheart, Shea-Puget Sound, Washington)

---

## Page 6

SEL CUM

File:

August 7, 1975

OFFICIAL AND CONFIDENTIAL

Robert Q. Marston, President

University of Florida

226 Tigert Hall

Gainesville, Florida

Dear President Marston:

In the course of the inquiry of the Senate Select

Conmittee on Intelligence Activities, a question has arisen

concerning the date of a conversation between former Senator

George Smathers and President Kennedy. Senator Smathers

cannot recall the date, but he does remember preparing a

memorandum for the President

at that time.

Senator Smathers has authorized the Committee to re-

ceive

fron the University of Florida a copy of this memoran-

dul•

Please phone Senator Smathers at his Washington office

• (202/785-5300) if you wish to verify this.

Senator Smathers said that the memorandum was among

his official papers which he donated to the University of

Florida upon his retirement from the U. S. Senate.

The

memorandum should be dated sometime in 1961. It deals with

a proposal for precipitating an attack on Guantanamo Bay in

y th

order to lead to a United States invasion of Cuba.

We would greatly appreciate it if you could arrange

for the retrieval of this memorandum from your collection as

soon as possible in a confidential manner.

Thank you very much for your cooperation.

Sincerely,

Frederick D. Baron

Special Assistant to the

Chief Counsel

cc: Senator George Smathers

FDB/do

NH 50955

DOCId: 32123537 page 6

---

## Page 7

sugare

MEMORANDUM

TO:

FROM:

Bill Bader

Frederick Baron

DATE:

August 4, 1975

SUBJECT: Contact with CIA

EXECUTIVE ACTION

This morning I made a request

to Walt Elder over the

phone to have the opportunity to review two files tomorrow

morning -- Project ZRRIFLE and Agent QJWIN. Elder indicated

that this would be no problem.

CUBA ASSASSINATION STUDY

I also made an arrangement with Seymour Bolten last week

to review the AMLASH file tomorrow morning along with Gordon

Rhea.

Bolten made arrangements for this.

He said there would

be a need to wait several days

to ready the file for review --

I presume he intended to sanitize it in some fashion.

He agreed

to allow us to select documents

for xeroxing and delivery to

the Committee offices.

ALIAS TESTIMONY

Several past and present CIA personnel have testified

before the Committee in the past two weeks under alias..

I made

an arrangement with George Clark, of the CIA General Counsel's

office,

to have each such person

sign a statement indicating

his true identity.

The statement

is to be on file at the CIA,

available for Committee verification.

The Committee will receive

a sanitized copy of each statement for attachment to the pertinent

transcript.

Seymour Bolten approved this arrangement and promised

to supply sanitized copies of the handwritten statements that

were signed and filed at CIA before the arrangement was made.

I

am to supply him with a list of names tomorrow of all witnesses

who testified under alias.

7013,20

HW. 50955 DocId: 32423537 Page 7

---

## Page 8

MEMORANDUM

TO:

Bill Bader

FROM:

Frederick Baron FDD

DATE:

August 5, 1975

SUBJECT: REVIEW OF CIA FILES: AMLASH, ZRRIFLE, and QJWIN

I spoke with Seymour Bolten at noon.

We confirmed the

following

arrangement for review of

the AMLASH file:

1. This is to be treated as a non-precedential case.

2. Only Gordon Rhea and myself are to review the file.

(Seymour readily agreed to include Gordon.)

3. The review will take place in 2-E-45, with an Agency

representative present.

•4.. We will see all of the AMLASH files (approximately

fourteen folders).

5. The files will be available in unsanitized form.

6. We will take no notes that involve any names which

they might want to sanitize.

We will be permitted to

make a checklist of the documents we wish copied.

(Seymour said he did not mean

to exclude all notes,

but simply sensitive names.

We will limit ourselves

to making a checklist, however, to avoid any possible

misinterpretation of our (Iofty7 motives.)

7. After reviewing the unsanitized files, we will indicate

the documents that we wish copied. The Agency will

sanitize those documents and will provide us with

copies of the sanitized version.

Note: No mention was made of the procedures we will follow

in checking sanitized copies against the original.

Bolten was aware that Elder had no objection to my review of

the ZRRIFLE and QJWIN files in unsanitized form.

CC:

Fritz Schwarz

Gordon Rhea

=13

50955

DocId: 32423537

Page B

Main on.

---

## Page 9

INTERVIEWS HELD WEEK OF AUGUST 4

814/1í

BARRY (fnu)

CONNORS (fnu)

ROCHFORD, James

+CIA Security Office (Wides)

+CIA Security Office/Merimac (Wides)

113th MI Group-Legion of Justice (Snider-Chicago)

8/5

BENNETT, Donald

GRAHAM, Gen. Daniel

PHILPOTT, Gen. Jamie

WOOLARD, James

HOUSTON, Lawrence

Chile -- Before the Committee

Agency History (Karalekas)

8/6

KARAMESSINES, Tom

MARKS, Richard

SHAPIRO

STROWBRIDGE, Col.

WALLER, John

Before Committee

Military Intelligence (Betts)

Huston Plan (Johnson- L.A.)

Domestic Counterintelligence and Investigative Activity

(Snider-San Francisco)

Agency History (Karalekas)

8/7

BAUFORD, Tim

COTTER, William

DEAN, John

KARAMESSINES, Thomas

MARTIN, Lee

MURPHY, DI. Franklin

PAUKER, Prof. Guy

SAYLE, Edward

WOODSIDE, Mrs. K. H.

+NSA Monitoring (Fenn)

+Domestic Activities (Wallach)

Future Scope and Huston Plan (Johnson and Aaron- CA)

Agency. History (Karalekas)

+Office of Security (Wides)

Future Scope (Aaron-California)

Indonesia (Ford)

+CIA Security Office (Wides)

Chile

(Johnston)

50955

DocId: 32423537 Page 9

---

## Page 10

8/8.

GALBRAITH, James

KRULAR,

Gen. Victor

MCCONE, John

OBERG, John

WAY & CARNEY

Indonesia (Ford)

Future Scope (Aaron - California)

Intelligence Community (Bader - Seattle)

Chile (Johnston)

Huston Plan (Johnson-California)

8/11

HOUSTON, Lawrence

HOUSTON, Lawrence

MEYERS, Robert J.

MILLER, Herbert

MOLDAU, Stuart

KOLLER

BATES

WILDARSKY

SAYLOR, Jack

WOLF, Col. William

*INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED WEEK OF AUGUST 11

Assassinations (Bayley) (S407 at 2 p.m.)

Agency History (Karalekas - 11:30 a.m. at his home)

Indonesia (Ford-noon CA610)

+Assassinations (Bayley, Madigan-3 p.m. S406)

Future Scope (Aaron-San Francisco)

Huston Plan (Johnson-San Francisco)

CIA Domestic (Wallach, Dick at 2 in CA608)

USAINTA Cover and Proprietaries (Snider)

8/12

DRELL, Sidney

ENTHOVEN, Dr. Allen

FISHMAN, Irving

KISSINGER, Henry

KEHOE, James

BATES

MISHKIN

CHOPER

LOUISELL

RICE, Donald

WHITE, Victor

Future Scope (Aaron-California)

Future Scope (Aaron-California)

Domestic Activities (Wallach)

Chile - Before Committee (?)

(Wallach- 2 610 CA)

Huston Plan (Johnson - Berkeley, California)

Intelligence Estimates, Role of DCI (Bader-California)

*Office of Security (Wides- 10:30)

*Interviews reported to the Research Center as of 11 a.m. 8/8

NH 50955

DocId:32423337 Page

10

---

## Page 11

8/13

BOUNT, Winston

FAVORINI, Francis

PANOV, Wolfgang

ROWAN, Henry

+Postal Matters (Wallach at 1:30 in S406)

+Domestic Activities (Wallach at 10 in CA 608)

Future Scope (Aaron- California)

•Future Scope (Aaron- California)

8/14

ASHLEY

Huston Plan (Johnson in California)

8/18

ALLISON, Amb. John

Future Scope (Aaron-San Francisco)

• NH 50955

DocId: 32423537

page

11

---

## Page 12

August 4

BARRY (fnu)

(10 a.m. S406)

CONNORS (fnu)

(p.m. S406)

ROCHFORD, James

INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED WEEK OF AUGUST 4

+CIA Security Office (Wides)

+CIA Security Office/Merimac (Wides)

113th MI Group & Legion of Justic (Snider-Chicago)

August 5

BENNETT, Gen. Donald

GRAHAM, Gen. Daniel

PHILPOTT, Gen. Jamie

WOOLARD, James

+Before the Committee re Chile

August 6

KARAMESSINES, Tom

STROWBRIDGE, Col.

+Before the Committee

Domestic Counterintelligence and Investigative Activity

(Snider - San Francisco)

August 7

SAYLOR, Jack

(2 p.m.)

+CIA (TSD lab) (Wallach)

August 8

McCONE, John

Intelligence Commmity (Bader-Seattle)

August 12 .

RICE, Donald

Intelligence Estimates, Role of DCI (Bader-Cal.)

Other possible West Coast interviews: WOHLSTETTER, Dr. & Mrs.

SMITH, Dr. Wayne

HOFFMAN, Fred

+Sworn testimony

*Interviews reported to the Research Center as of 3:30 8/1/75. This schedule is internal

and not official.

HW

50955 DocId: 32423537 Page 12

---

## Page 13

7/25

MATTER, John

MONTIGNY, Norman

PHILLIPS, David

SFORZA, Tony

WEIR, Raymond

INTERVIEWS HELD WEEK OF JULY 25

Epstein

NSA Office of Security (Richard, Johnson)

+CIA/Chile (0' Flaherty, Inderfurth)

+CIA/Chile (Inderfurth, O'Flaherty)

NSA Office of Security (Richard, Johnson)

7/28

ALLISON, Graham

DEVINE, Frank

GREANEY, William

HUNTINGTON, Sam

MOORE, Donald

MOORE, George

MONTIGNY, Norman

NYE, Joseph

WOODLAND, James

Future Scope (Treverton, Aaron, Cambridge)

+Trujillo (Culbreth)

NSA Counterintelligence (Richard)

Future Scope (Treverton, Aaron-Cambridge)

Huston Plan (Johnson)

Huston Plan (Johnson)

NSA Counterintelligence (Richard)

Future Scope. (Treverton, Aaron-Cambridge)

Chile (Quanbeck, Fenn)

7/29

ABRAMSON, Harold

BORMAN, Nancy

CUSHMAN, Gen.

DAVIS, Nathaniel

EATON, Gen.

FINGER, Justin

GRAHAM, Gen.

MAHEU, Robert

DEARBORN, Henry

KATZENBACH, N.

SANCHEZ, Nestor

TUCKER, Roy

Drug Testing (Maxwell)

Surveillance & Infiltration of Women's Groups (Orloff-NYC)

Chile (Quanbeck)

Chile (Treverton)

Paramilitary (Betts, Romberg)

Martin Luther King (Epstein)

Chile (Quanbeck)

Before Committee

(Epstein)

CIA (Rhea)

(Snider)

Domestic Counterintelligence and Investigative Activity

NN 30953 Doc1d:32423537

Page 13

---

## Page 14

July 30

AVIGNON, Arthur

DISANTI, LOU

DOOLEY, J.E.

EISENHOWER, John

KOUN, John

NAIRN, R. E.

STUBBLEVINE, COL.

July 31

EASTWOOD, Mary

FANNON, Judith

LLOYD, CarI D:

PHILLIPS, David

August 1

ANONYMOUS

CRESCIOLI, Louis

FISHER, Lt. andr.

August 2

KIRKPATRICK, Lyman

SMITH, Abbot

*Sworn testimony

NW 50955

DocId: 32423537 Page

14

CIA (diGenova)

Chile (O'Flaherty)

NSA Office of Security

Laos (Betts &. Romberg)

113th Military Intelligence Group and the Legion of Justice

(Snider)

NSA Office of Security

Domestic Counterintelligence and Investigative Activity

(Snider)

Knowledge of informants placed in NOW (Orloff)

NSA Employee Files (Richard)

NSA Office of Security (Richard)

+Before the Committee

+Cuba (Baron)!

FBI liaison with Postal Service (Dick, Wallach)

Domestic Counterintelligence and Investigative Activity

(Snider)

CIA (Maxwell-RI)

Intelligence requirements, estimates; role of DCI

(Davis)

---

