157-10008-10238;

(2
3)pI m
kas Date: 10/07/93
M465 Pages]
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
C IDENTIFICATION FORM
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
. AGENCY : SSCIA
: - - DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10008-10238 Dee CON INFORMATION
RECORDS SERIES : IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED
Gr AB

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R421

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM : TREVERTON, GREG
TO : SCHWARZ, F.A.Q. JR.

TITLE :
MEMGRANDUM
DATE : 07/02/75
PAGES : 8
SUBJECTS :
( . TRUJILLO ASSASSINATION: MISSING DOCUMENTS
= DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/07/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :
BOX 437-23
(

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 50955 Docla:32203746 Page 1


—~,

Y37-A3 Rika

-geci BOx# 437-23 /OI3R.

MEMORANDUM i SEL COM SENSITIVE
. FILE:
$e
TO; FAO. Schwarz, Jr,
FROM: Greg Treverton

: A cory 3 op 3

SUBJECT: Trujillo Assassination: Missing Documents

DATE: July 2, 1975

1, May 11, 1960. State Department Memorandum after debriefing of Ambassador
Farland, :

2. July, 1960. State Department documenta with respect to the proposal
for an air drop of 12 Springfield rifles "fixed and sighted." Rubottom
had concurred in Proposal. Mentioned dn I¢ Report, page 26.

3. No date known. Cable informing Dearborn of plans to make the drop of
the Springfields.

4. (December 29, 1960). Draft CIA PFoposal approved at the Special Group
meeting, December 29, 1960,

5. February 10, 1961. Cable to cia Headquarters, apparently from chief of 4 A
Station,

ar is

6. March 17, 1961. Station to He. ers Memorandum indicating that
Dearborn had requested pe sasuasees be transferred to the dissidents,
7

7. March 26, 1961, Station to Headquarters Cable Tequesting permission to
possn Se 2 20h: Station to Headquar
|

Co ee

8. May 5, 1961. Item from the radord of the nso meeting, this date, reflecting
President's views with regard to the Dominican Republic.

|
9. May 25, 196). Minutes of the Special Group meeting, this date.

10. June 5 or 6, 1961. CIA Memoratidum for J.D. Esterline entitled "@DACID 1)
(State Department)views on Passage of arms."
1

ll. June 7, 1961, Memorandum from /J.C. Kiag describing White House meeting,
this date,

i
12. May 10, 1962. FBI interview ofthe Donintcan tho had inter- 4 (Ad
i

Yogated the agsassing,
fer wfo

GTirs

, Ga HAS No OBJECTION To

§)... Docld: 32203746 Page 2



QS

SEL COM senstrwvel

Gia Has No  DauECriow To me
te. LASSI N AND/OR
RANDUM - RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

10: David Aaron AY. Shrof4 f

FROM: Frederick A.O. Schwarz, Jr.

DATE: July 6, 1975

This will confirm our conversation concerning obtaining proof
with respect to the alleged peace talks with Castro in October and
November 1963. Box 45 "Cuba-William Attwood," reviewed by Susan
Pitts in the Kennedy Library, is said to contain “correspondence
concerning arrangements for negotiations for U.S./Castro talks,
10-11/63."" We have also heard stories about French journalist Jean
Daniel being an emissary from Kennedy to Castro at that time. As
you know, during October and November assassination devices were
being prepared and were offered to AMLASH,

You ought to at least see from the documents and from taking

some single~Senator testimony from Attwood whether there was a

genuine effort to make Peace; if so, was that communicated to the

Agency? Was the AMLASH assassination effort consistent? es
In the telephone conversation I had with Arthur Schlesinger

he said he thought Bill Attwood was more important than Daniel.

Ce Schlesinger will be here in Washington on July 9 and 10 and plans
- to come see. us at 9:00 a.m, on July 10.

Would you take care of all of the above.

ce: Curtis Smothers .
William Miller ’

RW 50955 Docld


cafas AS OBJECTION TO

REL tH bo
EGE
AS SANITIZ S DOCUMENT

LEN

NSU

(MEMORANDUM :

TO:

FROM: UwERBE RE af the JFK As ation Records
Sica, Act cl 1992 (PL 102-528)

DATE: 197 <
Je Rye aA 3a af lay (aN ‘
. SUBJECT: List of Documents Referred to Special Group

Minutes 1960-1964 (Less 1962) which the Committee
May Wish to Obtain

1. The document reflecting a project discussed at the Speciai Group meeting
on February 17, 1960, with respect to "a project providing for covert
spotting and assessment of potential agents for eventual sabotage of sugar
mills." (Source: Special Group Minutes dated February 17, 1960)

2. Paper entitled "General Covert Action Plan for Cuba" which was read at
the Special Group meeting on March 14, 1960. (Source: Special Group
Minutes dated March 15, 1960, para. 1. Note that in para. 12 it is
stated "Mr. Gray said he would like to submit Later this week to his
associate the paper entitled ‘General Covert Action Plan for Cuba! but
modified on the basis of this morning's discussion. Mr. Dulles promised
( a revised paper this week.")

3. Any paper which relates to the briefing by Mr. Dulles "on certain confiden-
tial aspects of the situation in the Dominican Republic" to the Special
Group meeting on March 30, 1960. (Source: Minutes of Special Croup meeting
March 30, 1960. Note the Minutes do not indicate the nature of this
briefing.)

4. Special Group Minutes dated October 27, 1960, state: "The paper outlining
a proposal to aid Col. Mobutu ‘in working toward the eventual formation of
a moderate government was read by the Group." The Minutes indicate that
"the Group approved the propesal," (Source: Minutes of Special Group
meeting dated October 27, 1960.)

5. Any backup papers or documents relating to a reference in the minutes of
the Special Group meeting on November 3, 1960, where it is stated:
"Mr. Merchant asked whether any real planning has been done for taking
direct, positive action against Fidel, Raul, and Che Guevara."

6. The Minutes of November 10, 1960, Special Group meeting state: “Mr. Bissell
mentioned briefly that we are making certain contingency plans for the
Congo against the possibility of a pro-Soviet Lumumba government...."

7. The document containing the plan which was presented to the Special Group
meeting on December 29, 1960, by Mr. Bissell. The Minutes for that
A. meeting state: "Mr. Bissell gave the broad outlines of a two-pronged
‘S plan for proceeding with certain limited covert activities directed
against the Trujillo regime...he also emphasized that the proposed actions
would not of themseives bring about the desired result in the near future,

lacking some decisive prroke against Truji himself."
WW 50955 Docid:32203746 Page 4 8 ujillo


8. Any paper or document used by Mr, Dulles and Mr. Bissell in the briefing
they gave to new members of the Special Group at the meeting on 14
February 1961. The Minutes state: "Mr. Dulles, assisted by Mr. Bissell,
then summarized for the benefit of the new members of the Special Group
the specific actions taken by the predecessor group during the past year,
and also a list of significant projects which antedate the beginning of
1960 and which it is planned to continue."

9. The memorandum which was requested by Mr. Bundy at the Special Group
meeting on February 14, 1961. The minutes state: "Mr. Bundy asked that
a memorandum be prepared for higher authority on the subject of what plans
can be made for a successor government to Trujillo."

10. The reports referred to by the DCE at the Special Group meeting on May 4,
1961. The Minutes state: "The DCI referred to recent reports of a new
anti-Trujillo plot."

il. The "Cuba Paper” mentioned in the Special Group Minutes of May 4, 1961.
The Minutes state: "Mr. Bundy said that this point (anti-Trujillo ploc
planning) is covered in the Cuba Paper which will be discussed at a high
level in the very near future."

(we 12, Any Action Memoranda or other documents which would clarify the action

i taken by the Special Group at the meeting on May 18, 1961. At that meeting,
Gen. Cabal noted that internal dissidents in the Dominican Republic were
pressing for the release to them of certain small arms, "now in U.S. hands
in the Dominican Republic. He inquired whether the feeling of the group
remained that these arms should not be passed. The members showed no
inclination to take a contrary position at this time.” (Ir is not clear
whether a contrary position signified contrary to the desire of the
internal dissidents or contrary to Gen. Cabal's suggestion that these
arms not be passed.) (Source: ‘Special Group Minutes 18 May 1961,02769)

13. A paper on Covert Programs for Cuba was presented by the DCI at the July
20, 1961, Special Group meeting. The paper appeared to be a basic
position paper: Its para. 2a read: "The basic objective is to provide
support to a U.S. program to develop opposition to Castro and to help
bring about a regime acceptable to the U.S." (Source: Minutes dated
July 21, 1961, 02778)

14. On July 27, 1961, the Special Group discussed a CIA paper titled:

"Tntermal Action Operations Against Cuba” dated July 25, 1961. The Group

discussed its relevance to the "basic paper discussed last week.”

(Source: Special Group Minutes July 27, 1961, 02781)

15, On August 3, 1961, the Special Group reviewed "a condensed set of recom-
mendations summing up the proposed Cuban program."' This paper was
( approved for consideration by higher authority. (Source: Special Group
Minutes August 3, 1961, 02782)

RW 50955 Docld:32203746 Page 5


-3-

16. On October 6, 1961, Mr. Parrott told the Special Group that there was
in preparation "a contingency plan in connection with the possible
removal of Castro from the Cuban scene.” (We should obtain this plan
as it may relate to an assassination Plot.) (Source: Special Group

Minutes October 6, 1961, 02783) _

17. On December 8, 1961, Gen. Lansdale Presented "the outline of a program
designed to overthrow the Castro government." (Source: Special Group
Minutes December 8, 1961, 02795)

18. The March 26 Special Group Minutes referred to a "Shipping Sabotage
Paper of 19 March. The proposal reflected in the Paper was remanded
for Group consideration by the Cottrell Committee." (Source: Special
Group Minutes March 26, 1963, 02839) —_—

19. On April 4, 1963, the Special Group approved three papers which were
subsequently approved by “higher authority" on April 9. The papers
were titled "Sabotage of Shipping," "Russian Language Broadcasts,"
and "Propaganda Inciting Cubans within Cuba to Attack Soviet Troops."
(Source: Special Group Minutes April 4, 1963, 02844 and Memo for
Members of the Special Group April 9, 1963, 02845)

20, The Minutes of April 11, 1963, Special Group meeting referred to ee
"Three papers being considered at today's meeting." One of these papers
may deal with sabotage in Cuba as there was a "lengthy discussion" of
the entire question of sabotage at the meeting, Also, the Minutes state:
“The comments from the Coordinator of Cuban Affairs dated 11 April on
the three papers being considered at today’s meeting (were requested by
the group to) be withdrawn and destroyed for security reasons."

Note: We should perhaps make a request for such comments, to determine
whether they were in fact destroyed. (Source: Minutes dated 11 Aprii
1963, 02846)

21. The Minutes of 18 April 1963 indicate the Special Group "turned to dis-
cussion of the papers from the Coordinator of Cuban Affairs dated April
16, 17, and 18." There is no indication of the subject matter of these
Papers. The Minutes state that it was agreed these papers should be
"staffed and sharpened up for Presentation at next week's meeting.”
Note that the Minutes indicate the title of the paper dated April 17,

as “Maximum Covert Action Program" which consists basically of “sabotage

Note further that the Minutes state Mr. Bundy and McCone expressed doubts
as to whether "we are in a Position to decide major problems of this
type (presumably reflected in the three papers) until we have a clearer

Note also that Mr. Bundy stated he was not sure whether “it would be

possible to embark on the activities proposed in the Coordinator's

papers, without a drastic change in U.S. policy." (Source: Minutes

dated 18 April 1963, 02848-49) —_—

HW 50955 Docld:32203746 Page 6 . —


22.

23,

24,

23,

26

27.

=4-

A memorandum for the Special Group dated April 26, 1963, (62853)
which discusses a Paper on "new covert policy and programs toward
Cuba" states that decisions have been made regarding certain of
the item numbers in that paper.

The Minutes of the Special Group meeting on April 25 (02855) refer
to a paper on a “proposed new policy and program toward Cuba."

A memorandum for the Special Group dated June 19, 1963, subject:
“Sabotage Program, Cuba,’ discusses a meeting with higher authority
on that subject at which a "proposed program was approved dealing
with ‘external sabotage’ directed at four major segments of the
Cuban economy: (1) electric power; (2) petroleum refineries and
storage facilities; (3) railroad and highway transportation; and
(4) production and manufacturing." (Source: Memorandum June 19,
1963, 02871)

The Minutes of Special Group meeting on 18 July 1963 state that higher
authority had no objection to a Program recommending a new "political
action” plan for Haiti. Col, King told the Special Group thac
“everyone concerned with the project agrees that Duvalier must be
Yemoved in some manner or other.’ King went on to say that the existing
pian is unworkable and thus it is "best to switch to a different kind
of operation. This would include training of exiles in cross-border
operations with a long-range objective of establishing a clandestine
organization and building an effective Opposition in Haiti."

(Source: Minutes 18 July 1963, 02878)

Minutes of Special Group meeting 15 August 1963 (02880) indicate
the Special Group approved a "Operational Proposal"dated 12 August
1963, relating to "a non-violent program to inhibit free world and
neutral trade with Cuba."

The Minutes of Special Group meeting on August 29, 1963 (02883) state
the Group considered a paper from the Coordinator of Cuban Affairs
dated August 12, 1963, titled “Support of Autonomous Anti-Castro Groups.""

28.)

HW 50955 DocId:32203746 Page 7



More if it sriiy appears desirable in light of the comments at that

meeting and by higher authority, Also note that the Minutes of October

29. The Minutes of November 12, 1963 (02905~08) indicate Mr, Fitzgerald
Teported on Cuban Operations under six main headings. Given the
length of this report, there may have been some formal Paper from which
Fitzgerald spoke, although the minutes do not refer to any particular
piece of Paper.

30. A number of Particular “operations" designated by number and purpose
are mentioned in che minutes of Special Group meetings on 14 November,
5 December, 6 December, 19 December, 20 December, 1963 and January 2
and January 9, 1964, Te desired, we might request the backup Papers
for these Operations. Typical operations wera described as the ex-
filtration of two members of an existing resistance net," the infiltra~
tion of a five-man team for the purpose of Sabotaging a tailway bridge."

31. The Minutes of a Special Group Meeting on February 13, 1964, state the
Special Group discuss "a Specific Department of Defense Paper" which
dealt with, afong others, the following topic: “Harrassment of Free
World Shipping to Cuba," “Covert Economic Activities," “Encouraging
Dissidents Among Factions," “Actions Against Cuban Subversion in Latin
America." Source: Minutes dated 14 February 1964 (02919)

The Minutes of April 3, 1964 (02924) refer to 4 paper entitled "Status
of Sabotage and Raiding Capability Against Cuba." The Minutes also
State that "three Separate papers" were submitted to ali members of the
Group and the Group concluded to approve five infiltration/exfiltration
operations and five caching Operations, but table the five Sabotage

33. 4 memorandum for Mr, Bundy dated 18 June 1964 (02931) refers to a "Helms
Memo to DCT entitled Plans of Cuban Exiles to Assassinate Selected Cuban
Leaders, June 10, 1964,"

34. The Minutes of a meeting on June 18, 1964, (02932) stare that: "A paper
was discussed on alleged plans which involved the underworld to assassinate
certain Cuban leaders." No other identification of this paper is given,
it-may refer to the Helms memo immediately above,

35. The Minutes of July 9, 1964, (02937) indicate that Mr. Bundy read a draft
NSAM “dealing with the establishment of 3 Rew working group to examine
the problem of Cuba."

A memorandun by John McCone to McGeorge Bundy dated August 19, 1965,
Summarizes seven reports regarding the status of an FBI investigation
re "Plans by Cuban Exiles to Assassinate Cuban Government’ Leaders,"
The reports apparently were of interviews by FBr agents of various

36

| individuals allegedly involved in the plans. (Source: 02943-44)

HW 50955 Docld:32203746 Paye 6



37. A memo dated September 3, 1964, refers to a paper titled "Request by
Revolutionary Student Directorate for Permission to Move Personnel
to the Dominican Republic for Purpose of Engaging in Hit and Run Activities
Against Cuba."" (Source: Memo for the Record, 02947)

38. A memo for the record dated 11 September 1964 (02948) states that “basic
veports of the Cuban Study Group established by NSAM 311 of 10 July 1964
were nearing their. final stages and that certain gaps were being closed
between the SNIE findings and those of the Critical Collection Committee.”

HW 50955 Docld:32203746 Page 9
