157-10011-10010)

Date:08/15/92 -
Page:1
! JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
ce IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10010

RECORDS SERIES :

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM : [R]
TO: [R]
7 TITLE :

INDEX CARDS
DATE : 06/00/75

PAGES : 601
SUBJECTS :
OPERATION MONGOOSE (R]
ee 0 [rR]
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93
OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 140, Book 3 of 3, Index Cards, June/July 1975

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId:32203778. Page 1


z ahea eiceo0zze:PIo0g cG6oG AH

SOURCE “hj nutes! Special | Nove: ; STAFF?
‘ x

FILE:

CIAHAS NO OBJECT!
DECLASSIFICATICN Og
RELEASE OF THIS BOUUMIENT

AS SANITIZED AD

OUR ere

PERSONS/ENTITIES: : CATEGORIES:
Mr. Merchant Mr. Gray Nov. 19, 1960 Mongoose

Mr. Mann / Mr. Bissell Special Group

Mr. Douglas Mr. Dulles

General Lansdale

OCCURRENCE? ny, Special Group heard Mr. Merchant state his opinion that the only

solution is to move the Guatemalan train activities to the United States even though
the U. S. could probably not get away with this either. A number of alternative
base sites for the training of the Cu was considered both in the United States,
in Puerto Rico,| or in the Panama Canal zone. Mr. Douglas
felt the "U. S. -@apabITity for Intervention in Cuba will probably not be effective
enough unless there is more overt participation than has been contemplated to date.®-
"Mr. Grey supported this general position, stating that when the current Cuban

plan was approved, the situation in that country was different than it is now.

Since then, the Cubans have received sizeable amounts of bloc arms and have or-
ganized a malitia. Mr. Gray wondered how a few hundred exiles could be."

"Mr. Mann expressed the opinion that the way to proceed is to seal Cuba off from

the rest of Latin America and settle down for a one- or two-year wait..."

Bob Kelley

DATE: June 29, 1975



€ abeq eL.eozze:ploca Gceos aH

CIAHAS NO OBJECTIONTO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR.
RELEASE OF THIS GGCUMENT
AS SANITIZED
- pu G T-
Ce )CB
ERSONS/ENTAY LES: DATES: CATLGORLES:
TIARVEY, WILLIAM  @@MHNE Reereey NONGOOSI!
MCCONE
HELMS 11/3/62 S6-A
MATATIAMBRE COPPER MINES

OCCURRENCE? Harvey states, "On 3 November, 1962, a frapmentarygee fgg report was
received, reflecting the arrests by the Cuban authorities in Panar del Rio, of the
infiltrees. It was impossible to determine, definitely, whether this report
referred to the two members of the Matahambre sabotage team."

SOURCE:

TAFF: Pay

11/14/62, Memorandum of William Harvey, (00757)

FILE: DATE: = 6/30/75


_F abea ghicozze:prood Gceoc BH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

& 4
Pesca

DATES: CATEGORIES:

PERSONS/ENTITIES ;

ITA HAM BR So?

Lansdale (Gilpatric >
Bundy McCone
Johnson Taylord
RFK Parrot

OCCURRENCE:

\
14 Nov 62 MONGOOSE

Lansdale states, "On October 30-31 for an 'Eyes Only’ back-
ground memorandum requested by Rosgwell Gilpatric, information was requested
from CIA on the current status of all operations. CIA reported all militant
operations have been ordered held at a stop, although the volatile Cubans
were frustrated and not under complete control. The Matahambre operation on

ao was not mentioned by the CIA in reporting in operational teams inside Cuba, wo

oo although I asked for specifics on militant teams inside. Two action teams
CIA reported as being inside Cuba were described as in place only collecting
intelligence, not actions, (sabotage,etc. )*

A hand-written note next to the above statement by Lansdale reads,"Harvy/
say he did not ask."

SOURCE: [StarR?

PGW 6/30
DATE:

14 Nov 62 special memo for the Special’ Group’ ’
Augmented, prepared by Brig. Gen. Lansdale (00761)

PILE:



g abea SLLEOSZE*PIOOCG CosEOc AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED :

& € thr

Co)

CATEGORIES:
atyat :
MONGOOSE —

{ S6&A

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
eo |
MCCONE i ik

CASTRO

OCCURRENCE:

MCCONE TESTIFIED that the SGA approved a program to contaminate with Carbon dust

cylinders in trucks and locomotives which CASTRO has purchased ffrom@Eurdpe# This

was to be done at the time of shipment. The program met with some success. MCCONE

could not recall where the actual sabotage of the purchased equipment took place (22-23).

McCone, Testimony, 6/6/75

pate: 6/27/75


9 abed SLLeozze:PIo0d GceOG BH

BJECTION TO
GeLaSSrcATON AO NNT
RELEASE OF THIS $ DOCUM

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
MCCONE 4

CATEGORIES:

MONGOOSE

OCCURRENCE:

MeCone testified that he recalled thit activity to sabotage _the shipment of spare
parts

to Cuba. He did not recall whether it was pare parts. (23).

STAPF:

McCone, Testimony, 6/6/75 Rhea

PILE: DATES. 6/27/75


i abed. SLee0zze:PIo0d ge6os BH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

* RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

6 hele
FSS

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES:

CATEGORIES:

Dec 1961 Castro

‘ Ses
Halscrn
Nelms

1961, described to Halpern a meetine at the director's
cone had stated that Melis would henceforth “he his nan oon
hg told Walpern that felis. had no inkling that he swonld be
the Cuban ope j ore this meeting (13).  Sometine
eting Helms cane to office, chekced into the oreanization
Popcrations and direetéd €

| Cuba would be a
rt of the Ml Division (14).

SOURCE: STAFF;
Halpern 6/18/75

“nest

PILE: pare: 7/1/75

eparate activity waf TTT


8 ahed SiLeocze:Plood cceoc AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE.OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

© Apr A
Osea)

PERSONS/ENTITIFS: | CATEGORIES:
MCCONE FITZGERALD ' SGA
BUNDY PAPICH \ MONGOOSE
JESSUP RFK CASTRO

STEAKLEY JMWAVE
JMWAVE VANCE

OCCURRENCE: according to the minutes of the 303 Committee on 7/ 30/64,"It was agreed
that MR, FITZGERALD would contact SAM PAPICHof the FBI in regard to the earlier report
of an alleged plot with Mafia overtones to assassinate Castro and which the AG agreed
to handle as a matter of law enforcement.’ (116)" The reference is clearly to a 6/10/64
memorandum information report from the DDP to. the Director," (116) which was dissemin-_
“ated to the Spec. Asst. to the Pres. for Natl. Security Affrs.; ASst. Sect. for Inter-.-

American Affairs,Dept. of State; Dir. of Intell. and Research, State Dept.; Director,

- DIA; The AG; the Director, FBI; DDCI and the DCI. The 6/10/74 report"'related a proposal
for the assassination of castro that was made to prominent Cuban exiles._The,Mafia app-
eared to be anvolved in the scheme," The asking price was. $150,000. - SOSE:-MARL 10» O: PERING

EeSONOE (ERGY would contribute $50,000. BOSCH approached the Chief of
suggested the U.S. govermment also contribute, This was rejected,
CIA's only involvement_was_to-report—info fi i

‘SOORE ct record of incident found by IG Rept. is memo from

reporting:the results of FBI intvws with the alleged participayts ibyiously nothing
” Same oF the plot."(117) DATE

FILE Baron, 7/1/75

IG REPORT 1967

{

ts existence,"
MeEde"to Bundy, 8/19/64,


6 abeg SLLeosce: Ploeg SG60c AH

CCONE, HARVEY,

ts

Pp RSONS/ENTIVIRS :

oN

|AS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION ANDOR. 1
RELEASE OF THIS DOCU
AS SANITIZED

a q Ap 4
Oa)

DATES: CATEGORIFS:
sols SS ORTES
July 10, 1962 | MONGOOSE
lune yes 3962 |

Site —1962~
May=962

€ nature of the
» she contacted ‘Ruz dand obtained
cal leadership and to work
activity which m

‘ight result in
rrangements were being made for


; zee: G AH
OT a6ea eizedezeiproca seo

PERSONS/ENTITTES.
- SSHSONS/ENTITIES
MICO

2

by Castro
July, Tay.

t
EJapanesd purchases of Dominica
from Ciba.

1A HAS NO OBJECTION TO
Dectace FICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOGUMENT
AS SANITIZED

RE © pr 4
CeCe)
© tt)

CATEGORIES:
ES

|
| Speciay Group Augmented
MONGOOSE

Air resupply

Opposition."
On subversive



ccé6oc MH

LTE aBeg . 922€0¢ze:pr004q

; 7 10
NO OBJECTION
Geassigcaio
RELEASE “ ;
SANITIZE.
ASANTE fhe Ie

DATES: CATEGORIES:

SPECIAL GROUP
MONGOOSE

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

PRESIDENT KENNEDY
LefocoNe

FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD July 25,1962 |

OCCURRENCE? “Hoims notes that McCone briefed the panel of the President's foreign
intelligence advisory board on political action projects. He pointed out that"each project
must have his approval to the “circulation to the’ members of the Special Group". For
example, reconnasiance overflights are now approved, covert financial support
Helms “read to the panel
a paper on the operation Mongoose which theDirector had used earlier in the day for giving ©
. @ briefing to the President.” .

SOURCE: Memorandum for the record, re meeting on CA matters STAPF:
with the panel of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory i diGenova
Board of Helms, dated July 25, 1962 (00870) tare:

qane


Zt abed SLLe0eze Ploeg GceOoc AH

MCCONE
BUNDY
JESSUP

STEAKLEY JMWAVE

JMWAVE

10

B JECTION

outs NO ORTON ANDIOR

et oF THIS DOSE
SANITIZED

eo Mr 4

ae >)

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: | CATEGORIES:
i
t
'

FITZGERALD SGA
APAPICH MONGOOSE
RFK

VANCE i F

OCCURRENCE: According to the minutes of the 303 Committee on 7/30/64,"It was’ agreed
that MR, FITZGERALD would contact SAM PAPICHof the FBI in regard to the earlier report
of an alleged plot with Mafia overtones to assassinate Castro and which the AG agreed

to handle as a matter of law enforcement." (116)" The reference is clearly to a 6/10/64
memorandum information report from the DDP. to the Director,’ (116) which was dissemin-
ated to the Spec. Asst. to the Pres. for Natl. Security Affrs.; ASst. Sect. for Inter-
American Affairs,Dept. of State; Dir. of Intell. and Research, State Dept.; Director,

. DIA; The AG; the Director, FBI; DDCI and the DCI. The 6/10/74 report'related a proposal

for the assassination of Castro that was made to prominent Cuban exiles. The Mafia.app-
be anvolved_in the scheme." The asking frice was_$150,000.- E
would contribute $50,000. approached the Chief of

Station, JNWAVE, and suggested the U.S. govermment also contribute. This was rejected.
7 ae ClAi : . : — ; tt

SOURCE ast record of incident found by IG Rept. is memo from MeGdto Bundy, 8/19/64,
reporting:the results of FBI intvws with the alleged participayts."OQbviously nothing
came of the plot.'"(117) : DATE:

BLUE: IG REPORT 1967 Baron, 7/1/75



eT abed ‘BLLEOZZE:PII0G So60S MH

DATES: CATEGORIES:

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

McNAMARA
SPECIAL GRP.

August 10-11

CASTRO
1962 .

B
aa
5
Q
fe}
Ss
°g
>
5
me
is}
a)
>
ao
wn
ey

that the term "assassina was eo in the discussion of "A. M. LASH's future role
in Cuba and it visibly upset » Who. preferred the term “eliminate.” (85).
DISCOVERY LEADS: Note: “uhis discussion of assassination is taking place
at the same time that DCI McCONE lodges his objection, after the SPECIAL GROUP
(AUGMENTED) meeting, to McNAMARA's ®3i mot aN g chnique of assassination
could be used against CASTRO. Maa EB

SOURCE: IG REPORT, 1967 STAFF: Baron

FILE: DATE: 7/2/75



FI afta -@LLe0zZe:pTo0g Gc6os BH

onto,
ONO
CASS soot VGUNENT

See ( Apr

i oe)

om

CATEGORIES:

: PERSONS/ENTITIFS: DATES:
MCCONE* FITZGERALD 8719/64
BUNDY —- PAPICH JOSEE -

JESSUP RFK
STEAKLEY JMWAVE
JMWAVE VANCE

~ AeA ++
OCCURRENCE: According to the minutes of the 303 Committee on 7/30/64; It’ was ‘agreed
that MR. FITZGERALD would contact SAM PAPICHof the FBI in regard to the earlier report
of an alleged plot with Mafia overtones to assassinate Castro and which the AG agreed
to handle as a matter of law enforcement.'' (116)'"' The reference is clearly to a 6/10/64
memorandum information report from the DDP to the Director,‘ (116) which was dissemin-
ated to the Spec. Asst. to the Pres. for Natl. Security Affrs.; ASst. Sect. for Inter-
American Affairs,Dept. of State; Dir. of Intell. and Research, State Dept.; Director,

- DIA; The AG; the Director, FBI; DDCI and the DCI. The 6/10/74 report"'related a proposal
for the assassination of Castro that was made to prominent Cuban e ,
eared to be mnvolved in the scheme." The asking frice was $150,000, 4

would contribute $50,000. am ee the Chief of
Station, JMVAVE, and suggested the U.S. govermnent also contribute. This was rejected.
CIA! involvement _was_to_re}

ord indicates {its existence." _
SOURCE Yast record of incident found by IG Rept. is memo from Meddie! to Bundy, 8/19/64,
sveporting:the results of FBI intvws with the alleged particip tee wnbyiously nothing
Gane of the plot. "(1179
FILE: IG REPORT 1967

“Paron, T/V/75 ©


GT. aed siLeozze:Prooa se6os BH

ac NO OBJECTION 10
CIAHAS NO On ny AND/OR
DECLASSIECATS DOCUMENT

issanesd [Apel ft
we)

PEKSONS/ENTITIES : DATES: i CATEGGKLES :

TIARVEY, WILLIAM COMENE “LEO MONGOOSE
MCCONE
TIEIMS 11/3/62 SEA

MATAHAMBRE COPPER MINES

OCCURRENCE: Harvey states, "On 3 November, 1962, a fragmentary @G@ilhis report was
received, reflecting the arrests by the Cuban authorities in Panar del Rio, of the
infiltrees. It was impossible to determine, definitely, whether ‘this report
referred to the two members of the Matahambre sabotage team.""° .°:

SOURCE: 41/14/62, Memorandum of William Ilarvey, (00757)

FILE: “ DATE: 6/30/75


OT abed SiLeoeze:PII0ed CoEOs AH

me

ar coll basdfomd. (cl)

Mr. Parrot

REK thy.
McGeorge Bundy Mr. Wilson

Nd

Oct 9, 19624 Special Group (Augmented)

sir. Johnson Dr. Charyl:
tir. Gilpatric = Pr. Scoville
Gan. Taylor Col. Steakley Woag eose

OCCURRENC
SGA discusso] various possibilities of accomplishing reconaissance of Cuba, ranging Crom
very low level coverage hy tactical aircraft to high performance aircraft and drones. Over-
flights and peripheral flights were discussed.

It was agreed that the first priority is one high performance iaission in the western part of ¥
the island, to be accompanied by all out WLint support.:Nepending on the results of this,
a number of similar scarches may be mounted. First mission was later approved by higher
authority, but the decision on the second proposition left open.

The entire package was to be discussed at the .USIB, and by fs on Wednesday, October 10th,

Mewiorandaia

J meeting of
L by thowas Parrot.

(M2821)


ET abed BLLEOCTEPIOOG CGeOs AH

HAS NO OBJECTION TO
SP CLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS |

Por Ye)

PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:

JOHNSON
KILPATRICK MONGOOSE -
MCCONE wv Sept.16,1963 SPECIAL GROUP

OCCURRENCE:

On September 16, 1963 a.m eandum reported that "all members of the special group
have approved project New nawelnpaet oF COmWaChIecer RACtLVETES) in the
area of Cuba.)"

SOURCE: STAFF:
Memorandum dated 16 September 1963 for members of

the Special Group from Mr. Parrott Kelley
PILE: DATE:

KSIR/TR


“aT abea eceveee:pioca se6oc aN

CIA HAS NO 0 OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

UC tpn
Posey

a

DATES:

_PERSONS/ENTITIES:
ria Gua July 23, 1964

Bundy me COOTER
Thompson Tews ee

Vance
McCone %

CATEGORIES:

Duvalier
Special Group/303

On July 23, 1964 the 303 Committee met and discussed Haiti. "At the present time
there is no U.S. involvement with the insurgency effort_against the Duvalier regime.'
the IS CHE, HEI ,

SOURCE:
Memorandum for the record, July 24, 1964, Minutes of 303 Commit
tee. megting , July 23, 1964

Case

Kelley

DATE? jme 30, 1975


6T shea “@LLE0ZZE:PIO0G = GcENs AN

NO OBJECTION 70

a JOR
IFICATION AND/
OE EASe OF THIS ‘DOCUMENT

es CATEGORIES:

McNAMARA /
SPECIAL GRP.
(AUGMENTED)

August 10-11
1962

Je i
that the term “Hascassinate’’ was used in the discussion of ny ._ LASH's future role
in Cuba and it visibly upset A.M. LASH, who. preferred the term “eliminate.” (85).

DISCOVERY LEADS: Note: This discussion of assassination is taking place “~~”

at the same time that DCI McCONE lodges his objection, after the SPECIAL GROUP

(AUGMENTED) meeting, to McNAMARA's p 8 iy Ra of assassination

could be used against CASTRO.
STAFF: Baron

SOURCE: 1G REPORT, 1967

FILE: . DATE: 7/2/75


0z aHea ‘sLbedzze:PIOog sseos AH

” GIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
SECLASSIFICATION AND/OR '
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED hs (( 14
C1) C8
PERSONS/ENTITIFS: DATES: CATEGORIES:
BISSELL Aug. 12, 1960 | MONGOOSE 7
DULLES Special Group
GRAY
MERCHANT (7
OCCURRENCE:

On August 12, 1960 the Special Group heard a

summary of the budget for Cuban

operations from MR. BISSELL. . Approximately Gigygmiiebion)dollars were required
to finance Cuban operations for the fiscal year and a balance 0 GEG was

. hecessary for the remainder of the fiscal year. Major subheadings in the budget |

were (1) political action, (2) propaganda, (3) paramilitary, (4) intelligence
collection, (5) counterintelligence, (6) communications support,’ (7) support.

PRET os

It was agreed "This matter should be laid before the appropriate higher authori-

ties and a presentation would be arranged hopefully within the
next 10 days. This was believed to be wise, not because any
(continued) :

STAFF:

if ; vies
cial (Gro ain Augyst 12, 1960 DATE; Robert Kelley
PEARS va y . June 29, 1975


Te abeg “SLEENZZETPIOOG Ge6Os BH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED
oe Te apa
CCA)

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
MURPHY LYMAN 4/23/63 CUBA
KILPATRICK

SPECIAL GROUP

ONGEONR
FITZGERALD

e entourape

Tipsaced Jct she ee a

Hl

SOURCE: | STAPF:
Memorandun, dated 4/23/63, prepared by Lyman and _—

Kilpatrick. WALLACH
FILE: DATE: 7/2/75


ze abeaq eseLeozze:plo0d Gc6e0s AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

| Eo Ae

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: | CATEGORIES:
ei GROUP AUGMENTED, MONGOOSE, | July 5, 1962 | MONGOOSE

CPANSDALE) TAYLOR, JOHNSON, GIL- ; Special Group Augmented
hs PATRICK, MCCONE, RFK, LEMNITZER
Aakeos , Lopez gf

(OCCURRENCE: President Kennedy's visit to Mexico greatly enhanced U.S. goodwill in
_s; Mexico. It fulfilled U.S. plans to impress upon Castro that Mexico is solidly with the

| United States and the West. State believes this should ease the way for future discussions
about Cuba with the Mexicans. Re: Operation MONGOOSE, the joint communique issued by
President Kennedy and President Lopez Mateos included a phrase which was 'They proposed
to respect and maintain the principles of non intervention--whether this intervention
smay come from a continental or extracontinental state--and of self-determination of
“~peoples.'' In response to a Lansdale query, the Department of State noted that ''There
. were no developments resulting from the President's trip to Mexico including the text
of the joint United States-Mexico communique which alter, the basic guidelines which govern
the Cuba Project." Lansdale noted that the CIA now had@as@Asatanswin Havana operating.

In addition there are agents and teams in the provinces. "Voice of Cuba"! broadcasts from
the U.S. Navy submarine were successful. ‘It is noted that UPI carried this news item

but spiced it up with added stories of Castro's use of militia against guerillas in Pantarzas.
g ¥en at other opentint STAPF : cor tatiy Prong

on

SOURCE: The & sherier pe yey OT tee Gate 19
and Ke Wore of Cube! O° One ate oe Horse the Special Group Augmented Te: ~paed Aa fear Gucdednes.'

MONGOOSE progress from Lansdale, July 5, 1962 (00406-00408) di Genova
FILE: DATE: July 1, 1975



ee ‘abe’ SLLeozZe: pIo0d So60S MH

1A HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

2G Ante
Foxes

PERSONS/ENTITIES: : DATES: CATEGORIES:
SPECTAL~GROUP-AUGMENTED, MONGOOSE, | July 19, 1962 { Special Group Augmented
TAYLOR; —-RFK5-JOHNSON;~MARTIN,, ; MONGOOSE

GILPATRICK, LEMNITZERS (MCCO

-PARROTT;~LANSDALE,—HURWETCH™
OCCURRENCE:

McCone explained the situation which has resulted in a group led by

Senor, BosehWacquiring B-26's which are now in Costa Rica prepared to conduct a bombing

raid on Cuba. The group discussed a draft State Department cable to various Latin
American embassies related to this incident. It was agreed that the point should be
made in the cable that any such contemplated raid would be premature at this time. Dis-
association of the United States from any such endeavor was to be accomplished by leaking

_ stories of the impending raid to the press.

SOURCE: STAFF:

Memorandum for the record, Minutes of meeting
of the Special Group (Augmented) on Operation MONGOOSE, 19 di Genova
Whiz: 1962 (00033) DATE: July 2, 1975
