# 176-10036-10024

## Page 1

176-10036-10024

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10024

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Cabinet Opposition to Congo Government

DATE : 3/17/1963

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Congo Cables; restriction information innacurate/missing; box 1

---

## Page 2

1006/17

Nor fall d

I ESF

: ESI

11412

171428Z

I CIA/

• WHITE HOUSE

TN: INTERNATIONAL SITUATION ROOM

1963 MAR 17 .

10

08

RECEIVED

"M

NOFOR"

ECRET NOFORN

'UNTRY

FILE

•PORI NO.

IBJECT

:

REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

:

:

CABINET OPPOSITION TO CONGO GOVERNMENT RESHUFFLE

ITE DISTR.

RECEDENCE

: 17 MARCH 1963

: PRIORITY

ITE OF INFO.

:

¿FERENCES

:

•ACE. & DATE ACO.:

•PRAISAL

:

16 MARCH 1963

CONGO, LEOPOLDVILLE (16 MARCH 1963).

3

•ELD REPORT NO. :

JURCE

:

1. ON 16 MARCH 63 THE OTHER MEMBERS OF THE CABINET UNANIMOUSLY

"POSED SUGGESTIONS PUT FORWARD BY PREMIER CYRILLE ADOULA FOR A

-SHUFFLE OF MINISTERIAL LEVEL POSITIONS IN GOVI.

COMMENT:

IMMUNICATION DIFFICULTIES PREVENTED

GIVING A

:TAILED ACCOUNT OF THE ADOULA PROPOSALS. THE MEETING ENDED WITHOUT

IY DECISION BUT WITH AN AGREEMENT TO HOLD ANOTHER CABINET MEETING

117 MARCH, AT WHICH IT APPEARED LIKELY THAT ALL MINISTERS WOULD

IND IN THEIR RESIGNATIONS TO ADOULA.

2. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINCLANT.

SP- 1

NOFORM

i00 1500

---

