# 176-10036-10140

## Page 1

176-10036-10140

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER

: 176-10036-10140

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : CIA Information Report

DATE : 9/23/1963

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam,9/22/63-10/6/63. Box 2

---

## Page 2

KAVIA OKMATION REI JRT TELEGRAM

SEE

SANITIZED

VERSION

NL4-82-56

Phis material.

793 and 794.

contains information allecting

S-E-C-R-E-T

COUNTRY

SOUTH VIETNAM

. SUBJECT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

National Detenner to the

United States withia

an unauthorited

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/656, 792

DATE DISTR. 23 SEPTEMBER 1963

S068

PHAM NGOC THAO'S COUP GROUP'S STRATEGY;

HIS OPINION OF THE ARMY GENERALS; AND,

HIS BELIEF THAT NGO DINH NHU COMPARES

WELL WITH COMMUNISTS

13 SEPTEMBER 1963 AND AS STATED

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

'APPRAISAL

REFERENCES

IN

VIEINAM, SAIGON (13 SEPTEMBER 1963)

SEE BELOW

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

APPR

PHAM NGOC THAO'S GROUP PROBABLY IS PLANNING A COUP D'ETAT AGAINST THE DIEM REGIME,

BUT WHETHER OR NOR THEY EVER ACHIEVE THE RIGHT COMBINATION OF UNITS TO TAKE ACTION

CANNOT BE ASSESSED. THAO'S OPINION OF TEE ARMY OF THE REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM GENERALS

IS PROBABLY ACCURATE IN. CERTAIN INSTANCES.

THAO'S JUDGMENTLOF. NGO DINH NEU'S

PERSONALIIY AND CHARACIER IS POSSIBLY. ACCURAJE SINCE THAO IS A FORMER VIETNAMESE

COMMUNIST.

I. SUMMARY, LIEUIENANT COLONEL PRAM NGOC THAO, SPECIAL INVESTIGAIOR OF

SIRATEGIC HAMLETS FOR THE PRESIDENCY, SAID ON 13 SEPTEMBER 1963 THAT THE COUP

D'ETAI PLANNING OF HIS GROUP IS PROGRESSING WELI, BUT THAI IT WILL NOT TAKE ACTION

UNTIE, IT IS REASONABLY CERIAIN OF SUCCESS: THAO MAINTAINED THAT THE SOUTH

VIEINAMESE GENERALS ARE UNDEPENDABLE AS THEY ARE AFRAID OF LOSING THEIR PRIVILEGED

POSITIONS. HE ALSO CLAIMED THAI NGO DINH NEU WAS SIMILAR TO A COMMUNIST AS NEU.

IS ALSO DEVIOUS, DISRESPECTFUL OF LEGALITY, AND WILL DO ANYTHING IO FURTHER HIS

OWN GOALS:

S-E-C-R-E-T

STATE/INR

STATE/DIR

DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY

AIR

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO:FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND

USE ONLY

GROUP !

Encluded team outomate

doungrading and

declassfirsion

JCS

SECDEF

OCI ONE

TELEG PAME

INFORMATION REPORT

00

EXO

TELEGRAM

FOR 1Kb. OSSQLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

113-20

---

## Page 3

2

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

(When Filled 1n)

BACKGROUND USE ONLY

TDCSDB-3/656,,792

IN

PAGE TWO

2. COLONEL THAO SAID THAT THE COUP D'ETAI GROUP TO WHICH HE BELONGS IS

PLANNING CAREFULLY AND MOVING CAUTIOUSLY TOWARD A COUP SINCE THEY WISH TO BE

REASONABLY CERTAIN OF SUCCESS. HE STATED THAT THE GROUP WILL TAKE ACTION WHEN

THE RIGHT COMBINATION OF UNITS IS ACHIEVED.

HE CLAIMED THAT THE MOVEMENT OF

MILITARY UNIIS TO SUPPORT AN ATTEMPTED COUP WAS GOING FAIRLY WELL AND THAT THE

GROUP WAS NOW TRYING TO OBTAIN THE SUPPORT OF THE ARMORED UNITS. IN SAIGON, WHICH

WOULD MAKE A SUCCESSFUL: COUP MUCH EASIER TO ATTAIN AND WOULD CAUSE LESS BLOODSHED.

3. THAO REMARKED THAT THE DEPARTURE OF IRAN KIM TUYEN, FORMER DIRECTOR OF

THE PRESIDENTIAL SECURITY SERVICE, FROM SOUTH VIETNAM WILL PROBABLY HAVE AN

ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE TUYEN GROUP COUP D'ETAT PLANNING, BUT MIGHT PROVE HENEFICIAI

TO THAO'S GROUP AS NGO DINE NHU MICHT RELAX IN THE KNOWLEDGE THAT ONE OF THE

GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM'S MOST DANGEROUS ENEMIES IS OUT OF THE WAY.

4. THAO MAINTAINED THAT THE GENHRALS OF THE ARMY OF THE REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

ARE UNDEPENDABLE; THEY CLAIM THAI THEY ARE AWAITING A POSITIVE INDICATION THAT THE

NGO FAMILY IS PLACING PRESERVATION OF THEIR OWN PERSONAL POWER ABOVE THAT OF THE

COUNTRY, AND/OR POSITIVE PROOF THAT NHU IS DEALING WITE THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF

VIETNAM. THAO REMARKED THAI THESE ARE MERELY EXCUSES AND THAT THE GENERALS ARE

AFRAID OF LOSING PRIVILEGED POSITIONS.

5. THAO REMARKED THAT, IN HIS OPINION, NHU MIGHT THINK THAT HE CAN MAKE A

DEAL WITH THE COMMUNISTS AND END UP BY TRICKING THEM. THAO CLAIMED, HOWEVER, THAI

IF NHU ACTUAIIY BELIEVES SUCH A THING, HE IS VERY MUCE MISTAKEN. THAO STATED THAI

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET ON: NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

(When Filled, In)

BACKGROUND USE ONLY

TDCS DB=3/656, 792

IN

PAGE THREE

NHU COMPARED WELL WITH HIGH-RANKING COMMUNISTS, BUT THAI HE MAKES UNILATERAL

DECISIONS WHILE THE COMMUNISTS MAKE DECISIONS ONLY AFTER DISCUSSIONS, THUS

PRECLUDING SERIOUS ERRORS. THAO SAID THAT, WHEN SPEAKING WITH NHU, HE HAS OFTEN

FELT THAT HE WAS SPEAKING WITH A COMMUNIST SINCE NEU IS ALSO DEVIOUS, DISRESPECT-

FUL, OF. LEGALITY; AND WILL DO ANYTHING TO FURTHER HIS OWN GOATS.

6.

THAO COMMENIED THAT. NHU RECENILY TOLD THAI LANG. NGHLEM, A CLOSE FRIEND

OF NHU, THAT HE WAS GOING TO DO SOMETHING SOON THAT WOULD BE VERY SURPRISING,

BUT THAT IT WAS TOO EARLY TO DIVULGE WHAT HE HAS IN MIND. THAO HAD NO IDEA WHAT

NHU HAD IN MIND, BUT SPECULATED THAT IT MIGHT BE SOMETHING TO DO WITH NORTH

VIETNAM.

7. FIELD DISSEM.

STATE USMAÇV CINCPAC ARPAC PACAF PACFLT.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

.. .....a...

.....

---

