# 176-10010-10134

## Page 1

1176-10010-10134]

JFK Assassination System

• Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2016

AGENCY: NARA

RECORD NUMBER: 176-10010-10134

RECORD SERIES : NSF

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

WH

TO:

TITLE: MESSAGE

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

09/10/1961

7

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS:

1C

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: UPON AGENCY REVIEW

COMMENTS :

NSF:CO:Cuba, Miro Cardona, Material Sent to Palm Beach:Box 45

-v9.l

23

---

## Page 2

THURSDAY DICK GOODWIN ASKED ME TO COME TO HIS OFFICE

TO HEAR MIRE'S ACCOUNT

OF THE BERLE-SCHLESINGER MISSION

TO NEW YORK BEFORE THE INVASION OF CUBA. US NEWS AND

WORLD REPORT HAD REPRINTED A STORY CLAIMING THAT THE CUBAN

REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL HAD NEVER BEEN TOLD THERE WOULD BE

NO US MILITARY SUPPORT. IN A LETTER TO US NEUS,

STEWART ALSOP HAD DENIED THIS, SAYING THAT SCHLESINGER

AND BERLE HAD INFORMED MIRO OF THIS AND HAD ASSUMED. THAT

HE IN TURN HAD INFORMED THE COUNCIL, MIRO NOW CLAIMED.

• TO GOODWIN AND ME THAT BERLE IN A DINNER AT HIS GEORGETOWN

HOUSE HAD PROMISED THAT 15, 000 US TROOPS WOULD BE: AVAILABLE

TO HELP THE CUBANS, AND THAT HE HAD MADE CLEAR AT, THE

CENTURY CLUB LUNCHEON THAT NOTHING WE WERE SAYING

SUPERSEDED THAT PROMISE. MIRO ACCORDINGLY WENT AWAY FROM

THAT LUNCHEON, HE NOW

1 SAYS, CONVINCED THAT, DESPITE WHAT

THE PRESIDENT HAD SAID AT HIS PRESS. CONFERENCE AND

DESPITE WHAT WE HAD SAID TO HIM THEN, THE INVASION WOULD

STILL GET DIRECT US MILITARY SUPPORT.

THIS ALL SEEMS FANTASY TO ME, SINCE I CANNOT IMAGINE

BERLE MAKING ANY SUCH ASSURANCES (UNLESS HE SUPPOSED

THAT, ONCE THE INVASION STARTED, THE MARINES WOULD BE

DRAGGED INg. REGARDLESS OF ALL INTENTIONS. TO THE CONTRARY)•

HOWEVER, ONE MEMORY SUGGESTS THAT THERE MAY HAVE BEEN

A GENUINE MISUNDERSTANDING. I CAN RECALL THAT TRACY BERNES

CALLED ME THE NEXT DAY AND ASKED WHETHER BERLE HAD SAID

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

ANYTHING ABOUT 15,000 TROOPS--THAT MIRO HAD COME AWAY

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT,

618786.

FROM THE LUNCH WITH SOME IMPRESSION THAT US TROOPS MIGHT

ENTER THE PICTURE: AS I TOLD BARNES AT THE TIME, MY ONLY

RECOLLECTION OF SUCH A FIGURE WAS IN CONNECTION WITH

SUPPLIES-- THAT, ONCE THE BEACHHEAD WERE ESTABLISHED,

The Department of State has no objectior

release or declassification of this documer

under the provisions of the JFK Assassinatior

Collection Act of 1992 (PL102-526)

Reviowed on B00/9/

BERLE HAD SAID THAT ARMS FOR 15, 000 MEN WOULD BE

---

## Page 3

TOMBAY SOMEONESE MOBANION

EXPLICIT US COMMITMENT TO A NEW INVASION. "I CANNOT ASK

MY PEOPLE, " HE SAID, "TO ENGAGE IN UNDERGROUND WORK AND

IN SABOTAGE UNLESS I KNOW DEFINITELY THAT THESE ACTIONS

ARE LEADING TO/CLEARLY DEFINED AND AGREED-ON CLIMAX.

I CANNOT GO AS CHAIRMAN OF THE

COUNCIL UNLESS THERE IS

A CLEAR COMMITMENT THAT THE US WILL PARTICIPATE IN AN

EVENTUAL INVASION OF CUBA. I HAVE BEEN DELUGED WITH PLEAS

FROM WIDOWS AND FAMILIES OF THOSE WHO TOOK PART IN THE

APRIL TRAGEDY. MY OWN SON IS IN CASTRO'S PRISONS. THE

*PROGRAM YOU ARE PRESENTING TO ME IS A PROLOGUE AND

NOTHING MORE. THERE IS NO POINT IN A PROLOGUE UNLESS ONE

IS SURE WHAT THE CONCLUSION WILL BE:"

GOODWIN: "WE UNDERSTAND AND SYMPATHIZE WITH DR MIRO'S

POSITION® WE SHARE HIS DESIRE FOR AN OVERTHROW OF THE

CASTRO REGIME. WE HAVE PREPARED A PROGRAM OF ACTION TO

THAT END. BUT WE CANNOT COMMIT THE US GOVERNMENT TO SOMETHING

_SO FAR-REACHING AS AN INVASION OF CUBA IN THE INDEFINITE

FUTURE. MILITARY ACTION IN THE FUTURE MAY OR MAY NOT

BE POSSIBLE OR NECESSARY. BUT, IF WE CONTINUE TO WORK

TOGETHER---AND• I HOPE WE CAN---IT MUST BE ON THE BASIS OF

THE SAME GOALS AND THE SAME HOPES. WE MUST DO ALL WE CAN.

•IN THE INTERESTS OF THE CAUSE FOR WHICH WE FIGHT. A COMMIIMENT

FOR THE INDEFINITE FUTURE UNDER CONDITIONS WHICH NO ONE:

CAN BE WISE ENOUGH TO FORESEE CANNOT BE MADE AT THIS TIME)"

MIRE: "I UNDERSTAND YOUR VIEW--YOU MUST UNDERSTAND

MINE. IF THERE CAN BE NO COMMITMENT. I HAVE NO ALTERNATIVE

BUT TO PREPARE A LETTER TO PRESIDENT KENNEDY SAYING THAT

I CANNOT CONTINUE AS HEAD ÓF THE COUNCIL. THE PROGRAM IS

INADEQUATE BOTH BECAUSE OF THE LACK OF ULTIMATE

DEFINITIONS OF WHAT IS TO TAKE PLACE AND ALSO BECAUSE OF

I ANY ME PANTOMI NUED DOMDAME NE DONDAGANDA ANN

rds

---

## Page 4

IF THERE IS ANYTHING UNSATISFACTORY IN THE MEMORANDUM,

WE CAN DISCUSS IT. THIS

MEMORANDUM REPRESENTS AN ATTEMPT

IN GOOD FAITH TO MEET THE POINTS YOU HAVE PREVIOUSLY

MADE TO US. * •

MIRO: " I STILL FEEL THAT THE ARRANGEMENT FOR

PROPAGANDA IS UNSATISFACTORY---THAT EVEN IF I COULD INFLUENCE

ITS BROAD ORIENTATION, IT WOULD STILL NOT BE WELL

PREPARED. ALSO I WOULD HAVE NO CONTROL OVER A PORTION OF

THE CLANDESTINE ACTIVITIES• ONCE OTHER GROUPS LEARN THEY

CAN BYPASS THE COUNCIL AND GET DIRECT ASSISTANCE FROM THE

US GOVERNMENT, THE RESULT WILL BE A PROLIFERATION

OF GROUPS WHICH WILL BE DAMAGING BOTH TO PRESENT OPERATIONS

AND TO THE, POLITICAL FUTURE OF CUBA. THESE THINGS, ON

TOP OF A LACK OF FAITH IN THE ULTIMATE END, LEAD ME TO •

FEEL NEGATIVE ABOUT PROCEEDING ON THIS BASIS. I HAVE

EXPRESSED MY VIEWS. NOW I WILL GO TO BALTIMORE TO MEDITATE

MY FINAL DECISION. MY LETTER WILL BE COURTEOUS AND

RESPECTFUL, BUT MY PRESENT CONVICTION IS THAT MY RESPONSE

MUST BE A RESIGNATION. *

GOODWIN: " THERE IS NO QUESTION THAT THE FIGHT WILL

GO ON. THE ONLY QUESTION IS WHETHER WE CAN CONDUCT IT

WITH DR MIRO'S INDISPENSABLE COOPERATI ON. *

MIRO: * IF I RESIGN FROM THE CRC, I DO NOT WITHDRAW

FROM THE FIGHT."

GOODWIN: "IT WILL ALL BE VERY DIFFERENT WITHOUT

DR MIRO AS THE HEAD OF THE GROUP. YOUR LEADERSHIP IS

NECESSARY FOR BOTH THE CLARIFICATION OF PURPOSE AND THE

FACILITATION OF THE STRUGGLE. NO ONE ELSE CAN STEP INTO

YOUR PLACE."

THE MEETING BROKE UP ON THIS NOTE, WITH MIRO TO LET

IS KNOW ON MONDAY. DICK AND T BOTH FEEL THAT HE WILL

---

## Page 5

dI NUBITU QUE UNE TRUDLEN WAS INE SUUUEN INURCADEU

IMPORTANCE OF THE MAGISTRATES® GROUP. ONE SECTION OF THIS

GROUP SPLIT OFF AND BACKED PRIO'S CANDIDATE FOR EXILE

GOVERNMENT. THIS FACTION HAS STIMULATED A COSTLY PRESS

CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE CRC. IN THE TRADE UNION GROUP, A

DIVISION OCCURRED TWO DAYS AGO WITH LEADERS ASSOCIATED

WITH THE PAST ( PRESUMABLY WITH MUJAL) REPLACING DECENT

LEADERS. AS FOR THE STUDENT. GROUP, IT WAITED UNTIL

OCTOBER 10 TO AGREE TO JOIN THE CRO,'

AND THEN DID SO

WITH STIPULATIONS•

: A. REASONABLE OBSERVATION COULD BE THAT IT IS A

SUSPICIOUS COINCIDENCE THAT, THESE GROUPS WHICH ARE

SUPPOSED TO ENTER THE CRC HAVE RESISTED DOING SO AND IN

SOME CASES HAVE ORGANIZED CAMPAIGNS AGAINS,T THE CRC.

NEVERTHELESS ALL THE MAIN GROUPS, EXCEPT MRP AND UD,

HAVE NOW JOINED UP. THESE TWO GROUPS CONTINUE TO RECEIVE

DIRECT CIA SUBSIDY.

'AS FOR THE NEW CIA LIAISON OFFICER, I HAVE HAD TWO

LONG TALKS WITH HIM AND MAVE SUBMITTED OPERATI ONAL PLANS

'TO HIM. IN A THIRD TALK, HELD TWELVE DAYS LATER, THIS

MAN SHOWED HIMSELF EVASIVE AND DID NOT EXPLAIN SATISFACTORILY •

WHAT HAD HAPPENED TO THE PLANS. CACCORDING TO CIA, THE

PLANS REVERTED TO INVASION THINKING AND COLONEL JOHNSON

ACCEPTED THEM ONLY IN ORDER TO ESTABLISH RAPPORT WITH

MIRO.) I AM KEPT. IN COMPLETE IGNORANCE ABOUT WHAT IS TO

HAPPEN INSIDE CUBA. BUT I KNOW THAT RECRUITING IS. GOING

ON AMONG STUDENT AND LABOR GROUPS FOR TRAINING AND

INFILITRATI ON. WE

KNOW THIS FROM OUR OWN CONTACTS AND NOT

FRON CIA• IN ADDITION, CIA SENT A GROUP TO BRAZIL WI THOUT

CHECKING WITH THE CRC OR, SEEKING THE COUNCIL'S

ÁDVICE OR INSTRUCTIONS. ALSO A CIA AGENT 'ACCOMPANIED'

,502

r. 1510

950

?4.0

300

48410

---

## Page 6

NOR ANYTHING WITH WHICH TO CONDUCT THE FIGHT FOR THE *

LIBERATION OF OUR COUNTRY. WE ARE REALLY NO MORE THAN A

FRONT FOR THE CIA, AND WE WILL ONCE AGAIN BE THE SACRIFICIAL

VICTIM FOR. THEIR ERRORS. RADIO SWAN CONTINUES AS A CIA

OPERATION® SANJENIS IS RECRUITING PEOPLE, FREELY OFFERING ARMS

AND MONEY. NATURALLY PEOPLE GO WHERE THEY ARE OFFERED ARMS.

IN SUM, THE PAST OF SEPTEMBER 8, WHICH I WAS RELUCTANT

TO AGREE TO AT THE TIME, HAS NOT BEEN FULFILLED.

STILL, I CAME TO WASHINGION ON SUNDAY FOR A DINNER AT WHICH.

• I WAS ASSURED THE CIA REPRESENTATIVE IN MIAMI WOULD BE PRESENT.

HE WAS NOT THERE. CIA CONTINUES TO DO WHAT IT WANTS WITHOUT

REGARD FOR THE .CRC. I DON•T THINK THAT CIA HAS ANYTHING

PERSONAL AGAINST ME. IT IS JUST THAT THEY WISH TO RUN THINGS

AS THEY HAVE DONE BEFORE: THEY ARE DESTROYING THE CRC BY THIS

ATTITUDE. HENCE MY DECISION-- NOW IRREVOCABLE -- TO RESIGN®

' I CAN FIGHT AGAINST CASTRO - AGAINST THE CORRUPTIONS OF

•THE PAST -- AGAINST PRIO - AGAINST BATISTA - BUT, IF I

HAVE TO FIGHT THE CIA ON TOP OF ALL THIS, I DECLARE MYSELF

VANQUISHED. EVEN IF THE PRESENT SITUATION IS STRAIGHTENED, OUT,

IT WILL ALL BEGIN AGAIN TOMORROW. THE CIA WILL SIMPLY TRY TO

CREATE A SITUATION TO JUSTIFY ITS PAST ATTITUDES.

GOODWIN: I UNDERSTAND THAT YOU WILL NOT ANNOUNCE YOUR

RESIGNATION UNTIL THE OAS MEETING (DISCUSSING PERUS' RESOLUTION

ON CUBA> ON THURSDAY•

M-I-RO& YES.

GOODWIN: YOUR RESIGNATION WOULD BE A TRAGEDY. BUT, AFTER

SO MANY DISAPPOINTING EXPERIENCE, I WILL NOT OFFER YOU

ANY MORE PROMISES. BUT GIVE ME 24 HOURS TO SEE.

WHETHER DEFINITE AND POSITIVE ARRANGEMENTS CANNOT BE MADE

TO IMPROVE THIS SITUATION. IF NECESSARY, I MEAN TO GO TO THE

SECRETARY OR TO THE PRESIDENT.

---

## Page 7

RELATIONS WITH THE REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL

1o THE UNITED STATES REGARDS THE REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL AS

THE CENTRAL POINT OF CONTACT IN ITS DEALING WITH THE CUBAN

EXILE AND UNDERGROUND ACTIVITY. DR. MIRO CARDONA -- AS

CHAIRMAN OF THAT COUNCIL - HAS THE COMPLETE CONFIDENCE OF

THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT. THE FOLLOWING IS A COMPLETE OUTLINE

OF THE STRUCTURE OF OUR FUTURE RELATIONSHIPS WITH THE COUNCIL:

A. BUDGETARY - A BASIC ADMINISTRATIVE

BUDGET WILL BE ALLOCATED.

THIS WILL BE SOMEWHERE IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD OF ONE MILLION

DOLLARS PER YEAR. THERE WILL BE CONSIDERABLE FLEXIBILITY IN

THE USE OF THIS MONEY ALLOWED TO THE COUNCIL. DETAILED

ADVANCE JUSTIFICATION WILL NOT BE REQUIRED, BUT COMPLETE

ACCOUNTING FOR MONIES SPENT WILL BE ESSENTIAL®

ALL OTHER ALLOCATIONS OF MONEY WILL BE ON THE BASIS OF SPECIFIC

PROJECTS SUBMITTED BY THE COUNCIL AND APPROVED BY THE UNITED

STATES• IN THIS CATEGORY WILL FALL MOST OF. THE PROPAGANDA

ACTIVITIES AND ALL CLANDESTINE ACTIVITIES WITHIN CUBA•

Be

COMPOSITION OF COUNCIL - THE COUNCIL WILL CONTINUE

TO BROADEN ITS BASE, ALLOWING ENTRY TO ALL SUBSTANTIAL

EXILE: GROUPS WHICH ARE NOT IDENTIFIED WITH BATISTS OR WITH

COMMUNISM•

Co, UNDERGROUND ACTIVITIES -

1º ALL GROUPS WILLING TO WORK WITH THE COUNCIL IN CONNECTION

WITH THEIR UNDERGROUND ACTIVITIES WILL BE DEALT WITH THROUGH

DR. MIRO. THIS MEANS THAT THE OPERATING U.S. AGENCY WILL

---

## Page 8

NOTE: THIS MEMORANDUM WAS READ TO DR. MIRO CARDONA AS THE

BASIS OF US- CRC RELATIONS

RAH

9/ 9/61

Se IN ALL CONTACTS WITH UNDERGROUND GROUPS IT IS UNDERSTOOD

THAT THE NATURE OF THESE CONTACTS AND THE MATTERS DISCUSSED

WILL BE HELD IN THE STRICTEST SECRECY BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES,

DRO MIRO AND THE GROUP CONCERNED: IT IS NOT INTENDED THAT

INFORMATION OF THIS SORT BE DISSEMINATED TO OTHER MEMBERS. OF

THE COUNCIL. WHERE DR. MIRO IS INFORMED OF CLANDESTINE

ACTIVITIES IT IS FOR HIS INFORMATION ONLY, OR THAT OF A SPECIALLY

APPOINTED ASSISTANT FOR

THESE MATTERS• IT IS FURTHER UNDERSTOOD

THAT IF HIS ARRANGEMENT PROVES INSECURE, I.E., IF INFORMATION

IS NOT. KEPT COMPLETELY SECRETY, IT WILL BE TERMINATED.

40 A CIA AGENT WILL DIIP IN CONSTANT CONTACT WITH DR. MIRO.

• D. COUNCIL RELATIONSHIPS

1º ALL PROBLEMS ARISING OUT OF THE ACTIVITIES OF THE

COUNCIL WILL BE DISCUSSED BETWEN THE COUNCIL AND THE BUREAU

OF. ARA OF THE STATE DEPARTMENT• HOWEVER; DR. MIRO WILL STILL

• RETAIN HIS CONTACT WITH THE WHITE HOUSE IN SUCH CASES WHERE

HE CONSIDERS SÜCH CONTACT TO BE URGENTLY NECESSARY.

SECRET

SEPTEMBER 9, 1961

---

