# 176-10036-10153

## Page 1

176-10036-10153

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10153

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : The Nature of the Buddhist Conflict

DATE : 9/27/1963

PAGES : $6

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam,9/22/63-10/6/63, CIA

Reports. Box 2

---

## Page 2

Crứh co

18 184

Oar,

aC(L)C

10(06

CBEN 010)

Fgrtons

M DACD

M BeST

10 610

(Dan C

( 101) 6 108

D D (2

EPO

( TENES)

( BaN LOD

(SS)) C

2(E D) (2(L EH D)LĐT

SOD(DEOU

sộc lệ

•ENie

CE3( B0

(6 D00) C

19G 29

1BOCH10

CrEnE

A ATURE Ore SUbpnist con

ONFLeT

( 00H

POS 13%

NCENCE

ECENTRADINTE WOENO AGENC

---

## Page 3

THIS MATERIAL CONTAINS INFORMATION AFFECT-

ING THE NATIONAL DEFENSE OF THE UNITED STATES

WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE ESPIONAGE LAWS,

TITLE 18, USC, SECTIONS 793 AND 794, THE TRANSMIS-

SION OR REVELATION OF WHICH IN ANY MANNER TO

AN UNAUTHORIZED PERSON IS PROHIBITED BY LAW.

DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

This document MUST NOT, BE RELEASED TO FOREIGN

GOVERNMENTS. If marked with specific dissemination

controls in accordance with the provisions of DCID 1/7,

the document must be handled within the framework of

the limitation so imposed.

39486

162/3

---

## Page 4

113

SECRET

27 September 1963

THE NATURE OF THE BUDDHIST CONFLICT IN SOUTH VIETNAM

The current Buddhist protest movement in Soutb

Vietnam has been highly political since its incep-

tion.

However, in the context of Buddhist tradition;

as well as of political life under the igo family

regime,

it is impossible entirely to separate Bud-

dhist political aims from Buddhist religious motiva-

tion..

And in the course of their protest campaign;

many otherwise apolitical Vietnamese Buddhists were

forced to the conclusion thät only through a change

in the regime could they win religious equality.

A majority of the South

from

the more passive

Theravada

Vietnamese population consider

themselves

Buddhists of Ceylon and the

Buddhists in one

rest of Southeast Asia, have es=

sense or another.

The Buddhist

tablished contacts with them

Sangha (the organized community

through the World Buddhist Fel

Of monks and nuns) does not share

lowship started in 1950)

the Western concept of church

state separation and looks back

There is no evidence thât

to a b

period in Vietnamese his-

the

Dien regime has curbed free-

tory when Budchists served as

political

dom

of feligion

or that it. Câr-

cultural, and spirit

riéd out repressions against

ual counselors to emperors. Al-

Buddhists prior to the 8 May

though this

role declined well

outburst.

Nevertheless, the

before the advent of French

governent's open bias toward

mile Buddie its tate colo

Catholicism-evident In its of

period, with its introduc

ficlal philosophy; in its of=

tion of Catholicism and the

•ficial sanction of Catholic cele-

privileged status

accorded Its

brations; In some of its laws

acherents, as having further

in schools, in the armed forces

corrupted their religion, r

(Catholic chaplains), and to

ing out of this concerp,

a grow

ing. Buddhist revival beginning

sore cruste ofte dig clearly

in the 1920s

led to the forms-

created the impression among

tion in 195l by the most impor

Buddhists of religious discrimt

tant Vietnamese sect of a na

nation.

tional Sangha and laity organiza-

Lao organization,

za son, oone around:

the General Association

a nucleus of Catholics, became

of Vietnamese" Buddhists' (GAVB).

the government's controlling

When' Diem assumed power in South

element in the civil service

Vietnam, Buddhists probably re

and army, and many ambitious

garded his strong. Catholic orl-

Vietnamese have come to regard

entation as unfavorable to their

conversion to Catholicism'as the

aspirations; (Vietnam's predomi-

path to success. In a series

nantly Hahayama Buddhists, al

public ceremontes In the fall

though of a different school

of 1959, Dien offictally dedicated

SECRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

the entire country to the

virgin

Mary. The appointment in 1961

of Diem's brother Thuc as arch-

bishop of Fue a Buddhist strong:

hold--intensified. the resent-

engendered by Thuc's polit-

ical influence and activities.

Trị Quạng,

the Buddhist

bonze, who sparked the eruption

of the Buddhist protest movement

in Hué on 8 May, has admitted

since taking refuge in the Ameri

cap. Embassy on 1 September that

he had long been planning such

a campaign. He. bas

denied, how

ever, deliberately instigating

the violence of 8 May, which

culminated in the death of eight

persons during efforts of seçu-

rity: forces to dispersea crowd.

• Tri Quang claims he

seized on

the issue for a

showdown, having

let earlier opportunities go by,

and that even for some time sub-

sequent to 8 May,

the Buddhists

would. have settled: for an end

to religious discrimination.

His statements cannot be refuted

on the, basis of

hard information

DOW

avallable.

Tri Quang and other Bud-

dhist leaders are known to have

had at least two days' notice

prior to the 8 May celebration

Of Buddha's birthday 1n which

to plan open protests over a

government effort to apply a

directive-long standing but

not previously enforced--con-

cerning the display.of the: Bud

dhist, flag. The government's

charge, however, that the en-

suing deaths were caused by a

Viet Cong grenade

rather than

by: government troops is not

borne out by eyewitness reports

vor the findings of US military

personnel in the area.

The five demands: drafted

by Buddhist leaders in Hue on

10. May were in effect a petition

for both religious and political

concessions, including the elimi

nation of legal restrictions not

applicable to Catholics and resti

tution for the 8 May victims.

Whether

or not, the: demands were

politically motivated, prompt

and adroit government handling

of the issue probably. could, have

averted the formation of a na

tional Buddhist campaign. Under

cohesion among the country's dif-

fuse Buddhist following, but was

supported by 13 sects represented

by a recently created Inter-sect

Committee. Two other nonpartici-

pating sects are reportedly, gov-

ernment-subsidized. By, the time

that the government reached a

compromise agreement on 16 June,

however, the Buddhists had de-

veloped sufficient momentum and

evidence of new repressions to

challenge the regime's: promise

of good faith.

There is strong evidence.

that

the government, through

its authoritarian inclinatlons

and its concern over Viet Cong

instigation or exploitation.of

the Buddhist issue, was disposed

from the beginning to regard the

Buddhist leadership as subversive

and to deal with it forcefully.

When it refrained from doing so,

under US pressure, while stall

•ing on concessions, the. Bud-

dhists were able to arouse pub

lic sympathy by organizing

2

SECRET

---

## Page 6

C

3250 6:

SECRET

demonstrations and, ultimately,

by self-immolations which, what-

ever their political effects,

represent a sacrificial gesture

compatible with the traditions

of Vietnamese (Mahayana) Bud

dhism.

gust the fervor of the Buddhist

movement may have been partly

out of control, as claimed by

the Buddhist leaders, the lat-

ter were already expanding their

demands in late June; in mid-

July moderate Buddhist clergy

were expressing alarm over the

political aims of extremists in

the movement.

There is-almost

no question that Tri Quang and

others were actively organizing,

whether from the outset or as

a: result of frustrations en-

countered during the campaign,

a"vehicle to bring about the

government's overthrow, though

¡they do not appear to have co-

operated with Diem's traditional

political opponents:

The government has claimed

it has proof of Communist di

rection of the Buddhist campaign,

but officials privately admit

there is little hard evidence

of this, other than Viet Cong

directives to exploit the is-

sue.

Quang him-

self claims that, despite per-

sonal antipathy to Diem, he ini

tially accepted the President

as a strong anti-Communist leader;

it was only later that he con-

cluded that Diem could not win

the war and that the Buddhists

were caught between the evils

of the regime and of the Viet

Cong.

Quang, however, is pollt-

ically sophisticated and some-

what devious in his approach!

A Vietnamese source, one who

regards most Buddhist leaders

as sincerely motivated, has

expressed distrust of Quang.

and his denials of Communist

sympathies.

(SECRET)

SECRET

21:102

---

## Page 7

SECRET

C

..?•

SECRET

---

