# 176-10030-10261_1

## Page 1

176-10030-10261

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Datc:

5/5/2016

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

NARA

176-10030-10261

RICHARD GOODWIN PAPERS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

05/12/1961

6

CUBA, COVERT ACTION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

MEMO

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

From the Papers of Richard Goodwin: Subjects, Cuba, Covert Action, Box 4, Item 3a

19.1

NW#: 55510

45

DocId: 32276732

---

## Page 2

EYES ONLY

SECRETI

1981-2554

12 May 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT

Meeting with ing: Manuel Ray

PARTICIPANTS: Ing. Manuel Ray

Ernesto Betancourt

Regello Gieneros

James Aç Noel

Ray did not return to Washington unth early morning on Friday;

12 May 1961:21o called me at 0700 from the airport He was unable

to fia definite hour for us to get together due to the fact that he was

expecting an appointment with a person he did not name some time

dur log the moraine

He later called a number of tired from the Hotel

Imbassados to advise me that he stull had had no wort on hid appoint-

Mr Betancourt called to pay that he vee With Ray

and Cusono (Rocolo Cloneros) and condeme got torcherougen

gested they.

drive out to the Cletendon Hotel Cour on/ulson Boulevard

where had takong room for holding our meeting They ur tved in

went to che:

nearby Hogate Resteurant on wileon Boulevara for lunch:

before we so dom to the buglege of the prod pactues

During lunch we did not diacuse the plan but & aid taka the op

portunity to atrees in a most ertong wey the need for absolute decrecy

concerning our discussions today and any uturo discus lone greates

opmen grubich might take place in the furuso With respect to our relation

ship al agreed on the need for tight cecurt ya

Ate lunch we drove to the Motel Court and tom appe inately

1s3o until 1230ve discuged the prospectua vene Ma Banned gate

ma as general guido, i tressed the importance of betas ableito present

EYES ONLY

• SECRET:

NW#: 55510

Docid: 32276732

---

## Page 3

EYES ONLY

SECRET

- 2-

to the proper people at the earliest possible time a carefully thought-

out plan of action which would set forth clearly the objectives - what

the project hoped to achleve; a statement of the problem; the strengths

of the Castro regime following the ill-fated invaslon; the status of the

underground and its morale and capabilities; the extent of internal

support for and disconteut with the regime, etc., etc

lalso spoke of the need for describing the kind of activities

which the Ray organization planned to engage in and the assets and

capabilifies which they have or can acquire to do the job.

The need for

explaining the relationahip and coordination of the plan with the Revolu

tionary Council was discused at some length.

3. I euggested that be include in the plan an itemization of the kinde

of support which he would expect un to supply immediately as well ad the

Kind and quantity of support which would be reguired of ue an the project

developed:

6 lalso suggested that the plan Include their views on bow U.S.

La con and coordination could best be worked out; how funds would be

funneled into the project; what commo and other trafning would be-re

quired, wether V, Sy Wreal estate" would be neoded, etc.

Ray oud tned some of ble thoughte regerding his proposed plas

of action, According to bina it contemplates action in threc broad fielde:

(a). Underground activity -- principally sabotage is la the

urban areas

N6) Oradua) bulldup de largoly through clandestine tofutra-

Mons of emait bodies of men 4 of guerrila forces la mountain-

ous and defeneible dread.

(c) A poychologtenl wartore campaign within Cuba and abroad

almed at alecrediting Castro and Se the same time providing the

people a Cuba-something to light for

8.1Is do Ray o intention to depend almost entirely on martitme opera-

tons for the infutration of personnel and matertol Into Cuba, He aldo

rules out of bie plan theicreatson of another invasion army but does. con.

template the training of groups of perhaps up to 150 men in other friendly

24-337

EYES ONLY

SECRET

NW#: 55510

Docid: 32276732

---

## Page 4

EYES ONLY

SECRET

- 3=

countries of South America (hé mentioned Venezuela as a poseibillty)

and said he would explore the possibility of basing maritime operatione

in non-U. Se porte:

9. Ray sald some means, other than Swan Island, must be found

for reaching the Cuban population by radio broadcaste. He spoke of

the possibility of short wave broadcasts from Venezuela and utilisa-

tion of a commercial station in Miami which he understands can be

clearly hoard in Cuba.

10. Ray spoke of the desircability of stimulating the organization

of "Pro-True Cuban Revolutionary" student groups in many countries.

of Latin America (he ald a successful organization has been formed

in Puerto Rico) and of sending qualified representatives to those Latia

American countries where there la Soviet Aiplomatic represertation to

contact student and labor groups end leaders In an effort to present to

them the true picture of the worry olate of students, workers, and

intellectuate In' Castrolo Cube.

Ray ls aldo Intereated in the possibulty of putting out a "Newe

Letter" under MRP sponsorebip which would discuss various aspects of

the Cuban picture and set forth plane for Cuba after the fail of Cantro:

He thought such a newe letter could go a long way towards correcting

mistaken precions among American univereity professors and la

other clicies as to the true nature of the Caatro regime, He pointed

to the recent leuter from 63 Harvara profesnore which wae recently.

published in the N. 7, Timen as a "horrible example" ae to how rais-

Informed even unlvernity professora are on present day Cubar.

120 When the discussions got bround to the need for conducting

operations at least "undor the umbrella" of the Revolutlonary Counch,

and the need for obtaining Dr Mirole concurrence before the V. S.

would be able to support any operation, It was obvlous that nelther

Is, Ray nos Mr. Betancourt holde a high impression of tho Coinell

Both tech mat there lo a strong postbutty that the close pablle

Identification of the Councll with the recent Invasion may well have

discredited the Council to such an extent that It commande no eupport

of reapoct within Cabar t

For the rake of argument they

gEe warne to concede that the

political advantagee of maintaining the Councit for the purpose of forcing

ENES ONLY

SECRET

NW#: 55510

DocId: 32276732

---

## Page 5

EYES ONLY

SECRET

÷44

unity of the varioue estle groups may well outweigh its other obvioue

shortcomings. However, both feel, and Mr. Betancourt was quite

emphatic on thie point, that the Council an a body is not capable of

directing clandotine actions agalost Castro and as a matter of fact

is opposed to way further efforts at överthrowing Castro by cabotage

and other subversive actione since they are completely "sold" on

the thesia that Castro Can only be removed by direct U.S. military

action and therefore a continuation of Cuban underground activities

can only result in needlens and futile loss of life. In the fact of this

attitude, Ray said he does not expect to receive much encouragement

for his plan from the Council, although he le fairly confident that

Dr. Miro's approval can eventually be obtained:

Mu Betancourt thought that a workable colution might be found

to their problem is the Counch would agree to concern itsell exclusively

with (e) tho current tack of untying the opposition, and (b) planning for

ite future assumption of power ao the provisional government. Under

this artengement, operatione aimed at the downfall of Castro could be

entrusted to thoss leaders and groupe (such as the wRe, MRR; and

possibly the MIDC) which have both the areets and the til to do the

job Mr Ray thought that It might be feasible to creato an operatione

planning board of command among the groupe with demonstrated andeta

and thue avoid, unneces mary duplication and confusion and make poseible.

overan planning it war obvious, however, that he would prefer to set.

autonomously in the execution of bla program.

Mr Ray was very Critical of Artime and elated he was in possession

of gufficient "facts" to convince him that Artime, la colluston with ele

mento of the compe, were planning to eliminate the MRP And ite leadera

from the picture, when the invaston succeeded. He said he prowe"

that Artime wor boing Gnentelly eupported by wealthy ex Batletlanoe

of the Miami eregai

13. Ray blated at varlous times that the MRP may at some potat

Glad neit faced with the

necesetty of witharawing/t.com the Gounel and

golng it alone He saye that thei Council is composed of "good men" but

they havo no assets or

algerie nt allowinge and theye nothlog to otter

the people of Cuba*

and although the proclamation of the councivas

finally dratted, was a good one the

pregressive" aspects of the proclam.

ation wore forced on the Counch by the Americans and do not ropresent.

the true feelings of the majority of the Council membered

He sald the

EYES ONLY

SECRET

NW#: 55510

DocId: 32276732

---

## Page 6

EYES ONLY

SECRET

-5-

Cuban people are not likely to want to risk their lives on the basts of

promises made by the present membership of the Council.

He feels

that acceptance of the Council would be improved by adding to its

membershlp two or three more people whose names would be signd-

ficant and meaningful to the Cuban people. He did not namo any

specific candidates:

14. Mr, Ray let me read a 13 or 14 page report which he had

just soceived from the MRP coordinator in Cubal

which painted a dreaty picture of conditions in Cuba since the fallure

of the invasion; was critical of the inclusion of Batistianos and "ninos

bonitos" in the invasion force; conveyed the strong feeling that the

Cubans had been betrayed by the Americans; and indicated that while

the MRP Organisation was ptill pretty much intact physically, morale

was almost completely shattered. Mr. Ray said he would provide me

a sanitized copy there were some operational and perional details)

of the report for our information.

15v ta dew of thie report from within Cuba, Mr, Ray eald that

he will wish to detes submitting hle plan for our consideration until

he fo able to recelve word from Guba concerning the capablites,

Wilingneed and leadbluty of carrying our some of the activitiee he

has in mind. He end it le uneteen to submit a program of action li

the human clemento to curry it out are lacking os completely de moral-

Iced. He thought he might be able to present his prospector within

approximately ten days. He daid naturally he will not give the people

Inside any indicatton that he bae been diecussing a plan of action with

це:

16. urged Ray to consider submatting at leat a preliminary and

admittedly tentarive proppectus at tale tire basod on the assumption

that he assote are still intact and will be willing to cooperate. In order

that it may tocolve early coneido ration. However, he stuck to bid?

bellet that this would not be practicablexand felterated the need for

prior evaluation of the atrength and morale of his toflowing?

17 Ray asked concerning the detainecs at MeAlton, Texas, and

wondered ll they have been released ile was told that as far as y

know they are atilt under detention. He said Mr. Goodwin had taken:

heir names and promised to look; Into the matters! Ma. Betancourt

EVES ONLY

SECRET

NW#: 55510

DocId: 32276732

---

## Page 7

EYES ONLY

SECRET.

-6-

eaid he would check directly with Mir. Goodwin to their statue.

18. I Invited Me. Ray and/or Mt. Betancourt to call me over

the weekend in case either should want to discuse the matter further.

I had the feeling that Mr, Betancourt was porsonally in favor of sub.

mitting now a plan covering "short term" needs of their organization

and it may be that ouch a paper will be submitted alter he has an

opportunity to talls with My. Ray in private.

JAN/da

Dietribution:

original 42 - A/DOPIA

C/WHD

AC/ww/4 & cirewlate

1F Manuel Ray:

201

•..

??."

EYES ONLY

SECRET

NW#: 55510

DocId: 32276732

---

