# 176-10036-10103

## Page 1

176-10036-10103

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10103

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR. : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : CIA Information Telegram

DATE : 3/20/1963

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 2/63-3/63. Box 2

---

## Page 2

TELEGRAM

This onaterial

he transmission dio re

J4K-81-325

INFSRMATION REPCAT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL. INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

elenner to an unstenerStades rithin

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

Vietnam

bo laba Espionage Laws, Tille 18. U.S.6 Sect

COUNTRY

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-I

SOUTH VIETNAM

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO. TDCS - 3/541,020

SUBJECT

THE SEEKING OF AMERICAN SUPPORT FOR

THE OVERTHROW OF THE DIEM REGIME

DATE DISTR. 20 MARCH 1963

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

DATE OF

MID-MARCH 1963

REFERENCES

IN 89614

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

VIETNAM, SAIGON (14 MARCH 1963)

SEE BELOW

FVS-8662

APPRAISAL

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL. OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

APPR

THIS REPORI IS. TYPICAL OF VIEWS HELD BY CERTAIN OPPOSITIONISTS, INCLUDING THOSE

IN THE FELLOW-TRAVELLING CATEGORY. COMMENTS OF TEIS NATURE HAVE ALSO BEEN MADE

BY GOVERNMENT PROVOKERS SEEKING TO PROVOKE AMERICAN REACTION. THE LINE THAT

DIM IS ACCEPTABLE, BUT THAT HIS FAMILY, ADMINISTRATION, AND PROGRAMS ARE NOT,

IS ALSO CHARACTERISTIC OF VARIOUS OPPOSITION ELEMENTS AS WELL AS SOME SEGMENTS

OF THE LEFT. THE ESTIMATE CONTAINED HEREIN ON A NUMBER OF SUBJECTS, INCLUDING

THE APPRAISAL THAT THE STRATEGIC HAMLET PROGRAM IS HICHLY DANGEROUS TO THE

GOVERNMENT OF VIEINAM OR TO AMERICAN OBJECTIVES, IS NOT ACCEPTED:

1.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-I

STATE/ INA DIA ARMY/ACSI NAYY

STATE/DIR

& TELEGRAM

: CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCA ORR

GROUP/

Encluded from outamone

doungreding and

declasslication

EXO

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

SANITIZED NOR 01.197-5.7-3

FORM

562

1Kb OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(15-20)

---

## Page 3

ELASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

NO. FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS -3/541,020

IN 89614

PAG"

TWO,

THE TWO REPRESENTATIVES INDICATED THAT, IF AMERICAN AID IS NOT

FORTHCOMING, OTHER SOURCES WILL BE CONTACTED. IF THE AMERICANS

HELP THE NATIONALIST CAUSE OF THE OPPOSITIONISTS, THEY WILL

HAVE SOME MEASURE OF CONTROL OVER THE RESULTS; OTHERWISE,

THEY WILL HAVE NONE: (FIELD COMMENT. FVS 8654, IDCS-3/540,447, REPORTEC

AN EARLIER DISCUSSION BY THESE INDIVIDUALS.)

2. ACCORDING TO THESE OPPOSITIONISTS,. THE COUNTRY HAS

REACHED A COMPLETE IMPASSE AND SOMETHING MUST HAPPEN SOON. IF

DIEM SHOULD DIE SUDDENLY, THE RESULT WOULD BE CHAOS, OUT OF

WHICH THE COMMUNISTS WOULD EMERGE AS THE ONLY BENEFICIARIES:

DIEM REMAINS IN POWER ONLY AS THE RESULT OF AMERICAN MILITARY

SUPPORT, WITHOUT WHICH HE WOULD BE COMPLETELY LOST. THE DIEM.

GOVERNMENT IS WORSE THAN IMPOSSIBLE: 'THERE ARE

A NUMBER OF. GROUPS IN THE COUNTRY, SUCH AS THE HOA HO AND THE

CAO DAI, THAT ARE COMPLETELY OPPOSED TO COMMUNISM BUT CANNOT

POSSIBLY SUPPORT THE PRESENT REGIME, WHEREAS THEY COULD

SUPPORT

• SOME OTHER NATIONALIST TYPE OF GOVERNMENT. PRESIDENT DIEM

IS PERSONALLY A DECENT AND HONORABLE MAN, BUT NGO DINH NHU AND

HIS WIFE MUST BE ELIMINATED; WITHOUT THEM, IT WOULD BE POSSIBLE

¡TO RE-ORIENT DIEM...

3. THE STRATEGIC HAMLET PROGRAM IS HIGHLY DANGEROUS BECAUSE,

ALTHOUGH THE AMERICANS AND THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM ARE EITHER

CONFIDENT

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 4

• CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS - 3/541,020

IN

89614

PAGi: THREE

UNAWARE OF ARE UNWILLING TO FACE IT, THE STRATEGIC HAMLETS ARE

HEAVILY INFILTRATED WITH VIETNAMESE COMMUNISTS (VC), WHOSE

PRESENCE WILL MAKE ITSELF KNOWN IN DUE COURSE. THE REPUBLICAN

YOUTH MOVEMENT IS ONLY A LONG SERIES OF MEETINGS AND IS

COMPLETELY LACKING IN "DEPTH AS AN ORGANIZATION; IT IS A

SUPERFICIAL VENEER; GOING THROUGH VARIOUS FRUITLESS MOTIONS.

THE PRINCIPAL CRITERION FOR SELECTION OF PROVINCIAL AND

DISTRICT LEADERS IS PERSONAL OBEDIENCE TO THE REGIME; COMPETENCE

IS ONLY AN AFTERTHOUGHT.

4. IF THE SITUATION CONTINUES IN ITS PRESENT VEIN, THERE

WILL BE A RENEWED VC OFFENSIVE ON A LARGER SCALE SOON AFTER

THE ONSET OF THE RAINY SEASON, WHEN BAD WEATHER REDUCES THE

EFFECTIVENESS OF HELICOPTERS AND AIR CAPABILITY IN GENERAL.

THIS WILL_ BEGIN NEAR THE SAIGON AREA, AND, - AT THE SAME TIME

THE VO WITHIN THE STRATEGIC HAMLETS WILL GO INTO ACTION.

5. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACU MAAG AID

•USIA CINCAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF 9TH FIELD STATION 2ND AIR DIVISION.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

