# 176-10037-10336

## Page 1

176-10037-10336

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10336

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files: William H. Brubeck

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : NUFK

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : John F. Kennedy document Control Record

DATE: 7/26/1962

PAGES : A 6

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS •:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 382: Congo 5/62-7/62. Box 5.

---

## Page 2

•SOREST OFFICIAL COMMUNICATIONE TO

dog; MET. SECRETARY OF STATE

WASHINOTON 15, D.C.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

WASHINGTON

Dangan.

20

S/S-12618

"July 24, 1962

7/24 trig

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. MCGEORGE BUNDY

THE WHITE HOUSE

SUBJECT: Letter from Prime Minister Adoula

The enclosed handwritten letter to the President from

Prime Minister Adoula of the Congo was handed to Ambassador

Gullion for delivery just before his departure fron Leopoldville

for Washington on consultation. A translation is also enclosed.

A suggested reply will shortly be transmitted to you..

slidicle

Willian

H. Brubeck

Executive Secretary

Enclosures:

lo: Letter from Prime Minister Adoula.

Translation of letter.

CONFTDENIIAT

---

## Page 3

20a

My beng Fresident:

soaring tast Astonsador Enlion ma emiled la lanager mome

do prate fron his 2aip to auron to jon this very fertone. Betes

Ten have falloud tha jovelonent os the situation an the fange sinto

tDo lEva tales iith I had with ir. Sobado in lespoldlie, loa baro

certotal been appetore di all the efforts bica I have node, treat of all

to avald e rapture in the talka m a mpture thiel i. Inhonho decimi as

auy pince • ned then to order so tarivo so a peacetal colitian to blo

Entanga problem erns shin the arranto vented in so 8y the particent me

no0 alumn raspected the poto of dos al sha central lovemenua mo

rovealtd to you 1 bellero by Decrotury es state lose Sant after the neuting

met te had in lachington men miniotera Bernato and fanatat Mis

diempatatuento nach 1 ma incessarly centunted mes in bue aliast bara

esenderbly affectod sy sorole.

Ey political openente are prositing frus

tEco 1n erine to propagandaso against the covormous so tho entert that the

papalation nore and nore 20 losing sensdance. for ty puri, I a batoning

to audiceto oy dalder 11 e exation 10 not fortiaring in 1e next norti.

At the sense tet, conscion of the neonsaty of suming the bange a

soU GeLoso piton volA ndy havo grleton Fpercuscions fe world peece, I

aruglo sirli against ey esorelaso la seep uy coarage sud ay nerve.

You are not unmare, ry toer radael, of bon mich the prorden of

sho fatango do iled to pease mi assesally of the empoquees shet e

Banzure of the in aptration eould engander not only far the tongo but alau

SOR all BRODO BRO DETO mpparted this operablue Forettheseung the assrane.

articulates. o

DECLASSIFIED

PUBLISHED IN FRUS, 1961-1963

VOL.

XX.

DOC# 264

BY LATER NARA Date 10/11

---

## Page 4

• 2

deficities lining ay path, 1 still lars enfidence in the Sutie ol

sy comty then i cursidor the olfose stich jour Doreramne and you e

not ensso to orpend in on seballe 1 inau ulsa that yor chas do not easy.

Several of your emntry did not aluys mderaiand the pralous of the

Conge, 1 hou ans that ay poiler os mo sliguent to nut alvys interatsad

ClarLy oUtFiT, sEco I haTe hover rencirced the principles as alberty und

demorsey nich rosen in she sia sorti. 1 sould not east to sagoot a

possinioto fuss in uy letter in sagine thad 18 a positive remit man net

antond in the coming mato I sand ho partaps forced to sabido sy

rosignation to tho enter of Mate. Tis santa la sho racist of the au

fortuate afterto of those uto 1o dentrng haspineno farcthe Congelese pouple

pouties so purce their own latererto.

1 mala do 1linmaro sa ending theso Ines at 1 did not rosterate

Bo sus do ay sono and in thn nao at the cortalone paplo the Pectings el

gratitude antes to eno do jan permanally so sull so lO Cho Anemeno people

for te naterial end unrel supert anted yon here not cossed to sumiah so.

soilero no, my dzer Frealdent,

Josts tory almoaraly,

Adaisla

---

## Page 5

-2 .

difficulties lining my path, I still have confidence in the future of

my country when I consider the efforts which your Government and you do

not cease, to expend in our behalf. I know also that your task is not easy.

Several of your countrymen did not always understand the problems of the.

Congo. I know also that my polley of non-alignment is not always understood

by the tar-paylig American; but the acts which I present should suffice to

clarity opinion; cince I have never renounced the principles of Liberty and

democracy which reign in the free world. I would not wish to inject a

pessimistic tone in uy letter in saying that if a positive result was not

obtained in the coming weeks I would be perhaps forced to subndt my

resignation to the Chief of State. This would be the result of the un-

fortunate efforts of those who in desiring happiness for the Congolese people

continue to pursue their own interests.

I would be ill-mannered in ending these lines if I did not reiterate

to you in my name and in the neme of the Congolese people the fealings of

gratitude which we owe to you personally as well as to the American people

for the material and moral support which you have not ceased to furnish us.

Belleve me, my dear President,

Tours vosy aincerely,.

Adovla

---

## Page 6

FOR SECRET

tile

Comes

22

THE WHITE HOUSE

WASHINGTON

26 July 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. DUNGAN

I am enclosing a copy of a memorandum General

Taylor prepared based

on his discussion today with

the President.

I have asked Mr. Parrott to obtain an additional

copy of the Central Intelligence memorandum which will

be sent to you immediately on receipt.

Your suggestion re Colonel Greene proved to be

most valuable.

W. H. BAGLEY

Commander, USN

IRO SECRET

---

## Page 7

FOP SECRET

22a

26 July 1962

KEVORNIDUM FOR TEN UNDER SBORRTARI OF STATE FOR POLITICAL AM AIRS

ASSISTANT SBORRZARK ON SZATE FOR APRICA APPAIAS

THE: UNTISO STATIS ASBASSADOR I0 TES CONCO:

The Frontdent bod asted me to cals your etteation to thoi atteched

Central Inteltigence memprendm, dubjectt

"Assesevent of MiXitery

situation in the Congo," which Contatod e very los enttmate of che

value of the Congo Nattonel Ary.

I onderetend that thia eveloutton

Le considerably poro pessintatte than the ludgmnte exprasaed durtoe

your recent conference with hin.

Golenal Michel 1 Lo Creava, tho headed the recant Ary/Air Ferce

voit to chi Congo co evatuate the Mattonat Anny, Le non fa Henntigton,

and avallabte los tetertogatton, & foud very unofal lite firithond

rogettan to the mititary eftuatten in the Conge.

MAXIRLE D. PATtOR

Acecchment

(SC No: 05855/62, 5 pp & map)

boe - Colonel Legere

Mr. Parrott

MDT: aT

-TOP SECRET

---

