# 176-10031-10069

## Page 1

176-10031-10069

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10031-10069

RECORD SERIES : Goodwin Papers

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Memorandum for the Record

DATE : 5/12/1961

PAGES : 6

SUBJECTS : Cuba

DOCUMENT TYPE : Memoranda

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS : 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Goodwin Papers: Subjects: Cuba, Covet Action Box 4, Document 3A

---

## Page 2

Exenet, 204 - Santad ARea 1998

4281-255%

EVES ONLY

SEGRET!®

12 May 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT

: Meeting with Ing. Manuel Ray

PARTICIPANTS: Ing. Manuel Ray

Ernesto Betancourt

Rogelio Cisneros

1. Ray did not return to Washington until early morning on Friday,

12 May 1961. He called me at 0700 from the aisport. He was unable

to fix a definite hour for us to get together due to the fact that he was

expecting as appoiutment with a person he did not name some time

during the morning. He later called a number of times from the Hotel

Ambassador to advige me that he still had had no word on his appoint-

ment. At 1145, Mr. Betancourt called to aay that he was with Ray

and "Eugenlo" (Rogelio Cisneros) and could we get together. I sug-

gested they drive out to the Clarendon Hotel Court on Wilson Boulevard

where I had taken a room for holding our meeting. They arrived in

Mr. Botancourt's car at approsimately 1230 noon time and we first

went to the nearby Hogate Restaurant on Wileon Boulevard for lunch

before we got down to the business of the prospectus.

2. During lunch we did not discuss the plan but I did take the op-

portunity to stress in a most serious way the need for absolute secrecy

concerning our discussions today and any future discussions or devel-

opmente which might take place in the future with respect to our relation-

ship. All agreed on the need for tight security.

3. After lunch we drove to the Hotel Court and from approximately

1330 until 1730, we discussed the prospectus, Veing Ms. Barnes' out-

line as a general guide, I stressed the importance of being able to present

EYES ONLY

SECRET

---

## Page 3

EYES ONLY

SECRET

- 2-

to the proper people at the earliest possible time a carefully thought-

out plan of action which would set forth clearly the objectives " what

the project hoped to achieve; a statement of the problem; the strengths

of the Castro regime following the ill-fated invaston; the status of the

underground and its morale and capabilities; the extent of internal

support for and discontent with the regime, etc., etc.

4.

I also spoke of the need for describing the kind of activities

which the Ray organitation planned to engage in and the assets and

capabilities which they have or can acquire to do the job. The need for

esplaining the relationchip and coordination of the plan with the Revolu-

tionary Councll was discussed at some length.

5. I suggested that he include in the plan an itemitation of the kinde

of support which he would expect us to supply immediately as well as the

kind and quantity of support which would be required of un as the projeet

developed.

6. I also suggested that the plan include their views on how U. S.

liaison and coordination could best be worked out; how funds would be

funneled into the project; what commo and other training would be re-

quired; whether UJ. S. "real estate" would be needed, etc.

1. Ray outlined some of his thoughts regarding his proposed plan

of action. According to him it contemplates action in three broad fields:

(a) Underground activity - principally sabotage . In the

urban areas.

(b) Gradual buildup: largely through clandostine infiltrai

fiona of amall bodies of men - of guerrilla forces la mountain-

ous and detensible area.

(e) A psychological warlare campaign within Cuba and abroad

aimed at discrediting Castro and at the same time providing the

people of Cuba something to fight for.

8. Il 18 Ray'o Intention to depend almost entiroly on maritime opera-

tione for the infiltration of personel and materiel into Cube. He aleo

rules out of his plan the creation o another invasion army but does con-

template the training oi groups of perhapa up to 150 men in other friendly

SECRET

---

## Page 4

EYES ONLY

SECRET

«3=

countries of South America (he mentioned Venezuela as a possibility)

and said he would explore the possibility of basing maritime operationa

in non-t, s. ports.

9. Ray said some means, other than Swan leland, must be found

for teaching the Cubaa population by radio broadcasts. He spoke of

the possibility of ahort wave broadcasts from Venezuela and utiliza-

fion of a commercial station in Miami which he understands can be

clearly heard in Cuba.

10. Ray spoke of the desirability of stimulating the organization

of "Exo-Irue Cuban Revolutionary" student groups in many countries

of Latin America the said a successful organisation has been formed

in Puerto Rico) and of sending qualified representatives to those Latin

American countries where there is Soviet diplomatic representation to

contact student and labor groups and leaders in an effost to present to

them the true picture of the sorry state of studenta, workers, and

intellectuale in Castro's Cuba.

11. Ray is also interested in the possibility of putting out a "Newe

Letter" under MRP sponsorship which would diecues various aspecte of

the Cuban plcture and set forth plans for Cuba after the fall of Gastro.

He thought such a news letter could go a long way towards correcting

miataken Impressions among American university professors and in

other circles as to the true nature of the Castro regime. He pointed

to the recent letter from 63 Harvard professors which was recently

published in the N. Y. Times as a "horrible example" as to how mi8-

Informed even university professors are on present day Cube.

12. When the discussions got around to the need for conducting

operations at least "under the umbralla" of the Ravolutionary Counchl,

and the need for obtaining Dr. Miro's concurrence before the U. S.

would be able to support any operation; it was obvious that neither

Ing. Ray nor Mr. Betancourt holds a high impression of the Council.

Both feel that there la a strong possibility that the close publie

Identilication of the Council with the recent lavation may well have

discredited the Council to such an extent that it commande no support

or respect within Cubs.

For the sake of argument they were willing to concede that the

political advantages of maintaining the Council for the purpose of forcing

EYES ONLY

SECRET

---

## Page 5

i,.

EYES ONLY

SECRET

• unity of the various erdle groups may well outweigh ita other obvious

shortcominga. However, both feel, and Mr. Betancourt we quite

emphatic on this point, that the Council as a body la not capable of

directing clandestine actions against Gastro and as a matter of fact

is opposed to any further efforts at overthrowing: Castro by sabotage

and other aubversive actions since they are completely "sold" on

the thesia that Castro can only be removed by direct U. S. military

action and therefore a continuation of Cuban underground activities.

can only result in needless and futile loss of life. In the fact of this

attitude, Ray said he does not expect to receive much encouragement

for hie plan from the Council, although he le fairly confident that

Dr. Miro'e approval can eventually be ebtained.

Mr. Betancourt thought that a workable solution might be found

to their problem if the Council would agree to concern itaelf exclusively

with (a) the current task of unifying the opposition, and (b) planning for

ita future assumption di power as the provisional government. Under

this arrangement, operatione aimed at the downfall of Castro could be

entrusted to those leaders and groups (such as the MRP, MRh, and

possibly the MDG) which have both the assets and the will to do the

Job, MI. Ray thought that it might be feasible to create an operationa

planning board or command among the groups with demonstrated assets

and thus avold unnecessary duplication and confusion and make possible

overall planning.. It was obvious, however, that he would prefer to act

autonomously in the execution of his program.

Mr. Ray was very critical of Artime and claimed he was in possession

of sufficient 'facts" to convince hira that Artime, in colluaion wita ele-

ments of the camps, were planning to eliminate the MRP. and its leaders

from the picture, when the invasion succeeded. He aaid he "known"

that Artime was being financially supported by wealthy e=-Batistianos

of the Miami area.

13. Ray hinted at various times that the MRP may as some potat

find itself faced with the necessity of withdrawing from the Gonell and

going it alone. He says that the Gouncil la composed of "good men" but

they have no assets of significant followings and "have nothing to alfer

the people of Cuba" and although the proclamation of the Council, an

finally drafted, was a good one the "progressive" aspacts of the proclam-

alion were forced on the Council by the Americane and do not represent

the true feellngs of the majority of the Council members; He sald the

SUSA RAILI

SECRET

---

## Page 6

EVES ONLY

SECRET

Cuban people are not likaly to want to risk their lives on the basis of

promises made by the present membership of the Council. He feels

that acceptance of the Council would be improved by adding to its

membership two or three more people whose names would be signi

ficant and meaningful to the Cuban people, He did not name any

specific candidates.

14. Mr. Ray let me read a 13 or 14 page report which he had

just recelved from the MRP coordinator in Cuba (Reinol Gonzalez)

which painted a dreary picture of conditions in Cuba since the fallure

of the invasion; was critical of the inclusion of Batistianos and "ninos

bonitos" in the invasion force; conveyed the atrong fealing that the

Cubans had been betrayed by the Americans; and indicated that while

the MRP organization was still pretty much intact physically, morale

was almost completely shattered, Mr. Ray sald he would provide me

a sanitized copy (there were some operational and personal detaile)

of the report for our information.

15. In view of this report from within Cube, Mr. Ray said that

he will wish to defer submitting his plan for our consideration until

he la able to receive word from Cuba concerning the capabilities,

willingness and feasibility of carrying out some of the activittes he

has in mind: He said it le useless to submit a program of action 1i

the human elements to carry it out are lacking or completely demoral

Ized. He thought he might be able to present his prospectus within

approximately ten days. He said naturally he will not give the people

Insido any Indiation shat he has been diecussing a plan of action with

18,

16. I urged Ray to consider submitting at least a preliminary and

admittedly tentative proppectie at this time based on the assumption

that his assets are atill intact and will be willing to cooperate in order

that it may receive early considoration. However, he stuck to his

belief that this would ict be practicable and reiterated the need for

prtor evaluation of the atrength and morale of his following.

Bay asked concerning the detainees at McAllen, Texas, and

wondered if they have been released. He was told that as fas as 1

know they are still under detention. He said Mr.. Goodwin had taken

thoir names and promised to lock into the matter. Mr. Betancourt

SEGRET:

---

## Page 7

EYES ONLY

SECRET

-6-

said he would check directly with MT. Goodwin so their status.

18. I lavited Mr. Ray and/or Mr. Betaneourt to call me over

the weekend in case either should want to discuss the matter further.

I had the feeling that Mr. Betancourt was personally in favor of sub-

mitting now a plan covering "short ter" needs of their organization

and it may be that such a paper will be submitted after he has an

opportunity to talk with Mr. Ray in private.

JAN/dia

Distribution:

-_ Original & 2 - A/DDP/A

1 • AC/ WH/4 & circulate

¡ - Manuel Ray 201

EYES ONLY

SECRET

---

