# 176-10036-10068

## Page 1

1176-10036-10068

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10068

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Exchange of intelligence Among Counties

DATE :

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 59: Cuba Subjects, Cuban Subversion,

3/1/1963-3/14/1963. Box 1

40061

---

## Page 2

PAINTINEN ICK 01USY 6'1.1

76

CUBA

ORCHANGE OF DYISELICENGE ANONE DAS COUTZELES ON COLHIUNZENY

SUDVENSIVE ACTEVLTITS IN TEN HOMIEREAS

Fature and Scope 08 the Frobien

As untle thore 15 sone insonation svaliahte in certain

countries, the filegal novement end clandestino activities ot

Countsts in latin merica, vartlenlarly those she have leon

trasued in Cuis, are tot atigutely covered by estattag tetelll-

gence sources.

are boing nate by ela, all end the U.1, allitary serviees to

taprove thie situation, but the progrens has been aler da nose

cases and nonentstent in othort. at hns been found thit the

exteting sovernment in some countries

have no centre to hitle & sungetont career socurity

There to surently a fons that the entatence of a

competent corvice vuld interforo with future political activitien

of the mentors of the estating sovermant in the evant that they

should find thensolves on the outedle looking in. There to no

unity of vioupoint anong tho various entsting intolligence

cervices, anê many of then hava a tendency to yield to the

temptstion to late! as "culveroireg» those of thos eun ntionis.

reestont in notchbaring countrtes mo are ontosid to the present

foresent. Nevortholeas, entsting services of the Intin

GROUP d

Excluded iran automalle

downgrading and

declassiflestian

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Avertenu countrtes enn produce nch useful intelligence on thie

subject with an increased effort.

D. The only secure and rapid emmiaations turtlittes in

Intin Aeries are thoso of the U.9. Goverunent and valle these

are botag inproved, the presently anthorined sugmentation of

facilitten hss not jet buen congleted.

J.s. military ropresentatives

have contricte sith these counterysrts.

I. Jol, espertenco to the mutter of intelligenco arcanige

in othor areas has led to the conclusion that in alsost all

instanses, bilateral arringements use more frultrul thra such

multilateral arrangemonts

Hovertheless, eagerlenee

has shove that sues mitilateral arrangerente can be useful,

particulariy in cresting as smaroneas of the need fer the

enchengo of intelligence.

---

## Page 4

76

SECRET

Reconnended Courses of Aetion

Cortain Courses of Astion siready recorended by this Con-

atttee and approved by higher authority in comection eità the

control of travel to Cuba havo a dtrect hoaring upon the mtter

of intelligence enchange. Thece include (1) the undertaking of

an ionediato study of the lensibility and dentralility of

establishing intclaigonce contera at Caribbean Comand and

Cartibeas den Erontter; (2) an intensification of our setton in

mising svailable to each country selected intelligence racering

the estent, nature and instricus tapiications al Cuban subveruive

activities, as connistent vith the regutracuttte protect our

em intelligence eyeton

Adartional Coursea 01 Action vecomended ane:

Ao latensily and increase

the tratning and equipping o1 latin

Anorlean Laterunt semirity and intelligence acrvices. Eatablial:

such assintance prigame in additiont countutos whore at 1s

found to to desirabto tron our point of vier und accenteblo te

the country concerted..

B. Increase end refine the existing tien of counter

intellisonce intonation

|to farinters Comand do vall do to

CRA hesdquartars, froa both el outch joints further engropriate

SEGBET

---

## Page 5

70

SECRET

dissentnation can he made.

E. Incrueige latta Amortean coutries to onguge ta

Dilaters! eschange of intelligence on Commutet ectivitter.

D. Undertake approgriete setions

bring about the crostion, with U. partletpation, of & standing

comnittee of santos regresentatives of intelligenco and necurity

services tith a vter to their entebliahing and sutding the

netivities of is upropriate neelanie for the mititateral

orehange of intelligence and comterinteligence inferation

regarding comminiet suiversive activities.

S. Continuo and intensily arent efforts to taprove

Is, comication Inctiittes throughout latta nertes.

I, Incrosee tho dissemination to batta incrienn

pover monts, ly all 0.8. "goueses concerned, of uneldestited

studies, reports and other infernation concoring Conniet

subveraton

SEORET

---

