# 176-10036-10074

## Page 1

176-10036-10074|

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10074

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR :

FROM : Johnson

TO : Rostow

TITLE : Meeting of Vietnam Task Force July 7, 1961

DATE : 7/14/1961

PAGES : 4

• SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000 •

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 193: Vietnam General 7/14/1961-

7/21/1961. Box 1

---

## Page 2

*Sanitigid SECRETS

N4K-75-26

July 14. 1961 FRAL 1/2

MEMORANDUM FOR MR, ROSTOW

SUBJECT. Meetings of the Viet Nam Task Force on Monday, July 7, 196i

and Thursday, July 13, 1961

Meeting on Monday, July 7

The principal item wäs a preliminary oral report by My. Paul Geren;

the State member of the Special Financial Group

gain from the SrG'& visit was a confrontation of seven American economic

soon tre but me Your asso, eye the or the get vize or pent

super lors that the Americans, were with theiro.

They wete noth

familiar With the texts of the letters that have been exchanged between the

President and Diem.

following

The Principal commitmenty made by the Yiethames wete the

To increase the tax, take through more ellectivo collection of

Kro attempt to eft government bonde,- The Vietnamese ver

To a a of the told oh not me hat he somer

o Fell bonds to the people, they, would be sold to the Central

Bank

To collect at least 750 miition additional piantone a year,

the electiye

exchange rate from 35 to 60 to the dollar.

Thi Would be accomplished by leaving the official exchange ratel see

*es which would have the effectof

There vas some discursion of the exchange raté question in thei courtes

them.andwilthupotteracreased opportun.tien

SECRET:

---

## Page 3

SECRET

for grait.

Mr. Geren pointed out, as an example of Diem's impact on the

negotiations, the fact that an initial one billion piaster estimate by the

Vietnamese had been reduced to 750 million after a talk between Diem and

the head of the GVN delegation. Mr. Geren belleved that the lengthy die-

cussions with the Vietnamese on this subject helped to convince them that

what the U. S. can contribute is a transfer of goods and services and that

the piaster problem is their problem

Diem is convinced that exchange reform in Laos was responsible

for its downfall. He argues that establishment of a unitary rate eliminated

the possibility of export to Thailand of goods supplied under the ald program

for Laos. This in turn made it impossible for the Lao Government to pay

its soldiers, which in turn led to the Kong Le revolt.

(This is a most curious,

argument and aleo a most curious use of U.S, aid supplied in Laos An you

may have noted from incoming telegrame, some effort in being made to den

velop the counter argument.)

The Vietnamese have temporarily embargoed the export of fice on

the grounds that they don't want a speculative movement in rice prices which

might regult from the capability of the Viet Cong to reduce rice supplies. to

Saigon

When the SFG suggested that di thie was a problem on which we.

might be able to give some help through our surplus.agricultural.commodity

program, the. Vietnamese:

indicated that they could not, for reanons of lace,

accept. Us

Saga cultural producte

The Vietnamese indicated that they wish next year a 5190 million com-

mercial import program from the Us

This they justiry almost wholly.on

gree to such a program

something leup than 5100 millions)

The Vietnamese represented their effort, as summaried briefly above,

as the most that they would betable to do and they look to us to pick up the

authority to permit the U.

it deceasary!

mplementation of this directive is not as complete as the U. S. would like.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

211

SECRET

Meeting on Thursday. July 13.

In the latelligence briefing additional information was given on the

recent three-service military sweep in the south; It involved 4, 000 men or

the Vietnamese side and resulted in 20 Viet Cong killed, 7 wounded, and 37

captured.

This does not seem a very large result for such a military opera

tion. Over-all (CVN-supplied) casualty figured for May and June were as

follows

Killed

Wounded;

Captured

Toual

Viet Cong

May June

824

757

67.

470

891 1227

GVN®

May June

240

187

274

158

163

439*:

634

The State briefer summartzed a

attached, contatning much int

teresting information on alleged North Vietnamese activities bearing on

The mos

striking

North Viet Nam intenda to, infiltrate no less than 30, 000 Viet: cong into

South Viet Nam during the month of July:

The state briefer was doubtfulrot

the validity of thin report and pointed out that, of course, if such an infltra-

tion occurred if would be

cadily detectable and an obyour cage of DRY

ags-ession.

ite support to the CVN.

the Cao Pal would impose conditiong on te cooperation

In the form or a request to recover omelot ite former status.

Another report indicated that agrarian reform had come to a virtual.

howeyery that walls the prostam had slowed down there continued to be some

progress.

clear information on it, he might check into it.).

* Includee 4l deserters not tacluded in breakdown

SECRET

---

## Page 5

C

Most of the meeting was given over to discussion of Viet Nam with a

press officers group which included Roger Tubby and Pierte Sälinger:

Cottrell did almost all of the talking and soon got on the subject of the etfect

of the situation in Laos on the eltuation in Viet Nam and what we might do

about it. In thie connection there was pasced out a contingency plan for an

information program to support a poseible change in U, S, policy in babes

Viet Nam®

A copy le attached. As you will note, the emphaste in thie plan

in on procedure rather than upon substance. No opportunity was given to

comment on the plan at the meeting. I today suggested to Cottrell that the

substantive aspecte be somewhat beefed up and also that the plan emphasize

the control of the operation in South Viet Nam by the DRV The plan pat

now talki about DRy intervention solely in terma of exporting aggressors

across international frontiers.

Although I had no opportunity to make the point while the prese

people were present, subsequently ouggented to the Tark Porce that one o

no one i pate he that hon to teal more much th tha

succeed la to ught gainet, the Viet Cong.

SECRET E

сурев ов

Ten mete

suggested that it might be deftable to get thie point aerous to nevomen

jest H. Jöhnson

SECRET

---

