# 176-10036-10099

## Page 1

176-10036-10099

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10099

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Central Intelligence Agency Information Report

DATE : 5/18/1963

PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

/ : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 4/63-5/63. Box 2

---

## Page 2

was hittiv

TELEGRAM INFURMATION REPURTI

TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Pietnam

material

contains

information aflecting

the Nalional Defense

transmission

or revelation of which

United States

in any manner to an unawhored person i brombinidg

conage Lows, Title 18, U.S.C

law.

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

(When Filled In)

NO FOREIGN DI

COUNTRY

VIETNAM

REPORT NO.

TDCS -3/547,646

SUBJECT

APPREHENSIONS OF VIETNAMESE CONSUL GENERAL

IN SINGAPORE REGARDING RECENT EVENTS

IN•

VIETNAM

DATE DISTR.

18 MAY 1963

PRECEDENCE • ROUTINE

DATE OF

INFO.

17: MẠY 1963

REFERENCES

IN

41548

SINGAPORE

(17 MAY 1963)

SEE BELOW

FIELD REPORT NO: FSS 12881

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

1. SUMMARY.

THAT THE COMBINATION OF THREE UNWISE POLITICAL ACTS IN THE PAST MONTH

MAY ULTIMATELY PROVE FATAL TO THE REGIME OF PRESIDENT

NGU DINH DIEM DESPITE ITS GAINS IN THE MILITARY STRUGGLE AGAINST

THE VIET COMMUNISTS (VC). THESE THREE ACTS WERE: DISMISSAL. OF

HUNH VAN LANG OF THE OFFICE OF EXCHANGES FROM HIS POSITION OF

POWER IN THE SOUTHERN FACTION OF THE CAN LAO (REVOLUTIONARY WORKER'S)

PARTY; THE DENIGRATION AND REMOVAL FROM POWER AND AUTHORITY OF

DR. TRAN KIM TUYEN, DIRECTOR OF SEPES:; AND MOST IMPORTANTLY, THE

HUE INCIDENT ON BUDDHA'S BIRTHDAY 8 MAY IN WHICH BUDDHIST PARADERS

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

NO FORFIGN DISSEM

DIA 'ARMY/ACSI

NAVY.

AIR

JCS SECOEF NSA: NIC

AID

USIA

OCt

ONE

OCR

ORR:

GROUP

Enctuded from automor

downmioding end

STATE/ INR

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

001

00

NEXO

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

FOR TK OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITONE.

40061

SANITNER NOR 01198-6-910

(15-301

---

## Page 3

SECRET

(when Fulled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS -3/547,646

" 41548

PAGE

2

WERE KILLED BY THE CIVIL GUARD.

EACH OF THESE SEPARATE ACTS HAS

SERVED TO WEAKEN THE MOTIVATION OF DIFFERENT SEGMENTS OF VIETNAMESE

AND TO FURTHER NARROW, POSSIBLY TO A FATAL DEGREE, THE BASE OF

SUPPORT FOR THE REGIME.

2.

TUYEN'S DISMISSAL IN

PARTICULAR WOULD CAUSE CONSIDERABLE INSECURITY AMONG LOYAL SUPPORTERS

AND PUBLIC SERVANTS OF THE REGIME WHO KNOW DR. TUYEN'S RECORD OF

LOYAL SERVICE TO THE PRESIDENT AND ESPECIALLY TO HIS BROTHER:, PRESI-

DENTIAL COUNSELOR NGO DINH NHU. THESE OFFICIALS CAN CERTAINLY

QUESTION WHETHER ANYONE'S POSITION IN THE REGIME IS SAFE IF TUYEN

COULD FALL FROM FAVOR.

TUYEN HAD A BAD REPUTATION WITH MANY

OFFICERS IN THE VIETNAMESE ARMY AND BUREAUCRACY AS THE HATCHETMAN

AND TROUBLESHOOTER FOR NGO DINH NHU BUT NO ONE DOUBTED HIS

- DEVOTION TO NHU. YET NHU HAS STRIPPED HIM OF ALL REAL AUTHORITY

SUPPOSEDLY BECAUSE OF A SILLY WOMEN'S TIFF BETWEEN i...

MADAME NHU AND MADAME TUYEN. ANY OBJECTIVE GVN OFFICIAL MIGHT

QUESTION THE FRIVOLITY, INGRATITUDE AND LACK OF PERSPECTIVE OF A REGIME

THAT ACTS THUS.

• 3. FURTHERMORE TUYEN WAS ONE OF THE FEW REMAINING GUN OFFICIALS

IN HIGH POSITION RESPECTED BY OPPOSITION LEADERS AND. VIETNAMESE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 4

SECRET

(Wher Pilled Im)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS -3/547,646

IN 41548

PAGE

3

INTELLECTUALS PARTICULARLY THOSE FROM NORTH VIETNAM. THOSE WHO

DID NOT LIKE HIM AT LEAST TRUSTED HIS FAIRNESS AND BASIC EMPATHY

WHEREAS THEY NEITHER TRUSTED NOR LIKED NHU EVEN THOUGH NHU HIMSELF

WAS AN INTELLECTUAL.

4. WITHIN THE CAN LAO PARTY, WHICH IS STILL ONE OF THE SECRET

MAINSPRINGS OF SUPPORT. IN VIETNAM FOR THE PRESIDENT AND THE NGO

FAMILY, THE PARALLEL REMOVAL FROM AUTHORITY OF HUYNH VAN LANG HAS

ÓCCASIONED SIMILAR DOUBTS AMONG THE PARTY'S RANK -AND-FILE. AS IN

TUYEN'S CASE, CAN LAO MEMBERS CAN QUESTION. WHAT VALUE IS LOYALTY.

AND SERVICE IF A MAN LIKE LANG CAN LOSE HIS. POST.

5..: THE EVEN MORE SERIOUS MISTAKE WHICH MAY NARROW THE BASE OF

SUPPORT FOR THE GVN TO A FATAL DEGREE WAS THE SHOOTING OF BUDDHIST

PARADERS AT HUE ON THE OCCASION OF BUDDHA'S BIRTHDAY. . THE HUE

REGIME OF CENTRAL VIETNAM COUNSELOR NGO DINH CAN HAS ALWAYS OPERATED

LIKE AN AUTONOMOUS POLICE STATE AND HAS BEEN NOTORIOUS FOR ITS :

FAVORITISM TOWARD CATHOLICS; BELYING PRESIDENT DIEM'S

EARLIER REPUTATION FOR RELIGIOUS TOLERANCE. MANY VIETNAMESE

CATHOLICS FEAR THAT THE GN'S INCREASING PRO-CATHOLIC BENT WILL BE

HARMFUL TO THE CHURCH. AS WELL AS TO THE REGIME. CERTAINLY THE

STUPID SUPPRESSION ÖF BUDDHIST RELIGIOUS FLAGS AT HUE ON 8 MAY (ON

PRETEXT THAT THEY MIGHT BE CONSTRUED AS CONNECTED TO VC COMMEMORATION

OF THE DIEN BIEN PHU VICTORY) :

AND CONSEQUENT. FATALITIES WILL AROUSE THE ANTAGONISM OF PREDOMINANTLY;

CLASSIFICATION ÷ DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 5

SECRET

(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS- 3/547,646

BUDDHIST VIETNAM AGAINST BOTH THE REGIME AND THE CATHOLICS.

IN 41548

PAGE

WHEN CENTRAL VIETNAM AUTHORITIES ORDERED POLICE

TO EXECUTE THE DIRECTIVE BANNING FLAGS, INITIALY THE POLICE MERELY

RESTATED THE ORDER BUT WOULD NOT RIP DOWN ANY BUDDHIST FLAGS.

FINALLY SEVERAL CATHOLIC POLICE DID SO, BUT SOME BUDDHIST POLICE-

MEN REFUSED, SAYING THAT BUDDHIST FLAGS SHOULD BE PERMITTED JUST

AS CATHOLIC FLAGS ARE FLOWN ON SAINTS DAYS. SUCH DEFIANCE OF ORDERS 1

AT HUE IS QUITE RARE,

7. THE CROWNING INSULT TO BUDDHISTS WHICH WILL FURTHER ENFLAME THEM

AND ALSO REVIVE THE OUTCRY AGAINST NGO FAMILY RULE WAS

THE NEWS OF HUE ARCHBISHOP NGO DINH THUC'S PLAN THAT THE PRESIDENT

ASK BUDDHIST ASSOCIATIONS ELSEWHERE IN VIETNAM TO CONDEMN THE

CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE: AND DISORDER OF THE HUE BUDDHISTS. ARCHBISHOP

THUC REPORTEDLY WENT TO SAIGON TO DEMAND THIS. THE VC COULD NOT

HAVE A BETTER PROPAGANDA WEAPON IF THEY HAD LAUNCHED THE IN-

CIDENT AND DIRECTED THUC'S REACTION THEMSELVES.

8. BY SUCH ACTS THE REGIME IS DESTROYING CONFIDENCE AND LOYAL

MOTIVATION OF PUBLIC SERVANTS, INTELLECTUALS, PARTY SUPPORTERS, AND

THE MASS OF NON-CATHOLIC PEASANTRY IN ITS MOST CRUCIAL TIME.

IF THIS CONTINUES ONLY SYCOPHANTS AND XENOPHOBES WILL

PREDOMINATE IN THE GVN AND ITS RELATIONS WITH ITS PEOPLE, BUREAU-

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 6

4

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS - 3/547,646

CRACY, ARMY AND FRIENDLY ALLIES WILL DETERIORATE IN A WELTER OF

PETTY JEALOUSIES, FEUDS, AND PREJUDICES:

9. FIELD DISSEM: STATE (CONGEN .ONLY) CINCPAC PACAF PACFLT

ARPAC.

IN 41548

PAGE

5

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

