# 176-10036-10114

## Page 1

176-10036-10114

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10114

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO :

TITLE : CIA Information Telegram

DATE : 7/13/1963

PAGES : 7

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 198: Vietnam, 7/1/1963-7/20/63. Box 2

---

## Page 2

+N4K-812671N180945DOWNGARDED

TELEGRAM IN ORMATION REPURT TELEGRAM

NTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

no fronmation dier offacing

EiRioRago Rome. Tito 1D. U.S.C

SECRET

CLASSIFICATIONE DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

When filled in)

NO FOREIGN, DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE

SSE ONLY

COUNTRY:

SOUTH VIETNAM

CURE CRAVErUMaY REPORTNO: "TOCS-08-3/655}5232)

13

SUBJECT

CHEERALE MID COMMENTS ON NGO CANA CHU GEE DATE DISTR 13 JULY 1963

BaN/FLUNG WITHHS GENERAL OFFICERS.

DATE OF.

E HE BECEED INAL SEE ME TREL VIOLENCES LYMENAEE NY G9141 :

INFO. НЕЛ ЗЕБУСРОЗВЕСИ ТИО LEM НО ВЕГІЕЛЕ ІНТІ НЕ МЕ ЗіМОЕВЕ"

APPRAiSAL

ФАРАО СУ СЛІЯОЙ (13 94 1963)

og-THIs, Is,UNEYALUATED.INFORMATION..SOURCE.GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

AN AMER TAN OBSERVER'(B)Y FROM AN AMERICAN GOVERNMENT OFTIC AC (0) AN HVD

УВОЛі КАЛЕ ОБ ІНЕ СЕИЕВУГа БЗЕРИК НУД ВЕСИ

STATEMENTS

VOCCION BRIGADIER GENERALLE VANCE MADE THERE NING BATIMENTS

N 9 I LIVE MICH CANTEE TOO CERANOE SECURERS

MYSA DE HE TA MERIGADIER GENERAL PHAMASUAN CHES ORONS MORE NAMED

INSPECTORS OR THEIS PATECIG HAY SEPROGRAM BEG BENOCENANO

MADEYBY INGO DINH NHU DURING A SECRET MEETING AT THE JOINT GENERAL

ISTAFF HEADQUARTERS OND WELLYLE" WHICH KIM AVID HE COMATOCHED MA

MEMBRANCO OUTNU CALLED ALL OF TECHNERAL TOES AS BEE ON

A CEREMONY ORENINGA: SPECIAL STRATEGICAME QUESTO OR GENERALS

VOR ICERS INU MASSYEBY ERIENO PURING THEM SEING HAD FLATTERED

DTHE GENERALS LANE ISQLICLTEPCTHELR SUEFORE MOSTHE STRATEGIE HAMLET

CONG DENTIAL DEMOREOCLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATON CONTROLA&MOGEY GOOFES

LOSE RETRO 29, 109186017E A 5 NIC

ВЕНІ НЕПИС О-КАСІВ ПЛА

DIA' ARMY ACSO NAVY AIR

Jes.

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

MMEDIATE TOE DURNSALPROO WORE:

V104

DUSTATE RCO COR HUGHES) PNA/SUIC

JCS

NO (Op. 922 Y:1:)

OF//ACs I

TELEGRAM

ROOM

NV.-

---

## Page 3

ino?

SECRET

(when ruled. M)

3у (о6 доз

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION COMTROLSE) GEOG WRONGE 210155/0

IN: 79141

NO FOREIGNED ISSEM/BACKGROUND-USE ONLY

TOCS 0B-3/6558523103

0116

01 L

PROGRAM SI

NHU HAD CRITICIZED THE GOVERNMENT HANDL TING OF THETBUDDH IST

LSITUATION_AND REMARKED THAT: MIF THE ARMY WASATHINKING OF A COUPLE

DIETAT, HE DIDNOT BLAME THE OFFICERS AND WOULD ENVIE TO MarcI

NHU ADDED: THATO THES BUDDHIST PROBLEM MISHTATH ENEBEI

SOLVED.

MOG/ ErVILENED

DEPEND UPON

COENNHU SAID THAT THE MLETNAMESES COULD ON COFPEND ON CEMENY

THEMSEL TO DEFEATE THE COMMUNI URE CAUSEATHE COULP NOT DEPEND ON

THOSE WHO MIGHT WANTATO NEGOTIATE, WHICH KIM SAID HE CONSIDERED ANS

OBVIOUS ALLUSION TOMTHE AMERICANS SEL WEELING VI INC TOTAL ONIEBYE

INTO LOM SAIDITHAT VOID NOT CHINAT PRES DEMONSEN WAS INE

AWARD HATEN HAD SALESHE SENERALSA CHE PRESIDEN NOLOWNED

NOT BELIEVE ANYKREPORTS: THAT SUCH STATEMENTS HAD BEEN MADE BECAUSE

ACCORDING TO KIM, DIEM MAST ETSEP RASONER CAN BODERLE

ABOUT GIVE OF THE GENERALS PRESENT HAD BEEN

FAVORABLY IMPRESSED WITH HUTS REMARKS BECAUSE THEY OWED THEIR

FOR ADVANCE MENER, SONAL TOO LONGE GO OS THE GENERALS CHO ENER HAD.

NHU HAD TREATED THE GENERALS AS THOUGH

BUCEP

DECERE CHILDREN ANO FEM HAD BELIEVED THAT HE WAS SINCERE.

HE BELIEVED THAT THIS WAS JUST ANOTHER NHU MANEUVER *ANDITI

REMARKED O MANY DIP HE HOLD SUCH A MECTING NOW AFTER YEARS OF

CRITCIZING AND UNDERMINING ARMYGLEADERSHIPCDI

13 mr 1903

ZANIELD DISSEM STATE (AMBASSADOR, USMACY (GENERAL HARKINS.)

096027 9:

MARC GO FEE. ONTA

DALEND OF MESSAGE

SECRET

NO FOREIGN PASSEM BACKGROUND. USE

MINER CHE

---

## Page 4

TELEGRAM

N5K-81•2698 N4K-89-15+ DOUNGRADED:

INTER MATION REPERT

TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCYS

COUNTRY

SUBJECT.

794 he tranemistion or revelation of

CONFIDENTIAL

SSE CRET

SOUTH VIETNAM

COMMENTS ON REPORTS OF NGO DINE

NHU'S COUP PLOTTING

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM NO DISSIM ABROAD

BACKGROUND USE ONLY

REPORT NO. TDCSDB-3/655,524

DẶTE DISTR,

13 JULY 1963

107. 300

PRECEDENCE, PRIÖRITY

V73 40-9 0076128L SATAY:

DATE. OF

A INFO

•PLACE &

DATE: ACO

13: JULY 1963

VIETNAM, SAIGON (13 JIX 1963)

13 202

carto

do sadare Granty

GAPPRAISAL

FIELD REPORT NO,

THIS IS UNEVALUATED'INFORMATION.SSOURCE GRADINGS.ARE DEFINITIVE:APPRAISAL.OF/CONTENT ISTENTATIVE.M

SOURCE JOINT EMBASSY/CAS

FoLLoWInG ARE THE JOINT EMBASSY/CAS. COMENISION TIE FOUR REPORTS CONCERNING THEN

iT JULY 1963 MEETING AT, JOINE GENERAL STAFT HEADQUARTERS SO THE FIRST OF, THESE, A

CAME TROM ERICADTOR CENERAL VAY THAN CAO TELECATE TOXIE TASTERN PROVINCTS DON

SATCON AMEMBEL BO TO OTHER REPORTS ON EXONE FROM BRICADTOR GENERALS

NGUYIN-KHANE, COMMANDING CENTRAL 11 CORPSSTDESDE 3/6551512 (TVS-9302) AND, Pu

THE OTHER FROM A CINERAL OFFICERY DCSDE 37635;5172(TS- 9305) 1H9 TOURT GONCE

REPORT IS TROM BRICADIER GENDRAT. LE VAN KIM. MINISTRY OF VAITONAL. DEFENSE,

ALL ON THESE REPORTS HAVE SOME ELEMENTS IN COMMON, THEY DIFFER

WIDELY IN DETAIL AND EMPHASTS AS COMMON CLAMENTS AREAS SOONERA a prunanna:

REE MELTING AS CALLED BY NAU; RIS NOIZAR BORD DE ONES TO

CONFiDENTIAL:

SO O-R-E-T

AAMY/.ACSI

CLASSIFICATIONE DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FORDTOY DISSEM NO PISSEM ABROAD CRACKCROUND USERONEY RECE

SECOES

Tiam dione

6x0

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

FOR 1K6 OBSOLETS PREVIOUS EDITIONe

---

## Page 5

520

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLSE

NO FOREIGN DISSEM 1 NO, DISSEM ABROAD 202

A BACKCROUND USE ONLY AL

TOCSDE 5/655,52403

MUURESKASHDATEY

AGE

899225

BUDDHIST CRISIS;

INHU PROMISED THE CENERALS ATMORE ACTIVE ROLE IN THE WAR ANDJ

ASS 2 I DELT PROMISED TO CIVE GHOSE CENERALS WHOSE POSTITIONS ARE SINECURES

дов вековы

RESUS TO SNO MATE AN APPEAR OR THE LOYALTY OF THE CENTRALS (10 WHOM TS

ERSUSU TE LEON THE QUESTION AT T

WEE OLAS LACTUALLY CHERD MAY SHAVE BEENWO MINTINGS BETYEON NEU VAND THE CENERALS

TONES JIT THE PERSE WAS ASTORMAL METHING TAT JOTNI, CANERAL STArT OFFICES ENTER

SECOND OTEOWED IMMEDTATELY AFTER THE TIRST ATITHE CONN CURS CLUS ANNIFER TOTY'

CONGRAT CRATE THE CENTRAL OFF TOBRISTAN'S CUPARLY THAT HIS REPORT PERIVES TROM

THE OFFICEES CHUB PARK, PARLOUGU HE VAT LENDE DE BOTH METHINGS WE ARE NOTICLEAR AS

NO THOSE FRESENE AR DITHER MINT

FRAL KHANH STATE SETHAL THERE, ABOUT

FOURTEN! CANERALS TY ATTENDANCE WHEN NEW MAD THE REMARKS HE REPORTED WENEX

CLUDING UNE WETAPPOTNIED BRICADIE

'CENERAI DO CAO VIRT THERE ARE NOW NINE ISN

DUENCO GENERALS IN THE SARMY OF THE REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM A ARVND.

Noon errant a neare

I CENTRAL OFFICERS PEPORT IS THE ONLY ONE ON THREE WATCH IS

Larence

EXPLICIE WITE PEGARD TO A COUP LED BY NHU:

WITH RESPECT TO SPECIFICITY PIT IS:

WORTH NOT

NO THAT KHANH, CAO, AND KTM HAVE HAD LONG TIME RELATIONSHIPS WITH THE

INDIVIDUALS TO WHOM THEY SPOKE

BASE

SIS:

NORTHWELLE DO COMPARE THE REMARKS-AHEELBUTED TO NEU BY THE

Kindnes Di

FICATI

ATION CON

HURRAY.

NOTFOREIGN, DES

EMS NO DISSEM ABROAD

A BABKGROUND USE ONLY

---

## Page 6

(15):

52

S-E-C-R-E-T

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS 10 020.32415

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NO. DISSEM ABROAD

TDCSDB-3/655,524

BACKGROUND USES ONLY

RIAPALSA

PAGE & THREE

GENERAL OFFICER WITH THE REPORT OF THE CONVERSATION BETWEEN NEU AND AN AMERICAN.

OBSERVER ON 25 JUNE; CSDB-3/655,373

AT THAT TIME NHU INDICATED, AS HE HAD.

PREVIOUSLY, THAT IF HE BELIEVED THE GOVERNMENT, MEANING DIRM, WAS HECOMING

SERVILE TO THE CITED STATES

HE HIMSELF WOULD LEAD A COUP D'ETAT

A0 08 MO SOR WANCE

BOTH CAO'S REPORT. AND KHANH'S REPORTS INDICATE THAT NEU'S REMARKE

HAD SO CONSTERALE TRACT NOT CORALS CAO RELIVED FEAT NESS AN I

MITH CONTA COUPSTAT

ON THE, OTHER BAND, KIM THOUGHT THAT TEE

DEAS ON JANET DIA NACHEDES

MATCHED THE CHIRAS ACTED NICE ACCORDIO CERA ONCER

THY M80 2020

MAJOR GENERAL NGUYEN NGOC LE

THAT TAGS ON BONY

SOUGHT. TO SAVE HIMSELF

мова пилла win

SHOUTCONSEA TO POR NONE ORRY

MARRIAGE OF -CONVENIENC

ACTUAS SUVATOO TARY TO VALUAT EXACITY MEAT NEU MAY HAVE TY NAND

IS POSTON EAT THE

MOSTESSE

23 UNS AS PERE ATION FOREVER, MUST TAKE INTO CONTREATON, MUS

STATEMENT THAT DID COUP MUST TE STACED OVERNICHT-AND MUST DO-LICHINING -FASTE

SLASSIAICATION DISSEMINATION, CONTROLS

S-E-OR-B-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEMENT NO DISSEM ABROAD

BACKCROUND USMAONLY.

---

## Page 7

52

2-5-0-3-3-8

CLASSIFICATION PIESEMISATION CONTROLS

Hichn

KLSI S9U0

S-E-C-R-E-I

O FORCKOR OIN VITONS PISEN AEOA

93702DE.139

TDCS DB-3/655,524

PAGE -FOUR-

52. 202*:

wra Teree

790,3

FOLLIER PYA TUPOYEN O POEN FON THE CENERA OFIORS DO CTYLLTAN CONTRO

ILIS DETUE TO FELEN TAT THES CONSTRUCETON COUD TE RASED OVTE

-TIMES VAGUE AND

THE ORETICAL

16 F

2032

LERAES NVO MaLaSaTioe

WSS IIGE DE COLLLSVE THAT SOME CENERAIS ARE PLANVING, OR AT THE VERX LEÄST;

MORO. TYHENSTVEEXO FINKNG ABOUT COUE

OUP ACTTONEOH TE GNERAIS RLANS OR

GHEE HE SEPTZARD

EEAON OESEE COEA ONES ACOUNAT PES AOI OICA

ECESS RILY TOSLONT AOUTS EN TACE COLENRTATING A•COUT

OSSIBLE

NACU ФИБТ XOO.EN-ASO0 TB:

OING SO WITH: THE&KNOWLEDGE O

TuADE COMNICE COnS DRESGOUS CURY EMDIER Lecnad dayu s

MAO GIT TANYA DI CORN OIE CA TOE AIN CO

IS EXACCERATED.

WNE TTSFE FAMPITCSTA

AAGTPA CONENES O AOIE NEN GAS ANN CRO AETS TEN 1

WO OR MORE .GROUPS AMONG THEM

во на оа о кии з аБока трски дим теле вени

DISSEM:

MANG HOD OASSNANON NTA

NE MOIID ISVY D CORS DEUAE

AFATCherE MO S MUTRAEND Or MESSAGat vevanie brat ara Brenne

EA adengrons ond muna cAso dA MEra eoemo angas no sovsaio

43 410:

patcas te an wu harad orencroo dalu monsnt eposaamo wano

DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

120 mea

FICATION PIECSA WISUID EASCODE CeBeSr

S-DCR-E-T TCONA NOU OREIGN DISSEMESAEE

C NOADISSEM: ABROAD:

1243

BACKGROUND USE ONLY

---

## Page 8

TELEGRAM

INFO

RMATION REPO

TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE ÁGENCY

Vietran

95 and rial continmition di ravalains

Iranimission or revelation of which

*nich in any menner fo the united Stad serioin

Lams, Pulle 18, V.S.C• Sees

person is prohibited

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

•S-E-C-R-E-I

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NO. DISSEM ABROAD

BACKGROUND USE ONLY

•COUNTRY

SOUTH VIETNAM

SUBJECT

COMMENTS ON REPORTS OF NGO DINH

NHU'S COUP FLOTTING

REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/655,524 CORRECT

DATE DISTR.

15 JULY 1963

PRECEDENCE.

PRIORITY

DATE OF

13 JULY 1963

REFERENCES

IN

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ..

VIETNAM, SAIGON (13 JULY 1963)

APPRAISAL

• FIELD REPORT NO:

*THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS. TENTATIVE.

• SOURCE

JOINT EMPASSY/ CAS:

C-0-R-R-E-C-I-I-0-N

A: FOUR PAGE INTFORMATION REPORT WITH THE ABOVE NUMBER WAS ISSUED ON 13 JULY

1963:

THE FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL PARAGRAPH SHOULD BE ADDED TO THE REPORT.

10:

WITH RESPECT TO THE GENERAI OFFICER, WE HAVE SAID THAT HIS REPORTING

RECORD HAS BEEN GOOD AND THAI IN THIS INSTANCE HE PROVIDES CIRCUMSTANTIAL

DETAIL.

NEVERTHELESS, THE DISCREPANCIES BETWEEN HIS REPORT AND THOSE

REFERRED TO FROM THE THREE OTHER SOURCES REMAINS EXTREMELY PUZZLING AND WE

REQUIRE MORE. TIME. FOR INVESIIGATION AND ASSESSMENT.

IF IT WERE NECESSARY TO

REACH A JUDGEMENT IMMEDIATELY, WE WOULD HAVE IO RENDER IT AGAINST THE GENERAL

OFFICER'S VERSION:

END OF MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-Er

CLASSIFICATION = DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD

BACKGROUND-USE

ONLY

.CIB

CROUP Y

Esstudad from

engroding on

Be BanRas

STATE/INR

DIA ARMY/ACS NAVY AIR SCSS SECDEF I

NSA:!.

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

INFOR

DA OCI: ONE. I

DDI

ATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

FORM 1KЬ OBSOLETS PREVIOUS SITIONS

(15-29)

---

