# 176-10036-10117

## Page 1

176-10036-10117

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10117

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO :

TITLE : CIA Information Telegram

DATE: 7/18/1963

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 198: Vietnam, 7/1/1963-7/20/63. Box 2

---

## Page 2

TELEGRAM

•SEE SANITIZED VERSIONI DOWNERADED-NLK-84.13

1: 2296r07: 65

INFORMATION REPORT

20 1801

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ON

contains intormation aftecting

-tranimission "orrer

SECRET

TELEGRAM

зові

*.U:S.C=50e

"CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

Savietnan

.SH NO FOREIGN, DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COUNTRYUS SQUTE VIETNAM LHE GO SIANO ONINEEE I REPOBINO. TOCS DB-3/655;605-

SUBJECT

MAJOR GENERAL DUONG: VAN MINH COMMENTS ON CIDATE DISTRE DE18 JULY 4963ECCAVE

THE CURRENT SITUATION AND ON THE NEED FOR

INCIA CHANGE IN THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

1HNE T9 LHE REFERENCES LIRE NEI HIN? 82083

INFO.

DATE ACO 7 VIETNAM, SAIGON (27 JULY 1963) HrE LENCA MULA LEE/SO 10 14E

SFE. BELOW

FIELD REPORT.NO..FVS-9322 565

-THIS IS' UNEVALUATED INFORMATIÓN. SOURCE GRADINES ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENT

SOURCE

APPR

GENERAI, DUONG VAN, MINH PROBABLY HOLDS CHESE VIEWS INO

-IS KNOWN TO HAVE BEEN. DISGRUNILED WITH THE

GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM SINCE 1960.

HAY: SUMMARY

ON I6 JULY 1963 MAJOR GENERAL DUONG VAN MINH,

LHE ENDDHIZIE®

MESTARY ADVI SORO TO PRESIDENT DIEN, ERITICIZED"THE PRESIDENT , SAIO

THAT HE EACKED THE SUPPORT OF THE PEOPLE,-

ДНЕ ЭШИН ХТЛЕН®

AND ADVOCATED A CHANGE

TOA216V1104 0c 0l2N12

THE REGIME, BUF ASSERTED THAT NGO DINH NAU COULD NOP FAKE

OVER THE

COVERMENTE HE ANSỞ SAID: THAT BRIGADIER GENERAL DO CAN TEO DOU

REMAIN IN C

COMMAND OF THE

HE CONIER MUR CAICEO

O GENERAL MINH MABE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS:

1ые муз увоусела ми міс

FLIES, PRESIDENT BMEN MAS CHANGED SO COMPLETELY THATRI HYS NO MA

LÖNGER POSSTBLE TO REASON WITH HIM.

LIME 1O HONE CHUNCED THE

CONEUANEML

IN THE EARLY DAYS HE HAD THE

SUPPORT OF THE PEOPLE AND WAS

POPULAR THROUGHOUT SOUTH VIETNAM,

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRETAEN

GLASSIFIGATION - PISSEMINATION CONTROLE

NO TOREION DISSIM/NO DISSIAM ABROAD/BACKEROUND, USE

" GROUP.

ROIE

ARMYSACSI

MAYY

AIR

SEGDEF

NSA

MIG

VS TA

951.

ONE

ĐEA

OAA

:0017:00

ATEYD'TA

TELEGRAM

INFORMATIO

NO REPORT

LONI CONIETR

TELEGRAM

65

1K

OBSOLETE FREVIOUS IDITIONS

:(1690)

---

## Page 3

rtloodh

1.0 )

ICATION

VATION CONTI

SECRET

Frwhen

'Filled.

. NO FOREIGN. DISSEM/ NO DISSEM SABROAD

MDCS DB-3/655,

605

BACKGROUND USE ONLYI

er is

CAATE DERISAS!

IT WAS-A SIMPLE MATTER AT THAT TIMERTO CAIN THE SÜPPORT OF THEME

PEASANTS FOR THE VARIOUS PROGRAMS OF THE GOVERNMENT.

"THEN HE BEGAN

SCREENING HIMSELF T

IN AND BY 1959 HE HAD LOST COMPLETE TOUCH WITH

PEOPLE:

THẤT MÃY HAVE BEEN THE FIME TO HAVE CHANGED THE GOVERNMENT.

AFTER 1960 BIEM CHANGEO COMPLETELY, BECOMING CONVINCED THAT HE WAS

OPERATING UNDER A MANDATE FROM HEAVEN.

THTS WAS APPÄRENT IN HIS

REMARKS'

ONOE UULY WHEN HE SATD THAT THE COUNTRY WAS GUIDED. BY

MAsPOnFAvE wiSDOMea ano duos Buoreica aoaecer De cyo der MuerD

LHE SES!" THE GUOORTS YSSUE IS AN ILLUSTRATION OF DIEMIS IRRATIONAL

ATTI TUDE!CHDPEM TOLD MINH ON 13 JULY THAT THE BINH XUYEN,

HE GOEFEE СИО ПОЛОСУЕСУ СЛАСЕ

THẾ THOA

HAO TAO "PAL CÃO RAT WERE ALL SFRONGER HAN IHE EUBRISES." THEI"

HẠO RECULAR-ARMEDN

ССИЕКУГ СПОИС

MES AII

TRÖOPS BUT THE GOVERNMENT WAS-STULLWABLE HOr SE)° M

YESE DETES: THEM O MY SAMOE TH COVERMENT ALSO "OIFLAS-HE MONKS,

PONC NO HAVE NETHENARMS NOB MILATABY ORGANIZATIONZ-MINH, WAS, UNABLE

VRUME TÒ CORG NGELHE PRESTDENT- THAM THE SITUATIONS VERE NOI THE SAMEAS

FYEYBECAUSE OF THETRUGIDI SIAND DIEM HAS TAKEN WITH REGARD TO THE

(4LO

EhRE G BUDDHyST.STe

JCOMMENT. THIS IS THE LF IRSTRTIME. MINH HAS MADE

SUCH STRONG: STATEMENAS AGAINSTA DILEM-)

SunCRdEY.CS

yohauks

asgiSet

SR CPHE BuBbENST

PROBLEM

MIS FAR FROM-SETTLEDA ALT NS,-BECOMING

SAMLWORSESAND UNLESS THE GÖVERNMENT CHANGES ITS POLUCYSTHERE WILLSBE

ADDLTIONAL : BUDDHI ST: SELEIGIMMOLATIONSTASEN VENCIDÀDICKOSCIEID JEG VEX

S. D. THERE- MUST-BÊ-A CHANGE IN THE "COVERNMENT

ISANM

-SOUTH VIETNAM

SECRET

BAI :ICND, 330

CIASSIFICATIONE DISSEMINATION CONTRONS

NO POREION DISSEN ÃO DISSEM AGROAN/BACKCROUND USE OIE PY

N91112 03 215

IgEGAb

---

## Page 4

18

anger tarifie

072400114990014

3. 2

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET: =*NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

(When Filled In)

BACKGROUND USE ONLY

TDCS DB=3/655,605

IN 82083

PAGE

3

1S LIKE A YOUNG TREE; IT HAS FIRM ROOTS AND IS GRÖWING BUT IT MUST

HAVE A PROPER ATMOSPHERE SO THAT ITS LEAVES, I.E:, THE PEOPLE, CAN

BREATHE.PHTHI'S AS LACKING AN- SOUTHE VIETNAM.

ME. INGO DINHENHU CAN NEVER TAKEOVER THEM GOVERNMENT;'SHOULD"

THE SUCCEED, MUT WOULD PROVE THAT THE VIET CONG (VC) ARE RIGHT IN

CLAIMING THAT THE VO ARE THE ONLY ONES-WHO REALLY EIGHT: FOR THESI36

РЕОРФЕЗИ!

COMMENT ZAMAJOR@ GENERAL TRANSVAN DONE COMMANDINGS&'

'GENERAL' OF! THE: ARMYNAND" BRIGADIER GENERAL LE VAN-KIM, SMIN STRYAHN,a

OERNATIONAL DEFENSE, (AREMMINHE SECLOSESFRIENDSH) TO Y AESA BIHONG

1N6ORE!BY GE PRESIDENTANGUYEN NGOCKTHOSTOLD MINION 15" JULYHTHATH

IT*WAS VIRTUAELY IMPOSSIBLEMTODOBTAINLAN' AGREEMENTVBETWEENITHEIVVY

BUDDHISTSLANDSTHE@GOVERNMENTEBECAUSEETHE SELFERRIDEOF CERTAIN REYAYW

*INDIVIDUA@S OYDED THEENHUSDANDYARCHBISHOP NGOVDINTHUGSHADE tHE

BECOME LINVOLVED.

•THỌ HẠS BEEN WANTING TO RESIGN 'BUT WAS NOT EVEN

RERMLTTED 27O1SUBMIT ACETTEROOF LRESIGNATION? HESSTILL INTENDSCIOSH

GOWTHROUGH WITH LIT, HOWEVER DE (FLEED/CONMENTONCEVS-92435(4D3-5/552,503,

H° VREPORTEDTHAT D LEM HADSREFUSEDITO ACCEPTLTHOUS WRITTEN

RESIGNATION, SUEMITTED ONTEKUEY; V5-9256, s-3/552,565,;

REPORTED

THO IS STATEMENTAVTHAT HE EWANTED TOERESIGN BUTWAS UNCERTAINLASOTO THE

TIMINGE)ILZ НЕ МІНИІИС О ІНЕ МАУ УВИЛИСЬ ІНЕ ЛО Та ИОД СІНГА У

G..

IF. THE MILITARY PRESSURE AGAINST THE VC CAN BE CONTINUED

LAN TATHE, PRESENT RATE FOR PAYEAR, THE ARMY CAN DISRUPT THE VE ARMEDS

DISS

EMINATION CONTROL

SECRET.

STANCHO FOREIGN DISSEM NO DISSEN-ABROAD/BACKGROUND-USE-ONLY

---

## Page 5

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM-ABROAD-

IN: 82$03

TDCSDB-3/655,605

when PieD 555001 LBACKGROUND USE ONLY

1A 142 4.

321611

* 14714

AYS AGORE CE. 000112220

INSURGENTS. THE WINNING OF THE WAR AGAINST THE VC IS NOT SIMPLY A:

MILITARY: PROBLEM, HOWEVER; BUT ONE THAT REQUIRES THE SUPPORT OES AME

THE: PEOPLE,' AND THIS TS-LACKING.

K5SOU1SS

H:

NOSTROUBLE IS ANTICIPATED FROM THE VC ON THE 2& JULY CA

ANNIVERSARY OF-THE SIGNING OF THE GENEVA ACCORDS; BUrNE

STUDENTS Jo?'

MIGHT_CAUSE TROUBLE BECAUSE ON THE SUICIDE OF OPPOSITIONISTENGUYEN

20 85219

• 205. 179 MOL. EXEL

ICORBRIGADIER GENERAL-DO CAO TRI WILL REMAININ COMMANDCOF THE

ISTSINEANTRYCDIVISION EORETHEST MACBEING AND BRIGADIER GENERAL LEAN

CHEM WILLOREMA IN IN COMMAND ORSI CORPS, WHICHEPLACES NGHIEMEIN AN

IMPOSSIBLE POSITIONAS THENTWO MEN DO NOT GET ALONG WELL WITHLEACH

OTHER: ICTRT! SEPROMOTION WAS/ DESERVED BECAUSE HE IS A VERY STRONG

BICHTER, DECEIELD-COMMENT. ELF.VSS9302/Dosp1-3/655,s1exW/REPORTED NHU'S

STATEMENT THAT CRYCHAD/BEEN PROMOTEDAND NAMED/COMMANDER COFvICORPS.

EV$49267, 1000 3/550/409/55 BIREPORTED NGHIEM GESTATEMNT OF tHIS -DESIRE

TO RESTON FROM THEFARMYCE HVI LAST ACT COME (AC) VOS BICHE 1A

3. FIELD DISSENTIN STATE(AMBASSADOR ENOLTING USMAEV/GENERAL

HARKINS ONLY) P CINGPAE PAGFLT ARPAE /PACAF,""

140012 770 12 26044C 80111 46121

ELASTHEATIONE BI!

FA MESSA

MIHA TON CONTROLT

3

Tor 9S093

SECRET

---

