# 176-10036-10051

## Page 1

176-10036-10051

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10051

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

• TO :

TITLE : Central Intelligence Agency Information Report

DATE : 8/10/1963

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 48: Cuban Subjects: Exiles information

report. Box 1

0o assoc

---

## Page 2

SANITIZED 14 01-046-4-3-5

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

United States within

Cilan extis

the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.€ Secs.

S5

SECRET

(When Filled 14)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY CUBA NICARAGUA

SUBJECT

POSSIBLE ESTABLISHMENT OF. A CUBAN

EXILE BASE : IN NICARAGUA

REPORT NO: TDCS -3/556,052

DATE DISTR.

10 AUGUST. 1963

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

DATE OF

INFO.

24: Jury 1963

REFERENCES

TDCS-3/555,529

IN 97132

PLACE &

DATE ACO. ENGLAND,.. LONDON (9 AUGUST 1963)

APPRAISAL 3

FIELD REPORT NO.

DEL 35,970

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED AS "WELL-KNOWN AND EXPERIENCED

IN REPORTING, PROBABLY RELIABLE, QUOTING ROMANI."

1.: IN PRIVATE CONVERSATION/24 JULY 63, SALVADOR ROMANI, REPRESENT-

ATIVE IN VENEZUELA OF CUBAN EXILE ORGANIZATION COMANDO UNIFICADO

DE. LA LIBERACION ÉN CUBA (UNITED COMMAND OF CUBAN LIBERATION = CULC),

CLAIMED THAT A SMALL' NUMBER CUBAN EXILES HAD ALREADY MOVED FROM

MIAMI TO NICARAGUA. IN EXILE CIRCLES IT IS BELIEVED THIS ACTION

REFLECTS A PREVIOUS AGREEMENT BETWEEN PRESIDENT SOMOZA OF NICARAGUA

AND MANUEL ARTIME, SECRETARY GENERAL OF EXILE GROUP MOVIMENTO DE*

RECUPERACSION REVOLUCIONARIA (MOVEMENT OF REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY -

MRR). ROMANI DID NOT KNOW DETAILS OF AGREEMENT. IF IT ENTAILS

ESTABLISHMENT OF A LARGE-SCALE EXILE MILITARY BASE IN NICARAGUA,

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

JCS

SECDEF

NIC

LAID

USIA

GROUP I

Excluded lean outer

downgrading onc

TATE/ INR

DIA ARMY/ACSO NAVY

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

AIR

oct. 1

ONE

OCR

TREASURY

I&NS

INFORMATION REPORT

ORR

EXO

COAST GUARD

TELEGRAM

FORE IK OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

10-82

(15-30)

---

## Page 3

55

SECRET

when Filed in)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS -3/556,052

IN 97.32

PAGE

2

OTHER EXILE GROUPS WILL AWAIT REACTION OF UNITED STATES. BEFORE

DECIDING THEIR OWN COURSE OF ACTION.

2. NUCLEUS/SUCH A BASE WOULD BE DRAWN FROM THRÈE TO FOUR THOUSAND

EXILES WHO, ACCORDING TO ROMANI, HAVE PREVIOUSLY RECEIVED MILATARY

TRAINING FROM MEMBERS/U.S. ARMED FORCES. ROMANI CLAIMED U.S.

POLICY IS TO FERMENT INTERNAL RESISTANCE IN CUBA AND/STRENGTHEN THE

RESISTANCE BY INFILTRATION OF TRAINED COMMANDO GROUPS OF EXILES.

FOR THIS REASON THE U.S. CONTINUES/GIVE TACIT SUPPÖRT FOR TRAINING

OF EXILE MILITARY ORGANIZATIONS.

3. ROMÄNI MADE FOLLOWING REVIEW OF POLICIES OF PRINCIPAL EXILE

PARTIES:

(A) CULC IS CONCENTRATING ON DISSEMINATIÓN/ANTI-CASTRO

PROPAGANDA IN CUBA TO PREPARE GROUND FOR INSURRECTION. IT FAVORS

INFILTRATION/SMALL MILITARY GROUPS BUT REJECTS A GENERAL INVASION.

(Bi) JURE (JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA), LED BY MANUEL RAY, CONSIDERS THE .

PRINCIPLE: REQUIREMENT IS TO SECURE SUPPORT OF DISCONTENTED ELEMENTS

IN CUBAN MILITIA AND ARMED FORCES.

(C) •ALLIANCE OF MRP (MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO POPULAR),

SECOND: FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY AND ALPHA 66, SUPPORTS CONTINUATION OF. HIT-

AND-RUN RAIDS ON CUBAN MAINLAND IN. ORDER/MAINTAIN MORALE OF RESISTANCE

•FORCES IN CUBA.

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 4

55

*ECRET

Zon ted In

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS - 3/556,052

IN

3 97132

PAGE 3

D) SEVERAL GROUPS, INCLUDING UME (UNIDADES MILITARES CUBANAS),

ELC (COMANDOS LIBRES DE CUBA) AND A SECTION OF MRR CONSIDER. THAT ONLY

A

GENERAL

INVASION WILL OVERTHROW THE CUBAN REGIME.

(E) FUR (FRENTE UNIDO REVOLUCIONARIO), LED BY AURELIANO

SANCHEZ ARANGO, IS WORKING PRIMARILY TO OBTAIN AGREEMENT/LATIN

AMERICÂN GOVTS FOR COORDINATED POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC PRESSURE ON

SELELD DISSEM: STATE, CINCLANT

CINCSO.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

