# 176-10036-10093

## Page 1

176-10036-10093|

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10093

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Views of Ngo Dihn Nhu.

DATE: 4/2/1963

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION.:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 4/63-5/63. Box 2

---

## Page 2

EXEMPT NUK-E1:314

TELEGRAM INFURMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

el the Espionage Lams, Title 18, U.S.C

S*ca

... CLASS HGATION * DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-T -I-D-E-N-T-I-A-7

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY:

SUBJECT.

SOUTH VIETNAM

VIEWS OF NGO DINE NEU ON THE MANSIELD.

REPORT, AND ON AMERICAN AID

PRESENCE IN SOUTH VIETNAM

DATE OF

LATE MARCH 1963

-REPORT NO. TDCS: -3/542,408

DATE DISTR.

2 APRIL 1963

C478 013

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

771411.

REFERENCES

IN

INFO.

PLACE &

VIEINAM, SAIGON (27 MARCH 1963)

DATE ACO. •

APPRAISAL

SEE BELOW

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-8719

*THIS IS: UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE:! ÄPPRAISAL OF CONTENT, IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

APPRo

SAID THAT HE DISAGREED WITH THE

POSITIONS APPARENTZY TAKEN BY SENATOR MANSFIELD AND GENERAL CLAY WHICH SEEMED

TO HLM TO IMPLX THE DESTRABILITY OF WITEDRAWAT F AMERICAN AID AND PRESENCE

FROM CERTAIN COUNTRIES AND CONCENTRATION ON OTHER COUNTRIES. HE THOUGET THAT

THE, WITHDRAWAL OF AMERICAN AID AND PRESENCE FROM ANX, COUNTRY IN WHICH THE

COMMUNIST PRESENCE AND ACTIVITIES CONSTITUTED A DANGER WOULD CREATE A VACUUM

WEECH THE COMNUNISTS WOULD FILI. HE EMPHASTZED SEVERAL TIMES THE DANGER OF

COMPLETE WITEDRAWAL.

AT THE SAME TIME,

::afar:

LESSENING THE BURDEN OF

STATED THAT HE RECOGNIZES THE NEED FOR

3X2:6G

BY ACHIEVING A BETTER QUALITATIVE DISTRIBUTION AND

CLASSIFICATION = PISSEMINATION CONTROLS.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

DIA JARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR: ICS SECOES NSA-

-#IC...._A.10

US. LA.

OCL

ONG

GROUP I

Encluded from

EPARE ALAN

daungreding and

dextosafeaton

STATE! INR

SATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION RERORT

EXO

TELEGRAM

FORM

5-02"

1Kb OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(15-20)

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFICATION- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-0-N-F-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-I

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS -3/542,408

IN

PAGE TWO

EFFECT OF AID WITHIN ANY GIVEN COUNTRY.

HE SAID THAI FOR THE PAST. TWO OR

THREE MONTHS, HE HAD COMMENTED ON PRESIDENT DIEM'S AND HIS OWN RECOGNITION

THAT SOUTH VIEINAM MUST ACHIEVE BETTER QUALITATIVE UTILIZATION OF AMERICAN

AID, HE REITERATED HIS CONCEPT OF SELF-SUFFICIENCY, HIS THEME THAT AN

UNDERDEVELOPED COUNTRY SHOULD NOT BECOME ACCUSTOMED TO LIVING AT TOO

ARTIFICIALLY HIGH A STANDARD BASED ON FOREIGN AID, AND HE EXPRESSED THE

BELIEF THAT SOUTH VIETNAM IS MOVING TOWARD A BETTER. "STRUCTURED" UTILIZATION

OF. AID AND IS CONCENTRATING IT AT THE GRASS ROOTS AMONG THE PEASANTRY.

HE

COMMENTED THAT URBAN INDUSTRIALIZATION AND OTHER FORMS OF URBAN DEVELOPMENT

DID NOT MEET THE NEEDS OF THE MASS OF PEOPLE AND PROVED TOO SLOW IN ACHLEVING

AN IMPACT. HE REMARKED THAT HE CONTINUES TO SEARCH FOR WAYS TO DIMINISH THE

LEVEL OF FOREIGN AID REQUIRED IN SOUTH VIETNAM AND BELIEVES ALSO THAT WAYS

SHOULD BE FOUND TO DIMINISH THE NUMBERS OF AMERICANS DEPLOYED THERE. HOWEVER,

NHỤ DID NOT IMPLY THAT ESSENTIAL AID OR ESSENTIAL AMERICAN PRESENCE SHOULD IN

ANY WAY BE DISCARDED

3.

SAID THAT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AND CONGRESS TEND TO LOOK UPON

THE PROBLEM OF UNDERDEVELOPED COUNTRIES AS AN ISOLATED PROBLEM ACCENTUATED

CRITICALLY BY THE COMMUNIST THREAI, AND IO CONSIDER. ADD AND AMERICAN PRESENCE

MORE AS MEASURES IN THENSELVES BY WHICH TO MEET THESE CRISES. ON THE OTHER

HAND,

TO

AND DIEM SEE AMERICAN AID AND PRESENCE IN SOUTH VIETNAM, ACCORDING

GIVEN THE LARGE SCOPE OF THE PHENOMENA, AS A RAMIFYING "MEETING OF

... CLASSIFICATION- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFICATION- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

IN

TDCS - 3/542,408

PAGE THREE

CIVILIZATIONS."

SAID THAT DIEM HAD USED THIS EXPRESSION RECENTLY IN AN

INTERVIEW WITH AMERICAN REPORTERS TO MEAN THE MEETING OF WESTERN (AMERICAN)

CIVILIZATION WITH SOUTH VIETNAMESE CIVILIZATION.

REMARKED THAT THIS WAS

A FERMENTING PROCESS AND COULD HAVE "EXPLOSIVE" CONSEQUENCES FOR SOUTH VIETNAM.

] COMMENTED THAT THESE CONSEQUENCES OF THE "MEETING OF CIVILIZATIONS" WERE

INHERENT IN OTHER COUNTRIES WHERE FOREIGN AID AND PERSONNEL WERE PRESENT TO

A LARGE DEGREE. IN THIS CONNECTION,

SAID THAT COLONIALISM IN ITSELE HAD

NOT BEEN ALL BAD. REFERRING TO VIETNAM'S EXPERTENCE WITH THE FRENCH,

SAID

THAT THE WORST ASPECIS OF COLONIALISM HAD COME AT THE LOWER RANKS OR AT THE

BOTTOM OF THE FRENCH COLONIAL STRUCTURE AND THAT THEY HAD RESULTED FROM THE

ACTIVITIES OF FRENCH "ADVENTURERS," COMMERCIAL REPRESENTATIVES, AND LOWER

FUNCTIONARIES. HE: ADDED THAT THESE KINDS OF REPRESENTATIVES WERE PRESENT ALSO

AMONG THE AMERICANS CURRENTLY IN SOUTH VIETNAM, WHILE, AT THE UPPER ECHELON OF

AMERICAN PRESENCE, THERE. WERE MANY REPRESENTATIVES WHOSE ROLE WAS CONSTRUCTIVE

AND HELPFUL TO SOUTH VIETNAM.

4.

CONTINUED BY EMPHASIZING THAT HE IS NOT ANTI-AMERICAN AND THAT

HE HOPED THAT HIS COMMENTS WOULD NOT BE MISCONSTRUED IN THAT SENSE. HE SAID

THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM HAS ATTEMPTED TO PROVIDE ITS PEOPLE WITH A

CLEAR NATIONAL DOCTRINE AND THAT HE FELT THAT THE GOVERNMENT. HAD MADE CONSIDERABLE

PROGRESS IN ACHIEVING THIS GOAL. HE COMMENTED THAT IN HIS OPINION, THIS WAS NOT

THE CASE TWO OR THREE YEARS AGO, BUT HAS BECOME TRUE GRADUALLY DURING THE

CLASSIFICATION- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 5

CLASSIFICATION- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-I-IA-I

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS - 3/542,408

IN

PAGE FOUR

DEVELOPMENT OF THE CURRENT WAR, AND ESPECIALLY THROUGH THE ESTABLISEMENT AND

PROGRESS OF THE STRATEGIC HAMLET PROGRAM.

• ". . :

5. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG AID USIA

2ND AIR DIVISION 9TH FIELD STATION CINCPAC ARPAC PACFIT PACAF.

ENI

D OF

MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

