# 176-10036-10060

## Page 1

176-10036-10060

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10060

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Soviet Plans for Advertising US Invasion of Cuba

DATE : 2/3/1963

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 52: Cuba Subjects Intelligence TDCS-CSDB,

6/62-6/63, folder 3 of 3. Box 1

---

## Page 2

BY 94

SANITILEO MEL: 0L• 052•4•4:7

Cili

UTF. 137

SECRET

PAGE

CIA INFORMATION REPORT

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COUNTRY

CUBA/USSR/US/UNITED NATIONS

SUBJECT

SOVIET PLANS FOR AVERTING U.S: INVASION OF CUBA

DO I

PADA

APPR

SOURCE

SECRET

3 FEBRUARY 1963

SMITE BUNDY NEW YORK, 3 FEBRUARY 1963

FILE

BELK

BURRIS:

3

DAVIS

DUNGAN

MIDDLE EASTERN OFFICIAL /B/ WITH CLOSE CONTACTS

FELDMAN

2 FORRESTAL

- HIRSCH:

2JOHNSON

-KAYSEN

_KILDUFF

KLEIN

_ KOMER

LLEGERD

AMONG ARAB UN DELEGATIONS, FROM A REPRESENTATIVE:

/B! OF A MIDDLE EASTERN UN MISSION WHO TALKED TO

KONSTANT IN SMIRNOV, DEPUTY DIRECTOR, OFFICE OF

PUBLIC INFORMATION, UN. SECRETARIAT.

UTF-1374.

-SAUNDERS

SCHLESINGER

1. KONSTANTIN SMIRNOV, DEPUTY DIRECTOR, OFFICE OF PUBLIC INFORMATI

OF THE UNITED NATIONS SECRETARIAT, STATED THAT HE EXPECTS A U.S:

INVASION OF CUBA THROUGH AN UNNAMED LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRYS

REFERRING

TO THE 1956 SOVIET THREAT TO ENGLAND AND FRANCE WHICH HE CLAIMED

STOPPED THE WAR IN SUEZ, SMIRNOV STATED THAT THE SAME TACTIC CAN BE USEE

IN THE CASE OF CUBA. IN OTHER WORDS, THE USSR CAN THREATEN THE LATIN

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO. DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND US

FILEMANDS

AD/NE (MATTHIAS) E

SECRET,

AD/CI

.DD/1

GROUP

BEC BER ELY OUT MATIC

49061

DocId: 32629

797

---

## Page 3

1374

SECRET

UTF

PAGE

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKEROUND USE ONLY

AMERICAN COUNTRY FROM WHICH AN INVASION OF CUBA WILL BE LAUNCHED AND

THEREBY SCARE. OFF THE U•S.

WHEN TOLD THAT ONLY THE USSR COULD DEFEND CUBA AND ASKED IF THI

USSR WERE WILLING TO DO SO SMIRNOV REPLIED, "AND RUSH A NUCLEAR

WAR. "/QUERY/."

HE THEN SAID THAT THE IMPORTANT THING IS TO

DISCOURAGE AGGRESSION AND TO FORCE THE UNITED STATES TO RESPECT ITS

ASSURANCES NOT TO INVADE CUBA. HE ADDED THAT HE BELIEVES THAT CUBA CAN

BE DEFENDED, SIMPLY THROUGH CONTINUALLY PRESSURING THE U.S. BY THREATEN

ING LATIN: AMERICA.

CASTRO AND HIS GROUP ARE YOUNG, INEXPERIENCED PEOPLE AND SIMPLY

WANT TO DIE OR START TROUBLES TO BECOME HEROS. SMIRNOV FEELS THAT

THEY MUST LEARN THAT THEIR MISSION IS TO SURVIVE UNTIL THE TIME COMES

WHEN THEY HAVE STRONG SUPPORT IN LATIN AMERICA AND ELSEWHERE•:

4. HE SAID THAT THE USSR IS CONTEMPLATING A MAJOR OFFENSIVE

SOMEWHERE TO WIPE OUT THE EFFECT OF CUBA•. HE RULED OUT BERLIN AS

TOO DANGEROUS, BUT SAID THAT THIS OFFENSIVE COULD OCCUR IN VIETNAM.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

SE

I AO0ET

Then fab

---

## Page 4

42

SEGIE

UTF

PAGE

NO FÖREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE : ONLY

1.374

HE ALSO SAID THAT THE CHINESE DO NOT UNDERSTAND THAT THE RUSSIANS

"HAVE TO TAKE IT: EASY AND NOT RUSH INTO SITUATIONS." THE

RUSSIANS, HE SAID, CANNOT AFFORD TO MAKE MISTAKES IN THIS NUCLEAR

ERA®

FIELD DISSEM

UTF- 1374

U•So MISSION

6 FEBRUARY 1963

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGRUND USE ONLY

SE

---

