# 176-10036-10193

## Page 1

176-10036-10193

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10193

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR :

FROM :

TO :

DATE :

PAGES : 2•

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

TITLE : Vo Van Hai's Views of the Cohesiveness

COMMENTS : National Security Files, (Unprocessed), Vietnam: File #4, FRC #452.

Box 1

---

## Page 2

7250

REDOE! CLASS

CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SOUTE VIENGAL

SUBNECT

VO VAN HAI'S VIEWS ON THE COHESIVENESS OF THE NGO TAMILY

SAUGUST' • JG SEPTEMBER 1963

PAPA: VEGINAM, SAIGON (1O SEPTEMBER 1963)

IN VIGH OF HAI'S EXCELLENT ACCESS TO THIS INFORMATION HIS

ESTIMATE OF PRESIDENT DIEN AND HIS VIEWS OF THE NGD FAMILY

ARE PROBABLY ACCURATE.

TVs 0692

SOURCE

AN AMERICAN OBSERVER (B); FROM VO LANG.

BOTWEEN BARLY AUGUST AND TIS MISDER Of SEPIENBER

1963, VO LANG, NORMALLY RESIDUNT IN PARIS WHERE FE IS IM PRIVATE

BUSINESS, VISITED SAIGON AND BAD EXTINSIVE TALKS WITH HIS BROTHER,

TO VAN FAX, SECRETARY OF PRESIDENT DIER'S PRIVATE CABINET. HAI TOLD

LANG DEAT:

A. THE NGO FAVILY IS A HIGILY CORESIVE UNIT AND PRESIDENT DIEN

IS PARTICUIA REX CONSCIOUS OF FAMILY CONSIDERATIONS.

B. DICH APPROVES CE NGD DINK NAU'S ACTIVITICS; SPECIFICALLY;

NUD SUGGESTED TO DIEN AND ISE LATTER APPROVED THE ATTACK ON THE

BURTAISE PAGODAS ON 21 AUGUST'.

C.:

DIEM IS NOX ISOLATED AND IS AWARE OF NGO FAMILI ACTUALS -

D., DIEM WILL NEVER SUCCUMB FO INITED STATES PEASSURE SO D158238

MAD AND. MADAME NEU

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

DEZCASPETTER / WINSBERG

CARs WT?

Excluded

fron

downgradine

and

declacgification

SHORDICE!

---

## Page 3

- 2.1.

TVS- 9692

HAL ALSO STATED THAT NIU BELIEVES THAT SOUPE VEITNAM CAN OPERATE

WITHOUT U.S. AID AND THAT THE YOUKE OF SOUTH VIETNAM SUPPORT HIM.

ON 16 SEPTENSEE 1903 VO LING PROVIDED THE FOLLONING INFORMATION

ON TO VAN HAT'S VEEMS ON THE NGO CAMILY:

THE NGO FAMIIN IS A UNIY WITH PRESIDENT DIEW STILL IN

CHARGE:

DEEM IS PARYICULARLY CONSCIOUS OF FAMILY CONSTDEZATIONS

AND PROXICTS FAMILY MENBENS ERON OUTSIDE INCERTERENCE AND CRITICISH.

FAMILY HEMEERS DECISE IN DURIOOK ANC MAKE DIFFERENT PUCOMMINDAGRONS

CONCENING A FUTIRE COURSE OT ACPION. DIM,

HOWEVER, iS AWARE

OF BIG THAT NGO DINE NHU, MADAME NAU, NGO RINK CAN, AND NED DING

VAUG DO. NEITHER DIEN NOR IEU BELIEVES THAT CAN HAS HUCH ABILITE?

SPECIALLY IN TRYING CIRCUMSTANCES, EUT THEY PUBLICLY SUPPORT CAN.

F.. THE RUMOR. THAT DIEM IS ISOLATED AND RECEIVES NO REPORCS IS

FALSE.

DUSH KNOWS ABOUT AND APPROVES OF NAU'S PLANS AND ACTIVITY.

ALU PROPOSED AND DIEM AGRITO TO THE ATTACK ON TEE BUODHIST PAGODAS

ON ZA AUGUSE TEX VIETNAISE GENERALS INVOLVED IN THE PEOCLAMATION

AND INPICHENSATION OF MARTIAL LAW DID NOT KNOW IN ADVANCE OF TIL;

HARGE MEASURES TO ES TAKEN AGAINST XA LOI PAGODA IN SAIGON. (SOURCE

COMMENT, HAI AEMITTED, ROWEVER, THAS HE HAD LISTLE PERSONAL CONTAST

WIFE DUE GENERALS AND WAS NOT SURE CHACTLY HOW MUCH THEY INEV.

IN HAI'S CPINION DIEM WILL NEVER SUCCUMB TO U.S. PRESSURE

F.

SO DISMISS: NAU AND MADAEL NEU.

• П.

DIEM PERSONALLY EEPRIMANDED HAI FOR. DARING TO CRI2Z0I8S

MADAM MAUS PUBLIC STATEMENTS, MADAME NEU IS AVARE ON FAI'S

TEELINGS AND DONG NOT CONCAL HCE DESLIKE DE EIM. NEU. ALSO DIGERASE

MAI BUT INEX MANAGR IC WORK TOGETUSK IN TEC PRESIDENCY.

B. NU BELIOVES RHAT SOUCH VIETNAM CAN OPERATE WARMONY DOE

TO? & CONSIDERADLE PURIOD OF TIME, NUU ALSO BOGIEVES CUAS TUG SOOE

PARCICULAILY IN TEL RURAL AREAS, SUPPORT HIM AND THAN TOR RECENT CAN

TOOLS MOVERANT IS A TRONG WEAPON, HAL DISAGRERS WITE NIU ON ART

---

