# 176-10036-10089

## Page 1

176-10036-10089

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10089

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

• TO :

TITLE : Comments of President Diem on the Situation

> DATE : 11/20/1962

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 11/62. Box 2

---

## Page 2

1. 8-10

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

contains information

the National Delenso of the

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCE TET -AN

the. Espionage Lams, Title 18, U.S.C Sees

tho transmission or revelation

an unauthorited

person is prohibited

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY

SOUTH VIETNAM/SOUTHEAST ASIA /CHINA

SUBJECT

COMMENTS OF PRESIDENT DIEM ON THE

SITUATION IN SOUIHEAST ASIA

REPORT NO. TDCS - 3/528,822₴

DATE DISTR.

20 NOVEMBER 1962]

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF

14 NOVEMBER 1962

REFERENCES

IN

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

VIETNAM, SAIGON (14 NOVEMBER 1962)

SEE BELOW

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-8190

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

APPR.

1. PRESIDENT NGO DINH DIEM STATED ON 14 NOVEMBER 1962 THAT THE FRENCH WERE

ATTEMPTING TO MAINTAIN THEIR CONIROL IN SOUTHEAST ASIA BY THE NEUTRALIZATION OF

THE AREA AND BY THE DIMINUTION OR EJECTION OF SIGNIFICANT AMERICAN PRESENCE. DIEM

STATED THAT SUCH IS HAPPENING IN LAOS AND WHAT IS UNDER WAY IN CAMBODIA, WITH THE

POSSIBLE FORCED WITHDRAWAL OF THE UNITED STATES MILITARY ASSISTANCE AND ADVISORY

GROUP THERE. THE UNTIED STATES WILL DISCOVER THAT THE FRENCH ARE INCAPABLE OF

DISCHARGING THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES EITHER IN LAOS OR IN CAMBODIA. FRENCH JURISIS

ARE DRAWING UP THE NEUIRALIZATION PROPOSAL IN PHNOM PENH, DIEM REMARKED.

2. DIEM CLAIMED THAT THE SITUATION IN LAOS WILL FALI TO PIECES, BECAUSE

THERE IS NO BASIC STRUCTURE ON WHICH TO WORK. HE FELT THAT IT IS AN ABSURD ATTEMPT

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

• C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CHOUP 1

Encluded tom puromorr

downgrading and

declosufagion

STATE/ INR

DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

JES SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE

OCR ORR

001

00

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM

1Kb:

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(35-20)

---

## Page 3

10

CLASSIFICATION- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS •

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-L.

• NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS - 3/528,822

IN

PAGE TWO

TO IMPOSE. IN LAOS A DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM CHARACTERISTIC OF THE OLD AND ESTABLISHED

COUNTRIES OF WESTERN EUROPE, AND EVEN MORE CHARACTERISIIC OF THOSE COUNTRIES AT

THE END

OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. ALL OF THE LAO ARMED FORCES: ARE NOT

COMPESTELY LACKING IN FIGHTING SPIRIT, DIEM STATED, BUT CHANGING AMERICAN

POLICIES IN LAOS HAVE TENDED TO DEMORALIZE THE LAO FORCES AND DESTROY THEIR

SPIRIT. DIEM SAID THAT THAILAND STILL HAS SEVERAL COURSES OF POSSIBLE ACIION

CONCARNING LAOS, FOR INSTANCE, THAILAND COULD DENY RICE SUPPLIES AND CUT OFF

ACCESS FOR OTHER IMPORTS INTO LAOS.

THAILAND SHOULD HAVE INVADED LAOS AT THE

BEGINNING OF THE SOVIET AIRLIFT, AND SHOULD HAVE WITHDRAWN STEP. BY STEP IN

ACCORDANCE WITH THE WITHDRAWAL OF THE TROOPS FROM NORTH VIETNAM. COMMUNIST

CHINA MAY HAVE STARTED THE LAO VENTURE IN ORDER IO CONSOLIDATE PHONG SALY, SAM

NEUA, AND NORTHERN LAOS IN CENERAL, AS A PROTECIION FOR YUNNAN PROVINCE, WHICH

DIEM DESCRISED AS ONE.OF THE MOST VULNERABLE AREAS ON MAINLAND CHINA.

DIEM.

BELIEVED THE CHINESE NATIONALISIS SHOULD DIRECT PROBING ACTIONS INTO SÜCH AREAS

AS YUNNAN, INSTEAD OF CONDUCTING THEM FRONTALLY AGAINSI THE COASTAL AREAS.

3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG AID USIA 9TH

FIELD STATION 2ND AIR DIVISION CINCPAC ARPAC PACILT PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CLONFIDENIIAL

NO. FOREIGN DISSEM

---

