# 176-10036-10094

## Page 1

176-10036-10094

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

-

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10094.

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Ngo Dinh Nhu's Statement on Withdrawal of

DATE : 4/20/1963

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 4/63-5/63. Box 2

---

## Page 2

TELEGRAM

Заnd

INFURMATION REPORT

TELEGR

793 and

COUNTRY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

to transmission ation

National Delense

of the United Stales withi

of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs.

transmission or revelation

of which in any manner to an unauthoried

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled In)

CLASSIFIÇATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/544,531

SUBJECT

NGO DINH NHU'S STATEMENTS ON WITHDRAWAL

OF AMERICAN AID

DATE DISTR. 20 APRIL 1963

PRECEDENCE

PRIORITY

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

LATE MARCH-EARLY APRIL 1963.

REFERENCES

IN. 21858

VIETNAM,

SAIGON

(1 AND 12 APRIL 1963)

SEE PARAGRAPH 7

FIELD REPORT NO.

FVs 8804

THIS IS. UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE

1. AT THE 5 APRIL MEETING OF THE INTERMINISTERIAL COMMITTEE

ON STRATEGIC HAMLETS, NGO DINH NHU MADE THE FOLLOWING REMARKS CON-

CERNING AMERICAN FOREIGN AID:

A. THE AMERICANS HAVE STATED THAT THEY ARE GOING TO REVISE

THEIR POLICY ON FOREIGN AID TO SOUTH VIETNAM; WE WILL REVISE OUR

POLICY ON RECEIVING SUCH AID. WE MUST MARCH TOWARD THE ÜLTIMATE

OBJECTIVE OF TERMINATING AMERICAN AID AND THE PEOPLE SHOULD LEARN

TO DO WITHOUT SUCH ASSISTANCE.

B. AMERICAN AID SHOULD BE PLACED IN THE FOLLOWING CATE-

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

GROUP I

CONFIDENTIAL

Encluded from automat

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

downgioding and

declassfication

STATE/ INR

DIA ARMY/ACS: NAVY

AIR JES SECDEF NSA

NIC

.. AID USIA OCI ONE OCR

ORR

081

.00

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

FORM 1KQ OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(15-20)

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFICATION- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCS -3/544,531

IN 21850

PAGE

GORIES OF PRIORITY. FIRST, AID WHICH WE MUST CONTINUE TO RECEIVE

INDEFINITELY, SPECIFICALLY THE MEANS OF PRODUCTION; WE WILL NOT SEEK

A REDUCTION IN THIS CATEGORY, NOR WILL WE REQUEST AN INCREASE. SECOND

AID WHICH CAN BE EVENTUALLY PHASED OUT. THIRD, AID WHICH CAN BE

TEMINATED IMMEDIATELY.

C. ALL SHOULD BE INSTRUCTED ON THE ABOVE LIST OF

PRIORITIES BUT IT SHOULD ALSO BE MADE CLEAR THAT THIS. POLICY IS NOT

INTENDED TO BE ANTIFOREIGN. FOREIGN AID WILL PROVIDE WITH THE MEANS

OF PRODUCTION SO THAT WE CAN EVENTUALLY DO WITHOUT CONSUMER GOODS

ASSISTANCE. WHETHER WE LIKE IT OR NOT, FOREIGN AID WILL CEASE

SOONER OR LATER, AND SO WE MUST STRIVE TO BECOME SELF-SUFFICIENT.

MEANWHILE WE MUST MAKE PROPER USE OF THE AID WE RECEIVE.

2.. DURING THE LAST WEEK OF MARCH 1963 THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR ON

ORDERS FROM NHU, ISSUED TO ALL PROVINCE CHIEFS INSTRUCTIONS TO

ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO START. PRODUCING WEAPONS, LAND MINES AND AMMUNITION

IN HOME WORK SHOPS WITH THE: AIM OF ATTAINING A DEGREE OF SELF-SUFFICIENCY.

3. ON ABOUT 5 APRIL PHAM DUC TIEN, CHIEF OF CIVIC ACTION IN PHUOC

TUY PROVINCE, ATTENDED A CONFERENCE ON STRATEGIC HAMLETS IN BINH TUY

PROVINCE AT WHICH NGO DINH HU SAID THAT THERE WERE TOO MANY AMERICAN

ADVISORS IN SOUTH VIETNAM AND THAT BOTH THE NUMBER OF THESE ADVISORS

AND THE AMOUNT OF AMERICAN AID SHOULD BE REDUCED.

4. AT A MEETING OF VIETNAMESE AIR FORCE (VNAF) OFFICERS ON 1D.

CLASSIFICATION- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 4

GONFIRENIAL

CLASSIFICATION- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

Да 10066

IN

21850

TDCS -3/544,531

PAGE 3

APRIL 1963, VNAF COMMANDER COLONEL HUYNH HUU HIEN SAID THAT NHU HAD

INSTRUCTED HIGH-RANKING GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM (GVN) OFFICIALS AT A 5

APRIL MEETING TO PREPARE FOR A COMPLETE WITHDRAWAL OF AMERICAN AID;

NHU SAID THAT THE UNITED STATES WAS USING AID AS A MEANS OF PRESSURING

THE GVN AND WAS IMPINGING ON GUN SOVEREIGNTY. AS AN EXAMPLE OF THE

USE OF AMERICAN AID TO PRESSURE A RECIPIENT COUNTRY, HIEN CITED THE

CUTOFF OF DELIVERIES OF GASOLINE TO THE ROYAL THAI AIR FORCE WHEN THE

THAI GOVERNMENT REFUSED TO AGREE TO SOME (UNSPECIFIED) POINT;

HIEN SAID THAT THE DELIVERY OF GASOLINE RECOMMENCED ONLY AFTER STRONG

THAI GOVERNMENT PROTESTATIONS. (FIELD COHMENT. PRESUMABLY HIEN

REFERS TO THE REDUCTION AND EVENTUAL TERMINATION BY THE END OF

FISCAL YEAR 1965 OF U.S. SUPPORT OF MILITARY AID PROGRAM POL AND

MEDICAL SUPPLIES TO THE THAI GOVERNMENT:)

5. AFTER THE MEETING SEVERAL VNAF OFFICERS, INCLUDING MAJOR DANG

DINH LINH, DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF FOR MATERIAL, MAJOR TRAN DO CUNG,

ASSISTANT. TO THE CHIEF OF STAFF, AND CAPTAIN HA DUONG DOAN, DEPUTY CHIEF

. OF STAFF FOR BUDGET AND FINANCE, AGREED THAT THE VNAF WOULD BE UNABLE

TO CONTINUE OPERATIONS WITHOUT AMERICAN SUPPORT AND THAT, IN. FACT,

ANY WITHDRAWAL OF AMERICAN

SUPPORT WOULD RESULT: IN COLLAPSE OF THE

REGIME.

6. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMAÇU MAAG USOM US.IS 9TH.

FIELD STA 2ND AIR DIV. CINCPAC PACAF ARPAC. PACFLT..

CONFI

HAL

CLASSIFICATION- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

MIKES

FURLION DASEM

---

## Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled I7)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN 05SEIM

TDCS - 3/544,531

IN 21850

PAGE 4

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

TVILNIOLINOS

---

