# 176-10037-10485

## Page 1

176-10037-10485

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10485

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR : WH

FROM : Fitzgerald

TO : Johnson

TITLE : Memo RE: Status report on CIA Programs, Vietnam

DATE : 11/28/1961

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS.: National Security Files, Box 195: Countries, Vietnam, General, Memos

& Reports, 11/17/61-11/31/61. Box 6.

---

## Page 2

400...

FLA SENS

Sanitized ix 95.31

14c4

EXEMPTED

121/75 N4K-75-75

6128182 NuK-81-206

28N0/ 1961

• MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

Mr. U. Alexts Johnson

Deputy Under Secretary of State

for Political Altafra

: Status Report on CIA Programs,

Vietnam

1. Attached herewith ts a comprehensive but concise

outline of the range of operations being undertaken by thie

Agency jointly with the Government of Vietnam against the

Viet Cong. You will note that we have out ined our program

at some length to provide & backdrop against which future

developments may be viewed.

8. I would point out that the "montagnerd" project

mentioned in paragraph L.a., the air operation under com-

mercial cover in paragraph l. c., and the Clandestine Action

Service itself are the three political and paramiiitary activi-

Hes being either newly initiated or aignificantly empanded as

part of the set of measures recommended by General Marwell

D. Taylor and approved by the Preaident. The sural

reconstruction operation mendoned in paragraph l.b. 1s of

the same character. It has been in progreas for some time

but will be stepped up.

9. The activitles listed in paragrapha 1. d., 1. e.. 1. t.

2., 8., and 4. are the ones principally affected by and

responsive to the newly emphasized priority on the Improvement

of internal intelligence in the country.

COPY NO. 3

191482 - A

TOP SEORET

---

## Page 3

TOP

COOP

4. Subject to further guidance from the Department, we

plan to adhere to the attached outline in subsequent pestodic

reports, showing substartive developments as appropriate.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS):

Sicked Dostond FidGerald

Desmond Fitsderald

Chief, Fer East Division

Attachment:

Blind memo re Covert

Actions in Vietnam

"91482-A

COPY NO. 3

1OP SECRET

---

