# 176-10036-10063

## Page 1

176-10036-10063]

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10063

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Provisional Agreement

DATE : 9/18/1963

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 58: Cuba Subjects Shipping 8/63-9/63. Box

1

---

## Page 2

NECRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELIIGENCE AGENCY

This material

Ti oma sla a finition or novelation

othere in any mannere

the

Uniled Stales

una thoried

CONEIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION: DISSEMINATION

CONTROL!

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TELEGRAM

COUNTRY

JAPAN

CUBA

• CHINA...

NORTH KOREA

NORTH

VIETNAM

SUBJECT

PROVISIONAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN CUBAN

REPRESENTATIVE AND JAPANESE SHIPPING FIRM

TO BEGIN REGULAR SHIPPING SERVICE TO CUBA

VIA ROUTE LINKING NORTH KOREA, COMMUNIST

DATE OF

CHINA AND NORTH VIETNAM

INFO.

AUGUST TO MID. SEPTEMBER 1963

PLACE &

DATE ACO. JAPAN, TOKYO (16. SEPTEMBER: 1963)

REPORT NO. TDCS - 3/559,427

DATE DISTR.

18 SEPTEMBER 1963

PRECEDENCE

• ROUTINE

• REFERENCES.

IN 22378

TOCS-3/555,764

SOURCE

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED. INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENT

A JAPANESE BUSINESSMAN 6) ASSOCIATED.WITH LEFTIST. BUSINESS CIRCLES,.FROM.SE/WA

SHIPPING.COMPANY OFFICIAL YONEKURA TSUTOMU. YONENURA IN NOVEMBER 1962 SUCCESSFULLY

NEGOTIATED AND SIGNED A. CONTRACT WITH NORTH KOREA. WHICH INITIATED REGULAR SHIPPING:|

SERVICE BETWEEN JAPAN AND NORTH KOREA BY SEIWA KAIUN SHIP.

APPRAISAL:

THE PROVISIONAL AGREEMENT PROBABLY.HAS BEEN SIGNED.

SUMMARY:

CUBAN AND JAPANESE: SHIPPING REPRESENTATIVES HAVE REACHED A

PROVISIONAL AGREEMENT TO OPEN A REGULAR SHIRPING SERVICE BETWEEN JAPAN

AND CUBA VIA NORTH KOREA, COMMUNIST CHINA AND NORTH. VIETNAM.. AFTER

THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT APPROVES THE AGREEMENT, THE JAPANESE REPRESENTATIVE

WILL DISCUSS THIS MATTER WITH NORTH KOREA, COMMUNIST CHINA AND

NORTH VIETNAM.

1• NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN BERNARDO C. REVUELTA, A CUBAN SHIPPING

OFFICIAL ASSIGNED TO THE CUBAN TRADE MISSIÓN: IN TOKYO, AND SEIWA

SHIPPING COMPANY (SEIWA KAIUN) OFFICIAL YONEKURA TSUTOMU HAVE

RESULTED

IN A PROVISIONAL AGREEMENT FOR REGULAR SHIPPING SERVICE

BETWEEN JAPAN AND CUBA BY SEIWA KAIUN SHIPS: VIA A: ROUTE LINKING

CLASSIFICATION - DISSI

CONFIDENTIAL

IN TOREIGN

STATE/ INA

DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY: AIR" JCS SECOEF INSA

NIC

AID

US IA

STATE/DIR

REPCINCLANT

DISSEM

ONE

OCA

COAST.

GUARD

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

GROUP I

Ereluded lion automati,

declossefeation

OHN

00

TREASURY

FBI

&NS:

TELEGRAM

ORM

10487,

11K

180-26

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filed In)

LASSIFIGATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISS

TDES -3/559,427

NORTH KOREA, COMMUNIST CHINA, AND NORTH VIETNAM:AS REGULAR STOPS

AND POSSIBLY INDONESIA AND CHILE AS STOPS ON CARGO-AVAILABLE BASIS

(SOURCE COMMÉNT• SEIWA KAIUN IS A SUBSIDIARY OF THE NISSHO

STEAMSHIP COMPANY (NISSHO KISEN). AT PRESENT SEIWA KAIUN HAS

ONLY TWO SHIPS, ONE OF WHICH IS IN REGULAR SERVICE TO NORTH KOREA.

NISSHO KISEN IS SCHEDULED: TO. SPLIT UP INTO "NISSHO KISEN" TO

HANDLE FOREIGN SHIPPING AND "NISSHO KAIUN" TO HANDLE DOMESTIC

SHIPPING. THE NEW NISSHO KISEN WILL IN TURN MERGE LATER THIS YEAR

WITH YAMASHITA KISEN AND SHIN NIPPON KISEN. TO FORM. A NEW SHIPPING

COMPANY.. SEIWA KAIUN WILL REMAIN AS A DUMMY FIRM TO HANDLÉ BLOC

SHIPPING FOR THE NEW SHIPPING COMPANY. • UNDER THE NEW SETUP,

SE IWA WILL HAVE MORE SHIPS AT ITS DISPOSAL.)

2. REVUELTA PREFERRED A DIRECT ROUTE BETWEEN JAPAN AND CUBA

• BUT. AGREED TO THE ROUNDABOUT ROUTE AS PROPOSED BY YONEKURA.

YONEKURA SAID THAT SINCE A DIRECT RUN WOULD NOT BE PROFITABLE: IN

VIEW OF THE PRESENT SMALL VOLUME OF EXPORTS TO CUBA, HE INSISTED

ON INCLUDING THE OTHER COUNTRIES MENTIONED IN THE ROUTE..

3. AFTER THE CUBAN GOVERN MENT APPROVES THE AGREEMENT,

YONEKURA PLANS TO VISIT NORTH KOREA, COMMUNIST CHINA, AND

NORTH VIETNAM TO DISCUSS THIS MATTER.

4.: FIELD DISSEM. CINCAC PACFLT PACAF ARPAC. STATE ARMATT:

NAVATT AIRATT USFU USARU COMNAVU 5AF 6499SG 50PICG D046/OSI CINCLANT

CINCSO •

END OF MESSAGE

: CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLI

PANFIDENTIAL

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

22370

2

---

