# 176-10033-10145

## Page 1

176-10033-10145

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10033-10145

RECORD SERIES : Church Committee

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : WH

FROM : Schlessinger, Jr.

TO : Kennedy, John F

TITLE : CIA Reorganization

DATE : 6/30/1961

PAGES : 15

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE : Paper, Textual

CLASSIFICATION : Declassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 2/14/2001

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

---

## Page 2

INITILED MUL: 11•261& 5/12

SECRETI

6

@iA.

June 30, 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRESIDENT

SUBJECT: GIA Reorganization

I submit the following viewe as one who worked in Oss during the

war and served as a pestadle ClA consultant ln the years eince.

On balance, ClA's record has probably been very good.

In the

nature of clandestine operatione, the trtumphe of an intelligence

agency are uninown; ad the public heare about (or should hear

about, are lts errora. But egain In the nature of the case. an

agemey dedicated to clandestine activity can afford damned few

visible errors.

The important thing to recogalce today, in my

judgmons, le that the CIA, ss at present named and constituted, hae

about uned up tea quote.

Its margin for future error te practically

non-existent

One more GIA debacle will chake faith conniderably

1o US palley st heme aa mall as abroad. And und GiA 10 Vialbly

reorganised. it will

I Do widely blared for

developments of which it is wholly innocent.

The argument of thie memorandum lo that CIA 0 trouble can be traced

to the autonomy with which the agency has been permitted to operates

and that thia autonomy de due to threo main causes: (1) in indomate

doctrine of clandestine oporation (2) an Inadequate conception of

the relationahip between operations and policy; (3) an inadequate

*Or chould be - a gross and repeated CIA falling had been ite

occasional readinode to succumb to the temptationt of favorable

publicity.

The Cuatemalan and Janian operatione were almost

millited by the hood al selficongratulatory puhlicity wütch toltowed

them fe. g, the artieles by Richard and Gladye Harkness.

"The

Mysterious Doinge of GIA." Baturday Evening Poet, Oet. 30, NN. 6.

19. 1950.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRETI

conception of the relasionship batreen operations and intolligence.

The memorandum aleo suggests maye in which tome of these preo.

lema can perhaps be alleviated.

CLA Aulonomy

CIA conducts lines main formas of secret works clandestine intelle

gence collection covert polttical operations and paramiltry

activitied. e castien on thone cunctione wis relatre au comy.

The reasono for tho satonomy are hutoricil

When CIA boges, the State Department, til thinking too much in

tormo di ito traditional entertons in foreign atatta, looked on thie

now venture with quiptaton and renunced the oppostuntty to arice

times control al CLA operations.

I did not, for dumple, try to

establich dny ellective oystem ef clearance for CRA ectivitlens and

come ambassadore frently preferred not to laow ihat GIA tao up to

In theis couerlee.: Ature 1953 the face Chas the Secretary of State and

the Director of Central Intelligence wese brochore furthes confirmed

(LA'e indepandence from euperutsion by State Depistment deil.

In the mentime, CLA grew in aice and parer.. During the futied it

begas in vome arena to ontatrio the state Department to ebe quality el

ite perionael. Fartly baciuse GlA pote higher andirtee and aven

more portage becauce Allen Millee gave his pecate coupegenue pro.

toction againat Mecerbylte assette. CIA un able to attract and hotd

a large sumber of able and independent minded men.

The more i

ented inlant activiate so to etaff, tho more mamontur ite araratione

coveloped, and the greater role it played ln the intelation of palley..

Ey the timo chas State had begun to to fuily stare of the prolene

created by as active and autonumoun CiA. l had tong aince miated

the chance to eutatitch fle ema ultimate authority. Whtle State re-

tained a nominal mperviston over covert polittcit operatione, tate tae

to some degrae oftset by ClA'a tentency to progent a proposed operaston

almon an eini accont, State never tad'titte to contral overt

clandentine intelligeace collections and t tadtoet ground in usch

arons as overt political neporting and even in the molntenance ell

cort diplomatis contacter

SECRET

---

## Page 4

6

SECRET

For ita part, CIA had developed a mole aerics of funettons paral

deling already existing functions of the State Department, and of

the Detence Depaitment as well.

Today it has lle own political

denke and military staffar it has in effect its own foreign serviee:

it Ban (or has bad) Its own combat forced, 16 even has lia own ats

force.

Its aanual budget te about _times that of the State Depart-

The contemporary CIA possesses many of the charactertatice

of a etate within a efate.

Il, Doctrine

Though CIA's autonomy developed for Matarteal readont. it has been

able to endure becanso there le no doctrine governing our denduct of

elandentine operation, The problem of docivine for CIA le the extent

to which de vanious clandestino misstone are compalible vito a free

and open sectety.

Il to llle to argue that. beccuse the Communiote can do such and rel

we are free to do ll too, Communiem le a creed nurtured in con

opiracy and tho whole point of communet nocin and politen orgas.

nation te to make conpissey affective. & fighting fire with fire' means

contracting the froedom traditienally enjoyed by Americane in order

to giro more freedom to ClA, no one serinaly male to do that.

I de not feel that we have erled etgoroudly to think through the loite

which the mainerence of an open enciety pinese on secret notivity.

Entti thio lo done. CIA e role will not to etenly defined on taller.

The problems which munt be faced ten whet sort of teeret

sclivity to contore with the premitten al o hee vocil order?.

We muet bogin. I boltov, by accepting the lict that the Unlad Staree

will contume to be e nation in which politiciano wiit tch quentiono and

minko ppeeches, reporters will dig on ported, neupapere will pul

Liah oditoriali, individuals, driven by promptinge of coniclence. i

blurt out tango harmful to the nute. dod do on We do not mish to

change these thinge and could not do so without violating the essence

Thene thinge moke up the framewor le which ClA

at our society in dent try conetine tos probless pes no

munt operete

General Marshall used to day. "There'e no point to fighting the

problem,"

SECRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

Thare follows from thie, i would think, the epnclusion that secret

sctivities ese nermistitle so long an they do not cozrupt the

psincipied and Practicos o. our dociety. and that they cease to be

pesmiesible when theft etract ta to cortunt thone ratnal les and

practices.

Each form of secret activity presente ite own problem, Clanteetine

intelligence collection has been a traditional functien of the natfoost

otate. As rules and usages are fairly well establiched. In the

male copionage. Il conducted with discretions abould present no

grest problem.

However, when conducted with an open checkbook

and a broad mandate, oven copionage con begta to puch againet tha

limits of sacrot dotivity la an opon societi.

I sonolder later, for

•esample, the question of the Controlled Americin Source (GAS) ant

whether the overdoing of GAS le not beginning to harm other activtttee

of the soverament.

Corest political opesattons predon a trickier problem.

@constams

artee when to do necerary to subatace newapepent pollatelans and

oganaations in other countries... Bus corruption of the political life

ol another natten le not e responethility to be lightly nasund

wonder whether CIA Dee not done too much of the for the joy of il

Paramilitary relivitice errale as even more dificult prottom, 1e

on y beconne the problem of conccalment are eo much more dictionle.

In generalla 1 mould sugreat that any seeses operatton whose eucceue te

dependtat on the suppreston of newt, en lying to Congresemen and

journaliete and on the deception of the afectorate anould be undentalien

only mos the erlete to eo conetdareble that the gaine really neem to

outwolgh the Ataadvantages Thie augrecto that the leg of the gro-

posed operation may be of erucial importinct

Small oratiato eur

Do done with a minimum of accompanying corruptiot. Tus greater

the veitisty of the operation, the more ten cuccess depende on

thurting the impalees end denying the valuee ot en open society.

she stekier it broomee, and the more ungens ln te lliat an everwbelming

case be made fon tre secenaity.

In short, shea confronted vita a preposed operation, te mut not only

son shotaos the operation te escanically fensible da lo ou former me

must dot whether ito duccene requires our open dociaty te be la any

certoue say falce to lie own principled.

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET'

III, Operations and Polley

Clandestine activities should bo annesued not enly in she context

of their relationahip to an open society bas aldo in the content of chola

relationship to United Statee foreign policy.

Cla operatione have not been held edectively subordinate to U. 3.

forelgn policy.

1. Glandentine latelligence collecston lo, by charter, free from

State Department control.

This face esposed American foreign poltey

so a multitude of embarrassmento when CIA is diecovered recruiting

• arento or develonion souraco in a friendly country.

clA has sald that, in such cases, neither the Embassy nor the Depar

ment in Wachington in normally imormed of thie type of operation.

In short, no one knowe how many potential problome for Us foreign

policy - and how much parential Arletion with Artendly piates * are

boing created at thte moment by CIA elandestine Intelligence operationa.

Surely there la an engument lor permitte State to acido chether the

advantage to be grined by the eperation

weighe the rich lege ersaperating the local goverament and shalting

Ite confitionce both in or inspoded and in out sendel: Clantestine

Intelligence operatione abould plainly be cleared both wich the Depart-

ment of State and (dave los enceptienal instances and es «greemont of

the Seeretary of State) with the local les; Ambasuados.

SECRET

ПС Т

---

## Page 7

SECRET

Department clearance

2 over poles on pratee, but tre sata been

able to seize the initlative in waye mich reduce State'a sale alimost

en that of a rubbes atamy.

This has been partly the consequence of the cupertor drive and

activiom of CiA parsonael, espocially se compared with the diffidence

of State Department pentanel. For exarple, when men come to cia

with the ossignment of devaloping covert politoal campaigne or

organining coupe of prepring for paramilliary wartare, these men

naturally fall to want with ingenulty and seal, thoy probably feel that

they are not esming thots pay leds, day, they organice as many

caipe so poseiale.

The cencept al 'contingency planning' hae

legitimatised the concrete preparation of operatione sull presumably

in a hypothotical stager people All not at firel netice that 'contingency

plenningi' when carried to the stage of recruitment and training of

personnel, dreatra o vorted talereet untob often tranatorme centire

genotes into apparent necsanitter..

Thua, ll a group do assembled

and rewed up in a contingency bants, then the fallure to casuy the

project through (it le argued) will isutte the disaypointment and

allenation of the groupt do the prescure increased to follew throug

on what had started as a pure speculation. Thie mao a central factor.

of corso, in the Cuban dacielon * the tet that Clabandment ef the

Cuban ferce in Guatemala just deemed to crente too many probleme ams

embarrasemente. Heving intesed into telafine with peracnalites fo

foreigulando, CIA has sometimes doomed to feel that to suet thereo

after do prely much what they want o ot tie they will blow ineurity

en even go over to the communtala.

Thie approach bae made un en

ocanalen the prisonero of on cun agento. a

awa become palsonere of our agente in another came toe.

The Gular

episodo leaven the atrong impresaten that ClA lo net ablo to control ita

dun tou-leval operatived: While the CIA people in Wachington are men

of exceptionally high quality, the men attructed to fiele jebe ate some.

Enco lough and even victona people motivated by duven of their eva

and not nocosert y in joltiel or eva more cynpaty wi the purposes

SECRET

---

## Page 8

SECRET

7.

Il has meant too that the State Department, often apprtued of an

operation only in ite later eleges, ts undes great pressure to

endorse the operation as alroady mounted beesuce of the alleged

evil consequenced of exereidog a vetc. & well remembes Toss

Man's remark the dey the decleton wes mido to go ahead en Gula:

"I would never have lavored initiating thie operations but, place se

• Rao gone as far as it has. I do not think we can flet calling de ol. **

Moreover, at a time when there is increasing premium on activem.

State, when it queation® CIA operationa or initiatived, cante toalf in

a psiday, clesy, negativo gole. The advocate of clandestine activitice

seema tough' and realistic: the opponent hao to lavoke euch latangibled

so the reputation of the United States, world pubtia opinion. "What

• do we day to the Untiad Nastone?", etc., and scema hopetedely

traliatic, dogaltatie end "eett. "

The resole el CIA's loittntive in covere polluces operations bad been

to cronto altonsion which have forced gottey en the State Depestdot.

Thie man sot the original tina bahind out

As Alter Dollee wrote

In tie 1947 memorandan to the Senato Aemed Besviced Committee,

"gho Central Intelligence Agency shoutd lave nothing to do with poliey."

Tet in the yoore cince, CL hao, in affect, "made policy in many

parts of the world.

A number of governmente attli to powes know

that thoy Dave aven bean targete of ela attempte at overthrow , 00

a sente of mind calculated to atimulate friendly tellage tovard the

United Sensed.

Tile empertense sugganta that the present ayotera by waten ClA norties

Sento of a projected covert eperation le inadequate so gretect US

totereste.

Theme tindt be tome moane by witen fate cho Be informed

at suel oporationo at an entiy enough stago to cfect the equeention

and preliminary plaming of the operation.

@thornips Cia mill cer-

Elms to confront state vich propositione baving notontial lipact on

forsign policy but es too lato a polal to aubtect that trpace to randone

atte controle

The Centrello% Amertess Source ICAG) represente e partientar

spect al CLAs endreaghment on poltey-making fandtionde

SECRET

19061 DocId: 32629331

Paro A

---

## Page 9

SECRET

8.

SECRET

---

## Page 10

SECRET

... 0. +.

............. ... ' ..........................

%

@ Paramilitesy varfare. I gather, le roganded ln some quartere

as a purely tochnichl matter, sasily detacbable from policy and there,

foro a proper function of the bepartment of Defende. Yet there te

almost no Chs funition more peculiarly dependent on the political

contant than paramilitary varfare.

There are neveral readone for thie. for one thing, a paramtlitary

opesation to la ite naturo e large anê attributable operation and thereby.

de suggested above, clashes with the presuppoeltione of car opes

society: (Thoee constentions need nor apply, however, to the

training of, day, the South Vietnamese la guourilla telice on to tho

support el already ensting guerrille actlettled. For another, tha

moral nnd political price ol direel paramlary Sallure is acure foe

Communiete: when lacy alimulate paramittiny setivity, are

doing what the world espects from them, when we do ll. we appear

to betray our ou profeusad principles and therefore cannot allord to

corround delinener by defento.

And.

an the recent tractese-lot prisonere episode showed. when we do dood

men to ponathle death, me cannot lightly unite them olf and close the

The Communiets, on the other handle have no ceruplen about

#gutdating a lesing thor,

SECRET

---

## Page 11

SECRET

10.

Moreover, guerrille warfare te fought, much more than milltary

men ordinarily realise, in an ideological context. The guerrilla

succeede when his prograr enliata graderoote support; and it te

very difftcult indeed to beat him when the countryilde to with him.

Van Nook told General Marshall in 1940 not to worry about the

guerrillae in Indonasia; "we are sending 50, 000 men out there

and will clean the situation up in the three montha." Marshall,

who had had expertence fighting guerrillad in the Philippines.

replied, "It won't be ed eaty.

You will find that they will bleed

you to death. " Cyprue and Algeria illustrate the dificuity of over

coming guerrilla reatitance through cheer weight of milltary force.

Sertoue guersille movemente have been desented only three fimee since

the end of the Second World War: ln Greece, because Tito'e defection

closed the northern border, in the Philippines; and in Malaye,

In

• the last two cades the guerrilla restatance ended because of the

the minde and beasts ol the people: lt therefore inveved not enky

paramilitary operationo but a vact educational program. orgasmation

el srade unione, politicil relov and an offor of national independence.

I the gueretles power lied in ble revoluttenary program. the enewer

Iles ln past to meting the acede whiel enable the guerrilla to rouse

the countryaide.

"Without a political goal, " wrote Meo Tea-tung,

"guerrille varfare must fall, ao ll must ll ice political abjectives do

not coincide with the aspiratione of the people and it their sympathy,

cooperation and asstatasce canno? be gatred, " He ndded, "Do we

want the cuipore of the meeses?. E ve do, we munt go among the

massed; arouse them to cotivity concorn outaelves with thel weal

and woe. "

sor these readons, saramlitary warfare cannot be considered ae

primarily a military weapon.

I do primarily & potitical moapon und

muot therefore be dubteited to close and carstal political overtighte

It probably ahould be retained in s recontitated Cla rather than

trongfereed to Defendes

SECRET

---

## Page 12

SECRET......

All there doviced migh Bo adapted for une by the State Depsements

Organisationalis the would mein tat the intelligence agonsy would

retain operational nutonguay but that ta operatione would te at all

•polnte subjece to fleto Sepantment clearanco « è Clearance to be

SECRET

---

## Page 13

SECRET.

12.

enforced by diractives, by State Department chairmanship of

working groupe, and by the infleration a State Department

persomel into the intelligence agency.

Obvionely this est-up would not succeed, however. unteca the

State Depestment lisett were prepared to overcome tte inbred

habite of diffunion, negativier and delay and to take a firm and

purposes gety on the eituation.

VV. Opesations and Intelligence

The relationehip between sparations and intelligence salace particu

lasly perpleting questiont, «Tatelligence! includee two seperable

schivleted: ciandeetine colluctions and roncarch, analyate and

evaluation. The firet decle with that omall portion of raw intelll-

gance procured by secret meane (is. Dollies ditimated in 1947 that

"a proper analysto of the intelligence obtalnable by. • overt.

normal. and aboveboard moane would supply un with ever 80 perest

1 ohould entirante. al the tformntion reenired for the guidance of eur

mattonal palley"), tho gecond lovelveo the collation and Interpretation

of all forme of intelitgence, however obtainod and the production of

delimated.

Valer the Britten dystem, clandestine collection le entruated to the

Secret Intelligence servier.

The sedearch, (nalyate and estimating

funetion fe located in the Foretgn Offico Remarch Departmont:

Under tho Amortcon yeten, ElA hao responthility for both

clandestine collection and research an end yete.

The State Depant"

mon'o Bureau of intolligence and Roscareh alde has regenreh and

analyate repradbistlen. But in practics. Cts hae established

control over the machinery for producing nutionot entimated le euch

a way do to reduce State'a contribution to aubutting tea viewe to clA

tos accoplande co rojection; In ether worde, whord in Great Britain

the Foretgn Office playe the coordinating role in the intelitgence fall,

In the United Statee that role hae been aneumed by ClAy,

SECRET:

---

## Page 14

SECRETI

The argument againet incorporating the research and estimate

function in State was made by Dulles In 1947: "For the proper

Judging of tho situntion ln any foreign country it ta important that

foremation should be proceeded by as agency whore duty lt to eo

wigh facto, and to drau concluaione from thore facte, without

having eithes the facte or the conclustone virpad by the inevitable

and even proper prejudices of the min whose duty it to to determine

policy and uho, having ance determined a poltey. are too likely to

Do blind to any facte which might tend to prove the policy to be

fauity. "

Procisely the came argument can be uned with equal elfect against

tho incorporation o the rescarob and estimate funetion in ClA »

It I intelligence te too clonely comected with operation, then

thone eommital to a particuier operation wil; fond to detect out the

satelligenco uhich validatas the operation,

Obviovely both argumnto conclude in a case foe the estabitehment of

& Inlely independent renearch and satinate grop.

group te too indepindent, ore runa into the opposite danger, thas 1e.

that sotthor poltey not operatione will be aubjoured to sdaquate

Intelligenco chocke,

Tho trouble mith the cuban operation, for eumpte, vas not that

intelligence sad operatione were combined, but precteng that the

Cuhao operetion evaded ogutenatic intelligence julyment. The for

*ol gence branch (22. o cla vo nese informed of the crietence

off the Cubin operation.

She Chico dl Netonal Fetimatoo was never

salmd fo comment on the scrumpitos los eruple that decontent

Bad renched the polt en Cube miere e eucossetal landing operation

would previto upstalage lobiad the linco and defectione fre the

Militie

In Docember and February, the Oftse of Nittonel Bettmatee

produced general operatesla of the Cubes mruantos, Dot Chace more

shally independent of the Cuban operetiony & gathes that, lette

opinion had been lvited, DIl would have given gulte e different

entimete of the erato ol opinton la Cube frem chat on viren the opairae

don was bitte

Thoro exterede in chort the stitculous attalion

SECRET

---

## Page 15

SECRET

1.

that knowledne at the Cuban cocration.

CLA,

The

was denied to even the top cificiale of the intelligence breach.

Bureau of Istalligence and Research of the Departraent of State

knew even lesa about the Cuban operation.

The problem, then, le to have an R&t grouy sufficiently independent

of both policy and operations to resist the pressure to make the cace

for vested ideas and interete - yet sufficiently close to be able to

subject projected operations or policies to the mont intense and

bearching scrutiay.

Where could this group be located? If the CIA were to become

dubordinate to State, as Mi-d in to the Foreign Office, then the RaE

function might be vested in a coordinate subagency, somewhat inde-

pendent of both State and EtA, yet clonely connected with both in day"

today operatione.

The Rat eubagency would receive intelligance

from CLA and from Stato, de well an froz the services and, of course.

frem pustle sources. It would represent. in effect, a fusion el CLADDI

and State/ intelligence and Researel: I might alse take over cartain

of the demice functioni now confided to ciA • photographte intespte..

fatton, bographical data: foreign broadcaet monitoring, overt cellec

ton, mape, etc. There solght be in addition a Jolat Intelligence Board

with sopresentativen from all the intelligence agenetee ind with e

State Department o* White House chairman.

V. Conctuston.

The argument of thie memosandom Implied a fairly Greatle rearrange.

meut of our pretent intelligence set-up. It aldo implies the capacity

al the State Department to astume command of the effustion and to do

pr eat alastive and papable l wanta do it Decame as 8%

not: In tay judgmento dn argumens against a rational seorgnolnation of

Intelligence.

Il de in argument fos a drastic overhaul of the State

Dopartments

SECRET

---

## Page 16

SECRET

15.

The atructure which would meet the criterts auggeated in this

memorandum would be as follows:

1) The State Department would de granted general

clearance authority over all clandestine activity. Thie

might be effectuated on the Britied model by the appolatment

of a Deputy Undersecretary of State for intelligence. who

would act for the Secretasy In these matters and who might

serve sa chairman of a Joint Intelligence Board.

2). The Joint Intelligence Board would include repre-

sentatives from all elements in the intelligence coramunity

and also from the White House.

3) The operating branches of tho present CIA would be

reconstituted undes some blameless sitte (the National Informa.

tion Service). Inte now ageney would be chasged with responsi

Billey los clandestine collection. los covert polltical operationa

and for paramilitary activittee. I would submit projecte to the

Deputy Undersecretary of State for Lutelligence fox clearance.

In general, the agoney would beer somewhas the same relation.

chip to State as the Disarmament Admintetration and IGA

presently do.

4) A second demi independent agency would be set up agala

bearing & blameless title (the Foreign Reenarch Agency), Costil»

nate with tho operatione sganey. This agendy would be charged

with responalbility for collation and interpretation. ll would

lociude GIA/DDI, the Bureau of Intelligence and Research in

State, and the various service functione now carried on by ClA

(photographle infespression, bographical 1lled, foreign broadcast

monitosing, acientifie intelligence, mage, overt collection etc. I

It night well be located in the CIA Building in Molean

Asthur Schleeinger, Jr.

cc: The Attorney General

Mr. Bundy

Mi. Dungan

SECRET

• 406+

---

