# 176-10036-10155

## Page 1

176-10036-10155]

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10155

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : DOS

FROM : Rusk

TO : Saigon

TITLE : Deptel 570

DATE: 10/12/1963

PAGES: 373

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA

Cables. Box 2

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam, 10/6/63-10/14/63, State

---

## Page 2

OUTGOING TEECRAM Department of State

INDICATE:

DOAC

TOP SECREC

VERSION NEE SELE

07.21V

fomentel

EYES ONLY

EXES, ONLY

Der 02: 447PM 53

JOINT CIA DEBENSE STATE MESSAGE,

1st Ex Kingbter 660.

192 Deptel 534 para 9 referred only to those MAP andi CAS

supported airpome ranger intes under rungs command and sitated in

near seigon: Support wil no longer be provided such unite unless the yare,

placed: under IGS control and committed to freia operations

esperate to AS proces of ran terming resp

i piley on certaing is

paramili

many di whien

on auct

eo

Tung This trensfes

is con

to the

objective

elicsicon

readependent po

eragency paper whi

lements

mend

unding thro

+ 1964

Namara:,

unde

Wiel Roger mism

te House

Mrs Forrestal (Substance)

REPRODUGTIO

DUCEROAT

ITED

---

## Page 3

Im NO SATOON O

TOES FORBI

33782

same procedures nowhused tor Cid forg

tose and reagible to transfer to achony.com uns

part certain CAStactivittees. combat: Intelligence teams, and

operations into south Laos and North Viet Namin

such recommended on possible trendremurom cas, responsibl

would out in the logo one CAs Mateoronation

pefully, this slack could bes

ne through el ht lonret

Involved

---

## Page 4

RIS

Page 3. of telegrem to S

De: 22en

TOR SECRET

transfer support of disa strike rotses to wey has been

approved and lo understood to have been completed.

"FA.

0 and to

Special forces nishicommand Hos, and elementsfor

Bist and 7iith Spectat. Forcep eroup should not repeat not be purg in they.

reman in victiaty, on selson and one not lunder des controt. suggent

MAcy reraise itempreyious sugeestion that spectal porced nos bese

moved to, naturane.

request cas end Mack reviey queatton of placint Anandi

nosops uncer asp submitt

Ing their recommend

trons

to,

Ambessador

constrend to

RUSIN

---

