# 176-10036-10190

## Page 1

176-10036-10190

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10190

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR :

FROM : 1

TO :

TITLE : Central Vietnam

DATE : 9/27/1963

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

• DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, File 11: Vietnam

---

## Page 2

SECRET

27 September 1963

SUBJECT: Central Victnam

SOURCE CAS Officers resident in Danang and Bue

In Quang Tri ard: Thua Thien the Strategic Hamlet program 1s

going vell.

There is little Viet Cong activity and the traios run

right and day.

2. With respect to the tamily, 1t is. clear that Brother Can 1s

very substantially withdrawing fron activatpolitical altairs. This

succeecod a difference of opinions he had with President Dien and

expected that many or his candidates for the National Assembly will

be replaced by Nhu men.

3. The situation; in Hue cannot properly be described as an

atmosphere of "fear and terror! but thoriron fist of control 1s

indeed obvious... This control is aimed very directly at the Budchists

and Buddhist activities, but in terns' of actual repression it is

Inited.

Ceneral Do Cao Irl is e'very hard cormander and will brook

no nonsense as to his authority over the city. The military will

follow his cormands. The police are somewhat weak at the top level

but have shown hat they know how to handle a demonstration to prevent

an explosion. Neither polico nor army are. consciously and provocatively

brutal although the latter are apt to be rougher than the forner.

There are approxinately 2,800 students lathe university and

about 2,000 each in two main high schools. The leading organization

vas the Buddist Student Organization but the leaders of this have

been arrested and the students, as a resultiare leaderless.. Theirs

efforts have been nore an anorphous exprossion of protest and frustration

and they have no clear idea of what they are soeklis. The professors i

and even certain foreign professors nore quite influential in pressing

the students to talo action.

The Republican Youth nevement is quite active and is serving

as the vehicle by which new blood is, brought into the leadership of

the villages. The Wonon'a Soliderity Movement, lunts also proving to

be an entronely active group.

those are replacing the Popular Force

which is going into an eclipse as a result of the withdraval of

Brother Can fron actavity

SEGRET

---

