# 176-10011-10152_1

## Page 1

176-10011-10152

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2016

AGENCY: NARA

RECORD NUMBER: 176-10011-10152

RECORD SERIES:

NSF

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: WH

FROM:

TO :

THE RECORD

TITLE: MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

DATE: 06/08/1961

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: UPON AGENCY REVIEW

COMMENTS:

NSF:M&M:SPECIAL GROUP(CI) MEETINGS:6/61-10/62:BOX 319:PENDING NLK-92-104

---

## Page 2

SECRET - EYES CALY

rubit 802.9178

6/1/61

Rhis me

& Juno 1961

MEMERINDUM FOR THE

RECORD

S0D15CT.

Minutes of Spocial Group Meedag, & June 1961

Messse. Devion, Cilpatric, Endy, Ralph Dungan, Dallas

Ser. Dings, Speciel Audistant in the Procident, participated

tn the Special Group monting lot the ftret tina.

- Cougo

Congo, Me.

the three pzovistone tet forth in the Stats Departmont interon!

meritanium dsted 6 ane 1961 (copy altached). Me. Dullee indicatad

that these condllions mure necepted by the Agency but ho palated vet

shot the condition titos proneritos tao molecion a cirenga se 1119

ropesaentative 1s the inogoldville Overament involved to danger

Bar. Bundy felt fast he could

not apprive this prograt. without referauce ts higher authoriey.

Nate wao made of the possiblity that ll Cirongs decided to

participate to a ser Leopoldville Coveramant on Parliament, ho had

ampio rescorces and a chance eventually to win central of the Loversat.

8. Moves of Pollideal Actlen Engleste

Me. Bundy natad thai because of the special conditivity ol

programe involving

Nigher authority wished to review thes.

Mr. Burdy proposed Tauroday or Friday, Jano 15th or 16t1, los

the purpose.

Mr. Bowlee connanted that we might sut to have a general

poltey enumetated regirding this subject.

Othor membora af the Grey

- SEGRET - EYES UNLI

---

## Page 3

SEGRET - EYES

suggested that a general policy stalement might not be rufftcleatly

temble ta tate core of speciel sitations which might arise.

B14-

bulles noted that the pertinent N5o paper autharisod

programa ruch so that mier dieseston, but emphasited that he

would saly undortake this type of activity if it was fully upported

by the Departrent of Etate and higher authority! Ho stated that be

fully appreciated the senstlivity of this typo dactivly. lan. Dulles

said, however, that he felt the Special Gramp shoali have some

¡anrado to make decisions on thave matters within the general policy

which might be laid dowa by higher anthority edibent referrat of

each spocile cise for apptovil..

Mir. Bundy stated that ho would Uks Ets. Dungan to work with

our people to ths perparation of the beleling to ba given higher

authority nost toek.

3: Relesme Praceduras - Francle Gasy Pemene

Encono ol the contingency nature al thie propount and because

nt the crooded agend, discussion ol this mtir ius deleined is is

nort meting.

STPOLLY Flint Viotat

This fight was appreved with Chinat persanel.

There wed duuxe

diocession as so the desirablity of laving Seath Flamamase conduet

thems missione but it was pointed out that thay did not have the

cocapetenee.

3. Carot Ant

et, Vietnam

This anes us approved it was noted that a progrees report

had Just been received and it uns suggented at the report be

Natalbatad to menhoto of the droup.

Govert a

5 20808

#ir, Bundy seiterated the decialea thas covort anneres should

ust be processed threngh tha NSC mechinery. Because of the interest

of higher authority lo politiost netlen sporations in Artendly areas (sca

fam 2) and since this sunes was vritten in rather broad torme, he

rola Hke to check de fither.

27 a

SIGNET - EYES OMLY

---

## Page 4

1. BACKIN

157. Doiten stated the while he panted is opoir discusion ti

Into mater at tale mosting, Le dla not expect a foal deciaton to be

made unil the nest meeting as Judynoted the previoue reev

tions ot the sate Department and the Sact that tsis matter had beeri

constered bnt ant approred three times grestouty. tin. CHpaude

sopported the aced lur eurrent Inisrunthen witch 3ACRtE neurd

prodico and cuggested the possible usa al US. pertainel for te

TACLES mieden De. Dullo stated ito optaton (Bat the use of

Arsenican persomel voild reisa corters problems in the evant al

an aceyeot. The me of wel quilited Chinst crass, he tio spiston.

would milants the rieto tvalved. It was agried that the grapeant

would be reensaited fater.

and of to need for nogotiating wit

Samosa to effent its recovary.

Ato indicated that pome guld pro qua

would probbly bo tvohrod in actorig an egressent wlch so

Iãr. Bandy stuted that this vas a mator that elsaid be negotinted

betasen the Agen, end the Department of sat and tood not be again

relental to the Sociall draug

%

Dalled stated that he vanted to raise in a general way at

the noting the problem of the Agenor's relatic will the exto groupe.

and the politestiona

which the Agency has been expordeg. He emphaland that there

¡evoltod a considerate amnni el monoy and that the unitos sloato

be renolved at an eaty dote. It mee agrend int the Agency should.

docuse this meter with Deputy Sastern Socret Moralet Corries

and mbait a termal proposal to 0n essly mueng al tha Special Gray.

20.

Mimitre of Spostal Snup Nectinge

N?. Fundy requented that oopice al the mintoo al Spacial Cray

coetingo to formarded to membore sl the Group for opproval sed

SECRET - EVES ONLY

---

## Page 5

.Cis

530 23

Ja 01

eatention

Sir. Gilpatele noted the very stoss zelettanship botaesa

his ottee and the kgency and felt thai ho could obtain alt te

infermation he needed without recelving a copy of the minutes.

Mr, Dulles susacnted that because of the centavity al here recorde

and boccune come of tas rofeteacen ernatoed heretn tavalred ihe

use of proudesyme, ths need of the Group might he satistled by

baving coples el the minues of orch recting inds avatable at the

unbeerant mercting los appraval. Mosure. Fundy and bangan agreed

to tho submenian al the minuten lon approvi al a exterquent mosting

but stated that they might have o naed for a complete record immediataly

st hand to sacwer any quetions put to them by higher auctority.

THOMAS ?. SCHRATER

SEGRET - EVES ONLY

---

