# 176-10036-10137

## Page 1

176-10036-10137

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10137

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM:

TO :

TITLE : CIA Information Report

DATE : 10/8/1963

PAGES: 5

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam, 10/6/1963-10/14/63. Box 2

---

## Page 2

SEE CHINITILE.

WEE LON

INFORMATION REPURT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

and 794, 16e vermission be revelationg

vellation othe

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-L

COUNTRY

SOUTH VIETNAM

SUBJECT, SITUATION APPRAISAL AS OF 5 OCTOBER 1963

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND

USE ONLY/CONTROLLED DISSEM

REPORT NO. TDCS DE-3/657,133

DATE DISTR.

8 OCTOSER 1963

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

DATE OF

INFO.

REFERENCES

IN 33775

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

VIETNAM, SAIGON (5 OCTOBER 1963)

APPRAISAL CONMENTARY

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE STAFF OFFICERS OF THIS ORGANIZATION.

1, THIS IS A FIELD APPRAISAL OF THE CURRENT SITUATION. IT IS NOT AN.

OFFICIAL JUDGEMENT BY THIS AGENCY OR ANY COMPONENT. IT REPRESENTS TEE

OBSERVATIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS OF STAFF OFFICERS BASED ON INFORMATZON AVATTAELE

TO THEM AT THE TIME OF ITS PREPARATION. PREPARED FOR INTERNAI USE AS A GUIDE TO

THE OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT, THIS CONMENTARY IS DISSEMINATED IN THE BELTES THAT:

IT MAY BE USHFUL TO CIHER AGENCIES IN ASSESSING THE SITUATION FOR THEIR OWN

PURPOSES.

2. THE MOST STRIKING FEATURE OF THE INTELLICENCE REPORIS FOR THE WEEK OF

29 SEPTEMBER-5 OCTOBER 1963 HAS BEEN A GREATER DEPTH OF REPORTING ON COUP.

PLOILING, PROVIDING INFORMATION IN CONSIDERABLE DETAIL AS TO THE PERSONALICIES

INVOLVED AND THEIR ALLOTTED ROLES. STILL LACKING, HOWEVER, IS SOLID INTORMATION

AS TO THE CORESIVENESS OF VARIOUS GROUPS REPORTED READY TO LAUNCH A COUF AND DO

• CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C+0J98

sides from,

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

NO SORRISY

USE

COSTELES BISEM AEROAD/BACKERCUND

do urgrodeg

18118+500499009

TELEG

INFORMATION REPOR

MIR IK6 OSSOLETE PREVIOUS BOITIONS.

(25-20%

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO. FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-L

• BACKGROUND USE ONLY /CONTROLLED

TDCS DB-3/657;133

DISSEM

IN 33775

PAGE

TWO

THE EXTENT TO WHICH THEY ENJOY FIRM LEADERSHTP. AT THE TOP OF THE ICEBERG. OF WHICH

WE ARE STILL GETTING ONLY TANGENTIAL GLIMPSES

3. THE GENERALS MEANWHILE ARE NOW PRESSING PRESIDENT NGO DINE DIEM FOR A

REPLY TO THE DEMANDS MADE SEVERAL WEEKS AGO DURING THE HEIGHT OF THE MARTIAL :

LAW PHASE. AS DESCRIBED BY GENERAL TRAN VAN DON, THE LIST OF DEMANDS ARE QUITE

EXTENSIVE, INCLUDING THE ASSIGNMENT OF MILITARY MEN: TO THE POSIS OF MINISTERS

OF DEFENSE, INTERIOR, CIVIC ACTION AND EDUCATION. THEY ALSO ASKED FOR CONIROL:

OF THE SAIGON/CHOLON POLICE AND. THE PLACEMENT OF THE CAPITAL REGION UNDER A

PERMANENT MILITARY GOVERNORSHIP. DON SAYS THAT HE AND HIS FELLOW GENERAL: OFFICERS

DO NOT EXPECT DIEM TO ACCEDE TO THIS PACKAGE OF PROPOSALS, ACCEPTANCE: OF WHICH

WOULD INDEED AMOUNT TO A VIRTUAL SURRENDER ON. THE PART OF DIEM AND NGO DINH NHU.

THE LATTER WILL PROBABLY GO PART WAY, HOWEVER, IN MEETING THE DESIRES OF THE

MILIIARY IN AN EFFORT TO DETER THE LATIER FROM ATTEMPTING AN EARLY COUP: THEIR:

TACTIC IS LIKELY TO BE ONE OF SERKING TO ENMESH THE GENERALS: IN TIME-CONSUMING

NEGOTIATIONS RELATED TO THE PROSPECTIVE REVAMPING OF THE GOVERNMENT WITH A VIEW.

TOWARD GAINING TIME IN WHICH TO MONITOR AND BREAK UP ANY COUP COMBINATION WHICH

MAY BE DEVELOPING. THE OUTCOME OF MANEUVERING BETWEEN DIEM AND NHU AND THE

MILITARY DURING THE COMING FEW WEEKS, OR POSSIBLY EVEN DAYS, IS LIKELY TO BE

OF DECISIVE IMPORIANCE TO FUTURE COURSE OF EVENTS IN SOUTE VIETNAM.

4. DESPITE THE IMPRESSION OF THE RETURN TO NORMALITY THAT IS BEING FOSTERED

BY THE REGIME, THE ATMOSPHERE IN SAIGON CONTINUES TO BE PERVADED TO A CONSIDERABLE

DEGREE BY FEAR AND UNCERTAINTY. ARRESTS REPORIEDLY ARE CONTINUING, AS WELL AS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY/

CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

## Page 4

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-L

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM NO DISSEM ABROADCSDB-3/657,133

IN

33775

BACKGROUND USE ONLY /CONTROLLED

DISSEM

PAGE

THREE

SEARCHES OF PRIVATE HOMES BY THE SECURITY FORCES.

5.

THERE ARE SCATTERED INDICATIONS THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM (GVN) IS

PLANNING TO SPRING SOME SURPRISES ON THE 26 OCTOBER NATIONAL DAY CELEBRATIONS:

NHU, FOR EXAMPLE, IS REPORTED TO HAVE TOLD THE GENERALS THAT IN A FEW WEEKS FE

WOULD UNDERTAKE AN UNSPECIFIED ACTION OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL NATURE. WHICH NEITHER

"THE. WEALTHY NOR THE AMERICANS WOULD LIKE." WE ALSO HAVE A REPORT THAI SWeEPING

CHANGES IN THE POLICE AND CIVIL INTELLIGENCE COMPLEX WILL OCCUR, MORE FRIVOLOUS

BUT PERHAPS SUGGESTIVE OF THE DESIRE BY THE REGIME TO EASE THE CURRENT AIMOSPHERE

IN SAIGON ARE THE RUMORS THAT THE BAN ON DANCING WILI EE LIFTED, NATIONAL, DAY

WOULD BE THE LOGICAL TIME FOR DIEM TO ANNOUNCE REVAMPING OF HIS GOVERNMENT, PROVIDEI

THIS DELICAIE OPERATION CAN BE COMPLETED IN TIME.

6..

A STRIKING THING ABOUT THE ELECTIONS WAS THE FACT THAT THEY WENT OFF

VIRTUALLY WITHOUT INCIDENT, EITHER IN SAIGON OR IN THE COUNTRYSIDE. TRERE HAD

BEEN SEVERAL INDICATIONS THAI THE VIET CONG (VC) INTENDED DISRUPTION AS A COMPANION

TACTIC TO THEIR PROPAGANDA CALL FOR TRE BOYCOIT OF THE ELECTIONS: NEITHER DURING

THE ELECTIONS, NOR DURING THE PRECEDING BUDDHIST CRISIS, DID THE COMMUNISTS SEEM

ABLE TO CAPITALIZE ON THEIR IMMEDIATE, OPPORTUNITIES. ESPECIALLY LACKING WAS THE

EXERCISE OF THE IR MUCH VAUNIED CAPABILITIES FOR TERRORISM, RAISINA SOME QUESTION

IN OUR

MINDS AS TO WHETHER VC ABILITY TO USE TERRORISM IN CITIES/ AS GREAT AS WE

HAD BEEN LED IO BELIEVE. IT WAS VIRTUALLY IMPOSSIBLE IO MEASURE THE SUCCESS OF

THE VC BOYCOIT APPEAL SINCE THE GN, IN MANY AREAS MORE OR LESS FORCED THE ELECTORALE

TO VOTE AND IN AREAS WHERE ITS CONTROL WAS NOT THAT. STRONG, THE REGIME AIMOST...

CERIAINLY FALSIFIED THÉ PERCENTACES OF THE VOTE.

CLASSIFICATION: DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY/

CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

## Page 5

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/ TDCS DB-3/-657,133

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-I BACKGROUND USE ONLY/CONTROLLED DISSEM

IN

33775

PAGE FOUR

7. ONE INDICATION OF THE REGIME'S INCREASED CONFIDENCE THAT IT HAS THE

SITUATION UNDER CONIROL IS THE FACT THAT COLONEL TUNG HAS RELEASED TWO COMPANIES

OF SPECIAL FORCES TROOPS FOR OPERATIONS AGAINSI THE VC.

8. ALTHOUGH MOMENTARILY QUIESCENT BECAUSE OF THE FEAVY GN SECURITY CONTROLS,

THE STUDENTS CONTINUE THEIR ORGANIZATIONAL. ACTIVITIES AND ARE DEVELOPING. PLANS. FOR

FURTHER ACTION AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT. THERE APPEARS TO BE CONSIDERABLE DIVISION

OF OPINION AMONG THE VARIOUS STUDENT GROUPS, SOME OF WHICH EXISTED PRIOR TO THE

BUDDHIST CRISIS AND SOME HAVE SINCE EMERGED. REPORTING RECEIVED TO DATE WOULD :

INDICATE THAT THE VC HAVE NOT YET MADE SIGNIFICANT INROADS INTO THE STUDENT MOVE-

MENT, ALTHOUGH THIS IS OF COURSE AN INCREASING POSSIBILITY IF RELATIONS BETWEEN

THE STUDENTS AND THE GN LONG REMAIN IN THEIR PRESENT UNSATISFACTORY STATE. IN

PARTICULAR, WE HAVE LITTLE EVIDENCE TO SUPPORT THE THESIS THAT THE STUDENTS ARE:

FLEEING/THE COUNTRYSIDE TO JOIN THE VC ALTHOUGH SOME REPORTEDLY DID LEAVE SAIGON

AND HUE TO AVOID ARREST DURING THE PERIOD OF THE GOVERNMENT CRACKDOWN. IS:

PROVIDES ADDITIONAL:

442:

9. A REPORI FROM

BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE NHU-MANELI MEETING IN EARLY SEPTEMBER AND ON THE

GENERAL, SUBJECT OF POSSIBLE GVN-DRV RAPPROCHEMENT. ACCORDING TO INFORMATION

RECEIVED BY THE SOURCE FROM A FRENCH EMBASSY OFFICER, HO CHI MINE HAD AT ONE TIME

INDICATED TO A FORMER FRENCH REPRESENTATIVE IN NORTH VIETNAM HIS DISCOURACEMENT

OVER CASUALTIES SUSTAINED IN THE WAR IN THE SOUTH, HIS DISTASTE FOR. THE CHINESE

PRESENCE IN THE DRV, AND HIS RESTIVENESS OVER SOVIET "INIERFERENCE" OF AN

UNSFECIFIED NATURE

WAS REPORTED TO HAVE PASSED THIS ON TO NHU WHO,

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM: ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY/

CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

## Page 6

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E -N-T-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

TDCS DB-3/657,133

BACKGROUND. USE ONLY /CONTROLLED DISSEM

IN •

33775

PAGE FIVE

ACCORDING TO THE FRENCH, LEAKED IT TO JOSEPH ALSOP, THUS BETRAYING THE CONFIDENTIAL

FRENCH CONVERSATION WITH HO. THE FRENCH ALTEGEDLY FEEL THIS PUT

IN AN

UNLENABLE POSITION; HENCE, HIS FAILURE TO RETURN TO SAIGON. IT IS DIFFICULT TO

BELIEVE THAI THE FRENCH REALLY CONSIDER NHU'S "INDISCRETION" AS SERIOUS, AS THEY LET

ON. SOURCE CLAIMS, FOR EXAMPLE, THAT MANELI TOLD NHU PRRCTICALLY THE SAME STORY

ABOUT HO'S PREOCCUPATIONS:

10. FIELD DISSEM.: STATE (AMBASSADOR, DOM, USMACY (HARKINS), CINCPAC, PACPII,

PACAF, ARPAC.

END OF MESSAGE

C-O-N-F-I-D-E -N-T-I-A-L

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO. DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY/

CONIROLLED DISSEM.

---

