# 176-10010-10102_1

## Page 1

176-10010-10102

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency. Information

• Date:

5/5/2016

AGENCY: NARA

RECORD NUMBER :

176-10010-10102

RECORD SERIES: NSF

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

WH

MEMO

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: IC

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : UPON AGENCY REVIEW

COMMENTS:

NSF:CO:Cuba, Miro Cardona (Inner Folder):Box 45

v9.1

24

---

## Page 2

C

De Hire Gardene returrod to mille this vent. on Thuroday Died Coolain aske

no Mo cono do hia crites to hour Miro'n account of the Gorlo-Schlouingor ession;

to dev Torie Letoo the Invesdon of Susa. US Shud and Morld Banont Mad reprinted

a clopy cloteing that gho-passsabad-Dose assa2ad-02.05

allstari.suppoit. In.a

Lorient wanes Stant

stawar: disop had dended ints, augiry chat Schlosiozor ad

thia

and t=?

agasand that hain

tro Gounel!,

Mero no chalase do Goddain sna do that Berle in a dinner at bia

Gnorastoun house had procised that 15.000 US 1r0050 bouid do avallable to hels

the Outone, and that ha has nade closr ee tho contury dius luncheon shat nothing

Na sory naying

euperseded that promiss. Hire accordingly dant aray frow that

luncheon, die

005.0978,

convinced inns, doptto that tho: Pronidone had sid st

tria proso comoranco and desptie-vat me dad boid co hly then,

the iranie:

Hould atill set diroce be

Thl8:0l1

I cannot tragine borio saline any

such

Mobaroness Canters to

onco the jarasion tartad,

the warines would

be dragged da,

regardlena brialt niontiona triche contraryl. Honorer, one sosory

Feste

the: thore engrave soon s gonuine sisunderatin ingo? con racall that

Tracy Bernea sailed to the next day and aird shother doris had said anything

about 15,000 reope

dent diro had cono andy gros the linch with acse dogres

sion that us troons eight entor the jicture. the I told Sarges

at tha tito, ay

only recolloction of such a fleure ana in coinsetson bith supplies - that, eure

the beechend vore establlched, Berla red aaid that arus for 15, 000 gor woui e

avallablo. In any case,

Tan I socestor, Sarnea Magell Mout to New York thet dor le

clear up any rosa ring blaunderntending. I douté that Miro 1a ensegéd la daren-

torn cocoption but, tho experionce ancua tho poror of tho retroactirs leadina

Jon,

Wen Saturday, I went to snother needing with Hiro in which ho vas prosences

vito the torso on Maich the US proceed to continuo sta galationshir ulth the 090:

Tho teruo aro devorited in the atisched sonorandu. then they voro rach lease,

Mire nado a atrong patch for an explivi! Ue corolluont to a nor tarasion, *; sannot

ask my pooplo," ho said,

Sto ongage in underground work and in cabotag unless !

know definitoly that thago aettone soo londing to/bloarly dopisod and agrest-en

clImax. I cennot go sat as chairean of the Councll unlong there 1o a cigar coul

cont thai the us will participato in an evontual Intacion of Cuon: I haro Loir

deluged with gloas roo widors and fastlles. of thoeo who took part in the loril

tragody, My con son so in Castrolo prisona. The progres you aro presorting to so

1a a prologue and nothine toro. Thoro

to no point in a prologue unloss ono 1o.

mro wat the conclusion willco:

Gooivini *ür understand and sapathiso with or Hirols position, Us share hi:

deslie for

&n overthroh

of the Caotro rogles. No havo propared a progreo of action.

to that end. jut va

Ee nact

Confit the le govertiont to sonothing go for-rera.*

as an lavatin of Cuca:

I the indstinite future, Miistery setion In are Sours

my or say not be nacodeare cousible or necessary. Buth

two continue to dott

together = and i hopo me gan

11 mint do on the baoto of tho saco guelo rot.

the raza hopes. do runt

do all we can ln tho intorcate or the cause for bial! va

rIght. A comultaost for tho Indofinite futuro urder conditions snich no one cro be

wins gricugh to forosee canoet bu

sada

at thla tina.

Hiro.:?l understand your

must w-deretard

commitsonto i invo no altera

nine

If thore can ba se

saying that i cannot icon

•but

head

to proparo a letter to Prooldont Konnedy

ino, Cornol?

The

progruns inaderust

both bacause of to lack

definitions

messite too place and xi 3624

bochuas of lash ce cont

rogress of propaganda

and glendestlin seetsieg

The garblespanion charoun

controllod by thé: cho

nuld bo a handicapit: the

-argloation re: 0609.7

Indianstons tol

partterpatten

ready

serialnt

in o5 penelle

c.alir.a17

peone 11

N2,00

---

## Page 3

only

flong to slavission vich tho.oro.

Il, thore lo anything unsatisfastory in the

co nectitha pointa you have prerbusly seda: to us.

Miror. "I still ceol tat the ariangonon: for propaganda le unsaluadory

hali even

1r= could In lurice 14a broad sasorlentetion, It wound stad

yal!

prepared. Also I rould have

ne control ozor a portion of the clanductim

Actlvition, Chos offar groups Learn they can trpses the saunell end gol diroc"

asolatance from tho US Cozaracnt, the result

mill bag proliferation or groups

much milos dauging both to singent ocaratlona and to che politieal tuturo o

Cubao Cheug things,on top of a leck of colth 1n tho ulcleats ond, load zo to

coel nogátire sout proceeding on thia bagla.! I have axmiangod

ay

will do to talloore to medliale. gy firal declalon. My lottor will to courtroud

As respectful, but ay present conlecion da that Ey topporo suat do a rodigration.

"Thore 19 no quention that the figh will

go on. irè only question 1a

cother ricon conduct lu gith Drviro's Indiapongable scoperation.

Miro. art rosted free the do, i lo

not withdraw fros the flztt."

cerydifferent without or Miro no

ne hoad of the grucp. tua lead racip lo recesasry fat both tho clarification

puroobs and the racilitation of che

struggle. No one

olse, can stop irto your

cho reêtine broke up on thin noto,

with stro to you do non on Monday. Dick and

---

## Page 4

and kroot circe bitt

3

10.00:a.0?

 dolog

see.

lon

but here

Ore probles daise

don Inereases laporion

sobe aft and

booked rele

1hs 293.

Berinest

:A

ars.

Untou arepo a diraalor occurad swo drya ago witn

Lay

: o

*tio

student geoup,

no with cliptations.

unth Corcharle to ages to joine the ced.and

!!.

nac droups

whter.

Are

Supered

enter lio

2nd have rostered doing

20,90g

agalial the cac. debortrelesa nil the vaid

65.34405.

c*.

==A

112:1

th

1

ingrationi

morod hidestr arseive

1,0:3.

ra!...

i r:

nico had 8r0 long,

CAlLANTE

thir?

sha plers. liesprying

JiA,

too gland 5o09h70d-44940047

T2y90900

le 1Bra010n

Chlaking and Colonel chosen

scegtal thee only freder to dotabllab support

0161

in zomple:e

hoopon 1cs10s cuse.

Know that recrult!

Dut

+9319 80158.

Masog athdant and dator stompe ?e:

in p

• we

chle

our era, contects and not fros cia, In addition,

0.0FA 21

•!:.

chocans alth the Caput Essking tho Councill

i2'д

agent secrepento the Croaco erote in

190

---

## Page 5

C

tr:

Charo mes

word to the 9a0. Nor nog de been Inforced et all

copping perclots in

Baba.

ino O90 /oa:g.3011har

.!?"

then A tront for

for

Bill 0. 95a1:

conilnis?.

no a 9il operation. Bangsajo le recou dina

peoples, frenly offering ards end zoness

Maturally poonto go chare biey ere caferoi

arms

7 du5.

the post or Goglerbor f, vulch? uns relatant to azeto top: abe iler.

10%.

Tiese 109907105901

on Sandey tore

dinner se which

2 / 13.

Manure?

SiA contlaues to do Wan"ilt

220

has anything partonal

againcline, It 13

the wish 1o

run thingd se

hoy hate

doro sofard.

They are destrongra the che be the statuds. Henso cy de:

plea minos

Irrevemble

i5177,

soap duett

Castro

• Against 109 Gorap lone so the pace ageles:

11 hago lo 11gat tho 301105 800 of sli chio, :

daclara nysale pangulane!.

209a

*121

.s11:

situstion 2u

ong. althludeg.

nesting alecuting forus'

More Yond

Goodnin Four.

you all not anneance your Assigration untl? tha

Maultrid?

cri. Cube) on Thurpiny.:

nfier so gary dicappot retry

experlonce, will

shochordo. Inite ael goslsive

arrangetones connes colmade de locore thid allistics.

Ir niceunal, 1rcende go

Coastavy or so the frealiant.

colled

for Thuraday no 3 lo Wag. Twill esther hero ta

so cho cRa hu reberation to or olor have dansthina concludo to offer shoe dan?

them

Tho 2- hour perio was sobraguantly!

Conginond to a some one log darnien

wen nonignod tho?

3d5ro?. bringing

tha cod Ino linese chall goo shes do chall sis.

---

## Page 6

46ded

MA:REA. E014011. F20.

OOT? C200C71 9UL Pales

Mayr Increased lepor.ongs

=?.

gangles Cran

3=6'

•on

yand

C

S

tho 598.

Goernors

Onlon 28500..0

dariolor. cocurred iwo.doga.ugo klei

docent. loadnts

25

studene group de debtos unel Corcher le to agros to doine to ceo.det

sutp:/0::036.

.00pas:0.0!

serialloon could be tad 11 14

e soapielous colncidaar

rouys

ish 1.er.

dirc

S4074

35c have roslated doing do and

peganlad campaigie agalrat

{e.

•AN"

i-e.

coc. Nepentrelesorall the.

There

no moupo continuo to doi

1!

1

corsi

•Ir.

totalan too. long talks vitt

thir?

4AY02201

mar cacrod hiabir arselve

cho plans. lAce

Зіл,.

resorted lo ingeroe

chlaking and Colonel chnaon gicepted, then oalysir.order

notabllab rippert

a gamiere

Igneranen abod: what

That rest

scalltrazion

cạn

8.85

01:2

19. 80106

do reing sindent and intor grape for

iratoire tod

th1g

2 ru

otherit

chooday alts tie CRO de darking tho Councile

0 8A2 CIA

agar! aceuspenses the Crosco erbun 1x 18

---

