# 176-10033-10160

## Page 1

176-10033-10160|

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10033-10160

RECORD SERIES : Church Committee

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :

FROM :

TO : Attorney General

TITLE : Operation Mongoose: Main Points to Consider

DATE : 10/26/1962

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE : Paper, Textual

CLASSIFICATION : Declassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 8/28/2002

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

t Annet

T----

---

## Page 2

Mr. McGeorge Bundy

SENSITIVE

SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET

OPERATIOn MONGOOSE

Main Pointe to Consider

26 October 1962

What la the Policy Objective? We need a sharp focus on

exactly what we hope to get from Mongoose now. This will determine

how beat to employ these unique U.S. resources . aither to support

V.S. military operatione or directly to commit against the Communiet

regime Immediately.

Is the end objective the removal of the Caetro/Communist

regime os to bring it to its kneed? Should Mongoose help generate

a popular revolt with the probable need for overt U.S. military help

an the regime moves in to crush 18? Or, is the aim that of martmum

haraesment, to tanke Guba a maximum burden for the Bloc?

Undoubtedly, most people in the world now expect un to move

towards removing the Castro/Communet regime. Certainly the

Cubans in exile and incide Cuba, who are the main covert anneto ef

alA, now expect thie polley goal se the price of riaking their livee.

2. Mongoose Actiona

a, Hargesment of and resistance to Caban regime.

Status: 3 teams (2- to 5-man) en route by small craft

today, 6 teams by submarine, starting tomorrow. One

more team being readied to go in by small craft. 10 more

teams being readied te go by eubmarine shortly. One team

now la Oriente and one team in Pinst del Rio. All teame

have W/T, arms, explosives.

b. Guban-owned shipping (22 ahips). Sink la Cuban or Bloe

- posta, or high seas, Sabotage cargoes. Make crewe inoperative.

Statue: CIA has ll assete aboard Cuban owned shipe.

Action ordero have gone to Hambarg, for actlon, Other

action ponding.

Propegands dellvered to Cuba by balloon from ship.

Status: Cla does not have eapability yet.

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

REGRADING: DOD DIR 5200.10

DOES NOT APPLY

SANITIZER ARIS: 11.67

11

---

## Page 3

TOP SECREI

SENSITIVE

d. Major seto of sabotage against Mated targete of ete

productles, POl storage, power plante, transport, communleatione.

Statues

Tears being trained for majer sabotage were

made part of teams now belag sent in by submarine. (SAM

sites de sovlet techniciano are not largeto.)

Minos acte of sabotage, by all Cuban people. Requiree

delivery of instructians, of how to do it, to Cubas people.

Statuss No current capability indicated by CIA. Teame

going ln for any purpose at this tiras should have this aralga.

1. Sabotage of sugar production and delivesy.

Seatus, No current espabllity. Now trying to set agalant

salpmente of jute angging.

$. Delect "namo" personages of regime, lo fraction the

regime, to esploit for political and psycholagleal ende.

Statuer Minor Alplomate boing defected. Actiona with

ronjor personages unauccesefal ao las. Special effort de

indicated.

Help the Cubans to holp thamselves. Thie means greater

S. eupport of Cuban greupe to take actions in Cuba.

Statun: Undes study. No irm plan yes for dolng.

1. Demonstratione of workore and farmore in Cuba, tra

Lein Amertes, againet the Castro-Communict regime. Such

demonetrations In Cuba would iblit the regine to lle cose.

Statug: laternational Longeheraman'e Association now

refusing wert Cubon cargaos. No means yet for demonetra-.

Mons inside Cuba: Special State/CIA action le indicated.

Expose cosponsible Individuals in the Castro/Communtet

reglime, an a means tovardo selantag police-state contrele. Indiet

"people's

eriminalo" for justice alter the government de returned te

the people.

SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET

SENSITIVE

V

Statue: No activity on specifie operation. However,

CIA now completing "black liat"' of knewn Cuben Intelligence

and security officials, la support of possible U.S. military

oparation. About 5, 000 names.

# Give Cuban resistance popular symbols. Songo. Vienal.

Statue: No song yet. Visual symbol la "gueano libre. "

Political planning fos post-Castro period.

Status: No firm planning roported from State. The need

V

for cleas U.S. polley objectives la baste here..

"Grusade" fos human liberty, to make maximum use of

spiritual appeal. Prayers, such aa by Bishop Basa Masvidal, widely

publicized inside Cuba. Take use of memery of Marti away from

Communiate and give it to Cuben 'freedom fightera. "

Status: Sporadle activities, not a "crusade. "

U.S. or Free Cuban sadio and TV broadcaste into Guba.

Status: USIA making mastum upe of medium and short

wave radlo facilities, Including CiA and commercial resourcee.

No "Volce of Free Cuba" short-wave broadcast scheduled

immediately, New 50-lw radio tranamitter expected to be

operational in Florida Keye next weel. TV broadcasts from

aircraft now under development. (Being developed outalde

Mengoose. )

SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET

---

