# 176-10036-10188

## Page 1

176-10036-10188

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

• AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER

: 176-10036-10188

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR :

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Students

DATE : 9/23/1963

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, File 11: Vietnam

---

## Page 2

SECRET

20 Jeptenber 1963

SUBJECT:

Students

SOURCE: Seven CAS Olficers in Saigon

1. Students, movements comprise the following:

Tho Buddulat Student Organizationis This has been organized

about ono year but up until lay 8 had only about 30 members. Ey nor

1t claims 1,000 in the universities aud about 3,000 in high schools

It has developed a clandestine cell structure of only coderate efficiency

Its prosicenty.

, was arrested in August. He bagan life vantin

to bo a monk and was sent to Edinburgh University for adrance studios.

He lost his calling, horever, and warried but he has mintained his

active interest

in Sudchisn, attending the world federation of Buddnict

of Buddhism and noved to a political position of opposition to the GN

B. The National Union of Students: This gas developed by

Tron Kin Tuyen 23 a GVN front. As a conscquence, it never had any

ral life although it served as the Vietnanese representative in the

Costc, International student organization. Its leader;

Shank; like

soveral of its officers, aro now in hiding as they do not dare at thin

point to come out either for or against the GVN

C. There are other minor and sone clandestine student

organizations of small numbers, such as the Catholics, the ViODD,

etC

All of these student crranizations are thus rest and clandestine

although the morale of the students is bitter and intense.

Maes arrests heve generally taken place at, dononstrations or

to prevent a specific denonstration. In addition, however, there have

been sno selective arrests of officers of students" groups, etc.

for the normal student the arrests have not beon serious as other than

sone brutality in the course of mass arrests or demonstrations they

were not nistreated. For the leaders, however, thore was some brutality

and beating.

There were sone indications that this mistreatment was

accomplished without the knowledge of the Palace.

3.The possibilities of an explosion by students are not considered

high

or the following reasons.

A. The student dislike of the GVN. la quite intense end they

are very bitter

Lovover:

there are very lev who are so intensly

concerned that they are willing to

rick death

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

The students have no clear hope of success or support

by other elements. This afreces cue willingness of students to tare

major ricks 11 there 1o not a better hope of succoss. Sone of the

studento have to some dogree adopted the attentcolan of their parents

and are looking for a clear Indication before taking major steps.

This ts to some extent a rocloction of the bureaucratic origins of

many of then. chero is also little indication of real support by

otker olements such as labort,the militury, the Americans, etc.

C.

*An explosion night be Induced by a cler caso of "visual

brutality with a resultant

shock value. Non-visual brutality, however

hạc a less immediate inpact

Whilo the students are clandestinely organizing this has not proccodec

very far yet.

The degree os controt and penetration of the students by

police corvices, permitting the police to forestall many of the

students! plans.

4. the student attitudas toward, she Viet Cong are as follows:

There: 1s very Littloninclination by students to go to

Cho torost and Join the Viet Cong to espress their futense distaste

o2 che cvy:

There is Conoraat, creater but still not very nuch condoney

to take an active subversive role in place by joining a vc coll en

gaging in terrorien, etc, Sone, of the comboys" may take these steps

but few others fian part

dus tothercautious backgrounds. og fami1103

of pany of the etudents

C. There is a stigst degroo of passive, support for che

Notional Liberation Pront and the vo, although the potontial for

greaten allegiance along thia line sol posauble

SECRET

---

