# 176-10036-10080

## Page 1

176-10036-10080

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10080

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Program to sample peasant attitudes and opinions

DATE :

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 196: Vietnam, 9/62. Box 2

---

## Page 2

Mr. Farcestch.

[See Sanitiest Versin 12K-93-103

SECRET

ietnam

CURRENT RESULTS OF

PROGRAM TO SAMPLE PEASANT ATTITUDES

AND OPINIONS

The following is a summation of the results of the firet

five months of a program designed to sample peasant attitudes

and opinions in South Vietnan:

The Government of Vietnam (GVN) The peasants attitude

towards the GVN vartes considerably fron village to village,

- get:

depending on the anount of control exercised by the govern

ment and/or the Viet Cong. Iven in those areas under complete

ow domination, however, there to foeling that the GVil lacke

"a loyal, honest cadre capable of helping and leading the

people at the local level. The OVN has failed to eliminate

corrupt clonents in the middle and lover echelone of the

Goverment, despite the fact that there 1s still indication

of respoct for President Dion's notives and honesty.

Strategie Hamlote Certain resentment has artion over the

construction of strategic hamlets particularly those to wiich

villagore are moved forcibly. There has been evidence of

official corruption in the execution of the Strategie Hanlets

program and much resentment extets toward forced labor and

forced financial contribution to the progran. The basic peasant

desire is security

Next le to be left slone by both the GVN

2:900

and the VC:

In cases there the cly has been able to provide

security the peasant has tended to be pre govermont.

---

## Page 3

/Ca

STAG

Americans on the positave side, Americans are generally

well regarded by the Vietnamese arned forces for their contri

butions in the form of military aid, road construction ete.

Some Vietnanese peasants; on the other hand, are inclined to

belteve the Americans have come to replace the French. This

to perhape a manifestation of the lact that the Vietnamese,

by nature, are often deeply prejudiced against foreignere

Very little evidence of American aid has as yet reached come

peasants who are exposed to communist propaganda and control.

Armed Forces Morale has much improved in the Vietnamese

army over the past six nonths, an inereased Americas hilitary

ald has begun to convince the arny that it can vin. Peasant

opposition to the Self-Defense Corps (SDC) runs high due to

the fact that the DC 16 poorly paid and has a tendency to "live

off the land", stealing food and vomen fron the villigers.

In addition, training and morale in the siC remin low. The

Civil Guard stande somewhere between the army and the SDC in

morale with a proportionate decrease In peasant resentment

of the Civil Guard, Those opinione are in direet proportion

to the equipnent, pay scales end degree of disciplino of the

three services

Viet Cong

The strength of the Viet Cong can best be

SECRET

---

## Page 4

10a

SE

CRET

esplaned by the lackadaisical attitude of the peasants

toward both the VC and the GVN. In areas where both aides

exercise control over a villngo (the VC at night and the GViT

during the day) there ig a tendency to fear the VC, pay their

taxes, and do their chores, but to have nore respect for the

GYN program which is more often constructive rather than des

structive.

Montagnards

The tendency has been for the Montagnard

tribesmen to swing toward opposition to the VC and attempt to

accept arms to defend thenselves against them Onithe other

hand. the Montagards do not care for the Vietnanese ethic

group as a whole, be they communist or otherwise.

3

SECRET

---

