# 176-10036-10147

## Page 1

176-10036-10147

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER

: 176-10036-10147

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : CIA Information Report

DATE : 9/27/1963

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

Reports. Box 2

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam,9/22/63-10/6/63, CIA

---

## Page 2

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPURT TELEGRAM

COUNTRY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Bette

normation affectin

rariimission o

revelation'

the : National

United States

in any manner to

une uthorized

DerSOn

erson a prombined be fan

of the: Espionage

Laws,

Title 18, U.S.C - Sect,

prohibited

SECRET

(When Filled In)

• CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE

SOUTH •VIETNAM

NORTH. VIETNAM

REPORT NO. TDCS D8-3/656,927

SUBJECT

MEETING BETWEEN POLISH INTERNATIONAL

CONTROL COMMISSION

DELEGATE AND

NGO DINH NHU

DATE DISTR.

27 SEPTEMBER 1963

PRECEDENCE

ROUT I NE

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

2 AND 23 SEPTEMBER 1963

REFERENCES

IN

28400

VIETNAM, SAIGON (23 SEPTEMBER 1963)

SEE BELOW

FIELD REPORT NO: FVS 9711

THIS Is UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

APPRAISAL: IN VIEW: OF THE WIDELY DIVERGENT ACCOUNTS: OF THE NHU/MANELI MEÉTING, MANELI'S

STATEMENTS CONCERNING. WHAT TRANSPIRED AT THE MEETING CANNOT BE ACCURATELY JUDGED.

• HOWEVER, IT IS QUITE POSSIBLE THAT MANEL I DID. OFFER TÖ SERVE AS AN INTERMEDIARY

BETWEEN NHU AND THE DRV. MANELI'S STATEMENTS CONCERNING DRV. ATTITUDES TOWARD

NEUTRALIZAT IÓN AND. THE WAR IN SOUTH VIETNAM.AS. WELL AS HIS. JUDGEMENT. CONCERNING

PHAM VAN DONG MAY BE ACCURATE. : PLEASE NOTE THE FIELD COMMENT IN PARAGRAPH 6.

1: 1. SUMMARY: ON 23 SEPTEMBER 1963 THE CHIEF OF THE POLISH

DELEGATION TO THE INTERNATIONAL CONTROL COMMISSION (ICE) IN SAIGON,

DR. M. MANELI, SAID THAT DURING HIS MEETING WITH NGO DINH NHU ON

2 SEPTEMBER NHU HAD DONE MOST OF THE TALKING. MANELI ASKED NHU

FOR HIS VIEWS ON DE GAULLE'S STATEMENT ON VIETNAM TO WHICH NHU

REPLIED THAT DE GAWLLE WAS TRYING TO RETURN TO THE OBJECTIVES OF.

THE 1954 AGREEMENT. MANELI ALSO ASKED IF THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM

(GVN) HAD CONSIDERED DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (DRV) PROPOSALS

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEW

SO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGRO

ONLY

CIB

GROUP I

Encluded liam autoriai

soungradng and

duelesafication

DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR. SCS

SECDEF

NSA

NIC.

A!D

US I A

OC 1

ONE

ORR

00

STATE/ INR

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

EXO

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

FOR 1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(15-31

---

## Page 3

11

SECRET

(When. Filled "In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:

NO FOREIGN DISSER

NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND: USE-UNLU

TDCS: 08-3/656,927

FOR A CEASE-FIRE AND FOR TRADE RELATIONS. NHU REPLIED NEGATIVELY

ON BOTH COUNTS. SUBSEQUENTLY MANELI DENIED THAT NHU HAD EVER

HINTED THAT MANELI SHOULD BE AN INTERMEDIARY BETWEEN THE GN AND

THE DRV. MANELI SAID THAT THE DRV COULD NEVER ACCEPT NEUTRAL I-

ZATION BECAUSE OF INTERNAL DRV CONDITIONS, THAT HIS DRV CONTACTS

DID NOT BELIEVE THE VIET CONG WOULD WIN THE WAR IN SOUTH VIETNAM,

AND THAT DRV PRIME MINISTER PHAM VAN. DONG WAS THE ACTUAL LEADER OF

NORTH VIETNAM.)

2. ON 23 SEPTEMBER 1963. MANEL I SAID THAT HE HAD NOT. SOUGHT A

: MEETING WITH NHU AND WAS RELUCTANT TO ACCEPT NHU'S INVITATION TO

MEET ON 2. SEPTEMBER. MANELI FURTHER EMPHASIZED THAT HE HAD HAD

•NO CHANCE TO CONSULT WITH HIS GOVERNMENT. BEFORE THE MEETING:

3. MANELI SAID THAT NHU TALKED ABOUT THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE

STRATEGIC HAMLET PROGRAM, MILITARY PROGRESS IN SOUTH VIETNAM, AND.

HIS REASONS FOR BEING ANTI-COMMUNIST: MANELI SAD THAT NHU DID

MOST OF THE TALKING WHILE MANELI CONFINED HIS CONVERSATION TO

SUBUECTS. OF INTEREST TO THE ICC. MANELI'S QUESTIONS AND NHU*S.;

ANSWERS FOLLOW:

A.. MANELI ASKED NHU FOR HIS. VIEWS ON DE GAULLE'S STATEMENT

ON VIETNAM. NHU SÄÏD THÄT HE HAD NOT SEEN THE OFFICIAL TEXT BUT

WAS FAMILIAR WITH THE PRESS ACCOUNT.

HE SAID THAT DE GAULLE WAS

SIMPLY CALLING FOR A RETURN TO THE ORIGINAL CONCEPT OR OBJECTIVES

OF THE GENEVA ACCORD OF 10S) AND WAS STROSING THE PROVISLONAL

SECRET

NO DISSEN ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

IN::

28400

PAGE

---

## Page 4

11

SECRET

(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND. USE ONLY

TDCSDB- 3/656,927

NATURE OF THE: PRESENT UNNATURAL DIVISION OF VIETNAM.

B. MANELI ASKED IF THE GN HAD CONSIDERED THE DRV SUGGESTION

THAT A CEASE-FIRE BE CONCLUDED.: NHU REPLIED THAT A CEASE-FIRE WAS

NOT POSSIBLE AT THIS TIME.

C: MANELI ASKED IF THE GVN HAD CONSIDERED HO CHI MINH'S

PROPOSAL THAT TRADE RELATIONS BE ESTABLISHED BETWEEN THE GUN AND

THE DRV WITHOUT REFERENCE TO POLITICAL DIFFERENCES: NHU REPLIED

THAT THIS WAS ABSOLUTELY OUT OF THE QUESTION.

4. MANELI DEPLORED THE IMPLICATIONS OF THE COLUMN BY JÖSEPH..

ALSOP WHICH ALLEGED THAT NHU HAD EXTENDED "EXTRAORDINARY COURTESIES"

TO MANELI AND THAT THE FRENCH GOVERNMENT. WAS: INVOLVED: IN FOSTERING

NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN THE GN AND THE DRV. MANELI DENIED. THAT NHU

HAD EVEN HINTED THAT HE WOULD LIKE TO USE MANELY AS A "CHANNEL OF

COMMUNICATIONS TO THE DRV.

..:1

• 5. PASSING TO OTHER MATTERS, MANELI: SAID THAT THE DRV COULD

NEVER ACCEPT NEUTRALIZATION BECAUSE OF INTERNAL STRESSES AND

IDEOLOGICAL CONDITIONS THERE. IN REPLY TO A QUESTION WHETHER HIS

DRV CONTACTS: REALLY BELIEVED THAT THEY WOULD. WIN THE WAR IN SOUTH

VIETNAM, MANELI PONDERED: FOR: A LONG TIME AND THEN SAID, "I DO NOT

THINK SO." MANELI ALSO SAID THAT: PRIME MINISTER PHAM: VAN DONG:

HELD REAL. POWER IN THE DRV AS HO CHI MINH WAS "GETTING QUITE. OLD."

6. (FIELD COMMENT:

(B) TALKED TO NHU ON:

LASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROL

SECRET

0-20, 126N DISS2A

NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKARQUNA USE CN

IN

28400-

PAGE

3

---

## Page 5

11

SECRET

(When Filled 1t7)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS;

TO FOREIEN DISSEM.

A MISTER ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY

TDCSDB-3/656,927

IN

28400

PAGE

6 SEPTEMBER AND OBTAINED A CONSIDERABLY DIFFERENT VERSION OF WHAT.

TRANSPIRED BOTH BEFORE AND: DURING THE NHU/MANELI MEETING; NHU

SAID THAT MANELI HAD MADE SEVERAL. EFFORTS TO SEE HIM BUT THAT HE

HAD REFUSED UNTIL ITALIAN AMBASSADOR: D'ORLANDI AND: THE INDIAN ICC

COMMISSIONER GOBURDHUN PERSUADED: NHU TO CONSULT WITH MANELI:.:

ACCORDING TO: NHU, MANEL I URGED NHU TO ENTER: INTO NEGOTIATIONS WITH

THE DRV; HE SAID THAT: PHAM VAN DONG HAD AUTHORIZED HIM TO ACT AS

THE INTERMEDIARY FOR SUCH NEGOTIATIONS... NHU: REPLIED TO MANELI,

THAT, WHILE DE GUALLE'S STATEMENT WAS INTERESTING, ONLY. COMBATANTS

IN THE WAR HAD THE: RIGHT TO: SPEAK AND ACT, THAT THE GVN WAS ALLIED:

WITH• THE UNITED STATES AND IT WOULD BE AN "IMMORAL ACT" TO EXPLORE

MATTERS WITH THE DRV WITHOUT AMERICAN KNOWLEDGE, AND THAT COMMERCIAL

RELATIONS WITH THE DRV WOULD ENTAIL INEVITABLE POLITICAL REPERCUSSIONS

AND LEAD TO A WEAKENING OF MORALE OF THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE ARMED ::

FORCES. NHÜ COMMENTED THAT HE HAD NO. "SECRET CHANNEL" TO THE DRV

BUT COULD COMMUNICATE: WITH THE DRV AT ANY. TIME THROUGH

GOBURDHUN OR MANELI: ACCORDING TO NHU, MANELI SAID. THAT THE GVN

WOULD SOON HAVE FOUR ENEMIES AGAINST IT, PRESUMABLY: INCLUDING. THE

U.S. NHU SAID! THAT HE REPLIED THAT THE GVN WAS ACCUSTOMED TO HAVING

MANY ENEMIES AND WOULD PREFER TO DIE FIGHTING RATHER THAN LIVE ON ITS KNEES

7. FIELD DISSEM: STATE (AMBASSADOR LODGE.) USMAÇV (GENERAL

HARKINS, CINPAC PACELT AREAC PAÇAF

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

NO FOREIGN - DISSEM-

NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND 15G 001

---

