# 176-10036-10008

## Page 1

176-10036-10008

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10008

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR : DOS

FROM : Leopoldville

TO : Rusk

TITLE : Bangui for Governor Williams

DATE : 4/24/1962

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Congo Cables; restriction information innacurate/missing; box 1

---

## Page 2

INCOMING TELEGRAM

38-L

Action

AF

Into

SS

SR

G

SP

L

SB

EUR

IO..

P

IOP

INR

RMR

Department of Stave Cos

SÉE SANITIZED

17/06

CONFIDENTIAL

Control:

Rec'd :

15493

April 24,

9:07am

1962

FROM: Leopoldville

TO:

Secretary of State

NO: 2685, April 24, 11 a.m.

NIACT

ACTION DEPARTMENT 2685, INFORMATION USUN NIACT 1829,

LONDON 1157, PARIS 1194, BRUSSELS 1685, BANGUI 26

BANGUI FOR GOVERNOR WILLIAMS

Reference, EMBTEL 2683 to Department.

Since I read änd gave no official cognizance.of Adoula

speech (procured by CAS) I called on Khiary who surely

drafted it.

Said I heard Adoula was going to make declaration and

recalled Khiary's concern that Adoula might turn to

Egypt: and Ghana (EMBTEL 2665) •

Khiary got out text of speech and we chewed over pertinent

paragraphs. Khiary defended them strenuously. I said I

was afraid of their effect on supporters of Adoula in US,

regretted the tone of fait accompli, and said new line seemed

to mark a turning from UN concept toward bilateralism.

Khiary minimized all this, said Adoula had to say this much

to still his more radical

colleagues, denied any fait

accompli. We discussed entire US, UN, Congo interactions

at length and with energy. I left hoping Khiary would at

least change tenses from past to future and mode to conditional.

Khiary still adament.

I also said consultations now going in NY between Department,

Gardiner and UNNY and US seeking for means to render its aid

CONFIDENTIAL more

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS

- PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

-2- 2685, April 24, 11 a.l. from Leopoldville

more efficacious. Adoula's remarks might interfere with

these consultations. This observation seemed to have

more effect than any other on khiary.

He has this minute telephoned me to say he thinks "it

will be arranged"•

GULLION

Note: Advance copy AF 4/24/CWO-JRL

CONFIDENTIAL

---

