# 176-10037-10366

## Page 1

176-10037-10366]

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10366

RECORD SERIES : Personal Papers of Richard Goodwin

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Memo for the Record Re: Meeting with Manuel Ray

DATE : 5/12/1961

PAGES : 6

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Goodwin Papers: Cuba, Covert Activities, Box 4. Box 7.

---

## Page 2

EYES ONLY

SECRET

to .

130881-2554

12 May 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT

Meeting with lng; Manuel Ray

PARTICIPANTS: ing. Manuel Ray

Ernesto Betancourt

Rogello Cloneros

Ray did not return to Washington until early morning on Friday,.

12 May 7961 Bo called me at oroo from the airport te voo unable

to a definite hour for us to get together due te the fact that he was..

expectins as éppotment with a person he did not same some time:

during the morange, He later called e number of times froma the Hotel

Ambassador toladvied me that ho ttul had had no word on ble appotata

mon. AL 115 Mo Betancourt called to day that he woo with Ray

Ana "Dugeblo (Rogelle Cieneros) and couldive get together

1 euge

gected they crive out to the Clatendon Hotel Court on Wilson Boulevard

where I had

kon's

room tor holding our meeting.

They are ved in

Betahcou tia cas de approvimatoly aso poon umeland we See

vent to the nearby Hogate Rectaarant On wison Boulevard for lunch.

before ve got down to the busineer of the prospectue.

Duples lunch we dig not diocung the plan but Taid take the op

portunity to atrees in a most eertous way the beed sos absolute sec.ocy

ship agreed on the need for tight security

Ave alecuated the prospectus

Ine sole seneral sude, Tetro led the importance of bolne able to prongat

EYES ONLY

SECRET:

---

## Page 3

EYES ONLY

SECRET

to the proper people at the earltent possible time a carefully thought-

out plan of action which would set forth clearly the objectives to what

the project hoped to achleve; a statement of the problem; the strengtha

of the Castro regime following the fil-tated invaslon; the status of the

underground and ite morale and capablittest the extent of internal

support for and discontent with the regime, etc., etc.

I also spoke of the need for describing the kind of activitise

which to Ray persolation planed to engage in and the broke and

capabillion which they have or can acquire to do the job.

The need for

esplatning the relationehip and coordination of the plan with the Revolu

tonery Councit was discused at some length.

russested that he laclude In the plan an iteratration of the kinde

öt support which he would expect un to supply Immediately an well an the

kind and, quantity of eupport which would be requlted of us as the profect

developed.

O. Teleo cussested that the plan include thei dews on how U.S.

Hialeonland coordination could bert be worked out, hot funde woulabe

tunneled into the project, what commo and other trening would be te-

quirodi nether UNS real estate" would be needed, ete-

Bay outled pome of ble thoughte regarding ble proposed plan

of action.

According to him il contemplater action ta thyce broad ticide:

(0) Underground activity r principally sabotage a la the

urban arene

(6) Graduat bulldup largely through Clandestine fultra-

Mons of gmall bodler of men p ol guesthla forces in mounrain,

ous and defendible pretes,

(e) A psychological wartare campaign wiust Cuba and abroad

timed at discrediung Castro and au the same time providing the

people ol Cuba comoching to light for

rules out of helplan the creation of another Invasion army but dog con-

template the tzaining of soups of perhaps up to 150 men in other frtendly

EYES ONLY

SECRET

---

## Page 4

EYES ONLY

SECRET

countries of South America (he mentioned Venezuela as a posesbility)

and sald be would explore the poseibility of basing maritime operatione

in non-V. S. porte:

9 Ray paid some means, other than Swan Island, must be found

for reaching the Cuban population by rado broadcaste. He ppoke of

the poesibilty of short wave broadcaste from Venezuela and utilisa-

(on of a commercial station In Miami which he understande can be

Clearly heard in Cuba,

of Latin America (he bald a successful organisation has beon formed.

In Puerto Rico) and of sending qualified representatives to those Latin

American countries where there to Soviet diplomatic representation to

contact acudent and labor groupe and leaders in an effort to present to

them the true picture of the sorry otate of studente, workero, and

Intellectuals in Castedle Cuban

11 Ray le also interested to the poesibtlity of putting out a Newe

Lette winder MND ponsorship which would discuse various aspects e

the Cuban pictureland set forth plane los Cuba after the fall of Castro.

He thought ouch a newe letter could go a long way toward, correctins.

metakos Luprections among American anverely protossore and la

other gircles on to the true nature of the Castro regimel He pointed

to the rocent letter from 63 Harvard professore which was recently

published in the N?, Times an a horrible examplet ao to how mise

Informed even univereity profestore are on present day Cuba:

12. When the ataculions sot around to the need for conducting

operatione at leect funder the umbrelle* of the Revolutionary Council.

and the neod for obtaling Dy, Mrole coneurrence belore the U.s.

would be able to support

any operation: le we obvlona that neither.

Ing Ray nor Me Betaneourt holde a bigh impression of the Counch

Both feel that there li strons possibility that the close public

ident ilication of the Council With the recent lavaston may sell have

decredited the Counclito such an estent there commande no support

or respect within Cuba sS

For the sake of argument they, word wiling to concode that the:

polileel advantaged of metnathing the Council for the purport of forcieg

EVES ONLY

SEGRET

---

## Page 5

EYES ONLY

SECREU

unity of the various odle groups may well outweigh ite other obvdous

shortcomingo. However, both feel, and lar. Betancourt wae quite

emphatle on thie point, that the Councll an a body ie not capable of

directing clandestine actions against Castro and as a matter of fact

te opposed to any further efforts at overthrowing Castro by sabotage:

and other subversive actions since they are completely "sold" on

the theste that Castro can only be removed by direct U.S. callitary

action and therefore a continuation of Cuben underground activities.

can only result in needless and futtle lose of life. In the fact of thie

attitude. Ray dald he does not expect to recolve much encouragement

for ble plan from the Council, although he le fairly confident that

Dr. Miro e approval can eventually be obtatned...

Mir, Betancourt thought that a workable solution might be found:

to their problem if the Council would agree to concern itoelt excluelvely

with (a) the current tack of untfying the oppontion, and (b) Plannlog for

Ite future assumption of power an the provicional government. Under

ho arrangement. Operatione aimed at the downfall of Castro could be

entrusted to those leadere and sroupe teuch as the MRP, MRRy end

possibly the MDC) bich have both the forete and the winey do the

Job/M. Ray thought that il right be teacible to create an operatione

planning board of command among the groups with demonstrated anecte

and hua vold unge courary duplication ind confusion and make possible:

overall plannins it was obvdone, bowever, that he would prefer to act

autonomoubly in the execution of his program.

Mr. Rey vas vory critical of Artime and elalmed he whe le posedecton;

of outcent Macto lo convince him that Artime, in collunton with eles

menta of the campe, were planning to eliminate the MRP end ta leadere.

from the Picture, when the invaston succeeded. He said he "nowe"

that Artime no being (Inancially eupported by wealthy en Batiotianos:

at the slamtare

going it alone. He says that the Council Le composed of good Cent bu

the people of Cubaria

the comel

(ally dearted van o good one the progresalvel aspecte al theip oclan

Mon vote forced on the Come by to CAme mong i not and on

the true feelings of the majoriry ol the

EYES. ONLY

SECRET

---

## Page 6

EVES ONLY

SECRET

+3:

Cuban people are not likely to want to xiak their lives on the bania of

promises made by the present membership of the Council. He feels

that acceptance of the Couach would be Improved by adding to ite

memberchip two or three more people whose names would be signi

ficant and meaningful to the Cuban people.. He did not name any

specifio candidates,:

14. Mr. Ray let me read a 13 or 14 page report which ho bad

just: recelved from the MRP coordinator in Cuba (Reinol Gonzalea)

which painted a dreary ploture of conditions in Cuba since the fallure

of the invasion; was critical of the inclusion of Batistianos and ninos

bonitos! in the invaston force; conveyed the atrong feeling that the

Cubans had been betrayed by the Americans: and Indicated that while

the MRUP organiration was still pretty much Intact physically, morale

was almost completely battered. lidr. Ray aaid ho would provide me

a sanitizedicopy (thore were nôme operational and personal decatte)

of the report for our information:

16 In Mew of thie report from withln Cuba, Nr. Ray said that

he wil wich to defer rubritting hle plan for our conalderation until

he lo solo to recolve word from Cuba concernins the capabilties,

willingnees and fossibility of carrying out some of the activities he

has in mind, He euld it to daelése to eubult a program of action 16

the human elemento to carsy it out are lacking o> completely demoral.

12ed. He chouch he right be able to present lie prospectas within;

epproximately con day. He batd naturally he will not give the peopte

Inalde any Indiestion that he hea been decusing a plan of actlon with

16 ged Ray to connider submitting at least a proliminamy an

admitedly tentative prospectus at this time based on the assumption.

bottet that thts would not be practicable and reiterated the need for

Pelor evaluation of the strongch and morale of bit rolloulne

I Ray asked concerning the detainees at McAllen, Veras, and

wonderod u they bave been released-Ho Vue told charne far acti

know they are stut undor detention. lite paid Mil Goodwin had taken

shot names and promised to look tato the matter

Betencoun

EYES ONLY

SECRET

---

## Page 7

EYES ONLY

SECRET

said he would check atractly with Mar. Goodwin so their statue.

18 I lovited Mr, Ray and/or Mr. Betancourt to call me over

the woekend in case either, should want to discues the matter further.

I had the feeling that Mr. Betancourt was personally in favor of sub-

mitting now a plan covering "short term" needs of their organization

and it may be thet such a paper will be submitted after he has an

opportunity to talk with Mr, Ray ln privates

Diots ibutiont

Original Co2 A/DOPIA

1 - C/WHD

AC/VH/4 &

1S-M

not Ray 201

EYES ONLY

SECRET.

..?:.

---

