# 176-10030-10422

## Page 1

176-10030-10422

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10030-10422

RECORD SERIES : Sorensen Papers

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :

FROM : Schlesinger, Jr.

TO : President Kennedy

TITLE : Memo to President CIA Reorganization

DATE : 6/30/1961

PAGES : 15

SUBJECTS : CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : Memoranda

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 8/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Sorensen Papers: Classified Subject Files 1961-64 Box 47, CIA,

Document 1a.

NW 49061

DocId: 3262264₫

Page

---

## Page 2

SECRET

SEÉSANITIZED

VERSION

N44-84-149

ARRBIC.C. 9/02

June 30, 1961

TO THE DETERIORATION

MLNGRANDUM FL. THE PRESIDENT

SURJECI: CLA ASUrE RiBALIOn

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE , KENNEDYS

U:

OF..THECORIGI

NAL®

I submit the following viewa as une uno moriced to USS during the

war and served as a periodie CLA convultant in the yenre ulace..

Un balance, ClA's record has probably bean very good.

In the

resure ul clandestine operations, the triumpha of an lutalligence

agency are unknown*; all the pabile bears about (os sbould bear

about) are lts errore. Bul, again la the naturo of the caso, do

agency dedicated to clandestine activity can aflord damned law

visible orrors.: The important thing to recogains today, In my

judgront, lo thai the CIA, as al presens semad and constlizzod, has

about uned up lis quota. Bn margin lor future assor to practiçally

• Bon-exiatent

Cas more CLA debacle will shake taith considerably

in l'S palicy, at bome do well as abroad, And, until ClA de visibly

reorganised, is will (as la the Algerian inotanca) be widely blared sor

developments of which 1s le whally lanocent

The argumen of this mersorandum la that ClA's troablo casi be tracço

to the autonomy with which the agency has been permitted to operate

acting of dora pera to are mata cangel, 1 plad daco

the relationship beemeon opprestors and polley! (3) en lundaquate,

pur should be -= a gross and repented CLA Calling has been ite

occasiocal readiness to priccumb lo the lomptatione of laverable

pablicity. Tho Guatemalas and irantes operatione wore almost

sullifted by the Dood of telf-congratulatory peblicity hieh followed

Cham (0. 0. 0

so the articles by Richard and Glidy, Harkness.

Mysterious -Dologi of CLA.

"Baturday Lvening Port Oct 30, 5

13, 1954) 33

NW 49061

DocId: 32622644: Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNEDY TBRARY QUE TO THE DETERIORATION

OF THE ORIGINALS

conceptlos of the saintion hip between eporations and intelligence..

The nomorandum si so 203800ts "ya la whies somo of than prob

loms cas perhaya be illevinted.

L CLA ANODOSSY

CiA conducta threo : ais forma al secret nost, sinodontin intelle.

active call tea one a tile tat a polaro aditamy.

activities.

The sensong for the sutonomy are biesorieal.

Whoa CLA begas, the State Department, otill thinklag tee much in

terms ol ita traditieni misstons la foreiga dilalis, lomkod on thie

now venture with ausplelos and rescunced the oppertantly to seize

(1rm control al CIA operation. I de nee, lor ermemplo, try le

establiah any eflectiva system al clearince for CIA setivitoss und

some ambassadore frankly prefersed nor to taen what ClA van up to

la thair conatrico. Altor 1953 tho lact that the Secretary el State and

the Director ol Central Intelligence wore brother. farther confirmed

'CIA's indopendence !rom mupervicion by Strte Department donls."

In the meantime. CIA grew ta nine and power. Daring phe fledes le

begin in sors arero to outatrip lhe Stato Departmene in the pallty el

le personnel...: Partly bocuse CLA puse higher marlos and onca

more perhapa becauso Allen Dullos save bla people conragaono pro-.

ruction asalaal dc Carthyltn atencil. CIA mes able to astract mad hald

a large number al ablo and indopendent minted mes, Tha mato 18"

added brilliant activiets to lin moti, the more samentum i30 operatio

donelopod, and the greater tale il played la the intelason el palley...

east diplomaess contacts

SECIET

NW 49061• DocId: 32622641 Pade

3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

1a

f'os 183 pArt, ClA dud developed a whole nosos el funetlans paral-

leilag already existing funciono of the Stato Departenen, and al

Rhe Leenso Loparti ant sa well. Today ll has lle omn politieni

dosia and military malle; 1i bas in elfeet lla owa forelga servica:

18 has (or bes had) le oun cembas forceas. A oven boo do oun als

force.

is anual indget la about-

_Biene thas al the Stato Depart-

ment. The contemporary CLA posonsses many el the charnerosinties

ol a state wichin a state.

IPHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNEDY.

¡TARARY DUEITO THE- DETERIORATION

DF. THE ORIGINAL;

Il. Doctrine

Though ClA's autonu ay developed los hinterleal reanon, ll has boen

able to endure boesure there is so doctrine governing our conduci al

clandestine operatiene.

The problem al docieine for CIA la the excent

to which its various cinadestine miovions are compoublo with a free

and opes soctery.

iz 18 idle lo argue thil, bocauce te Communiato can do ench-and-rech,

vo are freo to do ll 100. Communiom la a creed muturod la cos.

apiracy; and the woode polos al Conmunia social and pollical or gaii.

sadon le la make couspiracy ellecttre, Hl Highttag lira vien llro mears

contrmesing the Ireccoma traditionnily enjoyed by Amerleano la order

lo give more freedo- lo ClA, no ena sertenely untos to do that.

Y'et

I do por feel that no have taled sigor onaly to thtat throngh the llinito

which the malasananes al an open society places en alcree acltuity.

Vintil thie de dono, (IA'a sole will sos be eleerly defleed and under-

atood, The probles which mun be laced las wine sort of everet.

activily la conolatent vish the provervalion ol a freo sectal erderi

We mus bogi, ! behere. Dy accepring the thet thas the Unteed Seasee

will continue lo ba a sation la which politeiana will nat questiona nad

mate speechan, reportere mill dig ous uterter, seipapere will pub-

Llan aditoriale, ladivianalo, ditron by promptlago ol conseteneo, will

biari ous ibingo harmael to lha maro, and do od. Ve do mes ilet io.

¿hango inese chiage and coula no do no vithone volating the arsence

al our noclety....

Thees things maie up the tramework la which CLA

must operate.

Is abort, shay constitute the problam; sod. ae

Ceneral Marshall unod lo say, "There's no pelas in lightlag thi

problem.

CLOREN

10 5+90

---

## Page 5

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNEDVE

BRARY DUE TO

THE DETERIORATION

OF THE ORIGINALI

SECRETI

la

Thera follows fro 110, I would think, the enneluaton that sneret

principlea

and pracucas of our ocial, lod thos dny canno to be

erminBibla thea tboir difect la lo corrupE thor prEscipLO del

practica!.

Lach form ol secre: activity presenta lla own problem Clandestine

intalligence collectio:, hao been a sraditional funetion al lha satona.

ntate.

#s ralos and vasgos are lairly well establlehad In the

main, esplonage, Il conducted with diecretton, ebould present su.

frent problem.

Howover, whon conducted with an open checkbook

and a broad mandast. even espionage ca bogio to pur ne taot ine

limita of sectet netarity la as open society. I cenalder later, fur

exaraple, le questiia al the Conirolled Amerlena Sourco (CAS) sind.

whesher tho overdoinz el CAS 1a nol beginniag do barra othas ne: 88

al the governoent.

Covert political operatione present a trichier prole, Ocension

arlos whes li la socostary lo rabataine nemepapars, politiciano anc

organantiono la scher coontrio.

But corrupilen al the political tifo

ol another ration lo nos a repensiblity le le lightly anamod

monos whather CLA tna noe done tos maca el this for the joy of is

only Decano te problema of come mane ero se mach moro dilicat.

lo general, 1 mould suegoer thas ay noerre operation uhone muccess io

depennat os the supproccion al nome, en lying to Compronon and

journmileto and on the decaption el tho electorito abould de undertakas

only when lia criola lo so conaldarablo thai the palme peally mem to

ore e e da sera do le al prodo dos the tese te pre

cano be mado for tie cetry.

In whore, whon confronted with a propend pretler, me mutl not only

ani wbother the oparation la lachalcally fondible la tle con termose

mauri ant mbothor ito paccono regulrão our open coclety co be la dur

portous way faion to leo oma principlos.

ІН3 ЛОПА

meritA.

ooad

Dan9

---

## Page 6

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNÈDY LIBRARY QUE TO THE DETERIORATION

OF THE ORIGINAL.

SECRET

5.

III, Sporalions and alisy

Clandostine activilir should be senessed nor anly da the contenl

el sheir relatonahip o as opes coclety bus ades ta the entrena al thais

relationahip to Unitai Staros forolga polley.

CLA operations save de boan hole etfecttrely mbardinate to U.s.

foreiga policy.

1. Clandestina satelligence callection la, by charter, free fran

State Departmnem contral. This fact experes Amardes fortiga palicy

to a muititudo ol embessonmenta uben CIA 1a discuverod recrultino

agenta os developing sourcoa is a friendly contry. Tha recent

Singapore caso, uber CIA, vilhos soller to the Coaral General,

¡riod to MubVeJi a sammbes el the special Branch al tha Sina pero

Police providos as lastretiva espla. Altos complientens el

judiesons complesity, inciading as anotopo to subjaes the secTadt eo

1 le-ceioctor lesl, ll suraod out that the socrutt lnd long since

Injorned bis supertore el the CIA approach and uns leeding CLA

1ozo 8 trap which, when sprung, predaced consideralle embessaes-

mans to relationa botrar lha. Us and the slagaporo goveramens.

Ibore bave boon troubles el a'comparable port 1a Falletas and la

Japan (ubere a group al Calaara Matlepala vero snateled luto senobo

1O MOTt LI A CLA-NSA operatios).

CLA bas said that in anch ergos, sellbor the Embadoy nor the Dapar. -

Dens la tachlagios do serroally infertros el tala tupo el eperaston.

Is abort, so one inome bom many perandal problema ler 1il fertign

polley - and how much potentel Irletten with Irlonlily inter a tre

belag crented as the serent by CLA alandestina totalliganco operaciono.

surely there la an argumens fos permitting sento to dactle ubachar tao

prada a o o fala e por a reta o e ta telo de do raio.

istolligenco operations should plainly de elenrad beth with tha Depart-

ment al sento and (pare foz escoptlamal inataness and on afrontar al

the Secretary ol Slata) with the local U.S. Ambassador,

SACHER

• Pare

---

## Page 7

SECRET:

• 1c

2. Covert pollisial operatione lechnically roguire Stato

Department clearaact.

In proctice, however. CiA has men been

•ablo to seiso the inisistive la maya malea reduca stare'o sole almoe:

ọ that of a rubber dia

Thia has been partly le cinsaquenca el sha rupertor ditre and

activiam el CLA pertinel, espocially au compared with lhe dullders:*

of State Lieparticers serporal.

For enample, when men come to ci

with the annigament i developing covort poltleal campilgao or

orgarising coups or prepartag for paramilitary unsfase, these men

THE KENNEDY LIBRARY DUE TO THE DETERIORATION

naturally tall to work with legenuity and sonl; tbey probably foul stat

they are not earntag their pay mions, asy, they ergasino no many

coupe na possible.

The concopt of 'contingency planing' bas

legitimatizat the coucrero preparation ol operations aul promurabi;

in a hypothetical stage: people did not as llret sotice thas 'cantlagency

planning,' when carried to the stage ol reeruitment and tralalag ol

personne, creates a vented interest which eften trantlerme comin-

sescies into apparans necassilles. Thus, ll a grous le satembled

and revved up on a contingency basis, then the dallare to carry the

profoct shrough (18 ln argued) will davite the disappointment and

alienation al the group; ne the presaure laerennon ta fallem through

on what bad atarted si a pare apocalation: Tale man a clintral lactoi.

OF THE ORIGINAL

ol courto, la the Cuban deciolos - the leet that ellebandmont el the

Cuban force ls Guntersala just seamal lo ernese too many problems and

embarrassanto.

Heving entered inte relations with porsonalitice ta

foreign lande. CIA has sometimes seemed to feel that we munt thoro

after do protry much what they mat s ar ales they will blow soeurity

on oven go 0ves to the Commandata, The approsed has made ue on.

occaeden the prisonare el our ows agenta, o

(PHOTOCOPIED BY

→We beeome poldonore of our ageste la anncher conse too. Jas Cutati.

"piaoda leanes ibe strung impredatos that CIA La sos able to control its

on lon-loval operaiivee.. ¡bile the ClA people in Washlagten are pras

od exceptionally higs quality, the mas attracted to feld jobe are some-

elmes tougà and even vielous pouplo motivered by driver el that osa

and sut necesarily la polttice or even moral sympathy will the purpuens

of the eperatton.

Such actions an locking up the soupetoniry Counct.

such enterprises se Operation 10 la Minal where CIA spants reportect

tralned Cubans in methodo al torture,: such opteadas is the detention ind

so on under CIA spontorahip mila which CLA n Vasblagton la ouy disly

acquaimled

SECUTE

IN 49061 DocId: 32622644 Page. 7

---

## Page 8

Wh::168,

It has roast 100 the he state Department, chen appelped of ma

operation only in its uses dragod, 1s undes greas pressuro lo

endorse tho operalle, an alrandy monind beesuse al the alleged

evil consequences & exercining a vote. I well remember Tem

lians's romark the say the docialon vas mado to go abond os Cuba:

"I would never have ivored intelating this operation, bul, diace 18

has gone as lar as lt had, I do not think we cas rial calliag il dll."

Moreover, At a tims whea thare da incrosing premium on setirier..

Starn, uhan it quanture CLA operations os intuialives, easta ilsell in

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNÈDY LIBRARY DUE TO THE DETERIORATION

# prissy, siusy, najutiva rolo. The advocnto el clanduetian setivities

neome 'tough' and ronlisties the opponent has to larake such intangibles

no the reputation of lin Unked States; world pubile opiator, "What

do De say is lbe Unisod Nationa?", ole., and seemo bapeloraly

idealinte, legallati and "ooti."

The result of CIA'S indelative la covert polluleal operaslen has boes

lo erants altunsions alich have ferced polley en the State Departiant.

This mus not tha orijual idea behind CIA. Al Allen Dulled wrote

in him 1947 memorarium to the Senate Armed Servleos Committ. e.

"To Central Intalligenco Agenty should have nothing to do with palis;.

OF THE DRIGINAL®

Tel, la she yearo alaco, CLA hao, la ollect, 'mado' pelley la many

parta al the world, A numbes el soverumente alll la power know

Rant they bare eves tren targets of ClA attempta as iverthrow - not

a s2210 el ondad calculesed to stinialite islandly foolings tomerd tha

United States..

a coasso, du a primo cmmplo..

The experience messents that the presens ayutem by wales CLA potifica

State el a projected covert opesatien la landeganto lo pretoes US

Interests.

There unil be semo mens by which Sinto ens ho Inforcad

el sueh operations at an eurly enough stage to affect the conception

and preliminary planting al the operasion. Otherine ClA wll can-

finio lo control stato ulta propostiiona having potential Impact an

foreigo palley bus at too late a polus to subjort thas tmpact to rosuoo-

able conisel.

3.

SECRET

---

## Page 9

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNEDY LIBRARY DUE TO THE DETERIORATION

OF THE ORIGINAL.

S21

NN 49061

DocId: 32622644

Page

. 9

---

## Page 10

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNEDY LIBRARY DUE TO THE DETERIORATION

OF THE ORIGINAL®

--.

la.

90.70.

4. Paramultary vartaro, I gabos, lo rogarded la rare quartera

as a puroly rocholenl matte, annuly descrable from polley sad there-

fore a propos functioa el the Department of Datinal. Yet Mere is

Mimost Do CIA funerdon more pocularly dependent on the political

contess than parmilitary fare.

There aro severa ransons for this. For ens think, a paramdlitary

operation la la 1ta sature a large and netributable operation und theret;.

as suggested above, clanher with the propportions of deir opera

society, (These connidersions nond sol apply, hovenes, to the

Brining of, my, the foull VietnIne in porTle elles or to tho

suppert of alrendy asturns guerrilla settvilion) Tos another, the

moral and political price al direct paramilitary falinto lo sente lor

Commaniets, when they ottenlate parasailitary settrily, are

doing what the world epict free them: whin we do th we appear

lo bally oar own prolumed principles and therefore cannot milord to

compound dellagency by delore Moreover, de the rotons Algarias

oplode showed, ince we convince the world that me are committed to a

paramilitary donner, me mill so blamed for all murte ni elinga.

men to pontala dento, me commo lighely mutto thor all ani clone tho

beaka, The Communal, en the othor bani, sure no seruplos about

NW A9061 DenTd: 72622644

Pade 10

---

## Page 11

HOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNEDY LIBRAR

OF THESORIGINAL?

DUEl TO THE DETERIORATION

SECRET

10.

siersovor, guerilla martare la lought, much moro thes sallitary

mon ordinarily reelina, ln la ieleclogleel context, The perrilla

succrede when his program enliute gracerous support and it in

vury dilficult Indané to bout him wbea the contryuide de with hirs.

Van Mock told Conoral Marahall in 1946 not to worry abont tha

guerrillas 1o indoners: "We are sandlag 50, 000 pres out thore

and will clean the piration up is the three manthe." hershell,

who bad had experie: ca fightlog guerrillas in the Failipples,

replied, "Il won't le do easy.

You will find that thay will blood

you to death.".' Cypium and Algeria illuntrate the difficuisy al over-

conilig suerrilla re ristzace through sheer weight al milttary force.

Serious guerrilla roverents have bees deleted oniy three tired airce

the end of sno seconi viorid tar: la Grenco, beenion Tito's delectica

ciosed ine sortbara vorder; da the Failipplaas and is Malaya.

Rhe last two capos the jusrrilla seniotance endad bocaudo al lise

combinatios & political and military constormanures. the strugie

in walaye, as Field harshal Templer undersbood (and nuid), was.f::

the mindo and hearta al the people; ll Roselore involved nor erdi.

paramiliary operations but a vast educational program, organization

al trado untons, polideal reform and an offer el nutional independence.

Il the guerrillas pover lies la his sova clicy progres, to Sorer

lies la part to meeting the saeda which enable the guitTilli to rouse

the sonatryside.

"v'Ithout a pollical goal," ureto liso Ten-tuas.

"guerrilla mariare nust fall, as ll munt l 11a poltleal objectives do.

not colacide with the sipiraleno of the people and ll their oympatty.

cooperation end a1t1otance carnal be gained," He aldad, "Do wo

mans the support of the masso? Il ua do, in mint go among the

manses; arouse them to acttulsy? concern eureelves with that wina?

and wao."

cust thoretoro bo metjected to close ind carefal poltileai onoreight

s probably should be rotairod in a reconnitures CLA rather thi

kramerred to Dellence.

GEORETI

DocId: 32622644 Pade 11

---

## Page 12

À TA

TO: THE DETERIORATION

5. How lo Enta: lish Polloy Contral? Here I wender whether lbe

Eritich experience: ight sor be al value.

The notablo fontare of tho

Exilimb intelligance veem la the determination to hoop clendoetire

Dellulty under airte, ioreign Ullica contral. Thia control in achiered

in s number al way

a) Secret imollignaco Sorvice (MI-6) Muell opermen under

the direction of io Joins Intelligence Committor, shies buo a

F'orign Cilica i nalrman (until receutly Sir Patrich Dean, wha

in now the Briti, reprenemative di the UN) nad which includes

the Service Inti ligence diroctors and suprementarived of the

Coloain! C1llce and le Commonwealth Relatone Ollice nn well

an the Chief of s.

1) bando pollical vastaro directivos an ertanted, sot

by SIS, but by lug Informanion Resentch Departenen la lhe

Foreiga Cilice, viten io canoultation vith an interleprtmentl

Working Group u1 mtarantonal Comunint Fronta, and under

the ultimate carrol of the Suporintending Voler Hocrutary ol

the Pormaneul : ales Secrotary'" Dupertment la the feweign

Clfico.

e) SIS covere political actien campalgna muel not anty con.

form to Feraler Silen Airmilivon but min Do elmmral with Che

ponopolato Fortes Otico prosranteni dena.

PHOTOCOPIED BỲ

THE KENNEDY

OF. ITHE-ORIGI

tan on the World Tonth Foutum.

Calal, and Taralga Offico affictalo vorno tomo al duty la $13

sections.

Dopertaest

RET

NH 49061- DOCId: 32622641: Page: 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

BY THE KENNEDY LTERAR

OFTHE DRIGINAL®

TO: THE DETERI

ORATIO

12.

enforced by directára, by Stare Dopertnen ehalrmoschip ol

morklog groupo, ara by the dofutration el Stare Depi

ortandr

persomé! inso the t-elligence agaucy.

Cbulously tbis set-o would sos sucered, homovet, uiono the

State Lepartraezt ilesll vero prepased lo ovurcoma les imbred

aatito al dlilusion, agativian nad delay and to tako n flrm and

paxporsíul grip os ino ettentioo

IV. Sperationo anc intolllgein

The relattouship bermen aperationd and intalllgence ruimes partier.

Japly perpleziag queation.

'Intelligence' mneluduo tue meparabie

activitles: elandeerim cellections and reunarch, aanlyula and

evaluation. Tbe lirot deelo with that amall portien el sem iatalli.

gance procured by sactet means (Ais. Dulles antlmated in 194% tbaa

"a propes abalyols ol tho terelligenco abtalnabto by. • overt.

sorrial, nnd abovotosré mueans neald supply ns witl ovn DO percent.

1 ahould estirrato, of tso infermation ruqalrad los the gutdasco ol our

natlanzi policy'); the rocond lavatres the colletien and latespretaticr

al all forma ol Intelligenco, bouevor abtatrod mid the produttlos oé

ontimalid

Jodor iba britlas nyateza, clandontine colloctien la indrasted ta the

secrei intelligenco Service, Ton ronsares, analyelo and oethmating

fanetien la locared 1s tbe Taralgs Ottlco Renortch Departnasse.

t'ndor tbo Ámezicas oyotora, CLA bns resposutblltty tor sock

elantiellne colloctien and remnerch ind enmlyulo. The Blath Depiiri-

men'" Berenu al Intalligance and Recenfch aleo hes soe

posduo) dieo heo aecelere a

lor acceptanco or rojoetion.

ia the Untted Stales tint role hns bern auumed by CLA

T4 •49061 DöcId: 32622644: Page 13:

---

## Page 14

SECRET

TO' THE DETERIORATIO

PHOTOCOPIED BỲ THE KENNEDY LIZERAR

OF THE ORIG

The argument agalas: lacorporating the research and estirate

function la State ma nade by Dolles la 1917: "For the propos

judging al ide sisualion is any foreiga country li la important char

Infermation scould la proconned by as agency "hone duty it 1o lo

moigh facts, and lo irai conclusioni froni those facto, wieboat.

hanlas silho: the lorea os the conclusion moped by the Inevitablo

and evon propor providices of the men whom duty lt is to determine

polley and who, havisy once determined a policy, are 1oo lirely so

be blind lo say facts ubich solght terd to prove she polimy lo bo

faalty."

Proeinely the came gument can be uned wha agun effect aguinat

the incorporation al he rearch and entimo funeton is CIA ..

Lo, ll lligence in too closely connectod with opertion, thes

thone committed to s articulns operation will tod to enloct out the

Intelligence wich valentos the operation

Obviouly born arg riest conclude in a care for the enabliahreat of

a fairly toropendom eseurch and entirate group. Bul. 1l the Ris

sroup lo too independent, one ruso into the opponite danger: that le.

that neither policy ios operation mill bo robetul to noguate

intelligence checks.

to guble sut ep sedan operate load to pro tool eatero:

Caban epiralton oraded systemate intelligenco sudant. The la.

al the Culm operator The Olico dl Naton! Emits ms ver

netod to coinmost on the innoumpllos, los erasplo, that diaccintoni

had ranchad the potis in Cuba where a succonful landing operasten.

wuld provel uartetog bohnd Me limpo and Aufootno trun to

ostimate al lhe stnse al epinter li Cube from that in maich the opera.

don ns barol Thoro edured, la short the statentons astuntion

NIH

19061: DocId: DocId:32622644: Page 14

---

## Page 15

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNEDY LIBRARY DUE

" OF THE ORIGINAL."

THE DETERIORATION

shat knowledge of the subno operalion, haunted la siami bare

by asy sunter of le -leval agente la lie operation branch of ClA,.

was dented so eves no top officiale el the intulligunce bennet. Iho

Esreau of Intelligence and Rouses ol th Departmen A State

know oven loes abou, the Cuban operation.

The problem, then, is to have an IkE freup suffledently independori

of buth policy an eutrations lo rentet the presnare to male the casa

ser' vested idesa an interests - yur efficiently close to be ablo lo

subjact projected anerationa or pelieton to the mout tatense and

searching acrutizy-

Vinere could this g'uup le loested? Il the CIA mere to become

mutordlato lu Stats. an it-ó i lo the Foreign Ollies, then the Ei...

become

function migns be vinod is a coordinate anbagency, somebat inde.

pondent of both Stay and CLA, yes elosely eennected with both in de.:

•Co-day operasions. Ibe RAF. aubagency would racelve lutelligence

150m CIA sad frem: late, so well as from the cosviços and, al course.

: 180m public sources. I would represent, ln eliter, a fuelon il ClA/ir!

and Stata/ Intalligence and jeseared. I might mino take over certal.

el the nervice functiona now confided to CIA philorraphle iaterpre..

talone blograplice data, lorelga broncones mentortag, overt collec.

tion, mapo, etc. T'hero mighs de in additten a Joins Intalligence Ecara

with ropresontatives irom all the Intelligence agences sad vita a

State Dupartmont of Thira Houre Chime

V. Conclusion.

The argument of this on

corandm implies a fairly drantle roastars.

mans of our presers untelligence set-up.

& aloo Immiloo tho capacit

not in my judgent, an azumens agalnot a rettenal reorganization

intelligence.

Is to as argumon los a drasite onbaul of the State

Department

N 19061 DocId: 32622644 Page 15

---

## Page 16

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNEDURE

O OF THE ORIGINA

DUE

TO THE DETERIORATION

SECRET

1a

15.

The structure wilc! sould ried the criserte meganted la lie

memorandom would a as fulluws:

1) The Sta: Departmemt noald be granted general

•ciearance auth uly eves all clandestine sectulty. This

night be ellectured on lba Britiah model by the appolntanat

al a Leputy Unir inocretary of Stato fos Intolligence, Whe

would act for !!

incretary in thoss mattera and who raight

serve as chairs ^101 a Jolst Iotalligence Board.

2) The j0::. Intelligence loard would laclude repre-

serialives fror ll elumenta la the datelligence communisy

BIn d'ed froad: Vibite House.

3) The operuling branches ol the present CLA moale be

reconstitutod under some blamelese titio (Re Nationn! Informa

lion Servico), Tale sew ageacy would bo charged with raspanai..

bility los clandestine callection, for covert polliseal operations

and los paramlilasy activities. Il mould sabrti projacte lo the

Daputy Votersecretary of State for Intelligence for elensanco.

Is general, the agency would bear somewhat the mano relation.

uhip to Stata as tno Disaimamont Adminiatraken and ICA

presently do

" cocond senil independent agency would be set up, again

koaring a blameless illo (she Foreiga Resoares Agencylo coordi-

nate with the operations agency.

This agency would be charged

with resposalbility. los cellalion and interpretation. & mould

Include CLA/DDi, the Lureau of Intelligenen and Revearch la

State, And the various service functions now earried en by CLA

"(photographic inter;reation, blographical fles, foreign broadcas,

nonstoring, octensific intelligenco, mapt, evert callertion, etc.!

& might woll be located in ebe CIA building in selors,

Arthur Sehlostager, Js.

CC:

The Attorney General

Mr. Bundy

Mr:: Dungar

CASECRE

---

