# 176-10036-10154

## Page 1

176-10036-10154

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10154

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR : DOS

FROM : Saigon

TO : Secretary of State

TITLE : Embtel 676

DATE : 10/10/1963

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

Cables. Box 2

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam, 10/6/63-10/14/63, State

---

## Page 2

INCOMING TELEGRAM

Lu partment of Statt

SECRET

DEESHNLILEL

VERSION N4K-82-69

36

Action

., SS

Info

Control:

Rec'd:

FROM: SAIGON

TO: Secretary of State

7628

OCTOBER 1Д. 1963.

6:15 AM

#3 dest

4/8/64

NO:

676, OCTOBER 1D, 5 PM

LIMIT DISTRIBUTION

EYES ONL

FOR RUSK AND HARRIMAN FROM LODGE

1à THIS REFERS TO CAS CABLES FVS-9753 AND FVS-975$.

20. THERE HAS BEEN SOME SORT OF ASSASSINATION RUMOR ON THE

AVERAGE OF ABOUT ONE IN EVERY TEN DAYS SINCE I HAVE BEEN HERE,

CALES ARE SURUSCIENTLY ALIEVABLE TO WARRANT FRESH STAVE-DENTNONED

PLANNING ON TWO MAJOR POINTS:

Ao..

IF. I AM ASSASSINATED IN THE WAY INDICATED IN ABOVE REPORTS,

THE DEED WILL IN EFFECT HAVE BEEN DONE BY THE GUN RPT GVN

HOWEVER MUCH THEY ATTEMPT TO DISGUISE IT, SINCE THEY WILL HAVE

INSTIGATED THE MOB AND WILL HAVE DENIED US THE POLICE PROTECTION

WHICH THEY ARE TOTALLY CAPABLE OF GIVING US IN. VIEW OF THE VERY

LARGE POLICE FORCE IN SAIGON WHICH IS UNDER THEIR ABSOLUTE CONTROL•

THIS WILL, THEREFORE, AUTOMATICALLY CONSTITUTE A RUPTURE OF DIPLO:

MATIC RELATIONS AND MEANS THAT PRESENT ASSUMPTIONS UNDERLY ING

U.S: PRESENCE HERE WOULD BE FALSE.

THIS WILL HAVE GRAVE CON

SEQUENCES FOR ALL AMERICANS IN VIET-NAM, NOTABLY AS REGARDS

EVACUATION AND THERE SHOULD BE FRESH CONTINGENCY PLANNING TO.

COVER THIS SITUATION.

Bo. IF I AM ASSASSINATED, A NEW SITUATION WOULD BE CREATED

WHICH MIGHT GIVE US A CHANGE TO MOVE EFFECTIVELY FOR A CHANGE

OF GOVERNMENT USING METHODS WHICH WOULD NOW BE REJECTED BY VeS

AND WORLD OPINION, BUT WHICH WOULD THEN BECOME ACCEPTABLE.

THERE SHOULD BE STATE-DEFENSE PLANNING ON THIS.

FOR DIEM

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS

SECRET

• PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

---

## Page 3

36

SECRET

-2- 676, OCTOBER 1D, 5 PM FROM SAIGON

30.. FOR DIEM AND NHU EVEN TO BE THINKING OF MY ASSASSINATION IS

SO UNBELIEVABLY. IDIOTIC THAT A REASONABLE PERSON WOULD REJECT IT

BUT NHU IS APPARENTLY PLEASED WITH HIS RAIDS ON

TE ON PANG 100/CO AM TO TEN THE CAR FOR AN ED TH

ALSO HE IS REPORTED TO BE SMOKING OPIUM. FOR ALL THESE REASONS

MY ASSOCIATES HERE, WHOSE EXPERIENCE ANTEDATES. MINE, CONSIDER

ASSASSINATION TO BE A REAL POSSIBILITY, NEEDLESS TO SAY, THIS

COMES AS NO SURPRISE, AS I REALIZED THE POSSIBILITY OF THIS

WHEN I ACCEPTED THIS POST®

4 I. HOPE TO HAVE THE ENTRANCE GATES TO THE BUILDING CLOSED

WHEN CROWD BEGINS TO GATHER AND FOR THE MARINES TO THROW

TEAR GAS FROM INSIDE TO PREVENT CROWD FROM BREAKING THE GATES

DOWN. . IF THE CROWD TRIES TO ENTER THE BUILDING BY THROWING

LADDERS OR OTHER CATWALKS FROM THE CHINESE HOUSE NEXT DOOR OVER

TO. OUR OUTSIDE BALCONIES, WE WILL TRY TO THROW THE LADDERS OFF

AND USE TEAR GAS THERE, TOO. I PLAN IMMEDIATE PROTEST TO GVN,

EITHER BY TELEPHONE OR VIA MACY RPT MACY. BUT I PLAN NO

RPT NO SHOOTING•

50: AM IN CLOSE CONSULTATION WITH MACU.

•6. 1. HAVE INSTRUCTED CAS ACTING STATION CHIEF TO HAVE HIS

AGENT TELL SOURCE THAT IF GVN AUTHORITIES MOUNT SUCH AN OPERATION:

AMERICAN RETALIATION WILL BE PROMPT AND AWFUL BEYOND DESCRIPTION•.

SOURCE WILL BE INVITED TO EXAMINE RECORD OF. U. So. MARINES IN

PACIFIC DURING WW II RPT WW II AND ASK HIMSELE CANDIDLY WHETHER

GN WISHES TO. HAVE SUCH A HORRIBLE AND CRUSHING BLOW DESCEND.

ON THEM® •

• GP-2

LODGE

JVC/27

NOTE: PASSED WHITE HOUSE 18-1D-63 7:07 AM

SECRET

---

