# 176-10011-10051_1

## Page 1

176-10011-10051]

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2016

AGENCY: NARA

RECORD NUMBER :

176-10011-10051

RECORD SERIES: • NSF

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SA

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: WH

FROM:

TO:

TITLE: PHASE I

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: UPON AGENCY REVIEW

COMMENTS : NSF:M&M:SPECIAL GROUP(AUGMENTED): 1/62-6/62:BOX 319:PENDING NLK-90-47

No 89062 DucKa:3298377

19

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPERATION MONGOOSE

PHASE: I-(CLA)

ACTIVITY

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS

* Dibpatch one intelligence

agent operation to key area

selected by CIA:

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

=15 March 1962

PURPOSE

CONSIDERATIONS

• Collect and report intelligence on anti-

regime attitudes, on potential resist-

ance, and on vulnerabilities and

strengths of Communistsecurity,

system.

There is a risk that this action will dieclose this U.S.

intelligence activity within Cuba, Selected personnel

are being intensively trained.

This first team hao?

agents. An area in which resistance has been réported

has been delected. Agent operations muet stay alive:

make useful contacts, and report securely to ClA:

Physical risk to personnel is substantial, due to lack

of intelligence.

First reporte from dipt team are

expected by the end of March, while reports from the

second and third teams, dispatched in March, are ex-

pected to, start in April.

Many of the agents infiltrated into Cuba will be trained

for paramilitary skille ao well as inte igence conection.

with the thought that they will be in place inside. Cuba

and ready to act whenever paramilitary operationd are

decided upon. However, CLA has noted that, once the

agents are inside Cuba, they cannot be controlled:

effectively from outside Cuba, although every effort

will be made to attempt such control.

These staff intelligence officers may also be used in the

future for communications of agent handling. is future

developments warrant.

3 third-country intelligence

staff officere in place in

Havana.

• 3.

2 third-country trained intel-

ligence officers, readied to

travel in Cuba for temporary.

periods.

To collect intelligence:

To collect intelligence.

Items marked by asterisk

Were approyed by Special Group (Augmented), 5 March 1962.

07

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

ul e

NU 49061

Doold: 32205327

---

## Page 3

ACTIVITY

4. * Caribbean Admission Center;

Opa-Locka, Florida, fully

activated by. 15 March 1962.

1 - 15 March 1962 (cont)

PURPOSE

To collect intelligence

required for the

operations, to identify and earmark in

telligence asdets as refugees arrive.

and to provide security against Com-

munist agent operations.

5. t

Periodis intelligence esti-

mates,

as required by progress

of operations.

To up-date NIE 85-62, so that current.

estimates can be considered at national

policy levels.

CONSIDERATIONS:

Thie operation,

in response to early recommendation

as essential by the Chief of Operations, is moving at

utmost speed to become fully active by 15 March, with

a new building completed and occupied, and with a

staff of 43 at work. Operations commenced 15. February

and, as of 9 March, 33 people were active at the Center.

(ClA responsibility, With support by Defense, Justice,

State,: USIA:)

As the operations develop, there will be both increased

intelligence collection and a need for as current an In-

telligence Estimate as the U.S. can produce meaningfully.

Inte likely that a more informal method of producing an

Intelligence Estimate for use at the national level (than

now governing: the issuance of NIE's) may have to be

followed. CIA is now publishing daily intelligence sum-

maries on Cuba and in planning a bi-monthly or weekly

report summing up intelligence for this purpose: (CIA

responsibility, with support of others ab required.)

OTHER OPERATIONS:

6:

*Continue negotiating for

help in contaminating

locomotive lubricants..

To cripple Cuba's rail transportation.

assistance is required to undertake a successful

sabotage of Cuban locomotives, through contaminating

lubricants. It is expected that a minimum of 3 monthe

is required before locomotives in Cuba start breaking

down, once the contaminant is introduced.

16 - 31 March 1962

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS

•7. * Two teams of agente die-

patched to Cuba.

To collect intelligence.

Items marked by asterisk were approved by Special Group (Augmented), 5 March 1962

[2]

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

One team of 4 and one team of 3 agents. Both teams include

personnel who have had resiatance training and some past

experience.

NH 49061

DocId: 32205327

---

## Page 4

"TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

16 - 31 March 1962 (cont.)

PURPOSE

To collect intelligence.

ACTIVITY

:8.

Establish 2 additional third-

country resident agents in

: Cuba:

9.: By 31 March, have 105 agents

selected and 50 agents trained.

CONSIDERATIONS

Possible future use in communications and support.

To ready agent operations.

io. Develop intelligence potential

To exploit the intelligence possi-

of Cuban "colonies"

in U.S.

bilities of former residents of

Cuba (including U.S. citizens) now

in the United Statee

Effectiveness and numbere are dependent upon urpose

of recruitment,

nature of training, and policy decisions

controlling these factors. I the recruitment and train.

ing are for resistance activities; the task of recruit-

ment and training will be much less difficult than if

they are limited to intelligence-collection purposes

only.:

There are "colonies" in Washington, D.C., and other

u.s. cities which are "little Cubas,

Family,- Church,

and business intereste provoke unusual pereonal ties

inside Cuba for some of these residents; a real potential

exists for collection of intelligence not otherwise avail-

able. FBI support and coordination i basic in thie

effort.)

, As-Opa-Locka becomes fully activated, CIA will activate

I1, * Develop additional interroga-

ition centers in other areas by

31 March:1962.

To collect intelligence in a Latin

atmosphere, at different levels than

now seem possible in the continental

U,S, to spot additional intelligence

assets and to provide security.

against Communist agent operations:

it possible, in Mexico City, Caracas; and Aruba. San

Juan, Puerto Rico, and Santiago, Chile, are being eur-.

veyed for possible centers. (CLA responsibility with sup-

port by others as necessary.)

OTHER OPERATIONS

• None.

Iteras marked by asterisk were approved by Special Group (Augmented), 5 March 1962.

03]

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

49061

DocId: 32205327

_Page

---

## Page 5

•Vi

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

1.-. 15 April 1962:

ACTIVITY

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS:

12. #

Two teams of agents dig-

patchee to Cuba.

13.5 third-country agents, tem-

porarily travelling legally, in

Cuba:

OTHER OPERATIONS

None:

INTELLIGENCE, OPERATIONS.

14. * Two teams of agents dis-

patched to Cuba:

15.

One third -country legal:

resident agent in Havána.

OTHER OPERATIONS

•Nöne:

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS

16. * Two teams of agents dis -

patched to Cuba.

17.

3 legal resident agents in

Cuba.

PURPOSE

To colloct spelligenc

16 - 30 April 1962

To collect intelligence:

To collect intelligence.

1 - 15 May 1962

To collect intelligence.

To collect intelligence.

Items marked by asterisk were approved by Special Group (Augmented), 5 March 1962.

[4]

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

CONSiDERATIONS

Number of agents undetermined as yet.

Teams of 2 to 5 agents each; depending on circum-

stances:

Possible use for communications and support.

Teams of 2 to 5 agenta each, depending on circum-

stances.

NH 49061

Dooid: 32205327

Page

---

## Page 6

18

TOP SEGRET-SENSITIVE-

1 - 15 May 1962 (cont)

PURPOSE

To collect intelligence.

ACTIVITY

One or possibly two trained

staff intelligence officers

(non-U.S. ) resident in

: Havana.

Ten legal travellere in Cuba.

CONSIDERATIONS

19.

OTHER OPERATIONS

None:

To collect intelligence.

"Legal travel" means persons are in Cuba visiting;

some for extended periods.

16 - 31 May 1962

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS.

20. * Four teame of agents dis-

patched to Cuba.

21.

One possible singleton agent:

operation, Isle of Pines.

To collect intelligence.

To collect intelligence.

22.

Four additional resident agente

To collect intelligence.

inside Cuba.

Teams of 2 to. 5 agente, eachy depending on circum-

stances CIA will be anem purite cover as much:

of Cuba an it cán.

Difficult:

CIA will be attempting to cover as much of Cuba

as it can. The main factor of determining location

of resident agents is to find a place where a trained

agent can stay viable.

23.

Five "legal travel" agents

inside Cuba.

To collect intelligence.

24. By. 31 May, selection of 50

To ready agent operations.

additional agents and train

35 additional agents:

Items marked by asterisk were approved by Special Group (Augmented), 5 March 1962

IOP SECRET SENSITIVEL

NU 49061

• DocId: 32205327

Page

---

## Page 7

16 - 31 Mạy 1962 (cönt) :

"PURPOSE

ACTIVITY

OTHER OPERATIONS

25. By 31 May, develop a plan for

counterfeiting currency, which

would not be implemented until

a decision was made to debase

the economy in Cuba:

CONSIDERATIONS

To debase the economy of Cuba.

A counterfeiting program is being developed.

Needs

are to staff the proposal thoroughly to permit a policy

decision to be made and to staff out a feasíble distribu

tion plan. It is expected that no decision to implement

such a plan would be made immediately:

1 June - 31 July: 1962

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS

26. * 10 to 15 teams of agents dis- To collect intelligence.

patched to Cuba.

27.

Reinforce and resupply agents

To reinforce and resupply, as

and teams previously placed or possible.

activated inside Cuba.

28.

By: 31 July, select 100 additional To ready agent operations.

agents and train 70 additional

agents.

Number of agents in each team and selection of areas

will be determined by developmente of the previous

actions and by conditions.:

Numbers, areas, and supplies are completely dependent

upon conditions at the time, and upon policy approval of

methods to be used (that is, if air delivery can be used,

or if this activity must depend upon maritime delivery).

•29: *

Collection of psychological

material.

To provide documentary and photo-

graphic evidence of the tyranny. of

the Communist regime.

30. * Survey airfields, military.

installations, and communica-

tion centers.

3i. * By the end of July, have

operations to penetrate the

regime.

To provide current intelligence on

key security resources of the

regime.

To provide current intelligence on the

• actions and intentions of the regime.

[6]

# Items marked by asterisk were approved by Special Group (Augmented), 5 March 1962

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

This evidence will be used by CIA and USLA to neutralize

the influence of Castro and the Communists in the West-

ern Hemisphere.

neived tary around everyta pe the polible

intelligence agents.

Bove require at to no a to rated act eide

or to defect officials "in place."

19061

Donta: 30005327. Page

---

## Page 8

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

1 June - 31 July 1962 (cont

ACTIVITY

OTHER OPERATIONS.

None.

PURPOSE

CONSIDERATIONS

32:

)Comprehensive and

defintive intelligence

report on attitudes and

abilities of the popula-

tion inflide Cuba.

End öf July 1962

To provide the Special Group CVSC 5412

augmented) with a hard estimate of the

Cuban situation:

The intelligence estimate will provide a vital basis for

a Special Group recommendation on

whether or not the

uS. should undertake actions to make maximum use

of cuban resources as a justification for decisive U.S.

military intervention.

ife.

Items marked by asterisk were approved by Special Group (Augmented), 5 March 1962

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

N 19061. DocId: 32205327

Page 8

---

## Page 9

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

OPERATION MONGOOSE

PHASÉ I (State)

-March - July 1962

Political and economic

operations to isolate Castro.

regime and neutralize its

influence in the Western

Hemisphere.

Ictivities: in consonance with U:S, polic

established after the April 1961 failure in Cuba.

CONSIDERATIONS

These activities will have some negative impact

on the Cuban people, who are part of the target, but

are consistent with an overt policy of isolating Castro

and neutralizing his influence in the Western Hemis-

They are noted here,

for the sake of com-

pleteness, as actions now being carried out by the

Department of State under other existing programs

and projects.

3C.

[8]

NW 49061 DocId:32205327 Page 9

---

## Page 10

OpERATIOn MONGOOSE

PHASE 1 (Detense).

ACTIVITY

Expand special intelligence and

"other, sensitive intelligence cover-

age of Cuba as required.

2. Develop the means of the inter-

American Defense Board to pro-

vide substantive intelligence.on

Cuban activities:

3. Provide logistic and personnel

suppoft for CIA intelligence

operations into Cuba:

4:

The Joint Chiefs of Staff will con-

tinue the planning and essential

preliminary actione to assure a

declove U.S, military capability

for intervention:

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

To develop increased !'hard" intelligence.

To add to the U.S. intelligence coverage

on Cuba and possibly to strengthen the

concern of Latin American states for

security.

To ensure optimum implementation of the

intelligence plan.

To overthrow the Communist goverment

of Cuba.

CONSIDERATIONS

Use of cays near Cuba entail unacceptable security

ricks when vulnerable to Cuban landing parties.

(Defense, in collaboration with CLA.)

Sensitivity of using this multi-national organiza.

Mon, clearly reptricte potential use by USA.. Visi-

bility of operational interest le an acceptable risk

here.

The intelligence plan requires support by U.S.

military manpower and equipment

The U. S military intervention must be conducted

as quickly as possible and with sufficient force

so that the Communist Bloe d ability to take

effective, counter-measures is reduced to a

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

49061

DocId: 32205327

Page: 10

---

## Page 11

OPERATION MONGOOSE

PHASE I (USIA)

ACTIVITY

"Propaganda programs to isolate

"Castro regime

and neutralize its

influence in the Western Hemis-

phere:

TOP SECRET SENSiTIVE

March - July 1962

PURPOSE:

Activities in consonance with U,S.

policy established after the April

1961 failure in Cuba.

CONSIDERATIONS

These activities will have some general impact

upon Castro support and influence in the Western

Hemisphere.

There will be some new material

for use as the Phase I intelligence operations:

produce but essentially the program le a continua-

tion of that already in effect.

....acaie i .

[107

NG 49061

DocId: 32205327 Page 11

---

