# 176-10036-10058

## Page 1

176-10036-10058|

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

•IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10058

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

àu úu đu đễ đha tịn tp mừ tịể tp cn tạn tấ thựn đạu th tạu bàp bừ đàp tho đờng Hà &

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO : Director, CIA

TITLE : Activities of Cuban Trained Peruvian Guerrillas

DATE : 4/11/1963

PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 51: Cuba, Subjects intelligence material

6/63-7/63. Box 1

apa d dra d toa

---

## Page 2

N64-01-051-7-4-5

SFORET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

cott, to and the

(4)

EYES ONLY

in April 1969

KENORANDUM FORS

SUBJECT

The Director os Centrel Intelligence

settrities of Cuben mained Peruvien Guerrsilen

The information' in this menorandun comes from an extremely

flive bonce

No other dissemination has been made of the res

ports he has provided, in order to protect hin and to insure that a

atent of Cuban, eports to asatet. Latin AmerIcan Sevolutionary nove:

even coup no ostenibly in Cube only to lettend ther

so yee did

agraddress

the houses and the locat sond of the guer.

510

SECRET

---

## Page 3

ECRET

Although many left Peru openly on valid papors; they are coming

back tilegily.

Bone: have false documenta. on fron other countree,

primarily fron Colombla, some have Peruyian passporte lasued in the

names of persons now deceased; sone ere crossing the borders from

neighboring countries ctendest mely without enowing any papers, und

come go by sell boats to inolated aread:

6

the Moviniento Izgulorda: Rovolu

Conario (MIR) of Peru into now plans to join with other lortist

revolutionary groups to brine phant s on bofore the electiong

scheduled for Juno 1963.

of come. 200 Peruvians woc

beve roceived Cuban trenang, only e cull percentege of weon are

actually Communiet Party Mendered

7o Approxinatoly 309 percons heve been named

being connected with the fing helping the Peruviane to rentstrat

secretly. At empto ero being, made to: learn whether tonelor those,

roturn of ouban trained evermollas to other courren.

parte hao energed se the center of the networko

croups of

ten art Ave veekly, tron Cuba to be sent on, to ver tous latin Amertoan

See one: Brever

sending inctructione, to his ecattered cubordtnates:

and recelvise

orte and intoretion, from contacte throtchout. the r

tor 1d, and hending Cundol 2 eng eVE

296.

Corroapondenco between menberg of the group le by, cablo and

"tho security of communications: la protected by several

alternato systens of code and secret westing Bach of the wratnees:

hes been; assdged a number, and lotter end number designat one ero.

given to hotole and pensionge. In cable correspondendes the hig uses

these numbero to indicate mich persons are trevoling and therertney

business nattera, oovering chipment dates and invotee numbere tot

rolatively sophiscated yetend, interepaced between. sneeds tudiong:

trendy or bus none letter diationary In used for coded mose

sagen-in elthen cables or letters, with rage ind word number rofer

ring to clandest ine key wordst,

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SFCRET

10s the ring takes ereat precention to prevent tracing of the:

adarossees. One of the important linke is a roman mose Parte home

had entrances on two different streete. She and ber hisband use the

principal street addrose for their normal lives, but the back atreet

eddress for the receipt of clandestine correspandonce:

1u.: In this Cuben-sponsored subverstve operation, routes of

travel are plenned to escepe outy detection of the tact that a pereon.

has left hie home, been tratned, and, hat, returned to his country.

Most of the travel hag beon by way of lesico and thence to Cuba,

since it no possible to escape detection of the travel. The Cubent:

Issued: loose leat inserts for the travelero, pesporte, rather than.

eterping a record of the travel in ths document teet? chelserioen

Covermant has recently begin mennurn to control this travel, but a

Large mmber have managed to enter dna leave Onba fortrexico mthout

deteoblong. Some of the travel to Cube, de by say of the Dutch and bratsch

west Indiag

lemy Ofet he Seturning trainges go through Parto and Pragues

From Parte thet revelera con outsto e nimber of dirterent ball,.

Amer lana countrans, tron mich they attempt rolandest netro entry into:

Porus, Boudoth

-Combin and massi havo been uned, extonidrely na

satin American entry points ao the trayelong leave Paris

that foner for thto estenile travel

proe in bad:

vie Cube:

Correvoid.

o 1bed In Svies banks byrthe Chinese Commentsten

are told not, to ask for aid fronthe, sovleben

onth chine, since

Chann

To tins come one

hes Involving

chaa

when thes

SECRET

---

## Page 5

ECRET

the next group wilt miber approximately 100 nen end tbat they trill

redeive Instructions In Algerie, North Vietnam, Laos, and China, The

top lender of the peruvian Tot hap told hig loutarente that ho vill

soon go to Algerie to etart arrangenente for thie training;,

15. The till haa planned four Cronts in Peru in its proponed

revolution, One is in the south with headquartere in Cuico, another

is In the central region in the Sierra. a third to in Kmar and the:

fourth 1s in nörthern Paru:

arequent reference to internel disputes in

the MIn between the old line Communists and those referred to de

Protalyated

The Min leaders In Cuba felt that some of their oun

coupe had golned With the Trotaky ven and they duecussed cold problen

with Fidel castro unabrò promteed not to let they co-called rotaky--

bes return to Peru until the othero vera already in place and in.

command of the sereral. ronte.

sone of the avored Crotcky ten here

amons the firct to bergent backy bowever, and the lon loudera ere

highly incenced,

The loaders tens that the Trotsk Ites will endange

the roverend and they have been especterly chaturbed to find thet

tep Giban officeros

then tron Cube

no are know to be trotekyiton, had accompanted:

170

The re

to then by couriers

the guid bo, regiod, to potato that is out ten taL

The leadero of the braineet completned

hat, the ran had, not made adequate plánd to recoire the eroupe ent

ad not developed ¿ta, revolationary plans sounds

19% Becently, however the operation ban been mereng nola

The leadere of the with heve been puthing addit tonal

tion of there neerby countrtes Lo aleo being procured to assistrothere

to croes:

Into Peru legallyn;

SECRET

---

