# 176-10036-10026

## Page 1

176-10036-10026

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10026

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : WH

FROM.: Chase

TO : Bundy, McGeorge

TITLE : Cuban Coordinating Committee

DATE : 1/19/1963

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 37: Cuba 1/63. Box 1.

---

## Page 2

= Exeriets

NiX 075-170

Janitizza ClA rEulEw

6118196

SECRET - EYES ONLY

January 19, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. BUNDY

SUBJECT: Cuban Coordinating Committee

The following are some further thoughts on the work of the Committee:

1. Future Policy Toward Cuba - As I mentioned to you la my

memorandum of January 18, Secretary Vance submitted a paper to the

Committee which identified two posaible courses of action in trying to

overthrow the Castro/Communist regime in Cuba; (1) a policy of apply-

Ing Increasing degrees of political, economic, psychological and mili-

tary pressures, and (2) a policy of applying political, economic,

paychological and military pressures as appropriate opportunities

present themselves.

In presenting the paper to the Committee, Secre-

tary Vance made it abundantly clear that while he had Identified an

alternate course of action, the identification did not include an endorse-

ment • he had not yet reached i decision on that question.

While, on the surface, Bob Hurwitch geems to have accepted

the coneideration of an alternative course of action la the policy paper.

he undoubtedly viewe it coldly. He believes strongly that such factore

ad (1) our hope to act with full OAS support, and (2) Presidential etate-

mente about our non aggressive intentione, necessarily limit our policy

to one of applying pressures as opportunities present themselves: thie

is noither a "hard" nor "soft" policy but the only politically reallatic

policy. Deep down. & think he rogards the consideration of the so-called

"active policy, " at best, as a useless exercide and waste of time and.

at worat, as an insidious attempt by DOD dreamera to bring to life a

policy which will earn battlefleld promotions at the expense of U.S.

national interest. I can't say yet how far Mr. Cottrell goes along with

that view.

On this one, I'm with Secretary Vance. The alternate course

of action le substantively worth focusing on. Algo, the educational aspect

de Important. Both Mi. Cottrell and Secretary Vance are new at the

Cuban bualness. If they are to be really effective in their new colee, it

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 3

SECRET-EXES ONLY

• 2.

seems worthwhile that they think through basic courses of action which

may appear to others to be unattractive. The proces need not turn

out to be either very time-consuming or dasgerous.

After you received the phone call from Secretary Vance, I passed

our message to Mr. Cottrell. He and Mr. Vance planned to meet lat

aturday afternoon to thrash out the policy paper

2. CIA vie-a-vie the Miami Office (Mr. Crimmins) -- I mentioned

to you in a previous memorandum that at one meeting, Mr. Cheiver, the

ClA representative, viewed the work of the Miami office in a narrow

sense; he obviously was reluctant to see Mr. Crimmine getting involved

la CIA business, Bob Hurwitch tells me that this problem ie under

control. He said (1) that Me. Cheiver had simply no? gotten the word.

(2) that Mr. Fitzgerald and others in CIA do have the word, and (3) that

there de no need at present to make an lesue of this point.

3. Timing of Meotiaga

The following meetinge on Cuba are scheduled for thie week:

Monday, 2:00 PM - Cuban Coordinating Committee at State

Wednesday, 10:30 AM - MI. Cottrel, Secretary Vance,

Mr. Helms, Mr. Dungan, with you in your office

Thureday, 10:00 AM - ExCom

1. Papers

Papera for the ExCom meeting will be distributed on Tuesday

afternoon.

Gordon Chase

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

