# 176-10037-10440

## Page 1

176-10037-10440

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10440

RECORD SERIES : Personal Papers of Richard Goodwin

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Information Report Re:

DATE : 9/3/1961

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Goodwin Papers: Cuba, Meetings on Refugees, Box 4. Box 7.

---

## Page 2

TELEGRAM

12004. 19. 27

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

2

This and arial

contalms Information affecting

SECRET

(When Piled Ha)

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

SOURCE

BRAZIL

CHINA: CUBA

OFFER OF SUPPLIES AND MEN: TO THE

GOVERNOR OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL BY.

THE GOVERNMENTS OF COMMUNIST CHINA

AND: CUBA

WEEKCOF 27 AUGUST 1961

:3

CLASSIFICATION:

MUELONAND

CONIRI

REPORT NO.: TDCS -3/485,732

DATE DISTR. 3 SEPTEMBER 1961

PRECEDENCE • PRIORITY

REFERENCES

iN 23204

FIELD REPORT NO: HBR 2529

THIS 15 UNEYALUATEDINFORMATION: SOURCE GRADINGS: ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

• 1.

DURING THE WEEK OF 27 AUGUST PARTY CHAIRMAN MAO TSE TUNG

OF COMMUNIST CHINA AND PREMIER FIDEL CASTRO OF CUBA BOTH OFFERED

MATERIAL SUPPORT, INCLUDING QUOTE VOLUNTEERS UNQUOTE, TO LEONEL

BRIZOLA,: GOVERNOR OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL, WHO WAS LEADING THE STRUGGLE

IN BRAZIL TO ASSURE THE SUCCESSION TO THE PRESIDENCY OF VICE

PRESIDENT JOAO GOULART UPON THE RESIGNATION OF PRESIDENT JANIO QUADROS •

BRIZOLA DID NOT ACCEPT THE OFFER, ALTHOUGH HE APPRECIATED THE

MORAL SUPPORT, BECAUSE HE DID NOT WISH TO QUOTE CREATE AN INTERNAT-

IONAL AFFAIR UNQUOTE OF BRAZIL'S POLITICAL CRISIS• (FIELD COMMENT&

BRIZOLA OBVIOUSLY WAS AFRAID THAT: IF THE OFFERS WERE ACCEPTED

THE UNITED STATES MIGHT INTERVENE. THE OFFER OF AID BY CASTRO LEAKED

SECRET

NOF DAN/'ON TNUEY TONTROL"

STATE.

"ARMY/ACSI

NAVY:

AIR

"SECDEF NSA: NIC: USIA: OCI ONE:

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

EXOlFBI

I &NS

TREASURY

TELEGRAM

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T*

NOFORN CONINULD CONTROL

TO THE PRESS; THAT OF MAO DID NOT?.

20

20 FIELD DISSEM: STATE, FBI.

TDCS -3/485,732

IN 23204

PAGE . 2

ARMY, NAVY, AIR, CINCARIB. CiNCLANT

END OF MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONIF OLS

NOFORA/CONTINUED CONTROL

---

