# 176-10036-10022

## Page 1

176-10036-10022

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10022

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : CIA Information Report

DATE : 10/18/1962

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Congo Cables; restriction information innacurate/missing; box 1

---

## Page 2

#110020600

UPHELO NK-01-032-13-1-2

10 891

12/06

26

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY //

transmission

nevlation of ehich

Nationel Defense of the United States within the meaninee

manner to an unauthoried person

law.

Elans Love, Tia i8, USe

Sect

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled In)

COUNTRY REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

DESTKUI

REPORT NO.

TDCS -3/525,623

SUBJECT

DISSENTION IN THE RANKS OF THE

CONGOLESE NATIONAL ARMY

DATE DISTR. 18 OCTOBER

1860ORRO

VIS

MAN

DATE OF

15-17 OCTOBER 1962

FILE

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

FELDMAN

REFERENCES

FORRESTAL

-HIRSCI

INFO.

PLACE &

REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO,

- JOHNSON

DATE ACO.

LEOPOLDVILLE (17

OCTOBER 1962)

APPRAISAL 3

FIELD REPORT NO.

LKILDUFE

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION: SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS LIVES

SOURCE

-PARROTT

-PETERSAN

-AUNDERS

1. THERE IS CONSIDERABLE DISSATISFACTION

• CENTRAL CONGO GOVERNMENT'S (GOC)

OVER THE / HANDLING OF THE KATANGA PROBLEM, MANY

BELIEVE THE GOVT IS TOO WEAK IN ITS.:

KATANGA POLICY. (SOURCE COMMENT: MANY CNA MEMBERS BELIEVE THAT

GOC MODERATION HAS RESULTED FROM GOC MEMBERS ACCEPTING

KATANGA PROVINCIAL PRESIDENT

BRIBES FROM/TSHOMBE. THE RESENTMENT IS GROWING AND COULD RESULT

IN AN EFFORT BY SOME

TO OUST GENERAL

MOBUTU AND/OR THE CURRENT GOVT. ALTHOUGH A COUP IS NOT

LIKELY IN THE IMMEDIATE FUTURE, THE POSSIBILITY CANNOT BE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

GROUP I

Eneluded from quiomeie

downgrading'and

declossofication

STATE/ INR

ARMY/ACSI MAVY

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

•SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR

ORR '081

EXO

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

FORM

5-62

1KQ OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS,

(15-20)

---

## Page 3

26

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

"(When: Fulled In)

TDCS-3/525,613

IN

41871

PAGE 1-2

IGNORED THAT DISSAFFECTED

MIGHT TURN AGAINST THE

GOVT IF A SOLUTION IS NOT FOUND TO THE KATANGA PROBLEM VERY RAPIDLY.

A DEBATE ON THE KATANGA PROBLEM IN PARLIAMENT COULD EASILY STIR UP

AND CAUSE THEM TO SUPPORT AN OPPOSITION MOVE TO BRING

DOWN THE GOVT.)

(FIELD COMMENT: FOR PREVIOUS REPORTS CONCERNING DISSATISFACTION

SEE.

(TOCS -3/525,377 ) AND

00S -3/524,596

FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINCLANT.

SUSADED.

BA8L88+

679710.11

dà.r.,

2003k

.i.d!

END OF MESSAGE

• CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

---

