# 176-10036-10139

## Page 1

176-10036-10139]

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10139

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : CIA Information Report

DATE : 10/15/1963

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

Reports. Box 2

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam, 10/6/1963-10/14/63, CIA

---

## Page 2

(0)

TELEGRAM INFE IMATION REPOIT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This

793 and 284.

the trins

information

alfecting

transmission

revelation

National Defense

nonica in any elance to be Unitedo sled bevin":

''be meanid i the Espionago Lams, Tilto 18, U.S.€ Sess.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNIRY

SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO. TDS 3/562,014

SUBJECT

RECOMMENDATION BY CABINET OFFICERS THAT

NHU BE MADE PRIME MINISTER

DATE DISTR. 15 OCTOBER 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUT I NE

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

EARLY OCTOBER 1963

REFERENCES

IN 39851

VIETNAM, SAIGON (8 OCTOBER 1963)

FIELD REPORT NO.

FVS-9764

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

APPRAISAL:

THE CABINET OFFICERS MAY HAVE MADE SUCH A RECOMMENDÄTION.

1. SUMMARY, ON 8 OCTOBER 1963l

ON 5 OCTOBER VICE PRESIDENT NIZUYEN NGOC THO

THAT AT A

MEETING OF CABINET OFFICERS IN EARLY OCTOBER IT WAS DECIDED TO

RECOMMEND TO PRESIDENT DIEM T:SAT NGO DINH NHU BE APPOINTED

PRIME MINISTER.

THAT THIS PROPOSAL WOULD REQUIRE A

CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT WHICH WOULD BE VOTED BY THE NATIONAL

ASSEMBLY WITHOUT DIFFICULTY:

2. ON 5 OCTOBER VICE PRESIDENT THO

THAT IN EARLY

OCTOBER HE HAD CALLED A MEETING OF ALL CABINET MEMBERS TO•

CONFIDENTIAL

GROUP !

Breluded denm muiematis

doungroding and

ARMY/ACSI, NAVY

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECDER) NSA NIC AID USIA OCT ONE OCR

ORR 20T

00

EXO

STATE/D1R

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

FORM

483

1Ka OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS,

(15-20!

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

(WHEN FILLED IN)

NO FOREIGN DISSE

TDCS- 3/562,014

IN 39851

PAGE2

DISCUSS THE STATUS OF NGO DINH NHU IN. THE GOVERNMENT. THO

SAID THAT THE CABINET DECIDED TO RECOMMEND TO PRESIDENT DIEM THAT

NHU BE APPOINTED PRIME MINISTER, REASONING THAT IF THE PRESIDENT

DID NOT INTEND TO REDUCE NHU'S INFLUENCE IN GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS,

THE LATTER'S APPOINTMENT TO AN OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT POST WOULD

AT LEAST MAKE HIM ACEOUNTABLE FOR HIS ACTIONS:

2. ON 8 OCTOBERL

THAT IF THE PRESIDENT ACCEPTED

THIS SUGGESTION, A CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT WOULD BE REQUIRED BUT

THAT THIS WOULD POSE NO PROBLEM AS THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY WOULD

VOTE THE CHANGE WITHOUT DIFFICULTY.

3: FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMAGV MAAG USOM

USIS 9TH FLD STA 2ND AIR DIV. CINPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

(WHEN FILLED IN)

FORM IK-I

1-63

•':: USE PREVIOUS.::

EDITIONS

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

?..

CONTATION. OF TOCS INFORMATION REPORTS

MFG. 2:63.

(15-20-44-4

---

