# 176-10036-10018

## Page 1

176-10036-10018

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10018

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Aspect of Katangan Political Attitudes

DATE : 10/5/1962

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Congo Cables; restriction information innacurate/missing; box 1

---

## Page 2

pHENE NH4-01-031-6-1-011406

17

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPURT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

1610dd

contains Information

effecting

the National Defense of the

United Slates within

793 and 794, the

transmissron

or revelation

of which

any. manner to an unauthoried

parson is

prohibited

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL:

(When Milled In)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY

REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

ASPECTS OF KATANGAN POLITICAL ATTITUDES

AS OF EARLY 5 OCTOBER

DATE DISTR.

let one

onage, Lams, Tolle 1Bmd1:5.C Sees

FILE

IT-BUNDE

-DUNGAN

KAYSEN

F

EN

5 OCTOBER 1962 HLESINGER

PRECEDENCE

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL 2

REFERENCES

4-5 OCTOBER 1962

REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

ELISABETHVILLE (5 OCTOBER 1962)

REPORT NO.

ROUT INE

_BalK.

_FOR'ESTAI

TN: 964

IN 348N

_ BONIER

-..

DERS

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

KETAIN OR DESTROY

PROVINCIAL

- 1/T.SHOMBE PERSONALLY IS READY TO ACCEPT RECONCILIATION BUT

HAS ALLOWED HIS EUROPEAN ADVISORS TO PERSUADE HIM TO INSIST ON

KATANGAN EXPERTS PARTICIPATING IN DISCUSSIONS OF

A FEDERAL CONSTITUTION, PROFESSOR, RENE CLEMENS IS PRESSING ON

TSHOMBE HIS VIEW THAT AGREEMENT OF A FEDERAL CONSTITUTION MUST

PRECEED ANY AGREEMENT BY THE MIXED COMMISSIONS TO IMPLEMENT THE

RECONCILIATION PLAN. KATANGANS BELIEVE A DRAFT CONSTITUTION,

WHICH RESEMBLES THE FUNDAMENTAL LAW AND DOES NOT FOLLOW THE UN

PLAN, HAS ALREADY BEEN COMPLETED IN LEOPOLDVILLE.

2. TSHOMBE AND HIS MINISTERS WERE STRONGLY IMPRESSED BY WHAT

IHEY REGARD AS IHE CONGO NATIONAL ARMY COUP DE FORCE IN SOUTH

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CROUP 1

Escluded from aule

demagrading o

STATE/ INR

ARMY/ACSI, HAVY

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

SECDEF

NSA NIC

OCI ONE

EXO

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

TORM .1KO OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

5-02

(15-20

---

## Page 3

17

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

PAGE

KASAÏ.. THEY ARE NOW WORRIED FOR THEIR OWN SKINS AND NO LONGER

SPEND THEIR NIGHTS IN ELISABETHVILLE. TSHOMBE HAS HAD A SPECIAL

ROAD TO KIPUSHI AND INTO THE BUSH PREPARED IN. CASE THE UN SHOULD

TRY TO ARREST HIM AND HE MUST SUDDENLY LEAVE ELISABETHVILLE.

30 KATANGAN LEADERS PROFESS TO ACTUALLY BELIEVE UNOC CHIEF

ROBERT GARDINER LEFT ELISABETHVILLE 4 OCTOBER MORE OR LESS

CONVINCED TSHOMBE WANTS RECONCILIATION. THEY BELIEVE GARDINER

CENTRAL CONGO GOVERNMENT PRIME MINISTE

WILL SEEK TO PERSUADE ADOULA TO BE MORE MODERATE IN HIS DEMANDS

ON KATANGA.

4. BOTH TSHÖMBE AND HIS ADVISORS ARE PLEASED AND FLATTERED

BY UNDER SECRETARY OF STATE GEORGE MCGHEEIS VISIT TO ELISABETHVILLE

AND ARE DETERMINED TO GIV: HIM A GOOD RECEFTION. IT IS REPORTED

GOVERNMENT OF KATANGA (GOK)

WITHIN THE / THAT MCGHEE HAS ALREADY ASKED ISHOMBE NOT DELAY

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE UN PLAN; IF HE DOES DELAY, THE U.S. GOVERNMENT

WILL SUPPORT ECONOMIC PRESSURES AGAINST KATANGA.

5.. FIELD DISSEM: STATE, CINCLANT.

2

nis!!

i*:

COALIDSSO

CONFIDENTIAL

LITE

Fill:

not fai:

END...OF MESSAGE:

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:

ChAiNs : NO FOREIGN DISSEM::

1M.O007OR 610011

---

