# 176-10036-10337

## Page 1

176-10036-10337

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10337

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files: William H. Brubeck

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : NUJFK

FROM :

тО :

TITLE : John F. Kennedy document Control Record

DATE : 12/11/1962

PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 382: Congo 12/62. Box 3.

---

## Page 2

SECRET

CENTRAL

IRTELLIGENCA

GERICE OF MATICAL SAMIS

AGBICI

19. Docentar 1962

THATT

THIS FROKERS

To 640em (0) the Itkely course of soutet notion in the

event of ll ulthármit tron the Congos and (D) the erfect en

othen Átricon eltation es e reait of a estherni.

Ii.

the fortet thian still reguils the Congo an e potentialiy

ogpartunity to enhance its poettion to knitte, at the eme time,

the that tan come to i

ate the astetcuttico end uncertatrilen

of eftecttv patttical notton in the congo, Cancegatly, taoul

the sortete soulá ern

the W's cult as e so

the beats

the teen ities? touts

ou cont tents in tha

Congo, tearing mother tien reminiscent of that into shich it salt

in 1960.

SECRET

108

---

## Page 3

SECRET

In adaiston, the retuctance de most Africao statee to

set the rootntroduction of the Cold tig into the canttneut, end

soviet concern that its pottetes are not in aucard with the mutu

atres of Afetcon epintoo, mala serve an importent Ltaitettone die

tie acoge and tining of sortet estion.

merefore, the loss would

probably nock fient to entet sumurt for its poltelas fron rediat

Aericano who toutd Lage to profit most in the Colgo is CuBe, Brah

dal Ben fatle dy protiatos then acus de logletie nugart euch

as troop attita

I attainmed vouta alon binge as the

politival ortantation l the Conqutone governt. un vitaderal

wond probably porigitate Adole'a dutili. he wouid robably te

sucaineral by entrentate cympathetto to Arciom radicalton and seaty

to secept soviet holy. In the event of atontero dentee, e mise

rattert rugh couta epect to reonive stuntent astrtme enm

both Arelem sul sortet murces. Hoevar, Soviet exportenca has

ts ragoni contitantly to lovies adrior, luch lan alov politiest.

nematton evin the Congo.

sooplte thou kanarto, it se elost ontada chet the tast

wad offer wiistmy it ernonte nsstateon to my Congolene errar

nent in the tale ot

un departure, Homer, e

so the cinfuston aul

mon tainter in

etnation out tastette and other soblem

-8.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

incinding the yosetttty of remedntng US and

the Bortal entout ta Ittely to be tentative and astective, without

major cond tunto of nca or materiale. Sortet utittery aestatunce

vould probably tais the torn of arms and the

ralon at sators

and some technetie, toey night even go

no for as to provide

sou pilots, She lato ala soute probably be to butti a more 50

stented pr

, through coononte ascletonse and gropngend, end

to smuver tor adntage vithous becontay comtited to the eneçot

of the cornment or my faetton, mohate hoping that ama vinde

(a) So Modem tonetton to a vithtapal of the a farce in the

Conso would Do wined

Abricens eig the

obitention of the

the went in gent, the tiffttaint ot

when to escort

stabiitty in the Conso ind in eronning

entitien, would suit the uithdren and conten the font for sti

ele necde ond

ALONE

sertone - the rollerte

he want part w die

to boto time dun bran

the Congr

L 10:E6011

= 3-

---

## Page 5

SECRET

htravel, couplad utth dimntehcd tentern greuttes

and e nore ettedtivo tior mreyence ntght sendt in dtegnedory emforto

by eutonta ant nnttogattets to liverata fenfting colodat arura

by vtolent msaise

she ertect wonld probehly te felt inttialty du

Aingoïa stero fue Usn baà beon aselitna e seuno to asntet the sobete.

Increstadintafenco in Angota end tareata to tho mhodostas nnd senye.

nouta to countareá by pigurona actton by dte hard thite ectttetr

Incrensing the deiger of unlte-blnck cintostattone mch of foutiaia

Arptes,

To de ovento miutoving ul vithtraras producel both e rem.

tuctica in the instunce of tho teet snd en fusrence in the rate oe

the Afritcan extranteta et satca the covteta nuro alite es take nde

Pences to 10er

teae oina rotes the conpo nouta be zibaty tep

Decono & bade taun vi

tcs revolation and inetevtiity stoned suto

mmondng turitortel. Hiet (reater Soriet Sreedon of eotion

mnà maro mpport ron tam esvarmint, the Congs vnuta bacone e nich

uoro esssottro nnt daner

ins buns 10r hapolone isbole.eud

menh be uncd zn thi

diertaont and ruvalattonacy etetenta

Exsm the Fhodonkm, Conth Atitte and Ofter nekg

Ponsine tenitartos

sartat ure al the opoctu

LeB T

musonted unta rertect thete dectaton

aò to hợy min nầm

Tã min tat

maltey snl

zrontón u boreuda dr it suotà de ramuteud to trtng is interven

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

Be

He tellure that the coviety souta te liraty to agve

Matrly aloaty ad thit tue reaction to the vtt

tuld te dram out. On batence, horver; the Ul Istance tan

represented o comitut at tha fort to arder md steatitty ta

contral Atros ent les vitres toutà te ithi to encourage a

SECRET

---

