# 176-10036-10096

## Page 1

176-10036-10096]

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10096

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO

TITLE : Central Intelligence Agency Information Report

DATE : 4/24/1963

PAGES : 7y 3

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 4/63-5/63. Box 2

---

## Page 2

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

DATE OF

INFO.

information affecting

die revelatin othe

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ich in any menses to an unaberstade berithi

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

TELEGRAM

Murd

the Espronage Laws, Tille 18, U.S.C

Sece

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-L

SOUTH VIETNAM

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO. TOCS - 3/544,940

COMMENIS OF NGO DINH NHU ON DECREASING THE DATE DISTR. 24 APRIL 1963

NUMBER OF AMERICANS IN SOUTH VIEINAM AND

ON AMERICAN AID

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

12 APRIL 1963

REFERENCES

IN 24209

VIETNAM, SAIGON (12 APRIL 1963)

SEE BELOW

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS -8830

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

APPR

1. SUMMARY.

THAT HE FAVORS A REDUCTION

IN THE NUMBER OF AMERICANS IN SOUTH VIETNAM AND SOME REVISION IN THE AID PROGRAM;

AND, THAI PRESIDENT DIEM HAS RECEIVED COMPLAINTS ABOUF RELAIIONSHIPS INWEEN Ire

OFFICIALS AND THEIR AMERICAN COUNTERPARIS.

SAID ON 12 APRIL 1963 THAT THE NUMEER OF AMERICANS IN BOUTH

VIETNAM SHOULD HE REDUCED BY ANYWHERE FROM 500 TO 9,000 OR 4,000. WIN THE

AMERICANS FIRST ARRIVED, NEU COMMENTED, THEY WERE HIGHLY REBPROSED ENGAUSE THEY WERE

VERY HARD-WORKING, DISCIPLINED, AND WITHOUT RANCOR AMONG THEMSELVES OR TOWARD

OTHER PERSONS; HOWEVER, THE PROCESS OF DIECIPLINE HAS HROKEN DOWN WICH THE

PASSAGE OF TIME AND THE INCREAGED NUMEUR OF AMERICANS IN BOUSH VIETNAM.

CLASSIPICATION = DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-I-N-I-I-A-I

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TATE/INA

DIA AOMY/ACA!, NAYY

STATC/OI

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

198R

ESWAgISEIRg

BAS

TELEGRAM

FORM IKO OBSOLETE PREVIOUE SEITIONE.

GENITITEM

med 01: 197-6-7-2-4112

(18-10)

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS - 3/544,940

24209

PAGE 2

INITIÄLLY, THE INFLUX OF AMERICANS AND-THEIR STATIONING IN THE

PROVINCES WAS WELCOMED, WITH THE THOUGHT THAT AMERICANS THUS

LOCATED WOULD COME TO UNDERSTAND THE DIFFICULTIES CONFRONTING

THE VIETNAMESE, THEREBY ENABLING THEM TO INTERPRET VIETNAMESE

PROBLEMS SYMPATHETICALLY AND WITH MORE KNOWLEDGE OF THE SITUATION.

THIS HAS NOT PROVED TO BE THE CASE IN ALL INSTANCES.

3: PRESIDENT DIEM HAS RECEIVED A CONSIDERABLE NUMBER. OF

COMPLAINTS AND STATEMENTS OF IRRITATION FROM HIS MILITARY AND

CIVILIAN CHIEFS. ABOUT PROBLEMS OF RELATIONSHIPS WITH AMERICAN

COUNTERPARTS,

AMONG. OFFICIALS COMPLAINING WAS MAJOR GENERAL

TON THAT DINH, COMMANDING GENERAL, II CORPS, WHO COMMENTED. THAT

THERE WERE: TOO MANY AMERICANS IN SOUTH VIETNAM.

COMPLAINTS HAVE

ALSO COME IN FROM THE JOINT GENERAL STAFF:

SAID THAT ONE

ADVANTAGE OF THE AMERICAN PRESENCE AT ALL ECHELONS WAS TO HELP

KEEP VIETNAMESE OFFICIALS HONEST AND TO STIMULATE THEM INTO

BETTER PERFORMANCE, AS VIETNAMESE OFFICIALS DID NOT WANT TO LOOK

BAD IN THE EYES OF FOREIGN OFFICERS: THE VIETNAMESE OFFICIALS

WERE AT A DISADVANTAGE WITH RESPECT TO THEIR AMERICAN OPPOSITE

NUMBERS, BECAUSE THE AMERICANS CONTROLLED THE MEANS, I.E., THE

FUNDS AND GOODS, AND THIS CONTRIBUTED TO THE SENSE OF INADEQUACY

AND INFERIORITY ON THE PART OF VIETNAMESE OFFICIALS.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENT

FORM IK-1.

USE. PREVIOUS

1-63

EDITIONS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

MFG. 2•63

(15-20-44-47)

CUNTINUATION, OF TACS: INFORMATION REPONS

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS-3/544,940

IN

24209

PAGE

.3

4. COMMENTING ON U.S. AID,

SAID: THAT SOME ECONOMIC AID

SHOULD BE AUGMENTED, SOME AID SHOULD BE PROGRAMMED-FOR EVENTUAL

ELIMINATION, SOME: FORMS OF AID SHOULD BE PROGRAMMED. FOR ELIMINATION

SOMEWHAT SOONER, AND SOME COULD BE ELIMINATED ALMOST IMMEDIATELY.

5.

HMADQUARTERS COMMENT TDCS-3/544,53) (TVS-8804) REPORTED THAT AT THE

IRTING OF TH IVTERMINISIBRIAL COMMITTES ON STRATEGIC HAMLETS, NEW STATED

THAT AMERICAN AID SHOULD BE PLACED IN THE FOLLOWING CATEGORIES OF PRIORITY: FIRST;

AID WHICH THE GOVERNMENT OF VIEINAM (GVN) MUST CONTINUE TO RECEIVE, INDEFINITELY,

SPECIFICALLY THE MEANS OF PRODUCTION, IN WHICH CATEGORY THE GVN WOULD SEEK NEITHER

A REDUCTION NOR AN INCREASE; SECOND, AID WHICH CAN BE EVENIUALLY PHASED OUT; THIRD,

AID WHICH CAN HE TERMINATED IN THE NEAR FUTURE; AND, FOURTH, AID WHICH CAN BE

TERMINAIED IMMEDIATELY.

6. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACY MAAG AID USIA 2ND AIR

DIVISION 9IH FIELD STATION CINCPAC PACFLT . ARPAC PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

FORAA 1K-8

1-63

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTINUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

MFG, 2-63

(15-20-44-47)

---

