# 176-10036-10052

## Page 1

176-10036-10052

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10052

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Central Intelligence Agency Information Report

DATE: 6/28/1963

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 48: Cuban Subjects: Exiles information

report. Box 1

---

## Page 2

TELEGRAM

INTORMATION REP-RT

TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Cale-lub BUNDY-SMITH

inie material contoine in ormation

allecsing the National Defense

United States

meaning

791 and 794.

the transmissina

ur resalation of which in any manner to an

unauthorised

prohibited

one Espionage

toms BEtalio, U.s.c secs.

_CHASE

SECRET

(Wher FiLled Ia

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

- DINGEMAN

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- DUNGAN

FELDMAN

COUNTRY

CUBA

REPORT NO. TDCS 3/551, 8660RRESTAL

HIRSCH

SUBJECT

CUBAN EXILE FLANS

DATE DISTR.

28 JUNE

196J0HNSON

RAYSEN

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

- KILDUFF

KLEIN

DATE OF MID-JUNE 1953

REFERENCES

. INFO.

PLACE &

ENGLANdS CANONY

(27 JUNE 1963)

SAUNDERS

DATE ACO.

SCHLESINGER

APPRAISAL 3

FIELD REPORT NO.

OEL

.3566ямттн

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTEMS WERE AME.

SOURCE

AN OFFICIAL

SERVICE FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED AS "WELL KNOWN AND

• EXPERIENCED IN REPORTING, PROBABLY. RELIABLE,. QUOTING THE PERSONS MENTIONED".

1. AMAURY FRAGINALS ALONSO, ONE OF THE LEADERS IN THE ALLIANCE

BETWEEN THE MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO POPULAR (POPULAR REVOLUTIONARY

MOVEMENT - MRP), THE SECOND FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY AND ALPHA 66, CLAIMED

IN CONFIDENTIAL DISCUSSION PURING A VISIT TO VENEZUELA IN MID JUNE 63

THAT THE ALLIANCE WILL CONTINUE TO ATTACK THE CUBAN MAINLAND.

AT THE SAME TIME, PLANS ARE GOING AHEAD TO LAUNCH PLAN OMEGA.

"FRAGINALS SAID THAT PLAN OMEGA HAS THREE STAGES: (A) REORGANIZATION

AND ARMING OF GUERRILLA GROUPS THROUGHOUT CUBA WHICH WILL BE LED BY

LOCAL MEN WHO KNOW THEIR AREA;

(B) INCESSANT QUERRILLA ATTACKS AGAINST RUSSIAN BASES, THE CUBA:

CLASSIFICATION • DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE/INR

DIA ARMY/ACS NAVY

AIR T ICS

SECDEF

NSA MIC AID. USIA OCI

ONE

TATE/DIR

I&NS

TELEGRAM

TREASURY

INFORMATION REPORT

CHOUD I

Escluded from outamase

damngrodung and

declarmicenan

OCR

ORR

0B1

00

EXO:

TELEGRAM

. 1K OBSOLETE FREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(15-20)

---

## Page 3

SECRET

(When Fulled Irs)

CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS=3/551,866

IN

69883

PAGE Z

ARMY AND THE MILITIA.

THE PURPOSE OF THESE WILL BE TO CAUSE MATERIAL

DAMAGE TO THE CUBAN ARMED FORCES, UNDERMINE THEIR MORALE AND RAISE

THE MORALE OF THE CIVILIAN POPULATION IN PREPARATION FOR AN INSURRECTION;

(C) COORDINATION AND CONTROL OF A GENERAL INSURRECTION:

2.: FRAGINALS REMÄRKED THAT THE REORGANIZATION OF GUERRILLA GROUPS

1S PROGRESSING SATISFACTORILY BUT THAT. THERE IS AN INSUFFICIENCY

OF FUNDS.

HE REVEALED THAT THE ALLIANCE IS RECEIVING BLUE-PRINTS,

FROM INSIDE CUBA, OF MAJOR PLANTS. THEY INCLUDE INFORMATION ABOUT THEIR

FUNCTIONS, SHIFTS, AS WELL AS THE NUMBER AND DEPLOYMENT OF QUARDS..

THE BLUE PRINTS ARE TRANSMITTED BY COURIER OR LETTER AND WILL BE

USED FOR PLAN OMEGA,

3. FRAQINALS DESCRIBED THE LATEST ADHERENT TO THE ALLIANCE,

THE FRENTE ANTI-COMMUNISTA DE LIBERACION (ANTI-COMMUNIST LIBERATION

FRONT - FAL), AS A CLANDESTINE GROUP WITHIN THE CUBAN ARMY. HE

RÉFUSED TO GIVE FIGURES BUT ALLEGED THAT THE GROUP WAS EXPANDING AND

WOULD BE AN IMPORTANT FACTOR IN THE "FORTHEOMING WAR" IN CUBA.

HE CONFIRMED THE ALLIANCE'S DETERMINATION TO WAGE WAR ON FIDELICASTRO'S

REGIME, EVEN AT THE RISK OF PRECIPITATING A NUCLEAR CONFLI GTaY UD#88:

4.

FIELD DISSEMI STATE, GINCLANT, CINCSO.

-243:0013

moon/ed!

SECRET

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTAOLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

DistriVa

MADE R00113

---

