# 176-10037-10491

## Page 1

176-10037-10491

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER

: 176-10037-10491

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Information Report Re: Appeal to President Kennedy

DATE : 1/24/1962

PAGES :2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE.OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 195: Countries, Vietnam, General

11/13/61-11/31/61. Box 6.

---

## Page 2

prop: 11.00.

TELEGRAM IN ORMATION REP RT TELEGRAM

793:ade794, a ins conting information ofiecting the National-Defense: el the Untted States within the meanine ol thé Esplonage Laws, Title 18, U:S.C. Sees.

793 and 794, The transmission er: revelation of which In any manner.to:ununauthoried/parson/s.prohibited by lei.

.CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

-N-F-I-DEN-I--A-I

NOFORN CONTINUED CONTROL

FILE

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

CAMBODIA/ SOUTE VIETNAM

APPEAL TO PRESIDENT KENNEDY BY

SOUTH VIEINAMESE REBEL OFFICERS

IN: PENOM PENE

REPÖRT NO.

TDCS -3/499,631

DATE DISTR.

24 JANUARY 1962

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

20 JANUARY 1962

CAMBODIA, PHNOM PUNE (20 JANUARY 1962)

REFERENCES

IN -15274

DATE ACQ.

APPRAISAL

FIELD REPORT NO.

FDP. 1560

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION: SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE: APPRAISAL OF CONTENT.IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

1. ON 20 JANUARY 1962 MAJOR PHAM: VAN LIEU, FORMER COMMANDER OF THE SOUTE

VIEINAM (SVN) MARINE CORPS AND MEMBER OF A GROUP OF SUN REBEL OFFICERS IN

PROTECTIVE CUSTORY BY: THE CAMBODIAN : GOVERNMENT, PRESENTED A PROPOSAL FROM HIS

GROUP TO THE UNITHD STATES EMBASSY IN PENOM PENH ADDRESSED JO PRESIDENT KENNEDY

WITH A COVER LETIER TO AMBASSADOR TRIMBLE.

THES PROPOSAL SIGNED BY THFIR LEADER

COLONEL NGUYMN CHANH THAI AND OIHUR OFTICERS IN THE GROUP, CONTAINED A LIST OF.

COMPLAINTS AGAINST THE DIEM GOVERNMENT'S CORRUPT AND INFICIENT MELEODS OF

OPPOSING THE VIEYNAMESE COMMUNISTS' (VC), IT SUGGESTED THAT: PRESIDENT KENNEDY

REAPPRAISE THE US POLICY TOWARD HE DIEN COVERMENT AND UNSAT AND REPLACE

IT WITH A GOVERNMENT TRULY REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SVN PEOPLE.

THE PROPOSAL WAS

PRESENTED IN TWO COPIES, EACH ONE HAVING ONE INCTISE, PRECH AND A VIETNAMESE

-CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

190 NCE PIA-T-I-A-I

S STATE.

" ARMY/ACSI

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

NAVY AIR: JCS SECDEFNSA NIC USIAOCIONE OCR ORR: 00/AIDI

TELEGRAM UNFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

•A-L

NOFORN/ CONTINUED CONTROL

TDCS- 3/499,631

IN

PAGE

15274

LANGUAGE VERSION.

2.

MAJOR LIEU TOLD AN EMBASSY OFFICER THAT. "COMPETENT CAMBODIAN AUTHORITIES"

WARE PLANNING TO RELEASE HIS GROUP FROM CUSTODY BY THE IND OF JANUARY. HE SAID

PRINCE, SIRANOUK HAD APPROVED, AND THAT A CAMBODIAN GOVERNMINT SECURITY SERVICE WAS

OBIATNING DOCUMENTATION FOR THE GROUP. WHEN ASKED WHAT TEMIR PLANS WERE AFT

THEX WERE RELEASED, MAJOR LIEU SAID THAT THEY WERE STILL HOPING FOR ASYLUM IN THE

UNTID STATES AND WOULD AT LEAST LIKE TO MAINIAIN CONTACT WITH US EMBASSY OFFICERS.

SINCE NOTHING COULD BE DONE TO REMEDY THE SITUATION IN SVN UNTIL DIEM WAS

ELIMINATED;

THEY WOULD FIGHT DIEM FIRST AND THE VC SECOND.

BEADQUARTERS COMMENT.

SEE CS-3/486,609 AND FDP 1168/IDCS-3/473,682

IN WHICH?

AJOR LIEU SAID THAT HIS GROUP WAS CONSIDERING JOINING THE SOUTH

FUBERATION ORGANIZATION..

ELD DISSEM: SIATE, ARMY, CINCPAC, PACFLI, ARPAÇ, -PACAT

END OF MESSAGE

f-I-I-A-I

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NOFORN/ CONTINUED CONIROL

---

