# 176-10011-10135

## Page 1

176-10011-10135

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2016

AGENCY :

NARA

RECORD NUMBER:

176-10011-10135

RECORD SERIES: NSF

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

WH

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

MAIN POINTS TO CONSIDER

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/26/1962

3

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

UPON AGENCY REVIEW

COMMENTS : NSF:M&M:SPECIAL GROUP(AUGMENTED): 10/62-12/62:BOX 319:PENDING NLK-90-51

v9.1

---

## Page 2

• WHY SUK

SENSITIVE

Mr. McGeorge Bundy

SAMITIZED IK.11.671%1

OPERATION MONGOOSE

Main Pointe to Consider

26 @ctober 1962

What le the Policy Objective? We need a sharp focus on

exactly what we hope to get from Mongoose now. This will determine

how best to employ these unique U.S. resourced - either to support

V.S. military operations or directly to commit against the Communit

regime immediately..

Is the end objective the removal of the Gastro/Communist

regime or to bring it to its kneen? Should Mongoose help generate

a popular revolt with the probable need for overt U.s. military help

as the regime moves in to crush it? Or, is the aim that of maximum

harasement, to make Cuba a maximum burden for the Bloc?

Undoubtedly, most people in the world now expect ue to move

towarde removing the Castro/Communat regime. Certainly the

Cubans in estle and innide Cuba, who are the main covert andeta el

ClA, now expect this polley goal so the price of rialing their livee.

z.

Mongoose Actions

a. Harassment of and restatance to Cuban regime.

Statue: 3 teams (2 - to 5-man) en route by small craft

today. 6 teams by submarine, starting tomorrow. One

more team being readted to go in by amall crait. 10 more

teams being readied to go by submarine shortly. One team

now in Oriente and one tear in Piner del Rio. All teame

have W/T. arme, explosives.

of

b. Cuban owned shipping (22 shipe). Sink in Cuban of Bloe

, ports, or high seas. Sabotage cargoes. Make crewe inoperative.

Status: CIA has ll aesete aboard Cuban-owned abipe.

Action ordere have gone to Hamburg, for action. Other

action pending.

Propagands delivered to Cuba by balloon from ship.

Status: ClA doea not have capabllity yet.

SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

REGRADING: DOD DIR 5200.10

DOES NOT APPLY

---

## Page 3

TOP SEUNCI

SENSITIVE

d.

Major acte of sabotage against listed targeta of ore

production, POl atorago, power plante, trantport, communications.

Statue: Teams being trained for major sabotage were

made part of teame now being sent in by submarine. (SAM

sites de. Sovlet techniciane are not targete.)

Minor acte of nabotage, by all Cuban people. Requiree

delivery of instructions, of how to do it, to Guban people.

Statas; No current capability indicated by CLA, Téame

going in for any purpose at this time should have this assiga-

ment.

1. Sabotage of sugar production and delivery.

Statue: No current capability. Now frylng to act against

shipmente of jure bagging.

Defect "name" personages of regime, to fraction the

regime, to exploit for political and psychological ende,

Statua: Minor elplomate being defected. Actions with

major personages unsuccessful so far. Special effort fu

miscated.

• h. Help the Cubana to help themsolves. Thie meand greater

•S. support of Cuban greuge to take actione in Cuba.

Statug: Under study. No firm plan yet for dolng.

Demonetratione of workers and farmore in Cuba, In

Latin America, agalost the Castro-Gommuniet regime. Such

demonstrations In Guba would abake the regime to ita core.

Status: International Longehoreman's Assoclation now

ralusing work Cuban cargods. No means yet for demonetia-

Mons inside Cuba, Special State/CIA action 1a indicated.

Expose responsible ladividuals in the Castro/Communist

regime, an a means towards relazing police-state contrale. Indiet

"peoples eriminale" fos justice alter the government le returned to

the people.

SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 4

• TOP SCREA

SENSITIVE

/

Status: No activity on specifle operation. However,

CIA now completing "black list of known Cuban intelligence

and security officials, In support of poseible U.S. military

operation. About 5,000 namea.

I Givo Cuban resietance popular symbole. Songo. Visual.

Status: No song yet. Viaual symbol is "gusano libre. "

1.

Political planning for post-Gastro period.

Statue: No firm planning roported from State. The need

V. for clear U.S. polley objectives le basie here..

100.

"Grusade" for human liberty, to make maximum use of

spiritual appeal. Prayero, such aa by Bishop Boza Masvidal, widely

publicizod inside Cuba. Take use of memory of Marti away from

Communiste and give it to Cuban "Ireedom fighters."

Status: Sporadie activities, not a "erasade."

U.S. or Free Cuban radio and TV broadcasts into Guba.

Statues USIA making masmum use of medium and short

wave radio facilities, Including CIA and commorcial resources.

No "Voice of Free Cuba" short wave broadcast acheduled

immediately. New 50-h radlo tranamitter espected to be

operational in Florida Keys neat week. TV broadcaste from

aircraft now under davelopment. (Being developed outaide

Mongoose.)

SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET

---

