# 177-10002-10105

## Page 1

(17-10002-10105]

JFK Assassination System'

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/6/2018

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

LBJ

177-10002-10105

NSF, CF, USSR, VOL. 21, BOX 226

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

CIA

SPECIAL REPORT--WEEKLY REVIEW

DATE: 09/13/1968

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS:

INTELLIGENCE REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; Mandatory Review Material

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/06/1994

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: DOC. #57

v9.1

---

## Page 2

TO:

2

3

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

James Mathis, Spec Access, NARA

V14/15

INITIALS

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

ACTION

APPROVAL

CONVENT

OONOURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FLE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. SC NO. 00787/68B [BJ

copy 3

OF

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO

ennifer Cuddeback, IBS Libran

DATE

1/14/15

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

---

## Page 3

Top Secret

5%

AGENCY

CANTO DING DE NIG

DIRECTORATE OF

INTELLIGENCE

The Developing Soviet Submarine Force

Special Report

WEEKLY REVIEW

Top Secret

1

13 September 1968

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 5

TOP SECRET

THE DEVELOPING SOVIET SUBMARINE FORCE

The Soviet naval leadership, commanding the

firing submarine-are in production, and several oldes

lasses are being improved and reconditioned. In ad

dition, since the early 1960s the range, number, and

duration of open ocean patrols by Soviet submarines

have been generally increasing.

Page :1

TOP SECRET

SPECIAL REPORT

13 Sep 68

---

## Page 6

TOP SECRET

Fleet Modernization

The new Polaris-type sub-

marine--designated the Y-class--

carries 16 SS-N-6 ballistic mis-

siles with ranges of some 1,500

miles.

These 425-foot-long sub-

marines. are currently being built

at Severodvinsk in the Soviet

Northern Fleet area.

The first

units should be operational soon

and 40 or more could be in serv-

ice by the mid-1970s.

Two new classes of nuclear-

powered attack submarines are

also being built--one at Lenin-

grad shipyard and the other at

Gorkly. At least one of these

classes probably was specifically

designed to engage enemy subma-

rines.

A third class of attack

submarine is under construction

in the Soviet Far East; its means

of propulsion is not yet known.

In addition to these new con-

struction programs, the Soviets

are reconditioning many of their

older classes of submarines.

There are no indications that

the Soviets intend to introduce

a new class of cruise-missile

submarine, however, and con-

struction of these submarines

is apparently ending as the

Soviets approach their desirec

force level for these

rier units.

Operational Implications

Strategic targets in the

midale of the US are beyond

reach of the 650-mile SS-N-5

carried on the older ballistic-

missile submarines, but are

within range of the SS-N-6

carried on the Y-class.

By

the mid-1970s, Soviet ballis-

tic-missile submarines may

present a strategic threat com-

parable to that of the US Polaris

fleet and be able to operate with

less risk of detection than

earlier classes of Soviet mis-

sile submarines.

The introduction of the new

classes of attack submarines

suggests that the Soviets are

attempting to come to grips

with the Polaris threat.

The

Soviets apparently are counting

on their submarines to help

blunt that threat by attempting

to destroy. Polaris submarines

before they cân launch their

missiles.

Soviet ballistic-missile

submarines frequently patrol

within range of US Polaris

bases and could destroy a num-

ber of Polaris submarines by

attacking these bases.

The

new Soviet attack submarines

may be able to locate and de-

stroy a few Polaris submarines

in confined waters through which

those submarines frequently

must pass, such as the Irish

Sea or the Sicilian Straits.

Combined operations with new

soviet suriace ships, such as

che Moskva-class helicopter car-

riers and Kresta- and Kashin-

class guided-missile ships,

will provide some antisubmarine

capability in the ocean approaches

Page

2

TOP SECRET

SPECIAL REPORT

13 Sep

• 68

---

## Page 7

TOP SECRET

The Soviet Submarine Force

Kaliningrador:

Severomorsk

000

Northern Fleet

Baltic Fleet

Black Sea Fleet

Pacific Fleet

Sevastopol

Nuclear-powered

Ballistic missile

Cruise missile

Attack

Diesel-powered

Ballistic missile

Cruise missile

Attack

8or00

Vladivostok

• Fleet Headquarters

BALLISTIC MISSILE SUBMARINES

Y-CLASS

Vuclear powere

arries 16 SS-N-6 missiles in hu

125 feet lon!

Vow being deploye

280

H-CLASS

Vuclear powere

arries three SS-N-4 or SS-N-5missiles in sa

380 feet long

9 in service

75B

G-CLASS

Diesel powered

Carries three SS-N-4 or SS-N-5 missiles in sail

320 feet long

22 in service

Z-CONVERSION CLASS

Diesel powered

Carries two SS-N-4 missiles in sail

295 feet long

6 in service

91848 8-08 CIA

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 8

TOP SECRET

Nuclear Powered

Ballistic Missile

Cruise Missile

Attack

CLASSES OF SOVIET SUBMARINES

E- 1

E-11

N

Diesel Powered

Ballistic Missile

Cruise Missile

Attack

One New Class "B"

& Conversion

i Conversion

Z

R

W

91870 8-68 CIA

to the USSR and in the Mediter-

ranean.

Deployment Patterns

Soviet submarines are as-

signed to each of the four

fleets--Northern, Pacific, Bal-

tic, and Black Sea.

Because

of the restricted exits from

the Baltic and Black Seas, how-

ever, most of the missile-

equipped units and all of the

nuclear-powered units are based

in ice-free ports of the Kola

Peninsula (Northern Fleet) and

in the Pacific Fleet.

The Soviets are apparently

trying to reduce the dispropor-

tion between the two major

fleets--the Northern and the

Pacific. Although the North-

ern Fleet still holds the favored

position,

several nuclear sub-

marines have been transferred

under the polar ice to the Pa-

cific and a number of modern

diesel units have joined the

Northern Sea Route convoy in

past summers.

The Baltic Fleet is re-

sponsible for protecting Soviet

coastal waters and for furnish-

ing diesel submarines for pa-

trols off the US Polaris base

at Holy Loch. Moscow has also

begun sending Baltic Fleet sub-

marines to the Mediterranean to

take some of the strain off the

Northern Fleet, which has been

furnishing most of the units

operating there.

nuclear submarines in the Bal-

tic, and the few cruise-missile

units there operate in coastal

waters.

The Montreux Convention

of 1936 places severe limita-

tions on the passage of Soviet

submarines through the Turkish

Straits.

Black Sea - based

submarines can pass into the

Mediterranean only if they are

headed for another fleet area

for repairs.

For this reason,

only older diesel units are

based in the Black Sea.

Once

in the Mediterranean, however,

these units operate there for

about 60 days on their way to

and from Baltic shipyards.

Patrol Activity

Most of the increase in

the level of Soviet submarine

perations during the past yea

s attributable to the station

ing of a force of six to ten

submarines--mostly diesel attack

units--in the Mediterranean since

Page 4

TOP SECRET

SPECIAL REPORT

13 Sep 68

---

## Page 9

TOP SECRET

June 196%; at least one nuclear

unit is usually included in

the force.

Patrols this year have been of

longer duration, however,

thereby resulting in more sub-

marine time at sea.

Soviet

Submarine Deployments

1965-1968

Conversion and overhaul

of first-generation ballistic-

Total 138

Total 116

Total 114

Total 102

77

43:

20l

2.

1965

1966

2

1967

NORTH

BALTIC

BLACK

Number of deployed units, not including routine interfleet transfers or fleet exercise participants.

15

10 1

1968

PACIFIC

91946 9-68 CIA

Page 5

TOP SECRET

SPECIAL REPORT

13 Sep 68

---

## Page 10

TOP SECRET

missile submarines and the re-

assignment of their crews to

new Y-class units have probably

been at least partly responsible

for the decline in ballistic-

missile submarine activity.

In

addition, the loss of a G-class

submarine in the Pacific in mid-

March apparently resulted in a

three-month standdown in patrols

by these units.

That incident

probably caused the Soviets to

implement new safety measures.

Moreover, as the Soviets prepare.

to deploy new Y-class submarines,

they may be reassessing the

military value of

sending their

diesel-powered units into the

mid-Atlantic and mid-Pacific

patrol areas.

older W-class units are equipped

to launch cruise missiles, but

chese.

too, operate only near

Soviet shores and probably are

being retired from service.

Recent patrols by diesel

attack submarines in the Medi-

terranean have been extended

to as long as six months through

the use of Arab and Yugoslav

ports for upkeep, reprovision-

ing, and crew recreation. Pre-

vious patrols by Soviet sub-

marines in

the Mediterranean

had lasted less than two months.

a

series of single E-class units

has been almost continuously

present in the Mediterranean.

Some of the submarines on re-

cent patrols have also engaged

in other activities such as

hydroacoustic research and

support of naval training ma-

neuvers. J-class diesel-powered

cruise-missile submarines ap-

parently have been used primarily

•or peripheral defense.

In

late

1966, the first of these

units to venture into the

Mediterranean broke down and

limped back to its base in the

Northern Fleet. Some of the

Last year, a submarine

support group

operated

for nearly

six months off the west coast

of Africa in a program to study

the feasibility of submarine

operations from a floating base.

The group consisted of a sub-

marine tender and a missile

supply ship, and was assisted

briefly by a survey vessel and

two intelligence collection

ships.

Several other ships

provided logistic support.

Four

submarines participated in the

group's operations.

these--a nuclear-powered unit--

was away from home waters for

more than six months.

Once the new ballistic-mis-

sile submarines go on patrol,

the Soviets may make greater

use of such floating support bases

Floating base

Page 6

TOP SECRET

SPECIAL REPORT

13 Sep 68

---

## Page 11

EA

TOP SECRET

Soviet

Submarine-Launched

Missiles

1500 mm range

-(Covers alkUS)

* 650 num ange

100 fathom line

300 mm

line

CRUISE

MISSILE

US

DESIGNATION

SS-N-3

10C

1961

OPERATIONAL

WARHEAD

RANGE

WEIGHT

250 NM

1,000-

2,000 Ibs.

BALLISTIC

MISSILES

SS-N-4

1960

300 NM

About

2,200 lbs

SS-N-5

1963

650 NM

SS-N-6

Probably

1968

1,500 NM

1,600-

2,400 lbs

700-

1,700 Ibs

REMARKS

Carried by E-l and E-lI-

class nuclear submarines

and by J-class diesel units.

A few W-class diesel torpedo

attack submarines were modified

to carry this missile. Surface

launched.

Carried by most G-class

diesel submarines and by

some H-class nuclear units.

A few Z-class diesel torpedo

attack submarines were

modified to carry this missile.

Surface launched.

Carried by most H-class

nuclear submarines and by

some G-class diesel units.

Underwater launched.

Probably intended for the

new Y-class nuclear sub-

marines. These 16-tube

Polaris-type units first

went into service in

mid-1968.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 12

TOP SECRET

wartime, but ballistic-missile

submarines operating from such

bases south of the Azores, for

example, could remain on-station

off the

Us coast longer

than

could units deployed from the

Kola area.

Cruise-missile and

attack submarines would also

profit from mid-ocean bases,

reducing the number of long

transits to and from patrol

areas.

The USSR recently has

achieved several technological

advances in submarine support.

New

and more powerful radio

transmitters

serving submarines

on distant patrols are now in

operation in the USSR. A navi-

gation satellite

system cur-

rently being tested may permit

Soviet submarines to determine

their positions with greater

accuracy even inthe most un-

favorable weather and sea con-

ditions.

Hydroacoustic re-

search ships have conducted

surveys in the past few years

in areas of the Atlantic and

Pacific where the Soviets might

ope to detect Polaris subma

ines and in the Canary Islan

Basin and Philippine Sea where

they may intend to operate their

own submarines.

*

*

Page

TOP SECRET

SPECIAL REPORT

13 Sep 68

---

## Page 13

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 14

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/6/2018

AGENCY:

LBJ

RECORD NUMBER:

177-10002-10105

RECORD SERIES :

NSF, CF, USSR, VOL. 21, BOX 226

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

CIA

SPECIAL REPORT--WEEKLY REVIEW

DATE: 09/13/1968

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

INTELLIGENCE REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; Mandatory Review Material

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/06/1994

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

DOC. #57

v9.1

---

