177-10001-10019)

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

8/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: LBI
RECORD NUMBER: —177-10001-10019
RECORD SERIES: NSF, INTELLIGENCE FILE, OSWALD, LEE HARVEY, BOX 9
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO: FBI
TITLE
DATE: 11/27/1963
PAGES: 6
SUBJECTS :
CIA
DOCUMENT TYPE: CABLES
CLASSIFICATION; Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: LA; 1B; 1C
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 11/14/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

DOC. #27, CIA, E.O. 12356, Sec. 1.3(a)(4)

v9.1

23

HW 50955 DocId:32262859 Page 1


at

DE 85199 27/B1S0Z NOV ¥
0 2781392
FN CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE A@BNCY ssh

TO FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WHITE HOUSE INTERNATIONAL SITUATION RGOM ATTN: MCGEORGE BUNDY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE ATTN: MR. Us. ALEXIS JOHNSON

"7 aa

ey ECR

SECRET SECTION ONE OF THO

SUBJECT: LEE HK. OSWALD

REF: OUT MESSAGE NO, 35889 (DE 85089)

te FOLLOWING ELICITED FROM GILBERTO NOLASCO ALVARADO UGARTE
26 NOVEMBER.

2. SUBJECT BORN 31 JANUARY 1948, CIUDAD RAMA, Deere
ZELAYA, NICARAGUA. PRESENTLY LIVES PING 173 COLONIASANTA MARIA DE
LA RIBERA TELEPHONE 41-97-31. ENTERED MEXICO AY BUS 29 AUGUST
1963 ON WAY TO CUBA TO STUDY GUERRILLA WARFARE TACTICS. WAS TO
RECEIVE FALSE DOCUMENTATION AS MEXICAN THROUGH CUBAN CONSULATE
MEXICO. ADMITTED HE REALLY ON PENETRATION MISSION FOR NICARAGUAN

SECRET SERVICE, REPORTS TO HAJOR ROGER EZ, NICARAGUAN HILITARY

ATTACHE, PASAJE LATINO, INTERIOR 515,

PHONE 46-53-87, MEXICO

CITY.

HW 50955 DocId:32282859 Page 2


“3. GN @ SEP SUBU REPORTED IN WEXICO TO PROFESSOR EDELBERTO

TORRES, ADDRESS CENERAL ZUAZUA NUMBER 37, INTERIOR 8. TORRES 15
NICARAGUAN IN CHARGE OF NICARAGUAN CONMUNIST PARTY TRAVELLERS TO
CUBA. WELL KNOWN COMMUNIST, HAS DAUGHTER IN MOSCOW.

4, ON 2 SEP SUBJ DISCUSSED ANTI-SOMOZA GUERRILLA ACTIVITY IN
DEPARTANENTO ATLANTICO WITH TORRES AND BROTHERS GUSTAVO AND HUMBERTO
JEREZ TALAVERA, NO RELATION TO MAJOR ROGER JEREZ (MENTICNED
PARA 2 ABOVE). HUMBERTO IS TEACHER IN MEXICAN FEMALE NORMAL SCHOOL.

TORRES TOLD SUBJECT HE WOULD RECEIVE FIVE H RED MEXICAN
PESOS MONTHLY SUBSISTENCE UNTIL TRAVEL PAPERS ARRANGED.

5. aT NOON ON 18 SEP SUBJECT WENT TO CUBAN CONSULATE TO TURN
PASSPORT PHOTOS OVER TO CGNSUL AZCUE. CEUSEBIO AZCUR CONSUL
CUBAN EMB MEXICO CITY) SAT IN WAITING ROOM AND SAY GROUP OF APPROK
EIGHT PERSONS ENTER CONSULATE AND SO INTO AZCUE OFFICE BUT

UNKNOWN PERSON WAS SITT NG AT AZCUE D
OF CONSULATE KNOWN TO SUBJ BY ALIAS AS

6 CUBAN EMPLO
“JUAN JOSE," ABOUT 46 YEARS OLD, MUSTACHE, NORMAL EBUILD, STRAIGHT
HAIR, CAME OUT OF OFFICE AND ASKED SUBJ TO TURN OVER PHOTOS.

SUBJ ASKED WHERE BATHROOM AND WAS SHOWN THROUGH DOOR TO PASSAGEWAY
“LEADING TO PATIO, BATHROOM OFF PASSAGEWAY.

7. WHILE STANDING BY BATHRSOM DOOR SUBJ SAW GROUP OF 3 PERSONS

‘CONVERSING IN PATIO FEW FEET AWAY. ONE WAS TALL, THIN, NEGRO

WITH REDDISH HAIR, OBVIOUSLY DYED, PROMINENT CHEEK B » NOTICABLE
SCAR ON LOWER RIGHT SIDE OF CHIN. RAPID SPEAKER, CUBAN, ACCENT,
SPOKE SOME ENGLISH. ANOTHER WAS WHITE PERSON SUBd HAD PREVIOUSLY
SEEN CARRYING CANADIAN PASSPORT IN WAITING ROGM. CANADIAN HAD
OREEN EYES, BLONDISH HAIR, “EXISTENSTALIST™ HAIRDO WITH PONPA-

DOUR, DARK EYEGLASSES OF TYPE WITH MIRROR LIKE REFLECTION

ON OUTER SURFACE. THRID PERSON WAS LEE HARVEY OSWALD. | SUBJ
COMPLETELY CONVINCED FROM PUBLISHED PHOTOS THAT THIS WAS OSWALD,
\ WOT SHADOW OF DORT IN HIS MIND.

HW 50955 DocId:32282859 Page 3


8. OSWALD WAS WEARING BLACK SPORT COST, BUTTONED UP WHITE
SHIRT WITK SHORT COLLAR TABS, NOC TIE, DARK AY PANTS, CLEAR

EYEGLASSES.

9. SUSI SAY TALL CLIBAN JOIN GROP KO ARILY AND Pass

CUBAN APPARENTLY

TRIS UN

AMERICAN CURRENCY TC

CAME OUT OF AZCUE OF FICE INTO PATIO. DESCRIBED AS TALL, SOLIDLY

BUILT MULATTO, CURLY HAIR, & STRIPED TIE, ABOUT

NAN AFTER 18 SEP.

57 YEARS OLD. SUBJ N.
i@. SUBJ OVERHEARD FOLLOWING CONVERSATION SETWEEN NEGRO AND

OSYALD: NEGRO: CIN ENGLISH) I WANT TO KILL THE MAN.

OSYALD: YOU'RE NOT MAN ENOUGH. I CAN DO It.

NEGRO: CIN SPANISH) I CAN'T GO WITH YOU. I HAVE A LOT Ta DO.

OSWALD: THE PEOPLE ARE WAITING FOR ME BACK TH

.

il. NEGRO GAVE OSWALD SIX THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED DOLLAR

IN LARGE DENOMINATION US BILLS SAYIN HIS ISN'T MUCH." OF SUM,

ALSO GAVE HIN

FOR EXTRA EX

ONE THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED WAS
ABOUT 203 MEXICAN PESOS.

VED CUBAN EMPLOYEE OF
E AND TELL HIM SHE LIVING AT CALLE

HER, GIRL APPEARED

NDED SUBJ OF PROSTITUTE. OSWALD,

ABOUT 20 YEARS OLD, MANNER

NEGRO, AND CANADIAN Th WENT UPSTAIRS.

13. SUBJ LEFT BUILDING MOMENTARILY TO BUT POPSICLE AT CORNER,

SAW THREE PERSONS OF PARAGRAPH 7 LEAVE BY EMBASSY GATE NEAR

E THEY

‘

CHEVROLET. SUBJECT RE*ENTERED CONSULATE WAITI

CORNER OF TACUBAYA. ¥ ED PARKED BLACK CAR, POSSIBLY

@ ROOM. AND LATER

WAS APPROACHED BY TALL CUBAN OF PARAGRAPH 9 WHO CAME OUT OF

GP= SECRET

3602

HW 50955 Docld:32282859 Page 4


E AZ

8

sFioie Cy GA Ye S S aie

rer''oo ESF

DE 85199 27/G147Z NOV

0 2761392 ZYH

FM CIA i ne

TO FBI
WHITE HOUSE ATTN: MCGEORGE

NDY ce
C2LVOO
DEPARTMENT OF STATE ATIN: U,ALEXIS JOHNSON

~C R ET FINAL SECTION OF TWO SECRET

CUE OFFICE AND TOLD SUSU COME BACK NEXT DAY WHEN FINGERPRINTS
WOULD BE TAKEN AND SUBJECT WOULD FILL OUT FORM FOR TRAVEL Boc-
UMENTS «

14. SUBJECT RETURNED CONSULATE NEAT DAY 19 SEPT ABOUT #345
AND FILLED OUT FORN. WAS TOLD WOULD BE HELPED SY EKBASSY OFFICER

TO MAKE UP FALSE MEXICAN PAPERS. MANY PEOPLE IN WAITING ROOM,

VERY BUSY, DOOR FINALLY CLOSED TC KEEP OTHERS FROWN }

ING.

SUBJECT WAS TOLD TO CONTACT PROF ECELBERTO TORRES WENT TO TORKES

HOWE BUT TORRES GUATEMALAN WIFE SAID TORRES AT SOVIET EMBASSY.
WENT TO SOV ENB ABOUT 1159 BUT WAS NOT ALLOWED ENTER ALTHOUGH Had

BEEN THERE EARLIER OCCASI WITH TORR

DOCTOR NOEL JARQUIN

TOLEDO, NICARAGUAN CON WHO HAD BEEN IN MOSCOW, APPROACHED

AND SAW SUBJECT AT GATE, ASKED WHY HE WAS THERE. SUBJECT

SAID WAS LOOKING FOR TORRES. JARQUIN INFORMED H1
WAS INSIDE. TORRES CAME OUT AND WENT WITH SUBJECT TO CUBAN

CONSULATE, TORRES ENTERED CONSULATE OFFICE, LATER EMERGED TELLING

SUBJ "YOU HAVE NOTHING FURTHER TO DO HERE UNTIL 1 CONTACT YOU".

HW 50955 DocId:32282859 Page 5


AT THE END OF

SEVERAL TIMES TO REPORT HIS BELIEF SOMEONE IMPORTANT IN U.S.

TO BE KILLED, USED NANE JORGE KYNAUT CPHONETIC) TO PROTECT IDEN-

TITY. WAS ASKED IF CALL RELATED VISA MAT SPLIED NO, POL~

ITICAL MATTER, W D SPEAK TO PERSON OF GONFICENCE. FIRST TIME WAS

SCREENED BY TWO FEMALE ) HE WOULD

» FINALLY SPOKE TO MAN WHO SA

CALL BACK. SUBJECT LEFT PHONE Nui 52+19-52 (SINCE CHANGED).

MAN NEVER CALLED. SUBJECT TRIED REPEATEDLY CONTACT EMBASSY BY

PHONE WAS FINALLY TOLD “QUIT WASTING OUR TIME, WE ARE WORKING
HERE, NOT PLAYING.”

19. WHEN SUBJECT SAW OSWALD PHOTG IN NEWSPAPER HE AGAIN CON-
TACTED EMBASSY, 25 NOVEMBER.

2G. SUBJ HAD TANK MAINTENANCE TRAINING IN CANAL ZONE WHEN
WITH RICARAGUAN ARMY, SAYS IS STILL NICARAGUAN COMMUNIST PARTY
MEMBER, WAS ORIGINALLY CONVINCED MARXIST, LATER BECAME DISILL~
USIONED, HAS BEEN PENETRATION AGENT FOR NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT FOR PAST

FOUR YEARS. SCHEDULED ENTER CUBA WITHIN THO MONTHS.

21. SUBJECT EXPLAINED HE OUTRAGED BY KEN

WHICH HE 8@ PERCENT SURE COMMUNIST PLOT". BOZS NOT WISH BECOME

SECRET, BUY WILLING DO WHATEVER NECESSARY.

22. FIELD co

Nfs SUBJECT IS YOUNG, QUIET, VERY

SON, WHO SPEAKS WITH CONVICTION, KNOWS ENOUGH ENGLISH TO URDER

STAND CONVERSATION,

GP-1

4395

HW 50955 DocId:32282859 Page 6


15. UNIDENTIFIED GIRL ENTERED CO

THIS POINT,
GREETED TORRES. TORRES REPLIED “NOT HOW, COME BACK TOMORROW" 6

16, ON MIGHT 19 SEP TORRES HAD MEETING OF ABOUT EIGHTEEN

NICARAGUAN COMMUNISTS AT HIS HOME To DIScU QUERRILLA

ATTACK I8

OVIA REGION OF NIC AGUA. TORRES ANNOUNCED 6

GUERRILLAS KILLED, SAID NEXT YEAR WOULD BE TOUGH ONE BECAUSE us

POLICY MIGHT CHAN

COMMIES MIGHT
SUBJECT IF HE KNEW LAGUNA DE LAS

ys TRAINING CUBANS, CALLED IT ZONA 6

NOT KNOW AREA»

i7. ON 26 SEP TORR

Be

QUE CUADRA CGLI

S

OF CARTON ERVASES DE MEXICO, LAGG DE CHAPALA

HE SHOULD GO CUBAN CONSULATE. SU JECT WENT, #

CONSUL VERY BUSY« SAW CANADIAN AGAIN. CANADIAN WAS SKOKTNG

CIGARETTE, WEARING ROLEX WATCH W

E WAS TRYING

BUY FOR THOUSAND P: PES¢S. CANADIAN REFUSED SELL, HAD BOUGHT WATCH

| MEXICO AND TAKING HOME AS SOUVENIR. CANADIAN HAD BATC

| PHOTOS WHICH SHOWING TO CONSULATE EMPLOYEES. CARRIED C

1 STRAPPED ACROSS CHEST « RED HALRED NEGRO (NOT ANTONIO GARCIA

WHOM SUBJECT KNOWS BY SIGHT) CAME IN AND TOOK CANADIAN UPSTAIRS»

CANADIAN HAD FLASHED LARGE WAD OF | DOLLARS. CANADIAN SAID
“y'm GOING, THE SK (JES ARE CLOUDING UP AND THEY'RE WAITING FOR HE
! AT HONE".
NW 50955

Doclda:32282859 Page 7
