# 177-10002-10101

## Page 1

117-10002-10101]

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/6/2018

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

LBJ

177-10002-10101

RECORD SERIES:

NSF, INTELLIGENCE BRIEFINGS, 11/23/63-12/5/63, BOX 1

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

CIA

TITLE: THE PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

DATE: 11/28/1963

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS:

INTELLIGENCE REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; Mandatory Review Material

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/12/1997

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: DOC. #6

v9.1

---

## Page 2

TO:

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

Darmes Mathis, Spec. Accest, NARA 1/14/15

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

4

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURFENCE

REMARKS

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FLE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. [SC-NLJ-088/93 B]

COPY O

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO.

Jennifer Cuddehack, LBJ Literang

DATE

V14115

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

---

## Page 3

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

President.

Read

by me love

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

28 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 4

68

CARACAS

COLOM BLA

VENEZUELA

* + Selected railroad

50

34168 10-83

100

100

200 Kilometers

200 Miles

BRAZI

68

SO YUK

Carpanod?

COMene

Grander

Maturon

Clud at Balva!

BRITISI

GUIANA

BRAZIL

---

## Page 5

1.

Venezuela

The country's six presiden-

tial

candidates have swung into the

home stretch of their campaigns.

So have the terrorists, who are still

trying hard to sabotage next Sunday's

vote.

b. There is little doubt that

the terrorist effort has all-out

Cuban support.. Castro looks on

Venezuela as his prime target in

Latin America and would do everything

in his power to prevent president

Betancourt from finishing his term.

C .

So far, the terrorists have

tried

to intimidate the candidates

by harassing political rallies, bomb-

ing their party headquarters in

various cities, and threatening them

with assassination.

They have tried

to scare voters from the polls by

creating a general atmosphere of Law

Lessness. Kidnappings, like the one

yesterday morning of Colonel Chenault,

are part of the pattern.

The government counterattack

Is under the personal direction of

Betancourt, who is as determined to

finish out

his term and turn over

power to a freely-elected successor

as castro is to prevent this.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 6

2.

South Vietnam

e.

Yesterday it was announced

that the carrying of firearms by

anyone outside the security forces

was forbidden until the elections

are over.

. Some 3,000 reservists have

been called up to protect the polls.

Leaves are being cancelled and all

security forces are maintaining a

high state of alert.

We now have a fuller ac

count

the Viet Cong attack on two mountain

villages

This account makes it clear

that the earlier press versions,

•which spoke of 1,000 missing vil-

lagers, were highly colored.

c. Our present information

is that the attack, in company

strength, was successfully repulsed.

The Viet

Cong suffered some 30 cas

ualties; government losses were six

killed,

three wounded and 39 missing.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 7

d. As is usual in these cases,

the villagers began to trickle back

once the Viet Cong left.

This episode aside,

WE SEe

• a number of indications that the

Communists will try to sustain the

higher level of military activity

they have kept up since the coup.

f.

The Communist radio has

called for more attacks in an effort

to destroy strategic hamlets and

"develop" Viet Cong forces.

3.

Israel

(Cont 'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 8

4.

USSR-India

there are

some Indians who have

doubts about the Soviet willingness

to live up to the letter of their

military ald agreements with New

Delhi.

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 9

5.

Burma

-

a. Ne Win has followed up his

action in breaking off talks with

the Burmese Communists by arresting

over 700 of their number.

Ne Win had been trying to

lure the faction-ridden Communists

into a "national front." However,

he found the demands of the Commu-

nist negotiators, some of whom had

only just returned from long exile

in Peiping, to be impossible.

c. This will probably lead to

renewed fighting between the army

and Communist guerrillas in the hills.

d. More trouble can also be

expected from the rebellious ethnic

minorities like the Karens and the

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 10

CHINA

THATLAND

Phu Qu Rach Gi

GULF OF

SIAM

•Quay Long

(Ca Mau)

L...

South Vietnam

• Quang Tri

Hue

ZĐe Nang

Quang Nam

•Quang Ngai

" Kontum

Pleiku •

An Khe*

Cheo Reo

CIDASA

Qui Nhon

•Song: Cau

Tuy Hoa

Ban Me Thuot

Da Lat

Kha Trạng

u Phu

* Loc Ninh

" aunt Vie

OSAIGON

cha kon

My Tho

• Vung Tau:

/ Phan Thiét

Phan Rang

SOUTH

CHINA:

" SEA

Bạc Lieu

STATUTE MILES

34235

---

## Page 11

6.

Cambodia

Kachins, whose demands for greater

autonomy have been rejected in Ran-

goon.

Us officials on the spot

doubt that the army, hobbled by poor

leadership and its many political

responsibilities, will be any more

effective in dealing with the prob-

lem this time than in past anti-

insurgency campaigns.

a. Sihanouk has signed an ac-

cord setting up regular air service

between Cambodia and Communist China®

A similar agreement with Hanoi is

in the works.

b. These lines are significant

largely as gestures by Peiping and

Hanoi to bolster Sihanouk's

of importance:

Neither would be a

paying proposition commercially and

both could flounder before the first

paying passenger enplanes unless

richts to overfly laos can be obtained.

7.

Greece

a. It looks more and more as

if Papandreou, who squeaked through

to a narrow upset victory over ex-

premier Karamanlis in the 3 November

elections, will not be able to form

a government.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 12

8.

His party does not have a

parliamentary majority,

so he needs

support from either Karamanlis

party on the right or from the Com-

munists.

Brazil

c. The military has

let

it be known that it would consider

Papandreou's acceptance of Communist

support as sufficient reason for a

coup d'etat.

d.

Should Papandreou fail to

torm a government, the palace intends

to pass the mandate to Karamanlis

believing that he too would fail.

e. This would then onen the

way

for a

compromise premier more amenable to

palace influence.

a. President Goulart and his

opponents are keeping political ten-

sions in Brazil high.

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 13

b. Comments by Goulart, thai

"social disaster" is sure if his

program is not passed soon, have drawn

sharp rejoinders from moderate ano

conservative figures and have fed

rightist coup plotting.

C .

Strains are also growing in

the military following the arrest

of a young officer who refused last

month to execute an order to arrest

Governor Lacerda, a leading conserva-

tive spokesman

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 14

NOTES

A.

USSR

B.

Rumania-US

Rumanian officials are about to award

a US 11rm,

Ferguson and Company of Cleveland, Ohio,

a $32 million contract to help build the huge Galati

steel plant. The Rumanians are pressing ahead with

this project in the face of Soviet efforts to dis-

courage it in various ways, most importantly by re-

fusing to underwrite the scheme to any substantial

degree.

C.

Turkey The New Turkey Party has followed the

Peasant Party in withdrawing from the present three-

party coalition government.

This means that the

coalition has to all intents and purposes collapsed,

even though no formal action will be taken until

Prime Minister Inonu returns from Washington this

D. Thailand

SaritI

is in

critical condition. I

_the

most likely successor would be Thanom Kittikachorn,

now deputy prime minister and minister of defense.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 15

GAMBIA

ALGERIA

LiBYA®

SUDAN

N.SOMAILI

SIERE

-BONE

NIGERIA

ETHIOPIA

OMALI

REPUBLIC

REPÚBLIC

OF THE CON

RWANDA BURUNDI

@ZANZIBAR

CABINDA

ZAMBIQUE

SOUTH WEST 2E/2

S BECHUANALAN

AFRICA'

REPUBLIC

SOUTH AFRIC

ASWAZILAND

SUTOLAND:

---

## Page 16

E.

Indonesia-Philippines

F. Indonesia

Djakarta is giving every indication that

It will hold up final action on the long-pending oil

contracts with US companies in an attempt to smoke

us out on the question of US aid policy toward Indo-

nesia.

G. Rwanda-Burundi

Tribal refugees from Rwanda, now in

Burundi,

seem bent on making trouble between the two

countries.

Some 3,000 of their number were reported

yesterday

to be moving toward the frontier. They

have little military capability, but blood could

flow and require UN intervention.

H.

USSR-Congo

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

