# 177-10002-10096

## Page 1

177-10002-10096

i .

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/6/2018

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

LBJ

177-10002-10096

RECORD SERIES:

NSF, INTELLIGENCE BRIEFINGS, 11/23/63-12/5/63, BOX 1

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

• TO :

CIA

TITLE: THE PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

DATE: 11/25/1963

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS:

INTELLIGENCE REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; Mandatory Review Material

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/12/1997

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

DOC. #3

v9.1

---

## Page 2

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE INITIALS

ames Mathis, Sper. Accesse, NARA- YMM/5

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

OUNOURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FIE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

PECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. [SCMJ-083/93 B]

copy 2

OF

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO

Jennifer Crodebals, LB55 Librang V14/15

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

---

## Page 3

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

25 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 4

1. South Vietnam

a.

Vietnamese Communist forces

kept up their high post-coup level

of activity over the weekend.

b. The most significant action

was an attack early yesterday morn-

ing against a US special forces train-

ing camp some 30 miles from Saigon.

C. When the smoke cleared after

a sharp fight, four US soldiers were

missing and at least 35 South Vietnamese

were dead.

d. Late yesterday morning, the

Viet Cong shot down two aircraft sup-

porting a government operation in

the extreme south, and damaged twelve

more.

Two more Americans are missing

in this action.

e. Back in Saigon, the new re

gime's troubles with the ambitious

General Ton That Dinh continue.

He is still angling to get

control of the important strategic

hamlet program and has yet to give

up command of the Third Corps, which

the generals assigned to another of

their number earlier in the month.

This corps is of particular signifi

cance in that it surrounds Saigon.

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 5

1..

BUR

Manie digo

South

étnam

HAILAND

MALAYSIA

•SINGAPORE

RI AU

ISLANDS O

N

D

Djakarta

South

' :

China.

Sea •

BRUNEL

Sarawak p

MA

BORNEO

N

ESTI

Java

Sea

PINES

'Sabah

Celebes Sea

CELEBE

Banda

Sea

631124

INDIAN

OCEAN

MALAYSIA

MILES

34176

jare

TIMOR

i...

---

## Page 6

2. Indonesia-

Malaysia

a. Sukarno is beefing up the

subversive aspects of his confronta-

tion campaign against Malaysia.

3.

Venezuela

a .

The weekend was marred only

by sporadic and minor acts of ter-

rorism in several cities.

Govern-

ment security forces have the situa

tion generally under control.

b.

The Venezuelan Air Force

is stepping up its efforts to track

down and destroy intruder aircraft.

The Venezuelans are convinced that

planes have been ferrying supplies

to pro-Castro guerrillas in the

mountains of the northwest.

For The President Only - Top Secret

(Cont'd)

---

## Page 7

66

64

HABRAN DEA

62

TOBAGO

act 8 La Asunción

• Cardpano...

TRINIDAD

Barcelona o Puerto Laf

10

VENEZUELA

6309195

100

200 Mlles

206 Kllometers

I..

L

---

## Page 8

4.

Irag

5.

Syria

a.

The air of tension in Bagh-

dad dissipated somewhat after the

government lifted the curfew and once

again permitted private vehicles on

the streets.

b. Neither the city nor its

new rulers are, however, at ease.

Troops are still very much in evi-

dence.

C. The new regime apparently

is not convinced that the hard core

of the Baath Party and its paramili-

tary supporters have been put down

for good.

We have information that a

showdown between the moderate and

extremist factions of the ruling

Baath

Party in Syria

is fast approach-

ing•

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 9

6.

Prime Minister Hafiz as the

leading figure on the side of modera-

tion.

General Umran heads the doc-

trinaire extremists.

It was a split along the

same lines that brought about the

Baath Party's fall from power in

Iraq.

Italy

Premier-designate Moro ex-

pects that the program for a "center-

left" coalition government will be

approved today by the four parties

involved.

approved,

After the program has. been

approved, the final selection of a

cabinet can be undertaken.

This

could take the rest of the week.

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 10

sir.

L CAIRO

JORDAN

JAR

(EGYPT)

Aswan,

à: Ras

Banas

venbo®

SAUDI ARABIA

Zahran.

Nojran

Sadah

Harad

• Major road

Other, road or track

STATUTE MILES

100

Moydix

Wadi

e'-Jon,

Hajjah

KAMARAN .

fo.k.).

Umran

Raudha

SANA

y Marib

Sirwah

Jihannah

Harib

X.s

Al Hudaydah

Ibb.

Qatabah

Al Bayda

TAIZZ

Ad Dali

Mocho

FORATE

ETHIOPIAI

HOẾT

FRENCH°

SOMALILAND

i #ADEN

KaTT

40Y

IRAQ

KUWAIT

"KUWAIT.

NEUTRAL

ZONE

*RIYADH

Medina,

SAUDI

ARABIA

Jiddal

"eceon

Khamis Mushait

wa, Mgiren ,

l Oizan

SANA

Al Hudaydah'"

ITAIZZE

ETHIOPIA

STATUTE MILES

Al Bayds.

ADEN PROTECTORATE

-*ADEN

CUCROENDE

6308013

YEMEN

---

## Page 11

7.

UAR-Yemen-

Egypt

The Saudis told our embassy

in Jidda yesterday that a Saudi vil-

lage near the Yemeni border was

tacked Thursday by Egyptian aircraft.

b: It was the second time this

onth that Yemeni-based Egyptian a1r-

raft have struck across the borde

into Saudi Arabia.

C. As in the previous cases,

the Saudis have lodged a formal com

plaint with the UN Observation Wis

sion.

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 12

A.

B.

NOTES

Oswald Press stories to the effect that Lee Harvey

Oswald

recently visited Mexico City are true, accord-

ing to our information.

Oswald visited both the

Cuban and the Soviet embassies on 28 September. He

was trying, we are told, to arrange for visas so

that he could travel to

the USSR via Havana.

He

returned to the US on 3 October.

Brazil A new round of military promotions and re-

assignments will be made public today. The present

instability of the Brazilian political scene is re-

C.

D.

Algeria

a group of army officers is plotting

with Defense Minister Boumedienne to overthrow Ben

Bella. A growing estrangement between the two has

been apparent for some time

Boumedienne is making common

cause with those who wish to turn Ben Bella out of

office.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 13

E.

F.

Go

Australia - Communist China

Peiping has signed con-

tracts for just over one million tons of Australian

grain to be delivered early next year.

expecting the Chinese Communists to enter the market,

since they had another mediocre grain crop this year.

Peiping has been buying close to five million tons

of grain for the past several years.

Con go

the Soviet Embassy in Leopold-

ville had booked 75 places on a flight to Brussels

no information on

whether any Soviet Embassy officials have actually

departed, however.

There was no new harassment of Allied ac

cess routes to Berlin over the weekend. A total of

16 flares were fired last evening near Tempelhof

Airfield, but we connect these with Communist ef-

prevent escapes from East Berlin.

East

German police were observed stringing barbed wire

in the same area a short time later.

H. Laos

The neutralists claim to have made significant

gains in their limited offensive in the Vang Vieng

area.

They have not, however, been able to dislodge

the Pathet Lao from positions within artillery range

of the town's airport.

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

