4178-40003-101271

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

JFK Assassination System Date: 8/27/20!

Identification Form

Ageney Information

KISS/SCOW
178-10003-10127

CHURCH COM.

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 7602957 (2)
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: COOPER, CHESTER L.
TO: DCI
TITLE: CONSIDERATIONS FOR US POLICY TOWARD CUBA AND LATIN AMERICA
DATE: = 12/01/1963
PAGES: 6
. SUBJECTS :
JOHNSON, LYNDON B.
CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS
CIA
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
DOCUMENT TYPE: = MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS; — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/01/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS *

vod

Attached to 1781000310109. Bad copy. Unmarked but contains classified information.

R

HW 50955 Docld:322044868 Page 1


oe 178-10003-10127

TRANSMITTAL SLIP 3" pee umber 63

TO:

° Mr, Gordon Chase i

ROO! NO. BUILOING. :
White House Sitroom :

REMARKS:

Dear Gordon:

Here is a copy of a paper :
‘prepared for the Director. I { ~~
am sending it to you on the H Fs
condition that you regard it 3
. as a "privileged document'’ at 8
.this time. . rg
K
ty
. pg
. ae}
=
a ae
? b 2
Ao eo
. FROMestdeL. Cooper, O/DDI :
Y ROOM NO. BULLOING TENGEN .
res | HOS "E848
ee W244 . ee CUSED. Ft POL MSI Od 3944 5 uy ”
. Loe 3
: I
a
" :
, me

A
- UNMARKED _
NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

HW 50955 DocId:32204488 Paye 2


i Oecenber LOo2

+

ixvector of Centoat Tazelllgence

OHS, NO Pa; &

BULESES? . 3 Copeiderstienus for 1 Follies Toward
. Seba fun] Latina Anorica .

POLICY QUSBCTIVES

: polisy toward lL iatia 3 haere iz ts incwuniae the
srabpili ay one "the By darmarrs $ic

End £2 pryyent ie See ioseaat af Casiroite

sms, The wlidanie ue Sjnctive 3a. Cuba hes
anist resize

Rapes. Carpens

” Bove rinents
ead RHTLAOS z
bown the rogliasemcnt of the present ¢
by one oss rie eith ihe grain a:

STIR of this Ohjsciive im to sgolete © Cu

XS oo)
‘fren the Feet. SPR Eamigpiese and tie ress of
oi to cuert GESREMTOR, AW ¥

YO preven sh
yoAsz
nek ang, avert netien progran 4s ¢

ie aud inteasatiy tse ereesmisod oa

FNspsey La to anoxsrege < i
iA tha midltary, to ©:
the Eoyiet pores:

maats bawea sate

Se OPTRCTIVES

Ii, PSOsPECTS yor Aca ‘
2, The natea tion im cuba ig characterized hy ecoxnente-

te cua ef rovoltie
tichary impeins 5 and the a wt aa Agureamiggiy
lsswe majotity of thw povistisa. Yo mace exteui thig im a
weault oY inaate ecoumglc ceficteasian in Quns, bur te sexe
extent cuhats problems have boon raznifiedt be YS poliey
(cuneciaily the vi LaDy a? ue rlenne Flori,
mad, to a lesrar «J 3 preemie Castrala
Jouition o Lily; poveatiy ce been
ferced co ares to paiatein din
control, H moviag im the right

Biaguatioa, ¢

ws

- se
UNMARKED
~ NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

es ar eepreermsmrenespenmrnaetron

HW 50955 Docld:32204488 Page 3

AMWAGIT CHOI *'Y Givugzo gH, woud RAQDOLONA



her BASS,
rare SE

US point of view,

mak yet od eres
mon only vistaerin

safehod 22

3 inieretita, Saat
higaly frayile is ae Ss trhewg, oo
geal cual rismersccortisaate ta iu om
tye

Gsase off lis recent caution: ihe Culham pate caeae disvoversd

in Vonexuela ig the flret Amewn to us wince 150%, Eo bas
galled Jor visient revelatisuary sotion to take place
Peru, Prasdi sot sier am has thiaatvenad
orf Dis gargare firma Big yollowera in oft Porat

fo out

they inifiate no we ok hah these no sions i
evidence Wf come dewneratgion ord that siy yea back I

fa

maeaaimn iy Castro? gasitiad
any pellay of aubperaicn
+ thrangacut Latia Roe,

Bey taeiy ee
w njliémry tazeover Jn seversa? vies begtusy silitary
vaginas will 2a Lae od Ps

MAMORke Date anaceyiiple ta tbe growth
ef poeyoluticnaary moverenti.

Size, Liey Uovertieiass uo
Ceigrsisntien to persed 2

& Is ther

legtion, af

Od “UY QTWUGD AHL WOME AaCDOLOHa

far n 6 more,
sere -eviseatc, Peis, toe

; paliey with respect
SMoasabile the terveding tani vould caen
to te £9 gomrestrate usoa other Latin Amerieosa ooelisical
Rear ani goyerdoaats, : a

yigoroe x
Ya Goyeresent

5, The vlivwination of Ceetre wrald not in Liweli nolve
Our larger probles 2a Latin smeric medge dl witesd
pon lia cadkeetible sit te to deprive local

EES CCC3 EET

reyvolationrfiga af tnevi Blige A aoe
Uyiay qnunws of ingtavil of diruisents
to roseve thes, weiid + Shase Been gts

wowld, for a Tom: th y chang
han orecryeta, por we “hud hawe to camait ourselves te vary

ESsgive uoononia aad oiler assistance,

coey

a a

HW 50955 DocId:32204488 Page 4


fare, to ¢

intensiyisats

-in operstion und
sosirya tian oa
ui ma foeiiapd lity and :

sabsiage actions unlo
rytaliatoery measures far

yorsioa sommiliad by the Custoe regime,

end guposurs of tho Saban ares cache
caatre interventies in the
wag “ossautries maw
nino make tolerble |
igtensiz x32 overt aad

B, Fae. diseovery
in Veweguela ana other evidaace of
Antervad aftnirs 2
provide us wiih thin Y
a higher “peige level" regeault
earvert oS gporsnred setions, .
following earrece of sties ia

bad craton pro:

2,
ogricn pe part ee the Rraadver Us
2 free Comegniss aad ca

Uetia
to senater he
fngarresti ouarses:

Ae Eeyetiate bi-lateral asrew

Asyrican Corernneaia foe tat mene
to preyeat arsna oF silag hy andi, samy ar 2
Latin suaaned es AUSo ot 239 jeeenee oi é

AUVdGIT GHOI WY GTWaAD AHL HOUT RdOD0LOHd

tase pss ite progscams to lnenease the ante,
Aitsex ia the Latina Amiriesen sowstries,
Bae Do seats Bong Caseroiie sroune in mos
2 eouatzios bane pat 3a SEBO e aad for the .
erLy wouipssd
averimeanta of the “ara
FLEE Datla, subveraioa

2
as

Howevexy, the
for dvtesating 5
ant sem ugrising ase “yory iow,

HW 50955 DocId:32204488 Page 5-


<, Cantiaus to gneouraye ciforts by Latia Ae
Coyerssents to cevywlse aad in iapemeye act MANE GARIARE
for ihe kontrol of the move

PEORONE Laspseted of cubeersion,
soyermral totic tet Latin ¢
ttanews SATtictpat ian

a. To reduce Csstre’s chances of suscesa in

exporting biy tewyolutina, develop, with Latin Amertoon
eougisios a pina for toe radtiae of % Avis
ghinmest: F Qiks bof. joerica,
For maxi eRpaid be divewa as ciose
to Cuban shorva as teaties! fsaslble,

@, Attract werld attention to Venezuelan efforts
to expose the Ongira vegise for plots mad sygreasion

3 Ey

ah

da proviting the Jagan soverns -
Aad thers is close iceatity of view botwomucthe ty,

1D, With rogerk to cuba, it is ured thet, atas
Ayores 4t@ @sriy ocensioa, the Presiseank ext Bh gublic £4:
Reng 22 poricy, Ia thia conmection, 16 tn of particule

Glimaiate anbi-Custre and anti:Camenuisi Giesic
tUvbanm arved forvea to Lake eggion a2guin:
(Sem suigentions invalviag the use of Progidential
abiective are contained in Tad 4

spostanee £2
elo mai
 castre & .
Binkesents to
“attached, }

Rt, In
te POR se

a te au carly polisy slatesent on Cuba,

lowing seniors: . : 7

&, She President aad hie representativespyt the
Eoviets an notiow via diplomatic chanazela sad in private
conticentiak diseussioy &. Z Remengt with
Castro is excluded from congiueration, amd thar tis
etinteses of the Castra regine im & serious ispedinest

te detente with the

b, Covert enerpitens cewld be cenducted by CEA to
excorbroe> exiating toasieas between Unetre s
Saviets tr causing Cusioe to believe thar
&ro orgaged ja ecerel wemotiniLons with the

States to elinkaaie bin,

S
sewigsed ta ¢

{ripen en eyceeareremmcr era nas rasan m mires Ha

HW 50955 DocId:32204488 Page 6

AUWdaLT Guod *Y atwayo gHL Nowa KaoDOLOHa



An

3a!

ed
Se

suds postive

ah weekd oo

eA tera pie
RBUSNG Loam

XaVddIT Gdosd *y aiwaxD ZHL Woda AdODOLOHG

HW 50955 Docld:32204488 Page 7

