4178-40003~10387;

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

CARVHARDY
178- 10003-10387

SUBJECT FILE

BELIN ASSASSINATION DRAFTS

Date:

8/27/201

Document Information

ROCK
GRAY, MARVIN

FE. THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

05/22/1975
20

ASSASSINATIONS, FOREIGN LEADERS
CIA

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

GRAY, MARVIN

ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
TRUJILLO, RAFAEL

REPORT
Top Secret
Consulted
Withhoid
07/29/1993

Part IL of 2-part draft--Dominical Republic only.

v1

HH 50955 DocTd:32112922 Page 1


fo mo +. TOP SECRET~ au toreaye

-70-

“DRAET :
GRAY/siln 178-10003-10387

5/22/75

N
E. The Dominican Republic

1. Summary and Conclusion

: In late 1960 ana 1961, the United States, having
abandoned its policy of nonintervention in the Dominican
Republic, sought to bring about the overthrow of the regime
of Generalissimo Rafael Trujillo and the establishment of

a moderate successor government. To accomplish this result

several measures were undertaken on the diplomatic level

“and the Special Group (predecessor of the

At their

approved a program of covert action as well.

direction the CIA. encouraged a group of internal dissidents
On May 30, 1961,

AYVdaIT ayog

along with several exile organizations.
“members of the internal group assassinated Trujillo.

_ There was no direct american participation in the
assassination. The idea originated with the Dominicans;

‘they acquired some of the weapons on their own; and they
They were never subject to

. did the detailed planning.

“taAmerican supervision or control, \

HW 50955 DocId:32112922 Page 2

MU GIVYID AHL HOUT AdODOLONG


-T1-

On the other hand, CIA- and State Department officers

in the Dominican Republic were in regular contact with the
plotters before the assassination, and they were well aware
of the group's lethal intentions. The CIA had told the group

of practical problems with several earlier assassination plans;
e of

it had offered to train a member of the group in the us

cxplosives to kill Trujillo.

“AS a ge

three carbines, along with limited supplies of ammunition,
were passed to the plotters about two months before the :

one of the carbines was reportediy left at

assassination.
‘ the scene of the crime. Four submachineguns were also sent.
- to the Dominican Republic by diplomatic pouch, They were with=

held from the plotters pecause of lastrminute State Department

objections.
, ; It appears that high-level State Department and:
White House officials first learned guns had been provided to
ssins some six weeks after the transfer, and

potential assa
about two and a half weeks prior to Trujillo's death. A state~

ment of policy was prepared and approved by the President,
bwe must not run risk of u.S. association with

»xeading
as a matter of general

political assassination, since U.S.

policy cannot condone assassination. This last principle is
. . .
The :

it in doubtful situations."

“overriding and must pre

preparation of this message, and the xequired coordination,

NW 50955 DocId:32112922 Page 3

sture of American support, three revolvers and

AWAIT GUOd 'a CIWYdO SHL-WOus-xdoD0LOHA


ea . ~72-

consumed about two weeks. There is no evidence of any

effort during this period to recover the weapons or other~ +,
. a,

wise interfere with the assassination plans. The policy

statement was cabled to the Dominican Republic on May 29,

the day before the successful assassination attempt. Both

the Consul General and the CIA Station Chief in’ Ciudad

Trujillo promptly protested this change in the policy which

they had followed in the belief it had been approved by

appropriate authority. Before these cables were received

.in Washington, Trujillo was dead,

RGVddIT qdor “ua aqiwaga gana WOUd: AdOOOLOHd

i
i

HW 50955 DocId:32112922 Page 4


roe . : -73-

General Conclusion and Recommendation

2. (Proposed)

he Comnission concurs in the position taken in the

policy statement. We have concluded that there was an

improper level of american involvement in the death of

Generalissimo Trujillo. That is so even though the assassins

ent weapons from

might have been able to procure equival

other sources. We also conclude that despite the apparent -

“A OWaaS “AHL WOWd AdOOCLOHa

_ good faith of the persons concerned,+there was inadequate
consideration of the risks o£ such involvement and inadequate

supervision and coordination of the operation. : a

We recommend that in the future, weapons should be
supplied to plotters of a coup ox revolution only in, the

rarest of circumstances, if at all. In passing on such

activities the approving authority should consider carefully

the potential damage to the foreign relations of the nation and

RaWddIT caos

the feelings of the american people if such activities become
tn our judgment: eventual disclosure is inevitable.

known.
edures of the CIA should be modified to re-
i

whe proc

gquixe the concurrence of the Department of State before weapons,

ammunition, explosives, and similar items are transmitted by :
of the U.S., including

“ @iplomatic pouch. The treaty obligations

jenna Convention on Diplomatic

“particularly those under the V

elation should be ‘observed and fulfilled in good faith

HW 50955 Docld:32112922 Page 5


wT 4-

3. The Chronology i
a. The Background
" Rafael Trujillo came to power in, the Dominican Re- !
public in 1930. By 1960 he was notorious because of the corrupt. anal.
regressive nature of his regime, because of his systematic
use of torture and- murder as tools of government, and because
of his intervention in the affairs of other nations. The
country was in considerable turmoil as the result of. several

attempts to overthrow the government, sponsored by other

Latin American countries,

. ; /
The policy of the United States at the beginning of

TRUE IHG NOUL- KASIOLOHA —

1960 was to refrain from actions which would hasten Trujillo's

. downfall but to identify, develop, and encourage a moderate
group which would take power in the event of Trujillo's death,
flight, or overthrow. This policy of non~intervention, although

clearly required by treaty, convinced many Latin Americans

AEVdGIT Gdod +4 -a

“that the United States supported and maintained the Trujillo
regime. Leaders such as President Betancourt of Venezuela,

whose support the United States badly-wanted in connection. with

operations against Castro, conditioned their support'on U.S.

assistance in toppling Trujillo. In April the President approved :

“contingency planning for a more active U.S, role in the event.”

the political situation in the Dominican Republic continued to... .._

deteriorate.

«
HW 50955 Docld:32112992 Page 6


-75-

!
b. The Rifles
“ss In May the American Ambassador to the Dominican Re-
public returned to Washington for consultations. Both State Départ~

. ment and CIA files indicate that he reported the dissidents

needed weapons, particularly a "small number of high-powered
rifles with telescopic lenses." The Ambassador has no present
_recollection of any such request. He is confident that he
made no serious effort to obtain them, ‘Nevertheless, the

request went forward. Near the end of June, according to

CIA files, the Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-
‘American Affairs approved the provision of "a small number
'

of sniper rifles or other devices for the removal of key

Trujillo people from the scene," and requested that they be

supplied at the earliest possible moment, Neither the CIA

-officer who obtained this approval nor the, Assistant Secretary,

now both retired, has any recollection of this meeting.

. KAWAGIT. CaO. .° UO TWO- dHE-HOUS-AGOSOLOHE—

HW 50955 DocId:32112922 Baye 7


-16-

cc, Explosives
On June 24, 1960, Trujillo sponsored an unsuccessful
attempt on the life of the President of Venezuela; as a-
result the United States and other OAS countries severed
diplomatic relations in August. Consular relations were
retained.
The Commission Staff interviewed the foreign ‘service
-officer who served as Deputy Chief of Mission before the
severance of relations, and as Consul General thereafter,
.It was his recollection that the dissidents. had no definite
- assassination plans in mid 1960, although they did speak of

that course as the only way out of the conditions under which ~

“M- GIVYAS FHL HOUd-AAOIOHOHE-

they lived. It was not until early 1961, as he recalls, that
the dissidents began formulating specific plans to KEL
“grujillo. The cables and memoranda of the period tend to

confirm this recollection.

AUWddI1.. 40g

Nevertheless, the CIA continued at intervals during

1960 to discuss with the dissidents means for the assassination

of Trujillo. A memorandum in October 1960 reflects that the \

Gissidents planned to kill Trujillo with a bomb, detonated from

a remote point, and then to take over the nation by means

, of an armed uprising, coordinated with other paramilitary

& action. A more detailed proposal. along similar lines appears

to have been provided by the dissidents in December.

HW 50955 Docld:32112922 Page 6



sJI-

On December 29, 1960, the Deputy Director for Plans

presented the Special Group with a program for covert action

r
to bring about Trujillo's overthrow. |

Two weeks later, the Department of State, on its ow

PHL WOU ..AdOdOLOHE-—-—-—-—

motion, obtained Special Group consent to have the internal
'

dissidents furnished “limited supplies of small arms and other

“HM aTwage.

equipment," meaning explosives, subject to the condition
. ee
* that these materials be provided to the dissidents at a point
-outsige the country itself. ‘The internal State Department

memorandum which led to this proposal stated there would be

_ KavaaIT auog:

no: thought of toppling the government by any such “minor
measure," but some sabotage potential would be placed in the
hands of the’ pro-U. Ss. opposition with a corresponding boost

to their morale and their opinion of the united States. The

station and the consulate were informed of the Special Group

action on January 19, 1961, the last day of the Eisenhower

President Kennedy was informed of the Special

Administration.

Group action not later than mid-February.

HW 50955 Doold:32112922 Paye $


“78+

The Commission finds no reason to believe that any

: member of the Special Group intended to authorize the furnish-

However, those CIA officials

ing of assassination weapons.
who had been involved in dealings with the dissidents very
likely believed that the Special Group had authorized support

‘of the planned assassination and armed uprising.

cod
Revolvers

puring the early months of 1961 the CIA Station

and the consular officials in kept in close touch

with the dissidents, and they were aware of their various schemes

W -CIVaIS AHL HOUI- AAVIOIONT

to assassinate Trujillo. Although these officials apparently

» took no active role in the development of plans, they did
on occasion discuss and criticize plans developed by the

dissidents. In mid-February, two members of the dissidents"

fe)
g
5
8
i
*

"Action Group", which was to carry out the actual assassination,
ame to the United States, They met with both CIA and State

Department officers. During these meetings they stated

repeatedly that the key to the success of the plot would be the

assassination of Trujillo, The evidence is insufficient to

permit a conclusion how far this knowledge went within the

State Department.

HW 50955 DocEd:32112922 Page 10


=79-

In March matters took an active turn, Ina cable
on March 4, a letter on March 16, and an airgram on March 22
the Consul General in ciudad Trujillo reported that plans
for frujillo's assassination.were coming to a head. He
requested additional authority to supply the pro-U.s.

‘dissidents with weapons.
Similar requests were made by the CIA Station

Three times headquarters responded

that it could not comply with these requests because the

-Chief of his headquarters.

xestrictions imposed by the Special Group precluded the

introduction of arms into the Dominican Republic by |

American

“ARWASLT “Y. GIWYID AHS HOUs -ATODO LONE ~~

HW 50955 Docld:32112922 Page 11°



=B0-

On the same day, Marcn 22, representatives of the
CIA met with the State Department officer who served as their
* with the Department's Bureau of Inter~

point of contac’

american Affairs @hree days later, OF March 25, the Deputy
Director for plans cabled the station setting forth United
States policy with respect to the pominican Republic and
stating that the revolvers and ammunition would be sent by

e near future.

diplomatic pouch in th
in either CIA or State Depart-

there is nothing

ment files to indicate whether the Department was consulted on thi
decision. The memories of the participants axe hazy on the ‘
ng that the CIA did discuss the

matter, but there are indicatio

introduction of handguns into the Dominican Republic, and
" petieved it obtained approval. The then Deputy pirectox for
Plans testified that as the territorial restriction on delivery
of weapons was initially imposed at the request of the
Department of State, he would have considered the State Depart-
then 's willingness to waive the restriction as adequate authority
and probably would not have returned to the Special Group for
formal approval. He observed that the members of the Group

sg might have peen advised informally.

ox their staff

HW 50955 DocEd:32112922 Page 12

AaW
daIt agoa “ua atwags aX, wou AdQD0LOHd-


|
i

\ —

The CIA files indicate that the revolvers were

passed to the dissidents, and the Department of State files in

dicate that one was passed by the Consul General and, the other ‘two

Neither the Consul General nor the former

"by Agency officers.
icular recollection of ‘the matter.

Chief of Station has any part.

RUWAGTT quod -y qIWHao_aHE-Neus--RaCDOLOHa

|
e.  Carbines .
“on March 26, the day after CIA decided to fur-
ish the revolvers, the station cabled that it had found three M-1

carbines in the consulate, left pehind by departing naval

gazines for the weapons and

On March 29 the

personnel. It requested mai

pass them to the dissidents,

* permission to
sponded that he was

Assistant Deputy Director for Plans re
headquarters was "inclined to
3 fs bad teeta ‘ s

‘be

and that

HW 50955 DocEd:32112922 Page 13


-82-

favor" passing the weapons and ammunition.
Another meeting was held with the Department of

State on March 31. The State Department memorandum makes no
mention of any discussion either of the furnishing of ammunition
er of authority to pass the weapons, but the Deputy Director

for Plans granted authority to pass the carbines the same

day. Both the State Department liaison officex, who prepared
the memorandum of the meeting, and the Consul General are clear
in their recollection that the State Department in Washington
‘did. not learn of the pass of the carbines until the Consul :
General was in Washington several weeks after ‘the pass took.
: place. Nothing in CfA files indicates that this decision was
coordinated in advance with the Department of State. It is
‘possible that the CIA understood its initial authorization
with respect to the handguns to extend to the carbines as well,
It is also possible that CIA decided the Special Group
restriction on importation of weapons did not apply, as ‘the

carbines were already inside the Dominican Republic. .

A reassuring reply from the Consul General was received two

HW 50955. DocId:32112922 Paye 14

~— -AYVEGTT duos" U- GIVAIO AND HORT AdODOLOnE


-83-

oo a

days later. |

Zt is clear that the coordination on the deci-

‘sion to provide the carbines was inadequate. It is impossible

- to determine from this evidence where the fault Lies.

f. submachine Guns

As early as March 20, the consulate and the sta-—

tion in

had been informed that the assassins in-

: tended to kill Trujillo when he visited his mistress*-substantially
the plan followed some two months later, Although tHe plan ,
originally called for Trujillo's dispatch inside his mistress’
xvesidence using silenced weapons, the group requested five

M-3 submachineguns and 1500 rounds of ammunition for self

defense in case the assassination plans went awry and there

was a firefight with Trujillo! s security forces. In its

March 25 cable, headquarters xeplied that it was prepared | to

yprovide these weapons when the dissidents develoved the

’ gapacity to receive them at sea or in a cache on the coast,

HW 50955 DocEd:32112922 Page 15

-AUWAAIT: Cuod -a-atwato7 aH KOeT “KaDoTOHa



=Bd-

but that for security reasons they could not be sent

by pouch,

— = 2
| The files show that there was no coordination

with the Department of State in Washington. Because of the

. Bay of Pigs landing on April 17, the station and the consulate
* were never given authority to supply the weapons to the
dissidents and they never did so.

On May 2, as the result of repeated entreaties
from the station and the consulate, the- Deputy Director for Plans
approved a cable for the DCI’s release, stating that as it
appeared the Action Group was prepared to act whether or not
the submachineguns were provided, the station was authorized
to pass them for the additional protection of the group.

Apparently someone decided this decision should not be made

without the consent of the Department of State, for on May 3

z

cores eAMVGAIT CYOd_.18..CTWERD.-BHE-HOWS- AGODOEONT™

a. .
HW 50955 DocId:32112922 Page 16


~85-

the Deputy Chief of the Western Hemisphere Division met with

Professor Adolph Berle, Chairman of the Interagency Task

Force on Latin America- According to Berle's memorandum of

the interview, confizmed by one of the

group wished, the arms in order to

witnesses, the initial

. presentation stated the

overthrow Trujillo. After some examination, Berle determined
that the real plan was to assassinate Trujillo, and that the
guns were wanted for that purpose. Berle responded that he
ja not care less for Trujillo, but that the United States

ything to do with any assassination

cou,

‘aia not wish to have an
plots anywhere, any time. The agency officer, who had been ,
in a supervisory position with respect to this effort for
. approxinately a year, told Berle he felt the same way.

Tt may be that the CIA tried to get Berle over~
ruled; on May 5 @ cable informed the station that a high-level
partment decision on the submachineguns was pending.

es what this cable might have

State De
Nothing in the files indicat
referred to. In any event on May 8 the station was informed
that the State Department had disapproved passage of the

submachineguns, and this ended the matter.

HW 50955 Doold:321129822 Page 17

oes wee KUVEGIT CHOd .B- OWASS- ANE HON LaOsOLOHAa


~86-

g. The Policy Statement
In mid-May, as a result of increasing indications

. . sos : . !
that events in the Dominican Republic were reaching a climax, i

the White House requested situation reports and contingency

plans. This exercise was overseen by a member of the National

Security Council Staff. A CIA briefing paper prepared for this

purpose stated that the three revolvers and the three carbines

had been passed to the dissidents for their use in personal
: defense Vattendant to their projected efforts to neutralize

Trujillo." The report implied that both the revolvers and
'

the ammunition had been in the consulate with the carbines,

: and therefore the limitations on the Special Group authorization

technically did not apply.
The CIA liaison officer at the State pepartment

called to his superiors" attention the fact that weapons had al~

_ready been passed, and apparently submitted a memorandum outlining
| ° a

the reasons why the United States should not be involved
in this activity. Among them were that the United States
Government should not lend itself to direct political

assassination, that the moral posture of the United States

Seould ALL afford further tarnishing in the eyes of the world,

that the united States would have encouraged the action,

HW 50955 Docld:32112922 Page 18

KdODO.LOHE

"a OWUIS TRL ROLE

. RVEEET nod


-87-

supplied the weapons, effected the delivery, and then turned
over only the final execution to (unskilled) local triggermen,

States could not afford a precedent which

ang that the United

might convince the world that our diplomatic pouches are

used to deliver assassination weapons.
On May 15 a joint CIA-State Department memorandum

was sent the President's National Security Adviser ‘informing him

group were well advanced in the

that the plans of the pro-U.S.

@irection of ousting Trujillo "py any means." This memorandum

aid not call attention to the fact that the United States had

supplied ‘weapons to the group.
In the midst of these discussions, the Consul

General, who had been in Washington for consultation, cabled on his
eturn to the Dominican Republic that the dissident, group

" planned to “execute action against Prujillo" that evening.
The Department replied that it would consider this timing

the juxaposition of the

a RUNGE EE Rod -U- OWT FHL ROT _—

particularly unfortunate in view of

Consul General's return from Washington to the Dominican

Republic and the inferences which might be drawn therefrom.

es was furnished to the NSC staffer.

This exchange of cabl
; The state of the covert action program in the

‘Dominican Republic was discussed in the Special Group on May 18,

ané again on May 25. @he Commission has not had access to

the minutes.

HW 50955 DocId:32112922 Page 19


-88~-

On May 24, the State pepartment liaison officer
provided the under Secretary with 4@ draft cable, stating that
the need to dissociate the United States from obvious inter-
vention, and even more so from political assassination,

the need to secure credit with the Dominican dissidents

overrode -
This draft was approved

and with Latin America generally.
at high levels in the CIA and the State Department, and was

sent to the White House for Presidential review. After some

redrafting in the White House, the final version in another
hand, stated "We must not run risk of U.S. association with ‘

political assassination, since U,S, as a matter of general

policy cannot condone assassination. This version*was

approved by the president in Paris and cabled to the Dominican
Republic. It arrived the day before Trujillo's death on May 30.
on June 1 the State Department instructed its.Consul General,

Jf he could do so “most inconspicuously", to destroy any

yecords concerning contacts with the plotters and any related

wmhatters.

HW 50955 Doold:32112822 Page 20

voce oe REWAGL TE. CUOd- $U-CTWEAS- AHI HOTA AAODOIONS


tion is not and shoul!

Fr. Conclusion
president Ford has firmly announced that assasSina~

ad never be a tool of Uni

The Commission joins in this statement. It is against the
constitutional and moral principles for which this xepublic
stands for there ‘to be any direct or indirect participation
of any agency of the United States Government in any plans

the assassination of any person in peacetime.

involving

HW 50955 Doold:32112922 Page 21

ted States policy.

“4 awano-dui-Ho :
* ua KACIOLOWE

AaWAGIT GOs
