# 178-10002-10469

## Page 1

178-10002-10469

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/27/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

ROCKCOM

178-10002-10469

RECORD SERIES: ASSASSINATION FILE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ASSASSINATION MATERIALS--MISC. ROCK/CIA (5)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

CIA

DCI

HARVEY, WILLIAM K.

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/10/1962

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CIA

CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

Consulted

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/01/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

re intelligence source

v9.1

NW 50955

DooId: 32204646 Page

1

90

---

## Page 2

178-10002-10469

indi list on

EGRET,

80162-1

10 July 1962

D-22

• MEMORANDUN FOR:

THROUGH:

SUBJECT:

Director of Central Intelligence

Deputy Director (Plans) el

Juana (Juanita) CASTRO Ruz

1.

ACTION: None.

This memorandum is for your informa-

tion.

2.

In connection with Task Force l efforts to split the

Cuban

leadership,

some

time ago we targeted Juana: Castro Ruz,

haltesister ofFidel. and Raul CastrowRuz.

A number of reports

have been received indicating that

Juana» Castro tRuz opposed.

the strong communist nature of the

Cuban regime and was

prepared,

at least to some extent, to cooperate with anti-

regime elements. In May 1962 we reestablished contact with and

and a long time personal

Iriend of Juana: Castro Ruz!

3.

On 11, June 1962, on our

instructions,

proceeded to Havana where

she maintained frequent contact

with Juana.Cas.tro.Ruz and

other

prominent Cuban leaders until

1 July 1952.

She discussed the

current regime quite frankly

with

Juana Castro Ruz and,

according to

obtained Juanars agreement

to provide intelligence on

the

Cuban political leadership

and

to work against

the Cuban

communist regime, short of

engaging in activity which might

result

in

direct personal harm tophenebrothers: Raul. and fidel.

According

to

Juana has agreed

to proceed

to

Mexico

the United States In

this connection and return to

Cuba after discussions with

"the Americans"

4. He are making the necessary arrangements with

to have Juana Castro Ruz proceed to Mexico

soon as possible in order that we may attempt. a direct re-

cruitment.

You will be kept advised of any future develop-

ments of

importance in this

case.

FORD

LIBRAR

WILLIAN K. HARVEY

C/TFW

FROM

THE GERALD R.

FORD

LIBPARY

SEORET

WH 50955 DocId:32204646 Page 2

---

