# 178-10004-10054

## Page 1

178-10004-10054

JFK Assassination jystem

Identification Furm

Agency Informal on

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY: ROCKCOM

RECORD NUMBER: 178-10004-10054

RECORD SERIES: • ASSASSINATION FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: MISC. ROCKEFELLER COM. AND CIA FILES (3)

Document Infomation

ORIGINATOR: PFIAB

FROM:

KIRKPATRICK, LYMAN

TO: RECORD

TITLE: MEETING OF THE DCI WITH PBLAB, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 28, 0930 A.M.

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/28/1962

10

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

PFIAB

MC CONE. JOHN

OPERATION MONGOOSE

CUBAN EXILES

MEMORANDUM

Top Secret

1B

Redact

09/09/2016

NH 52879

DocId: 32112782

Page 1

---

## Page 2

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 3

1204

1.

?.

5.

9.

1.0.

ries crain

COIFIDENTIAL

FINGIDENT'S FORGION INFELLIOSNCE ADVISORE BORKD

AGENDA FOR MERCINGS OR DECINGER 27 - 20, 1052.

9:00 - 0:30

9:30 - 10:00

20:00 - 12:15

12:15

1:00 - 2:30

2:90 - 3:30

3:30 - BH 0f

Day

1:30 p.1".

SUBTECT

The Cirman's Time

Review of Board's Draft Intera Report

the Prosident

Revier of Dract Report on Intelligerice

Connur 14?

Karidden liciating to

Arma Bulldog

(Rocoired from

on Deranbor 26, 1902)

Depart for lunch

(Guests of bi'.

longer)

- 9:

0f. M02 N9272 2L2uatf20

Mirector/intelligence,

CIA

Review of repore on Cuban uns

residence of tie. John NeGone

forthwect, D. C.)

9:00 - 9:30

2:30 - 1:00

Dinne

(3025

The Cinderan's Tine

Discusalon of Report on the Cuban 4993

Buildin with the foiloning koy Thieldi

Genes Communily Officiai3:

2. 9:30-10:30 Mo. john McCone

0. 10:50-11:00 Lit.

deneral M. Carter,

Deputy Director, CIA

c. 1:05-1250 dit.

General G. Flake,

Director, Mon

M:09125

d. 11: 30-12:00-12:

Cores rughes,

Deputy

Director,

Intelligence

12:36-130

Research, Department of Sta

e. 12:00-1:00 Vid. General Josepi Carrold,

Director, DIA

CONFIDENTINI

---

## Page 4

serenes

-? -

CONFIDENTIAL,

(coraler 26ch - Continues)

XENI

12.

•TIMS

109 - 21.

-3:453

2:20 - 3:30

13.

3:30 - BID

210.7222

When yo Parate ung

ratus of Unplemencation or Prior-Board

12022221225/230

Rashne Diccuocion of Acport do the Croan

ins Bulldug and Compicte Freparation oi

ileport to the frostion:.

CONFIDENTIAL,

---

## Page 5

..ina.

THE WHITE HOUSE

WASH NGTON

TOP SECH:

This tournal costels Afaration

IDSALIST,

CORONA

2XCART

NEMORANDUM TOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: Board Meeting of December 27 - 20, 1902

The Board conveneà at 9:00 a.m. on December 27. * Those

orosent were Di, Kittan,

Chairman, Board members Langer, Murphy,

Gray, Doolittle, Pace and Clifford and Messrs. Coyre and Ash.

Di. Killian suggested that Board members read the draft

report which had been

furnished to the Board on

day by Nr. McCone, the Director of Central Intelligence, setting

forth the results

of the all-ource revior wiich the Board hari

requested concerning U.S. intelligence conmunity activities with

respect to the soviet military buildup in Cuba during the 6-months

preceding October 22, 1962.

The Chairman asked that Boare members

make note of any comments and questions they might wish to raise

for discussion

during this

twe-day meeting.

Di. Killian said that

he was not

sure the DCI's repcrt had the approval of the intelli-

gence community at this point,

for he understood that Mir. Mccone

was at that moment reviewing the draft report in seattle,

was possible that some of the conclusions and factual details

night not nave yet received final approval by the agencies whion

the preparatior of the report fold, bid,

State and

Accordingly, the Chairan noted the Importance or the

discussions which

the Board wculd have on the following day witn

heads of the intelligence agercies.

The Chairman also thought

preparation

of a board report

to the President at the close of ühis 2-day meeting.

Killlan said that he had very recently calked co Mr.

McGeorge Bundy who hopes that the Board will take the time it needs

to produce a solid report on the handling given by U.S. Intelli-

gence agencies to the soviet military bulldup in cuna.

Mr. Bundy

assured that the President will understand that the Board is going

into the subject deeply and oljectively.

Abnut 10 days ago, the

Chairman related, he had received a telephone call from Mi.

that he had seen an early draft of the DCI's report (from

a confidential source) and was concerned because the report did not

get to the basic Issues,

and Mr. Bundy expressed an intention to

talk to Mr. Mcuone about this.

DE. Killian stated that he had an

appointment to see Mr. Bundy later in the morning at which time he

would ask Mr. Bundy to meet with the Board during the course of

this meeting.

Board members Baker and lend were unable to attend.

Handle Via COMINT. TALENT - KEYHOLE E

har dle via. BYEMAN

$ Channels

Cór trol Systém.

TOE SECAE"

---

## Page 6

¡ HOP SECRET

24-day stay in Cuba,

and our, covement, lacqually. In the dark

alout Soviet and Cuban plans for further activities involving

other countries in this Hemisphere.: Also we are lacking inter-

fiscussions.

ir. Hurphy reiterated

his concern that our lack of information on such matters as these,

indicates the absence of an adequate intelligence capability to

keep

our Government inforned

aboü developments in Cuba at the pre-

sent

time and in the future.

De: Killian at this, point ported to. the Board on the con

versation inich he hadijust. hau with fir. sunay.

According to

Bundy, the Fresidentiis fully aware that the Board is con-

its review of the cuba situation.

The President wants

an vijecülve report froma group of citizens who have no are to

and he is placing great store on this effort of the Board.

The Chairman said

that Mr. Bundy was

obviously concerned about

the prospect that the Congress will make inquiries into the Cuba

However, Mr. Bundy lecis there is a bare possibility that

Congressional investigators will

be more hesiient to raise hypo-

chetical questions if they leain

of the existence of a study having

seen made by a group such as the Board.

It is lir. Bundy's hope

that the Board will carefully consider the preparation of a sani-

tized version of the report;

but if the. Board and the President feel

that this cannot be done: then the Board

should try to prepare a

report wich could be used

in executive session of a Committee of

she Congress.

Dr. Hillian

went, on to report other matters which had been

covered in his discussion with Mir. Bundy.

He said that Mr. Bundy•

had expressed concern over the failure of the doI to accept the

Sudgestion that there be submiüted a more adequate report than the

one

the DCI forwarded io the Board on Decender 26.

Bundy

noted in shis connection

that the DCI's report assigns to policy

maicers prime responsibility.

for my failures with respect to

intelligence handling.

on the question of availability of Special Group records for

purposes of the Boardes scudy, Mr. Bundy infoimed the chairman a

Chat certainly the Board should axamine such recoras and that

chey could be obtained. from.Mr. Parrott (Mr.

• Bundy commented thatv

the board. is tie only group.whic..can nave.this lind. of.access).

Handle Via COMINT-TALEW KEYHOLE

Channels Ois

Hangle via BYEMAN

Control

MOP SECRET

---

## Page 7

TOP SECRET

As to the Board's"squay,

Bundly told Dr. Killian that

snould include in its review discussions with the

Secretaries of State and Defense and the Chairman of the Joint.

Chiefs of Staff - Mr.

Bunay ind: cating that the Secretary of

Defense has particular reservations about the DCI!s report.

Another matter mentioned by. Vir. Bundy was his belief that

the morale of the intelligence

community as a whole stands to

suffer in the absence. of

a carefully done revier and report

wnich is being expected. from the Board.

with regard to the interim eport which the Board has under

Mr. Bundy informed the Chat:man that the report could be

Melivered to hin or 1t could be presented to the Fresident directly,

thought 1t important that the Board present st to.

the President in person.

"Onelother matter discussed was the Board's

concern about any intelligence let-doin in the wake of the Cuba

crisis, it being vir. Bundy's bel ef that no such let-down is in

prospect if present

dircotives. and discussions on the subject have

any effect in Government.

(st the conclusion of the Chairman's account of his discussion

with ME. Bundy, the Board recessid for Lunci.)

At 2:30 p.n., the Board was briefed on the world situation by

Thomas Lavlor

• senior Intelligence officer in CIA's Office of

Intelligence (Mr. Ray Cline, Deputy DCJ/ Intelligence was

on vacation leave and not availasie

to be present at this Board

meeting).

li. Lawlor explained that his own responsibilities in

the handling of current intelligence matters,

ano write-up of current intelligence items (e.f., in the CIB and In :

menoranda for the White House),' and the preparation of internal in-

telligence nutes for use at the sIA working level.

jir, Lawlor

pointed out that his duties were in the areas of analysis an?

production, not the coliection, of intelligence.

His briefing of

the Board Included the following subject matters:

USSR/Chicon relations: Recriminations between the USSR and ge:

Conmuna.se

China are the greatest in the history of their dispute,

and an

open bear in party relations is nost likely near

USSR/Cuba:

The UiSk'is presently reappraising its: foreign

policy posteions leite leht of the Cuba crisis afterman:

and this./sutraceable to

Handle Via COMINT TALENT, KEYHOLE

Channels &nly

ITOR SECRET

---

## Page 8

.....

TOP, SECRET

20.

•Tha Chairman

asked the ncI whether the MONGOOSE activity

presented any particular"intelligence, problem in the Cuba:

situation.

McCone said' hat. it had not.

He said. that

in the MONGOOSE activity the Special Group

and the Attorney

General had

given a great dent of consideration to the need

for intelligence collection 11th: respect tu Cuba,

but the

Intelligence needed was primirily:for covert action rather

than other purposes.

• Nevertheless, the MONGOOSE activity!

contributed to the over-all intelligence collection effort

Fir. McCone recalled that there was a hiatus in the

as surprised to learn'that no

Interrogation of Cuban refugees

vas aking plase. Thereafter, following discussions with

the Presiden's and the Attorney. General they got the

refugee,

Interrogations under. way. M2 9

fir. Murphy wondered why there had been a let-down in

intelligence gathering after

the Bay of Pigs incident.

Mocone said that this took pace before his time, but he

assumed that the reasons had

to do with discouragement and

other psychological factors.

In response to Di. Killian's

question as to whether anothur intelligence let-down was in

store in the wake of the Cubi: crisis, Mr. McCone said that

there was in fact a great danger of such a development followings

what some officials consider was an "intelligence victory"

for the United States.

SA-2's remain in Cuba,

a week ago at an NSC Executire Committee meeting, and the

President had agreed to get lord to the USSR that any inter-:

ference with our aerial recornaissance of Cuba would be

considered as being most grave

-- and Messrs. McCloy and

Stevenson lave passed this.word. to Kuznetsov.

Mr. McCone:

added

suspended, should

nded whole anyone i one men at have bent

necessary. to obtain President 1al approval of the resu

otion

of. low-level'flights,

Mr. Pace inquired as to whether'there were any prohibitions

on the conduct of. inteiligen e operations with regard to? Cuba.

at ten de seven traded too more kene sve

directed.toward the obtaining.of./stralght

Intelligence on Cubai: (In llen or: political warfare,: for example

to decermine the, trend tof i So! lettiplans:1n,Cuba. The DCI noted

in

Chants only

TOl System

TOP SEORET

---

## Page 9

•TOP SECRET

(V

fact take one step back and tic

steps forward,

and hold' on to

the Cuba real

estate"as.a.propiganda and:ingurgency base,

as a means of keeping Castro u der control, or in order to

retain a capability: for quickiestoration

ofia Soviet offensive

capability.

The kind of concerted'intelligence action which

the De had in mind would inclide: 1"penetration. of/the:Castro

government regime,

placement of additional agent toams i

(3) the continuation:f efforts to obtain the assistancer

representatives in Cuba. (4). the is

Dossible

obtaining or uselut Ir telligence from

and (5) Doss1b1y

the obtaining of useful informition fromi

With Castro and who

yesterday askeduto scout

seckaU.?S. intelligence officer.

Mr. Pace asked whether Mr. McCone would favor the use of

Guantanamo Naval Base as a base :for launching intelligence.and

related overations against Cube.

Mr. McCone said that he would

favor of this because if we were caught using Guantanamo

for intelligence operations Castro would obtain UN and other

support

for Cuba's demands for !'.S. el acuation of the Naval Base.

Answering General: Doolittle's question, the DCI stated that

:U-2 overflights of Cuba were: gring: at the rate of two a day, re-

sulting in coverage of all targets once a week and in coverage of

some important targets' (e.g., larbors) more often.

Mr. lictone said

that COMOR and USIB. 11st: the

flight schedules.

he pursets and that he then establlahes

joing back to the subject:,!. Guantanamo.

Pace.asked whether

she Del had made a study of thi exoected intelligence return that!:

would be obtained 1f-intelligence operations were conducted' from.

the Base -- Mr. Pace: adding thit. he

thought such a study should.be

made before a final. policy dec: sion was,reached.

Mr.. MeCone said.

that he had not made such"

that he had no nade it a hoose at the poly Ques

wastopposed. at the policy. level

Mr. McCone said that he would nothber opposed to,a restudy of the

¡ proposal at thistime rin ansverato; di & killlan!s Inquiry; ME

McCone confirmed-thattwe/are. conducting.

and Mr.:Kirkpatricl:notea-that

onlytrecentzy

added.two.more. positions;

handle Xia, COMINT TALENT KEYHOLE

Channels Only

System:

ITOCISECRET

---

## Page 10

22

STOP SECRELAM

B PLUS" Murphy asked the DCI to'state: the meaning of

"MONGOOSE

explained.

hat in the MONGOOSE Group 1t"'*

was originally conceived that Piase I would be one of gathering:

intelligence on the possibilities

for the organization

and

supply

of resistance groups within Cuba, but this effort was "only fairly

successful" because Castro has. some 100,000 Informers in place in y

Cuba and exercises internalisec irity controls through a system of:

ration cards, and therefore,

CIA did not get as many teams into

Cuba

as had been hoped.

Augist 10, Phase II was reached with

MONGOOSE

planning for (a) violent actions (b) a relatively migh

level of actions,

or. "B. PLUS"

and lesser autions, or "B MINUS"

Mr. McCone said that he had not been prepared to endorse proposed

"в

PLUS" actiong in the absence of plans for military backing,

because of his own speculation that the U.S. would be faced with

MRBMs in Cuba.

In any case, the MONGOOSE effort became diverted

by considerations of Soviet:

activities in Cuba, Me. McCone

stated.

In answer to a question fron Mr. Murphy as to who chairs the

MONGOOSE Group at this time,

1r. McCone said that he did not inow!

whether Mr. Bundy or the Attorrey, General was now serving as

Chairman.

With reference to the abserce of photographic evidence of Soviet

offensive missile deployment pilor to October 14 photography, Mr.

McCone said that 1f one looks at photography of Cuba obtained on

September

5 1t 1s possible.to. spot evidence of activity at the San

Cristobal MRBM site, but this ictivity could have been that of

agricultural workers and the evidence did not then point to missile

activity.

Dr.

Killlan noted tie Board's concern

ouflage operations may be deceiving us.

own great concern that the Soviets are

methods.

Acknowledging that our intelligence estimates leave a

certain margin for error, Mr. liccone noted that it is nevercheless

Impossible for us to say that we know all thas is going on in the

USSR with respect to missile

In response to Dr. Killian's

comment that public discussion seem to Indicate that U. S. misstie

capabilitles are superior/to. those of. the USSR,

the DOI considered

that any such conclusion is'er oneous and dangerous and could lead::

to a complacency which might will result in curtailment of the U.S.

missile program.

by an

economy-rinded Congress.: Mr. McCone added

that in his presentations: to. sulect Committees

of the Congress he

always expresses reservations.concerning Us missile superzoracy

32222744

':"

an' tibe seen" atMr: MeCone, said that

undoubtedly.therer startendenc

toward heavy dependence upon photo

graphicaintelligences

96422

Handle Via Com

IT TNEN KELON

Handles vaebrian

Control sistem

TOR SECRET

---

