178-10002-10479)

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

8/27/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

ROCKCOM
178-10002-10479

ASSASSINATION FILE

ASSASSINATION MATERIALS--MISC. ROCK/CIA (7)

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

CIA
19 JANUARY 1962

01/19/1962
5

KENNEDY, ROBERT

DOD

CIA

CARIBBEAN SURVEY GROUP
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

MEMORANDUM
‘Top Secret
Consulted
Withhold \
07/14/1993

NQJOINT STAFF OBJEGTION
TO DECLASSIFICATION

ae

bave:_MAP 2016

v9.1

26

HW 50955 DocId:32204636 Page 1


°178-10002-10479 i

HW 50955 DocId:

§2204636

Oo

Page 2

PR
ru WHITE 16)

Notificd at 1015 of meeting in Mr. Bob Kennedy's office

19 January 1962

at 1100 attended by Lansdale, Woodward (State), Helms (CIA),
wilson (USIA), Craig (DOD) at loth and Constitution, 1100,
wr, Kennedy's office. Personnel actually attending, the
meeting vere: Lanséale, Craig, Hand, Patchell, MeKanis, (CIA),
Hols, (CIA), Wilson. State Department representative failed
to report. Meeting opened with Lansdale covering 32 tasks
given various departments. Reported to Mr. Kennedy that the
project was in slow motion. We must get things off dead
center.. Mentioned there vere many taskings, some of which
may or may not work, It is high time the US Government gave
this project and the tasks involved a fair trial, Itis
high time the United States gets busy. Something to be

generated in the form of assets, etc. around the Caribbean

“MY CTWaD FHL HOME Le

basin, Lansdale reported that at the Special Group meeting 4
yesterday, General Taylor asked if the tasks had been &
accepted by various departments. Lansdale had replied that g
most had been accepted but not all, One task was the (FPG
defection of top Cubans in the Castro regime, This isa {2 &

(

thing CIA could handle and must. US got a NIG aircraft
that way once. Lansdale will be adding tasks from time to
time. Deadlines in,the plan issued and distributed yesterday

were developed carefully not haphazardly. As we become

ready in any phase we should push ahead, Lansdale expressed 7
nis concern regarding the absence of State representative at
the meeting. He does not feel that State ‘realizes the -
importance of this project. State should give this project
more emphasis. Lansdale mentioned Interrogation Center ‘
Opa-Tocka and ask Mr, FeMands to give Kr. Kennedy a brief
report. Requirements have been developed and submitted

to J-5, Joint Staff which is considering the support

required from the military. 11 CIA people are involved.

Plan is that CIA people will absorb military pareoiaore The

Tuterragation Center will be ready on schedule, but this

not mean that an cunderpround can be put into Cuba

EXC fOr GDS



HW 50955 Docid bouuese Page 3

find the key Communist informers in each village and

redband
simultaneously. We must first get the mass of ME MRT HOUSE EE i
before we can develop the necessary dope for underground.
Detailed fhformation for establishment of successful under-
ground is necessary. Mr. Wilson indicated that as the
Interrogation Center gets information available, USIA
can use it for broadcasts, news items, ete. The Attorney
General asked what is being done with the people, i.e., refugees
who have already escaped from Cuba. McMan&s replied CIA
trying to get people particularly who have come out’ since
October. Kr. Kennedy feels that the people who have escaped in

the last 6 months are important. His view is that we must

province who back the Communist regime. We must find out
how the operation was conducted 6 months ago. How it “is

conducted now. What changes. What those changes imply.

lod "HU GTVYAD AHL WOW AdOOOLOHa

We must determine those people who are potential assets,
those unfriendly to Castro. Mr. Kennedy stated that

money is no object.” McMants reported that US has a base

A

of 400 Cubans with knowledge. Mr., Kennedy referred to a

recent project involving plecement of 3 operators into 9 FORN
5 ~
Cuba recently which were picked up within 3 days. He a S
5, 2
stated that if the United States had known the facts Sie

or had full information, we could have avoided this

failure. Mr. Kennedy indicated that people involved required

for the Interrogation Center as interrogators, etc. should .?
be no objection. We will get the people no matter where

they must come fron. We must cause Castro trouble that

is meaningful. Lansdale brought up necessity for military i
personnel operating in the Interrogation Center wearing

civilian clothes. Mr. Kennedy did not comment on this.

Neither did Kr. NeManls. USIA feels that Interrogation

Center will be very useful to the USIA. Lansdale brought

up the necessity for getting names of relatives of Cubans

who have been persecuted or exceuted by the Communist and

sganda in Cuba. kr. Kennedy concluded the meeting by

arizing the situation as follows:



He stated how the project Caribbean Survey Group got

+. started. Immediately following the April fiasco, the US

government had to lie low for obvious reasons. During this =.
O interim period first. the middle class refugees and then the
farmer refugees stated out. General concensus of these
refugees that a strong feeling is, cropping up against
Castro within Cuba but also the Cuban military is getting
stronger day by day and Castro's control is drawing tighter
and tighter. Time is decidedly in Cuba's behalf. With this
jn mind the government decided to-do something. General

Lansdale was told to make an appraisal at a meeting at

the White House. Two week survey was made and Lansdale — pa

reported to the President in late November. Results were

“a aveiao HL HOWd AdODOLONA

ie) that Lansdale was directed to go ahead. A major effort
was definitely worthwhile. A real drive end real effort can

provide meaningful results. We must cause Castro. trouble oe
° t02,

2
‘

a
and worry regarding the retention of his control of Cuba. fe

uVaGIT Cuod

This will not give him time to cause-trouble in other

C.

i Latin American countries, since he will be busy trying to
assure his official and personal survival.

When the President had asked President Diem ‘of South Vietnam
yhat he wanted most from the United States, he indicated
he’ wanted General Lansdale. This caused a competition
between State, Defense, and the White House. State wanted a
Lansdale in Southeast Asia. ur. Kennedy felt sure that
State wanted Lansdale in Vietnam because Diem wanted him
there ~ and for no other reason. Mr. J. F, Kennedy wanted
him working onthe Caribbean Survey Group, This project

5 has priority and General Lansdale was placed on it.

Initially, Nr. Kennedy had honed we could get something
going to harass the work of the Cubans in harvesting their
sugar. We still have the problem of interfering with the
sugar harvest. :
| This project in-Cirst priority of all projects under way
1e) by the United States of America. Tine, effort, manpower,

Indicated

dollars ore not to be spared. The President hy

i
|
|

HW 50955 DocId:32204636 Page 4


NW 50955 DocId:92204636 Page 5

that Castro cannot be tolerated and the final chapter to;

this has not been written. Mr. Bob Kennedy indicated that

J. F. Kennedy made this report at an NSC meeting. Mr. Y conan

Bob Kennedy will be watching conduct and the progress of this

project. The group will be required to make periodically

reports to the 5412 Group. If it does not go, 7oU the

members of the Caribbean Survey Group are responsible,

“Tmagination, ideas, thoughts and these are to be forwarded

to General Lansdale. These are important to the project.

Member's of this group mst not wait and react only to

Lansdale's guidance they must produce ideas and thoughts of
their own. :

wohe big bird is on your shoulders, you members of

ID FHL WOUd AdODOLOHA

the group.’ There is no question but that you must see

that absolutely nothing stands in the vey. We must do
this job now. We cannot stand by and set om our ---- bd
We must: get going now. This is not a 3 oF 4 year project g
put an immediate one that must show results now. zach s
of you as Senior representatives of your department hes z

&

ra all

. MeCone, Er, Ken

full authority. Mr. Rusk,

understand this. You have absolute authority in your

respective agencies where this project is involved, and if

you are held back on anything by blocks within the Departments

want you to’ tell me or General Lansdale and ha will tell
me, Iwill see that the blocks are moved- There will be
ssfully accomplished." 77

no excuses if the project is not succe.

After the above orientation by Mr- Bob Kennedy, there is no /aitiraenet

doubt in my mind but that the Caribbean Survey Group has

the full backing of the President of the United States, z

>

wei?



19 Janasry 1962
Prepared and dispatched memorandum Gen, Lansdale.

gubject: Situation at Guantanamo, See copy in Record.

Prepared Memorandui for Record of tae conference with

Mr. Bob Kennedy.

=
E
Ed
&

#0,

EeRALo
<a yues>

O

EXC Ueto [PO CDS

buy Gihueed tat

HW 50955 DocId: 204636 Page 6
