# 178-10003-10105

## Page 1

178-10003-10105|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/27/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

KISS/SCOW

178-10003-10105

CHURCH COM.

7506462 (3)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA

FROM: CHURCH, FRANK

TO:

BUCHEN, PHILIP W.

TITLE:

DATE: 08/29/1975

PAGES: 20

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT REQUEST, CHURCH COM.

CHURCH COMMITTEE

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

ASSASSINATIONS, FOREIGN LEADERS

DOCUMENT TYPE: LIST

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

' RESTRICTIONS: IC

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Includes list of 117 quotations proposed for use in Church Committee assassinations report.

NH 50955 DocId:32204510

Page 1

75

---

## Page 2

WRANK SHUNCH. 1BАНА. CHAINMAN

HONN O, TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

ROBERT MORGAN, N.C.

GARY HART, COLO.

United States Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO M. RES. 21, MTH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

August 29, 1975

The Honorable Philip W. Buchen

Counsel to the President

The White House

Washington, D.C. 20500

Dear Mr. Buchen:

Pursuant to our understanding, we annex hereto

quotations from various documents which may be used in a

report on the assassinations allegations.

If you have

any questions, please contact

01

counsel.

178-10004-10239

!

More Canad

178-10004-10088

John tow

178-10003-10339

PHOTOCOPY

FROM

THE GERALD R.

FORD LIBPARY

178-10003-10105

UNMARKED

MAY CONTAIN NATL SECURITY INFORMATION

HH 50955

DocId:32204510 Page 2

---

## Page 3

1.

4/24/60

2.. 6/28/60

3. 7/1/60

4.

10/3/60

5.

12/29/60

6. 1/12/61

Memo, Sec. of State Herter to President Eisenhower

"the United States would immediately take political

action to remove Trujillo from the Dominican Republic

as soon

as a suitable successor can be induced

to

take over with the assurance of U. S. political,

economic, and -- if necessary - military support."

Memo, CIA to J. C. King

"c.

Would it provide a small number of sniper

rifles or other devices for the removal of key

Trujillo people from the scene?"

CIA memo

"Providing the arms as requested would contribute

significantly toward this

end."

CIA memo

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD 1

"a.

Delivery of approximately 300 rifles and

pistols

together with ammunition and a supply of

grenades, to secure cache on the South shore of the

island,

about 14 miles east of Ciudad Trujillo.

"b.

Delivery, to the same cache described above,

of an electronic detonating device with remote

control features, which could be planted by the

dissidents in such manner as to eliminate certain

Key Trujillo henchmen.

This might necessitate train-

ing

and introducing into the country by illegal entry o

a trained technician to set the bomb and detonator."

(Emphasis added)

Special Group Minutes

"the proposed actions would not, of themselves

LIBPARY

bring about the desired result in the near

future lacking some decisive stroke against Trujillo

himself."

Special Group Minutes

"Mr. Merchant explained the feeling of the Depart-

ment of State that limited supplies of small arms

and other material should be made available for

dissidents inside the Dominican Republic. Mr. Parrott

said

that we believe this can be managed securely by

CIA, and that the plan, would call for final trans.;"

portation into the country being provided by the

dissidents themselves.

The Group approved the

NH 50955

DocId: 32204510

Page

---

## Page 4

7.

1/12/61

8.

1/12/61

9.

1/31/61

10.

2/13/61

11. 2/16/61

12. 3/16/61

Memo, Mann to Merchant

"Opposition elements have consistently asked us to

supply them with

"hardware" of various types. This

has included quantities of conventional arms and

also, rather persistently, they have asked for

some of the more exotic items and devices which

they

associate with revolutationary effort."

Memo,

Scott to Merchant

"agreed in terms of Tom Mann's memo"

Cable, Dearborn to Devine

"delighted" "exotic equipment."

CIA memo

"the key to the success of the plot Ito overthrow

the Trujillo regimel would be the assassination

of Trujillo."

CIA memo

"(a) Ex-FBI agents who would plan and execute

the death of trujillo.

(b) Cameras and other items that could be used

to fire projectiles.

(c) A chemical that could be rubbed on the palm

of one's hand and transferred to Trujillo in

a handshake, causing delayed lethal results.

(d) Silencers for rifles that could kill from a

distance of several miles. (Id.)"

CIA memo

PHOTOCOPY FROM

THE GERALD R.

FORD

LIBPARY

". . . the members of our club are now prepared in

their minds to have a picnic but do not have the

ingredients for the salad.

developed a plan for the picnic, which just might

an a phan

Lately they have

work if they could find the proper food.

They have

asked us for a few sandwiches, hardly more, and we

are not prepared to make them available.

Last week

we were

asked to furnish three or four pineapples

for a party in the near future but I could remember

nothing in my instructions that would allow me to

contribute this ingredient.

Don't think I wasn't "

tempted.

I have rather specific guidelines to the

effect that salad ingredients will be delivered

outside the picnic grounds

and will be brought to

the area

by another club."

HH

50955

DocId: 32204510

Page 1

---

## Page 5

13.

3/24/61

14.

4/11/61

15.

4/7/61

16. 2/14/61

17.

5/13/61

18.

5/4/61

Cable, Headguarters to Station

". . . we should attempt to avoid percipitous

action by the internal dissidents until opposition

groups and HQS are better prepared to support

(assassination] *effect a change in the regime,

CIA memo for the record

"especially on the insistence of the (dissidents]

that they be provided with

a limited number of

small arms for their own protection (specifically,

five M3 -45 caliber

SMGs)."

Pouch restriction waiver

"four M3 machine guns and 240 rounds of ammunition

on a priority basis for issue to a small action

group to be used for self-protection."

Special Group Minutes

"(a) Dominican Republic -- Mr. Bundy asked that

a memorandum be prepared for higher authority on

the subject of what plans can be made for a

successor government to Trujillo."

Berle memo of conversation

"On cross examination it developed that the

real plan was

to assassinate Trujillo and they

wanted guns for that purpose:

Herbert wanted

to know what the policy should be.

FROM THE GERALD R. FORD LIBPARY

"I told him I

could not care less for Trujillo

and that this was the general sentiment. But we

did not wish to have anything to do with any

assassination plots anywhere, any time.

Herbert

said he felt the same way."

Special Group Minutes

"The DCI referred to recent reports of a new

anti-Trujillo plot.

He said we never know if

one of these is going to work or not, and asked

what is the status of contingency planning

should

the plot come off. Mr. Bundy said that this point

is covered in a Cuba paper which will be discussed r

at a high level in the very near future."

HH 50955

DocId: 32204510

Page

5

---

## Page 6

..--

is.

5/18/61

2.0.

21.

5/15/61

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R. FORD LIBPARY

22.

5/17/61

23.

5/21/61

Special Group Minutes

"Gen.

Cabell [Deputy DCI] noted that the internal

dissidents were pressing for the release to them

of certain small arms now in U. S. hands in the

Dominican Republic.

He inquired whether the

feeling of the Special Group remained that these

arms should not be passed.

The members showed no

inclination to take a contrary position at this

time."

(Emphasis supplied)

State Department Document, Select Committee No. 313

"1.

The USG should not lend itself to direct

political assassination.

2.

US moral posture can ill afford further

3.

tarnishing in the eyes of the world.

We would be encouraging the action, supplying

the weapons, effecting the delivery, and then

turning over only the final execution to

(unskilled) local triggermen.

4.

So far we have seen no real evidence of action

capability.

Should we entrust ourselves and

our reputation to this extent in the absence

thereof?

5.

Can we afford a precedent which may convince

the world that our diplomatic pouches are used

to deliver assassination weapons?"

Memo, Battle to Bundy

"at their own initiative and on their own respons-

ibility in forming an acceptable provisional govern-

ment they can be assured that any reasonable request

for assistance from the U. S. will be promptly and

favorably answered."

Cable, Headquarters to Station

"armed assistance"

Cable, Dearborn to State

"too late to consider whether United

States will

initiate

overthrow of Trujillo."

NW 50955

DooId:32204510

Page 6

---

## Page 7

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

5/24/61

5/24/61

5/26/61

5/26/61

5/20/61

Cable, Headquarters to Station (not sent)

" (1)

To be so associated. with removal Trujillo

regime as to derive credit among dissidents

and liberal elements throughout Latin America;

"(2)

To disassociate US from any obvious inter-

vention in Dominican Republic and even more so

from any political assassination which might

occur.

"former

objective cannot, repeat not, easily override

latter."

Memo, Achilles to Bowles

"for Bundy to present tomorrow morning."

Memo, Bowles to Bundy

"Following up on our discussion of the Dominican

Republic at yesterday's meeting of the Special

Group, I am forwarding you a draft telegram which

we would like to send to Henry Dearborn, our Consul

General in Ciudad Trujillo, supplementing the

guidance he will be receiving on the recently

approved contingency plans."

Cable, Smith & Clifton to Bundy & 0 'Donnell

• we must not run risk of U.S. association with

political assassination, since U.S: as matter of

general policy cannot condone assassination.

This

last principal is overriding and must prevail in

doubtful situation."

"Continue to inform dissident

elements of U.S. support for their position."

Cable, Station to Headquarters

"HQS aware extent to which U.S. government already

associated with assassination.

If we are to at

least cover up tracks, CIA personnel directly involved

in assassination preparation must be withdrawn."

ITH

50955

DocId: 32204510

Page

PHOTOCOPY

FROM

THE GERALD R.

FORD LIBPARY

---

## Page 8

ni.

29. 7/22/60

30. 5/14/62

31. 5/14/62

32. 5/14/62

33. 8/1/62

34. 8/7-10/62

35. 8/16/63

36. 11/18/63

Cable, Havana to Dinector

"calculated risk"

Memo, Edwards to Kennedy

"At the time of the incident neither the Agency nor the

undersigned knew of the proposed technical installation."

Memo, Edwards to Kennedy

"Mahe stated that Sam Giancana thought that Phyllis MoGuire

might know of the proposed operation and might pass on the

information to one Dan Rowan, a friend of McGuire's."

Memo, Edwards to Kennedy

"Approached by the FBI, he could refer them to me to be

briefed that he was engaged in an intelligence operation

directed at Cuba."

Contact Report, Case Officer 1

"could do something really significant for the creation of

a new Cuba."

Contact Report, Case Officer 1

"It was not the act that he objected to, but merely the

choice of the word used to describe it.

'Eliminate' was

acceptable. "

Cable, Station to Headguarters

"Have no intention give AMIASH-physical elimination mission

try to carry out on his own initiative."

Memo, Case Officer 2

"C/SAS (Fitzgerald) approved telling AMIASH-1 he would be

given a cache inside Cuba. Cache could, if he requested it,

include...high powered rifles with scopes..."

NH 50955 DocId: 32204510 Page B

---

## Page 9

^:::

37.

4/4/62

38.

4/26/62

39.

5/14/62

39a. 5/14/62

Memo for record, Edwards

"any prosecution in the matter would endanger sensitive

sources and methods used in a duly authorized intelligence

project and would not be in the national interest."

Memo, Houston to Edwards

"no major difficulty in stopping action for prosecution."

"doubted if we would want to give the full story to anyone

else in the Department.

"operational details."

"on grounds of security."

Memo for record, Edwards

"conducted during the period approximately August 1960 to

May 1961,"

"After the failure of the invasion of Cuba word was sent

through Maheu to Roselli to call off the operation and

Roselli was told to tell his principal that the proposal

to pay $150,000 for completion of the operation had been

Memo for reoord, Edwards

"On this date MI. Harvey called me and indicated that he was

dropping any plans for the use of subject (Roselli) for the

50955

DocId: 32204510

Page

9

PHOTOCOPY

FROM

THE

GERALD

FORD LIBPARY

---

## Page 10

40.

8/13/62

41.

8/13/62

42. 8/14/62

43.

8/14/62

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R. FORD LIBPARY

44. 8/14/62

45. 8/14/62

Memo, Lansdale to Harvey

"liquidation of leaders."

"In compliance with the desires and guidance expressed

in the August 10 policy meeting on Operation Mongoose,

we will produce an outline of an alternate Course B

for submission. "

"I believe the paper need contain only a statement of

objectives and a list of implementing activities. The

list of activities will be under the heading of:

military, de Militica,, Economic, Psychological, Para-

Meno, Lansdale to Harvey

"Mr. Harvey: Intelligence, Political, (words deleted),

Economic, (sabotage, limited deception), and Para-

military." (Lansdale, Ex. 15, p. 1).

Memo, Harvey to Helms

"including liquidation of leaders."

Memo, Harvey to Helms

"The question of assassination, particularly of Fidel

Castro, was brought up by Secretary McNamara at the

meeting of the Special Group (Augmented) in Secretary

Rusk's office on 10 August. It was the obvious con-

sensus at that meeting, in answer to a comment by Mr.

Ed Murrow, that this is not a subject which has been

made a matter of official reoord. I took careful notes

conments or study on this point." (Lansdale Ex. 16).

Memo, Harvey to Helms

"the inadmissibility and stupidity of putting this type of

comment in writing in such a document.

"would write no document pertaining to this and would

participate in no open meeting discussing it."

Memo, Harvey to Helms

"a matter of official record."

pointot expecting any written carments of study on this

NY 50955 DocId:32204510 Page 10

---

## Page 11

46.

8/10/62

47.

8/8/62

48.

8/10/62

49.

8/10/62

50. 8/10/62

51. 8/10/62

52. 8/10/62

Minutes, Special Group Augmented

"stepped-up Course B"

Memo for Special Group Augmented

"exert all possible diplomatic, economic, psychological,

and other overt pressures to overthrow the Castro-Communist

regime, without overt employment of U.s. military."

Minutes, Special GrOup Augmented

"emphasized the desirability of attempting to create a split

between Castro and old-line Communists."

Mirutes, Special Group Augmented

"would hurt the U.S. in the eyes of world opinion."

Minutes, Special Group Augmented

"led to the suggestion by General Taylor that we should

consider changing the overall objective (of Mongoose) fron

one of overthrowing the Castro regime.".

Minutes, Special Group Augmented

"old-line Conmunists."

Minutes, Special Group Augmented

'The principal members of the Special Group felt, arte

ome discussion, that the CIA variant should be develope

further for consideration at next Thursday's meeting of

he Special Group. Motone was asked to stress eoonomic

sabotage, and to emphasize measures to foment a Castro-

oldline Communist split." (August Memorandum, p. 2) .

* * *

"Action to be taken:

CIA to prepare a new version of its variant plan, in

accordance with the above surmarized discussion. This

should be ready by Wednesday, August 15."

(August 10

Memorandum, p. 3) .

NW 50955 DocId: 32204510 Page 11

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R. FORD LIBPARY

тi.

---

## Page 12

53.

8/13/62

54.

8/10/62

55.

4/14/67

56. 8/14/62

Memo, Lansdale to Harvey

"in compliance with the desires and guidance expressed

in the August 10 policies meeting on Operation Mongoose,

we will produce an outline of an alternate Course B.

Indeed, pursuant to the August 10 decision to adopt

Motone's proposal for a more limited plan that assumed

Castro's continuation in power, Lansdale's memorandum

stated that a CIA paper titled "Operational Plan (Reduced

Effort) will be used as the starting basis."

Minutes, Special Group Augmented

"will risk inviting an uprising, which might result in a

Hungary type blood bath if unsupported."

"emphasized that the stepped-up plan should not be under-

taken unless the U.S, is prepared to accept attributability

for the necessary actions, including the eventual use ot

military force."

would avoid all of these dangers because it would not invite

an uprising."

Memo, Motone

"I recall a suggestion being made to liquidate top people

in the Castro regime, including Castro."

"I took immediate exception to this suggestion, stating that

the subject was completely out of bounds as far as the uss

(U.S. Government) and CIA were concerned and the idea should

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE

GERALD R.

FORD LIBPARY

(MoCone Ex. 4) .

"At no time did the suggestion receive serious consideration

by the Special Group (Augmented) nor by any individual re

sponsible for policy."

(McCone, Ex. 4).

"Irmediately after the meeting, I called on Secretary McNamara

personally and re-emphasized my position, in which he heartily

agreed. I did this because Operation Mongoose-an inter-

departmental affair-was under the operational control of (the

Defense Department) ... (Mocone Ex. 4) .

Memo, Harvey to Lansdale

"the Special Group (Augmented) is not expecting any written

carments of study on this point."

ri

NW 50955 DocId: 32204510 Page 12

---

## Page 13

?!.....

57. 6/24/66

58. 5/14/62

59. 5/14/62

60. 11/3/60

61. 4/26/62

PHOTOCOPY

FROM THE GERALD R. FORD LIBPARY

62.

8/16/63

Memo, Osborn to Helms

"the DCI was briefed and gave his approval."

(6/24/66)

Memo for record, Edwards

"then briefed the proper senior officials of [thel Agency."

"duly orally approved."

"knowledge."

"kept to a total of six persons."

Memo for reoord, Edwards

"cautioned him (Harvey] that I felt that any future projects

of this nature should have the tacit approval of the Director

of Central Intelligenoe."

Minutes, Special Group

"Finally, Mr. Merchant asked whether any real planning has

been done for taking direct positive action against Fidel,

Raul, and Che Guevara. He said that without these three the

Cuban Goverrment would be leaderless and probably brainless.

He conceded that it would be necessary to act against all

three simultaneously. General Cabell pointed out that action

of this kind is uncertain of results and highly dangerous ir

conception and execution, because the instruments must be

Cubans. He felt that, particularly because of the necessity

of simultaneous action, it would have to be concluded that

Mr. Merchant's suggestion is beyond our capabilities."

Minutes, Special Group Augmented

["field trip to Miami upon his return."]

Memo, Helms to MoCone

"vaguely aware."

"I assume you are aware of the nature of the operation

discussed in the attachment."

N# 50955

DocId: 32204510

Page

13

---

## Page 14

?..

63.

4/22/61

64.

6/13/61

Letter, President Kennedy to Taylor

"our practices and programs in the areas of military and

pata shirt of outright and anti-querilla activity which

Memo No. 4, Report to the President

"We have been struck with the general feeling that there can

be no long-term living with Castro as a neighbor.

His

continued presence within the hemispheric community as a

dangerously effective exponent of Communism and Anti-

Americanism constitutes à real menace capable of eventually

overthrowing the elected governments in any one or more of

weak Latin American republics."

65.

7/21/61

66.

10/5/61

67.

10/6/61

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R.

FORD LIBPARY

68.

10/6/61

69.

10/5/61

"It is reconmended that the Cuban situation be reappraised

in the light of all presently known factors and new guidance

se provided for political, military, economic and propagande

action against Castro,"

Memo for record, special Group Meeting

"is to provide support to a U.S, program to develop opposi-

tion to Castro and to help bring about a regime aoceptable

to the U.S."

NSAM 100

"In confimation of oral instructions conveyed to Assistant

Secretary of State Woodward, a plan is desired for the

indicated contingency."

Minutes, Special Group

"possible removal of Castro from the Cuban scene. "

Memo for reoord, Special Group Meeting

"a contingency plan in connection with the possible removal

of Castro from the Cuban scene."

Memo for record, Parrott

"what was wanted was a plan against the contingency that Castro

would in some way or other be removed from the Cuban scene."

NH 50955

DooId: 32204510

Page 14

---

## Page 15

-2-

70. 10/5/61

71. 10/5/61

72. 10/5/61

73. 10/5/61

74. 1961

75.

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R.

FORD LIBPARY

76. 1961

77.

78: 11/15/61

Memo for record, Parrott

"the presence and positions of Raul (Castro) and Che Guevara

must be taken into acoount."

Memo for record, Parrott

"the President's interest in the matter not be mentioned."

Memo for record, Parrott

"on the covert side, I talked to Tracy Barnes in CIA and

asked that an up-to-date report be furnished as soon as

possible on what is going on and what is being planned."

Memo for record, Parrott

"contingency that Castro would in some way of another be

removed from the Cuban scene."

"The Situation and Prospect in Cuba," CIA Board of National

Estimates.

"His (Castro's) loss now, by assassination or by natural

causes, would have an unsettling effect, but would almost

certainly not prove fatal to the regime... (i)ts principal

surviving leaders would probably rally together in the face

"same sort of power struggle would almost certainly develop

eventually."

"significantly."

Cover letter to CIA Estimate Report, Lansdale

"seems to be the major evidence to be used to oppose your

project. "

Report, CIA Board of National Estimates

"it is highly improbable that an extensive popular uprising

...could be fomented. "

Cover letter to CIA Estimate Report, Lansdale

"conclusion of fact quite outside the area of intelligence."

Memo, Lansdale to Kennedy

"picture of the situation has emerged clearly enough to

indicate what needs to be done and to support your sense of

urgency concerning Cuba."

• NW 50955 DocId:32204510 Page 15

---

## Page 16

79. 11/30/61

80. 1/19/62

81.

1/20/62

82. 1/30/62

83. 2/20/62

84. 1/30/62

Memo, White House to Secretary of State, et al.

"use our available assets... to help Cuba overthrow the

Communist regime."

Memo, McManus

"Conclusion Overthrow of Castro is Fossible."

"... 'a solution to the Cuban problem today carried top

oriority in U.S. Gov|ermenlt. No time, money, ertort

or manpower is to be spared.'"

"'Yesterday... the President had indicated to him' that final

chapter had not been written . its got to be done and will

be done."

Memo, Lansdale

"demands a change from business-as-usual and a hard facing

of the fact that you're in a combat situation where we have

been given full command."

Minutes, Special Group

"policy determination."

"Program Review of Cuba Project," Lansdale

"open revolt and overthrow of the Camunist regime."

"Resistance."

"attack on the cadre of the regime, including key leaders."

"This should be a 'Special Target' operation... Gangster

elements might provide the best recruitment potential for

actions against police - G2 [intelligence] officials."

Memo, Craig to Lansdale

"a concept for creating distrust and apprehension in the Cuban

Communist hierarchy."

"aste finial or and ring airate with position ava

"informer."

"goverment officials."

"25"

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R. FORD LIBPARY

HH 50955 DocId:32204510

Page 16

---

## Page 17

85. 11/30/62

86. 3/2/62

87. 3/5/62

88. 3/5/62

89.

3/5/62

90.

4/11/62

91. 4/10/62

Memo, President Kennedy

"kept closely informed."

Memo, Lansdale

"popular revolution."

Minutes, Special GrOup Augmented

"...any actions which are not specifically spelled out in

the plan but seem to be desirable as the project progresses,

will be brought to the Special Group for resolution,"

"Guidelines for Operation Mongoose."

"The Special Group (5412 Augmented) is responsible for

providing policy guidance to the (Mongoose) project, for

approving important operations and for monitoring progress."

Memo, Lansdale to Helms

"for each week as far into the next twelve months as possible

...the members and type of agents you will establish inside

Cuba... (and) brief descriptions...of actions contemplated."

Memo, Lansdale

"be submitted to the Special Group for decision, ad hoc."

Memo, Harvey to MoCone

"To permit requisite flexibility and professionalism for a

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R.

FORD

LIBPARY

92.

9/14/62

possible, be made less restrictive and less stultifying."

Memo, Special Group Augmented Meeting

"...made it clear that this did not constitute a blanket

approval of every item in the paper and that sensitive ones

such as sabotage, for example, will have to be presented in

more detail on a case by case basis."

NH 50955

DocId: 32204510

Page 17

---

## Page 18

222..

93.

3/5/62

94. 10/16/62

95. 11/5/62

96. 4/11/62

97. 3/14/62

98. 3/2/62

99. 8/8/62

100. 8/10/62

Minutes, Special Group Meeting

"preliminary actions... involving such things as spotting,

assessing and training action-type agents."

"keep its hand tightly."

"that many of the agents infiltrated would be of an all-

purpose type; that is, they would be trained in para-

nilitary skills, as well as those of exclusively intelli-

gence concern.

It was noted that once the agents are

within the country, they cannot be effectively controlled

from the U.S., although every effort will be made to

attempt such control."

Memo, Helms

"pointed out that (Mongoose) had been underway for a year

...that there had been no acts of sabotage and that even

the one which had been attempted had failed twice."

Memo, McManus to Helms

"During the past year, while one of the options of the

project was to create internal dissension and resistance

leading to eventual U.S. intervention, a review shows that

policymakers not only shied away from the military inter-

vention aspect but were generally apprehensive of sabotage

Memo, Lansdale

"essentially an intelligence collection."

"Guidelines for Operation Mongoose."

montadiate priority objective of U.S. efforts in the coming

"short of those reasonably calculated to inspire a revolt."

Memo, Lansdale

"must be inconspicuous."

Memo, Lansdale for Special Group Augmented

"stepped-up Course B plus."

Minutes, Special Group Augmented

"CIA variant."

"old-line Communists."

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R. FORD LIBPARY

NW 50955 DocId: 32204510 Page 18

---

## Page 19

101. 10/4/62

102. 8/23/62

103. 10/4/62

104. 10.16.62

105. 9/9/62

106. 8/31/62

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R.

FORD LIBPARY

107. 9/12/62

108. 4/19/62

Minutes, Special Group Augmented Meeting

"is concerned about progress on the Mongoose program and

feels that more priority should be given to trying to

mount sabotage operations."

"considerably more sabotage."

"all efforts should be made to develop new and imaginative

approaches with the possibility of getting rid of the

Castro regime."

NSAM 100

"in light of evidence of new Bloc activity in Cuba."

"with all possible speed."

Minutes, Special Group Augmented

"for the time being."

Memo, Helms

"more personal attention."

Minutes, Special Group Augmented Meeting

"It was suggested that the matter of attacking and harassing

of Soviet personnel within Cuba should be considered. "

Memo, Lansdale to Special Group Augmented

"to provoke incidents between Cubans and Bloc personnel to

exacerbate tensions."

Memo, Lansdale to Taylor, Rusk, and McNamara

"emphasizing such activity."

"cause actions by Cubans against Bloc personnel."

"considerations will be given to provoking and conducting

physical attacks on Bloc personnel."

Memo, Lansdale to Special Group

"Upon the return of Mr. Harvey from his current field visit,

no operation one i me caste sent training

NH 50955 DocId:32204510 Page 19

---

## Page 20

:

109. 4/26/62

110. 4/26/62

111. 4/27/62

112. 5/3/62

113. 4/14/67

Memo, Lansdale to Special Group (Augmented]

"initiating a new series of agent infiltrations."

Memo for reoord, Molone

"attend the next meeting and report on agent activities."

Memo, Elder to Harvey

"inmediately on your return to discuss the Task Force

activities."

Meno, Harvey on Special Group Augmented Meeting

"agent teams."

"general field of intelligence."

Memo, MoCone to Helms

"dispose of Castro,"

"knock off Castro,"

"the overthrow of the Cormunist Goverrment in Cuba."

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R. FORD LIBPARY

:: ;

.

NH

50955

DooId: 32204510

Page

20

---

## Page 21

- ........

114. 1/13/60

115. 3/14/60

116. 11/3/60

117.

3/14/60

Memo, Special Group Meeting

"the CIA did not have in mind a quick elimination of Castro"

Special Group Minutes

"there was a general discussion as to what would be the

effect on the Cuban scene if Fidel and Raul Castro and Che

Guevera should disappear sirultaneously."

Special Group Minutes

"whether any real planning had been done for taking direct

positive action against Fidel, Raul and Che Guevara"

"that action of this kind is uncertain of results and highly

dangerous in conception and execution, because the instruments

must be Cubans.

He felt that, particularly because of the

necessity for simultaneous action, it would have to be

concluded that (such action) is beyond our capabilities."

Special Group Minutes

"Admiral Burke said that the only organized group within Cuba

today were the Communists and there was therefore the danger

they might move into control."

NH

50955

DocId: 32204510

Page

21

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R. FORD LIBPARY

---

