# 179-20001-10304

## Page 1

179-20001-10304

Date: 08/17/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINACION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY

INFORMATION

AGENCY : DOJ

RECORD NUMBER

: 179-20001-10304

RECORDS SERIES

CLASSIFIED SUBJECT FILE 129-11, ENCLOSUR 3S, SERIAL. #71

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE :

DATE : 05/08/67

PAGES

: 32

SUBJECTS :

GARRISON, JAMES, INVESTIGATION, KEY FIGURES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: U

RESTRICTIONS

: REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW. : / /

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

MEMORANDUM WITH 28

EnCLOSUrES. BOX 65

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 48511

DocId: 32207090

Page 1

---

## Page 2

2

OLive Sac

DiE: 80158,06101

Autony 6/112

5pa Mis Dis /05705

8 May 1967

MEMORANDOM NO. 2

SU SJECE

RESTRONGS

CARAION ad the Kensedy Assassinatioa

:

C1/12:A Nicmozedum sf 26 Apr11 1907,

subject ad above

An eltort has bado toade to fecatity all CIA craployees ia New

Colcano, so that are shall hove a recoy chocibat if Dietsiot Aboraoy

CAEDUCON matos atatendesio exout ory of thora to the proca, astoungta to

bring chargos agadaci thom so to curpoose Bion, on take Conci actica

dionorantagsons to Can.

Thio Hat, soconce of ito soccitivity, io lockros

co Daclosose 38 with only then: copius, of this memozenduse viich coo

addressed to the ADOP and the jogci Councel.

alphabotical listing of key figazes is fac caso to dater Ouc Parade i.

Jaucede correspoodent who de: cous no Baclosues & do petercace, b=a

beca azoppod as perichoral.

anomocindum use andidons to Die contiar Liat.

Negative trace debate

(RE - Do rosord) and sopsaber. Acca cedaronce de apocopriato,

082e

2ó persons azd one fir Undod la Ebo coszont enclosseee, toccag bro coes

complotad on 19. It is empoctor Glos roeatre co the remainias 7 oill us

available shorily.

Indozmotion frosa Y 3/Oubae Oporationo Braack, peopesed in

responde to refocence, will be Evatledle acon and will bo inclacao ie tut

next zoners.

clipping and cowarding pertine er items from the locol prese.

nairectiseliza

Nt 48511

DocId: 32207090 Page 2

---

## Page 3

IrClAssrito

Authority 104-10013-103

BY _JM_ NARA. Date 2/5,05

Enclosure l

SUEJECT

Dean Adams INDREWS, JS.

1. RI - no record.

2.

Additional information follows:

a.

The New Orlans States-Itom of 2 March 1967 reported

that ANDREWS had sair tat he did not know whether Clay SHAW and

Clay BERTRAND were the same person.

b.

An article in

ice New Orleans Times Picayunc of 19.

April 1967 concerns e $107, 000 suit brought by Dean Adame ANDREWS,

Ix., against GARRISON, who had previously indicied ANDREWS foI

perjury. ANDREWS cinios that he has told GARRISON "that thero

Was no connection betwee: Clay SHAW and Clay EERTRAND".

48511

DocId: 32207090 Page 3

---

## Page 4

ГЕРКА

0E,4910 as

DECLASSIFIED

Authority I O4 - No 13-4031

By L NARA, Date 11.5/035

Enclosure a

SUBJECT

1.

Sergio ARCA DHA Smutth

Fi: as record.

No additione! infomination.

N# 48511

DocId: 32207090•

Page

---

## Page 5

DECLASSIFIED

Authority 104-100137031

BY RAINARA. Date 1/5/os

Enclosure 3

SUZJECT : Cuy BANGTER

1.

RI: GSCI-3764114, 30 March 1961, reported Subject as a

former FBI member, omace o. a detective agency in New Orleans, and a

member of Friendo of Demociatic Coba. Inc.

2.

• No new information. Subject is dead.

NN 48511

DocId: 32207090

Page 5

---

## Page 6

JFIED

426.

10200 HKP 2000

hul any 404 70013-10217

o. 24 T8RA And 2/4/05

SUBJECT :

Leslic Normin BRADLEY (<0l-727978)

Authopsy

By.

NARA, Date.

Enclosure

1.

Al: Az examinatio:: of BRADLET's 20l file shows him to be

a soldier of fortune and free-lace pilot who was arrested by the Cuban

C-? in Fiavana on 24 May 1960. Field on the Isle of Pines, BRADLEY

collaborated with his captors in ail r'enpecis. He lured the Nicaraguan

loader, Chester LACAYO, to Cube so that he could be arrested. BRADLEY

is an unscrepulous adventurer who will do anything for mnoncy. After his

reieaco and return to ine U.S, he approached the families of several men

still on the Tole of Pines with roquests for funds allegedly to be used to

liberate the prisoners. He wa: briefly considered loi employmnoni o0 &

co-pilot in Frojoct ZACLIFE and filiod out a personal information forin,

bat the offer of craploymont we: cancelled.

No turtler information from other sources.

Nd

40511 DocId: 32207090

Page

6

---

## Page 7

DECLASSIFIEE 1P

Authority Lev. h5013-10320

By our NARA, Date /5/65

Enclosure

SUBJECT:

EdwardS.

BI TIER

1.

?.

3.

See Paragraph 7.a, of reference.

RI traces in progeess:

No additionai infomostion to date.

. NH 48511

DocId: 32207090

Page

---

## Page 8

DECLASSIFIED

thority 10 4-10013:1032

12.411583

Enclosure 6

SUBJECT :

Carlos Jose DRINGUIER

RI: DBA-55777, 2: October 1963, lists BRINCUIER, irON

1/ 1934, 20 a businesoman, Cuber, living in New Orleans at 501 Adele Street,

'Apartment F, and as director if the Cuban Studeni Directorate for the

New Orleans area.

2. No additional infor nation to date.

NH 48511 DocId: 32207090

Page

8

---

## Page 9

&:0MET

Life jer

Authority /04-10013-Bi2l

By

__NARA, Date '/"/OS

Enclosure 7

SUBJECT:

Vernon DUN 27

1.

2.

RI - no cocond.

No furthes information.

GRET

NH 48511

DocId: 32207090

Page 9

---

## Page 10

DECLASSIFIED

Authority L04 20013-1027

SUBJECT

Julio or Jell a BURNEDO

1.

2..

Ri - no record.

No further information.

NW 48511

DocId: 32207090

Page

' 10

---

## Page 11

45237

& GUISE

DECLASSINIED

Autorny L 2015-320

Enclosuie 9

SUBJECT

David Willian PORRID

1.

2.

RI - no identifiabis races.

No additional eubstentive information. Subject is dead.

NH 48511 • Dooid: 32207090

Page 11

---

## Page 12

SOMET

DECLASSIFIED

4441001378325

Authority it a Jer 19

By )e NARA, Date 1/'y D.

Enclosure 10

SUBJECT

Alberio FOW:ER

1.

See Paragraph Tob. of zaicrence.

?..

RI traces in progre is.

3.

No further information.

NN 48511 DocId: 32207090 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SONE

DECLASSIFE PER 12

Authority.

70220032020

BY ARa NARA, Date 1/12/05

Enciosure il

SUBJECT :

Manuel CARCI Gonzalez

1.

2.

RI • 20 tracce.

No Eurthe: infoume ior.

NN 48511

DocId: 32207090

Page

13

---

## Page 14

Authority 1011-100 13•1030

54063

12.0

Enclosure 12

SUBJECT:

James CARE SON

1.

2.

reference:

RI: Tracing contie dog.

The dollowing additions! information has been obtained since

2.. .

Tho New Orlens Statos-Itom of 3 March 1967 stated that

New York radio stotion. Y 1:18 euid that it had icarned from reliable

sources that CARRISON Helieves that Fresident Kennedy was

Gorgona

assassinated by 'e group oi plotters dizecied from Cuba:". WINS

reporter Doug Décison s: 16 Unt the souzce has access to CARRISON's

files and that, according lo the files, "ofter an abortive CIA invasion

of Cuba, Castro put out in exacution order on the Fresidont."

A memoranduan ci! May 1967 by Mr. Sichard F.

Lanscale, Accociate Goar ral Coursel, advises that GARRISON

intonde to demaud that CiA Kurnich hima with the photograph of Covald

entering or oriting tho Musics City Embnagy.!'

C.

Jamos Pauler

is the author of the lead article in the

Suturday Eveolar Post of 6 licy 1967, headed A Plot to Kill Konnedy?

Rush to Judgerent in Now Orioons".

The following koy points chio ly

concera GARRISON:

(1)

Pholes now OARRISON in 1963, when he spent

tea dayo with ning

bonining material lor a laudatory piece

called, "Tho Vice 15an Comet.

(5)

GARRISON and Fhclan met in Las Vogas on 5 and

6 March 1967, and: Delan conducted ton hours of iniciviews.

GARRISON gave Plision a memorandum of an intervier cor

ducted with Peary 1 USSC by Andrew I. SCIAMERA, "a Ji-year-

old assistani D.A, ast a gear out of law school" who intorviewed

SUSSO Íoe three loure and took copious notes. GARRISON alsc

save Pholar a trancrint of whoi RUSSO said loui days later, on

1 March 1967, while under hypnosis. The SCIAMBRA repost

& BORET

NH 48511 DocId: 32207090 Page 14

---

## Page 15

Moder,

made no moation o: & plot Emong COWALD, EERRIE, and

SHAW to kill anyon:

Tac 2, 500-word report also made no

Icfarence to & port, at 228RDS's apartment. Il did not

contain a positivo ifcatification of Loc Harvey COWALD as

"Icon: OSWALD.

Slown a picture of Cisy SHAW, ROSSO bad

noi identifica him is BERTRAND''. The SCLAMORA ropori

specified thet RUSS O And soca SHAW only twice. It did not

say thet SHAW ino : OSWALD.

13)

On 27 2 abruary 1967, according to a second

SCRAMERA I0p024,

RoOSo was given sodiuna pentothal and

then did anole peaving refercaco to the party at which thio

plot wee discuoded, but mid de only after proropting by

SCIAMORA, Who wrote,

"Ithon askod him it he could remem

ber acy oã tho dote lo about Clay Bertrand being up in FDRRIE's

apartmont.:

(4) Two days later Dr. Esiond TATTER placed

RUSSO undor hypoccio (ee die so three times in ally.

when

RUSSO made no rcation of a party or plot, PATTER directed

him to see la pictuço as RERATie aportrent end these aic

several poople in fiona nd there io a while-baired roan.

Tell

ne about it." RUS3O coroplied but made no rention ot SHAW:

"BERTRAND'

, or : plot.

TATTER then ordered him to sec

this picture: "There will be bestiand, Forrie and Oswaid and

thoy are going to docuss a vory important matter and there le

anothes man and gi: thoro and tuey are telling about ancassina-

ting

sonsebody. Wrote at it and describe it to mc."

RUSSO

then told the story that he sabooquontly gave in testimony.

(5)

Pholan adviced. GArAISON of the profound differences

betweon the first STAMERA coport and the eventual RUSSO

tostimony. GARRISON permitted Pheian is question SCLAMBRA

'directly, in CARNIC's prosonce, SCIAMERA said that ho

muat bave forgotte? to includo the porty and its participents.

Wisen lolen eugsested connulting his original notes, SCIAMERA

said that he had boned sham, Phelan asked Dr. FATTER

where ho got tho information tood in questioning RUSSO uade:

typsosis, end 2ATTEã said it carne from CARRISON'e office.

SENDET

NH 48511 DocId: 32207090

Page 15

---

## Page 16

SE ACT

DECLASSIES ALL

Authority 104-10013203 L

By He NARA. Date 1/1/05

SUBJECT

Foscaal SON GORA

1.

2.

R1 - No record.

No further injorna ion:

NH 48511

DocId: 32207090

Page 16

---

## Page 17

DECLASSIFIED RAC

Authority 50/001515307

By On NARA, Date 1)"/05

мати від Bа2в ДрА До вн

Enclosure l4

SUBJECT

Nezin Bmallah GUN (201-097525)

RI: The 201, Usted bove, will be studied. GUN, born

22 February 1920 in Rome, is a saspected CF member who has been

involved in Durope in espiouage and faisitication of documents.

2. .

No oiher addicional information since reference.

NW 48511

DocId: 32207090

Page 17

---

## Page 18

DECLASSIFIED

Authority 204 1005/638;

By QUE NARA. Date 1/105

Enclosure 15

SUBJECT :

William GUS: ICH

1.

2.

RI - No record.

No additional information.

SEG ET

NH 48511

DocId: 32207090

Page 18

---

## Page 19

DECLASSIFIED

Autherity n

480: 15039000

By NARA, Date LIES

Enclosure 16

SUBJECT

S. M. KAURT ROTE

1. RI - No record.

2.:

No further information.

NH 48511

DocId: 32207090

Page

19

---

## Page 20

NONES

DECLASSIFIEDI AS

Authority 1041100 3-10131

BY g2 NARA, Date 15Je5

ni diningi

Inclosure 17

SUBJECT :

David f. LE IS

2.

RI. No record.

No further infozne ion.

NW 48511

Docid: 32207090

Page

20

---

## Page 21

DECLASSIFIED

Authority 102 00520103

6724173

Enclosure 13

SUBJECT

Layton Palsick MAN 70S

1.

RI - No. record.

No fuzthes infozardion.

' NH 48511

DocId: 32207090

Page

21

---

## Page 22

DECLASSIFIED

CIA NO TERMA

Authority 1P4-10013-10374

Enclosure 19

SUBJACT

Mics. Willie MichAINDG

(1/v Sandra I CODDI'T, cuclosure No. 18 of reference,

RI - No socord of condre MOREOTT. „Traces are being zum

o2 MirE. Willic MeMAiTES.

The New Yori: Dizas o6 27 April 1967 otated, "A feritive trom

justice compinint en filed agair si lire. Lillic Melaines «- Was dismissed

in Municipal Court Tuoadny dit is she refusna to leave lova do appear in

CHET

NN 48511 DocId: 32207090

Page 22

---

## Page 23

1714

DECLASSIFIED

Authority 2/22/0002-10335

NARA DEN 1/4/25]

Enclosure 20

SUBJECT:

Gordon Duco: NOVEL

i.

RI - No record.

The following addii. onal infonnation has been obtained since

the dato of zeference:

The New Oris ano Timos Picayune of 19 April 1967 etotes

thai Cordon Duana NOVI: (sog Enclosure 19 si reference), then living

in Columbus, Ohis, wed 'ne object of eatradition chargee signed

17 April 1967 by Acting Civorcor C.C. Aycock. The charges concern

concpiracy to buzglarice the munitione bunker at Houma, Louisiana,

in 1961. On 18 Apcil 1967 NO VIL Sloted in an article copyrighted by

the Daleo Dollz Mare, the: CARaTsoN 16 conducting his probe to

further bie political core t.

"The whole GARRISON investigation

thing is Action," NOVIL sided. "I inow the full story from working

as the prosecutor's socuity chioi," CARRISON, however, has said

that NOVEl never worite: for him. NOVEL added, "I think GARRI-

SON will expose some Cli oparations in Lovisiana.".

b.

The New Orde uns Gator-Iteza of 25 April 1967 states that

NOVDI. "has tolâ a nurb 2 of friendo and intimacos he was a CiA

operative and will une this role to bailie CARRISON'a charges ...

¡ be is returned to New Criçons to face accusations that he burglarined

an oil service company's munitions bunker in acarby Terressane

Parioh, " Stovon PLOTKi, allorndy for NOVEl, relusce to confirmi

0i deny his clionte state cents. Sergio ARCACHA Smith (ace 21.-

closure 2 of referanco) ii also accused by GARRISON oí helping to

plan the theft

of the muni ions. The article adds, "To friends and

associates, NOVIDI bas: aid that the munitions burglery was no

burglary at nil -- but a var materiais pickup made at the dizection

•of his CIA contact.". He ins desoribed the Hourna bunker as a CIA

cache for munitions seatinod for use in tho April 1961 invasion at tho

Boy of Pigs. NOVSu ha: cloimod that ho worked for CIA in New

Orleans before April 1961, "Port ot his job, he contones, wes to .

operate the Evergreon A: vertiging Agency ad a froat for CLA

communications.

With Drado fennoled to him by the CiA, NOYDI

NW 48511

DocId: 32207090

Page

23

---

## Page 24

says ho propared sponial radio conmercials used on 300 stations

in the U.S. and Canoda,

Thots cryptographie messages, he claims;

were to alcit agento to tie lavasion sate.

The commercials advers

Lised aluminun: Cluciotmas treco, he says, and the key aleri code

names were 'Star Obsistaso Trond' and 'Foliday Irces'. In Inte

1960, 972, 000 wouth of a dio time vas placed by the agency. On the

doy the meditions were t. to piched up, he says, he was called. by bis

CiA contact and toid to into e group which was ordered to transport

munitions from the bunkee to New Oileans. . .

He sayo he made

the trip in bis own cutonubile, a Lincoln; and met several people

there me all of thens allogodly coting for the CIA, He identifies

them as FARRIS, 4N0A:1, several Cubans, and another figuse in

the case. 'They londed le based of orduance on trucks, he coatinues,

and returned to Noir Orlenno where the ouplosives wore dropped in

three secto -- FERAla'e hotc, NOVal's office building, end the

office of.. • formor #E Ingent. . . Guy BANISTER (sce Enclosure

3 of scierence), NOVEL. claims the munitions were eventually talen

by boat to Cahe for a dim zaionary Day of Pigs operation. GARRICON,

howover, says the burglity cocured three months after the Say of

Pige. He adde that the i nama bunkor wos leased by the Schlumberges

Well Services Go. of Mot aton, Mosco. "Schlumberger officials say

tbey know nothing of day JIA oporations in connaction with their

magazine, wbers oil fiel i service equipment and cercain lov-yiela

exy losivos aze clorod, "

c.

An AP vice / lapaici of 26 April 1967 from New Orleans

ades,

"In Columbus, NO MOü snid today that the statements tini !

workod for the CiA are assolutcly incorrect. • • The events oi

1901, the Bay of Pigs inibion, ere none of anybody's businees,

including Me. CARRISO: '*.'"

3.

NI has 20 zecond o. the Dvorsreon Advertising Agency. There

is, however, a record of "Evo grece Enterprise, " listed as "cover 101

¡logal activities", The poutinen: documons will be obtainod and studios.

NH 48511

DocId: 32207090

Page 24

---

## Page 25

DECLASSIFIED

CIARUFIAEL

Authority 104-10213-10336

Enclosure 21

SUBJECT :: Carlos QUIRICA

!..

• 2.

3.

See para. 7c of rotarence.

Ri - tracas in proyacas.

No further infozan tion.

• NA 48511

DocId: 32207090

Page

25

---

## Page 26

SACHEt

DECLASSIFIED

Authority 104-100, 3-10337

(BAL NARA, Data1/16/0571

Enclosure 22

SUBICOT : Perry RUSSC

1.

z.

RI - no record.

Additional indormation appears in Enclosure 14, above.

Nt 48511

DocId: 32207090

Page

26.

---

## Page 27

SEGRET

1:F:

DECLASSIFIEDE ANP

Authority 10y-1k01340202

SY 2124 WARA. Oata 1111/05

Enclosure 23

SUBJECT : Emilio BANUANA

1 .

2.

See para. 7e of ruforemec.

NI - tracos nce li progzese.

No further indocuation:

S JORET

NH 48511 DocId:32207090

Page

27

---

## Page 28

DECLASSIFED

TER Ad-

Authority /04-10013: 7033%

BY ARE NARA. Date!/" /0.5

Enclosure 24

SUSJECT : The SCHLUME GROOR. Well Surveying

Corporation

1.

There are extensiv: CIA traces on this company and on

various persons connected wil it, but nons of this information is

pertinent to the GARRISON in restigstion.

A report of 20 April 1967 from the New Orleans office

of the ISi states that a confic antial source who is a representative

of a well-known news media said on 20 April that Gordon NOVEL

has reportodly states that he was employed by CiA and that the

Houma burglary was not an actual burglary. He contended that CIA

had an arrangement with the / CHLUMBERGER Co. (see below) to

keep ammunitica, bomb canigs, and other material in the bunker,

leased by SCHLUMBERGOR. No said that he and Sergio ARCACHA

Smith were still employed by CiA. "The source advised that accord-

ing to information developed in date Schlumberger became upset

over the Bay of Pigo invasion and vented to get out of their contract

with the CIA.. Arrangements were inade about three months after

the... invasion for the... maturial,. to be taken out by Novel and his

group."

The Domestic Contact Sorvice (DGS) informed CI/R&A

on 27 April 1967 that the Now Orleans office of the SCHLUMBERCER

Well Surveying Corporation i; a branci of the main office in Houston,

Texas. The company, however, is French-owned. The DCS office

in Now Orleans was in touch vith Charles a. DOH, district manager

of the New Orleans SCHLUME IRGDA office, in order to interview him

about a business trip to Romi in June 1955. There has been no subae-

quent contact. However, the D0S has been and still is in touch with

278-

HH 48511

DocId: 32207090 •Page 28

---

## Page 29

SEALZE

SCHILUMBERGER and Co, in leucion and subsidiary offices else-

where. The most recent of sch contacts occurrod on 22 March

1967 in Minzeapolis. All contici must be approved by the main

SCHLUMBERGER office. Bocause of French control, DOS dealings

with the firm have been circur tapect.

The Office of Security aleo advised on 27 April 1967 that

questioning oí four employees ot the Office of Logistics has shown

that the only arms bunker in tie New Orleans area used by ClA was

the Belle Chasse Ammunition Depot, a deactivated Navy installation

cight miles from New Orleane. There is no present reason to believe

that the Agency has beca ad0d diated in any way with the Houma Air

Base ounker.

NH 48511 DocId: 32207090

Page 29

---

## Page 30

.=

SE NST

SECLASSIEIED

Authority 204100770100

Enclosure 25

SUSIECT

: Glay L. SHAV :201-813493}

Surmary of RI fie ( Poodes in Enciosure 21 to

raference.

The New Orleans Slaten - Item of 2. March 1967

reported the arrest on 1 March of Ciry D. CRAW and his release

on bonri.

The article decerio: ¿ SRAW as "a decorated itIny

major in World War I...''

The New Orloana Eaten - More of 3 March 1967 said

that SHAW had coid that he ha? never noed the name Clay

BOSTRAND, at he had nover moc MARUDE, that he bad never

conopired to sosassinate the i rosidont, and that he had never

NN 48511 DocId: 32207090

Page

30

---

## Page 31

SECRET

CEAp 1876

Authority 2y-143

- 10013=10342

+1-2469000023875549077318

Enclosure 25

SUEJECT :

1.

2..

Coward Stowes SUCGS, alias

JackS. MAN: Dy

RI • no record.

No further intoriation.

NW 48511 DocId: 32207090

Pace

31

---

## Page 32

DECLASSIFIED AU

pir"

Authority L2410313-10344

BY SAM NARA, Date /11/05

Enclosure 27

3US BOT:

1.

Miguel Silva TORReS

PI - no soccEd.

No further informition.

NH 48511 DooId: 32207090

Page 32

---

## Page 33

032:

sme DECLASSIFIEDOS

Authority CHAARP 1996

+ 04-10013-10860

By far NARA. Date 4/19/05

Enclosure 28

It has been determined that the following components and

individual employees of CiA are currently based in New Orleans

or, as noted separataly, were there in late 1963.

New Orleans office of Domestic Contact Service:

Mr. Lloyd A. Fay.

Mi. Hunter Leake.

Miss Dorothy Brandao.

d. Mi. C.D. Geisinheimer.

Mias Gertrude Nagel.

(Miss Jeanne Fernances was also employed by

this office as of November

963, the time of the

assassination.

•Office of Personnel:

‹ Mr. William Wood, a recruiter stationod in -

Waco, Texas, covered the Jew Orleans arca in 1963.

3. • WH/6:

Mr. William Kent, pj esently in New Orleans

has as office cover the

1.. Office of security:

cover.

Mr. Chester Holling as Department of Defense ((M)

NW 48511 DocId: 32207090

Page 33

---

