# 180-10068-10331

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY

: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER

: 180-10068-10331

RECORD SERIES

: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 5

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

---

## Page 2

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER

• : 180-10068-10331

RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

DATE

: 08/15/77

PAGES

5

SUBJECTS :

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

DALY, MARTIN J.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 3

DALY, Martin

Nimo or Employce

, Address

Address

OFFICE OF THE CLERX

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

PERSONAL. LEAVE RECORD .

1975

YEAR

Phone Number

DATE OF APPOINTMENT

8-15-77

ANNUAL LEAVE •

CATEGORY

1.0

Position Titia

PRIOR FEDERAL SCRYICE

Pashion Number

Lever

5tcp

1,5

2,0

ACCRUED

THIS MONTK

THIS MOXT

MONTH

Month

DAY OF MONTH

120023202234

Annual.

Т5 GT7 18 10 20 21 23 23 21 23 20 27 23 207 30 311

Leave

Sick

Leave

Ancuat

Leave

Sick

Leave

Jan.

Feb.

Mar.

ALAA

Apr.

Nay

June

XX

July

1 0

AUG.

Scot.

Oct.

Nov.

Dec.

BALANCE BROUGHT

FORWARD FROM

PRECEDING YEAR

Annual

Sick

TIS ЛіОНИ

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

CALANCE

CLOSE

OF MONTH

Araual

Leave

Sick

Leave

EXPLOYLE

INITIALS

10

11

NON

0.5 day annual leavo

= 1.0 day annual leave

II

0.5 day sick leave

1.0 day sick Ieave

0,5 day administrative leave

= 1.0 day administralive Icavo

0.5 day unauthorized absence

1.0 day unauthorized absenco

0.5 day leave without pay

= 1.0 day leave without pay

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employed's Signatura

Dutc

(If employee reluses to sign, state reason blow.

Chiel's Signature

Date

Approved:

Clers of the Mouso

03!0

This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along

with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employce's official personnel folder.

ESHIBITT

---

## Page 4

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Martin

J.

Daly

Employee Social Security Number

132-14-2717

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

7/15/73

Effective Date

Type of Action

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Title Change

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

• Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business_.

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Specify Date

Gross Annual Salary* •

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. • Standing Committee: Staff—• Clerical or •] Professional.

2. [ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res._220_of -22_LCongress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_

If applicable, Level_

Step

relatives.

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

Date _

78

19

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS

ST

If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

ID

Benefits

Monthly Annuity $

Payroll.

00 as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

---

## Page 5

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Mar

8/15/77

132

14

Employee Social Security Number

2717

Type of Action

Employing Office or Committee

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

Ass

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Staf

nvestigator

Gross Annual Salary

$24,000.00

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff -• Clerical or [ Professional.

2. • Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res....

465

__of 25th

__Congress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_.

_If applicable, Level _

- Step_

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date-

., 19_.

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Cha

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees

under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

Monthly Annuity $

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

---

## Page 6

MEMORANDUM

TO:

FROM:

DATE:

RE :

ProfeSSOr G. Robert Blakey

CLiff Fenton C

August 15, 1977

Recommendation

for employment - Martin Daly

It is recommended that Martin J. Daly be

considered for immediate appointment to the

position of senior Investigator at a salary of

$24,000 per annum.

Having been a detective for

twelve (12) of his 20 years on the New York City

Police Department, his extensive experience in

the area of homicide investigation would be

extremely valuable to the Committee.

It is felt

that Mr. Daly would make a significant contri-

bution to the quality of our investigation.

APPROVED:

hoet

Kennet

Assistant Deputy Chief Counsel

8-15-77

---

## Page 7

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

Expenses at Committee tents sang ote of the committe of

monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of

each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification

i5 signed monthly by our Chairman.

certification:

The following are the relationships to be included in the

father

mother

Son

daughter

brother

sister

uncle

aunt

first cousin

nephew

niece

husband

wife

father-in-law

mother-in-law

son-in-law

daughter-in-law

brother-in-law

sister-in-law

Stepfather

stepmother

stepbrother

stepsister

half-brother

half-sister

Piease complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date

this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel

file.

If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget

Office immediately of the change.

X I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

/ I am related

current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

(Please specify.)

Manti. Daly.

Signature of Employee

8-15-17

Date

---

