# 180-10142-10242

## Page 1

180-10142-10242

Box 23

FOLDER 24

$ 30

his returnce ot

* CIA LOOM COB 112:5

October 24,

1978

Suret

Dearest Chris,

Funny you should have written me asking if I had ever heard

-- he has been

of interest to me in my work

for nearly a year -- so here is all you ever wanted to know

but were afraid to ask.

Manuel Ray Rivero was born in Cuba in 1924.

He has

been described as

softspoken, unassuming, almost humble --

a natural leader of the highest

intellect, deepest sincerity

2

and conviction.

In 1947, because of his outstanding performance

as a civil engiager, he was granted a scholarship by the Cuban

Ministry of Public Works to pursue graduate studies in engineering

at the University of Utah. Ray was in the United States for

*ANsArs but dinot complete his work for a Masters pegree.

When he returned to Cuba, he held various positions in the

engineering field, one of which was Project Mánager for the

construction of the Havana Hilton 'Hotel.'

= 10

In May 1957 he organized the Civic Resistance Movement,

which supervised sabotage and acts of terrorism against the

Batista regime.

Fidel Castro appointed him Minister of

Public works in february 1959 play broke with castro tae-

-cause of his formunist commections.culin November 1959, Ray

was at

techand relieved of his officiat position. He then

founded

the anti-Castro Movimento Revolucionari

del Pueblo

and

served as its Chief. Other individuals completing the

leadership of the MRP were: Raul

Chibas, Special Assistant

to Ray; Juan Esteves Ramires, Secretary; Ramon Barquin,

Military Intelligence Matters;

ane Rogelio Cisneros, Chief

of MRP in Cuba.

I NOT HI RODUCE

RETURN TO C 42-10242

---

## Page 2

CRITTEN

CAse officers:

):

In the Summer of 1960, while still in Cuba, Ray

was actively recruited by the CIA to become a member of the

- deTail

FRD.

His background was questioned by the State Department

i TAT Liny

and the Miami CIA office. Despite their objections, Ray

was granted Provisional Operational Approval by the CIA on

October 25, 1960 and, with the aid of the CIA, he was brought

clandestinely into the United States on November 10, 1960.

Ray's personnel papers at the CIA contain the following

assessment: "Subject has definite political action potential,

is a pro-democratic official

of

government who

is not in

sympathy with

aims of international Communism and is interested

in strengthening.

ties between Cuba and U.s."

Not everyone in the CIA who knew Ray) were in agreement

with this assessment. In a Memo for Record, dated 11/21/60,

it was reported that, "... Ray did not politically represent

anything to cheer about." Another CIA officer who met privately

with him in November 1960 stated that his political posture

was doubtful as far as U.S. Government acceptance was concerned.

CIA official

Still another/assessment of Ray stated that his action all

seemed directed toward making him the future power in Cuba

rather than overthrowing Castro.. It was believed that Ray

was so far "left" in his thinking that he would be as dangerous

(or more so in the long run) to U.S. interests as Castro, if

he ever got to be a power in Cuba.

Ray made his political position very clear during a

private meeting

with a CIA officer on November 15, 1960 - five

days after

his arrival in the U.S.

said that the MRP did

and

not wish to reinstate the 1940 Cuban/ Constitution/that the

---

## Page 3

Castro laws passed

at the beginning of his regime would be

continued. Ray further stated that he believed the State

should regulate private investments and/utilities should

be nationalized. Charges of

"Fidelismo without Fidel" were

made against Ray's group, the MRP,

because of these "leftist"

ideologies.

Negative information about Ray was also voiced by

as the Cuban exile community and came to the attention of the

CIA.

He was described by one exile as highly dangerous

because of his ambition to play a prominent role in the Cuban

government afterCastro's overthrow

Miro Cardona was opposed

to him on the grounds that his program was too Marxist and

further stated that Ray was bitterly anti-American as well

as probably totalitarian in his thinking. Manuel Artime

said the MRP was opposed to banning the Communist Party and

in favor of "nationalizing everything."

Although aware of his controversial political

→ philosophy, the CIA actively recruited Ray to join the FRD.

(, The White House and State Department pushed for his inclusion.

Ray received full/operational approval as a "political

asset" on February 7, 1961 and accepted

appointment to the

CRC in March. He himself had resisted joining the CRC be-

cause he felt

the members

were too restrained and he did not

quite

want to become a part of a situation in which someone else

was running the show

for the exiles. Within

a week after

agreeing to join, Ray met with a CIA officer and complained

i :

that Miro was backing away from his commitments and was not

willing to give Ray any voice in the Council. He recalled

---

## Page 4

the events of this period to HSCA investigators in 1978,

stating that certain influential and wealthy Americans,

among them William Pawley, opposed him and a lot of heavy

propaganda was circulated at this time accusing him of being

a Communist.

---

## Page 5

Dient

Carls terrast. JUPE Chip & Leport CC1A/100

Opo 1964

hat Te was of operational interest Is the CIA. (Skid

Versonalty Dele Represt 10 (ug 1964). $ 197z (Shichz-

Garerel 2rfo) Larraga evas

(resposible fou a great

deal parme o an enormor

a supply of ifflocres

in Miami 4 Baerto Rico. Jarraga reuigned from

JURE in Sept. 1964. (Phid Teeld Dup Report 7123/64).

CIA/DDO Zarraga-Fuld Dufo Report 9123/64)

---

## Page 6

Quent 1

(ANSHOT /1)

story

During this period, it har heen

alleged

that Bay was friendly with momhers

of the Puesto Recan group which platted D

assadiriate Preadent Tsumaw. (CAst doace

Nacumente, Depatch O Deputy Chief, WHISA from COS IIMWAVE,

4/14/64, Mpico, D.F. - Prom aw undercouer souce with

eryptonymo (AMSHOT/R.). Upow receyht of this infor.,

Rays Cace offices questioned the sebahility of the

information... HSCA receacher endeavored »

dintfy roucei was told (AMSHOTI) was atll

o Current aret n 1978) and a good

liend of

(hid). Of was fusther alleged that

Ray" was in frequent Contact with Puert Picars.

who were working on the rennsoation of the

White House.

Whil) The assassination attempt

8 Tres. Isumau occuried at Blai Saura, across

val sedence until suel time ao te

Tute Hause sentaratone was complete

disseminated 80 the secret Serice" (HSCA 008290)

and the FBI (H SCA 006468, Perms)

---

## Page 7

Her actual accop. accomplishn

croidly questioned wither the CiA. Within

the Wastern Hemisphere division, he was

asceed as notorious for claiming acert or

and his accomplichments towards the effort o

crettion Castro negligeble. (217/000 Ray VOLU,

Memo for Record, Tay 5, 1961, from Calven Heike,

Sulj: ManoloRay- Commepite on his Anti-Castro

Actiter) This easy access Is the White

Hauce and Stale Dept made come wither.

the agency heritant to support him ortride.

the umbiell a of the CRC for fear that he

would descue I

his arrangemente with

the CA aud, in a matte of time, the whole

Cubaw epile Com

unity would know where

Ray cras getting his support. (C17/000 Ray it 4,

Memo for Record, June, 2, 1961, (from

Subj: Relations with anolo Pay y the bIRP)

Fay continued to the of Clorely

ascociated. with the CIA. as evidenced tug

Contenco files on

hein from 1960 - 1946

indecating he was of seatorial luterer D

ten. No documentation is coculable o

Icial outlays doo the MRY, as

---

## Page 8

Aetution and

reinstate the 1940 l

Castro at the

«ll utilities, (CIA/DDO Ray VOL II, Cable I Durector from MASH)

Quest - He toll two anti-Castro Cuhous in

pril 1959 that he recognized the symptoms d

ommences ni the Castro regeme hut wa

not prepared I conopie against "Il Rider

Mapimo...

"(guie. 4o Chia Day-P.91) Bay was

relieved of his official portion in how. 91959

(HSCA 005990; p. 2, FBI Caretalion Study, Manolo Ray

file +57-4576, Sec.) hut Continied I permit

his nome I he acrociated with the Cartro

regime (Guie en this Day p.q2) until ths t

formed the Revolutionary Movement of the tecople (MEP).

around May 1960 (HSCA. 009005), thie anti-Castro

organization.heline@that the idea aud aime

if the democratic left hest suited the needs

7 aspirations of the Culaw people. (CiA/DDO Pay

VOP. I, a June 1962 study I program for bleations

of eula tubmitted hay. Ray Arcociated with

Ray in this underground organization were

Raul Cabar, Ramon. Barquin, Rogelió leneroe

(CIA/DDO. Ray UOL II, Organization MRP) Rufo Lopez

Gresquet and Ilife Pazor (que is This Duy, p92).

Ray was tritize criticized an a

tary acherant I the anti-Cartro movesent.

(quie us this Day p92) and Charges of "Didelin sir

Fidel" were made against him and the MRP becaure

of their leftect ideologies, (CIA/DDO Ray VOLII Contact

Report from Wallace Garlet), 10/7/60, Subji; Mating with

(Quan Eiterez." Jorge Berupt: 10/13/60.)

---

