# 180-10142-10030

## Page 1

180-10142-10030

v09-16-96ccr

JFK REC JRDS

Cross Reference: None

Status in System:

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER

180-10142-10030

RECORD SERIES

CLA

SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

22-13-02F

Other Agency Equity:

None

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM : CIA

TO .:

TITLE

DATE

00/00/00

PAGES

: 8

DOCUMENT TYPE

REPORT

SUBJECT (S)

; i ; AMMUG;

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

UNCLASSIFIED

3

CURRENT STATUS

POSTPONED IN PART

DATE

OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

08/07/95

Box 10

Date in: 01/26/96

TTFF

'FF F F

F F

F

F

F

F F F

NW 47055

DocId: 32271334. Page

---

## Page 2

BOX 22

F

13

ITEM

AMMUG /1

"Its Commite investigation of Luisa

Caldern.

7 de

of borment is in NAPA unclassified,

release folder.

2F

CIA CSI/HRO

NH 47055

DooId: 32271334

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CLA HAS NO OBJECTION TO C-

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS REDITE

i harport

nor in Jalder)

7 13

iltem 2 F

This Conmitte's investigationaf

ege o Luisa Calderon, a defec-

tor from the Cuban Intelligerce Services provided the

CIA with significant information about Lee Harvey Oswald's

contacts with the DGI in Mexico City. This defector

was assigned the CIA cryptonym AMMUG-] (A-1 hereinafter).*

• CIA files reveal that A-l defected from the DGI

on April 21, 1964 in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. When

he defected, A-l possessed a number of DGI documents which

were subsequently turned over to the CIA

IN 68894,

24 April 64) Following his defection, a

eIA officer,

Joseph l tangosch, went ef

to meet A-1, debrief

him,

and arrange for A-1's travel Into the United States.

_BID

$00 pupra cite.) On May 1, 1964, 22 reels of Langrosh'

debriefing of A-l were forwarded to the Chief of the CIA's

special Attairs Staff from the

CECIA DOC, DISPATE

Effective On May 1, A-j was under contract with

the CIA for operational purposes.

CIADOC

(Contract Approving Of

ficer memo, 6 May (4). By June 23, 1964, Langosch was

convinced that A'l would be of great value to the Agency:

He stated:

There is no question in my mind that AMMUG-I

#It is now known that A-I did provide significant leads

the CIA regarding Luisa Calderon. It is further apparent

that tittle of this intormation was made available by the

ca co the warren Commission. Therefore, the possibility

exists that A-l had provided other information to the CIA

that was relevant to the Warren Cormission's work but that which

was not properly reported to the Commission.

NH 47055 DocId: 32271334 Page 3

---

## Page 4

.2

is a bona fide defecter or that he has

furnished us with accurate and valuable

Information concerning Cuban intelligense

operations, staffers, and agents. (Langosch

memo to Director of Security, 23 June 1964)

As an officer of the IGI, A-1 from August of 1963

until his defection was assigned to the DGI's Illegal

which

Section B

IN 68894 24 April 64)-

This geetien

was responsibile for training agents for assignment in

Latin America. His specific responsibility pertained to

handling

of agent operaticns in El Salvador, (Personal

Record Questionnaire & June 1964l 'Apen 68894 28 April

64)

identificAtorshedA

A-1 Kney who were the Cuban intelligence officers

aasigned to Mexico City, In this retard he intlally

identified Alfredo Mirabal, Manuel Viga, and Rogelia Rodriguez

and the comfercial attache as DGI offigers posted at the

cuban embaesy in heatoe elty. compral tangosch described

A-l's knowledge of DGI. operations in Mexico as follows

In Mexico City, he knews who the intelligence

people are. One is tie Cuban Consul Alfredo

Mirabal.He is callei the Chief of the Centre:

That is his title but he is actually the

Intelligence chief, or at least he was until

the l6th of April at which time a replacement

was sent to Mexico to take over. This fellow's

name

1s Manuel Vega®

The source says that the

Commercial attache whese name is Ricardo Tapia

or Concepcion the is rot sure which is an

Intel"

ligence officer) and ¿nother one is Rogelio.

3 oF reel

75 Apr. 1964

ing of A to: 30 April 14

119.

NW 47055 DocId: 32271334 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

Thus, A-I was able to provide the CIA soon after

his defection with accurate information regarding DGI

operations and DGI employees in Mexico City.

The Committee has reviewed the CIA's files con-

• cerning A-1. This examination was undertaken to deter-

mine: ])whether A-1 had provided any valuable investiga-

tive leads to the CIA pertaining to the assassination

of President Kennedy; and 2) whether, if such leads were

provided, these leads and/or other significant informa-

tion was made available to the Warren Commission.

The Committee's intial review of the materials

provided by the CIA to the harren Commission did not

disclose the existence of

auristlecure enuG files. However, the

Committee did reviewra

nfide containing material passed

to the Rockefeller commission, That file method sen

ference to AMMUG-1. This ircluded a memorandum of May 5,

1964 written by Joseph Langesch which concerned informa-

tion 1-3 provided about the aja gee. (cHe Supra FOXA

Also contained witrin this file were the A-l de-

riefing memorandum of May 7,

cited with regard to Luisa (alderon. tette) Following

review of the memoranda, the Committee requested access

to all CIA files concerning& referring to A-1.

From review of these materials, the Committee has

determined that the Warren (omission

did learn during

mid-May 1964 that Lee Harves Oswald probably had come in

NW: 47055. Doeld 32271334, Page 5

---

## Page 6

Car 0904

contact with DGI officers in Mexico City.

a Prior to learning Of Sswala's probable contact

with DGI officers, James Angleton, Chief of the CIA's

Counter Intelligence Staff pissed an internal memorandom

to Raymond Rocca, also of the Counterintelligence Stat,

which

stated

Angleton wrote in the memora dum that he had been informed

by the DDP, Richard Helms, tiat J. Lee Rankin had contacted

John McCone to request that the Director consent to an

betesto

intervieway the Warren Commission on May 14, 1964. (J.

Edgar Hoover also appeared bafore the commiagion on that

date pedox to Mccone"s appearance angreton also wrote:

I discussed with Mr. Helms the nature of the

Western Hem:

recent information which you are processing

which originated with the sensitive white wit - t

House source.

I informed him that in your

view this would raise a number of new factors

should

with the commission, that it should not go to

de.

the Commission prior to the Director's appear-

ance unless we have first had some preliminary

datined

reaction or made sure that the Director is fully

aware of the inplications since it could well

serve as the basis for detailed questioning.

The DDr stated that he would review this care-

question on timing send James Ange

question of timing:

L2 May Ibed

1964, FOIA 689-298)

Undoubtedly the White House

source referred to

in Angleton's memo suf A-1. Ih conclusion is based in

part upor the date of this nemo whichiy quite close in

time to A-l's defection.

Is addition, on May-11, 1964,

Direetor Motone did appear tefore the Warren Commission.

At Angleton's request, Rocca's staff prepared a Brief

piror to Des Micro appenine before the ise.

NE 47059 D0cT0-32271384. Page 6 :

---

## Page 7

for Presentation to the Warren Comnission outlining various

positions adopted by the CIA vis a vis its investigative

CIMPR F01A695-5221

efforts and assistance to the Commission. (Brief, Hey 146a i96)

1965, FOTA 699-302AD

this

. At Tab E of Metone's brief it states:

Within the past week, significant information

has been developed by tie CIA regarding the re-

lationship with Oswald «f certain Cuban intel-

ligence personnel in Mesico City and the reac-

tion in Havana within the Cuban Intelligence

Service to the news of the assassination of

President Kennedy•

The Commission Staft is in

the course of being briefed on the Cuban as-

pect. (cita cupca May I, 1964 POZA 699-302A( I bid, Tah E]

the significant information referred to therein is

the information A-1 provided To coctor

on May 15, 1964, the day of the Milone's Interview,

the Warren Commission received its first formal communica-

ICiADAFo: A 697294,15M941864}

tion regarding A-1. However, the Agendy did not at that

time identify A-l by his real name or cryptonym nor did

the Agency indicate that the source of this information

was a defector then residing under secure conditions in

the Washington, D.C. area.

SEekid 15 zotter trom Helms

to Rankin POtt. The May 15 communication did state that

the Agency had established contact

with a well-placed individual who has been

in close and prolonged contact with ranking

officers of the Cuban Direcion General de

Intelligencia." fitet f: Ibid3

attached to the May 15 communication was a copy of

Langosch's above referenced memorandum of May 5, 1964 re-

NIN

47055

---

## Page 8

garding All's knowledge of Oswald's probable contact with

the DGI in Mexico City. feite above.) The attachment

made no reference to the souce's status as a defector

As set forth in the section of thes report concerning

Luisa Calderon, on June 18, 1'64, Howard Willens of the

Warren Cormission reviewed Lingosch's May 5 memo and

the questions upon which the information

set forth in the

memo was elicited. Neither the questions

^Ehe memo shown

•to Willens made reference to the source's status as a de-

fector collaborating with thr CIA. feite Arthur Dootey

CHA DOE

5, 19 June 1964, (ROLA 139-319) Sy How inpateles?

- his recle;?

Based upon review of the langosch memoranda, the Con-

mittee has determined the mificant intonation are nega

Lantern estates tinct

ing luisa Calderon was withhold from the warren Commission fo.

lite caldetor sottont. This information'was derived

as dectanted are Lane

from c debriefings of Al. loute ayond le langosoh

'thi's

dano From the Conmittee's review of the A-i file pro-

cosenes

vided by the CIA, the commit ed has not found any eredible previs:

evidence indicating that other information provided by A-z Ani

to the CIA was relevant to tie work of the Warren Commission.

However, in its review the Committee has determined that

specific documents referenced in the A-l file le not present

w/hei

in that file.

missing iten-of considerable concern to the committee

NH6d7055

DocId: 32

$334.

¿Page' 8 :

---

## Page 9

Hos

CiA

been

This

is a debriefing report of A-. entitled "The Oswald Case."

CHA DOL

(Dispatc

$035, 23 March 1965) On March 23, 1965, a

CIA dispatch records the transmittal of the report, along

with eleven other A-l debrie ing reports. (sT 5uPa:)

Next to the listing of the "")swald Case" debriefing report

is the handwritten ritation "sI." A CIA employee who has

worked extensively with the gency files system told a Commutte

startnerboat

warthasymbo/fa=

this notation t stand fex the CIA component Special In-

I telligence. Other

CIA representatives bedteved, the gotd

tian ta stand for the ciA corponent seesiet Intelligende.

Other CIA representatives be jeved the notation was a re-

ference to the Counterintell: gence component CI/SIG.

In

a CIA memorandum dated _

it ets stated :

) Quote Barbara's memo.

to

issie.?

The agency has been unable to locate this document

and therefore the Committee cannot pass judgement upon the

substance of the missing maturials.

The Conmittee has querind A-l's case officers regarding

additional information that i-l may have supplied rabouty

Oswald. Joseph Lanogsch whell interviewed by the Committee

stated that (HSCA staff inte: view, Joseph Langosch,. August

2-e 1978) he did not have contact with the Warren Commission

and does not know what irfonation derived from A-l's de-

briefings was supplied to th Warren Commission.

(cite also

Hidalgo and Piccolo.) He also stated that he does not

INTENTENS

NW 47055 DocId: 32271334 Page 9.

---

## Page 10

8

coal that proud any ot to into do a i o unt

AWKERID?

In a further effort to carify the substance of Informa-

tion that alte provided to the CIA regarding Oswald, the

comnittee has attempted to lorate

chility have supplied the cia about ear

CA'S

A BaC dA the basis of.

the wr

excep

epis

igutficance:# A broader question remains

however. The Agency, as noted earlier, did not reveal to

the Warren Commission that Aj was present in the Washington,

D.C. area and, under controlles. conditions accessible to the

Commission.. " Fron

confidering the CIA's serious concerr

for protecting its sources, t

the fact that A-l's status was

not disclosed foreclosed the Varren Commission from exercising

a possible option. i.e. to tale. the sworn testimony of A-1

as it concerned Oswald and the Kennedy assassination. On

his lase, as the witten recold teres taste, the agency

un laterally rooted thepashing

option.'

"It chould not

The erA did not fatt, her's case, the

i Com lit

Masavio

NW • 47055

sociatly In light of the establishment of A-I's bone fidas

(Cite Langosch's quote supira, his proven rellabitity and

DoeId: 322

---

