# 180-10145-10239

## Page 1

180-10145-10239

Box 54

FY.

#10

SURELL BRADY

3/7/78

VLADIMIROWICH

LOSTIKOY, VALER THIS COPY IS NOT

201-305052

3 VOLS.

FOR RELEASE./

11110762

Vo1 1-1959-1962

Gone type of pose sero on intercep]

15 Oct 1962

MO asps NEFVEDOr for either SaenAshEr

or kostikov. Neither f them is in. NEE

asks who is spearing. VSEMOCHKIN/ph.f. Mc

says that NEF doesn't frow him. "He are

passing through Mexico. NEF tus MO tO

Told the uve. Even takes phone. Morepent

His mane-VSEMOCHkIN. Mo soup tat kost

kov promised to core over. Kost kor takes

pose. No cops kost y he wile conse are

get "us", Kst doesn't tave ar auto avail

able right now, Kest says that everything,

opens at 1000. Mo saup we wile be

waiting for KoSt./ apparently no ard

outer are going to Habara,! Mo asks y

KOSt could get 500 dollars that "we"

have opert of the trip. Kost will see about

it..

DOB 3/17/33 MUSCOW.

EMPLOYEE, SON. EMB., MEXICO CITE, DOI JUNE 1961

180-10145-10239

---

## Page 2

KOSTIKON

VOL. II JAN. 13-BEC.LY

11110763

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSSREFERENCE

15 SEP 64 FBI

"He file of this than do not corte, any

Io to fully support staterst in par fire

if your proposed draft to effect that suby.

belved to work for Dept sister of this

Chie Mirictorate of Com for State Secu

rity $ KEB/

LASiFIED MESSAGE

+. DEL 1963

coperage o Kast or ard liferie the

30 70r indicate no particular deiration

I eir rode activitie, no trave out

ode srot."

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

23 Nor 1943

at 1250 hrs or 22 For Cubar Consul

afredo meatal Diaz asper to spear /

suspect KGB Pavil Antonovice yatsfor.

fatter apparently travailable ard

---

## Page 3

- SEGRE

1111076-1

Koscifer care or live wire foll co.

Ros: forgive se for ariving late

his: Dis you recover the suitcase?

Kos: ye

her: Ter it was assiving of the

oder trip?

Kas: yes

hir: l called to all you the fol

loving, Hatregarding that matter that

we had talked about, to the 'I we

would sped furday in Chapultepec

Park be cause my life is preparing

some food to eat re.

Has; I' sony but i've just made

plans for arotter thip and disharing

this very day. So please forgice he for

not being obe to go whet you, Cat this

point tast for in essor cordressed

mirabe as agone, and This covere

his...

hecks her you acready talked of

mir: i'd like to talk up loved yut

spor

Kas: Wait a minite, he'is corre now,

Then! If tes busy d'll call henr

later, fue d'he be acritable for the mayt

---

## Page 4

11110765

Kay tour at Jel 70, 1l 28 47

Ros" OR

---

## Page 5

- SECRET

4/13/78

111.10:65

aspatch

19/5/63

to: Chief, wa suition

thor: Chie oftation, tresco City

0sun1s

subgic checked in Hote Rosset,

¡verida tourgentes 281, Trexico D.F.

at 1600 hrs: or 1/25/63, Roor 203

or 11/27/43 at 2100 hours cuparted for

Havara Cabara Highe #465 as

ory passenger y chee a rive

used u.s. passport 4310162 whit

contained a cubar Courtesy r

SECRET

---

## Page 6

Jopes

4/13/78

censsified message

3/20/64

11110767

Fidenal gudicial Polici, irformed fade

too one o his cortaces reported in

late demean that Filterto Lopes,

4. 5: Citizer, was rolex in tresi.

dent Ferredy's assassiration

---

## Page 7

ropeg

4/13/78

FBl reno 105-126109

11110763

3/31/64

Judgie reporter by sources to have

atarded gatterings pEPC in private

rendercis dampa, 2ea.. 11/20/63 ard

departure for Cuba.

oftared that. tourist cand at toro.

mary conoulate ghettes is tampa

"/20/63, ertered trex, ly private auto

i/23/43 ard depanted tens liy er

oute to Haraja 11/27/63

U. 5. State Papc... dorains no record a

subject apolyin for or deir grantia

persistion for taver to Cuba.

punter dese:

prometers rose, tigh triage

Jamper FPCC net"/ t4d/103 at tore g

mary twist to stow color swore

taper in Cuba

Lopez iderpuid by plots, as tavig beer

presert at the meeting.

---

## Page 8

SEUMEN

11110763

tristira aros, Claricater, Ja, aloo

had fACe reatings at her torpe

husbard Have amon tad beer

Ays 19.63 they moved to Jampa

Cristiri anor aroused at 12/8/63

meeting that Jopy too anere

safely it Cuba

carried courtegy lubar visa

Jopy took so tis destiration cos

mexico, valed for 15 day

Louis tieze, tampa are are truere do;

205 East tyler Se., Laszon placer

ad for EPCC in Jampa, Libere or 5/1516

Janpa falc dud not exist at that ture

"Organized 1/9/61

---

## Page 9

4/13/78

11110770

burto Poticarpo Jopez

FBI report 8/26/64

Fic 20: 105-126109

registered for detective ferrie at te,

hest, 11a. 1/29/60 are Classifica 4-F

423/02 due to larguage baruci;

under redicación for gravo val epi

erraired i. U.s. about a year and the

atarred to Cuba because p foresee

res

astersed

volved in pro castro actiorty in u.5.

sorr 1/26/40 is Howara

U.s. passport #310162

lived wies use Rave Rodriguez.

1124 Seriary street

employed ar our Bakery in Key the

dese. 57, 126 is, drows hair, greer

eyes, ruddy complexion

broiters :

Secto serves o Cedar micia

---

## Page 10

- SEGILT

11110771

Afe. Key best in lace 1963 to go to Japa

to atrempt torturo to cuba

tad returred to 4. 5:1960 a 1961

because he was afraid being ted

into the Cubar initicia

wed to bearch ardrea fear on

8/1162 before a botany Public in Key

wife tea at Porter face Housing hoic

is 19c4 employed at herers, tse, Key.

hest

wife slated suby did not tave pure

to travel to bret to and luva; te

ably in the Jane area

suby: tad apparently too no pros

ristory pepile pay before coring to the

4.5.

treatid ly Or.

D. Malgrat, 3207

---

## Page 11

11110772

Hagles Qvenen, Key trot

ard o tering pertonetter, recrosuges,

---

## Page 12

SEGRET

cassfuid ressage

Date: 11 gue 60

uto

15-20

tow:

4/13/78

11110÷73

". Juby re wen krowr tolFo and pre-

crously

contacted (duard D.]

2. Appreciate the offer feet at present

Batter on leave therefore defer to

Hp for full debriefing

SIGNET

5mc

---

## Page 13

methicas

4/13/78

DDO

LonE

11110773

3 Fray1977

Henso for: Chief, tfs and pridey toff

tor: Charles a. Bugg

Do fo teren oppres

suf: Brigade pooretican

A.. Request no. p-76-1861

B. 05 Ryersal dated 1 Dee1976

5. He joecowing docurest sould be

referred to the appropriate Yout.

agencies and comporents as idicated

(Jab D).

10c #125

FBI. Report or

In dept 196t, which vertions outgice!

this reproductor is sot very legible.

He asp the fil to deny the rellase?

his Report as ale the info containes

trees is for the ClA and trevies

ecc.. Aral based of Privacy

act exemptions 6j 1(6,9) ard (K) (1)

7. i Directorate also las turo.

peD tellin enformation Report

---

## Page 14

4/13/78

SECRET

11110:74

fice 64102798 (old file C70300)

clusive pace: Tray 58 tire OCt 76

cussfied tressage

7 для 60

20-20

in e0s Cire (B20179956

Redskin

Riscilia gohnsor, age 32, you forg

board, for past two yars employee

Ports american hewspaper aliasie

hoscow, now unemploya becausef

Soviet refusal. to renew isa, scop

oing Bad Godesting a July for

several days, passibly week, or wan

back to united States. Purpose o Bad

Hodesteng visit is to discies her

Jesture witt id factermayer, born

corresponder of Hall tree goral.

who old acquaintance, Marlene R..

weston, who acquairted w/eter

doubtless hp url doubtless wist

yes, wit see gohnsor. Actre trist

debrief. ter upor reture to fates,

exctage rein eating is Bad Took

AAC

---

## Page 15

beng if desired

11110775

---

## Page 16

SECRET

7713/78

DDO

Report 70. 00-3-3.239,496

Date Diser. 190c.112

country: U55R

11110776

Racet Rate facg.

fulge it Reporad attempt on thusher

.""

Or l septenter 1962, while visiting

Tacon, a talked wirth a foret there

who is a free cance jaratise.

-STORET

---

## Page 17

4/13/78

DDO

Report no.: 00-3-3,239,848

Date fiser:: 24 Oct: 62

courty: USSR

Date 9e570: aug-sept.

Date and Place of acg.

aug.-tep. 62

11110777

Belgiet: Stanges in Cultural Apaci

arty official Patronige thier

---

## Page 18

11110773

Of which the sulgice was the source

DOD wie sot relas to reports

a te mail. However, y fugeet

wrote to see ther, we wile allow tes

to recris them, or sortized your,

in the predercep an agesey officer

SECRET.

---

## Page 19

DDO

SECRET

11110780

13 DU 1977

herofor: Chiy, tops and Pruney Staff (U)

Son: Robert E Over (U.)

espo Rurew Offices

Reference

(0) afar concierig the concer

expressed by hir. Zebile in Reference D,

we agree that all references to passble

contact stouto be deria ter. Ricos.

ingly, ic the further saintiped the

jowow dacurents to reflect this

targe:... 63,64, 75,76,77,78, 79,80, 81,82,

$3,84,85,86,88,89, are 90. Resanitized

it is dare foe dier

into si proper places in

He letter and in the 19s toldrack

package...

SECRET

---

## Page 20

500

SEGRET

Cosafied ressagi.

Date: 3 Tray 58

30: Kn

ector

From

11110781

1. Subj reports tes receives four.

morts tourise foviet via ar pan

depart. with next two. wors. upos

arrivai toscow wu explore job posse

tass opportunities. Hans take

boat ta be ga..

2. but. has agreed ' Entassy driefing

prior departure. Expressed wring

ress do utat could during time

moscow, batter not pursued sure

subpect not yet cleared.

3. suby tas sor fiers whom wit

corcace upor arrival, all from ii-

alecual ard artistic cities.

Belive ofter careful briefing

Woo letter mailing

---

## Page 21

11110:82

SHINSONE PRISCILLA

200102798

airew 9201 tile or UiS. Citizens 3 gar. 75

car nose accurately be categorizid as.

www.g collabora.cor.

---

## Page 22

4/7/78

0.9

111107₴3

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF INVESTISATIVE.. ANTIDIU

TO: CIL OPERITTONAL APPROVAL ADO SUPPORT DIVISION

SEC: SUPPORT DIVISION/ OFFICE OF SEC.

251x1 1962

RECIFIC AREA OF USE

FULL DETAILS OF USE

SEGRET.

RIT

---

## Page 23

-SECRET

4/17/78

0.s.

11110787

THIRD AGENCY DOCS:

O FBI REPORT DATED 24 JAN 56

@ STATE CABLE FROM. MOSCON TO GEL OF SATE

DATED 22 JUNE 1960

coNTRa # 16476

EMBT EL 3,54

SECRET

---

## Page 24

SECRET

9/17618

o s

NDICES

11110785

1D NY TiMES... 20 MA 64... QUALD, LEE A

10 MEMO DATEO 15 FEB 1962 IN FILE E WALROD,

GEORGER.

#WINTERS, CEORGE P., JR.- 16 DEC. 1960

MENOTO CHICI/ERS

#90079

2/25/57

JOHIUSON, PRISCILLA

HOTEL METROPOLE

'*MENO FOR CI STAFF 10/30/58 - 1.6

-SEGRET

---

## Page 25

SEGRET

CHIEF SRS

11110786

25 NR1967

M.D. STRENG

SVETLANA STALINA

#505112

The ThEN PRISeLA JONNSON WAS Of INTERES

IN ThE O4M4D CAGE, IN THE SHE MET WO AND

INTERVIENED HIM IN MONOW sOON AfTER WIS

ApRIAL THERE AND REMILIATION UF NIS U.5.

CITIZENSHIP. AFTER THE ASSASSINATION SIE UROTE

A NURER OF ARTICLES ABOT MM.

TE INDIN DUAL WO APPEARE TU BE MASTERMINDING

SALIMAS VISIT TO THI COUNTRY AND THE PUSLICA-

TOI OF NER BOOK IS GEORGE F. KENNEN, # 31853

(0+C), FORMER US AMBASSADER TO THE SON. UNIDIN.

IT WAS. NO NO RECOMENDES PRISELA JONNSON

MCMILLAN TO HARPER ANO ROU AS QUE OF FIVE

RUSSIAN SPEAKINCO EXPERTS, MR. KENNEN SEENSTO

B0 ACTING IN CONCERT WTH EDWARD S, GREEN-

BAUM, WHO BECAME STALINES PERSONAL LOUNSEL

AFTER VISITING NER IN SWITZERLAND.

SEGRET

---

## Page 26

-SECRET

4/12/2

0. 51

11110787

LAPPEARS TO BE LNO ADDRESS BODE TRACES]

(8) PAGE 6I LPAGE 22 OF REPORT)

JOUNGON-MOSCOw

JONNSON'S ON FILE HAG BEEN REVIEWED 34

Of a IN REGARD tO THE OWNS

MATTER.

SECRET

---

## Page 27

SECRET

11110783

8 APRIL 1964

MEMO FOR THE RECORD

ADDRESS BOOK

FBI RPT 12/31/63

Reference is made to prevais remorand

concernig ten fourd in suit's

doves took. the folowing additiona

po was noted from the frie fos:

Exiparate paged:

sero to file

#3u Darnar, hansi (Farcy)

Otkrets (oper grom) 11.2.71

...Brographic Register... nancy dan.

ver, an explayer fthe the apo, was

four 8 hay1919 in lirais, the ta

Her assigred to several paste on the

to last and is curtestly in hand.

$37 Oglosson, Vi your

#284217

#401 625 B3

• SEGRET

---

## Page 28

SECRET

11110783

Bore 10 8e0r1907 in Wash. p.C.

1934-39: teaching t research is Europe,

contributed articles to Daily Worker

1941-47 goboor and to wife were

connected. us cited agangali

close associates reported as renters

gee Camm. Party as Comme, sympäthiger

auged that wife was mender

1943-46: goner was Chie, Russia

Piticai deccar, us trilitary stell

gence

1947-1955: Carrgie stitute feet.

19525: Unvers f Pilotugs

1966-67:rsearehin U55R

3, Poland,

yet, go under Dept. State sponsor.

ships

1220r 1953: disapproved for any unc

My clA

Man 1967: was of tress to Des tur

should be approacted wit extreme.

cautior ard nor te exposed. to cl

#39 Pators, U....

Perdora nor. grata 5A

so record

- SEGRET

---

## Page 29

-SECRET

11110790

$40 DeleRot, Ri Perisor or grat

(Jacob, R.).

Rectaná Cigacot, $201.610. was tor

24 2ay 1936 in altora, Pa.

' énorge front 1960-69

He was pinis. das a result f the PerRor.

shy case Clearesce was issued for him

in new your city.

SECRET

RIF

---

## Page 30

SECRET

ILE KEVIEN

4/17/78

AU NE MOSBY

11110791

05

THIRD AGENE MATERIALS

O FBI MEMO DTD 4 NOU 1964 RE SAMMY-ESPIONAGE-

RUSSIA

DEPT. STATE MEMO OTO 8 AUG 1967 RE CONERSATION

Wl. ALINE MOGBY

(3

FBI RET DED 4 AUG 1964 RE ISAAC HENRY SHAPIRO,

LUDMILA SHAPIDO

9 EXTRACE FROM FOR, SUCG DISPATCH # 392 FROM

AEMB MOSCON TO WASH DÃO 12 DEL 1960, SUBU:

WESTERN CORRESP.'S IN MOSCON

15) EXTRACE FROM BI DTO SEPT 1958

2, 7, 10,23,30 OCT. 1958

SEGRET

---

## Page 31

SEGRET

116757

4/17/78

11110792

МОзВИ, ALlINE

MISS

N RECOGNIZED NAME AS CORRESPONDENT UNO WAS

LCOUTROMIGED - NEUS ARTICLE, EVEN PNOTO - DONE 34

DIRECTORATE III, DEPT 1O, SECION WORKING ON ALL

CORESPONDENTS U HEARO QUI SNE WAS ISOMPENISED

D'S NOT COUPROMISE HERSELF - KGB RAN OP

I: ACCREDITED FOR NIXON USGRTRIP. JULY-AUO 59

STAMP "RECOROS. OS/SRS MAN OR MAY NOT

CONTAN ADDITIONAL INFERMATION.

BRUCEL, SOUIE."

-SEGRET

---

## Page 32

-SECRET

4/17/78

os

11110793

MOSBY, ALlIE

OR 72

€402610-C

/D MEM. 03 APR 72 SHAPIRO, HENRY

IN MOSBY, ALINI

/ A MOSBY EILEEN

OR E412610-C

/D FBI. 04 AUG 68 PL SHAPIRO, ISRAC H

-SECRET

---

## Page 33

-SECRET

MOSBY

4/17/78

0.5

11110:94

MENO

FO: ACTING CHIEF, FIOB/ SEC. RESEARCH STAFF I MARG

"FROM: E MENDOZA

SUBJ: ALINE MOSBY

#172 252 C

A -119

BACKGRaND

BORN 27 NiT 1922 AT MISSOULA MONTANA

B.A. DEOREE FRON UNIU. MONTANA 1943

ENROTE UPI IN 1943 IN SEATTLE OFFICE

TRANSFERRED TO IVOLLYWDOD

•ALLEGEOLY: FIRED BY UDI FOR LENING INFO TO

"COUFIDENTIAL" MUGAZINE

BECAME AFILIATES WITH NANA. DRING

19505 AND IN 1958 WAS KNOWN TO BE

RESDING IN BRUSSELS

SUBSERUENTLY RENIRED EM UPI: MUSCOW 1958-

1961 ON STUDE OU IENRY SHAPIRO!

SINCE 16I WORKED IN BONN.

RETUREN TRIP

TO MOSCOW DURING 1964

NUTATION: (HANDURITTEN

27 SET 73

CURRENT INTEREST CLOSED

BRUCE SOLI

SECRET

---

## Page 34

SEGRET

11110795

AGENCY INTEREST

.. NO CLEARANCE REPUÉSTS....

• COVERT INOSTI=

CATION WAS CONDUCTED IN 1958 AT REQUES OF

SRDIVISION

.............. ...... .....

SECRET

---

## Page 35

SECRET

4/19/18

0 Sa

111.10798

SI MAR 6

TP. CHIEF, RESEARCH BRANCIN/ SRS

FROM: M.D. STEVENS

SUBS : UNO CASE

CADARIS BOUK).

PAGE 45: C5 ADDRESS BOOK

20575.S1421 PoU.

MINSK

HOUSE NO.4

4, АРт. 24

UL. KALININA

NOTATION: USWALD'S RET.

AND ON LTRTO JOHN

TOWER, SEN. - TEXAS 1962

E. MENDOZA

NOME ALSO APPEARS AS "COUCADE SENCAPON 20525

OU STRiP OF PAPER IN OSWALD'S WALLET UNEN 'UTER

VIEWED BM. MARTELLO.

SECRET

•: SECURIT INDICES

ULT. COL. NIKOLA GEORGITEVICH SHARAPON

RIS. CAREER DFFILER:.. DUDTME, CHEKIGT WI

INTERROGATION EXP.

: 1942 CHIEF DE SUALL COUNTER-ESP SECTION

IN GECOND DIR. OF NKUD

1942 FELD RANK DE CART. AND AS 0F SOME

TIME AFTER FEB 1951 WAS CHISE OF A SECTION

IN SEVENTH CNIEF DIRECTORATE MUD.

LAS A SOIN ABOUT OSMANDS AGE

... CIA INFORUSTION RPT 24 FEB 1955 TITLES

"ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIOUS AND PERSONALITIES OF

TEE INKGB:

WAS LISTED AS INE SUB- SECTIOIN

---

## Page 36

• SECRET-

11110797

CHISE OF THE SURVEILLANCE SECTION (NN) OF

TNE INDEPENDENT SECTONS OF TME NKGB (X

DIRECTORITE?)

(2) E4 BELITSKIT IDENTIFIED PI. SHARAPON

AS ONE THE DIRECTUR VE ALL RUSSIAN. TEXT! E

SINDICATEIN NEW PURE CITY; STINDICATE WAS

CONTROLLEO BY SOVIET CAT.

(3) LT. GEN: ANDREI RODIOUOVICN SHARAPON UF

SOVIET MILITARY STAGE COUNTER AT UNITED

NATIONS MES INVOLES IN SOU. ESPIONAGE CINFO

PROVIDED TO FBI IN 1948

TOOK OVER DUTIES EE NED OF 1ST DEPT OF SOU.

INTELLiGENCE NU US BEFORE JUNE 1948

SEGRET

---

## Page 37

10500

SEGRET

11110793

PIONE NUMBERS AS OF: 8/15/60

72- 66-81

12-43-04

UN MOSBY NOTETO ALEX PARKER)

M04B4 INDICEL

DOLBERG, ALEX

SMITH, FITZGERALD.

WINTERS, GEORGE P. UR.

BELITSKY, BORIS

SITAPIRO, HENRY

6/22159

19/14/60

9/5/58

8/4/64

INTERVIEN ZZiON 62 W/ GERGE MINTERS

a.a.. !

SUBUELT (HINTERS) STATED TIRAT ANOTIVER NEUSPAPER

NOLAU IN MOCCOL MA PRISCILLA VOMINSON •

OTTION; VOLTNEON ALGO CAME IN CONTARE WITH

-SECRET

---

## Page 38

-SECRET

11110:93

ARACIAMBUT

SUBS: BELITSKIY, SORIS YEFIMOVICE $125069 - 550

MOSBY, ALINE #172252

ACCORDINE TO GEVERAL SORCES BORIS 1. BELITSIM

I'S AN ASSOCIATE OF ALINE MOSBY, LONOSE SALE

APPEARED IN OSWALD'S. ADDRESS BOOK.

1. PRISCILLA JOUNGON, 1 0L, SNE HAS BEEN

MENTIONES IN NENSPAPER ARTICLES 1S ONE WHO

RECALLED HAVING COUSIN CONTACT LITE LEE

LARES USMANO IN MOSCOU, UNERE SNE INTER-

VIENGO (OR TALKEO) WITH NUM. NER INAME, LIKE

INER LAST NAME ONLY.

SEGRET

---

## Page 39

6/30/78

-CONFIDENTIAL

ANGLETON

OFFICE OF SECURITI

11110573

MERO 1 JULY. 1975

FOR:

INSPELTUR GEN'L

SOBS: POSSIBLE QUESTIONABLE ACTIVITY

2. BACKEROUND:.. ON 27 JUNE JIM ANGLETON TELE

PHONED WALT ELDER. DAVE ARON DF THE 55C

STAFF tD UNCOVERED A STAfF AGENT IN NEw

YORk Wo IND BEEN AN AGENCY MAFIA PENE-

TRATION WHICH ANGLETON GAID RADUBERONAN

ROGGE AUTHORIZATION DE ATTY GEN'I RUST

NGER

F KENNEDY IN 1963. ThE AGENt HAD TReD tO

CONTACT HIS. CAGE DEFICER BUT WAS UNSUCCES4-

EUL AU So HAD INSTEAD CONTACTED ANGLETON.

3. 1 DISCUSGED THE MATTER WITH JONN GREANE

iN SUMARy, He TOUD ME THat THE AGENT

HALT WITH NERBERT ITKIN UNO NAS INFO

ABOUT LINKS BETUY THE CHICAGO TEAMSTER UIDN

AND THE WEI BROS REP'D. THIS tO NIS CIE

OFFICER, AND IN A FEW DAS THE DDO (HEVIS)

DISCUSSED THE MITTER WI REK BECAUSE Of

KENNEDT'S REQUiREMENTS FOR INFO ON NOFFA

AND W/ SAM PAPICH OF THE FBI.

BeO IWAS TO PONDENTIAN

AS AN F31

---

## Page 40

CONFIDENTIAL

11110577

SOURCE AND TURN HIM OVER TO THEM. CIA COULD

NOT TORE DERBRODTO THE FELBECIUSE NE

WAS A LONG TIME AGENT (RECRUITED IN ITAL

10 1944 BY LAMES ANGLETONA CUNO AND SPERA-

TOMAL INUOLEMENTS FOR US IN MAITI AND

OTHEL PLACES IN MISe 1943 BROS TORIES

TKIN dEe TO THE FBI BUT UNEURTATEL

HErT A STRING IN HIM. ITKIN WAS A NOUN

PROBLEM ANT FROM TIME TO TiME LownS RETURI

TO BROD FiSR ADVISE AND SO FURTH, ROCCA (CI)

HAS PREPARED A FULL BOK OU THE ITKIN!

BHOD CAGE BUT THE ONLY

ACE MENTONES

IN PSEUDO!

9 JUNE 1975. TIME ARTICLE MANES

CELIAN MAFIOSO IN CONECTION LU! CIA

CONFIDENTIAL.

---

## Page 41

_CONFIDENTIAL

11110573

A:

ANGLETON

OFFICE SE SECURITY

TELETYPE NOr 1974

EM FRIS LONDON

TO RUDIE/AMEMB LUNDON)

ANGLETON INTERVIEW / LONDON DOMESTIC T.V.

WELL, I CAN SAY THAT MAL COVERGE INS

VERSESFUL ON SWALD

CORR

WHAT DO YOU MEAN GUCCESGFUL

WelL, SUCcEEFUL IN THE SENSE TEAT WheN WE

APPEARED AS THE ASGASSIN SE THE FRES: AND

WHEN I WeN BACk iN thE FlELDS TheRE wAs

CORRESPONDENCE FROM MOSCOW THAT GALE

AN INSIGHT THAT NO ACES COULD POSSIBLY

He GiveN to thE MAN

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 42

SECRET

GEO. DE MOL REUSEHILDT

11110573

OFFICE OF SECURITY

MESO 14/3984 34. JERRY G. BROWN, SAG

LE DALLAS AFTER 19 ARR 1963 FOR A TRIP

TO N.T., PHILA. AND WASH. DE, THEN TRALEING

TO WAIT

NO INFO IN TESTAMON ON WHOL, TEET tHD

CONACT. W, I UHAt THEY WERE DOING 19 APR-

LATE MAl 1963

ON APR D9 1963 GALE ALLEN, DOD CAGE SIFIER

He REQuESTED AN EXPEDITE CHECK ON SEM

"EXACT REASON UNKNOWN"

IT IS INTERESTING TOO ALLEN INTEREST IN DEM

COINUDED. W THE EARLIER PULTION OF THIS

ThIP AND THE INFO WOULD SUGGEST TENT posI-

ALENt DEM WERE POSSIBU IN THE SAME

ENIRONMENT IN WAN DE CIDEA 26 AR 1913"

MEMO 8 APR 1964

STORAL]. CIA CABLE IN IN 65452(FROM.]

DATEO 20 NOY 1463 RELATINO TO

OSWALD

MATTER CONTAINS INFO REGARDING

ONE E, TORRES PROSABLY EDELBERTO TORRES OF

MEXICO CITY

TORRES, ALSO MENTIONED IN

CABLE IN 68376

- SECRET

---

## Page 43

SECRET

11110580

RON MENCO CENTED 2U NON 1962

HiWARNER KLOEPFER:

WAS OF INTEREST TO 00/C EDOMESTIC CON-

TACTS SERVICE] DURINO SEPT 1963, APPARENTIY

IN RELATION TO USI LOPE, SCIENT. INTELL] RE-

QUIRENENTS

MEMO. 1/7/44

MAJOR BISNOP 119 E. 79 ST NYC

GIVEN AS REFERENCE BY GEO DEM

-SECRET

---

## Page 44

CONFIDENTIAL

EPSTEIN

1111058:

OFFICE OF SECURITY

MEMO

26. SEST 1977

FOR: DEP. DIR. SECURITY

FROM:.. BRUCE SOLE

CHIEF, SECURITY ALLIS GROUP

GORDON STEWART, FORMER DIR, OF PERSONIEL AND

INSPECTOR GENERA (RET. 1991) WAS 1.G. IN

EARLY 1968

SELECTED BY DEI TO ACT. IN

A MIDDLE-MAN

CAPACITY IN CONTROVERSY OVER NOSENKO CASE

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 45

•SEGRET E

IRVIN DAVIDSON

OFFICE OF SECURITY

11110582

1/19/21 PITTABURGH, PA

CONFIDENTIAL MEMO APRIL 11, 1971

RECORDS OF OPERATIONAL LiAISON OFFICE, ODO

PISCLUSEO NO DEO RELA-

TONGH? WY DAVIDSON .

RECORDS... OF CLA SEE DE SEL CERVAN KUHNKE)

Nor INFORUN CONTACI UF ClANE BY DAVIDSON

MAOR TO JULY 16,1971...

JULT 1971

A REP OF CE'L COUNSEL CIA ADMSED

Me. HENRI PETERSON, CHIEF, CRIM. DIV., 089T.

JUSTICE THE DANDSON HAD FURNISHED SOME

INFO tO thA BUT THeT It WAS INsuffIcIENt

INTEREST TO IVARRANT CIA INTERFERENCE W)

PROS OF DAVIDSON

MBIO 12 AR 7I

FR: GEN'I COMEL

SUBS: ISAORE IRMNE DANOSOIN

... A REMEN OF SUBU'S 201, SECURITY AND

FILE

DoES. not

LEFLECT ANM USE OF SUBS

SECRET

BY THIS AGENCY

---

## Page 46

SEGRET

11110583

AT ANY TME

MENO 16 JULY. 1991

BY JOHN S, ORGANT, ANST GEN'L COUNSEL

FOLLOUNG RECOROS TELE COMERSATION WI

MR: HEURY PETERSEN, CRIM DIU., DEPF JUSTICE

OU 13 JUL. DANDSON IS DEFENDANT IU A

MAIL FRAUD AND BANKRUPTEY CASE IN DIGT.

LT. IN CALIF. DAVIDSON MAS BEEN A FRONT

INOLEO MI THE WEST CONST TEMSTERE,

LARCE OF CONCEALINE ASSETS UF INTERSTATE

EXCAVATION COMPAN

..

3. WITH IN TRE LAST TEN DAYS, A FLURY Of

RUMORS OF PRESSURE BEINE BROWENT TO BEAR

ANFLENGE ON THE WUST. DEFT HOE DEVELOPED.

a. MEno spon HELMS tO ATTY GEN MITChELL

b. MeMo FRon NELMS TO DEP. ATTy GEN kLEIN

DEINEST

C. MEMO KROM AS5T AG MARDIAN, 'PERNE.

SEL AUTO ASST ATTY GEN WILSON

d. LETTER TO MURRAY COTINER FROM MOR

GEN TARIN, CHIEF ISRAEL MILI. INTEL.

SEGRET

---

## Page 47

SECRET

11110587

.. 28 192 1971

4. As HeRS AWARE, DADSON IS DECAIONAL

ODENVA JINFORMAT. NO ME THUS MAY BE

WILLINE COOPERATE WITH WODISHTIE NOT

(womice.]

WASH POST 9/29/64

CHARLES MADE TRIP TO US CITIES, INCLUDINE

DALLAS IN EARL RIGY TO BUY BOATS AND OTHER

MEMO 25. 121962

UGNALT RELIABLE SORCE REP'D THAT ON

WHILEIN

MELO LITT

30 Ma 195?

"DEMOSO LENTED INTO AT"ALES

ANY PRICE FOR IUFO ON GUATEMALAN, NICARA-

GUAN AND COSTA RICAN EXILE AIIVITY IN

MEXICO ERR SUBMINION TO PRES. SOMOZA UF

NICARAGUA

DAVIDSON GAD ME REPORTS DIRECTLY TO UNITE

HOst THRU FRANK BERRY of ElLENHOWER'S

STARE CONCERNNO CENTRAL AMER. ACTIVITIES.

DAVIDION WAS ACCOMBANIGO TO MEXICO BY

WD. FENDERTIT OF WID. FELDERT. CO., COTTON

MERCHANTS OF DALLAS

SEGRET

---

## Page 48

SEGRET

murphy rare.

1:00 pe

11110585

ase rur by for de. at trep 62

contaci

5p was response for deal

tending.

disn't rensber

Nease was cow prianty kraus g

interest in declosing orter areas

for did not tave fin acres 8 6

rateral

participal

were

No if can't clangy tereap ino

rew upo

-SECRET

---

## Page 49

SECRET

1171058%

naro ap 64 pressics 3a for Di

toresolve caused decisions mada

a change typeg instio

1 safe want do foot her alo

it so Dio din true go

waild resour i

netinate decision made dy De

i importan a resolve

ClA in percoi was parciculary senative

Iy did vot fare pertration proble

I wert or to former i fired?

to vine curo statio

crew N was promoted ay door

taylor 1 Forder Stewart f'6

leftgure 68

wrap tysk up no corelion

SERRET

---

## Page 50

11110587

SECRET

I may ery tave crapolated

i was coondirate

sovier unior.

pour fo au

or swali.

enor

SRoic may tave don went up

Kostpor os Solut

SECRET

---

## Page 51

OLGRET

IRVING DAVIDSON

11110583

OfFICE SE SEURITY

se.

MENO

7 JAN 1964

FROM: ROBT GUTTSCHLING

CONF. INFERUANT RECENTLY ADVISED THAT

RES. OF HAITI DURING LAST WEER OF DOC. 1963

SENT LONE MESSAGE TO SUBU [DArIOSONI

CONTENTS UT KNOWN

DOL

NEWS CLIP

most: 904T929864 34 NRY GALL

HIT AN PRES. DUVALIER REL'D PURELSE Of

TWO .T-28 FIGHTER PLANES FROM DELA

FIGNTER PLANES FLOWN TO HAITI ILLEGALL

DAVIDSON VISITED HAITI MAY 1963 4

Two DALLAs ARuS SUppLIERS

DUVALIER MADE DOWN POMMENT WI LETTER

Of CREDIT FOR $210, 000 DRAWN ON BANQUE

COMMERCIAL OF PORT-AU-PRINCE

PRES. + PRINCIPAL STOCKNOLDER DO BANQUE

IS CLEMENT JOS. CHARLES ... CLOSE DUVALIER:

ALLY

... EARLIER THIG YEAR MADE.

-. SNOPPING TRIP

-SECRET

---

## Page 52

SECRET

11110583

TO US, INCE. DALLAS TO BUY BOTS AND STAFR

WEAPONS

9/30/64 TRANSACTION WET TROUGH MEX BALK

STAR

4/1/457

DOMESTICALL", DAVIDSON REPRESENTS TEXAS CORM.

DUNES BY MURCHISON "UTERESTS AND

FRYENDSHIS WL. BOBBI BAKER

DoC

MEMO

12/28/59 SECRET

FROM JEN MCCUPD

RE DAVIDSON, IRVING I.

SEE FILE ON DONALD HUGAN A DAKID PULLIPS

FOR ADDITIDINAL PERTIMENT INGO ON DANDSON

SECRET

---

## Page 53

DOC"

DOC:

DOC:

SECRET.

11110590

SALVIA LUDLOW HYDE MOKE

OFFICE OF SELURITY (SUFT FILE)

SEE 051 (USAF) RPT DID. 12/14/56 (#33-3439)

TITLE: GILHA LUDLOW HIDE IOKE

GEE. FBI RPTS 9/17/56-2/6/57)

59.204, 5/7/54

INDEX

HIDE, WM. A.

$31 ROT. Z1 SEPT 51

MENO FOR THE RECORD

7/30/71

SUB: HOKE, GILMA

FLE # 318201

IDENTIFIED AS CIA EMPLOYEE IN '61 ISSUE OF

FALLS CHURCH VA. DIR.

BRUCE LI SOLE

DEPUTY CHIEF, SRS.

MEMO

9 MY 67.

FROU...E. MENDOZA/ 5RS

SUBS : SILVIA LUDLOW NOKE

DANCHTER oF WMSECREMDE G. 157435

---

## Page 54

DoC.

DOL

-SECRET

1111059:1

MOTHER-IN-LAW IS HELEN MORE RATTS,

PARTNER IN NY PUBLISHING FIRM WI DOROTHY

WILSON, AKA DOROTHY WILSON SELIGSON, AKA

MRS. LOU SELIGSON, IDEN. A MAIBER U CP

1962-68 WILSON HAD CONTACT WI ISADURE

GIBBY NEEDLEMAN CONCERNNG FINANCUL PAT-

MENTy FEDM BERNARD GEIS

MEMO

5 DEC 1963

FROM : CHIEF, RESEARN BRANCH/ 05/SRS

WM. 191DE LONSIDERED FOR LOVERT USE

IN VIETNAM IN 1957. BUT NUT USED

SUME

POSSIBILITY TET UM. AVERY NUDE LAS FATEER

Of ruTh paNE WAn, pREvIouSLY BROUGhT To THE

ATTENTION Of MR. PAPICH THROUGN

4/51G

MEMO TO BRUCE SOLE

21 DEE 1955

FROM TALBUT BIELEFELST

ABS ORR, PAUL, MILET AND OTERS

WH. A tiDE WAS IN WASH. ThiS LAST wEEK-

END VISITINO JOWN I SALUTA WOKE. NOKE INTES

BIELEFELDT + RICHARD JENKINS OVER SINCE

THEY HAD BEEN

FRIENTS

IT STANDARD

SECRET

---

## Page 55

DOL:

11110592

- SEGRET

MEMO FROI SOLIE 6/15/55

RED THAT FILE BE SET UP ON SILVIA HYDE

HOKE

•SEGRET

---

## Page 56

-SECRET

11110593

RUTH HYDE PAINE

OFFICE Of SEC. (SOAT FILE)

MEiO 255 MAR 604

TO CHLEF EMPOYEE ACTIVITY BRANEN

GUBS. TALGUT BIELEFELDT

GUBI REPORTED ONONE CALL FROM MR, CAROL

AUDE, MOTHER OF PEN PALE; PAINE IN LAGE.

To TESTIfY BEFORE WARREN COUM.

SUBS STATEO HO MIGHT WAIT MRS, NADE BUT

BELIeut hE WILL not visiT Mes. pArIvE

-SECRET

---

## Page 57

CA FILE REVIEn

-SECRET

11110594

JOHN LINDSAY HOKE

OFFICE OF SECURITY (SOFT FILE)

DOL:

SEE FBI RPT 9/21/56

TITLE. SYLVIA LUDLOW HYDEMOKE

FD -204; 5/7/54

REQUEST FUR APPROVAL DE LIAISON / RENEWAL

BAUC 64

TO: CHISE, EMPLOYEE ACTIVITY BRANCH PERIOS

SUBS: RED FE SECURITY APPROVAL DE MAISON ON A

CONTINING BASIS

DOC:

Doc.

AND OTHER SUCH MEMBERS S

ENGINCERINE STAGE DESIGUATES BY HIM

TITLE: COMMUNICATIONS RESOURCES SPECIALIST

AID/ WAGH.DC

I SECRET CUAMIFICATION

REQUEST FUR APPROVAL DE LIAISON/ REVEWAL

27 A0G6 1963

REpLEST FOR APPROVAL dE MAISON

21 AUG 1962

-SECRET

---

## Page 58

SEGRET

5/2/78

BIOGRAPHY

11110527

B. 30 OCT 27 IN NIKOLAYEY, UKRAINE

PEFECTED 4 FEB. "64.

FATHER: IVAN ISI DOROVICH NOSENKO

PROMINENT SOV. SHIPBUILDING ENG.

BECAME 50V. MINISTER OF SHIPBUILDING IN

MOSCON

ATTENDED NAVAL TRAINING SCHOOLS

ATEND OF WAR: ENTERED INSTITUTE Of INTER-

NATIONAL RELATIONS. IN MOSCON

MARRIED IN: 1917.70 DAUENTER EF 5OV, LT. GEN.

MARRAGE DISSOLED ALTER SALIN'S PURGE

UF FATHER-IN-LAW

1950 JONED 5OV. NAVAL INTELLIGENCE SERNCE

AND SERIED IN FAREAS AND IN BALTIC

EARLY 1953 TRANSFERED TO KGB: ASSIGNED AS

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE OFFICER OF AMER. EMB. SEC-

T'ON oF The AMeR. DEp

JUNE 1953 MARRIED DANONTER OF FIRST. DEPUTA

CHIeF UF STATE COMM FOR COOR: DE SUIENTIFIC

RESEARCH WORK; WIFE AND CHILDREN LEFT IN

SOV. UNION WHEN HE DEFECTED

JUNE 1955 TRANSFERRED TO TOURIST SECTION dE

SEVENTE DEFT. OF KOB INTERNAL COUNTER-IN-

TELLIGENCE DIRECTORATE

JONGO COMMUNIST PARTY IN 1957

SEGRET

PLIMARILI INVOLUES IN OPERATIONS DESIGNEO

---

## Page 59

SEGRET

11110523

TO RECRUT AMER. AND BRITISH COMMON WEALTH

MORISTS

1957, 1958 USED ALIAS TURIT IVANDICH NICOLA-

MEZ: WENT TO LONDON AS SECURITY ESCORT

FuR SON. SPORTS DELEGATIION

11958. JANED AMER-BRIT COUMOUNEALTH SECTON

OF SEVENTAN DEFT, TE IDENTIAVINE AND RECRUIT.

ING FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE AGENTS VISITINO

GOV. U. AS TOURISTS; INCL. CI OS INOWING

ENTRAPMENT

MAN. 1960 TRANSFERRED TO AMER. EMB. SECTION OF

THE AMER DERT.; RESPONDIBLE FOR MONITORING

CONTACTS BETT

US END PERSONEL AND SQV,

UTs AND FOR couLEctiNg of INfD oN AvER.

EMB. PERSONNEL TO FACILITATE RECRUITMENT

MREH: 1962 ACCOMPANIED SOVIET DELEGATION

TO THE.. DISARUMENT. CONF IN GENEVA AS

SEC ESCORT

JAN 1964 RETURNEO TO GENEVA AS SEC ESCORT

FIR SOV. DELE TO DISARMAMENT. CONE IN GENDA

-SEGRET

---

## Page 60

FILE

P. 5

SEGNCT

11110525

XAMINATION OF BONA FIDES OF A KOB DEFECT

PE3. 1968

QI

NOTE ON COVER

...CLA FINDS THIS STUDI TO BE INACCURATE

IN MANY IMPORTANT DETAILS AND TO DETAIN

INE RESULTS OF FAULTY JUDGMENTS LEADING

TO UNFOUNDED CONCLUSIONS

INTERROGATION PERIODS

12 FEB 1964 ARRIVED IN COASH: D.C.

14 FEB 1964 MST WI REPS OF SWISS AND SOVIET

GOrT.; RENOUNCED USSR CITIZENSHIP

18 PEB

INITIAL DEBRIEFING COMPLETED

24 FEB

INTPODUCEO TO FBI FOR DESTONINE

12-26 LiAR

LALII VACATION

4. APR

PLACED IN PERMANENT SAFENDUSE OUT

SIDE WASH: D.C.; POLYGRAPH BEGUN

24 APR

INTERROGATION COMPLETED

MAY- NOV.

FRIENOT INTERROGATION

INTERIM CONSULTATON LY FBI

76 JAN 1965 - 5 MAR HOSTILE INTERROGATION

FEB 1965

N. EXECUTED PROTOCOLS

36 JULY 14 AUG: FURTNER INTERROGATION

19-25 OCT. 19L6

HAL 1965

3 WEER INTERROGATION BY PSYCHIA -

PLUT

DALF

TR 151

PSYCNO LOGIST

---

## Page 61

P. 20

59

SECRET

11110533

UT 1966 INTERROGATION ENDED

SOVIET DFFICIALS CLAIMED N. 'S DEFECTON CAUSED

SEVERE QUAGE TO KUB, PROMPTED EXPULSION ADD

DISCRICE OF NUMEROUS SENIOR KGB PERSONNEL,

CAUSED RECALL OF PERSONNEL FROM ABRODO,

SUSPENSION OF CPERATIONS IN UIS.

DESPITE HIS CLAIMED ACTIVE COMMISSIONED SER-

vicE In ThE nAM, N. KNows notHinG Of sOr

NAVY TRADTION, DOCTRINE, ORGANIZATION, CR. PRO-

LEDURES: HE DISCLAIMS KNOWLEDGE OF RUR-

CNNIZATION ONER THAN AT THE POGS LiMERE dE

SERVED, "BECAUSE UF HiS JUNIOR RANK." NONEVER

EVEN AT THOSE POSTS HE DESCRIBES NETHER

The stAff, The fuNeroNs Nor the peRsonneL

NTELLIGIBLY NOR DOES NE DESCRIBE THE POSTS!

ACTUAL LOCATIONS!"

---

## Page 62

Dobryrur

unisertfred

KasuRor

ropeg.

Trempician

Mosty

CEORET

rucey

11110532

---

## Page 63

POLINET

11110532

FILE NOSENCO INTERROGAT: ONINRANSCRIPI

REEL # 1 26 U24 1965 (DERYABIN) COMPLETE

RANSLATION IF VERBATIN TRANSCRIPT

P INHENCE THOU DID YOU SHOW UP IN CITY OF MOSCOW

AT END OF 1952 ARRIVED IN MOSCON FROL CITY

OF SOVETSE, PRiMORSKIY KRAY (10-15 KILO. FROM

CITY DE BALTINSK, FORMERLY PILLAU - BASE OF

FORTY INVAL FEET DF BALTIC

14V+ INTELLIGENCE POINT IS IN SOVETSK-

WORKES TNERE POR SEVERAL MOUTNS IN 1952

WENT TO MOSCON TO WORK IN NANT INTELLIGENCE

AND THEE FIND SOMETHING ELSE

WaS oN QUE MONTH LEAVE WhEN HE LENTTO

MOSCOW, DID NOT MALE TO REPORE TO HO

ID. DISPUTESTAT IT HOLLO BE POLIBLE TO GO

ON LEAVE AND REDETE WIO REPRETING)

P. 17

UNILE ON. LENE IN MOSCOW "THE BUSINESS

AROSE TITY WOULD BE TAKEN TO WORK IN

THE MOS" MINISTRY OF SATE SECURTY)

QUESTION OF BONG RINSPERRE TO MOB CAME

Le AT KORLOVS DICHO AT ABOUT 111/53, PARENTS

PRESENT

ATER CONTACTIO BY MINISTRA DE STATE SEC

DOUDO RES

SERTE

---

## Page 64

57

75

11110533

D ASSERTS THAT PERSON WNO WORKED IN KGB

WOULD RNOU PERFECTLY SETE RULES AND REGULA-

TONS iNSTEAD UF MERELY GUESSING WORT PROCE -

DRES NOUS NAVE BEEN)

ANHOT REMEMBER NAME OF FERSONNEL QUESTIONARE

("ANKETA") THAT NEFILLED OUT

AT BEGINNING OF APRIL MET WI GORBATENKO

DE FIRST DEPT., FIRST SECTION AS CASE OFFiCER

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AGAINST AMERICAN EUB.

---

## Page 65

BRIDY

4/26/78

11110531

FILE: NOSENKO INTERROGATION TRANSCRIPT

P.1-4

5

9

REEL # 2:26 JULY 1965 (DERYABIN) COMPLETE TRANSCA-

TON OF VERBATIM TRANSCRIPT

P. QUESTIONS FACT THAT N. DO NOT ENDW A SECONE

GAUCHENKO WHO WIS LT. GENERAL IU KGB

NOSEN KO'S CHIEFS: FEDOTON, SHUBNYAKOr, GRIBANOV

NOSERO STATES. NE REC'O PAYÉU 1700 RUBLES PLUS

500 FUR RANK

D. CLAIMS NO PAY WAS GIVEN FOR RANK AT TiME

N. BEGAN IN MAR. 1953

27

NS: SERVED. AS. INTERPRETER-TRANSLATOR OF INTELLIGENCE

DE THE SEVENTE NAVAL FLEET IN TRE PACIFIC OCEAN

28

42

AFTERWARDS WORKED IN BALTIC IN 1952 AGASENICR

INTERPRETER TRANSLATOR. OF THE MAS, MRP OF IN-

ELLIGENCE OF THE FOURTH MALAL FLEET IN TNE BALTIC

CANNOT TELL MAIN SARE AD de SURVEILLANCE

BASE OF IST DEOT: FOR 1953-55

N. NAMES SAFE APTS DE SURVEILLANCE OF THE

SECOND CHIEF DIRECTORATE

VOSSTANITE SQUARE

AREA OF KROPOTKINSKAYA BRIDGE

Saunet

---

## Page 66

11110537

---

## Page 67

Đ. P

COLCNET-

11110537

FILE

PER REDUEST FROM PAUL KART -

MAN"

25/74

OZGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS:

DOP DIRECTURATE

SOLIET BLOE

LAESPMINX7 LEORnCeL (AgTorte]

BIOGRAPHIC.DAT

MAY 1944 TRANSPERRED TO GUKR/MGB MOSCON

AVD: COMPLETED. COURSE AT HIGHER COUNTER-IN-

TELLIGENCE SA100OL IN MAY 1945

.MAY 1945 TRAUSFEERSO TO COUNTER-INTELLI -

GENCE DIRECTORATE FOR NAYY, SERVING AS ITS

KOMSOMOL SECRETARY.

MÄY 1946 TRENSPERRED BACK TO NOME AREA Wi

MGB

APRIL 1947- NNE 1951 ASSIGNED TO CHIEF

DIRECTORITE OF TRE GOT. GUARO, PROMOTES TO

MAJOR IN 1949

JUNE 1951 - DEFECTION 1954 MGB OPERUTIOINS

OFFICER. A MOSCOW ND + ABROAD

*MENiO IN LEU OK ETTNESS REPORT 26 SEPT 1973

IAS PREPARED MAVOR ANALYSES. ON TEO PERSONS

WHO ADPEAR TO MAVE BEEN SOVIE PENETRAT OIUS...

101 PAGES, 425 PAGES -

HonF

---

## Page 68

SEGRET

11310536

FILE, NOSENKO INTERROGATION TRANSURIPT

REEL # 3: 28 JULY 1965 (DERYABIN) COMPLETE TRANSL

STON OF VERBATIM TRANSCRIFT

P. 3

asIN k04sanO4 1943-1954

lo

AT END OF 1953 ELECTED SEC, UE PARTY ORGANIZATION

OF SECOND CHIEF DIRECTURATE

23

PE NOW HE BECAME SECRETARY OF KOMSOMOL ORG

DOES NOT REMEMBER KOMSOMOL COMM. REP.

DOES NOT REMEMBER NOW KOMSOMOL ELECTIONS

ARE CARRIED DUT

32

DUES: NUT REMEMBER NUMBER OF KOMSOMOL IDENTI-

FICATION

SEGRET

---

## Page 69

SEBRET

11110533

DERYABIN

INTERROGATED NOSENKO DURING 26 JULY - 13 AUG

1965

27 nor 1963

MEMO FUR: CHIEF SRICI

SUBU: PETER DERYABIN COMMENTS ON PRES.

KANNEDI'S ASGASSIDATION

BENEFITS TO KRUSCHEN OF JE'S DEATH

1. LESS WESTERN PRESSURE ON KRUSENEY; CONCILI-

ATORY US ATTITUDE

2. DIVERSION FOR INTERNAL SOVIET PROSS

(PROBS OF 1963 HARVEST, CHICON ARGUMENTS)

3. BECAUSE OF CASTRO ALLEGATIONS, JONNSON

WOULD RESTRAIN PROL ANY PLANNED INTERVENTION

IN... CUBA.

4. KRUSCHEN'S tO HOLLO BE STRENGTNEVED

IN DEALING WITH CHICOMS

5. ANy PlANs BY Jfk to Get touGH wth

SOVIETS DRING ELECTION YEAR WOULD THUS BE

iSABOTGED

6. DE CAULE WOULD EMERGE AS STRONE

WESTERN LEADER; HE WAS SUPpORTiVE Of SONIES

7. RISING INTELLECTUAL DISGENGION IN USSR

WOULD. BE TRUTED

8. THE ASSASSIMTON

WOULD PIT RIGHT AND

---

## Page 70

ASEGRET

11110533

I6FT IN USA AGAINST EACH OTVER

9. JEE'S MURDER, WHETER PLANNED OR NOT,

WIle PROVE POWER ANO OMNISCIENCE OF KGB

...THE SOVIET INTELLIGENCE SERVICES ItALE SUF-

FERED SOME VERy REAL REVERSES RECENTLy

WTE PENKONSKY, GOLITSIN'S DEFECTION, THEIR

IGNOMINIDUS EXPULSION FROM THE CONCO, ETC.

Have lonG prEdIcted That tHe usse wous

TAkE SoE DRASTIL ACTION TO MALE THE eMPO

EROSION OF THEIR SECUerTI

RASES POSSIBUTY THAT OSALD WAS "'WITE"

TO MOSCON OR "INSPIRED" TO TRAVEL TO UGGR

AND. GEN ADICE OR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE

SOCIETS NEVER GIVE A VISA WITTOUT

MAKING AN INVESTIGATION DE THE PERSON MARINE

THE APPLICATION

WAS THE PERSON LUrO GNE USUALO TEE VICA

AKOB AGENT OR EMPLOYEE

IN MOSCON OSUALO HOLO NALE BEEN UNDER

OBSERVATION, IMESTIGATION AND "COMPLETE

COUTROL. DI KGB; WOULD NE GOTTEN ALL

POSSIBLE INFO FROM HIM, ESPECIALLY ABOUT

SERVICE IN MARINE CORPS

SCOREF

---

## Page 71

SEGRET

11110540

AM FOREIGNER, ESPECIALLY IN AMERICA LO

BE UNDER CONSTANT EBSERVATION ANO STUDI

FiR POSSIBLE FUTURE USE BY SOU. INTELL. AND

C.1. SERVICES

BELENES SOUIETS MOLD MALE CONDUCTES INVEST.

GATION U D. TEROUGH SOU. AGENT NETWORKS

+PROCOMMUNIGT ORGS. W/IN USA

THAT INITIAL REFUGAL TO MAGE NIM A SQUIET

CHIZEN WOULD HAVE BEEN FOR PROSE OF

FURTHER STUDI AND IN:

TREDRY

AFTER D. AGLED TO RETURN TO UIS.. WAS ASKED

To FIGHT FOR COMMUNIST CAUSE WIN THE CEA

THAT STATE SECURITY MENOO OF MANOLINO

POREIGUERS WOULD BE TO MAKE MARINA AN

AGENT

1E MRINA WERE NOT INITED TO DEFICIAL SOUIET

OFFICES iN AN ATTENT TO TALK NER OUT OF

THE MARRIAGE, TET WOULO INDICATE IT WAS

ARRANGED BU KGB.

IF MARRiAGE AND PAPERMORE WERE ARRANGES

AFTER OUT FEW MONTHS WAIT, WOULD iNDICATE

TIMO BEEN HANDLED B4 KGB

---

## Page 72

1111054

JAMES VERBERT MURTIN

OFFICE OF SECURITY

"SOFT EILE" = MATERALS FROM, INDEX; DIS NOT

HAVE ACTUN DE ON HIM

23 1AT1968

MENO FOR: CHIEF, CIARTA

ATTN (ME KESER]

SUBJ: MARDIN, JAMES WERBECT

PER YOUR REDUEST DE 10 MAY 1968 fOR A

SEARCH OF OS INDICES ON ONE LAMES NERBERT

MARTin, ATTACHES IS A SUMARy DE INFO

AVAILABLE Q SUBU IN OS RECORDS

PaUL F. GATNoR

CHIEF, SEC. RESEAREN STAFF/OS

COULD MT BE. IDENTIFIED WI ANT QUE DE

THE CANE NAME UNO APPERS IN OS INDICES

.... COPI DE NEUSPiDER CLIPPING... WASHINGION

POST FER 26 FES 1964.... DULY INEO ANALABLE

IN 0S RECORDS UN SUB .

WASHINGTON POST ARTICLE:

WIFES AGENT DENIES OSWALD PLOT ON NIXON

-SECRET

---

## Page 73

SURELE BRiDY

SEGRET

11110542

MURRET, MARILYN DOROTHY

201-761575

D.O.B. 14 JuL 28

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1963-1965

DELETIONS: FBI REPORT, 1964

PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

TUBE STA. : DU 6

DATE 17 SEPT 1964

SOURCE DOC. : FBI REPORE 7 MAY 1964

COUNTRY dE LOCATION: PAKISTAN

ACTION DESE: 5I/SI6 CODE 731

COMMENTS: LISTED AS ONE DF THE "MOST WANTED"

DEFECTORS IN THE ALLEN-SCOTT REPORE

MAR. 26,1964

DOC. TRANSFER A CROSS REF.

PERTINENT INFO

9 DEC 63: FBI NO. WAS CONTACTED RELATIVE

To THEIR INFERVIEW W/ SUBU, COUSIN OF LEE

HARVEY OSWALD, AND SHE DENIED HAVING. SEEN

OSWALD AT ANY THE OUTSIDE THE U.5.

DOC, TRAUSFERE CROSS REF.

SUBU ACTUAL OR POTENTIAL DEFECTOR

11 F5B 65

201-761577

100-002-077

- SEGRET

R 6507141156

---

## Page 74

SRELL BRADY

3/7/78

SECRET

SHIRAKOVA, RIMA

201-803914

11110543

NEE LMITRYUK = MARRIED NAME

HUSBAND.. VALERIY ZMARYUK.. 3. 2909,1937;

ENGINEERING STUDENT

MEMO

DEPT. OF STATE, BUREAU UF INTELL. I RESEARCH

TO DEP. DIR. PLANS, CIA

(DATE NOT LEGIBLE)

ATTRI: MR. CALVIN TENNET:

SUBI: IMITROOK, RIMA- LEE HARLEY OSULD'S

INTOURIST GUIDE IN MOSCOW

"ALTHOUGH COMPLETE FILES AT OUR OFFICE OF

SPECIAL CONSULAR SERVICES NO LONGER ARE

AVAILABLE ON PERSONS WINO MIGHT TALE SOUGHT

FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT EMBASSY MOSCOW

BETLUEEN: 1958. AND 1963..

DISPATCH

15 AUG: 1946

AFTER BIRF OF HER DAUGHTER IN DCT.: 1963

SHIRAKONA LET INTOURIST AND WAS EMPLOYED AGA

TEACHER of ENGUSH, IN A MOSCOW TEACHER'S

TRAINING COLLEGE

BORN: 19 JAN 1939

DATE OF MARRIAGE: 1943

SEGR

---

## Page 75

COLBRET

11110547

files apo

codes

oasis for apering 201 file

operational interest in interdial

mostly foreigners): potentiai recruit.

would trace files in the field or sypter

for ary info or. the persor

racing ar indiendinal: eis foreign

speciärise, consteristliger

sometive wher there are seal files of

a perdor it is more convenient to

put it al is ore frie = 201

racing ruing trong al variate

y persons name, computer prist-du

casi oficer couls intiate 201 fue; tes

wordly nose, prowledgeable

typo: relate tip tax persor is die.

closing minitar, secrets.

as guagnere cace as to urether

20 fire i opered; but the po

waise be passia or contraring,

ever y a 206

Me i nor spered

---

## Page 76

SEGRET

11110595

artie 20, criteria

witness

gh-luce foreigh office

tere are writer regulations foreir

if tise citeria

some operations are nur pros 49, are

noc the field, so the Hip officer wand

initiate in La file

ARQI: biograptical upo

II: bio data, asssanent, purveillance

results (may be filed afor corac

io/ the ipiurdial)

they would be located in 201 fice;

soretives II is not rade, so it

war't recessarily be isluded wol

Tere dial filing pudonym. o

cryptoryn we not be fild up name

fice; PRAII wis usually use crypto.

nym, to tky would he stored entere

ou can rict indey check to locate ale

juis, os angeral file standa rejer

to otter fit SECRET

---

## Page 77

SEGRET

11110546

pacicoteer in loi file struva le naur

taired to reference offer fie

201 fie is brogiaptical, nas operaziona

riteria joi cassification o source

decaria criteria rio (e.s. vitti

conatorator).

uce witig collaborator

pare al witting collaborator

forner wieing collaborator

potertiai/ rever contactea

casses 41 - 47)

Here is table o cortiste te to fies

ase for trat: computer wii spir

out or file regerence ardal

materia unes tas feer casai.

fed eno tat file

vercise ipo = complia trongr

comunications irligere (no

longer stior was to be Repe

sparately)

k caice - special charare

SECRET

---

## Page 78

SEGRET -

A 7105-2

yarachel agery i coricting ar

file to condirare din's involvement

youcter oyster

agent in the fueld is nost likely un?

vous

see precar france).

prescribed thirted (PIL) - Commerica-

tois itch are compartmented (e.5.

sealed envelies).

"PIL traffic charrel is determinis

by top three DOU Staff

tat info tay he dour faded outse

querty.

destruction f does is prescribed dy

archives, materials are not de-

strayed die to rature f the oper

cor

Soviets woe paraciel system

dual intelligence wies no Crass

referee betier the turo

prosyn may be lised for asiate

es family menters but that doe

not recisia

near a 201 fie

---

## Page 79

-SECRET

11110543

would exist for each of ther

defection of area soldier may be

premily retary rather

201 fue would not be gend wres

Here was operato ai rares

I staff did fave rave in

difector i 40's

→ El did at de tore maintain

aparate fier on thin intere

ar effort is being made now to

integrate those file it to sipper

547 A jour= request to put documen

ito central file

very sensitive operations have very

tinted acces; persor tarding

would mase dear where to

put documents into syder

there car be operations for when filed

do nor chior

It is possible trat 201 file would not

reflect a particiar operatior

ryptonym may exist for projec, for

operation file are separately

rantained. Isest in crage

---

## Page 80

SECRET

11110543

iras sourcis fero iro ter orgaret

are there any files in the field that

are nor also raistarred at 4Q

are there oor cenest whit resue

is other type of file

- SEGILLE

---

## Page 81

ClA

11110550

-SECRET

files are raistaired 50 years

it is possible tat after ar

operations file is destroyed the

didiat's name. file say not

reper. to or declose the operation

officig personnel files are maintainia

separatel, for 201 files

---

## Page 82

PLEA

SECRET

1111075-

ACE MERVE RECO FROM AMBAGSADOR DOBRININ

RELATINE TO OSUALS (SON. GOUT. DOES) 1964

140 FORMAL LEE RANKIN

UBIS DOES ON OULD FURNiSINED BY SOU. GOUT

C TUE INCLUSION OF MARINA'S VISA APPLICATION

& SINGULAR IN VIEN OF FACT TAHT COLM. AND

DUE EDESTCO NEO aU MARiNA: MOREOVER, THE

DOL PURPORATINCO TO BE AN APPUCATION FOR AN

EXIT VICA LEONI QUALIFIES AS SUCH. LE

KUOU FROM TRE CAGES IF OTHER SON, CITIZENS

TRUST SUCH PERSONS ARE RED'STO PROVIDE

CONSIDERIBLI MORE INTO THAN LUIS REFLECTED

~ MARINA'S APPLICATION"

. MOREDER, IN INTER-

AEWS MARINA REFERRED TO HAVING FILLED OUT

THE NECESCARY FORMS AND O NUTEDIN NIS

PIART TENTLABUT 2O DOLS WERE NECTO

BY AN EXE VISA

RICHARD NEMS

DDP

AS BIGORIPIMTO WORK IN RIDIO FACTORT

SATED TIME HE SCENED IN UIS. MARTINE

SERVED TO, JAPAN MO THE PHILIPPINES

ATENDID ALCITARY SCHOOLS CONCERNED

LUTE ELECTRONIES, SURNEO AS RADAR OPERi-

O 12

SERGIET ON UNIT

---

## Page 83

SEGRET-

11310755

LE NAMES OF SOVIET OFFICIALS ARE ILLEGiBLE

OL SOV GOUT DOES

• SEGRET

---

## Page 84

BEGRET

14310756

WORTH MATO VES

TRANSLATIONS O MATERN RECIO FROM SOV.

EUB. WASH DIE RELATINE TO EMB. FILE ON

MARINAS APPLICAT ON TO REGISTER RESIDENCE

PERMIT LAST PLACE OF RES. IN USSE:

SIT OF MINSK, UL: KOMMUNISTICHESKAYA,

HOSEN, A9T. 251

Lo CONTEe TO RUSSIAN EUB., 50SH,D.C.

ASKS FOR INFO ON NOL TO SUBSCRIBETO

PROVA OR LAVESTIA RUSSIAN LANGUAGE

NELUSPAPERS ER SOME OTNER RUSSIAN LAN-

GUAGE MAGAZINES SUCH AS IGONYOK"

I Mous uKE FOR THE EMBASS tO SEND US ANY

FERIODICALS OR BULLETING CUNCH MAN PUT OUT

FOR THE BENEFIT OF YOUR CITIZENS LIVING, FOR

A TIME IN THE USA

---

## Page 85

ILLEGIBLE NAMES :

11110757

-SE

UDOC. WYO EXAMINED INO FOR FACTORY WORK

11160

TRAVER AT FACTORY 1/1/60

E FOR ISSUENCE DE ALIEN IDENTITY CARO,

INSPECTOR WHO REC'D APP A VERIFIED DOES 1/4/62

APPLICATION FOR IDENTITY CARO FOR PERSON W/O

CITIZENSIIP 14/61, INSPECTOR UNO REC'O

APPUCATIQU + VERIFIED DOCS

APPUCATION FOR VIGA FUR DEPARTURE: FROM USER (LND)

1/16/61, EMPUTEE UNO REGIOT VERIFIES DUES

APPLILITIOU FOR I.D. CARD FOR

12/29/59

IDENTITY CURO, SERIESE NO, 311479

ISSUED ON

1/4/60 B1

O CERTIFICATE TUAT LO IS EMPOTED AS ASCARIE

IN RADIO PLANT, MINSE 111/60

ISSUED. FOR PRESENTATION TO THE DER.M FOR

SIGNATURE.

UD CERTIFICITE 1113/61 TENT LO LIVES AT NO. 4

KUINN S., AT 24, CHIEF OF ZhKO

@ EMPLOYMENT RECORD BOOK

, CHIEF

I LETTER 7/9/62 FROM SON. EMB. WASH. TO

MARINA

PLEASE SEND TO LEGIBLE YOUR RESIDENCE

MEDIBLE FOR REGISTRATION.

AT THE SAME TIME PLEASE ILLOGIBLE NO. 118.

gronet

---

## Page 86

BRADY.

4/25/78

FILE:

11110410

"ALL MUTERVAL REC'O FROM AMBASSADER DOBRYNIN

RELITINGTO OSUAL (50U. GOVT.DOLS) 1964

MEMO FOR: J. LEE RANKIN

SUBJ: DOCH ON GUALD FURNISIYEO B4 SOU. GOUT.

C. TRE INCLUSION DE MARINA'S VISA APLICATION

1s SINGULAR IN VIEW: OF FACT TAHT COUM.AHD

_NOT REDESTED INTO DU NORINA: MOREOVER, THE

DOL PURPORTING TO BE AN APPUCATION FOR AN

ExIT VILA MD QUALIfIES AS SuCH. WE

KHU fRou THE CASES of OTHER SOU, CITIZENS

•.. TRUT SUEN PERSONS ARE RED'OTO PROVIDE

CONGIDERIBLY MORE INTO THAN LAS REFLECTED

IN MARINA'S "APPLICATION"

• MOREDER, IN INTER-

VIEWS'" MARINA REFERRED TO HAVING FILLED OUT

THe NECESARy FORMS AND O, NUTED IN N'S

DART ThiT AbU 20 doLs were nee to

BEAN AN EXIT ViGA

RICHARD NETHS

DDP

DE BIGORADIN TO LUORK IN RADIO FARTERY

SEATED THE HE SEEDIN WIG. MiRINE

CORPS, SERVED IN LAPAN DO THE PILOPINES

ATTENDED MILITARY SENDOLE CONCERNED

LUTT ELECTRONICS; SERUES AS RADAR OPERA-

---

## Page 87

THE NAMES DE SOVIET OFFICIALS ARE ILLEGISLE

oN Sor. GaT.DOCS

11110413

---

## Page 88

DEBRININ MASHES

TRANSLATIONS OF MATERIAL RECO FROM SOV.

EMB. WASH D.C. RELATIVE TO EMB. PILE ON

1H0 AND MALLIA

MARINA'S ADPLICTION TO REGISTER RESIDENCE

PERMIT: LAST PLACE iF RES. IN USSE:

CITY OF MINSK, UL. KOMMUNISTINESKAYA,

HOUSE", 49T.25

LHO LETTER TO RUSSIAN GUB, SAGHD.C.

ASKS FORINTO ON NOW TO SUBSCRIBOTO

"PROVA" OR "'AVESTIA" RUSSIAN LANGLAGE

NEWSPAPERS OR SOME OTNER RUSSIAN LAN-

GUGE MAGAZINES SUCH AS" IGONYOK"

"I Was UKE FOR THe EMBASS TO SEND US AN

PEMODICALS ER BULLETINS CUNCH MAN PUT OUT

FER THE BENEFIT i YOUR CITIZENS LIVING, FOR

A TIME, IN THE USA.

11110417

---

## Page 89

• LHO DOCH FROM DOBRININ

ILLEGIBLE iNAMES.

11110443

ODDE, WIO EXAMINED LHO FOR LASTORM WORK

@TRAINER AT FACTORY 1/1/60

(APPLICATION FOR ISSUENCE. DE ALLEN IDENTITY CARO,

INCRECTOR WHO REC'D AR T VENESO DOES 114/62

CY APPLICATION FOR IDENTITY CARO FOR PERSON W/O

CITIZENSHIP Y4/U!, INSPECTOR UNO REC'O

APPUCATIQUE VERIFIED DOES

15 APRUCITION FER VICA FOR DEPARRE FROM USER (44D)

1/16/61, EMPLOYEE WHO REL'OT VERIFIED. DOCS

CO APPLILATION FOR I.D: CARD FOR

12/29/59

IDENTITY. CARD, SERIES P NO, 311479 ISSUED ON

14/60 BT.

D. CERTIFICATE THAT UNO IS EMPLOYED AS ASSEMBLER

IN RADIO PLANT, MINSE 111/60

ISSUES FIR PRESENTATION TO THE DER. M FOR

SIGNATURE:

UD CERTIFICATE M/19/61 TEXT UNO LIVES AN IO. Y

KAUNN S., AT 24, CHIEF DE ZAKO.

@ EMPLOYMENT RECORO BODiG, CHIEF-

# 2719/625204 GEN. BUB. WASH. To

PLEASE SEND TO INCONSEE YOUR RESiDENCE

SE FOR RESTRAT-01.

AT THE SAME TVE PLEASE SCISE NO. 118 .

---

