# 180-10143-10182

## Page 1

180-10143-10182

SECRET

• De varona, manuel Antonio

201-196435 VolI

Exconclusive Dates

Leslie Wizelman

Box 28

Folder 31

ITEMIA

Political Actrun Files.

15 Oct 48-30 Sept. 49

WAD/DINO

Deletions - OFBI report dated 4 Feb5à (File: miami 97-130)

re Luis Ortega, aka Luis Ortega y Sierra.

@ 1948 thru Decl955

Third Agency Dowments

Speach by Carlos Prio-3-11-52-Translation - unclassitiéd -

during insurrection -went to Autentics house in tank seates

matanzas and "established contact with the

maceo Regiment

(note-- in santiago)."

11130058

Vol II- Jan 1956-April 1960 (-From Beginning of file)

Third Agency material- (.

I Contact Report-@ verona by Gerald Droller.-

met verona Del 27,1960 at "Jue Stonecrab" rest - miami Beach-

Droller was with Hunt, varona had foundan isolated istant"

prece of land un Andros Island-Bahamas - which could 1

be used as a training site fur one hundred people.

"Verona discarded the Idea. (COMMENT: I wouldbet

even money that he will pursue this aspect

unilaterally.) "

a memorandum of conversation, dated 11-29-60- re "Actuities

Against castro legime in Cuba".

partiapants: Varona (FRD);

EdwinE. Vallon, ARA/CMA; Robert A. Stevenson, ARA/MAS

Robert A. Hurwitch, ARA/CMA ;.Frank J. Deuine, ARA/CMA.

verona requested additional funds

@stated that Florida lawenfurcement "was much morestrict

8 severe than in the days when castro forces were operating

out of the area against Batista.".

1J0245

@ expressed impatience..

THIS COPY IS NOT

SECRIFOR RELEASE.

180-10143-10182

---

## Page 2

SECREL

-2-

Listed other members of furces working aganst castro:

1- Aureliano Sanches Arango-

varona doesn't get along

with him

2. Luis conte figero- Aguero- radio announcer & commentator

Alianza

3- Pedro Luis Diaz Lant.

y- manolo Ray

5- Andres Vargas Gomez- "yourg man of good family

§ personel " reputaton"- represents no one within Cuba.

Very small following.

6- A.R.E.C. rich cuban

businessmen & property owners.

varona recommends military action within next a months.

s belef-that us military intervention nevitable.

11130055

3 - Blank page

"Anti. Fidel Castro Actruities

Nou 15,1960

55105-107%

y- message to Director From WAVE, Dec Dec60, RoB "Reports

have been requested of[AMDIP."] End "escomment:#

"Queried water wether it feasible for AMCIGAR[ AMRASP)

begin prepare for Bender GP monthly progress or status

reports its actlurtes miami and other Branch office."

5-

message to prectorfrom Hauana

29 Apr 1960-

re warver of visa ineligibility fur howe servant of

Tony varona-

strongly recommended 0k45gensulate.

blank

•page-April27, 1960-

7÷ Orig. Gerald Droller

message To

28 April 1960

No. Kron"

2995

From Director

prepared to see him

New York-on Apri 130 or may 1.

(no. mention. of varona by name

---

## Page 3

- 3-

SECREL

8-70 Directur From

Jaz April 60 - 70 party DEr taTo

"On al April {Amback Icalled, "he cuntacted and passec

1000 Dollars per plan." Staying it Hotel El Conde"

• AmHAN Depart Caramn 22 or 28 April N.Y miami.

will

contact Castelun on a5-26 April depending return

maracay congress. Sanchez Arangos has not applied visa.

9-21 April 1960

re waiver fur house servant of Tuny VARUNA

maids

Caridad Obdulia Merina, Claro

DUB Sept5, 192%

Filed 1919102

11110052

0002450

= 2;

SECRETI

---

## Page 4

4

Ua) II-starting from the back (Chrondlogically)

1. Blanke Page Foreign Service Dispatch

7-11-56 #aa

Junt weeka N0.28 for State, Army & Air Depts.

2-..

Oct 3,1956

#200 52

Joint weeka nu 40.

3-7

5-

Oct

17, 1956 #232

Oct 17

,1956'232

1-3-57

#389

4-10-57

# 671

1 .

Noya

NO I

from

N014

Datect 8/8/57

7- Biographical Info form on varona

from

Gpp.

00B

Place: Camaguey, Cuba

Friend-, Eter Carlos Prio Socarras

wife: Emetica Emiliana RUISANCHEZ de Varona

children: Carlos manuel de varona

segura Bustamante

one brother (no name given)

nee de veronz

11110053

1940-44- member-lowe of Reps

44-48

Cuban Senate

48-50 - Prime minister& senator of Prio gou't

50-5a=. Pres of Cubán Senate

Active in political affairs. fur ... Cuban. Revolutionary Party (Autentico)

quiTe search der into on voronce regarding pro cemmunist

Havan to Chief outton & Aug 1957-subtic operation RuTuBE I

Attached pedicati com

leftist, anti-us actruity.

result.negatiue..

Originzting.officer:-

L

7. WH/3/Cuba.

L

Personzlity (a01).

_ File

1-27-58

assigned LAmHAWK. J

Request-.from WH/III/ Carib. - (H.0.

avarona.gluen #196435 and

0002451

SECRET

---

## Page 5

-5- SECRES

? 5.

Document transfer & cross-reference -

under pertinent info-stades-

"There is a restricted CIldf folder on the subject of this

201 held under CHE 64244."

(requested on

6Grant of operational Approval No C-64244, I dated Jan 20,1958

# 7- memo of conversation 1-30-58- "'Cuban Political Scene"

# 8-Dept. of state- memo of conversation 5-21-58

"Cuban Politkal Developments and Uruguayan support

for Cuban Oppositiun Resolutiun, Concerning Batista."

9 Aag "Agent and lor Project Status Sheet" (AMHAWK]

Green-listed 1260117) Aug 1957 # 76732

operatunal Approval

Requested adAny 195:

CI/GA File # C-64244.

DATE agent became actuated as member of project (name): NONE"

- memo tor record, ao July 1959 - Miscellaneous Cuban matters

re volman seeing documents in possession of Tony Santiago

proving Nunez collaburated @Batista, Numer's ass't, sosa,

hela a job in Batista gout.

memo from T. J. Flores-WHILD/AO

Request fur operational approval of varona to permit him

beingused as a "political actunagent in the fAmPATROL]

Project.

FromI

_Chief

IDES Infurmation repurt

, 3u Dea 1959,

relates: conversatien @

varona.- verona worried about

nuasion by General Jose Elentario Pedraza Cabrera

- recommenas an attempt tostpublicity to discret popular

image ofcastro.

message-trom J.D. Esterline C/wif to Hauana- vermence

3-9-60 -Uarona considered as member of 4-man group

000445318n Cuban bond issue to be floated in mopin i

141

message from Hauana - 3-9-60.

Hava 3708

AMCLATER-5 Station has learned AmitAwk Jwants to tall

accredited (PBPRImEr )about positiun it plans -

---

## Page 6

-6-

SECREL

14 (continued)

outlines varona's political platform

station has opinion that l seands 's anxiety comes from belief Rubio

8 co. already have channel toLODYOKE]d yuen't want to

be left out,

John Topping peltical after rest minded e talk

withther.st

- Braddock -

station felt direct local embassy contact @ V-dangerous.

recommend olen pass inuitation to V tu have cont. in

us. or haue peter N.Licari go tu Havana.

15-3-17-60-from tavana Cite: HAVA 3782

I Orientinat

Jorge Alonso Pujul-V's partner in Cuba-aduised y ready..

• to leave cuba. Station suggests hicari return to cuba" in

representation of the group and discuss plans like

I LANGTRY faid @LAMWAILJana/AMCHIN

16-28 Mar 1960 message from Havana

re meeting ofL AMPALMS, AMWAIL, AMHAWK JRUBIO PADILLO-

re formation of gout in exile.

requests ofIAmHAWK)in Para 3 of Haud 3108 (#14 in mynutes)

Lovoke guarantees entry of key persons, followers & suppurt.

L details included

11110083

17.

18-30 march 1960-LAmHAWk Iset 15. April as date for departure-

discusses means of getting V out.

LamHAwk/contacted byforien

19-

0002453

20.

31 mario 1960 - cable

al-re departure offAmHAWK]- want's exile goult setup int.A,country

aa. -96a Dispaten from Cos- Havana : April 1960, re "Operationel)

Santiago Babur -"' 23 march: 1960 Babun called ODALID) a see

Gerald L. Gardyne-... Introduced Orlando ACOSTA 8 Eugenio..

on Rolando martinez to

Gardyne..

Ine Babun said that

the 3 of them were in close contagiorth .

---

## Page 7

7

SECRET

Babun asked Garadyne it he kew Carlos Casaus, resides at Fosca buridina

said Casaus was atlempted to contact anti-castro elements

and claims to be a special investigatur furL ODYOKE: ]

meeting. 24 mar 1960 -Gardyne told Babun he didn't know casars.

Babun said Lombarto Diaz Rodriquez and Varona were lequing

•Cuba soon.

meeting 25 march 1960-Q 3 + DIGZ

4-6-60

23- Hava 4025 [Olen)contacted V Apri15. le departure prom

culo.

24

Q5

26. memo - 11 April 1960

le varona's entry into us,

27 April 12, 1960-101ien Jcontacted V re departure

(ItAVA Y152)

28- April 14,1960-

From Havana-[Olien]met V Aprd 13

wanted to discuss in[PBPRImE@someone who coulas peak tor

LOOPOKE This ulews on Cuban

situation. After this he would

meet with LAmwAll]

Cokenftold y he had already recerued agreement in principle

8 meeting@LAmwAIL/w only to obtain suppurt of. Figueres

for eventual establishment of locale for junta.

29- from Hauana 4221 - DA

y agreea to meetfamAIL in caracarito

proceed to san Jose @[AMWAIL in case flifleres not in cARA.

IfLAmwAILlagrees conversations will be held atEcARA fwith

ARANGO. Not necessary furl Licar ifto go either[ CARA or SANT.)

V said he was not on best terms

a Arango

but he is close

to Figueras

" & Betancourt

0002454

30

Hava 4224 - 18 April 1960- [Ollen)questioned V. re Rubiera

discussed who should be labor spokesman. U supplied names:

manuel "Manulo" Fernandez'' (see Hava 3274) "in 32676 -

•Rodriquer hominchar

Jesus Artigar

Reinal Gonzalez Gonzalez

Jesus Plana

SECRET

Cofina

Gonzalez Tellechea.

---

## Page 8

SECRET

31. From[mami J030 - 10 DIr- Ap, 18,1960 From PARLETT

Buttari meeting - wants to meet v.

Buttari complained re disorganization anti-castro effurt.

stated his sun was leaving cuba with students d

he (Butari) wanted them briefed by Bender Group.

(Bastcally, such scheme in line our phillips thinking".)

2w-sounds like a EH. Hunt message

32:

33..

34

11110002

0002455

SECRET

---

## Page 9

-9-

VOL IT

3may 60-29 June 1960

LAD/DOO

L'amawk J. wll be nut mayy- staying at st. mortz, f

¡he can get reservatiuns

2-

3-.

Armango

left wy mayy. A V leauing Nit for miami Mayo,

: 1960

5- meeting with V on 5 may-Nuc. 4:30 - 7:15 pm- memo fio

record- 6 may 1960-

by R. Reynolds DC/WH/4

varona stayed at the st. morite.

• Varona told Reynolds he

planned to go to miami on may6 and returnto Nyc un

may 8 ora, for a meeting@other cuban leaders, including

Justo carrillo, Rasco, & others.

Varona plans to use Amalio. Fiallo-as agit-prop types

RARAMELITARY

"we did not discuss this subect."" tutt because it is an areci

best beadled "in conjunction with private groups, rie. the

Carr-Bender Group."

Reynolds used the name "robert Rogers" with varadd toil

promised varuna radio-transmitles.

May

6-"The Drama of Cuba in the Americas!" by V -

1960 - 26pp.

Political Statement

Article - "Fidel Red Tool, Says Cuba Foe

la point program by u.

9-

same memo a y

10-00

message to Havara- 6 may 1960-re testimung of lgalde

Carrillo, Diaz Balart befure_

senate Internal security Subcommitee

From

J-5-6-60

13716 (IN 35a50) COS-meeting

withE HumaILy may who said he and berancourt setlled differences

tween Arango & Varona, "Pres Betancourt told I HumAIL) hat

OD4OKE] now wants to take measures against Trujillo."

SECRET

0002455

13

14

mephew - Abel de Varona Juarez

---

## Page 10

-10-

SECREL

( FOU)

sp outline of varona's policies by Ruiz sanchez-brother-in-law

(in Spanish) & english translation

sanchez gave policies tol AMCLATER-51 (probably Alberto

Alberti Garcia) to pass on tof AMHAWK. I

10..

i7-. nemo for record-contact report-meeting with Seratino Romualdi

by

_I) dated 11 may 1960-

Romauldi met @Sanchez Arango on lo may. for 3 hrs.

stated that opposition to castro growing & young element. ut the

Autentico Party under varuna is particularly strung in

Camageles and oriente provinces

18-..U's wife to, daughter arriving miami... may 1a, 1960.

19- memo for record-meeting@Guimers.lomay 1960 memoby

Sherwood N. Gebien a

..Gurmers reported on meeting with Eussbro mujal of 13 may 1960.

¡Jose Figueras & Betancourt urged Sanchez Arrango & verona to

jan in a unrteafront." vorona, with whom mujal (with Rafael otero)

had had a lengthy meeting last week in new York, told mujay?

that a n attempt will be made to issue a "manifesto" in thre

announang united front. Decided to form Frente 1819Pal

Revolutionard - as an indep. entity @ representation as the FDR.

candidate to be rep → Rafael Dero Berlaff. -confidant ot

verona E Arango.

Guimers indicated majal had recently seen Spruillo Braden again

Braden said he intended to cuntact. Allen Dulles to arrange for.

Dulles/mujal.contact-impressicn.that.cont.act. wouldbe in

wring...Seeking tunas to finance... actuities inside lubs.

Gurmers requested: 300 / munth fur Otero. Burmers requested some...

means of communication. from Cuba to Gullie Grange wanted it.

Gumers requested that. some one of our people in cuba make

the contact by using his (Gurmers!) name. This would assure sanchez.

Arange that he had a dred channel to Gurmers SECRETrough Gurners to

the us. Labor. movement."

---

## Page 11

-11-

SECRET

cable TOLIMRAND I FrumDir. Dated may a2, 1960 Cite Dir 30008

TolGalbond and Ponchay I

On 26 may meeting of V, Vargas Gomez, and Rubio Padullo.

Vand Vargas reported that meeting was fallure. Reported

to/Parlet. I Rubio took position that exceet fuRAmHANK a

he would have

nothing to do with FRD people. land vargas

felt any further dealings @Rubio = waste of time.

I-I MARE organization subject of conference -may 22, 1960 @

E Foster collins anc

C-AmWAIL 5 fready to go to mexico and arrange commo and

em trarning sites. "Have wagere. repurt from

assessment site that quote as on 30 candidates look good."

a1- Cable - 26 may 1960

Fromamiami Ito Dir.

cite miam 115

re FRO info-

- Ugongto cara maya? to issue statement-reasons for breaking @castro.

2-During Bender /exec committee meeting cubans wanted sanchez to come

to States to participate in FRD Org. Do not want sanchez in comm.

but want behind the scenes role.

31Amwallgoing to mexico in next for 4 weets to annauce breat @caste.

will took for place to train Altitifemmo uperators.

V will do same in. Venezuela.

4- Amalío Frallo, returning to cuba, to be undercover FRocoordinator.

Will return 30 days.

"'"- "considerable disagreement among our cubans de pm acture ( AmBaDe)"

ad/cove leager to move a at once and ure planes destroy sugar trelds.

AMHAWK in favor "'nuasiun" on fairly large scale from third

country. Nobody seems like our approach at moment [Parlet J

temporned and suggested I AmHAWK prepare paper. this matter

for discussion next week between L Licari (Bender amHAwk]

only. Bender might bring his "military expert" to mig. Suggestion

accepted and waters calmed."

V fAmWAIL J want immediate action against Trufillo

9-

FRD will use Rafael Otero Borlaff, fermerly @ORIT as contact

with Hemisphere labor. At Bender/V meeting he accepted

Ist monthly 88700 "honorarium" trop Bgnde60024g80 for

his chauffeur.

---

## Page 12

-12-

SECRET

ED - blank p. only- "29may 1960"

Era

@D- newspaper

article "Fidel Gust called Red Toul, Says Cuba Fue" by

"Hal Hendrix"-

statement of varona.

5-29-60 Maaminews.

@43-

@8)

26)

saar- varrived cara al May

Gave speech may at.

leter

roto a varona - spanish-t translation. - from

"Battalian No. 1 "Comandante Moreno Bravo." - probadly

Cuban Army Captain Patrocinia Est anislao Bravo y Morenc.:

undated.

MASH 0013

cable - Havana from Dir

11r.3209

5-31-60-

Reposit re conversion ot

Us pesos. states it's beiny done by Grupo Bender- MAdust books

accordingly.

@

8)

ag-

BO- TU DIr- FrOmE

June 1, 1960 4

castelon

v contacted 31 may - said ne was a June fur mexico.

V wants Castelon to meet

Arango and Salvador lamani -who is

to lead cara group. Romani - main aset of [ CIRAKE-1. J

Bit To Dir From!

(1776-2-60-559321

at may 31, meeting V had @hm manolo Alcalde Incala - works for

decor Intern) of miams - "apparently Vis right gept0ß6s

32) Cable- To dir from mAsH

6-3-60

MASH 28

"Corbuston phoned and met varona 3 June."

Brought up following points:

O Bender hupes it isn't true

that varona intends grue Hendrix

detalls. of a Jure immigration troubles. for. Publication" Vagreed.

@ varona shagreeasange exec. comm. meeting- wed diure.

Ask varona not inform Barker of Corbuston contact.

Cite Dir 33142.

-agreea

{3)

June 6, 1960 cable- To

talk withEAmHAWk foun

, I MASH.; From Director.. - Bender will

V's

activites in caracas.

0002459

SEGRETI

---

## Page 13

- 13-

34--

9 June 1960 cable To JMASt

From Dir- Cite Dir 33940

LIMNET

Roberto Alejos arriving miami ll June. Karnley's office

making reservations.

V to tak @ him - shoula tell

Alejos that

if Alejos agrees, FRD will send special rep

to Guat shortly to work out details. Alejos agreech.

35- The Drama of Cuba- in Spanish

36 -

To DIr

From (mexico City-J 7-2-60-Elite mexi 58a0 ]

June a3 Ray Leddy & Ist sec Jue muntillar interulewed V.

- had eudence LAmHAWk Junder technical surveillance &

probably physical surveillance.

"Recommend F RD leaders

be warned avoid ouert U.f. gout cuntact."

37- mASH 41ÉImNET frumParlettDre

June 8, 1960 meeting of

FRDexe. committee.

11:10007

38-

39-

40- June 13, 1960-Cabte to JMASH from Dir.

#34580

learned that thru BE ACTRESS that Eusebio Muj al organizing

Frent Sindical SLAMHAWK Inuolued. LAmHAWk blenre knowledge.

San Jose aduisea Alberto Alvarez had participated in formation

of the group when in u.s. In may. Maxwell Raab reps.org.

legally. Dina DellaLe- treasurer. LAmHAWK was said to be present

during N.%. talks. Requesting AMHAWk

bymichzerm.maney-wH/4fpRof

41-14 June June -memo for record -

subj:meeting@Cmdr.Pons on Jurell.

Pons had been attempting to recruit crew members fur maritime operation.

"sald that it was commun knowledge that varona was LIA

Vis an old friend of his and l asked Pons to join his group, Vasked

Pons if he would care to meel an American who was "afriend

of a friend of his." Pons declined. Admiral Rodriques Hernandez

is Pans cuntant in mani "Pons added that he teit the aboue

information should be brought immediately to the attention of

Mr. Abbott (Dave phillips) and would like to meet with mr. Abbott un

14 June."

ya Cable 6-20-60- To Dir From Hava HAVA 4998-

re meeting with Ruiz sanchez- on June l? {AMANTHEm Jintroduced

Edward l Knapman to Cubana Capt, Eduardo Ferrer (no relation termer

far inspector general,

43-

0002456ned ret). Ferrer arranged meeting.

SECRET

---

## Page 14

114-

DEUKEL

111100G3

44- To mexico trom Dir a3 June 1960- reservation being made fer

conference suite commodore 28 June - Julys.

Bender wants meeting @V and Carr before 3 July.

45- memo tor record a3 Jure 1960

re Romauldi & Mujal-

to the extent possible cIA assets would be used to negate

mujal's actruities.

46-Blank Page June 25, 1960 state Telegram - #3319 Re Emb. 6-247,

June ay.

47- memo for record of meeting between Gurmers, Sothern, & Gebren,

22 June 1960- memo by bebien.

mujal told Gurmers that he had been told by FBI contacts not

to allow his supporters to undertake assass plots against the

Castros, che Guevara, etc.. Mural feel tha puts him on thespot

"because it an attempt of this type is made, the FBI might

hold him responsible

and take acton

to deport him. He

then was

test assured by bumers that he could not be deported without

court action and aduised to tell the FBI to mind its own

business."

48- FromImax Cityato Dir June 29,1960-1 mex i s804 re meeting.

arrangements- flights to New York-fur V, [AMPALM-S lAMBIDDY1)

Lawrence P. Charron natured of [AmHAWk Jarrangements.

49 To director from Mexico Ciny.I(blank).

date 6-29-60

50 - 1810

51- Blank Page-"U.s. Dept of Justice FBI Inuestigation #105 - 86020

CLIP June 29, 1960.

Sa-Cable- Directur frum MASH June 30,1960

{Karnley )met @Rudy Fernandez in D.C.

and @

Fer. and Cajegas on June2t

#130

June 27.

0002454

SECRET

---

## Page 15

-23-

111100ca

SECRET

36- Cable 29 Oct 1960 From Havana to Director-- 270ct Enrique Trueba

campa was introduced to knapman buf odoath Jatt. Trueba is of f,ie

in Regil Coffee, an old classmate of Fidel Castro,- Issue immediate

PoA for usel IMNEt JIntel/P.M asset and assign No. AlY-6.

Trueba and brother, pearo, suppurting Capt. Osvaldo Ramirez

Who is unit condr anti-castro force under Mejor

Evalio Duque.

37- Cable -Oct 29, 1960-1 AmouE-1) requested station assistance to

obtain wisa tor Roberto pa Rodriquez Hevia and family. Hevia

toldI AMJuTE-1 Ithat he had been asked tu go to miami

by Rafael De J. Gonzalez who sent message through

ex-cast Enrique Dom inguez Perez- Heula claims to have

been in contact with reps of FRD and cooperating with

Antonio varona

, martin-Elena, Tomas Cabanas.

38-

cable Oct 29, 1960-LAnHaule Jinterview publishea Diario de

Las Americas 28 October. -covered unity of Anti- Castro groups

[AMRASeJopen for admission new anti-castro groupsÍ, AMRASP

not constitutes provisional gout.

39- Cable Oct 31, 1960- To Director from MAsH cite massh 335

subjects ret. picked up safely by coast guard.. cutter a

hours off tey west morning 29 oct. Cuter towed launch to

point off Boca Chica key where mast so and co met to take

custody bodies. Lauln temporarily held Coast Guard Station

Key west. main orfecers brought subjeuts maso sate house an

held until Imigration-94 documents ready morinang oct 30.

masts remaining in close touch with subjects who presently

Room 319

Unversity court motel. Began mating local

contacts Afternoon 30. Out With[ AMBIDDY1, AMHAW, )

LAMWAIL-S, martin Elena, eta

E AMRU10G-1Jstatecl intended remain mAst 3 days or" untl

confusions and muunderstanding resolved" with ref to

Radró commo, sea Dellvery, amd Air Drap problema: e

Planneda

operation pAr discussed. Main points were

recugnition signals

and selectión rendevous points. This type op

will be discutal fuether with JoBes present so that any future.

misunderstandorg cam be prevented. .

SECRETA

---

## Page 16

1111007:

402 AmHAlkIts have Nya press cunterence on do,y 4.

41- Blank Page- DBF- 6a236 dated Nouember 2, 1960

4a- meeting @ Tuny varuna at Twicker's. Apt, mam, Florida,

as oct 1960. memo fur Record dated a Nou 1960.

written by Gerard Droller-

meeting-V, Droller, Hunt- wanted uto make statement which

indicated he did not consider momselt as future president ot

Cuba nor

was the frd to be considered the future goodt of that

country.

"varona readily agreed to make this statement

which was dictated to him by Twicker and which he, varona,

gave over the telephore to sosa fur implementation"

other into-Ou's public relations consultant-u.t-use is Lem Jones -V.

doesn't like him& will discharge him.

sanchez Arango-making rounds in Chiam,"

showing that her

he had enough influence to remoue Bender from the scene."

D"st would not be difticult it it were not for Artime

who resists any detand dealings with lorie to

incorporate the alliance with FRD."'

43- Nova, 1960 cable - sen

re Enrique Llaca /Orbiz

cite mash 1404

74- Nou 3, 1960 cable

from mast - re DISCUSSIOnaL AMRUNG-1, 7

Rio or Escambray dais so ta stirs. "Did not discuss pinar del

mash. Only person fully

witting besides self and LAmyum-1 JisE Amyum)Cartographer

in Havana who trusted implicitely byfA-1 I individuals at

De's oburously knowledgeable. In this connection l A-l Hurned

over to Hava case officer complete plans sea landing zunes DZ

and other related information for passing Headquarters

re implementing preliminary phase operation."....

("A-1 Jeels (AmHAwk Jhas subuerted cause. When asked if he received

a covert shipments arms sent bylAmHAWk aboats he stated no. Upon

confranting & AmHAWK The ascertained arms cached I A.) Jwith

neluctant agreement amHawk will now be given arms cached.

LA-Jtart stated

sent representative to tava to

kill beal A-l Jout could not. (AmHAWk Istated his people

not assassins. but loyal Cubans who want countrytree."

"Landing a boats supply missions with A Deshe wil

retura leabu in mass boat sometime after periodot no

moon dA-lIwants to take W/T operator now Has with ham."

---

## Page 17

De Varona, Manuel Antonio- 201-196435

8 files

DDO

Files

Volume 1.

#Volume ;2.

15 Oct 40 to 30 Sept. 49

January 1956- April 1960

A. Biographical Information on Varona- dated 8/8/57 6pr

DOB: 11/25/08 Place: Camaguey = Cuba

Lists as friend: #**#/ Carlos Prio Socarras

Wife: Emilina Ruis Sanchez de Varona

Children: Carlos Manuel de Varona

Segura Bustamente nee de Verona

One brother: no name givent

mostly 3ra Agency material

-CRETI

11110003

1940-44

Member House of Representatives- Cuba

1944-48 Member Cuban Senate

1948-50 Prime Minister and Senator of Prio govt

1950-52 President of Cuban Senate.

Active in political affairs for cuban Revolutionary Party (PRC- Autentico) since

1934.

B. 8 Aug 1957 - Cable from Havana attaching

PRQ part 1 and states PR& II is coming.

C. 1/27/58

Varona given 201 number and assigned crypt

• p. 1/20/58 Varona granted operation approval

E. Operational approval requested 22 Aug 1957

F. 9 March 60 Varona considered as a member of 4 man group to sign Cuban bond

issue to be floated in Miami

G. I 10 March 60- Varona wants to speak to accredit United States person about

position and plans.

H. 17 March 60 Jorje Alonso Pujul, Varona's partner in Cuba, advised that

Varona is ready to leave Cuba. Station suggests that Licari go to Cuba and discuss

plans.

I. 28 March 60-

meeting in Havana re formation of governent in exile

Varona makes requests. Iisted. United States guarantees entry of key persons,

J.30 March 1960 -Varona sets April 16 as date of departure.

K Dispatch from COS, Havan, 1 April 1960. Santiago Babun called the American

Embassy on March 23, 1960 and wanted to see Gerald I. Gardyne. Babun introduced

Bardyne to Orlando Acosta and Eugenio Rolando Maritinez. Babun said that the

three of them were in close contact with Varona. #Babun asked Gardyne If he

knew Carlos Casaus who resides in the Fosca Building. Babun said Casaus was

attempting to contact anti-Castro elements and claims to be a special

investigator for the U.S. At a meeting onf 24 march 1960, Gardyne told

Babun he did not know ! Casues. Babun said that Lombarto Diaz Rodriquez and

Varona were leaving Cuba soon. Another meeting of Babun andAcosta and Rolando

on March 25.

L. Varona met with case officer in Havana, on April 13 and wanted to disucss

in U.S. with someone who could speak for U.s. govt his views on Cuban situation.

Mo Varona agrees to meet AMWAlL in Caracas and proceed to san Jose with AMWAll

in case Figures not in Caracas. Varona said he was not on best therms with

Arango, but he is close to Figueras and Betancourt.

N. Varona was questioned re Rubiera. Discussed At## who should be labor leader

or spokesman : Varona supplied names: Manuel "Manulo" Fernandez

Rodriquez Lominchar; Reinol Gonzalez Gonzalez; Jesus Plana; Jesus Artigas;

Aggel Cofino; Ignacio Gonzalez Tellechea.

Meeting on 18 April 1960

0. April 18, 1960 cable from Parlett- Miami- • Reports meeting with Buttari

who wants to meet Varona. Buttari complained about lack of organization.

Stated his son is leaving Cuba with students and he wanted them briefed by

Bender group.

EGRET

---

## Page 18

Page 2

SEGREN

11120033

P. Contact Report- by Gerald Droller- dated Dec 27, 1960. Met with Varona in t

Miami with Hunt. Varona reported he had found an isolated piece of land on Andros

Island, Bahamas which could be used as a training site for 100 men.

"Varona discarded the idea. (Comment: I would bet even money that he will

pursue this aspect unilaterally.)"

Q. Memo of conversation, 11/29/60 Varona had meeting with Edwin E. Vallon, Robert

A. stevenson, Robert a. Hurwitch, and Frank J. Devine. Requested funds,

stated that florida law entorcement was geting stricter, impatient. listed other

members of forces working aginst Castor.

Aureliano Sanchez Arango;

Luis conte Aguero, radio cannouncer and commentator in Cuba; Pedro Duiz Diaz Lanz

Manolo Ray, Andres Vargas Gomez; AREC- rich Cuban businessmen and property owners

i a cubala

busine a rand one to

is prepared to se

him in NY on April 30 or lay 1. Cable dated April 28, 1960

#.

Volume 3, 3 # May 1960 to 29 June 1960

A. V. is to be in NY on May 4 and will stay at the St. Morttz if he can

get reservations.

V. is leaving NY for Miami on May6

B. Meeting with V. on May 5. memo for record dated 6 May by R. Reynolds

V. told Reynolds he planned tô go to Mimi on May 6 and return to NYC on May

8 or 9, for a meeting with other Cuban leaders, including Justo Carrillo,

Rasco, and others. Varona plans to use Amalio Fiallo as agit-prop type.

Reynolds a states that they did not discuss paramilitary subject

because "it is an area best be handled 'in conjunction with private

groups, i.e. the Carr-Bender group." Reynolds used the name Robert

B. FroM

75/6/60, 1 1B716 I$#$ Meeting tith HUMATI 4 May

hot said he and Betancourt seetled differences between Arango and Varona

"Pres. Betancourt told HUMAIL that ODYOKE now wants to take measures

against Irujillo."

C. V's nephew- Abel de Varona Juarez

D. Memo for record. Meeting with Guymers, 16 May 1960 Memo by Sherwood

N. Gebien.

Guymers reported on meeting with Mujal of 13 May • Figueras

and Betancourt urged Arrango and V to join in a united front. "Varona,

with whom Nujal (with Rafael Otero) had had a lengthy meeting last week

In New York, todd Mujal* that an attempt will be made to issue a

manifesto in June."

...

A candidate to representative on Frente was

Rafael Otero Berlaff- described as a confidant of V and Arrango.

Guimers indicated Mujal had recently seen Spruillo Braden again. Braden

said he intended to contact Allen Dulles to arrange for Dulles/#### Mujal.

contact. Impression was given that contact would be in writing. Guimers

requested 300/month for Otero.

E. Cable to JMRAND form Dir dated 5 May. To Galbond and Ponchay. JMARC

organization subject of conference on May 27, 1960 with Foster Collins

and

AMWAIL%5 1s ready to go to Mexico and arrange COmmo and

PM training

sites.

SEGRET

---

## Page 19

Page 3.

SECREL

F. Cable dated 26 May 1960 from Miami to Dir. Cite Miam 115. V going to

Caracas on May 27 to issue statement containing reasons for break with

Cuba. AMWAIL going to Mexico in next 3 or 4 weeks to announce break

with Castro. He will look for place to rain 20-40 commo operators. V.

will do thesame in Venezuela. Amalio Fiallo will be returning to Cuba

to be an undercover FRD coordinator. "considerable disagreement among our

Cubans re PM activities. AMBIDDY/ QD/COVE eager to move at once and use

planes destroy sugar fields. V in favor 'invasion' on fairly large scale

from thira country. Nobody seems like our approach at moment. Parlett

temporized and suggested V prepare paper this matter for discussion next

week between Licari/Bender/ V. only. Bender might bring his military

expert' to mtg. Suggestion accepted and waters calmed." V. and AMWAIL

want immedicate action against Trujillo. FRD will use Rafadl Otero

Borlaff, formerly with ORIT as contact with Hemisphere labor. At Bender-

kVarona meeting, V accepted

first monthly 700 honorarium from Bender and

200 for his chauffeur.

*G. Newspaper article

"Fidel called Red Tool, Says Cuba foe" article is

by Hal Hendrix. Contains statement made by Varona. DAte 5/29/60- Maimi

news.

H. To dir from

June 1, 1960_

5230- V. contacted Castelon on

31 May. V. wants Castelon to meet Arango and Slavador Romani who is to

lead th Cara group. Romani is the main asset of CIRAKE-1.

I. To dir from

dated June 2, 1960| 5232- A, May 3I meeting, Varona

had with him Manolo Alcalde ##p# Incala who works for

"Decor International

in Miami- "apparently V's right hand man."

J. Cable to Dir form MASH dated 6/3/60 MASH28 "Corbuston phoned and met

with Varona 3 June." Brought up the following points: Bender hopes it

isn't true that Varona intends give Hendrix details of 2 June immigration trouble

#* for Publication. Varona agreed. Varona should arrange exeg. Committee

meeting for wed June 8. Asked that Varona not inform Barker of

orbuston

contact.

Ko To Dir from Mexico City dated July 2, 1960 cite Mexi 582nere u5° 23

Ray Leddy and fist sec. Joe Montillar interviewed Varona.

evidence that V. is under technical survellance and probably phisical

survelllance. "recommend FRD leaders probably be warned avoid overt

1111010)

U.S. govt contact."

I. Cable to JMASH from Director dated 6/13/60 #34580*

learned thru #

International Organization Division (IOD) that Mujal

organizing Frente Sindical and V. is involved. V. denies knowledge. San

Jose advised that Alberto Alvarez had participated in formation of the

group. Maxwell Raab represents organization legally. Dina Dellale-####if

treasurer.

V. was said to be present during NY talks.

M. Memo for record dated june 14, 1960 by Michael M.Maney. Subj: meeting

with Corim. Pons on June Il. Pons had been attempting to recruit crew members

on hat bao

for maritime opeaations." Pons said that it was common knowledge that v

was CIA. Varona is an old friend of his and V asked Pons to join his

group. V asked pons if he would care to meet and American who was "a

friend of a friend of his." pons declined. Admiral Rodriques Hernandez is

Pons contact in Miami. "Pons added that he felt the abave information should

be brought immediately to the attention of Mr. Abbott (Dave Phillips) and

would like to meet with Mr. Abbott on 14 June.

SECRET

---

## Page 20

Page 4

SECREL

C ble dated 6-20-6e To dir from Hava. On June 17 AMANTHEM

introduced Edward D. Knapman to Cubana Capt. Eduardo Ferrer.

O. To Mexico from Dir,

23 June 60. Resersations being made for donferecne

suite Commodore 28 June-5 July. Bender wants meeting with V and #Carr before

3 July.

P. Memo for record of meeting between Guimers, Sothern, and Gebien. June 21

Mujul told Guimers that he had been told'by FBI contacts not to allow his

supporters to undertake assassination plots against the Castros, Che

Guevara, etc. Mujal feels this puts him on the spot "because if an attempt

$f this type is made, the FBI might hold him responsible and take action to

deport him. He then was assured by Guimers that he could not be deported

without court action and advised to tell the FBI to mind its own business."

11110101

SECREM

---

## Page 21

CREW

Volume 4, 1 * July 2 1960 to 30 sept 1960

1. Memo for Chief WHD

Subj: Burke Hedges from Esterline C/WH/ 4;

1 July 1960. Mr. Droelt Droller met with V. in N.Y.C. for 2 her hour

Droller mett laid down firm line that Hedges had no place in the

operation. V. objected cos Hedges was an old friend.

rash do cable crou Massh to Havana, attached 1s letter for "Ralp

Messages A

were not read.

3. Routing slip stating message opened by TSS and copies forwarded

Hava and Mash In UFGW # 19

4. To aped to documentation he not dougesport pacture of V. Ned

5. 1 TO JMASH from Dir. 7-11-60 # FBI reported Mrs. Catherine

Taafe said on 16 June V contacted her and wanted to seeher. Requests

Corbuston warn V about st

Taaffe

6. Memo to Director from J.E. Hoover dated June 29, 1960 re CLIP

relates Taaffe story of V. call.

T. V. said 12 July he does not know and has never heard of Taffe

8. July 14, 1960 cable from MASH to Dir. #0206 V and AmBIDDY 1 have

submitted names of 70 people now residing MASH for candidacy

second phase training. recruitment can produce 100 by 1 Aug.

9. JUly 24, 60 cabde from Havana to Dir. States Ref B. (HAVA 4174

In 26983) identifies AMHAWK-2. Ref C contained POA his use as AM

HAWK cutout with station. Ref C is DIR 30207

OUT 76577)

10. To dir. From Havana July 20, 29= 1960 - On 19 July DI mario

Del Canal Ferrer who described himself as principal rep and coordina

tor for AMHAWk contacted pol. officer John Topping and indicated

he would k like discreet contacts with the Embassy since contacts

now established through AMHAWK-2 (Ralph, and Juan Menendez Tellez

were not suificient.

Station disturbed that indiscret approch

made to Embassy revealling that covert channel existed to

WAMHAWK. Aske if AMHAWK 2 is to be eliminated.

ricetters in Spanish to Francisco Jose from Dr. Bashlines; 12110102

Patricia from Eugenio and from Eugenio to Ralph.

Indicates messages in ll were from V.

13)

July 25 60 AMHAWK 2 is Jesus Exposito Lorenzo

SECRET.

---

## Page 22

No Seat

14. Memo for Record re Telephone Call from Jack Malone from

Roberthynolds

26 Jly 60

Malone reported that V whad asked

acres of aland.

Malone will instruct Tash to go to Andros

and let Malone know what comes of trip.

15

16.July 28, 60 to Dir from MASH. AMHAWK claims Fernandez has worked

with him. Said name kVargas Gomez probably given by Fernandez since

felt Vargas in U.S. and couldn't be touched by Fidel.

17. july 28, 60 V. said Amhawk 2 is his contact with Olien . Mario

del Canal is head man and general coordinator in cuba for amhawk's

- Sun

group. code aname Patricio. V. Menendez tellez is man

who put amhawk in

touch with Olien.

19. Amhawk says hell be in D.C. for 5

ug meeting with pepep

People to People committee.

Be in N.Y. 6 Aug and will call

Bender. Will be in Maimi aug 6.

20. Corespondence from Havana, Ralph, to V. Aug 6, 1960. In

Spanish.

21.

To Dir from MASH Aug 10, 1960 V. stated that AMRASP i:

lot flexible enough in its personnel policies; needs a leader

& Bender Is too stingty. Bender group wants AMHAWK as Chairmar

It common talk Miam that ans

hard up. Parlett believes trat

time ripe begin funding Miam Amralp activities out of agreed

$131,000 per month.

Beginning sept all funding to be hanaled

via MexiBo. Pleas be sure twicker has cash and Swiss acoount availa

ble upon his arrival Mexi.

22. V arrived in Maimi from Mexi Aug 18.

23 Message from Mex. to Director, Aug 19, 1960 V plans on trip

to I.A. for press conference Aug 19.

24. V arrived Miami on 18 August with a 2 day visitor visa and

26. M Spanish letters to AmHAWK from cuba.

27. A 25 Aug. AMHAWK tleephoned from Mexi to Alonzo Pujal

in NY to akk him get in touch Licari to check on Aug report.

Agency does not want l to uses Licari's name on such matters-

serious security implications.

(28

From Director to Mexico JMASH, Aug 25, 60. Cite Dir 47292-

"FYI: During AMHAWK recent visit PRPRIME he reportedly solicited

funds LAS VEGAS gamblers. Suggest at your discretion you probe

report.

29 Letter from V to Bender requesting secure residence permemit

in U. S. Min for Mr. and Mrs. Jose J. Garcia, Mr. and Mrs

Carlos Rosello, and MR. and Mrs Roberto Solis.

will be

representatives from West. Live in Spark, Nevada. dated

Aug 26, 2960

11110103

---

## Page 23

Presume

jami

SECRET

V. planning to return to Mu becaise of problems in Mex

Aug 31-

SEpt 1,

• recalls NYC meeting when Parlett raised

issue of independent party with amhawk to latters embarrassment.

i youre this same group referred to. Amhawk radio program

WRescate would support this.

32. Re AMHAWK unilateral readio activity. Want it to cease.

33. Memo for the record from Paul J. Marson,

Fake Sub ject

"VIews of AMWAIL3 on Current Cuban Exile ASituation." Dated SEipt,

6. Feels V. should be chosen as chairman of AMCIGAR.

34. /Blank pate "U.S. Dept of Justice FBI Investigation,

1969 Cuban Political Activities Internal Security-Cuba, Sept 12,

35. Varona arrived Mut from Mexico by aircraft during the early P.M.

on 14

• Sept.

1960; Subject was planning to remain in New York

for 2 days. 17

1960 subject planning to proceed to 115

Venetian Way, San Marina, Florida.

(Memo to Droller dated Sept 15)

Memo from Joseph F. Langan.

36. Caple Sept 16, 1960 IO Dir from Mash #0727 "SOSA told Bender

Gupton of AMHAWK's strongest desire return Cuba sonnest. Wondered

whether Bender would furnish AMHAWK necessary support once inside.

Bender replied emphatially in affirmative, pointing out that this

would be excellent step not only for AMHAWK's own political

ambitions but also for AMRASP prestige as whole. ..."

37. I Contact Reprt, dated Sept 22, 1960 - Meeting with Tony Varona,

Pine Cottage, Coral Gables on Sept.17, 1960 • Memo te written by

Droeler.

"I. GUPT©Minterpreted this meeting for the undersigned."

Verona wanted to see Droller becaste of his possible withdrawal from

the EXCOM and his early return to Cuba. Drodler thinks its a

good idea for Varona to return to Cuba. Suggests to him that

he submit to me a most detailed statemant as to the support ne

thought he needed from Bender and that after this planning phase

this matter could be discussed more intelligently, more concretely,

and in more definitive terms.. Varona advised he was going to

N.Y. on evening of the l8th and he would call and arrange another

meeting.

Sept 27, 1960- Cable to Dir from Mash. MASH # 0830-Jerry W. Brler,

Pres. Sears Roebuck, Cuba advised had been approached by

Manuel Rodriquez to serve as alternate courier FRD CUBA and

FRD Miami. Rodriquez said he is intermediary between FRD and

recuperation in Cuba for mutual support coordination both

groups. He travels Havana-Miami about three times per month

and meets Frank Zayas and or Tony Varona to give and receive'

plans and intructions.

39. Contact eport 30 Sept 1960- Meeting with the Executive Committe

27 Sept. 1960 in La Moderne Motel, Coral Gables. Gupton and I met

withCommittee minus Sanchez Arango, Informed that Varana had been

appointed as General Coordinator of the Frente.

11710204

SECRET

---

## Page 24

$8

SPORET

Cont

40- Meeting with Tony Varona, 27 Sept. 1960, Coral Gables. Contact #

Report written by Droller. "Gupton and Bender met with Varona at the

latter's request in private. Varone brought me up to date on events

which had taken place after his and Carrillo's meeting with Hunt

and me in washington (see Hunt's memorandum for the record in Contact

Repiet file)."

41. Blank Pate "U.D. Dept of Justice FBI investigation July 13, 1960

Ro: Gederico Fernandez Casas

11110105

SEGREI

---

## Page 25

$9

SECRET

Volume 5 Tony Varona.

1 Oct 1960 to 30 Dec 1960

1.

2. Meeting with Tony Varona, La Moderne Motel, Coral Gables, 20 Sept

1960.

Contact Report, dated 3 Oct 1960.

Written by Gerald Fd

Droller.

States that Gupton and I met with Varana. "I told Varona that a

Awe would send in the future certain equipment into Cuba. If

everything went well, I would inform him and the FRD could take

the credit. If something went wrong, the FRD, however, would

have to take the blame."

3. Cable from Dir to JMASH dated 3 Oct. 1960 with instructions that

AMHAWK be reminded

by Gupton

wei Sosa.

that affiliates of AMRASP are to be run

vIa

of

4. Memo for record, dated 4 Oct 1960, Subj. IReport fe Contact with

Alberto Roque.

By Bernard N. Reikhardt.

Rogue lists dangers of

appointing Varona he General Coordinator of FRD. Roque is

interested in MDC, and promoting Rasco.

5. Cable dated Oct 4, 1960 To Director from Havana Ref: MASH 0863

(In 20346) States that AMHAWK is pleased with Ref operation.

Boat returned Hava without difficulties. V. now ready to

exfiltrate following as soon as possible. List includes Jose:

ose Orimuela Torra- nephew of Miro Cardona. , Lt. Armanc

Gerra Iglesias,

and It. Nicolas R. Vaan. Who have info c

sovient technicians stationed San Antonio de Los Banos and

Mangua.

6. Cable from JMMASH to Dir dated

ct 5, 1960. MASH 0936. States t

what first Twicker Amhawk meeting since V. assumed post of genera

coordinator. Agreed that w Twicker will maintain normal contact:

with V and other AMCIGAR members plus Sosa and Paula. Also has right

discuss opinions with departmental Chiefs. Gupton and Enzel

WIll contine contacts to Departmental Chiefs with whom they

have been working plus Sosa. Also, no PBPRIMER should make

specific commitments to any Cuban without prior consultation with

Amhawk. Comment: believe above is reasonable "

practical terms none of above intended curtain burreliduction

or relationships."

7. 7 Oct 1960 cable to director from Havana. Cite Hava 6439

eport of Goddon M. Biniaris from AMCALL 1 reports that Arango ha

withdrawn from the FRD.

ruston Carillo and Felipe Pazo

• Will be integrated ino Manuel IRay's MRP. Varona espressed

desire to join MRP but Ray insists Varona retaun to Cuba before

being accepted.

8. Memo pe for record, dated 6 Oct. by Droller (C/WHj4/PA) re tz

phone call from Ricardo Lorie.

9. Cable from MASH to Director dated Oct 6, 1960. AMHAWK considering

mg Bogata as AMRASP hemisphere propaganda distribution point.

Iwicker indicated tacit acquiesence, but Meigs-feels this would

provide undesirable echelon between AMRSP HOS' and its national

branches.

---

## Page 26

-20-

10. To Director Brom JMASH dated 6 Oct

Cite 0957 MASH

AMHAWK alleges two cubana pilots and navigator who fly

Castro on International Ilights ready defect and desires

offer them equal pay as inducement.

"4. FBY: If Pilots

really fly Castro this opens other opnl possiblltties."

11. Blank page- FBI Memo dated October 3, 1960- Subject:

Frente REvolucionario Democratico. Internal Security

Cuba.

12. Cable Oct 8, 1960 from MASH to / Director. Hunt believes

will repeat will do his utmost in new post and suggest

hat in this difficult initial period we assume attitude

of watchiul waiting and see whether V ean produce, without nagging

ey and otherwise diverting him from current critical

problems. Via Amclatter 1 Twicker (Hunt) becoming

familiar working level matters AMRASP and this will

provide check on V activity and performance

43,

To director from MASH Cable- dated Oct 8, 1960.

AMHWK apparently interested mounting PM ops as political

favor his contacts Cuban exile community who nog willing

affiliate AMRSP but desirous utilize AMHAWK claims access arms

source with tacit acquiescence ODYOKE. On Oct 4 Sosa

asked Gupton arrante meeting with Enzel at which Sosa

utilizeing Agerto Fernandez Exhevarria and AMNORM- Nino

Oct 6, Sosa made direct pitch for Enzel hand over

small amount arms. Claimed AMHAWK in contact with unnamed

individual who owns small plane which has made two flights from

Florida in alast two weeks to make arms delivery endte Dugue group

in Escambray. Enzel tactifully refused this request on grounds

complete ops detail must b3 forthcoming prior to arms trun over.

Basic element of interest above is AMHAWK willingness break own

AMRASP admin channels.

14. Cable from JMMASH to Director , dated Oct 12, 1960. DRE has

Barquin Canterio, DOB Aug 8 1942; Carlos de Varona y Segura,

DOB 29 Une 1941 (son of Tony); Miguel A. Carcia R Armengo,

born 1 Nov 1938.; Manuel Salvat Roque. Alberto Muller y Quintand.

15. Memo for Record, Report of contact with Alberto Roque,

Oct 13, 1960. by B.E. Reichhardt

16. Cable from

to Director dated Oct 15, 1960. Arango has lef

t FRD and joining with Diaz Lanz groups. Persons representing

Dr. Rolando de Rojas Gonzales, representing Varona, Dr.

Frank Marinez Piedra, representing RC, Dr. Jose F. Caragol, rep-

resenting Artime, Dr. Julian Arias, representing Sanchez, Dr.

Diaz.

Also states William Morgan is reported to be have

taken to

Escambray hills. (Handwritten after this statement "JAIL")

11010107

SECRET

---

## Page 27

SECRET

17. Cable dated Oct 15. Luis Morales Ortega granted tourist visa,

U.S. V's chaffeur.

18. Estevez del pino is V's anna dar rep in Venezuela.

19. Cable Oct 17 from Director to JMASH. Twicker urged exert

strongest pressure on V to deliver all material his possession

immedicately. Twicker to inform V ODYOKE demands from

Twicker immedicate turnover. WH comment : Reported certain'

materical being hand-carried Washington.

20. Contact report dated Oct 17 • Subj. meéting with QDCOVE, Columbu

s, Hotel, Florida on Octet

showed him a t telgram he had received from Rojas for transmittal

to V.

Whicker should ascertain, without involving the source,

what HAMHAWK is up to in connection with British-owned real

estate. QDCOVE asked

whether we could be of assistance to

inflitrate one of his men, FNU, CRESPI.

21. Contact Report- Oct 17- by Wallace A. Parlett. Subject:

meeting with ANSLAWI, Columbus Hotel, Florida. ANSAW I was

to leave for Paris the evening of 14 Oct where he wanted to

persuade AMECRU-1 to return to the U.S. in order to begin and

carry out the important work of a "behind the secenes

collaborator" with AMRASP. Is that alright with Parlett? It

is alright with AMHAWK with whom this matter had been cleared.

I answered in the affirmative.

22. FRD delegate in BOgota is Marino Sorondo Quintana

included large sum for work inside Cuba which Bender group

from Cuban sources and use them inside Cuba. V. reports

increasing difficulties in collecting pesos inside Caba and states

that

pesos, a large portion, were going to Manuel Ray. V

requests budget increase by 25,000 $ monthly

24.

Contact Report- Oct 18, 1960- Subj. Meeting with AMHAWK

13 Oct. 1960 in a very hot car near the Miami airport. By

Wallace A. Parlett.

# V. requested that we supply him with

arms and not inquire into the details of how he would dispose of

these arms. He said he had a plane at his disposal. He could

deliver the material inside Cuba. As he had confidence in us, '

we should have confidence in him. A revolution can not be wone

through bureaucratic means. Nothing ventured, nothing gained.

No commitment was given. Told him that he would Hear from

Hunt about it.

25. Cable Oct 19. From JMASH to Dir. "Having rebuked V on

17 Oct for raid's endangering lives of Americans in Cuba,

Twicker on 18 Oct told V that material still not accounted

for. V. at once began taking steps recover same. FBI: # V

understands material essential and manifested no resistnace to

delivering any balance locatable. On basis Iwicker interview no

reason believe any key materials purposely withheld, although

"sourenirs" may have been retained by members raiding party.

11130103

SECRF

---

## Page 28

2a12 SECREL.

26.

Cable Oct 19 from Havana to Dir. Gerardo Rafael Alvarez Claims

mas close connections with 300 man resistance group in Matanza who ready

aly to fight but need arms and ammo. Group connected with

Jorge and Fa Rafael Fundora. Sampedro close friends with William

Erler. Also claims to known V.

27. Dispatch to Chief of WH Division re Anti Castro Gaoups and m

JMARC Reports a meeting with Carlos Hevia

and Lowell H. Lunger on 1 Dec. 1960. Hevia reiterated his

personal desires not to become closely involved with asmamber of

any Cuban exile group but intended solely to use his influence and

contacts to determine just what is being done or not done amongst

anti-Castro organizations•

Knorn V. for many years.

28. Oct20, 1960 cable. Indicates V is in New York.

29. Oct 20, 1960 Cable From Havana to Dir. AMHAWK 2 request that

V be personally notified that Lomberto La Caridad Diaz Rodriquez 9

Will arrive Marathon, Florida 21 Oct aboard the "See Bee" Purpose

is consultation with V. Mash requested arrange arrival and

departure boat so as to leave no reoord and avoid all apublicity.

30. Cable Mash to Director- Oct 21, 1960 V agreed to make

statement ofor the cause to press on Oct 23 at a meeting with

Labor leaders in NYC.

31. Oct 21, 1960 Oct 20 meeting with V. and Miro Cardona. Cable.

Miro accepted post of secretary general for PR. OI AMRADe and

Unill receive hislunds on that basis.

32. Oct 22, 1960 Cable- From MASH

re History of IRD labor

affiliate. Sosa took initial steps organize labor affiliate in

Miami. Another group formed in NY.

Both merged to form

Frente Obrero Revolucionario Democratico (FORD). Under original

Bender AMHAWK agreement where MASH was to direct and fund all

affiliates including FORD, MASH wokked thru SOSA get labor

show on road. But Amrawk repudiated original agreement becasue of

alleged interference with internal affairs of FRD for dealing

3, ott 25

directly with affiliates.

33. Oct 24 Cable # From MASH to Dir. M Iwicker phoned at hotel

Buckingham NYC and queried V re statement to press noting that

Hunt had not seen it published. V said that his speech 23 Oct

at Hotel Empire to crowd of 600 had included the statement but

he did not yet know extent press coverage. Added he now editing

a press handout, presumably with Lem Jones, which would contain

the statment plus other points. FYI: American voice answered

phone in AMHQWK room. When identity queried V said only that person

was "a friend." Could have been Lem Jones man or even the alleged

State Dept (in quotes) contact who purpottedly advised V against

making the statument.

(343Oct 25 Cable Irdm Dir to JMASH- Jones said State Department man

was really rep of Senate Investigation Committee in touch AMHAWK

thru Senator Snathers.

11110503

---

## Page 29

z2 13

3). CabLe from Dir to MASH and JMHOPE, dated 26 Oct.

" Iwo independent sources report AMHAWK boat is rebroadcasting hope

• programs. Specifically mentioned was "Prensa Libre" Show. Doublech

ecked. Both Monitors insist report valid. Unauthorized clandestine

rebroadcasting hope programs jeopardizes tremendous CIA investment.

V'action will not be tolerated. Twicker will emphatically direct

v. stop forthwith. Advise HQS soonest V compliance above instruction

For Corbuston: Is Carbo providing V with Dubplicate tapes of

Prensa Libre Program? If so prohibit immediately." Cit dir 08219

36. Cable Oct 28, 1960. Meeting of Bender and arango Sanchez. Sanch

ez is to submit specifies for help to his org to Jim smith and

to remain in contact with Bender. Parlett believes above leaves

door open to either work with Sanchez or neutralize him.

36. #Cable from Havana to Dir dated 29 Oct 1960. On 27 Oct Enrique Trueba

Camba was introduced to Knapman by odoath att. Trueba is officer in Regil3

Coffee, an old classmate of Fidel Castro- issue imediate #POA for use

JMNET Intel/M asset and assign No. 214-G. Trueba and brother, Pedro,

supportin Capt. Osvaldo Ramirez who is unit condr. anti-Castro force under

Major Evallo Duque.

37. Cable Oct 29, 1960- AMJUE-I requested assistance to obtain visa for

Roberto Rodriguez Hevia And family. Hevia told AMJUTE l that he had been

asked to go to Miami by Rafael De J. Gonzalez who ss nt message through ex-capt

Enrique Dominguez Perez- Hevia claims to have been in contact with reps

0f FRD, and #*# in contact with Varona, Marin-Elena, Tomas Cabanas.

38. Cable Oct 31, 1960 Io Dir from MASH Cite MASH 335 ?

"Subjects ref.

picked up safely by Coast Guard cutter 2 hours off Key west morning

29 Oct. Cutter towed launch to point off Boca Chica Key where MASH &6

and CO met to take custody bodies. Launch temporarily held Coast Guard

Sation Key f, West. Maim officers

brought subjects MASH safe house and held

until Imigration-l4 documents ready morning Oct 30. MASH remaining in

Close contact with subjects who presently foom 319 University Court Motel.

Began making local contacts Afternoon 30

et with AMBIDDY-1, AMHAW, AMWAIL-5

•#Martin-Elena, etc. AMRUNG I stated he intended remain Mash 3 days or

"until confusions and misunderstanding resolved" with ref to Radio Commo,

Sea Delivery, and Air drop porblems. Planned operation PAT discussed.

Main points were recognition signals and selection rendevous points. This

tipe op will be discussed futther with JOBES present so that any futhre

misunderstanding can be prevented.

39. V to have NYC press conference on Nov 4.

11/10123

40. Meeting with Varona at Hunts's apt, Miami, 25 Oct 1960. Memo forrecord dated

2Nov. ##*# by Droller.

Meeting of V. Droller, Hunt. They wanted V to make

statement which indicated he did not consider himself as futhre pres. of

Cuba nor was the FRD to be considered the futhre govt. Hunt dictated the

statement to Varona. V. gave it over the phone to sosa for implementation.

V's public relations consultant in NY is Lem Jones. V doesn't like hims

and will discharge him.

41. Cable dated Nov 3 from MASH re discussions with AMRUNG-1. Mr I

JMASH Case officers. " Did not discuss Pinar del Rio or Escambrey

DZ's with NYONE(f) MASH. Only person fully witting besides self and AMTUM-1

1s AMYUM cartographer in Havana who trusted implicitly by A-I individuals at

Dz's obviosuuly knowledgeable. In this connection A-l turned over to HAva

case officer complete plans sea landing zones DZ and other related

intoramtion for passing Headquarters re implementige, preliminary phase operation

---

## Page 30

2814

FORET

A-l feels Varona has subserted cause. When asked if he received 2 covert

shipments arms sent by fy Varona boats he stated no. Upon confronting

V. he ascertained arms cached. A-l with relactant agreement V will now

be given arms cached. A-1 stated V. sent representative to Hava to kill

A-1 but could not. V. stated his people not assassins but loyal illubans

who want Country free."... "Landing 2 boats supply missions with A-1 who will

return Cuba In MASH boat sometime after perbod of no moon. A-l wants to take W/T

operator now HQS with him"

1111013:

SECRET

---

## Page 31

207, 15-

SECRET

45. Dispatch Oct 28, 1860 from Charles D or B

Wiesinger to Chief

of Western Hemispher Division from Chief of Base JMASH.

Oon 3 Oct

1960 Jesus Rodriquez and y Moreno (A-11-877-276) appeared at

ODURGE office and requested passport, Indicated he was returning

to Cuba on a special mission for Tony Varona. Returning to

coordinate counter revoluationary activities in the Pinar

del Rio to Havana area. UH UFGA 228.

46.

4 Nov 1960 Cable requesting that JMASH Urge AMHAWK that

arbitrary action in No 45 (above) could prove counter productive.

Instruct him that all futbre plans this type will be coordinated

prior implementation.

47. Cable to Dir from MASH dated 4 Nov 60 Lists salary

scales for Mexi delegates who are Rolando Rojas, Jose

Caragol, Roberto de Varona, Amaro Alvarez, Julian Arias

Lazaro Diaz, Rodriquez It Fleitas. AMRASP not paying salaries.

Assume ORRISON making payments.

48. Cable dated Nov 5, 1960 from MASH stating Z on Nov 3 V

had told Hunt that V had received info that Manolo Ray wanted

to leave Cuba and was to be exfiltrated by Bender group.

49. Cable dated Nov 5, 1960 to Dir from Havana. Humberto

Conrado Rodriquez Saborit will replace Jose Amado Chavez

Ger+

Guerra. Saborit is Chief Action/ Sabotage element in

AmhaWK group and sought by DIER.

Piscis departing

Nov 6.

50. Cable to Dir from Mash dated Nov 7. On Nov 5 AMPALM-5

gave+w++

WIcker memo or conversation recently sustaine

in SANJ with Jose FIgaeres.

igueres old friend of Arang

Sanchez. Equal freindship or esteem for V. Figures said

if he could bring about Arango's reintegation in FRD, he would

try to do so.

51. Cable from Mash to Dir, Dated Nov T. At Hunt's request

Amadeo Barletta Jr. arranged staged interview 6 Nov with

As result V issued unequivocal statement disavowing anu 111111 i

connection between his current post and that of provisional

presidency.

Cable from Mash to Dir dated Nov 9, 1960. V hired

Adeeb, Osborne and McClaney punlic relations firm, 100

Biscayne Ave, Miami. " Firms assistance accepted by V without

compromise of any kind."

33. Cable Nov I Hunt told V that Corbuston would assume

full responsibility for payment of slaries, maintencace, travel,

rents, ete for FRD afiliated.

Cable MASH to Dir. Nov 9 Answere to request of V

verification in ordering counter revolutionary activities in

Cuba via several Individuals directly. V cannot verify as

does not know subject nor alleged operation. Handwritten from

ref- Rodriguez y Moreno

Note on bto bottom of page

Hoez+

Juey?- From what"I have read lately it looks like the

Hawk is acting independently. Was this discussed with him?

It's probably to Jerry Droller.

SEGRET

---

## Page 32

11/10113

25, 16

SECREL

55. Cable dated Nov 9 to Dir. V did not attand NYC meeting slleged

Ly heald by Miro, Aguero, Mestre, Ameer, etc. ( to Mash's knowledge)

56. 1 Cable to Director from Havana dated Nov 10, 1909 Clark

C. Wyatt, former pres of Burrus Flour Mills introduced Olien to

Hbaldo Mario Pascual Alvarez, usually known as Mario Pascual Alvarez, also

ario Alvarez, argentine citizen.

Alvarez is coordinator for Union Nacional

Democratica based in Miami whose principal leaders are Pepe de la Torriente,

Luis Penelas, Andres Vargas Gomez,

and Commandante Jorge Diaz. Alvarez

has been trying to bring about amalgamation of opposition groups, specifically

Accion Cuban, MAR and Rescate group who follow kV.

57. Cable, dated Nov 10. To Havana from Dir. Manuel Ray in conversation with

Bender claims Padilla his asset.

Ray had planned time defection of one Isle

of Pines Garrison to conincide liberation Matos. Ray thought Isel of Pines

could become significant base mip mil ops.

"For number reasons which primarily

political and to be reported by separate message, our relations with Ray group

strained. For Mash: To free Huber Matos via AMHAWK (AMRASP) and attmepts stir

Matos into Amrasp camp of course of much significance do JMARC objectives

generally and AMPRASP prestige specifically.

58. Cable Nov 14. To Dir from JMASH- Amhawk to arrive D.C. Nov 15 for

consulatation with Guatemalen kAmbassador to USA and OAS with whom he in

telephonic contact.

Hopes secure collective OAS action against Cuba and

failing that discuss GUAT declaration war aginst Cuba. V feels Guat should decl

are war aginat Cuba then eft request USA military aid. At this point V would

send Cuban volunteers to Guat from foll countries: USA 300, Costa Rica 2* 50,

Panama 100; Hondoras, 25-50; and from Venezuela and NYC an undetermined number.

Would unite with FRD trainees now in Guat camps and with Guat or USA assist

ance be transported to Cuba to open a combat front.

(59) Cable Nov 15. AMYUMS reported two sucessful drops to Evelio DUque Forces

on Nov 3 and I1 by V using #Cessna aircraft. Drop consisted of 60 machine guns.

60. Nov 16 cable from MASH to dir stating response the request for Iwicker

exploration re planning PM activities outside AMRASP. No Known independent

AMHAWK PM activities.

61. Hunt counseled AMBIDDY] and AMPAIM 1 on Nov 15 to lend fullest support to V

62. Blank page- DBF 62658 dated 16 Nov 1960

63. Map of locations in Mexico - hand arget drawn. with a report by Roberto

de Varona Loredo, executive member of AMRASP Mexico City Delegation. (Dispatch)

Map indicates locations for various staging areas in Mexico. for military

training camps.

64.

Cable to JMASH frO Dir datedal Nov 10 ?

Jose Manuel Brana Duran Claims

affiliation 100 man GW force in C maguey commanded by Capt Orlando Orozco.

Claimed group apolitical and had'blessing of V.

65. Blank pate- Letter from Frank J. Devine, Special assistant, Bureau of

Inter-American Affairs, dated Nov 18, 1960

66. Cable from Mash to Director, 18 Nov. "Growth of MRP strenth, Miami arrival

Manuel Ray, firm establishment AMRASP as serious alveit somewhat controversial

unit, Bender group concentration on selected number of Cuban complexes, are

factors which about to result clearer emergence leading contenders for carry-

ing brunt anti castro fight. We can perhaps devote now fuller attention to

AMRASP, MRP, and MRRD without undue distraction by other much less important

groups. However we should realize that these latter groups may be very vocal

---

## Page 33

20 170

SECREL

AMRASP and even perhaps AMWAII may switch to MRP sooner or later. This 1g might

be so because Bender, I.E. PRPRIME, readiness Render some support to MRP no

dark secret and MRP perhaps more appealing to you new direction. AMAIL WaS

always close to MRP but had no place to go until just now."...

" During 16 Ilov Bender Miro meeting latter was much dejected. He cannot bring

about unity: Those in touch with PBPRIMERS are smug and feel no need to amake

even a minimum of compromise: those not in touch are waiting to see which of

groups will gain upper hand and then will try to join it at last possible

moment....

"Bender then sprung suggestion, and suggestion only, which he had tried out

on Manuel Ray the previous month night: Perhaps one could form a consejo

as AMRASP, MRP, AMYUM dissidents and any other group that whated to join.

....Miro felt such solution possible especially if prprimers would let it be

known it desire.d.

67. Blank page- FBI MEmorandum dated 18 Nov 1960; Subject Anti-Fidel

Castro Activities. File No. 109-584

68. Contact Report by Wallace Parlett with Raul Chibas and Juan Estevez

Ramiras on nov 16, 1960. Informed of currie organization of MP. Manolo

Ray wanted that I be reassured and that I understood fully the MRP's

great freindship for the U.S. I gave Chibas a $400 check made out to his

name •

69. Cable dated nov 21, 1960 Ray has phoned V from NYC and arranged to

see AMHAWK in Miami. According V brief conversation was cordial.

70. Cable #e+

Dated Nov 21 reporteing 17 Nov conversation with

Parlett, V said he very disturbed over Parlett proposal establish Miro as

"Super coordinator" and supercede AMBIDDY] with Lorie. Said this would lead

necessarily to his resimation as all work to date would have to be done anew.

Hunt calmed him with assurances that Americans sometimes think out loud and

that noserious proposal was being made to effect such a radical move."

T... Cable to Director from Mash, Nov 21. Subject of Provisional govt

discussed with V. If we agree on single Provisional president V thinks

Miro Cardona probably best suited. For discussion purposes V will provide

list of suggested cabinet appointees for caretaker perdod.

72. Document transfer and cross reference. for Varona. Lists two

201 's

201-078056 and 201-289552 (Roberto's)

73. Cable from JMMASH dated Nov 21. Miro

Cardona may accept position as

AMRASP roving ambassador in latin America. Hunt authorized V offer any

reasonable salary plus expenses to Miro.

74. Contact

report dated cc Nov.

subject: meeting with Tony Varona 14 Nov

1960 at Ted Hamilton's apt, Coral Cables, Fborida.

VerOna

Report written

by Wallace A. Parlett, Marent V informed them of plans to to to Ny to see

Majore, Venezuelan Minister of Treasury whom he wants to ask for aid.

Apter this, V would go to D.C. to see the OAS Secretary General and will give

position paper to press.

We suggested to V that it might be a good idea

to visit Washington during the week of Nov 21 and to pay a

courtesy call on someone in the office of Assistnat SEcretary Mann.

1111013

SECRETA

---

## Page 34

18

SECREL

Cable dated Nov 24. 1960 from JMASH to Director Pedro Diaz Lanz has

ined AMRASP, bringing into it the following pilots: Abel Hera Corton,

Frank PiroFiorini, Francisco Llano, Evangelista Mrsull, Ramon P. quentes,

Nester Alvarez, and Fernando Garcia. (Marcos Diaz Lanz, his brother also

joined.) Shortly after joinging R AMRASP, Diaz suggested to AMHAWK the

establishment of a special mission group comprising the above personnel, all of

whom, accofding to Diaz are qualified as A/C mechanics. The group could

drop AMRASP leaflets on cities, small towns and cooperatives and could fly

cargo missions when required.

Io prepare themselves for standby readiness

Diaz has requested V

and V has queried Twicker) for funds to

A- Rehabilitate the personaly owned B-25 A/C of Diaz at a cost of approx

$5000. B- Provide pilots with link trainer time (8 pilots at ten hours

monthly, at cost of $8 mont per hour, and C consider purchase of Float-

equipped Cessna 180 or 210 for infil/exfil Ops.

Twicker believes Diaz highly motivated and recognizes AMRASP as mainstream

anti-Castro org. Temp. solution has been to assign Diaz group to

transport Commission, which now functions under mil commission.

SRequestes HQS approve initial link trainer refeesher of DIS 960, 15 hrs

per pilot, then monthly cost of 640$/ month. (no author given)

76. Blank Page- Outgoing Cable from Dept of State dated Now 25, 1960

IT• Cable dated nov 26. from JMASH to Director Ref 1820. AMHAWK has

been pressuring for commitment rei proposa, but when ne mentionea

that "Cesar" fo

his personattunt principal underground leader, and proponent

plan wanted to

make quick trip to Miami Hunt replied that

opportunity ideal give tesar thorough debriefing. Iwicker agreed that CESAR

would be compartmented from Goudie and Martin Elena, and could tell his

story directly to Keator.

78. Blank Page- FBI Memo dated 28 Nov 1960 Subject : Movimiento Revolucionario

del Pueblo (MRP) File NO 105-3107

79. Letter to Dave from unidentified source- may be Lem Jones. dated Nov 29, 1960.

Indicates that Varona decided he wanted a nw public relations outfit in NY

Outfit selected was Connolly Associates, headed by Joe Connolly Jr. He has

been NY correspondent for Adeeb, Osborne

and Mc Claney. Osborne pretends to

know nothing about what is going on. Joe Connolly says & Osborne personally

called him about project.

Joe wants no part of it.

80. Blank Page- Memo of Conversation dated Nov 29, 1960 Subject: Activities

against the Castro Regime in Cuba.

81. Blank p.

memo dayed DEC 7, 1960 - Subject: Revolutionary

Movement by the People (MRP)

82. Cable- From WAVE to Dir dated Dec 8, 1960- re review with Hamilton possible

bases for provisional govt with AMLOON# I NAMIOON excluded himself from any

participation, stating that he desired only to return to his finca, his law

frice and presidency of colonos

3. From W

84. Newspaper article which indicates V in Chicago on Dec 9.

tee, dated mat at states that y on ne and until 23 Dec.

85. FBI Memorandum dated Dec 14, 1960 Subject: Democratic Revolutionary Front.

Internal Security- Cuba. (Blank Page)

-85. Cable from Mexico Dated Dec 10, 1960 states debriefing Pachuke continuing

Longan plans take PACHUKE wash for LCFlUTTER on 12 Dec. Will travel via Houston

secuirty sheck PACHUKE"S house.

On DEC 9 Johngon, FNU, speaking Texas English

phoned Mexico City Cuban Embassy from Nogales exico saying had 'very

very important' info to give them. Said info about «Varona and Florencio

of NY. Cable from Mexico City states on 29 Nov subject registered as Carl

Johnson of 3452 Jo Dunn St., Memphis, Tennessee, photographer

11110110

SECRELi

---

## Page 35

SECREL

A 849

2019

186. Cable from Mexi City to Dir dated Dec 12. According to FBI Johnson's

true name is Thomas Howard Griggs born 2 Sept 25, wanted in Chicago on

warrant for abduction.

87. Cable from WAVE dated Dec 13, Ponchay met Gustavo Mustelier, Cuban'

lawyer

on 11 and 12 KDEC. Manson attended meeting under name of Robert

Vincent. General discussion re Cuban exile unity off lack thereof.

88. Cable form Caracas to Dir dated Dec 15. Estevez appointed FRD

coordinator CARA.

CIRAKE-3 quit supporting V.

89. List of claimed personnel of Rescate.

Transmittal of Varona's OB. (

What is OB) Dated Dec 16. In spanish.

Cable to Dir from Wave dated Dec 19.Per "Per Scorgory verbal query

at WAVE, Rafael Genor ("Macho") working with AMIRON. AMDIP approves visa

for wife."

91. Dispatch- dated Dec 21. To Chief WH Division- JMWAVE from Chief M

AMOT/2 reports that Gisela Garcia de Solis who resides 314 L. Street,

Sparks, Nevada is working for AMIRON in Nevada, Los Angeles, San Francisco,

Reno and Las Vegas. She was recommende for the job by kV. and Jorge

Alonso Puja PUJOL. Requests traces.

92. Blank page- Information Report from Office of Naval Intelligence

dated 22 December 1960 Subject: Cuba: Statements dof Cuban refugee recently

arrived in Madrid Spain.

92. Biographical profile on Dr. Manuel A. de Varona dated 22 Dec 1960

93. Memoranaum from FBI dated December 22, 1960 re Anti-Fidel Castro Cactivities.

94. Blank Page- Memorandum dated December 20, 1960 on Cuban opposition groups.

11110110

SECRET

---

## Page 36

as 20

SECRET

Volume 7 6 Varona 201 From 1 January 1961 to 30 May 1961

11110917

1. Cable dated

5 Jan 1961

re AMNORM.

Refers to Bender meeting on

January 5, NYC.

2. Cable DAted Jan 5 indicates V wants to visit troops in Guat.

Cable dated Jan 6 lists AMDIP's suggestions for provisional govt officials.

I. Gaule-Dated! Meno for & record dated Jan 9, 1961"

re Consolidated

Florentine Blanco. Grills is in business with Lewis O'ConnorJr and

Joseph O'Connor.

5. FBI Memo dated Jan 9, 1961 re Frente Revolucionario Democratico- Blank page.

6. Memo for record by L. Napoli dated 13 Jan.

Subj. Conversation with

AMCLATTERI and Varona concerning the Cuban exile group's visit to Washington.

ANCIATTER was told by V that there were plans for large

delegation of Cubans to go to Washington from Miami and New York. Purposes:

Thank Pres Eisenhower for million dollars set aside for Cuban relief,

pay a tank -you call to Peruvian Ambassador and speack to reps of OAS.

7XXXIB**410 188K4x784*9148 588 X BEX#9489848227

7. Blank page- Memo for the Record dated 10 Jan 1961

8. Page headed with Dir of CIA- Cellini was formely employed in the gambling

casino at the Tropicana night club in Havana. It is also requested that we

be

advised whether your Agency is in a position to know of any extensive financial

backing of Varona and Frente and, if so, whether there is any other data avail

able indicating substantial contributions by gambling intereste in the u.s.

9. Blank Page DBF 67223 dated 18 Jan 1961

10. CAble dated 20 Jan from WAVE to Dir. Orellana told AMbip that GOG disposed

recognize a Cubn govt in exile on Gust soil and declare war aghinst Castro.

Evehiclel to meet privately with V on 24 Jan.

11. Memo for record dated 23 Jan by Machael M. Maney fe Alleged telecon

between Rufo Lopez Fresquet and Pres. Kennedy.

"In a telecon with Francisco

Saralegui (Bohemia Libre) on this date, he confided to me that he had been told

by LOPEZ Fresquet of a conversation which Lopez had had with the Pres. on Sat.

House and reprimenaded for having divulged info passed to him in strictest

confidence.

12. Cable Jan 26. V is to take part in a radio/IV public events show in NYC

on Jan 29. On 1 Feb he will address a women's group on was.

13. Cable+ Dispatch dated 31 Jan 1961 To Chief WHD Fromt (blank) Action:

Cheif of Base, JMWAVN INFO: Memo prepared by Mr. William D. Pawley.

Ref UFGA 747-

" Attached is a thermofax copy of the memornadum mentioned

in the reference. The original has apparently been retained in the files of

the originator."

14. Dispatch dated 1 Feb Attached is a tape of conversation between Fabio Fre

yre, Rubio Padillo, Cuervo Rubio and Toy Vanona. Conversation took place on 30

January. (No tape

is in file)

SECRET.

---

## Page 37

21

3/0.

SECRET:

15. Contact Report with Guillermo Alonzo Pujo, 18 Jan Report Hated ffebf2, by'

Gerard Droller. Reports meeting with Pujol who asked if Bender would continue

in view of the change in administrations. Bender answered Yes. Bender profeses

to be a privte Am citizen. Pujol suggested proposals to change FRD.

16. Hogan is a US citizen, free-lance writer and part time sugar brokerd

Resided in Cuba since youth, has contacts with Cubans in sugar business. Lived

in Havana 1959 working with Sugar Stabilizaiton Institute •

17. Blank Page- Memo of Conversation dated February 6, 1961

18. Blank Pge- Memo FBI dated FEB 7, 1961 re CLIP

19. New Executive Committee to be gomposed of V., Justo Carillo, Miro Cardona,

Tony Maceo, Carlos Hevia, Jesus Fernadaz, Sergio Carbo, Josa Alvarea Diaz,

Rasco's Substitute, Goar Maestre. (Memo dated Feb 8, 1961)

20. Letter dated Feb 8, 1961 from Michael J.P. Malone •

21. Memorandum fof Conversation date Feb 9, 1961 re Views of Opposition Leader:

dR. Antoinio Varona•

Blank Page

22. Blank Page: DBF 68504 dated 10 Febrary 1961

23. Cable E"b 11, from Wave to Bell re opperation popcorn (kWASP; 76 ' yacht)

Inflitration* Exfiltration operation- lists persons to be exfiltrated.

Emilio Gonzalez Castellanos, Benito Medina Garcia, Gilberto Sadenas, Alberto

Gonzalez Ricio, Carmel Gottarne:

24. Cable from Wave to Bell dated Feb 13 AMOT-2 reported that only info he has

been able detemine re DINO V. CELLINI is that Subj worked at the Casinos

Tropicana and Riviera in Cuba, then went Haiti. Subj now residing at 12450

Key Stone Rd. North Miami. A2 has been unable determine whether or not v

is in contact with Cellini, firm of McLeary, Adeeb and Osborne, Pr firm IV,

Nevada, or Edward K. Moss of #as chase/Moss

international Inc.

Barker will

ask v re above.

...

s,9?.*..

25 Letter or Memo to Director fof FBI, #Attention MrS.J. Papich, from DDP

dated 24 Feb 1961 re Cellini family. Related info obtained on Cellini, same

as 24 above. Expect additional info shortly. Requests any additional info

the FBI can provide on the Bernard Nucilli mentioned in the FBI report

originating with NY office on 18 June 1957f Subject- Rouhi JAMIL, file

No. 105-24466 (SM) Handwritten on Memo is see DBF-70566 8 March 1961.

26. Memorandum for the Record dated 28 February 1961 by Droller, sus:

Plans for the Establishment of the Cuban Provisional Governmeth.

Droller and Napoli met with Varona on Feb 17. On same day they had a

meeting with both Varona and Ray. Droller presented list af 29 names

from which they were to chose 10 for provisional govt. Ray got mad.

Algo gave them a Y point program as discussed with the Chief of the

Western Hemisphere Division.

Agreed that Varona, Ray, Artime; Carrillo, Chibas and Pazos would meet!

in NY on 26 Feb. in order to examine list of 29 names and make decision

and Ray and Varona would retrun to Washington on or about 1 March with

their findings. Droller's Comment:.... "We believe that Varona will

play ball one way or another, but we are not convinced that Ray will

accept our list. We have the impression that he might want to substitute

his own list; of course, we must see whate he comes up with. In any case it

is our view that we should not rush matters unduly if there is real State

Department interest in hving Mr. Ray and company play a role in the pro-

visional government. Should the decision be made to write Ray off, we believe t

the Pa ana con

the Assembly could be convolked without too much ado, substituting Miro

Cardona for Ray. It should be noted that the above is only the gist of a

long conversatton session which, by the way, was recorded and took place in

the Shoreham hotel...."

SECRET

---

## Page 38

MBUDL

3a a2 SECRET

27. Memo for record of Telephone conv. with Artime and Varona on 1 March

1961 dated ? MI, 1961 by Napoll. Varona reported on how meeting was going

In NY re FrD program.

Meeting was going badly. Could not reach agreement.

28. Memo for record by Napoli dated 3 Mar. 1961 re Phone conv with

V on 2 March. Reported on meeting which had taken a turn in favor of FRD.

Agreed that a group of Coubans would be appointed by these 6 and group

would be augmented to include others. They would chose a provisional pres.

Charter members of the six are Carrillo, V., Pazos, Emilio Menendez,

Miro Cardona, and Carlos Hevia.

29. V and AMbang I returnig WAVE night of Y March. Wire not given indication

whether or not ther proposal for Rv Council which they advanced 6 March

to Licari looked upon favorably.

30. Memo for record by Droller dated 7 March. Varona, Willard Carr and

Ray met on Mrch 6 in Shoreham in D.C.

Carr described

as senior partner in

Bender group. to assume role of primary negotiator in establishment of

revolutionary council. Mr. Carr agreed and he came to Washington where he

was fully briefed and brought up to date by Mr. Droller and Mr. Noel.

31) Cable dated March 24, 1961 TO JMWAVW from Bell " Numerous FBI reports

Indicate Juesu Gonzalez Cartas alias El Extrano as gangster murderer

smuggler and drug addict who identical with trainee 4882. Subj not rpt

not to be used." in handwriting after • " reported also he is one of

Varona's two bodyguards. The other is equally bad."

32. Memo fr Record by Droller dated March 27. Varona to go to

Guat. on 21 March®

33 Contact report with Victor Piedra- dated 7 April 1961

34. ICAble dated April 10, 1961. From JMWAVE to BELI indicates V

will be NYC all this week.

35. Dispatch dated April 13. from JNWAVE re publication by Orlando Bosch

Avila-coordinator general of the Movintento Insurreccional de Recuperacion

Revolucionaria. Blames Varona fap deaths of may patriots in the Escambrayand

aloo blames Americans.

36. Memo by Droller dated April 24. V will fly to Nicaragua to see

8 Somoza on 23 April.

BT, Memo for record by

Droller dated 28 April 76 61 re phone conversation

with Revolutionary Council.

Varona called Droller on 27 April and requested

recruits in NY be sent to Guat. Told to refer matter to Mr. Berle. Miro

Cardona called and complained "that while he had promised the pilots on

KMTIDE $30 "hardship pay" an American named "JOe" had made payments of $250.

Miro said that now all returnees would have to get this large amount."

Hevia also called and siad that the spy Duran Ache should be returned Guat

to #Venezuela. Told to let Varona handle this matter since he knows the

Duran case base best.

38/ Dispatch from JMWAVE to Chief.

by Stanley R. Zamka dated 11 May

On 11 May 1961 AMOT-2 made the following report about his interview with

ambud] : " I was received very effectionately and, after an'abrazo' he

assured me that I was his friend and that the proof of this was that I was

in his home, which was 'my home.'

..He said that after the events of the

week of 17 April and upon the request of V and AMTAG he had called a meeting

Of AMBUD, at which AMDIPl had requested in an insolent manner and a loud

voice that I be replaced in the work I have been doing. The reason given

by AMDIPl and upheld completely by AMJAG was that I had not told AMBUD!

the day, hour,

and place of landing of the Army of Liberation, and therefore

AMBUD should withdraw its confidence in me. AMBUD-1 explained to me that

at this time of confusion, and thinking of what was best for Cuba, he thought

that he ought to accede to the request of AMDIP-1 and AMJAG.

11:10113

SECRETE

---

## Page 39

300

Cable, dated May 22, 1961 frOM JMWAVE tO BELL - AMCOOPcontacted and provided

info:

A-I met with MRR undeground leader known only as "Rene" on March April

17. Rene told Al that all underground groups had been ordered remain quiet

and not do anything until receiving further orders. Did not know where

message & came from. In addition to Rene, whom he believed to be a pa

former part time law proffessor at Villanueva University, Al said that

the only other underground leader he had met was a man named Raul whome

he described as the man in charge of the MRP organiaation following Manolo Ray'

s departure from Cuba. Al also admited knowning an MRP official named

Godoy (FNUl and a rescate member named Juarez but that both men were only

Iowere eschelon leaders in their respective organizations.

40. Dsipatch dated 27 May from JMWAVE-

ref UFGW 418- AMOT2 advised that

subject has never been amember of DIER. Subject therefore is not identical to

the one Antonio Fernandez of paragraph la of reference. (Subject is Antonio

Fernandez Gomez aka Antonio Fergo. ) According to A2 Subject is a close friend

of AMDIP] and more or less follows the latter's political orientation. A2

said subject represented the firm Publicidad Fergo-Arrego.

kVOl 7- Aug 57- April 61- Biographic file

1. PRQ 2- operational information. Answere to questions- 36 thur 58. States

that V was first introduced to James R. Palinger and Wallace A. Growery by

a contact of Palinger's in May 1957. Has been under development ever since.

Hand written note on side indicates Varona was in contact with station for

at least 2 years before this. thru Frau Masal (sp?) Also Varona had direct

contact with Embassy almost continuous for many years. Varona is to

supply info concerning polictical opposition plans including conspiratorial

movements to overthrow the Government. Ballace A. Growery- Case Officer

2. Operational approval requested on Aug 15 , 195%

3. Request for Investigation and Approval. V is classified as an Indigenous

Filed Field Agent.

4. Operational approval granted 2//ABr05fF

Jan 20, 7958

5. Operational approval amended for use of V as a Pagent in Project AMPATROL

granted On A4yx888x2947 Aug 28, 1959

6. Memo from Jorge ? to Dave Phillips dated June 1960 re Varona.

7. Biographic Sketch of Varona by E.W. Londregan, Jr. dated 27 Oct 1960.

On march 28 V was invited to U. to set up an anti-kCastro movement. I960

Good summary of Vanona's activities prior to 1960.

8. Background of Varona dated 22 Mrach 1962-

No author given but to be

filed Inder AMCONCERTI- very negative.

9. Memo fhe record No. 403.

Dated 27 April 1963- Subject - Meeting with

V to advise him of liguidation of CRC.

10. Document transfer and cross reference. Subject of Documenta- Miami visit

Pertinent info:

"V. Very pro-American and when asked about Mr. Kennedy's administration, Tony

was amazing. Father knows best. As a matter of fact whether it was planned or

not he received a call while we were there and unless we had been deaf ewe

couldn't help hearing him say: 'Naturally these reiders are always proud to say

that they do not have any casualties but they do not realize the amount

of casualities that they leave behind because the G2 then grabs those

unfortunate people in the island."

11110120

SECREL

---

## Page 40

88 24

Volume # 8 June 61 to sept 70.

1. Luncheon meeting with Cardona and Ernesto Aragon at Mayflower hotel. Memo

written by Droller. Date. June 9, 1961. Miro reported on meeting of

Miro, Varona, and Aragon with Goodwin and Mr. Schlesinger. who professed

confidence in Miro. Miro gave Goodwin proposed budget for CRC

2. Dispatch from JMWAVE dated June 12, 1961 reported that a rumor in

Miami that V has over $300, 000 deposited in an unidentified bank in

Miami. the source of funds is not known. Mario Marre Barrera reported to

be working! for V in newspaper propaganda and is in charge of radio

prop.

Handwritten that Barrer is listed in April budget as receiving

225 $ salary •

Barrera claims he gets $150 a month.

3. Cable dated June 14, 196k- V and AMDOBBYI setting up five rendevous

points about five miles outside Havana Harbor for infil exfil ops. Bell states

that "Due te

proposed area of ops and past experience ANDPPS HQS deems

only feeasible support to extent areas/fuel and techical assist. Unable

assume risk use of JMAIE assets or PBPRIME personnel this op at this

time.

4. Memo on Varona payments by Droller dated July 7, 1961--V being paid

900$/month . States that Varona was promised by Mr. Jim Nel in Havana

that he would receive support for operational plans and personal needs.

On or about 20 May 1960 payment was discussed at headquarters.

Out of 900 Varona was to give 200 to chauffeur body guard- Francisco

Zayas. Paid by "Bender check" from June 1, 1960 to Nov 19600

From Non 1960 to March 1961- Varona was paid directly in cash by Hunt.

April and May 1961 paid by Bender check from Headquarters. Payments were

in addition to salary received from the FRD.

"As of 3 July 1961, I was of the opinion that me should not pay Varona any-

thing more under the table, but in view of the Special Group decision, if

I am correctly informed, of enconraging our dealings with numerous

Cuban groups and personalities, it might be wise to keep in touch with

Varona for some time and pay him some reasonable amount as nothing

cements friendships better than money.!

Routing slip datedd 10 July contains remark that we should hold off

on any further payments until the air clears and until we get instruttions.

Right now Varona is one of our most bitter critics. I don't propose to buy

him off. (Can't read initials)

5. Varona called CIA on July 7.L

has been designated

as replacement for Jerry Droller in liaison matters with Cardona.

6. Dispatch dated July 10, 1961 from JMWAVE Major Robert E. Van Hrn

USAF, Assistant air attache to Cuba assigned to the Miami area.- liason

with Cuban pilots in Miami

7. Memo for record- by

dated

7 July 1961. Contact

with Varona. Varona is in DC stating at Roosevelt hotel. Will be in DC

3 or 4 days. L

gave mame of Raymond Clark. Varona asked

several questions re state of, affairs. Got no answers. Asked how

to get in touch with General Taylor. Told to go through Mr. Goodwin.

8. Contact with Varona on July # 11 1961 and

Varona

wanted money for three prisoners who are now stranded at Mariott. N ote on

side says no- quid pro quo clear on this.

9. Meeting ## of AMIRON members on 26 July. Trying to oust V. Attended

by V and fight started. Police came and arrested several people. Alfonso

I. Tarabochia, deputy sheriff in Miami sheriff's office told AMOI3 that

no charges would be pressed. Took action during arrest only against people

criticizing V. Tarabochia held over 2 hour conversation with V. 1111012.

DECRET

---

## Page 41

'SECRET

10. Sept 9, 1961 Cable from JMUAVE Indicating Consejo Revolucionario

Cubano and frent Revolucionario Democratico will merge around 15 Sept.

Miro Carationa will be head and V will be second. Will retain name of CRC.

11. CRC meeting NYC OCT 9, 1961- Varona was present.

12. Memo fro record dated 16 June 1962- Conversation with Varona. Memo

#342. Report by PASSAVOY.

13. Vasona visted San Jose on L 17 August 1962.

14. On august 15, 1962 Varona visited President Roberto Chiari of Panama and

requested

a meeting o1 Central American chiefs of State on Cuban issue.

Comment in cable that rumors in Miami that efforts are being made to

convince President Chiari to permit the establishment in Panama of

Cuban Gov't in exile.

15. V. returnted Mimai on Aug 24.

I6. V now in Wash. Veeting with Hurwitch ( Nov 2, 1962.) Meeting held

on Oct 31.

17. Cable Dec 5, 1962- On dec 2 meeting with Honduran pres Morales and

several other leaders of Cuban group V made lenghty statement that

CIA was responsible for current lack of activity and that CIA was

working behind back of Kennedy.

18. Barona departing Jan 11 for

San Jose. 1963.'

19. Information report. dated Jan 17 1963 While Varona was in Costa

rica an unnamed large Landowner of Costa Rica wnet to the Miami headquarters

o1 Rescate to discuss the leasing of some of his coastal land in Costa

Rica to Varona. When Varona returned to Miami, he was quite irritated to

learn that the landowner had called hin his absence.

20. Memo . On 16 Sept 1953 Dr. Martin Pella met with Varona and Inis

Botifol in Chicago. Pella# informed V and Botifo were discussing the

possibiltiy of setting up an export-import business for trade with Latin

America with Hyman Berg, a chicago automotive parts man known to

have sold jeeps and parts to Castro in 59 and 60. Told Pella they

were broke and frustrated. V. told Pella that he ran into Pasolino

Sierra in Nicaragua., who had

a role of about $10,000. Told Varona

he was being hacked by big business in Chicago and was in a position

to get millions for an anti-Castro revolution.

21. Cross reference that V's right hand man is Mario del Canal Ferrer.-

27 Feb 1964.

22, Report of June 7, 1965. States that after CRC fell into disrepair

V moved from Miami to NY and became automobile salesman.

23. Letter to # OLien - WOFACT from Varona dated 23 Dec. 1966. Return address

111 W. 42nd St, apt 302 NYC 10036.

woodrow C. Olien.

24. Cable 1970- Sept. Reports that Varona, Carlos M. Torres, and Enrique

H. de Franco have given planed march to Vashington full support on behalf

of executive board of Cuban revolutionary Party in northern U.S. March is

under Cuban power control and true purpose is to picket white House #with

slogans Freedom of the Seas and Freedom for Basch.

25. 0$

24 April 1961 report written by Robert F. Moroney- re

of Revolutionary Council 19-20 April 1961 • Also describes a little meetings

with Kennedy after Bay of Pigs

11110122

SECRET

---

