# 180-10142-10488

## Page 1

88191-26101

.................--.-- ............... cc... .... ...

1S373H0

SI A SIN

--...--

88701-Z410L-08L

---

## Page 2

(I Soft file on Mmm photo.

1. Blind memo dated 5/5/27:

''Avaresult ofa detailed

search of old records forwarde

to Hashington from Mexico

City, three of the original

reports of the "Unidentified

man" were located. According

as reported in Mere 64530f

8 October 1963) from 1216 to /222

hours (local time) andon 4October

he same man visited the

Cuban Consulate at 1115 hours

IN 15 October 1963.2/3he

recordo.contain.negatives.of.

five frames of photographs

into from. two.of their

frames were sent to.

Headquarters.asa.part.of.th

station file on Oscald because

this man.was mistakenh

linked to the Orwald mivesti...

gation before.it. was known

that.@swald.had.left.Mexico

---

## Page 3

Coy before the lan ont

thore additional frames

will be printed and filed.

with the other photograph

n. 201-281248 Mexico file bri

nese photogra

hs add no.

2 Photographs of the unidenti-

fied man were provided by

three seperate?

sources.

Theoiginalrecords.dveé loca=

ted for

turo of these sairoes..

(This is a recort for 2,4, and 15:

October 1963) The other records

are beliered to have bees

for more: recent records. 3)

INfI

---

## Page 4

2

-3÷

the delau

But end tided a gending

... It was discussed in Dave

Phillips bookasa.ssult.cas

oflaziness on the part of

the soviet case officen (which

and unnecessary and indicates

that Dave Plotte as didn't know.

of. the and of October The

wouldhave.go.ne.

Russian language portion

Russian/ english transcribe

on the 3rd of actober.the

tranalation would haire...

been returned the falloivi

(ith) at which time, the

dart care officer ustill

have asked for the photographi

overage. That coverage woul

not have been. in the statio

before the ith since the film

---

## Page 5

wasstill in the camera.on

the ind of October and it

3. hater the film was taken

but at that time, threshay

out of the camera ever

stayed in the camara visitil

w.full.rall.was.completed

which.might take three.or

a dating conte hands

of the name alone but that

wanns the way in scatt

numbersgame..oo

a projed lu

justifing diseatches, cables,

or reports produced."

---

## Page 6

-5÷

3 Logot enter; 20 days geta,

4.

5 log from Cubemb photos

Film #260 10/15/63. hage.

in English. the entry

in the

fog about the mms day,

"Manisent to the Consulate

Memo (blind) ed.dated 5/2/17

the

Records Centere

to revie old Mexico City piles

in searchof additional photo

graphs of the " unidentified man

Ne were unable to locate any

such photographs. It appears

sulf

---

## Page 7

-6-

material were re-used.to

forward more recent photo =

graphic material to Headquarters

for retention... Auspatch HMmI

11,318, dated, March March1972. Photos

were filled in re-usedsubject

and "'" folders (equivalent of

subject 201 folders indicatin

contents of

an "'files were destroyed.

Ref (to previous shipment)

HMMA 40, 562, 21 Many 1971."

Blind; undated memo entitled

"Mexico station Coverage of

soviet and Cuban Em

asses

(1963)"

a There were three thato

coverage sites ow. the soviet.

ambassy. One wasdietly

sorret gate, The sicond.

covered the backyard of th

the fiist.one.

was closed wher the station

learned that the Mariens

DM/z

---

## Page 8

-7-

i /

Commission. was going.to

jaublish.a.capy.of the

mmmphotograph

b These three bases were

managed lujan agent cho

a week the film was then?

deselojped.and.printed.onto-

age endin, bation clash

telephons

surveillance.operation.ov

the best hala on.

---

## Page 9

-8=

d 2as 1961 the COS became

the case nollions

operation. Another statio

afficer.-assisted.in dail

supescision and picked/ uje

the tapes and transcripts

sherewasaloon@mericass

technician at the listening

past

E.

In mid -1962

asked for the

phone numbers of the Cuban,

oviet and satellite embassies

The CIA Station ther

sput.

in taps on 5 dariet +5

Cuban lines. Alive moniter.

atthe sing test made

gore to he hide ree.

to the set era typed even le

IrN/z

---

## Page 10

-9-

were completed, usually

wirtha dan

taken to Boris Parasaff for

translations; "the translations

rawabouta week

sation"

auton asthettation

dentifigina

himseas

he Oswald phoned the boviet

pastur

all photographs, Howeven, h

again, there was a backlog,

because the photographs were

picked up three times aiveek.

but thare picked up were.

usually for dates a few days

before since the technicia

made..

initially until a complete

rall of filin was. used. Later

this was changed and th

perator cleared the camera.

---

## Page 11

=10-

cover the entire work day.

fie host and to photos apa

all foreigners, and cars with

foreign license plates. Biona

errorididocain but generally

the agents. were conscientious

The Cuban embassy coverage

had more sophisticated

equijiment usinga pulse

camera which frequently

eloped mechanical

Oswald came to the

attention of the listening

post aperators from.a

tays of:

the soviet line. St

was picked upand taken

to Mr. Boris Sarasoft for

translation because te

caller was trying to spare

delay because station personne

waited.to.compare.the.sphortograjshe

---

## Page 12

with the typed transcsint.

TI

SIT here are several cables and

memos about a tentative

identification of the mmm

"Moskales", a KGB offices.

10 Feb 79: "Mates made by A

Hoopartine for fohn

Leaders IGItaff.

a the three phato sites wer

handled but Ramon Alisares..

He callagled the filmand his

Erötler in-lauSprintedit,

b. the agents used in the

Chäiles Flict) was a T'SD

officer cho was jout inside

the listens pass panstai

i. soappasture

met with hindally to pick

DAlS

---

## Page 13

upithe tapes and transcripts..

Personnel assignments

OS: Win scatt

DCOS: Alain Malrite (4/63-9/65)

CA:

A: David Phillips (9/41-3/44)

asst

-8162-9/44)

CubA Ops: Rabert thai

14113-4/65

Chiel.

(9/13 - 7/65)

Korma Mackay 10/63 - 5/65

save Phillips Chief

(8/63 - 6/65)

Sovist tArget:

(9/59- 8145)

William. Bright (5/24-2/48

MIL Beck Mete

Outside. CO.(6/62-1/47

24.

Support Assets.

PhONE tAp: ThomAs KEENAN. (2160-101

Outside. CO: Davis Wilsted

[49-377

24

Photos CubANs:

RobErt ZAmbErNArdil 6159-4164

In/ 8

---

## Page 14

13.

Savist

I Photo:

Luis Fuckett 4/55=0/24.

Iphone toyas

62-68

supasture 67-215

A

uriseillance:3

12/63-9/67 Robert Feld

ITSD Outside Umit

Silen Tidoten 4/33-12/65.

t2 badpastive took the rel

Heho usould

then get it to the Farasaffs

.-LD

Memorandum. prepared by

Raymo

no Rocco. for the

Rackeflller.Commi

ssions:.

stay in Mexico. City that

month.'

DM/a

---

## Page 15

14

It me time dising his stay

1-aca

Oswald. a careful review

of all coverage was conducted

on 22and 23. November 1963

after the assassination

Mexico

atthough it had made a

regents 5 petrative.

had no photo af Osualal

in his records nor did he

recieve one from Head-

Quarters - which did nort

have one either-before

22. Movember 1963"

---

