ra0-1046-10067
ere

L.GUIS LTCKES, O10, CHAT MAN
SAMUEL . VEVINE,
ErEWAN

ene

. A
Select Committee on Assassinations
i

(202) 225-4624 f 1.4, House of Representatives
‘3951 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX

4 WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515.

16 August 1978.~!.

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator/HSCA

Office of Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency RETURN TO CIA

Washington, D.C. 20505 Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

Dear Mr. Breckinridge:

In connection with this Committee's investigation into
the circumstances surrounding the death of President John F.
Kennedy, we respectfully request access to any and all files,
index references and documents concerning Orestes Guillermo
Perez Ruiz. Mr. Ruiz was born on 10 February 1930.

We also respectfully request that your Agency make
Mr. available for an interview by HSCA staff
members. 03 a

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Diy elf

G. Roert Blakey
Chief Counsel and Staff Director

Sincerely,
_

GRB:alh : ae
(Typed at CIA Headquarters, 8/16/78.) venetian)

up)



éoelect Conumittee on

GL. Horse of Bei
4931 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, AN
WASHINGTON. 0.6, 20519

17 August 1978" .

Mr. Scott Breckinridge
Principal Coordinator/ASCA
Office of Legislative Counsel
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

pear Mr. Breckinridge:

tn connection with this Conmittee'’s investigation into the circum
stances surrounding the assassination of president John F. Kennedy, we
respectfully xesuest that our staff be granted access to wll. files,
index references and documents concerning two former Ag!
named Greg Vitale and Cal Hicks. Compliance with this reques
cover the years 1960 to 1973.

We would also appreciate it if you would give this request. for files
priority attention.

We further respectfully request that the above mentioned former

employees be jnade available for interviews by TSCA staff menbers between
s 22 August and 25 August. 1978. :

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerely, ie
vets peel

= he ee t Blakey

Chief Counsel and Staff Director

GRB:dih
\ (Typed at CIA Yeadquarters, 8/17/78.)

Note: This request should be interpreted to include a listing of all
known aliases and pseudonyms used by the above individuals.

