# 180-10143-10233

## Page 1

180-10143-10233

Genzman

#

5-4-78

Russell August Längelle.

SECRET

Robert Genzman and Harold

Lexp interviewed Russell August

Langelle at C/A headquarters

on May 4, 1928. The intervreco

yielded the following information:

Fangelle joined the CIA in

september 1950, and worked

mainly. in SR9 of the soviet

Russia.

Division....

In... Rovember

on the present that te wasney

disgruntled with his assign-

ments. His CIA files would

have reflected this termination

E emplomant. The out ate men.

to the contrary would

a memorandum

from the Director

Free enge a feel cite

when hereturned to the CIA.

(at present this document would

probably be in his personnel

file. on

11112574

Approximately

knew that dangée fifteen people

e was still

with the erA after his resigna-

tion in 1955. These

John Mauru (SE).

(SR 9),.

( Chief

Al Oserations l. Gearas

- SEGRET

10143-10233

---

## Page 2

Genzman

5-4-78

SE PET

At the time of his resignation,

at the bled Bop emperment

the interim he worked at the

Wecht Company. In March 1956

he started to

work at the

State Department as a security

Officer..

september 1956 he

was sent to

where he

carned a reputation for being

a struct security Officer at the

an On personnel we brea

security, in order to build his

cover as a non-CIA. foreign.

CRe CA Chief of Station

y the state Department

11112575

senor CIA tRicer there.

4/V

---

## Page 3

Genzman

5-4-78

SICRET

Langelle Kandled CIA

communications in Moscow.

du 1754 the Soviets declared

fangelle persona son grata as.

e result of his involvement with

P. S. Popor. Fangelle was the

are the er it tope, who worked

→ Soviet militar

intelligence. Inhile making a

ontact with Popor! Langelle

was detained by the KGB

and was quetioned for to

The KGR

attempted to recruit him, and

then released him. The State

- SECHET

11112576

---

## Page 4

SECR

Genzman

5-4-78

SECRET

Department filed a formal protest

but Langelle was told to leave

the Soviet Inion within three

days. He left the soviet Inion

in early October 1959.

Langelle first became aware

f Lee Harvey Oswald when he

heard in a conversation that

a Marine had contacted the

American consular office in

Moscow to renounce Mis citizenship

He later heard that this individial

had changed his mind and was

returning to the United states.

He does not recall the details

United sta

Tele conversati pee to tre

11112577

Tangelle characterized Sowald's

defection as a consular case to

sivolving intelligence sence cas

somerson ten earna

---

## Page 5

Genzman.

5-4-78

SECRET

Langelle stated that the

miletary intelligence people at the

Embassy probably would have been

contacted about Oswald's defection.

The military intelligence personnel

included Leo Dulacki (Marines),

Paul Adams (Navy), John

Munson (Navy), and Ted Hollman

(Army) ..

Langelle stated that when

Oswald left the foriet Inion,

he was the responsibility of the

state Department, the dinmigration

and Naturalization fervice, and

the FBI.

11112578

When Langelle left;

Moscow in 1959

Fangelle's

was later replaced bu

- DECRET

---

## Page 6

6

Genzman

5-4-78

SECRET

I that stateen the chit

was John Maury, followed by

Howard Osborne and then

David C. Murpny.

Weth regard to American

journalists in Mosçow, Langelle

had no contacts with R. G.

or Alve Mosby,

Johnson for an interview after

he was declared persona. non

grata.

_ SEGRET

111125/3

When Langelle returned to the

inited States, he continued working d

for the state Department. He resumed

hea C/A duties on a part-time bacis

in 1961. Tie dealt with communications

In. september 1761 He resumed EKisIC/A duties

on a full-time basis at headquarters. We.

worked mainly in the Sorret Russia

Dursion, External Operations, Africa and

Europe.

At present he is still writh. the

C/AL

but he plans to retire soon.

31RV

---

## Page 7

ISECRET

Langelle

angeli was born on

October 71922

His social security numbes is

He is married, with three children:

Sangel

a porned the Set deptin, i85,

and worked mainly int

Sovret

Pisiao Doision.

In November! 255 he

have

assignte tet termination of employment.

The only document to the contrary would

have been a memorandum. fron the

Direcho of Central integligence allar

Dulles, stating that thing would

relain all righto and benefita

говавв

ersonnel

file.)

Retries to the si apprenti

fifteen people knees that he was

still with the CIA after his resignatior

in 1955. These included fokn Maury

(SE)

(SK 9)s Quentin

Donat hit of Assations), Sessne

1542 R

41pd

---

## Page 8

SECRET

-Langelle handled C)A communications

111125S1

- SECRET

---

## Page 9

deliberately tough on CiA personnel bor,

decurity breaches in order to stat

Her build

his cover as a non-CIA forcian service officer.

he the interim he worked at the Hecht

Company: In March 1956 he region

started to work at the State Separlment

as a Securely Opficer."

in Seplember 1956,s

on seplmter

1956 la was sent to l

where he

decapest the reputation

a stret decurity opficer; t

Embassy; 72

Beng was

Chop of Station] and the

and

ambassados knew " he wit with

parth fate deed as the beansity

affecer at the Moscow Embassy prom

Dacember/957 to deptem 62 1 959.

Ion addition, he was. the senior ClA

insert]

SECRET

11412002

dr 1959 Ena the soviets declared.

L'Angeli persona nor grata, as a result

7 Re his involvement wite P.S. Popor.

Soviet military intelligenes

hood been

boating

ZIPV

---

## Page 10

3

- SEGRE

S. CRET

making a contact with topor

Langille was detered by the KGB

and was questioned for;

half Rours. The KeG8 allempled

to recruit him. i than released

dinede The state Department

filed. a formal.protest, but fangelle

was forced to bave the soviet Unisr

within three day. ...

Langalle first became aware

I See Harvey swald cohen he heard

in conversation that a former Marisc

dad contacted the american consular

office in Moo cow to renounce his

citizenship: He later heard that

this individual dad changed his

mind and was returning. to the

United Stater. He does not reall

the details of these conversations.

section Qs a consular case to de

landled by consular officers rather

has an intelligence case who

rivolving entelligener olDireni

Ne

Hated That Jawald, when he retired

---

## Page 11

4

SECRET

left the soviet Union, was the

do kly to ste Patrio

dervice, and the FBI:

When Langelle left. Moscow in 1959,

office win been at an es ent

not with the CIA. Afidian was

latered replaced bu

Military intelligence Yersonne

in Marcow included El Adam:..

at headquarters, the l chie of the

Soviet Russia Quision was Joh

anaut followed le

7 Toward Osborne

David E.

Murphy.

SECRET

11112584

41RJ

---

## Page 12

6

SECRET

When Langelle returned to the

United states, Recontinued working for the

State Department. Heresumed This] CIA

duties on a partitime basis in 1951 ste dealt

with comminications

on September 196| he resumed ThiefC/A duties

on a full-time basco at Headquarters.

He worked mainly in the soviet krasia

Division, External Operationa, africa

and Europe. to it present at present

he is still with the ClA

plans to retire soon...

but he

11112585

SECRET

---

## Page 13

sangelle

Russell August 8065

SEGRET

Genzmar

5-4-78

10-7-22

(+95-18-88082

3 ch

E/A

Sepo.50

SRDie: (5R9).

language, operatimal tmel.

... expasience, ralias., stabil.

Nor 55

It word disgruntled?

rengied from agency - sea. ORk

memo from terector

inter. i

el rightso benefits

(Dulles)

ibailed

State

Mer 5056

15 knew

Mos cour -Dee.57

sept. 59

ESR 9 - internal ope

gas.componente

I complet

Sept, 56

-SE John Newsi

SRI

C. fOps Questin Joknson

11112586

+

DOS

Reporto + Regurements

Larmard Me loy

Office of security

1es atepha not aware

moscow

---

## Page 14

2

alidián

SECREF

Fangelle

SEGACT,

Genzman

5-4-78

left in 5%

took over tlate..

PNG

agency operation

penetration or BRUl-mil intel.

Pytor 55

popor. agent

16 was case off:

case compromised

got approval from Thrush.

to kidnap - as steppers

offa

tried to recruit

pleased ofter 21 hrs.

said they would get in touch

state protested

PNG

11112587

Beck to des

It agenty functionin.

'51, musication

---

## Page 15

rangelle.

3

SECRET

Gongman

5-4-78

(Penkousky)

cut out-Brit: wife

529 dapt. 61-.

Enoved back to CIA

on pull-time basis sgt. 6)

(004,58 -87 59)

(mahone): OSA oficer

5R9 Jack Maury

<HO.

is conversation a consular officer acid Maric

- renounced citigenship.

walk ins

consular off. would bring it to your attention

Li Bastin, handled Peror file.

handled Penkoskay

maybe Rosento.!

11112588

SEGRET

---

## Page 16

Fangelle

SECRET

Genzman

5-4-28

mil. intell.

Pailo Adams: Maa:

Ted Hoffmar. arm

absen Nao:

Dulacki Mar.

would have been contacted

Korenged - no contacts

Sohnson- asked for interci after his PNG

Mosby - no contacts

Goldberg-didn't know.

savion - doesn't know if agency

not involved in Pant to his knooled

provocations

Erasmotone ]

Naval aviator.

atsugi - 53-55

SECRET

11112589

---

## Page 17

sangelle

i dangali

5.

SECRET

Bongmar

5-4-78

62

No commo souve regiter with mel. + Moscow

63 - 5R , Chief of External: Opa.

africa + Eur.

David E. Murply Chief of SR Dis.

64-65

COS

during

Popor operation. while

L'a in Moscow

then Maury

Pollened oy Meand Osborne

Murphy

11112530

SECRET

5110

---

## Page 18

5.

peel at ta the litar intena

contacted about Cowald's defection.

The militay intelligence trangel

included trait It.

Dulacki (Marines), Paul

adams (Navy)s.

Munson

With regard to American

journalists in Moscow, Fangelle

had no contacts with k. G. Torengold

or alive morty, did not know

grata.

he was declared persond non

SECRET

11112591

---

## Page 19

SECRET

11112592

SECR 7

WINN

---

