# 180-10144-10462

## Page 1

180-10144-10462

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Rodger S. Gabrielson

OLC/C&R

building)

TO: (Officer designation, room number, end

1.

Doris Haudesheldt

OP

FX- 2

2.

3.

INTERNAL

USE ONLY:

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

EXTENSION

NO.

5233

DATE

OLG RECORD COPY

OLC 78-2060/2

30 May 1978

DATE 32:

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S :

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number each comment lo show from whor

to whom.

Drom a line across column after each comment.

FYI - Attached is official

request which we did last

week.

I have your response

Thanks?/

RodgerS: Gabrielson

10.

1.1.

12.

13..

14.

15

FORM

3-02

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

610 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

1014410462

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

150A

LOUIS STOKES, ÓNIO, CHAIRMAN

MICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL L. DÉVINE, OHIO

WALTER E, FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART B. MC KINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE SURKE, CALIF

CHRISTOPHER J, DODD, CONN.

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD S. FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.*. House of Representatibes

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

May 25, 1978

026 #78-20601

HAND DELIVERED

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

Mr.

Patrick Carpentier

Office of the Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

Dear Mr. Carpentier:

In connection with its investigation into the

circumstances surrounding the death of President John F.

Kennedy, the Select Committee on Assassinations requests

access to the personnel files of present and former CIA

employees who were recently interviewed by Staff Investi-

gator Harold D. Leap to determine the exact period of

time the individuals were stationed

inl

between 1959

and 1964.

The list of names will be submitted at a later

date under separate cover.

The information requested is important to sub-

stantiate or discredit certain allegations that are of

concern to this Committee.

Sincerely,

12. Dobert Blaby

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: h1j

---

## Page 3

DOB

3

Gerome E fox

11 William v Bros

17.

4Det 15

2 hec 23

24 May 3;

280e724

12 Que 2

22 gul 2

11 Qua. 2,

9.0ct.

24. lug 1.

19 Seet 2

---

## Page 4

LIAISON STAFF:

D. Massey

E. Sherman

M. Palmer

R. Kelso

C&R STAFF:

P. Carpentier

G. Chase

R. Gabrielson

M. Cowan

•ECKSTEIN

SWIDER

LEGISLATION STAFF:

R. BARR

J. CONLEY

Kam Y. Foster

T. White

Lyle Miller for signature

SUSPENSE DATE:

1 Ture 7S.

RECEIVED IN OLC:

25/ bway 28

J.S.

Send to

Dors 0.

Ald note!

Doris

FyI Attacked is ou

regaact which west

it wak.

liense.

have your ind

SardAnteum

---

