ty
180-10143-40455) -

I SS EF ££ & LY LP ~
| : DRAFT — 11/3, —GPO,20 wot TYPE HE mereRar chedtud “as
Teds B. Palm
at . ce lassification:'® TH's CiekE vi
id
| (This foMANURE RAYscBTRERRaterial extracted es
i ; eet
i from ClA—controlled documents.) zo5
. ria oc2z0
a When he first came into prominence as a Cuban exile « cc 8
won
leader, Manuel Ray Rivero was described as “softspoken ang ® =noa
ant sone
[ sd b a—-4 =.
unassuming", a person of “highest intellect, sincerity ana 23% oS
1 =Sg=
j conviction" -- in other words, a natural leader. In.1947,= gs a os
Saa Z.
fabed

the 23-year old Ray was granted a scholarship by the Cuban

Ministry of Public Works to study. civil engineering at. the

2
University of Utah. Ray was in the United States for two

Ig
0

years before returning to his native Cuba in 1949 ang

obtaining various positions in the engineering field, one of
which was project manager for the construction of the
Havana Hilton Hotel.

Reacting, to the excesses of the military ruie of
Fulgencio Batista, Ray organized the Civic Resistance Movement
in 1957’ and began supervising sabotage and acts of terrorism
against the esi His political posture and active
resistance to Batista was recognized by Fidel Castro who,
upon assuming control of the government of Cuba, appsinted
Ray his Minister of Public Works in February 1959.” Within a
few months of his appointment, Ray confided to two agti-castro
Cubans that he had recognized the symptoms of Communism in

the Castro regime but was not prepared to conspire against

“El Lider Maximo."

DR DB BQ RBA SfB BB WR WR ZW

Ray's tenure in Castro's government was short-lived. He

A state Aa i 7
was relieved of his official position in November 1959, No

inh RETURI
Classification: "Stamey D

14094 * Bo Not Reproduce
| Classified by derivation:

I SF LT I I a I  .:
| $O-{1F3-10 4B

~  N

Ze

:
r |
f
é
é
f
,
bm


" BA ABB ~~ . eN

ee

DART ~ 11/3/7@lagifiteiBii: Rivero

B. Palmer - page

(This form is to be used for material extracted
definite peacetime been documented but,

according to one source, ‘Ray did not leave Castro because ‘of
ideological or policy discrepancies but rather because of a
personality clash with Castro's Minister of Labor who almost
shot Ray after a stormy Cabinet meeting. ® Another theory
about his leaving was that he opposed Castro's plan to declare
Hubert Matos a traitor and execute the Cuban revolutionary
hero with. whom Ray had been associated.”

For whatever reason, Ray did continue to permit his name
to be associated with the Castro regime” until May 1960
when he formed the Revolutionary Movement of the People (mrp}t

The MRP wasanti-Castro organization which believed that.
the ideas and aims of the democratic left best suited the
needs and aspirations of the Cuban people. .It did not wish
‘to reinstate the 1940 Cuban Constitution, rather it favored
continuation of the laws passed by Castro at the beginning of

his xegimel?

and nationalization of all utilities.14

Associated with Ray
in this underground organization were Raul Chibas, Ramon
Barquin, Rogelio Cisneros,?° Rufo Lopez Fresquet and Felipe
pazos. 16

Organized in each of Cuba's six provinces, the MRP was
considered the most important underground group.?7 Working
in tightiy organized cells, the leadership in one province

was unaware of the identities of their counterparts in other

Classification: RETURN TO CIA
one Background Use Only
4085 | Classified bRaNeiReprocUce

and ‘advocated the regulation of.private. investment

ee

I I LI I LI LI MI LI Ms


j
f
:
‘
é
¢
§
§
é
f
(
‘
IN

a 4 42 2 LE ae

DRAFT — MANUEL. RAY RIVERO - 11/3/78
Page 3 Classification:

in other proviffiestone is ThebsdRdensaqedridneanktd of sabotage

from ClA—controlled documents.)
and was supplied with explosives sent by launches from big

Florida Keys.?°

Having waited until May, 1960 to organize his resistance
group, Ray was. criticized as being suspiciously tardy to the
anti-Castro movmement. 7° Charges of "Fidelism without Fidel"
were made against him and the MRP because of their leftist
ideologies. ?+ Perhaps for these reasons, Ray's background
was questioned by some in the State Department?” and the Miami
CIA station? when, in the summer of 1960,'he was being re-
cruited by the CIA in Cuba to become a member of the Frente
Révolucionario Democratico (FRD), a newly formed anti-Castro
organization sponsored by the cra.?4 The Agency considered him
an important political asset”? and facilitated his clandestine

entrance into the United States°

on November 10, 1960.77
Nevertheless, there was internal conflict within the
CLA about Ray's political compatibility to United States
government policy. In a CIA Memo for Record, dated November 21,
1960, one Agency officer declared, "... Ray did not politically
represent anything to cheer about.*78 A CIA officer who met
privately with Ray in November, 1960 noted that his political
posture was "doubtful" as far as U.S: government acceptance
was concerned ,~? and a further assessment portrayed Ray as so
far “left in his thinking that he would be as dangerous to

u. S. interests as castrd?°

Classification:

| Classified by derivation: ___

MT LF LI LF &F LF 7 TF

i‘ _ SVR


IT I I I LI LF Ly Le Mae

DRAFT ~. MANUEICRASsHication: tL / 2/72

Page 4

(This form is to be used for material extracted
Some pronfioneftA-Cubetrpllechdqueentalso expressed negative

opinions about Ray, among them Dr. Jose Miro Cardona, president
of the FRD. Miro opposed Ray because he considered his
program too Marxist3! and declared that Ray was bitterly
anti-American as well as probably totalitarian in his think-
ing.32 Manuel Artime, head of the Movimento Recuperacion
Revolucionaria (MRR), noted that Ray's group was opposed to
banning the Communist Party and in favor of "nationalizing
everything. "33 Although aware of his controversial political
philosophy, the CIA continued to actively recruit Ray to join
the FPRD?4 because the White House and State Department pushed
for his inclusion.35

Ray received full operational approval as a "political
asset" on February 7, 196136 put resisted joining the newly
formed Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC) just as he had

resisted inclusion into the FRD. He said he felt the members

. of .the CRG were-too restrained and he did:not want to become

a part of a situation in which someone else was running the
show .for the exiles.37 G&euever) Fnree weeks before the Bay of

Pigs invasion,” Ray was persuaded to join the CRC as a show of

unity. 38

In recalling the events of this period, Ray told HSCA
investigators that he was aware of the fact that certain in-
fluential and wealthy Americans, among thea former Ambassador
William Pawley, were opposed to him and that a lot of heavy
propaganda wa lassification: ea accusing-hin-of being a
Communist. 39 2001037 | Classified by derivation:

x

Fea Tes GF ae .


Classification:

DRAFT — MANUEYTRAYod VERS be dhe 3i67 Qnaterial extracted
Page 5 from ClA—controlled documents.)

’
Ray withdrew from the CRC shortly after the Bay of Pigs

invasion. In a Miami news conference on May 28, 1961, he said

the major reason for the MRP break with the CRC was that the
Council had failed to live up to the written promises given

it in March, outlining conditions Ray had insisted upon before
joining the organization. 4° The first condition had been that
the Council was to give first priority to the underground
fighters in Cuba during the Bay of Pigs invasion. Secondly,
Ray had insisted that anyone too closely associated with the
Batista regime would not be used in the invasion. Also, he

said, he was to have been allowed prior approval of any appoint-

f
6
6
6
6
p

ment of invasion military leaders. 41 Ray told the assembled

newsmen that ‘his program to overthrow Castro was based on

maximum mobilization of the discontented people inside Cuba,
and that he thought the leadership of this underground should

come, from Cubans ‘who could prove they had access to such a
42

potential force.

Ray sought CIA support for the MRP independent of the

44

organization but needed material and financial support. Ray

felt the MRP.had to be allowed to plan its own operations and

broaden its base of financial support to include sympathetic

Latin American governments. 45

He was totally opposed to another
46

Ti invasion ie caHcation:

Ee BBR BBWS BDA BAD BW WW

20023089 | Classified by derivation:
4D £9 £9 £9 £9 £9 £9 2 &F au

6 Couneil, 43 claiming that the group had an effective underground


a> > Oo > Oo © & © & DS & >

DRAFT - MANUELCHaysdif#ieation2 1/3/78
Page 6

(This form is to be used for material extrocted
The Miami femClaraonsalledtosumenttivled Ray be given an *

initial $50,000 for operational expenses .47 Reaction at
CIA headquarters was immediate: Within 24 hours a Memo for
the Record was circulated, objecting to the Miami Station's
recommendation and claiming that Ray did not ever produce any
substantial military actions against Castro.48 Ray was told
to submit a "prospectus" of his plans for the MRP and advised
that no financial help would be forthcoming until such a plan
was reviewed .49

Ray went to Puerto Rico about July, 1961, where he

received sympathetic support for the MRP from the Governor

- of that island, Luis Munoz Marin, who personally liked Ray.90

While Ray was in Puerto Rico, a member of the MRP underground
in Cuba reported to the MRP Executive Council that he had been
in contact with the CIA and was told by the Agency that no
meterial resources would be available for the group until

Manuel Ray was dismissed as general coordinator .>1

Charging
the CIA with repeated interference in the affairs of the- MRP,
Ray resigned so that there wouldn't be any obstacle to the
group's cohesion, 52

In October, 1961, the Puerto Rican Planning Board an-
nounced that Ray had accepted a $12,000-a-year position as

consultant to that Board.53 ‘Although there was no evidence

that the Puerto Rican government was supporting the MRP, Ray

was looked upon with great favor by Puerto Rican officials 54
{ see ge ;
and he endeavor gSsification? -ose—mae—wrer-cuben exiles residing

there. 55 2804089 | Clossitied by derivation:

LF LF £9 LF £9 £9

— — —8,


DRAFT =. MANUELCHE ification: 2/3/78

Page 7

(This form is to be used for material. extracted
Although freirAatodtrdleddotlenhdtional leadership of the

wt
MRP in April, 1962,°° Ray began formulating plans for a new

anti-Castro organization, Junta Revolucionario Cubana (gure) >?
which, he said, would be only political in nature.>® Ray

freely admitted that.this group, organized in July, 1962 a

=a, ‘“E. GA.

would cooperate with the CRC but ultimately hoped to dominate

it, 9

Concurrent with his JURE activities, Ray began

| The degree of Ray's success:in this area.is

not documented, but his: efforts: continued. into the summer of

1963 and involved and
4 The Chief of Station in was so impressed

by Ray's abilities that he recommended he be used more

extensively in this capacity.°>_]

In June, 1963, the CIA inaugurated the concept of
“Autonomous Operations", under which JURE could be financed
independently, not through the ere.©® Military operations

were also initiated’ with Rogelio Cisneros as JURE military

coordinator. °Classification:

2001030 | Classified by derivation:
LY LF LF 2 &F FF a FT .


DRAFT - MANUED essification: 21/3/78

Page 8

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Under his interpretation of the "Rules of Engagement of
the Autonomous Operations", Cisneros felt that JURE was not
obligated to report its military or political plans to the
CIA but that the Agency was obligated to finance JURE's
purchase of military equipment. ©

By the fall of 1963, Ray was devoting his full time to
JURE, 7° traveling extensively in Latin American countries to
gain support which would allow JURE to mount resistance

operations inside Cuba?!

Ray told this Committee that he
and Cisneros were in Caracas for this purpose on November 22,
1963. He remembers that the assistant to the President of

day and announced that President Kennedy had been shot. /2

In January, 1964, Ray's organization was making plans

73 and, at the same time,

to move their operations to Costa Rica
‘establish a guerrilla training base in venezuela.’4 He also
began: to formulate plans for his own infiltration into Cuba?®

declaring that he would turn the operation of JURE over to

I Ee

Rogelio Cisneros during his absence. 7®

Classification:

2001041
DI LI I I a a aa

Classified by derivation:

A Venezuela came into the JURE meeting shortly after lunch that


_ Were heavily patrolled by Castro forces and by the British who

oogefine of..$14 was levied on each member. of. the group and each

DRAFT ~ Manuel Ray Rivero
Page 9 Classification:

nay's stolen dg geo tatH cane ne gute
his job in Puerto Rico and’ dropped out of a His in-
filtration plans were known throughout the miami Cuban exile
community. /®soon the story spread to Cuba where Castro ordered
a full-scale military alert and rounded up scores of suspected
Ray supporters. te

After several days of bad weather and dodging Cuban patrol
boats, Ray and his crew of seven? "including a reporter-
photographer team from LIFE magazine, ® landed at the
Anguilla Cays, 40 miles off the Cuban monet ee There Ray
intended to make a final ‘equipment ‘check and a final radio

83

transmission.

Because of their proximity to Cuba, the Anguilla cays

owned. them, °4 The British discovered Ray.and his group and
their cache of weapons and explosives, arrested them for illegal

entry .into the Bahamas and took them to Nassau.®° The minimal

was admonished to never tresspass again. ®©
Upon his release, Ray said that he was as determined as
ever to infiltrate Cuba: "Fidel knows me," he said, “and he

7 » 87
knows I'm coming?

Classification:

2001093 | Classified by derivation: _______

ene enna Lae

TMM Mae ee .


DRAFT - MANUELCRAX sifitution:

Page @'j0

(This form is to be used for material extracted |
Compound itagm Rays oPFoled aveunieans.) the. reyelation by the FBI
t

and U.S, Treasury that Rogelio Cisneros had illegally purchased
$50,000 worth of arms for JURE from a California arms manu- |
facturer, It also caused the. CIA considerable tae
The Agency denied knowledge of the purchase to Revenue |
officials ands because of the autonomous nature of its relation-
ship with. JURE, did not make. any attempt to stop Revyenue's

Bai? |

investigation. The. Agency: now, however, told Ray that he

would have to move all his operations outside U. S. territory. 2"
In order to shore. up his: waning credibility within the

Cuban exile community, Ray again tried to infiltrate Cuba in

July, 1964 but, again, his boat developed motor trouble and |

egi2
the plan was abortea,°* The failure this time led three

All these events, from May through July, resulted in a
CIA decision to stop financing Ray until he ceased all

activities from the U.S. mainland’ ®* The Agency authorized a |
final payment of $75,000 to the group to facilitate the Pee haa
thereby “closing the books" on gore °° * |
Ray kept his organization together until August, 1968 5997

although it was relatively ineffective. He personally main- |

tained an interest in anti-Castro activities, In 1969, he

| Classified by derivation;

4
6
4
6
4
p
g CLINI |
6
4
4
6
6

SE ME LE LE LE LE £2 £2 LF


—_ewlTrllVT Ol Oe | ha) a 6h 0)

DRAFT- MANUEL Classifigatio 73778
Page ta ‘

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from.ClA—controlled documents.)

called togethera congress.of Cuban exiles to create a new

organization % As late as. 1972, he was actively engaged “in
the formulation ofthe People's Revolutionary Party, hoping
to reinvigorate the anti-Castro eee but it, too, failed
to make an impact. a

Ray still resides in Puerto Rico and heads his own

: Aeneece : ‘i : 99,108
engineering consulting firm in San Juan.

Classification:

EB ABA BSBA BSB BA eA BW

2001095 | Classified by derivation:
a LF I LT I 9 I  &F .


a EF YF TY SE LF SY LY MF *~

ro.

ll.

12.

13.
14.
15.

16.

Ibid

‘Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library

Classificationyse $5

(This SPORT RAY UREVEROmaterial extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)
,
CIA/Deputy Diz or Operati DDO) {Manuel Ray Rivero (Ray)
Volume II, (Cable to Director from MASH) 11/17/60
ASCA=tAeessS, FBI Manolo Ray References,
Section 2, u~ CTEK Dott 006468)

USEA-#009005, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78,

Interview oo Manolo Ray Rivero frem Fonzi/Gonzales
CSFE Rxtumed 004005)

Ibid.

Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library
Edition, p. 91

0, px-2, FBI Correlation Study, Manolo Ray,
File #97-4546, Section 1.,p2,7 (at Document 005440)

CIA/DDO Ray Volume VII, Memo from former
manager, ] dated 716/62

CIA/DDO, Ray Volume IV, Information Report, 3/16/61,
Subject:. Background, Character and Economic Concepts of
Manuel Ray Rivero -

Edition, p. 92

HSCA-#009805; Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78, Interview
of Manolo Ray Rivero from Fonzi/Gonzales , CaF FE pocumat
CIA/DDO, Ray Volume VI, 6/9/62 study of program for
liberation of Cuba submitted by Ray

CIA/DDO, Ray Volume II, Cable to Director from MASH, 11/17/60
Ibid:
CIA/DDO, Ray Volume II, Organization of MRP

Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library
Edition, p. 92

New York Times, April 10, 1961, Castro Foes Map Multiple
Forays, by Tad Szulc
Ibid:

a

Ibid Classification:

Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library Edition
CIA/DDO, Ray Volume IT ,ContactJRepor tyfnRul J
10/17/60, Subject: MeetThg with Juan Esteves’ and Jorge Ber

ew eawenrweuwunur

ed a a a aw we a a


4

"za A ”A @B WDB

Hate Ee = Eieau ae a

Footnotes — Matabshitdtbne?

Page 2

22.

23.
24.
25.
26.
27.

28.

295

30.

32.

332°

34.

35.

36.

37

38.

Ibid.

39 re HGEA-4009005, Memo to G. Robert Blake, 6/28/78, p. 4,
ot n Interview pedi giaarionrey Rivero, €xom-—Fonzt/Gonzetes
2014097 (atid DdCuent 004 00S)

(This form is to be used for material extracted
CIA/DDO, fRany C¥oLumetrdligd Memmetits.) WH/4 Chief from Acting
Chief, WH, 9/27/60,. Subject: State Approval to Include
Manuel Ray Rivero into the FRD Complex.

CIA/DDO, Ray Volume I, Cable from MASH to WH/9, 9/29/60

CIA/DDO,.Ray Volume 1, Meeting with Raul. Chibas, 9/7/60

CIA/DDO, Ray Volume II, Cable to Director from MASH, 11/5/60
CIA/DDO, Ray Volume II, Cable to Director from JMASH, 11/11/6

CIA/DDO, Ray Volume II, Memo for Record, 11/21/60
Subject: Meeting with King and Esterline on Subject of
Handling MRP

CIA/DDO, Ray Volume II, Cable_.to. Director from MASH,
11/17/60 : :
io}

3
CIA/DDO, Ray Volume V, Memo for Record, 6/2/61, Subjec
Relations with Manolo Ray and the MRP fro

CIA/DDO, Ray Volume III, Information Report from U.
Citizen, Free- lance writer and part-time sugar iaibfaahle
12/22/60

cra/p00, Ray Volume Iv, Memo to S - Dr. Berle from
ARA - Philip W. Bonsal, 3/16/61, Subject: Recent Cuban
Developments:

CIA/DDO, Ray Volume IV, Cable to Bell from JMWAVE, 3/1/61
CIA/DDO, Ray Volume II, Cable to Director from MASH, 11/17/60

Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library
Edition, pp. 172-73

CIA/DDO, Ray Volume IV, administrative form shaee

BEE
HSCA-#O89G85, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78,“Interview
with Manolo Ray Rivero, frem-—Pomzt/Congales (Fic Recast)

CIA/DDO, Ray Volume IV, Memo for Record, 27 March 1961
by Gerald Droller, Subject: Ray Accepts Appointment to
Council ....

a ee ee

| Classified by derivation:

SoTTTeavTae.


4

Footnotes -. Maetak SHE otto?

Page 3

(This form is to be used for material extracted

40. New York frim6sh—spat6yléd doomentsban Group Quits Exile Body
by Sam Pope Brewer .-’*

41. Ibid.
—_—_

42, Ibid,

44, CIA/DDO, Ray Volume Me Cable | to Bell from OMWAVE,
4/29/61, #0923 (& bsernclaten 25}

45. Ibid .

46. Ibid,

47. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume V, Gable tae Bell from JMWAVE
5/4/61, # 1312 (ce~ oa

48. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume V, Memo for Record, 5/5/61 from
Calvin Hicks, WH/4/PM/Operations

63
49. fe a ve V, Memo for Record, 6/2/61, from

. 50... CIA/DDO,, Ray. Volume VI, Memo for Record - SECRET, 12/19/61

Subject: Miscellaneous. Items Discussed: with Drs Miro.on
18 December 1961 (42% Daud

siotig

j :
51. New York Times, July 17, 1961, Cuba Exile Group Criticizes
7 by Petér Kihss

52. -Tbid,
pie crag

53. CIA/DDO, Ray Vglume VI, Memo for Chief/WH Division,
- 10/20/61 fron _Psunject: General — Cuban
Matters; Specific - Manuel (Manolo) Ray

54. — Ray Volume VII, Cable, 7/2/62 to Director from

55. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume VI, Memo for Record, SECRET,
19 December 1961, Subject: Miscellaneous _items discussed
with Dr. Miro on 18 Secember 1961 (~

56. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume VI, Revolutionary Movement of the
People: National Leadership, 4/20/62 C# os J

57. CIA/DDO, VII, Memo for Chief, Task Force W
from ROPES ESC g (at 3 3/25/62,Subjeet+ Manolo Ray

Meeting in New York

2001698 | Classified by derivation:

43. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume V, Memo for Record, 96/2
Relations with Manolo Ray and the MRP, ‘ron

x

uw

p
$
,
j
p
f
f
:
F
f
Zi

a LI LE LI LL



_ ae SE GF LF EP EF <a tay x
Footnotes ~ Manuel Ray Rivero
Page 4 Classification:

58. CIA/DDO, (Riiy frordindo vheryserteiao maserial iexiroctedsk Force W
from AL free Ctodxiniisled day.ne72, Subject: Manolo Ray

Rivero i;

59. CIA/DDO, JURE Volume I, Cable to Director from
] 7/25/62 Cs we QUE $20)

60. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume VII, Memo for Chief, TAsk: Force W
from Alfonso Rodriguez, 7/12/62, Subject: Manolo Ray Rivero

61. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume VII, Cable 7/25/62
62. Ibid,

63. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume VII, Memo to Chief, Task Force W
from Alfonso Rodriquez, 8/24/62, Subject:

64. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume IX, Cable to Director from Paris,
6/19/63, #77272 5

65. (CIA/DDO, Ray Volume_IX, Dispatch to Chief, WE, from
co 2/63,{Contact Report on Meeting with Manol
Ray in 13 June 1963, signed

66. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XVI, Memo to Director from Chief/WH
Division, 7/9/64, Subject: Chronology of Concept of
Autonomous Operations and Summary of ee Support
to Manuel Artime

67. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume X, Memo for Record, 8/23/63 from
Alfonso Rodriguez, Subject: Ray Contact Report.

68. HSCA 40096657: Memo to G. Robert Blakey, AAEY sTArF
. Intervigy, with Manolo Ray Rivero by-Porrzt/conzates , p.7, ,
cr 0 CLameand 04008) a
69. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume X - Cable to Director from JMWAVE,
9/11/63

70. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XI, Draft, 10/4/63 by Rodriguez,
Subject: Manuel Ray Rivero

71. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XI, Cable to Chief, Special Affiars
Staff from JMWAVE/CS, 10/22/63

72. HSCA #009005, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78, start

Interview with Manolo Ray Rivero, by-BonrifGonsates (IFC
Detar OOFOOS)
73. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XII, Cable to Director from JMWAVE

1/14/64

74. crasono, Glgssificntion: —s.terrigencetnformation Cable,
2/4/64

2001094 | Classified by derivation:
> 4 LF LF 7 = y 4 a ew FY 2

AA BADD BSB BW SB iA OW,


4
4
4
6
6
4
S

4
6
6
6
4

aa ME ea
Footnotes ~ MahgdsiFidatight?

Page 5

(This form is to be used for material extracted

75. CIA/DDO, eee to Director from JMWAVE

3/28/64
ry

76. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XIII, Memo for Chief, WH Division
4/14/64 from Alfonso Rodriguez, Subject: My Meeting
with Ray on 13 April 1964

77. Time, The Hemisphere - Cuba, page 48, June 12, 1964

78. Ibida-

79. (Ibid.

80. Ibid!

81. CIA/DDO Ray Volume XIV, Cable to Director from JMWAVE,
5/20/64 and Ray Volume XV, Cable to Director from
JMWAVE, 6/3/64

82. Time, The Hemispheré - Cuba, page 48, June 12, 1964

83. Ibid,

84. Ibid

85. Ibid,

—

86... Ibid +

87. Ibid.

88. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XIV, Memo for Record, 5/20/64 from
Samuel Halpern, Subject: JURE Purchase of Arms

89. Ibid:

90. Ibid,

—

91. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XV, Memo for Record, 6/29/64 from
Alfonso Rodriguez, Subject: Establishment of Base
Abroad, Manuel Ray Rivero

92. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XVI, Cable to Director from duparr, ]
7/15/64

93. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XVI, Wire service printout, Miami,
Florida, July 24, 1964

94. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XV, Memo for Record, 6/29/64 from
Alfonso dri Subject: Establishment of Base Abroad,
Manuel lass ation:

2661100 |

Classified by derivation,

LY LF SF LF £9 £9 FF FF

Wa Bd RBBB DADRA BM BW DW


fe

" A A PQA BW

Classification:
Footnotes - Manuel Ray Rivero
Page 6
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
95. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume.XVII, Autonomous Operations -
Operating Plan s
96. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XVII, Memo for Record, draft,
9/22/64 from Alfonso Rodriguez
97. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XVIII, Cable, Cite WH/Miami, #2233
6/4/69
98. Ibid. STARE
99. HSCA #009005, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78,"Interview
with Manolo Ray Rivero, GFt DOCUMENT
1008
100. Ibid. 004
101. Ibid,
——
Classification:
2001202.

| Classified by derivation:

LF LI LI LI MI MI La a

RR DO DBR BPD ER ABAD BD BB OB
