# 180-10145-10263

## Page 1

180-10145-10263

JFK Assassinatio | System

Identification

orm

Agency Inform ition

Date:

4/19/201

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10145-10263

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTIO:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 54-07-03A

Document Info mation

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: CIA

TO :

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/20/1978

23

CIA, FILES

MEXICO CITY STATION

•CIA, METHODOLOGY

DOCUMENT TYPE:

NOTES

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/01/2003

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 29

Nw 17055 DocId: 32273050 Page 1:

---

## Page 2

TO:

MM.

Goddsmi th

Select Committee on Assassination

louse of Representatives

Room 3331 House Annex # 2

And 41 Streets S.h.

*Nash.: D.C. 20515

THE DOCUMENTS LISTED HEREON ARE

FORWARDED

FOR:

TRANSMITTAL AND, DOCUNENT RECEIPT

ISCA

FRCM:

Office of Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Room 7 D 35

Washington, D.C.

20505

27 April 1978

INFORMATION

CONTROL NUMBER

ACTION.

7kXXT

LOAN

RETENTION

DOC. DATE

SUBJEC

(Unclassified preferred)

20 Mar 76 ilotes of Hardway & Gildsmith & Wolf

Dillenger & Gestatoes

C000253-0000275

CLASS.

SECRET

C0 413- 1546|

SIGNATURE (acknowledging

receipt

of

above

documents)

RECEIPT

RETURN TO

DATE• OF RECEIPT

ORM

1876 3772B

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ROOM 7 D 35 :.

WASHINGTON, D.C.

20505

I - WHITE, RETURN COPY

2 - PINK,

ADDRESSEE HOLD BACK

3

- CANARY, OLC HOLD BACK

NW. 17055 DocId: 32273050 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Record copy

SECRET

KENNEDY

OLG RECORD COPY

Address

City/State

Date of Birth

Social Security

Physical Descript:

Height

Weight

Ethnic Group

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

20/78

Lace CIA/HQ

telephone

lipouse

children

COlor Eyes

Hair

• pecial Characteristics

72+4595

Personal History:

BOMBITED

2. Present Enployment:

Address

Telephone_

b.

Criminal Record

1. Arrests

2. Convictions

additional Personal Information:

Pelative (s): • Name

Address

b. Ares fraquented:

co tinaits:

Investigator DAN HArd

say, Mickzy Göldsmith + Betsy

w0l7

Date

Form

SEC RET

• 0000253

NH

47055

Doc1d: 32273050

Page 3

---

## Page 4

i Miches eti pring

"the release litterno

he had been the headaf the

Sorriet histian Jof the mesico

City ltation is 1957. His main

dutynsas to get information on:

boriet persosinel and their

petities done

3. recognition

sageactivities.

counter es goals m

Irestetner i as responsible...

of the tarret Embass

boriet personnels and e

wasalso uponsibile for

obtaini

diting information thoug

personnet and thorough

agents who were in contact

0000251

---

## Page 5

2.

Among sportan

to Mr. Isestetiensfattention

Both Ma Desetner and

that in renali

transcripts, rosial the

tayes on the lorist Embassy.

althoug

She the English.

were usually recieved later

than the spanish ones

Ma Killenger indicated that

she hard a'" orking kangledge"

ofspanish.

responsible. fans reporti

the infor

ion he develope

He indicated that areport

would either he i

hearts office StRET

0000255

DocId 32273050

Page

---

## Page 6

13

SECRET

In 1963 Mrs Dillenger]

was workingtona

part time, cont

at basio]

She indicated th

he tran =.

scripto un

Explonges

referedit to

hertelness i che Coa

carbon copies of the transcripts

in jellor paper extracto

rom the transcapisten

put into ap

priate subject

on "P" files?

that o chas

"ological faile

inscript.was.kept

They were less sure but

thought that suche file

was also kept on. the

production of the

repast cant picts hubject

files usere designated bya.

four part

sumber (ex: 00-00=0=

SECRET

0000256

---

## Page 7

4

SECRET.

Both Dill nges

*restetner;

indicated thirtien

al at station They

i Some

of the tags protoners rein

Iclose workina relationship

with

ana_

permanel sesaid thana

ting the ta to do go

reun

noone else todo it.?

---

## Page 8

SI CRET

-5-

the tarnise

photo surveillance was

malfunction.

That See

They said

at it to get petitine

of ever tie the embassy.

rus of the contier.

mo.

motion prepared

personalito presments orally

47055 DocId: 32273050. Page 8

---

## Page 9

SEGREE

v in writhing seperate

from the tran

remembere

ations lin

e that you

withe

nithin

vas not chases contac

did.not

did not, as a the transerto.

no rule dis schize

seperate

did indicate that

did make the notation

0000259

---

## Page 10

SEGRET

about Osia da Russian

He said that he had never

et ordered a

Abear he

make age me met

said that

isas an etact

ups transcribed.

suite to the that.

Embaisy but at the pignate

residency of dariut afficials.

Mo Sistetney sand that

there were no penetrationn

agents. in

witter the Sorriet

ensulatelors Military

attachis offices I

Dellengeriandibestetner"

said that the f thad no 00260

055

DocId?

---

## Page 11

•SECRETS

thesis.

Sarat

tee nestricted

meetings, assau

personality ersalua

tions, and an are occasion

trainsmittal of the tapesent

ALet

the urge

the

They Dave Phill.

bath said that

and that he mas effet of

The

explager

had trebled that he

replaced

as Chief as Culian

operations trut were

unsure of the time shey

described Phillips açan

aggressye, actre

said that hea

0000261

---

## Page 12

27-3 Al

SECRET

hotography, Ti

said serge and tine.

the head of tie erico, desk in

and that

As the so, their recollictions

on the Mexico.

desk. They said that the infor

the muse ld hange gone

there was

terest ivolved.

a foreign embarry earilal not,

---

## Page 13

SECRET

notated that sucha

in late sinner

Emploger

They nestem

siment.

Estones

Cubartetin

so an analyst in the

the recru

agents He worked bott

TED LORIN

usas

g of

the "clicke"

trat enjoyed

Scotts absolite confidence

and.was.mivelued.ing

the sensitive sustallang.

aperations...

SECRET

0000263

---

## Page 14

11

SECR T

Euplines.

stetnes

thinks he mas

the photo

the borie

Emaligen

ranthe

Employeshe

Scal suasilhance tearn

was a

technician involved in

mostaf the

operations, if

not allo the tres said that

cheonly to

I he saw th

he woot

before

re-use

Mr. Lestetner said that

dentit

enversaty

the transcript. He does not

recalleresunstructing

not to make marge at co

STORET

6000264

---

## Page 15

SECRET

said

theis training as intelligence

officens

independent recollection.

to theis attention Allenger:

indicated that hersenemory

wat that the das

information

that she had

recieved arit Aswald.

was theat

th was sickin

indicated bustetner

ng.

reviewed the file perion.

his recollection was that

the first notice that they

sation star gandon

They were the thomanit

0000265

---

## Page 16

4-3.-

NO SECRET

silenger did not call

ramses

timist have freen

the or

becan se of the

anita df the infor When

wed whether there wasa

reference to as visa in the

laged that she ancho-

heysmemory.sh

to so plate memory to

recurrma

She said?

2273050

---

## Page 17

SECRET

infor from priortran-

checkin

no recattectio

're photos. afte

the stations file

cable (Mexi 6133) and, at the

ow. thetran

she first?

sesta

that a te

acknowledged.

ing instruction

directine

one of the 9/27

consersations to the Osuald

0000267

DOcId:32273050 Page 17

---

## Page 18

15₴

SECRET

been made at the stir the

the "p" file.

siened. Bath

prim ten to agassio

must hoc

photosE she was shorna

photo of th mmm. and.

aid the thought that that

was the main the was

Kazing to describe She

since (swald nad indicated.

---

## Page 19

-16

SECRET

also have bain sevrewed

shealso said the

'DIR 74830)

were

made when the cable wa

recieved an not.after

the assassination th

carve been

nation seque stial had been done!

---

## Page 20

17

SET RETE

superblement have

proof, as otherwise she

woulo

not have used

he mas dean

When re

to the date of this me go

---

## Page 21

18

SECRET

the

did sany the pot i

ias ve

this holy unlikely that

with Dave Phillipe owledged

heard that, ivan

to the effect that, HO was

photo of susald lustene

positive. He then net vasted.

iscinswer.condidenied.even

ng,on hea

nor,

td had had.

steiner said that

taken by a terrest in Russia

---

## Page 22

19

SECRET

pledged.

explained

givi

aid Oativer as by saging.

that there can be errori

He noted thait the inference

was that tire date wais

September 28.

Neither Sestetones nar.

152202

Emplogee

Theywere arked algat

the reference in MeXI025

Acud

that a cind a dan

this u

0000272

Do01d: 32

73050--Bage 22

---

## Page 23

20-

SECRET

Seneties said that

he did not tendi whether

the conisensation ofi

bestetin, couldnat

which he act!

Mexi 7033

mailedgedd

unition

said that all abo

available had liang?

reported pe

en the 9/27

onversations, the sisit had

nat been reported. He can

Mexe7.034,

9/28/63

Sestether

that it piet

ild have been

have uni

enough en 1405

at least o tines and not have

been picked sorty the plate?

47055- DooId: 32273050

---

## Page 24

operationes continally.

a routine

it was not spring to

ragona

to his requeit faroo photo

sara that

Soviet embassy alone is

possibility. fa foreign.

caspira insoleng

When shown the

and that statemen

6000274

---

## Page 25

= SEMET

released

the 100 DIA

SECRET

-0000275

NH 47055 DecId: 32273050

Page

---

