# 180-10146-10031

## Page 1

180-10146-10031

THIS COPY IS

FOR RELEASE

pisale ditto.

Hid am, contri il semi

Mozera (e curam)

(712) (prate telegio tir

comer lister ex/none

incastrat y Enzineringt

Ecmoncia

2) Valentin Doglios

11L11205

Man fa the faina

is fain 60%

Suljeit: 1110

La Birch Si Heal

10146-10031

---

## Page 2

Deni Solis 4 Cognitico

t comito

Albert Inu, Refrence amore to

chas abendy arranged fa Rogas intr

po letta allacted

Meno fa pele

Ci/516

Suged: LH0

20 2e 63

11111836

a complements te rent allent,

una tappez telepano in Prefico.

Comee Ced.

---

## Page 3

dieter to.

and cinder montane

to ve poss

He is quite denis it line ot

least in its pans- is the

i tight to med

it on agreed Papichi the

Bishineint an a cocato fin

1:1HC

Caller Paper Tadain i toes hen to

a Gett mood fu the peliggip

Cit had mange to the bar effect

On 5 Dei PapuR W211118201 ChiT

attacke

dear anderson;

arian coff

0-e0004110

Clan, is polo go pitas alone.

---

## Page 4

J..

Memo fath Reend...

38445

Saly: 0.LH75

Englace+

a matte to le reudent dietn

( ce

n Crica

poly it it ca

- officit requet itat we hand

the fintentiat pilgr

Papers sac it was i thi

getting consellenbe pressi on too questin

soon asperibli

men on recal 21 nons

'real adore Paper that

was not turnis

metican Nodensin hid teen renter

inthe subject

11111268

a Telestaten Papitata

nate tre

median cating in the alsoned

---

## Page 5

Papi calle tah lite y mitht

70'nea

dented this

Papec calla back and saud itit

retuinea to Me.

autontes i itat ) eian interrogte

t polygraph

Papuch caller lah y ated what

TIER

cheik

egust. Cable west ai?

decape: de then Tele

un Bra de metidato

mediatil

1 1611P39

---

