180-10093-10010)

N

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

Agency Information

9/21/201

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: — 180-10093-10010
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 008954
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: FBI
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 05/02/1978
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
CAIRE, RONNIE
FBI, FILES
ROBERTS, DELPHINE
OSTER, JOSEPH
RABEL, LUIS
NITSCHKE, IVAN E.
DOCUMENT TYPE: OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: — Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: = Withhold
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/02/1993
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : 162-8. Box 162.

v9.1

AW 50955 Docld:32254952 Page 1


KENNEDY

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

DATE 5/2/78 TIME Noon

I. Identifying Information:

Name Far =H Telephone

Address

Type of Contact: __ Telephone
a x Person

Ir. ‘Summary of Contact:

On the above date, I reviewed files on the following _

individuals: Delphine Points Roberts

Ivdn E. Nitschke

Joseph, A.- Oster

Ronnie Caire

Luis Rabel

There was no_pértinent information on Ronnie Caire other

than he registered as an agent for the New Orleans Chapter

of CRC in Décember 1961. File reviews on the other

individuals are attached.

On June 1, 1978, I completed the file review on

the MIRR ~ Sections-5,6, and 7. This review will be

attached. to the information garnered the previous week at

the FBI.
Til. Recommended Follow-up (if any):

Team #2 should revi Se! ph.A. Oster file, as it

deals with Teamster Local #5 eee eee

Partin in 1968. :
HW 50955- poor Sannab yee baglSeToy [a “Form #5



FBI File Review
June 2, 1978

DELPHINE POINTS ROBERTS

Miscellaneous References

Ll. #157-401-495
Memo to Director from SAC, New Orleans

Delphine Roberts picketed outside court house in New
Orleans. September 25-October 2, 1962 during Fifth Circuit
Court of Appeals hearing on James Meredith's attempt to
register at the University of Mississippi.

Information on her at that time: White female, age 43,
1441 North Miro Street

The group of picketers were members of White Citizen's
Council under direction of Guy Banister and Associates.
Banister spoke to picketers at 10:50 a.m. on September 28.
Picketing was orderly and peaceful.

2.  #157-4-33-601
Report from New Orleans dated 11/14/61
Integration, of Public Schools in New Orleans Parish, LA.

On the first anniversary of integration of New Orleans
schools, members of the White Citizens Council picketed.

Mr. W. B. Graham of Louisiana Sovereignty Commission sat in
his car and spoke occassionally to Mrs. Roberts. Report
made by Lt. Curtis Gaudet, Fifth District Police Department.

32 Memo dated 9/25/61 - President Kennedy scheduled to appear
in New Orleans. The "Save Our Nation" organization planned
to picket City Hall on May 4 at his appearance. SAC New
Orleans working closely with a representative of Secret
Service. Delphine Roberts one of the organizers of the
picketing.

4. Report from New Orleans dated April 26, 1965
Subject: Marvin Kombar

Kombar's wife reported he was mentally ill and belonged to

4 an organization headed by Delphine Roberts that was so
right-wing they made the John Birch Society look like
Communists. She said this group had a forum at Radio
Station WSMB - a call-in program. Mrs. Kombar said her
husband was residing with his aunt and had a small printing
business on Baronne Street.

5. In 1959, Delphine Roberts was National Defense Chairman,
Robert Harvey Chapter, National Society, Daughters of the
American Revolution.

NW 50955 Docld:32254952 Page 3


PBI File Review
June 2, 1978

IVAN E. NITSCHKE

1. Report dated 3/20/58. from Salt Lake City
Subject: Merton Wertheimer

Indicates Nitschke was to manage Riverside Hotel in
Reno, Nevada, owned by Crummer Corportation.

On February 4, 1958, Wertheimer was interviewed and said
he hired "Bill" Nitschke on reference of John Burgas,
former SAC, Detroit. He understood from another source
that Nitschke was a "trouble shooter" for FBI and worked
directly out of Mr. Hoover's office.

News article, Nevada State Journal, February 4, 1958.
"During his 11 years with the F.B.I., Nitschke spent
seven years.as administrative assistant to J. Edgar
Hoover."

Nitschke had an industrial consultation organization in

Los Angeles... He was born in Austin, Texas, married with
two children (1958 article) and graduated from Texas A & M.

NW 50955 Docld:32254952 Page 4


FBI. File. Review
June 2, 1978

JOSEPHA, OSTER

Report dated 7 16/68
Statement of Joseph A. Oster = age 39, DPQB 11/18/28
New Orleans

President of Joseph A. Oster and Associates, 809 Audubon
Building, New: Orleans, Employed.by State of Louisiana
Labor Management Commission of Inquiry, circa 8/1/67.
Since 7/1/68, employed by Department of Justice, State
of Louisiana (LMCT).

Oster was hired by LMCI to investigate violence in
labor management field. Also, to identify persons

who violated state and federal laws with regard to
extortion, bribery: and other forms of criminal activity
which. ‘led to distruction of property of companies and
individuals doing business and residing in Louisiana.

‘Teamsters Local #5 was main contributing factor to
violence in Baton Rouge industrial area, Leader of
Local #5 was Edward Grady Partin,

Oster signed an affidavit charging George 0. Wyatt with
perjury. Wyatt was an undercover agent for LMCI under
the direction of. Raymond Ruiz and Oster, On July. 30,
1968, Wyatt claimed efforts. were being made.-by James
Hoffa to get Partin to change his testimony.

Wyatt claims Oster and Jack S. Martin (real name, Edward

Stewart Suggs) were harassing him as a result of his
affiliation with Partin,

HW 50955 DocId:32254952 Page 5


- FBI File Review
June 2, 1978

LUIS RABEL

1. Report from New Orleans dated August 3, 1962
Subject: CRC, New Orleans

First two pages - third agency deletions.

Article in July 21, 1962 New Orleans States Item says
local Cubans and a shadowy American adventurer working to
set up a guerrilla training camp near Covington. Article
was referring to Jerry Patrick Hemming - sponsored by New
Orleans CRC. Says Hemming made regular trips to New
Orleans, slipping in and out of port secretly in a modern,
well-equipped. P.T. boat.

Article further states an anonymous U. S. Patron offered
Cubans and Hemming a large tract of land with an air strip
on the north shore of Lake Pontchartrain. Luis Rabel con-
firmed that Miami CRC had "nixed" the Covington base.

2. Airtel to Director from SAC, New Orleans, dated 9/26/62
All of a three-page attached report deleted - third agency.

3. CIA memo dated 11/20/62 deleted - one page.

4. Memo to Director from J. Walter Yeagley, Assistant Attorney
General, dated August 2, 1962.

By letter dated 7/4/62, CIA advised Luis Rabel Nunez is

an authorized representative of CRC in New Orleans. At the
present time he is engaged in taking a census of Cuban exiles
in New Orleans area who are available to join the U. S. Army.
Further advises they have no interest or knowledge in Rabel's
activity in recruiting William A. Pennington for military
service against Cuba.

BW 50955 DocId:32254952 Page 6
