# 180-10140-10267

## Page 1

180-10140-10267 g

anti disarik, Chrio.

theddd?.9.098640

: 9 d. 72.9.892.

o::21-09.11--199.51

JFK BoRd

For 1 40

Her #z

ast committee on Ace:

CuP. Mouse et Ricot

1576

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUWENT

72 4455

•до.

Me. Pataick Carpentier

0e=ic: 01 the Ionisiative Counsel

conceai Inceiligence agency

washington, D. C.

Dear i. Carpertica:

In connection with its investigation into de circut-

stances surrounding

the death of Presideri Kerraaz: the Selece

Conmittee on Assassinationg requests access to cia

files ana

file references pertaining to the folioning indiriduais:

Edvara jay sostein

2) Nervin Kantos

1) Parianaddpastia

In addition, please provide the Committa: ith access to

the following information:

5)

Any and all investigative reports pregnase bare.

Howard tunt pertaining to the john E. nearest assas

sination. (these resorts vere not nucossarily presi

pared during the period of li. Hunts employmert

with the CIA).

6)

The file that was prepaced by the cia immerencero

E. Howard Hunt's alleged Fatergate-noliged coriviate.

The conmittce previously recuested access to all Cia files

pertaining to E. Hovaid Hunt in its lotter to on of January&,

19?5.

Forever,

Roger Gabrielson, of your stall, tas reguesto?

thạt the particular requests identifica above, be aut in mom.

The committce would aiso appacciate a rosperse faer sha

Si resarding the salerin wettie:

180-10140-10267

---

## Page 2

-trick Carpentier

- 1]

5, 1978

Edge

2

Jab to do It she cIa's written stacient replyingie the Committee's

request or February ea, 1973 forjan

criteria

that governed the Onenine Ca2251 1lnaEtae

ing the years 1955-64 was not casporaria so our incuiry.

because the Cit's vition statement e:

not foous on tre

relevant time Ferioc.

accordingly, 1: nerdrag 045

in the mont bret there

vere no criteria governing the openine ta such elles

during that period; tre Committee 20u

written statenent indicating trut that tin the case.

8) .

Ci: doswent 2563-216 Indicates that lance was adoor

ments transhould be in see Harvey Contre dia 2ie

ụt wich are missing fron the file.

furtherndre:

aucumant also indicates thut there sha:

a34 machine

listing of these documents attached an turn se document

1563-310, but no such liszing appears it

Select Cormittes On assassinations Rec-its trex the

CIA provide a listing of such documerte ca mail as a

written explanation of were those decannots are 10-

cated and

why they do not appear 1a 9ad e 201

Sale.

Fursuant to my letter oe Decarder 27, 2477:

I would Like

to note that the docamont referred ic :

this parag-ega

is a classified document.

9)

Pites having crieved bötr the document:

gen tasted ta

materials that were Independently mads

under the Privacy Pot, it is apparent that the fires

which were made

available to the Corabicad tan 20t in-

clude HIRINGUAL materials...As the Commanded bes

aiready requested all information contained to yous

files on the individuals who are the aajecto da ou=

requests, please revier the files that

Tie here pre-

viously made available to us for the prose or erst

ing that all of the information pertainary to the

individuals involve has, in fast, beer

at to do XIinally, the Committee vould like to incarcent and persona

soviet Ruesion

ThiSion

massley os

Station o= that perioa.

The Conmittee regreste

• siderin

---

## Page 3

Patrick Carpentier

April

5, 1978

Dage 3

either make these persons arizabie for our ca...

or provide their last krom address

so that ta

c:..

directly.

otheretha:

crease

ther

Thank you for your contaguing cooperatio..

sincerely,

G. Robert Slure

Chief Counsel and Sirensor:

GRE: bwd

---

