# 180-10142-10084

## Page 1

180-10142-10084

THIS COPY IS NOT

Misund

sii-410

FOR RELEASE

630x23

assification:.

Falder 5

(This form is to due used for material extracted

from ClA--controlled documents.

CIA HAS NO OUTECTION TO

#6.

DECLASSISIQATION AND/OR

THIS DOCUMENT

RELEASE BR

290

AS SANITIZED

Appendix 3: HSCA Procedural Write-up Mexico Trip 2

House Select Committee staffers Edwin Juan Lopez

and Harold Leap traveled to Mexico City on August 7,

1978.

The staff members were met by David I. Patton, a state Defial,

atment

X

at the Mexican airport at 10:15 p.m. Mr. Patton

then checked the staffer ne sees da the Maria

P

Isabel Hotel, Le[StetnEela, fCIA Chief of Station in

Mexico City, wished to see us at 8:30 a.m. the following

morning.

On Tuesday, August 8, 1978, Committee staffers

met with Larry Sternfield.] He informed the staffers

that the two individuals.the Committee wished to inter-

view,[Daniel Flores, aka Luis Aparicio and| Ramon Alvarez

Durant " were now available.

At 9:30 a.m., August 8, 1978, Committee staff mem-

bors, intorvice banny Flores!" see write up off Danny

Flores, interview.) The interview ended at approximately

10:15 a.m.

Committee staff members returned to Mr. Sternfield's

office, Mr

sternfield stated that it appeareathat terra

the GOt Mexico

had only been able to locate two witnesses for the com-

mittee, Oscar Contreras Lartigue

'and Noe W. Palomares!"

Cessification:

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

142-10084

---

## Page 2

desert

chit tastes

dancer

Classification:

(This form is to be used for maierial extracted

from: Cla-controlled documents.)

sternfield l

291

He asked the staff members whom they wished to speak,

The Committee staff members explained that they would

it appeared that the House Select Committee on Assassina

the indirduals

tions had already asked the Mexicans to locate them. listed

Mrd Steinfield]stated that the HSCA's interview

with [Ramon Alvarez Duran was considered "highly sensi-

tive." He explained that three rooms at a nearby hotel

would be used. In one room, Ramon Alvarez Durant] would

sit, Committee staff members would sit in a second room

and two CIA personnel officers would insure that the

equipment worked properly in a third room. Mr Stein-

field then phoned Mr. Niles Gooding, who had been sent

to the Mexico City Station] from Headquarters to arrange

the procedures for the interviews. Mr. Gooding explained

that in 1977 Stansfield Turner had created a new posi-

tion at Headquarters to insure that important sensitive

meetings were within the guidelines previously arranged.

Mr. Gooding stated that the Central Intelligence Agency

had been under greater Congressional scrutiny tich the

past two years. Therefore, Director Turner, in order to

demonstrate the Agency's good faith, had engaged a retired

Classification:

271

Clossitiod by derivation:

---

## Page 3

Classitication:

(This

form is to be used for material extraciod

from Cla-controlled ciocuments.)

292

Army officer to act

as liaison at sensitive interviews

by Congressional representatives. Mr. Gooding then ex-

plained that HASA staff

we would be escorted by two CIA personnel

to our interview with Ramon Alvarez Durant.

At 10:55 a.m., August 8, 1978, Committee staff mem-

bers interviewed lamon Alvarez Durant! ' see fear 2-

_varez Durant interview write-up=)

At 12:30 p.m., Committee staff members telephoned

Captain Fernandez Ventura Gutierrez. His secretary

explained that Mr. Ventura was not in the office, but

that. she would have him call us when he returned. At

6:30 p.m., since Mr. Ventura had not yet returned the

staffends call, they again called his office.

His se

cretary apologized for Mr. Ventura and explained that he

had not yet returned to the office and she assured us

that he would telephone upon his return. At 9:15 p.m.,

Dr. Jesus Yanes, the Assistant to the official mayor,

telephoned the staff members explaining that Mr. Ventura

was very busy on an important assignment and asked us

Police spastian.

Knowin as the

to visit the Procuraduria General) at 11:00 a.m. the

following morning.

At 10:15 a.m., August 9, 1978, Committee staff

members met with State Department Official Richard Howard

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

