# 180-10142-10045

## Page 1

180-10142-10045

v09-16-96ccr

JFK RECORDS

CrOSS Reference: None

Status in System:

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10142-10045

RECORD SERIES : CIA SEGREGATED COLI ECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 22-20-02/2

Other Agency Equity: None

DOCUMENT IN FORMATION

ORICINATOR : ESCA

FROM

:CIA

TO

TITLE

DATE

00/00/00

PAGES

DOCUMENT TYPE

8

: REPORT

SUBJECT (S)

: ¿ ¿ AMMOG; CIA, FIES;

CIASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

POSTPONED IN PART

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

* 08/07/95

COMMENTS

: Box 11

Date in: 01/26/96

TTFFFF

FE

FFF

F

F

F

F

F

NH 47055

DocId: 32271349

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Item 2-2

12

CiA NAG NO CEUECTION TO

DUCLASSIFICATION ANDIOR

PELEASE OF THIS DOOUGENT

as redacter

ASSMU / 1

As cited with regard to Luisa Calderon, a defec-

tor from the Cuban Intelligerce Services provided the

CIA with significant information about Lee Harvey Oswald's

contacts with the DGI in Mexico City. This defector

was assigned the CIA cryptonjm AMMUG-1 (A-1 hereinafter).*

CIA files reveal that A-l defected from the DGI

on April 21, 1964 in

•) When

he defected, A-l possessed a number of DGI documents which

were subsequently turned over to the CIAl

EN 68894,

24 April 64) Following his defection, a CIA officer,

Joseph H. Langosch, went to

Sto meet A-1, dearier

him, and arrange for A-l's travel into the United States.

(See supra cite.) On May 1, 1964, 22 reels of Langresh's '

debriefing of A-l were forwajded

to the Chief of the CIA's

Special Affairs Staff from th

Effective on May I.

A-l was under contract with

the CIA for operational purposes. (Contract Approving Of-

ficer memo, 6 May 94) By June 23, 1964, Langösch was

convinced that A-I would be if great value to the Agency.

He stated:

There is no question n my mind that AMMUG-1

*It is now known that A-i dirl provide significant leads to

the CIA regarding

Luisa Calleron.

It is further apparent

that little of this informa:ion was made available by the

CIA to the Warren Commission.

Therefore, the possibility

exists that A-l had provided other information to the CIA

that was relevant to the Wa:ren Commission's work but that which

was

not properly reported to the Commission.

NH 47055 DOCId:32271349 Page 2

---

## Page 3

- 2 -

is a bona fide defecter or that. he has

furnished us with accurate and valuable

information concerning Cuban intelligence

operations, staffers, and agents. (Langosch

memo to Director of Security, 23 June 1964)

As an officer of the DGI, A-1 from August of 1963

until his defection was assigned to the DGI's Illegal

Section

JIN 68894 24 April 64). This section

was responsibile for training agents for assignment in

Latin America. His specific responsibility pertained to

handling of agent operations in El Salvador. (Personal

Record Questionnaire 4 June 1364; Otta In 68894 24 April

64)

identifredsforde clA

A-1 knew who were the juban Intelligence officers

assigned to Mexico City. In this regard he intially

identified Alfredo Mirabal, Manuel, Wet, and Rogelio Rodriguez

and the Commercial attache as DGI officers posted at the

Cuban Embaosy in Mexico City. (supra) Langosch described

A-l's knowledge of DGI operations in Mexico as follows:

In Mexico City, he knows who the intelligence

people are.

One is the Cuban Consul Alfredo

Mirabal.

He is called the Chief of the Centre.

That

is his title but he is actually the

intelligence chief, or at least he was until

the 16th of April at wich time a replacement

was

sent to Mexico to take over. This fellow's

name is Manuel Vega.

The source says that the

Commercial attache

whose name is Ricardo Tapia

or Concepcion (he is not sure which is an intel-

ligence officer) and another one is Rogelio.

(I might say that some of these names are familiar

to me.) (p.

5 or reel 1, 23 April 1964, debrief-

ing of A-1, 30 April 61)

WH 47055 DocId: 32271349 Page

3

---

## Page 4

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR:

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

- 3 -

e bad thus, A-1 was able to provide the CIA soon after

AS

his defection with accurate information regarding DGI

operations and DGI employees in lexico City.

' The Committee has reviewel the CIA's files con-

cerning A-l. This examination wis undertaken to deter-

mine: 1)whether A-1 had provided any valuable investiga-

tive leads to the CIA pertaining to the assassination

of President Kennedy; and 2) whe:her, if such leads were

provided, these leads and/or other significant informa-

tion was made available to the Wirren Commission.

The Committee's intial reriew of the materials

provided by the CIA to the Warre, Commission did not

disclose the existence of

during the course de

etS 10G fIleS. However, the

committee did review amfile containing material passed

Rockefeller Commission.

that file eated re-

enthis file was

ference to AMMUG-1.: Aris included a memorandum of May 5,

1964 written by Joseph Langosch which concerned informa-

tion A-1 provided about the Oswald case. (Cite supra FOIA

68-290) Also contained within this file were the A-1 de-

briefing memorandum of May. 7, ani May 8, 1964 previously

cited with regard to Luisa Caldecon. (Cite) Following

review of the memoranda, the Comnittee requested access

to all CIA files concerningelf referring to A-1.

From

review of these materials the Committee has

determined that the Warren Commission did learn during

mid-May

1964 that Lee Harvey Oswald probably had come in

NH

47055

DocId: 32271349 Page 4

---

## Page 5

- 4 =

contact with DGI officers in Mexico City.

Prior to learning of Oswald's probable contact

with DGI officers, James Angletor, Chief of the CIA's

Counter Intelligence Staff passec an internal memorandem

to Raymond Rocca, also of the Counterintelligence Staff.

Angleton wrote in the memorandum that he had been informed

by the DDP, Richard Helms, that J. Lee Rankin had contacted

John McCone. to request that the Director consent to an

before

interview by the Warren Commission on May 14, 1964. (J.

Edgar Hoover also appeared before the Commission on that

date prior to McCone's appearance.) Angleton also wrote:

I discussed with Mr. Helms the nature of the

recent information which you are processing

which originated with the sensitive witte toff

Hetee source.

I informed zim that in your

view this would raise a number of new factors

with the Commission, that it should not go to

the Commission prior to the Director's appear-

ance unless we have first

lad some preliminary

reaction or made sure that the Director is fully

aware of

the implications since it could well

serve as the basis for detailed questioning.

The DDP stated that he would review this care-

fully and made (sic)

a decision as to the

question of timing. (Anglecon memo, 12 May

1964, FOIA 689-298)

Undoubtedly the White Hous: source referred to

in Angleton's memo s A-1. The conclusion is based

in

part upon the date of this memo wlich is quite close in

time to A-l's defection..

In addi:ion, on May 14, 1964,

Director McCone did appear before the Warren Commission.

At Angleton's request, Rocca's stiff prepared a Brief

NN 47055

DocId: 32271349 Page 5

---

## Page 6

- 5 -

for Presentation to the Warren Commission outlining various

positions adopted by the CIA vis i vis its investigative.

efforts and assistance to the Comnission. (Brief, May 14,

1964, FOIA 695-302A)

At Tab E of McCone's brief i: states:

Within the past week, signif: cant information

has been developed by the CIi regarding the re-

lationship with Oswald of certain Cuban intel-

ligence personnel in Mexico ('ity and the reac-

tion in Havana within the Cuban Intelligence

Service to the news of the assassination of

President Kennedy. , The Commission Staff is in

the course of being briefed on the Cuban as-

pect (cite supra May 14, 1964 FOIA 695-302A) .

The significant information referred to therein is

the information A-l provided.

on May 15, 1964, the day of die McLone's interview,

the Warren Commission received its first formal communica-

tion regarding A-l. However, the Agendy did not at that

time identify A-l by his real name or cryptonym nor did

the Agency. indicate that the source of this information

was a defector then residing under secure conditions in

the Washington, D.C. area.

(See May 15 Letter from Helms

to Rankin FOIA. •

The May 15 comnunication did state that

the Agency had established contact

"with a well-placed individual who has been

in close and prolonged contac: with ranking

officers of the Cuban Direcion General de

Intelligencia." (Cite)

Attached to the May 15 commun cation was

a copy of

Langosch's above

referenced memoraldum of May 5, 1964 re-

NN 47055 DocId: 32271349 Page 6

---

## Page 7

- 6 -

garding Atl's knowledge of Oswald's probable contact with

the DGI in Mexico. City. (Cite above.) The attachment

made no reference to the source's status as a defector

from the DGI.

As set forth in the section: f the report concerning

Luisa Calderon, on June 18, 1964, loward Willens of the

Warren Commission reviewed Langosh's May 5 memo

and

the questions upon which the info mation set forth in the

memo was elicited. Neither the questionsor the memo shown

to Willens made reference to the jource's status as a de-

fector collaborating with the CIA. (Cite Arthur Dooley

memo, 19 June 1964, FOIA 739-319) .

Based upon review of the Lan josch memoranda, the Com-

mittee has determined that significant information regard-

ing Luisa Calderon was withheld fom the Warren Commission

(Cite Calderon section). This in ormation was derived

from ::. debriefings of A-1. (Ci:e May 7 and 8 Langosch

memos.) From the Committee's review of the A-l file pro-

vided by the CIA, the Committee his not found any credible

evidence indicating that other in ormation provided by A-1

to the CIA was relevant to the wok of the Warren Commission.

However, in its review the Commit ee has determined that

are

specific documents referenced in he A-l file. la not present

in that file.

One

The missing item of considerible concern to the Committee -

47055

DocId: 32271349 Page 7

---

## Page 8

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

a seraced. This

is a debriefing report of A-1 entitled

"The Oswald Case."

(Dispatep

CIA dispatch

5035, 23 Marct 1965) On Maxen 23, 1965, 2

records the trarsmittal of the report, along

with eleven other A-1 debriefing reports. (Cite supra.)

Next to the listing of the "(swald Case" debriefing report

is the handwritten ritation "SI." A CIA employee who has

worked extensively with the Agency files system balian the

waste Symbol tal

Knana eis

this notation # stand fer the CIA componentr Special In-

telligence. Other cIA representatives bedieved the gotd.

tian ta stand for the CiA sam ponent seceitt Intelligende.

Other CIA representatives believed the notation was a Ie-

ference to the Counterintelligence component CI/SIG. In

a CIA memorandum dated -

_ it us stated

Quote Barbara's memo.

The Agency has been unable to locate this document

and therefore the Committee cannot pass judgement upon the

substance of the missing materials..

The Committee has queriel A-l's case officers regarding

additional information that A-1 may have supplied about

Oswald: Joseph Lanogsch when interviewed by the Committee

stated that (HSCA staff interview Joseph Langosch, August

21. 1978) he did not have contact with the Warren Commission

and does not know what information derived from.A-l's de-

briefings was supplied to the Warren Commission.

Hidalgo and Piccolo.) He als, stated that he does not

intervenes

(Cite also

NN 47055 DocId: 32271349 Page 8

---

## Page 9

1100298

2A953007004

1061A3,

as salacter

- 8 ∞

interview.)

In a further effort to clarify the substance of informa-

tion that Alive provided to the CIA regarding Oswald, the

Committee has attempted to locate AAMde. The CIA has also

attempted to locate allut (give date of separation from ClA)

but has been unable to determine his present whereabouts.

A-1

Thus, gaps do exist regarding information AMMUG may

have supplied the CIA

A about Oswald

But On the basis of

exceptior the Calderon

episode,

provided the Warren Commission with at Thformation

of investigative significance.ff A broader question remains

however. The Agency, as noted earlier, did not reveal to

the Warren Commission that A-l was present in the Washington,

D.C. area and

, under controlled conditions accessible to the

Givingdue considerat.on ta

Commission. Even considering the CIA's serious concern

for protecting its sources, the fact that A-l's status was

not disclosed foreclosed the Warren Commission from exercising

a possible option, i.e. to take the sworn testimony of A-1

as it concerned Oswald and the Kennedy assassination. On

ins laterally a the ted those to i pron it co

the Agency

option.

hava danasó

Htichoula.net

The erA didnt fall, in A-I's case, the

enormous problems-establish: g bora-fide as it did with vosenko.

emperintey In light of the establishment of A-l's bone fides

(Cite Langosch's quote supora), his proven reliability and

---

