# 180-10145-10158

## Page 1

180-10145-10158

- SECRET

Leslie wizelman

DDO

3/13/78

Eduardo whitehouse

The file contains the following documents and information:

O whitehouse was instructed by Us, personnel fur the

inuasion

to cuba in 1961.

@ spears- Spanish, Italian, French fluently.

3) 1959-1960 residence: Biltmore. Terrace Hutel, Miami Beact

@1961-1963-Insurance salesman.

@ Jan 1 1963 - Junel 1964- operations manager-pilot-tur

Panaven Airlines.

6 on Oct 26, 1964- Provisional Opperatunal Approval

granted under project (WITHeWHUnge

@ PoA expired 26 April 1964

@ Is June 1965- file on Whitehouse was cancelled.

@ A It was reported in July 1969 that Whorehouse

and an unidentified American were attempting to hire

.. Cuban pilots in the miami area to fly a F-51 Aircraft to

El Salvador. Whitehouse offering to deposit $20,000 in pilots

bank acount prior to departure for El saluador if pilot

agrees to fly plane

to El saluader and in combat.

du A tune ay, 1971 memo reported that Whitehume was

in miami and had some infu which he would like to pals

onto the CIA.

SECRET

Zac

180-10145-10158

---

## Page 2

.........:

SECRET

Victor Dominador Espinosa Hernandez

DOB 8/26/37 Cuba

POA for Zenith I0/I7/6I

4/18/6I

POA canceled I0/30/6I

clearance cancelled 5/15/63'

zax original POA granta I0/I7/60

28 SEpt. I960-1

for MCADRE for project JMARC

there is a restricted CI/OA folder on Victor in his 201 C; 85593

June I6, I965

Cable From 15-2.

Jorge Robreno aka El Mago on 6/16/65 tald Inu Brengel that Spanish authorities

had allowed him to travel to Paris to see Espinosa.

Espinosa c;iamed lie had been sent to Ra Europe by the CIA.

Robrena was concerned that Espinosa aware of Cuebella plan to assassinate

CAstro.

Robreno said he had word from Cuebella taht Alberto Blancho aka El Loco told'

Cuebella on his return to HAvana thath USA has not helped but hurt effort

Blancho believed that AmIASH group had not recieved any financial backing while

other less organized and with ltd. following had received support.

Blacnho claimed ther group the on;y one with inside capabilities for aciton.

SECRET

BR

---

## Page 3

E SECRET

Nado: Gonzalez De ToRRes AlUAReZ 3/26/34 -

POA -3/10/61-5M/ATE

allen contoct 6/16/64

BRigade 2506

3/26/34

Day y Pegs ransomed 12/24/62

INS Conders Repert 3/67

10/2/67

Rene Car ballo callo Bringies states

he thicks head a traching Camp. at

Ponchantian was

"El Mexicano" I suna

accompanied 2H0 to Mexcel-.

unether

мене.

C- was #2 w/ 6-2-Cuba- No iden

---

## Page 4

Jan. 1963 - Ashmann reprecented Hemmuy

on Neutralety violatien.

Michael

M'hANCY

ConNection to Wallace Groues

3/20/01 Ua.

Freeport-sere 194>

1966 - Res, o Graad Bakaua

Port auth, Freepant sederal

Authents ; Fregant Educaten

Authouls o Frespost Trist

Co.

CSA

4/11/66 fon 06C

aduson on sfreex el

Proet E. 1

S87C5A-4/12/72

Edward K. Moss- gount ks fon oc

Manuel Antonio Varovas nane appears u

FBI LHM. 1/18/61- Moss ao assut.

"Moss mushes

Dino-brother - prated Ol casio n Cula

Under Batista-

cellinis → Moss offer i to

siti Varon a Camil) furene ante Costo ppor

---

## Page 5

w/ mos.

W. Howad Chass-busines connection /

moss.

Aneucan Businessman (Moes past Pos. of

Publié Relatin's Sociel,

y America) cartarted

by moss to raise if for

Varena

Goseph h. Miller-w/ Moss- wash.

DINO.UINCeNt CellINI-11/19/14

Casmos Tropicana + RIVeRa

05. File on Wallace Groves 147328655

WoRBell

1967 requiet of GC No recordo on subet

SR/CA, RID, 01P/ DOAS

Life Mas

23/67p.66

MM sues Kaplan

lants (Arthes6)

-SE

---

## Page 6

UNACINEM

2-23-78

SEGRET

wAckenhut

5/1960 - coven for Wester Here here

employees assisred to FLA.

1/21/61- C5A

411967-severed

NO. N.O. ofue

201

89885

Frank Bartes = 9114/20 cuba

7 rancisco aNtoNio ClaReNS BARtos

former pus

1161-88114 Cutt Raleago-

11/15/65--pmfPlotI8]

10/28/66-eaneled

Jure 1962 - BCS N.O. - Laurence foreph

LaBore, Gecald M. Hemming and Howard

Kewneth Davis pol. Bantes rei tracing

Baits says Sabondo-anti-cin-

Head I CRC

Now O. delesate a MDC Jose Manual Cusco

ANY PRQ II-shous Buite, EEt intonent to de Brey,

---

## Page 7

SEGRET

Bantes contidi

June 25 uy Heny 1 Sabor de

- Carlos Rodrigues Quesada- reccundita

Alten fon SaBando to pales -

Heron collins

IA. Roy gh bought

LIA. ROY-

LABORDE

schooner fin

references

Rafael Ballestero-Paped City so Datota

Douglas SinSer-1582-1218 Whuey Blas. NeLA.

Brice Hancode -el Campo Th.

WillIam C. DAvIs - N.Y.

Fausto Valeds - Haban Fra

FBI

fuse 23,1983 repont Bartes

Rudolph Richand BAu's

deses 1H40 + Minutemen-

NOCIA

House-

Aberto Fernandes - 104 Bistay a

par que en chuse reca faun

Carlo. DeARmas

---

## Page 8

temny.

SEGfET

10

Shaw in May 9,1961 prossan

cheurimar inho dueas Chanles p. Catell

for N.O. Foreiom Policy assos.

Evenelt Gondow Schaoffer (phonet)

allegedly. took depos. fien fenne -

Roy Emsry Hargiaves -

2-14-48Mo.

7/ Auly 1970 - OPHT RoyH-

so

to 55 t opedt wy Joseph

Gasquez chief Inteel Unt rei

plot

by SATIAGO te misals

3/1/37

Hangiaves Mani avrest foe gein

.smusslios-

10004

---

## Page 9

Lawrence Howard-

Henneg -1969 - Trainy 1 Black Pan thors

plis to mexica apparentes en contact

W/ Hally Howand

Aka aloN zo

ESCURINO

sombreao key-Fla: 12/5/62

PICO RIVERa - Cal.

2/90/67

Quhn Greavey calls on behalf

of Col. White for info Hallt Howard-

Beckham

Modeet Resistance

Howand.

12226 PiNCUille, EL. MONtA

Acao Amares Pedroso > 201

DominidoR

---

## Page 10

4/1962 dischansed for secunt, reaso

formese master of TESANA I

owver also former agent

POR PCSA

3/24/61-JMATE

4/24/62 caraled

817/18- Alßert Fernandez

DOP contact

Finandes 12/1960-

•He ChAVARRIA

:1/31/66

---

## Page 11

SECRET

Carlos Eauardo Hernandez Sanchez

I960-I90ї

20I File

3rà Agency documents

20 September I967

INS FOrM # G-325

INS file number A-I2-437-215

2. Name check of June 29, I965

3. FBI May I7, I965

Classification secret

Subject: Roberto Alejos ArZU

sents luis Sierra Lopez

neutrality matters -IS Guatemla

Fbi file number 2-380

4. FBI-Octiber El 28, I963

Subject: Carlos E. H. Sanchez

no file number given

when ind Edend Sanches

Niell winne

Biographical Data

10/15/34

DOB

sp/ 1950- went to N.Y. for I month on vacation

Edueation: I953-I957- Lasalle, Vedado-B.S. Science

1957-59-began studies at Villanueva,

belonged to the A.C.U. (?) met

Artine and

organized against Batista.

Involved In various

clandestine

activities

opened front in Pinar del Rio to fight against Batista,

trained others t

there.

After Batista exiled, Carlos re-directed front to

fight Castro.

(later Pinar del Mt Rio front merged to become MRR)

In February of I959 Carlos went into the Sierra Maestra with Artime to work

with commandos in INRA for three

months then returned to Havana.

July I959- CArlos continued

studies w

SECREt Univeratty and worked with the

underground

---

## Page 12

G::

4612820: *

L'arIos

Nov. I959- Underground work forces carlos to leave cuba. At the airport, carlos

with two friends are arrested. und Jailed, arrested with Carlos

two friends: Jose Rodriguez

and Jose Quintero.

Friend in high position aided relaes of Carlos and two friends. They continued

on to Miami with

tourist visa.

(believed

that Commandante Raul Arguelles Diaz Chief of DIR(Department of Rebel

Investigation aided in release.

Nov. tax I959- Jan I960 Carlos remained as tourist In Miami. (Front ? gave subje

us subjects money. Cardos soid pistol.

Jan. I960 - Artime sent for Carlos

and Jose ? Rodriguez to Join him (Artime) in

Mexico to work with him on counter revolutional artivities against

Fidel Castro. (PP (probabbly political propoganda) and recruiting

through Mexican Catholic organizations.

Feb I960- Carlos made PP trip with Artime to Central America and South America.

(Carlos acted as. bodyguard for Artime-) CArlos karate black belt)

March of I960- Carlos returned to Mexico k and then went on to Miami-

(note- inquire as to hotels, people visited, ? about embassy personnel)

April I960- Carlos recruited for P.M. tr ining by ENZEL -Jimmy SMith

(In file others wou Carlos can be turned over to:

_"Clarence"

" Roger Fox"

"'Peters"

_ "TOM"

"LArry"

" RIP"

Carlos aware he was working for k the CIA

Received full series of training in Clandestine operations,

Raider and guerilla operations, maritime operations, and airdrops.

Limited foreign intelligence duties, DRE mission Cuba

Use: PP and PM & (emphasis on PM- supply, organization, training, tactics,

technigues

clandestine, guerilla raider sabotage within Cuba.

Carlos dia not know agency personnel by true name. a paid trainee, with a specil

ability to handle and understand arms-$200 montzy, SECRE

---

## Page 13

{333-60-P0A

SECRET

Carlos granted POA-April. I960: 0A April 4y-I962.

avocational interests: auto, Judo, sharpshooting

•, 40 4 4N8.000006689011

me care: * dia.

(CArlos had indirect contact with Raul Diaz Arguerelles during revolution)

I963-I964- Carlos In Managua Nicaragua z; with z: see sheet #2 of Os notes)

Feb 23, I96I- considered for project Zenith- arrived at JM/FIG

Nax given ploygraph for projects PM CADRE

JM RSE ARC

area Wil f4 Cuba

Political affiliations: Member MRR

Past: LAR-Legion de Accion Revolucionaria -secret revolutionary organizatioin

founded and commanded by Manuel F. Artime. (CAtholic Organization)

Commission Revolutionaria de la Universidad Cathabica Villnueva •

Contacts with the 26th of July Movement and the Revolutionary Directorate

during the resolution. (often worked together).

SECREL

---

## Page 14

SECRET

Jan 3,65

TO:

INS

requent to ie-parole "strunded" Cubras cuto.

NS.- ni to letteas a12/9/63-2125/64, 71311641-8119167

Apparently starleí en Managua-Nicmagua

Canlos -

25-64

El pidro Belgado Soto

25/64

Lusto Vento Peraza

-25/64

Ayapito Ro)As Candenas

19/63

Manuel SaNtiesteBAN MAZA

EUSeNIO M. PeReZ CARmeNaty

-25/64.

HAROldo MORAN RIVeLO

-25/64

Eddy g. Azcuy BAlder

25/64. N useR Rosstles CARCI

Jose r. Dominguez Medins

Jose L. CAMpAl GONZAleS

gustavo podriy uez CARCIA

- 25/64

Francisco GuzmaN PAstraNg.

Carlos Herwandez Sanchez

MIguel . RIVeRO MARtIN

Radames S. I RIBAR MARtINEZ

Jonge Velezquez Canan

---

## Page 15

SECRET

Fron vol. II'

Pedro Diaz Lanz

1963

Pedro Luis and MArcos Diaz Kanz- atbempted to make air strike over Cuba

with aid of Fiorini. Subject? able to keep ? informed and information passed on

to local security agencies in time to thwart.

Leaflet drop planned July juxmoot 3I or August I. Fiorini and Diaz Lanz bros.

Palne located at Weir williams Ranch. Were to use Io0 paund practice bombs

cut down and filled with nuts and bolts.

MAY 2, I9Ó3- Marcos received telegram from Pedro stating financial assistance

received from past supporter in Washington- probably Cuban.

Fiorini tola Marcos he could a plane to be used on raid. and coula heelp.

Additional money being raised by Diaz Lanz brothers from the sale of 65 foot

Yatcht approx. $$XTON $ I7000

Sergio Rojas Santanarina- Castro 's Mibassador to I, ndon nay have sponsorea

Johnson- Fiorini- Rorke leadlet drop.

October 2I, ISI

December 8 and 9 I96I

D4C. I7, I96I

June 2I I962- Sturgis procures for Diaz LAnz weooens including 57 mm recoiless

rifles. and armunition. foom "upstate" New York.

July I4, I962- Quinto, connected with Masferrer group and Sanchez Mosquera

offered Diaz. LAnz 2, 5000t0 Kill Castro. Diaz Lanz declinea.

Sept. 30, I977- Cuban consulor official in Janica mentioned Diaz Linz as having

been involved in the Kennedy Assassination.

This is from Meemo FOR: S.A. /ADDO

From: Raymond A. Warren

Chief LAtin American Division

shiact: [2] HORIZON I -report.

SECRET

---

## Page 16

SECRET

-2-

Pedro Diaz LAnz cont.d.

Enrique Montero Iezcano- MC Cuba on Sept.24 staff meeting of Communist Party

in Jamical discussing security proplems and need to be wary of AntiOCastro Exile

groups mentioned Diaz Lanz- It is to be noted that the lorenz article appeared

on Sept. 20, I977 where she stated she drove to Dallas with Diaz Lanz, Johnny

Diaz Lanz, Marcos Diaz LAnz and Frank Sturgis to assassinate JFK..

Tird Agency documents:

FBI: 2-I566

I05 - 72630

248I

I747

2774

72630, 34768, 2348

97-4I94

I05-I598-Feb. 25,I963

# I05- 72630- April I, I9Ó3, Oct 2I, I963

In June of I963 Marcos Diaz Lanz invited Frank Sturgis to join raid on Cuba

using Moppy for June IS, raid with Carlos Carcia and Salvador Garcia Oller of

U.R.

Nov. 3, I963- Diaz Ianz in speech accused Kenneây

of being a communist

SECRET

---

## Page 17

Wizelman-Summary Status

Have not recieved those curcled

- NAMERFle

-_ Hunt -OGC

_cartone DDa

_OS.

_cellini

D.DO.

0S

Browder o5.

ascarey

0S

martind

_05c

um morgan

-OS

moss

OS

-merola

Rotbmaa

OS

REVIEWED

-SummARy

3 - 10-78.

_3-10-78.

3-2-28.

POSes 3/7/38

_3 - 3=28

nosummay

3- 2-78

3/7/78

3-3-78

3/13/78.

3 - 3-78-

3/13/28

pately tate 2/23/2.

tati

3-3-78

3-13-28

3-3-78

317178

3-13-78

3113/78

3 - 13-78

_3-13+78

3-3-78

3/13/78

*

D00

3-2-78

3-3-78

Withouse s

3 - 13-78

3= 13-78

_Growder:

DDa?

3-9=78

3-9-78

2anl

varona

000-

3-78

3/2/78

- Artime

Personnel

Varona

_05-

3/2/28

3/2/78

sira-newspaper

_Benton-so clipping._

-Benton: 000-222

_malaney 06c...

- Martino 000

morgan D00

3/13/78

3/13/28

DDO

_moss

masola

D00

..merola

_Whithouse. DD.

Varona

DCD.

appersure

3/13/78

3/13/28

3/13/78

3/13/78

mecaney.-

DDO. cara

DDO

OP/

Artime.

2/1,4/78

_ Benjamin Binion os

2/14/28

Louis KumeroS

Greenspun

5/16/78

5/16/18

82

_ SUBMITIED

3-10-78

317/78

3/7178

3/13/28

3/13/28

3/13/78

3/7/78

3/13/78

3/13/28

3/13/28

3-3-78

3/13/28

3/13/78.

3/2/78

317/78

3./.2/28

4112178-6

=4

3-22-;

received

RECEIUEC

-5/2278

3/10/78

3/10/78

3/22/28

3/10/28

318178

3.110/78.

Sert

3/13/78

3/13/78

3/18/78

4112/78

16

5/150t9/28-

5/80r19,

---

## Page 18

reviewed

John martiato..os

summary submited

5/161?8

5/16/78

Gerdon-melenden

5716/785/1-6175

7=5/16/28

G quane

Back to

recerved

5/17/78

=....

---

## Page 19

SECRET

Biography

Arrived U.S. May 5, I960

Granted POA I0/18/60 for participation in Anti-CAstro operations. -

Terminated March 20, I96I as makcontent.

CIA has had no contact since then'

July I963- involved in the purchase and cachaing of 2400 pounds of dynamite

IDO pound practice bombs and other material; part of plot to bomb shella

Oil Company refinery and other targets in Cuba. FBI felt ariel attack effectivel

thwarted by seisure of munitions N AND AIRCRAFT. No cri minal action was

contemplated.

Meno for the record:

July 7, I965

Subject: telephone

conversation with Serzio F. Madinabeitia on July 6, I965

Subject called I

subject

case officer on July 6 to inform him of important information. Histor would not

subject

discuss this over the telephone. RoB. asked sister if he could travel to D.C in

two days, said he could not, but emphasized information too hot to let alone.

Subject was cllaed back at 3:45

and stated information concerned Victor Espino

who was presently in New York and "worked for the agency:" and had just returned

¡from Paris and spain

and had to see someone in the agency.

Subject gave Eppinosa's address as 4I5 East 52nd St., NYC phone # HAI 7875.

Subject called again to say Espinosa was at home and suggested someone call him.

Subject told Espinosa would be called on July 7.

Alleccia discussed Espinosa with wH/C/TC personnel and advised Espinosa was a

malcontent and was not to be contacted.

..-....

July 9, I965

SECRET

---

## Page 20

SECILA

SECNET

Jan 1963-Ashmann represeated Hemmus

on Neutralety violation.

Michael

m'LANCY

ConNection to Wallace Goues

3/20/01 Ua.

Freport-sue 194>

1966 - Res. of Graud Babama

Port luth, Freepont Medical

Authant ; Fregoant Educaten

Anthowly o Freepost Trist

Co.

CSA

4/1/66 fox 06C

1

Project WUMUTUAL

GEM CSA - 4/12/72

Edward K. Moss gount is fon oc

Manuel Antonio Varovas nane appeais i

FBI LHM. 1/18/61 - Moss as assut.

- Mass mushes

Dina-brother- Maled Oc casio n Cula

Under Batista-

cellini → Moss offer i to

Varana (2 mil) frace ante Costo ppor

---

## Page 21

voracinem

2-23-78

SEGRET

wAckenhut

5/1960 - coven for Westem terphere

employees asusied to

FLA.

1/21/61-CSA

411967 - severed

No N.O. office

201

Frank Bartes = 9/14/20 cuba

189885 7rancisco ANtoNio ClaReNs sAntos

former Pus

1161-88114 Cultan Palerays -

contact use appioned POA-IMATE

5167-P04 10/7/65-E63)Alsts

1115/65-pmpPelot (Afrea

10/28/66-eaneled

SEGRET

June 1962 - BCS NO. - Laurence Joseph

SaBore, Gerald f. Hemming and Howard

Kewneth Daus sol. Barles rei tracing

Barts says Saborde-anti-ciA-

Head a CR C

Now O. delesate a MDC Jose Manual Cusco

PRQ II-shows Buite FBI informent to de Bruey,

Уж

---

## Page 22

SECRET

From Vol. II.

Pedro Diaz lanz

I963

Pedro Luis and MArcos Diaz Kanz- attempted to make air strike over Cuba

with aid of Fiorini. Subject ? able to keep ? informed and information passed on

to local security agencies in time to thwart.

Leaflet drop planned July inext 3I or August I. Fiorini and Diaz Lanz bros.

Palne located at Weir Williams Ranch. Were to use Io0 paund practice bombs

cut down and filled with nuts and bolts.

MAY 2, I963- Marcos received telegram from Pedro stating financial assistance

received from past supporter in Washington- probably Cuban.

Fiorini told Marcos he could a plane to be used on raid. anà coula heelp.

Additional money being raised by Diaz Lanz brothers from the sale of 65 foot

Yatchtl approx. $$XION $ 17000

Sergio Rojas Santamarina- Castro 's Ambassador to I ndon nay have sponsored

Johnson- Fiorini - Rorke leadlet drop.

October 2I, I96I

December & and 9 I9GI

D4c. I7, I96I

June 2I I962- Sturgis procures for Diaz LAnz weooens including 57 mm recoiless

rifles. and ammunition. foom "upstate" New York.

July It, I962- Quinto, connected with Masferrer group and Sanchez Mosquera

offered Diaz LAnz 2, 5000to kill Castro, Diaz Lanz declined.

Sept. 30, I9T7- Cuban consulor official in Jamica mentioned Diaz LAnz as having

been involved in the Kennedy Assassination.

This is from Meemo FOR: S.A. /ADDO

From: Raymond A. Warren

Chief LAtin American Division

shiact: (s-T. HORIZON I -feport.

SECRET

---

