# 180-10144-10133

## Page 1

180-10144-10133

B0x29

Falderso

SECRET

Palmer

8/2/78

RETURN 7O CIA

Background Use Only.

Do Not Reproduce

10144-10133

Victor Paneque.

, pkg. loose documente

/ pig: DCD documente

/ Volume

c//oA documents

1. Volume. ODO documente

DDO Volume

024 Detobes 1960.

11(13456

Tersonality Hile Request

Victor Taneque - 201-286 382

Reportedly au agent of DIER

@ Undied document gering tarpuer background

political activitiy: All 1960 information.

1. On arrival in US., staged with Slands Borch,

superted Carto ет.

6. Associated with leader 8 MRR "Camilo Cienfueges

Carlor hodugie Cactso, ruspected Carto plant in U.S.

@Reportally spenT 2.hss-with: Raul lastro hafare

defecting

@ Major Sanjenis, formes Chief. G-2, says

taneque of GOC agent

@ Organization Autentica reporter, I Stale Dept

that Pareque is a Castro plant

@ 00-A 3.16866.2 reporto Pansque one of tro

DIER planta at Uni of Havana I studente

planning

I accoccinate him

0003442

Vaneque is G-2 plant

---

## Page 2

#6

Palmer

8/2/28

SECRET

Pangque

@ April 29,1959 Pascified Were age I Director from

Havana. Day Raul Castro has began a major

purge of. Culaw Crned torees. Among thare!

Io he eliminated are Veetor Paregua, aRa "Drego"

9180e8.1960

11111457

Conceration with Major Vector M. Janeque (Conmadaute

Diego, 6 Detober at 900).

When Pane que arrived in Meani, he got

together with Alianga de Liberacion through

De: Luis Conte Aguero. He could noT get immediate

help fom this group, to resigned. Cleo said

he.

had tried I got help from k.5. gout: hut ansuccesaful.

Forepea is corned that the only

Thing needed & oneithso Caste is asso,

supples. Has a plane which the intends o

fly in. Cula weth Cargo of arms

Author of meno recomments that CIA

oftes. assistance. $ Caneque independent f

all other organizations ao he seems to he

Capable 8 becomiig on empostant factor in

the future

3.

Now: 2,1960 Cable 70 Dieter from Marle

Paneque 48 men leaving for Cha night of shoo.

on 40- yoot yacht, Trudy ou. Cryt purchased by

Oslando Boach.

---

## Page 3

Palmer

'ER - Departmento Investigatio

8/2/78

èl Cercito Revolucionari

SECRET

Baneque

@14 Dee:1960

Cable to Direito from Navaria. IN 16758

Vaneque reportedly under arrest at Cabaua

pition o his wife at Women's prison, ow charger

of aiding Creambay fighters.

11X15458

O Jan 13,1961

Callo to Bell fron Justemala City: IN 1688

Alesander Rourke gries information that Mack

Fiorini → Orlando Boreh", represent Paneque in Cuba.

Groini Back recruitingo equiping force for

assault on Cuba 18 faw. Freceiving Jensucial aid

from Anti Communist literational Association

в пус.

14 Maick 1962

dupatch D. Chief, FaR Sorce C0 from COS/ INWAVE

Pareque organized a Hunger Shike lip Chan

Files , held a rally is Marel1962. Furpose was

O chow gok that Clous ire willing to die

in exile if their right & defend Caba from

Communin is negated. Motto of stuke is

"Hunger or law".

PRO pust , - July 4,1964

aliaser: Diego

Rene Ricardo (Clandestine Activity

---

## Page 4

Palmer 12118

Paneque.

SECRET

@ Request for Duformation, Review: 5200.1964

PoA granted 13 how 1964

88007.1964

11111459

Report of Covert Gressment

from Accessment o Evaluation Staff, Medical Staff.

Pane que one of o member of the "nadop

trainese (radio ferrators ) guen beyhological

accosments in Aug 1964, Paneque is oldest,

(DOB 18 Sept 1920) cord least intelligent, Most.

expercenced of the group. Likely he would

try o dominate the group because of his

jast epperience. His shortcomings scene t

out weigh his accets.

17. how1964 Classified Message 1622582

Paneque argied AMRUG -5]

19. Wee. 1964

Memorandum of Oral Commitment

Caneque engaged under oral Contract on, dee 1964.

To receiie $ 275.28 per month following

completion of satiactory Resice, Will

receive Maile of $50 per mouth on completioi

of training a 150. noise upon infiltration

(Posely an infiliation of Oriente Provice) see s

0503445

---

## Page 5

Palmer

•817178

Pangine

SECRET

210071965

Dispatch from COS/UMWAVE

Paneque terminated as of of31 Det 1965. Ogent

Service record. recommends his for re-use, ou

bacis of his knowledge of interal contacte in

Hostern Oriente.

11111460

16-22

15 Sept 1917.#

# 095686

Pareque participated is Cubar epile actinties

in hew York area ii 1962 and later

sogistered is ISR D Dept of Cury in Crepust 1962

(Dropped without prudice 18 how 1963.) De

1964 Parque was member of MD

infiltration team. Recruited by meami

station as radio oferstor/infillice and favorably

swirled on 5 August 1964. Port granted

13 how 1964- Paid I275 monttly hegenning

I Lep 1964. Trained by Chaw agente in nami

but never used operationally, Amically terinciatio

, Get 1965 o recommended for re-use, Reported

un 1969 as conducting clandestine tripes nude

Cuba on bekaly of Junte Militar de Culia.

nive

Thed ageney deletions realed envelopes.

8- FBI

1 Deptof Army:

100344)

---

## Page 6

Palmer 8/2/78

SECRET

Volume C1/0A

_ No notes necessary.

Victor manuel Paneque Batista - C-286382

Deletions., sealed envelofee.

FRI report 3 Nou, 960 end Offeis of Secunty

poly grapt Interveio

11111401

Victor Pareque

DCD Document

.- no- notes

Lasse Documento - Victor Pareque.

12. Jel: 1972.

Subject: Identification o pec, DSE, UVC Mentei, ete

page 3- Item 9: Supormation aquised tiroughe

interrogation of Ce -4993, facinto BAEZ. Galiano, a.

Cuban refugee o forme recident Bogla, Havana

Prosince, who left Cuba 22 hou 1971. Subconce

Worked for superphockates Enteipsce from 1950-1968.

Victor Manuel Ganezue enflaged sentil 1968 ao laborator

Chief of superthin late, is a member of the Pee,

militia, 7 Defence Committe (CDR. He in au

agronomist, formes chictor of School of Agronomy;

Savana Unemerty: He is descrited as

Caucacion, 5'2' tall, weight about 165 lle,

bon 1927-32, black hair, dark- colored eyes

(hote)

0908441

Victor Caneque Batista is 5'6" broux hais, blue eyes,.

bosn: 1920.

---

