# 180-10110-10074

## Page 1

180-10110-10074

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/20/20

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10110-10074

RECORD SERIES: SECURITY CLASSIFIED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 074-JFK

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

HSCA

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/02/1978

3

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/13/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 3.

v9.1

NH 50955

DocId: 32263479

Page 1

---

## Page 2

II.

III.

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

KENNEDY

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

DATE 5/2/28TIME /2:15

Telephone

Identifying Information:

Name

Baiba

Address

'Holmes anis tait

Type of Contact:

X Telephone

Person

-

Summary of Contact:

She tolo me that the

Hap trainscup

do not exist ao paras

she, Russ Holmes on:

that statemen

t in triti

and the said she world o

as soon as she could

check to make sure it

was covered your request

She said that 4031 would be

here this afternoon a would

legiven to betsy Palmer.

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

---

## Page 3

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

KENNEDY

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

DATE 5/2/78 TIME /2:30

Telephone

II.

III.

NW 50955. DocIdSIZAfatztelage 3

Identifying Information:

Name Barbara

Address

Type of Contact: & Telephone

Person

Summary of Contact:

She called se: statement d

requesteal. The said basid

on aus request she could

provide a statement to

the lfbeat that we had

den ernsted thergin

not cicceptable because we

had testimony that ther

Hence: ue needd a statement

sexuala shat mas

OUEE

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

---

## Page 4

along the lines he agentes

that specifically

weand

the stat do not he andial

that she could do that Dlold

hew that such whating shou

received only one foriet

photo base production.

WH 50955 ToeT 3228479

Page 4

---

