# 180-10142-10310

## Page 1

180-10142-10310

SEBRET

-6-

Box. 24

Rolder 3

11110083

THIS COPY IS NOI

" member of BRAc

i fled Cuba I Jan 1959

FOR RELEASE.

sep 195 a Oct. 1959- recered orders from Batista

by Jose suarez. Nunez to immediately attempt to

consolidate whateuer anti-castro forces he is able.

for a move against... castro with a partiular cited condition,

6.

Miranda Fernandez -

8 march 1961.

Adam tted in 1959 $ 1960 had furnished aid

directly to Rolando masferrer. Now prounding aid

& assistance to his former military regiment uno are still

In cuba working against.. Castro. He thinks group ii

assoclated @ FRD.

7- Arspatch

Cable to Dirèctor From (MASH)

sept 27,1960

12-12

MASH 0828

FBI has aduised of approach made to Frank fiorin,.

for procurement of two

mIG aircraft which would be

brought.to.states by one Grech and one cuban pilat.

Approach made by worman Ruthman who is hood

indicted fur gun running and stolen bonds. currently out

on A 50,000. bond,".. 2." FBI contact felt Ruthman interest

wa.straight.profit motlue or hope fur favurable treatment

re above rap. Contact stated. no. chance. Whateuer latter

and that. had advised Forini that FeI'

•coula not

handle such a deal.

.. but would pass to other

SEGRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

R$

180-1042-10310

---

## Page 2

SECRET

T0 11110587

"As of December

1960, Rothman was toving in Dallas, Texa:

makes

i annotes.

la- memo tor Deputy chief- WH Division from

re: meeting with. Norman Rothman

datea June 30, 1961

met

Rothman anch

lon ag tune 1961 in oftice

of Deputy Atty denis to evaluate" Rothman's claim to

operatonal assets inside Cuba

and elsewhere in the

4-6:30

Caribbean area.

5 P.M. Agreed that R would return

to Miami on Friday 30 June, and

would phune

en Julys for evaluation of

3

"Rothmants operational

potentel in Cuban affares."

McConnell. 5роке to

privately.

described 3

mmseltas a

"leading politeal

figure in the Democrate party machine in

vicarding" hathe was acquander @ lob. Kennedy, den. Tayler, den. van

Fleet."

, corporate tax lawyer, concerned quer embarassment to the

Kennedy administration caused by the Cuban "frasco."

stated

that Rothman claims to have assets and capabilines. which would snable

Rothman to destroy the arms dumps on the plantatun of ex-pres.Cardenzs.

of mexico, to set up operational bases in the puratan at a costofoa

a 1000, to sabatoge targets in cuba identhed by the us gou't

and to provide positive intelligence on the actruites of Chinese Communi

groups in the western Hemisphere."

Ruthomanstated. O castro had executed 3 of. his close friends:

Rogelio Gonzalez; Sori marin ; Etigenio Fernandes.

continueer

CRONET,

---

