# 180-10147-10022

## Page 1

180-10147-10022

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

3111157

DOte: Jure 13, 1978

Interviewed. dy: Piley Moldenell and Behry Nolf

teratiod

He literta

Tell : 435-173-81

Wheel irists if a Cor litte dated 12/12/13 pr

to the Cheeft of 52 Ald We ANd is the live of Sitere

powder a minis dited 11/25/05 WheWs

witties

to Patter P Heltezar encerning

sessed

puis interit is tee Henry Oswald. Thee downet

as the itse fid on questioning

Malligar stated that in 1963 the sewed as thief of the sorit

Section of the

statise unde deptrinate sure. He explai

that

was also an office in the

stition dut te

sived under

and Worked

пояз It-outs is make contact with others in the

station.

Die to the nature of this margenest, lasack frezuetty

With minal men such as the ole i t435-113-4 shk

were then passed aling to the station. Tee menes lild the

he fouarded to Headquarters, generally iy Halizes. I.

this particule wit?

who served under Maltizan,

He legital at the tie. PROMIBITED

Halt gas expressed the fillewrag powers of

-The E frase" was te braine upast and Stal

2

0003356

PAGE

COPI

9

10147-10022

---

## Page 2

3111158

Wine trif of the b tret wate ile transfer

REPRODÚCTION

fame of operations viles

i Will have made citact tronge the offee.

Move, stigar stated that it resely wors ast stalent ple-

ting procedure to intere

I ter to a caslety

Jet that these lashe would have falls Wto the julies

of the FBI.

- DALIS was the ryptonyin for the State Departinent Maligan

explsired that it was not unusual that

A State Departness despatch In DiWali aN it WOUld have beeR

notice to selle site if state Repartsucet mines.

metectis of lavig diseased the swald cove's

Sunsoner 1960" as stated is the mered, silest bave been a siles.

toke. Sistead, to pr Sis What I of 1962

- BI refers to trigraphic apriatios.

Headquarters agnisest withis DDP.

0003357

3

PAGE

COPY NO.

0f

---

## Page 3

with an iriest guise whisk he moisest He cite it if le us??

Is the sure 1762 dad ted wile we pissed Is for it the.

tO coupe was seatly detec de the iness blese. Netties.

leave the dover Wes as ast mary solt we were pitted

to cleave durag that time pellice

- Natagar Wha purpleed at to lis sefuence i lie barey sty".

i the had ure of the mess. te ust tiled heat it silet tve

sea a typsgrapecal in linees should we bee the " Ossile

sisy miliad. Ther i wad posted it that the sentere lost ti

Hes we musely a typigraphed so, the expressed lotise

with, resput is the refine. He could tect of as expiration

for ties, nor deft,

Kubt Cit

itis. potst.

PROHIBITED

Hattizas recalled that he arred in

for ile it segriment

is Jure, 1962 And tiet

pussiebly arived there i Septentee

i the spare ye. Hates stated kit is had new eat til

sumors to the effeet that Osaed wad will und we the SIN at

ary tie. He felt that trease if hee argnicits wither the.

Ageney, he would have ven is a poslisa. to distur it bsured

had then una is any lapsetup. it maid let the sid tee

in TaRan W35 1951-1755 Rad bial

0003358

PAGE

COPY NO.

---

## Page 4

1155 1 1458 511959.

mananagra

I stresse needed to win 4, a particle puss Wis is Wed.

they would ie able to check it Mong te fles. Asless, Agesy as-

statese Would not il duecty fleted i a 201 file retend,

0)

wal airmator, a secury this and inspaper duping rechig

He rdurdual. A cave like, ar the sis hand, sellets the statel

messabilly of lase files, Maltiger stiled Hat the ares of premary

instet in refleited an a 201 fle spering shet and that His

go to thet tuared to sier operational fration.

When asked about the sigufüanse of C/sIt operag Osalie 201

5

0003359

PAGE

ot

COPK WOL

9

---

## Page 5

ite 201 file and then renoung the pretecent linatie for tie

E2il fele Maltagan stated list te does not diese of this typer of leig

iliate for the pistectise of the spuditor and site ied thet 5/9 12

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

3111161

SECRETI

UU03360

PAGE

CORT NO.

6

---

