180-10141-10188} .

af 5 .

ay . {

Victor Dominador Espinosa Hernandez

DoB 8/26/37 Cuba

POA for| 10/17/6r
4/18/61
POA canceled 10/30/61

clearence cancelled 5/15/63!

zmx original POA grantd 10/17/60

28 SEpt. 1960- Guatemala for PMCADRE for project JMARC

there is a restricted CIZ0A folder on Victor in his 20r cf 85593

dune 16, 1965 f
15-2

cable From|[itearid]

Jorge Robreno aka El Mago on 6/K6/65 told fm Brengel that Spanish authorities
hed’ allowed him to travel to Paris to see Espinosa.

Espinosa ¢;lamed Ye had been sent to Ra Europe by the CIA.

Robrens was concerned that Espinosa avare of Cuebella plah to assassinate
castro. |
Robreno said he had word from Cuebella taht Alberto Blancho aka El Toco told! |
Cuebella on his return to Havana thath USA has not helped but hurt effort

3 |
Blancho believed that AmLASH group had not recieved any financial backing while 1
other less organized and with ltd. following had received support. |

i

Blecnho claimed ther group the on;y one with inside capabilities for aciton.

RETURN TO CIA
/ Background Use Only
* Do Not Reproduce

, aeo ~ O14) - 10/8


Biography seas
Arrived U.S. May 5, 1960

Granted PoA 10/18/60 for participation in Anti-CAstro operations.

Terminated March 20,1961 as makcontent.

CIA has had no contact since then'

July 1963- involved in the purchase and cachaing of 2400 pounds of dynamite

100 pound practice bombs and other material; part of plot to bomb Shella

Oil Company refinery and other targets in Cuba. FBI felt eriel atteck effectivel
thwarted by seisure of mmitions MAND AIRCRAFT. No cri minal action wes

contemplated.

Memo for the record:
July 7, 1965

gubjects telephone COmVersation with Serzio F. Matinabeitia on July 6,1965

Subject called /R.B. Entsass] we/c/r1/10
subject
case officer on July 6 to inform him of importent information. Yirtme would not
discuss this over the telephone. R.B, asked wine it he could travel to D.C in
two days, said he could not, but emphasized information too hot to let alone.
Subject was clieed back at 3:45 and stated information concerned Victor Espino
who was presently in New York and "worked for the agency:" end had just returned
from piris anf Spain and had to see someone in the agency.
Subject gave Eppinosa's address as 4I5 East 52nd St., NYC phone # HAT 7875.
Subject called again to say Espinosa wes at home and suggested someone call hime,
Subject told Espinosa would be called on July 7.
Alleccia discussed Espinosa with wH/C/TC personnel and advised Espinosa was a

malcontent and was not to be contacted.

July 9, 1965

(a) a

_
