# 180-10142-10111

## Page 1

180-10142-10111

Box 23

Folder'?

*9

2. 2.

6/3/28.

11:45 am.

LET Assigued to Mexico Gitalin 57/

TechNiciAN -

Inside EmbAssy

several. Tech. -All eps.-

- Photo Lab. Technician

Terminated '64 or 65

SAme All Hirughout period!

Soviet! CUbA -

DirecT re CubA

Soviet outy indirect.

Ser up camero's - Cubad-

Sie - only ovee- took Augles of

front gate from boopils Ene

eites JacK INV, on tom thistlet but ofeeds

for CabAn Op. - memory rogue.

Ou picked up photes the

Shout time

in the beginning. (09 sheets)

Coverage

Tried to get fell daylight

Coverage- lus very dificult.

MAN $ his suother na. iT

ExACTA OR LeiCA.

bAlscopen

Tripod - MANesh in beginniNg: gATeoNly.

- lAter, more sophisticated

impulse to Cover. CoNsulAtE,

-tried to cover two gates

DI NOT NEPHODILE

RETURN TO CIA

10142-10111

---

## Page 2

- both CAmerAs in Some ApT. -

probably sepArate dooms

an etch cAmerA

- AuTomoric CAmera repissera

The time also

(Up unt? 59), coverage was weak

everywhere except. Soviet.

Slipping ma: test unld show

AnsivAl dotes of equip.

He filed mouthly reports - his

Activities, maybe problems.

Time printed on the vegone

W.. Auto cAmerA,

much false triggering-cAmera

was twicky

Triggering device from sparing scope.

Opension sewized aun comers, developed

Am, I made couther priurs.

He made blowups.

Oljecrive: ID All visitors.

Eficiency: Impulse wooth good, sme

to weak bosteries, ec.

MANUAl, 900d, buT humAN enoR

---

## Page 3

and too manual ep. to Keep

CONStANT ATENTION.

Impulse comers- worked daylight

hours.

Never incolved in thy other

Sumeillance ops on CubAN

on dussian (eg: wiretops) to

his Knowledge,;

but did do

delivery work, i some

deliveries to Russian

tenstorore.Conly.couple of

months.

Doesn't recAll "Rudi"

on "Randolph

CArdi"

Win Scort was saris ted - Never

complied- he was

mericulous - had big interest.

in techivical op's.

Aave viewed Sume llance photos. -

Appened to be Win Scort's

"right hand mAn,

in Sour

respects, but NoT Necessarty

wverAn

---

## Page 4

Tom Keena lenssed topes. -

veer worked l him

the Name tHo Never came to his

Atteution prior to 1/22/63,

Veryoften, he was requested to

deliver message to (B. TReASoA)

to give priority to pArTiculare

bopes.

Russ. ta (isside.

No. Krouledge of means of

communicAtion i photo post.

Monthly rep's were disparched

to Adgtas.

Doesn't know it photo of tito

was ever token. No one

ever discussed is al him.

Did make some blowips

right after the Ass.-

but just routine - offer

hod 30-70/ wk.

daylight

Assuming: 10 ChANces to photo

LHO AT SOUS CUbAN EMbASSieS,

would be UNusuAl to miss All intess-

---

## Page 5

it was oN sas on sun, on case

* igua gana she ops toe

Not possible if CAmerd wAs

work.ng..

CAmeras At luSS. wers All MANus!

if be recolls corrcrhy.)

Alvme - NoT cAseof. tor tboN

Phillips- ? (PropAgANdA)

(shru)-=

(Could be. CAse of.)

(sreider)?

WAS in Attgtas - 63-65

Thy resiqned - told he'd he seut

-CAtmua

bAcK to Mexico -

Bixport iredoge el euteies t

(1955 porT) CouerAgs-

(tA55sge msnitesTs)

Doesnlt umb. time of coveisge

for sue.

---

## Page 6

Embassy coverag

at molate fon

so his memo co

compliat

Ama Hoodpastire was

=co.

may have been (Shaw)

GrEgoRy D PARNuth)

---

## Page 7

R. Z.

4/3/78-

Ed ~ present

shown teller

(1959:)

inside

19640265 retired

JACkInu.

'De Tom Haslett ?

corre

persistent enough.

somsons going in would

tugger it.

dod ID ever

unpulse worked good but there

were flukes.

---

