# 180-10143-10120

## Page 1

180-10143-10120

SUnd

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Dó Not Reproduce

Bor 28

Folder 11

#3

Summary. Of CI soft file on the

unidentified man photographs.

prepared by DaN HArdway

3/15/18

000162

.SEORET

10143-10120

---

## Page 2

GRET

CI Soft File on Mmm photo.

Blind Memo dated 5/5/77:

'As a result of a detailed

search of old records forwarded

man" were located. According

to these records, the man

visited the boriet embass

on 2 October 1963/ not, detain

as reported in Mexi-645306

8 October 1963) from 1216 to 1222

hours (local time) and on 4 October

1963 from 1115 to1132 hours.

1/ The same man visited the

Cuban Consulate at 1115 hours

aw 15 October 1963. 2/ The

0163

frames were sent to

Headquarters as a part of the

Station file on Oscald because

this man was mistakenly

linked to the Orwald miesti-

gation before it was know

that Oswald had left Mexico.

---

## Page 3

0164

2

City before this man wen

there additional frames

will be printed and filed

with the the shots aghe

these photos a phs add no

2. Photographs of the unidenti.

sources.

This is a report for 2,4, and 15

October 1963). The other records

are believed to have been

door a Dies were the.

for more recent records. 3)

Dull

---

## Page 4

SEGRET

-3-

the ended in anding

Philips as dacined in Dave

"that Dave Blist as didn't know

conversation would have

been picked up toch mornin

ow the and of October. The

tranolation estel have

lowe

Olls

"before the sth since the filn

---

## Page 5

S2

4

was still in the camero.on

the and of October and it

0166

work day which would

have been Monday? October.

3. Later the film was taken

but at that time, the lylay

out of the camero ever

stayed in the camara until

w, full roll uns completed

which might take the or

four daylace could haue

been requested on the basis

of the name alone but that

wasn't the wake wanted

Tin Scott

ran that Station.

is photograph see it

Of the numbersgame' of

justifyine

justifying as perch, les,

or reports produced!"

---

## Page 6

- 5-

3

0167

At is in Spanich (lovenb pictures).

4.

Log Film 145, October 4,196=

In Spanish; lovemb piotures

Fig from Cubemb photo

m. #240.10/15/63.1

og is

in English. The entr

"Man sent to the Consulate'

C. Memo (blind) ed dated 5/2/77

Record's Center

to secret of additio City felo

raphs of the "unidentified man".

were unable to locate any

such photographs. It appears

that the bolders for the destroyed

---

## Page 7

-6-

material were re-used to

forward more recent photo-

no felled dese denie

0168

Blind, undated memo entitled

' Mexico Station Coverage of

soviet and Cuban Embassie

(1963)':

A There were three phato

coverage sites on the loviet

across the stre son ethe

soviet gate: The second

overed the backyard of th

soviet conspound. The third

was a backu

the first one.

position ton

was closed when the station

learred that the Marrens

ZM-2

---

## Page 8

-2-

Commission was going.to

publish a capy of the

mmm photograph

b. These three bases were.

managedljan-agent who=

was.aMexican.citizens.de

callected the film brow the

two main bases three times

a week. The film was then

printedanto

another recritted outside

a The Embass Station clarly

agent

stelephone

• had clance operation on.

the darnet embassy

1. Aske

wated....

she wheth

taps were

TIBR

7/pm

---

## Page 9

-8=

d In 19iel the COS became.

the case pillicon bar the

intercept

operation. Another station

officer assisted. in dail

Are tapestand a pickely

There was also an @mesicass

technician at the listening

past

E...

In mid-1962

asked for the

phone numbertet lease,.

the CIA Station thendis

nectedlall of theirl

Haps so they saund notbe

kput

in taps on 5 dariet $ 5.

conversations which were.

queen to the COS daily. Full

scists were typed t given

to the Station after the reels

S/BR

---

## Page 10

0171

SECRET

-9-

were completed, usuall

tre o do in to la on

sation.".

as so as the station

himselfas

identifyin honed the sovie

Embassi

again, there was d backlog,

because the photographs were

picked up three times a week

but thare picked up were

monally for dates a bew days

before since the technicio

did to pright the bile?

Further, photographs were not

made initially until a compelate

roll of film was used. Later

pes as changed and the

---

## Page 11

0122!

-10-

at the end of each day

regardless ofamount of

unused film remainino

The instructions were to

all foreigners, and cars with

foreign license plates. Human

errorididoccur butgenerally

the agents were conscientious.

The Cuban Embassy coverage

had more sophisticated

equeement using a pulle

camera which frequently

developed mechanica

Oswald came to the

attention of the listening

was picked upand taken

to Mr. Boris danasoff for

translation because the

inkussian.

lev was trying tos porn

because bitation personne

site to rampass the shagsh

---

## Page 12

0173

with the typed transcript."

There are several cables and

memos about a tentative

identification ofthe mmm

as oneof "Yuriy Dranovich

Maskaler", a KGB officer.

10 Fst 77. "Mates made by A.

doodpasture for John

Leader, IGstaff."

a. the three photo sites were

handled byl Raman Alivares

'He callected the film and thi

trother 'in-laus printed it.

pite the inside a pattal

b. the agents used in the

Iphone taps were

Frank Estancona, and

6 Charles 'licts) was a TSD

officer who was put inside

the liliament poo to maintai

met with him dally to pick

(эт-5.

---

## Page 13

L

0174

CS 20"

1z

the dage anhanaits.

unel assig

COS: Win scott

DCOSE Alan Milite (6163-9165).7

CA: David Phillias1(9/4173/443

jasst

418162-914477

CubA Ops: (Robert thaw, Chief

5 (4113-465)1

(9/43-7/65)

8163-6ls

Sovist target

11

1X2159-8140

WilliAm

Bright 75/64-2746)

MEL Beck

I Outside CO (6162-1747))

nil

Support Assets

PolONE tAp:" ThomAs RIENAN (8/60-1061

I Outside CO: Doivid Wilsted D

1149

24

Photos CUbANS: ?

E Robert ZAmbErNArdil 6159-4164}

SEONET

?

---

## Page 14

0175

13

24

Soviet

1 Photo:

huis D Puckett (41587-66163

Thomas Keenan) 6163-10/64

phone tajes:

Hoodlegs

62-6648

Charles Flickt

61-01

Tel6z-910 hisillansmom

T5D Outside mit

slew Midden 4158-12165.

E boodbasture took the reel a

then get it to the toulo?

Memorandum prepared lu

a photos

ving his brief

stay a, Mexico City that

9/pm.

---

## Page 15

14

STORAT

"At no time durin

in Mexico citu

ming he

his stay

Chato al

estate careful revie

of all coverage was conducted

on 22 and 23 November 1963

after the assassination

including materials bäck

to August 1963. This confirmed

that there was no CIA

Mexico

cabled.

request on 15 October, th

CIA's Mexico representativ

had no photo of Oswald

rave one either-before

22 November 1963."

0176

SEONET

---

