re0-t0442-10305]

, DOC. fan a

. ; 2>
De Yarona, Manuel Antonio- 201-196435 8 files gs Foor 3

Volume 1, 15 Oct 48 to 30 Sept. 49 mostiy ara Agency materia!
volume 32 january 1956- april 1960

A. Biographical Information on Varona- dated 8/8/57 6pp
DoB: 11/25/08 Place: Camaguey =Cuba
lists as friend: ##A$#} Carlos Prio Socarras
Wife: Emilina Ruis Sanchez de Varona
Children: Carlos Manuel de Varona
Segura Bustamente nee de Verona
One brother; no name given? 11110093

19h0-4h Member Horse of Representatives- Cuba
194-48 Member Cuban Senate
1948-50 Prime Minister and Senator of Prio govt
1950-52 President of Cuban Senate.
Active in political affairs for cuban Revolutionary Party (PRC- Autentico) since
1934.
B.8 Aug 1957 - Cable from Havana attaching PRQ part 1 and states PRG II is coming
¢. 1/27/58 verona given 201 number and assigned crypt .
. 1/20/58 vVarona granted operation approval
E. Operational approval requested 22 Aug 1957
F. 9 March 60 Varona considered as a member of 4 man group to sign Cuban bond
issue to be floated in Miami
G. $ 10 March 60- Varona wants to speak to accredit United States person about
position and plans.
H. 17 March 60 Jorje Alonso Pujul, Varona's partner in Cuba, advised that
Varona is ready to leave Cuba. Station suggests that Licari go to Cuba and discuss
plans. .
I. 28 March 60-68 meeting in Havana re formation of governemt in exile

Varona makes requests. Listed. United States guarantees entry of key persons,
followeres and support.
J,30 March 1960 -Varona sets April 1§ as date of departure.
Ky Dispatch from COS, Havan, 1 April 1960. Santiago Babun called the American
Embassy on March 23, 1960 and wanted to see Gerald L. Gardyne. Babun introduced
Bardyne to Orlando Acosta and Eugenio Rolando Marfiitinez. Babun said that the
three of them were in close contact with Varona. @Babun asked Gardyne if he
knew Carlos Casaus who resides in the Fosca Building. Babun said Casaus was
attempting to contact anti-Castro elements and claims to te a special
investigator for the U.S. At a meeting onf 24 march 1960, Gardyne told
Babun he did not kmow # Casas. Babun said that Loubarto Diaz Rodriquez and
Varona were leaving Cuba soon. Another meeting of Babun andAcosta and Rolando
on March 25.
L. Varona met with case officer in Havana on April 13 and wanted to disucss
in U.S. with someone who could speak for U.S. govt his views on Cuben situation.
M. Varona agrees to meet AMWATL in Caracas ani proceed to San Jose with AMWAIL
in case Figueres not in Caracas. Varona said he was not on best therms with
Arango , but he is close to Figueras ani Betancourt.
N. Varona was questioned re Rubiera. Discussed #4 # who should be labor leader
or spokesman : Varona supplied names: Manuel "Manulo" Fernandez
Rodriquez Lominchar; Reinol Gonzalez Gabnzalez; Jesus Plana; Jesus Artigas;
Aggel Cofino; Ignacio Gonzalez Tellechea. Meeting on 18 april 1960
0. April’ 18, 1960 cable from Parlett- Miami- . Reports meeting with Buttari
who wants to meet Varona. Buttari complained about lack of organization.
Stated his son is leaving Cuba with students end he wanted them briefed oy
Bender group.

THIS COPY IS NOT
FOR RELEASE.

180 ~ 10142 -1030S~


Page 2

P. Contact Report- by Gerald Droller- dated Dec 27, 1960. Met with Varona in my

Miami with Hunt. Verona reported he had found an isolated piece of land on Andros

Island, Bahamas which could be used as a training site for 100 men.

“Verona discarded the idea.(Comment: I would bet even money that he will

pursue this aspect unilaterally. )"

Q. Memo of conversation, 11/29/60 Varona had meeting with Biwin E. Vallon, Robert

A. Stevenson, Robert a. Hurwitch, and Frank J. Devine. Requested funds,

stated that Florida law enforcement was geting stricter, impatient. Listed other

menbers of forces working aginst Cestor. Aureliano Sanchez Arango;

Iwis Conte Aguero, radio cannouncer and commentator in Cuba; Pedro Duiz Diaz Lanz

Manolo Ray, Andres Vargas Gomez; AREC- rich Cuban businessmen and property owners

R. Cable to from Director. Orig. is Gerald Droller.[———] told to
advise V. that U.S. government official, is prepared to see
him in WY on April 30 or May 1. Cable dated April 28, 1960

Volume 3, 3 & May 1960 to 29 June 1960

A. V. 4s to be in NY on May 4 and will stay at the St. Moritz if he can
get reservations. V. is leaving NY for Miami on May6

B. Meeting with V. on May 5. memo for record dated 6 May by
Ve. told he planned t3 go to Mithmi on May 6 and return to NYC on May
8 or 9, for a meeting with other Cuban leaders, including Justo Carrillo,
Rasco, and others. Varona plans to use Amalio Fiallo as agit-prop type.

ei} states that they did not discuss paramilitary subject

because "it is an area best be handled ‘in conjunction with private

groups, i.e. the Carr-Bender group." used the name Robert
_ Rogers with Varona.
B. From| 5/6/60, $66 Meeting #ith HUMAIL 4 May

who# said he and Betancourt seétled differences between Arango and Varona.
"Pres. Betancourt told HUMAIL that ODYOKE now wants to take measures
against Trujillo."

C. V's nephew= Abel de Varona Juarez

D. Memo for record. Meeting with Guymers, 16 May 1960 Memo by Sherwood
N. Gebien. Guymers reported on meeting with Mujal of 13 May. Figueras
and Betancourt urged Arrango and V to join in a united front. "Verona,
with whom Sujal (with Rafael Otero) had had a lengthy meeting last week
in New York, todd Mujal™ that an attempt will be made to issue a
manifesto in June.". A candidate to representative on Frente was

Rafael Otero Berlaff- described as a confidant of V and Arrango.

Guimers indicated Mujal had recently seen Spruillo Braden again. Braden
said he intended to contact Allen Dulles to arrange for Dulles/A#A} Mujal
contact. Impression was given that contact would be in writing. Guimers
requested 300/month for Otero.

E. Cable to JMRANB form Dir dated 5 May. To Galbond and Ponchay. JMARC
organization subject of conference on May 27, 1960 with Foster Collins
and Al Cox. AMWAIL%5S is ready to go to Mexico and arrange COmmo and

PM traihing sites.



Page 3. SECRET,
F. Cable datea 26 May 1960 trom| to Dir. Cite 115. V going to
Caracas on May 27 to issue statement containing reasons for break with
Cuba. AMWAIL going to Mexico in next 3 or 4 weeks to announce break
with Castro. He will look for place to rein 20-40 commo operators. V.
will do thesame in Venezuela. Amalio Fiallo will be returning to Cuba
to be an undercover FRD coordinator. "considerable disagreement among our
Cubans re PM activities. aMBIDDY/ @D/COVE eager to move at once and use
planes destroy sugar fields. V in favor ‘invasion’ on fairly large scale
from third country. Nobody seems like our approach at moment. Parlett
temporized and suggested V prepare paper this matter for discussion next
week between Licari/Bender/ V. only. Bender might bring his'mlitary
expert' to mtg. Suggestion accepted and waters calmed.” V. and AMWAIL
want immedicate action against Trujillo. FRD will use Rafaél Otero
Borlaff, formerly with ORT? as contact with Hemisphere labor. At Bender-
kVarona meeting, V accepted first monthly 700 honorariom from Bender and
200 for his chauffeur.
‘G. Newspaper article "Fidel called Red Tool, Says Cuba foe" article is
by Hal Hendrix. Contains statement made by Varona. Date 5/29/60- Maimi
news.
H. To dir from June 1, Or a contacted Castelon on
31 May. V. wants Castelon to meet Arango and Slavador Romani who is to
lead th Cara group. Romani is the main asset of CTRAKE-1.
I. To dir from dated June 2, 1960[——__} A, May 3D meeting, Varona
hed with him Manolo Alcalde #433 Incala who works for’Decor International
in Miami- "apparently V's right hand men."
J. Cable to Dir fopm MASH dated 6/3/60 MasH28 "Corbuston phoned and met
with Varona 3 June." Brought up the following points: Bender hopes it
isn't true that Varona intends give Hendrix details of 2 June immigration trouble
## for Publication. Varona ggreed. Varona should arrange exec. Committee
meeting for Wed June 8. Asked that Varona not inform Barker of “orbuston
contact.
Ke To Dir from| dated July 2, 1960 Cite June 23
Ray Leddy and fist see. Joe Montillar interviewed Varona. “here is
evidence that V. is under technicel survellance and probably physical
surveillance. "recoumend FRD leaders probably be warned avoid overt {4119499
U.S. govt contact."
L. Cable to JMASH from Director dated 6/13/60 #34580
learned thru # International Organization Division(I0D) that Mujal
organizing Frente Sindical and Y. is anvolved. V. denies knowledge.
[“Jeavised that Alberto Alvarez had participated in formation of the
Group.Maxwell Raab represents organization legally. Dina Dellale-#id!
treasurer. VY. was said to be present during NY talks.
M. Memo for record dated june 14, 1960 by Subj: meeting
with Codm. Pons on June 11. Pons had been attempting to recruit crew members
for maritime opergtions. “ Pons said that it was common knowledge that V
was CIA. Varona is an old friend of his and V asked Pons to join his
group. V asked pons if he would care to meet and American who was "a
friend of a friend of his." pons declined. Admiral Fodriques Hernandez is
Pons contact in Miami. "Pons added that he felt the abies _tntormatiog showld
be brought immediately to the attention of Mr. Abbott and

would like to meet with Mr. Abbott on 14 June.



ent T ihn @
Page 4 . SESRE L

N. C,dle dated 6-20-66 To dir tym Hava. On June 17 AMANTHEY
“introduced Bivard D. Knapman to Cubana (apt. Hiuardo Ferrer.

0. fo from Dir, 23 June 60. Reseruations being made for donferecne
suite[~ ~~] 28 June=5 July. Bender wants meeting with V and Carr before
3 guy.

P+ Meno for record of meeting between Guimers, Sothern, and Gebien. june 27
Majul told Guimers that he had been told/by FBI contacts not to allow his
Supporters to undertake assassination plots against the Castros, che
Guevara, etc. Mujal feels this puts him on the spot "because if an attempt
Qf this type is made, the FBI might hold him responsible and take action to
deport him. He then vas assured by Guimers that he could not be deported
without court action and advised to tell the FBI to mind its own business.”

# Volume 421 July 1960 t030 sept ‘1960. ~
A.jMemo foriChief WHD ‘ fpom Esterline . Subj: Burke,
Droller met .yith _Yeronar in NYO for 2.Hour ~ “

ges. “Dated I ily~1960.



Volume 4, 1 2 July @ 1960 to 30 sept 1960

1. Memo for Chief WHD Subj: Burke Hedges from Esterline c/w 4;

1 July 1960. Mr. Sree}4 Drolier met with V. in N.¥.C. for 2 her hour
Droller met+ laid down firm line that Hedges had no place in the
operation. V. objected cos Hedges was an old friend.

2. SJuly 60 cable from Jmash to Havana. attached is letter for "Ralp
"éRalph" Messages # were not read.

3. Routing slip stating message opendd by TSS and copies forwarded
Hava and Mash In UFGW @ 19

4. To Jmash from Dir. 7-11-60; Obtain passport picture of V. Nead
for special documentation he knows about.

5+ ® To JMASH from Dir. 7-11-60 ®FBI reported Mrs. Catherine
Taafe said on 16 June V contacted her and wanted to seeher. Requests
Gebe Corbuston warn V about SPmefet Taaffe_

6. Memo to Director from J.E. Hoover dated June 29, 1960 re CLIP
relates Taaffe story of V. call.

T. V. said 12 July he does not kmow and has never heard of Taafée

8. July 14, 1960 cable from MASH to Dir. #0206 V and AMBIDDY 1 hav,
submitted names of 70 people now residing MASH for candidacy
second phase training. recruitment can produce 100 by 1 Aug.

9. TUly 24, 60 cab&e from Havana to Dir. States Ref B. (HAVA 4174
In 26983) identifies AMHAWK-2. Ref C contained POA his use as AM
HAWK cutout with station. Ref C is DIR 30207 OUT 76577)

10. To dir. From Havana July 20, a9 1960 - On 19 July Dr. ,ario
Del Canal Ferrer who described himself as principal rep and coordina
tor for AMHAWK contacted pol. officer John Topping and indicated

he would & like discreet contacts with the Embassy since contacts
now established through AMHAWK-2 (Ralph) and Juan Menendez Tellez
were not sufificient. Station disturbed that indiscret approch
made to Embassy revealling that covert channel existed to

RAMHAWK. Aska if AMHAWK 2 is to be eliminated.

ll. Letters in Spanish to Francisco Jose from Dr. Bashlines; 44,"
Patricia from Fugenio and from Eugenio to Ralph.

1g. Indicates messages in 11 were from V.

13; July 25 60 AMHAWK 2

SECREL

44040

mn)


as se ARET,

1k, Memo for Record re Telephone Call from Jack Malone from

26 Sly 60. Malone reported that V shad asked
Mr. Lowell Tash, former hlanager of an American ranch in Cuba
to visit Andros Island on behalf of V in order to Lease 34 or 4
acres of aland. Malone will instruct #fash to go to Andros
and let Malone know what comes of trip.

15

l6July 28, 60 to Dir from MASH. AMHAWK claims Fernandez has worked
with him. Said name kVargas Gomez probably given by Fernandez since
felt Vargas in U.S. and couldn't be touched by Fidel. .
17. july 28, 60 V. said Amhawk 2 is his contact with Olien . Mario
del Canal is head man and general coordinator in cuba for amhawk's
gpoup. code aname Patricio. v. Menendez tellez is man

a put amhawk in touch with Olien.

18. m

19.amhwwk says hell be in D.C. for 5 ug meeting with pepep
People to People committee. Be in N.Y. 6 Aug and will call
Bender. Will be in Maimi aug 6.

20. Coprespondence from Havana, Ralph, to V. Aug 6, 1960. In
Spanish.

21. To Dir from MASH Aug 10, 1960 V. stated that AMRASP is

not flexible enough in its personnel policies.; needs a leader;

k Bender is too stingly. Bender group wants AMHANK as Chairman
It common talk Miam that AMA” ‘Ward up. Parlett believes tat
time ripe begin funding Miam Amfap activities out of agreed
$131,000 per month. Beginning sept all funding to be handled

via Mexiso. Pleas be sure Pwicker has cash and jacoount availa
ble upon his arrival Mexi. 9 ‘™*T

22. V arrived in Maimi from Mexi aug 18.

23 Message from Mex. to Director, Aug 19, 1960 V plans on trip
to L.A. for press conference Aug 19.

2h. V arrived Miami on 18 August with a 2 day visitor visa and
intended to visit hi wife in L.A. and retura to mexico

25. To mexico from Director Payment mailed to LAMHAWK “ug 19

26. t@*i Spanish letters to AHAWK from Cuba.

27. @% 25 Aug. AMHAWK tleephoned from Mexi to Alonzo Pujol

in NY to akk him get in touch Licari to check on Aug report.
Agency does not want to uses Licari's name on such matters-
serious secufrity implications.

8) From Director to Mexico JMASH, Aug 25, 60. Cite Dir 47292-
"FYI: During AMHAWK recent visit PEPRIME he reportedly solicited
funds LAS VEGAS gamblers. Suggest at your discretion you probe
report."

291 Letter from V to Bender requesting secure residence permemit
in U. S. #¥@ for Mr. and Mrs. Jose J. Garcia , Mr. and Mrs

Carlos Rosello, and MR. and Mrs Roberto Solis. ‘ill ve
representatives from WEst. Live in Spark, Nevada. dated

Aug 26, 2960

49526193



# SECRET,

"30. @B V. planning to return to Metiiie becaise pf problems in Mex
Date ANE 30+ ese J

31. SEpt 1, 60 Wmeteker recalls MYC meeting when Parlett raised

issue of independent party with amhawk to latters embarrassment.

Presume +Bresewre this same group réferred to. Aithawk r€adio program

Rescate would support this.

32. Re AMHAWK unilateral rBadio activity. Want it to cease.

33. Memo for the record from RRP DEAMWATEHF. Sud ject
is "Views of AMVAIL3 on Current Cuban Edle §Situation." Dated SEtpt,
6. Feels V. should be chosen as chairman of AMCIGAR. >

34, /Blank pate "U.S. Dept of Justice FBI Investigation, Sebt 12,
1969, Cuban Political Activities Internal Security-Cuba."

35.Varons arrived Mt from Mexico by aircraft during the early P.M.
on 14 am Sept. 19603 Subject was plannim to remain in New York

for 2 days. 17 wai 1960 subject planning to proceed to 115

Venetian Way, San Marine, Florida. (Memo to Droller dated Sept 15)

Memo from Joseph F. Langan.

36. Cable Sept 16, 1960 To Dir from Mash #0727 "SOSA told Bender
Gupton of AMHAWK's strongest desire return Cuba sonnest. ‘Wondered
whether Bender would furnish AMHAWK necessary support once inside.
Bender replied emphattally in affirmative, pointing out that this
would be excellent step not only for AMHAWK's own political
ambitions but also for AMRASP prestige as whole. ..."

37. M Contact Reprt, dated Sept 22, 2960 - Meeting with Tony Verona,

Pine Cottage, Coral Gables on Sept.17, 1960 . Memo re written by
Dro@ler. “1. GUPTEMinterpreted this meeting for the undersigned."
Verona wanted to see Droller becaie of his possible withdrawal from
the EXCOM and his early return to Cuba. Dro@ler thinks its a

good idea for Varona to return to Cuba. Suggests to him that

he submit to me a most detailed statemmht as to the support he
thought he needed from Bender and that after this planning phase
this matter could be discussed more intelligently, more concretely,
and im more definitive terms.. Varona advised he was going to

N.Y. on evening of the 18th and he would call and arrange another

meeting.

Sept 27, 1960- Cable to Dir from Mash. MASH # 0830-Jerry
Pres. Sears Roebuck, Cuba advised had been approached by
Manuel Rodriquez to serve as alternate courier FRD CUBA and

FRD Miami. Rodriquez said he is intermediary between FRD and
recuperation in Cuba for mitual support coordination both

goups. He travels Havana-Miami about three times per month

and meets Frank Zayas and or Tony Verona to give and receive’

plans and intructions.

39. Contact “eport 30 Sept 1960- Meeting with the Executive Committe
27 Sept. 1960 in La Moderne Motel, Coral Gables. Gupton and I met
withCommittee minus Sanchez Arango, Informed that Varano had been
appoi meral Coordinator of the Frente. Pao
wppointed as Ge: 4424038.

Erler,



38

Stpor

SECRET,
40- Meeting with Tony Varona, 27 Sept. 1960, Coral Gables. Contact ¢
Repert written by Droller. "Gupton and Bender met with Varona at the
latter's request in private. Varona brought me up to date on events
which had taken place after his and Carrillo's meeting with Hunt
and me in Washington (see Hunt's memorandum for the record in Contact
Repyet file).”
41. Blank Pate "U.D. Dept of Jw tice FBI investigation July 13, 1960
Rei Gederico Fernandez Casas

11420405


45

Volume 5- Tony Verona.
1 Oct 1960 to 30 Dec 1960

le

2. Meeting with Tony Verona, La Noderne Motel, Coral Gables, 28 Sept
1960. Contact Report, dated 3 Oct 1960. iiritten by Gerald 7
Droller.
States that Gupton ani I met with Verena. "I told Varona that #
Swe would send in the future certain equipment into Cuba. If
¢ verything went well, I would inform him and the FRD could take
the credit. If something went wrong, the FRD, however, would
have to take the bleme.”

3. Cab: from Dir to JMASH dated 3 oct. 1960 with instructions that
WK be reminded that affiliates of AMRASP are to be run
by Gupton web Sosa. Feo
Me

4, Memo for record, dated 4 0c: i. 1Report se Contact with
Alberto Roque. By Roque lists dangers of
appointing Varona he General Coordinator of FRD. Roque is
interested in MDC, and promoting Rasco.

5+ Cable dated Oct 4, 1960 fo Director from Havana Ref: MASH 0863
(In 20346) States that AMHAWK is pleased with Ref operation.

Boat returned Hava without difficulties. V. now ready to

exfiltrate following as soon as possible. List includes gese+

Jose Orimela Torra* nephew of Miro Cardona. , Lt. Armando

Gerra Iglesias, and It. Wicolas R. Vaan. Who have info on

sovient technicians stationed San Antonio de Los Banos and

Mangua.

6. Cable from JMMASH to Dir dated Sct 5, 1960. MASH 0936. States te
that first Twicker/amhawk meeting since V. assumed post of general
coordinator. Agreed that W wicker will maintain normal contacts
with V and other AMCIGAR members plus Sosa and Paula. Also has right
discuss opinions with departmental Chiefs. Gupton and Enzel

will confine contacts to Departmental Chiefs with Whom they

have been working plus Sosa. Slso, no PEPRIMER ehould make

specific commitments to any Cuban without prior consultation with
Ambawk. Comment: believe above is reasonable Picuatrien
practical temms none of above intended curtail ant-prelluction
or relationships."

7. 7 Oct 1960 cable to director from Havana. Cite Hava 6439
Report of Gowdon M. Biniaris from AMCALL 1 reports that Arango has
withdrawn from the FRD. dJustot Carillo and Felipe Pazos

@ will be integrated ino Manuel 1Ray's MRP. Varona espressed
desire to join MRP but Ray insists Varona retziin to Cuba before

being accepted.

8. Memo we for record, dated 6 Oct. by Droller (¢/wHf4fPA) re tk
phone call from Ricardo Lorie. .

9. Cable from MASH to Director dated Oct 6, 1960. AMHAWK considerin4
ng Bogata as AMRASP hemisphere propaganda distribution point.

Twicker indicated tacit acquiesence, but Meigs-feels this would
provide undesirable echelon between AMRSP-H]S' shi its national
branches.


10. To Director Srom JMASH dated 6 Oct. Cite 0957 MASH
AMAWK alleges two cubana pilots and navigator who fly
Castro on International flights ready defect and desires

offer them equal pay as inducement. "hk. FBY: If Pilots

really fly Castro this opens other opnl possiblitties.”

ii. Blank page- FBI Memo dated October 3, 1960- subject:
Frente REvolucionario Democratico. Internal Security
Cuba.

12. Cable Oct 8, 1960 from MASH to / Director. Hunt believes
V will repeat will do his utmost in new post and suggests
that in this difficult initial period we assume attituie
of watchful waiting and see whether V aan produce, without naggind
wg and otherwise diverting him from it critical
problems. Via Amclatéer 1 Twicker becoming
familiar working level matters AMRASP and this will

=. Provide check on V activity ani performance

13+ To director from MASH Cable- dated Oct 8, 1960.

~ AMHWK apparently interested mounting PM ops as political

favor his contacts Cuban exile commmity who nog willing
affiliate AMRSP but desirous utilize AMHAWK claims access arms
source with tacit acquiescence ODYOKE. On Oct 4 Sosa

asked Gupton arrante meeting with Enzel at which Sosa

stated AMHAWK desires Enzel mount Oriente operation

utilizeing Algerto Fernandez Exhevarria and AMNORM- Mino

DIAZ. Oct 6, Sosa made direct pitch for Enzel hand over

small amount arms. Claimed AMHAWK in contact with unnamed

individual who owns small plane which has made two flights from

Florida in elast two weeks to make arms delivery cmite Duque group

in Escambray. Enzel tactifully refused this request on grounds

complete ops detail must b3 forthcoming prior to arms trun over.

Basic element of interest above is AMHAWK willingness break own

AMRASP admin channeas.

ik. Cable from JMMASH to Director » dated Oct 12, 1960. DRE has
selected following students for first prop team; Ramon

Barquin Canterio, DOB aug 8 1942; Carlos de Varona y Segura,

DOB 29 Une 1942 (son of Tony); Miguel A. Garcia R Armengo,

born 1 Nov 1938.; Manuel Salvat Roque. Alberto Muller y @tintank.
15. Memo for Record, Report of contact with Alberto Roque,

Oct 13, 1960. by
16. Cable from London to Director dated oct 15, 1960. Arango has lef
% FRD and joingng with Diaz Lanz groups. Persons representing

FRD: Dr. Rolando de Rojas Gonzales, representing Varona, Dr.

Frank Marinez Piedra, representing RC, Dr. Jose F. Caragol, rep-
resenting artime, Dr. Julian Arias, representing Sanchez, Dr.

Diaz. Also states Williem Morgan is reported to be have taken to
Escambray hills. (Handwritten after this statement "JAIL"!

OAS?

AL


17. Cable dated Oct 15. luis Morales Ortega granted tourist visa,
U.S. V's chaffeur.

18. Estevez del pino is V's eembactimr rep in Venezuela.

19. Cable Oct 17 from Director to JMASH. Twicker urged exert
strongest pressure on V to deliver all material his possession
imedicately. Twicker to inform V ODYOKE demands from

‘Twicker immedicate turnover. WH comment :Reported certain‘
materical being hand-carried Washington.

20. Contact report dated Oct 17 . Subj. meeting with QDCOVE, Columbu
8, Hotel, Florida on Oct@@+ 12. By Wallace A. Parlett. QDCOVE
showed him a tae telgram he had received from Rojas for transmittal
to V. Whicker should ascertain, without involving the source,
what KAMHAWK is up to in connection with British-owned real
estate. QDCOVE asked whether we could be of assistance to
inflitrate one of his men, FNU, CRESPI.

21. Contact Report- Oct 17- by Wallace A. Parlett. Subject:
meeting with ANSLAW-1, Columbus Hotel, Florida. ANSLAW-1 was

to leave for Paris the evening of 14 Oct where he wanted to aa
persuaie AMECRU-1 to return to the U.S. in order to begin and
carry out the important work of a "behind the secenes
collaborator" with AMRASP. Is that alright with Parlett? It

is alright with AMHAWK with whom this matter had been cleared.

I answered in the affirmative.

22. FRD delegate in BOgota is Marino Sorondo Quintana

23. Cable Oct 18- from JMMASH to Director. FRD budget proposal
jneludea large sum for work inside Cuba which Bender group
eliminated and counterpooposed that FRD collect peso funds

from Cuban sources and use them inside Cuba. V. reports
increasing diffiuculties in collecting pesos inside Cuba and states
that pesos, a large portion, were going to Manuel Ray. V
requests budget increase by 25,000 $ monthly

bh. Contact Report- Oct 18, 1960- Subj. Meeting with AMRAWK

13 Oct. 1960 in a very hot car near the Miami airport. By
Wallace A. Parlett. % V. requested that we supply him with
arms and not inquire into the details of how he would dispose of
these arms. He said he had a plane at his disposal. He could
deliver the material inside Cuba. As he had confidence in us,'
we should have confidence in him. A revolution can not be wone
through bureaucratic means. Nothing ventured, nothing gained.

No commitment was given. Told him that he would Hear from

Hunt about it.

25. Cable Oct 19. From JMASH to Dir, "Having rebuked V on

17 Oct for raid!s éndangering lives of Americans in Cuba,

Teicker on 18 Oct told V that material still not accounted

for. V. at once began taking steps recover same. FEI: & V
understands material essential and manifested no resistnace to
delivering any balance locatable. On basis Twicker interview no
reason believe any key materials purposely withheld, although
“gourenirs" may have been retained by members raiding party.

440

At



ena

EGRET:

(aa)

ad

26." Cable Oct 19- from Havana to Dir. Gerardo Rafael Alvarez claim:
ms close connections with 300 man resistance group in Matanza who readu
ady to fight but need arms and ammo. Group connected with ~
Jorge and Es Rafael Fundora. Sampddro clese friends with Willian
Erler. Also claims to knewn V.

27. Dispatch to Chief of WH Division re Anti Castro Guoups and mt
JMARC Reports a meeting with Carlos Hevia @

and Lowell H. Lunger on 1 Dec. 1960. Hevia reiterated his

Personal desires not to become closely involved with asnamber of
any Cuban exile group but intended solely to use his influence and
contacts to determine just what is being done or not done amongst
anti-Castro organizations. Known V. for many years.

28. Oct20, 1960 cable. Indicates V is in New York.

29. Oct 20 , 1960 Cable From Havana to Dir. AMHAWK 2 request that
V be personally notified that Lomberto la Caridad Diez Rodriquez q
will arrive Marathon, Florida 21 Oct aboard the "See Bee" Purpose
is consultation with V. Mash requested arrange arrival and
Geparture boat so as to leave no record and avoid all apublicity.
30. Cable Mash to Director- Oct 21, 1960 V agreed to make
statement ofor the cause to press on Oct 23 at a meeting with

Labor leaders in NYC.

31. Oct 21, 1960 Oct 20 meeting with V. and Miro Cardona. Cable.
Miro accepted post of secretary general for pR. of AMRASP and
“will receive histunds on that basis.

32. Oct 22, 1960 Cable- From MASH re History of FRD labor
affiliate. Sosa took initial steps organize labor affiliate in
Miaimi. Another group formed in NY. Hoth merged to form

Frente Obrero Revolucionario Democratico (FORD). Under original
Bender AMHAWK agreement where MASH was to direct and fund all
affiliates including FORD, MASH wokked thru SOSA get lbor

show on road. But Amvawk repudiated original agreement becasue of
alleged interference with internal affairs of FRD for dealing
directly with affiliates.

33. Oct 2k Cable j From MASH to Dir. Wi Twicker phoned V at Hotel
Buckingham NYC and queried V re statement to press noting that
Hunt had not seen it published. V said that his speech 23 Oct

at Hotel Empire to crowl of 600 had included the statement but

he did not yet kmow extent press coverage. Added he now editing

a press handout, presumably with Lem Jones, which would contain
the statment plus other points. FYI: American voice answered
phone in AMHQWK room. When identity queried V said only that person
was “a friend." Could have been Lem Jones man or even the alleged
State Dept (in quotes) contact who purpottedly advised V against
making the statment.

-34,0ct 25 Cable frém Dir to JMASH- Jones said State Department man
was really rep of Senate Investigation Committee in touch AMHAWK
thru Senator Saathers.



SEtKEL
eis!

35. Cable from Dir to JMASH and JMHOPE, dated 26 oct.

" Pwo independent sources report AMHAWK boat is rebroadcasting HOp2,
® programs. Specifically mentioned was "Prensa Libre" Show. Doublech
ecked. Both Monitors insist report valid. Unauthorized clandestine
rebroadcasting hope progrems jeopardizes tremendous CIA investment.
V action will not be tolerated. Twicker will emphatically direct
v. stop forthwith. Advise HQS soonest V compliance above instruction
For Corbuston: Is Carbo providing V with Dubplicate tapes of
Prensa Livre Program? If so prohibit immediately." Cit dir 08219
36. Cable Oct 28, 1960. Meeting of Bender and arango Sanchez. Sanch
ez is to submit specifics for help to his org to Jim Smith and
to remain in contact with Bender. Parlett believes above leaves
door open to either work with Sanchez or neutralize him.

36. KCable from Havana to Dir dated 29 Oct 1960. On 27 Oct Enrique Trueba
Cama was introduced to Knapman by odoath att. Trueba is officer in Regil}
Coffiee, an ald classmate of Fidel C,stro- issue imediate xPOA for use
UMNET Intel/PM asset and assign No. 214-G. Trueba and brother, Pédro,
supportin Capt. Osvaldo Ramirez who is unit comir. anti-Castro force under
Major Evalio Duque.
37. Cable Oct 29, 1960- AMJUE-1 requested assistance to obtain visa for
Roberto Rodriquez Hevia dnd family. Hevia told AMJUTE41 that he had been
asked to go to Miami by Rafael De J. Gonzalez who ss nt message through ex-capt
Earique Dominguez Perez- Hevia claims to have been in contact with reps
of FRD, and ##$ in contact with Varona, Marin-Elena,Tomas Cabanas.
38. Cable Oct 31, 1960 To Dir from MASH cite MASH 3352 "Subjects ref.
picked up safely by Coast Guard cutter 2 hours off Key west morning
29 Oct. Cutter towed launch to point off Boca Chica Key where MASH 86
and CO met to take custody bodies. Launch temporarily held Coast Guard
Sation Key ## West. Maim officers brought subjects MASH safe house and held
until Imigration-94 documents ready morning Oct 30. MASH remaining in
Close contact with subjects who presently oom 319 University Court Motel.
Began making local contacts Afternoon 30 “ct with AMBIDDY-1, AMHAW}\ AMWAIL-5
»#Martin-Elena, etc. AMRUNG-1 stated he intended remain MASH 3 days or
“until confusions and misunderstanding resolved" with ref to Radio Commo,
Sea Delivery, and Air drop porblems. Planned operation PAT discussed.
Main points were recognition signals and selection rendevous points. This
tipe op will be discussed futther with JOBES present so that any futhre
misunderstanding can be prevented. Beane
39. V to have NYC press conference on Nov lt. AgsaBd29
LO, Meeting with Varona at Hunts's apt, Miami, 25 Oct 1960, Memo for-ecord dated
QNov. sf by Droller. Meeting of V. Droller, Hunt. They wanted V to make
statement which indicated he did not consider himself as futhre pres. of
Cuba nor was the FRD to be considered the futhre govt. Hunt dictated the
Statement to Varona. V. gave it over the phone to Sosa for implementation.
V's public relations consultant in NY is Lem Jones. V doesn't like hims
and will discharge him.
41. Cable dated Nov 3 from MASH re discussions with AMRUNG-l. Mr. Jim
Pekieh, MASH Case officers. " Did not discuss Pinar del Rio or Escahbrey
DZ's with NYONE(/) MASH. Only person fully witting besides self and AMTUM-1
is AMYUM cartographer in Havana who trusted implicitly by A-l.individuals at
DZ!s obviosmily knowledgeable. In this connection A-1 turned over to HAva
case officer complete plans sea landing zones DZ and other related
inforamtion for passing Headquarters re implementing, preliminary phase operatin


B14

sf orer,

Avl feels Varona has subwerted cause. When asked if he received 2 covert
shipments arms sent by #i Verona boats he stated no. Upon confronting

V. he ascertained arms cached. A-1 with relactant agreement V will now

be given arms cached. A-1 stated V. sent representative to Hava to kill

Arl but could not. VY. stated his people not assassins but loyal ACubans

who want Country free."... "Landing 2 boats supply missions with A-l who will
return Cuba in MASH boat sometime after pertod of no moon. A-l wants to take u/?
operator now HS with hin"



45+ Dispatch oct 28, 1860 | to Chief

of Western Hemispher Division Chief “of Base JMASH. Con 3 Oct

1960 Jesus Rodriquez ané y Moreno (A-11-877-276) appeared at

ODURGE office and requested passport, Indicated he was returning

to Cuba on a special mission for Tony Varona. Returning to

coordinate counter revoluationary activities in the Pinar

del Rio to Havana area. U@ UFGA 228,

46. 4h Nov 1960 Cable requesting that JMASH urge AMHAWK that

arbitrary action in No 45 (above) could prove counter productive.

Instruct him that all futhre plans this type will be coordinated

prior implementation.

47. Cable to Dir from MASH dated 4 Nov 60 Lists salary

scales for Mexi delegates who are Rolando Rojas, Jose

Caragol, Roberto de Varona, Amaro Alvarez, Julian Arias

Lazaro Diaz, Rodriquez i+ Fleitas. AMRASP not paying salaries.

Assume ORRISON making payments.

48. Cable dated Nov 5, 1960 from MASH stating 2 on Nov 3 V

had told Hunt that V had received info that Manolo Ray wanted

to leave Cuba and was to be exfiltrated by Bender group.

49. Cable dated Nov 5, 1960 to Dir from Havana. Humberto

Conrado Rodriquez Saborit will replace Jose Amado Chavez

Ser+ Guerra. Saborit is Chief Action/ Sabotage element in

ate group and sought by DIER. Piscis departing

Nov 6.

50. Cable to Dir from Mash dated Nov 7. On Nov 5 AMPALM-5

gavetWee+  Twicker memo of conversation recently sustained

in SANJ with Jose Figueres. Figueres old friend of Arango

Sanchez. Equal freindship or esteem for V. Figueres said

if he could bring about Arango's reintegation in FRD, he would

try to do so.

51. Cable from Mash to Dir, Dated Nov 7. At Hunt's request

Amadeo Barletta Jr. arranged staged interview 6 Nov withy yey
any LS!

As result V issued unequivocal statement disavowing
connection between his current post and that of provisional
presidency.

92. Cable from Mash to Dir dated Nov 9, 1960. V hired
Adeeb, Osborne and McClaney public relations firm, 100
Biscayne Ave, Miami. " Firms assistance accepted by V without
compromise of any kind."

53. Cable Nov 9 Hunt told V that Corbuston would assume

full responsibility for payment of slaries, maintencace, travel,
rents, ete for FRD afiliated.

54. Cable MASH to Dir. Nov 9 Answere to request of V
verification in ordering counter revolutionary activities in
Cuba via several individuals directly. V cannot verify as

does not know subject nor alleged operation. Handwritten from
ref- Rodraquez y Moreno ,esus. Note on bte bottom of page
Heey+ Juey ?- From what”I have read lately it looks like the
Hawk is acting independently. Wes this discussed with him?

It's probably to Jerry Droller.



LLGUIL9
*F  SECREL

35. Cable dated Nov 9 to Dir. V did not attend NYC meeting sllegea
ly heald by Miro, Aguero, Mestre, Ameer, etc. ( to Mash's knowledge )
56. aa Cable to Director from Havana dated Nov 10, 199 Clark
C. Wyatt, former pres of Burrus Flour Mills introduced Olien to
baldo Mario Pascual Alvarez, usually known as Mario Pascual Alvarez, also
erio Alvarez, argentine citizen. Alvarez is coordinator for Union Nacional
Temoeratica based in Miami whose principal leaders are Pepe de 1a Torriente,
Luis Penelas, Andres Vargas Gomez, ani Commandante Jorge Diaz. Alvarez
has been trying to bring about amalgamation of opposition groups, specifically
Accion Cuban, MAR and Rescate group who follow kV.
37. Cable, dated Nov 10. To Havana from Dir. Manuel Ray in conversation vith
Bender claims Padilla his asset. Ray had planned time defection of one Isle
of Pines Garrison to conincide liberation Matos. Ray thought Isel of Pines
could become significant base mrp mil ops. "For number reasons which primarily
Political and to be reported by separate message, our relations with Ray group
strained. For Mash: To free Huber Matos via AMHAWK (AMRASP) and attmepts stir
Matos into Aurasp camp of course of mich significance to JNARC objectives
generally and AMPRASP prestige specifically.
58. Cable Nov 1k. o Dir from JMASH- amhawk to arrive D.C. Nov 15 for
consulatation with kambassador to USA and OAS with whom he in
telephonic contact. “Hopes secure collective OAS action against Cuba and
failing that discuss declaration war aginst Cuba. V feels| should decl
are war aginat Cuba then sq+ request USA military aid. at this-poInt 7 would
sené Cuban volunteers tof from foll countries: USA 300, —€/ 50,
100; 25-50; and from| and NYC an undetermined number.
Would unite with FRD trainees now in camps and with or USA assist-
ance be transported to Cuba to open a combat front.
39 Cable Nov 15. AMYUMS reported two sucessful drops to Evelio DUque Forces
on Nov 3 and 11 by V using RCessna aircraft. Drop consistéd of 60 machine guns.
60. Nov 16 cable from MASH to dir stating response the request for Twicker
exploration re planning PM activities outside AMRASP. No xnown independent
AMHAWK PM activities.
61, counseled AMBIDDY1 and AMPAIM 1 on Nov 15 to lend fullest support to 7
62. Blank page- DEF 62658 dated 16 Nov 1960
63. Map of locations in| ~ hand arge+ drawn. with a report by Roberto
de Varona Loredo, executive ember of AMRASP Mexico City Delegation. (Dispatch)
Map indicates locations for various staging areas in for military
training campa.
64. Cable to JMASH Zro Dir datega% Nov 10? Jose Manuel Brana Duren claims
affiliation 100 man GW force in C maguey commanded by Capt Orlando Orozco.
Claimed group apolitical and had~blessing of V.
65. Blank pate- Letter from Frank J. Devine, Special assistant, Bureau of
Inter-American Affairs, dated Nov 18, 1960
66. Cable from Mash to Director, 18 Nov. "Growth of MRP strenth, Miami arrival
Manuel Ray, firm establishment AMRSSP as serious albeit somewhat controversial
unit, Bender group concentration on selected number of Cuban complexes, are
factors which about to result clearer emergence leading contenders for carry-
ing brunt anti castro fight. We can perhaps devote now fuller attention to
AMRASP, MEP, and MRRD without undue distraction by other mich less important
Groups. However we should realize that these latter groups may be very vocal
in their attacks on the "big Three" Also there is no unity witin exile
cuimunity end even a man of Miro Cardonas statmé/threw in towel this regard
(See below). Further more it quite conceivable. that! younger element s within



AMRASP and even perhaps AMWAIL may switch to MRP sooner or later. This 4g might
be so because Bender, I.E. PHPRIME, readiness Render some support to MRP no
dark secret and MRP perhaps more appealing to yew new direction. AMWAIL was
always close to MRP but had no place to go until just now."...
" During 16 llov Bender Miro meeting latter was much dejected. He cannot bring
about unity: Those in touch with PEPRIMERS are smig ani feel no need to amake
even a minimum of compromise: those not in touch are waiting to see which of
groups will gain upper hand and then will try to join it at last possible
moment... ."
“Bender then spmung suggestion, and suggestion only, which he had tried out
on Manuel Ray the previous month night: Perhaps one could form a consefjo
revolutionario democratico, chaired by an elder statesman without pary
affiliation.(Coment: Parlett was thinking of MIRO.) C ouncil would have
3 members: Varona, Ray, lorie. Under council would be affilated orgs such
as AMRASP, MRP, AMYUM dissidents and any other group that wnated to join.
+++-Miro felt such solution possible especially if prprimers would let it ve
tmown it desire.d. "
67. Blank page~ FBI MEmorandum dated 18 Nov 1960; subject anti-Fidel
Castro Activities. File No. 109-58
68. Contact Report by Wallace Parlett with Raul Chibas and Juan Estevez
Ramires on nov 16, 1960, Informed of currad‘ organization of MRP. Manolo
Ray wanted that I be reassured and that I understood fully the MRP's
great freindship for the U.S. I gave Chibas a $400 check made out to his
name.
69. Cable dated nov 21, 1960 Ray has phoned V from NYC and arranged to
see AMHAWK in Miami. According V brief conversation was cordial.
0. Cable re+ Dated Nov 21 reporteing 17 Nov conversation with
Parlett, V said he very disturbed over Parlett proposal establish Miro as.
“super coordinator" and supercede AMBIDDY1 with Lorie. Seid this would lead
necessarily to his resignation as all work to date would have to be done anew.
Hunt calmed him with assurances that Americans sometimes think ourt loud ani
that noserious proposal was being made to effect such a radical move."
Th. Cable to Director from Mash, Nov 21. Subject of Provisional govt
discussed with V. If we agree on single Provisional president V thinks
Miro Cardona probably best suited. For discussion purposes V will provide
list of suggested cabinet appointees for caretaker period.
72. Document transfer and cross reference. for Varona. Lists two
201's 201-078056 and 201-289552 (Roberto's)
73+ Cable from JMMASH~ dated Nov 21. Miro Cardona may accept position as
AMRASP roving ambassador in Iatin America. Hunt authorized V offer any
reasonable salary plus expenses to Miro.
Th. Contact report dated 22 Nov. Subject: meeting with Tony Varona 1k Nov
1960 at apt, Coral Cables, Faorida. ¥erena Report written
by Wallace “A. Parlett. M¥ren+ V informed them of plans to to to N¥ to see
whom he wants to ask for aid.
3; V would go see the OAS Secretary General and will give
petition paper to pres: ie suggested to V that it might be a good idea
to visit Washington during the week of Nov 21 and to pay a
courtesy call on someone in the office of Assistnat SEcretary Mann.

14140444



ays SECRE

75.Cable dated Nov 2k. 1960 from JMASH 'to Director Pedro Diaz Lanz has

joined AMRASP, bringing into it the following pilots: Abel Hera Corton,

Frank FirpFiorini, Francisco Llano, Hvangelista Mrsuli, Ramon P. ,uentes,
Nester Alvarez, and Fernando Garcia. (Marcos Diaz Lanz, his brother also
Joined.) Shortly after joinging R AMRASP, Diaz suggested to AMEANK the
establishment of a special mission group comprising the above personnel, all of
whom, accofding to Diaz are qualified as A/C mechanics. The group could

drop AMRASP leaflets on cities, small towns and cooperatives and could fly
cargo missions when required. To prepare themselves for standby readiness
Diaz has requested v ‘ and V has queried Twicker) for funds to

A> Rehabilitate the personaly owned B-25 A/C of Diaz at a cost of approx

$5000. Be Provide pilots with link trainer time (8 pilots at ten hours

monthly, at cost of $8 men+ per hour) and C consider purchase of Float-
equipped Cessna 180 or 210 for infil/exfil ops.

Twicker believes Diaz highly motivated and recognizes AMRASP es mainstream
anti-Castro org. Temp. solution has been to assign Diaz group to

twansport Comissiop, which now fmetions under mil commission.

sRequestes HQS approve initial link trainer refresher of DLS 960, 15 brs

Per pilot, then monthly cost of 640$/ month. (no author given)

76. Blank Page~ Outgoing Cable from Dept of State dated Nov 25, 1960

TT. Cable dated nov 26. from JMASH to Director Ref 1820. AMHAWK has

been pressuring for commitment ref proposal, but when he mentioned

that "Cesar" go his personatrant principal underground leader, and proponent
of ref plan wanted to make quick trip to Miami Hunt replied that

opportunity ideal give-Desar thorough debriefing. Twicker agreed that CESAR
would be compartmented from Goudie and Martin Elena, and could +&ll his

story directly to Keator.

78. Blank Page- FBI Memo dated 28 Nov 1960 Subject : Movimiento Revolucionario
del Pueblo (MRP) File No 105-3107

19. Letter to Dave from unidentified source- may be Lem Jones. dated tov 29, 1960.
Indicates that Varona decided he wanted a nw public relations outfit in NY
Outfit selected was Connolly Associates, headed by Joe Connolly Jr.He has

been NY correspondent for Adeeb, Osborne.and Mc Claney. Osborne pretends to
know nothing about whet is going on. Joe Connolly says 8 Osborne personally
called him about project. Joe wants no part of it.

80, Blank Page- Memo of Conversation dated Nov 29, 1960 Subject: Activities
against the Castro Regime in Qbuba.

81. Blank p. FBI memo dayed DEC 7, 1960 - Subject: Revolutionaxy
Movement by the People (MRP)
82. Cable- From WAVE to Dir dated Dec 8, 1960- re review with possible
bases for provisional govt with AMLOON® 1 . BAMLOON excluded elf from any
participation, stating that he desired only to return to his finca, his law
office and presidency of colonos.

§3. From Wve to Dir, dated Dec 9. states that V absent Miami until 13 Dec.
84. Newspaper article which indicates V in Chicago on Dec cA

85. FBI Memorandum dated Dec 14, 1960 Subject: Democratic Revolutionary Front.
-=_Jnternal Security- Cuba. (Blank Page)

“65. Cable from| Dated Dec 10, 1960 states delfriefing Pachuke continuing
Longan plans A wash for LCFLUPTER on 12 Dec. Will travel via Houston
secuirty sheck PACHUKE"S house. On DEC 9 Johngon, FNU, speaking Texas English
phoned Mexico City Cuban Embassy from Nogales exico saying had ‘very
very important! info to give them. Said info about gVarona and Florencio
of NY. Cable from states on 29 Nov subject registered as Carl

Johnson of 3452 ge Dunn St., Memphis, Tennessee, eae OTST OER

4



‘86. Cable from["__|to Dir dated Dec 12. According to FBI Johnson's
true name is Thomas Howard Griggs born 2 Sept 25, wanted in Chicago on
warrant for abduction.

87. Cable from WAVE dated Dec 13, Ponchay met Gustavo Mustelier, Cuban!
iawyer on 11 and 12 KDEC. Manson attended meeting under name of Robert
Vincent. General discussion re Cuban exile unity of lack thereof.

88. Cable form to Dir dated Dec 15. Estevez appointed FRD
coordinator CIRAKE-3 quit supporting v.

89. List of claimed personnel of Rescate. Transmittal of Varona's OB. (
What is OB) Dated Dec 16. In spanish.

90. & Cable to Dir from Wave dated Dec 19.Per "Per Scorgory verbal query
at WAVE, Rafael Genor ("Macho") working with AMIRON. AMDIP approves visa
for wife."

QL. Dispatch~ dated Dec 21. To Chtef WH Division- JMWAVE from Chief M
Aviot/2 reports that Gisela Garcia de Solis who resides 314 L. Street,
Sparks, Nevada is working for AMIRON in Nevada, Los Angeles, San Francisco,

Reno and Las Vegas. She was recommende for the job py IV. and Jorge

Alonso Pugu PUJOL. Requests traces.

92. Blank page- Information Report from Office of Naval Intelligence

dated 22 December 1960 Subject: Cuba: Statements dof Cuban refugee recently
arrived in Madrid Spain.

92.Biographical profile on Dr. Manuel A. de Varona dated 22 Dec 1960

93. Memorandum from FBI dated December 22, 1960 re Anti-Fidel Castro Cactivities.
Gh. Blank Page- Memoranium dated December 20, 1960 on Cuban opposition groups.



“eof

SECRET

Volume # 6 Varona 201 From 1 January 1961 to 30 May ig 1471094

i. Cable dated 5 Jan 1961 re AMNORM. Refers to Bender meeting on
January 5, NYC.

2. Cable Dateé Jan 5 in@icates V wants to visit troops in
p. Gable dated Jan 6 lists AMDIP's suggestions for provieional govt officials.
4. Gable+Beted+ Memo for # record dated Jan 9, 1961 re Consolidated
Production Company. Mr Lee Grills is pres of Company of Ft Lawierdale Florida
Firm is engaged in production of explosives and he now has a new y type

Which he wishes to make imown to the U.S. govt. Currently engaged in

filling large order for Cubans give name of V., Fredrick Goudie, 7
Florentine Blanco. Grills is in business with Lewis O'ConnorJr and

Joseph O'Connor.

5. FBI Memo dated Jan 9, 1961 re Frente Revolucionario Democratico= Blank page.
6. Memo for record by L. Napoli dated 13 Jan. Subj. Conversation with
AMCLATTERL and Varona concerning the Cuban exile group's visit to Washington,
AMCLATTERL was told by V that there were plans for large

delegation of Cubans to go to Washington from Miami and New York. Purposes:
Thank Pres Eisenhower for million dollars set aside for Cuban relief,

Pay 8 tank -you call to Peruvian Ambassador and speack to reps of OAS.

7. Blank page- Memo for the Record dated 10 Jan 1961
8. Page headed with Dir of CIa- Cellini was formely employed in the gambling

advised whether your Agency is in a position to know of any extensive financial
backing of Varona and Frente ani , if so, whether there is any other data avail
able indicating substantial contributions by gambling intereste in the u.s.

9. Blank Page DBF 67223 dated 18 Jan 1961

20. CAble dated 20 Jan from WAVE to Dir. Orellana told AMBIp that GOG disposed
recognize a Cubn govt~in exile on Gu&t soil and declare war aghinst Castro.
Ewehiclel to meet privately with Von 24 Jan.

li. Memo for record dated 23 Jan by, fe Alleged telecon
between Rufo Lopez Fresquet and Pres. Kenedy. "Tn a telecon with Francisco
Saralegui (Bohemia Libre) on this date, he confided to me that he hai been told
by LOPEZ Fresquet of a conversation which Lopez had had with the Pres. on Sat.
He was promised that once a becachhead was established in Cuba, a provisional
Govt wi should be set up constituted by Fresquet, Miro and Varona. Pres alleged
iy promised that U.S. would recognize govt. Lopez added that after first mest
joning this to miguel Angel Quevedo and Benalegui he had been called by thite
House and reprimenaded for having divulged info passed to him in strictest
confidence.

12. Cable Jan 26. V is to take part ina radio/TV public events show in NYC

on Jan 29. On 1 Feb he will address a women's group on jas.

‘13. @abie+ Dispatch dated 31 Jen 1961 To Chief MHD Fromt (blank) Action:

Cheif of Base, JMWAVH INFO: MEmo prepared by Mr. itillian D. Pawley.

Ref UFGA T47- " Attached is a thermofax copy of the memornadum mentioned

in the reference. The original has apparently been retained in the files of
the originator."

is. Dispatch dated 1 Feb Attached is a tape of conversation between Fabio Fre
Yre, Rubio Padillo, Cuervo Rubio and Toy Vanona. Conversation took place on 30
Janpary. (No tape is in file)



go. I , “SECREL

15. Contact Report with Guillermo Alonzo Pujo, 18 Jan Report dated Meb{2 by"
Gerard Droller. Reports meeting with Pujol who asked if Bender woilld “continue
in view of the change in administrations. Bender answered Yes. Bender profeses
to be a privte Am citizen. Pujol suggested proposals to change FRD.
16. Hogan is a US citizen, free-lance writer ani part time sugar broker
Resided in Cuba since youth, has contacts with Cubans in sugar business. Lived
in Havana 1959 working with Sugar Stabilizaiton Institute .
17. Blank Page- Memo of kConversation dated February 6, 1961
18. Blank Pge- Memo FBI dated FEB 7, 1961 re CLIP
19. New Executive Committee to be gomposed of V. , Justo Carillo, Miro Cardona,
Tony Maceo, Carlos Hevia, Jesus Fernadaz, Sergio Carbo, Josa Alvarea Diaz,
Rasco's Substitute, Goar Maestre. (Memo dated Feb 8, 1961)
20. Letter dated Feb 8, 1961 from Michael J.P. One»
21. Memorandum fof Conversation date Feb 9, 1961 re Views of Opposition Leader:
dR. Antoinio Varona. Blank Page
22. Blank Page: DEF 68504 dated 10 Febrary 1961
23. Cable Fb 11, from Wave to Bell re opperation popcorn (kWASP; 76 ' yacht)
Enfiitration++ Exfiltration oyration- lists persons to be exfiltrated.
Emilio Gonzalez Castellanos, Benito Medina Garcia, Gilberto Sadenas, Alberto
Gonzalez Ricio , Carmel Gottarne.
2h. Cable from Wave to Bell dated Feb 13 AMOT-2 reported that only info he hes
been able detemine re DINO V. CELLINI is that Subj worked at the Casinos
Tropicana and Riviera in Cuba, then vent Heiti. Subj now residing at 12450
Key Stone Rd. North Miami. a2 has been unable determine whether or not V
is in contact with Cellini, firm of McLeary, Adeeb and Osborne, Pr firm LV,
Nevada, or Savard K. Moss of @as chase/Moss international Inc. Barker will
ask V re above.
25 Letter or Memo to Director fof 3FBI, kattention MrS.J. Papich, from DDP
dated 24 Feb 1961 re Cellini family. Related info obtained on Cellini, same
as 2k above. Expect additional info shortly. Requests any additional info
the FBI can provide on the Bernard Nucilli mentioned in the FBI report
originating with NY office on 18 June 1957f Subject- Rouhi JAMIL, file
No. 105-24466 (SM) Handwritten on Memo is see DBF-70566 8 March 1961.
26. Memorandum for the Record dated 28 February 1961 by Droljer, Suj:
Plans for the Establishment of the Cuban Provisional Governmetn.
Droller.and Napoli met with Varona on Feb 17. On same day they had a
meeting with both Varona and Ray. Droller presented list af 29 names
from which they were to chose 10 for provisional govt. Ray got mad.
Algo gave them a 7 point program as discussed with the Chief of the
Western Hemisphere Division.
Agreed that Varona, Ray, Artime, Carrillo, Chibas and Pazos would meta’
in NY on 26 Feb. in order to examine list of 29 names and make decision
and Ray and Varona would retrun to Washington on or about 1 March with
their findings. Droller's C omment: -"We believe that Varona will
play ball one way or another, but we are not convinced that Ray will
accept our list. We have the impression that he might want to substitute
his own list; of course, we must see whate he comes up with. In any case it
is our view that we should not rush matters unduly if there is real state
Department interest in hving Mr. Ray and company play a role in the pro-
visional government. Should the decision be made to write Ray off, we believe t
the Assembly could be convolked without too mich ado, substituting Miro
Cardona for Ray. It should be noted that the above is only the gist of a
long conversation session which, by the way, was recorded and took place in
the Shoreham hotel...."



7 : man SEuitel
27. -Memo for record of Telephone conv Mirth artime and Varona onl March
1961 dated 2 Mr, 1961 by Napoli. Varona reported on how meeting was going
In N¥ re FrD program. Meeting was going badly. Could not reach agreement.
28. Memo for record by Napoli dated 3 Mar. 1961 re Phone conv with
V on 2 March . Reported on meeting which had taken a turn in favor of FRD.
Agreed that a group of Coubans would be appointed by these 6 and gpoup
would be augmented to include others. They would chose a provisional pres.
Charter members of the six are Carrillo, V., Pazos, Emilio Menendez,
Miro Cardona, and Carlos Hevia.
29. V and AMbang 1 returnig WAVE night of 7 March. WEre not given indication
whether or not ther proposal for Rv Council which they advanced 6 March
to Idcari looked upon favorably.
30. Memo for record by Droller dated 7 March. Verona, Willard Carr and
Ray met on Mrch 6 in Shoreham in D.C. Carr deserived as senior partner in
Bender group. to assume role of primary negotiator in establishment of
revolutionary council. Mr. Carr agreed and he came to Washington where he
was fully briefed and brought up to date by Mr. Droller and Mr. Noel.
@1: Cable dated March 2k, 1961 To JMWAVH from Bell " Numerous FBI reports
Indicate Juesu Gonzalez Cartas alias El Extrano as gangster muderer
smuggler and drug addict who identical with trainee 4882. subj not rpt
not to be used." in handwriting after - " reported also he is one of
Yarona's two bodyguards. The other is equally bad.”
32. Memo fr Recor’ by Droller dated March 27. Varona to go to
Guat. on 27 March.
33 Contact report with Victor Piedra- dated 7 April 1961
34. LCAble dated April 10, 1961. From JMWAVE to BELL indicates v
will be NYC all this week. .
35. Dispatch dated April 13. from JMWAVE re publication by Oralando Bosch
Avila.-coordinator general of the Movimtento Insurreccional dé Recuperacion
Revolucionaria. Blames Varona fye deaths of may patriots in the Escambrayand
aleo blames Americans. * ‘
36. Memo by Droller dated April 2h. Vv will fly to
~~) on 23 april.
37. Memo for record by Droller dated 28 April 26 61 re phone conversation
with Revolutionary Council. Varona called Droller on 27 April and requested
recruits in NY be sent to Guat. Told to refer matter to Mr. Berle. Miro
Cardona called and complained "that while he had promised the pilots én
BMIIDE $30 “hardship pay" an American named "JOe" had made payments of $250.
Miro said that now all returnees would have to get this large amount.”
Hevia also called and siad that the spy Duran Ache should be returned Cuat
to BVenezuela. Told to let Varona handle this matter since he knows the
Duran case base best.
38/ Dispatch from JMWAVE to Chief. by Stanley R. Zamka dated 11 May
On 11 May 1961 AMOT-2 made the following report about his interview with
ambudl : " I was received very effectionately and, after an'abrazo' he
assured me that I was his friend ani that th e proof of this was that I was
in his home, which wes ‘my home.'....He said that after the events of the
week of 17 April and upon the request of V and AMJAG he had called a meeting
of AMBUD, at which AMDIP1 had requested in an insolent manner and a loud
voice that I be replaced in the work I have been doing. The reason given
by AMDIP1 and upheld completely by AMJAG was that I had not told AMBUD}
the day, hour, and place of landing of the army of Liberation, and therefore
AMBUD should withdraw its confidence in me. AMBUD-1 explained to me that
at this time of confusion, and thinking of what was best for Cuba, he thought
tHat he ought to accede to the request of AMDIP-1 and AMJAG.
aa
442104 ay



A % ~ ‘SECRET
Cable, dated May 22, 1961 from IMWAVE to/BELL = aiCOOPcontacted and provided
info: Ael met with MRR undeground leader known only as "Rene" on Marek April
17. Rene told Al that all underground groups had been ordered remain quiet
and not do anything until receiving further orders. Did not know where
message g came from. In addition to Rene, whom he believed to be a pa
former part itime law proffessor at Villanueva University, Al said that
the only other underground leader he had met was a man named Raul whome
he described as tne man in charge of the MRP organiaation following Manolo Ray'
8 § departure from Cuba. Al also admited kmowning an MRP official named

Godoy (FNU} and a rescate member named Juarez but that both men were only
lowere eschelon leaders in their respective organizations.
40. Dsipatch dated 27 May from JMWAVE- ref UFGW 418- AMOT2 advised that
subject has never been amember of DIER. Subject therefore is not identical to
the one Antonio Fernandez of paragraph la of reference. (Subject is BtAntonio
Fernandez Gomez aka Antonio Fergo. ) According to A2 Subject is a close friend
of AMDIP1 and more or less follows the latter's political orientation. a2
said subject represented the firm Publicidad Fergo-Arrego.

KVol T- Aug 57- April 61- Biographic pile
1. PRQ 2- operational information. Answere to questions- 36 thur 58. States
that V was first introduced to James R. Palinger ani Wallace A. Growery by
a contact of Palinger's in May 1957. Has been under development ever since.
Hand written note on side indic&tes Varona was in contact with station for
at least 2 years before this. thru Frau Masal (sp?) Also Varona had direct
contact with Embassy almost continuous for many years. Varona is to
supply info concerning polictieal opposition plans including conspiratorial
movements to overthrow the Government. Hallace A. Growery- Case Officer
2. Operational approval requested on Aug 15 , 1957
3. Request for Investigation and Approval. V is classified as an Indigenous
Piied Field agent.
TW. Operational approval granted 2HuWMEDSH Jan 20, 1958
5. Operational approvel amended for use of V as ade bgent in Project AMPATROL
Granted on AMSMRBS*ROSF Aug 28, 1959
6. Memo from Jorge 7 to Dave Phillips dated June 1960 re Varona.
T+ Biographic Sketch of Varona by E.W. Londregan, Jr. dated 27 Oct 1960.

On march 28 V was invited to U. to set up an anti-kCastro movement. L960

Good summary of Vamona's activities prior to 1960.
8. Background of Varona dated 22 Mrach 1962- No author given but to be
filed }der AMCONCERT1- very negative.
9. Memo fixe record Ho. 403. Dated 27 April 1963- Subject - Meeting vith
¥ to advise him of liguidation of CRC.
10. Document transfer and cross reference. Subject of Documentd- Miami visit
of nile Henceval dated 29 April 1963. UFGA 08675. Pertinent info:
"V. Very pro-American and when asked about Mr. Kennedy's administration, Tony
was amazing. Father Imows best. As a matter of fact whether it was planned or
not he received a call while we were there and unless we had been deaf ewe
couldn't help hearing him say: 'Naturally these raiders are always proud to say
that they do not have any casualties but they do not realize the amount
of casualities that they leave behind because the G2 then grabs those
unfortunate people in the island."

14110123



BB an ‘SECRET

Volumé #8 June 61 to Sept 70. dl

1. Luncheon meeting with Cardona and Ernesto Aragon at Mayflower hotel. Memo
written by Droller. Date. June 9, 1961. Miro re¥ported on meeting of

Miro, Varona, and Aragon with Goodwin and Mr. Schlesinger. who professed
confidence in Miro. Miro gave Goodwin proposed budget for CRC

2. Dispatch from JMWAVE dated June 12, 1961 reported that a rumor in
Miami that V has over $300,000 deposited in an unidentified bank in

Miami. the source of funds is not known. Mario Marre Barrera reported to
be workingf for V in newspaper propaganda and is in charge of radio

prop. Handwritten that Barrer is listed in April budget as receiving

225 $ salary . Barrera claims he gets $150 a month.

3. Cable dated June 14, 196k- V end AMDOBBY] setting up five rendevois
points about five miles outside Havana Harbor for infil/exfil ops. Bell states
thet "Due #$ proposed area of ops and past experience AHDEPS HgS deems
only feeasible support to extent areas/fuel and techical asdist. Unable
assume risk use of JMATE assets or PEPRIME personnel this op at this

time.

4. Memo on Varona payments by Droller dated July 7, 1961--V being paid
900$/month . States that Varona was promised by Mr. Jim Nel in Havana
that he would receive support for operational plans and pérsonal needs.

On or about 20 May 1960 payment was discussed at headquearters.

Out of 900 Varona was to give 200 to chauffeur body guard- Francisco
Zayas. Peid by “Bender check" from June 1, 1960 to Hov 19600

From Non 1960 to March 1961- Varona was paid directly in cash by Hunt.
‘April and May 1961 paid by Bender check from Headquarters. Payments were
in addition to salary received from the FRD.

"AS of 3 July 1961, I was of the opinion that we should not pay Varona any-
thing more under the table, but in view of the Special Group decision, if
I am correctly informed, of encouraging our dealings with numerous

Cuban groups ani personalities, it might be wise to keep in touch with
Varona for some time and pay him some reasonable amount as nothing

cements friendships better than money.!

Routing slip datedd 10 July contains remark that we should hold off

on any further payments until the air clears and until we get instruttions.

- Right now Varona is one of our most bitter critics. I don't propose to buy
him off. (Can't read initials)
7 Verona called CIA on July 7. has been designated

as replacement for Jerry Droller in liaison matters with Cardona.
6. Dispatch dated July 10, 1961 from JMWAVE Major Robert E. Van Horn
USAP, Assistant air attache to Cuba assigned to the Miami area.~ liason
with Cuban pilots in Miami
7. Memo for record- by dated 7 July 1961. Contact
with Varona. Varona is in DC stating at Roosevelt hotel. Will be in DC
3 or 4 days. Chamberlain gave mame of Raymond Clark. Varona asked
several questions re state of affairs. Got no answers. Asked how
to get in touch with General Taylor. Told to go through Mr. Goodwin.
8. Contact with Varona on July # 11 1961 and Vagona
wented money for three prisoners who are now stranded at Mariott. N ote on
side says no- quid pro quo clear on this.
9. Meeting ## of AMIRON members on 26 July. Trying to oust V. Attended
by V and fight started. Police came and arrested several people. Alfonso
L. Tarabochia, deputy sheriff in Miami sheriff's office told AMOT3 that

_ no charges would be pressed. Took action during arrest only against people
eritieizing V. Tarabochia held over 2 hour conversation with V. 444 a

eed


SECREL

10. Sept 9, 1961 Cable from JMYAVE Indicating Consejo Revolucionario
Cubano and Frent Revolucionario Democratico will merge around 15 Sept.
Miro Cardiona will be head and V will be second. Will retain name of CRC.
11. CRC meeting NYC OCT 9, 1961- Varona was present.
1D. Memo fro recora dated 16 June 1962- Conversation with Verona. Memo
4342. Report by PASSAVOY.

13. Vapona visted San Jose on L 17 August 1962.

Th. on august 15, 1962 Varona visited President Roberto Chieri of Panama and
requested a meeting of Central Anerican chiefs of State on Cuban issue.
Comment in cable that rumors in Miami that efforts are being made to
convince President Chiari to permit the establishment in Panama of

Cuban Gov't in exile.
15. V. returnted Mimai on Aug 2h.
Té. V now in Wash. Veeting with Hurwitch ( Nov 2, 1962.) Meeting held
on Oct 31.

17. Cable Dec 5, 1962+ On dec 2 meeting with Honduran pres Morales and
several other leaders of Cuban group V made lenghty statement that

CIA was responsible for current lack of activity and that CIA was
working behind back of Kennedy.

18. ¥arona departing Jan 11 for San Jose. 1963."
19. Information report. deted Jan 17 1963 While. Varona was in Costa

Rica an unnamed large landowmer of Costa Rica wet to the Miami headquarters
of Rescate to discuss the leasing of some of his coastal land in Costa
Rica to Varona. When Varona returned to Miami, he was quite irritated to
learn that the landowner hed called hin his absénce.

20. Memo . On 16 Sept 1963 Dr. Martin Pella met with Varona and luis
Botifol in Chicago. Pelled informed V and Botifo were discussing the
pessibiltiy of setting up an export-import business for trade with Latin
gmerica with Hyman Berg, a chicago automotive parts man known to
have sold jeeps and parts to Castro in 59 and 60. Told Pella they
were broke and frustrated. V. told Pella that he ran into Paijfolino
Sierra in Wicaragua., who had a role of about $10,000. Told Varona
he was being backed by big business in Chicago and was ina position

to get millions for an anti-Castro revolution.
21. Cross reference that V's right hand man is Mario del Canal Ferrer.-
2T Feb 196).
22, Report of June 7, 1965. States that after CRC fell into disrepair
¥ moved from Miami to NY and became automobile salesman.

23. Letter to ¥ Olien - HOFACT from Varona dated 23 Dec. 1966. Return address
111 W. 4end St, apt 302 NYC 10036. Woodrow C. Olien.
2k. Cable 1970- Sept. Reports tint Varona, Carlos M. Torres, and Snrique
H. de Franco have given planed march to Vashington full support on behalf
of executive board of Cuban revolutionary Parfy in northern U.S. March is
under Cuban power control ani true purpose is to picket vhite House dvith
slogats Freedom of the Seas and Freedom for Basch. ff

25. @$ 2h April 1961 report written by Robert F. Moroney- re ‘ustody
of Revolutionary Council 19-20 April 1961 . Also describes a little meetings
with Kennedy after Bay of Pigs

qyranice

