# 180-10145-10371

## Page 1

180-10145-10371

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

3111150

DCA Files i Arents

Jones, Moris Heary: To pertinent information

Track, Peekard Cyrel: No pertiat tafomation

defrmation Report 10-00-4-3169910 Jane a repost is 201 file

Mit'll, Delete I. And Martes, Killer I.

Information Repoet No. 00-4-3169975: Leport of Iformation of.

tained dusy pered of lyguet S- My U1.5. Muciness.

woman. Who, In Yelta, wehead converation of 2 brewer

men wis she later recognized (ror newspaper reports i,

plots) as Mitchell; Master Who had just defected

Halperts, Ташие I.: Contame ly uprivates fits sheer

se Helpera de Cuba. No desect CIA cAntact. Molfo. MUSSR

SECRET

180-10145-1037

---

## Page 2

ACA fulls (cont.)

3111151

Ricardelle, Kibero

-10/3/60 Memo, Chief, Suppet Back to Chief FIllake ISR;

Re: Ai tree sequent if 9/a8/60 re Ruciardelli - Files reflect no

pricent contact; c0/00 Field has been adwised of sence tittiest

- Ills Memo, Chief. Boston Tuld Office to Chi, Contret Aurision;

Re: Request for ap. thR for purpose. of faulitating contact.

- 1/15/43 Yees Chef, Bratin Affice (Capt D.. 'tell) firm Chef.

Irstect Durin; RE: Background in A (lase 41096) fiom os files

wheel date back to 1958-Indueates no Need of say other comprect

of aquey having an interest is subject.

- Reput 00 -A-3, 269, 279 if info developed during witial derrefing

on 1/18/63 Declude detal in felloure suljeet areas:

1. Motuation to defect to USSR

2. Initial cortact w/USSR

3. Asswal in U55e

4. Withe declaration of intest to beine a so. cetien i subaquent

Soviet follow-up

scial retires duseg thi stay is Meow-

8. Renderce controls, casts i maintenance

SECRET

-9124/u3 Memo, Chef, Pereruel Security Durin, DS to Chef Catact Airwor;

Rs: to ejection from FBI to propsed uterogation of Subject IRicialle-

---

## Page 3

Despeles

Peccardelle (coxt.)

- Mlemo, Memo, Chief, Bister effee to Chef, CA illa: El/USS (Acoles);

Re: Attacked sults of ist debreper sers (1/18/63) induate doubt ar

to yearblity of fuster detrefige as July. has sutritled appeal to State

Dept. to regain 4.5. citizenip; thefre dis stry seen will shearsed.

- suggests an independent ultrew with is were as... "Here is

a feng that muck god normation is wrable ne a sist of thei

raider in the USSR. It will be difficult to get it from des

buses of the appeal youtyeakep bet ale, ast been nfitsted

With the same problem, may we welling to tell all.

- Some deas of tip. that is sadly available from wither is addition

to operational support data would ie; eat of ling details i farily

budgets, medical care, concumer goods, persons uty place? legiways.

new tatution, puble ith ity taxupritation agaten i Use costols,

ratueted areas, ete.

ProfessnAlexca.a.doacherok.co.a

1170 Blated 10/02/63: R4: Yell Newed by

sance on set Wizen Who had been R's nest door rughter.

Inducate porciblitg of weing R as a souse of ip. on Lickereaks.

- 1/1/13 Mens, Chief, Bete Huld Offue to Chief, Cstact Durin.

Reflects Intact / Ron 1/5/63 petemunary serening al intent to

thoroughly defrief Ri

SER

---

## Page 4

DEJ

Kieseter, Lobet E

Fille reflects:

- Corespondence between Petiter and Tarned H. Rand III of the Raed

suelopment exporation

- List of Moan! Peteation Ats fror N.I. Heater

-ernt 60-8-3.232,798; Bate f Dist. 8/14/12; 2: Merengead Suentee

actor was

- Demo from 10/59 1e Kibitis defection i Whether any attempt tch wreng

sis regarding te defection

Heros from.

mutterest (scept of lettes fire What to His father Rands intertir to okl

Helete While in Sout Male in May 1960) Suller mene continue

trough Mry 1962.

- 6/20/62 Memo, Chiy, Contact Dision, Ee/uSSK to Chif Fitabugh office:

RI: DER would like full derrefing on Ns work; shl6 and dis Fole all interested

in partepsting

3111153

- 1/23/67 Memo, Desctor, DCS to Chief, Pitterngl Field Office

- se dersion of s is inteuted in beeping track of Mabet still ore

of the iterpreters who acerted in in te USSR han now tee augsed

to the UN.

sequent mense ate tickles oursets bit do ast the due cortet'

---

## Page 5

Hester, Rok. E. (cox).)

{57-4/28162 Mero, B.K.Stewart, I1., Puttergh F.O. to SILES; RE: CA2

38246 - Arrangemeits have ween misde to defief Setatte it 1/1/62

i Pitergh representatives from Sel, Ai tree Ittergh offle

of c0K.

Is: wed representatire seport o vital intertie laot attacted

3111154

-SECRET

---

## Page 6

Hebster, Rovet

CI/01 7e

SEGRE

23÷24, 1962 dose on Aquent of Rudey Balaires, 5R/6

Repret is tied almit watily on paychslogical tee.

Fiot the

the the picion of Liking:

nom am

Kennete A. Brat

Acting thie, Irewest Bravel

Asserument i Evaluation Steff.

3111155

SECRET

6.

---

## Page 7

ДC.А Filles

WH736

Inforsation Lepret N6. 00-A 3219522 CAL 2610

Information from luber souce se Jones employment in luca

for 6161 to 7/62.

Track, Kelsed lyul

WH69

Auline passenger marefects some are not legible);

appears to show travel of

3111156

SEGRET

---

## Page 8

salinew with Watte P. Haitigan 3111157

late: Juse 13,1978

A copy of the santees litter was gled to Y Vattigan Not.

with read it and indiested that the understood the corte its.

I Th. Hettgar was guer a lipy of CIA +435-173-A

whee insists of a Co lette dated 12/12/63 for Lobert It.

Kampill to the Cheeps of SR And We ad to the Cheef of Stator

in Pius younding

a memo dated 11/25/103

whe was

WIlts H Homas B Casoos to halter.?.

дак сысечкинд

I's losers puis nitreet in the Henry Oswald. Thes drunt

wild de the cats to one queting

H Haltigas stated that in 1963 the sewed as thief of the Joret

Section of the Pals station under

pore. tie explaised

Get lawisen was ales an offich is the Parks stition but ite

ait-outs to make. contact with others in the Pares station.

Due to the nature of this wrangementS lasasen frequently

unite informal mered suck as the le he +435-173-A WIck

were the pad aling to the station. There mere Withed ther

it younded o Headquarters, generally in

y salligas. In

this partier nature, tempill, whe sued in a ge

Arwarded the lette t Headquarters cause Hallgar WAs IN

the dissital at the tike.

H baltigan explained the following portions of lasasha mers:

-"REDWOO" represeats. the soviet Kerior.

DECRE

- the 'bBrich" Was the Sperational Support and Keseated Beach

for the soret Dursion. Is mair furation wits tie collection of

8.

---

## Page 9

3111158

information. lates was buf of the b Blared wath his transfl

to Pass.

-китит was the cryptonym for the office of Operations which

is envestly knows as the DCD. If the CIA wished to contact a

stung defect, it would have made cortet throug this ffice.

soure, tattigar stated that it probably was not stand ad spels-

ling produce to unturew returning deputors due to a vailty

of yactoes suck an a lack of people follow-up measles a the

Jet thet these lashe would clave fallen into the juredition

Of the FBI.

- DACID was the uptoryn for the state sep gitment. Haltiga

uxplained beat it was not unusual that Carden would have sela

I Stait Departneat despatch in Oswald as it would have bles

nute to neur satet of state Repartment menas.

-licasis rectletion of loving disted the Dstald eh.

Summer 1960" ad stated is the merry, smust have been a mis

mean the slopose

take- Irated, It probably should that id of 1962

-BI refera to belgraphie information.

- 180N6p was a cryptings for a love which was probably

I wusses fur. KuDOVE was the cryptonyis for the DAP.

Haltigas explaced that in paragraph 3, Carasies spelet

that ihe was phasing out of the DDP alogetter sestead, les

refueace to phasing out of the DDT seferred sily to chee

Hadquarters degreest loither DDP.

ALDERA

- we the legal Traveller program, Wherely they (te BAP)

gave ste halling to sort se countries set squis.

meets wid they sported sick to the lay at thei reteer.

9.

---

## Page 10

Use was sill to which a peason pleked up in sure for.

With do tatuest glide who the moussed He caine out of the lis

Is the SUs of 1862 ald des wife was permitted to fold this some

the couple was eventually disred as the mered ife. Maltagas

staird that it wild Haulel you Yound Oswald to ie allied to

eate the Somet lates as not mary

1 sout we were permitted

to clause !

deveng that time pende

-Haltiger si pled ar to the sifle see to the hey story"

In the last live of the sero. He first stated that it sled chale

Ack a typsgiaphical u whick should have bees the "Oswald

stry

lited. Then it was posted out liat the sente ale contille

So st referees to dawald which make it intely that

this with merly a typographies uno, the expreed Lowes

With respect to the repeke. He could thut of a explanation

You tike, not did the Mil we speat to tase alte

itis polst.

3111159

Hagar recalled that te guwed in Parie for dee agriment

и бла, 1962 and tet laiden pistably arwed there is Septentl

of the same year Haltiges stated that is had never lead did

sumere to the effect that Oswaed slad been used by the CIA at

any time. He felt that because of the assigninents wither the

Agey, he would have wen is a position to taow f Oswald

And been wed in day caprecty. He seationed Hat he had beek.

plum 1951-1955 and tat lean Fle her there from

10.

---

## Page 11

1955#1958 x1959.

June 1158 Katel 4/61, Haltigan Worked In SRI Wheek

was speede Operations wither the Soret UNER. SR/9 WAs or pored

Of to pens at the taxe. He explained that Sello was repossible

yo the Yeaal Travellers program will Walesed IS. Ultzers and that

travelling to the WiSh yader the progear, he expussed the welf that

it tas alret possible for then not to have knows of Daward

had had some wisement with the Agery is this capacity

He Haltigan need that sR19 was Maple for maintaing ite

they would ile able to week it through the fles. Howner, Agery ar-

sociation woulk not it betty spleted in a 201 pule, Wactead,

11160

201 Ми rument the person wout not what the plist to docke

A 201 fle tied contals a PRA, Part I Which ke entirely brograph-

ual aprination, a secunty chick. and nurpaper cupping bAili

He indurdeal. A take file, on the the land, reflect the opiate ric

afrimatter. A case file would have a tits part munter, such as

"4-6, where the fust suster reflects the country o ars of wteet

and the and muable refers to the speepie pation. In regard to the

weaklity of lase files, Hattiger steted that the area of pumary

witest i nepleted on a 201 file pening det and that it eat.

go to that itired to seek spectascal itorsation.

When asked about the syrequence of O/SIt opening Disrelds 201

---

## Page 12

file Heligan repoided that is couldnt Mally say as the doe

Halteger was asked whethe it was poseble to purge or indurduals

•fee of dey speratiral ursatis by simoing axy nunce colds in

We 201 file and then smoving the putterent unattore for the

sas file Helen sied thet te des sit it of this type of lig

evential on the pistition of the splatton and streed that 521912

partular. was.nettulous. is its fele maciterance

3111161

SECREIN

---

## Page 13

SEGRET

Internew with marguete D. Stevens,

Fate: Jude 13,1978

3111162

Us. Stovers was gwer a copy of the ones lette whelpse

she read it and induated that she had no questond conceing the

coxtesta.

As. Stevens stated that Ill Was implyed ily the LIA fros 1445

natel her stiversent

I 1968, dusing Was time she was alagned

to the Securty Keach Staff Withis the Office of Secuty. She stated.

that she was spupeally aigred to the Il porters of this staff a a

reseeker. Gentually, she had seouty is hee department Will

lad a wearing on the spece yor asgame its, whet she dld not

have ary wind of supery attorty. Susing the late 1950's and

early 1960's, she bluer. that stefuld twards wits wed of th

Affece of sty tile Buce Solle And his deputy, Talk Rempy,

we list more mimediate superised

The Steers aduled that the pulpise of the office of scutty is

I en that the geey is not penetrated. Its responsibilitte, were

i conduct it ground wurstigations de all potential esployles and

to deal weth defectos pro othe cousties is untalading thell wors

fides and the gathering in frmation for these. She chad no unmedect?

meletin of any dealings with linercan defectice.

Ms. stevens Was given a copy of a 1031/60 Menhaidu to the Chef,

sunsty Redead staff wheth she ad witter on the subject of ameit

can defectors. After reading the menandes, the advered that she

walled has ques on truean deto i Mill to detest

Whette three perses had perchated the CIt and tous whetter ary

f then prevented a suity si, is the ley. She staked bat

---

## Page 14

-SEORET

3111163

she did it kat Whethe be compests within the ige

would have iver appused that file had then opened in thet

indurduals mistied is this mers. Thes acked if she ener

Hak. Egester, The stever replled that she tall le and

worked with des perpseally.

In regard to ta 10/31/60 mers, 12. Sterers was aked about the

significance of the live, "Several of the slove refered t defectors

nave ter of interest to LIA:". The attre refered to defectors"

belated SusH. Miteell, Killian H. Martin, Catest E. Ketster,

Xe Harney Oswald, tetero tucidelli, Madimi Slotta ded

Teph Duttawly. It Just Me Stever stated that WHo Was of

interest because of the assassination but when it was pockted out

to in that the mens was writter tree years before the rosassica.

tio, she stated that She could not recall the signuance. The

stated that ins" indicated a muscellase us Office of seculty

ile wheed would ite und for axyting oter than an unplyse

file. She stated that a newspaper elepping on a defectr would

have been cause to open a pile for future reprence purples

Ms Steers was shows a lopy of the 10131159 Dept. of State

telegram regarding Oswalds dyatus, and his ole to gove the sirets

womation epsted dian the military sence. Thes document,

in the ouglad, appeare in the fice of security's file or Oswald.

the Stevens stated. that she had as recollection of working with the

Oswald lake unt after the accasuation, an did She ded Who

would eve wived this doenest in the affice of Security. The tated

Hat she did not taw whether, the I staff would have weed this

formation, but she thought that bey should here had it.

Ma. Stures stated that site could not

At male we quing a all file.

---

## Page 15

SEGRET

3111164

Ms. Steers advuld that the tall of ms Agedy itliation of Oswald.

She stated that she recurd much infraction referding the swald

ease and some of it ufleted an agley consents.

In reguld Is the wassis stigation, the stress stated that thay

were interested in tying that ted to LAD t day Way Wher asked

If It It had as pusinal intest is Way shaw, she reuprided that

she realled molling sig initin with Shas oke than the gearse

'Wis struck Tole wake. The ex placed that this phrase must

ran bold t. Ts. stavers stated that She all is

y the agery. to ipede the sales westigation

к аку талли.

she recalled spading a lot of tree of lies

investigator, whet considered. It to have tres perfectly normal

to have done so sa light of their satist in the Kennedy arrassation

And in tHe She wither stated hit the Agency would have te netally

with the ETA.

He Steeras, was asked about in Knowledge of the HTRINSUAl pro-

gran. She adused that Sle trew bat the per of Secury had

something

to do with the projle, but that she lad no speeful tirowledge

incung it.

Tune I of fle 351-164, the office of Secty file on surel, ts

shows to ta. sterers. The stated that she lad no recollectin of raving

speed that file and noted that the raadurting in the nurepaper

Upping. at the Legmaing of the file was not is cur. She did serog-

neze ces netial, ne cheing ba some of the otter doments and identefed

LIA. 1249-1010 ar bring an Office of securty ider sach request

SEGRET

---

## Page 16

DEGRET

that she had Ordered to It Mer on Mesica Nicholawka Oswald,

„Hec

Oswald and Maria Pullakova In 10/1161. She did not Wall what

prompted this requeed at the tike. The stated that this type of

file was malialed in to defece of Secty file 1000).

We steers stated that in ugard to the phet-austration westige.

tion of Oswild, She shad the sace seeps cbility for the office of securty

3111165

BLOTE:

---

## Page 17

3111166

Internew with Mera Vellmy Visce

Dete: 6/28/78

entewiewed by Betty Nolf And an Hardway

This. Vase was guer a lopy of the ones lette which sle

rad.and.indueated. tat.sde understood.

Are to ite exployment with the CIA during the pedod 1961-1964,

1hr. Vance stated that she wild inplayed in a full-time capsetty

an a cortect specalet in the has Angeled office of the lintect Duri

suk of the Office of Operations Until TUre of 1962. lit that tine,

She got maried and noved to beaver where she worked put tinie

is a contact speccalet.

She stated that ther reposities a the praction estated later:

weving people throughout the tinkleaty Who had traveled olas

Sher aoked how she became aware of the SUCh person, the stated

that they tae to the attention lagly through apa asticles,

refessalis.. and nadence purlations. Most of der leads wie

developed on he or rather Her flose intructio foin Headquarters.

She aduled that traveler were not wally contacted, prits to.

their departul. surce the Coatect sueen Would not the aware of

these at that point.

Ms. Vaxe stated whle she, as a costa specialut, whete

not ay kind of infrimation firk der contacts, she pumarly sought

informatess at Was not puble trouledge. Kith regard to plotograple,

she ad eed that photographs of the soviet bass were to thy checked

to ice if the were day of witted at, millay witallatte, it

sit peats appeared to the of Interest, ty were sent to Headquarter.

in lous the aded that she did not now what happened with teet

to the photos at headquarters, Me. Vance sold that the photos would nit initely

---

## Page 18

3111167

- 9955

he seat act to her, wherepon she would return them to her contacts.

Me. Vance was gwen a Copy if FOIA De. # 614-261 WRICk is

the 3/20/64 menrandes to the FBI unforming them of the photo of tho

which was found in the CIA's felle. Ae the. Vance read the dolment,

all crisent was that it was "anning She stated that she had

no recheets of he costact with slee

кажи and Ланаю. Sie cold

semenku going to Solving ibet could not serenice th malle of

the costat. The also stated that she ld sell sile this particular

document. The turks that these please probably care to tes

Atteation lose the so ligeles sewspaper o lorn the readine

community. but ill has as speeple mensly as to the uncurtant

suourding this certact

He Dance adured that, is regaid to photographs, the Agency was

not interested in touset attraction wut is photographs tat night

sode fration of a mitary, seestifle a geographical

nature. Then saked whether there were ay segulatise gownig

Contret sirsion contacts and tolkection, He InHe repleed that

they did. have utiet guidelves fur people and photoglaphs which

would have been in the your of utter equineste that whe

periodically, apdated. Have she could not well the speles

of these requirements.

No. 'ane aded that she ded not Monente why totographs were

takes from tous La thy the lyuey wed the steps this.

She belers that she would have seit the plots to headquatter weeps.

they would hall been werewed and utiled to les for sethle to

Tis. Кгане..

I PILA to the ANaNDATIN AFA 11

O0le collectore regarding the four cartudge of sudes reced isy the. Viale

---

## Page 19

3111168

Itta Velly) from Mrs. Kames. Tis. Vace advised that she would

save prepared this and sext it t headquarters. The doesn't treate

Whether tadquartes wer contected du segaiding the substance of the

plotte. She then looked at a 4130/62. Zucentation Horn for trapice

Material treesing the above-mestered tatulages along with an

ettled dig decising the content of the cartridger. Ju dried

that the be hegler office would have pupared this thet tied in tel

litet with tre. Kame. In light of the fact tet the dst spelfually

notes the pressace of an Satant glide I some plots, 13s. Vaale

was arted whether pasturest guides ur a speele uguesent tit

plots chess. He response wis negative.

A copy of a photograph marked 11-12546 was shown to Me. Pall.

she adorsed that the categoes heted along the bop side of the plotgrand

are pitally fling syster refuses but the stated that site

We not familiar with the mannes in whick plots were filed

or referened at Headquarters. Is to the sigafece of the particular

photo, Me. Vance stated that she does not know why they would wave

copied this plots ten aly want wold have bees the fast ther

He was a Mare and before presibly construction in the saceglound

At this ports, Ms. Vasee said, 'Who on waith ever dested

Oswald in that pecture? Some are mulet have spent a lot of three

ging trough photographe."

Ms. leace was shows a copy. of WA-63368. She sderued thet it

looked like a telegran fron the lostact Suppot swision at

masquarter to the Nolage office. She stated that sile wid

nutcontacted cly ayose I the Agery regarding the outta ding

in general

---

## Page 20

SERRATI

3111169

In regard to deformation Leprit # 00-8-3,212,967, a report of der

coxtect with hase and Damar, De. Vance advesed Iat this it

He standald your wed Ir an intowiew repot and that it was

notice not to name the soule is SUll a downest as it Wat

soutrely discerinated to otte agens He sole's mane would

It wald is a transmittal i pither sheet because these wes uternal

dscuments. The also stated. that the ravon that the photos wiest mus.

tened in the interew report was due to the diffecent interests of the

people receing this type. of report.

Ms. Vance stated. that she had never been untied regarding

her costact with Kaner and Neman Old the photo costaling swald

by the CIA, the FI or te. Harren Communer de futter adied

that this was the fist time i had wee teen trought to dee attention.

SECRET

---

## Page 21

C2:3111170

A memordsour dated May 25, 1978, from B. Mugh Jocar,

Cheep, Countentellegence staff to the Special Arsestaat i DDO for

External Oceright (Ata: h. Norbet Sheparck) regarding

the ASCA'S requents for lefimation of Apiel 6, 1978. And May k2,1978.

in standed squating predes with repet to repatriating

smiles defectors stated the following

1) Cady 10 of 119 returning. U.S. defetors were interrewed

by the CIA, pumauly. My the preduce or Donetic Contacts

Durecon.

2) Here. was no poley to debuf suming Anewar redefectes

fron the USSR. the LIA selled A He FBI or reporting the note

of utewrews it may have conducted in cornetess with it.

responsibility for internal sculty matter.

3) Hue are no manualo or Megulates fre the peud 1958:1963

Nich spefuelly added the sulgect of U.S. defectors

is

---

## Page 22

SEGRET

3/2|78

(2)

Could Sermon

893-9102354) 2. 3128/62 MFR, Suget :

421.923

(N01.5))

1/2/64 Memo for: Art Wif of Staff, latel Dept. f Arry, Atta: Du. of See.

sedj. Jeet. In NCR re Dutharles i Sloboda

Info. lovesteally same as that contaiod in 893-911

1/16/65.

986-92°-BC.

(UN. 53)

Article entitled "Store to Ispere Defects Study A Rot S Allen ind

Paul Scott

988-927-B2

(431.53)

2/2/65 Dispatch, Chefe of all Stations From Cheef, KUDOVE;

Re: Selected exuppte fion V. C. tatemary, pertiest portions

of which have cheer side-leed.

3111179

SECRET

z9.

---

## Page 23

3/15/78

3111171

1244-1010 Ladles serich Request

.. f. 10/9/61.12:

1. Oswald, Marina Nicholacna

2. Oswald, tee

3. Prusakova, Marina

NJA.

Beget produced flouring if. as 8f 1012/6.:

„Rayond).

NA. .

..FNU. Card - Mrs.

ns 1164 - See Havey

1250-1010

.. 9/28/61. Lip. or Marena Nicholaura Oswald, nee husatera

1286-1018

7/29/64 MFR ; subjeet: MarkE. Martia

RE: 7114164 Ketter wutter by Mrs. Mark E Marter to deveatia,

Moreow ne US. get contact w/defectors, treluding Oswald

---

## Page 24

3/1/78

2

Arend Audien

3111173

• 12. ADP Reaperce to. State, dated 1/21/60 (DOP D: 6003-secret)

• 13. LATHAl CIA Rea: for Spensay Of 201 fele, 12/9/60 (scret).

r 14. sal ICHD Of Convuisation datia

1/26/61.(0н6)

15. State Shetruetion A A 4/13/61 (OuD).

: 16. H.S. Quipated 806, 5/26/61. (040).

29, 1/1/61 (040)

:.18. QB 82181, 1/1316 ((nf.).

IRent of talk hain]

- 19: Internal LIA MFR, 4/18/51 (seret)

... 20.7.5. Respatek 317, 10/12/61 (0u0).

216 I NS Mare Cheel Rea, 1215/61.

22. Mavy. THessage 20191/RB/ 3, 3/3/62 L(oRk.)

23. DNA 1624, 4/26/62

24. pape lying, Wed Feet, 619/62

25. 61. 20883, 9/1/62 (A)...

- 26 OBA 51407. 9/10/63

-r. 27.: ABA 52355, 9/21/63

28. BBA 65115, (# unelear), 1/163.

29: ABA 55.774, 1118/63.

r. 30. A Sunmary Heport A Atures of O in M.C. deted /3168.

While you notes on bully file illude serve of above, it i Arely

not same file, though there are many ple-asches dose I it.

See nest page.

SEe

---

## Page 25

3|1|78

(3)

3111174

1) Sword problem i that pred dy 568-910 (i VOl. 26 of L403 201).

2/2/64 Memo for: Chief, LI/REA; RE: DoRs Quellelle in 03 201 file

1. Rechine diting of does. offerally reersed is ibering in

05 201 file war reg.? Is attached (It is not at. . Ih

actual machese work of the type war begur i 1963,

Aut a ew itens of perons dates vere also scorded

2."D conquith of the does, physelly avalable in the 201.

file i thre reended an weing in the 201 fele das shoro

that 37 does. Which should ce. in 201 file are not wail

it this total a made up.o,

adepateles.

I memoranda. from. FBI.

2 SD dock

25 cables

Hardwitten note: The keeploily in laet Vol. 8f. 05.201.

Aaotre....

"File le, date (intelled, but unclear).

SECRE

---

## Page 26

Betay Half

5/31/78

Refector Repatrots to. US (1958-63)

3111175

4/20/10 Mens, R.Hugh Jovar, Chief, CI Steff. to Specal

Nasstaat to ADD yor Enal Oresght; Atte: I. Nocket Shepaack;

RE: HISCA Request for deformation

In reaponce, I Staff has completed a sere of files of 11T

13, persons Who had defected to the US between 1958 And 1463

and who have sace stuised to the A.S. Keew shows

- To proceduse for syatenate LIA debreling of there persons;

- Costetta appear. to be taed on opportunty and wenstance

Only 10 of the III pess. wave had cattet with IIA as follows

1. Thomas Moradar (201-094398)

- Heat to USSR in 1947; left USSR in July 1960.

- Series of viterruws. Dy CTA in 12/60 which revealed contact

with. KGB.

- No sabequent intact with Subject

2. Joseph Marshall: (201-290220)

- Employed in hillushes in 192...

- Arrested by Sorets i 1945; seleased froz puessa 121956.

- Reparted 455. 6R 12/9/60.

- serfed by ACD for pretive intelligence; also cy. SE Dwision.

- No contact after. 5/61

SECRE

---

## Page 27

3. Joumaro Sgolo (201-289973)

- Heat to USSe with parento in vally, 1930s; departed Is 1960 for Rome.

- Contacted initially by HII..

- Deduefed by CIA a lose In Tak-Fet. 1962 after. FOn granted for

purpree of possible use agathet other stallate starting prose

USSR and preside insuledge of operational leads I USSR

- No contact after 5/63.

3111176

4. Tray Mackles: (201-761570)

- Keat to NSSR In 1931; worked there as translator i moussed a Sowiet.

Who allegedly was offices in NKV A Red Army attlifesce. He late died.

- Returned permarcatty. to US ia 1965.

- DCs satected her, on dehalf of 3E Dirits, in If 22.

-sinterewed or mercent is referting sone as she planced.

to travel to USSR in 3/73. Retrufed after trip In. 5/13. The rezuested

no further contact...

S. Sonia (201-239896) and tired Asianian (201-143598).

- Renounced U.S. citizenship and enegrated to Armenia ix 1748;

retursed to.4.5. ià 1964.

- Rebrefed. Ay. DCD.

b. Jeck Muralsky; sha tural: (201-063001).

- reparted In USSR 1/934; servinced I. 3. car

- Reprtedly imprised in USSR Ca.1947 Kilenting o wher

to U.5.

SECRET

- Released from piles. 1955; came trailster for stret deforma

tron Bureau.

---

## Page 28

3

6. (coRt.)

- Retarred to U.5. in 1966 as hurrant.

- Sateurewed Ay. BCD In 1973.

7. Yuless Ricardelle: (201-289238)

- Seat to USSR Ia 1959.; retursed to U.S. In 6/63 as inmigrant.

- Refuefed by DCA in bratsi.

8. Hold Litrynell: (201-275418)

3111177

- Neat to USSe Ma (zeckoslovakia. a 2/27/58

- Reparted USSR on. 6/29/59.

- Untengly intenrewed. ly CIA office ot US. Inbarly in leptshagen.

- Subjett may have been interewed. ly DC stretine after dis

retars to 4.5

1. Robert Edward hekter (201-265-472)

- Disappeared in Moreow is 9/59 afte particupation with Rand

Reslopment Corp.sa.4960202 Wold te; Renounced U.s. atzenship

Dr 10/11/59.

- Returned t. 4. 5. de innegiant on 5/20/62.

- Debreefed cy various elements of In.

SEGR

---

## Page 29

3/2/18

830-358-A

(N01.49)

890-433

892-909

-SEGRET

Betay Wolf

3111178

9/W/s4 Ketter, Parker to Ailini, requeting confunation that

CIA reed. & state Dept. commusations wick were

mextired. I 590-252 (3/6164 Mero, Hels to Rackin

se Lap. in LIA'S Possession RE. LHD Dur to 1122/63) - abs part

These does all do Uket IX Bully 61.27 XARZ-22595. w/up.

tox of 3/3/62 Mavy Herage 20197/18/3 Whill ie listed as

unsalable be file, but available at National Auckwes

No new raf. in thes doe:

Re Joshin Joester

This dee la CD 1532-

10/2/64 M7FR, subjeet: V.C. Keport -Lafo or Dutkariez i Setsde,

Wis were mentioned a VCR as having tres macked to

Riny het. Matto in HiDes. pur to thee depections in sumber

of A60. His no, esteed was casufled, ass mutakealy

mustads the HCR

893-910

on Artearily. i Sloboda

1. Dathasey- meations perciled motations in 201 file suggesting ling

assignment may have eluded stell fusctions of stre kead.

2: Bot defers had preroes KGB connections.

3. Immed. cause of defection appedes to de Bit scity invertizations.

Attachinest

1) Case Summary 2:62:2 on Arthanie: Pepared by soductick Braced, Istell

DUrsoR, HO HSARDUR, APO 403, US FORCES.

SEORET

---

## Page 30

SECRET

3/2/78

2)

843-410eit.)

[24 7

2. MFR, MER, Suljeet: Ilez. Ilez. GrIS for ittriw w/ Pu. Soboda

921.923

(Vd1.51)

112,64 Memo. for: Deet Uhif of Staff, Pate, Bept. f Arry, Atta: Au. of See

Sudj: Feet. 1a NCR ne Putkaaly I Sloboda.

fo. eventially same as that contaiond in 893-910.

986-92"-BC

(VN.53)

Article entitled "Sten to Popse Refecte Study Sy Rid S. Aller Ind

Paul Scott

988-927-BD

(431.53)

212/65 Dispatch, Chefe of All Stations From Chef, KUDOVE;

Re: selected exuppte fion N.C. tatemary, pesterest parties.

of which have teen side-lived.

3111179

SECRET

---

## Page 31

SEGRET-

3/8/78

961-927-46

(Bulky Vd. 51)

96d-927-AH

they is. 51)

2/9/12 Ketter, Feastewald to.kiet. to Du., CIA

requerts ay records petaining to desping of kH10 ty A C2

dekalf of CIA after he retour from USSe.

Refuis to Meli statement. f 4/14/1 befre Am. Seety of Newspaper

Editors in N.Y. C. (MY.T. 4/15/11, p-30) that... if there is a charee

that if a private uzen traveling aroad has dequired

forgs nornation that cas the useful to the Areas polymate,

we are cetacaly going to try to intrew him" tuscterated.

sited that hiD appeas to fee suck a person.

Henstuwald

Leeprise to 2/9/72 lette; Refere to titimony of MelAne Allis

*This titimony, under oath, made car that this Agency

never contacted Oswald, wittwrewed him, tatked with chim,

i recewed r soluted any. reprte He up fuse his, r.

cokmuxuated.w/en duectly.om.aay.otker marke

This tortimary is still sled; trefre, the mo you request.

does not exist."

3111180

ilj Vo1.51).

159-927-0 41/1/12 Vetter, Bensterwald to Angus. M. Ikuerrer, Ned to Dui., CIA

States that

2/18,72 letter

site conclusions "bused upon state

must of persons other then younself." I aike for chie

(tune's) pretive wl respet to these nerds

970-927-AP

u to1.51)

4/1312 Deaft of Ketter, d. 1. Theres to Fentered.

Keepse to alt 4/1/12 dettle-that lette of 218/12 is a sumple SONG)

---

## Page 32

3|8|78

970-927-117

(coxt.)

decorative statement in the west precible authorty that this?

адежу neve had any costact a isield i that, therefore, the

no. sought y you in your letter of Feet. It does not exist i?

never did exist.

976927A4. 121164 Artle i Nach. Pret Intelled "1960 Repetors Her Led

Ex-lgests"'

RE: Sloboda i Datharlez

1031-405

(Vol.

12/5/66 MFR

3111181

---

## Page 33

SECRET

3/10/78

1038-405-3

(C.D.984)

5/19/64. Ketter, Melre to Rankin; RE: Encole of affedauet t

the effect that WHO waL not agent, implayee oi informast of CIA..

whatt affidavet

--------------==

3111182

SECRET

---

## Page 34

3/13/78

1063-964-B

SECRET

6/30/71 Memo, DaaRE. Patt C/CI/REA to C/LI; RE: CIA

Da/s. Forded the M.C.

- States that CIA withheld no a from W.C.

some cafe. peeded by Agency to tran. smers case i unot

available to the publie.

- Stalls ext: proded by CIA are neurd a 5 gis to determin

A list if those seld unreld. (as of 7) is aval in CT/RE A (ide).

1073-944-L

IT set for CI Staff Her (el . , 113173).

Te Assass of Fler. Kennedy

-Desert Agencys contistion to investigation syhi.l., components

involved such as

WH" : J.C. Kng

Mex. Deck

Mex. Statton: Xu Sett

Recca: Chief of AT/RIA hacked up. dy/ Dobleg, hise. Hell , Paul

Hartmas

Le agencis coverage of Oswalds actutter a the aunt in Punis

late proved malade to the Hassia Come.

11348903

(N61.560)

3111183

2|25|10 Rupatch, US. MC. to Chief, NO MUSE/RSH ; RE Howarding

-of pestrality file Mom YN.l. on 2H0

*.

[See BULKYT

6vols.

1173-432-W

101.56 BALKY)

VI No 028-991-41

- Rankie to Helns

White fring ye are it.

SECRET

33.

---

## Page 35

3/1/18

#(31) 610-263

3/18/64 Men for. TR. Hacken A Suly.: Atele Allegag O was Siterewed

Repeats info in para 1: 0f.609.786.

states. for need that allegation carried in this pres report.

is uttaly unfounded as far as I is concerned.

Adtional detalls or pursect cy Wil.

d: Late → despatel na la para 2: 0609-786.

b. Article also in Humar ento

attachments.

314/64- Hunar weets

- Copy of 2108/64 artie in Math : SUs

..... ... . .....

3111184

..... .....

SECRET

---

## Page 36

SECRET

3/14/78

1188-1008

(01.5%)

918175 Mines, Paul Hatre He Chif, LI Steff.; RE: Migaters

of LHO'S Connecton w/Agry; Kep.: Memo of Coureration, Dea

Katter / Her. Mudgley i the DCI. Atted 9/1/75.

1. Mess stars 2 pts Need reque comments. It pt. coMe allegation.

mede shortly aftr asses s leer that ID Ird lee conscted Nagery.

The alleg. me tally anfouded."

2. Tuts se the matter are as fil te

D: 1/29/43, ustructed. ly. R.G, Arca te make attrough dick o/a lguey

it HIS to determise weether It Ned we been keed ity Ogeny a conted

Whit in day lury. Oded ne to make le, duetty i purraly to

degue possible s not. to accept stants of utersedanes. He is plaused le

reckerked Main siders found as record defind that which I ded

tained defer. pes itas integrated into records system stace

scas. Miting i Ass. nerd indicating ay dyery insect.

W40.

3111185

C. DLD - 1s word in His files. Mangements made for me to

check teleph W/ach ALA case in U3. Chef of hace sculed

thei sendes, spite witti offices I was the sweld y wee

D. Her haled W/ Durian A, SE Air. 3 LAS Div's lub. Ops Arap. (c06).

-SECHET

---

## Page 37

114/78

1188-1000

r. Toge. sumity. Reneuck Setton (5K5) of OS: 1. lad see. file checked-

no nord of. 0.

holdings - a reord

J. 12 my place the chief of I Staffe Admen Offlee called OP.

i seed, word tat tave was to red or unplome or applest for

unploy. named ltD.

r. Ucked Afice of Plal Sevrees - Me reard

i tourt leteon Staff - no red.

j. II steffe Operaternel Appeal troup (I/DA) - no record

k. Checks emplied n. 1214; sent sue meformal ste toRrea

speefyng chute made steting woult showed thet L10 lad never

had any cret. very Estually e stret.

to the effect wate

communested to H.1.

3111186

thei appropute stutions, I was ild, insite - neg

4. Kual Cres Hat D, Me an am retire fits IS5R, might have

SEGRET

---

## Page 38

SECRET

3/14/18

(3)

1188-1000

(cort.

"Having sine toy.

lage of lils. suiet I have perconally concused beat there is valed

reacon for ACts lack of interest in O at that tike. He would sully

dor tee contatted i ltufed ty DCD had the been to the HSSe

i set. to the US defore 195711958. I ravel t the S: Il. y Hederes,

petite are, Sere that tie is quit uncone to we ding.

for urine to. In these days, phan agen in @19562 by the

end of that Was there vere so sexy peror travelling to? from the

S.V. tet olD was weapable of talking to all of then therefore.

stiluted.

I light of the alore, it seems to see that O- if che

came. to DCD's attetein at all would have lovely teen typassed,

Лни le simply did not peers. the type of if. that DCD one

seeking at that tome DCA would suely have us the the: mar-

3111187

3. should he added that stove deceled search produced as nerd

or induation beat any other His. got. agesy das usa da is

a source M had cordered hex for mritiest

1: 21d pt. conne paper wail it HDS A O lefore the wesses

spefuelly, the wen 5 does. Need had been sent to Agency. lefre

assass - 2ву FBI, FBI, cy 3D SD / by UsMary. A 201 dele

The 201 file. intered no yerey signated words. He ASS.

ripting of monting of Is atures tedit yet be welded in it fle

Pertisent-Lables.from A.C. Wen dell At Mer. herch I HIS, whele data

dasem: to FBI uper scept Cales were.

---

## Page 39

SEGNET

3/11/78

1188-1000

(coast.)

iporated int file follurig ass. In made waid, to all concured,

well. W. C.

1. 1 put get ust we pet deling ustin life was.

duause is nare dad. to past mean before there

8. Fists ie wado we possed lefe nds as well as shal up of bes

computerized.

Chuf Judice

nerds sylter we esplaned to Naph Ha, mends.

of. Comm. i give of Comme staff meaters when they vested 195 is @ 3164.

201 file in O also shows them Her ... bettors were satrefied w/ records

system I marku is. Which us. Kept ou neerds.

916/15

Attacked

runs of concreation: AR.S 4.17.

"Ketter hey M. E. Cly, Aci.

3111188

- Dunk feet tet It had not estated is u-thave who worked a

the s. 4. 4 returned.

- Ketter poented met Helm's gitation He Mass Negations; I stated it.

was easy espeared that thes would be used that sull false

ag ts and CIA. to stated he ke of as indication

that I's agotatin me bruse i was wealeg mp: BAgewy.

which Helms wested to reman corcealed..

- *W/respect to 03 / appeasaue in tu rends L exp that CIA

night will have shild off fus, day uttweew w/ his if the the

ndiation of. pur FBI nterest. he fr the selity, I said the batte

ageny sunce Registei die not ndicate 14.0-Wis A Wad. source

Prograss w/the mil screeces from 1153 a

---

## Page 40

3/ 14/78

1183-1900

world prosely. wave indicted any nel debifig for intel, pupile,

out nose appear in thr files, so & blurd nose existed

Comment: Fire tera Attelude, I bellere Heres a chanci prozian well ndeati

No LIA crection a! the then that nited above. lould make contal

inue that To Rattle dre wai anyting wiied would cause the

slightet dict te the above meet defore de produces the programs a Nor

3111189

---

## Page 41

SECRET

ape of Securty tile - Dillian a. Moyan

ketey Holl

3/30/78

10/31/60 Memo, M.D. Stereo to Chief, Security Rereich Staff Subject

Ижемсак sefectrs

Refers to metal request for is se Am itzere defecting to U35R,

Red. Chick i otter Salete counties dising past is is other.

than BF Mitchell i Kn.H. Master 4 5 other defectors segardeng

whom 11.Otepta.of State Dept, already des isfo. lie Ris

Nebates, EE-18854; 2H0, M511164: Detero Ricecardelle, 115-8295;

V. Stoboda, N3-18565; 1 J. Rilkaney, 15-10724):

sumity files reflect sufict of etched mense aralitirel

Am. ata: who daw defected during past l8 mos.

surind of abose refersed to defectors have dees of interest t

CIA:

sevent hee Netthreep.

R.S. Lebate i Declolas Petrelli, EE 19439, were subja of 00/e

requests 0x5/29/59 6/15/59, with a brew to tree bes

doriped upon there retters from visits to Russia Huttler

was.aterreurd.dy.CIH, vitter defore or after Visits.

additial iso...( unrelated) se a relative of Petrillia

Wadime sta: cursestly of sterest b. Secusty in

ew. of his assignment (prior to 8/3/60 depution to 5.01.

Where. he chas coxtact w/it least Irepresentstive

of IA t was is porition to have learned idextities

of LIA personnel at EGIS lester 3111190

Кт. h. Тыдан.

Edwaid Heros

SECRET

---

## Page 42

Krasser (cont.)

DCD. Doriskents.

4 cost, we will indeavor to get a sure detailed descreption.

malled parcel port. I May led

Please return tered to Me Has at dive addises y It 62.

5. Predition form for taptic Material.

Added: Apil 50,1962.

Subject: Aitombile Trip tough abor courtres

sofitess i ategory: 4 artudgie of 40 sides wel.

Date of expresse: suminer 1961.

Uncepeation of phots, wher separated from the form, deugrated as

1) To officel use only: 2) lonfidential

Ды. # 3224213

Rescitin of Material: See attacked sleet

Allacked Sheet)

LA. - 29.005

Apiel 30,1962

Tests descuption. of film. cortured in each cettudge.

Lastidge It

1. Road to smolene.

3111192

2 .. Radar tower

3:5 Smolciate

Road marker 81 fussettes fion Wika, i 284 in from Hack

78. Along road to Muck

9-15. Mense (#10 shows Latest guide Settera (lai) in red blouse,

18-21 Warsaw

22:23 Comper Copus home near Hare EGRET

Road marker SO her. past harian tward Poznas

25-32.. Ruins in Potish uticu

---

## Page 43

Kramer (1018. )

33 Geck Poled Arder-just though Polish cite, Gech in othe side of refe

3440. hustian.countryude? Шенка

Lo CIA thapdes Reguster Lanenetal Steet

_ Date : Hack 13

Se Control # R. 106580.

10: 7 rack Zoung...

Tron: trap us legute, Office of Cented refuse

subjet: hetelligence Photography-attacked, plots. furreed in reposse

to referested request. (по першки).

Excred: / photos Marked: USSR WAC WAC Perce Merak N N 348.

Intravat Mide Settlers. Not Wake is beground.

sammer 196. affecal noe orly: (18,19,25).

HH-12546

CIA 8.40019

File:: HH-12546

3/5/64 Mino 70:00/ coxact Aúncor; Attr: Support Beauch;

thra 20/03:1 site Request for Nap on Joe Preten.

Reference 2/11/64 meno no. sequent for ufo. a Must

Mens requests that. Wes che checked for up on specue Strets

лнд i Puse, meludug workers it tok Radis Factory

Intousest guides, studento , ete

3111193

2/11/14 ems. he M.Heglen.L/SR/CI/Researlto.00/Lontact.DuuroR;

Ate: Suppht Breech, Shully Stoon; Hue: D0/0S.

_I he support. + operational researce presently seig conducted,

this office would applesale neving any oo repots for.

the period 1959 to preset dealing will.

---

## Page 44

3111194

Kraser (cont.).

8-Coat) Nock (GKKNIR) of the BsoR.

c. Suctife pisssalts, siturest personalities and otter pusonalities

wontined. ry tavelle to meick, esse.

9.. Process Sheet fr 00/C Collectiona Report # 2365...

Date Fwrd.: 3/9/62

By: M.S. Vallmy

Mine Film of sunshile Trip though the 3 Ul. in the lylong- Recengiad-

Morgorod-Kalian-Moreow-Imolenest- Merck -Bust nute

Intet: Mis Reta Nanas 5% Alide ld. sloang, lal.

Juld Rimacks: Much of film taker out of car urndow tu buy jumpy.

ay hour, proude some shots albig. the roadede which night

not stairse de wailable. Here a some undeatefied (rada?.

He Do che seen tlkuisnally...

10. 39162 Perctition Fors for Hapkic Mateual

Area: 1352/ Poland / Gech:

subject: sell of Lolled I min tove file on automsle tip though ISSe

Usufud: Confidestial

Is snu apt to make alditinal pote guptie material waldble? no.

Mey sees nane be revealed to Maphics Register, OCk, if requied? yes

Costairs detailed descruption of film.

L. # (Ulegeble)? E. 212,627.

11.: W7-63368

2268..

LANG

FROM SUPPORT (STETSON).

SUBTECT: 00-8-3224213 (LA, 29.005.)

REF: LEIBACHER/STETSON

TELECON. 05 3/17/64

SECRET 191100.

SECRET

---

## Page 45

Klanes (coxt.)

Il (Mont: I As indiated in refeiiced telecon, # 10, Cartedge II of.

subject sept the staired by graphics cause it shevs an

Istowist guide in teach, USSR. Aire of the unidentifued

men in this picture wars a shong semblance to the Henry seed.

SRI I came uses this puture and requested permission to

freed it, bozetter with 00 6: 3212967 (19-28641) and the stules!

eatities is. the FbI ind the Heven Commencion Afte chuking.

with you, we gave I staff permision to do 50 the undertarsing

in that the FBI. will go back to the sources for fusther saf. on thes

2: IT now has two quietions which we cannot ander for

recons available here: I. Date i Hace While plete was made available

do contact specialit; 2) It makly statement that Hese 2.

wore wrent contacted won or d

it me satement but would apprecate confirmation. Also,

12.

3111195

I thatle to nach Voleny: now atticed to Asses

_Records

show that she pastate saw dadis in Salong sly tie lefta thi

retex from USS) Sugget you call her for detals. But we are

sue tina did at see the ladies defre the hip and ustainly

not (dy us) dusing the trep...

---

## Page 46

SECREES

Keasnen (coat.)

12(c0xt.) 2. Tile carda indueate that Kranei i Namas were both debriefed

On 3/1162. Both wese nited to ie "very cospeiativre"

Bux 0.н 3/9/62 ur sext LA Report 28615.(Passpott ta oak), 28415(8m0X

movie ox 10a2) 4 28618. (trochured for suckiox)

DA. 3/13/62 Report 28641 (00-B oR Realities)

3/2/62 tire to. Kramer - Returing prssport s auactig studes.

3/21/62 = Return of fllme. dy Yira to Maman ty mae

4/30/42 - L1 Report: 29005 (4 cartredges of.40

35 mm sledes)

3. HDS routing slip Indueates 6MP stalg rettured stedes aseetly to

maner on 5/17/62 W/Iatresting comment, " Mret of the slides are

of the ueual tousiet muety and here are of little value.' of

Hhe 160. sleder. 5 were alcessconed"

Handwatter sotation: 3119 copy to SR/LI X7735 ftta

5C39 HQ

3111196

SECREM

45.

---

## Page 47

Kuby Half

435-173-A

12/12/63 Cover. BeaD, Robet. I. Kanpull, 605, Palls to

chif, sk Chef, We younding selored mem as

follows:

Mr. C.

Mc. H

1/25/63 TImo, FoRe B. lasacca to Halter P Hatgar;

1. REDWOOD ched it one time as OT in Oswald

..Aa. Wef of the l Braved it had dessed

-. sometime in suminer 1900... With the then Chef

r, Rep. Lef of the b Kelsued Section the laying

on of interewls) through KULTUHT i otte

sultable channels: It the moment, & dost

recall whether the was discused while Of

his farely were in route to ou country

o if it was after there arrival.

(cout. ta next page)

3111197

SEGRET

---

## Page 48

1/9/755

SECRETA

45-/13-A(coat) 2. Rencents O's sedure in USSR stuck me from sitest

I read read Ist ODACID dipated on blin, i I told my

subodisited somethiag amounting to.

'Don't plad too hard

to get the rips we ried, tause the individual looter odd.

Laterated in I O night provide a tick fattery, cutain

sections of utty italys if course the Wal I that nught telp.

delop target pereality desire"

3. I was phasiay into over, cover as ugnmeat, i out of

shortly aftle os arl. Dost now what action asseloped

Healter.

Eddeadum

4. Has incoming henacingly attusted in watching developing

pattern witsusied is b; the # of Sor. was marying orgas.

being permitted to leave USe, then duoreing! stting abroad

SCENA

By case was among ist f

wet see of these Women? KOB. WHiSk became interested

in the developing tend. Fadly out of anorty if O's wife would

rempay chin to ou country i party at of stued in D'3

experiences is USSR, that we showed opiatiest in the Haway story

T.B.C.

Mr. C.

3111198

SECREL

47:

---

## Page 49

3/11178

Betay Nbef

109-786

3/17 Memo for Chief, FRen

sugeet: Article allaging It wre uterrewed. by

CIA employees

1.2/22/64 Natters Va. Sue Article alleges that State

Rept. recoids show that O iled swuel mitgs. with

the CIA se. In the US Embery a Moreor. Breeny

tespersa.... One State Dept. cable. No. 234, dated

112/59, reports. that O Who batturewed by the CIA!

other untry officials

2. Allegation is completely unfounded as followe

a Article cites 5A."Cable" 110, 234, dated 11/2/59 -

must max 5.A. despatch No 234, dated 1/2/59

b. "Derpatch containe no statement or up

thet Recland E. Smyter, the Lad Seey: of the U.S.

has CIA innection... I's name is the oly neve

of a phase wes night have spoken w/o."

Only other U.5. official (cost- ta rest page).

3111199

BEGI

---

## Page 50

3/1|78

609-786 (coat.)

SEGE

mentioned in SA despatch was Edward X. Trees, who signed heap

appled for employ in 649 i submitted complete 7NS form.

Extere. on 1/8/79 at 65-9; ase. to Zesonnel file, was

algned. to OPLi stated to serve. I. Jokyp. (file drit

show de served there). Served is Herdelberg 3/50 watel

reughing eff. 9/26/50 to nevere preter N/ HII0S.

No futter laties in Israel pele.

LAugh Conmasoline

н микау ?

SR Division has woffcal file on chink, showing that. Halaon.

BRICKAM Me SR Air. Staff ep was is contact w/Shyder r.

1yr. (1956-57), whose he weed ie a spotter at Harvard Where S

was studying Ruwan had deced to othe students wto might

Я. доод. ts. USSR. No ucord of 70A, DA Or LSA action in that

connection In 3/59.1/pist.just before 5s depature for Th State

reg. de de guer 2 weeke of the DDS Course (pust ORRS ting i So.

Order of Battle ..

7X (201-175339)

Brief history.of. Ages.

d. Edward I. Freess was sever an impl. of

SiEn

CIA.

-Sump suce A41, serg in vasious countries:

- 1952, utile a "Peripteral Ucer" w/50 in one OT Ug beation

Marance in cher; clearance granted 1921, 1et diapped i

1955 i leman cancelled

- Sept. to Now. 1956 IO Aursion ofeceals ncontiet. Mt hen wease

If he SA portion → ID reg.; seid lavor dear flor 0s.

- 0S file entain falloung word of int. " Clearene antin retrea

4/57 - 5E/7P.

8/58 - 2/PP/20

11.62 - A7O-DDP.

4158 - 05]

8/59 - C/77/10

---

## Page 51

3/1/78

(609-986 1coat.).

3. Augual ntele citring subj. allegation written if Pit. S.

ALLEN E Paul SCOTT.

- Article as appeared in Human Events - we have meg he or publicer.

i ougnal founder.

- Have been sherpshosting at I Dulles where op. presented.

- DS. her. a detaled beg. recount of ALLED i a Copy of pet of

na westigative report on sett. - no derogatry if s ete.

3111201

---

## Page 52

2/8/18

Ketry Kislf

File: 00-8-3,212,967

21801)

subject: Realitis /Ictor Parade / enterogation sa Mack Followrag

Inclusive Dates: March 21, 1962

custodial lat. : DCD

The delations

Date of lafo: 9131-8/13/61

That: Rute la: 1852/4/31-5/214.

rafimation Kepset.

#89 OcR

Sousce: US Utyers; two wosee tourests.

Source, a college graduate, i an older companior, tused

the USS. for to weeks try ea

3111202

Dorment is i reges dong

Lesto 13 paragrafind deserting trip through Ruse i Detently

Aecckkes.excoustt.co

Kas stadeat". Peter to whot they

nina star, Ee siquet situaten dese

office in hotel in tick. Mentions that Istourist guide, selleria

(x), was asked to interpset: Howrests wee requeited to take tour

of such to settare as guide, dung wiled time the hotel

100m was searched. las was serered that sught.

Rescites search at Soriet-Polie Stdes, where they appeared to

he lesting for paper" i showed no intueet in felik

sid traveling companies was questioned f the too in here hotel.

SEG

---

## Page 53

Swine. as

614-261

Kramer - Koore Documents

1) 3/20164 Memo, ADP (Negleton) to Airector, FBI; RE: Phots of AltO

taken In Mack by Monica Kianes

wattached routing steet

also marked, "(SCI 3/780612"

2) Copy of Laformatin Report 1o. 00-8-3, 212,967 ; Bate: 3/21/62

3111203

---

## Page 54

3/14/18

Bitay Nolf

1187-436

915/75 Memo, Des. I. Klaus, Chef GI Staff to Exce Nest.

to the ALDO...; RE: LHO

1. LHO's 201 file was is pered undel the Make of Tue tery tsuld

I 1219160 as a Mault If dis "defection" to the 43S AL 10/31/59

poseble westy. into the U.S."

2. ule CARTeLao 2FET reports, dated 5/25/68 R4d 1/3/1, at teureure

Wren to retra to US. 1,5 of O's Alters acting for compliance

Cleo an O lette set to MC deputing dis underable declarge

Move does. probably unulated anong FBI, 3D, IS E DNI

M.C. E to S0V. Ent. tie in late Sept early Det. IS

surequesty, suel i He is 10/63 which a passed in to.

4. Several otter FBI reports dated I/63 re OS Acturttes 1e FPC.

s arsed in 10/63 which wire passed is to INs: "There are

---

## Page 55

3/30/18

1031-405

1004.400

Belay Kil

12/5/66 MFR; RE: Arenaa Defectors to the HISSK

Wattacked dig. info on i estracted fit F lept 146/159

article in back were, star

3/2/65 Memofo: Quector, FBI: RE: Marra Kastor; Passele

consection to suratigation y ANO 410..

a. Puerous creepaduce se Kenter induatte he reportedly was

in.

Mack for bloke during summer of 458 i dunng the perse

b/2 - 9/8/59.:

Mauna cried in Minck toward ind of august

1959

b. In ketcureus ba May 3:4.1961, cn Lopeckagen, Rexmack, with

an umpey of this Agedy. who was kour ts. Ketter as a reple:

sentatue o kneran Vitelegse, Laster clained to hate seen

sometting fan Addity in Mack sence he was the sly Arenan

reuding there at the time...

I. Both Kaster Dswald had sewed as wallsted men; takashal

in the uSme.

d. Recording to a repod from Retroit off ue (FI), dated 8/1464,

Kaktor w employed.

y H. of M. at Are Abe. as a decturer is

Shere lang. Ect in the His Illege of 251A. Kurdig to press

reports Mo is curseatly wilied In A Spellad Eagle ginge

3111205,

---

