# 180-10140-10054

## Page 1

180-10140-10054

UTILADDITIEU.

: ONLY

LU CONF 'ENTIAL

_ SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUB.LEGT: (Optional)

FROM:

ArR 2B 9 25 AM '78.

EXTENSION

Rodger S. Gabrielson

OLC/CER

NO.

OLC 78-1690/1

1133

DATE

27. April 1978

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Number each comment lo show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column ofter each comment.)

1.

Mr.

Shepanek

0/SA/DO/0

Tube:

Do - Green

Attached is a letter

2.

from the House Select

Committee on Assassinations

dated 26 April 1978. Please

3. DC/SE DeN

respond as soon as possible.

athe: Wannen 7rank

CodgeS,Latielon,

RodgerS. Gabrielson

S. CLEADIN

6.

Its 3:

Shave

7.

8

Prico but will

9.

10.

11.

12.

1 - 5:

I do not know if

there were any DDo

officersat

56-60

13

14.

15.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CLA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

FORM

3-62

610 USE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

# 23

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

26

UNCLASSIFIED

180-10140-10054

---

## Page 2

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

OAHAHE-UORSTER.N.C

SAMUELL

15, OHIO

DIGYANT DE

KINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES THONS, NEUR.

CHRISTOPHENI. SODD, CONA,

HAROLD 5. SAWYER, MICH-

FLOTON, FITHIAY, IND.

(202) 225-6621

Select Committee on Assassinations

El.S. House ol Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICÊ BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

April 26, 1978

OLG #78/690

Mr. Patrick Carpentier

Office of the Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

Dear Mr. Carpentier:

In connection with its investigation into the

circumstances surrounding the assassination of president

John F. Kennedy, the Select Committee on Assassinations

requests that the Central Intelligence Agency make avail-

able for interviews by our staff the Chiefs of Station and

Deputy Chiefs of Station in Moscow from 1959 to 1963; the

chief officers and deputy chief officers of the CIA base

Exom 1956 to 1960; and the Chiefs of the

Soviet Russia Division, Deputy Directorate for Plans, from

1956 to 1964; or provide their last known addresses

SO

that we can contact them.

Thank you for your continuing cooperation.

Sincerely,

8. Nobey Blaisy

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: I9]

---

