# 180-10143-10156

## Page 1

180-10143-10156

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

ASSANITILED.

1/13/48

BOX28

Folder 15

SumAtoof HSA Enteneu W/ Balmar Wienert Barres Hidab,

San Hardu pelet" santisch

10:009, m. - Charles Berk a na

Cnla quey 28, 1225 eing 7

the Inse Select Committee in

assopirations conducted a three

Aru interie at CIA Readqunte

go,

prided with a cry tele

CiA relena litle pour to th

beginning) the citerie. Uper

reven ith release litte

m.IHedal

timinadalgo stated the cóRative

1 not release M.lti-

suns a relen litte in the press.

although he had not seen the

replied that he might not

1 80-10143-101560

---

## Page 2

this intered slopin with

angme prin to their me

it the

Hdal

dismones. The unterse with

anyme otte than d

the CIA's

tacting him in ode to arrang

a time and a place for the inter-

Mr. Hidalgo stated that he

Mr. Hidalgo comed not respond

to the questio. The also incr

not pivide his curent address

at the time o.

assassinatin, de cas a CIA

his spicie responsibilites as e

---

## Page 3

cast office, M. idly respond

Le had no speifie reapmai-

bilities. Ratter, he said that h

was assigner to varias a

ampmento on a da

traveling at the die do

intelligene, nerdine dens

years 1963-1964 those

the world not be mas specie.

go declares

Rad been

In that apratin. He states the

---

## Page 4

fa aperitinalue in the Brigid

20504 lad subsequent mett

an uneppeter death resutting

мото рани и не облед

belf that the Crate, governmet

go stated stati

Oleand and Miami. Taver

he said this wat had little to

do with his Ber

volved the handling f a CIA

agent care Seria Curs).

Mr. Hidale

during his is cared thin

---

## Page 5

the inclicked interrogatin an

surreptitin entries respons

not anows a question if he

believes,

on his anous

wade threater the luis?

other a wored endange the

natinal security.

Then waded to define what mad

That if we thrught Expenna

pu a familia

to him. The suit stated

• AMMUG/ defected

Hem QUisto the CIA in Apil

1964. At thi time M. Pedalge

was sharin DIR 16369, 23 April 1964,

a CIA Cabli describery AMMUS/i's

---

## Page 6

слази, Gechnemakin. This

indicated that AMMUG/!

was tennole geable 8 cUIS

aper revery a celle,

Tredal

not sent to

To hung AMMUS/!

back to the United Stats, That

that was handled by started

[Swerom, Chie WH/SA)c1, Medalegos

immerete suzerin. M. Hadilgo

If he tread I Severani current

Percation. Mh. Hedalgo replied

the did but comes nat privile

This inform, ten its the HSCA stife.

M. Tidalgo co asked te

descut Mi. Sirens relatinship

woet. Ammus/ The responded that

tones later in the interred, this

Anted, t origine ta de Gene.

---

## Page 7

it comes he hat the and Mr. Scenan

the gustin.

M. Hedalgo to net ached

shit splaji informatin Ammus"

Pries the li encering te

y Oscald. Mr. Itedalg

replied that the could rathe

Met anace that question. Ma.

Medalgo cas then

waked yhe

tines carith M. Severan

had tape reender his deeriging

the cored have been standard

operating procedue in a Cabe q

this kind. Howeve, he said

that he could not recall wheth

he chad beatened to the above-

referenced tape recodings a had

read the tancript, the

debriefing session..

---

## Page 8

defection.

cable which describbag AMMUG/i'a

defection @00 disseminates

to CIA headquarter na

april

23, 1964. Mr. Sedalgo sae

chat in a tect tale

tranapnted to Washington, d.

C. during the last weeky

April 1964. Mr. Hedalgo stated

that he debrited AmmuG/Ink

residence in Washengen chiie

AmmuG won put liy the Cat.

M.Hidalgo@b.pointed.oet

that an o Novembe 2, 1904 he

amar a tried pentane

Mr. Ted lyo wad ached to

---

## Page 9

reparine 4

IN 68894, 24 apil

64. a CiA cabletom the

and his knowledge g the curs.

This cable identifica certain DE

cuis sficei (rejenes to pereapi

as Quercin beneral Intelligences,

Cuban

cir. Mr. Iedalgo stated that

he had revrewed the above-

referenced cable so

up it receipt at ciA head-

mation n the DEl officer

named and as pag

Wasta, He stater that he had me

---

## Page 10

bat that he cold nat preently

recall this iiformatin.

state thit AmMos! had brought

out CUIs doamento fum Cuba

upm his defection. M. tedal

sas acked fang q the cuis

document referied to a concuned

The reaponder tat le

ad not reviewed all the

documento but ta de dia

neurei did not refer to Lee

tin. Ake der indicate troes, ite

the suljet matte o itese document

may have been g intert

awaldo ase nith JFk assassina

tim. Mr. Medala

---

## Page 11

ira cut meeting entry

go de

Erfum that M. Jeen, had

witter the above-references

memo and that the men was

en accurate summar

not necessity have been in

traveles presence due to DE!

interest in all travells to Cuba.

The furthe added that a Dol offich

worled have receive all visa

---

## Page 12

was wall in Mexico be

applicant to undicate their

I When asked if AMMUGI dad

reported which Dol Office See Haro

rawald dealt worts

- in Mepiro

Co. Pines wrent ano.

anowa fhe hed been stitinies

in Mexico. Te dia state that

he had been in thefic print

nute done during nos dut

7 that year.

a David Phillip. He responder

,M. Didalgo presence in Medic

it lecause Mr. I teda

So neve

went men an American instillation

tet ages cente he is inten

---

## Page 13

Mexico

with the

on one occassin.

Mr. Medals

well as with Win Scott o

Davis Phillips. Mr. Her go said

Bishop's k.

Rate, he explained that he Knee

Mr. Bishop as that it peron

who worked at CiA Lead lanter.

M. an indicated the here

the same manne as Le trew

Mr. Bishop. Inveve, when Mr.

Nadia continues to questen re

Hidalgo abant Mr. Hunt, Mr. Fedaly

countered h

or aunt notice us

yulhanges

He declares that the IS A Nis

---

## Page 14

Ine M. Carsell bat

will not discuss him

said that he" sine do

(kurther ) but douce

In't want to dracos it."

He did state that he Lad had

indirect contact tita Silvia

Quran but doesn't recall

when the indirect cntact

cure de expen thet

Tact with the Mexican

Comunist Party This women

---

## Page 15

Mr. Hedalgo states

lse associate a Silvia Derans

It coss hi bely that the

did remenbe that the aget

Mestico Cite station Case offer

Rad a hair lip and spo

with a liop. When asked if

this pera was (Rabet Shaw,]

Hilalgo replied the it

might have been Mr. Shaw;?

3) Welliam Harvey - Mr. Hedalg

stated that he was ac

with Mr. Harve

stated that led tee

Timerame entat with

result

knew Mr. Varn as the

incat past operatione

---

## Page 16

Mr. Hidalgo cas net ached

lo iedasmine a

~ aMMUG/I CIA

trare

Mi. Itedalgo was quatines

14,1964. Mistedad

said thatche was not present

q the poly-

Davali uvas disrnases..

Ot wa)

polyraph sessin. Mi. THie

---

## Page 17

aloo stated that he belies

he given access to the poly-

grap set was a

do describe the infinalinked

lectin

To exemin a 5 May 1907, aked

cho wrote the memoranden

64, indicatins that tients- to

---

## Page 18

reelog taperended diebruging

seine tennes Donera

sie Capa

Dan byin nextpart undertheldueline

---

## Page 19

20s not Kind they wones

1912

---

## Page 20

(14)

auntie del at eates

Fakene by sinister

mitted to fut relates tha

he Kiss hat recall whett

---

## Page 21

sumisten

---

## Page 22

Case but the wong a

belep in his part.

Am the meet ander

went Policago We Gossi

te wip the agency

Rest

---

## Page 23

61,

---

## Page 24

118

asaigames.

T the dapie

wtretecagoco.nnopte@eten.com

Ffur wa aivomegwe

to t denle bat perzeas.

The ntevreo vascrlusos

at 1100p. mt i terg

---

## Page 25

was added wheth te

Was bet cling concent

• ... ............. ....

---

