# 180-10143-10104

## Page 1

180-10143-10104

G0U2450

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

FORET

Mexi 7023

М: 9/28 Zape would have seen Mased ky 10/1.

A. I. would know better.

Mexi 7024.

Hi can't recall if 9/24 conviation knows ty that tome

- YAN 7025 A.t..

Reprits calls of 1/1S ÷ 10/1.

MurL 4028 X. Scott

M: Docent mcall if they haw if /28 converate refore ther.

Mexi 7025

Last para

wet see fuked whetter a wee sane?

estably

exi 1034 1/23 Deles White ]

the not condied i that woly Sle fist repet or is wit to

Уехно 7033 (7933).

betails records of conversations -thes was after b3.

темазе кисл за н по. иля иек. герыиа

2:

Ran:

I :

This was because we adst leve info.

But wipes nowar

_structions were on the matorials

Doset haow of time sequese on noting; chit explace it.

I: Unusual if WHo worted Emb. 5 times that the wouldit have been

photigraphed.

10/413-10104

---

## Page 2

0002451

SECRET

track sameone. Vanty of support wick; chauffeued scott wound,; lad 33 yell

- uniatural te tip merations

- Cant que yull wars; somewhat compatinetsined

Takes in support arpect

There is a plots me LAD'S M.l. file need. Mon

I: to weany wusss w respect o the ladl.

X. Jestt wanted as to do throud job e we ded. Same w tS

Old a full, korest, tronan for

У:

not surprising thet this didat send photo- wesst important ensugh.

lich whewes that it a antonely unlicely what hiD had a peoplastial

innector w/ kostke cause of nature a contact

M.6..

Дан:

C. Howard Huat: no

Maunce Biskop: no

1Hо as nell agent?

It men, Here would have been a 201 pele.

10/11 cable gues A.201 #

I set wild love gottle ifs. parteularly die to this setteral dose

pueads) w/ Aagleton.

Doesn't know why 10110 table to MC would have gone t baresnesses.

Thinks it was hausual for that time period.

---

## Page 3

6002452

8: hounes let sett had no knowledge of mannies

have knows alss.

I he would

10/1 Lasscust : Note at to

"Prerousy transented"

i would mean that it was a spared

У :

солонини

town unvolvement: ms

: not I M.L.

isntersew coxcluded 12:10p.m.

....-. --...

---

