# 180-10147-10147

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/9/2018

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10147-10147

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 60-07-01

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: BLAKEY, G. ROBERT

TO : CUMMINS, DOUGLAS T.

TITLE:

DATE: 12/01/1977

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

WC, FILES

CIA, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: LETTER

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/05/1995

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Box 33

v9.1

---

## Page 2

Assassination Records Review Board

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10113-10364

RECORD SERIES : NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 003926

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM : BLAKEY, G. ROBERT

TO : CUMMINS, DOUGLAS

TITLE :

DATE

: 12/01/77

PAGES : 3

DOCUMENT TYPE : LETTER

SUBJECT (S) : NARS; WC FILES; CIA;

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 512

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/12/93

COMMENTS : Tabbed CIA 84-3. Box 84.

January 3, 1997

Status of Document:

Open in Full

After consultation with appropriate Federal agencies, the Review Board determined that

the attached record from the House Select Committee on Assassinations may now be

opened in full -- as referenced in the Federal Register notice for the Board's December 17, 1996 meeting.

---

## Page 3

Date :

07/30/95

Page

:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: HSCA

180-10113-10364

: NUMBERED FILES

003926

--

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE : 12/01/77

PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS: CIA

HSCA

BLAKEY, G. ROBERT

CUMMINS, DOUGLAS

WC FILES

NARS

DOCUMENT TYPE.: LETTER

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : OPEN IN FULL

CURRENT STATUS : OPEN

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/17/96

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Tabbed CIA 84-3. Box 84.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 4

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER. N.C.

SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART B. MC KINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES THONG, NEBR

CHRISTOPHER & bOOD, CONN

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT LOGANTAS

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.. House of Representatibes

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

December 1, 1977

003926

Mr. Douglas T. Cummins

Office of Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

Dear Mr. Cummins:

In connection with its investigation into the •

circumstances surrounding the death of President John F.

Kennedy, the Select Committee on Assassiantions requests

that it be granted access to the following Warren Commis-

sion documents, currently in the possession of the National*

Archives and withheld from release by the Central Intelli-

gence Agency:

1. Commission Document #347. Date: 1/31/64

Information developed by CIA on the activity of

Lee Harvey Oswald in Mexico City, 28 September-

3 October, 1963 with attached photograph of

Valery Vladimirovich Kostikov.

2. Commission Document #361 (pp.1-95) Date: 1/31/64

Appendix B--Folder entitled "Biographic Informa-

tion on Mrs. Oswald and her relatives".

Date: 2/5/64 (Cover letter from Thomas H.

Karamessines, Acting Deputy Director for Plans,

CIA)

3. Commission Document #384 Date: 2/19/64

Letter from Richard Helms, Deputy Director for

Plans, CIA, RE: information developed by CIA on

activity of Lee Harvey Oswald in Mexico City,

28 September to 3 October, 1963.

4. Commission Document #426 Date: 2/21/64

Letter from Richard Helms, Deputy Director for

Plans, CIA, with attached translations from the

Spanish of results of interrogations of Sylvia

Duran and her husband in Mexico City, 23-28 Novem-

ber, 1963.

€5.

---

## Page 5

Mr. Douglas T. Cummins

November 28, 1977

Page Two

5. Commission Document #698 Date: 3/31/64

Memorandum from Richard Helms, Deputy Director

for Plans, RE: "Reports on Activities and Travel

of Lee Harvey Oswald and Marina Nikolevna Oswald"

with attachments A, B, C, D, and E.

6. Commission Document #710 Date: 4/3/64

Memorandum from Richard Helms, Deputy Director

for Plans RE: Richard Thomas Gibson.

7. Commission Document #817 Date: 4/20/64

Memorandum from Richard Helms, Deputy Director

for Plans, RE: BND Report pertaining to Allega-

tions Concerning Anton Erdinger.

8. Commission Document #871 Date: 4/29/64

Memorandum from Richard Helms, Deputy Director

for Plans, CIA, RE: Photograph of Lee Harvey

Oswald and Attachments A (Group of persons

standing near Palace of Culture in Minsk) and B

(two pictures taken in Oswald apartment in Minsk

in 1962) •

9. Commission Document #902 Date: 5/6/64

Memorandum from Richard Helms, Deputy Director

for Plans, CIA, RE: Criteria for Dissemination

of Information to the Secret Service; Recommenda-

tions of CIA Relative to Presidential Protection.

10. Commission Document #935 Date: 5/15/64

Memorandum from Richard Helms, Deputy Director®

for Plans,

CIA, RE: Role of Cuban Intelligence

in Processing Visa Applicants; Reaction of that

Service to the Assassination of President Kennedy

with attached report entitled "Lee Harvey Oswald".

11. Commission Document #944 Date: 5/19/64

Memorandum from Richard Helms, Deputy Director

for Plans, CIA, RE: Hours of Work at Cuban and

Soviet Consulates; Procedures and Regulations

---

## Page 6

Mr. Douglas T. Cummins

November 28, 1977

Page Three

for Issuance of Cuban Visas; Mexican Control

of U. S. Citizens' Travel to

and from Cuba.

12. Commission Document #990 Date: 5/27/64

Memorandum from Richard Helms, Deputy Director

for Plans, CIA, RE: Discussion between Chairman

Khrushchev and

Mr. Drew Pearson Regarding Lee

Harvey Oswald.

13. Commission Document #1012 Date: 6/3/64

Memorandum from Richard Helms, Deputy Director

for Plans, CIA,

entitled "George and Jeanne

DeMohrenschildt".

14. Commission Document #1222 Date: 7/6/64

Memorandum from Richard Helms, Deputy Director

for Plans, CIA, entitled "Statements Reportedly

Made by George and Jeanne DeMohrenschildt Con-

cerning Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination

of President Kennedy".

15.

Commission Document #1479 (D) Date: 9/11/64

. -

Memorandum from Richard Helms, Deputy Director

for Plans, CIA, RE: Publication of Documents

Furnished to the Commission by CIA, with four

attachments. (D) Commission Document #1358 (Rev.)

16. Commission Document #1551 Date: 5/22/64

Memorandum May 22, 1964 from Helms to J. Lee

Rankin with attached report of conversations

between Cuban President and Cuban Ambassador.

Thank you for your prompt attention to this request.

Sincerely,

s. Nober Slalzy

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: jhj

---

