# 180-10142-10301

## Page 1

180-10142-10301]

SYLVIA DURAN'S PREVIOUS STATEMENTS RE LEE HARVEY OSWALD'S

VISIT TO THE CUBAN CONSULATE

IN MEXICO CITY

On November 23, 1963, one day after the assassina-

tion of President John F. Kennedy, the Central Intelligence

Agency's Mexico City Station suggested to Mexican officials

that they arrest Sylvia Tirado de Duran.

Mexi 7029 to

the Director, Nov. 23, 1963; Note to Luis Echevarria,

November 23, 1963) The

Mexico City Station asked that

Sylvia Tirado de Duran be held incommunicado until she told

the Mexican officials everything she knew about Lee Harvey

Oswald. The Mexican government arrested Sylvia Tirado de

Duran the same day. Captain Fernando Gutierrez Barrios,

Assistant Director of the Federal Security Police, interro-

gated her at 6:00 p.m. that evening. (CE 2121, p. 35)

A. Version of Interrogation Given to the Warren Commission

By The Mexican Government

Ms. Duran stated that she became secretary to the

Consul, Eusebio Azcue, three months prior to the assassina-

tion of President John

F. Kennedy, due to the death of

Maricarmen Olivari. (Ibid. p. 37) She stated that in late

September or early October of 1963. a North American by the

name of Lee Harvey Oswald appeared at the Cuban Consulate

and

applied for an

intransit visa to Russia by way of

Cuba. (Ibid. p. 39)

Duran stated that Oswald presented

Central Intelligence Agency

has no Objection to Release

Date: AS SANITIZED

7003

180-10142-10301

---

## Page 2

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 2.

presented evidence that he had been in Russia for three

years, that he was married to a Russian woman and also

that he was the leader of an organization in New Orleans

called "Fair Play for Cuba."

Sylvia Duran stated that

Oswald stressed that his visa application should be accepted

as he was a friend of the Cuban, Revolution. (Ibid. p. 39)

Sylvia Duran stated that there, in compliance with her

duties, she had Oswald fill out the appropriate application

(Ibid. p. 39). Oswald then left and returned in the after-

noon with the necessary photographs. (Ibid. p. 39) Ms.

Duran stated that at that time, exceeding her duties,

she telephoned the Russian Consulate because of her interest

in facilitating the handling of the Russian visa for

Lee Harvey Oswald. (Ibid. p. 39) The Russian Embassy told

Duran that there would be a delay of approximately four

months in processing the case, which annoyed Lee Harvey

Oswald since, according to his statements, he was in a

great hurry to obtain a visa to travel to Russia. He

insisted on his right to obtain a visa in view of his back-

ground and activities on behalf of the Cuban movement. (Ibid.

p. 39)

When Oswald understood that it was not possible

to give him a Cuban visa

without previously obtaining a

Russian visa, he became extremely angry. (Ibid. p. 39)

---

## Page 3

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page

3.

At this point Ms. Duran stated she called Consul Azcue,

who, at that time was in his private office accompanied

by his upcoming replacement Alfredo Mirabal. (Ibid. p. 40)

Mr. Azcue came out of his office and argued with Oswald

• in English. (Ibid. p. 40) Ms. Duran stated that Mr.

Azcue told Oswald that a person

'like him instead of aiding

the Cuban Revolution, did it harm. (Ibid., p. 40) Oswald

at that point stated that he had two reasons

for request-

ing his visa with such urgency: one, that his Mexican per-

mit expired soon; and two, that he needed to reach Russian

soon. (Ibid., p. 40) Sylvia Duran stated that in spite

of the argument she gave Oswald a pice of paper with her

name and Consulate business phone number (11-28-47) (Ibid.,

p. 40) Ms. Duran stated that she also initiated the handl-

ing of his visa application by sending it to the Cuban

Ministry of Foreign Relations, from which a reply was re-

cevied in the normal

manner some fifteen to thirty days

later approving the issuance of an intransit visá on

the condition that he previously obtain a Russian visa.

(Ibid. p. 40) Mrs. Duran stated that she does not recall

whether Oswald subsequently called her on the Consulate

phone number which

she had given him. (Ibia. p. 40) Sylvia

Duran stated that all the conversations that Eusebio Azcue

and she had with Oswald were in the English language since

---

## Page 4

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 4.

Oswald did not speak any Spanish. (Ibid. p. 40) Finally,

she stated that upon seeing Lee Harvey Oswald's photograph

in the newspapers, she immediately recognized and identi-

fied it

as being the same person that she

remember as Lee

Harvey Oswald. (Ibid. p. 40)

At the time of Sylvia

Duran's detainment her perti-

nent statements about Lee

Harvey Oswald were written by

the Mexican government and given to Mrs. Duran to read

and sign.

B. Original Signed Statement of Sylvia Duran Interrogation

By the Mexican Government

Upon learning about the assassination she and her

husband speculated that President Kennedy might have been

assassinated for racial reasons. When she became aware

that the assassin was Lee Harvey Oswald, she ascertained

that it was the same man that approximately two months •

prior had been to the Cuban Consulate to solicit an intran-

sit visa to Russia.

Having taken his name from the special

documentation he presented she knew that he was married to

a Russian woman and belonged to the "Fair Play for Cuba

Committee."

She checked the data in the Consulate archives

and became certain that it was the same individual who was

blonde, short, dressed unelegantly and whose face turned red

when agry. The Consul had denied the visa because to

---

## Page 5

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 5.

obtain an intransit visa from the Cuban government, it

was imperative that

he previously obtain a visa from the

Soviet Consulate.

Since obtaining a visa from the Soviets

took four

months and Oswald's Mexican visa expired soon

Oswald became excited and Duran had to call the Consul

who had an argument with him. The only aid she could give

Oswald was advising that he see the Soviet Consul, and

calling the person in charge of that office. The Soviet

official told her that they would have to consult Moscow

which would take four months. That afternoon, Oswald

re

turned to the Cuban Consulate and Sylvia Duran confirmed

that he could get a Cuban visa only after he received

Russian visa.

She gave Oswald her name and business phone

number but never gave him her address because she had no

reason to give it to him. She knew that phoning the Soviet

Consulate was not one of her duties and that if she did

so she did it only to help Oswald. She gave Oswald her

business phone number only because he would have to call

subsequently to check whether he had obtained a visa. He

never called back. (Blind Memo re Lee Harvey Oswald and

SylVia Duran, November 26, 1963, CIA #473) .

Sylvia Duran was released November 24, 1963 and

rearrested November 27, 1963, when the Mexican government

alleged that she was attempting to leave Mexico and travel

---

## Page 6

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 6.

to Havana. (Cable from Mexico City Station to Headquarters,

November 27, 1963, Mexi 7104, CIA #482; Cable from Mexico

City Station to Headquarters, November 27, 1963, Mexi 7101,

CIA #493).

The Mexican officials told Sylvia Duran that

they were detaining her to protect her. (HSCA Staff Inter-

view of Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78 p.--

JFK Document NO.

Subsequently about her second detainment, Duran stated,*

"They were very rough this time...they repeated the same

questions

but they were more, how do you say, evil. And

they.. wanted to know exactly what I have done in Cuba,

the people that I met there, everything. They were asking

me

questions about all the people that were working the

Embassy

and this time I wanted to go to the bathroom and

they wouldn't let me and it was longer, because it was

from 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. (HSCA Staff Interview of

Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78 p.

JFK Document NO.

According to the Mexican officials that detained Duran

a second time she remembered Oswald perfectly and denied

he wore glasses. Otherwise there was no addition to her

story. (Cable from Mexico City Station to Director,

December 12, 1963, Mexi 7364, CIA NO. 557-558).

C. House Select Committee on Assassinations Interview of

Sylvia Duran 6/6/78

Sylvia Tirado Bazan told the House Select Committee

on Assassinations staffers the following:

)

---

## Page 7

Sylvia

Duran Statements

Page 7.

Lee Harvey Oswald visited the Cuban Consulate

three times September 27, 1963, not twice as the Warren

Commission previously reported. (HSCA interview of Sylvia

Duran, 6/6/78, JEK DOC.

p.

Oswald first visited

the Cuban Consulate at approximately 11:00 a.m., requesting

an intransit visa to Cuba with Russia as the final destina-

tion. Oswald showed her some documents, then, left to

obtain photographs needed for his application. (HSCA inter-

view of Sylvia Dura, 6/6/78, JFK DOC. ps. 523-526)

He returned at approximately 1:00 p.m. with four

photographs. (HSCA interview of Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78, JFK

Document #

p. 526) Ms. Duran typed the application

in duplicate, stapled a picture on top of each and had

Oswald sign each in her presence. (HSCA interview of Sylvia

Duran, 6/6/78, JFK DoC. #

, p. 527-8) As proof Os-

wald showed her special documents he had brought: his Rus-

sian labor card, marriage certificate with the name of

his Russian wife, his American Communist Party membership

card and his "Fair Play for Cuba" membership card. (HSCA

interview of Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78, JFK DOC. #

p. 531)

Ms. Duran stated that she found lee Harvey Oswald's

behavior suspicious because normally a Communist traveled

only with his passport..

because belonging to the Communist

---

## Page 8

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 8.

Party was illegal in Mexico in 1963. (HSCA interview: Ibid

p. 533) There was a procedure whereby the American Com-

munist Party would arrange visa matters for their members

with the Cuban Communist Party. (Ibid. p.532-533) The

American would then come to Mexico, visit the Cuban Consulate

and receive his visa immediately. (Ibid., p.533) When

Duran asked Oswald why he did not have the American Com-

munist Party arrange his trip to Cuba he stated that he

did not have time. (Ibid., p. 532)

Duran explained to Oswald that he had to acquire

a Russian visa before he could receive a Cuban visa.

(Ibid., p.534) Duran jotted her name and business phone

number on a piece of paper and gave it to Oswald who

then left to get his Russian visa. (Ibid., p. 549, 534)

Oswald returned to the Cuban Consulate between

5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.M., which was after normal working

hours, 10:00 to 2:00 p.m. (Ibid., p. 543)

The guard

called her stating that someone who did not speak Spanish

was

at the gate inquiring about a visa. (Ibid., p.543-4)

As

routine procedure, she asked the guard to escort

the individual to her office. (Ibid. p.544) Oswald told

her that he had acquired a Russian visa. (Ibid., p. 544)

Since he did not produce it when asked she called the

Russian Consulate. (Ibid., p.545) The Consul told Duran

---

## Page 9

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 9.

that Oswald had been to the Consulate requesting a visa

and had been told that the reply would take approximately

four months. (Ibid., p.545) When she relayed the message

to Oswald he got very excited, insisting that as a per-

son who had been injail because of the Cuban Revolution

he should receive a visa. (Ibid, p. 546) Oswald stated

that he could not wait a long period of time because his

Mexican visa expired in three days. (Ibid., p. 546) At

this point Ms. Duran called the Consul, Eusibio Azcue,

who was in his office accompanied

by his upcoming replace-

ment, Alfredo Mirabal. (Ibid., p. 546) Azcue politely

explained the requisites for an intransit visa to Oswald.

(Ibid., p.. 546, 554) When he noticed that Oswald was a

stubborn man he told Oswald that he was obviously not a

friend of the Cuban Revolution, because if he was a friend

he would understand that Cuba had to be extremely careful

with the people it allowed in Cuba. (Ibid., p. 554) Azcue

and Oswald yelled at each other. (Ibid., p. 551) Then

Azue went to the door, opened it and asked Oswald to

leave. (Ibid., p. 554) Oswald did not revisit or tele-

phone the Consülate because if he had

she would have re-

membered it. The Consulate did not have many American

visitors who had been to Russia and had married a Russian

---

## Page 10

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 10.

woman visit their offices to get a visa and then get into

an argument with staff personnel.

HSCA INVESTIGATION OF SYLVIA DURAN'S ACCOUNT OF LEE HARVEY

OSWALD'S VISIT TO THE CUBAN CONSULATE IN MEXICO CITY

To investigate Sylvia Duran's account of Lee Har-

vey Oswald's visits to the Cuban Consulate the Committee

sought the cooperation of the Cuban Government. The Com-

mittee traveled to Cuba twice interviewing most of the

Cuban employees at the Cuban Consulate and Embasssy in

Mexico City in September 1963. (See Procedural Writeups

Cuba Trips 1 and 2) Only two individuals remembered Oswald,

Eusbio Azcue Lopez and Alfredo Mirabal Diaz. Only Eustbio

Azcue personally dealt with Lee Harvey Oswald. Afredo

Mirabal could only state that he never doubted that the

Lee Harvey Oswald who

visited the Consulate was the same

Lee Harvey Oswald shot by Jack Ruby in the basement of the

Dallas Police Department. that he caught only glimpses of

him.

(HSCA Interview of Alfredo Mirabal Diaz,

P.

also

For this reason, only Eusebio Azcue Lopez and Sylvia Tirado

Bazan's accounts will be

dealt with in detail.

---

## Page 11

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 11.

After interviewing Sylvia Duran and Eusebio Azcue

the Committee has found conflicting stories.

Ms. Duran

told the Committee that Lee Harvey Oswald visited the

Cuban Consulate on three occasions, all on September 27,

1963. (HSCA Interview of Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78, JFK DOCU-

ment NO.

, p. 523) This contradicts her statement

to the Mexican officials that Oswald had visited the Con-

sulate on two occasions, both on September 27, 1963. (See

section entitled Version of Interrogative Given to the

Warren Commission by Mexican Government. ( (Also, see sec-

tion entitled Original Signed Statement of Sylvia Duran

Interrogation by the Mexican Government.) Though neither

report quotes Tirado as stating that Oswald's visits were

on September 27, 1963, she states that they occurred on

the same day in late September or early October. (Ibid.)

When the House Select Committee on Assassinations checked

Oswald's visa application, the date September 27, 1963

was clearly markedon it. (See Oswald Visa application.)

Mr. Azcue remembered three visits to the Cuban Con-

sulate occurring on different dates. Mr. Azcue stated

that Oswald's first visit would have been "one or two days

prior to the date on the visa application at around 1:00

p.m." (HSCA Interview of Eusebio Azcue,

• JEK

---

## Page 12

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 12.

Document NO.

• p. 3) Mr. Azcue stated that Oswald

probably returned to the Consulate the following day

"at approximately the same time that he came on his first

visit" (Ibid., p. 4) with his photographs--"probably

that same day listed on the (visa)

application, the 27th

of September." '(Ibid., p. 3) Azcue stated that Oswald

left to get a Soviet visa and probably returned to the

Cuban Consulate one day after he had filled out the visa.

(Ibid., p. 6(Tape 2)) Mr. Azcue stated that it was then

that he had the argument with Oswald. (Ibid., p. 6 Tape 2)

Ms. Tirado stated that Oswald first visited the

Cuban Consulate at approximately 11:00 a.m. requesting

an intransit visa to Cuba with Russia

as the final destina-

tion.

Oswald showed her some documents and then left to

obtain photographs needed for his application. (House Se-

lect Committee on Assassinations Interview of Sylvia Duran,

6/6/78, JFK Document No.

, p. 20-23)

Consul Eusebio Azcue stated that Oswald's first

visit to the Cuban Consulate was "one or two days prior

to the date on the visa application at around 1:00 p.m.

(HSCA

Interview of Eusebio Azcue,

, JFK Document

NO.

•, p. 3)

Ms. Tirado stated that Oswald

returned at approxi-

---

## Page 13

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 13.

mately 1:00 p.m. with four photographs. (House Select Com-

mittee on Assassinations Interview of Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78,

JFK Document No.

, p. 23) Azcue stated that Lee Harvey

Oswald returned to the Cuban Consulate about 1:00 p.m.

with the photographs "probably that same day listed on the

visa application, the 27th of September." (HSCA Interview

with Eusebio Azcue, JFK Document No.

, p.3) This is

the Oswald visit Ms. Tirado had never mentioned before or

had mentioned but had never been reported before. (See

above.) Ms. Tirado stated that she typed Oswald's visa

application in duplicate, staped a picture on top of each

and had swald sign each in her presence. (House Select Com-

mittee on Assassinations Interview of Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78,

JEK Document NO.

, p. 24, 25) As proof Oswald showed

her special documents he had brought with him: his Russian

labor card, marriage certificate with name of Russian wife,

his American Communist Party membership card and his

"Fair Play for Cuba" membership card. (HSCA, Ibid., p. 28);

See also, C.E. p. 39; See also, Original Signed Statement

of Sylvia Duran Interrogation by the Mexican Government,

Blind Memo

re Lee Harvey Oswald and Sylvia Duran, Novem-.

ber 26, 1963, CIA #473).

"Ms. Tirado stated that she found Lee Harvey Oswald's

behavior suspicious because normally a Communist travelled

only with his passport because belonging to the Communist

---

## Page 14

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page

14.

Party was illegal in Mexico in 1963. (House Select Committee

on Assassinations Interview of Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78, JEK

Document NO.

p. 30) Consul Eusibio Azcue also stated

that he found LHO's behavior suspicious. (HSCA Interview

of Azcue,

Ms. Tirado stated that there was a procedure whereby the

JFK

Document #

American Communist Party would arrange visa matters for

<P. 5)

their members with the Cuban Communist Party. (Ibid., p. 29,

30) The American would then come to Mexico, visit the

Cuban Consulate and receive his visa immediately. (Ibid,

p. 30) When Duran asked Oswald why he did not have the

American Communist Party arrange his trip to Cuba he stated

that he did not have time. (Ibid., p. 29) Ms. Tirado

told the House Select Committee staffers that she had

stated this to the Mexican officials. They had a stenographer

present during the entire interrogation. (Ibid., p. 93)

The Mexican officials never passed the information to the

American authorities.

Ms. Tirado stated that she explained to Oswald that

he had to acquire a Russian visa before he could receive

a Cuban visa. (HSCA Interview of Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78,

JEK Document NO.

• p.

; Warren Commission Exhibit

2121, p. 39; Blind Memo re Lee Harvey Oswald and Sylvia

Duran, November 26, 1963, CIA #473) Duran jotted her

name and business phone number on a piece of paper, gave it

to Lee Harvey Oswald. (HSCA Interview of Sylvia Duran,

6/6/78, JFK Document NO. #

, p. 46; Warren Commission

---

## Page 15

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 15.

Exhibit 2121, p. 39; Blind Memo re Lee Harvey Oswald and

Sylvia Duran, November 26, 1963, CIA #473) who then left

to get his Russian visa. (HSCA Interview of Sylvia Duran,

6/6/78, JFK Document NO. #

• p. 31; HSCA Inter-

view of Eusebio Azcue,

, JFK Document No.

Tape 2 p. 6)

Ms. Tirado stated that Lee Harvey Oswald returned

to the Cuban Consulate late in the afternoon after working

hours which were between 10:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. (House

Select Committee on Assassinations Interview of Sylvia

Duran, 6/6/78, JFK Document No.

,p. 37) The Committee

has conflicting testimony concerning Lee Harvey Oswald's

third visit. Consul Eusebio Azcue stated that the third

Oswald

visit probably occurred one or two days after he

had filled out the visa application. (House Select Committee

on Assassinations Interview of Eusebio Azcue,

• JFK

Document No.

, Tape 2 p. 6)

Ms. Tirado stated that the guard routinely called

her saying that somewho who did not speak Spanish was at

the gate inquiring about a visa. (House Select Committee

on Assassinations Interview of Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78, JFK

Document No. pp. 37-38) Per routine procedure she asked

the guard to escort the individual to her office. libid.

p. 38) Oswald told her that he had acquired a Russian

---

## Page 16

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 16.

visa. (Ibid., p. 38) Since he did not produce it when

asked

she called

the Russian Consulate. (Ibid., p. 39)

The Mexican government's official report to the

Warren Commission stated that when Oswald came back with

the photographs, Ms. Duran exceeding her duties telephoned

the Russian Consulate because of her interest in facili-

tating the handling of the Russian visa for Lee Harvey

Oswald. (Warren Commission Exhibit 2121, P. 39) The re-

port given by the Mexican officials to the Central Intelli-

gence Agency after their initial interrogation stated that

Silvia

the only aid/Duran could give Oswald was advising that

o see the soviet consul and calling the person in charge

Bothat office. (Blind Memo re Lee Harvey Oswald and

Sylvia Duran, November 26, 1963, CIA #473)

Ms. Duran stated that she had been irked when

the Mexican government reported to the Warren Commission

that by calling the Russian Consulate she had exceeded

her duties. (Ibid., p. 91) Consul Eusibio Azcue stated

that if Ms. Tirado wanted to phone the Russian Consulate

she was authorized to do it. (House Select Committee on

Assassinations Interview of Eusebio Azcue,

, JFK

Document NO.

, Tape 2, P. 4) Ms. Tirado stated

that the Russian Consul told her that oswald had been to

the Consulate requesting a visa and had been told that the

reply would take approximately four months. (House Select

---

## Page 17

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 17.

Committee on Assassinations Interview of Sylvia Duran,

6/6/78, JFK Document No.

, p. 39; Warren Commission

Exhbit 2121, P. 39; Blind Memo re Lee Harvey Oswald and

Sylvia

Duran, November 26, 1963, CIA #473)

Ms. Tirado

stated that when she relayed the message to Lee Harvey

Oswald he got very excited, insisting that as a person

who had been in jail because of the Cuban Revolution he

should receive a Cuban visa. (House Select Committee on

Assassinations Interview of Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78, JFK

Document NO.

, p. 40); Warren Commission Exhibit

2121, P. 39) Ms. Tirado stated that Oswald said that he

could not wait a long period of time because his Mexican

visa expired in three days.. (House Select Committee on As-

sassinations Interview of Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78, JFK Docu-

ment NO.

, p. 40; Warren Commission Exhibit 2121,

p. 39) Ms. Tirado stated that at this point she called

Consul Eusebio Azcue, who was in his office accompanied

by his upcoming replacement Alfredo Mirabal. (Ibid.,

p. 39) Consul Eusebio Azcue does not recall that the se-

quence of events occurred in this manner. (See above.)

Ms. Tirado stated that Consul Eusebio Azcue politely ex-

plained the requisites for an intrasit visa to Oswald.

(House Select Committee on Assassinations Interview of

Sylvia Duran, 4/6/67, JFK Document NO.

, p. 39, 47)

---

## Page 18

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 18.

When Azcue noticed that Oswald was a stubborn man he told

Oswald that obviously he was

not a friend of the Cuban

Revolution, because if he was a

friend he would understand

that Cuba had to be extremely careful with the people it

allowed in Cuba. (Ibid., p. 47) Ms. Tirado stated that

Azcue and Oswald yelled at each other. (Ibid. 44) Azcue

then went to the door, opened it and asked Oswald to

leave. (Ibid. 47)

Ms. Tirado stated that Oswald did not revisit or

telephone the Consulate because if he had she would have

remembered it. She stated that the Consulate did not have

many American visitors who had been to Russia and had

married a Russian woman attempt to get a Cuban visa and

then get into an argument with staff personnel. (Ibid. p

51)

Lee Harvey Oswald's number of visits to the Cuban

Consulate on September 27, 1963 are not of major substan-

tive importance.

The importance lies in Lee Harvey Oswald's

visit to the Cuban Consulate after visiting hours. (10-2)

Ms. Duran told House Select Committe on Assassinations

staffers that Lee Harvey Oswald made his third visit to the

Consulate late afternoon around 5:00 p.m. (HSCA Interview

of Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78, JFK Document No. p. 543) In

1963, Central Intelligence Agency's Mexico City Station

---

## Page 19

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 19.

surveilled both the Cuban and Soviet Diplomatic compounds

electronically.

From the electric surveillance of the

Soviet Embassy the Central Intelligence Agency learned

of the following two conversations:

whets date →)

At approximately 4:05 p.m. Sylvia Dukan called

the Soviet Embassy. She told the person at the Embassy

that an American citizen seeking a visa was at the Cuban

Consulate. Sylvia explained that the American citizen

wanted to know the name of the official he had dealt with

at the Soviet Embassy. Sylvia had sent the American to

the Soviet Embassy stating that his acquiring a Cuban

visa was contingent on his previously acquiring a Soviet

visa. Sylvia explained to the Soviet official that the

American had stated that he was assured that there would

be no problem. At that point, the Soviet official put

another official on the phone, causing Sylvia to repeat

the story. The official then asked Sylvia to leave her

name and number to call her later. This conversation was

also in Spanish. (Classified Staff Summary of Review

of CIA Documents, 3/9/78, pp. 6-7; Cable from Mexico to

the Director, 11/23/63, MEXI 7025; CIA Transcript from

Russian Embassy, 9/27/63.)

At 4:26

p.m. an unidentified Soviet official

called Sylvia Duran inquiring whether the American citizen

had been to the Cuban consulate office. Sylvia responded

---

## Page 20

''''

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 20.

affirmatively,

stating that the American was at the office

at that time.

The Soviet official told Sylvia that when

the American visited the Soviet Consulate office he had

displayed papers from the Soviet Consulate in Washington.

He also had a letter stating that he was a member of an

organization that favored Cuba.. The American wanted to

go to the U.S.S.R. with his

Russian wife and remain there

a long time. The Soviet official had not received an

answer from Washington to the American's problem. The prob-

lem traditionally took four to five months to resolve be-

cause Washington had to secure authorization from the

U.S.S.R. The Soviet official added that the American's

wife could get a visa in Washington very quickly and she

could have it sent anywhere but that he felt that the Ameri-

can would not get a visa soon. Sylvia said that the Cuban

government could not give the American a visa because he

had neither friends in Cuba nor authorization (?) for a

visa from the U.S.S.R. The Soviet official added that

the Soviets could not give the American a letter of recom-

mendation because they did not know him. This conversa-

tion was also in the Spanish transcripts. (Classified

Staff Summary of Review of CIA Documents, 3/9/78, pp. 7-10;

Cable from Mexico City to the Director, 11/23/63, MEXI

7025; CIA Transcript from Russian Embassy, 9/27/78.)

---

## Page 21

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page

21.

These two phone calls were

summarized by Sylvia

Duran when she stated that she called the Russian Consu-

late who

said that Oswald had been told that the reply

from the Soviet Union would take approximately four months.

(See Version of interrogation given to the Warren Commis-

sion by Mexican Government; Original signed statement of

Sylvia Duran Interrogation by the Melican government; and

HSCA interview of Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78, JFK Document No.

Ms. Duran failed to mention that the Soviet official took

her number and called her back. The Committee attributes

Ms. Duran's neglect to mention the call from the unidenti-

fied Soviet-probably the Soviet Consul--to forgetfulness,

since she has consistently stated the substance of the

conversation. (Ibid.)

Mr. Azcue stated that he understood that the

Soviet Consul called him but "maybe a secretary called

the Soviet Consul and then the Soviet Consul called me,

that's possible. (HSCA interview of Eusebio Azcue, JFK

Document NO.

• Tape 2, P. 11) Mr. Azcue's statement

does not explain the Friday, September 27, 1963, 4:26 p.m.

call because it was Sylvia who spoke to the Soviet Consul.

(See September 27, 1963, 4:26 p.m. call.) Azcue states

that he spoke to the Soviet Consul. The Committee has ne-

ver seen a transcript of this phone call. One of four ex-

planations is possible: 1) The Soviet Consul called Azcue

---

## Page 22

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 24.

on the line. At first, the American spoke in Russian

and the Soviet spoke English. The conversation then pro

ceded in English until the Russian discontinued it, and

put another Soviet on the line.

The Soviet spoke in

English but the American, in broken Russian, asked him

to speak Russian. The conversation resumed in Russian

at that point. It also became incoherent and is thus

quoted in its entirety:

Russian: What else do you want?

American: I was just now at your Embassy and they

took my address.

Russian: I know that.

American:--speaks terrible, hardly recognizable

Russian. I did not know it then. I went to the

Cuban Embassy to ask them for my address, because

they have it.

Russian: Why don't you come again and leave your

address with us? it is not far from the Cuban

^ Embassy.

American: Well, I'll be there right away.

(Classified

Staff Summary of Review of CIA Docu-

ments, 3 P/78, pp. 10-12; CIA Transcript from Russian

Embassy, 9/28/63) -

---

## Page 23

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 25.

The Committee feels that there is a possibility

that the American Sylvia Duran put in contact with a So-

viet official on Saturday, September 28, 1963, was Lee

Harvey Oswald. The American citizen had previously visited

the Soviet Consulate and called from Sylvia Duran's of-

fice on a Saturday when the guard never allowed visitors

0, a0m..

into the Cuban compound.. (Ibid. p. 549)

The Committee feels that Sylvia may have lied

about an Oswald visit to the Cuban Consulate on Saturday,

September 28, 1963, for either of two reasons: 1) Ms.

Duran did not wish to disclose that Oswald had visited

the Cuban Consulate again after his argument with Consul

Eusebio Azoue and that she had decided to aid him; 2) Ms.

Duran may have had personal reasons. Elena Garro de Paz

reported

that she attended a "twist party at Ruben Duran's

house which Oswald, accompanied by two other American young

men, also attended." (See write-up.) Elena also reported

that Duran had an affair with Lee Harvey Oswald. (Ibid.)

The Committee attempted to locate Elena Garro de Paz who

might have shed some light into this area. (See Elena

write-up.) If Sylvia Duran did in fact have an affair

with Lee Harvey Oswald, he might have visited the Consulate

on Saturday and Sylvia would have denied it.

The Committee also feels that there is a possibility

that the man Sylvia put on the phone with the soviet offi

cial on September 28, 1963 was not Oswald. The man Duran

---

## Page 24

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page

26.

put on the line spoke broken Russian. George De Mohren-

schildt, Marina Oswald and George Bouke all stated that

Oswald spoke a very refined Russian and that he preferred

speaking Russian to English. (Note: String Cites:

Nonetheless, Ms. Duran lied to the Committee about

the guard not allowing visitors into the Cuban compound

on Saturdays as the electronic surveillance files for

September 28, 1963 illustrates.

When Eusebio Azcue and Sylvia Tirado were asked

to describe Lee Harvey Oswald, both gave similar discrip-

tions of him that are not even remotely close to Oswald's

physical appearance. Consul Azcue stated that the man

who visited the Consulate looking for a visa differed

from HSCA JFK Exhibit No.

as follows: his nose was

more aquiline; his eyelashes were straighter; his hair

was blonde; his height was between five feet six and five

feet seven; he was between 35 and 37 years of age; his

cheeks were sunken; and, he had a cold look in his eyes.

(House Select Committee on Assassinations Interview of

Eusebio Azcue,

, JEK Document NO.

Consul Eusebio Azcue further

stated that the man who

• Pp. 19-21)

came to the Cuban Consulate requesting an intransit visa

and the person that Jack Ruby assassinated at the Dallas

---

## Page 25

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 27.

police station--which he saw on television--were different

persons. (Ibid. p. 18)

Ms. Tirado stated that the person that visited

the Cuban Consulate

and the person she saw

Jack Ruby

as-

sassinate at the Dallas police station were the same per-

son. (HSCA Interview of Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78, JFK Document

NO.

• P.

\ Yet, when Ms. Tirado describes the

(alleged) Lee Harvey Oswald that visited the Cuban Consulate,

the man does not really bear any resemblance to Lee Harvey

Oswald. Ms. Tirado stated that Lee Harvey Oswald was

approximately five feet six, had blonde hair, weighed

about 125 pounds, had

small eyes, smaller fingers. than

Ed Lopez (HSCA staffer) and did not have very much hair.

(Ibid. p. 96)

Since neither description resembles Oswald the

Committee has determined that there is a possibility that

the man who visited the Cuban Consulate was not Lee Harvey

Oswald. It is difficult to justify the above since the

House Select Committee Handwriting

Panel has determined

that the signature on the visa application matches other

samples of Lee Harvey Oswald's signature. There is a pos-

sibility that a man who claimed that he was lee Harvey Oswald

picked up an application, took it to lee Harvey Oswald who

Filled it, attached pictures, signed it and then returned

to the Cuban Consulate once again

impersonating him. The

---

## Page 26

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 28.

Committee considers this a possibility because when the

Committee staffers asked Duran if she would ever have

allowed

a person to take the application out of the Con

sulate, fill it out,

attach a photo, sign them and then

return them to the Embassy she answered affirmatively.

(Ibia. p. 31) (Also no photos materialized.) The one

problem with this possibility is that Ms. Tirado stated

that she thinks Lee Harvey Oswald signed the visa application

in her presence. (Ibid. p. 33)

---

## Page 27

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page •29.

CIA Handling of Sylvia Duran Matter

President

When/John F. Kennedy was

assassinated on November

22, 1963, the United States

investigative agencies - FBI,

CIA, Secret Service, etc.--were asked to investigate the

assassination. When the Central Intelligence Agency learned

that Lee Harvey Oswald had visited Mexico City between

late September and early October they reviewed their

files and

found in the electronic surveillance files

phone calls to the Soviet Embassy made September 27th,

September 28th, and October lst. that could have been

made by Oswald. (See Electronic Surveillance Section.)

They also found phone calls between the Russian Consul

and Sylvia Duran where Oswald appeared to be discussed.

(See Soviet Electronic Surveillance Section.) In addition

they found a phone call made by Sylvia Duran to the

Soviet Consulate on September 28, 1978, where Sylvia Duran

stated that there was an American citizen at the Cuban

Consulate who had previously visited the Soviet Consulate,

and put a man on the line.

(See Soviet Electronic Surveil-

lance Section.) A final phone call where Oswald identified

himself was also

found. (See Soviet Electronic Surveillance

Section.)

---

## Page 28

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 30.

At this point the Central Intelligence Agency

determined that it would ask the Mexican Government-- .

whom it had a good relationship with--to arrest Sylvia

Duran because

she might shed some light on the circum-

stances surrounding the assassination.

Sylvia Duran was

also a Mexican

citizen and did not have diplomatic immunity.

The Central Intelligence Agency's Mexico City Station

sent a note to Luis Echevarria requesting that he arrest

Sylvia Sylvia Tirado de Duran immediately. The agency

stated that she was a Mexican citizen who had put Oswald

in touch with the Soviet Embassy. The agency gave Echevarria

a note with Duran's address, her mother's address,

her

brother's address, her license plate number, her home

phone number and her place of work. The Mexico City

Station also suggested that Duran be held incommunicado

until she could be questioned on the matter. (Note to Luis

Echevarria to arrest Sylvia Duran, November 23, 1963, CIA

No. 444; Cable re oswald-Duran, Mexi 7029, November 23,

1963, CIA No. 441; Anne Goodpasture Chronology, Wx 7241,

entry 36, November 23, 1963, CIA No. 635)

The request to luis Echevarria was not authorized

by the Central Intelligence Agency's Headquarters. When

they received the cable on November 23, 1963, Headquarters

---

## Page 29

180-10142-10301

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 31.

feared that the couvert surveillance operations might be

endangered. Jack Whitten stationed at Langley Headquarters,

telephoned Winston Scott, the Mexico Chief of Station

asking that Sylvia Duran not be arrested. Scott told Whit-

ten that it was too late, that he could not recall the

request and that Headquarters should already have received

a cable which stated that Luis Echevarria had already

been told to arrest Sylvia Duran, as a Mexican initiative.

(Note written by Chief of Station re phone call with

Jack Whitten, November 23, 1963; Chronology prepared by Anne

Goodpasture, WX 7241, entry 37. November 23, 1963, CIA

No. 635) Winston Scott then telephoned Luis Echevarria

and stated that the agency hoped that Sylvia Duran's ar-

rest would be kept absolutely secret, that all information

received from Duran got cabled to Washington immediately

through the Mexico City Station and that her arrest and

statements not spread to any leftist groups. (Chief of

Station phone call to Luis Echevarria, November 23, 1963,

CIA NO. 440; Flash Cable from Karamersinis to Mexico City

Station, November 23, 1963, DIR 84916, CIA No. 403; Chrono-

logy of Anne Goodpasture, entry 46, November 23, 1963, CIA

No.

636).

---

## Page 30

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page

32.

discovery

The Central Intelligence Agency feared/that Amer-

icans were behind the arrest of Sylvia Duran. It would

endanger their continuing convert surveillance operations.

For this reason the Mexico City Station requested the

Mexicans to arrest Sylvia Duran on their initiative.

Similar logic dictated when Headquarters asked the Mexico

City Station to request the Mexican authorities to

inter-

rogate Sylvia Duran to the extent necessary to clarify

the outstanding points raised in their fables the previous

forty-eight hours. Headquarters stated that the Mexico

City Station could provide questions to the Mexican

interrogators but that they wished no Americans to come

in contact with Duran. (Cable CIA Headquarters to Mexico

City Station, November 27, 1963, DIR 85318, CIA NO. 497;

chronology of Anne Goodpasture, November 27, 1963, entry

no. 121, CIA No. 653) When on November 27, 1963, the

Mexico City Station sent a photostatic copy of Sylvia Du-

ran's ten page signed statement to Headquarters (Cable

Mexico City Station to Headquarters, November 27, 1963,

Mexi 7105, CIA No. 479; Chronology of Anne Goodpasture,

November 27, 1963, entry no. 127, CIA No. 656) the follow-

ing day.

Headquarters sent a clarification cable to the

Mexico City Station. Headquarters wanted to insure that

neither Sylvia Duran

nor the Cubans got the impression

---

## Page 31

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page

33.

that the Americans were behind her rearrest. The cable

stated "We want the Mexican authorities to take the re-

sponsibility for the whole affair." (Cable from Headquarters

to the Mexico City Station, November 28, 1963, DIR 85371,

CIA No. 464; Chronology of Anne Goodpasture, November 28,

1963, WX7241, entry no. 141, CIA No. 658)

When the Central Intelligence began to deal with

the Warren Commission, Headquarters cabled the Mexico

City Station that their present plan in passing informa-

tion to the Warren Commission was to eliminate mention of

telephone taps in order to protect their continuing opera-

tions.

Headquarters stated that they would rely on Sylvia

Duran's statements and on the Consular files which the

Soviets gave the State Department. Headquarters stressed

that exact, detailed information from [ O/ Jand

≤ O1 ] Penetration agents in the Cuban Embassy) on just

what Sylvia Duran and other officials said about Oswald's

visits and his dealings would be valuable and usable

corroborative evidence. (CIA cable from Headquarters to

Mexico City Station, December 21, 1963, DIR 90466, CIA

No. 549; Chionology of Anne Goodpasture, December 21, 1963,

Entry No. 268, CIA No. 682) .

Prior to three Warren Commission staffersMessers.

willins, slawson and coloman guisit to Mexico city in

---

## Page 32

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 34.

April 1964 the Agency still felt that if an American con-

tacted Sylvia Duran their covert continuing operations

might be endangered. Headquarters cabled the Mexico City

Station that one of the touchy subjects that the staffers

would discuss was whether they should talk to Sylvia Duran

in Mexico at the Consulate. (Cable Headquarters to Mexico

City Station, April 8, 1964, DIR 13026, CIA No. 698)

Headquarters further cabled that the Warren Commission staf-

fers knew that the Central Intelligence Agency had tap

assets and that they might have guessed from the coverage

that they had photo points and a source in the Cuban Em-

bassy but that they did not know the details on the Agency's

arrangements with 24 J. Headquarters stressed

, that the Chief of Station should lend them all the needed

assistance with the minimum possible disclosure of assets

and techniques. (Ibid.)

At this point the House Select Committee on Assassi-

nations has determined that the Central Intelligence Agency

thought their continuing electronic surveillance operation

extremely sensitive and important:

The Warren Commission.

would have needed to disclose sensitive information to

contradict Sylvia Duran's story. The Central Intelligence

Agency had input into what could go in the Warren Report.

(See Chuck Berk Write-up.)

---

