{180-10444-10219)

a —— =— oe eo Oo @ @ © @ @ & TS

?

2c O43:

PERSONALITY TRAITS: / Howard Hunt praised Barker in his

: Spee 0 O)
Classification: _SECREE __- 4? 6°
ar
(This form is to be used for material extracted ly fl we ! j
from ClA—controlled documents.) Dy
BERNARD LEON BARKER r

BIOGRAPHIC DATA AND CHRONOLOGY. +

CRYPTONYM: Aucunrrer-1 ) :

PSEUDONYM: /Spencer 0. rerteting )

book, Give Us This Day, for his eagerness, efficiency

and complete dedication. "Overall his help was invaluable."
The individual ho first recruited Barker in Havana

lauded his enthisiasm and his "“puppy-dog loyalty" to his
case officers, but found he was inclined to indiscretion
because of a dforaies) to pro-Americanism. Another CIA

.N

officer, (David Morales) told Chris Hopkins in a 1972 tele-
phone conversation that Barker was a “loudmouth" ho
Morales}recommended terminating in 1962. { Morales/was
concerned that as a result of Barker's Watergate involve-
ment, he would "tell the authorities everything he knows."
Indeed, Barker tended to broadcast his affiliation with
the CIA to the members of the Cuban exile community. and:::
anyone else who might have been interested. This was
tolerable prior to the Bay of Pigs when his assignment

as liaison between the FRD and the CIA was overt. However,
post Bay of Pigs CIA activities in the Miami area . - :
required a more covert approach. Barker was:) :

told to strengthen his cover as prize fight manager and
use "cut-outs" in his attempts to gather information
about the activities of the exile groups. Gradually,

he was to cease all direct contact with the exiles. For
a man who had a "lovevof the game", and an even greater
affinity for the more overt techniques of investigation j

and interview, it became increasingly difficult to find

a niche in Miami CIA activities. By the time he was
terminated from CIA employemnt in 1966, he had been
involved less and less with gathering information on

Cuban exile activities, and had spent the greater part

of his time debriefing recent refugees:from Cuba.

He never seemed to adapt to the more covert requirements
of his job nor was he ever able to establish the collective
exile community perception that he was no longer affiliated
with the Agency.

Classification:

=_ “A “A

| Classified by derivation: ___

lol4d-loQl?



CHRONOLOGY:

March 17, 1917

1936-1938

1940-1941
1942-1950

July 29, 1947

1950-1951

1951-1951
1951-1955

at
1953

200192

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

BERNARD LEON BARKER

oa

ue

Classification:

- mother, who is mentioned elsewhere as

_—7 —~- <= —- — — — — —

Classification: __SECRET___ @

Born: in Havana, Cuba. Parents:

Father - Name unknown. Born 1/2/98 in
Columbia, Tenn.

Sanders, W.S. - Farmingdale, NY listed
as Barker's other parent, presumably hi

Mrs. John English of New York.

Attended Farmingdale: High School, Farm-
ingdale, New York.

Attended the University of Havana.

wa SS SM WR WZ

Served in the United States Army Corps.
Attained rank of Captain. Flew sorties
over Germany until he was shot down
and taken. as a prisoner of war.

Service identification card. Valid
until 7/28/49. Occupation listed as

Barker is issued an American Foreign
importer. (

in Havana. Hunt says he took the job

at the request of the CIA. During this
time he cooperated with Jim Spears,

FBI representative at the American Embass
in Havana. He also assisted Treasury
Department officials in breaking a
drug-smuggling ring. Received a commen:
tion for performance of duty for escortin
Mrs. Truman on a visit to Cuba. '

Sergeant in the Cuban Police ca

Owner of farm in Pinar del Rio Province
Remington Rand Corporation

(Job unknown)

Dr. Mario Lazo assisting Barker with i

citizenship problem. Compiled file for
Barker.

| Classified by derivation: ____.

y 4 rane a LT LT MT LT TF .



ys
S
4
p
4

s
6
6
4
6
6
6

BARKER

Classification:

cad — — — — —_ — — —

SECRET

i)

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

November 25, 1953

1955-1958

1959

(No date)

April 2

April 14

2700105

me)

August:

September

October

is

Classification:

Travelled to United States, entered
at New York City. Sought legal as-
sistance from Edward Bennett Williams

in Washington. f

Marianao Municipal government
(Job unknown)

Dr. Mario Lazo told Barker his "service
were needed to fight Communism.

ays the: agency assigned|
to him. Other names also noted:

POA requested b for the
use‘of Barker as informant in ‘Havana. |

Personal associates listed as:
Dr. Mario Lazo, atty, Havana
Dr. Miguel Alvarez Miari, Pro-
fessor, University of Havana

Also noted in one instance that Barker’

recruitment ontgsnaily handled by
POA granted. j

Barker's activities in Havana for the
CIA not identified, other than they
“organized a group to infiltrate the
Cuban government", according to Barker. f

Message sent from Marcos Diaz Lanz to
Frank Fiorini, asking his help in escaping
from Cuba.

Reichardt requesting information regarding
Sanjenis, who was fired from the no. 2 spot
in the Cuban DIER and now expected to arri
in Miami.

Pedro Diaz Lanz file routed to Hunt.

| Classified by derivation: —___

Fl cre rr ore ee



BARKER

1960

January 15

January 18

April
May

2800196

s
p
f
p
é
6p
6
(
p
J
¢

' Classification:

'BECRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted f

from ClA—controlled

October-November’ i:

November 15 to 25

documents.)

Marcos Diaz Lanz in odntact witht

and Reichardt. Known as “Bernie.” Rei

to identify himself to Marcos(as David 9)
reports "close and apparently un-

SI e relationship with people like

Frank Fiorini," despite warnings that he

talks too much.

Barker travel from Havan4to Caracas,
activities unknown.

a as Barker's
channe © headquarters.

Evaduated to the United States by Air
Attache transport plane. Evacuation
completely covert. Later said he used

Cuban passport..as documentation at
urging 0: that it would not
effect citizenship.

(No documentation in file to eae

ate use of Cuban passport or that Bark
was ever issued one.)

In another instance, Barker said he left
Cuba too quickly to obtain any documen~
tation.

Met in U.S. by Bernie Reichardt.

Obtained Spec. stays from INS.
Turned over t who remaine:
his case officér until May.

Shortly after Barker's arrival, Reicha:

requests assignment of Barker to PUSHES,

Classification:

as his assistant.

Indications that Barker became Frank §
Bender's representative in Miami at
this time.

as an independent contract agent in
political operations. Joe Piccolo's
name noted as cae officer. Barker to

POA requested for use of Barker in ee |

|. Classified by derivation:

wy .



Classification: _SECRET_

&

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
BARKER, 1960

maintain continuity of contact with
Varona's group, et al.

May Mar. i das case officer
for| Salary $300
per month. "Will act in capacity of
local representative of cover group
working with numerous contacts ...

i under direction of Senior Case officer
; Project(JMARC

(No date) kA Meeting between, Barker, Varona, and
d "Douglas." Varona complaining that
Barker "spoiling" Artime; also objects
to Barkers attitude of treating all
FRD leaders alike since it makes it
difficult for Varona to take lead.

a SS SR |]

that he might be utilized at one of
the training camps, but believe Barker

_September Barker "restless." Proposed to cae |
best use is as assistant to Hunt.

November $5000 from "private" source passed to
Diaz Lanz to repair B-25. Frank Fiorini

listed as one of Diaz Lanz' pilots.
(Note: Hunt had requested that amount from
CIA headquarters for Diaz Lanz.)

November ‘Barker talked with Sanjenis who accuse
(fnu) Goudie of sabotaging the militar
effort’ and putting loyalty to Justo
Carillo above FRD interests.

December ine impressed with Pedro Diaz Lanz'
Sincerity. Proposes propaganda tour thru
Latin America.
1961 §
January Barker's wife, Clara Elena, obtaining

POA for use as translator with her hus~
band. Case officer named - Joe Flecoiff
Hunt investigating report from Customs
that Frank Fiorini told them in December
ae i 1960 that $2800 furnished by the CIA
2000107 Classification: f

| Classified by derivation: ___



é from ClA—controlled
é BARKER, 1961

p ie

: May 1961

é June 1961

a July

6 July 17

g 2000183 Classification:
a mL LT MT

* Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

SECRET

documents.)

was paid to Customs to retrieve the
B-25 confiscated earlier from Diaz
Lanz. Piorini mentioned the CIA
agent involved as "Barker." Also said
Pedro Diaz Lanz preparing for goodwill
tour.

Hunt's investigation disclosed that th
$2800. came from a personal loan to Pedro
Diaz Lanz by Saralegui. Barker said
he met Fiorini on only one occasion
with a group of people, and did not
see him before or since.

(From Pedro Diaz Lanz file)

=_ “. “RR

Barker reporting on meetings in New
York City of CRC leaders.

_ GTA

Barker contacts Hunt as "last resort"

to straighten citizenship status.

Barker no longer case officered, but
inistratively by

formerly Hunt's administrativ
Barker travels to Washington to see i
Hunt; work on citizenship problem.

Hunt introduces Barker to his next =<
case officer, £ oe

Barker reporting re: Brigade prisoners
sent to negotiate ransom. (Reinaldo
Pico one of the two in the ten-man
negotiating group who refused to retur!
to Cuba as promised. His defection
from the group caused some animosity
from other eixles. Originally cleared
for Approval in September 1960. Reporter
to Barker (onJGCE!in’1963 and JURE in
1964.) In ‘1969 reported to be working
in Venezuela for Minister of the Inte:
ior, where Luis Posada employed.)

assistant.

fed well and morale is high, but they
are bitter toward the United States.
Barker reported to have had difficultie

Barker reports that the prisoners are f

| Classified by derivation:



— = = ce —~ — rd ccc ad

S
F
Q
p
p
p
p
p
6
6p
p
p

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
BARKER, 1961

August 4

August 17

September 21 is

October of

October 21
1962

January 17

March 16

March 18-28

April

August

August-December

2NG0159

Classification:

Tee ew eT

SECRET

Cuban exile who are venting their
wrath about the Bay of Pigs fiasco
to Barker.

ena Hunt confer with the Genera
Counsel, CIA, about Barker's citizensh
Barker's contract extended. Pay = $400/m

Hunt requests $500 per month retroacti
to November 1, 1960 for Barker.

_ = = aes

Barker meets with Jose Miro Cardona at
Miro's request. Miro yearns for "good
old days with Bender and Hamilton."
Miro's friendly attitude toward Barker
deemed suspicious.

” Qverflight over Cuba with Bill Johnson,
Robert Swanner, Frank Fiorini and Al:
Rorke as participants.

Parole expired.

INS has file on Barker as of this date.
Reports nothing derogatory.

Travelled to Caracas, Venezuela, osten'
bly for fight of Doug Vaillant, prize
fighter who Barker manages, but went
to apply for immigrant visa to U.S.

Contract extended one year, over signa
ture of William Harvey.

Regular progress reports for Barker's
activities begin.

Contacted Aldo Vera Serafin.

Investigating Alpha: 667:-Contacting:-
Santiago Alvarez, Jr.

,

_ GG GA “:. EE.

| Classified by derivation: ___

"4



3 ad — — — —7

October

November

November il

December

1963

January

February

April

20001ka

é |
4
f
6
4
4
6
6
4
6
6
p

BARKER, 1962

Classification:

(This form is to be
from ClA—controlled

Classification:

SECRET

used for material extracted
documents.)

Investigating Orlando Bosch and Alpha
66. Gave verbal report regarding Veci

_ ~—.

First report with Fiorini as source.
Fiorini source of reports almost every
month from this point on.

Investigating Rorke's activities through
leads from Frank Fiorini.

Very tense month. Return of Brigade s
prisoners. Orange Bowl speech by Kenner
Kennedy's statements accepted in general
by exile community, according to Barker
report, except'with right reactionary
elements knwon as the "Palm Beach crow
who are developing a plan of attack
against administration policy.

Barker told not to associate with Varona
and must deal with exiles through cut-
outs.

Barker reports re: operations by Rorke
and Fiorini; rift in Brigade 2506 caused
by Enrique Llaca.

Report from Carlos Hernandez that he
was invited to join a new Brigade orgari
zation,

Barker also reports on operations by
Rorke from information given by Bill
Johnson and Frank Fiorini.

Barker takes a "Cover" trip to Puerto
Rico, involving two weeks vacation and
a prize fight. Met Bernard Reichardt
who was surprised to learn Barker's

citizenship problem had not been taken

care of.
Barker reports on the arrest of aio
Duque in Rorke's boat, VIOLYN III, fro
information given by Fiorini.

| Classified by derivation:



a — —7- Cdl — — Fadl —

: Classification:

g (This form is to be
from ClA—controlled

BARKER, 1963

4

6 May 24

p we

g wa

p May 24

6 June

Fune
Classification:
2000126

SECRET

used for material extracted
documents.)

Barker reports Fiorini to participate
in air strike over Cuba with Diaz Lanz
brothers; a tempest is created in Miam:
over the withdrawal of monetary..support
for. Jose Miro Cardona and the CRC.

Barker planned to use the good offices
of Manuel "Cuco" de Leon or Luis Somoz
to see Manuel Artime in Nicaragua.

(Miguel de Leon Rojas was interviewed by the
FBI on May 25, 1964, in connection with the
investigation into allegations that Quentin
Pino Machado was to have rescued Oswald after
the assassination and arranged for his trans-
port to Cuba. Miguel de Leon was named as a
source of this information. Miguel de Leon

is a former Congressman from Cuba, living in
Coral Gables at the time of his FBI interview.
He told the FBI that he heard the story at

the hamne of Sixto Mesa, although he could

not remember who had related the episode. He
said he was aware of the fact that Machado,
during 1959, had been appointed by Fidel casi

as Cuban Ambassador to Nicaragua, that he
sequently was declared persona non grata, and
that he had served in Mexico ona Cuban assign-
ment to investigate activities directed agains’
the Castro regime.)

Marcos Diaz Lanz trying to patch up differ.
ences between Fiorini and Pedro Diaz Lanz.

Barker reports Frank Fiorini informati
to the effect that Fiotini received tw
phone calls from General Clare Chenaul
in California, regarding participation
in anti-Castro activities. Chenault
suggested the exiles contact the Chine:
nationalists to request aid.
Barker also reported on the Diaz Lanz
brothers. He also reported that Pedro
Martinez Fraga, an officer in the CRC,
would provide him with information on
that group.

Marcos invites Fiorini to join raid agains’

Cuba on 6/15.

| Classified by derivation: ___



yp BRBRBAA A AB A B SB BSB SB

Classification:

SECRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted §

from ClA—controlled
BARKER, 1963

July

July

August 22

August 21

by Hunt's administrative assistant,
: ane oS

August

September 12 f

September 24

documents.)

Fiorini regarding the Diaz Lanz bro-

Barker reports on information from 6
thers' raid.

to drop anti~-U.S., anti-CIA and anti-Artime!
leaflets over Cuba. Fiorini to act as co-
pilot and unidentified person was assigned
task of making press release from Mexico f

Fiorini, Marcos, and Pedro involved in eo |

City.
Pedro Diaz Lanz intercepted on his way to
Weir Williams ranch in preparation for raid.
Raid rescheduled.

Barker contract extended one year. f

Hunt requests reimbursement for $500 not
previously claimed. Given t

able to’keep the Station informed on
Diaz Lanz activities in time to thwart
plans. Also turned up possible lead
toward penetration Julio Lobo activities
Reported on creation of the JGCE, with
Reinaldo Pico as Secretary of Labor.

The report by Barker lists all the
group's officers with red underlining
the names of Felipe Rivero Diaz, former
Brigade member, and Pico.

With the cooperation of Fiorini, af

Johnson! informs Barker on plans for
strike against Cuba using napalm bombs.

Coubi to Bernard Barker, British Embas
Moscow, USSR.
Coubi reutrn address is Apt. 3208 West

Cancellation date on letter from ae |

_ Chicago, Ill, Photo attached dated 8/

orcoi2? Classification:

"It seems ages since we last met, and
a matter of fact it is, but I hope you
won't have to read this twice to find
out where it came from." f

Marina Tower, 300 North State St., |

| Classified by derivation:



_— —~ dl — — — ead senate atm dl

6
p
6
6
:
6
§
p
p
§
p
4

Classification: __sEcrer

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

BARKER, 1963

September

November: 3
November 5

November 14

November 25

November 14

November—December

Barker receives information(eron
Pico)regarding the JGCE and Paulino
Sierra.

Jack Griffin said to have been working
with Bosch this month, making two
strikes over Cuba.

oe

Pedro Diaz Lanz makes a speech criticizing
President Kennedy.

oN

Pico is approached by Ray who is seeking
unification of JURE with Sierra's group.

Barker reports regarding persistent
rumors that Ray produced the defection
of Carlos Franqui, a Cuban who fled to
France and reportedly received $200,000
to $300,000, This considered to be
consistent with an alleged plot of a
deal worked out between the United
States and the USSR to overthrow Castro
and establish a Tito-type government
acceptable to both super poowers.

—_ GR.

Barker's name appears on CIS censorship
list. Barker under investigation as a
possible CIS agent. His mail will be
intercepted and he will be under sur-
veillance.

Mrs. Eusebio Mujal had been approached
by a U.S. agency with a request that

she send her relative, Regino Boti, a
member of Castro's cabinet, a memo offer:
ing him the provisional Presidency of 6

Barker receives information that

Cuba if he would act against Cuba.

(Geico) reporting to Barker re: JURE.

1964 f

February Barker's contract extended one year.
[Johnson] arranging support aspects for

ancoi23 Classification: §

| Classified by derivation:



mr — — —- — —7 — Fadl —

Classification: BEonea

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.) ‘

,

BARKER, 1964

strikes against Cuba by Bosch of the
MIRR, who is‘planning a strike over
Havana. The plane to be used was pur-
chased in Arizona.

(Pico) reports he. was asked to join JURE]

_ U.S US

May 126 , Barker is polygraphed in connection
fa with the investigation of possible CIS
ties. Nothing derogatory found.
i Shows he still feels great. affection
fa for Tony Varona. He knows the followin:

CIA personnel by true name:

Art Avignone, Howar:
CO
July 20 - August 21 Barker in New York City receiving basi
tradecraft training at the request of
Desmond Fitzgerald.
August 7 State Department reaches the decision f

that Barker lost his U.S. citizenship,
must wait five years then apply for
naturalization. f

POA granted.

October 1 Notation in Pedro Diaz Lanz file(by. Droler:/
“Bender never met Lanz."

November 24 Reported by INS that Barker file has
either been lost or misplaced.

tuaiz November 18 Marcos Diaz ‘Lanz reportedly engaged in
ams smuggling operation using alias "Pedro
Garcia." Marcos a member of Minuteman in
Florida. Made anti-Johnson statements that
is Johnson elected "they", meaning the
Minuemen, would have to make armed revolt.

December Richard Zaragosi tells Barker he would
assassinate Castro 12/20/64. ee |

reportedly affiliated with Rolando
Masferrer and the anti-Duvalier Haitia

ance429 Classification: f
, | Classified by derivation:

y BAA BA BBW SBA BE



scene nn — sme nan acon — IF

‘Classification: _srcrer

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
BARKER, 1965

1965
February Contract extended one year.

Receives information regarding a raid
by the MIRR from Fiorini and Johnson.

Receives information tegarding the
ransacking of Varona's house. $

Barker reportedly has theory that Cast:
using the bolita racket to fund agents
in the U.S. CO expresses concern that
Barker may becoming too involved with
underworld elements.

April Barker recieved 4 threatening phone call:
from an individual identifying himself
as "Jerry Walker."

Pico also recently received threatenin
phone calls.

1966

January Barker reportedly has a large number $
contacts in the community. He is now
used primarily as a refugee debreifer.
Some of Barker's contacts are (suspecte
underworld characters.

April Barker's contract to be extended thru
7/31/66 and terminated 7/31/66.

July 31 Terminal bonus $1500.

NN

August 8 Barker to move to Chicago to work with
Rauland Corporation, a subsidiary of
Zenith Radio Corp.

1972
(No date) Gavia uorates) talking about Barker

ays Barker with tell authorities ever’
thing he knows.

=_ =

1974 Memo in DCD - instructions not to talk t
eee - Barker if contacted.
Classification:
206.0139

fe te ee

| Classified by derivation:

4 a BWARBWABAABRRBRABRBSBBE!,



i ——V—  ———-——— TT

Classification: ___ SECRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

BARKER, 1976

_ VT

1976 Barker sent a letter to the agency
3/31/76 for which Chris Hopkins does a
name trace on 3 individuals, presumably
mentioned in Barker's letter:

Father Jose Leonardo Vazquez
Father O'Farrill
Marcos Diaz Lanz

1977 ; Marita Lorenz alleges that Pedro Diaz Lanz |
: and Frank Sturgis were involved in the
A Kennedy assassination.

—_ “GT

= UE. ESE SB SSB Si BR GFZ.

2060413, Classification:

| Classified by derivation: _____

p
4
4
6
4
6
g
4
4
p
4
4

