# 180-10140-10072

## Page 1

180-10140-10072

MAME DRAT-EATE DURSE, CALP.

CHRISTO TEN 1. 0000, C014

• FLOTO I FITHIAN, INO.

ROBEAT W. LOCAT, PA.

STEWART I.1 :+1146T, COMM

CHARLES TNER "HEAR.

9. 0Д1 :99, МіС.

(202) 225-4524

Select onmitlee oi. assassinations

E.S. Mouse of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

ViASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

March 2, 1978

Boxb

FIO

#26

Mr. Patrick Carpentier

Office of the Legislative Counsel

Central. Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

Dear Mr. Carpentier:

In connection with its investigation into the circumstances

surrounding the death of President Kennedy, the Select Committee

on Assassinations requests access to all files and index refer-

ences pertaining to the following individuals:

N.R

1) MAURICE BISHOP, aka JOHN BISHOP, JIM BISHOP, and ENU

FIRGAULT.

This name is most likely an alias and

this

individual's true name is not known to the Committee.

Bishop was working in anti-Castro operations in the

early 1960s.

He was also allegedly involved in a plot

to assassinate Fidel Castro in Chile in 1971 with An-.

tonio Veciana and Luis Posada.

2)

WIROGUE - CIA agent involved in the ZRRIFLE program.

Further identifying information on the following individuals

will be given orally, pursuant to an agreement between Bob Genzman

of our staff and Roger Gabrielson of your staff.

Pet.

3)

GEORGE BREEN - 7 afar

4)

- F05

Ret 5) WILLIAM V. BROE - Mass.

[RUCij6) JIM DELANEY...

Ret 7)

JERRY FOX ' - 7la

8)

- Backed

Re?.

Resa, 10)

CHESTER ITO

ELWOOD D. (Pete) MARTIN md..- Are adti...

140-10072

---

## Page 2

ok

Mr. Patrick Carpontier

March 2, 1978

Page 2

Ret.

.1.)

3 Mar.

12)

FREDERICK RANDALI, - PIAG

13) JACK RANDALI, Md..

#:++0-688620-2341

14) KAN TAKAI

?

15) DORIS WATANABE

26) LARRY NASANAHE

HA: 17) JEM WOODS

-NE

10x6920

=1909-Mon. 27 Me."

—Rit. 19). PETE WHEELER MIS MUST

Ret 201

SHIZUO XAMADA M.

Whether or not any of the individuals listed below had

any relationship with the CIA, they may believe that actions

they have taken were at the direction of responsible persons

in the Central Intelligence Agency. Accordingly, in order for

the Select Committee to obtain truthful statements and ulti-

mately testimony from these individuals, it would be most use-

ful for the Committee to have a letter from your office re-

leasing these persons of any obligations of secrecy they may

have made to the CIA, or to anyone whom these individuals may

believe was affiliated with the CIA.

Ret - Anne Goodpasture - Tem. - Predi

" Robert hillin

• Robert Shaw .

-Robert Zanbernardi] +D messes - Interrewed in Mers city

Ret. Allen White antiewed

Ricard Helms

Tit dames Angelton?

Ret. Raymond Rocca

Ret E. Howard Hunt

i. Thomas Karamessines -re - mut 1 lor

Ramon-Joseph Alvarez Durant

Rst Jack Whitten VENNA MEE

deposed

Ro Charlotte Bustos Tin. intervowed Apred

---

## Page 3

ir. Patrick C. -pentier

March 2, 1978

Page 3

Pet - Joseph Burkholder Smith - 710. ?

*à: Rudy Bruno

=36 interbrewe.

ÑR Dan Vogel Pen ve gel

Ret Arthur. Dooley

NK Wesley J. Leibeler

NR Howard P. Willins

MP.W. David Slawson

?William Coleman;

• Samuel Stern

NiGeorge Frederick Munro

1r 14

Messe city

muel ses! Ret.?

raffloryan Randolph Karty

NOliver N. Primack

Finally, this letter serves as written confirmation of

an oral request by staff researcher Dan Hardway for:

1)

originals of any existing surveillance production

and logs or any operations directed at the soviet

Cuban Embassies for the period of 9/26/63 to

to 10/3/63, in Mexico City.

2) Any 201 files pertaining to FNU

Nunez Portuondo.

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerely,

S. Notes Blaha

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: jhd

---

