# 180-10142-10052

## Page 1

180-10142-10052

JFK RECORDS

v09-16-96ccr

CrOss Reference: None

Status in System:

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10142-10052

RECORD SERIES : CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Other Agency Equity: None

------

as as us as on so a

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM : CIA

TO

TITLE :

DATE : 00/00/00

PAGES: 114

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

SUBJECT (S) : 1 ; OSWALD, LEE, 201 FILE;

OSWALD, LEE, RUSSIAN PERIOD;

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN PART

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/07/95

COMMENTS : Box 11

Date in: 01/26/96

TTFFFF

F F

FE

FFFFFF

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

12/03181

---

## Page 2

CIA HAS NO DEJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS

REDACTED

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA controlled documents.)

Вок 22

In 1964, the CIA advised the Warren Commission that

the Agency never had a relationship of any kind with Lee

Harvey Oswald. Testifying before the Commission, John

A. McCone, who was then Director of Central Intelligence,

indicated that Oswald "was not an agent, employee, or

informant of the Central Intelligence Agency. The Agency

never contacted him, interviewed him, talked with him, or

solicited any reports or information from him, or communicated

with him directly or in any other manner...Oswald was never

assosiatea or connected directly or indirectly in any way

whatsoever with the Agency." _/ McCone's testimony was

corroborated by Richard M. Helms, then the Agency's

Deputy Director for Plans and therefore the person directly

all CIA

responsible

for clandestine operations. _/ Once these

assurances had bean received, / the record reflects no

THIS COPY IS NOL

Classification:.

FOR MELEASE a

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 3

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

further efforts by the warren Commission to investigate

this matter.

The Committee sought to resolve the issue of Oswald's

alleged association with the CIA by conducting an inquiry

that went beyond the threshold level of obtaining statements

from two of the Agency's most senior officials. Instaad,

more analytical investigative approach was utilized.

First, an effort was made to identify circumstances either

in Oswald's life or in the manner in which his case was

thad

handled by the CIA whieh were potentially suggestive of an

intelligence association, of some kind

Then, an intensive

that

• file review was undertaken which included both

the CIA's

Apartintal

144-volume Oswald file and hundreds of others from the CIA,

as well

as the FBI, State Department, and the Department of

Defense.

/ Based upon these file reviews, a series of

Classification:

porises

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 4

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

interviews, depositions, and exécutive session hearings were

conducted with both Agency and non-Agency witnesses. The

contacts with present and former CIA personnel covered a

broad range of individuals, including staff and division

chiefs, clandestine case officers, area desk officers,

research analysts, secretaries) and clerical assistants.

In total, more than 125 persons, including at least 50

present and former CIA employees, were questioned

regarding this issue.

The results of this

investigation confirmed

the

Warren Commission testimony give

i byerse

saNS. McCone and

Helms. There was no indication in Oswald's CIA file

stegestive i any ay that he had ever had any contact with

the Agency. Moreover, the Agency employees who would have

been

in a position to know, if Oswald had been associated

with the CIA

,"CrassifYcallon: that he had been an agent

Classified by derivation:

PAST

---

## Page 5

et ensleyes condeed to domite

Each of the pest no tate deal ye an el nes

ran his secree outh by the call indofor an

question relwant to the Committee's

legislative mandate were concened.

---

## Page 6

Edad

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

or connected with the CIA in any other capacity.

Finally, taken in their entirety, the items of circumstantial

evidence that the Committee had selected for investigation

as possibly indicative of an intelligence association did

not support the allegation that Oswald had an intelligence

agency relationship,of

gone

placed in

context

This finding, however, must be

for

fied, because the

same institutional characteristics

in terms of the Agency's

strict

extreme

compartmentalization and the complexity of its

enormot filing system that are designed to precit

penetration by foreign powers have the simultaneous effect

of making Congressional inquiry tet difficult

For example,

CIA personnel testified to the Committee that a review of

wauses

Agency files will not always indicate whether an individual

was affiliated with the Agency in any respect.

Nor was

there always an independent means of verifying that all

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 7

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

materials requested from the Agency were, in fact, provided.

Accordingly, any finding whiek is essentially negative in

naturel such as that Lee Harvey Oswald was neither associated

with the CIA in any way, nor ever even in contact with that

stuttal facenalu to possibilite

-Oferror

i cannel be enginee

To the extent possible, however, the Committee's

investigation was designed to overcome the Agency's

Recurity arented

institutional obstacles that potentially impede effective

external scrutiny of the CIA. The vast majority of CIA

files made available to the Committee were reviewed in

unnedacied

ungaritized form.

These files were evaluated both for their

substantive content and for any potential procedural

editing on

irregularities suggestive of possible tampering.

After

review, the files were used as the basis for examination

and cross-examination of present and former Agency

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 8

101500

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

employees.

were

Because of the number of Agency personnel who

ale highly probable that any significant

inconsistencies between the files and the witnesses'

responses would have been established.

Got intert

from back of A.3

Classification:

Classified by derivation:.

---

## Page 9

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE

CIA Personnel in the Soviet Russia Division

In addition to obtaining testimony from former

directors John#. McCone and Richard M. Helms, the

Committee interviewed in

viduals who were chiefs of the

CIA's Soviet Russia division during 1959-1963. * These

individuals categorically denied that Oswald had ever

been associated in any capacity with the CIA.

To investigate this matter further,

the persons who

the Committee interricure

had been chiefs andfor deputy chiefs during 1959-62 of the

three units within the Soviet Russia division Which were

responsible respectively for clandestine activities,

sepember 45,

*The chiefs) of the Soviet Russia division from August 1962

to September

1963 was not interviewed by the Committee.

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

7

---

## Page 10

Abuniis...

Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

?

American legal travelers?

and; research in support of

clandestine activities.*

The heads of the clandestine.

activity section stated ,during this period the CIA had

wefy few operatives in the Soviet Union and that Oswald

was not one of them.

Moreover, they stated that because of

his obvious instability, Oswald would never have met the

Agency's standards for use in the field.

The heads of the

for

**For th unit, that was respondible for American legal

travelore

only the years 1959-61 were covered.

However,

since every American legal traveler who was involved in this

program was recruited before fais trip to the Soviet Union,

the relavant year fcr Lee Harvey Oswald was 1959 because that

is when he departed from the United States.

*one officer acknowledges the remote possibility that an

individual coula ba run by someone as part of a "vest pocket"

operation without other Agency officials knowing about ith but

even this possibility, as it applies to Oswald, was negated by

the statement of the deputy chief of the Soviet Russia

clandestine activities section who commented that in 1963 he was

involved in a review of every clandestine operation ever run

in the Soviet Union, and that Oswald was not involved in

any of these cases thin

The American Legal Traveless wait used Crefly

American citizen traveling in the soviet Maion to assess

Classification:

potential see of sowint disish they led men

intelligence

• United Gasilied by derivation:

melipe at

---

## Page 11

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

section which dought the

cooperation of

louise dinis

_wilities

Soviet Russia division's American Legal Traveler program,

which utitized Americans traveling ill the soviet Unior

as a means.of obtaining information-and-identifying

possible subjects-for recruitment,' informed the Committee

then program

that they met with each person involved in ₴i-aotivE*

and that Oswald was not one of them. These Agency officials

collegiate

also advised the Committee that only "clean-cut"

college

colleginni a

graduates, were used in this program, and that Oswald did

on

not meet this criteria.

Finally, the Agency officers in

charge of the Soviet Russia division's research section

in support of clandestine activities indicated that, had

Oswald been contacted by the Agency, their section would

Irano wer

probably have been informed, but that this in faot, never

eccurred:

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 12

HANCON

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

Z CIA Personnel

The Committee investigated the allegation of former

CIA employee

who testified in executive

designated nis

session that shortly after the assassination of President

Kennedy he was advised by fellow employees at

the CIA S

tear

that soe Harvey Oswald was a CIA agent who

Perrad

had received financial disbursements under an assigned

cryptonym.

explained that he had been employed

phet

• by the CIA as a finance officer from 1957 until his resignation

frombe Agency in 1966. In this capacity, he served as a

fiscal account assistant on the support staff atl

(from June of 1960 tö June 1964.

that in addition to his regular responsibilities, he had

send security duty on his off-hours in order to supplement

his income. This additional job put him in contact with

Classification:

Classified by derivetion:

---

## Page 13

LECTIONTO

Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

other employees of

who would come by the

Epart

office and engage in informal conversations regarding.

politios 76

workin

told the committee that

the day after President

Wilies leg

Kennedy's assassination De was informed by a CIA case

officer that bee Harvey Oswald was avEFA agent.

further testified that he was told that Oswald had been

* (see sue)

assigned a cryptonym and that

himself had

unknowingly disbursed payments for Oswald

that cryptanya. Although L

-projactusing

protect

was unable to identify the

specific case officers who had initially informed him of

Oswald's Agency relationship, he named several employees

with whom he believed he had subsequently

discussed the allegations.

advised the Committee that after learning

Classificarion:

Clossified by derivation:

---

## Page 14

Place at

" if frage:

CiA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

FELEASE OF THIS DOCUMEMS

*

cryptonym is a

code designation for an Agency project, program

or activity or an organization, agency,

or individual

(for whom

a legal signature is not required) having

a sensitive operational relationship with the Agency.

Cryptonyms are used in communications only to the

extent to protect sensitive information from dis-

closure to unauthorized persons.

They will be used

(1) when disclosure of the true identity of persons,

organizations, or activities would be detrimental

to the interest of the U.S. Government or to the

persons, organizations, or activities concerned

(2) to prevent disclosure of a sensitive operational

relationship with the Agency.

---

## Page 15

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

TOL EASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

renace

the alleged Oswald connection to the CIA, he had

never

rechecked

disbursement records for

evidence of the Oswald project. He explained that this was

because at that time he viewed the information as mere shop

talk and gave it little credence. Neither did he report

the allegations to any formal investigative bodies, fattowg

the aggassiatron as

he considered the information to be hearsay.

In an attempt to investigate

allegations,

concerning. Lee Harvey awald'esolationship with the GIA

Committee interviewed several present and former CIA

employees who were selected on the basis of the position each

had held with

the Gra during the years 1954-1964.

Among

those persons interviewed were individuals whose responsibilities

covered a broad spectrum of areas withi

during this period, including the chief and deputy chief of

Clossification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 16

RELEASE OF WIS M

use chide to

Osinahat

'specte

eé.í.

here:

stee fist free it In shed.

wide.

---

## Page 17

as restated

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

station as well as officers. in finance, registry, the Soviet

Branch and counterintelligence.

The Committools

investigation refuted

allegation.

During the course of their employment in

none of these individuals interviewed had ever seen

any documents or heard any information indicating that Lee.

Harvey Oswald was a fit agent. -

This allegation was not.

known to anyone until the timerot publication of Warren

commission crittoal literature-and-the-Camison-investigation

in the late 1960's.

/ Some of the individuals, including

the chief of counterintelligence within the Soviet Russia

Branch

) expressed the belief that it was possible

Sormel

that bee"falvey Oswald had been recruited by the RGB

during his military tour of duty in Japan, as the CIA's

had identified a KGB program aimed at recruiting

Classification:

Classilied by derivation:

3

---

## Page 18

Classification:

12961

as intacter

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA -controlled documents.)

U.S. military personnel in Tokyo during the period

that

Oswald was stationed there. An intelligence analyst whom

had specifically named as having been involved

Fallowing the assessimationg in a conversation farading

the Oswald GlA agent allegation told the Committee that he

was not in

flat that time. A review of this.

individual's Office of Personnel file confirmed that, in

fact, he had been transferred from

Ito the

United States in 1962.

The chief

from 1961-1965 stated

that, had oswald been used by the Agency within iS a Joker station's

jurisdiction, Cheff certainly would have known about it.

1: Similarly, almost all those persons interviewed who worked

in the Soviet Russia branch

indicated that

they would have known if tee Harvey Oswald had, in fact,

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 19

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

As ridacted

by te

been recruited ad a CIA agent when he was in Japan.

These persons expressed the opinion that had Oswald been

recruited without their knowledge, it would have been a rare

exception contrary to the working policy and guidelines of

as i comin

smell tet

Lee Hervey Oswald's CIA File

belgalian

os an indioidod.

The CIA has long acknowledged that, prior to the

"Hole about oswold!

President's assassination,.it had a personality file on

that is, a file that container

gatorment

tee llaxvey Oswald, This file, which in Agency terminology

?

is referred to as a 201 file, was opened on December 9, 1960.

The Agency has explained to the Comnittee that 201 files are

opened when a person is considered to be of potential

1. intelligence or counterintelligence significance.

The

opening of such a file is designed to serve the purpose of

bringing all of the CIA's information pertaining to that

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 20

duplicat

pay.

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

as redaderl

been recruited as a CIA agent when he was in Japan.

These persons expressed the opinion that had

Oswald been

recruited without their knowledge, it would have been a rare

exception contrary to the working policy and guidelines of

Lee Harvey Oswald's CIA File

The CIA has long acknowledged that, prior to the

President's assassination, it had a personality file on

Lee Harvey Oswald. This file, which in Agency terminology

is referred to as a 201 file, was opened on December 9, 1960.

The Agency has explained to the Committee that 201 files are

opened when a person is considered to be of potential

intelligence or counterintelligence significance. The

opening of such a file is designed to serve the purpose of.

bringing all of the CIA

consolidating Certan

Classification:

s) information pertaining to that

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 21

Classification: -

CIA HAS NO COUT

DECLASSIFC.

FEESE Or is form is to be used for material extracted.

from ClA- controlled documents.)

Tenzor fil miles ty

individual into one centralized, records

system belenging

to the Deputy Directorate for Operations, that component

of th

Ayerey responsible for clandestine activities.

The existence of a 201 file does not necessarily

connote any actual relationship or contact with the CIA.

For example, the Oswald file was purportedly opened

because he was considered to be a potential counterintelligence

threat. Oswald's file contained absolutely no indication that

he had ever had any relationship with the CIA. Nevertheless,

because the Committee was aware of at least one instance

(in an unrelated case) where an Agency officer had apparently

contemplated the use of faked files with forged documents,

special attention was given to procedural questions that were

occasioned by this file review.

Classification:

Clossified by derivation:

---

## Page 22

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

Why was Oswald's 201 file opened on December 9. 1960,

more than a year after his attempt to defect to the

Soviet Union?

A confidential State Department telegram dated

October 31, 1959, which was sent from Moscow to the CIA,

reported that bee Harvey Oswald, a recently discharged

marine, had appeared at the United States Moscow embassy

to renounce his American citizenship and "has offered

Soviets any information he has acquired as /an/ enlisted

radar operator."

/ At least three other communications of

thes

a confidential nature which gave more detail on the Oswald

case were

apparently?

sent to the dia chaut tanne perio

*Two of these documents, Warren Commission Exhibits 917 and

918, contained routing notations indicating that they had been

sent to the CIA, but the documents themselves were never

found in Oswald's file.

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

C

---

## Page 23

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

approximate time preciod

Agency officials questioned by

the Committee have testified that the substance of the

October 31, 1959 cable was sufficiently important to warrant

the opening of a 201 file. In fact, however

• Oswald's file

was not opened until December 9, 1960.

The CIA was requested by the Committee to indicate

where documents pertaining to Oswald had been disseminated

internally and stored prior to the opening of his 201 file.

•In response, the Agency advised the Committee that because

document dissemination records of low national security

significance are retained for only a five-year period, they

are no longer in existence for the years

"1959-1963.

Consequently, the Agency was unable to explain either when

these documents had been received or by which component.

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

000......19

---

## Page 24

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

restorate

An Agency memorandum, dated September 18, 1975,

indicates that Oswald's file was opened on December 9, 1960

by virtue of the receipt of five documents: two from the

FBI, two from the State Department, and one from the Navy.

This reasoning, however, is inconsistent with the presence

in Oswald's file of four State Department documents dated in

1959 and a fifth dated May 25, 1960. It is, of course,

possible that the September 18, 1975 memorandum is referring

State Department documents that were received by the

DDO

in October and November of 1960 and that the earlier State

Department communications had been received by the CIA's

Office of Security but not the

DDO

• In the absence of

dissemination records, however, the issue cannot be

resolved on this basis.

The September 18, 1975 memorandum also states that

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 25

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

Oswald's file was opened on December 9, 1960 as a result of

his "'defection' to the USSR on 10/31/59 and renewed interest

in Oswald brought about by his queries concerning possible

reentry into the United States."

however, that Oswald expressed

— There is no indication,

tute wi

any intention

returning

to any United States government official

until mid-February

of 1961. Finally, reference to the original form that was

used to start a file on Oswald does not resolve this issue,

that

because the appropriate slot which would normally indicate

the "source document" that sinitiated the action met effoca

to an Agency component rather than to a dated document.

The Committee was able to determine the basis for the

opening of Oswald's file on December 9, 1960 by interviewing

and then deposing the Agency employee who was directly

responsible for initiating the opening action. This individual

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 26

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA -controlled documents.)

explained that the CIA had received a reguest from the State

Department for information concerning American defectors.

After compiling the requested information, she responded

to the inquiry and then opened a 201 file on each defector

involved.

This statement was corroborated by review of

State

(letter

Department which indicated that such a request, in fact, had

been made of the CIA on October 25, 1960.

Attached to the

State Depart ment letter was a list of known defectors;

bee-Harvey Oswald's name was on that list.

The CIA

responded to this request on November 21, 1960 by providing

the requested information and adding two names to the

State Department's original list.

Significantly, the Committee reviewed the files of

edeven individuals on the original State Department list

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 27

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

meroper in Decemen 1900)

and determined that the files for each of the five (including

oswall) who did not have Agamay (20ly tiles pelor to tha

receipt of the State Department inquiry, veronapened in

Docember 1960. In each case, the slot for "source document"

a dated document.

Even so, this analysis only explaind why a file on

Osvald was finally opened; standing alone it dece not explain

the seemingly long delay in the opening of the file.

determine whether such a delayed opening was necessarily

unusual, the Committee reviewed the files of 13 of the 14

•persons on the CIA's November 21, 1960 response to the State

Department and of 16 other defectors (from an original list

of 380)

who were American born, had defected during the

years 1958-1963, and who had returned to the United States

Clossification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 28

Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

during that same time period.

of 29 files that were reviewed,

eight individuals had been the subject of 201 files prior to

the time of their defection.

In only four of the remaining

21

Ewenty-one cases were 201 files opened at the time of

defection. The files on the 17 other defectors were opened

from four months

to several years after the time of defection.

te Committeri

At the very least, this file review indicated that

1943,

during 1958-65 the opening of a file years after a defection

was not at all uncomnon. In many cases the opening was

triggered by some event, independent of the defection, which

drew attention to the individual involved.

Why was Lee Haryey Oswald's 201 file opened undere

the name Lee Henry Oswald?

Lee Harvey Oswald's 201 file was mistakenly opened

under the name Lee Henry Oswald. No Agency witness

was able

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 29

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

specifically to explain how this mistake was made. All

Agency personnel, however, including the person who initiated

the file opening, testified that this must have been occasioned

innocently by bureaucratic error. Moreover, the Committee

received substantial testimony to the effect that this error

would not have prevented, Oswald's name from being elicited

from the CIA's filing system during a routine name trace done

under the name Lee Henry Oswald.

What do the letters "AG," which are written in the

space for "Other Identification" on Oswald's 201

opening form. connote?

The form used to initiate the opening of a 201 file

for Lee Harvey Oswald contains the designation AG in a box

marked "Other Identification."

Because this term was considered

to be of potential significance in resolving the issue of

Oswald's alleged Agency relationship, the CIA was asked to

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 30

Classification:

(This form is to ba used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

explain its meaning.

The Agency's response indicated that "AG" is the OI

("Other Identification") code meaning "actual or potential

defectors/to the East or the SINO/SOVIET Bloc including

Cuba," and that anyone so described could have the OI.

code

"AG."

This code was reportedly added to Oswald's

opening form because of the comment on the form that he had

defected to the Soviet Union in 1959.

An Agency official who was a DDO records expert and

for many years had been involved in the CIA's investigative

efforts concerning the John F. Kennedy assassination, gave

the Committee a somewhat different explanation of the

circumstances surrounding the term "AG" and its placement on

Oswald's opening form. This individual testified that "AG"

was an example of a code used to aid in preparing computer

listings of occupational groupings or intelligence affiliations.

massication:.

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 31

2.6

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

He explained that these codes always utilized two letters and

that in this case, the first letter "A" nust have represented

Commurism, while the second letter would represent some

category within the Communist structure.

His recollection was that at the time of the

assassination, the "AG" code was not yet in existence because

there were no provisions then in effect within the Agency for

the indexing of American defectors. He recalled that it was

only during the life of the Warren Commission that the CIA

realized that its records system lacked provisions for

indexing an individual such as Oswald. Consequently, the

CIA then revised its records handbook to include authorization

for indexing American defectors and established a code for

its computer system to be used for the category of "American

defectors." Although this Individuat did not know when the

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 32

Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

notation "AG" was added to Oswald's opening sheet, he presumed

that it would have to have been following the addition of

the American defector code, thus placing the time somewhere

in the middle of the Warren Commission's investigation. He

explained that it was difficult to determine when any of the

notations on the opening sheet were made, since it was standard

procedure to update the forms whenever necessary so that they

were as reflective as possible of the available information.

Finally,

this individu testified that the regulations

regarding the use of this occupation and intelligence code

specifically prohibited indicating that a particular person

was either an employee of the Agency or someone who was used

by the Agency.

This prohibition was designed to prevent

anyone from being able to produce any kind of categorical

listing of CIA employees, contacts or connections.

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 33

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

No d

Why does the opening form for bed Harvey Oswald's

201 file indicate that the file was to be restricted?

The form that was used to initiate the opening of lea

Harvey Oswald's 201 file contains a notation indicating that

the file was to be "restricted." This indication was

considered potentially significant because of the CIA's

practice of restricting agents' files to persons on a "need

accer

to know" basis.

Further investigation, however, revealed that restricting

access to a file was not necessarily indicative of any relation-

ship with the CIA.

The individual who actually placed the restriction on

Oswald's file testified that this was done simply to allow

her to remain aware of any developments that might have

occurred with regard to the file. This purpose was achieved

ecause any person seeking access to the file first had t

Classified by derivation:.

17725

---

## Page 34

{29

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA-controlled documents.)

waS

notify the restricting officer; at that time the restricting

officer could be apprised of any developments possibly

necessitating access to the file by someone else.

This testimony was confirmed by a CIA records expert

who further testified that, had the file been permanently

Fisrt..

changed as well as restricted, the possibility of a relationship

with the CIA would have been greater. There was no indication

on Oswald's form that it had been placed on permanent change.

Finally, the Committee reviewed the files of four other

that

defectors which had been opened at the same time and by the

same person as Oswald's, and determined that each of their

files had similarly been restricted. Each of these other

individuals

had been

on the list of defectors that had been

exchanged by the CIA and State Department. None of the files

pertaining to these other defectors had any evidence suggestive

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 35

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

of a possible intelligence agency association..

Were 37 documents missing from bee Harvey Oswald's

301 File? e

In the course of reviewing tea darway swald's 201.

file,

the Committee discovered an unsigned memorandum to the Chief

of Counterintelligence, Research and Analysis, dated

20 February 1964, which stated that 37 documents were missing

from Oswald's 201 file. According to the memorandum, this

statement was based upon a comparison of a machine listing

of documents officially recorded as being in the. 201 file and

those documents actually physically available in the file.

While the memorandum mentioned that such a machine listing was

attached, no

such attachment was found in the 201 file at

the time of the Committee's review.

The memorandum itself

was

bears the classification "SECRET EYES ONLY," and is one of the

Classification:

Cluisified by derivation:

---

## Page 36

Classitication:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

documents that had been fully withheld from release under the

Freedom of Information review.

Act

In response to a Committee inquiry, the CIA advised

that because Oswald's file was so active during the course of

the Warren Commission investigation

up-to-date machine listings

were produced periodically. On this basis, the Agency stated

'it must be assumed that whoever was responsible for

maintaining the Oswald file brought thi

file up-to-date by

locating the 37 documents and placing them in the file."

Because this response was incomplete, the author of

th

is memorandum was deposed. He testified that once a

document had been registered into a 201 file by the Agency's

computer system, physical placement of the document in the

file was not always necessary.

On this basis, he explained

that the items listed in the memorandum were not missing but

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 37

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

rather had either been routinely placed in a separate file

because of their sensitivity or were being held by other

individuals who needed them for analytical purposes.

He

further stated that in the course of his custodianship of

Oswald's file, he had requested perhaps as many as 100

computer listings on the contents of the Oswald file. While

there had been many instances in which one or more documents

had been charged out to someone, he stated that he had never

discovered that any documents

were actually missing.

Accorjing to his testimony, the 37 documents, in fact, were

available, but simply were not located in the file at that time.

Was there any evidence that the CIA had for some

reason maintained a dual filing system regarding

Lee Harvey Oswald?

although the Committee was aware from

outset of

the possibility that a dual filing system -- using one

Classification: -

Classified by derivction:

---

## Page 38

Classification: -

(This form is to ba used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

ostensibly innocuous file and one which contained the aotual

operational detail indicative of an Agency relationship with f.c.

For other.

-a

the CIA -- could be utilized to disguise the existence of it

aotual relationship, between

activia

the era, this

demelaned

awareness heightened into a concern with the discovery o

certain files which indicated that at least two Agency

officers had contemplated the use of fakelfiles and forged

documents to protect the purpase ofubhe zR Rifle project

ero india

sho ZR Rifle projoet was an executive

i deale

action (i-O

Forme CIA nestors

the Oswald case. Richard Helms testified that the assassinations

aspect of this project was never implemented and, in fact,

was discontinued. as soon as it was brought to his attentiong

but the implications of this discovery in terms of the

pasinhlity ils

its fanted

potontiality fox aulaked oswald file were troublling

25om

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 39

Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

'ripes

In the Oswald case, there were two items which

scrutin

ny because they were potentially indicative of a dual

Usuali

filing system. The first involved a photograph of him that

had been taken in Minsk in 1961jand the second concerned a

copy of a lotter that had been witten to twy ld nother

during his stay in the Soviet Union. At the time of

President Kennedy's assassination, both of these items were in

the CIA's possession, but neither was in Oswald's 201 file.

The photograph of Oswald taken in Minsk shows him

posing with several other people. According to the CIA, the

picture was found after the assassination as a result

of

a search of the Agency's graphics files for materials potentially

relevant to Oswald's stay in the Soviet Union.

The

Agency advised that this photograph, as well as several

others not related to Oswald, were routinely obtained in

Classification:

Clesified by derivation: _

---

## Page 40

want aid

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

1962 from some tourists by the CIA's Domestic Contacts

Division, a component that frequently sought information on

a nonclandestine basis from Americans traveling abroad in

Communist countries.

Committee interviews

with the tourists in question

confirmed that the photograph, along with 159 other

photographic slides, had been made routinely available to the

-Ageness

Domestic Contacts Division. Neither tourist had

heard of bee Har

* Oswald prior to the assassination or even

knew which photographs had been of interest to the Agency.

CIA records indicate that only five of the 160 slides

initially made available were retained.

Committee

interviews with the two CIA employees who had handled the

slides for the Domestic Contacts Division established that

Oswald had not been identified at the time that these

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

dresse

Cut 3

---

## Page 41

dias

dite

3

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

jini..

photographic materials had been made available.

One

of these employees stated that the Oswald picture had been

retained because it depicted a Soviet intourist guide; the

other employee indicated that the picture had been kept

because de shoned a crane in the background. 'phe s

employee who worked at CIA headquarters, confirmed that the

adicated

photograph f Oswald had not been discovered until a post-

assassination search of the Minsk graphics file for materials

pertaining to Oswald..

Accordingly, this photograph

not evidence that the

CIA maintained a dual filing system with respect to Oswald.

The picture apparently was kept in a separate file only until

1964 when Oswald was actually identified to be one of its

subjects.

The Committee's investigation of a letter concerning

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 42

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

Oswald that was in the Agency's possession similarly did not

result in any evidence of a dual filing system. This letter,

dated July 6, 1961, had been sen

Marquerite Oswald to her

son, but was Intercepted as a result a

of a CIA mail intereept

It's payor you

progran

This program. known as HT-Lingualy attempte

to intercept letters being sent between the United States and

Russia in an effort to obtain both positive intelligence and

counterintelligence information. — Typically, intercepted

letters andfor their envelopes would be photographed and then.

returned to the mails.

In response to a Committee inquiry, the CIA explained

-hT-Lingus

that because of the projeet extreme sensitivity, all

materials generated as a result of mail intercepts were stored

in a separate projell file inich was maintained by the

ct

counterintelligence staff. _/ Consequently, such items were

Classificarion:

Clessified by derivation:

---

## Page 43

8

cuisin

santandi

Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

not placed in 201 files.

This

explanation was confirmed by

the testimony of a senior officer from the counterintelligence

staff who had jurisdiction over the HT-Lingual project files.*

Was there any evidence that lee Harvey Oswald had

ever participated, in a CIA counterintelligence

staff project?

The Committee's review of HT-Lingual files pertaining

to Oswald** resulted in the discovery of reproductions of four

index cards, two pertaining

to Lee Harvey Oswald and two

*Since Oswald was the subject in approximately 50 communications

during his stay in the Soviet Union, the Committee also

questioned why

the Agency

"ostensibly had just one letter

in its possession directly related to Lee Harvey Oswald.

In essence,, this may be explained by the fact that HT-Lingual

sampling ated Four days a week, and, even then oaked

sampling basis.

**Although the Agency had only one letter in its possession

directly related to Oswald, after the assassination the

HT-Lingual files were combed for additional materials potentially

related to him.

Approximately 50 pieces of correspondence were

discovered;. None of these were ultimately judged to be of any

significance.

These materials, however, were stored in a

separate Oswald HT-Lingual file.

Clansitication:

2.1119

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 44

Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

pertaining to Marina Oswald, which were dated after the

assassination of President Kennedy. The pages containing the

reproductions of these cards

*re stamped "Secret Eyes Only."

The first card regarding Lee Harvey Oswald, is dated

9 November 1959

,and states that Oswald is a recent defector to

the USSR and a former Marine. It also bears the notation

"CI/Project/RE" and some handwritten notations. The second

card on Oswald places him in Minsk, USSR. It contains

background information on him and states that he "reportedly

expresses a desire for return to the U.S. under certain

conditions." This card is dated 7 August 1961 and also bears

the notation "WATCH LIST." These cards, particularly the

reference to "CI/Project/RE," raised the question of whether

Lee Harvey Oswald was, in fact, involved in some sort of CI

project.

The Committee questioned former employees of the CIA who

classification:

Classified by derivation:

!..

3 67

---

## Page 45

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

may have had some knowledge pertaining to the HT-Lingual

program in general and these cards in particular.

Some of

these employees recognized the cards as relating

to the

HT-Lingual project, but were unable to identify the meaning

of the notation, "CI/Project/RE."

Howavas, one persen testified that the "CI Project".

was "simply a name of convenience which was used to describe

the HT-Lingual project"! another person testified that

thet

"CI Project" was the name of the component

which

ran the

This pason. also

HT-Lingual project.

the latter explained that "RE" represented

the initials of a person who had been a translator of foreign

language documents and that the initials had probably been

placed there so that someone could come back to the translator

if a question arose concerning one of the documents.

Another employee testified that the "Watch-List" notation on

Classification:

Classified by isrivation:

---

## Page 46

Classification: =

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

the second card. referred to a liot of persons who had

been identified as being of particular interest ir

the ingene

with respect to the mail intercept program.

The Committee requested the CIA to provide an

explanation for the terms "CI/Project/RE," and "Watch List,"

and for the significance of the handwritten notations appearing

on the index cards. In addition, the Committee requested a

description of criteria utilized in compiling a "watch list."

In regard to the meaning of the notation "CI/Project/RE,"

the CIA explained that there existed an office within the

Counter intelligence staff that was known as "CI/Project," a

cover title that had been used to hide the true nature of the

office's

functions. In fact, this office was responsible for

the exploitation of the material produced by the HT-Lingual

project.

The response further explains that "RE" represents

Classification:

Classified by darivation:

---

## Page 47

Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

the initials of a former employee

cover.

who is presently retired under

In responding to a request for the criteria used in

compiling a "Watch List," the CIA referred to a section of

the Report to the President by the Commission on CIA Activities

within the United States, which states:

Individuals or organizations of particular intelligence

interest (one should also add counterintelligence

interest) were specified in Watch Lists provided

to the mail project by the Counterintelligence Staff,

by other CIA components, and by the FBI.

The total

number of names on the Watch List varied, from time

to time, but on the average, the list included

approximately 300 names,

including about 100 furnished

by the FBI.

The Watch List included the names of

foreigners and of United States citizens.

Thus, the full meaning of the notation is that on

an emplage classifials un)

9 November 1959, RE placed Oswald's name on the "watch List"

for the HT-Lingual project for the reason stated on the card

that Oswald was a recent defector to the USSR and a former

Marine.

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 48

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

desatant

The response goes

to

state that the handwritten

number, #7-305, which also appears on the first card, is a

reference to the communication from the CI Staff to the Office

CI StoStA

of Security expressing the formers interest in seeing any

mail to or from Oswald in the Soviet Union. Finally, the

other handwritten notation, "N/R-RI, 20 Nov. 59," signifies

that a name. trace run through the central records register

indicates that there was no record for Lee Oswald as per

that date.

The cI stuff office who

opened the Oswall, tor file

The Agency's explanation of the meaning of the second

card Is that on 7 August 1961,

Mrs.

Egerte requested that

11iu

Oswald's name be placed on the "Watch' List" because of

Oswald's expressed desire to return to the U.S. as stated on

the card. The handwritten notation indicates, in this instance,

that Oswald's name was deleted from the "Watch List" on 28 May 1962.

Classification:.

#This, of course,

is contrang to the befere's

record

shout indicates

recipto !

Telepam:

escala

Clasified by deriction:

7, 195% n

---

## Page 49

of two tie teen frie the alia.

Concern to a More Bot in 4, 1859.

---

## Page 50

at tad

44

Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

vite

I reference to the two cards on Marina Oswald, the

Agency stated that her name was first placed on the "Watch

List" on 26 November 1963 because she was the wife of Lee

Harvey Oswald. The second card served the purpose of adding

the name Marina Oswald Porter to the "Watch List" on

29 June 1955 after she remarried. Both names were deleted

from the list as of 26 May 1972.

Thus, the statements of former CIA employees were

corroborated by the Agency's response regarding the explanation

of the index cardsin the CIA's HI-Lingual files pertaining to

Oswald. The explanations attested te

Hen that the •

references on the cards were not demonstrative of an Agency

relationship with Oswald, but instead were examples of notations

routinely utilized in connection with the HT-Lingual project.

Classification:

Classified by derivetion:

---

## Page 51

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA - controlled documents.)

Els

Did the CIA ever debrief

Oswald?

The CIA has denied ever having had any contact with.

tree Heapey Oswald, and its records are consistent with this

position. Because the Agency has a Domestic Contacts Division

thes

what routinely attempts to solicit information on a

nonclandestine basis from Americans traveling abroad, the.

absence of any record indicating that lae laezey Oswald, a

returning defector who had worked in a Minsk radio factory,

had not been debriefed has been considered by Warren Commission

critics to be either inherently noncredible (i.e., the

record has been destroyed) or indicative that Oswald had been

contacted through other than routine Domestic Contact Division

channels.

After reviewing the Agency's records pertaining to this

issue, the Committee's initial point of inquiry was

to interview

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 52

.46

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA - controlled documents.)

the former chief of an Agency component responsible for research

related to clandestine operations within the Soviet Union who

had written a November 25, 1963 memorandum Which indicated that,

upon Oswald's seturn from the soviet union, I this officer

had considered "the laying of interviews lon him/ through

Ithe Domestic Contacts Divison/ or other suitable channels."

This individual indicated that Oswald was considered suspect

because the Soviets had appeared to have been very solicitous

of him. For this reason, a nonclandestine contact, either by

the Domestic Contacts Division or other "suitable channels"

such as the FBI or the. Immigration and Naturalization Service

*The memorandum indicates that the possibility of an Oswald

contact was discussed during

the summer of 1960, but the author

indicated that the conversation actually took place during

the summer of 1962, shortly before his transfer to a new

assignment.

During

the summer of 1960, the author was not

on an active

assignment.

Classificarion:.

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 53

Classification:

(This form is to be used for. material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

was considered. The officer stated, however, that to his

knowledge, no contact with Oswald was ever madey

moreover, if

a debriefing had occurred, the officer stated that he would

have been informed. Finally, he stated that Oswald was

considered a potential lead, but only of marginal importance,

and therefore the absence of a debriefing was not at all

unusual.

The Committee interviewed five other Agency employees

who were in a position to have discussed Oswald in 1962 with

the author of this memorandum, including the person who

replaced the author of the memorandum as chief of the research

section, but none of them could recall any such conversation.

Interviews with personnel from the Soviet Russia Division's

clandestine operations section, the American

Legal travelers

visitors

program, and the clandestine activity research section failed

Classification:

Classitied by deriration:

---

## Page 54

48

Cassification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

to result in any evidence suggesting that Oswald had been

contacted at any time by the CIA.

The author of the November 25, 1963 memorandum also

informed the Committee that the CIA maintained a large

volume of information on the Minsk radio factory in which

worked. This information was stored in the Office of

Research and Reporting. _

Another former CIA employee, who

had worked in the Foreign Documents Division in the Soviet

branch of the Directorate of Intelligence in 1962, advised the

Committee that he specifically recalled collecting intelligence

regarding the Minsk fadio flant. In fact, this individual

claims that during the sumner of 1962 he reviewed a contact

report from representatives of

the

CIA'S

who had interviewed

a former Marine who had worked at the Minsk

padio plant following his defection to the USSR. This defector,

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 55

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA -controlled documents.)

whom the employee believes may have been Oswald, had been

living with his family in Minsk.

The employee advised the Committee that the contact

report was filed in a volume obsessng the Minsk Radio Blant

which should be retrievable from the Industrial Registry Branch,

then a component of the Office of Central Reference. Accordingly,

the Committee requested that the CIA provide both the above

deserted contact report and the volume of materials

concerning the Minsk fadio Alant. A review by the Committee

of the documents in the volumes on the Minsk Radio Plant,

however,

revealed that no such contact report existed in

feelinten

that file

The CIA has stated to the Committee that, between 1958

and 1963, it had no procedure for the systematic debriefin

systematic debriefing of

ly

overseas travelers, including returning defectors.

Instead,

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 56

Matinathe

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

the Agency relied upon the FBI both to make such contacts and

report any significant results.

To investigate this question further, the Committee

reviewed the files of 22 individuals (selected from an original

list of 380 possible Soviet defectors) who were born in America

and appeared to have returned to the United States between

1958 and 1963.* Of these 22 individuals, only four were

interviewed at any time by the CIA. These four instances

tended to involve particular intelligence or counterintelligence

needs, but this was not always the case.

Based upon this file-review, it appeas

aneand no see Committe

the CIA did not contact returning defectors in 1962 as a matter

*An effort was also made to review only the files of American-

born individuals who had defected during these years:

Not

all of the 22 individuals, however, met this criterie

Classification:

Clossified by derivation:

---

## Page 57

1

Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

of standard operating procedure.

For this reason, the

absence of any Agency contact with Oswald upon his return from

the soviet Union cannot be considered,

unusual,

tobe

particularly since the FBI did fulfill its jurisdictional

obligation to conduct such interviews.

The Justice Department's Failure to Prosecute he

Oswald for Offering to Give Intelligence Information to

the Soviet Union

When Lee Harvey Oswald appeared at the United States

Embassy in Moscow on October 31, 1959 for the purpose of

renouncing his American citizenship, he allegedly offered to

give the Soviets information that he had acquired as a

Marine Corps radar operator.

The Committee sought

to determine why the Justice Department did not prosecute

oswald for his offer to divulge this kind of information.

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 58

52

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA -controlled documents.)

A review of Oswald's correspondence with the American

embassy in Moscow indicates that on February 13, 1961, the

embassy received a letter from him in which he expressed a

"desire to return to the United States if... some agreement

[could be reached/ concerning the dropping of any legal

proceedings against /him/." _/

On February 28, 1961, the

embassy sought guidance from the State Department concerning

Oswald's potential liability to

criminal prosecution.

The State Department, however, responded on April 13, 1961 that

it was "not in a position to advise Mr. Oswald whether upon his

desired return to the United. States he may be amenable to

prosecution for any possible offenses committed in violation

of the laws of the United States..."

On May 10, 1961, Oswald wrote the embassy demanding a

"full guarantee" against the possibility of prosecution.

Classification:

4*359

Classified by deriestion:

470:7

---

## Page 59

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

He visited with embassy consul Richard Snyder on July 16,

1961, and denied that he had ever given any information to

the Soviets.

Snyder advised Oswald on an informal basis

that, while no assurances could be given, the embassy did not

perceive any basis for prosecuting Oswald, for an offense

involving any severe punishment

There is no record that the State Department ever

gave Oswald any assurances that he

would not be prosecuted.

Upon his return to the United States, Oswald was interviewed

twice by the FBI. On each occasion, he denied

ever

any information to the Soviet Union.

In a response to a Committee request, the Department of

Justice indicated that prosecution of Oswald was never

considered because his file contains no evidence that he had

ever revealed or offered

to reveal national defense information

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

40128

---

## Page 60

Classitication:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA - controlled documents.)

to the soviet Union. -

/ In a subsequent response, the

Department acknowledged the existence of some

evidence that

Oswald had offered information to the Soviet Union, but

stated that there were, nevertheless, serious obstacles to a

possible prosecution:

It (Department file) does contain a copy of

an FBI memorandum, dated July 3, 1961, which

is recorded as having been received in the

Justice Department's Internal Security

Division on December 10, 1963, which states

that the files of the Office of Naval

Intelligence contained a copy of a Department

of State telegram, dated October 31, 1959,

at Moscow.

The telegram, which is summarized

in the FBI report, quoted Oswald as having

offered the Soviets any information he had

acquired as a radar operator.

The FBI report

did not indicate that the information to

which Oswald had access as a radar operator

was classified.

Oswald returned to the United States on

June 13, 1962.

He was interviewed by the

FBI on June 26, 1962, at Fort Worth,

texas, at which time

he denied furnishing

any information to the Soviets concerning

his Marine Corps experiences. He stated

that he never gave

the Soviets any information

which would be used to the detriment of the

United States.

In sum, therefore, the only "evidence"

that Oswald ever offered to furnish

information to the soviets is his own

reported statement to an official at the

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 61

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

U.s. embassy in Moscow.

That statement,

of course, was contradicted by his denial

to the FBI, upon his return to the United

States, that he had ever made such an offer.

In the prosecution of a criminal case, the

Government cannot establish a prima facie

case solely on a defendant's unsupported

confession.

The Government must introduce

substantial independent evidence which would

tend to establish the trustworthiness of the

defendant's statement.

see, opper v.

United States, 348 U.S. 84 (1954).

Accordingly, in the absence of any information

that Oswald

had offered to reveal classified information

to the Soviets, and lacking corroboration of his

statement that he had proferred information of any

kind to the Russians, we did not consider his

prosecution for violation of the espionage statutes,

18 U.S.C.

793, 793. _

He Committer could fui

Based upon this analysis, there i no evidence that

Oswald received favorable treatment from either the State

Department or the Justice Department regarding the possibility

of = criminal prosecution.

B. Oswald's Contacts with Americans in the Soviet Union

Priscilla Johnson MCMillan

Priscilla Johnson McMillan, author of Marina and Lee,

became a subject of the Committee's inquiry because she was

Clossification:

Clossified by derivation:

---

## Page 62

Boos

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

one of two American correspondents who had obtained an interview

with bee Harvey Oswald during his stay in Moscow in 1959. The

Committee sought to investigate

the allegation that Ms. McMillan's

interview with Oswald had been arranged by the CIA.

John McVickar, a consul at the American embassy,

dracussed

testified that he had Oswald's case with Ms. McMillan, and

Distressed

that he thought

"she might help us in communicating with hin

and help him in dealing with what appeared to be a very strong

personal problem if she were able to talk with him." _

McVickar stated, however, that he had never worked in any

capacity for the CIA, nor did he believe that Ms. McMillan

had any such affiliation.

The Committee's review of Me

j"

McVickar's State Department and CIA files confirmed that he had

never been

associated with the CIA.

Classification:

i.

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 63

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

Gavo the fellau

iscording to Ms. MCMillants testimony about the events

surrounding her interview with Dee Nau

svey oswald in November

1959, she had just returned from a visit to the United States

where she covered the Camp David summit between President

Eisenhower and Premier Khrushchev. On November 16, 1959, she

went to the American embassy to pick up her mail for the first

time since her return to the Soviet Union. The mail pickup

facility was in a foyer near the consular office.

Consular

Officer John A. McVickar came out of this office and welcomed

McMillan back to the Soviet Union. They exchanged a few

words, and; as she was leaving, McVickar commented that at

her hotel was an American who

was trying to defect to the

Soviet Union. McVickar stated that the American would not

speak to "any of us," but might speak to McMillan because she

ed

was a woman. She recalle

that as she was leaving, McVickar

Classification:

15137

• The

Ciassified by derivation:

51709

472.947

---

## Page 64

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

told her to remember that

she was an American.

Ms.

McMillan proceeded to her hotel, found out the

American's room number, knocked on his door and asked him

for an interview. The American, Lee Harvey Oswald, did not

ask her into the room, but he did agree to talk to her in her

room later that night. No American government official

arranged the actual interview with Oswald. She met with Oswald

just once. She believes that MoVickar called her on November 17,

the day after her interview with Oswald, and asked her to supper.

That evening at supper they discussed her interview with Oswald.

McVickar indicated a general concern about Oswald and felt that

the attitude of another American consular official might have

pushed Oswald further in the direction of defection. McVickar

indicated a personal feeling that it would be a sad thing for

Oswald to defect in view of his age, but he did not indicate

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 65

59

Classification:

This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

that this was the U.S. Government's position kEyer.

Ms

Millan also testified that she had never worked for

the CIA, nor was she connected with any other federal government

agency at the time of her interview with bee ewey Oswald.

According to an affidavit that Ms. McMillan filed with the

Committee, her only employment with the federal government was

as a 30-day temporary translator for the Joint Press Reading

•Service, an organization that was operated by the American,

British?

and Canadian embassies in Moscow.

Finally, Ms. McMillan testified that because of her

background in Russian studies, she applied for a position with

the CIA in 1952 as an intelligence analyst.

The application,

was withdrawn, but the CIA completed its security check on

N..

her and denied her a security clearance: She acknowledged

being debriefed by an Agency employee in 1962 after returning

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 66

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

from her thaila trip to the Soviet Union, but explained that this

contact was in some way related to the confiscation of her

notes by Soviet officials.*

The Committee's review of CIA files pertaining

to Ms. McMillan corroborated her testimony. There was no

indication in the file suggesting that she had ever worked for

fried:

MeMillan dilled the come surroundy this enlaunter in 8oi

*In November 1962, I had a conversation with a man who

identified himself as a C.I.A. employee and gave his name as

either Donald Jameson or James MacDonald.

I agreed to see him

in part because the confiscation of my papers and notes had

utterly altered my situation -- I now had no hope of returning

to the U.s.s.R. and was free for the first time to write what

I knew.

I was preparing a series of articles for The Reporter

which would contain the same information about which Mr.

Jameson had expressed a desire to talk to me.

Finally, during

the latter part of my 1962 trip to the U.S.S.R., I had been

under heavy surveillance and the K.G.B. knew what Soviet citi-

zens I had seen.

Many of those I had talked to for the Reporter

articles were Russian "liberals" (anti-Stalin and pro-Khrushchev)

What reprisals might befall those whom I had interviewed I

did not know, but since my notes were now part of the K.G.B.

files, I felt that it might help them if the C.I.A. knew that

which the K.G.B. already knew. My meeting with

Mr. Jameson,

which occurred at the Brattle Inn, Cambridge, was a reversal of

my usual effort to avoid contact with the C.I.A., and the

subject matter was confined to my impressions of

the Soviet

literary and cultural climate.

Classirication:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 67

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

the CIA. In fact, there was some evidence suggesting that the

Agency was reluctant even to debrief her after her trips to

the Soviet Union. An interview with the former Agency official

who had been deputy chief and then chief of the American legal

travelersprogram during the years 1958 to 1961,

conta

a that

Ms. McMillan had not been used by the CIA in that program.

There was information in Ms. McMillan's file indicating

that on occasion during the years 1962-65 she had provided

cultural and literary type

information to the CIA.

None of

this information, however, was suggestive in any way of a

clandestine relationship. Accordingly, there is no evidence

that Ms. McMillan ever worked for the CIA or received the

Agency's

assistance in obtaining an interview with beefe

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 68

thirst

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

Oswald. #

a Richard B. snyder

Richard E. Snyder was the consular official in the United

States Moscow embassy who handled the Oswald case. It was

Snyder with whom Oswald met

Thad

259 when Oswald sought to rerounce

his American citizenship.

Two years later, when Oswald

initiated his inquiries about returning to the United States,

Snyder again became involved in the case. Warren Commission

critics have alleged that Snyder was associated in some way

with the CIA during his service in the Moscow embassy.

In his Committee depositon, Richard Snyder acknowledged

that for an

even-month period during 1949-50 he worked fox

evidence

*Nor is there any basis, based upon Ms. McMillan's testimony,

CIA files, and an affidavit provided by McMillan's publisher,

Harper and Row, to support the allegation that the CIA

financed the book Marina and Lee.

Classification:

Classified by cierivation:

Vandra

---

## Page 69

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

the CIA while he was on the waiting list for a foreign service

appointment with the State Department. Snyder testified,

however, that, since resigning from the CIA in March of 1950,

he has had no contact with the CIA other than a letter

written in 1970 or 1971 inquiring about employment on a

contractual basis.*

The Committee reviewed Snyder's files at the State

Department, Defense Department and the CIA. Both the

ples

State Department and Defense Departmentlare consistent with

his testimony. Snyder's CIA file revealed that, at one time

prior to 1974, it had been red flagged and maintained on a

segregated basis.

The file contained a routing indicator

Hund

whet stated that the file had been red flagged because of a

*Snyder also denied contact with any other intelligence

service while active as a

foreign service officer.

Classification:

Classitiad by darivation:

---

## Page 70

4

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA controlled documents.)

"DCI statement and a matter of cover" concerning Snyder.

In response to a Committee inquiry, the CIA indicated

that the DCI statement presumably refers to comments which

former DCI Richard Helms had made in 1964 concerning the

Oswald case, when Helms had been Deputy Director for Plans.*

The CIA also stated that Snyder's file had been flagged at the

request of DDO/CI to ensure that all inquiries concerning

Snyder would be referred to that office. The Agency was unable

to explain the reference to "cover" because, according to its

records, Snyder had never been assigned any cover while employed.

Fuxther, the Agency stated that "[There is no record in Mr.

Snyder's Official Personnel File that he ever worked, directly

*Responding to a newspaper allegation that Oswald had met with CIA

representatives in Moscow, Richard Helms wrote a memorandum to

the Warren Commission on March 18, 1964 in which he stated the

"desire to state for the record that the allegation carried in

this press report is utterly unfounded as far as the CIA

is concerned."

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 71

Classification:

DeGi

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

REACE OF THE DOCUMENT

az relicted

or indirectly, in any capacity for the CIA after his :

resignation on 26 September 1950."

The

Committee

does not regard this explanation as

satisfactory, especially since Snyder's 201 file indicates that

for approximately one year during 1956-1957 he was used by an

Agency case officer as

ecause

of his access to othe

Dio might be soing to the

soviet Uniond nor was the Agency actually able to explain

specifically why someone considered it necessary to red

flag the Snyder file.

The remainder of the Snyder file, however, is entirely

consistent with his testimony before the Committee concerning

the absence of Agency contacts. In addition, the CIA

personnel officer who handled Snyder's case in 1950 confirmed

that Snyder had, in fact, terminated his employment with the

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 72

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA - controlled documents.)

CIAM ONSIBICTION TO

CECLASSIHCATION AND/OR

RELEASEOF THIS DOCUMENT

CIA at that time. Moreover, he added that Snyder did not go

to the State Department

This position was confirmed by a former State Department

official who was aware of

In addition, this individual stated

that at no time from 1959 to

1963

• (Insertion to follow -- Analysis)

M. DE. Alexis H. Davison L

DI. Alexis H. Davison was the U.S. Embassy physician in

Moscow from May 1961 to May 1963. In May 1963, he was expelled

from the Soviet Union in connection with the Penkovsky spy

case.

Atter tolassification:

assassination of President Kennedy, it was

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 73

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

discovered that the name of DI. 'Davison's mother, Mrs. Hal

Davison, and her Atlanta address were in Oswald's address book

under the heading "mother of U.S. Embassy doctor."

addition, it was also determined that the flight what

Oswald, his wife and child took from New York to Dallas on

June 14, 1962 had stopped in Atlanta.

For this reason, it has been alleged that Di. Davison

was Oswald's intelligence contact in Moscow.

In a Committee interview, DI. Alexis Davison stated that

he had been a physician in the U.S. Air Force and was stationed

in Moscow as the U.S. Embassy physician from May 1961 to

May 1963. In this capacity, it was his duty to perform

physical examinations on all Soviet immigrants to the United

States.

He recalls

that most of these immigrants were elderly,

but he remembers two young women, one who was

a mathematics

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 74

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

teacher from the south of Russia and one who was married to

individud wheres married the Dimenses:

an American. The batten was very frightened by the prospect

of going to the United States. She stated that she was going

to Texas with her husband. Davison said that if she and her

Feet Lea

husband traveled through Atlanta on their way to Texas, his

mother, a native-born Russian, would be happy to see her. He

gave his mother's name and address in Atlanta to the woman's

husband, who was "scruffy looking."

This was not an unusual

thing to do, since his family had always been very hospitable

d

to Russians who visited Atlanta. In retrospect, he assumes

that he gave his mother's name and address to either Lee

was

or Marina Oswald, but he 15 uncertain be this, regurd.

After the assassination of President Kennedy, Davison

was interviewed first by a Secret Service agent and later by

an FBI agent in connection with the entry of his mother's

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 75

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

name and address in Oswald's address book.

The FBI agent

also interviewed Davison's mother, Mrs. Hal (Natalia

Alekseevna) Davison. Davison indicated that the Secret

Service and the FBI were the only government agencies to

interview him about his contact with the Oswalds.

Davison admitted his involvement in the Penkovsky spy

case.

Specifically, he stated that in connection with his

assignment as U.S. Embassy physician in Moscow, he had received

some superficial intelligence training. This training mainly

involved lectures on Soviet life and instructions on remembering

and reporting Soviet names and military activities. During his

tour of duty in Moscow, Davison was asked by an Embassy

employee, whose name he no longer remembers, to obseive a

certain lamp post on his daily route between his apartment

and the Embassy and to be alert for a signal by telephone

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 76

SOSASS

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

Davison agreed.

According. to his instructions, if he ever saw

black

chalk mark on the lamp post, or if he ever received a

telephone call in which the caller blew into the receiver

three times, he was to notify a person whose name he no

longer remembers.

He was told nothing else about this

operation. Davison performed his role in this operation for

approximately one year.

He participated in no other operations

during his tour of duty in Moscow, but he did perform some

desk work for the Hir Attache.

On just one occasion, toward

the end of this year, he observed the mark on the lamp post

and his wife received the telephone signal. As instructed,

he reported these happenings. Shortly thereafter, the Soviets

reported that they had broken the Penkovsky spying operation.

The Soviets declared Davison persona non grata just after he

Ravin

left Moscow beezuse is tour

of duty had. ended.

He does not

-assification:.

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 77

Classification: -

This form is to be used for material extrocted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

recall any intelligence debriefings on the Penkovsky

case.

under oath

Davison denied, participating in any other intelligence

activity related work during his employment in Moscow, and

provided the Committen i

an affidavitato thismeritatio

The former deputy chief of the CIA's Soviet Russia clandestine

activities section during 1960-62 confirmed

Davison's position,

and (characterized his involvement in the Penkovsky case as a

"one shot" deal.. In addition, a review of Davison's CIA and

Department of Defense files was atso entirely consistent with

his Committee testimony•

"an insofficion)

Accordingly, there is mo basis for concluding that dr.

Davison was ber

assey Oswald's intelligence contact in

Moscow.

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 78

72

Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA_ controlled documents.)

George deMohrenschildt

George deMohrenschildt was a prominent member of Dallas'

the

White Russian"

community who befriended Ice-Har

ay OswaldS

This friendship has engendered considerable speculation

because of the contrastf between the backgrounds of the two men.

it committed-decide 1973)

DeMohrenschildy was deseriber

Fas sophisticated and well educated,

one who moved easily in the social and professional circles

of oilmen and|the so-called "white Russian" community, many

conseruatio es

of whom were avowed sight wingers Oswald's "lowly" background

did not include much education or influence, and he was, in fact,

shunned by the very same Dallas Russian community which

embraced deMohrenschilat. Die eress idodos cal

FebecaSte

pos-lions

were

Marxist

In his warren Commission testimony, deMohrenschilat

Classitication:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 79

73

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

stated that he believed he had discussed lee Harvey Oswald

with J. Walton Moore, whom deMohrenschildt described as "a

Government man - either FBI or Central Intelligence."

DeMohrenschildt said Moore had interviewed him when he.

feltstran

cantali neturned Pom Yogos troin in 1957

returned from Yugoslavianand that he

was known as the head of

the FBI in Dallas.

L DeMohrenschildt said that he had

Fort

asked Moore and te. Worth attorney Max Clark about Oswala, to

reassure himself that it was "safe" for the deMohrenschildts

to assist Oswala, .

and was told by one. of these persons;

that "the guy seems to be ok."

I This admitted association

with

J. Walton Moore, a known employee of the CIA's

Domestic Contacts Division, gave rise to the question of

whether deMohrenschildt had contacted bee Hasvey Oswald on

behalf of the CIA.

Classification: -

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 80

74

Classification: :

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

In 1963

was employed by the Central

Intelligence Agency in

in the Domestic

Contacts Division.

According to

CIA personnel file,

he was assigned to the Domestic Contacts Divison in 1948..

a fitness report for the period April 1, 1963 through March 31,

cue described as

1964,

duties in the

office

maluded

"supervising

and managing a resident agency; exploitation of source's

complete intelligence potential by debriefing..; writing

reports; keeps informed on foreign situations and intelligence

requirements in order to better orient and exploit sources; and

searches for and develops new sources."

In an Agency memorandum dated April 13, 1977, contained

in George deMohrenschildt's CIA file,

set forth facts

to counter a claim which had been recently made by WAA-TV

in

that bee Hakey Oswald had been employed by the

Classificarion:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 81

Classification: _

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

CIA and that

had known Oswald. In that memorandum,

quoted as saying that, according to his records, the

last time he had talked with George deMohrenschildt was in

the fall of 1961.

said that he had no recollection of

any conversation with deMohrenschilat concerning see Harvay

Oswald. The memorandum also says that

recalls only

two occasions when he met deMohrenschildt -- first, in the

spring of 1958, to discuss the mutual interest the two

couples had in mainland China; and then in the fall of 1961

when the deMohrenschildts showed films of their Latin American

walking trip.

Other documents in deMohrenschildt's CIA file,

however, indicate more contact between

and deMohrenschildt

than was stated in the 1977 memorandum by

In a memorandum

dated May 1, 1964, from

Classification:

to the Acting Chief of the Contacts

Classified by derivation:

1-+9791

1779999

1398a

---

## Page 82

Classitication: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

Division of the CIA

stated that he had known George

deMohrenschildt and his wife since 1957, at which time

got biographical data on deMohrenschildt after a trip to

Yugoslavia for the International Cooperation Administration.

also in that 1964 memorandum that he had seen

deMohrenschildt several times

in 1958 and 1959. DeMohrenschildt'

CIA file contains

several reports submitted by deMohrenschildt

to the CIA on topics concerning Yugoslavia, including "Lack

of Interest in Communist Ideology," "National Pride/Feeling

of Superiority over Soviet Satellites," and "Effect of

Decentralization in the Oil-Industry."

DeMohrenschildt testified before the Warren Commission

that he had never been in any respect an intelligence agent.

The Committee interview with

and its review of the CIA's

Moore and deMohrenschildt files confirmed that demonrenschildt

Classification:

WASHLE

Classified by derivation:

....

---

## Page 83

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

had Rever been an American intelligence agent. In this

firing 1959-631

regard, it should be stressed that, upon returning from trips

as many as

abroad, (25foou

2E Americans annually provide information

to the CIA's Domestic Contacts Division on a nonclandestine

basis.

Such acts of cooperation should not be confused with

an actual Agency relationship.*

William G. Gaudet

William G. Gaudet was a newspaper editor who was issued

the Mexican tourist card immediately preceding bee Harey

gaulet

assettes

Oswald's on September 17, 1963. Two days later, he departed

for a three or four-week trip to Mexico and other Latin

*DeMohrenschildt's file also makes reference to an occasion

where he may have been involved in arranging a meeting between

a Haitian bank officer and a CIA or Department of Defense

official.

A Department of Defense official interviewed

by the Committee stated that the meeting was arranged by

Department of Defense officials and that deMohrenschildt's

presence (in the company of his

wife) was unanticipated. The

-Committee does-not regard this incident as evidence of any

Agency relationship, because there is no indication that any

United States governmental official actually solicited

deMohrenschildt's assistance with regard to this meeting.

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 84

Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA - controlled documents.)

American countries. This happened to coincide with Oswald's

visit to Mexico City between September 27, 1963 and

october 3, 1963. After the assassination, Gaudet advised

the FBI during an interview that he had once been employed

by the CIA. Speculation about Gaudet's possible relationship

with bee farvey Oswald was seated when it was discovered that

the Warren Commission Report contained a

list, provided by

the Mexican Government and purporting to include all individuals

who had been issued Mexican tourist cards at the same time as

Oswald, whit

that

neverthelese omitted Gaudet's name.

In

XE a

Committee deposition, Gaudet testified that his

contact with the CIA was primarily as a source of information

retracting information that he had obtained during his trips

abroads in addition, Gaudet maintained that he occasionally per-

formed errands for Agency personnel. Gaudet stated that his

Classification:

Classified by disrivation:

---

## Page 85

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

last contact with the CIA was in 1969, but that the relationship

had never been formally terminated.

The Committee reviewed Gaudet's CIA file, but found

neither any record reflecting a contact between him and the

Agency after 1961, nor any indication that he had "performed

errands" for the CIA.* A memorandum, dated January 23, 1976,

seemed to confirm the absence of any further contact after

this time:

The Domestic Collections Divison (DCD) has an inactive

file on William George Gaudet, former editor and

publisher of The Latin American Report. The file shows

that Gaudet was a source of the

DCD

Resident Office from 1948 to 1955 during which period

he provided foreign intelligence information on Latin

American political and economic conditions resulting

from his extensive travel in South and Central America

in pursuit of journalistic interests. The file further

indicates that Gaudet was a casual contact of the New

Orleans Office between 1955 and 1961 when, at various

times, he furnished fragmentary intelligence and tried

unsuccessfully to obtain financial loans from the Agency,

*The file did contain a routing indication, which the Agency

has failed to explain, to the effect that someone "agrees with

the manner in which this case is being handled."

Classification:

Dick.

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 86

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

through DCD, to support his publication. There is

no correspondence in the DCD file on Gaudet after 1961.

Gaudet could not recall whether his trip to Mexico and

other Latin American countries in 1963 involved any intelligence

related activity. He was able to testify, however, that

he

did not encounter bee Harvey Oswald, whom he had previously

seen on occasion at the New Orleans Trade Mart, during that trip

(stated ant he

tie : 16650-26266e

Gaudettwas unaware that his Mexican tourist cara"had been

Le

(issued"' immediately before Oswald's and could not recall having

2pre cess

seen Uswald on that day. Finally, Gaudet did not have any

information concerning the omission of his name from the

list published in the Warren Commission Report.

Based upon this evidence, the Committee

does

not find

a basis for concluding that Gaudet may have contacted

Lee

Harvey Oswald on behalf of the CIA. Although there is a

conflict between Gaudet's testimony and his CIA file concerning

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 87

Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

the duration of his Agency contacts as well as the performance

of errands, there is no indication from his file or

testimony that Gaudet's cooperation involved clandestine

activity.. Again, it should be stressed that the Domestic

Contacts Division, which was the Agency component that was

in touch with Gaudet, was not involved in clandestine

operations.

tile Soviet Won tra

Oswald's trip tofHelsinki

VIS

HEathensoviet union

Oswald's trip from London to Helsinki has been à point

of controversy because his passport indicates that he arrived

in Finland on October 10, 1959 and the Torni Hotel in

Helsinki had him registered as a guest on that date, but

the only direct flight from London to Helsinki landed at

11:33

p.m.d according to a memorandum signed in 1964 by

Richard Helmsti

"/ i /.f. Oswald had taken this flight, he could

assification:

Classified by derinction:

ARSE

---

## Page 88

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

not normally have cleared customs and landing formalities and

reached the Torni Hotel downtown by 2400 (midnight) on the

same day." / Further questions concerning this segment of

Oswald's trip have been raised by his ability to obtain a

Soviet entry visa within only two days of having applied for i

it on October 12, 1959.*

The Committee was unable to determine the circumstances

surrounding Oswald's trip from London to Helsinki. Louis

Hopkins, the travel agent who arranged Oswald's initial

transportation from the United States, stated that he did not

know Oswald's ultimate destination at the time that Oswald

booked his passage on the freighter Marion Lykes consequently.

Hopkins had nothing to do with the London to Helsinki leg of

*Since Oswald arrived in Helsinki on October 10, 1959, which

was a Saturday, it is assumed that his first opportunity to

apply for a visa was on Monday, the twelfth.

Classification: -

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 89

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

• Oswald's trip.. In fact, Hopkins stated that had he known

Oswald's final destination, he would have suggested sailing on

another ship that would have docked at a port more convenient

to Russia.

Hopkins indicated that Oswald did not appear to be

particularly well informed about travel to Europe. The

travel agent did not know whether Oswald had been referred to

him by anyone.

A request for any files that the CIA and Department of

Defense

may have perta

ining to Lewis Hopkins resulted in a

had

negative name trace. The Committee was unable to obtain any

additional sources of information regarding Oswald's London

to Helsinki trip.

In contrast, the relative ease with which Oswald

obtained his Soviet Union entry visa was more readily

This issue is one that was also

amenable to investigation

MASSEUNIOn

Classified by derivation:

the

---

## Page 90

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

of concern to the Warren Commission. _/ In a letter to

the CIA dated May 25, 1964, J. Lee Rankin inquired about the

apparent speed with which Oswald's Soviet visa

was issued.

Thad seen

Rankin noted that he had recently spoken with Abraham Chayes

of the state Department who contended that at the time,

maintained

Oswald received his visa to enter Russia from the Soviet

Embassy in Helsinki, at least one week ordinarily passed

between the time of a tourist's application for a visa and

the issuance of the visa. Rankin contended that if Chayes!

assessment was accurate, then Oswald's ability to obtain

his tourist visa in two days might have been

Vely significant.

The CIA responded to Rankin's request for information.

on July 31, 1964.

Richard Helms wrote to Rankin that the Soviet

Consulate in Helsinki was able to issue a transit visa (valid

for 24 hours) to U.S. businessmen within five minutes, but

Classitication:

Classified by derivation:

53 790109643

09987300

---

## Page 91

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA - controlled documents.)

if a longer stay were intended at least one week was needed

to process a visa application and arrange lodging through

Soviet Intourist. A second communciation from Helms to

Rankin, dated September. 14, 1964, added that during the 1964

tourist season, Soviet Consulates in at least some Western

European

cities issued Soviet tourist visas in from five to

seven days.

In an effort to resolve this issue, the Committee has

reviewed the CIA file on Gregory Golub, who was the Soviet

Consul in Helsinki when Oswald was issued his tourist visa.

Golub's file reveals that, in addition to his Consular

activities, he was suspected to have been an officer

of the Soviet KGB.

Two CIA dispatches from Helsinki concerning Golub

are of particular significance with regard to the time

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 92

1

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

necessary for issuance of visas to Americans for travel into

the Soviet Union. The first dispatch records that Golub

disclosed during a luncheon conversation that:

Moscow had given him the authority to give

Americans visas without prior approval from

He (Golub) stated that this would

make his job much easier, and as long as

he was convinced the American was "all right"

he could give him a visa in a matter of

(emphasis added)

The second CIA dispatch, dated October 9, 1959, one

day prior to Oswald's arrival in Helsinki, illustrates that

Golub did have the authority to issue visas without delay.

The dispatch discusses a telephone contact between Golub

and his consular counterpart"at the American Embassy in

Helsinki:

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 93

Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

•..Since that evening (September 4, 1959) Golub

has only phoned (the US consul) once and this

was on a business matter.

Iwo Americans were in

the Soviet Consulate at the time and were applying

for Soviet visas thru (sic.) Golub.

They had

previously been in the American consulate inquiring

about the possibility of obtaining a Soviet

visa in one or two days.

(The U.S. Consul)

advised them to go directly to Golub and

make their request, which they did. Golub

phoned (the U.S. Consul) to state that he

would give them their visas as soon as they

made advance Intourist reservations.

When

they did this, Golub immediately gave them

their visas...*

(emphasis added)

Thus, based upon these two factors: (1) Golub's

authority to issue visas to Americans without prior approval

from Moscow; and (2) a demonstration of this authority, as

reported in a CIA dispatch approximately one month prior

to Oswald's appearance at the Soviet Embassy, the Committee

his found that the available evidence tends to support the

conclusion that issuance of Oswald's tourist visa within

*Evidently, Oswald had made arrangements with Intourist

because upon his arrival at the Moscow railroad station on

October 16, he was met by an Intourist representative and

taken to the Hotel Berlin where he registered as a student.

Classification:.

Classified by darivation:

---

## Page 94

Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

two days after his appearance at the Soviet Consulate was not

necessarily unusual

, indictive of an Americanfüntelligenes argent,

Connection.

70.

The Oswald Photograph la the office of Naval

Intelligence Files

The Office of Naval Intelligence's beeH

wey. Oswald

file contained a photograph of Oswald, taken at the

approximate time of his Marine Corps induction

et was

contained in an envelope which had on it the language

"REC'D 14 November 1963" and "CIA 77978." These markings

raised the possibility that oswald had been in some way

associated with the CIA.

In response to a Committee inquiry, the Department of

Defense stated that the photograph had been obtained by

an October?

1196}

ONI as a result of a CIA request for two copies of the most

recent photographs of Oswald, so that an attempt could be made

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 95

59

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA -controlled documents.)

to verify his reported presence in Mexico City:

The requested

copies, however, were not made available to the CIA until

after the President's assassination.. Because of the absence

of documentation,

no explanation was given for how or when the

Office of Naval Intelligence received this particular

photograph of Oswald.

The Committee's review of CIA cable traffic confirmed

that cable number 77978, dated October 24, 1963, was in

fact a request for two copies of the Department of the Navy's

most recent photograph of. Lee

Henry (sic) Oswald.

Moreover,

review of other cable traffic corroborated the Agency's desire

to determine whether Lee Harvey Oswald had, in fact, been

in Mexico City.

Cassification:.

4.99

109y

Classified by derivation:.

Conte

---

## Page 96

Classification: -

This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

300 Harmay Oswald in Mexico esty, LEE

The Committee also considered whether Oswald's activities

and possible associations in Mexico City were indicative of

a relationship between him and the CIA. This aspect of the

Committee's investigation involved a complete review both of

alleged Oswald associates and of various CIA operations outside

of the United States.

The Committee found no evidence suggestive of any

relationship between Oswald and the CIA.

Moreover, the

Agency's investigative efforts, prior to the assassination,

regarding Oswald's presence in Mexico City served to confirm

the absence of any relationship with him. Specifically, when

apprised of his possible presence in Mexico City, the Agency

both initiated internal inquiries concerning his background

and, once informed of his Soviet experience, notified other

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

€

---

## Page 97

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

potentially interested federal agencies of his possible

contact with the Soviet embassy in Mexico City. Finally,

the avert nature and frequency of Oswald's contacts with

the Cuban and Soviet Consulates (i.e., a total of at least five

visits) also tended to indicate that Oswald was not under. the

direction of any professional intelligence officers.

Lee Hasey Oswald's Military Records

The Committee reviewed Oswald's military records because

of allegations that he had received intelligence training

and had participated in intelligence operations during his

term of service. Particular attention was given to the

charges that Oswald's early discharge from the Marine Corps

was designed to serve as a cover for an intelligence

assignment and that his records reflected neither his true

security clearance nor a substantial period of service in

Taivan.

These allegations were considered relevant to the

Classification:

pay apa pas passa.

Classified by derivation:

di...

---

## Page 98

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

question of whether Oswald had been performing intelligence

assignments for military intelligence as well as to the

issue of Oswald's possible association with the CIA.

Oswald's Marine Corps records bore no indication that

he had ever received any intelligence training or performed

on any intelligence assignments during his term of service.

As a Marine sering in Atsugi, Japan, Oswald had a security

clearance of confidential and never received a higher classifi-

cation. Based upon the Warren Commission testimony of John

E. Donavan, the officer who had been in charge of Oswald's

at me El Toro Marine base in Calfornial

crew that all personnel working in the radar center were

required to have a minimum security clearance of secret, the

allegation has been made that the security clearance of

confidential in Oswald's records is inaccurate. This

allegation, however, was refuted by a review of files belonging

Classification:

... .

Clussified by derivation:

---

## Page 99

including 93)

wait

that were.

Classification:

time This form is to be used for material extracted

studied

Cavanmistian from ClA- controlled documents.)

winnen

either in japan on Calfinia,

to four enlisted men who had worked with Oswald; each of them

due!

had a security clearance of confidential.*

indiated that had has not spent

Oswald's military records, also dispelled the allegation

(while overicast

that he had served fer

fine. if anti

a substantial pertod in Taiwan.

These

(Except for a S'le monte phial of semine in the

phillipoint

records state that'swald served in Japan from September 12,

1957 until November 2, 1958.

Department of Defense records,

however, do indicate that MAG (Marine Air Group) 11, Oswald's unit,

was

deployed for Taiwan on September 16, 1958 and remained in

that area until April 1959, but an examination of the MAG 11

wat ensigned at that time

unit diaries indicated that Oswald had remained in Japan as

part of a rear echelon

#oswala's records also state that on

Tunit

5-2r B

October 6, 1958 he was transferred within MAG 1l to a

• Headquarters and Maintenance Squadron subunit in Atsugi,

Japan. The next week he reportedly spent in the Atsugi

*John E. Donavan, Oswald's immediate commanding officer, did

have a

security clearance of secret.

Foreman

• Fini Heptende is antit

Classification:

• Fluttie in

1 Classified by derivstion:.

---

## Page 100

It has been stated that Order Clerined

have treat do served in Tries, biel

the committee's wien of his

f./ The term ren read echolar wit

the mat, on its face, necenly

such the sit do asing court

to this fated

service with the main cuit in Taiwan,

But the Dented of defens he spicely

it stated that?

Oscald did not seil

prim Yokouke, Jupon on September 19 It.

He remaied absard... NAt Atsugi as pers

of the MAG-" rear echelon:"

#this is contry to itateme ith sited to

Listen Chanted Rhode by Edged V. Epste a

'his

fit to deed taint of lin testy comile alice anting the

jali did amated

the top with ye

6d tradi

---

## Page 101

sired upon a

direct eximinetion

Classificarion:

This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

us wal

d, avie-

he's won

Station Hospital. On November 2, 1958, Oswald left Japan

militan

for duty in the United States.

it dos not appear

Accordingly, there is no indication in Oswald's

military records that he had spent any time in Taiwan. This

finding is contrary to that of the Warren Commission that

oswald arrived with his unit in Taiwan on September 30, 195g,

and reunined 442r8 for =5rgbnf pissonerat lee than

d t226

but the Cormission's analysis apparently was made without access

to the unit diaries of MAG 11.*

Over

Finally, with one exception, the circumstances surrounding

Oswald's rapid discharge from the military do not appear to have

been unusual. Oswald was obligated to service on active duty

until December 7, 1959, but he applied for a hardship discharge

on August 17, 1958 and two weeks later the application

*Similarly, a message sent on November 4, 1959 from the Chief

of Naval Operations concerning Oswald, which states that he

had "served with Marine Air Control Squadrons in Japan and

Taiwan" may have been issued without checking unit diaries

which indicated that Oswald had not been so deployed.

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 102

Moresca;

d Findey, even if Orals, in fad, did made.

the trip with his unit to taiwan, it is it

ladiest it clean that any lack service there we

nat for a substantial time perisd. The

unit arrived at Atlug do Septender 20,1953,

and to a da 2, 1908 died hi ente

to of from dopen to complete his tout?

duty in the United State, plaine

---

## Page 103

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

fischarge

was approved.* It appears, however, that Oswald's

application was processed so expeditiously because it was

accompanied(with

all of the necessary documentation.

In response to a committee inquiry, the Department

of Defense has stated that "to

a large extent, the time

involved in processing depended on how well the individual

member had prepared the documentation needed for consideration

of his or her case."

A review of Oswald's case indicates

that his initiatin

Gauchers.

application

was accompanied by all of the

That prepare t

it the American ped toast

requisite documentation. Oswald had met the preliminary

requirements of having made a voluntary contribution to the

hardship dependent and of applying for a dependent's quarters

*By September 4, 1959, Oswald had been informed that he would be

discharged on September 11, 1959. This explains why he was

able to tell passport officials on that day that he expectec

to depart the United

States on September 21, 1959.

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

!

---

## Page 104

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extrected

Even though

from ClA- controlled documents.)

all of the smarting affidaits for the quarters alletend had net been

salmitted at the tiane

that the hard disg palentine wo

fled, the encortements on the application.

allotment to alleviate the hardship. His amalicasion indicated,

that thesp measures had been taken;

and was accompanied by

two letters and two affidavits attesting to Marguerite

kevieming

Oswald's inability to support herself.

Documents provided to the Committee by the American Red

Cross indicate that he sought

theiD assistance regarding this

matter, and therefore was probably well advised on the requisite

documentation to support his claim. Indeed, Red Cross officials

interviewed Marguerite Oswald, and concluded that she "could

not be considered employable from an emotional standpoint." .

The Fort Worth Red Cross Office indicated a quarters allotment

was necessary for Marguerite Oswald, rather than a hardship

discharge for Lee, and assisted her in the preparation of

the necessary application documents.

NiCH

hoswald Hevertheless, informed the Red Cross office in

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

4302

---

## Page 105

Classificarion:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

El Toro, California, where he was then stationed, that he

desired to apply for a hardship discharge.

The unusual aspect

of Oswald's discharge application was that, technically his

requisite application for a quarters allowance for his mother

should have been disallowed because Marguerite's dependency

. affidavit stated that Oswald had not contributed any

money to

her during the preceding year.

No. #

Nevertheless,

the first officer to review Oswald's

application noted in his endoresment, dated. August 19, 1959,

that "La/ genuine hardship exists in this case, and in my

opinion approval of the /quarters? allotment will not

sufficiently alleviate this situation.

In addition,

five

other officers endorsed Oswald's application. The

*This quotation suggests the possibility that applications for

quarters allotments and hardship discharges are considered

independently of one another.

Cessitication:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 106

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

Committee was able to contact three of the

endorsing

officers; two had no memory of the event,_

/ and one could not

recall any details. —

The Committee considers their absence

of memory to be indicative of the Oswald case having been

handled in a routine manner.

Based upon this evidence, the Committee was not able

to discern any unusual discrepancies or features in Oswald's

military record.

23. Beatarway oswald's Military Intelligence pile fi

On November 22, 1963, soon after the assassination, Lt.

Col. Robert E. Jones, Operations Officer of the U.S. Army's

112th Military Intelligence Group (MIG), Fort Sam Houston,

San Antonio, Texas, contacted the FBI offices in San Antonio

and Dallas and gave those offices detailed information concerning

Oswald and A.J. Hidell, his;alleged alias.

Classificarion:

This information

Ciossilied by derivation:

---

## Page 107

19

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

suggested the existence of a Military Intelligence file on

Oswald, and raised the possibility that he had intelligence

associations of some kind. The Committee's investigation,

however, revealed that military intelligence officials had

opened a file on Oswald because he was perceived as a possible

counterintelligence threat.

Robert E. Jones testified before the Committee that in

June of 1963 he had been serving as Operations Officer of the

112th Military Intelligence Group at Fort Sam Houston, Texas.*

Under the Group's control were seven regions encompassing five

states:

Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas, New Mexico, and Oklahoma.

Jones was directly responsible for counterintelligence operations,

background investigations, domestic intelligence, and any

*In his testimony, Jones also clarified and corrected the

errors

that appeared in communications that were generated as

a result of the activities of his military intelligence

unit.

Classification:

Classified by darivation:

227

-7.57

---

## Page 108

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

special operations in this five-state area. He believes

that

Oswald first came to his attention in mid-1963 through information

provided to the 112th MIG by the New Orleans. Police Department

to the effect that Oswald had been arrested there in connection

with Fair Play for Cuba Committee activities.

Has a result of

this information, the 112th Military Intelligence Group took

an interest in Oswald as a possible

counterintelligence

threat. The Group collected information from local agencies

and the military central records facility, and opened a file

under the names Lee Harvey Oswald and A. J. Hidell. Placed

in this file were documents and newspaper articles on such

topics as Oswald's defection to the Soviet Union, his travels

there, his marriage to a Russian national, his return to the

United States, and his pro-Cuba activities in New Orleans.

Classification:.

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 109

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

Jones related that on November 22, 1963, while in his

quarters at Fort Sam Houston, he heard about the assassination

of President Kennedy. Returning immediately to his office, he

contacted MIG personnel in Dallas and instructed them to

intensify their liaisons with federal, state,

and local

agencies and to report back any

information obtained.

Early

that afternoon, he received

a telephone call from Dallas

advising that an A.J. Hidell had been arrested or had come to

the attention of law enforcement authorities.

Jones checked

the MIG indices, which indicated that there was a file on Lee

Harvey Oswald, also known by the name A.J. Hidell. Pulling the

file, he telephoned the local FBI office in San Antonio to

notify the FBI that he had some information. He soon was in

telephonic contact with the Dallas FBI Office, to which he

summarized the documents in the file.

Classification:.

He believes that one

Classified by derivation:

220009

SCRAT

NET

---

## Page 110

lur

Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

person with whom he would have spoken was FBI Special Agent

in Charge J. Gordon Shanklin. He may have talked with the

Dallas FBI office more than one time that day•

Jones testified that his last activity with regard

to the Kennedy assassination was to write an "after action":

reporty which)sunmarized the actions he had taken, the people

"that

he had notified,

/and the times of notification. In addition,

Jones believes

that this "after action" report included

information obtained from reports filed by the eight to

twelve Military Intelligence agents who performed liaison

functions with the Secret Service in Dallas on the day of the

assassination. This "after action" report was then maintained

in the Oswald file. Jones did not contact, nor was he

contacted by, any other law enforcement or intelligence agencies

concerning information which he could provide on Oswald. To

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

13

---

## Page 111

đươn

103

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

Jones' knowledge, neither the FBI nor any law enforcement agency

ever requested a copy of the Military Intelligence file on

Oswald.

To his surprise, neither the FBI, Secret Service, CIA

nor Warren Commission ever interviewed him. No one ever

directed him to withhold any information; on the other hand,

he never came forward and offered anyone further information

relevant to the assassination investigation because he

"felt that the information that hef had provided was

sufficient and...a matter of record..."

Communications

Jones' contact with the FBI office in San Antonio is

reflected in a teletype message sent at 4:25 p.m. on

November 22, 1963, from that FBI office to the FBI Director

and

the Special Agent in Charge in Dallas.

Classification:

Classifiad by derivation:

---

## Page 112

vy

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

The Conmittee found Jones' testimony to be very credible.

His statements concerning the contents of the Oswald file

We consistent with FBI communications that were generated as

a result of the information which he initially provided.

Access to Oswald's Military Intelligence file, which the

Department of Defense never gave to the Warren Commission, was

not possible because the Department of Defense had destroyed

the file as part of a general program aimed at eliminating all

of its files pertaining to nonmilitary personnel. . In

response to a Committee inquiry, the Department of Defense

gave the following explanation for the file's destruction:

1. Dossier AB 652876, OSWALD, Lee Harvey, was

identified for deletion from IRR (Intelligence

Records and Reports) holdings on Julian date

73060 (1 March 1973) as stamped on the micro-

filmed

dossier cover.

It is not possible to

determine the actual date when physical

destruction was accomplished, but is credibly

surmised

that the destruction was accomplished

within a period not greater than sixty days

following the identification for deletion.

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 113

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

Evidence such as the type of deletion record

available, the individual clerk involved in

the identification, and the projects in progress

at the time of deletion, all indicate the dossier

deletion resulted from the implementation of a

Department of the Army, Adjutant Genexal letter

dated I June 1971, subject: Acquisition of

Information Concerning Persons and Organizations

not Affiliated with the Department of Defense (DOD)

(Incl 1).

Basically, the letter called for the

elimination of files on non-DOD affiliated

persons and organizations.

2. It is not possible to determine who accomplished

the actual physical destruction of the dossier.

The individual identifying the dossier for deletion

can be determined from

the clerk number appearing

on the available deletion record. The number

indicates that Lyndall E. Harp was the identifying

clerk.

Harp was an employee of the IRR from 1969

until late 1973, at which time she transferred

to the Defense Investigative Service, Fort Holabird,

Maryland, where she is still a civil service

employee.

The individual ordering the destruction

or deletion cannot be determined.

However, available

evidence indicates that the dossier was identified

for deletion under a set of criteria applied by

IRR clerks to all files.

The basis for these

criteria were established in the l June 1971 letter.

There is no indication that the dossier was specifically

identified for review or deletion.

All evidence

shows that the file was reviewed

as part of a

generally applied program to eliminate any dossier

concerning persons not affiliated with DOD.

3. The exact material contained in the dossier

cannot be determined at this time.

However,

discussions with all available persons who recall

seeing the dossier reveal that it most probably

included:

newspaper clippings relating to pro-

Cuban activities of Oswald, several Federal

Bureau of Investigation reports, and possibly

some Army counterintelligence reports.

None of

the persons indicated

that they remember any

Classification: -

/ Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 114

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

significant information in the dossier.. It should

be noted here that the Army was not asked to

investigate the assassination. Consequently, any

Army derived information was turned over to the

appropriate civil authority.

4.

At the time of the destruction of the Oswald

dossier, IRR was operating under the records

disposal authority contained in the DOD Memorandum

to Secretaries of the Military Departments, OASD (A) .

9 February 1972, subject:

Records Disposal

Authority (Incl

National

2).

The memorandum forwards

Archivist disposal criteria which is

similar in nature to the requirements outlined

in the 1 June 1971 instructions..

It was not

until 1975 that the Archivist changed the criteria

to ensure non-destruction of investigative records

that may be of historical value.

Upon receipt of this information, the Committee

orally requested the destruction order relating to the file

on Oswald. In a letter dated September 13, 1978, the General

Counsel of the Department of the Army replied that no such

order existed:

Army regulations do not require any type of

specific order before intelligence files can be

destroyed, and none was prepared in connection

with the destruction of the Oswald file.

As a rule,

investigative information on persons not directly

affiliated with the Defense Department can be retained

in Army files only for short periods of time and in

carefully regulated circumstances. The Oswald file

Classifieation:.

Classified by derivation:

1..

---

## Page 115

sister

Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.

was destroyed routinely in accordance with normal

files management procedures, as are thousands of

intelligence files annually.

The Committee

finds this "routine" destruction of the

Oswald file extremely troublesome, especially when viewed in

light of the Department of Defense's failure to make this file

available to the Warren Commission. Despite the credibility

of Jones' testimony, without access to this file the question

of Oswald's possible affiliation with military intelligence

cannot be fully resolved. The absence of this file, however,

no bearing upon the Committee's conclusion concerning

the absence of any relationship between Lee Harvey Oswald.

and the CIA.

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

=.

---

## Page 116

...........

........

. ....----

-en..e.n.......

The ayinal poger of thase

edacted er ITEM S-I

are missing: Aridocte

ige pagen an relate.

HRG

(PL)

13 JAN 95

..........----.---.. ......................................

. .-. ...

-..:...

--- - ... ..-

....

--..... .

---

