# 180-10142-10318

## Page 1

180-10142-10318

150124

Folder 3

-¿CRETI

Personnel File

summary

Leslie Wirelman

submitted 3-7-28

Artime, Bueza manuel.

The file contains one document which is a memo

of gral commitment to the chief of the Special Affairs Staff

ula contract approung officer from chief uf miami statur

Signed by Frederick J. Inghurst - (field contracting officer)

Artime was hirec under an oral contract. tur use under

on "actrun indicator". Eltectrue date: Febi, 1963, to conterive

indefinitely: $400/ murth to be charged to station overned

SECRET

11110123

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Fieproduce

180-10142-10318

---

## Page 2

Hunt, Everette Howard Jr.

SECRET, summary

suomitted

3/10778

4 July 1965-19 June 1979

July 4,1965 - letter of contract to

Employs Hunt as a contract Employee.

Pay $19,880 /уг.

2yr. contract.

a = memo tur

OGG fam Norman Block re Hunt-Retention

of Royaltres by a Cuntract Employee. Dated Aug 3,1965.

Hunt will develup cover as a writer.

August 1a, 1965 respunse from Block - Hunt should be entitled

to keep royalties. They have been aduised that Hunt's

cover dues not include the role of a writer. His cover will be

3- 8 Nou 1965 memo for Deputy Directer of Suppurt, Subj: Request

Er exceptiun

to provision of FR 45-106 = Hunt

Hunt is described as a "contract employee assigned to the

Jun a sensitrue assignment.

On 12 sept 65, karamessines appauvad 75/25 90 1993701545

excess allowable costs

4- memo fur mr.kuhn, subect General Gaynor's Recollections

from Edward FiSayle dated l Feb 1924.

Gaynor the become aware of Hunts spy books and raised the issue

•a fret on saveral out un eaten ne receives te

your stinking

---

## Page 3

z= Hunt

SECRET

belleue that Helms destred to improve the image of the

intelligence profession and the Agency and that Hunt's books

were part of the program to dose, He stated that he was

never told outright that this was the case, but the responsed

he recerued lead him to believe this was the case.

He suggested a people who might be able to assut in

dearing issue: Ray Rosa and walter pforzheimer, both of

whom were involved in the "'mage" materials.

He statel that pforzheimer

seemed to be aware of all the

details- on an up to date basis - of Hunt's departure

from the Agency to join the public relations firm, to the

degree that ben. Gaynur garned the bellef that Hunt was

merely moving his desk outside the building, but being

paid by the same source as defure.

miss Ethel mendoza also followed the case. Also

Anita Potocki - of CIA staff. (no friend of Hunt)

1111012

5 memo fur Steven L. Kuhn from Lawrences.

•Howe, dated

6 Feb 1914. le natonumend Dauld st. John books. Interulewen

walter pforzhermer, "

in an effort to determine if mr. Hunt had

acted in any capacity in cooperation with founter Intelligence

Operations. Recalled that after identifying Hunt as author of

On Hazardous duty, he called taramessines winu reacted asif

"he had uncovered a sensitive matter of senior officer concern.

Helms called and tuld e that

"for christ sake walter, this is

the first book to come along and say something gouc

about the agency." "Why not leaves fRe pocdamn thing a lone

---

## Page 4

3

SECRET

No indication that books were ever submitted fur reurew.

Hunt

departed wass Aug 5,1965

Arrived madrid Aug 16, 1965

draveled to wash Jan 5, 19605

returned to madria 1-1966

al Feb 1974 memotor recura subj: watergate --Frank A. O'Mall

repurts interview with frank A d'malley who retired;tromthe

Agency in June of 1972.. Was an officer in the External

Employment Assistance Branch, Retirement, Actruities Druision

of the oftichad of Personnel. Function: to assist persunnel

retiring from Agency in finding a post-retirement sub.

o'malley was instrumental in placing

Hunt in the Robert

R. Mullen P.R, form.

O'Malley had prevously served with the

1111013-

dealing@tunding.of

achornes of tent

projects.famillar@the

while lunt funchoned on the

Heims was listed as a character reference on Hunts resume

"'malley recalled a request frum Hunt

for anindivichal

having skills in the area of

Thomac C. Amato was provided to mr. Itunt. -O'Malley believes

Amato aid not accep employmant

SECRET

---

## Page 5

4

SECRET

mem tur

Director. of FBI. from Charles wikane i subject El Hur.

aHn: Leon f Schwartz

Dated oct 29, 1974

re Rever of record sources to ascertain Huntis whereabouts

during perrud 20 Nou 1963 through 24 Now 1963.

Leave records reflect that for the y weel pay period

ending a3 nou 1903 Mr. Hunt took a tobal of il hours sick

leave and no annual leave. In the following 4 week pay

period, he took 3 hours sick leave and a7 hours annual

leave. We are unable to identify the dates on which the

aboue sick and annual leave were taken. The time and

attendance records for the pay periods in question were

routinely destroyed three years after they were audited.

Travel records reflect that mr.tunt conducted no

official trauel during the month of Nou, 1963.

nem o for record; suby's "sam Jafle Inquiry-Hunt and sturgus"

20 sept 1924- from SD. Breckon ridge

11110127

Hunt's travel record shows ufficial travel in September, .

Octuber and december, but none in November'; all this

travel was to new work. "John Richards states that we

already know, as a result of responses to previous requests, that we

have no records on sturgis that would show smilar information,

ne was not an Agency emplogee."

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SCORET

memo fur Deputy Directer for Administration

from Director of Security

subj.:E.H.ltunt

Date a3 oct 1924.

"Mr. Sturgis was not assoclated with the Agency

in any manner in November 1963.

"The FoS Liaison officer I Mr. Leun F. Schwartz)

aduised that mr. Hunt was interulewed on 17 Oct 197y

and mr. Hunt aduised at that timie that he had

learned of the assassination of firmer prescent

Kennedy on his car radio while he was ina leave

status in the washington D.c. area.

memo re Eult-Hunt, 20 Dec 1973, Frum S.1. Breckinridge.

Fallof 1964-Hunt was alleged to have been engaged in

surveillance

acturtes of Barry Goldwater.".Our files showed

Hunt was in the do Divistunt Burns was not familiar with

that title) and in august 1464 was assigned to the

E2/15-138 one ron Chies, as clusion it now?

I suggested that son GiGsaires, Deputy

might bein

apositiun to grue a felo groups

on what

Hunt was

supposed to be doing then.

Fig coleman was

on the lest when tunt assignment to laus oas

brought up in 1964, & when Hunt went to the field in 1965.

Res

---

## Page 7

13-

3)

-6-

14 June 197a

IG File 12, tab a

SECRET.

Hunt served with the Oss during wws. Employed by cIA from

November 1949 until his voluntary retirement on 30 April 1970

1471- Hund served as an adulsor to pres. Nixon in relation to his trip

to china. subject is of current interest to the

I staff.

served in us nauy - 1941-42

One ye @ Time, Inc.

entered Air Force -oss

Served in the Far East 1946.

may 1948-Feb 1949= employed by the economici

cooperation Administration, serving in Paris, France,

as an alde to tuarell Harriman.

DeL 1950 - Hunt was assigned as

chiefsti

until August 1953.

June, 1954 until Feb. 1957.

Then

COS

- untul carly 1960

Returned to us in June 1960

assigned to

on Boogalt Bay of Ags.

Nou

1961- subject was reassigned to DoP

staff

Jan 196a - to the office of the Chiet /

July 1962- transferred to the DODS, Rexearch $

Publicatien Section in D.C.

July 1964-DODS

110123

Feb

1965 - Office of DOP/ Operations Group

Is June 65 - Sept 66 1

Sept66-

to 30 Aprol 20110 RPlas Chief of European

---

## Page 8

- 7-

SECRET

July 1970- reevaluation of tunt was conducted by os

ruly 19,1971- reported that Hunt had. joined the

While Howe statt as a consultant to mixun re uisit to Chi

11 - 6-70 - Hunt was granted

for use byl

with Robert R. mullen

and company, a pre firin

In quiry of thel

Jon 19 June 1972

revealed that this is the current relationship.

Subject's security file reflects that

has, in the

past been of operational interest to

mr. James Angleton

Chief (I staff/ODP in connection with an operational

matter. Ca

79-1922-

11110133

SECRET

---

## Page 9

SECRET

blizeman

3/3/78

Summary

3-13-78

Norman Roman os

35d Agency material:

I FBI rpt datec 20 Oct 1960

ai-FBI. rpt dated 14 Sept 1960

File: 97-4030

miam ; Field uff.-.

File miams

97-213

3- FBI 1pt. dated 6/1/60

manni 92-251- Araura

Title "Albert Juan

moya

memo for record, dated 25 April 1975-

• general info -

I- late 1959, Rothman was manaying a notel in miam.

Beach, Fla which reportedly was owned by ex-cuban

President Batista, through Batista's brother-in-law, Roberto

Fernandez miranda.

11110133

SECHET

---

## Page 10

SECRET

michaes meLaney

05

prevoly reviewed sy Patricia urs & Junethen

BlasEmes •

on 2/a3178

1111013i

SECRET

---

## Page 11

SECRET

Ale summary.-

3-13-78

John martino

OS

I page- 8 Jan 196a

ease 36,973 - Drexel Gibsur

must of page cleleted.)

"6, When Gibson was transferred to la cabana he

found only une other us. citizen there, a retired

Us, army officer named John martino, martino, belleved te

de from Miami, Florida., went to Cuba ta early 1960, for

business reasons. and was picked up at the air purt in Havana

arrival, He was held incommunicado for 14 months at

El Principe and is now

ser wing a 14 year sentence at

La laband on charges of being the head of the "White

Rose" anti-castro organization, martno is desparately all

with kidney and liver arments and receives no. medical care.

His persore physical condition has kept him from being

transtersedo to the Isle of Pines.

hand written. from John martinuts name" Diug Addict!

11110132

SECRE

---

## Page 12

SECRET

summar 13178

written

Dino Cellini

OS

35d Agency-

Dept of State: Telegram from Havana to Sec.of State

# 1513 (Control 4333) : 615/59 with attachments the 1402

(controd 13747)-5121159;

Telegram (memo of conversation) # 1335

Telegram to Havana #951

EMBTEL 140%

5/27/59 and

5/a2/59

one memo.

1 To Deputy Chief

, Security Researchstaff from Jerry

G. Brown. Subj: Edward k. muss

dated

14 May 1973

from Jerry G. Brown.

re varna-moss-cellini connections.

(see varona simmary.)

11110134

SECUST

---

## Page 13

SECRET

summary

written

3/13/28

3

Edward Browder os

DOS

aasune 1917 poo: Amorallo, Texas

1-office.memirandom. 1954

"Sabatino, Edward Browder aka Edward Browder

us citizen burg in mexico Burn abuut 1917

address: Hotel monte Cassino, Mex. City.

a- ottue mem

1954-

To chief os/SI Desk FromiSE, SSD

subject; Broweder, Edward akc Edward Browder Sabatino

bou salerno, PoB/success, has received a request

fur expeditious inquiry to develop info concerning

subyect.:.

3-. memo fur SAC. District Field offle from Robert H.

Cunningham , Subs: Edward Browder

29 May 1954

=..cunfurms verbal assignment of this case to your

offce on a7 may 1954 with a request that

expedite checks at dept of state be conducted un

subject.

"Report results. verbally

yo memo fur

chiçt, special securaty diu From 8P. Holcomb

attention

J Subj: National Agency Name

Checks un Edward Browder Sabatino -pesuccess.

a7 may 1954.

11110135

"In uperational support uf Project pesuccess, it is

requestect that your attice. instate priority national ayency

SulkeT name chest, with special emphass. in info developed

naturalization, and Dept ut State ur

---

## Page 14

-SECRET

Browder (contineed)

5- bank page. @ ''SUBJECT: Sabatino, touis

Repurtedly an associete of Edward Browder"

6- memo, 28 may 1954,. ter. Deputy Chref SiD from

chief, Operations Branch (Dauld E. Harlon) sub-Browd.

GIST: WH (pBsuccess) requests intormation regarcing

subect and une Lous sabatino

Detarls: in the subject is of interest to wH. division

(pB success) and has requested this office to

conduct certain: inquiries

a- Because of the sensatruity of this case, it is

requested that the files of the FBI be

checked through mr. Papich , concerning the

subject and. Louis sabatino, "

7 Covert Name Check Report ar May 1954

8. Passport Fle Check 22 May 1954-

a unidentted doeument - "The subject case, whole still

pending, was cancelled by request of the Chref, Operations

Project pBsuccess.....

11110135

10.-: 3rd Agency- RBI: Into dated 1954l references numerous

previons. ipts re Browder cltde. 194-1953)

1'- Letter to. Dr/CIA frum FBI. (notincluded- BULKY)

1a- Refer to: 3rd Agency

-

1A CSI re Captarn loss euca

Lir dated Flitts a

SEGRET

---

## Page 15

3:

SEGRET

Edward Brouder

trom 5.H. Spencer (u. Ltd. Santago, Chrle to

capt. Ross Rudd. Springfield, mess. Artenz).

a-5BIreet dated 11/9/59 miami 105-1774

(Burean 105- 7a805) Title: Paul Jus: Hughes.

11110137

SECTET

---

## Page 16

unitenduse -

there is a restricted cHlon folder -

11110133

---

## Page 17

y SECRET :

@ Informatión covering 1949-31 Dec 1959

SECRET

---

