# 180-10096-10406

## Page 1

180-10096-10406

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/14/20

AGENCY :

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10096-10406

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

009539

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: PALMER, BETSY.

TO :

THE DIRECTOR

TITLE:

DATE: 06/26/1978

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

FBI FILES.

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES.

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM.

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: Box 175. 175-6.

v9.1

HH 50955

DocId: 32256848

Page

1

---

## Page 2

MEMORANDUM FOR THE DIRECTOR

FROM: BETSY PALMER

DATE: June 26, 1978

SUBJECT: FBI File Review - Evelio Duque Miyar

009539

On June 21, 1978, I reviewed subject file at the FBI.

A synopsis

of the

pertinent material in the one volume

file are outlined below.

1. # 105-102448-5

October 2, 1961

Report from Chicaco

Subject: Ejercito Cubano Anti-Comunista (ECA)

2 .

On September 10, 1961, Evelio Duque Miyar was

in

Chicago for a meeting held at Zuma Hall which

was

attended by over 200 persons. The purpose of the

meeting was to unite various

anti-Castro groups in

the Chicago area..

Dugue had previously sent two

other ECA members who were unsuccessful.

The ECA

was to supplant the MDC and the Chicago group was

to be headed by Jose cardoso.

#105-102448

February 27, 1968

Subject:

Substantive Error Write-Up

Investigation based on information furnished to the

Detroit office on 6/26/67 by John Burkman, a gun

dealer in Northville, Michigan.

Burkman advised

he had been in touch

a few years ago with Jose Cardoza

(Cardosa) who wanted

to buy guns.

A third Person

(protected informant) was also present. Informant

told Burkman they were planning querilla-type

activity

against Castro.

Cardosa said he had been visited

by the "Duque"

group regarding purchase of arms.

Cardosa could not locate any arms as all sources

indicated they needed U.S. approval.

Cardosa was allegedly expelled from ECA in 1963. In

an 11/7/62 interview, he admitted contacting Burkman

and that he made arrangements to obtain 1,200 blasting

caps on behalf of an anti-Castro organization in

1962.

NW 50955 DocId: 32256848 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FBI File Review

Evelio Duque Miyar

June 26, 1978

Page 2

In a 1/19/67 interview, Duque stated that in the

summer of 1965, Customs siezed arms belonging to

ECA which Duque had hoped to infiltrate into Cuba.

On 12/4/67, Miami advised that Ovidio Kaba, Hialeah,

Florida, visited Luis Egoscue in Chicago on 10/15/67.

Egoscue

indicated a Miami Cuban had recently visited

Chicago to buy $85,000 worth of equipment (arms and

ammunition).

Egoscue allegedly had

not completed

the deal because arms might be furnished to "Black

people."

Egoscue is a business partner of Jose Seara.

Kaba says Seara is a member of "Duque" organization.

3. CIA deletion, 2 pages, dated 6/13/63

Bufile #

105-102448, Serial 55

4.

#105-102448-60

June 28, 1963

Report from Miami

Subject: ECA

One and one-half pages of third agency deletions.

Duque contacted on 6/21/63 and advised he was

con

tinuing as leader of ECA and uses his apartment at

438½ S.W. 3rd Street, Miami, as headquarters.

He

denied

that he and the ECA were contemplating any

military operation against Cuba regime or Soviet

shipping in Cuban waters. Says he continues his

effort to raise money to supply arms to ECA members

in Cuba.

Orlando Bosch is general coordinator of Duque's

organization and advised on 6/23/63 that to the best

of

his knowledge, Duque was not planning any raids

against Cuba or any shipping in Cuban waters.

said INS had

served Duque with a "Notice of Prevention

of Departure" which limited him to travel within Dade

County, Florida.

Informant states on 6/19/63 that a representative of

Dugue met with a representative of Santos Trafficante

saying Duque wished to purchase rockets, explosives

and detonators. Duque allegedly has received $25,000

from Carlos Prio Socarras for this purpose.

Trafficante

NW 50955 DocId: 32256848 Page 3

---

## Page 4

"ra"

FBI File Review

Evelio Duque Miyar

June 26, 1978

Page 3

representative said he could get equipment but had to

check on authenticity of Duque's plans and allegations

that Prio had given the money. If items check out to

Trafficant's satisfaction, material will be obtained

and furnished to Dugue.

5.

CIA deletion - 3 pages, dated

7/13/63

Bufile #105-102448, Serial 68:

6.

7.

8.

#105-102448-74

October 29, 1963

Report from Miami - William Mayo Drew, JI.

Subject: ECA

On October 18, 1963, Orlando Bosch advised ECA no

longer functioning and that Duque no longer has any

support among the Cuban exile population.

A check

on his neighborhood indicates he moved and left no

forwarding address.

Cuban Refugee Assistance records

of 10/18/63 reflect that Duque had voluntarily dis-

continued his receipt of assistance 10/14763.

-Page missing."

#105-102448-79

February 19, 1964

Report from Miami - William Mayo Drew, JI.

Subject: ECA

Duque located on January 31, 1964 at 3144 N.W. 106th

Street, Miami and indicated

ECA does not have sufficient

finances to maintain an office. No meetings are being

held due to lack of any program of activity.

Also

indicated he and Orlando Bosch had split their

relationship.

#105-102128-22 ₽ 1

June 14, 1963

Memo to

Director from SAC, Miami

Subject: Rafael Santos Inclan y Argudin

Felipe Luis Sarrain Gonzales

Duque states that in November 1962, Inclan and

another man -- a young Cuban student -- came to see

Dugue and in the presence of Marcelino Garcia Jefe

de Direccion of ECAFE, Inclan stated he had a plan

of action against Castro and needed a machine gun:

and bazookas.

Inclan says he has $5,000 collected

mostly in Washington, D. C. and a Cuban doctor (Juncos)

in Los Angeles, California has also contributed.

Duque refused to help Inclan, claiming the plan

was

not a secret.

HW 50955 DooId:32256848 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FBI File Review

Evelio Duque Miyar

June 26, 1978

Page 4

9.

CIA deletion, 3 pages, dated March 6, 1963

Bufile

#105-102128,

Serial 23

10. INS deletion, 3 pages, no date

Subject:

Cuban Raiders Ordered Not to Depart

Bufile

: #109-584-3869

11.

CIA deletion, 3 pages, dated June 11, 1964

Subject: Possible Plan

to be Used by the MIRR

In Bombing

a Merchant Vessel Trading

With Cuba.

TDCSDB-3/661/711

* Missing page of document #105-102448-74 (Item 6 of this

review)

requested on June 26, 1978, and information

is as follows:

Orlando Bosch, formerly General Coordinator of ECA,

advised on 10/18/63 that ECA no longer was function-

ing.

He said Duque's supporters (about 20 in

number) have left him and aligned themselves to

other anti-Castro organizations.

Bosch said Dugue

proved himself completely inadequate and incompetent

as a leader and Duque was no longer active in anti-

Castro endeavors.

NH 50955

DocId: 32256848

Page

5

---

