# 180-10145-10353

## Page 1

180-10145-10353

TO:

TRANSMITTAL AND DOCUMENT RECEIPT

Box 55 Foller 1

FROM:

Office of Legislative .Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

ROOm 7 D 35

Washington, D.C. 20505

10ISE OF RSPREJEINATIVES

THE DOCUMENYS LISTEO HERZON ARE FORWARDEO FOR:

INFORMATION

ACTION

CONTROL NUMBER

DOC. DATE

RETENIION

SUBJECT (Unclanniliod prelerred)

LOAN

CLASS.

ASCA

17bê 18 AUG 28

TIO PEQUESTS FROM BLAKEY ON THE KENNEDY

ASSASSIMATICHI. 0003778 ¾ 0C03777

22 AJS 73

NOTES OF PATRICIA ORR

11111595-771715C0

S

SIGNATURE (ochonalengina receipo al abore docements)

RECEIPT

RETORN TO

PATE DE DICCINY

TE 37728

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

19601

OFFICE OF LFGISLATIVE COUNSEL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCI

ROOM 7 D 35

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

1 - WHITE, RETURA COPY

2 - PINX, AUUNESSER MOLO

BACI

3 - CANARY, OLE HOLO BACK

no horte del

10145-10353

---

## Page 2

V.M.ORR

7ugs

BERNARD

201333'

1959-1975

OS/SAG 4E13

L. BARKER

SEOVET

8/22/78

CIA HAS NO OUECTIONTO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

FEEL EASE OF THIS DOGUMENT

. as rebadas

UFGA

25825

Aug 6, 1966

AMCLATTER -1 was terminated effective 7/31/66 . Termination

carried out in an amicable manner,

AMCLATTER-1 to take job

in Chicago. Concerned re: citizenship. six year association

with JMWAVE. Received six weeks basic tradecraft course

in New York in Sept. 1964. Started work in 1960 for JMWAVE as

Prinical Agent, handled a number of political action agents

and spotted and developed several candidates for recruitment

for the Bay of Pigs.

Since much of his activity was more overt

than covert, he was thoroughly blown as a ClA asset and

eventually became known in the area as a sort of cla spokesman.

Became something of a security problem.

OSC 75-2190

6/12/75

Barker and Eugenio Martinez in process of cooperating with

George Crile and Taylor Branch for book to be published by

Harper's.

Memo

RE: Termination of employment for Spencer O. Terteling ?

-- 8/8/66 UFGT-17034

Accepted for employment by the Rauland Corp, Subsidiary of

Lenith Radio Corp, Chicago.

Worked for Havana Station from

mid-1959 until his evacuation and arrival in U.S. 1/18/60.

-- Letter to Dept of State from CIA, AAC-1373, 11/12/65

RE: Relatives of Barker, Margarita Lamar Laine and Maria Luisa

Lamar Laine, who are in Mexico City, seek visa

to U.S. (Barker's

aunts.)

11/24/64

INS, Miami

Reports files for Bernard Leon Barker cannot be found

and that it is lost or misfiled.

Bio data

11111595

AKA Terry Bernard Leon Barker

Stateless

liS Air Force copt.. WA II

Spouse:

Clara

Elena Fernandez de Borker

Prize-fight manager

---

## Page 3

• BARKER, page 2

SECRET

Memo 8/7/64

RE: Dept of State decision that Barker lost citizenship

by accepting employment in Cuban government. App. for immigrant vis.

admission of loss of citizenship. Must waif 5 years, petition for

naturalization.

Dispatch 2/6/62 ( UFGS-j1018

RE: Unfeasibility of introducing bill in Congress to

allow for citizenhip restored to Barker.

Can regain citizenship by applying at nearest consulate

overseas for immigrant visa. Mexico City most likely place.

(Applied in Caracas, Venez., entered US 3/28/62.7

-- (UFGA-/16973

7/21/64

RE: Paraphrased history of Barker's citizenship problems.

Worked in Cuban Police Dept under Prio regime in 1949-1950

Cooperated with ODEARL) in job as liaison, volunteering info.

be needed to fight Communism.

(

7 Organized a group to infiltrate Cuban government.

Evacuated to Miami area in 1960 (fall), and was met by

Bernard Reichardt.

In the course ofhis relationship with

him and Howard Hunt, hewas promised that his citizenship status

would be inquired into officially.

In summer of 1961, Barker drove to ZRMETAL/and asked Hunt for

direct help in the matter. Hunt sent someone to take notes in

the matter, he also introduced Barker to Phillip Toomey,) Barker's

next UMWAVE supervisor.

March 1962, cover business provided an opportunity for tien to

leave the country long enough

to re-enter on permanent residence

visa.

On another cover trip in April 1963, met Bernard Reichardt

who said he and Hunt were given to understand that citizenship

matter had been taken care of.

The Cuban passport used in evacuation procured only after assurance

i front

that it would not adversely affect citizenship.

Bio Data

7/28/64

1333.3600

PDOB: 3/17/17 Havana Cuba

Parents: name unk, b. 1/2/98, Columbia, Tenn.

Sanders, W.S., Farmingdale, NY

Military: US ARMY Corps, Capt, POW, Germany 1942-1958

Employment: Present: Prize fight

1/51-12/58: Marianao Municipal Govt:

1951-1/55: Remington Rand Corp, Havana

1951-51: Owner of farm, Pinar del Rio Prov

1950-51: Cuban Police Dept, Havana

Education: 1940-41: University of Havana

1936-38: Farmingdale High School, Farmingdale

Present: Univ. Of Havana

5'8"

, 150 lbs.

---

## Page 4

SOMET

BARKER, page 3

**

**

**.

Indices search request 7/23/64

- References to Barker

File # 127427-15 HFO rpt 1/20/60 p. 2

# 219000

Proj JMARC-NYFO rpt 5/3/60, p. 1

#

Proj SEAL, Memo NYFO, 5/9/60

Memo

8/4/61

RE: [Toomey) and Hunt confer with Genereal Counsel re:

Bernard Barker's

citizenship.

Memo 7/17/61

Indicates Barker in Washington at suggestion of Hunt, re: citizenship

matter.

Dr. Lazo compiled a formidable file on Barker ca. 1953

and was in communication with Washington legal firm, recalled as that

of Edward Bennett Williams, whose office Barker visited on

one occasion..

-- Memo 5/26/64

RE: Barker's polygraph test, 4/16/64.

- Request for approval - 5/4/60

From JMARG, 5/12/60

Crypt=AMCLATTER-1

To be used in USA as independent contract agent in political action

operations in JMARC.

-- Memo 7/31/59

RE: Security investigation of Barker for OA as an informant in

Havana requested 4/2/59

-- Cbl, In 44927 3/19/62

Barker left for Caracas, 3/18. Plans return UMWAVE 3/27-28,

after prizefight.

+ 1111637

-- Memo 3/16/62

McCarthy of INS advised nothing derogatory on Barker in files.

-- 9/20/61 Memo RE: Barker

From bio data: Informant for FBI representative at AmerEno, Mavana;

cooperated with US Treasury officials in the arrest of narcotics

smugglers and received commendation for having served as escort

officer for Mrs. Truman when they visited Havana.

6/14/61 Letter to CIA from Dept of Justice

RE: Understand CIA has no more interest in Barker; will oonvert his

---

## Page 5

'..

mit, inno

SECRET.

BARKER, page 4

- 10/6/61 Dept of Justice to CIA

Request for extension of Barker's parole status granted..

-=

5/5/60 Memo

PRQ part I HKH-A-5126

Mentions Joe Piccolo, UMARC case officer, re Barker.

Personal associations: Dr. Mario Lazo, atty, Havana

Dr. Miguel Alvarez Miari, Prof, Univ Havana

--

1/18/60 Memo

RE: exfiltration in plane of Air Attache from Havana to

Homestead AFB for Barker, 1/18/60.

=-

1/18/60 Memo

RE: Parole of Barker to Benard Reichardt, representative of

WH division in Florida (WH/II1).

1/18/60 Letter to Gen Swing, INS from CIA

Requesting speical entry for Barker to US.

-- 1/15/60 Cbl OUT 83590

Indicates Karnley is Barker's channel to HQs.

-- Cbl IN 29834

1/15/60

Before evacuation, Barker staying at safehouse in Jan Merton's

apartment bidg.

will chauffeur attache to plane, sneak aboard.

--

Indices Search Request 4/7/59

11x1108

9570271

---

## Page 6

ORR

SEORET

BERNARD L. BARKER

DCD DOCUMENTS

DCD file 181871

Memo re Snate Select Conmittee request for files 9/25/75

Indicates no DCD contact.

1974 memo issuing instructions not

to talk to Barker if contacted.

1/16/76

161400Z Jan 76

**

Identities for NFL-062-76 1/14/76.

Memo not attached.

Bernard Barker=Iden V.

(Memo above made available In DCD file of Grayston Lynch.,

NFL -002-76. 1/14/76

Indicates Lynch connected with LNCOLLAR from 1973-1975,

having been recruited by Lucien Conein while in retirement

from CIA. Barker mentioned in connection with book he was

doing with George Crile. Lynch describing activities on behalf

Of INCOLLAR, difficulties in employment there, problems

especially for ex-CIA employees and assets.

NFL -003-76, 1/13/76

Indicates Crile and Taylor Branch may follwo up book on

E. Martinez and Barker with one on Lynch and William Robertson.

Lynch wants to beat Crile and Branch to the punch and come out

with Bay of Pigs book before the Barker-Martinez story is published.

Wants to cover AMLILAC operations - infiltrations into Cuba,

1961-1967 (Comandos Mombisei). Requesting reaction to authoring

book.

---

## Page 7

ViLIL

SEGRET

BERNARD L. BARKER

LOOSE DOCUMENTS

Letter 9/24/63, Chicago, I1l.

Mariou Coubi, Apt 3208, West Marina Tower, 300 North State

Street, Chicago 10, ILL to Mr. Bernard Barker, British Embassy,

MOscOW, USSR.

Message:

Dear Bernard,

since we last met, ang as a matter of fact it is,

but I hope you won't read this twice to find out where it came from.

I am writing this on the assumption it will reach you, i also

enclose a photograph to help your memory.

I hope everything goes well with you, and that I shall hear

from you soon.

In the meantime, all the best.

Mary Coubi

Photo attached, dated 8/63.

11111600

SEGRET

---

