# 180-10104-10395

## Page 1

180-10104-10395

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/2/201

AGENCY :

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10104-10395

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 012919

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: FONZI, GARTON

TO :

GUSTAUSON, TROY.

TITLE:

DATE:

07/27/1976

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS:

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES.

CIA.

RAY, MANUEL.

LEADS & INFORMATION.

GODAY, JOGGUIN,

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM.

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/18/1997

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Box 227.

v9.1

50955

DooId: 32260837

Page

---

## Page 2

MEMO - 7/27/76

TO :

Troy Gustavson

FROM: • Gaeton Fonzi

Uл29i4

I spent most of my time in Puerto Rico last weekend cruising

the

labyrinthian

suburbs of San Juan looking for Leopoldo Cainas

lin the southeast suburb of Carolinal and Manuel Rodrigues

Occarberro: Cinnithe southwest turbanization" of Summitt Hell

I found thaf. they have both since moved from the last addresses

There is no lead on Rodriques but, if necessary?

The people in the house he

once a

Tived in were away for the weekend? but a

neighbor told me that

amanolino moved almost year ago and that the current residents

of his former home are the second family to have lived there

he left andaprobably. wouldn?/haven-even heard of Rodriques.

did notice that San -Juan

Realty seen to be handling many house

sales in the area and it ve ever get to feeling that Rodriques is

significanteenough

to pursue we can follow up that lead eroht now

don't.think hels-that-important..

Lavas luckier with Leopoldo Cainas.

The guy who ls now fiving ina

the house Calnas owned said that Cainas moved only a monthroriso

ago and is living Mithahis son-in-lar in north Florida

The guy

boughtsthe house

from Calinas and

since he makes payments to him

throush the mall hezgave me his address near New Smyrna Beach

There sno telephone Fisting:

but:

Tal aebedule

atrip to call

on him.

probably-after my return from New Orleans:

Despite..not

finding Rodrigues and Calnastand

not being able to

reach Frank.Ballou,

the-guy. Owen. Darnellsuggested I talk with

the trip. mayhave.been worthyhile. as.a.result.of/both the general

backsround.and spectio detailed/informatoon got. from lengthy

conversations with Joaquin Godoy and Manuel Rays

G000K2

see contacted Go doy you rece l

when we were looking for

Jack Gogswell taka Caldwell the fellow with the intel Linence

connections dand very close to a Cuban-expert Fel agent named

Frank perions who Veciana had been in touch with and, we-thought.

-must have known Bishop because Elshop gave Veciana indicationse

that he Knewshim.

Shim

nih caba:

Codoy was the wink to cogswell le first met

in 1958 where,

says Godoy

Gogswell

had close contacts

with the American-Embassy.

whensubsequently

-Palm!

met. Cooswelling

Reach he struck mefas

a former wealthy playboy type who had

sunk into alcoholism, but a quy who had been nothine more than a

pseudo-intelligence contact, freelancing. for various agencies: a

hobby" activity he came to as

a result of his social standino and

classy military background the was a Navy officer himself and his

uncle was top brass who had a shin named after him:

One of the

reasons l decided to check in with Godoy while in Puerto Rico vas

to confirm my impression abaht Cogswell and, also. to ask him if

he has since recalled the namo of the H.l. Hunt representative he

had previously told me he met in New York.

NW 50955 DooId:32260837 Page 2

---

## Page 3

2

Godoy, for what it's worth, seems to be a member of Puerto Rico's

swinging social set.

He's head of the group division of New

England Life, has a plush office and walls covered with commendations.

memorabilia and photos of himself and friends lamong them Hollywood

writer Bud ('What Makes Sammy Run") Schulberg. Godoy himself looks

like something out of Hollywood: ta!!; lean, square-jawed handsome:

man

in his early 50s

What

l: learned

from Godoy must be considered

together.with

what

Manuel Bay would later telling Their vews of the same situat do

are slightly off register

That

along. witha few other things

Godoy said makes me wonder if we've hit apon a circle of some

sinnificances

Veciana

viewed Godoy merelyas a duy withathe.

right

Social contacts whose principal Job was to raise money and

support on a higher echelon.

I wonder now

va Godoy was more

closely linked to an intelligence network than Vectana realized

codoy: once worked for Castro on an upper-middle administrative

level belleve on the public works department. -He

says, however

he was early involved In counter-revolution underground activity

In Cuba-with Manuel Ray's

MRP group

¿planning sabatage operations

of major sugar refinertes and military installations.

#Thereiwas

other leaders within cuba were very upset with pays for

joined the Frente and other ClA-backed Cuban groups In supporting

the Bay of Pigs. The MBP

leaders in Cuba, says Godoy, were

totally against a Baysof-Pios type

invasion and didn'tiwant the

help: of the u.s.ror the Batastaltes it was supporting.

2 Godoy

said that after the Bay of Pigs debacle he was sent to the. u.s

to push Raysaside asga leader of the uRBand- to take over inut

Falsing tunds, for the underground.

That sawhen Pay formed JURE

the organization sylad a onrolseust tors said they were associated

With. Godoy said he worked with Veciana because, Veciana had been

a manher ofthe MRP before he formed Alpha Gone said the MRP

never received any aldor assistance

from the ClAsand herhimself

never had any contact with-the ClAhraxcopte for the two contacts

hugh,fat felloy,

Who questioned him occasionally cand

the other once with Bernard Barker, who offered the MP massive

support its leaders would cooperate with the CrAsThetoffer

was. rejected.

I showed Godoy the Bishop sketch but it rang no bells with him.

I mentioned no names but did tell him that it was an American who:

had been in contact with Veciana over the years. He expressed great

surprise

that Veciana had been in

touch with an American but,

perhaps

in

my paranoia, I detected

touch of irony in his grin

when he

said it. li.e., was he himself assigned to report on

Vecianals activity?).

He fold me he had heard that Veciana had

recently been

in some kind of trouble

and had heen in Jail.

told him it had to do with narcotics, lle said.

I don't believe it.

Mberlutely not. leciana was the straightest, absolutely trustworthy

AW 50955 DocId:32260837 Page 3

---

## Page 4

3

and honest person l ever met. I would trust him explicitly."

Veciana had told me that he thought that Godoy had worked for

the Rockefeller Foundation at one

time.

Godoy said no.

he

hadn't, but he had

applied for a job there once. He was

turned

down

because there was no opening, but he had been

recommended by Dick Goodwin, whom he

had gotten to know

very

well.and who...by.theswayzintroduced. him to..both President

Kennedy and Pobert. Kennedy Godoy says, however,that he

wasan

once.invitedbanderman.kahnofthe Hudson.Institute to.take.

part. ina

series-ofseminars.on/National-Security Rolicy and

Latin. America.

he That-was in 1066 and he accepted.

Other.guest

speakers seemed to be from my quick glance at the program

he showed me? mostly right-wing and military types.

Godoy

said he was invitedabecause kahn had heard of his nameras

being.associated with. the MPP..but.m.still suspiciou offhe

whole thing

"became, more

sospicious when Codoy sald; in going to give

you the name of a fellow whol think can help you; someone who

may know the person you're looking for. He's a very close friend

and tell him you talked with me

His name is Max Losnick, the

publisher of Replica.

As you-may recall from a memo.! recently sent

Sylia Odio had

told me. of the

problems she.and her hasband. had had with the

magazine they were

e trying to get off the ground after they

refused.to.publish.articles they thought came..from Cubans

with ClA connections:

The problems mostly at distribution.

points and sales outlets, she felt were caused by represendatives

Roplica.r.lknow.Lesnick

once had very close ClA connections,

was with the clA reocat the

American Embassy the night that

• Ya

Times!

Glocal correspondant George

VolSkyAsa former Us lAvemplovee Amaintains an office In Lesnickis

building.

Nevertheress, when

Erinted of my suspicions abour

Lesnick, Godoy said he truste Lesnick expitcity andels surethe

is noteclA. in facts he said Lesnick has been

The clA. Udionor point out that so has Bud Fensterwald.

Haying-double checked.my tiles there are a few errors in the

above:'

The correct spelling is Max LespikH

He wasnt at the American

-Embassy he was in the oceanfronf aparfment of

officlally

the political section leader at the embassy. Lesnik was with the

Second National Front of Escambray.

told Lesnik the ClA was

flying

in that night a B-26 leaded

with weapons

for SNFE. I believe

the pilot was

Fiorini.)

As smooth, charming and capable of intrigue as

I suspected Godoy

of being, I not alrost the

opposite impression

of Manuel Pay.

An ennineer in private practice, Ray is a

small, soft-spoken

cy who struck

a5 2

man of quiet

principle and rationality, and

an intellectually

honest individual.

hir

I was greatly impressed

AW 50955 DooId: 32260837. Page

---

## Page 5

Over a four-hour conversation

with Ray, l covered

a wide range

of specific details regarding

any possible knowledoe he migh

have had about even the remote links

warhich

we're interested,

including Lobo, Lykes, Kail, Trafficante, training camps and

Castro assassination attempts.

Unfortunately, following the

Pay of Pigs, Ray's activities appear to have been

not too involved.:

in the operational level, concerning himself instead, from what

I can surmiser

Ingarnering moral and financial support mostly

tin-Puerto Rico

Nevertheless there are a few nt the more sinificant porntsa

developed from. Ray:

When Bay was interviewed by the Fel concerning the visit that

sylvia odio had from three men who said they were associated

with Ray's organization JURE, Ray was not told thatsthe men

claimed that association and he was not told that. odio yas

specifically introduced to a man named Leon Oswald. He claims

that he was simply told that sylvia odio was claiming that

Lee Harvey Oswald once came to hier door and that the Felagent

wanted to know from him whether she was mentally stable..

* 2: 9

Ray's first contact with the American Embassyin Havana was

when he was working underground for Castro before the Revolutiong

That was in 1958-and it

twas with a man named Cadwell: (Question:

could this

as it seems 1ikely;

be our man Jack CogsvelE.lf

so, our impression of him as a

freelance intelligence informant

may need revising and therefore, too,

does our view.of. Godoy

Rand his relationship with Veciana.) Ray later dealt at thes

Embassy.with.ClA.station. chief

and his-assistant

named?

doesn't fit the Bishoo description

and, from whatl

recall.of PauloBethel/sidescription.of

neither does the

when;

asi mentioned to vous

Showed Ray the Bishop sketch and:

gave hunca verbal description, art didnt take him very rong to.

study fandatel he he thought it bore a very close resemblance

to the fellow who interviewed him when he first arrived in the

That was in Novemberd 1260, In Tampa. Ray recalls 9

that the man sald he was with the government, but he doesn't

specifically remember that the nuy said ClA, but he thinks he-did.

What Ray. recalls specifically.was thet the fellow didnt ask him

very much about the details of specific operations, contacts or

what was going on inside Cuba: Instead, he was more interested in

talking with Ray about his political philosophy.

Ray says he talked:

with hin

for about two hours and then never saw him again.

Ray doesn't specifically recall.any front.operating.out of the

Pan

American Bank Building. but wonders whether or not RECE ala.

comewhere in my files I have some background on RECE

and will

chock it, but off the top of my head

itwas Orlando Rosch's

organization.

coincidentaaly. when l mentioned Victor Paneque

to Ray. he said he know

him

in the

underground in cuba but later

in Miami. Day found

that lanecuo had become very close to Rosch.

That may be significant since Paneque was

the co-founder of Surgiss

HW 50955 DooId: 32260837 Page

5

---

## Page 6

5

International Anti-Communist Brigade of No Name Key and was

also

among

the Cuban's picked up on

the way to the Rudbloh

Davis-Bus flaBarre New Orleans training camp.

Ray feels that the

ClA, in a plan perhaps masterminded by

Howard Hunt (whose book "Give Us This Day" he says is full

of "lies," the reason for many of which he does not understandi

deliberately conspired to break up the MRP.

• The MRP.,

says

strongly opposed any major Bay. of Pigs-type operation a

or any assassination attempts on Castro's life.

•Such operations

contained too high a riskof failure and, with their failure.

the collapse of the organization supporting them.:The original

-MRP. plany

says" Rays

encorporated a series of operations each.

carefully timed to develon the impression among the general

population. and.within.Castros.army-that there-washa.crescendo

Lof resistance bulliding.

That would bring collapse.from within

Pay reasoned.

The first stage in the series of operations

Involved 30 separate sabatage

operations within the

span of a

week." The

second stage involved consecutive landings of small

querilla forces at various points of

the.island's coast Together

both.staces would.resutt.in

theiappearance

of a massive and

coordinated attack that was too big to resist. The problem,

says Raybe was

that-to.carry.out-this scheme. the. MRP. needed ther

military support of Manuel artimels group, the MARi and that?s,

how he got involved and sucked into the Bay of Pigs

frente.

It michtsbe significant to keeps the

following in mandain view

of the story that Pobert

Monrow

and others are

now

beginning

to push namely that

Operation

40for whatever name they now

vill cive-to the secret assassiantion squad was meant to:

result.in the ultimate benefit. of kohly or some other Cuban

leader:

Rav

says that when

he was locked up with

the other

cuban leaders in the house in-Opa Lockabysthe ClA on, the eve

Gofthe Pay of Pigseathe only one allowed cout,

they later discovered

was anuel Artimera

sho venton the radio to announce that he was

the cheef of

the army:

Who days he had always wondered voy a man named plácardo, Sardinas

not welft known and had no major backing in

i Cuba, round up

being among the leaders'.of. the "Frente."He asked Tony Verona

about iand verona told him that Dil! Pawley insisted. on th

FREY

says-that

the

nan who originally cut cubelha-rAMLASH) in fouch

with the cla was "El Fano: Cobreno,

in Spain.

Cubela-suggested to

him the idea of using a hich-powered telescopic rifle to kill

Castro and before he could back out of the idea, whichhhe immediately

becan to have seoond thoughts about

: Robreno pushed him into it.

Word leaked out, says Ray,

when

ertime told his

inner circle of MR men

the plan. one

of them, it later was revealed, was a castro 62 agent:

(All of the above is fron rough

notes, but I taped most of the

intervier and if any specific areas need further develoring

chock back on the tanes.)

AW 50955 DocId:32260837 Page 6

---

