ra0-10142-10902

Bac JER Bilt
Prder |

c. Silvia Duran

When President John F. Kennedy was assassinated
on November 22, 1963, the United States investigative
agencies--FBI, CIA, Secret Service, etc.--were asked to

‘

investigate the assassination. When the Central Intelli- 7
gence Agency Mexico City Station learned that Lee Harvey
Oswald had visited Mexico City during late September
and early October, it reviewed the electronic surveil-
lance files and found evidence of phone calls to the
Soviet Embassy made September 27th, September 28th, and

October lst, that could have been made by Oswald. (See

Electronic Surveillance Section.) Review of the electro-
ics surveillance files also produced phone calls on
September 27, 1963 between the Russian Consul and Silvia
Duran, a secretary at the Cuban Consulate, where Oswald
appeared to have been discussed. (See Soviet Electronic
Surveillance Section.) In addition, the Mexico City Sta-
tion found a September 28, 1963 phone call from Silvia
Duran to the Soviet Consulate, where Silvia Duran stated
that there was an American citizen at the Cuban Consulate
who had previously visited the Soviet Consulate. (See
Soviet Electronic Surveillance Séction.) A final phone
call was made on October 3, 1963 where the “alleged"
Oswald identified himself was also found. (See Electronic

Surveillance Section.)

IMD- (OVA -|OBODN —


,At this point, the Mexico City Station determined
that it would request the Mexican government--with whom
it had a good relationship--to arrest Silvia Duran (as
Silvia Duran was a Mexican citizen, she did not have di-
plomatic immunity) because she might shed some light on
the circumstances surrounding the assassination.

The Mexico City Station sent a note to the gober-
nacion head, Luis Echevarria, with Silvia Duran's ad-
dress, her mother's.address,; her brother's address, her
license plate number, her home phone number, her place
of work and a request that she be arrested immediately.
(Note to Luis Echevarria, November 23, 1963, CIA No. 444;
Cable re Oswald-Duran, MEXI 7029, November 23, 1963, CIA
No. 441; Anne Goodpasture Chronology, WxX-7241, Entry 36,
November 23, 1963, CIA No. 635.) The Mexico City Station
also suggested that Duran be held incommunicado until
she could be questioned on the matter. (Ibid.)

The Mexico City Station did not receive prior au-
thorization from CIA Headquarters to request the arrest
of Silvia Duran by Mexican authorities. (See below.)
Headquarters feared that such a request would jeopardize
the [___|retationship between certain Mexican go0
vernment officials with the CIA, if it was disclosed

that Americans were behind Duran's arrest. (Note written


ae

by Winston Scott re phone call with Jack Whitten,
November 23, 1963; Chronology prepared by Anne Goodpas-
ture, WX 7241, entry 37, November 23, 1963, CIA No. 635.)
Jack Whitten, Chief of Western Hemisphere/3, stationed
at Langley Headquarters, telephoned Winston Scott, the
Mexico Chief of Station, requesting that Silvia Duran
not be arrested. (Ibid.) Scott-told Whitten that he
could not rescind the request and that Headquarters should
already have received a cable stating that Silvia Duran
had been arrested. (Ibid.) After Winston Scott's con-
versation with Jack Whitten, Scott called Luis Echevarria
and stated that the Mexico City Station desired that all
information received from Duran be forwarded immediately
to the Mexico City Station and that her arrest and state-
ments not be communicated to any leftist groups. (Chief
of Station phone call to Luis Echevarria, November 23,
1963, CIA No. 440; Flash Cable from Karamissines to Mexi-
co City Station, November 23, 1963, DIR 84916, CIA No.
403), Chronology of Anne Goodpasture, entry 46, November
23, 1963, CIA No. 636.)

On November 27, 1963, the Mexican government for-
warded to the Mexico City Station a copy of Silvia Du-
ran's ten-page signed statement. (Blind Memo re Lee
Harvey Oswald and Silvia Duran, November 26, 1963, CIA

#473.) She said, "Upon learning about the assassination


-4-

Silvia Duran and her husband speculated that President
Kennedy might have been assassinated for racial reasons.
When she became aware that the assassin was Lee Harvey
Oswald, she ascertained that it was the same man who
approximately two months prior had been to the Cuban Con-
sulate to solicit an intransit visa to Russia. Having
taken his name. from the special documentation he presented
she knew that he was married to a Russian woman and be-
longed to the "Fair Play for Cuban Committee." . She
checked the data in the Consulate archvies and became
certain that it was the same individual who was blonde,
short, dressed unelegantly and whose face turned red
when angry. The Consul had denied the visa because to
obtain an intransit visa from the Cuban government, it
was imperative that he previously obtain a visa from the
Soviet Consulate. Since obtaining a visa from the So-
viets took four months and Oswald's Mexican visa expired
soon Oswald became excited and Duran had to call the Con-
sul who had an argument with him. The only aid she could
give Oswald was advising that he see the Soviet Consul,
and calling the person in charge of that office. The
Soviet official told her that they would have to consult
Moscow which would take four months. That afternoon,
Oswald returned to the Cuban Consulate and Silvia Duran

confirmed that he could get a Cuban visa only after he


received a Russian visa. She gave Oswald her name

and business phone number but never gave him her ad-
dress because she had no reason tom give it to him.

She knew that phoning the Soviet Consulate was not one
of hex duties and that if she did so she did it only

to help Oswald. She gave Oswald her business phone
number only because he would have to call subsequently
to check whether he had obtained a visa. . He never called
back." Silvia Duran was released November 24, 1963

and rearrested November 27, 1963, when the Mexican go-
vernment alleged that she was attempting to leave Mexico
for travel to Havana. (Cable from Mexico. City Station
to Headquarters, November 27, 1963, MEXI 7101, CIA #493.)
According to the Mexican officials who detained Duran a
second time, there was no addition to her story. (Cable
from Mexico City Station to Director, December 12, 1963,
MEXI 7364, CIA No. 557-558.)

The Mexico City Station forwarded Duran's ten-page
signed statement to headquarters on November 27, 1963
(Cable Mexico City Station to Headquarters, November 27,
1963, MEXI 7105, CIA No. 479; Chronology of Anne Goodpasture,
November 27, 1963, entry no. 127, CIA No. 656.) The
following day Headquarters sent a clarification cable to

the Mexico City Station seeking to insure that neither


Silvia Duran nor the Cubans would have a basis for con-
cluding that the Americans were béhind her rearrest.
(The cable stated, "We want the Mexican authorities to
take the responsibility for the whole affair; Cable
from Headquarters to the Mexico City Station, November
28, 1963, DIR 85371, CIA No. 464; Chronology of Anne
Goodpasture, Nov. 28, 1963, WX .7241, entry no. 141, CIA
No. 658.)

When the Central Intelligence Agency began to
work with the Warren Commission, Headquarters cabled
the Mexico City Station that their plan in passing in-
formation to the Warren Commission was to eliminate men-
tion of telephone taps in order to protect their con-
tinuing operations. (CIA Cable from Headquarters to
Mexico City Station, December 21, 1963, DIR 90466, CIA
No. 549; Chronology of Anne Goodpasture, December 21,
1963, Entry No. 268, CIA No. 682) Headquarters cabled
that the would rely on Silvia Duran's statements and on
the Consular files which the Soviets gave the State De-
partment (Ibid.); (Headquarters stressed that exact,
detailed information from LITAMIL-7 and LITAMIL-9-—pene-
tration agents in the Cuban Embassy--on what Silvia Du-
ran and other officials said about Oswald's visits and
his dealings would be valuable and usable corroborative

evidence. )


ites eee

When the Central Intelligence Agency forwarded

to the Warren Commission a copy of Duran's signed state-

ment.

It read as follows:

.+.She remembered...(that Lee Harvey Oswald)
was the name of an American who had come

to the Cuban Consulate to obtain a visa to
travel to Cuba in transit to Russia, the
latter part of September or the early part of
October of this year, and in support of his
application had shown his passport, in which
it was noted that he had lived in that country
for a period of three years; hs labor card
from the same country written in the Russian
language; and letters in that same language.

He had presented evidence that he was married
to a Russian woman, and also that he was ap-
parently the leader of an organization in the
city of New Orleans called "Fair ***(Play) for
Cuba," claiming that he should be accepted as

a "friend" of the Cuban Revolution. According-
ly, the declarant, complying with her duties,
took down all of the information and completed
the appropriate application form; and the
declarant, admittedly exceeding her responsi-
bilities, informally telephoned the Russian con-
sulate, with the intention of doing what she
could to facilitate issuance of the Russia visa
to Lee Harvey Oswald. However, they told her
that there would be a delay of about four months
in processing the case, which annoyed the appli-
cant since, according to his statement, he was
in a great hurry to obtain visas that would
enable him to travel to Russia, insisting on
his right to do so in view of his background
and his loyalty and his activities in behalf of
the Cuban movement. The declarant was unable
to recall accurately whether or not the appli-
cant told her he was a member of the Communist
Party, but he did say that-his wife***was then
in New York City, and would follow him,***
(Senora Duran stated) that when Oswald under~-
stood that it was not possible to give hima
Cuban visa without his first having obtained
the Russian visa,***he became very excited or


-g-

angry, and accordingly, the affiant called
Consul Ascue (sic),*** (who) came out and
began a heated discussion in English with
Oswald, that concluded by Ascue telling him
that "if it were up to him, he would not

give him the visa," and "a person of his

type was harming the Cuban Revolution rather
than helping it," it being understood that

in their conversation. they were talking about
the Russian Socialist Revolution and not the
Cuban. Oswald maintained that he had two rea-
sons for requesting that his visa be issued
promptly, and they were: one, that his tourist
permit in Mexico was about to expire; and

the other, that he had to get to Russia as
quickly as possible. Despite her annoyance,
the declarant gave Oswald a paper***in which
she put down her name, "Silvia Duran," and
the number of the telephone at the consulate,
which is "11-28-47" and the visa application
was processed anyway. It was sent to the
Ministry of (Foreign) Relations of Cuba; from
which a routine reply was received some fif-
teen to thirty days later, approving the visa,
but on the condition that the Russian visa

be obtained first, although she does not re-
call whether or not Oswald leter telephoned
her at the Consulate number that she gave

him. (CE 2120 p. 37-40.)

The Central Intelligence Agency had relied on
Duran's statements but had delted Duran's description
of Oswald as blonde and short. (Supra.) It had also
excised Duran's statement, "The only aid she could give
Oswald was advising that he see the Soviet Consul, and
calling the person in charge of that office" which
alluded to Oswald asking for some type of aid at the

Cuban Consulate. (Supra, p., )



VI. Information not available at the time of the
Warren Commission
A. Silvia Duran
1. House Select Committee on Assassinations 6/6/78

Interview of Silvia Tirado

Ms. Tirado (Duran divorced Horatio Duran in 1968
was never questioned by American officials in 1963. Thus,
the Committee established contact with the Mexican go-
vernment and requested that the Mexican government make
Silvia Triado available for an interview. (Letter HSCA
to Mexican government, , SEK Doc. # )

The Mexican government complied on 6/6/78. Ms. Tirado
told the House Select Committee on Assassinations the
following:

Lee Harvey Oswald visited the Cuban Con-
sulate three times on September 27, 1963, not
twice as the Warren Commission previously re-
ported. (HSCA interview of Silvia Tirado, 6/6/78,
JFK Doc. p. ) Oswald first visited the
Cuban Consulate at approximately 11:00 a.m.,
requesting an intransit visa to Cuba with Russia
as the final destination. (Ibid., 523-526) He
showed her some documents, then, left to ob-
tain photographs needed for his application.

(Ibid., 523-526)


Se es
Oswald returned at approximately 1:00
p.m. with four photographs. (Ibid., p. 526.)
Ms. Tirado typed the application in dupli-
cate, stapled a picture on top of each and
had Oswald sign each in her presence. (Ibid.,
p. 527-8.) As identification, Oswald showed
her documents he had brotrght: his Russian
labor card, marriage certificate with the
name of his Russian wife, his American Com-
munist Party membership card and his "Fair
Play for Cuba" membership card. (Ibid., p. 531
Ms. Tirado found Lee Harvey Oswald's be-
havior suspicious because normally a Communist
traveled only with his passport as belonging
to the Communist Party was illegal in Mexico
in 1963. (Ibid., p. 533.)

There was a procedure whereby the American
Communist Party would arrange visa matters for
their members with the Cuban Communist Party.
(Ibid., p. 532-533.) The American would then
come to Mexico, visit the Cuban Consulate, and
receive his visa immediately. (Ibid., p. 533.)
When Tirado asked Oswald why he did not have
the American Communist Party arrange his trip
to Cuba, he stated that he had not had the time.

(Ibid., p. 532.)



eee irs

After explaining to Oswald that he had to ac-
quire a Russian visa before he could receive a Cuban
visa, Tirado jotted her name and business phone number
on a piece of paper and gave it to Oswald who then left
to get his Russian visa. (Ibid., p. 549, 534.)

Oswald returned to the Cuban Consulate between
5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m., which was after normal working
hours, (10:00 to 2:00 p.m.) (Ibid., p. 543.) The guard
called Tirado, stating that someone who did not speak
Spanish was at the gate inquiring about a visa. (Ibid.,
p- 543-4.) As routine procedure, she asked the guard
to escort the individual to her office. (Ibid., p. 544.)
Oswald told her that he had acquired a Russian visa.
(Ibid., p. 544.) Since he did not produce it when asked
she called th Russian Consulate. (Ibid., p. 545.) The
Consul told Duran that Oswald had been to the Consulate
requesting a visa and had been told that the reply would
take approximately four months. (Ibid., p. 545.) When
she relayed the message to Oswald, he got very excited,
insisting that as a person who had been in jail because
of the Cuban Revolution he should receive a visa. (Ibid.,
p. 546.) Oswald stated that he could not wait that long
because his Mexican visa expired in three days. (Ibid.,

p- 546) At this point, Ms. Tirado informed Consul,


Pee ees

Eusibio Azcue, of the situation. (Ibid., p. 546).

Azcue had been in his private office which he shared
with his upcoming replacement, Alfredo Mirabal. (Ibid.,
p. 546) Azcue politely explained the requisites for an
intransit visa to Oswald. (Ibid., p. 546, 554) When

he noticed that Oswald was a stubborn man he told Os-
wald that he was obviously nota friend of the Cuban
Revolution, because he would otherwise understand that
Cuba had to be extremely careful with the people it al-
lowed in the country. (Ibid., p. 554) Azcue and Oswald
yelled at each other. (Ibid., p. 551) Then Azcue went
to the door, opened it and asked Oswald to leave. (Ibid.,
p- 554) Oswald did not revisit or telephone the Consu-
late. (Ibid., p. 554) Ms. Tirado described Lee Harvey
Oswald as approximately five feet six, with blonde hair,
weighing about 125 pounds, and with very little hair.

(Ibid., p. 96)

B. The Cubans

When Lee Harvey Oswald allegedly visited the Cuban
Consulate, Eusebio Azcue Lopez, a Cuban citizen, was
the Cuban Consul. Because he had diplomatic immunity,
the Cuban government had never been asked to make him

available for questioning. (Azcue traveled from Mexico to


eee Ee et

Cuba on November 18.) In an effort to investigate con-
tact with the Cuban government the Committee asked the
Cuban government to make Eusebio Azcue available for
Committee and staff interviews. (Letter from HSCA to
Cuban government, , JFK Doc. # ) The
Cuban government complied with the Committee's request
on April 1. ian

During that interview Mr. Azcue alleged that the
man he saw Jack Ruby shoot at the Dallas Police Station
was not the same individual who visited the Cuban Consu-
late in 1963. (HSCA Interview of Eusebio Azcue, April 1

, pp. 12-21, JFK Doc. # ) In addition,

Mr. Azcue stated that Alfredo Mirabal, who in September
1963, had recently arrived from Cuba to assume the Con-~
sul's duties, had also been present during Oswald's
visit. (Ibid., p. ) The Committee traveled to Cuba
a second time to interview Alfredo Mirabal. (See
Cuba procedural write-up trip 2.) Subsequent to this
second trip to Havana, the Committee asked the Cuban
government to make Eusebio Azcue and Alfredo Mirabal
available for the public hearings on September 18, 1978.
(Letter HSCA to Cuban government, , JFK Doc. #
The Cuban government complied with the Committee's re-

quest.


aan iy ae

1.
oe Eusebio Azcue Lopez told the House Select Committee

on Assassinations at the Public Hearings on 9/18/78
the following:
An individual who gave the name Lee
Harvey Oswald visited the Cuban Consulate on
three occasions in late September and early
October 1963. (Mr. Azcue could not pinpoint
the exact dates of the visit.) (Public Hear-
ing Testimony of Eusebio Azcue Lopez, 9/18/78,
pp. 30-31.) The individual first visited the
Cuban Consulate during workings hours, re-
questing an intransit visa to Cuba with Russia
as the final destination. The man showed the
secretary, Silvia Duran, some documents. (Com-
munist party membership card, Fair Play for
Cuba membership card, Soviet Union residence
card, marriage certificate with the name of
his Russian wife) which he believed would be
sufficient to obtain a visa. (Public Hearing
Testimony of Eusibio Azcue Lopez, 9/18/78,
p-5-30) When the secretary would not grant
him a visa, the man asked me to see whether
-upon examination of the documents Azcue could
grant hima visa. (Ibid., p. 29-30) Azcue

answered negatively. (Ibid., p. 30) The indi-


peu Uo

vidual then left to obtain photographs needed for
his application. (Ibid., p. 20)

The man probably returned on September 27, 1963
with the photographs and completed the applications in
Ms. Duran's presence. (Ibid., p. 32) As the amount of
time required to process this document could have taken
as long as twenty days or the résponse could have been
negative, Azcue told the man that he could grant him
a visa to Cuba, without consulting his government, if
he had a Russian visa. (Ibid., p. 33) The individual
then left to obtain his Russian visa. (Ibid. p. 33)

After the man left the Cuban Consulate, Azcue
received a telephone call from the Soviet Consule.
(Azuce could not precise the time of the phone call.
(Public Hearing Testimony of Eusebio Azcue Lopez,
9/18/78, p. 34) The Soviet Consul explained that the
man's documents were legitimate but that the Soviet Con-
sulate could not issue a visa until it received authori-
zation from Moscow. (Ibid. p. 35)

Emphasizing that the Cuban Consulate never re-
ceived visitors after working hours (10:00 - 2:00) Mr.
Azcue opined that the individual probably returned to
the Consulate on September 28, 1963. (Ibid. p. 36)

When Azcue explained to Oswald that he could not grant

him ‘a visa, the man made statements directed against



Ge
Cuba and called Cuba a bureaucracy. (Ibid. p. 38) At
that point, Azcue became upset and asked the individual
to leave the Consulate (Ibid. p. ) _ Oswald did not
revisit the Consulate. (Ibid. p. 38

Mr. Azcue described the man who visited the. Con-
sulate as follows: a white male, between 5;6" and Ciao aes
over 30 years of age, very thin-long face, with straight
eyebrows and a cold look in his eyes. (Ibid. p. 50-51)
Azcue alleged that he would never have identified Lee
Harvey Oswald as the man who visited the Cuban Consulate

in 1963.

2.
Alfredo Mirabal Diaz told the House Select Committee
on Assassinations at the public hearings, 9/18/78,
the following:
Lee Harvey Oswald, seeking a visa, visited
the Cuban Consulate twice in September 1963.
(Public Testimony, Alfredo Mirabal Diez, 9/18/
78, p. 117) (Mr. Mirabal could not pinpoint
the exact dates of Oswald's visit but opined
that the second visit occurred on September 27,
1963.) Since Mirabal could not speak English
‘though he was the new Consul, ex-Consul Azcue

handled the matter. (Ibid. p. 117) On both


een Wy pies

occasions there were such loud arguments
between Oswald and Azcue that Mirabal
thought that the man's visit to the Con-
sulate could be a case of provocation.
(Ibid. p. 118)

Though Mirabal caught only glimpses
of the man, he opined that the person whose
picture appears on the Lee Harvey Oswald
visa application was the same Lee Harvey

Oswald who visited the Consulate. (Ibid. p. 120

2. CIA Information not available at time of Warren
Commission

a. LIRING 3 Allegation

In 1967 a report that Silvia Duran had had
intimate relations with Lee Harvey Oswald came to the
attention of the Central Intelligence Agency's Mexico
City Station. (Write-up: Wallace B. Rowton meeting with
LIRING/3, May 26, 1967.) The source, LIRING 3 (an
extremely reliable source) stated that he had recently
received a call from Silvia Duran (LIFEAT coverage
for May 22, 1967, verified the phone call ) and that
he had visited her to renew acquaintances. (Write-up:
Wallace B. Rowton meeting with LIRING/3, May 26, 1967

During the visit, Duran told LIRING/3 that she had met



ea pe

Lee Harvey Oswald at the Cuban Consulate when he applied
for a visa and had dated him on several occasions. (Ibid.)
Duran admitted that had had intimate relations with
Oswald but insisted that she had no idea of his plans.
(Ibid.) In addition, Duran told LIRING/3 that when the
news of the assassination became public knowledge, the
Mexican government arrested her and during the interro-
gation beat her until she admitted that she had had an
affair with Lee Harvey Oswald. (Ibid.)

In a subsequent memorandum, Headquarters wrote:

“First that Silvia Duran had sexual inter-

course with Lee Harvey Oswald on several

occasions when the latter was in Mexico

is probably new, but adds little to the

Oswald case. Second, the Mexican police

did not report the extent of the Duran-

Oswald relationship to this Station."

(Dispatch Chief of Western Hemisphere to

Chief of Station, HMMA-32243, May 27,

1967, p- )

That the Mexican government did not disclose all
the information in their possession to the Central Inte
telligence Agency raises one of two possibilities:

1) the Mexican government did not want to disclose that

one of their citizens had had intimate relations



- 19 -

with the assassin of John F. Kennedy; or
2) Silvia Duran was a Mexican penetration agent in
the Cuban Consulate and the Mexican government was

protecting their informant.

Cc. Elena Garro de Paz

On October 5, 1964, eleven days after the publica-
tion of the Warren Commission Report, a story alleging
Lee Harvey Oswald's presence at a party in Mexico City
attended by Cuban government personnel came to the at-
tention of the Central Intelligence Agency (wx742,7
p. 94, entry #430, CIA #721; Blind memo dated 10/5/64,
CIA #576.)

Elena's Story as Reported October 5, 1964

Elena Garro de Paz* and Deba Garro de Guerrero
Galvan, first cousins of Horatio, Ruben and Lynn Duran,
were invited to a twist party at the home of Ruben Duran
in the middle of the week in the fall of 1963. Lee Har-
vey Oswald was alleged to have been at this party in the

company of "two other beatnik-looking boys." (Ibid.)

* See attachment of biography of Elena



- 19 A-

b. The Possibility that Silvia Duran was an Intelli-

gence Agent for Either the Central Intelligence

Agency or the Cuban Intelligence Agency

Since the publication of the Warren Commission
in September 1964, its major critics have written about
the possibility that Silvia Duran was an intelligence
agent for either the Central Intelligence Agency or

the Cuban Intelligence Agency.

i) Was Silvia Duran a Central Intelligence?

In an effort to resolve this question the House
Select Committee reviewed the United States' investga-
tive agencies files on Silvia Duran. The Committee
found no evidence during its file review that linked
Silvia Duran to the Central Intelligence Agency.

In addition, the House Select Committee on Assas—
sinations interviewed most of the Mexico City Station's

employees about the allegation. Only David Phillips

(Chief of in the Mexico City Station in

1963) considered the allegation possible. Mr. Phillips
stated that "at one time the agency pitched /pitched is
a term used by the CIA to designate an attempt to re-
eruit an individual7 almost everyone at the Cuban Em-
bassy." (HSCA interview of David Phillips, 8/3/78, p. 8)

but that "it was possible that she (Silvia Duran) was


-~ 19 B-

not pitched because the Station (Mexico City Station)
could not identify any of her weaknesses." (HSCA inter-
view of David Phillips, 8/3/78, p. 8, 9) Mr. Phillips
was then told about LITAMIL 9's statement that all V
that would have to be done to recruit Duran was to get
a blonde, blue-eyed American in bed with the little
pita. (Pita is a Spanish term for whore.) (
)

At that point, Mr. Phillips admitted that it

sounded like Duran had been targeted, that the Station's

interest had been substantial and that the weaknesses

and means had been identified. (Ibid., p. 9) Mr. Phil-
lips pointed out, however, that because Duran had
been targetted did not necessarily mean that she had
been pitched. (Ibid., p. 9.) In addition, he had not
heard that Duran had been pitched. (Ibid., p. 9.)
Another CIA employee, Dan Neiscuir (Neiscuir
worked on an "Oswald Task Force" in late September or
early October of 1975 dealing with 2 or 3 FOIA suits
brought against the agency concerning the files on Lee
Harvey Oswald) stated that he believed that Duran had

been an agency source. His decision was based on a re-

view of Oswald's 201 file, possibly because of the
agency's attempts after the assassination to protect

Duran. (HSCA Interview of Dan Neiscuir, 8/29/78, p. 1.)


tosses Se seo tate

Despite Mr. Phillips and Mr. Neiscuir's state-
ments, the Committee cannot definitely resolve whether

Duran was a Central Intelligence Agency agent.
ii. Was Silvia Duran a Cuban Intelligence Agent?

An an effort to resolve this question, the HSCA
reviewed the United States investigative agencies' files
on Silvia Duran. ‘The Committee found no evidence in
the files that linked Ms. Duran with Cuban intelligence.

In addition, the House Select Committee on Assas-
sinations interviewed most of the Mexico City Station's

employees about the allegation. Only Barney Hidelgo,

who worked in Mexico City in 1963, con-

sidered the allegation a possibility. Mr. Hidalgo, not
professing to remember all the details, stated that
he thought that. Duran was a Cuban intelligence agent.
(HSCA testimony of Barney Hidelgo, 8/10/78, p. 16.)
Hidelgo said:

"At the- tine when this contact told_me

of Silvia Duran I tied the two together,

- yes, sir. I don't know, how at that time

it was obvious to me as an intelligence

agent that there was ‘some connection there

but it was of no interest whatsoever to me,

I do remember that when I next saw this



- 19D -

contact of mine I mentioned the fact to

him and let him proceed to do whatever he

wanted to." (Ibid., p. 16.)

Mr. Hidelgo further stated that he never resolved ‘
the issue. (Ibid., p. 6.)

With no corroborating evidence for Mr. Hidelgo's
memory, the Committee must conélude that Silvia Duran

was probably never employed by Cuban intelligence.


epee I peers

The Americans remained together the entire evening

and did not dance. When Elena tried to speak with the
Americans, she was "shifted" to another room by one of
her cousins. (Ibid.) The memo does not state whether
Elena had mentioned which cousin had not allowed her
to speak to the Americans.) One of Elena's cousins
told her at the time that (he or she) did not know
who the Americans were except that Silvia Duran (an
employee of the Cuban Embassy and the wife of Horatio
Duran), had brought them to the party.

The day after the party, Elena and Deba saw the
three Americans on the Insurgentes, a main avenue in
Mexico City. (Ibid.) The Garros claimed that they had
recognized Oswald's photograph when it was published
after the assassination. (Ibid.) Silvia Duran's ar-
rest "underlined the Garros' certainty" that the man had

been Lee Harvey Oswald. (Ibid.)

The source of the memo was

known by the cryptonym LICOOKIE

I whom the Committee identified as June Cobb Sharp while
receiving LICOOKIE's file. According to Elena, Ms.

Cobb was sent to her house shortly after the assassina-
tion for a few days, by a mutual friend, a Costa Rican

writer named Eunice Odio. (CIA No.'2 580-583, Wx-7241,



= 21 -

Entry #427, p. 92, CIA #719.) “Ms. Garro asserted
that while at her house, Ms. Cobb expressed interest
in the Kennedy assassination. (Ibid.) One night Elena's
sister Deba, who was visiting, got drunk and told the
whole story. (Ibid.) Claiming to be a CIA agent, Cobb
suggested that Elena and Deba go to Texas to tell their
story. (Ibid.) Elena stated that when Cobb's suggestion
was rejected, Cobb stated that she would arrange a meet-
ing with the CIA Station Chief. (Winston Scott was the
Mexico City Station Chief in 1964.) The meeting did not
occur because Ms. Cobb was askéd to leave the Garro
house evidently because she kicked Elena's cat. (CIA
No's 580-583; Wx7241, Entry #427, p. 42, CIA #719.) A
notation on the memo says that L/l (Licookie I) never
regained contact with Elena Garro de Paz. (Wx7241, p. 94
Entry #430, CIA #721; Blind Memo dated 10/5/64, CIA
#576.)

The LiCookie memo was not inserted in either the
Elena Garro or Lee Harvey Oswald "p" (personality) files
but in a local leftist and Cuban project file. The Com-
mittee learned about the memo from Wx-7241, a chronolo-
gical history of the Oswald case prepared by Anne Good-
pasture for the CIA in 1976.) The memo was found in De-
eenbert 1965. (See Wx 7241, p. 94, CIA #721.) Stanley

Watson found the memo. A marginal notation on Wx7241


ey ee

says, "Why was this not sent to Headquarters?" (p. 87,
CIA #714.) The Committee has been able to determine
that the memo was forwarded to headquarters shortly

thereafter.

October 12, 1964 CIA Memo for the Record

On October 12, 1964 the chief off ——CC=id|

Jim Flannery, wrote a memo for the record reporting

that Elena Garro de Paz had told the story to Eunice
Odio. (The Committee has not been able to determine
if Elena Garro told Ms. Odio the story personally or
if Ms. Cobb related to Ms. Odio what Elena had told
her) who relayed it to "Tichborn" (Tichborn was Henry
P. Lopez's cryptonym. Mr. Lopez was a witting asset
who wrote propaganda pieces for the CIA. After care-
ful review of his CIA file, the HSCA has not been able
to establish a link from Mr. Lopez to either Ms. Odio
or Ms. Garro) on 10/9/64. (10/12/64 memo, CIA #596,
Wx7241, p. 87, CIA #714.)

The story is not as detailed as the 10/5/64 ver-
sion. There is no mention of Deba Garro Guerrero Gal-
van. . The story, perhaps because it is’ third hand, dif-
fers from the previous story in two areas: the party
was at the Cuban Embassy, not at Ruben Duran's; Elena

talked to a Cuban Embassy official, not one of her


elsttey oe ue

cousins about the three Americans.

Attached to the memo was a note from Flannery to
the Chief of Station, Winston Scott, which read, "Do
you want me to send the gist of this to Headquarters?"
Scott then noted that the memo should be filed. The
file indications show that the memo went into the Oswald

"p" £ile and the Elena Garro "P" file. (Ibid.)

B. November 24, 1964 CIA Informant Report

On November 24, 1964 a Central Intelligence Agency
informant (the House Select Committee has been unable to
determine the informant's identity since his name does
not appear in any CIA files) reported information (memo
from Winston Scott to the files, re: June Cobb, 11/25/64,
CIA Nos. 592-593; Wx 7241, p. 88, Entry #404, CIA #715)

derived from "LICHANT/1. (While reviewing LICHANT I's

file the Committee determined that

name was Manuel Calvillo. Elena claims that the day fol-
lowing John F. Kennedy's assassination, Calvillo escorted
her and her daughter to the Vermont Hotel for protection;
see also December 25, 1965 Thomas memo for more informa-
tion on Manuel Calvillo.) The informant asserted that
June Cobb was an "American Communist" who rented a room

from Elena Garro. (Memo from Winston Scott to the files,


- 24 -
re June Cobb, 11/25/64, CIA Nos. 592-593, Wx 7241,

p- 88, Entry #404, CIA No. 715.) The informant also
stated that Elena tried to talk to Robert Kennedy when
he was in Mexico because she had met Oswald “and two
friends (Cubans)" at a party at Horacio Duran's house.
(Ibid.) In addition, the informant claimed that Elena
also told her story to an Amerttan official at the
Embassy, who claimed to represent the Warren Commission.
(Ibid.) The Chief of Station noted that he had asked
LICHANTI to pursue the story. (Ibid.) but there is no
indication that he ever complied with this request.

(HSCA Review of Classified CIA Documents.)

1. November 24, 1964 Elena Meeting with Mexico City Legal

Attache Officers

Elena and her daughter also told. their story to
the Mexico City Legal Attache. (The Legal Attache in
1964 was Clark Anderson.) They recounted the same story
previously given to June Cobb Sharp. The date of the
party was given as September 30, October 1 or October 2,
1963. (FBI 105-825555 Report, December-11, 1964 entitled
Lee Harvey Oswald, p. 1.) The agent who wrote the
report { : ) noted that Lee Harvey

Oswald could not have been identical with the American

allegedly observed by Mrs. Paz at the party if this party


eats

were held on the evening of October 1 or October 2,
1963. (FBI 103-825555 Report, December 11, 1964 entitled
Lee Harvey Oswald, p. 1) FBI investigation of President
Kennedy's assassination had established that Lee Harvey
Oswald had departed Mexico City by bus at 8:30 a.m. on
October 2, 1963 when Ms. Paz stated that she saw Lee
Harvey Oswald walking on Insurgentes. (Ibid. p. 3)

Elena was questioned regarding the identity of
other persons attending the party at the Ruben Duran
home who might have been in a position to observe the
three Americans. Elena stated that in the course of the
party her daughter met a young man named "Alejandro"
at the party and danced with him. He was apparently
quite smitten with the daughter and tried to call her
on several occasions after the party. (Ibid., p. 3)

The daughter did not take the calls and as a result
"Alejandro" wrote several letters to the daughter.
(Ibid., p. 3.) Ms. Garro exhibited two of the letters,
as well as a business card which identified the young
man as Ario Alejandro Lavagnini Stenius. (Ibid., p. 3.)

The letter which Ms. Garro said was the first writ-
ten by the young man to her daughter bore the date Septem-
ber 1,..1963 and the Mexico City Post Office postmark

September 2, 1963. When Ms. Garro was told this she


HD Gaiee

commented that the Communists probably had facilities
for falsifying postcard. (Ibid.)

To investigate Ms. Garro's story further, the
Federal Bureau interviewed Ario Alejandro Lavagnini
Stenius on November 27, 1964. (Ibid., p. 4.) Lavagnini
recalled that there were approximately thirty people
at the Ruban Duran party, few Of whom he knew. He re-
called having met a Mexican girl who had recently re-
turned from living inFrance. He was unable to fix the
date of the party, but felt it was porbably early in
September because of a heavy rain which occurred as they
were leaving the party about 2:00 a.m. (Ibid., p. 4)

Lavagnini noted that no Americans present at this
party. He was familiar with the physical description
of Lee Harvey Oswald because of publicity following the
assassination of President Kennedy but otherwise had
no knowledge of him and had never seen him except for
news photographs following the assassination. (Ibid.,
p- 4.) Levagnini was the only person interviewed by the
FBI who attended parties at the Duran house in the Sep-
tember-October time frame.

There is no indication on the FBI document that
this information was given ‘to the Central Intelligence

Agency's Mexico City Station. (A review of CIA files


-27-

corroborated the above.)

2. Charles Thomas' First Meeting with Elena Garro Where

Lee Harvey Oswald is Discussed

On. 12/10/65 Charles Thojas, a political officer
at the American Embassy, wrote a memorandum about a con-
versation with Elena Garro de Paz. (CIA #586-587, WX 7241
Entry No. 425, p. 91, CIA No. 718.) The meeting with
Elena had been about other matters but she mentioned
knowing Oswald. Thomas noted that she was reluctant
to talk but did. (Ibid.)

Elena's story reported here is the same as that
given in the Licookie memo dated 10/5/64, but with
more details. She said that General Jose Jesus Clark
Flores (a friend of Ruben Duran's, Silvia Duran,
Eusebio Azcue (a pro-Communist writer-friend of the
Durans), and a Latin American Negro man with red hair
(unidentified) were at the party. A marginal comment
by this entry in WxX-7241 says, “How did Elena know
about a red-haired Negro?" Elena also told Thomas
that she had later learned that Silvia Duran had been
Oswald's mistress while he was there." (A note by this
entry in WxX-7241 says, “now did Elena Garro know about
Sivlia being the mistress of Oswald?? This is 1965.")
The Mexico City Station did not hear. about the Oswald-

Duran "affair" until July 1967 when a CIA Asset LIRING/3



= 28 -

reported it. (After reviewing LIRING/3 file at the
CIA the House Select Committee on Assassinations has
been unable to determine with whom LIRING/3 was asso-
ciated who would have had knowledge about Silvia Duran
or Lee Harvey Oswald.)

Elena told Thomas that she and her daughter had
gone to the Cuban Embassy on November 23, 1963 and
shouted "Assassins" and other insults at the Embassy em-
ployees. (CIA #586-587, Wx7241, Entry No. 425, p. 91,
CIA No. 718) That same day a friend, Manuel Calvillo,
an official in the Gobernacion, took her and her daugh-
ter to a small hotel in the center of Mexico City. (tbia.)
They were kept there for eight days under the pretext
that. they were in danger. (Ibid.) Elena claimed to
have told Calvillo that she wanted to tell her story
to the American Embassy. (Ibid.) Calvillo dissuaded
her by telling her that the American Embassy was full
of Communist spies. (Ibid.) Elena said that some of
the other people who had been at the party were taken
to Veracruz where they were "protected" by Governor
Lopez Arias. (Ibid.; the House Select Committee was
unable to determine the veracity of Ms. Paz' allega-
tion. See HSCA Investigation of Elena Garro de Paz

allegation.) She said that Ruben Duran, reportedly


- 29 -
"protected" by General Clark Flores, was very prosper-
ous and was driving a big car. (CIA #586-587, Wx-7241,
Entry No. 425, p. 91, CIA No. 718/) Elena also claimed
that Ruben Duran told her months after the assassination
that he was not really a Communist and that killing Ken-
nedy had been a mistake. (Ibid.; the House Select Com-
mittee on Assassinations has not been able to determine
whether Ruben actually spoke to Elena about the assassina-
tion. (See HSCA Investigation of Elena Garra de Paz
Allegations.) In addition, Ruben Duran claimed he had
no reason to tell Elena that killing Kennedy had been a
mistake since he. had no involvement.

Charles Thomas circulated a copy of his memorandum
concerning Elena's allegations in the American Embassy
including the Central Intelligence Agency's Mexico City
Station to aid them in their investigation of the John
F. Kennedy assassination. (The House Select Committee
has determined that the Central Intelligence Agency re-
ceived the copy of the Thomas memorandum prior to Decem-
ber 25, 1965, his next meeting with Elena Garro. See
below.) The COS wrote a note on the memo: "What an ima-
gination she has!?! Should we send to Headquarters?"
The Officer replied,, "Suggest sending. There have

been stories around town about all this, and Thomas is


- 30 -

not the only person she has talked to...If memory
serves me, didn't LICOOKIE refer to Oswald and’ the
local leftists and Cubans in one of her squibs?" (CIA
No. 588, note from SW to COS.)

The Mexico City Station called the information in
Thomas' 12/10/65 memorandum of conversations to CIA
Headquarters (Cable from Mexico City to the Director,
MEXI 5621, date out off my copy; CIA Nos. 584-585).

The cable reported that Elena's story would be checked
with LICHANT/1, against the production from the Cuban
surveillance operation "and other sources." (Ibid.)
Winston Scott wrote, next to the routing indications on
the cable, "Please ask Charles Thomas if he'll ‘follow
up.' Get questions from Anne G. (Anne Goodpasture).
Please let's discuss. Thanks." (Ibid.)

After the December 10 memorandum of conversations,
Winston Scott (Chief/Station) and Nathan Ferris (Successor
to Clark Anderson as Legal Attache in Mexico) called
Charles Thomas for a meeting. They asked him to get
a more detailed account of Ms. Garro's story. At this
meeting Winston Scott made it clear that theFBI had full
responsibility for any further investigation in the Oswald
case. (State Department: letter from Charles Thomas

to William P. Rogers, July 25, 1969, JFK Doc. # -)


saree aa

3. Charles Thomas' Meeting with Elena Garro on December 25,

1965

Thomas met with Elena again on Decmeber 25, 1965.
That same date he wrote a memorandum of conversation
which provided a much more detailed restatement of Ms.
Garro's alleged encounter with Lee Harvey Oswald. (CIA
Nos. 580-583; Wx-7241, Entry #427, p. 92, CIA #719.)

Elena admitted that she had spoke to two men at
the Embassy, “presumably from the Legal Attache's Office."
(Ibid., The meeting occurred on November 24, 1964. See
supra, p. ) Elena said that she did not tell them
the complete story because "the Embassy officers did not
give much credence to anything she and Elenita said.”
(CIA Nos. 580-583; Wx 7241, Entry #427, p. 92, CIA #719.)

She stated that the party had been at Ruben Duran's
home. (Ibid.) She was unclear about the date of the
party. (Ibid.) It was a few days before the Soviet As-
tronaut, Gagarin, visited Mexico; she thought that this
would put the party around September 2 or 3, 1963. (Ibid.)
She believed that the party was on a Monday or Tuesday
because it was an odd night for a party. (Ibid.) Elena
could not check her calendar to refresh her memory at
the time of the interview because the calendar was in a

desk that had been stored away. (Ibid.)



setts Dera

During the conversation Elena described Oswald
and his companions. (Ibid.) The man who she thought
was Oswald wore a black sweater. (Ibid.) She said he
was quite "and stared a lot at the floor." (Ibid.) One
of his companions "was very tall and slender and had
long blond hair and a rather long protruding chin."
(Ibid.) Theother companion was also tall, with short,
light brown hair and no distinguishing characteristics.
(Ibid.) The three Americans did not dance or mix with
the other guests. (Ibid.) Elena saw the same three
men on the street the next day. (Ibid.)

Elena was certain that Eusebio Azcue, Horacio
Duran, Silvia Duran, Lydia Duran, Deba Guerrero, General
Ctark Flores and his mistress, a doctor from Dalinde
Hospital, a young American couple who were honeymooning
in Mexico, and several other people were at the party.
(Ibid.) She said that Ricardo Guerra, whom she claims
converted Horatio Duran to Communism, and his wife,
Rosario Castellanos, were supposed to be at the party
but did not attend. (Ibid.)

Elena alleged that the red-haired man and Emilio
Carballido were not at the party that Oswald attended
but at™ another party where Carballido and Azcue got into

a heated argument about President Kennedy. (Ibid.) "They


- 33 -

came to the conclusion that the only solution was to
kill him." (Ibid.) Elena was not clear on whether this
party was before or after the party where she met Oswald.
(Ibid.) The House Select Committee has been unable to
confirm the conversation between Azcue and Carballido.
(See HSCA Investigation of Elena Garro de Paz' allega-
tions.) Eusebio Azcue stated that the conversation did
not occur.

Elena reiterated that the incident at the Cuban
Embassy, where she and her daughter shouted "Assassins,"
etc. at the Embassy employees, occurred on November 23
at or about 3:00 p.m. (Ibid.) Elena and Elenita were
driven to the Cuban Embassy by Elena's brother who was
embarrassed by their behavior. (Ibid.) This occurred
before they’ had seen photographs of Oswald. (Ibid.)

Ms. Garro claimed that later in the day she and
Elenita were visited by Manuel Calvillo who thold them
that they were in serious danger from the Communists
and that he would take them to a small hotel, where they
would be safe, for a few days. (Ibid.) Elena said she
trusted and believed Calvillo because he was a known
undercover agent for the Mexico Government. (Ibid.)

He was also a friend of Noe Palomares (the Minister of

Immigration) and President Gustavo Diaz Ordaz. (Ibid.)



eee es

Calvillo also told Elena and her daughter that Silvia
Duran had been arrested. (Ibid:) Duran's arrest was
not public information on November 23, 1963.

Elena could not remember the name of the hotel
so that same day (12/25/65) she took Thomas to the sec-
tion of Mexico City where she thought it was. (Ibid.)
They found the hotel. (Ibid.) .Elena said that she as-
sumed that Calvillo had registered them as relatives or
friends. (Ibid.) They stayed at the hotel until the fol-
lowing Friday, November 30, 1963, hardly leaving their
rooms. (Ibid.) (See Legal Attache Report, p. for
confirmation.)

Elena claimed that while she anal Elenita were at
the hotel they saw the photos of Oswald and realized
that he had been the man at Ruben Duran's party. (Ibid.)
When Calvillo visited them at the hotel Elena told him
that she wanted to report it to the American Embassy,
however, Calvillo dissuaded her by stating that the Ameri-
can Embassy was full of Communists. (Ibid.) Elena stated
that when she returned home, guards were posted outside.
(Ibid.) (The House Select Committee has been unable to
confirm the veracity of Ms. Garro's claim. See HSCA In-
vestigation of Elena Garro's allegations.)

Elena alleged that after she returned home she saw

her sister, Deba Guerrera, who had independently come to



- 35 -

the same conclusion. Deba was "terrified" because
approximately two months after the assassination two
"Communists", personally warned her never to reveal

that she had been to a party with Oswald. (Ibid.) Deba,
consequently, would not accompany Elena to the Ameri-
can Embassy to tell her story on November 24, 1964.
(Ibid.) te

Elena stated that it was "common knowledge" that
Silvia had been Oswald's mistress. (CIA Nos. 580-583;

Wx 7241, Entry #427, p. 92 CIA #719.) When asked who
could verify the allegation she could only remember

one person who had told her this. (Ibid.) Elena claimed
that person was Victor Rico Galan, a “pro-Castro jour-
nalist." (Ibid.) (Victor Rico Galan is dead. The Com-
mittee could not verify Ms. Garro's allegation. Silvia
Duran denied the allegation. Nonetheless, LIRING 3, a
CIA asset, reported the same story in 1967.)

During these conversations Elena also said that
she "understood" that Oswald had been in Mexico more
than once. (Ibid.) (The HSCA has been unable to deter-
mine the exact date.)

Subsequent to December 25, 1965, Thomas wrote in
the December 25, 1965 memo: that Elena had found her ca~

lendar and had reconstructed the date of the party as



ciseeac V 4200

late September and not early September. (CIA Nos. 580-
583, Wx-7241, Entry #427, p. 42, CIA #719.) When Tho-
mas went to Ferris' office and informed him, Ferris re-
plied that Elena had given the late September date when
she had originally reported her story at the American
Embassy. (FBI Report, 9/30/69, pp. 3-4, JFK Doc. No.
However, Mr. Ferris explained to Thomas that someone who
had been at the twist party had stated that there were no
Americans there. (Ibid.) Mr. Ferris did not tell Mr.
Thomas that Ario Alejandro Lavagnini Stenius Ferris in
a 1964 interview had provided this information in 1964.
Supra, p. ) Mr. Ferris suggested that it was not
necessary for Thomas to pursue Elena's allegations since
he considered the Oswald case closed and had heard all
the rumors before. (FBI Report, 9/30/69, pp. 3-4, JFK
Doc. No. )

The State Department forwarded (the same day) a
copy of the Charles Thomas memorandum to the Central In-
telligence Agency's Mexico City Station to aid in their
investigation of the John F. Kennedy assassination.

On the first page of the memorandum of conversation
Winston Scott wrote, “Shouldn't we send to Headquarters?"
someone resonded, "Of course." (CIA Nos. 580-583; WX 7241,

Entry #427, p. 92, CIA #710.)


eee Fetcen

December 27, 1965 Legal Attache Memo to the United States

Ambassador re Elena Garro

On December 27, 1965 Nathan Ferris wrote a memo
to the Ambassador reporting that Elena and her daughter
were interviewed on 17 and 24 November 1964 by the Legal
Attache's office in Mexico City. (Memo to the Ambassador
from the Legal Attache, 12/27/65, CIA #578; WX-7241,
Entry 429, p. 94, CIA #721.) The memo recorded that
Elena and her daughter had furnished information simi-
lar to the informant reported in Thomas' 12/10/65 memo.
(Ibid.) The memo further stated,

"Inquiries conducted at that time (Novem-

ber 1964), however, failed to substantiate

the allegations made by Mrs. Garro de Paz

and her daughter. In view of the fact that

Mrs. Garro de Paz' allegations have been pre-

viously checked out without substantiation,

no further action is being taken concerning

her recent repetition of those allegations.

(Tbid.)

The Legal Attache forwarded a copy of the memoran-
dum to the Central Intelligence Agency's Mexico City
Station. (The House Select Committee has determined

that the copy was forwarded prior to 12/29/78. See


- 38 -

below.) Winston Scott superimposed a note to Anne
Goodpasture on this memo which read, "Can we send in

a report to Headquarters ‘dismissing’ our cable?"
Goodpasture responded, "Done." (Memo to the Ambassador
from the Legal Attache, 12/27/65, CIA #758, WX-7241
Entry #429, p. 94, CIA #721.) The cable Winston Scott
wanted dismissed was MEXI 5621. (Supra., p. )

A cable written by Anne Goodpasture on December
29, 1965 reporting the Legat interview with Elena and
the Legat Office's failure to substantiate Elena's story
was sent to Headquarters. (Memo from Mexico City to the
Director, 12/29/65, MEXI 5741, CIA #575; WX 7241 Entry
#430, p. 94, CIA #721.) The cable promised to keep
Headquarters advised if any further information were
to develop. (Ibid.)

LICOOKIE's 10/5/64 memo is attached to the 12/29/65
WX-7241 explained this in a marginal comment, "This
document by LICOOKIE was not in (Oswald's file), but
was copies from (a project file) and attached to MEXI
5741, 29 Dec. 65." (Ibid.)

A note stapled to this cable by Allen White stated,
"ZT don't know what FBI did in November 1964, but the
Garros have been talking about this for a long time

and she is said to be extremely bright." Anne Goodpasture



- 39 -

wrote that the FBI had found Elena's allegations un-
substantiated but that "we will try to confirm or
refute Ms. Garro de Paz's information and follow up."

Win Scott wrote, "She is also 'nuts.'" (Ibid., CIA #574)

CIA Investigation of Elena's Allegation that She Created

A Disturbance at. the Cuban Embassy on November 23, 1963

On February 3, 1966 Anne Goodpasture forwarded
Thomas' December 25, 1965 memo to the Cuban section at
the Mexico City Station with an attached note asking
them to check whether Elena was “seen creating such a
disturbance as they claimed in front of the Cuban Em-
bassy." (It is apparent that the Mexico City Station was
attempting to either refute or corroborate some of Elena
Garro's allegations.) (Note from Anne Goodpasture to
"Cubans," 2/3/66, CIA No. 579; WxX-7241, Entry 428,

p- 94, CIA #721.)

One Cuban section officer responded, "No bells
ring with me." Another one wrote, “Me neither." The
third officer wrote, "No pictures either." (Ibid.)
(There is no indication that the penetration agents in
the Cuban Embassy were queried about Elena's allegation.
Ibid., that there are not pictures is reasonsable since

Elena claimed that the event happened: 1) on a Saturday



4 Qc

at 3:00 p.m. when the Cuban Embassy was not normally
photographically surveilled; and 2) the "disturbance"
occurred inside the Cuban compound. HSCA Examination
of the CIA Cuban Embassy photographic surveillance

showed no surveillance on 11/23/63. (Classified Sum-
mary of Staff Review of CIA Documents, undated, p. 3,

CIA #763.)

Legal Attache 2/23/66 Memo to the United States Ambassador

Regarding Elena Garro's Allegations

On 2/23/66 the Legal Attache wrote a memo to the
Ambassador reporting that "extensive investigation"
failed to disclose that Oswald had traveled to Mexico
prior to September 26, 1963 and that no information had
developed that would show that he had not been in New
Orleans in the early part of that month. (Memo from Legat
to Ambassador, 2/23/66, CIA #571; WX-7241 Entry #455,

p. 95, CIA #722.) The memo reiterated that no further
action was being taken by the FBI because Elena's alle-
gations had not been substantiated. (Ibid.) The Legal
Attache forwarded a copy of this memo to the Central In-
telligence Agency's Mexico City Station. (The House Se-
lect Committee on Assassinations has been unable to
determine when the copy was forwarded to the CIA.) A
marginal comment made by Anne Goodpasture next to this

entry in WxX-7241 says, "How can it be ascertained that


por a ay

Oswald did not travel to Mexico prior to early Septem-
ber 1963? There must be some basis for Elena's report-

ing." (Ibid.; referenced to Thomas; 12/25/65 memo.)

Legal Attache Memo to Winston Scott re Elena's Allega-

tion that She Had Stayed at the Hotel Vermont from the

Day After the Assassination until November 30, 1963

On 10/13/66 the Legal Attache wrote a memo to
the CIA/COS reporting that a reliable confidential in-
formant had reported that the records of the Hotel Ver-
mont disclosed that "Elena Paz, housewife from San Luis
Potosi," had registered at the Hotel Vermont on Novem-
ber 23, 1963. She left on November 10, 1963. (Memo
from Legat to Winston Scott, 10/13/66, CIA No. 564;
W-7241, Entry #466, p. 98, CIA #725; Thomas’ 7/13/66
memo.) (The House Select Committee on Assassinations
has been unable to determine why the Central Intelli-
gence Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigations
waited until 1966 to investigate this aspect of Elena's
story.) The memo said, "The above individual may or
may not be identifical with Elena Garro de Paz. (Ibid.)

Charles Thomas' 12/25/65 memo corroborates Elena
Garro"sS presence at the Hotel Vermont. It states, "She

and her daughter did not personally register at the


Pay blees

hotel. She thinks Calvillo registered them as rela-
tives or friends of his from San Luis Postosi." (Memo
of Conversation by Charles Thomas, 12/25/65, p. 3,
CIA #582.) The entry for the 10/13/66 Legat memo in
WX-7241 bore the notation, "This is what Elena claimed
and no one would believe her." (WX-7241, Entry #466,

p. 98, CIA. #725.)

Charles Thomas' September 30, 1969 Letter to State Depart-

ment_and Legal Attache's Response

No further report on Elena's story was generated
until 1969 when Charles Thomas was "selected out." ("Se-
lected out" is a phrase used when an officer is retired
after having been in one grade for the maximum period
of time and is not considered qualified for promotion
to a higher grade.) At that time, he wrote a memorandum
to the Secretary of State which included a cover letter
stating, "Since I was the Embassy Officer in Mexico
who acquired this intelligence information, I feel a re-
sponsibility for seeing it through to its final evalua-
tion." (State Department: Letter from Charles Thomas
to William Rogers, Secretary of State, July 25, 1969)

“Charles Thomas’ memorandum stated that "he got no

reaction from Nathan Ferris and Winston Scott" regarding


- 43 -

his memorandum of December 25, 1965. (State Department:
Letter from Charles Thomas to William Rogers, Secretary
of State, July 25, 1969) "In addition, Thomas wrote
that the only person to speak to him about the Decem-
ber 25, 1965 memorandum, Clarence Boonstra (Deputy Chief
of Mission, State Department, Chief of Affairs at the
time of President Kennedy's assassination and subsequent
Oswald investigation) told him that Oswald had not been
in Mexico on the date given for the party. (Ibid.)
(State Department: Letter from Charles Thomas to William
Rogers, Secretary of State, July 25, 1964) Thomas noted
that even when he reitereated that Elena had not changed
her story but rather that she had now given a more ac-
curate account, Boonstra stated that the date was wrong
and dismissed the entire affair. (Ibid.)

One of the Mexico City Legat Officers, Nathan Ferris,
in reply to Thomas' letter and memorandum, asserted
that Thomas' office had been advised by memoranda that
Thomas' office had been advised by memoranda dated Decem-
ber 27, 1965 and February 23, 1966 that since Elena
Garro's allegations had previously been investigated
without substantiation, no further action was being taken
concerning her recent repetition of those allegations.

(FBI Report, 9/30/69, pp. 3-4, JFK Doc. No. ) In


aay Gs

their report, the Legat's Office concluded that either
the Counselor for Political Affairs did not route the
memoranda to Charles Thomas or that Thomas did not re-
call receiving them. (Ibid.)

Thomas wrote that when he went to Nathan Ferris'
office to inform him that Elena had found her calendar
and had reconstructed the date of the party as late
September , Ferris replied that Elena had given the
late September date when she had originally reported
her story at the American Embassy. (State Department:
Letter from Charles Thomas to William Rogers, Secretary
of State, July 25, 1969.) Thomas noted that Ferris
explained that someone who had been at the party had
stated that there had not been any Americans. (Ibid.)

He wrote that he had assumed that Elena could have clear-
ly been mistaken about the identity of the American

she saw there, but never doubted that she had seen

some Americans. (Ibid.) Thomas wrote that Ferris had
suggested that it was not necessary for Thomas to pursue
the matter since he considered the Oswald case closed
and had heard all the rumors before. (Ibid.

The Legal Office's reply to Thomas' memo stated
that Mr. Ferris had not told Thomas that someone who:was
at the party had stated that there had not been any Ameri-

cans present. (FBI Report, 9/39/69, p. 4, JFK Doc. No. )


- 45 -

The Legal Attache's memo asserted that Thomas had

been told that it would not be necessary for him to
pursue the matter any further since Elena's story had
been investigated previously without being substantiated.
(Ibid.) In addition, the memo stated that Thomas had
been told that Elena's story was considered a closed

issue, not that the Oswald case was closed. (Ibid.)

House Select Committee on Assassination's Investigation

of Elena Garro's. Allegations

The House Select Committee on Assassinations in-
vestigated Elena Garro's. story both through file reviews
and personal interviews. The Committee requésted and
reviewed the CIA's, FBI's and State Department's files,
when available, on Elena Garro de Paz, Elenita Garro de
Paz, Manuel Calvillo, Noe W. Palomares, June Cobb Sharp,
Victor Rico Galan, Eunice Odio, Sylvia Duran, Lydia
Duran, Ruben Duran, Betty Serratos, Horatio Duran, Eusebio
Azcue, and Emilio Carballido. Only the Elena Garro de
Paz file contained information on her allegations. Though
all the names listed above played a role in Elena Garro
de Paz' story, not one of their files included a refer-
ence to Elena Garro de Paz.

Furthermore, the House Select Committee on Assassina-

tions requested and reviewed the Central Intelligence



Agee

Agency's LICOOKIE I, LICHANT I, LIRING 3, LIHUFF I
and TICHBORN files. Once again, not one of the files
included a mention of Elena Garro's allegations. The
House Select Committee on Assassinations learned that
LICOOKIE I was June Cobb Sharp who first reported to
the CIA Elena's allegation. (Supra, p. 4.) The Commit-
tee also learned that LICHANT E-was Manuel Calvillo
who had hidden Elena Garro and her daughter in a hotel
the day following the assassination. (Supra., p. 13.)
He also told Elena that Silvia Duran had been arrested
before this fact had become public knowledge. (Ibid.)

Since a file review was inconclusive, the Com-
mittee decided to arrange interviews in Mexico with
Silvia Duran, Lynn Duran, Emilio Carbillido and Betty
Serratos. The Mexican Government. informed the House
Select Committee on Assassinations that Elena and Elenita
Garro disappeared in 1968 during the student uprisings
and have never returned to Mexico. The officials stated
that Elena and her daughter might be in Spain. (See
Mexico City Procedural Write-up Trip 1.) The Mexican
government reported that Emilio Garballido could not be
found. (Ibid.) The others were interviewed between
June l_and June 6, 1978. (Ibid.)

Betty Serratos, Lydia Duran, Ruben Duran and

Horatio Duran all stated that Elena was not the dancing



- 47 -

type and therefore did not attend any of the twist
parties at the Duran homes. (See" HSCA Interview of
Betty Serratos, 6/6/78, p. 6, JFK Document No. ;
HSCA Staff Interview of Lydia Duran, 6/5/78, p. 6, JFK
Document No. ; HSCA Document No. 7 HSCA
Staff Interview of Horatio Duran Navarro, 6/5/78, p. 25,
JFK Document No. ) When Sivlia Duran was asked
if Elena or Elenita Garro ever attended twist parties
at the Duran homes, she recalled Elena attending one
twist party at Ruben's home in 1963 when the Garros
returned to Mexico from France. (HSCA Staff Interview
of Silvia Tirado Bazan, 6/6/70, p. 90, JFK, Document
No. ) All the Durans denied that Lee Harvey Oswald
had attended any party at one of their homes. (String
cites.) 7

The Committee next asked’ the Central Intelligence
Agency to arrange staff interviews with LICHANT/1 (Manuel
Calvillo), LICOOKIE/1 (June Cobb), along with a list of
other assets who may have had information related to Lee
Harvey Oswald's trip to Mexico City. (
The Central Intelligence Agency declined to aid the Com-
mittee inthis aspect of the investigation.

The Commitee returned to Mexico City and attempted
to locate June Cobb Sharp and Manuel Calvillo. (See Pro-

cedural Write-up Trip 2 Mexico City.) The results of the


HA Brie

Committee's work were as follows:

The Mexican government told the Commit-
tee that June Cobb Sharp received a tourist
permit, number 72781, on June 27, 1947 when
she entered Mexico through Nuevo Lardeo.

She asked, but was denied, permission to re-

present the magazine, Modern Mexico. On

June 21, 1948, she received a courtesy per-

mit, number 25556. Furthermore, the Mexi-

can government explained that she disappeared

in 1954 and never returned to Mexico. (See

Procedural Writeup Trip 2 Mexico City.)

The Committee believes there is a possibility
that this information is incorrect. According to Ms.
Cobb's CIA file she worked for the agency as an asset
in Mexico from 1961 through 1966. (CIA Report, 1965,
June Cobb file, 201- ) Elena also stated that

Ms. Cobb resided at her home in 1964. (Supra p.

The Mexican government told the Committee
that Manuel Calvillo did not live at Cuohtemoc
877-5 as the Committee had informed them. Their
agent-in-charge had spoken to the superintendant
at the apartments at which Lamuel Calvillo was
believed to reside, the superintendent who had

worked at the apartments for twenty-five years,


= 49 -

said that no Manuel Calvillo had ever re-

sided there. When Committee staffers gave the

Mexican government Calvillo's pen name, the

Mexicans gave the same answers.

(See Procedural Write Mexico City Trip 2.)

The Committee is certain that Mr. Calvillo lived at this
address since it acquired the address from a recent CIA
document. (CIA Report, 1976, Manuel Calvillo file,

201- )

The Committee believes that there is a possibility
that the Mexican government received orders from the Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency to refrain from aiding the Com-
mittee with this aspect of its work. (See Procedural Write-
up Trip 2 Mexico City.)

The Committee made every attempt possible to locate
Elena. On July 7, 1978 a Committee staffer telephoned
her publisher Moritz in Mexico City and asked about her
whereab ats. (HSCA Staff Contact Report, 7/7/78, JFK Do-
cument No. 10016) The publisher stated that Ms. Garro
was living in the Hotel S.A.C.E. in Madrid, Spain. (Ibid.)
The Committee staffer telephoned the Hotel in Spain and
spoke to the manager who told him that Ms. Garro had
moved out. (Ibid.) (HSCA Staff Contact Report, 7/7/78,

JFK Document No. ) On July 14, 1978 a Committee



- 50 -

staffer called her publisher again and was told to con-
tact the Mexican Embassy in Madrid, Spain. (HSCA Staff
Contact Report, 7/14/78, JFK Document No. 9950) The
publisher stated that all Elena's payments were sent
there because she did not even trust her publisher
with her address. (Ibid.)

The Committee staffer called the Mexican Embassy
in Madrid, Spain and spoke to Adolfo Padilla, a Mexican
employee of the Embassy who stated that when Elena
visited the Embassy a couple of weeks before to pick
up a check she looked financially poor. (HSCA Staff
Contact Report, 8/31/78, JFK Document No. ) He
stated that when he asked Elena her new address she de-
clined to give one, stating that she would return every
few weeks to pick up checks and mail. (Ibid.) The Com-
mittee gave Padilla a telephone number and a message
asking Elena to telephone the Committee collect. (Ibid.)

On September 5, 1978 Elena Garro called the Com-
mittee staffer. When the staffer explained that the Com-
mittee wished to talk to her in person and would pay
both her daughter's and her travel from Spain, Ms. Garro
asked why she should believe the staffer was who he
claimed. to be. (HSCA Staff Contact Report, 9/5/78, JFK
Document No. ) The staffer asked Ms. Garro to call

back collect in the next few days when he could explain


eG pe
to her when and where she could receive a Committee let-
ter delineating why the Committee wished to interview
her. (Ibid.) The Committee wrote the letter and made
arrangements with the State Department for a letter to
be hand-delivered to Elena at the American Embassy in
Spain. (See attached letter: also, HSCA Staff Contact
Report, 9/5/78, JFK Document No. )

On September 7, 1978, Elena Garro called the Commit-
tee staffer and asked when the letter would arrive.
(HSCA Staff Contact Report, 9/7/78, JFK Document No. )
The Committee staffer explained that the letter could
be gotten on Monday, September 11, 1978 from George
Phelan, the Counsellor for Consular Affairs at the Ameri-
can Embassy. (Ibid.) Ms. Garro stated that she would
get the letter on September 11, 1978 and follow our
suggestions. (Ibid.)

Ms. Garro never went to the American Embassy in
Spain to get the Committee's letter. (HSCA Staff Contact
Report, 9/15/78, JFK Document No. ) The Committee,
hoping she would pick up the letter before her flight
date, proceeded to purchase air tickets for both Elena
and her daughter. (HSCA Staff Contact Report, 9/12/78,
JFK Document No. ) Elena did not get the tickets at
the airport. (HSCA Staff Contact Report, 9/15/78, JFK

Document No. ) The Committee was not contacted


by Ms. de Paz again.

The Committee also investigated whether Thomas'
“selection out" was related to the Oswald case. After
interviewing his widow, Ms. Cynthia Thomas, the Committee
has concluded that his dismissal was unrelated. (HSCA
Staff Interview of Cynthia Thomas, 1, Pe , JEK
Document No. ) cn

In sum, the House Select Committee on Assassinations
has not been able to confirm the evidence that would
indicate that Lee Harvey Oswald, on one night while he
was in Mexico, attended a "twist party" at the home
of Ruben Duran Navarro, the brother-in-law of Silvia
Duran. In addition, the House Select Committee on Assas-
sinations has been unable to confirm. the allegation
that Lee Harvey Oswald travelled while in Mexico City

with "two beatnik-looking boys."

D. Oscar Contreras

On March 16, 1967, B. J. Ruyle, the American consul
in Tampico, reported to the American Embassy that he
had spoken to a reporter whom allegedly had met Lee Har-
vey Oswald at National Autonomous University of Mexico
City (UNAM) in 1963. (American Embassy Incoming Tele~-
garm #A-43 570, p. 110, CIA #737) Stressing that he had

only a fleeting contact with Oswald, the reported had


- 53 -

claimed to know only about Lee Harvey. Oswald's desire
to travel to Cuba and the Embassy's unwillingness to
grant him a visa. (Ibid.) When B. J. Ruyle asked the
reporter for permission to cable the story to the Ameri-
can Embassy, the reporter declined stating that he
feared losing his job. (Ibid.) Subsequent to the assas-
sination, the reporter had told his editor about his
contact with Lee Harvey Oswald, who had advised him not
to report it. (Ibid.) The reporter granted B. J. Ruyle
permission to cable the story to the American Embassy
when Ruyle promised that it would be handled with the
strictest confidence. (Ibid.) Ruyle wrote that he
thought the reporter was genuinely concerned about his
job. (Ibid.)

A letter from B. J. Ruyle to the State Department
dated May 11, 1967 provided additional details of the
reporter's story. (Letter to Wesley D. Bowles, Chief of
Mexican political affairs, Office of Mexican Affairs,
Department of State from B. J. Ruyle, American Consul
Tampico, 5/11/67; WX 7241 entry #597, p. 114, CIA #741)
The reporter alleged that he and some fellow students
had niet Lee Harvey Oswald as they exited the Cineclub at
the Escuela de Filosofia (School of Philosophy) at the

National Autonomous University of Mexico. (Ibid.) Oswald


- 54 -

told the group that he had gone to the National Autono-
mous University of Mexico looking for pro-Castro stu-
dents who might help him persuade the Cuban Embassy to
grant him a visa. (Ibid.) Oswald claimed that he was
from California and was a member of a pro-Castro group
in New Orleans. (Ibid.) Oswald remained with the stu-
dents the rest of that day and évening, as well as the
following day. (Ibid.) The reporter described Oswald
as a strange and introverted individual who spoke very
little Spanish. (Ibid.)

On , the State Department forwarded
a copy of Ruyld's letter to the Central Intelligence
Agency. (The Committee could not determine when the
State Department forwarded the letter to the CIA.) On
June 14, 1967 CIA Headquarters sent the Mexico City
Station a copy of Ruyle's letter to Bowles. (Dispatch
from the Director to Mexico City, 6/14/67, HMMW 15557;
Wx 7241 Entry #616, p. 117, CIA #744) CIA Headquarters
considered Ruyle's report "the first piece of substantive
info about Oswald's sojourn in Mexico" since the assas~
sination. (Ibid.) Consequently, Headquarters cabled
that though they understood the source's relectance to
pecomeinvolved "the fact remains that this info cannot
continue to be withheld or concealed." (Ibid.) Head-
quarters instructed the Mexico City Station to elicit

the identity of the source from Ruyle. In addition,



- 55 -

Headquarters asked the Mexico City Station to bear in
mind, while interviewing Ruyle's source, that Lee Harvey
Oswald was a momosexual. (Ibid.) The final sentence of
the dispatch, "It is our hope that the facts obtained
through these interviews will help to confirm that
several of Garrison's allegations about involvement of
anti-Castro Cubans, the CIA, etc. are false," (Ibid.)
explained the Central Intelligence Agency's motives

for purusing the story.

On June 29, 1967, the Mexico City Station cabled
Headquarters that a station officer had gone to Tampico
where he had interviewed Ruyle's source, Oscar Contreras.
(Cable from Mexico City to the Director, MEXI 1950, 6/29/
67; Wx 7241 entry #622, p. 118, CIA #745) The cable re-
ported that Contreras was a reported for ElSol (a news-
paper, The Sun) in Tampico; was circa 30 years old;
married with three children; studied law at the National
Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) from 1960 to
1964; belonged to a pro-Castro group at UNAM; was per-
secuted by the Mexican police for this affiliation and
moved to Tampico to escape the persecution. (Cable from
Mexico City to the Director, MEXI 1950, 6/29/67; WX-7241,
entry #622, p. 118, #745.)

Contreras told the Mexico City Station official

that he and four other individuals (When Contreras was


- 56 ~-

asked to identify the other four individuals who had
met Lee Harvey Oswald, he refused to reveal their

names because he feared that informing on them might
endanger his family.) had met Oswald as they exited a
roundtable discussion held at the School of Philosophy
at UNAM. (Cable from Mexico City to Director, MEXI 1950,
6/29/67; MW 7241, entry # 622, p. 118, CIA #74S) Contre-
ras stated that Oswald had made inquires on the UNAM
campus about pro-Cuban groups and had been directed to
his group. (Ibid.) Contreras reported that though the
group initially mistrusted Oswald fearing he was a "CIA

provocation," they allowed Oswald to remain with them
that day and night and part of the following day. (Ibid.)
Contreras noted that Oswald never mentioned assassination
but kept emphasizing that he had to get to Cuba. (Ibid.)
In addition, Oswald had exhibited no homosexual tenden-
cies while he was with the group. (Ibid.)

On July 4, 1967, Headquarters cabled the Mexico
City Station that Contreras’ story should be explored
to the fullest even though he might have fabricated it.
(Cable from the Director to Mexico. City, 7/4/67, DIR
16823, WX 7241, Entry 626, p. 119, CIA #746) Headquarters
suggested that the FBI handled the story. (Ibid.) The

following day, July 5, 1967, the Mexico City Station

