# 180-10143-10184

## Page 1

180-10143-10184

SECREI summary

submitted

3/0/78

Box 28

Faldler 31

ITEM#6

aka Nick Barton

DOmInIcK E. Bartone

201

Uol 1 - Dec 359 - Sept 1960

" listed as"' all others" in 201 file Request Form

2: 201 File Request -

30 Dec 1959

DOB 8-8-13

11110079

comments " In as muchas hecarpies a

smuggler B

gun at all times

he is considered armed and dangerous.

Arrested by U.S. (ustoms agents, miami, for attempted

bribery and departure of munitons laden plan e

destined for Dum. Rep.

a- Cablel

4714-Aug 25, 1959- From

Director-I manager of

on Aug 214

that a Dominic Bertone, ottue is in Nat Bank

building, miami

, sent a lausyer @ a large am't cash in

satchel to open checking account

in panam a pet, city lok.

manager delayed acceptina accit. le indicated delet funas

connected with william morgan, u.s. citzen engaged in

revolutionary actruites Cuba. Request HQs interest.

Out96483

3- Cable

TOFBI tom DirCIA Aug 25, 1954

subj- Financial transactions of Dominick Bartere

28 Aug 1959- a fairly reliable source reported that

000245e person whom B. sent to Panama to open the account

was thief

Andrew Psalidas- law partner of Gregory

paniles,

Psaldas was carrying

a total of $80,000

CEOD

of which $ 15,000

were

$1000 bills, with the

THIS COPY IS NOI

FOR RELEASE.

180-10143-10184

---

## Page 2

SECREI

Bartone (cuntinued)

only authorized signatures on checks to be that of Dom inic

Bartone, and local legal rep was the form Ariad,

Fabrega, and Fabrega.

Orr. 41966 4-cable Augas, 1959

To From Dir

-source who attended meeting morgan @ cuban

counterrevolutionaries reports meeting held nome Dominic

E Bartone, 4a36 Chase Ave, miami BEdiA 007)

- same source reported murgan recerved # 14,000 trum

counterrevolutionaries for use against castro. Public accounts

morgan operation indicate he recelued only $ 75,000.....

HQS interested determine amount and whether morgan

holding out on castro, or it money to be used

as secret tund by castro to tinance other revolutionary

actions or

personal use.

0002457

0ut 90344

5-1 cable

Auy 22, 1959- TO FBI From CIA

subj

"Financial Transactions of Dominick Bartone."

source reported that on 10 Aug 1959 william Morgan

in miami

met with cubans appared to castru- meeting neld at

Bartones nume.

presentà morgant Lemus (ENu),

Ramon Dãas mestre, Antonio mendoza.

morgan. given $140,000 in cash toy mestre & Mendoza.

in march 1959, it was reported that

Bar tune was trying

to sell some Globemaster (6-74) aircraft to the Cuban

Revolutionary Ar Force & had, befrienced morgan.)

---

## Page 3

-3 - SEURE

oy source

It is believed

that the funds that the foo Bartone's

lawyer took to panama are cunnected @ morgar.

• HDa comment- morgan publicly declared in Havana

..that he had received

$75,000 from the counter-

revolutionares for use against Castro. The tunds sent to

Panama city may be the difference between the

amount declared by morgan and what be actually

recelved."

6 PACK 047a54 25 Aug 1959 possible Cuban Caunterteu

cross retcard- regarding association with morgan

and plot to kill castro'201-a51145 morgans 201

Dir - 00456

0002458

11110077

7- Document Transfer & cross Reference form -(nut utamant)

DBF 35804

29 0c+ 59.

Bartone said case against him in miami was being

I fixed.

was in possessiun of a checks fur 150,000

each drawn on fureign bank, issued to him by a

Batista group in compensation

tor arrplanes.- siting said

hestll had lo planes to dispose of. Sub i repurtedto

be connected with Teamster Union osficials in Cleu. Ohio

8: recross-ref. 5 may1960 Joseph charles Liquor: arrestech

Bartone for shipping weapons to Dom. Rep.

---

## Page 4

SECRET

VOl II

out 60- runec

Bartone- 2y Nuu 1960- DTR a33

Engaged in revolutionary actures in behalt of Dum Pep.

aHempted to illegally export une c-ay aucraft ammunition,

etc. Arrested, Was involved @max Garcia, Tampa, Fla., in

attempted exportation of one B-as type aircraft + large

quanhtyaf AT-6 aircraft parts.

Also rept, involved @

inuasion us cuba from Dom. Rap. prearranged by Trujillo.

voL I

July 61-sept 65

cross ref-

14 may 1963- Bartung associate of Herbert

J, morrisun

achutes.

reportedly involved in Haitian Rewlutunary

0002453

11110073

aSs requested into un Bartone un 8 sept 1965.

On 4 sept 1959- source indicated $60,000 hadbeen

withdrawn trom acc't by psaldas- "possibly to be

depositech in the French Banco Fiduciario in panamality.

reters to treasury Dept /Bureau of Customs, Division of

Investigaton and Enforcement memo

#23-944 dated

15 Nou. 1960.

SECRET

---

