# 180-10147-10267

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER

: 180-10147-10267

RECORD SERIES

: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 5

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

---

## Page 2

Date :

Page

07/08/95

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

180-10147-10267

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE: 10/25/77

PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS : WRASE, RICHARD

C.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICIIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH

DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/26/95

OPENING CRITERIA

:

COMMENTS : Box 3

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 3

WRASE,

Richard

Name or employee

, Address

Audrass

OFFICE OF THE CLERK

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD

1978

YEAR

Phone Number

DATE OF APPOINTMENT

10-25.77

ANNUAL LEAVE •

CATEGORY

1.0

Position Tille

pashion Number

Level

Step

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE

•Years a Months.

1.5

2,0

ACCRUED

THIS MONTH

AVAILADLE

THIS MONTH

Moath

DAY OF MONTH

ПО 42157711 122 3 23(23 2 25320/27 21

30 / 31

Annual.

Leave

Sick

Leove

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

Jan.

Fob.

Mar.

Арг.

May

Junc

July

AUZ.

Sept.

Cct.

Nov.

Dec.

BEAN

BALANCE BROUGHT

FORVIARD

FROM

PRECEDING

YEAR

Annual

Sick

Leave

THIS NOI

MONTK

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

BALANCC

AT CLOSE

OF MONTH

Annual

Lesy:

Sick

Leave

= 0.5 day annual Icavo

= 1,0 day annual leave

0.5 day sick leave

1.0 day sick leava

0.5 day administrative leavo

= 1.0 day administrative Icave

0.5 day unauthorized absenco

= 1.0 day unauthorized absence

= 0.5 day leave without pay

= 1.0 day leave without pay

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employco's Signatura

Dutc

(it employee refuses to sign, state reason bclow.'

Chiel's Signatura

Dale

Approved:

Clerx of the Housa

Dato

This there will to earned to Up opta, House the be of i camp ya ordina per so eminion, along

PANIBITI

---

## Page 4

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVE!

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Richard C

Employee Social Security Number

113-18-5784

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

Effective Date

7/15/78

Type of Action

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Title Change

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

• Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business_.

Specify Date

Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. • Standing Committee: Staff—• Clerical or • Professional.

2. I Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 255-_of 22 Congress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_.

If applicable, Level_

.. Step.

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date _

19

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS

STOKE

(if appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $.

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

ID

Benefits _

Payroll.

00 as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

---

## Page 5

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Richard C.

Wrase

Employee Social Security Number

October 25, 1977

Type of Action

113-18-5784

Employing Office or Committee

[ Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassi

ons

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

Staff Investigator

$24

1,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. _ Standing Committee: Staff -•] Clerical or [ Professional.

2. [ Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res._

465

__of_25th-Congress.

3.

• Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_

If applicable, Level.

.. Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date --

October

31

., 19]?.

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Louis Stokes

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $-

.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

---

## Page 6

MEMORANDUM

TO:

FROM:

DATE:

SUBJECT:

Mr. Blakey

Edward M. Evans /z

Chief Investigator, MLK

October 21, 1977

Richard C. Wrase,

Investigator, Martin Luther King

Task

Force

Mr. Wrase has agreed to take a position with us as

Staff Investigator assigned to the Martin Luther King, Jr.

Force.

He will start October 25, 1977 at $24,000.

EME: ek

O.K:

10-25-20

---

## Page 7

• .

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of

Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's

monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of

each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification

is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the

certification:

father

mother

son

daughter

brother

sister

uncle

aunt

first cousin

nephew

niece

husband

wife

father-in-law

mother-in-law

son-in-law

daughter-in-law

brother-in-law

sister-in-law

stepfather

stepmother

stepbrother

stepsister

half-brother

half-sister

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date

this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel

file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget

Office immediately of the change.

I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

[/ I am related

to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

(Please specify.)

Palini Wrase

Signature of Employee

10/22/27

Date

---

