# 180-10143-10449

## Page 1

180-10143-10449

ThIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

MEMORANDUM - June 28, 1978

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

# 009005

TO:

G. Robert Blakey

FROM:

Fonzl & Gonzales

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT:

AS SANITIZED

RE:

Interview with MANOLO RAY RIVERO

dob: June

13, 1924

Manolo Ray

was intervlowed on June 7, 1978, in the offices

of Ray and Assoclates, Eggineering Consultants, San Juan,

Puerto Rico.

Background file research indicates that Ray recelved a

graduate

scholarship from the Cuban Ministry of Publle

Works in 1947 to study clull engineering at the University

of Utah.

He returned to Cuba. In 1949 and was appointed

a designer for the Cuban Natlonal Development Corporation

and then chlef of Its structural department in charge of

bridges and highways.

In 1952 he became project manager

for Frederick Snare

Corporation of New York in construction

of the Havana Hilton Hotel.

In May, 1957, he organized

the Civic Resistance Movement. (MRC), an underground

organization which

supervised

acts of sabotege.agalnst

the Batista regime.

Following the Revolution, Pay was

appolnted Minister of Publle Works by Castro In February,

1959.

He officially resigned his position in November,

1959.

During the

Interview, Ray sald that he had been active In

anti-Castro activlty, organizing underground activity in

Havana, prior to his resignation as Minister of Public.

Works.

His brother, who

reportedly later committed suicide,

had been arrested by Castro In March of 1959 for counter-.

revolutionary activity.

Ray sald his anti-Castro

actlvity eventually led to his founding the Revolutionary.

Movement of the People

(MRP) around May of. 1960.

Among

those Ray mentloned as being also Instrumental: In the

founding of the MRP

were Rufo Lopez-Fresquet and Rogollo

Cisneros.

When asked, Ray sald there were no Americans Involved in the

founding of the MRP.

le sald, however, That there was one

who.had been.active..with him in ant/Batista operations and

later gave him support for his anti-Castro activitles. His

name was

1ra

wolfe.

• "He was very close to me personally and

we considered him Tike a Cuban," Ray sald. At the time,

volte was a salos representative for a kitchon equipment

firm and married to a Cuban.

After he left. Cuba, he was

dIvorced

and went to work for. what Ray described

as a

telephone company-related firm In Texas. He died there about

flve years ago at about 55 years old.

Ray described Wolfe

as tall, heavily bullt, with black hair and a round face.

180-10143104649

---

## Page 2

03.

2.

Although Ray sald he was not as close to him as

he was

to Ira Wolfe, another man who provided antl-Castro support

and was actlve on his own in anti-Castro activity was

Jolte's brother-in-law, the brother of his Cuban wife.

lay sald he didn' at the moment remember his first name,

but his last name was Rosello.

Ray sald he

had

known him

for a number of years

because

he worked for a

firm that

sold caramle tile and that he had sold the tile for the

tunnel through Havana which Ray had been

In charge of

building in the mid-150s.

Rosello, sald

Ray, was somehow

involved in the sale of weapons to

Israel.

Ray belleves

that Wolfe's ex-wife, Angela Rosello, may be living in

the Miami area..

Ray sald he had been In touch with Individuals connected

with the American Embassy In Havana both before and after

•The castra Revolution.

One contact he recalls was with

the first of which was around September, 1958.

Ray sald.

Hold him that he represented an agency

Interested in Intelligence and propaganda

and he wanted

jo exchange ideas and information concerning the 26th

of July Movement.

Ray sald he seemed particularly interested

in whether.or not there any Communists with Castro in

the Sierra Maestra.

After the Revolution, Ray sald, he recelved another request

to meet with.

about the time he went underground with

anti-Castro. activifles.

That was a general meeting about

what was happening at the time but It resulted in the setting

ip of a channel for the passing of messages between then

later.

Ray sald that

Idld not offer hi

any financial support

at the time, but he later promised equipment which was supposed

The equipment

The equipment never arrived and staters

the Escambray mountains.

told tan thee

was a "mix up!" sald Ray.

Ray sald he was unfamillar with and had no contact with

David Phillips or Col. Sam Kall at the American

Embassy.

Ray sald he first met Antonlo Veclana In Puerto Rico after

Veciana came Into exile.

his MRP movement at the time, Ray sald that Veclana's

• the timon

Although Veclana was a melber of

attempt to assassinate Castro In October, 1961, in Havana

was not officially planned or sanctioned

by the Movement.

Ray explained that, as the leader of the MRP, he did not

belleve that leadership assassination should

be a key part

of the Movement's strategy.

He sald It had too many "bad

aspects" to It

as a strategy, the principal one being it

mIsled the members of the movement into belleving

that tho

movement would be successful as soon as the opposition

leader

was removed. That, sold Ray, has a "weakening effect" on

a movement's over-all strategy and the reason why he never

mL

---

## Page 3

3.

sponsored a plan to assassinate Castro.

"However," sald

should not take the opportunity

Ray. sald tbat,

although he

knew of

him and his support of the MRP at the time.

never mat veciana in Cuba, „i know?

that ha was very close to Rufo Lopez-Fresquet, the

Minister

through Lopez-Fresquet he was able to get some contributions

to the Movement. I know he was very actlve."

Ray said that he heard through the underground that Veciana

was planning

the Castro assasgination attempt and that he

had gotten a bazooka for it.

He later heard that Veclana

himself had left Cuba the day before the assassination

attempt and that he later gave the excuse that he had to

helptsome people escape in a boat and that he had to jump

into the boat himself to do so.

"The story was that the

attempt falled because of the confusion that followed after

he left," said Ray.

Ray sald that there was

no indication at the time that an

American was behind Veciana's planning of the assassination

attempt.

knew of no

American that Veclana might have

been assoclating with

at the time.

Ray said ha could not

identify Maurlce Bishop, nor did his characteristics or

sketch resemble anyone he knew, although

he sald there was

some resemblance to a U.S. government officlal he met in

Tampa when he first arrived in exile.

He sald he met

at least four government officlals in Tampa while belng

put up in a motel there, but he wasn't told whother they.

were ClA or FBI.

Ray sald he doesn't recall even the name

given to him of the one who

resembled Bishop and he doesn't

recall. that it was "Blshop."

What Ray does recall about his

initlal debriefing In Tampa

when he entered the U.S. In October or November, 1960,

was that he was eventually told that a Mr. Frank Bender

wanted to talk with him.

Bender then arrived and he had

a long conference with him.

Ray sald he got the impression

that Bender.was mostly Interested In hls philosophy about

how Cuba should be governeen after the overthrow of Castro,

but: Ray sald he found It

a bit strange that Bender was

specifically Interested in the future of the King Ranch

In Ray's vision of the future of Cuba.

"I don't think

he liked my answer too much, " sald Ray, "because I told

him that the most Important

thing. was to develop the

overall economy of the country. and that, although I had

nothing agalnst

the King Ranch, they would have to contribute

more to the

economy of the country, I don't think he llked

that answer too

much."

---

## Page 4

4.

(When asked, Ray sald he was not famillar with the name

of Jack Malone who,

dith the King Ranch In Cuba.)

according to a file review, was associated

with the King Ranch In Cuba.)

Ray sald he subsequently had a number of meetings with

sender In Miaml, a few

of which concerned his and

ARP's lolning of the unlted frente prlor to the

Bay of

Pigs Invasion.

Ray was asked If he was

aware at the

time of the opposition of the ClA's political lialson,

E. Howard. Hunt, to his Jolning the Frente.

Iin his book,

Ray sald he was not specifically aware of Hunt's opposition

to him at the time.

E. Howard Hunt, or Eduardo, but ace that tet the cites

"Golden Boy," as he was known, Manolo Artime, had the

personal support of a very influential and powerful government

official whoa, Ray said he later found out, was Hunt.

Ray sald that Huntes portrayal of him in his book and of

his relationship to the. Frente was misleading.

Ray sald

he was not anxious to Join the Frente and that he resisted

doing so for some time.

"We were In touch with the leaders

of the front at the time," said Ray, "people Ilke Tony

verona, and we told them, why should we Joln and be so

"estralned as you, why should we want to become part of

the situation just to be like a poker chip with somebody

running the show and not knowing what you are fighting

for?"

Ray also sald that because his group was so well

organized within Cuba at the time and had deep underground

penetration, some other exile Cuban groups were also not

anxlous to welcome him in the front because they were afrald

he wold take control of it.

said opposition to him also came from

certain Influentlal

and wealthy anti-Castro Americans who saw

the Frente

a "soclal club" where they could have Influence and, If successfuls

reap their beneflts later In Cuba.

He specifically clted

ruflam Pawley as one such.

Ray sald he met Pawley only once.

"Af the time,

"he sald,

"there was a lot of heavy

propaganda

agalnst us going around Miami.

They were saying •Fidelissimo

sin Fidel' and that type of thing, accusing us of being

Communists.

•One of the mebbers of our organlzation happened:

to have an

office close to Pawley's and got to meet him and

Then arranged a meeting between us.

So 1 went to meet him.

It was

very Interesting because I found the man very arrogant.

We started discussing Cuba and the future. of Cuba and so forth,

and then he sald he was golng to be sincere with me.. He sald

he belleved that

when Fldel. was overthrown

It would

be. bettor

It 1 were assassinated

and that somebody might just do lt."

---

## Page 5

5.

Ray also revealed another instance concerning mention of

assassinating him.

That was shortly after March, 1961,

and the formation of the Cuban

Revolutionary Counsel was

announced, with Ray as a key

member.

Ray sald he had

a very close friend who had been a detective under Batista

and had also had contact with the FBl both before and

after the Revadution.

Ray chaaacterized the friend as

"a very honest man,"

despite the

fact he worked under

Batista, and one he trusted.

After the Councll was

announced, Ray sald, this friend called him and told him

he had been at a meeting composed of former members of

Batista's Bureau of Investigation, called BRAC, which

Ray characterized as "a repressive organizatlon."

Ray.

sald: "One of those at this meeting in this house in

Mlaml told my friend that they belleved that Castro was

golng to be overthrown by the United States and that

since I was getting too much power, they should eliminate

My frlend warned me that I should be caroful.

sald they made mention of using an American to do tho

job of killing me instead of a Cuban.

Even now i do not

If the ClA had

anything to do with that, or whether

Just this group of Batistahies." Ray

sald that

at the

time he was

told that. the leader of the group

was

named Faget (first

name unrecollected), who is now

dead.

(Ray sald he belleves his son Is working for u.s.

Customs In Mi aml.)

Ray sald he had heard of Frank Florinl about that time

but he never met

"I heard of florini," he said,

"and I. was told that

he was something like

an adventurer,

a man of action with many contacts, but I had no direct

knowledge of him.

He was Involved more with the Batistlanos."

Ray sald he knows of no rolationship between E. Howard

Hunt and Frank Fiorinl at the time.

Concerning the Castro assassinatlon attempt in Chile In 1971

organized by Antonlo Veciana, Ray sald he was not

associated

with it nor did he know of anyone, except for veclana himsel!

Involved with It who had prevlously worked with him.

He was

told, however, that Luis Posada may have been Involved, and

he remembers Posada as someone Cisneros once recrulted

for

an Infiltration mission into Cuba.

"Later," sald Ray, "I found

out he was so close to the ClA l decidod not to use him

anymoro. "

Ray sald he does not know Lucilo Pena. or his

Involvement in the Chile attempt.

Speculating

as to who could have Introduced Maurice Bishop

to Veclana, Ray sald there is the possiblllty that Ruto

Lopez-Fresquettcould have boen the link without knowing

It.

"Rufo Is a good friend of mine," sald Ray, "but he

---

## Page 6

б.

usually talks too much to be directly invorved in

clandestine

activity.

But at the time Rufo had very

close

assoclation with high government officlals and

the CiA and

I know that he

and Veclana wore very

good

frlends and

In the same business sphere.

would

say he

may have

mentioned

Veclana's name to some of those people

and they contacted

Veclana

as a result, knowing from

Rufo of Veciana's feelings about Castro."

Ray's feelings. toward Veclana took a negative turn In 1972,

he said, when he was organizing the Parte Partido Revoluclonario

de Pueblo (People's RevolutIonary Party) In Puerto Rico.

This was, said Ray, a great effort to reinvigorate the

anti-Castro movement.

Ray said that Veciana wanted to

become part of the group. "At that time,"

know he was working in Bollyla and traveling around

"we

Latin America and we thought he could be of help to us."

Ray sald that Veclana promised that he could get $10,000

to contribute to the movement, but the money was never

produced:

"palmost as soon as he joined," sald Ray,

"he began particlpating In an attempt to divide the

movement.. He made a declaration accusing us of being

In consortment with Castro and he knew that was a lie.

Everything he sald was just so unbellevable and he had

things printed about me In Replica accusing me of everything.

He just made everything up.*

Ray blames Veclana for

the

lack of success of the

movement and says he does not

understand why he attacked him.

Basicalyy, he

sald, he

bollaves Voclana Is an opportunist.

Ray was asked if he was famlllar with the Moa Bay Mining

Company.

He said he was.

He recalls a meeting around

June, 1959, when he was still In Castro's cabinet. "We

would meet at the Banco International everytThursday in

the afternoon :with.a group that dealt with the economie

problems of the new government," he sald. "Lopez-Fresquet

was the Flnance. Minister at the time.

At one meeting..!

remember Regino Botl, who was Minister of Economics, said

that the people from

Moa Bay had contacted him to see what

could be done with the government to re-establish their

operation.:. They had about a $70 milllon Investment. But

Castro sald not to deal with them because they had

worked

700:

close with the

Bat$sta government."

Ray was asked.lf

he remembered where he was on November

22, 1963.

Around that time, he said, he was spending most

of his time in Puerto Rico but flying regularly to varlous

countryes: in Latin America..

The day that Kennedy was killed,

he said,

he was-at a JURE moeting In Caracas,

Group leaders

from varlous countrles were there, he sald, and he remembers

the assistant to the President of

Venezuela coming in after

lunch with the news that President Kennedy was

shot:

-more

---

## Page 7

7.

Ray sald he also recalls that Rogello Cisneros was at that

JURE teeting.

When told that a file revlew

revealed that

Cisneros was

reportedly scheduled to be Involved in a

pick-up of a chebe of arms on Regaldo Cay on November 23,

1963, a date which

was changed to November 25th at the

last minute,

Ray said he recalled generally such an

operation. "We had a boat In Costa Rica and

we were supposed

to pick up some weapons. there but there was a mix up. l

can't recall the details or the date enactly," he said.

"Actually, Cisneros was the coordinator of such operations.

I was Informed of them, but he was the direct coordinator

after they were Improved."

Ray was asked

about his relationship

with Andrew St. Georgo

according to flle roview, was with him on an attempted

Infiltration into Cuba.

"I think I first met him in Havana,!"

sald Ray, "when he passed through there on the way to the

Sierra Maestras to see Castro.

I met him several times later

when I came into exile and we exchanged information and

ideas.

• He has something about him, a sincerity, that 1

lika. "

Ray said he was not aware of the close relatlonship between.

St. George and MItchel! Livingston WerBell 111.

Asked If he had ever had any dealings with Werßell,

, Ray

"The sunavabltch.. I would like to punch him in the

nose, If you will forgive my saying that."

Ray said his

feelings about WerBell are based on an Incident that happened

In the Dominican Republe In 1965.

AT the time, after two

rallures, a final major Infiltration operation Into Cuba

wes being planned.

"This was to be the first of a series

of long

and slow

steps to bulld a permanent opposition

movement against Costro inside Cuba. This was supposed

to

be a very significant operation, not Just another quick

rald. "

Ray sald he had already had his share of problems

with the operation before his encounter with Werßell. Originally

It was to be based out.

of Costa Rica, but political problems

developed there and he had to move the operation out. He

made arrangements to send the Infiltration boat, the

Venus,

on to the Dominican

Republic with its grew to set up a base

Meanwhile, a supply of arms that were especlally

fabricated for JaBE

In Callfornla were solzed in Callfornia

(They had beon financed, sald Ray, by a major "Buy-A-RIfle-For-

$92" campaign among Cuban exiles; more than $100,000 was

ralsed.)

Then came the revolution In the Dominican Republic

and the appearance on the scene of Mitchell WerBell. Ray

sald he frantically made arrangements with the Venezuelan

government to move his base of operations there and sent $750

of his personal money to the crew of the venus for fuel to

move the boat as

quickly as possible to Venezuela and out from

between the warring

factions In the Dominican Republle.

Howevor,

-mOre

---

## Page 8

8.

what he later discovered

See about done are dad any fertedoroot

Jose Rabell, to convince them to go to Mlaml with the

Instead of Venezuela. That, of course, aborted the

infiltration operation.

"That's how WerBell stole our

boat from us," sald Ray. "After that our whole effort to

get going agaln falled. By that time I was completely

Ray sald he never did find out why Werßell was

In the Dominican Republle of why he stole the boat from

"I bellove he was a ClA man," sald Ray.

Ray sald he

eventually wound up giving the boat to Nino Diaz

for his

anti-Castro operations.

Ray was asked about the Ineldent concerning the vislt of

"Leon Oswald" to SIlvia Odio. Ray sald that when he was

first questioned about it by the FBI, he was asked mostly

about his feelings about her rellabillty and

accuracy.

"They told me

that she sald she had met Oswald," he sald.

"I don't remember them telling me. that the men who came to

her said they were members of JURE and were Interested in

Duying arms.

i don't think that was toid to me.

i toid

them that I knew she had some domestic problems and that

she was under. emotional strain from her divorce when she

was lIving here

In Puerto Rico, but I told them I would

say she was sane.

I think she

was

a good person, a very

bright person and a sane person."

Ray was asked if he was ever told that Silvia Odlo's syster

also saw the three men who visited her apartment.

seemed surprised. "I never did know thatl" he sald.

"That

to me has a lot of bearing. They never did tell me that.

This is the first time I learned about that."

Ray sald that at the time he knew of no members of JURE

going through Dallas In search of money of arms.. He

does not recall.

anyone by the name of Leopoldo. or Angelo

assoclated.wlth JURE at the timo.:

Ray sald he had no

American contacts. In Dallas

or major financial support

from anyone there.

Ray also

sald he did not recognize or had no assoclation

with individuals of the following names:

Justin McCarthy,

Bernardo DeTorres, Sam Acosta, Larrle Schmidt, Robert

Morris,

Tony Storza, Warren Frank and David Morales.

He also sald he had no assoctation with Laureano Batista

but heard that Frank Florint was working with him at one

time.

---

