# 180-10143-10116

## Page 1

180-10143-10116

No let Seit to

Crite

000/33

Hold in

TINS COPY IS NOT

SECRET

FOR RELEASE®

Hardway note

file

Mickey olds mith opened.

the interview by explaining

the release letter and the

mate the More elist

toDillenger and Sestetner.

Mulbestetner Haid tha

he haid been the heard of the

soviet lection of the Merico.

City ltation in 1965.

His main

luty.was to get informaton a

sorret personnel and thei

activities for recognition

purposes and espionage/

counter-espionage activities

In line with these goals Mr

I Statetner iças responsible

boriet personnel My nattier

personnel and thorough

agents.wch.were.in.contact

irth barret Fits fonnel

_ RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Quiy

Do Noi Reproeve

70703-4016

---

## Page 2

_ SECRET

000134

tom betters attention

Mro Dillenger remembered

that they reaieved all the

This included the spanish

and the English Transcripts

although the English.

then the ally aired later

Mot Dillenger indicated that

she had.o.

ofspanich. 8.

"working knowledg'"

Mo bestether twas

responsible for reporti

---

## Page 3

000135

SECRET

3

In 1963 Mrs Dillenger 2

cripts were read dail

as a matter of routine. She

phato production was not

reviewed untess.anne

boodpasture.refer@o.it.to

the tales reced congr

carton copies of the transcripts

on yellow paper. extracts

from. the transcripts tver

put into appropriate surges

on "P" files.

that a chronological bail

Soth weres

toof. transcupt.was.kep

They were less sure but

thought that such. a fil

wa.also.kept.on.th

production of th

files were designated Vy a

---

## Page 4

SECRET

4

0136

indicated that materials

aer probably datrayed

he left in 1969

Frank estancomos

sale transipto meen

nglish. Mv. Bestetner

ndlicated.that.he.had.a

close working relationsh

with Boris da

nasaff.and

ley an him or persont

personnel: He said that he

---

## Page 5

SECRET

-5-

013>

photo surveillance was

matian being prepared

personalitiest derments orally

---

## Page 6

SECRET

-6-

0138

broken Russias

with Anne Goodpasture

n things of interest. The

was not case contac

between the Cuban and

sorret Operations.

saw all. the tran

notations on. the transcripts.

as a vile he made his

notations in a seperate

sated contama sette?

did maice that carrato

---

## Page 7

SECRET

-7-

0139

make mananalisments.

I Sarasaff susas an exact

trapscist,

5, Re never detemai.

hisown as to

whether.something.was

relevant to counter-intelli

gence, counter-espionege, eto

conse, indicated that everyo

They could not recall the

Thai said that the

Haps were not

directed at the soviet

embassy.

Mo. sestetner said that

gert ere to penetration

onsulate or military

Attachis offices.

= Dillengerfand bestetner I

said that.thEcEfad.no

Im-i

---

## Page 8

SECRET

-&-

0140

contacts were restricted.

to sacial meetingo, discus-

sionof personality.evalua

tions, and on rareoccasions

transmittal of the tapes ar

transcupts mo bestetner

indicated that he involve

I Farasaff more than an

other translator and that

he was more than

adiscately competant,

both said that

hey bath said that

the rat he we then o

hady remembered that hit I

I shaw as Chief af Cuban

operations but were

unsure of the time They

---

## Page 9

SECRET

_9÷

0141

he was close to Min Scott

hey said tha

inards uras professionally

santia for photog ta

the embassy

I Dillen

said that!

ndfbestetner.]

wat

the bead. of. the Mexico desk

und that Charlatte Bustas )

So the best of their recollection

lso worked.ow the Mexico

deck. They said that the mee

got sly reported would

" have gone higher unders

there. was some.con,

or higher interest involved.

Ureportaf.a foreigner visiti

a foreign. easy.could,

not,

0M.2

---

## Page 10

SECRET

0142

10

int Mo bestetners opionion,

mepad masalmont

y routine, espcialle

I they said that!

[ McRa

yasaw.anatyst.in

ubrans

section.

the "clicke" that enjorjed.

catts absolite confrotence

and was mivolied in.

I the sensitive surterllame

aperations, SECRET

---

## Page 11

SECRET

0143

Ro Feld.

arellance team

volved in

mostaf the

operations, if

atall of th

I Mr. Sestetner said that

re-use.

" Mr. Sestetner said that

Fararaff. would routinel

identify partici

come sant pa could and.

the transcript. 'He does nat

recallevevenstructing Tanaso

not to make marginalcome

SECRET

7M2)

---

## Page 12

SECRET

-12

0144

ingas intelligenes

officers

af.how-@swald.first.com

to their attention Dillenger

indicated that her memory

was that the her ste had

had

.. was from a traw-

sriptaf.@swalds conver.-

sation thougamoon.

Theyes the hanst

---

## Page 13

SECRET

-13-

0145

E sillenger did. not recall

this t

ranscist as the

first one she saw. After

seeing the cable the sent to

HQow 1018 she said that thi

transcript must have freer

the one becourse of th

similarity of the va

of the infor When

reference too visa in the

conversation; she acknow.

legded that there was not

sucha reference. Whewasked

am. to Mashingtoy

and the fact that he was

calking to the consulate ha

made it obvious to he

have had already

dand

the prio tranchested them

Because of the absence of

---

## Page 14

SECRET

14

0146

some of the prior traw.

tron of some of the

rout

knowledged writin

- Dillenger )had no, recattectio

cable (MEXi 6453) and, at the

---

## Page 15

SECRET

15

0147

p" file was in his hand-

made at the time that

connection between the

conversations was noted

prion to the assassination.

pre Thent ellenger was

asked about the paragraph

m Meri6453 about th

photo she said that she

must have checked the

photos. She was showna

a photo ugs chosen bron

since Asiald had indicated

intercept core atiatio

---

## Page 16

SECRET

-16-

D148

afe have hat evened

that boatt had peculated

y'to indicate

---

## Page 17

SECRET

=17-

0149

spoken to Kostikor she

said that the could not

remember but she was

she he mint have

proof, as otherwise she

would.

not have used

---

## Page 18

SECRET

18

0150

then

did sang to get Shee

no need

those other details."

enland

sestetner said that i

was ver

thas very unlikes that

with Dave Phillips

I bestetnerJacknowledged

a photo of is seeting

not recall recrevino

response to this cable When

asked whether he hadever

heard that, ovany

to the efbest that sumery

as photo of Oswald Restetier )

first answered.

in the

positive. He then retracted

isanswer.and denied ever

vitat hearinga

~ photo bestetner said that

if.HQ.had.@photo.of@swald

taben bya terkpist in Russia

---

## Page 19

SECRET

19

015z

indobtained by. OCD. that

he would expect it to be in

the so the back now badged

He noted that the inference

was that the date was

September 28.,

Neither/Sestetoner nor

(billenger/could recate

specific detail, about the

this sinusualSECRET

---

## Page 20

SECRET

-20-

015P-

I sestetner, said that

he did not know whether

the concertation of 9/28

was reported before on

that this senter lion had

beenicannestattanwald

Mexi 7033

nowledged

said that all infor

available had been

reported when, the 9/27

concentions, the The t had

= whr

- Mexi 7034,

9/28/63

[ Sestetner acknowledge

that it would have been

have intele on 40 to

visited the Embassies

at least o times and not have

been picked igoly the photo

---

## Page 21

0153

SECRET

aperation

sestetner continually

ramphasiged thathHO's

visit + the report was

a rautine matter. He said

it was to dispite to d

soviet embassy alone. is

enough to rule aut the

When shown the

seriously transcribed!"

---

## Page 22

0154

pery unusual that

the 10/10 DIR

lo to the possibility

re daud

Agency involvement

to discuss amy of what

them with a mon

ame

staff members

SECRET

---

