# 180-10147-10263

## Page 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

....

: HSCA

: 180-10147-10263

: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

- -w

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 5

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

---

## Page 2

Date:

Page

07/08/95

1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER

180-10147-10263

RECORDS SERIES

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

HSCA

FROM

TO

TITLE :

DATE: 09/06/77

PAGES: 5

SUBJECTS : WALKER, ROBERT J.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 10/26/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : BOX 3

[R] - ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

---

## Page 3

WALKER, Robert

Name of Employce

, Address

Addross

OFFICE OF THE CLERX

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD

1978

YEAR

Phone Number

DATE OF APPOINTMENT

9-6-77

ANNUAL LEAVE •

CATEGORY

1.0

Position Title

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE

Posiion Number

Level

Stop

1,5

2.0

ACCRUED

THIS MONTK

THIS MOXT

MONTH

Menth

DAY OF MONTH

122430

8 1 1 13 15 67 7 18 1 20 21 23 23 21 23 20 27 38 ED 30 31/ Leave

Sick

Leave

Annuat

Leave

Sick

Leave

Jon.

rob.

Mar.

Apr.

May

Junc

10

July

10

11

AUB.

Sept.

Oct,

Nov.

Dec.

BALANCE BROUGHT

FORWARD FRO!

PRECEDING YEAR

Leig

SICK

THIS NORTH

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

BALANCC

CLOSE

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

NON

= 0.5 day annual leavo

1.0 day annual leave

0.5 day sick leave

= 1.0 day sick Ieave

0.5 day administrative leave

= 1.0 day administrative Icave

0.5 day unauthorized abserco

= 1.0 day unauthorized absence

0.5 day leave without pay

= 1.0 day leave without pay

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employco's Signatura

(If employee refuses to sign, state rcason below.!

Chiel's Signatura

Date

Approved:

Clerk of the House

Dato

This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along

with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employce's official personnel folder.

EXHIBITI

---

## Page 4

MEMORANDUM

10: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

Expenses of commitees,

Expenses of converg, that among one things he Commote oF

monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of

each employee to any current Member of congress. This

certification

is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the

certification:

father

mother

son

daughter

brother

sister

uncle

aunt

first cousin

nephew

nicce

husband

wife

father-in-law

mother-in-law

son-in-law

daughter-in-law

brother-in-law

sister-in-law

stepfather

stepmother

stepbrother

stepsister

half-brother

half-sister

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date

this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel

file.

this status changes. you must notify the Committee's Budget

Office immediately of the change.

INJ I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Menber of Congress.

I/ I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

(Please speciry.)

Kabut walker

Signature of Employee

Sept 6,1972

---

## Page 5

MEMO RANDUM

TO:

Mr. Blakey

FROM:

DATE:

SUBJECT:

Edward M. Evans

Chief

Investigator,

August 26, 1977

Robert J. Walker ER

MLK

Mr. Walker has agreed to take a position with us

as Staff Investigator assigned

the Martin Luther King, Jr.

Force.

He will start

September 6, 1977 at $24,000.

EME: ek

O.K•

8-19-20

---

## Page 6

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVE.

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Robert

Employee Social Security Number

260-40-7319

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

Effective Date

July.

1978

Type of Action

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Title Change

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

• Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business__

Specify Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. • Standing Committee: Staff—• Clerical or • Professional.

2. [ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 256-of _25 t_Congress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

•If applicable, Level

Step.

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date_

78

19

LOUIS

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

STOI

(if appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

Monthly Annuity $-

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

ID

Benefits -

Payroll

00

as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

---

## Page 7

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Robert

9/6/77

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

260

40

731

Employing Office or Committee

Assassinations

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

Staff

Invest

or

$24,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff -[ Clerical or [ Professional.

2. [ Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res._-

-of_22 th

Congress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_.

If applicable, Level _

.. Step_

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date -

-, 19

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Loufs Stokes

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee

em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code...

Monthly Annuity $

.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

---

