180-10144-10409}

ae a

it © 9EORED

“Morman Rothman Tackusive_caties = 145)-1475

~ nee ROFHMAN_I's__Cheracterizecd_oo_+he_aOl_hie cepiew.

fore O.—'Morenec...uwiting collaboratat Crelahas hsp 7

———.. Secermmnatea).._The_20)__Ale_woas_(euieweel_in_192.
4

--An Oc IS_,195.9 cable states that oo Foew anh=Castro_|

~8fganichon__uoith headquacters_(n__m.uams__a* the Biltmore

Teceoce Rotel is managed by Rorhmen “whois supposed +o
rr POW IIR, SOUL A ADIUW US. Gangsters Sur quns_and_othec__.

AD Oct!

Weapons.” JASA_ coble indicates that Bothmeo__

a under_indictmeotin_Pitsburgh fue the Toterstate.

a Tans portGnhon_of_ stolen Aro. A Peo. 10, 1459. cables

states thet Rothman ts "going_re_Yucatan.,.mexico.__

on tO seek a sie Fura bae__ofoperanuns Againsd the
Castro goutJt A Dec 31,1959. cableceports that._|

afiee Rothman_returned frum... mexco. Cihp he. statect,

— "We have @ shop Acompatniot of Rothman, Eduardo. __

a ehouse._"s_ 1 Ole eM sard_touremark.+het "we

- have. the elanes.”..Thé..cable_states" Behevea that. both

“Subj. Cra. Rothman]. ana Whitehouse are acquirin g.planes__
{pe purepore of setting up bare_of_operahuns_in Yucatan...

Pemnsula for anti- Castro group headed by. Col. Orlande

Piedra and... Roberto Fernandex, Miranda...”

|

|

A cable dated Feo § 1960 reports. that..Rorhmen, has. been.
relemed trom the Allegheny Coun hy Jar} alec. an appeal. pond _
Was posted. A June ..93 1960. Cable repor ¥$_. thet Lothmen._

Ws conuicied. of . interstate trans portandon...of. firearm)... stolen _

from the Marional. Guard Armory 1. Canton, ONG». Bena

recerwed aS year. sentence .advtt, A 10,000 hoe ed

- ye

/80 - IOI - 009


A__Sept_a7,1260 cable to the prrectuc._frum_| Cosas) _

S020 tiatentte "|, FY _has_adused_of approach made toe Frank |

tot: hoo MEG orcraft which would be

roca

fue procuremen

brow fo states bp ook Cech dnd_one_Cuban_eilet. Approach |
Me PP!

hook indicted tee |

ade, —by morman_Rorhman_who.

—-————-gua-tuaning ands toler_bonos currently ovt_on $50,000 beads
A j

2. F8T__comtach et Rothman interest _was_siraight proht.mohvect;

-hopetor favorable sreatment._e aboue_£a.p._ Contact-stateda..no_

co i enente_whatenee— late. And. thack..nad_adinsed roe ih 1 that. BT.

_could_not_ handle sich. 0,.deal_borwoulch_pass_to_orher ineteneck _|

— lus ge O+.agency...Said Anat nspr¥e. oF abae.decag ria believed _eaihrnan _|
- “
sa Comb very probably_proaucé. = - ——

- i "3. Hos_ Has Gary satecest_eucsuc

Head quariecs__responded.om..Sept..a& 1960 (Die 6 aa7a.) fee

tah gy, Tt Ref pare.4.. plan_involves defechon. of MEG.
ONL C2eCK pilot from Cubs... HQs._unlally interes bea,

| Paune_all_gectnent details.”

fespondek on Oct 1519.60 CmasH 084)

——iew..Rorhman.forthooming.mal_tocal_AB2._feels___|

_.. Tushee_Deeuctment.__be_ advised prior any cLA_contact subs 4

Thi _to_prevent. Ony.complicahun _ prosecuhon vf op.sacceeda

Ona. RorhHMan. GHhempts...make.deal re possible prison term.

2... Pee selecon aa seet_ _aduited HQs_ Sanhago

. Rey also -APPFOAched...by ROThMan vo. th sam e_pian. ret AL
[ems prams « TFHQs decided. go ahead withops, MASH plan
Make Contact. through. Raye

This cable was. foilowed.b.4 acts:

from, dakea.oct a0,1960.Q __‘|il6a)_s.tahng



shu eter 2 4 7

» SEGRE ace

Request copies tm rets (eeferencas_ate_masit coat’)
mast 0891), F

BI_still_ha, open ase..care Ret A and _hes___

—-——--— ea Nech__several hme, _Also_d erice give _parhueaniwer 20.

a San hage Rey. —on_ced &7..__No_.tes ponding cable from. Wag.
contained in_thi_ hile.

he file contained chw.o_Memucend a_foc the _fecora.prepacecd_|
/

¢ Ky “} aated. -Tune..30146L_and Suly to la).

— me. dune. 30. 30_.memo___cen tains +he_followin g—unformahu:

PoB.1s_ Bronx NY. _

_ when Rothmao- Sirst_came_to_ci a's _attenhon_in.__|
!

2 Sep 19585 he-was_huing. in

pirsacrt —Dallas_,Texas aadiwas_______|
~-,Meged ly, —engagedin_public_celahons_worke. Aecarding ro. his unk
ou Gloria, \pe-made@.o one-week trip to. Los. Angeles in Sept ember—|

On_undisclaea business, 4

“
fe OE, Oh IIS, Rothman, was. managing the Biltmore

= A A , by
_Tecrace Rote) 1A mmiam strom whch... he. war repoedty she Fer.

_ 12 be supplying -an anh-Cartre...orgamzahon_.wAh.arcens... ahieh___

ene AR ODFAINCA.ANEOULG WMS QGNGSIELS «.-

i

d= Following, PHtsburgh conviction, Rothman.went.te__.

Chicago.,.Where Ae surrendered on chzrge of playing okey role.

10. one.of the biggest. ..robberie)_in..modern.ctiminel..history.., the _.|

HIBS tien loating oS.a Canadien Bank. sss Robbery was.

touched..of f..when the... Canadian. branch..of the mafia. received. a.

harey 2 4p-ofdee..frorn. the..caribbean twr.aems.,.cthe.Canadizn...

maha did not have the money 4o..buy.ownns, bub _st kn eo boro

get. hangs onthe contents of the Grockville_,Ontario bank...

Tt caMled. upon. the US... maha..forasistance sand 14 was thea

thar Rothman. entered the ess sit yas cher ged .% Subsequently
SE

PURE]


——-- pot-hon}_of loot _turnedupin Shanghai, Prgenhns, Cu, bal
10—She. :

a OO Pus bre de” =

€= Befo.ce__Rothman was tracked dowo.in_connechenusththe_absve__|

COMES, hea. __feporked_py..the FT _as_+ravel Ang —te_Yucatan.to__|
a CK OLEof _aparathons _against.+he_Cartro_qov+.Jo this.enter=__|

—--—- pt.ise_he_w00s _associased iti (Tedd 0) .wrdenowe Ini ua Sormecty |

i :
——__ot-the._.cuban_GuilAeronauhcal_Associzthunsyex=Colonz |

i oP edre._Neg weruele Y hye enec__mem ber_of_ BRAC and.

-hend_of_ Cuban Bureau_ofTnveshgorhena.”, and Colonel Roberto. |

——_—__Fesnandez. Miranda rrother-in-leuw of Bashsta_andformer |

cammonde@r,.of the _prendenhal Querds.as_well.asprendent |

2.0 the. Manone) Sports __Commissidm._While_no. meahua_i_mede_

of Relonde.Masrkertec in xhy.connechun, Rothman _hes_2ngag ect_|

i In_meny_explorts—_and.deals with Masserren.”

—_f£." La Seetideo Rothman. shil.out.or_ 850,000 bend, __|
_--made_on_approach_te_Frank.Piorint,soldiec.ol_fectune,

an offering to—0btain_ two. Mi.gs..oneflown—byo Czech

]

_and.another.by a Cuban. Frocini..felh that gothmants_inienes + |

8s shmuloted_by a —straignt_proht_mohve_or_b.y oper

_ fr_favorable treatment. ..regarding the Fed. cate against hint

i

ee -——§—_Th_.0c+.19 60,..RorhmMaN..ago1n_ appeared Dallas.
whee he approached...Robert €-Gannan., an oil —__

_ contracts promehon.man...Rothman_claimec the ve.

connections..woith..Nor-Roth LTodustries of YC .ond stated
Nor-Rorh Ladustries

thot. cheots of.bys haa an interes in. purchesing. Zmilton

_meter'e..tons.of... dresal.. fel oit-and__]_ povlhon..metrictons—_.

Of ccvde.orl tO. be dehvered over a fve-yearpectod.—_.

4o._.harmb erg, Germany..Grinnan, purrled. bythe offen, ———___—

SECRET


te port@a_tothe FS he went to &.% in november and me? _
-Roxhm an...ancd—the_other. princip.ass_ot the dea) _ po —Mary..

“Talley anda _Dr-_Phithp Paneth _a 2. Panay largely —_|

—____ beeawe_of Grinnonts_s.uspacionssthedeal_wasnevec__|

—ecdsumaied.” __ _ a

oot Ps ot pecember 4605 Rothman’ 4O43._hhy1.0¢y. 1m

Danas, Texas.” — a —- |

a i” The_secona, memorandumte_the_cecord Galy io, ister) |

_Leontains__o.ddrhonz.] background . ae an_updated.,
hot
Jecahon 99 Rothman.___Tne.. memo _ indicates. Bite _aunng,

—____.____.}

ite. Bahsta_regime_, Rothman wos. the.cuperoisot_of

Slob machines 1 Camaguey. provinte..under the nahonel._

he
Supervisor... Alberto Praura Moya. who..wasone.of owners
ETO OUR MOUS.

ok the _Tropeana magn club in pavang.._The memo states,

_thar_secent reports __place_Rothman_iip Mami

Tne. hle. _a\so__con tains. om ¢morand.um....for_the

_ -Repury Ciel of he .weseen yemisphere.DivisiGa___ from] [eens

2. meeting with. Rothman. ana. DBavrd..1.

MeConnen....The..memo.is cated _June_30,1961. The .meehng _
-oceurredon... Mne 39,196), at the Seputy Alturney General's offce
and wos oF the purpose. of eraluahng."Rothman's. claim +e

Operahonzlasse tS inside. Cub. ana elyewhere inthe Candbean |

meConnell
OFER ... AN OGTEEMeENY..... LOS. MACE... Hock Bebra udou lb be

_notvhed. of .Rothmants...."opercrhonz |. pot enna in Cuban_affares.” ort!
Tay S.. (Trece wy nd recor 18 tne Ale of. bese any. _.

Farther communicadnun wit mneconnenl),

| Nanas



loo sa_the. Bemoccasfa0ry Mech ine@._19_M. Carol oe, Ore

—StG¥O_be_war_acquainled ach Robert _scennedy Genera! Taylor and

—— ~-Genero}_van Fleet —MeloaneW 1s _o_cocporate_stox.attorney Ao.

2 was_eoneern a Odbeut he. embarassment ap_the Kennedy,
| if

[ote by tre Cuban “hasco’ je stated that |

—______Rothmen_chim:

te _havé assets ond_copatbrliheds which woute___

! énable_Rorhnmnan.

Sestrowy. the arms_dumyps on the

plantihun of —ex- president ~-Cacaenas_of mexico ,tvsetu

Lt Peer

Sperahonzl baies_in the Yucatan ot a cosb_of

sobateqe targels in tuba _idenhhed. by the US. gov h

i
ond 4o_prowide _poathve intelligence oo the achurhes_of

Chinese _Gommunit Groups. in the weitern Hemsphett.

_____lonen_R0thman_w0s_ Gmptisiobstes, _queshon ad. _by Simmons he _

_-—-_:made_the__fallowin g__p.oints

_—______1=_Casiro_thad_executed three of _his_close frienay _ |
(Francisco= war name

__- Rogelio Gonzalez, Sori _mariio.,ank Ef igento Fornender

cI Rothe _has the operahinz) capodil hy to destroy rns |
dumps of Cardenas. Ye has_agent assets19 99-€ x10. o_toth. whom he.
be made contact_.A. te Suoumoenths ago.

3.1. Re_na@d__andiansconviruct_an__airstip 19

eucatan

Gne_ 8-6. haa_langea anere:

7 HE Swell _acquamika. with sanchez. Arvango and
- consid ers pim aclose. personel friend . We last_met Arango 6

weeles ago.

St He has the. personnel and _copabsshes__trs-afiacle or

Sabato ge ary targoh...icuc..choosima..Ciehs Me hah ae

no gene ———


———_basic_. plan_for__Assassinahén_of Costro__ne_plan called. furan

Air ateck with napalm -agains> Castro, when he was addressing. |

Otay He has 100 pilots Who had parhupalea onthe

ao vasion..of Cuba_and_—afe_now works ng, forthe _conqolese_.Pre-Fatce.

—_fetnman_srouid_nok_dentiby the_pilots,

6 Retnman_said be hack many agents going io and owt of Cub.
He 1s_o_contact with 6 _agents_at-tha_-tm?. “he agents___|

Icon. the tmucist-teave) =ab.usiness_orimmport-export business

Aen ec the WS. theough.3¢d_countm ed.

1 He_K Nous

man g-.Chinese..communisks_gaing 19% __

Canad fron Cuba Beceseseeenast

coe ROH MAO._expresseck cesentmen. -0¥8r_gun-running |

charges... Sa1oh. Mthak crA > ¢a the same people in there!

UN running ACH UIh®. andthe same hourer.,_.foriwrichthe_|

(me. Rothman).was being prosecuted... by the. Federal Government.

re. sad. that. he_hod. supervised 40. shypopecahuns.oo_behalf__|

eo Oh the. Frenie against Cuber. He sardl Hay. CEA wpowl dh rule.

the stulf. do. the pant. of ship. pick-up, where he. (mr, euthman )
i

. Would Supervise. the 1Loacdiney of the shups_. ve sasd thar_he_!

Wad purchased the aoth. spip tree fer” which was_the frst

He added thet

boat to. support. the underground. in Cubs.
he knew everything the CLR. planreck 1m marrhime. operahony
and for the muasion..” . 7 nee |

Ge Rothman, staked. be is a clove friend_of John Abbes |

Corer... Cmef of. ominican Pepublic. Secours hy |

commen *s_.

At the conctuson. of the. memorandum.

that he dia not beheve.. Rathmap's..clarts of contralling.—
t

SECR


j =
| agefts__ana_material_assets. +H fecormme nas -+hat there be no

fwrtrec PScUsNUN with Corbman ce +these a cleans |

——_Sirem.ony_noies froma _this._. meen g— qive_mcConnel's

Kadless 45 Chariohe,W..Caroina.._ TDi _menne.inchiades_—____]

Aadvvronzl_comenents mage__\oy Korb meq =

_Clasms_to_know...P 10_, Betancourt

“Sus pects_PorTicic 0 p__or_berng funny onads\-adused.”_|

L Sn the love year Rothman was met Prange 40-3s time

______ Rothman knows fnendss "Goree” ana “Tat

; ; a
de Bsn You Ng.._»s_Rothman's_persunal_enoh

2 He last visited the. Donninican Rep. 19 IATA tc the

purpore_of_communiconing wrth assets anck contacts Jono. Abbes |

orked Rothman do Jeb

Te. Hle_also..contoins some infecmohin_onfduardo

Tt £ duende Tule whytehowe Iniua (009 3342)
:

. o |
Deka Teddy”. whikhowre si_dercerbed asa comoaimer_ot Bainmen's.

An_Pmol_S,1VeO copocd stores thar_warehowe and Eliot |

_. Spineung indended to take a B22 +0. Vera Crur.Sam Rubin |

het

conn (be heved 2 be idemrcal with Sem" Stretch Rubin, 6
,

doorman Gt the @iltmoce Terrace Hie) wo _repocied tebe. |

tre_ovoner_of ane 8-26 (Reg NSAIVS) A_Pee BMI |

repor+... indicates thal Wt. Customs. seized a B-26 at Mmuam) and
another (wass.l@).ar Vero Beach. when whienowe anX

_Spyoning...akemp bed te move them. A 1a Dec_1teo_repok

stares that. Lomrehoure war sesponsrble..forse ting Sr

AD_ANe MQOT crops rn..eArly IV GO. State: he wow asked ley

SECRET - ——


Sar Albecto_Fernandez____Svr_nelp.. Fernandez has set upia

QuecMa-segamzakiwo. A 13 Feb IGbl report states that

A teoring tp Alexander D Rorke, Te. ,Wnitehowe es

.. .20_ pilots guarllable and c3oady to_toke_drashc_achen. against
———Pastro_ond_have_uocked out _o.Sdefinte planef achua”

ity_accomplish "Castro's _overth cow.”

___.._-AL.Oriando Pedra _

Pre dra_was_formerlig_in charge of the ep. of Tnuerhgahen

under Boahsta A 8 Tan 1960 pepoch state ther |

WW accordmg. ta._2origue Fernandes. Parajon both heanck

Pedra ore neading the “military sechon" of the countec= |

- “revolunorerty.-grour which. x6 feceiuing. .monetary.suppoct___.
fromm Gohste. A.W march.19%60._ report indicahes. Predera
_merk.ot_ planned to meet with General Jose foveaze.curseg.|
FO e_lodee's visit te..Wwashingiwa.,_ Pledra_ts_desersbedoo.a.
a member..of BRAC who. fled Cuba oa Ton 114s

Reference b..madete a New. Orleans F.B.5.cepack date ___

coe, AMOPUR 37 VVGS 1 O.n Oh A AASG. there ty_oaceperh they _

Preara.receiwed orders by Bansta thru Tae Suarez Munem tO

Limmedialelsp.. comahdate.and-Cas tro forces.

TH moranda fernandez =. neve. 13s..one report, 3-61 which.
States Mirander...cimi Heh . sominp teem ro furnishing aid!

yo Rolando masferrer 3A Jas%- 1960. He stata he now

providing OA and assistance é. to ha_femermoirary

eG Men®, WN oe SAW in Cub Oe WOKE ng against Carrere.

Be. dhines. the group 1b oss ec tated ath FRO.

SECRET. we
