180-10074-10330)

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

9/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: — 180-10074-10330
RECORD SERIES: | NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 007488
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: SNYDER, RICHARD E.
TO:
TITLE:

PAGES :

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS,

CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

04/14/1978
8

OSWALD, LEE; RUSSIAN PERIOD; RETURN TO U.S.
OSWALD, LEE HARVEY; RUSSIAN PERIOD; DEFECTION TO
RUSSIA

SUMMARY
Unclassified
3

Redact

10/16/1996

Box 143.

vol

HW 50955 Docld:32246272 Page 1


JFK Routing Slip 007488

fe 7 ey, = of

Document I.D. INVESTIGATIVE INTERVIEW/SCHEDULE,

mn Jim Wol: f :
i ao uted L he Tiny Hutton
Jack

Pa y, pacclla deeds givine
Hose GHA. Lud Team $2

Team #3

pecial Instructions:

| NW 50955 Doclda:32246272 Page 2


KENNEDY

087488
INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE
1. Identifying Information:
Name Richard E. Snyder Date 4-14-78
Address 7919 Bolling Drive Place SCA Office
City/StateAlexandria, Va. Telephone
Date of Birth 12-10-19 Mors
Social Security _153+03-2996 7 Spouse
Children
\2. Physical Description:
H Height Color Eyes Hair
Weight Special Characteristics

Ethnic Group.

‘3, Personal History:

a. Present Employment: Worked for CIA 1949-1950. Entered State Dept.

Foreign Service in 1950, retired in I970. In Military
Address i Military Intelligence Reserve since 1946.

Telephone

b. Criminal Record
1. Arrests

2. Convictions

4, Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s): Name

Address

| b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

Investigator Robert Genzman, Harold Leap and ‘Beth Lichtenfels

Date 4-14-78 Form #4-B

HW 50955 DocId:32246272 Page 3



See KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Name Richard E. Snyder Date 4-14-78 Time 11 am

Address _7919 Bolling Drive Place SCA Office

Alexandria, Virginia

Interview: Robert Genzman, Harold Leap, and Beth Lichtenfels

H interviewed Richard E. Snyder, retired Foreign Service Officer,

on April 14, 1978, at the Committee offices. The interview

yielded the following information:
Snyder was born on December 10, 1919. He served in the

Army from 1940 to 1946, and then attended Yale University, where

he received a degree and completed a year of graduate work. He

took the Foreign Service exam during his senior year of college,
passed the exam, and was placed on the waiting list for Foreign

Service assignments. He did not know anyone who took the Foreign

Service exam when he did, and he did not know anyone else on the

Foreign Service waiting list.

In October 1949, Snyder was contacted by the Central In-

' telligence Agency and was asked whether he desired employment
with the Agency. He was told that the State Department had Cire)
culated its Foreign Service waiting list to the CIA. Although
he thought he would be called for State Department employment

within a year or so, and although he knew he would accept such

Interviewer Signature eebenke Chewy morn! i

Typed Signature Robert Genzman, Harold Leap and Beth Lichtenfels

Date transcribed Rife 4-25-78

By? __ Form #4-a

HW 50955 DocId:32246272 Page 4



Interview with Richard E. Snyder

Page 2.

employment, he applied to the CIA primarily for financial rea-
sons, was accepted, and served from 1949 to 1950. Most of
his CIA service consisted of training; he did little substan-
tive work for the Agency.

Snyder completely terminated his CIA employment and en-
tered the Foreign Service in 1950. He cannot recall any contact
with the CIA since 1950, aside from a letter which he sent to
the Agency after he retired from the State Department circa
1970 to inquire about contract work possibilities. The CIA's
response was negative.

Snyder has been in Military Intelligence and Military
Intelligence Reserve since the time of his active Army duty
(1940-1946), although there has never been any connection be-
tween his State Department employment and his military posi-
tions. He is currently in inactive Military Intelligence Re-
serve.

Snyder served as a consular officer at the American Em-
bassy in Moscow from July 1959 to July 1961. When shown lists
of State Department personnel in Moscow for the years 1959 and
1960, he said he could recognize no CIA personnel. He did not
know who had been the CIA's Chief of Station in Moscow when
he served there. He said that the military attache people at
the Embassy may have been CIA employees, and that the travel
officer and the security officer named L'Angeli (phonetic) may

have been CIA employees. L'Angeli was once approached by the

HW 50955 DocId:32246272 Page 5



Titervded with Richard E. Snyder
Page 3.
Soviets for defection.

Snyder said Minister Counselor Edward L. Freers (de-
ceased) was not a CIA employee. He did not know whether John
A. McVickar, his colleague in the consular office, was a CIA
employee. McVickar, who arrived in Moscow before Snyder and
departed after Snyder, worked with Snyder throughout his two-
year tour of duty in Moscow. Like L'Angeli, McVickar was once
approached by the Soviets for defection. Snyder said he never
told McVickar, whom he first met in 1959, that he (Snyder) had
once been a CIA employee. Snyder said that when asked by Dan
Rather of CBS if he (Snyder) had been with the CIA, he replied
that in the Soviet Union he had been nothing other than what
he claimed to be.

Snyder said that when he testified before the Warren Com—
mission, he was not asked whether he had ever been a CIA employee.
After he testified, he told Allen Dulles that he had once worked
for the Agency. Dulles did not show much interest.

Snyder remembers that during his tour of duty in Moscow,
there came to his attention three defector cases--Robert Edward
Webster, Nicholas Petrulli, and then Lee Harvey Oswald. On
October 28, 1959, just before Oswald defected, Snyder sent a let-
ter (C.E. 914) to the State Department requesting advice on hand-
ling cases of defection. Snyder said that this request was not
directed at any particular case.

Snyder first became aware of Lee Harvey Oswald when Oswald

came to the embassy on October 31, 1959, to renounce his American

NW 50955 Docld:32246272_ Page 6



Interview with Richard E. Snyder

Page 4.

citizenship. He recalls that he and Oswald talked alone, al-
though McVickar was in an adjoining office with the door open.
Snyder said that McVickar's claim that he was in the same room
may be correct, but that he (Snyder) cannot remember for certain.
Oswald appeared to be determined and "uptight," and he declined
to sit, although he probably did sit later. He gave Snyder a
note stating that he wanted to renounce his American citizenship.
He either gave Snyder his passport or Snyder asked for it. Os-
wald said that he had been a radar operator in;the Marine Corps,
and that he intended to give information he possessed to the
Soviets. Snyder's response was to attempt to delay any action
by Oswald and to get more information from Oswald. Oswald was
not talkative, but "humorless," and this meeting did not last
long-~possibly one hour or so.

Snyder recalls that during this meeting Oswald did not
mention the specific military information which he possessed,
nor did he mention John F. Kennedy, political assassination, the
President of the United States, or Cuba. Oswald did talk about
the imperialism of the United States, his disloyalty to the
United States, his loyalty to the Soviet Union, and the fact
that he was a Marxist.

When asked to explain why he wanted to delay Oswald's
denunciation "in view of the Petrulli case and other considera-
tions" (W.R. 748; C.E. 908), Snyder stated that Nicholas Petrulli

had earlier defected, that Petrulli's defection was nullified

HW 50955 DocId:32246272 Page 7



Richard E. Snyder Interview

Page 5.

by a determination that he was mentally incompetent, that
Snyder wanted to avoid a repetition of this incident, and
that “other considerations" meant common sense and prudence.

After this meeting with Oswald, Snyder did not talk
with McVickar and he did not contact any intelligence officers;
instead, he drafted a cable to be sent to Washington. Since
this cable contained all of the information Snyder obtained
from Oswald, and since it would be sent through the appropriate
persons at the embassy, he saw no need to contact anyone. He
may have talked to Freers before he sent the cable, but he did
not talk to anyone else. No one in the embassy approached him
to discuss this cable.

Several days later Oswald sent Snyder a letter protesting
his treatment at the embassy. Snyder cabled this information
to Washington.

McVickar may have tipped journalist Priscilla Johnson
McMillan concerning Oswald's visit to the embassy. McVickar
never told Snyder about any information on Oswald which McVickar
may have obtained from McMillan. Snyder knows of no other jour-
nalists who were tipped about Oswald's defection.

Regarding contacts with American journalists in Moscow,
Snyder stated that he knew Priscilla Johnson McMillan personally,
knew of A. L. Goldberg, had an official contact with Aline Mosby
concerning a Soviet provocation, and had two or three official
contacts with R. J. (Bud) Korengold concerning consular issues

which could not be followed up at the embassy. In recent years

NW 50955 DocId:32246272 Page 8



NW 50955

DocId:32246272 Page 9

Interview with Richard E. Snyder
Page 6.
Snyder has had contact with McMillan concerning her book
Marina and Lee as it pertains to Snyder.

Snyder remembers that some time after Oswald's visit
to the embassy Oswald sent two letters to the embassy from
Minsk.

Snyder had two meetings with Oswald upon his return from
Minsk in 1961. Snyder has no independent recollection of the
first of these meetings, but he said that records show that
such a meeting occurred on a Saturday. The meeting must have
been brief. Oswald probably said that he wanted to return to
the United States, and Snyder probably told Oswald to come back
to the embassy later. McVickar and Snyder's secretary Verna
Deane Brown probably had contact with Oswald during this visit
and during Oswald's subsequent visit.

When Oswald returned to the embassy he seemed "meek."
He probably admitted that he had "learned a hard lesson the hard
way," and he expressed a concern that he might be prosecuted.
Snyder asked him about his various activities in the Soviet
Union. Oswald stated that he had not given any information to
the Soviets.

Snyder did not expedite Oswald's actual return to the
United States, which transpired after Snyder had left the Soviet
Union. Snyder did not expedite Oswald's application to renew
his passport; instead, he gave it "no great priority" as a

"petty way of getting even" with Oswald, whom he did not like.



sete

Interview with Richard E. Snyder

Page 7.

Mevickar handled Marina Oswald's visa application. Snyder

does not recall ever meeting Marina Oswald, and he was not aware
that her uncle was a Soviet MVD officer.

Snyder did not know why two applications for passport
renewal (C.E. 938; C.E. 947) were made out for Oswald. When
asked why one application (C.E. 938) had been marked, "I have
been naturalized as a citizen of a foreign state," etc., Snyder

thought this was a typographical error.

HW 50955 Docld:32246272 Page 10

