# 180-10141-10444

## Page 1

180-10141-10444

Leslie Wizelman.

926110,8

JFK TaxTO

Folder 75

1 tem

EGC File

E. H. Hunt-Summary

3/10/78

SECRET

The seGe file cover inpacad fcas tuly i, 1965. to

_June 19, 1922

The fila condus tra fallouág daurents and informatioo:

Dasonast bermen me egency cind shittin, eitective

employe Hunt is

a "contrar empogess ta

a enemo fur 0Gc trum does of contait personnel Division?

dated August 3, 19605:2

subient Retention of royalter bya

contraco empiosee states at bunt "auli apparently evelo

a coner as aweter,

, eques opinion regending retention of sa

3- memo fur Chee of contrar lersonnel Dission frons.

Office of General covasel.

,aarea hug la, 195. ceretentio

ot cayatter.

"We bedieve that tunt o entitled ta rentia such

royather without an offset aganst his Bgency salary.

" "wehave

Hunt's

beer aduised by ma Gene steens wilsuppart, that teame

cover dae dot saclude: she cole. af a unster, Hun's cove

facitatus sill anybe a light 00f at a retirech Foreign Sevite

Itticer."

_A memo

fran Chief, covert Claims Branch to Chief, Contract

'ersonnel Diusin, dated Sept 3, 1965. Ottie recommended deletion at

aftset paragraph in Hunt contrart Accouledges the Oucepinion

such determned Hunt may retain without Agency salary aftset

any tuture loyalties earned as a resultat his literery elforts baseden

the fart cover does not include role af awaiter."

SEORET

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

10141-10444

---

## Page 2

CHHAS NO SECTON TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANGIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

#055+548505y

SERPET

6- mera trash concad amalaya Accounts section to i

Chief, western Surape Dusion, dated Out 13; 1265, Repoststhar

there is no secaco of recosa of duty status Repacts tuc

tunt since his Sos y Tubyi9es Reports are required in order_

Mự Contract Th

mera on toes of page la Compensatua

conversation: west

•¿ії.

miaonar saramessnes, 0000 , there will be rio

aubmitted on Hust This should be:

wised as the authday ss cantique: his pay without

toge repacts.

8 1.

@memo fur Dep. Director fur support to Acting Chief,.

vestein Europe Diusian sonted NouS, S,1965

Hunt has

equested reliet un bourag costs "4, due to the operational

ensitiuty if thin's assignent, his equest fur relief on his

usung casts ua banalea by me thoras karamessiases

ssest 1965, me. karamesires, approued hit beingrenbursen

a a 75/1590 basis far the excessi allowable costs usite,

but not to exceed, to do above his quarters allowance.

A memo, dated Fab1,1974 ra Ganeral Gaylor's recallectioos

tax regarding his knowledge of the watings of matunt andany

official who might be quare of the arcumstances of any agency

inuolvementin that effort a "he became Qware that Hunt,

wheen wh, was accomplishing a steady flaw of spy books, and

that.security.approvalwas.not..beingreguested.onthe

manuscripts. before submission ta publishers. Gen.i Gaynor

advised that longer he raised the issue "up front" on sevecal

0IC

---

## Page 3

: CLA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DICE WISFICATION ANIVOR

REY EASE OF TRIS DOCUMENT.

-3-

occasions. The cactuate recamen to his catsing the issue.

was that "keep your staing nole out at th business...

He stated that be was lead to belieus that mentoms deprec

umprove the image of the intelligence protession" and they

Aceray and that Hunts hocks were a past of the progoam

ta do sai

te sisted that he iver never told outright that this

was the case but the ressonses he receried leach him

to believe shis was the case."

pace i'e..

He suggested rus penale una might clear the issue-

Bay loa and later freizheimer "both of whom were involved

un the "mage" caterals "Hestated that PForehemer seemed to be

sars of allthe details - anon up to date basis of Hunts departure.

from the beney to saur the public relation fum, fatheregee

hat den. Gaynae gained the belief that tunt was merely

noving his dest

auticle the building but being paid sy thie

i9002

befure:

EMOLIVEE

8330

Feb 6, 1924- messa- da Feb 4,1974-Farzheimer wai

iteruiewedi " This interies was undertaken

_Inanaffert te

termine if mr Huss had acted many capacity in cooperatico

nth counter Intelligence, aperations, Whea efazheimer discoured

int had water. On Hazardow Duty; he called karamessies.

1al recalled thai froos the nature of orkacaressines

eacton that he had uncauered a sensitive mattecatsenior

fficer concern "Withins minutes, Helms.called pfurzbermer

sho remembers the substance of the conversationbeing "ficbreist

axewalter.theis thefirstbodkto.comealong_aad.say

---

## Page 4

something good about the agency," why not leave the Goddam

thing alone mrie believed that fielms a karamessines

caid raswer the questorat whether tunt had Agency-

sponsorship foc his book met: The memo states that itunt

was asgaad a the office as the Despay director foc operations

Fune

1965 through Seas 1906, tint was assigned to

as a contact agent: - 191000+ 3 books apReared.

_2963=1_000½

as 1209, 197181973-1-0004/55

AEl 30, 1970- triat alacally canted as an Agency stutt

erplajee " The 'attice at seniry recordi did nut develop any

indication that anyce the Daust John manuscrests

were ever iubmited fur reusew in accordance with

regulatzans"

a memo tux recard- Febe, 1974 "Subj: Possible Agency

Sporsoetup it the Dauc si John Novels.

A conference

was held with peadle tronithe IG ofhie." Thespeculation

vas enterianed that or-EHoward Hunt had in fact, been wodee

Agency. sponseship.with the knowledge of mr Richard Helms

in his preparatica de a secies de spy novels under the

pseudays, David satoba it can be accepted as areasonable

supposita that mituat had some bighty compartmented

financial arrangement authonzed by seaur Agency officials

to waite there books, then it is likely that this relationship

continuec after mrattunt officially retired," "minutes fromthe

ofile_ofLegislateecunsel_made_referencests.a.cuncernot

Senator. Baker quer an alleged: finäncial relatonship between

JERR

---

## Page 5

CV, HAS NO REJECTION TO

DIC AS FIGATION AMOVOR

RE-LEASE OF THIS ER CUMENT

5-

$

Da Heims and martant which castinued subsequent to meltunts

Fursagi retrement.

i": Baler prade reference to a payment

Elisome 30,000 with the parenthetical comment that i

no. Helms would aut nave that anoist ot muney fromhis

2a hinds

indise Emaloyee of to staft

•apnionza that "if

the ageacy had spansaced

that mastues nadi so intormei senator Baker."

C IneVeN With Rayin Bocca- Eca 1ü1934 - Asked, about

nanang us tunt mr Raccoo ves pinded "on the record" shat he

assa knowledge af any such arrangements no at any time wal

estery to day assistance of or any requests for assistance

¿Tr Hunt" Ventured gainion shat "in all probability. an official

quiescence on the pact at semor officials might haverbeen

rudued räther taan

an afficial sponsorship.

Dintecurenwits dei, contract Personnel Duvisena

Feb iant, stated that " alhough it was rot commas

saches 1s

was nat entrely unusual for

bighly sensitive

satiasts to be adminitered ithout the contacting

Ificer bring qwere at the operational objectsiemuived."

@ interwewith former chief of suppet, western Europeas

0133UR- 1985

Dak': 15 Ees 1924. Asked re Huntis astuitien 1965)

= ".

" fraca his recollecturitwas Huntis habit to deal onkywith

e most senior offiar quailable" "He wa never briefed on thei

pose at ma Hunty poison.

---

## Page 6

= 6-

SBORET

memo sue recora jdated al Fes 1974, te ofFiceos

Finance Recaras - 8. Howara trior.=

Hunt-departed Decon 5 bug 1965 ancierrec

16 Augiaos Hunt was para tbrougs an account at the Riggs

with chase manhatan hare was no record of anyapercinal a

accouatic duences bang processed taraugh thu chanpel. mr

sale statea shat tris fact defined his concern. leten thatit

war incanewarle that mustunt could have undertaken

aperational actauty ustout some transfer of daccounting

for funds ani

Fedate, nosich recosas: have been developed

No reference to a project a project digraph ar operatonal:

AN numbee has been lacated i AlLexpenses conneciedwith

ma that identifes to date were charged to the

Statua Suapuri A sauLon made of

Stasten records harrat

indicated any "Developmental and target of Upperturbs COSTO"

funes or "ather operational Actiy (auR)" fund expended

by ac aa bebalf it ma sunt these two accaunts walld

normally be the source af operatural funding not charged

against a specifia project activity" A review af travel vouchers

also talled to dentity a project. There was a voucher sur.

a return to

_Jan5-8; 19060. The voucher

-states in tbes pace prandach for then ataina of the travel ander

number-"no.travel_order" Tnescounting iod appraved and

signeaoy_karomesnes.@no.justFecapen_arstatementofpurpose.

me Yale noted mat the royalty offset waiver proussiur amended

-to-suntis contract was, in his experience, somèwhat unusual.

SECRET

---

## Page 7

97-

SECRET

The office de finance Duecta stated that tem his expecence,

mikaramessinei waild haue dalegated all the Arranging at tderails"

succaunding an assignment such as ma tunts to mar

He attend as sucome as what se interoreted to ba reticence to date

to interven co son loe

I memo fur acoca-al sen 1974 subj: watergate

Eiplopsest

Erebred June, 1922

Pror toseticement he

us an ation the Exernal Empereas Aristance Branch

Retirement Activites Divisia of die othea at Persunnel. Hewa to assisti

in fuccling post retucement employment He naubeen instrumental in the

_placement at Hunt in one

in the sallen Ruben. Separa

lauc to woring fue Personnel, don

reserved with the cerial

cover statt in the area dealing with the funding of covert action

project ite had becoe fasiliar

Hunt functined an the Cover Achushes SiatE

Mantcame

in coatact with millen corazary when he was attenting ta

handle the public

relatins effort afa cauert Agency activity

Kasur as the Ence Cuba Cumnastlee

"In dressone to a questun as to chether ar out executave level.

nterest was still being stown in matunts post-emoloyment

Ewployee

y recalled that Helms, then Direltor, was listed

sa charácter reference an me Hunt's resume and Helms signed

Jeter of recommendation to the tendecott copper ca an Hunth behalt.

_contact was maintaned with mituat at the muller co. on

In play-al

continuing basis because mea

ana interestedinbr

unt for possible referrets (of other Agency rebrees), False

SECRET.

---

## Page 8

S20u3:

understood there was cousc anch cummercial staff interest in the

Daulen Gaand thesmtent. became instrumental in

disassing.seralaspects..of the coveriogeration

Lia his

capacity as an aforer at the compans.

sanseveral occauans requesting meterral

of reticing agency coplayees unth spentic qualitcatons -at tec Hunt

adjoined the white House

ser Recalleda reavest for an individual

haung stills 1o the crea

of locks aach sasucceptitan entry.

Етрум".

It was e

impresso trat the duties ioved wavid include

p.".

the matray of a listenag deuce in aa induclosed locatica

Huat also requested a cecomendation of a security service

organization to carry quo an electronia cauntermeasures

"suz 2p."

suspected: the electronic countermeasures sweep.

wai to be caried out in the afficer of the committee to lamelect

Einip

swas ailed it he euer referred anyone tu mccord

Associates: He hadi

_recalled that at the treat Hiot's

assiganent ta maded the statement dusemnated fur ecosumption

wither the Agency

Jai wai ast generally behened He was quite certain that clunag

this percoch his affice handled ba project funding.

Esc tunt

On or tuat's retura to staff emploument the pojects and tunding.

which stored iny 965-were 9990

manned.

1. a3 Feb 1924-oneeining with

studly passible telms & karamessines handled the Hunt

-re tacugat twai

busineu

ather own. He didn't know anytbag:

pP-aa Feb 1984 He stated the assignment of mathint to the

1500.000 DIVIsin & to

"was handled without the beretst

SECRET

---

## Page 9

SEORET

of the couture pracessing poocedures thraugh the werern European

Diusic: Hunts assignment wai coordinated and directed by

sacaressinet He uni unaware of any spectre project ac

target for tunt munt procuced postive intelligence on the

tanget dunng the penach the officials response fur the frosts

vere totally unaware of i me mas. ot info he had about shint

vas bearsay, fac examnle

me a comment was made bija sautual

acquaintance to the elect trat Hurtstated that wale in

he was gong ta "play golf ana wate bedt

tis parsonal apinion - that tur had no opecational fueltinand

ersanal goia a quu's expene

Enema tir be record, dated 20 Des 1973, conversatica

126th c/

Liest in in b5. He was told bi

LEur le cha nac been tea by karamessiner that Huat wa

rabe assigned ta

as Deos, as adirected assignment by Helms.

ine tobass ador waild not bau that in the embasy. After a coupie

nanthe a; he was tole that tunt war going to

under

arafficial couer It came to bim frio karamesines a Helms'order

int wai to have the phone it at the cas out he would de ootbiog

i the statoo Hunt was to submit administrate vouchers for

ambussement of his expense & they were ta be paid the sancurs

not there was to operatunal resortig, ta indicate that Hunt was

10159- 00455209005-1

had told am that he didn't know what

stunt did.

SEGBET

---

## Page 10

stcrist

@ 22 Fen lady- searon at finance recoras to deermine it al30,000

sayoseat ta trint, that required no accolaring could be fairei:

nitraveL clans or aco las Analyzed inunti adilande

and have determined. chat

333 rael and trans piratin

with one tao to Racu

jarenew.iisas.one.dem.appeaced bacco.

poraned for menesoft her

:4/33a "Ed

by mo Desmona Fiergerard

"Doestraage aspectit

the

ner-official cover assigorient 1a

sithat all the costs

ere changed to the support: allotment

or the EUR Dausion

20609"

Which is Dos Dormal as nosofacial

sues people are usually

assigned to thei project. Irishnuinel

o have a case atticer abroad for che jear in an opecatione lis

assignment wishest bine

incurang operational expenditires.

"watergate

He Research. Final Repact

:" Recalls that there were occasianal inquicier

abait the repoded presence so

attunt. At do time did tuat catact bim. There was sime info

1 197a cancerring repected actuaties in

Pey Robert vesco

a 290ct 1924 memo tron Dir. of Security - "Leaverecords reflect that

, the four week pay persod ending az souember 1963 mattunt

ok a total of 11 haurs sic leaue and no ansual leave uta the

Hawing tour week pay period, betail 3 hans scis leave

1a27 hours annual leave. We are uncible to further dently the

ites on which the above sick and annual leave were taken

Travel_records reflect_that.mc.tunt.conducted no otheral travel

cing-the month as N00. 1963.

in tur

ET •

K

---

## Page 11

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEQLASSIFIGATION ANDON

RELEASE OF THIS DOCU" "ENT

SECRET

1 memo fur recaça, 20 seet 1934-by sile Bieckincidge

"Hunt's", tavelrecora spous othcal trauel in September,

actober and December, but bene

Bravel was to New york" s

astates that we -

already noa;as a result at respense to previou requerts

have no recacas on sturgis that would show thes

similar information, he was not an agency employee.

"securit praided

us with a column by Tack enderson, ot

Is April azu, in which ba cavered she Hunt sturgi cumuc

durassing i a copy of the nous column it aachad thisanta

suggest that i cather aban police photographs of persons

rounded up and booked, she phötographs in question are

randora snapshots of crowds If this is correct there wouichbe

no related police: fingerprint records that couldibe checked

fer verticanoin

a memo for Deput Director for administratin brom Dirat

Security

subj: atlasi Date 23 00t: 1924. DIscusies

allegatica regarding tant & sturgis "paStgi was oot l

assecated with the Agency in any manner in louember

1963." FBI Liaison Officer interulewed. bunt on 170ct

1934 and Hurt aduled at that time that he bad Leaned

-of the assassinaton af JEls "on his carradia while be

was in a leave stake. In the washingtan sicarea"

3) memo for the recurd, dated ao December 1973 ay

_Breckinrage.

_wal assigned to the

oface. "I gave → a a

-possible press treatment that Hurt wa engaged namestià

operations (somerbing senator Baker pursuing) and that

SECRET

OK

---

## Page 12

SEGRET

sis assigament te

as gring bim hone

Tatter the election solid be presented

coulate."

Background la June issa

Employed by cIA

retirerent ao

30 90cil:1970

47.461008

1971 - seried as

"Subject o a

Dec 1950- assignes

seruedia

erei so the central cover staft

Chief

cassia there until, 195-3

- June 1954

ta Feb 1257

sntalcasty 1960

CDS-

June 9s0- assignes

NOU 1961- reassigned

Jan 1962

July 19122-

30 officeuf the Chef/De»

she DOIS ResCarciRand PublIcation

sectur a washingto

July 1961

ine DaDs courit Action stati

Fes 1965.

Jure: 191a5- sest 1966- contact agent-

Sept 1ictn

-Chief af. European Covert

Operations untal

retirament 309 pul 1920

6N00 1920- gaaseu a covere secuaty Appraual tor

with

-use by Cesteal Covec Staff

_@ muller

lasunesara- Inquiey ot Central cover stuit anatunelaa

revealed that thissa current relationshep

Subjectis ser file: neflecis that lunt la the pass, has beer of

aperahmatinterest tomarames Angleton-

SECRET

K

---

