180-10142-10238

. DRAFT ~ MDC - 11/7/78 aus uifs(re {Fox AB

Betsy Palmer ZeePESLe 2y
: : w2e
i: MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO
T fry payee (MDC)
| *feer Castro's assumption of power in 1959, it became

4

evident to many Cubans that political parties were being

surpressed and the 26th of July Movement was being infiltrated

by Communists. This political atmosphere gave rise to the
creation of underground ergata etegene such as the Christian
Democratic Movement of Cuba (MDC). Qerasovo, MDC Volume 3,
Objectives of MDC) Gecloiaete, doctrine of Christianity as its
foundation, the MDC published a manifesto in vareh, 1960,Arbia)
denouncing Communism y and strongly advocating the free enter-
prise system. Busca #009538, Item 4, p. 2, FBI #105-87909-5,
1/30/61) One of the founders of the MDC, 35-year-old law
professor, Dr. Jose Ignacio Rasco, was elected head of the

@ hea tery
organization~ (Ibid) geen ae eee the violence

prevelant in the Castro Bee ne ters 7pne MDC Volume 3) ae
Palle \ Prcolicrct preacins on Kim Z

open criticism food bis exfiltrat ion Leon ( Cuba and he
was-granted -safe—conduct-to tne U-s. (ee in Miami on

April 22, 1960. (HSCA #009538, Item 4, p. 2, PIB #105-87909-5,
8
1/30/61) 4& June, Rasco had allied himself and the MDC with

- thes
the Frente Revolucionario Democratico (FRD)~ (Ibid) and semved

Came” brovekr- bsether
one of the five original exile Cuban leaderd\recommended——~_)

\ by the State Department and the Hamwana CIA-stetéen to form the

nucleus of a Cuban government-in-exile.(Give Us This Day by
E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library Edition, pp. 43-44.

After the Bay of Pigs invasion, the MDC split into
factions. (CIA/DCD docuf\wpt, Jose Ignacio Rasco, Information

Report 00-K-3,233,366, 8/16/62) Rasco remained head of the

0: NOT KEPRODUCE
RETURN TO CIA

INA ABS


DRAFT- MDC - 11/8/78
Page. 2
largest faction and. wai organized delegations in Miami, New
®
York, Chicago, Venezuela and Cuba. (Ibid) The clandestine
-
faction operating in Cuba was lead by Pepin Fernandez Badue

. @
who used the alias "Lucas". (Ibid) When Fernandez arrived in

the U.S. in October, 1961, he presented his credentials to the

Cuban Revolutionary Council, (CRC), claiming he was the rep-
1aCted)
resentative of the MDC movement in Cuba, emd Council president,

Dr. Miro Cardona, accepted him into the CRC ep eT
ITS pole WAS
The "Lucas" faction remained with the Gouncil but 4 i

buefre tet eyeutnlly Facled
_-—_imperkafree because Fernandez a

tive committee of-his faction-nex—did—he-make—any—effert to
hold the group together. (HSCA Security File 092, Senstudy
Document, Volume 32, Item 1, #97-4110-72)

The Rasco faction of MDC had as its Military Chief an

®

P| if@mpendently wealthy young Cuban, Laureano Batista Falla. (Ibid,
Item 2, #97-4110-123) Free-spirited and under no financial
pressures, Batista was-abte—te organizedand partially finance the

infiltration attempts of the MDC.(HSCA #009303, FBI #97-4623-

at was
149, Section V) whteh-mede—this one of the most active and

effective underground groups in Cuba during the early 1960's.
(sca Security File 092, Senstudy Document, Volume 37, Item 4,

1 #¥105-95461-15, page 4) :
if
rrom(1960 - 1962) (SCA $009303/ p. 6, FBI #97-4623-149,
ALAR
Section V) Batistafwas| |

| (CIA/Office of Security, Laureano

Batista Falla y He trained at the

ert
CIA- sponsored) camp for the MDC near Perrine, Florida, prior

to the April 1961 invasions SCA ae p. 4, FBI #97-4623-1#9 Se


DRAFT-MDC-11/8/78
Page 3
and made many trips from this camp to deliver explosives, guns
and ammunition to the Cuban undergrouna. “rbia)

at CX time SE Undergrouna groups worked together,
sharing supplies and information. (HSCA Security File 092,
Senstudy Document, Volume 37, Item 4, #105-95461-15, p. 4)
However, the repressive measures of the Castro regime after the
April 1961 invasion, caused members of the Cuban underground to
live in fear of discovery and made inter-group liaison extremely
risky. Spia. p. 2) Despite the inherent dangers, the under-
ground movements of the MDC and Movimento Revolucionario del
Pueblo (MRP) worked jointly for an all-out sabotage effort in
the fall of 1961.” (Ibid)

The “Batista” faction of the MDC, (0 named after the
youthful military chief rose to the position of president
in 1962) Gasca #009303, p. 8, Item 4, FBI #105-183815) entered
into-e-numher—ef similar cooperative alliances with other exile
groups for the purposesof propaganda, sabotage and supplying
the Cuban underground. Many MDC members joined the Cuba

4

Committee in 1962 which was formed to counteract totes Play
for Cuba Committee, a erotcuetro organization in the U. = orn
DDO, MDC Volume 3, Cable to Director from JMWAVE, 6/21/62,
#14986) The MDC and the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil ~
(DRE) worked together to formulate plans for an underground a

organization to infiltrate Oriente Province. IA/DDO, Laureano

Batista Falla, Information Cable TDCS DB 3/660-090, 3/14/64)


DRAFT-MDC-11/8/78

Page 4

The @gactive operations between the MDC and other anti-Castro
Preent

groups peaked in the year 1963.A In April, Frank Sturgis, Miami-

based soldier of fortune, supplied information that Batista,

Orlando Bosch Avila, Manuel Artime and Alexander Rorke were

jointly planning an air strike over Havana on April 25.Ceasca
#009303, page 1, FBI #97-4623, Section#) According to Sturgis,
the strike was to originate from an airstrip in Puerto Rico and
the targétfa sugar ee taeey Oba) The bombs were of=tke
homenade, varity, and Got together by Beet Gees ae p- 5,

Item 2) Rorke public@ly announced that the strike had taken
place as scheduled, which took the other planners by surprise.

(Ibid) Sturgis claimed the strike was still in the planning

Recuaperacion Onvebutionarta, (MRR)

stage and financial backing had not been completed. (Ibid)

Racupusracion Guvolalisnrarta. moder 9 (MERR) aud
he ~eyerente-

This incident created a stir and resulted in an intensive FBI

investigation of Rorke's allegation. (HSCA #009303, p. 3, FBI

<<

#97-4623, Sections II through VI) Since Radio Havana, contrary

Bre sinsbreglh Ch. 00, Cr Movemonls GrourreceeniaR, dh

to usual policy, made no immediate protest over the bombing,
& ae FAI
Ibid, p. 3, FBI #97-4623, Section IV) it=wes concluded that

Rorke's story was probably untrue (Tbid, p. 2, #97-4623-35)

Sant :

and, according to Sturgis, merely a publicity stunt. (Ibid, p. 2,
Item 1 (9), FBI #97-4623)

\ In early June, 1963, the MDC made a unity pact with
Commandos L in which the latter group was to provide training
and assistance in military intelligence and the MDC to provide

CK small boats and a team of men to infiltrate Cuba. Cane

MDC Volume 5, Information cable(vec}3536, 9/3/63) The MDC also

made a pact with Dr. Carlos Prio Socarras, former President of


DRAFT-MDC-11/8/78

Page 5

Cuba, who donated $50,000 ef =ts—ewn-merey to the group for
military aid in return for its promise of political support.

(Ibid)

Ricard Rudolph Davis; a Cuban atien, Qeca #012981) had
a peripheral association with the MDC through his contact with
Batista in the summer of 1963. This association was SOROS
in Book V, Final Report of the Senate Select Committee to
Study Governmental Operations, page 12. (Footnote to discuss
discrepancy)

Davis was residing in New Orleans and, although not an
onee.

MDC member, claimed to have,= , been a
ay
“coordinator" for the group and the New York Police pepaitent.
(HSCA #012981) 1He was a friend of Batista and contacted him
aack, ) |
because Batista was in a position to recommend men in

ae D

the Miami area who needed work. (Ibid) Davis claimed he could
provide employment for a small group of Cuban enigres “Hatha
entered into a business deal with geologist David L. Raggio and
a wealthy, right-wing New Orleanian, Gus de LaBarre, forming the
Guatemalahi Lumber and Mineral Corporation. a It was their
intention to train the Cubans on some land in Lacombe, Louisiana
to which de LaBarre had access through his nephew, Frank de

LaBarre. ae After a necessary training period, the group

was to be sent to Guatemala to cut mahogany trees, he Nigh. LE
Lee Dron, im Barina 61E

Ve
A group of about 18 Cubans did alrivex wider thoes

heackiwe ther wap ; @} |
\————. sh a well-know Cuban exile, Victor Paneque (Ibid) who

(HSCA #092

used the military code name of “commadante Diego,

Security File, Senstudy Vol 32, Item 2. #97-4110-123, p. 2)

Cas wore Uperly axcoetd welt Ratittr si the mlitany actiontie G
Capes op eres aad came CTY


DRAFT-MDC-11/8/78
Page 6

Dave ter acbtlent t Hh eee

Da
——— rT
A Pore ORO ot ert RE dressed in khakis (HSCA

FBI, Richard Rudolph Davis, Volume 1, Report from N.O.

#006716, p. 4 | eh the eek that they were to receive military
7/3/64) v9) UGK
training. (Ibid, p. 2)

In the latter part of July, 1963, the FBI conducted a

raid on property near that of the“lumber company’ training camp,

CCR / .
seized a cache of dynamite and other explosives.

(Ibid) This raid, according to Davis, unnerved his trainees,
@®

and they elected to return to Miami. (Ibid)

A somewhat different version of this episode comes from

le An BAZA2,

Gus de LaBarre's nephew and attorney, Frank}~who first related
his story in 1966 to his former law school classmate, Jim
Garrison. Gon #012981, Fonzi memo 9/6/78)

Be LaBarre said his’Uncle Gus‘ had introduced him to

x
Davis, whom Ye LaBarre described as a "floater." They came
to see M% LaBarre about drawing up Articles of Ancorporation

Qgusjn Key
for the Guatemalan Lumber Company and that is when *he/learned
of their plans to bring unemployed Cubans from Miami to train
as lumberjacks. Uncle Gus sent provisions to the exiles on a
daily basis and solicited money for food and clothing from
friends and relatives. (Ibid) cue i!
Bas Aur peck Lint vnbbing Tasming— wee Aas Concduckisl gr th
Camp de LaBarre said he didn't pay much attention to the
‘ om Bloueaen

activities of the group, imt-.,when he heard on his car radio that
the FBI had seized a cache of ammunition at a house in Lacombe,

he immediately called his uncle. Although receiving assurances

that the lumber group was not involved, G LaBarre called the

officers of the corporation together and insisted that the Cubans

however, Told him
be taken out of there. Davis \ekeimedsecording= code fenarrets-

versienp that the Cubans did not want to leave, whereupon


DRAFT-MDC-11/8/78
Page ©]

vA woah
‘eLaBarre{had to do some real “brainstorming." He rented a

Hertz ton-and-a-half truck and instructed Davis to take it to
the camp and tell the Cubans "that the invasion is on." Davis
complied, and the Cubans loaded their gear, jumped in the truck
and were brought to the Greyhound bus terminal in New Orleans.
Each was given a one-way ticket to Miami plus a small amount of
cash and told they would get their orders when they reached
Miami. Looking as though ready for war, with knapsacks and
guns bulging from under their clothes, they boarded the bus, and
Mer was the bast, DeliVace 540d, be Spi 22 Them,
Cde-haBarre had no more contact with them. & The last he heard

he sack, —
of pavisywas in 1964 when one of LaBarre's friends reported
he had gone into business with Davis and was left with a lot
of cae

Other than providing the manpower for the training
camp, Batista was not in this episode nor was the
MDC as an organization.

Concurrent with his involvement with leaders of other
exile organizations, Batista was dealing with foreign governments
in an effort to gain support for his faction of the MDC. After
the World Congress of Christian Democrats in Strasburg, France,
two West German officials of the Christian Democratic Party
conferred with the MDC in Miami. (CIA/DDO, MDC Volume V,
Information cabre(urg-4s31, 1/29/64) According to one of the
officials, the West Germans, after months of study, had decided
to help finance the MDC, not because they were particularly fond
of them but felt once Cuba was liberated, the Cubans would have

a moral superiority over the rest of Latin America. Ibid)


DRAFT-MDC-11/8/78
Page 8

Another offer of help came fron huis Sowoza, former
President of Nicaragua, who Provided 6 MDC a base for opera-
tions in that country, whieh-was—accepted. Qrx/ov0, Laureano
Batista Falla, Volume 1, Information Report CSDB-3-655,718,
7/26/63) Venezuelan President, Romulo Betancourt, allegedly w/s>
offered to make a base available for the MDC and provide it with
personnel and supplies: (CIA/DDO, Laureano Batista Falla,
Volume 1, Information Cable TDCS-DB-3/658,177, 11/14/63)
Recognizing that these Latin American bases of operation
were important to the MDC, Batista nonetheless preferred to
work out of the Miami area. Its proximity to Cuba, good
facilities for operating boats, and the availability of a large
number of Cubans to serve as mechanics and do other necessary
labor made Miami more desirable tha@ the Latin American
facilities. (HSCA Security File 092, Senstudy Document 33, Item
1, #97-4110-86, p. 13) the Sig Grawback in Miami was the
presence of U.S. government officials determined to strictly
enforce the Neutrality Actaud etki Adel dakiliv,

U. S. Customs raided MDC headquarters in Miami on
April 21, 1964 and confiscated a large cache of arms and

(OG:2 , Vol. 32, Otiw 2, Bq7-Y 0-123, G1)
ammunition. Undeterred, the MDC simply relocated the military

section in separate headquarters, ard continued to store materials

for infiltration and attack missions against Cuba,
and
327 Eten 2749 7H 410-1237 PH Study courses in military

bid, ¥Veteme

training and theory,-wexe-atso-comineted—at_the new lacation—

(Ibid, Volume 33, Item 2, #97-4110-132, p. 2) In July, Batista


MDC - DRAFT - 11/8/78
Page 9

and Victor Paneque infiltrated men and equipment into Cuba to

evee hey cor
form a nucleus of guerrilla bands who Sapon-neasipecod adequate

arms and ammunition, planned to go into the mountains of

cura rpia)

The ubeysetiered the fate of other anti-Castro
organizations -- finding it increasingly difficult to finance
infiltration and sabotage missions, and experiencing increased
surveillance by U. §. authorities determined to limit their

Aarti tees
activities. The Feces eer declined i: impextance.

Batista eventually gave up his anti-Castro activities, moved

to Washington, D. C. and received a Doctoral degree in political
science. (HSCA #009303, p- 7, Item 3, FBI #97-4110-207, Report
from Miami, 1/28/70. In the spring of 1970, he moved to

Venezuela.
