# 180-10144-10248

## Page 1

180-10144-10248

where wee

detoriefing

e part

Tow was Af

-Joe Piccolo interview

Sivecopyat release lette

al understan

2..

purpose of HSCA investigation

includis evalation of Agene, performane

3. name, a ge, posest position *address -

4

Position at time of JFK assass

Mala)positions Relain jen'l

5.

6.

1) who was Amme

2) crumstances. o

4hisdefection

3) value to the Agency of Ali defection

4) accuram o tinformation

How did Piccolo get involvedin handling

A/1- What was your role - framwhat

a who else handler Al.

b) haywhat CiA comparent wal

A/i's case handled

if what is wH/sH/c- its purpose

d) does ithaved dimestic exploita-

tion section - whatisits

function

How oftenwas All debriefed-

a first tine; by whom natas

what kind info died he provide

c. what info did Aligive on kHo

case " when t to whom was it

wasit filed

What is Special Intelligence office

180-10144-10248

---

## Page 2

9

Was A i used operationally

a describeuse

Was A ever used taciA in its

efforts to peretrate Culoan Emb in

Mx Cy

1le

Did CIA in fact peretrate cuba

Emb in Mx Cy- prior to JFKassas.

12.

Did you ever show A/s CIA

photos of IHo that vee theproduct n

from surveillance operations n

Mx Cy - from an other coAstation

13

Did you know win Suatt - what

actise Pavid Phillips,

---

## Page 3

1.

in 68894 See pz

#E.

A) Info on Mirabal * Vega d Rodriguer

) Whended Vega arrive " leavein lo,

) What were there cover positions -

1) What wer there duties as t DEl

offiers - seedebrieting #tos Ar

I6 p 3

Did Am/I bringout angeloes onLto

6r Ken. Assas.

2.

An/ flutteeron 11 May 64-

a) was he asked about tito case

b) what washis response

c) how d detailed was questioning

d) who received the report- was

it passed to C/er and DDP, DCI

03. 080A 1763, 1 Mac4

→ Does be lnow what happredtitapes]

B4. Py of 30 Aprilroughdraft

a. What does 2R notation mean

D5. 17 July 64 contact report

a. cho'se AnNiel - cohetwarhis

Knowledge of DEl)MXEy- relatoonste

tO AMMUS, CHA operatindlE

---

## Page 4

be what are appropriate files in

#Y

c. Did ever id a red-haired black

nan

d. Frow what operations weephotos

taken

F6 21 Aug. 67 contatreport

a. Did All ever indicate FReC as

org. In contait c/D51-t0

You knowler was it a DEl front

7:

UFAA -2925 - 1/ attack p3

what do did Al, say about

ARMONA-doyouknowanyth.rg

about Arnona.

8i Die Amnes provide into

•on:

A.) Silva Duran (DEr?)

Eusebio Arcule (coas le DEI)

1 Teresa Proenza

69.

2I JUMe03 ER-390

a. Was proenza of operl interest!

to CIA

D. was she a target

---

## Page 5

48-2467

11935€

c. What was the pro

1. Was Proenze a taigation

if so explain her use

e. Dia Must provideinfo on

her - it so what i in what form

8. New what is a black toge 201

g. Did you hows nethed to file

filed

9.

arket Have you ever heard of

Luisa Calderon - who wasshe

a. What into did Ammay provide

on der E

b. Where was debr.et rg report #40

on Oscoald case filed -

C.. What is SI

d. Was Calderon DEl = her position

ot Agender due st operator.

Who ran it- wl What sackess

fif.

TRAs26Agrid65uses 546601785-65

commenton Itz

g. Was Calderan C/A emplogee

that What was Caldors.

'I saster's

Name- noto was she contacted

---

## Page 6

Did to ever in sester-

by ciA, by Del to your knowlese

1. Didsister supplyinfo on duisa

jo Who would have handled Calderon

Case?

K. Did you ever hear of Calderon

conversatio. 08 22 Nov.=

If so, now-t what was

Segn, Freen l

action taken on the transcript

Gid eron

I. Did anyore ever tell you nor

to relente into on c

alderonor

Proenza

10.

Was Mug Ever Med operat, anales,

O Did this produe enginto

on Caldean or Proenza

b. Did it produce ang new inton

the assass.

then ta are to wAte

K.

see

12.L Explain this memo

550W-4675 CItSMENING

Inc

---

