# 180-10068-10360

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY

: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER

: 180-10068-10360

RECORD

SERIES

: STAFE PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 6

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

---

## Page 2

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10068-10360

RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO .

TITLE:

DATE: 07/11/77

PAGES

6

SUBJECTS :

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

GONZALES, ABLERT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 3

4

GONZALES, Albert

=......

Time of Employce

Address

Andrass

Phone Number

Position Titio

Levol

DATE OF APPOINTMENT

7-11-77

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE

"Months""

OFFICE OF THE CLERX

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES:

PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD .

1978

YEAR

ANNUAL LEAVE •

CATEGORY

1.0

1,5

2.0

ACCRUED

THIS MONTH

ТО 08 20 10 33 2010

DAY OF MONTH

TGT 17118 10 20 21 22 23 21 25

20 / 27

30

Leave

Sick

Lesyc

AYS RAGLEH

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

BALANCE BROUGHT

FORWARD

PRECEDINA YEAR

Sick

Leava

a Posilion Number

Menth

Jon.

Mar.

Арг.

May

Junc

July

Aug•

Sept.

Oct.

Nov.

Dec.

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

BALANCC

Ar CLOSE

OF MONTH

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

INPLOYEE

INITIALS

11

11

YVY

/ /

NOI

= 0.5 day annual leavo

= 1.0 day annual leave

= 0.5 day sick leave

= 1.0 day sick Icave

0.5 day administrative leavo

= 1.0 day administralive Icava

0.5 day unauthorized absence

= 1,0 day unauthorized absence

= 0.5 day leave without pay

= 1.0 day leave without pay

V75778

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employco's Signatura

Dutc

(if employee refuses to sign, state reason below.

Chief's Signature

Date

Approved:

Clerk of the Hous

Dato

This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along

with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employce's official personnel folder..

EXHIBIT

---

## Page 4

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVE!

Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Albert Gonzales

Employee Social Security Number

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

Effective Date

7/15/78

Type of Action

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Title Change

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

• Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business.

Specify Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. • Standing Committee: Staff—• Clerical or • Professional.

2. 0 Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res._256-of 25th Congress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_

..If applicable, Level

Step

I certify that this authorization

is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date-

.., 19

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS

STOKI

(if appropriate, signature of Subcc

mittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code...

Monthly Annuity $

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

ID

Benefits

Payroll _

.00

as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

---

## Page 5

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

Employee Social Security Number

Employing Office or Committee

Effective Date

1/11

Type of Action

Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or • Professional.

2. • Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res.

_ of.

_Congress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

If applicable, Level

Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date_.

19

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

---

## Page 6

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

Expenses of Conmictees: Members and Employees of the U.S. House of

Representatives require

that, among other things, the Committee's

monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of

each employee to any current lember of Congress.

This certification

is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the

certification:

father

no ther

son

daughter

brother

sister

uncle

aunt

first cousin

nephew

niece

husband

wife

father-in-law

mother-in-law

son-in-law

daughter-in-law

brother-in-law

sister-in-law

stepfather

stepmother

stepbrother

stepsister

half-brother

half-sister

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date

this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel

file. If this status changes, you

I must notify the Committee's Bullet

Office immediately of the channe.

I I am not related to ally current (95th Congress) Menber of Congress.

1X I am related

to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

(Please spocify.)

2-11-72-

Date

---

## Page 7

JFK

MEMORANDUM

QUE SONSALES

TIMPLETT

TO :

Chairman Stokes

FROM: Tom Lambeth

Test gall

DATE: June 17, 1977

toy it thi

biti

The attached three recommendations for the employment of investigators

represent Tanenbaum's effort to get his task force moving strongly.

If these three are hired there will remain twelve vacancies for

investigators on the Kennedy task force.

---

## Page 8

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART B. MC KINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES THONE, NEBR.

CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. House of Representatibes

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

MEMORANDUM

TO :

FROM:

DATE:

RE:

TOM LAMBETH

CLIFFORD A.

FENTON, JR.

JUNE 15,

1977

RECOMMENDATION FOR EMPLOYMENT OF

ALBERT GONZALES

It is recommended that Albert Gonzales

be considered for

immediate appointment to the po-

sition of Senior Investigator. He has the investi-

gatory knowledge and skills which are necessary to

aid the effort of the Committee. The nature of his

past employment (20 years in the New York City Police

Department while attaining the highest rank of De-

tective), especially the 8 years worked in the Homi-

cide Squad, evidence the experience which is consis-

tent with our needs. In addition, he speaks Spanish

fluently.

It is felt that Gonzales shows promise of

making a significant contribution to the quality of

our investigation and will be an

asset to our Commit-

tee's

staff.

OKTL

APPROVED:

Polent Amel

Robert K. Tanenbaum

---

