# 180-10141-10186

## Page 1

180-10141-10186

v09-16-96ccr

JEK REORDS

CrOss Reference: None

Status in System:

AGENCY : ESCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10141-10183

RECORD

SERIES & CIA BEGREGATED COLL ECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER • 13-01-01

Other Agency Equity: None

DOCUMENT IN FORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ESCA

FROM : CIA

TO

TITLE

DATE !

00/00/00

PAGES

3

DOCUMENT TYPE

NOTEE

SUBJECT (8)

CLASSIFICATION

SANCHEZ, CARLOS EDJARDO HERNANDEZ, 201 FILE; CIA, FILES;

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

3

CORRENT STATUS

:POSTPONED IN PART

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

* 08/01/95

CONMENTS : Box 5

Date in: 01/26/96

TTFF

'Fr

FFFFFFFF

NH 47055

DocId: 32270987. Page 1

---

## Page 2

Carlos. abduardo Hernandez inchez

I960-IS&Ÿ

f20I File

3rd Agency documents

20 September I967

INS form # G-325

INS file naber A-I2-437215

2. Name check of June 29,I965

3. FBI May I7, I965

Classification secret

Subject : Roberto Alejos Arzu

Xants Luis Sierra Lopez

neutrality matters -IS Guatema

*Fbi file number 2-380

4.+FBI-Octiber 30

28, 1963

subject: Carlos E.H.Sanchez

no file number

given

- win dime Edunito Sanches

Niall wam "BATEA

Biotraphical Date

10/15/34

DOg + 1950- Vent to N.Y. for I moat)s on vacation

• Education: 1953-1957- Lasalle, Vedado-B.S. Srience

21957-59--began

studies at Villanuevi, belonged to: the A.C.U. (?) met

Artime and organized against Bati: ta.

Involved in various clandestine actilities

opened front in Pinar del Rio to figit against Batista, trained others t

there.

-After Batista exiled, Carlos re-direct d'front to fight Castro.

¿(later Pinar del Mt Rio front merged to beco: e MRR)

LIn February of I959 Carlos vent into the Sier ra Maestra with Artime to work

with commandos in INRA for three months. then returned to Havang.

July I959- CArlos continued

studies witk at the University and worked with the

under ground

47055

DocId: 32270987

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Carlos biography cont'd.

Nov. I959- Undergroumd work forces CArlos to cave cuba. At the airport, Carlos

with two friends are arrested. an! Jailed. arrested with Carlos

two friends: Jose Rodriguez and Jose Quintero.

Friend In high position aided relaes of Carl's, and tiro friends. They continued

• on to Miami with tourist visa.

(believed that Cormandante Raul Arguelles Dia: Chief of DIR(Department of Rebel

Investigation aided in release.

Nov. tax I959 Jan I960 Carlos remained as turist in Miami. (Front? gave subje

us subjects money. Cardos so;d pistol.

•Jan. I960 - Artime sent for Carlos and Jose ? Rodriguez to join him (Artime) in

Mexico to work with him on counte revolutional avtivities agatast

Fidel (stro. (PP( probabbly political propoganda) and recruiting

through Mexican Catholic organizations.

'Feb 1960- Carlo s made PP trip with Artime to Jentral America and South America.

: (Carlos acted as bodyguard for Artime-) CArls karate black belt)

March of 1960- Carlos returned to Mexico i ard then went on to Miami-

•(note inquire as to hotels, people visite,? about embassy personnel)

April I960 Carlos recruited for P.M. tr. Indig by ENZEL -Jimmy SMith.

. in file others wou Carlos can be turned over to:

Harold R. Noemay"! Roger Fox"

Alton T Pirnack "IArY"

Carl0s aware he was working for h the CIA

Received full series of training in Clandest: ne operations,

Raider and guerilla operations, maritime op rations, and airdrops.

Limited foreign intelligence duties, DRE mis: i0n

Cuba

Use: PP and PM & (emphasis on PM- supply, or anization, training, tactics,

¡technigues clandestine, guerillauraider sabotage.within Cuba.

Carlos did not know agency personnel by true name. a paid trainee , with a specil

ability to handle and understand arms-$200 m nhtly,

NH

47055

DocId: 32270987

Page

3

---

## Page 4

5323-60-POA

Carlos-granted:-pOl-April-I90: OA-Apri7-4g-I9.2

avocetional interests: auto, Judo, sharpshoot ng

(CArlos had indirect contact with Raul Diaz. Iguerelles during revolution)

'I963-I954- Carlos in Managua Nicaragua z; witz: see sheet #2 of OS notes)

Feb 23 , I96I- considered for project Zenith- arrived at JM/FIG

May given ploygraph for projects PM CADRE

JM.RSK: ARC

area WH 14 Cu a

Political affiliations: Member. MRR

Post: LiAR-legion de Accion Revolucionaria -se :ret revolutionary organizatioin

fourded and cormanded by Manuel F. Artime. (CItholic Organization)

Cormission Revolufionaria de la Universidad Cathodica VilImueva.

Contacts with the 26th of July Movement and the Revolutionary Directorate

during the revolution, (often worked togehher).

Nw

47055 Decid: 32270987

Page 4

---

