# 180-10142-10309

## Page 1

180-10142-10309

Jack euby

STORET

Box 24

Folder 3

1111069:

28 d

6/30

DDO

1065/49

Personzlity File Action Requeat..

TO: RID /adI secten

Feom.... Ann Egerter.

1-9.604

Restricted

Permanent charge.

Acten Dest....

CISI

Code: 731

Branch: CIlS].

THIS COPY IS M

FOR RELEASE

a- menu for chief, CI/SI6

subs':-JackRuby

From Stephen C. millett, Jr. DOC.N0 1207-439

¡FOIA RevIew 1 - 1977

same a 1216-441

who is

"A reliable source"

well versed in labur

affairs informed me today that Jack euby formeri

Rubenstein, was sent to Israel last year with a

delegation at American trade unionists, haung beer

placed on this delegation by Gibbons of the Teamste

Unken. While in New York he was also in cuntact wi

Gleni Bondike... reportea to be an official of the

Histradust (Israel federation of Labor)

a- It was also stated thet the AFL-CIO hase

record that subject appled. last year in New arlean.

to the AFL-CIO offe there for a job as a

union. organizer. "

Article from Wash. Post.

a Feb. 1964 "Ruby's Travels

Included Trips to Cuba and mexico." by Jack Ruby"

William Read woodheld.

7

180-10142-10309

---

## Page 2

SEGRET

2 51

11110692

Salomón Pratkins.. -Hotel seulla.

FOIA DOL. NO. 1209-440

y meno fur the record

as NoU 1963 by Birch B. O'Nea

A 9:10 A.m Papien: called o and stated that he

wanted to be sure we didnt have any additiunz!

information concerning. Ruby..

"I adulsed him that.

had checked our recaras,. includina fou's and entreba

"of the information we had concerning Subject which had br

provided by him (ay Nouember) we have no

intormation relating to him.

A 9:20 Papuh calledgain & said after seara

"there was no indication that he has bee

at FB 1.

out of the United states or that he is a member o

any particular political or subuersive group. He sta

that there was a some indication that he may have

been in cuba in 1959 while westill had an Embassy

there, and there was some information that he alleged!

usited a night club. Mr. Papin uinted out, howew

that this would have been entirely consistent with h

known actruites in the night club business. He sala

that the possibility of his being in cuba should be

considered with a "big question mark."

"I reminded Papien. that we had checked throught

Immigration am Service on the tourist card record

in the mexican Immigration in Neuva barado and

That we had had a response that they were

junable.to.develop. any information concerning his

departure on se ao sept

per. and re-entry. on 3 Octob

---

## Page 3

DEGRET

3

11110693

Iadused him.. that we had not recered a respons

from. a request to. customs Service with regardt

suen departure and entry. Mr. Papish stated that

the Bureau was looking into this matter and

woula keep.me.. infermed. I indicated thatI

warld.not. press. the matter. further with the custom

Service, He is to keep un intormed."

742862

memo.

1-7-64. t0.GIA From Hoover.

mr. carlos villa, 1450 coral way, miami furnunea

a letter.. on 1a-21-63. Leter nad been furwardedt

afriend of his, Jose Antonio Juan. Mr. Juan recerved

letter from son in Cuba.

in leter

"It Is known here that Rubensen wa. here a

lette less than a year ago visiting a mr. Pranski,

dealing in tourist articles

ownerofshops.on

Prado street

between Anima

and Trocadero

opposite the sevilla Boltmore:

information

Bureau has

devlured ne

info

that Ruby

visited there

ever visited Cuba, except an one

occasion in 1959 wher

briefly un a vacation.trip-

i memo for James. Angletun

1-9-64

-03

from AmTOUT-l. From

memo

recervect

Doe

1213-1121

Atached 1s. translation of memo sent to carlos marquez

Sterling a gave a copy. to AmTOUT-l., on SAS/EDE

asset..whopassed.it on to us.

5c. Evidio..

Pereira..... (Brigader of Giron)

informs

that

Ruby was in Havana a yr. ago. to see Praskin.

IInfo .

received. by Brigadier of Brigade 250k

Evidio: Pereira..

•Evidio B. perrera Accosta,

OPOR

la march

201-298242

$20:27- Gral, Carrilo

Las Villas.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 4

SECHET

11110534

No sAs traces on. Prastin

Later suggests Bureau interulen Pereira

WHe is truing at

8als4 and st, miami, Fla.

Includes intervow of Pereira-by fBI.

SAS Dispatch from ImWAvE.

Into received. tom AMsPELL

AmsPELL repurts the letter was sent airmall, pastmarke

as Dee 1963 & sent to fet tuna more Isra, Juana

Barreiros.

Received 13 Jan 1963.

allegather made by sister in laus of AmEri

Graziella RUBIU y Rivera.

what is a Senstive Document Input Record.

Document Transter E crow. Rejerence.

"sometime arcina. may 64 = war, given a photographo

by a minister who I met through a mutual Friend.

The photographs shows Ruby and orwald

Together.

100-300 017

D B C- 04902.

17. Jan. 68

FBI

SECRET

---

## Page 5

A-. memo dated... Nou a6, 1963

FOIA ReuIew. .

Document No, 1210-1126

fur

11110705

subject: Ruby

By: Birch D. O'Neal.

checked RID files on Tackluby, atso known as

Leen. Rubenstein. Revealed. that John Reed Gorman a was

investigated in 1954, 1952 8.1953.

Paul Crouch aduised FBI

that. Tack Rubensten," Director, young communist league in

who.sould.be.reacned.through the National Office of ti

Textile workers! Unrun of. America, New Yurk

& his wife

marion Rubenstern, wite might have into on Gorman.

10- menu.. Fur Chief, cI (IC6) 2DeC 1963 Subj: Jack Ruben

From Stephen C. Mullett, Jr. FOIA DoC. No 1212-1

Reliable source reported that f. Rubenstein

born in. 1905 Poland, resielent of N.T., wisitec

Israel.from 18 may. 1962 to

" 7 June 1962 with

wife. minnie..

Il- same memo as (20 6) above: complete quate from letter

"The Brigadier of Giron, Sr. Evididio Pereira, w

in constant communication with Cuba, informs the Gene

Delegate of the movieniento Patriotica Cuba Libre,...

news of great importance.

1. Notify the Pentagos of this fact: Ruby, the

assassin of oswald. was in. Havana a ye

ago. He is

sciend and custumer of cicitizen

---

## Page 6

SEPT

named Praskin, owner..or manager of a novelty shop

tourists locared between. Animas y Trocadero, Pasec

del prado, in front.. of the Hotel Sevrlla."

"This in formation recelved in miami, asinoted a

the beginning of this mensilse, were reserved

by Brigadier of Brigade 2506, Eudio Pererra, who

is ready to verify them. New York, ag December 196

memo for Howver .. from. Angleton- subj: Tack Ruby.

XAA2 - 22818..

: 30. Jan 1964.. States that the Agency

has received a report frum a source to the effect that

Ruby was. in: Havana in late 1962 or in early 1963.

Relates suidio Bernardo Pereira Acosta stury.

location of Pereira. Suggests FBI Interview Perer

Interview of Pereira- 2-7-1964.

Euidio stated he was a prisuner in cuba after B.CPP

Showed a letter dated.

12-3-63 frum Hawana containi

the Ruby being in as Cuba story. Pereira had no knowk

as to the original source of infu, Letter was from a

mambar.afthe Cuban.Redcross who he correspendswi

See

NO

Dispatch

attacheer 2p. bulletin & envelup ve from Cuba.

Dispatch. to. Chief.SAS. FrOM JMWAUE.

295

2/13/64.

Ref: WAUE-1283, 29 January 1964.

"+•

"AMsPelL reports... the letter was sent airmail,

omarkea 28 December 1943, and sent to a fictitous

---

## Page 7

11110597

no 201.

name (Sra. Juana Barrerros) and recenued in the

AMSPELL PO- Box 168, main station, miami, Florida.

AMspelL further reported that the sender's name

n0201

appearing. on the envelope (Alicia Cardoso)

is also false.. The letter was recered on 13 January

.2. The correspondence from cuba referred to in

paragraph three of. Reference was not obtainable

according to Amspelh... The latter stated the letter

was recerved. frum cuba by airman, addressed to

AMLUNCH -l, who was not willing to cooperate

handing the letter over to AmsPELL. Reportedly the

informatien. contained in the letter reached ODENUt,

Who also asted the recipients cooperation. The later

delivered only asmall portun of the letter to ODENVY

where the infurmation appeared, of which Amspellsubmi

the following resume, made by the recipient of the

letter.

(no 2c1)

"Salumen Pratkins owned a tourist stere

located across the street from the sevilla

Hotel, in Prado street in Havana, Ruby

was a habitual isitor at this store

While. hestayed in Havana in 1962 ana

1963. Ruby flew to Havana from Mexico

City.."

3 Almatached.a copy of stary rebaved by Amspell on

29 Tan .1964

to wireseruices, miami news.

---

## Page 8

SECRET ®

11110593

Cable- to mexico city la march 196%.

"meivin m. Belli, traveling to mexico.

FromiRichera..Helms

Unit: DDP

ITE DIR

8** 5353

Date i8 mar Gu.

5574

2-iFBI Repurt

4-6-64

..re radio program @Paul Bernel @ StanleyRo

p3. "Bethel sad that "we," and when he said " we"

he was not speaking fur the citizens committee at that

pant becaue they had to be checked out caretully

before "we" would ssue it at all -- but "we" had

been notined by people where rudgment "we" trut

that Ruby had been in luba several times after the brec

in relations, and the only way that this man could

get in there, of course, was clandestinely.. He then asked

who.waula. be.interested in getting mom into cuba

clandestinely. Certainly nut friends of ours. He added

that this information was obtained from several suurce

p.6

- Bethel stated. in later interunew by FBI that "Ruby trip

to Cuba might have nod. gambling connections centered

around the. Hotel Capri, in. Havana, Cuba, whore

frant man was supposed. to be beurge Raft, the move

actur...Is sources adulsed that Ruby halbeen in Cuba

either... two or three times, rubsequent to the break in

eatens in fraur 1960: one of the soures whom he

---

## Page 9

10

SECRET

11110700

¡considered. relanie! is Jose Lanuza. Bethel sa

Lanuza. coula furnah into re the background uf

ilHo and of his efforts to infiltrate DRE.

Secondsource was Salvador Lew, knownas Dr.L

who is with a miami legal firm. Lew can de

reached through miami phone FR 1-5606.

Another suurce- De. Fernando Carandi, Miami.

1 Doc. Transter & cross Reficara.

"Por doc subj. repurted in cuntact James kelley le

and German burn wife Ingred. Ingrid iden as sou.

agent. Her husband James former UsAF Intel offcer.

lowes were in cumpany of ruby and lee oswalch

some 6 t08 weeks. priur to assassination of pres.

201-289249

108B. - 21509

3 Sept 65

FBI Document

Doc. Transter. El Cross. FefCard.

HIt wa understanding afsource that Garrisun

had been. conducting exhaustive search to locate

man. named fou Dmare /P/ suprused to nave

traveled to salveston, Texas. about time of assassination

there. net with Ruby and ferrie.

088-82786

LO JUNE 67 FBI

CONC

---

## Page 10

11110701

Doe transfer & Cross Ref.

...sonetime arouna- may 64.I was given a

photogranto by a minister uho = met

through a mutual friend. The shutographs

shows Ruby and oswald together,"

FBI due. 17 Jan 1968.

memo. For FBI. flum Angleten 6-19-67 FOIA Ia1)-1

пласко

Royers talkeck@ano.reset Agency.

Rusers, hasspoken @ Garrsun Estaff. "He has been to

by a member of Garrison's staff that barrison has def.

prout that Ruby was once hospitalized in New orrec

That oswald wiltec him in the huspital, that they

o there engaged na. homosexual act, that they wer

caught, and that oswald was arrested.

¡FBI repurt

sept 3, 1965

ee James kelley Lowe IS-I

On... August 26,1965 vesto. suurce

stated that

James kelley howe aduised informant that he was a

former.intelligence.olficen in the us. Air force, and

that he German-burn. ate angria Lowe, nee Bernhaud

was a Souiet Agent. howe

indicated he. met nit wifi

in, Austria, in 1962 and subsequently marrica her on

Dallas, Teras on 19644....

howe stated he & his wie

met who and Jack Ruby at

way's place of business sume. 6 t08 wks orior to the

assassination...

an Augut 31,1965

---

## Page 11

11110702

been arrested on Augs, 1965- illegal. possession of

¡dangerous drugs.

an sent.

1, 1965 lowe refed

ito

*comment to FAI

under adurce of counsel.

WAVE 1283=

CAble frem d miami dated 30 Jam 64

1"a4 Jan Bluestreak Editor Miami News carried

toll

news item titled "Ruby United Cuba--Exiles Say,"

Jack Ruby, killer of President Kennedy's accurech assadin,

has uisited cartros cuba, exile grump here charged today.

Ruby. flew from mexico City to Havana latter part Dec 3

jon mexicana right, said spokesman fur Cuban drE.

is organitation unich Gote be ...

"students said them

first learned af Ruby's. Havana visit several weeks ago, but

delayed mak, ne any statement until complete check had

deen made

with their suuree on iland. Accurding to

junderground communications, Ruby stayed in Havane

until early Tannaryad, trequenting a tourststore

owned by man named, Solomon

Pratkins, store wa

located on El Prado

across street from Seuilla Biltme

totel....

2- DRE had firt repur eu this to waus on 1a Jar

3- "Des uso alleged above was confirmedby

cunar exile (not identshed) who had received

letters conterning information on this matter.

wme requested.

DeE proude griginels of

mimeograph bullet in & letters

plus.sdent.ty

recrpients.t

senders. Pespite promise to du so,

---

