180-10140-10245) oiopecs ee eee
te eo ee BAMVEL L BENE One
Peden incon SR
Soon co AO ST aachans :
$ Sale Select Committee on Assassinations ‘ BeeF
Povlerd
wn U.S. house of Representatives - GALLE
ae 8931 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX? + ,
WASHINGTON, B.C. 20535 . 7

March 2, 1978

‘ir. Patrick Carpentier

Office of the Legislative Counsel
Central Intelligence Agency
“ashington,:D. C. 20505

Dear Mr. Carpentier:

> 7" In-conneétion with its investigation into the circumstance
urrounding the death of President Kennedy, the Select Committee
om Assassinations requests access to all files and: index refer-
ces pertaining tc the foliowing individuals: :
t _) MAURILCE..BISHOP,. aka. JOHN BISHOP, JIM BISHOP, and FNU
a FIRGAULT. This name is most likely an alias and this
: individual's true name is not known to the Committee.
Bishop was working in anti-castro Operations in the
early 1960s. He was also allegedly involved in a plot
to assassinate Fidel Castro in Chile in 1971 with an-
tonio Veciana and Luis Posada.

“—

{" 2) } WIROGUE. - cra agent involved.in the ZRRIFLE program.
ihe :

Further identifying ‘information on the following individual
ill be given orally, pursuant to an agreement between Bob Genzme
i our staff and Roger Gabrielson of your staff.

3) GEORGE BREEN

4)

5) WILLIAM V. BROE i

6) JIM DELANEY Do NOT REPRODUCE
7). JERRY FOX RETURN TO CiA

8)

9) CHESTER ITO

10) ELWOOD p. (Pete) MARTIN

: 190 -/0/L0 - 10380


March 2,
Page 3

eee “sir. Patxviek Carpentier
: .1978

Joseph Burkholder iced
Rudy Bruno

Charles Flick
: Dan Vogél Ee
a Arthur Dooley

Wesley J. -Leibeler
Howard P. Willins
W. David Slawson

_ William Coleman

Samuel Stern

we George -Frederi ro

Floryan Randolph Karty
Oliver Ni Primack

‘Finally, this ‘etter serves as written confirmation of
an oral request by staff researcher Dan Hardway for:

“ay

» 2)

* GRB: jhd

Originals of any existing surveillance production
and. logs of any operations directed at the Soviet
and Cuban Embassies for the period of 9/26/63 to
to 10/3/63, in Mexico City.

Any 201 files pertaining to FNU ,Nunez Portuondo.

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerely,

Plex Veadre,

G. Robert Blakey
Chief Counsel and Director

’
