# 180-10144-10106

## Page 1

180-10144-10106

Kanto, Mauia.. C-7913 SECRET

11112409

In. Julyeet In 1961.

Antindated PRO. Part Induates that Kentor was dora ox May 9, 1934

in tew York lity He is listed as a U.S. lize ake, at that time, was

a student at the Unweety of Copeakagen, true Flads. His travel

steide the country of present Midine is listed as follow:

seamark July 26,1957-Vlay 31, 1958.

USSR

May 31,1958 - July 9.1958 to stay with an acle in MinsE).

Dermark. July 9, 1958 - Now. 25,1958

4.5.A

Nor. 25,1958 - J. 30, 1959

Denmark. Jak. 30,1459 - Present

in the list Indels and youe of satever

He sewed in the USMC from 1952 to 1955p and In the UST Revere

from 1955 until Oct. 8, 1960. Bott of Is parents were bork in Russea

A request fu a POA. You orde to aces Saljet ROSKIN

ICIMPROVE And LHARVEST potestial was made on tet. 17, 1961.

dy likad IT. Walsh, WE-I/Parnack

a POA. was granted for contact, assement and polygrape cely in

Marck 1, 1961 in a memo t Chief, NE /1/ Reamack, Atte

Cables indiate that Kaster was met wy

under allas on.

a apil f May 1961

2 reason pauling which time he revealed himself to the a long like

but unwilling RIS contact in Copenhagen

SECRET

Last able, dated lug 15, 1961, to Quietor from

indecates that

snored montact subject uno fast returned for Yugodama More departare

for there york in early septer.

10144-10106

RETURNTO CIA

Backgroundause Only

Do Not Rearoduce

---

## Page 2

SECRET

11112410

Marren Kantor (201-279,910)

Kantois 201 file contacks:

1) Several exvelopes containing theid ageney' documents:

2) LIA reports to otte govermental agenues outering

the Agency's information on kantor

3) ITA internal repots conceang agency costact With Kaster:

A 5/5/61 Report of contact meetings with Kantor on May 3C 4

meludes a section entitled "enual Information minok in

1959" This eludes information on construction, food supplies,

the tick OVIR. the stead connenety in Minsk, te. Che para

graph states: (#2s on p. 8 of report)

"Is addition to the unesty, there are several ticknes tate.

tetes, het Kaver lad no opportanity of meting then. He rener.

wis that le tale pased by a sulding whiel Aren a

milary reclares matcute "wyennonauchayy intatieut%,

Jut wittout a map he was not able to describe it loeation."

A 28 page report of 4/4/61 describes the contacts with Kanter on

Aprel // and 12. This repost details Kanters personal i educational

background, hi's financeal states, dis witts to the USSR of 531/58-

9/58 and 612159-9/8159, die ulatures in the USSP, And his contact

wite soret officials RIS and otei Ameras students out

with ta soite. Ise repost goes into conseducable detail concuring

his contacts with set official, the attempt hy RIS to

recult hen While he Was In Muck in late tilly 1959 (p.Mh),.

the sutrequent expules from the USSR (p. 20) and ches

later contacts wilh soviet official And MRIS upbR his retres

to lopeckagen.

SECRET

---

