# 180-10141-10015

## Page 1

1180-10141-10015]

Khi

Kun, p. can file

(202) 225-4524

Ce!

de most stashith

Assassinations

C.E. House of Ricpresentatibes.

Вок 11

3342 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20515

710

I cIc # 73-

July 19, 1978

:22

eltem

/

COMMITTEE SENSIT

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator/HSCA

Office of Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

as redacted

STURBITTS, LA DIY,

Responding.

Dear Mr. Breckinridge:

This letter is written to follow-up the conversation

that Chairman Stokes had with Admiral Turner.

The following are those individuals that the Comnittee

would appreciate the assistance of the Agency in arranging

interviews with in Mexico next week:

05 June Cobb Sharr

Castero mistress-

Henry P. LopezD=/'Edward G. Tichborn,

Gen. Jose Jesus Clark Flores

(Manuel Calvillo - unwiting cropte]

24

Al Witrich (sp?)

Luis Alberu Suoto

Consuelo Esperon

Noe Palomares

Ramon Joseph

Alvarez Durant -

LIONION I ]

If additional identifying data is required, I will be

glad to provide it orally.

Because information referring to some of the people

listed above may be of a sensitive or classified nature, this

letter may require appropriate classification.

I Dried i

Mickack Gal damith

24-159-41978

Sincerely,

2. RoberBlahy

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: Am

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

5782

141-10015

140-10122

---

