180-10131-10335)

JFK Assassination System Date: 10/19/20
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: — 180-10131-10335

RECORD SERIES: SECURITY CLASSIFIED TESTIMONY

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 014733

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: — [Restricted]
TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 04/28/1978
PAGES: 65

SUBJECTS :
CIA, METHODOLOGY
[Restricted]
OSWALD, LEE, POST RUSSIAN PERIOD, TRAVEL, TRIP TO
MEXICO
MEXICO CITY

DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION : Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/21/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: Box 8

wl 1

HW 50955 Docld:32277220 Page 1


HEARINGS

Before ‘The.



LaFrance
dqg

13 ursuant to notice,’in the offices of the Select Committee
oe 2
1 :
i | .
14 1 on Assassinations, Room 3370, House Office Building Annex IT,
\ : 7
1S 2nd and D Street, Southwest, Washington, D. C., beginning at
| i
|
16 |

>
a

|
i}
i

NW 50955 Doclda:32277220

18) behalf of the respective parties:

TOP SECRET

ene

e ‘-

FRIDAY, APRIL “28, 1978

House of Representatives
Eat brits rereeced abe EEE

rarer

Select Committee on
Assassinations

Washington, .D. C.

Deposition of)

HERBERT MANELL

12 called for. examination by counsel for. the subcommittee,

MICHAEL GOLDSMITH, Counsel ,

DAN HARDWAY, on the staff'of the Subcommittee

TOP SECRET

Page 3

Subcommittee’on the Assassination
of John F...Kennedy of the ..

1:00 p.m., before Albert Joseph.LaFrance, a Notary Public

W7 in and for the District of Columbia, when were present on,

009983



TOP SECRET ~~

Paice
‘ : |
ry TESTIMONY OF “HERBERT MANEL,
ast 2 ||. Whereupon, :
3 ut HERBERT MANELL
@ 4 was called as a witness and, having ‘been first. duly sworn,
5 was examined and testified as follows
6 i Mr. Goldsmith. Will you pieate state your name and
7 occupation for the record.
8 Mr. Manell. I am Herbert Manell, Staff Officer of the
9 CIA. : : , |
10 Mr. Goldsmith. How long have you been with the CIA?
n Mr. Manell. Twenty-seven years.
12 Mr. Goldsmith. Mr. Manell, have you read the letter
13 :

dated March 23, 1978, from the acting DCI. to the Chairman of

14.1 the committee?
1s j Mr. Manell. I have.

| {
16 i Mr. ‘Goldsmith. Do you understand that letter? H
vi Mr. Manell. I do.

}
18 i Mr. Goldsmith. Under the committee's rules, Mr. Manell,

19 | the witness has a right to receive a copy of the deposition

20 that he gives to the committee. However, by virtue of the

2 arrangement that we have worked out with the Agency, the

\
Geeeee : |
‘ é : I!
aig 2] Agency has asked us to obtain a waiver from each witness, |
@
” i {
“3 from each Agency witness, a waiver of the right specifically
|
ca te receive the transcript. You may have access to it to review

it for accuracy, but you may not have the ‘right to actually

WH 50955 ee Page 4 . TOP SECRET oe _ uy


TOP SECRET

3,
|
1 receive it. That is to say, we are asking you to waive the
2 right to receive the transcript.
3 Are you willing to waive that right?
@ 4 i Mr. Manell. Do I have to waive that right?
5 Mr. Goldsmith. Absolutely not. However, if you do
6 not waive the right, we will not have the deposition.
7 Mr. Manell. I will waive the right, then.
8 Mr. Goldsmith. You are testifying here today without
9 subpoena and freely?
10 Mr. Manell. I am.
WV | Mr. Goldsmith. For purposes of background, the committde
12 | is mandated to investigate the assassination of the President]
@ : 13 | who did it, was there a conspiracy and to evaluate the per-
‘ 14 | formance of the investigative agencies, specifically the CIA
1S and the FBI. Do you understand that?
16 Mr. Manell. Yes.
7 Mr. Goldsmith. Were you located in Mexico City in
18 1963?
9 Mr. Mariell. TI was.
20 Mr. Goldsmith. What was your position at that time?
2 Mr. Manell. I was head of the Soviet section of the H
2 |

station, of the CIA station in Mexico City.

4 Mr. Goldsmith. What were your general responsibilities?

i Mr. Manell. My responsibilities were basically two- '

4 Ht fold; one being counterintelligence monitoring and to negate

4
f
\

HW 50955 | ae : TOP SECRET qs


TOP SECRET

1 the activities, of the Soviets; secondly, to attempt to
as . 2. recruit Soviets.

3 Mr. Goldsmith. Were you involved in any, of the sur-
@ 4 veillance operations that were mounted against the Soviets?

5 By surveillance, I-mean the tap opération and the photo-
6 surveillance operation of the Soviet Embassy compound .

? Mr. Manell. ‘I was not personally involved.

8 Mr. Goldsmith. You just received the Heo ated
9 that came from that operation?

Mr. Manell. Yes.

3s

wu Mr. Goldsmith. Before we get into more detail, who

12 | was the station chief in 1963?

@ 13 | Mr. Manell. Win Scott.

; is | Mr. Goldsmith, Was Ann Goodpasture an employee of the
1S _station also?
16 Mr. Manell. She waa!
7 Mr..Goldsmith. What were her station responsibilities?
18 Mr. Manell. She had many responsibilities. That

19 | included being an assistant to the chief of station. She
20 was also a person who had some: type of responsibility, for
ral collecting the photos: that we obtained of Soviet Embassy

22 | activity, and I think she was also involved to some extent

3

in the telephone tap operations that we conducted against

24 the Soviets in Mexico City.

2
«

Mr. Goldsmith. Is it fair to say, she was Win Scott's

TOP SECRET wy

AW 50955 Docld:32277220 Page 6



2

3 |

24

sosss voniesseornna Page 7 TOP SECRET il : GI

_ TOP SECRET

right-hand person?
Mr. Manell. That-is a question of definition there, and
I don't think it is a fair question. :

Mz. Goldsmiths, Did ishe have, a very: Close working
relationship ree Mr. scott?. a

lr. Manell.'- She certainly aid.

Mr. Goldsmith. Did he rely. on her a lot?

Mr. Manell. They relied on many bf us quite a bit.

Mr. Goldsmith. pid he rely on Ann .Goodpasture a lot?

Mr. Manell. Yes, he did.

Mr. Goldsmith. You mentioned Miss Goodpasture was
involved ‘in some way in the photo-surveillance operation.

Mr. toned! Phat is right.

Mr. Goldsmith. What was the extent of her responsi-
bilities?

Mr. Manell. I can't-really define it too well at this
distance in time. I deals know whether she actually managed
the people who took the photographs. . That might have heen
her responsibility. . It might. have been someone else's. °
But she certainly did handle the. finished product at. the

station. : aoe : : H

Mr. Goldsmith. By handling, you mean she reviewed the

photographic tapes?

“Mr. Manell. That is: right.

Mr.. Goldsmith. After that operation, what was her


TOP SECRET

1 responsibility?
Mr. Manell. . I can't really tell you. I’ can't remember

3 whether it was her or someone else. She might have been an

oO ee alternate officer in that type of support operation. I don't
5 think she was the principal. I am not sure.
6 Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know whether Tom Keenan was the
7 | principal?
8 Mr. Manell. At one time, I think he ‘was. |
fd Mr. Goldsmith. Was Ann the person who brought the

transcript into the station?

2°:

VW ‘Mr. Manell. At times, yes, I believe she-did, but I
12 am not entirely sure. Tom did that also, and Frank Estan
e : 13 Cona also did that.

Mr. Goldsmith. Before we proceed, I guess there is one;

other guestion I should ask you.
16 Has anyone from the CIA contacted you in any way in
v7 reference to your testimony before the committee today: or in
| :
13 | reference to the interview that you gave us about.a*month ago?!
197 Mr. Manell. Yes. I was contacted, by legal Bounsen
20 | who gave me advice to be absolutely forthcoming in my
21 testimony, and he said exactly what your Weve says here; |
rise 22 | that the secrecy agreement is waived for this day's session, /
@ = ea Goldsmith, Any other contact? i
- | Mr. Manell. No. ard ae : é
A il Mr. Goldsmith. I also take it that during the half
| Bearer rae ae i. |
!

7 TOF SECRET =e

50955 Docld:32277220 Page 8


TOP SECRET

1 }} hour lunch break since your wife testified this morning,

2 you did not discuss the substance of this in any way?

3 Mr. Manell. Just briefly. In no significant way.
@ 4 Mr. Goldsmith. Did you discuss the questions that
5 were going to be asked in any way?

6 Mr. Manell. No.

~

Mr. Goldsmith. With regard to the telephone tap opera-
8 tion, approximately how many phones were tapped?

|
9 Mr. Manell. I can't recall, but we had telephone tapped

in the Soviet Embassy at their commercial ‘section, their

r

VW consular section, the embassy proper, and their military

712 attache office.

@ 3 | Mr. Goldsmith. That is what was referred to as their
14 i liaison operation; is that correct?
1s Mr. Manell. Yes, it was.
16 Mr. Goldsmith. There was a unilateral operation? |
7 Mr. Manell. Yes, there was.
18 Mr. Goldsmith. Did ‘that cover a different phone?
19 Mr. Manell. My recollection is bad on that. I

20 | believe that the unilateral telephone taps were placed
H
2 exclusively on the residences of Soviet officials. That is |

2 | my recollection.

ay Mr. Goldsmith. Was the coverage constant with regard
24 | to these. telephone taps? |
as i i

Mr. Manell. The coverage was constant within the embasqy,

i

TOP SECRET a

HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 9


22.

© 3

24

HW 50955 _ i TOP SECRET i ag

-unilateral taps, they were not constant. They. were placed on

“phones that we did have covered in the’ embassy were just

‘in that policy decision. TI don't ‘believe Estan Cona was

TOP SECRET

except I think that from time to time, we might have taken

one tap off one line and put it on another. As far as the

an individual for a léngth of time to gain information, about...
him, his habits, his family, his eee eee and then taken “off
and placed a someone else.

Mr. Goldsmith. -By constant, what I mean is while the
tap was in operation on a particular phone, it was con-
stantly in effect? Whenever the phone call came in the tap

would be triggered?

ir. -Manell. Indeed.
Mr. Goldsmith. Who made the policy decision as to which
phones would be covered?

Mr. Manell.. Well, it was basic practice that all of thd

covered naturally and normally because that is what we

wanted to. have reporting on. As far as changing from one |
line to another, it would have’ been a mutual agreement between|
myself and Win Scott, or Win might have decided to change a
line.

Mr. Goldsmith. When’ were the people actualiy invoived

in the operation itself, Ton ®eenan, Estan Cona, Goodpasture

involved in those types of policy decisions?.

Mr. Manell:. Tom Keenan gon't think was ever involved



“22
@ 3

24

NW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 11

TOP SECRET

aaa either. As far as Annie, I am not sure, but I
doubt that she -- she could have been involved ‘in making. a
suggestion like that, yeas :

Mr. Goldsmith.. With regard to the tap operation, what
product did you actually receive? “In other words, what was
the take from that operation? : :

Mr. Manell. well, the take was both in Spanish and
Russian. Russian when a Soviet communicated with another
Soviet in another part of the embassy, or a Soviet at his
residence ox somewhere outside the perishes Sonam Gated it
someone inside*the embassy. ‘The ‘Spanish product was, of
course, when a:native called in to the embassy or when an

official called out.

Mr. Goldsmith. You would get, in effect, a Russian tape,

or a Spanish tape of a particular conversation?
Mr. Manell. That is right.
Mr. Goldsmith. What would be done with the tape? »
Mr. Manell. It was first reviewed by my wife --
Mr. Goldsmi th. Before that, it would be transcribed,
would it not?

Mr. Manell. It would be transcribed first in Spanish.

‘The Russian language portions were indicated so that our

Russian language transcribers would.transcribe it. At one
time we had a transcriber in the embassy proper in our sta-

tion to transcribe it. After that man's departure, I believe

TOP SECRET O1



Ss

{
2s.

i
(
i
i
i

il

HW 50955 Doold:32277220 Page 12

TOP SECRET

that all Russian language translations were done outside the

10

embassy.

ure Goldsmith. Were the transcripts that you eels
literal translations or transcriptions?

Mr. Manell. They were supposed to be literal, put I am
sure that shortcuts were taken when a non-essential or unin-
teresting conversation took place, but each conversation had
to be transcribed.

Mr. Goldsmith. Where would the transcript be filed
after béing reviewed?

Mr. Manell. They would be filed in our office, in our
registry.

Mr. Goldsmith. Would any of the transcripts be sent to
CIA headquarters?

Mr. Manell. Rarely.

Mr. Goldsmith. Eventually, were the transcripts taken
from Mexico City station and sent to. headquarters?

Mr. Manell. Rarely. “It would only happen if there’
was a rather important and ‘interesting excerpt. that we thought
headquarters needed or headquarters would have asked for.

Mr. Goldsmith. As a’matter of routine, they would not?

‘ |
Mr. Manell. As a matter of routine, they certainly were

|
. |
not sent to headquarters.

Mr. Goldsmith. In speaki

of files, what kind of

attitude did. Win Scott have towards files? —

TOP SECRET = et


TOP SECRET

| Mr. Manell. His attitude was that most everything

11

cat 2 should be kept, recorded, filed, crossfiled, indexed. He had
3 a penchant for having materials that some of us considered
@ 4 even unimportant be filed. His was the most complete

5 registry, probably, anywhere in the world, outside of head-
6 quarters.

7 Mr. Goldsmith. Have you served at other stations so
8 that you could make that comparison?

2 Mr. Manell. Yes, I have.

Mr. Goldsmith. As station chief, was Scott very compe-

nN tent and demanding?

12) Mr. Manell. He was both.
@ 13 | Mr. Goldsmith. Approximately how much time would pass
14 | from the moment that an intercept came in until a trans-
\
1S cript was received?
4
16 | Mr. Manell. _ I can't recall exactly right now, but I
W would imaging possibly two, three, four days at most.
18 Mr. Goldsmith. It might take somewhat longer if it
19 needed to be translated from ‘Russian into English?
20 Mr. Manell.. Yes. The transcript would then go out
2 with the original tape to our transcriber.
2 | Mr. Goldsmith. With regard to the photo-surveillance
3 operation, who regularly reviewed the photographs that came
| in? ,
as i

»
i

Mr. Manell. Annie Goodpasture.

HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 13 TOP SECRET es



TOP SECRET

i . 12

1 | Mr. Goldsmith. Stepping back for a moment, after. the

‘| as : 2 transcript came in, who reviewed those at first, when they
3 ‘came in?
@ 4 Mr. Manell. I think Annie always took an interest in

3 reading the transcripts, but the actual responsibility for
6 | reading, analyzing the transcript at the early point of my
? stay in Mexico was the responsibility of my wife, Barbara
8 Manell.

9 _ Mr. Goldsmith. I should indicate that we are always i

going to be discussing 1963 unless I mention to the contrary.

3S

W So your, wife. would read the transcripts. Would ‘she

12 decide to whom they would be routed?

@ 13 ! Mr. Manell. ‘Yes, she would, and I would also. ti it
14 was her primary responsibility to do that.

‘is | .“Mr. Goldsmith. . Now on the photos, who would review

i :

16 them when they came in?

V7) Mr. Manell: Annie Goodpasture would, réview them. I

18 ‘might make mention, though, with regard to the review of

19 telephone tap transcripts, I believe, and I certainly

remember, that before the assassination of President Kennedy

a and certainly during ‘the period OF the ‘Tatter part of the |

ae 22°) summer of 1963, my wife was’ not’ working eight’ hours a day and |
3 not coming in every day necessarily into. the office.
1 | : : eee: het |

Mr. Goldsmith. Why do you make mention of that?

Mr..Manell. Because you asked the question of who

il

HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 14 TOP SECRET , De.


TOP SECRET

1 regularly. reviewed the transcripts. . In that case, I would

aR peer)

ace 2 review them.

3 Mr. Goldstiith. -That was, my next question; who would
eo i 41 review ta, in your abeencal :
5. .° Mr. Manell. tyould.

6 Mr. Goldsmith. Would those transcripts “be reviewed in

vs chronological order?

8 Mr. Manell. Most likely.
i I
9 Mr. Goldsmith. How many hours a day was your wife H
normally working?

rs

1 Mr. Manell. During parts of the tour in Mexico, she
12 worked eight hours a day’. at times, less than that.

& ‘43 { Mr. Goldsmith. Specifically the period ‘of late summer
i441. 1963; early fall?

_Mr. Manell. I can't recall exactly, and I haven't dis-

cussed this with her and I don't know what her recollection
7 is. But r know she was not working: regularly during August
and’ September of that year.

19 Mr. Goldsmith. When you -say she was not working regu-
20 larly, do you.mean she was ‘not comin ia ‘every day or that

2 she was coming in every day but not working eight hours? |

yO BY +. Mrs Manell. It was that she-did not.work eight hours.
” i :
e 3) and she did not necessarily come in every day, as I recall.
| ee . : |
24 | But then again, my memory is vague about that. I know she’ |
asf a : :

id i was not working full time.’

TOP SECRET gue

NW 50955 DoclIa:32277220 Page 15


14

TOP SECRET
1 Mr. Goldsmith. I guess at this point, for the purpose
rate : 2 of the record, you did mention before that you'did discuss

3 with your wife during lunch in some way her testimony this
@ 4 morning.

5 Mr. Manell. Principally I asked her whether she was

6 dealt with courteously. That was my principal: question.

7 Mr. Goldsmith. What was her response?
8 Mr. Manell. She was.’
: 1
9 Mr. Goldsmith. I certainly hope that was the case. 7
Mr. Manell. It was.

o

YW Mr. Goldsmith. Did your wife mention to you that we
12 had asked her about the transcripts?

3 . Mr. Manell.” Yes, but with no elaboration.

® ;
= 14 | Mr. Goldsmith. She did not discuss the substance in
1s any other way with you?

Mr..Manell.- No. So, you see, there might be a variance
V7 between what she said and what Tsay because it is a question.
ia} of recollection.

19 Mr. Goldsmith. I understand. It seems there was a

20 procedure whereby, as a general rule, your wife would routinely

5 Ee H
yal review the transcript or you would review the transcript |
1
wo aoe : |

22 || when she was not there. / °

wa Was there’a similar: rule for the take from the phot-

24 surveillance operation?

Mr. Manell. - No,\,there wasn't. 1-7"

i

TOP SECRET qe

HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 16


TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Goldsmith. Why not?

Set

aa 2 Mr. Manell. Ann Goodpasture generally felt that this
3 was her area of responsibility. While. my wife and I had
@ 4 access to the photographs, it was mostly when Ann thought
5 there was sométhing important to show us that we saw the
6 product or when .we felt that we had to review the product of
7 a certain day or certain hour’ to confirm or deny certain ae
8 mation we had that we asked to see and did see whenever we

9 wanted the product for the particular period.

id Mr. Goldsmith. As a matter of routine, you did not
il | review those photographs?
12 Mr. Manell.» True.
e 13 | Mr. Goldsmith. What coordination, if any, was there
: 14 between the tap operation and the photo-surveillance opera-
q
1s tion?
16 | Mr. Manell. I don't think I understand the question.
7 Mr. Goldsmith. Were the two operations tied in toge-

13] ther in any way?
19 Mr. Manell. They certainly were if they were oriented

20 || against the Soviet Embassy.

21 Mr. Goldsmith. More specifically, if something of
H
i |
e Ane 22 | interest came up on the transcript or tape and that person
ey i
ed | indicated he was going to be showing up at the embassy,
24 {

would the -practice'be for the tap operation people to contact |

q
i
i

i the photo-surveillance people?

! TOP SECRET 4

HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 17


~

22

3

24

HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 18

W

.would contact Goodpasture or Win Scott?

_ Materials that we directed activities of the photographic

16 |

Mr. Manell. If you are talking about people who

actually did that kind ‘of work. on thé ‘outside, .no,..that was

compartmented. +

Mr., Goldsmith. How’ would that ‘happen?

Mr. Manell. As far ‘as directing what those people on
the outside did, that was coordinated within the embassy
from ny section to Annie or to Win or to’ someone substitut-

ing for Annie.

Mr. Goldsmith. So the people from the tap operation.

Mr. Manell. Tt was not necessarily just the ‘tap opera-
tion because it =| a little bit-misleading. For example, I
was running several double-agent operations and would
know beforehand when a meeting. was.to take place between the |
Soviet intelligence officer ‘and my agent.

To confirm at least a small part of what my agent told

me, I would very often want to know when that Soviet

officer exited the embassy that particular time and

he returned. So it was not mérely from telephone tap

surveillance, for a number of other reasons. Or, for
example, I might be working on a Soviet, for any number of
reasons, I might find it interesting or think it

would be interesting to find out.when he returned to. the |

Soviet Embassy or whom he might contact in the Soviet # assy |

TOP SECRET ee



3

i
i

50955 DocId:32277220 Page 19

_ TOP SECRET

Mr. Goldsmith. In this case, how would you get that

17

information to the photo-surveillance people?

Mr. Manell. Probably through Ann Goodpasture. i

Mr. Goldsmith. rf the tap people eae getting back to
my original example -- wanted to ‘communicate information to
the photo. people?

Mr. Manell. There were no such things as tap people.

You mean the recipient of the telephone tap product,
for example, myself,’would ask Annie Goodpasture to -- well,
you see the question is, not actually entirely logical,
because normally photographic surveillance would be contin

ous. I don't remember at this point the days of the week

‘they might not have been conducted. Possibly the weekends; |

ag am not sure. Possibly one day over the’weekend. Certainly
it stopped after GHEE.

I am sorry, I have lost’ the trend of ‘your cuestion.

Mr. Pirie marinig I will’try to redirect you.

If you have a person working in the tap operation who
trahscribes tapes and he realizes, hey, this is something

important, and the substance of the conversation is someone

of interest is saying he is going to’ the Soviet Embassy.
‘Mr. Manell. . This’ person would be on theoutside, anyway

transcribing, and not in the station. If anything was of -an

emergency nature, the per'son was. instructed ‘to call for a

visit from an officer. The officer would get the message and

TOP SECRET 424

i
i



| TOP SECRET

1 come back to the station and discuss whatever that message

2 was with the responsible officer -- say, the responsible

3 officer for the ‘Cuban operation or the Soviet ‘operation or
@ 4 for the satellite operatién’+~" and then action would bé

5 taken, most likely in conjunction with the discussion with

6 Win Scott. ‘

? Mr. Goldsmith. There was a procedure for expediting
8 | matters? '

oy Mr. Manell. Indeed there was.

10 Mr. Goldsmith. Would the- person contacted by the

v Spanish transcriber be Ann Goodpasture?

12 Mr. Manell. It could be Ann Goodpasture; it could be
@ 13 | other people, such as Tom Keenan or Estan Cona.
; ns | Mr. Goldsmith. You mentioned the scope of the phot-
is surveillance coverage. Do you know whether the coverage was
16 constant during Bae hours, or was it coordinated with

v7 the working hours of the embassy compound?

18 Mr. Manelll, I can't remember. I would tend to believe
191 that it was constant. Possibly, however, they might have

20 taken off for lunch, but that should not have been the case.
ral Mr. Goldsmith. What was the purpose of the photo-"

“yr 22 | surveillance operation? By that, I mean what subjects were
they trying to take pictures of?

Mr. Manell. There are two different types of photo-

2

graph operations. One was to take photographs of non-

- TOP SECRET 2

HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 20



~ TOP SECRET

1 Soviets visiting the Soviet Embassy, and the other purpose

19 ,
was to take photographs of Soviets meeting with other
3 Soviets within the embassy compound so that we could; using
@ 4) that method and others also, attempt to identify whether
5 they were intelligence-connected.

6 Mr. Goldsmith. On the non-Soviet visiting the embassy

“

compound, was a picture taken of every one?

8 Mr. Manell. Yes.

{
9 Mr. Goldsmith. A picture would be taken of every
2, 10 subject entering! or leaving the compound?

n | Mr. Manell. I believe so.
12 | : I must qualify. it to.say that I was never in charge

6 13 of that activity. The only responsibility I had ‘for that

. 14] activity was when I had.a particular interest and requested
15: certain attention be paid-to that interest.

Mr. Goldsmith. -Keeping that qualification in mina,
7 is it fair.to say that. essentially pictures would. be taken
Wa of everyone’ and then later on the photographs that were

19 | ‘obtained would be reviewed in light of the purpose you have
20 | just stated? - _ a : me

21 Mr. Manell. Yes. : ie i

HE I would like to add one other statement to that.

1 Win Scott, our chief of station,-was the type of m. who

always wanted more, rather’than less, done in every respect. i

2
n

So, in connection with the question of whether there would be

coe | COP SECAET

Page 21


“40

u

20
21
22

® 2

24

HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 22 ‘i

: TOP SECRET 7 -

20 |;

et

constant activity in monitoring the-entrance and exit of

people in the Soviet -Embassy, enalways*wanted. more; rather”.
: eceies é *

than.less. - _ iz a i

Mr. Goldsmith. To your knowledge, was the photograph of
Lee Harvey Oswald ever obtained at either the Cuban Embassy
or ‘consulaté or. the Soviet Embassy compound?

Me. Manel. To the best of my recollection, I don't
believe a photograph was obtained.

i .

Mr.- Goldsmith. . After the assassination, was Win Scott
happy about the failure of the surveillance operation, the
photo-surveillance operation, to pick that up?

Mr. Manel. I haventt gotea pee recollection ‘of ‘it,
but I would’ assuine he must have been very unhappy about it.

I do know that we thought wé*had a picture of an American
who could have Been Lee Harvey Oswald. It turned out that
this man was not: Oswald.

Mr. Goldsmith. ‘When: did you think that this Beccon
may have been PeatEE

Mr. Manell. Probably on the day of the assassination,

when we reviewed. our product.

Mr. Goldsmith. According to the transcripts that we

have reviewed, it appears that Oswald made. at. least five
visits either to'the Cuban Embassy or consulaté ‘or to the
Soviet Embassy compound; a total of five visits.

Does it strike you as surprising that, in/light of five

TOP SECRET =


TOP SECRET

i 21
My visits having been made, he was not picked up?
a oer) : Mr. Manali. I can't verify, and I certainly can"t
3 agree that five visits were made.
@ 4 Hi Mr. Goldsmith. JI. sumimarized’ that essentially, because

5 I wanted to save time. If you went through each trans-
H ‘ q
6 ‘cript, it would* indicate that in fact, according --

Zee Mr. Manell. That is your analysis, not mine.

8 Mr. Goldsmith. When we get to the transcripts, we will
91 go into that with you... We will take that step by step at

10 that point.

ab | Mr. Maneli! I can make this statement. I remember

12 that on the day of the assassination, when we got information

13 from the radio’ that Lee Harvey Oswald had assassinated the

14) President, my recollection that day was ‘that Lee’ Harvey
1 2
Oswald was the man who had had contact with the Soviet

Embassy, had contact by phone. And I certainly didn't know

7 | he had visited the Soviet Embassy.

18 Mr. Goldsmith. Who at’ that station thought that the
19 | station hada picture of Oswald? ye

20 Mr. Manel. I can't ‘remember that exactly. I would
21 | assume it would:have béen ae Googpasture:

2 |

Mr. Goldsmith. When was information, obtained by the

Mexico City station reported. to headquarters? By that, I
: haa mean what type of information would be reported to head~
as ft

quarters and in what form?

“TOP SECRET 433

AW 50955 Docld:32277220 Page 23



TOP SECRET :

1 Mr. Manell. You are covering the waterfront there.

2 Mr. Goldsmith. I can narrow that down. I will be
3 pleased to. No problem.
@ 4 Mr. Manell. ‘Would you want to restrict that to the
\

5 question of Americans?

6 Mr. Goldsmith. Let me see if I can get it this way.

“

Would all information being sent to headquarters be
8 sent to headquarters by means of a cable?
9 Mr. Manell, No.

Mr. Goldsmith. What other forms?

3S

i Mr. Manell. By ‘@ispatch.

12 Mr. Goldsmith. ‘Dispatch and by cable would be the
e 13 | two essential forms?
id i Mr. Manell. Yes.
is Mr. Goldsmith. On what basis would you decide to send
16 that information’ to Hetaduartees by means of a cable, as

17 | opposed to dispatch?
i Mr. Manell. Once again, I think you are covering the
19 waterfront, because you are asking me to talk about all

20 | types of operatibns that the,station engage in. It would
21 be very often’a question of just what operations were’

22 | engaged in, whether it merited dispatch reporting“or” cable

| reporting.

“ Sometimes you would use one criteria and sometimes

ry

“another. - One section would use onét:criteriad and onetsection

TOP SECRET 2

HW 50955 DocIdi32277220 Page 24



22

Bi}

24

HW 50955 Doold:32277220 Page 25

TOP SECRET

would use another with respect to whether to use cable

23

traffic or dispatch. traffic. -

Mr. Goldsmith. Let us talk about’ the Soviet section.
Is it fair to say that routine information would be sent by
means of dispatch?

Mr. Manell. Not necessarily. It depended.on inter-
pretation. For example,.I would, at times, report by .cable
the results of.a meeting between a double-agent and a
Soviet agent, even though there was no priority interest. or
real necessity for immediate receipt of that information at
headquarters. Just a form that I preferred, because you
could do it in a sort of shorthana rather than do it with
long, descriptive reporting in the dispatch, Dispatch
required more writing, so Sonetimes preference would be for
cable reporting just for that reason alone.

Mr. Goldsmith. Were there any objective criterio that
governed whether a ‘cable would be cone or a aigeaten

Mr. Manell: ‘Indeed there would be. If there was

anything of emergency nature or anything of great signi-

ficance, you would report ‘it by cable. :
Mr. Goldsmith. That would be the general rule, but
are you saying that the mere fact that something was sent’ by

cable does not necessarily mean.that it was urgent?

Mr. Manell. Exactly. You are perfectly right.

Mr.. Goldsmith. Once a cable is received at headquarters

TOP SECRET | ase

'


ae
1. what is done with it?’ **

oy 2 Let me backstep. .Who receives the cable-at headquarters?
3 Mr. Manell. It depends on the ‘subject matter.

@ 4 Mr. Goldsmith. In your particular case, then?
5 Mr, Manell... Once again, it depends on the, subject

6 matter. In my case, with respect to the Soviet operation,
7 it would be recieved by the host.division. In this case, it
8 was called "WH" division, Western Hemisphere Division. |

9 Secondly, it would be received by the interested division in j

4 :

10 4 Soviet operations. - It would then have’been called, I guess
i :

an it, was called the SR division at that time, Soviet Division.

12 Additionally, depending on the material, it could be

13 received by other elements of the agency. For example,

| - .
14 |: counterintelligence staff would receive it.
yy. :
“1S Then I can't go further, but distribution was certainly
i
y i
16 | wider in-most cases.,

v Mr. Goldsmith. “Who would determine that the distribu-
18 tion would be wider? The sender or one.of the recipients or
19 | both?

20 Mr. Manell. It -was’ both, because the sender had certain!

: : a : : H
ieee 21 “-cyrptonyms at ‘tthe head of the cable. which would indicate |

ao not merely the: subject but the distribution.

i For example, one cyrptonym would necessarily indicate

that the CIA staff, the counterintelligence staff, received

2

A “7 Wl the material in addition to all other interested elements of -

JOP SECRET «5 we

NW 50955 DoclId:32277220 Page 26


“

HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 27

TOP SECRET

25

the Agency.

There are also restrictive cyrptonyms, such as if the
matter was occasionally sensitive, the sender could restrict
the distribution at headquarters. on the other hand, ‘as
far as how the headquarters ‘element distributed gupiea He
can't particularly speak for that.

Then-again, the cyrptonyms gave the. people who formu-
lated the distribution just how wide a distribution it would
have.

Mr. Goldsmith. Incidentally, has anyone from the
Inspector General staff ever interviewed you concerning Lee
Harvey Oswald's visit to Mexico City?

Mr. Manell. Never.

Mr. Goldsmith. Concerning the photo-surveillance
operation?: - .

Mr. Manell. Never.

Mr. Goldsmith. Any operation whatsoever in Mexico
city? cea tie a

Mr. Manell. No.

As a matter of fact,” I was perfectly surprised that I
was one of the last people ever interviewed about the
assassination because, after all, ny wifé and I were
oe sere for the first Peceeee sent eto ‘the station.

Everybody else was intereviewed before me. The Inspector ~

General, no.one in the Agency ever talked to me about this

TOP SECRET =



TOP SEC

26
1 operation.
a ea Mr. Goldsmith. The first time you were formally
3 interviewed about it was -~
@ 4 Mr. Manell. -- by you.
5 Mr. Goldsmith. Are you. familiar with the 1977
6 Inspector General's Report:which, among other things,
7 evaluated the surveillance operation and attempted to explain
8 the question that arose by virtue of the photograph being
9 connected in some way with Oswald, and it turned out the
10 photograph was not Oswald?
n| Mr. Manell. Not at all.
2 | Mr. Goldsmith. In order for information contained in
& 13 | the cable to go to one of the higher-ups, the head of a
i division, DDO, for example, how would it get to him? Could
1s the sender designate that?
4
16 i Mr. Manell. Yes.
v7 i Mr. Goldsmith. Otherwise, if the cable went to
18 Western Hemisphere, could that person say, "This sounds
19 important; let me send it on up"?
20 ME Manell. Yes.
21 Mr. Goldsmith. Would he do that directly or would he
22 | have to go through higher levels; go to his boss and then
3
: go to the next level?
2 | Mr. Manell. It could be either way. It depended on
i
‘ oa i who reviewed the cable and who made the decision. If an
i :

HW 50955 a Page 28 TOP SECRET , 998



AW. 50955

3

yy
a

i
il

TOP SECRET

27

analyst or desk officer reviewed the cable and wanted it

sent to DDO, he would certainly do it through channels;

through his branch chief, for example; possibly go

division chief'or chief of operations and make tha

to the

t sugdés-

tion and have it sent to DDO: or if that type of decision

started with the division chief, he would send it directly

to the DDO or someone in another division or recipient of”

the cable to make that decision.

Mr... Goldsmith. Would there be any objective

for deciding what goes up to the top, or would this
have been a subjective decision by the particular

involved?

criteria
short

individual

Mr. Manell. It would bea subjective decision.

Mr.'Goldsmith. Getting back to the tape, do

whether anyone in the Mexico City station ever did

comparison of tapes for the purpose of determinin
EU cont iiiedtice eee Oswald's voice?

Mr. Manell. No, I don't think that was ever
don't believe it could Ro vetcen done.’

Mr. Goldsmith.’ Why is that?

Mr. Manell. Tapes are normally erased after

you know
a voice

whether

a certain

number of days. So in the case of the Oswald transcript,

which was absolutely unimportant -- not absolutely, but

relatively unimportant -~- at the time of receipt, there was

no. reason to keep that tape or designate it for retention.

DocId:32277220 Page 29 TOP SECRET

O44



ua

re

rr

| pps
a 50955 DocId: 32277220 Page 30 a ue ce]

Lu

Mr. Goldsmith. Why would the tapes be erased?

‘Mr. Manéll. So that they could be used over again.

Mr. Goldsmith. So that if Oswald contacted the
embassy in late September or early october about the time of
the assassination, you are saying the tapes oat have been
erased eye

Mr. Manell. Indeed.

Mr. colasmnith. “I would like to refer your attention
to CIA No. 208. 208 refers to the page number of the. docu-
ment that the Agency provided Gas This is paragraph 4 of a
cable dated November 23, 1963. Could you read that paragraph
to yourself?

Mr. Manell. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith.- In that paragraph, it says that the
person who did the transcription indicates that Oswald is
identical with the individual who contacted the.embassy on
September (28th. bo you know on what basis the transcriber

was able to make that statement? :

Mr. Manell. Yés. The transcriber, the Russian language

transcriber, Mr. Tarasoff, was .a'very capable man, a man
very interested in his work.

I believe that he could recall with exactness that was
Oswald who called in previously, because Oswald's Russian was
faulty, and he would have remembered that.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know whether anyone went’ to x

-, §OLaue
g OoLee

Le ae ae
ie i
DEIR she



rs)

o>

x

fy a :
50955 DocId:32277220 Page 31 2 4 &

‘read that.

29
Mr. Tarasoff after the assassination and asked. him whether
it was Oswald on each tape?

Mr. Manell.: No, I.don't recall.

Mr. Goldsmith. Did you do it yourself?

Mr. Manell. I don't remember. And I did not write
this cable.

Mr. Goldsmith. TI understand. That cable was sent by
Goodpasture?

Mr. Manell. Yes, it was.

Mr. Goldsmith. Te us take a. look at these transcripts

now. ‘ :

I draw ‘your atténtion to CIA No. 13. Would you please

Mr. Manel: - ves.

Mr. Goldsmith. Could you describe what CIA No. 13 is?

Mr. Manell.. A man by the name ~- aman who identifies
himself as Lee Oswals and pee with a guard at the Soviet
embassy, saying that he was at the embassy last Saturday and

states that the embassy person had promised to send a tele-

gram to Washington.

Mr. Goldsmith. Now CIA No. 13 is a transcript ofa
conversation involving someone who identified himself as
Oswald?

Mr. Manell. Correct.

Mr. Goldsmith. It is dated October 31, 1963,

eae ORT URES

TAD
a

|
!
i
i
i
1
|
|
H
|
i
i
|
|
|
i
|
|
|
|
i

|


SOE A 7

i Mr. Manell. Yes, it is.

Mx. Goldsmith. - Do you know whether the name Oswald
3 | first came to your attention by virtue of this transcript?

Mr. Manell. I am not sure, put I guess it is the

ah

S| first time.

Mr. Goldsmith. Was this particular contact considered
to be unusual or routine?

Mr. Manell. Routine.

9

Mr. Goldsmith. Why is that? ,

Mr. Manell. During the sumer period, particularly, or

toward the end of the summer period, a relatively large
number of Americans, for various reasons, made contact with

is | the Soviet Embassy. This appeared to me, when I had the

information reported, to be just another case of an American ©

contacting the embassy, for no significant reasons.

Mr. Goldsmith. In each case’ that an.American contacted :

the embassy, would a cable be sent to Washington?

_Mr. Manell. Yes. indeed.

Mr. Goldsmith. In that case, there really should be

a cable in Washington for every American for whom at least

you were able to get a tentative identification?

Mr. Manell. Correct.

Mr. Goldsmith. If you weren't able to identify anyone, i

you would not bother to send a cable?

Mr: Manell. “Correct. That was a standard procedure

AP & Fos,
Ap Gre
howe se de GS

JNW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 32



oy

uy

a5

31

at the station.

Mr. Goldsmith. Even though this was considered
routine, the information would be cabled up?

Mr. Manell. Exactly.

i
|
i
|

Mr. Goldsmith. Why would it not be dispatched up?

Mr. Manell. Because it involved: an American person.

Mr..Goldsmith. Are you. saying then that it was a

standard procedure for dealing with Americans, and part of

that procedure involved sending a cable?
Mr. Manell. Indeed.

What: was: your response, if any, after

Mr. ‘Goldsmith

seeing this transcript?

tion; what is the question?
Mr. Goldsmith. What“dctioh did you.take in”response --
Mr. Manell. The only action I took was the action my

wife took, was to send a cable to Washington summarizing the

information: that we had on Oswald and his contact with» the

ij) embassy.

In-addition, and it was’ also our practice, we sent

| memoranda to interested elements of ;the embassy. We also
|

| asked our headquarters: for trace of an American. That was

| general procedure.

Mr. Goldsmith. By trace, you mean a‘name trace?

ii Mr. Manell. A name trace.’

ry
|

ui

Mr. Manell. My response, or my reaction or my recollec~.



HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 34

| id 32
i . ;
1 ; Mr..Goldsmith. I would like you to look at CIA 177°
2 i and tell me whether that was a cable that was sent to
| :
3 Washington. Was that cable sent to Washington, D. C.?
4 Mr. Manell. The first cable?
5 : Mr. Goldsmith. Yes. In response to the transcript that
é i appears in CIA"No. 13. a nit
7 \ Mr. Manell. I am not sure who ‘wrote this cable.

8 \ My wife wrote this cable. Yes, that is the first cable.
9 Mr. Goldsmith. That is the cable that would have -been
10 i sent in response --
|
au i Mr. Manell. I must be wrong, because it says here
12 | there was no local dissemination of the information.
3 Mr. Goldsmith. I don't know if you are wrong or if .
it i you are just-.confused based on documents you have reviewed.
1s | We. will go into that later: on,
6 t In fact, I think there was dissemination, and you will
"7 | have a chance to clarify that.
1a ' mr. Manel.” I’am'not sure there was dissemination.
ieee 19 | The last ‘paragraph of this” japers says no local diss8etiination.
Mr. Goldsmith.” We will go ‘into that.
i

The second paragraph of that cable makes reference to
: hear ae F ;

hat photograph. “Was that a photograph of Oswald? Reonocanibnartn

{
4
i

Mr. Manell. We don't know.
Mr. Goldsmith. Have you ever seen that photograph?

Mr. Manell. Yes. The photograph was not of Oswald.

FCC



TOP SECRET

1 The assumption was made, here that it could have been Oswald

33

mo 2 because’a male who appeared .to be an. American .entered the

3) embassy on that date, but there is a correction above the :
© 4 date 1 October to read :2 October. so that is confusing to
5 me at’ this time. :

6q- Mr. Goldsmith. -But that correction could have been

7 || put in at some later time.

8 ‘Mr. Manell. . It could-have been.

9 : Mr. Goldsmith. In other words, the cable, as it went
out, reported a contact on:1 October)?

ry

i ‘Mr. Manell. That ‘is right.

12 ‘Mr. Goldsmith. Are you saying that the second paragraph
& ea 6) | makes an assumption: that the pohotograph was of Oswald?
: is] Mr. Manell. It makes He assumption, only an assimption.
1s ' Mr. Goldsmith. For purposes of clarification, was that
i in fact a. photograph of Oswald?
: i7 Mr. Manell. No, it wasn't.
18 Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know how that particular photo-

19 | graph was selected?
20 _ Mr. Manell. I don't recall: exactly, but I would assume
21 it was selected because it was obtained the very same day

: 22! that Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy.

3 Mr. Goldsmith. who made the selection of the photo-
24 graph? fares .

: 25 fi os

/ ce

Mr, Manell. I can't recall whether it was my wife or

HW 50955 Docld:32277220 Page 35



AW 50955

22

33

24

w
ir

DocId:32277220 Page 36

i

!
i
i

TOP SECRET:

it would have been Annie Goodpasture.

34

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know whether Miss Goodpasture
checked the Cuban photo production materials?

Mr. Manell.- I have no idea.

Mr. Goldsmith. Refer to CIA No. 13. The person who.
identified himself as Oswald said: "I was at your place

last Saturday" -- which would. not have been October Ist; it

would have been September 28th. Yet the cable reports a
photograph taken of someone October Ist.

Mr. Manell. Correct.

Mr. Goldsmith. Is there any way that can be explained,
or is that just an extension of the assumption?

Mr. Manell. Just a extension of the assumption. It
is not knowledge that the photo of a male entering on the Ist
of October is identical with. the person who phoned the Soviet

Embassy and said he was Oswald.

Mr. Goldsmith. ° Tf the contact: by*Oswald occurred on

October Ist, why did it take one, week to.get! the cable out?

Mr. Manell. I can't recall exactly, but it probably

took.some time for the people’ who “got the information to have
it transcribed from the tape.

Secondly, since there was a Russian language portion

to that tape, this would have’ to have been collected and sent H

out to our transcriber. That, again, may have delayed the

receipt of the information at the embassy.

901088

TOP SECRET :


TOP SECRET

35,
1 Mr. Goldsmith. I am not sure I follow the difference
2 between the second part of the explanation and the first.
3 Mr. Manell. Well, there were these steps in getting
& 4 the product to the station. Number one, the material is
5 taped.
6 Mr. Goldsmith. Okay.

Mr: Manell. Those people who handle the tape do not

“

8 transcribe. It is sent to the transcriber for transcription
1

9 of the Spanish portion. Indication is made on that Spanish

portion that there is a foreign language. Assuming that they

3

iW believe it is Russian, the material would then be collected
12 by a station person who, in turn, would send it out to our
e : 13 Russian language transcriber.
Finally, the reason for the delay of perhaps a day or

perhaps two days in sending it to headquarters may be this.

a

16 The information, when received by us at the station, was not
7 significant information or important information. There woul
aK) therefore, be no need to work on it ahead of other cases and

19 | materials of greater importance.

20 Mr. Goldsmith. Do you recall ever discussing sending

21 | this cable out with Dave Phillips? je
fate 22 | Mr. Manell. No. He has no connection, no direct

a

connection with my operation.
I would like to emphasize for the sake of clarity once

1 again that while cable traffic may be considered the method

i 901687 |
BW 50955 ssetaranervave Page 37 TOP SECRET ;


TOP SECRET

1 |. for sending significant informationto headquarters,:it ;
a 2 is. not necessarily so. i

3 Further, that in this specific case, ‘a cable was used
e 4 to send. thi's information to headquarters only because it

5 concerned an American, not because it concerned a matter that
6 was considered to be of importance. °

7 Mr. Goldsmith. Could this procedure regarding Americans
8 contacting the Soviet Embassy be, in effect, not just at the
9 | Mexico City station, but virtually every CIA station. where

there was a Soviet Embassy?

3

YW Mr. Manell. I can't.speak to that. That was the

12 procedure at Mexico City.

e 13 i Mr. Goldsmith. What about other stations that you

‘ 14 | worked at?
15 Mr. Manell. Well, I would personally send the informa-
16 tion to headquarters by Sane of an American contacting the

7 || Soviet Embassy, yes, for a number of redsons. But to say

co

that this was standard CIA practice worldwide is something I
19! can't speak to.

20 Mr.. Goldsmith. . When the photograph referred to in

21 | paragraph 2 was selected, do — recall whether Goodpasture
22 | ever said "I think this is Oswald"?

Sop i Mr. Manell. I can't recall that.

Mr. Goldsmith. Is it likely that what would have been
i

done is simply. to have reviewed the photo production materials}
i
i

TOP SECRET
HW-50955° Doold:32277220 Page 38

ogieoe.


TOP SECRET

37 4
ea | for the purpose of taking out every pon-batin person and
a 2 then of- those who oe not Lahaaaina who could not be identi-
3 fied, it turns out this is the only ‘one who could not be
@ eal identified ana therefore, this must Be ‘Oswald? ‘
5 Mr.-Manell. Well, that is an involved question, but rT

6 can say that it is rather simple to distinguish between. an

7? American,.a normal-appearing American, and a Mexican. “So

i let us talk about what was taken out! of the, batch because

9'| of that indication that it was an American on that particular
10 | Friday, I will go ihemanna and say that the people we

-11 |. employed to photograph persons entering the Soviet Embassy

12 Believed they could spot .an American easily, and they made

: 3 | it-a practice to certainly photograph that person and. bring it
c) ih

i { to our attention. One of our responsibilities was to assist
1S the FBI in “identifying people who might. become Soviet
16 Le particularly in America.
7 Mr. Goldsmith. Could you now review CIA Nos. 14 and 15.
18 Soe Manell. Yes. i
19 Mr. Goldsmith. .Is that a transcript of a conversa-

20 | tion that took place on September 28, 1963?

21 Mr. Manell. Yes,

57 22 | Mr. Goldsmith. It involves a party speaking from the

. Cuban. Embassy to. thé Soviet-Embassy;: is that correct?

@
:
a

‘Mr. Manell.- That is correct.

2
ry

Mr. Goldsmith. ‘I notice theré!is’ some routing indication

| TOP | SECRET ooreog:

NW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 39


24

w
Oo

TOP SECRET :

on this.’ Does your name appear Driers on this?

Mr. Manell. My name is not on there. However, I
should have seen this. My wife -- I probably saw it becauge
the handwriting giving the routing indication is that of my
wife.

Mr. Goldsmith. Did your wife give you all transcripts
to review or did she’ select only those that she thought were
most important? :

Mr. Manell. . It depended on how busy I was.

Mr. Goldsmith. When, if Fey the man speaking in
this particular conversation identified as Oswald?

Mr. Manell. Probably after receipt of the l October
transcript, CI No. 13.

Mr. Goldsmith. Why do you say that?

Mr. Maneil, He is, not identified here, is he?

Mr.. Goldsmith. No, he is not? Do you have any reason

to believe that he was linked after receipt of the’ 1 October

transcript? a
Mr. Manell. ist is what eee because when the
cable oe sent to headquarters, it referred only to the
October Ist transcript. There is no linking in that cable to
this transcript of the 28th of September.
Mx. Goldsmith. The cable of october 8th made no

mention of any contact with the Cuban Embassy.

Mr. Manell.. ‘That is correct.

4048

COE ECR



TOP SECRET

390
1 i Mr. Goldsmith. Reading that transcript, is it clear to
ae 2 you that Oswald made three visits on September 28th to the
3 various embassies? He is calling now from the Cuban and
@ 4 he indicates that he had been at the Russian earlier, and he

5 is going back to the Russian; therefore, a total of threé

6 visits.

“

Mr. Manell. Well, there are two visits and the assump+
8 tion that he will go back to the Soviet Embassy. It is |

9 | merely an assumption.

3

Mr. Goldsmith. In any event, by the time the October 8
11} cable went out, this had been linked to Oswald?

12 Mr. Manell. By the transcriber.

& 13 Mr. Goldsmith. By the transcriber.

What about you and your wife?

a

Mr. Manell. I can't recall that.
16 Mr. Goldsmith. Do you recall when the earliest time
7 | was that you did make this link?
i

1a | Mr. Manell. No, I can't. Once again, let me tell you, |

19 to clarify that point, the cable that went out on the 8th

20 reported relatively insignificant information. I would not

2 necessarily have made the effort to do all the research |

a 22 | necessary to determine whether this man had made a connec- |

e te | tion with other embassies. And I may not have paid much

24

attention to the cable that went out on the 8th of October.

i
i
i

Mr. Goldsmith. However, the transcript of October lst

TOP SECRET

HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 41

i
i}
i

On1OLL


22

3

24

HW.50955 DocId:32277220 Page 42

i]

TOP SECRET ag

does say the. same man who called a day or so ago?

Mr. Manell. Yes, it doés. and if these things were
reviewed in chronological order, it is possible that at that
time, the connection was made.

Mr. Goldsmith. Please review CIA Nos. 17-and_18 on
the translation.

Mr. Manell. Right.

Mr. goldsmith. ‘When you are finished with that, will
you turn the page and read the transcript relating to that
conversation of the same day, CIA .No. 20, for the record.

Mr. Manell. Right.

Mr. Goldsmith. Now the two transcripts you have just
read are dated September o7, 1963; one’ ene eps was

4:00 to 5:00 p.m.; the other’ ohe I. think was 4:26 p.m. in

the afternoon; is that correct?
Mr: Manell. ‘Correct.
Mr. Goldsmith. From the conversations contained in
those transcripts, is it clear that the man involved is ae
the Cuban Embassy and he had been at the Soviet Embassy

earlier?

Mr. Manell. Correct.

Mr. Goldsmith. Before we go on, we know that, accord-
ing to the transcript, “if:Oswald had ' been to the Embassy a
total of four times and if, in fact, “he did.return to the

Soviet Embassy; as he said he would .in-the September 28th

TOP SECRET



TOP SECRET

“42 5
1 } conversation, he would have been there, a total of five
mo 2 times. Is that a correct statement?
oe} Mr. Manell. Correct.
é : 4 fa Mr. Goldsmith. When were these two transcripts from
§ | September 27th first linked to Oswald?
6 “Mr. Manell. I can't recall. I find this rather con-

? fusing because my recollection of the ‘interview with you at :
8 my headquarters, I didn't remember these at all.

9 Mr. Goldsmith. You are saying you saw these at’ your H
10 headquarters; to your eee this is the first time you

n saw this particular --

12 Mr. Manell. Iv-can't say. I-'am.surprised by this.
r 13 | The only thing I recollected before I looked at the files
; 144 and before my interview with you was only the 1 October
15 | transcript. So all of this, I don't say I didn't see these
16 |

before. ..IJdozrecall, however, at some: point -- and this. is
17 | probably after the assassination that perhaps it came to my
18 |) attention or perhaps before -- my memory is not clear on ;

19 |.this. But getting to the reason why. the cable of October’ 8th

20 | was sent. the way it was was because my wife undoubtedly only

211 had that information of the Ist available to her. H

22 | Mr: Goldsmith.’ Or if she had the earlier transcript

73:1 available, she did not make, the connection?

24 Mr. Manell. Correct.

D
i

Mr, Goldsmith. Let us look at CIA 183..

ON4O4S |

x i

eee ie


TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Manell. Once again, I don't necessarily want to

42

on : 2 repeat myself, but having sent the cable of the 8th of
3.) October to headquarters, that in a case such as this one
Po 4 satisfied our requirement; meaning that we have identified.
5 | the contact of an American: with the Soviet Embassy. We have
6 | made ita matter of record and have no indication that the
7 || matter is of importance; therefore, it wouldn't necessarily,

8 prompt us, with all the other important things we were doing
1
9 at this time, to devote additional effort to be complete
about that relatively unimportant matter.

WW Mr. Goldsmith. Would you look now at CIA 183. I

12 | believe that is a cable dated 11 October 1963 from CIA

13 | headquarters to Mexico City station.

® a
is | Why don't you skim that briéfly for content and if I
1S have a specific question on the substance, I will draw your
16 attention to it. ee
vi Mr: Manell. All right.
1a] Mr. Goldsmith. Was this the cable that headquarters

19--sent in response to the request for a name trace on Oswald?
20 Mr. Manell. Yes.

aq’ Mr. Goldsmith. I notice that paragraph 1 refers to

22 | Oswald as probably identical with Lee Henry Oswald; is that

: 1
mS 73.1 correct? H
24 Mr.’ Manell. Yes.
| !
wa a5 H Mr. Goldsmith. There is’an arrow poingint to the word

QOL |

a TOP SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32277220 Page 44


TOP SECRET

1 “Henry* and next to the arrow appears the word "sic" which

43

ae 2 is underlined.
3 ‘Mr.’ Manell. Correct.
@ 4 Mr. Goldsmith. I believe it is Mr. Scott's handwrit-
5 ing?
6 Mr. Manell. Correct.
7 Mr. Goldsmith. Were these marginal notations made at

8 the time that the cable would be received?
9 Mr. Manell. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. By writing the word "sic", was Mr.

rn] Scott indicating that he was aware that Oswald's middle name

12: was not Henry?

@ i3 Mr. Manell. Not necessarily.

14 { Mr. Goldsmith. What explanation would you have? i
1S Mr. Manell. I don't really know. The only information
16 we had was the first and last name._
7 | Mr. Goldsmith. Did Scott ever give you an indication

18} that he knew what Oswald's middle name was?

19 Mr. Manell. Absolutely not.

20 Mr. Goldsmith. I believe that paragraph 2 of this

21] cable describes Oswald as a former Russian defector; is’ that

22:1 correct?

BY Mr. Manell. Defector to the Russians, correct. \
24 | Mr. Goldsmith. In light of having received informa- |
as

tion about Oswald having defected to the Russians, did that,

TOP SECRET >

HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 45

AS


TOP SECRET

44
1 in any way, enhance the significarice of his. visit ‘to the
2 Soviet Embassy?
3 Mr. Manell. Yes,
@ 4 Mr. Goldsmith. Did that occasion any further response
5 by. the Mexico’City station regarding Oswald?
6 Mr. Manell. At the moment, I can't recall. What we did|.

~

do was pass this information from headquarters to various

8. || elements of the American Embassy. .

9 . Mr. Goldsmith. At that’ point, woule it have been

10 necessary to have gone back to check the transcript? For

v | example, the October: 1st contact involving Oswald at the:

12 Russian Embassy, the telephone call; the transcriber wrote

Fs 13 || in brackets "The. same man who'called the other day." At

that time, would either you or your wife or someone else that

1S you know of have gone back to’ check the: transcripts to see

if, in fact, the same person had been found on the tape

17 earlier?

a Me een el leer Thinking about it-at ‘the
19 | moment, if, for example, I only felt there was one trans-

. 20 || cript, there wouldn't be any incentive to go back and see

21 || whether there were others.

221 - Mr. Goldsmith. _ But the 1 October transcript did say he

Be
°3 | had called a day or so earlier?

24 i Mr. Manell.. That is'right. JI can't recall what I did
as :
re e- | at that time,

&
&
=
at

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 Docld:32277220 Page 46



45

TOP SECRET —

1 Mr. Goldsmith. From the state of the record as it was

October llth, headquarters had not been apprised of the
“3-1 contact at the Cuban Embassy?

@. ae Mr. Manell. Correct.

3. Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know whether they were ever

6 || apprised of that contact?

Mr. Manell. Afterwards, yes.

8 Mr. Goldsmith. Prior to the assassination? °-
9 Mr. Manell. I don't believe so, but I wouldn't know. ° i
10

I am not sure of whether. they were apprised of it or not.

li | My belief is that they were, not until after the assassination.

aP3 Mr. Goldsmith. If they had been, there would be a
@ 13 ! cable to that effect, would. there not? :
| Mr. Manell. Surely. There would. have been.a cable
1s yang not ‘a dispatch.
a] Mr. Goldsmith. Let us take a look at CIA 182. That
Wiis a ‘routing slip that went with the cable ftom headquarters,
18 October llth cable from headquarters, and I eae el
91 scott's handwriting there indicates "Please set See ee
20 file"; is that correct? “* + i oo a
a) Mr. Manell. correct. a |
7 22 i we. coldewith.. the > dite isa local personality File? |
- Mr. Manell. Correct. . +, wk
24 Mr. Goldsmith. bo you know when Oswald's P file was {
4 ee i set up?

“g01et7

| TOP SECRET |

y
oy
4

HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 47


TOP SECRET —

46 3
1 ; Mr. Manell. Probably on that date. Now it is interest-
oy 2 ing to indicate, by the way, that Mr scott indicated the
“4 P file should be set up in the name of.Lee Henry Oswald, °
@ ‘ 4 {| even though he had written."sic" to the identification of
5 | the man by headquarters as Lee Henry Oswald. He had no
6 | argument with the identification, evidently.
7 Mr. Goldsmith. Noted. Thank you.
- 8 _  Réferring now to CIA No: 19, which is one of the
9 | transcripts from September 27th, at the bottom it says ‘
10 "Copy, Oswald 'P' file."
uv Mr. Manell. Yes.
2 Mr. Goldsmith. When would this have gone into his
13 | P £ile? 4 ian ae e :
fi : .
® ia y Mr. Manell. . Where does -it say that?
is| Mr. Goldsmith. Here. *_ i
16 Mr. Manell. This is’ my handwriting. It could have
17 | been ~- I don't nel exactly when. this is my handwriting,
13 however.
9 Mr. Goldsmith. Would it have been before the assassina~
20 || tion?
2 Mr. Manell. More than likély: «
; 22 Mr. Goldsmith. It would seem that before the assassina-
33 | tion, Oswald’s contact with the Cuban Embassy on September, 27¢
24 | had been noted.
Q 25 i Mr. Manell. Yes. . ae
i GOL GLE
i

TOP SECRET

HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 48


47

i TOP SECRET

1 | Mr. Goldsmith. Will you look at CIA No. 185. That
mo 2 cable requested headquarters to send a photograph of

3 Oswald. To your knowledge, was one ever received?

@ 4 , Mr. Manell. No, I don't believe a photograph was

5 ever received of Oswald.

6 Who wrote this cable? I am curious.
7, I wrote that cable.
8 Mr. Goldsmith. ‘You do not recall receiving a photo-

9 graph of Oswald?

Mr. Manell. No.

ry

YW Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know whether, after the assas-

12 sination, Charlotte Bustof found a photograph of Oswald?

r) 13 ! Mr. Manell. I have no idea.
is | Mr. Goldsmith. Getting back for.a moment to’ CIA“183,
1S paragraph 4 indicates that information concerning Oswald
16 be disseminated to other feceral agencies, does it not?
2d7 | Mr. Manell. No, to other elements of the embassy. -
1a Mr. Goldsmith. I am sorry, you are correct.
19 Why would they make that indication? Was that routine

20 procedure?
2 Mr. Manell. It was routine procedure to send it ‘to

ae 22:1 the FBI other than the embassy, but in this case it would

73.1 help me out with the cryptonym, who was T. P. Elide.
24 Mr. Goldsmith. That was the embassy.
es ~ aS HT Mr. Manell. Odyoke’was what?

ae TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 49



22

24

HW 50955 Docld:32277220 Page 50

a!

i

TOP SECRET |

Mr. Goldsmith. I&S.. I can tell you which ones were --

age,
\

Mr. Manell. 0O.D. Urge?

Mr: Goldsmith. I think I know. how we can solve this.
Let us look at No. 187. No. 187 is the memo that was sent
by Mexico City station to the Ambassador. At the bottom of
the page it lists the various agencies, who received it
locally.

Mr. Manell. Poe Okay.

Mr. Goldsmith. - Was that an unusually wide ‘dissemina-
tion? :

Mr. Manell. The only question I have would be that of
why I&S got. it? Otherwise, Naval Attache, because this
was a former Marine. There is that connection there, the
legal attache, because thé legal“attache is the normal’
recipient of this kind of information. ,

Sometimes we did it to the embassy, depending on the
case... So it boils down to my question as to why IsS got a
copy of this:or why headquarters asked .us to ‘send them a
copy. hat is my only query about this.

Mr. Goldsmith. When was the cable received; the 11th?

Mr. Manell. Was that a ‘weekend that followed? ~*~ {

Mr. Goldsmith. The lst of October was a ruesday,

Mr. Manell. I am talking about the 11th and the 16th.

Mr. Hardway. That would have been a Friday. :

Mr. Manell. There again, you see it did not become

091626,

TOP SECRET


TOP SECRET =

1 something of great significance that we would have imme-°

~
ey

2 diately felt we had to do it fast.

ee Mr. Goldsmith. Turning to Cia No. 181, which is the
= . 4 headquarters copy of-a cable that was sent, it indicates
5 that Thomas Karamessines was the releasing. officer.
6 Mr. Manell. Yes.
iz: Mr. Goldsmith, Was it unusual for someone as high up
8 in the organization as Karamessines .to be the reléasing
9 officer for a cable of this kind?

+

Mr. Manell. Yes, except that there might have been

some reason. that could easily explain be. For example, ‘while

12 the information is not necessarily significant, yet there. was

e : 13 \ another significant piece of information that people at the
14 | desk might have wanted the DDO to see.: It could be as. simple
1S an explanation as that.-
16 Mr. coldsmith. pia you. know, .receiving a cable at
| .

17'| Mexico-City, who the releasing officer was?
18 Mr. Manell. Not at-all. We don't have any’ indication

19 | at Mexico City who .writes the éal les or who releases cables.

20 || Who wrote this. cable? . :

2 Mr. Goldsmith. Charlotte Bustof.
40 22-1 Mr. Manell. It‘was normal for @ person who was an
~ ert int ae rs
3 |

analyst or a desk officer; as she was for the Mexico City

24

branch, to prepare a terse reply. It was certainly normal,

2
a

I would think, to have elements of the, counterintelligence

eed TOP SECRET  O0LeeL |

HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 51



TOP SECRET

1 staff coordinate the cable. It was normal, certainly, for

50:
\

2 a member of the counterintelligence section of the Soviet

3] division to coordinaté a cable.

@ 4 Mr. Goldsmith. "One question about paragraph eiauued

5 ‘Believe it requests that any further contact for purposes of

6 identification should be indicated to headquarters.

a

Mr. Manell.. Right.
8 Mr. Goldsmith. In light of that, does .that help. you.

9 in’ any way as to whether anything was ever communicated to

10 headquarters?

ieee _ Mr. Manell. No.

12 bet us go: further to addréss oursélves to the question
e 13 | about Mr. Karamessines and “why, he released the cable. I

if | can't really explain that. ee
1S} sent ue as a routine cable.!

16 | Mr. Goldsmith. How do you know that?

7 Mr. Manell. Because otherwise, you would have seen the
. 18 peecedence! of either priority or immediate. Certainly you

19 | don't see any restrictive indicators’on the handling of ‘this /

20 | cable. It doesn't even indicate ‘that it is a counter-

intelligence matter in the heading, and it doesn't give the

22 | restrictive indicator of an important: counterintelligence

- i . i
3 | case, such as Rybat, or that cryptonym is a restrictive

ee : indicator for any type ‘of, cable, if you need to restrict the [|
as fi

| information, and ‘that is not. on here, either.

TOF SECRET odieze |

HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 52


2

3

24

HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 53 TOP SECRET

il

i
\
i

TOP SECRET

The. reason I am going into this at length is apparently

51

you find it extraordinary that Mr. Karamessines signed off
on this cable. I can't explain it, but I want to go further
to say that the preparation and transmission of this cable
indicates that there was no urgency or,undue significance
attached to the information.

Mr. Goldsmith. At.any time that you are looking at
these documents, feel free, as I see you do feel free, to
give us any clarifying information.

Again, for purposes of clarification, prior to the
assassination was any action taken by the Mexico City station
in reference to the Oswald matter other than sending the cable
to headquarters on October 8th and the dissemination that
was instructed? :

Mr. Manell. Nothing, to my knowledge.

Mr. Goldsmith. Getting back for a moment to the
matter of the photograph, if Oswald, in fact, had gone to the
embassy a total of five times ~- for purposes of argument: --
and making the assumption he did go back when he said he was
going back, does it strike you: as unusual for the photo
people to have missed him five times?

Mr. Manell. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you have any explanation for that?
Ir realize the photo operation was not under your control in

any way, but do you have any possible explanation?

Ov1H2e



TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Manell. Yes; I do. The Mexicans who manned the

52

photo facility and did it day after day, year after year,
3 | could conceivably not be performing their work as they were
r ] 4 required ‘to perform it. fo me, that is the most straight-

forward explanation for the fact that we didn't receive a

-.6 ]) photo of Oswald’ entering the Soviet Embassy.

/ Mr. Goldsmith. Do ‘you know if. any of ‘them were dis-

8 | missed as a result of the failure to obtain a picture?
9 Mr. Manell. No, I have no knowledge of that.
10

Mr." Goldsmith, . Please refer to CIA No. 188. This is

a cable dated November 22nd. The third paragraph. indicates,

12 | among other things, “Férwarding soonest copies of only visitor

@ 13 | to Soviet Embassy 20 October who could be identical. to
14 Oswald."
is ' Do you know whether. the date 20 October is correct or
i
16 incorrect?
Ww i Mr. Manell. Probably a mistake. I think I wrote this
\
18 | cable. I am not sure.
9 There isa correction’ on the following, right here.
2 It wrote this cable. Obviously it was a mistake on my part,
a trying to get this information out as fast as I could.
3° 22) I did, as you see, put in an. immediate precedence on
3 | che transmission of this cable. As I said before, I Linked.
. fe the name Oswald that we heard over the ‘radio with the Oswald
mee ee : 7 i who had contacted the Soviet Embassy; and therefore, I sent
:
i :
|
\

1924
HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 54 TOP SECRET 88



TOP SECRET =,

1 this cable out as fast as I could on the 22nd of November.
ran zy Mr. Goldsmith. On the 22nd of November, . you. read that
3 ore Oswald eokescl ac ia : ,
& oko _ Mr..Manell. Yes, I did.

‘5 Mr. Goldsmith, Mr. Manell, CIA No. 183, the headquarter
6 cable, contains a description of Oswald in. paragraph Le

7 Mr. Manell. . Yes. i

By: Mr. Goldsmith. After receiving this cable, were you

9 aware that the photograph to which reference had been made

10 in the cable of October 8th. was not a photograph of Oswald?
WV ie Mr. Manell. I can't recollect what I believed at that
n time. ieee

& Baeee F<) ! Mr. Goldsmith. As of the day of: the assassination,

id} you thought that there was still a possibility that there |
was a photograph of Oswald?
a Mr. Manell. Indeed. As I recall, we tried to get that

17 || ‘photograph ‘to headauarterg as fast:as we could. As it. turned

18 | out, it wasn't necessary’ to send it.’ But that: was our

19°] intention. aes

20} Mr. Goldsmith. Let us look at CIA No. 184. ‘This
21. | was a cable from headquartets dated November 23rd. The°first

paragraph instructs you to review tapes and transcripts

since the .27th of September.

‘Mr. Manell. Correct.

2
a

Mr. Goldsmith... Does that: indicate that headquarters

TOP SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 55


24

ag

50955 Docld:32277220 Page 56

TOP SECRET

was-in some way aware of Oswald's contact with the embassy

54

on September 27th?

Mr. Manell. It certainly does.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know. how they would have been
made aware of that?

the reason'I ask is because we have reviewed cable
traffic and have not seen any cable traffic informing them
of that content.

Mr. Manell. No. There is something I’can't explain,
and I.am trying somehow to. get an explanation for it in my

mind.

As I, told you. before; normally the’ station did not
forward raw See! to headquarters. _ That would have
been one way for them-to know the a7th of September contact.

You say there is no other traffic?

Mr. Goldsmith. Based on our réeview of the ‘file.

Mr. Manell. Or visit or contact by Oswald earlier
than the lst of October.to the Soviet Embassy? This
leaves me certainly at-a loss for an explanation.

Mr. Goldsmith. Is it possible that that would have
been done telephonically?

Mr. Manell. Not likely.

Mr. ‘Goldsmith. Why not?

“Mr. Manell. You don't telephone classified informa-

tion to headquarters, normally.

TOP SECRET



TOP SECRET

55,
|
1 Mr. Goldsmith. Is ‘it possible ~- and I do not want to
ia 2 put words in your mouth -- that héadquarters knew about
3 the contact of September 28th and that they instructed
é 4 you to refer to the conversation, the contact of the 27th,
5 just for purposes of extra insurance?
6 Mr. Manell. I can't comment.on that.
7 Mr. Goldsmith. Please refer to CIA No. 197,:speci-
8 fically paragraph 3. |
9 Mr. Manell. Wht date is this cable; the 23rd of
10 November?
nv Mr. Goldsmith. It isa cable dated November 23, 1963.
12 Address your attention to paragraph No, 3.
@ 13 ! Let me ask you whether this cable corrects the date
14 i that you had incorrectly reported in the earlier cable.
1S Mr. Manell. Yes, it does, to 1 October.
16 Who wrote this cable?
7 Mr. Goldsmith. I believe the author of this cable
18 was Ann Goodpasture; is that correct?
19 Mr. Manell. That is correct.
20 Mr. Goldsmith. Please read the second paragraph of
21 | CIA No. 198, which is the Mexico City copy of that cable. |
a 22 | Mr. Manell. Yes.
a 3 Mr. Goldsmith. The language in that paragraph indicates
24 | that the station could not compare the voice of Oswald Bes:
‘ D a5 i the first tape of his voice or his conversation had been
{ i
f
4

TOP SECRET ae

HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 57


14

1S

16

22

agi

24

TOP SECRET

erased prior to the receipt a the oe beonEScr |

Mr. Manell.. Correct.

Mr. Goldsmith. The way that is phrased suggests,
however, that at that.time, November 23rd, ete was still
one tape in existence. In other words, it does not say all
tapes reporting Oswald contacts had been erased. It: says one
tape was erased prior to the receipt of, the next one.

Mr. Manell. a would not give that importance or make
the assumption you are ‘making. te is not completely phrased
in the cable. It merely says station unable compare voice
as first tape erased prior receipt second call." That is’.
all it says.

I don't see how you can ‘conclude ‘the way you conclude.

i Goldsmith. Please don't misunderstand aot T am
not intending to offer any conclusions.

Mr. Manell. No, but you are indicating that a second
tape was’ kept and not erased.

Mr. Goldsmith. What I want to do is ask whether the
language there suggests that in fact that was the case.

Mr. Manhell. I am saying it was not the case; probably
not the case. :

Mr: Goldsmith. I would like you ko understand,

Mr. Manell, that we are conducting a thorough review of

the files and the’ cable traffic and we are obliged to address

every question that arises based on that review.

50955 a Page 58 TOP SECRET . oot 028



TOP SECRET

1 : Mr. Manell. I am sorry, but IT felt you were drawing a

Ly eee

- ~ 2 conclusion.
3 , Mr. Goldsmith. I eae ee a your position. I just
@ 4 wanted you to understand mine, that Pe all.
Sy ‘Mr. Manell. Right.
6 I wonder if I might make a short statement at this time,

“

Mr. Goldsmith. Certainly.

8 Mr. Manell. From the questioning by you, I am led to
9 believe that you may have the suspicion, certainly the con-
10 cern, that there was a separate communication sent to the
aah] | station by headquarters about Oswald of which you have no

12 || record.
i

e@ 3] To the very, very best of my knowledge, there was no
is | separate. communication sent to the station with regard to
1s Oswald.. Certainly if there was a separate communication, I
16 never had any knowledge of it. > ey ane H
v7 Mr. Goldsmith. Fine.
8 What about the-reverse of that; separate communication

19 | from the México City station to headquarters?
20 Mr. Manell: Firstly,:I doubt ‘that there was, because

21 || in some fashion I would have become privy to it. “Second,

nil once again, I certainly know of no separate communication not

33 | appearing in the record here that was sent by Mexico City
24 station to Washington. = |
as fi ‘

Is that. perfectly clear, that there was no side

TOP SECRET 02

BW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 59


a]
|

~.

a

2s i

|
/ it
{

‘i . 1
| second one, because the transcription process couldn't have.

|
i

; , TOP SECRET a
50955 Docld:32277220 Page 60

TOP SECRET a

communication, to my knowledge, from either headquarters

to the station or from the station to headquarters?

Mr. Goldsmith. I certainly. understand your answer,
yes.

Turning back for a. moment to: the question of the
erasure of the first Oswald tape oriorits the receipt of the
second. My understanding -- and we can check the appropriate
cable for confirmation of this -- is. that the normal time
lag for the erasure ‘of tapés was two ‘weeks- Tf that is

correct, it would seem that the normal lag period did not

apply in regard to ‘thé-Oswald: contact.

In other words, the first, contact was September 27th,
or Septeniher 28th. whe next contact was October lst, and
the first contact tape was erased well before the two-week
period had elapsed, if.in fact the cable is securece in what
it reports that the first tape was érased prior to the receipt
of the second one.

Mr. Manell. You are correct in assuming that there

would have’ been, just for mechanical réasons, the ‘existence

of the first tape in its original form prior .to receipt of the

been. completed,. since it involved the Russian language,

until after the second call’ was made. You are correct there.

I.would just suggest here that perhaps in the heat of

writing an immediate cable on the 23rd.of November, the

{
v0t08G |



TOP SECRET —

language by Miss Goodpasture wasn't absolutely clear. I

a
ire)

think that the only thing she wanted to conver here, reading
into this, is that no voice comparison was made because we
don't have certainly on the 23rd of November either tape
available.

Mr. Goldsmith. In fact, she wasn't necessarily -being
completely accurate when she said the first tape was erased

prior to the receipt of the second.

Mr. Manell. I would say that the sentence does not
convey her intention.

Mr. Goldsmith.. To your knowledge, do you know of any
action on the part of anyone at the Mexico City station
indicating that that person withheld information from the
authorities at CIA headquarters concerning Oswald's visit .to
Mexico City?

Mr. Manell. No.

Mr. Goldsmith. JI have nothing further, Mr. Manell.

I would like to thank you very much for being here.

I also would like to say I am sorry if we inconvenienced you

today.

Mr. Manell. It wasn't your fault.

Mr. Goldsmith. Now, customarily when we call someone
to a hearing, a-person is given five minutes at the end of a
hearing to make a statement. We have called you here for a

deposition in lieu of a hearing. If. you,would like an

O01031

TOP SECRET

50955 Doocld:32277220 Page 61



TOP SECRET

1 opportunity to make a statement on the. record, please feel.,

60

free to do so. °

3 Mr. Manell. Your questioning leads me to two assump-

“4 tions. One, that either at headquarters or at the

5 station there was a communication ‘that fe not part of. the
: 6 a ‘that you have... Td: the very best: of my knowledge, I
7 believe you are incorrect. in having that assumption because,
8 || firstly, I know that I have no direct specific ‘knowledge to

9 | support that assumption. - | eteanenen eee

3

Secondly, I believe that in some ‘fashion I would’ have
an become privy to that fact if it indeed existed.
12 The second point I would like to.make does not bear on
e@ 13 || what you asked me today; but what you asked during the
If | interview. I was led believe that you had suspicion that
; one agency of the government knew that another: had more
contact with Oswald prior to the assassination ‘than isa
7 | matter of record and that perhaps another agency was covering
ee : eet
19 flere again, I certainly have no information: to bear out

20 | that assumption. But in this case, I wouldn't necessarily

21 || have had the means to become privy to that kind of informa-

22 | tion.

aie

3 | I think that you place emphasis on the fact that

a | Mr. Karamessines signed off on the name trace cable from
aia cin

headquarters to the station on the llth of October. That, I

O01032

' TOP SECRET

HW 50955 DocId:32277220 Page 62



AW 50955

TOP SECRET

61
} | find strange, but then again, I think -that’ by. thorough
2 investigation on your part, you could easily determine
_3 |] the-reason for ite ._. . i
4 So, rather than have it become an important: concern or

5 reservation on your part, I think that you could nail. that

“

9. (Whereupon, at 3:05 p.m., the deposition was concluded.)
1 :
10 I have read the foregoing pages

ey
tr

DocId:32277220 Page 63

6 down one way or the other with a minimum of investigation.
That is it. That is the end of my statement.

8 Mr. Goldsmith, Thank you very much.

“lL through! 61, inclusive; “which

contain’ a, correct transcript of

the answers made by me to the
questions’ therein recorded.
“Signature! is subject to,

“ corrections.

Herbert Manell

O04103"

TOP SECRET

i



TOP SECRET

1 CERTIFICATE OF NOTARY PUBLIC
a 2 I, Albert Joseph LaFrance, the officer béfore whom _—

3 the foregoing deposition was ‘taken, do hereby certify that

4 the witness whose testimony appears in'the foregoing deposi-

5 tion was duly sworn by me; that the testimony of said

6 || witness was taken Albert Joseph LaFrance, shorthand reporter,
7 and thereafter reduced to typewriting under my ditection:

g | that I am neither tees for, rélated ton nor employed by

9 any of the parties to the.action in swhich this deposition
was taken, and ‘farther, that I am Rota relative or employee
nW of any attorney: or counsel “employed ‘by the parties thereto,

12 | nor financially or otherwise interested in the outcome of

13 | the action.

: that abl ner,

Notary 2 b1lié Yp’ and for the

20 i Dis rict of Columbia
21 || My commission expires:
22 | November 14, 1980

334

24

’
q

o01024

TOP SECRET

AW 50955 Docld:32277220 Page 64

