# 180-10104-10394

## Page 1

180-10104-10394

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/2/201

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10104-10394

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

012918

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DOD

FROM: DOD

TO :

TITLE:

T

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES.

VECIANA, ANTONIO.

LEADS & INFORMATION.

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT.

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/13/1997

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: Box 227. 227-2.

v9.1

HW 50955

DooId: 32260836

Page

1

---

## Page 2

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FILES

ANTONIO VECIANA BLANCH #AA 90 49 16

Third agency information:

1.

CIA Msg dtd 252226z Sept 62, RE: Current plans of

Alpha 66

- 1/23/74 Review of file - certification file conforms

with dA policies currently in effect.

- Msg DA IN 278336

202230z Oct 62

According to Dup 750 (source) Veciana

re date

reported A66 will conduct 2 actions within next

10 days.: Veciana departing Puerto Rico

for Miami 20 Oct. Said action at La Isabela

(Cuba) did occur but not as reported in the

press. Original intent to sink Soviet ship,

however mine, which was to be used was lost.

Consequently attack made on beachside camp.

Estimated 5 Cúbans or Russians wounded.

2.

3.

Dup 742 reports next action of DRE will be

to attempt to assassinate a prominent Cuban

Communist before the end of October.

Comment: Veciana's description of La Isabela

probably much more accurate than his press

Both previous A66. operations

carried out while Veciana still in Miami.

Still no conclusive evidence operation at

(Reverse side carries routing information.

Action officer signature appears to be W.N.wood

or W.J. Wodd:10/22/62.)

NHT 50955

DooId: 32260836

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Department of Defense notes

Antonio Veciana #AA90 4916

P. Orr

3Id Party info

1. CIA Msg dtd 252226Z Sept. '62, re Current Plans of Alpha 66.

- 1/23/74 - Review of file - certification file conforms w/DA

policies currently in effect.

-Msg DA IN 278336 202230Z Oct. '62

FROM:

TO:

INFO:

CGANTCOMC/USAR CARIB Fort Brooke PR

ACSI, DA WASH, DC

CGUSARCARIB Fort Amador CD, DIO Tenth Naval

District, San Juan, PR

NR:

ANTGB 80

FIom G2. for G2

(Declassified from confidential)

1. According to (Dup 750), Veciana reported A66 will conduct 2

actions within next 10 days.

Veciana departing PR for Miami

20 Oct.

Said action at La Isabela did occur, but not as

reported in press. Original intent to sink Soviet ship;

however, mone which was to be used was lost. : Consequently.

attack made on beachside camp. Est. 5 Cubans or Russians

wounded.

2. (Dup 742) reports next action of DRE will be to attempt

assassinate prominent Cuban communist before end of October.

3. Comment: V's description of La Isabela probably much more

accurate than his press releases.

Both previous A66 ups

carried out while V. in Miami. Still no conclusive evidence

op. at La Isabela actually took place.

(Reverse side carries routing information. Action officer's

signature appears to be w.N.

wood or w.J. wood.

10/22/62.)

HW 50955

DooId: 32260836 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Veciana notes

Page 2

Antonio Veciana #AC 64: 3175

- 7/23/74 - review and certification file conforms w/DA policies

currently in effect.

- Registration request terminated w/out prejudice 7/22/66-

(service #SD 10721

- Memo for record 4/19/66

Re: Veciana

P-747

1.

4/19/66 telephone request received from (DASCO) from Mr.

CIA (W), regarding Veciana.

2.

stated he was departing immediately for N.Y. where was

to

meet a Mr. Cogswell, not further identified. During this

contact, l

not further ID'd, and perhaps v.

expected to meet an acquaintance of Veciana,

3.

Purpose of call was to ascertain if Detachment A had any

objection to CIA (W) poss. coming into contact w/V. It

was emphasized byl

_ that no contact w/him was planned.

]was informed that no objection was present, but if

contact was made, a report detailing the circumstances was

desired.

Signed: John F. McGowan

Mjr. 41S - LANTCOM Desk

Memo Cont'd.

MER - V. former treas. of A66 and SAFE on whom 01 was est.

on 11/19/62 for project. AUTOBOAT (C) •

"He was initially

contacted to est. meeting w/3 frogmen of the SNFE who had

been drawn (sucked up?) to the side of the Soviet ship which

they were attempting to sabotage.". Thru V. c/o met Meriora

(sic).. who arranged the meeting w/3 frogmen.

subseguent to

debriefing of frogmen, periodic contact was maintained w/v.,

with the last

contacting taking place in early 1963.

Memo - Routing Slip to MjI. McGowen

Note.

Ref. P. 748

Agency wishes to use 748 for intro to another individual.

They need immed. reply on this. Discussion will be by

telephone between desk officers.

Agency man leaves by plane

at 11:45. Ron Butler 4/19/66

HN 50955 DocId: 32260836 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Veciana notes

Antonio Veciana #AC 64 3175

Page 3

Itr. 4/13/63 from Veciana, A66, NY, NY to Joe Kent, PR

Indicates 40% equipment confiscated but still have enthusiasm

to go forward. Wishes to maintain contact.

Says press

conference by A66 in Washington probably mistake since-it

made U.S. govt. also resp.

- Attached info re press conference in Washington, D.C.

March 19, 1963

Gave press release signed by Veciana and Cecilio J.

Vazguez (SNFE) •

Make point that actions independent of any

U.S. agency, not mounted from U.S. soil; but attempting to

show ability, courage and strength to overthrow communist

govt. of Havana.

W/V. at conf. were Dr. Herminio Portell-Väla of Wash., DC

and Luis Felipe Anany, SI. of Wash., D.C.

Remarks by either Veciana or Vazquez at press conf.

indicate they regard it as improper to criticize any

department of the U.S. govt., but one (V or Vazquez)

felt that the U.S. policy during the Cuban crisis in

October 1962 constituted another Munich.

- Msg. to (or from?) Mjr. J.A. Wathington

Major AIS

OIC, USA OSD Field Def. #1

April 1963

List of aliens served w/

V's name included.

V limited to Dade Cty:

prevention of departure

HW 50955

DocId: 32260836

Page

5

---

## Page 6

ANTONIO C. VECIANA BLANCH

3rd PARTY INFO

1. FBI Report, dated 14 Nov 62 from San Juan, Subject: Operation

Alpha 66, Internal Security - Cuba, 2 p.

2. CAS Msg 895, dated 1 Jul 63, subject: Plans of Two Cuban Exile

Groups to Infiltrate a Team Into Cuba.

3. US Army Report, dated 10 Jun 66, subject: Antonio Veciana Blanch,

2 p. Report contains CIA info on subject.

4. US Army MFR, dated 25 Apr 66, subject: Veciana, 1 p. Report has

CIA info on subject.

5. FBI Report, duplicate of Item 1 above.

6. FBI Report, dated 12 Oct 62 from San Juan, subject: Operation Alpha 66,

Internal Security - Cuba, Neutrality matters, 3 p.

7. FBI Report, dated 8 Aug 62 from San Juan, Subject: Operation Alpha 66,

Internal Security - Cuba, Registration Act - Cuba, 6 p.

8. FBI Report, dated 30 Sep 65, subject: SNFE, 1 p (p #3).

9. FBI Report, dated 12/22/64 concerning Blanch, 1 p.

10. FBI Report, dated 22 Oct 62, subject: Same as 6 above, 3p.

11. FBI Report, dated 4 Mar 63, Miami, Subject: Same as Item 6, 5p.

12. FBI Report, ated 6 Feb 63, Subject: Comandos L66, Inc., Internal

Security - Cuba, 3 p.

13. FBI Report, dated 4 Feb 63 from San Juan, Subject: Alpha 66,

Incorporated, (A-66 Inc.), Internal Security - Cuba, Neutrality

ated,

Matters, 4p.

14. CIA Msg dated 271759Z Dec 62, Subject: SIGMA II - Alpha 66, 2 p.

15. CIA Msg dated 081509Z Dec 62, Subject: Possible Imminent Anti-

Castro Raid on Cuba, 2 p.

16. CIA Msg dated 081509Z Dec 62, Subject: Pirate Ship Attack on

Cuban Coast, 3 Dec 62, 2 p.

17. CIA Msg dated 111729Z Jan 63, Subject: EDDIE MOR, 2 pg.

18. CIA Msg dated 121900Z Nov 62, Subject: Alpha 66, 2 p.

19. CIA Msg dated 162218Z Nov 62, Subject: Alpha 66, 2 p.

1W 50955 DooId: 32260836 Page 6

---

## Page 7

• 44E

Source Dossier of Veciana (T) revd. fr. AUTOBO

by EPIDEMIC on 11/29/63

List of Documents from V. File - 1/30/64

TO:

USAFAD

Control #

FD #0297/63

(SD-S217-62)

FD #0297/63

(line crossed

out

FD #0197/63

(SD-S15-63)

FD #0297/63

(SD-S28-63)

(USADSD/8458)

Clas.

SC

S

No. Copies

1

SC

1

1

SC

1

FD #0297/63

(SD-S86-63)

SC

CC

1

1

1

1

Description of Doc.

Carbon cy, ltr. audition

(c) re::

A-66

Draft of contact w/V.

Photo cy, FBI rept. A66

Carbon Cy, ANTBG Msg 103

fI. King

Ltr., USAOSD, Re: A66 w/1

incl: Thermofax cy M/R

Re: Ct RE - Ao VA Be (cont)

đtd. 1/23/63

Carbon cy ANTBG Msg. 127

fI. King

Carbon cy Msg. for

Washington to ACSI

Date of

DOC.

10/22/6

11/1/62

11/14/6

1/16/63

1/29/63

3/31/63

4/1/63

(line crossed

out)

FD #0297/63

(SD-S195-63)

S

Thermofax cy, rept. on A66 undtd.

Carbon cy, CAS Msg. 895

fr. CAS

7/1/63

NHT 50955

DooId: 32260836

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Veciana notes

Page 5

-Itrs. from Veciana to Joe Kent, Kent Associates, PR

3/30/63 (in Spanish) from Miami

3/15/63

from Pittsburg, Pa.

(re travel? - Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles mentioned).

12/27/62 (in Spanish) from Miami

Note with address of Luis Duany

2244 Wash. Ave.

Silver Spg., Ma.

585-7448

w/note:

" Washington will contact V. at the above address:

a

"Mr. Conway" will contact him @ 1100 hrs.r

22 Jan. 63.

-Classified doc. - Mail control record

#0297/63"B"

FrOM:

AT

Dt.: Rovd: 11/29/63

File:

Dup 748

Summary:

SD-586-63 ANTGB Msg. 127, c cy, atd. 31 Mar. 63,

2 pgs. - nothing follows.

Note - transferred to Hq.

-FD

#0297/63 "B" - SC - 1 - carbon copy ANTBG Msg. 127 from

King SGD King.

Exclusive for Boucher (underlined in red)

AUDITION (C) AUTOBOAT (C)

v. called Kent from Miami on 3/31. Said he received

notice from U.S. Dept. of Justice - Prev. of departure.

Requests Kent's assistance in coming to San Juan.

will

appear before Mr. Savage, Rn. 215, Immig. Hq., on 4/1 w/request

to come to San Juan.

Aware Kent wants Menoyo to come to

Miami, but states Menoyo does not wish to leave base.

V. will remain at tel. until he hears from Kent.

No promise given; request advice.

V. now aware desire Menoyo come to Miami.

Assisting him may convince Menoyo to come.

At bottom:

Grover C. King

Lt. Col. AIS

SD-586-63

NN 50955 DooId: 32260836 Page

---

## Page 9

Veciana notes

_Page 6

-Classified doc. mail control record and receipt

#0297/63 "D"

FroM:

AT

Revd.:

11/29/63

File:

DUP 748

Summary:

Ccy, letr, subj.

- Assignment of code number

(Virpg., ata. 1/30/63; SD-521-63

Nothing follows.

Note:

transferred to Hq.

-1/30/63 - Assignment of Code #

TO:

Cmding Ofcr

USAOSD (9874), Wash., DC

DUP 748

assigned to V.

Signed:

FD #0297/63"D"

Grover C. King

Lt. Col., AIS

Commanding

SD-527-63

-Itr. 1/29/63 from J.E. Boyt, Col., Infantry, Commanding,

U.S. Army Operational Survey Detachment

To: Chief AUTOBOAT, San Juan

1. Mr. Phillip Conway (Capt. Arms) and Mr. Harold Parker

(It. Col. Drashpil) met V. on two occasions, 11/22 and 11/23.

2.

50423

ISR being conducted on Di. Duany, since he met Conway

and Parker. V. says he would not be returning to PR for

Intends to spend month in NY and go from

there to Chicago. Was given the Jackson telephone No.

"Aside from a sympathetic audience, he was given no

and was told only that we would look into the

possibilities for release of the boat.

We would expect to

be in periodic contact with him on that matter and you will

be informed of any significant developments.

Parker and

Conway only identified themselves as 'interested parties.""

3.

"AESI has expressed interest in exploring the possibilities

for assistance to V. in order that the potential of the group

can be exploited for intelligence purposes.

You will be

informed of any recommendations or directed courses of

actions as appropriate."

FD #0297/63

USAOSD/8458 "C"

NW 50955 DocId: 32260836 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Veciana notes

Page?

Attached:

-Memo FR

Re: Contact w/V.

1/23/63

1. Two members of USAOSD (using assumed names) met w/Veciana

on 1/22. Purpose of meeting was primarily to gather

details on a boat, used by org., which had been confiscated

by U.S. Customs.

V. was also queried on te capabilities

and mission of the group, his role, and what assist. might

be provided org.

2. Background of V.

3. V. said purpose org. was to cause war in Cuba by conducting

raiding ops., est. guerrilla groups in Cuba - to harass and

destroy troops and strategic facilities as to make populace

aware that overthrow poss. Envisions internal Cuban uprising

thru external Cuban refugee action.

Does not desire direct U.S. participation, has no political

aims, other than to overthrow Castro. This is reason V..

did not cooperate with other refugee groups, and why they

did not desire to work w/CIA, because aims would be

subverted to political ones.

Claims several military bases in Caribbean. Bases manned by

small groups w/mil: experience. Also had assets in Cuba.

Maintain Hg. in PR, Miami, and NY and plan to establish

offices in Washington, Chicago and LA.

4. Latest plan to collect funds for purchase of eight boats

•for use in their raiding activities.

Already have four boats. Need boats, food, radios.

Will purchase transceiver equipment.

5. V. gave doc. re:

Customs-seized boat.

Boat owned by Cuban-American who is not member of org.

Boat worth $2000. Supplies and equipment aboard - 10 M-1

rifles w/ammo., food, fuel, 10 watches,

kw generator. Total

value about $8,000.

6.

Requested assistance in release of boat. Pleaded for funds

(10,000) and more freedom of movement.

Signed,

William C. Arms

Capt.

LA desk

HW 50955 DooId:32260836 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Veciana notes

Page 8

1/16/63

ED #0297/63 "E"

S Msg. ANTGB 103

From King SGD King. Exclusive for Boucher (underlined in red)

1. 1/16/63 Icvd. from V. - A66 plans eight commando-type

actions within next 60 days. Raids by 5-man commando parties.

Two will be demolitions men.

2.

Ordered 12 fiberglass boats - 18 ft.

@ $2000 ea.

Three

delivered already.

Remainder within

45. days.

3.

Has 1,000 lbs. C-3 explosives w/time-fuse pencils,

60 submachine guns, 40 machine guns, 400 hand grenades.

4. Will depart PR 1/18/63 for Wash., DC. Requested AUTOBOAT

furnish him name of someone to see in reference to getting

boat released (confiscated 10 or 11/62) •

5. Reguest AUTOBOAT be sent name or agency for V. to contact.

-Draft of contact w/Veciana 11/1/62

FD #0297/63 "F"

Jeff W. Bocher

Colonel, GS

Chief, Collection Div.

Veciana contacted initially to contact two frogmen involved in

attack on Russian target.

Meeting arranged. Capt. Hubbard and

Col. King in meeting. Discovered V. working w/SFNE, thought given

to consideration of utilization of V. for intelligence purposes

as Menoya has ISR from 1961 and known to have contacts in Cuba.

Picked up ISR from CIA 11/2/6?. V. gave Army two rifles, ammo.

taken from Russians.

Operation discussed but stymied by lack.of

clear policy on actions against. Matter brought to higher

levels; i.e., General Landsdale.

Some discussion of possibly passing info to CIA for their

This suggestion turned down by Landsdale, who

recommendation. informed, then took over op. Also in no better

felt CIA, when

position to determine national policy.

Persons involved in discussions - Col. Boyt, Col. Rolfe, Cols.

Albro and Boucher, Col. DePuy of Special Warfare and Generals

Lansdale and Leonard.

NH 60955 DooId: 32260836 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Veciana notes

Page 9

Meeting 1/22 and 23 indicates poss. of exploiting A-66 if they

can successfully run raids into Cuba and infiltrate island.

Approval must be obtained and must be in line with national policy.

Next step will then be develop further rapport; complete

coordination. w/DCSOPS should be effected to assure max.

intelligence collection and operational application.

Prepared by: Lt. Col. Drashpil

Coord.: Maj. Swatford, Capt. Arms.

Boat - Sigma - Raimundo Molina Gonzalez

Pat Harris (Capt. Hubbard) contacted Nazairo, Banos, V. 3/31/63

Menoyo (DUP 749) told not to come to Miami

Milford P. Hubbard

Capt. A-IS

4/1/63

V. told AUTOBOAT can't help him gain

permission to enter PR at this time.

Not able to send rations to Menoyo camp

yet.

Requested assistance in prep.

of statement re: JFK crackdown on

raids. Expressed feelings of good

fortune they had found agency they

could trust.

Harris met V. and Banos.

Menoyo and Mugult at Williams Island base camp... Since

Harris told them to remain there, they may form opinion

Harris was aware of pending British raids and had placed

them in position to facilitate capture.

Examination of weapons captured in Cuba - doubtful group landed.

Weapons could have been obtained elsewhere.

NW 50955

DooId: 32260836

Page 12

---

