omen SD LF LF LF £2 4 LF £9 SF ~*~

. Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted Sh AO aS SOR
from ClA—controlled documents.) Sere OF THES DOOUME

Alvarado

On November 16, 1977 the Select Committee interviewed
Thomas C. Mann, the U.S: Ambassador to Mexico at the time
of President Kennedy's assassination. \ (HSCA Interview, T.
Mann, JFK Doc. 003966) The Mann interview was prompted by
the Committee's two-fold interest in Oswald's pre- ae
trip to Mexico City and the subsequent post-assassinatio: Kone ED
investigation of Oswald's activities in JuEa city by—the

yee fe meee

CiA—and-PBI. Fencing Syria eo INUOt lp peter ppuerein

investigate Oswald's Mexico City activities; especially
whether Oswald had conspired with Castro Cubans to assassinate
President Kennedy. CED iA, avd

During the course of the Mann interview, the Ambassador
indicated that he had received instructions from the State
Department to) pe hee his efforts to confirm or chen rumors

overs (Sie ae

of Cuban nie Ear in the aBsassination ore was Mann's be-
lief that CIA and FBI representatives had received similar
eeeeteeens| bat their respective directors. Urb: & ¢! a

sepade Select Semactee to Stda, Soeticn mete Cpore tant
The ee touched upon Mann's belief that ener ea

£ Lege

U.S. authorities had foreclosed investigative efforts to

determine whether Cast Cubans were connected to the
C, Bowte®, pp vo = GBS

An FBI supervisor who had traveled to Mexico

assassination

learning from Ambasador Mann the extent of his efforts to . 4

.., Classification:

| Classified by derivation: ______

“jose lob ip


rn le lee >.

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

peu Beate

City on November 27 to assist in oa aspect of the FBI

Aceebe
investigation testifying before the ganges Committee noted

that:

he "knows of no investigation in

Mexico to determine if there was a

Cuban involvement in the assassina-

tion of President Kennedy" other

than disproving the "D" allegation.
Ni (ssc, Book V, p. 42.)

Ambassador Mann was questioned about "D" during his

interview with this Committee. “D" whose true name is Gilberto

Alvarado Ugarte, yhad on “Novenber 25, 1963 alleged that Oswald
Cen me ate nine CiPy

el «AB
nilectertes $6500 from Cuban officials” to assassinate Presi-

Was bid po oe
Alvarado's allegation to-have~been a fabrication. Mann

QD. GG. GS. @&S S&S SS EZ

asserted to the Committee that Alvarado's retraction of his

Oswald allegation had been tainted. 7 the interro oggtion methods
Paley Car of T) Mana IRR. OOF te

utilized by the Mexican Ae eal ae stated that Mexi-
el BL Nhe f

can police procedures were ceereive~and would’ have caused

Alvarado to adjust his statements in order to conform to the
wed

position which the Mexicans wanted him to adopt. (HSEA

Interview, -DeManny~pr-2 ed EK-DoOeT00 3966 )
Because the Alvarado allegation stands as the only
specific substantive investigation by U.S. authorities in - §

Mexico City of possible Cuban complicity. in President Ken-

2001459

| Classified by derivation: ___

eae leae
i” dent Kennedy.’ U.S. and Mexican er determin he

ye ee ee ee


eT TTT LrT—

Classification: _

(This form is to be used for material extracted |
from ClA—controlled documents.)

to make two critical determinations. These are:

1) Whether the conduct of the FBI and CIA investi-
gation of Alvarado's allegation reflected Ambassa- i
dor Mann's belief that efforts to investigate
possible involvement of the Castro Cubans in the

. a were :
assassination was prematurely terminated; and
2) Whether the investigation by FBI and CIA of Alvarado's

allegations was subject to objective scrutiny and

investigative diligence.
In order to make these two determinations the Committee

has reviewed the Alvarado files maintained by the FBI, CIA,

‘ Poreoy
and State Department. In addition to Mann's initial inter-

view, a second follow-up interview pertaining to Mexico City
wl mana
aspects of the assassination was conducted by the Committee on
CO SCAT vp or Of TMaan SEC Dac
November | 1978. Moreover, depositions and hearings

involving former CIA personnel concerned with the investi-

of review by this Committee.

Classification:

| Classified by derivation: ____

rT gation of Alvarado have been conducted to complete the record

ae ee


49 LF £9 £F £F £9 £9 £9 S97 ~*
Classification: I

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
Bere

The Alvarado Allegation and the Possibility of Cuban Complicity

in@® Assassination

he On November 23, Ambassador Mann cabled the State De-
g partment declaring:

circumstances already developed here
point to possibility that Oswald may have
been Castro's agent. Mexicans are also
\ keenly aware of the possibility. (CIA Doc.
\N MEXI 1180, 11/23/63) ivy, — p

The Ambassador's suspicions ed eee two days later,

eaNovember 25, when Gilberto Alvarado Ugarte, a twenty-three
year old Nicaraguan national appeared at the American Embassy

in Mexico City. Alvarado reported to Embassy officials

that on September 18, 1963, he had witnessed a payment of

$6500 to Lee Harvey Oswald by a Cuban official in Mexico -.

City to assassinate President Kennedy.* Ycta Doc MEXI 7069,
11/26/63) Alvarado contended that, at noon on September 18,

while he was in the Cuban Consulate arranging his travel
* The CIA reported on November 26 that Alvarado:
"is a well-known Nicaraguan underground member who is

‘ also a regular informant of the Nicaraguan security ser-

vice,an officer of which has provided this Agency with
his reports for over a year. We consider his reliability
to be questionable although he has not been wholly dis-

credited." (CIA out Teletype No. 85089, 11/26/63)._ Q

Classification:

| Classified by derivation: _____

ee a ee ee ee


3
i

ee

zu Classification:
ve
£ / (This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.) CIAHAS. 19 08
DECLASS

BeLense OF

to Cuba, he observed approximately eight persons enter
the Cat tae Eusebio Azcue, the Cuban Consul in Mexico
OND

cit

‘ rf gts Alva tite

However, ‘Azcue was not in his office but rather a

Cuban se we known to Alvarado was seated behind Azcue's

ivarado reported that after observing this man he

(needed a bathroom which he reached by walking through a
Cpe b 82

aeedilea :
passageway onto a patio.! At the patio, Alvarado, stated

<
he observed three men grouped together. ne man was a
tall, thin, red-haired Negro, with prominent cheek-bones “yy a?

displaying a scar on the lower right aise of his chin! this
oe
man spoke with a Cuban accent 4 a ‘he second man was described

by Alvarado as Caucasion, wigh guren eyes and blond hair-
cut ina pompadour style.’ Alvarado added that he had pre-

viously observed this man disp laying a Canadian passport in
rai 7 id

fhe third man was dressed ina

pcos
black sportcoat, white ee and an.open collar shirt! ! Fe
Pare

also wore clear eyeglasses. Kivarado contended phat he

the Consulate waiting room.

recognized this third-man as Lee Harvey oswald (following
the geeasei nation and after publication of Oswald's photo-

gzaph)
Alvarado alleged that while situated on the patio,

ON

ae ot Classification:

AMA EBD

| Classified by derivation: ___

a ae


4 £9 2 LF LF LH £9 £9 a ~

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

he observed the Cuban who had been seated at Azcue'’s desk,

ae AR

Alvarado reported that the following exchange then transpired

approach the red-haired Negro and hand him a sum of money.

between Oswald and the red-haired Negro:
Negro: (in English) I want to kill the man.
Oswald: Youre not man enough. I can do it.

Negro: (in Spanish) I can't go with you. TI have a lot
to do.

Oswald: The people are waiting for me back there.

J (CIA Doc. MEXI 7069, 11/26/63)

“sh
37>

eo SG GE Mm BER SB SS SS. HS.

er bnk batt 2a
Alvarado alleged that following the shove icons MW eae®

observed the red- haired Nego hand oswads Se $6500 in U.S. cur-
rency-and 200 aire Ade stated he then saw a female
"4 employee of — “pwiee Consulate embrace Oswald and give him
her address’. | ‘ater, according to Alvarado, while standing
7 outside the Consulate, he saw, Oswald and his two companions
leave the Consulate and enter an automobile. (Ibid.) ¢~
GTR SRa Rta peep. cel ees
hk

tion. It noted in its cable to CIA headquarters that Alvarado
claimed he had, at the end of September 1963, telephoned

* Alvarado stated that he did not see the Cuban man again after
Sept. 18.

Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

, ee ee ee



4
4
4
g
gp
p
6
g
§
ia
§
4

ee i

Classification: _

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
ge Gee
the U.S. Embassy several times to report the anne ae PS ¢ giv
t a

is be
alleged he overheard while at the Cuban Consulate! (areatoae)

told the American authorities that he had used a “alias,
Jorge Kynaut when he placed these calls to the Embassy.
Alvarado alleged that after his repeated _phone calls to.

the Embassy with no _ _positive response Eom phe Embassy per-
=

ney A he was finally tol@to "quit wasting our time. We
CI df
are working here, not. playing." (CIA out teletype no. 85099,

11/24/63) — Ladle
As cited above, Alvarado contended that he recognized

eal ORK S Bed ie DEER EL a ns EI FECES (on She Aa bore, Sp nF oid ob
Oswald” from press photographs generally available after the

Se ee the Ameri-
can Embassy on November 25. (CIA Doc. MEXI 7069, 11/26/63) A
On the morning of November 26 Alvarado was questioned at

the American et bya CIA representative and an Embassy

TRAE Jeet, [2 for
security officer.’ ne a follow- up to Alvarado's initial”

interrogation, CIA's Mexico Gity Station requested AVE,

a rrr—~——“COrs—*~srs=S:i<‘Cti«iswstsstsCi=Cé“sC}(RN

headquarter's traces on Gilberto Alvarado ugarte.<© BT =9

cteth
Ambassador Man reacted with great concern to Alvarado's

allegation. He requested that an FBI officer thoroughly

knowledgeable about all aspects of the assassination investi-,

gation be sent to Mexico City to brief him and help direct
the investigation. (MEXI 1182, 11/25/63) An FBI memorandum

Classification:

| Classified by derivation: ___

ye ee ee ee ae



49 LF LF LF £9 2 2 LF £9 ~*~

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

recorded that:

when Mann heard of Alvarado's detailed account
of payoff, he requested FBI representatives be
sent from FBI headquarters to take charge of

investigation in Mexico. Request referred to

Bureau by Legat, Mexico City and State Depart- 1s
ment. On 11/26/63 it was decided that FBI super- Ls
visor Laurence P. Keenan should promptly depart

-

for Mexico City to assist in this investigation.
Mann was tactfully told that while FBI was dis-
posed to send Keenan FBI was not assuming State
or CIA responsibilities and could only offer ad-
vice on policy matters concerning those Agencies.*
(FBI File 105-82555-656, 12/3/63( Emphasis added) -

In addition,on November 26 the CIA Mexico City Sta-
tion had intercepted, taped and transcribed iconvecettich
between the Cuban President Dorticos, in Havana, and the

: Phe
Cuban auacsariee (cues in Mexico City. During the course
of the Dorticos-Armas conversation, Dorticos twice inquired
whether Silvia Duran, during her interrogation by Mexican
authorities, had been asked whether the Cubans had offered

Oswald money. Armas twice replied that the Mexicans had asked

no such question. (CIA Doc. MEXI 7068, 11/26/63)” this informa-

* In response to Ambassador Mann's request, the State Depart-
ment informed Mann that J. Edgar Hoover believed the FBI
Legat in Mexico City, Clarke Anderson, was fully aware of
all information then available pertaining to the assassina-
tion. However, if Anderson believed he required additional
assistance, Anderson should so inform FBI headquarters.
(State Dept. Cable 958, 11/26/63)\/

Classification:

= GE. HS ESS OU. GA. SA “SS. SS Sl UE

| Classified by derivation; ___

MaMa Mee ee.



Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted CNHs
from ClA—controlled documents.) DEC

Higute
tion, Mann felt, added credibility to Alvarado's allegation.

Mann therefore suggested that Alvarado should be put at then

Mexican President Mateos'(aisposat with tt the condition that
Duran be rearrested and confronted with Alvarado. (CIA Doc
MEXI 7072, 11/26/63)

On November 27, the CIA's Mexico City Station cabled

‘

Ra
CIA headquarters detailing

iann's request that an FBI repre-
sentative be dispatched to Mexico City. (CIA Doc MEXI 7084,

11/27/63) The Mexico City Station reported in a second cable

WET les,

Rubinstein case. Vera Doc MEXI 7092)" As a result, the CIA's

Mexico City Chief of Station recommended that FBI dispatch a

representative to Mexico City unless the State Department could

convince Mann that he was being briefed fully on all information
developed. (Ibid.)\/
As the record reflects, both the FBI and the CIA
actire pry ltl mech

were seriously concerned with Ambassador Mann s interjection

of-himself in#é the Mexico City investigation. On November

with of the CIA's Counter-intelligence staff. a

{
(CIA Doc, LHO Add'l Info File, Memorandum, 11/27/63) —N OL

During the course of their conversation Papich and

205146? Classification:

on the 27th that "Mann feels not fully briefed on Oswald/ f

| Classified by derivation: ___

6 4 27th, the FBI liaison officer to the CIA, Sam Papich, spoke


6
6
6
4
4

LY LF LE LF LL L8 LE 9 Ma ~

Classification: _

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

eg His
discussed Alvarado's allegations. It was Papich's opinion
that "the Ambassador down there wants nuts" in his efforts
to determine if the Cubans had conspired to assassinate

President Kennedy. Papich commented further that, "It would

be premature to move so quickly on that angle."

responded, “It might have been alright if we knew we would
find other confirming stuff." (Ibid.) -N).k-y ot
Thus, by November 27th signs of conflict with respect
to U.S. investigative policies in Mexico City had surfaced.
U.S. responsibility for Alvarado, investigation of his alle-
gation and Ambassador Mann's role in the matter were all at
issue.
Scr bar
The record a#so reflects that by November 27th,
Alvardo's allegation was being thoroughly scrutinized by
American authorities in Mexico City. Alvarado was undergoing
a detailed reinterrogation conducted by CIA representatives
inky OC chy
at a CIA safehouse. ACIA Doe MEXI 7093, 11/27/63) During
the course of the reinterrogation Alvarado was shown photo—
graphs of Cuban Consulate personnel from which he identified
Luisa Calderon as the EE whomhe claimed had embraced Oswald pales

inside the Cuban Consulate on September 18. (CIA Doc. MEXI~

7098, 11/27/63) Alvarado also was able to identify Oscar

20 46 Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

ye ee ee ee

aU FA Se DH HHS SB SB SA A OE!


6
é
6
p
§
g
4
a
g
p
$
g

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

- 10 -

Concepcion Hernandez as the Cuban who had been seated at
Azcue's desk and subsequently handed a large amount of cur-
rency to the red-haired Negro prior to its alleged passage
forOswalld si Poide)iete a atedaee tetbed bie Prd Gots

A second conversation between Dorticos and Armas
was intercepted by the CIA on November 27th. “(cIA Doc. MEXI
7097, 11/27/63) Armas reaffirmed to Dorticos' that Duran had
made no mention of a money offer to Oswald during the course
of the interrogation by Mexican police. (Ibid. ) Mann cabled
this information to the State Department and also noted
that Alvarado was being reinterrogated by CIA representatives
in Mexico City. He commented:
It will not have escaped your attention
that the wealth of detail Alvarado giver
about events and personalities involved
with Oswald in Cuban Embassy is striking.

—<>(CIA Doc MEXI 7104, 11/27/63, see also
CIA Doc DIR 85573, 11/27/63) —f).L.

Mann further reported that Mexican authorities

Classification:

| Classified by derivation: ___

ToT ee we we.

=a “2A GA GR GE SE. YR YG. SS. El UC:


4 LF 9 LY SF LP LY £9 49 ~

Classification: i

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

é
"a
eaqq ee x
es

had rearrested Silvia Duran'to avoid her possible Yesc

1
v
to Cuba and consequent unavailability as a witness. (Ibid.
Finally, Mann requested that:

Washington should urgently consider fea-
sibility of requesting Mexican authorities
to arrest for interrogation Eusebio Azcue,
Luisa Calderon, and Alfredo Mirabal [a
Cuban Intelligence Service officer at_the
Cuban Embassy compound in Mexico City]...

They may all quickly be returned to Havana
in order to eliminate any possibility that
Mexican government could use them as wit-
nesses...

oa EE UA “A

While I realize enormous difficulty in giv-
ing us instructions, I nevertheless feel
obliged to point out again that time is 4}
of the ‘essence here. (Ibid.) Geeeeeee [ h

That day CIA representatives in Washington met with
Alexis Johnson of the State Department to discuss Mann's
request for arrests. In a cable to Mexico City Station
discussing this meeting, CIA headquarters noted:

There is a feeling in three agencies
(FBI, CIA, StateJ Mann is pushing case
too hard. Will “cause flap with Cubans.
Johnson sent ODACID (FBI) channels to o
1 Mann to give better perspective. (CIA hee cee -
Doc DIR 85469, 11/27/63) aioe MRI pn \

Classification:

| Classified by derivation: ___



4 LF LF LF FF LF LF AF

Classification:

OR this. form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

a
35
Geo
aN

eet Br ees eet

Johnson's "better perspective" was cabled to Mann that

day. Johnson stated in his cable that the FBI was to be
ep Ste Dog pt Coyle

considered in full charge of the investigation. He also Py el 6

=

a WR DH RM HH SB BS BAB A TF,

informed Mann that Oswald's presence in New Orleans from
September 17 through September 25 had been established

in conflict with Alvarado's statement eee had. been
in the Cuban Consulate on September 18. Therefore, John-

son stated that sufficient validity had not been established

Though. the record does disclose, as detailed above,
that Mann's efforts to investigate the possibility of Cuban
resteas otal.
complicity in the assassination were being. limited, the record
also reveals that the FBI and CIA were continuing to investi-
pots FE la path Clk Ute

gate Alvarado's story .winkts.in the process, attempting to

avoid possible serious repercussions that arrests of Cuban
diplomatic personnel might well have caused. As an FBI memo-

randum of November 27 records:

/the7 decision to act on Ambassador

* It should be noted that Oswald's presence in New Orleans
on Sept. 18 had not, as of November 27th, been firmly esta-
blished. However, his presence in New Orleans had been
established for September 17 and September 19.

Classification:

| Classified by derivation: ___

aw ee ee



a ee ee ee :

Classification: aeeeeeaaemetes »

i
j
|

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

ete Ik yee

Mann's suggestion is one for /State Dept.
and CIA7 to make....meanwhile, the Bureau's
investigation in an effort to definitely
place Lee Harvey Oswald on 9-18-63 is
going forward...

Our position is that agressive, positive
investigation must be continued to com- /
pletely resolve Mexico City Angle /FBI file. f
05-82555-122,11/27/637 j v
a St Berilonce Actin hans f Pb me tds 3°

Furthermore, the same FBI memorandum noted: "Legal

Attache instructed to follow with CIA, Mexico City, steps

being taken to locate and identify the unidentified Negro

Nevertheless, by November 27, the record indicates

cabled the Mexico City Station indicating that nad

placed Oswald in New Orleans from September - 17 chtough Sep-

tember 25th. The cable concluded that the placement of
fh OS coat.
| Alwaredo yin New Orleans was a further reason not to believe

Alvarado's allegation. (CIA-Doc. DIR 85258, 11/27/63) 9) cl

The Mexico City Station reported to CIA headquarters
that Alvarado's story only Ga ueteia ates that he had at some

point been inside the Cuban Embassy. icra Doc. MEXI 7107,

11/27/63) The Station requested that} [Alvarado's

Nicaraguan case officer, be present at Alvarado's interro-

gation to add weight to the questioning (though would

i Classification:

fa

and Canadian referred to by Ugarte." (Ibid.) \% f

| Classified by derivation: ____

A that CIA doubted Alvarado's veracity. CIA headquarters

a ee ee



s
g
6
6
6
p
wh
6
g
‘a
6
a

4 SF LF £9 LF £2 £9 2

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

een ey aes

ask no questions). (Ibid.)~/
A second CIA headquarters cable to Mexico City on
November 27 stated:
In the face of mounting evidence it
appears that Alvarado's story is a
fabrication. Urge you to follow
up with his Nacaraguan case officer.
(CIA Doc. DIR 85616, 11/27/63)\/ °
Headquarters added that Alvarado's interrogators should
probe deeply into Alvarado's makeup, appear sympathetic to
him while promising the hope of future assistance should
he cooperate with his interrogators. (Ibid. )./

Apparently a jurisdictional conflict over Alvarado's

: A \ be
custody and interrogation had begun to develop between the | :
FBI and CIA. cag j

_—

(On November 28, the CIA's Mexico City Station cabled; ~
CIA headquarters requesting that Alvarado be turned over

to the Mexican authorities detailing to the Mexicans Alva-

PEEIA Dow, MAI TL 5, fed fied

rado's falsification of his traveling ene It was noted
by the Station that the “Gatter point alone gives Metteate. a
good reasons to subject him to detailed interrogation." ei
Doc. MEXI 7113, 11/28/63) The Mexico City Station proposed

that it cease contact with Alvarado following his release

to the Mexican authorities. Gtbia.J\/

Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

SS TrrhrmreeSC EC Te


i‘

é
4
p
$
§
é
6
6
p.
p
4

SD £2 £9 £7 £7 7 479 SF 7 *«
Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

eee

CIA headquarters responded that day by cable to the
Mexico City Station requests. Headquarters instructed that
Alvarado was not to be turned over to the Mexicans prior
to discussion of the matter with the FBI. The Mexico City
Station was ordered to notify CIA headquarters if the FBI
Legat in Mexico City attempted to persuade the Station’ to
release Alvarado to the Mexicans. dae Doc. DIR 85661,
11/28/63)

An FBI memorandum also discussed Alvarado's handling.
The memorandum reveals that:

On 11/28/63 our Legal Attache pursuant
to instructions issued by Assistant
Director Sullivan, unequivocably ad-
vised the Ambassador {MANNJ that the
Bureau was not directing the investi-
gation_in Mexico and that we consi-
déréd_ ourselves to be in. full. che ge
of the investigation.conducted.within
the.leSw In discussing this matter
with Assistant Director Sullivan, Legal
Attache-Anderson suggested that the

best course of action would be for

CIA to turn Alvarado over to. the
Mexicans and request a thorough investi-
gation of charges including a polygraph

QGULET Classification:

RS UH Mm Mm BA Mm A RT EE! UT CUE!

| Classified by derivation; —___

-& ee ee


LF SY LF £7 9 LF SF LF LF ~*~

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-~16-

etativé examination. This course was adopted anththe Bureamdia Son
cepres “amt so recommended to CIA on the after-

noon of 11/28/63.% (FBI file 105-82555- “| Nf wr

246, 11/29/63) CE mpresi 5 ete 7 § 7K
CIA Headquarters subsequently cabled the Mexico City
Station that the FBI had requested Alvarado be turned over

to the Mexican authorities who could be requested to admini-

ster a polygraph examination. deta Doc. DIR 85663, canine
The Mexicans took custody of Alvarado on November 28. |

<<—— Apparently Ambassador Mann was pleased with thé de-

velopment for an FBI memorandum records:

This morning Ambassador Mann expressed
to us his great pleasure on authorization
given for CIA to make Alvarado available
to the Mexicans. He stated he felt this
was the only way to resolve question of
veracity of [avekace, s story. (FBI file
105-82555-384, p. 3.) V

appears Ther
* Apparentiy, the FBI and CIA had differing views regarding

the Mexico City aspects of the assassination investigation.
A memorandum,-dated November 29, 1963 reveals
that on November 28 had advised Sam Papich of the

FBI that the CIA was not yet prepared to turn Alvarado

Y over to the Mexicans. Acting on instructions from Richard

Helms, informed Papich that the CIA considered it
the FBI's responsibility to decide whether Alvarado would
be turned over to the Mexicans. Papich responded that he
believed the responsibility was the CIA's ich, after
consultation with his superiors, pe rormeal [that the
FBI had officially decided that Alvarado would be released
to the Mexicans for interrogation and polygraphing.
later informed Papich that the CIA was in ly comply=
ing with the FBI instructions. (CIA Doc. Memo to
the Record, 11/29/63, CI/S1@, Soft File on LHO)\/

40% Classification:
PR aed

A GA GA UT GA VC. GH ME EA ERM EGE.

|' Classified by derivation:

” a ee ee


U

Classification: _

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

eee ft a

The Mexico City Station that day requested thet a
Spanish speaking polygraph operator be sent to Mexico City
to polygraph Alvarado.‘ (CIA Doc. MEXI 7120, 11/28/63
CIA headquarters replied that no Spanish speaking polygraph
operator was then available.Nicta Doc. DIR 85667, 11/28/63

On the morning of November 29, Alvarado was interro-
gated for one hour by the Mexican authorities. He was
further interrogated for three hours that afternoon. At —
the close of these sessions, the Mexican interrogator con-

cluded that either Alvarado was telling the truth or "he

is the best liar I have talked to in*many years and I
have talked to some of the biggest." feta Doc. MEXI 7156,
11/30/63)

The Mexico City Station-tmé also reported on November
29th that Alvarado had repeated his original statement to
the Mexicans but that he had failed to identify a photograph
of Silvia Duran. It was noted that the Mexican interrogator
did not believe Alvarado's story and would attempt to
"break" nin.@ (cra Doc. MEXI 7127, 11/29)¥

During the evening of November 29, Alvarado's Nicaraguan

case officer Inet with the Mexican interrogator U(CIA

a
Doc. MEXI 17168 11/30% %and breWfed the interrogator on

had indicated to the Mexico

Alvarado's backgroun

Classification:

a “DR DH EE BB SE DBA AA TA GT.

| Classified by derivation: ____

a ee ee ee



LY £7 2 LF 9 £9 9 ~*~

Classification: _

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

ea es
City Station that Alvarado's reporting had been "75% accu-
rate" and that he had in the past furnished good information
on Communist activity. He did indicate that Alvarado
tended to "go off on his own at times" making him impossible
to control. ¥(Ibid.)

On November 30 the Mexican interrogator reported to Win
Scott that Alvarado had signed a statement stating that
his story of seeing Oswald inside the Cuban Embassy was
a complete fabrication. FBI Legal Clark Anderson advised

Bureau headquarters:

Gilberto Alvarado Ugarte in Mexico Citys«-
| has confessed to the Mexican official that
ge his statement on Oswald was fabeeoce

Alvarado stated his motive was personal.
And did not involve his country. He said
he wanted to give the U.S. a reason for
overcoming Castro. Our Legal Attache

said Ambassador Mann is very pleased at
the way the FBI handled the matter ,and
has so advised the Department. Ambassador
Mann also wanted his personal .gratitude
extended to the Director.

Seat of Government to handle our aspects
of the matter will be returning to Wash-
ington, D.C., tomorrow afternoon with full
particulars: (FBI File 105-82555-823,
11/30/63) \/

2CSLA?? Classification:

VCR UW QD GE GG GS ES SB Se EZ! A EA

| Classified by derivation: ____

a SA Lawrence Keenan sent to Mexico from the

ee a ee



4 SF SF LF £9 2 £2 FF ~

Classification: _

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

See ey

Nevertheless, it appears that Ambassador Mann main-
tained certain reservations regarding Alvarado's interroga-
tion by the Mexicans. Mann cabled washington on November
30th and indicatéd’Alvarado' s admission otaionoyeates | 4

Mean
a fabrication. <%@.stated that he accepted Alvarado's

confession but that there were still unexplained circum-
stances in Mexico City connected with the assassination.
He indicated his desire to be kept informed of any new

investigative developments because the inquest for evi-

p
y
§
‘

6

dence would continue. \ (MEXI 1213 Nov. 3965 An FBI memorandum

stated that:

"/Bmbassador Mann/ accepts fact that
story was a fabrication but continues to
feel Castro may have been behind Kennedy's
assassination."(¥1t was further noted
\ “ .that Mann based his feelings in part on the
Borticos Armas conversation which had con-
cerned possible questioning of Silvia Duran
wv". ;% about Cuban offers of money to Oswald to
, carry out the assassination. (FBI File 105-
82555-879)

CIA Headquarters on November 30th also expressed some

ti i ired "what threats romises, inducements, an
quarters inquire a , P ' ng Pein bos Saget?
inh

tactics were used by bang ne eacean interrogator." mwas
eee
A
Alvarado mistreated?” \ "CIA headquarters urged that the Nicara-
‘Z wits

guans not do away with Alvarado. fe was also stated that
Classification:

}
f
f
f
f
j
y
p
y
f
}
f

| Classified by derivation; _____

6 \ concern over Alvarado's interrogation by the Mexicans. Head-

ST TT DT a a i



LF £9 LF £2 £9 FF £2 £97 FF

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-~ 20 -

the question of Oswald acting sores on his own still re-
mained unanswered. (CIA Doc. DIR 86064, 11/30/63); J

It should be noted with some concern that while the
cable traffic reviewed indicates that Alvarado gave a full
confession of his Eabrication, the summary of his interro-

gation by the Mexicans is not so precise.

A CIA translation of the Mexican interrogation states
in part:

a. That spontaneously, and after reconsideration,
he desires to state that the North American to
whom he had referred in the body of his state-
ment and whom he saw on 18 September of this
year in the Cuban Consulate looked like, and
he was 60% sure that he looked like, Lee Harvey
Oswald, the assassin of the President of the
United States. (emphasis added)

g
§
§
é
p

b. That after the assassination of President Kennedy,
Alvardo took advantage of these occurrences,
giving versions such as the above one, for the
purpose of provoking a strong reaction in favor iets
of the United States against the government of as
Fidel Castro Ruz. e
fue

(CIA Doc. DDP4-2741, Memo from R. Helms to J. Lee iu
Rankin, 6/1/64, Attachment F, p5)

did not in fact completely retract his original allegations.
Why both the FBI and CIA reported that Alvardo had admitted
total fabrication when the Mexican interrogation summary

records only that Alvardo was "60% sure" that he had seen

LAT Classification:

| Classified by derivation: ___

epee.
, As the above quotation clearly indicates, Alvarado

ee



4 SF LY SY LF LY FF £9 MF ~

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
= 21-

Oswald is not answered by review of the available record.
In addition the record does not indicate whether Ambassador
Mann or the FBI and CIA representativesin Mexico City had
access to the Mexican interrogation report as of November 30th
when Alvarado's retraction was reported to FBI and CIA Head-

quarters.

On December 2, Alvaradospoke with his Nicaraguan

case officer. During their meeting, Alvarado asserted that
“lhe had been cofreed into admitting that his story was a

fabrication. /(CIA Doc. MEXI 7203, 12/2/63) This information

was reported to CIA headquarters by the Mexico City Station.

The Station also noted that Alvarado was to be deported to

Nicaragua where would continue Alvarado's interroga-

tion. (Ibid.)*/~ by hei inal

On December 3, Ambassador Mann cabled the State Depart-

=A GA Gh GE GA GA “QS SS EA UE USA

ment reporting that Alvarado_had retracted his statements to

the Mexican authorities. Mann noted that Alvarado's story

* An FBI memorandum states in part:
As of 11/30/63, Alvarado was being held by Mexican authori-
ties on the charge that he illegally entered Mexico. Al-
varado, in his statement to Mexican authorities, advised
that he had entered Mexico without a Mexican visa and after
bribing a Mexican Immigration Inspector. (FBI File 105-02555-
656, 12/3/63)

Classification:

204480

| Classified by derivation: ___

A



LF LF LF LF LY LY LF LF

Classification: _

y é (This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Soo

was still flawed by his placement of Oswald in the Embassy

on September 18 and his contention that he had telephoned

the American Embassy in Mexico City prior to the assassina-

tion to report his observations at the Cuban Consulate on
g September 18th.*
Thus, the record tends to support the conclusion that
6 ‘pivarado had not telephoned the Embassy during late September
\1963 as he had alleged. Fu
/ The Mexico City Station cabled CIA headquarters on
December 3 noting Mann's cable to the Staté Department about
Alvardo's retraction of his confession. The Station also
noted Mann had recommended that a polygraph operator be
sent to Nicaragua to examine Alvarado. Jteta Doc. MEXI 7209,
3/63) CIA headquarters responded stating that Alvardo
should be polygraphed prior to his deportation to Nicaragua

and that the Mexican authorities should be contacted to arrange

* Regarding Alvarado's alleged telephone calls to the Ameri-
can Embassy prior to the assassination, an FBI memorandum

“log" for late September 1963 failed to disclose
any evidence that any such calls were received
from Alvarado. Interviews of switchboard operators
also failed to reveal any information which would
corroborate Alvarado's alleged telephone calls.
(FBI file 105-82555-656, 12/3/63)./

Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

records:
fae Minute examination of the u.8. Embassy switchboard

a EA EE UT UCR lUC TE CE lUCEM.UlUC CE; CUCS..UC SEE!


SY SF LF 2 EY F 2  ~

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

eae aes

for his temporary release to CIA though.the Mexicans were
not to be informed of the motive behind his release. In
addition, a CIA polygraph operator was being sent to Mexico

City on December 4. Clarke Anderson was designated as the

_ Rfsfe

Coa Bex |

p interpreter for the polygraph sessions.* Finally, CIA head-
quarters stated that in anticipation of the polygraph examina-
é tion, Alvarado was to be well fed, rested, and not in fear
of bodily harm. As for his return to Nicaragua, the issue
g was to remain open so that the polygraph operator would
have “maximum maneuvering room." \(CIA Doc DIR 86563, 12/3/63)
From review of the record it is unclear whether the "maxi-
wall mum maneuvering room" to be given the polygraph operator im-
be

plied that Alvarado's polygraph examination was designed to

* This same cable noted that Anderson was to be used as the
interpreter so that he would be able to testify regarding
Alvarado at later hearings. Although not explicitly stated,
the hearings referred to likely were Warren Commission hear-
ings. The Warren Commission was established by Executive
Order 11130 on November 29, 1963. This date may as well
explain why greater efforts were not made to polygraph
Alvarado while in Mexican custody. The original Mexico
City Station request for polygraphing Alvarado and subse-
quent headquarters response that no Spanish-speaking poly-
graph operator was available were both made on November 28,
prior to the creation of the Commission. V(CIA Doc. MEXI (1720,
11/28/63 and CIA Doc. DIR 85667, 11/28/63) On November 28,
the question of testimony at hearings was not at issue.
Thus, the necessity of a polygraph examination might not
then have been deemed of critical importance.

Classification:

Ta GA GA YA Uh ULC E.UCLE:,DUCWAUCUCY.UCUC SUE. CUCU;

2CF182
| Classified by derivation:

i}

ye le ee ee ee


ST £2 SF £9 F 9 2 2 aT
p Classification: -

| : : :
i (This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)
oe

- 24 -
prove his story a fabrication. However, the possibility
cannot be dismissed due to CIA headquarters earlier stated

conviction that Alvarado had fabricated his story. (See
) 2

fe
Alvarado was polygraphed at a CIA safehouse in Mexico
v
City (CIA Doc. MEXI 7280, 12/5/63) On December 5, the CIA

polygraph operator and Clarke Anderson were ante to 2 establign
Ret supe: oO by 722

y a rapport with Alvarado. reeieiaad the subject of a poly-

§ graph was not then discussed. (CIA Doc. MEXI 7267, 12/6/63)
Alvarado was polygraphed on Decmeber 6. At that time, Al-
varado stated that he trusted in the polygraph's accuracy.

calf Alvarado's response§ as recorded during the polygraph session,

4 evidenced deception. When informed of these responses, Alva-

Ss

xado retorted that he must have made “an honest mistake" in

identifying the individual he observed at the Cuban Consulate
POON

as Lee Harvey Oswald.* (cIA I Doc. 7289, 12- Yoisee also FBI
. we

file 105-82555-657) %

* During the course of his interrogation only Anderson and the
polygraph operator had access to Alvarado. At all other
times Alvarado remained in the custody of Mexican Immigration
Inspectors, pending his deportation to Nicaragua. In addition,
during the course of his polygraph session, although not
known to Alvarado, a CIA technician tape-recorded the questions
and responses \(FBI file 105-82555-1338).\ Consequent to
Alvarado's polygraphing, Anderson notified FBI headquarters

Ba fi

and commented: se pert

par

(continued on bottom of page 25)

Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

7 ae ee ee

a EG GR TZ! BA UT T!_ UC RUC EEC. UC EE UC YER


ME EOE EES ES

Classification: _

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Eee ieee

a The tape recordings were subsequently made available

i y

Gs the CIA to the FBI

After being informed of the results of Alvarado's

polygraph, CIA headquarters directed the. Mexico City Station

to avoid any action which would induce Alvarado to reassert

his original story. As a result, the CIA requested both

the Mexican and Nicaraguan auto to avoid any puni-

tive treatment of Alvarado. deta Doc. DIR 87666, 12/7/63)
Alvarado was returned to Managua, Nicaragua on Decem-

ber 8, 1963. (CIA Doc. MEXI 7289, 12/7/63)\/

AK

Pra

UWwhile writer not qualified to interpret polygraph results,
Alvarado's insistence that he saw person identified by him

as Oswald at Cuban Consulate on or about September 18 last
would seem to clearly indicate fabrication. * VFBI file
105-82555-657, 12/6/63) (See also CIA Doc. MEXT 7289, 12/7/63)"

Classification:

en eee

| Classified by derivation: ____

” Oe ee ee

6
p
p
p
§
6
4
6
”
fp
6
“4



(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
~ 26 -
HSCA Conclusions
The record reviewed by this Committee, as set forth
above, supports the following conclusions:

1) Immediately following President Kennedy's assassina-
tion the possibility of Cuban involvement was given
serious consideration by United States government re-
presentatives in Mexico City. Cuban complicity was
of particular concern to the American Ambassador,

Thomas Mann. His suspicions were based upon Oswald's

past contacts with both the Cuban and Soviet Consulates
in Mexico City, the allegations of Gilberto Alvarado
Ugarte, and suspect conversations between the Cuban
President Dorticos and the Cuban Ambassador to

Mexico Armas. Because of Mann's immediate posture

“he intesvesiGd-~-hémeel£ inte-the United States in-

vestigation of Oswald's activities in Mexico City.

Both CIA and FBI representatives in Mexico City had

: that his efforts only further complicated an already
complex situation. Therefore, CIA and FBI representa-
tives in Washington, D.C. were able to impress upon.

the State Department, particularly Alexis Johnson,

Classification:

2001183

Sa GG. UE-..UlCUCUCYE;!..!UC( CSE CUCE].CUCGMElUlUCES.CEE,.CUCSCUC UZ

| Classified by derivation:

é to contend with the Ambassador and probably felt



| mn ee eh :

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

eae iy aes

that Mann was not in charge of the investigation

and should be so informed. It is most likely, as
a result, that Mann's statement to this Committee
that his efforts to investigate the possibility of
a Cuban assassination conspiracy were prematurely
cut off reflect the instructions he \received pan

@
his superiors that the FBI was in charge of Mexico

pins
city investigation necessarily implying to Mann that

FBI representatives in Mexico City received instruc-

tions to cut off investigations of possible Cuban in-
volvement in the assassination. But it is the Com-
mittee's Pre slevrul that both the CIA and FBI were
subject to political considerations created by the
extraordinary circumstances surrounding the assassina-
tion. In particular, Mann's request that Cuban di-
plomatic personnel be arrested created an issue
pregnant with serious consequences, at—the-very~teast,

1 without substantive evidence to support such action,

creating-a-strain upen the relationship between

eCL14S0 Classification:

he was not. However, the Committee has found no f

| Classified by derivation; ___

/ evidence to support Mann's contention that CIA and

MaMa Tae ee.



‘
~
p.
p
f

4 LY LF LF £9 9 LF 9 £7

2)

§

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

ogee

the Governments of Mexico and the United States, iar
wok Pui? beet PA BRA UeLCe!

The record does reflect that both CIA and FBI re-

presentatives in Mexico City fully cooperated dur-
ing the course of the investigation of Alvarado's
allegation. Nevertheless, the Committee review of
FBI and CIA files tend$to show that by November 27,
1963, prior to Alvarado's interrogation by Mexican
authorities, FBI and CIA doubted Alvarado's vera-
city. As a result, the subsequent investigation of
bog ne ees
Alvarado was colored by the CIA and FBI i
that Alvardo was a fabricator. Whether this
stance ultimately affected the resolution of Al-
varado's allegation cannot today be determined.
The record further reflects that Ambassador Mann,
following Alvarado's polygraphying by eta-end.EBL,
reports on December Ginueeuioy with the FBI and
CIA position that Alvarado was a fabricator. How-
over, Ambassador Mann persisted in his belief,
though not supported by the evidence, that the Cuban
government was in some manner connected to the

assassination of President Kennedy.

Classification:

| Classified by derivation: ___

Con bos

ye ee ee

x

Me ER eB Re See ea w=


a

: Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

iD Gite

3) From FBI and CIA files reviewed, the record tends
to show that the FBI and CIA investigation in
Mexico ‘City was subject to some jurisdictional
uncertainty. Whereas, with regard to the Alvarado
investigation, it was the FBI's initial stance

| that this was a ©IA matter, the CIA did not become

actively involved in resolution of the issue until

it had received authorization to do so from’ the

FBI. However, this concern of proper jurisdictional
authority does not now appear to have impeded in

any manner the substance of the investigation

undertaken by both the FBI and CIA.

4) Et would have better served the expeditionis resolu-
tion of Alvarado's allegation had Alvarado been sub-
ject to.a.polygraph examination prior to December 6,
1963. Such an examination might well’ have helped to
resolve Alvarado's contentionthat Oswald was in Mexico
on September 18, 1963. As the record indicates, Os-
wald's presence in New Orleans on September 18 has

never been definitely established. However, based

upon the sum of evidence reviewed by this Committee,

Classification:

201450

| Classified by derivation:

NS =, =.


4 ae a EE :

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

- 30 -

Alvardo's allegation was thoroughly investigated,
resulting in the ultimate conclusion that Alvarado's

allegation was indeed fabricated.

20. P4183 Classification:

De OS OO oe

| Classified by derivation:
