# 180-10142-10070

## Page 1

180-10142-10070

(This fore is to be dod for metarial extracted

293

to alert him that the conmittee would request the Mexi-

can officials to make Silvia Duran available in Washing-

ton for an HSCA hearing. Mr. Howard explained that

once we had permission from the Mexican government, the

State Department would insure that she was in Washington

when necessary.

At 11:00 a.m. i August

9, 1978, Committee staff

members met with Dr. Jesus Yañes and Ciprianio Martinez

Novoa. Mr. Yañes told Committee staff members that

Ciprianio Martinez Novoa, the Mexican agent in charge,

vould try to aid us in all our interviews. Mr. Martinez

then briefed the Committee

staff members on their up-to-

date progress:

Oscar Contreras Lartigue had been located and pre-

interviewed by Mr. Martinez in Tampico, Mexico. DEThe Cummittee

vould fly to Tampico on Friday, August 11, 1978 at 7:35

a.m. to interview him.*

Noe W. Palomares had been located and could be

interviewed during the afternoon of Thursday, August 10,

1978 at his office, Cerrada de la Presa 4. His phone

number, 595-0891, was made available to the Committee:

June Cobb Sharp received a tourist permit, nunher

Classification:

3700311210010

Classifiar ly derivation:

---

## Page 2

assification:

(his form is to be used for material extracied

from CiA:- controlied documents.)

294

72781, on June 27, 1947. She entered Mexico through

Nuevo Lardo, Texas.

She requested but was denied

permission by the Mexican government to represent the

magazine, Modern Mexico. On June 21, 1948, she re-

ceived a courtesy permit, number 25556. She disappeared

in 1954

and never returned to Mexico.

The Committee staffers did not tell the Mexicans

that the House Select Committee on Assassinations had

evidence from review of June Cobb's 201 file that she

was in Mexico in the Sixties.

Eunice Odio Infante, a Costa Rican, received a

three-month tourist permit from the Mexican government

on February 9, 1964. She remained in Mexico, illegally

residing at Nacas-45-a, until 1972. She applied to

write for the Excelsior magazine on many different oc

casions, but was rejected every time. In 1972, Ms.

dio married a Communist painter, Rudolfo Sanabria Gon-

zalez and moved to Rio Neba-16 Apartment 40.

On May 24,

1972, Ms. Odio was found dead in her bathtub. The offi-

cial presiding at her autopsy concluded that Ms. Odio

had poisoned herself.

Emilio Carballido Fontanes was in Caracas, Venezuela,

on vacation and scheduled to return to Mexico in early

Glassification:

Clousified by derivation:

VARY

---

## Page 3

invisibill

dinicia"

Classicalion: a

This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA--contralled documents.)

295

September. His address is Constituyentes 207. His

phone number is 515-8345.

consuelo Esperon's personnel record in Mexico

could not be located. When the Mexican officials in-

quired about her at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City ]

Ap prior to thi committee's prip. no one at the ofrice

remembered that she had worked there. Committee staff

members were told that Esperon was probably dead. No

basis was given for the Mexican government's conclusion.

Carlos Jurado j. Delmar was born in Cuba on

He entered Mexico July 1, 1965 and

taught(Graphics ani Art at U.N.A.M. Juntil January 1,

1968 when he disappeared. The Mexican officials assume

that he returned to Cuba.

1218

General Jesus Jose Clark Flores died in the early

1970's.

1211

Ernesto Lehfeld Miller, Academic Coordinator at

the School of Interior Design, had not yet been located.

Luis Alberue Suoto lives at Michelet #7, Apartment

#301, Colonia Aneura, Mexico City. His phone number is

545-9947.J The landlady at his apartment explained to

Classification:

2.1419

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 4

Cessificotion:

(This form is to be used for moterial extracted

from ClA--controlied documends.)

the Mexican officials that Mr. Alberue had left town

hurriedly on Monday, August 7, 1978. Mr. Martinez,

wishing to know when he returned, had placed a piece of

scotch tape on the bottom right edge of his door. Mr.

Martinez explained that he checked it every four hours

and would notily us if alberuo freturned before ve left.

Manuel Calvillo did not live at Cuahtemoc 877-5

as the Committee had stated. The landlady for the past

twenty-five years at the apartments told Mr. Martinez

that Manuel. Calvillo had never resided there. Committee

staff members explained that Calvillo went by a pen name

which would be forwarded to the Mexican officials the

following morning.

When Committee staff members inquired whether

Ms. Silvia Tirado Bazan could testify at an HSCA hearing,

the Mexican officials stated that they would have an

answer for the staffers by Friday morning. The Mexican

officials explained that they would have to speak to

her to insure that she was willing to travel

to Washing-

ton.

On Thursday, August 10, 1978, at 11:00 a.m. the

Committee staff members met with Dr. Jesus Yanez,, Agent

Ciprianio Martinez Novoa, Captain Florentino Ventura

Classification:.

Classified by derivarion:

---

## Page 5

Casshection:

This forn is to be used for material extrocted

from ClA--controlled documents.)

297

Gutierrez and Attorney General Licensiado,

Manuel Calvillo's "pen name" was given to the Mexicans

who

stated that they would check it with the landlady

at his alleged apartment building.

Committee staffers returned to their hotel room

with Agent Ciprianio Martinez Novoa after the meeting.

Agent Martinez attempted without success to telephone

Oscar Contreras Lartigue to inform him of our visit.

At 3:30 p.m., Agent Martinez finally reached Mr. Contreras'

child who informed him that Mr.. Contreras was not in

Tampico. He had traveled to Mexico City for a Partido

Republicano Institucional convention. When Agent Mar-

tinez asked the child if he knew where his father was

staying in Mexico City, he responded that he did not.

Agent Martinez explained to the child that he would call

at a later time to speak to his mother.

Agent Martinez telephoned Noe W. Palomares at 4:00

p.m. and arranged an interview for 6:30 p.m. that even-.

ing. Mr. Martinez asked Committee staff members to

meet him at his office at the

Procuraduria General at

6:00 p.m.

cent

Classinication:

7017

Clessified by derivation:

---

## Page 6

"iassification;

¿This forma is to be used for materio! extrociad

from ClA--controlled documenis.)

298

At 6:00 p.m., August 10, 1978, Committee staff

members met Agent Ciprianio Martinez at the Procuraduria

General. Martinez then drove the HSCA representatives

to Mr. Palmoares' office. At 6:30 p.M., Committee

1270

staff members interviewed Noe w. Palomares.

(See Noe

# Palomares interview write up.)

Following the interview

Agent Martinez returned

to the Maria Isabel Hotel with Committee staff members.

He attempted to

reach Mrs. Contreras telephonically at

Tampico twice without success. At 9:45 p.m., he finally

contacted her.

Mrs. Contreras told Agent Martinez

that Mr. Oscar Contreras had told her that he would

try to get a room at either the Hotel Regis or Hotel

San Francisco. Mrs. Contreras explained that since

there were a few conventions scheduled in Mexico City

that weekend she could not assure that he would be at

either. Mrs. Contreras told Agent Martinez that she

would notify him if her husband should call.

Mi. Martinez called both hotels and niquired whether

Oscar Contreras Lartigue was registered. He was not

registered at either; they were completely booked up.

classification:

Classified by darivation:

---

## Page 7

Classification:

This form is to be used for material extrocted

from Cla--controlled doguments.;

299

Ar. Martiner attempted to reach by telephone Silvia

Tiardo Bazan

at her home to ask her whether she would

be wil-

ling to travel

to Washington to testify at a HSCA hearing

and to ask if she knew where Mr. Ernesto Lehfeld Miller

could be located. She was not at home, however.

Agent Martinez explained that he would attempt to

locate Oscar Contreras

Lartige

at the hotel where

(Institutional Republican Party

the Partido Republicano Institucional was holding its con-

vention early the following morning; after which he would

meet the staff members at 9:30 a.m. at their hotel room.

At 9:45 a.m., August 11, 1978, Agent Martinez

met Committee staffers at their hotel room and explained

that he was unable to locate Mr. Contreras Lartigue at

the convention. Mr. Martinez then left to check the

whereabouts

Mr. Alberue suoto and silvia tirado Bazan.

At 12:30 p.m.,

August 11, 1978, Agent Martinez re-

turned to the Committee staff members' hotel room. He tele-

phoned Mrs. Contreras in Tampico who stated that her husband

had not telephöned her since she had last spoken to Agent

Martinez.

At 1:50 p.m., another agent, Honorio Escondon,

telephoned Agent Martinez at the Committee staffers' hotel

room to inform him that tiris Alberue Suotomust be back in

town because the scotch tape placed at the base of his

Classification:

20

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 8

Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documenis.)

300

entranceway door was no longer in place. At 1:55 p.m.,

Agent Martinez telephoned Luis Alberue Sutoto.] During the

phone conversation, Alberue denied that he had

worked at

the cuban Embassy in the sixties, stated that he knew

nothing about the assassination, and declined the Committee

staff members' request to interview him.

At 2:00 p.m., August 11, 1978, Agent. Martinez tele-

phoned Silvia Duran. Agent Martinez then gaze the tele-

phone to Committee staffer Lopez. Mr. Lopez ask Ms. Tirado

whether she would be willing to testify sometime in Septem-

ber at a Committee hearing in Washington; s-e answered

affirmatively. She stated that September 13ch, 14th and

15th would not be "good days" because the lexican Revolution

celebration would be taking place and she was a planner and

participant. When Mr. Lopez asked Ms. Tiraio if

she knew

Mr. Ernesto Lehfeld Miller's phone number, she stated that

she did not., but she stated that if we ter=shoned her ex-

husband Horatio at either 516-0398 or 515-==21, he would

be able to help us.

•.":

At 2:15 p.m., Committee staffer Lo=== telephoned

Horatio Duran, who gave him Ernesto Lehfe:= Miller's of-

fice phone number, 548-4839. At 2:20 p.m.: Lopez telephoned

Mr. Miller and arranged a meeting for 9:0. =.m. that evening.

Classification:

2000433

Lizasified by derivation:

---

## Page 9

Classification:

50

This form is to be use

for moterial extracted

from ClA-controlled documenis.)

At 2:30 p.m., Agent Martinez telephoned Capitan

Ventura to report on his progress, pertaining to his work

with the HSCA. When Martinez told Ventura that he had

located Alberue, Ventura asked him if hè was alone. When

Agent Martinez lied and stated that he was alone, Ventura

told him that he should under no circumstances allow us

to interview Alberue. When Agent Martinez completed his

phone call, he said, "I don't understand why nobody wants

you to talk to him." ]

At 9:00 p.m, August 11, 1978, fommittee statters

interviewed Ernesto Lehfeld Miller

(see Ernesto Lehfeld

Miller interview vrite-up.)

At 11:15 a.m., August 12, 1978, Committee staffer

Lopez called Luis Alberue Suoto at his home. When Mr.

Lopez identified himself, Mr. Alberue inmediately stated

that he knew nothing. He further stated that he never worked

for the Cuban Embassy. When Lopez explained to him that

employees at the Cuban Embassy had stated that he had been

employed there, Mr. Suoto hung up.: Mr. Alberue's voice

quivered throughout the short talk.

At 11:45 a.m., Silvia Tirado called Lopez and stated

that she had thought all night about travelling to Washington

She said

she had seen a report in the newspapers in which

Azcue had stated that the man who visited the Cuban Consulate

Classification:

21093"

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 10

Classification:

302

This form is to be used for noterial extracted

from ClA--controlled documents.)

in 1963 was not Lee Harvey Oswald. She stated that Azcue

had only seen Oswald once while she had seen Oswald "at

least three times.

When Lopez said, "At least three

three times

times?" Ms. Tirado stated unher times, you know" she

Ms. Durain

further stated that if she testified in Washington and

the Committee concluded that she was lying she would be

crucified when she returned to Mexico. Mr. Lopez reassured

her and explained that when he returned to Washington he

would send her a long letter explaining procedures.

At 12:05 p.M., Agent Martinez met the Committee

staff members at the airport. He stated that Contreras

and Calvillo had not been located.

The Committee staffers

gave Martinez a list of questions to ask Oscar Contreras

Lartigue. Agent Martiner stated that he would mail the

results of the interview to Lopez at the Committee offices

in Washington. The Committee never received any interview

reports from the Mexican government.

The Committee staff members left Mexico City at

1:55 p.m. and arrived at Washington's Dulles Airport at

10:35 p.m.

Clossification:.

2000233

Classified by derivation:

---

