# 180-10143-10356

## Page 1

180-10143-10356

Palmer

7/12/78

SEGRES

Tile Review

SECRET

General Council

Orlands Bocch

0. 12 del. 196.7

Letter D I. Walter Gagley

11111274

Trom: Sacsence R. Houstow

Re -electronic ourseillance of Bolindo Tasteres

Cesar Diondado of Custome said he + other

agente employe I tranomette I recerier & monitor.

a meeting in how 1766 at which Inaspered

was present. Ine of Disadados informants

Carried transmitter into meeting + listening porta

were located in automobiles nearly: hussadado

had received authority o use this supment

from Gerald Batimer who had for pernicion

from Customs in D.Cx US. Attorney's office

24 Delay 1962.

1804033

Memorandus (unsigned.).

Subject: Estimate of Damage Which Could Accrue

I C/A manie Through Prosceition of the

Rolando Tarferror astian Iussion Group,

Recent news stories about CIA. Connection

with Pan American Foundation & Inversity of

Miame o recruitment of Culaw. Pilote in the

longs could excily trigger publicty with

mevitable forus on the south Campus of

Miami e on the Miami Station Fover ofin

For ite

10143-1035

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

7/12/18 Palmer

OGE

Orlaudo Bosch

SECDET

['accused" successor, the

The long atanding ammoisty of eertain

epile organizations against the CIA Could tenget

best accused t attack CA I gain acquittal,

blackew the CIA, o epest presume on UiS. for

poling his titude could ales he applied

Islands Boack twice sceordeig Soner

тето

dated 3 may 1967 to General Councel

from Tal 8. Willanion II

8 May 19,67

1$ E11275

Ltr: 7 p. Walter Yeagley -AAG

Thom: Laurence R. Houstow- Jon Conal, CIA

of all the persons woolved in the Tami

handing trial, charged with solation of Are

Control det x Prentrality Act, only Orlando

- Buch was of operational interest & the

Agency, None has ever beew the bulgeit

of electronic curvellance

1604037

Aplando. Otero Hernandez.

_Wiliam Clay, public defender in. Dade County;

defendeng Oero on bombing Charges. Adircid C/A

defence witnever will implicate CIA and

Ted Sorenon in bombings in Miami area,

Steles murder a Cir Cubana explosis.

---

## Page 3

7/12/78

Palmer

SECRET

OGe

Carlos Iternandez

Bumbaut - no notes.

Alpha 66/ Torriente Group - no notes. all

1970 information.

11.61276

SECRET

1904035

---

