# 180-10142-10087

## Page 1

180-10142-10087

The Marren commission and

mexico:

I Info from Cable Chrono, Osualdi

Mexibile and.wx-7241.

A December 21, 1963.

1. DIR 9046626(420-75))

State Department. Asks

1 DIR 97829(498-204) = NOTE: The

communication chrono was

1 examined us to lan.

date.).

10142-10087

---

## Page 2

2

This cable reports that Helme

appeared before the Harren

ommission on 28 January

re what the Commissio

expectat gee the sa

jire.com

mission a repoi

n hee Osivalds activitie

ind techin

2. MEXI 8008

response to DIR 97829

hig + Ro: Scolt

stant the nation tate

the info, including that

from the soviet & mbassy

[tapes, was reported to

---

## Page 3

3

how

immation say haricas

-BI reports (hs indicates anal

that the CIA would have

than dia destro donace

Phillyes,

(503-210)

#1: 1725(corntral 133) -

tong Senates that

to Mexi on 8 april

puffine nature testent

of effort of U.S. investigating

agenciesabroad

b. investigative effort of

Mexican authorities

C. Consult 45 + Mexi author-

ities res: fusther investi-

gation if any is determined

necessarg.

---

## Page 4

CIA FIleS

#l Barney Baker

Redaest.. a7 / Feb 78

DDO

4l26/28

#4 Thomas EiDavis

Request 2) Feb 78

DDO 1106128

minuteman file

Os -

19 April 1978

1w.6/28

Louis Kutner

06C.-

Request 14 Feb.1978

OLC

R: 1839 - 000

Roger.

5441

Dama

Rich

DIcle

Rininger.-o6c-

---

## Page 5

Summay

6/29/78

(KD MANGO] SuppoRt (Vol 7)

[50-6-32/2)

9 Jul 1957 - 6 Aug 1968

nothina batween 10/20/32

(ROmANGO) Ops (VolI)

{50-6-32/3)

22/6

[ROMANGO] IS (LIFEAT]

Not per tAiNANt

---

## Page 6

Barney Baker.

(201-242862)

L.Wizelman

6/28

---

## Page 7

5: 80.

Mavemant / Nat. Liberation

Raul Perégra + Guillemo Ruz

Artender 1.

Albers to lege s the

nut... 2

bull flaky too tong

but he wines hoe igit if he'd

gme to hor. Ta

---

## Page 8

Rewrite... our interview

Mexican Report

10.

pages talement..

compace..

+

with

Finish We fA related

then Rewrte.

visits to

OSWALD

Done

Sectims

Disrepuncies

---

## Page 9

Carswell

Werbell

A00, 0E

OGE

Lou

Phillips

Melliam Harveys

000, 25,060, 0F,

OF,

DoRis 1958

B, OGC, 00

wired all bust of

Jim

McDonAld

06G.

Dick

RININGES

1104

LIndA

1385

IIl1064

---

## Page 10

DAr

Summary of bay of files on

WURABBIT]

0z

I

Troveat dealt with /l

files prom as cantino

records.

II

statements

wasa

IV

editorials, eto to foreign

subscribers.

Box # 3: financial records.

Box #4 fine

incial records.

Folder 206, Box *1 "Operations"

ZiR/

10

---

## Page 11

4/3/78

HARDWAY

summa all'@KOPERALLAISON.

1R BLESSbile: 811/61-8/38/64

The Compan

suraeger

put concerned

2

4

oats He is

backhe no he is ethe

the author of the memo to

two other Cuband who were

testing on to mello

says. ZRBLESS/1

subjarojest of /WUBONBON.]

---

## Page 12

4/3/78

HARDWAY

file

liest Poet leaguet

dated 6/26/63 describes the

2

sub-

palate get one to le

Project Action form dated

8/28k63 signed buy Karamessinas

approves a $65,000 budget

for WITAry for the fiscal

year. 1963 (puly) to 1964 (fune).

Memo dated 3/17/44. to ODP

that acy naget quests

increased to $80,000.

"The requested increase is

needed.toca.corer.an.unan-

ticipated developmental charge

un connection with an

individe done mercan

3 IN

12

---

## Page 13

2

---

## Page 14

LOCATOR: 1112.

!

stack Novel

pACkA

foldeR

ct

KENNEdy ASSASSINATION- GATTISON- 196>

Nates fram review of Harriso

Pile, 8h8/78, DL1

Memo from Donovan E. Pratt,

allatched routing o record

sheet- note brosn X. G.

Rocoa to OGd.

parat: "He regarded serge

tie chen that as pa, cally

this is an active case of far

as we are concerned. Hears

certain that de Mohenschildt

receir a sail bearing then

that case. If not, Mr Osbourne

ov.mv.Birch@'Neal.confill

14

---

## Page 15

NotES

interview

9:45 Am

63

RDER?

8/22/78

letter

5/9/29

retired - Herndon.

am

CoA ah division-.

1.00

Left miani it-s one

CA Suidance, support, project

Mo spojects reviewed lay

---

## Page 16

2

used

use of more than one alias

probably = common but

could happen.

alias guesses 3004.7 not

all registered

200 aliases "dam

o way to keep track

12/51 began

6/30/78

prior to 1960.

= but sturges.

at IMWAVE in change of

prop ops

---

## Page 17

antity agent Cad audangle

didnt pale wante

Roberto Expin dia

Castro's wife?,

commercial broadcasts

from Miami on bought

ime-quen

guidance

dance let geen prete

omna do DP by cave

+ Phone

~dail

came down quite often

often

get at penalt an

formal leadership.

11

---

## Page 18

gllifts

4

control overgroups

reletive term- mutualit

of interest - respect for 43.

I their hope for the future

most sincere patriot

DRE

knew dealt @header

dont call matin ein

was.

personall

a dozens of Cuban cont

media, labor, students,

women, política

contacts.

contacte started ley hin

Sily contacts one

o(Esjein.)

---

## Page 19

5

not. much.coord @tunt-

tealt mostli

met Huntly @ bemaler

Knight]- doesn't recall

r. Phillips

ng ma

never met agents together

with Phillips

never recalls hearing

any of Phillips

Pillite to eat a ge

was discussions @Phillies:

of discussion @Philliss.

hinks 10 was

DG, left before shackely

ved.

(RAy O'MIARA?

maun.com

~ was to keep

Phillips informed.

tried to solve problems himsel

---

## Page 20

???

if he could.

dending agents intor datin

dichit work @(hanfenio)

ut remembers

hasn't head of Pancho Naraids

uncle Jony. - may

how

worked for one of groups

wathout employe sow him

gali or eyes that he

periods do time

periods hitin when

had problems.

2°

---

## Page 21

7

Dave.

most all pro lot oat d

miami -

Dave out of D.C.

never met Diag Lang) =

FRD also did prop wo

consulting.

sure he met. @ PtH but doesn't

recall specifics.

did not keep hing trifed

operate sets of gas.

ew heard of fiorini until

hit papers.

Hemming. heard

new dave Morales) from before

Miami

21

---

## Page 22

SESRET

-he-

in a guns for heroin deal

Dard A Phillips:

itive components)

12/1/510 2/28/518 contractagent

125:152.

731533000

314/54

1|31,55

ImployEr.

1144/550

2/1a15 ls

stAff employes

00/30

2/2/56 t08/13/58

8/19/58 to 3/13/60

3/14/60 - to retire

1960 1966

stAff agEnt

cott ng empty.

MExicò

in 1963 was in charge af

Mitchall L WerBell III

try to get several hatin,

imerican yover

recognize a claments to

SECRET

4°

---

## Page 23

0G was in Havana on TDY

657 mayte.

Duned old contacts from

Davana.

Renew who Sit was disked

ADP

Pliat it do trouble shooting

Doesn't remember DP usin

пате. Bishop.

frozen confront,

well mayueddid.c

dant remember.".

Carowell photo.-.

no ID

looks a little like Rosi

ren!

no IDow.n

22

---

## Page 24

9

shite doest lock like

doesnt know Bethel

members.na

Rishop heard ime of

Can

Companda locanit

ver met Shackel

le became chipel until

Reynolds-retired

e hits a check

856. ys old.

D.P.

endly offer he left

close.

OP probably used old assets

international reps.

23

---

## Page 25

"How

10

after BoP doesnt know

extent or nature of prop

ops.

(Merson, familia

no memory of use

C-A handled by Phillips

radio

Dest Maimi News

was used to place articles

D. P...

would have been on

who used him,

(Portell Villa)-familiar

~met

[Glidit use i knowledge

Ac. - fanilian but not

connection

24

---

## Page 26

CFC- after.c,?

was it in Mexi?

connects (ArENs) + CFC

to MEXI

but (0'GI not involved

Vanellout slightly familion

" aware of use

Carbonella Macaros

rever beard of Cellumo

tantasma

no Kennedy prop aware.

But probably Cubans

Never heard of alpha ll

25

---

## Page 27

12

comment and rosay, but

caula l

- no pecalled problems

dont call idiot it a

regardl to Bender but

stration where.

an't recall say awould

hate been said he pist

isnt.sur

D. G. handled some of Benders

agents prior to Hunts arial

too agent

is handle pally gau

very small

did not know hesnick.

26

---

## Page 28

seAketti.

6+2 - M. elesk

n. desk respors

3 awareness of op

27

---

## Page 29

Hardway

3/16/78

• from

vouchers

4/28/60

too truel advanced)

HAVA

5/16/61 Travel Voucher covers

periad 317/60 to 3/11/60

lists two "funds ano

transportation tickets

adianced to traveler

for Havand indone

dated 8/31 Headquarters.

Mashan in aparently

Neste sau

* Vest to Washington,

travela ya because

2c0 918109

Mr March. Left Kery

2%

---

## Page 30

CO

Wests march, aviving

D.C. !! march

12/15/61

request bor advanc

travel; D.C. to Meric

City, to has angeles

and return.

10/3/63

Request for advance af

Funds to cover per

did ay apposimately

ticht to plane

Miami in itinerary

Inbo from computer listing

of voucher information;

1957-19651

5/21/59

6/9/5-9

1/16/59

816/5-9

10/14/59

COME 10114/59

5/11/5-9

TRY DC NY

TVL ADVANCE

TDY CAR NY

TDY FLA

MIA HQS TOY

TDY HQS

TOY WH

29

---

## Page 31

CONRDENTAL

4/28/40

3/21/60

12/15/61

TRY HQS ACCTG.

TDY MIAMI

ADU TDY MEXICO.

CONFEERNTAL

30

---

## Page 32

COMMORTAL

Domestic Bravel-Hunt

on 4/24/42 and 27/25/62

Domestic Travel-to NY. to

meet with AWBoNBonland

KULHUSTLER? @M 1/30/63-1/31/63.

02

same.for. 2/14/430

same for o/A 3/14and15/63

same for

0/x 4/11/63

dravel Order-same reason

5/1/63 - Voucher attatched

puts date at 5/5/63

same for 415163 + 618163

7111/63+7112165

11

+161634817163

COMER TAL

31

---

## Page 33

COMERDEN

.1l

Bequet for advance ab

same purpose,

9126-27/63

Travel Ordert Noucher

10/23/43 (order)

10/24/43lvoucher

Order 181126-27163

voucher 91826163

Voucher 12/5/63

S.P.

des

SAME IN

Jan, Fet, march, ayail

CONsult

0z

[GEASSAULT 3

OffiCAS

VIV

---

## Page 34

0002318

SECREA

Mitchell Livingston HerBelle

aw August 4,1959. VerBell'

first contacts. with the

SECRET

33

---

## Page 35

questions -

whats an RID filer! -

requeska (AMS PEL La)

L AMLUNCH-17

Sensitive Doc! Input Reccra QuEGA} 13907;.

5 Feb 64 From RIDIAN.

@XAA 7-17443..

24 Feb 64

When document

34

---

## Page 36

os(Ju)

ORID0

JADDO (SHOALE

copy of llan bardway's nott

SECRET

2/13/78

Persadic tile Scimino

Cone componant)o

Alexis Davison A Nedelys

anticle mamed one Malion

Toanias the supevaisan

a CTAS

inax

apérationis in the

Asae or

s embasse

10 7 2

Damel CarswellF after

a prete this traniel lirons

April af 1943

enlricten dentil Cuguat 1963°

Crirswell jis l', 180 lla, hais

sey enges and broun

lsonsi

Luis Posada:

1960 = member of the Frente

Revoluciananio fase a

Echera

va in Cuba

In april of 1961 he was.

trained for the Bay of Pigs

СЕРОГ!

38.

---

## Page 37

SEGRET

lantatio

in sautemala

EDn October 1961 he took an

ob with the Firestos

Libber Compan

Chiar

Ne, Atanied at That

ajo wil, March of 1963

1963- In February 21, 196

Othe tA out inter mortion

he brea

sacratic machinery

secra

so in the kettl

2nd Platoon (iegrons.

Co: B, ist Battalion, 22th

wife, Maria Concepcion

Castaneda Najeoles in Chicago.

(PDOB: 1931, Cardenas, Martanzas,

Cuba; mastied 19554 last

st., Apt: C, Hunington Park, (A.)

On Quigust the CIAgranted.

permission for an intervie

SECRET

---

## Page 38

SEBACE

1143-

al Parada Posada claim

1964a boonda leftethe

hang in Moircherith

the rankofand leutenant

Dia stambor she claimo

he

the Pan Am. Etern

Co 235 5W leth st, Miaos

He also claims to have

11965 Dm April Possida is

in Miami working as an

netobody repartest

an wher

trainin

fana

tramint instructor.

---

## Page 39

SECRET

NoTa sossida, claimo tor

In the chief.

campa hor, three sort

unspecifical years

thalanty 60s

Adolitional info:

J.

AKA: Luis Clemente CArrilEs

Bambi PaSAdA CArrilEs

BAmbi CArrilEs

JuliAN POSAdA CArrilES

JuliAN CArrilES

INCi

2. He hais, at times, listed as

references:

Carlos Porro, 395 E. Jallmadge,.

Akron, Ohio.

Antonio Parcia, 3604 5.W.

26th Terrace, Miami, Fla

Segundo Ortes, 685 Carnegie

Ave, Ahroin Chio

Dick Patterson, FBI, Akron, Ohio.

---

## Page 40

SECRET

- 5-

3

55 1265-72-13151

14. 2. 000 C-2312445

5

115 Army dossiec

5265-17-345

associates vite

heft parenthal in Miane

Nd 5506g

54104x7

Marned

dino tar be ain

excellant Marksman

Cereas Diasdado.

DOB §/1e/21, Lorado, Jeras

emplared in 1961. Has

allegedly been involveal in

a Parti

n 1967

C. Harper in 1982

SECRET

39

---

## Page 41

SEGRET

sent in epile. He hap

regiulanti

inferenti nontierea

anta chas after impersonatish

Trafficen

Oso cintes in Cuban Affairo"

scaliasa Masill

Ediand heuro Bankston

Chester Inau

AKA LochowsKi

Rolanalo Masferrar

Brice man pakes

11379 President Drive NE

Blaine Village, Mion

Labort Bayaral

Altr preph Mickem (Mackem.

00B: 12/13/37, Omaha, Nel

2609 N. Potomac

ediaro

1 Margen

Paul Bethel

Charles Hall

Robert K. Brown

SERPET

41

---

## Page 42

Hunt Summary

HArdWAY

files reviewed.

4/1/78

EPOEM- (UURABBIT) Correspondencs

folder7, Bor2,

2 (LUCRABBIT) Termination

Folder. 1, Box 1

MPS Project file ( WUPUNDIt

apo. inclicded in 64

PrAEgIR 29

Frescom Fund, IN 3" (coNDüit)

>9

(SEAmÁN's SErvicE INstituta

LA PrAsas SpANish AfCiliate) 24

29

Mere en sone ties?

and (WWTRANsitf which were

respondible for publishing

tus books each.

There was one "one time only"

aperation in 1964 FUUDSENDERF

appros idently not

SUENET

42

---

## Page 43

Operational stucture. There

was one operation that wa

primarily a develepment

wasa projeat to provide

news dervice tor boreian

sress, through

deretonit feragt fando

procurement.dn.F/63-64

ook procurement was

ande direpepate pagiestivere

theltnaedod to tnage ftonge

4. Mes Project Filz (CWÜDBONBON]

5

11

pAR.t I of 3,

" IQU) HUSTLER]

6. [WBON BON) Accountwgs Folder 24

---

## Page 44

BonBon/Operations Y.61

folder.25

ontains two memos for th

Record by Hunt. re. 8/8/6-

meetings

sURPaNOIT I Support folder 27

1OTCUWDBOUBON/Develagement +Dlans.F14

12 WUPUNDIT.) CIA Book Publishing

F- 28*29

13 (UR BONBON.] FY 65 Support

F.21

F 23+22

44

---

## Page 45

SEGRET

Mickey bolds mith opened

the interview by explaining

the release letter and the

mandate d the House Slots

boviet diction of the Merico

Ibertetner fias responsible

45

---

## Page 46

_ SECRET

remembered

That they receved all the

transcripts from all the

tayes ow the foriet embassy.

This included the spanish

and the English transcript

itthough the English

wen tonally reciesed later

indicated that

the had a working knowledge

of spa

Mo bestetner twas

responsible for regating d

46

---

## Page 47

SECRET

3

In 1963

as your not bano

cripts.were.read.dail

as a matter of routine Th

photo production was not

reviewed unless anne

Hoodpasture refered it to

the

carbon copies of the transcipt

ow. yellow paper.bstracts

from the transcripts were

or "p" files.

They were less sire but

our part salmber. (Ex: 80-00-8-0)

4?

---

## Page 48

SECRET

4

Bath

indicated that materials

Some

inglish. Mo. Bestitner?

indicated that he had a

dose working relationsh

with Boris darasaffland

reliedaw him for person-

are interest men ther

was no one else to do it

and[bestethen]

48

---

## Page 49

SECRET

- 5-

have been reported within

photo surveillance was

cataster t salad

he down for secinity

they remembered recievi

eyelit nel transcription

personality@sesments orally

49

---

## Page 50

SECRET

-6-

remember

about@swaldspeaking

indicated that this closely

with Anne soodpastine

on things of interest tade

between the Cuban and

sorret Operations.

jand bestetner ]

dicated that the

next, the trand soul t

did make stay notation

50

---

## Page 51

SECRET

==>-

about Oswaldo Russian

He said that he had never

Fordered| Jarasoft )not to

mate arenald thats.

gence, counter-espionage, etc

conversey indicated that every

The

that sent at not the

14 chery said that the

unilatera) taps were not

directed at the boveet.

Embassy but at the private

evidency of a vet al

No sistetner said that

there were no penitration

igents in either the barue

Consulate a Military

allachis ollins

said that tibeg ad not

and (bertetros)

5

---

## Page 52

SECRET

- 8-

contant with anyonide

peration other than

Boris Tarasoff; these

contacts were restricted

to social meetingo, discus.

conof. personality. eralia-

tians mid on save occasions

transcripto /inter

he was more than

they knew

and that he was chick of

Covert Action at the time.

Theu

Lady remembered that bet

Shaw as Chief of Culian

operations but were

unsure of the time. They

---

## Page 53

SECRET

-9-

would have had access to?

entens about uplis

he was close to thin Scott

I whey said that Robert os

Zambernardiffias professionally

desk. They said that the infor

Do the escold hange gone

a register interest alu:

a foreign egally would not,

53

---

## Page 54

SECRET

10

indicated that sucha

in late sum

They said that Charles of

asawanalyst in the

destian. os

wasan

outside agent to reming

of agents He worked for

was

as was boodpasture, of

and was nivolved in

the sensitive surtillaming

operations, SECRET

---

## Page 55

SECRET

wavalso

this group (bestetner?

thinks he may have ram

the photo surveillance of

the barrel compound

haw. the

phusical sunrillance team.

was.ou

technian in gerations, i

mostaf. the

natall of then

Missestetner said that

one of the conversations. He

said that the tapes were

not kept very long befor

ne

Milkestetion said that

(Fararoff,)would routinel

SECRET

55

---

## Page 56

SEERE

of.how@swald.first.come

to their attention

indicated that her memory

was that the first

information that she had

recieved about @scald

was that he was seeking

a visa. Mo. bestetner

indicated that he had

reviewed the file perio

had was from a tran-

sayet of ascalds conver-

sation with a gauro. on

They were the thouset

---

## Page 57

SECRET

-13-

did not recall

this transcripst as the

first one the saw. After

seeing the cable she sent to

HQow. 1018 she said that this.

ranicist must have freen

the one because of th

similarity of the infor ther

asked whether there wasa

reference too visa in the

conversation; she acknow.

legded that there was not

ou telegram to Mashingtor

and the bact that he was

talking to the consulate has

made.

itorous to her

Recand this transcript d

have had already

the grant a ang

Because of the since of

57

---

## Page 58

SECRET

14

into from pror tran..

scu

bestetner suggested that

someof the prior traw-

scryets may have been

unavailable because the

ere bei

testing on termonad

hansary

anot some ol the perati

indications that

cknowledged writin

had no recollection

the said, the wrote the

cable (MEXi 8453) and, at the

cama time, urote a heavo

(Sestetnen)acknowledged

---

## Page 59

SECRET

15

"p" file was in his hand.

writzine

the "p

He fifile caposened. Both

acknowledged that the

connection between the

conversations was noted

prior to the assassination.

Wher

was

isked about the paragraph

m'mexi6453 about th

photo she said that she

must have checked the

photos. She was showna

hoto ol the mmmano

said she thought that that

~ photo was chosen bro

October first but was sun

since Aswald had indicated

a photo production

from can ays tailo

59

---

## Page 60

SECRET

-16-

afor have base evened

the Hid i to Mexica

(DIR 74830).

that scott hay speculated

recirand tost after

be is and the time ne

nation regise teal had been done.

6°

---

## Page 61

SECRET

-17-

said that the

remember. but she wais

must have

filing and outing in tr

to the date set his memo

'

---

## Page 62

SECRET

18

then

the in the nable. to

M the memo

Both

He her said that it

was ver

this hady unlikely that

been discussed

with Dave Peterow ledged

not recall recievino

response to this cable. The

asked whether he had ever

heard that

to the effeat that Huma

not teasinglad

---

## Page 63

*SECRET

19

and obtained to o that

(bestetner acknowledged

justig the date of the pated

Mexi. 7014. le explained

was that the date was

September 28.

Neither Pettines man

specific details about the

been done by anne

6}

---

## Page 64

SECRET

-20=

he attir raid the ther

the conversation of 9/28

Quitthe Mexicans.?,

iritina

said that all info

available had been

reported when the 9/27

conversations, the sirst had

not been reported. He can

written

9/28/63

(Restetner acknowledge

that it would have been

very unough densiot

at least o times and not have

been picked 186855 the photo

1/MV

64

---

## Page 65

SECRET

aperation

a routine matter. He said

Soviet embassy alone is

enough to rule aut the

possibiliti

eithapera insoleng

When shown the

norenously transaribed"

transcript (sestethes)

aid that it meant

thes

read in pariss

1L Pestetner said

that it istrple le

---

## Page 66

SECRET

Fand unusual that

messines releasedl

the 10/10 DIR

No to the possibility

phaneiracy phe said

wile ow

gency involvendent

ad never

heard of kanamessine

nvolve

cable bagment @ theidio

Wes asked them not

to discuss anoth

do wha

them with an

staff that En

SECRET

606

---

