# 180-10140-10268

## Page 1

180-10140-10268

DiME. B:RITHMAITE LUNRE, CALE.

MiMISTCANëM1.IO0O.CONN.

164907-M, САТЯА

MARIUEL LA DIVINE, CHIIO

CHASLES THOME, PILAN

MAMOLO S, LAWYEI, MISH.

H0Dалі1, СосАн. РА.

(202) 221:024

Seleci Committee or Sissassinatics

CrE. Joure of Acpresentatites

2331 HOUST ORUSE DUiLDING, ANIECE

WASHINETON, D.C. 2051%

CIANG NO CBIFOTIONTO

DECLASSIACALION AND/OR

FIELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

April 5. 1978

Mr. Patrick Carpentier

Office of the Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

II44155

Dear MI. Carpentier:

In connection with its investigation into the circum-

stances surrounding the death of President Kennedy,

the Select

Committee on Assassinations requests access to 21i

file referencas

files and

pertaining to the following individuals:

1) Edward Jay Epstein

2) Marvin Kantor

3) [Charlotte Bustos

4) Annie Goodpasture.

In addition, please provide the Cormittee with access to

the following information:

5)

Any and all investigative reports prayared by E.

Howard Hunt pertaining to the John f. Kennedy assas

sination.

(These reports were not necessarily pra

pared during the period of Mr. Hunt's employment

with the CIA).

6)

The file that

was prepared by the CIA in reference to

E. Howard Hunt's alleged Watergate-clated activities.

The Committce previously requested access to all CIA files

pertaining to E. Howard Hunt in its letter to you of January 6,

However, Roger Gabrielson, of your staff, has requested

that the particular requests identified above, be put

in writing.

The Connittce would also appreciate a response from

Cis rogarding the following matters:

tha

004567

188-10140-0960

---

## Page 2

c. Patrick Carpentier

April 5, 1978

Page 2

7)

The CIA's weitten statement replying ito the cormittea's

request of february 21,

1978 for an axplanation of the

criteria. that governed

the opening of à 201 file dur-

ing the years 1958-64 was not responsive to our inquiry

because the CIA's written statement did not focus on the

relevant time period.

Accordingly, I an renewing our

request of February 21, 1978.

In the avant that there

vere no criteria governing the opening of such files

during that period, the Conmittee would appreciate a

written statement indicating that this was the case.

8) CIA document #563-810 indicates that there are 37 docu-

ments that should be in Lee Harvey Oswald's 201 file

but which are missing fron the file.

Furthermore,

this

document also indicates that there should be a machine

listing of these documents attached as part of document

#563-310, but no such listing appears in the file.

Tha

Select Committee on Assassinations requests that the

CIA provide a listing of such documents as well as a

written explanation of where those

documents are 10-

caced and

why they ao not appaar in oswald's 201 file.

Pursuant to my jetier of Decenber 27, 1977, I would like.

to note

that the document referred to ir this paragraph

is a classified docunent.

3)

after having reviewed both the documents contained in

the CIA's files on Priscilla. Johnson Motillan and the

materials that vere independently made available to her

under the Privacy Act,

it is apparent that the files

which were made available to the Commitiee did not in-

clude HILINGUAL materials.

As the Cormittee has

already requested ali information contained in your

on the individuals who are the subjects of our

requests, please review the files that you have pre-

Viously made available to us for the purpose of ensur-

ing that all of the information pertaining to the

individuals involved has, in fact, been provided.

Finally, the Committee would like to interview all persons

Station for that period. The Committee requests that the CIA

---

## Page 3

Mr. Patrick Carpenties

April 5, 1978

Page 3

either make these persons available for our

staff to intervior

or provide their last known address so that we can contact thein

directly.

Thank you for your continuing cooperation.

Sincerely,

M Nobut Blaties

G. Robert Blake/

Chief Counsei and Director

GRB : bwa

---

