180-10147-10188

: (0

‘Dorel QKAD ;
. « NW
COMPILATION OF CONCLUSIONS AND OTHER as FROM
MEXICO CITY REPORT (Lopez)
Note: I thought that the following excerpts would

be useful for the reviewers. I have attempted
to organize the excerpts by subject<

CIA_as "Investigative Agency"

When President John F. Kennedy-was assassinated on November 22, 1963,
the United States investigative agencies--FBI, CIA, Secret Service,etc.
--were asked to investigate the assassination. 351

Silvia Duran y

The Central Intelligence: Agency had relied on Duran"s statements

but had deleted Duran's description of Oswald as blonde and short. 706/
It had also excised Duran's statement=="The only aid she could give
Oswald was advising that he see the Soviet Consul, and calling the
person in charge of that office" which alluded to Oswald asking for
some type of aid at the Cuban Consulate. 707/ In addition, Ms- Duran’s
strong statement "He never called her back” 707a/ was changed to

"she does not recall whether or not Oswald later telephoned her

at the Consulate number that she gave him.707b/ Had the statements
been included, the Warren Commission's conclusions would .not haye
seemed as strong. 7 suerte BET 8.

The Committee found no evidence in this: file review that..Silvia
Duran was either an American or Mexican intelligence agent.)
....the Committee has interviewed most of the Mexico City Station
employees about the possibility. Only David Phillips, Chief of
Covert-Action and the Cuban Section in the Mexico City. Station in
1963, a position which made him very knowledgeable, Soe une
Peo 564. -.

Duran was possibly an agent or source.

THIS COPY IS NOT
FOR RELEASE,

AS-SANITIZED: “°
iy

10147 - /0/88


a . oy

(
Another CIA oo who worked on an "Oswald
ber or early October of 1975 dealing

fask Force" in late Septem

with Freedon of Information Act jaw suits brought against the
Agency concerning the files on Lee Harvey Oswald, stated that he
believed that Ms. Duran may have been a source of information for
either the CIA or the Mexicans. 77/ 7 - 367

Mr. Hidalgo, professing not to remember all the details, stated
that he thought that Duran was a Cuban intelligence agent.) 368

With no corroborating evidence for Mr. Hidalgo's memory, the
Committee must conclude that Silvia Duran was probably never
employed by Cuban Intelligence. 369

Visit to Cuban Consulate

Lee Harvey Oswald visited the Cuban Consulate three times on
September 27, 1963, not twice as the Warren Commission previously
reported. 712/ Oswald first visited the Cuban Consulate at approxi-
mately 11:00 a.m., requesting an intransit visa to Cuba with Russia
as the final destination. 713/ He showed her some documents, then
left to obtain photographs needed for his application. 714/

Oswald returned at approx. 1:00 p.m. with four photographs .715/ 359

Oswald returned to the Cuban Consulate between 5:00 p.m. and
6:00 p.m., which was after normal working hours, 10:00 to 2:00 p.m. 723
The guard called Tirado, stating, that someone who did not’®speak .
7 Spanish was at the gate inquiring about a visa.) 724/ 360

in


CIA Declined To Aid

The Committee next asked the Central Intelligence Agency to
arrange interviews with LICHANT/1 (Manuel Calvillo), LICOOKIE/1
(June Cobb), who may have had information related to Lee Harvey
Oswald's trip to Mexico City. 990/ The Central Intelligence Agency
declined to aid the Committee In this aspect of the investigation.991/
The Committee returned to Mexico City on August 7, 1978 and
3 Calvillo on its

attempted to locate June Cobb Sharp and Manue:
own. 992/ 393>394

a U.S. Interference

The Committee believes that there is a possibility that ‘a
U.S. Government agency requested the Mexican government to refrain

from aiding the Committee with this aspect of its work. 395

Oswald's Spanish

The reporter described Oswald as a strange and introverted
individual who spoke very little Spanish. 1030/

399

Oswald Imposter
The Committee notes the possibility, but does not conclude,
that the missing production from the pulse camera and the LILYRIC
base -has something to do with the possibility that someone imper-
sonated Oswald in Mexico. 410
Ws ‘
AMLASH.

Professor Blakey stated that the Committee was no longer Bee
interested in interviewing Rolando Cubella. 6
he Cuban government ,
e Committee's
ledge of

Captain Felipe Villa stated that t
relying on the seriousness and honesty of.th
work, thought that
Cucbela's statements.

453

the Comnittee should have know



AMLASH cont.

i On 28 August 1978, at 10:25 a.m., HSCA representatives
interviewed Rolando Cubela Secades.in Room 2003 at the Hotel
Riviera. Present were Congressman Richardson Preyer, G. Robert
Blakey, Edwin Juan Lopez Soto, Richardo Escartin, Captain Felipe
Villa, Senen Buergo, Anton1o riernandez, translator Nellie Rioz

de Zarade and two stenographers. Also present was Antonio Hernandez
who escorted Mr. Cuebla from prison to the Hotel. 1235/ The

interview ended at 11:45 p.m. ,

Proenza / Proenza

tatives interviewed Maria Teresa

f£ the Hotel Riviera. Present .
G. Robert Blakey; Edwin Juan
Felipe Villa, Senen Buergo,
e Zarade and two

At 3:25 p.m., HSCA represen
Proenza y Proenza in Room 2005 0
were Congressman Richardson Preyer,
Lopez Soto, Richardo Escartin, Captain
translator Nellie Ruiz d

Antonio Hernandez,
stenographers. 1236/ The interview ended at 4;15 p-m- 456 &
5 : 456 A
Bs *

