# 180-10145-10446

## Page 1

180-10145-10446

Reder7

8272000

SECRET

(SSC)

WIM perped to 7 nhan Hopert

paused th Fend Report (Both I

wtuch in essence faulted the CIt

mimum in..

nor in fany te

waven. сттит и ни кулиср

mgany plots igant he unrate

ід.

cap. The minin inad.

нит с антра писенну

trave rates tha This agency was

not: utiling its full capabilit

to in vergie. Oswalde

alait indied the 29578

invarn the parent apen

rim,

emauer un cavere

facts, These red, whim the

everto, and the

Mis 660 715

CFA: had it

FOR RELEASE.

10146-446

jo4l

---

## Page 2

SSC

SEUIILE

aressince of a freigh inspiray?

Stung ly he бен сириент

and the

"repling yes" the

HI. C7A

martin prepared a contentere

at hast within, the Agery, the

1977

If TH CIA; nan to me the madne

then position.

.m

ane- curto plots.

to the

19 as the Agrees Chicans, the 1977

Report achnewelds that!"

"While one can industand.

to. das.

А т сердатит, и nuda hune

bered to

runna the curitely

of its effort had it taken a

hoaded view of the matter, C7A.1

could have, consinued in spupeo

Ame what most ten in soner

secause a tensen of the teme.

The Agenay should have

---

## Page 3

SECRET

taken broader mitateris theo,

Xx. Well;

Repent.

It is not the pupse of

this andyie to detail can the

coring mew prents of Hu SSC and CFA

with.

rsad D the куплок

CHEST

batterns and to resolve rupan

controversy as to he importence.

Radies, Instead this paper seels

so present.

don. form

a vaut i source, of dange

cumes. in volvement. or poten. ras

involvement in at pusem

agan: Cuba duiz 1990-43.

Certain

infuence and conclusane

ste will there he Mann us

ч паним scape, and motivatin

as if the sindiato

0002120

SECRET

---

## Page 4

Bradument of sagement thine si

CIA Plots to Ananas Fil Encha

SECRET

utifusteni

the geness of the

"of the

will the conned send fo

thi1147

Sustata denmar depert an occur

So, one us Diet genie s

Веран перід на у сь рел

casino, f

Cames" Big fein",. O' Ennel, nees me

the сму . Ни орианна лікрит, Дегт

aqueen that Ratiert ti Maker nex

write the necury rusond.

are Altailed in gp 74-75, Intern Reynt s

0002181 to

intray prug up

2 surem Pepnt 1.253

SECRET

Elmiments Mater seen the

---

## Page 5

quate

SECRET

logical pisson to have thout

and unpacked Rosell for severa

ласта. In от при у битв ріа

m. sa nasan, mann atong There

sa: mino to the DCP dated

тири ди ри. повій мені на

Mr. Manun aenered rant he

rad. те one on ктис e

seried accasin while reing to

tara other cours; but wak

seven. to undustand that he was

2 віда таль переви су не

вина тайні о не сид!

Cummens

стритант що екла

in bases FAt fill and unmis

ndea testine cou in 9595 See Rosselli

witness

cument

in her dega quor 116.

tem?

SEGRET:

---

## Page 6

SECRET

0002183

Polli, attaigh againy shopped

al fust agreed za meting in Any

discuse further detaile

How aga the Pageant Feral Mant

places the musiaste Olega Killen

on 14 Septem 1940, Riselle recalled Mah

lastros vit the tune Nation wel

began m. Seppente 18,1900.

Tny de Varma dies goro dye

as me reme y castro reint best at i under

Lead he ate in entert woth and ax

wis teme or I Textury of de Varma,

That sue wait had an aurassassin to motevaten

cindy

to a 19NN: 1970 minto

ти D CI,

it was at This Septemile

Agreed s. interduce him (Matin/ to.

a

friend, "Jam bred, whis Aner the

Ummint;

He ummy it the introdien

' fathe Cranka (Grill and Tradin

on ungartens to you analpie

of the "te".

roll of the mason

the carto anasser plote. Fandy

---

## Page 7

SECRET

1. biancana took place

aring the

Week $ 25- Septerner 1900...1.

L. 1947 I-6 Report, p18 I

In contract, the SSC Inten

dato curi

Report ahp. 76, does not

agli

18'" (p74)) pechese of empun

Ans evidence tetren the

1167 Ii6.

Sende testency which set the intender

in a Normal 1100, ts a empanire, ta

surin Report nasoned that rancan

had ben miti deced do te Mahan

1160 waich

,cereales, an Fh7 IISUR

mvcrremen..in.an.arsassen.com

i plot af int Castro 2797 numo, dict

FaCh

menenti

0002184

dudl rasse listed in the

Intam Regort on p 77 de sufect fo

analys which. net ie

dealt with segrity ist the belem

cament!

SECRET

Altkryh the 1967 Fit Report Fall

---

## Page 8

SECRET

that " Mater

pounted aut "Gold"

О'Сти reve net catur " Grey?

of goe", the Interem Repert dingute

and. stapiny that" the Support

Xich, who was uning the nine "fens

" said he hak mer "sam

0002186

minent

serum.

maine mini

the septembe 1463 mukup a

NyC. aid Meani.

For instrece:

a. 0 'Coned stated that malen

Old Risel that y wie cresenty

Fertnost.;

3 neus aftu the New sort meyer" steh

Was you wort for

dauf is travers ad papente

---

## Page 9

0002187

SECKEL

could have been enterted untur

they cared the sare of goremes

.. This

that. he.. was an"agent i tone

had.. niche infuerts.aud properpes

round. cuok..: (Roselli: 6/24/75

pop. 9,17)

19,1971, which stale

4 could the plat agans

carto have back fired again but

Kennedy?

i sees gre of the amassons

rams, hovener,nas.

duech henlite

I tu CT involvement. Mu CFAinstigan

had upresentes themserer doumen

seching revenge agant carro

for his suyure of oil holding?

Tep Indunni source for this

so Willian

a Pief, it is and to men

I seroia discupanies

VAM CIA, senato, and Induen pelsens

nue all jugant to defend, in reye

degrees

Raselli

incens

suspect. Fusts

md. " Goe" is ray

---

## Page 10

6002188

senato comica

Step outer the ani nemppe

такам prures a rien

grapady and

surving

Manu.auc@ Chinel.com

the

native of the

my nun dealing, it is a retrie

ears. matur to resench prusla

Year to O'chine ad Michen

ичи,

tosing for an eps pest.

the oeratim.... aft the introdire

f Th jop mapor in the

wild Siater

verified that

wruch

is alect saram since the sputter

was is the un tryin shee and it

to.. tho

weich need

i site the pre-Bly of Pep

Troup Plane desceted

"hey" role,

---

## Page 11

SECRET

0002189 MNNU, 9/29/75, p.34) and Mercussed

's his jas, de"to locato ameni en

' Cartin entrenge new coul

darn playa... Croncones pan,

IN hither.

i Revelli surd a munge

fern roner murder goes

us spire poncis Sent appease

is open for quitem Je Rosel

sense charactegan i Manias soc

de. minor

n untant to

?, his aller

dice to his

that is Moneness

"Amuk of the Cuten lind" wail

The 19 No.1920 men runned

Phant in entraine in enement

more findees t the

available evana, te 1947

Ibs depart of

ende Intan report t

so stilo that "

Gold aden tipied "Goe" to Malic

an a man we vault sure

nave couver to Cuba aud

anare ments there"Sto apet

pi9; Interma Repost p.?7S. to

11

support th

deceptim of Tragene

an a carrie the.

1947. I0 Repurt in Statuy ah,

"At thn lene, the sandy casince

were stul opera g in Cuta

and. Traficane wels mery

---

## Page 12

0002190

Imment

SECRET

runa cora to. the evedene

for a pass rome dope

11.959

and wered that deement

Havana on Filey??

1980.

(See Trafferent fite, State Dyst), Manu

then No vende available do the

ricalled

an est main an Mcen survillace

eminate yestery,.

nomic that he sake no fre

to cute ar his wise fine

pum in August 1957 and

we tale months after

Testiny, pp 4-53, 04.

porn taper

by the tone of the snat

---

## Page 13

000247 ever beleno Cancanscourene

had.

been reduced r

mere...

"ranslator" and was

veded one to

Relishes course

and. The Cuban's

who had there ricrited to

done tad. Well best remain en

i win tenade on t the, to

repented in. 11438 the

oThe

That the sende dit not rgnacy

sun exanine ether man an

может. безалк

. The astor, had ben

assembles for the launching of

The enterse, a descuss for

meters 19375-10

hut this

---

## Page 14

o concana.

Chiment

was flary apses to the use

fireama. He said that no on

would he merited to ds the for,

recause the chance as junival

and escape wauld the neglightle

rameera stated a pufrence for

Lethal fill that could be jul

cantrolauk...

presumer defor

that wauld enace hers,

surepticuring porson lastro, The

name their man

who wer

then office Cry ad Butter Genese

о ти прий 1 на Aime Mnte

to recum tricksads fem te

imment

posuvornes: +714194777

the poison

---

## Page 15

0002493 When " weed to the pend.

recruit onto a men i wee

dverty teen to his d frmer.

is all in mega emanat

affu his Cuten deep,

Cmiment

note

report when it was inced to

potem. raised. I

en April 23, 1975 Atticle, cinem

s, mitten y Quid

modered planting a dmo in lasto

ice. Fuad acan is. the fine

unfinly to the

---

## Page 16

0002194

SFCRET

wrtus y the 1972 Report Was Me

fact that Ortes name an

surfaced cn cmmectin nito

cartro.. anassuati

=puszsuss

isopicants... Nomen dertomen

se кохопир Orps. Caupled nitta

s tugis' dul

is Ths

allegatin tam stuyes dad a

mit cnt. en reauy @azd

tsecme apect d Miskili

nens seves amcund a dlaim

инанин ту thn ale hes

Pehad Staigie in 1960

м апрру и

uretauea mrom lasta ie

ThD minranhune n eemncai

etirmicae, suurcl crurcem.

further descutd, to

---

## Page 17

the tentive ricines arone

000219551 Mu 1972 apart all an folle?

pal. It is abrious that may line y

speculam can de develies,

s not the

_chas of weth is that the Agrey

did not two the fil tea

Addetnal considente

canad synest ney we here as

sme in dinda dire a case

1920.

verma sun in yun in New le Days

Nina Sher ni 1175- and 1926"

3,

Fante Stenges

contacte neith

but not a minds

4 canes well dense ten

stages her not lun a whe sour.

He post ten cita in Cust

dust the

was antide cur new cit anne

i ainassin

If there was an Caller Owen,

mOrta, it was not CIt incin

nave been enter opera i sender

Stige could wane tom to fen

invalid in synder auto getti

Grim flin an 1905 sets

---

## Page 18

SECRET

000002197 Neither The: 1967 I66 Repart

or do ssc Intrim Depart. can

pin poent... the price Into on wheel

macisd the posse pees

which 0? Emme detened to Redu

Futein Report, psas... The chain o

Repent bok was fo the will

pills I de dunne form Rosselle.

to. Tipions. Alik augh. the rest

Comment:

the senate. In. Hem. Report sporte

the

wet whose.

mney nd pits for the orestin

mutig

at tu Friendle

some a stay a pills vitamins

anime lie chined not the seen

st nor is his neatests prett

---

## Page 19

SECRET

0002198 Passelli, bencana, or Tragicanto

appear as

"cony" as he maul?

lead one a delive,

st is the spread tat shram

dato and the

Tu Foen tendent In parsen an

as MR0413,1961)

and cined I upot that. Cartro became

ill a few top wes later,

alterant tu

poiming?

a fact apprent

fii.. "Heals" to Artem and dis

Umment

of this report, Orta

positem in castros spie a

the operation was sill goely on

It waild sim though, that i

genius ad hum that Gie dee

allar too is acare to Cantro

---

## Page 20

0002199

SECREL

Wart... the

failure of Onta

pertuce the desired resides,

to put wei oh a starled

mumed cramand Rosell e

- that "Tragicanto deer"

a certain leadio pigure in

the cuban exit niem a min

lu ive is accomplish the anasserta

Comesti

The ic leader was, y cause

Try de mena, ste su

i New. was the Sulpet de speculate

incity tum noto receiving penanca

aid fom Anion garyste for

anti-canto actinia

into:

involved in CIA.

Реда тост пой нас

іниз

in 1960-41

ни боячи лизан с

---

## Page 21

SECREI

è decida m. Tipicantes FA7 pilla

isd. else livan Assicatos

iperi the pione de

df the Dind. an. sade

worting. tarryn a... Washytm Dic

I moss and Associater, Man hug

supplut вз Вы сиен

punelyed..

ver of the fatore: Altript

o ruy theo not were

insuccnful:" 5 194774-Reprrt

P 30J

The Pariol

using.

inplivece

"Pens, the

the. culin.hother.an

1160 sherin

ports Esalton "elucito"

ни описей

which ma dia eupheniom to

---

## Page 22

The..

logica infecce to de

at ngayed curie, and octer

who had the prented of uniting.

Tht the multitud do inie

internar tumor.

de cauma

wer.

undustandal please

US..

no puestens

de to the

motives

Esel vama festin

nemy y muring / apen

in sevud miting amenday

M auna, Roselli, menin, and sies

exiles.

На адри, "тилі"

enemies fum sant

in Mini tung the

- Прать

vent fener lus thi spen

m: Cufre. Aud Anacles

---

## Page 23

boozzale promide the

for the Ill-fated, Juan dote

Venapulen

отру ні.

minent: Barly the strushen it

я страто Tespin

with fines who spee with

Кинтатк

no unle

for

instices di to

with Gener, May? 1978 and Traftants.

testenury, Get ?1 9723.

---

## Page 24

SECRET

attempt, (ortaa) wan mide te

muozans eleney o e ther de

bott pille, mnry

dury 1901, the conplest is weadis

"У yu sento. in specia

that only oe pe-Bbay cy Pigs atteryp,

was madl, and that "l de Vaina/ wen

Hu emtact in the tune staea we

avanged fer,,Eorta)....

admuupes

the poisn..

Cmmint.

ture appenzs, he по pare

was d resoeve de Unumai durral

au attemipt on dasts life at wrgtem

atempe teparin guieie

erment

in the mits pars itull ro libepey

as pat mn thc

twvere,

aMiarparm en tu seprediciis pom

ver Iteyl neve ap any mettetine

SECRET

---

## Page 25

0002204 Phare I

SECRET

He debacle which mashed

ни- пил-Арт. 194) Ви у Неда

ask, wex

Hoven, the fas that the

Ageng

was squeamich duly the

Prated: 1ot. tan ad a Chine

" fork even

Cannon

Le Lies

hat Rosells are to

u generato his pres

signant con porton dience diren Place

ad anace Two of the questen

wuch. dear upon the imits

questen of the moti

motevater au.

---

## Page 26

0C6221 5

smmuanuseni caney out. Fur

puot of the brugren stuut in 1940

Fuet,.. In Pause One, Ressell sfal

had demonstrated their arl t epenno

the cmtayt.on cutro ly ramuziy thwr

sourcc who was, in

postim cose a lantro o sueceed.

Ir. contrust the olfale of the nerder

seend. AnL tL MMIM oiu.

sfoetene

anisserie was delrino

vaque.

Ater przt tamy ite nu Rnziian

Meani.

ni spelider,: taly upnta на

"Yhee

mannts in. wrich Hu lths

miteral vora to de an trduad d mito dotros.

Aard I waish iiooved! an dat f cumas

rnfauaat.

peaues g

dostro."

sune 19014 ader bs Vnnn lu4

wared miny and munutins fomo

the guWAR sahmn at had

sent the pelle tint luter,

pusmay

"Resclli

прини аму м 21 ви. та /лик

had kispustche a team o theu mene

to cubs hut whnt thy fiue sigpene

pan, ropnrnuy do liti fresen

teeld.

May of the pusns thy reruire

weu o mai st Manpt - sulape

uning the pirs.

'Havre nore Aaens

---

## Page 27

SECKEL

vers for learson, and did turne

Analisen

had more than d

ali fight with

SECRET

---

## Page 28

0002206

SECRET

their names or dithy are them?

11967 S6.Peprt.p573

eminent

As the 1967 to aike correry

obscared; Hairip tall of the

Faron intaurant

poom up

was familiar in hat Pawake

had discild press the same

Man,

plan" The fact. that vauna

riled The Ilack more sand.

(cria. 1960-mi619011: leads. to the

possidilites tha

Il Kany wa como in anuny

ww de was takery are are

not had ben unry

and future potem termit fee

(3) de Vauna was stings mating

up a

story for the soney to

gain turnmen beating or in

response. to ductives fore

nymegd сита

SECRET

the cart. of undu und

---

## Page 29

0002207

SECRET

chmaotus changed.

Axiny had

insted that.

Malue a. Focana

which.

ready mike to.

Tropicano in pupure" we we

"Cuban Who spore Italian" an atio

someteres used the name bara boney

and body.

Comment

"Maccor

"" in ferdue ten unto mee

If te mish sensitie e7A covert

artini in liste

Agexy apring

Hona Hu 1987-5. Reen Cheese

Mallo an.

"Pensilis man, 'a

pital test the inderited wer

all y cure pussen

premary unes in the attene's aur

persessed, en 194z The

Muni nud Cuba,

---

## Page 30

SECRET

is slow and intimatio

per and

ни wrech

in Apil had annes in Cube, and an

has seen depose

July, septender 1942, 80 kensele

rading a scent thee-man

неги

who

were" suppered milita mon

ates via guard D un this peod

re medicine was mored de stille

Mace and the three men is the fint

ram. sape -1947 766, Repent, poiS

nice, the secred team ance

mace слых anda sun y alter

were constricted deny Decemen. ay

Neverthiles, de Varma.

who had recerd the

payne tom

Hacy: 296256 Repertp52

aqued that" nother

was hapening and that were was

he way out of fous with

ins last metery"

disten tee

---

## Page 31

SECRET

and Rosselli occuma in Wadiya

0002209.C.bn pine 1143.wner de ver

Ther

muting ostensity wee not dey

ward to my andesisten.

plots.

SECRET

---

## Page 32

CONCLUSION

SEGRET

0002210

he availa. evenue sugget.

in part, is tactly assumed f the tany on it

1922 nitural Droplete finen Neport

wurein it statts jar," It is poside

invored in preding all, nat

?

under way:

ma have ten реду-вилиту.

on He syndicate, ann

in additi

Its material contributems, was

-aura

yead sauctan? 4197776 Rot frog

the relevant even i as follnes

rancana EFFUR:

i: crancana

mitha guil, nos further duced, to

some tent o

emment

Attach the sent manges

betwen

Тами, Ртий, ак чистик

---

## Page 33

ir is

car that no plan were

some teme ate

Marcana.

пох гау ты мини сив мей

Noremeu 1100 anassinam per

cordd te

win the cpt fortuitory

positin.

per anterie theis

Machimac

wauld'

o atempting to secite, te

geverment.

Adde, na Comerent

nived hand' Rechad Cain tor

no@@ saisso in russ

---

## Page 34

SECRET:

0002213ke FBI. That he had biter

That

al is plans, to go to Cute to

Prio (stand stays the

coincidna

wine more serpect. The sente

s that

Chin

Ми!

wind of with

1960 0r de

de the contact man jo

оригант:

the

I Tie in minio on. Chin

salms ven pluce to stig sure

I the mend; that thin

"mussing second man" in you ton lee,

wretey i tet 30,1960- Mahme Nuds

quitend on this poet?

Сайн

continied to "olunteer"

литу а3, In Mpil 1923

---

## Page 35

SECREI

0002213

was the fier head of the Directores

in cura where de was a mari

napmer in deposing Bani

Petential.

2. Recrutient of

In drug the putative paroner,

molters2o

rancars

spole of a

get "who

war. chess. to

cantro whith thit

indinided cruits for the cit pille

castes guan orta, a secret en

The men ce gel"

Sit tanne car nine le gordien

Trapicant was cum in the

pert

Mutan menses lee l

curan gamos me renter audia

---

## Page 36

SECRET

It was chimn for been gent.

0002214 have cuban misua and

лансано,

Rottoman, and Torme

typica saples, Abi, one wit

numer D anny as the Naciou

m a uper dase to rust me

1 hank stuni has pen purree

Kixuned..

sour as that, she was the thend

mis here and, this chuk

name men soldied to delivato

unce operative did Loren

was soo.

with Town in cure so the die

do not tea the dated

Match,

unment

---

## Page 37

C0022,15

SECRET

"Cost his positent in the Pume Mere

Acendy to the

official rusion Onta recupted for the

Wla in the Fly he Direck 1261 an

i? The other ponde

not was one enoghte

how rat

oft, so that the

he wis hout went the past

The puter atiser then te

to wrother

the mop was

sher om masseue poor and

Tuney to Chase It of yee

it-can

conco in anny that bang had

walled u an

"on gry aream, then

so so le and that the miss

had

continied.

---

## Page 38

SECRET

of the CFH;

respire

supps canes, me aun

The Area alphush

shak, an mos insus, pissuel

The o thu loose structere of

have # in tunes of yu amorgure

naur a the gerda means y alle

attent reality da

the

sing speculaton

?? M the Prem fortis, and a new

carind for

манних пі

nich times

mine flux as Cabor

te the new entere Derana

would never

and all his

---

## Page 39

SECRET -

used 221s fusemen sense in

"stringery the bany any.

Mu syndicate.

начто сестрин тии

sat memens

/

- soldyiesten of portem neth

I regan was demity fed y the payes

cmc. with the CIA wuch in fact,

2. Joen Reselli

Repent, ps 5, nit 4,

use in segal mens in Paaali197116

atteript i reduce

sen tuce

wee attent dele deporta

waup with gNs men includes

---

## Page 40

0002218

ma Ankuria punas interes

serio pull re strau P. Morgan y

3 fam Geneare

= DefoRe 1910

were tapen die legs

ware erricanen got Mann I take the hea

I him of tany the top was a

- Faid 1147, niterom nuth TAL

sating that raf Israin, as Com, dean

in 9432194786 Regent. p1295

- carmate with sam Superh

m. 3 may 197, sam emma that

(2967 7-6-013781311

SECRET

---

## Page 41

SECRET

Notio

Jack

Arterson

"castro Retaliation"

0002219

Theny,

Mach 3, 19673 Drew Penises Artie

source:

1947, I6 Reprit.

1). It is quito tune that Reselli co

he source, moryn the channe, and

Indum and dearson the recepens.

CPIZUS

11

dieute than we do, and he enday

has tallia

(pizal

- Imgact

The:

Vegas m Madhi

so tends

Cartro has so they to do with tu

renny an assinan in retteat

for Us. Attempts n empor life, Wk. do

hot trew that castro actual third to

There were such plots agant Casto.

i tan especs test term

SSCRET

does name go warn not wren

the story and furter, Unfire matter

might cause him use du lucrative

---

## Page 42

092221

SEURET

cunt, sylis There night the some

de gamed com endure

his suggest That he apposal

sign and pubage Ameli and nege biante

- The Peaisen story, soled is new

me detail that is not found a

Mace Two's the three-manteam

comment

involved in Chase One aho, he may

ware begun the 3 man tears

until and on suked Aned on

the concep. in base, Tao de Ansile

pur dient mine the 3 man tam

' Maneu or O'Crat die Place

cument.

r.1.

lan to Peason, Agrey made,

the follers goint.

parences with

source. Has seching,

he could la

Carint

SECRET

Drew Person was not yet

M tor de, we wind, lied too of

hust gonde i the stay of the polis

---

## Page 43

She Dept. nechy,

Lep112 wallen'Dies Pedison

Chine to have a repost that there

was a heph me ny it the

rept of stale at whick pans th the

ERFE Was Not pier.

2 Other sources.

a) Memo re: 15F66,972

Dos aware that Rosali

veer. govy to ex pie ploss, i "dered.

o iqnore

and fake a

calculate risk as to the cosegumen

of his story. This nie silen sene

marin

Mr.

said mahend:

Pease (Pou C77) sen Wire Fire

Brain copteran som

oil mix deal;

Recent exposuri

inden re mahen rod in the Cuten

---

## Page 44

0002723

SSORET

lease' theay ss that menen porey

thaughs that suich pubted noud

"Scare them ay" Cre- Futull wi i ham

CIA styy ts interan Hegks!.

"Mnger. тану прен. Я синим

Htugher qpecdds thas the hhed better

Tar s, eay on. Dlahm fecnes

o au pust mootent with cft

E mimunù fecuog File re Mingens

4. Merco 19 NON 1970

Jhad confuces nithe Rondi

ni. Noenter- Deerfu,162 and ary

1965

folleny amilli camectes.

-17N0,970

nn waaden nee upures Легни

that prelli pared deporain au

vallla ten'stus,

conose threat and dehen agree

wer.ro. cn.censasant.ny

purues as lt qhecre uun puserae

5.19 Dee.1967

sen iy comersans custyntd f pery

dreaty or at Man euct м

Sen deng dechune od Mnyon toel

---

## Page 45

00022.24

Rosselli

=sto,.. the Derester Chelmel had sach

Hany a

news. сиру и Agen whe

was still Affy tenal

6. Meno 28 Apeul 1947

i connel sent a da lega

y the Phase 7 operan beet

Agnes delaying on tony amnute

вй catastip wire bryan, with amel!

-Manu ana Mene lue phase

= mum. said he has no tuneye

---

## Page 46

SECKET

15 Jan 1977

0002225

mero se request y Dote Cry

mur game, for eifmeate one

/ a, Ramn Won Westeren

6. Roland Mispener Regas

c. Luciano Nuves

de fare de la Tomente

c.. Jese quintana

joaquin tunes Cortero

9.

manda totemke

MILASH

2. The is the 3 Culace minterid ani

No name minted nice a lea

1970 ouce of secus

meno

Sporadio inters, dued and induct

approx. 1971,

I Dade Cry

I ofuce of suit has no such

deny fume of his den SECRET

---

## Page 47

0002225 Nieve

c. Released in Made 1965 you seeny

appo le mentas of a soyr sentice

egy where he was of crust to mender

- Augut 1965 enterus

Staten

= Nor 1985 to Jan 1966 I opiatial

infut to $DO

shimm

He is mentined an ta pen Radi

Is father noted that Shan then Reall

but theres inteat if this rand recal

rasphantem

30 Augent 1976 requit if stA street

- Cuban contacts of Reselli

I quandeta

vas an official of the to Gen

circa 1900-41 and was anta se

santer Tragicant, Otta was regene seller

france to made do an are notes

2. Tony l rarene

When

jam ora wan nor succeed

in carin out the mun again destro

rapicane suggeres Vauna de used, pinda

contacted Vauna, SECRET

de Vani van 5 ce

---

## Page 48

SECRET

00022.27

arsets of his in to chiy out the mino

Varn al rankey use his so. inten

to arset tum in this epent but there is

had a man, alis puse ca

In alo used the name curce come

and coday, Hany was neth

incury space site was dund des a

wan wiis spoll Station.

F. No enfo on regard deal or

511339-3523 dead Threate agant Rindle on

sumn, or Mnge ind

3, Mears 15 Fet 1972

4, the Ag was aware that Reall

we should we not entence com

ignore du tineat and tall a creciat

ust as to the ensequen tut nasce

He the duden as he stay; ter ne

sunder my pill or somene

on this thal furnisha bach t see

Attale of the in centent.

SECRET

---

## Page 49

0002229

20 Mey! 9?1

supert.

Inter Tel

i Magan had sex ergaged of tryke

are perse you Makin

IH Peace

pine pery wan Tall new, said ins

maty noises outen, tipe operate, thes

Maiy bal better take it ta m its been

of his nast robert w, 1ft

++41942-64-7009intrel

w, Mateus minuter monter aut restates

En part seare then had be quit wish.

In May 16,1921 Mr. Perk mid Walle

o train are cold toget in some one

much sumer ma ten to race the sure sals pus.

I funt. Reasons expen than re

denião expizure instigated ly Root Mile

undy his sm Oks as an utenadey,

Pisses then, is to Take Weed. That

SECRET

---

## Page 50

00022.301

ma

19 NON 1978

For: D.CI.

saly

Roell, soling

2, In

IM, Steppilo Itneas to diner ye offer of

Seau had arito that may asset on a

semitre mino resou genese ye

5. Mr Maun adried that lu lead wick

He net hew him carun yer, wears, dat

was given to indeen too to was a

A rush rant mind of the sedit a on.

all a the la many Pilene MI1 Srip.

near o the can de instru

jany ants,

6. Mater to approach A who dew man a per

7 Pitch made , y foot 940 at Hiltn Pine

His Juled renom was to could get whol

Caban dnod." No may squid or paid,

8. I mey the mech oy 2s Sept, Meln

ipodued to sam stary at the Fontericten

It wes seed meter af for ten meye

wI tam and foe, who with ange

SECRET

---

## Page 51

SEURLI

00022,32

I dim as a couerier operatiry

between Havana o Mam Thit he

saw photer ni Sundey "Supptennt ty lagde

9, In descury tto ponte mettoda

aceauplid this nassen sam segnt

that ths nor resort do feridins

if he cauld te feuneld sme paye y

polent pill that could te pled in

Castres ford or drnt, it vaut dea

mun mose sferpie operea, Sam wacest!

that de led a serpertive neminee

in te puion i beas dit, o lete.

whw had ban wlney

still dné dee ealy

finmcial tnid,

1l goe deleres dhe piles te Onta, te

sevua weh y upad atteupis, onte

apparenty got cold feol o ashed duct

o the anriganent, de secagerted deno eu

icantidas nhe nade semea atimpis

w) outswoen:

is, goe then in deesed thit Dn. Hakey

vuna.... Gad ferene dli spusa

y tu bnt ne cr witms do tandi

stto mussm thim du om vesrrene,

13.

, lie aod, as a perequante to ih dinl,

that de may de geren do, no foo

ngizatal exprna tino fo anmeates

SECRET.

---

## Page 52

SECRET

17, May1942 Havy food Are an Cane

offee o it. is not how ty the one

whitts R. was used on tal fome

0002233

11. Megal it Now.1147

18.2 De1948 R doved a Furion.

It was his bell flesh Joly in satant

an agreal.

70,

12N0N1970.

Mann call o Camell do aduse

Far il ahue attony, at Ange. had

word a call fm Tim Walden who stated

inhale

walla man a alico

not sanest 2, Males was so

inden 14 Guare 18,1971.

SECRET

---

## Page 53

OLORENO

UIlhl

iss Mac 13,1961 2s foat g Tole 983

contert ut Fantanidlu

- N fui wet lau euto inl

F60 23,1971

Once he called on du radeot fers

Sam Grancana to line up a contaot,

He conficiusnl files report thatt f head

i gaviy inteust and an in feut in the

shunp beesnen in Cuba", Inewr, tee

li gangstes terts no deria pait on Me

imassinati piol.

1912ec 1967

Mmo for Reernd

Telyhue crnunen Htary s Atmad Osbor

2.

Te feut nevaled

Dir efseeming

te miiet of aer sat snren cumemte

1. Tille tt voliiy o te hisa dent edse

wat hm, o tl or or neot the tyng pun

wic et

Mildter for ta its to se toe pesnce

xaltinme s a cenogeais, cou nes baris

wiht wred cace thi Gude Deet dad,

Espon-speculats/ tany fyyt

fud purt. radilify unne fis

Tam t0 w9rkt

SECRET

---

## Page 54

00022.36

11 Decides

Ragith in sthbed, o Osbomm Decis

2. 26NN. NO. R RcAl Hany.

who met lui ar Madion to for

3 hun.

28 New Speat 11 here at Betteda

Archey to Hey,

can clus.

Run thing se Morgan rea

radio stam i san be, Not

-R said he had not sen femee

sance 11651 Papich dedia a may

-

Hay me herchan

2 Hany units tuat he mest been

states de case. Of tua polane,

Is thy file the tay aunt it

in turn to have the ender" si

stis not a god cam, Hall thing cont

Jokeys he will wall it and.

SECRET

# mitest fee

---

## Page 55

00022.37

He had mt the liket read to bye

And thu wey we had hand the poten

8NeX1944

Hany is soure

Re could in dot 22nd 82714 but

Fang upend to seve an hi atten

-R winded of Ngong told it

do as nude for hem on it did for Mean,

4 Octan

Ostan o Hary at luch,

R quato vehement, bater ie

Maker citicady made would " sell anyone

In the liver to mired his annut.-

- Dor had sent legs nen clippe.

Ne use a tanana, A said leake came

28 Apil 47

oferian in and indecut de dad a dens

she had den in role in an quire aquites,

a recalls send he had told inge

when. Are del an ery supens.

= aun and upset ta if he

an. cheat sure

---

## Page 56

o neru discuned tatter pluses a 2

for hai vips fan.

Much, fem Gann in ten" it was Milies

wollen that there indirdul spent

some time rotter, He was cure the

fun Ming bot 1/4 duno Me Sider

convusata,

r. Clared I had diseas rape int

for Mehnd here dis fent.

r. Peered Magan lied dis sone

war for blaron o did ten that Helene

had more man a passins acquiracy a

NSA,

Mingn titt as Pat Cayne for

94 tres,

luno dens

10, It's evident tout fille is alepa

incond about poor of bey chenies

→ Any enrote

SEGRET

---

## Page 57

10022.39

sen dery Mahn

Shaken, Long pund sa, ford tirre

Hat Ahu were a Agrey.

Manen repuna o Magan a lay

wI Straw ba, a punal fund y tay,

3. Einstenald. hed idented seme

nam, ito y nome to o chinel.

Col, Rowerds,

In the cace of fan il Dittes

ra caple of his technes nee evose

31 May/144

Man aded if " sam mant" we in

the wid

17 mil organ had and anten that de

ivanda Plate anti de un the tor

n, Faustral pord, proced

13.;

Nada clnes a

lan aradas

SECRET

---

## Page 58

hn Bu l l l

Sam thre a seur of chrunties

ruuned at dur resuet,

thet me pund tat оиь

tuped on the back pound tout dd rp

to Manui wnvorres dd lop det

sounet punled to guipe Deot

wlis stred en tacer f l

Autiy

edestio

6007241

SECRET

---

## Page 59

P3

1467 Jibi Rat

SECRET

00022,42

All if the cal pada schines peos

to tag 19k0, us me pundle exceptine,

see and an at di ceas caster

Hugent 1960 to 1tahlel

Plots aggrin muned; rewdy

at least some as arificipart de one arpen

I dirt to retir name culmay endor

Apil 1961 18 1a441991

May schen hign Hey to was

Lare 1981 to lato1102

Pastecular scheme Masterat ai

cay y ruled repo in ens of mentors

Late 1142 untel Well into 1 965

aggie some boom try to; revere

Drew Pearson, colmn of 2 March 1967

went a report c77 plan in 196s te

He aho has angs:

6) team actually landed in lute o) pils

---

## Page 60

5. I1 sepidantore msuiit om

aruntns, tende o untue togat

thot de tait wawed hhv dlle

cunlatut e duceen o, zao mnet

597 0ot190c144.

Ait. Fend Repat recuyur yauh wed

to tné 2e eaior i e pienis

Rul-Trafrante

I thee Repnid

tss1sineim Puanes

5 agead mweraye rin idensyed yuot

make dien t aesus ted dsn or

upising such detun, Terce ef the

imenages wla ed to the sance speraten

Tu other too siding to sepaiato

nopozalo; there is no indieiten

Gat ang of there progosas sit te

renl f ETA, inteaiine

TTBRNCI lL4 2941401942

and was teuld 30 itepatye, the tias

Hen uported ds neve an nikpery ta?

he was a cett agunt

ttis namu nor

ien t taetr

Thae oittr were

0002243

SECRET

---

## Page 61

AMLASTA

C0022,44

SSC

SECRET

1) infence that In Ast a canto agent

24 AMLASt so inde cut.

im 8841/ to fell that de had ay toughe

,., thine was talet for hinto

ught or heat!

Over a year paised bithin freet

1942 ad Set 1963 sober he wis wet

when ship that he hid mitt ost the

Won, an as the dies

At 91?

Mann for brace is Mat.

Fend at his In dave cult, he was

dueD his potental.

SECRET

---

## Page 62

SECRET

Call on Sipt I th says.

000225s sotaly spoill hat who will alwap

de a control pratee,

.. in tent approacha as a

his mr colores anny seem te

so my dance rend cret alien

was vived as potental ingentent, he

CAN LOUDER

I atten put might inter ensure

193-4 up 55C Sam, and Findu, punts

such night have hans reset of leat

p'U

"The fact umere that whate

Menz AMLASH// may dave expured, de

had no response. fum bes CIA contes

If dey segant for his progise it tate

SECRET

---

## Page 63

0002246

SECRET

mer se стінко hot шв

And not set quen

technica instance, de cin undida

In essence de lint san fred.

There wauls he no US segent with after

Ill fast, and thr a if the vas

"Wly not shen

a My reture was in witch to pen

about the on then of a got, it is

Who revent to the quester wha

It is carray to

the statement in

Tit i was his cler tease

ailer Gag 184 7797 Ryuk staley Hal

to ten head read

19 Noris Fileral gund Hilly

in mists gua be gener

---

## Page 64

SECRET

0002248

could, if he exquented it, indide..

lugh pover lefter oo segus..

Requit is headputer to resh ten.

I didey for i more nuthy.

1214000

pya sse speculits that the is fat

print

124

WIMCIT

Is wife at last the your t

my richelie

SECRET

---

## Page 65

SECRET

00022.51

a OFA trice (fult in em, 161 s agan eni

eary1902) siglue litial puls i6

l gambly syndicate menitee... The 1961

dor aborted s pill

there sinish in Aril 1942 saw

Eld now in ten, had them sent to Che obet

We 1142, In Gene 1902, He spite dates

'" While tu events duud y Dew

seen did acer s are sidest to terri

piched together as thi on conto she

sum plain of a duet, chunne manne

any tamis ingorended"

Old, Duny the with of 25 fat 1900, donnells

Make went to Man when Kill mpsies my

Anus to" sam fold" at a muter on the

Itin hu. Hold, "boll said he had a man

as a curer to cular made inau ans there.

Male sound out "old d'and fin a dire

319 tt th te te зачу сали ти

sill! operay in che a.

Train me manno

---

## Page 66

p. 24, Desputo Me

Stunni that a pasen in legue

fome ward be mest deserave, whatries

artif prepared and delered man a soled.

in the for of omall pills dot the sage

10022524 saccharine table's

appered to the un of pull le sala

Hut no one could to recuto a do te

Got secure the chance of sure, eye

we in truck mih a dessert tran

sinal with aces. to

canto an ananat

of a sort that vault ence him to sungles

a Juan Orto sha nice then price Ches an

of in cme ad redes the mony,

p77. Hate Tef-Much 1961

upsted to o tomall that the pille had de

I have trept the gils for a cruple of wets,

Cat got

core

---

## Page 67

SECRET

i He tok refuge est the Jerepaled Thebar

0002254 Apu, 941

It would seem the, shoot the

gangster sit home that life had seady

Ant dis mean to Castro,

p30.

the caller hotter nee filed tot

ai touch with vim. Hun then maine

is money do tend to be sees.

the undu standing tat they paul were

"stempt to veif there regets were denvenged.

pil, tray aparat tune and told turn

That i had chins whi waned to do crot wi

Riali said in 1 lage sun he seld e

mas ever du could o would neva devilge

the aposten?

p32 Resell gave the jill and may to i do, into.

---

## Page 68

1.22 trade real somato abut a cutat

sto torted in a restaurant figuta

Is lento..

00022,55

p3s (O'Cunil beliver hat the wres

sentry gang on behen Aul 1941 ad sel

but he cannest now wall what, te agrees

coth Bill Any that whe the geran wes write.

Agi 1422, Hey foot over a"

gony operam's

p34, O'Corall belie to must have reed the

Me, but a his no guo were a here

dense.

p 49,

Rise needed fran. sTroy on the

Just qure as a means if entally antecte

inside Cuba. He did not need them in the

send plose becare he had Vara, Herest

it wudd he nave to asume theat

Resile did not take the pucaution of money

ilities upe in the spudit hut he was

worting in a tenty consideed to be the

avate condin of someone the un the

syndicate)

Came 1962

Han said thy appened to

have no spirit wan for haly carto. thy were

i sort otis who mind be used in sadia

same, I'm grant to bell canto mant

1st, they of the wisens the crued were t

wake the ater synts using the pills.

---

## Page 69

SECRET

00022.56

Havy never dared ther names prayly

about them.

He and with Hamy that rothy wak

wakening and that there are not

nich chance that Mythy pard

naren in yal supere

plan AFK, I tuest that if you til be o

do busener with regayed cum- with gauste,

Han will lit the Any bread bun fin you dot?

this vas a remade request.

Dible. the Attry Seals cy of the minimbe

i the rend of that liking My a sweder

limens is i Ardenes of th Ats affice.

vies Quite Degt bily that tina never dis

neu.

have that the

Att tin this Jula Dept dive to

Ga might be steve

"rat last affeced if an ruse of

rich puts tai crozent en1 959%

ime tam in 1960- try digree the antone

wid invasion at the Mayo gigs an Apull 1991

Riomb mabuni

buggina incident

---

## Page 70

0002258

ULUNEI

p69

20 Fuqut1143 Clari Dall News

FBI agent taily ben nho alliges

says:

I'm ine of you

CIA lut

venen perred as bern aproced y

AMLASH

a parti mility in flne

sis a not

in gerey wire

"ubla'

nemait in tuta in nel

acant eusan mility lade, ithle rectylei

pla pon tecnica an tra in on menta

215st for colli io later

58714 Sepit 1943

Io sel He interges your fund again?!

"so thy dint.

---

## Page 71

J0022.59

SECRET

mare the tup! I want to get ance

pan poures стринь,

192 Fandy sup that, white cutela was

arous to do away pith castro,. Cubela

Was not wlay to sacrifice the on by in

schane for castros: What Called valy wan

wers high-peered, sillaced rifle w/an

a):

Just we could denise some techient

mean of doing the jit fat hould cot

cause him to lose his an tiler

the hy.

The Press Perison Sty,

Paleded Derans

ed temy me hume I not tue te was bruth in Phase

Te offer twas are the was not

go build on Phase 2

havana; me stell in pum

his then in or new may

ill or tipt they we areas

зних вір ний чат

SECRET

---

## Page 72

to chen th 97 no rely tatian on the baum."

was dues stapot ly castello eno

sim. He is repored to have

Tu Phil ene enter duot

widget.corobratixoagport.ne

0002260

SECRET

---

## Page 73

1927

9 May1947.

SECRET

y rara do suo Estrade a estagn

7 ed lu und armino: Canto Lamn

un nume in entali de ilieria d

lit de la fauns perenn

0002261

SEGRET

---

## Page 74

onli cndi.

lequent.

SECRET

0002265

- Richart Cann

alve Rebet Serel Caiin

Redland Scal yette

DOB

Uct 193 dunjs.

FRT

menus

- 21 Dec 1 960.

noo.firxey.ep/u

18. Jaw.1901.

ideitifei iidrsteds.

- Identl of WI.ROSGE

- ApulaL to spul lz

mares

sametliy joyin?

incepriul of Aqcey:

- RFT scauty called on 4 mul 67

to.. Mlten meno, aluag heiw erfecle

rf 2. Mach. 62.

15 Marcle 65

in Gila...

Bangs in madrit o clacria grees

Maly:

failed mn guf tr

1 Mauhdlo srests in Culae

Tud ufund mf to thto tell 24.o egas

w/ Artrine mutings

SECRET

19 Quri64 Pepen" Becuti Rems Appuch Th Wite

---

## Page 75

SECRET

0002266

27 NNK3

contered in natual pieran

ward for never on stungs

duays Tat

Dec 28, 3111973

- Cari

= Fall 1960, centert on duayo

- seumin/961 minut

= Apull 194-2

missed CR

- 4 Jem a2 depirted

- 19 Auy 63

Мисиі

Pirating, Mean.

- 12 Sept43 DRE Am: purchase

= told to got out of pictire

=/May /922

Fair Pay met ai Feda3 ah909

- LHo pudined rifle March as

SECRET

---

## Page 76

SECRET

6002267

Ramen Den Festerey Dominguey

DOB 2 may or 5720 1934

Rolando. Magener Rozar

P.S: /2 pam. 1918

3, Luciorio Neves

4, Jose de le Tumento

5. Jose Quintana

DOR 300+45

перши з пишус

Fonard Perpent Morgan DOB 20 May1913 Stiac

SEGRET

---

## Page 77

Fescrned

T.AB B

(2-9-78

SEGRET

0002268

Mngans

Cevert Sccut Clemnce Mn 252t1951 pr use

in." cit out" re negsestrs fr chat of teony.

Dur Studers Jou Notuilns

Amended s. Hyunnd Macde 195/ ts inctde

Mnsi us nn peran eent lgd syent ss

apuars m ru pinya cot ant, lege aduc

mansnum y funda ni cunuta cu DDo pegis

i. DDO stauld make deum whettes to

wleace infs.

Resarte In.t. #591 72.2

walkn Gromes..o.S ficé 473865-

asao wr. neyer hausky

- Corp.:.

Crend Bahrna Develquah Conz

w1. pebert Wtir ant (433.974) aus

goln P. Roulet (6439 997)

Салі

nuserndery te Deller, cain on

-1964-4.5

-SECRET-

---

## Page 78

SECRET

B rally.

Parl Ayers

Apod 2,110 Pesk

Ful. 27, P30X

Гег. Ape118... 1171.

9 FEB 1978

00022,69

st pauli Mir

36.4.1

SECRET

сагриг. о тит 4.

Ruth; Hang, Rantin (14)..

Big Jader

/ram-sites

inky ta...

Card Sound M. ede M Freeds

Secued

Appera

Datt

10-Aug. 1944.

Refite 23826ÜDDP|WHISH

CAse No. 366085

Requist For Permull tetin

sual No.

364085

Natere

Separten Ritem t5. Parent SUC

12-1544

U's Full Other

Resista

---

## Page 79

SECRET

C0022.70

2P/ RIFLE

He cable/ rapic beang ZA/RIFLE t

be almit in scalel envela to cly

FI/DOW. D, 15024 BIL

onl

- Purely agend § DD Plane

tary

he FI/Dm,

19 Fel 19412

Because of sinteve nature of ther

pacer o construe au tripto for all pose

4 Eye oil

Rech. D Helms.

Hard writter notes

Morgan-Reli-Mcle-Garun

machin lar Vigar

mugans fack hidem

1) Puerto Hugàs

2l Augas to Aprelal ( B68).

3/

gular to trial

4/ Lato as to tatt da (Cuter misste curs

I hate as to ele

---

## Page 80

SECRET

G0022.71

Raeli of storte in Sert e

AMateu to Rondle to Crancera)

to hugd Mey ar

Taylor beane chair num a 765

in 9 Aug iz

nush, М. Naua, Гадв, Вик,

owen, oil parents, ramsae,

munn, mcche

Mere For Reend

Rept at requat y DCI, connyid

to 76m 23 Maich 67

all noves, o othr derend sruce refer

desreed 23 Mg67.

Fum

Dor y sume

Find account of manes liperdd in

25 sat 14s they

Doobies: S58 eatent

511941

690.

---

## Page 81

p?

sec)

SECRET

Il Fel 1961

To Perepel Ach

31 Jan /961

14 76 60 61

спито Ropunm

26 Gigh 19661

thug

12 Fel 1 9661

C002272

1920

10843

995

e. Lato 1942 unte well end 1963

Aste merle euse off a28

collapse a monorso, aqquine saline

that was begn in Buy 1900, cere

Two other plate nee repuften dis

•b. lo August 1962

munny of special Enrep (Arpmenta

whereen McNamara nocal sapa o

liquidate of cuban lade.

Result-Pigel MINE mino

Landal

31 Juj64

Das cum al Special Gop of a linterne

suvas men o exce por do

hell les

ClA bud uses to fire diso bud no won.

and gestues

ren Rules

p2

Gonyaay Grante

---

## Page 82

To a t were cam very

SECRET

00022.73

Lato tapt 1940

itwards, o cha, Bessel of pures

hunveil, a dweeds then heed

Han Dulles a Cereal Cabel,

male called @Chills presid det

Paral seom slay bold o foe

Anna names,

Zoe a cour to Outer make

I rap may repuls to merr

30 Star-hast cosen elesed

4 am: 11) high here like shelter

presen to be admited to a gun (olech Comille

Rossevel sait was suppled to lacy Pavee

6) backuial matud in legund or (3) aegar

41 tindaly

029,

Maich Apal 1941

man

ligh up in epite merent. (Thana

---

## Page 83

SECREI

C0022.74

buen Vain.

а 21 Пес 196) ГВт тихо. и уалднек

financing cute actres to ne ten Cases

118 tany,941 ancest do with these

schine, That hied Moss an a fend russ

24

NOV 42 y CH Stay Cuds 2R MATOR

Roselle to delan AFt.

Estimate

vay but fier tone say, 10, no t no y

taken to

ind lus parepon on spalent

people wis tvery:

1. 5. O-riginal man to paci

2.

AV.

3. Son-in law of HV.

-EGRET

2/рV

---

## Page 84

Phase 2

SECRET

G002275

Hany breed by a hug y Bussed

ni Fil 1961 in chinest 29th a gened

stand y capabily for i xentre acren

Hang but aunt duned potter

wo mold Silver Sidey Got deto

lott parter pustay cut in to cute

Helms trued in geneal concept heat

or in engoing Cutle plate i 05

IRRIFLE Coreud an a FIID. openter

Intensely to devel a cogately to enter sola

8 laid nap caurich)

2R - у вісти вна с

unture a (315s4

Unrelated - Helms puts Hang in

change of Agencep Cula tark fice

Lat 116/-Fay In Pery busy.

Fely Much le z

- Maricer Hang take me destro

- Hang rew-

came to then is canted arratues

ZA RIFLE NO Very sermon.

2R RIFLE dime meant Cartre

2/PV

---

## Page 85

SECRET

0002276

(peera tando Castro operaten

offin was any of are beery deser

-Reend (012A-1974) 24 Arelle)

show territ

Shaku

an 21 And 64.

no indecim on he fill that the stee ton

Edwards.

- No actres of fu Bopp until,

- Edwad, of contad we RFA

mer metine weretap

indicate he was draggy Re fim uh wi

sence he deed plan for gettery possen

toà fatente castro restaurant tumudes.

Whe den we to there did Fined and as tinted on Ples ones

Connell there "somethng gray on",

---

## Page 86

SECRET

Apel th aggies

00022777

A avy met wy Rossell, O Chall

Itary sap he wad have reminded

manu; saw him socily me or force

appu 1947 men try come to figur, not

But i did not mends made when his fus

p45

p43

o nd sup opera goes on

a friendle

лим w toy

wen Hay the at are actio he ch

i Mini

I am won racert

A to and phase i funer

Resil ugt that bran aid him

what was fory m, A repted" nothy

Man- "Ton but"

48; Macco-wilhe a Vanseats kend

SECRET

---

## Page 87

p49.

his end y the opuatin,

00022.78

sund rod to Bary."

With tily

spit 1062

y study, clay of TMWAND,

in explains

i| 20,30 coln

Hay shary unt it-rawl,

1/ 20 48 ам;

" put fuck in suit corpor

911 beat radar

do Real, Sendl.

Shack not. aware of

150

MAIN. ID

sane old

Than Zoo

sipes men team to Cuth

seat 1142

Han saw Rosell in Man se

of militat men anseed to sentens

Contri try guard dut neen happad,

Sept le 2- Jania 3

Fany in Miam. 22 Bee-a Tan

Robile 221050.0fr.9n z3mhra

men who never diph' n Fla Keys!

up was for taco an

is not clar

---

## Page 88

SECREI

15?

00022.79

And Noy 67

Helmes

appra a lurt messe

W? Hay knell before Haw lys

for here:

Peal who her

Bruce Cheever (Itamp den 19621

Rena ni Wint ode

da stad tarn to tiger

REK "all the way! IFt agred not i

pascule weretap case but want t the

informed finer be a gene seen

the murry vin a phan lou; men

pepael on 14 My 14z 4 Kwards tause.

REk not told that Phere 7 hal

On 14 May Or Hay fare Kelor,

adven againt tea to me spen

carter.

With stands the piste

is not going to he used

amant

REti secretay could on 4 Macha?

to attain Edwad no, He trevo

SLUKLI

---

## Page 89

SECRET

0002280

apprenty wanked to chech dis needed

of what he had ben luft upn,

Helmes had turk a) RFH

o allened him to read mins, the

In not have a capy,

1954-55 Matur hered dy Neerches

1o offact onassis contol y foxid all stupens

o mer at least one w Nexen.

widary Стиало,

- Manun sita de

mout wey his attry is mendere

W want actriper.

SECRET

---

## Page 90

10-11 Hunt 6 2 SECRET

Nanny Topedinos Cale on

capentagers Vani used teassen

o cubela inside retiment

14-23 Prept 42

03 Cubela, Tepedino, Wanny to

Garle Wilma, fon Maded; met in Peen.

suppler, sham a demotion denmata,

Refuset to he pilgragled.

uru but te might do sim his

слное, Heartes strong aner thi

no plipical diminatin mies one be genis dudela, te

5=8 seet 43

Brayil- met g Wainmgh

Tepedior Nester Sandy nes beeme

case oper.

Afraid o potal censorshy,

That light of Raven Fain Diey

bum sent to want f4/0

145h43

SECRET

Tum Beel Curela Plento Parca

I was grays feel carto of te the pat

G/TV

---

## Page 91

AMLASA

SECRET

0002281

9 Manch ol

03

Jack Dewar mel w, entela

I arrangel of carlos

steven where he was ma incord,

Cubila and leader oy DR

an dike gray if lyfit studnt, sind in

195 toful Batta, Nester Sardy - case offer.

28 Mackles

Both Cutlas Chile wand to

defect, acindy and a Mini State,

Ix furam cand og as repent

that Clan pole aware is cutler..

antin is cuda and of not in lea

Ofer two tents are even more rebelon

H5fpran 14 Heystal

meneze pom devlinister (que fine)s

Press o

SECRET

Lucia Ichevaria Bianic toes

to elster's want to lepert.

ZITV

---

## Page 92

SECRET

would stop in Pain to see teptes

0002283

27gener942

Tepidenio apgrrald FBJ in Meani

m d gur moo inei thas Cubela

wntd to defech. Th I sent e detiel

mino ts clf scvice they buew Tepauo.

to le a att ansct.

8 buel 42

Tepilwo dessategfed w) C/A handy

e cabelai dleeten en Pau ciài so

Lae cntactd EBII staet hir sreca

y mpo on vanns po afpecteen vree

ochivarias,

o gutn wannans met sy cepitna

a Jeweher in Nyc o toct ment te

dchenkascubeba.sochdct.duey

rcruita in plaa not alrerrng,

cipea wany to don ap ou uepeneii

hiel castro, cartes Rortqes, sfnet bint.

2-9 Auputtez

mekup in Storkahatm berure

Han thi и. Силыа statt thit he

toed yo lis luen dsdatter that

lu met Tepadiio in Mlanit

SECRET

---

## Page 93

SECRET

that he was tally a varen,

0002286

380763

101

Sandy arre in Parts do mus

cubel sho had mister Tepedio an

My shut he din want to entere.

CIA hadd tell

"24

That enterto were for

Cure under surrelina:

1l Got 43 Sarde Cares Hat Curia

even ayout his, suppet,

zadetas

Firgpual, duy sAS, guyte Pas

I got approval pom tel ma

Fit states he toed curela that

CI Mi.

14 NW43

reter we scopes inside Cuta, on require

22 Nor 43

SECRET

you getty pen a Beat he pren

Sandy says Cubis arap pen

but stated de woule not educt

---

## Page 94

Cult with him - SECRET

0002287

Cubila asked to a carte

ams i de placar Intrans

farm;

thy up muty, beard

oFK shot,

fardy stated he reard an

op in cavle fim Filerald that boyfly

is "of" but rothes in AMLISH feli

/Dee 63

1 Cubila utam on Praque to Cuta

19 Feb1964

MWANE DO have a cacher ci

plea in March.

Done m 17-21 Much 64 m

AMTRUNK VILL

24 April1 964

Tepedino had ben tufd t

mut carin for ROBRINS mripy

wis has menge fun Culla.

A 3Ma44-Peareno saup Cabila wanted a silences

30 Auput 44

Artine reard mps the Marie!

•That a group o dedit mende y destro

regene nunt do enterest duct

contact 2 00704,11rfnlesereks

Actesto BLANCE remariag

13 Nw. 64, SECRET

Artime agrees to -tall 7 BM20571

I it tuns out he is cect man

for intend dusent prop. Arma

---

## Page 95

00022.88

SEGRET

graup we can friget abrut operat

4 DeCh 64

ardy pepan a mens 15 6570 y0

рыул repa a Dleyes Arteme dies

6-7 60814

sanchy met Cutela in Pacis suar

Hah. greg to antere his plan

10 bec 64,

ortemi din hawr nor lutte

chat cAt in derect antert with tac

Ruther S45 centured os put dorto

men together.

er cauld cost the Artenic.

2? Dec: 30. Dee linkine)

fattont

• Cubela o Arteme met in Medrid,

Arteme igort to fandy tint Cutte

had urutt a selvar fo FAd ufc

but trecen win gere lun ine.

Arte to one ce le dedicar

1Kl/65

Artemes seoy SEGREIM wen ame

pm da lisit dre nno in Medud.

---

## Page 96

impers

12 Feb65

SECRET

00022.89

or medrd,

4 Mach 5- Cubelani Hasena, saure

is fuend y Jepedina reso telelems hu

15 Mado5

Raped Guan Bangs Derali

auver in Madid fo Cuta o inford

Outly Close friend of Cutla, s clan,

to be in fauch a grape nutty laden

plany to elemens contro.

so eep. 1109

Сут 145

PM taince we are tunint as a mutener

on 20 March 194, contaid zas we luge

FBI M3 penas.

Espunastalt he had vend later

pina puind in onus lgy live

I mut we tres Blows wen bed a

nunge fur entele we want it the

HOLA

If yes, the diait m what he ruded.

SECRET

1510,400

Curle had want mey in Pau

---

## Page 97

le Fet 65 sordy gave hintms.

6002290 Tepedia 2,00 Mi NYC,

23 gune 1965 puts sent are

tenny copat, thy pro far entire

ASHA

(Mach de- Cabelas fain anesto for

activiter co. cIt

Jose this bengag ballarto, ores Blee Romany,

send Navamo, Cupi

Its appeary- Guillems Genhil

Abrary, Hege Heners Vidy

bengaliz Faltan= attentio in

кригі

enfeatt ep

it Us Ambary in Miled.

32

Cubela mut no Arteme in an

mited. 1965,

Arten sent fallege to 4s to get

telnaps sight o selever, Delud fo

Blanco Remary sho delven it to

Genaly ballaneta ten to cutle the

Seyd in culala vender are

Tao Mercyeis sight, FAt riflet.

9 Mauch 44

carts sent autond litter

that

Leathe sentuce not beasta.

10 Machas

Cutea testiny:

Silena die here; I This

aw decere it was buring my hunds

z/mV

---

## Page 98

special

Ispole to Fidelen Gang, the gened

00229tle dun to me cnt I tet nos haue

the caurgete tell tim

arminat

Tral sudes on fund to teepts

wy Artene No menta ye mach al thu

No hert of pason pen No63.

Is full details maule fum come cia,

aramas Misten, Rechaul Endwen, Rost Herwith

descurde

whit bare

Marvel Taylor, Me Ferge Bund (RFKArent)

Defuse:

MeNannn, U palist, Lemnter, han dale

C1f-McCor Mary

US/A-Rewand Munmi, Donald Wilson

Fey- thomas Panot

Paratt noto d/a rien anderen

Landule moto mine ou 13 Auspot

Ii Haney, Harnith, Haes, o Wison Which

---

## Page 99

SECRET

cmal interend Mahi in May a7

o moto a report.

2- Nevs him of Chare I pm Ancle

0002293 of auer

3. Riselle steered to Morge l Freenspun

4.- Make suspect Onelle a dent i prea

5- Roselle dentay hearif; Morgen en

f= vorrism

Mngan, Rolla in lega

i machine tuch a Rosali, so was Mann

Our inpren that Greenspen the in volu

in eto envusaten:

carin morgan d.

Is Rott Maliss

Hut tened

Peasas stry seen to rely on s

there.

Carld he bany if ref, soun

Probay firm

a stuness.

stal Dept meting + mot. oran

2 Roll Chitt. suspen

cuic

Infura: Reselli denly tos nechs.

---

## Page 100

0002292

SEGRET

Larsdal mins araged deaf ng gapes

pur vaudes suget ulted is Cuban

operatién:... A portin excised poo CA

cupy o memo was includy elinester

net лени медь от кла

30 July 1964

303. Committer meet in. Situate lon

if white House.

Мсвіщ Вн, Vara, Miles, Threas

Hughn o Des. Fagguald for a ducen

These Pater Jensug in secy,

10. peno 4. mino form DDP. to Dor

ne matin plos 7 arenato

larka.

Prece.was 1501n0.00.10, n0 4pm.

Cuban exili Gise Macio"Pepin" Bosch,

Bacard Rum, I. cnpuno 30, 7. te apune.

nuts po as parcan Refund matright

19 sugut 6.4

DaIl Michael to Bunny re

Fit interen i all partie ants

SECRET

---

## Page 101

SEOREI

0002254

Patlerty hes not men it corce?

a) Peaioon hae nor yet uoed the

pille. 8 thact of stald

Dept muteny

6) bauun hes not ueveald pellene; C/A

shaud he pinenery derpayt ien de does

dli: P uerts Recain in rustrdy swillle dyate

Pearsen stey in cheas I detail yfoue

mnf in lhare tt te 3 mon tamn,

pie pest in it but leht- tlat Meric no

ettever. niteue in Spteady te sten

p127. Wa do not leer Bial Cltto akey

rud is nddodto, dot ve de tueno

that sheve were sich plit agent Carter.

uunanpe, it new appens t sunn

#174 1644-1993 Yat Tatin Gaden Tara emlià

rma se ppasa iuar. lep, bery uudo

Hum winld dave emenetns iua deay

hü GFA coneon sisni he nau peale

tn enint auta, iein das

ahial nemelt mun tu F97 vas Ceside

irmil 1n. 1983, Enalli aeu à bu dagit an

il CMereSamn Wit anganslacen,

P 131i T6rech-38012y1947

cirnearita to dis it mer a baceel

---

## Page 102

Tal A

- SECRET

00022.95

had acon 10 3070

When thes altep failed, Tsuper

- Roselli ervectini

Na 1967- ilyal entry

Dec 68 = Frun des

Ad Are stafs

Senate Staff 28-gene1175

N0838-73

9 June 25-

4, Repent 1s. M at weld Taglen mule y

Pick Bissill int-no Dee 1971

DDO

(alleged Conto anaen)

DD8.

f walt alder

SEORET

---

## Page 103

Missing

SECRET

5 May,967

Suly. WnaK.Haiy

0002296

Bill

Habery unhart Papich to

upon't to Papil some intert he hear

"gargoter.

"and offer lui coop to 887,

Ke expend to Capich

=-

1de May 4?

TabB

Asterite Fand Colen:

remar

7 Aul 77

Moron to De co A Cera 195,

as a lanyer "cut out in matters of

§twant Piergent Moran

DID3 27 my 1913 Stoma

HAt - Rechus Scalette 88 357-22-333

1964 Texarkand Te Pey No. 17169-77)

In May 1964. Bolden refusedts

George. Howard!

SEURAT

Chicajo Amucan fr 26 Nw: 1963

in colm Dal Dexy I Magges Day.

---

## Page 104

TAB

7

l septia.

Gansen a grist of Mario Mareno,

a tercamos o

Haces, an for leyn ht

baun demit tuantge s Mauris emeo

to marcello.

To chey. SRS

sulfe.

cau

9.00t1947

Into. re meterig or Fair Pla

undr Rechard Criley (7.346114)

Leads obrand fin.

Ralp P5X5Z(44426

Speed 4561994991

60022.97

SECRET

---

## Page 105

xith

He1110 UCF fw Doo of Sail

9. Auyut1976

risili, golugECREt

Blind minid sayy goleykindi

0002298

Tab Bo. c

Addetred.unf.w.Trof Peredle.e

favcen: contanil in mstia periay

riland for revren ie stungis.

21 May1975 Menio f Brecherudfi

1. Aithur Ballitte o Fid Arui wiest

112. zon 1141 makus std FBF he

rcenmesle Da Bris yo ankA ato ivtem

lu win dechse

2. A Hny is gamins cuntulen per a

i3 macch (901 uport

3.22 MajQl. FB7 mimo ie cufeinen

w/. Col. Edwaits

who.said de.emntoates

Mahen. en faul o 1960 for uae dz2 "Cut or

fr raudin. Hawu gan euy inteenen

to mahew he rauld attry acoplile seves

dandeteie eferto in Cute,

10.Jom1974

Mins! Chuy. Witer.

Hemplen. Deven

sudg! Satottere branenns hechue dacn

Pe: duccago Träune Htrteder 1 28 dd3)

Dec. 1973

Richned s. Cxini

4272141

D0s och1931 in duago.

---

## Page 106

Lef ruce siue ci 1960% Bocunão

Latinafor.

a fetfum

CIA confarts

A: Fall1960

SECRET

0002299

chin chifatt. entock cr cliajs offre

srstinteed.inp.o.cuban.esitgrocige.o

chajo area:

B. Gin. l1

Conteold Lohmar o. Aleays Feld hee

r a Mr. trogabady niho was negot wy

pedit of Pirna cmefno Connn.

C. Sumus ki

Chin mck in micis CTf l CA-sep

idin, perpose umunn

1. 00k1941

Cais wrot to Lohman fom Parana

fly his surier.

Cain maku unamne vast to, Agu

uys.

wowen.scottz.wawenDeaninMepes Con

sepy he had an wairie agacy on

trarcher in. Cleys, LA which tu nid to

jvide.trainnit.Mixien.Gevt Agents

F.4 Ganddez

Digorted fr. mites fn loadd wosks

han hwches

in pecmaza

mixen oftcial

worting

6: 19. Augut 43

met. on chicag ar.

Lau Stre Duein Atlre

And s odie Cty snace speed Ws.

iv stay lar? chuyy cungs DCD spee

---

## Page 107

SECRE!

0002300

He would ake to wort over seve

for CIA

cain worked to Cook lf Shipp

o pe in contact with Cuban in duezo

area o would proma ento an underes

alter of enris pace Pains Sierra

#, 24-38 Auy 1943

Can wife the Student Dereoty,

a Char exce grap in Plam

- Mero Cordogos mint en

'DRE pegel who hud quetend

told thin to get out of the pickere

1.1967.

FBI invertyaty Can ane a pit

2e.15 Aput 19.72

Chin uten t Cliays fem Merco

It then an apead 1 My 1972 says de

as goer to Later Mina, Emotio

n illegal aims dena (enterinals

a vaurs occasion stales de van CLA

M. 16 May 1172

Niceo an Sater ph Faceion Can

Fasten Airenes por ed hen ar

SEGRET

/PV

---

## Page 108

SECRET

27NN 63

0002301

Robt B. Pe. Lohman

Faii Plaz pe Cale Cnmiltto en

Tet 83 met at 903 s Eaulleig Aepa.

under duechn g mchel Crily, Sazy

chiçgo dapte, Assassinatm y Omn ducud!

2o parctad refhe in Meedi 1963

saupi Frece das not

la Lito

at Io muny uu steny surpeci de

was in chicijs in Ajil 1943 s respondre

for piring ita sfecu y U17

4., Shuff Olgelnie d in lihe FRF so

had.

'"ofecay" arkd Thi f ifo on

Fair Qla frrcura, Fy. yhy derelepy

ary ming ayense thy woikd pode wtem ti

Coatd wnk sout! "that earf in! 963

Th Cucane torhoen ajaatnmks

pr. Far Phy

15. Auguul 4]

Sandy Swuth

Cheayo sun Temes

follng up " lead. that he cill e it

Ie ugt frencen wned to get mife fou die

lar. no iaps. of oahc.

Said hu did not chow ups to Rd brerhne,

lur io somen in Futmann gfeai (puxces

---

## Page 109

0002302

SECRET

Brechen ide Mind to Ded of repress.

1. Pusus in Sec A of paigen 3 ci

contained in me 50 volunt of mated

2. Schm B lots 3. Anutin. Algers,

entactes minimal

3.

Quite in sect. O

Blis Arteme, the used es

Mafiain des to operate

Denome have alady interend a crind

who is retered.

Tad.C

"Taum Don Festerey Doinguy (shorty.

DOB 2 May. ox Fel Fel1934

2. Rolando Masterer Rogus brity

DOR 12 JUn1948

3. Luciana Nieves ( shry.

I Joke De La Tonent (thur

5. Jose Quintana DO 300445.

ratef a reptio l marge 2. Rall

4. Jaspun Antones Corterjo DOBIS Jan48

7.

Mame Arteme

SubMar

---

## Page 110

TABL

14. Male 1974 SECRE

muting a Teng denyses

0002303

Bof mullen if the mulen any

- O'mally new Hugher e cleant of

excuse of. a ended wester behin

дим в. пилим на еку наі сі. спекота

Hunts Millen met miPair dumy

nachael.o.can

- When rule dents here Nees

emstemain.

- Hunt gurdd. O' taly pr an

- Horsten.

- Fauf. az interenten wl Farnel es

IoNS re pinbe deportat cy trancens

Osbom, Angler, Rocca, s Heron

SECRET

---

## Page 111

eauy as

1977

Rebort

SEGRET

0002.304

AMTRUNK

IJesigriet to ienuy states nae desefleted

purennel ini aimel frce in. Culoe.

Baf63, Nedor trtnio. Morene Lopey

8.2mque.

Cayords Rotera develed Lerenedo

Pan t sreetmo Castro.

Mreno difut in Aped 961 o arsc.w.

Lorge Volrky,; Cutan afgen of Poleti onger.

Presamug. Usse8 7hen eri Prlik Ar Face indr

Bretish thrund MaredaCulansduwei

Miani' May al.

volsiy centous Tad Syule o mut with

Gordwen o Herwitch (St6). Ctt Arsiyn plan

to mu anú Staie o ut is hunn a tntRunt

Nerl.. pagund. vey for o b figt es

han :3 sorucer indudy buin

Mocent in Oet 63 was wnerod fon

AmtRuNk dieto indercutene le aas jryte

apper. i...JFKC thn Volsls fzula

Had somme cintacts but no cid acton

capatslit; In 6e buns Pig auutd.

Sgules Volsg toch Prlichi, met in Cutre

àn 195-60

SEGRET

sooe Ricado RABEA Nune

surpered agent nes dlfeed Veclzs

joind HonTRUNK, utund to curaen ner ma

---

## Page 112

0002305

x in 85 95 expeltato his fernf: Amerted

Agen 38 g0- del ped in 63.

Hechoate RiBEZ a Cuten degen

as. carly as July 1963,

ImTRunk might has been an nin

Cuten pen fun the beginny: Jef coper work

lazing callas some infits se fertisto,

- quotes sturges in anass natu allag

molly using year hate to bond caste I

stilges: id of Ita, purts it dinner

y extend interigan, raise quien as i neer bite

The of same moto mens en 1975.

noting conectim beton Shuge y Potheren in aee

citing. FBI regorts.

(made is coyersten i Daily Win Strenl

Giancana.un.FB7mino.180071960

indicated he had met a assasson to be.

o pill on: Cartros fun or linit

Ince ClA gelle not and Fel 1141,

seems that mot had their son plan

-Eat dea Stag it her in 1440

---

## Page 113

FRE

Vaana

i sit 2.

C

0002307

21 Deo 1160

-mas synt for slee

FAJ 18 Jan1961

X ramy sme of that sipport

Strages could have liained of citi

cou au. Onto selled in More in 19605

FBI. rent

14 Augut 1964 would a statement f a

perm jailed in Cats wy Test.

Other Progosals

/ 11ay.975

uban exile pho came to de a

contact. engle stat fut in Fit 190l he

was qven a rifter a munto tell chero.

Tred to enter Cuba 3 Tenny fault

2. My1122 Anduom colmn. se

Antonio Vecians

On 3 occascin/ Dei1980, Juy 62, Hal ass

He propped to Cl the Unsaniteng listo

In1970 uport he mad a pisod,

on HID ensplence.at an used post.

5. Agent

SecRemenage in 19661.

1. 3 of merge noted some grap of agents

---

## Page 114

FORS

so prodey same plen

0002308

Mach.1961 AmBRINEls

Plan to sastac wsrec coy on

Lavama s: hut Castro at Sonte Paluci

2..29 Mnech1941.

same illa witte refimate

animu m 30 Mlck tut. no. commenten

anarnaten

3. 5- Apil.61

a Agul hy nesn n 5o men, traudd be

a) AmBRone infiltuald sevced femes

& fenll ecentl 3o Breat az affu Mes

aunt. Regnte ie pene saufug be ves

Glt'; s ntt mented in Meteren. Brrt

b) AmcoAx// boct pusm ni

c) AmPuG! fouch wz AMBrne

TMPANICIT

1 mentna in Metivere oooe, Dre

38 yr sentucr,

Hl 3 peaple sentneed guer to ByP-s.

nome had arsassination misseon, o uf

imBRon mentad: thit?

06,24

Moratoré y FTalen Dntare

clained he had plass po mrem win

30 daye oyfu telly tide

Reply was that ingo wos

untrues.

(moratori) contumm,

z/N

---

## Page 115

SECREW 1

0002.309

TObI

hie.. "Fide Lody"

- Kepy was Lay this

AMLASH

Dejects nation that AMLASH a Cuban agent.

-.

No cantact between Auget 1902 and.

Sept 1963

= 7 seph 89 Feet cables indecate that

IMLASH is Ce

spoiled brat, hopelus as mike

allaned to recret his om couts.

Bot V leanes inference the Contras

speedito Dan tarter at AMLAst leak

he was refung to Cula.

he was repeat as dill une Filed ancis

"If something interty" Musk

p26 S5C Feud Rp/. SECRET

On 24 NoT Miscs Station usprded toa

Heckpunter request for names if tro

contacts of outin sit gasme in Mice can,

---

## Page 116

SECREI

0002.310

Pugne win to demes septiones

Itas contact n/ 8a5

AML ASH 11 name we included.

But un refercu to contact beta a memeter

of the

soviet embassy. a Cuban culter

attaci. NoT a regint of a trach detare

HMLASH11 Ared the Seret

"I" role- cleay did not now dy

AMASH: 1143 anoceater cir CLA

Table. 5

sarate of Pen tend

28.Nai94 Nai943 D1R85657 (C/lt/3)

2.9. Nor63

te turned out to Mean authori.

12 Dec1943 C505-3/779,048 (6/4083)

Sul- WISON, Carts goen

30 gam1964. C505-31779,814 (GE/SCE,

Suy: Jack RuBy-L170

SECRET

20.

Flardh1964 @SCT-3/7801612 (SR/CTTR)

Photo of india chat resent Lie

---

## Page 117

SECRET

1o Gine (944 0561-31781,841 CGT/RON.

Info se Ruly

6 00t64

C5C7-316101446-64

Hes comment on ? Phote Foral 7095

W.C Doc. 1054 Rites Accenta:

0002311

7 2e 2:

---

## Page 118

Xen 211191s

1977 76. Regat

SECRET

1 Amunti

on pilo

0002312

Tu curems ay the eft in take na

dal me sunked, and in the ren repute

2. A stated these are SSe Ford Repset i te

They

should dum,... faes,''p?

A antal dear a The Made it

Tend! Deput much is clear that it pule

This they should has pen wels

renew the sure du can pies.

Fan men i pierce tilly in

---

## Page 119

SEORET

0002313

rener de an evrurm en peccepeen.

ie provocao ddede in 63 fem

ceton praque,

"I yhe sse Fiad Rgst den ilerd à.

endrisuic initead cIA Geusund deering

rejemit uva ds regumy spaifi attrten,

Revis ly Agercy -

Persono in shirto tiero detale of 1923

61964 opuatra for the nnt puor an no

inger avaralle, Vieny reunsa venda

Dt das neve condurid sede a.

iteuinio-

Iohig as" The Thhir end"

Ha bossitle chaix y evetuc, wohen thys

itreorteact caule tne stutd, The teas

mrtuek no new crane ferug en tee

Mnasscetn, altió' it see pertued the teee

i new ener apecilten tn fac, te

wwew smm.inesumeso selezae

a suiid ixuciée mn tepy te ees

Hu4 of the

mnocium they

nd tier

car 'huns aoe s cam

bitnc atulh.jeauy.en

saaassinimd iiees tenaais in ceqener

mmatrer decone em sy asteyy ths

Heinet, ( wolia du nite tonaul earero)

cauct siave berral tast i dder

de ausiana see teuan test hal

---

## Page 120

0002314

Fad Reyent, fell nat tis mey tap, feyey te

-seemed to the tailored!

Tao é

wat this man buny Pan Jeunedys tfe,

nover at Tax D.

The they posit is the?

wettert substance, Hal to tend is

Mit the war a

If an induseng:

In a seurs dy stru. ly Paul Subil ni

---

## Page 121

Stult!

0002315

Orta. Frechulted tum to unt with the

"Hel Steiges, has cland ma unter y

vld,

but had no derict ill inshops

watt the teen.

perma

Unstoo. He plun fuled berken thre

Ant his posin, and with is hir ean,

was over wa he te ne in the

verenam mass in Havann is tuel 194.1

cnd setter in Maut' in 708.1965-

and ne 13 Tune 19),

---

## Page 122

SEGRET

0002.316

a crimean better Stage and dartin

in 1900, airing FBI upots,

caved deduce theal Stacey and Oate

culd have tum ine anotter

cats with yu men heady the

july of stenge on 1940 ne pom pull.

in sar, see cam.

Quoter-FR7 mind m. bramanea."

"Tha seen to trim so for

those, th deny of suit does sat fit the

until Filler 190, I sign that e

Pil dead in is nese.

wid invaded in indicat

---

## Page 123

SECRET

0002317

suato nus the cenua apueno.

whn fuet apperza puer to p s pes

in

maua/dal to chuy aot th latn

auscuan, the 1147 D6 Pepnt eqh

I too Ih7 rgn's that ber on this.

One of them, on ?1 Dee, eo, indicie

zepipon er the cine cindunnt

fur som o the euton exiter, the

atter repert, an 15Gany,941,

suggest that Vaisn was one ay there

Mciny tuat tupport, athis this nee

nos confined.

'Fe, Lato dé fini ie apatr yout

plot vu ilinc dua por 150, n.

speculatn stal wan Masterate

it pel1142 care ofai jeet "sheue

wea s mitly caleal "ngoing""

Itis...

senfe that cft senfy

sound ital involved nn parede,

iditena resourcs for indendnt

openains that the syriett tury

had under way.

In a senze Cit my hin dem

ade is sugiye an cura Y seri

serein,

6020

---

