# 180-10110-10083

## Page 1

180-10110-10083

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/20/20

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10110-10083

RECORD SERIES:

SECURITY CLASSIFIED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 089-JFK

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

HSCA

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

PHOTOGRAPHS AND FILMS

HARDWAY, DAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/15/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: Box 4.

v9.1

50955

DocId: 32263488

Page

---

## Page 2

KENNEDY

008317

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

DATE 5/12/28 In: 10:45

I.

Identifying Information:

Address

Type of Contact:

Telephone

X Person

II.

Summary of Contact:

Barbara said that she

had never heard of a second

Soviet photo lase. Ogave her the

crypt and the said she would

have Russ institute a search

at Warrenton. Me asked her

if the Cuban transcripts

were complete and she said

that as for as site knew

thay ere Me pointion and

we antine wanded it

from 3

III.

Recommended Follow-up (if any) :

over

NW 50955. DocIdSaZArateelage 2

---

## Page 3

the other at may had seem tely.

She said she would check. The thes

pointed out to her that ive hard

then tong that the had not

veryone

everyone includinanne

_ no

tapps!

He asked hers te to fund

Sheasked how she con lages.

find somethin

did disit not the tol

hen that was here problem.

soodpastine.

He got to work Ihr.+

45 minutes after anival

NH 50955 DocId: 32263488 Page 3

Dan Hardway

---

