180-10142-10406)

box a4 F #0
eof

erican...page 7

which had been carried out in Key West, Florida. The report
stated that Lopez's counsin, Guillermo Serpa Rodriguez, told the
FBI that Lopez came to the United Stated for the first time some
time after Castro first came to power. 27/ He stayed approximately
one year and then returned to Cuba. 28/ Rodriguez stated that
Lopez returned to Cuba because he was homesick and missed
his family; he had parents and four brothers who still resided
in Cuba. 29/

Rodriguez stated also that Lopez's brother Selito was
a member of the Cuban militia at that time. 30/ Another
brother, Raimundo Policarpo Lopez, had reportedly been
sent to the Soviet Union to study by the Cuban government,
according to Rodriguez. 31/

Rodriguez told the FBI that Lopez returned to the United
States in 1960 or 196] because he was afraid he would be drafted
into the Cuban militia if he remained in Cuba. 32/

The FBI learned that Lopez married an American woman in Key
West in August, 1962. 33/ According to Lopez's wife, he worked
for a time with the Pepsi Cola Co. in 1962 and at the Molina
and Murgia Bakery in Key West, which was owned by cousins. 34/
She said that he also worked for a construction company in

Tampa in June, 1963. 35/

THIS GOPY Is Rot
FOR RELEASE.



Cuban-American...page &

Lopez's wife told the FBI that Lopez began suffering from
recurrent attacks of epilepsy and had to be confined at Jackson
State Hospital in.Key-West in early 1963. 36/ She stated that
he was treated by doctors from Coral Gables and Key West for the
epilepsy. 37/ She stated that she did not believe he had a
history of epilepsy before coming to the United States. 38/

She believed his convulsions were brought on by nervous tension
and worry over his family in Cuba and may have been a reason
for his return to Cuba in 1963. 39/

The wife said that in approximately November, 1963,
she received a letter from Lopez saying he had returned to
Cuba. 40/ The wife stated that she was surprised he had returned
but that he had mentioned he was going back to Cuba when he
left for Tampa in November, 1963. 41/ The wife gave her opinion
that he returned because of his close relationship with his
parents. 42/ The wife stated that she received another letter
from him later from Cuba. 43/ According to the letter, he was
working as an elevator operator in Havana. 44/ In that letter
Lopez said he had received some kind of financial assistance
for the trip from an organization in Tampa. 45/ According to the
wife, Lopez did not have sufficient personal funds to pay the
expenses to Mexico and Cuba. 46/ She said that he had never had

_contact with Cuban refugee organizations to her knowledge. 41/


~American...page 9

Rodriguez told the FBI that Lopez left Key West
in late 1963 to go to Tampa with the hope of being able
to return to Cuba. 48/ Rodriguez said he believed Lopez wanted
to return to Cuba because he was afraid of being drafted into
the U.S. military. 49/ Rodriguez said Lopez was not involved
in any pro~Castro activity while living in Key West, but that
Lopez was “definitely" pro-Castro. 50/ Rodriguez recounted that
in one instance he and Lopez actually had a fist-fight over
Lopez's pro-Castro sympathies. Ssl/

In a report in March 1963, the FBI reported that Lopez
had attended a meeting of the Tampa Fair Play for Cuba Committee
on November 20, 1978. 52/ The report also stated that at a
meeting of the group on November 17, 1963, Lopez stated that he
had been refused travel back to Cuba. He said at that time
that he was waiting for a phone call from Cuba to get wore on
his departure to Cuba. 53/

According to that report in March, 1964, a member of the
Tampa FPCC stated that she called a friend in Cuba on December 8,
1963 and was told that Lopez had arrived safely. 54/ The member
had attempted to locate Lopez in Cuba through friends there because
Lopez had not delivered gifts to persons in Cuba from people
in Florida as he had promised to do. 55/ The member stated
also that the Tampa chapter of the FPCC had given Lopez
approximately $190 for the return trip to Cuba. 56/ The member
said that Lopez had gone to Cuba by way of Mexico because he did

not have a passport. 57/


Cuban-American...page 10

The March 1964 FBI report listed Lopez's passport as
#310162, which had been issued in January, 1960, and his
Mexican tourist card as "M8-24553, issued November 20, 1963
in Tampa. 58/ It stated that Lopez entered Mexico by private
auto at Nuevo Laredo on November 23, 1963 and departed for
Havana on November 27 as the only passenger on a Cubana flight,
carrying a Cuban courtesy visa. 59/

According to the FBI file, Lopez's mother, Esperanza
Rodriguez, was born in Key West, Florida. 60/ The file
listed three cousins and four uncles who resided and worked in
the Key West area with their families. 61/

Lopez's FBI file contains a memo from the Tampa office
dated October 26, 1964 which states:

It is felt that information developed
regarding the subject is not sufficient
to merit consideration for the Security
Index, 62/

The only information transmitted by the FBI to the Warren
Commission on Lopez concerned a check at the Passport Office. 63/
The information the Bureau did send to the Commission about the
Tampa chapter of the FPCC did not include any information on
Lopez's activities. 64/ The CIA apparently did not provide

any information on Lopez to the Warren Commission. As pointed

out in the Senate report, this omission is made more egregious


Cuban- American...page 11
\

by the fact that sources had reported within a few days of
Lopez's departure for Havana and of the assassination that the
circumstances surrounding his travel seemed "suspicious" and
that in March, 1964, while the Warren Commission was well
underway into its work into the investigation of the
assassination, Lopez had reportedly been involved in the
Kennedy assassination.

In the 1977 report of the Inspector General of the
CIA, the Agency attempted to refute several "inaccuracies"
in the Senate report regarding the reporting on Lopez's
travel. That is apparently the only follow-up by the
Agency on the lead after the Senate report appeared.

In the first place, the Inspector General's report
corrected the statement in the Senate report that sources
reported that Lopez appeared "suspicious" when he was
surveilled in Mexico. 65/ The JG report explained that the
internal CIA document of December 5, 1963 which characterized
the man as suspicious was merely "cryptic and impressionistic
rather than constituting a tangible basis for dramatic
activity or final conclusions." 66/

The report stated additionally that the March 19,

1964 cable from the|Monterrey base which recounted the
information on Lopez from the contact of the Mexican police

and claimed Lopez was involved in the assassination was


3

Cuban-American...page 12

incorrect on several points: Lopez's name was misspelled
"Lopes"; it stated that Lopez entered Mexico on foot when
the CIA repeated the FBI's conclusion that he had traveled
by auto; it.gave incorrect digits in Lopez's passport
number; it stated that the Mexican tourist visa was issued
in Nuevo Laredo and not Tampa; and it reported that he
stayed at the Cuban Embassy. 67/ Based on these inaccuracies,
the Inspector General concluded that "the source patently
was extensively misinformed." 68/ Based on that observation,
the Inspector General completely discounted the cable
by the Deputy Chief of Station in Mexico City on March 20,
1964 that the Mexican police source information "jibed"
with what had earlier been reported by the CIA's source. 69/
Presumably the discrepancies pointed out by the
Inspector General are meant to explain the fect that the
CIA did not take more aggressive investigative steps to
ascertain whether there might have been some connection
between Lopez and the assassination. In that regard, the
1977 Inspector General report explains that the Agency
had no other means of investigating Lopez at his disposal
and had carried the lead as far as it was able by

questioning a Cuban defector about Lopez. While the fact

of the CIA's lack of access to further information about


Cuban~American...page 13

Lopez may well be the case, that fact does not explain either
the failure of the CIA to take more seriously the suspicions
of the sources, or most importantly, to report whatever
information it had to the Warren Commission. In that
regard, the attempts of the Inspector General to denigrate
the value of the information provided on Lopez do not
diminish the apparent negligence of the Ayancy in seriously
pursuing the information as it was received. The Agency is
not to be faulted for the strength of its intelligence
gathering, but rather for the judgment which kept that
intelligence from the governmental body, the Warren
Commission, which was mandated to pass on the strength of
exactly that kind of information.

From the information collected by the FBI, there
appear to be well-explained reasons both for Lopez's
desire to return to Cuba and his solicitation of the help of
local FPCC chapter for that travel. His contacts in Florida
appear on their face to be innocent and nonpolitical and not
in, any way connected with the assassination. Despite the
suggestion by the Senate report of suspicion in the fact
that Oswald "may" have been in touch with that same FPCC
chapter, no evidence appears to suggest that Oswald was
actually in touch with the Tampa FPCC, or that Lopez was

connected in any way with Oswald or Dallas

Cran


i-American...page 14

Despite what is now known about Lopez, the Warren
Commission may well have wanted to lay to rest
suspicions which.would remain about Lopez, and satisfy
itself that these circumstances in no way indicate foreign
involvement in the assassination. The CIA has contributed
to those suspicions by not airing the matter and explaining
circumstances which could shed light on otherwise sinister
appearing events. .

The Committee has documented instances where the CIA
decided to forego passing information to the Warren Commission
out of a desire to not lay bare extremely sensitive sources
and methods of intelligence. thef urine bperation
certainly falls within that category and as soon as the CIA
began receiving information enat{ rere jas the source of
the information about Lopez's travel, the cables and
messages reflected the desire to not reveal that method.

It also seems plausible that the FBI likewise chose not to
divulge what it had learned about Lopez because in doing

so, it would have had to reveal the sensitive CIA operation
which generated the initial information on Lopez's travel to Cuba

on November 27.


inerican footnotes

Tne Investigation of the Assassination of President
John F. Kennedy: Performance of the Intelligence
Agencies, Book V, Select Comm. to Study Governmental
Operations, 4/23/76, p.61, Senate Report No. 94-755.
Id.

Classified CIA Document Mexi IN 72615, 3 Dec. 1963.

Id.

Classified CIA Document Mexi IN 72829, 3 Dec. 1963.
Classified CIA Document , 4 Dec. 1963.

Id.

Classified CIA Document Mexi 7253, IN 74227, 12/5/63-
Id.

Classified CIA Document HMMA-22579, 12/5/63.

Id.

Id.

Classified CIA Document » 5 Dec. 1963.
Id.

Classified CIA pocunend{ muny Joo29, IN 43194, 19 Mar. 1964.
Id.

Id.

Td.

Id.

Id.

Classified CIA Document Mexi 8740, IN 43940, 20 Mar. 1964.


Anerican footnotes...page 2

23/ Classified CIA Document, Personality File Action Request,
16 December 1963, #201-741600.

Classified CIA Document.

24/
25/ Ia.
26/

Id.

uN
~I
a.

FBI Report, 8/26/64, Serial 105-126109-12, p.

|

N
©
ass

Ibid. at

N
oo
~~

Ibid. at

w
°
nt

Ibid. at

w
fe
fee

Ibid. at :

Is |
foe,

Ibid. at

we
w
at

Ibid. at

|

w
cS
Siact

w
wu
N

3 (8
bin, iutetoen

w jw
©. 12
Hie, Cotatetbe,

i
o
NN

la (6 [EB (IS |e
it Hn, Saebettin, Satesetin, Sstutetbe, Sstteutin.

cs
~
~N

|

b
o
N


Cuban-American footnotes...page 3

50/
Sly
2/

53/
54/
55/
56/
57/

wn
Re}
N

|

a
2
NN

a
me
~

a
XN
N

a
w
in

Ibid. at

According to Lopez's FBI file, he registered with the
Selective Service at Key West on July 29, 1960 and
was classified 4-F on February 23, 1962 due toa
language barrier.

FBI Report, 3/31/64, Serial 105-126109-9.
Ibid. at

Ibid.
\

FBI Report, 10/26/64, Serial 105-126109-13

Senate Report, The Investigation of the Assassination of
President John F. Kennedy, Book V, p.63.

Id.
See Senate Report, p.104.

CIA Classified Document, 1977 Inspector General's Report,
Tab B, p.16.

Id.
Id.

Ibid. at 17.

wn


DRAFT’

Cuban-American

In Book V of the final report¥on the performance of
the intelligence agencies in the investigation of the

assassination, of the Senate Select Committee to Study

Governmental Operations) the F.B.I. and C.I.A. are criti-

fully
cized for their apparent failure togPpursue leads surrounding

the assassination of President Kennedy and then to fully report

to the Warren Commission the results of the investigations
travel from

they did undertake. One such lead concerned the dapaxkuxa

Texas to Mexico City

of an unidentified Cuban-American EX48MXP#XXE on November 23,

1963, and then his flight to Havana on November 29. The

lead was made more “interesting" by the fact that the Cuban-

American reportedly attended a meeting of the Tampa chapter

a

of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee on November 17, 1963."

The House Select Committee on Assassinations examined the

whet
documents connnected to that lead to determine a) t her
facts which were known by the F.B.I. and C.I.A. about that

eae ff warranted further investigation andwhat- investigation
individual; (b) whether any of that information was reported

ite esas Commission and (c) whether the known facts
suggest any involvement in the assassination of President
Kennedy.

A chronolgyof the activities of the F.B.I. and C.I.A.
on this lead amplifies the information which was in the

possession of the two agencies.

seen


In Book V of the final report of the Senate Select
Committee to Study Governmental Operations on the performance
of the intelligence agencies in the investigation of the
assassination, the FBI and CIA are criticized for their
apparent failure to fully pursue leads surrounding the
assassination of President Kennedy and then to fully report
to the Warren Commission the results of the investigations
they did undertake. One such lead concerned the travel
from Texas to Mexico City of an unidentified Cuban-

American on November 23, 1963, and then his flight to Havana on
November 27, 1/ The lead was made more "interesting" by

the fact that the Cuban-American reportedly attended a

meeting of the Tampa chapter of the Fair Play for Cuba
Committee on November 17, 1963. 2/ The House Select

Committee on Assassinations examined the documents connected
to that lead to determine: (a) whether the facts which were
‘known by the FBI and CIA about that individual warranted
further investigation and what investigation was undertaken;
(b) whether any of that information was reported to the Warren
Commission; and (c) whether the known facts suggest any

involvement in the assassination of President Kennedy.


Cuban-American...page 2

A chronology of the activities of the FBI and CIA
on this lead amplifies the information which was in the

possession & the two agencies.
CIA Investigation

The first information on the travel of the Cuban-
American appeared on December 3, 1963. At that time the
Mexico City Station of the CIA sent a classified message
to CIA headquarters that a source identified af urrep0/4 naa
requested of the Mexico City Chief of Station at 1300 hours
on that date "urgent traces on U.S. citizen Gilberto P.
Lopez." 3/ The source said Lopez arrived in Mexico on
November 23 en route to Havana and that Lopez had
disappeared with no record of his trip to Havana. According
to the message, Lopez had a tourist card, carrying number
24553, which he obtained in Tampa on November 20, 1963 and
his passport number was 3106162. The message stated that Lopez
-left Mexico for Havana on November 27 via Cubana (Airlines).
The classified message listed the eryptonyl tarree as the
source of information-on Lopez's travel. It indicated the Mexico
City Station had no traces on him. 4/

In another classified message dated December 3, 1963 from
the Mexico City Station to CIA headguarters, the station
reported also that the FBI office in Mexico City had been
advised by Mexican authorities that Lopez entered Mexico on

November 27 at Nuevo Laredo. 5/


Cuban- American...

In another classified message dated December 4, 1963

to the Mexico City Station from CIA headquarters, the Agency
reported that the State Department check on Lopez had produced nothin
yet because of the difficulty in tracing records using only
aname and passport number. 6/ The message contained this
paragraph:

We assume you have not cord aurremeo

that Lopez flew to Cuba on 27 November

LIFIRE }per do not want to blow the

Corrrre eration. This problem is up
to your 7/

ee referred to in the classified message

to the Mexico City Station invorved cooperation between the

CIA and Mexican federal officials who participated in a

plan of photographing passengers of flights departing for Havana
and obtaining the passenger lists of the Cubana flights.

Mexican officials also had their own program to photograph the

passports of the passengers arriving from Havana. 8/ a)

On December 5, 1963 the Mexico City Station reported
that th rveuvo/4 Jsource had stated that Gilberto Lopez had
crossed the Mexican border at Laredo, Texas on November 23,
1963 and registered in the Roosevelt Hotel in Mexico City on
November 25 at 1600 hours in Room 203. 2/(araseo)arso

reported that Lopez departed on a Cubana flight on


ncAmerican...paye 4

November 27 for Havana. That classified message stated

additionally eats rnenpo/4 rad a good photograph of
Lopez. 10/

The photograph of Lopez{contained in his CIA 201 fie ]
has "27 November 1963" stamped on the back. In the photograph
Lopez is shown wearing dark glasses and the background in
the photograph is dark and indistinguishable.

In a dispatch dated December 5, 1963 from the Chief of
Station in Mexico City to headquarters, copies of the
photograph of Lopez were attached and the dispatch stated
that the photograph was taken on the night of November 27,
1963 at the Mexico City airport by Mexican authorities as
Lopez was boarding a Cubana flight. ll/ The dispatch gave
the previously reported information of the numbers of Lopez's
passport and tourist card and his entry
into and departure from Mexico. The dispatch contained the
additional information that Lopez was listed as thé-only
passenger on Cubana flight #465 on November 27, 1963 to Havana;
the flight contained a crew of nine Cubans. It said he used
a U.S. passport and a Cuban courtesy visa. 12/ The dispatch
had the following message: “Source states the timing and
circumstances surrounding subject's travel through Mexico and
departure for Havana are suspicious." 13/ The dispatch
said also that the source “urgently” requested all available

data on the individual.


a

Cuban-American...page 5

Also on Decmeber 5, 1963, CIA headquarters cabled the
Mexico City Station and identified this Cuban-American as
Gilberto Policarpo Lopez, who was born on January 26, 1940. i4/
It stated also that Lopez was not identical with a Gilberto
Lopez who had been identified as active in pro-Castro groups in
Los Angeles. 15/

On March 19, 1964, thef Honterrey station|sent a
classified message to headquarters that Enrique Ruiz Montalvo,
an agent of the Mexican Federal Judicial police { haa
informed the CIA ]that one of Ruiz's contacts reported
in late February, 1964, that an American citizen named Gilberto
Lopes was involved in the Kennedy assassination. 16/ The message
said Ruiz's contact reported that Lopes entered Mexico on
foot from Laredo, Texas about 1200 hours on November 13 carrying U.S
passport #319962, which was issued July 13, 1960. 17/ According
to the dispatch, the contact related also that Lopes proceeded by
bus to Mexico City "where he entered Cuban embassy"; it said that
he left the Cuban Embassy on November 27 and was the only
Baeeengen for Cuba on flight #465. i8/ It said the contact
reported that Lopes was issued Mexican travel form B, #24553, at
Nuevo Laredo. 19/ According to the dispatch, Ruiz reported
that he could not verify the contact's information,
but thought it might be of interest to the United States

government. 20/


Cuban-American..:page 6

The cable stated also that backyround information
concerning thq@ Monterrey base's Jeontact with Ruiz was
contained in a dispatch dated March 18 which. was being pouched
to headquarters on March 20. 21/

On March 20 the Deputy Chief of the Mexico City Station
cabled a classified message to headquarters in which it was
stated that the information contained inthe earlier dispatch
which discussed Ruiz's contact "jibes fully with that provided
station by LITEMPO aJearty December 1963." 22/

A 201 file was opened on Gilberto Policarpo Lopez by
Agency headquarters on December 16, 1963. 23/ At that time his
records indicated that no earlier 201 file had existed. The
file contains a "Review of 201 file on U.S. Citizen" by

(Cenry cibson,J an operations officer for the LAM/FI component
of the Agency. 24/ In that review the file was classified
as a "counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelli-
gence or security service)." 25/ The date of entry of that
category in Agency records is indicated as January 22, 1975 in

Lopez's file. 26/

FBI Investigation

In a report dated August 26, 1964, the FBI documented

the results of its investigation on Gilberto Policarpo Lopez


GLA. lnvestigetion

The first information on the trevel cf tre Cuban

American appearcd op Decemrer 3, 1463. At that time the
Kw Gert <. classifies message Te
Mexico City station ealed C.I.A. headquarters that a source
identifiedd as(Er7mP0/4Jnaa requested of the Mexico City
Chief of Station at 1300 hours on that date Seu ‘urgent traces
on U.S. citizen 3ilberto P. Se
SMX YX Ehe source said Lopez arrived in “Mexico on
November 23 en route to Havana and that Lopez had disappeared
with no record of his trip to Havana. According to the wabab>
Lopez had a tourist card carrying number 24553, which he
obtained in Tampa on November 20, 1963 and #het« his passport
number was 310162. fh eeeeee, that Lopez left Mexico for
Havana on November 27 via.Cubana (Airlines). the Sapis+ ™SStape
listed the ceyptonyal 1 ne fs the source of information on
Lopez's travel. It indicated the Mexico City station had
no traces on him.
LCYAssifiea message

In anpkkexxeabike dated December 3, 1963 from the
4exico City station to C.I.A. headquarters, the station
reported also that the F.B.I. office in Mexico City had been
advised by Mexican authorities ebews Lope "that ae entered
4exico on November 27 at Nuevo ee

In another classified. message dated December 4, 1963
to the 4exico City Station from C.I.A. headquarters, the
Agency reported that the State Department check on Lopez
had produced nothing yet because of the difficulty in yy

tracing records using only a name and passport number. The


message contained this paragraph:

We assume you have not tora pret Po 1]

that Lopez flew to Cuba on 27 Nove:

becayse you do not want to blow the\LI-

FIRE foperation. This problem is up to you. ty
thelr FIRE peration referred to in the classified message
to the Mexico City station{invoivea cooperation between the
C.I.A. and Mexican federal officials who participated in
a plan of photographing passengers of flights departing
for Havana and obtaining the passenger lists of thecubana

lsJhad their own program to
cidnyalso had the-capacity te photo-

flights.
graph the passports of the passengers arriving from

x
Havana. J

On December 5, 1963 the Mexico City station reported
that the[ir7 PO 4 pource had stated that 3ilberto Lopez
had crossed the Mexican border at Laredo, Texas on November
23, 1963 and registered in the Roosevelt Hotel in Mexico
City on November 25 at 1600 hours in Room ovine 20 Jas
also reported that Lopez departed Beieibene flight on
November 27 for Havana. That classified message stated

lo
additionally thai Etre PO 4fhad ‘a good i of Lopez.
CC.

1 Furey

has "27 November 1963" stamped on the back. In the photograph

The photograph of Lopez contained in his,

Lopez is shown wearing dark glasses and the background in
the photograph is dark and indistinguishable.

In a dispatch dated December 5, 1963 from the Chief
copies of
of Station in Mexico City to headquarters, the photograph
Wee the ckiqpetch
of Lopez mse attached and my stated that the photgraph


rake
was, Gbpothaetl on the night of November 27, 1963 at the

: : : as Lopez was boarding
Mexico City airport by Mexican authorities. The dispatch a Cubana

flight, U/
gave thefreviously reported information of the numbers of :
Lopyez's. passport and tourist card and his entry; snd depar-
ture. from Mexico. The dispatch contained the additional
information that Lopez was listed as. the only passenger
on Cubana flight #465 on November 27, 1963 to Havana;
the flight contained a crew of nine ee said he
used a U.S. passport and a Cuban courtesy Sate
dispatch had the following message: “Source states the
timing and circumstances surrounding subject's travel through
Mexico and departure for Havana are sci gi Hinata dispatch

said also that the source “urgently" requestedall available
lso on December 5, 1943 C,I-A. headquarters cabled

data on the individually 4g <,
the Mexico City station, that Tape was not identical

(wien a 3ilberto Lopez who had been identified as active

in pro-Castro groups in Los Angeles, ny identified this Cuban-

American as 3ilberto Policarpo Lopez, who was born on January

4

On March 19, 1964 theft onterrey station) sent a classi-
fied message to headquarters that Enrique Ruiz Montalvo,

an agent of the Mexican Yederal Judicial police, (haa informed
Ruie' A
the C.I.A. Jthat one of ‘@ contacts reported in late

February, 1964 that an American citizen named Gilberto Lopes
‘6/ -
was involved in the Kennedy assassination. The message said
Ruiz
nartakye contact reported that Lopes entered Mexico on

foot from.Laredo, Texas. about 1200 hours on November 13


carrying U.S. passport #319962, which was issued July 13,
ieee Accoféing to the dispatch, the contact relécreed also
that Lopes proceeded by bus to Mexico City “where he entered
Cuban embassy"; it said that he left the Cuban Embassy on
November 27 and was the only passenger for Cuban on flight
eee It said the contact reported that or at issued
Mexican travel form B, #24553 at Nuevo Laredo. According

Rui
to the dsipatch, Wanbatro reported that he could not verify

the contact's information, but thought it might be of interest

to the thited States government.
The cable stated also that background information

concerning chefvonterrey ase’ g] contact with Ruiz were

Conterdeut
‘Raptact in a dispatch dated March 18 which was being pouched

a/

to headquarters on March 20.

On March 20 the Deputy Chief of the Mexico City
station cabled a classified message to headquarters in which
it was stated that the information contained in the earlier
dispatch which discussed Ruiz's contact "jibes fully with
that provided station by( Erm PO a paray December 1963."

A 201 file was opened on 3ilberto Policarpo Lopez
by Agency headquarters on December 16, 1963. At that time
his records indicated that no earlier 201 file had existed.
The file contains a "Review of 201 file on U.S. Citizen" by

([sercy 3 ibson] an€ operations officer for the LAM1/FI com-
ponent of the Agency. In that review the file was classified
as a "counterintelligence case oa involving a foreign

Yi

intelligence or security service)" The date of entry dmta
Agersy cords

wn
of that category,is indicated as January 22, 1975 in Lopez's Site

ey


CUBAN-AMERICAN (CONT.)

F.8.1. Invests gensn

In a report dated August 26, 1964, the F.B.I. docu-
mented the results of its investigation on Gilberto
Policarpo Lopez which had been carried out in Key West,
Florida. The report stated that Lopez's cousin, Guillermo
Serpa Rodriguez, told the F.B.I. that Lopez came to the
United States for the first time some time after Castro
first came to ae stayed approximately one year
and then returned to Pies Seeeaie stated that Lopez
returned to Cuba because he was homesick and missed his
family; he had parents and four brothers who still resided
in cuba 2

Rodriguez stated also that Lopez's Se ee
was a member of the Cuban militia at that tue -ekAsehed
brother, Raimundo Policarpo Lopez, had. reportedly been
sent to the Soviet Union to study by the Cuban government,

: couertt!
according to Rodriguez.

Rodriguez told the F.B.I. that Lopez returned to
the United States in 1960 or 1961 because he was afraid he
would be drafted into the Cuban militia if he remained in
cuba 2”

The F.B.I. learned that Lopez married an American
woman in Key West in August, 1962. According to Lopez's

wife, he worked for a time with the Pepsi Cola Co. in 1962

Moline : : ;
and at the Mdina” and Murgia Bakery in Key West, which was
a4

af : :
owned by cousins. She said that he also worked for a construction

company in KaynWiese in June, 1963.35/
“Temper


Lopez's wife told the F.B.I. that Lopez began
suffering from recurrent attacks of epilepsy and had to
be confined at Jackson State Hospital in Key West in early

Bey
1963. She stated that he was treated by doctors from

Coral Gables ep bon ria the epilepsy” she stated that

she did not believe he had a history of epilepsy before coming
to the United states “she believed his convulsions were
brought on by nervous tension and worry over his family in

Cuba and may have been a reason for his return to Cuba in tie3,

The wife said that in approximately November, 1963 she
received a letter from Lopez saying he had returned to cuba tf
The wife stated that she was surprised he had returned but
that he had mentioned vie going back bagare he left for
Tampa in November, 1963. The wife gave her opinion that he
returned because of his close relationship with his pecan aed

The wife stated that she received another etter from jim
According to the letter, she was working asan ele-

later from cuba” Fateraeppeetor HopEPVEeRAd he had received

for the tp
some kind of financial assistance ,from an organization in

Tampa. According to the wife, Lopez did not have sufficient
personal funds to pay the expenses to Mexico and cuba ¥
She said that he had never had contact with Cuban refugee
1,
organizations to her knowledge.
Rodriguez told the F.B.I. that Lopez left Key West
in late NS#EMKAXX 1963 to go to Tampa with the hope of
_ being able to return to Cuba. Rodriguez said he believed

Lopez wanted to return to Cuba:. because he was afraid of

being drafted into theU.S. military. Rodriguez said Lopez

was not involved in any pro-Castro activity while living in


k

Key West, but that Lopez was "definitely" pro-Castro.
Rodriguez recounted that in one instance he and Lopez

actually had a fist-fight over Lopez's pro-Castro sym-

st
pathies. ad

In a report Dom March, 1963, the F.B.I. reported
that Lopez had attended a meeting of the Tampa Fair
Play for Cuba.Committee on November 20, 1978. The report
also stated that at a meeting of the group on November 17,
1963, Lopez stated that he had been refused travel back

He Sauda ot thee time Thot he Way Warts facia phone c ner
to Cuba, eho te Get Word On W's departure to Cond, 2

According to that report in March, 1964,
@ member of the Tampa FPCC stated that she called

a friend in Cuba on December 8, 1963 and was told that
Lopez had arrived safely. The member had attempted to
locate Lopez in Cuba through friends there beccause Lopez
had not delivered gifts to persons ip. Cuba from people
(38 he had promised to do,
in Florida. The member stated also that the Tampa chapter
Ane
of,FPCC had given Lopez approximately $190 for the return
Sty Sort
trip to Cuba. The member seafah that Lopez had gone to Cuba
3
by way of Mexico because he did not have a passport
“ The March 1964 F.B.I. reported listed Lopez's passport
as #310162, which had been issued in January, 1960 and his 53
issued Nov. 20, 1963 in Tampa.
Mexican tourist card as "M8-24553. It stated that Lopez
entered Mexico by private auto at Nuevo Laredo on November 23,
1963 and departed for Havana on November 27 as the only

ce
passenger omCubana flight, carrying a Cuban courtesy visalY

According to the F.B.I. file, Lopez's mother, Esperanza
bo -

Rodriguez, was born in Key West, Florida. The file listed

three cousins and four uncles who resided and worked in the


oy
Key West area with their families.

from the Tampa office
Lopez's F.B.I. file contains a memo’ dated October 26,1964

which states:

It is felt that information developed
regarding the subject is not sufficient
to adared consideration for the Security
Index. bey]

The only information transmitted by the F.B.I. to the
Parrot Commiasson on Lopez concerned a check at the Passport
Office. The information the Bureau did send to the Commis-
sion about the Tampa chapter of the FPCC did not include

oy
any information on Lopez's activities. The C.I.A. apparently

did not provide any information on Lopez to the Warren
As portent out tA the Sencte report,
Commission.,q®his omission is made more egregious by the

fact that sources had reported within a few days of Lopez's
and of the assassination
departure for HavanaAthat the circumstances surrounding his

«
travel seemed “suspicious and that in March, 1964, while
poet Under ujosy inks.
the Warren Commission was Asatte its work into the wevecti gaticn ot
the assassination, that Lopez had reportedly been involved in

the Kennedy assassination. =



In the 1977 report of the Inspector General of the
C.I.A., the Agency attempted to refute several "inaccuracies"
in the Senate report regarding the reporting on Lopez's
travel. That is apparently the only follow-up by the Agency
on the lead after the Senate report appeared.

In the first place, the Inspector General's report
corrected the statement in the Senate report that sources
reported that Lopez Bleedete "suspicious" when he was

2
surveilled in Mexico. The IG report explained that the

internal C.I.A. document of December siNhich characterized

the man as suspicious was merely "cryptic and impressionistic

rather than constituting a tangible basis for dramatic

bey

activity or final conclusions."
The report stated additionally that the March 19, 1964

cable from the Monterrey base which recounted the information

on Lopez from the contact of the Mexican police and claimed

Lopez was involved in the assassination was incorrect on

several points: Lopez 's name was misspelled "Lopes"; it

stated that Lopez entered Mexico on foot when the C.1.A.

repeated the F.B.I.'s conclusion that he had traveled by

auto; it gave incorrect digits in Lopez's passport number;

it stated that the Mexican tourist visa was issued in

Nuevo Laredo and not Tampa; and it reported that he

stayed at the Cuban See on these inaccuracies,

the Inspec$br General Gomme that "the source patently

was extensively misinformed." Based on that observation,

the Inspector General completely discounted the cable


by the Deputy Chief of Station in Mexico City on March 29,
1964 that the Mexican police source information "jibed"
with what had earlier been reported by the C.I.A.'s source.

Presumably the discrepancies pointed out by the
Inspector General are meant to explain the fact that the
C.I.A. did not take more aggressive investigative steps
to ascertain whether there might have been some connection
between Lopez and the assassination. In that regard the
1977 Inspecotr General report explains that the Agency .
had no other means of investigating Lopez at his disposal
and had carried the lead as far as it was able by questioning
a Cuban defector about Lopez. Wh’le the fact of the C.I.A.'s
lack of access to further information about Lopez may well
be the case, that fact does not explain either the failure
of the C.I.A. to. take more seriously the suspicions of the
sources, aa most importantly, to report whatever information
it had to the Warren Commission. In that regard, the attempts
of the Inspector General to denigrate the value if the
information provided on Lopez dows not diminisifthe -apparent
negligence of the Agency in seriously pursuing the information
as it was received. The Agency is not to be faulted for the
strength of its intelligence gathering, but rather for
the judgment which kept that intelligence from the governmental
body, the Warren Commission, which was mandated to pass
on the strength of exactly that kind of information.

From the information collected by the F.B.I., there

Lop ex's

appears to be well-explained reasons both for wA® desire


to return to Cuba and his solicitation of the help of
a local FCC chapter for that travel. His contacts in
Florida appear on their face to be innocent and non-
political and not in any way connected with the assassi-
nation. Despite the suggestion by the Senate report of
suspicion in the fact that Oswald "may" have been in
touch with that same FPCC chapter, no evidence appears
actuekly :
to suggest that Oswald was,in touch with the Tampa FPCC,
or that Lopez was connected in any way with Oswald or
Dallas.

Despite what is now known about Lopez, the Warren
Commission may well have wanted to lay to rest suspicions
which would remain about Lopez, and satisfy itself that
these circumstances in no way indicate foreign involvement
in the assassination. The C.I.A. has contributed to those
suspicious by not airing the matter and explaining
circumstances which could shed light on otherwise sinister
appearing events.

The Committee has documented instances where the
c.t.a. est to forego passing information to the
Warren Commission out of a desire to not lay bare extremely
sensitive sources and methods of intelligence. mae(zrr1e_)
operation certainly falls within that category and as sson
as the C.I.A. began receiving information char urerR: ras
the source of the information about Lopez's travel, the
cables andwaessages reflected the desire to not reveal that

method. It also seems plausible that the F.B.I. likewise

chose not to divulge what it had learned about Lopez, because


in doing so it would have had to reveal the sensitive C.I.A.
‘
operation which generated the initial information on Lopez's

travel to Cuba on November 27.
