180-10072-10276)

JFK Assassination System i Date:

Identification Form

9/21/201

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

HSCA
180-10072-10276

NUMBERED FILES.

008140

Document Information

HSCA
DEA

05/08/1978
8

HEMMING, C.P. POLITICAL & SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES.
DEA, FILES.

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT.
Unclassified

3

Redact

09/27/1996

Box 149.

v9.

HW 50955 Docld:32245218 Page 1


we, JFK Routing

document 1.D.

INDEX

ternrseg OE

OCA ____

slip 908140

a QUISDE CONTACT REPORT

Ropert-Bials
cary Cornwell

er
“Charlie Mathews
Jim Wolf...
PES BadesMgs
Jackie Hess
Cliff Fenton
Mike Ewing
Team #1

Team #2
Cran By “SS
S&
,
Team #4 Sr
Team#5

Form #2

HW 50955 Docld:32245218 Page 2


( KING or KENNEDY

: {Circle one)
| ‘ OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

008140

|
| pare May 5 TIME
|

re Identifying Information:

Name DEA : Telephone

Address

Type of Contact: Telephone
| XXX person

|
| Ir. Summary of Contact:
j

Attached find copy of Summary of Hemming files reviewed _

at. DEA

Til. Recommended Follow-up (if any):

Sanmary, inclaited tn Kerrassing pitas Govte_

Signature: was
\

HW 50955 DocId:32245218 Page 3



4 2/16/78
a pe P.M.ORR

ecru HEMMING FILES -- DEA SUMMARY

oO During the course of an investigation of Benton F. Thomas,
DEA undercover agents were also able to work up a case against
Hemming based:.on Hemming's presence at three meetings where
plans for smuggling cocaine were discussed. Hemming was arrested
August 23, 1976 and found gulity of conspiracy to smuggle
cocaine and marijuana on November 23, 1977.

Part of Hemming's defense was an attempt to show that
Hemming was actually working in cooperation with the DEA,
naming Lucien Conein as his contact. Conein documented his
contacts with Hemming, which began in May 1975, when Hemming
just "showed up" at Conein's office with information on drug-
trafficking. During the WerBebl-Nardi trial in September 1976,
Hemming visited Conein daily while Conein was hospitalized
with a stroke. He passed a "resume" to Conein before Conein's
departure from Miami, which contained "code words, cryptonyms,
and pseudonyms" unknown to Conein, in an effort to make it
appear. that he had a prior contact relationship with the DEA
through Conein. Unfortunately, the Hemming file did not include
a copy of the above-referenced "resume."

Investigative reports show that Hemming may have obtained
the contraband while on a mission of mercy to Honduras sponsored
by Soldier of Fortune magazine, then smuggled the narcotics to the U.S.
in a DC-3. The narcotics allegedly came from Colombia.

From the files it appears that’ Hemming is mainly interested
in arms-smuggling, while Thomas was more directly involved. in narcotics.

oO (Hemming only attended three of the twenty meetings. with Thomas
and DEA undercover agents). The undercover agents were also able
to obtain background information on Hemming, Thomas and their
operations such as the following:

~~ Hemming claimed to be part of a larger “organization”
and have excellent connections in Latin America. He
said 99% of the money and equipment going to Colombia
was actually used to combat guerilla activity. Since
Congress would never condone aid to South American
countries earmarked toward the settling of internal
conflicts, asistance must therefore be ostensibly provided
for narcotic interdiction, but actually used for
other purposes. High government officials in South
America receive bribes to protect major drug traffickers.
The “head man" in a country neighboring Colombia is
directly involved in facilitating drug smuggling,
according to Hemming. Thomas said the smuggling
organization was semi-military in nature and organized
along military lines.

-- Hemming and Thomas, who met in the Belgian Congo where
they both served as soldiers-of-fortune, work for
Techpol Security, ostensibly a detective agency which
also specializes in wiretapping, reportedly for black-
mail purposes. Those with connections to this
von organization include: Robert Rebozo, Alfredo Durant,
CO a Major Zamora of Miami City PD, and Anselmo Aliegro,
long-time associate of Hemming.

-- Other associates of Hemming mentioned in the file
include Howard K. Davis (noted in an investigative

HW 50955 DocId:32245218 Page 4


HEMMING -~..DEA FILES SUMMARY page 2

Oo report of Anthony Acceturo) and Mitchell WerBell.

~~ Allegedly the source for the narcotics is Carlos
Caraballo of Miami.

-- Thomas is reportedly an associate of every major

smuggler in the South Florida area and an associate
of Carl Louis Coppola.

Hemming files also identify two "former DEA agents...

now employed by another U.S. government agency" as

and Thomas_Briggs. Other information (source not now recalled)
indicates had been with the CIA.in the early '60's.

O

HW 50955 Docld:32245218 Page 5


©

O

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING

FILES! OF THE DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION

MAIN COMPUTER PRINTOUT:

FILE #

FILE #

"12/75 Subject suspect of illegal activity under guise of mercy missions

to Latin America. Subject rented DC-3 aircraft twice during December
1975. 12/75 GI subject and Benton plan to smuggle 15 tons marijuana
from CB to HD via A/C and then to US by ship.

01/76 GI subject present during negotiations between Benton F. Thomas and

special agent on 1/9/77, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., re 6 KG cocaine.

06/76 GI per confidential informant, subject ised mercy flights to HD

to smuggle 5 tons marijuana to U.S.

09/76 GI subject arrested 8/23/76, Miami, Pla., for smuggling cocaine.

AP on 8/20/76 Ins/Tecs L/O 176-0813 placed on subject req. GI.

12/77 Subject found guilty by Federal jury, Miami, Fla., 11/23/77 of

conspiracy to smuggle cocaine and marijuana. (GI - 75 0285)"

GI 75-0285 dated 2-1-77 to -----

Defendant position; status report for Benton F. Thomas. Involved with
Benton Franklin Thomas, DOM 9/2/25. Joseph Thomas Olivetti. DOB 11/4/33.
for cocaine/marijuana smuggling. Any questions - contact S/A Robert G.
Fredericks at FTS 820-4900.

Teletype 19 Aug 77
Re: Benton Thomas - as per instructions of Ausa Shrouse,
and Thomas Briggs, fromer DEA employees and now employed by another U.S.
government agency, are needed for trial in the above referenced case.
pre-trial scheduled for 8/22/77.

Teletype 17 Aug 77
Re: Hemming ~ Sherouse instructs that Lucien Conein will be necessary
for trial in the above case.

Teletype 17 Aug 77
Re: Hemming - Sherouse instructs that S?A? John Andrejko will be

necessary for trial in the above case.

GI 75-0285 dated 11-22-75 to 1-30-77

Memo 6/16/76 from David W. Costa (DEA) to Phillip R. Smith, requesting
Conein document all past contacts with Hemming. Advises against
future contacts with HEmming.'

Letter 9/16/76 from Davis W. Costa to US Attorney Robert W. Rust,

Re: Hemming - Advises Hemming defendant in DEA conspiracy case then
pending trial. Advises Conein an employee of DEA's office of intelligence
at Washington, DC. Conein recently in MIami under subpoena as a

defense witness in the Mitchell Werbell trial. Conein became ill

during the trial and was hospitalized as reflected in attached

documents, defendent Hemming visited Conein while he was in the

hospital. As Mr. Conein was boarding a flight to return to Washington,
defendent Hemming approached him and gave him a document which appears

to be a resume of Hemming's activities over the past several years.

HW 50955 Docld:32245218 Page 6


ef
HEMMING FILES -- DEA -- cont'd page 2

Conein staes that receipt of the document was a complete surprise
i to him.

AUSA Ferguson advised DEA 9/16/76 that Hemming's defense counsel
has stated that HEmming has been cooperating with Conein and
this alleged cooperation will be a part of Hemming defense.

~- Affidavit of Lucien Conein re: Hemming .
From March 74 to August 74, Conein acting Chief of Special Operations
and Field Support Staff, Office of Intelligence, DEA.

Hemming never employed by Special Operartions and Field Support
Staff of Office of Intelligence, DEA. Conein never authorized funds
or signed vouchers to pay Hemming. Never solicited information
or gave Hemming missions, tasks, etc.

May 1975 Hemming appeared at DEA Headquarters. Conein brought him
to his office, where he learned Hemming wanted to give some information
on narcotic drug trafficking. wanted to discuss Miami-Carribean

area. SA Briggs, brought in for Hemming debriefing. Hemming's
appearance at DEA at this time unsolicited by Conein or staff.

Conein did not see or talk to Hemming again until after hospitalization
in Miami's VA Hospital for stroke on September 3, 1976.
Everyday after hospitalization Conein visited by HEmming. Told Conein
on 9/4/76 that Werbell found not guilty. Told Conein on 9/5 that
WerBell returned to Georgia and said that WerBell said he was not

CO) going to get himself involved in any other adventures.

On 9/6 Hemming asked how his brother could apply for a position with
DEA. Conein said he would have to apply through the Miami regional
office. Asked GPH to write his brother's name and address in his
address book. Hemming asked if he had read the latest Soldier of
Fortune magazine.

visits on 9/7 and 9/8 discussed Soldier of Fortune.

On 9/9/76 Mattocks took Conein to airport for trip to Washington.
Hemming came up to him and gave him an envelope saying, “Here's a
resume for you." Conein surprised Hemming knew time of his departure.
Conein thanked him, assuming the resume pertained to his brother.

Conein read resume, doesn't understand why it was given to him.
Contains code words, crytponyms, pseudonyms used by Hemming which are
unfamiliar, never used by Conein's staff, not part of intelligence
reports submitted to Special Operations and Field support staff of
Office of Intelligence from March 74 to August 76 when staff function
abolished. (file did not include a copy of the Hemming "resume").

-- Copy of page from address book with name of Robert Hemming.

-- Letter 9/16/76 to "Colonel" from Hemming re: application to DEA
by Robert Hemming.

O

-- Internal memo 9/17/76 from Irvin C. Swank to David Costa re:
Hemming passport - current passport PPT # F1904724 issued 9/23/74
Miami. Valid thru 9/22/74. Previous passport #6234-934, expired
March 13, 1971.

HW 50955 Docld:32245218 Page 7


2

HEMMING FILES ~- DEA -- cont'd Page 3

Passport apllication reveals: Travel Plans to depart 9/29/74 to
io) Dominican Republic and Bhhamas for 14 days on business. No information
re: previous trips. Plans other trips abroad within one year.

~- DEA case report of Robert G. Fredericks. 8/9/76. Meeting at
Stumpy's Cocktail Lounge 1/7/76 with Thomas and DEA agents.
Discussion of delivery of cocaine and marijuana. Meeting 1/9
with Thomas and DEA, plus Hemming. Discussed delivery of cocaine.
Meeting 1/13/76 with SA's Williams, Fredericks with Benton Thomas
and Hemming, ‘Thomas said Hemming close associate in smuggling
operation.
Meeting 1/19/76 with Herbert Williams, Fredericks meet Thomas at
Mama Lou's Restaurant.
Meetings in March not attended by Hemming.except on 3/31. ‘Thomas
and Hemming meet SA's Frederick and Armando Marin to discuss delivery
of 3 KG's cocaine, 25 tons marijuana.
Meetings from March to August 1976 not attended by Hemming except
8/23/76 in meeting with Thomas, Olivetti, Jack Dean Cline, when
all were arrested.
19 meetings total between Thomas and SA's.

-- Miscellaneous:
Source of supply for Benton Thomas - Carlos Caraballo.

-- Investigative report on Benton Thomas et al 7/23/76 ~ Michael
Rebozo name mentioned (nephew of Bebe) Confidential informant
stated that about 1977 he, Mike Malloy and Rebozo terminated
dealings with Robert Caivano (suicide 5/26/74) because Caivano
had become a "rip-off artist" involving people in these deals
who carried guns and threatened violence should anything go
wrong. Bill Burgin, Dae County School Investigator feels
Rebozo still engaging in some illegal activity. Appears at
times with unusual large sums of cash.

6)

Richbourg Fisheries a "frafficante operation" according to
Sgt Mike Jones, Gainsville, P.D. Fish storage business at
Cedar Key, Fla. Formerly owned by Frank Merger.

Report 6/15/76 by D.L. Greagor (Colorado)
During mercy mission to Honduras subsequent to 9/18/74 hurricane,
members of Parachute Medical Rescue Service PMRS sponsored by
Soldier of Fortune magazine under the direction of Hemming and
George Speakman. MIssions to parachute personnel into devastated
areas of Honduras in order to provide medical attention to people
in these inaccessible areas.

Source advised G/S Mel B. Ashton and SA D.L.Greagor that Hemming,
Speakman, Gilmore Sinms,;pilot of DC-3 that made drop actually
had little to do with performing mission. Speakman , Simms, Hemming
disappeared with DC-3 for approximately 5 days. These subjects
closely associated with Armando Bolet+Suarez. Dr. John Peters,
~ Norwood, Colorado believed to be with others for several days. Believed
O to have smuggled approximately 5 tons of marijuana into the U.S.

Report 4/8/76 by Fredericks.
Meeting 4/5/76 between SA's Fredericks, A. Marin and Thomas. Fredeggéks

HW 50955 Docld:32245218 Page 8


HEMMING FILES -- DEA -- cont'd Page 4

~ told Thomas that he was apprehensive about meeting with Hemming
O because of April 76 Argosy magazine article on Hemming and Miami
Herald Tropic Section April 4, 1976 with photo. Notriety could
bring attention and compromise transaction. Thomas said he was
upset about HEmming's behavior; will keep Hemming in background.
Will get another captain for vessel. Hemming knew all about the
plan. Hemming recently conned someone out of money as an advance
for a book, which resulted in the publicity.

Report 4/6/76 by Fredericks.

Meeting 3/31/76 with Hemming, Thomas, Fredericks, Marin, unidentified
male. Hemming said smuggling organization of which he and Thomas
were members, concerned about security of the operation.

Hemming making arrangements to see boat in Panama, which will be
used as collateral for $20,000 loan from Fredericks to Thomas.
Hemming said he didn't want boat identified becasue Fed agents placed
transponders on bottoms of suspect vessels. Hemming didn't feel

it was warranted for Fredericks and Marin to see boat. Hemming

said boat belonged to “organization! Stressed main consideration

for all transactions was security. People “down south" would wait
until all details worked out before load would be delivered.

Captain had decided job offer involving activities in Africa in order
to handle this losd for Thomas and his associates. Hemming warned
Thomas against saying too much. Added that at least 50% of crew

would be “their people" -- that way they had greater control.
Fredericks asked Hemming how he could be sure load wouldn't be seized
@ in S. America. Hemming replied that 99% of money and equipment

going to Colombia actually used to combat guerilla activity. Since
Congress would never condone aid to S. American countries earmarked
toward settling of internal conflicts, assistance must therefore be
ostensibly provided for narcotic interdiction, but actually used

for other purposes. Hemming said high government officials in

South America receive bribes to protect major drug traffickers.

Said that "head man in the country neighboring Colombia is directly
involved in facilitating drug smuggling. $. American authorities
compiling statistics to please U.S. authorities by arresting "free-
lance operators" and seizing their loads. Well connected groups have
nothing to fear from L. American authorities. Fredericks inquired

as to quality of Hemming's contacts in Latin American government.
Hemming replied that they were the best possible. ‘Thomas added that
Hemming's connections were good due to Hemming's extensive experience
in S. America.

Hemming said it would be strictly boat operation. Dummy corporation
could be set up to avoid problems if trouble arose and ties between
Marin, Frederciks, and Thomas' $20,000 loan were found. Delivery time
30 days after payment of $20,000. Hemming refused to allow them

to meet captain but would look into other ways to reassure Fredericks
that plans were going correctly.

Report 4/6/76
Meeting 3/26/76 with Fredericks, Williams. Thomas having difficulty
— with delivery in $80,000 plan. Had a 57 ft vessel in Panama. Boat
@) would hleave Panama fo pick-up 25 tons of marijuana. Needed $20,000
additional to pay captain. Boat worth $65,000.For extra $20,000
from Williams, Thomas would put boat up as collateral. Would pick up
at least 3 KG's of cocaine for Williams. The boat would bring the

HW 50955 Docld:32245218 Page 9


Peete HEMMING -- DEA —- cont'd page 5

O load to a certain point; Thomas would then retrieve cocaine
and smuggle it into U.S. for Williams.
Thomas arranging for contract to take aerial photographs
over Latin America. ith legitimate business front, would have
no difficulty obtaining necessary State Department visas to
travel extensively and fly B23 without arousing official curiousity.
SA's believe Costa Rican contact is Morris Clinton Henson, owner
of "Vagabond" yacht.

-- Report 4/8/76 p. 6 of 96
Hemming information NADDIS #310145
WM; DO BO3/01/37; 6'6"; 232 1bs
1121 Jann Ave. Opa Locka, Fla. FH #100 629 E; Miami PD #77255;
Key Wst PD #6221
Alleged to be soldier of fortune and arms smuggler; associate of
Enton Thomas; employed by Techpol Security; licensed to carry
firearms.
Techpol Security: NADDIS #459914
801 Madrid Suite 105
Coral Gables, FL Tel 305/443-9681
446-8379
Employer of Hemming and Thomas

-- Meetings
1/13/76 Thomas, Williams, Fredericks
@ p. 77v
Dec. 1975 to date
Hemming proto-type "soldier of fortune" has appeared with Thomas
at under-cover meetings with DEA agents on 1/13, 1/19/76. Actively
involved with Thomas in smuggling venture; believed to be Thomas’
associate in running arms and ammunition out of U.S. @. 89)
Thomas known associate of Coppola and alleged associate with
every major amuggler in South Florida area. Has admitted to DEA under-
cover agents that he utiliaes his B25 and boat for snuggling
ventures, In addition, believed he and Hemming smuggle arms out
of US. Coppola = Carl Louis Coppola)

~- Miscellaneous:
bb Carswell - WM - resides in Miami, owners of vessel "Empress III"
NADDIS 36-532 for delivery of marijuana to U.S. from Colombia,

-- Investigative report 1/21/76 by Fredericks
Re: Thomas
Discussion at meeting 1/13/76, Said Thomas'. smuggling organization
was semi-military in nature and organized along military lines.
Mentioned Jerry Hemming, who Thomas said was a close associate. He
met Hemming in Rlgian Congo, when both involved in mercenary
activities. Gave business card for Texas Aerial Surveys, Inc.

-- Investigative Report 2/19/76 by Wlliams

Re: Thomas

‘o) Thomas stated Techpol is a detective agency that specializes in
personal bodyguard activities for those who need this type of
protection. Indicated that telephone wire intercepts could be
made available to U/C agents if needed.
Phone # 305/763-2499 published to June Thomas, wife of Benton.

HW 50955 Docld:32245218 Page 10


’ HEMMING FILES -- DEA -- cont'd page 6

la Search of list of phone calls“revealed 7 telephone calls to
O 305/446-8379 published to.Anselmo Aliegro and Roberto Rebozo,

801 Madrid St., Coral Gablés,' ‘FL.

Techpol detective agency owned by Roberto Rebozo and Miami.
attorney Alfredo Durant,’ specializing in bodyguard activities

and special wiretaps, according to a DEA source. Special wire-
taps allegedly used to blackmail participants involved in
conversation. Source said Eagle Trucking, 290 SW 8th ST, Suite 304,
Miami, associated with Techpol, but dummy corporation. Eagle
formerly Parabellum Corporation located at 305 Jose Marti dg,

290 SW8th St, Miami. Hemming allegedly manager of Eagle Trucking.
A City of Miami Police Department Major somewhat connected to
Techpol, according to source. Major's name is Zamora - alleged
owner of one or 2 other detective agencies. Associates of Techpol
frequent Centro Vasco lounge on 2235 S$ k 8th St, Miami, FL

: -- Miscellaneous

i Carlos Caraballo

: 1395 SW70 Ave Called 3 times
Miami Tel. 261-9882

: C & C International

: 2439 NW33 Ave Called 10 times
Miami
Tel 638-7988

O

1 FILE GF AS - 76 ~ 800 1

FROM PALMER NOTES :

-- Letter dated April 18, 1977 to Gerald Patrick Hemming, 1121 Jann Ave,
Opa Locka, FL 33054 in teference to 1/13/77 FOIA/Privacy Act request.
No record of information requested found in DEA central indices.

-- Report of Investigation 9/13/76 Anthony Acceturo

#GF G I 76-4072

Report re: Status of Olympic Trade Lines investigaiton

Details:

Howard K. Davis is currently a pilot for Olympic. Davis is a known

drug suspect and was arrested in 1963 for neutrality violations

with para-military Cubans at Key West, FL

Synopsis: Report deals with information collected activities of
; suspects associated with Olympic Aviation Co, a subsidiary of
Olympic Trade Lines and the Enton Thomas and Mitchell Yr B11
investigations.

It is interesting to note that SGI 5-0115 and Howard K. Davis
were integral parts of the knton Thomas conspiracy investigation.
Also, Howard K. Davis was arrested with Gerald Hemming, co-de-
fendant with Bnton Thomas, in Key West in 1963 for neutrality

aa violations. The association between Coppola, Thomas, Caivano
and Hemming is doumented in Miami RIU M.O.R. on Enton Thomas,
et al, GI 75-0285
Hemming is past associate of Mitchell Wr B11, III and was recently
summoned by the defense in the Wrbell-Nardi trial.

HW 50955 Docld:32245218 Page 11
