# 180-10143-10201

## Page 1

180-10143-10201

[ COM/LENTIM

11110741

Leslie Wizelman

3GC File

E. HiHunt-Summary

3/10/78

Box 28

Puldlu40

#2

The EGG file covers the period fraca July 4, 1965. to

June 19, 1922

Ine file containe the fallousag documents and intormatico:

DA comract between the Agency and sHaltund, eltective

July 4, 1965.

1619,580 per ann

Employs Hoot as

"contras empayce".

animemo fur 06C from chet of contract personnel Division,

dated August 3, 19605 subiest: Retention of/royalties bya

contract employce states tat Hunt

"well apparently duelof

al cover as aireteca, | Reuests opinion reganding

_retention af

Loyaltie sint frony earn

B- memo fur Cher of contract Personnel Division from

Office of General counsel, dated Aug 1a, 1965. refretention

of royalties. J'We belieue that Hunt i entitled toretain such

(royaltes without an offset against his Agency salary" "Wehave

been adulsed by mel

we/suppart, that enemanes I

cover does pet include the (cole af a writer; Hunt's cover

for status sill only be a light one at a retired Foreign Service

(otfrier." )

from Chief, Covert Claims Branch to Chief, Contract

Personnel Drussin, dated Sept 3, 1965. attie recommended deletion ot

oftset paragraph in Hunt's contract. Acknowledges the oGLepinion

whch determined Hunt may retain without Agency salary oftset

any tuture royalties Jeaned as a resultat his ulterary elfartsf based on

the fact cover does not nalude role at a winter."

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

1 00

1 80-10143-10201

---

## Page 2

11110212

2 Hunt 545505959

Chief

S- mema tram-contract amplayees Accounts section to.

Chief, Western Europe Dussion, dated oct 13, 1965, Reports that

Thora 1s no recocd of receipt of duty status Reports fuc

_Hunt since his SOD y July 1965. Reports are required in order

to mantáis his leave account in accordance with the terms

of: his contract

memo on suren of page ta compensatos

and Tax Divisin tram chief or suppurt, we Divisions "Per

conversats with

me thomas Faramessnes, ADDP , there will beno

Outy status Reports onbmitted on Hust. This should be

used as the authority ta cantique his pay without

these reports."

@memo fur Dep. Director fur support to Acting Chief,.

western Europe Division dated Nou 8, 1965

Hunt has

requested reliet on housing costs. "4, que to the operational

sensitivity af Hunt's assignment, his request fur relief on his

housing costs was handled by me. thomas kacamessine.on

15 sept 1965, mr. Karamessines, approued hi beingrembursca

00 a 75/2500 basis far the

excess allowable costs up to,

but not to exceed, 6o do above his quarters allowance.

@ memo, dated Feb1, 1974 ra General Gaylor's recollections

tak regarding his knowledge of the writings of mr tunt andany

official who might be aware of the urcumstances at any agency

involvement in that effort. a. "the became aware that Hunt,

while in wh, was accomplishing a steady flaw at spy books, and

...that. securityapproval was. not being requested on the

manuscrists beture submissión to publishers. Gen.-Gaynor

-aduised that longent he caused the issue "up front"

- on several

---

## Page 3

11110303

-3-

occasions. The reactor he recesed to his raising the issye

was that "keep your stinking nose out af thi business.?

He stated that he was lead to believe that me Helms desired

to

improve the image of the intelligence protession and that

Agency and that Hunt's books were a part of the program

to do so. He stated that he was never told outright that this

was the case, but the responses he, received lead him

to belleve this was the caie."

He suggested two peaple una might clear the issuer

Ray Rooca and -walter fferzbeimer "both af whom were involved

•in the "image" materials. "Hestated that Pfurzheimer seemed to be

aware of all the details - on on up to date basis - of Hurtis departure

from the Beney to join the public relation fina is the degree

that ben. Gayner gained the belief that Hunt was merely

moving his desk outside the building but being pald by the

sane

beture

Also

Feb 6,1924- memo - On Feb 4, 1924- Parzheimer war

interviewed. " This interrew was undertaken

_anerfert to

determine, mr. tust had acted any capacity in cooperation

with counter Intelligence aperations, When Pfarzheimer discovered

Hunt had waten On Hazardow Duty i he called karamessines.

Mal recalled that from the nature of me karamessines

reaction that he had uncovered a sensitive mutter af senior

officer concern:" Within 5 minutes, Helms. called Pfurchermer

who remembers the substance of the conversation being "fr christ

sake walter, thy is the first bosk to comealong and say

TE TIM

---

## Page 4

11/10741

something good about the agency." "Why not have the Goddam

thing alone'" mrip believed that Helms or karamessines

could answer the queston at whether Hunt had Agency

-sponsorship for his bookr..

Me: The memo states that Hunt

was assigned to the office of the Deputy Director for Operation

1n- Feb 19605.

The first bock was published duang 1961.

June i96s - through seat 19ll, tint was assigned to

as a contract agent.

i: 191060- 3 books appeared.

1967= 1600k

1968, 1969, 1971, 81978-1 book/ys

Afil 30, 1970- Hunt altically retired as an Agency statt

emplajee. " The office at seccity records did nut develop any

indication that any of the

Daud St. John. manuserpts

were ever submitled fur revrew in accordance with Agency

regulations.

a- memo tur record - Feb 6, 1974 "Subj: Possible Agency

Sponsorship ot the Daulc stJohn Novelsia

A conference

was held with peuple from the IG offre. " the speculation

was entertained that mr k Howard Hunt had, In fact, been under

Agency sponseship.with the knowledge of mr Richard Helms

in his preparation at a series of spy novels under the

-pseudonym, David st.John. It can be accepted as a reasunable

_suppositics that mr. turk had some bighty compartmented

_financial arrangement authorized by senur Agency officials

to write there books, then it is likely that this relationship

_continued after mrettunt officially, retired." "minutes from the

office of Legislative Cunsel: made references tu a cuncern of

-Senator Baker over an alleged: financial relationship between

---

## Page 5

T:?!

11310745

5-

ma Helms and mortunt which continued subsequent to meltunt'!

formal retirement.

" Baker made reference to a payment

(of some $30,000 jwith the parenthetical comment that

me Heims would nut have that amount of money from his

-pavale Minds A Employee of Io staff

opinioned that. "if

the agency had sponsored the stiJohn books it was likely

that mr tunt had so informed Senatur Baker.

O Intervies with Rayond Bocca - Feb 14, 1974- Asked about

financing us Hunt. "mr Roccar responded "on the record" that he

has no knowledge of any such arrangements no at any time wal

-he party to any assistance of er any requests tarassistance

to mr Hunt, " Ventured opinion that "in all probabelity an officia!

acquiescence on the part at senior officials might have been

mudlued rather than :

an afficial sponsorshis.

D interuew with chief, contract Personnel Diuisen.

15 Feb 1974, Stated that " although it was not commos

practice it was nut entrely unusual for highly sensitive

cuntracts to be administered without the cuntracting

otficer being aware of the operational objective muolved."

@ interwem with former chief of supect, western European

DUISLUA- 1985 Date: 15 Fes 1924. Askedre Hunt's actruities in 1965

froos his recollection it was Hunt's habit to deal onkywith

the most senior officer available. " He was never briefed on the

-purpose of matunt's poission.

1 GOR

K

---

## Page 6

- 6-

11110946

( memo sur record dated al FeD 1974, 1e osfice os

Finance Recoras- E. Howard Huint."

Hunt-departed DeG.on 5 hug 1965 and arnued

Jos

16 Aug 1965. Hunt was

paid througs an account at the Riggs

Luat BankinD.c. IAn operatiunal accit was estabished fuemr. Hurt

_with Chase manhattan, j"shere was no record of anyaperatinal

accounts or advances being processed thraugh thu channel. mr

sale stated that this fact defined nis cuncern. He fest thatit ?

was inconcewable that mr tunt could haue undertaken

operational actvity unthout some transfer of or accounting

for funds." To date, nosich recordi: have been developed.

No reference to a project or project digrans or operational

FAN number has been Located " AlLexpensei connected with

15-7

ne tuat

identited to date were charged to the

upport A semens made al

indicated any "Developmental and Target of upportunity (D&TO"

funds er"other specational Activity (Q0A)" fund expended

by ac on behalf at ma dunt. There two accounts would

nurmally be the source of operational funding not charged

against a specific project activity"" A review af travel vouchers

also farlec to deatity a project..

There was a voucher tur

atrip to pa la saturn tol

Jans-s, 1906. The voucher

states in the space providec for the atata of the travel order

number-"no travel order," Treaceounting was appraved and

signedoykarameshes.@no.unfication or statement of_purpose..

Mr. Yale noted that the royalty offset waiver prouisin amended

_to runt's contract was, in his experience, somewhat unusual.

ML-3

1 00

---

## Page 7

11710042

The office of finance Director stated that from his expenience,

mr.karamessines would have delegated all the arranging of "details"

-surrounding an assigamert such as matunt to me

Employer

He ottered nis surprue "at what se interpreted to be reticence to date

to underrew mr.

Smoloyee

I memo fir oscard. al feb 1974 subj: watecgate.

Eiiployees

- Mr

sensed June, 1972. Prur to reticement ne

was an affiar in the External Employment Assistance Branch

Retirement Actuiter Dussin of the othie of Personnel. He was tu assiit

in finding post-retirement enaployment. He had been instrumental in the

placement ot Hurt in the Rüberk mullen prifem. Ine ptan

Prior to wocking fur Personnel

served with the central

cover staft in the area dealing with the funding of covert action

projects He had become familar with actuite.

Hunt wobile

óy el.

Lunt functuned on the Covert Acturtes Staff.)

a first camie

in contact with mullen company when he was attemnting to

handle the public relatum effort of alcouert Agency activity

[known as the fEnce cuba cumnatiee.

"In aresponse to a questen as to unether or aut executzue level

interest was still being shown in ma Hunt's post-employment

awployee.

placement, matay recalled that Helms, then direltur, was listed

as a character reference an mr Hunt's resume and Helms signed

a letter of recommendation to the kennecott copper ca an Hunts behalk".

contact was maintained with meltunt at the muller Co. a0

au playee

a continuining basis, because mra

-wa interested in Dor.

Hunt for possible referrels (of ather Agency retrees), He also

---

## Page 8

11160243

ünderstood: there was cour and cummercial staff interest in the

mullen for, and that Me hunt. became instrumental in

discussing several aspects. of the cover -operations in bis

capacity as an afficer of the cumpany.

playee:

De tunt contactede

tan several occasions requesting referral.

of retiring Rgency emplayees with specific qualification -after Hunt

had joined the white House.

Recalleda request fir an induidual

the area

of locks and I surceptition entry.

It was

that the duties involued wouid include

the monitoring

of a listeriag device in an unduclosed locativa.

Hunt also requested a recimmendatin of a security service

organizaron so carry our an electronic countermeasures

"sweep.*

suspected the eléctronic cuuntermeasures sweep

was to be carried out in the officer of the committee to Re-elect

Employee

the Pres.

was asked if he ever referred anyone tu milora

Association:

He had a.

recalled that at the time of Hint's

assignment to madrid the statement auseminated fur consumption

within the Agency was that. tunt was retung

This was not generally bellened. He was quite certain that during

this period his affice handled no project funding fir Hunt

On me Hunt's return to stalf employment the projects and tunding

which stopped in July 1965 were agap sumed.

aa Feb 1974- meeting with.

- He thaught it wai

enticaly passible Helmsd karamessines handled the Hust!

Journers

on their own. He didn' know anythns

Interulew with furmer Deuty Chief of Western European Divisun,

00P-a2 Feb 1914. He stated the assignment of mrattent to the

I"was handled without the bereft

---

## Page 9

0OR2E MI

dantel

'an?

11130219

of the routine processing procedures: through the western European

Diusion. Hunt's assignment was coordinated and directed by

Karamessines. * He was unaware of any specific project or

target for Hunt.

tunt produced postive intelligence on the Iberian.

target duang this perioch the officials responsible fur the offaals

responsible fur this effect within the western Eumpeda Divisica

were totally unaware of in

The mas. of info he had about Hünt

was bearsay, fac examale

acomment was made by a mitual

acquaintance to the ellect that Huntstated that while in

madred he was grag to "play golf and write books."

His personal opinion i that tuat had no opecational

funchen and

was simply granted the appucturity to wite books fur bus own

personal gain at gout experie

= memo fur the record, dated ao De 1973, conversatio

with Iberianfdesk in 1964.65..

"He was told by

Eur a wha nad beental by karamessinies: that Hunt was

to be assigned tol

Jas adirected assignment by Hems

The Ambassador would not have tuat in the Embary. After a couple

months d; he was told that Hunt was going ta spain under

DIt came to him

Hunt was to, naue the (pone if of the in varn sure can belmarder.

fout he would do nothing

for the

_unt was to submit administratzue vouchers for

reimbursement of his expenses & theywere to be paid. He knows

that there was no operatinal repartrig, ta indicate that Hunt was

doing anything

Inad told him that bediant know what

Hurt did

4

---

## Page 10

004

11110759

* 22 Fen 1924- search af Finance recuras to deermine is a$30 000

payment ts Hunt that required no accounting, could be found.

Eneckerrauel claims sur 1960-1972, Analyzed ituat's advance

account for yo in

Jand have determined. that

333, 500 was aduanced to him far travel and transportation

with one teo to facu ta renews visas. One stem appeared unusual _

an expenditure at 11,600 fura sensitue operatin which wai

approued for weide-off by

me. Desmond Fitzgerald on i JuDe1966

"Onestrange aspect of the men-orficial cover assignment in madrid

is that all the costs were charged to the support: allotment

of the EUR DIvision

which is not normal as(nos official

(coverfpeuple are usually assigned to the project. It isunusual

to have a case officer abroad for one year on an operationz!.

assignment without bim incurring aperational expenditures.

O memo dated 9 may 1924; by chief; OPS/OSG re "Watergate

File Research- Final Report" Recalls that there were occasonal inquiries

by am. cesidents off madrid) abaut the

repacted presence lin Sparo

of settettunt. Atno time did must contact him. There was sume into

in 19za cuncerning reported actutes in[Spain joy lubert vesco.

a 290ct 1924 memo from Dir, of Security - "Leaue records reflect that

for the four week pay perrod ending az November 1963 Mr. Hunt

took a total of 11 hours sick leave and no annual leave. In the

following four week pay period, be took 3 hours sick leave

and a7 hours annual leave. We are unable to further ideatly the

dates on wnich the above sick and annual leave were taken

Travel records reflect that meltunt cunducted no othcial travel

during the month of Nou. 1963."...

| C38

K

---

## Page 11

11000

AD

memo fur record, 20 sept 1934-by SiD: Breckinedge

"Hunt's" travel record spous atticial trauel in September;

travel was to New York. "

Acte an a cem gone but sane edeember shall of this

already know, as a result at response to previous requests

that we

have no recocds on sturgis that would show

similar informatin; he was not an agency employee.

"security prouded us with a column by Jack Anderson, of

16 April 1924, in which he covered the Hunt-sturgis rumur,

dumissing it.A copy of the news columns attached. This would

suggest that; rather than police photographs of persons

rounded up and booked, the phötograbbs in questiun are

random snapshots of crowds. If this is correct there would be

no related police fingerprint records that could bechecked

fur venticaticin

a memo fur Deputy Directer for administration frum Dir. öf

Security

subj: Shaltunt: Date 23 Oct 1974. DIscusies

allegation regarding Hunt # sturgis. "Mr. Sturges was not

associated with the Agency in any manner in November

1963.": FBI Liaison Officer interulewed Hint on DOct

1974 and Hunt aduved at that time that he bad learned

of the assassination of JFK "an his car radio while be

warina leave status

in the washingtun D.harea."!

23)

memo for the recurd, dated an December 1973 ay

_ Breckinridge.

Hunt was inthe DO Division and in Aug 1964

was assigned to the washe field athue] 'I gave → as a

possible press treatment that Hunt was engaged indumestic

operations (something senator Baker i pursuing) and that

REAL 1

OK

---

## Page 12

[ CONFERNAL 1

11110752

his assignment to spain fatter the election could be presented

as guing him time

cool att."

Background - 19 June 1922

Employed by che ham dou and untel his wasuntary

retirement an 30 apeil: 1970

SASS

1971 - serued as an adusocto Nixon- chen true.

"Subject o escurcent saterest 1ath3

Central Cover Statt

Dec jaso - assignee as Chiet as stamen mexico cans A

serued as chies of missin fehere until 1953

J, June 1914 10 Feb 1057

costl

Jantal early 1960

June 1960- assigned to mexico Sity-Jon Project- Bayoffige

N00

1961= reassegned to the Dof/covert Action staff

Jan 1967

30 affice af the Chief/DDe

July 1962 - 11

the DODS Researchand Publications

Section 1n washragtan

July 1964

one [DaDs cousct Actunstaft. )

Feb 1965

office of the DDP Loperatunt Group

June 1965- Seet Se0t centract agentf madad. J

Sent 1966a

"Chief af European Covert Operation unt!

-retirement 30 @prel 120

Dou 1910 - grantea a crest secucuty Aporaval tor

se buy lentoal Covec Staft @ mulle.

LIunelaza- Inquicy of Central cover stuff on 19 tune l47a

revealed that this is a current relationshop.

bectis see, file reflects that thunt in the past, has been at

ecatonal interest

to maJames Angleton.

---

