# 180-10141-10212

## Page 1

180-10141-10212

10/06/97

MON 17:13 FAX 202 724 0457

ARRE

8 008

v09-16-96ccI

JFK. RECORDS

Cross Reference: None.

Status La Sreten:

• AGENCY : ESCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10141-10212

RECORD SERIES

: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 13-09-43

Other Agency Equity:

DOCUMENT IN FORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ASCA

FROM

: CIA

• TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

DOCUMENT TYPE

SUEJECT (S)

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

Date in: 01/26/96

TTFFFFFF

F. F

F .FF FFF

03/09/78

42

NOTES

MEXICO CITY;. PHOTO RAPHS AND FILMS; CIA, FILES;

UNCLASSIFIED

POSTPONED IN PART

08/01/95

: Box 5

NN 47055

DocId: 32271016

Page i

---

## Page 2

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Rodger S. Gabrielson

OLC/CER

TO:

(Officer designation, room numbor, and

building)

RECRIVED

Don Gregg

SA/ DO/0

Tube: DX6-Greeni

DATE

EXTENSI IN

• 1133

OFFICE!'

INITIA S

FORWARDED

MAR 22

10-04 AN °78

OLC 78-1065/7

DATE

21 March 1978

ach comment to show from whe

i who Did i act a column to at of comman

Passed Stuctitle

2.

3.

•4.

5.

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

10.

18.

12.

13.

14.

15.

J-02

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

HH 47055 DocId: 32271016

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

OLC 18-1065/7

21 March 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Don Gregg

SA/DO/O

FROM

SUBJECT

: Rodger S. Gabrielson

OLC/C&R

: Sanitization of HSCA Researcher Notes

1. (S) Attached for your review, ap ropriate sanitization, and

classification is a copy of the notes taken b, HSCA researcher Dan

Hardway on the soft file on the unidentified man photographs and on the

file Pre-Assassinations - Mexico.

2• (U) Please use black grease pencil to excise and directly above

the excised information please write in a si nitized description of the

information excised, for example: employe, asset, etc. Please send

us a copy of the notes after your sanitization and we will forward to the

Committee.

3.

(U) Please send us a copy of the notes after your sanitization

and we will forward to the Committee.

All original notes will be kept in this

office under the name of the particular rest archer involved.

Attachment:

As Stated

SSORUT

1-1: 32363

NH 47055

DocId: 32271016

Page

3

---

## Page 4

This document i3 Not to be taken

Hay. Buildi

319178

SummARy: PRE- AiSASSiNAtiON; MEXiCO

I Russian Embassy transcript

+ General Olse vation

I. The name of the embassy appears

at the top of the finst pageaf.

on one phone) This is follage

ire means one daijs coverage.

big the number of the phon

covered: ( series of three

two digit nümbers) The

nest live sives the date of

the carerage. The nest live

jives the tape reel number

In some of the transcripto

of the transcripts the cite

to where the conversation

the be the nolan posit

the referenced conversa -

the Time

then her nally, thetime,

cind a notation as to

whether. it isan.incoming

at theogicall, feas

WARNING NOTICE

SECRET

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

we sell tann here moved From Has Bide.

---

## Page 5

SECRET

2

than literal transcriptions

This is mare trie of the

Spanish han the English

transerig homothisi,

and most of the English

Russianones, appeas to

to thoss places on the tape

where a conversation

appears in Russion These

4. On the English transcripts

(conversation hard been

Russianand/ov English) the

ribred oft nappeans after a

cite to the tape postage mumber.

these conise sations are not

in the tran scripts iie

WARNING NOTICE

& ECRET

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SCURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

NW 47055 Doold: 32271016 Page

---

## Page 6

SECRET,

-3-

examined. Eland deid a

areful cross-heferenci

emplyee

Employee

find those conversations

denatedas" previously trans-

cribed "Ous, cheak farted

of those

conversati

to tumn ug anthin askeal

about this

said

that he kind i nothing abort

it. He sua

stalking tot

5. Marginal Comments are not

ins-

infrequent in the english

transcripts The commento

seem to be of tivo types,

bath of which are setoff

from the text by slash

tarks i first type reimo

when the translator/transi

criber is i isure af a word,

dentity or, place In this

type the comment consists,

serenals a pardo

aquestion mark a itin

SEC RET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

NW 47055

DocId:32271016 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

4

the second it.

ye is longer.

commentile the convers

general area these are usuall

prefaced it th the word

omiment" Some eramples:

a notation falarmine

participants voice,

b commention the marital

relationship of a Russian

embassi, official (basedon

the observation that the

indeld using tone to a.

his wife):

c identifying a caller as

the sameasa man in

a previous conversation.

d substitutions for literal

transcriptions, i i. a note

saying there coan

e transling thangas;

f notes of background.

conversations;.

9 lility to sespathcipagta..

NEGRET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED.

NW 47055 DocId: 32271016 Page 7

---

## Page 8

D

emplayee

SECRET.

5

6 Ed noted that the spanish

in the transcripts is very

a it anal to dependen

not on than

exair

маринал

this Bite

said it

that do we eatening.

ind sunday and the

intercept was shut down

Information from the trans

Akeptember 27. 1963-

1O man calls the borret

MilitaryAttache looki

jara. visa to Odessa. Re

is refered to the Consulate

Heacks how to get to the

Embassy.cnd.isgiven

directions: This conversation

is in the banish transcrists

and appeas to be a parajehrass.

WARNING NOTICE

SE JRET

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED.

N#. 47055

DocId:32271016

Page 8.

---

## Page 9

SECRET

This conversation occured

letureen ozo and 10:50 AM.

2. At 10:37 a man calls the

barret Corsilate and asko.

transcripto.

3 at 1:25 a nancalls the

4o0 5 on Mondays and

Fridays. his is in spanisl

4 At approximatel

Sylira Duran calls the

oriet embassy

. She tells

the mow there that the

Aminican citizen moros

SI CRET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

NH 47055

DocId:32271016

Page 9.

---

## Page 10

SECRET

the one she ant to risia

to at the mad embassy

these saying that if he got a.

sorret via that he could

thenget a Luban one and

leave her nome and phone

is in sparish

5. At 4:26 and inidentified Sorriet

Consulate Official Callo,

ladies.

SECRET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

NH 47055 DocId: 32271016 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

Levif the American has been

papers from the basiet.

onsulate in Mashington, D.C

and that he cants to go to

the U SSR where he plans

has not re cieveal anansiver

- to this man's problem.

that, unless they have permis

sionfoom-the.USSRthey.com

issrie a visa unthout gettin

permiasion from Vrashingto.

However, The S0 says, the

man hasa, letter showing that.

he sa menber of an organigatio.

that favors Cuba, but the

Cubans cant give hima visa.

without hinfirst gettinga

WARNING NOTICE

SI CRET,

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

N# 17055 DocId: 32271016 Page 11

---

## Page 12

• 9

SECRET,

sorret via and the 5.0

doesnt knerio what to do

the Ciles mell be hist

wad was being processed ane

he knew that would take

jite awrile dhe SO saig

that his infe corild geta visa

talian very outly

the the bites deit

the irdas os permissio

soon bilia says itis

clean that they can't give

hey.only.giie.visos

SECI ET,

• WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

NH 47055 DocId: 32271016 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

when it is appropriate: silvia

says that that is what she

will putdo in on therformo

than if no atlan this

B Systember 25,108 Saturday i

Consulate at 11:51 A.M. She says

that there is a North American

there who had been at the

orret Embassy before. chi S

obo her to wait one minut

(preceedin

neglig in Spanish, following

"I Please see the spanish trans -

wait.. Do you speak Kusdian?

Yes. Whi

takes the phone and says in

broken Russian/Swas in

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELZIGENCE SOURCES

AND. METHODS INVOLVED

SE RETI

NU 17055 DocId:32271016 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SEGRET

your Embassy and spoke to

no in Russian/ Please speak

Kussian

MI. What ilse do you want?

no enlay and they pan

myadohess

nIcknowthat

no legali rel a ale

to ask

mI: Whi

She Spanich transcript

indicates that the MO first

_spoke Russion, the MI responded

intenglish and then they

WARNING NOTICE

SEC IET,

SENSITIVE INFELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND MEIHOOS INVOLVED

NW 47055

DocId: 32271016 Page 14

---

## Page 15

SECRET

12

both spoke in English. The

tranacryst in Oswalas

mexican file is a carbon

C. October 1, 1963:

1. At 10:31 A.m. O man calls the Sorret

Military atts cher:

"Mo to MI, in boroken Russian

no: Willow. (sic) Quadat your

place last saturday and d

Hashington and Livanted to

ask you if there was any?

thing neir?

nI: d'd like toast you to call

another prone number

no: please Please

mI. Please criterit down; 15-60-56

and ask ferva consul:

mo: Shank you

MI: Please.

(Englich transcript).

2. A man calls the consul later

There is not atime on the

at the nint a Chronolage

o the Mexico Cita,

gation. (4

Vol I. places

WARNING NOLICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

SECRET

AND METHODS INVOLVED •

NN 47055 DocId: 32271016 Page 15

---

## Page 16

dution so

SECRET,

-/3

this call at 10:45 Am. The

Englich transcripts

"I'mat Xes(?) (sic) mo/ the same

person who phoned a.

say on go and spots

to Objedkor

no: Hello, this is hee Oswald

place last listendaya nd you

, and

telegram to Machint you

have anything new But s

lant remenber the name

of that consul

OBy: Kostikor He is dark/hair

orskin?/

LEE: Yea: My, name is Qaialo

OBY: not a minute d'll find.

hot they hang that thighn

06: Yo, the dog anythingt

WARNING NOTICE.

SECRET,

SENSITIVE INTELIIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

NI 47055

DooId:32271016 Page 16

---

## Page 17

SECRET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURÇES

AND METHODS IRVOLVED

14

has been sentout, but

nothine

The ane siil sequent and tio

ios conversations are

designated " prerrously

ransacibed

D On October 3 a man calli the

sorret militang Attache and

speaksinbraken spanich and

then english. The no asks fora

paço for Ressia and is askedi

tocall the Consulate.at 15-60-55.

says hedocan't know

ani

thing about and bays

call the consulate (Englisl

transcript s

III Info from the transcripts in

Oswalas Merico file.

A 9/27; 10:37 cill-Xenos copy

B. 9/27;

4:26 call-

C. 9/27; 4:05 call-

Ti

.NEGRET

SIO8NOS 3ONJ9I1JINI BAILISES

JOILON ONINHUM

NH 47055

DocId: 32271016 Page 17

---

## Page 18

15

SECRET

D.

9/22/

1:26 call;

carbon copy taped to anothe

page..

" portiono underlined in

-AlSO

TOP

A and

4. Duran ided with " Shira"

5. filed in torret contact

and Gawald &P-date of

filingintructions on

other

indicated.

mitations not

9 part call, carlos copy

routed to Scott,

an

Slipleyes

3. file instructions to boveet

Catast billicated

"O"

F 9/28; 11:51 call, carbon cajay

1 parts und ilined in red,

3

sorited to Scott,

Emplores

WARNING: NOTICE

SECRET

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

NH 47055 DocId:32271016 Page 18

---

## Page 19

16

SEGRET

" file instation, to

5 nodate

G 910/1; 10:31 call; Kerox

H. 10/i; "X&x (:) call; IT

5. Solarse requested the

"Lovet Can

nato "file

attenting to locati

audamo

gathericantanton

f tramous

PIOBABLY ARE FOE XISTTLE MEXICAN

I Information from cable

traffic to an

a from Mexico

City, Dawalde, Mexican file, and

HQR'S 20j and WX-7241:

A ON 10/1/63 Mexi 6344 to HQ

reports that Dave Phillips

ison TDY in. Machington, 0.C

B. Mexe 63.84, dated 10/3/43; subject

indetermind; is misdin

rom the cable chronology

C DIR 72527, dated 10/4/63, sayo

"Mr. David Phillips, newly

andriguest ap ounted chief.

LCubandope

rationod.ops.im

WARNING: NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

SECRET

• AND METHODS INVOLVED

NH 47055

DocId: 32271016 Page 19

---

## Page 20

:17

'E..

OLCRET

Mexi will arrive Oct

Lin Miamil for turo dayo

consultation WAVE... Tow

Mexi. Mo Rhillips ITA

o detai: 904, 1963

1. Qualdo Mexican file.

indentified man photos

in the 201" in blue printi

Dn red sci pt it says Photos

of unidentified person on

entering for embassy.

2 WX- 7241, appearently prepared

in 1967, alao places the date

af these plotos on 174 October

as does post-assassination

cable traffic and Mexi. 6453

which refins to arran

unidentified man entering

the Embassy on one October

3.

recently

informed ne that the correct

dates are 2and 4 October.

SECRET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

NT 17055 DocId: 32271016 Page 20

---

## Page 21

SECRET

+18-

2. On 8 October 1963, Mexi 6453, 10

(5-1-7)

sent to H:Q. It originated with

dhe Authenticati

that he had been there on the

as th; and the in

response about the taram

Employee

sarienb

bedinica enteng 20001

let: Apperrent age 35

athletic

build, circacfeet,

eceding hairline, baldi

tap More khakis and sport

shirt "There is nata routine

slipon this cable

F HQ responded to Mexic 453 with

DIR 74830(7-2! on 10 October 1963

This cable originated with

, AO was

J.C. King and the RO. was

Thomas Karimessines This

cable provid sa summarge of

WARNING NOTICE

SEC RET,

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

NW 17055 DocId: 32271016 • Page 21

---

## Page 22

SECRET

19

bio info on Qwald including

his DOB, date of defection, descrip.

tion, his return to the 1.5., and

recieved bus H. Q was a May

trademen the made at

been given rsas to return to

thi U'S. Mex co was instructed

to pass Giwaldi DPOB, fact

afdefiction, anddescristion to

the FBI, Navy, I+NS and the

Embassy locally 4Qsaid

merican posing do the

this cable wintto bcott

and

noted!

Employees

NW 47055 DocId: 32271016 Page 22

SI CRET

WARNING NOTICE...

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

---

## Page 23

SECRET

2'9

Eupliger

local dissenination requested

ivas done a 15 October Scott

requested that a "P"bile be.

opened on tee Henny Csivald

"ind put lo data we have

G.On a October- 1963 Meril468.

imbased HQ that mes ingently

ape recorders for

ndanas yet uniden-

tified perso, The cable reported

that the machines used by

thise people were constantly

dor and that

(CIh

son); A.0: LiN. GAlLAry

(C/WH/R); Coordinated in draft

NOTE: The lu

INFO WAS

"'CI/S1G Egerter" and "SR/CI/

MALALAs ROll" The cable was sent to the

Departments of State and Navy

nd the FBI. The first para-

graph.of tho.cablesays:On.iQct.

WARNING NOTICE

SECHET,

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

NW 47055 DocId: 32271016

Page 23

---

## Page 24

SECRET

21

1943 a reliable and sensitive

source repo ted that an Ameri

ican male, iho identified

iniselfas tee Giald, contacte

the lovet fabassi in Mexico

be ento helen the had

in ao described as

proximat ly 35 years old, with

in athletic build, about sin fee

tall, with as receding hourline.

The cable greson to lay that

this behe d that the wars

dentical to hie Remy!

not gives b o info on hin

(DIR 74673, dated 10/10/63).

J. On 10/15/63 Mexi 6534 teas dated

Cig. + A.O:

RO: Min Scott

rel: OIR 748.30

It said.

"Ple pouch photo

Oswald "D have not founda

response to this cable is

ither the Mexico cable traffic

chrono or Isualdis Mexican

file Phave raked Russ Halimes,

SECIET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

NW 47055 DocId: 32271016 Page 24

---

## Page 25

SECRET

22

because HQ sometimes used

what he called "an inattribustable

pouch " This cable does not

aise an IS attatched

with

K. Calls miginating unthes de

wassentor the 24th

A0: L. N. Dallary, R.O

REf- 01R 74673.

st is picated that you

representative in Mexico, who

will attemet to determine if

the hee Gwald in Mexico City

and subject are the same

individuals.

1. On 16 Ostaber 1963 Min Scott

wrote as meno to the Ambassa

don's contact. with the lovembe

SEGRET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

NW 47055 DocId:32271016 Page 25

---

## Page 26

SECRET:

23

It reported that the infor-

mation vas from aven

sensitive, anally reliable

source; that a man IDing

himself asts Oswald had

contacted t'he lovemboi

October; that he had

prervo

idly contacted then

jithat he had.

Instept Keit he hast

Be by to ho request, 10!

hiadefection; anda

setter element that

membera, the consular

section, norder to lean

if the farret Embassy had

recieved a reply from

Machinaton.

request i have to hi

WARNING NOTICE.

SECRET.

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

NH 47055

DoOId:32271016 Page 26.

---

## Page 27

:2Y

SECRET

of this memo went to:

The Ambassa dor

The Minister

coprato:

hegat

Naval Attache

IT NS

Orwald "P"

50-2-4-1 (WrittEN OVER 1)

LaiSon with LegAt

NAVAl AttAchE:

I Penfo from

vete sand cuto producton

stillo me he is

daving stoche locating thine

them available if and when

he can. find them

SECRET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

NH

47055

DocId: 32271016

Page 27

---

