# 180-10145-10264

## Page 1

180-10145-10264

HSC A

TRANSMITTAL AN

Mark Fiannigan

House Scloct

cormittee

on Assessinations

3301

Annex

42

Screet

Hasningion, D.

THE DOCUMENTS LISTED HEREON ARE FORWARDED

FOR:

INFORMATION

ACTION

CONTROL NUMBER

DOC. DATE

• OLC 73-2560

CUMENT. RECEIPT

4, August 1978

FROM:

Office of Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Room

7 D 35

6. cowashington, D.C.

20505

RETENTION

SUBJECT (Unclassified preferred)

LOAN

CLA

Liaison

Material NSCA 4/28/76 • Personal

Notes

Mr.

Mark

Flannigan: ASCA

(9003370

to. 0003409)

CLASS.

Secre

APPRIVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIES PHOGRAR

19299

SIGNATURE (acknowledging receipt of above

documents)

RECEIPT

RETURN TO

DATE OF RECEIPT

F085% 3772B

10145-102604

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ROOM 7 D 35

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

I - WHITE, RETURT COPY

2 - PINK, ADDRESSEE HOLD BAG:

3

CANARY, OLC HOLD BACK

---

## Page 2

SECRET

OLG # 78- 2550

CIA LIASON MATERIAL

HSCA 4/28/78

PERSONAL NOTES OF

MR. MARK FLANNIGAN, HISCA

103070

---

## Page 3

TASCA

SECRET

Yeai1959, notation on file "maintained in Room. 8988 JEH

HSCA

4-28-78

memorandum

5-20-59

TO: MR. RR. RoAch

FA: Papich

62-9-289

Subj Deportation of gambles al Gangate pers

Curta

- colains a copy o a memo 24d5-7-59

hansmelted to tre Ins opule in. ›лати,

ke the INS. Nep in Havana, Cuba.

contains the pallowing names:

FRANK

William Bischoff aka. Letty Clark, Hany Bish

Geordano Cellini, I.N.

Gofredo

Cellini

Binth. appot

1928, 0410

cuba

gaba de liare graziani:

b. marseilles, Fl

7-1-22

cuta;. ga.

ande antank, IN.

b. 4-30-

= FiN. Entranck (Audia) Para.

" Gardenes, FRANCE

Cura, ga

Ed Levenson

Nerada, Cura

Dusty Peters; I. N. Daniel Lapides Cut,

- SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Joseph selesi

aka

Joe Revers;

1899-ai4 Cola.

0003371

Peter Stepinoff

...Cula,. U.s. -

William monroe. or.William munroe.Cuta

jorenn.@aCot.noney

cura.-.U5

Cuba.-us

Vicent Controne.

Vicente. Controne

Laurence allen grilley, ata... Lany Gale

mickuiney

6.10-5-32 Canden, N.J. Cula Fl

joaquin Corto

JoAquiN Carbo Cordova

b sentenden, SPAIN

Cuta.

maria... Ceciliá Posada...

Cuta. uS.

voteia angel fortemene Cereito

cura.

alberto. Pernas.. Tomeu

.B..11-7-31

Harena,

FL.

Ny. argentina

Certa us

fake Lansky.

julius.

LorencARd

---

## Page 5

1. ;

7o: Din, cis

sub)

Anti- fidel Castro Act.

109-584-134

SECRET

6-5-59

0003378

- encloses a menco.....

ducusses... the actinctie.

o. Rolardo Arcadio Masperses. Nojas, former

Calan terator; cmceins an allack on thie.

- mentian. Ruhard Jaffer and.. Rotert Daut.

as two pitsts involred is transporting.

aims... to Cuta far Tamiami arport,

miami,.. FL

- aero mentino a group called the Cusade

of Revolutionarag@unt Communiam (CRAC):

headed by. Salada Din Keroon and

pose this. lupol-.. paup the chAr

has men prepared... to assasside Cartie,

Paul Castio, Ernesto "Che'' Querara,

Camilo Cienfuegos a David...e

Latrador

at.ww. inceptim.ob.autack.again/

Certa

menten 11 Pagel and to alter are

railings y

janen. to see General

page Hear

- belind to

have a

home in monroe, jogin

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

0003373

Mank... letterhead. meno

'6-10-59

TO:DIN: C1A

IFn:

.. Hoover

-- a..

6- P- 55, Grage 3. Hearn,

him n 6-4-59; mantel 10

steam upused to.

help

and! ellehind. mem.

6-1254

1.0: appia o ducerilig...

FR:

...HOOV.CV

Suby:

Anti Fedel Acturdies

-- encloses a meno dei de allegatem of

francica Rodrigue, descted a a

Culan army cap Com who recently intired

lы.....

U.s. an a perchasing sussum por..

We Chan gov...;

allegatins:

1). Rissian appece ar. helpingt

tracn...t. indocinate. O Citan

army:

SECRET

ah-6-3-59

the dal of he

---

## Page 7

SECRET

0003374

permally ince dis to asante

Rolando.

masterser, a former Cular

senata.cmeidered.to.be.a.ua.cumina

by the Carto regime.

memorandum-oppice=

7-14-59

70: Mn. R.R. Roach

FR :

S. J. Papich

105=

78016-13

Subj: LOMAn Eugene Hall..

Lateral. Security - Cura

-- stoles. that. sill i an Am Cough incarcerates

in. Cuba idue to be releaced. sos.

-slate. That flore. Kuhn, opper f

puurit.,.. CIA, Adried the. Leasin

agent... that CI1 was avan of Halls.

fouhming retuen ard. planned

to so twice him for the punes of der: lads

the Liasm afurt. adriced Kuhn that

Hill in the sult of a puding Becau

invertjacion

& planned to int. heri

CIA

sand the world wait Untill.

FBI.. enducted there interrew.

SECRET

---

## Page 8

SECRET

0003375

memorandum.

7-20-59

70: MA.' F, A. FROHBOSE

EN: S.J. Papich

BATISTA

1 62-70441-152

7-11-59, james Angleton, CIA,.

cold the deaison ant

_hat the fallours.

- The Certan Cmoul General, w.y.C.,

adrised. Jinpormant)..

chal..... senator

Htomer...

...uceired $ 20,000

- to effect the entrance

and asylum

1. Batista. (in.U.S.).

$ 40,000 d

editono...

mes Me pact

apchart upm successful.. coolition

memorarduen........

7: 29-59

TO: Ann. F. A: Knohbose.

FR: 1. J. Papich

subj. marcus dan danny

- sen. mater.

1 Pedro Day Jany; sul

recently anice

in Cuba, with tit

assistance of CIA, and is now in Tampa..

stato that CM inil temporarily ke

remale for legal.

his

throws

Burnard Reichert, ciA rep. is Miami,.

wbi.re

---

## Page 9

CIA LIASON MATERIAL

SECRET

UJU3376

maulined in rom 8988 JEH.

60

A

-8-78

blans! leiterhead memo

SAC, CUFO

3-28-60

105-79913) -45

Angel. Fonzo daareda Cones

- scales. Chat. CIA adried Maicon. on

3-23-60 chat inpo receired fun sauce.

of unnam iliability indicating lat Cuban

ente suspect sadada o being a plant.. I

that i is actially enlis for castro.

notE: Daaedia former. Chas Millary Attacke

at sc who defected fum Castro regime.

n... med... February

* is selling asylum

in des... - interreind a sercial. occasions..

be. the.WV.F0:

memorardum

4-1-60

TO: MR.. F. 4. FRO4 BOSE

FQ.: S.J. PAPICH

Subj:

William .A..WIELAND

DiR ,..OFFICE OF CARIBBEAN AND MEXICAN

AFFAIRS

Deplt.Of STATE

ZE. CNCERNING

IS-CUBA

BufilE 100-347731-71

= sily. holds key position in state Rep't

at present time,

i 194s, the beget,

---

## Page 10

SECRET

0003377

sympathetic towards Russia;.. that he popersed

fundship tick knowm Communist Party membees

in Brazil; that he had commended the sociali

progiam of the Cammunist party in Brail.

In 1960, den. Smachers asked you arcitable

inpo on Weiland.

-... Vice Pres Nixon also

intriested... in thn affair due to werland!.

position in. the...

Matt Depaitment.

alo.,. on. 3-31-60... Herman Horton, CIA..

toed Papich that info had been receried.

Chat... Are Castro gor had a souice:

in the

Cartbean dension of the State Dep't...

_.Hoclon;

slated Was... tu. info. is cmid i ansthe

aguy... U.s. Ain Force -

whill in Brazil suing WW II and finds it

dipficult.. to beliere.

..What he ablaned such.

a. Key position.

saip Vat C/A intentence to follow tie.

maller..

demorandem.

60 - 16-60

TO: MA L'ALLIER

197-4295-9

ER:: S.V. PAPICH

(2)

Subj: MOVIMENTO RECIPERALION PEVOLUCIONARIO

I5-CUBA

- this mentiom that the suly; is not dield.

I the tie ali contan its coce

eventually be used tigErs

..In the "CLIp',

---

## Page 11

SECRET

9-14-60

0U03378

memorandum.

TO: Mu L'ALLIEN

ER:. S. Ji Pasich

Subj

105-30972-68

Latinal Lecurity - CUBA

- subj. vas utileged. as an inf.... ba CIA

slater. the the Cin Allempting to arrange to

hase

trase to Curat

pure.aa.a.somk.o.info

aero sap their pror to leanny. for Havara

whois.unel.knoum.to.the

C/A f. has a cimmunnt background.

-sales tha... marie to

actically promoted

norde to improve hi position.

Keep that hi has been seperated for some

un. allows the wither to get back aan.

CA sap it hopes. that a resumptem of

the relationship. il hilp. in estattiting

mochabile commonist colact in Cuba.

SECRET

---

## Page 12

SECRET

0003373

nemoraraum

9-30-60

T0: mn: L' AlLice.

FR: J.J. Papich

Jubi:

lene. Myie valdes

IS-CUBA

97-3805-35

7-29-60, Brich O'Neal, CIA, Manted

.to. antart valdes.

to.. altempt. to ucrut

valdes for intell. assegiments. in Cuba.

MEMORANDUM

10-20-60

tO: mn. L'ALLieR

FR: S. J. Papich

105-87912-84

Subj: FRD

- mentuns that [E: A. Stanulis es

the cra. office atlached.

with CLIP.

Blank... litteckead menco.

Legal.. Attache, mExico

PAblo Agustir aldama Acosta

Internal ser - Cuba

10-26.-60

105-85333-13

ar.10-111-601-c13.cm.adnsed Chat..it.

no in. the proces of.. attempting to recrut

subj:; sub, has bee reportes by various

sores as hend of Cubar intellegerie in.

te Cuban Embaris, mencio ha des

---

## Page 13

SECRET

0003380

- date that dedamas has apparente

seen encountering Houble wich Cubangor.

becar.arecter. offarcusted his... f

keny..anl-comm..

C14. sou reported that seck had bell

accused if profileering on lycor red. at

a special price.at the Embassy ..... of

squandering. his maey n extranagant lins.

quarter; and that the killed a crons....

blank leechead

SAC, maine

DIR, FBI

JOSE MIRO CARDONA.

75-CUBA.

11-

29-60

105-84334-

13.

- C/A Gonsed. that mino beng used in

tre CLIP. operation..

Report

12-21-60.

meani

william ;om Kelly

char: IS-CutA

title: Manuel. Adaberto Anques.

105.=

83117-65

SECRET

---

## Page 14

SECRET

0003331

Report

FBI

12-21-60

105-83117-

difo outared fum tuo infoimanto,...

MMT-2

jenes. Perdomo,.. former official of the Coclis

gov., and. Jose

Paz Novas, fermer 4.

furnsshed.sgred.statementsidentyfging

in tan vigner agenti

:..fa Juan Orta,. sec. to. Fidel Castro.

tris, mami, stated. Und sutj retinel

to meamo. fum.itarara, 11-10-60, apli

going to Cula beet. losing neire. tI retume,

to...ami; now.rieley.to. comp.zuch

On.. 1114-60. Argeus fumished swon

platement to. Ins.. Chat he never acted.

cro...

an Intell: agent i the present

Con cov, but admilled mitiry le

to: Orta: ie: Batista people.

Hte

sacd. he de.. not. recer miney. on.

instructions from Orta.

SECRET

---

## Page 15

SECRET

0003382

"Ror sagin me La Carlal Sanjee

fum.. Aug. 1959 untel 5070.1960-0,41

general. 8. the. Fiscal... sewerity.. Dep!t

of. Treasury. - Cutor gor ciment.

1960 - 41S.

h: Oct on Nor 1959

uta, juan Orca,. the See. to

Castio,......

sent him...

about 3.cn.k

lellus.. fum manuel arques.. There

eelle... related. to. various persmo

working for the dep!t. of treasury

who.trresuspected.ofnatling

emopuaceesagainst.the.go.vof.Caitrd.

Onta cold hem..

to sms there persenally.

/ Specificall

he. saup he can recall

What are y there letter mentined a.

uman who world for te. Special.

Jund. I publi works in Here Chea

el sad she was passing frequently.

bium..

Cutat miami and.. that puchaps

the a carry messages of anti

castro. elements, blin meane i Havani,

in relatio to. conspiracia againet

this gov of Cartro.

SECRET

---

## Page 16

p.7.

SECRET

0003383

Orte als toed. the guy that he coued

Un the sence of Paul Ros. to locate..

manuel arques

also, in about Oet-Nou, 1959, a. Culas named

Frank Bestard, Who taed he was working

for. haul Castro, tall he that Argues

was at that. lome an agent. in. meani,

Hh., for. Juan Orita.

also, a man. to a Mario lecte,

who wordled for me in tical teurity

n... sanana,. ted me about Acy, 1157,

chat he was transporting initten. inessage.

y.. Arques... 10

is. miami.. to. are it.

..Aterana.

Jose. Pay.

...Novas- messes.:. 61=10-11-60

10B. - 3-8-18 -

G-2. of che Cutangor. fum. Jan, 1959, unt

may 30,.. 1960:

- Paz. sales that during 59 and in. 1960

to adi contact de fu die, dec

y. Jitel Castio, Press

saip Or told him in. Aprit, 560, that

"Manalito" aques tes chief. of an

intelligine.group.erouungjoc.oza

in Inami, F1.

SECRET

---

## Page 17

SECRET

0003384

cap. le alio deard. Or Celling... sme older

Cutrenis. Orta's ghice. .Uat Orte ume

paying Arquest 250.08/ march.por

intelligence crork.

saup arquer.. had. a. yot as clek in the

Houl american i miami during 1959

and fert.part. of1960.-

alio, arout. che end.. g.1959, Che

cmowd.general.of.cuk.ia.mranie..tim

tepore..

uns. Laz cand... told me that

a Curan female.,. the managh of lie

soal.amtrictina@merica.and.her

dacghto..thom.Ido not know by name,

wre colling under. arques in... te

intelligencl.goup.of..cuta.

agute who untressed... the. xtatements

меи:

William P. Kelly, SA, FAI, Mieni,

Thomas #. ERRION, SA,".

Edivin L: Sweet, 50, FBI,

p.10

- FBI adnsed (hao Arques arrend in Miami

fine Harara, Cuta aboard Culara Artlers

pligat. 804 mn.11-10-60.

530 Ocean Drive,

miami Beach, Ilorida. - the is

che. Barbzzon Apartment statel-argies

---

## Page 18

SECRET

• L03335

relamed to Cuth, I un trelling" cosperatt

inch. the United. Atates. goriment.?

Arques gas a suor statement in 11-14-60

to sA felty. to ras, meanie, Hourad?.

shouldice

- yue premoudly made s statement. at.

8-3-60.

- Anies slated. tat he had been in Cura

the last 212 months:

- Daup he left che becaus the country

mas charing i becoming communist

- sand he was offered a position.

the tourist Commission in Carla -

- slated had he was a ling-time friend of

carlos.Prio-saed.heiseted.com

in Cuta while he has there?

pit- paup. tali he provided info to the

Cartio: 5j0r../z.1959 encerning Batiato

people. who he vehemently opposed.

p. D - saup he sent the enp to DR. Orta.-

seut. it openly.

p. 1D... saip. he never. recened money from

jeas.arta.cor..in/0:(07.piamanyone elec):

---

## Page 19

SECRET

0003336

p26=

sanchey. is.

rays de indu nario dguensetense-.

Keep he has werer been assoc with fron

Qia do you as he Knows

fose.. A. Reppin" sanchey has been reported.

to be a Citan agent.

On 12-1-60. Aquer gore. a volintary

statement. to the

FBI.-

Kelly x Williaris.

P. tolloman.

p32. seep that he worked as a sort of publicity

man for the Curan Toureat Commissco at

Miami, Fl.. for a little tess. ran one year;

Depit as an agent. of a forein principal

durn. jan, 1968, in connection. inth

the joo..

plat/y denie ere being. G-2..M Man.

intelligence agent for Juan Orta...

sau he sent. ness ages to Orts. through

Ingel Banos, Si," Chemoley", and

Who was assigned

Carlos Herald Attaches office

to the Cuben.

in miami

SECRET

---

## Page 20

SECRET

OU03387

Manuel I Deaz, forme employe o

cutana Antine.

and. Chrough. Kapoul

Botello

There merage cmeeined

wn actonte....

1 Batisaanos...

denesany indudio by ada to dend.

messager on axy info.

- nhite Orta esm in miamo in

PiC, 1959,. Argues Rau hen.x volintered

to and tum info ahoul Batistianos.

arca aried only t accept. such inf.

-cannot edirthe (unaste) any Cutaw

aquite n te... u.s.

- dences ever receiring ary tracning?

instriction or aventatios. in. expcondge.

neres. talas an. oald df allegiam

to.. Castro. gorenment

p39- arquer made a tup...to.. N.Y. C: in late

march, 1960; ment kere to. investizal

repored. mischduct.... of an..

.unsecalled

emplayu o ст.C.

p43

MiANUEL ADALBERTO. ARQUES DIAZ

ДоВ.

14-23-25

Placs "Harana, la

SECRET

"1o"l

---

## Page 21

SECRET

0003388

natured is citizen, ratialize uS.

Dishuck Caus, Lynchbeerg, VA, 1949.

Soc. Sei

229-36-5431

1960

4-28

78.

97-4196-11

4-18-60

TO: Pirector, CiA.

FR: JEH

Subf.:

the Fair Play For CUBA... Committee

slates.... that the Bureau as 3-22-60

inctituted.an./wv....ganog. knowmas

He Conmetter of Friends if Cula

which may be identical. with the

captored. diganizatios.

a caf-tap furnched ends in the

part. which said the Comette (of Freaks)

in parmed to populain tha

1-97-4167 (Committee if Friends of Curta)

- mitte an the men in tighed!

the notation "to — Harry

cia -4-18-60.

DDP "

SECRET

---

## Page 22

SECRET

4-8-60

nemo for:.... DiR, F.BI

0U03389

97-4196-11

ATIN:"

Papich

Sub;.:

Fair Play for Curla Committee

-tenters ailached adritisemest whet

annd... N4. Tim

4-6 - 60 -

indicating. that

tie Cutangor has

pronded money for the suly. adr

8-8-60

105-80781-196

TO:. Q12, CIA.

FR:

TEH

-Frent her: Dem..

(FRD)..

- mentons the CLIP: opecation if the CLÀ

nech.... is a CIA operation quiet

amit the Caste go emment.

Bland letterben.

9-9-60

97-4368-3

TO: DIX.., 610

Serty:

p.2..

Cuban Rely Jocely, sne

SECRET

mentions an islandi nee

Aslamoadlo,

---

## Page 23

SECRET

0U03390

- mentions.. CLIP oscation

Plank. lillichead memo

109-584-2008

9-22-60

70: DIR

ER: JEH

subj: Anti-Fidel stet...

-mentions Hat Varona es of interer!

to the ciA y that vacond is akey

pizuie...

in tre.CIAb CLIP. operation

which es an epecation.... aumed aganist

we Castro goveinment

Blank lettuhead memo.

109-584-0053

10-18-60

эо..

DIR,CIA

ATEN: DDP

FN: JE4

seby:

anti:Caste... Act.

I5- CuBA.

falloung ipte. by a souce who has not

been listed but in. the position. to pronte

inpo on grancana:

accodl. to source, durry recent conc.

wick several frends, Grancana dates thait

Fitel Cactro wa to be dme aus ents sholly.

saud. it would occurie

---

## Page 24

SECRET

0003391

ass. fo ke an 3 occacions, the last

sheeting intain blean toot, means.

o stated excrything had bee perpected

for kelling Castro & that the "ass" had

arranged with a gil, "not funder

descrited, to drop a pill

in dema

dunk or food of Castro.

some allo said that 6 plates.

Carto is. IN the almanced tage of syphilli?.

this memo was sent. to:

1) Orst Cheef of Stay for snell

Dep!'t of. агту.

atl:. security. DIV

..--

1) Office of Sp. Inut.

Ari Sou

aur:. Chees, Counter intllyme DiV

2) DiR of Naval intelliginee

1. ant Ult. General

f. walter.

Leagle

1) Office. of decid

Dep't of stato

SECRET

---

## Page 25

DUD

wear 6177

0U03392

blaull letturhead

105-76826-17

12÷21-60

TO: D11, C. I.A

ATTNi.

DDP

KR:: JEH

Jubi

manuel.anconco.Vecona

IS - CUBA

states tak a source who feinished

releabli info is. the part said on 12-13-60

that he recd. info

what exfort an bung

made by us... racketiers. to financ

anti-castro act...in the hope. of regains,

Old tery.

wwwsaid.the.data.came.from

A. uceman; iho obtained.. it fior

any Tomlinson, who was formedy the

Havana representative of Communications

Counselors, One, a subsidiary ?..

the Mecann. Euchaon. Ad.. Agency. of NYC.

accord. to sourc

che Cellini brothes.

I Pittsbugh. " Wheeling, through thee

sidter.....

to put upy millies for the support.

of. Varma:

allyide

moss..

internediary

Rodly, moss is

war, so Pitti Relation Coachin

whose misters SEllia Cellini

---

## Page 26

-...-

.**.

wemden. "pud...e

" inwoa anam- d-eae .

....*--.

un me maeodt

-.....

muwecea uina e

tarr- .an.,

t. nn..an.a".-.

...an...

nani, a in rauaaoin')

SECRET

0U03393

forjoing. info.pumishedky

., Ofri r. see.of sefence.

1......... d. -...

.• =..

n. ot--.=..

W nee cea d eidee GaeeA Gunated de Inoreeee Melnoor eo

o unno o ar carns ne vorner a an anaan

,---....

tmnno maa ta-.=.

e.nm.. .==

de dt e=n . mm →

.--.. --...

....--

G......... ...

- we -aeao

n.nn o muao va '. =o.

sa cone dtmee a aro oao

.. aa ianae deaaiie iaeiiiiia en

--..... -..e,

SECRET

---

## Page 27

-Sest 1.1

CiA MiNiSEN MATERIAL

YEAR 1901 -

SECRET

0003394

maitaunel.in..room 8988 JEH

tirited tale goverment.

Memorandum

TO: Mn. s. Ellier

TR: ST Papich

Subj: Anti.: fidel Casteo Aet.

I5-СиВA

farmacy 9, 19.6).

109-584-2690

-Ref. es made 10 Miami leter ded

Dec 201. 1960

ane. komar,.. CM, adried

frase agent... pancary 6, 1961,

far Frank anthony shirgis.

esin.no.unyconnecte.ruth. che.C/A.

1:25

CIA litechead imeno

27 Sec. 1960

50. Dincior, FBI

aun: Mr. S. J.. Papich

105=

95498-1

FR.

ODP

Sabj: Pene Nenez Berro

= statis tati are. Rene Nunez Berro,

a. Campania Cubana de Avracion.. pitoo,

sho uscireste

G-2 ageot.

SECRET

---

## Page 28

SECRET

0U03395

bland lettickend memo

TD:.Dsreclon.coa

1-19-61

F1: 3E11

Sul: Franciaco Quintara... Macia

25- cuBA.

under irweit... by: FBI.... to det. moerement.

ni Culan intel actinter in N.y.C.(where

phi lives).

www

de.C1A.learnedthat.thee.tut..ned

ten empersed What he was a CIA. agent

CIA now.. tryiy

..do des, potencial.. for

dowle out.

пожЕ

thes memo. chen. la a sentence

wlllen." laghand ihich saus.". Ointonn

so is hainery. program rich.. 1.141,

probably.is'

douth americs....

blank letterhead

DATE:

1-25-61

TO ::..Dinictou....CIA

alia:

DOP.

FR.. JEH

Sub: Citrina Aulinies.

mentions that aSElletice to the

hoose is die costion to denis this

---

## Page 29

SECRET

0003396

aulines an flytte

pihech depact. on arive

at.. micine

Htarcina.

- the benean

ws. aling.. is the C14 woued lille such

maleual.

NOTE:

. the somee can acguen lus ujo but.

a hin to gena t Yo. a d, an ass mel.

Iit on protable that the inpo was going to

cu. Bureau, at leat).

-sex.p.ag.son.that soruce is Aduas

varango...o t a peralions Depaitiment, Cutana

derilises,. triami, Glacido.

FBI.-letteo....-

1.30-61-

- Miami, Ilouda

105-95199-2

Re:.tranciccs.taton.ill. @lvaiy

-sul. tol beedu as

1-18-19-61 the

pollowing:

Cuta nalislelg

tSp. dancer.. ky nasm

y. Franicé Romero-

- went to Culla in meuch, 1959, apte bey

Ciny a zihie

- casual auguaiitance o

Fidil Castro

wll acgionted wuth Juan Oita

SECRET

---

## Page 30

SECRET

0U03397

slates that Cacho torer proposed thal he,

Cartonnell act as a curen agat t he agreed

to do so.

-m july, 1959, Cartonnell.came.to..te

i.s. antacted an an intelligen agut

unit about... fon on Jel 1960.

he ceased.ading.as.an.ant beau...

hs.sympa.thee.chaned-hir.aet.

cenlies a gachering info on hasperes

roberto Ferrande, Ineranda

= somelimes be penished enfo telephonicall

to juan. Outs.

- ascened code-name A. Perey k Jeau.. -

seldom used the.

latter name

carmell said chat. co all Castro

asumed pover he became acguanted with

maria Wilouska, a private secretary

of Tidel Cartro- she speaks approx.

4 Carpuages.., induking Russias.

- cartonell sacd de i in the office.. Of

Cartrio m. 3-22-60, Which was cha

day aper.. 2 Am pilots, shergalis &

Renagent, chad been shot don over.

a Cal. in the

trying to tall.

---

## Page 31

Jem his position by ite aid of

0003398

aunt, hostle toed cannell that.

Or hod. anaged for Sheyalis. k

Ruadquirt... to ply fum Miami to Cuta,

malle.alow.pars.oe.a.desgratedarea.os

Eeta,... at wheel time photo hold he taker-

propagarda purpocs...-.Custro. ded not..

prowabout.thu.

- mistaken shot don-

- Carto persed at Ora.

united. Mats messo.

10: DIR.EBI..

.-.5-2=61

105-95645-2

15. Flora. Menning aims Case

prior 10 1 1-59; reportess had

contacts... 's the Tempa den who helped

him secree aims;

Aft for cuta as

6-17-60 - has not returned--is

with.. Curtro.

blank settehend

TO: air IciA.

Attn: DDP

Fri:

JEH

Suchy.

Cutan gou. in Enile SECRET

3-2.2

---

## Page 32

SECRET

0003399

= mentors. la!.

'he CIA's 'CLIP. mogam againt

Cartno. mey be implemented. at any time

1.s. gov memorandum

TO :

Belmont

ER: RO L'ALLier

such:

ChIP.

3-28-61

FiA. Stanulis, who has been insoled in the

arretion of the progen, on... march 27, 196%.

-projet now. moning at a far pau in new

He confided. that erryme invoted in the profit

arsumed. Admen. gav. cha-eut order to more

wont dely althou

raue. terms... Atuli ful the peopet coud

he scratched despite go ahead

diamelu...-.tr. camp in Guatemala. completes

personnel ready to. more.. arrangements

also made to.acquire bases is. Nicking.-

(to be und as masion. embarkatio points).

mentions that curen pot ent leader will mat

3-20 in Guatemale with miling. delics.

die -Than

a Loser

Batista

---

## Page 33

SECRET

0003400

Sanches - Mosquera has come up mit

iead.oy. arout 300 ex-cutan inchili men

as a bar- could invade in west. math-

Alerte

stanulis

confeded.. that then

group. could be need as a... diversionary for....

the deadline pon. i wasim

baf said.

wowed not be for... at least

- tro more

weeks

Blank... letterhead

70: mu L'Alllies

4-6-61.

97-3962-12

En Papich

Angel... Lanchez-Mosquere

= the CIA had pier. adried. ta thes

meght give limited suppost parentane

lo che subj; sen on april 1, 1961., A.P.

Flynn, ciA, told Liarson agent that the

Agincy had changed its nund.. about

dealing much mosque.

an. apiel 5,1761,

Roman; CiA, adused thost. the Aginy

was not ho am forther deal wilk

In sill; - no detars - her cinderelandry

that ciA would not deal with him because

many of the Cular enter dislited him

SECRET

---

## Page 34

SECRET

0003401

Bland. culechead.

TO: DiR, CIA

ATEN: DIP

JEH

Subj: CLIP

4-6-61.

105-.

89923-161

-nif (releatle) said on ..

4-4:61 that he barned

yan member of. Us MRp that an invasion. i

espected. to. like place n

sa by the end

of Ии чим or early nest wreck

pre mico. Cardona. ha heen worleng.

I recenly visited

ananci..castio...comp in.c

ipads fon you kanes.

Beard: Allechend

TO:.. DIR./.CIA.

DD.P.

-4-18-

61.

105-89923-781

JETt

Subj: CLIP

Ше.

13-61.00. so inf (reliable) fenches

pollocrng.. info.:

rently claimed de so comedes in the CrA

I had are te to BERE

This ther

Fastro quups.

---

## Page 35

SECRET

UU03402

them.

= merla said. he had tolen enral auto palences.

fem the equipment. Land he ens fending thee.

anguintane

500 each

.anaperational....

l interest in Merla, but.

das the "Terru

a boat

was his, had been wer

ky

an...

o...

1-13-61, a source affitated. with CRe

ERD. in miami, admad bhat meroa

I a bock

orned. by (MRR), a group affiliated with FiRD.

SECRET

---

## Page 36

SECRET

0U03403

19682. section 2

- manitared in room

8988 TEN.

memorneum

50: m. tallier

FR:

Papich.

6-6-61

105-5.1681-50

-tentions that Out had defected; saup

Wat Ora. is stell in Irana berry's

de of the datin Ameran embassis whee

he... ablaced asylum....

C.A receuro a

apt. tot.. he may.

ablaw a safe: Condut

repoet.whech.woued.altoc.hem.to.klas

th counts

Bear... entertend.

+05-89923-202

6-23-61

70: DIR, CIA

ATINiDDA

FR... JEH

Leby:.. CLIP.

- FBI. Kup. that it is that undustally. that

a number 4, endinquals, atreat 50,

hearted the tiring comps. cmnectd.nek

PEP Rigets come in the

present wherestoct of there persons t

into a ticini. its they a

pis -castro outiot

---

## Page 37

SECRET

0003404

6-8-61

105-89903-125

70: 012, FBE

ER: VAl, miami

duk: CLIP

mentin that the FBI. should ach the

C/A. for mpormation de lte

50.0 de

Graing. camps conn. wik ChIP. add.

Meroadin.

e....TO. DIRCUTOR, FRI

i FR: JAL, DALLAS

9 - 25-61

105194565-13

Hosty, Jr.

Dalla.?-..

27-61

- cin donce rentd. bat sih's sister

whill operating

under... cares f

antu renalities.

-should he noted - all of bul' sister,

is. talla aca.

SECRET

---

## Page 38

SECRET

0003405

4-28-78

tracatened '' koom 8988.

- nothing of segrificance is... this volume

CIA LIANON... MATERIAL.."

19622

4-28-78

maintainel...rn.room. 8988.

volume 5088

CIA LIAISON MOTORIAL

_rean +963118644-28-78

maintained Por 8988..

Volume: 08

eliS Memorandum

3-31-63

TO:... W.C. Sullivan

+09-584-3502

KR:.. M. R. Wannall

Subj:.. Anti- cactio Actertes in the les

2a.".

a conference.

held in.. 3-30-63 meet

ducussed how to stop cold" the raid.

ky Cuhan group agant Cura al ho

ling. teen baris.

-acted temper

present-rep. osureau of Cuetons,

Coat Guard, Army, NAVY, State, CIA,

Border Paciol, INS,. FBI, and Out

header l tie un cola State.

SECRET

---

## Page 39

SECRET

0003406

as. a resuet. f the emperene, Coltu

planned o. to. Pres... 8 specipe they

diagned to stop..tu raids.

1 per for Br... for to alon dis Chart

Grand to land in ween thy bains

2). to ham...

wlards blengured by

authordy.to.presentluton...poo

pacolen fi bassy. the corenry))....

3). to inculute Coars Guard suncillance,

...ol precenty.. suspected vessel;

4).. to permit ts to serge paidles

wotred.in.iaidefordelentios.com

sevice of prevention of departins

notices;

5) to was ente leader than the Pres

vents the raid to care;

.toussue a Gov policy statement

against the raids;;

7).

to slidy. the querte s

proutes.

indicate Eeting t

engage. in raid foras; x

haas refugees

by

electing the to here an

a manner

that they would

las thy ate being walked.

NOTE:

"harassing physical

surveillance" Did not meet with

favor t FBI will not indulge is

such artistes T

---

## Page 40

SECRET

0U03407

p4. - Hose present.

Sterluy.Cottrell-State

Capt giage Reynolds-CC

D.C. E2415 - Cuntons

J. Walte Leafley-AG

11. Col. Richard L.

Rolfe

Col. Boyt. - Army

Lt. Commander JiN. WitSOn-NAUDL

intelligene

Wannall. - Seition Chuf - FDI

4-23-63

105-7-2107-2555

70: DIRCETOR.

10I

к12:

Machune Leitery f US Cilizes traveling

-stater bal allacted. a machine-lestery. d

20. I pem tula ducery 1962.

-aho acts the Brean's enterest... i

Beard Cellehead-secret -

11-27-63

10.5.

18078-789

ATTN: DDP

FR::

Subj:

FELI

Citani Actinites in thee United. Hatt

1S - Cula SEGRET

de: 585 dilet to ident meeti

BU LIAISON

---

## Page 41

SECRET

U003408

Cula who wee in roled. is the long of Celan agents, sent to

succ... indiscial- nto... descloped fier

cases. in not pens Who au or who dan beer

sopcrational interest.

NOTE: Classified! 'Secret" beause it thous

FBI.has.into..

on aguts sent. to. US by cular gou....

I because its how that there peans an

apeiating against... Curan gov... - all car mentines

is. the tellerhead merss... er cument dou

tuned ore to the CIs And is. now working

for them.. inse de Cuta-

want to edentity.

perns in contret. zuch the double agents-

enclosese

11-21-63

BY LIAISONi

"Fer the purpose of. clarty the derly mentines

belsu une be reperia to as A, B,C, D, E, F,

Tell be nibered ances triti

- goes ous to gene descuptes of the co tacts;

are not revral nho the doull agut ou.

us. gov memoondum

8-8-63

M: MA. SiT. BRENNAN, sR. 105-107868-27

кал:

MR. S.J. PARICH

Subj:

SECRET

---

## Page 42

SECRET

L003409

Harolo divereon, Crs, dansed Papil

8-6-63.:

CiA has no Objection with the Becau

emirely the indendia is. Mere at is...

contact. results" propored meting is nox cils, cin

de sues.

to be unpormed quor to mectry.....

Siseaser,.

admed that. cellA hould he...in a. poutor,

to. fucinesh. corages the area

passcle that. the metig related to ocher

interated is. result.of.any meetings. it they

title place.

SECRET

---

