# 180-10143-10112

## Page 1

180-10143-10112

Gi AMMA -22433

085

LI FLAT LIERODE

50-6-3216 ENtRE FAL

82/21/59-12/16/64

44/7/le3

AT MIXI: 9940.

6/19/64

IN.0.9.909

Central Intelligence Agency

has no Objection to Release

Dato: AS.

SANITIZ

2003

10143-10112

---

## Page 2

T.... cilf, Kuniot

From... Chiif I Statin

HMMA

22493

Nov 7, 196

1: Jhe Vi'S-2.. Tigger Device.!

to cover the consulate ant

little false tuzzering. The soo

he replaced by the l nich lind

wah

VLS-2

Duing the frist two see 3 agestion

this

trezger. traffic enterng t liaig

the tagit:

antiane

with the concington f

rhe

i a milesting

the canners Tar

daily

would only photogugh bugle

J-22's system wicks abrel

considerably 8-22 had been

framed glaus does as that?

nea the tangots would crois the full

not closed i tagets pould walte into

was.. freused on the shale eres

or this

the. door. It was find that

parten isn

dark colored lishing i hate black

foue tout tingzing the visa

entiance, the man's shit o

ghotograglg.a.finitcon

ridi

leaves the entrance. This system

enters. the bolding I light licity

thi

VIS

this Char

tiggu the dem

ligentry on

has this

does not

when

---

## Page 3

Mesi 9970

idle

onsulate do fill under This

* Five. ogs film maihil i ret

developed.

3) Ryut delay. occasined by inselenty

---

## Page 4

Lefeat

LieRiDF-

MK TRAP -

Sec Bel-w

esed to sdentify. Statem in.

telaphme tapo

wnsigued

7 c 2.1959,.. to sdentfy the statin's

telephome..tag.f

- Canboun.

Emboray. on blesi

aity

I Jce. MEN 3382, %1/1959 ] * gut.t

techncenl nomenctabua d a

Al.s installatoni... Detantef.. the tgster. and.

in [AMmA 20302] # yotM

teleghone

untarmad

Alooc/1

mat t talsoe idmey 19ss

tunctioning lute.1161. ]

-PBEMRULSE

taliphme.

usturata 3 4fet /4R00€

_ A.MMA 12358

Ix get t3

MKTRAl thuugh nevved fume room to rom, rencained in

place iclhon the tanget aree, thugh mactice most f the

time. Dessig Navembes 1963 MK TRAP mas Mastuatel fiom a

- pemnd sfeat besebarce teuron us... Bascbma, Charlia,

- Designad to tode plare ( ElCOOL'"- MK TRAP desuquentt

cnstretee 2=3/62- mstelad t teslid. 814./62.

-Antallel 1/16/62.

4 Became Knacos a0 LIFETAT/LIOMET

---

## Page 5

LI FEAT / LIOMEN

50 - 6-32 /7

taps

(Entire: 7112)

Muelferen

-ajul 62

→

Dee: 3,1963

Emissing.

Jhe intril affrt... cica.

agaunt. The

Ghans t their Embarag was a

telephone (PAIMPUISE)

It was interduced. into the... Embaroy. ssing LIFEAT aisits

and was actuated frone the Lifent It beschmuse.

From 1960-1961, eight

were made in the same tagst. These. were called

intellations. One o two were plaed in the series ffend's

- office at various times during this. period. These installation.

- sere mionitored frone a truck, an apartment - BitSElOUSE Arle-

and later a second, closer apartment --13ASEHtOUSE BAKER BASHNUSE

insallatin. rasad

- functioning dawny late 1961 and at that hums work staited

on a new installaton called LIERODE MKTRAl because the

_ MKTRAP techmugue C.

phne) was used.

The Lie Rode , MKTRAP

installat. was made using

-LIfEAT sists and was actuated from the. IFEAT-Ul Base

Edeng Hach 1962.

At some time during the gerr 1967=1943 photo

operatives were out into offed. saing. Baschness... Baker.

Dung Unsmber..: 1963, the tie Rode /MK.TIAC enstallation

was pactuate fum a seand LIFEAT. faschrse

Thua as z 1958

222524

LiFEAT-VI + BaschunTeR [LiFEAT-?)

4 Photo aperations

Basehouse B [Lietoral

---

