# 180-10141-10266

## Page 1

180-10141-10266

JFK Assassinatio / System

Identification orm

Agency Inform ition

Date:

2/5/2016

AGENCY :

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10141-10266

RECORD SERIES : CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTIO Y

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

13-22-05

Document Info mation

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

HSCA

CIA

DATE:

03/10/1978

PAGES:

27

SUBJECTS:

HUNT, E. HOWARD

CIA, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: NOTES

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/02/1995

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Box 6

v9.1

NW 47055 DocId: 32271070 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Leslie Wizelman.:

3GC File

E. He Hurt - Summary

3/10/78

The EGG file covers the peread frana July 1, 1965.. to

June 19, 1922

The fue contaise the fallowag a sumeris and informatico:

A contact between sue Agency and statun, ellective

July 4, 1965.

119.880 per aneur

employe Hunt is

da years

1. 5.

a memo for 06C from cist of Contract personnel Division,

dated August 3, 1965.

Subiac litestino of royalter by ahe

cantract empiouee.

States rat Hunt mull apparently duelor

a cover asinitel

royaltie

:, Requests assion regardung setenton of

Best roa

tody cara

A memo far Cher of coa suct Personnel Division From

Office of General caunsel dated Rug 1a, 1965 re retention

ot cayaltie.

"We believe that tunt is entitled ta retain such

royalter without an alfret against lis Agency salary" "Wehave

been aduised oy me. sena steuens is/suppert, that exhunte

cover does pat saclude.

the cale of a writer; Hunt's cover

fac status will onlybe a light on?

A memo

fram Chief, Covert laims Branch to Chief, Contract

Persannel Dusseir, dated Sept 3, 1965-Gitie recommended deletion of

_aftset paragraph in Hunts contrac- Acknowledges the Obe opinion

which determined tunt may retain without Agency salary oftset

any tuture royalties earned as a resu kof his literary elforts based on

..the fact cover does not include roéofawater."

NW 17055

DocId: 32271070

Page

2

---

## Page 3

2 1st 5138505054

- mema team conseact emplarjees Accounts saction to:

Chief, Westorn Europe Dusion, dater Out 13; 1265, Reportsthat

there is pa recacd of recaipt of duty status separts. fuc

Hunt since his S00 yTubyi965. Reports äre required in order

to maratarin his leave accaunt in accordance inith the terms

at his contract." i

mero on better a page ta Copensatica

and Jax Diseas from chief of support, we Divisions "Per

conversatin a to

Outy status Reports aubmitted on Hunt. This should be

used as the autharity sa contrive his pay mithout

По 1.

these reports.

@memo fur Dep. Director fur support to Acting Chief

western Europe Division dated you 8, 1965

Hunt has

requested relet on howing costs. "i que tu.

the operätional

sensituty if tunts assigment, ns coquest for relief on his

housing casts was banaled by me Thoross karamessiae, as

15 sept 1965, me. Karamessner, ascaued his being remouescu

on a 15/95%0 bases far: the excess allowable casts unite,

but not to exceed, to do above his juarters allowance.

O memo, dated Fab1, 1974 la Generad Gaylor's recollections

tak negarding his knowledgs of the wretings of me Huot andany

official who might be aware of tre arcuinstances of any agency

involvement in that effort. a"'he became quare that Hurt,

while in wh, was accomplishing a steady flow of spy books, and

..that.security.approval.was.not.terng-requestec.on the

manuscripts betore submission ta publishers. Gen. Gaynor

_aduised that angreat he raised the issue, "up front" on several

47055 DooId:32271070

Page 3

---

## Page 4

-3-

eccasions. The martin he recaned to hi raising the issue

was that "keep your shaking nose out at thi bunbess..

He stated: tick be was lead to belieue that mattems desred

to improve the image of the intrilligence professioin

and thee

Agency and that hunts books were a part of the progsam

to do son the staced that be wer dever told outright that this

was the case ; but the responses he received lead him

to believe, this sas tbe cose. 1

He suggested tus peuple una night clear the Issue-

Ray. Rosa" anci

water ffarzhener. "both of whom were involved

ln tbe "image" materials.

nile stared that Pfürzheimer seemed to be

awars of allthe details -on on ip to date basis - of Huntis departuce

From the ogenty to jain the pullie relation fim, tathe degree

that ven. Gaynor gained. the be is that Hunt was merely

moving his dest autside the bulding out being paid by the

same sause as

in reture

Also

Feb 6, 1924-00050- da E254, 1924-Farzheimer wai

intermiewed.

"Tois intersew was uncertakan

maneffert to

determine it Mr. Hust had acted nany capacity in cooperatos

with counter Intelligence operation , When Pfazheimer discouered

Hirst had wates. On Hazardou Du's; he called Karamessines.

map recalled that from the natur of or karandessioes!

reaction that he had uncauered: a sensitue matter of sedios

officer concern "Withins minutes Helms called efurzbemer

_who-remembers_the substance of the conversation being "firchrist

sake walter, the is the first bod to comealong and say

•NW. 47055

DooId: 32271070 Page 4

---

## Page 5

something good about the agency," "ny not leave the Goddam

thing alone miif believed thai:

"Helms or karamessines

casid answer the questus at whether Hunt had Agency

spansorship fue his booki

= The memo states that 1tu0t

was assigned to the

• affice ef the Deputy Dicecter Foc Operatens

Book uxa published during 196t

tant was assigned to..

madrid as a contract agent.

- 19606- 3 books apReared.

1967-1 600k

1,196

19m9,.

19-1, 81907-1 book y=

Adel 30, 1970- Hunt alacially exed as an Agency statt

emplajee "The athce at secucity record did nut develop asy.

indication that any of the daud st John manuscrips

were ever subm tech fit reusew in accordance with Agency

regulatons.

9- menu tor record- Feb 6, 1971 Osubj: Possible Ageacy

Sponsorbp ot the

David staToar Novelsia

A conference

was held with peude from the a a offre: " the speculation

was entertamed that me fouard Hunt had, in fact, been under

Agency sponseship .with the knowledge af mr Richard Helms

in his preparation at a series af spy novels under the

pseudony, David stope it can be accepted as a reasonable

suppositica that mr tuat had sime highly compartmented

financal arrangement authorized by senur Agency officiäls

to write there books, then itis likely that this relationship

continued alter muttunt officially retired, " "Minutes from the

Offue of Legislative (cunsel-made references tu a concern ot

Senator Baker

over an alleged; inancial relatenship. between

NH 47055

DocId: 32271070

Page 5

---

## Page 6

me: Helms and-raretant unich continuad subsequent to maltunt's

forma! retrement, "i": Baker macle reference to a payment

at some. "30,000 with the paien thetical comment that

Me Heims would net have that enoust of muney from his

private hinde sa smalayeeat to staff.:

aaroner that "if

the agency had spunsaced the stitoen beaks, it was likely

at ros tunt had so interred senator Bakeri

i Inerier with Rayund Dosa- Feb 1i, 1914- Asked about

finanang us lurt, mr Reccad des punted "on the record? that he

has no knowledge af any such arrangements nor at any tone wai

he party to aay assistance at or any requests for assistance

to nor tunt " Ventuced opinion,that' in all probabelty an official

acquiesconce on the part at semior o fcials might have been

muded rather than an afficial sponseshis.

@ interview wits chef, contract Persunnel Divisina

15 Feb 1974- stated that "aith ugh it was not commis

-practice is

was not entrely unu ual for bighly seasitive

watracts to be administered shout the contracting

otfcer being qware at the oprationa! objectie milved."

@ antercen with former chie:of Suppert

= western Europeas

DLUISLUR- 1985 Date: 15 Fes 1924- Asted re Hunts activities in 1965

"., frace his recollectur it was Hunts habit to deal anywith

the most senior officer available."" He was never briefed on the

purpose af Ma Hunty mission.."

RW. 17055

DooId: 32271070

Page 6

---

## Page 7

=6=

O memo fur record dated ill Feo 1974, le Ojficeos

Enance Recaras- E Howara Huict.=

Hunt-departed D.COn 5 hug19 is and arnued madnd en

16 Aug 1965 Hunt was par

paid tbroujs an account at the eiggs

Nat Bans ia Dili An aperatiunalact was establsbed fie mrnttuurrt

costi Chase mannadan, anere was no record of anyaperarenal

arconatsoe

aduencas beng processed througa thu channel mai

sale stated that thes fact

dehned_insconcerni..He.feit.thatit

was inciaacemvable that m

mrstunt could haue undertaten

apecatonal actauity usthaut son transfer of dcaccainting

for funds" to date, nonich recordi: haue beea developed

No referença to a

project äf project digrapo ac operationial

ERA numbec has been lecated " Allexpensei connecied wits

me tuat identised to date were-charged to the madrid

Statua Suppori A rauen made af miadred statis recordi narnot

indicated any "Developmental and trget of Uppuctunby (D8TO"

finces or "ather operational Actwity (QUA) " fund expencled

by ac aa behalf ot madunt. tt ble two accausts would

nurmally be the source af operatnal funding oot charged

against a specifia project activit, "" Arevei af trqvel voucheis

allo failect to dleatity a project. There was a vaucher suc

abriR t0P6 & rsturn to maded. Jon5-8;1966- The voucher

-states in tbe space praulded: for thi atatun of the trauel order

number-"nu trasel orderio Tnesceiuinting was appraved andl

signed oy karomessnes,-@ nosutt caten cr statemen" of purpose.

mr. Vole noted tot the royalty offirt waiver prousiin apended

_to Muntis cnitrait was, in his experience, somewhat unusual.

NY 47055

Doold: 32271070

Page 7

---

## Page 8

inno

The attice of finance Director sated that from his experience,

mikaronessines would haue delegater all the arranging cof kdetails"

surraunding an assignment such as natunts to mc det

He offered his sucome

at what he: nerpreted to be reticence to date

ta inderdew mot

viologe

I meras fur recora-al fed 197 subj's watergate.

"Empoyees

means censed June, 922. phor to reticement

was an affia in she-External Esplyment Assistance Branch

Retirement Altures Disso of the ottue ut Personnel. He was to aisist

un fuscling post-retusement eradloyment te hau been astrumental in the

placement of Hunt in the Rüber R. Mullen PeSsm. Hea

laur to wasting fur Personnel, din

served with the central

cover statt in the area dealing in the the funding of covert action

projects le had become familiar with actustei

Hist functined on the covers Acturies staff, Bullie

Huat conte

i first come

sa contact with mullen company it en he was attemsting to

handle the public relatue effert af a couert Agency activity

snown as the Free Cuba Cumnastle...

"In a respore to a quester as 1, unethec or aut executue level

Interest was still being shown is matunts pust ensplayment

placement, marie recalled that Hams, then direltor, was listed

as a character reference da me Hunt's resume and Helms signed

a letter of recommendation to the ker decott copper ca an Hinth behal".

- contact was maintained with rituat at the mulled co. an

Euplayed

a continuining basis, because mrs i

a interested. in Dr

-Hunt for possible referrels fot athe -Agency cehreers) a dealso

ND 47055 Dockd: 32271070

• Page 8

---

## Page 9

ündesstood there was cousr arch cmmercial staff interest in the

mullen co, and that matint lecame instrumental in

discussing seural aspects of the cover-operations la bir

capacity as an affores

of the cunpala

Dethun»: contacted

on several occasions. requesting referral

of reticing ajency coployees with sectic gualitcations.-after Hust

Bad joined the white House.

ise Recallica request for anindividual:

hawing stuls in the area

It was in

en of locks dad so succeptitous entry

trat she duties iowed wawid include

the monitoring of a isteng a

-devs:: in an undeclosed locatica

Huot also requested a recommendatin of a securiry service

organization to carry our an ele tronie cauntermeaiires

Sweep."

suspected: the electronic countermeasures sweep

was to: be

Lant in the affies of the committee to lecelect.?

tbe 8322.

suas outed it he eer referred anyone tu mccord

píoye

Associates " He hadn

recallic that at the time at ticks

assigionest ta madrid the statemeo: dusemnated fur ecosumphen

within the Agency wai

the on. tant walleticing

tar wai not generally belieued. He was quite certain that during

tai peread hers atfice handled ba praject funding for tunt.

On mr Huat's retuca to italf emalaument the projects and tunding

wnech.stogped in thy 1465-were 0890,

raumed.

5 a3 Feb 1974- oreeting with

*- He thought it wai

entray passible Heimsd karamessined hardled the Hunt-madad busines

on their own. He didn't know anyth. as

__ Interuiew with furmer Deputy bef vi Western European Disun,

DoP-aa Feb 1924. He stated the ssignment of mritint to the

European Division& to madred leas handled without the beretst

NN 47055

Docid: 32271070

Page 9

---

## Page 10

of the coutine processing procedures through the weslern European

Dinaria, Hunts assignmeat was coordinated and directed by

Karamessines.$

He wai unaware of any specte project on

target for tunt munt produced posst ve intelligence on the Iberian

tanget duang this penach the officials responsible fur the offeels

responsible tic sheltect within the vestero Eumpend Dius

were totally unaware of it!

i mo mas ot info he had about Hurt

wai hearsay, far exonate.

acomment was made bija situal

acquaintanco to the elect that tuntstated that while in

madrid

he

wai garag 30 "play alf and write booki'""

His personal ginian -that tuns had no operational functurand

was sirably granted

ed the oppoctinite ta weste books for bis oun

personal gala at gous expense

Enema fur she record, dated al Des 1973, cunversation!

with C/Iberian dest in laus, 65.

the was told by

Eur * cha had been tula by karamessinier

•that Huat was

to be assigned to madrid a peos as adirected assigment by lemms.

The Ambassador wauld not bas tuat

After a coHose

nonths ar; he was told that Hun was going ta spain under

anofficial cauer. It came to bin lion karamessineron Helms'arder

tunt wai to have the phone # at the cis jout he would do aothog

or the statoo Hunt was to submit amasstratzue vouchers far

aimbursement of his expense & #eywere to be paid He lancus

that there was no operatural repartit, tu indicate that Hunt was

donganytbag. cos-maded.had tol.bim that he didn't know what

Hurt diel.

NW 47055

Doold: 32271070

Page

10

---

## Page 11

@ a2 Fen ia24- sensen at Finance recaras to dermine is a$30,000

payineat ta Hint that required no a counting could be fanci."

enikarrauel clowns fur 1960-19321

Boclyzed

itunts adhrance

accouat for se in madrid

# and hove determined that

333,500 was aquanced so hna for travel and transportation

with one teo to pail to renew visas. one Hem appeared hausual?

as expenditure of 11,600 suca sesitive operation waich was

aparqued for wedlooff by me Desmona sezgerara an itureall

"Destrange aspert af the non afficul cour assignnient in macric

is that all the costs

a mere changedhi to the support allotment

of the EUR: Division

which is no: normal as sorofficial

cover people are usua

usually

M assigned to the project Itsenuint

to have a case officer abroad for one jear on an operationz! :

assigament withuit bino incurang operational expenditures.

@ memo dazu a may 1974, by chie:jOPs/osa re "Watergate

File Research Final Repast Recalls that there were accasional inquiries

by am rendents of madrid arant the reparted presence in Spaia

of_

EtHunt: At no time dia tot cotact him. There was sime info

197à concerning reported actutes is Spain by Robert vexo..

all aroct 1924 mema from Dir, of Secury - "Leavesecords reflect that

for the four week pay perred ending as Nouember 1963 matunt

took a total of ll hours sick leaue and no annual leave

Ja tbe

follawing tour week pay period, retook 3 hauss sch leave

and 27 hours annual leave. We are wichle to further Ideat ty the

dates on wnich the above sick and annual leave were taken.

Travel records reflect that mathunt conducted no othcal travel

ducing-the month of Nou. 1963."

OK

•NN 17055

DocId: 32271070

Page 11

---

## Page 12

eD memo fur recara, 20 Sept 1924-by SeD. Breckincidge

si Hint's" travel recordi

oft cal trauel in September;

October and december, but Done

November ; all at this

travel was to new York" "

m-states that

already know, as a result at responses to previous requerts

that we

have no records on stingis that would show

2-010-386

similar informatio s he wasnot an agency employee

"Securty prauded w with a colin by taek Anderson, of ?

16 April lazy, in wbich ha covered she Hunt-sturgit rumuc,

durassing it. A caay af the ness columnis attached this would

suggest that rather aban pola photograpis of persons

mounded up and booked, the prstagranbs in question are

candina spapshots of crowds. If this is correct there wouid be

no related palice fingecount reuids that could bechecked

fer verticansin

@ memo fur Deputy Directer for a drainistratin from Dir of

беснову :

Sübj Steffent Date 23 Oct 1924, DISCUsIES

allegation regarding hunt$ stigis: "me Sticu was dot

assaciated with the Agency ir any manner lp lovember

1963.": FBI haison officer interviewed Hunt on Boct

1974 and tunt aduled at that time that he had learned

of the assassinatica af JFK "on his car radia While be

was in a leave status in thWashingtua Dice area."

@ memo fur the record, dated ao December 1973, by

Breckinridge. Hunt was inthe Do Diussion and in Aug 1964

was assigned to the

'Egave → a a

possisle press treatment that dunt was engaged indomesti

apercitions (something senator Baker pursuing) and that

OK

NH. 47055

DocId:32271070

Page 12

---

## Page 13

hus assigncent to spain atter the electina could be presented

as guing him time to coal otf."

Background - 19 June 192a.

CaRk

Employed by cIA ham hau dia unal his vosuntary

retirement ad so ancillaza.

1971 - seed as anadusact Nuun-chiend trer.;

"Subject:

120104"

terest to the central Cour Staff

Dec laro- assignca

42:65

chief of storen-merico Ging.

secuedas

there entel 1953

June 19J4 to 5e6 153

COS- rentesides, Uruguay

....

•June 1960- assignedto mexic City- on Project- Bayof Prgi

Nou 1968- reassigned to the Doffcover Achin Staff

Jan 1962

to office of the ChieF/oDe

Tully 19k2-.

"to"

the DIDS Researchand Publications

sectica a washagha

July 1961

70

the DaD:: Couéct Action Staff

Feb 1963

"office of the Doe Loperatons Graue

Jure: 1905- seit 19600- contact agent- maded:

Sent 1966r Chief at Sucopera

covert operatiun intel

retecament 300auel 1s70

6 Nor 1920- grantea a cover i secucity Appraval tor

use by (entral cover staff (1 mullen

lazurelara Inquiry of Centor couer staff on latune l9za

revealed that thisis@ current-relatiensh..

Subject's ser file seflect that lunt n the past, has deeaaf

operatoral interest to me sam. Angleton.

OK

VRY 47055

DooId:32271070

Page

13

---

