180-10442-10223)

70x KS

(OLDEle. RF
ZL Y/

DRAFT - 10/24/78

MANUEL RAY RIVERO

‘
Manuel Ray Rivero was born in Cuba in 1924. (HSCA

#009005 Memo to G. Robert Balkey, 6/28/78, Interview with
hae aftshRan.,

Manolo Ray Rivero from Fonzi/Gonzalez)q Because of his

AL~ 1147,
outstanding performance as a civil engineer, he was granted £
a scholarship i by the Cuban Ministry of Public Works d°
pee PEE,
to, studgsat the aaiverbity of Utah. tisca 006468, p.9, Item 8,

FBI Manolo Ray References, Section 2) Ray was in the United

"Sew mod OTS
degrees Le :

States for two years but did not complete his work for a
ta To Cuber,
Masters Degree. (Ibid) 4 #e held various positions in the

engineering field, one of which was Project Manager for the
construction of the Havana Hilton Hotel. Frpiay

In May 1957, he organized the Civic Resistance
Movement which supervised sabotage and acts of terrorism
against the Batista regime. (Ibid) Fidel Castro appointed

iS

Qt
him Minister of Public Works in February 1959. (Ibid) -Pee
oe ast
fottoming- November,he was arrested and relieved of his

Conpen
ar. 700 bey Oodle) —regrremeg rw

official position. (HSCA 005990, p. 2, FBI Correlation Study,
Manolo Ray file, #97-4546, Section 1.) (ray athe tS otro
because of his communist connections. (Ibia)) uéAfounded the anti Co#
Movimento Revolucionario del Pueblo (MRP) in 1960, serving

as its Chief with the following individuals completing the
leadership: Raul Chibas, Special Assistant to Ray; Juan

Esteves Ramires, Secretary; Ramon Barquin, Military Intelli-

gence Matters; and Rogelio Cisneros, Chief of MRP in Cuba.

(CIA/Deputy Director of Operations, Manuel Ray Rivero file,

wo Now REPROVUCE
pi FO Gia

NW /oJaza

Volume II)



Manuel Ray - 10/24/78
Page 2

:
\

In the Summer of 1960,aRay was actively recruited

oe
Met Cha US, on how 10,1960
(1 Tr Cake DIE pe UMASH

che

by the CIA to become a member of the FRD, appreaches—being—
made—theeughRaul_Chtbes. (CIA/DDO, Ray Vol I) Ray's back-

ground was questioned by the State Department. (CIA/DDO Ray

Vol I, Memo to WH/4 Chief from Acting Chief, WH, 9/27/60,
Subject: State Approval to Include Manuel Ray Rivero into

the FRD Complex) and by the Miami CIA office (CIA/DDO Ray

Aaade ctor ley

Vol I, Cable from MASH to WH9, 9/29/60) Despite these
objections, Ray was granted Provisional Operational Approval
ean Wh hy dg the COM War
by the CIA on 25 October 1960/7 (CIA/DDO Ray Vol I, POA form)
His personnel papers contain the following assessment: "Subject
has definite political action potential, is a pro-democratic
official of government who is not in sympathy with aims of
international Communism and s4r6 is interested in strengthening
ties between Cuba and U.S. (CIA/DDO, Ray Vol 1, (eRostorn,.Part 2)

nad Oe

Not everyone in the CIA who knew Ray were in agreement

Section VI)

with this assessment. In a Memo for Record dated 11/21/60,

it was reported that, "...Ray did not politically represent
anything to cheer about." (cIA/DDO Ray Vol II, Memo for Record,
11/21/60, Subject: Meeting with King and Esterline on Subject
of Handling MRP) Another CIA officer who met privately with
Ray in November 1960 stated that his political posture was

doubtful as far as U.S. Government acceptance is concerned.

(CIA/DDO Ray VOL II, Cable to Director from MASH, 11/17/60)
a


Manuel Ray - 10/24/78

Page 3 a
Still another Memo for Record states that Ray's action. all
seemed directed toward making him the future power in Cuba

rather than overthrowing Castro. (CIA/DDO, Ray Vol V, Memo

for Record, 2 June 1961, Subject: Relations with Manolo Ray
and the MRP from Garis A. noey) The memo further pointed out
that it was believed Ray was so far “left" in his thinking
that he would be as dangerous (or more so in the long run)

to U.S. interests as Castro, if he ever got to be a power in

Cuba. (Ibid)

Ray made his a position very clear during a

private meeting with a CIA officey on November 15, 1960.7 (en/pbe, :
Ray Vol II, Cable to Director frém MASH) He said the MRP did
not wish to reinstate the 1940/Cuban Constitution and that
ee the eee ra tii passed at th¥ beginning of his regime would
: be_-peomulgated. (Ibid) Ray f\rther informed the CIA officer
that he believed the Sta shold regulate private invest- rod

ments and utilities shold be nationalized. (Ibid) Charges bey

«

of “Fidelismo without Fidel" werd made against Ray's MRP a
(cta/pbo, Ray vol 12/ contact repdet txom(Wallace. h. :
ariett) 10/17/60,

\ (88° Beruft,)10/1 /60)

The CIA received negative information about Ray from

ubject: Meeting with( Suan stevez)ana

prominent exiled Cubans. Ray was described by one exile as

highly dangerous because of his ambition to play a prominent


Manuel Ray - 10/24/78
Page 4

role in the Cuban government after Castro's overthrow. (CIA/DDO,
Ray Vol II, Memo for Record, (ohn D. Peters) 11/8/60, Subj:
Contact Report on Meeting with(Roge1io Gonzalez)’ miro Cardona
was opposed to Ray, believing his program was too Marxist.
(CIA/DDO Ray, Vol. III, Information Report from U.S. Citizen,
Free-lance writer and part-time sugar broker, 12/22/60) and
also stated that Ray was bitterly anti-American as well as
probably totalitarian in his thinking. (CIA/DDO, Ray Vol IV,
Memo to S ~ Dr. Berle from ARA - Philip W. Bonsal, March 16, 1961,
Subject: Recent Cuban Developments) Manuel Artimegadvised
that Ray's group, MRP, was opposed to banning the Communist
Party and in favor of “nationalizing everything". (CIA/DDO,
Ray Vol IV, Cable to Bell from JMWAVE, 3/1/61) Although

pathic, the CIA actively recruited Ww
aware of his controversial, eed) /ray was-aetively-reerutted

to join the FRD. (CIA/DDO Ray Vol II, Cable to Director from

MASH, 11/17/60) Ray-was—deseribed-as;—">++—e-naturat _teadex
of ht i cs i on" by
‘ i mp Yk Wht fewer | ir :
Ray received full operational approval as a“ political
asset “on 7 February 1961 (CIA/DDO Ray Vol IV) and
accepted appointment to the CRC on 27 March 1961. (CIA/DDO
Ray Vol IV, Memo for Record, 27 March 1961 by Gerald Droller,
Subject: Ray Accepts appointment to Council ....) Ray had
resisted joining the CRC because he felt the members were
too restrained and he did not want to become a part of a
situation in which someone else was running the show for the
exiles. (HSCA #04fo05, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78,

Interview with Manolo Ray Rivero, from Fonzi/Gonzaleg)


E

Ag- Soria Rerchanans Claman. Cheer Seles

a riag.a, 162.
Leaders

7
\h

EL ~ Cab is
may 27, (962,)

Varin PR, Bormule Blanco
acy, CHA/ppO Ray, Vor

fareld ale
teed
Fagan

ane,
ee
ae

Manuel Ray - 10/24/78
Page 5

Within a week, Ray met with a CIA officer and
complained that Miro was backing away from his commitments
and ‘was not willing to give Ray any voice in the Council.

(CIA/DDO Ray Vol V, Cable from JMWAVE to Bell, 4/3/61) He

Hea Aante A § ths Garrod Vad iar
erie to HSCA investigators thet certain influential and

wealthy Americans, among them William Pawley, opposed him
and a lot of heavy propaganda was circulated at this time
accusing him of being a Communist. (HSCA #009005, Memo to
G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78, p. 4, Interview with Manolo Ray

Rivero, from Fonzi/Gonzales) Sg was—persuaded_to_remain
; Rag

in-the-er¢—as-a Show -of-untty—but withdrew from the organization 4\-

shortly after the Bay of Pigs invasion and requ GIA

Vol V, Memo£or~Récord, 2— 1961, Subject: Relations with
Manolo Ray and the M! 2 owt) ond

In October 1961, the Puerto Rican Planning Board
announced that Ray had accepted a position as consultant to
that Board,wm@ Ray took up residency in Puerto Rico. (CIA/DDO
Ray Vol VI, Memo for Chief/WH Division, 10 October 1961
or | Subject: General - Cuban Matters;
Specific - Manuel (Manolo) Ray) He was looked upon with great

favor by the Puerto Rican government./ tain ypp0 Vol VII, Cable
dated 2 July 1962 to Director (from San“Jua otthirng te

paidem sted oot wes apprlerg MRP. (OL

Manuel Ray became actively engaged in recruitment
of Castro defectors in the summer of 1962. (CIA/DDo Ray Vol VII,

Cable dated 25 July 1962) His efforts were initially directed


Manuel Ray —- 10/24/78
Page 6

toward the (Gu ) (era/ove Ray Vol VII,
cable(to% Mexico “6 from Director, 23 August 1962) and
later Cuban officials in Paris and Brussels. (CIA/DDo, Ray

#77272) File reviews failed to ascertain if any of his
endeavors were fruitful. (quete Dia Capertee)

In the two months preceeding the assassination of

19 dune 1963,

file Vol IX, Cable to Director((

JFK, Ray was travelling in Lating America -- Honduras, (CIA/DDO
Ray Vol XI, Field Information Report, 1 October 1963)

gy Costa Rica in late September 1963, (CIA/DDO Ray Vol XI,

Dispatch to chiet smn (Exo ; 3 October 1963) and
Venezuela in October (CIA/DDO Ray Vol XI, Memo for Record,
2 October 1963 from Alfonso Rodriguez) devoting his full time

to JURE, (CIA/DDO Ray Vol XI, Draft, 4 October 1963 by

Rodriguez, Subject: Manuel Ray Rivero)
On November 1, 1963, he met with a CIA officer on

St. Thomas Island to discuss JURE plans to begin operations

inside Cuba by the end of December. (CIA/DDO Ray Vol. XI,

Memo for Record from AlfonSo Rodriguez, Subject: Meeting with

Ray in St. Thomas, 31 October - 1 November, 1963) JURE was

to be involved in an infiltration plan known as Operation Bola,

(CIA/DDO Ray Vol XI, Cable to JMWAVE, from Director, 12/3/63)

to commence when the CIA cached materials for JURE on 25 November.

(CIA/DDO, Ray Vol XI, Cable to Beat Ne from Director, 18 Nov. 1963)
Flowsans , Ray told HSCA Pere ates he was in Caracas on Novembsr

22, 1963 with Rogelio Cisneros and could not recall the dates
Ww rong


Manuel Ray - 10/24/78
Page 7

the CIA/JURE operation was to have taken place. (HSCA #009005
Memo to G. Robert WAjkey, 6/28,78, Interview with Manolo Ray

Rivero, by Fonzi/Gonzales, pp 6-7) The JURE ship failed to

pick up the cached materials on 25 November 1963 as scheduled
and Ray gave the CIA no full explanation forthis failure.
(CIA/DDO Ray Vol XI, Memo for Record, 13 December 1963, from
Alfonso Rodriguez

“The Western Hemisphere division of the CIA received
worgj in April 1964 that in the late 1940's, Ray had been
closely associated with a-known Puerto Rican Communist and
was friendly with the Puerto Ricans who were working on the
rennovation of the White House and the group that tried to
assassinate President Truman. (CIA/DDO, Ray - Assorted
documents, Dispatch to Deputy Chief WH/SA from Chief of
Station, JMWAVE, 14 April 1964 in Mexico, D.F.) The source
of this information was referred to by cryptonym and when a
HSCA researcher requested the identify of the individual in
ApRrITse8, the CIA indicated that he was a “current asset"
of theixs and his identity~-could not be revealed. This
information on Ray was dissiminated to the Secret Service
{HSCA #008290, Item 3, Secret Service Administrative Profile, | ie
3/27-75 on Manuel Ray Rivero, Case # COz 33115, Subject: #0031])
and the FBI (HSCA #006468, Item 5, page 1, FBI #97-4546,
Memo from San Juan - Secret, dated october 12, 1964, Re:JURE)

Ray's primary activities the first half of 1964

involved infiltration plans into Cuba and are discussed in


Manuel Ray - 10/24/78
Page 8

the JURE section. The failure of the attempt brought Ray's
prestige to a near absolute. low point among the Cuban

exiles” (CIA/DDO, Ray Vol XV, Cable to Director from

JMWAVE, 6/10/64 nan effort to enable JURE to move its
activities from U.S. territory, the CIA made a final payment
to Ray's group of $75,000 for the period of 1 October - 31 Dec.
1964. (CIA/DDO, Ray Vol XVII, Autonomous Operations -

Operating Plan.)

aE : wo Cilcte Kite, !
Svat) Moc rrabittny Chast te MOC , foors
CBensch Seeunty Pla of2,dkk, Far Sunsing, doe, Vet 32, Sema, 47-410 -#7-3 )
An Conran the, Drath gh Umpretomondt™ J mang. of an
ind i 2 ~yenbore avd Chet Rag. te eee
tesa oat ” C Q 3
om 0 ee Qepe-Dared a pet qs. sad p : P3)
