# 180-10070-10156

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER

: 180-10070-10156

RECORD

SERIES

: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

---

## Page 2

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER

:180-10070-10156

RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO:

TITLE :

DATE: 08/22/7

AGES :.

SUBJECTS:

HSCA; ADMINISTRATION

SISSON, BETTY LOU

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS

: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/16/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 3.

[R] - ITEM

IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 3

SISSON, Blue

Name of Employce

• Address

Audrass

Phone Number

Position Titia

Posilion Number

Lovel

Jan.

reb.

-

Mar.

Apr.

May

June

July

Aug.

Sept.

Oct.

Nov.

Dec.

= 0.5 day annual leavo

= 1.0 day annual leave

0,5 day sick leave

= 1.0 day sick leave

0.5 day administrative leave

= 1.0 day administrative leave

0.5 day unauthorized absenco

= 1.0 day unauthorized absence

= 0.5 day leave without pay

= 1.0 day leave without pay

DATE OF APPOINTMENT

8-22-77

Stop

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE

"Years"..

"Manths"".

DAY OF MONTH

SS

OFFICE OF THE CLERX

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD

1978

YEAR

ANNUAL LEAVE •

CATEGORY

1.0

1,5

2,0

BALANCE BROUGHT

FORVIARO FROM

PRECEDING YEAR

3ick

Leave

ACCRUED

THIS WONTH

Annual.

Leave

Sick

Leove

THYS LAOLEN

Annual

Leave

Sick

Ltayo

TIIIS MONTH

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

AT CLOSE

DЕ МОнІК

Arawal

Leave

Sick

Leave

EMPLOYEE

INITIALS

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employeo's Signatura

Dutc

(11 employee refuses to sign, state reason bclow.!

Chief's Signatura

Date

Approved:

Clerk of the Kouse

Data

• This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar ycar, or in case of termination, along

with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnei folder. •

•EXHIBII T

---

## Page 4

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVE.

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Betty Lou Sisson

Employee Social Security Number

245-56-4327

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

Effective Date

7/15/78

Type of Action

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Title Change

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

• Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business.

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Specify Date

Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. • Standing Committee: Staff—• Clerical or • Professional.

2. 0

956

Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.==___of.

----_Congress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_

If applicable, Level.

Step.

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date -

-, 19_1

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STO

(if appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

Monthly Annuity $

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

ID

Benefits _

Payroll _

00 as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

---

## Page 5

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Betty

LOU

8/22/77

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

245 56

4327

Employing Office or Committee

L Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

Assa

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

Secretary

$14,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [ Standing Committee: Staff -] Clerical or [ Professional.

2. E Special or Select Committee: Authority - H. Res.465.

-__of

_Congress.

3. _ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_.

If applicable, Level__.

Step_

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date_.

., 19.

-- -

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

CHAIRMAN

(Title- If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:_

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $

00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

---

## Page 6

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of

Representatives require that,

among other things, the Committee's

monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of

each employee

to any current Member of Congress. This

certification

is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the

certification:

father

mother

son

daughter

brother

sister

uncle

aunt

first cousin

nephew

niece

husband

wife

father-in-law

mother-in-law

son-in-law

daughter-in-law

brother-in-law

sister-in-law

stepfather

stepmother

stepbrother

stepsister

half-brother

half-sister

Piease complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date

this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel

If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget

Office immediately of the change.

Lx/ I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

[/ I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

(Please specify.

81223/2?

---

