# 180-10144-10022

## Page 1

180-10144-10022

5/15/78

Version

Interrogation giden do Warren Commision

By

Mexican Goverdiner

On November 23,1963, one day. ofte the assaisintin

7. john 7. Kevinedy, the Centel tutellyer agenay'... Meric

Ct. Headquarters suggested to Hesican... ffrels that they arrest

syluca Jerado. De Ducas. (Mexi 7029 to thes

the DiRgetor, Nor as, ines ;

More a tria Eternia; Novele 23, 1942) Mair Coy beatin

ashed that... Sylvca Tirals de Duan be held in

she gave the Mesican Dient all Thing One

The tea great be it Shin hint de Dear

the pame daty Captau teraid tahing Barren, airistant

Wireter if the tabel Security police intensgeted her. at 6:00 p.m

that evening. (CE 2121, 35). Ens. swan stated that she boro the

mates the detay to the mad the untle gin tho

the assassin of then I temely I die that of the death f

Maicame Olivere, who had bee ocengying thest poston? (icted p.37

She stated that in pl late September or parly. October of 1963.

appeal at the came colt

haich. amican, by the name f the Hary Daald, Noplied for an with

visa to Russia It Cut to cell puantal viduce that be he

beese... in Risia for thee years, that he was missed to a Russian

Ordeaus pralled Fair Play In Cala", COswald stersed I Shin Dian

Central Intelligence Agency

has no Objection to Release

Dates AS SANITIZED

2003

180-10144-10022

---

## Page 2

5/15/18

C that his miss applicatin. should te sccepted as he was a friend

(shal p. 35)

ther. left and retured in the afterom pith the meccesary

get a te Dean. the that at shat this specking her..

duties, she telephoned the Russian. Consulite because f her interest

Calad p.

in faultating the haulling f the Ruisian iss fr the Hawey Oswall

The Rian Clay It her that there on i thin

appetimestly fris menths in piscising the case, which anged. the

Havey Orwald since, according to his statements, he was in a great.

hurry. to obtai visas to travel to Puises. It insisted on his right

I do to he viewe f his badgend legit,

- and his.. astrinties on.

behalf f the Chan novement, (bil p.39) When O swald indeed.

that it was not gerable I que line a Cuban isa chant his previnesy

(but 37)

staining a Rision iss, he became asterly angry, It this print, his:;

insan state che called consel age, he at tet tre won in his ..

Just f his fue and agent wad could in lighl sing age act

Mr ayere tle bite that a guan the him, inched fanting the cali

Riolution, did it hain I had to. O sinll it that jrent state that the bat For.

---

## Page 3

5/05/78

basis. for regaiting his wise wich ingeng, me, that lie nt to espise.

any are to, the end get in one too.

me. swan itted that

a spite of the argument she gave Oswall price f paper with her name.

e elt phone must on it, cited to the has interl the landling of his

ane-application by sending t to the bar Himstry of Foreign, from which a rashy...

chaned.. in the

han Duan stated that she loes not recall whether Orwald trequently acted her...

on the Consente phone winter which she hal given him Clad re Ducen

tate that all the conversations that. she mad lusit Oyare hal with O swall.

ere in the English bengage purce Oswald lil it penh any banish I telp.*)...

how fully, she stated that you seeny the Hawey housed's photoggh in she..

hit the reminded as te they Sun !'".

Afia Duan was reliasid No, 24, 1963 and rearested

194s. where tha

Hision gressment fount that Sylvia pas

tempting to leave Metics for Hava

(Cable fine Ambassador to Healguesteo,,..

C Nor 22,10, Mei 2104 CAd 483, Call fun ME Stem He Send matte

Nor 22,1863, Mesr-401, CrAd 492) Devery the interrogate she remembed

Dawald ofedly and desied he more so glarses (Calli fime Nepici

---

## Page 4

Original Signed Statement of Sylvia Duran Interrogation By

Hereton

Gautarent

-Sylvia. Ducan was arrestel on Nor 23. and intergated

et 6:00 pm. (see previous section) at that fame he petinent statements

but the assaisinatin and Ice Harvey Oswald were written drin

seen gressment and bylie signed the statement Gig

us? toon laining about the assassinatin she and her hustand..

peculith that Kennedy way have been assaisisited for pacal peasons.

Where she become aware that the assaises was Lee Harvey Oswald,

de accolanet that it was the same mare that about Two penchs

i hid been t the Chane Greete to pret an intensit.

sai to pussie, having then his name from the squeal.

docismentation he gusented: he was massed to a hussan woman

ad belonged to thie for play In Cale Consetter; she pheched

the data in the Consulate aschines and then she become stilai

that it was the pame pedideal, who was blouds, short, dressed...

inelegantly. and whoes face towed ed when angry, the ves was

lenied because, the Consul told him, that to ottarin ore from the

Can grenment I was impetic the he an i fun, thiet

(Consulate, Since attaining a insa fume the sits tock forus notuchs

and Oswald had to leave Metics pron, he became epcited, and Shan.

had to call the Gusul who had air argument with hive

---

## Page 5

I she only and she could give orade was se ationg that

he go. to the soviet Consul, and also calling. the person in charge.

f the. ffice. The smieet ffecial toll her that they wall have to.

nault sloser, which onll-lake four menths, That flenon, le tog

and retused to phe Cuban Comante and dylia Ducan confirmed

that he call ady joe a cale in pe he reined a Recion ins

she of gave Osuld hei name and business phone seanher but sever

pose him her alteis beause she hal we recoon to give it to him.

C she lnew that phoning the Gnanet was not one f her

dates and that if ake did so she dad it only to child oswald.

she gove here her, shoe number only becouse he would have to

call subequently to check whether he had obtarned a visa. He

never called luck I Blind News re I Haineg Owned I Sylsa Dusan,

Rovember 26,1963, CIA #473.)

Sylvia Duan was.

Row: 24,1963.=

c. 27(2).

NOT ALL THAT CLEAR, IS IT

1963J when the merican givenment frest that sylria wa

attempting to leave Mexico for Havana l Cable fine Nefico Headguanters to

Hemlogior lies., 1r Wexi Wexi CIA# CIA# 482; Celle fere Alejecan

Statem to Neakyanters, No 27, 1943, Medi al, CiA$ 493) Dung -che

interestini she remembered Orned onferely and denied he wre

---

## Page 6

1963, Wei 7364, CIA No: 557-558) Otherwise though there was no.

Ittion to her original story (ibed).

---

## Page 7

ON ATI

-the sxplaNations: " Dr The

MEXiCAN GOVErNMENTECOUld hAVE

ANiSEE GOT SEATEMENT

1, OrmoRs

The foelowing.

i materal friend in. the Warren Consersin

set 212 was wist in the slin grenment it i gein

he Ma Duran stated that she became the scretary to the consul thre

concho prior to the assaisinatin. I tha 7i Kennedy due to - the death f

tarainen Oliari, sho had been occupging the josition (Wa121 p,37]

alishing.

planation, Mis. Decar did not made this stoment in her seged affadant.

it the hetan greeneute could easily have discerned the alve because.

O it actually ones...

Oswald presented evidence that he hand beese in funsia for three yeois.

Explanation: althugh Mes Duasi did not state this are he segred statement

the spicans coll attubte it to her because it appeared on Oswalds

iban visa apolication Insert [ses attiches]

is Oswald: stressed to Aylica Duan that his vesa applicani.

chill be accepted as he was a friend f the Cuban Rotation, Lited p.3?

yplanation: It is pissible that after ee Marsey Oswald stateh that he

about getting a tess

velonnged... to the "Fair Play for Cabs Committer" aid there agned that

I the secon goverment cult have hasemed that he had fiscall

stated. that his visa application: should he accepted as he was a

-friend f the Cuban Revolution,

---

## Page 8

Also, in a table from the slaves City station to Heregattes

э: Not 23, Chief f Station Winston Seill intes That Echewassia toll

hine that Sylves Ducan stiled. that Lee Harvey Oowald shoved her

a Unted states paget showery a lay atay in USSA. LCale chef ?

Statin: to Naalgates, Ha. 23,1963, Medi 7046, CiA No. 426; Chionsgy, &

June Goolgastero, estry rio. 59, No: 23, 1963, CIA No. 638)

---

## Page 9

8

Oswald there lift and petuined in the afternoon swith the

wessary. photoginghs,.. (ibed p.39)

planation: The Select Committee or Assassinations can not fellittan

thyy.. this statiment is attubted to ho Duran if nowhere in her.

iquel statement she mentines photogughs. The only constething.

i g infrate the Crete find wis that te Castin Gene, Chemin

with the House Select Crimete in Assassinate

it that Osult did not bing a ghtgungh on his fust vesit

C to the Clan comanlate and this was fred to retro the

Oswall insisted on hea reget to obtani a visa in vico g

hia background, loyalty and his actrites on behaef f the

iban mosement: Libil p 39)

splanation: See number thric

Ma Duan stated the shild called Crank Ozone, who it.

hat tune was in his punate pfice accompanied by his

jcoming replacement alfredo Mirabal (ited p. 10)

Explanation:: The Hruse Select Committee on Assassinateria frand Mo

idlene. I this statement. It is not in to Duess's segreil

statement and Me, Eubir Agere an an intercio on

---

## Page 10

I stated that the was alms in his Spice, when Sylice Decon

called hise... to speak to Dawahh,. (

7. Mh. Azone toll Oswald that a peror like him, instead... f

ding the Cabar Pertuben, did it harm... (iled p 40).

Explanation: It is possible that the Helicow. greement mll.

anne, in egle of the agent sten oall and age, the f?

azave wald made such a statement.

Si She also instated the handling f his visa applecative by

sending it to the clan Hersty f Foreign Relina, fine

which a reply was received in the normal marines. some fiftic

to thily dags later, aporg the issuances f a mess, on the

condition. that he preventy ottaii a fussian reas: libad p 40)

Explanation: although the seen

as. not in Wis Derans

sigued statement, 'I actedly scared and the besion guernet

and have athled the statement the her. HOW?

9. Mis. Duces stated that she does nit seall whether Oscold

subseguently. called her on the Consulate ohme number which ahe

Chad guine chris... (stant. p.40)

Explanation: Mrs. Duan. never reads the alme statement. In fact.

in her sequid statement she said that she had gives him

---

## Page 11

I her winers olome number decause de comed hive to call

subsequently to check whether he hard oltanet a visa, but that

he had. never called bamnte,..

10. Sylvia Duian stated that all the counciations that she and Chockin.

azuse had with Osald were in the English language price Dawall dad

not geal any Spanish (ild 40) 2

Explane ten i Sylics does not state this in her signed Itlement The stepeas

gincement and the Centeal Intelligences ajeney boch ind information feor...

I the taps Ithat a guan who called the donist Enlory; allyully

Oswald, pohe spanish in some f his enveisatin" See sectini on Russe

emern no I were there co's calls 3 Kip 2 it me indis

I Sylvin Dean statel that you pering See Haring Dewald's Statogngh

in the. newspagen, she immetentely recognized and stentfit it as..

say that when she become wware that the cassis was see Howe

sswald; she asceaned that it was the same mi that about that

months... sailies had heese to the Cabar Conste to solvet an

intransit visa. to Russia, having. taken his a ind ferne the ppecial

document, de gesected de ques mained to a Rescin eman

---

## Page 12

C and taliged to the Fare Plany Ir Cula Committer; she shocked

the data in. the: Conculate achives... and ther phe became perlani

that it was the same individual who was blonds, short, dressed.

inelegantly and whose face turned red where angry.. ( Slind Hema ne.

Lee Harvey Oscall + Sylvia Duian: Nveiber 26, 1963, CIA # 473)

cable from the Mexico City Statin to Healguaters M Mi. 23,1963, Chief f

Statin Winston Sciot ssites that Echeracia toll him that pylia Duces

Hath that she had recognged Oswill on IV Hoember 22 and hand

Staturi to Healgrades, Mr 23, 1963, Medi 1046, CANo 422; Chilogy anne

tardiaten enter mo mo 2-23, 2w-23, 61A No 637).

C

---

## Page 13

C I feling material found in sier sean's agued statement

never made... its usy to the baren Conmessins Exhibit 2121...

1. Where she became aware that the assaisen was Ie Harvey Oswald,.

he ascertared that it was the pame sian that abit Two morch

anher had been to the Chase Consulte to sleet an intransit vesa;

C Russia, having taken his same fross the special documentation he

sentel he was massed to a fussians woness and belonged to the

Fair Play 7a Cula Commithe, she checked the dats in the Concutale.

achines and them she became entain that it mad the samic...

individuct, who was blonde, shot, dressed unclegantly and whore face

ned red when anguy. (Blund Mens ne. See Harvey Oswald + Sylvie Duran, 1326/43, CIA *+

Explanation: The statement attabsted to Wus Derase in the enterrogatin.

got given to the warew Conscisson was at the abre but the

feeling ' stire Decan state that you seeing the Hainey Orwald

stigagh in the mergains, she inmeditely reguzed aid shuntfied.

2 sylera Duan's ojiial statement to the berrean fficils it.

Capers that swall may have had the argument with the Cand

i his fust visit to the candie and t it fine tuned

with photographs to the Conculate and arted in a mere capsied me

---

## Page 14

(13)

C Explanation. This can he esplained in the the my the original

is written... It i just statements and is not in asey cheological

ander. (Jhis quester vill be explained here we quester her in betio

aity.

Be the only aid she ill give Oswall was antristing him

to go to the smiet Consil. (Blind Hemes ne Jes Hanny Osinned

eSlice Dian: 1421/13, CIA$ 473)

Explanation: lui Wanen Commissin philat 2121, received fine the

sion grenment, it spence that the claud fere,

sisted Oswall? vise application and never ffered hind

it alge not In then Denis i tent in be ca

dissensited to the 7BI, State Department and the White Hase,

Heatzusters glute fum the Messian police regent f Deanis

interrogaten i "The Conand them spoke by telphine to the peson

in change of that office, and was infrimed that the case woll have

to be refered to Hoser and that there porld be a free penith

C dilang (Cable Headgesten to. Cold, Statest White Huss, DIT 85758) Jhe

6M.... -

---

## Page 15

( 14)

Lie

Aylvin. Dwas... stated. that Iee Howey Opwald vested

the Cuban. Consulate on only two ocennsions.. The stated. that the

first visit secured. on the morning f a day in wither late september.

or. early. October. The second visit. occured on the after f the same dite. The.

The Cursint twice

isits surt on Setinker 27 1963 A phone call fume sylica Duea

to the soviet antoing at 4s5 pre that afternoo appears in the troussigh.

I the statini surveillen the set Gita, in hich she doceans.

C

Oswall's case with a somet fficial ho ass her phone number

to call her back C classiful Staff Summong I Pican 7 CIA Documenta, 319/78.

ip. 6=7, CANeS 320-32; - Calle fume Mefio Cety to the Drector, "12/ 63, Her 7025, 21A

105-218-219; CiA Transenge from Russian Entary, 119/13 civ 27) 02 4266 pm

su dentified devil Crusulate iffiel called Syle Duan ingining aticke

he americaro... categor had been-to the Cuban Conscite office, Sylves

esponded affinstly, responding. that. the smean was at the free it.

hat... Trmie.. ( Clansified stuff Summary f. Reineio... 8: C19: Document, 319/18,

ip 7=10 , CIA Nos 321-324; Cable fum Mepies City to the Duentor, "/23/13,

( Medi 1005, ClANs 219-221; CIA Transing fun... Russian Emberay, 91: 113,

CIA No.30) he allitin the visa applicatin is dated September 27t aul

Ms Eusebio Agere in an priterrei on

---

## Page 16

ou. ansassinatios. stated that he recalled? sold vested

At leASt ONe aN the dAy the ApplIcAtiON WAs ded

Carban. Consulate/outh 27th f Sytenter..

Jhe Aruse Select Committee on Assassinatoris has. also

frend eredenes.... that shows that... O swald visited the Cabare

consulate not tore tres as the man statet but thei

times. A phone call from Syluca Decan to the set Embassy

at 1151 an on satuday: sept, 28,1963 appears n the trange.

- Ws. Дела

-the electories suveillance f the saret Consulate.

Cats, there was aw. amiscan Fitizen at the clan Conantele wh

had prevenuly rested the Inveet Consulate She subsequerly put her on

the fine: and.. he conversed. with the Smeat Pril in Russio..

(Classified Staff Summary Z Revier Z CIA Documento 79/18, pp 10-17,.-

CIA NoS. 324326; CIA Transcipl fem Russian Embarsy, 9/28/13, CIA No. 25).

---

## Page 17

Contral Intelligense Aguary Cables Re Duran

..... November. 23, 1963,

"The centurl teens agent set.

le. aguey stated that she mao a ilefica cetzen who had gut... Orall

i touch with the bout Embassy They give Cherise a ste weh

Our endles, cheri miches attres her bather's alders, her bunse pit

his home phone intes and her place f wate. The Centel Intellence Agency alo

riggsted that Duan le held incomical intel she cal be guestime on the..

setter CRite te Lies Chivasa to anest Sylica Durari, Raember 23, 1923,

On the sams day the chief. fi states, Weston Acott, reenied at hone

call from Fact WhittI in Washingt Jangly Hedguarters asiag that.

Sylice Duran not he arrated. Wenaton seth told Fash Whittithat it

ser late, shat he call not me, trust and that in mean I

bull already have received a cable which stated that Echeraria had

licity bein tel to anest Sylica, as a Westcan intestore.

INste Wette by chiff Statin re phne call wich Jack Whitle

Rn 23,1965; Chionlogy guard by Anne Herbastere, WX7Z4, entry 37, CIANO, 635).

---

## Page 18

7

i on 70723913435

Winston. seat tilighed Tues. Ectoria

aired. statein that We wild hags that her arrest sunch be. Kyrt

alishutely secret, that no informaton from hes is. published on leaked,

that all infrination from her is cabled to Washingto inmedatily

through me; and that his anest an't statements. not apread -to an

liftist gimps... (Chiff Statin phne call to Sis Eterance, No 23, 1943, CLA No.

chroning i sa gast, i entry t ember 23,1963, CIA MaLal Flash Call fun

The Contral datelegance agency! intrest in Sget Duar

dest shanting the veer station Eas pes

the actions grirnent.

aare Abramber 23,53, Chenaria called the Mesic ....

chief? Statin Winston feart with the fist rants o the dylves

Durase intercogatin, He slatil that shia Dean hal guer a

---

## Page 19

Citin pete ent atty to the Did it, into never

Sylver stated that Lte

Be is est doting a long dry in the ISS. Case ghe

drean. wnte. up. p.T)... She also istated that she recognight Dewall

on TV. No.22... and Fold her husband, Anatis Duean abnot the

Om Nember 24,1963 in a cable from the Medio city statio

to Helguarters, tich consisted o abditinis o amendments to what Cheari

had aheady Ill Winstm. beat abut Sylvis Dean's interogation, the

(filming was attubated to sylie Ducan:... The paisont Osunch

hawed... her.

pI). Duan had the inquision that Daweld had or belined he

had made nagements in Washingtow wherely instructens would be sent

to the soviet Enlassy. in Medico to issue his a boret entry vess

in a manner by whech he umll. not have to visit the sireet Embassy

himsey. (Cable fine Nepier City Statin t Meadquater, Mo. 24,1978, Mexi 7054,.

CIA no. 423-424; Cherudogs 8 Qune Gorgestine, Por 441963, entry no. 21, CIA No. btl).

though. This statement. is attubuted to Afres Decan as larly: as Nor 24,.

C 1943, et does not appea is elle Alrea Duan's pigsel

statement nrr... in 6E2121 givew to.. the Wanew Conemesienio.. by the

euro. from transcRipts.

alexican greenment

---

## Page 20

Insect

18 a

What appears in the trangts is that Sylve had

sent. the overcion. to the frict Inlessy stating that his arguering

assued That that wild be no puller... (Clans fred Staff Sain

pReview f CIA Dozine, 7918, 0p67, CIA NoS. 320-321 ; Calle farm

intelico City to the Diseat, /0/63, Mei 725, CIA NoS. 218:219; CIA

presenia from luoin Calamy, Moles, GA No 27)

---

## Page 21

Om No. 24, 1963, Headgwarters yet wored sbort. wihat

osculd, may have told Sylice Dear about his future flaws. it

a calls fum Neelquarters to the Wete City Stater, headquarters win

after amlying all the traffic and reading the-statement one inputant

quite tell juggles as. When the t an nes aty in lite

september. and early. Otter to get a seet visa and a Caban bar.

disa, did he want to tand to clin right away, alone, on h

his wife goen him these and thew leave fue Cale, or did hi

I plan to reture to the stater fud and ther. have bit!'

althnugh it agears that he was then thaiking orly abut a percy

change. fresidence to the cret in, it is aber prisble

that he was... getting documented to make a quich sange after.

mashing the predat Place petely gom her,) manil

and give... us. you agesin, and also have Hepicans quester

on this

Fly no 57, CIAN

Om Norember 25, CIA Washingto Heatgade reguatel a Hopier Ct,

Stater cable. ammay fall statin information on Syrie TiDuser, They coo

Cognited the

Haney Oswald in Anitacts with the Chen and finest Embasha. (Calle fer

CIA Nerdjuser, Pm 25, 1963, DIS 8412L, CIA No 103 Chumes, 8 One Greene

---

## Page 22

Avember, 25,1963, entry. no, 87, CIA No 647)

The tiles CSteglict to Dies4986 on ther paine. bang

perching the Hea wasters all the infoscaton they powered on Sylves Dueen.

and staking that

Sent s 9.

visita ( Calli from Notes City Statin to Mendquater, 3r 25, 1963, Mexi 7065, CIA No 1.

Nit. only was the Centect Intellegese aginay concured wich Mes...

i enverten Seen Prich Daters and Can Anderado Jorgin Demand

Amas, Dotes ashed dearly Quas if the depro grement Stered Sylvia

swear may my pr that she wild ray thet cater ayere bat

feed may to the American dIe Harvey Oned) (Calle fum Messes Ct, Stalam.

Nor 25,1943, entry: no 95, CIA no. (48)

An. a cable dated Nor 26, 1943, Ontarzelo Akann regausted that.

Dean use, He Cone arl Stover be giren the fillerg piggistenis... fam

CAlamade Agate and he treater between Dolera did Alertig

downs that Agle Dean be Till that she is the orig leving a. Cher

she lens the full story and here she is so the same orders that

---

## Page 23

that her. only chance. for serenal is to come plean with the whole. flory

and to corpucate couptilly with the bleen gressment in petein. for

lisa greet quitectin. They als suggest that the Merenes pianist

Iylrica... Durase immediately. so as to eliminate the pershity f her

beg Amuggled. ont f also to Cuba o telled here. (Celle fume Neperio

at Stetem to Malgiate, Naember 26,1963, Mexi 7072, CrANe 387; Chandigy f

Aris Artistice, November 24,1563, enteg M0 97, CIn 649)

On Herember 26, the Medican giverment, friseded copies. f

Agle Duesis pignek statement to the Centerl detellegace agary

Onu Nrember 27, 1963, 7 Washing lA Heatguater asted the Heler.

ty tatin to request the neser autholics to interrogate sylvia

Dusan to the extent necessary to claify the ostriling prints.

bich had been raised in their cables the green to his. Heatgunter

watch that the Never City. Stalin aned purede questinis to the

meqcan.. intercogators hut that they wed That no. American

(

City. Statin, No 27,1943, De 85318, CIA Ns. 497, Cheology 3 Anne Gorkyetwe

Mr. 27, 1963, entir ns 121, CIA N. 653.)

---

## Page 24

(

Om November 27,1963, the Chef f Statem was mitfuck t

Luis.. Ecleracus: at. 1215 that Sylver Deean had bere rarested. becau

she. was attempting. to leave. Helico fur Cila.. (Celle to Heedguartere fur

Mexico City, Arvember 27,1963, Medi 1101, CIA no. 493; Chenology 6 anne

Footpaster, Noverbee 27,1963, est, Ma 125, ClAso 655).

Om Anember 27,1963, Ambassado Mann requested the hesis aly

staten to pars a cable to sectary 8 State, Dian puake with there

O. sinkiesing alrasado Ugate and guttering here azarest Ducen

O rarel f. Sylvia. Ducer

@ request fu arest p Eusebio agene, alfrdo Hestel, Tuss Allen ind

I Cable Nepio aty staten to Healguanter,.

ozember 22,1963, Were 7104, CIA no 481; Cheolozy 3 Anne Hartfastero, Anember 27,

-1963, entay no. 126, COA w. 655). 1

On Harember 27, 1963, the Meren Cly Stel sent a phtestate

copy 3 Sylvea Aurens ten page pegret ptatement. ( Cable Napero

City Stahm.... to Healgante, Ivember 27,943, Med 2105, CIA. No 479; Chantag

3 are top tend Tree 27,1963, Gut 110 127, ClA Mo. 656)

Or Anember 26,1963, the Central Intelligence Agemey Washington

CHeatinate sent a plainfit call to"ere Cil, Staline plate

that they wanted. to insine that neither dylics. Drea mor the Chaws

got... the ingussini... that the American were belind her rcarrest..

---

## Page 25

C. They state," of we eat the this anthontes to take

the rapist for the stile offin (Calle fum Headgwaites to the

D185374,

Welcer City Stälma, Nembee 18, 1963, CIA No. 464; Chrisbogy & Are Griteiline

Minenden 281963, enting no. 141, CIA.No. 658)

Ose Amerber 28, 1963, the Netican City Statin serit a cable

to the Duestr f the cantent bitellegence angery. stating the

hard rested m Nu: 27,1943, that Sylvia Decais anest pas galle.

noledge. in the Cuban Emberay. He also ugnted that M. Here 25,1963.

(ten Dean returned to has office. she permed quite, plead with her

although

perfomance..... She stated. that the Welcan police had thentined her pach

dudition to the Until thats, she had no fear f enfurthem.

(Calle fume Meter City Statem to the Deritis, Nivember 28, 1963, Nepi 1115,

CLA No 463; Chronology fOrese Fortgastuse, November 28,1963, integ no 15%,

One Anember. 28, 1963, the Merero Aty State sent a pable ho

he Director f the Centend Intellegence Agency stating that... The. peare.

sylea. Darcan on. the Gorcesment f Meteo's sitative without crusallo

the Meso City Stitem shoved a gest desire" fum: the Western

uthmntes.... the f pervice. The cable clar stated -phat -the merced

City Staton hal so atlanatove but to eifum Echerneria chet

---

## Page 26

O the setier ca, state auld male mo find request th

her. fintensed detention; that the decision must be the Hasica gricerse

so... (Cable fum. Net Cly. Statin to. Headguäiles, Nrember 28, 1963,.

Mex 7118, CIA No. 461, Chinergy f Anne Harkgastene, Norember 28,1963,

enter.. no. 156, CIA No. 662)

Om Nember 29,1963... Echevarica advisen. Chef f Statin,

Werstin Heath, that Sylvia Dueen had been pleased. at 7:00 pm

Misico.... aty tims on. Hivember 2% Echorassio farther stated. That

I Dian is sade ate suite and will be apsisheded

any time they reced infusesten to carrant it. Echemanic alar

stated that Alice Swan still appeared. to the Wedicase to have

bes imbed only in the business f staining Clam and Sireet

visa. fu Oswall (Celle fia Mesco city Headquates to Dienta,.

November 29,1963 Wes 7125, ClAN. 459; Chanely 8 Anne Hortpastras,

November 29,1963, entry ur 164, (IA No 663)

Ose Hivember 29,1963,. asted the Mosier Cty Stalem to Kep them.

infomed.on. the stetus.f.the.interrogatinio..@StenDucanAlradhUget

Cand iches implicited as early as persible. C'Calle Headgunster I.

Mexico Cit, Station, Mr 29,1963, DIR 856.72, CIA No. 457, Chinlogy f Crime

Forgesture, Unember 29, 1963, ethy no 170, CIA NO (6S)

---

## Page 27

On November 30,1963, dealine requested the mether ct,

Statin to slay inimediatil all the infinition they received to the.

7B.l. Jegal... Attache in Hepees. (Calle fum Headguatio to Medier

At Statimi, November 30,1963, DIR 85712, ClANs. 454;. Chenolagy 3 Aure....

Hoopasture, Anember 30,1963,- dotty 00. 174, CIANo. 665).

On December 12,1963, Headgaanters called Neper Cty Station strting

that the.. Federd Bureanf tavestigater was pushing to wend ug its

inalysis f nets aspects this case and ingently needs resuets. from. the

" sitergsten f slice. Dean and her husland doing ther second

acrest. Headquarters congesturel that Dean way not have bees entersagate..

it all during her second anest but that bless City should fired out

the farts and advise. ( Cable Headjuaters to Merco City Station, Dee: 12, 1963,

DIP 88642, CIA.NO.559; Chemology 8 Anne Hartfaster, Dee 14,1965, ente 0.25,....

CLA. No. 679)

On December 12,1963 Meter aty stater called the results f-the

send intercogatio a Slica Ducaw, to Healguanters... (Ses preveris... pertin,;

Cable fime Medicio Aty Statem to Director, December 12, 1963, Mexi 7364, CIA

(No. 559-8; Cheonology 8 Anne Sortedure, Dee 18,103, entry no. 252,

CIA No. 679).

One December 21, 1963, Hearses pelled Were's That then orsent plan

---

## Page 28

in parsing information to the Warren Commisuri Was to elimiate

sentin telephone tags in order the gustet their entering apertems.

I he Centeal Intellynce agency well rely instend on. Sylvia Duran's. stitements.

al..o. the danist Crisular files which the Iniets gane. the Stets department.

Helguarters stressed. that exact detached infireaton from

7.

n just phat... Ayles Decan and other pficiels sand. about Dawald's visit.

nd. his dealings toned be valuable and isable probatine crrdenee... (CIA Cable.

um. lendquaiters... to Meter City Stater, Dee 21,1963, DIR 90466, CLA.No-S49.; Chelogy

8 Anne Sortgestine, Dec: 21, 1963, entry no. 268, CIA No. 682)

One January 2,1924, Miper City Statin explane th Headgrates that

1t.

6... 9.

Kept that sylie t said that she WAS ofely willing

tied to the

mted.. states to enfront Oswall if necessary (Cable Nepico ity Statin -1

cadquarters,.. Ja inney 2,1964, Mexi 7115, CiNo. 545; Chronology 8 Arene Gertgastere

#January 3, 1964, inting so, 271, CIA NO, 682)...

On Agul 1, 1204, lead gunt called the Water ity Stalem that they wicked

alant them that these mambers. f Harron f the Warson Gminession Messed

Willers, Slawson, and Colemen, doll arive ithat publicity on trust

aids Apuls to donfer wich the leers City Staten alrit the envestegative

ister then. on the Oswell cas, Headquarters also statih-that the vert

---

## Page 29

juryo....toassure.themselves..almt.the investigations compliteners.

(Cable fadgante. to.. Nepico City Statini, Agul 7,196%, DIT12633,, CiA # 5.35;

Chrong fanne Gortguster, Goul 7,1963, entry no. 319, CIA. No. 624)

i.. On Agul 8, 194%, Hendgianters called the Hese City station - Mha?

the Warren Commissine Staffins want to down if the Wises greement has

7B→ integles and in givent want to kans of all the poisble steps were taker.

Nehquaters called that some f the highly touchy angust they will desses ace..

the they slimed ell he the Mistin Nice the made, where they

ahmed t to. Fach to Aglia Dueen in Helico at the Crisslite and whiche

the whenses will bet them gublish: what they did es the whole case. He inh

falst callel that the Vaven Cremenson stiffer bangut the citin ... tele.

oy he tis farte and that they may time quinced fome ther.

enseng. that they hal ghet prente and L

bute that they do not ten the dearls on the agency's arangenients

with the Means, Healuatens firther called that the chief-f Statem

shmll.... land thems all the neided aistalane with the minimum.

L grisible diator 6 area and technergies (Cable Headguriters, 7

the Peter. aly Station, April 8,1964, D. 1R 13026, CLA No. 533:, Chemilay

3 anne gate, Gil 3, 194 enty no 320, (1A:M 698)

---

## Page 30

On Aguel 111961 mete the. Warie Grenz plaffers requestid a

emplete witter rignt f the incerines telen and prestigations parte" by

the. Wefician authotes after the assass vatim. They firmised. that asy

Staten to Healguaitis, Agril 11,1967, Nesi 8984, CIA No. 528; Chemolo 6.

Qune Grotestre, @gul 14,1964, entegm 333, CIA N. 700)

One Her B, 24, the Meet aty Stalin called a Helie a.

( copy 8 the official Mont on Syles Duran?

reguest made to fuis Eateraria, Acting Wrist o Glension, bry the thee

staff member f. the Waien Corinn who parted Neger m Aju 1964.

AMMA: CIA CIA No Chunulagg Churlagg fanne Godfatene, Hey 70,1964 enty.

Mr 346, CIA No 205

discussing dyere Dues.....

handray. sample.ashed if.there.pasinfirmatinatailable.on.the. anent.

stetus... f hes parale, atttule and enot engloyment. Headquaders alor belies

C that the Waves Concriesion mught went Decan to verty that she

computed Orall's visa spliten gages. ( Catle Her guarters It Were

Cite, Station. Digtember 14, 1964, DISC 496(8 CLANs.6231 ChimP Arre

---

## Page 31

CArlistene, Set, 16, 196%, entry no. 320, CIA M. 109)

..Ose dept 16,1964, the Warren Commissin requested asy aubustentive

date. which cull he cel in a published regent as an authrutilere source

f the allegateria that Sylice Dean and hes herbend were or are

members f the Carment party, (Calle Headguarter to Meis Co,

Statin, Set 16, DiR DiR C1A N0 N0-622; Chenloy f Arena

Glistene, Best 16, 196%, entry no 371, CIAN. 799)

mesa applicatin, Headquasters also aabel frocher exampleso blant

for compariso aul jossill authentication ( Calla deadquarters to Medeer C

State, Sipt 18, 1969, DIR 50732, CIA No 621; Chaology f Qune Godfasture,.

Site 18,1944, entry no 372 CLANO 710).

On best, 19, 1944, Headguarter learned that Was Decan was no

longer in sister but that her hardbound, Hountin, hant Keet ig

pryment on pent, light bills, and scened to love as well as wer

The price f chen pee das unters (Cable Meter Cy Stelm t

Neatgrater, Sipt, 19,1564, Mere 0930, CANo 6195 Chirag Gree

---

## Page 32

Ore seglander 30; the Never City Statew learned that Sylves

Duan had bees on an excussion with sme tudents to bale Wayines

and Neila, (Celle Netico, Coy Stater to Deadgueles, October 5, 1964, He 1120,

CIA No 598; Cheonolags f Aune Mortgaler, 0t5, 1964, entry no. 393, CIA No 5.98,

---

