# 180-10146-10048

## Page 1

180-10146-10048

?.i.

RogelioRodrigues tip+s 201-332665

Memo for Record

From, Lawrence Fi Baster

Serday: Meeting / LITAMI9, 27 Dec63

"Litamil -9 reported n the recent

12 cable to ta's in vicio?

le importance in the AMROD

peratin (see MEXi 7613 and

MEXI 7625)

MEXI: 8982 EN 59445 11Agr164

To: DIR

1. Sugreg, Rogelis Rokeeng Engag,

ts me ? two tip pierits mei

larget

pitch.com

Res:

6/29/)

26a0eea in

"Joe"

0/40

780: 144100022

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

101468-10048

---

## Page 2

2

SA

has the oldes

tim: age d

21 yems old, 518"1

ale, herone

Gues, bend hair i a reddish

11112109

---

## Page 3

Target Personalit, Data 7ou

gened a Rogeles Kodiges, Lige,

Loose Docs/RR/

To: C/WHO DisputeR 19Hpr, /62

From; Cos/ Mali

Subj: Operational /hindecks relation-

Ship w/Demin Fernandez Concepein.

ak'Oswaldo, concerning

Justemalar gierill activites

at p6 unde COMMENTS

2.

"india he beancautiones to

deproach to and departe

depanteer

сна Kimb capel

route. De co Evella

will the

need trous precautio

11112110

and thas avened his Casi

6 fia that de is obsewing

---

## Page 4

SE

oind ahe hhe piver a detnele

danga to lhe operden od

azaiies

since Sutierrey , acendergt

tenlucro jenoen taa Diode9

eaopona bue n faili teno

13 ioeabe grip.t

→ The replezis

seciet thiough Lraonocate

w/ Kinluch Sinluck nice agei

haspomeied to otip aeeing

ts aad hao adoitter ite

JIheo relatenae

junctol alicthe elatere

11/12111

---

## Page 5

AMINH1RF20/209956

Euges Only

SteelEr named epiCat

subzelt: Capinon Allegatio

1. Sensitienty: Regardle

accurses, the,.

A. present a problem because g

their having been presentes

Its olde gout agencile;

3. In vice

so made critin

and cred have unparnable

repeatin rescale

The corpor

a hi apartente (colose cride -

pendent, previnis ihreas coe

". affect the reparation, and the

sennis gomprramnes.at

11110102

Action: In viens y the frein,

the alligatin

A. aimed he put in pesos par

11112112 Spectio ie not gunes becaus

ite potented entara coit

but enore in the list a

what we alread henan Calmet

000

one chen and get eid

melted 25

Contino Has did.

---

## Page 6

creamed of the AMLASt fing,

tended Tut it change -

alant Carle and " 7ita"

and

about AMWHiP, did Carrill

are messs.

B. shoes betinted son to protest

wo against any chan

and 20 as to establis th

at the rome that

Dato do a to sion 2 ret

to them one inpitance ther

C .

ept in minda.

vermeta to neus

meter (On The lait emereiten

recall the niplicen

tan public one pericadet

with all the pite available?

repart

on that are may

0) chan

202 Card

---

## Page 7

AMUDITIP):

2) arttnt coreis

peengati

meetet sen tndin le tae!

3) tide appingoriatt meduines,

ineliching interrrogation dod

pol,

are oe, we neee do is

iterminate itfose crto ame

wondi, srpit frua lent me

) tighton up our oun oplratim?

ma seunit, procodi n

mnection. c/heAMLASlauny

3: Prelisurnanz Analysin: leo prentes

uten a presisiirin ars

y tke iMML7SHt complap, madeis.

Mrcet 1965 uoRen S uas prepanis

nhavel to Madrid in Connäcten

w/uhe @BHOPS-l eaoe: "..Thre

is no amornting evidone that th.

group io vonkig enthe fan

Azcdel

Ca Repetoned t doee

1012114

En 19027cll Caotu, reportin

enreWhherGeesnht eGid

amanWo, iled ne

dinesis aoniepiigt

---

## Page 8

SE

to entit thin uppet

sun and the condit

in Cite Prosibly thigare

with the two end.

"Thetal.

Unving compens an here be

matter, raises tz Espera a

-3716 (IN 28634) 011

6 Apul65, QUSPORT-reporting

itte freen significant prito.

=) The group ives to be prepares

if the aperitin y

ail and the

112453 Ра дет отри

---

## Page 9

1532C02

reiter

problems empero.

and liasione. Ga codicatin

hensel repated prous as

you hack a

21962utat Cie

in There we Cannot nut

posabio pinocation

dangers game, not merey?

mentulit may

offa sever political repar

crosions at some and abroad

1112115 Us involvement made

dena Do the instant cane

Obvers hands

areth is a pinte

---

## Page 10

nit: Cndiitring the indioide?

wao are ind alver dereets, Ikein.

contacts uo/ KOBARK Ffice,

and thee reonted plan to

expose OpYOKE

opinis had Eilked to OD ENV

ind OPUREE

; althinghpntunatel,

dre dera a dis complaint co)

ithat KUBARK hedmitgrie

inguate suppn ti tete

B ..

Ohe cotict

eteo affecting the

o Maureen had

been the suget ganesche

a cable betieen!

ard Hias

11410107

169551 The annnging thin

i ctis emnectin

copinnes ho talhed alnt

11112117

T tO OPENY ODURGE aNM

e snie itt, ihesindened

abnt e an.it

colh abed

on cur emme

---

## Page 11

w/ort the Ennolle.y STockWs0D)

Esperisn did not iejont ang

criticion y The KOBÄRKERS at

Paris but it is evident thax,

vich. Uhatiomewang

meen fum lapinosaaboi

mattecn

Oparis is dis dlon

AMWHIP-I RNA UNSNAFU-19

bealin 1he90 on naede

Amwityr -1 arey mulun

mrenaboto 1a's

Lihiis

ha bee remning him aind

MADRIS WRich he las visited

ofter, Con the occasin,

2108

T hàn ot y ta n hn,

the whole gurys and speci

Hall abrit AMwHiRi and

ne enneitin L DOSNArUIT

11112118 At ooue ane two vrote porns,

ithe tennilere on the pa

OnsnAFund asmit KoBnckS

Comrertin lo/ AnioniPt ame

caing: +459100 dele

---

## Page 12

SECRA

хучму KUBARK ite penel

transactin..

polin alan has been to slag

ry the dittine tened the

C. Cutons, che

Colcan o the I

Imbaor 2 and 3 chae

and wanted diest contat, bat the

bahadration abant

seeing Me staten des

peratin

2912 00022

2916

An HALSAL

---

## Page 13

SE

heroelfis concerned, it it

be keptin mind Chartein

see it complains... beth

thentified he an QUSWIFT-T

and has reported that ie

if the Statin pis hat

4. Futta involvement g ESpIo

AMLAst-2 had telephoned

12180

thad succeeded in cottin

"ite pirpa pepal" iie, respo

are ROBARK reparatis

and to regat nitedo the re-

1a20 pulling arrangement

Not chicaster. 10

Pee bay press in font

---

## Page 14

him in the Amensit aperitin

His dealin

alas will do corees. Illnes

tim is planned. The ming hol

to determine crette he ha

cheer truthfad this rgoting

Hool # 5009509

COH/C/.SP

... ...i...

11112121

---

