‘[t80-10142-10408]

“en jas Re

Author
Cite Checked

Team Leader

pororemrererees tHe \ seery
Outline Section: y-B-2 Bek m
“Read Approved
Initial : Date Initial Date
oF Wabe

hae a

Rox _a¢

\

Billings Foe 4
Cornwell Ze - WE
Blakey roma i i
| NTO CIA we :
RETUR'!
Background Use Only Hey ALA a a
Do Not Reproduce itt ] THE
/
a . —_
7 THIS COPY 1S NOT
Form REP-

10142 -(0 08


Saini

6
6
4
4
4

‘prart - moc Cl sification: fll gly € eee.
11/14/78 —GPd, Dg NOT met? T g

evident to many Cubans that political parties were being

ams ria THE. wt

Betsy Palmer

is form is to be used for material extracted v
from ClA—controlled documents.)

MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO (MDC)

After Castro's assumption of power in 1959, it became

surpressed and the 26th of July Movement was being infil-

Za Ts Ga.

trated by Communists. This political atmosphere gave rise
to the creation of underground organizations such as the
Christian Democratic Movement of Cuba (MDC) oo Proclaiming

the doctrine of Christianity as its foundation, the MDC

published a manifesto in March, 19607 denouncing Communism
and strongly advocating the free enterprise system.? One
of the founders of the MDC, 35-year-old law professor,
Dr. Jose Ignacio Rasco, was elected head of the organization?
and immediately criticized the violence prevalant in the
Castro regimes This public criticism produced pressure on
him to leave Cuba and he arrived in Miami on April 22, 1960.
By June, Rasco had allied himself and the MDC with the Frente
Revolucionario Democratico (PRD)? and thus became one of the
five original exile.Cuban leaders brought together by the
State Department and the.CIA to form the nucleus of a Cuban
government~in-exile. ®

After the Bay of Pigs invasion, the MDC split into factions.‘
Rasco remained head of the largest faction and organized

delegations in Miami, New York, Chicago, Venezuela and cuba.?°

Classification:

=_ Ga.

| Classified by derivation:

Taka a aa a we .


,
4
4
6
4
f
§
6
4
4
6
6

pRAFT-MpC —-_ Classification:

Page 2

(This form is to be used for material extracted

The clandestine Bdcrsasit lyserien eens din Cuba was lead by Pepin
Fernandez Badue who used the alias “Lucas .1+ When Fernandez
arrived in the U.S. in October, 1961, he presented his
credentials to the Cuban Revolutionary Council, (CRC),
claiming he was the representative of the MDC movement in
Cuba. 2? Council president, Dr. Miro Cardona, accepted him
into the CRC hierarchy. 13 The “Lucas" faction remained with
the Council but its role was ineffectual because Fernandez
eventually failed to hold the group together.14

The "Rasco" faction of MDC had as its Military Chief an
independently wealthy young Cuban, Laureano Batista Falla.?>

Free-spirited and under no financial pressures, Batista Falla

organized and partially financed the infiltration attempts
16

underground groups in Cuba during the early 1960's.t?

From 1960-1962,1{ ]

= Es ry
“} He trained
=

at the

: : fae) :
prior to the April 1961 invasion : and made many trips from

this camp to

21

At that time, most underground groups worked together,
. . A 22 A
sharing supplies and information. However, the repressive
measures of the Castro regime after the April 1961 invasion

caused members of the Cuban underground to live in.fear of
Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

of the MDC. It was one ofthe most active and effective d

Ta aa wwe


DRAFT-MDC
11/14/78
Page 3

Classification:

(This form is to. be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.) 23
discovery and made inter+group liaison extremely risky.

Despite the inherent dangers, the underground movements of

the MDC and Movimento Revolucionario del Pueblo (MRP)
worked jointly for an all-out sabotage effort in the fall

24
of 1961.

aA “a GE

The "Batista" faction of the MDC (so named after the
youthful military chief rose to the position of president
in 1962)" entered into similar cooperative alliances with
other exile groups for the purposes of propaganda, sabotage
and supplying the Cuban’ underground. Many MDC members joined
the Cuba Committee in 1962 which was formed to counteract

the propaganda of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, a pro-

Castro organization in the u.s.7° The MDC and the Directorio
Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) worked together to formulate
plans for an underground organization to infiltrate Oriente
Province.-” The active operations between the MDC and other
anti-Castro groups peaked in the year 1963. One involved

the MDC, the Movimento Insurrecconial de Recupueracion

Revolutionaria (MIRR) and the Movimento Recuperacion

soldier of fortune, supplied information that Batista Falla,

Orlando Bosch Avila, Manuel Artime and Alexander Rorke were
: < . . . 28

jointly planning an air strike over Havana on April 25.

According to Sturgis, the strike was to originate from an

: 29
airstrip in © and the target was a sugar refinery.
> in Chee Stication: 9 if Y
ae pena were homemade, assembled by Batista. Rorke

|. Classified by derivation:

RR DBD Br A Fs Aa A FE

¢ Revolutionaria (MRR). In April, Frank Sturgis, Miami-based

Tama aa ew.


DRAFT-MDC

Bast Classification: ==

—This tory is to be used for material extracted
Gablicl anndumcéa“ebartrotikbdartbméte) had taken place as scheduled,

: 31
which took the other planners by surprise. Sturgis claimed

the strike was still in the planning stage and financial f
backing had not been Completed a This incident created a
stir and resulted in an intensive FBI investigation of Rorke's f
ee Since Radio Havana, contrary to usual policy, i
made no immediate protest over the Bane lh the FBI concluded
that Rorke's story was probably ae eGe and, according to
Sturgis, merely a publicity enue =e

In early June, 1963, the MDC -made a unity pact with
Commandos L in which the latter group was to provide training
and assistance in military intelligence and the MDC to provide
three small boats and a team of men to infiltrate cuba.?! The
MDC also made a-pact with Dr: Carlos Prio Socarras, former

President of Cuba who donated $50,000 to the group for military

Richard Rudolph Davis, a Cuban alien,?” had a preipheral
association with the MDC through his contact with Batista Falla
in the summer of 1963. This association was noted in Book V,
Final Report of the Senate Select Committee to Study Govern—
mental Operations.

Davis was residing in New Orleans and, although not an
MDC member, claimed to have once been a “coordinator” for the

41
group and the New York Police Department. He was a friend

Classification: ==

38
aid in return for its promise of political support. f

| Classified by derivation:


DRAFT-MDC

pegeEs Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
of Batista Farbiaciand: canatedcteeGmanisy because, he said, Batista

Falla was ina position to recommend men in the Miami area

42
who needed work. Davis’ claimed he could provide employment
for a small group of Cuban emigres. He said he had entered

into a business deal with geologist David L. Raggio and

i a, a a.

a wealthy, right-wing New Orleanian, Gus de LaBarre, forming
the Guatemalan Lumber and Mineral corporation. *? It was their
intention to train the Cubans on some land in Lacombe, Louisiana
to which De LaBarre had access through his nephew, Frank
de Laparre.“" After a necessary training period, the group
was to be sent to Guatemala to cut mahogany trees, he claimed.

A group of about 18 Cubans did arrive in New Orleans in
the summer of 1963. Leading them was a well-known Cuban
exile, Victor Paneque’> who used the military code name of

46
"Commadante Diego". Paneque was closely associated with

later fadmitted]to the FBI that the men had arrived dressed
48 c
in khakis and thought that they were to receive military
eee 49

training.

In the latter part of July, 1963, the FBI conducted a
raid on property near that of the “lumber company” training
camp. The Bureau seized a cache of dynamite and other ex-

50 : ?
plosives. This raid, according to Davis, unnerved his

oe)
trainees, and they elected to return to Miami.

Classification:

47
Batista Falla in the military activities of the MDC. Davis 6

aie
mere eo
| Classified by derivation:

Tae aa ae ae


4
g
4
4

N

DRAFT-MDC

page 6 Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
A somewhat Gifiemesled deamban.Jof this episode comes

from Gus de LaBarre's nephew and attorney, Frank de LaBarre,
who first related his story in 1966 to his former law school
classmate, Jim Garrison.”

De LaBarre said his "Uncle Gus" had introduced him to
Davis, whom De LaBarre described as a “floater.” They came to
see De LaBarre about drawing up articles of incorporation
for the Guatemalan Lumber Company and that is when he says
he learned of their plans to bring unemployed Cubans from
Miami to train as lumberjacks. Uncle Gus sent provisions to
the exiles on a daily basis and solicited money for food and
clothing from friends and ere ayese et

Although he suspected that military training was being
conducted at the camp, Frank: de LaBarre said he didn't pay
much attention to the activities of the group. _Hewever; When
he heard on his car radio that the FBI had seized a cache of
ammunition at a house in Lacombe! eae called his
uncle. Although receiving assurances that the lumber group
was not involved, De LaBarre called the officers of the
corporation together and insisted that the Cubans be taken
out of there. Davis, however, told him that the Cubans did

not want to leave, whereupon De LaBarre said he had to do

some real "brainstorming." He rented a Hertz ton-and-a-half

Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

A RAE BR Aaaiiaiwea Sa Si =z

Tl Daa Aaaaa am


DRAFT-MDC Classification:
Page 7

(This form is to be used for material extracted
truck aud infromudAéedcobtulied doountalsd it to the camp and teli

the Cubans “that the invasion is on." Davis complied, and

the Cubans loaded their gear, jumped in the truck and were

brought to the Greyhound bus terminal in New Orleans. Each

was given a one-way ticket to Miami plus a small amount of

—__ =. “GA

cash and told they would get their orders when they reached

guns bulging from under their clothes, they boarded the bus.

a a ee ee er er ee ae

é Miami. Looking as though ready for war, with knapsacks and
p That was the last,De LaBarre said, he saw of them.

The last he heard of Davis, he said, was in 1964 when
one of De LaBarre's friends reported he had gone into business
with Davis and was left with a lot of bills.>4

Other than providing the manpower for the training camp,

Batista Falla was not involved in this episode or was the

MDC as an organization.

Concurrent with his involvement with leaders of other
exile organizations, Batista Falla was dealing with foreign
governments in an effort to gain support for his faction of
the MDC. After the World Congress of Christian Democrats in

Democratic Party conferred with the MDC in Miami.°°

According
to one of the officials, the West Germans, after months of
study, had decided to help finance the MDC, not because they

were particularly fond of them, but felt once Cuba was liberated

Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

¢ Strasburg, France, two West German officials of the Christian


f

4
a
4
6
a

prart-mpe Classification:

Page 8
(This form is to be ‘used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)

the Cubans would have a. moral superiority over the rest of
Latin america.°®

Another offer of help came from Luis Somoza, former
President of Nicaragua, who provided the MDC a base for
operations in that country.>? Venezuelan President, Romulo
Betancourt, allegedly also offered to make a base available
for the MDC and provide it with personnel and supplies .°°
Recognizing that these Latin American bases of operation
were important to the MDC, Batista Falla nonetheless pre-
ferred to work out of the Miami area. Its proximity to
Cuba, good facilities for operating boats and the availability
of a large number of Cubans to serve as mechanics and do other
necessary labor made Miami more desirable than the Latin
American facilities.” The major drawback in Miami was the
presence of U.S. government officials determined to strictly
enforce the Neutrality Act and other Federal statutes.

U.S. Customs raided MDC headquarters in Miami on
April 21, 1964 and confiscated a large cache of arms and
Sanne Ea on Undeterred, the MDC simply relocated the
military section in separate headquarters, continued to store

materials for infiltration and attack missions against Cuba?

aie eee 2
and conducted study courses in military training and theory. °

In July, Batista Falla and Victor Paneque infiltrated men

Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

7 a ee ee

_— CR DB EE DB EB EE GE “GR

\

4


orarr-moc Classification:

Page 9 ‘
(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)
and equipment into Cuba.to form a nucleus of guerrilla bands-

who, once they got adequate arms and ammunition, planned to
63

go into the mountains of Cuba.

Tm SS

organizations -- finding it increasingly difficult to finance
infiltration and sabotage missions, and experiencing in-
creased surveillance by U.S. authorities determined to limit
their activities. The organization's activities gradually
declined, Batista Falla eventually gave up his anti-Castro
activities, moved to Washington, ‘D. Cc. and received a doctoral

64

degree in political science. In the spring of 1970, he

moved to Venezuela.

'] The MDC eventually suffered the fate of other anti-Castro

Classification:

a =. a a a G. 4. 8S. ~R

| Classified by derivation: _____

Daas Dia ai ew .

4
6
4
r


y

Classification:
FOOTNOTES
(This form is to be used for material extracted

MOVIMPENTCADEMOORHHAdceREGISDANO (MDC)

1. CIA/Deputy Director Operations, Movimiento Democrata
Cristiano (MDC) Volume 3, Objectives of MDC

2. ibid:

3. HSCA-+40095367—Etermt—ps Fy «FBI #105-87909-5, 1/30/61), Ten 6
4p. 2, CIF Document cog $34)

4. Ibid.

5. CIA/DDO, MDC Volume 3

6. HSCA-#909538, tem 4, p.2)) FBI #105-87090-5, 1/30/61,
neeoeeee “CSE DOCUMOBIT 009538) |
. La «

8. Give Us This Day by E. Howard.Hunt, Popular Library
Edition, pp. 43-44."

(a)
9. CIA/Domestic Contact Division document [fies Ignacio Rascof’
Information Report 00-K-3,233,366, 8/16

10. Ibid.
1l. qbid.
12. Ibid.
13. a fears Seleat Chea dee Orv Lenore

STAE
14. gen ‘Security File #092, ” senstuay Document, Volume 32,

Item 1, #97-4110-72

15. Ibid.

“16. HSereGOUSE3, FBI #97-4623-149, Section v, (atic DCU “sh 042 _
STPCE House Select Crem ithe on Assess nee reens

17. HS@m Security File #092,4 Senstudy Document, Volutie 37,
Item 4, #105-95461-15, p. 4

23 149, eae

18. HSCA=H869363, (5 a's)
_— OC Ne PN 04 2 \
19. CIA/Office of security, [[aureanc Operational
Approval form a
20. sca-$009363, (8. 4, FBI #97-4623-149, Section y “(SF .<

Daa
Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

", “@® @ B BZ EB SB GBB BBG

aaa aa


a SS ee DS DS DS BD DS S TS

Pootnotes - @RGssification:

Page .2
(This form is to be used for material extracted p
21. Ibid_ from ClA—controlled docyments. W tA) EE
TREE Mpetat detckt pap Qhhit ee PSEA 1,
22. BeeE security. File #092,” ‘Senstudy Document, Volume 37,
Item 4, #105-95461~-15, p. 4
23. Ibidyp. 2
24. Ibid,
25. HSCA #009303, € 8) Item 4,
26. CIA/DDO, MDC Volume 3, Cable to Director from IMWAVE, ~
#14986, 6/21/62 ww
os }
27. CIA/DDO, faureano Batista Falla, Information Cable TDCS
DB 3/6607090, 3/14/64
28. HSCA #009303,@p. 1, )FBI #9704623, Section 1M ) CaPK (
29. bia. DoCLMank? 009 3d 3)
30. Ibidp. 5 é
31. bid.
32. Ibid-
33. HSCA #009303, f 3) FBI #97-4623, Sections II
through VI, 4 CSR Document 009303).
34. Tbid.yp. 3, FBI #97-4622, Section IV
35. Ibid.p. 2, #97~4623-35
36. Ibid.yp. 2, Item 1 (9), FBI #97-4623 4
cm ’
37. CIA/DDO, MDC Volume 5, Information Cablq@ UFG-3536
9/3/63 als J
38. Ibid.
39. Hieldtoeatie Oe. Gre Document O1248 1)
“hy Trvtrhaatinn on Mike Assassivanom oF Presédent ohm ©. Kent Mf.
40. Book V, Final Report, Select Committee to Study Govern- 6

144 .
ae | Classified by derivation: = i

mental Operations with respect to Intelligence Activities,
United States Senate (SSCI). On page 12 of the SSCI, the
group of Cubans connected with the Guatemalan Lumber
Company project are identified as the same group arrested
when the FBI raided and seized dynamite on property in
Lacombe | @guifitation:<¢ should be noted that the FBI


’ E Classification:
Footnotes - MDC
P. :
bahia (This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
raid occurred on July 31, 1963 at property owned by
William J. McLaney, whereas the Guatemalan Lumber
Company trainees were on property owned, according to
Frank de la Barre, by a friend of his. Although
de la Barre did not mention the name of the owner,
the FBI Report from Miami, Bufile #2-1821 Section 33
lists the names of the Cubans arrested on McLaney
property and Victor Paneque was not among them.
(TFG, Dome
41.” BegRETeO12981 oe
g 42. Ibid, dl
pasion
43. Ibid,
44, Ibid : m
al aon beni
bk Paw
45. Ibid. Howe dit ie"
AEF.
46. HSex Security File #092, Senstudy Volume 32, Item 2,
#97-4110-123, p. 2
47. Ibid,
—_——
48. HSca-#006716, ©. 4,) FBI, Richard /Rudolph Davis, Volume 1
Report from New Orleans, 7/3/64 y stk Deut
: b7/
49. Ibidjp. 2 Oe
d 50. Zbid é
Seba:
52. NSCA #012982, Fonzi memo 9/6/78, (TFL Document 01248)
53. Ibid.
54. Ibid-
fms
55.  CIA/DDO, MDC Volume V, Information Cable UFG-4531,
1/29/64 — .
56. Ibid.
a 0g 3)
57. cxa/o00f [Faureano Batista Falla} Volume 1, Information
Report B-3-655,718, 7/26/63
g i Classification: = 6
| Classified by derivation: won



a> > o> O Oo & & & & OS & DP

Footnetes — Glas:

‘ation:

Page 4

58.

59.

60.
él.
62.
63.

64.

rans

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)O Sms
aaah tT Batista FallajfJVolume 1, Information
Cable TDCS-DB-3/658,177, 11/14
STAFE Hous SELECT Chinm TEE an ASA SSA BgeS,
HSCA-Security File #092 Senstudy Document 33, Item 1,
#97-4110-86, p. 13
Ibid, Volume 32, Item 2, #97-4110-123, p.1
Ibid.

Ibidy Volume 33, Item 2, #97-4110-132, p.2
Ipia,

HSCA #009303, tem 3,) FBI #97-4110-207, Report

from Miami, 1/28/70 ) CER Domed 009 303).

Classification:

Se (
=) Vl.

| Classified by derivation:

4D LF £9 I F 9 &F £7 £7

a BA AA AB BA BA BA BM BS BD
