180-10142-10051)

\D

Classification:

: (This form is to be used for material extracted [
i from ClA—controlled documents.)

a é
& CIA Personnel in lo Sats

The Committee investigated the allegation of former

cIA employee, James Wilcot who testified in executive
daguat® aS” : (

session that shortly after the assassination of President

Kennedy he was advised by fellow employees at (the. cats
5 NS : ‘

: neers
Station that bee-Hasvey Oswald was a CIA agent who

RUS DAE clive 3a

had received financial disbursements under an assigned

RUST,

eryptonym. Elicate explainea that he had been employed
7 Peer ¥
ee by the CIA as a finance officer from 1957 until his resignation

fxownbhe Agency in 1966. Inthis capacity, he served as a a
a prt od roed

THT,

~_
fiscal account assistant on the support staff at the
ast ¥22 Corin SIG 819 £

(Station from June Gf 1960 to June 1964. MLISStE aap tced
7 a

that,in addition to his regular responsibilities, he had

A —_—# .
f qehound
—Syaeed Security duty on his off-hours in order to supplement

ace tenn

his income. This additienal—jeb put him in contact with

_ ____ THIS COPY Is Nor
Classification: —FBR-RELEASE,

Classified 57 derivetion:

TE,

MET,

NUTT,

1 0642-10057


Classification:

+ (This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

other employees of the [Station who would come by the
Teas
office and engage in informal conversations, regarétng—

ies sare

Wibcett—tetd-—the-Committee—thas!on the day after President

Tost

Kennedy's assassination()

‘O ee WoO —
officer that bee-Harvey Oswald was = “A agent. 5

e was informed by a CIA case

- further testified that he was told that Oswald had been

(see aw)
assigned a cryptonym and that Wilcott himself had
He ; Fy { etaeeteeetene)
unknowingly disbursed payments for Oswaldt¢-project—using—

i tnoeiousogbintastarana iT pte

that cryptonym. Although Wilcott was unable’ to” dentify the

specific case officers who had initially informed him of

Oswald's Agency relationship, he named several employees

of the Station with whom he believed he had subsequently

discussed the allegations.
Wilcott advised the Committee that after learning

Classification:

Clossified by derivetion:

Sore,

comm,

sernee sn,



Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA——controlled documents.)

j | , )
: of the alleged Oswald connection to the CIA, ne (had) never f
| rechecked the Station disbursement records for f
evidence of the Oswald project. He explained that this was
) because at that time he viewed the information as mere shop [
i talk and gave it little credence. Neither did he report

the allegations to any formal investigative bodies, fobbowing— ‘

eaten é
the-eesessinetton as he considered the information to be hearsay. E
b

In an attempt to investigate Wilcott's allegations ,

cuss
co p-wi-eh—the-GIA, the

aereereneey

Committee interviewed several present and former CIA

employees who were selected on the basis of the position each

: nen
had held with-the-GEA during the years 1954-1964. Among

those persons interviewed were individuals whose responsibilities

covered a broad spectrum of areas within the Station ,
f
dusing this-period, including the chief and deputy chief of i
Classification:

i Classified by derivation:

Do Se



.Sooeeren

ae Classification:
: (This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
‘station as well as officers.in finance, registry, the Soviet

Branch and counterintelligence. __/ Phe-Commrttests.

investigebion—refuted.Wileottis-~abbegatiom.

During the course of their employment in the

Station, none of these individuals interviewed had ever seen

any documents. or heard any information indicating that Lee.
re
Harvey Oswald was -a- agent. _/ This allegation was not

2 CA Une eR RuBwo Racine aQ 2s
known to ee

Commission critttealdite: = +son~investigation—
ieee et .
Can the late 1960's. / Some of the individuals, including

the chief of counterintelligence within the Soviet Russia

Branch in expressed the belief that it was possible

Sov
cy that beestievey Oswald had been recruited by the\KGB

during his military tour of duty in Japan, as the CIA's

Station had identified a KGB program aimed.at recruiting

Classification:

sified by derivation:

ye



ay sett Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted a
frorn ClA—controlled documents.)

—_

U.S. military personnel in Tokydé during the period that

Oswald was stationed there... An intelligence andlyst whom

Wilcott had specifically named as having been involvedgy

i
, ee RY f
folloving—the-assessimationgy ina Sees age
H ecesteereeceen :
the Oswald+-6it-agent allegation told the Committee that he : ,
| was not in the Station at that time. A review of this
if
individual's Office of Personnel file confirmed that, in [

fact, he had been transferred from the| Station to the (

United States in 1962.

The chief of the Station from 1961-1965 stated

wis [fate

that, had Oswald been used by the Agency within Eater

seme Swarm,

jurisdiction, Greg certainly would have known about it.

cy Similarly, almost all those persons interviewed who worked

f
b

in the Soviet Russia branch of that station indicated that
they would have known if LeeHarvey Oswald had, in fact,

Classification:

Classified by derivation:



oo
ze bee-Hervey Oswald's CIA File ¢ CAod

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—centrolled documents.)

— :
been recruited CIA agent when he was in Japan. ~ /

These persons expressed the opinion that, had Oswald been

SS

recruited without their knowledge, it would have been a rare

exception contrary to the working policy and guidelines of

the Ptations Q GI Qe 8's ike) 2
weed naa toed ag oR Spas é

ce en individodl,

The CIA has long acknowledged that, prior to the

cone fa about acweld/ Q a7

President's assassination, it had a personality file on
had is, a Pile vbest contain’: Rg
LecwHasvey Oswala) This file, which in Agency a

RIN

is referred to as a 201 file, was opened on December 9,. 1960.

ce ccc ;
The Agency has explained te—the-Committee that 201 files are

STS SORTA,

opened when a person is considered to be of potential

intelligence or counterintelligence significance. The

or

opening of such a file is designed to. serve the purpose of

L
bringing all of the CIA's information pertaining to that P

Classification:

eons,

| Classified by derivation:



Classification:

QteA CO (This form is to be used for material extracted
iS from ClA—controlled documents.)

been recruited as a CIA agent when he was in Japan. — /
These persons expressed the opinion that had Oswald been
recruited without their knowledge, it would have been a rare

exception contrary to the working policy and guidelines of

the Station.

Va S >
ie, Lee Harvey Oswald's CIA File Sis

The CIA has long acknowledged that, prior to the

President's assassination, it had a personality file on

Lee Harvey Oswald. This file, which in Agency terminology
is referred to as a 201 file, was opened on December 9, 1960.
The Agency has explained to the Committee that 201 files are
opened when a person is na to be of potential
intelligence or counterintelligence significance. The
opening of such a file is designed to serve the purpose of

pringing all of the ra€S) information pertaining to that

fat certen : :
Cont J Clas:Hication:

Classified by derivation:

“HEA SORA,

WA

STA,

yy,

‘


ne Abii La oll Taal mony el oman dl

Classification:

(This form is to be used for, material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

we.

or indirectly, in any capacity for the CIA after his-

resignation on 26 September 1950."
Seen
The Committee not regard this explanation as
satisfactory, especially since Snyder's 201 file indicates that

for approximately one year during 1956-1957 he was used by an

Agency case officer as a spotter at Harvard University, because

of his access to other students who might be going to the

i Soviet uniong nor was the Agency actually able to explain

specifically why someone considered it necessary to red
flag the Snyder file.
The remainder of the Snyder file, however, is entirely

consistent with his testimony before the Committee concerning

the absence of Agency contacts. In addition, the CIA

personnel officer who handled Snyder's case in 1950 confirmed

that Snyder had, in fact, terminated his employment with the

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

