# 180-10142-10081

## Page 1

180-10142-10081

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE. "

CIA HAS

RELEAS

As

When

the Central Intelligence Agency forwarded

to the Warren Commission a copy of Duran's signed state-

ment. It read as follows:

i. she remembered... (that Lee Harvey Oswald)

was the name of

an American

who had come

to the Cuban Consulate

to obtain a visa to

travel to Cuba in transit to Russia, the

latter part of September or the early part of

October of this year, and in support of his

application had shown his passport,

in which

it was noted that he had lived in that country

for a period of three years; h's labor card

from the same country written in the Russian

language;

and letters in that same language.

He had presented evidence that he was married

to a Russian

woman, and

also that he was ap-

parently the leader of an organization in the

city

of New Orleans called

"Fair ***(Play) for

Cuba," claiming that he should be accepted

a

as

"friend" of the Cuban Revolution.

According-

ly, the declarant, complying with her duties,

took down all of the information and completed

the appropriate application

form;

and the

declarant,

admittedly exceeding her

responsi-

bilities,

informally telephoned

the Russian

con-

sulate, with the intention

of doing

what she

could to facilitate issuance of the

Russia visa

to Lee Harvey Oswald.

However,

they

told her

that there would be a delay of

about four months

in processing

the case, which annoyed the appli-

cant since,

according

to his statement, he was

in a great hurry to obtain visas that would

enable him to travel to Russia, insisting on

his right to do so in view of his background

and his loyalty and his activities in behalf of

the Cuban movement.

The declarant was unable

to recall accurately whether or not the appli-

cant told her he was a member of

the Communist

Party, but he did say that his wife***was

then

in New York City, and would follow him, ***

(Senora Duran stated) that when Oswald under-

stood that it was not possible to give him a.

Cuban visa without his first having obtained

the Russian visa, ***he became very excited or

Fillu 5 #3

STO

AND/OF

JOCUMENT

tel

142-10081

---

## Page 2

202

angry,

and

accordingly, the affiant called

consul Ascue (sic),***

(who)

came. out and

began

a heated discussion in English with

Oswald, that concluded by Ascue telling him

that

give him the visa,

"if it were up to him, he would not

and "a person of his

type

was harming

the Cuban Revolution rather

than helping

it," it being understood that

in their

the Russian

conversation they were talking about

Socialist Revolution and not the

Cuban.

sons

Oswald maintained that he had two rea-

for requesting that his visa be issued

promptly, and

they were:

one, that his tourist

permit in Mexico was about to expire;

and

the other, that he had to get to Russia as

quickly as possible.

the declarant

Despite her annoyance,

she put down her name,

gave Oswald a paper***in which

"Silvia Duran," and

the number of the telephone at the consulate,

which is

"11-28-47" and the visa application

was processed anyway.

It was sent to the

Ministry of (Foreign) Relations of Cuba;

from

which a routine reply was received

some

fif-

teen to thirty days later, approving the visa,

but on the condition that the Russian visa

be obtained first, although she does not re-

call whether or not Oswald leter telephoned

her at the Consulate number that she

him.

gave

The Central Intelligence Agency had relied on

Duran's statements but had delted Duran's description

706

of Oswald as blonde and short.

It had also

excised Duran's statement, "The only aid she could give

Oswald was advising that he see the Soviet Consul,

calling the person in charge of that office" which

alluded to Oswald asking for some type of aid at the

8. 7=7:

Cuban Consulate. 4s

That

Had the statements been included, the warren commiss

Conclusions would not have seamed as strong. godet

---

## Page 3

The Warren Commission Staff was not completely

satisified with Ms. Duran's ten page signed statement

obtained by the Mexican authorities.

W. David

Slawson

wrote:

We then discussed ... the problem of (inter-

viewing)

Silvia Duran.

We

pointed out

that

our only

interest in witnesses

(in Mexico)

other than Duran

was

to get their formal testi

mony for authentication purposes.... This was

not true of Duran, however, because she had

been interviewed only by the Mexican police

and we considered that interview inadequate.

(I should point out that

we do not consider

it totally inadequate, however.

It is only

on details such as Oswald's physical appearance,

side comments or remarks he may have made, etc.,

that we would like to interrogate Mrs. Duran

further.

On the

essential point of whether

or not his contacts with the Embassy consisted

of anything other than an attempt to travel

to Cuban,

been exhausted. Purar

l's knowledge has probabl

(Memorandum for the p

Who Dete Showson, 1722/61, per 3940. Dast parenthetical

in the eriginel.) The Warren Commission staff's attempts

to interview Ms. Duran never succeeded.

(semorandum far

the record se prip to varioo Gity, from i. David Slawson,

1/22/64) Ms. Duran was not interviewed by Americans

until 1976, when two reporters from the Washington Post

710

interviewed her.

-7.): On June 6, 1978, representatives

Ee use Select committee on Assassinations inter-

viewed Ms. Duran in Mexico City.

---

## Page 4

VI. Information not available at the time of the

Warren Conmission INVESFIGATION

Silvia biRAdO (NES DUPAN)

House Select Committee on Assassinations 6/6/78

Interview of Silvia Tirado

Ms. Tirado Muran divorced Horatio Duran in 1968)

was never questioned by American officials in 1963.

Thus,

the Committee established contact with the Mexican go-

vernment and requested that the Mexican

Sil government make

Silvia Triado available for an interview.

fetter HSCA

JFK DOC.

The Mexican government complied on 6/6/78. Ms. Tirado

told the House Select Committee on Assassinations the

following:

Lee Harvey Oswald visited the Cuban Con-

sulate thrée times on September 27, 1963, not

IN,

twice

as the Warren Commission previously re-

ported.

N

swald first visited the

Cuban Consulate at approximately 11:00 a.m.!

requesting an intransit

His'isa to Cuba with Russia

as the final destination.

-He

showed her some documents, then, left to ob-

tain photographs needed for his application.

по 1 4.

00 533-526)

---

## Page 5

NDENY

No

Oswald returned at approximately 1:00

715

p.m. with four photographs.

Ms. Tirado typed the application in dupli-

cate, stapled a

picture on top of each and

x786

had Oswald sign each in

her presence. "Ibi

0. 527 84) As identification, Oswald

showed

her documents he had brought: his

Russian

labor card, marriage certificate with the

name of his Russian wife, his American Com-

munist Party membership card and his "Fair

Play fox Cuba" membership card. (T00, p. 522)

Ms. Tirado found Lee Harvey Oswald's be-

havior suspicious because normally a Communist

traveled only with his

passport as belonging

to the Communist Party was illegal in Mexico

× 718

'In 1963. (sid, p, 533m)

There was a procedure whereby the American

Communist Party would arrange visa matters

for

their members with the Cuban Communist Party. X

HIbid: p: 532533.) The American would then

come to Mexico, visit the Cuban Consulate,: and

receive his visa imediately, (ot, anai

When Tirado asked Oswald why he did not have

the American Communist Party arrange his trip

to Cuba, he stated that he had not had the time

721-

Ibid, a 532.)

---

## Page 6

After explaining to Oswald that he had

to

a.c-

quire

a Russian visa before he could receive a Cuban

visa, Tirado jotted

her name and business phone number

to get his Rus an an eare to one lo then iest

cer his kussian ve

Oswald returned to the Cuban Consulate between

3008, 120:00 € 2:00 p.m. was a to not no guard

5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.mi23

called Tirado, stating that someone who did not speak

Spanish was at the gate inquiring about a

visa. fIbid,

= 5134) As routine procedure, she,

asked the guard

to escort the individual to her office.

T010., p 64)

716+

Oswald told her that he had acquired a Russian visa.

(Ibictor sth.) Since he did not produce it when asked,

she called the russian consulate (abid., e 9rs:) The

Consul told Duran that Oswald had been to the Consulate

requesting a visa and had been told that the reply would

take approximately four months.* (bit,

she relayed the message to Oswald, he got very excited,

insisting that as a person who had been in jail because

229

of the Cuban Revolution he should receive a visa. tIbie

546.T Oswald stated that he could not wait that long

because his Mexican visa expired in three days. fibie,

416) At this point, Ms. Tirado informed Consulfe

---

## Page 7

CIA HAS NO ORJESTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/GR

-206-

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

Eusebio Azcue of the situation # 731

(bid., p: 546.)

Azcue had been in his private office which he shared

738

with his upcoming replacement, Alfredo Mirabal.

(sbinet.,

F=) Azcue politely explained the requisites for an

intransit visa to Oswald.

he noticed that Oswald was a stubborn man he told Os-

wald that he was obviously not a friend of the Cuban

revolutiong because he would otherwise understand that

Cuba had to be extremely careful with the people it al-

lowed in the country.

Is, #bic, 1, 554) Arcue and Oswald

yelled at each other.

(Fb1d., P. 35t.) Then Azcue went

to the door, opened it and asked Oswald to leave.

tIbia,

2, 554.) Oswald did not revisit of telephone the consu-

17ot0., D. 557) Ms. Tirado described lee Harvey

Oswald as approximately five feet six, wit FARsE

weighing about 125 pounds. dud with vers

2. CIA information not available at the time of

the Warren Commission investigation.

a.[LIRING/3 allegation.

In 1967 a report that Silvia duran had had

intimate relations with Lee Harvey Oswald came to the

attention of the Central Intelligence Agency's Mexico

City Station, Yete a fiestare or sontonnectry with

[TRENG/3,/May 26, 29674) The source, [LIRING/3, to sousee

entremely reliable) stated that he had recently?

---

## Page 8

-207-

received a call from Silvia Duran.

A telephone tap on

[LIRING/3'" Itelephone confirmed that the eat had been?

(It) [LIRING/3 reported that he had visited

Silvia to renew acquaintances.

142 #ticd.) During the visit,

at the Cuban Consulate when he

applied

for a visa and

743

had dated him on several occasions.

(Jint:) Duran

admitted that she had intimate relations with Oswald,

but insisted that she had no idea of his plans.

In addition, Duran told (LIRING/3 that when the news of

the assassination became public knowledge, the Mexican

government arrested her and during the interrogation

beat her until she admitted that she had had

+ 746

with Lee Harvey Oswald.

(#bit.) [Rowton (EIRING/345

case officer's pseutonym) counseled LIRING/3 against

any further contact with Duran because the Cubans or

the Mexican police might become suspicious of him* 747

(statt.) There is no indication in Rowton's report as

to why contact with Silvia Duran would make

the Mexican

police suspicious (of the agent.) The report also notes

that Ms. Duran says that she has not had contact with

748 # (7010.)

the Cubans since the time of the assassination./ There

is no indication in the report as to why(LIRING/3's ]

contact with Duran would make the Cubans suspicious.

The CIA Mexico City Station reported this information

to Headquarters:

First that Silvia Duran had sexual intercourse

---

## Page 9

-208=

itis

with Lee Harvey Oswald on several occasions

when the latter was in Mexico is probably

new, but adds little to the Oswald case.

Second the Mexican police did not report

the extent of the Duran-Oswald relationship

to this Station. # 849

ts 92245, 5127167.11 this was not the first report

of such a relationship between Oswald and Duran. Elena

Garrotreported the same information to Charles Thomas

10 #751

in 1965. (Soa

In

sex chronology of the Mexico City investigation of Oswald

ThE

Any conditi sates: "Why didn't

Mexi police give us

all info?"

(Wx 7241, ent

That

the Mexican government did not disclose all the

AMErICAN AUthOrItIEs

information in (their possession to the Central Intelligene

raises one of two possibilities:

1) the Mexican government did not want to disclose that

one

their citizens had had intimate relations with

the

assassin of John Kennedy; or

2) Silvia

Duran was a Mexican penetration agent in the

Cuban Consulate and the Mexican government was protecting

-theirinformant by minimizing her relationship with.

Oswald.

3) or they forgot t

b. The possibility that Silvia Duran was an

agent for either American, Mexican or Cuban

Intelligence.

Since the publication of the Warren Commission

Report in September 1964, critics.

have

written

about

the possibility that

Silvia Duran was an intelligence

---

## Page 10

- 209-

agento for either the Americans, Mexicans or Cubans.

(1)

was Silvia Duran an agent

American intelligencese?

In an effort to resolve this question, the House

select Connittee Never thie united states investigative

752 pe

agencies' files on Silvia Duran.

The Committee found

no evidence in this file review that Silvia Duran was

either an American or Mexican intelligence agent.

In addition, the Committee has interviewed most

of the Mexico City Station employees about thei

possibility.

Only David Phillips, Chief of Covert Action and the

Cuban Section in the Mexico City Station in 1963,

a pasitio

consi

dered that Duran was possibly an agenter source.

Phillips

stated that "at one time the agency pitched almost

everyone at the Cuban Embassy. "'

(Phrithips enterview,

2/3/76, 8. "Pitchoi"

dasianate an

atto

tneinidual.)

Mr.

Phillips stated that he had first heard End Duran's

name from the telephone intercept transcripts.

75. * stain)

But Mr. Phillips asserted that the CIA had no interest

in Ms

ISi Duran because "She wasn't friendly with anyone."

(Ibid.)

Mr. Phillips had previously mentioned the CIA

Mexico City Station's interest in recruiting a former

Cuban Ambassador to Mexico named LEchuga.

Mr. Phillips

was

shown a memorandum written by W. David Slawson of

the Warren Commission Staff regarding his trip to Mexico,

GY WARREN

commission

S+AFF

MEMBERS

---

## Page 11

-210-

which said:

Mr. Scott! Chief of the CIA Station in Mexico

City) narrative disclosed that the CIA's action

immediately after

the assassination consisted

basically of alerting all its confidential

sources of information throughout Mexico to

immediately channel all information into

their headquarters, and

of compiling as

complete dossiers as possible

on Oswlad and

everyone else throughout Mexico who at that

time

the

CIA knew

had had

some contact with

Oswald... This meant especially Silvia Duran,

who because she had previously been having an

affair with lechuga,

the former Cuban Ambassador

to Mexico and presently the Cuban representative

at the United Nations, had previously been of

substantial interest to the CIA.... $ 758

(Hemesandm for the Recuru re trip telexieo dity from

We Davit STaWSOll, 4122705, PP. 28 23r emphasis aaded.)

Mr. Phillips. was surprised by this and

stated that

"No one let me in on this operation."

Thillips

/gE) But Mr. Phillips added

that

he doubted that Duran would have been

pitched because

the Station could not identify any of her weaknesses.

The Committee staff members then told Mr. Phillips

"Ot the Station's penetration agents,

about no tout need to for is re roone an e

EITAMIL/9, Jat the

the cuban Embassy. At one point furIAMI/9 had repgrted

to his case officer that all that would have to be

done to recruit Ms. Duran

Was to get a blonde, blue-

eyed American in bed with her.

With this, Mr. Phillips said that it did indeed sound as

i¡[the Station had targeted Ms. Duran for recruitment,

that the Station's interest had been substantial, and that?

---

## Page 12

N

-211-

the weaknesses and means had been identified.

Thittips

17 8/3/78, pa) Mr. Phillips pointed

out,

however, that because Duran had been targeted

did not

necessarily mean that she had been pitched.

In addition, he stated that he had never heard that

Duran had been pitched.

Mr. Phillips did state that

he would expect that

Ms. Duran's file at the CIA would be "very thick" because

of all the telephone intercepts that concerned her and

the substantial interest that the Station had in her

ftbiet.) He stated that much of the material in her file

should predate the assassination.

10h * (Ebito) Mx. Phillips

stated that he would be very surprised if Ms. Duran's

201 file was

small and contained only a few pre-assassi-

nation documents:

(s.1)

This is in fact the case of the

768

Headquarters 201 file.

foite sunmaty.) This Committee

has asked the CIA to make Ms. Duran's Mexican "p"

(person-

ality) file available for review. The CIA informed the

Committee that there was no "p" file available on Ms.

110

Duran.

An explanation of why there is no availbale"

Ecomither citeron

(Acle 017 response wiren veget t)

Another CIA employee,

who worked on

an "Oswald Task Force" in late September or early October

of 1975 dealing with Freedom of Information act law

Tuits brought against the agency concerning the files

on Lee Harvey Oswald, stated that he believed that Ms. DURAN

---

## Page 13

-212-

may have been a source of information for either (the

CIA Or the Mexicans." Mr.

could not recall

why he specifically had this recollection, but thought

that it was due to something he had seen

in Oswald's

file.

He said that it may have been the Agency's

attempts to protect Ms. Duran after the assassination

and the heavy cable traffic that those attempts genera-

ted that led him to his inference that she was a source

of information for either]the Agency or the Mexicans.'

Despite (LIRING/3'5 peing verned off Ms. Duran for

bie case officer,] Mr. Phillips statements, and Mr.

hazy recollections, the Committee can not

definitely resolve whether Silvia Duran was a Mexican

or American intelligence agent or source.

(2) was Silvia Duran a Cuban intelligence

agent?

In an effort to resolve this question, the HSCA

reviewed the

Musted states investigative agencies' files

on Silvia Duran.

The Committee found

no evidence in the

files that would indicate that Ms. Duran

was

associated

with Cuban intelligence.

In addition, the HSCA interviewed most of the

Mexico City Station employees

about the possiblity that

Duran worked for Cuban intelligence. Only Barney Hidalgo,

a CIA officer who travelled to Mexico City in 1963,

considered the possibility to be likely.

Mr. Hidalgo,

---

## Page 14

-213-

not professing to remember all the details, stated that

he thought that Duran was a Cuban intelligence agent. *

719/30/70, 5746) Hidalgo said:

At

the time when this contact told me

of Silvia Duran I tied the two together,

yes, sir.

I don't know, how at that time

it was obvious to me as an

intelligence

agent that there was some connection there

but it was of no interest whatsoever to me,

I do remember that when I next saw this

contact of mine I mentioned the fact to

him and let

wanted to.

shim proceed to do whatever he

(Ibid.) Mr.

Hidalgo further stated that he never resolved

the issue.

With no corroborating evidence for Mr. Hidalgo's

memory, the Committee must conclude that Silvia Duran

was probably never employed by Cuban intelligence.

B. The Cubans. .!.

1. Eusebio Azcue Lopez.

¿When Lee Harvey Oswald allegedly visited

the Cuban

Consulate, Eusebio Azcue Lopez, a Cuban Kitbizen, was

879#

the Cuban Consul. Because he had

diplomatic immunity,,

the Cuban government had never been asked to make him

available for questioning.

---

## Page 15

-213-

not/professing to remember all the details, stated that

he thought that Duran was a Cuban intelligence agent.*

yl(20178,1176) Hidalgo said:

At the time when this contact told me

of Silvia Duran I tied the two together,

I don't know, how at that time

it was obvious to me as an intelligence

there was some connection there

but it was of no interest whatsoever to me,

I do remember that when I next saw this

contact of mine I mentioned the fact to

him and let

wanted to.

i'm proceed to do whatever he

(Ibid.) Mr. Hidalgo further stated that he never resolved

778

the issue.

With no corroborating evidence for Mr. Hidalgo's

memory, the Committee must conclude that Silvia Duran

was probably never employed by Cuban intelligence.

B. The Cubans.

1. Eusebio Azcue Lopez.

•When Lee Harvey Oswald allegedly visited the Cuban

Consulate, Eusebio Azcue lopez, a Cuban kitbizen, was

77901

the Cuban Consul.

Because he had diplomatic immunity,

the Cuban government had never been asked to make him

available for questioning." literesaneted rom Monitoreo

---

## Page 16

219,

- 20-

CIA HAS NO OSIEGTION 7O

LEOLASGICCATOS AND/OR

RELEASE OF TIS DOGUMENT

AS SANITIZED

The Americans remained together the entire evening

and did not dance. When Elena tried to speak with the

Americans, she was "shifted" to another room by one of

x.808

her cousins. (Foid.) The memo does not state whether

Elena had mentioned which cousin had not allowed her

to speak to the Americans.D

One of Elena's cousins

told her at the time that (he or shel did not know

who the Americans were except that Silvia Duran (an

employee of the Cuban Embassy and the wife of Horatio

Duran), had brought them to the party.

The day after the party, Elena and Deba saw the

three Americans on the Insurgentes, a main avenue in

Mexico City. (Ibid.) The Garros claimed that they had

recognized Oswald's photograph when it was published

after the assassination. (Ibid:) Silvia Duran's ar-

rest "underlined the Garros' certainty" that the man had

been Lee Harvey Oswald. (Ibid.)

The source of the memo

was fa witting central ter

telligence Agency asset known by the cryptonym

Onom the conmittee identified as June cobb sharp while

RIVIEWING

receivin

file. According to Elena, Ms.

Cobb was sent to her house

shortly after the assassina-

tion for a few days, by a mutual friend, a Costa Rican

814

writer named Eunice Odio. (

---

## Page 17

220

-127 -

Tall) Ms. Garro asserted

that while at her house, Ms. Cobb expressed interest

8615

in the Kennedy assassination. (Foist) One night Elena's

sister Deba, who was visiting, got drunk and told the .

whole story. (Ivis,) Claiming to be a CIA agent, Cobb

suggested that Elena and Deba go to Texas to tell their

story. (Uei.) Elena stated that when Cobb's suggestion

was rejected, Cobb stated that she would arrange a meet-

818x

ing with the CIA Station Chief. Twinston scott wao the

Mexico trey statione

10(1) The meeting did not

occur because Ms. Cobb was asked to leave the Garro

819

house evidently because she kicked Elena's

NON4580-583; 427241 Entry 44271 6442eIA1919)

A

notation on the memo says that

never

xegained contact with Elena Garro de Paz. 4w+7247, lA,

Entry $430, OTA 4721 Bline Merro dated 1045/64, CIA

The

memo was not inserted in either the

Elena Garro or Lee Harvey Oswald

821

CÁP (personality) filege.

but in a local leftist and Cuban project file. The Com

mittee learned about the memo from Wx-7241, a chronolo-

gical history of the Oswald case prepared by Payood.

pasture for the CIA in 197G.) The memo was found in De-

1965g

V(G

447x7347

Watson, Eound

A marginal notation on Wx7241

---

## Page 18

2z1

- 22-

823

says, "Why was this not sent to Headquarters?" (p. 87,

CIA #714.) The Committee has been able to determine

that the memo was forwarded to headquarters shortly

thereafter.

2, October 12, 1964 CIA Memo for the Record

CIA MEXICO CITy StATION'S

on October 12, 1964 theVChief of Covert Action,

wrote a memo for the record reporting

hER

that Elena Garro de Paz had told the story to Eunice

824

Odio. The Committee has not been able to determine

if Elena Garro told Ms. Odio the story personally or

1f Ms. Cobb related to Ms. Odio what Frena trau todd

who relayed it to

—Henry

Mr. dol

fu

mare

After the He has not been able

-Odio

11506,

or Ms

9/04. L

04. )

The story is not as detailed as the 10/5/64 ver-

sion.

There is no mention of Deba Garro Guerrero Gal-

The story, perhaps because it is third hand, dif-

It states that

ters from the previous story in two areas: V

AS oppOSEOtO

AND that

was at the Cuban Embassy, sot-at Ruben Duran's;

Elena

talked to a cuban Embassy official letteRe of her

---

## Page 19

3.

zzz

- 23-

cousins about the three Americans.

Attached to the memo was a note from

to

the Chief of Station, Winston Scott, which read, "Do

you want me to send the gist of this to Headquarters?"

Scott then noted that the memo should be filed.

The

file indications show that the memo went into the Oswald

"p" file and the Elena Garro "p" file. (Ibid.)

November 24, 1964 CIA Informant Report

On November 24, 1964 a Central Intelligence Agency

TEEN 82%

Informant (the ouse enters been arable to

retermine the tator

melts saenutty since tris name does

not appear In any elA files) reported information tremo

Frau Winston seatt to the files re done Call MYseA,

692

i 72A128, Enta 4401, GItt715)

derived from

AN ASSET,

Unite reviewing

file the Committee determined that the GIA aoset's true

name

savino "grena chaims that the day fol-

Lewing John

T. Kennedy'S assassination Calmihla escorted

er and her deurgister to the vermont Motel for protection;

Doè 2150 December 25, 1985, thomas mena fox nore informa-

The informent asserted that

June Cobb was an

"American Communist" who rented a room

from Elena Garro.

831

(item

---

## Page 20

223

-24-

Mere Cobby 4425161,014 N05 598

IA Nor 715.) The stormentalso

medy when

Stu

he W

1eo beca

Rouse.

Thirts) In addition, the informant. claimed that Elena had

also told her story to an American official at the

Embassy, who claimed to represent the Warren Commission 832

(Ibian)

The Chief of Station noted that he had asked

833

to pursue the story

(Tlie.) but there is no

chickefstatter

followed there-at

indication thatthe ever complied with

request.

@lassified CIA, Doerments.)

GARRO

4. November 24, 1964 Elena Meeting with Mexico City Legal

Attache Dfficers

Elena and her daughter Elso told their story to

@'NOVIMBER 24,1964.835

the Mexico City Legal Attache. (The Legal Attache in

1964 was clark Anderson.) They recounted, the same story

previously given to June Cobb Sharpic

The date of the

party

ren as September 30, October 1 or October 2,

1837

(EBT 1053025554

say oswald, pel.) The agent who wrote the

report (

noted that Lee Harvey

Oswald could not have been identical with the American

allegedly observed by Mrs. Paz at the party if this party

---

## Page 21

224

- 25

were held on the evening of October l or October 2,

84°

1963.

(FBI. 103-825555 Report, December 11, 1964 entitled

84°

Lee. Harvey Oswald, p. 1)

3100

MexteonGity by busma

stated

That she sam bone

Watking non

Elena was questioned regarding the identity of

other persons attending the party at the Ruben Duran

home who might have been in a position to observe the

three Americans.

Elena stated that in the course of the

party her daughter met a young man named "Alejandro"

842 fritt

at the party and danced with him. He was apparently

quite smitten with the daughter and tried to call her

on several occasions after the party, (Ibird., p.-3)

The daughter did not take the calls and as a result

844

"Alejandro" wrote several letters to the daughter.

(biar, p 3) Ms. Garro exhibited two of the letters,

as well as a business card which identified the young

845

l as Ario Alejandro Lavagnini Stenius. fIbid., p. 3.J

The letter which Ms. Garro said was the first writ-

ten by the young man to her daughter bore the date Septem-

ber 1, 1963 and the Mexico City Post Office postmark dated

846 (botter)

September 2, 1963.

When

AMS. Garrojhas told this she

this was pointed out to

---

## Page 22

zz's

- 26-

commented that the Communists probably had facilities

for falsifying postcare

•847

REPrESENTATIVES

To investigate Ms. Garro's story further, thee

thE

LEGALATTACHI'SOFFIL

Federal Bureau interviewed Ario Alejandro Lavagnini

8+8

Stenius on November 27, 1964. (biu., p. 4-) Lavagnini

recalled that there were approximately thirty people

at lid ruben Durans party, few of whom he knew?sys

called having met a Mexican girl who had recently re-

&50°

turned from living infrance. He was unable to fix the

date of the party, but felt it was porbably early in

September because of

a heavy rain which occurred as they

851

were leaving the party about 2:00 a.m. (Ioid.r

Lavagnini Holed that no Americans present at this

852

party

He was familiar with the physical description

of Lee Harvey Oswald because of publicity following the

assassination of President Kennedy, but otherwise had

no knowledge of him and had never seen him except for

853

news photographs following the assassination. (Ibitt.,

prt.) Levagnini was the only person interviewed by the

LEGAL ATTACHE REPrESENTATIVES

IBI who attended parties at the Duran house in the Sep-

tember-October time.frame.

There is no indication

on the FBI document that

this information was given to the Central Intelligence

854

Agency's Mexico City Station.

• Israion as in tiles

---

## Page 23

W

z26

- 27-

above.)

5.

Charles Thomas' kirst Meeting with Elena Garro Where

Lee Harvey Oswald is Discussed,

on 12/10/65, Charles Thojas, a political officer

at the american imbassy, wrote a memorandum about a con-

versation with Elena Garro de Paz. (ETA #586 587, WX 7241

Entry N0. 425-p-91--674 10. 198.) The meeting with

ELena had been about other matters but she mentioned

knowing Oswald.

Thomas noted that she was reluctant

858.

to talk but did. (bide)

Elena's story reported here is the same as that

given in the

_memo dated 10/5/64, but with

more details.

She said that General Jose Jesus Clark

Lores la friend is Ruben puran's, silvia Duran,

Eusebio Azcue, la pro-Communist writer-friend of the

Durans), and a Latin American Negro man with red hair

859 drin

(unidentified) were at the party. A marginal comment

by this entry in WX-7241 says, "How did Elena know

about a red-haired Negro?" Elena also told Thomas

that she had later learned that Silvia Duran had been

861

Oswald's mistress while he was there."

•JA note by this

entry in WX-7241 says, "How did Elena Garro know about

sivlia being the mistress of Oswald?? This is 1965. "7 4 842

The Mexico City Station did not hear about the Oswald-

Duran "affair" until July 1967 when a CIA asset, LIRING/3,

---

## Page 24

22>

- 28-

843(366-550 time, 22, 0)

reported it.V rAften

reviewing

at the

CIA.

the House select

dormittee on Assassinali

ns

nas

ace ungore to determine with yom RING/3 pas

ass

cared no your rave had knonlarge about Stivia Deran

or Lee Harvey

Elena told Thomas that she and her daughter had

gone to the Cuban Embassy on November 23, 1963 and

shouted "Assassins" and other insults at the Embassy em-

ployces. (C7A 1896-59: M97741, Sntry Nor 425, p. 92,

CIA Neup 778)

That same day, a friend, Manuel Calvillo, whom the

Garco's thought

to bey an official in the Gobernacion, took her and her daugh-

865

ter

to a small hotel in the center of Mexico City. (Hid)

ElINA GArro ANd hEr daughter

they were kept there for eight days, under the pretext

866

Cain.

that they were in danger! (Ilixt.) Elena claimed the

have told calvillo tar she tantad to tell

her story And that she

Authorities At the 4.5.

wantedtotallitto the American

Embassy bid a Calvillo dissuaded

her by telling her that the American Embassy was full

848

of Communist spies. (tbid.) Elena said that some of

the other people who had been at the party were taken

to Veracruz where they were "protected" by Governor

Lopez Ariase finian i fene

House Select Conmittee

unable to determine the veracity

of Ms.

tion

ser teen Investigation of tient dartede Paz'

allogation.) . She

said that Ruben Duran, reportedly

---

## Page 25

225

- 29-

"protected" by General Clark Flores, was very prosper-

ous and was driving a big cat. (CIA $506-589,WX-7241,

EITy So 195, pod, C11 Non280/) Elena also claimed

that Ruben Duran told her months after the assassination

that he was not really a Communist and that killing Ken-

871 dotie

nedy had been a mistake.

(fores; the

Mipuse setect cop.

tion.

de Paz'

ns.) Unattiam Ruben Duran claimed he had

no reason to tell Elena that killing Kennedy had been a

872

mistake since he had no involvement. +

Charles Thomas circulated a copy of his memorandum

concerning Elena's allegations in the American Embassy

including the Central Intelligence Agency's Mexico City

Station to aid them in their investigation of the John

813

F. Kennedy assassination.

(the House Seleut committée

has determined that the Contral Intelliganee Agenay re-

ceivad the

oss 0l the Thomas monorandun prier to Decem-

ber 25, 1965, his next meeting with thena farro. Ster

batow.). The COS wrote a note on the memo: "What an ima-.

gination she has!?!

Should we send to Headquarters>, 874

The memo

The Officer replied,, "Suggest sending. There have

been stories around town about all this, and Thomas is

---

## Page 26

22%

- 3a-

not the only person she has talked to... If memory

serves me, didn't

refer to Oswald and the

875

local leftists and Cubans in one of her squibs?" ters

To 588, 1010 from SW to COS)

The Mexico City Station called the information in

Thomas' 12/10/65 memorandum of conversatione to CIA

Headquarters, (Cable from Menict tity to the Director,

MeXT 5621-daTE OUT Off MY COPY, CIA NOS 584585).

The cable reported that Elena's story would be checked

with LICHANI/1, against the production from the Cuban

surveillance operation 'and other sources." fla,)

Winston Scott wrote, next to the routing indications on

the cable, "Please ask Charles Thomas if he'll 'follow

00878

up. ' Get questions from Ann$ G.

878

Please let's discuss. Thanks." (IC)

After the December 10 memorandum of conversation,

880

881

Winston Scott (Chief/stution) and Nathan Ferris

to clark Anderson as Legal Attacherin Merieo) called

882

Charles Thomas for a meeting.. They asked him to get

a more detailed account of Ms. Garro's story.

At this

meeting, Winston Scott made it clear that thefBI had full

responsipility for any further investigation in the Oswald

case.

(Sitat

ment: bobter From Charlac Themas

5, Ih60

FAK DOCT

---

## Page 27

z3Ü

- 31-

Charles Thomas' Meeting with Elena Garro on December 25.

1965

Thomas met with Elena again on Decmeber 25, 1965.

O'That tame date, he wrote a memorandum of conversation

which provided a much more detailed restatement of Ms.

885

Garro's alleged encounter with Lee Harvey Oswald. feIA

on SCARS, +6 7241, Entry 1127, p. 92, 01A 47297

Elena admitted that she had spokento two men at

886

Ir 7. the Embassy, "presumably from the Legal Attache's Office."

said, she

with then

ing occurrod on Novenber 21, 1964. See

supra, p.

Elena said that she did not tell them

the complete story because "the Embassy officers did not

give much credence to anything she and Elenita saia. " 88)

(EXA NOS. 580-5092W4 7267, Entry 4127, p 92, ETA 1218.)

She stated that the party had been at Ruben Duran's

home.

lIbid. She was unclear about the date of the

881

party.

(Ibiz.).

she thought

It was a few days before the soviet As-

hAdbLENA

tronaut, Gagarin, visited Mexico; she thought that this

880

would put the party around September 2 or 3, 1963. (Toids)

She believed that the party was on a Monday or Tuesday

898

because it was an odd night for a party. (Ibid.) Elena

could not check her calendar to refresh her memory at

the time of the interview because the calendar was in a

desk that had been stored away.

(tuta.)

---

## Page 28

231

32-

During the conversation, Elena described. Oswald

and his companions. (Ibid.) The man who she thought

894

was Oswald wore a black sweater. (Foit.) She said he

895

was quite "and stared a lot at the floor."

(Ioiet.) One

of his companions "was very tall and slender and had

long blond hair and a rather long protruding chin." 891

tibia) Theother companion was also tall, with short,

light brown hair and no distinguishing characteristics. 897

(Ibiet.) The three Americans did not dance or mix with

the other guests.

8 bie.) Elena saw the same three

men

on the street the next day. (Ibíd.)

Elena was certain that Eusebio Azcue, Horacio

Duran, Silvia Duran, Lydia Duran, Deba Guerrero, General

Cark Flores and his mistress, a doctor from Dalinde

Hospital, a young American couple who were honeymooning

in Mexico, and several other people were at the party. 9a

Tibiet.) She said that Ricardo Guerra, whom she claime.

converted Horatio Duran to Communism, and his wife,

shet

Rosado castellanos, were supposed to be at the party

but dia not attend.

90l

(Ivia.) .

Elena alleged that the red-haired man and Emilio

Carballido were

not at the party that Oswald attended

but at another party where Carballido and Azcue got into y

a heated argument about President Kennedy "Viuta.) "They

---

## Page 29

232

- 133÷

came to ten ond usion that the only solution was to

kill him. "q(Ibia.) Elena

was not clear on whether this

party was before or after the party where she met Oswald. 9.5

(shit he Hoose select committee has been unable

confirm the conversation

between

Azcue and Carbaltido

mable ze

Can isor Investigation o1 11011 ida an attegat

i sushi scue stated that a conversation day

MERO OCCURRED.

Elena reiterated that the incident at the Cuban

Embassy, where she and her daughter shouted "Assassins,"

etc. at the Embassy employees, occurred on November 23

907

at or about 3:00 p.m. (Ibic=) Elena and Elenita were

driven to the Cuban Embassy by Elena's brother who was

embarrassed by their behavior. (Ibfd.) This occurred

909

before they had seen photographs of Oswald. (Ibia.)

Ms.: Garro claimed that later in the day she and

Elenita were visited by Manuel Calvillo who thold them

that they were in serious danger from the Communists

and that he would take them to a small hotel, where they

would be safed for a few

days. (Ibid.) Elena said she

trusted and believed Calvillo because

he was a known

undercover agent for the Mexico Government. (Hit:)

He was also a friend of Noe Palomares the Minister of

Immigration) and President Gustavo Diaz Ordaz. Tibic:)

---

## Page 30

233

- 37-

Calvillo also told Elena and her daughter that Silvia

914

Duran had been arrested.

(Ibid.) Duran's arrest was

not public information bit wrentet 25, (6t)

Elena could not remember the name of the hotel

so that same day (12/25/65) she took Thomas to the sec-

tion of Mexico City where she thought it was. (Ibit.).

hi Hotel Vermont

They found the hotely"(fbia.) Elena said that she as-

sumed that Calvillo had registered them as relatives or

From SAN LuIs PotAsI

friends'a (tbit.) They stayed at the hotel until the fol

lowing Friday, November 30, 1963, hardly leaving their

rooms. HIbid. tsee legal Attache report, po

Elena claimed that while she and Elenita were at

the hotel they saw the photos of Oswald and realized

920

that he had been the man at Ruben Duran's party. (Ibia.)

When Calvillo visited them at the hotel, Elena tola him

her story, which she related to Calvillo,

that she wanted to report

It to the American Embassya

however, Calvillo, dissuaded her by stating that the Ameri-

can Embassy was full of Communists. (Ibie.) Elena stated

that when

she returned home, guards were posted.outsiderhouse.guz

The

House sele

car

the

veracity of Ms.

* commit

Carto

unable to

See HSCA In-

Ivestigation of Elena Garro's allegations.)

Elena alleged that after she returned home she saw

her sister, Deba Guerrera, who had independently come to

---

## Page 31

234

-95-

the t

PARTY, 1923

Deba was

"terrified" because

approximately two months after the assassination two

"Communists" personally warned her never to reveal

that she had been to a party with Oswald. Zibiet.)

Deba,

consequently, would not accompany Elena to the Ameri-

975

can Embassy to tell her story on November 24, 1964.

(bia.)

Elena stated that it was "common knowledge" that

Silvia had been Oswald's mistress, PerA Nos. 50a 5e2i

Wx 1241, Intry #427, 59

A 1710.) When asked who

could verify the allegation, she could only remember

one person who had told her this. (Ibta.) Elena claimed

98%

that person was Victor Rico Galan, a "pro-Castro jour-

921

nalist."

(Tbid.) Wietor Rico Galan io dead. the com-

mittee could not verify Ma, Carrol aldegation Silvia

mom denied theatregation. Nonethales it is it, a, 2, a above)

74 asset reported, the same otory in 1967! reapi pony

ing these conversations, lend aisg said that

andexstool that oswara hag beer in Mexico mory

Athan ond

(Ibia.) the useA has been unable to deter

mEn

_date.)

Subsequent to December 25, 1965,

Ihomas

o the Decamber 25

1905 menTO

• Elena

@ found her ca-

lendar and ha

reconstructed the date of the party as

showed this be.

14/35-9*1604

No!

---

## Page 32

235

- 36-

late September and not early September. (EIn N05. 590-

593, as 7221, Entry #42T, P. 42, elA +719.) When Tho-

mas went to Ferris' office and informed him, Ferris re-

plied that Elena had given the late September date when

she had originally reported her story at the American

931

Embassy. (FBI Report, 9/30/69, pp. 3-4, JFK DOC. No. .

However, Mi. Ferris explained to Thomas that someone who

had been at the twist party had stated that there were no

Americans

there.

93201a.) Mr. Ferris dia not tell Mr.

Thomas that Ario Alejandro Lavagnini Stenius ferris

1964 interviewhad provided this information in 1964. 933

Suena, p

) Mr. Ferris suggested that it was not

necessary for Thomas to pursue Elena's allegations since

he considered the Oswald case closed and had heard all

the rumors before. (aDI Roper

+30460, 09-34, JEK

Dee. to.

Thomas

The State Department forwarded (the same day) a

copy of the Chartes thomas memorandum to the Central In-

telligence Agency's Mexico City Station to aid in their y

investigation of the John F. kennedy assassination. 435

On the first page of the memorandum of conversation,

Winston Scott wrote, "Shouldn't we send to Headguarters?"

Someone resonded, "Of course." (6I4 Noo, 599 593, 4X 7241,

Bairy 1197, p 92, 07711220 934

an Decenter 141945, tea see, eat, epitary tat

reporting that them, it was" following up" and would cable

the rasults. 937

---

## Page 33

236

- 37-

7. December 27, 1965 Legal Attache Memo to the United States

Ambassador re Elena Garro

On December 27, 1965 Nathan Ferris wrote a memo

to the Ambassador reporting that Elena and her daughter

were interviewed on 17 and 24 November 1964 by the Legal

938

Attache's office in Mexico City.

Memo to the Ambassador

tres FE/29/65, CIA #5781 WX-7241;

Entry 129, pr 2s, CIA $721. The memo recorded that

Elena and her daughter had furnished information simi-

to the informant reported in Thomas' 12/10/65 memo. 939

(551u.) The memo further stated,

"Inquiries conducted at that time (Novem-

ber 1964), however, failed to substantiate

the allegations made by Mrs. Garro de Paz

and her daughter. In view of the fact that

Mrs. Garro de Paz' allegations have been pre-

viously checked out without substantiation,

no further action is being taken concerning

9f0

her recent repetition of those allegations.

(Thia)

The Legal Attache forwarded a copy of the memoran-

dum to the Central Intelligence Agency's Mexico City

Statione

"the Horse select committer has determined

that the copy was forvended prior to 12/29/1392,

---

## Page 34

Hell is what?

23?

- 38-

Winston foott superimposed a note ta rune

Got pasture

on this mome whicirread, "can we send in!

header tenut

messing one abdo?" E

Isanthestegal Attacie, 12727755, CHA 758,WS7241

A cable written by Anne Goodpasture on December

29, 1965 reporting the Legat interview with Elena and

the Legat Office's failure to substantiate Elena's story

was sent to Headquarters. Memo from Mexico city to the

DIreCtOX, 12/29/65, MEXI 5141, CIA 7575; WX 1241 Entry

#130, p. 94, CIA #727.) The cable promised to keep

Headquarters advised if any further information sore w.

94y

to develope (Fbia.)

110/5/64 memo is attached to the 12/29/65 cable. (bd,

WX-7241 explained this in a marginal comment, "This

document byl

was not in (Oswald's file), but

was copied from (a project file) and attached to maxt

5741, 29 Dec. 65. " (Ibid.)

A note stapled to this cable by

stated,

"I don't know what FBI did in November 1964, but the

Garros have been talking about this for a long time

947-0690e

and she is said to be extremely bright."

Anne Goodpasture

---

## Page 35

23%

- 39-

wrote that the FBI had found Elena's allegations un-

substantiated but that "we will try to confirm or

9y8

refute Ms. Garro de Paz's information and follow up."

tubed)

Win scott wrote, "She is also "nuts. ' 9761a., can 1579).

Á CIA Investigation of Elena's Allegation that the Created

* Disturbance at, the luban Embassy on November 23, 1963

On February 3, 1966, Anna Gpodpasture forwarded

Thomas' December 25, 1965 memo to the Cuban section at

the Mexico City Station with an attached note asking

the festion.

them to check whether Elena was "seen creating such a

disturbance as they claimed in front of the Cuban Em-

bassy."

(It is apparent that the Mexico City Station was

attempting to either refute or corroborate some of Elena

Garro's allegations.

5 Note from Aime Goodpasture to

721-

- One Cuban section officer responded, "No bells

ring with me." Another one wrote, "Me neither."' The

95°

third officer wrote, "No pictures either." fluid.)

othere is no indication that the penetration agents in

the Cuban Embassy were queried about Elena's allegation.

Huit., That there are not pictures is

reasonable since

Elena claimed that the event happened: 1) on a Saturday

---

## Page 36

239

-yo-

at 3:00 p.m. when the Cuban Embassy

1533232710 , 3, 0802*

photographically surveilled; and 2) the "disturbance"

occurred inside the Cuban compound. HSCA Examination

of the CIA Cuban Embassy photographic surveillance

954

showed no surveillance on 11/23/63. (Classified Sum-

mary us stafi Review of CIA Ducuments, undated, p- 3,

9. Legal Attache 2/23/66 Memo to the United States Ambassador

Regarding Elena Garro's Allegations

On 2/23/66 the Legal Attache wrote a memo to the

Ambassador reporting that "extensive investigation"

failed to disclose that Oswald had traveled to Mexico

prior to September 26, 1963 and that no information had

developed that would show that he had not been in New

955

Orleans in the early part of that month. (Memo IrOn Legat

to Ambassador, 2/23/66,-073 #571, WX-7241 Entry #455,

po 95, CIA #722.) The memo reiterated that no further

action was being taken by the FBI because Elena's alle-

164 184711.951

gations had not been substantzated. (bld.) The Legal

Attache forwarded a copy of this memo to the Central In-

telligence Agency's Mexico City Station fai

(are House se-

rect conmittee on sonassinations has been unable to

determine when the copy was forwarded to

the CIA.) A

marginal comment made by

Anne Cootpasture next to this

entry in WX-7241 says, "How can it be ascertained that

---

## Page 37

240

- 41-

Oswald did not travel to Mexico prior to early Septem-

ber 1963?

There must be some basis for Elena's report-

95%

ing."

(Ibich, referenced to Thomas; 12/25/65 memo.)

Legal Attache Memo to Winston Scott re Elena's Allega-

tion that She Had Stayed at the Hotel Vermont from the

Day After the Assassination until November 30, 1963

on 10/13/66, the Legal Attache wrote a memo to

WIN SCOTT

the CIA/COS reporting that

a reliable confidential in-

formant had reported that the records of the Hotel Ver-

mont disclosed that""flena Paz, housewife from San Iuis

Potosi," had registered at the Hotel Vermont on Novem

959

ber 23, 1963.

She left on November a6o, 1963- (meo

from begat to Winston Scott, 10/13/66, CIA NO. 564;

WX-7217, Entry 1466, P. 98, CIA $125; Thomas' 7713766

memo.)$ The House Select Committee on Assassinations

has been unable to determine why the Central Intelli-

gence Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigations

waited until 1966 to investigate this aspect of Elena's

story.$

The memo said, "The above individual.may or

981

may not be identifical with Elena Garro de Paz. (bid=)

Charles Thomas' 12/25/65 meno corroborates then

Garro's p

the tiatel vermont. It states, "she

and her daughter did not personally register at the

---

## Page 38

resem

Garrus

Verma.

241

Hotel

-42-

Ast

stráborates

hotel:

She thinks Calvillo registered them as rela-

tives of friends of his from San luis Postosi.'"

of conversation by charles romas, 12/25/85, p. 31

CIA #582.) The entry for the 10/13/66 Legat memo in

WX-7241 bore the notation, "This is what Elena claimed

963

and no one would believe her."

tWX-9241, Bntry 1466,

Il Charles Thomas' September 30, 1969 Letter to State Depart-

ment and Legal Attache's Response

No further report on Elena's story was generated

OF THE united StAtes

until 1969 when Charles Thomas was "selected

Forregn

SERVICE.

been in one graie

ported

NOT COFFINETEE

50

tom higher grade!) At that time, he wrote a memorandum

to the Secretary of State which included a cover letter

stating, "Since I was the Embassy Officer in Mexico

who acquired this intelligence information, I feel a re-

sponsibility for seeing it through to its final evalua-

tion. "9"s

"Istate Department, botta From Charles Phonas

tailbie rogers, secretary of Stater July 25r 1969)

Charles Thomas' memorandum stated that "he got no

reaction from Nathan Ferris and Winston Scott" regarding

---

## Page 39

242

- 43 -

his memorandum of December 25, 1965. Made Departmentte

Lotter from Charles mollas to wiltion Rogers, Seeretary

af State, July 25, 1909) In addition, Thomas wrote

that the only person to speak to him about the Decem-

ber 25, 1965 memorandum, Clarence Boonstra (Deputy Chief

restment, shrief of Affairs at the

nely's assassination and subsequent

tion) told him that Oswald had not been

968

in Mexico on the date given for the party. (Ilsic)

inter thomas to WETEl'am

RO

-retary

515251964) Thomas noted

that even when he reiterated that Elena had not changed

her story but rather that she had now given a more de deta.led

curate account, Boonstra stated that the date was wrong

969

and dismissed the entire affair. TIbia)

One of the Mexico City Legat Officers, Nathan Ferris,

in reply to Thomas' letter and memorandum, asserted

that Phomas" offic

ad been advised by memoranda that e

Thomas' office had been advised by memoranda dated Decem-

ber 27; 1965 and February 23, 1966 that since Elena

Garro's allegations had previously been investigated

" without substantiation, no further action was being taken

concerning her recent repetition of those allegations.

97°

(1

In

---

## Page 40

243

their report, the Legat's Office concluded that either

the Counselor for Political Affairs did not route the

memoranda to Charles Thomas or that Thomas did not re-

971

call receiving them. ford.

Thomas wrote that when he went to Nathan Ferris'

office to inform him that Elena had found her calendar

and had reconstructed the date of the party as late

September, Ferris replied that Elena had given the

late September date when she had originally reported

her

912

story at the American

Embassy.

Istate Department:

Lattar sxon Charles thems to wiltiam royers, secretary

of State, July 25 1989) Thomas noted that Ferris

explained that someone who had been at the party had

stated that there had not

been any Americans En AttendaNcE (973)

Tum srote that he had assumed that Elena could have clear-

ly been mistaken about the identity of the American

she saw there, but never doubted that she had seen

some Americans. (41%,, Thomas wrote that Ferris had

suggested that it was not necessary for thomas to pursue

the matter since he considered the Oswald case closed

925

and had heard all the rumors before. (Ibid.)

that Mr. Ferris had not told Thomas that someone who was

at the party had stated that there had

not been any Ameri-

cans present. (F91 Report, 9/39/69, P. 4, JFK DoC. NO.. ›

---

## Page 41

12

244

- 45

The Legal Attache's memo asserted that Thomas had

been told that it would not be necessary for him to

pursue the matter any further since Elena's story had.

977

been investigated previously without being substantiated.

fIbra. In addition, the memo stated that Thomas had

been told that Elena's story was considered a closed

issue, not that the Oswald case was closed. (Ibia.) $78

House Select Committee on Assassination's Investigation

of Elena Garro's Allegations

The House Select Committee on Assassinations in-

vestigated Elena Garro's story both through file reviews

and personal interviews. The Committee requested and

reviewed the CIA's, FBI's and State Department's files,

lable, on Elena Garro de Paz, Elenita Garro de

Paz, Manuel Calvillo, Noe W. Palomares, June Cobb Sharp,

Victor Rico Galan, Eunice Odio, Sylvia Duran, Lydia

Duran, Ruben Duran, Betty Serratos, Horatio Duran, Eusebio

Azcue, and Emilio Carballido. Only the Elena Garro de

Paz file contained information on her allegations. Though

all the names listed above played a role in Elena Garro

de Paz' story, not one of their files included a refer-

ence, to Elena Garro de Paz.

Furthermore, the House Select Committee on Assassina-

tions requested and reviewed the Central Intelligence

---

## Page 42

245

- 46-

Agency's

and

LIRING/ 3} *

files.: Once again, not one of the files

included a mention of Elena Garro's allegations. The

House Select Committee on Assassipations learned that

mas June cobb sharpino first reported to

the CIA Elena's allegation,

'(Supra, p. 4.) The Commit-

tee also learned that

was, Manuel Calvillo

who had hidden Elena Garro' and her daughter in a hotel

980

the day following the assassination. (fupra., p. 15:)

He also told Elena that Silvia Duran had been arrested

981

before this fact had become public knowledge.

Since a

file review was inconclusive, the Com-

mittee deeded to arranged interviews in Mexico with Ruben Ducan, Hurativ

Duran,

Elena and fleaito Garro,

Silvia Duran, Lynn Duran, Emilio Carbillido and Betty

987

Serratos.

The Mexican Government informed the House

Select Committee on Assassinations that Elena and Elenita

Garro disappeared in 1968 during the student uprisings

1983

and have never returned to Mexico. The officials stated

that Elena and her daughter might be in Spain. (See

Mexieo City

procedural Write up Trip 1.) The Mexican

government reported that Emilio tarballido could not be

found. (Ibia.) The others were interviewed between

956

June 1 and June 6, 1978. (Ibid.)

Betty Serratos, Lydia Duran, Ruben Duran and

Horatio Duran all stated that Elena was not

the dancing

---

## Page 43

246

-47

type and therefore did not attend any of the twist

987

(See" use

parties at the Duran homes.

retty berratos 4460470

Wet Desumery

HECAStart

etervier of Lydia Duremy 645/70 p76 JEK

ESCA Document N0.

aroratio Duran Navarro, 675/78,p-25,

When Sivlia Duran was asked

if Elena or Elenita Garro ever attended twist parties

at the Duran homes, she recalled Elena attending one

twist party at Ruben's home in 1963 With the Garros

988

returned to Mexico from France.

tiseA staff Interview

of silvia ITrade Bazall, 6/6/70, F. 90, JFK, Document

-to.

All the Durans denied that Lee Harvey Oswald

989

had attended any party at one of their homes.

(String

cites.)

The Committee next asked the Central Intelligence

Agency to arrange Whose interviews withl

(Manuel

Calvillo) ,

](June Cobb),) atong with a list of

inst who may have had information related to Lee

990

Harvey Oswald's trip to Mexico City.(

The Central Intelligence Agency declined to aid the Com-

mittee inthis aspect of the investigation.

on August 7, 1578

The Commitee returned to Mexico City and attempted

locate June Cobb Sharp and Manuel Calvi 110 a ,122

---

## Page 44

247

- 48-

ottowa

i The Mexican government told the Commit-

tee that June Cobb Sharp received a tourist

INDENT

permit, number 72781, on June 27, 1947 when

she entered Mexico through Nuevo Lardeo.

She asked, but was denied, permission to re-

present the magazine, Modern Mexico. On

June 21, 1948, she received a courtesy per-

2

mit, number 25556. Furthermore, the Mexi-

can government explained that she disappeared

993

in 1954 and never returned to Mexico.'

(See

procedural writeup tip a Mexico eity.)

AT The Committee believes there is a passibitize

that this information is incorrect. According to Ms.

Cobb's CIA file, she worked for the agency as an asset

in Mexico from 1961 through 1966.

''''can repon, 1965,

June Gobb file, 201-

Elena also stated that

Ms. Cobb resided at her home in 196495 pep.

IT The Mexican government told the Committee

that Manuel Calvillo did not live at Cuotemoc

877-5. as the Committee had informed the

Their

agent-in-charge had spoken to the superintendant

at the apartments at which Lamuel Calvillo was

nd away fermed it!

believed to reside, the superintendent who had

worked at the apartments for twenty-five years,

---

## Page 45

245

- 47-

Indent

said that no Manuel Calvillo had ever re-

sided there.

When Comnittee staffers gave the

Mexican government Calvillo's pen name, the

Mexicans gave the same answers 9%c

(Bee Procedaral Write Mexico City Trip 2)

believes thief there is a possibalty.

The Committee is certain that Mr. Calvillo lived at this

address singe it acquired the address from a recent CIA

document. (CIA Report, 1976, Manuel Calvillo file,

201-

)

The Committee believes that there is a possibility

and.S. Cost agent

requested

Mexican goderneat

that

the Mexiean government received ordero from the eels

elliyence Ayenoy to

refrain from aiding the Com-

mittee with this aspect of its work?'s

(See Procedural Write-

up Irip 2 Mexico CityIANo SEctioN Ill, C, BELOW,

The Committee made every attempt possible to locate

Elena. On July ?, 1978 @ Committee Kätte

telephoned

her publisher, Moriz, in Mexico City and Ashur about beliNa's

whereabouts. Hoes state contact Repatt, MITro, UPK Do-

cument To. 10016) The publisher stated that Ms. Garro

living in the Hotel S.A.C.E. in Madrid, Spain. (itie.)

S.A. C.4.

The Committee Staff

telephoned the HotelVin Spain and

spoke to the manager who told him that Ms. Garro had

moved. leue.

(Taist:) tHSeA Staff contact Report, 717/784

the

Ink Document to.

) On July 14, 1978 a Committee

---

## Page 46

249

- 50. -

called her publisher again and was told to con-

tact the Mexican Embassy in Madrid, Spain. HISeA Staff

Contact Repart, 7/11/78, IRk Document da 1950) the

publisher stated that all Elena's payments were sent

there because she did not even trust her publisher.

1013

with her address.

The Committee

called the Mexican Embassy

in Madrid,. Spain and spoke to Adolfo Padilla, a Mexican

employee of the Embassy who stated that when Elena had

visited the Embassy a couple of weeks tefore. do pick

up a check she faced financially poor. Hisen staff

Contact Repoat, 8/31/70, JFK Document No.

, He

stated that when he asked Elena her new address she de-

clined to give one, stating that she would return every

1005

few weeks to pick up checks and mail. (Ibiu.) The Com-

mittee gave Padilla a telephone number and a message

1006

asking Elena to telephone the Committee collect. (bitt

On September 5, 1978 Elena Garro called the Com-

21007

It wAs

mittee.starter.

When the the

Te explained that the Com-

mittee wished to talk to her in person and would pay

both her daughter's

and her travel from spainto the United States

Ms. Garro

asked why she should believe the deafer was who yie

claimed to be. Misea Staff contact Report, 9/5/78, JEK

Doeument No. , The Cemmit"asked Ms. Garro to call

back collect in the next few days when he could explain

---

## Page 47

250

-57-

to her when and where she could receive a Committee let-

ter delineating why the Committee wished to interview

100%

her. (Ibiu.) The Committee wrote the letter and

made

arrangements with the State Department for a letter to

be hand-delivered to Elena at the American Embassy in

1010

Spain. (So attached tatter lao liSch Stuff contaat

Reparty 915/78, JFK Document No.

)

On September 7, 1978, Elena Garro called the Commit-

tee bearE

and asked when the letter would arrive.

insen staff contact depost, 917/98, JA Document NO.

The Committee Btaffe

'explained that the letter could

PicK upthElIttE

be gotten on Monday, September 11, 1978 from Georg

Phelan, the Counsellor for Consular Affairs at the Ameri-

can Embassy "fiuld?) Ms. Garro stated that she would

get the letter on September ll, 1978 and follow .our

1013

suggestions.

(bid-)

Ms. Garro never went to the American Embassy in

Spain to fick the Committee's letter! "Fisen staff contact

Reportr 9/15/78, JFK Document NO.

) The Committee,

hoping she would pick up the letter before her flight

date, proceeded to purchase air tickets

for both Elena

10s s

and her daughter. (HEGistakE Son

Report, 9/1278,

JFK Document sia Elena did not fet the tickets at

the airport. Wisen staf

contact Report, 9/15/78, JFK

BEEN ABlE tO

REgAIN

The Committee was not

contactee

---

## Page 48

- 5357

uNis. de Paz again.

The committee also investigated whether "thomas"

"selection out"

was

related to the Oswald case.

After

interviewing his widow, Ms. Cynthia Thomas, the Committee

has concluded that his dismissal was unrelated. (ASGA

Staff interview of Cynthia homas,

JEK

focument Na

In sum, the House Select Committee on Assassinations

has not been able to confirm the evidence that would

indicate that Lee Harvey Oswald, on one night while he

was in Mexico, attended a "twist party" at the home

of Ruben Duran Navarro, the brother-in-law of Silvia.

Duran. In addition, the House Select Committee on Assas-

sinations has been unable to confirm the allegation

that Lee Harvey Oswald travelled while in Mexico City

with "two beatnik-looking boys." A large pArt of the

Committee's Attempts to INvestigate theSe IsSuEs hAs met

with frustration.

D. Oscar Contreras Lartigue

On March 16, 1967, B. J. Ruyle, the American Consul

in Tampico, reported to the American Embassy that he

had spoken

to a reporter whom allegedly had met lee Har-

vey: Oswald.at National Autonomous University of Mexico

1018

City HENAN in 1963.

l american boy contes peter

S74M 4A 43 570, p 110, Gt21727) Astressing that he had

only a fleeting contact with Oswald, The reporteR)had

---

## Page 49

-

33-

have?

claimed to

knowonly about Lee Harvey Oswald's desire

to travel to Cuba and the Embassy's unwillingness to

1010

grant him a visa.

(fbit.) When B. J. Ruyle asked the

reporter for permission to cable the story to the Ameri-

can Embassy, the reporter declined stating that he

1021

feared losing his job. (Ibid:) Subsequent to the assas-

sination, the reporter had told his editor about his

contact with Lee Harvey Oswald, who had advised him not

to report it. (Ibia.) The reporter granted B. J. Ruyle

permission to cable the story to the American Embassy

when Ruyle promised that it would be handled with the

1023

strictest confidence. (Ibid.) Ruyle wrote that he

thought

the reporter was genuinely concerned about his

PuaY

job. (Foia.)

A letter from B. J. Ruyle to the State Department

dated May 11, 1967 provided additional details of the

1085

reporter's story. (Letter to Wesley D. Bowles, Chief of

Mexican political affalrs, office of Mexiean Affaiss,

Department of State from B. J. Ruyte, American Consul,

Tampico, 5/11/67; WX 7211 entry #597, P. 114, CIA #741)

The reporter alleged that he and some fellow students

had met Lee Harvey Oswald as they exited the Cineclub at

the Escuela de Filosofia (School of Philosophy) at the

1086

National Autonomous University of Mexico. (Ibid.) Oswald

---

## Page 50

253

- 54-

told the group that he had gone to the National Autono-

mous University of Mexico looking for pro-Castro stu-

dents who might help him persuade the Cuban Embassy to

1027

grant him a visa. (Ibid.) Oswald claimed that he was

fron California and was a member of a pro-castro group

in New Orleans. (Tid. Oswald remained with the stu-

dents the rest of that day and evening; as well as the

following day. bid. The reporter described Oswald

as a strange and introverted individual who spoke very

little Spanish. (Ibies)

The State Department forwarded

a copy of Ruyld's letter to the Central Intelligence

183 8

Agency.

tre committee could not determine when the

State Department forwarded the lutter to the era.) on

June 14, 1967, CIA Headquarters sent the Mexico City

Station a copy of Ruyle's letter to Bowles. Hispatch

considered Ruyle's report "the first piece of substantive.

info about Oswald's sojourn in Mexico" since the assas-

1037

sination. TIbia.)

that though

Consequently, Headquarters cabled

understood the source's relictance to

become involved "the fact remains that this info

cannot

continue to be withheld or concealed." (Ibid.) Head-

quarters instructed the Mexico City Station to elicit

1035

the identity of the source from Ruyle. In addition,

---

## Page 51

1254

- 155

Headquarters asked the Mexico City Station to bear in

mind, while interviewing Ruyle's source, that

Lee Harvey

1036

Oswald was a homosexual. (Ibia.) The final sentence of

the dispatch, "It is our hope that the facts obtained

through these interviews will help to confirm that

several of Garrison's allegations about involvement of

1017

anti-Castro Cubans, the CIA, etc. are false," (Ibia)

explained the Central Intelligence Agency's motives

for purusing the story.

On June 29, 1967, the Mexico City. Station cabled •

Headquarters that a station officer had gone to Tampico

where he had interviewed Ruyle's source, Oscar Contreras. /038

teable from Mexico cIty to the Director, MEXI 1950, 6/294

The: cable

67 in 7249-271459 1622, 1. 118, CIA 4745) the cable re-

ported that Contreras was a reported for El/Sol (a news-

paper, The Sun) in Tampico; was circa 30 years old;

married, with three children; studied law at the National

Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) from 1960 to

1964; belonged to a pro-Castro group at UNAM; was per-

secuted by the Mexican police for this affiliation and

moved to rampico to escape the persecution unto Exia (104)

Mexico City to the DirectOr, MEXT 1950, 6/29/67÷ WX-7241,

entry #622, 9.118, #745.)

Contreras told the Mexico City Station official

1041

that he and four other individuals (#then contreras vas

---

## Page 52

- 156

255

made newho prad

sit interming on them wighat

ahe

mily.) had met Oswald as they exited a

roundtable discussion held at the School of Philosophy

at UNAM'" (Cable from Mexico City to Director, MEXI 1950,

6/29/67; D# 7241, entry # 622, p. 118, CIA #74S) Contre-

ras stated that Oswald had made inquires on the UNAM

campus about, pro-cuban groups and had been directed to

his group. fIbia.) Contreras reported that though the

group initially mistrusted Oswald fearing he was a "CIA

provocation," they allowed Oswald to remain with them

1044

that day and night and part of the following day. (Ibiê.)

Contreras noted that Oswald never mentioned assassination

but kept emphasizing that he had to get to Cuba. (Ibid.)

In adsition, Oswald had exhibited no homosexual tenden-

1066

cies while he was with the group. fIbra.)

On July 4, 1967, Headquarters cabled the Mexico

City Station that Contreras' story should be explored

to the fullest even though he might have fabricated it.

able from the Director to Mexico City 719/67, DIR

26823, WX 1241, Entry 628, 0. 119, CTA 4746) Headquarters

suggested that the FBI handled the story.

(Ibia.) The

following day, July 5, 1967, the Mexico City Station

---

## Page 53

25%

- 57

cabled that it preferred turning Contreras'

case over

1049

to the Mexican

authorities and to the F.b.I. feabile

from Mexico City to the Director, 1/5/67, MEXI 1991:

WX 7241, Entry 627, p- 119, CTA $746. Headquarters

suggested that the f.B.I, handle the story. (Ibid.)

Ia fellowing day, July 5o 1967, the Mexico city Sta-

tion cabled that it preferred turning Contreras! cave

aver to the Mexican authorities and the F.B.I. Table.

from Mexico city to the Director, 7/5/67, MEXI 1991;

#X 7241, Entry 62T, P. II9, CTA $746.) The same day,

the Chief of Station informed the Legat of Contreras'

story, but asked him not to take any action without

1050

previously consulting the Mexico City Station. (Memo

to tegat, 1/5761 troll Chief of Station; WX 72Xl, entry

528, p. I19, CIA #746-1

On July 10, 1967.1

wrote

a memo delineating the results

of a Mexican government

review of Oscar Contreras' file. (Memo from

re

oscar contreras.419048-7241, Tires

$834, 9. 120,

According to the memo, a lone Oscar Contreras

appeared in the UNAM law school records, Oscar Contreras

Lartigue, baob 2/14/39 in Ciudad Victoria, Tamaulipas 1052

(7157a. The memo also reported that a newspaper article

appearing in "Excelsior" listed an Oscar Contreras as

a signer of a protest for the Bloque Estudiantil Revolu-

cionario. s

1057

which had been formed mid-1961. (Ibia.) (The

pe!

---

## Page 54

257

- 58-

duge Castro

→ Agtonio Ieniro Adame,

sose

Guerrico, Carlos Ortiz Fijeda, Daniel

Holma

Balvez, Humberto Hiriante,

Oscar Gonzales,

Hiban Garcia Redro-Sainz Cepeda,- Alberte

ose

Equardo Pascuale Juan "Saldana,

Martin reyes Baissade!

VI

ente Ivablamas, Rubilit

o and Jesus

•) The memo speculated that Contreras probably

signed the protest as a

front man to protect the real

leaders of the group.

1o5eoit.) The Mexico City station

called the information to Headquarters the following

1056

day, June 11, 1969.

(Dispatch from Mexiao Gity to

restor uns7, +441-671-03 1247, TOry 4655, p.

121, GIA H718)

The Committer has determined that the Central

Intelligence Ageacy's main interest in Osear Contreras Was

" to confirm that several of Gerrisons allegations about

involvement of anti- Castro Cubans, the CrA, ete. are false.

"1057

After the clA

Maxico City Station officials interviewe

1058

with Contreras

revealed nothing that could be

useful to the agency,. It decided to allow the FBI

to follow the stray

theuugh.

interviewed the

ted witness me

Ninetheless, the Agree Meries for

ten appetition, suicued pertant files,

I about the

reparted all the inframation to Headquarters expedit Mexicate gimm

Sly Passession

---

