# 194-10012-10037_

## Page 1

Date

Page

: 02/11/98

:

1.

AGENCY

RECORD

NUMBER

RECORDS

SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM/CSF

194-10012-10037

DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AC643360W - PAGES 24-25

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

USA

FROM

:

ALBRO, R. D.

TO :

TITLE : CUBAN OPERATIONS

DATE : 10/16/62

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS : PFUNTNER, JORDAN J.

ALPHA 66

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

:SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/22/97

OPENING CRITERIA: COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY CIA AND ONI.

COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH CIA PG. 24 AND ONI PG. 25 HAVE BEEN

COMPLETED AND DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE,

PER CIA LTR

ONI MEMO DTD 12 JAN 98.

Anmy AnDALT

6 (1) (3)

---

## Page 2

SFCRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

3922-97

A0SI-C0 6.201

Cuban Opezacions (0)

AC3X

DEE

1 6 007 1962

Maj Deckez/Ops/Goll Div/56159/da

1, (S) The puspose of thla paper to to advise the 1081 of a proposal made by a

representative of the Alpha 66 organtzation, and to recommand couzas of action in con-

nection therewith.

(6) The USA Oparational Survey Datnchnent (0840S) has three contacta ulth

the Alpha G6 group:

a Jordan does Primes, in contact math the USAse team in Mtand. He Isa

IS attiren and in employed an e pleador consultant. Hs stparmily has duct contact

with the highest echelons of the Alpha 66 getup.

Da Tuo carded sourna, Insurance antesmen ta Pacaro Eido, one a US citizen,

the other a Cubas extle, the are te contact with membars of the Alpha 66 grip,

are used primaily an spotter/vanrulter, ant have voluatenzed information on activi-

CLAs di Alpha 66. A racent examplo mas prlos notifiontion of the 8 Oct mid against

La Ieabela de Sagua.

The USOßD teen ta afforded no saceas to members of the Alpha 66 grop,

does nos furiab roguirements or finance any of the groups activities.

3* (8)

01 the abovementtonad contacta only FENNINBR 1e considerad to have an

impoztant entace to Alpha 66.

Initial contact was entablished vith hairmer by the

USAOSD tean In Miami In Septenber 1962. During the fire threc contacts, Pfunter made

tha following statemants:

That ha vas in contact with a group that was going to conduct raids

against Cuba. Tha group was aubraquently identifled as Alptu 66.

I. That the group ratuend to wort with CIA, but desized to wark with the Us

military.

That the group destred aupport of the US Arry In their action phase, l.e.,

funds, equipment, asms, etc,, In return the group vould procide intelligence Informa

would furioh captured equient, and could lund agents In Cube.

The group esti

mated it vould requira 3100, 000 to complete the balance of les progran, consisting of

OK TO rEVEAL 2HY 01

To assess Pfunner and his elatus, and in the hope of obtalring intelll-

genca information, UBAOSD requested Plunties to

Mand Intelligence inforation on Cuba.

Commundcation sit Ffuntner on 12 Oct

Indicated that Sovlot equipmeut and information would bo made available to USAOSD in the

SECI

CRET

TO BE RETURNED TO

OPERATIONS SECTION ONLY

SOPNE BR, COLIECTION DIV

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS

24

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200.10

0/2164

3

GoTY

---

## Page 3

SECT

niz l

ABBI-dO

SUBJECE: Guban Oparation (U)

asax future as a senult of the grouple & Out said ou la Isabota de Jagua, It ea

further Indicated that important Infomation cocerning Sovtet undemator dealitton

toan (UNT) countermouures nau also obituad on this sodd and that the artumors who

antopiad to sink a Bunsian ship dauired to dincion lal experieuen with a IS sxpert

In undervatar winning. ONE bas stated thety interest in participating in a debudoting

of thero individualo on this subjoos, ad tho debrtating sn be azanged to tula place

2o, Fuerto Fleo.

It to belzeved that Alpha G6 hou an excollent potential o obtain mill-

tary intelligence Infuruntdon fron Guza sa voll an items of Savlet ardance matertel;

howevez, Alpha d6 to an schlox type organization egogod in combatting Cumundon by

canad fozco.

This placau any aspioltation of the group by the US military nader the

cogalauce of Conaral Lonadale.

6. (1) Bacommenductens:

see ONE

That the AGST authoutze debrlofing of the Alpha 66 nimmora In Fuarto

419/95

Rico by a USAOS capresenentire with participation of an oly reprarentative.

Ehat the AGST authorico DEL to brior Canezal Lanadale on the Alpha 66 pao-

posal to fumiah intelligonce intomation and nateriel in retuzu for Ananolal suppork,

to datermina the extent of aupport, if any, that could be provided

C..

That the AcSt authoriae DIt to inacrot the USA082 to wack with any sp-

proved pars thatasy oparations that mighe evolve, to insure tha nanta collection of

military Intalligence intonation.

Ro D.

ALBRO

Colonel, Gs

Aeting Director of

Toreign Intelligenee

M/R: Presents to General Fitch background on proposal made to USAOSD by a representa

tive of an anti-Castro action group that they furnish mil intel info and captured materiel

resulting from their raids on Cuba In returu for support of their activities by the

US military.

SuPP

C. F. 'DECKER.

Major, Gs

Ops Br/Call Div

x56159

16 Oct 62/đa

FILE:

COORDINATION:

USADSD -

TO BE RETURNED TO

IRIS SECAN ONES

• PR COLLECTION DIV

СБОР

124241 EVALS

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200.10

25

RECOMMEND APTROVAI,

Chief, collection Div

---

