# 194-10013-10448

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

Date: 04-04-2018

Date

Page

15/24/98

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

: INSCOM/CSF

194-10013-10448

DOD-AFFILIATED

PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

ZF400026W - PAGES 265-269

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM

TO

TITLE

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION

DATE

11/01/63

PAGES

SUBJECTS : CUBAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE

CUBAN OFFICER TRAINING PROGRAM

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B,

2

CURRENT

STATUS RELEASED WITH DELETIONS JFK biji)

DATE OF LAST

REVIEW: 03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

---

## Page 2

C-2 EURIM ARMIT

1714

conTact L.

JUNHARY OF INFORMATION SECKET.

(SE 380-320- 10)

1 Nov 1963

PREPARING OFFICE

Region 1, L12th Intelligence Corps Group, San Antonio, Texas

CODE FOR USE IN INDIVIDUAL PARAGRAPH EVALUATION

OF SOURCE:

OF

Cuban Officer Training Program

(U)

COMPLETELY RELIABLE •

CONFIRMED BY OTMER SOURCES. 2

DOUALLY RELIABLE A .

RALIABLE

NOT USUALLY REASLA

C-CERIC

HERE PIER MNSORN

0 Ou

COUR FULLY RUS

C6: 7.1-4

(5)

COPIE.

0

During the month of June 1963,

Manolo Artine,

among

the

Hort

Guban

a leading political figure

refugees in Miami, Florida,

in the company of Sagundo Gornes,

came to

Benning,

Georgia, for the purpose of recruiting people to go to a revolutionary

camp in Nicaragua.

2d Lt,

C2 312 405, Detachment 21,

2d Student Battalion (SB), the Student Brigade,

Fort Benning,

Georgia, presently

on Temporary Duty (TDY) with 3628th School Squadron

Lackland

Air Force Base

(LAFB), Texas; Mario Eloy

2d SB,

presently

Jimenez-Rojo. 2d Lt, C2 312 439,

Detachment

on TDY with 3628th SS,

LAFB: Armando Caballero-Parodi, 2d Lt. C3

312 432. Detachment 21,

Varona"

2d SB,

presently

on TDY with

3628th SS, LAFB; "Llayo (Enu)

and Source went to visit Artine in his motel in Columbus, Georgia.

Artime

inforned this group that

the US Government was not

going to do anything for Cuba and

that he (Artime) had obtained aid and instructors from Europe.

Source opposed Artime's

statements and did not believe it,

since

they were in conflict with the aspirations

and plans of the US Government.

Source believes

Artine succeeded in recruiting at

least two members of Detachnent 21,

IS2aT0→. Montasino-Acosta, 20 Lt, CZ 312 40k, and

Pedro Acebo-Rodriguez.

2d It, C2 312 350.

Montesino-Acosta and Acebo-Rodriguez re-

signed from the Cuban Training Program upon

completion of the course at Fort Benning,

and their present

whereabouts

are unknown to Source.

SOURCE: The above information was furnished

b(lii)

(F-3)

2.

( C)

The Officers of Detachment 21 commented among themselves that Manolo

Artime came to Columbus,

Georgia,

to recruit personnel fron the Cuban Officer Training

Program to go to a camp in Nicaragua.

Source did not know anything concerning any

officers who were planning to resign upon termination of the course of instruction,

(Source refused to elaborate on this subject and it is the opinion of investigators

that he was withholding information)

SOURCE:

The above information was furnished

b(iii)

(F-3)

3.

(C)

In June 1963,

one Manolo Artime, an anti-Castro leader, visited Fort

Benning, but the purpose of his visit was unknown

to Source as he did not go to see

Artime and had no association with him.

Source was later informed that the

21 to go

to

a training camp

in Nicaragua.

Source did not know who was

present at the meeting

with Artime,

but did learn later that several members of the Detachment agreed to

OlS1R30rION

DCSINTEL

*. File

DA, PS 568 5л!

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITISE SQURCES AND METHODS TVOLVED

PERLA MAY BE GO FORN SEA. I JUN 4. SECREAT

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTINO CETICE: 583163-247710

265

1963,5-2135

2x-470-63 'nCp.

---

## Page 3

SECRETE

SUBJECT:

Cuban Officer Training Program

(U)

DATE :

1 November 1963

resign in order to go to Nicaragua immediately following the completion of the

course of instruction

at Fort Benning which ended on 2 August 1963.

Source believes

the following individuals resigned due to the influence of Artime and have joined

his camp:

Pedro Acebo-Rodriguez, 2d Lt, C2 312 371: George M. Navarto-Rodriguez,.

2d Lt, C2 313 378; Jorge Lincoln Mas-Canosa,

Lamar-Maza, 2d Bt,

232 00 0 Cosa, 2016 1 312 at 1238 de de 352 885.

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by

b(ili)

(F-3)

4.

(C)

Source has heard of the existence of a group of officers in the Cuban

Officer Training Program who are considering resigning from the Progran in the near

future.

At LAFB, there are a number who are waiting

for the termination of their

English course to resign, while others plan

to turn

in their resignation after

arriving at a new station.

d Lt, C2. 31

397.

quate believes that the reason for their leaving as the they plan to trans

fer to Nicaragua,

or another overseas base,

in order to continue their fight against

Communist Cuba.

This group is in contact with Pedro Acebo-Rodriguez"and Antonio,

Iglesias-Pons, both of whom resigned from the Cuban

Training

Program upon completion

of the course at Fort Benning and who are in Nicaragua organizing anti-Castro regime

activities.

(This group' consists mainly of men who fought in the Bay of Pigs in-

vasion of Cuba)

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by

b (iii)

(F-3)

5.

(S)

There is a group within the Cuban Officer Training Program presently

undergoing training at LAFB who are

planning to submit their resignations upon

completion of additional courses.

One of these individuals is Ladislao George

Fernandez-Martinez, 2d Lt, C2 312 392,

The motive for presenting their resignations

is to go to Nicaragua and organize an attempt to overthrow Castro.

This group is

in contact through

correspondence with Pedro Acebo-Rodriguez and Antonio Eugenio

Iglesias-Pons, both of whom resigned the course while at Fort Benning in August

1963.

Fernandez is expecting

to hear from Manolo Artime"in order to submit his

resignation in late November and go to Nicaragua.

Artime revealed to Fernandez

details about his conference with Charles de Gaulle of France and Conrad Adenauer

of Germany.

Artime showed documents and pictures to Fernandez corroborating his

conferences with de Gaulle and Adenauer.

Artime told Fernandez that de Gaulle and

Adenauer have promised him help to establish a camp in Nicaragua for the purpose

of taking over Cuba.

Such help should start to be received by Artime after Novem-

ber 1963,

another officer who re-

signed from the program in August 1953 and now residing

Alberto Maleo Munia-Boris, 2& Lt, C2 312 400en Miami, wrote a letter

to Federico Garcia-Geli, 2d Lt, C2 312 393. LAFB, explaining his reasons for

266

---

## Page 4

SECE IT

SUBJECT: Cuban Officer Training Program (V)

DATE: 1 November 1963

resigning the program and requesting that the letter be circulated among the fel-

low officers of the class at LAFB.

The letter said that he (Muina) left the

course because many of the men who had applied for the various schools,

such as

the Intelligence and the Armored Schools,

were still at Fort Benning wasting time.

Also, Muina had applied for a demolition course and after he was

to go to the course,

the orders were cancelled.

placed

on orders

Muina did not like this and de-

cided to get out.

Source,

who knows Muina well, is certain that Muina is working

for or with Artime also.

Muina has indicated repeatedly to his friends and to

the officers undergoing the program that Cuba will not gain its liberty with the

assistance of the United States, but needs to look for help from another country.

Muina believes that the United States has decided to apply

the principle of co-

existence towards Cuba.

Muina also has stated that the United States Government

lacks the ability to understand the Latin American problens, and that he is going

to join Artime.

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by

(F-3)

(C) Rene Faustino Gomez-Figueroa, 2d Lt, C2 312 397.

Jimenez-R0j0, 2à it, us 312 439, 2-no were staduate 3 December 1905, are conten-

plating resignation, exact reasons unknown.

Of the officers who have resigned

with the intention of joining a group to defeat Castro, Source remembers Antonio

Iglesias-Pons who resigned recently.

Miranda-Hernandez has heard that Iglesias

is recruiting people in Miami to be taken to a camp in Nicaragua which is operated

by Manolo Artime.

to have gone to Nicaragua.

SOURCE:

The above information was furnished by

b (iii)

(F-3)

7.

(S)

Diego Emiliano Borges-Torres, 2d Lt, C2 312 431, is attempting to

find out if the ultinate purpose of the Cuban Officer Training Program is identical

to the program which is controlled by Manuel Artime to train people in Nicaragua.

Upon obtaining this information,

Borges-Torres is going to inform Source.

If the

plan is the same,

everyone in the program will immediately go to Nicaragua because

in Nicaragua the fight against Castro

is more imminent,

Help has been offered to

Artime by Somoza of Nicaragua and by de Gaulle of France, who apparently has

offered

the Isle of Martinique for the operations against Castro.

Manuel Artime

visited Columbus,

Georgia, a few months ago and spoke to many Cuban officers and

tried to recruit them as instructors to go to the camp in Nicaragua, Source was

not present at any of the meetings with Artime,

267

---

## Page 5

SECRET:

SUBJECT: Cuban Officer Training Program (U)

SOURCE:

The above information was furnished by

DATE: 1 November 1963

(P-3)

b (iii)

b(iii)

8.

(S)

There is a group of officers within the Cuban Officers Training

Program at LAFB who contemplates submitting their resignations if the United

States has not done anything for the freedom of Cuba by December 1963.

Many offi-

cers have indicated their desire to resign

in order to join Manuel Artime who is

supposedly organizing a training camp in Nicaragua.

Artime has some contacts

among the officers undergoing training at LAPB, and for a long time, these officers

have been undermining the present training program by spreading dissension among

their fellow officers.

These men also have developed. a recruiting campaign to

supply Artime with qualified leaders for the Nicaraguan camp.

Artime's recruiters

at LAFB are:

Diego Emiliano Borges-Torres, 2d Lt, C2 312 431; Ladisiao George,

Fernandez-Martinez, 2d Lt, C2 312 392;

Conrado Caballero-Acosta, 2d It, C2 312 352.

Borges-Torres is the chief represen-

tative of Artime at LAFB.

He has made several trips to Miami recently and has been

spending much money.

He also has an expensive apartment in San Antonio, Texas,

which he shares with Fernandez-Martines.

Next in command in the above group is

Fernandez-Martinez,

Carrazana has stated to Source that he intends to submit his

resignation in December 1963

to

join Artime.

¡Antonio Iglesias-

Pons will be the man in charge of the of the training camp in Nicaragua.

It is

being rumored that a Latin American country is going to buy planes from England

and make them available to Artime.

It is also rumored that contacts exist with

France, but Source does not know if they are with the Franch government or with

private enterprises.

The Somoza regime in Nicaragua has also promised assistance

• to Artime in the forthcoming operations against Communist Cuba. In early August

1963 while at Miami, Fernandez-Martinez offered Source $500 i£

b (iIi)

Source was told by one

At LeD, at Lui a Carna der-Bros, vate 622 450, has submitted his resig-

Ensign, 672 450,

has submitted his resig-

nation

In Source's opinion, Borges-Torres persuaded

Fernandez-Barrios to resign.

SOURCE: The above infornation was furnished by

b (iii)

(F-3)

268

SECRET:

---

## Page 6

SECRET:

SUBJECT: Cuban Officer Training Program (U)

DATE: 1 November 1965

received no Nave te De 19332258, 3620E 55105453-Pons ,

currently in Miani,

The purpose of the call was apparently to persuade

Blanco-Navarro to resign from the Cuban Officer

Training Program and join the

camp of Artime in Nicaragua.

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by

b(lil)

(F-3)

Gonez-Figueroa

to the Liaison Officer, 3628th SS, LAFD, on 28 October 1963.

and Fernandez-Barrios submitted letters of resignation

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by

b(iii)

(B-3)

269

SEONE

---

