# 195-10005-10020

## Page 1

195-10005-10020

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/16/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

OSD

195-10005-10020

MCNAMARA PAPERS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: OSD

FROM: BRIG. GEN. LANSDALE

TO :

SPECIAL GROUP (AUGMENTED)

TITLE: MEMORANDUM FOR THE SPECIAL GROUP (AUGMENTED)

DATE: 07/25/1962

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

ECONOMIC RESTRICTIONS - CUBA

COVERT ACTION - CUBA

OPERATION MONGOOSE - PHASE I

POLITICAL ACTION - CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

• COMMENTS :

McNamara Papers, Box 86 (42), Mongoose (Cuba). Memo from Lansdale to Special Group

(Augmented) re: review of Operation Mongoose Phase I actions.

v9.1

NH 50955

DocId: 32423703

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TOP SECRET

[E]

b. Undertaking all other political, economic, and covert

actions, short of inspiring a revolt in Cuba or developing the need

for U.S. armed intervention.

c. Be consistent with U.S. overt policy, and remain in

position to disengage with minimum loss in assets and U.S. prestige.

d. Continue ICS planning and essential preliminary actions

for a decisive U.S. capability for intervention.

ACCOMPLISHMENT

Elements of the U.S. government were organized to reach the

goals set for Phase I. My assessment of where we are on each

objective is noted under appropriate sub-headings below. In general,

this has been a remarkably quiet operation, well within the "noise"

and "visibility" limits imposed.

Higher authority has been kept informed of progress through

the Special Group (Augmented), by frequent reports. The Special

Group has provided policy guidance, as required, in Phase I.

The Chief of Operations bas coordinated the efforts of participa-

ting departments and agencies, through meetings of the Operational

• Representatives and by constant review of progress. The Operational

Representative of each major U.S. participant in Operation Mongoose

are William Harvey (CIA), Robert Hurwitch (State), Brig. Gen. Benjamin

Harris (Defense), and Don Wilson (USIA).

My assessment of the organization, planning, and actions to

• reach the goals in Phase

I:

Intelligence. ClA had the main assignment to acquire the

"hard-intelligence" desired. The headquarters and field staff of CIA

are now well organized for a major effort for this aspect of Operation

Mongoose, being strengthened by a number of CIA officers experienced

in "denied area" operations elsewhere in the world. Planning and

actions rate superior, in a professional sense of intelligence collection.

CIA established the Caribbean Admission Center at Opa-Locka,

Florida, and an interrogation activity in Spain. It undertook a priority (exe)

2

TOP SECRET

HH 50955

DocId: 32423703 Page 2

---

