# 198-10006-10014

## Page 1

198-10006-10014

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: ARMY

RECORD NUMBER :

198-10006-10014

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CALIFANO PAPERS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

CIA

CIA INTELLIGENCE ANNEX

DATE:

PAGES:

00/00/1963

5

SUBJECTS:

CUBAN PROPAGANDA

LATIN AMERICA

TRAVEL TO CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Califano Papers, Box 4, Folder 6. Intelligence report outlining travel to and the movement of

propaganda from Cuba.

JFK Reved

Authortty_

v9.1

NW 50955 DocId: 32423829 Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

Mour 1

from automatial

sading and

acclassification

SECRET

ANNEX

CIA Intelligenco Annex

1. Travel to and from Cube

Erast

Chartered Cubana Airlines flights between Cuba and

Brasil bave becone a major meane of transporting non-Cuban

Latin Anericans to and from Cuba.

The five such

flights since

late July have carried nearly 400 non-Cubans.

The first of the recent series - on 25 July • brought

71 Latin American passengere to Havana for the 26 July celebra-

tions.

The other four flights - on 15, 22, 28 and 29 August -

transported over 200 Latin Americans to

Brazil fron Havana.

Sone of the aircraft involved zeturned to Cube wich smaller

mumbers of passengere. Many of che 200 Lacin Anerican passengere

had been delegates to the 26 July ceremontes,

but others bad

apparently been ta Cuba for longer periods and some had probably

received training there.

Of the passengers on these four flights

to Brazil, 75 were natives of Caribbean area countries. Theix

circuitous traval through Brazll was evidently designed to help

conceal the

Fact that they had been in Cube.

Costa Nica

Two Costa Ricans were among the passengere on a

chartered Cubana plane which wa turned back to Havana at Grand

Caynan on 11 July 1963, One vas Luz Marine Hernandez Salazar,

the only Costa Ricen wonan known to have been sent to Cube for

training as a guerrille warfere instruetor.

She had been in

Cuba since September 1962.

The other Costa Rican passengor was

Carlos Guillen, former head of the Costa Rican Society of

Priends of the Cuban Revolusion, who had been in Cuba since

Hovenber 1962,

Ecuador

The CIA Station 1a (uito reporcs that the military

junta, which conned power in Ecuador on 11 July, can be expected

SECRET

J0950

D001d: 32423629 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

to follow the guidance of the Embassy

10

controlling travel to and from Cuba and the Soviet blos

The

activitles of Cuban subversives in Ecuador, at least for the

present, have been greatly inhibited by the mass arrests of

Commmiete and pro-Cubane and by the outlawing of the Communiet

Party by the junta.

Honduzze

It le reported that the Honduran Conmuniet Party hos

Lesued ordere to les membess not to atcempt to cravel to Cuba

at the present time.

Thle acclon 1s

apparently the result of

the increasing vigilance of the lionduran goverment and the

greater implementation of atricter travel controle.

2.

Novenent of. Cuban Pierarenda

Cun tena la

According to an uncontimed report received in July,

• Bureau of Infomation of the Commniot Party of Custenala 10

being formed ta collaboration with Prense lating and le to be

managed clendestinely.

It expects to receive news by shortave

radio from Cuba and

print bulletins for distribution by sadie

stations. This nay indicate a pattern by which Prensa

Latina

wIll attempt to distribute on a more clandestine baate In other

azens in Latin Anertes:

Honduras

It sas rollably reported that in mid-July 1963, a

anall constal freighter landed 14 large boxer of Conniat

propagands on the northern coast of londure, the boxes having

bean cronsferred at son from a larges vessel.

3.

Movenent of Guerrillas and Are

Argentina

Entrendot members of the Peroniot Party, apparently

under the leadership of such figures as Hector Villalon and

Jobn William Cooke, are apparently receiving encouragement and

promises of large suns of money fron Cube in support of their

efforte to traia and organize subversive gicups in Argentina.

SECRET

J0953

Do01d: 32423629

Page

---

## Page 4

Villalon has etated that his plan calla for expending and

accellerating subvercive sctivitios in Argentina culminating

In a complote take over wichin to years. Thote le no Indica-

tion that Peron himself hao agreed to this plan.. Ic has been

reported that leaders of the Commist Party of Argentina have

been greatly annoyed by the tendency of the Castro regine to

support the revolutionazy Peroniets without baving consulted

- Che Comunts& Party of Argentina,

It is reported that the dorcalled Any of fettonal

Liberation (AN) of Argentina, which is a relativoly anall

Castrolot organtzation direeted from Cuba by John Willian Cooke,

has in recent wents been negotiating for the purchase of sims

and has been offered submachine guns, basookas and other weapone

by two or three private supplers. It me reported, however,

that the AM was having difficulty getting enough dollaze from

Cuba to make eignificant purchases poseible.

Bolivia

The Bolivian Miniotzy of Foraign Relatione on 23

August protested formally to the Cuban Chargô d'Affaires in

La Paz against the Cuban Inbanny support to the niners during

the recent criots.

Subsequently, hovever, Forelga Minister

Fellman Informed the Cuban Charge that he need not fear that

the Coverment of Bolivia would break Aplomatic relations with

Cuba. There has, in fact, been no hard intermatton linking the

Cuban Embassy with the present mining criets in spite of sone

uncontired reports of Cuban support.

Cuban Ambassador to Brazil, Raul ton Kourl, 1e reported

to bave atteupted to encourage peasent: league leader

• Francisco

Jultao to revitalize the lesgues in norchern Brazil. According

to sona reports efforto are being made to unity the leadership

and bring dissident elemote under the general direction of

• Jultao,

Other reports indicate that, Alchough the Cuban Enbassy

1s provtding guidance and possibly finencial support to the

movement, t

had not yet resolved the internal dissension in

the Leagues.

Cold 34a

SECRET

J0953

DocId: 32423829 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Colombia

Trom Colonbia reports have been zecelved of incrensing

Cuban asiatance, primarily in tho form of training courses by

instructore uno have boen trained in Cuba, to the Worker-Student-

Peasant: Movement (MCC), A anall guerzille band encountered

by the colombian amy ta July 1963 we broken up when Live

menbers of the band were killed and the others captuzed. A

small quantity of arus and a considerable amount of books and

pamphlete on revolutionary vastare, photographs of Midal Castro,

Cantlo Clonfuegos and Uno I80 tung,

and bullecins of the MEC

were found at the camp eite.

Recent seports have indicated an

Increase in the terroriat efforto of the MOSC and Increased

promises of ascletance

Ezon Gho Guevaza with regard to the

maining of adaicional MORC members.

Conco Ries

In mid-July an lacrensed mmber of guerrillas were

reportedly being emined in Costa Rica by Adolfo Careta Barberena,

vell-knom Vicaraguan revolutionary lender and member of the

ILl Cational Iberation Front - a Comunist doninated, Cubar»

supported, ent scaragus revolutlonary group. "I carly

Auguet, Alberto Serrato, leader of the ILl 1m Coste Rica,

loit

mich s

group of Nicaraguans for the Coate Ricau-Nicaraguan

border.

The purchase of cans and supplies and the recrittent

of Nicaraguans for a movanent agatnot Micaragua are also reportedly

underusy in Costs 4408,

Rector Bogances Zenora, Costa Riean agitator, left San Jose

In mid-August for the Nicaraguan border to supervise the passage

of Nearaguan guerrillas from Costa Rica into Nicaragua.

Bogantes, who recently returned from attending the May Day

celebracione ia Cuba,

was assigned this responsibility by the

Costa Rican Commutst Farty:

Honduzae

The Honduran anued forces began to move against a group

of pro-Castro guerrillas operating againet the Nicaraguan Govern

ment and active in the vicinity of the Illcaraguan Honduran border.

The Nicaraguan National Guazd hag been conducting operations

on ice side of the border against the insurgente alaco July.

The dense jungle and difficult terrain, however, will impede the

efforts of both forces to eliminate the guerzillad.

N 70953

Doold:32423829

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECELY

ab-.

Information on the guerrille force le scanty and

confleting®

It is apparently composed of members of the Natlonal

Liberation Front (FLN), a Communist-donnated and Cuban-supported

ravolutionary organization ective primarily in Honduras and

Nicaragua since the fall of 1962.

The strength of the force

1€ not known.

Neera gue

A captured guerrilla of the ILI (National liberetion

Trent - d Communist-dominated, Cuban-supported, antf-Nicaraguan

group) confessed that he was a member of a group of 46 who

entered Nicaxagua from Honduvas on 22 July, He said thee cheir

mission was to establish a base camp in the Isabelle mountaine,

Department of Jinotegs, in order to indoctrainate the peasante

and to crain them in guerrilla tactics. He aduitted chat he

had

received six months' guerrilla warfare training in Cübe and

that

other TIl leaders had received similar training.

He aloo

said thet the FLN training camp in Honduras wao near Bl lagarto,

on the Fatuca River.

4. Transfer of Funds

120162 63802

In British Culana,

Gulana Import-Export Corporation

(Gimpex) received • one willion dollar advance payment deposited

by the Cuban Alimpex Corporation for goods to be delivered to

Cube in the future.

Gimpex has, in tum, loaned this money to

the Government of British Guiana, Cheddi Jagan's People's

Progressive Party is the major stockholder in Cimpex.

Moharmed

Kassim, Manager of Gimper, has indicated that Gimpex will be

able to secure additlonal loans fcon Cuba in anounto sufficient

to tide the Jagan government over any foreseeable crists. It

mo aleo reported that Gimpes plans to buy aircraft, spare parte

and other wachinery in the United States for reshipment to Cuba.

General

Reports continue to be received from many places indicating

that the suitcase full of currency to still one of the most

common methods used by the Cubans foz transmitting

funds for

use in supporting subversive nctivities throughout the henlaphere.

Instances where such funds have been conflacated by the police

have occurred recently in El Salvador, Panama and Ecuador.

J0953

Doold: 32423829 Page &

---

