# 198-10004-10207

## Page 1

198-10004-10207

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: ARMY

RECORD NUMBER:

198-10004-10207

RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ARMY

FROM: JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.

TO: MR. JOHN H. CRIMMINS

TITLE:

INTERDEPARTMENTAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF CUBAN AFFAIRS: REPORT ON

THE STATUS OF ACTIONS DESIGNED TO COUNTER SUBVERSION

DATE: 01/10/1964

PAGES:

62

SUBJECTS :

COUNTERINSURGENCY

CUBAN SUBVERSION

LATIN AMERICA SECURITY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IC

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/07/1997

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Califano Papers, Box 6, Folder 10. Army memo from Joseph Califano to Mr. Crimmins on status of

actions to counter Cuban subversion in Latin America with other related documents.

JFK Assassination Records Revier

Department of the Army EO 13820

Deolesalty → Exclude D Exempt

Authority

- Refer To.

Review Dare 612/2015 By KenéStover, ADA

V9.1

NW 50955

DooId: 32276192 Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Lt Col Haig/78029/8 Jan 64/md

1 QUAN 1964.

1904

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. JOHN H. CRIMMINS

Coordinator of Cuban Affairs

Department of State

SUBJECT:

Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban

Affairs: Report on the Status of Implementation of

Actions Designed to Counter Subversion

Enclosed berewith in the Report on the Status of Implementation

of Actiona Designed to Counter Subversion for the period 1 December

1963-1 January 1964. The format of this report adheres to the topic

outline disseminated at the meeting of the Subcommittee on Subversion,

September 13, 1963.

It is requested that thin office be provided with 12 copies of the

final report. It is assumed that each of the representatives will have

an opportunity to consider the final report before it is forwarded.

OSA

353-CUBA

1/10/64

FW

1/30/63

Signed

Joseph A. Califano, Jr.

Joseph A, Califano, Jr.

General Counsel

Enclosure

As Stated

Mr. Califano

It Col Haig

ASC

OSA. ASC. CONTROL NO. 3 05/=D.

SECRETI

DOWNGRADED AT 3 VEER INTERVALS:

DECLASSIFIED AFTE.! 12 YEARS

DOD DIR 5200.10

NH 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF ACTIONS TAKEN

SY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO

COUNTER SUEVERSION FOR THE

FERIOD I DEC 63 - 1 JAN 64

3. Control of Clandestine Movement of Guerrillas and Arms,

a. General A. P. O'Meata, USA, Commander-in-Chiel, US

Southern Command, met with Vice Admiral Ray C. Needham, USN,

Chief of Staff to Commander-in-Chief, Atlantie and morobero of their

repostive statio during the period 1l to 15 December 1963. Diacus-

siono encompasaed methode of improving the esdating auzvelllance/

Intercept system throughout the Caribbean. Exiating US plans were

revlewed, continuance of the ahip visit program inatituted in Neven-

ber 1963 was agreed upon, and combined exercises to test country

capabilities to intercept simulated intruding shipe were planned for

carly executior. Drecasiono by General @'Meara were continued

with the Socretary of the Army and with representatives of the State

Department, CLA and the Joint Stall, Joint Chiefs of Staff.

b. Commander Mine Dividion 44 with minesweepere USS

STURDY and USS SWERVE completed visite to Central American

ports in Costa Rica, Nicarague and Guatemala. Deficiencice in the

capabilities of all threo countrica to counter subveroive inflltration

wore reported. Additional visits, designed to assist in correcting

deficiencies, are planned. USCINCSO aleo plans, through Commandere

•f U8 Military Groups, to assist in developing existing capablities.

C. Based upon information from CAS Panma representative

on & November, USCINCSO directed US operatione to find a small

boat which reportedly left the Colon Fred Zone with a cargo of arms

destined for the vicinity of the Colombias-Venezuolan border. Day-

ligh& vioual aerial survelllance lights were Instituted immediataly,

with radas-equipped aircraft taking over surveillance during hours

of darmess.

Colombian and Venezuelan anthoritica were notified

through Us diplomatic channels, but no direct communications

between US surveillance aircraft and Colombian forces in the

vicinity of the probable landing area were established before termi-

antion on 14 November, This effort, though not successhal, bar

evoked considerable effort by US State Department, Defense Depart-

ment and CIA activitiee to improve capabilities and procedures.

SUDI

DOWAGRALD AT B'TAR INTERVALS:

DECLASSIFIED AFTER 12 YEARS

DOD DIR 5200.10

NN 70953

DocId: 32276192 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

d. Action wae commenced in she Colon arca to provide means

to keep track of shipo and boate entering or leaving the Colon Free

20n8 in order to monitor the movements of those suspected of carrying

contraband Assistance to USCINCSO was provided from the contimenta)

United States in carzying out curvoye ao to equipment required on ad

secretive a basio an possible, and special optical equipment to include

probable night televiion wae approved by the Seezetary of the Army

fos expedited delivezy to USCINCSO.

•. A joint survey and mobile sraining team from USCINCSO

continuod assistance to Venozucian authorities in improving indi ganone

capabilities for survellence and intercepsion of intrudero.

4 US Southern Command Operations Plan 50-63 was developed

to provide for three levels of operational aosistance to Venesuela in

curveillance and intercept e paradione. Representatives of the US Strike

Command and the Air Defense Command viaited USCINCSO to aeriss in

developing detailed eupporting plana.

intormation was obtained by USCINCSO concerning is-country

communications capabilites of Colombla sad Venezuela to recoive and

diaseminate nurveillaaco information provided by US forces.

5.

Strongthoning of Countertaagency Gapabiltes.

US Army training included the following: 13 etudente from 6

countries completed Cl operationa coures la the Canal Zone; & studento

from 5 countrics completed CI orientation course in the Canal Zone;

24 studento from & countzica completed Military Intelligence course

in the Canal Zone, Il Chilesa studento completed special Military

Intelligence ortentation course, thrce Canal Zone-banod Ci Moblle

Training Teamo (ATT) carried out traising programs in Ecuador.

Pozu and Venezuola, and one Canal 2000-based CI MTT commenced

• *raining program of Panamanian National Guardemen.

b. US Navy training included the following:

(1) The Small Craft Inspection and Training Team

(SCIATT) completod tralaing the third cinos of Central American

nationals, bringing to 63 the total numbor of studento trained sines

May 1963.

SECRET

50955

DocId: 32276192 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

(2) The semiannunt maintenance chock of two

Panamanisa 40 foot Coost Guard Utility Boats (CCUBe) wad com

monded on 16 December by an on-the-job training (OJT) progzam.

Work should be completed by 10 January 1964,

(3)

Work was temporarily suspended on two 40 foot

COusa ln Coste Rica due to the loch of critical epare parto. It la

anticipated wok will be completed by 15 January 1964.

Increasca in the stoch levels of the Canal Zone stockpile

of riot control eguipment were directed on 20 December 1963, In-

creases will enable USCINGSO to respond to urgent requeste fron

Katin American goveronents. Buildup concerned primarily tear

goo grenades, gas macka, carbince and ahotgun ammunition.

Final arrangemento were made with the Bertram Boat

Company of Miami for delivery of 10 outboard-inboard fibet glasa

boato to Cabamis,

Veneruela for use in the Lake Maracaibo ares.

Boats, spares and an MTI will be dallvered to destization by

14 Jamary 1964-

* Action has bean taken to expedite the sbipment of radio-

clectronic gear to Jamaica for une in the joint surveillance program

deoigned to combat Castro-Inspired Insurgency in the Garibbean

are?. Equiprent ahould arrive i3 Jamaica within the next few wecks.

%. A US Air Force Air Commando MTT demonstrated in

Acuacion, Fazaguay.

B. Other Special Actions+

a. Latin American Military Communicatione System (LAtiCE)

in Ecuador and Nicaragun and the Ground-to-Air focilities in Ecuador

have been completed.

b. Authority to proceed with the LAMCS in Honduras was

received from the US State Department on 17 December 1963. Thia

facility should be completed within 120 dayo.

c. Emergoncy power unite to improve reliabllity of US Army

and Air Force Minsion radio statione in Colombia and Venozuela,

chipped from the United States, arrived in Bogota and Caracaa 700-

pectively.

SECRET,

NH 50955

Doold: 32276192 Page

---

## Page 6

A

S

S

A

353

CUBA

G. SECRET

091.411

020

Staff

031.2

JCS

201

Reynolds, John

1-2-63

From: John Reynolds, &CS

To: C/Staff

Subj: Interdepartmental Coordinating Comte of Cuban Affairs: Rpt on Status of

Implementation of Astions Designed to Counter Subversion (U)

Iw Incl: None

Dis: Colo Haig 1-3-64

FW 1-30-63

OSA 3004

...

OSA

353

Cuba

1-2-63

FW 1-30-63

OSA FORM 3

31 MAY 49

THIS PAPER BELONGS TO:

Administrative Support Group Division, Office of the

Secretary of the Army

* U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1963-683865

NH 50955

D001d: 32276192

Page 6

---

## Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

SAOGC/LtColHaig/1c/ 59856/18Dec63 •

December 18, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR COLONEL WADE ROBERT

Office of the Secretary of Defense

(International Security Affairs)

SUBJECT:

State Paper Entitled "Terrorism in the Latin

American Countries on the Critical Insurgency List"

Enclosed herewith in a paper prepared by a member of the

Cuban Coordinating Committee at the Department of State (Mr.

William Bowdler, 182-3736) for use by the Department of State

representative at the Special Group (Counterinsurgency) meeting on

December 19, 1963. The paper was provided to this office by State

on December 18 with the request that Department of Defense

comments, particularly on the basic memorandum, be obtained.

Although this office is very much concerned with the aspects of the

paper which deal with the problem of Castro-inspired subversion,

the broader implications of the paper pertain to the Latin American

area and the military assistance programs related thereto. These

are, of course, matters of primary concern to your office. There-

fore, the attached paper is forwarded to you for appropriate action

with the request that your commente, if any, be coordinated with

this office so that they can be correlated to actions currently under

the purview of this office.

Signed:

A. M. Haig

It Colonel, USA

General Counsel

Enclosure

As Stated

OSA, ASG

Mr Califano

ItCol Haig

CONFIDENTIAL

NH 50955

DocId: 32276192 Page 7

OSA

353

CUBA

2-18-63

FW

1-30-63

---

## Page 8

CONFIDENTIAL

SAOGC/LtColHaig/1c/59856/18Dec63

December 18, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR DIRECTOR, DDRE

Office of the Secretary of Defense

SUBJECT: Anti-Sabotage Operations in Latin America

The Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban

Affairs (ICCOCA) has recently considered

to provide

guidance to US firms in Latin America confronted with

Castro-

communist inspired sabotage of their facilities and assets.

has

contracted for the preparation of a report which will consolidate the

experiences of several US firms in Latin America in combatting

sabotage. After consideration by the ICCOCA this report will be

furnished through our country teams in Latin America to local US

firms to assist them in instituting appropriate anti-sabotage programs.

I would be most exateful if vou would prepare a brief report

designed to supplement

which would include enumera-

tion of general guidelines which might be adopted by US firms in the

Latin American area in combatting sabotage. In particular, an

enumeration of known appropriate anti-sabotage devices available on

the commercial market together with the manufacturer's names would

be most helpital:

A member of ray staff has discussed this project with Mr.

Phelps of your staff, who has indicated that DDR&E might be of assist-

ance in this matter based on a recent field trip to Venezuela where

problems peculiar to that area were studied at the request of the US

Ambassador. It is also possible that commercial devices developed

for South Vietnam would have applicability in Latin America. Because

this project is designed for distribution to several Latin American

countries, it is requested that where possible guidelines be developed

which might have general application throughout Latin America, but

with emphasie on key subversive target areas. Present plans antici-

pate finalization of thie project by December 23, 1963.

signed:

A. M. Haig

It Colonels USA

General Counsel

OSA,

ASG

Mr Califano

LtCol Haig

J0953

Doold: 32276192 Page 8

CONFIDENTIAL

353

CUBA

12-18-63

FW 1-30-63

---

## Page 9

SECRETI

.87

Ded iSos

MEMONANOON FOR

30331C1

ME. JOHN H. CRIMMINS

Coordinator of Cuban Attairs

Department of State

Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban

Altairs:

Report on the Statos of Implemestation of

Actiona Designed to Gounter Sabrersion

Enclosod hermith is the Roport on the Stato of lapiamentation

of Actions Designed to Conster Subversion for the period I November

1 December 1953. The format of this report adheren to the topic out-

Une diesominated at tho mectlng ai he Subcommittee on Subversion,

Septerbor 13, 1963.

It is requented that this office be provided with la copies of the

unal report.

It is abouned that cach of the representatives will have

an opportunity to

consider the linal repozt before it is forwardod.

Signed

Joseph do Calilano, Jr.

Joseph A. Callians, Jr.

Goneral Coannel

Enclosure

Ao Stated

Mr. Califano

Lt Col Haig

ASG.

RECUELVEA OF JHE VEHA

OLICE

D 17:2 10 YEARS

DOD DR 0800.30

OSA, ASG Controi No. 29156

NH 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 9

OSA

353

CUBA

12-17-65

1-36063

1-30-63

---

## Page 10

SECRET

STATUS OF IMPLIMENTATION OF ACTIONS TAKEN

BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO

COUNTER SUBVERSION FOR THE

PERIOD 1 NOV - 1 DEC 1963

3. Control of Clandestine Movement of Guersillas and Arms.

a. On 9 November 1963 the Commander-in-Chief, U8

Southern Command (USCINCSO) advieed the Joint Chiefs of Stafl

(JCS) of reports concerning suspected subversive arme emuggling

Into Venezuela o1 Colombia from the Colon Frce Zone, Paname.

USCINCEO initlated surveillance at first light on $ Noverbes 1963

to detect and track curface

veseels which might be engaged in the

nubversive tratic. The Jes directed the Commander in-Chief,

Atlantic (CINCLANT) to commence survelllance with radar equipped

aircraft and to keep USCINGSO advised of all information. Sue-

pectod craft were not poaltively identified or intercepted; however,

there were indications that an unidentifled surfece reasel olf the

Rio Hoche area of Colombie and in Colomblan watere was probably

in contact with amall boate oporating from the Colombian coastline

at night.

D.. An directed try the Jolat Chiefe of Stall, USCINGSO

developed a plan under which the United States could provide assist-

ance to Venesuelan forces, on throe levele of participation: designed

so prevent the surreptitious movement of Castro-Coramunist arme

and personnel into Venezucla. To be fully effective, the plan calle

for US elemente operating from Venezuelan territory which is not

conaidozed a likely subject for approval by the Government of

Venezuola at the present time.

c. A joint survey and mobile training toam of eleven men waa

provided by USCINCSO to Venezuela on 22 November 1963, upon

approval of the concept by the Government of Venenuela. The purpose

of the team lo to train Venezuelan military personnel in organizing

and operating a joint operations center; in Improving capabilities

in the plotting and coordination of latelligence data, and aerial photo-

graphy; and in coordinating all Venesuclan military and paramilitary

oxganisations involved in surveillance and intercept operations.

SECRET

DOWNGRADED AT 5 YEAR INTERVALS

DECLASSIFIED AFTER 12 YEARS

DOD DIR 5200. 10

NH 50955

DocId: 32276192 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

5.

itrengthoning of Counterineuxgency Capabilities.

Two mineoweepere from the US Atlantic Command, USS

STURDY and USS SWERVE with Commander Mine Division 44 cm-

barked, commenced a achedule of visite to Caribbean ports in Costa

Rica, Nicaragua and Guatemala. Visite are intended to assist each

country in improving ite coastal and off-shore purveillence effort,

to improvo intercept capabilities with reopect to the prevention of

infiltration of arms and subversive personnel through the countries'

territorial waters, and to eatablish procedures which would provide

for US cssistance in final Interception when requested. Visits in

November, under the supervision of USCINGSO, covered Puerto

Kimon, Costa Rica; Bluefieldo and Puerto Cabezas, Nicaragua; and

Puerto Barrios, Guatemala.

b, Seventy-cight Latin American officero, praviouoly en-

rollod, were in attendance during November at coursed otressing

counterineurgency conducted by the US Army Canal Zone school.

Two officers graduated from the US Army Counterineurgency Couxse

at Fort Bragg, North Gazelina on 12 Novembes 1963 and two addi-

tiorni officers are now in attendance.

Seven US Army Counterinsurgency Mobile Training Teame

based in the Canal Tons, connieting of twenty officers and thirty-five

enlisted men, provided training in seven Latin American countries

during November.

d. Nine enlisted men from Chile were in attendance at

Marine Corpo ochoole at Camp Pendleton, Califorala la November:

€. US Coast Guard training in small boat operations was

provided in the Conal Zone for fifteen students from five Caribbean

coantries in the operation and maintenance of forty-foot Coant Cuard

utility boats, A Coast Guard mobile training tearn of one officer and

two enlisted men, based ln the Canal Zone, provided training in

Costa Rica fos the roconditioning of Goast Cuard utility boate.

Five

members of the Costa Ricon Guardia Civil are roceiving on-the-job

training in connection with reconditioning of the boats.

SECRET

50955

Doold: 32276192

Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECRET

1. A US Air Vorce countertneurgency toam of five officers

and eight enlisted men, based in the Canal fone, provided treining

for Ecuadorian Als Force personnel in Ecuador.

8=

At the request of USCINED, and with the enthusiastic

support of the Venezuelan Government, a small boat program has

been initiated to provis security for the Lake Maracaibo region.

Arzangements have been made through the US Navy under Military

Credit Sales agreement for the manufacture of diz (6) 25-loot and

four (4) 31-foot inboard-outboard, fiberglose hull boata by Bortram

Boat Company, Miami, for delivery in December 1963 or enzly

January 196k.

* SEAL-trained Mobile Training Team (MTT) of

one officer and five enlisted men will be provided by the Navy and

will repost to the equipment supplier in time to become fully ac-

quainted with the boats by 15 December. The MTT will accompany

the boats to Venezucla and will romain up to two monthe la country

to provide necessary familierization training.

6. Exchange of Intelligence on Cuban Survelllence.

a: Upon recelpt of intelligence pertaining to suspected arms

amuggling froz the Canal Frce Zone, Panama into Colombia ox

Venezuela, the USCINCSO relayed thie information to Colorobia and

Venesuela by the Military Alerting System. The US Ambasador to

Colombia conveyed the information to the Government of Colómbia.

Colombias Navy and Air Force elements were assigned increased

survelliance miestone in the Caribbean coastal area of Colombla by

Colombian military authoritica and renults of their survelllance

activities were provided to USCINCSO by the US Military Group

Commandes In Colombla. The results of US air surveillance of

the expected route and landing area, undertaken by US Aiz Force

and Naval air clements were transmitted to the US Military Group

Commander in Colombia for paseage to the Colombian military

authorite,

b. The moter veesel BLUE STAR, of Panamanian regiatry,

was apprchended by Ecuadorian authoritico in November 1963 as

It was attempting the clandertine introduction of contraband articles

-33.

SECRET

Nt 70953

DocId: 32276192 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

lato Ecuador. Ship movement infermation had been provided to the

US Naval Attache Bogota by the District Intelligence Offleer of the

Fliteenth Naval District. There wao no apparent involverent of

Cuban arme os Cuban trained personnel in this instance.

Other Special Actions.

Construction ie now in progress on the Latin American

Military Communication System (LAMCS) in Cuito, Ecuador; the

terminl station la expected to be comploted in December 1963.

The station in Nicaragua la expected to be completed in carly

December 1963.

bo.

In reeponoo to a requeat by USCINCSO, action was taken

on 15 Novembez 1963 to expedite delivery of communicatione equip-

ment required to implemont a Jamaican integrated coastal eurveillance

system.

The ayotem wan originally opproved ao part of the $500

thoueand one -time grant of Military Assistance material directed

by the President in April 1963, but world-wide shortages of specifie

items thicatence to delay shipment in some cades until FY 1965. In

view of the urgency of this requirement, priorities were adjusted

to provide delivery by 1 January 1964, The itomo include:

12

3

AN/CRC radios and instaliation kite

AN/ARC 3 radios

AN/PSM 6

Wattmeter

€.

The Jolat Chiefe of Staff and the Offce of Public Safety,

State-AID, aze studying the poseibility of increasing the etock level

of certain items of Not Control Egulpment la the Ganal Zons, in order

to meet rapidly and effectively multiple contingencies that may occur

In Letin America, In the part, the sise of some requeste have nececil

tated shipment of certain items directly from the United States, with

resultant increase in coat and time.

USCINCSO had been anted for

hio recommendatione on eteck levele.

SECRET

70900

DocId: 32276192 Page 13

---

## Page 14

BNUSIO

2128 124

ENTIAL

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20301

INTERNATIONAL SECURITY AFFAIR$

2 DEC 1963

In reply refer to:

1-28596/63

MEVORAIDUM FOR MR. JOSPEH AX CALTEANO

b Jep/

THE GONERAE COUNSELg

DEPARIDENZ

08 7H00 ARV

SUCJECT:

Interdenartnental, Coordinating Cormibtee of Cuban AMalza:

Report on Status of Urplenentattos of Actlons to Counten

Subversion (U)

The enclosure to your Meno

anium llo: Bl, subject as above, dated

26 itovenber 1963, han been

receaved.

The report appeazs to be

corplete end app

for cutmieszon to the Frosident.

i.r

SIGNED

Frank K. Sloan

Beputy Assistant Secretary

augM7rCallane

DONNGRADED AZ 3 YIAR INIARVALS;

DECLASSIFIED AFIER 12 YEARS.

DOD DIR 5200.10

CONFDENTIAL

ZECUELVUR OL LHE VENA

DLICE

gec " 11Je iW,e3

OLycL

Coovolarnon & UECOSO

CIZbPLONED

ASG

NH 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 14

OSA 353

Cuba 12-2=63 f/w

1-30-63

---

## Page 15

SECRET

26 NOV 1963,

bant to binet don

Deg Aost Sac/Ded ISA

(Bogional Attairs)

JOR CANERAL&. W. CARPENTDA, WA, USAN

SUBJECT:

Melerence:

Interdepartmotel Coradinating committee of Cuban Ailalen:

Neport on Statas of laplementation of Actions Desigaed to

Gouster Subversles 10)

Do More 104 cbject ao abovo dated doptember 19, 1963

Aetached herevith le A Anal draft of the Roport to the Precident of

tho Sabconmittee on Coban Fabrersion on Progress Made During September

1963 in Curbing

cubas Sharession it

Latin America.

It la reguestos that comments,

"any, bo provided the ottee ly

1800 henss, 1 December 1903, The Degastont ol Delenoe portion 0f

cabinet report lo baged on sabitoniona provided in renpuare to zeferenced

Signed

Joseph A. Califano, Jr.

Jeseph A, Calliano, Jr.

Conoral Gounsel

Baciomse

As Stated

CC:

Mr. Yarmolineky (OSD)

It Col Haig

Mr. Califano

ASG - -

OSA, ASG Control N0.25071

50955

DocId: 32276192 Page 15

FILE

SECRET

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

REGRADING

DOD DIR 5200.10 DOES NOT APPLY

O&A

Cuba

11-26-63

f/w

30-03

---

## Page 16

DRAVI

11/13/63

SECAST

BEPOET 02. JU5 SUB-CONNIZTEE

SNEAN SUEVERSIOE

ANCION TAKEN

DUSTS SELTUTER 1963 IN CURBING

CUBAN SURVERSION IN LATIN AMERICA

SECRET

---

## Page 17

SACRST

DRAFT

11/13/63

Control of travel to and Mrom Cuba

Depantment of state

a... lostzucted Enlasay Tunis to call to the actention

of the Foreign Ministsy our concern at increased evidence

of Lenpflot attempts to establish North Atrica routes to

Cuba, especially through Algeria, and our conviction that

Toniole has a valid case in tharting any Bloe civil air

penetration of Africa.

ba'". Instructed Inbassy Conakay to contact Quincen Govern-

ment ofsicials, reminding then of their past assurances

chat no Acroizo: Ilights to Cuba would be permitted to

use Conakry focilities, and to capress our concer at

recent indications that herollot was preparing to establish

service to Cuba via Conalery.

Inatructed Consulate Fort au France to Investigate

and report on alleged landing and refuelling of Gubana

aircraft at Cuadeloupe. Aleo double-checked directly

with the Shell Copany, the supplier of the fuel.

Instrucied Embassy Paria to query the French Govertment

about alleged Cubena use of the Cuadeloupe facility, and

to express out concera at this evidence of Cube's atrengt

to uce French Caribbean dependencies for flights to and

Iron

HH 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 17

SECRET

---

## Page 18

SECRET

Iron Latin America.

do. Inscructed Embassy No to make z new approach to

the fzazilian foreign Ministry to engress our concom

at Cuba's continuing use of "charter" flighte to Brazil

and the laxity of Irazilian ofticials in the control of

passengers. During the course of the wonth the bracillan

Coverent began tightening contzole against Sabana

211ght3. Specifically, all requesto for landing permiesion

were henceforth to be proceaned by the foreign Office,

with appespriate delays. Also tighter passenger, crew

and cargo controls were to be instituted shen & Cubana

Elight is penniited to use Brazilian facilities

e. Deterined that the U,k, had specifically warned

Cahma that no avincion fuel was avallable in Barbados and

that K1.G, wouid, In the fucire, respect Shell Company'®

decision to deny fueling to Cabana planes.

Continued later-Departmental afforte to provent

renuncion of ferry service between Cuba and the U.s.

which a British eltizen, Harold verber, has been attempt

ing to enzablish during the past soveral ponta.

STORE

ITH.

50955 DocId: 32276192 Paye 18

---

## Page 19

this

Instructed Consul Geozgetown to investigate and

report on evidence the Departuont received which indicates

chut Caba 1s planning to sell merchant vessels to British

Culana In order to Escilitate She establishment of

regular service for passengers and cargo.

Central Intellinence Arener

d.: In connection with the Seventh Congress of the

Internasional Inion (UIA) held in Fabana September 29

October 3, 1953

(1) encouzaged the

oppose

with the result that

(2) arranged

to

but encouraged the

at an

to

be hele

1A October;

(3)

SECRE

NW 50955 DOCId: 32276192 Page 19

---

## Page 20

(3) delivered a

memorandum to

concerning

which

supported

that the

continued to furnish

the Embassy wich data on

to the

Also induced

efforts.

These efforts

contributed to the

Ahea

began using the

intelated and obtained a

egreement for similaz

prior

to

The resulting

WW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 20

SEORIET

---

## Page 21

who sexe axpected to

Il. Control of l

NH 50955• DocId:32276192 Page 21:

---

## Page 22

III. Conkzor of Standostina Movement of Quercillas

and azus

Department of State

Made the necescary arzangements through Embassy

Tegucigalpa with the Coveriment of Honduras for the

dispatch of three U,s, bcllooptess to give logistical

assistance. to the Fonduran Army in its effort to locate

and eliminate the band of quercillas allegedly onerating

in the Fatuca River arce along the Honduran-Micaragunn

border-

BennEtInE OF Refense

Three 08-13 helicopters fron USSOUTaCON supported

Honduran arned forces conducting counter-nourgency

operations in the Patuca Rivar area. A total of 27 sortiee

were flow renalcing in delivery of 3029 pounds of supplles,

evacuacion of 12 sick Hoadurse soldiers; airlift of 19

passengers to polats in the oporational arca, 206

recovery of 400 pounds of supplies from the operational

ared

IV.

SECRETE

NN 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 22

---

## Page 23

SECRET.

Contzol of Transfer 0s Ende

Department eL state

#. Inetrusted Eabansy Manico City to infom the

Nestoan alzline SAESA that chels proposal to purchase

susplas Cuban aircraft would in fact result In the

accrual to Cube of a signifieant anount of hard curreacy.

and the U.S, would have to oppose the transsetion,

Furchers

11 dollars nore involved in the purchase

It would be a violation of the Cuban Assets Control

Regulaticas.

i. Intorned Departnent of Treasury, Foreign Assets

Centzol Office, of cho activities of Somondelp Enterprises,

a Miani fizz engaged in sending ronituances to persons

in Caba ia violation of the Caban Assees Control

Regulations-

c. Instructed Consulate,

Bellae to infoss

Mr. Richard doyce,

at Anericon pational, that his

commercial transactions with Cuba wore in violation

of tho Cubaz Assets Control Regulations and that ho

Is prohibited from engaging is anch trade.

V.

SECR

NY 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 23

---

## Page 24

V Secentchensen 86 Co8o2-1051

Repartnent of Patsuse

d. Thirteen Latin Anorican officers graduated fron

the counter insurgenty Operacious Course of the U.S.

Arny School for Intin Amnica in Sia Panana Conal Zone

on 20 Septenber. During che sonths, & total of 91 Lacin

American officors encolled in courses stressing counter

Insurgency at the Any Canal Zone school.

Right U.S, Amy counter-inougency mobile

training tees were providing training to the Armed

Forces of Live latin Anovican comtries during the period.

3.S. A1. Force coupter-Incurgoney Cralning teans vere

in two countries.

In the Canal Lone, 15 students from five countries

were under instruction in the operation of conot guard

utility pacrol craft used for constal survelllance.

S1x scudento from tuo counteies vere uniezgoing similar

training in the UnltedSScates

d. A S.6. Navy comter insungency training team

in 1a Votezuola to asciot in legroving the security

oê o11 inatallationa in lake Mazecuito.

€.

SHON

HH 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 24

---

## Page 25

€.

Coste Rica and Honduras sere provided one

Cessna 185 aircraft each for nedical clvic action and

Internal security purposes.

On May 25, 1963, three M435 FAMil belicopters

vera provided to che govermment of Colombia on a 90-day

loan.

The Colombian Coverment requested an extension

of tha loan and a 90-day extension has boon approved.

Gentzal Intell

ARREST

Ca &

trial baaiss

aze la process.

Negotiations

for che

continue with

Formation od

has agroed to fumist

vich am

One informacion is that Che

have provided the primary

evenues for

SOCKER®

HW 50955

DocId: 32276192 Page 25

---

## Page 26

SEONAR

• 10

VI. Bael

dE Intellinente on duban SubustaLon

Departant of Defense

lagineazing installation worl continued on radio

ecatione for Managus, Nicaragus and Tezuelgalpa,

Honduras. No further progress hes been nade in reaching

agranents wich Coloubia and Ecuador for rights to

establish radio stations in those countries.

Installazion

of the new trans-lothmian commercial cable in Panana

is zesring completion.

Goateal Intelligence

concizued Cheir enchange

of

Information with

Tbe

tollering ections are of epecial significance:

furnished the

vith

Information

quesced

that

02a

and rea

HM 50955

DocId: 3127 O8Zo Sage

but did not

bes not fele it feasible to try to remedy

this cutesion in glou of che

after

26

SECRET

---

## Page 27

SECREZ.

sit:

As & result of infomation

violations have been discovered in which

Tere le a reluctence, hovever, on the part

to prosecute this type

of violation.

At the urging of the

to campaign for a trio

has been offered, and has accepted, an opportunity

to suhe the trip

w11z be

don¢

Sm response so

the efforts

Sent

wheze he will

hes been

Gion opecifie

The

HN 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 27

---

## Page 28

SIEGREE

baa requested fron

any intornation that he night aurplg on

This sequeat has openod an

additional

Co the

hss bocn provided

with elsc

fron Fotruary through Anguse 1563-

This actlvity will be corrded out on & continuing baais;

Thas Tars at 103st

on the baste os the

has indicaced ito appzeciacion of

desieos that the arengenent bo

VIl.

RH 50955

DocId: 32276192

Page

28

contlauede

Survelllanse s1 Cuhan Dialeuatie, Comassdal and Cultural

LEnnLOaS

No spodial actions to repert.

VIL.

SESILET

---

## Page 29

13

VIII. Deset Special Actions

Undeed Stares Inforuation 42209z

2. The Agenoy"s press service tranenitted' soven

esticles zelating to Cuben subversion on its wireless

Ille service to JS1S offfoca throughout latin America

for placement in the local nevspapere.: Developments

zeported in chede articles included denanda by the zolivier

Senate for the ounter of the Cobm Chargé d'Affaires,

torzorian and goverment counteraction in Venezuela,.

the seizure in amador of as arms and explosives cache

reportedly roceived from Guba, sevaral articles on the

Incematlonal Union of Architects Congreso ie Babera

(emphasiaing the intent of the Castro zogina to use the

Congress as a forus for 1ta propaganda claimed, and

Asciocant Secretery Mnstin's los Angeles speech is which

he pointed ous the restne"s affinity for Chinese comunist

doctrine and its continued emphsois on violent revolution

and cubvazzion.:

In ally the press nervice tranenicted

21 arcicles and comentaries duzing Septenbes co the

subject of Cuba, the other articles dealing for the most

pact wich econonie and polielcal conditlons inside the

countzy as evidenced by the regina's ou adnissions and

the esports of zotugece....

HW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 29

---

## Page 30

SECE.EX

14

B. The Voice of America Spanich broadensto to latin

America during Septenbar corried a total of 20 neve

analysed, countaries, press round-ups, and intervieut

rotated so the subject of Cuban subversion.

Some of

the devaloonente troated includod the following:

A comertary on commmlot embassies as channels fos

subvezsion; e neve sablyais on the U.3. acudents vio

visited Cuba; Assistant Secrotary Martin's Los Angeles

specch; A naus apalysãs on Cuban subversion as an obstacle

In the noralization of U.s, Soviet relacious; a three

pazt nories on universisy autonosy in Latin Amrica;

@ feature on the lotter of a Coloublan stuécne vio

vent to Cuba an a scholazebig and una araillusioned by

the courier indoctrination; a comantary on the Guevara"s

recent article on revolutionary strategy; and i comuntary

os guccilla training in Cuba. Many of there icons vere

repeated several tinse in the brondcasts.. The "Rendezvous

with Cabal hour carzied ouz de fivo comtartes stua

Anss and interviess nightly on econonde and political

develoraente

Inside Cuba, CC apacial note, the Cabar

radio end Cestro hintola reacted angrily i Voice of

inceãea booadoaste about Che Cumasala article and so can-

Doncarles that Cube has accepted en agricoltural cole in

1H 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 30

tho

---

## Page 31

SECRAT

7 3.5

she coummise bloe and had postponod its plaus to

induserialize:

..

on septenber 27, the Agency issued e circuler

Instzuction so alllits Latin Anctican posts urging

greater attention to opportmities for publicizing Cuban-

scimulaced subversion, suggesting the vorious sypes of

informacion activities to support this offort, and requesting

monthly reports of Fleld actions taken to implenant the

This was done as a follou-up to the ociginal

Instruction on Cabon subversion which was issued Apell 3,

2963.,

Centant Lste21!

on & Sentanbor 1903.

in carly September 1969,.

ho Assletance vas given to

the

in commotion with

tiNe

in late

May 1953c

SUCRET

NH

50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 31

Only

---

## Page 32

SUORDE

16 *

Caly one of those

with she

angching cine that could be conctruad

The one vio

chlo person again at

later date.

arranged for an

interview Getreen

200 0

ducing which entensive inforacion regarding

SIaS

ravealed.

propared a seport containlag this data and

precented it co

which

has brer. slow to indicate concarn ovar

a rasult of this report,

to appolat

apocial comaisalon to arudy the problen

make zacoomondacions as to whut conroc

or notion should be taken

Should

nãen to proas for passage

ecronger

INH 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 32

---

## Page 33

SDOSET

17

e cronges

steps

bas talen

co propace

by planning

NH 50955

DooId:32276192

Page 33

---

## Page 34

SECRET

OSA

353

CUBA

29 October 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: THE GENERAL COUNSEL

SUBJECT: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs:

Report on Status of Implementation of Actions Designed to

Counter Subversion (U)

(U) The following information is submitted in response to Memo

randum No. 64, General Counsel, dated 19 September 1963.

2. (S)

Reference Topic 5 (Strengthening of Counterinsurgency

Capabilities):

a. Canal Zone -

(1) Fifteen students from six Latin American countries are

attendees in the ten weeks Counterinsurgency Operations Course of the U.S.

Army. School of the Americas which began 30 September 1963..

(2)

There are 24 students from eight Latin American countries

attending the 16 weeks Military Intelligence Gourse which began 23 August

1963.

b. CONUS -

(1) Three students from three Latin American countries are

attending the Special Warfare Course at Fort Bragga N. C.

Course at Fort Cordon, croren.

(2) One Peruvian student is attending the Civil Affairs

c. In the month of October 1963, eight Counterinsurgency Mobile

Training Teams (MTT) (14 Of{-48 EM) were deployed in six countries to

conduct counterinsurgency training.

d. A U.S. Army officer is attending the Conmand and General

Staff School of the Uruguayan Army and upon completion of this course in

December 1903, will be assigned to the OUSARMA, Uruguay. He will perform

intelligence advisory functions as an additional duty.

e. An additional officer has been assigned as assistant USARMA

in Guatemala, increasing the capability for intelligence assistance in

that country.

OSA. ASG. CONTROL NO. 2505A

Ря (т)

DOWIGRADED AT 12 YEAS INTENALS:

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200.10

SECRET

• te

2314854

KBY

Fift

50955 DooId: 32276192 Page 34

---

## Page 35

SECRET

OPS SW OP

SUBJECT:

version):

Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affaire:

Beport on Status of Implementation of Actions Designed to

Counter Subversion (U)

(S)

Reference Tople 6 (Exchange of Intelligence on Cuban Sub-

The number of intelligence exchange agreemente between the

V. S. Army and local military services in Latin America has been increased

to 13.

b. The additional officer assigned as Assistant USARVA, Guatenala,

raises the collection potential in that nation and may develop information

which can be exchanged with Latin American countries.

J. D. ALGER

Major General, GS

Assietant Deputy Chief of Staff

for Military Operations

for Special Operations

G. S. BLANCHARD

Colonel, GS

Director of Special Warfare

ODCSOPS

2

SECRET

50953

DooId: 32276192

Page

---

## Page 36

SECRET

Lt Col Haig/78029/290ct63/md

October 29, 1963

OSA 353-CUBA

10/29/63

MEMORANDUM FOR MA. JOHN CRIMMINS

Coordinator of Cuban Affairs

Department of State

SUBECT:

Interde inton the ate Come ting on

Latin Americans la the United Statea"

At a meeting of the Subcommittee on Subversion on October 10.

1963, the Department of Defense (DOD) Reprosentative was requested

to review and up date the DOD portions of pagee 4, 5 and 6 of nubject

report. Enclosed herewith ia a line in line out reviaion of the raport.

A revicion has also been made to page 7, which le designed to make

the DOD portions of the report current.

Signed:

A. M. Haig

It Colonel, USA

eNJoseph A. Callíano, Jr.

Cenazal Couneal

FW

1/30/63

Attachment

As Stated

se) Mr. Califano

) Lt Col Haig

ASGi

ZECHELVSA DE 1HT

ZECBELVIA OL THE VUNA

DEI 30

SECRET

01/100

EXCLUDED FROM

AUTOMATTC

PECPAOET

BRUNCHED

DOD DIR 5200. 10 DOLS NOID

COORDIALON & RECORD

30

11: 56 AM '63

SEE ARM"

NH 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 36

---

## Page 37

SECRET

DOD Revision to Paper Entitled

*Training of Latin Americann in the United States"

3. Milary Assistance Programe

At the presentime end of F'Y 63, 8,277 1791 Latin

American military studente are

were receiving. or are programmed te

peselse have received training in the United States under the Milltary

Mosiotance Programa.

Courses vary in length from two-week orientation

tonro to 83-week flying training cournes. However, the majority of

inetraction is for periode of less than sis months, and is distributed

in fielde as follows:

Flying Inotructioa (8-83 weeks)

472

154

Command, Staff and Operational

(direction and control of

armed forces, 4-23 weeka)

Communications/Electronica

(6-29 wooka)

768

638

66

36

Equipment Maintenance and

Repair (5-28 wecks)

336

23₴

Logtotics (2-14 weeke)

Adminietration (4-10 weeke)

Professional Specialized

(Engineering, Medical, Legal

ete - 4-20 weeka)

46

806

Orientation (2-3 weeko)

696

198

OSA. ASS. CONTROL 10 2494€

SECRET

=...

NH 50955

DocId: 32276192 Page 37

---

## Page 38

SECRET

7.

Dilcultion Encountered in Fulling Avallable Militazy

Quotos An the United States

The failure of Lotin American countries to take full advantage

'of military quotes offered has boen a persistent problem. In 1962, for

example, 15 per ceat of the quotas offered were unfilled. This unfavor -

able situation derives from many causes. Duriog to cureco ecal

yes l0 per dent of aniMed Army quotas have -boon due to danbilit; 40-

moOt cour pro-pogniciton, 13 per cent bocauso of lack-el cuffledent.-

funde, and-19 per-esat become eS poliieal spheavele, The arred forcen

of the average Latin American country are small, and the availability of

qualified candidates who can be sparod for extended periode of obligated

service and the lack of a professional non-comminaioned officer corpo

also tende to discourage the training of enlisted men in United States

schoolo, since large sume from limited budgets to train enliated men

who will remain in service only a brief time. Another significant

deterrent is the pos diem rates required by law to be paid by some

countries to sosvice personnel sent outalde tbeir homoland. in

Argentina, Bracil, Colomble and Uruguay the logal satee for person-

nel serving abroad are too high to be eupportable by defense budgets;

while in other countries, ouch as Bolivis and Paraguay, the standard

rates are too late to provide a rensonable living for atudente.

SECRET

NH 50955

DooId: 32276192

Page

38

---

## Page 39

CONEIDENTIAL

Octaber 19, 1963

SUBJECT:

74 FOR GENERAL LANGE G. WEBELEA (CS)

GAPTAIN L. & RUNWAIT, 1%, UON (OND)

MACK GENE. A ALCIS USA

BEAT ADMIAL W.I.A. WERE, 08N

MAJOR CENERAL J.W. CARPENTER, I. CRAS

BRIGASIEE CENERAL WILLIAM JONAS, 0OMC

Interdepartmental Coordinating Committse of Caban Altalgas

Report of Meeting of Subcommitice

on Sabvezston:

Cineulated horowith for Infosmation lo a report of the Scicboe

• 10,

1963 noting of subject cuboositi00,

Signed

_ Joseph A. Califano, J50

Jocogh A, Gallfans, JE.

Cooral Counsel

Alashmant

ho Statod

CC:

Mr. Yarmolinaky (OSD) - set

Mr. Calitano netans in

Lt Col Haig.

son canal

PEC9210!A0.

04.1EE

239.1111

01101

US.A

353

CUBA

10-19-63

f.W: 1-30-63

CONFIDENTIAL

NH 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 39

---

## Page 40

C

CONFIDENTIAL

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF THE ARMY

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

VESTOFA

October 14, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Meeting of Subcommittee on Subversion,

October 10, 1963 t

Outlined below is a summary of deliberations of subject sub-

committee during the meeting of October 10 at 1430 hours in Room

6273, New State. Agenda is at Tab A.

Agenda Item 1

The Final Subcommittee Report for the months of July and

August was circulated. The report has been circulated to points of

contact by separate correspondence.

Agenda Item 2

The Subcommittee discussed the SCCS letter which referred to

the recent trip of US students to Cuba. (Attached to enclosure l) It was

apparent to all that criticism of the US could be implied from this letter.

The Chairman stated he would provide the SCCS with the substance of

State's telegram 647, which outlines actions undertaken by the US

Government against the students.

Agenda Item 3

a. CIA. in coordination with

will prepare guidance data for distribution to Latin

America

which could be utilized br

for the pro-

tection of

The DOD representative

was requested to ascertain whether ARPA had available some commer-

cial protection devices which micht be applicable for use in Latin

America

The CIA representative stated be

believed ARPA had developed some devices for this purpose.

CONFIDENTIAL

NH 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 40

---

## Page 41

C

CONFIDENTIAL

b.. State will prepare a circular telegram to all Latin American

Ambassadors requesting that an immediate review of Country Team

Emergency and Evacuation Plans be conducted to insure that plans were

adequate to meet a stepped-up campaign of Castro-inspired sabotage.

Agenda Item 4

In lieu of a written report on the Honduran guerrilla problem,

the DOD representative proposed a firsthand report to the Subcommittee.

Colonel Walter Hutchins, who has recently returned from assignment as

US Military Attache to Honduras, presented a review of the subversion

situation in that country and then answered questions from the Subcom-

mittee.

The general thrust of Colonel Hutchins' remarks confirmed that

there has been considerable Castro subversive activity in Honduras. The

most serious inroads are achieved through communist radio and press

and communist educators. Colonel Hutchins commented that recent

guerrilla activity along the Nicaraguan border was probably limited to

groups totaling between 100 and 200 men. He emphasized that Cuban-

trained Honduran guerrillas are successfully transiting by air through

Grand Cayman Island and British Honduras with some transiting Havana

to Jamaica via Belgrade. In response to a query from a State representa-

tive, Colonel Hutchins pointed out that he believed that both Honduran

military and commercial interests were genuinely concerned with Castro

subversion and that some of their leaders were perfectly capable of

discerning the true nature of the communist threat to Honduras.

Agenda Item 5

The Chairman stated that the paper for training Latin Americans

in the United States (included in the "Krulak Report''*) was too broad in

scope for implementation by the Subcommittee and proposed that it be

rewritten under narrower parameters. In this regard, the Defense

representative was requested to review pages 4, 5 and 6 of the paper

on training contained in the report with the view toward bringing the

Defense portion up-to-date.

Miscellaneous

The Chairman stated that preparatory actions on the Isthmian

meeting at San Salvador tentatively scheduled for the second half of

November would be held in abeyance pending further developments in

the Honduran situation.

A. M. Haig, Lt Colonel, GS

*Report prepared by the Subcommittee on Castro-Communist Subversion

CONFIDENTIAL containing a series of action programs designed to impede the Castro-

Communist subversive effort in Latin America.

30955 DocId: 32276192 Page 11

---

## Page 42

C

CONFIDENTIAL

October 9, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Subcormittee on Cuban Subversion.

SUBJECT: Meeting of October 10.

You are invited to a meeting of the Subcommittee on

Cuban Subversion of the Interdepartmental Coordinating

Committee of Cuban Affairs to be held on Thursday,

October 10, at 2:30 P.M. In Room 6263, State Department

(ARA Conference Room) •

AGENDA

1. Consideration of draft of monthly report for September.

2. Discussion of letter (copy attached) from SCCS of

Pan American Union.

3• Status:

of papers on contingency planning.

4. Report by DOD on Honduran guerrilla problem.

5. Consideration of the paper on training of Latin

Americans in the United States.

CONF IDENTIAT

NH 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 12

---

## Page 43

-SPECIAL CONSOLTACDE COMMITTEE ON SECURITY

GOMISION ESPECIAL DE CONSULTA SOBRE SEGURIDAO

• CORDSSAO CONSULTIVA ESPEGIAL DE SEGURAMCA

COMMISSION SPECIALE DE CONSULTATION SUR LA SÉCURITE

PAN AMERICAN UNION

Washingiono.D.c..U.g.A.

Cableaddress: PAU WASH DC

October 1et., 1963

Six:

As you know, the Special Consultative Committee on Security 1s

presently holding the first of its regular mectings, in accordance with

the statutes approved by the Council of the Organization on April 23 of

this year.

For the botter fulfulment of its work, and in accordance with Article.

13 of thee statuted, the Committee intenda to request of the governments

of the member statas of the Organization any information that they may have

regarding apoctic activities of international communiom in thia hemlaphere.

Among the important activitias of this kiad are the trips that many

Individuala make to Cuba for well-know ulterior purposed. In thie connec

top, I should greatly approciate it if you would furnish the Committee with

whatover information your government may deem it advisable to present

rogarding the trip that a largo group of U.S. citicena recently made to Cuba

at the invitation of that country'e goverent, about which the Committee

has learped through nowspapor reports that have recontly appearad in thia

country and in Latia America, Thie Information would be treated with the

confidence that your govorment desmod approplate.

Thank you la advance for your valuable asslatance in this mattar.

Accops, Sir, the ansurance of my highest conelderation.

Jullo Casät Doig Sanchez

Chairman

Special Consultative Committee

on Socurity

Mr. Ward P. Allen.

Alternato Representativo of the United States

Council of the Organication of Amorican States

Washlagton, D. C.

NH 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 13

---

## Page 44

SECRETI

9 4 0CT 1963

OSA

353-CUBA

SUBJECT:

#. ZUMWALt, 1h, UEN (OSD)

MAJOR GENERAL 1. D. ALCER, USA

MEAN ADMIRAL. WENDS, USN

MAJCA CENTRAL J. W. CARPENTEN, IX, USAS

BRIGADIER GENERAL W. B. JONES, DaNG

10/14/63

Intezdapartmental Goozdinating Committee of Cuban Attairs:

Actiono Taben Daring July Augunt 1963 in Gurbing Cabar

Enbrorsion in Ladle America

Attached is the Goal report of the Subcommittee on Subversion on

Actiona Takes During July hugnet 1963 in Curbing Cuban Subversion in

Latin Amories.

FW

1/30/63

Signed

Joseph A. Califano, Jr®

Joscph & Calitase, J%.

Cicneral Gounsal

Attachmeat

ho stated

CC:

Mr.

Mr Yanolricky (053)

MI. Califano

It Col Haig

ASG

OSA, ASG Control No 2 384 H

FILE

SECRETREGRADED UNCIASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED

FROM CLASSIFIED INCLOSURES

NH 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 44

---

## Page 45

SECRET

This document

No 14 08

consists of

1.8

Copies, Series A

- pagos

REPORT OF THE SUB-COMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION:

ACTIONS TAKEN DURING JULY-AUGUST 1963

IN CURBING CUBAN SUBVERSION IN LATIN AMERICA

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatio

downgrading and

declassification

OSA, AS contro No. 2: 3:846 H

50955 DorId: 32276192 Page 15

---

## Page 46

SECRET

11.:

Control of Iravel to and from Cuba

Central Intelligence Agency

a. Developed highly useful information

Transmitted this intorma"

tion to

b. Maintained close watch over

See Annex B for table

during July and August.

C. As a result of information furnished to him by

and with

indicated that he would

make every effort to prevent l

di At the urgine ofl

in mid-Julyl

e. Partly as a result of the efforts of

which had been scheduled to

lin August. This was one of the :

take place

factors which led to

f. After considerable prodding byl

presented legislative proposals to thel

which will require all persons

to have their

in.

SECRET

GROUP 1

50955 DoeT&: 32276192)

Baueras

---

## Page 47

SECRET

-2-

Efforts

more information and to encourage

are being made to obtain

Department of State

Instructed Embassy Conakry to try to persuade

Guinean authorities to deny use of airport facilities by

flights on Habana-Moscow route.

These efforts achieved a

temporary withholding of permission for future regular flights,

at least until such time as the Soviets develop cheir own:

refueling facilities at Conakry.

b. Instructed Embassy Rio to approach Brazilian

authorities to express. our deep concern at the growing

frequency of Cuban non-scheduled flights to Brazil and request

their cooperation in curbing them. Also instructed our

Embassies in several Latin American countries to work with

in furnishing the names of nationals of those:

countries travelling on these flights to local authorities

and urging them: (1) to institute tighter controls on their:

own citizens travelling to Cuba, and (2) to express their

concern to the Brazilian Government over Cuban use of Brazil.

as a way station for transporting subversives.

c. As a result of representations made to the

British Government about Cuban flights to the Cayman Islands

carrying Latin American subversives, the British developed

an administrative scheme which will effectively prohibit the

Fuse of British Caribbean dependencies by Cubana as transit

ive schem

points for passengers. The British intend to require transit

visas of passengers passing through their areas, and to

reject applications: for such visas except in certain special

cases. Persons not possessing visas would be prevented from

leaving their aircraft, or would be returned to their point

of origin.

d. Instructed Embassy Mexico City on August 29 to

inform the Mexican airline CMA that the United States is

opposed to a proposal that CMA operate charter flights to

SECRET

59953.0000td:772761921

Page

---

## Page 48

SECRET

carry refugees from Habana to Central America. CMA, as a

result, stated that they had no intention of proceeding

further with this project.

e.

Instructed our missions in Curacao and the Hague:

to investigate a report that KLM was planning to renew

scheduled Curacao-Habana flights and to reiterate US

opposition to resumption of air service to Cuba. KLM assured

our Embassy that there is no plan to initiate service,

scheduled or non-scheduled, to Habana.

f. Instructed Embassy Ottawa to express our strong

objections to a proposal that a Cubana charter flight pick

up a second group of U.S. students in Montreal to fly them

to Cuba. The flight was not authorized.

g. Instructed Consulate Georgetown to investigate

Cubana approaches to secure flight facilities. Mission

reported on August 1 that the Governor bed no knowledge of

any talks between the B.G. Ministry of Communications. and

the Cuban Government regarding landing rights for Cubana

planes. The Governor indicated his intention to inquire

further and to keep us advised. London reported that neither

the Cuban nor the British Guiana Governments had raised the

issue of landing rights with H.M.G.

h. Urged the governments of Mexico, Canada, Jamaica

and the Netherlands to refuse to assist the Cuban Government

in its efforts to find a short route for return of the 58

American students who illegally travelled to Cuba. Also

informed Pan American Airways that we were opposed to a Cuban

request for a PAA charter flight to fly the students from

Habana to New York.

1. Instructed our missions at Port of Spain and

Barbados on several occasions to approach these governments

to express the concern of the U.S. at indications of Cuban

on a long

interest in the use of their aviation facilities.

Embassy Port of Spain discussed with the Foreign Secretary

of Trinidad various legal moves available that would enable

SECRET

HM:50955 Doet0:322

---

## Page 49

SECRET

-4-

GOTT to control movements of aircraft within their territory,

citing examples of such controls instituted by Mexico, Canada

and Ireland. He indicated receptiveness to the proposal that

the list of suggestions be made available to the aviation

officials concerned.

j• During a previous reporting period Embassy

Santiago urged the government of Chile to refuse visas to

Cuban delegated to a preparatory meeting for the II Latin

American Youth Congress scheduled for August in the Chilean

capital. Inability of Cuban delegates to obtain Chilean

visas for this meeting is one of the contributing factors to

the Cuban sponsors announcing during August that the meeting

had been postponed.

k. Sent general instructions to our missions in

countries which participate in the International Union of

Architects asking them to urge the cooparation of governmental

authorities in preventing or discouraging the attendance of

their nationals to the VII UIA Congress in Habana, September

29 " October 4, 1963. Followed this up with instructions to

individual posts to try where feasible to dissurde

architects from free world countries from serving on the jury

for the selection of a Bay of Pigs monument.

1. Urged Canadian Government to block a plan to

commence food parcel shipments to Cuba on a commercial basis

that would have required the establishment of scheduled

weekly charter flights by Canadian planes.

2.

Control of Movement of Cuban Propaganda

Central Intelligence Agency

Responding to the

Larce quantities of

For example, some 50 pounds of

SECRET

509559

NPoeT4:322767920 Fage 49r

---

## Page 50

SECRET

÷5-

y3. Control of Clandestine Movement of Guerrillas and Arms

Department of Defense

a. Continued surveillance of the area surrounding

Cuba during the months of July and August at the same rate

and with the same emphasis as prior to 1 July 1963.

b. Continued to maintain U.S. Forces, primarily from

within the Atlantic Command, available to assist other

Caribbean governments in the interception of suspicious craft

in territorial waters, as might be requested. No such

requests were received from any other government during the

period covered by this report.

However, U.S. Forces did keep

track of the location of the Soviet merchant freighter

MITCHURINSK, which was suspected of carrying subversives and

arms from Cuba to British Guiana in mid-July. MITCHURINSK

was under U.S. surveillance from its departure from Habana

until United Kingdom forces assumed the task of keeping this

ship under surveillance upon its approach to Georgetown,

British Guiana. Subsequeatly, British police search of

MITCHURINSK in British Guiana

waters revealed nothing of a

suspicious nature.

Central Intelligence Agency

late in August published a new

providing a penalty of no less than five

years imprisonment for persons who participate in

on a lead turnished by

is working

concerning a

Department of State

Instructed our Consulate General in Georgetown to

investigate reports that commercial cargoes (which could

SECRET

Dacid: 32236192

---

## Page 51

SECRET

-6-

conceal illicit arms traffic out of Cuba) had developed

between British Guiana and Cuba. Investigations to date

have been negative.

4. Control of Transfer of Funds

Department of State

Cooperated with the Foreign Assets Control Office

of the Treasury Department in developing blocking controls

with respect to Cuba which went into effect on July 9, 1963.

5. Strengthening of Counter-Insurgency Capabilities

Department of Defense

&.

Continued the installation of military communica

tions facilities in Latin America. Operational dates for

the multi-channel radio stations to be installed in Managua,

Nicaragua and Tegucigalpa, Honduras have been delared to 15

October 1963 and 15 December 1963, respectively because of

new engineering and contractual requirements. Negotiations

are continuing with Colombia and Ecuador for installation

of U.S. military radio facilities. Completion of a new

commercial trans-isthmian cable in the Panama Canal Zone

within the coming month is expected to improve military

communications within the United States and the Commander

in-Chief, U.S. Southern Command.

b. Continued the surveillance of Cuba by U.S.

Forces, reporting as before to U.S. commanders, organiza-

tions and agencies. Reports of surveillance have been

disseminated to all who have a requirement to know.

C.

Established a 24 hour per day, 7 day per week

duty watch at the U.S. Military Groups in

the Caribbean

countries in conjunction with implementation of the military.

alerting system.

Continued efforts to staff the U.S.

Southern Command Intelligence Center with properly cleared,

trained personnel (this center is the military focal point

for relaying information concerning the movement of

subversives) Filled, partially, the authorized billets in

SECRET

NN - 50955

---

## Page 52

SECRET

-7-

the U.S. Southern Command Intelligence Center and took

under consideration the problem of an increase in the billet

structure in the Center.

The Commander-in-Chief, U.S.

Southern Command together with his intelligence officer

visited Honduras and Nicaragua and determined that no

significant problems existed which would interfere with

effective operations in those countries.

d. Action previously initiated by the Commander,

U.S. Naval Forces, Southern Command (COMUSNAVSO) to establish

a Small Craft Inspection and Training Team (SCIATT) as a

contribution to the Caribbean Surveillance System is progress

ing satisfactorily. Permanent assignment of U.S. Coast Guard

personnel to SCIATT in the Canal Zone has been approved and

the U.S. Coast Guard has taken appropriate implementing

actions:

e. During the period of this report, the SCIATT con=

ducted an on-the-job training course at Puntarenas, Costa

Rica.

Training was given to 13 members of the Guardia Civil

of Costa Rica who were either newly assigned to the 40 foot

Coast Guard utility boats (CGUBs) or were to be assigned as

replacement crew members...

A quarterly inspection and evaluation of the CGUBs

provided other Central American countries was conducted

during the period 17 to 31 August by a mobile training team

(MTT) made up of SCIATT personnel.

&. Continued efforts to improve the internal security

of Latin American armies through the provision of Intelligence

Advisors. Presently there

are such advisors assigned to 14

Latin countries, emphasizing counterintelligence and counter-

subversion.

h. During the reporting period MTTs conducted train-

ing in counterinsurgency.for the armed forces of Colombia,

Bolivia, Venezuela, Peru and El Salvador:

1: Civic Action MTTs were sent to Guatemala, Bolivia,

Colombia, El Salvador, Jamaica and Ecuador.

SECRET

0925

300019102275182 Pase

---

## Page 53

6

SECRET

-8-

Exchange of Intelligence on Cuban Subversion

Central Intelligence Agency

continued in

a great majority of countries

tion concerning l

information as

informa

as well

as such

In, many instances,

the

Iwas paralleled by the

The response to this information has

frei

varied greatly.

began to pay greater attention to the information and act on

Sit.

during

the reporting period showed little inclination to follow up

on the information.

Department of State

a. Reiterated to the Foreign Minister of Peru our

interest in having the facts of the Puerto Maldonado incident

brought to the attention of the OAS, and urged that

action be taken as soon as possible.

this

b. Urged the Government of Guatemala to submit

evidence of communist activity to the OAS.

7.

Surveillance of Cuban Diplomatic, Commercial and Culturall

Missions

Department of State

Instructed Embassy La Paz to follow up closely.

on

charges of involvement by the Cuban mission in internal

policies of Bolivia, and, at the Embassy's discretion,

point out to Bolivian officials the opportunity for a possible:

break in relations with Cuba. Embassy La Paz was

not able tog

SECRET

1p09

---

## Page 54

SECRET

= 9=

press for a break when the evidence of Cuban intervention

did not prove to be as conclusive as originally reported.

8.

Other Special Actions

Department of State

a. Obtained action by the COAS on July 3 on the

Lavalle Committee Report transmitting the document to the

governments and urging them to implement the specific and

general recommendations contained therein as soon as

possible.

b. Through Embassy Managua informed the Nicaraguan

Government of the matters which we wanted to have considered

during the informal meeting of the Ministers of Security and

Interior of the Isthmian countries held in Managua, August

26-28 in preparation for the second formal meeting of the

Managua Security Conference countries later this year.

c. Explained in detail the nature of the Cuban

threat and the related policy objectives of the U.S., during

conversation in London and in Washington with Mr. Adam Watson;

newly appointed British Ambassador to Cuba.

United States Information Agency

a. The Agency's press service during the reporting

period transmitted 12 articles, commentaries, and back

grounders on its wireless file service to USIA posts through-

out Latin America for placement in the local newspapers and

the Voice of America Spanish broadcasts to Latin America

carried a total of 28 commentaries and features on the subject

of Cuban-based subversion.

These stories were designed to

alert people in Latin America to the dangers of this

subversion.

b. In response to standing Agency instructions to

give special attention to developments related to Cuba-based

subversion, USIA posts in Latin America were prompt in

reporting incidents and in providing editorial comments from

SECRET

5P56

Page -A

---

## Page 55

SECRET

-10-

the Latin American press, all of which was used in the

Agency's radio and press output.

The main developments treated In the Agency's radio

and press coverage included Castro's July 26 speech urging

revolutions in Latin America, the discovery of terrorist

weapons factories in Guayaquil, the Ecuadorean Vice

President's accusation

of Cuban responsibility for terrorism,

the Cuban use of Grand Cayman as a way station for subversive

elements from Cuba, the expulsion from the University of a

ot G, and expan

Bolivian youth leader for receiving funds from Cuba,

Castro-trained guerrillas in Honduras, and Bolivian protests

against meddling by the Cuban Embassy in the miner's strike.

A Voice of American roving reporter in Latin America

provided several. reports on the subversion picture in coun

tries he visited.

c. In support of the Agency's effort or. Cuban-based

subversion, the publications center in Mexico began work on

three pamphlets during the period based on Castro's report

of his visit to the Soviet Union (showing that he contradicted

himself in some of his extravagant claims of Soviet progress),

the losses suffered by Cuban labor under Castro, and the

fate of political prisoners in Cuba. When completed, these

pamphlets will be reproduced and distributed in quantity

throughout the area.

SECRET

1: 209004

Perydes2z701p2

---

## Page 56

SECRET

ANNEX A

CIA Intelligence Annex

have become a major means l

since late Julyl

on 25 July

F° on D,

22, 28 and 29 August -- L

Some of the l

Many of the l

been

apparently been

probably

Jhad

but othars had

and some had

was evidently designed to helpL

which was

Ion 11 July 1963.

September

1962.

November

1962•

SECRET

Doetu 322761921 Page

---

## Page 57

SECRET

2

reports that the

11 Julv. can

be expected to follow the guidance of

The activities ot

at least for the present, have been greatly

inhibited by l

and by

It is reported that the

has issued.orders

at the present time. This action is

apparently che result of the

land the greater implementation

.2

According to an

report received in July,

is being formed in collaboration with

and is to be managed

_It expects

to receive

This may

Indicate a pattern by which

It was

reported that in mid-July 1963, a

The

report nas not, been contirmed.

•SECRET

15R252

D00109/32226192

---

## Page 58

SECRET

•:3 -

3.

Annarently

under the leadership of such figures as

were reported to be receiving

Jin support of their efforts

has stated

that his plan calls for expanding and accellerating

culminating in a

Twithin two wears

Thora 1a

no indica

It has

tion that

been reporter that leaders |

have been greatly annoyed by the tendency

to support the

It is reported that the

which is a relatively

sma 11

has in recent weeks been negotiating

by two or three

It was reported, however, that

having difficulty getting enough dollars

make significant purchases possible.

_was

lon 23

August

during the recent crisis.. Subsequently, however,

that he need

not tear

There has. in fact. been

no hard information

Tin spite of somel

SECRET

50053

---

## Page 59

SECRET

4

is

reported to have attempted to encourage

to revitalize

efforts are

being made tol

providing guidance and possibly tinancial support

Iraports have been received

primarily in the form of

July 19b3

in

A smalt quantity

and a considerable amount of books and pamphlets

have indicated

Recent reports

promises of assistance from

There have been a number of

For example, in mid-July

SECRET

---

## Page 60

SECRET

that

In early August,

I Another report indicated

in mid-August for the

the

to supervise

who recently returned from

is said to have been assigned this

responsibility

So far as we know.

has not made any complaints or otherwise signified

concern or awareness of these reported

l activities.

group

began to move against a

operating against the

and active in the vicinity of the

has been conducting

since July. The dense jungle anda

difficult terrain, however,

is scanty and

conflicting. It is apparently

since the fall of

1962•

confessed that

on 22 July:

SECRET

D001d-1227619212

6:0

---

## Page 61

SECRET

6

He said that

order to

He admitted that he had recelved

Ln

He also said

rthat:

4 :.

be delivered

for goods to

in turn,

has indicated that

loans

to secure additional

in amounts sufficient

over any foreseeable crisis. It was also

reported that

General

Reports continue to be received from many places

indicating that the

is still one

of the most common methods

Instances where such

have occurred recently

in

SECRET

---

## Page 62

ANNEX

KNOWN

JULY 1963

6

14

25

0

20

29

12

37

2

4

6

0

JULY

FROM

0

0

0

0

0

0

SECRE

SECRETS

33

65

5

15

3

4

28

0

0

0

Ö TÄL

17

22

319

15

0

17

Ростак

---

## Page 63

KNOWN

AUGUST 1963

TO

4

5

0

7

22

• AUGUST

FROM

0

3

24

10

47

0

1

14

8

8

2: m

0:

SECRET

1

3

SECRET

34

0

6

0

2

8

2

63

0

0

0

9

T

A 1.

0

10

3

101

0

1G

0

2143

Decides

---

