# 198-10005-10017

## Page 1

198-10005-10017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ARMY

198-10005-10017

CALIFANO PAPERS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

CIA

CUBA PROJECT PROGRESS REPORT

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/10/1962

6

ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS

MRR GROUP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/07/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 2. Draft copy of Cuba Project Progress Report, 4-11 April 1962,

regarding clandestine resistance groups in Cuba.

Department of the Army EO 13528

Declassity

1 Exclude

• Exempt

Authority_

• Refer To _

v9.1

NW 50955

DocId: 32423735

Page

1

11

---

## Page 2

DRAFT

SECRET

2.0 APR 182

CUBA PROJECT PROGRESS REPORT

4• 11 Арті! 1962

OPERATIONAL

An Internal leades of the Movimiento Recupe racion Revolu-

cionario (MRR) who was infiltrated into Cuba on 29 December 196l, and

eidiltrated on 29 March 1962, paid at a debricfing on 7 April that be

considers only five clandestine r

stance

forganizationg ta

Cuba of nattonal importance: The Directorio Revolucionario Estudantu

(DRE), Mormiento Democrat/Criquano (MDG), Movimienio Revolut

clona rio de Pueblo (MRP). Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario

(MRI), and the 30th of November

Only these groupo have the

stablish

nec

sary motivation and discipline to

As coordination among them.

selves.

There are a large number of other underground revolutonary

Unit

which claim to be of national importance but which here no more

than two or three dozen men at most and can beffound only in the aroa

MIES LOUS

where they were established. Most of the small

appear to have

been established by self-named leaders for personal reasons, financial

gain through the sale of "bondo. "or for future political opportunity

n fidel Castro is overthrown. Although the

mall group. are relatively inactive, their claime to importance bave

attracted numerous diesidents who could be more useful if they were

members of the tow larger and more effective organizations. Because

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

of the boundles, perconal ambitions of the reopective leadero and the

geographic dispercion of the unito, these conll groupe could naver be

Lorraneson

actively merged into a centrally directed longer Con To uno them

offectively we would have to try to ciphen off the momborohip a uto

castrolled groups. 11 this to not popoible, they may Corve a uneful

purpose by providing unwitting diverslonary barfecoment while the

Largoy troupe work toward the major conlo.

?. A untlaterelly recrulted conlor oficer of the diplomatic

servico of a neutraliat African country had been briefed and given

training in secret wridng and communicatione to a

st him in reporting

on our objective in Cube, He to now in Havana from bere be plans.

one chea

to travel to roar of interes

to do.

3. The Chiet of the

Intelligenco Service bar agreed to

cooperate with un on Cuban intelligence Operations. He had identifled

sovere courced aboard alipe traneitting Cuban porto and bas arranged

for their periodie briefing and debriefing.

X. The

Intelligence Service has aloo agreed to cooperare wit?

un to coleblion are otecer "contero.

Inc

to

bandle

Merchant Marine cource who call at Cuban porte.

5. Tho Medrid Station Cuban refugee debrieling center le now

in oporation and reculto of the diret tat

euros tony are or being reviewed:

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

for disseminaton.-The motintercoung andinformative.refugee. thus

tar is the brother of Amando Hart, tbe Cuban Minister of Education and

member of the twenty-five man ORI Central Committee:

The conter te

aldo collecting travel and perconal documente which may be used for

agent operationas

6. We received valuable data on Cuban trade from the debriefing

of a former official of the Ministry of Commerce who defected in Canada

at the end of March.

we were intral done February by ClA sources

that thie official was disaffocted and wished to work againes Castro. We

contacted him and attempted unsucceesfully to induce him to return to

Cuba de our agent.

We have since expedited his travel to Miami where

he lo being Interrogated:

7. We are in contact with

Huber Mato®,

former associate of Fidel Castro, who broke with Fidel and has been

in Jail oo the Tele of Pines since 1960. Although there is no practical

method of effecting the eecape or release of Huber at predeat, we will

continue contact with

I who maintaine correspondence with

Huber through

who are in Cubs.

CAC INFORMATION RE PORTS

Following are highlighte from selected interrogations of Cuben

refugees processed through the Caribbean Admission Center (CAC) at

SECRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

Opa locka, Florida This Information is secured entirely from un-

trained obeervers and is presented partly as oria nal uncontirred data

and partly as a supplement to intelligence already received from controlled

reliable source. All CAC information is screened for use in the daily

and weekly Cuban summa ries.

During the past week

101309

Cuban retigees through Miami, peepered 263 preliminary interrogation

mr pastones

reporte and dieseminated 135 information reportomerl

8. Numerous reports confirm that all towns have been partitioned

into 'blocke Infiltrated by communiet informants under the direction of

block chiefe of the Comite de Detents." The informant ay me

tilizes data procured from the telephone monitoring awitchbearde

established in the telephone centrale of every town.

One refugee from

the Cuban Telephone Company described a switchboard panel in the :

'Principé plant" in Havana which was monitoring "20 or 30 positions."

These informanto, their chiefe, members of the militia, G-Z, "chivatos"

(provocation agenis), and ocher Castro supportere are now generally

labeled by the populace

as communists rather than Castroists.

9. While the network of informants protecte the home front,

officialo of the National Directorate of the IntegratedRevolutionary

Organization (ORI) are increasingly occupied with the export of Castroist-

communism to the Western Hemisphere. Flight manifeste of Cubana

Airlines show that 'hundrede of Latin Americans are being brought to

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

15

Cuba for training and indoctrination. " In addition to regular commercial

transportation, charter Lights to service these persone are being run

thrice monthly throughout South America.

In order to avoid Cuban visas

and entry-eidi stamps in tbeir passporto, these persons are given vias

on a separate sheetsof paper. In Cube all arrangemente are made for

them by the Inetituto Cubano de Amlotad con los Pueblos (ICAP).

Soviet.military equipment has been reported in increasingly

larger quantities and wider diebursement. One refugee said that he

saw 120 or 25 wheel-mounted Soviet 100 mm field gune M-55 (identified

(rom photographs) at a militia camp at Mirande near Camaguey.

11l. Shortages of certain essential food iteme have resulted in

widespread protests and, in a few intances, to open action by those

directly affected. A group of 113 to 15 women" reportedly waylaid a

milk truok, overpowered the driver, and each carried off two liters

of milk.

12. Refugees described the edetence of three resietance organizea

tiono, allegedly widespread in membership but limited in action. One,

the Movimiento de Recuperacion Revolucionario Militar (MRRM) to a

group which hao broken away from the Movimiento de Recuperacion

Revolucionaria (MRR) Reportedly, lito objectivo le to apprehend key

Caotro leadero when the time lo appropriate. MRRM io organized in

all provinco except Maranzas and Camaguey where the movement hae

SECRET

---

## Page 7

SECRET

6

now begun to develop a following. The second organisation, the Movi-

miento Democratico Cristiano (MDC), In described ad ortented alone

traditional Chriatian democrate lines. It do asid to have a national

coordinator, a nattonal emcutive, provincial, military and political

coordinators, and resistance chiofs." They claim that military and

couster-revolutionary activities have been limited because of lack of

equipment. A third organization, the Unidad Revolucionario (UR),

to reported to be carrying out the abotage of sugar felds by burring;

using a small incendiary device made of golatin, match heads, potassium

permanganate tablets, and glycerine.

SECRET

---

