# 198-10007-10033

## Page 1

198-10007-10033

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ARMY

198-10007-10033

1300011

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

Document Information

ARMY

WILLIAM P. YARBOROUGH

WILLIAM B. ROSSEN

JUWTFA AFTER ACTION REPORT

DATE:

PAGES:

12/27/1962

18

SUBJECTS:

CUBAN MISSILE CRISIS - MILITARY EVALUATION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Top Sccret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Memo from Yarborough to Rossen re: military evaluation of Cuban missile crisis.

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

CARES CONCURRENCE OF

MAR 2016

DATE:

JFKReureus

sartment of the Army EO 1352

Declassit

• Exclude E Exempt

Authonty..

F Pole a 3ta/201S By KIC

NO STATE OBJECTION

TO EASTE ATION

DATE 01/14/16

NK 50955

DocId: 32424026

Page 1

42

---

## Page 2

HEADQUARTERS

JOINT UNCONVENTIONAL, VARFARE

TASK FORCE, ATLANFIC

Port Bragg, North Carolina

CONJUWITA CS

18 December 1962

LNSTORICAR RECORD OF

CUBAN OPERASION

1. BLOSE.

The purpose of thie report la to document activities of Joint Uncon-

ventional Warfare Tank Force, Atlantie (JUWIFA) during the CUBAN operations

from 25 October 1962 through 1 Decerber 1962.

2.

GENERAL,

Mw was activated at Vort Bragg, North Carolina on 25 October

1962 by direction of Commander in Chief, Atlatic with the approval of

the Joint Citess of State. Infer Ceneral (then Brig Gen) Willian P.

Yarborough, Conmanding Genaral, D3 Army Special Warfare Center was

designated Commander, JUlIA de en additional duty by GINCLAlt wich the

concurrence of CO, USCONARE.

ChicaNt component commanders, with the exception of ClArANT

activated JUNITA component forces required under Appendix II to Annex 7

of CINCIANT Contingency Operation Flan 314/316-61 and passed operational

control to JUVITA on 26 October 1962, CIAJUTTA was not activated during

the emergency.

OFCON of Naval forces Ilated In Appendix II was not passed

to COMNAVJUNIRA, Naval forces vere made available on an "as

roquited"

basis.

Planning and operations commenced on 26 October 1962 and continued

through 1 December 1962.

3. MISSTON.

directed by CINCLANI,

ventional warfare (U) operations in CUBA,)

CUBA in support of and in coordination with plans and objectives of

CINCLANE component commandere tog/

(1) Reduce the combat effectiveness and morale of the CASTRO

Goverment.

(2) Provide U.S; military personnel and other selected individuals

the moans to renain free from enemy control in unfriendly territory:

Reduction santia

AT 12 YEAR INTERY*S:

MATICALLY DECLARE

DOD DIR 5200.10

-To Dis 194

#/ 300011

WW 50955

DocId:32424026. Page 2

---

## Page 3

IC:

22/AAM

COMJUNTEA CS

18 December 1962

SUBIRCT: Historical Record of JUWITA CUBAN Operation

(3) Reduce the military, psychological and political potential

of the CASTRO Government.

(4) Aseist In establishing friendly political control in CUBA.

AUGMENTATION.

E. JUNTEA,

(1) . Prior to the activation of JUWITA, JUWITA plaming and

functions were a responsibility of the Plans Division (J58) of CINCIANT.

At activation, JUNITA was organized in accordance with the doint Table

of Distributhen in Appendix II to Annex Y of CINCLANT OPLAN 314/316-61

and provided 26 officers and seven enlIsted menal

JUNTTA was augmented

with addlelount persomel under authority contained Sub-section 5,

Sect ton 2. JCs, Pub: 2, dated November 1959, subject: Untfied Action

Armed Forces, (UNAAF).

(2) The initial staffing of JUWITA was inadequate and required

considerable personnel augmentation to provide internal and external

security, communications and administrative support, llaison, and additional

staff personnel to plan and conduct operations.

(3) Additional personnel and equipment were obtained from the

Army and Air Force to provide essential communications on a twenty-four

hour basis, provide adequate administrative and control procedures, and

augment the staff to meet all operational requirements.

(4) Based on the augmentation needed to make JUWIFA fully

operational, recomendatione were submitted by COMJUWTFA letter, dated

26 November 1962, su

subject:

"Organization for the Conduct of Unconventional

Warfare in the Atlantic Command Area." This letter proposes a new Joint

Table of Distribution providing for a full wartime complement, a planning

staff, and the necessary staff augmentation to bring the planning staff

to Its full wartime couplement.

b. ARJUNTFA.

(1) Colonel Willtam Evans-Smith, Carmanding Officer, 7th Special

Forces Group Airborne, Ist Special Forces was designated Cormander, Army

forces, TWITA (COMARJUWIIA) on 26 October 1962

A command and control

alement, Special Forces Operational Base (STOB), was activated at Fort

Bragg, and COMARJUWITA was assigned operational control of Army Forces

fisted In Appendix II to Annex Y of CINCLANT OPLAN 314/316-61, Less thie

military police platoon, light truck company, and CIC detachment:

Subsequently, CG, USA SPWAR Cen was directed by CINCARIANT

so provide ARJUWirA, from within U.S. Army Special Warfare Center resources,

the psychological warfare, CIC, light truck and military police type support

2

N# 50955 DocId:32424026 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET

COMTUWTEA CS

18 December 1962

SUAJECI: Hlstorleal Record Of JUWTYA CUBAN Operation

Ilated under Appendix II to Annex Y of CINCLANT OPLAN 314/316-61. Auguenta-

on fron pucaide u.c. aruy spechet wertare wonter rescurees vas zogusree

to provide nilitary police typo support for both JUrnA aod ALJUNLE

oecurity Tuo offtceco ond 66 enllated mon vore atenched to AlJUWITA 36

subatieuke mensure?

3 In addstion to tho auova nuemantarion,.

o ACtiteYs e pIgDeT operertomal rendinete AtAtu. Mimted

operational plauing and trafning exercises conducted indicated a require-

(SPOB eugmentatton and incroaged foree taba to properly

undertake operations

•In CUBA. Rocommondations' for chenges in êfe ABJUWTFA

troop ltat vere forvarded tü tructant by let Indorsemmt, this headquarters,

dated 3 Decenter 1962, to lettet, Hendquartero,

7th Speetal Forces Group

(Abn), lat Spoctal Forceo, daços 26 Bovenber 1902, subject: Recoumended

Changos to Troop Wiat in Couuarla DuAt 314-6L (U)•

A JuRLh,

(1) Colonel Cheater Jack, Coamanding Offtcer, let Alr Cormando

Group, was designated Conmandet, Asultca (Chmccurzta) on 26 betober 1904

À commond and control elemnt from che lst A15 Cormendo Croup vus activatedl

ie Eglin AMB Auxllinry Mmber 9, FloRths, and CONAFJUVTFA van araigned

eperational:

control of Alr Forcer Forces lidted in Appendt. IT to Amex Y

of CINCLANI OPLAN 314/316-61-

(2) Augentation to AJJUVITA forces l10ted, uao not required.

d. HAVJULETZA.

AVIUWTEA (OOS VaJE) 26 ne 5.2 deat tee eo enen ,

(2) Hoval forcos listed In Appendis II to Annox & of CENCLANT

OFLAN 314/316-61 wore CO

bo provided by cInclaitrir to condaviumila for

supporE of JURLEA oporattons

se roqutred.

[(3) Tuo SEAL, Team Detochmento, one officer and fivo enlisted men

each

1962.

vétre anoignod to operationnl control of COMMVJUWITh on 5 Novenbeg

(4) CONSUBIANE provided tuo aubmarinas for support of joint

Special Forces - SBAL Toan amphibious treining (4-5 Noverber and 16-17

Novenber) and for aupport of Bxercise DIVIL'S TRIDNYY (30 Nov i 4 Dec):

(5) Augmentation to NAVJUVITA forces lleted above une not

required.

3

TOP SCCRET

AH 50955 DocId:32424026 Page #

---

## Page 5

TOP SECRET

CONTUNTRA CS

SUBJECT: Eletorical Record of JUVREA CUBAN Operation

18 December 1962

•(1) A CIA Llatoon Officer une furnished tO JUNITA on 26 October

officer with CAlAND rather then an intogral umber of the JUVITA state.

(2) The organiration, roscurces and capabilities of CIAJUNTEA

were union to Julian throughout the operation. Consequently ita

augmentation noeda vore not daterined.

baring the perfod 20 October 1962 through

* December 1962, JUtTA monttored and/oz conducted the following exercise:

and training!

B .:

Aphabtous Fratning Bsercises

Unds

Forces personnel conducted Balt Contained Breathing Apperatus (SCUJA)

lookout training from vulmine USS SPLUTIE, vicinity Horfolk, Virginta,

outeral solar equipuens precluded fulfillnent of all tratning objectives.

Hovover, familtertzntion wn accomplished in lock-out procedures and the

teemiques of lung swim drille, shipboard training, and infiitration from

rumarinea, This training potated out certain doficiencies in amphibious

entry techniques: Burcher joint training la required to perfect end

standerdize Spacial Farces techniques in all phases of sphibious entry

operations.

a Durina the portod 3-4 Novenber 1962, the two Special Forces

"A" Dotachmento scheduled For Infiltration fron sumarines partieipated

in emphibious infiltracion craining vicinity Mayport, Florida. Utilising

subnario VES SEA CAT and USS TIRANES, Ersining was conducted La embarka-

tion, dobarkation, float oute and towing, beach landing, end recovary

operations: Conidorable di(fleulty ino encounterad beemme the Spectat

Forcea Detachmenta lached proper equiport, rubber landing boats, salots

eguipment, and water 2100ng matetial. In addition, the detachments

had had no previous training in submarino operations.

Results of training

were anatisfactory and additional training tas requested, including the

uSe Of 5BAL Ton Detachments for beach recomaissance, after receipt of

proper equipment.

(3, un Recond aubmarine training exercise was conducted in the

Florida Iny area on 16-17 Novanber 1962 by tuo Spectel Forces "4" Detach»

monto and two SEAl. Tean Dotachments, ho embarked on the USS SBA CAT and

USS THANK from Ray West, Plorida.

Ten man rubber boats had been procured

TOP SECRET

NW 50955 DocId: 32424026 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TOP SECRET

COMJUVITA CS

18 December 1962

BUBJECT:

Historical Record of JUVITA CUBAN Operation

and the Spectal Forces

Detachments had conducted inflatable boat training

at OFA LOCEA.

This training, the provicus submarine training, the use of

propez equipment and the una of SIAl Toan Dotachmenta, all contributed to

a succeseful exercise. Problens encounterad ramaled a need for-atlant

motora for Special Forcen nod, Latra red niemalling emufonent for Bnecial

Vorces - SEAL Jenn woa, better interprooting narental for e

It pment.

b. Joint Air Ground Operationa!

roughout the month 2f. Mumber 1962 all Special Forces detach®

mento schoduled for air infiltzation conducted alt drops and tacklesl

exorcioss from lot A1r Commando Group C47 and Col6 atrereft at Fort

Brogg, North Carolina,: Inotruction and tratning includod the use of the

CIA procured ERI-2 Honing Bencon and the connetally procured SEPCRAFTER

VET (AN) radio for air ground commication...

osules obtained on both

steis were meginal and the devlament of aatiafatory eguipment ta

regutrod, The Stold emarelae covered marshalling, infiltration, sanenbly;

storillaation of na'a, movement to ante arsas, and establlohing commies-

tion.

While the above training was considered succesaful it was apparent

thot additional Spectal Forces » Air Forces training in conventional

vartare air oporationa te required to devalop better techniques, coordina=

tion, and ability to conduct uncoventional varfare afe operations.

Exercise Devil'e Trident:

Thie exerciae was conducted, as approved and directed by CHICLAN,

boginning with Day Ditcod stand down on 30 November 1962 and endine with

mitration (D13) on 4 December 1962..

The purpose of the exercise

was to

ret mortfled prepositioning;

Infiltration, and resupply phases of corturitn

OPLAN 314/316-62, follow on detachmonts vere not played. Although the Sea

Infiltration was succesaful and all flighte vere flown, on schedule, train.

ing results were considered marginal because adverse weather precluded

octual infiltration and soupply drops and adverna ataospherle couditions

Merupted commientios. However, JUWIA plening for prepositioning,

infiltration, and rosupply phanen was considered valid.

PEOBLEMS

UND.

General:

Froblens vere encountered in all the major JURTFA

functional areas. In sone cases these problens were solved, iu others

unsolved because colution was beyond the capability of COMJUNITA: The

major problem areas are dincuased in the body of this report.

Others,

leos significant to effective performance are discussad in the eeperato

inclosured and appendices.

b. Persornel and Admintecration:

5

TOP SECRET

NW 50955 DocId: 32424026 Page

6

---

## Page 7

TOP SECRET

COUSBAIZA CS

18 December 1962

SUBJECT: Eletoricel Record of JUVETA CUBAN Operation

(1) No mobilination designe rosters wore madntained for JUWEFA

in pre alort plaming. JUnTA yos hastily maned with officers and

entiated men with, for the most part, no previous exposure to unconventional

warfere and folnt anale duty.

(2)

The Hoblication IT-made ne provieton for headquarters

support personnell. Concenter, Supply, Adfutent Cenaral and Securtsy.

In consequence, no unita or activities had boen previounly designated to

provida ento mupport Persomal, vien finally made avastable, vore not

properly qualtited to perfor thede duttos, Partieuler difftculty arose

with respect to secunity closeces.

The headquertars wan named by some

Kar peraoo, tno vere bot cleated for top Socret natartal, ad more serlous,

staff acceton chiefe not authorteod secess to nonsitive intelligence which

was prorequiette to valid plauning.

(Slane process ens policies cor adin etration more completely

lacking on activation oe JUMPA,

in consequence, diversion of effort and

backtracking to correct errors occurred in the forative stage which were

injurious to operations and plaing.

€. logistica:

(1)

logsateal plasmina for guerrtila supplies had not progressed

to the point of solla coordination of qualitative and quantitative require-

ments.

Spechlie requirements, including packaging and sigging conforuntion,

vers poe docermined.

force were the only suppxies avastavia througnout tne operatiou. Pre-

atott requirementa to includo storage und positioning are not fully met

at thie time.

(2) Advanced base reconnaissance and base support sergements wore

non-existent at the tims of the alert. JUVITA cupport requirementa vere

Imposed on unprogremod responaibilities of installation and activity.

comendero in consoquence. Linte attuation vas equally soplicable to eir

movement requirements for preponitionins and displacemens and coordination

of poet-link up logtoete support of JuvrA forces to Cha. the latter to

problem arass are the oubjoct of coordination at this time,

d. Operatione and Intelligence:

(1) The largot single impedint in the fiold of operations end

Intelligence uns the almoit couplete gop unich extated botween. the CIA

and JUNTA: MIs fIrEte Tactor naked any confidence in the JUVIA plans

evolved during the emergency an impossibility.

The nature of unconven-

etonal workore lo ouch that thore ruct be a continuity in operations and

intelligence in the transition from a condition short of war to military

operations, The lock of such continuity makes unconventional varfare

TOP SE

ECRET

NW. 50955 DocId: 32424026

Page

---

## Page 8

TOP SECRET

COMTUWITA CS

18 December 1962

SUBECT: Hiatorical Racord of JUNTEA CUBAN Operation

operationa in support of contingancy operations by a JUVE a novement

planning exercine unrelated to the situation which extete in the target

¿ The complete and otter lack of current unconventtonal warfare

entinatoo of the situntion with ronultant vorking intelligence require.

ments led to serious intelligence geps which vero never closed during the

oporation. This situation me aggranted by shat em be conaidered a

denial of available intelligeace

of a sensitiva nature due to lack of pilor

establialment of the need for nocens and need-to-know for JIVIA Bead-

quarters in pre-enorgoney planning.

(3) The pre-emergoncy JUMTA plaming vs prenioed ou areparation

onset of the enorgency nd croated a situntion which we not conduelve to

planning en unconrationas vattore operation,

(4) Foychological Warfare and Civil Affairs planning was impeded

by polley gaps, lock of discertble continuity of objectives and programing

fon Cubze operation and intalligence upon wich viable planing could be

based.

(5). Plaming roquirements ecoplotely unrelated to JOVTA capabili-

ties, unnupported by proper policy guidance as to national policy, without

allocation of resourcos necessagy for operations, end sooningly inconnistent

with national intalligence entinates diverted from the effort to evolve a

WorkAble plen for Eupport of CHICANT OPLAN 316-62 This was particularly

serious in view of the limited unconventional warfare experience in the

JUWITA otaff.

€. Commications :

in the first tuo weste of planing.

(2) Cryptographie clearancen and deviees which were raquired for

COMTUITZA comand and control denied JUVrEA headquarters direet commies.

tions with component forces and adjacent headquarters for the first weel:

of operations.

themselves in cese of displacement to CUBA, This attuation had not

been corrected an of 1 December 1962.

TOP SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32424026 Page B

---

## Page 9

TOP SECRET

COMJUNITA CS

SUBJECT: Ilotorical Record of JUNIYA CUMAN Operation

18 December 1962

I. Funding.

Irfor plening for funding vas not in sufficient decaii. Lo

proviaton had been made prior to activation for finmotal arrangonente

which would provide the necessary Siding for eatabllahment pt the

bosdquartors or to obenin cuppiles ud equipuent on an energency bagde.

&. Force Tabs.

(1) The uniserviee allocation of Spectal Forces annate without

• positive control by JC8 as to peloritten aggravated by tennettional

reorganisation associated with the Speclal Action Force concept found

Spocial Forces with a dearth of area and lingulatically qualleted

personnel

Tacomplete pre

megency plaming failed to der lop Call

requiremente for: Speedal Peroes partielpation la CHICLAMY OPLAN 316-62,

Thio was partfeularly apperent in Ilátoon royudrenents.

h. Training.

The operation demonntrated a need for Special forces amphibiou

raining in sulmarine inflieration techniques

ir sround training dematrated the need for ads elona!

raining of both Air torce personnel and Special Forces ta the contuet ol

unconventional warfare air operations.

LARRATIVE SUNNY OF DEERATIONS.

25 October 1962

JUVIYA activated at Fort Brage, Morth Carolina.

Headquarters opened, security and countcations

entabliched, and skeleton staff reported for duty.

Major General (Chon Brig Gen) W11l1an P- Tarborough

anoumed comind.

Two JUVEIA 11a180n offleers sent to HQ, CINCIANT.

26 October 1962

Bensining personnel listed in Appendix IV to Anex Y

_DE CINCIANT OPIAN 314/316-61 raported for duty

with the exception of CIA operationa personnel, lavy

Logiecice Officer, and two Marine Ilalson officers,

JUWITA component forcos headquartere activated, less

CIA Forces, and commanders designated.

TOP SECRET

8

NW 50955 DocId: 32424026 Page 9

---

## Page 10

TOP SECRET

CONSUEZZA CB

SUBJECT: Motorical Record of JUNITA CUBAN Opargtion

26 Octobar 1962

(continued)

18 December 1962

Concert, Dea ace on a 10e a Appeal dera

Armon T, CHOCTAN OFLAN 316/91601

tecornatasence party dispatched to uPA Lockt Air Baso

lorida to deteraim cuitability for JuarA Advanc

Staging and Recovery Base.

on shudy of threo UN areas, enphastates Area I

nitleted by ARJUNZA

CINCIANT authorized CONJUrEA Atroct Ilatson with

TAcLA component comandors and requented CRyChAN

ponant force commandera direct Lateon with COMIUVITA

SPA LOCKA Air Base, Florida destgnated Advince Stagine

made tasted warning pee to un to oper

Munias the Advance stuping and ascovery lage! pre

parod to receive, store, and noeure 3,000 man CIA

quorzilla warfare prepack in air dolivery form, and

to rocoive and rentage Spaclal Forces "g" Detachmente

for employnent in CUBAN oporational areas.

28 Oatober 1962

JuvicA requested ellelaid approval to develop own

external assets for we in cubAN operations.

ENEC® CONCARES Spectal Porced "4" Detachments reported

and assigned to OrtoN AnUAnA,

JUVLEA Laued AFJUVTEA Movement order to doploy initial

cadre to Jolm: Staging and Ronovory Dage at ORA LOCKA:

and on order, he prepared to move additional personal,

¡ equipment and aircraft to achieve full sperational

scatus.

infiltration operations;

JUTTA Initiated novemont

9

TOP SECRET

HH 50955

DooId: 32424026

Page 10

---

## Page 11

TOP SECRET

COMJUNTEA C8

FURTECT: Historieal Record of JUVITA CURAN Operation

28 October 1962

(coutinued)

18 Docember 1962

29 October 1962

JUVITA proposed CONCEPT OF OPFRATIONS for mupport

CIRCLANT OPLAN'e 312 and 316 Alapatchod to CINCLANT.

JURIPA ITatROn GieN CIRCIANT compesont teox Losces

confiened by CINCIARTELI.

TARJUVEA and ARIUNTA olengate closod aE Advance Staging

and Bacovery Mese Sen Locka.

Comunicatione opened to

COMPONITA And S00S-

30 October 1962

JURTTA PLAN FOR EXECUTTON O€ JUSZTA CONCEPT OF OPERA -

TIONS diapatched to CACIAT and JNIVA compenent

torces.

JUNITA Informed CINCLANT that ARANTIA would furish

11aison detectment to TV 123, and Spectal Forces "g"

Dotachman with TP 125 Would aceompliah ARJUULFA/

JURA Lindson. Datachment at U3 BAVAL BASE GUARICANANC

for liatson with TG 129:7 and eventunl llateon with

tC 129.2.

31 October 1962

1 November 1962

2 Novembor 1962

Tuo mutueinee on station at KEY WEST, Florida on

twelve hour standby for support of JUJITA operations

JUVEA TASKS AND RESPONSIBILITTES, for execution of

JULITA CONCITT OF OPRARIONS diepatchad to CHICLANT and

JOWLEA component foreeo.

JUVITA designatod Guerrille Hartare AECA IV in CURA for

pianing purposes.

AMUNIA directed, on erder, [to dispatch oue liaison

officor to landing Group Woat (TG 129.1) and one liaison

tean (SP "g" Det) to landing Group East (TG 129.2) to

be prepositional at GUANANAMO Defense Group (TG 123.7).

SCUTA lochout training fron culmarino USS SPIKETISE

Gonmuced vicintty NORFOLE, Virginit.

TOP SECRET

HH 50955 DocId:32424026 Page 11

---

## Page 12

TOP SECRET

COLATUVREA CS

SUBJSGE :

3 November 1962

19 Deceuber 1962

Motorical Eccord of JUVIDA CUNAN Operation

RECOURRY PLAN for recovery Spocial Forcas

land ocher

Selectod porsonal from operational srade dispatched

to NUlLEA component forces.

Hoverber 1962

5 Noverabez 1962

6 Novecher 1962

7 Novenbar 1962

Cilictale approved dispatch of llatecn detaciment to

COMNAVBASE CUANCANALID

JUVEA changed pesadaries of Ul Arone I and

Ivo Special Forcon "4" Dotnelmenta, schodulod for

infiltration from submrines, Intelated training

coraio fen sulearines VES SEA CIT end USS TIANE

Vicinity of MIrO, Miorida.

CICLAN apProvad JUVITA CONCEPE OU OPENARIORS.

Join: ATSUVIA-AJUVERA Lotr operations comoneod vith

indeructsem, troining, and uso of ClA pesoured ERT-2

Long bascana

Submarino eratning completed and Spocial Forcan Detach-

mente reburned to orA Louk.

TuO SEAL Joon dotechmente (one Officor, Five at each)

propocitioned of kay wast for cupport suaiFA infiltra-

tion and recovery operatione.

clan notitzod by sunta of capavility to provide

il2 quinn winnias for lerine Epodifionary Force &B

ScusA sumeine locione training vicinity NOROLE,

Virginia completed nud persomel rotuned to FT MeG,

N. C.

ARIA Isatoon detrchane (9T "" Det) closod al

LIS MAY BASE CUANPANAND

TVTA requeatad CENCIANE to procure activacion CIA-D

Agrcoment so thet Junità could obeatn access to CIA

developed intoiligence and exteral and intornal nasets

consuene notared to plan for une of commena ana

cyntrol detachment lin CUMA to evercise OFGOU all

committed apecial Forceo.

11

MDP SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32424026 Page 12

---

## Page 13

TOP SECRET

COMTUNTRA CS

18 December 1962

SDEJECT: Alstorical Racord of JOMITA CUBAN Operation

8 November 1962

WHITA dispatched to AFJUMEA proliminary

REQUA

AXR MERSION

mas begfantas S-asy CINCIANT ORZA 912-62?

maber 1962

Plet

tos end preperationa for operation conttoued.

10 Novenber 1562

ĐO

11 November 1962

12 November 1962

13 bovember 1962

I4 Morenber 1962

15' Novenber 1962

16 November 1962

17 November 1962

18 November 1962

19 Novenber 1962

20 Novanber 1962

DO

CONJUNTES roquented two daya subomina Infiltration

ratains la FORMA RitS aren for OPA LOCTA pre-

posittoned Special Forces 'A" Datachmante.

Flaming nod proparatica for oporations continued.

prepostttoned Epactal Forces' "A" Detacha

mis to fort

Presa spen completion aubnartag traiming 16-17

Novenber 1962 .

Ivo Speotal Woreas "A" Detactmonte, tuo SKAE Teau

Detacimenta und Cis observery embarked on milmarine

DES SEA CAT and USS TIRANE FeC KEY WESt, Floridn

for troining in Florida Faye arca.

Planning and preparation for operations contimed.

JUPITA depatched CONAND AND CONTROL PLAN fOr operA-

tion in CUBA, subsequent to DIZ for OFLAM 316-62, to

JUVTTA compoment forces; JUWTA UN staff to be integrated

10 JAT CUIS EQ CNA LAJUGLEA AFJURIEA courand end control

elemente to establieh Jofut Comand Post vicinity SAN

ANTONIO DE 10S HANOS airfield for coordination atr

support operations.

JUWITA disaitod AFJUVETA and ARJUWTiA to establlah) Joint

Cormand Fort at ORA LOCKA, Florida for coordination of

infiltracion, air eupport, and supply and resuppl

from of thmugh ORA LOCRA.

Plecting and preparacion for oporations continued.

DO

DO

12

TOP SECREI

HH 50955

DocId:32424026 Fage 13

---

## Page 14

TOP SECRET

COMTUNITA CS

18 December 1962

SUNJECT: Elstorioal Record of JUNTEA CUBAN Operation

21 Hovendor 1962

AFJUNETA submicted wolght and cube data for deploynent

of command And control elancat to cuit.

22 Bovenber 1962

23 Novembor 1962

24 Hovember 1962

25 November 1962

26 Movenber 1962

27 Hovenber 1962

28 Novorber 1962

29 Novembor 1962

Plumine and preparation for oporatione contimed.

JUNITA dispatched waring order to component forces on

EXERCISE DEVIL'S TRUE; Implonentation on stand-don

I DEFCON § OF CIRCLANT order.

Furposo to testlare

positioning and infiltration phases of JUVIRA OPIAN

314/316-62.

Planning and preparations for operations contirued.

DO

Becommended

Change to Croon Lot in GOKJUVITA QUIAN 314/316-62*

to CINCIANI.

iatribution of DRAFT CONUNTA Contingency

OFLAS 314/316-62 made to CINCLANT, CTICTANT component

headquarters, and JUITA component forces for concurrence,

comenta, and recommendationa.

Proponed Joint Table of Distribution for JUVIFA dispatched

to CINCTAT outlining full vartine complemont, plaming

staff, and cuguentation to bring plaming etaff to full

wartime compleuent.

INCLANt approved EXENCISE DEVIL'S walt Er plauding

mlemntation on CIMlAli approval within 72 hours afto

relaxation fron DEFCON 3.

ARJUVITA mubmitted weight and cube date for deployuent

of communi and control element to ClaA.

Plamins nad preparstions for operations continued.

JUNITA Inforued CINCIANT that EXERCISE DEVIL'S

unbas would be Chroe-day exercise; bit intiltration

ee FORT BRAGG and sea intiltration in LOLITA NEXS ARE

on Del and exercise completed on enfiltration D+2.

CINCLANT ordered erecution BXERCISE DEVIL'S TRIDENT;

E-day designates 30 November 1962.

13

TOP SECRET

HH. 50955 DocId: 32424026 Page 14

---

## Page 15

_TOP SECRET

COMTUWITA CB

18 Docember 1962

SUBJECT: Historical Record of JUWIEA CUBAN Operation

30 Novenber. 1962

CINCLANT confirmed JURTTA relaxation to modified

DETCON S with modifying inatructione to follow.

EXERCISE DEVIL'S TRIDENT Entetated,

i December 1962

CINCIANE instructions for JUliPA stand-down to

DEFCON 5 not yot clarlfied.

4 December 1962

MERCIES DRYIL'S TRIDENT completed. Resulte marginal

because of adverse westher and extremé atmospheric

communication interference.

Enclosuros

A.

Uniticed

B.

Suemary of J2 Activitios

Sunsary of

J3 Aettvlties

stamary of

44 MOLEVIELS

y of J6 Activitiea

EVILETE I. NITE

Cotonel,

WHAD

Chlof of State

TOP SECRET

14

N# 50955

DocId: 32424026

Page

15.

---

