# 198-10004-10208

## Page 1

198-10004-10208

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ARMY

198-10004-10208

CALIFANO PAPERS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

JCS

MILITARY CONTINGENCY PLANNING

DATE: 04/18/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

MILITARY CONTINGENCY PLANNING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IC

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/07/1997

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Califano Papers, Box 6, Folder 9. Plans approved by the JCS for use at NSC Standing Group meeting,

23 April 1963.

JFKRENOW

Department of the Army EO 13528

Declassify

13 Exclude D Exempt

Authority-

I Refer To

v0 1

HW 50955

DooId: 32276193

Page

1

6

---

## Page 2

18 Cpr 63

SECRET

MILITARY CONTINGENCY PLANNING

Plans Approved by the Joint Chiefs of Staff

•1. CINCLANT OPLAN 308-62 - Provides for the air quarantine

of Cuba. This plan can be fully implemented in 72 hours. A range of

actions is contemplated ranging from diversion to attack and destruction

of specified aircraft.

2. CINCLANT OPLAN 312-63 - This plan provides for the rapid

application of air power against Cuba. A series of optional attack plans

are included for added flexibility of response. These options provid!» for:

a. The attack of a single SAM site ("'FIRE HOSE").

b.. The attack of all SAM sites ("'FULL HOUSE").

c. The attack of a specified target system (e. g., commun-

ications system) ("'SHOE BLACK").

d. The attack of all Cuban/Soviet air defenses and anti-

shipping missile capabilities ("ROYAL FLUSH").

e. Execution of OPLAN 312 (which includes a through d

above, plus those targets developed as a result of post strike

reconnaissance) (''RED BLUFF").

Planned reaction time varies from 12 to 72 hours, depending on the

option selected. Before offensive action is taken by the United States under

this plan, it is essential that evacuation of non-combatants from Guani... amo

and reinforcement of the base be initiated.

3. CINCLANT OPLAN 316-63 - Provides for simultaneous coordin-

ated amphibious airborne assault of Cuba, designed to eliminate the Castro/

Communist regime. Planned reaction time from no-warning status is 18

days. This plan includes provisions for a surface blockade/quarantine.

1

ECRET

Copy No..

NN 50955 DooId: 32276193 Page 2

_Copies

DOWNGRADED A 12 YEAR INDERVAUS

NOT AUTOMATICAULY DECUASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200.10

---

## Page 3

SECRET

4. CINCLANT OPLAN 322-62 - Use of Latin American Forces.

Provides for the integration of Latin American forces, should such

forces be offered, and should their acceptance be militarily feasible

and politically desirable.

5. Reconnaissance Plans:

a. "BRASS KNOBS" - U-2 (high level) reconnaissance.

b. "PEG LEG"' - Low level reconnaissance.

c. "GREY WOLF"' - Armed reconnaissance to search for

missing PEG LEG aircraft.

d.' "BLUE MOON" - Reconnaissance to support surface

blockade/quarantine.

Plans or Studies under Review and Development.

1. CINCLANT OPLAN 380-62. Provides for the initiation of

unconventional warfare to foster and support guerrilla operations in

Cuba in connection with OPLANS 312 and 316.

2. Courses of Action Related to Cuba (Case I - Spontaneous

Revolt).

3. Courses of Action Related to Cuba (Case II - Contrived Incident).

4. Consideration of the Use of Latin American Forces in Connection

with U. S. Contingency Plans to Assist Latin American Nations Which May

be Seriously Threatened by a Communist Takeover.

MIR Grepared ly at Staff (Col Gueenwood)

sor use at

NSC Standing G mg

Ltz 23 aur 63.8k9

NW 50955 DocId:32276193 . Page 3

SECRET

---

