# 198-10007-10146

## Page 1

198-10007-10146

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

ARMY

198-10007-10146

RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: AIR FORCE

FROM: JOHN W. CARPENTER, III

TO : V.H. KRULAK

TITLE: TRAINING OF LATIN AMERICANS IN THE UNITED STATES

DATE: 04/19/1963

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LATIN AMERICANS - MILITARY TRAINING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IB; IC

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: Califano Papers, Box 4, Folder 10. Memos re: the Psychological Program Supporting US Policy

Toward Cuba.

JFK Review

Department of the Army EO 135

Declassify - Excluc

D Exempt

Authority_

• Refer To.

v9.1

HH 50955

16

DocId: 32424139 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRETI

19 APR 1963

(U) Training of Latin Anericane in the United States

Major General V. I. Krulak

Chairman, Subconmittee on Cuban Subversion

1, (U) Reference it made to your second working draft of 1T April and

AFXPD letter of 12 Ayril concerning this subject.

2. (S) The addition of pertinent information has improved the second

draft. I note that the actions recormended section is written in such

o werner as to perit some müsunderstanding to readers who are not

knowledgeable on service treining programs and proceduzes.

3. (S) The Air Force has had considerable success in conducting off-duty

programe

At the Air University, for example, faculty members volunteer

to sponsor & foreign atudent and serve a host throughout their training

period, The students are taken on conducted tours to pointe of interest,

Invited on family pieries, and invited into the hones of their hosts.

Language experts are available to help put the students at ease in the

event their English 1o merginal.

Air training command bages and technical

schoole encourage oft base actlvities and current USAr directives encourage

acclimation activities and outline funding procedures to support the programs.

Local businessmen, menbers of the Chambers of Camerce, end verious churches

cooperate end help support the USAF activities for foreign students.

I (3) Your second draft would be improved by including infomation con-

ceming the existing MAP Training Program (MATP) to provide background

material for those who my not be familiar with the progran.. The following

is suggested:

2 •

MAX? is designed to satisty valid training requiremente and is

sufficiently flexible to satiety now qualitative and quantitative require-

ments. Details of the current program con be found in the Western Fentsphere

Section of USAF Military Assistance (PMAT-63-S) Fiscal year 1963 Training

Progran Sumary, published 1 Moy 1962.

D. Avallability of training courses with appropriate detaile as to

location duration etc. y

Is widely publicized throughout Latin America by

the Unified Cormend and Service Mission reprecentation in countries.

c., Mission personnel in-courtry work closely with host Aiz Force

officials to develop a sound training progrem best suited to that countries'

needs in terms of both technical and professional shills.

This close

relaticuship alforis the opportunity to monitor the training of individuals

EXCLUDED FROM AURORAITO RAGRADLIC;

DOD DIR. 5200.10 DOES NOS APPLY

SECRET

00955 DocId: 32121139 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRETI

and recormend progressive creet type programs from badle through advanced

schooling.

d. MArP provides round trip transportation at appratimately $900.00,

living expenses enroute, monthly living allowance, and the cost of course

tution approximately $700.00 for a 10-12 veel course. An additional $480.00

te funded for those individuals requiring English trolning prior to entering

technieal courses.

Latin American participation in USAY MATP to not limited by avallability

of facilitles or capability.

The basic problem is the inability or unwilling-

ness of the latin American Services to participate in or support the existing

programs.

5. (S) The following commente pertaining to specifie recommendation are

submitted for your consideration.

Reference IVa. (1). (a). This type training would be more Justified

if the Individuals could be progrened to attend additional courses prior to

or subsequent to the summer session:

b. Reference IV a (1) (a). The Alr Force does not have a program of

this type in being•

The commente of referenced AIXFD letter apply.

Reference IV. a (2) (3). This peregraph should also recognize the

capability for intelligence type training existing in the other Services:

As steted in ny previous letter, the Air Force can satisfy all know Latin

American Air Force requirements in this ares.

de

Reference IVa (11 (k)+ This action should be specifically identified

with appropriate courses and approached with caution.

Presentations of a

political nature nay have adverse affect on Latin American goverrmento, 1f

obviously emphasized in basic and technical courses. Some goverments are

highly sensitive at any indication that an external source 1e influencing

their Internal political affairs:

Reference IV.b. (2). As suggested in the last paragraph of Tab 1

to my le Anil letter, it seema appropolate that some consideration be ayen

to using the military capability to assist in training personnel, normally

under the direction of AID and State, in the operation of vital facilities.

5. (U) This letter is clacalfied SECRIT because 1t concerns politico-military

Information,

unauthorized disclosure of which could be detrimental to good

Intemationel relations:

JOHN W. CARPENTER, III

Major

General, USAF

Director of Plans

DCS/Plans & Operations

or el en 11 penter SECRET

2

30955 DocId: 32121139 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Mety Fri 19 9gr63-Stale Noom '9514

1030=1200 Tnug Pager :

CIA- egenanhaie o pertice, les poger.

Chase-leugth of tive ex pauded

Clearly that y ricreaned must

addit fuuds-or.

cet prospaun

smumay

type of sbalunent

to viclude

Doue -sere tieiit lurs

-orderos

Magnitude - rerult i

so mauu

nauy penitcet - 20

ve are doing krw.

NW 50955 DocId:32424139 Page 1

---

