# 198-10007-10023

## Page 1

198-10007-10023

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY:

ARMY

RECORD NUMBER :

198-10007-10023

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CALIFANO PAPERS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ARMY

FROM: JAMES K. PATCHELL

TO :

MR. VANCE

TITLE:

SECOND PROGRESS REPORT OF THE SUB-COMMITTEE

DATE: 05/09/1963

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS:

CUBAN SUBVERSION IN LATIN AMERICA

TRAVEL TO CUBA - IMPEDIMENTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IB; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Califano Papers, Box 4, Folder 19. Memo from Patchell to Vance re: the Second Progress Report of

the Sub-committee on Cuban Subversion.

JFK Reviewd

Department of the Army EO 13626

$ Declassify

= Exclude

17 Exempt

Authority

+ MAN To /21 0158-1005

NO STATE OBJECTION

O DECLASSIFICATION

BY.

DATE QI/ 14/1

N9.1

HH 50955

32

DocId: 32424016

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET,

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF THE ARMY

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

May 9, 1963

NOTE FOR MR. VANCE

Attached is copy of Second Progress Report of the Sub-

committee on Cuban Subversion. The Services and ASD/ISA have

concurred in this report with a few minor nonsubstantive sugges.-

tions (these are noted in ink).

• CIA and USIA have concurred. State, however, has objected

on the grounds that certain actions have been taken with respect to

the Alerting System without sufficient authority.

Another meeting of the Subcommittee has been scheduled for

Friday afternoon in order to resolve this difference. I plan to attend

and will report any substantive actions.

tweak. Patchell

James K. Patchell

Lt. Colonel USA

Attachment

As Stated

Petit

NOTED BY

SECRETARY OF THE ARMY

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC REGRADING

SECRET

HH 50955 DocId: 32424016 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

SUB-COMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

4 MAY 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR COMMITTEE MEMBERS

Subject: Second Progress Report of the Sub-Committee

1. Attached for comment is a draft of the Second Progress

Report,

which provides an

account of the actions taken during the month of April by the

several departments and agencies in executing the actions

approved by

the President

on 8 March 1963.

The enclosure to

the report is an essentially verbatim recording of individual

agencies.

2. It is requested

that your comments on the draft re-

none of substance,

and send it to the Cottrell Committee without further meeting

of our group. If substantive suggestions are made, we will

have to have

a meeting.

V. H. KRULAK

Major General, USMC

Chairman

SECRET

GROUP -1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIO

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

HH 50955

DocId: 32424016

Page

3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

DRAFT

SUB-COMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

MEMORANDUM FOR THE INTERDEPARTMENTAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE

ON CUBAN AFFAIRS

SUBJECT:

Second Progress Report, Sub-Committee on Cuban

Subversion

ENCLOSURE:

Progress Achieved during April In Impeding Travel

to Cuba

I. The enclosure hereto summarizes progress made by the several

departments and agencies, during the month of April, in executing

the actions approved by the President on 8 March 1963, to control

the movement of subversives and subversive trainees to and from

Cuba.

2. In addition to the program on control of subversive travel,

action programs were completed in all of the companion areas, and

were forwarded for approval on the dates indicated below:

a. Controls on Movement of Propaganda Material - 14 March 163.

b. Controls on Movement of Arms - 14 March 163.

c. The Organization of @ Caribbean Surveillance System

15 March 163.

d. The Exchange of Intelligence - 25 March 163.

e. Controls on the Movement of Funds - 10 April 163.

I. Training of Latin Americans in the United States -

26 April 163.

3. A significant development during the month of April bearing

on the action programs proposed by the Sub-Committee was the

Ministerial Meeting held In Managua, Nicaragua on 3-4 April

The Managua meeting produced a set of eight resolutions which,

when Implemented, will proceed along the zome major averues as the

action programs proposed by the Sub-Coumittee.

An interdepartmental

team is currently visiting

the Isthmian capitals; consulting with

Ministers of government and authorities designated by them in the

SECRET

HH 50955

DocId: 32424016 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

fields of immigration control, customs control, coastal surveillance

and the organization of a local counter-subversive agency.

For the Sub-Committee:

V. H. KRULAK

Major General,

Chairman

USMO

SECRET

2

50955

DocId: 32424016

Page

---

## Page 6

SECRET

DRAFT

ENCLOSURE

PROGRESS ACHIEVED DURING APRIL IN IMPEDING TRAVEL TO CUBA

1. The Department of State has:

a. Participated in the drafting of a resolution passed at

the 3-4 April Managua Meeting respecting discouragement of

travel of Latin Americans to Cuba for training in subversion.

The text of the resolution is appended hereto.

b. Headed an interdepartmental team currently visiting the

Isthmian capitals whith the objective of securing the fullest

and quickest implementation of all the recommendations agreed

on at Managua. Prior to the departure of the team, Department

of State posts were instructed to inform the host governments

of the trip and to encourage them to identify the kinds and

extent of technical assistance it would be most useful for the

United States to furnish.

c. Caused to be noted in U.S. passports since 1 April

that they are not valid for travel to Cuba.

d. Following an indication that the Bolivian Government

might be willing to increase efforts to impede travel of its

nationals to Cuba, instructed the U.S. Embassy to recommend

that the GOB:

1) Ban travel to Cuba by Bolivian nationals except

for official or special purposes approved by the GOB,

and establish legal penalties for violations;

2) Require Bolivian citizens to have a passport or

other GOB document to travel abroad;

3) Make such document invalid for travel to Cuba unless

specially endorsed;

4) Seek arrangements with third countries which are

Important transit points under which third countries will

assist the GOB in preventing unauthorized travel by Bolivians

SECRET

3

HH 50955

DocId: 32424016 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

and will help identify violators.

e) Drawing on the recommendation in the paper on "The

Movement of Subversives and Subversive Trainees" and other

sources; instructed the non-isthmian posts to encourage host

governments to take additional counter-subversion steps.

Each instruction was tailored to the local situation 1n

the recipient country and included appropriate suggestions

as to strategy which might be used in securing implementation

of the desired actions.

P)e Requested posts In Latin America to encourage host

governments to take appropriate measures to discourage

participation of their nationals in Cuba's May Day cele-

bration and to prevent charter flights from their country

to Cuba for the celebration.

g? Through efforts with various Latin American and other

governments, discouraged participation in the Cuban solid-

arity Congress. U.s. efforts contributed to limiting the

success of the Congress from the Castro-Communist point of

view.

2. The Department of Defense has:

a. Continued the US sea and air surveillance of the

area surrounding Cuba unt1l 25 April 1963, at the same

rate and with the same emphasis as existed prior to that

date. Since 25 April 1963 additional sea surveillance

has been realized between Cuba and Haiti, due to the

stationing of the Caribbean Ready Amphibious Squadron at

the entrance of the Gulf of Gonaives occasioned by the

deterioration of internal conditions within Haiti.

Reports of subversive movement, or suspected subversive

movement, obtained by US survelllance are available for

Immediate transmittal through the US military alerting

system

SECRET

NW 50955

DocId:32424016 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

b. Continued action, at high priority, on the install-

ation of military communications facilities in Latin America.

As of 1 April, a

commercial submarine cable from Florida

to Panama became operational. This cable gives reliable

voice and teletype communications to CINCARIB including

both classified teletype and voice. Negotiations are

continuing in Honduras, Colombia and Ecuador for the

installation of military radio facilities.

Installation

of a multi-channel radio station has been completed in

Costa Rica. A similar facility in Nicaragua is scheduled

for completion by 1 July 1963.

c. Established an Intelligence Center at CARIBCOM Head-

quarters, in connection with the program of surface

surveillance of the Caribbean, for rapid processing and

dissemination to countries concerned, via the American

Ambassadors, of intelligence on the movement of subversives:

Study of the establishment of intelligence centers in the

Caribbean revealed that the Intelligence Center should be

established at Caribbean Command Headquarters and that a

center need not be established at Headquarters, Caribbean

Sea Frontier.

d. Established on 11 April a U.S, military alerting

system operated by CINCARIB and CINCLANT. Pursuant to the

request of the Interdepartmental. Coordinating Committee on

Cuban Affairs the Department of Defense has suspended the use

of the Military Groups in the alerting system and is working

with CIA to reduce duplication of effort to a minimum.

e. Alerted U.S, forces, for the most part within the

Atlantic Command, to be prepared to provide U.S, assistance

in the final interception of shipping in territorial waters

SECRET

5

NH

50955

DocId: 32424016 Page

---

## Page 9

SECRET

upon request by

the country concerned. Currently, forces

are assigned by the unified commander involved, to meet

the

singular problem encountered._Preparations have been made

to respond to a possible requirement in the case of the

Venezuelan ship FERRYMAR III. USS PURDY CURRENTLY

HAS

UNDER SHRVEILLANCE.

Ordered to the Canal Zone a Coast Guard Mobile

Training Team for a period of six months, beginning:

15 May 1963, to provide training, in Spanish, in boat

handling and maintenance

together with surveillance

techniques

to those Central American countries having

40

foot Coast Guard Utility Boats.

In addition, the Mobile

Training Team will assist as required in establishing a

permanent Small Craft Training and Inspection Facility in

the Canal Zone. One 40 foot utility boat has been permanently

assigned to the U.S. Naval Station, Rodman, Canal Zone for

use by the MTT and will be delivered there about 20 June.

3 The Central Intelligence Agency has:

a. Completed its efforts to improve U.S. government

communications in Latin America by the installation of

the remaining two commercial leased circuits into

Guatemala City and Managua, and the stationing on a

permanent basis of

CIA radio operators in Latin

America in replacement of temporary duty personnel:

"In

November 1962, CIA's active radio facilities in

Latin

American capitals

were augmented with on-line crypto-

graphic facilities and temporary personnel to handle the

bulk of all U.S. government communications in the area.

These

facilities, known

as Joint

Communications Centers,

are now being operated by CIA on a 24-hour basis, as a

service to all U.s. government agencies. Latin American

traffic handled by the CIA base radio station near

SECRET

6

HH 50955

DocId: 32424016 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

Washington has increased. from 3,000,000 groups handled

in October 1962 to 15,000,000 groups handled in March

1963.

b. Increased its efforts designed to control the move-

ment of persons, arms and propaganda materials to and

from Cuba.

A summary of actions by country is provided

below:

1) Argentina - Station, in conjunction with the

Embassy, has continued to press the Argentine govern-

ment to enact effective travel control legislation

and to adopt measures recommended by the Special CONSULTATIUE COMMITTEE

ON Security Cc

amittee of the DAS. Information on

Argentines travelling to Cuba is being furnished to

the Argentine government by the station.

Several

potential travellers to Cuba have been spotted and

are being assessed by the station. Information from

three recent returnees from Cuba is being obtained

through debriefings. Station reports that because of

increased Mexican controls, all truly clandestine

travel to Cuba from Argentina is now via Prague.

Che

Guevara's mother was arrested on 23 April upon her

return to Argentina for importing Castro propaganda.

2) Bolivia - Station and Embassy have been urging

Bolivian government to adopt stricter travel controls,

without apparent results

so far.

Names of travellers

known to have returned from Cuba are being furnished

to the Bolivian government.

Thus far, no action is

known to have been taken by the Bolivian government on

the strength of such information. Station comments that

problem with Bolivia is not in lack of information

available to government on Cuban subversion, but in

getting Bolivia to do something about it.

SECRET

:7

HH 50955

DocId: 32424016 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

3) Brazil - Information on Brazilians who have

received subversive training in Cuba has been made

available to the Brazilian Foreign Office, through the

American Ambassador, and to the National Security

Council through CIA liaison with the NSC's Security

Service.

An asset of the CIA station in Rio is in a position

to harass and delay. Cuba-bound travellers in those

instances where the Station is able to tip him off

regarding their destination. He can also harass

returnees when informed in advance.

The Station is

taking steps to get appropriate information

to him

promptly.

4) Chile - Chilean internal security authorities,

at urging of

station, are trying to impede and harass

travellers to and from Cuba. Government is now requiring

passport applicants to state destination, and passports

must be turned in after travel. The Foreign Minister

has stated much progress is being made, with cooperation

of the Mexican government, and that travel of Chileans to

Cuba has been dramatically. reduced in recent.weeks.

Station and Embassy are continuing pressure on Cuban

government in this regard. Names of travellers to Cuba

are being passed to the Ambassador, who furnishes them

to President Alessandri (who has asked

that this collab

oration be

kept secret): Information from CIA unilateral

operations against Cuban Embassy is. being used by a newly

created Chilean surveillance. team. in checking

out purpose

of travel projected and in following up on returnees from

Cuba.

The station has an agent in daily contact with

leaders of the extreme militant left and is exploring

SECRET

8

50955

DocId: 32424016 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECRET

the possibilities of sending three station assets to

Cuba for training

and

intelligence missions.

A Cuban

First Secretary was declared personal non grata during

April for using false identity documents, and the Cuban

charge d'affaires was

subsequently recalled by his own

government.

5) Colombia - Chief: of Customs has indicated to station

his willingness

to institute an improved travel control

system.

One station asset expects to travel to. Cuba

in the near future.

Station believes

it has identified

a courier operating between Colombia and Cuba and has

mounted an operation to uncover his Colombian contacts.

6) Costa Rica - Station reports little pro-Castro

activity during April. No recorded travel to or from

Cuba has taken place. Local authorities appear inclinea

to cooperate in control program.

7) Dominican Republic - Efförts to get Juan Bosch to

•take active steps against Communists and travellers to

and from Cuba have been fruitless to date, as have been

efforts to establish a new and effective internal security

organization in the Dominican Republic. Bosch appears

to have lost his

previously stated enthusiasm for such

a service, but efforts to

persuade him to approve a

proposed budget for the service are continuing.

8) Ecuador - Station reports that, largely as

of both overt and covert propaganda activities of u.s.

result

agencies in Ecuador, the public awareness of Cuban sub-

version has changed from apathy to genuine concern.

The

government, however, is no more inclined to take action

than before.

The National Director of Immigration has

stated that he personally would like to do whatever he

SECRET

9

NN 50955

DocId: 32424016 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

can

to stop travel to Cuba, which he realizes id for

subversive purposes, but present laws do not permit him

to impede travel via thira countries. He 16 exploring

possibilities of reprisals against citizens who reburn

from Cuba: He has checked a list of names and passport

numbers obtained by CIA from airline manifests in Mexico,

and reports that not one name or passport number corres

ponds with official Eucadoran recorde, indicating the

possibility of fabrication of passports by Cuba.

A recent Ecuadoran returnée from Cuba, recruited by

the station, lost his hand

in testing

a homemade. bomb

made in accordance with instructions

received in Cuba.

He made a

public statement and wide publicity was

arranged.

by the

station and USIS. Plans are to keep thie

incident alive as

proof.of

revolutionary trining given

in Cuba for terrorist activity in leuador.

The station chief has accompanied the American

Ambassador on visits to

the Ecuadoran Ministers of Defense

and Government to stress

the threat. of Cuban backed

subversion.

Approximately 7,000 pounds of Communist propaganda

are being. destroyed monthly as a result of a unilateral

operation of the CIA Base in Guayaquil.

9) Haiti - Station reports that several assets have.

travelled to points outside Port-au-Prince in an effort

to learn of possible travel to and from Cuba, Reporte

from areas of Capt Haitien, Port de Paix. and Ta Conave

and La Tortue Islands, were negative.

10) Honduras - The government has shown ltttle inclination

to tighten up on travel control.

A travel control systen

presented to the Minister of dovernment has been fully

SECRET

10

NW 50955 DocId:32424016 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET.'

approved by him, but not yet put into effect, Several

known Honduran Communists have recently travelled to

Cuba. Information as to their identities is being fur-

nished to President Villeda through the U.S. Ambassador.

• 11) Mexico - A CIA source states. the Cuban Embassy, has

issued 10-15 visas during April on pieces of paper

separate from the passport, but the government's practice

of

stamping

all passports

to.show.tragel. to.or from Cuba

has largely nullified

this

effort by travellers to. avoid

the stigma of travel to Cuba. All Cubans arriving in

Mexico, whether in transit or otherwise must have Mexican

visas.

This is not true of other nationalities, who need

no visa if in transit. The government continues to

confiscate propaganda material from Cuba sporadically at

the airport. The government recently refused

visas. to

five Cuban doctors who wished to attend a Urology Congress

in Mexico. •Several station assets have recently traveiled

to Cuba for intelligence purposes.

. 12) Panama - At the urging of station, the Guardia

Nacional has been ordered to increase its vigilance concern

ing returnees from Cuba and to prevent them from establish

ing an effective organization. Several recent returnees

from Cuba are being debriefed regarding their training and

contacts, and several CIA assets are expecting to leave

for Cuba

in the near future for training. CIA has

increased its

personnel assigned to travel control functions

at the Panama City airport, now permitting a three-man

detail for each eight-hour shift.

Station

1e. continuing

ice pressure on Panamanion officials to tighten travel

controls.

SECRET

11

NW 50955

DocId: 32424016 Page 14

---

## Page 15

SECRET

13) Uruguay - Station has made arrangements with local

service to pigeonhole or "lose" applications for good

conduct certificates - which are needed to secure pas

ports, and must be renewed every. six months - in cases

where information from the CIA station or from the

Uruguayans' own sources indicated intention of

travelling to Cuba.

Pertinent information from CIA

unilateral operations is being passed regularly to

cooperating Uruguayan officials. Station has a furcher

check in that the Mexican Ambassador to Uruguay 15 now

checking all applicants for Mexican visas with

the

station. On the basis of information furnished

to. him,

he held

up visa applications of Uraguayari. Communist

Labor delegates who planned to attend May Day celebrations

in Havana. Creation of this bottleneck may force some

travellers to abandon the Mexican route to Cuba and turn

to the longer and far more expensive route via Prague.

Information on past travel to Cuba by. Uruguayans, furnished

by the station, was included in a study of Cuban sub-

•version prepared by Uruguayan Military Intelligence

Service for the National Council of Government.

4. The U.S. Information Agency has:

a. Sent circular instructions to all USIS field

posts

in Latin America advising each to stimulate publicity

in

the local

press and radio, to encourage identification

of Cuban trainees through personal-contact

work with

studerts

and labor, to report promptly evidence

of Cuban

aided subversion

in each

country, to

report

statements. by

local

Leaders

and editorial comment, and to publicize

economic conditions in Cuba as

means

of

discrediting

travellers to Cuba.

The Agency's Washington media

were

issued a

detailed guidance onithe subject on

28. March.

SECRET

12,

NH 50955

DocId: 32424016

Page 15

---

## Page 16

SECRET

b. In addition to the regular news reporting (VOA)

•of the Managua Ministers' Meeting, broadcast 15 commen-

taries and features on the subject of Cuban subversion

to Latin America during the month of April. Among these

were a dramatization based on

the

story of an Ecuadorean

boy who was attacked by communists

in Guayaquil for carrying

anti-communist film, a chronology. of subversive acts

involving Cuban diplomats,

and

a history

of

subversion

from the Trojan

horse through Nazi fifth columns to

present-day Cuban subversion.

c. Transmitted by teletype 13 articles on Cuban

subversion during April to USIS posts throughout Latin

American for placement in the local press.

These

included news stories, commentaries, and backgrounders.

Among the subjects treated were the Managua Meeting, the

Guayaquil incident, the story of an Ecuadorean terrorist

trained in Cuba who was wounded by his own explosives.

Assistant Secretary Martin's Pan American Day speech,

and several commentaries on training in Cuba. The

Agency's publications center in Mexico also published

a pamphlet based

on the defection of the Guatemalan

ex-communist leader Carlos Manuel Pellecer, including

letters in which he revealed communist subversive

tactics.

SECRET

13

NW 50955

DocId: 32424016

Page

16

---

## Page 17

SECRET •

DRAFT

APPENDIX

RESOLUTION I PASSED AT THE 3-4 APRIL MANAGUA MEEJING OF MINISTERS

The Meeting of Ministers of Government, Interior and Security

convoked pursuant to the pertinent section of the

Declaration

of Central America signed by the Presidents

of the seven countries

in San Jose, Costa Rica on March 19, 1963.

AGREES

To recommend to their Governments

that they

adopt, within

the limitations of their respective constitutional provisions,

measures to be put into effect immediately, to prohibit,

restrict and discourage the movement of their nationals to and

from Cuba. To this end, they propose the adoption of the

following measures:

(1) Provide, as a general rule, that every passport or

other travel document which may be issued carry a stamp

which indicates that said

passport is not valid for travel

to Cuba..

(2) Declare officially that nationals who are permitted

to travel to Cuba should have the permission duly inscribed in

their official travel document.

(3) Promulgate regulations restricting the granting.of

visas to foreigners who have travelled to Cuba within

stipulated period of time.

(4) Notify travel agencies and transport companies of

these measures for due compliance; and inform the governments

of other countries through

the

most appropriate neans.

(5) Request the Governments of the Hemisphere:

aj not to allow the nationals of signatory

countries

to travel to Cuba unless they possess a valid passport or

other document issued by their country of origin valid for

such travel;

SECRET

14

HH 50955

DocId: 32424016 Page 17

---

## Page 18

SEORET.

b) not to accept visas, tourist cards or other

documents issued to their nationals for travel to Cuba

which do not form an integral (non-detachable) part of

their passports of other travel documents;

c) to observe the limitations placed in the passports

or other travel documents of the nationals of signatory

governments and not allow them to depart for Cuba;

d) to inform the signatory countries through appropriate

channels of refusals to allow one of their nationals to

depart for Cuba; and

e) to provide the signatory governments the names

of their nationals which may appear on the passenger 11st

of any airplane or ship going to or coming from Cuba..

SECRET

15

50955

DocId: 32424016

Page 18

---

