# 198-10007-10026

## Page 1

198-10007-10026

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY:

ARMY

RECORD NUMBER :

198-10007-10026

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CALIFANO PAPERS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

CIA

[Restricted]

MR. CALIFANO

TITLE:

BIOGRAPHIC SUMMARIES ON OFFICERS OF THE CUBAN REBEL ARMY IN EXILE AND

RECOMMENDATION FOR THEIR TRAINING IN U.S. SERVICE SCHOOLS OR TRAINING

CENTERS

DATE: 03/29/1963

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

CUBAN OFFICERS IN EXILE - TRAINING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Not Marked

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Califano Papers, Box 2, Folder 11. Letter from [withheld] to Califano re: training of Cuban officers in

JFK Revicu

epartment of the Army EO 1352

* Declassify = Exclude fa Exemp

v9.1

NW 50955

DocId:32424019

Page 1

35

---

## Page 2

die. ..*.

"....e

Miami, Florida

29 March, 1963

Dear Mr. Califano:

In my conversation early this week with Dr.

Miro Cardona and DI. Ernesto Aragon, who has been spending a

you did not have

sew days here, I was told taebel away" under the impression that

officers and their bio-

graphic sketches.

As you have been told Dr. Miro would like

have a few of them included in the training of Cuban officers.

In my various memoranda to Washington on this subject I have

made recommendations in this regard and have sent lists and bio-

prahies.

Cuban officers that have been discussed and included in memoran

da. to you, it is little wonder that you should be confused on

this matter and not realize that the names of a number of these

officers were among those sent to you, along with my memorandum

to you of 12 January, 1963 and the one of 23 January, 1963.

However, as these lists and bhographic sketches

may have been sent on to other offices or erroniously filed, I am

including herewith copies of the biographies which I have had

made, these being split into two groups for the reasons indicated

on the covering memos.

I am also including a paraphrase of my or-

iginal memo of transmittal on these, dated 12 June, 1962.

names of several officers among the

category who

Dr. Miro considers would be suitable to send to the anti-guerilla

operations course in Panama.

I do: not seem to have a copy of

that memo but I recall that Ricardo Lorie was one of those he

recommended. I suggested that four to six officers be sent to

that course,

including some regular (professional) officers and

"rebel" or"Liberation Army"

officers.

If I can be of further assistance, please

call

on me.

ery truly yours,

1 Dracon

HW 50955

DooId: 32424019

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Miami, Florida

29 March, 1963

Subject: Blographic Summaries on Officers of the Cuban Rebel

Army in Exile and Recommendation for their Training in

U.S. Service Schools or Training Centers.

Following is a paraphrase and summary of a memorandum of

transmittal which I sent through my channels to Washington on

12 June, 1962, along with biographic sketches of "Rebel" officers,

copies of which are enclosed herewith:

Dr. Jose Miro Cardona,

President of the Cuban Revolutionary Council has declared frequent

ly that he would llke to have some of the officers of the Cuban Re-

bel Army in Exile trained In U.S. Service Schools after or during

the training of regular officers of the Cuban Armed Forces, who

are now in exile.

On 29 May at a meeting in Miami with a Representative of the

Department of Defense and Dr. Miro, the matter of training officers

of the Rebel Army (Army that fought in the campaigns against

Batista, under Castro) who are anticommunist and are now in exile,

A few days later, DI. Miro and his military assistant, at

that time Captain Ernesto Despaigne, brought me biographical sketch-

es of 48 officers of the Rebel Army, who are now in exile, almost

all having participated in the campaigns of Castro in 1958, and

some also saw action in the 1961 invasion of Cuba.

These officers occupied positions from 2nd lieutenant to

captain and

two were majors (comandante) in the Rebel Army.

Their

educational background is extremely varied. Some are university

graduates, some had a year or two of university, some finished se-

condary school. On other biographiesn no education entry is shown;

this may be an oversight in some instances, but in many cases it

may Indicate little or no education - possibly only a few years of

primary schooling.

There are, however, enough of these men with

adequate educational background to be able to attend and profit

from a training course.

readily take an officers everal of those in this group could

course at

a school such as the Infantry

School, Et. Benning, Georgia.

Although 1t seems

desirable to train the maximum number of prof.

Cuban Army officers, it would undoubtedly be advantageous for the

future of Cuba and for such action as may be taken at a future

date against the Castro-communist regime, to train some of these

officers who must have shown leadership ability in the revolution

ary campaigns.

Hence It Is recommended that consideration be giv

training some of these officers in training facilities of

the U.S. Army, such as Fort Benning, Georgia and the courses for

American Officers in jungle warfare and anti-guerilla opera

tions in Panama.

Inclosure: Biographies of Cuban "Rebel Army" officers.

AW 50955 DocId:32424019 Page 3

---

## Page 4

29 March, 1963

ADDITIONAL LIST OF "REBEL ARMY" OFFICERS AMONG

CUBAN EXILES

The attached biographic sketches were among the 48 trans-

mitted to Washington, 12 June, 1962, but were not included 1n

a revised list and biographies forwarded in November, 1962, re-

turned to Miami, subsequently, and then resubmitted directly to

Mr. Callfano by

12 January, and 23 January, 1963.

Accordingly it 1s belleved that this list of names and the at

tached biographies, corresponding thereto, should not be given

consideration for training, at least not until after those on

Iist B submitted on 12 January, 1963, and followed by biographies

therefore on 23 January, 1963.

Attached are biographies of:

Roudo Rosell Del Rio

Manuel Rodriguez Treto

Jorge De Moya y Fernandez Marcado

Jose Antonio Rodriguez Del Rio

Aristedes Mendoza Amita.

Jorge Marban Leyva

Eugenio Albo Perez

Jorge Roberto Arencibia

Eduardo Perez Gonßalez

Rodolfo Betancour y de Mateo

Arnaldo Gaston Bringuez Fernandez

Antonio Bustillo Perez

Osvaldo Carrasco Leon

Ariel Diaz Arce

Francisco Diaz de Armas

Gaspar Gimenez

Jorge Gomez Vera

Hector Hoces

Jose Lopez Castillo

Roberto Parson Ramirez

Jose Orlando Rivas Melo

Juan Tamayo Cordoviz

NW 50955

DocId: 32424019

Page 4

---

## Page 5

29 March, 1963

LIST OF"REBEL ARMY" OFFICERS AMONG CUBAN EXILES

The attached biographic sketches include names shown on

"Ilst B, Officers of Rebel Army" transmitted by Memorandum for

Mr. Joseph A. Callfano, JI., dated 12 January, 1963, Subject:

"Training of Cuban Officers in Exile.

•on that list are not included in the attached biographic sketches.

It is belleved, however, that the missing biographic sketches

were included with the ones I transmitted by Memorandum for Mr.

Joseph Callfano, Jr.

, dated 23 January, 1963, Subject: Trans-

mittal of List of Officers of 2506 Brigade and Biographies of

Officers on Lists A, B and C.

Attached are biographies of:

Ricardo Lorie Valls

maureano relipe Gutierrez Falla

Rafael Ribas Hechavarria

Eduardo Gutierrez Falla

Rafael German Candia Cervera

Juan Tamayo Cardoniz

Pedro Salas

Salvador Aldereguia Orse

Luls Barcena Serrano

Rafael Cieza Diaz

Eduardo Martinez Munoa

Jose Manuel Santiesteban Pavon

Jorge De Moya Fernandez Marcaio

Mario Gutierrez Mir

Jose Antonio Lao Coba

Blas Gilberto Pascual Salvador

Luis C. Posada Carriles

Juan Manuel Rodriguez Pineda

Pablo Manuel Duasso

Delgado

Esteban Bernabe Sanchez Poccio

Fernando. Ojeda Alvarez

Jaime Gomez Veraz

Antonio Crespi Larralde

NN 50955

DocId: 32424019

Page 5

---

