# 198-10006-10005

## Page 1

198-10006-10005|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY: ARMY

RECORD NUMBER:

198-10006-10005

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CALIFANO PAPERS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

JCS

TITLE:

CUBA - THE MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA MATERIALS (FIRST WORKING DRAFT)

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/00/1963

21

COUNTERING CUBAN PROPAGANDA

KRULAK COMMITTEE

PROPAGANDA MEDIA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IB

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/11/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder Il. Draft of JCS study on the dissemination of Cuban propaganda and

possible US moves to counter it.

JFK Assassinsten Records Review

Dient of the do 3526

Exclude D Exempt

Ey Refer To -

v9.1

NH 50955

DocId: 32423820

Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

ry.i

ITHT

50955

DoOTd: 32423820

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

FIRST WORKING DRAFT FOR REVIEW AND COMMENT

CUBA

MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA MATERIALS

I.

Introduction

The actions proposed herein are designed to impede the

movement of Communisi propaganda materials from Cuba to and

within Latin American countries. As in the program which

addresses the problem of movement of subversive trainees to

and from Cuba, the successful execution of the proposals

will materially reduce the flow of propaganda, but will not

eliminate it entirely.

Communist Cuba has many legitimate outlets through which

propaganda materials

flow. By eliminating these outlets, and

by physically isolating Cuba from

the remainder of Latin

America, Communist propagandists and their sympathizers will

be forced to rely more heavily upon production and dissem-

ination of propaganda materials in a clandestine environment

within each Latin American country, with a consequent in

crease in difficulty.

II. Nature and Scope of the Problem

The total propaganda capability of the Castro regime

includes not only the physical novement of materials printed

SECRET

1

NH 50955 DocId: 32423820 Page 3

---

## Page 4

evalua

SECRET

in Cuba itself, but also the less detectable and controllable

movement of funds and guidance to pro-Castro elements who

locally print and distribute materials or carry out propa-

ganda operations through other media such as radio and

television. In this broad sense, "movement of propaganda

materials" therefore includes small quantities, even single

copies, of selected publications which are handcarried into

a given country by legal or illegal travelers for subsequent

reproduction; it also includes larger quantities of materials

transmitted through Cuban and Soviet Bloc diplomatic Instal

lations, shipments via postal channels, large or small

quantities introduced through smuggling operations (that

might also involve the movement of arms), oral transmission

of propaganda guidelines by individual travelers or by

Radio Havana, and the dissemination of slanted news by Prensa

Latina for pick-up and replay by a wide variety of local

outlets.

Humit

The general receptivity to Cuba propaganda materials

has been minimal in Latin America, even in those countries

where the Communist Party is legal. Propaganda efforts are

"limited by low membership and poor financial support of

Communist Parties and Cuban front groups. In addition,

Castro/Communists are faced with competition from liberal,

SECRET

2

NH 50955 DocId: 32423820 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

social-reform movements and the growing activity of the

Catholic Church in the field of social reform. Nevertheless,

means of transmission and dissemination of propaganda materials

are impressive by their number and variety.

Though more intelligence is needed on the volume of

printed propaganda being transmitted from Cuba by air and sea

to other Latin American countries, it is possible to curtail

the bulk of these movements by controls already established,

or feasible. In Panama, for example, postal and customs

authorities are destroying an average of 12 tons of Cuban

propaganda

per month. Another ten tons, from the unknown

quantity which enters Costa Rica each month, Is spotted in the

post office or the airport and destroyed. Unfortunately,

Castro and his mentors probably realize this, and as time

goes by they will rely more and more on the transmission of

thematic guidance only, to be exploited locally by front

groups, Communist Parties, sympathetic journalists and radio/

television commentators, and possibly clandestine radio

transmitters. Training of subversives in Cuba already includes

instruction in the tactics and techniques of psychological

warfare, and as more trainees return to their homelands the

volume of locally produced propaganda may be expected to rise.

SECRET

3

NH 50955

DocId: 32423820

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

However, these local propagandists are not totally

dependent on Cuba for either support or guidance. In some

countries, such as Mexico and Argentina, there are commercial

printing establishments, radio stations, periodicals, and

newspapers that regularly print or broadcast pro-Castro

materials as a matter of policy or ideological conviction.

In other countries, notably Venezuela, there 1s relatively

Iittle proof of direct Cuban involvement in subversive/

propaganda activity. This is in keeping with the communist

principal that whenever possible guerrillas/subversives should

be self-sustaining.

Cuban Rado Activities

Shortwave radio is the only principal direct and mass

audience medium available to Cuba to carry subversive pro

paganda to Latin America, and maximum use is made of 1t.

The Castro regime officially inaugurated its international

broadcasting service (Radio Havana) on May 1, 1961, and has

constantly increased its broadcast time so that now it is

transmitting at total of 115:30 hours per week to Latin

America (108:30) in Spanish and seven in Portuguese). In

addition, Cuban standard wave broadcasts can be heard inter-

mittently in much of the Caribbean area.

SECRET

4

NH 50955 DocId: 32423820 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

Time is regularly allotted on Radio Havana to such groups

of foreign nationals residing in Cuba as the so-called

"Dominican Liberation Movement", the "Peruvian Ant1-Imperiallst

Movement"

', the "Honduran Liberation Movement" and the "Guatemalan

Information Committee". All of these broadcasts incite their

listeners to revolt against their present governments. In the

aftermath of the October crisis, the Cuban broadcasts have

grown increasingly explicit in their attempts to incite violence.

In recent months, the Venezuelan Government of Romulo Betancourt

has been the target of very heavy Cuban attack, and special

programs beamed to the Dominican Republic have been attacking

President Bosch,

Communists and other Castro agents have been singularly

unsuccessful in placing radio material on local medium wave

stations in Latin America and they do little or no television

placement. Their prime medium is short wave broadcasting.

Press and Publications

Despite restrictions imposed by many Latin American

nations, Communist printed materials [rom Havana, Moscow and

Peking still move fairly easily in the area. The Cuban

Embassies in the five countries still maintaining diplomatic

relations with the Castro regime supplement the long-established

Soviet propaganda channels through their Mexico City, Montevideo

and Buenos Aires Embassies. Cuban binational centers and

SECRET

5

NH 50955 DocId: 32423820

Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

similar front organizations serve as reception and dissemination

points for Cuban

propaganda materials. To carry its propaganda

message to Latin America, Cuba greatly increased its output of

periodicals and other publications directed at both mass and

specialized audiences. More than 30 different Cuban periodicals

circulate in the Hemisphere includings Bohemia, Verde Olivo

and Trabajo which enjoy wide circulation. It is not possible

to estimate the amount of Cuban printed material that is smuggled

into the other American Republics.

In addition to the use of Cuban diplomatic missions,

Communist Parties, binational centers and other front groups,

there are some 228 publishing houses and bookstroes which serve

as outlets for these Cuban publications in all Latin American

countries except Dominican Republic, Paraguay, Nicaragua,

and Venezuela. Many of these offer books and publications at

very low prices or give away two or three books with the purchase

of one, and easy credit terms are available to anyone showing

an interest in the Cuban publications.

Decrees banning Communist activity and propaganda have

not prevented the continued clandestine publication and dis-

tribution of a number of periodicals, books and other printed

materials in some countries, notably Argentina. The Argentina

SECRET

6

IT 50955

DooId: 32423820 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

cooperative distributor CODILIBRO (Cooperativa Distributidora

de Libros), which 1s the Hemisphere's largest distributor of

Communist books, serves most of the Communist/Castro publishers

of Argentina. The Communist publishing house in Uruguay,

Ediciones Pueblos Unidos (EPU), also serves as an important

outlet for Castro/Communist propaganda:

Excluding TASS and New China News Agency (NCNA), Prensa

Latina, the official Cuban news agency, is the principal

Communist fast news agency operating in Latin American, and

its services are used by media of far-left or overt Communist

orientation. Prensa Latina is operating openly but not entirely

without restriction in ten Latin American countries --

Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Costa Rica, Honduras,

Mexico, Panama and Uruguay. Although its users are limited

chiefly to the above-mentioned media, in some countries there

is fairly extensive unattributed use of Prensa Latina releases,

especially in radio. There are 326 Communist and pro-Communist

newspapers and periodicals in Latin America. Infiltration

of the democratic press and the non-critical attitude of some

newspapermen help give wider diffusion of the Cuban propaganda

line.

SECRET

IT 50955

DocId: 32423820 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

F1]ms

Feature films and short documentaries

relating to the

Cuban revolution produced by the Cuban Institute of Motion

Picture Art and Industry (ICAIC) play a more direct propaganda

role than the films imported from the Bloc countries. Since

the Cuban films tend to stress propaganda rather than art,

and are, moreover, subject to confiscation because of 1llegal

importation, their showings have been limited primarily to

the binational centers and pro- Communist labor and student

groups, and to private or clandestine meetings.

Cultural Activities

Penetration under the guise of "cultural" activities is

a highly favored Communist propaganda technique in Latin

America. There are 64 Cuban binational centers and friend-

ship societies in the area. These vary in size and strength

from mere paper organizations to active fronts such as exist

in Mexico. These organizations serve as selection points for

scholarships to Cuba. Current examples of the use of these

front groups for Castro propaganda purposes are the upcoming

"Continental Congreas of Solidarity with Cuba" which

is

scheduled to meet in Rio de Janeiro in mid-March and the "Latin

American Youth Congress" scheduled for Santiago, Chile.

SECRET

8

NH 50955 DocId: 32423820 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

In addition, the various Cuban front groups are cur

rently participating actively in the formation of the pro-

posed Single Center of Latin American Workers, a pro-Cuban

labor confederation.

It will be seen from this brief review of the nature and

scope of the problem that Cuba is not only exporting propa-

ganda materials, but is also exporting ideas, know-how, and

funds which are effectively used by local collaborators or

sympathizers in making the materials effective.

It is clear that actions needed to control the movement

of propaganda are closely related to, or in some cases 1den-

tical with, those taken to control the movement of persons

and funds.

For example, the severance of diplomatic relations

between Cuba and the remaining Latin American Governments

which recognize the Castro regime would substantially reduce

the flow through Cuban diplomatic channels of funds and

guidance involved in the local production of propaganda.

Similarly, the proposed exchange of intelligence information

on subversion, restrictions on the issuance of exit visas,

aIr and sea shipping controls, and expanded intelligence cover-

age of subversive activities would reduce local production as

well as the flow of material from Cuba.

SECRET

9

NH 50955 DocId: 32423820 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECRET

III. Direct Actions to Impede Legitimate Movement

Presented below is a summary of actions contemplated to

impede legally executed movement of propaganda materials from

Cuba to and within Latin American countries. For the purpose

of this paper, legitimate movement is characterized as move-

ment by recognized private and governmental carriers and

communications as well as postal systems and diplomatic pouching.

Propaganda materials include radio program scripts and record-

ings, printed materials (posters, pamphlets, magazines, leaf-

lets, books, newspapers), news service output, motion pictures,

equipment (duplicating or reproducing equipment, electronic

communications equipment, and spare parts therefore) and

supplies, especially paper stockpiles.

I. Immediate Impact Actions

The following actions offer promise of producing early

and effective results.

a. Intelligence Actions

(1) Intensify US intelligence efforts in each

ountry to identify individuals and organization

involved in propaganda importation, reproduction,

and/or dissemination; make available to each country

selected intelligence concerning the extent of these

individuals, organizations, and their activities.

prosite

SECRET

so tunitch - interrif, ete

NH 50955

DocId: 32423820 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

cham

ClA

T2) Encourage each country to offer rewards for

information leading to interception of Communist

propaganda materials.

(3) Expose, discredit and harass persons who

visit Cuba in order

discourage travel to Cuba

delete

in connection with the morement of propaganda

preceden

it.

materiats.

(4) By covert neha cause disiption in the sea lot

production and distribution of propaganda materials,

and in the procurement and delivery of related

supplies and

b.

Administrative Actions

(1) Induce(each) Latin American Country to:

(a) Limit or exclude the activities of Prensa

Latina and other nostite medta

by denial of

license to operate, disruption of distribution

channels and pressures to reduce the number of

subscribers.

• (b) Organize surveillance and execute close

, control over in-country sources of newsprint and

related supplies needed to reproduce locally

propaganda materials received from Cuba.

SECRET

11

NY 50955

DocId: 32423820 Page 13

---

## Page 14

C

SECRET

area

wud

Poor

(c) Maintain or increase economic pressures

on mecia owners, local advertising agencies,

and film producers and/or distributors who

accept Communist materials; increase

pressures

on local businessmen who advertise in media

which carry pro- Communist materials.

(2) Increase pressures on US business men and

firms advertising in Latin American media which

carry pro-Communist materials. Prepare, and

circulate to US firms for information, lists of

such media.

(3) Provide technical assistance to Latin

American countries to improve postal and customs

inspection procedures, and encourage them to

establish or improve censorship ana inspection

of mail, baggage and other shipments from Cuba;

assist them in developing better control of

clandestine border crossings and smuggling

operations as they relate to movement of propaganda.

c. Actions Related to Common Carriers

Request Western Hemisphere nations to close

their ports to shipping

engaged in making Cuban

ports of call.

ottur

paper

SECRET

12

NH 50955 DocId: 32423820 Page 14

---

## Page 15

SECRET

Place

d. Propaganda Actions

Initiate or intensify public information

programs throughout Latin America designed to:

(1) Harass or eliminate Castro/Communist

organized or sponsored cultural, industrial

and agricultural exhibits in other countries.

(2) Encourage and assist local governments

and civic groups to expose and discredit

Communist propaganda activities, organizations

and persons involved in these activities.

(31 Focus unfavorable publicity on the use

of transit

facilities in Mexico, Uruguay,

Brazil and Chile for the movement of propaganda

materials from Cuba.

2. Longer fange Actions

The following actions should also be undertaken

without delay. Their ultimate results may be of far-

reaching importance, but probably will bejonger in

realization.

a. Political Actions

stir

quea

0

toge

SECRET

13

NY 50955

DocId: 32423820 Page 15

---

## Page 16

SECRET

(1) Negotiate with Latin American governments to

maintain close surveillance and control over Cuban

mission propaganda activities which violate

diplomatic standards.

(2) Conduct bilateral negotiations with

Argentina, Uruguay, and Brazil to impede

printing of Communist propaganda materials

in Tocal printing plants.

3 Conduct negotiations with non- communist c

governments of countries sort ud

restand neutes

governments of countries

selling equipment,

spare parts, and supplies to Cuba for the

purpose of causing the delay

or cessation of

further shipments.

b. Intelligence Actions

(1) In separate diplomatic approaches to each

country, urge full and effective cooperation with

the OAS Special Consultative Committee on Security,

and bilaterally among the several nations, in the

interchange of information concerning movement of

propaganda materials.

SECRET

14

NH 50955 DocId: 32423820 Page 16

---

## Page 17

C

SECRET

(2) Persuade each Latin American country to

report promptly to the diplomatic mission of the

country concerned the identity of any national

of that country who arrives from Cuba and who is

exposed to have been carrying propaganda materials.

• c. Acministrative Actions

As applicable, induce each Latin American

country to:

(1) Adopt laws which would provide severe

penalties for any person engaging in the

dissemination of Cuban Communist propaganda

Outlaw Communist propaganda media, in-

cluding newspapers, magazines, and books,

produce re list bute within their countries.

(3) Deny seating of Cuban delegates to

international meetings held in Latin America.

(Delegates are propaganda disseminators.)

(4) Inhibit spread of Cuban Friendship

Societies in Latin America by an active program

to expose their subversive

activities and

objectives. (Key members

are propaganda

disseminators.)

SECRET

15

ITT 50955

DooId: 32423820 Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECRET

(5) Offer rewards or other inducements to

printing craftsmen to deface, destroy, or

misinterpret Castro/Communist propaganda

in the process of reproduction.

d. Actions Related to Common Carriers

Conduct negotiations with the Netherlands,

Mexico, Canada,

and Spain to persuade these countries

to stop all commercial aiy line flights to Cuba;

enlist the cooperation of other Western Hemisphere

countries nomally providing terminal services

for any of the airlines involved, such as Venezuela

and Trinidad, in applying pressure.

e. Propaganda Actions

(1) Organize and conduct lobbying activities

to influence complacent Latin American governments

to adopt staunch anti-Communist attitudes.

SECRET

16

NH 50955

DocId: 32423820 Page 18

---

## Page 19

ctro

Will n

C

SECRET

swall

X6

(2) Complete and distribute

through United States

Minted nortentat and

Military Groups, anti-Communist /flim strips for use

In Latin American troop education programs, th order

to indoctrinate security forces with the need to

counter Cuban propaganda and related subversive

activities.

I. Sabotage Actions

(1) Organize a covert sabotage effort to disable

printing and radio broadcasting installations In Cuba;

sabotage paper stockpiles in Cuba.

(2) In Latin American countries, promote sabotage

of equipment in local media and printing houses that

regularly publish pro-Communist propaganda.

3. Organization of American States (OAS) Actions

a. Seek adoption by the OS of a revolution calling

upon all member states to terminate all carder traffic

with Cuba.

b. Prepose adoption by the OAS of a resolution

Bilaterally

flow by any medium or technique.

SECRET

17

NH 50955 DocId: 32423820 Page 19

---

## Page 20

C

SECRET

6. Recommend action by the OAS to establish a public

information program focussing on the threat to the hemis-

phere posed by Cuban propaganda activities.

IV. Direct Actions to Impede Illegal Movement.

As the actions outlined in the preceding sections become

effective, movement of propaganda materials will be forced

into clandestine channels. Additional measures to impede this

1llegal movement will therefore acquire steadily increasing

importance.

1. Immediate Impact Actions

a. Intelligence Actions

(1) Use penetration and other intelligence techniques

to identify efforts to move propaganda materials from

Cuba to and/or within Latin American countries, and

determine routes and methods employed; report selected

Information,

consistent with requirements for protecting

our own intelligence program to governments concerned.

(2) Utilize US Intelligence capabilities to deter-

mine the nature and extent of clandestine aircraft

and small boat traffic between Cuba and other countries

in the Caribbean area, with special attending to Mexico,

Honduras, Jamaica, Haiti, and the Dominican Republic;

SECRET

18

IT 50955

DooId: 32423820 Page 20

---

## Page 21

SECRET

CA

use evidence obtained as leverage to cause governments

concerned to initiate surveillance and other control

measures aimed at interception of propaganda materials.

b. Surveillance and Reporting Actions

(1) Continue US sea and air surveillance of

the Caribbean area contiguous

to Cuba.

(2) Continue the improvement, at high priority

of US

communications in Latin America, in order to

improve alerting, reporting and control capabilities

c. Administrative Action

Induce each Iatin American country to intensify

police measures to seek and destroy the Communist

propaganda apparatus in each country.

2. Longer Range Actions

a. Technical Assistance Actions

(1) Provide technical assistance to enable

local officials to locate clandestine radio

transmitters.

"Ta) Rovide assistance, training, and equip-

ment as required to boister local harassment

capabilities to delay, prevent, or destroy repro-

duction of imported Castro/Communist propaganda.

b. US Military Assistance Actions

Urge the accelerated improvement of internal

security forces and police forces in Latin American

SECRET

19

NH 50955 DocId: 32423820 Page 21

---

## Page 22

C

SECRET

countries and the intensification of patrol and

intelligence activities aimed at preventing clandestine

propaganda activities; provide equipment, training

and advice as required.

3. Organization of American States TOAS Actions

Propose adoption by the DAS of a resolution calling

upon member states to collaborate in preventing illegal

movement of propaganda materials from Cuba to, within,

/Nar

and

between member states.

SECRET

20

ATHT

50955

DoCT: 32423820

Page 22

---

