198-10007-10015]

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: — 198-10007-10015

RECORD SERIES CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: = OASD.
FROM: — E.R. ZUMWALT.
TO: JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR

TITLE: — ICCCA: EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE
ACTIVITIES

PAGES: 3

DATE 03/15/1963
1

: SUBJECTS :
COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
EXCHANGE OF. INTELLIGENCE, LATIN AMERICA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRI STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 02/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 10. Memo for Califano from Zumwalt re: second working draft of
"Cuba: The Exchange of Intelligence Concerning Communist Subversive Activities.”

oS F. Kx Re evie J

Roose of the Army EO 13526
Declassify [ Exclude Exempt
hority,

Aut
© Reter To.
revo bao DaI 5 LES —

v9.1 24
NW 50955 DocId:32424008 Page 1



Y SEGRE Gee toeeaceen WHEN arracments

aGe

| OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

15 March 1963
MEMO NO. 42 MR. JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.
Special Assistant to the
Secretary of the Army : .
SUBJECT: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee
of Cuban Affairs: Exchange of
Intelligence Concerning Communist
Subversive Activities
With reference to your Memo No. 19, comments
are submitted herewith in the form of hand-written

changes to one copy of subject paper.

Ca.

Cay n USN

Attachment
As stated above

UNCLASSIFIED WHey see
ARE DETACHED ATTACHMENTS |

SECRET

A 9407

HW 50955 Docid:32424008 Page 2


; osoisa Me Seotwe
oar eseersuaes Gp 2 iettinaer GES

SECRET
SUB-COMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION
15 March 1963

TO SERVICE, OSD AND JOINT STAFF. CONTACT POINTS:
_This is our final effort on the paper for
\ exchange of intelligence. Please give me your views

on the manuscript by 1500 today.

V. H. KRULAK
Major General, USMC

GROUP-1
SECRET EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

HW 50955 DoclId:32424008 Page 3


SECRE!

SECOND WORKING DRAFT
CUBA
THE EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE
CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES

I. Introduction

In combatting Castro-Communist subversion through-
out Latin America, there is a fundamental requirement for
intelligence -- a requirement which involves the timely
acquisition and processing of information as well as its
rapid dissemination, on a selective basis, to countries
concerned. While efforts are now being made by CIA, AID,
and the U.S. Military Services to improve Latin American
intelligence systems, success thus far has been limited,
and much remains to be done. It is not with this broad
problem, however, that this paper is primarily concerned,
but rather with the narrower matter of the need for a
stronger program of exchanging essential information re-
garding Communist subversion in Latin America among those

who need to know it.

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32424008 Page 4


SECRET

Ir, The Nature and Scope of the Problem

1. Limiting Factors

There are many inhibitions which tend to discourage
the exchange of intelligence on an international basis,
even among allies. National privacy with regard to the
inner workings of an intelligence system must be pre-
served. Compounding the problem further, where Latin
America is concerned, is the divisive influence of the
long history of rivalries, wars, jealousies and dis-
putes which have characterized relations among .the
nations concerned. The wounds of past conflicts among
pairs and groupings of nations are not completely*
healed. There is lingering hostility between Peru and
Ecuador deriving from their boundary war. Chile and
Bolivia continue at odds over the question of Bolivian
access to the sea, and, even now, Nicaraguan insurgents
are harbored within the borders of both Costa Rica
and Honduras. It could hardly be expected that these
countries would be eager to exchange intelligence on
a full and frank basis.

Beyond this, Latin America is not a homogeneous en-
tity in social, political, or economic terms, and
attitudes toward the Castro-Communist subversive menace
vary widely. A completely unified approach toward
exchange or intelligence concerning this menace, there-

fore, cannot be regarded as attainable.

NW 50955 WePaREbaoao08 Page 5 2


SECRET

An additional impediment to intelligence exchange
is the low level of competence of most Latin American
intelligence services, their lack of rapid, secure
meahs of communication, and the absence of adequate
security systens and the lack of security conscious-
ness, Deficiencies in security safeguards must
necessarily limit the exchange of intelligence ob-
tained covertly by any of the nations involved, and
particularly the United States, which has the most
sophisticated system and hence the greatest need for
protection.

This defect promises to persist, since the
governments of some countries have little desire
to develop a competent career security service.

There is a fear that the existence of an efficient
service would constitute a threat to further activi-
ties of members of the existing governments at such
time as they might find themselves out of power.
Moreover, many Latin American intelligence services
tend to label as "subversives" those of their own
nationals resident in other countries who are opposed
to the existing government.

These realities all underscore the fact that
multilateral intelligence exchange must be approached

on a most circumscribed basis. It should not be

SECRET
NW 50955 DOCTaTS7424008 Page 6


SECRET

concluded, however, that nothing of value can be
accomplished multilaterally. With proper defini-
tion, limiting the problem of exchange to matters
directly related to communist subversive activities,
such as the movement to and from Cuba of trainees,
the production and movement of propaganda materiale
which threaten internal stability, and the movement
of arms, it should be practicable to marshal a useful
measure of cooperation. In pursuing this effort,

it will be important to draw a sharp distinction
between secret intelligence gained by covert means
and information obtained openly. The former in-
volves the requirement to protect national secrets
both as to sources and acquisition methods employed.
The latter, which can be of great value, can be
exchanged without fear of compromise.

2, Current Exchange Arrangements
At present there is little organized exchange of

intelligence among the Latin American nations.
There is a limited amount of informal exchange,
often on a basis of personal relationships between
government officials having a community of interest

with respect to a particular matter.

SECRET 4

NW 50955 Docid:32424008 Page 7


SECRET

The Central Intelligence Agency has established
working liaison arrangements in some Latin American
countries where such relations have been considered
to be in the best interest of the United States.
Most of the intelligence concerning subversion in
Latin America available to the CIA is derived from
covert operations or through contacts with another
intelligence or security service, This inhibits the
passage of such information to agencies of a third
country. There is, however, a substantial amount
of intelligence available from overt or non-sensitive
sources which can be provided to other countries.

In 1962, for example, CIA received information re-

ports from Bervices with which liaison is main-

tained in Latin America and released reports to (|

recipients. Intelligence items. exchanged included
collated studies, weekly intelligence reviews, name
traces and travel reports.

The U.S. Army, through its attaches, currently
has an informal arrangement involving bilateral
exchanges of intelligence with Argentina, Colombia,
Ecuador, Uruguay, Peru, Paraguay and Venezuela.

Information provided by the Army has been concerned

SECRET

w

HW 50955 DoclId:32424008 Page 8


SECRET

with subversive personalities, communist infiltra-
tion, weapons movements and related matters.
Reciprocal intelligence received has been of small

value. The Army also provides selected information

on subversive activities to Brazil, Chile, Guatemala
and Mexico, without reciprocation. The Navy has
established a Navy-to-Navy program for the exchange
of intelligence among nine South American navies, the
Mexican Navy and the U.S, Navy.

Some information has been released from time to
time to Latin American countries by the Commander-
in-Chief, Caribbean Command, operating through the
Military Groups, and exchanges of information are
also effected from time to time through channels
of the Department of State.

As yet, however, the program for the provision
by United States agencies of information on subver-
sion to Latin American governments has not been
developed to an adequate degree, Since the United
States possesses the most extensive acquisition
capabilities, as well as the only secure and re-
liable means of rapid communication throughout Latin
America (currently in process of improvement), the
development of an integrated United States system
for bilateral exchange offers the greatest possi-

bility of achieving the results desired.

NW 50955 DG&HGREY214008 Page 9 6


SECRET

United States experience in the matter of intel-
ligence exchange in Latin America, and in other areas
of the world, has led to the conclusion that bilateral
arrangements are more fruitful than multilateral
arrangements such as those established within the
framework of NATO, CENTO and SEATO, Nevertheless,
this experience has shown also that multilateral
arrangements can be of some use, particularly in
creating an awareness of the need for intelligence
exchange.

The concept of an exchange of information among
members of the OAS with regard to subversive activi-
ties has been put forward at numerous Inter-American
meetings, but has not been implemented, largely for
the reasons set forth in Section II.1. Under the
Punta del Esta decisions, the OAS members were
urged to cooperate in strengthening their capacity
to counteract threats or acts of aggression, sub-
version or other dangers to peace and security.

The Council of the OAS is charged with maintaining
vigilance over Castro-Communist subversion, and a

"Special Consultative: Committee on Security (Sccs)"
is established to give technical advice on request

to governments and the Council on matters relating
SECRET ve

HW 50955 Docld:32424008 Page 10


SECRET

to subversion. All American governments have been
asked to furnish information on Castro-Communist
activities to serve as the basis for studies and
recommendations by the Council of the OAS on how

to counteract them. Since the Punta del Esta meet-
ing, the OAS has been making slow progress in the
countersubversion field, but there has as yet been
no significant exchange of intelligence through its
machinery.

This brief summary serves to illustrate that
there is much room for expansion of bilateral in-
telligence exchange arrangements among the Latin
American nations themselves, which is now minimal
at best, as well as a need to create an expanded
program for bilateral intelligence exchange be-
tween the United States and individual countries,
and finally, a requirement to develop the possibili-

- ties of a multilateral approach within the recog-

nized limitations involved.

SECRET. 8

HW 50955 Docld:32424008 Page 11


SECRET

III. Actions Recommended

1. Increase the existing bilateral exchange of in-
telligence conducted by CIA, DOD, and other U.S. agencies,
where it is found possible to establish appropriate
arrangements for the exchange of selected information con-
sistent with security requirements.

2. Establish military intelligence centers at the
headquarters of the Caribbean Command and the Caribbean
Sea Frontier, Atlantic Command, for further dissemination
of intelligence as appropriate in conjunction with our
Military Alerting System, for rapid processing and dissem-
ination when appropriate, of intelligence on subversive
activity directly to the countries concerned through the
American Embassies therein. —

3. Increase and expedite the existing flow of in-
telligence on subversion from CIA and the other elements
of the American Embassies in Latin America to Caribbean
Command as well as to CIA headquarters for further
dissemination as appropriate.

4, Increase the dissemination to Latin. American
governments, by all U.S. agencies concerned, of unclassi-
fied studies, reports and other non-sensitive information

concerning Castro-Communist subversion.

SECRET 9

HW 50955 Docld:32424008 Page 12


SECRET

5. Encourage Latin American countries to engage in
pilateral exchange of intelligence on Castro-Communist
subversive activities.

6. Continue the development at high priority of
U.S, communications in Latin America.

7. Increase emphasis on the provision of U.S. in-
telligence advisors to Latin American countries. Dis-
courage their employment of intelligence advisors from
nations other than the U.S

8. Intensify and increase existing AID, CIA, and
Military programs for the training and equipping of
Latin American internal security and intelligence. services.
Establish such programs in additional countries where it
is found to be in the best interests of the United States
and acceptable to the country concerned.

9. Undertake action in the OAS to stimulate govern-
ments to keep the Council and the SCCS fully informed on
a continuing basis of the nature and incidence of sub-
versive activities in their respective countries.

10, Encourage Latin American countries to approve
the General Military Plan of the Inter-American Defense
Board (IADB), and, in accordance with Annex 4 thereof,
furnish to the IADB intelligence information and estimates
Le Cipenvivy Castro-Communist subversive bapieaiale Sar aa ag

Of eat BAL One, he
Fioo aL Lin om ln bang fe Gro rtf aneuieey,
SECRET

HW 50955 DocId:32424008 Page 13


SECRET :

1l. Take action to cause the IADB to be designated

—<—
as the/agency to provide advice and assistance to the Tong Cele
pe emia aS

gence on Castro-Communist subversive activities. _ poekions

12. Arrange for regional meetings of senior intelli or Mah

gence and security service representatives of Latin xg Min Chite

Council of the OAS in regard to the exchange of intelli-/

American countries and the United States for the purpose
of fostering the exchenge of intelligence concerning
Castro-Communist subversive activities and developing the

necessary mechanisms and procedures therefor.

SECRET 1

HW 50955 DoclId:32424008 Page 14
