202-10001-10059

: : ay Date : 09/14/98
Page : 1

JFK. ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : JCS
RECORD NUMBER : 202-10001-10059
RECORDS SERIES : J-3 ~°
AGENCY FILE NUMBER DOC. 60

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ARMY
FROM : SECRETARY OF THE ARMY
TO : CICS
TITLE : CLASSIFIED TITLE
DATE : 09/23/63
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : CUBA CONTINGENCY PLANNING

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/17/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Reviewed by CIA, State, OSD.

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION
TO DECLASSIFICATION

Pte CONCURRENDS OF

paTe:——MAR 20)

HW 50955 DocId:32424790 Page 1 \


_ WOR SECRET SENSITIVE

within the scope and pace of the CIA program already approved and.
- under way. Within these parameters, I would appreciate the views
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on the following specific questions:

a. Would it be desirable to prearrange DOD air
or surface support for the protection of CIA raiding craft of U.. S.
registry in the event such craft are subjected to hot pursuit in inter-
national waters by Cuban aircraft or surface vessels?

b. Is.such prearranged support desirable for CIA
controlled raiding exaff | CW)

Cyrug R. Vance
Secretary of the Army

TO? SEORET SEER

HW 50955 DocId:32424790 Page 2


TOR SECRET SENSITIVE

within the scope and pace of the CIA program already approved and.
under way. Within-these parameters, I would appreciate the views
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on the following specific questions:

a. Would it be desirable to prearrange DOD air
or surface support for the protection of CLA raiding craft of U.. S.
registry in the event such craft are subjected to hot pursuit in inter-
national waters by Cuban aircraft or surface vessels?

b. Is. such prearranged support desirable for CIA
controlled raiding cred GOW)
: C Nip Voce

Cyruq R.' Vance
Secretary of the Army

TOP SEGR

BW 50955 DocId:32424790 Page 3
