# 202-10001-10212

## Page 1

202-10001-10212

Date

Page :

08/04/98

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JCS

: 202-10001-10212

FOIA SERIES

DOC 213

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

OSD

FROM

TO

TITLE

: THE CUBA PROJECT

DATE

: 03/02/62

PAGES : 8

SUBJECTS : MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C, 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/30/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : Reviewed by OSD, CIA, State.

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

REQUIRES CONCURRENCE OF

DATEL

MAR 2016

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

MW. 50955

Doold:32424943 Page 1

---

## Page 2

TOP SECREE

(226)

2 March 1962-

THE CURA PROJECT™

The Conl: The Unlted States will help the people of Cuba over.

throw the Commeist regime from within Cabs and Institute a new:

government with whlch the United States can live In pones.

Develeparents:

30: November 19611. The above gond wan set for tha United ai

with Brig: Coa. Landale as Chief of Operations and with oper

lentenants appolated so direct representatives of the Secretary

State, the Sacretary of Defense, and the Director, Central Install

The Special Group (NSC 5412) was to be kept informed and be eu

for advice and zecommendation.

ecember. anary, Decklive allort was made to re-orient the

perational concepts within the U.S.- government and to develop the

hard latelligence and operational.ssseta.required.for-succens.

Joint offort wns mounted lo obtain intelligance in depth from refugees»

a1 Opa-Locka, Florida, and to provide mere thorough access to opera-

tomni annata. At the same time, reports from significant popalation

groups, Incloding religions and laber groups, Indicated that the sprit:

of the Cabas people was dylag under the Communist pollee-tate con-

trolo and that seme evidence on which to base hope for a better future

was needed premptly te prevent thie death al spirit.

A review ole

operational sanete dictated that the U.". was powerions to hamper

the suma

harvest without U.3. attribatien.

2. The Chief of Operations annigned thirty-two.

ta and Agoneles,-for & realitie assonament and=

-capabilities.

SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET

GASD(PA) DFOISR

SO SECRET CONTROL

Copy No.

то - 0336

r.S. NO. 91-T5-30

ocument No. 23

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEAsE Ur THis DOCUMEN!

AS SANIIZED O

3 runs 48 mhh

6(1(B)

OSO: NO OBVECTION AS

HH 50955.

DocId: 3212491R FRACTED 25.J0N98

COPY

S

COPIES

The Department of State releases this document

In part and postpones release of portion(s) of it

under the provisions of the JFK Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (PL 102-526)

Reviewed on

1/30/98 мр

Porion(s) Postponed Under 6. / (C)

See last i ferr

(D0:20)

II13

---

## Page 3

SENSLIVE:

TOR SEEKELS

968. Détalled stall papers wore received frame:

Agoneles, responding to ansignod tacha.. A baale

n nie, for the step-by-step devologment al as.

mayan: Chlet el Operatione with Joint considers.

Hoy.thereparational-reprobentatives.(CIA, Stase.

3= Obrassy 1262. Completed banis plan les puced operates

maide Cably and eupport plans for politieal, econenie. paychological..

miltnry sabotago, and intelligence asilena. The entlined cencept

weel develop assets innido Caba for a popular revelation la October

Undged to ho the easiless possible dase by those respenaible for opera....

fionn),-with U: 1, and Latin American help frem the eutside... Eech:

step would be taien as oparationally fonsible: collecting intelligence,-

building revolntanary anote, and taking advantage of targete al-

opportunity

31 Tebruary 196%. Plan man discunned by Special Gromp

5412) and decinion was made to mont again on it the fellewing hita

with Secretary MeNamara.-

26 Tebruary 1963.

Special Group (NSC 5412) met with Secretury

McNamari. Chial o1 Operations was saked to suit a plan for an.

laitinl.latelligence.collectlon.programaniy

1 March 1962- Special Cresp (NSC 5413) agreed that the immediate »

objective of the U.S. dering March, April, and May will he the scquial..

tion of Intelligence, and that other U.S, actions mum be inconspiesou.

and consiotent with an overs polley of loolating Castro and of neutralising

his Indunnce in tho Westers Hondphere. At the end of May, the eitantlem

will be reviamed and a deciaten made as to the nest phase.

The Chine

Operatione la to report to the Preshient through the Special Group (NSC

3412 augmented by the Alternay General and the Chairman, JC8); the

special Sposa lll be reaponalblo for providina polley guidance for

nt operations, and for monitoring progress.

INTELLICENCE PLAN

-ay the Special Group (NBC 5412), & plan for baalc

Intolligence collection, upon which to base the decision to umiertake

actions to canse the overthrow of Castro, la auhmitted horewith. la view

SENSITIVE:

TOP SECRET

NW 50955

DocId: 32424943 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SENSITIVE

TOR SEMIED

ment for a comprohanaive and definitive intelligence.

the Cabas popalation vid-a-is the regime: ClAre-

nitial-paried he extended through July 1963.-. The

practical rolem: relected.inthe plan, Also,-resposalble-CIA»

oparational offleers noted that-atilesat/6 months.ahould.beadded-to=

the timing of.phasen.net:orth in the.original.baate-action.plan.-ifa

docision to conk an interaal revolution do deferred until the end of the.

collection and reporting parted.

The attached plan reflecta the Special Group'e desire to collect=

definiive intelligence innide Caba prior to a deciatos, while beinga

connietent with giving the imprescion thas the U.S. effort la to inolate»

Castro and to neutralise his infuence in the Westers Helephoe.

The plan gives maximal commitmenta of U:S. sosets for intelline

collection in the perioda ahawa.-

DISTRIBUTION

Copy No.

10

The Attoraey Ceneral.

General Taylor:

The Secretary of State (through:

Dopety Underscretary Jehmoon

The Secretary of Delenae and the

Depaty Secretary of Defense

The Chalmas, JC8 (trouh

General Craig

The Directes, CIA (drough

Richard Helme, Willam Haryey)

The Chiel of Operatien

37

SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET

HN 50955

Doold: 32424943 Page

---

## Page 5

14W7

50955

DocId: 32424943

Page 5

TOP SECRET

MARCH

(1 - 31 March 1962)

PURPOSE

SENSITIVE

ACTIVITY

INSIDE CUBA

Satablinh three latelligence

operation in key area»"

selected

by CIA.

and report intelligence on mati-

phine astitudes, on potentinl'remiat-

, in es minerabilities and' *

i ol Communiat necurity system.

OUTSIDE CUBA

Caribbear Aimlation Center, Opar

"ally actvated by

1s' March 1962.

To collect intelligence required for the

operations, to idently and earmark'in-

telligence assete as refugees arrive,

and to provide security againat Co-

munist agent operations.

CONSIDERATIONS

There will ho no ausumption of mishiny sinhilty

let to a ran a are beta to aland.

First tea has agents.

third bus 3 or penably'4, for total of 8 er ?.

Three

• in which renticaned has been

reported

ve been selected. " Agent oper

tons mut stay alive, make assful contacte.

and report securily to CIA: Physical rink to

personnel ts nubetantial, 'dun te lick of intelli-

gence. Tirst reporta from tirit ton are ix"

pocted by the end of March, while reports re

the man ad and third coame aid expected to lio

start in April! "

The operaties, in response to early recom

mendatten'to cosential by'tha Chial ol Opara-

Clous, la moving at utmost spood'to become""

fully active by 15 hinch, with'a new building

completed and occupied, and with a malf it"

13 at work. "The stall la new being terened

tn pianco, as quickly as personal are trated,

so applement the initial stalt ot 9. "(CIA res.

posinlity, with support by Dafense, Juntice.

1. 016.01

1141

M844A

---

## Page 6

NW 50955

DocId: 32424943

Page

01

Davalop nattioaal Interrogation

centers tn other ireas,'

o, during

March 1962.

Johar a epactd intelligance snd

coversgo, ds reguirod.

DúxeleP cotolla enca tofettal of

Cubae

Develep the means of the bater

Amertena'Detense Beard io pre-:

vide pubmantive intellizence on

Cubes activitles.

4.18

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

MARCH (cont)

PURPOSE

int olligenco in 'a Lntis atmos-

ditterent levole tha'now' neem

an the continuatnl U.S.. to rpet

I latolligence anénts and to pro-

nity agatant Communtnt dgent

To dovelep imcreaned "pard" intalli-

gacs.

AN A52

To explolt the intalllaence porlttia:

d'terme? rontets et Cal (iemdiy

U.3. citsema) sen in the Unttod Stasen.

n46 2 1 11 21

Tocda po sha facr ed u a nelage

the coacera of Latja Amertcia dtator tor

ocurity

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

CONSIDERATIONS

An Opa-Lockn becmnes fully ue

activase other interregatianc

a'teatble. Aeenerni

-Negotistiene with

cal suitl

n'to det

ible ce

biltty with pappent by otheird

Hak t caxe paad Cube o l aa taee e ta. hay

(Delanné roipmeistty la calaberatto Miei A.)

ThE 33 "slae Watao BG md

Tanllỳ, 'Charei.

nakke minusninl

nt srelts Pr

pers

tes balde Coe fer

coms of these rei

ni re poteirinlenst

or collectie: of litolligence nt éuortino iiii.

blo. Vence rhrpely

Broia CLA and ochore ad reqatel, elb reppertl

V requtradiy el Deleneo with aupert by ehe

---

## Page 7

50955

DocId: 32424943

Page

7:

ACTIVITY

Perde melance antimate.

roqutred by propone of operationd

Continue pelliieal, economic, am

joycholesteal operations to taelate

Castro and outraline his infurace

a cho Wastora Hemisphere.

? Suppo

and personnel

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

•B8 # 1 7 9i

MARCH (cont)

PURPOSE

NIE 85-62, no that current

can be coandered it ansional

CONSIDERATIONE

To contime activitiss is consonas

With U.8. polley established sbort

etter tha April 196l falluro l Cele

eiter an Italianot

cán produce monthly, & t

more infermal mathed of predict

(than now governing the livuence o

may have to be slewed. " (CIA er

do to can pay taxe tou no stire loos

bat ano cilatest wich me overti

Western Hantaphere.

They'lto med hare?"

or the sis of completen

not otto apocal perin

* are now being carried ou by !. S: Depar

projecta.

* **

* 00.0

responathllity.)'

an's shag

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

---

## Page 8

50955

DocId: 32424943

Page

ACTIVITY

INSIDE CUBA

10.

more intellgonce net opera.

¡lone in areas colected by CiA

OCTOE COBA

Fara darelo a plate countey

Talch would sor-be implemented

INSIDE CUBA

stabato mere italiane

pont eperations lanide Chos, 1

TOP SECRET SENSITIVI

APRIL-MAY

(l Aprll - 31 May 1962)

PURPOSE

no intelligence minatons simdlar

Aret agent eperatione, "but te ""

ato res.

To debase she econamy of Cuba.

1 Jame - 31 July 1962

ed for imoui use purporos by 3ljuly,

xcon the lale of Piace (wth in place:

La bide and ita" 70, 00e prospa)" " 1º

CONSIDERATIONJ

Kach sgent operation team wil

and nulibhiry of porcomel'i

conslally. The terile wauld'le

place.

thereuhly

and do statt on's

no dociata to plemen

La jan voile ba

mando unill Maginas, 11 tham: (0)

Esch inte

aforse

Ma esa by braly oral

---

## Page 9

NW 50955

DocId: 32424943

Page

13

ACTIVITY

Collection of prycholagen.

matertal."

Surpay alias, pole?

Insalimon, Incon

callem contara.

15. My hope ed here ger

16.

Compres

Ive and delially

report on antid

and abilates if the popelatio

30 8 088

4 14 49

finle. (C)

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

JUNE JULY

(cont)

PURPOSE

So documentary a photo

indeen it the tyranay it

Do eaten ball rose on key

KNO OFUL 196

To provo the Special Grew INSC

1423| augmented) with a hard estion

of the Cuban nituntion.

To cripple Cuba!

tation. (c)

CONSIDERATIONS

The ovidance will be used by Chaol

molin in the Wester Herniero"

1 3 1 8% 4 8 1 90 4 12943

This la conceived of as around

possible detainent of malties eyes

poraemial no intelliginace agents.

The requires ntempte to pince tramed sons

into governant or gatmation

•t t detoe

alician nu placo. "

not the'U.S.' sheild undert

Writal moist

Buccoont

The arts want to iow. "ei

before Motipshni, monate to help

the

nataly,

to provide"

---

