# 202-10001-10213

## Page 1

202-10001-10213

Date: 08/04/98

Page :: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD

NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JCS

202-10001-10213

FOIA SERIES

DOC 214

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

OSD

FROM

TO

TITLE

MONGOOSE SCHEDULE

DATE

: 05/17/62

PAGES

: 12

SUBJECTS : MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/30/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : Reviewed by OSD, CIA, Staté.

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

REQUIRES COCURRENCE OF

-MAR

-2016

[R]

_ ITEM IS RESTRICTED

JIT.

50955

DooId: 32424944

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPERATION MONGOOSE

PRIORITY OPERATIONS SCHEDULE

21 MAY - 30 JUNE 1962

TASK

POLITICAL

Obtain some special and signifi-

cant action within the OAS

organization against the Castro-

Communist regime.

(STATE)

SPEDLe SA

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE DE THIS BEER Sit

AS SANITIZED

6(0(BXc)

OSA; NO OBJECTION

REDESTERY

liliped:

17 May 1962

DOC *

#214

PURPOSE

To produce material for psycho-

logical impact on Cuba.

CONSIDERATIONS

Members of OAS need to be inspired

to push some special action through.

Current events offer a number of

opportunities for exploitation through

such OAS bodies as the Commission

on Human Rights, the Peace Committee,

the Council of Jurists, and the Children's

Institute, as well as the Special Con-

sultative Committee on Security.

2.

CASD(PA) DEOISR

TOP. SECRET CONTROL

12

Copy No.

Case No

9T7F01-034

IT-S No.

9-

IS- 39

Permanl No.30

Activate key public leaders in

Latin America to make timely

and strong statements about the

Castro-Communist threat to the

Hemisphere, the failures of the

regime towards Cuban workers,

students, farmers, and freedom.

(STATE)

To produce material for psycho-

logical impact on Cuba,

Under the Ambassador's initiative,

each Country Team by now has the

means to generate more open and

active commitment of Latin American

political, intellectual, labor, youth,

religious, and military leaders. One

significant action in each Latin American

country, for hard impact on Cuba, is a

minimum need

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

REGRADING; DOD DIR 5200.10

DOES NOT APPLY

The Department of State releases this document This document contains

in part and postpones release of portion(s) of it Copy No. -

min. of

under the provisions of the vestors ssination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (Al 102-526)

Reviewed on 5 30|98 m

Portion(s) Postponed Under 6 1 (<)

pages.

copies, Series

(078)

Seep. 2

HH 50955

DocId: 32424944

Page

---

## Page 3

Troi c

LE PECI

AN

PACE

st fan at

TASK

POLITICAL - continued

PURPOSE

CONSIDERATIONS

3.

To produce material for major

psychological impact on Cuba,

undermining the power and prestige

of the hierarchy of the Castro

regime.

HH 50955

DocId: 32424944

Page 3

---

## Page 4

TOP C

SPECIA!

TASK

PURPOSE

POLITICAL - continued

4..

'Develop a suggested platform of

Cuban political-economic objectives

for possible adoption by Cubans in

freeing their country. (STATE)

For the guidance of Operation

Mongoose personnel, particularly

in the selection and readying of

agents to ensure that they are

committed to acceptable political

beliefs before introduction into

5.

Assure that optimum values are

obtained from the CRC and Cuban

refugee groups in the U.S. (CIA)

These Cuban external groups have

a vital role for propaganda impact

inside Cuba.

We must have pur-

poseful, singleness of guidance and

monitoring of their activities to

support the project.

PAGE 3-

CONSIDERATIONS

There are a number of statements of

Cuban political objectives, including

drafts by State and ClA.

What is needed

now, and promptly, is a single working

document for the guidance of U.S.

operational staffs.

ClA and State both have had roles with

the CRC and others.

Cuban leaders also

make contact at a number of high offices

of the U.S. government.

For the good

of the U.S., the Cuban refugees, and our

project, there must be coordinated manage-

ment.

The Director, Central Intelligence,

should have this responsibility, particularly

with leaders of the stature of Dr. Jose

Miro Cardona,

NN 50955 DocId: 32424944

Page

---

## Page 5

TASK

PSYCHOLOGICAL

6.

Steer psychological-propaganda

Working Group for day-to-day

Cuba operations. (STATE)

7. Make strong, repetitive theme

on radio broadcasts to Cuba of

the overwhelming disapproval

throughout the Western Hemisphere

of the Castro-Communist regime,

along with sympathy for the captive

Cubans. (USIA)

Tio

Erer n

PURPOSE

To assure full consideration of

material, as collected, in terms

of special psychological-propaganda

use against the Cuban regime, and

to inform the public.

To undermine Castro's psycho-

logical basis of control over the

Cuban people and the lower echelons

of the regime's bureaucracy.

PAGE 4

CONSIDERATIONS

This has been a normal State chaired

working group.

It needs to be sharply

geared to the project's operations,

including consideration of declassifying

material for operational use.

Defense

should be added to the membership. It

is possible that USIA should assume

leadership.

This is to make full use of material

produced by actions in the Western

Hemisphere.

AH 50955

DocId: 32424944 Page

---

## Page 6

TASK

PSYCHOLOGICAL - continued

8.

Give fullest play into Cuba (and

the Western Hemisphere) of

Cuban refugees and defectors,

as dramatic witness against the

Castro-Communist regime.

(USIA)

9.

Ready the "Voice of Cuba" for

radio broadcast. (CLA)

NOrE

PURPOSE

To undermine Castro's psycho-

logical basis of control and to

build the tone for anti-Castro

actions in the Western Hemis -

phere.

To provide a ready capability for

giving a "voice" to encourage

resistance elements inside Cuba

and to undermine the morale of

the Castro regime.

SPE H

PAGE 5-

CONSIDERATIONS

Note the inclusion of defectors in this

task; it is still a CIA task to produce

the defectors.

Also, this task includes

exploitation of Dr. Miro Cardona's

intensely moving statement at the end

of the Armstrong Circle Theater drama,

"Anatomy of Betrayal."

Initially, this would be for brief news

broadcasts of local events inside Cuba,

simulating a location in Cuba, but

actually located off-shores] A plan of

how best to do this, with the proposed

program format, is needed to obtain

policy decision.

HW 50955

DocId: 32424944

Page

---

## Page 7

bIt3

TASK

PSYCHOLOGICAL - continued

10.

Ready a propaganda actio

balloon delivery. (CIA) ](C)

11.

Deliver copies of Time magazine,

with Blas Roca cover story, into

Cuba. (CIA)

ITOP SECTS ROF TH

SPECIAL liAi

PURPOSE

To provide a ready capability

for low-risk propaganda dis -

semination inside Cuba.

To make the truth available to

the Cuban people about the

Communist regime.

PACE -6

CONSIDERATIONS

A plan of how best to do this, including

types of propaganda content (with

thought given for delivery of symbolic

gifts, such as scarce foods or medicines,

as well as leaflets), is required for de-

cision. It is noted that USIA has a brief

recording of Castro's broadcasts,

sharply contrasting his promises when

he took power with what he said when he

admitted his Communist affiliation; these

could be put on cheap plastic discs and

into leaflets.

BIx

50955

Doc1d: 32424944

Page

---

## Page 8

TASK

PSYCHOLOGICAL - continued

12

Intensify psychological effort

at Guantanamo.

(DEFENSE)

13. Create musical and visual symbols

to express anti-regime sentiments.

(USIA)

SPENSE ON

SPECIA

PURPOSE

To make fullest possible use of

the existing Cuban labor population

on the base.

To provide catchy expressions of

popular resistance against the

Communist regime.

PAGE 7-

CONSIDERATIONS

Activities include sports broadcasts,

in Spanish, over the base radio station

on ball games, news broadcasts using

regular wire service news, and making

Spanish-language periodicals ad litera-

ture available for reading on base.

USIA has a number of selected titles,

published in Mexico and Rio, for stocking

base libraries. Also, USIA has a number

of VOA "backgrounders" and refugee inter-

Views on tape which could be used for

radio broadcasts to Cuban employees on

the base.

New words to a favorite song, a new tune,

a visual symbol for wall-painting, a hand

symbol as easy to do as "V for Victory,"

are the types of expressions sought. USLA

should call on ClA for assistance, since

some thought has been given to this already.

HH 50955

DocId: 32424944

Page

---

## Page 9

TASKS

PSYCHOLOGICAL - continued

14.

Select a sabotage operation.

(CIA)

INTELLIGENCE

15. Make a special effort to

step-up the infiltration of

teams. (CIA)

TOP Sadie

SPECIAL ill

PURPOSE

To make a psychological impact

upon the regime and public,

which symbolizes popular resis-

tance to the regime and which

causes talk encouraging to resis-

tance.

To exploit recent experience in

order to ensure that there is ade

quate coverage inside Cuba to permit

the firm end-of-July intelligence

estimate required for further decisions.

PACE -8-

CONSIDERATIONS

CIA should select a feasible sabotage

operation, a "showy"' one against the

regime, but not against the people,

and present a specific proposal for

approval.

Feasibility depends on CIA's judgment,

both operationally and for depth of

intelligence required.

The schedule was

for 14 teams, 2 singleton agents/ 14

and 204

travellers by the end of

-0/+3

(c)

May.

32424944

Page

HM 50955

---

## Page 10

TASKS

INTELLIGENCE - continued

16

Intensify use of

collection for specific psycho-

logical information which can

be exploited in propaganda.

(CIA)

17.

Intensify the exploitation of the

intelligence potential which exists

on the base at Guantanamo.

(DEFENSE)

SPECIAL

PURPOSE

To provide material for opera -

tions putting pressure on the

Castro regime inside Cuba, and

for use on the OAS-UN opinion

stage.

To take the fullest possible advan-

tage of this open U.S. "listening

post' on Cuban soil.

PAGE - 9-

CONSIDERATIONS

Really current "inside'news tips can

do most to undermine the regime's morale

and interest the Cuban public.

Classiti

cation may be a problem but this use

must be pressed as a priority.

ONI can call upon CIA for assistance. A

communication link to Miami would per -

mit use of extensive CIA background infor -

mation available there and leads for further

exploitation, not only for positive intelli-

gence, but also for counter-intelligence.

A number of further steps are possible.

ITH 50955

DocId: 32424944 Page 10

---

## Page 11

TASKS

INTELLIGENCE - continued

Get ready for air re-supply

missions. (CIA)

MILITARY

19. Develop a real dual-purpose

capability of intelligence teams

in building up the agent pool for

infiltration.. (CIA)

TOP 3i

FORN

SPECIAL BALLING

PURPOSE

To have a ready capability

for re-supply of agent teams

inside Cuba when needed.

To assure that skills needed for

guerrilla operations are present

inside Cuba, so that paramilitary

actions can be initiated when the

decision is made.

PACE •10-

CONSIDERATIONS

Since the Air Eorce has readied a

capability for this task and since it

is still desired that CLA mount such

operations with Cuban or Latin American

personnel, an acceptable means must be

found promptly. CIA, with Defense assis-

tance, as a priority will review feasible

means of mounting these operations, and

recommend the most practical method

for a policy decision.

While CIA is currently carrying out

this task, it is worth CLA taking a further

hard look at its training program to anti-

cipate needs. If larger groups of action

types are to be trained for possible intro

duction in September, it is known that at

least 3 months "lead time" is required

for minimum selection and training. That

means now. It is possible that Defense

can be of far more help than called upon

at present. Also, it is possible that further

policy guidance might be required.

AW 50955

DooId: 32424944

Page

---

## Page 12

TASKS

MILITARY - continued

20.

Induct Cubans into the U.S.

Armed Forces for training.

(DEFENSE)

ECONOMIC

21. Tighten effect of sanctions by

increased effort to enlist

further participation by NATO

nations, Mexico, Japan, and

others. (STATE)

22

SPECIAL Focati

PURPOSE

iG

To fulfill Cuban exile leadership

desires and to build up a potential

reserve for possible future mili-

tary action inside Cuba.

To further restrict Cuba's economy.

To worsen Cuba's economic situation.

[TOP Ci

SPECIAL 14

PAGE 11-

CONSIDERATIONS

For instance, gangster elements should

offer a possible means to accomplish

this task, particularly in Cuban cities.

This could be a test mission for alleged

resistance cells, without undue risk to

"'noise level."

HW 50955 €

DocId: 32424944

Page

12

---

## Page 13

PAGE 12-

TASKS

PURPOSE

CONSIDERATIONS

ECONOMIC - continued

NH

50955

DocId: 32424944

Page

13

---

