202-10001-10229

ee]

Date : 08/04/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

Jcs
202-10001-10229
FOIA SERIES
DOC 230

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR osD
FROM
TO
TITLE MINUTES OF MEETING OF SPECIAL GROUP MAY 62
DATE 05/03/62
PAGES L
SUBJECTS : MONGOOSE
DOCUMENT TYPE MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS 1B, 4

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

07/30/98

Reviewed by CIA, State, OSD.

Lic}

NO JOINT S (AFF OBJECTION
DECLASSIFI

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId:32424960 Page 1



lan

3 May 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of Special Group (Augmented) on
Project Mongoose, 3 May 1962

PRESENT: General Taylor; Mr. Kennedy; Mr. Johnson; Mr, Gilpatric,
General Decker, General Lansdale and General Craig;
Mr. McCone, and Mr. Harvey

1. General Lansdale gave an interim report on the progress
of stepping up recruitment of Cubans into the U. S. Army. He said

2

3
£33 the consensus is that there are not more than a thousand suitable
23f individuals from whom additional recruits could be selected. The
E38 Attorney General commented that the President wishes to have a large
Begs number. General Lansdale said that various alternatives for training
225e of such Cubans are being looked into.

3

£ox3 It was agreed that such a cadre of Cubans would be an asset
Sg23 9) ? to the U.S., which might be used in a number of ways. General
BSRzSe Lansdale, supported by General Taylor, pointed out that in this
Ba25 connection the matter of holding the individuals and giving them
eggs g useful employment after they are trained is an important and a
E285 3 difficult one.
eae ¢
Ee eg é es Mr. Harvey gave a rundown on progress to date with agent

teams and in the general a intelligence, including the (OL)
Co Opa- immarrogation cent. E

ar le outlined va difficulties encountered, and said

that thre teams have been infiltrated and that five W/T sets
are in place. Approximately 72 actual or potential reporting sources
are also in place. {a significant development is that Major Duque has
refused to allow agents responsive to him to be dispatched on purely
intelligence-gathering missions. (This sort of attitude had been
forecast earlier as a possibility, but it now assumes particular im-

portance in view of Duque's stature.)

3. Mr. Harvey also commented on the two attempts made to intrude
afl into Havana TV programs The Group asked that a check be made, as
ae i soon as possible, on how effective these operations were. They also
asked that a copy of the scripts used be made available. The Group
pe y? felt that it is worthwhile to check this capability out, as is now
being done, but questioned whether once proved effective it should not

perhaps be kept in reserve for a more meaningful time.

t.130

7)
Saft nD
Thomas A. Parrott ¥
a

cc: General Lansdale
NW 50955 DocId:32424960'_ Page 2 eevee

