ined Date
Page

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

08/28/98
1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY INFORMATION

Jcs
202-10001-10179
FOIA SERIES

: DOC 180

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

OsD

STATUS OF OPERATION MONGOOSE
04/11/62
3

: MONGOOSE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
TOP SECRET

ic, 4

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
07/30/98

Reviewed by JCS, OSD, CIA, State.

NOJOINT STAFF OBJECTION
TO DECLASSIFICATION

ise

DATE: MAR 2016

BW 50955 DocId:32424910 Page 1


VL Ui eae ey re

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
WASHINGTON 25. 0.¢.

11 April 1962

Status of Operation Mongoose
Report to Policy Group, 11 April 1962
By Brig. Gen. Lansdale

We are in the fourth week of the Special Group's revised plan
for Operation Mongoose. There are fifteen more weeks of Phase I,
which is essentially intelligence collection with low U.S. visibility.

Intelligence collection is reaching a point where the U.S. is
starting to get a firmer fix in detail on order of battle, the political
structure, the economy, and internal resistang#® oups. Our Center
in Miami processed, 309 refugees la. ek e refugee debrief- 4S
, ing center (maa now in cress for debriefing )
: visitors to Cuba, at a number of fre. i ports, have been estab-
lished. Mr. McCone can provide details.
- In the more dramatic sector, the infiltration of teams into Cuba,
CIA reports one team in place, a second team on the way, and two
\ more ready for next week. The pace was adjusted to ensure that ‘
really competent personnel go in, It should be noted that this is
only one sector of the collection effort inside Cuba. Again, I defer
to Mr. McCone for details.

CIA has identified seven resistance organizations inside Cuba, ~
as realistically potential, A hard assessment, up close, is still to
come. Under the revised plan for Operation Mongoose, proposals
for supplying arms and equipment to these groups will be submitted
to the Special Group for decision, ad hoc. No Proposals have been

. received. i

VYI0f IF)

Collection Act of 1992 (PL102-526)

t
etrion political scrivte fate report that the Cuban government | at
was made aware thata, ‘Or the prisoners could be made, through a“
the Italian UN missign) (Also, as reported in the press, a refugee
delegation is seein uban government, to negotiate a deal. State-
ments calling for a fair trial and humanitarian treatment of the pri-

soners were stimulated from 9 Western Hemisphere chiefs of state

or foreign ministers, and in an OAS council resolution.

Reviewed on.

under the provisions of the JFK Assassination Records

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR 2B 180

“RELEASE OF THIS "OCUMENT 5 DOCH E ac
ASSANITIZED 2 Syune armen SOP | Shee _/ 35

bye” 6) Al
: SIECTION a ee oer ets .
eee 23 oudf” : LS TN SIS aED em PT gs _ pod

HW 50955 DocId:32424910 Page 2


é 7 .
ai Defense has readied two USAF aircraft and crews for air 12

\ seSeapply, jawaiting Specific mission need and approval. A list

of pretex€S or provocations why might be grounds for military
intervention has been prepar. Defense assets for Psychological
operations are being devel detail.

BW 50955 DocId:32424910 Page 3


ow OL abst esac estecasat ay fa Ge

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
WASHINGTON 25. 0.¢.

11 April 1962

Status of Operation Mongoose
Report to Policy Group, 11 April 1962
By Brig. Gen. Lansdale

We are in the fourth week of the Special Group's revised plan
for Operation Mongoose. There are fifteen more weeks of Phase I,
which is essentially intelligence collection with low U.S. visibility.

Intelligence collection is reaching a point where the U.S. is
starting to get a firmer fix in detail on order of battle, the political

structure, the economy, and internal resistang oups. Our Center
*, seetecaeere in Miami processed_1, 309 refugees la: ekf e refugee debrief- 4
me : ing center i 3 now in ee ‘for debriefing )
= visitors to Cuba, at a number of fre& ports, have been estab-

lished. Mr. McCone can provide details,

In the more dramatic sector, the infiltration of teams into Cuba,
CIA reports one team in place, a second team on the way, and two
\ more ready for next week. The pace was adjusted to ensure that ‘
really competent personnel go in, It should be noted that this is
only one sector of the collection effort inside Cuba. Again, I defer
to Mr. McCone for details.

he

release or declassification of this document in full
under the provisions of the JFK Assassination Records

CIA has identified seven resistance organizations inside Cuba, ~
as realistically potential. A hard assessment, up close, is still to
come, Under the revised plan for Operation Mongoose, proposals
for supplying arms and equipment to these groups will be submitted
to the Special Group for decision, ad hoc. No proposals have been

. received.

ETALO

Collection Act of 1992 (PL102-526)

‘The Department of State has no oojecuo!

—
On political scutes fate reports that the Cuban government ae

Reviewed on

was made aware thata.di Or the prisoners could be made, through \ Pa
the Italian UN missign##/Also, as reported in the press, a refugee
delegation is seeing: ‘uban government, to negotiate a deal. State-

ments calling for a fair trial and humanitarian treatment of the pri-
soners were stimulated from 9 Western Hemisphere chiefs of state
or foreign ministers, and in an OAS council resolution.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

ASSANITIZED Q 3 Junen rata Sef
6(1)(8) .

°S0! No OL(ECTION ae . oe

AS REOACTED 23fon9f pe eee
HW 50955 DocId:32424910 Page 4

PocB 1 do



oc

jon need and approval, A list
might be grounds for military
intervention has been prepar. ‘Defense assets for Psychological
operations are being develo detail.

HW 50955 DocId:32424910 Page 5
