# 202-10001-10177

## Page 1

202-10001-10177

Date

Page

08/04/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

:JCS

RECORD NUMBER

202-10001-10177

RECORDS

SERIES

FOIA SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOC 178

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

: OSD

FROM

TO

TITLE : PROGRESS, OPERATION MONGOOSE

DATE

: 06/14/62

PAGES

: 3

SUBJECTS : MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION

: TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B, 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/30/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : Reviewed by OSD, State, CIA.

EXEMPT PER E.O. 13526

SEC 3.3(b) 5Qx5

DATE EXEMPTED: MAR

2016

JS RE-REVIEW DATE: 3170222837

OKAY TO TULASE AS REDACTED

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DocId: 32424908 Page 1

---

## Page 2

IOP SECRET-NOFORMI

SPECIAL HANDLING 1,2

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

WASHINGTON 25. D.C.

Lien. 5

131

14 Juno 1262

WAte

SENSITIVE

MEMORANDU: FOR THE SPECIA: GROUP (AUCHENTED)

From:

Brig. Cen. Lanadale Ed

Subject: ProgIcos, Operation Mongoose .

The Department i State has no objection to the

release or declassification of this document in full

under the provisions of the JFK Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (PL102-526)

1/30

Reviewed on

Political Actions. At its 7 June moeting, the Group desired

that iny 17 jay list of sugrested priority actiona be re-issues, to

¡acluce agreed-upoa tasks for State. Complotion of this is awaiting

the appointment of a representative for the Lepartment of State who

can devore full time to Operation Mongoose, aa agreed upon. When

the appointment in announced to tie Succial Crous, li is my pian to

hold a mecting promptly with him and other scoresentatives to

work on tie schedule of special-eifort activitics. 'eanwuile, le

are morking on the accopied tasta. Siste reports tat bricling

papers bave bech given to Secretary Husk on Cubi-Luropean Liace,

for his fortncoming trip 1o West Europe and that Ine Firecting

Council of the Fan-Arerican Inotitute of History and Ccography

has voted to exclude Cuban ¿clegatca from meetings.

Cuban Recruits In U.S. Armer Forcea. Concept approved

and directive iscued by tie jecIciary of lefense.

Outstandinr Studies (including Flockaic), My 8 June merso-

randum to the members di the Special Group (Augmenice) reported

on the current status of all outorancing ctudico. The desiree Lefense

and Cli papers on the means roguirce for and possible cilecis of a

blockace of Cuia were transmitted with this riemoranuum.

Also transnilled by iny 8 June memorancum was a Icfense

reminces of lie Attorney General'e question about U.S. actions in

case the Soviets coabligiod bases in Cuaa. Mongoose representatives

were alcrted to tic last paragraph of the Lofense paper, which arked

for commenta by the la June Group mecting.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTIÓN TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED 23 JUNE98mbLe

OSD CONCURS WITH

SENSITIVE

CIA 23VONESS

EXCLUDED FROM GDS

TOP SECRET ROTTE

NH 50955

DacId: 32121908 Page a anor.

IEDDOIOIIAIN

82-03 153

EXCLUDED PROH AUTOMATIC

REGRADED: DOD 2:2 5000.10

DOES NOT TE

DoC # 175, 3YP

---

## Page 3

TOP SECRET-NOFORM

SPECIAL HANGLING

SENSITIVE

- 2:

Ponsible Continensy. The rumored uprisina of tie Cuias

people in miei-juze continues to br walched closcly. The CLi

coserage inglee Cuba hag not confirned this ugrising from

resistance organizationg there, and mill concludes that this is

an aitempo toy the Castro rogine to get opponenta to co-e ou:

into the open, where trey cau ue acalt wish. It io believed

vorts sone astre latalligence eifort io acep a close cye on

possible cevclop.ronis in Cuua in lia perioo, and the Cisouo ia

bein? asted soparately to approve means for cuing 50. 1.c30-

valle, Li, iriro Cariona issuca a varning (inile in Costa fica)

to Cubano not to revoll prematurely, this vas pieked up ty pse38

acrulces and played back into Cuba by VOA and otber information

mirans.

In response to tie Group's caslre for Icady plana in caso of

arnilar contingenciso in ile future, Lefense has been lastird with

¿oveloziug a plan in casa of a surprise wice-saread revoli and State

has been isisco with cercloging a companion plan la case oi i

localizer revolt (in a provincial cliy, eic.). The Cisoup will Do

inforince of tiose plasia

when completed.

"Voice of Cuit

On the planed breascast

"Station for the reaistaned

isicE L1:3,

cetilo iuve becafirará to stara inese by the cud aí June. CL and

State have been trougit torchier on cati

at theinca and prorraarino.

Navy nas reailirmed the low sis:: factor

piter portina cut ocerauadal

detalls with Ola. liroaccasts ere costente to de lrich lee longesi,

5 minuteo) al the start, and build up crecisility clooly. A cries

nonitor's renort will de suria-ec,

na U.S. news acrvice.

Micr cheirocadis arc cotablicked

Coisa Lelector.

Pedro doig Ortega, represenialive inticnico

of tar Cucan: inis:ry of Comerce, has colected in tiraico City. CLA

nad State uro sirin: on reane to explois tig actios, coperiaily

noting valie of lin-act withia bota Cuba and ilexico.

8:3d-901-11-8010931

NN 50955 DooId:32424908 Page 3

pleted à sumary uniyois oi me travra ancachratios o Cuban stadent

labor, and cultaral organicallora,

maien will de distalbuice to Crou?

memberu separately.

The analybig scanilo tund tilo Cara cifort is

SENSITIVE

2

---

## Page 4

TOP SECHET-NOFERN'

SPECIAL MINDLING fIZ

SENSITIVE

"14.

being pushed argressively in Lalin America, in the pattern o

rganizallone.

Insarmation. VOA exploica current vulnerabilites: d'oscow

save cla:ricultural problems and price rises, to Guian cisaatrose

season of surai procuciion, and Castro's ciscouragini commeen:

that it woul be son to thielve yeard belore livin, conditiong improvo

in Cuba. Orders from ialla America for tic latest co:nie sooi: or

Cuian cilleron have scached 1, 235. 000.

GalA Particization. Mthouga the Director of USLA is not a

member as tie ajecial Croup (Augmonied), both Editarror and

Don illoon aave ensured virorcus Url particization la Operatio

diongoose, and have a definito need to te lept iníorinee on ratiere

which tie sion?008e lean report to the special GIou, (auncarcu).

The siriple way to do so roulá be for rie to pive an inforcetica

copy to murrow/irlison ('eyes only'') of ouch reporta to te Special

Group (Augmented), liequest approval to do 80.

"Eyes Ossly" copies to:

1.

Ceacral Taylor

Z. ME. Joindon

3.

115. Cilpatric

5.

6.

7.

No. Kennedy

Coneral Lemaitzer

Chiel of Operations

SENSITIVE

3

NH 50955

DocId: 32424908 Page 4

---

