# docid-32264272

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/13/20

•AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10111-10367

RECORD SERIES:

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

015072

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CITIZEN

FROM:

GENERAL MAGNIFICO

TO :

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/20/1977

4

GENERAL MAGNIFICO

GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

LETTER

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

Open in Full

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/12/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box #:291.

v9.1

NW 55923

Doold:32264272

Fage 1

---

## Page 2

2022

Offi

pras

1a247a

GENERAL SERVICEE ADMINISTRATION

NATIONAL PERSONNEL RECOROS CENTER

MILITARY PERCONNEL RECONDS,"

ALL POINTS BULLETIN

Political kidnaping with

intended murder an 20

DIRECTOR OF THE FEDERAL

"WARNING AGAINST CLARENCE M. KELLEY;

THE DOMESTIC

BUREAU OP

NAMED.ON

THE

BACK

OF THIS PAGE

INVESTIGATION AND THOSE CO-CONSPIRATORS

BY THE

STATES GRIFFIN

ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE UNITED

BELL.

• WARNING TO WHOMSOEVER IT MAY

ARE CHARGED WITH VIOLATIONS OF

CONCERN: CLARENCE M- KELLEY AND CO-CONSPIRATORS

18, UNITED STATES

(CONSPIRACY),

1201 (KIDNAPING)",

CODE, , SECTIONS

201 (BRIBERY: & GRAFT),

1001 (FRAUD AND FALSE STATEMENTS)

351

CATIONS),

2311 (STOLEN PROPERTY),

2510 (WIRE INTERCEPTION & INTERCEPIION OF.TORAL

*111 (ASSAULT),

BURGLARY),

2231 (SEARCHES "&" SEIZURES);

COMMUNI-

2071 (RECORDS & REPORTS),

2111 (ROBBERY &

1901 (PUBLIC OFFICERS

1751 (PRESIDENTIAL ASSASSINATIONS, KIDNAPING & ASSAULT).

& EMPLOYEES),

1541 (PASSPORTS & VISAS);.:

1501 (OBSTRUCTION,

1581 REPYARES & WAVENY 1361 (MALICIOUS MISCHIEF)?"* 1341 (MAIL/ FRAUD) 3

1621 (PERJURY) OF JUSTICEL

1111 (HOMICIDE );

871 (EXTORTION & THREATS).

641 (EMBEZZLEMENT & THEFT )

591 (BLECTIONS & POLIVICAL

791 (ESPIONAGE & CENSORSHIP),

351 CONGRESSIONAL ASSASSINATION, KIDNAPING & ASSAULTI, ETC.

ACTIVITIES),

TO:ALI JUDGES, JUSTICES AND ALI

TOSALI

COURTS EMPLOYEES EVERYWHERE:

10: ALL

EMPLOYEBS OF. BOTH HOUSES OF UNITED STATES CONGRESS;

POLICE,

ALL

SHERIFFS,

TO: ALL EMPLOYEES

1103

OF

ALL LAW ENFORCING OFFICERS & AGENCIES EVERYUHERE:

POST OFFICES & POSTAL

ALL

SERVICE;

EMPLOYEES OF ALL

MOTOR

1O:

10:

ALL

DOCTORS, PSYCHIATRISTS;

VEHIGLE DEPTS IN ALL STATES:

ALI

"EMPLOYERS OF

DOCTORS

CHIEFS

OF

AND HOSPITALS:

456 ladd

TO:

ALI

u.s.

POLICE EVERYWHERE AND ALL DISTRICT ATTORNEYS;

ATTORNEYS,

u.s.

TO:

ALL

TO:

EMPLOYEES. OF ALL FEDERAL,

MARSHALS AND EVERY STATES ATTORNEY GENERAL;

STATE,

Aul.

MAYORS, CITY COUNCILS AND THEIR EMPLOYEES,

COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL

COURTS:

PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION;

KOSLAUPATIS.

AIRLINES,

ALL PUBLIC UTILITIES,

BUS LINES

MARKETS,

15309

MERCHANDISE STORES,

PIRE

AIRPORT EMPLOYEES,

BAKKS,

SUPERIOR COURTS, MUNICIPAL

COURTS,

SUPREME

COURT. OF

COURTS,

DEPTS: POST OFFICES,

APPEAL'S

THE

SUPREME

THE UNITED STATES, ALL

COURTS

STATE HOSPITALS,

SHERIFPS PACILITIES,

CITY COUNCILS,

PRISONS,

POLICE FACILITIES,

WARNING LI

MERA MAGNIFICO, THE DEPUTY PRESIDENT

I UNICE TO COLAR FEMALE GENERAT

INVIERNATIONAL

DIRECTOR OF THE

122 VES MARINE, CORP: STNCE

I ADICE: J/2041: COMMANDIRE CENTRAT OF

THE PLOT TO KIDRAP

GENE RAI:: MACH IPICO

M. KELLEY

THE

DOMESTIC DIRECTOR OF INE, P.B.T.

CLARBACE

FOR AND WITH CERTAIN; KNOW;

CONSPIRATORS (SEE BACK OF PAGE) BY USING ILLEGALLY AND UNLAWFULLY AND

CRIMINALLY THE

FACILITIES AND

PERSONNEL OF

FIELD OFFICES.

THE PEDERAL BÚREAU OF

INVEST ICATTON

1Y40EAO 7052

6027943

CLARENCE M. KELLEY -PRI,

NICHOLAS P.

CALLAHAN

THOMAS J

JENKINS-

JAMES B.

ADAMS -

EUGENE

WALSH

MADNEW J.

130.

DONALD.

DECKER

W. - MOORE,

973E3 JOHN JO'MCDERMOTT

JR.

GALLACHER

HAROLD

BASSETT

.W. RAYMOND WANNALI

COCHRAN ,JR

* 20 JOHN AB MINTZ

HERBERT E. HOXIF

IWM.V.

CLEVELAND

WM M..

-MOONEY

JOHN W.

WM C. SULLIVAN

JOHN P.

POTATO, BULLTIN, ON MAY FIRS

MOHR

1977, THE KIDAPINO PLOT IS PLANNID TO PARE PIACE UFON TRB' ARRIVNI OF GEMIRAI

THOMAS E. BISHOP

ROBERT F.

GE BHARDT

SACH RICO

ON TA AIRLINES PROM

AT

Z0D0 P.M

LOS ANILES AT TRE AIRPORT IN ST.

LOUIS,

JOSEPH J.

BF. EX

RENTED. AT

A RIOGED: PLANTED: AUTO, PROM

CASPER

LOUIS,

THE NATIONAL' CAR RENTAI.

IVAN W.

MISSOURDENHICH, IS TO

AGINCY HAS -

TAKF

GENERAI MAGNIFICO AWAY

WASON

G.

CAMPBELL

PROP THE AIRPORT TO THE: PLACE-WHERE "SHEIS TO BE KIDNAPED' AND LATER KILLED

ROBT RUSS PRANCK

AREA.WHERE THE, CRIME- IS-PLANNED- NO:

"X PERT A COSE GARUD SECRET A TAL ATTORNEY CREEL OF TINED.50

MARK FELT

"GALE""

AND FIVERY PERSON INVOLVED IN THE CONSPIRACY IS BEING CLOSELY WATCHED BY F.B.I.

ALEX ROSEN

AGENTS WHO ARE WORKING DIRECTLY UNDER THE ATTÓRNEY GENERAL AND ARE ORDERED TO

CHAS D.

BRENNAN

GO OVER THE HEAD OF CLARENCE M.

wM.S.'

KELLEY AND THOSE IN HIS OFFICE.

NANTAL

THE ATTORNEY, GENERAL: OF. THE UNITED ETATES GRIPPIN BELL MAKES THIS REPEATPI

LEONARD M.

WALTERS

ARMING TO ALI

50P N09

•FLETCHER: D.") THOMPSON

OPFICER ON ACTIVE ...

HELEN GANDY

THIS IS A FINAL WARNING FOR ALI

JACOBSON

FUNNEX OR SUYTER TRE: CONSEQUENCES AS STAIRD ABOVE IN FAN WARNINGS

4ECCO CERNARD S.

MILLER

10 AID AND ABET CLARENCE KELLEY AND HIS COLLASORATORS ANY FURTHER HILL CAUSE

BRIGGS S.

WHITE

ALL CHARGES NAMED HEREIN TO BE PLACED AGAIRST THOSE PERSONS WHO DO NOT HEED

RICHARD J.

THOMAS J.

BAKER

BITS WARNING IN THIS CONSPIRACY OR ANY LEON

JENKINS

WESLEY

GRAPP

NW. 55923 DocId: 32264272 - Fage 2

NAMES OP

OF THE

THOSE UNDER INVESTIGATION, BY THE ATTORNEY EMERAI

FOR CRIMES

UNITED STATES GRIPPIN BELI: &-THE CONGRESS OF U.S.

ON OFLAY E SIDE OF PAG:

RICHARO, M.

NiXON.

THOMAS L.

CORDIN, JERRORE S.

GRANT,

ALLEN MILLER. :DR.

JOHN SHERMAN COOPER,

OLIVER,

THRUSTOS MORTON

'BERLINER, DR.

HAMMETT,

GORE,

DOCTORS.OF

WESTHOOD PRIVATE.

DR DOROTRY

Lades:

•BARRINGTON..

PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL

PROTEM

JOAN

..

LA:", JUDGE LEOPOLDO

DR.

CARNEY, DR. RONALD

SANCHEZ,

JUDA!.

SEYMOUR POLLACHI

MARKMAN; DR.

DR. ALVIN DAVIS,

ROOF.

WILFRED- ROOF,

.:3401

HARVEX MCKEE.

ROOP

MAMIE EISENHOWER,

KOENAKE,

BETTY PORD,

GERALD R.

KENNEDY ONASSIS,

LADY BIRD JOHNSON,

JACKIE

MARGARET

M.K.

MARLOWE

HALDEMAN, JOHN EHRLICKMAN,

TRUMAN DANIELS, PAT NIXON, JOHN

• CHARLES COLSON,

& SONS JOHN,

FAMILY,

DEWEY,

GENE, JAMES & MARK V:.

MARTIN

STILL, DONALD DAWSON,

RAY,

LAVINIA (MRS.

i Statu

TOM

JAMES -STEWARI, ATTY.. CHAS S. LEEDS,

---

## Page 3

CLERK®

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

POST OFFICE BOX 2201

WICHITA: KANSAS 67201

OFFICIAL BUSINESSE

PENALTY FOR PRIVATE USE, $300

Bi

MAGNIFICO

151

BoX

11998.

RECEIVED

GENERAL

p.o-

HER

sePt.

FROm A.M.

8:0°

-p M

SEP 20

1978

Post Office Box: 151

Firestone Station

South Gate, California 90280

ARTHUR G. JONNSON

CLERK

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

OFFICE OF THE CLERK

DiSTRICT OF KANSAS

Wichi tas Kansas

September 20,

1978

Mr. James P. Buchele

United States Attorney

Post Office

Box: 1537

Topeka, Kansas 66601

Dear Mr. Buchele:

I enclose an unopened letter delivered to our office

As which was addressed to "The Federal Grand Jury, United States

F2a Government, Wichita, Kansas."

Viu

Since your office handles grand jury matters inthe

District of Kansas.

Lam forwarding it to you for whatever

attention you deem necessary.

Very truly yours,

ARTHUR G. JOHNSONG CLE

CaroliNe cus

By: Carotyn J. Brown, Deputy

cresaco: sP.0.

Box 151

Firestone Station

South Gate, California 90280

SNOIL HISSESSY NO SALINHOO

127278 ASOOH ST

81. 6W 01 100 8151

09A15078

WW 55p23.

DocId: 32264272 Pagé-3i

POST

ZRL80RRO)

SAILERERO

AA COLA

---

## Page 4

FEDERAL GRAND JURY INUESTIGATION

WARNING

Offo

NoTE

UNDER FEDERAL

LAW THERE: IS

IN STATUTE OF

LIMOTATOONOF

V CONSPIRACY

TIME FOR

GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION

PROSECUTION OF

NATIONAL PERSONNEL RECORDS CENTUR

CONSPIRACY

TANTANY PINE ONNEL RECCRDOI

ALL POINTS BULLETIN C

political kidnaping with

intended murder

RAINST CLARENCE M. KELLEY,

INVESTIGATION AND THOSE CO-COUSPIRATORS

THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE

AND ALREADY

ATTEMPTED MURDER

WARNING TO WROMSOEVER IT MAY CONCERN:

OF GENERAL

ANE CHARGED WITH. UIOLANTONS

KELLEY AND CO-CONSPIRATORS

(CONSPIRACY): 1201 (KIDNAPING),

MAGNIFICO

1001 (FRAUD AND FALSE

201 (BRIBERY & GRAFT),

STATEMENTS),

CATIONS),

2311 (STOLEN PROPERTY),

2510 (WIRE INTERCEPTION & INTERCEPTION OF

111 (ASSAULT),

ORAL COMMUNI-

BURGLARY),

2231 (SEARCHES & SEIZURES),

2111 (ROBBERY &

FEMALE COMMAMDINE

2071 (RECORDS & REPORTS),

1751 (PRESIDENTIAL ASSAISINATIONS, KIDNAPING & ASSAULT),

1901 (PUBLIC OFFICERS & EMPLOVEES),

GENERAL U.S,M.

1621 (PERJURY),

SINCE

- 1-19x1

1541 (PASSPORTS & VISAS),

1501 (OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE)

ALSO

1111 (HOMICIDE ),

1361 (MALICIOUS MISCHIRE),

1341 (MAIL

871 (EXTORTION

rMaur..

641 (EMBEZZLEMENT & TIETY),

SI THREATS),

791 (ESPIONAGE & CENSORSHIP).

351 CONGRESSIONAL ASSASSINATION, KIDNAPING

591 (PECTIONS & POLISICAL ACTIVITIES),

& ASSAULT)

ETC.

U.S. SECRET -5-1938

SERVICE

TO: ALL

JUDGES,

TO SALI

JUSTICES AND ALL, COUNTS EMPLOYEES EVERYWHERE:

EMPLOYEBS OY EUTH HOUSES OF

UNITED

Trouser

STATES CONGRESS:

THE INTERNATIONAL

TO: ALL

ALL

SHERIPPS,

ALL LAN ENPORCING OFFICERS

TO: ALI

& AGENCIPS EVERSTIERE:

ALL POST. OFFICES

& POSTAL

ALL EMPLOYEES OF ALL MOTOR

DEPY3

SERVICE:

DIRELTOR OF THE

IN ALL STATES:

DOCTORS, PSYCHIATRISTS.

EMPLOVEES OF DOCTORS

AND BOSPITALS:

FEDERAL BUREAU

CHIEFS OF. POLICE

unher park

U.s.

ATTORNEYS,

ALTD

ALL

DISTRICT ATTORNEYS:

101

EMPLOYEES OF ALL FEDERAL,

U.S. HARJIALS ABID EVERY STATES APPOINEY GENERAL:

0F

STATE,

COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL

SING-20 APRIL

In GATes

COUrt'g:

MAYORS,

CITY

COUNCILS AND

PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION,

TEZIR EMPLOYEES,

ALL PUBLIC UTILITIES,

AIRLINES,

BUS LINES

RESTAURANTS,

MArNeTS,

FERCHANDISE STORES,

AIRPORT EMPLOYEES,

FIRE

SUPERIOR COURNe.

MUNICIPAL

Counts,

DEPTS:, POST OFFICES,

APPRALS COURTS

THE

nur drur

COURTS

CoUnT OF

THE UNITSD STATIC.

ALL

SOPHEME

CITY

HOSPITALS,

SHERIFF'S PACILITIES.

COUNCILS, PRISONS,

POLICE

NAVY ESTABLISHMENTS, AUTOYOBILE

FACILITIES,

MILITARY

JAILS,

INSURANCE. COMPANIES,

BROKERS,

TRUMANNE

DIESELITY ADE DUSTINEN

WAKWING 11

STAYS GRISEN ENLI AND U.5. REAVENS DE SUSPICE 20 KTOMAP PEMALE

MERA MAGNIFICO,

THE DEPUTY PRESIDINT

7717100&

INTERLATIONAL, DIRECILL OR ME

TEN MORE MARTEE CORNS BYECT

IS BICH 1241 CONNE STA

24/28514 Veg

ACT OURVICE BACK

„NAL PLOY TO KIOSAF

GPRETAL

116/100,

M. KELLEY i

CONSPIRATORS (SSE

NIC DOVESTIC DIRECTOR OF TE P.B.I.

MACHTYICO IS LAMME SPCAN-INADED BY CLAPLUCE

BACK OF PAGE)

FOR AND WITH CERTAIN IRONY 6OU

CRIMINAILY THE

BX USING ILLEGALLY AND UNLAUFULLY AND

FACILITIES AID PERSONALL, OF THE FEDERAL

ANU AL 119

FIELD OFFICES.

BUREAU OP

INVESTIRATION

IE. ATTORNEX GENERAL

AND

CLARIUEL ME NELLEY IS NON UNDER INVESTIGATIO BY

TALIVES.

THE UNIZAD ACADES PALATE A62 U.S.

HOUSE OF RETENORE

38 BOY SON 1043

DAXE AFTER

NON THE ISSUANCE 86S0S ARN BINOR

ISSUANCE

1977,

THE KIDDING FLOT IS

MAGERICO ON ERA AIRLIKES FROM LOS PESTLED AR WILL AIRFORT

VRACE UPON TIE ARRIVAI, O2 GENERAL

AT 201O p.M.

A RIGGED.

In 8T.

LOUIS, DO..

PLANTED

AUTO PROM

BREN RENTED AT ST.

THIr. NATIONAL

CAR ReNTAI.

LOUIS,

MISSOURIANNACH IS

TAKE. GENERAL

AGINCY HAS -

PROF, THE AIRFORT TO THE

MAGNIPICO AWAY

WHERE

"BY ACCIDENT" AFTER BEING DRUGGED.

SHE. IS TO BE KIDNAPED AND LATER KILLED

THE AREA WHERE

THE

TAKE PLACE

CRINE •IS PLANNED TO

AND FIVERY PERSON INVOLVED

IS A CLOSELY GUARDED SECTAT BY THE ATTORNEY GERERAL OF THE U.S.

CONSPIRACY

WHO ARE

IS BEING CLOSELY WATCHED BY F.B.I.

GO OVER THE HEAD OF

WORKING DIRECTLY UNDER THE ATTORNEY GENERAL AND ARE ORDERED TO

CLARENCE

KELLEY AND THOSE IN HIS OFFICE.

TO. ALL

CONCERNED:

GENERAL PLENIPICO 1S A

DUIX AND IS VITAL, TO THE DEFENSE OP 214Z UNITED

MOPICER ON ACTIVE

STATES. SHE CANNOT DE REPLACED.

HIS IS A FINAL WARNING FOR ALL CONSPTRATONS NUCLULD 10 CHASE AND DESTST

WINK OR SUITER IN CONSAQUENCKS AS RYALED MOVE TN TV. VARIE.

10 AID AND ABST CLARENCE

ALL CHARGES NAMED HEREIN 70 BE PLACED

FELLEY AND HIS CORSAENRAXORS APY PURTHER HILL CAUSE

THI& WAINING IN THIS CONSTRACY; IS NADE

NON GIN:

CLARENCE Mi.

KELLEY

NICHOLAS P.I CATTAMAN. •

TOMAS Ji

JENKINS:

JAMES B. ADAMS

EUGENT W."WAI,SH

'DECKER"

INNALD WI MOORE.

: JR.

McDERMOTT

RICHARD J. GALLACHER.

RICHARD H.

ASH

narone w.

BASSETT

RAYMOND WANNALI

JAY COCHRAN

JOHN A. MINTZ

HERSERT E.

wMV.

CLEVELAND

#M M.

MOONEY

Monk.

MARSHALL

WM

C. SULLIVAN

THOMAS

E. BISHOP

CC SHART

CASPER

AYAN W

WASON G. CAMPBELL

ROBT RUSS FRANCK

MARK FELT"

JAMES H. GALE:

ALEX ROSEN

CHAS D. BRENHAN

LEONARD M. WALTERS

FLETCHER D. THOHPSON

HELEN GANDY

1Adr49r

EDWARD SO MILLER

BRIGGS S.

RICHARD J.

BAKER

THOMAS J. JENKINS

WESLEY GRAPP

SOCIAL SECURITY

#OF GENERAL MAGNIFICO IS

JEK Act 6 (3)

SHEr WAS

BORNIN UNION

COUNTY

KENTUCKY ON SUNDAY, JULY 4,

1920

NAMES OF THOSE UNDER.

THE UNITED

INVESTIGATION BY SIS ATTORY CLAPRAI

STATES GRIPPIN BELL & HE CONCREAS Or U.B.

RICHARD

DOKALD W. GRANT,

COUTH, JERROLE S. OLTVER.

JUDGE

ALLEN MILLER,

JOHN SHERMAN COOPER, THRUSTUS

-DR.

HAMME. TS.

MORTOn,

BERLINER,

DR.

CORE. OR DOROFITY

2412.5.

DOCTORS O? WESTWOOD PRIVATE PSYCHIATRIC HOLITAL

PROTEM JOAN

BARRINGTON, IN. LA. "JUDGE LEOPOLDO SANCHEZ, JUDY

CARNEY-DR.

Un.-

SE IMOOR

POLLACE.

RONALD MARIMAN, DR. SKERDLA, SHEN

ROOF,

DR. AL,VIN DAVIS. HARVEY MCKPE, DUZOIN

MAMIE EISENHOWER:

WILFRED ROOT, WALDA ROUP KOENBRE, GERALD REPOND,

BETTY PORD LADY BIRD JOHNSON. JACKIE

KENNEDY ONASSIS, MARGARET TRUMAN DANIELS. PAT DIXONEYOHN!

MITCHELL. H.R: HALDMAN, JOHN CARLICHMAN:

CHARLES OULSON,

PAMILY.

MARLOVE & SONS JOHN, GENE, JAMES & MARK V. HARTING

DENEY:, ROY H..

LAVINIA(ARS. TOY

STILL, DONALD DAWSON, JAMES STRUART, ATTY. CHASIS, LEADSI

STILL) 707

NW.

55923

DocId: 32264272

Page

---

## Page 5

CLERK

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

POST OFFICE BOX 2201

WICHITA. KANSAS 67201

OFFICIAL BUSINESS

PENALTY FOR PRIVATE USE, $300

MAGNITICO

15'

1918

RECeIVED

GENERAL

P.o.

HER

SEPT. 22,

FROM

8:00

A.

PM

SEP 20

1978

P307404AK

UNTHE STAT

Post Office Box 15i

Firestone Station

South Gate, California 90280

ARTHUR G. JOHNSON

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

OFFICE OF THE CLERK

DISTRICT. OF KANSAS

Wichita, Kansas

NOTE:

September 20, 1978

REGARDING CONSPIRACY AIDNAPING WITH ATTEMPTED

AND INTENDED MURDER OR

GENERAL M. MAGNIFICO,

FEMALE FEDERAL OFFICER

ON DUTY.

SEE BACK OF PAGE

Mre James P. Buchele

United States Attorney

Post Office Box 1537

Topeka, Kansas 66601

Dear Mr. Buchele:

I enclose an unopened letter delivered to our office

which was addressed to

"The Federal Grand Jury, United States

Government, Wichita, Kansas."

Since your office handles grand jury matters in the

District of Kansas, I am forwarding it to you for whatever

attention you deem necessary.

Very truly yours,

ARTHUR G. JOHNSON, CLERK

Carolin

roun

By: Carolyn J. Brown, Deputy

CC:

P.0. Box 151 -

Firestone Station

South Gate, California 90280

TEL# OF GENERHE MAGNiFICO IS

2/3

569-8067

3177 LIBERTY BLUA

SOUTH GATE CALIR

NW 55923

•DocId: 32264272

Page

---

