# docid-32298850

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10224-10130

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-92, 93, 94,95

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, CG

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/16/1960

7

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/21/1998

SGI, ASSOC, WHEREABOUTS, B/F INT, GAMBLING ACT,

INTV, FANELLI, CARMEN, TESUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 3 A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32298850

Page 1'

385

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI.

Date:

12/16/60

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

DIRICTOR, FBI (92-3171)

F'ROM

: SAC, CHICAGO (92-349)

SAMUSE M.

GIANCANA

ANTI-RACKETEERING

4/20184 SP5RFS/Burz

VEEKLY SUMMARY AIRTEL

Re

weeily airtel dated 12/9/60 regarding information

furnished

pertaining to the Armory lounge contained in referenced

airtel.

(7)

The

Springield Office advised by airtel dated

12/14/60

that the files of the Corporation Division, Secretary

of State's Office,

springfield, Illinois, revealed that the

Country. Investment Corporation, jiled articles oi incorporation

on 10/9/56, the incorporators being CARMEN BRUNO, 1014 North

2lst Avenue,

Nelrose Pars, Illinois, PETER GERRING, 920 Norti

20tn Avenue,

Melrose Pari, Illinois, and SAM ALUPPA, 910 North

22ti Avanue, Melrose Park, Illinois.

The address of the

corporation

was listed as

10 North Broadway, Meirose Paris,

11112013. 40

It

is

noted that this corporation owns the property

upon which the armory Lounge, i4zr west Roosevelt Road,

Forest Pari, Illinois, is located. Be )

The

annual report of this corporation filed 2/29/60

revealed the

following oïficers of the corporation as follows:

D.

J. BRUNG, President

10

Broadway

Melrose Park, Illinois

3 - Bureau (RU)

- Chicago

REC- 38

RRIt: che

(4)

92-5111-94

DE. 19 :!

WACK

• "Approved'

ARDEÜ 27 isagrial Agent in Charge

Sent

_M

Per _

DocId: 32298850

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-349

SAM AIUPPA, Secretary

1546 North

18th Avenue

Melrose Park, Illinois

JAMES AIUPPA, Treasurer

300 Lawndale Avenue

Melrose Park, Illinois

ALUPPA, who is a former top hoodlum of the Chicago Office and

close associate of SAM GIANCANA. AIUPPA at one time maintained

a high degree. of control of gambling interests in Cicero, Illinoise,

CG 6428-C advised on 12/15/60 that one of GIANCANA'S

principal bases for operation as of early 1960 was Gus' Steak

House,

4817 West Roosevelt Road, Cicero, Illinois. The informant

stated that GIANCANA utilized a back room of this establishment

for meetings and iscusually accompanied by an individual known

as DUKE (LNU) who always carries a briefcase with him.

these occasions DUKE makes telephone calls from Gus' Steak House

utilizing the telephone booth and conducts all conversations in

Italian.

Usually two or three days subsequent to these telephone

calls another meeting is called at Gus' Steak House which,

according to the informant,.

is attended by hoodlums'"from all

over the country"

Gus' steak House is operatod by' GUS KRiGES (7C

Information has come to the attention of this office

in the past that Gus! Steak House is a well known gambling

establishment

and these gambling operations are conducted on

the second floor. of 4817

West Roosevelt Road. (4)

Dün a

and Bradstreet reports, as checked on

12/6/60,

reflects that Gus'. Steak House is owned by KYRIAKOS VAVAROUTSON

and STEVE HARRIS,

who took over this restaurant from KREGES

and one SELEMOS.

- 2

DocId: 32298850

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-349

This report reveals that the assets of the business

consisted of about $500 in inventory and $2,000 in equipment

and fixtures. Financial details are lacking and no banking

connections are said to be maintained. (U)

CG 6343-C advised on 12/9/60 that "MOONEY" was due

back

in town during the early morning of 12/9/60 or late

evening of 12/8/60.

This source further advised that an individual

believed to be GIANCANA was present during a conference between

MURRAY HUMPHREYS, FRANK FERRARO,&GUS ALEX held on 12/14/60.

One of the purposes of this conference was a discussion of the

possibilities of investments in Las Vegas, Nevada, primarily

the

Stardust Hotel. (4)

PCI GLADYS EBLE advised on 12/15/60 that she

observed the automobile utilized by GIANCANA at the Armory

Lounge on that date.

The informant stated, however, that she

did not observe GIANCANA at that time (4)

Regarding SALVATORE DI MUCCI referred to in the

weekly airtel

summary of 12/2/60 as the beneficiary of the

Flamingo Motel trust, information has been received to the

is a director of the Mount Prospect

Savings and Loan Association, Mount Prospect, Illinois, and

was said to be one of the hidden manipulators behind the purchase

of the Mount Prospect Country Club which was operated by

RICHARD HUFF, who was said to have close hoodlum connections.

•DI MUCCI is also said to be possibly the source of hoodlum

investment money which is used for

the building and operation

of motels, a large number of which have been constructed

recently in thennorthwest suburbs.

This matter will be followed

closely. (4)

-3

-

DocId: 32298850

Page 4

---

## Page 5

FBI

Date:

12/9/60

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

: SAC, CHICAGO (92-349)

SAMUEL M.

ANTI-RACKETEERING

GIANCANA, aKa.

ude

pr.

INED

WEEKLY SUMMARY AIRTEL

SATRIO

Re weekly airtel summary dated 12/2/60.

PCI GLADYS EBLE advised on 12/6/60,

was on that date seen at the Armory Lounge,

that GIANCANA

Roosevelt Road, at approximately 12:00 midnight. (4)

7427 West

Bureau Agents in connection with Chicago case

"CARMEN F'ANELLI, PERJURY", Chicago file 74-188. FANELLI

was seemingly cooperative to the agents and answered all

questions posed to him in connection with his selling of

Foxhead 400 Beer in his establishment CANELLI verified

i the lact that the meeting between TONYACCARDO and heads

of the Foxhead Brewery for the purpose of placing ACCARDO

in as salesman was held at the Armory Lounge in 1956.

During the interview, it was possible for one of the agents

to make a physical observation of this establishment on

the pretext of having a perfunctory interest in the premises.

It was noted that there is a private dining room located in

the rear of the restaurant separated from the main building

by a door which is approximately 14 X 20 feet in size. It

contains an extension telephone,

large tables and a small table.

carpeting,

and holds

This would in all probability

be the location of any meetings which would go on in the

Armory Lounge between GIANCANA and other members of his

organization.

14

DATE

- Bureau (RM)

1 - Chicago

RRH: lac

(4)

REC- 92

92-3171-13

Coul

1-120

# DEG 12 1960

Approved:

5 9DEC22

ecial Agent in Charge

0360

Sent

- Per

DocId: 32298850

Page 5

---

