# docid-32325567

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90036-10009

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-160425-22

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

AT

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/29/1967

2

ANGEL SANTOS BUSH

EJERCITO DE LIBERACION CUBANO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

• v9.1

DooId: 32325567

Page

---

## Page 2

OFTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

GSA GEN. REG. -

57. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105160425) DATE:

FROM

JUlE SAS, AFASTA (105-3788) 8

6/29/67

CIA HAS NO OBJFOTION TO

DECLASSIC AT 08 AND/OR,

RELEASE N. SIA INORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. K10-2-97

SUBJECT:

EJERCITO DE LIBFBAGION CUBANG

SUD/KSR

(CUBAN ARMY OF LIBERATION) (ELC)

11-5-97

(HEADED BY HIGINIO "NINO" DIAZ ANE)

IS - CUBA

NM • CUBA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

(JER)

00: MIAMI

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Re Atlanta airtel to Bureau 4/26/67 and Miami

letter to

Bureau dated 5/26/67.

Enclosed

for the Bureau are 9 copies of an LHM

dated

and

captioned

as above.

Enclosed for Miami are two

copies and for New

York, Newark, and San Juan one

copy of

above-described LHM.

Also enclosed for the Miami and

San Juan Offices is one copy each of a letter addressed

to the Atlanta members of the above organization and

signed CHARLES A. SANTOS BUCH dated 4/25/67.

AT T-1 is

ERNESTO DOMENECH, PSI of the Atlanta

Office, who has not furnished sufficient information to

determine

his reliability.

Ith is being classified "Confidential"

in order to protect

the identity of the source AT I-1

whose identity if

disclosed could jeopardize his future

effectiveness and also the unauthorized disclosure of the

LAMs content

court be prejudicial to the best interest

of

the U.

Inment.

Bureau

Miami

(Ene

(Eno

1- Newark

I= New YorE

1: San Juar

9)

3)

(RM)

(RM)

1.?!

(RM)

(Ene.

1)

(Ene.

2)

(RM)

(RM)

BEC 1095-145425-22

2= Atlanta

81 JUL 3 1967

(9)

JUL1819

21

State/CIA/S

Army/Navy/Air Force/DIA/Customs/Coast Guard

Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, State

By R/S For Info

Date n-4-12 By VINes

ERICAN

LATIN A

Masca

DocId: 32325567

Page 2

---

