# docid-32291485-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/20/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10207-10261

HQ

166-4355-92

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

REPPUCCI, CHARLES A.

• TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE : 06/29/1970

'PAGES: 22

SUBJECTS :

MANOCCHIO, LUIGI GIOVANNI, GAMBLING, VENDITUOLI,

FRANK, FUG, FISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

---

## Page 2

-Firzaiger: 12-19.671

FEDERAL SUREAU OF IN

STIGATION

REFORTING OFFICE

BOSTON

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

BOSTON

TITLE OF CASE

LUIGI GIOVANNI ANOCCHIO,

aka LUGITIVE,

IO # 4335;

FRANK ANTHONY VENDITUOLI, aKE

FUGITIVE, IO # 4346

DATE

6/29/70

INVESTIGATIVE FERIO

4/7/70-6/17/70

REPORT MADE BY

CHARLES A. RAPPUCCI

CHARACTER OF CASE

ITAR - GAMBLING

8:11-69

7-8'20

REFERENCE: Report of SA CHARLES A. REPPUCCI dated 4/28/7090

at Boston;

Butte letter to Boston dated 4/30/70 I0;

Buffalo Letter to Boston dated 4/30/70 I0;

Chicago letter to Boston dated 5/1/70 I0;

airtel to New Haven dated 6/6/70 IO.

_P-

TYFED BY

Dinn

CONVIC AUTO.

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

ES NONE

ACQUIT-

RECOVERIES

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR LYES LINO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

EYES DINO

Hin blen,

SPECIAL

AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

166-4355-92

REC 53

Bureau

(166-4355)

2-Albany

(166-366)

2-New Haven (165-442)

1-New York (106-2510)

EX-105

JUL 6 1970

2-Philadelnhin

2-Savar.an

4-Bsrton (166-845)

Dissemination Recoid of Attached Report

Notati

Agency

Reone iced.

Date Hid.

How Ford.

Boom

O UJUL9

- 1970

Fann

criminal Division,

Hacketeering Sertion

COVER PAGE

GRy : 10080 - 291-866

---

## Page 3

BS 166-845

NEWARK DIVISION

Willat Department of Motor Vehicles, determine

subscriber to 1909 New Jersey license NKB-W5, and

interview re IO subject VENDITUOLI.

It is noted he was charged with speeding on

7/30/69 at Nahunta, Ga. with this license plate in the

vehicle.

Will also check operators file and registration

files for name of I subject VENDITuOLI.

PHILADELPHIA DIVISION

AT. DALLAS, PA:

Will cover same leads set out for New York Office

at Miadletown, N.Y. for the Ritthoffer Amusement Co.

SAVANNAH DIVISION

AT NAHUNTA, GA •

Will, at the ordinary Court, under court case #

3364 check records set forth for Il subject VENDITUOLI

for 7/30/69 on a

charge of speeding.

Will review records for any information available.

to ascertain VENDITUOLI's present whereabouts.

BOSTON

AT BOSTON, MASS•

Will maintain contact with BS 1159-CTE re subject

of this case.

Will at Shamrock Fisheries, Northern Blva.,

contact

officials to ascertain if Il subject VENDITUOLI is known.

to them.

COVER PAGE

C

---

## Page 4

BS 166-845

ADMINISTRATIVE:

For the information of the Bureau, this report

is a lugitive investigative report and does not. include

any prosecutive action.

A prosecutive report was submitted on 6/9/70,

report of SA CHARLES A. REPPUCCI dated 6/9/70 at Boston.

Prosecutive reports are being submitted

separately from a fugitive type investigation.

On 4/21/70, BS 1159-CTE advised SA DENNIS M.

CONDON that FRANK VENDITUOLI had been operating a 1970

two tone Cutlass, which bears a license tag

from the.

State of New York.

Informant said VENDITUOLI is operating

between New York and Connecticut area nd is in contact

with a close associate of his in connecticut who is

known as

"Connecticut Pete"

"Connecticut Pete's"

identity

is known to the New Haven Division.

Informant was unable to furnish the numbers

appearing on the New York license plate for this car.

The above information was telephonically

furnished the New Haven Division.

The details of this report contain an interview

with INA FRICK, 135 Hope Street, Seekonk, Mass., wherein

she reported. pn. 4/23/70 that subject FRANK VENDITUOLI

had been in telephonic contact with her at her home

telephone 617-336-7527.

On that occasion Mrs. FRICK advised subject

VENDITUOLI had told her he would be in telephonic contect

with her between the hours of 10:15 AM and 11:00 AM as he

was aware she had to report for work at the Howard Johnson

Restaurant, Seekonk, Mass. by 12:00 noon.

COVER PAGE

---

## Page 5

BS 166-845

Mrs. FRICK was

contacted on a daily basis

from 5/18/70 to 6/17/70 .and she said VENDITUOLI has not

been in contact with her.

on 4/29/70, BS 1131-PC advised SA MARTIN P.

CONLEY that he had heard that FRANK VENDITUOLI had

restaurant.

Informant said he had heard that a person

named "Pace" who operates a fruit store and a junk yard

in Fall River, Mass. used to be very friendly with

VENDITUOLI.

Other PCI's and CI's of the Boston Office

were unable to furnish any information concerning

MANOCCHIO Or VENDITUOLI.

that he had heard

he had heard that PRAns

On May 8, 1970, BS 1159-CTE again advised

that FRANK VENDITUOLI is moving about

the East Coast constantly and is operating the 1970

two tone Cutlass bearing New York registration plate.

Informant further advised LOUIS MANOCCHIO iS

hiding out in the Brooklyn, New

York area.

Informant said that neither of the subjects

are disguised and NANOCCHIO sometimes dresses himself to

look like a working man.

The above information was furnished the New

Fore uf'fice:

COVER PAGE

---

## Page 6

BS 166-845

On May 1, and 8, 1970, BS 942 CTE advised

SA WILLIAM J. WELBY he had not heard anything concerning

the whereabouts of LOUIS MANOCCHIO OF FRANK VENDITUOLI.

Informant said it could be possible that NICK BIANCO,

ICN member at New York could be hiding MANNOCCHIO as

both are very close friends.

On May 18, 1970, the New Haven Division

furnished the following information:

On May 7, 1970, NH 603 CTE advised subject

FRANK CENDITUOLI has been associated with carnivals

in the past and worked for FRANK FORTI and ROCKY DELL. s

who are associated with RAYMOND PATRIARCA in their

carnival business.

CI stated FORTE and DELL had their carnival

in Connecticut, but informant was unable to ascertain

the name under

which they are operating. Infornant

said they work fairs, carnivals, etc. throughout the

New England states as well as upper New York State.

On May 19, 1970, Captain JAMES MULLEN, Head

Detective Division, Rhode Island State Police,

advised

that in interviews with FRANK FORTI it had been

determined he had booked carnivals through the following

two establishments:

1.. Howard Amusements, Middletown, N.Y.

2. Ritthoffer Amusements

Dallas, Pa.

On June

3, 1970, BS 1159-CTE advised SA DENNIS M.

CONDON that LOUIS MANOCCHIO is still around the Brooklyn,

New York area but is planning on moving because he

understands that FBI

agents have been showing his photo

and asking questions about him in this area.

COVER

PAGE

---

