# docid-32142094

## Page 1

8/25/2014

National Archives and Records Administration

JFK Full Results

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10069-10065

RECORDS SERIES : HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 44-24016-1367

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : CLEMENTS, MANNING C.

TO : DIRECTOR,

FBI

TITLE

: [No Title]

DATE

: 04/03/1964

PAGES

: 120

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS

: JR, SUMMARY OF TRIAL, VERDICT

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/03/1996

OPENING CRITERIA

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : REPORT, TABLE OF CONTENTS INDEX PAGES A-E, INCLUDES

ONE ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE, THREE EXHIBITS

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

Exit JFK

1/2

---

## Page 2

REPORTING OFFICE

DALIAS

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGINE ONE

DALLAS

DA-

ITIAL

4/3/64

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

11/25/63 - 4/1/64

REPORT MADE BY

SA MANNING C. CLEMENTS

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPIO BY

eah

JACK Ho

RUBY aka,

LEE HARVEY OSWALD aka - VICTIM

(DECEASED)

DECLASSIFIER.

BY 9803.100/KSR

2: 5-43.

JFK SPECIA/

CR

METIN

9: D2 19.0527.

REFERENCES :

Reports of SA MANNING C. CLEMENTS,

18,19,21,31/63; 1/8,17,31, 2/18, 3/28/64.

Dallas, dated 11/30, 12/6,11,14,

-P-

ENCS. TO BUREAU:

Doc.

76154

1(2/3/89

Three sets each of photoss

(1) Bnvelope and letter addressed to JACK I. RUBY

(2) Two-page handprinted Application for Employment

Of JENO FARKAS

(3) Four pages of handwriting reported to be that of

FARKAS

ORALAGENT

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

44-

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

24016-1367

BUREAU (44-24016) (ENCS. -9)

53 APR 18 4984(41-26391

NORDSURE ATTACHED

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

17 APA

$ 1984

REG- 115

Hk.C- 44

NOTATIONS

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD...

HOW FWD.

SY.

1-1.11

111. 2

CONPIDANTIAN

DooId: 32142094

Page 2

---

## Page 3

156458,

Giacito cule

is имеса

Ряч C

9/23/88.

SP6-Bj

DI 44-1639/eah

CONFIDANTIAL

ADMINISTRATIVE

Reference is made to pages 40 - 48, report of SA

MANNING C. CLEMENTS, 2/18/64, relative to allegations RUBY

was in Cuba in late 1962 and

early 1963, and specifically

to the allegation he traveled to Cuba by air from Mexico City.

Legat, Mexico City, by communication 3/6/65, furnished

information received from CIA in a memorandum dated 2/27/64,

as follows:

"Information available to this office fails to

confirm that subject left Mexico for Habana, or arrived In

Mexico City from Habana by air anytime during 1962.

Reference pages 23 - 29, report of SA MANNING C.

CLEMENTS, concerning efforts to identify one "DAVIS,'

" with

whom RUBY had allegedly been in contact regarding shipment

' merchandise to 'Cuba.

The Miami Office has advised as follows:

7la

On 3/5/64, MM 639-S, true name HOWARD K. DAVIS,

advised he had seen

newspaper

photographs of JACK LEON RUBY

but had never seen him before, never had any dealings with

anyone with that name and had

never met him in Houston, Texas.

It Is noted MM 639-S 1s from Chicago, I1llno18;

Palm Beach and Miami, Florida, and does not have any criminal

record.

Miami sources and informants were contacted with

negative results concerning the identity of DAVIS.

Iocal federal agencies advised they do not know

anyone possibly identical with DAVIS.

Reference is made to page 712, report of SA MANNING

C. CLEMENTS, 11/30/64, Dallas, and Dallas airtel 1/29/04,

concerning a notation found in effects of ruby, as follows:

"CARLOS CAMORGO (probably CAMARGO), telephone

14-9628, Mexico Clty.

-C-

COVER PAGE

CONFIDE

DocId: 32142094 Page 3

: *

---

## Page 4

SA 44-748

CONFIDEX TIAL

The following investigation was conducted by

SA ROBERT L. CHAPMAN:

[AT NUEVO LAREDO, MEXICO CANU)

-BId

On November 25, 1963, PCI JOSE CAMACHO advised

that an American male was at the Papagayo Club at Nuevo

Laredo and had made the statement he was acquainted with

JACK RUBY, the person who had killed LEE HARVEY OSWALD. C' (U)

On November

25, 1963, SA 496-C advised that he

had located the above person named JAMES

WELLS at the

Papagayo Club and that WELLS was then at the Nuevo Laredo

Police Department. (STu)

DocId: 32142094

Page

-I-

COVERPAGE

CONNIDEXUIAL

---

