JFK Assassination System Date:
Identification Form

6/19/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER 124- 10348-10067
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 92-5177-161
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: NY
TO: HQ
TITLE
DATE: 08/16/1965
PAGES: 222
SUBJECTS
ANTHONY PROVENZANO
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMEN1

CLASSIFICATION +
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW >

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Unclassified
4

Redact
09/10/1998

INDEFINITE

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES 2-3, INC RS

val
DocId:32316538 Page 1


O

FD+283 (Rev. S+1-59)

oe

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

“ornczoronen

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/12/55 - 8/13/65 :

DATE

8/16/65

TILE OF CASE

HAROLD KONIGSBERG

REPORT MADE BY

PAUL G, DURKIN

TYPED BY

vme

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

REFERENCE:

\ —

New York airtel to Bureau, 5/13/65.

ENCLOSURES (2)

TO BUREAU

Original and one copy of letterhead memorandum
characterizing the informant utilized in instant report,

ADMINISTRATIVE:

An extra copy of this report is being forwarded to
the Newark Office in the event it is necessary to disseminate
it to the USA at Newark at a later date,

Also, extra copies are being retained by the NYO
in the event it is necessary to disseminate them to the USA,

SDNY, at a future date,

P

APPROVED ‘

COPIES MADE:

3 - Bureau :

3 - Newark

5 - New York

7
aa)

(SPECIAL AGENT
“tN CHARGE,

(OT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

a)
¥

(92-5177) (mneIse

(92-926)
(92-1893)

REG. 62

All F117. “Al

Dissemination Record of Attached Report _

| Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

bate Pwa.

How Pwd.

By

DocId:32316538 Page 2



i NY 92-1893
i
INFORMANTS :
H Identity of Source Contacting Agent
NY T-1 SA RUSSEL F. SULLIVAN
| THOMAS J. CLARK, PCI
LEAD:
NEW YORK

|
|
1
i
|

At New York, New York
See ork, Hew York

Will continue the interviews of HAROLD KONIGSBERG
who is currently incarcerated at FCI, Danbury, Connecticut,

COVER PAGE
- ce .



;
\
\
|
)

i
|

NY $2-1893

On Page 51 of the "New York Times" of May 25, 1963,
an article concerning the killing of WALTER GLOCKNER was :
carried and mentioned that in June, 1961, ANTHONY CASTELLITO,
Secretary-Treasurer of Local 560, International Brotherhood
of Teamsters, had disappeared and is presumed dead. "Observers
pelieved that his popularity had posed a threat to the
PROVENZANO leadership."

Motive for SAL BRIGUGLIO

It is to be noted on July 3, 1964, NY T-1 advised
that he heard from RICHIE BARRETT, who was incarcerated at
the New Jersey State Prison, Trenton, New Jersey; that
KONIGSBERG murdered "Three Fingers" CASTILLANO, CLARK stated
CASTILLANO (undoubtedly reference to CASTELLITO) was the
former President of Local 560, International Brotherhood of
Teamsters, in New Jersey. KONIGSBERG was assisted in this
murder by a SALLY BORGIO (phonetic) (undoubtedly SALVATORE
BRIGUGLIO) who became a business agent for Local 560 right
after the murder and as payment for his part in the murder.

On June 22, 1965, HAROLD KONIGSBERG advised that, as
part of the deal for killing CASTELLITO, ANTHONY PROVENZANO
(TONY PRO) promised SAL BRIGUGLIO a pusiness agent job.

According to the "Local 560 Teamster," Volume 2,
Number 5, May, 1963, which 1s published by Local Union 562,
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, 707 Surmit Avenue,
Union City, New Jersey, one of the pusiness agents listed was
SAL BRIGUGLIO,

Location of Murder Site
KONIGSBERG, on June 10, 1965, stated, "When they got

nim (CASTELLITO) to a farm in upstate New York, CASTELLITO was
killed."

-47 -

DocId: 32316536 Paye 4

