a

__ Report Forn
¥D263 (312955

ev

Reporting Office

Office of Origin Investigative Poriod

PHILADELPHIA PHILADELPHIA
TITLE OF CASE Report made by Typed By:
J, ROBERT PEARCE
ance LoBruNo CHARACTER OF CASE
st .
aw
SOLGX
Reference

Report of SA J, ROBERT PEARCE dated 5/31/60, at eee
Philadelphia letter to the Director dated 7/15 /6

-~P-
Leads
MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLA.:
Will conduct the following investigation regarding
ANGELO BRUNO as set forth in reference Philadelphia report:

*1, Will ascertain the identity of the cigarette
vending machine business in which ANGELO BRUNO has allegedly |
. purchased an interest at Miami Beach, Fla., noting that this

business is, according to PH ar eel in the name of SUE BRUNOY
wife of ANGELO BRUNO,

p VY] / special Agent oe
Aooved VC Y/ Secs ase Do not wile in apace below

Copies made:

AN Bureau (92-8737) eed Jie
2 - Miami (92-13
2 - Priladsionis’ (92-444)

ME tp

Property =5E ig a: ; 03 by thé FBI, and neither it nor te contents are to be distributed outside the

‘agency to which loaned.
|. Be U.S, GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: tose ‘o—se5a10 ; - a

Docld:32560419 Page 1


PH 92-440

*2, Will also endeavor to ascertain through
confidential sources or records pertaining to the transfer
of ownership of this business, the identity of the bank at
which ANGELO BRUNO or his wife, SUE BRUNO, have an account,
noting that SUE BRUNO told PH 523-C she wrote a check of
$50,000 in purchasing this business.

*3. Will contact MM 647-PC, who according to
Miami letter to Philadelphia 3/29/60, stated that ANGELO
BRUNO of Philadelphia, had gone into the cigarette vending
machine business in the Miami area,

*4, Will interview CHARLES I, COSTELLO who
maintains a residence at 12468 North Bayshore Drive, North

Miami, Fla., considering that ANGELO BRUNO and ANGELO BRUNO's :
wife furnished Miami telephone #NA 7-5095, listed to COSTELLO”
when obtaining reservations at National Airlines in Miami on

4/eh/eo, for flights from Miami, Flas, to’ Philadelphia, Pa.,
as-is set forth in Miami letter to Philadelphia 5/6/60.

*5. Will, though sources, ascertain if ANGELO
BRUNO has a financial interest in the Montmart (phonetic)
Notel "next to the Eden Roc" as ANGELO BRUNO's wife has
stated that she and her husband have a financial interest
in. this motel. Note: The above reference may be to the
Montmartre Hotel.

PHILADELPHIA

AT PHILADELPHIA, PA.:
1. Will maintain contact with informants
associated with BRUNO to ascertain his activities.

2. Will attempt to interview BRUNO to obtain
any additional information with emphasis on subject's
venturs in Florida.

Administrative Data

Note that Philadelphia letter to the Director
7/15/60, states that ANGELO BRUNO was in Florida almost
entirely since the date of last report. For this reason
a report would not be submitted until investigation was
completed by the Miami Division. This is the reason for
the extended investigative period in this report,

-B-

_ 4

rien
COVER PAGE SSAIANQV Sa9

Docld:32560419 Page 2


mo

PH 92-444

PH T-1
PH 523-C

PH T-2
PH 514-c

PH T-3
MM 647-PC

ra

Informants _

Contacted by SA J, ROBERT PEARCE

on 6/1/60 and 7/6/60

Contacted by SA J. ROBERT PEARCE

on 6/28/60 and 8/5/60

SA ELMER F, EMRICH, 7/21/60,
Miami letter to Philadelphia

7/29/60.

- 0 -

COVER. PAGE

SII“Gsw

DoclId:32560419 Page 3


GPMONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES

Memorus
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2717) DATE: 7/15/60
Al fron : SAC, PHILADELPHIA (92-139)

Co ANGELO BRUNO, aka; ”
Vy a _
|

Re report of SA J. ROBERT PEARCE dated 5/31/60 at Philadelphia.

On 7/6/60 PH 523-C advised that as of the previous Saturday,
7/2/60, she had been told by ROSITA, beautician for SUE BRUNO, wife of
ANGELO BRUNO, that the BRUNO family was presently in Florida. ROSITA told
the informant that she had received a card from SUE BRUNO but the informant
was unable to ascertain where the BRUNOs were staying in Plorida or the
‘duration of their stay.

On 6/28/60 PH 514-C advised that he had learned two days previous
from the informant's brother, that ANGELO BRUNO was presently in Florida
and was rumored to be contemplating moving there-for at least the major part
of his time. :

Noting that captioned subject has, since the date of previous
report, spent the majority of his time in Florida, no report is being
submitted by the Philadelphia Division until the completion of investigation
by the Newark and Miami Divisions.

LE wroon (92-2717)
1 - Miami (92-139) (Info)
1 - Newark (92-478) (Info)
2 - Philadelphia (92-444)

oe

Ae LG)

<2 eens

LL7-20

| : x ; : oo a]

DoclId:32560419 Page 4


nN

PH 92-hhh

1) Will ascertain the identity of the cigarette
vending machine business in which ANGELO BRUNO has allegedly
purchased an interest at Miami Beach, Fla., noting that this
business is, according to PH 523-C, in the name of SUE BRUNO,
wife of ANGELO BRUNO. é

2) Will also endeavor to ascertain through
confidential sources or records vertaining to the transfer
of ownership of this business, the identity of the bank at
which ANGELO BRUNO or his wife, SUE BRUNO, have an account,
noting that SUE BRUNO told PH 523-C she wrote a check of $50,000
in purchasing this business.

3) Will contact MM 647=PC, who according to
relet to Philadelphia. 3/29/60, stated that ANGELO BRUNO of
Philadelphia had gone into the cigarette vending machine
business in the Miami area. °

4) Will interview CHARLES I, COSTELLO who
maintains a residence at 1268 North Bayshore “rive, North
Miami, Fla.. considering that ANGELO BRUNO and ANGELO BRUNO's
wife furnished Miami telephone #NA 7-5995, listed to COSTELLO
when obtaining reservations at National Airlines in Miami
4/24/60 for flights from Miami, Fla., to Philadelohia, Pa.,
as is set forth in Miami letter to Philadelphia, 5/6/60.

5) Will, through sources, ascertain if ANGELO
BRUNO has a financial interest in the Montmart (phonetic)
Motel ‘hext to the Eden Roc" as ANGELO BRUNO's wife has stated
that she and her husband have a financial interest in this
motel. Note: The above reference may be to the Monmartre
Hotel. -

NEWARK
One copy of this report is being designated

B

COVER PAGE

‘ oe
\g3 93> ro)

MM

af

DoclId:32560419 Page 5


an . : ra

“oe v, i e

PH 92-Lh)

for Newark due to previous investigation in this matter.
PHILADELPHIA ~
-AT PHILADELPHIA, PA.

1) Will maintain contact with informants associated
with BRUNO to ascertain his activities.

2) Will attemptnto interview BRUNO to obtain
any additional information with emphasis on subject's ventures
in Florida.

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA
PHILADELPHIA i

By letter 3/29/60, the Miami Division stated
that the Miami files reflect that MM 64.7-PC advised that
ANGELO BRUNO of Philadelphia has gone into the cigarette
vending machine business in the Miami area.

PH 523-C on 1/26/60, engaged SUE BRUNO, wife of
ANGELO BRUNO, in conversation, at which time, SUE told the
informant that she had recently written a check in the amount
of $50,000 to purchase control or part interest in a vending
machine business in Miami, Fla. In addition she said that
she and ANGELO BRUNO had a financial interest in the Monmart
(phonetic) Motel "next to the Eden Roc" in Miami but that this
financial interest could not show. SUE BRUNO told the informant
thet she had returned to Philadelphia from Miami the previous
evening, 4/25/60, and had madé a number of trips from Philadelphia
to Miami and, in fact, made two-trips within one week during
the recent past. SUE BRUNO said that ANGELO BRUNO had been
able to obtain most of his $189,000 investment in a gambling
casino in Havana, Cuba, and to get this money out of Cuba.

Regarding the vending machine business in Miami
or Miami Beach, SUE BRUNO told the informant that the check
for $50,000 as well as the business was in SUE BRUNO's name.
SUE BRUNO told the informant that she had met a lot of "big
people" in Miami but informant was unable to learn the identity
of any of these individuals,

- C -

COVER PAGE
BOVINA SAY

DoclId:32560419 Page 6


PH 92-Yh

COSTELLO will be further identified in the
body of this report.

on 4/26/60, PH 523-C was requested to contact
the residence of MICHAEL BRUNO, 810 Snyder Avenue, for
purposes of ascertaining who was present in this home,
considering that a spot check ofsMICHARL BRUNO's residence
during the evening 4/25/60 until 10:30 o.m. 4/26/60,
failed to indicate any unidentified males entering or
leaving MICHAEL BRUNO's residence or any unusual activity.
On 4/26/60, the informant encountered SUE BRUNO at her
son's residence, 810 Snyder Avenue, at which time she
obtained the above mentioned information regarding BRUNO's
investment in a cigarette vending machine business in Miemi
Beach and other financial negotiations or investments by
BRUNO.

On 4/26/60, ASAC DEAN W. EL\SON, Philadelphia,
learned from SAC TEAGUE, Miami, that it was possible that
the above mentioned phone call from Fort Myers, Fla., to
Philadelphia might not have been to JIMMY and could possibly
have been to a JEANIE. It is believed that this was the
person who was called in Philadelphia inasmuch as JEAN BRUNO,
the teenage daughter of ANGELO BRUNO, resides 93) Snyder
Avenue, a short distance from where her brother resides,
810 Snyder Avenue, and would logically be at her brother's
residence if her parents were both in Miami.

PH 269-C on 4/26/60, telephonically contacted
itheMagelo Cheese Company, llth Street and Washington Avenue,
where he usually sees. BRUNO and talked to SALVATORE MAGGIO
who told the informat that he would attempt to locate BRUNO
and would call the informant. In approximately 15 minutes,
SALVATORE MAGGIO called informant and said BRUNO was not in
town and he knew nothing further.

On 4/27/60, MARIO MAGGIO called PH 269-¢C
and said that he had just learned that DAD (referring: to BRUNO)
would be back in Philadelphia late the following day, 1/28/60.

- E - -
COVER ~ PAGE

SodA\Qg49 ”

Docld:32560419 Page 7


PH 92-Lhy

RIZZO emphasized that this information should
not be divulged under any circumstances and was furnished
strictly on a confidential basis. He stated that he
knew from this and other sources that ANGELO BRUNO
definitely had MITCHELL COHEN working for him in
BRUNO's numbers activityo ;

‘on 3/24/60, PH 269-C€ advised SA DALE Mo
HIESTAND that he was well acquainted with MITCHELL
COHEN, Regarding COHEN, whom the informant had an
appointment with that day, the following information
was furnished:

COHEN was best known for being a close associate
of former Philadelphia City Commissioner SAMUEL ROSE,
deceased, He was characterized in this connection as
being a "confidential runner,“ meaning that COHEN was
used to carry confidential messages to people wanting to
contact SAMUEL ROSE in a confidential manner.

COHEN maintains cl liaison and.a friendly
relationship with one MORR TAR, a former Philadelphia
Gounty Detective, who is now employed in the offices of
Philadelphia City Councilman HARRY NORWICK. He is a

7 “confidential ruginer"for STAR at this time.

fhe informant, in fact, was to meet COHEN in
STAR's offices later 3/24/60.

The informant stated that COHEN was definitely
connected with BRUNO at this time and was in the numbers
yacket with BRUNO. The informant said that COHEN, he
believed, was primarily used by BRUNO for COHEN!s con-
nections more’ than for his numbers opew tion which
BRUNO conductse :

It was previously reported that MM 665-PC
on 10/5/59 advised SA ROBERT F, FETZNER, Miami Division,
of observing ANGELO BRUNO in the Luau Restaurant, North
Bay Village, Flae

=D-
COVER PAGE

SWAH TAQ

fa

ee

DoclId:32560419 Page 8


Jb

PH 92-44
E. LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES

PH 269-C, on 2/12/60, advised that he had
purchased Garwood Industries, a concern selling equipment
used by truckers in the removal of trash and refuse, The
informant said: that he was going to ask BRUNO to invest
$20,000 in this venture,

on 3/9/60, the informant stated that this company
is located at Kensington and Sedgely Avenues, Philadelphia
and that BRUNO had not, as yet, invested money in this
ventures : .

on 3/9/60, PH 535-c advised SA ROBERT W, HOLMES
that ANGELO BRUNO recently went to Florida to attend the
funeral of HARRY (LNU)» ye years of age, who had dropped
dead of a heart attack. The informant said that HARRY
owned a motel or hotel, and that BRUNO had money invested
in this venture, but his name did not appear on the records.

HARRY's widow has refused to settle with BRUNO,
and there is nothing that BRUNO can do since he had no
proof of the investment, Informant added that BRUNO
was not in good health, having prostate trouble as well
as trouble "with his insides.”

CONTRACT - CITY OF
PHILADELPHIA
FOR REMOVAL OF TRASH

on 2/18/60, PH 269-C advised SA DALE M, HIESTAND

. that the property which BRUNO and. others were attempting

to purchase in Salem, Ne Jes for disposal of Philadelphia
garbage was condemned by the State of New Jerseys

The informant believed that the State of New
Jersey purchased the property, and in view of this, the
venture to obtain a contract from the City of Philadel-
phia for removal of trash from the city via water to

-Pe-
COVER PAGE

at eB-Assxg

DoclId:32560419 Page 9


PH 92-L4

Salem, No Jog collapsede

. It is to be noted that the informant was frequently
contacted on this matter to furnish advice to BRUNO and
his associates. The informant pointed out that the Maggio
Cheese Company, where he frequently meets BRUNO, is in his
opinion “the headquarters for crime in the Philadelphia and
suburban areas. The informant also noted that there was
someone at the cheese factory on a 2)-hour basise

~ Qe -

COVER PAGE -
> SCANS,

Docld:32560419 Page 10
