# docid-32262642

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/2/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

HSCA

180-10108-10211

RECORD SERIES :

NUMBERED FILES.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 013900

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

HSCA

LEE, IVAN D., FBI.

DATE: 07/21/1964

PAGES:

23

SUBJECTS :

DALLAS POLICE DEPARTMENT.

DALLAS, TX; RACKETEERING AND SUBVERSIVE

ACTIVITIES.

RUBY, JACK; BACKGROUND, RACKETEERING AND

SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITI

ORGANIZED CRIME.

MATTHEWS, RUSSELL.

DOCUMENT TYPE: OTHER TEXTUAL.

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 2

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Handwritten note cards. Box 243. (folder 2 of 3)/

v9.1

DocId: 32262642

1

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Jdentifying.innu

0114)83 - Pete Leonardi, hemny Patriek, bennie Patrick, Josepn Coneet

Durs-

-10-6-13_

SocIal See # 345-14-7017

_POB C4ea5 1519 Califurnia Aue

Lecnard Leuine, "Blnkey

AHended Sheppard Gramon ar Schdo!

Ber

- +aA

1963 re11dence

1921

2820 wert Jarlath, inicago.

74a5 west Belmont, ahicagu..

Sept 15, 1946

p.a= marcred setelo to Lorcainel. ocomar.

sued for dworcein 1966.

didn't get diverced..

a childran

Gp.3 - Comeleted 2th grade education in chicago public schools.& worked as a delivery

man for 15/c0k.

Dp.a -Patrick was recewed at the Indiana Stale Reformatory un.

6-28-33. Sentence 10 years. Imnosed on June dó by marshall

Cousty, Indiana, Circurt Court , Plymouth, Indiana, on conuction

af robbeîg a bantat culver, Indana on

_may 29, 1933.

p-4- Pat Paroled 3-11-10. Sponsoced by E. Szontagh, chicago. He was to

kve@DavekovinnChicaga.and. towork.for A.D.Kane Company, Chicago.

DocId: 32262642

Page 2

---

## Page 3

a Criminal

Oc assocIates

p.16- James Allegretti-according to source, Allegretti is à "syndicate" rep on

the near North side of chicago.

Phal Aldersio - "syndicate" muscleman

-0-17

_morres Saletko a righthand man for Patricks

Richard.m.Block-in 1958-surveillance doclosed Pat-united Block's

apti soveral times nignts a weel..

indicted

william E, Block-on on with therel, Patrick, & Dave taras

yoete

10 Ragen murder

-pel8 Nathan Blumenthal

-p.19 Hyman s Brachy

marshall caifano

p.do

p- a 1

mike Chernoff

Edward D'AQuila.

Ronalde de annstopher.

DocId: 32262642

Page

3

---

## Page 4

9 p. 30

Dave Varas- Associaten

Informant aduled pat, has been n constant telephone contact

with Dove yars from sept. 1957 to may 1959. on march la,

1958, chicago informant aduised that Patrick "was very.

close" to varal, "a chicago houdlum uno had great power

in the underworld on the wert side of Chicago," On 1-18-58,

a different Chicago nformant aduneu that save Haras and

hounard Patrick "were very closely assocated even though

Varas was residing in miami Beach."

Records of Chicago P.D., Checked en 5-7-58, retlected Yara

had been arreed.about as times Frem 193810 1947

"mostly for general panaples, duarderly conduct, and.

→nvestigation""

DocId: 32262642

Page

---

## Page 5

4pja Chicago OC Acturhes

• Dave: Paras and Lenny Patrick controlled the Roosevelt Avenue area

and their headquarters was at rooseuelt and Independence Boulevard.

(adured.by.chag@inturman+an a-as-58).

DocId: 32262642

Page

---

## Page 6

Bookmaking Actruites

p. 32

on 2-a6-58 al Chicago informant adulsed he worked fir pat, as an

operator in "a 50-50 book in 1948 and 1919. The book was operated

in a barber shop at 330 west Roosevelt el payment were miade

+ Pat, at the NeusLawndale restaurant in that neighboned. At

that time, accorcing to the informant, Patrick was in contral of the

New Lawndale Rest. and "there was a fullscale hard card book

being aperated there, " Pat. had the area from kedzle to licero and

tram madison south to approximately 18th street. No one could

open abook or take on any bets unless he hat the Ok of patrick.

At that time patrick's. lientenants were Karas ancBlock..

-p. 33- Patrick made an atempt to move into the area ad at broadway.

Diversey and Belmont, but according to COT la wastun by to RocCo:

Fischetti, Three of patis "muscles" varti Polsti, "Little Sneeze" Friedman,

and one other were killedin the new Laundale Rest. ostensibly for robbing bot

but actually, according to informant, because of their association@Pat.

Informant belleued dispute between Pat, and Fischetti was arbitratedby

Tony Accardo..

DocId: 32262642

Page

---

## Page 7

3

Bookmaking=2

p.33: 0n4-a3-58 records of Chicago Crime Commission in a memo of

8-2a-47 repurt that Part. was the manageret a handbook at 16a5 South

Kedzie Avenue, Also a memo at 11-10-47 report that Pat, was Formerly

employed in a handbook operated.at 3613 west Roosevelt Road and was

_the owner of a tavern, a166 Ogden Avenue. A Hanabook was allegedto

-be operated in the back of this tavern. Also, for years poler games

_were operated at 3164 ogden Avenue @ which Patrick was said to be

associated.. Also in crime (om., a" Tribune" article of may 6, 195a,

conceming-murder of Dauld Zate, who was found shot to death in

the trunk of acar

on 5-5-52. Was reported that zatz operated a

hanabook ana was known as a "syndicate" front for Varas a Patrick,

"the gangis representatiues under the rule of marshall Caifano."

Reportedin.crme.comm.memod_s-ao-55 that the handbook"

operated.at the Black Angus Restaurant, 7127 Worth western Avenue, hac

as its manager Eugene Lutfman who was a "front" fur Pat...

An informant adulsed during nou. Lass that Lutfman was a bodkmaker

for Pat, & Paras.

DocId: 32262642

Page

---

## Page 8

Bookmaking-3

-p. 33:

Informant alsoadvised_that another book.place was located at sal Sleisengers

(phonetic) Furniture store an Roosevelt Road near Human Avenue, Books

belunged te another navidual, but Pat, collects fur this operation.

p.35- On 4-20-59, martin schneider adused that Pat, who reportedly had an interest in

the park row Hotel, 4144 west rouseuelt Road, also had a handbook operating

from one of the rooms of this hotel...

0n4-14-59, informant aclused he had learned Pat, had a bookmaking

establishment on the north.side of west loth street.- at the west side Home

Improvement compant - 3518 west 16th Street.

DocId: 32262642

Page

---

## Page 9

-5-

-Caras -1

p,87- Chicago Come Com. report, 4-26-46, Pat, as reported to be managerof a

-gambling

place

at 3613 west Roosevelt Road and as having only a a5do

interest in the blackjack game inthis place.

On 2-26-58 infurmart aduwed that he believed Pat. stll bad gambling going on at

the new Laundate Rataurant. Patrick admited man interuew on seet, 10, 1948 that

there was a poter game operating at the New Laundale restaurant

wam.DrChicago PDaduredthat as of April 15,1949, Patrick, William Block,

and Dave taras were operating a "Candan pokerganie" at the Lawndale

Restaurant two nighte a week.

p. 38- Crimecomm,memo, 6-22-56, reportec that a gambling joint, at 7018

Northwestern-Ave.in the rear of a restaurant , is a Pat. Enterprise & Pat.

supposechly auns the restaurant. Further nu, indicated a commercial poker

game was held there...

DocId: 32262642

Page 9

---

## Page 10

-4-

vocations

p. 37= Patrick-interviewed on Sept 10,1448 stated he and su brather, Jack

operated.thenew-Lacundale Restaurant at 3714 west Rooseuelt

Road. stated hed his brother have had a part oterest in this

restaurant for duer two years, and they recently bought out

Sid bibby who had previously had the remaining interest d

until recently-had

acted as manager. Preurous to his affiliation

with ths restaurant

Pat. stated he was employed ald houseman

at the Arcade feestaurant located at kedzie & Rooseuelt Road.

p. 45: On June 24, 1957

auntermant aduren Patrick and Naras purchased

the bath house on

North Avenue and placed william Block in charge

of the place. Ine establichment was operated as a bath house apen

to the public, but had pluss quarters fur gambling on the upper

Floors.

p.99

1944= PD - employmentas a bartender -place nut designated

reb 19,1954 -employed as asqlesman.

DocId: 32262642

Page

10

---

## Page 11

->=

miscellaneous Gambling f other legal Actsuites

spy.toct.ing=

p..42-00 12-19-57 informantadused that Pat, had been associated with gambling

actrustes on the west side and was ongaged in short term usury knowna

"6 for 5."% Intormantu polve intelligence adised that Patrick, Jack Pat,

Dave Yares, william Block, maish Baor, & marshall carfano",

, all at whum were

known a chicago hoodlums connected with gambling," hang out at Park

Rous catering company, 4136 W. Roosevelt Road.

p.45-On 2-7-50 informand adused that pat had obtained control of all gambling

in the auth ward. - Primarly in the Fillmure Poluce Pistrict.

p. 55- also indicaten patrack involved in prostituren acturtes.

p. 60101- Invonedun a Supermarket Snakedows ln 1958

_867,650

"Home Improve

DocId: 32262642

Page

11

---

## Page 12

miscellaneous

-Cuba connections

-p. 44

-Records of Chicago Crime comm. amemo of 2-13-53 report "that information

was received that Lechard Patrick, David Yaras, and Joe massei, the later

formerly of Detroit, michigan, had been operating the sans souci gambling

establishment i Havana, cuba."

DocId: 32262642

Page

12

---

## Page 13

- 9-

Policy

p.46- 0n 312-58 informant aduised that Patrick was offlated

I Albert Frabora. According to the infurmant, when Rat the Chicago

mob enterect the policy racket, Pat allegedly parterpated in the kidnapping

as the sones brothers, Negro king pins of the polly racket inthe i9wd's.

p. 47- Chicago crime com. reflect "Terbune" clip" of 119-55, concerning the policy

gambling.racket. which reported that on the west side the "syndicate" had fire

representatives in sam dancana, Sam Battaglia, marshall Caifano, and two

underlings Leunard Patrick and william Block..

Also a memo ot 10-2-50 réporting that anonymou information was receed

that Patrick, Haras, and Block were in control of lottery jars flooching the 35th

Police District..

DocId: 32262642

Page 13

---

## Page 14

10-

National sports

p. 48= Patrick and taras forced John Cannatta, who represented a groupot persons whu

place.large.bets an.toutball-gamedotharsoats@chicaga@ovtrakers.tlau

all of his bets with their office in Chicago, [Decl8, 1958).

p. 49- During Nou, 1955 informant cduwed that Lours Hennick has been taking

baseball bets for Pat. & Dave Haras: under the direct superuision of Jack Patrick

for the past fue years.

DocId: 32262642

Page 14

---

## Page 15

Ф

- 11-

- Singe

p. 52- chicago Crime com records reflect that in a lebler to the police commissioner

dated 3-29-55, Itwas reported that a commercial bingo game wa operated

at 3aya westRooseueltRoadand.was.alleyedly-operated&contralled.by.fat.

1p.53 004-30-59 informant adused that

the bingo operation had been going

string for about tyrs. & is operatec by Lenny. & Jack Patrick..

DocId: 32262642

Page 15

---

## Page 16

-|=-

Shylocking-

p-54- Ön 12-19-57 informantacuued that Pat, has been assedatest was engaged

m shast term wurüf knoun a "6 fors" on Aug 6, 1958. intormant

acuised that about a.or 7 years ago Harry leune was working in chicago

as a "shylock" and coas associated with Lenny Patrick, Jack Patrick,&

Daue taras, Leune started the Reliable Products novelty busined, as a

front fur the shylocking. About 3 uss ago heune left Chicago a Reliable

products. wantbankrupt about b munths after he left. About ayrs

ago" Ruby the mule (possibly Ruby Wolfar) took over shylocking busines

and Solly, a cabaruer, Informant's opinion they are working fur

Jack a Lenny Patriced Dave paral.

DocId: 32262642

Page

16

---

## Page 17

Ф

-13

Suspect in Gangland slayings -1.

-p.55

"It was repotted to the chicago office

in 1946 that Dave Mara

aPat "are repurled to be the 'turpedoes" or the killers fur the

syndicate: Also repurlean 1946 that.

Patrick may have hada.

part in the killing af wille Tarsch and "Zukie the Bookie"

Zuckerman, west Rodseuelt Road gamblers who were killed in

gangland style several years ago by unknotun persuns.

p.56- An article in the 'anicago sun,

" 8-aa-47 reflécted that Lucius Davidson,

a newsbay testified befure the Grandtury on the James Ragon Sr, murder..

that he saw willam Block, a small-time gambler, fire from the back

ota truck the shots which struck Ragen on 6-24-46. Davidson identifica

a picture of Block as the man why hred, the picture of taras as the

man kneeling with another weapon and a picture of Patrick a the

driver of the truck. me articles tates that after the 3 men had been

indicted for murder the other witnesses, changed their testimony and

thecasewardrop.ped..

On April 3, 1947 the indictment against Block, Yaras, & Patrick was quasher

by chief Justice Harold G. ward in the Criminal Court

DocId: 32262642

Page 17

---

## Page 18

-14-

suspect_in_Gang.land.slayings=a.

-p.56 An article in "Chicago American"' newspaper dated 10-18-47.

reflects that white was killed at 35th & Indiana Ave, Chicago, sounatter recanting

hustory that he saw Ragen murdered by Block, Yaras, SPatrick.

p. 5- Records of Chicago PD reflect that on 6-24-46 James m. Ragen,

sc. wasshot.by.unknown.p.orsuns at the corner of 39th & State streets

in Chicago. Ragen was aperatior of the Continental News seruke, a.

racing-news organationin chicagu. 3 witnesses to shooting.

Thomas connelly, former captain of Chicago PD aduleden 12-4-46 that

former

Block was reputed to bear member of the purple Gang of Detroit, michigan

aso ón marchs, 194) , a true bill naming Patrick, Block& Yaras was

returnea.by cook.co.ung.G.J.

0.58- In the 1930'5 Polsky, Gratsh, and zuckle zuckerman were machined gunto death

reporteclly.for.rob.bing-handbooks.outitwagenerally-kn.oun_that Patrick

was.sespunrible que.toafaud@Polskyin.oct.194/Captainconnellyd

Lieutenant Drury, suspended potice of fiers stated that it was alleged

that Patrick, Block, a Karas were responsible for the killing of "Bugsy Seigel"

awetcoastracketeer@reporte.d.connecton/intheChicago.sy.nd/cate

because of the modus operandi used in the shooting of seigel.

DocId: 32262642

Page

18

---

## Page 19

suspectinGo.ng/and.slay..n.gs-3

-0.58

On Sept 10,1948, Patrick was interulewed. He said he redea to at at ya48

west congress street,.chicaga. Re- gangland killings of Norton Polsky,

"Litle Sneeze" Friedman and Harry " The Horse" Kratish,

Pat. stated that, in his opinin, all 3 had been killed cos

he heard, they were engaged in rubbereaf handbooks. &

gambling-hone. He sunsidered himself a "close persanal

Friend" of ofhere individuals.

054" Darly News" article dated 1-5-53 conceming slaying of mitten

Glickman whose.body.wastouncian 1-14-53

stated BiD were

seekiny Pat. for questing concerning the slaving

on 1/1955

informant adused that Pat. & Paral were hired

gunmen & killers for Chicago underworld.

DocId: 32262642

Page

19

---

## Page 20

-16-

Legitimate Enterprisess

p:60= According to informant (11-a1-58) Patrick held an interest in the

Big Bear Supermarket, 3854 W. Rouseuelt Road.

Howeuer, investigaten did not dusclose aninterest pp. 6.3-605

p-arving quimad.ftes. or aru sales Company aduled that Pat ener

stook holder in the co. a is abu employedthere. During Aug, 195)

Pat, asked him furajob & war hired. Kaufman described Patrick's

positun as performing a "watch service" in which Patrick's identity

15 anonymous so that he can check on employees in a 20

branchstures.n chicago duunity. Pat. wai salariedat @ 150/k

.. Pat, calls in his reports by prene

p.76

Douglas Park Hotel an 7-17-58 hours Hennickaduwed that he owned

the

" together@Harnes Turner.

Jack Patrck was

manager of the hotel & Leonard patrick wa employed as night manager.

Hennick war evasive when asked fur into concerning Pat.'s employment.

aP.78.0n 7-12-60, informantaduledthat pat & Tack

cantinuedto be connected

the Hotel, Hotel stll fronted by Lours Hennick ..

DocId: 32262642

Page

20

---

## Page 21

-17-

Legitimate Enterprises

0.18- Informant udussed en 3-19-57 that Pat, & Yaras had baught a Russias

bathat worthlAue.aDaman st.

-0.80 - Reliable Products - On July 10,1958 recurds relllect that

•Reliable Produels

company was listed to Jack Pat.au af 1-a5-55.

-(33as

Roosevelt Road)...

company started on

7-1-52 by Harry Levine.

p-83 an Augas, 1959 informant aduled that he had beard Pat had an intened!

in severa, North side restaurants, one of which was the Black Angu Rest.

PSy on 3-17-55 informant aduned that Pat. & Taras had an Interest in the

Susco Leasing company at mami Boach & that Lenny tara (Dave'ssun)

operated the co.

Really the scesco Car Reptal Susten Miami police

sala Karats son, eurald, operated, the co. & Never heard of Lenny Patrick.

p.95

henny Pati was employec by Clus Specialty, Inc. As a sajariecree lance

advertising field.

DocId: 32262642

Page

21

---

## Page 22

Assoclate(@ummon) @euby

p.100

On Feb al, 1958 repared that a meeting was held at

the Trademinas Pest.in Chicagu, End Pat was presen. So was

Irwin_werner-Purposeat meeting.not known.

2p. 49- on march 11, 1965 informant acluwed ene uk ago Patrick,.

Oobre Fraborta, a Phil Alderisa, met @ a burdsman, "Struck"

working.sur Irv werner.

No seasen for meetrog «nuan..

- t.11019

DocId: 32262642

Page

22

---

## Page 23

- 19-

Bookmaking

pia- " Informant adursed un 3-5-64 that Lou-Henneck operater out

of the lp Hat Innd runs all of the" books" fur Patrick..

Reported intou 19637447-

@p. 2- Patrick was a partneros Rocco Potenza in bookmaking on the

northside of Chicagu.

DocId: 32262642

Page

23

---

## Page 24

-20-

Businesses

p.a- "Inturmant aduised an 3-5-64 that Hy "led" Larner who was formerly

a lieutenant for Eddie vogel al ii nuw a lieulenant fur GusAlex ouns

venocoa music company d a partner is pat..

o.4- max Netler runs the gambling sard roum at 948 Eastwoud fur Pat

Repurtea.on YAY-64 that Pat & lty Larner were aHemoting tu purchaue.

the citymusic com.pan.y..

DocId: 32262642

Page 24

---

## Page 25

=31-

-Connectuna

_Rallacamina.ts.

Informantadvised that Dave Yares brother formerly was

a boss of the caminal organization in Dallas, Texas.

DocId: 32262642

Page 25

---

## Page 26

-21÷

Yarasowns.an.interestinAlIndustrialUnstorm.com.pany..

• Patrickis a patner of Rucco Polenzu, t 1n 000

DocId: 32262642

Paue

26

---

## Page 27

meenngs@Oc.in.san.Francisco

p.3 Informant aduised in nou 1963 that in seat, 1963 there was a

meeting at the mark Hopkins Hotel in san Frandso and present were

Dave taras, his sun Runald, leungra Patrick, Lous Tom Dragna, a

Nicolo Licata. Dragnas a La cosa Nostra member & Licata is as

underboss of the cosa nostra in the l.A. area. Several weeks later

the same group met agan el present was Ernest Debs, a 1.A. county

superviser who is a close friend of calif. Gow. Pat Brown & allegedly

a pay off man for big-people

DocId: 32262642

Page 27

---

## Page 28

enone calls

pila "In August & Sept. 1963 Telephone calls were made frum nesidence

of Pat. to SHa-1341 - Cunsumers company, Druissenof Volcan Materials,

Elgin, Illinois # 726-2491, Joliet, Ill - Joliet P. D.

& 726-2491 Royal Oak, mich, - Samuel Schumer.

DocId: 32262642

Page

28

---

## Page 29

-24-

_Oc-connections = 1963

pa Informant aduled on Aug a, 1963 "that he has learned that

henard patack has been moving well towards the top of the

Chicago arminal organizaton and might be a replacement fur

Gus Alex, who appears to be working for power becawe of the

cuntacts he ba made without aduising other members at

the erganization."

9 p.d-Informant adused on 3-26-63 that un 3-3-63, Lenny Pas Tack Pat, Ity

Godfrey, Fifke Corngold, and Joe Aiuppa were present at the huxur

Baths, worth Avenue & Damen

Street, Further aduided that this

establishmentis wed.in frequent occauans as a meeting plate.

fur known Chicago syndica

members.

DocId: 32262642

Page

29

---

## Page 30

2,5-

1963 Actournes

p.?- 00 April 2, 1963 Chicago PD raiced New Lawndale rest. The wire room

was.reportedly under control.of pat.

Following people arrested: Roy Love, Eugene Lufman, Burt Arias,

Joseph Libby, Sam Kohen, Sam Nudell, George Weinberg,

Bernard etinban, max Weinzer, max menus, FrankS. 5l0,

Tacon s. Keer, sam Lieberman. 3 telephones wed - KE3-0714,

NE 8-9883, N£8-2628.

pila Informant adusedon 320-63 that lennie Patrick i no lunger

in contrel of the Elmore District of Chicago

Informant adulsed.on 5-10.63 that he had recently learned.

that the four Duces Lounge, dand wert Deum Auenue,

is Lennie Patrick's "place."

(Op. 6-0n. Feba), 1963- OC division, Chicago PD adused he had receivee no that

-a nurse room continues to uperate at new tandarelestaurant. It i

rumorea.Pat..runstheloperation.but.never.been able to prove a conneetion.

DocId: 32262642

Page

30

---

## Page 31

12 p.p

Jllegal Actourtes- 1970

occonnectz.cos.

Patrick.describedascontrollinggambling

en Doug:las Park DistrIct & northside ef

Chicago untl late 1920, when his book-

making-opera.benswere.closed.down

beca.u...cof

new reclaral gamblung legislane.

[p. 32)

DocId: 32262642

Page

31

---

## Page 32

la-p.6

Bookmaking

27

=.

Informant advised on 4-2-ba thatone

Rest. Source adulted thi aperation

13 controlled tor 0.c. by Lennie Patrick

ana pave yara..

DocId: 32262642

Page

32

---

## Page 33

Alderman Benjamin howis slaying

-"On April, 19604 informant acursed Pat.

8 Yaras control the ward in which

newis was slain. Lewis betre slaying,

was.not.cooperating@cr.m.n.al

element.nchIcagu.r

DocId: 32262642

Page

33

---

## Page 34

p. 39

1963 Jll egal fet'

oct 30,31, 1963

Informant statea the 3 chiet

sulce man in chiago area are

Fiore Buccieri, Jimmy Allegrethi and

Leone Patrice..

DocId: 32262642

Page

34

---

## Page 35

p.48

Oct 14,1963

Informant aduked that Ralph Detente,

mike Delente, and Junn Reda had

been doing work fur Patrickand

Willie Dadd and as killers furthe

"outfrt."

DocId: 32262642

Page

35

---

## Page 36

Bookmaking

mar Nettler has been alleged to 000k

national sports and operates a card roomi

at 943 Eastwood Avenue, Chicago, which

operation is alleged to be under the cantrol

at chicago hoodlum, Leony patrict.

DocId: 32262642

Page

36

---

## Page 37

p.9

oc-connesociate siancana

Dec a2, 1961- informant aduised patrick

was in contact with sam Grancana

on 12/a1/01. Patrick related to Grancana

That he is to receive $10,000 from sume.

unnamed ventue and he was

bemoaning the fact that he should

be getting $30,000

for the venture.

DocId: 32262642

Page

37

---

## Page 38

Oc connections

on 1-18-60 informant advised Patrick

spoke briefly on this date @Franks

Ferrare, Murray Humphreys, buth chicago

top. hoodlms and the Godfrey at Celano's..

DocId: 32262642

Page

38

---

## Page 39

Dp6

Residences

On1a-20-57 informant's recunds reflect

a charge af address er Pat. on 12-28-54

from 1248 Cungress nu 2800 w. Jarlath

st. Chicago.

p.8

1079

1942-

4144 West lath Street

1942-1946 - 3302 Douglas Boulevard

1948-1954- 4248 West Congress

1954=

4036 West Glad ys Aue.

DocId: 32262642

Page

39

---

## Page 40

Criminal recura- 930's

On Feb a2, 1934, Patrick was received

at Indiana stale Penitentary.

Invertigated for murder 2/a6/$46

Noleprossed on 4/3/47.

Co-deferdent's in sank robbery (1933) were

Jack Paltick, Edward murphy, Town Gray,

and Juhn Dauisis,

DocId: 32262642

Page

40

---

## Page 41

connechon @ luby

Statedin Oc * Ruby& Paturbrought

up togetber in Chicago askies: but I

hauen't seen him for years"

06 - 4/14/28 0072018.1

port

"Ruby was a nice guy with kids. He

waintconnected.with.anybody.J.neon

I dun't knows 'couse I haven't seen sin

in years but he was not a 'wise guy; if you know

whats mean." It g.

DocId: 32262642

Page

41

---

## Page 42

Oriminal recurd (1970's)

patrick is presently serving a

Yyr sentence fur contempt ofcourt

at FCI, Leningten, Kentucky. Served 18

munths....

oc contact @Patrick 7a01

4/14/78

д.'.

DocId: 32262642

Page

42

---

## Page 43

1963 CHRONOLOGY - LEONARDPATRICK

DocId: 32262642

Page

43

---

## Page 44

Jan 1, 1963

Exoptay ment

LeonaraPatrick.em.ploteasy

Herman sales company as a premium

salesman suntacting various-buoness

housesin.thechleaggarca_that.grue

various types at premums, (FBI Report,

Chicago, 1/17/63, File no. 92 - 3189-48, p.2.)

DocId: 32262642

Page

44

---

## Page 45

January 3,1963

Astate, Informant adulsea Patrick

continuesto.contralgambling.and

"junce" aperatiuns in the hawndale.

district of chicago.

(FBI Report, Chicago, 718/2L, File no.

92-3189-83, p. 3}

DocId: 32262642

Page

45

---

## Page 46

Feb 18, 1963

Inturmantstated he nad learned

trom an associate that Patrick is

presently.connected with.A.

Industrial uniterm company.

Yaras is regarded as Patrick's boss.

(FBI Report, Chicago, 7/8/21, File no.

92-3189-83, p. 58

DocId: 32262642

Page

46

---

## Page 47

February 22,19.63

_Chicago P.D. aduised they had necewed

information that a horse roam continues.

to aperate at " New Lawndale Restaurant.

It is rumored that Patrick runs the

operation. (PBI Report, Chicago, 3/19/63,

File no. 92-3189-49, p. b).

DocId: 32262642

Page

47

---

## Page 48

march 3, 19.6.3

EGI informant aduised Lenny Patrick,

Jack Patrick, dy Godtrey, Fitke Corngold,.

and Jue Aiuppa were present at the

Luxor Baths in Chicago. FBI Repart,

Chicago, 5/28/6.3, Fle no. 92-3189-50, p.2

A.r-

DocId: 32262642

Page

48

---

## Page 49

1s23 November 7, 1963

FeT Sourse aduised en that Rocky Potenza.

and Patrick control the "north side book"

in chicago. (PBI Report, Chicago, 7/8/71,

File no. 97-3189-83, A 2)

4'-

DocId: 32262642

Page

49

---

## Page 50

march 20, 1963

FBJ Informant aduised that Leong Patrick.

is no longer in control of the Filmore

Distrat of Chicago (FBI Report, Chicago,

5/28/63, File no. 92-3189-50, p. 12)

DocId: 32262642

Page

50

---

## Page 51

April 2, 1963

Chicago police raided the New.

Laundale Restaurant which was

reportedly under the-control_of Lenny Patrick.

(FBI Report, Chicago,

5/28/63, File no.

9.2-3189-50; p. 7)

DocId: 32262642

Page

51

---

## Page 52

may 10, 19.63

FBI informant. adursed that he

back recently lanned that the four

Duces Lounge, 2222 west Devon Avenue,

Chicago, 1s Lenny Patrick's "place.

(FBI Repart, Chicago, 5/28/63, File no.

92-3189-50 p. 12)

DocId: 32262642

Page

52

---

## Page 53

summer or fall of 19.63

Ruby contacted Lenny Patruck..

, p. 460;

Page 145g; wc Testimony of Hyman

Rubenstein, 6/5/64,0115, p. 28

DocId: 32262642

Page

53

---

## Page 54

У р.07

June 3,1963

Hy.Godfrey, Fifke Cornguld, Lennie Patrick,

JackPatrick, El Jue Aruppabsernach

at luxur Bath. [FBI Report, chicagu,.

7/8/21, File no. 92-3189-83, p. 67)

DocId: 32262642

Page

54

---

## Page 55

August 9, 19.6.3

An FBI informant aduised "that he had.

learned that Leunerd Patrick has been moving.

well towards the top of the chicago criminal

organization and might be a replacement ter

Ous Alexp the appears to be wacking te

passer (FBI Report, Chicago, 9/24/63, File no,

92 - 3189-52, p. 2)

DocId: 32262642

Page

55

---

## Page 56

August and September, 19.63

Telephune calls were made from tee

Patrick's residence to SHa-1341-Cunsumers.

company, Divisichef Volcan materials,

Ergin, Illinois and 7a6-a491 Joliet, Il

(Joliet P.D) and 7a6-ayai (samuel

Schumer) Royal Oak, michigao.

(EBIreport, 3/18/64, File no. 92-3189-54,

p.. la)

DocId: 32262642

Page 56

---

## Page 57

September 20, 1963

"max. Nettler has been alleged to

book national sparts and aperates

acard.coom.at 948Eastwo.o.d

Avenue,Chicago, which-@peration

13 alleged to under the contral of

Lenny Patack, {EsI Report, Chicago,

9/20103, File no.

165-969-6

DocId: 32262642

Page 57

---

## Page 58

_September a4, 1963.

• ina Sti Chicago Sun-Times Clipping

of this date lenny patrice was listed

by the police as a "hit" man fur the

-syndicate.(chicago crime cummission

DocId: 32262642

Page 58

---

## Page 59

Sept 24, 1963

Chloago

In a"Sun-Times clip of this date it was

listed by the

reported

Lenny patrick was

police as a "hit" man for the syndicate.

DocId: 32262642

Page 59

---

## Page 60

September, 1963

informant aduised there was a meeting

at the mack Hopkins Hotel in san Francisco

eed at which Dave Yaras, his son Ronzld,.

heanara Patrick, Louis Tom Dragna and

Nicola bicata were present. Several weeks

laterthesame.group.met_again.and.prege.ot

to Ernest Debs, a hiA. County superuiser,

was also present. (BI Report, Chicago,

3/18/64, a Fit. no. 92=3189-54, p.3)

A.rw

--.

DocId: 32262642

Page 60

---

## Page 61

October 30_831, 1963

""fes informant aduised that the three

chet "jule" men in the chicago area

are Fiore Buccieri, James Allegretti, and

Lecmard PatrIck.

(p. 39)

DocId: 32262642

Page 61

---

## Page 62

October 14, 1963

FBI informant

stated that

Ralph. Detente, Mike Derente, and John.

Reda had been doing work fur fatrick

and willie paddano. source said they.

were. "Killers fur the 'outfu!" (FBIreport,

July 8, 1981, "Leónard Patrick, aka," p9483

DocId: 32262642

Page 62

---

## Page 63

1963 Chronology - B.D. Mathews

DocId: 32262642

Page 63

---

## Page 64

January 2, 19.63

Detective M.L. Hart, Dallas police Dept,

aduised he had information that several

gamblers.tnclud.ingR.D.matthews,

_were-spendingconsiderable-time.at the

Lem..Used_carLot at Live Oak and

Hall Streets in Dallas, (FBI BeperAirtel,

Psom Dallas, 1/2/63, File. no. 62-9-12-390)

-------

DocId: 32262642

Page 64

---

## Page 65

-February. 21-24,1963

matthous carobserued.at some

cock fights near Biloki, mississippi.

(EBI Memurandum, Dallas, 4/8/63, File ne.

166-636-1, pl

DocId: 32262642

Page 65

---

## Page 66

Mid-march 1963

Dallas PaIstated_matthews had.wasin

Hot Springs, Arkansas. (EBI memorandum.

Dallas, 4/8/63, File A0. 166-6367, p. 1)

DocId: 32262642

Page 66

---

## Page 67

march 15, 1963

Information. bet recervedby FBI that

a-person_fitting the description.af R.D. martheus

wE hadbeenin Hot Springs Arkansas and

In contact with George Fuque. fF BI

memorandums

Dallas, 1/8/63, File no.

166-636-1, p.1

DocId: 32262642

Pade 67

---

## Page 68

march 16, 19-6-3

miss Peggy matthews and RD matthews

rented Apt # 210 at Paragon Apts,

4218 Reiger Street..

(FBI Report, Dallas, 1427/63, File no.

106-036-5, p. 2)

DocId: 32262612,

Page

68

---

## Page 69

April 3, 1963

Dallas RCI stated mattheus had

just left Dallas enroute to

Hot springs,Arkansas, ura

oklahoma city.. (FBI memuranaum,

Dallas, 4/8/63, File. no.166-636-1 p.l

DocId: 32262642,

Page

69

---

## Page 70

Aprel 3, 1963

Geurge Fredenck-Rechenberg was.

interuewedby_the EB I and

furnished pertinent information

concerning matthews which was used

as a basis fr opening a new ITAR -

Bambling.case_concera.ing.matthew.s.

(PRI Report, Dallas, 1/9/63, File no.

69-9-12 - 411-p?

DocId: 32262642,

Page

70

---

## Page 71

April 7, 1963

FBI informant stated that matthers

had returned to dallas and residing with

his daughter, peggy Ana matthews.

(FBI Report, Dallas, 7/18/63, File no

166-636-2, 88 Cover page D).

DocId: 32262642.

Page

71

---

## Page 72

may 3, 196.3

Dallas Criminal Intelligence, Dallas PD,

adulsed_that information_had_been develaped

that matthews had recently contacted

George Box, shreveport, Louisiana, concerning

a possible

"twanday score. He had also

contacted JimBlack.well of Laurel,mississ. ppl.

(FBI Report, Dallas, 7/18/63, File no.

166-636-2, Couer Page D

R.DRS..a.1

DocId: 32262642.

Page

72

---

## Page 73

may 12, 19.63

57 Dallas pu. arrested RD. Mattheus

and charged with county vagrancy.and

with nuestigation of book making.

(FBI Report, 9 Dallas, 9/13/63, Pile no.

62-9-12.448, p 4)

DocId: 32262642,

Page

73

---

## Page 74

may ai, 1963

Police Intelligence adulsed theat

matthews waspresently.working at

the Redman Club in Dallas. FBI Report,

Dallas, 7/18/63, File no. 166-636-2, p.5).

DocId: 32262642,

Page

74

---

## Page 75

may. 31, 1963

Police Intelligence adunea that

they had received information that Hot springs.

Arkansas gamblers, Jack Gunter and

Hubert Dane Harris were in dallas on

5/30/63, and were ungently attempting to

contact the subject, (FBI Report, File no.

Dallas, Et 7/18/63, File no. 166-636-2,

cover Page E).

DocId: 32262642_

Pade 75

---

## Page 76

JEne 24, 196%

Report 99-45-87-8 Dallas 7/21/64

by IvaD D. lee

Includes R. D's Phone call fram

April 29, 1964-mayao, 1964.

@Repoc+-92-4587-7-5/20/64 Dallas by

Ivan Lee- Phone calls from 1/5.164,

to 4/5/64.

3. Repurt, Dallas, 7118/63, File no 1b6636-2,

TOILCaULS - for Peggy Ano=

trom 12/as/ 63_to

2/23/63.

A..-

DocId: 32262642,

Page

76

---

## Page 77

-July-0, 19.63

mathew's'

1962 oldsmobile was

obserued parked near the apt.

house located at 4817 Reiger Street,

Dallas,

Ar-

DocId: 32262642.

Page

77

---

## Page 78

July 18, 196.3

FBI report of this date states

matthews was_in contact with.sammy

Paxtun (Salvatore Amarena...

DocId: 32262642,

Page

78

---

## Page 79

september 9, 1963

FBI repart of this date states that

investigation has ascertained that the

Redman-club is used by its members and proprietors

for gambling achuities. The manager is R. Di

matthews. (FET Report, 9/9/63, File no. 62-9-12-44.))

--.---..

DocId: 32262642_

Page

79

---

## Page 80

September 13,1963

ReBaBa In an FBI report of

thisdate, mathews is included among

those considered to be the higher

echelon in Dallas book making.

(FBI. Report, 9/13/63, "Crime conditions

in the Dallas Dission, pa)

DocId: 32262642.

Page

80

---

## Page 81

September 2o, 19.6.3

matthews continues to be employed.

at the Redmas Club in Dallas.(FBI

Report, Dallas, 9/20/63, File no. 166-636-3,

p. 1..

DocId: 32262642,

Page

81

---

## Page 82

Octobar 3, 1963

13 minute

Ea Ruby made a teleshone call

to

ElizabethAnn_matthews,PR_RD_matthews.

former wite &

DocId: 32262642,

Page

82

---

## Page 83

Аротох.

I October a6 1963.

B.D..matthews and daughter moved

from

4713 Reiger Street tu

2207 Greenbrier Street, Irving, Texas.

(FBI Report, Dallas, 11/27/63, File no.

166-636-5, p.2.

---------------

DocId: 32262612,

Page

83

---

## Page 84

November 6, 1963

Dallas Police aduised that matthews

is druinga 1964 white over blue

dblsmobile bearing 1963 Teras license.

RA6568. (FBIReport, DallaS, 11/27/63,

File no 166-636-5, p.2

DocId: 32262642,

Page

84

---

## Page 85

November 22,196.3

FBI report of this date lists.

matthews addsess as 2207 Green briar St.,

Irving, Texas, and states he was thought

todepartowner.of the Redman_club.

DocId: 32262642,

Page

85

---

