# docid-32290944-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10206-10220

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-607

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/14/1962

3

LST, ASSOC, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

44

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

...i

Transmit the following in

Via

Date:

9/14/62

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

SAC,

MIAMI (92-88) (P)

RE:

SANTO

TRAFFICANTE, JRe aka.

AR

(TAMPA-00)

WEEKLY AIRTEL SUMMARY

CHARLES CUCCIA, PCI, advised on 9/10/62 that the

subject and his wife departed

Miami for Tampa on 9/8/62.

MM 834-0* advised on 9/14/62 that he had noticed

no activity at the subject's residence, 523 N. E. Tist St.,

Miami, for about 1 week.

MM 768-C advised on 8/31/62 that during the past

year he has been acquainted with LARRY DE JOSEPH. He said

DE JOSEPH claims to have been an employee of SANTO TRAFFI-

CANTE in the Sans Souci Hotel in Havana, prior to the Castro

+.

Revolution.

DE JOSEPH has on a number of occasions stated

he is a good friend of TRAFFICANTE and is in touch with him

occasionally.

The informant, who had been previously advised™

of the Bureau's interest in TRAFFICANTE, advised that, in

order to effect a meeting with TRAFFICANTE, he proposed to

DE JOSEPH that TRAFFICANTE provide the financial backing

for a gambling ship to be operated off the Fla. Keys.

The en

Informant would make all the necessary arrangements and would

ask a percentage commission for his planning and arranging

for a boat.

Bureau

2

. (AM)

Tampa (92-1)(AM)

2-

Miami

JLM: rmd

(7)

Let to MM

9-19602

PRS: NuT REG: 63

92-2781-607

C. • Wick

Approved: SEP

Special Agent in Charge

Son jEX-100

er

---

## Page 3

MM 92-88

As a result of this proposal, DE JOSEPH arranged a

meeting between the informant and TRAFFICANTE. The informant,

DE JOSEPH, and IRVING FEINBURG, an acquaintance of the informant

who is connected with Escott construction Co., Miami Beach,

went to sonny's Italian Restaurant, 247 23rd St., Miami

Beach, on the night of 8/30/62..

According to the informant, FEINBURG went only at

the informant's invitation and did not even know who TRAFFI-

CANTE WaS. They were met at Sonny's Restaurant by TRAFFICANTE,

LOU BRADY, and JUDITH SALVAT, who appeared to be the girlfrien

of TRAFFICANTE.

At this meeting the proposed setting up of the

gambling ship to be operated off the Fla. Keys was discussed

by the informant, TRAFFICANTE, and BRADY. TRAFFICANTE agreed

to consider arranging financing for the gambling ship and in-

structed the informant to give him more specific details,

particularly as to arrangements that could be made for securing

a suitable ship.

They also discussed the possibility of con-

structing a hotel in Martinique, and Escott entered into this

discussion.

TRAFFICANTE, however, was not agreeable to this

suggestion.

According to the informant BRADY did the majority.

of the talking for TRAFFICANTE and gave the impression that

he was trying to impress TRAFFICANTE in the way he talked and

discussed the matter with the informant.

The informant expects future meetings between himself

and TRAFFICANTE, or one of his representatives, regarding this

matter.

+.

On 9/4/62, the informant advised that he has

with LEWIS FRAZIER, owner of the motor vessel

"Fleures" to tuated

this vessel

to buy

and have It converted into a gambling ship. The

ship is 180' in length and would be capable of handling about

, 100 gambling passengers.

It now flies the Panamanian flag.

The

price of the ship would be $35,000 and would cost $65,000 to

Informant said this had

relay this on to his "associates."

assocIa and be JOSEPH told hiu he would

-2-

---

## Page 4

MM 92-88

Inasmuch as the above information is known only to

a very few individuals, and due to the closeness of the in-

formant to the situation, it is recommended this information

be reported only in the Administrative section.

SANTIAGO REY, PCI, advised SA C. GRAHAM HURST on

9/5/62 that MARTIN FOX, who was an associate of TRAFFICANTE,

has been very 111 and in the hospital at Boston, Mass.

REY advised he would again contact MARTIN FOX

regarding TRAFFICANTE when FOX returns to Miami.

-3-

---

