AGENCY INFORMATION

‘

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10283-10329
RECORD_SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 74-1869-227

ORIGINATOR:
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:
SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL
CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW_DATE:
STATUS

COMMENTS:

DocId:32303317 Page 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

FBI
HUSTEDT. ALBERT A.
DIRECTOR. FBI

04/05/1962
2
BBA, ASSOC, JHO, B/F INT, STATE CAB CO.

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

: NEW
ion essinied CLASSIFICATION:
05/09/1998 UPDATE, DATE:

Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (4)


«3 ae “ wty
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
REPORTING OFFICE OPRGzOF ORIGIN Dare INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
LOS ANGELES WFO 4/5/62 3/12 - 4/4/62
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY TYPED BY
é ALBERT A, HUST: A) BLB
reir e eableon sang ‘CHARACTER OF CASE

fr B13 th lo

“PERJURY

REFEREVCES: Report of SAA ALBERT A, HUSTEDT 3/15/62 at Los at
: Angeles;
Detroit airtel to Bureau 3/15/62;
Bureau airtel to Memphis 3/15/62; :
Bureau airtel to Detroit 3/15/62:
Bureau airtel to Indianapolis 3/20/62;
San Francisco teletype to Bureau 3/26/62;

f Los Angeles teletypes to Bureau 3/28, 29, 30;
ta 4/2, 3/62.
Ax

fet .
At

t
No references are made tq DONALD E. WEBER as
esident of Sacramento, California, due to WEBER's im
Poa to protect his second identity and his desire to 5
géturn to Sacramento under this second identity at the
conclusion of any trial and/or hearing in this matter. i‘
A OBSTEIN (WEBER) has made this request becasue he fears for
his life as a result of any testimony given by him in this.
a e u

- Bureau (74-1869)
- USA, Los Angeles (Attn: |
AUSA THOMAS R, SHERIDAN)
Chicago (riaa3} ed

_ Detroit (74-119){Info
“Indianapolis (74+56) (Info)

WFO (74-21) eee a Ww
Los Angeles (74-187)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

NYRR H
Pre

Kaeser ZAG Criminal Divistony i

Request Recd. fos n Walter Sheridan —|

Date Fwd. |p Jere Regn 2599

tow Fwa. | O- 6

7 ae ae Khe Mattes (lock
LEB fo 3 MPRA W963 avea/re pps os

DocId:32303317 Page 2

7 11,15 20

