# docid-32301817

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/19/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10279-10152

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR.72-1511-51

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

STOKES, LINCOLN J.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 06/07/1963

PAGES: 332

SUBJECTS :

APR, MURDER, GLOCKNER, WALTER HERMAN,

STATEMENTS, DESCR OF ASSAILANTS, AUTOMOBILE,

INTV, POTENTIAL WITNESS, REL, FRIENDS, ASSOC,

CO-WORKERS, PERSONAL BKG, CRIMINAL BKG, LOCAL

560, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC A/T, RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE IA

v9.1

DocId:32301817

Page

1

---

## Page 2

14, 1963

TO:

SACS,

FROX:

DIRK

REVARS

(72-58)

YORK

REG-

5{73-164)

(72-1517) - 51

UNKNOWN SUBJLIONS

(2)

WALTAR HERMAN GLOCKNER,

ARA. VICHIE (DECEASED)

OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE

(00: 1K)

Tolson

3elmont

lohi

jasper

¿allahan

'onrad

eLoach

vans

Ile

osen

Ilivan

tel

Rerop of SA Lincoln 1. Stokes dated 6/7/63 at Newarks.

Cover pages & and l of perep attribute information to

NB1918-C.

This is an incorrect symbol nunver, it being noted

NE1918 is a discontinued security intormant.

Newark advise Sureau

and other offices correct symbol number so appropsiate changes can

be made in all copies of rerep.

Tor

Newart's future guidance, administrative infornation

such as that included in paragraphs four and live on page tvo of

cerep should not be reported in the investigative section of a

report.

Administrative date should be set out on the cover pages

which are not disseminated outside the Bureau.

Since the following persons, who reportedly talked with

Glociner after he was shot, would be potential witnesses in any

trial which may ensue with respect to any pertinent statemonts that

they

heard Glockner make ,r0-302's should be prepared and be included

in Newark's next report setting out information furnished by them

relative to statements made by Glockner.

MAILED 20

Captaln Patrick Ricciardi, Moboken Police Departnent

Sgt. Russell Sweeten, Hoboken Police Department

JUN 1 4 1963

Patrolman Robert McDonough, Hoboken Police Department

COMM-FBI

Detective Frank Perrante, Hoboken Police Departnent

Patrolnan Alapacca, Hoboken Police Departuent

Patrolman Frank Painisano, Hoboken Police Department

Captain Edward Sheehy, Hoboker

Police Department

NOTE:

Information attributed to the FBI

EFK: ncb

Laboratory

• herein was furnished to SA

18) 2141

E. F. Kieffer by SA Cortlandt Cunningham,

FBI Laboratory, on 6/14/63.

HE JUL MAIL ROLL 6O

TELETYPE UNIT I

DocId:32301817

Page 2

---

## Page 3

BIRTEE TO NE,

NY

RE:

UNSUAS (2)

WALTER HERMAN GLOCKNER, ARA. - VICTIM (Deceased)

Stenographer

George HILlIard, Hudson County

ProsecutoI's ottice

Set =

John Murphy,

Hoboken Police Department

Detective Stancy

• Waleral, Mudson County Prosecutor'e 01fice

Sgt.

Sebastian Lipane, Hoboken Police Dopartrent

Sgt, Anthony Finaldi,

Hoboken Police Departnent

Student Nurse: Sarah O'Grady, St. Mary"s Hospital

(It is noted certain intornation attributed to

her

on page 7 of forep was not included on the ID 203,

Bage.

133

of rarep)

It is not clear fron rerep whether the nan who reportedly

told Harold ritzsions on the porning of 5/24/63 that he had the

Ilconse number of the automobile which sped from the scene of the

shooting Is Frank Finnerle or whether there any he another witness

who bas not yet been located.

Necessary lavestigation to clarity

this point should

I be conducted.

It is noted further that rerep does not indicate that

during intervieus some persone uhe may be suspects in this case

nore advised of their rights at the outset of the intervlew.

Newarks

should insure that in all intervievs conducted in the future with

possible suspects these individuals are advised of their rights

at the beginning of each interview.

On the basis of infomation set out in serep and in the

report 0L

sA Bussel I. Sullavan dated

6/7/63 at New Yorks,

it is

suggested that the

following lines of lavestigation, in addition to

the other investigation which is now inder way, be pursued to a

proper conclusion.

New York rCl John Strong advised that Ton Kenny, "Bull" Benny

friends ofthonas J. Reynolds, ase strong-arD sen

and rory" palerts oppears that the only inyastigation which

and carry guns..

has been conducted is an interview with Thonas lenny set out on

page 216 of terep.

According to this individual, "Borsy" Daley

died several,

, years ago.

developed nor was

any investigation conducted concerning

#ondl" Kenny.

It is suggested

that inquiries be made in an estort to verify the death of "Forky"

located and intervieved;

that staterents be obtained fron hin and Thomas lenny as to their where-,

abouts during the pertinent period and that investigation be conducted

to verily or refute the alibis that they furnish.

Efforts should be

made to deternine further whether these individuals have been

Known to

carry guns. I so, the guns should be located and

considered

- 2-

DocId: 32301817

Page

---

## Page 4

AIRTEL TO NG, NY

RE:

UNSUBS.

(2)

WALTER HERMAN GLOCKNER, ARA. - VICTIM (DICEASED)

possible suspect weapons in connection with the shooting of

Glockner.

Similar investigation should be conducted with respect to

Richie barrett and Tonny cars,

former employees of the Quinn Freight

bines who, according to Joseph

Mitchell smith, are closely associated

with Reynolds.

Smith also said

that Barrect usually carries a

pistol.

#rforts also should be made to verify snith's statement

that Nunzio Provenzano reportedly was seen giving noney to Barrett

and Clark. If this can be substantiated

the reason for vunzio

Provenzano paying these individuals should be determined.

With respect to the gun involved in the murder of Glockner,

it is noted that the laboratory report of the New Jersey State

Police, set out on pages 306 and 30% of rerep, did not state the

make of weapon used in the murder or the probable make of this

weapon.

for the iniormation of Newark and New York, the FBI Labora-

tory has advised that fron descriptive data set out

laboratory report it appears that the bullets would have been fired

From a colt revolver chambered for 38 caliber smith and Wesson

cartridges.

This opinion is based on the fact that the rifling

characteristics are six lands and grooves with a lefthand twist.

The possibility also should not be overlooked that some spanish made

revolvers may have similar rifling characteristics.

Newark and Now York should consider the feasibility of

examining pisto. permits issued by local authorities in an elfort

to determine whether any permits were issued to officials or members

of Local 560 or their associates for a 38 caliber Colt revolver.

If so, consideration should be given to endeavoring to locate the

weapons in order that test specimens may be fired

fron then.

Investigation should be made to determine whether Angelo

Sporaco, reported by NK2282-C as a strong-arm man for the union and

having visited the office of Teamsters Local 810 in New York City

twice during the week prior to 5/24/63'acconpanied by Nunzio

Provenzano and Sal Briguglio, was involved in the murder of Glockner.

Sporaco's whereabouts during the pertinent period should be ascer-

tained and necessary investigation conducted to verify or refutehis

alibi.

DocId: 32301817

Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEWARK

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

TITLE OF CASE

20di

CHANGED

UNSUBS

(2) ;

WALTER HERMAN

носків,

aka. Haas, Sandy

Wally - VICTIN (Deceased)

DATE

6/7/63

REPORT MADE BY

LINCOLN J. STORES

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/24 - 6/6/63

mam

OOJ

The title of thi

report is marked changed to show the

name of NALTER

LOCKER being changed to his complete

name and aliases.

REFERENCES

Telephone calls and teletypes between Newark,

New York and the Bureau.

Bureau airtel 5/31/63.

!

-P-

ADMINISTRATIVE

The Bureau has instructed that all investigation

in this case must be given immediate, continuous, vigorous,

aggressive and TOP PRIORITY attention.

TYPED BY

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

ECIAL AGENT

INCHARGE

Copies listed on Cover Page A-1

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

722-13/1-51

LE JUN TO 1963

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Crim

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

6/13/63

06d

By

i head by

I Love sisk

Mility ec

#4c4 218151-

Notations

MCTS

REG- 54

REC- 207

<EX-117

DocId: 32301817 Page 5

---

## Page 6

1

NK 72-58

LJS: 1P

INFORMANTS

NK 2267-C-TE advised SA WALTER L. PARKER on May 2%.

1963, that he had been with numerous hoodlums since the shoot-

ing of WALTER GLOCKNER, and that his associates haú no idea

as to who murdered WALTER GLOCKNFR.

ROCCO SANTANSIERO, TUBBY DAVINO, TOMMY GUYDON, and PETE

MICHAELS on various occasions.

NK 2150-C advised SA CLARENCE A. BROM on May 29, 1963,

that he had heard considerable conversations concerning the

murder of WALTER GLOCKNER.

From these conversations, the informant stated that

TONY PRO may have attempted to fix

his trial on extortion charges,

but was entirely unsuccessiul.

TONY PRO, as a precaution in the event that he receives

a jail sentence on

I the extortion charge, reportedly brought

WOUT TIDING of New Brunswick, New Jersey, as a delegate who

take over the operation and management of Local 560 in the

event that PROVENZANO went to juil.

NK 2150-C speculated that WAITER GLOCKNER was not

scheduled to be killed but that on the morning that he was

shot, he possibly was to be picked up in order that some deal

be made with him regarding his alleged comment that he would

testify for the government against TONY PROVENZANO in the

extortion case.

On May 24, 1963 the unknown persons reportealy

scheduled to contact GLOCKNER made some remark and GLOCKNER

refused to go with them. In a "hot-headed exchange", GLOCKTER

was shot.

NK 2150-C stated that the truckers with whom he is

familiar have commented that LAPPY REYNOLDS is possibly responsible

for the shooting.

NK 2150-C indicated that the above information is

speculation and has not been substantiated by the persons with

- E

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32301817 Page 6

---

## Page 7

3

NK 72-58

LJS: 1p

NK 2282-C advised SA LYNN G. TWEDE on May 28, 1963,

that NUNZIO APROVENZANO.and SAL BRIGUGLIO had visited the

Teamsters Office of Local 810, New

was with them on both occasions. Reportedly SPORACO has been

used on a number of occasions to administer beatings for the

Teamsters, and he reportedly was recently convicted in New

York for beating several employees of the J. G. Braun Company

during a strike.

NK

1998

1918-C was contacted on May 29, 1963, by SA

EUGENE F. COYLE.

The informant stated that about one week prior to

the murder of WALTER GLOCKVER, either BOBBY KANCOCK OL BOBERZ

GWINETT returned to the 513 Club, 513 First Street, Hoboken,

New Jersey, with a bloody nose.

received at the Domino Club from either

i her do co or Rocks

(Last Name Unknown), who is associated in the operation of the

Domino Club.

The informant indicated that WALTER GLOCKNER: BOBBY

HANCOCK, - RAYMOND ACARNE

RAY!

VELINEY (phonetic), GARYYBURKE

ROBERT GWINETT, -and HILLIAM BAZANT

proceeded to the Domino

Club located in the vicinity of Pier 8 and had a fight with

people in the Domino Club.

Reportedly baseball bats, chairs,

and pool sticks were used in this brawl, and some of

the people

in the Domino Club were badly beaten.

The informant further speculated that the killers

Of GLOCKER could have possibly been under orders from ARMAND

BAUGNO, also known as "Cokey", who is described by the Informant

as an associate and business partner of TONY PRO.

The informant

stated that FAUGNO and TONY PRO have a large amount of money

invested in various business enterprises and FAUGNO, in the

opinion of the informant, would resort to any means

to prevent

TONY PRO from being convicted in the current extortion trial.

In this regard, FAUGNO reportedly has a chauffeur

and bodyguard named BILLIE (Last Name Unknown). This person

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32301817 Page 7

---

## Page 8

1

NK 72-58

LUS: mm

On May 27, 1963, Newark PCI GRACE CUTILLO telephonically

advised SA NORBERT

R. LINKER that WALTER GLOCKNER had been one

of four individuals shylocking money in the hoboken area.

PCI identified the other individuals as ROBERT GWINNETT,

aka. Bobby, DAVE MELNER (PA) and GARY BURNE.

PCI advised that the shylock operation of this outfit

is generally from the 513 Club, 513 First Street, Hoboken, New

Jersey•

Of the four people, GLOCKNER and GWINNETT are UsuAllY

the closest companions.

porelated that sume munths ago, GLOCKNaR and

GWINNETT

shylocked a loan of $500 to a person known to PCI

as CHAMP

Luncheonette

CLARK

CLARK is described as the manare: of Dee's

whisput owned by a Hoboken fence named DE FILIPPO

(PH) .

CLARK reportedly lives over Dee's Luncheonette and

is described as a white male, approzimately 29 years of age,

584" - 5", tall, with black curley hair.

PCI indicaced that CLARK became delinquent in his

payments to GLOCKNER and GWINNETT at which time they

went

looking for CLARK to work him over. PCI stated that to the

best of her recollection,

this was

approximately three months

ago.

GWINNETT and GLOCKNER did locate CLARK at the Musical

Bar in Union City, New Jersey; however, they learned that

CLARK was carrying a pistol so they did

not cause any harm

to CLARK.

PCI states that allegedly CLARK then left New Jersey

and went to Connecticut out of fear of GLOCKNER and

GWINNETT. In the meantime, arrangements were made by POl

to make weekly payments owed by CLARK to GLOCKNER.

PCI states that CLARK is believed to still carry a

pistol on occasions and has indicated a hatred towards

GLOCKNER.

PCI

further indicated that CLARK is sometimes known

as SONNY

CLARK and the luncheonette of which he is manager is

located near the intersections of Jackson Avenue and Observer

Highway in Hoboken.

- I

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32301817 Page 8

---

## Page 9

2

NK 72-58

LJS: mm

Ci recalled that Donau

But who is described

as a white male, 6'1"

curly black hair, around

2s rears of age, received a shylock lon of $800 some months

ago from GLOCKNER and his associates.

PCI stated that SMITH became delinguent in his

payments and was severely beaten by GLOCKNER and otners in

Hoboken.

PCI advised that SMITI is believed to be currently

serving a sentence in Hudson County Jail, Jersey City, New

Jersey, for violation of parole on a non-support charge.

pci stated that SMiTh's wife and his mother reside

at 916 or 919 Clinton screet in Hoboken, New Jersey, and both

were aware of the indebtedness of SMITH to GLOCKNER and his

associates.

The above information furnished by PCI GRACE

CUTILLO is placed on the administrative pages of this report

since CUTILLO acted as an intermediary in the delinquent

shylock loans between CLARK and the group associated with

GLOCKNER.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32301817

Page

9

---

