JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10202-10335
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 62-9-33-299
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, NO
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 01/26/1962
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS :
CIP, FISUR, CM, POLICE CUSTODY, GUATEMALA, RTN TO
US
DOCUMENT TYPE: - PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: — INC A/T

v9.1
DocId:32290059 Page 1


te

FD-36 (Rey, 12-13-56) tf - B
+ a ee ae

"A FBI :
iy
\ ft : Date: 3 /26 /62

Tratismit the following in _PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Via AIRTEL E AIRMAIL
(Priority or Method of Mailing)
pt TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-33)
df FROM: SAC, NEW ORLEANS (92-50)
beer SUBJECT’ CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM
i WEEKLY SUMMARY

CARLOS MARCELLO

On 1/24/62, Judge ROBERT AINSWORTH, USDC, EDLA, took
under advisement the government's motion to dismiss the Writ
of Coram Nobis.

There is enclosed herewith a letterhead memorandum
reflecting recent information developed regarding the manner
in which CARLOS MARCELLO re-entered the United States. A
copy of this memorandum is being disseminated to Mr. CLARENCE
JOHNSON, District Director, Immigration and Naturalization
Service, New Orleans. he penne

x i & UE rGL Nes
Source 1, JOSEPH GILBERTXMINTJA, ofits CL, New
Orleans officey

‘Sotirce 2, oa PCI, New Orleans Office.

G Director ne" (1-52"50) motos’ 1p iy oA

-New Orleans f
1-92-36 -

RLK:mh
(5)

DocId:32290059 Page 2


ene
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New Orleans, Louisiana

In Reply, Please Refer to January 26, 1962
File No.

CARLOS MARCELLO

Source One (1) of the New Orleans Office,who has
provided reliable information in the past, advised that in

December, 1961 © was in Guatemala City, Guatemala and there
met. WwW , 10 Cale 1253.1 smeBONe. ds, Guatemala ,
whom S Source’ vised he believed to be a political f fixer

and an associate of the Chief of Police of Guatemala. This
source advised that Bramlett, while drinking, claimed to have
been a contact of an attorney named Muron, from Shreveport

i and Bramlett assisted Marcello in being released from pohice
custody while in Guatemala. Bramlett also claimed he was in-
strumental in getting Marcello and Muron out of Guatemala
and through arrangements made by Bramlett, Marcello was taken
by a small boat to an island off the coast of Honduras about
50 or 100 miles where Marcello transferred to another boat
which brought him back to the United States. This source
advised that he did not obtain any details how this was ac-
complished but stated he did not wish to appear to be too
interested because of personal interests in Guatemala.

Source Two (2) advised that he had an occasion to
speak to Marcello and Marcello related how he was deported
from Guatemala to El Salvadorewhere he was held in jail for

approximately a weék and thén te entered Honduras where they
stayedin a city which has’ an airport. Attorney Mic Maroun.
accompanied Marcello on this trip and in ~Hondura. [aro sf t,

registered at a hotel and then departed from Honduras and &*
returned to the United States, apparently by air. Marcello.
remained at the hotel registered as Maroun and stayed there
without leaving the hotel because he feared arrest, until

he made arrangements to effect his return to the United

States. This source advised that Marcello stated that he

has but one secret in the world and that is how he got back 7
to the United States, and no one, not even his wife, knows \
how he did it. \,

This source advised thatat the time of this conver-
sation, Marcello had been drinking and he does not know whether
there is any truth to his remarks.

COPIES DESTROYED This document contains neither re-
FEB G6 19640 OT the FBI It is the property of the (8!
and is loaned to your agency; it and
ia 7 its contents are not to be distribut-
ENCLC. 2 ed outside your agency,
og

DocId:32290059 Page 3

commendations nor conclusions of * |


|e

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New Orleans, Louisiana
January 26, 1962

In Reply, Please Refer to
File No.

- CARLOS MARCELLO

Source One (1) of the New Orleans Office, who has
provided reliable information in the past, advised that in
December, 1961 he was in Guatemala City, Guatemala and there
met J; T. (John) Bramlett, 10 Cale 12-31, Zone 1, Guatemala,

y whom this source advised he believed to be a political fixer
of and an associate of the Chief of Police of Guatemala. This
7 source advised that Bramlett, while drinking, claimed to have
been a contact of an attorney named Muron, from Shreveport
and Bramlett assis Marcello in being released from police
. custody while in-Guatemaia. Bramlett also claimed he was in-
" strumental in getting Marcello and Muron out of Guatemala
and through arrangements made by Bramiett, Marcello was taken
by ‘a small boat~to an island off the coast of Honduras about
50 or 100 miles where Marcello transferred to another boat
~ which brought him back to the United States. This source
advised that he did not obtain any details how this was: ac-
complished but stated he did not wish to appear to be too
. interested because of personal interests in Guatemala.

Source Two (2) advised that he had an occasion to
speak to Marcello and Marcello Zelated how-he was deported
from Guateinala to El Salvadorewhere he was held in jail for
approximately a week and thente entered Honduras -where they
stayedin a city which has an airport. Attorney Michaad Maroun
accompanied Marcello on this. trip and in Honduras, Maroun
registered at a hotel and then departed from Honduras and
returned to the United States, apparently by air. “Marcello
-remained at the hotel registered as Maroun and stayed there
without leaving the hotel because he feared arrest, until

he made arrangements to effect his return to the United
States. This source advised that Marcello stated that he
has but one secret in the world and that is how he got back i
to the United States, and no one, not even his wife, knows

how he did it. i

This source advised thatat the time of this conver-
sation, Marcello had been drinking and he does not know whether
‘there is any truth to his remarks.

1
i

This document contains neither re-

Commendations nor conclusions of|
| the FBI It is the property of the FB
f and is loaned to your agency; it and:

its contefts are not to be. distribut:
' ute
ed outside your agency.

DocId:32290059 Page 4
