# docid-32565119

## Page 1

.

..

PH 92-441

Leads

PHILADELPHIA

AT MOOS IC a PA..

Will identify the subscriber to telephone GI 7-3631

which was called on 7/4/61 from the residence of the subject.

At Old Forge, Pau

Will conduct investigation in the vicinity of the Iris

Cly Texttle company to determine whether or not anyone is caployed.

at this operation other than CASPER "CAPPY" GUIMENTO.

2.

Will endeavor to establish sources capable of furnishing

information concerning the activity at the Iri-elty Textile Company.

Will check the Old Forge banks concerning the Tri-City

Textile Company and, if any account for this concern is located,

will monitor the account since this organization is allegedly

a front of the subject.

At Pittston, Pa.

Will maintain contact with the follwing for information

concerning the subject:

PH 521 - C

PH 526-0

ORLANDO MENCHI former PCI

WILLIAM STRUBECK,

PCI

It. JOSEPH DELANEY, Pittston Police Department

At Quakertown. Pai

Will reinterview Trooper JOHN CLISHAM, Pennsylvania

State Police for any information he may have concerning the subject.

At Scranton, Pa.

1. Will maintain contact with the following:

FRANK COLLINS • PCI

WILLIAM FALLIA - POI

ROBERT PATTON - PCI

PH 599-0

PH 577-C

- D =

OVER PAGE

DocId: 32565119 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PH 92-441

Administrative Data

KCC 3181, 1960 Buick, registered to FRED

MACERINO, 59-31 72nd Street, Maspeth, Queens.

FHC 858 (New Jersey), 1959 Cadillac, registered

to SAL CAPPOLI, 353 5th Street, Jersey CIty, N. J.

HAY advised that his agents observed LOUIS COFFI and

ANTHONY STROLLO leave the following car and enter the restaurant:

1961 Cadillac, license #34946 HD.

HAY also advised that MARIO GIANTI was seen leaving a

car

with an unidentified individual and going into the restaurant,

car license #8N 8394, 1961 Oldsmobile, registered to DOMINIC

IQUINTO, 101 Thompson Street, New York City.

An unidentified individual was seen leaving a 1961

Cadillac, SN 3964, which is registered to CATHERINE ALONGI, 187

Bay 13th Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

It is to be noted that the two

aforementioned registrations are similar in registration numbers.

CATHERINE ALONGI may be the wife of DOMINIC ALONGI Who is very

close to VINCENT GIANTI, reported person who attended the assassi

nation of FRANK COSTELLO.

New York City Police Department report

indicated that DOMINIC ALONGI may have driven the getaway car

for VINCENT GIANTI.

VINCENT GIANTI is presently serving time in

a Federal penitentiary for narcotics violation.

Other cars included 2948 QK, 1961 Oldsmobile, registered

to M. CARL MARKLEX, 104-60 Queens Boulevard, Forest Hills, N. Y•

stated that it

could not be determined 1f MARKIEY was

meeting, but the car was parked in front of the restaurant prior

to the meeting and MARKLEY was observed entering the car immediately

after the meeting was over.

Other cars were FSK 631 (New Jersey),

1961 Cadillac, registered to KENNETH ROSSI, 270 5th Street,

Newark,

N. J., and 9Z 1226, 1961 Lincoln Continental, registered to

JOSEPH PIGANO.

HAY advised that prior to this meeting he had received

information from a confidential source that RUSSELL BUFALINO, a

top hoodlum from Pittston, Pa., telephonically contacted one CARMINE

TREMANTI (phonetic), a known hoodlum in the East Harlem area.

HAY

advised BUFALINO indicated through TREMANTI that TREMANtI was to

get in touch with ANTHONY STROLLO and call a meeting relative to

the GALLO situation in Brooklyn. HAY indicated that it was his

•F=

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32565119 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-441

Administrative Data

opinion that this meeting, which occurred three-quarters

of an

hour after this telephone call at 180 Prince Street, was called

as a result of BUFALINo's telephonic contact. It is requested

that no mention be made of the aforementioned conversation between

SA HAY and SA MC SHANE of the New York Office as HAY was apparently

furnishing this information in strict confidence to MC SHANE.

PCIS THOMAS CURRAN and DAVE ROBERTS were contacted on

10/26/61 by SA VINCENT G. DOUGHERTY but were unable to furnish

any pertinent information concerning this case.

U. S. Treasury Department,

who was formerly assigned at Scranton,

Pa . 9

is no longer connected with Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division

His successor is SAUL GOODMAN with whom current contact is

continuing.

Trooper JOHN CLISHAM, Pennsylvania State Police, Quakertown,

Pa., on 10/14/61 advised SA NOAH R. BASS that his mother and sister

live in an apartment in Pittston, Pa, which is located under the

apartment of the alleged

girl friend

of the subject.

He advised

he had never spoken to his mother or sister about the subject,

but would do so in the near future and would furnish any infor

mation so obtained to the FBI.

The New York Office on 1/3/62 advised that NY 3488-0*

reported no pertinent activity during the week 12/25/61 through

12/29/61.

Informants

PH T-1 - JOHN WALSH, part owner of PIlosi's Bar, Old Forge,

Pa., and a resident of South Street, Avoca, Pa.

PH T-2 -

FRANK COLLINS, PCI.

PH T-3 -

MR. EDWARD I. BROWNE, New York Telephone Company,

New York City.

PH T-4

ANN SHAMSKY, Clerk, Bell Telephone Company, Scranton,

PH T-5 -

EUGENE MC CARTHY, Assistant Manager, Hotel Forrest,

New York City.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32565119 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-441

Informants

PH I-6 - LEILA PATTON, Bell Telephone Company, Wilkes Barre, Pa.

PH T-7-

DANIEL CHAPMAN, Commercial Superintendent, Commonwealth

Telephone Company, Dallas,

pa.

PH T-8 -

ANN O'TOOLE, Bell Telephone Company, Scranton, pa.

PH T-9 -

It .

W. BEINON, Scranton Police Department, Scranton,

(by request).

PH T-10 - PH 526-C.

PH I-11 - SAUL GOODMAN, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division, U.S.

Treasury Department, Wilkes Barre, Pa.

PHT-12 - DOLORES HOLLENBACK, Retail Credit, Scranton, Pa.

PH T-13 - PH 521-C.

PH T-14 - MARY LAWRENCE, Dun and Bradstreet, Scranton,

Pa.

PH T-15 - BETTY DAVIS, Northeastern National Bank of Scranton,

Scranton, Pa.

PH T-16 • PETER O'DONNELL, Assistant Cashier, Third National

Bank, Scranton,

Pa.

PH T-17 - ROBERT LONG, Vige President, Scranton National Bank,

Scranton, Pa.

PH T-18 - ROBERT QUINIAN, PCI.

PH T-19 - WILLIAM STRUBECK, PCI.

PH T-20 =

JOSEPH DELANEY, Pittston PoliCe Department, Piteston,

pa.s

(by request).

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32565119

Page 4

---

