# docid-32296304

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10217-10080

HQ

92-2713-503

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

COLLINS, PATRICK J. JR.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/10/1968

PAGES:

15

SUBJECTS :

CM, ASSOC, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/03/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

-COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32296304

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

- FD-263 (Rev. 3-8-67)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

CARLOS MARCELLO, Aka.

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

DATE

710/68

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

4/27/68 - 6/28/68

SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, IR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED BY

imed

REF FRENCE

dated 4/26/68.

New Orleans report of SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.

-P-

copies made play

2-8-28 ila

LEADS

HSCA re 1-26-38 request.

NEW ORLEANS

(See Bufile #62-117290)

AI NEW ORLEANS, LA., Will identify FRANK MARULLO,

8271 South Claiborne, New Orleans, La., who alleges he is an

associate of the subject.

CONVIC.

AUTO.

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED NONE

FINES

SAVINGS

ACQUIT-

RECOVERIES

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR [X YES NO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

_YES DINO

APPROVED

...SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

3-

Bureau (92-2713)

2 - USA, New Orleans

(J. - Departmental

Attorney OWEN NEFF)

3 - New Orleans (92-36)

92-2713

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

503

REC-39

E-110

1

JUL 12 1968

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

11141.

727-61

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

_CC. AAG, Criminal Division,

Organized Crime

and Racketeering

Antidia

Notations

STRENGT

How Fwd.

By

vection,

Room

1968

# US. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1967 0-273-877

DocId: 32296304

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-36

(2) Interview PAUL DASTAUGE, Medallion Real Estate Co.,

3949 Veterans Highway, who has recently been in some type of

real estate difficulty with the MARCELLO brothers. It is noted

that DASTAUGE recently returned from out of State.

(3) Conduct credit, criminal, and background on Mrs.

MARGARET DE SALVO, nee Bergeron, switchboard operator, Town

and Country Motel, and consider

approaching under the TECIP

Program.

(4) Contact American National Bank, New Orleans, La.,

regarding receivership of the Chateau Apartment complex, Monroe,

La., to determine if MARCELLO involved in this

(5) Will follow and report the activity of the subject.

(6) Will report results of investigation outstanding in

other field divisions

INFORMANTS

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

NO T-1 is NO 1552 - PC

NO T-2 is NO 1617 - PC

NO T-3 is NO 1435 - C - TE

CONTACTING AGENT

SA DELBERT W. HAHN

SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI

SA JACK EVANS MEHL

SA NATHAN O. BROWN

NO T-4 is JOSEPH OVERSTREET

(by request)

NO T-5 is NO 1582 - PC

NO T-6 is NO 1334 - C

NO T-7 is NO 1600 - PC

NO T-8 is JANICE GROSS, PC

SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI

SA THOMAS J. FAY

SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI

SA EUGENE TERREFENKO

- BE

-

(COVER PAGE)

DocId: 32296304

Page 3

---

## Page 4

NO 92-36

NO T-9 is NO 1232 - C - TE

NO T-10 is NO 1530 - PC

SA REED W. JENSEN

SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.

= C*

-

(COVER PAGE)

DocId: 32296304

Page

---

