# docid-32254170

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

9/21/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

HSCA

180-10091-10228

RECORD SERIES :

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 008822

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

HSCA

ROBERTS, WARREN

DATE: 05/18/1978

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS:

....ACTIVITIES, FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

AUSTIN, HORACE J.

BRINQUIER, CARLOS JOSE

ROBERTS, WARREN

HERNANDEZ, CELSO MACARIO

OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, POLITICAL AND

SUBVERSIVE..

CRUZ, MIGUEL MARIANO

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/25/1995

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Attached notes.

Box #:160.

v9.1

WW 55923

DocId: 32254170 Page 1

---

## Page 2

KENNEDY

008822

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

Identifying Information:

Name

Warren Roberts

Address

501 No Rampart St.

City/State_

New Orleans, La.

Date of Birth

Social Security

3-30-41

JEK Act 6 (3)

Physical Description:

Height

6'2"

Weight 225

Ethnic Group_ Caucasian

Date

Place

5-18-78

501 N. Rampart St.

Telephone

Mor S

Spouse_

Children

586-5011

Color Eyes Blue Hair Blond

Special Characteristics

1. Personal History:

a.

Present Employment:

Address

715 S. Broad St.

Telephone

586-5011

Sergeant New Orleans Police Department

b. Criminal Record

1. Arrests

2. Convictions

Additional Personal Information:

a.

Relativa(s) :

Name

Address

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

Investigator

Robert Buras

Date

NN 55923 DocId:32254170 Page 2

Form #4-B

---

## Page 3

KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Name

Address

Warren Roberts

501 No Rampart St.

New Orleans, La.

Date

Place

5-1878

Time

3: 00PM

501 N. Rampart St.

Interview:

Investigator Robert Buras spoke with Sgt.

Roberts relative to

the attached report dated Aug. 12, 1963. Roberts stated that

he was in company with Sgt. Horace Austin who actually made the

report. The Officers spoke with all the arrested subjets in one

room at the same time.

The only interest at that time was to

ascertain the possiblity of trouble from any individual or group

Feelings were high in the

argue with Oswald. At one point in the interview

the Commanding

Officer of the First District, Captain James Arnold, came into the

room and asked Oswald if the Fair Play For Cuba Committee was

communist or a communist front.

Oswald denied that he was a com-

munist and that the organization was a communist front.

Oswald

stated that he joined the F.P.C.C. after finding a leaflet on the

street and sending $5.00 to New

York.

He also stated that he met

with members locally but did not want to give any names etc.

Roberts stated that he did not see or hear anything about

Oswald wanting to call or talk with an F.B.I.' Agent while he was

Roberts couldn't remember any other details about the in-

terview.

End

Of

Memo

Interviewer Signature

Typed Signature

Date transcribed

BY:

Form

#4-A

NW 55923 DocId:32254170 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DEPARTMENT OF POLICE

INTEROFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

TO

FROM

Major Presly J. Trosclair Jr.

- DATE August 12, 1963

Set. Horace J. Austin & Patn. Warren Roberts

SUBJECT:-

Interview of four male subjects at the First District

Police

Station, on Friday, August 9, 1963, after their

arrest

from Canal Street.

Sir:

The following information is respectfully reported relative

to the interview of four arrested subjects in the first District

Police Station,

beginning at about 4:45 F.M., Friday, August 9,

1963, One of the four subjects, identified as Lee harvey Oswald,

UM, age 23, residing 4907 Magazine street

had allegedly been

djatributing communist literature on Canal Street, and three

had become involved in

four subjects.

Lee Harvey Oswald furnished the following information when

interviewed.

Fie is a member of The fair Play For Cuba Committee, whose

address is 799 Eroadway, New York 3, N.

telephone 0R4-8295.

Oswald had

in his possession a National Membership card issuon on

5/28/63, and the residents name on this card was

"V. T. Lee."

Oswald had also a

local membership card dated 6/6/63 (N.0. Chapter

of the FPFCC), and the president of the local chapter, whose name

was on the card was "A. Hidell."

Oswald presented his Social Security Card, which did not bear his

signature, and the number of this card was 433-54-3937.

Oswald presented his U. S. Marine Corp. discharge card

(Honorable)

bearing service number 1653230, and date of active duty from

24 Oct 1956 to 11 Sept. 1959.

Oswald stated he was born in New Orleans on October 18, 1939,

that he is about 5' 9" tall, about 140. lbs., and is a mechanic by

trade.

He stated he did mechanic work in the Marine Corps, and

that he is presently unemployed and häs been so about three weeks.

Before he was laid-off, Oswald stated, he worked at the Louisiana

Coffee Company for about three months,

and before that he had

worked at fort worth, texas, at a sheetmetal flace. Uswald stated

he worked in Fort worth at the sheetmetal place for several months,

but was very evasive in answering any further questions of

employment prior to that time.

was Marina Pross, WE, age 21.

4907 Magazine Street, lower center, New Orleans.

WW -55923--DooId:32254170-Pager4

---

## Page 5

-2..

Oswald stated that he has two brothers, who reside, like his

mother, in Fort Worth, Texas. He stated that his father, John Lee

Oswald's in dece Marrarette Oswald, resides by herself in

Fort Worth, Texas.

Oswald's brothers:

Robert Oswald, VM, age 27,

John Oswald, WM, a ge 32,

Oswald

stated he had talked to Major Trosclair about getting a

permit for F.F.F.C.C. and the Major advised him to consult his attorney.

Oswald said he never did go ard see about a permit at city hall.

Oswald further stated the Cubans came un to him where he was

giving out the leaflets and began to tear them up and throw them

in the street.

Oswald stated that they started to yell that he

was a communist and about that time the officers from the first

Disteict came up and a crowd had gathered. Oswald stated he joined the

Fair Play for Cuba Committee when he found a leaflet on the street

one day and read what was on it, and sent $5.00 to the address

which was in New York city and after a brief period of time he was

sent material through the mail and contacted locally, and he started

to attend the meetings; which he stated were

each others

homes.

Oswald stated

they, the members, get together and talk

about how it would be to visit cuba, life in Cuba, etc..

Oswald denied the organization was cormunist, or a communist

board with"VIVA VIVA Fidel" painted on it and the paraphernalia

he was handing out was pasted on this cardroard also.

Oswald

stated he has never been to Cuba, and it apreared as

though he

is being used by these people and is very uninformed and knows

very little about this organization that he belongs to and

Its ultimate purpose or goal. Uswald stated that the people that

attend these informal meetings are working class people, such as

clerical, trades, etc..

The three Cubans were interviewed and furnished the following

information:

I1. Celso Macario Hernandez, VM,

age 47, D.0.B. 1/8/16,

Social Security number

JFK Act 6 (3)

Hernandez statld he came to the United States via Miami,

Florida; on october l, 1902, with his family and he was a

traveling book salesman in Cuba.

He came to New Orleans on

January 8, 1963 and resides at 519 Adele Street, new Orleans

with his family.

He has not had any employment

except for a

few days of manual labor in Miami, Florida, and is presently on

relief or welfare.

NW 55923 DocId: 32254170 Page 5•

-2-

---

## Page 6

- 3-

The names of the family of Celso M. Hernandez are as

follows:

Wife:

Maria De La Caridad Valero, We, age 41 (Maiden name)

Daughter:

Maria De Los Angles, WF, age 14

Son:

Nicholas Pablo,

Daughter:

Teresita, Wi, age o

11

Hernandez stated he saw Oswald at approximately 1:30 P.!.,

August s, 1963, passing out comunist literature and he went and

got his friends

at 107 Decatur Street and at first they were

unable to locate this subject Oswald when they got on the canal

the Casa Roca retail clothing store.

They remained there until

someone came in and told them where

Oswald was and they then

proceeded to that location, where the three of them were carrying

the sign described in formation relative to Carlos Bringuier

in this memo.

They then began to argue with oswald and a crowd

gathered and they were all (four) arrested by the police.

#2. Carlos Jose Bringuier, age 29, D.O.B. 6/22/34, 518", 150 Ibs.,

residing 501 Adele

Street,

residing this address about

three months,

born in Havana, Cuba.

Bringuier stated he is manager of the Casa Roca retail

clothing store, located 107 Decatur Street, New Orleans.

He

tegan his employment about October 1, 1962.

Bringuier previously residing at 2046 Pelopidas Street.

He lives with his wife and four children.

Wife:

Maria Del Carmen (Bearce), WF, age 25

Born in Argentina, Buenos

Aires

in Buenos

Nate eded rebar 1o6, at Miami, elorida, by plane.

Wife entered

U. S. in Miami in

May, 1901.

Ages of children are 6,. 5, 3 and 2.

Julio and Vicenta Bringuier, mother and father, reside at

1769 S. W. 17th. Street, Miamai, Florida, Bringuier stateo.

Julio was

born in 1895 in Remedios, Cuba,

entered the U.S. after

invasion, believed by Bringuier to

be in May of 1961.

Vicenta was born in 1894 in Moron, Cuba, and entered

the U.S.

with Julio.

Carlos Bringuier gave the following names of his brothers and

sisters:

Julio Enrique Bringuier, (brother), age 41, born Moron, Cuba,

now

residing 1769 SW. 17th. Street, Miami, entered the U. S. at

end

of 1961.

Maria Gertrudis (Felaez, age 42, (sister), resides 2224 Mendez

Street, married to Rolando Pelaez, who also works at the Casa Roca

clothing store, 107 Decatur Street, New Orleans.

born in Cuba,

unmarried.

Maria Del Carmen (Medina), age 39, (sister), married to jorge Medina,

age 41, who is in Cuba. Maria

Del Carmen lives

in Iberville project

- 3 .

NW 55923 DocId: 32254170 Page 6

---

## Page 7

-4 -

in New Orleans,

believed to be on Iberville Street. Jorge Medina was

working in Criminal Court in Havana, went crazy.

Carlos Jose Bringuier also gave the following information

relating to hinself.

His social

security number

JEK Act 6 (3)

His selective service number 16 42 34

462, classified 5-A,

local board 742, New Orleans, dated August 24,

1961

Fossesses Louisiana drivers license number 1585883, date of

issue 2/26/62, address on license 4525 Duplessis Street.

Possesses Immigrant Resident card #A 12 546 223, dated 2/8/61

Bringuier further stated that he is a local delegate of the

, in City of New Orleans, apfointed by

Student Directorate, 2ao. Box tas, Main Post office, Miami, Florida,

student Directorate,

telephone Franklin 3-1476.

Bringuier stated that his first job in New Orleans was with

the California Redwood Produce CO he worked here two days.

on s. Peters street, owned by

Mr. L. C. Levy. Bringuier stated

Bringuier then worked at Mac's Discount House, located at

714 Canal Street, for about one year, beginning April 1, 1961.

Bringuier then became a self

employed pedler in April of 1962

with his brother-in-law, Rolando Felaez.

They bought clothing and

radios wholesale and went aboard ships to sell same. Bringuier

stated that he had a Port Security Card.

Bringuier then stated that on October 1, 1962, he opened

the Casa Roca clothing store, 107 Decatur Street, and has been

working here until this date.

sringuier stated that he keeps the sign, in the cuban's

rossession at the time of arrest this date, in his store.

miriged by two links of the chal in chains!"

The sign reads "Danger! Only

90 miles from U.S.d., Cuba lies

Bringuier stated that the sign was given to him by Arnesto

rodriguez, age in his 30's, who resided at 1208 St. Charles Street

at the time Arturo Frondizi came to New Orleans

in January or February of 1962.

Bringuier believes Frondizi is

a cormunist, and he has two brothers in Argentina who are

Communists.

Bringuier further stated that he came to New Orleans right

from Miami, Florida

on February 18, 1961 by Greyhound bus, arriving in New Orleans

#3.

Miguel Mariano Cruz,

age 18, D.O.B. 9/27/44, residing

2526 Mazant Street,

New Orleans, unmarried, lives with

mother, father and three sisters.

-4-

NW 55923 DocId: 32254170 Page 7

---

## Page 8

- 5 -

Mother: Victoriana (Enriquez) Cruz, age 56

Father:

Claudio Cruz, age 64, uremployed, on Welfare.

Sisters:

Hordensia Maria Cruz,

age 26, a student at Capelle

Beauty Schoold, 1509 St. Charles Avenue.

Ina Josefa Cruz, age 25, stays at home.

Maria Teresa Gruz, age 19, works at a petroleum company

at night.

Miguel Mariano Cruz stated that he is unemployed and is a

student Nichols High School, Ilth. grade, in New Orleans.

Miguel Cruz presented his Selective Service Card, #16 145 44 483,

classified 1-h, dated 5/27/61, Local Board #145, Orleans Parish.,

also his Immigrant resident card #A 12 920 831,

bearing name

"Miguel Mariano Cruz Enriquez".

Higuel Cruz stated that he entered the U.s. in san Juan,

right to New Orleans,

stated that his parents and three sisters entered the U. S. on

the same date.

When asked about other relations, Miguel Cruz named the

following

: brothers.

address unknown, in New Orleans, married,

wife's name

waiter at the Royai Orleans Hotel.

Has two children, and is employed as a

claudio Cruz, age 33, residing 2569 Congress Street, wife's

name "Angela"

, no children, employed as Bus Boy at the Royal

Orleans Hotel.

Enrique Cruz, age 23, residing 2601 Bartholomew Street, wife's

name. "Olga", no children, is unemployed and on welfare.

The interview of the above four arrested subjects by

Sgt. Austin and Fatn. Roberts was concluded at approximately

6:00 F.M., same date, August 9, 1963.

Respectfully,

Sgt. Horace J. Austin

Patn. Warren Roberts Jr.

NW 55923

DocId: 32254170 Page 8

---

## Page 9

6/6/63.

A. Hi DeCe

cocial scut # 733-54-3937

See Harey Gawald

in MSMC. #165 3230

24 Oct. 1756 to 11 Lipt / TSP

W/r78 Oct:18, 1939. bornia N. 0.

59 14p802

/ Mace

- Marina Prose W/F 2/ 2Ea

1I child - 17inthsi

"та.

Gene came yes toe ay

NW 55923 DocId: 32254170 Page 9 •

---

## Page 10

1 Zai Rando Cula Committee

V.T. Lee

FPFCC, No, Chester

6/6/63

A. Hi Dece

escal sunty # 733-54-3937

Lee Harey swald

in MSMC # 165 3230

24 Oct. 1956 to 11 Lept /T59

W/M28. 0#18

59" 14A86s

14939, botne in N. O.

Maced - Marina Proca 0/F21 Fon

I I chill - 1Tnths,

stile de anto a die ilo

27-85923 Da denitos Pade 10

---

## Page 11

"/..

5.1.5

pr

7/9/63

Celso Milacaria

Hermand

W/M 47 DOB

DOB

1/8/16

JEK Act 6 (3)

Oct 9, 1962 carno te CliSe en

Miné fe.

/ 1/2/67 cane to NiO.

trada, corte semas isla,

/ María De La Caridad Valero /=

le to0

Nichan Palló w/M 11

reto caret Chel ge

NW 55923 DocId: 32254170 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Gen (420s

Nice singaretle

She tie Canal Win (ern)

1901 1

-gazine (lown cente,

endel 5' g

5-pr

9/9/63

Celso Macaria Hernande

W/M 47 DOB

JOB 1/8/16

JFK Act 6 (3)

/ Oct 9, 1962 came to 1151 eve

Alerine

/

1: 1/2/67 came to N.D.

• Cao

¿ Macia De La Caridad Valero"/

WW 55923

de prei le too area WE 14

---

