# docid-32310733

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10307-10037

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-641

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/06/1962

1

SGI, ASSOC, ARMORY LOUNGE, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32310733

304

Page 1

---

## Page 2

4-41 (Rev. 8-2-61)

DECODED COPY

Radio

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HENCIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 4-20.94 8YSP5056/CAL

3-6-62

4:20 AM

xx Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr _

Callahan

Conrad .

DeLoach

Evans -

Malone

mosen .

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy -

DEFERRED

RUL

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM SAC, CHICAGO

4

060755

SAMUEL. MO GIANCANA, AKAO, ARO DAILY SUMMARY GIANCANA OBSERVED

AT ARMORY LOUNGE, HOODLUM HEADQUARTER, FOREST PARK, ILLINOIS, AT

VARIOUS TIMES FRIDAY MARCH 2 THROUGH

SUNDAY, MARCH 4 BY CHICAGO

PCI GLADYS EBLE. GIANCANA OBSERVED BOTH ENTERING AND DEPARTING

LOUNGE AND HOLDING CONFERENCE WITH PERSON IN WHITE T BIRD PARKED

ON THOMAS ST., FOREST PARK, ILLINOIS. CG 6486-0* REPORTED

GIANCANA IN INFORMAL DISCUSSION AT ARMORY LOUNGE EARLY AM MARCH 4

"WITH PERSON POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH FRANK FERRARO AND GIRL FRIEND,

JEAN THE SO

FERRARO IS CHICAGO TOP HOODLUM GIANCANA LIEUTENANTS

.. AND BODYGUARDS, JOHN MATTASSA AND BUTCH BLAS FREQUENTLY IN PRESENCE

OF SOURCE OVER

WEEKEND, HOWEVER, MADE NO MENTION OF ANY CONTEMPLATED:

:: TRIP BY GIANCANA. CHICAGO INFORMANTS AND SOURCES FAIL TO REVEAL

ANY INFORMATION INDICATING GIANCANA OR OTHER CHICAGO HOODLUMS

CURRENTLY IN CHICAGO AREA PLAN TRAVEL TO MIAMI AREA IN IMMEDIATE

FUTURE. GIANCANA ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED:

5:30 AM

RN

REC- 53

92-3171=

HE MAR & 1962

258

62 MAR 1 8 1962

f the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32310733

Page 2

---

