# docid-32585256

## Page 1

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUN 6 1966

TELETYPE

PBI WASH DO

ALL INFORMATY

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIEED

IN CONTAINED

DATE 44-24.84

616/66

HOA

ME. LOlson

Mr. DeLoach

Mr.

Gasper-

Mr. Callahar

MI. Coara

Mr. Felt

Gade a

Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

PiMr.

Tavel

The

Miss almos

Miss dandy.

PBI CHICAGO

206 PM CDST DEFERRED

TO DIRECTOR (9203171)

FROM CHICAGO (92-349)

2P

ANTIRACKETEERING

SAMUEL MO

GIANCANA, AKA.

AR.

008

CHICAGO®

=.

ROSYTEL JUNE SIX INSTANT. 0)

CHIÇAGO INFORMANTS FURNISHING INFO INDICATINE THAT SERIOUS

CONCERN AÑONG CHICAGO GROUP HAS BEEN CAUSED BY PUBLICITY AND

CONTROVERSY AROUSED BY RELEASE OF BIANCANA RATHER THAN BRING

CAUS'É FOR CELEBRATION.

GIANCANA RELEASE HAS TOUCHED OFF WHAT

APPERRS TO BE MOUNTING RESENIMENI AGAINSI BEHAVIOR OF GIANCANA:

AND HOODLUM CONNECTIONS. AS BUREAU AWARE, SMOLDERINE DISSENTION

WITHIN RAJAS OF CHICAGO GROUP MAS BEEN A FACI SINCE BIANCANÁ'S:

TRUCTURE OF ORGANIZED CRIME MERE AND EVEN NATIONALLY? SEVEXT, 1956

INSTANCES OF STATE OF DISCONTENI OF HOODLUM LEADERS HENI HAVE -

PREVIOUSLY BEEN FURNISHED BUREAU. MOVEVER, IT NOV APPEARS THIS

END PAGE ONE

79 JUN 21 1966

MR DELOACH FOR THE DIRECTOR

DacId: 32585256 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PAGE: TWO

DISSATISFACTION WITH GIANCANA IS REACHING A CRESCENDO BY

REASON OF FUROR CAUSED. (U)

AS EXAMPLE, CG SIX SEVEN FIVE SIX - C - TE ADVISED JUNE SIX

INSTANT THAT SAM BATTAGLIA REPORTEDLY SAID OVER WEEKEND THAT

RESULTS OF GIANCANA RELEASE IS IHE WORST THING THAT COULD HAVE

HAPPENED TO US." BATTAGLIA APPARENTLY FEELS. THAT AS A RESULT

-OF THIS SITUATION, NEW LAWS WILL BE PASSED WHICH WILL CURTAIL

ORGANIZED CRIME TO A GREATER EXTENT "EVEN THAN NOW." (U)

OTHER INFORMANIS AGREE THAT SPOTLIGHT OF ATTENTION WHICH

IS BEINGEPLACED ON GIANCANA AT THIS TIME WILL SERIOUSLY

ADVERSELY AFFECI HIS ABILITY TO MANAGE THE ARRAIRS OF ORGANIZED

CRI ME. (V)

END

WA.. • RCH

FBI WASH DC

TU CLR

ce. Mr. Gale

DocId: 32585256 Page 2

---

