# docid-32297059

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10218-10335

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3267-659

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DODGE, HAROLD F.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 03/05/1965

PAGES:

58

SUBJECTS :

NRO, RES, TRA, ASSOC, DESCR, B/F INT, BANK ACCOUNT,

TOLL CALLS, RCK

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2, INDEX PAGES a-c

v9.1

DocId: 32297059

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LA 92-113

Two (2) copies of letterhead memorandum sciting

forth characterization of informants utilized in his

report.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The identities of the individuals who furnisned

information set out in this report, which must not be

disclosed except upon issuance

of a subpoena duces tecum,

are as follows:

California Water & Telephone Company, Monrovia,

California - BERNICE THOMPSON, Clerk.

Fidelity Bank, Beverly Hills - DORIS SCHMIDT,

Statement Department.

Security First National Bank, Main Office -

DAVID SPAINHOUR, Assistant Auditor.

United California Bank, Central Accounting

Office. - LEONARD IBBY, Auditor.

nite all and Wine a ott

DONALD H. SMITH, Operations Officer.

Union Bank,

8th and Hill, - VICKI GUERRA, Statement

Department

General Telephone Company, Santa Monica,

California - CSLA 4143-S.

Pacific Telephone Company, Los Angeles,

California - CSIA 4178-S.

New York Telephone Company, New York - EDWARD

L. BRAUNE, Security Supervisor.

on 12/17/64, LA 4335-C-IE furnished information

that in 1961, JOE BONANNO had formulated plans to take over

the

"Family"

in Los Angeles and had approached JOHN ROSSELLI

-B-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32297059 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 92-113

and JOEY GIAMONNA and invited them to participate and both

agreed to do so.

the matter with FRANK DESIMONE, Who th the tepo ten

CROCUSSEC

nead"

of the Los Angeles "Family" and

then made a trip to New

lork

and reportedly discussed the matter with someone in that city,

probably, accoraing to the informant, CARLO GAMBINO.

Thereafter, JOE BONANNO was ordered to give up his plan to

take over Los Angeles.

at the Desert Inn Hotel with the specific instruction that

this telephone number was not to be furnished to anyone,

but RUBY KOLOD.

Informant did not know whether this was

number where ROSSELLI could be reached or what the actual

meaning of the message was.

LV 54-0 advised SA ROBERT D. LEE on 1/12/65,

that 735-0518 is a non-published phone listed to SANDRA

GRAHAM, 2304 South 15th Street, Las Vegas, Nevada.

on 1/12/05, SAC DEAN W. ELSON and SA M. B. PARKER

personally observed

the residence at 2304 south 15th Street,

determined that it is a duplex located in the area

generally known as Francisco Park.

Las Vegas indices are negative re SANDRA GRAHAM.

Las Vegas city directory and telephone

directory are negative

re SANDRA GRAHAM.

OCTAVIA MILLER, Records' Bureau, Clark County Sheriff's

office,

advised IC RAY I. TURNER on 1/13/65 that the files

of that department contain no record of SANDRA GRAHAM.

BARBARA HARRINGTON, Credit Bureau of Southern

Nevada, advised IC RAY I. TURNER on 1/13/05, that records

of the credit bureau reflect that a report dated 10/2/54

reitects SANDRA M. GRAHAM, 2403 South 15th Street, Las Vegas,

was employed at the cascade water company.

The file further

reflected that SANDRA and DONALD M. GRAHAM had been in the

file in November, 1959.

-C

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32297059 Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA 92-110

certain portions of the expenses in the construction of the

race track, which, of course, would be constructed by she Del

Webb Corporation.

ROSSELLI stated to DALITZ that. a lit

BREEN with the Del Webb Corporation in Arizona had appecently

made the request.

Mr. BREEN of the Del Webb Corporation, of course,

would be identical with JOSEPH BREFN's brother,

and it is

known that JOSEPH BREEN's brother is a vice president with

Del Webb Corporation and resides in Phoenix.

DALITZ stated he told ROSSELLI he would under no

circumstances made a recommendation to the Las Vegas Resort

Hotel Association relative to construction of the sports

car race track and as a matter of fact the Desert Inn Hotel

had prior plans for the construction of a smaller sports

car race track in Paradise Valley near the Paradise Valley

Golf Course.

This race track would be financed and operated

solely by the Desert Inn.

DALITZ again expressed his extreme dislike of

ROSSELLI, but stated that in view of his position, he has

to meet and talk with people of ROSSELLI's stature in life,

but that he has thus far been able to keep them at

an arm's

length.

INFORMANTS

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and

symbols were utilized only in those instances

where the identities of the sources must be concealed.

LA T-2

LA I -6

IA T.-80

LA 4145-0

4129-C

Lt. M. B. PHILLIPS

Intelligence Division

Los Angeles Police Department

-E-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32297059 Page 1

---

## Page 5

LA 92-113

LA Tr110

LA T-138

LA I-152

LA I-205

LA T-184

LA T-191

LA

T-194

LA T-193

LA T-199

LA T-200

LA I-203

LA T-204.

LA T-206

LA T-207

LA I-208

DocId: 32297059

Page 5

BETSY DUNCAN, PC.L

LA 4268-0.

IV 10-C

SHARON SHERMAN

Former Switchboard Operator

Glen Towers Apartments

Los Angeles California

LA 4367-0

HEATHER MAC DONALD

Switchboard Operator

Glen Towers Apartments

LOS

Angeles, California

LA 4513-PC

D. A. BONET

Supervisor of Accounts

Hayden Stone, Inc.

611 Wilshire

Boulevard,

Los Angeles, California

GEORGE HOPKINS , Manager

Gien Towers Apartments

LA 4136-0

ANTHONY ROGELI, PCI

IV 134-0

IV 117-C

-F-

COVER PAGE

---

## Page 6

LA 92-113

LA T-209

LA T-210

LA T-211

IV 2-C

A. A. MC COLLUN

= Officiel,

Del E. Webb Corp, Las

Vegas

MORRIS BARNEY DALITZ

Desert Inn Hotel

LEADS

LAS VEGAS OFFICE

AT LAS VEGAS, NEVADA. Will continue to conduct

investigation concerning ROSSELLI's

activities in Las Vegas.

LOS ANGELES OFFICE

investigation concerning

AT LOS ANGELES ROSSELLI S

CALIFORNIA.

Will conduct continuing

activities.

+ -G*_

COVER

PAGE

DocId: 32297059

Page 6

---

