# docid-32316233

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10346-10353

RECORD SERIES :

BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ELSUR 92-61-1085

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: JENKINS

TO:

BU

TITLE :

DATE: 02/25/1964

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

STEVE MAGADDINO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32316233

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

United States Government

MEMORANDUM

TO:

FROM:

SAC (92-61

P)

SA FRANCIS B. JENKINS

Date:

2/25/64

SUBJECT:

STEVE MAGADDINO

AR

Set forth below is information furnished

by BU 280-c* on the dates indicated:

11/22/63

CI advised that he had observed the subject and

two other individuals, one of whom may have been DANNY

SANSANESE in conversation.

The individual who may have

been SANSANESE was relating that he had told an unidentified

person not to call anybody such names and this person mentioned

having something in his pocket..

SANSANESE related that he

had tuld this Individual it was a good thing he did not use

It because within a week

he would be dead.

He stated that

he told this individual he did not know what herwas saying

and did not know to whom he was speaking and that SANSANESE

would forget that he had

ever said it. MAGADDIN commented

that this individual "won't kill saybody."

MAGADDINO then

made some unintelligible comment in which he mentioned the

names JIMMY WALKER and

"the son of JOHNNy LONGO (phonetic).

1 - 92-273

1

1

D.

SANSANESE)

92-288

PETER A. MAGADDINO)

92-404

• (JOHN FELL)

• 137-

(Mrs. ROBERT JENSON)

1

92-57 (ANTONIO MACADDINO)

92-274

192-174(P. RATION

1 - 92-58 (J. LA DUCA)

1

-

92-19% (V. SCRO.)

1

- 92-278

(J. CAMMILLERI)

1

- 105

(LEE

HARVEY OSWALD)

1 - 92-61, Sub 5

EBU: Jmr

1231 pie

92-61-1085

I Searched.... Indexed..

' Serialized.. Filed...'

FEB 25 1964

FBI. BUFFALO

Lews SER

DocId: 32316233 Page 2

---

## Page 3

10346-10353

BU 92-61

Subsequently, an unidentified man was observed

with the subject

and PETER A. MAGADDINO and in whispered

conversation was

heard to ask PETER A. MAGADDINO for $1,000.

The subject and this man then engaged in a whispered, con-

versation which was not audible to the informant.

Iater when news of the assassination of President

KENNEDY was received, PETER A. MAGADDINO commented that a

person would have to

be a maniac to commit this assassination.

On 11/23, 24, and 25/63, CI furnished no pertinent

information.

Information furnished by informant on 11/26/63,

will be the subject of a separate memorandum.

On 11/27/63, CI advised that PETER A. MAGADDINO

had been observed with PETER (MACK) and that the latter

related that he had been in ew york City for two days.

MACK indicated that he thought he had been under surveillance

while on this trip and felt that on the plane coming back

someone had gone through his briefcase.

He pointed out that

he has gone by the Magaddino Memorial Chapel at intervals

around 4:00 or 4:30 a.m., and has seen a car with two men

in it apparently watching the chapel.

PETER A. MAGADDINO

agreed that the routine of the employees at the funeral

parlor is known.

Subsequently they were joined by JOHN

(FELL) who Indicated he had stopped by to wish the subject

a happy Thanksgiving.

A short time later the subject was observed with

FELL and PETER A. MAGADDINO at which

time he appeared to be

upset concerning a woman named JENSON. The subject also

made reference to the statetroopers.

FELL indicated that he

would check on the matter and after

apparently consulting

a telephone directory indicated that JENSON resides at

510 Dana Drive. After some conversation, during which

it was indicated the JENSONS

were attempting to sell their

home, the conversation turned to politics.

FELL indicated

that

the nexi time he might be asked to run for congress

and if he runs he will be elected.

- 2 -

DocId: 32316233

Page 3

---

