# docid-32301074

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

• Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10277-10409

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-155

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/29/1964

'PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, ASSOC, OBA, ACA, PLAN, BOMB, VESSEL, TRADING,

CUBA, JACKSON, EVERETT DENNIS, INFILTRATION,

PHOTO, MILITARY INSTALLATIONS, FINANCE, EQUIPMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32301074

Page

1

---

## Page 2

•M NO. 10

50104106-09

INITED STATES

ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

BY PROSE:

SUBJECT:

85

assified

Declassity

SECRET

Director, FBI (97-4474)

DATEIA HADCIOZOBJEATION TO

g8A, i and (205-2835) re

HEREIN IS

AtIL INFORAXION CONTAIDECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

EXCEPT WHER

LO CLASSIFIED RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

OTHERWISE

SHOWN

** IN THIS DOCUMENT, 5M 10197

MOVIMIENTO

INSURRECIONAL. DE RECUPERASION REVOLUCIONARIA

(MIRR)

IS = CUBA

titiat 10v=126660 (facia)

NM

REASON-FCIM

434:92-4819 (Burns

DATE DE

eterence Miam:

va Cats

8/31/64; Bureau airtels

9/2 and 10/1/64 to Miami.

Enclosed are 12 copies of a LHM dated "1

captioned as above.

ECLASSIFIED BY 5.6h8 su

for 1237181 CIA LTR.

open are being are enchated tocalis to out,

(CIA,

G-2, INS, OSI, Border Patrol, Customs, Coast Guard,

FAA and State Department, Coordinator of Cuban Affairs.

This LHM is classified SECRET - CONTROLLED

DISSEMINATION since it

so classified by CIA.

PA CISES FIGO PER

(9й)

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

LES

so realige

MM I-1 i8 CIA.,

STING

CLASS

824,326

3/2892

MM T-2 Is MM 974-S.

1.02-5-81

MM T-3 IS EVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ, Cuban source,

(И1)

CORY FILED IN

Miami

1S D: v/7.

ONT/OSI/ACSI /C

- MM 776-S.

N5 Induitor, Cuban effoua State.

T-3 1S WILLIAM JOHNSON, Miami.

LITATARIIA

For the

Information of the Bureau, on May 5,

1964, EVERETT

U DENNIS JACKSON, YMCA, Room 34, came to

NOV 12 Jot and was

the Miami

ce congerning his proposed trip to cuba

SEE'S

Subsequentl

-yo on October 13 UJ

92) (RM)

• Los Angeles

REC-

- 4470-15

(105-15991 EVERETT DENNIS JACKSON,

- Miami (1-105-2855)

9.1j-10.19510

I NOT

1 31964 (1-105-8919 JACKSON)

(1-105-1742

NAX.

(1-105-1729) (4-105-2209

'SANTIAGO PEREZ)

DocId: 32301074

Page 2

---

## Page 3

UNITES

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Ploase Refer so

File No.

MM 105-2855

CLASS.

& EXT

REASON-FOES II,

DATE

i OF REVIEW

OCT 2 8 1964

Pal Asthis and, Florida

82924

AINt YNFORYA

PION CONTAINOD

Hu SHORT

HERE?D:

BACE."

& SHOWA

OTHERW

MOVINIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLU-

CIONARIA (MIRR)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

• CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

DECLASSIFIGATIOT AND/OR

RELEASE OF CM. IN ORMATION

Previous investigation has reflected that the

IN THIS DOCUMENT. Jm 10-6-97

MIRB 18 an action group of Cuban exiles, headquartered in

Miami, under the leadership of DI. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA.

REPORT CONCERNING MIRR PLANS TO BOMB NEAR

THE PANAMA CANAL,. A VESSEL TRADING WITH

CUBA

un august 21, 1964, MM T-1, a federal agency which

conducts intelligence Investigations, reported having re-

celved Information from a local law enforcement agency,

well acquainted with maritime matters in Florida, that

ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA was trying to find a pilot to fly a

plane for the MIRR from an unidentified South American

•bombing & merchant vessel bound for Cuba. The strike

country close to the Panama Can 1, For the more of else

would take place after the vessel leaves the Canal CL

BE - CONTROLIID DISSEMTATION

sxcluded from automatic

lowngrading and

declass15 cation

2/2598 593 MACGAT (UFK

Classified by

иванки

Declassify on BADR 9/13/85

XEROS

NOV 1R 1964

DECLASSIFIED SY 5665 SLO/ER

Un assar

151-97.

(JEK).

thin

DocId: 32301074

Page 3

ENCLOSURS

1004-155

---

## Page 4

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

SECR

On September 9, 1964, MM I-2, a Cuban exile

who is well Informed concerning some anti-CASTRO acti

vities Keported that ORLANDO BOSCH had been consulting

lORINI, an American adventurer, who has previously

been layolyed in revolutionary activities, In order to ob-

tain a plane for use in making an air attack against Cuba.

MM I-2 said that FIORINI located a twin engine plane at

Cocoa, Florida, which he said could be purchased for

$18,000 and that BOSCH 1s reportedly attempting to secure

money for its purchase.

MM I? possessed no Information

Conces Can 1. Bulby BOSch to attack a boat near the

On September 15, 1964, MM T-3, who 18 acquainted :

with some of BOSCH's closest associates, reported that

ORLANDO RAMIREZ, one of BOSCH's action men, disclosed dur

ing the previous week that BOSCH was attempting to locate

an airplane for use in connection with a propaganda oper-

ation over Cuba. MM I-3 possesses no evidence that BOSCH

of any of his associates was planning to attack a vessel:

near the Panama Canal. (&(U)

CONCERNING MIRR OPERATION REPORTEDLY

SCHEDULED FOR SEPTEMBER 25, 1964

On September 26, 1964, MM Tol reported having

received information from an Individual who belongs to a

group of Cuban emigres trained in the techniques of in-

1964, JOSE RICARE CAREER, Pubite ReSentences

a Public Relations Chief

of the MIRR, disclosed that a new operation was being

sponsoted by the MIRi, Involving the services of a youre. y

CHISEST ORGANZUNIS

SECHEE

119/74

9803r0d/gel

DocId: 32301074 Page 4

---

