JFK Assassination System Date: 4/29/201
Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-90038-10029
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-4930-26
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: DL
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: — 07/18/1963
PAGES : 22
SUBJECTS :
JAMES HENRY DOLAN
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/27/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : RPT

vol

DocId:32325840 Page 1

21


DL 92-292

mation which may indicate subject and associates involved.
Will furnish identity of subject and associates to trust-
worthy law enforcement agencies, if deemed advisable, as
suspects in this robbery.

“AT GRETNA AND BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA

F will obtain. details concerning arrest. of subject on
4/14 and 17/63, at Baton Rouge and Gretna, and disposition of
same.

SAN ANTONIO

AT SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS

Will attempt to discreetly ascertain how alleged
finger man in contemplated San Antonio robbery was able to
ascertain that Texas Rangers .and local police officers were
aware of DOLAN's planned robbery and were waiting for him.

DALLAS

AT_FORT WORTH AND ‘ARLINGTON, TEXAS

eee
Will identify subscribers to Arlington telephone

CR 5-9463 and Fort Worth phone ED 2=5321. Will cause credit

and criminal checks to be made concerning thpse subscribers.

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

1. Maintain contact with trustworthy law
informants and sources of information concerning DOLAN's
activities. ae

2. In view of death of DIj’34-C, will attempt to
develop another informant who can furnish information concerning
DOLAN's activities.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Results of negative investigation conducted by
Dallas and auxiliary offices is not set forth in this report.

c:
Cover Page

Docld:32325840 Page 2


ae fo io 7%
ee ce

DL 92-292

R.A. BURROW, Chief Special Agent, Southwestern
Bell Telephone Company, was contacted 5/17 and 7/12/63, by
SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

INFORMANT COVERAGE

Presently being utilized by the Dallas Office are
the following informants who are believed to be in a position
to furnish information regarding the subject's activities
and associates:

DL 91-C;

DL 129-C;

DL. 170-C;

DL 172-C;

DL 185-C-TE;

DL 146-C; —

PCI WILLIAM SOLTES

Confidential Source R. A. BURROW, Chief Special
Agent, Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, Dallas, . Texas.

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

The following informants have all furnished reliable
information in the past, and careful consideration has been
given to each source concealed. T-symbols were utilized in
this, report only in those instances where the identities of
the source must be concealed. It should be noted that DL
34-C, who has furnished extensive information concerning
DOLAN, has recently died.

DL T-1 is DL 34-C, contacted by SA JAMES W. .BOOKHOUT.

Dt
Cover Page

Docld:32325840 Page 3
