# docid-32576616

## Page 1

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

PLAIN

FBI

Date:

3/11/65

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC, NEW YORK (92-2300)

LA

COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

Newark airtels to Bureau, 2/26/65 and 3/2/65.

The following are possible identifications of

individuals listed by nickname and aliases in the referenced

Newark airtels:

"Mike the Breeze" - This name is probably a misnomer.

Gambling activity in the Staten

Island, NY area today is controlled

by MICHAEL D'ALESSIO, aka "Mikey D".

D'ALESSIO is a nephew of ALEX

DI BRIZZI, whose name may have been

confused with that of his nephew,

MICHAEL D'ALESSIO. DI BRIZZI is

thought by reliable sources to be

relatively inactive at present.

Any gambling activity, according to

knowledgeable sources,

operate with the consent of the

D'ALESSIO brothers.

Bureau

(92-6054)

Newark

(92-1203

Sub 1)

- New York (92-2300)

LHM : pcs

(7)

EX-100

REC-26

92-60541008

MAR 1 2 1965

4146

58 MAR 23

• 1965

Approved:

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32576616 Page 1

---

## Page 2

NY 92-2300

RUDY (LNU) - May be identical with RUDY FARONE. NY

indices reflect that

during 1960-1961, CIB,

NYCPD, advised that information received

from a highly confidential source determined

that FRANK COCCHIARO,

with the assistance of

RUDY FARONE and "VADOO" GALLO, were involved

in selling telephone devices which were used

to thwart efforts of the NYCPD in locating..

bookmaking establishments.

"VADOO" - As set forth above, NY 2151-C has advised

that a "VADOO" GALLO (no relation to JOSEPH

"Crazy Joe" GALLO) is a close associate of

FRANK COCCHIARO and hangs out at COCCHIARO's

social club located between. 2nd and 3rd Streets

on 5th Avenue in Brooklyn, New York. NY 2151-C

described him as age 50, 5'6"

, heavy build,

greying hair, and has a brother, ANGELO.

2

r..

DocId: 32576616

Page 2

---

