of m on

Sidi meena 408 Pee is iz ate at iuctesedentenetet
ce
SAC, Philadelphia 1/29/65

Direstor, FBI

(é
LA COSA NOSTRA, aka :
AR ~ CONSPIRACY i
PHILADELPHIA, DIVISION ‘

Re Philadelphia letter to Bureau, ‘captioned,
"PH 672=C-TE, Confidential Informant," dated January 22, 1965,

A review of relet indicates that this informant,
a member source, has furnished identiti of several new
inembers of the.Angelo.Bruno "family" -o: €osa Nostra, both
in the Philadélphia and Newark Division: Those named were
“Blitz,” who formerly operated. as a guard a erap game
operated by the late Marco Reginelli; Ange: Turco, brother
of Vincenzo Turco; Tony-Kiva (ph):who. worked for Tony Bananas
(Anthony. Caponigro) and was apparently "made" in. Trenton; a é
Louie, said to wéar a dark shirt with a light tie, or vice all
versa,, gilso. connected with Caponigro; a "Cheese" or "Shoes"
in Riverside, New Jersey; a.Tom Mix; an individual known as
“Blizzard” in the: Chester, Pennsylvania area; Péter Casella's
cousin; also.named Peter Casella, of Vineland,.New Jersey, an
‘ld-time member who was set aside for telling his wife “too
much ;"_arlgsDominick,, a bartender in Joseph Rugnetta"’s bar,
who was inducted. ‘as a member on January 16, 1965.

a wo Res

Ew Sit is, evident that sufficient data has not yet
been déveloped or furnished: by this informant; however,
it- isSincumbent, upon you to immediately institute an Anti-
Racketeering investigation on each of the individuals named

7 in-accordance with instructions furnished the field in Bulet

to New York, dated 1/28/63, captioned,

"fhe Criminal Commission,
Et. Al. Anti-Racketeering =. Conspiracy."

P 2 + Newark.

MAILED 19)
| JAN29 1989

ie 7
Lactore, UT

ALA a
. ae FEB 2 1965 ~

‘MAIL ROOM TeLetype unt [_]

Docld:32576395 Page 1

