# docid-32585253

## Page 1

11-27-66)

Tolson

DeLoacr

Callahan

Conrad

Felt -

Gale

Rosen

Sulliv

Tave

Trotter

Tele. Room .

Holmes -

Gandy

DECODED COPY

AIRGRAM

I CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

XXXTELETYPE

8:23PM

EDST URGENT 6-9-66 ULV

TO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO

092130

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA. AT' 0O: COMICAGO.

RECHETETAINE

REMYTEL JUNE 9 INSTANT. (V)

CHICAGO 6443 - C - TE OVERHEARD DISCUSSION ON JUNE 4 LAST

BETWEEN IRVING

HORNSTEIN

Ve JEWELRY PENCE;

VEL SON STATE

"OF ILL., LIQUOR COMMISSLONER; ARTHUR

ZIMMERMAN, COOK COUNTY

ASSISTANT STATES ATTORNEY, AND COOK COUNTY CIRCUIT. COURT JUDGE

JOSEPH WOSIK DURING THEIR REGULAR SATURDAY CARD GAME AT

H AND H RESTAURANT, HOODLUM OPERATED RESTAURANT IN FIRST WARD

AREA OF CHICAGO "LOOP. CONVERSATION IN PART RELATED TO

RELEASE OF SAM GIANCANA.

COMMENTIMADE THAT

"LITTLE DICKIE,"

WHOM INFORMANT KNOWS TO BE MAYOR CHARD DALEX, SCREWED THIS

CASE UP FOR THE GOVERNMENT BECAUSE HE WAS. BEHIND EVERYTHING.:

DALEY. HAD BEEN CONTACTED AT LAKE

EX-103

REG 180

SHORE CONSTE

MAYOR, BY "OUTFIT" REPRESENTATIVES AND

ASKED WHEN

GOING TO DO SOMETHING.. OPINION OF INFORMANT DA FUN Y&5968M INDED

MR. DELOACH FOR THE DIRECTORLL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE4 -24-94_BYSP5R56/

FINe

41966

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32585253 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Rev: 4-27-66)

DECODED COPY

• AIRGRAM

CABLEGRAM

O RADIO XXTELETYPE

Tolson

De Loach

Mohr -

Wick

Casper.

Callahan

Conrad -

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter -

Tele, Room

Holmes

Gandy

PAGE THREE - CHICAGO - 092130

INFORMANT, WHO IS KNOWLEDGEABLE CONCERNING FIRST WARD

AND CHICAGO POLITICS, STATES D'ARCO ONE OF FEW PERSONS WHO

CONTACTS MAYOR DIRECTLY TO GET WHAT HE WANTS SINCE DALEY

SOUGHT AND RECEIVED HEAVY CONTRIBUTIONS FROM D'ARCO FOR

MAYORAL CAMPAIGN, (U)

BUREAU WILL BE ADVISED OF PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS U

RECEIVED: 9:45PM DLH

Shamepul!

CC- Mr. Kale

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32585253

Page 2

---

