# docid-32423655

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

2/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

DIA

RECORD NUMBER :

111-10004-10008

RECORD SERIES: TS NUMBERS FILE ACCESSION NUMBER 373-71A2021

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : TS-1018/PL

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DIA

FROM: WHITNEY RICHARD W

TO : DIRECTOR DIA

TITLE: SUPPLEMENT TO WEEKLY ACTIVITIES REPORT (3-9 JULY 1964)

DATE: 07/09/1964

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Declassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: CLEARANCE BY JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF

COMMENTS: Document outlines US military planning by CINCLANT as reported by the Organization of the Joint

Chiefs of Staff. Document appears to have been regraded from Top Secret to Secret at some time in

past.

Docid: 32423655

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET INFORM

COVER SHEET

CONTROL NUMBER S)

TION

INGLOSURES

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

TOP SECRET INFORMATION COVER SHEET

115-1018/PL

qjl 64

The attached TOP SECRET information

contains data

urity.aspect.o.f.

paramount;

ized disclosure of which would cause EXCEPTIONAL GRAVE DANGER TO THE NATION. Special.

care in the handling, cus.

tody, and storage of the attached information must be

exercised in accordance with

the

security.

regulations.

This cover sheet is NOT A RECEIPT but a record of persons

who have read a!l or any part of the documents) iden.

tified by number above.

Each

person receiving the attached TOP SECRET information shall sign and fill in the information required

below.

DATE

NAME

personnel. in the office of the

irector, Deputy Director, Chiei of

ta

and DIASC have had access

to

document.

RECEIVED

•RÉLEASED

REMARKS

(Indicare portions

and

all of documente

That.

Cut 1 of 3 ap

18

18

20

SD

FORM 194

AJAN 94

00/108-67

PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF TMIS FORM ARE OBSOLETE.

(When.

TOP SECRET INFORMATION

COVER SHEET

is

unclassified)

DocId: 32423655

Page 2

---

## Page 3

A 87 - E MAY 1962 EDITION

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

C. can TOP SECRET SENTINE

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

IS-1018/PL

Memorandum

TO : DIADR (ATTN: DIASC)

FROM : DIAPL

He are: 9 sur 2064

SUBJECT: Supplement to Weekly Activities Report (3-9 July 1964)

Provided DIA concurrence on J-3 Buff report on CINCLANI Oplan 319-64=

This plan provides for the overthrow of the government of Cuba by

application of US military force to

include:

Application of chemical/biological incapacitating agents to

reduce Cuban military capability to wage war;

b. Air strikes prior to introduction of US invasion forces;

c. Invasion of Cuba by US forces.

The intelligence aspects of CINCIANT's plan need updating; the buff.

report points this out.

This is the first plan prepared by a Unified or Specified Commander

that plans for the specific use of C/B agents.

CINCLANT, in the

orward to his plan, stated he did not favor the use of C/B agents.

The JOs, however, are directing that he proceed with the planning.

ACofS fo:

Gen

MESSA

001708-67

CLASSIFICATION GROUF 1

TO BE DOWNGRANED TO

TO BE DOWN GRADEO TO

ON

TO BE DOWAGRADE TO UNCLASSIFIED ON

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

LIMITED, DISTRIBUTION!

Tais document consists of -

Copy Na-1 of

A pagotale

Copies

11

GROUP-1

Excluded from automatic

dewngrading and

declassification

DocId: 32423655 Page 3

---

