JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

4/30/201

Agency Information

Released under the John F. Kennedy
AGENCY: FBI Assassination Records Collection act
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90113-10030 (44 USC 2107 Note).
Casef:NU 56792 Date: 04-11-2018
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 143-953-37
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: NO
TO: HQ
TITLE:
5
DATE: — 10/24/1966
PAGES : 11
SUBJECTS :
JACK WASSERMAN
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: — Consulted; 4; 10(a)2
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF EOUSA
COMMENTS : REFERRED TO EOUSA

v9.

HW 56792 DocId:32334238 Page 1


NO 143-118
REM: jas

é
f
ee dere, Aka... Mack » oie?

Sickle, "Red", Morris,

Sickle, N
listed as Casino Manager. eo
$decidadonisebetttamaet-toelick

On 9/29/66, the Columbia Division advised contact
with appropriate informants has failed to develop any infor-
mation regarding subject's possible business contacts or
connections in that area.

Departmental’ Attorney OWEN A. NEFF, New Orleans,
La.,.telephoned SA WILLIAM F, DUKES at Gulfport, Miss.,
on 8/30/66, and advised that, in view of the apparent
iaterest of CARLOS MARCELLO and. HASKELL JONES of New Orleans
in this matter, as indicated by their recent presence in
Biloxi, Miss., a conference would be desirable with Jackson
and New Orleans Agents to discuss this development. Mr. NEFF
requested that SA WILLIAM F. DUKES and WILLIAM DEAN JANSEN
of the Gulfport Resident Agency, Jackson Division, meet at
New Orleans on the morning of 9/1/66, with NEFF and SA's
REGIS L. KENNEDY and PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR. Mr. NEFF
advised that after conversation with USA ROBERT E. HAUBERG,
Jackson, Miss., a trial subpoena is being issued for ROBERT
aban ETT, Gulfport,_Miss., returnable 10/23/66. This~
subpo sérved on BENNETT 9/2/66, by Deputy USM SAM
PETERSON. é

.Attorney RICHARD B. GRAVES contacted SA WILLIAM F.
DUKES at Gulfport, Miss., 8/31/66, and expressed concern
about the background and possible ethics of Washington, D. C.,
ttorney SACRA SERA, GRAVES, who is a young, relatively
infexpérienced attorney with very little criminal practice,
volunteered that he had been in contact with WASSERMAN the
past week interviewing witnesses and preparing the defense
case. He stated he found WASSERMAN to be a highly intelli-
gent and capable individual who conducted penetrative inter-
views and who is apparently very expensive. GRAVES, who
furnished no additional specifics, inquired whether the FBI

would furnish him any information about WASSERMAN's background

which might resolve the question in GRAVES’ mind whether he
should continue to associate with WASSERMAN in this case, as
4

F

HW 56792 DocId:32334238 Page 2


‘ 143-118
EM: jas

he feels WASSERMAN is moving in "fast company." Mr. GRAVES
was informed that the FBI could not furnish him any infor-
mation whatever in this case and that he might desire to ~
direct any further inguiry in this regard to USA ROBERT E,
HAUBERG, Jackson, Miss., or the U. Ss. Department of Justice.

“ IN 238-PC, Biloxi, Miss., advised on 8/31/66, ) eet
at on about the night of 8/24/66, he observed CARLOS
\y yinnesrto having coffee at the Bel-Aire Motel, Biloxi, .

“ Miss. MARCELLO was accompanied by his lawyer/y JACK miss
WASSERMAN, as well as by JACK KRESS, "BUDDYUAROLLING and S———
HASKELL JONES of New Orleans. . The group discussed generally
recent Federal indictments of gambling, figures on the
Mississippi Gulf Coast, including KRESS of Tulsa, Okla.

It appeared the group was concerned, but that they felt they
would "beat" the case,

JN 238-PC advised that, so far as he knows,
MARCELLO has no business interests on the Mississippi Gulf
Coast and apparently was there on this occasion in the
interest of KRESS, who has retained WASSERMAN, MARCELLO’s
lawyer.

On 9/1/66, conference was held in the Office of
USA LOUIS C. LA COUR, New Orleans, La. Present: were USA
LA COUR, Departmental Attorney OWEN A. NEFF, SA‘’s WILLIAM F,
DUKES and WILLIAM DEAN JANSEN of the Jackson Division,
and SA's’ REGIS L, KENNEDY and PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR., of
the New Orleans Division. The foregoing information from
JN 238-PC, with informant's identity appropriately con-
cealed, was discussed as was information regarding contact
with and motions filed by Gulfport Attorney RICHARD GRAVES. :
NEFF and LA COUR advised that in the light of appaaat
current MARCELLO, JONES and WASSERMAN interest in/ YY .BENNETT
case, Bufile 162-287; NO File 166-203, they are considering
authorization of complaint and search warrant regarding JONES
at New Orleans on about 9/15/66, and presenting facts toa
Federal Grand Jury at New Orleans that date to shut off any

G “

HW 56792 DocId:32334238 Page 3


mY

NO 143-118
REM: jas

potential request for preliminary hearing by JONES following
arrest. JONES is subject in Jackson case captioned. HASKELL
F. JONES, dba Jones Brothers Parlor Supplies, 1204 Jeffer-
son Highway, New Orleans, La., ITGD, ITAR - GAMBLING; 00:

NEW ORLEANS, Bufile 143-953. -New Orleans Division following
this development and will advise the Bureau regarding specific
developments. Both USA LA COUR and Mr. NEFF advise that
sufficient probably cause for the arrest of JONES and search
of his business and residence in New-Orleans presently
exists, and instructed.that in the interest of security of
this potential arrest and search, no further direct inquiry,
concerning MARCELLO or JONES should be made at this time in
the Mississippi Gulf Coast area,

On 9/20/66, SA 538-C, whose identity is known
to the Bureau, advised that he has not been able to identify
a gambler by the name of JOHN W. ROY or JOHN W. RAY, and
again related he is confident that some Negro male has
ordered gambling material under a fictitious name. He added
that it is quite common for Negro gamblers in the vicinity.
of Central Texas to order "crooked" or "fixed" ecards or dice
under an alias.

PCI ROSIE NELL STELL, Aka., of Temple, Texas, on
9/20/66, informg@ she had been unable to identify JOHN W.
ROY or JOHN ws RAY as a gambler who may have ordered gambling
material from’ Jones Brothers Parlor Supplies in New Orleans.

Texts

t H*
(COVER PAGE)

is

az

HW 56792 DocId:32334238 Page 4
