# docid-32160410

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10139-10111

RECORD SERIES:

NY

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 44-974-66

Released under the John

• Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 45658 Date:

04-05-2018

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CLEMENTS, MANNING C.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/30/1963

PAGES: 936

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 44-24016-634

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

11/10/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/25/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

JFK Law 11(a)

REPORT, TABLE OF CONTENTS ON PAGES i-iii, INDEX ON PAGES aww

HH 45658

DocId: 32160410

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following criminal informants affillated or

familiar with gambling matters, Albuquerque Division, were

con-

tacted on November 25, 1963, with negative results:

AQ 175-C, Albuquerque, N.M.: by SA J. JEROME MAXWELL.

AQ 133-C, Albuquerque, N.N., bY SA J. JEROME MAXWELL.

PCI RALPH T. TRUJILLO, Albuquerque, N.M., by

SA JO JEROME MAXWELL.

AQ 128-C, Albuguerque, N.M.;

by SA CARY CARLTON®

AO 141-Ci Albuquerque:

DY SA STUART I. CAMERON.

AQ 181-C, Albuquerque, N.M., BY SA STUART J.. CAMERON.

PCI B. HOWARD THORNE, ROSWell, N.M., bY SA WILLIAM I.

EDDY•

PCI EDMOND ZUFFEREY, ROWell, N.M., by SA WILLIAM I

EDDY•

AQ 178-C, Grants, N.M., bY SA CALVIN D. KNOTT •

PCX E.. L. KEICH. CloviSi

N.M.i by SA FRANK W.. HAINES:

PCI KIT PETTIOREA, CLOVIS; N.M., bY SA FRANK W. HAINES

On November

25, 1963, AQ 204-C advised SA W. J.

WILKINSON, JR, Farmington, WAs, that she once met JACK RUBY

in an unknown hotel da

sexas, yary years ago. the

informant was unable to recall

the hotel or other people during

this contacte

Informant has never net victim.

-C-

Cover Page

HH 45658

DocId: 32160410 Page 2

---

## Page 3

?..

On 11/25/63, AD 195-70 advised SA STUARD

at Albuquerque, N.M., that approximately eleven montos

299

he met JACK RUBY at the Carousel,

club in pallas.

Informant met subs thcough JAce HAnDRE.

She's

and

wher she:

informant mentioned that he was Erom Albuquerque, husy advised

that LOU LEBBY at Albuquerque was a good friend:

The informant

learned through HARDEE that RUBy came to Dallas, Texas, from

Chicago and that a "Jewish boy" had the particular section of

town where the Caroused is now located "all sewed up."

Informant states RUBY had a difficult time breaking into the

area, but that he is now quite well off along with the "Jewish

boy," who also has a joipt located one block from the Carousel

in an upstairs location®

HARDEE mentioned to AQ 195-PC that RUBY had a "good

in" with the dallas police dept.

The informant states this

would be bore out from his observation by the fact that RUSY

had a B-girl operation where drinks

wese pushed heavily and

they had

no interference fron the solice department.

The

2a formant Knew of

spacifie connections with the police

department and only personally engaged 8USY in conversation

LOE

any Chicago underworld

the towed need connection e

Incorant stated he 18 not aware os

connections of RUBY or any subversive

or extremist

connecetors.

He did not know of any relationship

Between the

subject and

the lady flay for Cube Commitcee or

any association between COULD and NUBY.

- E-

couer. Page

HH 45658

DocId: 32160410 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 44peN

DI 441639

ADMINISTRATIVE

Flies of the chicate offles reflect the following:

"Chicago Daily Tribune" o1 December 9, 1939,

car-lee

artiole stating that MOHN MArTIN, President of the Scrap Iron

and

Junk Handlers Union Local 20467 AFL had shot LEON R, COOKE,

attorney for the above unions

According to forney CO 40.C,

the

interviewed at that bine,

the intorment was then

In

the process

oi tone & rival union arrillated with the c10 and

had written

several letters to junk dealers in this regard which

he had signed

"Coot":

MARTIN learned of these letters,

assumed he

was being

double crossed by LEON: COOKE,

and during

and COOKE which

an argument between MARTIN

ensued; MARTIN shot LEON. COOKE.

MARTIN then ber

came

a fugitive

justise.

Cover

Page

HH 45658

DocId: 32160410 Page 4

---

## Page 5

44: 1639

Chicago 6670-PD advised SA JCHU R. BASSETT on November 24,

1963 that he had been a close friend of subject RUBY for many years

in Chieago.

This Informant advised that "SPARKY" was hot tempered

on occasions, but was generally of a good disposition.

He stated

that RUBY was an excellent fist fighter.

RUBY, In the mid nineteen forty, a operated a "book over a reformat

located east of Kedzie Avenue on the north side of Roosevelt Road in

Chicago•

Subject was.

a close friend of one ABE ZUCKERMAN, also known

as "ZUCKIE" (phonetic).

In the middle nineteen forty's,

according to the informant, ZUCKERMAN was shot and the informant

belteved that this occurred because ZUCKERMAN did not eut LEONARD

PARTICK, one of Chicago's top hoodluns, In on the profits of his book.

Shortly after this shooting, PATRICK told the subject to leave town,

accusing him of operating a book without PATRICK's sanction.

PATRICK

warned the subject that if he did not leave chicago, he would "get

what ZuCkle got". the subject left chicago at this time for Dallas.

Texas; where he ran a club owned by his sister.

Informant advised

that he has not been in touch with the subjest

in recent years and

was completely at a loss to understand the subject's action In

shoot-

18g OSWALD.

ROSS PRIO, Chiago top hoodlum.

RUBY had been a

close friend of one JOE SCARAMUZZO who owns a gun

shop

on Halsted

Street near Taylor street In Chicago.

The Chicago Division records

contain no information con

cerning ABE ZUCKERMAN, a180 known as

"ZUCKTE"

The same records

refleet that JOSEPH SCARAMUZZO 18 the.

owner of scaramuzzo and Sons

Gunshop, 831 South Halsted Street, Chicago, Illinoiß. It should be

noted that three of the four guns

used by menbers of the Nationalist

Party of Puerto Rico In the shooting at the House of Representatives,

washington, D. Cog on March 1, 1954, were purchased by one WILLIAM

GAlutTy, Gary, Indiana: from Scaramuzzo and Sone, 301 South Halsted

Street, Chicago.

CG 0443-C advised SA JOSEPH G. SHEA On November 24, 1963.

that

he believed the subject was related

In some manner to one HARRY

RUBENSTEIN.

The informant advised that HARRY RUBENSTEIN had owned

the

Hotel. Olympic on North Clark Street on Chicago's near North side,

approximately fifteen years ago.

HARRY RUBENSTEIN killed a man In

this hotel, but by a payment of $25,000.00 to a Chicago Police Captain,

was able to fix this charge. According

to this Informant, HARRY

RUBENSTEIN had good connections with certain unknown criminals in the

Chicago area but was not considered by the Informant to be a member

of the Organized Criminal Element In this city.

It should be noted

that

the reeords of the Chicago Police

Department reflect one HARRY RUBENSTEIN,

'a hotel owner on the near

North side, as having been sentenced to one year probation on a charge

of manslaughter 1a 1946.

Over Page

HH 45658 DocId:32160410 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG. 6690-PO advised SA JOSEPH @.

SHEA On November 24, 1963s

that the subject was

related to HARRY RUBENSIEIN who formerly

operated

two of theee bars in

the subject worked as a bartender for HARRY RUBENSIEIN in a bar at the

GONE TOO HAY RUNE tO

According to the informants

Banker's Bullding In Chloage-X 100D

The Informant advised that In

1942 or 1943%

JACK RUBENSTEN attemped to entist in, the united states

Navy but was rejected when he failed to pass the physical

exanination.

The Informant described JACK RUBENSTEIN as extremely patriotic but

moody.

This informant was unable to furnist

or Intornation concerning

HARRY RUBENSTEIN's present whereabouts or actintles.

BERNARD OLICKMAN (Protect

Identity) advised

SA JOHN R. BASSETT

on November 24, 1963, that he does not mow the subject

GLICKMAN

advised that he had contacted a person known to him, whose identity he

would not reveal, who recalled the subject as a friend many years ago

I the area around Independence Boulevard and Roosevelt Road In Chicago.

According to GLICKMAN, this source stated that the subject was not

connected with the criminal elenent.

Chicago.

This source Indicated

that RUBENSTEIN was good natured but

occasion was

extrenely hot

tempered According

to this source, the subjest had left Chicago In

the late

1940%s

for Dallas,

Teras,

he operated a club belonging

to his sister.

GLICKYAN advised that he had made an unsuccessful

attempt to centact: ANTHONY ACCARDO in an

effort to obtain information

concerning the subject.

It should be noted that

ANTHONY ACCARDO 13 a high ranking

member of chicago's crininal element.

BERNARD CLICKMAN 18

known to

be a close associate of meny of chicago's top echelon criminals and

nasy in recent years, been active in

the

management of several ranking

prize fighters.

A11

other chicago incornats

negative and Chleago files

reflect no Information pertaining to subject's involvement with chicago

criminal element.

cover.

Page

NH 45658

DocId:32160410

Page 6

---

## Page 7

CG 44-645

DI. 44-1639

WER: 68h.

CG 6498-PC was contacted by SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER, on

11/25/63, but at that time had no personal knowledge of RUBY.

17/26/63, CG 6498-PC advised that he had solicited information from

politicians of the 24th Ward, the former voting residence of RUBY:

PC advised that he talked to two persons who appeared to know RUBY

from many years ago. They advised that RUBY was never anything but

"a punk" and never had any hoodlum connections or associations. One

person advised that he recalls that RUBY attempted to sneak into a

prize fight in chicago, believed to be the second DEMPSEY - TUNNEY

fight, and was caught by a police officer who beat him over the head

with his night stick.

As a result of this beating, RUBY now has a

plate in his head. Ayparently this causes pressure when RUBY becomes

excited and causes RUBY to act emotionally

NH 45658

DocId:32160410

Page 7

---

## Page 8

DI 44-1639/ cv

ADMINISIRATIVE

DN 249-C frequented Clover Bar rext door to Sherman Hotel,

Chicago, Illinois, 1946 to 1949. He described this bar as a hangout

for the hoodlum element.

At that time it was operated by IRA colliz

who was described as a personal friend of Colonel JACOB ARVEX, & well

known Chicago political figure. COtiz possibly was recently a

candidate for Alderman in Chicago and resides in penthouse apartment

on Michigan Boulevard.

The informant related JACK RUBY, whom he identified from

newspaper photographs, frequented the Clover Bar in about 1946 or

1947 and was an acquaintance of IRA COLITZ and possibly was a former

school mate of COLITZ on the west side of Chicago. He does not know

the nature of RUBY's activities in Chicago.

The informant stated that in about December, 1949, he was

in Dellas, Texas, at which time RUBY was operating a night club,

name unknown, with western band and western motif. The informant

visited this club and chatted briefly with RUBY who requested that

he convey RUBY's regards to COLITZ when the informant returned to

chicago.

The informant has not seen or heard from RUBY since 1949

and has never had any specific information concerning RUBY's back-

ground or activities but has never had any reason to suspect him

of being involved in subversive activities.

cover

er Page

NH 45658

DocId: 32160410

Page

---

## Page 9

DN 44-387

DL 44-1639

ADMINISTRATIVE

DN 295-C, who furnished pellable Information In the past,

furnished the following November 25, 1963:

As of one month

ago JACK RUBY was know to be an associate

of "PAPPY" INU. owner of "Pappy's Showland" la Dallas.

Basis or

extent of association ulow

DN 200-S and DN 215-S

who are cogni

zant of Comunist Party, Soelalist Workers Party,

Freedom for Cuba

Committee, and related

organizasions, advised on

November 25, 1963,

that they

do not know JACK LEON RUBY

OF JACK RUBENSTEIN. These

sources have furnished rollable information in the past.

All other

logical informants and PCI's Denver Divisios unable to furnish any

positive Information re JACK RUBY.

coder Page

HH 45658

DocId: 32160410 Page 9

---

## Page 10

HO 44-939:

DI 44=1639

CAB.eah

Houston

1125-0 advised SA LEVERLITE A. BAKER

03 11/25/63, he met JACK RUBY a number of years

ago

through ABE WEINSTEIN (PH), owner of colony Club, Dallas,

Texas, but knows nothing further concerning ruby.

Sp

rit

Couer Poge

NH 45658

DocId: 32160410 Page 10

---

## Page 11

LA 44-895

FHT: JME

Gambling Informants

Los Angeles Office

"POI NORMAN SIMON, on 11/25/63, could provide no

personal information about JACK LEON RUBY, aka, but he did

make avallable for interview by SA FRAnK H. TOWNSEND one

MORRIS BLOCK, 5510 Edgewood Place,

Los Angeles.

Information

from BLOCK or potential value, including the identity of a

knowledgeable Chicago friend, has been subiitied separately

by FD 302 and by eletype containing lead for Chicago.

Other informants who could provice no information

are:

# LA 3445-C on 11/26/63, to SA JOHN R. BARRON.

LA 3948-6 on 11/25/63, to SA FRANK H. TOWNSEND.

LA 4400-PC on 11/26/63 to SA JOHN R. BARRON.

LA 2:410-3-T0 on 11/25/63 to SA GEORGE E, BLAND.

•LA 4448-PC on 11/26/63 to SA JOHN R. BARRON.

POI JACK IRVING FOX On 11/25/63 to SA AMEDEE O.

RICHARDS, JR.

PÒI SAM FARKAS On 11/26/63 tO SA WILLIAM J, NOLAN.

PCI COSSIETT PALMER On 11/26/63 to SA TOWNSEND.

The following Irformants were contacted by SA

HOMER E. YOUNG

on 11/26,65 with negative results:

LA 3596÷0

PCI THERESA JEAN CUNDALI

IA 4218-0

LA 4221-C

Cover

Page

HH 45658 DocId: 32160410 Page 11

---

## Page 12

LA 44-895

FHT : JMF

PCI GEORGE COSTELLO

PCI WESLEY A. RUSELL

PCI RAY SOUTHCOTT

LA 4135-0 advised that she had been contacted by letter

from Dallas, Texas, by EARL NORMAN and his wife, CLAIRE BARTLETT,

who wanted informant to handle their bookings on the West Coast.

Informant advised that BARTLETT is a vocalist and understood she

had been working for JACK LEON RUBY in one of his night clubs in

Dallas. Informant stated that she 1s aware that EARL NORMAN left

Dallas on 11/21/63 for a booking into The Largo, a night club:

located on the Sunset Strip in Hollywood. Informant stated she

would Imagine that NORMAN's wife accompanied him. Informant said

she did not book this team since she did not have an opportunity

to audition them.

4135-C advised that the only bookings she handles

in the Dallas areafor strip tease dancers is through ABE WEINSTOCK

and his brother for their

two places and has never had any business

dealings with RUBY nor has she ever met him.

Cover

Page

HH 45658

DocId: 32160410

Page

12

---

## Page 13

NO 44-2064/Lav

INFORMANTS

NO 1238-PC who is a known associate of JOSEPH and

CARLOS MARCELLO, as well as JOSEPH PORETTO and who has been

a manager of the

he had hover tea are Ac

Town and Country Restaurant up until October

advised SA REED W. JENSEN on November 27, 1963, that

he had never heard of a JACK LEON RUBY Or a LEE HARVEY OSWALD

prior to their notariety in the connection

with the assassina-

tion of President JOHN F. KENNEDY.

The PC stated on examining

a photograph of LEE HARVEY OSWALD, NOPD number 112723, that he

bad never seen this individual in person before.

He said

he could not recall anyone who may have frequented the Town

and Country Motel who resembled this individual enough to

cause anyone to think this person might be OSWALD.

-X=

COVER PAGE

HH 45658

DocId: 32160410

Page

13

---

## Page 14

NO (44-2064) / sw

2

INFORMANTS CONTINUED -

On November 25, 1963;

SA LESTER G. DAVIS contacted

NO 1153 C, a homosexual who operates a restaurant in the New

Orleans French Quarter.

This informant advised he had never

known RUBY.

On" November 25, 1963,

NO 1205 C, operator of a

gambling

Louisiana.

This informant, who travels widely, had never met

ör heard

of RUBY until he saw RUBY on television on November

24, 1963.

On November 25, 1963, SA FURMAN G. BOGGAN contacted

NO 1227 PC, a former tavern operator, who is presently a pimp

and fencer of stolen property.

This

informant, who is originally

from the Chicago, Illinois area, advised that he did not know

RUBY and had never heard of him until he heard about RUBY on

television since November 24, 1963.

On November 25, 1963, SA RICHARD BUCARO contacted

NO 1209 C, a bartender and strip tease club manager, in the

New Orleans French Quarter.

never known RUBY or heard of him until he saw RUBY on television

since November 24, 1963.

On November 25, 1963, SA FURMAN G. BOGGAN contacted

PCI ANTHONY W. FREDO, a sports handicapper, who has traveled

widely throughout the United States. FREDO stated he had

never heard of RUBY until he saw the shooting of OSWALD by

RUBY on television on November 24, 1963•

On November 25, 1963, SA KEVIN J. HARRIGAN contacted

NO 1189 C, a New Orleans

French Quarter barroom operator, who

advised that he did not know RUBY and had never heard of

him

until November 24, 1963, when RUBY shot OSWALD.

On November 25, 1963, SA J. DAWSON VAN EPS contacted

PCI HOWARD D. BAUTSCH, a bookmaker in Jefferson Parish, and

PCI JOSEPH A. KUSS, a former bookmaker, who frequents gambling

establishments, and both advised they did not know tuss and

COVER

PAGE

HH 45658

DocId:32160410 Page 14

---

## Page 15

NO

(44-2064) / sw

3

INFORMANTS CONTINUED -

had never heard of him prior to November 24, 1963.

On November 25, 1963,

SA JOHN V. HANLON contacted

NO 1233 C,

tavern operator in Monroe,

Louisiana,

who

advised he did not know RUBY and had never heard of him

before November

24, 1963•

On November 25, 1963 SA JAMES FRANCIS WRIGHT contacted

PCI HARVEY MILLER, Sulphur, Louisiana, who frequents gambling

establishments. MILLER had never heard of RUDY prior to November

24, 1963.

On November 25, 1963, SA RICHARD A, SMALLWOOD

contacted PCIS MARCELLE DUHON, a professional gambler, MILTON

PONTIER, a bookmaker, THOMAS SKRNICH, a gambling club operator,

and JOSEPH DAVID, an employee of SKRNICH's, all of Lafayette,

Louisiana.

These individuals advised they had never heard

of RUBY prior to November 24, 1963, when they observed him on

network television.

NO 1229 C, a professional bookmaker, Baton Rouge, Louisiana,

advised SA EARL R. PETERSEN on November 25, 1963, that he had

never heard of RUBY prior to November 24, 1963, when he had

seen the shooting of OSWALD by RUBY on television.

Subsequently

on this same date, this informant advised that he had contacted

bookmakers ANTHONY EUGENE NOLAN, TAFITA HANIE Of Baton Rouge,

and they had not known RUBY.

SA PETERSEN also contacted PCI

JOHN SERIO on November 25, 1963, SERIO being an employee of

FRANK LEO VUCCI, another Baton Rouge bookmaker. SERIO had not

heard of RUBY prior to November 24, 1963.

SA PETERSEN also contacted GEORGE LA RUSSA and CHARLES

G. WALKER, bookmakers at the Candlelight Club in West Baton

Rouge Parish, Louisiana and these bookmakers had not heard®

of RUBY prior to November 24, 1963•

AA -

COVER PAGE

HH 45658

DocId:32160410 Page 15

---

## Page 16

DL 44-1639

The following investigation by Tampa Office:

TP. 94-C advised he located address book dated from

1945-48, and noted name NATE GROSSMAN, 5046 N. Troy St., Chicago,

Ill.

Source stated he is certain NATE GROSSMAN is identical

to TINY GROSSMAN mentioned previously.

Source now recalls meeting GROSSMAN in Chicago in

1948 or 1949, and GROSSMAN told him he had spent some time in

prison and in same conversation mentioned Flagstaff, Ariz.

Informant bas hazy recollection that GROSSMAN arrested Flagstaff

for Ildinois authorities and probably did time in Statesville

Prison, outside Chicago.

Source now recalls GROSSMAN tended bar and lived in

hotel above bar, located across the street from Croydan

Hotel. Croydan

located near Black Orchid Lounge, Chicago.

Same source recalls RUBY at one time ran errands

for one RAY LEWIS, a furrier, State Lake Building, 190 North

State St., Chicago.

LEWIS had a bookie operation on the side

and resided Maryland Hotel, Rush and Delaware Streets, Chicago.

Same source also recalls RUBY loitered about a barber

shop run by one AL INDES at the corner, or near the corner

of Clark Street, and Lake Street, Chicago.

carl tage

NH 45658

DocId: 32160410 Page

16

---

## Page 17

DI 44-1639

TP 94-C advised 11/25/63 he knew RUBY in Chicago by

reputation as ticket scalper along rush street and ruBY would

do anything for

a buck. Source states RUBY not known to hang

around racketeers but recalls

Que TINY GROSSMAN, a cab driver

source heard GROSSMAN did time at Flagstall, Ariz, for ticket

scalping.. Source also recalls one time RUBY badly beaten trying

to crash a fight program, Comiskey Park.

RUBy dropped

out of

sight in Chicago, 1948, no one missing him.

TP 11-C advised three years ago AGVA

female entertainer

complained to AGVA it was rough working in clubs in Dallas.

-FF=

Couer Por

NH 45658

DocId: 32160410 Page 17

---

## Page 18

DI 44-1639

The following informants

who have access to gambling

information in the Dallas area were contacted by SAs ROBERT M.

BARRETT and IVAN D. LEE on the dates indicated:

DL 170-- C

November 25,

1963

PCI BILLY H. MARTIN

November 24,

1963

PCI SAL DALY

November

26,

1963

PCI MIKE LESCHETSKO

November

25, 1963

PCI FRED MERRILL

November

DL 185-C-TE

26,

1963

November

PCI PHILLIP STEIN

November

24,

25, 26,1963

25, 1963

PCI JAMES SMITH SALE

November 25, 1963

DL 181-C-TE

November 25, 1963

None of the above informants had any information

that JACK RUBY, aka. was involved in any gambling activities

either as a player, bookmaker or gambler, during the time he

has resided in Dallas area - approximately fifteen years. RUBY

was known to the above informants as the operator of the Carousel

Club or Vegas Club, in Dallas.

-5S-

Cover Poge

HH 45658

DooId:32160410

Page 18

---

