# docid-32261442

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/6/201

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10106-10011

RECORD SERIES : NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 014138

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

STEELE, CHARLES

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 04/13/1978

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS:

OSWALD, LEE, POST RUSSIAN PERIOD, POLITICAL AND

SUBVERSIVE

ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

Unclassified

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/31/1996

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Box 251.

v9.1

NW 55923

DocId: 32261442

Page 1

1

---

## Page 2

014138

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

Io.

Identifying Information:

Name Charles rule,

Address 2119 Lelma de

city/State New deleaus; Ja

Date of Birth 11-5-:43

Social Security!

JEK Act 6 (3)

2. Physical Description:

Height

Weight

Ethnic Group

Date +

4-/3-7.8

Place.

Residence:

Mor S

Spouse®

Children

Color Eyes-

Hair

Special Characteristics

3.

4.

Personal History:

a. Present Employment: EBEW Local $/30

Address 1806 CaNaL 28- New Orleaus, da

Telephone

b. Criminal Record

1. Arrests

2. Convictions

Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s): Name

Address

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

Investigator Willion Brause, JEK

Date 4-19-78

NW 55923 DocId: 32261442 Page 2

Form #4-B

---

## Page 3

KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

NAME Charles Steele, Jr.

Address

2119 Selma St.

New Orleans, LA

Date 4-13-78

Place

Residence

Time

7 p.m.

Interview:..

(Synopsis).

Charels. Steele

passed out Pro-Cuba leaflets with

LHO:-

'Subject. refused. to answer questions concerning his

knowledge of LHO prior to passing out leaflets on Canal

st. He states he was inside of unemployment office on

Canal Street when he was approached by LHO and was.

offered $5.00 to pass out leaflets. He accepted the

offer and after passing out the first batch, read the

leaflets, stopped; collected his money and left.

The subject

said he didn't know the second male who was assisting,-

describes him as, white male, 20, light brown hair, medium

height and build, and brown eyes. The subject refuses to

answer when asked if he saw LHo again.

• ::

Subject states he was not a member of any organiza-

tion during this period. He identified photos #5, Clay Shaw

and #57, LHO. The photo book supplied by the committee

is numbered in sequential order from 1-110 with #72/73

missing.

Subject requests copy of his Warren Commission

testimony.

Interviewer

(Signature)

William Brown

(Name)

Date Transcribed 4/21/78*

_ by CS

(Ini

NW 55923 DocId: 32261442 Page 3

---

