JFK Assassination System Date: 5/21/201
Identification Form

iy. 7 Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90066-10009

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 63-4296-34-253

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE: — 12/30/1958

PAGES: 7

|

| SUBJECTS :

j CRIMDEL CRS

: SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
| RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

i COMMENTS : AT

i
i
f
i
1
1
i
H

|pocra:szaz7068 Page 1

vod 8


FD-36 (Rey. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

of

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

NY 94-1138 \

J S\ CHANBR, of West Haven, Connecticut
- TS of Elmwood, Conmecbiciit Z
me York Mirror® » 12/30/58, page ae :
Addendum of ‘Reporting SA:

An informant of the NYO (PCL SEYMOUR POLLOCK) advised
on 9/12/58 that one HARR: of Orange, Connecticut,
together withéthers, was attempting to obtain a New York=state
license to operate a flat racing track in the vicinity of
Rochester, New York, The new track has tentatively been

named the Finger Lakes. Park Association, according to the
informant. OSMAN has been making use of the informant's ~
knowledge of rack track promotion in his efforts to obtain
this license and set up the track.

According to the informant, an individual known as
“Joe. the Wop" has a definite interest in this yenture. (This
individual appears to be identical. with “JOSERPEATALDS, 2 aka, as
Joe the Wop, who is known to the NYO as asso et &
ANTHONY STROLLO, a Top Hoodlum of the Bureau). CATALDO “ts” Se

behind=the-scenes owner of Tony Pastor's Night Club in the
Greenwich Village section of .New York City.

The informant met with OSMAN on 9/22/58 at ‘
New York City,at which time the new track was discussed.

esent at this discussion was a young man known as
aia AC com

whose father is reportedly a millionaire i
anking and investment field at New York City. Also present

was an individual referred to only as LOUIE, whom the informant}

believed to be a Cuban, formant related that OSMAN is
dealing with one WAL’ \JEFFORDS, Jr, in connection with this
race track venture. 8 connected with the Brooklyn
Union Gas Company and his father is Chaitman of the Board of
the Greater New York Association, which controls all New * York

flat racing tracks, according to the informant. Informant}

-2-

Approved: Sent M Per

Special Agent in Charge

Docld:32327768 Page 2


FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

I

|

i

\

|

I

\

|

|

|

: I
Transmit the following in :
\

I

i

i
Ae

Date:
(Type in plain text or code)
Via
(Priority or Method of Mailing)

NY 94-1138

further related that OSMAN's lawyer, who is handling his
interest in connection with attempts to obtain this license,
is an individual known as RECAHANGTS ang described by OSMAN ;

as an ex-FBI agent. FRANCIS‘ ntains an office either in */ i
New Haven or Hartford, Connecticut, according to the inforiarity|

Also, in connection with prior discussions with
. OSMAN concerning this venture, the informant stated that
OSMAN told him that the individual who would bemst,
instrumental im obtaining the license for the race track
is CARM PIO, Tammany Hall political boss in New
York . OS) told the informant that DE SAPIO said to
clear any negotiations on this matter through "Joe the Wop".

OSMAN tried to get together with "Joe the Wop"
concerning this matter during the latter part of September,
1958, however, "Joe the Wop" told him that it would be
impossible as he had. to. leave New York City an, e in Havana,
Cuba for a very important conference with SALLY BURNS and a

number of other important people. memenieseinaaeects,

WL It, A noted that SALLY BURNS is the main alias
of ADC CRANNELLO, who is.well known to the NYO and the
Bureau, 8 prominently in the investigation to
locate former Top Ten Fugitive CARMINE DI BIASE.

i is a former SA of the Bureau,
who presently re n West Hartford, Connecticut, where

\ is engaged in the practice of law with Attorney.-SOUN, .

2 iS, According to recent information developed by e e
“New ih Office, FRANCIS enjoys a good reputation in the

fs
‘s {\community of West’ Hartford.

Approved: : Sent M Per
Special Agent in Charge

Docld:32327768 Page 3
