# docid-32340855

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10221-10248

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-72630-12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

NIS

FROM:

[Restricted]

TO:

[Restricted]

TITLE :

DATE:

06/30/1959

'PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

PDL, CUBAN AIR FORCE, RESIGNATION, COMMUNIST,

REVOLUTIONARY GROUP, PLANS, SMUGGLE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DIA

COMMENTS: INC TTY

v9.1

DocId: 32340855

5

Page 1

---

## Page 2

- James

ENCODE

TELETYPE

4-24-98

CLASSIFIED BY 5468 SCP/KSR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

URGENT

(JFK)

July 1, 1959

ONOR

AtI INTORMATION CONTAINED

EY GOT THEE SHOWN

i trie!.

Tolson

Belmont

De Loach

McGuire

Mohir

Parsons -

Rosen -

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan -

Tele. Room _

Holloman -

Gandy _

1el6614)

DECLASSIFY

TO SAC MIAMI

FROM DIRECTOR

FB}

PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ,

INTERNAL SECURITY DASH CUBA• REBUAIRTEL

JONE TWO FOUR LAST.

BUREAU IN RECEIFY OF INFORMATION ERROM NAVY

DEPARTMEN EAT DIAZ IANZ WE RESIGNED AS CHEST ON CURAN AIR FORCE

JUNE THEY ZERO LAST IS REPORTED ABOARD YACHT QUOTE BOUNTY SECOND

UNQUOTE EN ROUTE TO PORT EVERGIADES, FLORIDA. A

YOU SHOULD NOT L

BRACkETS

FACILITATE OR ENDORSE HIS ENTRI BUT MAKE ARRANGEMENTS WITH INS REMIN

TO BE ADVISED IN EVENT HE ARRIVES IN U.S. ON ARRIVAL, THOROUGH DIA 17.

DTD 10-1-97

INTERVIEW SHOULD BE CONDUCTED WHICH SHOULD FULLY COVER ALL ASPECIS

OF EXISTING CUBAN SITUATION, PARTICULARLY EXTENT OF COMMUNISI OF

SOVIET INFLUENCE IN CASIRO REGIME. IN ADDITION, YOU SHOULD OBTAIN

ANY DATA HE NAY FOSSESS CONCERNING STRENGTH AND PLANS OF

OPFOSITION EROUPS. LEGAT, HAVANA, ADVISED BY MATOS -72630-12

1- INCAT ANANA REC

TILEY

REC- 70

2á, cUi. P 1959

FEJ: JIW

(5)

JUL 1 = 1959

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAHON

U. S. DEPARIMENT OF JUSTICI

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION.

1:50PMWS

NOTE:

Bureau originally advised that Diaz Lanz was relieved of

his/ command as chief of Cuban Air Force after he had been sevérely

ENG OGORD

(SEE CONTINUANCE OF, NOTE PAGE

CODE ROOM

TELET VRONT

DocId: 32340855

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TELETYPE TO SAC, MIAMI

RE:

PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ

Juditis!

CONTINUANCE OF NOTE?

criticised by fidel Castro. According to Miami informant, he is

anticommunist and pro-U. S. He had persisted in preventing

haul castro from distributing and showing procommunist movies

to

members of his conmard.

In addition, he has been identified as an

underground member of the Crusade of Revolutionaries Against Communism

in Cubdo

Legat, havand,

cablegram 6/23/59 disclosed

the Air Attache

at ravand was handling plans to smuggle Dia: lana out of Cuba by

boate

Cablegram Olso Indicated that Air Force was contacting

as in washingtons Do Cos

to arrange his admission to the U. $.

(5) Laval message Nunber 34022 dated 6/30/59 disclosed that Dias Jona

nad resigned and was en route to U.S. aboard yacht "Bounty II." Xe

reletype used in view time element and unsectled conaitions in caribbean

ared.

BRACOIS REMAIN CLASSITIED

PER DIA IT. DTD. 10-1-97

NR.

_6/2707

ENC..

CK.

APPROVED BY

"TYPED BY

CODINO NAIL

!.i"

DocId: 32340855

Page

---

## Page 4

MAVAL MESSAGE

RELEASED 8Y

SECRET

NAVY DEPARTMENT

DRAFTED BY

EXT NA

TOR

30

JUNE 59

34622 (5)

01/06457

ROUTED BY

RITCHIE (S

CHE

302040Z

* DATE/TINE GROUP (ECO)

TO:

FROM: ALUSNA HAVANA] (5)

CNO J(5)

BRACKETED INTORmATION ONly

REMAINS CLASSIFIED PER DIA

LETTER DATED 10-1.

INFO:

CINCLANTFLT//COMCARIBSEAFRON//COMNB GTMO](S)

PRECEDENCE

CACT

I FLASH

PRIORITY

I ROUTINE

424-98

(JFK)

READDRESSED AS CNO $10551Z INFO DID GND//FBII(S)

*CHIEF CUBAN AIRFORCE PEDRO LUIS' DIAZ LANZ TODAY RESIGNED BY LETTER TO

PRESIDENT.

IN THIS LETTER HE DISCLOSED HIS FIGHT AGAINST COMMUNIST

INFLUENCE AND TOLD THE PRESIDENT THAT HE WAS ABOUT TO BE MADE SECOND IN

COMMAND SO THAT THIS COMMUNIST INFLUENCE COULD SPREAD. BELIEVE HE IS

ABOARD 43. FO0T YACHT BOUNTY I! ENROUTE VARADERO TO PORT EVERGLADES FLA.

AIR ATTACHE HAVANALON TOP OF THIS SITUATION. RECOMMEN D HIS TRAFFIC BE

DISSEMINATED,

_UP WILL CARRY FULL TEXT RESIGNATION LETTER TODAY..

DIAZ

LANZ

: HAD LARGE FOLLOWING OWTHIN AF OF REVOLUTIONARY GROUP AND AT PRESENT

TIME

RAUL CASTRO PERSONALLY HAS TAKEN CARE OF SECURITY MEASURES.

BEL (EVE

THIS RESIGNATION MIGHT HAVE RAMIFICATIONS AT LEAST TO EXTENT OF AWAKENING

IN CUBAN

PEOPLE THE PENETRATION. THAT HAS BEEN MADE BY COMMUNISTS IN ARMED

FORCES•

[ACTG ALUSNA OPINION, ](5)

RECOMMEND IF YACHT ARRIVES US THAT LANZ BE GIVEN GOOD TREATMENT AS HE HAS

ALWAYS BEEN PRO US AND ANTI COMMUNIST.

SGD

KLEPAK ACTG ALLUSNA](5)

*8l00

• COG (1→7)

1

AC

'ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE10-14-94 BYSIBMACIUA

SECRET

CHEN FILLED

IND

302040Z

PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED

EXCEPT PRIOR 10 CATEGORI

0792630-12

"B' ENCRYPTION-PHYSICALLY

REMOVE ALL INTERNAL REFERENCES BY DATE-TIME GROUP PRIOR TO DECLASSIFICATION.

NO UNCLASSIFIED REFERENGE IN THE DATE-TIME GROUP IS QUOTED.

105-nuw

DocId: 32340855 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NAVAL MESSAGE

RELEASED SY

SECRET

DRAFTED BY

TOR

JUNE 59

134622

NO.

01/0645Z

ROUTED BY

RITCHIE (S)

302040Z

DATE/TIME GROUP (GGT) T

FROM:

ALUSNA HAVANA(S)

CNO](S)

BRACKETED iNFORmAtION ONly

LEMAINS CLASSILED DEP DIL

LETTER DATED 10-1-9.

51D/KSR

INFO:

CINCLANTFLT//COMCARIBSEAFRON//COMB GTMO](5)

4-24-98

(JFK)

READDRESSED AS CNO @10551Z INFO DIE END//FBIJ(S)

NAVY DEPARTMENT

EXT NA

SDO NR

CHECKED

PRECEDENCE

(ACT)

1 RASH

D PRIORITY

I ROUTINE

LA DEFERRED

(INFO)

«CHIEF CUBAN AIRFORCE PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ TODAY RESIGNED BY LETTER TO

PRESIDENT• IN THIS LETTER HE DISCLOSED HIS FIGHT AGAINST COMMUNIST

INFLUENCE AND TOLD THE PRESIDENT THAT HE WAS ABOUT TO BE MADE SECOND IN

COMMAND SO THAT THIS COMMUNIST INFLUENCE COULD SPREAD. BELIEVE HE IS

ABOARD 43 FOOT YACHT BOUNTY I ENROUTE VARADERO TO PORT EVERGEADES FLAS

AIR ATTACHE HAVANALON TOP OF THIS SITUATION• RECOMMEND HIS TRAFFIC BE

DISSEMINATED. UP WILL CARRY FULL TEXT RESIGNATION LETTER TODAY •

LANG HAD LARGE FOLLOWING WIHIN AF OF REVOLUTIONARY GROUP AND AT PRESENT

THIS RESICGATTON PERSO MAVE RAMIFICEN ONE

CARE OF SECURITY MEASURES

BELIEVE

FORCESA PEOPLE THE PENETRATION THAT HAS BEEN MADE BY COMMUNISTS IN ARMED

ACTE ALUSNA OPINION. (5)

RECOMMEND IF YACHT ARRIVES US THAT LANZ BE GIVEN GOOD TREATMENT AS HE HAS

ALWAYS BEEN PRO US AND ANTI COMMUNIST.

S

GID

KLEPAK ACTG ALUSNA](S)

FBl9000

• COG (107)

ALL FBI INFO.C:

HEREIN IS UNGROFiLD

DATES 18-94 OYSp&MACLUA

2

PRNG NCSW-30

AC

SECRET

THEN FILLED INT

302040Z

ĐTG

PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED EXCEPT PRIOR TO CATEGORY "B" ENCRYPTION-PHYSICALLY

REMOVE ALL INTERNAL REFERENCES BY DATE TIME GROUP BRIOR TO DECLASSIFICATION.

NO UNCLASSIFIED REFERENCE IF THE DATE -TIME GROUP IS QUOTED.

DocId: 32340855 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NAVAL MESSAGE

HELEASED BY

SECRET

DRAFTED BY

NAVY DEPARTMENT

EXT NA

SDO N8

TOR

30

JUNE 59

[34622 (S)

FROM:

ALUSNA HAVANA](5)

Lo:

CNO J(5)

01/0645Z

ROUTED BY

RITCHIE](5)

CHECKED 2

302040Z

*TONE/TIME GROUS (GCTY)

BRACkETED INTORmiAtIoN ONly

REMAINS CLASSIFIED PER DIA

LETTER DATED 10-1-97

INFO:

CINCLANTFLT//COMCAR IBSEAFRON//COMB GTMO](5)

SID/KSR

4-24-48

(JFK)

PRECEDENCE

LACT)

LI FLASH

I PRIORITY

D ROUTINE

[I DEFENDED

READDRESSED AS CNO $I0551Z INFO DID GND//FBIJ(S)

#CHIEF CUBAN AIRFORCE PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ TODAY RESIGNED BY LETTER TO

PRESIDENT. IN THIS LETTER HE DISCLOSED HIS FIGHT AGAINST COMMUNIST

INFLUENCE AND TOLD THE PRESIDENT THAT HE WAS ABOUT TO BE MADE SECOND IN

COMMAND SO THAT THIS COMMUNIST INFLUENCE COULD SPREAD. BELIEVE HE IS

ABOARD 43 FOOT YACHT BOUNTY I ENROUTE VARADERO TO PORT EVERCLADES FLA

CAIR ATTACHE HAVANATON TOP OF THIS SITUATION. RECOMMEN D HIS TRAFFIC BE

DISSEMINATED. UP WILL CARRY FULL TEXT RESIGNATION LETTER TODAY.

LANZ HAD LARGE FOLLOWING WTHIN AF OF REVOLUTIONARY GROUP AND AT PRESENT

TIME RAUL CASTRO PERSONALLY HAS TAKEN CARE OF SECURITY MEASURES®

BELIEVE

THIS RESIGNATION MIGHT HAVE RAMIFICATIONS AT LEAST TO EXTENT OF AWAKENING

FORCES•

NO PEOPLE THE PENETRATION THAT HAS BEEN MADE BY COMMUNISTS IN ARMED

LACTG ALUSNA OPIMION.(5)

RECOMMEND IF YACHT ARRIVES US THAT LANZ BE GIVEN GOOD TREATMENT AS HE HAS

ALWAYS BEEN PRO US AND ANTI COMMUNIST.

SCID KLEPAK ACTG ALUSNA] (5)

FBle.••

0 COG (107)

ALI. FBI INTC..

HEREIN IS URULUO.c

DATE4S-18-44_0Y5pkmac/ur

ERNENCSTSE

AC

SECRET

ONE FILLED INS

302040Z

PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED EXCEPT PRIOR TO CATEGORY "B" ENCRYPTION PHYSICALLY

REMOVE ALL INTERNAL REFERENCES BY DATE TIME GROUP PRIOR TO DECLASSIFICATION.

NO UNCLASSIFIED REFERENCE IF THE ORTE-TIME GROUP IS QUOTED.

DocId: 32340855 Page 6

---

## Page 7

NAVAL MESSAGE

RELEASED 8Y

SECRET

DRAFTED BY

DATE

30 JUNE 59

34622 }S)

NO.

TOR

01/0645Z

ROUTED BY

RITCHIE (S)

302040Z

"DATE/TIME GROUP (GCT)")

FROM:

TO:

ALUSNA HAVANA](5)

CNO] (E)

BRACKETED INFORMATiON ONlY

ROMANS CLASSIFiE PER DIA

LEtTER DATED I0-

SLD/KSR

INFO:

CINCLANTFLE//COMCARIBSEAFRON//COMB GTMO](5)

4-24-98

(JFK)

TREADDRESSED AS CNO 810551Z INFO DID GND//FBI](S)

NAVY DEPARTMENI

EXT 198

SOO NR

CHECKED E

PRECEDENCE

(ACT)

I FLASH

UNFO)

00

ICINEDIAT

I PRIORITY

¿ ROUTINE

I DEFENDED

*CHIEF CUBAN AIRFORCE PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ TODAY RESIGNED BY LETTER TO

PRESIDENT• IN THIS LETTER HE DISCLOSED HIS FIGHT AGAINST COMMUNIST

INFLUENCE AND TOLD THE PRESIDENT THAT HE WAS ABOUT TO BE MADE SECOND IN

COMMAND SO THAT THIS COMMUNIST INFLUENCE COULD SPREAD. BELIEVE HE IS

ABOARD 43 FOOT YACHT BOUNTY ENROUTE VARADERO TO PORT EVERGLADES FLA.

AIR ATTACHE HAVANALON TOP OF THIS SITUATION. RECOMMEN D HIS TRAFFIC BE

DISSEMINATED. UP WILL CARRY FULL TEXT RESIGNATION LETTER TODAY..

LANZ HAD LARGE FOLLOWING UWTHIN AF OF REVOLUTIONARY GROUP AND AT PRESENT

TIME RAUL CASTRO PERSONALLY HAS TAKEN CARE OF SECURITY MEASURES.

BELIEVE

• THIS RESIGNATION MIGHT HAVE RAMIFICATIONS AT LEAST TO EXTENT OF AWAKENING

FORCERAN PEOPLE THE PENETRATION THAT HAS BEEN MADE BY COMINISTS IN ARMED

(ACT ALUSNA OPINION,](5)

RECOMMEND IF YACHT ARRIVES US THAT LANZ BE GIVEN GOOD TREATMENT AS HE HAS

ALWAYS BEEN PRO US AND ANTI COMMUNIST.

SHD

KLEPAK ACTG ALUSNA] (5)

+81000

• COG (1-7)

TALL FBI INFORMATION CONTANEO

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIRIDO

DATE10-18-94 BY528MACIVA

ARNONCSW-SO

AC

SECRET

WHEN FILLED IN

302040Z

DIG

PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED EXCEPT PRIOR TO CATEGORY "B" ENCRYPTION-PHYSICALLY

REMOVE ALL INTERNAL REFERENCES BY DATE TIME GROUP PRIOR TO DECLASSIFICATION.

NO UNGLASSIFIED REFERENGE IF THE DATE-TIME GROUP IS QUOTED.

DocId: 32340855 Page 7

---

## Page 8

NAVAL MESSAGE

RELEASED BY

DATE

30

SECRET

DRAFTED BY

TOR

JUNE 59

34622 ](5)

01/0645Z

ROUTED BY

RITCHIE ](S)

302040Z

(DATE TIME GROUP KGCT))

FROM:

TO:

ALUSNA HAVANA(S)

BRACTED INTORmatIoN Only

CNO](5)

ROMAINS CLASSIFIEO PER DIA

LETTER DATED 10-1-97

CINGLANTFLT//CONCARIBSEAFRON//COMB GTMO] (5) 4-2uk 98

(JFK)

READDRESSED AS CNO Q1$551Z INFO DID GND//FBI (5)

NAVY DEPARTMENT

EXY NA

SDO NR

CHECKED

PRECEDENCE

LACT

LI FISH

PRIORITY

C ROUTINE

DEFERRED

(ENFO)

*CHIEF CUBAN AIRFORCE PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ TODAY RESIGNED BY LETTER TO

PRESIDEN• IN THIS LETHER HE DISCLOSED HIS FIGHT AGAINST COMMUNIST

INFLUENCE AND TOLD THE PRESIDENT THAT HE WAS ABOUT TO BE MADE SCCOND IN

COMMAND SO THAT THIS COMMUNIST INFLUENCE COULD SPREAD. BELIEVE HE IS

ABOARD 43 FOQT YACHT BOUNTY !! ENROUTE VARADERO TO PORT EVERGLADES FLA.

AiR ATTACHE HAVANAJON, TOP OF

THIS SITUATION. RECOMMEN D HIS TRAFFIC BE

DISSEMINATED.

UP WILb

CARRY FULL TEXT RESIGNATION LETTER TODAY..

DIAZ

LAN HAD LARGE FOLLOWING WIHIN AF OF REVOLUTIONARY GROUP AND AT PRESENT

TIME RAUL CASTRO PERSONALLY HAS TAKEN CARE OF SECURITY MEASURES.

BELIEVE

THIS RESIGNATION MIGHT HAVE RAMIFICATIONS AT LEAST TO EXTENT OF

AWAKENING

IN CUBAN

PEOPLE THE PENETRATION THAT HAS BEEN MADE BY COMMUNISTS IN ARMED

FORCES. '

(ACTE ALUSNA OPINIONO)(S)

RECOMMEND IF YACHT

ARRIVES US THAT LANZ BE GIVEN GOOD TREATMENT AS HE HAS

ALWAYS BEEN PRO US AND ANT COMMUNIST•

SCID KLEPAK ACTG ALUSNA](S)

1810000

• COG (17)

'ALL FEI INFONMATION

HEREIN IS UNCLASSITND

DATE 6-18 19481.508 MAGISA

AC

SECRET

WHEN FILLED IND

302040Z

ĐTE

PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED EXCEPT PRIOR TO CATEGORY "B" ENCRYPTION-PHYSICALLY

REMOVE ALL INTERNAL REFERENCES BY DATE-TIME GROUP PRIOR TO DECLASSIFICATION.

NO UNCLASSIFIED REFERENCE IF THE DATE -TIME GROUP IS QUOTED.

DocId: 32340855 Page 8

---

