JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

5/7/2015

‘Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90024-10017
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 92-3171-1178
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: CG
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 08/14/1963
‘PAGES: 7
a SUBJECTS :
SAM GIANCANA
SAMUEL M. GIANCANA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact :
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 03/10/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS ; TT

v9.1
DocId:32323993 Page 1

367


N EkAL LUREAD OF HivEsTIGANWA
ou DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE @
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
AUGL 41963 a

TELETYPE

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 92-3171
FROM SAC, CHICAGO 92-349 7- P

SAMUEL ME’ GIANCANA, AKA., AR. DAILY SUMMARY
CG SIX FOUR NINE EIGHT DASH PC ADVISED THIS DATE al ‘
IN RECENT CONTACTS WITH PERSONS CLOSE TO SAM GIANCANA HE

HAS LEARNED THAT A GENERAL FEELING OF APPREHENSIVENESS
ane

PERVADES THE GIANCANA ORGANIZATION. FEW REMARKS ARE BEING

MADE BY ANY OF THESE PERSONS AS TO THEIR OPINIONS REGARDING

WHAT GIANCANA PLANS TO DO IN THE FUTURE IN REGARD TO THE

RUNNING OF THE CHICAGO CRIMINAL ORGANIZATION. THIS INFORMANT

ADVISES THAT GIANCANA IS GIVING NO DIRECTIONS TO HIS

UNDERLINGS AND AS A RESULT THE GENERAL SITUATION IS IN A

STATE OF CHAOS. IT IS POINTED OUT THAT ADDING TO THIS

GENERAL STATE OF CONFUSION GIANCANA HAS ABSENTED HIMSELF

FROM THE ones esgonte THE PAST Thx Soa B60 Chl f-S/ iP

HAS GIVEN ad INDICATION AS TO WHEN HE WILL RETUR
DEbY Ob M2ucEe

TO THE REASOWS FOR ETANCANAS S LEAVING THE CHIGAGD Breay $YS 26 1963
henge d >
WAS LEARNED FRow PCI ROBERT MC DONALD, WHhel®) cEpst ies —-

END PAGE ONE”

|» © Savy 11963

' Docla: 32323993 Page 2



"

PAGE TWO

MANY OF CHICAGO-S HOODLUMS, THAT GIANCANA-S DEPARTURE
Co ence ee

WAS CAUSED BY A FEAR THAT THE FBI WOULD REINSTITUTE THE

_ recent ne IE PORES
SURVEILLANCE UPON HIS DAILY ACTIVITIES AND WOULD AGAIN

ERR OO E T AE et hare

ee
LEAVE HIM IN A POSITION WHERE HE WOULD BE UNABLE TO GO

tr aati pt SSMS SLE TOGRE TTI BEER ST ET

Saaeerea a
ABOUT HIS DAILY ACTIVITIES IN AN UNHAMPERED | MANNER «

renee weet ane pgeps a ane TPES RACE HEARN IS

ACCORDING TO Mc DONALD, GIANCANA, IN CONVERSATION WITH
OTHER HOODLUMS, HAS INDICATED THAT HE IS CONSIDERING
een

LEAVING THE COUNTRY WITH A POSSIBLE.DESTINATION BEING
EN iA EIT ioasnaaniniididabaaemaiaiail
BRAZIL. THE CHICAGO DIVISION FEELS THAT THIS INFORMATION

HAS SOME MERIT BASED ON THE COMMENTS OF MURRAY HUMPHREYS

MADE IN THE PAST THAT GIANCANA SHOULD ATTEMPT TO DO
EVERYTHING IN HIS POWER TO GET AWAY FROM THE FBI SURVEILLANCE
AND TO REMAIN IN SOME LOCATION WHERE SUCH SURVEILLANCE

COULD NOT BE REINSTITUTED. IT IS-FELT THAT A STRONG
POSSIBILITY EXISTS THAT A RECENT MEETING HELD AT STALEYS
RESTAURANT BY NINE OF CHICAGO-S LEADING HOODLUMS WAS

PROBABLY FOR THE PURPOSE OF DECIDING HOW GIANCANA SHOULD
GOVERN HIMSELF BASED ON CURRENT HAPPENINGS. IT IS FURTHER
END PAGE TWO

DocId: 32323993 Page 3



PAGE THREE
FELT HIGHLY LIKELY THAT A DECISION WAS MADE IN WHICH IT
WAS RECOMMENDED TO GIANCAN THAT HE LEAVE cHrcaco. &

MC DONALD CONTINUED THAT BECAUSE OF RECENT PUBLICITY
ATTENDENT UPON THE HOODLUM SITUATION IN CHICAGO MARSHALL
CAIFANO IS ALSO MAKING PLANS TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY. MC DONALD
ADVISED THAT ASIDE FROM THE GENERAL CONSTERNATION CAUSED BY
THE GIANCANA SITUATION IT HAS BEEN LEARNED BY THE HOODLUMS
THAT INTERNAL REVENUE IS REPORTEDLY GOING TO INDICT THREE
CHICAGO HOODLUMS SOMETIME PRIOR TO THE END OF THIS YEAR. ~

JTHE NAMES OF THESE HOODLUMS ARE UNKNOWN THEREBY CAUSING
A GREAT DEAL OF ANXIETY AMONG AT LEAST A HALF A DOZEN OF
THE LEADING HoopLums. &

CG SIX FIVE EIGHT EIGHT DASH PC, A CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF

| PHIL ALDERISIO, ADVISED THAT ALDERISIO STATED TO HIM ON

AUGUST THIRTEETNH LAST THAT QUOTE IF MY NAME GETS IN THE
PAPERS ON THIS THING ANYMORE I-M GOING TO GET OUT OF HERE

FOR AT LEAST THREE MONTHS AND TURN EVERYTHING OVER TO YOU UNQUOTE. 4
END PAGE THREE

DocId: 32323993 Page 4


PAGE FOUR
ON AUGUST FOURTEEN INSTANT THIS SOURCE FURTHER ADVISED
THAT ALDERISIO STATED THAT RECENT NEWSPAPER PUBLICITY
HAS VISIBLY SHAKEN ALDERISIO WHO IS CONVINCED THAT FEDERAL
ACTIVITY IN CHICAGO AREA AND RESULTING PUBLICITY IS PRELUDE
TO NUMEROUS FEDERAL INDICTMENTS. HOODLUMS BELIEVE PURPOSE
OF PUBLICITY TO SWAY PUBLIC OPINION AND FAVOR FUTURE FEDERAL
PROSECUTIONS. 4 ;
SAME SOURCE ADVISED JIMMY ALLEGRETTI TOLD SOURCE’ THAT
ALL BRANCHES OF FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ARE WORKING TOGETHER
AGAINST SYNDICATE AND POINTED OUT RECENT FAST ACTION OF
SUPREME COURT IN CIANCANA MATTER WAS A QUOTE WORLD-S RECORD
UNQUOTE. ALLEGRETTI TOLD SOURCE QUOTE THE FEDS REALLY MEAN
BUSINESS NOW AND THIS INCREASED PRESSURE AND PUBLICITY
IS HURTING THE OUTFIT UNQUOTE. CHICAGO IS FOLLOWING THIS MATTER
CLOSELY.
CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C WHO IS IN DAILY CONTACT
WITH LESTER KRUSE AND ONE WILLIAM MC GUIRE, A LIEUTENANT
IN KRUSE-S GAMBLING ENTERPRISES, ADVISED THAT ACCORDING TO
END PAGE FOUR

‘y
SS
Id:32323993 Page 5


%

PA

Se FIvE
KRUSE THE FBI-S ACTION AGAINST CAMBLING IN NORTHERN ILLINOIS
ela daLieceet ah RRR ALLS oa alate

nearer eacrcten SUITE

HAS WRECKED THE KRUSE OPERATION TO THE EXTENT THAT OVERHEAD

Nara et Ets 2 CE AR MIEN TICE OR SEN AS IB TES SE TSI LET

ON BUILDINGS FORMERLY USED FOR GAMBLING. PURPOSES » NI NOW. W STANDING
panainiaotTte ee st MOR TIT at
IDLE, | IS COSTING USE A AN HIS "ASSOCIATES, A. QUOTE, SMALL FORTUNE

SN re coreraTARGNE AI: amen

- UNQUOTE. GAMBLING EMPLOYEES OUT OF WORK FOR THE PAST SEVERAL

pence

MONTHS ARE NOW BROKE AND CLAMERING FOR JOBS FROM THE KRUSE
ORGANIZATION. THE ORGANIZATION TO DATE HAS REFUSED TO PAY
THESE PEOPLE EVEN THOUGH THEY HAVE BEEN LOYAL EMPLOYEES

FOR OVER TWENTY YEARS, AND HAS BEEN UNABLE TO FIND JOBS

FOR THEM IN LAS VEGAS OR ELSEWHERE. KRUSE ADVISED CG SIX
FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C THAT AS HIS ILLINOIS GAMBLING REVENUE
IS PRACTICALLY NON EXISTENT REVENUE FROM OTHER KRUSE
ENTERPRISES MUST BE INCREASED. ON AUGUST THIRTEEN LAST CI
ADVISED THAT WILLIAM MC GUIRE REPRESENTING KRUSE-S INTERESTS
HAD A MEETING WITH CARL LNU WHO REPRESENTS TAYLOR AND COMPANY
AND HUNT AND COMPANY, MANUFACTURERS OF DICE AND GAMBLING

END PAGE FIVE

ocld: 32323993 Page 6

