# docid-32297707

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10219-10483

HQ

100-30067-99, 100

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, SF

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/31/1959

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

JOP, REL, EMP, DESCR, PASSPORT APPLICATION, TRA,

FINANCES, ASSOC, CP ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC A/T, LHM, MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32297707

Page

1

16

---

## Page 2

•.0

CONT

Liaison

Mr:

Coll

SECREL

NEC- 77

200-30057 — 99

100-333702

Date:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/CR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT CMB

4/14

11/80/97

CLASSISED BYS668 552

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

EY COORIER SUO

AUG 1 0

To:

Auguệt T, 1959

Office of Seourity

Department of state

ATT INTORMATION CORTAINE

WORDINIE UNOLASSYYTED SU

SidE SHOWN OTHERWISE

Fron:

Subject:

John Edgar Hoover, Director

JOHN PITIMAN

SECURITY HAITER • C

702

1oI4a4n

>o Me

MARGARSTE ADLER PITILIAN

reclasshiv

wado kate

5772

IS -C

Enclosed for each recipient of this letter are a

mèmorandum concerning John Pittman and a memorandun concerning

Margarete Adler Pittnan.

This matter has been referred to

the

Legal Attaches in London, Home and Bonn for contact with [S

appropriate security services to receive any pertinent infor

mation they may develop regarding

the subjects whtle they are

traveling in the areas covered by the legal Attaches. However,

this Bureau would appreciate any pertinent infornation that

your Department lof the Central Intelligence Agency may receive

regarding

the

subjects in other countries. where they may

trarele

Upon removal of the classified enclosures,

this

tran ittal letter becones unclassified.

Enclosures (2)

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

~ Director

Central Intelligence Ageney (Enclosures 2)

COMM. FBI

Tolson

Belmont

De Loach

McGuire

Mohr -

Parsons

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

..C. Sullivan -

Attention; Deputy Director, Plans

1

1

1

2

2

- London (Enclosures

• 2)

(SEE NOTE, PAGE

- Rome (enclosures

SEE

NOTE, PAGE

- Bonn (Enclosures

SEE NOTE, PAGE

Angeles (100-45664)

PAGE

- San Francisco (100-1465 COq 42386 JUSTE NOTE, PAGE ?)

1 - Foreign Liaison

unit (route through for revie a

EBI - 021CE

(14)

5'0 AUG 1 8 1959 see page 2 potilote on yellow.

- MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32297707

Page 2→

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENFIAL®

Office

. of secr

ty

Départment of

State

ATTENTION: LEGAL ATTACHES LONDON, ROME, AND BONN AND SACS

LOS ANGELES AND SAN FRANCISCO

Enclosed for each Legal Attache are a memorandum

concerning John Pittman and a memorandum concerning Margarete

Adler Pittman.

Legal Attaches are requested to alert theirds

sources and place appropriate stops with them. Any information

coming to the attention of Legal Attaches conterning travel plans

of subjects to countries other than those covered by Legal Attaches

should

Immediately be furnished to Central Intelligence Agency: C

Advise the Bureau of any pertinent information received in this

matter. Sources may be furnished information contained in thes

enclosed

memoranda except the information indicating that Pittman

as the correspondent for "The Worker.

Margarete Pittman is a

key figure, San Francisco Office origin, and John Pittman 1s on

the Security Index of the Los Angeles Office.

SACS, Los Angeles and San Francisco remain alert for any

additional information concerning the travel abroad by subjects

and immediately advise the Bureau in form suitable for dissemina-

tion.

NOTE ON YELLOW:

Enclosures are two letterhead memoranda dated July 31, 1959

State and CIA have previously been furnished reports concerning

subjects. Letter classified confidential as enclosures are so

classified. Enclosures classified confidential as they contain

information obtained from confidential informants, the unauthorized

disclosure of which could reasonably result in their identification

and compromise future effectiveness thereof.

Legal Attaches

are being advised nottto furnish sources the information concerning

Pittman's possible trip to Moscow to serve as the correspondent for

as this information has been obtained only from

NY 694-SI#and CG 5824-S*, higher placed informants:

This informa

any other source, and 1y is

belleved that this information should not be furnished to sources

overseas in an effort to further protect the identity or these

• Informants.

-2. -

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRETI

DocId: 32297707

Page 3

---

