# docid_32289238

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: ' FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10201-10014

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3182-17

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

ROEMER, WILLIAM F. JR.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/17/1958

PAGES:

71

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

GAL, BKG INVEST

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 45679

DocId: 32289238

Page 1

173

---

## Page 2

krin

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

CHANGED

GUSCHIEY,

was. Gust Alex,

use ayal, slin ideas!

Mike Ryan, "Slim"

D,

6-17-58

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/28; 6/2,3,4/58

REPORT MADE BY

WILLIAM F. ROEMER, Jr.

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED EY

ntb

ANTI-RACKETEERING

SYNOPSIS:

P1:-1

SUMMARY REPORT

ALEX was born in Chicago, Ill. He holds no known legitimate employ-

ment. He claims to be married to MARIANNE RYAN, well-known Chicago

model, but marriage not verified.

and now lives at 4300 No. Marine

Resided in Chicago all his life

ALEX is an associate of

many of the top hoodlums in Chicago area, particularly of EDDY

VOGEL. ALEX was formerly the bodyguard of JAKE GUZIK, Influental

Chicago hoodlum, now deceased.

man" of GUZIK and then

He. later became the "right hand

in Chicago.

"enforcement officer" of the crime syndicate

Upon GUZIK's|death in 1956, ALEX reportedly took

over GUZIK's position in the syndicate and today reputedly controls

Chicago's "Loop" and South Side.

ALEX has been questioned as a

suspect by the Chilçago PD in connection with many gangland type

crimes and is known to the Chicago PD as a "tough, capable of the

heavy work for the syndicate"

labor activities and gambling.

• ALEX also involved in 1llegal

Reputed to have financial interests

in tavern, barber shop, liquor company, ranch, hotel and amusement

arcado.

Many of his hangouts known.

Icast three times. Employes

Has traveled in Europe at

bodyguard-chauffeur. Physical

APPROVED

PECIAL AGEN

1 CHARG

COPIES MADE

3.

= Bureau

1

-

Detroit (92-324) (INFO)

1

- Los Angeles (92-177) (INFO)

2

New York

4 - Chicago (92-373)

GILO DESIAOYED, CC ut to file

SO E MAY 24 1972

10.

3-61

per Olive • Crip

ICCNT84440

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

47-318217

MCT • 17

23 JUN 19 1958

-

REG 87

PROPERTY QF. FBI.-This report's loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

NW 45679 DocId:32289238 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG

92-373

INFORMANTS

1. 6271-0

13/13/58 to SA LENARD A. WOLF.

This informant has furnished

reliable

information in the past

and is an associate of certain

henchmen of the subject.

T-2

Local Draft Board No. 80,

4/14/44, as reviewed by SA WILLIAM M.

Selective Service System,

KELLY.

2319 South Wentworth Avenue,.

Chicago, Illinois

1-3

CG 5733-0

In 1950 to unknown agent, and on

12/27/57 to SA ROBERT J.

DENEEN.

CG 5733-C is not personally acquainted

with. ALEX or his associates and

obtained this information through

contact. with small-time hoodlums.

He has furnished reliable infor-

mation in the past.

In 1946 to unknown agents.

I-4

Inspectors L. B. MC NALLY

and R. E. SHALLBERG,

Alcohol Tax Unit,

Chicago, Illinois

T -5

CG 5973-0

3/14/58 to SAs C. LEONARD TREVI RANUS

and WILLIAM F. ROEMER, Jr.

8/13/54 to, SA TREVIRANUS.

This informant is a friend of ALEX

and of ALEX's wife and has furnished

reliable information in the past.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

= 58=

NW 45679 DocId: 32289238

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-373

T- 6

PCI

T -8

Mrs.

LOUIS (LULU) LE VITUS,

828 West Cuyler

Avenue,

Chicago

(Upon request)

THOMAS MC. GANN,

2222 West Giddings Street,

Chicago, Illinois

(Upon request)

T-10

NELS NIELSEN,

Postal Carrier,

Assigned to

Evergreen Park,

Illinois

Post Office

Contacted on a regular basis

since 3/25/58 by SA ROEMER.

This PCI is an elevator

operator at ALEX's_residence,

4300 North Marine Drive,

Chicago, and has furnished

reliable information in the

past.

Contacted on a regular basis

since 3/3/58 by SA ROEMER.

This PCI is an elevator

operator at ALEX's residence,

4300 North Marine Drive, and

nas furnished reliable info

mation in the past.

3/5/58 to SA ROEMER.

This source is a former

employer and a friend of ALEX's.

wife.

Her reliability is

unknown but most of her info-

mation has been corroborated

by other sources.

6/2/58 tó SA ROEMER.

This source is an elevator

operator at ALEX's residence,

4300 North Marine Drive.

His reliability is unknown.

3/4/58 and 3/28/58 to SA.

ROEMER.

This postal carrier serves

ALEX's mailing address.

OTHER 4

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 59 .

NW 45679

DocId: 32289238

Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-373

T-15

Mrs.

THELMA PATCH,

Former Bookkeeper,

Murray Hill Apartments,

4300 North Marine Drive,

Chicago, Illinois

(Upon request)

T-16

PCI JAMES RINI

Ta 6i32-0

T-18

POI

ROBERT FESTENSTEIN

3/50 to unknown agents, Chicago

Office, and 5/19/58 to SAs

PAUL B. FRANKFURT and ROEMER.

Mrs. PATCH is a former

bookkeeper

at the Murray Hill Apartments

where she knew EDDY VOGEL and

GUS ALEX.

Her reliability is unknown, but

some of her information has

been

confirmed by other sources.

5/1/58 to SA PAUL B. FRANKFURT.

This PCI is a lieutenant.of

EDDY VOGEL, an

associate of

ALEX.

He has furnished reliable

information in the past.

1/3/58 to SA WILLIAM J. MC

CORMICK.

Informant has furnished reliable

information in the past.

1/16/58 and 6/5/58 to SA ROBERT L.

BAKER.

This PCI is familiar with

activities of lesser known

, hoodlums in Chicago.

Informant has furnished reliable

information in the past.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 61 .

NW 45679 DocId: 32289238

Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG 92-373

T-]

PCI

T-20

JOSEPH LEB OWITZ,

Midlothian Country Club,

Mialothian, Illinois

(Upon request)

T-21

Former CG 5809-0

12/6/57 to SA JAMES P.

BRODERICK, and on 1/19/58

to SA JOSEPH G. SHEA.

PCI is not acquainted with

ALEX but with lesser

hoodlums.

PCI has furnished reliable

information in the past.

/8/46; 5/12/46; 6/7/46:

7/16/46; 8/30/46 and 9/10/46

to As DELBERT L. WOOD and

RALPH J. O'CONNOR.

This source has furnished

reliable information in the

pastitoo, "was a bookmaker in

of. Chicago and. an

associate of many people on

the fringe of the syndicate in

Chicago, including JAMES M.

RAGEN, Sr.,_ TOM BOURKE,

President, Illinois Newspaper

Association; DANIEL A.

SERRITELIA, Political Leader,

Chicago Police Department

officials and others who had

apparently reliable infor-

mation regarding hoodlum

activities in the Chicago area.

He is no longer active in the

bookmaking business.

3/15/56 to. SA FRANCIS J.

STEFANAK.

This source was familiar with

hoodlum activities in the

Chicago area, but is not

believed to know ALEX personally.

He furnished reliable information

in the past.

He is no longer an

informant of this Office.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 62.0

OTHER 4

NW 45679 DocId: 32289238 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CG 92-373

T-27

Former PCI DOMINIC ABATA

T-28

PCI

-

1-29

CG 6218-6

T-30

Miss EILEEN EDGAR,

Clerk, Illinois Bell

Telephone Company,

Chicago, Illinois

2/1/56 to SA WALTER E. PETERS.

This source was not believed

to be acquainted with ALEX;

but was acquainted with

lesser hoodlums.

His

reliability is unknown.

2/26/58 to SA HAROLD D. SELL.

This source does not know.

ALEX but knows several lesser

hoodlums.

He has furnished

reliable information in the

past.

3/19/58 to SA VINCENT L

INSERRA.

This informant works in a

handbook operated in AlEX's

district on the near south

side

of. Chicago by an associate

of ALEX.

in a position to

He 19% obtain

the refore,

information by hearsay regarding

ALEX:

He has furnished

reliable information in the

past.

3/26/58 to Investigative

Clerk JOHN E. WHALEN.

OTHER 4

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

33

NW 45679 DocId: 32289238 Page 7

---

## Page 8

CG 92-373

1 ∞ 24

Sergeant MICHAEL A:

SERRITELLA, former

Chief of

olice, now

Sergeant,

Evergreen

Park,

Illinois

Police Department

(Upon request)

T-25

Sergeant PATRICK O'CONNOR,

Chicago Police Department,

Robbery Detail

(Deemed

advisable)

I-26

CG 5951-0

3/5/58; 4/15/58 and 5/30/58

to SA ROEMER.

This source grew up near

ALEX on the near south

side of Chicago and now

lives two blocks from the

residence of ALEX's mother

in Evergreen Park, Illinois.

He knows ALEX well, con-

verses with him from time

to time and also knew

JAKE GUZIK and other

associates of ALEX. His..

reliability is i known.

and most of his information

has been corroborated by

other sources.

3/12/58 to SA LENARD A.

wOlfo,

This source has been an

officer on the Chicago

Police Department for

many years.

He has

furnished reliable infor-

mation in the past.

12/27/57 to SA ROBERT J.

DENEEN.

This source does not know

ALEX but is acquainted with

several lesser hoodlums

in Chicago.

He has furnished

reliable information in the

past.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

= 65

32

NW 45679 DocId:32289238 Page 8

---

## Page 9

CG 92-373

Immigration and Neturallyation

Files, as furnished by INS

Investigator JOHN J. BURKE

T=32

JIMMY HARAKAS,

Los Angeles PCI

12/16/57 to Investigative

Clerk FRANCIS G. KAH.

T- 33

ANTHONY GAMBINO,

Joliet Penitentiary

(prisoner)

(Upon request)

11/29/55 to SA JOHN J.

CANNY of the Los

Angeles Office.

This PCI knows ALEX

slightly but not well.:

His reliability is

unknown.

5/22/58 to SA JOHN J.

OITZINGER.

This source has been close

to numerous small time

hoodlums in the Chicago

area and the information

he furnished, contained

herein, came directly

from an associate of

ALEX.

His reliability

is unknown.

LEADS

THE CHICAGO DIVISION

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS -

Will continue to conduct investigation regarding

the current activities, etcetera, of GUS ALEX in conformance

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGEREVIEWED BY SENJFK TASK FORCE

ON 10/16/95 dat

- 66 -

I RELEASE IN FUEL

• RELEASE IN PART

•• TOTAL DENIAL

NW 45679 DocId: 32289238 Page 9

---

