# docid-32575016

## Page 1

Philadelphia (92-558)

11/7/58

Director, FBI (92-2918)

SAMUEL MANNARINO

GABRIEL MANNARINO, WAS.

Re Pittsburgh aictel 10/29/58.

Philadelphia expedite leads in reairtel inasmuch as

Gabriel Mannerino has apparently been hiding out

since attendance

at the Apalachin meeting, November, 1957•

6 - Pittsburgh

12=

92-228)

2-

92-236

1-

92-226

(1-

137-68)

Tolson

Nichols

Boardman

Belmont

Mohr -

Parsons

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

Nease

Tele. Room

Holloman .

Gandy

MAIL ROOM

1-92-2914

IGL: AOB gall

(11)

42

. Ай 66

MAILED 31

NOV 7 - 1958

CACHES

REC- 61

BUNUV. 14 19557483133

UNNECOADED COPY FILED LI

DocId: 32575016

Page

1

---

## Page 2

FBI

DATE:

10/29/58

Transmit the following in _

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2918) (92-2914)

RE:

SAMUEL MANNARINO, was.;

Pittsburgh

Enclosed for the assistance of Philadelphia is one photograph

each of Pittsburgh top hoodlums GABRIEL MANNARINO, FBI

No. 854850, and SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, FBI No. 96725.

For the benefit of Philadelphia, PG 545-C, who has furnished

considerable information concerning subjects' legitimate

enterprises particularly real estate transactions involving

SAM MANNARINO, advised during 2/58 that SAM MANNARINO during

early 1957 mentioned he had purchased a hunting lodge gurrounded

by 200 acres of land.

At the time PG 545-0 understood

MANNARINO to say the lodge was located in Somerset County, Pal,

and extensive investigation has been conducted to date in an

effort to identify the hunting lodge since several sources

here believe the lodge would be an excellent hide-out for

GABRIEL MANNARINO, who disappeared from New Kensington, Pa.,

/ Bureau

92-29101

REC- 46

3-

92-2914)

92-2912-65

- Philadelphia (92-55o)

(Enel. 2)

- Pittsburgh

(2-92-228

20 NOV & 1958

2-92-236

1- 92-226

(1-137-68)

RGD : bC

(15)

poiroved

SAC

NOV 101930

890

Sent

Per

DocId: 32575016 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG. 92-228

PG 92-236

during 12/57 to avoid being served with a subpoena before.

a Federal Grand Jury in the Southern District of New York

inquiring into the significance of the conference of

hoodlums at Apalachin, New York, 11/14/57. As a matter of

information, Senator JOHN MC CLELLAN, Chairman of the U. S.

Senate Select Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor

or Management Field, has issued statements to the press that

he considers GABRIEL MANNARINO one of the most important

witnesses yet to be heard by the committee.

Since MANNARINO's

disappearance from New Kensington in 12/57 various reports

have been received that MANNARINO and LA ROCCA are hiding.

out together.

In connection with efforts to identify the location of the

hunting lodge PG 545-0 on 10/28/58 learned through JACK

KRUPA, a New Kensington, Pa., councilman and life-long friend

and hunting companion of the MANNARINO brothers,: that sAM

MANNARINO's hunting lodge is not located in Somerset County,

Pa., but is actually a twenty room farm house generally

referred

to as a hunting lodge surrounded by approximately

200 acres of densely wooded land in Pennsylvania near the

Pennsylvania-Maryland border approximately a fifteen minute

drive by automobile from Hagerstown, Maryland. PG 545-0

was unable to obtain any additional identifying information

because of the likelihood of arising KRUPA's suspicions.

Examination of available maps of the area indicate that

the hunting lodge must be located in Franklin County

probably in

the general vicinity of Waynesboro and

Greencastle, Pa.

PG 545-0 also recalled that he was in SAM MANNARINO's office

at the Ken Iron and Steel Company, New Kensington, during

12/57, when the press and radio carried the first

accounts:

of MANNARINO being called before the Federal Grand Jury

in New York. Informant stated that while he was at the

office Deputy Marshals were attempting to locate GABRIEL

MANNARINO when his brother SAM recéived a phone call from

GABRIEL MANNARINO and hurriedly told him

"They are trying

to serve you with a subpoena, take off for the brush.

PG. 545-0 said that in view of MANNARINO's prolonged

disappearance it seems logical to assume that 1f SAM

MANNARINO's remarks were interpreted literally his

advice "take off for the brush"

could have been his subtle

DocId: 32575016 Page 3

---

## Page 4

FG 92-228

PG: 92-236

way of telling GABRIEL to hide out at the hunting lodge.

With respect to background information concerning the lodge

or farm house near the Maryland border PG 545-C pointed

out that KRUPA who has been a frequent visitor to the location

told him that SAM MANNARINO has several four wheel

drive. trucks and other heavy equipment parked on the

property that are used from time to time by some of the

local residents. Informant said that according to KRUPA

the general

area is thickly populated with whiskey

stills and that local game wardens are reluctant to

enter the area apparently because some of them have been

mistaken for ATU Agents and fired upon by moonshiners.

PG 545-0 also developed from KRUPA that occasionally while

on hunting trips with SAM MANNARINO they would stay in a hotel

in a nearby town (possibly Waynesboro) instead of sleeping

over night at the farm house.

Philadelphia through Recorder of Deeds for Franklin County,

Pa, attempt to identify the 200 acres of land and hunting

lodge owned by SAM MANNARIN®.

The property is probably

recorded in MANNARINO's name, however, if county records

fail to disclose desired information check names of the

following who in the past have been used as legitimate business

fronts by MANNARINO:

ROSE MANNARINO (wife)

VICTOR and MINNIE CARLUCCI (son-in-law and daughter)

GENEVIEVE MORENO (SAM MANNARINO's private secretary)

KATHLEEN MORENO (secretary's daughter)

JACK KRUPA

If property recorded in Franklin County records obtain

brief legal description, volume and page number where

recorded and examine Pennsylvania Transfer Tax Stamps

attached to deed in order that sale price may be

computed.

- 3 ÷

DocId: 32575016 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG

92-228

PG 92-236

In addition Philadelphia at Waynesboro, Pa., and vicinity

near the Maryland border display photos of GABRIEL MANNARINO

and sources to do ate the wanted do can setter

MANNARINO and LA ROCCA are hiding out at that location or

have been there in the past six to ten months.

should the lodge be located extreme caution should be used

while making inquiries in that vicinity in view of information

developed by PG 545-c indicating possibility that game

wardens have been fired upon in the past.

RECORDS OF THE PITTSBURGH POLICE. DEPARTMENT DISCLOSE

SAMUEL MANNARINO ARRESTED IN 1931 AS A SUSPICIOUS PERSON

AND FOR CARRYING A CONCEALED WEAPON.

GABRIEL MANNARINO IS

SAID TO CARRY A SMALL CALIBER GUN AND WAS ARRESTED IN 1943

FOR CARRYING A •38 CALIBER REVOLVER.

CONSEQUENTLY, BOI

MEN SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

LA ROCCA HAS BEEN CONVICTED OF ASSAULT WITH INTENT TO

KILL AND ARRESTED FOR CARRYING A CONCEALED WEAPON; CONSEQUENTLY,

SHOULD, BE CONSIDERED ARVED AND DANGEROUS.

- 4

DocId: 32575016

Page

---

