# docid-32297461

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10219-10237

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2914-297

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

FORSYTH, THOMAS G. III

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 07/26/1963

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

GM, SMO, REL, SLJ, GAMBLING ACT, BUSS, REL, BKG

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32297461

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

PG 92-236

ADMINISTRAT IVE

During the period of this report, close liaison

has been maintained with Special Agents of

the Intelligence

Division, IRS, Pittsburgh,

investigation

concerning

pa.,

who are conducting an

subject's

activities.

This report has been

sightly delayed due to the

preoccupation of the preparing Special Agent with other

Important investigative matters and also due to an intra-squad

reassignment of cases.

The Spectal Agents who participated in the physical

surveillance on 6/27/63, reported herein, were WILLIAM B.

ANDERSON, JR., M. JAMES KRUSCHKE, JAMES B. FANNING, THOMAS G.

FORSYTH, III

and ROBERT A. VOEGE.

INFORMANTS

T symbols utilized in this report will be the

sad inhure taco 1/28/those used in reports back to

PG I-2 is PG 612-C

PG I-4 IS PCI ANTHONY JOHN WISE, JR.

PG T-32 is PG 640-CTE

PG T-35 is PCI GENE HOWARD MC CUTCHEON

PG T-39 is PG 657-CTE

PG I-49 is PCI NICK VIGNOVIC, Duquesne,

Who furnished information to SA SAMUEl A. MILLER.

-B*-

COVER PAGE

DocId:32297461

Page 2

---

## Page 3

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

July 26, 1963

GABRIEL MANNA RINO

ANTI- RACKETEERING

Reference is made to the report of Special Agent

THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III, Pittsburgh, dated July 26, 1963.

There follows a brief characterization of informants

used in

referenced report.

PG T-2 is an individual who has had wide activities

for at least twenty years in the fields of prostitution and

gambling in the Newkensington, pa., area.

PG I-4 is a Pittsburgh, Pa., business man, whose

business activities frequently bring

him in contact with

racketeers in the New Kensington, Pa., area:

PG T-32 1s a business man in Mercer County, Pa.,

who has a life-time association with gamblers and racketeers.

• PG T-35 is an individual who has worked in numerous

racket setups in Westmoreland and Allegheny Counties, both

Pennsylvania.

PG T-39 is a gambler and club operator in Pittsburgh,

Pa.

PG T-49 is an individual who is engaged in a

legitimate enterprise and who has resided in the Mckeesport

area all of his life, where he has had close association

with individuals engaged in gambling and illegal activities.

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the BI. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

its

contents

are not to be distributed outside your

agency.

DocId: 32297461 Page 3

---

## Page 4

L*.

PG 92-236

ADMINISTRATIVE

During the period of this report,

/close liaison

has been maintained with Special Agents of the Intelligence

Division, IRS, Pittsburgh, Pa.,,

who are conducting an

investigation

concerning subject's activities.

This report has been slightly delayed due to the

preoccupation of the preparing special Agent with other

important investigative matters and

l also due to an intra-squad

reassignment of cases.

Ine special Agents who participated in the physical

surveillance on 6/27/63, reported herein, were WILLIAM B.

ANDERSON, JRO, M. JAMES

KRUSCHKE, JAMES B. FANNING, THOMAS G.

FORSYTH, III

and

ROBERT A. VOEGE.

INFORMANTS

I symbols utilized in this report will be the same,

where applicable,

as those used in reports back to, and

including,

that of 7/28/61.

PG T-2 is PG/ 612-C

PG T-4 IS PCI ANTHONY JOHN WISE, JR.

PG I-32 IS PG 640-CTB.

PG I-35/iS PCI GENE HOWARD MC CUTCHEON

PG I-39 1S PG 657-CTE

• B*.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32297461

Page 4

---

## Page 5

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

July 26, 1963.

GABRIEL MANNARINO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Reference is made to the report of Special Agent

THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III, Pittsburgh, dated July 20, 1963.

There follows a brief characterization of

Informants used in referenced report.

PG I-2 1s an individual who has had wide activities

for at least twenty years in the fields of prostitution and

gambling in the New Kensington, Pa., area.

€ I-4 is a Pittsburgh, pa., business man, whose

business

activities frequentry bring him in contact witt

racketeers in the New Kensington, Pa., area.

PG T-32 1s a business man in Mercer County, Pa.,

who has a life-time

association with gamblers and racketeers.

PG T-35 is an individual who has worked in numerous

racket setups in Westmoreland and Allegheny Counties, both

Pennsylvania.

PG T-39

As a gambler and club operator in Pittsburgh,

Pa.

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of the fBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned

to your agency; it and its contents are not

to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32297461 Page 5

---

