# docid-32309677

## Page 1

--

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10300-10043

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 92-5215-2, 1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

LINKER, NORBERT R.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/23/1961

PAGES:

75

SUBJECTS :

APR, ASSOC, LOCAL 560, ELECTION, CRIMINAL ACT, LOAN,

US GLASS AND CHEMICAL INC.

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC ADMIN PAGE, RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32309677

3

Page

1

---

## Page 2

20-263 10ey. 3-1-991

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NSTARK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

DATE

5/23/61

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

4/10 - 5/15/61

REPORT MADE BY

CHANGED

NORBERT R. LINKER

CRIMINAL

CHARACTER OF CASE

INFLUENCE IN INTER-

NATIONAL

BROTHERHOOD.

TEAMN SR.

LOCAL 560, UNION

NEW JERSEY

0-

The title of this report is marked changed to reflect

the captioned local's address as Union City, lo.

It has

been determined that though on the borderline of Union city,

the local's offices at 707 summit Avenue are in the corporate

limits of Unton CIty, N: J.

REFERENCES

Report of SA JOHN E. BURKE dated 3/24/61 at Newark.

Washington Flold airtel to the Director dated 4/26/61 captioned

JOSEPH ARTEUR ZICARELLI, aKA, ARE

TYPED BY

eng

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

Efforts to determine the feaslbility of a highly

Jersey City have been underway since 4/10/61.

Newark is presently conducting & Labor Managément

Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959 Investigation concerning

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

3/-

BUrEaU

(92-5215)

Washington Ffeld

New York

Newarb (92-937)

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

(92-458)

92-521512

MAY

2 1 1951

0-6÷949

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

12/0

і: 1:

Notations

Hi Rolates

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

iLIE

ЗрЕс

55 JUN

91961

REG 4

EX- 105

REG 14

Franto Bal

DocId: 32309677 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NK 92-937

the assault upon GEORGE EDWARD PHILIPS, which occurred on

5/2/610

An Anti-Racketeering Investigation is presently being

conducted at Newark concerning HAROLD KONIGSBERG.

Extra care and caution should be used concerning

Information furnished by PCI CLIFFORD FINKLE as exposure of

this individual could conceivably result in physical harm

to him and would undoubtedly effect his business operation.

Cover

Page

DocId: 32309677 Page 3

---

## Page 4

д; "

NK 92-937

on Warch 15, 1961, PCI CLIFFORD FINKLE, SR.,

owner of the Passaic Terminal and Transportation Company,

InC•, Bloomileld Avenue, Allwood, New Jersey (a large local

Cartage Agent) advised

that he is one

Board of trustees of the Passaic and Bergen County Branch

of Local 560's Welfare Fund.

he stated that in this capacity

as a Trustee he meets with all of the union officials and

fellow board members as often as twice a month at the

union's

New Jersey®

He related

Of ZIGMUND PSKOWSKI, also known as "ZIGGIE"; JOSEPH SANTIELIO,

ad so now

also known as "STIXIE",

and EDWARD HUGHES, all of whom

represent Local 550; ALBERT SCALEITI, owner of a trucking

concern in Pompton Lakes, New Jersey; ALBERT MARCHINI,

owner of loon Carriers, Clifton, New Jersey, and himself.

He advised that JACOB FRIEDLAND, attorney for the

local, attends the board meetings and presides over disputes

arising over welfare rates, medical eligibility problems

and many operational procedures.

FINKLE stated that although unable to prove his

suspicions at this time he believes that the funds assigned

to the Welfare Fund are being misappropriated by the

recipient of the monies before they are disbursed to insurance

companzes; dentists, etc., or they are returned to the union

officials in the form of a kickback.

artered the lollowing ceasons for his suspicions:

BORI

SCHIETTI

SCALETTI and MARCHINI readily agreed to accept

the 33 cents,

employee contribution rate, demanded by

PROVENZANO and PSKOWSKI even though it meant that a two cents

loss would eventually be incurred by every owner operator

within the sphere of the local.

FINKLE explained that practically all trucking

compaly employees must now contribute 33 cents per hour,

sight nours i day, five days a week, to the Welfare Fund

1oc 1a38 ,

for every member of Local 550, which the firm employs.

stated that a large firm such

He

as his must therefore contribute

as much as $25,000.00 a year, or more into a fund which they

cannot audit to determine how the funds are spent.

Cover Page

DocId: 32309677 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NK 92-937

NRL : mImd

FINKLE stated that the irony of the rate increase

Is that as a member of the Trustee Board he continues to

reiuse to pay the two cents rise in the rate and has not

been bombarded by strike threats by the union.

He stated that he did not know whether MARCHINI

or SCALETTI are paying the increasedrate, but doubts that

they are.

As a trustee of the Welfare Fund he signs

almost all of the Union Welfare checks payable to the physicians,

dentist, and the union optician.

FINKLE stated that he has signed checks for

as much as $12,000.00 payable to a dentist on the rolls of

the Welfare Fund for one month's services to 560 members

and their familles.

He stated that he possesses no conclusive

proof,

but feels that the enorbitant fees charges by the

dentist must require them to kickback some per cent of the

foes to the officials responsible for their selection as a

participating dentist.

FINKLE stated that he was not attempting to be

facetious when he stated that any dentist making $12,000.00

a month would be the richest man in the profession over a

period of one year.

C. He explained that under the present system

voted by and adopted by the local, the 33 cents an hour

Welfare Fund rate is broken down

as follows:

Eleven cents goes to the Pension Fund, approximately

handled by the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company.

FINKLE stated that he has from time to time

attempted to query MARVIN LALk,

Administrator of the Welfare

Fund,

to learn the methods by which contributions from

employers a'e handled and reflected; whether bills from

dentists are checked for accuracy before checks are drawn for

payment and the general bookkeeping procedures for the funds.

FINKLE stated that on every occasion ZALK has

Cover Page

DocId: 32309677 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NK 92-937

NRI: Mrma

politely refused to satisfy him and passed off his questions

concerning the lund's bookkeeping operations with a statement

to the effect that every administrative procedure is handlec

oy his secretarial jorce to his (ZALK's satisfaction and

that FINKLE need not concern himself with that phase of the

fund's operations.

D. FINKLE stated that in an effort to prove to

SA LINKER that something is radically wrong with the operations

of the fund, he produced a three inch by six lnch bookiet

entitled,

"Trucking Employees Welfare Fund Dental Program".

He offered the booklet to SA LINKER for his perusal and

pointed out that page seven of the booklet reads as follows:

"with this authorization card (referring to the members of

the Program) you will receive a list of names, addresses and

telephone numbers of the participating dentists and the

dental plan office"..

"Call the participating dentist you select for an

appointment.

You will get a prompt appointment and we

assure you that you will be treated with the utmost courtesy".

Upon completing the review of the booklet, FINKLE

pointed out that to his knowledge no member of Local 560

has ever been furnished a list of participating dentists.

He stated that in order to prove his point he would call

DOCTOr LÃU MARCUS, ChE AdminiStrator oi the dental Program,

at the Local's 591 Summit Avenue office and FINKLE stated

that be would pretext the call by indicating to MARCUS that

many of his employees have requested that a list of the

fund's participating dentists and their addresses be posted

at the terminal in order to save time, in selecting dentists

of their choice.

FINKLE called MARCUS' office, telephone number

OL 3-4330, In the presence of SA LINKER and asked for Doctor

MARCUS.

When informed that MARCUS was out, FINKLE identified

himself to MARCUS' secretary and proceeded

exetary and

to explain the

pretext. Upon completion oi the call FINKLE stated that

she informed him that a list of the participating dentists

was not available to the men and that they were required to

first appear in DoCtor MARCUS' office for examination and that

they were then assigned to a dentist by Doctor MARCUS.

He pointed out that this policy was a clear

E

Cover Page

DocId: 32309677 Page 6

---

## Page 7

NK 92-937

NRL. : mrmd

contradiction to the procedures outlined in the Dental

program Booklet.

E. Regarding the eye care phase of the Welfare

Fund Program, FINKLE stated that all members of Local 560

and their families are entitled to eye examination and

glasses whenever prescribed.

optician,

He stated that here

that APPEL has an extremely lucrative business through his

affiliations with the local and has always been curious to

know whether APril kickbacks a percentage of the fees

charged to representatives of the union, responsible for securing

his services.

At that point, FINKLE produced a 14 page typewritten

report entitled, "Investigation and Report of Delinquent

Accounts for the Welfare Fund of Local 560, for the period of

February 6, through March 8, 1961 prepared

JR.".

FINKLE pointed out that MARAN Is a $150.00 a week

employee working under MARVIN ZALK and is responsible for

the collection of delinquent Welfare fund accounts, of which

there are always many.

SA LINKER reViewed MARAN's investigation report

and observed he had subheadings for each delinquent account

date the account last contributed to the fund.

which included the name of the firm, the addres -nat the

followed by a narrative stating further the date he inter-

viewed the official of the delinquent firm in an effort to

collect the lunds and wherever his contact did not

result in either obtaining a check in the amount due or

he had not secured assurances from the officials to whom

he was addressing, that money was forthcoming, MARAN threatened

the individual with suit against the firm.

Two exceptions to the threat of suit were noted

during the review, the first was in his comments concerning

Cover Page

DocId: 32309677

Page 7

---

## Page 8

• ;

NK 92-937

NRL: mrma/emg

"Pursuant to the instruction to the Board of

Trustees, court proceedings have been started against

OTTILLO and Sons, Russo Trucking, Smith and Jordan, and

South Orange Express."

"The unlon does not have any signed contracts with

PETER PETRIZZO or Redbird Trucking so no legal action could

be taken against these two companies.

"An informal arrangement was worked out with redbird

Trucking, whereby Redbird would pay its current contribution

and $250.00 per week toward its old unpaid balance of

approximately $20,000.00

"To date the Welfare Fund has not received any

payment from Redbird Trucking, either on their current

contributions or their old unpaid balance.

"I would suggest that a signed contract be obtained

from Redbird and suit instituted."

MARAN's preface continues to discuss several

other trucking concerns and the fact that they were all put

on notice that unless they paid their account a suit would

be instituted.

FINKLE thon made available a document dated

March 6, 1961 directed to the trustees of the trucking employees

of the Passaic and Bergen County Welfare Fund which lists 32

companies delinquent in their payments to the Welfare Fund.

One of the firms noted was Redbird Trucking

no address telement maic according to MARAN,

last paid into the fund on September 3, 1960. The document

points out that Redbird hires a tctal of 47 men on Local 560's

union rolls.

It is to be noted that in MARAN's preface to his

Investigative report dated March 6, 1961 he indicated that

Redbird was in arrears in the amount of $20,000.00 and that

"Informal' arrangements had been made whereby Redbird agreed

to paysits current contribution plus $250.00 towards its unpaid

balance:

SA LINKER reViewed the Manhattan, Brooklyn, Newark,

H

Cover Page

DocId: 32309677 Page 8

---

## Page 9

NK 92-937

NRL: mImd

Passaic, Bergen, and Hudson Telephone Directories on

march 16, 1961 in an effort to locate the address of the

Redbird Trucking with negative results.

SA LINKER made a pretext call to telephone

produced a copy of an unsigned letter from Lehman Brothers

Summit Avenue,

Carbon copies oi

the letter were directed to the members of

the Welfare Fund's Board of Trustees.

The letter points out that a list of the securities

and evaluations are submitted as an enclosure.

The unknown

representative of Lehman Brothers indicates in the letter

that his firm's fee for the supervision of the portfolio of

the Passaic and Bergen County Welfare Fund Pension Account

would be $2,000.00 for the period of December 1, 1957 to

November 30, 1958, payable quarterly in advance.

The enclosed Lehman portfolio dated November 29,

1957 reflects purchases of

56 common and preferred stocks and

bonds amounting to $583, 201.50 with a bool value of $615,740.09.

The above figures reflect the stock purchases made

by Lehman in behalf of the Passaic and Bergen County Welfare

Fund Pension Account.

FINKLE then produced eleven Passaic and Bergen

County Welfare Fund Pension Accounts, audited reports, all

SAN TO, RACO

FINKLE advised that TORRACO handles all of Local

560's accounting matters.

The review of the consolidated

audited report dated May

31, 1958 (the May 31, 1958 audit 1s

the last one in the possession of FINKLE) reflects that the

assets of the Passaic and Bergen County Welfare Fund totals

$303,887.05, the Pension Account reflects assets in the

amount of $870,519.15, with a total assets for both the

Welfare and Pension Accounts of $1,174,406.20.

The last document made avallable by FINKLE for the

I

Cover Page

DocId:32309677 Page 9

---

## Page 10

NK 92-937

NRL : mend

perusal of SA LINKER were the minutes of the Trustee Board Meet-

1ng, held on March 6, 1961.

The letter in part pertains to the

Administrator (ZALK) reporting to the trustees that. CLIFFORD

FINKLE and ZIGMUND PSKOWSKI, Attorney JACOB FRIEDLAND and ZALK

attended the closing on February 17, 1961 at the office of the

Union Title, Guaranty Company, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

with reference to the loan to

the U. S. Glass and Chemical

Corporation.

The Administrator read to the trustees a memo

from JACOB FRIEDLAND dated Febrliary 20, 1961, which outlined

the documents examined by him concerning the closing.

The minutes reflected the Administrator advised

the trustees that a check in the sum of $400,000.00 was

turned over to the U. S. Glass and Chemical Corporation as

consideration for the note and mortgages executed by said

company to the fund.

On March 24, 1961, PCI FINKLE was recontacted and

made avallable three eighteen inch by twelve inch grey

colored booklets entitled, "Trucking Employees of Passaic

and Bergen County Welfare

Fund" for the year ended November 30,

1960, which were prepared by BORNARD TORRACO, Certifled

Public Accountant, 257 Central Avenue, Jersey City, New Jersey. The

sub headings on the booklets are as follows:

Welfare Fund and Dental Fund

Pension Account

Consolidated Audit

FINKLE pointed out that the Consolidated Audit

booklet reflects the over-all financial picture of the

Welfare Fund and the Pension Account at its most recent

examinatin 1, La Scott tar t

course of the review of the Consolidated Audit, it was notec

that under the column Assets, the Welfare Fund contains.

$497, 633. 53 •

The Pension Account contains a balance of

$2,028,462.85. The combined total is reflected as

$2,526,096.38.

.The total liabilities are reflected as

$70,037.14 Copies of the three booklet audit were

disseminatel to FINKLE, ALBERT MARCHINI, ZIGMUND PSKOWSKI,

CoUnseL JACOB TA TEDLA SCALETTI, BENRY SLYBOOM and Local 560

FINKLE was referred to the memorandum reflecting

Cover Page

DocId: 32309677

Page 10

---

## Page 11

• .

NK 92-937

NRL : mrma

the minutes of the trustee board meeting held on March 6,

1961 which in part pertained to Local 560's loan of $400,000.00

to the United States Glass and Chemical Corporation of

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

FINKLE stated that on February 17, 1961, he, PSKOWSKI,

LALi, and FRIEDLaND arrived at the Union Title Guaranty Company,

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to close the note with U. so Glass.

He said that he thought it unusual that shortly after arriving

at the title company in Pittsburgh, Ponnsylvania, ZALK and

FRIEDLAND left him alone while they had a lengthy secretive

discussion with officials of U. S. Glass in another area of the

office.

FINKLE explained that initially two representatives

New Jersey, and JACK PETMAN, the owner of a large hotel in

Jamaica,

West Indies, contacted the union and informed them

that they were destrous of obtaining a $400,000.00 loan from

the union for capital improvements, and understood that the

union was making avallable such funds for this purpose.

FINKLE explained that SHINDLER stated that his firm needed such

capital due to the influx of foreign glass and that it had

become necessary for his firm to obtain more modern equipment

in order to compete against the foreign products.

FINKLE explained that although he did not participate

in the negotiations for the loan at the outset, he finally

approved the note which required U. S. Glass to pay the sum

back within a period of five years at six per cent interest.

FINKLE stated that he was informed by FRIdDLaND, the Attorney

for the locat, that an investigation had determined that

U. S. Glass' net worth was estimated at approximately $8, 000.000.

FINKLE stated that he was further surprised at the clandestine

type conference held at pittsburgh when they arrived but was

unable to state that he knew there were any irregularities

involved in the issuance of the note. He further related

that he did not know whether SHINDLER and/or YETMAN WETE 1D

any way affiliated with the behind-the-scenes operation of

the local nor did he know at this time whether any of the

union's officers had an interest in U. S. Glass.

Regarding VARVIN ZALK, FINKLE advised that he has

understood that he is related to JACOB FRIEDLAND, the Attorney,

and It was through FRIEDLAND's influence that ZALK was

reinstated as the Administrator of the Welfare Fund.

Cover Page

DocId: 32309677

Page 11

---

## Page 12

NX 92-937

NRL. : mImd

FINKLE advised that the following individuals are

affiliated with the Welfare Fund Board in Hudson County,

New Jersey:

CLARENCE, FINKLE,

ITOm Cooper Jarrett;

WALLY O'REILLY,

Armstrong Transportation Company:!

SAM PETIX,

Denver Chicago Express;

RAY/SHAMENSKI,

Brunswick Laundry;

GEORGE PANGMAN,

the owner of a

coal business on Tonnelle Avenue,

Jersey City, New Jersey.

FINKLE advised that at the present time, all

employers of Local 560 men whose businesses are located

In Hudson County, New Jersey, are paying a 33 cent per hour

rate, eight hours a day, live dayy a wees, whereas the

Passaic and Bergen County, New Jersey employers continue

to pay 31 cents an hour.

FINKLE stated that at the most recent board of

trustees meeting, he was informed that the union membership

1s presently at 9600. He advised that JOHN CONKLIN Agency,

* At 3600

Main Street, Hackensack, New Jersey, underwrote and continues

to service the Welfare Fund's John

Hancock Medical Insurance

FINKLE advised that ENt ABAGNALE, a Iormer platIorn

employee at his termina. and who was recently arrested by

the FBI, headed an opposition ticket to TONY PROVENZANO which

was commonly referred to as the Green Ticket. FINKLE reculled

that prior to the election, ABAGNALE requested permission to

post his ticset's candidates throughout the terminal. He

and demanded that finkus remove the posters and discharge

ABAGNALE.

Cover Page

DocId: 32309677

Page 12

---

## Page 13

NK 92-937

NRL : mrmd

FINKLE stated that based on ABAGNALE's apparent

issatisfaction with the operation of Local 500, he suggeste

hat he be interviewed in an effort to determine the exten

of his information concerning the illicit operations within

the local.

FINKLE stated that since the date of the March 15,

1961 Interview, he has not been requested to sign checks

payable to participating dentists; however, will remain alert

for the names of the recipients of all checks which he will

hereafter sign.

FINKLE stated he will also attempt to

discreetly ascertain any pertinent procedures or irregularities

within the local.

FINKLE concluded by stating that the

audit reports disseminated and discussed in the earlier portion

of this memorandum are available to the writer for review

and could be returned at the nest meeting.

On April 10, 1961, PCI FINKLE telephonically

contacted SA NORBERT R. LINKER who advised that he had

just returned to his office after having signed approximately

thirty checks at Local 560's Welfare Fund offices in Jersey

City, New Jersey. He stated that the majority of the checks

were made payable to members of the medical and dental

profession who rendered services to the local's members and

their families during the preceding month. FINKLE stated that

in an effort to comply with SA LINKER's request, he wrote the

names of the following recipients and the amounts due down

on a piece of scratch paper.

He stated that he was mable

to obtain all of the names due to the fact that MARVIN ZALK

periodically entered the office area and feared that ZALK

would become suspicious if he had observed him transcribing

the names of the recipients of the checks which he was then

signing.

He stated that he attempted to be selective in

that the majority of the individuals, whose names he had

obtained, racelved the largest amounts of money.

DOCtOr SHELDONAS IEDER Or/S IEDEN,...

$553.00.

Doctor WILLIANTANLEY,

$700.00.

DoctOr PAULALEE,

$610.00.

Cover Page

DocId: 32309677

Page 13

---

## Page 14

NK 92-937

Doctor SIGMOND LENNENSON,

$1, 590.00.

Doctor JOSEPH NAUSIAN (Phonetic),

$1, 580.00.

Doctor HERO ROBERTS,

$2,273.00.

New Jersey State Dental Laboratory,

$3, 581.00.

FINKLE stated that he is inclined to believe that

TONY PROVENZANO, head of Local 560, and JACOB PRIEDLAND,

Attorney for the local, were entertained by JaCk YEllaN,

the owner of a large hotel in Jamaica, West Indies, prior to

closing the $400,000.00 loan due the U. S. Glass and Chemical

Corporation of Pittsburgh,

Pennsylvania

FINKLE referred

SA LINKER to the conversation of March 24, 1961 When he

advised that YETMAN and one DAVE SHINDLER, Officers of the

U. S. Glass and Chemical Corporation, were the individuals

who had initially approached the local in an effort to secure

the $400,000.00 loan.

FINKLE pointed out that his reason

for believing that PROVENZANO and FRIEDLAND had been enter-

tained by YETMAN was due solely on the fact that during a

conversation between YETMAN and FRIEDLAND at Pittsburgh,

Pennsylvania, YETVAN displayed an article written by DOROTHY

KILGALLEN in which she commented favorably on YETVAN's hotel,

name unknown, in Jamaica,

FRIEDLAND perused the article and commented that he and

TONY (assuming he was referring to PROVENZANO) had both

thoroughly enjoyed their stay and did not believe KILGALLEN

had exaggerated his establishmeni's facilities.

FINKLE stated that he did not know the significance

other's operation but thought it worthy of mention to

SA LINKER.

N

Cover Page

DocId: 32309677 Page 14

---

## Page 15

";

NK 92-937

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NK T-1

PCI CLIFFORD FINKLE, SR.

NK I-L

Dun and Bradstreet,

New York City

NK T-3

NK 1998-C

NK T-4

NK 2080-C

NK T-5

PCI MAX SANCHEZ

NK T-6

MICHAEL JOSEPH O'CONNOR

NK I-T

NK 1751-C

Careful consideration has been given to the sources

concealed and T symbols were utilized only in those instances

where the identities of the sources must be concealed.

Cover Page

DocId: 32309677

Page 15

---

## Page 16

NX 92-937

LEADS

NEW YORK:

City polIc payor, Eate whether that department e

files reflect arrests, associates or knowledge of ANTHONY

PROVENZANO who was born in that city and is presently president

of Local 560, IBT, Union City:

Will, at the New York State Boxing Commission

Otices, determine

whether ANTHONY PROVENZANO ever fought

professionally in that state

Should a record be located,

review to determine the identity of all members of his family,

his manager and owners.

3. Will contact all logical criminal informants who

are familiar with the trucking industry in New York and New

Jersey to determine their knowledge of PROVENZENO and other

officers of Local 560, IBT, Union City.

Will identify the Captain of the Port, New York,

N. Yo, as reflected on PROVENZANO's FBI arrest record, which

is contained in the body of this report and thereafter review

the afore-mentioned application for all pertinent lamily and

personal background.

HASHINGTON FIELD:

AT WASHINGTON, D. C.:

. I. Will, at the securities

and Exchange Commission, recontact Mr. CHARLES H. EISENHART,

AsSistant DireCtor, Corporation Finance Division, to determine

concerning U. S. Glass and Chemical Co., Inc:, Royal State

Bank of New York and WILLIAM GOLDFINE, an officer of that firm.

It should be noted that PCI FINKLE, had advised that the

$400,000 loan furnished U. S; Glass at Pittsburgh by Local

13t, was ostensibly for

capital investments of that firm

rather than for the purchase of Missisquoilarble and stone

corporation of Canada.

2. Will determine EISENHART's knowledge of JOEY

ABRAMS, the

individual whom he advised headed a group who

purchased U: S. Glass and Chemical in 1958.

REVIEWED BY JFK TASK FORCE

ON

Cover Page

6/26/92 das /P4$

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

DocId: 32309677

Page 16

---

## Page 17

FD-250-1-

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

NEWARK

Offico of Origin

NEWARK

TITLE OF CASE

Da13/24/61

Ropor OHN F. BURKE

CHARACTER OF CASE

Investigative Period

1/24 - 3/21/61

*

CRIMINA

INFLUENCE IN THE

IBT, ULOCAL 560, JERSEY CITY..

NEW JERSEY

ANTI-RACKETEERING

740-719

TEAMSTERS LENION

REFERENCE

sual alta, to Albany dated 1/1a/1à

• P.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Sourde

NK T-1

PCI. MAX SANCHEZ

NK T-2

NK 1751-C

NK

NY

T-3

2427-C

NK

NK

T-4

2080-C

Typed By:

cds

Approved

Copies made:

A Cards

Special Agent.

in Charge I

Bureau

2 - Washington Field

Do not write in spaces below

192+52155

RS ONE

17 MAR 29 1961

2 - Newark

(92-937)

Dain 20914

Dest

1)/2 8/61

=ce,

kefit

19 39 7.

CEn

6l5o

620

FBI

This report

is loa

APR 19

1961

you by the FBl, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which looked.

# U. B. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1986 0 385910

DocId: 32309677 Page 17

MCT - 20

---

## Page 18

NK 92-937

LEADS

WASHINGTON FIELD

AT WASHINGTON

Dio. Co

Will obtain copies of any

Communist affidavit tiled by the officers of IBT, Local 560,

707 Summit Avenue, Jersey City, N.J.

NEWARK

AT NEWARK, NEW JERSEY: 1. Will conduct credit

and criminal checks on all the officers of Local 560 and obtain

background information.

2. Will recontact PCI MAX SANCHEZ, NK 1751-C and

NK 2080-C to obtain additional information concerning criminal

Influence in Local 560.

3.

Will attempt to develop additional Informants and

sources of information who can furnish information concerning

criminal influence in Local 560.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32309677

Page 18

---

## Page 19

i .

NK 92-937

Hackensack, N.J., and uses this address in connection with all

of his business

activities. PROVENZANO has a wife, MArlE

MIGNERONE, who is about 35 years old and three children. His

wife and children reside at 45 Lockewood Place, Clifton, N.J.

The owners of this residence are listed as ANTHONY and MARIE'

MIGNERONE but ANTHONY MIGNERONE is, in fact, ANTHONY PROVENZANO.

PROVENZANO visits his wife and children about once each week.

He purchased the residence on Lockewood Place for his wife and

children some time during 1957.

His wife is a former Canadian

citizen who at one time resided in Montreal, Canada.

On November 12, 1952, NK T-2 advised that ANTHONY

STROLLO,

aka. Tony Bender and ALBERT ANASTASIA, prominant New

York City racketeers, contrebled Local 560 of the IBT. According

to NK I-2, STROLLO and ANASTASIA were responsible for

the selection

and election of PROVENZANO and ANTHONY CASTELLITTO, aka. "Three

Fingered' Tony, as delegates of Local 560. NK I-2 said that a

close friend of his for the past two years,

had been having a

great deal of trouble with cAstelLitTo, who was trying to prevent

him from working.

According to the informant, his friend advised

him that he contacted TONY BENDER and told him about his difficulties

with CASTELLITTO which prevented him from working. BENDER then

sent this individual to CASTELLITTO and told him to tell

CASTELLITTO that BENDER said that he was to get work.

According

to NK T-2, after this incident, his friend was able to work

regularly and never had any further difficulties with CASTELLITTO.

On May 21, 1960, NK T-3 advised that PROVENZANO was

friendly with and associated occasionally with JERRY CATENA and

FRANK ERICKSON and other well known racketeers.

JERRY CATENA attended the Apalachin meeting in

November, 1957.

FRANK ERICKSON is a well known New York gabling

figure.

In December, 1960, NK T-4 advised that TONY PRO was

"very big man in New

Jersey" and had tremendous strength and

control.

informant said that by this statement, he meant that

PROVENZANO was connected with influencial racketeers in the state

of New Jersy.

On February T, 1961, NK T-4 advised tht he had heard

that someone was working against PROVENZANO in attapting to take

-5 -

4.1.

DocId: 32309677 Page 19

---

## Page 20

NK 92-937

over the control of Local 560 from him.

Informant stated that

PROVENZANO got his job

as President of

the local through JOE

"SOCKS" LANZA and other "prominant New York City mob figures".

Who dominate New York.

On

September 11, 1954, NK I-2 furnished the following

information:

He stated that the local is headed by JOHNNIE CONLIN,

who is also a Second Vice President of the International AFL

Teamsters Union. CONLIN is an older man in poor:health and is

not expected to continue in control of the local much longer.

MICKEY SHERIDAN, a delegate of the local, has recently

been set up as president by CONLIN in an effort to establish a line

of succession.

However, the informant stated, the two Italian

delegates,

"Three-finger TONY" CASTELLITTO and TONY PROVENZANO,

have the strongest backing and are expected to take over the

entire local when CONLIN dies or resigns. He stated that if

CONLIN were a younger man and were not nationally prominant as

a Vice President in the International AFL, he would probably have

been disposed of forcefully by the Italian faction of the local

long before now.

There is also some fear of reprisal from mob

elements backing CONLIN.

He said that CONLIN originally obtained

leadership of the local

through the backing of CHARLIE

• "THE JEW"'

YANOWSKI, who was an intimate friend of CONLIN before he was

killed in a gang shooting in about 1948.

City hoodlum, is now believed to

is also pushing PROVENZANO and the Italian faction to succeed

CONLIN rather than the SHERIDAN group.

The informant states

that PROVENZANO was originally from New York City.

He was &

professional fighter in his youth and was taken under the wing

of the Greenwich Village hoodlums lead by STROLLO, at that time.

He later worked for the STROLLO mob in New York, and STROLLO

originally had him placed in Local 560 through CONLIN as a

shop steward at H. P. Welsh Company PROVENZANO rose allegedly

in the local because of his backing and soon became a delete.

The informant stated that a delegate's job is a

highly coveted one and is given as in the case of PRoVENZANO

for services rendered to the nob rather than for friendship

alone and as a result PROVENZANO is under constant obligation

to STrOLLO.

The informant recalled that at one time about a

year ago when he was unable to obtain employment through Local 560,

he went directly to STROLLO with whom he is acquainted and STROLLO

had him put to work immediately through PROVENZANO. After going

-6 -

DocId: 32309677 Page 20

---

## Page 21

NK 92-937

to work with STROLLO and PROVENZAND's backing, he was not

required to pay the monthly dues.

The delegate's position pays a salary of $275 monthly,

plus 55 weekly expenses, the months vacation, and a new

Cadillac furnished each year.

The delegates also make side

money out of the "gypsy running" racket. Under ordinary union

procedure, gypsy drivers from out of town are not allowed to

nake local deliveries without a local union driver.

regularly employing gypsy drivers make arrangements through the

delegate handling the terminal to let the gypsy complate the

delivery for a set financial consideration.

The informant stated that the current financial status

of the local is carefully guarded by the official, and if any

member makes inquiry in that direction at a meeting, he would

be told to "shut up" or he would be forced out of work; and if

he becomes persistent, he is thrown bodily out of the meeting by

bouncers hired by the official.

His union book is subsequently

taken away fromhim. The informant stated there are several

sets of books kept by the union for various purposes and on

15 asko to see the

one occasion when he asked to see the books, he was shown a set

in which the latest entries were more that two years old.

He

said the monthly dues were $4.00 per member and the local is reported

to have about 18,000 paying members.

appear on their records.

The recorded members can be distinguished

from those not recorded on the records only by examination of

their individual books. Such an examination would show that

at some of the larger terminals the last checkmen on the seniority

list will have the stamp space initialed by a delegate rather

than the stamp which should be placed there when their dues are

paid. Those books with the initials represent the non-recorded

members. This situation exists because the local buys their

stamps fron the International for about $160 each, and stamps

are purchased only for the number of members actually appearing

on the local's records. The dues from the members who do not

receive stamps are not collected by the shop stewards at the

various terminals as is the usual procedure, but the dues

are collected by the delegates personally.

The informant stated

that money received from these members did not go into the

union's funds, as there was no record of their membership.

By letter dated July 9, 1959, the Criminal Division

of the U. S. Department of Justice furnished information indicating

that a Mr. WALTER DORN, President of the Dorn Pransportation

testified before the Senate Select Committee on Improper

- 7-

DocId: 32309677

Page

21

---

