# docid-32304455

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10286-10085

HQ

100-30067-132

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: KEHE, WILBERT H.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/16/1960

PAGES: 30

SUBJECTS :

JOP, REL AND ASSOC, TRA, RES, BKG, EMP, CP ACT,

SECURITY INDEX

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32304455

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

-FD:263 (ReiN 5-12

3124

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

SAN FRANCISCO

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

SAN FRANCISCO

DATE

SEXRE TATIVERIOO

SEORET

MAR 1 6 1980

9/17/59-2/29/60

REPORT MADE BY

WILBERT H. KEHE

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

Im::

JOHN ORION

PITTMAN

IS - C

SYNOPSIS:

ATE INFORAATION CONTAINED

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

NARSINTS UNCAESTETRD RICEPE

MISERE SHOAN OTHERWISE.

REFERENCE: Report of SA WILBERT H. KEHE, 10/2/59, San Francisco

APPROVED

COPIES MADE

-P* -

10-24-44

Classified by St& Muchd

Declassify on: 0ADR/JFK

ADMINISTRATIVE:

stops have been placed with In man die tol

Naturalization Service

to be notified upon subject's return

10-60-47

to the United States.

Eight copies of this report have been furnished

(JFK)

to the Bureau in view of the fact that the Bureau may desire

to furnish copies to interested Legats because of Subject's

possible travel throughout Europe. It is noted that the

Legat. in Bonn has alerted various agencies in Germany regardingls

the possible travel of Subject in Germany.

in London has alerted British Security Service M1-5. ThelS

Legat, in ParisChas been in touch with the Direction de la

the subject in France. 48

Ds? Legarding possible travel

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

100-30067+1 3288097

1

]

Bureau

(100-30067)

(REG)

LOS

Angeles (Info;

REG)

New

York (InIO; REO)

San

Francisco (100-1465)

MAR 21 1960

PROPERT

by routing slip for

Bate, star, fu SETRET

E into

date.

13

COPIES DESTROYED

SUBL

CONTROL

by...

€. 2 NOV

110721

P SECRE

MAn 2: 96 Daned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

DocId:32304455

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

62 100-1455

WHK : IMR

DiLI

CG 5824-S* on 9/23/59 advised that JAMES JACKSON,

a member of the National Executive Committee of the CP, USA

commented on 9/23/59 that he had given JOHN PITTMAN some

material which JACKSON had prepared on the Negro Question.

JACKSON commented that this material was for the CP of

Czechoslovakia and that PITTMAN would write a foreword

to the document.

By letter dated 10/15/59, the Legat, Paris, IOr-

warded to the Bureau S7 photographs of material obtained

from the Direction de la Surveillance du Territoire (DST),.

French domestic counterespionage service, on 10/14/59.

The DST obtained these photographs from an anonymous source

which had access to the baggage of the PITTMANS which was

left in their Paris hotel room while they visited London.

The photographs indicated

the PITTMANS left behind in their

baggage the following:(5)

1) A list of names on a 1957 book calendar.

2) A small address book with names and addresses

primarily of individuals in the United States

with

a few scattered addresses abroad.

3) A small alphabetical address book containing names

and addresses primarily in Europe with a few

scattered addresses in the United States.

4) A large address book with calendars

for years

1956 - 1958 (probably a 1957 list).

5. A press card to the Conference de Paris as a

representative of "Chicago Defender"

6) Correspondent's

credentials issued to Subject,

dated 7/25/45-7/25/47.

7) A 1946 correspondent's credentials to subject

"The Chicago Defender"

8) A 1951 delegate's credentials as representative

of Newspaper Guild, Local 3, New York.

(5)

COVER PAGE "I

SEGRET

DocId: 32304455

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SE 100-1465

WHK : LMR

9) A New York working press

cara as a representative

of the "Daily Worker"

', which expired 12/31/52.

10) "People's World" credentials, dated 1/1 to 12/31/56.

11) "Daily Worker" credentials to United Nations valid

to 8/12/55.

12) "Daily Worker" credentials to Japanese Peace Con-

ference, San Francisco, dated September, 1951.

13) A reporter's pass issued by Associated Negro

Press, Inc., official news service for 112

newspapers, which was good until 9/1/48.

14) A press delegate's card to úth National Conference

of U.S. National Commission for . UNESCO at San

Francisco from 11/6 - 9/57.

15) A press card to sessions of UNCIO representing the

"Daily People's World".

Subject also had a portion of a map of the Pittsburo.

California, area with "x" marked on several portions. A

survey of the area failed to reflect any significance to the

markings on the map. (5)

The nature of the foregoing material, which was in

the possession of the subject, some of it dating back 14

years, indicates that Subject

apparently is something of a

'pack rat" and that he probably also accumulated the list

of names over a long period of time and that they may have no

particular significance at the present time.

In Bulet dated 12/30/59, the Bureau noted that many .

of the names contained in PITTMAN's effects in Paris were,

or had been, Communist Party functionaries, and that this

was

to be expected and not of any particular significance since

PITTMAN has had a long history of Communist activities and

associations.

The Bureau further pointed out in Bulet to

the Legat, Paris, dated 12/23/59, that many names could not be

checked completely because some of them were illegible and

because there was a lack of sufficient identifying data con-

cerning a number of others. Both these observations were (5)

COVER PAGE

SEGREA

(5)

DocId: 32304455 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SF 100-1465

WHK : LMR

borne out by the search of the

San Francisco indices on

all the names. (5)

In line with the suggestion of the Bureau in

Bulet dated 12/30/59, in view of the existing circumstances,

the primary purpose of the analysis of the San Francisco

Office was to ascertain whether any of the contacts were

with individuals concerning whom there is reason to suspect

that there is some subversive connection other than their

normal communist affiliation.

The analysis along this

line reflected that the great bulk of the contacts were

obviously only fellow communist associations.

The only

names which might be identical with individuals who might

have or have had some unusual connections were the

following:

MEL WESKURITADIER

San Francisco files reflect that one KURT ADLER

in 1944 was attempting to get into Army Intelligence

with the Army of Occupation, and that he. had met with

many Russian prisoners of war who were drafted into

the German Army when it occupied soviet territor

according to ADLER's wife, FREYDA ADLER.

DORISCATTELL

San Francisco files reflect that one DORIS CATTELI

was one of the associates of DSM employees who could

have been a possible medium through which DSM infor fAde

mation was channeled, according to Lieutenant MARTIN WEBB,

Office of Manhattan Engineers District, New York City.

FRANCES

DAMON

San Francisco files reflect that one FRANCES DAMON

was reported in the espionage case entitled FAVEL LS_

IVANOVICH FEDOSIMOV to have been the individual who

possibly was requested by FEDOSIMOV to confer with him

at the Consulate in New York on January 3, 1952. DAMON

reportedly was Executive secretary Orche American

Youth for a Free world and reportedly was in frequent

COVER

¿ PAGE

TAP SECRET

Do01d: 32304455 Page J

---

## Page 6

SF 100-1465

WHK: LMR

contact with Captain OREST

zonevizov, a representati

oi the Youth Antf-Fasciste

committee of Moscow, who

toured

the United States in 1945.

HARRY HAYWOOD

San Francisco indices reflect that HARRE HAYWOOD

Is an allas of hAYwoOd HAll, who, according to

CNDI LA 10-2,

was a graduate of the Lenin School in Moscow, USsR.

HAYWOOD also reportedly in a session of the HCUA in San

Francisco on 12/1/53 was identified as an individuall

trained in Moscow in the Lenin School who wrote the

Communist position on the Negro Question.

GENE

JASINSKI

San Francisco files reflect that one BUGENE VICTOR

JASINSKI in a New. York report,

dated 5/28/47, captioned

In that name was identifiea as the General Secretary of

the Polish-Amertean Labor Council and as an individual m

attached to the staff of OSCAR LANGE, Polish Ambassador

to the United States. S

J.P

A ONES

San Francisco files reflect that this inciviaual.

may be identical with J. PALIN ONES, Educational Ca

Consultant and Tutor, 100 Kiswich, Road Shanghais and

20 Inverteath Gardens, Bainburgh, Unite KiREdom. The

name of this individual was located in the effects of one

YOKOV ABRAMOVICH, a suspected Russian espionage agent

in 1947.

GEORGE NICHOLAS VARTIN

San Francisco indices reflect

Calithis individual

may be identical with an individual who sent a

telegram

*MORROS in the COMRAP Case in 1943.

ALEX RIZOV

San Francisco indices reflect that this individual

may be identical with one whose alias was the same and

E

"'"''COVER PAGE

DOC1d: 32304455

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SF 100-1465

WHK : LMR

SECRET

2Nґ, Il

whose name actually was ALEXANDER DIMITER RIZOFF.

This

Individual was employed by the united committee

South StaviC Americans In New York City,

a report dated 12/15/44 in the COMRAP case.

reportedly was

expelled from the United States because

of his communist activities and was an outspoken,

enthusiastic Communist while in Bulgaria. Alex

J.E./SALTER

San Francisco indices reflect that this individual

be identical with JOHN SALTER, a British citizen

The indices

one EDWIN JOHN SALTER OF JOHN EDWIN SALTER, bORR

3/19/92 in Great Britain, may have been identical with

the agent"of the Swiss

network of Rote Kapelle who

used the alias SALTER.

(U)

ESTHER SHIELDS

San Francisco indices reflect that one ESTHER

SHIELDS in 1945 was the Assistant Managing Editor of

the Tass News Agency in New York City.

The information in the San Francisco Office on

the foregoing individuals is only Iragmentary, but it Is

not believed the appearance of the names in the effects of LS

the subject is of sufficient significance to warrant further

attention at this time.

EAD

SAN FRANCISCO OFFICE

AT SAN FRANCISCO, CALIE.

Will continue to follow the activities of subject

and remain alert for his return to the San Francisco area.

switz

COVER PAGE

Nails

SECRET

DocId: 32304455 Page_7

---

## Page 8

SE 100-1465

WHK : LMR

SOURCES:

160e1

DEANEL

Identity of

Source

SF T-1 -

British security e

Service MI-

SF 1-2 -

DST, Paris (5)

SE T-3-

U.s.

Empassy,

Department oi

State,

Moscow, USSR

SF T-4 -

SF 1189-S

SF T-5 -

SF 2153-S

SF

T-6

NY 646-S

SE T-7 -

CS

SF 2148-5*

SF

T-8-

CG 5824-S*

SE T-9 -

SF 2357-S

File Where

Located

100-1465-803

100-1465-811

100-1465-840

134-11A

134-809A

NY 134-70-1065

100-1465-815

100-1465-807

G

COVER PAGE

* SONCE SEREL

DocId: 32304455 Page 8

---

## Page 9

FD$201 (Rey. 3-3-59)

UNTÊD STATES DEPARTMENT OF

CASTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COrn

-DENTIAL

SECRET

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

SA WILBERT H. KEHE

MAR 1 6 1960

Field Office Fibe#:100-1465

Title:

JOHN ORION PITTMAN

Office:

Bureau File #:

SAN FRANCISCO

100-30067

Character:

11/10/97

CASSIFIED BY 5.668Si/mde

DECLASSIFY ON: 20X

Synopsis:

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

Subject, his wife, and two children, reportedly are residing

Subject reportedly

"People's World"

newspapers. His assignment probably was

handled by Communist Party national leaders without con-

sultation with the editorial staff of "The Worker"

Subject reportedly may remain in Soviet Union for three

years.

-P*-

DETAILS:

AT SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA

I. BACKGROUND INFORMATION

SF I-I on October 1, 1959 advised that JOHN

PITTMAN, his

wife, and two children arrived at London Airport

on a flight from Paris, France, on September 30, 1959 at

11 p.m.

While in the United Kingdom, subject and his

resided

at the Mitre House, 180 Sussex Gardens

London.

Subject and his family departed London via Air

France en route to Paris on October 4, 1959 at 10 p.m.

The passport of Subject and his wife contained no soviet

visas. (5)

CONF

MENTIAL

SECRET

This document contatns nether recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId:32304455

Page 9

---

## Page 10

SE 100-1465

WHK : IMR

SF T-2 on October 14, 1959 advised that JOHN

PITTMAN,

his wife, and two children registered at the

Hotel Gallic, 14 rue de l'Arcade, Paris, france, on

September 24, 1959.

They departed on the evening of

September 30,

1959 for London, and returned from London

on October 4, 1959, at which time they returned to the

Hotel Callic.

They left Paris on October 6, 1959 by air

for Moscow, USSR.

The visa applications for PITTMAN and his

family enabling them to travel to Moscow were handled per-

sonally by

• the Soviet diplomat IOURI ZOUEV

an attache

of the soviet Embassy. While in faris, France, PITIMAN was

in contact with one MARCEL PRETECEILIE, a rePOrtIO

French Communist newspaper

SF T-3 on December 1, 1959 advised that JOHN

PITIMAN and his wife, MARGARETE PITTMAN, were registered at

the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, Russia, as reporters for

"The Worker" newspaper and

subject and his wife had with them their two children,

ages

8 and 6. PITTMAN has Passport #1741922, which reflects

that he was born September 17, 1906 at Atlanta, Georgia.

Mrs. PITIMAN bears Passport 11741921, which reflects that

she was born in Frankfürt, Germany, on October 7, 1919.

SF I-4 on December 1, 1959 advised that BETTY

WINTER, a Communist Party member in San Francisco, stated

on December 1, 1959 that she had received a letter from

JOHN PITTMAN

showing his return address as Flat 8, 9 Gorky

Street, Moscow, USSR. The letter reportedly advised WINTER

that PITTMAN had been employed as a

„correspondent for "The

Worker" and for the "People's World" newspapers since

November 1, 1959.

SI

SE T-5 on December 4, 1959 advised that JUANITA

WHEELER, a member of the Communist Party in San Francisco

and an

employee of the "People's World"

newspaper,

stated

that she was corresponding with PITTMAN and that PITTMAN

would probably stay in hussia lor three years.

WHEELER

commented that the PITTMANS were having trouble placine

their children in school in Russia and that they had leased

their house in San Francisco.

2

DocId: 32304455 Page 10

---

## Page 11

In Reply, Please Refer io

File No. 100-1465

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

422 Feder 1 Office Bld..

san Francisco, California

MAR 1 6 1960

SECRET

JOHN ORION PITTMAN

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

Sources SF

I-1 through SF I-3 are confidential

sources

abroad. St T-4 through SF T-9 have furnishe

reliable information in the past

These sources mentioned

in report of Special Agent WILBERT H. KEHE, dated anc

captioned as above at San Francisco.

This memorandum is loaned to you bi the Fbl, anc

neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside

the agency to which loaned.

<57

COPIES DESTROYED

P: NOV 91973

SECRET

DocId: 32304455

Page

11

---

## Page 12

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. 100-1465

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

422 Feder 1 Office Blog.

San Francisco, California

MAR 1 € 1950

SECRET

JOHN ORION PITTMAN

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

Sources SF

sources

SF T-4

T-1 through SF I-3 areCconfidential (S

eile croation In the pager

through sF T-9 have furnished

These sources mentioned

in report of Special

Agent WILBERT H. KEHE, dated anc

captioned as above at San Francisco.

The ten to on one are ca

This memorandum is loaned to you bi the FBI, and

neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside

DocId: 32304455

Page 12

---

## Page 13

Repost Folin

FD:263 (Rev. 5-12-55)

REPORTING OFFICE

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SAN FRANCISCO

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

SAN FRANCISCO

DATE

SACHin ATE MENDO

MAR 1 6 1960

9/17/59-2/29/60

REPORT MADE BY

WILBERT H. KEHE

JOHN ORION PITTMAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

Ima:

IS - C

SYNOPSIS:

110/97

CLASSH

BD9Y 5668:140/md

DECI ASSIFY ON: 20X

AN INPOOVATTON CONTAINED

HISREIN IS UNCLASSIFTED BXCEP

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

REFERENCE: Report of SA WILBERT H. KEHE, 10/2/59, San Francisco

-P* -

Classified

10-PX. ty SPS: Machide

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Declassify o

Stope wave been bacd with introd die Any

Naturalization Service to be notified upon subjéct's return

to the United States.

10-6-97

(JFK)

Eight copies of this report have been furnished

to the Bureau in view of the fact that the Bureau may desire

to furnish copies to interested Legats because of Subject's

possible travel throughout turope. It is notea that the

Legat in Bonn has alerted various agencies in Germany regardinglS_

in London has alerted British Security Service MI-5. The LS-

Legat in Paris has been in touch with the Direction

Surveillance du Territoire

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGEM

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

8" Bureau (100-30007) (REG)

Los Angeles (Info; REG)

I New York (InIO; REG)

3 San Francisco (100-1405)

SECREL ME SEURET

PROPERTY OF FBI. —This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

Do010: 32304455 Page 13

---

## Page 14

OP SEUNLI

SF 100-1455

WHK : IMR

SECRED

CG 5824-S* on 9/23/59 advised that JAMES JACKSON,

a member of the National Executive Committee of the CP, USA

commented on 9/23/59 that he had given JOHN PITTMAN some

material which JACKSON had prepared on the Negro Question.

JACKSON commented that this material was for the CP of

Czechoslovakia and that PITTMAN would write a foreword

so the document.

By letter dated 10/15/59, the Legat, Paris, for-

warded to the Bureau 97 photographs of material obtained

from

the Direction de la Surveillance du Territoire

(DST),

French domestic counterespionage service, on 10/14/59.

The DST Obtained these photographs from an anonymous source

which had access to the baggage of the PITTMANS which was

left in their Paris hotel room while they visited London.

The photographs indicated

the PITTMANS left behind in their

baggage the following: 5)

1) A list of names on a 1957 book calendar.

2) A small address book with names and addresses

primarily of individuals in the United States

with

a few scattered addresses abroad.

3) A small alphabetical address book containing names

and addresses primarily in Europe with a few

scattered addresses in the United States.

4)

A large address book with calendars for years

1956 - 1958 (probably a 1957 list).

5. A press card to the Conference de Paris as a

(5)

representative of "Chicago Defender"

6) Correspondent's credentials issued to Subject,

dated 7/25/46-7/25/47.

7) A 1946 correspondent's credentials to subject

to

"The Chicago Defender"

8) A 1951 delegate's credentials as representative

of Newspaper Guild, Local 3, New YOrk.

COVER PAGE

SECRET

SECRET

DocId: 32304455 Page 14

---

## Page 15

SE 100-1465

WHK : LMR

9) A New York working press card as a representative

of the

"Daily Worker", which expired 12/31/52.

10) "People's World" credentials, dated 1/1 to 12/31/56.

11) "Daily Worker" credentials to United Nations valia

to 8/12/55.

12) "Daily Worker" credentials to Japanese Peace Con-

ference, San Francisco, dated September, 1951.

13) A reporter's pass issued by Associated Negro

Press, Inc., official news service for 112

newspapers, which was good until 9/1/48.

14) A press delegate's card to 6th National Conference

of U.S. National Commission for . UNESCO at San

Francisco from 11/6 - 9/57.

15)

A press cara to sessions of UNCIO representing the

"Daily People's World"

Subject also had a portion of a map of the Pittsburg,

California, area with "x" marked on several portions. A

survey of the area failed to reflect any significance to the

markings on the map. (5)

The nature of the foregoing material, which was in

the possession of the subject, some of it dating back 14

years, indicates that subject apparently is something of a

"pack rat" and that he probably aiso accumulated the list

of names over a long period of time and that they may have no

particular significance at the present time.

In Bulet dated 12/30/59, the Bureau noted that many

of the names contained in PITTMAN's effects in Paris were,

or had been, Communist Party functionaries, and thât this

was

to be expected and not of any particular significance since

PITTMAN has had a long history of Communist activities and

associations.

The Bureau further pointed out in Bulet to

the Legat, Paris, dated 12/23/59, that many names could not be

checked completely because some of them were illegible and

because there was a lack of sufficient identifying data con-

cerning a number of others. Both these observations were (S

C

COVER PAGE

(s

DocId: 32304455

Page 15

---

## Page 16

SF 100-1465

WHK : LMR

sit pian

borne out by the search of the San Francisco indices on

all the names. (5)

In line with the suggestion of the Bureau in

Bulet dated 12/30/59, in view of the existing circumstances,

the primary purpose of the analysis of the San Francisco

Office was to ascertain whether any of the contacts were

with individuals concerning whom there is reason to suspect

that there is some subversive connection other than their

normal communist affiliation.

The analysis along this

line reflected that the great bulk of the contacts were

obviously only fellow communist associations.

The only

names which might be identical with individuals who might

have or have had some unusual connections were the

following:

KURT ADLER

San Francisco files reflect that one KURT ADLER

in 1944 was attempting to get into Army Intelligence

with the Army of Occupation, and that he had met with

many Russian prisoners of war who were drafted into

the German Army when it occupied Sovietterritory,

according to ADLER's wife, FREYDA ADLER.

DORIS CATTELL

San Francisco files reflect that one DORIS CATTELI

was one of the associates of DSM employees who could

have been a possible medium through which DSM infor-

mation was channeled, according to Lieutenant MARTIN WEBB,

Office of Manhattan Engineers District, New York City.

FRANCES DAMON

San Francisco files reflect that one FRANCES DAMON

was reported in the espionage case entitled FAVEL <S-

IVANOVICH FEDOSIMOV to have been the individual who

possibly was requested by FEDOSIMOV to confer with him

at the Consulate in New York on January 3, 1952. DAMON

reportedly was Executive Secretary of the

AmerIcan

Youth for a Free World and reportedly was in frequent

D

COVER PAGE

DocId:32304455 Page 16

---

## Page 17

SECKET

SF 100-1465

WHK : IMR

contact with Captain OREST SHEVIZOV, a representative

of the Youth Anti-Fascist Committee of Moscow, who

toured the United States in 1945.

HARRY HAYWOOD

San Francisco indices reflect that HARRY HAYWOOD

is an alias of HAYWOOD HALL, who, according to CNDI LA 10-2,

was a graduate of the Lenin School in Moscow, USSR.

HAYWOOD also reportedly in a session of the HCUA in San

Francisco on 12/1/53 was identified as an individual

trained in Moscow in the Lenin School who wrote the

Communist position on the Negro Question.

GENE JASINSKI

San Francisco files reflect that one EUGENE VICTOR

JASINSKI in a New York report, dated 5/28/47, captioned

in that name was identified as the General Secretary of

the Polish-American Labor Council and as an individual

attached to the staff of OSCAR LANGE, Polish Ambassador

to the United States.

J.P. JONES

San Francisco files reflect that this individual

The

name of this individual was located in the effects of one

YOKOV ABRAMOVICH, a suspected Russian espionage agent

in 1947.

GEORGE NICHOLAS MARTIN

San Francisco indices reflect that this individual

may be identical with an individual who sent a telegram

to BORIS M. MORROS in the COMRAP Case in 1943.

ALEX RIZOV

San Francisco indices reflect that this individual

may be identical with one whose alias was the same and

E

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32304455

Page 17

---

## Page 18

SF 100-1465

WHK : LMR

infinitie

whose name actually was ALEXANDER DIMITER RIZOFF.

This

individual

was employed by the United Committee of

south Slavic Americans in New York CIty, according to

a report dated 12/15/44 in the COMRAP case.

RIZOV

reportedly was expelled from the United States because

of his Communist activities and was an outspoken,

enthusiastic Communist while in Bulgaria.

J.E. SALTER

San Francisco indices reflect that this individual

may be identical with JOHN SALTER, a British citizen

and bank correspondent in Geneva, who may have been an

The indices

also reflect that

one EDWIN JOHN SALTER Or JOHN EDWIN SALTER, born

3/19/92 in Great Britain, may have been identical with

the agent of the swiss

network of note napelle who

used the alias SALTER.

(u)

ESTHER SHIELDS

San Francisco indices reflect that one ESTHER

SHIELDS in 1945 was the Assistant Managing Editor of

the Tass News Agency in New York City.

The information in the San Francisco Office on

the foregoing individuals is only fragmentary, but it is

not believed the appearance of the names in the effects of

the Subject islof sufficient significance to warrant further S

attention at this time.

LEAD:

SAN FRANCISCO OFFICE

AT SAN FRANCISCO, CALIF.

Will continue to follow the activities of Subject

and remain alert for his return to the San Francisco area.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32304455.

- Page 18

---

## Page 19

.t..i

SE 100-1465

WHK : LMR

SOURCES:

Identity of

Source

SF T-1 -

Serial Security (s

Service MI-5

St 1-2-

(DST, Paris] (S)

SE T-3 -

U.S.

Embassy,

Department of

State,

Moscow, USSR

SE T-4 -

SF 1189-S

SF T-5 -

SF

2153-S

SF

I-6

NY 646-5

CS SF 2148-S*

SE T-8

CG 5824-5*

SF T-9 -

SF 2357-S

G

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32304455 Page 19

File Where

Located

100-1465-803

100-1465-811

100-1465-840

134-11A

134-809A

NY 134-70-1065

100-1465-815

100-1455-807

---

## Page 20

• FD,-204 (Re,v. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

cO DENTIAL

¿STICE

SECRE

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

SA WILBERT H. KEHE

MAR 1 6 1960

Field Office Fift#: 100-1465

Title:

JOHN ORION PITTMAN

Office:

Bureau File #:

SAN FRANCISCO

100-30067

Character:

Synopsis:

11110/47

CLASSIFIED BY 56085U0/md

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

(SAL)

Subject, his wife, and two children, reportedly are residing

in Flat ö, 9 Gorky Street, Moscow,

USSR.

subject reportedly

is engaged as a

Moscow correspondent for"The Worker" and

"People's World"

newspapers.

His assignment probably was

handled by Communist Party national leaders without con-

sultation with the editorial staff of "The Worker"

Subject reportedly may remain in Soviet Union for three

years.

-P* -

DETAILS:

AT SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA

I. BACKGROUND INFORMATION

SF I-I on October 1, 1959 advised that JOHN

PITTMAN, his wife, and two children arrived at London airport

on a flight from Paris, France, on September 30, 1959 at

11 p.m. While in the United Kingdom, Subject and his

family

resided

at the Mitre House, 180 Sussex Gardens,

London. Subject and his family departed London via Air

France en route to Paris on October 4, 1959 at 10 p.m.

The passport of subject and his wife contained no soviet

VISaS.S

CONFISENTIAL

SECREL

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its

contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

Do01d:32304455 Page 20

---

## Page 21

CURET

SE 100-1465

WHK : IMR

SE I-z on October 14, 1959 advised that JOHN

FilIMAN, his wife, and two children registered at the

Hotel Gallic, 14 rue de l'Arcade, Paris,

September 24, 1959.

They departed on the evening of

September 30,

on october die amen evenins,

France, on

1gss for London,

and returned from London

on october 4, 1959, at which time they returned to the

Hotel Gallic.

They left Paris on October 5, 1959 by air

for Moscow, USSR.

The visa applications for PITTMAN and his

MẪN

family enabling them to travel to Moscow were handled per-

sonally by the soviet diplomat IOURI ZOUEV

an attache

of the Soviet Embassy.

While in Paris, France, PITTMAN was

in contact with one MARCEL PRETECEILLE, a reporter for a

French Communist newspaper. 5)

SF T-3 On December 1, 1959 advised that JOHN

PITIMAN and his wife, MARGARETE PITTMAN, Were registered at

the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, Russia, as reporters for

"The Worker"

newspaper and the "people's World"

newspaper.

Subject and his wife had with them their two children, ages

8 and 6. PITTMAN has Passport #1741922, which reflects

that he was born September 17, 1905 at Atlanta, Georgia,

Mrs. PITTMAN bears Passport #1741921, which reflects that

she was born in Frankfurt, Germany, or October 7, 1919.

SF T-4 on December 1, 1959 advised that BETTY

WINTER, a Communist Party member in San Francisco, stated

on December I, 1959 that she had received a letter from

JOHN PITIMAN showing his return address as Flat 8, 9 Gorky

The letter reportedly advised WINTER

that PITTMAN had been employed as a

Worker"

and for the People worl 1

November 1, 1959.

SF I-5 on December 4, 1959 advised that JUANITA

WHEELER, a member of the Communist Party in San Francisco

and an employee of the "people's World" newspaper, stated

that she was corresponding with PITTMAN and that PITTMAN

would probably stay in Russia for three years.

WHEELER

commented that the PITTMANS were having trouble placing

their children in school in Russia and that they had leased

their house in San Francisco.

SECREL

Do01d:32304455 Page 21

---

