# docid-32328052

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-90068-10003

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-75147-210-77

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HAV

TO:

HO

TITLE:

DATE:

01/10/1956

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

AMERICAN GAMBLING ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

06/24/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

MEMO

DocId: 32328052 Page 1

---

## Page 2

AIL.

INFORMATI

ON

CONTAINED

SSIFIED

EXCEPT WHET

OTHERWISE

SHOWN

T: STANDÄRD FORM NO. 66

CONFIDENTIAL

Office Memorandum: UN 544 34018E GOVERNMENT

TO

Director, FBI

DECLASSIFIED BY

Du ..1= 18-91(F) DATES

i January 10, 1956

Havana,

Cuba

FROM

:

* Legal Attache, Havana, Cuba (1442)

SUBJECT:

INTERNATIONAL_CUBAN HOSPITAL SWEEPSTAKES

INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF LOTTERY TICKETS

7JU72/9

Reference Havana letter 12-8-55 captioned AMERICAN GAMBIING

ACTIVITIES IN CUBA, GIIF, and Bureau letter dated 12-20-55. (8),

PCI ANTONIO POUSA FRANK advised on January 9, 1956, that he had

received reliable information that the Oriental Park Race Track in Havana

was going broke under the management of Director JOSEPH G. IEASE and that

there is a good possibility that the Irack will close in the near future.

Source stated that the first three weeks of racing have resulted in large

losses to the Track and that the bills in connection with operation of the

Track are mounting to astronomical figures. Source stated that he also

received reliable information that Track officials are talking about

pot ting the iguance ali sle of Intermational buben dravital Sweete ken

tickets to get additional revenue to support the Track.

Source advised

that the individual at the Track who is in charge of having the Sweepstakes o

tickets printed is a friend of his and that he will follow this matter

1120/86-01065693/in/sz

closely. (10

No indication has been received by the Havana Office of possible

or anticipated trensportation of Cuban Sweepstakes tickets to the United

States.

On January 9, 1956, however, Lt. HERBERTO HERNANDEZ, head of the

Alien Control Section, Cuban National, Police, confidentially advised that

he had received a communication from Miami Beach Chief of Police ROVEO

SHEPHERD asking information concerning possible charges against GEORGE

Reason • FCIM U 1-2.4.2

LEVINE and SALVATORE GRANEULO by the Cuban National Police. Lit. HERNANDEZ

Date of Review -

described this request as a "feeler" inasmuch as he had received other

information fron Florida indicating that both liVINe and GRAVELLO are very

anxious to return to Cuba.

All significant developments with reference to the above will

be immediately reported by the Havana Office.

requested to furnish from its files any derogatory. information with reference

to LEASE or information connecting him with underworld elements.

copies of this letter are attached for forwarding to the Miami and New

York Offices for information.

A description

is as follows:

PEASE from personal interview and observation

148119

62-25147-210-78

_Name

Address

inspend

JOSEPH GA SEASE

Hot el Nacional,

NDEXED - T Havana, Cuba - formerly

resided Walden, New York

and Vancouver,

British

Columbia, Canada

• JAN 12 195

AAC: JES

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32328052

Page 2

---

