# docid-32306917

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10291-10057

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3267-693

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DODGE, HAROLD F.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/23/1966

PAGES:

59

SUBJECTS:

JRO, RES, ASSOC, B/F INT, TELCAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 1A, INDEX PAGESa-c

v9.1

DocId: 32306917

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LA 92-113

Two copies of letterhead memorandum setting forth

characterization of informants used in this report.

ADMINISTRATIVE

The identities of the individuals who furnished

information set out in this report which must not be disclosed

except upon issuance of a subpoena duces tecum, are as follows:

Fidelity Bank, Beverly Hills, California, DORIS

SCHMIDT, Statement Department.

Union Bank, 8th and Hill Streets, VICKIE GUERRA and

BETTY SIDLER, Statement Department.

General Telephone Company, Santa Monica, California,

CSLA 4143-S.

Pacific Telephone Company, Los Angeles, California,

CSIA 4178-S.

Mountain States Telephone Company, Phoenix, Arizona,

RUTH BLAIR, Security Office.

Pacific Telephone Company, Sacramento, California,

CSSE 50-X.

By airtel dated 2/2/66 the Las Vegas Office advised

that WAYNE MC DORMAN, Investigator,

is considering the feasibility of enlarging Nevada's so-called

"Black Book"

and that JOHN ROSSELLI is one of those individuals

under consideration for inclusion in this book. The Las Vegas

Office requested copies of the most recent photographs of

Rossault, and a complete description which were fürnished the Las

Vegas Office on 2/0/00.

the garage and is a general handyman at

Apartments where ROSSELLI resides, stated that recently ROSSELLI

has employed a maid, ROSA GILES,

on occasion to clean his

apartment. She works full time

for one of the other tenants

= B -

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306917 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 92-113

in the building.

She is part Indian and is about 51 years

old.

She drives a white Chevrolet bearing California license

QKV 782.

PCI

stated that ROSA GILES has a key to ROSSELLI'S

apartment and GILES has told PCI that ROSSELLI is very particu-

lar that she does not let anyone into his apartment.

On

another occasion GILES, who is quite friendly with PCI, told

him that she has known

1 ROSSELLI for nearly 20 years.

On 12/19/65 GILES permitted PCI to enter ROSSELLI's

apartment for a few minutes when RossElLI was away. Pel stated

that the apartment is very beautifully furnished and appears

to have quite expensive furniture.

The records of the Registrar of Voters for Los

Angeles County reflect that ROSA LEE GILES registered to vote

on 2/29/04, at which time her address was 346 East 84th Street.

She stated

she was born in Georgia, is 5'71" tall, and a cook

by occupation.

On 12/30/65 IC MILLARD I. ANDERSON ascertained from

that ROSA

She is single,

Security No. 568-24-4256.

On 1/11/66 PCI WARREN advised that ROSSELLI gets his

car serviced at Jules Meyers Pontiac located at the corner of

Santa Monica and Westwood Boulevards, West Los Angeles.

AFFILIATIONS WITH LA COSA NOSTRA MEMBERS

Information set out below which was furnished by

LA 4448-C-TE and LA 4412-C-TE, who are sensitive sources,

should not be reported in the

details of a report.

resides most of the time in the Los Angeles area, is

a member

of the Chicago "Brugad" of La Cosa Nostra (ICN).

Source

-C-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306917 Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA 92-113

advised that ROSSELLI is one of the

but belongs to the Chicago "Brugad „ranking members of ICN

According to this

"organizationalI 1s one of the most powerful men in the

on the West Coast and handles interests of the

Chicago

"Brugad" in Las Vegas, Nevada.

On 3/4/64 this source advised that ROSSELLI is one

of the most powerful and influential men in LCN. He is

considered one of the sharpest and most intelligent men in this

organization:

He is highly respected and frequently consulted

relative to and handles matters of highest importance and

greatest delicacy.

but later transfered to the chiber rue to Angeles "Brusad"

On 2/16/65 LA 4448-C-TE advised that FRANK

BOMPENSIBRO waS the

"Capo Regime"

in charge of the San Diego

group of ICN some years ago. When he was sentenced to state

prison in about 1955, he was succeeded in this post by

ANTHONY MIRABILE, who held this post until his death in

December, 1958.

Source

advised that BOMPENSIERO is presently a

Diego "Capo Regima."

LA 4412-C-TE furnished the following information

concerning a conversation he had with FRANK BOMPENSIERO on

12/4/65:

BOMPENSIERO stated that although they (LCN) must

ask the "boss" before moving into anything, he does not have

respect for FRANK DESIMONE and therefore he will ask only one

man, "GIOVANNI" (JOHN ROSSELLI).

Using the Italian language, BOMPENSIERO stated that

the "Boss" called him from Detroit not too long ago and asked

him to do him a favor commenting.

"I know that you can do it."

BOMPENSIERO said he told him that,

"I ain't nothin'...only a

"I didn't go the other route

want you to handle this."

can. BOMPENSIERO Said,

"You don't know how happy I've been

since that call. I don't have to ask ADAMO, the 'blind guy'

(DESIMONE), or the 'cigar' (LICAIA)... only one guy I nave to

clear with... GIOVANNI (ROSSELLI) •

-D -

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306917

Page 4

---

## Page 5

LA 92-113

maladrino,"

To this LUIGI MERLI commented to informant, "maladrino,

which, according to informant in Italian means

"at top,

has proven self, belongs."

He was referring to

BOMPENSIERO.

BOMPENSIERO said that he has to meet "GIOVANNI"

early this morning (12/6/65) to talk to him about this matter

and, since he had to catch a plane for Mexico City at 10:00 AM

from san Diego,

he will meet GIOVANNI

"half way" (between

San Diego and Los Angeles.

BOMPENSIERO also stated that he still meets "GIOVANNI"

every week "but it's no good where we were before" (Brown

verby in Beverly Hills because he and FRATIANNO were shaker

down in there by Los Angeles Police Department Intelligence

recently). He stated that they are looking for a new place

to meet.

On 11/17/65 informant advised that on the night of

11/16/65 FRANK BOMPENSIERd had contacted informant to

arrange a meeting with him. On the night of 11/16/65, informant

met with FRANK BOMPENSIERO and JAMES

"THE WEASEL" FRATIANNO

at the Villa Capri Restaurant in Hollywood, California.

On this occasion, both BOMPENSIERO and FRATIANNO

spoke freely to informant of the fact that they were partners

along with FRANK LA PORTE of Chicago in the Fratianno trucking

companies. They both also mentioned that they are in regular

contact with JOHN ROSSELLI and that ROSSELLI also has some

sort of interest in this trucking operation.

Informant noted

that this was the first time that BOMPENSIERO and FRATIANNO

had, personally, stated this fact to informant.

Informant

had

been advised by JOSEPH LIMANDRI and "Capo" JOSEPH ADAMO

in San Diego that BOMPENSIERO, FRATIANNO, and LA PORIE were

associated together in the Fratianno trucking companies;

however, neither BOMPENSIERO nor FRATIANNO, themselves, had

previously made this statement to informant.

had recently been contacted by the

"Brugad,

" JOSEPH ZERILLI. ZERILLI, according to BOMPENSIERO,

is an LCN "commissione" member.

According to BOMPENSIERO,

ZERILLI did not have BOMPENSIERO's telephone number as he had

moved a couple of times within recent months. ZERILLI called

- E

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306917 Page 5

---

## Page 6

pis

LA 92-113

a contact of his in il centro, California (not further identi-

fied).

This individual called "Capo" JOSEPH ADAMO in San

Diego and requested ADAMO to contact BOMPENSIERO and ask

BOMPENSIERO to call ZERILLI.

ADAMO was given a telephone

number at which ZERILLI could be reached.

BOMPENSIERO stated that he did call ZERILLI whom he

BOMPENSIERO told informant that ZERILLI

has known fOr TRANK, will you do me a lavor I would like

said to him,

you to take

care of

something for me."

BOMPENSIERO stated that

neoldier old ZERIllI that he was no longer a "Capo" but only a

and that this matter would probably have to be

cleared with his "Boss" FRANK DESIMONE and his "Capo" JOSEPH

ZERILLI then told BOMPENSIERO,

"Don't worry about

I'll handle anything that comes up."

BOMPENSIERO said

he then told ZERILLI that he would give the matter some thought

and would recontact him.

BOMPENSIERO told informant that he desired to discuss

this matter with JOHN ROSSELLI and was going to try to see

ROSSELLI, if possible, before he (BOMPENSIERO) left for Mexico

City on 12/6/65.

BOMPENSIERO did not discuss further specifics of

this matter with informant nor was it possible for informant

to ask any further questions in connection with it.

BOMPENSIERO did, however, indicate that ZERILLI's request

related in some way to an LCN matter.

On 12/6/65 informant advised that he had dinner at

the BOMPENSIERO residence on the night of 12/5/65: BOMPENSIERO

told informant that he had not been able to get in touch with

JOHN ROSSELLI for the past several days. He had learned, he

claimed, that ROSSELLI had returned to the Chicago, Illinois,

area sometime after the death of MURRAY HUMPHRIES and did not

know if he had returned to the Los

Angeles area.

On 12/5/65 BOMPENSIERO told informant that he wanted

to see ROSSELLI about the "ZERILLI matter" if possible before

he left for Mexico City and would leave for Mexico City either

the morning or the night of 12/6/65.

-F-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306917 Page 6

---

## Page 7

LA 92-113

BOMPENSIERO again told informant he would be in

Mexico City for most of the week.

He also stated that he

(BOMPENSIERO) intended to come to Los Angeles to see JOHN

ROSSELLI some time soon after his return to Mexico City and

at that time he would contact informant so they could also

get together while BOMPENSIERO was in Los Angeles.

BOMPENSIERO then stated that DESIMONE was afraid

to make a real decision on his own and always discussed such

matters with JOHN ROSSELLI.

set MS then se that the need e

real BOSS, ROSSELLI

actually is JOHN ROSSELLI.

Informant noted that normally such comments from

BOMPENSIERO would be highly dangerous.

However, according

to informant, rossEubt is the real power in this area, and

DUMPENSLERO is closely associated with ROSSELLI. In addition,

informant pointed out, before his imprisonment,

BOMPENSIERO

had been a ranking LCN "member" in Southern California and

has highly placed, ranking ICN friends throughout the country.

It is noted that informant has previously identified

the Brown Derby Restaurant in Beverly Hills, California, as

a

"meeting place" used by FRANK BOMPENSIERO

as well as JOHN

ROSSELLI.

Informant

has also previously furnished specifics

relative

to several "meets" held or planned to be held at

this restaurant between ROSSELLI and BOMPENSIERO.

In this same connection, informant advised that

during the course of his discussions with FRANK BOMPENSIERO

in San Diego on 12/4-5/65, BOMPENSIERO made several references

to the fact that he continued to meet with JOHN ROSSELLI on

about a weekly basis.

BOMPENSIERO then told informant that he and ROSSELLI

had changed their "meeting place" as

"We can't use the Brown

Derby anymore.

It's no good anymore. We have to set up a new

place."

BOMPENSIERO did not tell informant why this "meeting

place" was no longer being used by him.

From the remarks he

made, however, informant was of the impression that he had not

finalized details and specifics of a new

"meeting place."

- G -

CCVER PAGE

DocId: 32306917 Page 7

---

## Page 8

LA 92-113

Before informant left for Los Angeles on the night

of 12/5/65, BOMPENSIERO again told him that he was definitely

going to Mexico City n Monday, 12/6/65. He again stated

that he would be gone most of

not a in a veer;

this week, but that

his return he would come to Los Angeles

to meet with JOHN

ROSSELLI.

BOMPENSIERO told informant that he would plan on

meeting with informant also when he was in the Los Angeles

area.

While informant was with FRATIANNO and BOMPENSIERO

on the morning of 1/18/66, they discussed the following matter

with informant, requesting him to treat it in the strictest

of confidence.

Both BOMPENSIERO and FRATIANNO spoke in extremely

critical and profane terms of HAROLD "HAPPY" MELTZER and

LOUIS TOM DRAGNA and his father, THOMAS F. DRAGNA. FRATIANNO,

in particular, was quite bitter

in his comments.

FRATIANNO reminded informant that prior to his

(FRATIANNO's) imprisonment in the mid-1950s, he had always

been close to the DRAGNAs, particularly JACK DRAGNA (deceased

"Boss") and had always been fair in his dealings with them.

Prior to his imprisonment, FRATIANNO noted that

he had been a

"Capo." FRATIANNO reminded informant that the

"regimes" led

"'active FRATIANNO) and BOMPENSIERO had bees farally "tost

regimes in the

LOS Angeles

DRAGNA had always been "cut in" to all their operations and

this had always been a highly prosperous association.

"had a lot going."

i do a into a note eate in the period at

numerous bookies and gambling man

in the Los Angeles area, that he had set up a

legitimate business for

himself in the garment industry in

Los Angeles, and that his operation had been highly prosperous.

FRATIANNO, it was the responsibility and duty of

DRAGNA to

see that his (FRATIANO's operation was handled for

him and that the proceeds from this operation be given to his

wife, JEWEL FRATIANNO.

Even without a successful operation,

it was still the duty of DRAGNA to see that his wife, JeWeL,

was taken care of.

-H -

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306917

Page 8

---

## Page 9

LA 92-113

FRATIANNO claimed to informant that he received

assurances from JACK DRAGNA that this would be done.

Instead, according to FRATIANNO, this was not done.

His wife did not receive any appreciable proceeds from "those

things I had going for me."

DRAGNAs that she would "be taken care of" through

His wife, JEWEL, was toAd by the

MELTZER.

According to FRATIANNO, JEWEL was given a pittance,

$50 or $75 a week through MELTZER--and this for only a few

months.

nothing remained of

making a "pest" of herself in continuing to come to him.

FRATIANNO then noted that when he finally got out of

prison, that it was LOUIS TOM DRAGNA that had a legitimate

business in the garment industry in Los Angeles.

He also

noted that it was now. "HAPPY" MELTZER that had the "most going

for him"--taking cuts from bookies and being involved in money

loaning deals.

He pointed out that MELTZER had always "fronted"

for the DRAGNAs and

that they were sharing in MELTZER's

operations.

FRATIANNO took the position, according to intormant.

that the operation he (FRATIANNO hac

once developed had been,

in effect, taken over by the DRAGNAs and their associate,

MELTZER.

Both FRATIANNO and BOMPENSIERO then told informant

that BOMPENSIERO, too, had a profitable operation going in

been allowed to dissipate and disintegrate and he, too, had

Seen to son.

san Diego prior to his imprisonment and this operation had

"let down" by the 'family."

FRATIANNO and BOMPENSIERO then indicated to informant

that the reasons they had been making their inquiries with

SAM LAZES, WILLIE ZEVON, ELI LUBIN, GEORGE GORDON, etc., was

to ascertain the nature

and extent of theoperations of the

DRAGNAS and MELTZER.

-I-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306917 Page 9

---

## Page 10

LA 92-113

FRATIANNO and BOMPENSIERO then told informant that

they had discussed this matter at some length with JCHN

ROSSELLI. They had not, as yet,

made any move and did not

intend to make any move

until such time as they ascertained

more specifies relative to the operations of MELTZER.

After thoy develop the information they want,

FRAIANNO and SCENS NO told informant thameety intend to

contact "Boss" FRANK DESIMONE and request a

with LOUIS

TOM and THOMAS F. DRAGNA.

They intend to confront them with

what they referred to as

the facts relating to what FRATIANNO considers as an

the "shabby treatment" they finsult"

to his wife by MELTZER, and demand some sort of redress.

Before BOMPENSIERO and FRATIANNO left,

they again

requested informant to treat their conversation in the strictest

of confidence.

They asked informant to be alert to any

information relating to the operations of MELIZER and the

DRAGNAs and to relay such information to them on the occasion

of their next contact.

Informant noted that both FRATIANNO and BOMPENSIERO

have gone to some lengths to re-establish close and regular

contact with him.

Both continue to be insistent that informant

visit them at their respective residences whenever he might.

find it convenient to do so.

Part of the reason,

according

to informant, is the fact that neither BOMPENSIERO nor

FRATIANNO have the contacts that informant has in the Los

Angeles area.

Informant is in a position to know certain

information desired by both of them. Informant has the phone

numbers and means of contact with various individuals in this

area that neither BOMPENSIERO nor FRATIANNO have. In addition,

informant, BOMPENSIERO,

and FRATIANNO all have close, long-

standing identity with JOHN RossEll.

Informant stated that it is his opinion that

BOMPENSIERO and FRATIANNO are slowly and cautiously making a

bid for a shift of leadership in which

identified in the Los Angeles

"Brugad,"he or both would be

Informant emphasized

that this was only his opinion--it was not based on direct

statements made by BOMPENSIERO or FRATIANNO, but rather on

indirect statements.

They are openly critical of

"Capos"

men like

JOSEPH ADAMO and ANGELO POLIZZI and even "Under-boss"

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306917 Page 10

---

## Page 11

LA 92-113

(Thur.) 9/9/65

7:30 AM (ROSSELLI went to Las Vegas via

airlines in morning and returned to

Los Angeles in late afternoon)

(Fri) 9/10/65

7:38 AM (ROSSELLI at Friars Club in afternoon)

(LA 4448-C-TE as previously reported in this investi-

gation, advised that BOMPENSIERO stated he had met with JOHN

ROSSELLI in Los Angeles on 9/11/65 and that he had been planning

on seeing ROSSELLI on Friday 9/10/65 but something had come

up and so he made it on Saturday, 9/11/65, instead.)

(Thur) 9/23/65

(Wed) 9/29/65

(ROSSELLI at Friars Club in afternoon)

Tues) 10/5/65

"

"

Fri) 10/8/65

"

Wed 10/13/65

(ROSSELLI at Friars Club on 10/11/65

and 10/14/65)

On 7/17/65 MARIA GAVIN's telephone account was

charged with a call to the Friar's

Club, Beverly Hills, Cali-

fornia, telephone number 273-0850.

The San Diego Office also advised that on 8/18/65

the account for telephone number 279-2484, listed to MARY ANN

(when in Los Angeles) spends nearly every afternoon at the

Friars Club.

INFORMANTS

LA T-1

LA I-2

LA I-3

LA I-4

LA T-5

LA 4732-PC

CSIA 4268-C

IV 10-C

LA 4710-PC

LA 4746-PC

-I-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306917 Page 11

---

## Page 12

LA 92-113

INFORMANTS (continued)

LA T-6

LA T-T

IA T-8

LA T-9

LA T-10

LA T-11

LA T-12

LA T-13

LA T-14

LA T-15

LA I-16

LA T-17

LA I-18

LA T-19

LA T-20

LA I-21

LA T-22

LA 4444-0

BERNARD WARREN, PCI

Los Angeles, California

LA 4129-C

IA 4444-C

LA 4738-PC

CLAIRE KARIVIEN

Los Angeles, California

CSIA 4268-C

LA 4746-PC

LA 4732-PC

BERNARD WARREN, PCI

Los Angeles, California

LA 4710-.PC

LA 4732-PC

IA 4367-C-TE

LA 4691-PC

IV 148-C-TE

IA 4607-0

LA 4145-C

LEADS

LAS VEGAS

-M -

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306917 Page 12

---

