JFK. Assassination System Date: 4/3/2015
Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10281-10120
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 62-9-45-129
Document Information
ORIGINATOR; — FBI
FROM: NAIL, CHARLES W. JR.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 03/01/1962
| PAGES: 9
SUBJECTS :
JEST, ASSOC, THP, GAMBLING ACT, SA, TX
: DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
| CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATEOF LASTREVIEW: 02/18/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

v9

DocId:32302400 Page 1


SA 92-142

INFORMANTS _
Careful consideration has been given to each
source concealed and T symbols were utilized only in those
instances where the identity of the source must be protected.

SA T-1 is RALPH E. HEWGLY and his wife MARJ HEWGLY
who are small book operators in San Antonio.

SA T-2 is HUGH DICKEY formerly a small time gambler
in San Antonio.

SA T-3 is JACK WESTERN a small time gambler in
San Antonio.

SA T-4 is Captain BOB ALLEN, Head of the Vice
Squad, San Antonio Police Department.

SA T-5 is GEORGE W. COLLIER, a small time gambler
in San Antonio.

SA T-6 is ADRIAN SMITH "CURLY" CAVITT, a gambler
at McAllen, Texas.

SA T-7 1s SA 547-C, Reynosa, Mexico.
SA T-8 is PCI CHARLES D. MASTELLER, McAllen, Texas.
SA T-9 is PCI LUZ GONZALES, Pharr, Texas.
ADMINISTRATIVE
As per Bureau instructions, this report sets out
erime conditions in the San Antonio Division. These reports
are to be submitted on a semi-annual basis and according

to referenced Bureau airtel, the next report will be submitted
11/1/62.

-~-Al -
COVER PAGE

u aneerene 7 esesseabeseatsees sti we

euiseesstsry ~

genennsaaees

DocId:32302400 Page 2
