# docid-32290939-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10206-10215

HQ

92-2781-612

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, TP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

09/28/1962

3

LST, ASSOC, ACT (

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

"ted

v9.1

40

---

## Page 2

PD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

Approved:

C C a Wick!

FBI

Date:

9/28/62

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM:

SAC,. TAMPA (92-1).

SANTO TRAFTICANTE, JR., aka

(00: TP)

WEEKLY SUMMARY AIRTEL

On 9/18/62, DOMINICK LA ROCA, PCI (Protect) , advised

subject was in the Columbia Restaurant, Tampa, at 4:55 P.M.

Source advised two unknown white males had been in the

restaurant and upon leaving, one of the men spoke to subject.

Source said that two men got into a 1961 or 1961 bluish

Cadillac bearing 1962 Florida license 6WW-1903.

On 9/20/62, the same source advised subject's

close

associate, JAMES LONGO, had been in the Columbia

Restaurant on day of September 20, alone.

On 9/24/62, Bureau agents observed LONGO arrive

at Columbia Restaurant in the afternoon of 9/24/62, and

and left alone by 2:45 P.M.

On 9/24/62, PCI LA ROCA, as above, advised subject

was observed at 5:05 P.M., at the Columbia Restaurant and

in the company of JAMES LONGO and CASIMIRO B. HERNANDEZ, aka

On 9/25/62, agents of the Tampa Office observed

JAMES C. LONGO alone

in the Columbia Restaurant and on the

afternoon of same date observed him on a front porch of,

and in contact with, SALVATORE SCAGLIONE, 2301 10th Avenue,

Tampa.

3

Bureau (EM)

2

Houston

REC 80 92-2781-612

2 = Miami

(92-88)

1 - Tampa

18 OCT 1 1962

SJL:jod

(8)

AIRTEL"

Sent

M

Per -

Special Agent in Charge

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

Efforts to locate subject in Tampa on 9/25/62

and 9/26/62, through sources and contacts, negative.

On 9/27/62, pretext call made to subject's

residence,

and usual

answer obtained,

that residents would have to be

contacted after 7:00 P.M.

On the same date subject's wife, JOSEPHINE TRAFFICANTE;

driving white Crysler,

observed to leave residence alone impala still in garage.

and

the same time white Chevrolet

and '1962 Ford usually driven by son-in-law, AUGUST PANIELLO,

still at residence.

WILLIE MAE JACKSON,

PCI, (Protect), maid at

subject's residence, advised

subject not presently at his

residence.

On 9/27/62, ELMIRA HERNANDEZ, Part-owner.

Columbia

Restaurant, advised

subject has not been around Columbia

and LONGO has

been

alone for several days

when at Columbia.

On 9/27/62, JACK de la LLANA, Intelligence Unit,

Tampa PD, advised he

had received information in the past,

to which

he had not attached any significance, and he

did not know if there was any significance to

same, but it

was to the effect that the Chief Criminal Deputy Sheriff,

LLOYD FRAZIER, at Houston, Texas, had been making inquiries

of Tampa PD as

to the subject, and de la LLANA stated

that subject had been reportedly seen or connected with

someone in Houston, Texas, atdthe Chief Criminal Deputy Sherifi

was making general

subject's activities. De la LLANA stated he forwarded

a guiries

inquiries in the Tampa PD concernin

photograph and background concerning subject to the Sheriff's

Office, at Houston, Texas.

On 9/27/62, the Miami Office advised subject had.

been located in Miami.

' - 2.

---

