JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10282-10046 ,
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2914-150
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, PG
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 05/29/1961

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

1

GM, ASSOC, HORSE ROOM, EDISON EXCHANGE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

‘4

Redact

05/14/1998

INDEFINITE,

vol

| Docld:32302534 Page 1

50


FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

_ Transmit the following in

He

PBI

Date: 5/29/61

(Type in plain text of code)

AIRTEL

pied ACesessopea (Rtepseyeoey nd fee penpanctsresene etceeors

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Seg nae ran genspungennt und anton nes yanijveayungeea nad ae ens #as=atanea¥ansehafasyatssn lnyatapsedtssesssfae7ai ane; lnzetsenessaesss/nssaranmataenessefanrat eb ee ae ee a

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: SAC, PITTSBURGH

SUBJECT: GABRIEL ARINO, aka. .
ANE MANNARINO

On 5/29/61, PCI JAMES W. BURGART, New Kensington, Pa., advised
SA THOMAS Gs FORSYTH ILI:

The MANNARINO controlled horse-room on the second floor at
1195=5th Avenue, New Kensington, receives results from
Weirton, W. Va. They have a direct wire to a store in that
town which is ostensibly a televésion repair shop but is
actually a race result relay station. The direct wire has
an Edison (New Kensington) exchange and is very expensive.
Although it is generally known that this horse-room is a
MANNARINO operation, it is difficult to say who fronts it. for
them, because personnel changes are fairly frequent. An
attempt will be made to learn the Edison telephone number
used in Weirton and the identity of the individual to whom
it is billed, believed to be ANDY MANGINI, who holds a,
Federal Wagering Tax Stamp.

BOTH SUBJECTS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS

(Ej poroas {3 - go-o914} 7
2 = Pittsburgh {t - gacees) el
1 = 928228

{0
CF ail REC: 4 vet

Woo i sun 2 199)
(0, ie Wi ; Pn

c ee
af } &
Approved: ny. a aie
55 JUN  Spepteh Asett in Charge

DocId:32302534 Page 2

Ge~ 29 [fb —

D a

COPY FI.

8
G
ba

BCOR

URR

