# docid-32289893

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10202-10169

HQ

92-3182-609

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 08/24/1962

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

GAL, ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32289893

Page 1

223

---

## Page 2

AGATION

OSTICE

COMMUNI

SECTION

AUG 241967

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmost

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahsn-

MI. Conrad.

Vr. Evanni

Mr. Malora

Mr. Rosen

DEFERRED 8-24-62 5-9111115-09 AM LJC

Mr.

Mr. Tavel

Sullivan.

Mr. Trotter-

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-3182/

Tele, Room.

Miss Holmes.

FROM SAC,

CHICAGO /92-373/

Miss Gandy-

GUS ALEX, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY •

GEORGE N. SEELT, PCI, ADVISED THAT ON SATURDAY,

AUGUST EIGHTEEN LAST, ALEX, SUZANNE FEUGER, AND HUNRY SUSK

WERE AT THE FRENCH ROOM OF THE HAFTFORD PLAZA RESTAURANT.

PCI SAID HE IS PERSONALLY ACQUAINTED WITH SUSK AND, THEREFORE,

APPROACHED SUSK AT THE RESTAURANT AND THAT SUSK THEN

INTRODUCED ALEX TO HIM UNDER THE NOME OF MR. BROWN. PCI

SAID THAT SINCE HE HAS NOW HAD AN INTRODUCTION TO ALEX,

ALEX MAY BE MORE FRIENDLY IN THE FUTURE WHEN HE VISITS THE

RESTAURANT •

PCI FURTHER ADVISED THAT ALEX MENTIONED TO HIM THAT HE I

HAD BEEN AT THE FLYING CARPET LOUNGE AND ALSO AT HOLIDAY INNO

BOTH OF WHICH RESTAURANTS ARE OPERATED BY PCI-S EMPLOYER.

ALEX TOLD SEELT THAT HE HAD SEEN FREDDIE SCHULTZ AT THE

FLYING CARPET LOUNGE RECENTLY AND

122-31872

ALEX-S TABLE THERE. SCHULTZ IS ALSO A POI OF THIS OFFICE AND

WAS FORMERLY EMPLOYED. AT THE HARTFORD PLAZA RESTAURANT WHERE

HE PERSONALLY WAITED ON ALEXO

REG- 1 g AUG 24 1962

ALEX ARMED

AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

1.01.

END

ANDS HO AÚG 2 91962

DocId: 32289893 Page 2

---

