# docid-32300695

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10277-10030

RECORD SERIES: FBI

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2918-14

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/05/1958

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS:

SMO, BKG, ASSOC, HAZIDAKIS, MIKE GEORGE, REL, DESCR,

B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO, LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32300695

Page 1

7

---

## Page 2

STANI

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

Director, FBI

CONFIDENTIAL

DATE:

3/5/58

FROM

/ Pittsburgh (92-228)

AR

00 - Pittsburgh

Rerep of SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE, Pittsburgh, 2/14/58.

Enclosed are four copies of a laterhead memorandum

requesting background investigation in Athens and Perias.

Greece, concerning MIKE GEQRGEKHAZIDAKIS, an associate of

the MANNARINO brothers. (@ >*

PA

B. APPROX 1900

As noted in rerep HAZIDAKIS is deeply involved in gambling

activities of the MANNARINO organization and it is felt

that the background information requested in the enclosed

memorandum, if obtained discreetly, would be most helpful

when interviewing HAZIDAKIS at a later date for the purpose

of developing him as an informant. *Consequently the Bureau

Is asked to have the investigation conducted through proper

Liaison in Greece LAn)

The source referred

i to in the enclosed memorandum is MIKE

ZERVOS, an admitted New Kensington, Pa. numbers writer

and long time acquaintance of MIKE GEORGE HAZIDAKIS.

RECORDS, PITTSBURGH POLIÇE DEPARTMENT DISCLOSE SUBJECT

ARRESTED 1931 AS SUSRICIOUS PERSON AND FOR CARRYING CONCEALED

WEAPON; CONSEQUENTLY, HE SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND

DANGEROUS.

URE

- Bureau (Enca 4) ne

3

-

Pittsburgh

1-92-236

EX. - 131

RGD : mz

(5)

04326

Classife

Declass

14 Cn

Betr

25/86

ION CON

ED

THE

WISE

/ REC- 50

EX. - 131

22-246.

MAR MY 1958 °

8-16

JAI

DocId: 32300695

Page 2

---

