# docid-32307509

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10292-10212

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-456

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/21/1961

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, ASSOC, EMP, MEETING

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

02/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32307509

Page !

437

---

## Page 2

4-41

(Rev. 6-2=01)"

DECODE

PY

Radio

Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -_

Callahan

Conradi

Evanst

Malores

Robers

Tallin

*Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

DEFERRED 10-21-61

5:05 PM RJL

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO

211714

let-CG

10/35/68

SAMUEL N

GIANCANA, AKA., AR. DAILY SUMMARY. YOU HAVE BEEN

PREVIOUSLY ADVISED OF THE FACT THAT CG 6486-0* HAS STATED ON

SEVERAL OCCASIONS OF AN ASSOCIATION BETWEEN GIANCANA AND ANTHONY

GIROLAMI, ALDERMAN, TWENTYEIGHT WARD, CHICAGO, AND RECENTLY

APPOINTED AS CLERK OF THE PROBATE COURT OF COOK COUNTY.

GIROLAMI WAS OBSERVED BY BUAGENTS ON ONE OCCASION RECENTLY

MAKING CONTACT WITH DOMINIC BLASI NEAR THE ARMORY LOUNGE

APPARENTLY IN PROCESS OF MAKING CONTACT WITH GIANCANA. GIROLAMI

HAS BEEN UNDER DEVELOPMENT FOR SOME TIME BY SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER

AS A POI. YESTERDAY, AFTER SUFFICIENT TIME HAD ELAPSED SO AS

NOT TO JEOPARDIZE THE SOURCE, GIROLAMI WAS CONTACTED BY BUAGENTS

ROEMER AND RALPH R. HILL WITH THE VIEW TOWARD ESTABLISHING HIS

RELATIONSHIP AND ACTIVITIES WITH GIANCANA AND OTHEP HOODLUMS

SUCH AS MURRAY HUMPHREYS, ET AL. HE WAS TOLD THAT "NUMEROUS

PERSONS" HAD ADVISED OVER THE MONTHS THAT HE, GIROLAMI, WAS

BECOMING CLOSE TO SUCH PEOPLE AS GIANCANA, ET AL. HE WAS NOT

TOLD OF THE NATURE.OF THE INFORMATION FURNISHED BY THESE PERSONS,

AND WAS TOLD THAT HIS COOPERATION WAS. DESIRED IN FURNISHING HIS

INTERPRETATION OF HIS RELATIONSHIP WITH GIANCANA. HE THEN

ADMITTED THAT HE

HINEW "MOL," (MOST USED ALIAS OF GIANCANA

AND HAD MET WITHON SEVERAL OCCASIONS DURING THE PAST SEVERAL

MONTHS.

HE SAID THE MEETING WAS ALWAYS PRECEDED BY A PHONE

CALL FROM SOMEONE TO MEET GIANCANA AT A DESIGNATED LOCATION.

HE DESCRIBED THE

REASONS FOR SOME OF THESE MEETINGS AS FOLLOWS:

ALL

INFORMATION CONTAINED

EX. 110

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

23471-1570

DATE 4-20-94j

BYSP5RJ6/

TREG LA

COL

JO 0GT PUR

pare

4 0C7 3 1 1961

a he all gene oo prote in he breamera so essentinated outside the Bureau, is is 848

ested that it be suitably

DocId: 32307509 Page 2

---

## Page 3

° 4-41 (Rev. 6-2=61) °

DECODED COPY

Radio

Teletype

Tolson

Belmont -

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad'

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram.

Gandy

PAGE TWO FROM SAC CHICAGO 211714

ONE, GIANCANA DESIRED ACTION TO QUASH REVOCATION PROCEEDINGS

AGAINST A TAVERN OPERATOR WHOSE LICENSE WAS UNDER FIRE. TWO,

GIANCANA CONTACTED GIROLAMI TO ASCERTAIN WHAT GIROLAMI KNEW

ABOUT SA ROEMER. THREE, GIANCANA ADVISED GIROLAMI THAT IN

VIEW OF NEWSPAPER PUBLICITY CONCERNING JACK CERONE, JR., IT

WAS NOT NECESSARY FOR GIROLAVI TO FURTHER SPONSOR CERONE,

JRO, FOR BAILIFF OF CHICAGO MUNICIPAL COURT. GIROLAMI TOLD

GIANCANA THAT THIS WAS NOT NECESSARY, AND HE WOULD CONTINUE

HIS SPONSORSHIP OF CERONE, WHICH PLACED GIROLAMI IN GOOD

STEAD WITH GIANCANA. ARRANGEMENTS MADE FOR FURTHER INTERVIEW

OF GIROLAMI THIS DATE, IN THAT YESTERDAYS INTERVIEW WAS

TERMINATED BY AN APPOINTMENT OF GIROLAMI. EFFORTS WILL BE

MADE TO ASCERTAIN FULL DETAILS OF REASONS FOR GIANCANA'S

INTEREST IN SA ROEMER. IT IS FEET THAT GIROLAMI, IF COMPLETELY

COOPERATIVE, COULD DEVELOP INTO A VALUABLE SOURCE OF INFORMATION,

AND FOR THAT REASON THIS IS BEING FOLLOWED CLOSELY. ARMED

AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED:

6:29 CTF

¡the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl

araphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems

DocId: 32307509

Page 3

---

