JFK Assassination System Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form
~ Agency Information
. AGENCY: FBI.
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10284-10215
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 92-6054-212
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HOTOPP, HAROLD T.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE;
DATE: 01/11/1963
“PAGES: 9
SUBJECTS :
LCN, OC, GAMBLING, HOODLUMS, CRIMINAL ACT, KY
AREA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/22/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1
DocId:32303703 Page 1



FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

LOUISVILLE NEW YORK. 1/11/6 7/2/62 - 1 6
TITLE OF CASE : REPORT MADE BY L AUe3 TYPED BY
3A HAROLD T, HOTOPP vrh.
THE’ CRIMINAL "COMMISSION"; CHARACTER OF CASE
ET AL
LOUISVILLE DIVISION
A-R; CONSPIRACY
- REFERENCES
Report. of SA HARCLD T, HOTOPP, dated 5/9/62, at Louisville;
Report~of SA JAMES P. FLYNN, dated 6/29/62, at New York; _

louisville letter to New York dated 8/28/62, (Interoffice );
New York teletype to Albany dated 1/9/63, (Interoffice).

-RUC- —

ENCLOSURES: TO BUREAU: Original and one (1) copy of letterhead /*
See TO BUREAU i

h memorandum reflecting cueteceerteatl ons
{ of informants. + -

c : 2
TO NEW YORK: One (1) copy of letterhead memorandum
reflecting characterization of informants.

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA
Ae eae DATA

2 Fi) Wa At SREcinL AGENT

COPIES MADE:

2°86 Not wale in SPACES" BELOW

3-- Bureau (92-6054 )(Sneexe) IA- 7 stan p

2 ~ New York (92-2327 )(Ene.}

ville (92-357)

NOTATIONS

Hyver aantncerrice — 1o—Te324-1

DocId:32303703 Page 2
q



‘ LS 92-357

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS
Ls T-1 is LS 142-c,

LS T-2 is LS 152-c.
Ls T-3 is Ls 189-c.
LS T-4 is LS 201-Cc.
LS -T-5 is LS 207-C.

b

T-6 is LS 261-C.

&

T-7 is LS 274-C.

B

T-8 is LS 278-c.

tb
a

T-9 is LS 297-C.
T-10 is LS 307-C.
T-11 is LS 309-c.
T-12 is LS 310-C. : ;
T-13 is LS 311-c.
T-14 is LS 312-c.

Bh hE GE

T-15 is PCI JOHN HORACE WEBER,
T-16 is PCI JOSEPH ANTHONY POLIO.

b

The Louisville Division, at the present time, is
employing no highly confidential sources in connection with
captioned matter, and none are currently contemplated.

The Louisville Division, through its live criminal
informants, has maintained a high degree of coverage concerning
operations of the gambling and hoodlum element in Headquarters
City and the Newport-Covington, Kentucky area, among whom and
in which vicinities the "Commission", if active in the Louisville
Division, would be most likely to be operating.

-~B- ee
COVER PAGE ‘

DocId:32303703 Page 3
