# docid-32245128

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System.

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/2/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10072-10186

RECORD SERIES :

NUMBERED FILES.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 010313

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE :

Document Information

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

TO : HESS, JACQUELINE.

DATE: 07/31/1978

PAGES:

64

SUBJECTS :

OSWALD, MARINA; FINANCES, INCOME TAXES.

OSWALD, LEE; PRE-RUSSIAN PERIOD, MILITARY SERVICE,

COURT-MAR

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT.

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/10/1996

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Includes insurance forms, death certificate, & military documents of Oswald. Box 189.

v9.1

NW 55923

DocId: 32245128

Page 1

---

## Page 2

REF0-4-5-1

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION. AND WELFARE

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND 21235

JUL 2 8 1978

010313

Ms. Jackie Hess

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. House of Representatives

3331 House Office Building, Annex 2

Washington, D.C.

20515

Dear Ms. Hess:

This is in response to Mr. Blakey's May 15, 1978, request for access

to all files and documents concerning or referring to Lee Harvey Oswald

and Marina Oswald. The following documents are enclosed:

1.

Form SS-5, Application for Social Security Account Number, completed

by Lee Harvey Oswald.

2.

Form SS-5, Application for Social Security Account Number, completed

by Marina

Oswald.

3. Numident showing name changes for Marina Oswald.

4. Form OA-C5, Application for Survivors Insurance Benefits, completed

by Marina Oswald.

5.

Certificate of Death issued by the City of Dallas for

Lee Harvey Oswald.

6. Marriage certificate (and translation) for Lee Harvey Oswald and

Marina Nikolaevna Prusakova.

7. Birth certificate (and translation) for Marina Nikolaevna.

8. Birth certificate (and translation) showing child born to

Lee Harvey Oswald and Marina Nikolaevna Oswald.

9. OA-C704, Certification of Contents of Document(s) or Record(s),

re birth of child to Lee H. Oswald and Marina Nikolaevna Prusakova.

NW 55923 Docid: 32245128 Page 2

---

## Page 3

2

"10. Form 0A-0654, Certification By Uniformed Services, for Lee Harvey Oswald.

11. Letter dated 7/25/63 from the Department of the Navy to

Lee Harvey Oswald.

12. Form DD-214, Armed Forces of the United States Report of Transfer

or Discharge, for Lee Harvey Oswald.

13. Undesirable Discharge from the Armed Forces of the United States,

issued to Lee Harvey Oswald.

14. Forms OA-C668, Claimant's Report to Social Security Administration,

completed by Marina Oswald on 3/27/64 and 5/1/65.

15. Form OA-C669, Claimant's Report About Work to the Social Security

Administration, completed by Marina Oswald on 10/8/64.

16. Form SSA-1425, Reporting Card, completed by Marina Porter on 5/4/66.

17. Forms OA-C777, Annual Report of Earnings, completed by Marina Oswald

for 1964 and 1965.

18. Form DAC-1001, Statement of Employer, completed by Jaggars-Chiles-Stovall,

Inc.

19. Form OAC-1001, Statement of Employer, completed by Texas School Book

Depository.

20.

Form DAC-1001, Statement of Employer, completed by William B. Reily,

Company, Inc.

21. OAC-5002, Report of Contact, re contact with Jaggars-Chiles-Stovall, Inc.

22. OAC-5002, Report of Contact, re earnings under Jaggars-Chiles-Stovall, Inc.

23. Copies of three pages of the Warren Commission Report re employment of

Lee Harvey Oswald prior to service in the Marine Corps.

24. Form OA-C790, Request for E/R Action.

25. Memorandum dated 6/3/65, re remarriage of Marina Oswald.

26. Forms SSA-L735 sent to Marina Porter and completed by Mrs. Porter.

NW 55923

DocId: 32245128 Page 3

---

## Page 4

3

27. Forms OA-C107, Determination of Resumption of Award.

28.

Forms OA-C528b, Determination of Termination of Intitlement or

Suspension of Payments Based on Supporting Evidence on File.

29. Forms OA-C610, Payee, Address Change, or Hold Check Request.

30.

Form OA-C526, Benefit Summary.

31. Form OA-C101, Determination of Award.

32. Form OA-C589, receipt for check.

33. Form DA-0596, 1965 Conversion of Benefit Rates.

34.

Form AC-512, Appointment of Representative, completed by

Marina N. Oswald and James H. Martin.

35.

Form OAC-5002, Report of Contact, with James H. Martin.

36. Form OAC-5002, Report of Contact, re Lee Harvey Oswald's death.

The above-mentioned documents are being sent to you in their entirety.

We have withheld only the records of wage and self-employment income

maintained under the direction of 42 U.S.C. 405(c)(2). This record is

created on the basis of tax return information received from the Internal

Revenue Service. Under 26 U.S.C. 6103, this information is given to the

Social Security Administration for the administration of the Social

Security Act and redisclosure is prohibited. You may request this

information directly from the Internal Revenue Service.

I understand that the Dallas Region has already sent you the local

folder on Lee Harvey Oswald. We are also checking with the National

Archives to determine if it may have further social security records

on Lee Harvey Oswald or Marina Oswald. To date, we have found no

records under the aliases you provided. We will contact you if further

documents are located.

Sincerely yours,

Associate Commissioner

for Program Operations

Enclosures

NW 55923

Docid: 32245128 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Form 89-8

ABURY DEPARTMENT

APPLICATION FOR SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBER

ERNAL REVENUE SERVICE

REQUIRED UNDER THE FEDERAL INSURANCE CONTRIBUTIONS ACT

433-54-3937

DO NOT WRITE IN THE ABOVE SPACE

(RevIsed 7-48)

READ INSTRUCTIONS ON BACK BEFORE FILLING IN FORM

FILL IN EACH ITEM. PRINT IN BLACK OR DARK BLUE INK OR USE TYPEWRITER FOR ALL ITEMS EXCEP. :

• "TURE, IF THE INFORMATION CALLED FOR IN ANY ITEM IS NOT KNOWN, WRITE "UNKNOWN."

PRINT NAME YOU GAVE YOUR PRESENT FIRST NAME

MIDDLE NAME. (IF YE"

RIDDLE NAME OR INITIAL. DRAW A LINE —

DIST NAME

•EMPLOYER.

OR IF UNEMPLOYED, THE

NAME YOU WILL USE WHEN EMPLOYED

HARVEY

OswAld

MAILING ADDRESS (NO. AND ST.. P. O. BOX, OR RFD)

NO.

PRINT FULL NAME GIVEN YOU AT BIRTH

HARVEY

OSCUALi

(COUNTY)

1439

FATHER'S FULL NAME, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER LIVING OR DEAD

ROBERt

OSWA

(MARK (X) WHICH) (IN OTHER, SPECIFY)

(STATE)

NEW

ORIETINS

LA

MOTHER'S FULL NAME BEFORE EVER MARRIED, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER LVING OR DEAD

MARGRET CLEVIERY

HAVE YOU EVER BEFORE APPLIED

FOR OR HAD A SOCIAL SECURITY OR

YES

(MARK (X) WHICH)

NO

13

14

153

16-55287

RETURN COMPLETED APPLICATION TO NEAREST SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION FIELD OFFICE

NOT WAITE IN THIS SPACS

BUSINESS NAME OF EMPLOYER.

IF UNEMPLOYED, WRITE "UNEMPLOYED"

11

STATE

EMPLOYER'S ADDRESS (NO. AND STREET)

(CITY)

(ZONE)

(STATE)

STATE IN WHICH YOU FIRST

APPLIED AND WHEN

ALSO PRINT YOUR ACCOUNT

NUMBER IF YOU KNOW IT

DATE

TODAY'S DATE

WRITE YOUR NAME AS USUALLY WRITTEN (DO NOT PRINT)

DA Scout ben)

Asthis

WW 55923

DocId: 32245128

Fage 5

---

## Page 6

Latin

GEGEN DESCEBOORD

T5.53

-3

RussIA

115740

0sa0/a00E

1122 13371m10 ha

6-78 64

=-=

ДЕмАго Поі

NW 55923

DocId: 32245128

Page 6

---

## Page 7

OFFICIAL RECORD FOR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER

JEK Act 6 (3)

FORM 1: APPL/CYCLE 08 64 ENTRY O

NAME LINE MARINA

NICHOLAEVNA

OSWALD

SIGNATURE

BIRTH DATE 0717941

MOTHER CLAUDIA

BIRTHPLACE • ARCHANGEL

V PROOSAKOVA

• UR#

FATHER NICHOLAI

REQ BY BR 032 SEC

UNIT CLERK 00827 DATE 195

OFFICIAL RECORD FOR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER

JEK Act 6 (3)

DO IRS FORM 2 APPL/CYCLE 121175 ENTRY 2

NAME LINE MARINA

2ND NAME MARINA

NIKOLAEVNA

NIKOLAEVNA

PORTER

OSWALD

SIGNATURE

BIRTH DATE 0717941

MOTHER KLAVDIA

BIRTHPLACE: ARCHANGEL

PROOSAKOVA

UR#

FATHER ALEXANDR

REQ BY BR 032 SEC

UNIT

CLERK 00827 DATE: 195

OFFICIAL RECORD FOR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER

JEK Act 6 (3)

DO COO FORM 8 APPLACYCLE 011976 ENTRY 2

NAME LINE. M

2ND NAME

N

PORTER

MARINA

• NIC

OSWALD

SIGNATURE

BIRTH DATE 0717941

Ny 5592502821832223128E Gage HINIT

CLERK 00827 DATE 195

PRINTED ON 071978

REF# 65163940518

243

CODE

SEX 2 RACE 1

UNKNOWN

PAGE

1 OF

3

PRINTED ON 071978

REF#: 75165960637

636

243

CODE

SEX 2 RACE O

MEDVEDEV

PAGE 2 OF

3..

PRINTED ON 071978

REF# 76010006538

636

243

CODE D

SEX 2 RACE O

PAGE 3 OF

3

C

C

C

C

---

## Page 8

PLEASE DO NOT

WRITE

IN MARGIN

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

DALLAS, TEXAS 1

rorm approved

Budget

Bureau No. 72-R094.11

Bureau of Old-Age and Survivors Insurance

APPLICATION FOR SURVIVORS INSURANSE BENEFUS*

(Do nor write in this space)

All items on this form requiring an answer must be

unswered or marked "Unknown

NOTICE. -Whoever (a) makes or causes to be made any false statement of tepresentation of a

moria a Whoeve in remining the right to or the amount of gay ben hang decidin

an

individual's disability, under Title II of the Social Security Act, or

pay-

ment for the use and benefit of another person, knowingly and willfully uses such payment for

other than the person for whom it is received, is subject, under the Social Security Act, lo a fine of

-not more than $1,000 or 1 year's imprisonment, or both.

JAN®

(Name of deceased wage carner

arun

Leurald:

433-54-3427

Marina i tan i epicans

wald

-, hereby apply for all insurance benefits payable to

me under Title Il of the Social Security Act, as amended, and to the children listed in item 14 below.

1. When was the deceased born? Month

1.0

Day.19 Year 39

2. In what State or foreign country did the deceased have his fixed, permanent home when he died?.

3. (a) Did the deceased ever serve in t military or naval service of the United States?

If "Tes," answer (b).

No

(b) Was the deceased in active service after September 7, 1939, and before January 1, 1957?.

If "Tes," answer (c) and (d).

(6) Give dates of service during the period specifed in (6) above 10/24/56 - 9/1/5-9

Has anyone. (including the deceased) received, or does anyone expect to receive, from any

Federal agency other than the Social Security Administration, a benefit based on the em-

ployment, military service, disability, or death of the deceased?.

L

Yes

"No

If "Yes," name such person(s) ..

List all such agencies

4. Did the deceased work in the railroad industry al any time on or after January 1, 1937?.

Yes

'No

5. Give the names and addresses of the deceased's employers during the 12 months before his death; if the

deceased worked in agricultural employment, give this information for the year of death and the year

before. (If self-employed, write "Self-employed.")

WORK BEGAN

WORK ENDED

NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER

Month

Year

Month

Year

cost.

Tear

Kind of Trade or Business

Amount of Nel Earnings

Less than $400

-$400 or morel

Less than $400

$400

or more

7. About how much did the deceased earn from employment and self-employment during

the vear in which he died?

2600.0

8. Give the following information about each marriage of the deceased, including his marriage to you.

DATE AND PLACE OF MARRIAGE(S)

HOW MARRIAGE

MARRIAGE ENDED

To WHOM MARRIED

4/30/61

Must, Belo Russia Smsixa

his destl

11/24/63

Proskova

9. What was your maiden name? Marisa Nickolaena

10. When and where were you born?..

7/1.71

Severo

Avinak,..

K. cat

(State or foreign country)

Salter tex

• This may also be

payments under Title 38 USC.,

considered an application for survivors benefits under Section S of the Railroad Retirement Act and for Weles under mite Salien

Veterans Benefits, Chapter 13 (which is, as such, an application for other lypes of death benefits under

NW 5592501 Doal

DocId: 32245128

Page 8

---

## Page 9

11. Indicate by (V) whether your marriage to the deceased was performed by:

Clergyman or authorized public official If or Other D

- 12. Were you married before your marriage to the deceased?

If "Yes," give the following information about each of your previous marriages.

DATE AND PLACE OF MARRIAGE(S)

TO WHOM MARRIED

Month, Day, Year

City

State

(Explain)

Yes

HOW MARRIAGE

ENDED

MARRIAGE ENDED

Date

Place

13. (a) Were you and the deceased living together at the same address when the deceased died?.

(b) If either you or the deceased was away from home. (whether or not temporarily) when the deceased

died, give the following: which of you was away; date last home; reason absence began; reason you •

Lose 11/22/63 whes:

illegitimate children): (a) who were under 18 years of age when he died; or (b) who were 18

years of age or older, with a disability that began before age 18?

Yes

No

If your answer is "No," leave out the next questions and continue with question 21.

If your answer lo question 14 is "Yes,'

give the following information about each such child.

(If uncertain as to name, date of birth, or whereabouts of any of these children, explain under "Remarks" on last page.)

Show relationship to you and the deceased by placing (V) in the proper column.

•DATE OF BIRTH

RELATIONSHIP TO DECEASED

FULL NAME OF CHILD

Month

Day

Stepchild

June see Cowald

2

62

RELATIONSHIP TO YOU

Year

Legitimate

Adopted

Siepchild

Illegitimate

Natural

Adopted

x.

Audrey Marine Rachel 10.

susal

(If you are nor filing this application on

behalf of any child listed above, give under "Remarks"' on last page tbe name

of each such child and the reason (s) for not filing.

If a child of the deceased is born after this application is filed, notify

your office of the Social Security Administration promptly, as such child may receive benefits.)

Has any child listed in item 14 ever been adopted by anyone other than the deceased?

Yes

If "Tes," give the name of child, by whom adopted, and when..

16. (a) Were all the children listed in item 14 living with the deceased at time of death?.

No

• IS "No," and the deceased was the FATHER or ADOPTING FATHER who died before Sepiember 1960, answer (b).

(b) Which of the children listed in item 14 were living with their STEPFATHER when the deceased died?

PLEASE

DO

NOT

WRITE IN MARGIN

17. Are all the children listed in item 14 now living with you?

If "No," give the following information about each child not living with you now.

PERSON WITH WHOM CHILD NOW LIVES

FULL NAME OF CHILD NOT LIVING WITH YOU

Name and Address

18. Has a child listed in item 14 lived with you in every month since your husband's death?.

If "No," list the months in which no such child lived with you

NW 55923 DocId: 32245128

Page 9

Relationship to Child

No

No

---

## Page 10

19. Do you understand that all payments made to you on behalf of a child must be spent or saved

for his use and benefit, and do you agree to so apply the benefits?

20. Do you agree to notify the Social Security Administration promptly when you no longer have

responsibility for the welfare and care of any child for whom you are filing this application?

21. Have you or any children listed in item 14 married since the death of the deceased?

If "Tes," give name of person who married and date of marriage.

es

Yes

22. Have you or any children listed in item 14 ever had a social security account number?

If "Tes," give the following information for each person having a number.

NAME OF PERSON AS SHOWN ON SOCIAL SECURITY CARD

SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBER

No

PLEASE DO NOT WRITE IN MARGIN

23. Have you or any children listed in item 14 ever filed an application for social security benefits

before?..

If "Tes," give the name and account number of the person on whose earnings record such previous claim was based.

(Name of wage-earer or self-employed person)

Answer questions 24 and 25 only if you are within 3 months of age 62 or older.

(Social security account number)

24. Were you in the active military or naval service of the United States after September 7, 1939,

and before January 1, 1957?

Yes

No

25. Did you work in the railroad industry at any time on or after January 1, 1937?.

No

Deductions are made from the benefits (other than disability benefits) of any person under age 72 who earns more than

$100 a month in employment or renders substantial services in self-employment, and has earnings in excess of $1,200 for the

taxable year.* This applies to all employment and self-employment, whether or nor covered by the Social Security Act.

26. (a) Are you or any of the children for whom you are filing now earning more than $100 a

month in employment or rendering substantial services in self-employment?..

Yes

If "Yes," give the name of each such person..

No

(b) Do you expect your total earnings or the total earnings of any child for whom you are

filing to exceed $1,200 this year (count all earnings beginning with the first month of this

year)?.......

tinue with question 27.

i ei ete ame of each such person and the amount of his expected anings. ' No. con. a Re

PERSON

EXPECTED EARNINGS

(c) Did every person listed in (b) earn more than $100 a month in employment or render sub-

stantial service in self-employment in all months of this year (counting the present month)?.

Yes

No

If "No," give the name of each person and the months of this year in which the person did not earn more than $100

a month in employment and did not render substantial services in self-employment. If any such person was self-

employed, show the number of hours he devoted to self-employment opposite each month listed - if none, show "None."

PERSON

MONTHS

The yearly period referred to in this and subsequent items is the same 12-month period used in figuring income taxe

If you or any of the children

se a fiscal year (one that does not end on December 31), enter here the name of such person and the month the fiscal vear ends.

"NW.55923m-Dostd+32245

---

## Page 11

Answer item 27 only if the deceased died before this year.

27. Did you or any child for whom you are filing earn more than $1,200 last year?..

If "Yes," give the name of each such person, show his lotal eamings, and list the months of last year in which the person

did not earn $100 a month in employment and did not tender substantial services in self-employment. If any such person

was self-employed, show the number of hours he devoted lo self-employment opposite each month listed- if none, show

"None." (Do not list any month before the month the deceased died.)

PERSON

EARNINGS

MONTHS

$

An annual report of earnings must be filed with the Social Security Administration within 3 months and 15 days after

the end of any year in which you, while under age 72 at least one full month of that year, or any child for whom you are

Also, your benefit is not payable for any month you do not have in your care a child of

the deceased entitled to a child's benefit unless you are receiving benefits because you are a widow age 62 or over.

FAILURE TO REPORT THESE EVENTS MAY RESULT IN THE LOSS OF ADDITIONAL

MONTHLY BENEFITS.

28. Do you agree to file the annual report of earnings when required?.

No

29. Do you agree to notify the Social Security Administration promptly if you do not have an en-

• titled slud of the deceased in your care?:::.:

No

A widow's entitlement to benefits ends with the month before the month in which: (a) she remarries, with certain excep-

tions (however, all marriages must be reported); or (b) she is under age 62 and no child of the deceased is entitled to

child's insurance benefits.

A child's entitlement to benefits ends with she month before the month in which the child: (a) attains age 18 (unless the

child has a physical or mental impairment which began before age 18, is expected to be long-lasting, and prevents any sub-

stantial gainful activity); (b) dies; (c) marries, with certain exceptions where the child is disabled (however, all marriages

must be reported); or (d) is legally adopted (unless the adoption is by the child's stepparent, grandparent, aunt, or uncle

after the death of the parent on whose record the child's claim is based).

If the child is age 18 or over and is receiving benefits as a disabled child, his entitlement to benefits also ends with the

second month after the month in which his disability ceases.

30. Do you agree to notify the Social Security Administration promptly if any of these events occur

and to return promptly any check for benefits received by you if you or any of the children are

No

REMARKS: (This space may be used for explaining

any answers to the questions. If you need more space,

attach a separate sheet.)

i Elm, Aadiao Qui 10/43- 11/6

PLEASE

DO

NOT

WRITE IN

MARGIlY

Knowing that anyone making a false statement or representation of a marerial fact for use in determining

or the amount of Federal old-age, survivors, or disability insurance benefits or in determining an individual's disability, com-

mits a crime punishable under Federal lan, I certify that the above stacements are true.

If this application has been signed by mark (X), two wit

nesses aho

inow the applicant must sign below, giving theis

Signature of applicant (Write in ink):

full addresses.

2.

(City)

(Ciry)

(Name)

(Street and number)

(Zone number)

(Name)

(Street and number)

(Zone number)

Sign

Here

(State)

Marina N. Orwald

(First name)

(Middle initial)

(Last name)

P0 Box 1407

Hand i and numbers

raisie cut 75050

(City)

(Zone number)

Telephone number at which I can be reached:

2A7656 9

D19 7-0108

(If none, write "None.")

(State.)

Date:

X

(Month)

(Day)

(Year)

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 186105-582159

NW. 55923

DocId: 32245128

Page 11

---

## Page 12

STATISTICS

HEALTH

CERTIFICATE OF DEATH

-

STATE OF TEXAS

1. PLACE OF DEATH

a. COUNTY

• Dallas

b. CITY OR TOWN (If outside city limits, give precinct ro.)

Dallas

d. NAME OF If not in hospital, give street address)

HOSPITAL

INSTITUTION

Parkland Hospital

IS PLACE OF DEATH INSIDE CITY LIMITS?

: YESE

STATE FILE NO.

2. USUAL RESIDENCE (Whore deceased lived. Il institution: residence bofore admission)

•. STATE Texas

b. COUNTY

Dallas

c. LENGTH OF STAY: I

in I b.

13 Mo.

c. CITY OR TOWN |If outside city limits, give precinct no.)

• Dallas

d. STREET ADDRESS (lf rural, give location)

1026

• N. Beckley

8. 15 RESIDENCE INSIDE CITY LIMITS?

F. IS RESIDENCE ON A FARMI

YES D

3. NAME OF

DECEASED

(lype or print)

(a) First

Lee

5. SEX

Ó. COLOR OR RACE

Male

White

NOD

(b) Middio

Harvey

17.

Married E

NO C

NO D

(e) Lost

14. DATE OF DEATH

Oswald

November

| 8. DATE OF BIRTH

19. AGE (in years

Novor Married D

October 19,1939

24.

1963

IF UNDER I YEAR LIF UNDER 24 HRS.

Months

Days

Hours

Minutos

100. USUAL OCCUPATION (Give kind of work dond 106. KIND OF BUSINESS OR INDISReEt

11. BIRTHPLACE (State or foreign country)

uring most of working life, even if retiros

13. FATHER'S NAME

Printing, Book, Metal

New Orleans, La

12. CITIZEN OF WHAT COUNTRY?

USA

14. MOTHER'S MAIDEN NAME

Robert Edward Lee Oswald

Margeruite Claverie

15. WAS DECEASED EVER IN U.S. ARMED FORCES?

16. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

To Ye's

or unknown)

1o-195 adig 119359

433-54-3937

1B. CAUSE OF DEATH (Entor only one cause per line for (a). (b), and (c).)

PART 1. DEATH WAS CAUSED BY:

IMMEDIATE 84" ice.

a quiremantase, secondary to

approx

45 minutes

stating the under.

lying cause last.

le

CERTIFICATION

20a.

MEDICAL

1125

200. INJURY OCCURRED

PART II. OTHER SIGNIFICANT CONDITIONS CONTRIBUTING TO DEATH BUT NOT RELATED TO THE TERMINAL DISEASE CONDITION GIVEN IN PART I(0)

19. WAS A

UTOPSY PER

FORMED?

YES&

NOO

12463

"Teed hit ere rape hit flin

Dallas

1exas

I heroby certify that lottended the deceased troth.

01 11-24-63

12: 45n on the dore stored above and to the bont ol my tauladge, from is cover nored!

22a. SIGNATURE

Ride

(Degree or title)

J.P.

31o touttona

22C. DATE SIGNED

will

230. BURIAL, CREMATION, REMOVAL (Specify)

XLEXEI REMOVAL

23d. LOCATION

City, town, or countyl

Fort Worth

25a. REGISTRAR'S FILE NO.

6717

112-5-63

23c. NAME OF CEMETERY OR CREMATORY

November 25, 1963

Rose Hill Buria

74. FUNERAL DIRECTOR'S SIGNATURE

Miller

Funeral

25b. DATE REC'D BY LOCAL REGISTRAR

DEC 6

1963

823K31888 $3775

Home, Ft worth, Texas

Maurine dammine

ACTING REGISTRAR

DALIAS, TEXAS Jan. 2,

I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THIS IS A TRUE COPY OF

19644-

DEA. TH

CERTIFICATE OF ONE. Lee Harvey Oswald

AS IS RECORDED IN THIS OFFICE IN THE CITY OF DALLAS,

COUNTY OF DAI

BY

ACTING

-JISiN

-N7.AZ SELTISTIES

DALIAS, TEXAS

NN 55923 DooId: 32245128 Page 12

---

## Page 13

TRANSLATION

NAME. OF INSURED INDIVIDUAL

SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBER

433-54-39317

TRANSLATING OFFICE

Social Security Administration

A. REQUEST FOR ASSISTANCE

(Complete only il document is sent lo

another office for translation.)

1. DATE:

1/23/64

2. LANGUAGE OF DOCUMENT:

RUSSIAN

3. PERSON(S) FOR WHOM PROOF SUBMITTED:

(If married worner give maiden name)

A. FACTIS) TO BE PROVED:

L

5. ALLEGED DATE EVENT IN ITEM A-A

OCCURRED:

B. TRANSLATION

(To be filled out by o/licial translator)

1. TYPE OF DOCUMENT:

INT RECORDED.IF

SLE OF OFFICERE!

marrieçe Centuricale

SHON4/ 3C/G/

Furiaw Manaces (chuck)

5. Does this document appear tobe genuine and un

made at the time purported?

7. Is Foreign Service post verification stamp

shown on document..

8. Describe and explain any irregularities in document:

3. DATE DOCUMENT

154/30/61

YES

YES

NO

NO

9. The document, which is in the.

_language, contains the following pertinent information:

CiTizen: Oswald, Lee Hervey, baru 10/18/39 in

New ORLeANS

aud

CiTizen: prycanora, marina Mikolaerma, born

July 17, 1941 in Amolotoosk, List. Arkhangelok

were married on Aprel. 30, 1961

pog. No. 415

Cert. No. 332281

SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED

TRANSLATOR

Social Security Administration

Grange KoTria

Il auth v1

DATE

WW 559292903

32215126 Page13

/23/64

---

## Page 14

55923

DocId: 32245128

Page

14

HE UN 40

hid

СВИДЕТЕЛЬСТВО О БРАКЕ

• Грамадзннім

Гозжарни

Освольь

Карвен

1936 года наряжения

гор мийорлан

1 50343735113

Н грА: чікА

Прусалова

itzteriedi"

194

бола парлажания

T0.22.11367091198

Marsiage Certificate

аб чим у конте запісай актад крамалаянскаа стану

по записей актов гражланского состояния

u Opare

4024

Xiller?

NICHET.

С 607620 30349

5/освальт:

11118.

горі ленінс

30 0u8 104

ycrynil s nos 300mpel 16622

А-ПЯ: ТА 332281

года

---

## Page 15

the ariaina? dooumont, de chich thin 1a

•a photucopy, appoars to ba commino and

10a1i0r0d a00 to bawn baco made ai tha

tine purgaricar

lette Focuse Brince

Gives tago ton dead examination!

o the origine document

by the 7: 3-9506020tory

alien seeR The butte

ізо.

Tuanax. 1055.

40075

ССИДЕТЕЛЬСТВО О БРАКЕ

•ESC

NW

55923

DooId: 32245128

Page 15

---

## Page 16

...=

TRANSLATION

NAME. OF INSURED INDIVIDUAL

SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBER

433-54-3937

TRANSLATING O SPIUE

Social Security Administration

A. REQUEST FOR ASSISTANCE

(Complete only if document is sent lo

another office for translation.)

1. DATE:

/23/64

2. LANGU

GE OF DOCUMEN

RUSSIAN

3. PERSON(S) FOR WHOM PROOF SUBMITTED:

(If married woman give maiden name)

4. FACTIS) TO BE PROVED:

L

S. ALLEGED DATE EVENT IN ITEM A-A

OCCURRED:

B. TRANSLATION

(To be filled our by official translalor)

"TE BRI" Cutificate

A. TITLE OF OFFICER EXECUTIN@DOCUMENT:

2. DATE EVENTRE

•ORDED, IF

SHOWN: 8/14/41

ISSUING AGENCY:

6. Does this document appear to be genuine and unaltered, and to have

legible *

made at the time purported?

7. Is Foreign Service post verification stamp

shown on document......

8. Describe and explain any irregularities in document:

DATE DOCUMENT

135UED: 9/14/61

YES

YES

NO

NO

9. The document, which is in the

_language, contains the following pertinent information:

Name: PRycanova, maria Mikolacona uras born

(MC. LegiBle ) 1M,

1941 (mouTh appeciste be fuly or funa)

Place oF BIRTh: (ciTy Illegible), DesTrict ArKhangelsk, RSESR

Father: (2 laguble)

)

ReS. No, 1285

Cert Mo. Illegible)

RECUE

SIGNATI

KE OF AUTHORIZEI

* Document slices afficial suret

TRANSLATOR

IAcs bureau stainp.

Social Security Administration

7

Geo. Rotis lon

DATE

NW 55928м 00660332245128 Page 16

1/2.3/64

GPO: 1962 0 - 648770

---

## Page 17

=1.

po.i

C: 11:

ini lea

mocrre granicon =

о чем в

14.

12.35

marina's,

Binth Cerfificate

национальность т р 4 -

NI:

•r..

=.:.

( Ti

NW 55923 DocId: 32245128 Page 17

---

## Page 18

TRANSLATION

NAME. OF INSURED INDIVIDUAL

SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBER

433-54-3937

TRANSLATING OFFICE

Social Security Administration

7

L

A. REQUEST FOR ASSISTANCE

(Complete only il document is sent to

another office for iranslation.)

1. DATE:

123/64

2. LANGUAGE OF DOCUMENT:

Russian

3. PERSON(S) FOR WHOM PROOF SUSMITTED:

(1f married women give maiden name)

A. FACTIS) TO BE PROVED:

5. ALLEGED

D/B

OCCURRED:

E EVENT IN ITEM A-A

B. TRAILATION

(To be filled out by official translator)

Bitti Certificate

A. TITLE OF OFFICER EXEZUTING DOCUMENT:

os (chak

2/25/62

made at the time purported?

7. Is Foreign Service post verification stamp

shown on document. ...

8. Describe and explain any irregularities in document:

155uE 2/25/62

YES

NO

9. The document, which is in the

_language, contains the following pertinent information:

Family name: OSWALD

FAThER'S NAME: OSUALI

First. Name; June

Lee HARVEY

FATheR'y NATIONALITY: aMErICan

Patronymic: Fee

Mother's DAME: OSWALD,

BORN: Fabruary 15, 1962

marina NIKOLACVNA

Place of BIRth: MinK. WhTe Russiam SSA

MOThER'S NATIONALITY: RUSSIAN

REG. No, 208

RECUESTING OFFICE:

(over)

SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED

TRANSLATOR

Social Security Administration

7

rongs petestion

DA'

1/23/64

NW 55925° D8A18?32243128 Page 18

GPO: 1962 0 - 648770

---

## Page 19

Place of Regurration, Omensk, District Tenin

Office of Registration

Ceitificate No. 123610

NN 33923

DocId: 32245128

Page 19

---

## Page 20

ЕМЯСВЕДЧАННЕ

РАБ ПАРЯДЖОНН!

СВИДЕТЕЛЬСТВО О РОЖДЕНИИ

Гр.

Освальд.

гДжук.

Ли

наралзідся (лася)

15. "."/962.

родиься (1aсь)

airôant

яятнадца того

10c0.

февраля

тысяка девятьсоб

шесть десят второго года

Месца нараджанна ззіцяці: гораз, інго меченеск

Место рожлення робинка: горог, сало

раём

район

БССР

область

аб чіли у кніж запісай антай грамадзинскага стану аб

наралженні

о чем в инше записел актов гражданского состояння

о роженни

1962 гол февраль мсяца

25 члсла

LiECHUA

ЧИСЛа

зроблен лінансання заніс за

прозвана соститствующим запись з 15208..

Juned Lee Bith Catificate

БАЦЬКІ:

РОДИТЕЛИ:

Бацька

Отелий

Освальо.

імя 1

харвей

американец

национально о свальо

Маці

ла Марина.

та Ней колая вна

інаї Ма ва

націлянатьнасць

национагШость

русская

Месив розістрациі

- Н Мимети

ЗАГС)

"Пенинского рна

Мата сул

25. февраля 196205

IV-ПЯ

090F.

«opo sanicay

хоза стану

Зarcivangir! lipo записей

актого

Nº

123610

ITW

55923

DocId: 32245128

Page

20

---

## Page 21

DEPARTMENT OF

HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE

CERTIFICATION OF CONTENTS OF DOCUMENTS) OR RECORD(S)

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

BUREAU OF OLD-AGE AND SURVIVORS INSURANCE

(This form must be executed by an authorized employee of the Social Security Administration)

Name of page earner or pell-employed person

Social security account number

Oswald

433-54-3937

If the date on which an entry was made in a family record is

every item i a bla more iled ou wish pace engers note in tried on.

must be marked "not shown."

"Remarks" any allegation as to when the

document or record was established.

CROSS OUT ALL UNUSED SPACES.

A. AGE (OR RELATIONSHIP) OF:

1. NAME OF PERSON AS SHOWN ON EVIDENCE

BIRTHDAY AT WHICH AGE SHOWN

lindee

„Marena

Rackel Oswald

10/20/63

NAME OF EITHER

J NOT SHOWN

NAME OF MOTHER

, Oxualal

ne marina Nichalacina

PERSON HAVING CUSTODY, RELATIONSHIP TO APPLICANT, AND ADDRESS:

Y APPLICANT

Cirt.

AGENCY (If certifing from a Bible, give dale of publication)

2. NAME OF PERSON AS SHOWS ON EVIDENCE

оновоа ns

Birth Reg

DOCUMENT O

DATE RECORDED

AGE BIRTHDAY AT WHICH AGE SHOWN

I LAST

NEAREST L

NEXT

NOT GIVEN

NAME OF FATHER

NoT SHOWN

AGE

NAME OF MOTHER

_ NoT SHOWN

AGE

PERSON HAVING CUSTODY, RELATIONSHIP TO APPLICANT, AND ADDRESS:

NAtUre Of EviDence

APPLICANT

NAME AND ADDRESS OF ISSUING AGENCY (IS certifring from a Bible, give dale of publication)

DOCUMENT No.

CUSTODIAN

3. NAME OF PERSON AS SHOWN ON EVIDENCE

BORN

AGE

BIRTHDAY AT WHICH AGE SHOW'N

I LAST

NEAREST

NEXT

NoT GIveN

DATE REOORDED

NAME OF FATHER

• NOT SHOWN

AGE

NAME OF MOTHER

NOT SHOWN

AGE

PERSON HAVING CUSTODY, RELATIONSHIP TO APPLICANT, AND ADDRESS:

APPLICANT

NATURE OF EVIDENCE

NAME AND ADDRESS OF ISSUING AGENCY (IS certifying from a Bible, give dale of publication)

_ CUSTODIAN

DOCUMENT No.

1. NAME OF PERSON AS SHOWN ON EVIDENCE

BORN

AGE

BIRTHDAY AT WHICH AGE SHOWN

LAST

NEAREST

• NEXT

NOT GIVEN

DATE RECORDED

NAME OF FATHER

• NoT SHOWN

AGE

NAME OF MOTHER

• NOT SHOWN

AGE

PERSON HAVING CUSTODI, RELATIONSHIP TO APPLICANT, AND ADDRESS:

NATURE OF EVIDENCE

APPLICANT

NAME AND ADDRESS OF ISSUING AGENCY (If certifying from a Bible, give date of publication)

• CUSTODIAN

DOcUMENT NO.

B. MARRIAGE OF:

NAME OF HUSBAND AS SHOWN ON EVIDENCE

NO. OF PREVIOUS MAR-

LLAGES (1, 2, ETC.)

BORN

AGE

NAME OF WIFE AS SHOWN ON EVIDENCE

NOT SHOWN

- PREVIOUS MA

BORN

AGE

BIRTHDAY AT WHICH AGE SHOW'S

LAST

NEAREST

NEXT

NOT GIVEN

BIRTHDAY AT WHICH AGE SHOWN

LAST

NEAREST

NEXT

NOT GIvEN

NATURE OF EVIDENCE

] MARRIAGE CERTIFICATE

NOT SHOWN

PLACE OF MARRIAGE

PERSON HAVING CUSTODI, RELATIONSHIP TO APPLICANT, AND ADDRESS:

APPLICANT

DATE OF MARRIAGE

NAME AND ADDRESS OF ISSUING AGENCY (If certifying from a Bible, give date of publication)

DOCUMENT NO.

CUSTODIAN

Form OA-C704

AW 559236-BocId: 32245128

(OVER)

Page 21

---

## Page 22

BMA

DEPARTMENT OF HEA:.

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRA..

Bureau of Old-Age and Survivorse

The information requested below is for use in connection with

a claim for social security benefits based at least in part on active

service in the armed forces after September 7, 1939.

UCATION, AND WELFARE

CERLIEICATION BY. UNIFORMED SERVICES

FROM: Social Security Administration

Division of Claims Policy

Entitlement Branch, Room 645

Baltimore, Ma. 21235

Toot co Parrott ICP Date.

Director

1/24/64

PART I-TO BE COMPLETED BY SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

LAST NAME - FIRST NAME - MIDDLE NAME

DATE OF BIRTH

DATE OF DEATH

Oswald, Lee Harvey

10/19/39

11/24/63

BRANCH OF SERVICE

DATE(S) OF ENTRY INTO SERVICE

DATE(S) OF SEPARATION

SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER

433-54-3937

PLACE

SOF SEPARATION

Marine Corps

RATE OR RANK

10/24/56

9/11/59

SERIAL

NO

1653230

Part II B . . . Part Ill • below to be completed by the service department

REMARKS:

PART II-SERVICE DEPT. CERTIFICATION ABOUT ACTIVE SERVICE AFTER SEPTEMBER 7, 1939.

1. DATE(S) OF ENTRY INTO

2. DATE(S) OF SEPARATION

ACTIVE SERVICE

FROM ACTIVE SERVICE

3. CHARACTER OPERATION COUR MART Condu "cATE IF GIVEN

240c t56

11Sep59

Honorable

CHARACTER OF

EPARATION WAS

NoT Honorable, Under

Honorable

Conditions,

Dishonorable

Bad Conduct

a. Il period of service was less than 90 days, WAS INDIVIDUAL DIS-

CHARGED OR RELEASED FROM ACTIVE SERVICE AS RESULT OF INJURY

OR DISABILITY INCURRED OR AGGRAVATED IN SERVICE IN LINEOF DUTY?

YES

OF A General COURT MARTIAL, CHECK REASON FOR SEPARATION BELOW:

a. I DESERTION.

b.[ RESIGNATION FOR THE GOOD OF THE SERVICE (Officers Only).

NO

THE UNIFORM

COOTERWOO CONTENTION GENE GENERO COMPETENT

S. IF A PERIOD OF SERVICE HAD AN ENTRY DATE AFTER 12/31/46 AND

BEFORE 12/16/50, BY WHICH OF THE FOLLOWING WAS ENTRY EFFECTED?

CALLED FROM

• ENLISTED

INACTIVE SERVICE

• COMMISSIONED

MILITARY AUTHORITY.

CONVICTION BY A CIVIL COURT FOR TREASON.

ESPIO-

ROBBERY, KIDNAPPING,

INDUCTED

ASSAULT WITH INTENT

TO KILL,

ASSAULT WITH A

DANGEROUS

WEAPON, OR OF AN ATTEMPT TO COMMIT ANY OF THESE CRIMES.

I RE-ENLISTED

e. [I NONE OF THE ABOVE.

PART III-SERVICE DEPT. CERTIFICATION ABOUT RETIRED OR RETAINER PAY (See instructions on reverse side)

IF THE VETERAN WAS NEVER RETIRED or TRANSFERRED TO THE FLEET RESERVE, check this box.

D

Sign and return the form without answering items 1, 2 and 3 below.

1. (a) Was this veteran an enlisted member of the Army, Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps, or

Coast Guard and retired after September 15, 1940, and before October 1, 1949, because

of disability?

Yes

• No

(b) Was this veteran ever retired or transferred to the Fleet Naval (or Marine Corps) Re-

serve after September 15, 1940, for any reason other than disability which is the proxi-

mate result of the performance of active duty?

Yes

• No

If answer to 1 (a) or 1 (b) is "Yes," answer (e) and (d).

Was active service after September 15, 1940, and before July 25, 1947, used to establish

eligibility to receive retirement or retainer pay?

D

Yes

No

(d) Was active service after July 24, 1947, and before January 1, 1957, used to establish

• eligibility to receive retirement or retainer pay?

Yes

No

2. (a) Has the retirement (or retainer) pay of this individual ever been fixed under a formula

which includes a multiple of active service?

Yes

No

If answer is "Yes," answer (b) and (c).

(b) Was this multiple increased because of active service occurring after September 15, 1940,

and before July 25, 1947?

Yes

No

(c) Was this multiple increase because of active service occurring after July 24, 1947, and

before January 1, 1957?

3. Did the veteran have active duty or active duty for training after December 31, 1956? . .

Yes

Yes

No

No

REMARKS BY CERTIFYING AGENCY:

Served in an inactive status in the Marine Corps Reserve from 125ep59

to 13Sep60 when dischargbd as Undesirable.

CONTINUED ON REVERSE SIDE

ORGANIZATION Records Service Section

SIGNATURE

Ha. U: .S. Marine Coprs

W.C

lene

DATE

27J an64

RANK OR TITLE

Head of Section

Form OA-C654

(2-61)

55923 DocId: 32245128 Page 22

---

## Page 23

£8699

+951 3002951111

•GOTRIES JATTIBA MOJI UOTABIEdAS

TOIL 109/E1/6 07 65/27/6 MOTI ENTaSay saIOD

• 49/42/1

GOTEM 65/1T/6 - 95/12/OT aOTAIAS 211708

INSTRUCTIONS

This form requests information to permit the Social Security Administration to determine

whether the veteran had active military or naval service during World War II (September 16, 1940--

July 24, 1947) or post- World War II (July 25, 1947--December 31, 1956) for which military service wage

credits may be granted.

The duplicate copy of this form should be kept in the veteran's military file. If there is ever a

subsequent change made in the service or retirement record which affects the information furnished on

this form, the Social Security Administration should be advised accordingly.

PART I-The items identifying the veteran are completed by the requesting Social Security

Administration office shown in the upper right corner of the form.

That office will also check block(s)

after "Part II" and/or "Part III" to show the type of information being requested.

in Part IT are

to be com-

---

## Page 24

5 i

DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY

HAVY DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD

WASHINGTON 29, D. G.

IN REPLY RESEA TO

EXOS: QB (33)

JAPIGIO

JUL 25 1963 •

Г

Mr. Lee H. Oswald

P. 0. Box 30001

New Orleans, La.

Dear Mi. Oswalds

Tho rovlow of your dischorge has been comploted in

accordance with tho rogulations govorning tho proceduros

of this Board. Caroful consideration was given to the

ovidenco presented in your bchalf as vell as that contrined

In your offiolal records. Tho Sccrotary of the Navy has

reviewed the prococdings of the Board.

It 18 the decision that no change, corroction or

modification ls warranted in your dischargo.

Sincerely yours,

D. W. BOiLIAN

Captain, US.

Presidont

Navy Discharge Review Board

Enc188

Original Discharge Cortificate.

Two (2) lettors dated 31 Jan 1962, 13 Now 1961.

Information on Reenlistment

NW 55923 DocId: 32245128 Page 24

---

## Page 25

55923

DocId: 32245128

Page

25

191A:35

nice incut -

Service Disctiara:

LAST NAME:

FIRST MAMER MIDDLE NAME

LEGEND: Insert N/A to tho itoms below which are not applicable,

2. SLMVICE NUMBEM

DO. GMAUE, RATE OR RANK

OSWALD, Leo Harvey

1653230

PFC (E-2)

VIVA TUNOTId

A. UEFARINEAT, COMFONENT AND BRANCH OR

CLASS

8. PLACE Of BIRTH (City and Stalé or Country)

New Orleans, Louisiana

JU, RACE

b. SEX

?. COLOR MAIR

d. COLOR EYES

•. HEIGHT

Caucasian

Male

Brown

Grey

71M

f. WEIGHT

150

DATE

OF

BIRTH

0. U.s. CITIZEN

EYES

1UO. HIGHIST CIVILIAN EDUCATION LEVEL

DAY

18

Oct

A. MARITAL STATUS

Single

ATTAINED

b. MAJOR COURSE OR FIELD

High School - 1

Acadenio

110, TYPI OF TRANSFER OR DISCHARGE

Transferred

5. STATION OR INATALLATION AT WHICH EFFECTED

YL:]

to srino Corps Reserve

H&HS, MC/S, El Toro,

C. RINSOLi AND AUTHORITY

220-Dependency• Par 10213 MARCORMAN & MCO

1:00.2B & CG 3AM2/'s 5th Lind of 31/ur 59

EFFEC-

TIVE

TE, LAST DUTY RSSIGAMINT AND MAJOR COMMAND MACE-S MAICO, SQUEAT,

180, CHARACTER OF SEHVICE

*i 2UPac,WO'S, ElToro (SantaAng) California

HONORABLE

(Santa Ana), Califonia

MONTH

Sep

D. ТУРЕ ОТ СІХТІРІСЛТЕ

Db-217-10

14. EILECIDESERVICE NUMDER

18, SELECTIVE SERVICE LOCAL UORRO NUMALR, CITY, COUNTY AND STATE

TEAR

39

YEAR

59

DAY

N/2

17, DISTMICI ON AREA COMMANO TO WHICH RES

I TRANSFERALO

N/A'

DATE IMDUCTED

MOMTN

N/A

10. TINKlliS: DATE OF

HESERVE

ULLIGATION

DAY

MÜNTH

YEAR

62

MARTO NAS, Glenview, Illinois

18. CURRINT ACTIVE SERVICE OTHER THAM BY IMDUCTION

O, SOURCE OF LMTRY

123 CHLISTED (Firet Enlistmens) DEMLISTED (Prior Service) ' PEEMLISTED

D. PEMM UF

DAY

DATE OF EMYHY

НОМІН

Oct

YEAR

Dec

2O. FAICA REGULAR LILISTHENIS

21. GRAUL. DATE CA MANK AT TIME OF

ENTRY INTO CURRINT ACTIVE SERVICE

18. PLACK OF LATAY INTO CURRENT ACTIVE BLAVICE (City and Slalo)

NON:

Privata

29.10

Dallas, Texas

LE TACURO ST TIME OF ENTRY INTO ACTIVE SLAVICE (SIICOT, RFO,

mirj, Coumy und Sidle)

?д.

STATEMENT OF SERVICE

4930: Collinod Street

FLAMS

11S NUT SERVICE THIS PERIOO

Port lerthe Treronte Tryna

CHLDITABLE

FOR BASIC

FiO FPICHSIT MORE A ANO TITLE JO. RELATIO CIRIAM OCCUPATION ANO

(AD OTILA SENVICE

dill: timelectronid.o.r.nunn.

PUNrOSES

(3) TOTAL (lino (1) + lino (2))

Oparator

Radio Upurator

i, TOTAL ACTIVE SURVICE

a-61.30

C. FDARIÚN AND/DAGLASERVICE

¿6. DILUNATIONS, ULDALS, GAUGIS, CUNNINDATIONS, CITATIONS AND CANPAIGN RIGHQNE ALALUÃO OR AUTMORILLO

HOUTHS

DATI

NONE

27. NGULES ELCLIYLO AS A RESULT OF ACTION MITH ENEMY FORGES (PluÇo and cola, I known)

NOITE

INDIA 20OT. CARDUAYA COURSE SUCCRSSPULLY COMPLETED

T28. OTHERE

---

## Page 26

$7695

SERVICE

DA

90

abed

1UA

20, PRIOR REGULAR ENLISTMENIS

81. GRAVE, BATK UN RANK AT TIME OF

ENTIT INTO CURALNT ACTIVE SERVICE

NONE

Privats

29. NONE OF RICORO AY TIME OF ENTRE INTO ACTIVE SLAVICE (SILRO1, RED,

Ciri, Couniy und Sidio)

4936 Collinwood Street

Fort lorthe Tarrant. Texas

18. PLACE OF ENTRY INTO CURRENT ACTIVE SLAVICE (LIY UPID DIDIDI

Dallase

Toxas

YEARS

(1) MLT SERVICE THIS PERIOD

CREDITABLE

POR BASIC

(NY OTILLA DEHVICE

PAY

PUMPOSES

(3) TOTAL (Lino (1) + lino (3))

U. TOTAL ACTIVE SINVICE

_?

Realo Opirator

Oparator

061.30

IE. OLCORATIONS, ULDALS, BADÚLS, CUMMENDATIONS, CITATIONS ANO CRAPRIC LILAUS ALIAL IO OX AUTHORIIIO

NONE

27. WOUGS ALCLILO AS A RESULT OF ACTION MITH ENEMY TONGES (PlucCond abla, if knu:)

NOIS

28. SERVICE SCHOOLS OR COLLLSIS.

COLLEGE TRAILINO.

SCHOUL UN COURSE

AND/ON POST-CRADUATE COUGGLE SUCCRESTULLY COMPLETEO

DATA: (Froin • Tu)

MAJON COURILS

28. OMER JERTICE TRAINING

CUUMDES SUCCESSPULLY

COMPLETED

Jacksonville, Florida l8tar57-312y57

Eller, luscisciple .

1ay5? 19725"

AvnFundanentalC1N?"50o1

USAFI GED HELONY.

YA DATA

8GO. GOVIRMMENT LIFE INSURANCE IN FONCH

YES

I no

31O. VA ALNEFITS PREVIGUSLY APPLISS YOR (Spocity type)

D. AMOUNT OF ALLOTMENT

1/A

C. MONTH ALLOTMENT

DISCONTEN

D. VA CLAIM HUNDER

N/A

NONE

92. REMARKS

Lunp sum leave settlement due but not settled

Mileage paid:

$91.55 €

Rocommended for Reenlistront.

AUTHENTICATION

Ilne lost curront activo dutys Forty-five (45) deys

Por a in a non-pay statuss Exon 29Jun58 to 12Aug58

Gooc Punduct Modal porica coumoncas 27Jun58 (lot wurd)

Total raymont on someration:

9132030 (2/11/52)

"Fort for, Tarrent, 932- 5th suri,

ITUNK OF PERSUN SLINO THANSFEAALO UR DISEHARULO

Fort Worth,

SUO. TYPED NAME, GRADE AND TITLE OF AUTUORIZINE OFFICER

AGONYEKS JI lOtLE US:CR ASs't OIC Sopsoo

DD. 40686214

REPLACES EDITION OF I JUL BE WHICH IS

STATES

ODSOLETE

---

## Page 27

UNDESIRABLE

DISCHARGE

FROM THE ARMED FORCES OF THE

UNITED STATES UF AMERICA

THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT

PRIVATE FIRST CLASS LES HARVEX OSHINED 1653230

WAS DISCHARGED FROM THE

UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS

ON THE _13th DAY OF SEPTEMBER 1950

AS UNDESIRABLE

Ins bache

M. G. LETSCHER, FIRST LIEUTENANT, USMO

DO CAME

NW 55923 DocId: 32245128 Page 27

88-32089-9

---

## Page 28

ity for discharge.

at

= on the

-, 19_, 10 serve

day of

ycars

ild on discharge

/ occupational specially

(sca, foreign, ballles, crigagements, expeditions).

миї-

:.%:

питоСт

alion _

I discharge.

" thei die ubove is correci according lo lhe scroice records.

NAS, GLENVIEW, ILL. 26 Sepo

non-delivery of

Discharge

(address unkown)

aside

By direotion

NO OTTIES 10-85008-

NW 55923

20454 32245128

Page 28

---

## Page 29

FOrm OA-C591

(8-58)

belie 121-078961 0440 tates 1d.

UNIT DESTINATION

ADJ

COR

CC

CR

CL

DR

INCOMING CORRESPONDENCE ASSIGNA

(MAIL AND DISTRIBUTION SUBUNIT)

Referred to ..

Received by

Searcher

Final disposition

-----.

REMARKS:

DEPARTMENT OF

HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE

Form Approved

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

Budget Bureau

BUREAU OF OLD-AGE AND SURVIVORS INSURANCE

No. 72-R597.1

CLAIMANT'S REPORT TO

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

*: PRINT NAME OF PERSON ABOUT WHOM REPORT IS MADE

OCIAL SECURITY CLAIM NUMBER

Marina

Oswald

-433-54-3937 E,C,z

Fill.in. Only the Items) being reported.

1. CHANGE OF ADDRESS:

Check if change is for:

(Fill ja-new oddress of bottom.)

more than & mönths... D'o months or less

To avoid delay in receipt of checks you should also file a regular change

of address notice with your local past office.

Enter date of marriage

2.

MARRIAGE....

Show new name

3. DEATH.

Enter date of death

4.

DIVORCE

OR

ANNULMENT

MARRIAGE (of spouse beneficiary from

insured individual)....

Enter date decree finol

5.

CHILD OR OTHER CLAIMAN

YOUR CARE..

6. CHILD LEGALLY ADOPTED

BY

LEFT

Enter date child left your

inter date of odoption

• Stepparent

• Grandparent

I Aunt

7.

WORK OUTSIDE THE DINTED STATES:

I was employed or self-employed outside

the

United States beginning with the

month of_.

Other

Month and Year

¿ SIGNATURE of person making this report

- Marina Oswald.

Date signed

Narch 27, 1964.

P.O. Box or Street

629 Belt time

Richardson, Let se

State

, 75080

FORM OA-C668 110-62)

GPO: 19620F-663532

NW 55923

DocId: 32245128

Page 29

---

## Page 30

Form 01 C581

UNIT

' DES

PES

CC

CAS

INCOMING CORREEDANATA

DEPARTMENT O1

HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

CLAIMANT'S REPORT TO

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

PRINT NAME OF PERSON OR PERSONS ABOUT WHOM REPORT IS MADE

MARINA N. OSWALI

form Approved

Budget Bureau

No. 72-R597.2

SOCIAL SECURITY CLAIM NUMBER(5)

433-5473937-E

Fill in Only the Items) being reported.

1. CHANGE OF ADDRESS.

(Fill in new oddress of bortom.)

Check it change is for: i more than 6 months

D o months or less

To avoid delay in receipt of checks you should also file a regular change

of address notice with your local post office.

Enter date of marriage

2. MARRIAGE

Show New Name

3.

DEATH Of (Show Name)

Enter date of death

A. DIVORCE OR ANNULMENT OF MARRIAGE

(of spouse beneficiary from insured indi-

vidual).

¡Enter date decree final

Enter date child left your

•CHILD OR OTHER CLAIMANT LEFT YOUR

care

CARE . .

Show Given Name(s) of Person(s) Who Loft:

GOING OUTSIDE THE U.S.

Name of country to which going

Given Namels) of Person(s) Going

Date of departure from

U.S.A.

Enter date of odoption

CHILD LEGALLY ADOPTED

Show Given Namols) of Child(ren)

• . .

BY • Stepparent

• Grandparent

_ Aunt

• Uncle

• Other

SIGNATURE of person making this report

mrs.

Marina

P.O. Box or Streal

Oswalef

1245 DONNA DRIVE

State

Zip Code

"RICHARDSON, TEXAS 75080

Eater name of county, it any, in which you live

Dole Signec

DALLAS COUNTY

5-1-65

FORM OA-C 668(6-63)

#GPO: 196305-686-004

NW 55923 DocId: 32245128

Page 30

---

## Page 31

Form OA-C669

(11-60)

Form Approved.

Budget Bureau No. 72-R598

CLAIMANT'S REPORT ABOUT WORK TO

SOCIAL SECURITY.ADMINISTRATION

MARINA ON NO

NAME OF PERSON ABOUT WHOM REPORT IS MADE

OSWALD

SECURITY CLAIM NUMBER

Fill in Only the item being reported.

REPORT HERE IF YOU WORK

ved expect to ear more shan 81,200 during this rascable

I am working for wages of more

than $100 (or rendering substan-

tial services in self-employment)

beginning with the month of. . -

Month & Year

9-64

Fill in both boxes

I estimate that my total eamings for

this taxable year will be. ... -

Amount

5,000

Your estimate will be used to schedule benefit payments

to you during the year.

At the end of the year an annual

report of actual earnings is required, at which time ad-

justments, as necessary, will be made.

REPORT HERE IF YOU STOP WORKING

for wages of more than $100 a month (or rendering substan-

tial services in self-employment).

il

The last month I worked for wages

of more than $100 (or rendered

substantial services in self-

employment) was

Month & Year

REPORT HERE TO REVISE AN ESTIMATE

of earnings you previously gave for this taxable year.

Amount*

I estimate that my total earnings

for this taxable year will be

L$

*If $1,200 or less, show ''$1,200 or less"

Your benefit payments will be rescheduled in line with

the changes in your work activity reported above.

SIGNATURE of person making this report

Date signed

"Mas. Marine Esurald Oct. 8, 1564.

P.O. Box or street

629 BELT LINE ROAD

RICHARDSON, TEXAS 75080

GPO: 19600-572939

NW 55923

DocId: 32245128

Eage

31

---

## Page 32

-(2-84)

Referred to

Received by

Searcher --

Final disposition

REMARKS:

Wilde

PES

COR

CC

RECON

CAS

REC

INCOMING CORRESPONDENCE ASSIGNMENT RECORI

(MAIL AND DISTRIRKITIAN C..

Form Approved.

REPORTING CARD

Budget Bureau

No. 72-R597.3

PRINT NAME OF PERSON OR PERSONS ABOUT WHOM REPORT IS MADE

MARING

PorTer

ENTER SOCIAL SECURITY CLAIM SUMBER IN THIS SPACE

433

54

3731

Check or fill in ONLY the information being reported.

1. DE CHANGE OF ADDRESS (Print new address at bottom)

Cherk if change is for: [ More than 6 mos. Do mos. or less

2. [.: KING AND WILL EARN OVER $1,500 THIS YEAR:

taking for wages of more than

$i 2: a month (or rendering substan-

MONTH AND YEAR

tial services in self-employment) be-

ginning with the month of.

ward aver

Fill in both boxes

AMOUNT

I estimate that my total earnings for

this taxable year will be....

3.O STOPPING WORK:

The last month I worked for wages of

benefciartes who

more than $125 lor rendered sub-

MONTH AND YEAR

stantial services in self-employment)

WaS

work of

4. L& SIGNIFICANT CHANGE IN ESTIMATE:

The

AMOUNT

I estimate that my total earnings for

this taxable year will be.

NOTE:

...—

age 72 when the year began need not be reported.

nit

late.

osition

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTIP

ENTER DATE OF DEATH

5. DJ DEATH

6.[ GOING OUTSIDE THE U.S.

Name of country to which going

DATE GOING

DATE EXPECT TO RETURN

7. I MARRIAGE

Place of marriage (City, County & State)

DATE OF MARRIAGE

DATE DECREE FINAL

8. [ DIVORCE OR ANNULMENT. →

9. O CHILD LEGALLY ADOPTED BY

ENTER DATE OF

ADOPTION

• Brother or

Aunt or Uncle

Sister

Other

7 Grandparent

TO. DI CHILD OR

OTHER CLAIMANT

ENTER DATE HE LEFT YOUR

CARE

LEFT YOUR CARE

SIGNATURE OF PERSON MAKING THIS REPORT

Mrs. Marina 11. Porter

NUMBER AND STREET, P.O. BOX, OR ROUTE

6448 DUNSTaN LaNe

CITY

STATE

ZIP CODE

DALLas

Texas

75214

DATE SIGNED

TELEPHONE NUMBER, IF ANY

5-4-66

EM S

2177

ENTER NAME OF COUNTY, IF ANY, IN WHICH YOU LIVE

DALLaS

FORM SSA-1425 (12-051 KC

NW 55923

DocId: 32245128

Page 32

---

## Page 33

55923

DocId: 32245128

Page

33

433-54-3937

SOCIAL SEBRITY ADMINISTRATION EAC

ANNUAL REPORT

WARNINGS - 1964

Please read enclosed INS

ICTION leaflet carefully.

Гра. Екр. 12-31-66

NOTICE:

moevat makes a false statement in connection with this report is liable to

a penalty.

PRINT NAME AND ADDRESS BELOW IF. NOT

ALREADY SHOWN, THEN ANSWER QUESTIONS

ON OTHER SIDE

MARIANA N OSWARD

629 BELT LINE

RD

KICHARDSON TEX

75080

Answer only ll you answered ilem zü on olher side

Show wot

work you did in connection with your business

duriny

manth for which you made an entry in item

2d (Also explain it ownership of your business changed )

MONTHS

WHAT WORK DID YOU DO?

A/21/0)

Please do not bend, pin or tear this card

SENT

OCT

Nou

BEC

FORM OA-CTTI (12-64)

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE-SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

/5t

457

45+

457

WRITER

OEL

dbh

---

## Page 34

NW

55923

DacId: 32245128

Page

34

ote.

1. WERE YOU AN EMPLOYEE

complete a & big

WERE YOU SELF-EMPLOYED

It "yes"

YES.

completel

d. D, C & 0

DO YOU EXPECT TO EARN

OVER $1, 200 in 1965?

YES

Ir "yes"

completea & b

DATE AND

SIGN HERE

Show amount of wages earned from January 1, 1964 through December 31, 1964

(gross mages before payroll dedutions)

MAR APR MAY JUN

b. Place "X" in box for each month, if any, in which

you did NOT earn more than $100

a. Show 1964 iotal reteipts (larmers show gross profits)..

a Show 1964 net earnings lof lost lit a loss, write "" after the amount)

C. State kind of trade or business

a Place "" in box for each month, it any, in which you

believe you did NOT render substantial services in

your business and complete item 4 on the other side.

a Show your expected total earnings lor

1965..

a Are you now EITHER working for wages of over $100 a month OR

reng

SENATE

g substantial

services in

self-employment

SIGNATURE

Tires

Viverine:? Gural!

TAUG SEP

OCT

NOV DEC

935.05°

q999-

502.06

JAN|FER MAR APR|MAY JUN IUL AUG SEP| OCT NOV DEC

113

4

5,000.00

OEL

NO

diH

SOCIAL SECURITY CLAIM NUMBER

735

54 - 3737E

---

## Page 35

Form OAC-5002

(1-61)

REPORT OF CONTACT

(USE INK OR TYPEWRITER)

anne Starvey Dawalk

Dallas, Tex.

1-10-64

1733-54-3937

tasked you, Clave to look at

kis

his 941 for '762,

del a qua reperlett chat he

showed $727,81.

It is obvious that the the

13650 peng on the 794 the 162

instead a/ 433-54-39317.

+ tor

- Osward

They say,

same

did fis a

60x3/63,

number show

wrong

reports

1001'1 chippoli

Gangues

1r16a,

for underemploy

donounis

2.1001

sartr

(SIGNATURE)

(FOR CONTINUATION OF THIS REPORT. TURN PAGE.

KEEP MARGINAL SPACE AT RIGHT FOR BINDING)

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: OFFICE: 0 - 486513

NW 33923

- Dosta: 32242123

Page 35

---

## Page 36

NW

55923

DocId: 32245128

Page

36

NOTICI:

54-3937 E

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

ANNUAL REPORT OF EARNINGS - 1965

App. Exp. 12-31-06

Please read enclosed INSTRUCTION leaflet carefully.

Whoever makes a false statement in connection with this report is liable to

a penalty.

L

PREIT NAME AND ADDRESS BELOW IF NOT

ALREADY SHOWN, THEN ANSWER QUESTIONS

IN OTHER SIDE.

MARINA.

1245 DONNA

RICHARDSON

ALD

DR

TEX

15080

Answer only it you answered item Zü on other side.

Shew what work you did in connectio,

turing each month for which you ma

c an entry in dem

21 (Also explain it ownership of you

Musiness cbangat.,

MONTHS

HOURS

WHAT WORK DID YOU DO?.

Feb

JiANe

LiBrunk F148114/85100

P4, 102

AFranklin E-30-13

4/25/66

Please do not bend, pin ff tear this card.

Male math thered am hearte

"i tree:

Manadenou are rise al oaki wadio scielden alie sack to wadi eer stre....

---

## Page 37

NW

55523

DocId: 32245128

Page

37

LE YOU AN EMPLOYIS

complete a & b

NO

WERE YOU SELF-EMPLOYED

IN 19652

IT YEST

dimplet

a,b,c& d

DO YOU EXPECT TO EARN

OVER $1,500 IN

completea &b

a. Show amount vi rages carned from January 1. 1965 through December 31, 1965

(gross mages detore payroll deductions)

JAN FIB MAR APR MAY JUN

JUL lAUG SEP OCT| NOV DEC

3:115

a. Show 1965 total receipts from self employment (farmers show gross profits).

So Do where the st sell employment

c. State kind of trade or business

& Place "X" in box for each month,

any, in which you

MARI APR MAY JUN

believe you did NOT render substantial

your dusiness and complete itents on the other side.

a. Show your expected total earnings for 1806...

b. Are you now EITHER working for wages of over $125 a month OR

rendering substantial services in self-employment?

DATE

SIGNATURE

4-5-66

Mrs. Marina N. Poster

5/30.00

5130.24

writer

AUG SEP OCT | NOV DEC

10 / 11/12

SOCIAL SECURITY CLAN

2569

BACK

3)

---

## Page 38

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE

SOCIAL SECURITY ADHINISTRATION

Bureau of Old-Age and Survivors Insuranoe

Form appruird

Budget Bureau .10.72-R247.12

In replying, Address: SOCIAL SECURITY ADVINISTRATION

3716 Rawling St

P. O. Box 6556

Dallas:

Texas: 75219

retephor

RI 9-2991 te

110/64

Ve have received an application for social security benefits based upon the wages paid to the indi

vidual named below.

We need a statement of wages to process this claim.

Your cooperation in promptly

...filling.out and-retuming.this.statemen.gill.be.appreciased.n.envelope requiring no postage is enclosed

for your use. (The filing of an application does not necessarily mean that a currently employed wage earnes

_plass. co quit working) : 713:

JAGGARS-CHILES-STOVALL, INC.

522 S: BROWDER IT

NOT

WRITE

MARGIN

District Wanager

STATEMENT OF EMPLOYER

- This is to certify that wages in the amounts shown have been PAID during the calendar year(s) to

1.

LEE

HARVEY

OSWALD

433-54-3937

(Name of wage earner)

(Social security account num

Include the value of all remuneration before withholding of tax whether paid in cash or kind (but for

services performed in a private home as a domestic, or in work not in the course of the employer's trade

or business, show only the cash amount paid). If no wages were paid in the periods checked below, write

"None"; if the amounts are unknown, write "Unkaown."

If you believe any of the amounts shown are

not wages or any of the employment is not covered under the Social Security Act, outline your reasons

under "Remarks' on the back of this form.

2.

PERIOD

WAGES PAID

YEAR 18.602

WAGES PAID

YEAR 10.6. 3

WAGIS PAID

Y EAR 19

WAGES PAID

YEAR 19

January 1-March 31, inclusive.

S..

none

8. 945269

$.

$.

April 1-June 30, inclusive.

s. none

5.121.67

$.

$.

July 1-September 30, inclusive.

October 1-December 31, inclusive...

s... none

S..

727.81

s. none.

$.

$.

•$..

none

NW 55923

In item 3 below use specific tems such as file clerk, traveling or city salesman, maid, plumber,

attorney, etc. In item 7 use specific terms such as radio manufacturing, wholesale drugs, retail grocery

store, physician's office, private home, etc.

3. EMPLOYEE'S OCCUPATION

17. NATURE OF BUSINESS

Camera Dept.

4. BUSINESS NAME OF EMPLOYER (Type or print)

Jaggars-Chiles-Stovall, Inc.

S. STREET ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER

522 Browder St.

S. CITY

STATE

Dallas, Texas

DOC Ta: 5-22451:22.

Page 38

Theasaphy

8. BRITTEN SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYER OR AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEE UF FIRM

malone

TITLE OF PERSON SIGNING ABOVE

Secretary-Treasurer

10. EMPLOYER'S FEDERAL

IDENTIFICATION NO.

75 0359250

11. DATE THIS STATEMENT FILLED OUT

1-10-54

---

## Page 39

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

Bureau of Old-Age and Survitors Insuranoe

Form approsed

Budger Bureau .No.72-R247.12

3716 Rawlins St.

replying, Address: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

RT.9-2885

Dallas, Texas 75219

P. 0. Box 6556

Telephone ...

-RI 9-2991

We have received an application for social security benefits based upon the wages paid t

vidual named below.

We need a statement of wages to process this claim. Your cooperation in promptly

--fitling-out and retuming this statement will be appreciated. In envelope requiring no postage is enclosed

for your use. (The filing of an application does notmecessarily mean that a currently employed wage earner

-- plans to quit working) weir

TEXAS SCHOOL BROKe

DEPOSITORY

ELMIAT HOUSTONE.

..L DALLAS, TEXAS....

)ELickens

Distrilt Manager.

Enclosure.

WRITE

NOT

STATEMENT OF EMPLOYER

This is to certify. that wages in the amounts shown have been PAID during the calendar year (s) to

LEE

HARVE

OSWALD

433-54-3937

(Name of wage earner)

(Social security account number)

Include the value of all remuneration before withholding of tax whether paid in cash or kind (but for

Services performed in a private home as a domestic, or in work not in the course of the employer's trade

or business, show only the cash amount paid). If no wages were paid in the periods checked below, write

"None"; if the amounts are unknown, write "Unknown." If you believe any of the amounts shown are

not wages or any of the employment is not covered under the Social Security Act, outline your reasons

under "Remarks"' on the back of this form.

2.

PERIOD

WAGES PAID

YEAR 19....

WAGES PAID

Y EAR 19.

WAGES PAID

YEAR 18..

January 1-March 31, inclusive.

April 1-June 30, inclusive.

July 1-September 30, inclusive.

October 1~December 31, inclusive..

WAGES PAID

YEAR 18. 60 3

s. NONE

S.

S. NONE

$.

s.NONE

3 26/6818

$.

S.

$

$.

$.

Is.

NW 55923

In item 3 below use specific terms such as file clerk, traveling or city salesman, maid, plumber,

attorney, etc. In item 7 use specific terms such as radio manufacturing, wholesale drugs, retail grocery

store, physician's office, private home, etc.

3. EMPLOYEE'S OCCUPATION

7. NATURE OF BUSINESS

Oiser

bles

A. BUSINESS NAME OF EMPLOYER (Typoor print)

8. WRITTEN SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYER OR AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEE UF FIRM

Paral Bok Departony

S. STREET ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER

Elm as Steisten.

, St.

STATE

Darn

иням

9. TITLE OF PERSON SIGNING

не-

Prident.

10.

EMPLOYER'S FEDERAL

11. DATE THIS STATEMENT FILLED OUT

IDENTIFICATION NO

+75-04913361-10-67

Doord 2045028

Page

---

## Page 40

DIPARTUBNT OY ESALTE, BDUCATION, AND WELPARI

SOCIAL SECLAITY ADXLULITRATION

Bureau al Old-Age and SurriTors IDsarAsOR

Form approsed

Budeet Bureau. 10.72-R247.12

In replying, Address: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

Telephone.

527-2551

Te have received an application for social security benefits based upon the wages paid t

We need a statement of wages to process this claim.

Your cooperation in promptly

filling out and retuming this statement will be appreciated. An envelope requiring no postage is enclosed

for your use. (The filing of an application does not necessarily mean that a currently employed wage eamer

plans to quit working.)

Wilheir B. Rick, Co, Die

640 magaziest

Martha AM. Steen

_new arleansta

j (Mrs.) Martha A. Mesteen

Districk snager

Enclosure.

MARGIN

IN

NOT WRITE

STATEMENT OF EMPLOYER

in the amounts showed have been PAID during the calendar year(g) to-

sured

433-54-3437

(Name of mage earner)

(Social security account number)

Include the value of all remuneration before withholding of tax whether paid in cash or kind (but for

services performed in a private home as a domestic, or in work not in the course of the employer's trade

or business, show only the cash amount paid). If no wages were paid in the periods checked below, write

"None"; if the amounts are unknown, write "Unknown." If you believe any of the amounts shown are

not wages or any of the employment is nor covered under the Social Security Act, outline your reasons

under "Remarks" on the back of this form.

2.

PERIOD

WAT 6 3

Y EAR 10..

WAGES PAID

YEAR 10...

WAGIS PAID

Y EAR 19.

WAGES PAID

YEAR 1

January 1-March 31, inclusive.

s...

AS

E

April 1-June 30, inclusive..

$$.22,25

A July 1-September 30, inclusive..

$ 19/225

October 1-December 31, inclusive.

Is....

$

S_.

$

$.

S..

$

In item 3 below use specific terms such as file clerk, traveling or city salesman, maid, plumber,

attorney, etc.

In item 7 use specific terms such as radio manufacturing, wholesale drugs, retail grocery

store, physician's office, private longe, etc.

7. NATURE OF BUSINESS

ender in plast

1. BUSINESS NAME OF EMPLOYER (Type or fint)

Wm

5. STREET ADDRESSOF EMPLOYER

B. RELy co., One

Roasters

*TURE OF EMPLOYER OR AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEE UF FIRM

schlindwe Controlle

9. TITLE OF PERSON SIGNING ABOVE

6. CITY

bys Mazuzinest

10. EMPLOYER'S FEDERAL

IDENTIFICATION MO

NW 55923 DOCIS 232245/28 /Rage 49, n 1. 10130

11. DATE THIS STATEMENT FILLED OUT

1/10/646

---

## Page 41

Wage Earner

Lee A. Oswald

#11 433-54-3937

Understanding that this statement is for the use of the Social Security

Administration in the administration of the Social Security Act, Title II, I

hereby certify that the following information is correct:

(1)

were the wages shown on the attached statement of employer

reported to the Director of Internal Revenue?

Tes

No

(2)

If wages were reported, please, give date(s) reported and under

what employer's nane the reports) was made:

Same

on regelar Return

(3)

If the wages were not reported, please give reason for failure

to report:

A Hellendures Controlle

Signature

Attachment to Form OAC-1001

NOLA-7/63

NW 55923 DocId: 32245128 F

Page 41

7713.1998407875Pn

---

## Page 42

1.04

04 - 0589

70010

DEPARTMENT OF

HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

10-14-64

AMOUNT

37.50

nowledged of the following:

DESCRIPTION OF REMITTANCE

'sonal check dated 10-6-64

Forwarded by:

Mrs. Marina Oswald

629 Belt Line Road

Richardson, Texas 75080

ACKNOWLEDGED

GOT 1b lui

Always give 433-54-3937-1

Claim No.

when writing about your claim

SCHEDULE NO.

OCT 15: 1÷

Previous balance

Current remittance

Current balance

$

Next date for payment

74

-

ITN

55923

DocId: 32245128

Page 42

---

## Page 43

Form 0-4C-5003

REPORT OF CONTACT

(USE INK OR TYPEWRITER)

W/E OR SIE PERSON

See Janey Dewalk

OFFICE:

DATE!

A/N

Dallas, Texas

1/16/64

433-54-3937

CONTACT MADE:

IN PERSON

PLACE OF CONTACT:

TELEPHONE

He have requested scouting of the

faggars-Chies-Stovall, Anc. The

a 1001 showing ute's correct earringe

fix this perein, y tve have also serifid

that there carings were reported

under an incorred A iN. Dhe are

fararding claim for adjudication

without waiting for the scouting

it a see for an is pee ad

wick utie

arever, if not, me well prpare

Taro's. Runets of chis development

will he porcarded for association

DONTACT MADE BY Al. Sende.

ISIGNATURE

(FOR CONTINUATION OF THIS REPORT. TURN PAGE. KEEP MARGINAL SPACE AT RIGHT FOR BINDING)

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 069 - 674592

(over)

Claimg Bop•

(TITLE)

NN 55923

DocId: 32245128 Page 43

---

## Page 44

sorrore

- ..

MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIAL TIES

TITUS ON MON

AzElections aroper

AUTRCTATTY

GIC Spd It DFI-Dad-12 or 2T83857

DATE

25.71057

67h1

THAT SCHOOL

MICH SCHOOL

COLLECE-VANITASITY

These-busterts

EDUCATION

CIVIIAN

Acad

MUITART

XCHOOL ATTIMOTO NO COURSE

ArniundS.col uad_

8

сяка

Усноох

195%

1195

COMMITTO

11957

1957

CIVILIAN OOCUPATIONS

08 MILE (laia arra pollena)

artice Bay

TRIAS IXTITENCR

1-23.02

1072

DUTIES AT Ono Performed various clerical dutios

such as distributing natl, dalivering mes-

sages & answering telephone.

Folped filo

records & operated ditto, letter opening &

Tealing nachinos.

Dos на -

TREAS IXMANNES

DUMES PAPORATO

6

TESTING AND SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS

FOREIGN LANGUAGE

СОНТАСНЕНЬОМ

RATING

лисижся

Russian

IRA ACO ENT-3572

OPTAATA (Nerve of machine, relicle, epel parad, ode.)

UNEERSTANOS

=5. (p.)

4 (P)

MATES

TOTRL SCORI

AOU RATIMO

3(Р)

2(P)

CLASSIFICATION, APTITUDE, AMD TRADE TESTS

DATE

25 Feb59

GOT

RY

AC

PA

RSel

токм

3а

33

3а

38

39

SR-2

DATE

IJI-105

IT-725

IUTRENTICATIO

Nasse exd rend)

Irans Don Old pige

III-108

III=90

300ct56

II-я4

MIT-92

lip silen,

MCOMMIMOLO DUTY ASCICAMIAI

EUTRINCE DE OUTT

At Mantonanos and Repate

AIrcraft Fatatianca and Reps15

to Complotod #5 10702-08111

23H0r59 Bat persod USAFI HS GED

to: 46+2-57-3-55-4-58, 5-52

(led)

100

(мн64)

Harvey

SIRIC на

1653230

+ 00-145-0-839100

FOLSOM ExHIBIT No. 1-Continued (n. 7)

NW

55923

DocId: 32245128

Page

44

---

## Page 45

The sarine has no firm.öffer.of employment he has

indicated that his former e.ployer will entertain offering

enploy...ent with a suitablo salary to provide the necessury

sort of his mother.

3.

In evaliation of all facts available.

it is the opinion

ni the Board that Private First Class OSWALD meete the

requirements of pr: graph 10273 ridi for release from

ac ive duty.

The Board recommends that Private First Class Lee ii.

CSWALD be released

from active daty with the marine Cor,'s

for reasons of dependency.

Bis legale

B. J. KOZAN

Lieutenant Colonel, U. S. Marine Corps

FOLSOM EXHIBIT No. 1-Continued (p. 80)

10: OCK: wdp

26 Aug 1959

TIIIRD ENDORSEMENT on PfC OSWALD's lir of 17 Aug 1959

From:

Commanding General, 3d Marine Aircraft Wing

To:

Senior Member,

3d Marine Aircraft Wing Hardship/

Dependency Discharge Board..

Subj:

Dependency Discharge; request for; case of Private

Farst Class Lee H. OSWALD 1653230/6741 USMC

Ref:

(b) Para 10273 MarCorMan

(c) CG 3d MAW ItI to LtCo1 KOZAK: 10:RH:dln of 30

Jul 1959

1. Delivered.

In accordance with the provisions. of subparagraph 9c of

reference. (b), you will convene the 3d Marine. Aircraft Wing

Hardship/ Dependency Discharge Board,

as designated by ref-

rence (c), as soon as practicable for the purpose of con-

sidering the subject case.

3.

The recommendations of the Board will be returned to this

Headquarters by endorsement hereon as expeditiously as possible.

W. A. CLOMAN, JR.

By direction

FOLSOM ExHIBIT No. 1-Continued (p. 81)

726

55923 DocId: 32245128

Lage

45

---

## Page 46

TUE 2S 1059

FOURTH ENDOKSEENT On PIC OSWALD'S It of 17 Aug 1959

From: Senior member, 3d marine Aircraft Wing Hardship or

Dependency

Discharge Doard

To:

Comnanding General, 3d warine Aircraft Wing

Subj:

Discharge b: reason of dependency; request lor case of

Private First Class Lee H. OSWALD 1653230/6741 US6

1.

Guided oy the provisions of reference (a) and in compli-

ance with Third Endorsement hereto, the Hardship or Dependency

Discharge Board met at 1530, 27 sugust 1959 to consider the

case of

Private First Class

Lee d. OSWALD 1653230/0741 US..C.

The Marine had submitted an official request for a dependency

discharge in accordance with reference (a).

The following

members were present:

Lieutenant Colonel Bolish J. KOLAK 07108 USriC '(-WHG-3)

Major George E. MC CLANE 016430/7335 USIC (MAG-36)

major Eugene T. CARD 035129/7304 US:C (NWHG-3)

Upon exanination of the basic request

supporting encl-

osures and Service necord, Private.

First Class Lee i. OSWALD

was interviewed

by the Board. The following facts were

then considered:

a. Private First Class Lee H. OSWALD, not married, on

his initial three (3) year

enlistment in the Marine Corps

is obligated to

serve on active duty until 7 December 1959.

b.

The Marine submitted his request for a dependency

discharge in order that he may provide physical and

financial assistance to his invalid mother residing in

Fort Worth, Texas.

c. The home situation of. Private First Class

been

aggravated subsequent to his enlistment date through

incapacitation of his mother as a result of an industrial

accident.

The mother is no longer gainfully employed die

to her physical condition and has no source of incone.. the

presence of her

son, Private First Class OSWALD, is required

for nhysical and financial assistance:

married and residing in fort worth is

unable to provide either financial of physical assistance

to the varines mother due to his.

marital responsibilities

the inability of the two families to maintain a common

Another son, married, with the U. S. Air

Force on

ictive duty in japan, cannot furnish financial support.

FOLSON EXHIBIT No. 1-Continued (p. 78)

NW 55923 DooId: 32245128 Page 46

---

## Page 47

PAYMENT CENTER

DISTRICT OFFICE

DALLAS TEX

NAME OF A/N HOLDER

OSWAL DaLEE N

MULTIPLE N

MULTIPLE A/N

OF CLAIMS STATUS IPREPARSTRICT OFFICE

CLAIMS STATUS (PREPARE CAUSE

REQUEST DATE

TYPE ACTION

I ISLE OVERTIFICATION

BLOCK NUMBER

ACCOUNT NUMBER

814

17

64 B-SOA G 74962

DATE OF BIRTH

DATE OF APPL.

M, 10

MILITARY SERVICE

39

DATE OF ONSET

MO. ELECT.

433-54-3937

DATE OF DEATH

124

RR SERVICE

TYPE

PERIOD

LAG INFORMATION FURNISHED BY DISTRICT OFFICE

AMOUNT

EIN

PERIOD

LAG

NP

AMOUNT

FAMILY COMPOSITION

PRIOR CERTIFICATION

FORM

EIN

AUXILIARY OR SURVIVOR DATA

DATE OF BIRTH

MO. ELECT.

DED.

DATA

REMARKS

IDENTIFYING INFORMATION -- ACCOUNT NUMBER UNKNOWN

FORM OA.C700 (IDP) 1.62

SS.5 REMOVED BY

S- BATE FA

ITW

55923

DocId: 32245128

Page 47

---

## Page 48

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-107

MAY 1882 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Kansas City Payment Center

FROM : Jess C. Carter, Assistant Manager

Dallas, Texas

SUBJECT: Lee Harvey Oswald - A/N 433 54 3937

CONFIDENTIAL - ADMINISTRATIVE

DATE: June 3, 1965

Our newspaper has reported the re-marriage of the wage earner's

widow. Since the language barrier is still a problem with her

it is possible she will overlook making a proper report.

Reportedly the marriage took place on Tuesday June 1, 1965.

Junt anted

ane Demean suited racia.

(2510'0, 101,526

R681

6/7/65

NW 55923 DooId: 32245128

Buy W.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

Page 48

---

## Page 49

IN OFFICE

NIR DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE.:

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

de a Jawa?

WAGE EARNER:

When writing about your claim

always give Claim No.

433-54-3937C

3716 Rawlins Street

F.0. Fox 6556

DEllas, lexes

75219

Nirs Tharen

a faster

733 Scattadale

Richardson 22475080

This will acknowledge your inquiry regarding the check(s) for the

months) of

July 1969 to be see in Oug

The Treasury Department desires that each person promptly receive the

amount due him but wishes to avoid unnecessary expense in record search-

ing which results in many instances in finding the check was correctly

paid.

On a notice, such as you have furnished us, the Treasury Department

must necessarily search its payment records from the date of issuance of

the check until the date that a substitute check will be issued. Because

of the large volume of payments, the searching operation entails a heavy

expense for each item. Accordingly, it is requested that you fill out

the questionnaire on the reverse of this notice and RETURN IT IN THE

ENCLOSED ENVELOPE. UNLESS THIS QUESTIONNAIRE IS RETURNED NO FURTHER

ACTION WILL BE TAKEN.

If you receive the check before hearing from the Treasury Department

you should notify the social security district office shown above. Yeu

may use the enclosed post card to notifyus. After sending in this noti-

fication, you may cash the check.

Upon receipt of this questionnaire, action if necessary, will be taken

by the Treasury Department to place a stop payment on the check and to

refer the case to the United States Secret Service for investigation and

clearance so a duplicate check can be sent to you.

ment will get in touch with you if it needs further information.

Sincerely yours,.

District Manager

Enclosures:

Envelope

Post Card 0A-61247

Check Number

DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS LINE

Date

DACHS, TOMAS

RUG TA 1083

Amount

71014

SSA

FORM SSA-L795 110,66

#FORMERLY. OA.CL/351

NW 55923 DocId: 32245128 Page 49

---

## Page 50

For Approved.

Budget Bureau No. 72-R417.7

A PROMPT REPLY WILL EXPEDITE ACTION:

QUESTIONNAIRE

1. Have you received the check described on the other side of this sheet?..

Yes

If your answer is "Yes" destroy this form; fill out and mail the enclosed post card.

2. If your answer is "No,"' have you asked your local post office about the check?

(If your answer is "No," this should be done.).

• No

3. If you recently changed your mailing address, have you tried to find out whether

the check is being held there for you at your old address or was returned to the post

office? (If your answer is "No,"' this should be done.).

Vives

No

4.

Have you any information which you think might assist the Treasury Department

in locating the check? (If your answer is "Yes,"' please give such information

under "Remarks.")...

_ Yes

is it possible that you received the check and cashed it, thinking it was issued

for another purpose? (If your answer is "Yes," please explain under "Remarks.")

Yes

No

o. If this check was illegally cashed, you will be entitled to payment of the amount of the check; however,

another check in place of it will not be issued until the case has been fully investigated by the United States J

Secret Service. As it may be necessary to contact you for further information, please furish on the line below

the address at which you may be reached during the daytime, if such place is different from your residence.

SAme

...s

(Number and Street)

Residence

(City, State and ZIP Code)

7. If the check was mailed to a different address than shown below, please fumish that address.

(Number and Street)

(City, State and ZiP Code)

8. After reviewing all circumstances, I/we wish to make formal claim to the Treasury Department for stoppage of

payment of this check and the issuance of a substitute check.

yes

9. REMARKS (State any other facts which may aid in locating the check):

SIGNATURE OF PAYEE OR CLAIMANT

this questionnaire has been signed by mark (X), two witness

ho know the person must sign below, giving their full addresse

T. NAME

ADDRESS (Street number, City, State and ZIP Code)

Z. NAME

ADDRESS (Street number, City, State and ZIP Code)

Mis. Kennetle Ports.

SIGNATURE OF CO-PAYEE (Both husband and wife must sign il co-

payees of a combined check)

RESIDENCE NUMBER AND STREET

733 Scattadale Ne

STATE AND ZIP CODE

Rechartson,

Lex

TELEPHONE NUMBER

Aug 12, 1969

7D 1-0720

U.S. GOYERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 19860-238-886

NW 55923-DoeId: 32245125-Page- 50~

---

## Page 51

,7631

OFFICE

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTHY EDUCATION LO

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

3716 Ravlins Street

P, O, Box 6556

Dallas, Texes

75219

FARE

WAGE EARNER: Lu Osarald

When writing about your

always give Claim No.

JFK Act 6 (3)

Mo.

Porter

733 Scattedale

Richardso, Lex.

25080

JUL

19

-

DELAYED

prY

INS.

"Bi

This will acknowledge your inquiry regarding the check(s) for the montlife,

of

pune 1969

• The Treasury Department desires that each person promptly receive the

amount

due him but wishes to avoid unnecessary expense in record search-

ing which

results in many instances in finding the check was correctly

paid.

On a notice, such as you have furnished us, the Treasury Department

must necessarily search its payment records from the date of issuance of

the check until the date that a substitute check will be issued. Because

of the large volume of payments, the searching operation entails a heavy

expense for each item.

Accordingly, it is requested that you fill out

the questionnaire on the reverse of this notice and RETURN IT IN THE

ENCLOSED ENVELOPE.

UNLESS THIS QUESTIONNAIRE IS RETURNED NO FURTHER

ACTION WILL BE TAKEN.

You

fication, you may cash

the check.

Upon receipt of this questionnaire, action if necessary, will be taken

by the Treasury Department to place a stop payment on the check and to

refer the case to the United States Secret Service for investigation and

clearance so a duplicate check can be sent to you. The Treasury Depart-

ment will get in touch with you if it needs further information.

Sincerely yours,

Clarence Vaden

District Manager

Enclosures:

Envelope

-Past Card OA G1247

Check Number

75080

NW 55923 DocId: 32245128 Page 51

DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS LINE

Date

43l69

Amount

FORM SSA-L735 (10-66)

(FORMERLY OA-CL735)

---

## Page 52

Bud A Burved No. 72-R417.1

A PROMPT REPLY WILL EXPEDITE ACTION

QUESTIONNAIRE

1. Have you received the check described on the other side of this sheet?

Yes

ISNO

If your answer is "Yes" destroy this form; fill out and mail the enclosed post card.

2. If your answer is "No," have you asked your local post office about the check?

X Yes

_ No

(If your answer is "No," this should be done:)..

3. If you recently changed your mailing address, have you tried to find out whether

the check is being held there for you at your old address of was returned to the

post office? (If your answer is "No," this should be done.) ...

J Yes

EZiNO

4. Have you any information which you think might assist the Treasury Department

in locating the check? (If your answer is "Yes,"' please give such information

under "Remarks.")..

Yes

I NO

5. Is it possible that you received the check and cashed it, thinking it was issued

for another purpose? (If your answer is "Yes," please explain under "Remarks.")

_ Yes

): this check was i'legally cashed, you will be entitled to payment of the amount of the check; however,

another check in place of it will not be issued until the case has been fully investigated by the United States

Secret Service. As it may be necessary to contact you for further information, please furnish on the line below

the address at which you may be reached during the daytime, if such place is different from your residence.

703

Scuttsdule

(Number and Street)

dr.

Kickardson.

(City, State and ZI PjEode)

7. If the check was mailed to a different address than shown below, please furnish that address.

(Number and Street)

(City, Stale and ZiP Code)

8. After reviewing all circumstances, I/we wish to make formal claim to the Ireasury Department for stoppage of

payment of this check and the issuance of a substitute check.

9. REMARKS (State any other (acts which may

aid in locating the check):

I this questionnaire has been signed by mark (X), two witnesse

who know the person must sign below, giving their full addresses

T. NAME

ADDRESS (Street number, City, State and ZIP Code)

2. NAME

ADDRESS (Street number, City, State and ZIP Code)

SIGNATURE OF PAYEE OR CLAIMANT

Mes. Kenneth Pister

SIGNATURE OF CO-PAYEE(Both husband and wife must sign if co•

payees of a combined check)

733 Suttsdale de.

RESIDENCE NUMBER AND STREET

Richaidson

1e.x9s,

15080

CITY. STATE AND ZIP CODE

TELEPHONE NUMBER

AD../- 0720

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1967 0 - 265-973

NW 55923

DocId: 32245128 Page 52

---

## Page 53

Form OA-C107 (5-64)

Form Approved by Comptroller General, U.S.

January 28, 1955

DETERMINATION OF

RESUMPTION OF AWARD

Department of

Health,

Education,

and Welfore

Social Security Administration

3116

RAWLINS STI

ACCOUNT NUMBER

DACCASITEX

ot

433-

54-3937

THE FOLLOWING DETERMINATION IS BASED ON SUPPORTING EVIDENCE ON FILE

ERTIFICATION OF PAYMENT IS RECOMMENDED AS FOLLOWS:

LAME AND ADDRESS

MARINA N.

PORTER'

FOR MINOR CHILDREN OF

1245 RONNA DR.

FOR

RICHARDSON, TX 75080'

GUARDIAN OF

1. TEMPORARY DEDUCTIONS _

2. PERMANENT DEDUCTIONS-

_EMPLOYED_.

"E"- aurono 1/65 - 2/65 FA.

TRAins 5 5 130, 46298008 3680

EARNINGS S_

'160

6, 40,30

3.-

_ EMPLOYED OUTSIDE THE U.S.

4.

MOTHER

HER

HAS A

CHILD IN

CARE

BEGINNING

IT HAS BEEN DETERMINED

THAT THE ABOVE

PERSON IS

PROPER

PAYEE.

9.

ATTAINED

AGE

A CO BENE

'O CORREC

RECOMP

• SECURITY ACCOUNT NC

NAME OR SOCIAL

8. NEW ADDRESS

"I. OTHE E"- TERA1 - 6/05 REMARRTAG EXC

587 5130

< 24) (-(34.50(34.50)

IDEN.

CODE

IDEN.

CODE

PERIOD

BEGIN.

DATE

MONTHLY

RATE

AMOUNT

FROM

TO

EX

3340

40,301/65 2/65 80.60

40.30365

S6S

120.40

R45 (40.30)

EFFECTIVE

FROM

165

565

165-2/65

AMOUNT

167.00

W

NET

AMOUNT

DUE

2

34,50

''' TOO

A-6J

4 1 KOMEY

PREPARED @T EXAMINER

D. SHUND FIGHTI

71/23/06/07 rankin E 30-13

TO ERF#80WE:325428 Page 53

ABS-C35

SC-3

DATE

4/25/66

---

## Page 54

Form OA-C107 (2-64)

Fantory 28, 19 by Comptollor Goneral, U.S.

DETERMINATION OF

RESUMPTION OF AWARD

Department of

Health, Ed: sation, and Welfore

Social Security Administratior

DISTRICT OFFICE

CLAIM NUMBER

3716 Rawlins St.

Dallas, Tex. 75219

433-54-3937

THE FOLLOWING DETERMINATION IS BASED ON SUPPORTING EVIDENCE ON FILE AND CERTIFICATION OF PAYMENT IS RECOMMENDED AS FOLLOWS:

NAME AND ADDRESS

FOR MINOR CHILDREN OF

FOR

Marina N. Oswald

629 Belt Line Rd.

Richardson, Tex. 75080

GUARDIAN OF

1. TEMPORARY DEDUCTIONS

E

EMPLOYED

9/64 ON (Partial)

2. PERMANENT DEDUCTIONS

EMPLOYED

EDRAINGS S-

TOTAL

EXCESS

EARNINGS $

CHARGEABLE

EXCESS

EARNINGS S __

TOTAL

MONTH ::

BENEF:!:

3..

EMPLOYED OUTSIDE THE U.S.

4.

HER CARE BEINNING

CHILD IN

IT HAS BEEN DETERMINED THAT THE ABOVE

5.

PERSON IS

THE PROPER PAYEE

G. RECOMP.

7. SECURITE ACCOUNT NO SOCIAL

9.

AGE INED

COMBINE

10. A & E BENEFITS

8. NEW ADDRESS

_ 202 (T) EXC

11. OTHER

ONE

NE CHECH

BENEFICIARY NOTICE:

A -

AWARD

X ADJUSTMENT

SUPP L/S

ONDITIONA

DJUSTMEN

FOLDER

REFERENCE

"S"

MONTHLY BENEFIT

PMT. BEN.

IDEN.LIDEN

CODE CODE

ACCRUED BENEFIT

PERIOD

DEDUCTIONS

BEGIN.

DATE

MONTHLY

RATE

EFFECTIVE

AMOUNT

AMOUNT

FROM

TO

FROM

TO

n-=

NET

AMOUNT

DUE

E

37.60

9/64

9/64

37.60

37.50

AA:

37.50

E

10/64

31.40

9/64

9/64

31.40

2

31.30

REMARKS

PIA

71.00

MAX.

106.60

E

31.40

C2 37.60

PREPARED BY-EX

C1-37.60

DATE

10 - 16-64

N 5591 Dotla:$2245128 Page 54

AA-Excess refund received on

Schedule #74, dtd. 10/15/64

35 KC OCT

чв. Laun

DATE

10/16/64

---

## Page 55

Form OA- C107 (5-64)

Farm A reve by Comptroller General, U.S.

January 28, 1955

DISTRICT OFFICE

DETERMINATION OF

RESUMPTION OF AWARD

Department of

Health, Education, and Welfare

Social Security Administration

ACCOUNT NUMBER

+33-54-39375

THE FOLLOWING DETERMINATION iS BASED ON SUPPORTING EVIDENCE ON FILE AND CERTIFICATION OF

PAYMENT IS RECOMMENDED AS FOLLOWS:

FOR MINOR CHILDREN OF

NAME AND ADDRESS

MARINA

N. OSWALD

FOR

GUARDIAN OF

1. TEMPORARY DEDUCTIONS

EMPLOYED

2. PERMANENT DEDUCTIONS_

EMPLOYED

165 ON (PARTIAL)

9/64-12167 (PARTeRh)

ERRAINOs $ 9999.05

ExACt 8 8549.01

..'*RGEABLE

AMOS 5 24.80 HOME 537. 50

3.-

EMPLOYED OUTSIDE THE U.S.

MOTHER HA.

3. MOT HAR HASA CHING "

5. PERSO SEEN TEE PEEPER PAYERBOVE

6. RECOMP.

7. SECURITY A

ACCOMET NO SOCIAL

J8. NEW ADDRESS

9. AGE INED

COMBINE

10. A.& COMENEFITS

202 (T) EXC

11. OTHER

ONE CHECH

ONLY

BENEFICIARY

NL

A-

AWARD

ADJUSTMENT

SUPP L/S

AONOSTMENT

REFERENCE

OTICE:

PMT.

BEN.

IDEN. IDEN.

CODE CODE

MONTHLY BENEFIT

ACCRUED BENEFIT

DEDUCTIONS

BEGIN.

DATE

MONTHLY

RATE

PERIOD

EFFECTIVE

AMOUNT

AMOUNT

NET

AMOUNT

DUE

FROM

TO

FROM

TO

REMARKS

PIA 11.00

Wilks 202÷/20/45

7/a1/4s1PnBunkn C0659/29/65

NW 55923 DocId: 32245128

Page 55

---

## Page 56

.-0.

..-

CLC

SPA

--

-éxT:

.misfriktareiris.iandiian.a.e.chnd.ie untiabiase" iasti ooit kilnishistcic e

FORM OA-C528b (4-84) EC

DISTRICT OFFICE

DETERMINATION OF

TERMINATION OF ENTITLEMENT

OR SUSPENSION OF PAYMENTS

BASED ON SUPPORTING EVIDENCE ON FILE

ADJMT. CODING

CR. BLOCK NO.

Marina N. Oswald

DATE OF BIRTH

PAYEE FILE

MONTHLY RATE

SHOULD HAVE BEEN (SHOULD BE) STOPPED

45

31.40

6/65

DIARY FILE

LAST SCHED. NO.

TREASURY REQUESTED TO DISCONTINUE PAYMENT

CROSS-REF.

9A

6/65

ACCOUNT NO.

• 0. Investigation pending determ. of cont. disability

4. Failure to have a child entitled

[ 1. Worked outside the United States

to benefits in your care

• 2. Worked and expects net earnings to exceed

5. OAIB worked outside the

$1200

United States

• 3. OAIB worked and expects net earnings to exceed

$1200

-[Cierk)

0. Benefits payable by some other agency

1. Death of beneticiary

[ 2. Dependent terminated due to death of insured individual

X 3. Ripeseoodauiear

Remarriage

• 4C. Attained age 18 and not disabled

[ 4. Child attained age 18 and not disabled

D 5. Beneficiary entitled to other benefits

[ 6C. Child no longer disabled

• 9.

]

T+: 74447 75 sr tei no eties9es nga -tpa .

r. Iourte: +53-894-385721

wird.eorong seyo.. a..

CLAIM NO.

433-54-3937-E

W. E.

DATE

6/7/65

0 2 08 JUN '65 KC

PIC

E

]

INITIALS

mny

D 7. Refused VR Services

8. Payee not determined

9.

(Dares 7.

(Reriewer)

Death

Marriage of child

[ 7C. Adoption

%. Adoplioa of child

• 8H. DIB no longer disabled

• 8. Mother terminated-

Child no longer disabled

• X. DIB attained age 65

[J R. Claim withdrawn

-....a.

NW 55923 DocId:32245128 Page 56

---

## Page 57

FORM OA-C528b (1-64) EC

DISTRICT OFFICE

DETERMINATION OF

TERMINATION OF ENTITLEMENT

OR SUSPENSION OF PAYMENTS

BASED ON SUPPORTING EVIDENCE ON FILE

TADIMT. CODING

A9

CR. BLOCK NO.

CLAIM NO.

433-54-03937

W. E.

DATE

10/16/64

1-0 40200764 KC

PIC

E

Marina N. Oswald

INITIALS

DATE OF BIRTH

PAYEE FILE

MONTHLY RATE

SHOULD HAVE BEEN (SHOULD BE) STOPPED

DIARY FILE

45

SPA

37.60

LAST SCHED. NO

TREASURY REQUESTED TO DISCONTINUE PAYMENT

CROSS-REF.

9A

20/61

ACCOUNT NO.

0. Investigation pending determ. of cont. disability

• 4. Failure to have a child entitled

• 1. Worked outside the United States

to benefits in your care

2. Worked and expects net earnings to exceed

• 5. OAIB worked outside the

$1200

United States

• 3. OAIB worked and expects net earnings to exceed

$1200

• 7. Refused VR Services

• 8. Payee not determined.

9.

no. r. + 194164-51

• 0. Benefits payable by some other agency

• 1. Death of beneficiary

• 2. Dependent terminated due to death of insured individual

@ 3. Divorce Marriage Remarriage

_ 4C. Attained age 18 and not disabled

• 4. Child attained age 18 and not disabled

D 5. Beneficiary entitled to other benefits

• 6C. Child no longer disabled

9.

]

J 6u Death Marriese of child

• 7C. Adoption

I 7, Adoption of child

8H. DIB no longer disabled

• 8. Mother terminated-

Child no longer disabled.

• X. DIB attained age 65

• R. Claim withdrawn

NW 55923 DốcId: 32245128 Page 57

---

## Page 58

PREVIOUS DISTRICT OFFICE

NEW DISTRICT OFFICE

DATE

DEPARTMENT OF

HEALTH. EDUCATION. AND WELFARE

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

PAYEE, ADDRESS CHANGE, OR HOLD CHECK REQUEST

WAGE EARNER

PIC

CLAIM NO.

E

SPA

433 54 3937 ₴

FLOA

LLOA

5/20/65

TR FILE CODE

03140

CLC

5 & C CODE

9A

45 45390A

ADDRESS CHANGE

HOLD CK DATED.

[X PAYEE CHANGE

DEALEN FATABLE TO - 6/3/65

Mariana N Oswald

FORM OA-C610 (2.64)

myj

Marina N Oswald

1245 Donna Dr

Richardson Tex 75080

FILE COPY

NIN

55923

DooId: 32245128

Page

58

•

---

## Page 59

PREVIOUS DISTRICT OFFICE

DEPARTMENT OF

HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

PAYEE, ADDRESS CHANGE. OR HOLD CHECK REQUEST

WAGE EARNER

PIC

NEW DISTRICT OFFICE

3716 RAWLINS ST

DALLAS TEX 75219

CLAIM NO.

DATE

05/05/65 06

FLOA

LLOA

MBA

SPA

2

3

03,40

TR FILE CODE

CLC

§ & C CODE

9A

45

4539017

ADDRESS CHANGE

MARINA

MARIANA N OSWALD

1245 DONNA DR

RICHARDSON TEX

HOLD CK DATED

A PAYEE CHANGE

REPLACE CK DATED

DRAWN PAYABLE TO

MARIANA N OSWALE REDIRECTED

FORM OA-C610B (6.64)

FILE COPY

433 54 3937 E

- 75080

55923 DocId: 32245128

Page

59

---

## Page 60

US DISTRICT OFFICE

NEW DISTRICT OFFICE

TEALTH. EDUCATION. AND WELFARI

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

PAYEE, ADDRESS CHANGE, OR HOLD CHECK REQUEST

WAGE EARNER

CLAIM NO.

4-3-64

LLOA

MBA

4

03760

CODE

CLC

5 & C CODE

1.22

115390

pRESS CHANGE

-D CK DATED

'EE CHANGE

LAN PAYABAE PO

Marina N Oswald

629 Belt Line

Richardson Tex 75080

433 54 3937 8

4-(610 (6.63)

FILE COPY

NW

55923 Doold: 32245128

Page

60

---

## Page 61

Form OA-C526 (1-61)

Form approved by

Comptroller General, U. S., October 25, 1950

CLASS OF ACTION

BENEFIT SUMMARY

PMT.

IDEN

CODE

E

E

BEN.

IDEN.

CODE

MONTHLY BENEFIT

BEGIN.

DATE

7/64

MONTHLY

RATE

37.60

213.00

ACCRUED BENEFIT

PERIOD

FROM

TO

1/63

1/64

LaS.

AMOUNT

112.80

213,00

EFFECTIVE

FROM

TO

Department of Health, Education, and Welfare

Social Security

Administration

Bureau of Old-Age and Survivors Insurance

ACCOUNT NUMBER

433-54-3937

DEDUCTIONE

AMOUNT

NET

AMOUNT

DUE

325.80

ei

26475.20 '/63 /64 /64225.60

225.60

REMARKS

C12

137 P 74KC FEB

CLERK

DATE

REVIEWER

7. Carlel

I U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1962-666121

NW 55923 DocId: 32245128 Page 61

DATE

2-3-64

---

## Page 62

Form OA-C-101

I. INSURED INDIVIDUAL

Lee H Oswald

2. REQUIRED ATRS.

¡ HAS AT LEAST

6

5. TOTAL EARNINGS

3306.85

6

NAME

SYMBOL

G1

E

C2

June L

c1

Audrey M

Determination of Award

W

DATE OF BIRTH

DATE OF DEATH

DATE CLAIM FILED

10/19/39

11/24/63

RACE

CURRENT QTRS. 3. First Base Yr. Or Starting Date

1957

ELAPSED YRS. OR

YRS. DROPPED

61-02

ORIGINAL

BENEFIT

LAST BASE YR. OR CLOSING DATE 4. LUMP SUM AMOUNT

1963

213.00

PRIMARY AMOUNT

DISABILITY PERIOD EXCLUDED

DATE OF

BIRTH

DATE CLAIM

FILED

DIVISOR

24

ANY OTHER

BENEFITS

INCREMENTS

71.00

ADJUSTED

BENEFIT

RELATIVE'S ACCT.

NUMBER (IF ANY

7/17/41

1/9/64

53.30

37.60

2/15/62

53.30

10/20/63

53.30

37.60

37.60

8. REIMBURSABLE F. H. EXPENSES ARE

i1. REMARKS

PAID AS FOLLOWS

158 P 7 4K0FEB

12. CERTIFICATION OF PAYMENT

Symbol

Name and address of payee as."

claimant of as representative of the claimant

*Marina N Oswald

E

- 63

Bx 1407

Grand Prairie Tex 75050

Marina N Oswald for minor children of L H Oswald

Same

REMAINS UNPAID

3716 Rawlins St

Dallas Tex 75219

DATE OF

ENTITLEMENT

TO MONTHLY

BENEFITS

11/63

7. MAXIMUM PAYABLE

112.80

T D.0. CODE

814

HF -

MONTHLY

BENEFIT

37.60

LUMP.SUM

DEATH

PAYMENT

213.00

11/63

75.20

Pursuant to

lawfully

delegated authority, I certify that,

on application by

or on behalf of the claimants) named above as payee(s) and the supporting

evidence forwarded herewith,

the foregoing statements are my determination

of fact and decisions as to-the benefit(s) to be paid as indicated.

By

(Claims

Representative)

Date

1/16/64

I certity

that pursuant to lawfully delegated authority

have

verified the

above statements

with

the supporting evidence on

in

this office;

that 1

have computed all amounts and that same

are

correct as shown;

and

that

all

indicated benefit(s)

are in accordanca with

the

provisions of

Title

11

of the

Social Security

Act? as aprended.

Approved

+ 6-77-771

(Claims Authorizer)

bato */ 3/64

NW

55923 Do910:32245128

Page 62

IGPO 1982-836878

---

## Page 63

ACCOUNT NUMBER

1958

PIA

433543937

71.00

BENEFICIARY'S NAME

OSWALD

01

PD

37.60

2.70

40.30

01

PD

53.30

3.70

57.00

OSWALD

01

PD

01

PD

37.60

2.70

40.30

53.30

3.70

57.00

•OSWALD

21

PD

31.40

2.00

33.40

AUDREY

01

PD

37.68

?.70

40.30

01

PD

53.30

3.70

57.00

JUNE

01

PD

01

PD

37.60

2.70

40.30

53.30

3.70

57.00

MARINA

21

PD

31.40

2.00

33.40

1965

PIA

FAMILY

MAXIMUM

76.00

114.00

A

01

PD

01

PD

N

21

PD

PIC

BIC

LAF

C1

C

37.60

2.70

40,30

01

PD

37.60

2.70

40,30

C1

37.60

2.70

40,30

01

PD

37.60

2.70

40.30

01

PD

!

TOTAL PAYMENT AMOUNT

E

E

T.3

31.40

2.00

33.40

21

PD

31.40

2.00

33.40

21

PD

REMARKS

RETROACTIVE

AMOUNT PAID

24.60

01

PD

37.60

2.70

40.3!

24.60

37.60

2.70

40.30

49.20

10.00

31.40

2.00

33.40

C

OLD MBA

INCREASE

NEW MBA

FORM OA-(596,5-651

NW 55923

OLD MBA

INCREASE

NEW MBA

OLD MBA

INCREASE

NEW MBA

W

D

OLD MBA

INCREASE

NEW MBA

D

1965 CONVERSION OF BENEFIT RATES

DocId: 32245128 Page 63

OLD MBA

INCREASE

NEW MBA

TRANSCRIP

09/65R

NEW

MONTHLY RATE

57.00

01

PD

53.30

3.70

57.00

01

PD

57.00

53.30

3.70

57.00

T

NP

114.00

33.40

31.40

2.00

33.40

OLD MBA

INCREASE

NEW MBA

---

## Page 64

!

....

DEPARTMENT OF

HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE

SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

APPOINTMENT OF REPRESENTATIVE

I apin James 2. Martin

-- to act as my repre-

sentative with respect to my claim under the Social Security Act, based on the eamings record of

Lee Harvey Oswald

433-54-3937

(Name of wage eamer or self-employed individual)

-,

(Social security account number)

The above-named representative is authorized to obtain from the Administration informa-

tion conceming my claim;

and it is understood that any notice: "quest sent to him shall have

the same force and effect as if sent to me.

Jan 20, 1964

(Date)

1/rs: Marino N Oswalc

(Signature)

Pe O. Box 1407

Grand Prairie, Texas

ACCEPTANCE OF APPOINTMENT

I accept the above appointment. I am a person in good standing in my community and I am

able to assist and advise the above party in this case.

Business advisor

Union representative, relative, etc.

James A Martin

/ell Farrar sT.

ран. 10, 196%

Dallas, Telas

SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR REGULATIONS AS TO FEES OF REPRESENTATIVES FOR SERVICES TO A

PARTY AND INFORMATION ON CONFLICT OF INTEREST)

NOTI AC-511

3-60)

NW 55923

DocId: 32245128

Page 64

---

## Page 65

8-8 08.0.0

MOrM OAC-5002

(1-54)

REPORT OF CONTACT

(USE INK OR TYPEWRITER)

"Dallas, Tép

DATE: .

1-10- 64

W/E OR S/E PERSON

Hic Stazvey dswald

11433-54-3937

NAME AND ADDRESS OF PERSON(S) CONTAETED:

.James A, Martin - Bininise

Nianager fer Ars. 1.74. Cewald

Ruccorcomne Dallas

discussed the cmmunt of carmings

tr 1963 with Mr. Martin. Te said rar

Nicll's vere carrect. He stated, ti' -

2h00 shomn en the cygphaatin

ht:/ww.enonglpc.coum

o ful that sie can accipt

1 Istal for 1963 wilteut

lecitancy

NW 55923

-Juutetartia

Auct Iigs.

(FOR CONTINUATION OF THIS REPORT. TURN PAGE. KEEP MARGINAL SPACE AT RIGHT FOR BINDING)

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1958 0 - 486513

DocId: 32245128 Pagertoe4reeftrmpeeaeepposnesa

---

## Page 66

For 0645-5002

REPORT OF CONTACT

(USE INK OR TYPEWRITER)

OFFICE:

DATE:

W/E OR S/E PERSON

A/N

NAME AND ADDRESS OF PERSON(S) CONTACTED:

=

CONTACT MADE:

Tranomittal=

PLACE OF CONTACT:

rencral

millis ta a perati

Itain a statiment

aili

(TITLE)

(FOR CONTINUATION OF THIS REPORT. TURN PAGE.

KEEP MARGINAL SPACE AT RIGHT FOR BINDING)

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1958 1958 486513

NW 55923

DocId: 32245128 Page

66

---

