# docid-32297109

## Page 1

---

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10218-10385

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-167

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

01/22/1965

'PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, OBA, PRESS CONFERENCE, ASSOC, ALLEGED RAID,

BOMBING, NIAGARA SUGAR MILL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF USAF

COMMENTS:

REFERRAL TO USAF, INC LHM

DOCId: 32297109

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

FD-38 (Rex, 1029-67) a

SECP

FBI

Transmit the following in.

Via

AIRTEL

Date: /

PLAINTEXT

(Type: ini plain texe or code)

REGISTERED

(Priority)

1/22/65

ATTON CONTAINED

ONSIAOSIFIED

ALE INFOSS

HORSIN IS

MACBETT

ANHERMIS

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: SAC, MIAMI

(97 - 4474)

(105-2855)

(₽)

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL

DE RECUPERACION. REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA;

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

2626/9854

ЧАС GATKJK)

Classified by.

оливотьсй

Declassify.on: AiR 7/4/35

ReButel, 1/18/65, to Miami; Miami teletype,

1/20/65, to Bureau; Miami airtel 1/19/65, to Bureau.

Enclosed herewith are 12 copies of letterhead

memorandum dated and captioned as above.

Copy of letterhead menorandum is being furnished

to the following local agencies:

ONI, OSI, G-2, Coordinators

Custons, Miami,

Coat, Border patrol, 16, A »i

CIA,

Coast Guard,

region Il, Miami, Customs, Key

MM T-I is MM 492-8.

CIA HAS NO OBIECTION 70

DECLASCIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF GIA INFORMATION

IN, THIS DOGUMENT.JM

10-6-97

MM T-3 IS EVELIO' ALPIZAR PEREZ,

Key Source -

Cuba.

MM T-4

DECLASSIFED 8:5668 SUMER

MM T-5

™ 635

CIAL

111

1-1-9715

3 bureau (Enc.

- Miami

-.

134-44)

GED/ neb

(7)

9-1706}

ATA, Custars,

92-4+77-

ME JAN 2 1968

16 7

Copy to: CiA, State

ONVOSVACSI

dischracon

FEB

mtt

sed:

01965 Specjal Agent in Charge

SEEN

SEX

SIDE

Per.

-=

OLAS

LACE ON

TRICATION

DocId: 32297109 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ISEO

NEA

ми 105-2855

9Д 1/18/65

LA INFO (PI) RAMA SS CLASTIFIE

9803:rold 8014 241.326-3/27/92

CIA advised they had no interest

The M1am1

office 1s of the opinion that BOSCH'e

claim is a complete fabrication, and that the Cuban

Government issued a false confirmation of this fabrication

1n order to take, advantage of the publicity for propaganda

purposes.

it is to be recalled that Ml 1-2 had been

propositioned by BOSCh to pilot a plane on a rald which was W

supposed to have been in the

planning stage. BOSCH has

not revived this plan and it appears that the publielty

he has received concerning the alleged 1/17/65 said has

served his purpose in laying the groundwork for collection

of additional contributions.

It 1a to be noted that BOSCH 1s one of the

principal subjects in the case entitled,

"ORLANDO BOSCH

AVILA

EXTORTION,

aKa.1 SI AL, DULLO GIBAR JOLISIAS; ET AN, VICTIHS -

(But11e 9-42758), which 18 presently under

active investigation. That case clearly reflects that

BOSCH 1s capable of unlimited deception, cunningness,

intrigue, and violence.

LEAD

MIAMI :

#ill continue to investigate the activities of

the HIRR.

This menorandum 18. claasified. SECRET In vlow

of Infornation fürnished by It. COl. ROBERT A. HARTER

hich was so classified. i

AIRFORCE INFO (LASP)

UNCLASSIFIED PER THEIR

0/13/90 TR

SECRET

2.

518-10382

DocId: 32297109 Page 3

---

## Page 4

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

Filo No.

MH 105-2855

ALI, INFORIATION CONTAIVEL

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEB

EXCEPT WHERE SAUNA

OTHERWISE

Miami, Florida

January 22, 1965

SECRET

2626/255p8 MAC GATTA

lassified boy Mult, le dourelon be

Declassity on: OADR Flu/ss

Re :

HOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONAATAAS NO OBLECTION TO

(MIRR)

DECLASSIFICATICN ANC/OR,

INTERNAL, SECURITY - CUBA; RELEASE UF CLA INFUSCRATRON

KUrRAYIT? MATTERS

" I Kit has baer praytously reported that the wlin

Vil, Cuban medical doctor extied 2D lISA

at. mlani,

announced that a bombing raid was conducted against/ 1-1-97

Cuba on January 11, 1965..

On January 19, 1965, MH Tol, a former Cuban official,

residing In Miant, who monitors many Cuban radio broadcasts,

reported as follows:

station CHQ broadcast an announcement

Ministry of the Armed Forcos of Cuba:

deseribed as having

On Sunday, January 17, 1985, Int or Aerica,

a' plane

been manufactured

type similar to the B-26, dropped a boub; approximately 250.

pounds, in the Province of Pinar del R1o, Cuba.

This plane,

wich came fron the worth, dropped the bonb, which exploded

In the yard of a house owned by DOMINO PRATSABANOS.

• "This"

house 1s located on the la Glorlosa Farm, 86 kilometers fron

Bahia Honda en route to Palms,

the municipality of Consolacior

del Horte, Pinar del Rio, The broadenst announced that this

explosion occurred nore than 13 kiloneters fron the Sugar

Central Niagara.

airplane apparently returned to its base.

'The' CHl broadcast continued that according to

Information of the united Press and AsSOCIAted, TASE,

the

attack-was made by a plane of one of the counterrevolutlónar

organizations-(not further identified):

This broadcast concluded

with the announcement that the Governnent of Cuba of FIDEL CASTRO

" denounces once more these acts which have been wade with the

acquiescence of

the united states Government, which Governuent

continues to pay no attention to the accepted code of

Inte

inational rights.

SECRET

Time

SIDE

CLASS

FICATION

"TION

no doragrad-

1ng-a0d toolanstfloation

ENCLOSURE

+7-414-34-667

DocId: 32297109

Page 1

---

## Page 5

Re? MIRR

SECRET

BOSCH conmented that the United States Department

of State denled the raid took place,

but that the Cuban

BOSCH confided that he would leave Miami on

January 31

wurvelllanc®j965, for New York City, for two days, and would

then travel to San Juan, Puerto Rico. He explained that

the purpose of this trip was to raise money upon the

of the preas publietty recalved about the raid. ffs(4)

MN To? expressed the opinion, after hearing BOSCH's

explanatios, that it is highly unlikely that any such raid

took place,

or that BOSCH could have obtained the services

of a plane and pilot on such short notice. (A)U)

in T-2 also pointed out that an Aero Commandor does not

and that the windows do not open, since they

are of the "balit-in" type. Consequently, the bomb could not

save been thrown out of the window as alleged by BOsCH. (lU

in is noted that bosch was very non-specifie,

spoke in

general terms; and gave no details which were susceptible to

being checked, with the exception of his clain concerning bombe

having been throwa out of the window of the fero Commander. (4XU)

it T=2 said that BOSCH nade no secret of the fact

that his purpose in making this annoucement was to enable him

to collect more contributions fron sympsthetic Cuban exiles.

¡osci appeared to be 1n a joyful mood, and anticipatea tha

his collectlons would be considerable. (EXU

Lleutenant Colonel ROBERT A:

sonad control Center

•y nest, Florida, advided that radar tracks for Pinar del Ri

for the period

January 17, 1965, reflected no traffie whatsoever. (5(5)

on January 20, 1965, lill 1o3, a Cuban exile who

been closely associated

with various menbers of BOSCH's

kas

organization, advised that he possessed no confirnation that

Busch's publicised raid had actually taken place.

ATR FORCE UFO (BRING) DEMBAS

3.

• CLASSIFIED UNHILE UNBRACKETED

SECRET

PORTIoN

IS DELLAGSIFIED

586858:602 *24,326 5190

DocId: 32297109

Page

---

## Page 6

Ro: MIRR

SECRET

on January 20, 1965, un T-d, who 1a acquainted

with some of fosa.'s associates, reported that on vacuary 1ò,

son of the former owner of the

1965, WILLIANA TIl disclosed that at about 3:00 p.m.

on January 18, 1965, he had been requented to come to the

HIRR headquarters,

There

he was told that his

father's

sugar mill had just been bombed by the MIRR.

Ml Tod commented on the January 19, 1965, confiras-

tion by the Cuban Government of the raid.

He expressed the

opinion that FIDEL CASTRO most l1kely 1ssued a false

confirmation in order to take advantage of BOScH's public

announcenent for the purpose of embarrassing the United States

Government.

had been

unable to verify that any B-26 plames (as alleged in BOSCH's

public announcement) had made any flights frow the South

took place.

1965, Mx. PAY LINEHAN, Supervising

such raid as

alleged by BOSCH had actually taken place.

advised that It

the cuban Government.

841.926.9/27/92

It is to be noted that

•1964, BOSCH

held a press conference in Hand, at which time

on lovember 30%ne announced

another bombing raid over Cuba.

On that occasion, no confirma-

tion was ever received, and well informed sources

expressed

the opinion that his announcement was a fabrication.

PROPERTY OF FBI • This document contains neither

rocommendations nor conclusions of the fBI.

It 1s the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it'änd ita ountenta

are not to be distributed outalde your agency.

DocId: 32297109

Page 6

---

## Page 7

'SECO

1/22/65

AIRTEL.

PLAINTEX!

REGISTERED

AUL, INTORUATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS JACiASSIFIED

TERE SBOWN

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: SAO, MIAMI

897-4474)

(105-2865) (P)

HOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL,

2/2619 508 MAC SAT OF

Declassify on: PADR 1/16/85

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONABIA (HIBB)

INTERNAL, SECURITY - CUBA;

NEUTRALITY HATFERS

ReButel, 1/18/85, to Wlant, Hiant teletype,

1/20/65, to Bureau; Mant altel 1/79/85, to Bureau.

Enclosed herewith are 12 coples of letterhead

menorandum dated and captioned as above.

Copy of letterhead nemorandun 18 being furnished

Coordinator

Customs, Wlans,

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION. TO

MM T-] 15 HI

492-8.

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INZORMATION

MN T-2 16 1

839-8.704 KUL)

IN THIS DOCUMENT.IM

IN T-S 16 EVELIO ALPIZAR PERSE, HeY SOUrCe -10 6 97

Cuba.

NA T-4 15 MM 688-8.

DECLASSIFIED BY 5.60% SUD/KS

Bureau (Eno.

Miam!

18) (RM)

134-A4):

41.00

134-250106(4)

9-1706)

E'Q°# 15Y

GIAIT VOD

EVERSE

SIDE

THOR;

СТАЯ

ACT

SUFICATION

SECRET

918-10382

DocId: 32297109

Page

7

---

## Page 8

'SEC

MM 105-2855

On 1/18/65, CIA advised they had no interest

in this alleged raid

and had received no

up to that time. Com

"is of the opinion that BOSCH's

claim is a complete fabrication, and that the Cuban

Government issued a false confirmation of this fabrication

in order to take advantage of the publicity for propaganda

purposes.

It is to be recalled that id I-s had been

propositioned by BOSCH to pilot a plane on a raid which waslu

supposed to have been in the planning stage.

BOSCH has

not revived this plan, and it appears that the publicity

he has received concerning the alleged 1/17/65 raid has

served his purpose in laying the groundwork, for collection

of additional contributions.

It is to be noted that BOSCH is one of the

principal subjects in the case entitled,

"ORLANDO BOSCH

active investigation.

That case clearly reflects that

BOSCH is capable of unlimited deception, cunningness,

intrigue, and violence.

LEAD

MIAMI:

Will continue to investigate the activities of

the MIRR.

This memorandum is classified SECRET in view

of information furnished by lit. Col. ROBEST A. HARTER,

which was so classified. (H)

AIR FORCE INFO LATTE

UNCLASSIFIED PER 11/13/90

LTR:

SP6BSA/GCL-241,326.412/5/50

SECRET 39 38 2.

- 918-10382

DocId: 32297109 Page 8

---

## Page 9

UNITE STATES DEPARTMENT OF STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Plose Refer t0

File No.

ИН 105-2855

Mlant,

Florida

January 22, 1965

SECRET

2/2485 SOB MACGAT(JAY)

Classified by multiple mena Bitice

Declassify on: DADR 9/k/85

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Re:

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARTA HAS NO ORJECTION TO

(MIRR)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA;

DECLASSIF CATION AND/OR,

NSUTRALITY MATTERS

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.JM

It has been prevlously reported that the MIRR

10-6-97

headed by ORLANDO BOSCE AVILA, Cuban medical doctor extiod

at wlant, atmounced that a bombing rald was conducted against

сира од Januar 17, 1965.

residing in Miani, who monitors nany Cuban radlo, broadcasts,

reported as. follows:

At 6:00 a.m. On January l9, 1965, lavana radic

station cid broadcast an announcement received fron the

Ministry of the Armed Forces of Cuba:

described as having

& plane

of' a

type similar to the B-26, droppod a bomb; cuba. mately 250.

pounds, 1n the Province of Pinar del Rio,

This plane,

which cane from the North, dropped the bomb, which exploded

In the yard of & house owned by DOMINGO PRATS BANOS:

This

house is located on the la Gloriosa Farm, 86 AllOmetere fIOn

bana honda en route to Palaa, the minielpality of Consolacion

del Horte, Pinar del Rio. The broadeast announced that this

explosion

Central Niagara.. The

occurred nore than 13 kiloneters fron the Sugar

airplane apparently retursed to 1ts base.

The CHQ broadcast continued that according tò

Information of the UnIted tress and ABBOCIAted, FIeS8, The

attaci was made by a plane of one of the counterrevolutionary

organizations (not further identifted).

wilth the announcement that the Governnent of Cuba of FIDEL CASTRO

denounces once nore these acts which have been nade with the

the united states Governnent, which Government

continues to pay no attention to the accepted code of

'International rights.

BECK 55

SEE REVERSE E

STOLETOF

ron automa

dowagrad

1ootasn1ftcatton

CLAP&IFICATION

ACTION

DocId: 32297109

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Re: MIRR

SECRET

BOSCH conmented that the United States Departuent

of state denied the raid took place, but that the Cuban

Governnent had subsequently confirmed it, ana as a resull

the united states Government had placed BOSCH under constant

surveillance.

BOsCH confided that he would leave Miani on

January 21

1965, for New York City, for two days, and would

then travel to San Juan, Puerto Rico. He explained that

MH T»? expressed the opinion, after hearing BOSCH'&

explanation, that it 1s highly unlikely that any such raid

toos place, or that BoscH could have obtained the services

of a plane and pilot on such short notice.(f )(UL)

Hi To& also pointod out that an Aero Commandor does not

have a bomb bay.

and that the windows do not open, since they

are of the "built-in" type.

Consequently, the bonb could not

have been throom out of the window as slieged by Bosch. Ca ly

l 1-2 noted that bosed was very non-specific,

spoke in

general terms; and gave no details which were susceptible to

being checked, with the exception of his claim concerning bombs

marias bees throw out of the rindor of the dero commender (tu)

HI T.2 said that BOSCH made no secret of the fact

that his purpose In making this announcement ias to enable him

to collect more contributions fron sympathetic Cuban exiles.

Bosei appeared to be in a joyful mood, and anticipated that

his collections would ba considerable(* XU)

(On January 20, 1966| Troitenant Colonel ROBERT A:

HARTER, Assistant Operations Officer,

for the period from 4:00 - 8:00 &im.

On Januar 20, 1965, нк Т-3,

been closely associated with

a cuban exile who bas

various members of BOSCH's

AAR FORCE INFO (BR. P6) REMANS

• CLASSIFIED WHILE UNBRACKERD

PORTION IS DECLASSIFIED.

SPG-BJA/GOL-211, 126-12/5190

3

SECRET

DocId: 32297109

Page 10

---

## Page 11

Re: MIRR

SECRET

sugar mill had just been bonbed by the MIRR.

IN Tod commented on the January 19, 1965, confirma-

tion by the Cuban Government of the raid.

Hie expressed the

opinion that FIDEL CASTRO nost Ilkely issued & false

confirmation in order to take advantage of BOSCH's public

annourcenent for the purpose of embarrassing the united States

Government.

States Custons, Manl, Florida, advised hid agency

wable to verify that any B-16'

planes (as alleged in BOSCH's

public announcement) had made any flights fron the South

Florida area during the pertiment period of time, and Custome

had been unable to obtain any confirmation that the raid actually

took place.

On January 21, 1965, Mr. FAY LINKHAN, Supervising

Inspector, Federal Aviation Administration, advised that hie

agency had been unable to confirm that any such raid as

alleged by BOSCH had actually taken place.

On January 21, 1965, MN T=S,

a federal agency

which conducts intelligence investigations, advised that It

had received no information in confirnation that such & raid

nad taken place, except the public announcementiot BOBCH an

it is to be noted that on November 20, 1964, BOSCE

held & press conference in Hiani, at which time

he announced

another bombing raid over Cuba.

On that occasios, no confirma-

thon was over recelved, and well-inforned sources expressed

the opinion that his announcement vas a fabricatlon.

PROPERTY OF FBI - This document contains neither

reconmendations nor conclusions of the FBI:

It is the property

of the FBI and 1e loaned to your agency, it and ita entents

are not to be distributed outater your ageacy.

DocId: 32297109

Page 11

---

