# docid-32289087

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10200-10363

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-165503-5

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG. MX

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/19/1967

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT:

FS, ASSOC, CONSPR, BOMB, CUBAN SHIP, ACA, IDENT, FIORINI, ARTHUR R.

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

03/16/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC TTY, S/S

DocId: 32289087

Page

---

## Page 2

DECIASSLYTRD FY_

ON

Conti

antial

SECRET 4/20/67

CODE

166-9-83

Woo pausse

no Kisseed

LOVO

No pays

SEORET

TELETYPE

TO:

URGENT

1 - Mr. Nasca

SENT BY CODED TELETYPE

A INPOSMAZION CONTAINZO :

NOREAN TO UNCRASSTPIED EXCAP

THE ANORN ORMERTTGE.

SACE, SAN ANTONIO

BOSTON

TX 200

REC 51

5

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

UNKNOWN SUBJECTS: REPORTED PLANS TO BLOW UP CUBAN SHIP

AT MEXICAN PORT, POSSIBLY, VERACRUZ; IS - CUBA; N™ - CUBA.

RENTEL APRIL TWELVE, LAST.

ON APRIL NINETEEN, LAST, LEGAT, MEXICO LEARNED ONE

ARTHUR R. FIORINI ACCOMPANIED BY WIFE MARIA LOUISA FIORINT

ENTERED MEXICO AT REYNOSA, TAMAULIPAS, ON APRIL THIRTEEN,

LAST. FIORINIS TRAVELLING IN CESSNA PLANE MODEL THREE EIGHT

FIVE - CP AND WERE ACCOMPANIED BY SEVERAL OTHER LIGIT PLANES

IN GROUP KNOWN AS TENTE ANNUAL AIR CRUISE TO MEXICO • THEY:

SPENT FIRST NIGHT AT SAN LUIS POTOSI, MEXICO, AND ARE NOW AT

MANZANILLO, COLIMA. FIORINI GAVE HIS ADDRESS ON ENTERING

MASSACHUBSTES (298 B)

Mexico City

Miami

VIA TELETYPE

APR20 1967

240P

IMA

ENCIPYERED

Tolson

DeLoach

_I foreiga Llaison Unit,

Mohr

Wick

Casper

VHN: js

CLASSIFIED AND

Callahan

(6)

EXTENDED BY

Contad

REASON KOG

Felt

Gale

FCIM, 11, 1

Hosen

DATE OF RE

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

MAY 2 * 196 PECLASSIFICATIO

Holmes -

Gandy -

MAIL ROOM

ELETYPE UNIT

3113/29

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

CRERWELNET

Conf saint lal

DocId: 32289087

Page 2

INFORMADION

CONTAINED

ASSIFIED

---

## Page 3

TEN CONTAINED

Bastar

2v., 1927-661

DECODEDI

Coni

COPY

J AIRGRAM

XXX CABLEGRAM

RADIO

TELETYPE

Tolson

De Loach

MohI —

Wick

Casper

Callahan

Conrad -

Felt

Gale _

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter.

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

STATE 10

natura

TUCLASSIFIED

SHOWN

Sa

URGENT 4619-67

lasa

TO DIRECTOR

7/29/831

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY

NO o

207

CLASSIFIED AND

REASON FO

CONF

INTIAL

FCIM, 11, X-

DATE OF REV

FLA

DECLASSIFICATION.

CONCIES

(REPROPRIATE

ICES

4/19/01 AND TIRED

UNKNOWN SUBJECTS; REPORTED PLANS TO BLOW UP

CUBAN

SHIP AT MEXICAN

PORT, POSSIBLY VERACRUZ.

IS - CUBA.

Classified by.

EXCH

OTI

ON APRIL 19 INSTANT A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE ABROAD ADVISED JES

IT HAD BEEN DETERMINED THAT ONE ARTHUR R. FIORINI, ACCOMPANIED

BY HIS WIFE, MARIA LOUISA FIORINI, ENTERED MEXICO AT REYNOSA,

TAMAULIPAS, ON APRIL 13 LAST. THEY WERE TRAVELING IN A CESSNA

AIRPLANE, MODEL 385-CP AND WERE ACCOMPANIED BY SEVERAL OTHER

LIGHT PLANES IN A GROUP KNOWN AS THE TENTH ANNUAL AIR CRUISE

TO MEXICO. THEY SPENT THE FIRST NIGHT

05 1653

FIORINI GAVE HIS ADDRESS UPON ENTERING MEXICO

AS APR 24 1967

COMMERCIAL STREET, EAST BRAINTREE, MASSACHUSETTS

Let't st

APPROPRYANE ACENCY

1-1176X

AND FIELD OTICES

ADVISED BY RUSH

(= 19 077

SLIP (5) OF DA

Classified by

Exempt from dies

40

Eategory.

ente of Declassication, Indefto

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminate you side The Buru, Missest that in be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic system

Cone dential SECRET

DocId: 32289087 Page 3

---

## Page 4

neve

30938

• AIRGRAM

SECRET

DECODED COPY

xx CABLEGRAM

RADIO

TELETYPE

Tolson

DeLoach -

Mohr —

Wick

Casper

Callahan .

Conrad

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel. -

Trotter .

Tele. Room

Holmes.

Gandy =

PAGE 2 FROM LE GAT MEXICO CITY NO. 207:

ACCORDING TO THE SOURCE, A CUBAN SHIP ARRIVED AT THE PORT

OF VERACRUZ ON APRIL 19 INSTANT AND... IS CURRENTLY UNDER HEAVY

SURVEILLANCE BY MEXICAN SECURITY AUTHORITIES. (S

ADMINISTRATIVE:

RE MEX CAB APRIL 13 LAST.

SOURCE IS FERNANDO GUTIERREZ BARRIOS, DIRECTOR, FEDERAL

SECURITY POLICE. HE STATED THAT THIS OFFICE WOULD BE KEPT

ADVISED OF ALL DEVELOPMENTS. PHOTOGRAPHS OF FRANK FIORINI

RECEIVED FROM MIAMI HAVE BEEN FURNISHED TO GUTIERREZ FOR

INVESTIGATION OF ARTHUR FIORINI TO DETERMINE IF THEY MAY BE

IDENTICAL. (SC

BUREAU REQUESTED TO HAVE SAN ANTONIO INVESTIGATE ENTRY OF

ARTHUR FIORINI AT. MC ALLEN, TEXAS. BOSTON SHOULD ATTEMPT TO

DETERMINE IF THERE IS AN ARTHUR R. FIORINI AT BRAINTREE,

MASSACHUSETTS. IT IS NOTED SUSPECT FRANK FIORINI IS A PILOT.

(и)

3RD CC: MR. BRENNAN

RECEIVED: = 11:20 PM JRL

Conf»

antial

If the intelligence

contained in the

above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order ta protect the Bureau's cryptographic sECRET

105-165503-5

DocId: 32289087 Page 4

---

