# docid-32261937

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/2/201

AGENCY :

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER:

180-10107-10006

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 012727

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

HSCA

Document Information

ATZENHOFFER, ANTHONY WILLIAM

DATE: 10/16/1978

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

ATZENHOFFER, ANTHONY W. JR., STATEMENTS,

INTERVIEWS

FERRIE, DAVID

VOEBEL, ED

SHAW, CLAY

TULANE UNIVERSITY

OSWALD, LEE, PRE-RUSSIAN PERIOD, ASSOCIATES AND

RELATIVES

DOCUMENT TYPE: OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Open in Full

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

, DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/01/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Box 225.

v9.1

NW 55923

DocId: 32261937

Page 1

---

## Page 2

oranan

Investigation Interview Schedule

Identifying Information

Name.

Anthony William Atzenhoffer Jr.

740 Goodson Dr.

Gretna, La.

Dof B 4-20-39

Soc Sec.

JFK Act 6 (3)

Phone 504-393-6899

Height 5'9"

Weight 175

Caucasian

Green eyes

10-16-78

brown hair

Employment.

Tony's Aurora Gulf Service Station

4933 General Meyer Ave.

Algiers (new Orleans), La. 394-9189

Remarks. Remembers Lee Oswald's name on his roll call and

remembers him vaguely at Moisant meetings. lony

was platoon Sgt.

Civil Air Patrol Cadets.

Investigator

Robert Buras

10-16-78

1919

33923

Docid: 32261937

Page 2

---

## Page 3

KENNEDY

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

DATE 10-16-78

TIME, 3.PM

I..

Identifying Information:

504-393-6899

Name

Anthony William Atzenhoffer, Jrelephone_

Address

740. Goodson Dr.

New Orleans (Algiers), La.

Type of Contact:

Telephone

I Person

II.

Summary of contact:

Investigator Robert Buras met Mr. Atzenhoffer at his service

station and learned that he had joined the Civil Ari Patrol

Cadets ,Moisant Souadron in Sept. 1954 and left 1957. He

was a platoon Sgt. and used to call the roll and remembered

Oswald's name being. on the roll. He has no recollection of

ever training with him or speaking with him, and remembers

him being a quiet guy. When he saw Oswald on TV in 1963 he

didn't recognize him but on one of the newscasts he saw Ed

Voebel talking about him (LHO). He remembered Voebel as the

man that Oswald was close too and stayed with at the meetings..

Atzenhoffer only knew Voebel from CAPC, not socially.

Ferrie did come to Moisant Squadron and teach some courses

and Atzenhoffer took his first plane flight with Ferrie.

He

con't

III:

Recommended Follow-up (if any) :

None. He doesn't have any photos or records that might help.

Signature:

NW 55923 Docid: 32261937

Robert 3 urar

Page.

• FOrm #5

---

## Page 4

...4

Page two of interview with Anthony Atzenfoffer

never got to know Ferrie very well.

He went to one social

party that was given at either Ferrie's house or Col. Jin

Salmon (James Salmon was killed in a plane accident 10-15-78).

the party was all guys and when they

started drinking he leit.

He was about 16 and his father didin't allow him to drink.

Salmon and

some others were seniors and Atzenhoffer didn't

get to know them. He remembers that ferrie flew at blue

Stinson that he kept at Moisant Airport,

(Now New Orleans

International and they don't allow private planes there any

more).

Ferrie never indicated that he was homosexual in any way.

The only thing that he can remember that was not of CAPC was

Ferrie wanting the kids to participate in some kind of ex-

periment for Tulane University. They didn't do it.

Atzenhoffer was shown the photo book and related the

following:

#5. Clay Shaw knew from newspapers.

#27. Looked familiar but name didn't mean anything.

#62. Melvin "Pinky" Seeling.

Knew from either CAPC or other

friends.

He remembers that Seeling's father owned a

large dairy farm in Kenner, La. Last saw him a few years

ago.

Seeling

is in the Air Force and is stationed in

Corpus Christi, Texas.

Garrion's men showed him a mug

shot of Seeling and he was suprised to learn that he

had been arrested.

A check of New Orleans PD files indicate that he was

arrested on August 30, 1961 and booked with Vagrancy,

Investigation of Burglary and Hold for the f•D.1.

under item number H-13903-61..

His date of birth is

given as 8-1-37.

The report will have to be ordered

from microfilm

section.

Subject not identified in photo book except by last

name.

End 0f

memo

NW 55923

DocId:32261937

Page 4

---

