# docid-32334035

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/2/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90110-10028

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 92-4192-32

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NU 56792 Date: 04-11-2018

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/01/1963

20

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

MAX EDER

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

RPT

V9.1

HH 56792 DocId: 32334035

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 92-467

by MEROLA and his associates to collect the demanded

money.

The Bureau was advised that others

reportedly

approached by MEROiA to participate

AL SEID,

aka ALKROSS, "The Chinaman,in the activity were

?, who is the reputed

gunman of the MANNARINO group of New Kinsington, Pennsylvania,

as well as MIKE SWIATEK of Chicago, who is known to have

participated in an armed robbery set up by MEROLA in the

Miami area.

As the Bureau was advised, information has been

received to the effect both CATENA and EDER are being

advised of this contemplated action taken against them.

The source of this information, CHESTER GRAY

(former MM 722-C) related the above is known to only three

or four individuals other than himself and any utilization

or dissemination of this information would without question

seriously jeopardize his personal safety and even his life.

As the Bureau is aware, MEROLA and GRAY have been close

associates for many years and have been jointly involved in

illegal activity in the past.

As the Bureau is also aware,

MEROLA is a close associate and has furnished information to

the Departmental Attorney, WILLIAM KENNEY, in Miami.

INFORMANTS

MM T-] is MM 725-C.

MM T-2 is MM 814-C.

MM T-3 1S MM 822-C.

MM T-4 1s MM 830-C.

MM T-5 1s MM 730-C.

MM T-6 Is MM 698-C.

C

COVER PAGE

HW 56792

DooId: 32334035

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-467

MM I-7 is MM 509-C - TE.

MM T-8 is RICHARD JAFFE,

Special Agent, Internal

Revenue Service.

MM T-9 is

PCI.

JFK Act

6

(4)

D.*

COVER

PAGE

HH 56792

DocId: 32334035

Page 3

---

