# docid-32306915

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10291-10055

HQ

92-3267-691

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DODGE, HAROLD F.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/26/1965

PAGES:

65

SUBJECTS :

JRO, RES, ASSOC, JCEX, B/F INT, TELCAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 3, INDEX PAGESa-d

v9.1

DocId: 32306915

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LA 92-113

ADMINISTRATIVE

Informasion not su: belor which was furnished by

LA 4448-C-IF, LA 4335-0-IP, In 4367-C-T1.

and LA 1412-0-19,

who are sensitive sources,

and information curnisind by them

should not be raported in

the details of a reperi.

curing the period trom area, 1964, to Aprit, 1965.

LA 4448-0-T6 turnished info mation that JOiN ROSSEILI,

resides most of the tine in

the Ins Angeles area, is a menber

of the Chicago

, "Brigad" of je cosa Nostra (TON).

Source

advised that ROSS&Ll is one of the

but belongs to the Chicuto "Brugaa "fanking menders of lon

on the West Coast and handles interests of the Chicago "Erugau"

in Las Vegas, Nevarla.

On March 4, 1964, this source advised shat RUSSROt

is one of the most rowerful and influsntial men in ICN. Fie

is considered one of the sharpeat and most intelligent men

in this organization. He is highiy respected and fraquently

consulted relative to and handles matters of highest innortaner

and greatest delicacy.

He was a merider of the Los Angeles

"Brugad" but later transferred to the Chicago "Brugad.

FRANK BOMPENSIERO waS the

On February 10% capo

1205, IA 4410-c.11 advised that

Regime" in charge of the san

Diego group of ICN some years ago.

when he wes

sentenced to

state prison in about 1955, he was succeeaee ah chas Boat oy

December, 1958. This post is no ela by toss aero.

this pose until his reach in

December, 1958.

Solice

advised that BOMPENSIHRO is presently a "soldier in to? fan

Diego "Capo Regima."

In August 11, 1965, LA 4443-C-TE advised that on the

night of August 6, 1965, informani had dinner vich fRAN

BOMPENSIERO. During the course of the corversetion, iniormant

inquired as

to BOMPENSIERO's present source of incore.

this point, BOMPENSIERO told informant thâi "

ACON (ROSSELLI)

takes care

of me."

He also mentioned in thai connociion that

he (BOMPENSIERO) sees ROSSELLI every couple of weeks.

BOMPENSIERO did not furnish further specifics in this

regard

nor did he discuss the nature or extent of ROSSELl's

help.

_B .

COVER PAGE

DocId:32306915

Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 92-113

"Capo" in the Chicago "Brugad." According to informant,

LA PORTE and ROSSELLI are very good friends.

Informant also

recalled that IA PORTE is a close friend of FRANK SCIPELl.

"belongs

RAYMOND PATRIARCA.

On August 14, 1965, informant advised that he had

been to dinner with FRANK EOMPENSIERO and his paranour, MARIA

GAVIN, the night of August 13, 1965. On this occasion,

BOMPENSIERO again made reference to making periodic cr

occasional

trips to the Chicago, Illinois, area.

BOMPENSIERO also told

informant thai he continies to meet regularly with JOHN

ROSSELLI. In that connection, POMDENSIERO told informant that

ROSSETTE T

he had been to Los Angeles on Monday (August 9, 1965) and had

met with JOHN ROSSELII on Imperial Highway. BOMFENSTERO did

not furnish further specifies.

On the night of September 9, 1965, incormant

telephonically advised that he had been in contact with

BOMPENSIERO on September 9, 1965.

Informant invited BOMPHNSIORO

to accompany him to Del Mar Race

Track on Septamber 10, 1965,

and then have dinner at informant's residence in Dei Mar on

the night of September 10, 1965.

BOMPENSIERO told informant

San Diego during the day on

September 10, 1965, but if these plans did noü materialize,

then he would accompany informant to Del Mar.

also stated that, in any event, he would be back in San Diego.

by evening and would definitely plan on having dinner with

informant at Del Mar the evening of September 10, 1965.

BOMPENSIERO told informant that he would phone him the mining

of September 10, 1965,

the day of September

10 10, 19500

relative to his availability auring

On the morning of September 10, 1965, informanc

telephonically advised that BOMPENSIERO had phored him at

10:00 AM, September 10, 1965. BOMPENSIERO told informans

that he had to leave San Diego on September 10, 1965, in

connection with certain other matters that had

could not accompany informant to Del Mar Race Track en this

date.

BOMPENSIERO indicated that he would be back by Friday

evening, september 10, 1905, and woula plan on having dinne

with informant at about 7:30 PM, September 10, 1905, at

informant's residence in Del Mar, California.

-D

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306915 Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA 92-113

Informant stated on Septenber 10, 1965,

that

BOMPENSIERO had mentioned that he had to meet JOIN POSSELIT

on Saturday, September 11, 1965.

BONFaassER? did not, furnisn

further specifics relative to this matter.

On septenber 18, 1300g

infoment belophonically.

advised that he had again had dinnet with thank SortSie and

MARIA GAVIN on the nigho of septenher Ii 1955.

occasion, BONPENSIPRO advised informant that earlier in the

day of September i1,

had met fORN HUSSETiE

Tone doora Perhy Festrurant in Bevarty

as hed driven to ins Angeles und

Hills, Calicomia.

COMPENSIERO also mentioned that he nau

September 11, 1965, instead.

Informant advised that on the morning of septencer i

1965, he met with FRANK BOMPENSIERD at the Nanara Inn at Del.

California.

BOMPENSIERO again mentioned to informari

that he definitely intends to us back" into flos suor

if he can get the approval of JOHN ROSSElL and FRANk DESIMONE

On September 11, 1965, IA 4412 C-TE furnisted

information that FRANK BOMPENSIERO

was coming to the Los Angelca

area to meet with "GIOVANNI."

On September 13, 1965, this informant advisel thai

BOMPENSIERO told him that

on september 1l, 1905: he POMPENS.1900

left his apartment in San Diego at about 10:15 IM and arrivel

at the Brown Derby Restaurant in Beverly Hills, California.

at 2:00 PM. He stated that

"JOHN" (ROSSELLI) was already

at the bar in this restaurant and without obvious recognition

they sat at the bar appearing to be watching the iootbail gomo

Source said that from the way BOMPENSIERO explainea

this meeting, he and JOHN conversed for approximately two hours

but in such a manner that no one else in the place would have

been aware that they were talking to each other. BOMPENSIERO

did not discuss in the presence of this informant the parpose

of his

meeting with JOHN ROSSELLI.

LA 4412-C-TE learned from BOMPENSIERO tnar, BOMPENSIN?!:

had been to the Brown Derby in Beverly Hills on lecaay,

September 7, 1965; that "JOHNNY" was there, but they felt ta".

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306915

Page 4

---

## Page 5

LA 92-113

there were two police officers there at the time so he,

BOMPENSIERO, had one drink and immediately

returned to

ROMPENSIERO mentioned to informant that he aces rict

Dieg "JOHN" at the sene location in Ids sneares every line

they meet.

1965, 144235-0-16

advised thar or santemper 22. 1903

Da VEROUE dOTES LE SEDIC DVING GENE taleRonically

contacted incornanr arcer informant had 16rt a message ar 500

Friars Club for Lan to Contact informant.

informent desired

to talk to wurk inasnuch as infomant was endeavoring to

locate someone unn could make a s2 million real estate ican

and he, informant, had been told that LINK had contacts with

who could finance such a loan. LINk was interested in

normant's proposition and agreed to meet with so neust

were trying to obtain the loan and the informont.

Informant, who is arquainted with on Rossels on

September 22, 1965,

telephonically contacter nooseid do ühe

Friars

Club, using as a reason

to caline bis prior conversa

tion with LINK.

He asked ROSSELLT to hate a cup of coffee

with him and that he wanted a favor.

Tie tolo ROSchull that

he was contacting him because he hau sarien to anocher member

of the Friars Club in regard to a business deal anú indicatea

to ROSSELLI that he wanted ROSSELLI's neiE in connection with

this other member.

Informant did not mention LINK's name to

ROSSELLI and ROSSELLI did not ask who the member was and

therefore source was of the opinion that LINK had talked to

ROSSELLI.

ROSSELLI told informant that it would not be wise

for him to be seen with informant at this time and suggested

source go downtown and talk to that fellow.

Informant said

that ROSSELLI was referring to LOUIS TOM DRAGNA.

(LOUIS ICH

DRAGNA, according to LA 4448-C-TE, is a member of ION and his

JACK I. DRAGNA, deceased, was head of the LOV for many

years in the Los Angeles area.) ROSSELLI told informant to

and discuss this matter with him, and

ROSSELLI would then call and direct "this man" the rigin way.

On September 23, 1965, LA 4335-C-TE advised that on

that date he had contacted LOUIS TOM DRAGNA.

Informant told

DRAGNA that someone had told him to contact

DRAGNA and DRAGNA

immediately asked who, whereupon informant said thai it was

JOHN ROSSELLI. Source told DRAGNA that he World like in took

-F

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306915

Page 5

---

## Page 6

LA 92-113

with him but if he cannot, he would want to work with RossELuI.

DRAGNA said "ROSSELUI has

everythings,

hasn't he?

If it's kig

enough,

ROSSElLI might be interested.

DrAGNA said he would

call ROSSELLI and mentioned that RossEust had not called him

in six months.

He told inforoant on cail hin the folloning

As of October 8: 100h

DRAGNA had not contacbed RoSSELLi.

that date, informani called FOSSaILI at the Friars Ol

and indicate

to RossELit that he wouls give nim 50 per cert

of his

"finder"s see" in connection with the jeal

entete ican,

Informant conleined to 30ssEane that DRAGNA said he is not

doing anyühing.

Rossured thea said that he is not dring any

thing and informans should go with DRAGNA.

ROSCALET said that

informant has been ciose to DRAGNe ir the past and they are

practically related and that is where intormant shoeld oa.

On Octoker 11, 1965,

informant was sg2.2 in coltart

with LOUIS TOM DRAGNA and DPAGNA said he did not want to help

informant and suggested that intormant go do ROSSELUT.

Informant told DRAGNA that he only wanted co male some money

and everywhere he goes, he is referesa to DRAGNA. DRAGiTA

replied that ROSSELLI has everything.

On October 14, 1965, LA 4367-C-IT advised that on

that date he had talked

operated in Santa Monica in 1964 by RICKY JACOBS and JACK

CALLIE (the pan operation was shut down by court action).

MELTZER also said ROSSELLI also had a piece of this operation

but had put no money into it..

He said that ROSSELLI is not

the boss in Los Angeles, but FRANK DESIMONE is the boss and tha

all ROSSELLI does is collect money for Chicago.

MELTZER said

DESIMONE can tell ROSSELLI to run errands.

MELTZER said ne

does not like ROSSELLI, whom he refers to as "the actor.

The identities of the individuals who furnished

information set out in this report which must not be disclosed

except upon issuance of a subpoena duces tecum are as follows:

- G-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306915 Page 6

---

## Page 7

LÀ 92-113

Union Bank, Sth and Hill Streets, Ics Angeles,

VICKI GUERRA, Staterent Department.

Gereral Telephone Company, Sirta Morica, California,

CSLA 4143-S.

Pacific Telephone Conpany, CSA 4178-S.

INFORMANTS

L41 1-6

LA I- 110

LA I-138

LA T-139

LA I-152

LA I-176

LA I-188

IA P-789

LA 1-191

IA 1-20?

IA 14129-?

BETSY DONCAN, "CE Angeles

Former

PUT.

OSIA 1208-C

CSLA 4268-0

LA 1-20?

LA 1-213

LA T-228

JOHIT ME DONALD, U, Sn. Post Office.

Beverly Hills

CSTA 4476-0

CSIA 4263-6

LA +367-C-0E

GEORGE HOPKINS. Nanager

Glen Towers Apartments

Los Angeles

IV 134-0

GEORCE HOPKINS, Manager

Gien Towers Apartments

Los Angeles

LOREN STIFFLER, DivisIon of

Corporations, State of Calitornia

Los Angeles,

california

- H -

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306915 Page 7

---

## Page 8

LA 92-113

INFORMANTS (concluded)

LA I-229

LA I -230

LA 1-231

LA 4367-C.TE

LA 4444-C

CSTA 4659. C

IHADS

LAS VEGAS

LOS ANGETES

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA: WIll condani consinuing

investigation concerning

ROSSELTTTE

ascivaties.

- I*-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306915 Page 8

---

