OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
* PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
Ri CLASSIFICATION :
: RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :
ae DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date, 5/11/201

Agency Information

FBI
124-90104-10198

HQ

92-2940-8

feleased under the John
. Kennedy
Bssassination Records
ollection Act of i992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#:NWU 56792 Date:
b-10-2018

Document Information

FBI

HQ

02/14/1958
6

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4; 11a)

Redact

01/21/1999

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

MEMO

vol
HW 56792 DocId:32332900

Page 1


| dll )
PG. aa-206 ie eatep

Will locate and°interview RODY RUTFENBUSH and: GEORGE "MOON"
MESSER, for any information ‘they! might supply regarding
the subject's racket connections, and ‘associations.

Will ‘determine at the Weatern Pennsylvania National Bank,

the’ purpose of LA Rocca! s loans ‘and Gar present indebtness.

wit: ontact JACK MAZZA, ‘at 206 Court Place, Pittsburg

for any, info he has of LA ROCCA's activity.

Will. contact informants ..for info they Hhave:as ‘to the
present whereabouts of. LA -ROCCA, his present racket
activities, and his’ purpose ‘at Binghamton’ on or about
November 14, 1957.

will at the INS review’ thé’ file of. JOSEPH : REAINO, aka:
Little Joe Ragno 'to determine if any yiolation ‘of falgely..
claiming citizenship exists, which might, be prosecuted.

will.
home:

equest Bureau

When LA ‘ROCCA ‘abpears in. the. ees area wall. attempt
discreet surveillances. ‘

Will review Pittsburgh file 87- 3694-4 for information, concerning

LA.ROCCA's visit. to Villa:Rose Motel, Hot Springs on. March »
16, 1957.

: AT WEST “MIFFLIN, “PA. (ALLEGHENY. ¢O co,)

“Will consider interview: of “FRANCES. PRIAM, 4310 vista‘ View;
for any info she, has regarding the subject: and her
association with' him.

Ga-29 90-8

horaty. for a maii® “eover of the subject's

56792 Docld:32332900 Page 2
