# docid-32298272

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/19/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10222-10048

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-1899

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

1O:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, NO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

04/11/1967

'PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEETING, LASTELLA RESTAURANT, ASSOC, SUR,

INTV, CM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC 2 INTV

v9.1

DocId: 32298272

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

PNAL FORM NO. 10.

$2 EDITION

GSA F'PMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GERNMENT

Memorandum

IRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 4/11/67

SAC,

NEW ORLEANS (92-365)

COSA NOSTRA

LA STELLA RESTAURANT MEETING

NEW YORK CITYNY

9/22/66,

002:020600236

AR

6

cott

Re Bureau airtel dated 4/4/67.

Enclosed for the Bureau 1s one copy each of 302's

On CARLOS MARCELLO and DI. WARREN HEBERT.

Enclosed for

New York are eight copies of the above 302's which may be

pertinent to this Investigation.

NO 1456-PC advised SA ROGER E, MAXWELL On

September

• 23, 1966, that CARIOS MARCELLO has no respect

TOr ANTHONY CAROLLA Or FRANK GAGLIANO. Informant could not

understand why these two naividuals would be in New York

C1ty with MARCELLO.

Informant believes that JOSEPH/MARCELLO,

of all the MARCELLO brothers, is closest to CARLOS MARCELLO.

Informant further stated that he believes that CARLOS MARCELLO

was ordered to New York as MARCELLo does not like New York city.

NO 1435-C-TE advised SA JACK EVANS MEHL on

September 27, 1966, that CARLOS MARCELLO has been joking

out item te to city. MARCELLO stated in the ms

presence of the informant that his reasons for going to

New York were strictly business and in connection with some ul

Of MARCELLO's legitimate business enterprises.

MARCELLO

stated just prior to his departure, he received an invitatión

from MICHELLEKMIRANDA Inviting CARLOS and JOSEPH MARCELLO to

a luncheon at the La Stella Restaurant.

MARCELLO further

stated that this was strictly a

only.

Wini REC 22

a upon or pleasure

NO 09040-TE advised SA

JOSEPH G.

November 21, 1966,L that JAME.

CAMPO,

LA

described as a prominent New

he Lethatpyas raisedhn New yorkted

purchasing ofothat RECILE

& hotel."

at he took eVents

remark, CAMPO was discussing CARLOS MARCELIQ'S September 2a,

1966 arrest in New-York Ci

2) - Bureau (Enc. a CLOSURE.

2 - New York (92-2300 Sub N). (Enc. 16)

18 APR 14 1967

2

- New Orleans

РАФ 11 191

Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

5010-108

DocId: 32298272

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-365

PJC: cmp

New Orleans PCI JOSEPH HEGEMAN advised

SA BENJAMIN Y. CANNY, San Juan Division, that he had

determined that the recent meeting of leading hoodlums

in New York was called because of a loan manipulation in

New Orleans Involving CARLOS MARCELLO and SANTO TRAFFICANTE:

Informant stated that the loan had been granted to one LOUIS.

• LA

ROUPIER, Who Ironts for CARLOS MARCELLO. MARCELLO bought

back into this deal for 60% of the loan plus a vendor's fet hi

of $04,000.00 to be paid to one WAYNE HAUSER.

Informant

stated that some of this money was to go to TRAFFICANTE and

TRAFFICANTE was not paid.

Informant believes the meeting

In New York was to straighten out these finances.

Informant

also stated that one SAMIRECILE, a real estate dealer in

New Orleans, had recently

gone bankrupt because MARCELIo had t

backed out of his operation.

• PCI HEGEMAN further stated that he believes that

all the juke boxes in the New Orleans area belong to SAM

GLANCANA of Chicago, Illino18, and that GIANCANA 1s extremely

angry at CARLOS MARCELLO beCaUse GIANCANA's count in this

venture is short.

NO 1457-C-TE furnished the following information

to SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR. and SA REED W. JENSEN on the

dates indicated:

On September 22, 1966, NO 1457-C-TE advised that

he cannot understand what CAROLLA and GAGLIANO were doing in

New York with CARLOS and JOSEPH MARCELLO. Informant stated

that CARLOS MARCELLO islikes both of these individuals.

Informant stated that for about twoweks previous

to this meeting, CARLOS MARCELLO had been very worried and

preoccupied.

MARCELLO had indicated that he was in some kind

of trouble with "important peade."

On October 31, 1966, NO 1457-C-TE advised that

CARLOS and JOSEPH MARCELLO visited SANTO TRAFFICANTE at his

Tampa, Florida, home in June, 1966. Informant

stated

-2 -

DocId: 32298272 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NO 92-365

PJC: emp

that he had heard that MARCELLO and TRAFFICANTE attempted

to settle their differences at this meeting.

Informant further advised that on the July 4,

weekend, SANTO TRAFFICANTE VisIted CARLOS MARCELLO 1n

New Orleans, Louisiana.

Informant stated that he understands

that MARCELLO and TRAFFICANTE held several lengthy conferences

during this weekend, however, nothing was settled between

MARCELIO and TRAFFICANTE.

Informant further stated that

TRAFFICANTE was very upset by CARLOS MARCELLO's attitude.

Informant advised that CARLOS MARCELLO has advised the

Informant that the real meeting took place in New York City

during the afternoon of September 21, 1966, and that the

luncheon at which he was arrested on September 22, 1966,

was just a social luncheon.

Informant believes from MARCELLO's attitude that

TRAFFICANTE placed him 1n a bad light with hoodlum figures

In New York City. Informant stated that he is not aware

of the reason for this problem of MARCELLO's.

NO 1457-C-TE on January 16, 1967, advised that

CARLOS MARCELLO,

JOSEPH MARCELLO and SANTO TRAFFICANTE had

been in telephonic contact with each other on January

13, 1967.

NO 1457-C-TE advised on January 30, 190%, that he

believes that SANTO TRAFFICANTE has been visiting CARLOS

MARCELLO In New Orleans for the past several days. Informant

stated that during the evening of January 28, 1967, CARLOS

MARCELLO and his wife took SANTO TRAFFICANTE to the

La Louisiane Restaurant for dinner. During the afternoon

of January 29, CARLOS MARCELLO held a private dinner party

at the Elmwood Plantation. In attendance at this dinner

party was JOSEPH MARCELLO:

Informant advised that he believes that the purpose

for this trip was for CARLOS MARCELLO and SANTO TRAFFICANTE

to examine a building somewhere In New Orleans.

-3-

DocId: 32298272 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NO 92-365

PJC: cmp

On January 26, 1967, NO 1457-C-TE advised that

SAM RECILE 1s a close friend

of

. JOSEPH and CARLOS MARCELLO.

Informant stated that in the past RECILE has borrowed large

somes of money from CARLOS MARCELLO.

Informant believes

that MARCELLO also in the past has arranged finances for

RECILE from somewhere in the Eastern United States.

on February 13, 1907, NO 1457-C-TE advised that

SANTO TRAFFICANTE waS 1n

New Orleans on February 12, 1967,

to visit CARIOS MARCELLO.

The above information 1s the only pertinent data

available to the New Orleans Informants.

For New York's reporting purposes, these informants

are characterized as follows:

NO 1456-PC, an individual with a wide acquaintanceship

with the criminal element in Louisiana.

NO 1435-C-TE, an Individual with a wide acquaintance-

ship with the criminal element in Louisiana.

NO 1390-C-TE, an individual who has a wide acquaint-

anceship among the criminal element.

PCI JOSEPH HEGEMAN, one'who has limited knowledge of

criminal activity in Louisiana.

NO 1457-C-TE, an individual with a wide acquaintance-.

ship among the organized criminal element in Louisiana.

New York may wish to incorporate in their report,

data contained in San Diego's airtel to the Director captioned

La Cosa Nostra; AR - CONSPIRACY, dated March 13, 1967, page 9.

New York also may wish to incorporate data contained

In Jour letter to New Orleans dated September 1, 1966, captioned

CARLOS MARCELLO, aKa AR.

-4-

DocId:32298272

Page 5

---

