# docid-32296855

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10218-10131

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

162-1606-6

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Notel •

Case#:NU 45748 Date: 04-06-2018

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/16/1967

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

DVC, RES, GAMBLING ACT, ASSOC, LST, ML, TRA, TOLL

RECORDS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/12/1997

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC MEMO

149 45748

DocId: 32296855

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

In 2"1211

SAC, Miami (162-446)

Director,

IBI

(162-1606) - 10

REC- 125

DINO VINCENT CELLINI, aka

6/23/67

ALL IATORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN* UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT YERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Re Miami letter 6/16/67.

Miami 1s authorized to obtain and review

toll records of telephone available to subject in

accordance with procedures set out in relet, provided

full security is assured.

NOTE: Subject is a professional gambleraand close associate

of Santo Trafficante, Jx., and Meyer Lansky. In early 1967

British authorities instructed

subject to arrange departure

from England. In addition to developing information

concerning subject's gambling activities, it is expectec

that review of

tol1 records will reveal information of value

concerning subject's association with Meyer Lansky.

such records will be obtained by Fedoral grand Jury subpoen feW

DSCLASSINED BY SS MACHEER

MALLER 2

JUN 2 3 1967

COMM Fal

JON: dsadloa

(4)

Tol85

Del.orch

Mohr

Wick

Creper

Callahan

Conrad

Fell.

Gule

Rosen

Sullivan

luvel

291

T'roller

Tele. Ro

Holmes

54 JUN 3 0 196

Candy

MAIL ROOM T

TELETYPE UNIT

REASON - FCIM VI

NOT DONE ENTIAL DATE OF REVIEV

4. 123/822

yon

HH 45748

DocId: 32296855

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TO

OPTIONAL FÇRM NO. 10

MAY 1982 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41. CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GO

INMENT

CONFTRENIIAI

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (166,1606132

C DATE:

6/16/67

FROM

SAC, MIAMI (162-446) (P)

SUBJECT:

DINO VINCENT CELLINI, Aka

ALLINFORMATION CONTAINED

KERCHIE UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPTANHERE SHOWN

OTHERWiSE

F1

ALD FIL

ADVICED

SLIP (S)

DATE

-27-81

CLASS. & EXT. BY

REASSY - FGIM II,

DATE OF REVIEW

Bureau authority is requested to obtain the long

distance telephone toll tickets for a six month period be-

ginning 5/1/67 for DINO CELLINI, who resides at 12459 Key-

stone Road, North Miami, Florida.

If authority is given

these toll tickets will be obtained through the issuance

of a subpoena in accordance with the existing established

practice.

1/105/

CELLINI, a professional gambler, is a close

personal friend and associate of SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.,

and

MEYER LANSKY.

He has been identified as one of LANSKY'S

top aids in the gambling casino field.

"The Daily Telegraph", London, England, on 2/27/67

reported that the British Home Office on 2/26/67

informed

DINO CELLINI, gambling advisor at the Colony Sporting Club,

London,

England

that he should arrange to leave England

by 3/41/67

И)

Information obtained from the Legat, London, revealed

that CELLINI departed London on 3/21/67 for France, accompanied

by his wife

HELENA. He has been permanently excluded from

England

has revealed that a person using the name of bINO V. CELLINI,

Information received from the Legat,

with home address 12459 Keystone Road, North Miami, Florida,

was in Canada from 4/17/67 through 4/22/67. He placed long

distance calls to numbers in the Miami area, which have

been identified as subscribed to by JACK SCHERNIN, who has

sett

• MALNIK,

5010-108-01

firm.

(U)

ChECiT

CELLINI has been observed at his residence and

to date appears to be unemployed.

It is possible that he

may be engaged in actiyities in behalf of MEYER LaNSKy

100. ad01

- Bureau

EX-108

2 - Miami

1 - 92-1840

REG-9.

116241606

FJS/jaj

LettiMM

3

(4)

20023-202 CONTINIAT

JUN 19 1967

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

HH 45748 DocId:32296855 Page 3

JFK)

---

