1 - Bland
@) 1 = Anderson

8/16/63

Airtel

oh, id
To: Ss; Butta 4 we
3°: New Yors (108-7804)

Prout. Director, FSI (le0W9ase5) “
SAGE COMAN
IS « CANADA

RellVaireel 8/9/62 with onclesed letterhead mesorasdum,

Bureau files disclese igo Rieti paige giclee possibly
identical with Bernard A, Prantl, i vw of vehicle
et bearing New Verk State License plate @ bt Ce)

ort of SA Paul A, downsen captioned "Richard
Cyril Frank! ie ei vork file 100-1076%3, Bureau ‘elie 106-401762 ,

(ne cepy to Buffalo) sets forth information on page Five jnlledcing \
Beraard ae,

that Richard Frenk hes a brother named io OT sihose
residence was given as 179 Berkeley Street, Rochester, New Yowt,
This addresa is also Listed es the residence of Frank's. 8, parents,
park, 5 L. and Pile M, Pronk, and the former residence of

ichard Frank resided at 110 Christopher Street,
New York ane as of he The ote which time he was contacted by
Dorean Ageats under th: OSA TOPLEV prograa. Freak w
ancooperative and Halts Ppsoditgh wher conmtseted at Shas tine.

Fanny Era, wife of Richard Frank, is alse a sccurity
subject of the New York Office, New York #116 1042479, Baoan
file oegava45 Roth Richard and Susan Frask are maintained oa
ity Indes ‘the New York Office. ee

Lind ‘Getawa (100-801) 7 ;

= . 100401762 {Richard Cyril Frank
100-339235 (Susan rank) : (fico Teter atnr aa
ba neers Lee cir Ps AA} ot. OD

1 - Foreign Liaison,Unit Wor RECOR

3 167 auc 20
8 ECR! = eee

5, NOTE PAGE TWO

\
\
4
ls
.

as

Docld:32570678 Page 1


F

D

Bog

Airtel to SAC, Baffale \,
Rez" dACk COUAN

106-408308

of possible Significance in this matter is the fact that
Richard and Susan Frank traveled to China sometime between 1959 and
1961, ostensibly with the epproval of the CP, USA, Susan Frank

had been requésted to york on the "Peking Review" and would be
reimbursed by the CP of China, The Franks reportedly also traveled
elsewhere in Europe Casing this period. It should be kept in mind
that the CP, USA and Cr of Canada have frequently exchanged
information by courier and have received instructions from abroad
by this means, if Bernard Frank, of interest in this matter, i
identified as the brother of Richard Frank mentioned above, he could
possibly be involved in courier activ ties, if not actually involved
im CP matters, in the Buffalo area. @ possibility should alse be
kept in mind that someone other than*Bernard A, Frank, possib.
Richard Frank, may have been in possession of the vehicle bearing
New York license IMg3l7 at the time 1t was observed in the Cowan's
driveway, Toronto, Canada, date not ind ated.)

)
In view of the above (ena Re interest in this matter,
Buffalo should expeditiously reSolyeCtiie identity of individual
driving the aboveenentioned vehiclqSand submit recommendations as
to further investigation in this réfard.

Additional copies of this communication are being
furnishes New York for inclusion. in their files on Susan and Richard
rank, :

NOKEL

. LRCMP. has ehetry vehicle bearing New Le abn
MMSS17 observed in subject's driveway, Toronto, Canada. g
reportedly has been active in CP activities in Canada and associate

of top-ranking CP leaders. He has, for a number of years, facilitated

@ passage of known communists to Europe. He was also active in
Bil pr tig passage to Spain for members of the International Brigade
and for obtaining passage for foreign-born Canadians returning to
Hungary and other satellite coustricE\s)New ‘ork has advised files
of NYO contain no identifiable inferiation fe
and Buffalo has been requested to-check its4indices, It is felt
the above additional investigation should be conducted.

SECREL
-2-

garding Bernard A, Frank,

Docld:32570678 Page 2

