JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10290-10211 7 \
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 92-3171-114
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HILL, RALPH R. JR.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 02/15/1961
PAGES: 86
SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

SGI, ASSOC, B/F INT, GAMBLING, BKG, REL, CRIMINAL
RECORD A/O ACT, TRA, TELCAL, INTV, KAYE, DAVE,
TESUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

01/16/1998

INDEFINITE

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES 1b, Ic

fa

val
DocId:32306571 Page 1

410


_ FEDER«<—. ‘AU OF INV - + ATION.

REPORTING OFFICE ~~" Torrie oF oniain DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
CHICAGO CHICAGO | 2SS- 6) | 11/23/60 - 1/27/61
TILE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY oer
sali cait m.__] sam
SAMUEL M, GIANCANA, aka.
rc ANTI-RACKETEERING

ay

REFBRENCE: Report of SA RALPH R, HILL, JR., dated December 1, 1960, at
ad Chicago.
-P-
“INDIANAPOLIS

point AT HAMMOND, INDIANA. Will advise Chicago of background informatior
relating to the Guarantee Reserve Life Insurance Company. Identify the
Present officers, financial status, and conduct appropriate inquiry relating
to the affairs of BEN JAFFE, aimed toward corroborating information set f, b
wae attached report regarding his activities.) }

<

-MIAMI

‘phone number .

aves

AT MIAMI AND MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA. Identify subscriber ganic
if v

‘SPECIAL AGENT

bebehseadelm ; # IN CHARGE DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES EELOW

MADE:

Bureau (92-3173) (RM) —]
2-Miami (92-170 RO F2tgiU pated a
2-Milwaukee RM)
2-Las Vegas (RM) 8 20 1961
2-Springfield (RM) :
2-Indianapolis (RM) Geestetiee —_
2-New York (92-793) (RM) i
3-Chicago (92-349) ,)

ea pone foil?
ay : cu. COVER PAGE { TA

"ROP BD Haro we 40 you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be diet

Docld:32306571 Page 2


Sever : , natant aman ‘ae
. Ck Oro
Sat hd =
i
CG 92-349 |
RRH: JEM/MDW
_ NEW YORK ; ‘

_ AT NEW YORK CITY, .NEW. YORK. Recontact JOHN TEETER,
confidential source, and ascertain present relationship between.
 GIANCANA and PHYLLIS MC GUIRE. :

> Identify subscribers to telephone numbers MU: 8-8483
and PL. 2+2735. (u) ; :

CHICAGO

AT. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, Will continue to coordinate
and intensify investigative efforts designed with the: purpose
of ascertaining GIANCANA's. financial: operations, as well. as. his
associates, activities,. etc. (u)

ADMINISTRATIVE

Information contained in the details of attached report
from CG.6343-C* has been paraphrased in such a manner as to pre-
clude.its possible disclosure. Therefore, exact dates on which
information was. given have. not been included and the information
has been more or less. loosely interpreted. (u)

INFORMATION CONTAINED IN ATTACHED REPORT FROM CG 6343-C*,

A HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL. SOURCE, IS NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED, .AND. I
UTILIZED, ‘SHOULD BE. CAREFULLY PARAPHRASED, (a)

"INFORMANTS i
CG T-1

SANDY. SMITH, "Chicago Tribune" reporter, to SA RALPH R.
- HILL, JR. (Requested)

CG:T-2 CG 6241-C, to SA HILL,
CG:Ta3. OG 6343-C#
_ 24
= C=

COVER PAGE

DocId:32306571 Page 3



res MINA :
ead Ovo

CG. 92-349
RRE: JEM/MDW
CG T-4.. - LOUIS E, CORRINGTON, President, Guarantee Bank, and
Trust Company, Chicago, to SAS HILL and VINCENT ‘L,:
“ENSERRA (Requested)
CG: T+5 P. E, DUNN, Investigator, Dun and Bradstreet,.Chicago,.
- to.SA. KENNETH i GROEPER : (Requested)
CG. T=6 SU .370-C
CG T+7 OG,.6379=C to. SA: CURTIS A, HESTER
CG Ta8 NY. 3090-C
- G T+9 CG 6272-C to SA WILLIAM F, ROEMER
CG T-10. PAUL JOHNSON, Village.Trustee,. Stone. Park, Illinois,
to. SA HILL: (Requested)
OG. T+11L PCI JOHN NOTTOLINI. to SA: HARRY A,..WALKER
CG T-12 PCI. RALPH FRANCIS KELLY. ‘to SA WALKER
: . '
CG T-13 PCI WILLIAM OTTO: FREEMAN to SA.-RAYMOND. F, HOGAN '
CG: Ta14. HOWARD JOHNSON, Vice President, Trust Division, American
National. Bank, Chicago, to SA HILL (Requested) |
CG: Ts15 PCI OLLIE CHRISTENSON to SA HILL
©G T-16 Dun. and Bradstreet report 5/2/60
CG. T-17 oc 6435=PC to SAS HILL: and.MARLIN H,. MOORE 1/26/61;
CG. T=18 foc) 6428-c to SA BRYAN J, MOGEN
-CG.Tx19 «ROBERT SCHUMM, Supervisor, Middle’ States Tel Co., to

SA ROBERT L, BAKER (Requested)

=-De« E WY
COVER. PAGE

| DocLa: 32306571

Page 4


CO i

OG 92-349
RBRH: JEM/MDW

GG T-20 PCI, ALBERT -TEMANER to SA. JOHN J. MATTHEWS :
CG T-21. CG 6215~C to SA ROBERT L, BUCKINGHAM
CG T-22 - PCE GLADYS EBLE. to-SA HILL.
CG-T+23 . SU 266-C
-0G 1-24. FLORENCE TETLOW, Supervisor, Security Department,

. Illinois Bell. Telephone Company to IC: JOHN:*E.. WHALEN
(Requested) seeeeeeees

UY

(COVER PAGE

i
; DocId: 32306571 Page 5



oY
Cy

CG 92-349
RRH: djs/MDW

to CG T-3. Informant continued that JAMES, for his part in the
negotiations, will receive approximately $1,000 per month from
GIANCANA, et al, while JAMES is in the penitentiary. This
$1,000 a month will actually be contributed by JOHN DREW from
the latter’s interest which is $6,000 per monthi )

According to CG T-3, the kingpin in the negotiations
in Las Vegas was GIANCANA, ably assisted by ANTHONY ACCARDO .
and MURRAY HUMPHREYS, W

According to the informant, the negotiations are not
quite complete at this time. However, for all practical purposes,
the contract is sealed and the only rart remaining will be the |
“picking up of- loose ends." The informant clarified the latter
by stating that it will be necessary now to obtain clearance from
the Nevada Gaming Commission and other State of Nevada officials
for individuals that GIANCANA, et al, plan to place as official
holders. of the points which have been obtained. The informant
continued that the contribution given by this group amounts to
approximately $36,000 per month. The returma on this investment
is unknown to the informant. «| :

CG T-3 continued that MURRAY HUMPHREYS, GUS. ALEX,
and FRANK FERRARO were also included in these negotiations
although they did not take an active part in the final stages( y

V.._ CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES
Gambling :

Gus' Steak House
4819 Roosevelt Road

Cicero, Illinois

CG T-17 advised on December 16, 1960, that Gus’
Steak House, which is located on Roosevelt Road and 48%h Court,
Cicero, Illinois, is a restaurant operated by the"gambling.
syndicate." The money for this establishment was put. us
by JOHNNY KRINGLES, brother of GUS KRINGLES, This is th:
family who are also partners in the funeral parlor at Kringles
and Margulos. () EE cae

- 67 =

i
| poora: 32306571 Page 6

