JFK Assassination System Date: 6/4/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10278-10400

RECORD SERIES: HQ

! AGENCY FILENUMBER: —97-4474-81

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, MM’
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: . 12/19/1963
“PAGES: = 5

SUBJECTS :
MIRR, MEMBERS, RES, RAID, PLANE, CUBA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENTSTATUS: Redact_~
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM

v9.b
Docld:32301565 Page 1


2c - tb OQ

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.
Miami, Florida
December 19, 1963

Re: MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE
- RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA
NEUTRALITY MATTER:

Previous information furnished by MM T-1, a

ban exile who has been involved in: anti-Fidel Castro

‘or several years, reflects: that Dr. Orlando

os head of the Movimiento Insurrec:

Recupéracion Revolucionaria (MIRR), an anti-Fidel | Castro,

zation of Cuban éxiles, is planning a bombing raid

against an o1l refinery at Nuevitas, iCamaguey Province,
Cuba. This raid was ordginally scheduled for the night
of December 14 or 15, 1963, but encounteréd several post-
ponements. The raid was to have been based in Bimini, B. W. I.

MM T-1 identified an Agro Cot rp; airplane,
registration N2624B, property-of Charl. » Broward
County International Airport, Florids, the’ plane

scheduled to make the raid. It was planned, according
to MM T-1 that this plane would: be flown by Bush to .
Bimini shortly prior. to’ the scheduled bombing raid, The

Pane would be. parked on the Bimini air strip, and Bush
would leave the plane and register at a Bimini hotel.
Thereafter, under cover of darkness, a Cuban pilot, accom-
panied by a Cuban crew of three individuals arriving by
boat from the Miami area, would load: the plarie ‘with bombs’
and take off about 1:00 a.m, for their target. They —~
would then return to Bimini and depart under cover of
darkness in their boat for Miami.

. MM T-1 advised on December 17, 1963, that
adverse weather conditions in the Miami area had Prevented

| ALL INFOR ft £6 contanen

HERE 1S INC] vi9Pr Jah
DATE,
SHe[ 86 5) im

Docld:32301565 Page 2

6-1 Wf’ I ae MSR.
ff? AMES)



ne So

Re: MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE
RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)
INTERNAL SECURITY. - CUBA .
NEUTRALITY MATTER:

the Cuban pilot, Evelje{Alpizi erez, from taking
his third and fourth practice flights with the Aero
Commander at Broward County International Airport on
December 16 and 17, 1963. :

In the meantime, according to MM T-1,
Bosch and his companions continued with preliminary
preparations for the raid. The sum of $21.00 was
furnished to the pilot, Alpizar, to purchase maps
and a computer for the raiding flight.

On December 18, 1963, MM T+1 advised that - . \
since weather conditions in the Miami area had cleared ‘
up, Bosch planned to resume his schedule for the bombing \
raid. Bosch furnished $75.00 to Alpizar for another L

practice flight scheduled to take place in the Aero é BP: a
Commander on December 19, 1963, at Broward International Z .
. Alrport. Bosch also indicated that the last and final: pl

practice flight. preparatory to the raid would take i Oe

place on the night of December 20, 1963, in the. Aero )

Commander but that this flight would: not go over. Bimini | | ye

as had been originally planned, due to the opposition of, b lew

Charles Bush, who felt that this would entail a security yy wre .

risk. - , a
MM T-1 advised that Bosch also plans to have

the plane drop anti-Fidel Castro propaganda leaflets

during its flight over Cuba. 4 .

. MM T-1 also advised that W21199)Sonneon, who
made arrangements for procurement of: the Aéro Commander

on behalf of Bosch, 41s-also involved. in making arrangements
for procurement of/the boat which will be used in trans-
porting members of the raiding party from Miami to Bimint
and back again. MM T-1 said that it now appears only one
boat, instead of two, will be used in this operation. The
boat which will be used has been described by some of the

-2-.

Docld:32301565 Page 3


RY

Re: MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

‘  RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MRR)
INTERNAL. SECURITY .- CUBA
NEUTRALITY MATTER:

individuals planning the raid as a 28 foot one motored
boat with a flying bridge of the type generally used
by sports fishermen.

MN pL 'p apytnnEZ, identified a photograph
of DANIEL ORLA! SIS RANINEZ, a Cuban exile ec)
guy, 21, 1 lien Registration #Al 9 033,

e individual responsible for constructing tng home
made bombs which are being used in the raid. “Ramirez
will take part in the raid as crewman,

‘Nf 7-1 also identified a a photograph of Marcelino.
Gare:

imenez, born July 18, 1908,_1n Cuba, Align
2-H4-3-528, as a Cuban exile wi 8 been
“associating with Dr. Orlando Bosch and Laregm@Rodriguez,

, Treasurer of the MIRR, during the past sev days.

,

. MM T-1 observed a photo of Jose G@
odriguez, Cuban exile born apvember az
seer Registration Al2 82 Parr 6, Teaenb lance

“to a Cuban who seems to be a close friend ‘and companion
of Ramirez, and who has been observed to drive a Falcon
automobile, white in color. MM T-1 believes the driver
of the Falcon automobile may be scheduled to participate
in the bombing raid as a crewman.

PROPERTY OF THE FBI - This document contains
neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is
the property.-of the FBI and.is loaned to your agency; it

‘and its contents are not to’ be distriputed outside your

agency.

= 3t

Docld:32301565 Page 4


F'D-36 (Raye 1213158) C C —_

tee
FBI

Date: 12/19/63
AIRTEL
Transmit the following in

'
1
1
|
1
4
1
t
1
'
1
t

(Type in plain text or code) |

i, To: DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474) - Ohh Bas we
: [FROM: ae. MIAMI (105-2855) (P) . ‘

t Un MOVIMIENTO INSURRECLIONAL DE wy
NSCUPERACTON. REVOLUCIONARIA (unr) | arate, fal

S -
Lf NM . HEREIN E lige:
Re Miami airtel to Bureau, 1:

a? ‘ i
2/16/6 4 6-f/. gy
Myamt teletypes 12/17,18/63 to the un fte/ 3" and Oy 4 they ra

G
ci

y

Enclosed are 12 copies of a letterhead nenorandun, (*
dated and captioned as above.

mo

~,, Copies of instant letterhead memorandum are being
furnished locally to INS, State Department, Border Patrol,
Customs (local and regional), Coast Guard, G-2, ONI, OSI, .
SIA and FAR, .

Wein, Coban eaffer, (Eby

dia &

e.Dihe
Eps

avs)
Sted,
e~

Miami will maintain close contact with MM T-1
and will keep the Bureau and agencies informed of pertinent
developments.

 3-+ Bureau (ene. 12)(am) (mae W777 - 449 ~ g/ ,
aspctnt z BCs 17 12 neal eG

Copy to: CIA/STATE/RAQ/,
ONI /OSI/ACSHc3

I

t \ if L&
Approved: ~ Yn _usca ne Shy)
\W4 Sbectal Aaght’ ini Casrmerd: Neto.

101564
oF “ emit tee ee Sm ee eee ee eee we.
Docld:32301565 Page 5 7 : las E) Or

oe



F'D-36 (Rove 12-12556) on

CI
O

4
i}
1
I
! n
H :
t oe
FBI Ie r
“41% !
Date: 12/19/63 H Moe
AIRTEL ! re
Transmit the following in ty :
(Fype in plain text or code) l \
Via AIRMAIL i a
: 4 :
(Priority or Method of Mailing) 1 7
moro ee ee |
(0, To: DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474) we bs wee
; fy FROM: ae: MIAMI (105-2855) (P) on Ww
wy -
Fa pet MOVIMIENTO_INSURRECLONAL-DE ,
N IRR th :
RECUEERACTO REVOLUCIONARIA (M. Daw aad vi faunedt

' Re Miami airtel to Bureau, 12/16/63,’ and 6-//-' f-
MYami teletypes 12/17, 18/63 to the Bureau.” hae, aS i

Dp |

™M "HEREIN IS YNGLASSIFIED
seas: .
Y Se

Enclosed are 12 copies of a letterhead nenorandun, (*
dated and captioned as above.

Coples of instant letterhead memorandum are being
furnished locally to INS, State Department, Border Patrol,
Customs (local and regional), Coast Guard, G-2, ONI, OSI, . f

a

Cee Le, Cte Offa, POL

CIA /STATE/RAQ/205/,
ONI/OSI/ACSI/custe
ip for into. ré

STA arid” FAA ;, - . ‘

Dia

Vd

BENTLEY, Special Branch, Bahamian Police, Nassau, current i
advised concerning all pertinent developments. Mr. BENTLEY
has advised that he has taken preparations to prevent the
plane from departing on a bombing raid in the event the MIRR
should succeed in evading U. S. Interception.

je the —

Via,

Hr The Miamt Office has disc been keeping Mr. GREGG/

MM T-1 is EVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ, 3625 Northwest
llth Street, Miami, a former Cuban commercLal pilot.

Miami will maintain close gontact with MM T-1
and will keep the Bureau and agencies” informed of pertinent

developments.
<3 Bureau (Enc. VB5(ain) (RM) - Bia ag 77 — LL LIS “3 f

~30- Miami
peasy )-9-6

v 4 EXell7  . 42 ve webngle
u ~-L —steanes a aay

By routing

Copy to

=

\ | Special Aga

79 JAN 101964

Docld:32301565 Page 6

