# docid-32286869

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10196-10145

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1015

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO:

SAC, CG

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/11/1963

SGI, TRA, ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

, CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286869

Page 1

68

---

## Page 2

6/11/63

Airtel

To: SAC, Chicago

From:

Director, FBI

SAMUEL

AR

GIANCANA

ALL!:"

NER

DA 4/231844

2RED

MAILED 30

JUN 7 1 1963

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans .

*Gale

Rosen

*Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room .

Holmes .

Gandy -

Re New York airtel 6/10/63.

(U)

Chicago follow developments regarding

: Glancana's

reported traver

very closely and where appropriate set out

immediate leads to provide appropriate coverage.

In so doing,

appropriate caution should be given to other offices in order

to fully protect PCI Lovell Willlanson as the source of infor-

nation on Giancana.

Legat, Paris

is being alerted concerning Giancana's

reported intent

to visit there and possibly contact porfirio

Rubizosa.

Any details concerning the date and nethod of travel

for this

proposedvisit should be immediately furnished to the

Bureau and appropriate offices in order that Legat, Paris and

rappropriate Customs officials may be alerted.

No recoro of 27 carat uncut stone valued at $200,000

$300,000 located in the National Stolen Property File. U

COMM-FBI

It not already done, New York promptly advise appro

priate Custons officials of intornation furnished relative to

Gennay's contact in Customs provided

any indication of irregularity

- New loris

REC 14

92=;

15 JUN

171 - 1011

! 12 1363

NOTE:

PCI Lowell Wilfiamson,

husband of Dorothy McGuire of the

singing sister team, has furnished information that er top hoodlum

Sam Glancana proposes to visit Paris sometime in the near ruture.

possibly to contact porilrio Rubirosa, Dominican Republic diplomat

and international playboy concerning gambling in the Dominican

-Republic.

-JGL: asg

(5)

JUN

MAN ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32286869 Page 2

---

