JFK Assassination System Date: 6/4/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10278-10489

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 97-4474-225
oseSSS SEES SEES SSS caasaasns annonces asada cones aanciaaeaaseeeesaseeeeeeesasassceesassasneeeeeaaaeee eens asssatee td dssereSEHaGeereeen ata aaiestnasaeeeeeeSnee eee attaa
Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, TP
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/11/1965
“PAGES: 6

SUBJECTS :
MIRR, ACA, ASSOC, MEETING, CUBAN CLUB

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 06/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INCLHM

SEnAsE easiness sanant oat onstantoanannantceasoneoaleeatant oe asant ant enatanieesanssant oe asaniobaneeasantonasanteaateeetisseO aie eseteeisastebsteeinastebitin tet enittnteniseitnetentts
v4 1

DocId:32301654 Page 1


FBI

/ Date: 8/¥Y¥65

[ronan the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)
Vie AIRTEL AIR MAIL

(Priority)

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

SAC, TAMPA (105-374) (P) HERES USP D

ASSIFIED

RCLA,

DAT
(TENTO_INSURRECCIONAL
SUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)
‘CUBA; NM ns

ReMMairtel to Director, 6/29/65, enclosing LHM,

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are 12 copies of
an LHM dated and captioned as above,

V
Copies of same are being furnished locally to

A ONI, OSI, G-2, Ft. McPhesson, BMG, Orlando, INS, and Secret ee
x Service, "Tampa, U.S. Customs, Tampa. :

Eight copies are being furnished to Miami in
the event thag office desiresto disseminate to the Co-
ordinator of ban Affairs, Department of State, CIA,
Coast Guard, Customs, U.S. Border Patrol, and INS,

‘Tp T-1 is PSI VICTOR PASETTI, bookkeeper of the
DGpa: ae Tampa, _ Te {-2 is SI TP 52-8.

; LHM is classified "Confidential" [
< Buréau % : j inasmuch as it contains informatio
Qo. Miami ¢ RM): from TP T-1 and TP T-2, sources of

t E50. 139). continuing value, the disclosure
of which might compromise their
arcana future pee, Chinois

cre surat Ret pean S77 //2./ aS
i @D Boo i = = B 1

DocId:32301654 Page 2 ~


ce duSuzceasSEErEETEEEreeeSeSebexGussssERGEGeEW, dgi50b 2

—_—_—_— oo Oo > SUSSECEBUSSESSEanenreerinee so css ccczcasan!

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL
DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

Anget{Gatierre, representative of Movimiento y
Revolucionario 30 ae Noviembre (30th of j
November Revolutionary Movement) i

_Dr. Jose #Sueren, president of the Marti Club.

TP T-1 advised that the Cuban Club facilities, were
utilized by another anti-Castro group on July 4, 1965, a
which time there had been a telephone call advising of a,
bomb placed in the building. This necessitated police search
of ‘the building which resulted negatively, However, in :
view of this, the directors of the Cuban Club had established
a@ policy not to make their facilities available to Cuban
groups unless the majority of local groups petitioned the
group. For this reason, accordimg to TP T-1, the long
list of delegates on the petitioning letter were set forth.
He pointed out, however, that this list included primarily
those organizations who met with or were closely associated
in Tampa yith the CACALC,

On Ajgust 4, 1965, TP T-2 advised that—nr. 03
Orlan 5 ‘Avila, head of an anti-Castro revolutionary bos
organization of Cuban Exiles known as the MIRR, was

planning to visit Tampa from August 12-14, 1965.. A
private meeting is scheduled on August 12 at the office

of CACALC, which is the residence of Enrique Someillan,
representative of the MIRR in Tampa. This meeting will be
‘for the purpose of organizing the program for a public

meeting to be held Saturday, August 14, 1965, at the Cuban
Club in Tampa. , It is planned at this time to show movies

of the attempted sabotage of a Cuban vessel, "Arecelio
Iglesias", in Panama,

TP T-2 stated that approximately 10 to 12 persons
are expected from Miami and a group from Orlando, Florida,
are expected to participate although they are not offi dally
recognized delegates of the MIRR.

TP T-2 furnished the following list of indiviluals

who are expected to attend the meeting, August 14, 1965:

-2-

GONEIDENTIAL

DocId:32301654 Page 3
