# docid-32300194

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10226-10474

HQ

105-86406-1ST NR 21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/11/1965

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

GPH, ASSOC, EXPEDITION, REVOLUTIONARY ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32300194

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

- 4=3 (ROV. 12-19-64)

SECRAD

INFORMA

LOTACONTAINED

SSIT13D

VIN

DECODED COPY

ISE

• AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

V.

• RADIO XXXTELETYPE

Conrad -

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel.

Trotter

Tele, Room

Holmes.

Gandy.

12:43 AM EST DEFERRED

TO DIRECTOR

FROM MIAMI

6 A AS N BANECTION TO 1 NGO

DECLASSISCATION AND/OR,

110300

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

2-5-98 NEUTRALITY PÄTTERS

CONSTANZO PALAU; GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, ETAL, NM,

ANTONIO

ÁS-DR.

INTERNAL SECURITY- DOMiNiCAN RepubLiC

3

8

RE CIA MESSAGE JUNE MEAST ENTITLED "RECRUITMENT. OF CUBA

EXILES IN MEAMI, FLORIDA

• TO ASSIST GENERAL ANTONIO IMBERT A

BARRERAS, HEAD OF THE LOYALIST FORCES IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

LUIS POSADA, A CUBAN REFUGEE IN MIAMI, WHO HAS FURNISHED

RELIABLE INFO IN THE PAST, AND WHO REQUESTED HIS IDENTITY BE

PROTECTED, ON JUNE 10 INSTANT FURNISHED THE FOLLOWING.

CONSTANZO AND HEMMING IN MIAMI ARE RECRUITING CUBAN REFUGEES

AND

AMERICAN ADVENTURERS TO GO TO THE DR AS COMMANDOS.

AFTER THE TOTAL OF 49 CUBANS AND 11 AMERICANS. ARE RECRUITED

THEY WILL BE ARMED WITH FAL AND AR 15 RIFLES. AND SENT TO DR BY

PRIVATE PLANE. THEY WILL HAVE VISAS TO ENTER

DR. EACH COMMANDO

WILL RECEIVE 200 TO 250 DOLLARS ON DEPARTURE FROM. USA AND WILL

RECEIVE $50 A DAY COMBAT PAY. CONSTANZO CLAIMS THEY WILL LEAVE

ON JUNE 12 NEXT; PLACE OF DEPARTURE UNKNOWN. THE RECRUITS HAVE

NO ARMS AS YET. THE SOURCE OF THE ARMS AND MONEY IS UNKNOWN.

"CONSTANZO CLAIMS THE SOURCE IS GENERAL IMBERT AND THE COMMANDOS

WILL FIGHT WITH HIS FORCES. HEMMING CLAIMS THE SOURCE OF MONEY

IS AMERICAN BUSINESS MEN WHO ARE EMPLOYING THESE COMMANDOS TO

GUARD THEIR FACTORIES AND BUSINESSES ANDRO LUIS POSADA, SAID

CONSTANZO AND HEMMING. POSADA SAYS CONSTANZO IS UNRELIABLE,

PRESPONSIBLE, AND ADVENTURER WHO EVERYDAY HAS A NEW PLAN .FOR

JFK

21-98

Classified by

Beclasshry on.

AVIA

TAL)

MR. BELIONT FOR THE DIRECTOR O

60 JUN 28 1965

105-86406

NOT RECORDED

102 JUN 20/1965

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems."

11 JUN 17

1965

DECLASS

OM

de the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

DocId: 32300194

Page 2

---

## Page 3

'4=3 (Rev" 12-14-64)

SECRET

DECODED COPY

DARGRAM

• • CABLEGRAM

O RADIO XXTELETYPE

Tolson

Belmont.

Mohi -

De Loach -

Casper -

Callahan.

Conrad -

Felt

Gale -

Rosen .

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room.

Holmes -

Gandy -

PAGE TWO FROM MIAMI

110300

REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITY. POSADA THINKS THIS EXPEDITION IS HIGHLY

UNLIKELY TO HAPPEN. CONSTANZO:

AND HEMMING USE AN APPLICATION

FORM FOR RECRUITS TO COMPLETE. OF THE THOUSANDS OF YOUNG

UNEMPLOYED CUBAN REFUGEES IN MIAMI, RECRUITMENT IS EASY.

JAS, CUSTES dISA SAID THEY HAVE NOT RECEIVED RE ONLI

MESSAGE AND WILL DETERMINE LATER: IF THEY WILL ACTIVELY

INVESTIGATE THIS MATTER.

MIAMI OFFICE IS MAINTAINING CONSTANT CONTACT WITH POSADA AND

WILL KEEP THE BUREAU ADVISED. BUREAU IS REQUESTED.. TO PRESENT THIS

MATTER TO DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE TO ASCERTAIN IF A DOM. NEUTRAL!?

INVESTIGATION IS REQUESTED. MIAMI WILL SUBMIT THIS INFO IN MATTER

FORM SUITABLE FOR DISSEMINATION LOCALLY LHM FOLLOWING.

RECEIVED: 2:01 AM MLT

OC MR SULLIVAN

SECR

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32300194 Page 3

---

