# docid-32164547

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

•. AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10156-10018

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-5TH NR 4716

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, BN

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/21/1964

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

LHO, BKG

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

10/22/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (2)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32164547

Page 1

---

## Page 2

5-11! (Rev. 3-11-63)

OPTIONAL FAXM NO. 10

19149160

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN.

REG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES G..: ERNMENT

Memorandum

CONFIDENTIAL

TO

Director, FBI (:

DATE:

FROM

Legal Attache, Bonn

106: 4775

11S NOT

SUBJECT:

JOACHaM

233

Joachin Franz Jooston

I0 - CH

48

Classified by 5668 SLOGGL

Reference

Bonmartel

to Bureau,

Enclosed is one photographic copy each of

23-64•

Declassify on: OADRIc)

communication(s) between the following described individuals or organizations.

This material

was extracted from confidential Communications Intercept Service (CIS) information received

by the Legal Attache from the U. S. Army Operations and Research Detachment, Frankfurt/Main,

Germany, as indicated. This source should be protected. If any information from the enclosed

material is furnished to a foreign source, it should be so paraphrased as to fully protect the nature

of the source.

Enclosure(s) is (are)

classified confidential by the source.](c)

It is suggested that enclosure(s)

) be translated (verbatim)

(in summary) and enclosure(s) and translation be forwarded to appropriate

domestic field division.

Dated

Recd

Addressee

Addressor

Post-

đ on 00

marised 7-24-66

A. C. SOHLICUZING

Berlin- Pantow

Partstrasse 51

Berlin,

coranny

САН МАЗАНА

Mascons

Muncell

Publiabers, In

100 West

20rd Streot

New Yons 11, N. 1.

better states:

Lee

"We have sent you

ASSASSEN

OR FALL GUY under

separare cover.

It la a nich superior pook

than Enchanan's; more objective,

Less lancaru ano more uto-date.

The larzon Cuiosion roport n411 be out in deetenter and

plan vithin & week to bave an annigels of the report which will

be incorporated in the resent

Osuaid book as a long

introduction.

She nuchor Jock 3OSSm 1a in clarge of Gormn righte.

He 1s

now in Munich.

Minite, to hin right away Dosto Restante,

Wunich

and told hin you are interested.

may bave

a publisher already."

02040

100

ORIGIN

fied by

Exempt from

- Bureau (Enc.

, Date eftor

(1 - Liaison section Eblah 7947

4 - Dons (1 : 100-043) (1 - 105-4275)

(1 : 68-300

act: sim

SEP 9 1964301

efinite

105-825

LiSTENScom

_ REVIEWED BY I

FB#JFK TASK FORCE

NOT RECORDED 1 17-95 dal

199 SEP ON 1964

RELEASE IN FULL

CONFIDENTIAL

PELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

DocId: 32164547 Page 2

---

