# docid-32308110

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10293-10468

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-661

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/16/1962

1

SGI, ASSOC, REL, RES, CAR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

| DocId: 32308110

Page 1

218

---

## Page 2

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

AUNICATIONS SECTION

MAR 1 6 1962

TELEMYRE

Mr.

Tolson

Mr. Belmont

Mr.

Mohr----

NT. Colahan 9)

Mr. DeLeach,

Mr. Evans.&

Mr. Malone-

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele, Room

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy-

DEFERRED

3-16-82

8-56

PM JEG

TO DIRECTOR FBI

92-3171

TALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

FROM SAC ERICAGO

92-349

DATE4-23-34 BYSP5R5G/

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKAO, AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

Potent int

CRIMING INFURANT

LOWELL GOLDMAN, CHICAGO

ROI, ADVISED HE HAS RECENTLY BECOME ACQUAIN-

TED WITH BROTHER OF FIORE QUOTE"FI FI"UNQUOTE BUCCIERI. CHICAGO INVES-

TIGATION HAS DEVELOPED INFO WITH STRONG INDICATIONS BUCCIERI IS HIRED

QUOTE"

HIT MAN''

UNQUOTE FOR GIANCANA. INFORMANT ADVISED QUORE"FI FI-S"

UNQUOTE BROTHER WHILE UNDER INFLUENCE OF LIQUOR, CONFIDED THAT ONLY

PERSON HE FEARS IS OWN BROTHER INASMUCH AS' HE CLAIMS QUOTE"FI FI"

UNQUOTE

WOULD KILL A RELATIVE AS QUICK AS ANYONE ELSE. INFORMANT TO MAINTAIN

CONTACT AND ATTEMPT REPORT ACTIVITIES OF BUCCIERI. (V)

INFORMANT LEARNED DAVE YARAS PRESENTLY LIVING ROOM TWO ZERO THREI

SOUTH, TIDES MOTEL, CHICAGO, AND DRIVING WHITE JAGUAR FURNISHED FREE

OF CHARGE BY MID WEST TRIUMPH, A CHICAGO SPORTS CAR DEALER. CLAIMS

YARAS HAS SUBSTANTIAL FINANCIAL INTEREST IN THIS COMPANY, WHICH ALSO

SUPPLIES OTHER CHICAGO HOODLUMS WITH CARS•

GIANCANA ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

END AND ACK AND HOLD PLS

REC

99-3111

10-00 PM OK FBI

WA

50 APR 3

1901

11.3

5 MAR 28/1962

DocId: 32308110 Page 2

---

## Page 3

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

The document which should appear in this

location has already been processed and

transferred to Archives pursuant to the

JFK Act of 1992. The document can be

located in the following package:

Miscellaneous

June

References

SAmue/ Grancana 92-3171-657

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

DocId: 32308110 Page 3

---

## Page 4

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

...-

The document which should appear in this

location has already been processed and

transferred to Archives pursuant to the

JFK Act of 1992. The document can be

Located in ele following package:

miscellancous"'Jame" Refurences

samuel Geancana 92-3171-654

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

DocId: 32308110 Page 4

---

