# docid-32286527

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10195-10303

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-12-365

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/10/1962

7

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

CIP, BOOKMAKER, TOLL CALLS, RES, BURGLARY

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286527

19

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FE: 8 (Rea: 12-13, 51

FBI

Transmit the following in

Date:

9/10/62

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO.

LOM

SUBJECT

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

SAC, DALLAS (94-55A-SUB)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas dirtel to Bureau, 9/4/62.

RE :

SHERMAN FRANKLIN LITTLE,

aka.

(DL 162-129)

TEXAS

On 9/4/62, & check of license numbers recently observed:

at subject's gambling club, the Redman Club, 3109.

Siest Davis,

Dallas, ascertained that one of subject's associates and a

known gambler, MICHAEL LESCHETSKO, was now driving & 1962

Oldsmobile, Texas license MY 3833.

On 9/5/62, PCI GEORGE FUQUA advised that MARVIN RALPH

PRESTRIDGE, & bookmaker who was known to have worked for LITTLE

In the past, was presently operating as a bookmaker someplace in

Arlington, Texas, with gambler BUDDY HAAS. PCI advised that

GLENN ERNEST BURNETT was also operating out of an unknown Dallas

apartment. PCI was attempting to locate the phone numbers being

used by LITTLE, PRESTRIDGE and BURNETT.

On 9/6/62,

toll calls charged to the Redman Club and

to the phone of LESCHETSKO were obtained from the Southwestern

Bureau

Atlanta (Info)

OTO

Oklahoma

City (166-12) (Info)

1

Dallas

(162-129)

-

Dallas

(162-109)

Dallas

(92-61)

Dallas

(137-1216)

Da, las

(065-29)

1

Dallas

(162- 37).

Dallas: (162-1)

BENCLOSURE.

1558

Approved:

1 - Dallas

(162-New) (CHARLES

CLARENCE HILL)

1 - Dallas

1

- Dallas

• Dallas

- Dallas

1

Dallas

- Dallas

RuB : pm

(19)

(92-39)

(137-566)

(162-186)

(06415)

(97-213)62-942-J65

(94-55A-Sub)

REG 60

16 SEP

o 1962

Sent

Mysper Agent gore

M

Per

"DocId: 32286527 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DI 94-53A-ädb

Bell Telephone Company, Dallas. There were numerous calls during

the period from 5/8 to

7/20/62, placed from the Redman Club to

Arlington and Fort Worth, Texas.

There were alsc numerous calls

charged to LESCHETSKO's phone made to Arlington and Fort Worth,

and there was one call placed to Redondo Beach, California.

Information concerning LESCHETSKO, the toll calls,

and information obtained from PCI FUQUA was orally furnished

to It. JACK REVIL, Intelligence Section, Dallas Police Department,

and Deputy Sheriff

BOB MORGAN, Dallas Sherifi's Office, on 9/6/62.

RE: ALBERT MEADOWS, aka.

IGA

(DI. 162-109)

On 9/6/62, toll calls charged to the phone of MEADOWS'

associate, BILLY RAY GRIMES, Dallas, were obtained from the

Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, Dallas.

It was noted there

were numerous calls to Fort Worth, Texas, specifically to

"KIRKWOOD", believed identical with known gambler, W. C. KIRKWOOD.

On 9/7/62, in an effort to locate the present apartment

from which MEADOWS is believed operating as a bookmaker, it was

determined through a check of the school records for the children

of HELEN WEYGANDT CARTER (known close friend of MEADOWS) that she

was presently living in Apartment 208, 1836 Stevens Forest Drive.

She had given the school a telephone number of WH 6-4458, but

this was later determined to be

a nonexistent number.

On 9/7/62,

the manager of the apartment house advised

that a Mr. and Mrs. JOHN L.

CARTER resided in the apartment, that

the rent was paid every month in cash by Mr. CARTER.

The manager

furnished a description of Mr. CARTER which matched that of BILLY

RAY GRIMES. She also identified a photograph of MEADOWS as a

person she

has seen at the apartment house.

The manager has

stated she would furnish any information she could develop con-

cerning MEADOWS, GRIMES and HELEN CARTER, especially telephone

numbers and license numbers observed at the apartment house.

Information obtained from a check of GRIMES' toll calls,

the location of MEADOWS' new place for bookmaking operation, was

orally furnished to Lt. REVILI and Deputy MORGAN on 9/7/62.

•DocId: 32286527 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 94- 554- Sub

RE:

GEORGE FUQUA, aka.

AR; PCI

(DL 92- 61) (DL 137-1216)

On 9/3/62, neighborhood source MAE NABORS telephonically

furnished

information concerning a car she had observed at FUQUA's

residence.

Upon checking the license number, it was determined

this car belongs to RILEY B. BAWCUM, known Dallas gambler.

On 9/5/62, FUQUA was contacted (the information obtained

is set out below),

and during the contact was asked about BAWCUM

being at his residence.

He was told that BAWCUM's car had been

observed by police officers, a number of which reside in the

same area as does FUQUA. FUQUA admitted knowing BAWCUM, but

did not furnish the reason for BAWCUM's contact on 9/3/62.

Later on 9/5/62, SA ROBERT M. BARRETT,

while checking

cars at the Tenison Golf Course, a known hangout for Dallas

gamblers including BAWCUM, observed BAWCUM in contact with Lt.

TYREE LEONARD playing golf.

• On 9/7/62, Mrs. NABORS advised that FUQUA's wife had

told her that one of their neighbors was telling the FBI about

visitors they were having. FUQUA had told his wife that he had

learned this from a Dallas police officer who had told a friend

of FUQUA's that undoubtedly the FBI had somebody in the neighbor-

hood watching their residence.

MIS. NABORS stated that the

FUQUAs did not suspect her because of their close past relation-

ship.

During thecontact on 9/5/62, FUQUA furnished the follow

ing information:

FUQUA advised that BILLY RAY DAVIS, subject of Dallas

file 165-29, was in Las Vegas during the last week in August and

first week in September, during which time DAVIS telephonically

contacted FUQUA and claimed he was going to Kansas City from

Las Vegas.

FUQUA advised that before leaving Dallas, DAVIS

had had a

"line" on the exhibition football game

between the

Green Bay Packers and the Dallas Cowboys.

DAVIS had told FUQUA

he had obtained this line from sources in Las Vegas and from

GIL BECKLEY in Miami.

FUQUA noted that Green Bay was a 10-point

favorite in Las Vegas and Miami, according to DAVIS, but was a

14-point favorite in Dallas.

"DocId: 32286527 Page 4

---

## Page 5

DI 94-504- 30b

FUQUA advised he had heard that JOHN ELI STONE

(D1 162-37) got his line for athletic events from an unknown

source in Shreveport, Louisiana,

and also that he would lay off

bets with a contact in Las vegas.

FUQUA had no other details

concerning this, but did state that practically all bets placed

in Dallas with bookies filter back to STONE by layoff.

FUQUA advised that Dallas bookmakers CHARLES CLARENCE

HILL (DL 162-New) and NORVILLE YOUNG STANFIELD (DL 162-186) are

on a par in size of operation with SHERMAN FRANKLIN LITTLE and

AL MEADOWS.

He stated these two operate closely together with

states these t

HILL, operating out of a drugstore at 2700 Ross Avenue, and that

STANFIELD has a place in Dallas, whereabouts unknown to FUQUA.

FUQUA stated that MEADOWS (DL 162-109) would not hold any bets

for large amounts where there was a risk of losing heavily,

but would lay off such bets with JOHN ELI STONE.

PCI advised that a Jackson, Mississippl, gambler,

T: J. TILLMAN (DL 162-1), was in Dallas attempting to set up

either a contact for accepting lay-off bets for connections in

Las vegas or to operate as a bookmaker financed by an unknown

Las Vegas group. PCI stated TILLMAN formerly worked for this

same unknown group in Las Vegas and would attempt to obtain

further details which, if obtained, will predicate the initiation

of a new investigation by Dallas.

PCI

FUQUA advised that Oklahoma City gambler GEORGE

EDWARD BARNES (DL 166-66) had been in Dallas for about ten days

in close contact with Dallas hoodlum RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS

(DL 92-213). PCI stated BARNES was attempting to evade service

of a subpoena by a local Oklahoma City Grand Jury which was

presently in session. FUQUA stated that BARNES and MATTHEWS

hang out almost daily at a domino parlor on Collett Street, Dallas,

where they gamble through playing dominos.

Intormation obtained from urs. NABORS, information

concerning BAWCUM and Lt. LEONARD, and information obtained from

PCI FUQUA was orally furnished to

Lt. REVILL and Deputy MORGAN

on 9/7/62.

- 4 -

DocId: 32286527 Page 5

---

## Page 6

DI. 94-55A-Sub

RE: MARION ROBERT RAIT, aka.

AR

(DL 92- 39)

TEXAS

On 9/5/62, DL-170-C (DL 137-566) advised that about

two months ago RAIF contacted CI while en route from Dallas to

RAIF was driving a late model black or dark

attorney in Atlanta for payment of fees.

He also claimed that

he had just "lost my tools".

(It should be noted that RAIF is

suspected of an attempted burglary at Wichita Falls on the night

of 7/4/62.) RAIF gave his Atlanta telephone number to CI as

MA 2-2253. Approximately an hour after RAIF left, JAMES BENNETT

WAAGE, accompanied by JOHN OSCAR LUCK, contacted CI and stated

they were following RAIF back to Atlanta.

The above information was furnished to Lt. REVILL and

Deputy MORGAN on 9/6/62.

An information copy of this airtel 1s being furnished

the Oklahoma City Office in view of the information obtained

concerning GEORGE EDWARD BARNES, which may be of interest to

that office.

An information copy is being furnished Atlanta in

View of the information developed concerning RAIF.

DocId: 32286527

Page 6

=

---

