JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/10/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
“PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10324-10116

NY

97-1792-1054

Document Information

FBI

HQ
NY

03/03/1961
2

FPCC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

11/04/1998

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF NSA

v9.1
Docld:32312367 Page 1


ee

Finer 52-19-56) fo: oO
ao fe ie ~

FBI

ansmi SECRE Date: Mi 961
OA HAS NO OBJECTION Oqumesacez7 arch 3, 1
r it the followipg: i era aT

(Type in plain text or code)

iA INEORMATION
ns V7 a7 [Priority of Method of Mailing)

| Yo: SAC, New York (97-1792)

From: Director, FBI (97-4196) z :

Wael?

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE THRE.
ere

: INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA j Soe
| REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA Dege's aye jee
/ : V5u), CTP
ReBulet to AAG Yeagley 2/11/ eee ° ich wi

| furnished your office.

Ge 3/1/61 CIA advised that June Cob| he original
source ofthe information attributed to NY T- eport of

| 3A Conway 7/13/60. at New York. It is noted that this data was
originally furnished in Legat, Havana, letter 4/12/60 entitled

- "Robert Taber," copies of which were Forwarded to your office on

: 4/21/60. Be)

(Gia has indicated that June Cobb is presently

New York City and has no objection to our contacting her. t is
noted that Cobb contacted your office on 10/5/60 at which time
she implied that FBI had dam er reputation and|that she
subsequently complained to CI we had interviewed one of
her acquaintances and indicated to the acquaintance that Cobb had
been involved in narcotics and abortions, Although we completely
refuted the allegations and determined that the allegations were
based on hostility between Cobb and her acquaintance, there is still |
some question as to whether Cobb would be receptive to 4 interview |
concerning her knowledge of the FPCC and Robert Taber. However,
she does have potential as corroborator of testimony Py oee rles.
Santos Buch as to Cuban Government's subsidization of FPCC

Review the information previoush furnished by Cobb, E
u icularly, the enclosures to Bulet 2/6/61 wherein Co yb furnished.
{Al considerable data concerning FPCC and arrange to interview :
ef’ in detail... No. djrect reference Should be made to the data

she furnished (Cla) her knowledge concerning the various
EPCC leaders Who*visited Cuba should be fully exploited. Since
: fig -/

|

i

|

Sent Via SHOWN QTHERWLSE.
Docld:32312367 Page 2


ny ‘ae

. i) X
vadrtel to SAC, New York ~
Re: FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE
97-4196
fSe5 SECRET

our aim is to produce additional witnesses who can testify
as to the Cuban Government's involvement with the FPCC,

her position as to testifying, openly or otherwise, now or
in the future, should be determined. It is pointed out that
testimony by her that the Cuban Government retained Taber to
start a pro-Cuban group in New York City and that an official
of the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Relations actually hired
Taber to do so could conceivably be used as basis for prosecutive
action against Taber and/or the FPCC when added to the previous
testimony of Buch.

The Bureau feels very strongly concerning potential
of Cobb's interview. However, if she positively refuses
to cooperate with your office and yoy are unat Ss) to accomplish
this satisfactorily, it is possible (that CL + ion her
along: the above lines. it is not be ievedfthat © poe
onduct fy interview as thoroughly as your office~and a request
Ghat ct Je it would be made only as a last resort. Cobb
Should Be contacted as expeditiously as possible.

For your information, (Bureau source 6Jadvised on 2/10/61 C3
that Cuban @-S\Headquarters had dssued instructions that oneCS
Ciianolo Perez and the journalist, Bob Tabbert, (believed to be als
reference to Robert vaber should be putin touch with Cuban
(6-2 officials at(fopes de Collantes, Cuba It was indicated C$ 3

I thdt the tyo were on a(press\trip to theEscambray Mountains C33
i and Cubap(G-2 \officials weré told to give them support in their cs3

i mission.

: )
. The foregoing information fro Bureau Source is being
H furnished for your information only and t not, be utilized
: in a communication prepared for dissemination LA)

REVEWE

ED 3 JFK TASK Ponce
Slomstn, cv eee
iN PART

A CENA

! Docld: 32312367 Page 3
