Tolson

£OPTIONAL FoR NO: 10 a : a / a
: Seek a ae : , Mohr —
UNITED STATES cov ant

Callat

*Conra

Memorandum oe Es

Evans

Malone
Rosen

m,. 70 °: GC, A. Evans pate: 8/14/61 Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

eee \ Tele. Room
From : TT. J. McAndrews heft Gena

SUBJECT: Gannran GAmnantno ; se Z / :
SAMUEL MANNARINO mM ‘ !

AR

The above individuals are targets for early prosecu-
tion under the crash program. Both Mannarinos are notorious *
hoodlums from the Pittsburgh area. ‘

Departmental attorneys in Miami have requested that the ‘

Bureau interview Joseph R. ferola, top jewel thief: and hood:
currently residing in Miami, 2 source o information concer
@ Mannarino:

5D L at ag
The Depart ‘ttorneys have indicated there is

: a possibility that Merola is willing to tell what he knows con-

it cerning the Mannarinos. We have talked to Merola on several
occasions ‘in the past. While he has not been cooperative, the
Bureau has long recognized that if he were willing he could give
voluminous information not only on the Mannarinos but on many
other criminal matters. if

RM

SAs Forsyth and Portella of the Pittsburgh Division =
have in the past interviewed Merola, who has indicated that he
has confidence in these Agents. .Both these Agents are.thoroughly
familiar with all the ramifications; of the Mannarino cases as
well aS other matters about which Merola could be expected to
furnish information. In order to fully develop this potential,
SAS Forsyth and Portella of Pittsburgh have been instructed to
interview Merola:in Miami and develop all information in his
possession. This interview will not require these Agents to ]
away from Pittsburgh more than two ‘days.

cao

S)

Le

ACTION

For information and filing. vo
(40

i

‘copies made
wearrapfog AG-1F TSS
(5) Les

for¥eview at FBIHQ by |
HSCAre<QZew BW requests
(See Bufile #62-117290) ung 14

vor ;
i ‘
og OO a?

i

“SGP 66 AUG 221881

J a Sresieneronessaneteoneraees

Docld:32572452 Page 1

