# docid-32307507

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System.

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES: HQ

124-10292-10210

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-454

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/24/1961

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

02/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

206

DocId: 32307507

Page 1

---

## Page 2

4-42 (Ror. 6-2-61):

DECODED COPY

V

Radio

xx Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans.

Malone

Rosen.

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

DEFERRED

10-24-61

DIRECTOR

5:36 AM RUL.

mistree

FROM SAC, CHICAGO

240520

SAMUEL' M.

"GIANCANA, AKAO, ARO DAILY SUMMARY. RE DAILY

SUMMARY OF OCTOBER

20 LAST PERTAINING TO ANTHONY GIROLAMI BEING

IN CONTACT WITH GIANCANA. GIROLAMI CONTACTED AGAIN OCTOBER 20

LAST BY BUAGERNS RE HIS KNOWLEDGE OF AFFAIRS OF GIANCANA. GIROLANI

NOT QUITE AS LUCID AS LAST CONTACT, DID NOT ADMIT A CLOSE ASSOCIA-

TION TO GIANCANA. CONVERSATION DIRECTED TO VENDING OPERATIONS,

AND CANTEEN SERVICES, AND GIROLAMI VOLUNTEERED THAT HE KNOWS MUCH

ABOUT SUCH OPERATIONS THROUGH HIS GOOD FRIEND, ROBERT PETRONE

OF OASIS DISPENSING COMPANY. NOTED THAT CG 6486-C HAS ADVISED

HEREIN IS U

IN PAST THAT PETRONE CONTACTED GIANCANA RE THE OPERATION OF OASIS,

ALSO ADVISED GIANCANA ABOUT ED JULIUS, IRS AGENT. GIROLAMI WAS

ASKED IF HE HAD ANY PART OF OASIS VENDING, DENIED SAME. HE WAS

ASKED ABOUT SOME OTHER GIANCANA ENTERPRISES AND WAS VAGUE IN

20

RESPONSE, EXCEPT PERTAINING 1O EVANSTON AND RED TOP CAB COMPANIES,

* WHICH HAVE BEEN ALLEGED TO BE BRIBED BY GIANCANA. GIROLAMI WAS

ADAMANT IN STATING THAT GIANCANA HAD NO PART OF THOSE COMPANIES,

O STATING HE HAS KNOWN FRED BARTOLI AND SAM LEVINE FOR MANY YEARS,

DESCRIBING THEM AS HARD WORKING, LEGITIMATE OPERATORS WHO WOULD

CONTAIN

HAVE NO PART OF GIANCANA.

AS A MATTER OF FACT, STATED GIROLAMI,

AN OFFER WAS MADE BY UNIDENTIFIED HOODLUMS SOME

TIME AGO TO BACK

BARTOLI AND LEVINE,

WHICH OFFER WAS TURNED DOWN. FURTHER CONTACTS

ARE CONTEMPLATED WITH GIROLAMI RE HIS KNOWLEDGE OF HOODLUMS,

HOWEVER, IT IS NOT EXPECTED THAT HE WILL BE COMPLETELY COOPERA- W5

TIVE AT THIS TIME.Y

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED:

IS ACT ZL 1968

00°

2 0 196!

be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

DocId: 32307507

Page 2

---

