# docid-32316482

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/25/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10348-10011

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 92-7000-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 04/28/1965

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

ANTHONY PROVENZANO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

PocId: 32316482

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

FD-288 (Rex 8-1-39)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

CRIMINAL INFLUENCE IN

LOCAL 707, INTERNATIONAL

BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS,

NEW YORK, NEW YORK

reams ters Union

REFERENCE

DATE

4/28/65

REPORT MADE BY

RUSSEL F. SULLIVAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/30/64--4/22/65

AR

TYPED BY

Report of SA RUSSEL F. SULLIVAN dated

1/15/65, at NY.

-P-

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU (2)

one copy of an LHM, dated and captioned as above,

Enclosed for the bureau is the original ang

reflecting characterizations of informants utilized

in this report.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

Bureau (92-7000) (EncIs.2)-

2

USA, SDNY

3 - New York (92-2988)

_CC, 'AAG, Criminal Divislob,

ren a rime & acketerine section

DISSEMINATION RECORD O

ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY...

REQUEST RECD..

DATE FWD. ....

HOW FWD. -

BY.

MAY 1 2 1965

U.S. GOVERN

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2000-9

REC-10

MAY

3

1965

EX 412:0

NOT.

PRINTING OFFICE

18-78321-1

Doc1d: 32316482 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-2988

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The investigative period of this report exceeds

90 days so as to include information received from

NY 4310-C, which was not available to the reporting

agent at the time of the 1/15/65 report.

COVER PAGE

_DocId: 32316182

Page

3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-2988

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NY T-1

NY 4318-0

NY T-2

PCI JOSEPH BENNA

NY T-3

PCI GEORGE DONAHUE

NY T-4

Former NK PCI

JOHN LEARY

NY T-5

Former NK PCI

WALLACE O'REILLY

NY T-6

PCI DANIEL JOSEPH

SULLIVAN

NY T-7

NY 5026-PC

NY T-8

Sgt. GERALD LANGTON

CIB, NYCPD

LEADS

Contacting Agent

SA WALTER E. TAYLOR

SA RUSSEL F. SULLIVAN

SA RUSSEL F. SULLIVAN

SA FRANK H. DONNELLY

SA FRANK H. DONNELLY

SA JOHN J. JOYCE

SA MARTIN R. GREALY

SA RUSSEL F. SULLIVAN

NEW YORK

influence exerted in Local 707.

-C*-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32316182 Page 1

---

## Page 5

1: 2-201 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Dote:

Field Office File #:

Title:

Character:

Synopsis:

2 - USA, SDNY

RUSSEL F. SULLIVAN

Office: New York, New York

4/28/65

92-2988

Bureau File #: 92-7000

CRIMINAL INFLUENCE IN LOCAL 707,

INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS,

NEW YORK, NEW YORK

ANTI-RACKETEERING

NY T-l and NY T-2 advised that certain of the

new officials of Local 707 are loyal to ANTHONY TONY

PRO) PROVENZANO.

This will give PROVENZANO added

weight on the New York scene.

NY T-7 advised that

JOE

"RED" TRAINA, who is a member of Local 10r, Is

one

of the major shylocks in NYC.

TRAINA operates through

Kaycor Trucking, NYC.

Interview of GEORGE KAYLOW,

President of Kaycor Trucking, filed to reveal any

pertinent information on illegal activities of TRAINA.

TRAINA, Secretary-Treasurer of Kaycor Trucking, inter-

viewed

and denied any involvement in illegal activities.

Office of Labor, Welfare and Pension Reports, NYC,

presently conducting investigation into 1964

election,

investigation expected to be completed at end of April,

1965.

DETAILS:

DOL

-P - REVIEWED 8Y BUJR TASE FORGE

ON

12/23k7 clat

-RELEASE IN FLAL

LJ

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

This document contans neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It Is the property of the FBI and is loaned lo

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32316182 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NY: 92-2900-

On February 16, March 25; and April 23, 1965,

efforts were made to contact SALVATORE D'EORIO by

SA. SULLIVAN.

Each of these attempted contacts were made at

the Wagon Wheel Diner, 48th Avenue and Van Dam Street,

Long Island. City, New York.

This is the location where

D'EORIO has operated a "shape" and from which a prior

contact was made in the past.

D'EORIO was not observed on any of these occasions

although it was apparent that the "shape" is still being

operated from this diner.

NY T-1, contacted on December 30, 1964, advised

that the recent election of new officials for Local 707,

International Brotherhood or Teamsters (IBI) has resulted

in the placing of men loyal to ANTHONY (TONY PRO) PROVENZANO

in control of this Local.

Informant advised that LOUIS

ALIMENA, the new president, is strictly a

"TONY PRO man"

and in the informant's opinion there will be trouble

ahead as a result of PROVENZANO's influence.

Informant advised that LEO SCHWARTZ, Recording

Secretary, and FRANK CONNOLLY, Secretary-Treasurer,

are the only new officers with whom he is acquainted.

NY T-I was again contacted on April 20, 1965,

and he advised that since the death of CONNIE NOONAN,

consideration has been given to organizing the platform

• DocId: 32316482 Page 6

---

## Page 7

NY: 92-2988

phony deals, for at least the present. Informant stated

that CONNOLLY is the only one really qualified to operate

the union, due to his past experience.

It is COnNOLlY's

opportunity to make himself a big man if he

operates the

union wisely and with "guts" in standing up to any tens.

who try to push him.

Informant felt that CONNOLLY started out wrong

being connected in any way with PROVENZANO, but now

that he is in, he could wholly disassociate himself from

PROVENZANO and get on nis own, which would unite the

union behind him (CONNOLLY) •

NY T-2 again contacted on February 18, 1965,

advised that Mrs. (FNU) GANNON is now the clerk

Local 707, having replaced EDDIE TOMIZEK. TOMIZEK iS

apparently going to work in the office of Local 807,

IBT, which is in the same building.

Informant. further advised that GANNON was

formerly the private secretary of TOM HICKEY (now deceased),

former president of Local 807, IBT. Upon HICKEY's death

GANNON became the secretary to JOHN STRONG, who became

the new president of Local 807 after the death of HICKEY.

Informant further advised that GANNON later went with

Local 707 for several years but left and has been absent

from the labor scene for severa years.

Informant felt

that GANNON will be a valuable asset

to Local 707 with

her knowledge of union affairs.

Informant stated that there have been a lot of

guys who look like "hoods" at the office of Local 707

since the new officials assumed office.

Informant did

not have any specific names but was only commenting on

the looks of the individuals.

Informant further stated that things are quiet

in the office of Local 707 and FRANK CONNOLLY, new

Secretary-Treasurer, appears to be playing a lesser role

than previously anticipated. The new president, LOUIS

ALIMENA appears to be a

strong man in the front

for all

activities, at least in the first months of his

new

position.

4

DocId: 32316482, Page 7

---

