# docid-32306265

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10289-10395

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 145-3269-35

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. BA

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/09/1965

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

CB, EVID, CHECKS, PHOTO COPIES, SHIPPING LABELS, HDW. A/O

HANDPRINTING COMPARISON, FILM, STILL PHOTO

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

06/17/1998

STATUS

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC A/T

DocId: 32306265

Page 1

---

## Page 2

11/5/65

AIR TEL

TO:

FROKI

AIR MAIL

3ЛG, BALTIMORE

(145-56)

SAC, LOS ANGELES (245-723)

•(R)

LOUIS DULIO PASSETTI, Aka;

Lou's Book Store

Baltinore, Maryland

IT OM

00:

Baltimore

FINERSTON

Re Los Angolos

Mertel-to-the-Buroau 11/3/65

CATE

trananitting Photorecord

001103-01 cancollad checks of

chocking account of DANA end JANKI LYNE HURSTON fOI

handwriting and hansprinting comparisons with labels

Obscone saipments to doltimore in April of 1965.

On 11/3/65P01

aleronically advised

SA ROMSR E. YOUNG that trond

isa rocolvad a tolophone

CALL FrOS DANA TAURSION want ins

thro-pos

gons to his rosidenco

to help put tho 13 roola of colorod obscone lilas 11 sequenco so

that s now master nogative could bo nade of this film. This la

the one that thurstol has entitled "ininvited Gueat".

Tho FBI

Laboratory has adviaed that tho participants and tha film haa

not como to cas attention of the FBi in any otaor case.

hat ho agroed to noot with

DALA PUROTON On. 11/4/65

films in soquenco and splicing

must ain in the plaoing of the

aascing and proparind than 101

the now mastor negativo.

of lucson,

WURSTON advised tuat WALTER LOcKAASTHAN

Arisona bud writton hin wanting eigat sample & 1lma

Alter that would bandlo a volume of about 100 rools of filna

at at ino providing they aro all in color.

SASTHAN bas indicatod

to intorrant that tho films ho obteins 15 for outlets In Chicago

and for Tork.

THUnsTon told informant that ho was having on

indivldual fron ono of the color concorna (believed to be ANSCO)

cone to his rosidenco to svaluato the present equipment ko has

and divo an estimate of the cost to convorting to completo

colar developmont and processing.

45-56-178

Baltimore (245-50)

• - Phoants (215-1082 ARO

2 - Houstor

2 = Los Angolos (145-723)

i - San Diogo (445-239120

#BOXED

NEX: (3 Co 137-2576)

$.. (ô)

NOV

1965

FBI - BALTIMORE

145-3269-35

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32306265

Page 2

---

## Page 3

T3 145-723

Porscuror outd toot Thouston told him cost oota

o his daughtsos (both to vermor marriago, ono lo and one 20

years of

ago) hod helpod voltoo, wrap and package his "airlio"

JANKI LYN THURSTON indicated that sho did not boliova

good to have any of tho

Thard stuff" which sho referrad

"" Sorios" around whos the girla voro there.

Pointsons trood over to SA HOMER &. YOURG fun

samplos of the still photos which THuisrou is doaling in

DOB1938

end claims to havo motion ploturo filma of onch of tho iris

which are depictod In thoso sota.

One sot 1S Of JUANITA DALE TENAS

nILauLPS, Ala bottor knowu &g

"Candy Bar" the popular Dallas

prostitute and strippor who appearod in the obs-ono film

entitled "Smart Alac" mado by wYMAN duLlbrAri la DalLas,

I 6520

is 1953 when PHILLIPS

the

sats

oops markines of

Iscates is

the prosent living room couch in URBIONs ros idenco, was

the couch ho moved fron 2230 Caventura u1r010,

LOS ANgOLOS.

to his present residenca. P0:

Sxo10:ac0t0s-1295-a14

ofitho

modols aro idontified by

nane in raussronts roatseless

TWISTON has proclood to prepare and nail tof rest

complote list of hia prosent

"hard coro pornogres

"It 15

to be not chat all of the film packages

furniahod by poliakeorou

ore previously furnished by

OSPiCer DOL SHA DEUL Or CLo Adulnistrative Vico DiVo, Los Angolos

Police Departrent, which film vere solzed by the los Angoles fo

SCHUYLOR was arrested shipping over 600 packages

on 10/14/65/ From LOS Angolas, Calile, to KEM IN MONDE Of

Minnoapolis, Minnesota®

Angolos PD bolevod, that saluti

was obtalning his filins fran GENE and BAROLD ODDEN and had

not identifiod DAllA THURSTOl as

boing SCHlYLaR's source for such

*HOLDER

vista

THURSTON furthor confidod in PCI AkiMons that be

had acquirod some now colored motion ploture filns which

"hard aturr" fron a group that was recently "bursed"

(arrostod by tho polico) and thay sold tais to biu vory abespo

Tha records of DMV Los Angoles rerlects that

unlitornia licenso out dia 1a rogistorod to IA RRI

127 Lyndhurst, Esclonda Hoishta, Califoraja.

(In VIaN Of UPPIR'S boing at THURSTOL'S résidence

at the tuse the PoI was toero,

UPPER is not boing interriowod

at this timo so as not to put

the informant is jopardy in

matter.)

- 3∞

DocId: 32306265

Page 3

---

