# docid-32556710

## Page 1

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

am $ MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN.

Kro. NO. 2

UNITED STATES GOV

INMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM

Tolson

Belmont V

Mohi -

DeLoach -

Casper

Callahan

Felt!

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

SUBJECT:

_Conrad

DATE: November 29, 1965

- REVIEWED B

TUFK TASK FORCE

W. D. Griffith

ON "112/18 20k

Gus

PAlex

Anti-Racketeering

I RELEASE IN FUEL

Ge RELEASE IN PART

EE TOTAL DENIAL

A memorandum

from T. J. McAndrews to Mr. Gale

dated 11/22/65 advised that Gus Alex,

a Chicago hoodlum

who has been banned as an undesirable from entering

Switzerland, has made efforts to have the ban lifted.

Swiss authorities have requested the Bureau,

through

Legat, Bern,

to furnish them with verification of

Alex's identity.

1-1,2

enclosed for examination by the Laboratory were

documents obtained from sources in Switzerland, which were

designated Q] through QcT, and documents obtained from

sources in this country which were designated KoF- =

Examination of these documents,

further describes

on page 2 disclosed that the Alex signatures on specimens G

Qc1, Qc3, Qc4, Qc6, and Qc7 had been prepared by Gus Alex,

FBI#4244200, the writer of specimen Kcl and signatures ons

cards in his identification record.

Significant

similaritles indicate that the Alex signatures on specimens

Qc5 may also have been prepared by Gus Alex.

RECOMMENDATION: That the enclosed documents and the

of the Laboratory examination

be sent to the

result

Criminal Intelligence and Organized Crime Section of! the

Spectel Investigative Division, which will forward them s

to the Legat, Bern.

Enclogures (8tretd to file.

lies

detracket

1 - Mr..

Gale (Mx. Legget.)

: 1

Mr.

Conrad

REG-

Mr Griffith

1 - Mr.

Oberg

925-3182-1120

1A Do

• DEC 20 1965

(CONTINUED - OVER)

5147

DocId: 32556710 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Memorandum to Mr. Conrad

RE:

Gus Alex

Qcl Photocopy of one-page typewritten letter to

Baur PAler

Lac Hotel, Zurich, switzerland, signed

"G. N.

QC2

Photocopy of one-page handwritten letter dated 12/4/-

signed "G. N. Alex

c/o Celano

QC3

Photocopy, of Dolder Grand Hotel registration carde

dated 21/12/63, signed "Alex Gus" and "Dietgardrueger"

4. 3

Qc4 Photograph of pages 2 and 3 of passport of Alex

issued 3/21/63

QC5

Photocopy of registration card No. 83657, in the

name "Gus Alex"

Qc6

QCT

Kcl

Photocopy of Baur au Lac Hotel registration card

dated 5/1/59, in the name "Gus Alex"

Photocopy of Baur au Lac Hotel registration card

dated

/1/58, in the name "Gus Alex"

Five photographs of portions of income tax returns,

four photographs of portions of passport material

and

photocopy of passport application dated 6/29/55 bearing

known handwriting of GUS ALEX

-2-

42-3182-1120

DocId: 32556710

Page

2

---

## Page 3

7-2

RECORDED

11/26/65 sf

Re:

GUS ALEX

ANTI-RACKETEERING

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

NO LAB FILE

Laboratory Work Sheet

File #

92-31870

Lab. #

D-493538

1K

Examination requested by:

Examination requested:

Result of Examination:

Bureau Request

Document

Letter dated 11/22/65

Date received:

11/23/65

Examination by: Oberg ("/26/65

3- Jay sins in intend that the ale ang de agains @ i a

may alon have been prep ts too Alep.

Specimens submitted for examination

Qc1

Photocopy of/typewritten letter ated 10/19/62

Lae Hotel, Zurich, sertzerland,

beginning "Would appreciate you reserving.. and

signed "G. N. Alex"

Qc2

dated 12/41-

Photocopy of one-page handwritten

letter/beginning

"Would you please bee." and signed "G. N. Alex" % Celona Inc.".

QC3

Photocopy of Dolder Grand Hotel registration cards

dated 21/12/63, in the name "Alex Gus" and "Dietgard Fueger"

QC 4

Photograph of pages 2 and 3 of passport of Alek issued 3101/63

Photocopy of

Qc5 /registration card No. 83657, in the name "Gus Alex"

Baur au

Lae Hotel

QC6

Photocopy of/registration card dated 5/1/59, in the

name "Gus Alex"

Bour au Lac. Hotel

QC7

Photocopy of/registration card dated _/1/58, in the

name "Gus Alex"

Page 1

(continued on next page)

92-3182-1120

DocId: 32556710 Page 3

---

