# docid-32289532

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10201-10308

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-586

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

SAC, TP

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 07/27/1962

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LST, ASSOC, RES, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: - 10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32289532 Page 1

45

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

a-l

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

7/27/62

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM:

SAC, TAMPA (92-1) (P)

SANTO

TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

AR

(00: TP)

WEEKLY AIRTEL SUMMARY

ReMM undated weekly airtel summary.

Miami note reference

summary furnishes information from

MM693-C and MM609-C.

Miami note that if report is not to be

submitted by the Miami Office, PCI and informants should be

characterized.

JAMES C. LONGO, associate of subject, observed Tampa

during week of. 8/23-/26/62, and now driving 1962 cream and

red four-door Chevrolet Impala bearing 1962 Florida license

3W-61882. Subject has not been reported with him nor at the

Columbia

Restaurant since AM of #/19/62.

From 8/23-/26/62, 1959 white Chevrolet impalacobserved

subject's residence 2505 Bristol Avenue. Subject's presence

not observed through fisurs, and sources nor informants have

reported his whereabouts through t/26/62.

SA JAMES P. O'NEIL at St. Petersburg, Beach, Florida,

ascertained as of 8/24/62, that

the residence 3610 E1 Contro

where subject was last reported had new carpents placed therein

but subject had no longer been reported there as of 7/24/62.

Bureau

Miami

1 - Tampa

SJL: jod

(6)

(AM)

(92-88 (AM)

REC 2022-2281-586

9 JUL 30 1962

AIRTEL

EX-116

Approyed: A

she Special Agent in Charge

Sent

Per

DocId: 32289532 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

On 7/24 and 26/62, MARIO CAPAZ, PCI (protect) ,

advised subject had no longer been observed nor reported

at

the Columbia Restaurant, however, his close associate

JIMMY LONGO has been at

the restaurant on

a daily basis.

JACK DE LA LANA, Intelligence Unit, Tampa Police

Department, advised 7/24/62, that his sources close to the subject

advise him subject is still reported at St. Petersburg Beach

"wis, or had returned to Miami, Florida.

BASIL SCAGLEONE, brother of NICK SCAGLEONE, advised

NICK no longer in the rackets and NICK has not been in contact

with the TRAFFICANTEs for over three months to his knowledge,

and whereabouts of subject therefore unknown.

Captain ELLIS CLIFTON, Vice Squad, Sheriff's Office,

Tampa, Florida, advised 7/26/62, that his sources

reported

subject was staying on the Gulf

beaches and his exact

whereabouts was unknown unless he had returned to Miami.

CLIFTON said he has worked six straight weeks in a row in

efforts to try and make local numbers cases against SAM and

FRANK TRAFFICANTE as well as AUGUSTINE RRIMO LIZZARA

and that his efforts even with the use of Helicopters to

survey them has been negative to date of 7/26/62.

HERBERI GOLDBURG,

next door neighbor to subject's

Tampa residence, advised 7/26/62, that subject has not been

observed at his

Tampa residence,

but that his wife is home.

No information from her, however, has been elicited as to

subject's

whereabouts and this source was of the opinion subject

returned to Miami.

Efforts to locate subject 7/24/62, through 7/26/62,

through brothers, past associates, relatives, in efforts to

obtain film clips negative at Tampa.

- 2 -

DocId: 32289532 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TP 92-1

LEAD

MIAMI DIVISION

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will furnish Tampa characterizations for informants

MM693-C,

summary.

MM609-C, as well as PCIs set forth weekly airtel

Will maintain contact with SANTIAGO REY, PCI,

who is attempting to ascertain through MARTIN FOX whether

or not 'subject has gambling operations in Tampa, Key West,'

and Jacksonville, Florida, notingg that a source has reported

in the past that

SAM MONDELLO, address unknown, had been

closely associated with the subject indthe past, and may have

been at Key West,

Florida.

It is further noted

that a JOHN

DE SALVO, has been reported by the Jacksonville Office as

having some contacts with the TRAFFICANTE family at Tampa,

and such individuals may be known to PCI REY.

Miami immediately advise Tampa when subject appears

in Miami residence.

Miami endeavor secure film clips of subject when

there and keep Tampa Office advised as soon as clips obtained,

inasmuch as coverage subject's beach residence being secured

in effort to obtain film clips while he may be there in future.

3

DocId: 32289532

Page 4

---

