# docid-32423556

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

7/7/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

SSCIA

157-10014-10168

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

07-M-73

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

SSCIA

REFERENCES TO FBI REVIEW OF TAPES OF OSWALD'S OCT. 1, 1963 MEXICO CITY

CONVERSATION

DATE: 03/05/1976

PAGES:

27

SUBJECTS:

OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, TRAVEL, TRIP TO

MEXICO CITY

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/08/1999

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

CCBOX 354

v9.1

DocId: 32423556

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date : 08/07/95

Page :

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER

157-10014-10168

RECORDS SERIES

:

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

07-M-73

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

SSCIA

FROM

TO

TITLE : REFERENCES TO FBI REVIEW OF TAPES OF OSWALD'S OCT. 1,

1963 MEXICO CITY CONVERSATION

DATE: 03/05/76

PAGES: 27

SUBJECTS : OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, TRAVEL, TRIP TO

MEXICO

CITY

FBI

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/08/99

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : CCBOX 354

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DocId: 32423556

Page 2

---

## Page 3

BOx 354

R 2729

1 of 3

SECRET

J6

' "Page 3

---

## Page 4

R2728

SECRET

March 5, 1976

To :

Senators Schweiker and Hart

From:

Staff

Re:

References to FBI Review of Tapes of Oswald's October 1, 1963

Mexico City Conversation

On February 19, 1976, the staff received a November 23,

1963,

Bureau memorandum which Hoover forwarded to President

Johnson under cover letter of even date explaining that the

memorandum set forth "the results of the Bureau's inquiry into

the

assassination of President Kennedy and background infor-

mation relative to Lee Harvey Oswald."* In relevant part the

memorandum states:

The CIA advised that on October 1, 1963,

an extremely sensitive source had reported

that an individual identified himself as

Lee Oswald,

who contacted the Soviet Embassy

in Mexico City inquiring as to any messages.

Special Agents of this Bureau, who have con-

versed with Oswald in Dallas, Texas, have

observed photographs of the individual referred

to above, and have listened to a recording of

his voice.

These special agents are of the

opinion that the above-referred-to individual

was not Lee Harvey Oswald.

You are aware of the significance of this language. You are

also aware that the stated position of the CIA --as reflected in the

testimony of David Phillips and contemporaneous CIA cables -- has always

been that the actual tade recording of this conversation was erased

sometime in October of 1963.

On February 2,

1976, the Bureau delivered us a copy of a 11/25/63 Legat Cable-

which is attached at Tab, along with the more complete

version that was furnished to us on February 24.. You will note

that the references to the Oswald tapes and their erasure on

page two of the cablegram were deleted from the copy we first

received.

DocId: 32423556 Page 4

---

## Page 5

- 2 -

By letter dated February 19, 1976, we asked the Bureau

to deliver "all materials pertaining to the receipt, analysis,

review and present whereabouts of the voice recording" referred

to on page five of Mr. Hoover's report to the President. The

Bureau's response, dated February 24, 1976, stated, "The re-

cording in question was never in the possession of the FBI and

was not listened

to by FBI agents."* Prior to receipt of this

response the staff met with the agents responsible for its

preparation. The agents then showed us an unexcised copy of

the attached November 23, 1963, teletype from SAC Dallas (Tab)

which advised that "the actual tape from which this transcript

was made has been erased," and the November 25, 1963, cablegram

from Legat to Headquarters which in relevant part reads "Tapes

obtained by [deletion] here erased after two weeks following

making of typewritten transcripts of contents of these tapes.

There appears to be some confusion in that no tapes were taken

to Dallas but only typewritten transcripts supplied by CIA,

the tapes not being available because they had been erased."

(Memorandum attached at Tab.)

The staff submits that the matter is not as simple as the

Bureau asserts. Attached at Tab is a Belmont to Sullivan,

Novem-

ber 23, 1963, memorandum in which Belmont recounts his 11:50 a.m.

telephone conversation with SAC Gordon Shanklin. In the second

paragraph, Belmont

states:

* A copy of said response is attached hereto at Tab.

DocId: 32423556 Page 5

---

## Page 6

- 3 -

Inasmuch as the Dallas agents who listen-

ed to the tape of the conversation allegedly

of Oswald from the [deletion] and examined

the photographs of the visitor (deletion]

and

were of the opinion that neither the

tape nor the photograph pertained to Oswald. . . .

On November 25, 1963--some two days after Dallas cabled the

Bureau that the tapes had been erased--Bureau supervisor

Burt Turner cabled legat stating:

It tapes covering any contacts subject

with Soviet or Cuban embassies available

forward to Bureau for laboratory examination

and analysis together with transcript.

Include tapes previously reviewed Dallas

if they were returned to you:

As noted previously, Legat replied later that day to the effect

that the tapes had been erased.

It is unclear as to how Shanklin learned on November 23,

1963, that the Oswald tape had been erased. CIA documents

reflect that it was not until after 5 p.m. on November 23, 1963,

that Agency headquarters cabled its station in Mexico City

inquiring as to whether the original tapes were available.

David Phillips recalls that this inquiry precipitated CIA sta-

tion's search for the tapes which confirmed the fact that they

had been erased. Agency headquarters was so

informed on November

24, 1963

Neither Gordon Shanklin nor Elbert Rudd [the Special Agent

then assigned to Legat, Mexico, who personally delivered the

alleged Oswald photograph to Dallas on November 22, 19631 recall

ever having

been

aware of a tape recording (alleged or otherwise)

DocId: 32423556 Page 6

---

## Page 7

- 4

of Oswald's voice.*

Shanklin cannot explain the statements

set forth in Belmont's memorandum.

* Telephonic staff interviews.of Shanklin and Rudd, on March

. 4,

1976. Unfortunately, Mr. Belmont

cannot be contacted

as he has

been seriously ill for quite some

time.

DocId: 32423556 Page 7

---

## Page 8

CODE

CABLESRAM

1 -

elmont 181

1 - Rosen

11-25-63

1 - Sullivan

].

-DE Moore

URG ADI

IMMEDIATE

- Branigan

1 - Turn:

TO LEGAl MexiCo cument is prepared in response to your request and is net for disirmi-

on nutside monr Commiltee.

1s use is limited to official proceelings l

FROM DIRECIOR. Eithout the express approval of the FBI .

Commise and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-

LES MARVEL USTAID, IS - R.

INPERATIVE EXPLORE ALL ASPECTS SUBJECT'S CONNECTION AND

CUNTACRO MeT RUSSIANS TO EVALUATE POSGIDILITY RUSSIAN DERECTICN

ASSASSERATION. PROMPTLY CONSULT LOCAL CIA ROPNESENZATIVE AND®

SUCAS SURY ALL INFORATION RE SUBJECT'S TRIP MEXICO SENTENDER-

ОСТОЗЙ, ONE WINE SIX TRES, INCLUDING REFLOD DE BIRY AD DOT,

ReSIDENCES, CORTAGES, EE COTERA. FOLLOW NET DETAILED MIGRANTUI

CIA ALERTED. IF TAPES COVORING ANY CONTACTS SUBJUCE WITH SOVIET

OR CUBAN DEBISSIES AVALABLE FORTRE TO BUREAU FOR LABOR TORY

EXANERATION AND ANALYSIS TOGLITER WITH TRANSCRIPT. INCLUDE

TAPES PREVIOUSLY RAVIDIED DALLAS IF GLIDY WERE RETURNED TO YOU.

SUBMIT RECOIGIENDATIONS AS TO ANY INTERVIENS OR FORTITOR INVESTI-

GATION IN MEXICO TO ESTADLISA OR REFUTE SOVIET

SORRECTION.

SETT: CONN

" vs, 01

deser Parade saison thie Coute thra Coutside l

76-03U

і-

≤ *1

- .

NOV

SENO%

27.1063

FLE

MAN HOLE DIRTY: UNDE

т.!'""!.

52-19

020b0-1

EXCISIONS

TO PRESTAVE CÉVPTOGEAPHIC INTTGRITY

DocId: 32423556 Page 8

---

## Page 9

:..

1 001202081

te 1024001

10..800 15 01. 11180 CAD 100100 21016080KEEAERMНК10

E:1XO CD 1600X16X38 7074 87 130303 2232117CKKK

1:3 12. PopE060 C06 COCORReCTION 06 CO30 120200 TORE180

WO.19 1217 0E1YO06 12601120211101171

w/1DW09 202.07 OUi98G8e WBR72676004

CAINE MEMOG MEAM0, 0NG BOON RACUBGT36 06 1000066 60EKK6 0Y,

CaRaond 0nKO0080S X0 63217860 996068. 20 00A224 39070516 01 02702

POIRLA PASPERRO AND PO02IT MAINTAINEO.

ASCEATAN WENE SUBJECT STAYRD ANONG MEXICO GEORG 12G09 20631317

LOOGING PLACES.

INVESTIGATION HAS ESTABLISHEO SUBJECT DEPARTEO M2X1C0 GUEVO

LAREDO OCTOBER 3 LASTA

INVESTIGATION WAS FARLED TO ESTABLISH 1113

1:7702 DE POST

? 41141814

lis document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

ation outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

ur Commit!ce and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

'el without the express approval of the FBI .

6EX 27 1976

t.Bls

miro ed in order le proreci die Berends

ciprograpid sprint

Wildert

DocId: 32423556 Page 9

--;.

L.

---

## Page 10

'rila:

K...t"

f'.:

!':!:!":

i'isl

iiai.in

•.•:r:s

PRCODED C-КУ

ARAd 103310024M 108420/07027:

t.. *i. -

!i?t'..

felete

Ie.aota

riav :

i:""!

PAOM Lait DEXlCO CiTF

10112 9113

CRiut QudhGrOR HoleLlG nie taat, Chiibthiad Tooithtuic!

LuCT1On AArSOBten dr COBOCCr CH 118 2RA0G CotMigdk

FAALE RU

ALATAE

A!!H

LAkES X

SuHt

DRUEEONA SAGAISEE MENE CRAGGO AFVER YHO LEBRGE MORI0NA

AAtKEN BRENERRRlPRE OF COMTRNCEUE GUSSS TAPESE

1. 19 De E0M 10:06021 T0 TRAT NO THGGC T636 TARGM TO6К2А3

mg ha 0ai7dons cackkestar eecrarad

T0 TAP8S

B2 TE X3 2767 9777733

2330067

•085A 2248

Zamesn!

0442102

Mad 2

Liestia

neesAs

scheen mmr

tEO Zl 1976

F.B 1

DELETIONS INVOLUE

SENSITIVE TECHNIPUE

IN FOREIGN COUNTER -

INTELLIGENCE FIELD.

4

ie::

Doctd: 32423556

Page

10

---

## Page 11

MARAReRRBB3Ad0RA00.0/241

FROM LIGA: 161100 0704

SONE AN

-WRA

14110100 DE CRed GO 194121210017101 806X647T

AAN MEYER% 0606793A 20 LAST GY MEXICAN M03AS217765 08 70612 014

wRooved do Coackd sashd tood 07060 0914111201125424

ann toony aunanomats sand cleared trend toe th

•VOTA A91ACS. SAMUMICO W MaSSaGOOSHA N322 OWN 2AY5ET 690226

AITH SOVIET EXBASSY AND IN A LATER CONTAGE HE MADE AT CUBAN EASIE:

tarat Milorrong the She ONBLAWECTKE NEAd 36676 0102002 X2428

11205 Ch MENACE 12a6688 372v2012600 Qá Mah 026 16à

•aMouth Canno Ca0ss1 20 MH 0 Y31X 731X03/608 Y

A CHOR CHAKR0668 GESTASY 328 ONE? 120110E

AMRASCACOR DURAM WAS. NOT ONLY HIS SECHATARY DUT ALSO MIS M07R5541

G157 OF S70R4 OF DURAN CONOZRMING SUSUECT S YISIT TO MEXICO 113-

LISHED TODAY IN MEXICO CITY NEWSPAPER "EXCELGIORK AID BELLOVEG YO

HAVE SEEM LEAKED DO SONE HIGH MEXICAN GOVERWIENT ORRIORAL: PO89124Y

21 ERRORE 79. 2001 SOLE PURPOSE A SUBJECTS TRIP TO MEXICO WAS TO

REC

ROM

+KB 27 1976

FBI

DELETIONS INVOLVE

SENSITIVE TECHNIQUE

IN FOREIGN COUNTER-

INTELLIGENCE FIEL).

3

'party:

DocId: 32423556 Page 11

---

## Page 12

..c.1)

DaCCORe COPY

stein ..

!:.*

I ACRAM 0 CARGORAM ORADO 0723626

FOR LAOT NECD CUTY

W108& 109

9958S 290.00 43704S TO DO. MATH A66A521040K00060221040

M1Y 1S CHOREOOD FARM D/02298 206012811O10DGE7015

2A2 MORE UP BY NEW COR CENSPAPERS ANO CHO CROAKE DO TOUCES

17i8

FILM MATAONE STEP BEING TORCH MERG TO CIE DOCTAN 00

SURYOTR N9T1YOTIS0 MIER GRAB ALL KEY COINCE 1130184

RACH 20126917 660166 NAVE B660 ALE37210 26010K 123000

01117.

TaNT ARNOR CONS SUGGY COARD CROR ChO:6210017124193

MADe SMOR TOO BAD

DELEING SIOULD CONTACT DEXICAN CONSULATE AND COCATE 02265200100114

SEPTENDER 17 LAST, DATE SUBJEGT ISSUED MIS MENICAN TOURIST CARD.

THERE, 15 RENOTE POSSISILITY SOME OF THESE PERSONS MAY HAVE TRAVELED

TO MEXICO WITH SUBJECT.

JMBASSADOR WERE FEELS SOVIETS MUCH TOO SOPHISTIGATEO TO PARTIC!"

PATE IN DIRECTION OF ASHASSINATION OF FRESIOCAT SE SUSCECT DUT THINKS

C03195

STUPIO ENOUGH TO HAVE PARTIGIPATED IN SUCH DURSCTION EVEN TO

EXTENT OF HIRING SUBJECT.

IF THIS SHOULD BE THE CASER IT WOULD AP

PEAR LIKELY THAT CONTRACT WOULD HAVE BEEN MADE WITH SUBJECT IOU.SC

AND PURPOSE OF MIS TRIP TO NOXICO WAS TO SET LO GETAWAY ROTTER

REC!

NOM

tED 27 1976

FBI

i die into liberter coden

but.

jee in crit in prated too Berter's

do to be disseminatio decle the Buren, l do d220r:l:'

DocId: 32423556

Page 12

---

## Page 13

Sittin'

Tale Haa-a

12X12 0C43.382AM 16008 012000163

-+--

MOREOG 10360 CHY

M8 102÷103

GALOO READ KAUL DE 200000GO DO MAST ALASSE POURER

CArROTE 11S 222302 TO :0ON THE CARD WAG YE3GCU100/011'1

LUCAS DO NESTED TO INSDIATELY FURNESH ANY 1200 DERERRED

16. WHY H166108 MAICH 12027 22013 19 1R610929:::

RECORDE

.i.:::

11-25-63

7:17 AM

1200"

11L

tEd 27 1978

FBI

the merillopes contoined in the chone messest is to be dissartanted outstue the Rareen, it is cratested thee it in celeste

paranor in order in proact the Bureats cryptographie systems

DocId: 32423556

Page 13

---

## Page 14

1.:1.00.910.53)

This document is prepared in response lo your request and is not for dissemis

nation nutside your Committee.

Its use is limited to official moceeriars !!

your Committre and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized verson

nel without the express approval of the EBl.

P Y

Tried

3:: 211

..

rier

Callies

11ett

00A3122AM LEADIS

Ga 2

11-23-63

7:23 PM CST EEA

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC DALLAS

232220

ISSASSIMATION OF PRESIDENT JOAN FA KENNEDY.

RE TELEPHONIG

ARQUEST OF MR. MALLEY.

SET FORTH NEREINAFTER IS TRANSCRIPT OF CONVERSATION

RECEIVSO BY LEGAT MEXICO FROM CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE WHICH

IS CLASSIFIRD TOP SECRET. IT SHOULD GE NOTED. THAT ISE

ACTY TAPE FROM WHICH THIS TRANSCRIPT HAS MADE 445,2834

ERASED

DELETIONS

INVOLVE

SENSITIVE

TECHNIQUE

IN FOREIER

COUNTER-

INTELLIEE,

iCE

FIELD,

Lia:

tkd :7 1916

FBI

DocId: 32423556

Page 14

---

## Page 15

This du

nent is prepared in response to your . quest and is not for diskomf

es limited to official proceedings. bu

UNITED SEATs cationte and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized pers. -

Memorantho

one ruthout the express approva of the rol.

Mir. Tolson

DATE: Novenwar 24. 1963

Palorete

tir!.

Solitar

Turn!

Tel. toss.

FROM : Mi. Belmonicy

ASSASS NATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN I. KENNEDY

NOVEMBER 22, 1953

DALLAS, TEXAS

nation

10319

This document is

Com,.

prepare

Its nise

"n response

At 11:50 a. 1n., I called SAC Shanklin at Dallas and

suggested thac in view of the importance of determining whether the

subject Oswaid, took a trip into Mexico and was in touch with the

Cuban and Soviet Embassies in Mexico City, we should altempt to

check the entry points at the inexican border to determine whether

there is a record of his travel.

I pointed out that

he said he was unable to remain over fifteen days in Mexico

due to Marionn restrictions and would have to use his real name if ha

¿ went back. Dalius will see that this check is made at the border.

your request

and is not for

dissemi-

Inasmuch as the Dallas Agents who listened to the tape

of the conversation allegedly of Oswald from the that

and examined the photographs of the

visitor&

my and were of the opinion that neither

the lape nor the photograph pertained to Oswald, I requested shanklin

Ito immediately send a photograph of Oswald to our Legal Attache.

This will be done by Agent Rudd who is returning to Mexico City by air.

at in ilexico should check the photographs of Oswald against visitors

ato see if they can identify him.

/Further, rest should altarpi to identity the photograph of Pestla

to the dead

#On October 1, 1963, inasmuch as he may have

been a messanger or associate of Oswald, Particularly, they should try

to see if he is an em ployee of the Cuban Embassy.

Pelative to the Post Olfice box in Dallas to which the rile

was shipped from Chicago, I told Shanklin to be sure that the applicatien

for the box ond any other correspondence dealing with the box was

secured from the Post Cffice Department and sent in here for hand writing

examination to further tie it in lo Oswald.

Л

1 - Mr. Mohr

REC- 54

1=4 20 1916

1. - Mr. Conrad

1 - Mr. Sullivan

(50

DocId: 32423556

Page 15

INVOLVE

SENSITIVE

TECHNIQUI

IN FOREIGN

COUNTER-I

INTELLIGEN

FIELD.

в. ..-3.

---

## Page 16

Tas President

The White House

Hashingtos, d. c. 20501

ly dear Mir. Prusidont:

Thare are unriooed the rusalis choa.

inquiry Into the nassociandon oi Froad dect.dona

1, benassy and background intor matica rsictive

Arcitional Iformation with respect deli

to this saatter will be furnished do you wher

available.

and to

respecially sabmitted,

Enclosure

REG- 107,

Tolson

soleront

Flesha das st/magin

3

+5-109640433

2: 000 2:960

DEE

Matte

1-19-55

I-Looch

ünlo

Magen

illivan

T,.

T:.

Trie. Ront:

Gundy

This document is nepaord in response to you request and is not for dissemi-

A radis limited to deal proceegs lou

=0 4 13009 conna coal the content may not he disclosed to unauthorized persoi

MAIL ROOM EULOTY

celet ue dess approval of the FBl .

DocId: 32423556

Page 16

---

## Page 17

November 23, 1903

ASSABSINATION OF PRASIDENE JOHN F. KENNEDY

BALLAS, TEXAS, NOVEMBOR 22, 1933

130n

• iront

lithen

"Loach

• 178

1110

Miltran

:101

le. Pron

:Indy

President John F. Kennedy was Shot cod killed by an

unknown assailant at approximately 12:30 p.m., November 22, 1933,

In bales, ce2aS. InvestgaGon was immediately lassies in 2i1

effort to identify and apprehend the person respcasible for this

assassination.

at approximately 2:00 p.n., irformation was received

that a suspicious person had entered the Teras Theater which is

"located aboui siz tenths oi a mile from the tour bundred block of

Dazi 10th Street in Dallas Where d. D. Tippito, a Dallas Police

Department patrolman had been shot and filled about 1:15 p. 2.

Dificers di the Dallas Police Dopartient and F21 Agents converged

on the theater and ions into cubiody ide hurvey Oswald who restated

arrest and attempted to fire a. 38 caliber revolver which was talien

irom his person.

State complaints were filed on November 22, 1993,

charging Oswald with the murder of President Kennedy and

Patrolman Tippitt.

Investigation has establisned that Oswald was employes

at the Tezas School Book Depository which has been identiried as the

building irom which the fatal shots were fired at the Presidort. A.

fellow employee siated he took Oswald to work on the morning of November 22,

Rovember 28,

1953, at which time Oswald was carrying a package a sufficient length

to contain a disassembled rifle and which Oswald said consisted of

curtain rous. Oswald was observed on the fifth iloor of the builling in

which he mas employed at approximataly 11:59 2. m., Novembei 24,

1503.

Corald was again coseived inside the building Shortly aiter

tie shooting but could not ba famed thereafter. Another fellow empluyae

stuced shots vere irad" right orr he dadd maile this aployee was

watching the car cecupied by residant tendedg passing in front oi 120 .-

building. A witness to the degoting staied that the sois were fired by

_FDT:LS

erd the co tend me! mot, b: disclosed to undutiorized person-

DocId: 32423556 Page 17

---

## Page 18

.!.

Assassination of President Join f. Keanouy

a white man from a window on the sisth iloor of the building in which

Oswaid was employed. This withess later sciected Oswald in a line-

up as the person who resemoled the individual he observed fire the

rifle from the window. The witness could not make a positive

identification.

Mrs. Earlene Roberts, 1026 Mouth Beckley Street in

Dallas, stated Oswald, using the name of O. E. Lee, had lived at

her residence since October 14, 1953, and at about 1:00 p. tr.,

Novamber 22, 1963, came to her residence, picted up a jacket and

leit hurriedly.

A 6.5 caliber Italian caroine rifle with a lour-power scope

was found on the sixth floor of the building in which Corald was employed

and from which the shots at the Prosident were fired. Investigation by

our Chicago Office has revealed that a weapon of this description and

identical serial number wes sold to one A. Midell, Post Office Bos 2915,

Dallas, Texas, on March 23, 1963, for $21.45.

This Post Citice sox

at that time was rented by Mrs. Lee a. Osvald, balieved to be the

mother oi suspect. Oswald, at the time of his arrest, hal in his

possession a Selective Service card in the name of Alex Hidell. The

recovered rifle as well as the. 38 caliber revolver taken from Oswald,

were immediately brought to the FBI Laborajory for examination.

It was determined that a bullet found on one of the siretchers

at the hospital following the admittance of President Kennedy had been

fired from the rifle referred to acove.

Examination also identified

two bullet fragments found in the Presidential car as having been,

fired from this same weapon. Other examinations in the fBi

Laboratory are continuing.

A brown paper bag possibly used to carry the rifle was found

near the window on the sixth floor of the building from which the shots

were fired. A latent fingerprint developed on this bag by the fBI

Identification Division was identified with the left index finger impression

of Lee Harvey Oswald.

DocId: 32423556

Page 18

---

## Page 19

;.

Assassination of President Jona F. Lenedy

With respect to baciground information concerning Oswald, his

Dirtn date has been verified ai New Orleans, Loulstand, as Ostober 13,

1930. He attended high school at Fort Worth, Texas, and according to

records of the Office of Naval Intelligence, enlisted in the United States

Marine Corps at Dallas, Taras, on iciober 24, 1053, for 2 three-year

ker. He was relensed to inactire duty on September 11, 1959, but his

military obligation continued until Decemcer 8, 1903.

According to information received from the state Department,

he indieated to the American Embassy in Moscoy On October 31, 1953,

that he wished to renounce his American citizenship. De claimed at the

time tbat he had been a radar operator in the Marine Cores and had told

Soviet officials that it he were granted Soviet citizenship, be would Like

known information concerning the Marine Corps, which was in his

possession. On this occasion he declared, "I am a Marxist. " The

United Press on Noveraber 15, 1053, reportod that Goriet authorities

had raised to grant Obvald Soviet citizenshio, but would permit him to

live in Russia as & resident alien.

Cifice di Naval Intelligence repoxted that Oawaid had been

undesirably discharged from the Ninrine Corps Reserve On August 17,

1360.

On January 30, 1951, Oswald corresponded with the then

Secratary of the Navy John B. Connally, with respect io his undesirable

discharge requesting that appropriate action de taken to change his status

and indicading be intended to retirn to this country. This was followed

by a letter dated March 33, 1952, dracted to Assistant Director of

Personnei, Brigadier General Tompkins, United States Marine Corps,

at which time he made a similar complaint.

Information has likewise been received irom the Office of

Senator John C. Tower (Repudlican - Texas) that during 1961 Oswald

had requested that Senator Towes intercede in his benni with Soriet

authorities, so tant they woald alloy him to retary to the United States.

According to injormadon received trom the State Depart rect

on May 17, 1962, Oswald and his wile, a doriet crazea, had been granten

exit permits to leave Russia, and the State Department had given approval

for their travel to the United Statas accompanied by an infant child.

FLI

DocId: 32423556

Page 19

L

---

## Page 20

Assassination oi President John i. Kennedy

Oswald was interviewed by Special Agents of this Bureat at

Fort Worth, Texas, on June 23, 1952, at which time he was curt, sulien

and arrogant. • He declined to answer questions as to why he made the

trip to Russia or cis experiences while there. He indicated that he had

been empioyed as a sheet metal worler in a television factory and admired

the Russian form of Government. Ze claimed familiarity with the theories

of Karl vars, but denied being a member of the Communist Party or having

renounced his United Statas citizenshio. According to Oswald, the Soviets

never attempted to dotain information from him nor did he make any deals

with the Soviets in order to d'otain permission to return to the United States.

lie disclaimed any artiliation with Soviet intelligence.

Upon reinterview on August 16, 1962, he acknowledged recenily

visiting the soviet Embassy in Washingion, D. C., sui indicared his visit

was solely to register his wife's current address as required by Soviet law.

He again denied requesting revocation of his United Staies citizenship or

allegiance to the Soviet Government.

According to information developed by this Bureal, Oswald was

arrested on August

g, 1963, for disturbing the peace in New Orleans,

Louisiana, as 3 result of distributing a pamphlet for an organization known

as "Fair Play for Cuba." He pleaded guilty and elected to pay a fewof $10.

Oswald was interviewed on August 10, 1962, at which time he

indicated he was unemployed and had been in New Orleans for approximately

four months.

While there he read literature distributed by the Fair Play

for Cuba Committee which he considered not to be communist dominated

or controlled. He corresponder with the Committee at 799 Eroadway,

New York City, and paid a 55. 00 membership fee. he received a

membership card in the New Orleans chapter dated June 6, 1963, signed

A. J. Hidell.

The Fair Play for Cuba Committee is a pro-Castro organization

founded during the Suring di 1960, whose function is to propagandize the

•Castro regime.

The Central Intelligence Agency auvised that on Ociocer 1, 1963,

an extremely sensitive source had reported that an individual identified

himsell as Lee Oswald, who contacted the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City

DocId: 32423556 Page 20

---

## Page 21

for cautio;

Assassination of President John . Kennedy

Inquiring as to any messages. Special Agents of this Bureau, who have

conversed with Oswald in Dallas, Texas, hava deserved photographs of the

incividual reierred to above and have listenad to a scording of his voice.

These Special Agents ara of the opinion that the above-referred-to indivicuad

was not Lee Harvey Oswald.

A highly conildential source ci this Bureau advised that an

Individual identlying himself as Oswald on Noyember 13, 1963, was in

contact with the Soviet Embassy In Washington, D. C., at which time he

raierred to a recent meeting with Comrade Kostia at the Soviet Imbassy in

Mexico City. This individual indicated thai he originally intended to visit the

Embassy in Havane, Cuba, where be would have had time to complate his

business, but that he had been unabla to do so.

He furnished his address as

Eox 625, Dallas, Taras, and claimed to be the husband of Marina Nikolsamna

Oswald, & Soviet cilizen and father ci Audrey Marina Oswald, born

Cotober 20, 1963, at Dalias, Taras.

Oswald during previoua intar views with FBI Agenis clairaed i0

Laze married his mife, Marina Nikoleuna Oswald, nea Pausekora, at

Mins, Russia, on April do, 150. melkewise claimed an American

passport, numoer 1092520,

issued at New Orleans, Louisiane, on June 25,

1983, for proposed travel of three months to one yez as a tourist to lingland,

France, Germany, Holland, USS?, Finland, Italy, and Poland, He indleated

an intention to depart from New Orleans during the latter pari of 1963.

Additional information developed by this Bureau indicated one

Lee Oswald during September, 1962, was a subscriber to "The Worker"

an east coast communist newspaper.

11:1

DocId: 32423556

Page

21

---

## Page 22

Memorandun to Mi. Tolson

I called Legat Anderson at Mexico City at 12:40 p.m.

and acivised him that Agent Rudd was bringing back the photographs

oi oswald and that he should have s make the checks to see if they could

identity Oswaid's photograph and further identify the photograph of the

vecatan oi October 1. I also told Anderson to be sure that hotels, eic.

were chicked in Mexico City for possible registration of Oswald

under nis true name or any of his aliases. Anderson said this is

i being dons.

DELETIONS INVOLVE

SENSITIVE TECHNIQUE

IN FOREIGN COUNTER-

INTELLIGENCE FIELD.

N2:

Juil

-? -

+LB 27 1976

FBI

"*".

DocId: 32423556

Page

22

---

## Page 23

i-d 11161

Belmont

Mohr =

Casper

Callahon .

-oprac

- Loach

Evans

Gole -

DECODED COPY

GRAM XX CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

I TELETYPE

Tavel

Troller.

Tele. room

Holmes

Gandy =

VE " URGENT

TO LI. RECTOR.

FEMA LEGAT MEXICO CITY

11-25-63

NO. 182 AND 183

LLE PARVEY OSWALD, IS - R.

REBUCAS TODAY. FOLLOWING SUMMARY SUBMITTED IN ACCORDANCE IN-

STRUCTICNS THEREIN.

SUBJECT ENTERED MEXICO AT NUEVO LAREDO SEPTEMBER 26 LAST, USING

MEXICAN 15 DAY TOURIST CARD ISSUED SEPTEMBER 17 LAST BY MEXICAN

CONSULATE GENERAL NEW ORLEANS.

MEXICAN IMMIGRATION INSPECTOR WHO ADMITTED SUBJECT TO MEXICO

SEPTEMBER 26 INTERVIEWED TE DAY BY LAREDO RESIDENT AGENT: INSPECTOR

HAD NO INJEPENDENT RECOLLE TION BUT THOUGHT SUBJECT MAY HAVE BEEN IN

CO IPANY OF YOUNG AMERICAN DUPLE. .

EXHAUSTIVE SEARCH OF RECORDS

ISCLOSED ONLY ONE YOUNG '¡ERICAN COUPLE WHOSE ENTRY MAY HAVE COIN-

CIDED WITH THAT OF SUBJECT.

: INTERVIEW OF THIS COUPLE, BILL AND

ELMINE ALLEN OF MIAMI, HE BEEN REQUESTED OF MIAMI BY SAN ANTONIO.

•CONTIFIJING SEARCH OF 1: CAL TRANSPORTATION RECORDS TO DATE HAS

FAILED TO DISCLOSE METHO OF TRAVEL UTILIZED BY SUBJECT TO PROCEED

FRON: UELO LAREDO TO MEX iO CITY, IT BEING NOTED THESE RECORDS ARE

POCRI' PREPARED AND FODT Y MAINTAINED.

DISCREET INVESTIGATI: I UNDERWAY THROUGH SOURCES AND CONTACTS TO

ASCE: TAIII ¡HERE SUBJECT STAYED AMONG MEXICO CITY'S 1,600 POSSIBLE.

LODGING PLACES.

1! 'ESTIGATION HAS E: ABLISHED SUBJECT DEPARTED MEXICO NUEVO

LAFE O OCTOBER 3 LAST. INVESTIGATION HAS FAILED TO ESTAULISH HIS

METHOD OF TRAVEL FROM EXICO CITY TO NUEVO LAREDO AND MEXICAN IM-

To 12 5 06.

FOR ME CAdC:02

Wettesterd

9i7

= DEC 30 1963

If the i in igence contained in the ab:..

message is to be dissuminated outside the Bureau, it is sussested that it be suitably

paraphri:. l'in order to protect the Be:

l's crycto graphic systems.

---

## Page 24

4-3 (He'°

•17-:3)

DECODED COPY

G..AM XX CABLEGRAM O RADIO

TELETYPE

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper.

Callahan

Conred.

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale -

Rosen.

Sullivan.

Tavel -

Troller.

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gondy =

L.

TWO

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY

NO. 182 & 183

MI SRITION! INSPECTOR HANDLING HIS EXIT, INTERVIEWED TODAY BY LAREDO

Ri

JAD 1:0 RECOLLECTION WHATSOEVER OF SUBJECT OR HIS MEANS OF TRAVEL

THIRD AGENCY INFORMATION

EXCISIONS PER 3RD AGENCY REQUEST

TREET TO

2

If the

paraphri

fence cortained in the aher:

message is lo be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

in ordir in protect the Bur.

'a cryptographic sastes.

DocId: 32423556

Page

24

---

## Page 25

4-3 (Rel:. 4017-63)

DECODED COPY

DAIRGRAM

xx CABLEGRAM ORADIO

O TELETYPE

Belmont -

Mohr

Casper

Callah.in -

-onron →

DeLanch.

Evaris

Gole.

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel

Troiter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

THIRD AGENCY INFORMATION

SILVIATIRADO DE DURAN WHO TS A MEXICAN CITIZEN EMPLOYEE OF CUBAN

EMBASSY, HERE AND IDENTICAL WITH: SILVIA DURAN, ABOVE, WAS INTERVIEWED

EXTENSIVELY NGVEMBER 23 LAST BY MEXICAN AUTHORITIES OF THEIR OWN

VOLITION. SHE IDENTIFIED OSWALD FROM PRESS PHOTOS AS PERSON VIO

CALLED AT CUBAN EMBASSY HERE LATE SEPTEMBER OR EARLY OCTOBER TO

APPLY FOR A CUBAN TRANSIT VISA, STATING HE HAD A RUSSIAN WIFE AND

DESIRED TO RETURN TO SOVIET UNION: VIA CUBA: DURAN CLAIMED SUBJECT

IN POSSESSION OF AMERICAN PASSPORT WHICH WAS EXAMINED BY HER TO

ASCERTAIN WHETHER IT CONTAINED SOVIET VISA. SHE SAID PASSPORT DID

NOT CONTAIN SUCH A VISA AND SHE ADVISED SUBJECT HE WOULD HAVE TO

OBTAIN A SOVIET VISA BEFORE HE COULD BE ISSUED CUBAN! TRANSIT VISA.

SHE STATED SUBJECT HAD CONSIDERABLE ARGUMENT WITH HER AND CUBAN

CONSUL EUSEBIO AZCUE OVER THIS MATTER. SHE PUT SUSJECT IN TOUCH

i WITH SOVIET EMBASSY AND IN A LATER CONTACT HE MADE AT CUBAN EMBASSY

WHE TOLD THEM HE HAD BEEN UNSUCCESSFUL IN OBTAINING SOVIET VISA:

ACCORDING TO CIA, SILVIA DURAN IS A COMMUNIST AND DURING TIME

CARLOS LECHUGA, PRESENT CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO UN, SERVED HERE AS CUBAN

AMBASSADOR DURAN WAS NOT ONLY HIS SECRETARY BUT ALSO HIS MISTRESS.

GIST OF STORY OF DURAN; CONCERNING SUBJECT'S VISIT TO MEXICO PUB-

LISHED TODAY IN MEXICO CITY NEWSPAPER "EXCELSIOR" AND BELIEVED TO

HAVE BEEN LEAKED BY SOME HIGH MEXICAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL, POSSIBLY

IN EFFORT TO SHOW SOLE PURPOSE OF SUBJECT'S TRIP TO MEXICO WAS TO

Il the intellininee contained in the abnue messare is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is subgested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to product the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32423556

Page

25

---

## Page 26

Belinant

Mohs

Casing

Coliahon

Conind.

i.vens -

Gule -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Teir. Room

Hlola.t's

Gandy :

DECODED COPY

-

DAIRGRAM XX CABLEGRAM O RADIO

I TELETYPE

......

PAGE FOUR

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY

NO. 182

& 183

OBTAIN VISAS AND HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

KENNEDY. IT IS UNDERSTOOD FROM EMBASSY SOURCES THAT THIS STORY HAS

BEEN PICKED UP BY NEW YORK NEWSPAPERS AND WILL PROBABLY BE PUBLIONED

THEPE TOMORRO!.

EVERY AYAILABLE STEP BEING TAKEN HERE TO FILL IN DETAILS OF

SUBJECT'S ACTIVITIES WHILE HERE.

ALL KEY CONTACTS IN POLICE AND

MEXICAN GOVERIIMENT AGENCIES HAVE BEEN ALERTED TO IMMÉDIATELY REPORT

ANY INFO ALONG THESE LINES THEY MAY RECEIVE AS RESULT OF PUSLICITY

GIVEN SUBJECT.

IF NOT ALREADY DONE SUGGEST BUREAU CHECK STATE DEPARTMENT RECORDS

TO DETERMINE WHETHER NEW PASSPORT. ISSUED TO SUBJECT SINCE HIS RETURN

FROM RUSSIA IN 1952 SINCE IT IS BELIEVED PASSPORT ISSUED TO MIN I$

ISCOW VALID ONLY FOR RETURN U.S. IT

1S BELIEVED WHEREASOUTS OF 1019

LATTER PASSPORT SHOULD ALSO BE ASCERTAINED...IF NOT ALREADY DONE: NEW

ORLEANS SHOULD CONTACT MEXICAN CONSULATE AND OBTAIN NAMES AND IDENTI-

TIES OF PERSONS WHO SECURED MEXICAN TOURIST CARDS THERE UN

SEPTEMBER

17 LAST, DATE SUBJECT

•ISSUED HIS MEXICAN TOURIST CARD.

THERE IS REMOTE POSSIBILITY SOME OF THESE PERSONS MAY HAVE TRAVELED

TO MEXICO WITH SUBJECT.

AMBASSADOR HERE FEELS SOVIETS MUCH.TOO SOPHISTICATED TO PARTICI

PATE. IN DIRECTION OF=ASSASSINATION: OF PRESIDENT BY SUEJECT BUT THINKS

CUBANS_STUPID ENOUGH TO HAVE PARTIGIPATED IN SUCH DIRECTION EVEN TO

EXTENT OF HIRING SUBJECT. IF THIS SHOULD BE THE CASE, IT WOULD AP-

PEAR LIKELY THAT-CONTRACT WOULD HAVE BEEN MADE WITH SURJECT IN U.S.

AND PURPOSE OF HIS TRIP TO MEXICO WAS TO SET UP GETAWAY ROUTE.

If the insolligence contained in the aboue message is to be disseminaled outside the Buremn, it is sugbisted that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 3:

---

## Page 27

'I fRev. 4-17-63)

Tolson =

Belmont -

Mohi -i-

Casper.

Cullit an -

Contad -

DeLosch -

Evans -

Gole

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Reo:

Holmes -

Candy =

DECODED COPY

DAIRGRAM 88 CABLEGRAM ORADIO CO TELETYPE

PAGE FIVE •

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY

NO. 182 & 133

BUREAU MAY DESIRE TO GIVE CONSIDERATION TO POLLING ALL CUBAN SOURCES

IN U.S. IN EFFORT CONFIRM OR REFUTE THIS THEORY.

DETAILED MEMO WILL BE SUBMITTED IN FIRST AVAILALE POUCH CH

NOVEMBER 28 NEXT. COPY OF MEXICAN TOURIST CARD iSSUED SUBJECT WILL

BE FORWARDED AT SAME TIME FOR POSSIBLE COMPARISON OF SIGNATURE ON

THIS CARD WITH KNOWN SIGNATURE OF SUBJECT IN ORDER TO DEFTILITELY

¡ESTABLISH HE WAS PERSON TO WHOM THE CARD WAS ISSUED IN HIS NAME IN

NEW ORLEANS.

BUREAU REQUESTED TO IMMEDIATELY FURNISH ANY INFO DEVELOPED IN

U.S. INVESTIGATION WHICH WOULD SERVE AS LEADS TO VERIFY SUBJECT'S

•CTIVITIES HERE, INCLUDING ANY LONG. DISTANCE CALLS MADE TO WIFE OR

RELATIVES BY SUBJECT WHILE HERE.:

CLARK D. ANDERSON

ENT

RECEIVED:

11-26-03

Wido

7:17 AM

2-7H

Dips ster

BRD COME DRONETAN

Hot desira

Prete

+.F.

66

is surestes that it be suitably

---

## Page 28

195=1715.94

80I:4101420

UNITIO STATES GOVERAMENT

Mentorandim

F1a3

FILLY:

SAC SaNGIN

DATE:: 21/22/63

anefstone to tha Dixoctor asthout savited tht

ra unvo lo'que fito pructically all 1io

Autorontos frat.

Or trIp to Horico

oreopt the rect tont on had socured

Exed Ankarsation

that this indirloual

vory probably crited fda

Massagi

290202-04

Manses

8162 452

zil.

for, s

trangeript of the call,-

transged

aS'ELL co pictures; and 6A:

ELDOM RUDO A5 EIyAnS Up with a Raval Actrobe on a Dea

атлАсдОволий

though nio would probably bo contag su de love Floid.

DELETIONS INVOLVE

SENSITIVE TELINIQUE

INFOREIGN. COUNTER-

INTELLiGENCE FIELD:

Dallas

NGSiatt

(3)5

50753

RONI

N3 1976

its

ument is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

tion

steide vour Committee,

Its use is timited to official proceccings by.

ur Commitice and the content may not be diselosed to unauthorized person.

l without the express approval of the FBI:

59-13-104

SANGED

12l2a2

NOV 2212

121m CHLE

DocId: 32423556

Page 28

---

## Page 29

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

II-C-3(FBI) -Da

FEB 2 7 1976

Honorable Frank Church, Chairman

United States Senate Select Committee

on Intelligence Activities

Washington, D. C.

20510

Dear Senator Church:

Iransmitted

herewith is a memorandum with enclosures

prepared by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in response

request of February 19, 1976, from

Mr. Paul Wallach

of your Committee

staff seeking delivery of all Bureau

materials pertaining to a "voice recording" referred to in

Report to

the President from Director Hoover dated

November 23, 1963.

Sincerely,

Mind & Shekin

MICHAEL E. SHAHEEN, JR.

Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination

F6& 22 1976

FBI

17n.11h

bert

---

## Page 30

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON. D.C.

20535

62-116395

February 27, 1976

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL

OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT

TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Reference is made to the February 19, 1976, letter

of the SSC containing requests for material from the FBI.

Delivered herewith is material responsive to that

letter pertaining. to a voice recording referred to on page

five of an FBI report to the President of the United States,

dated November

• 23, 1963, concerning the assassination of

President John F. Kennedy•

As was discussed with SSC Staff Member Paul Wallach

on February 24, 1976, the recording in question was never in

FBI and was not listened to by FBI

Agents.

One item reviewed by Mr. Wallach at FBI Headquarters

on February 24, 1976, is not being forwarded with this response

at the request of the originating agency. Mr. Wallach was advised

on February 25, 1976, that the Legal Attache, Mexico City,

is forwarding to FBI Headquarters an additional document

pertinent to this inquiry. This document will be furnished

to the SSC upon receipt.

In answer to personal contact and telephone requests

of Mr. Wallach, the individual who prepared the previously

mentioned November 23, 1963, report was Fletcher D. Thompson.

The handwritten initials at the bottom of page 5 of

Legal Attache, Mexico City, cablegram of November 25, 1963,

are possibly those of Richard D. Cotter. Both are now

retired from the FBI.

i A 1? : 1976

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation nutside your Committee.

Its ase is limited to neficial minerceings !!!

your Commire aul the coatent may not le disclose in martiaried person.

nel mithon the capress

renal of the Fit .

19,0197%

---

