JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

5/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10216-10362
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2914-1ST NR 56
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: - FBI
FROM: SAC, PH
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: = 12/05/1958
PAGES: 8
SUBJECTS :
GM, ASSOC, RECORDS CHECK, PHOTO, BKG
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/14/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

v9.1

| Docla:32296086 Page 1


bye a at : !
Cc A

- OFFICE MEMORANDUM UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
i
: DATE: 12/5/58 ‘
TO: . DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2918 {
92-2914
i

FROM: SAC, .PHILADELPHTA (92-558)
SUBJECT: SAMUEL |ARINO, was. ; H
b GABRIEV@HANNARINO, was. '
ANT“. -RACKETEERING

P sbur;

Re Pittsburgh airtel to Bureau, 10/29/58 and Pitts-
burgh airtel to Philadelphia, 10/24/58.

Based on information set out in reairtel 10/29/58,
investigation was conducted in Franklin, Fulton, and Adams
Counties in effort to locate and identify the "hunting lodge"
of the subject.

As a matter of information from personal knowledge
of SA RICHARD H, GRABHAM, RA at Chambersburg, Pa., the in- —o /
formation furnished by the informant that this hunting lodge ———
is believed to be located within a fifteen minute drive of”
Hagerstown, Md., does not coincide with the description of the
land as being within a densely wooded area. Traveling by
automobile from Hagerstown to the following named hunting
areas in Pennsylvania, which will be later mentioned, would
approximate the following time allowing for average speed:

6 - Bureau

3.- 92-2918 t

30-92-2914 :

6 - Pittsburgh :

2- 28-286 i

2 - 92-23 ee /

t= 92-226 192-ad/ Y |

1 - BT7-68 NOT RFCORDED |

1 - Baltimore (Info. ) (Bne1. 1) 475 DEC 18 1956 |
2 - Philadelphia (92-558) -

RHG: FPK ete ene: i

(15)

| 86 UAN

V

ORIGINAL FuED IN GZ? 2O/E CP

i
| Docld: 32296086 Page 2

