# docid-32304468

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10286-10098

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-30067-139

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

KEHE, WILBERT H.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 03/27/1962

PAGES: 13

SUBJECTS :

JOP, ASSOC AND REL, EMP, BKG, TRA, CP ACT,

KHRUSHCHEV, RETURN TO US

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32304468

Page

1

14

---

## Page 2

8(Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INV

TIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

SAN FRANCISCO

TITLE OF CASE

JOHN ORION PITTMAN

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

SAN FRANCISCO

DATE

3/27/62

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/1/62 - 3/21/62

REPORT MADE BY

SA WILBERT H. KEHE

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - C

1041316

oft

ATT INFORMATION CONTAIRED

HERBIN IS UNCIASSTFIED ECLAR

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

REFERENCE:

Report of SA WILBERT H. KEHE dated

10/2/61 at San Francisco.

- Р* -

+13

TYPED BY

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA:

Declassity on: Oran

Stops have been placed with INS to be

notified upon Subject's return to the U.S.

Eight copies of this report have been

furnished to the Bureau because the Bureau may desire

to furnish copies to interested Legats in Europe

inasmuch as Subject may travel throughout Europe.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

In this regard, it should be noted that

the Legat in Bonn has alerted various agencies in LS.

Germany]regarding possible travel of subject in that

country; the Legat in London has

alerted BritishS)

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

1401

7/ 001- 199

Bureau (100-30067) (Registered)

San Francisco (100-1465)

RECH 103

НЬ 3

8

3 30 3M .05

18 MAR 30 1962

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. -

HOW FWD.

BY...

1w0.1

ISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

Ras Stale Cea

613/62

0-14h

1-1

46Z

NOTATIONS

*CONTROL

SUB!!

COPIES DESTROYED

62 NOV 11373 SECRET

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

18-76324-1

DocId: 32304468 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SF 100-1465

WHK : dbm

30odL

Security Service, MIS; ang

the Legat in Paris has

been in touch(with the DST regarding possible travel S.

of Subject in those countries.

Cas 975-J8h8/7/61, advised that sometime

during the first week of May, 1961, a CPUSA delegation

visited Subject in his home in the

USSR. Subject and

his wife reportedly were living in a six-room apart-

ment in Moscow with their two small children.

regard to a question as to the feeling of the people

in the Soviet Union with regard to KHRUSHCHEV,

PITTMAN remarked that there were sharp differences

of opinion in the Soviet Union.

He noted that

thousands of ordinary people in Russia did not"

agree with KHRUSHCHEV on the world situation and *

that some of these people actually hate him and con

sider him a drunken bum.

PITTMAN explained that

some of these people felt that KHRUSHCHEV was not

qualified for leadership in the political field

merely because he had been a war hero.

PITTMAN

explained also that the ordinary Russian person

obviously objects to the spending by CPSU leaders and

the entertainment of a great number of foreign visitors.

by the Russian Government.

PITTMAN emphasized, how-

ever, that the ordinary Russian worker would not raise

his voice in fear of what might happen to him.

PITTMAN stated that he left the U. S. in a hurry

because he had been harrassed by the FBI and felt

that he would be picked up.

He evaded a question

'as

to what

he thought about his living conditions in

Moscow.

(BA 975-S on 8/15/61, advised that a member

of the CPUSA delegation visiting Moscow during June,

see not wet the mattere

noted that PITIMAN seemed to be troubled and

PITTMAN stated that he

had come to the Soviet Union with the understanding

-B.

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32304468 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SF 100-1465

WHK : dbm

MOREE

that he would be provided for and that he was not

satisfled with the setup, particularly the housing,

PITTMAN refused to comment as to whether anything

could be done in Russia concerning these matters

and

he remarked that it was a long story and he just wished

to state that he was not satisfied. PITTMAN furnished

his home address to this member of the delegation and

requested that he be contacted at a later date.

stated that if he did not receive a decent answer from

the National Leadership, the matter should be taken up

with JAMES JACKSON privately.

delegation later tried to get in touch with PITTMAN

but was informed that he was in another part of the

Soviet Union at that time.

BA 975-3418 advised that on June 12, 1961,

the CPUSA delegation was called together by the

Central

Committee of the CPSU and that JOHN PITTMAN and his wife,

SiMARGRIT, were present at a farewell supper for the group.

CG 5824-S* on 9/19/61 advised that the PITTMAN'S

were visited in Moscow by ELIZABETH GURLEY FLYNN, Chairman

of the CPUSA, when she was in Moscow, and PITTMAN Inquired

of her as to what would happen to him and his wife when

they returned to the U. S. in 1962.

FLYNN indicated

that as far as she knew, the PITTMAN's could return to

San Francisco and the

"People's World." PITTMAN stated

that he hoped they could return to the san Francisco

area because they dreaded New York City.

CG 5824-5*, d0/12/22/61, advised that PROCY

Congress was the best thing he had done during recent

times.

-C=

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32304468 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SF 100-1465

WHK: dom

= 111

12501L

Nas nad real ate ete does on that oc

heard to remark in

go to Moscow to replace

PITTMAN as the correspondent

for "The Worker."

LEAD

SAN FRANCISCO OFFICE

AT SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA

Will continue to follow the activities of

Subject through established sources and remain alert

for the return of Subject to the San Francisco area.

INFORMANTS

Source Identity

SF T-1 is THOMAS M.

TREACY, PS

SF I-2 18 CS NY 692-S

File Number Where Located

NY 134-5207A-31

NY 134-83A-

=D =

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32304468

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Ren 5-1-50)

REPORTING OFFICE

SAN FRANCISCO

TITLE OF CASE

JOHN ORION PITTMAN

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

SAN FRANCISCO

REFERENCE:

DATE

3/27/62

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/1/62 - 3/21/62

REPORT MADE BY

SA WILBERT H. KEHE

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - C

ATT, INTORMATION CONIAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED RICEPS

FELORE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Report of SA WILBERT H. KEHE dated

10/2/61 at San Francisco.

- P* -

TYPED BY

đbm :

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA:

Classitied by

Declassify on: 0M

Stops have been placed with INS to be

notified upon Subject's return to the U.s.

Eight copies of this report have been

furnished to the Bureau because the Bureau may desire

to furnish copies to interested Legats in Europe

inasmuch as Subject may travel throughout Europe.

In this regard, it should be noted that

the Legat in Bonn has alerted various agencies in CS.

Germany regarding possible travel.of subject in that

country;

the Legat in London has alerted British:

SPECIAL AGENT

N CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

APPROVED

COPIÉS MADE:

- Bureau (100-30067) (Registered)

San Francisco (100-1465)

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

NOTATIONS

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD.

HOW FWD.

BY..

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

18-76324-1

DocId: 32304468 Page 6

---

