JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10201-10266
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 92-2781-545
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: SAC, TP
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 05/10/1962
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
LST, ASSOC, ACT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT :
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 10/13/1998 is
OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE '

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId:32289490 Page 1



F226 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date: 5/10/62

Transmit the following in.

(Type in plain text or code)

Via AIRTEL AIRMAIL
(Priority or Method of Mailing)

tte TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)
FROM:
SANTO Qawe scare , JR. aka

AR
00: Tampa

SAC, TAMPA (92-1) (P)

WEEKLY AIRTEL SUMMARY

Contact maintained with CS TP 51-C and no
information developed as to subject or his activity
at 2505 Bristol Ave., Tampa.

No sources nor informants have reported
subject as beingin Tampa.

HENRY <GENCO, who was previously identified
as being at. the N & A Ranch of NICK SCAGLIONE's,
arrested by Hillsborough’Co. SO and charged as
numbers operator,

JOHN JOSEPH VITALE, racket figure from St.
Louis, Mo., presently in Tampa in contact with FRANK
DIECIDUE, associate of subject.

New York advised by airtel, 5/3/62
apparent investigation conducted regarding Fé
Confectionary Co., New York, N.'Y., has no known

Eps Bureau ,
- Miami (92-88)
2- ee

weeremcen emcee? be SED

10 MAY 1} 1962
-

ReBulet 4/26/62, Tampa airtel to Bureau, 5/4/62
and New York airtel to Tampa, 5/3/62 with copy to Miami.

teil ag PL

M Per

| pocta: 32289490 Page 2



i TP 92-1

‘ connection with subject, that no further information
was developed that SALVATORE F. PROFACI received
assistance from the subject in arranging a singing
engagement at Las Vegas. ‘New York advised that ‘on
4/2/62 NY 3368-C TE advised SA WARREN J. DONOVAN
that SANTO TRAFFICANTE owns the Club Artist,

Miami, Fla., and such is a meeting place for hoodlums:
Source stated he believed TRAFFICANTE operates Local
136 and uses (FNU) GONZALES, a high class individual,
to operate this Local.

1 New York advised by same communication a
confidential source (JERRY J. GREITZER, aka - protect
identity) that JAMES .C. LONGO, a close associate of
subject, sent him to Key West about 11/61 to get a a

\ package from a "RENO" who operates the largest club St

in Key West which had neon lights with dancing girls

and that this source did obtain package and return

same to LONGO. 4

LEADS

| MIAMI

AT KEY WEST, FLA. t
Immediately determine identity“of "RENO"

and conduct appropriate inquiry to establish con-

nections with subject or LONGO.

AT MIAMI, FLA.

1. Immediately conduct investigation and
report whether or not subject owns Club Artist and
determine subject's connection with such club.

2. Identify GONZALES and persons operating
Local 136 in Miami determining subject's connection
therewith.

No weekly summaries by the Miami Office have
been received by the Tampa Office on captioned matter.

i cee

' |

| Docta: 32289490 Page 3

