# docid-32206449

## Page 1

Date: 08/16/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

OMB

RECORD NUMBER

179-10002-10002

RECORDS SERIES

60.5, SUBJECT FILES,

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : DOJ

FROM :

TO

TITLE :

HIGHLIGHTS OF REQUEST FOR FUNDS AND PERSONNEL TOGETHER WITH FACTORS..:

DATE : 02/10/64

PAGES

: 7

SUBJECTS :

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

BUDGET REQUEST

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

T

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/03/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

There are

two copies of this document.

BOX:

-—--

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DocId: 32206119

Page

1

---

## Page 2

TOP SECRET

FEB 1

CF-2/64-T/4c.1

FIGA LIGHT OF ES DESTE FOR FUNDS AND PERSONNEL

2202 DE30 ITA FACTORS JUGH LIC NEED FOR XULL AMOUNT OF REQUESTE

ESCAL YLARS 1804 AND 1905

The F3I has been faced over the years with additional reancasibilities

and a mounting volume of work. All iactors indicata that a growing volume of

work cun be expected in all major areas. At the same time, our costs ci

operation continue to increase becausa of factors beyond our control.

Funds and Parsonnel - Fiscal Years 1904 and 1965

Our pending direct appropriation request for 1935 totals $100, 495, C30,

an increase of $3, 545, COC when compared to the $145, 300, 000 approved for

190%

Cur pursonnel request for 1055 will provida a total personnel staff of

14, 229 full-year employees (6, 014 agents and 8, 225 clerks), as follows:

5, 072 at thi Seat of Government (103 agents and 4, 001 clerks), and 9,107

employees in the Fiald (5, 546 agents and 3, 021 cleriss).

This is identical with the number of employaes to be provided by our

1904 appropriation although we expect to be called upon to handle an increased

volume of work in 1905.

Incruasins Costs

The increase of $3, 515, C00 for the fiscal year 1965 is for salary and

relatod costs. Factors entirely beyond our control, primarily the second

phase or the pay raisa costs which went into efiect January 5, 1964, account

for $2, 172, 775 of the increase while the remaining $1, 072, 225 in increased

salary costs is attributable to factors which will enable us to ratain expertenced,

productive perzonnel.

Special-Type Investigations

We ara being called upon more and more oiten to handle special-type

investications which place extraordinary demands upon our available manpower

and rusources. For example:

1.. Matters growing out of the sit-ins, bombings and related

problems at Birmingham, Alabana, have required the

pear assignment of 231 special agents; soire 19, 500 hours

of unpaid overtime have been performed; and our cars

have been driven an estimatea 212, 0e0 miles. Over-all,

our costs are estimated at nearly 3413, 000.

TOP SECREL

GAICE 2

Excluded cron automatic

downgecdica and

declass chuntien

DocId: 32206449 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TOP SECRET

))

2. Follewing the dynamite reach of an Chio gangland figure,

Charles Cavallaro, and his young con in the Fall of 1002,

we started an investigation under the explosives section

of the Civil Rights Act of 1900. & peaks of 47 agents were

assigned to this case and our costs are estimated at $116, 000.

3. The investigation into the agsassination of President

Kennedy and the subsequent murder of Lee Harvey Oswald

has placed tremendous demands upon our manpower and

Iinancial resources.

Growing Work Loads

The Eurezu's work in all major areas has grown sharply over the

years.

Increases over and above the heavy volumes experienced during the

past fiscal year are expected during the fiseal years 1904 and 1965. This is

shown in the following tabulation:

1900 Actual

1301 Actual

1952 Actual

...

1053 Actual ......

1954 Estimated

1905 Estimated

...

Fingerprint

Checies

5, 202, 907

5, 405, 274

5, 832, 077

5,720, 557

0, 000, 000

6, 000,000

Name

Checies

1,371, 834

1, 023, 605

1,352, 950

1,523, 18%

1, 900, eco

1, 900, 000

Scientific

Examinations

210,745

221, 183

231, 45G

247, 894

250, 00O

250, 000

Investigative

Matters

557,335

591, 226

657,090

636, 371

685, 000

685, 000

Increase: 1965

Over 1900

797,093

(1570)

323, 100

(217)

39, 255

(19%)

127,605

(247)

Ca January 1, 1094, a total of 116, 708 isvestigative matters were

ip bending throughout the Field. Seven par cent were in a dulinguent status.

There is an averaga assignment of 22 matters per agent, up two irom the

5% as

average of 20 a year ago. The upward trend of our Field work over the last

ho 30 infew years is raflected in the fact that on January 1, 1057, the average assign-

viday tiest pur agent vias but 16 matters.

Internal Security and Counterintelligence Cparations

Communist Party-USA; The unswerving allegiance of the Communist

Party-on to ine soviet Union plus its greatly stepped-up programs designed

DocId: 32206449 Page 3

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET

Illustrative of our progrese and growing woet in tie area is that fron

ícur active doublo agents (and six undor dovelopmont) in 1050 we stoadily

climbod to the ues of 00 (and 37 under davalsoment) during the fiscal joar 1932.

During the fiscal year 1000 this number v. increased to 53 double agents la

active capration with 110 othere under doi opaent. As of F'ebruary 6, 1051,

we had 97 active double agents and 115 c. irs undor development. With

penetration oi the communist-bloc intelli, ince sorvices being the most effective

maans of controlling their operations, utosto to davelop a groator numbor of

higily pleced double agents have been intensified and a corresponding increase

in work load is contemplated.

New Erograms; A concentrated effort has bean made to cut dow and

eliminate types of cares huving a rolatively lisatiod potential in order that

greater attention nuay be given to mattors ci major importance. However,

incroscing success in the defectios bi top. Sovict-bloe intelligence cilicers has

resulted in a groator numbor of extremely sensitive cases of major iraportance

requiring c sensive investigation and detailed cupervision. Although said to be

"impossiblo" the FbI has now establiched high level sources within the KGB

(Committee oi State Security), the GAU (Cilitary Intelligenco Service) asd the

120 (Coviut Ministry of Foreign Affairs). An increase in work load is inevitable.

General Crimtral aed Civil Gramtions

The volume of crime throughout the country has been on the increase

over the years and preiiminary figures ior the first nine months of tho calendar

your 1903 show a national increase in serious crime of 10 per cent over the

same period in 1062. The upward tread of crime is reflected in the groving

amount of criminal work we have boen called upon to handle. Cur work in the

critinal and civil area, which reacued record alghs in several classifications,

is expected to continue its upward climb. Some high lights follow:

Bunk Nobbory: An all-time high of 1, 371 violations were

received during 1963.

1+7

240

DocId: 32206449

Page 4

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 5

TOP SECRET

Zuuitive Telon Act: A record ntga total ci 2, 314 fugitives were

located during 1055 under the provisions of this Act.

Stolen Guto2: An ill-time high of 19, 193 Stolen autos which hau

boon moved interstate wars recov.red in fBi cascs during 1953.

Civil Mehta: These cases continue to mount. Thore were 1, 305

such cases in 1900; 1,813 in 2901; 2, 005 in 1002; and 2, 092 10 1003.

At the Dopartment's dizoction ve kave conducted invostiga-

tons and made surveys regardiny raciet discrimiation in voung

natters in over 100 counties under the Civil Rights Act of 1900.

The Dopartment has indicated it will continue to press vigorously

for full voting rights for every citizen and it can be anticipated

our extensive investigations in into regard will continue.

Now Work and Resconnibilities

Cae factor affecting our growing voluma of work is the steady receipt oi

now supponsibilities, such as thosa in concection with the Covernment's drive

on organized crime and from new itoms of legislation. The drive on organized

crimo roguiras a very heavy assignment of manpower and involves the constant

handling of thousands of investigations. The growing work here can ba

walized when it is considered that we presently have some 5, 00S investiga-

tions ponding in this ovar-all field as compared with approtimatoly 3, 000 1n

Januery, 1903.

As to the added work that resulte from new legislation, the items of

legislation ennoted since the Fall of 1961, to aid primarily in the crive against

organized crime, surve as a timely eample of how this brings about a new

and continuing incraase in our work. Those items of lagislation had by

January 1, 1964, resulted in the opening of 20, 740 new casas. (Detailed tabula-

tion /Exhibit a attacied.)

Eitorts Made to Handle Work With Minimam Ferconnel Available

Ofertime Servicos: To handle the gowing amount of work and the many

inventigations which regure immadiate and continuous handling, our investigative

stail has performed extensive overtime services.

The more than thres million

hours of ovortime during the fiscal year 1903 were equivalent to the service of

1, 520 apacial agents on a full-year basis. Mud it been necessary to employ tho

additional 1, 526 agents the costs would have been in excass of $17 million. After

considering the extent to which this overtime was compensated under fringe

5

TOP SECRET

DocId: 32206449 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TOP SECRET

bunofits recutiono, there was a cavings to tie Govarnment of over 911, 109, 000

when compared with the vaiue of tho total overthis periored.

Productivity: For many joors this Dureau hoc had in policy and practico

the goal of maximum clicioacy of operations with the minimum expenditura of

manpower and money. This policy 1e inglazented by cur inspectional stail

and training programs. Doth ara designed to insure that perconnel employed

2ra efficient and produotivo and through to lappoctional ctuff, annual detailod

aisininution is mado of all phecos of our cgerations to insure that these objec-

tivos are obtained and maintained. Through this and other administraciva

controls, cur operations and programs are being constantly chungod, ezpanded

or curtailed as needed to racet our responsibilitios in the most economical and

efficient econor. Thus, all possibilities ci curtallment of programs and costs

are conctantly being serutinized and placed in effect wherever possible, and

continuing efforts are made to increase our productive capacity.

in onnaple of growed productivity is that involving the major area of

investimative routters being nandied by our investigative staff. During the

fiscal years 1902 and 1955, an average of 117 Investigative matters were

closed per agent. During the flocal years 1094 and 1005 the average par agent

1a expected to rise to 110 investigative matters ciosed.

As a further example of growing productivity, wa have achleved a

mounting record of accomplishmonts in the face of a steadily growing volume

of work. (Exhibit 4 attacned.)

Suzzection Program: The 121 has had a suggestion programa in

exatunce for many years. Cur perconnel activaly participate and many suuges..

tions are adopted which improve our operations and such suggestions are

rocoonicod undes the Incentive Awards Prograin. Incentive awards are also

civen for sustained, superior performance and for outstanding accomplishments

ca the part of Bureau personnel.

Coaclusion

Although all factors indicated that tate Dursau would be called upon to

handle a still langer volume of work during 1005, no renuest was made 10r

adiuoral personnel. This, of course, meant that adational work would have

to be borne by an already overworked staff.

The responsibilities and heavy work loads borne by the stail of this

Bureau during the past fiscal years show no tendency toward decrozsing but

rather of increasing. A reduction in our present stuff would further increase

the work of each individual and wold present the potential of having a serious

DocId: 32206449 Page 6

6

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 7

TOP SECRET

¿tuct upon on ployee morala with a raculung higher turnover and loss ci

experienced and trained pursonnel--one di the cont valuable assats of the liBI.

In light of its preceing commitments, the Fal canot lin gecd conscience

accode to any proposed cut in either the fiscal year 1901 or 1005 as to funds or

pursconel. To do so would seriouly jespur. its ability to carry out lis

responsioiitles in the espionage, security, oc aniaed crime, civil rights and

other vital areas of activity, all of which are considered to be lised commitments

of the highest natioral priority.

DocId:32206449

Page

7

TOP SECRET

---

