# docid-32570104

## Page 1

TELEGRAM

IMFORMATION REFORT

TELEGRAM

793 and 294!

contains information affecting

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

National Defense of the United States

of the Espionago Laws, Titlo 19, U.S.C Secs.

SECRET

(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY

CUBA NICARAGUA

REPORT NO: TDCS - 3/556,052

SUBJECT

POSSIBLE ESTABLISHMENT OF A CUBAN

DATE DISTR.

10 AUGUST: 1963÷

EXILE BASE IN NICARAGUAN OBJECTION TO

DECLASSICA TON ANGE

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

DATE OF

RELEASE I CIA IMP

INFO.

24 JULY 1963'

IN THIS DOCUMENT.EXCEPT BRAC/575

REFERENCES

У ІН 97132

DATE ACO. ENGLANDE CONDON (9 AUGUST 1963) MKH

2-6-470CS-3/555,5291

JFK,

APPRAISAL 3

OEL 35,970

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCES

OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED

TN REPORTING, PROBABLY RELIABLE, QUOTING ROMANI."

"HELL-KNOWN AND EXPERIENCED

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ACFIWITIES

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

-

ATE2-30-9Y BY SASTENEZ

19(1 KS/

IN PRIVATE CONVERSATION/24 JULY 63, 'SALVADOR ROMANI,

JFIC)

REPRESENT-

ATIVE IN VENEZUELA OF CUBAN EXILE ORGANIZATLON

COMANDO UNIFICADO

DE LA LIBERACION EN CUBA (UNATED COMMAND OF CUBAN LIBERATION - CULC),*

CLAIMED THAT A SMALL NUMBER CUBAN EXILES HAD ALREADY MOVED FROM

MIAMI TO NICARAGUA. IN EXILE CIRCLES IT IS BELIEVED THIS ACTION

REFLECTS A PREVIOUS AGREEMENT BETWEEN PRESIDENT SOMOZA OF NICARAGUA

AND MANUE

ARTIME,

SECRETARY GENERAL OF EXILE GROUP MOVIMIENTO DE

RECUPERACCION REVOLUCIONARIA (MOVEMENT OF REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY -

MRR).. ROMANI DID NOT KNOW DETAILS ÖF AGREEMENT. IF IT ENTAILS

ESTABLISHMENT OF A LARGE-SCALE EXILE I REC BASON NICARAGUA, 3672 -

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

GROUP I

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Excluded from automarie

2 AUG 1 5 1963

.downgroding.ond

declossification

STATE/INR

DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY

AIRI

JCS

SECDEF

NSAS NIC

AID

USV A

OCI CONE

OCR

STATE/DIR

FBI

TREASURY

I&NS

ORRE

00

EXO

COAST GUARD

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION

REPORT TELEGRAM

Ice: Miami

VIIN/St

FORM

8-14-63

10-62

1K

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

109-154

(15-20) 1

DocId: 32570104 Page 1

---

## Page 2

223-10153

SECRET

(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

i Aus 1?

TBCS, +3/556,052

IN

97132

PAGE: 2

OTHER EXILE GROUPS WILL AWAIT REACTION OF UNITED STATES BEFORE

DECIDING THEIR OWN COURSE OF ACTION.

OF

2. NUCLEUS/SUCH A BASE WOULD BE DRAWN FROM THREE TO FOUR THOUSAND

EXILES WHO, ACCORDING TO ROMAN!, HAVE PREVIOUSLY RECEIVED MILATARY

TRAINING FROM MEMBERS/U.S. ARMED FORCES. ROMANI CLAIMED U.S.

T.O

POLICY IS TO FERMENT INTERNAL RESISTANCE IN CUBA AND/STRENGTHEN THE

RESISTANCE BY: INFILTRATION OF TRAINED COMMANDO GROUPS OF EXILES:

FOR THIS REASON THE U.S. CONTINUES/GIVE TACIT SUPPORT FOR TRÄINING

OF EXILE MILITARY ORGANIZATIONS.

3: ROMANI MADE FOLLOWING REVIEW OF POLICIES OF PRINCIPAL EXILE

PARTIES:

(A) CULC IS CONCENTRATING ON DISSEMINATION/ ANTI-CASTRO

PROPAGANDA IN CUBA TO PREPARE GROUND FOR INSURRECTION!

IT FAVORS

INFILTRATION/SMALL MILITARY GROUPS REENREJECTS A GENERAL INVASION.

(B) JURE (JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA), LED BY MANUEL!

RAMS CONSIDERS THE

FOREIN

PRINCIPLE REQUIREMENT IS TO SECURE SUPPORT OF DISCONTENTED ELEMENTS

IN CUBAN MILITIA AND ARMED, FORCES:

(C) ALLIANCE OF MRP

(MOV IMLENTO REVOLUCIONARIO POPULAR) ,

'SECOND FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY AND 'ALPHA 66, SUPPORTS CONTINUATION OF HIT-

AND-RUN RAIDS ON CUBAN MAINLAND IN ORDER/MAINTAIN MORALE OF RESISTANCE

FORCES IN CUBA.

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

DocId:32570104

Page 2

---

