# docid-32293032-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10210-10308

HQ

92-2713-157

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LALLIER, R. O.

TO: BELMONT, A. H.

TITLE:

DATE : 04/20/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CM, INS, REQ, BIRTH CERTIFICATE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/04/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC TTY

v9.1

12

---

## Page 2

4/20/61

REC- 75

TELETYPE

PLAINTTEXT

2715-ORGENT

É IUE TO SAC, NEW ORLEANS

FROM DIRECTOR, FBI

CARLOS MARCELLO, ANTI DASH RACKETEERING. WITH RESPECT

TO CIRAYMOND ROLLING WHO FIRST FURNISHED INFORMATION

CONCERNING SUBJECT'S HAVING OBTAINED A FRAUDULENT BIRTH

CERTIFICATE IN GUATAMALA, INS REQUESTS THE FOLLOWING

INFORMATION: ONE. DID THE BUREAU SOURCE ACQUIRE HIS

INFORMATION IN GUATAMALA? TWO. WAS THE BUREAU SOURCE

HIMSELF INVOLVED IN THE ACQUIREMENI OF THE GUATAMALA

PAPERS, SO THAT HE HAD DIRECT KNOWLEDGE RATHER THAN

HEARSAY? THREE. DID THE BUREAU SOURCE OBTAIN HIS

INFORMATION FROMICARL IRVING NOLL? SUTEL ANSWER.

TLG:LDS

-4-

COPTES DISPROXER

Tolson

Parsons

Mohr

Belmont.

Callahan

Conrad .

DeLoach -

Evans

Malone.

•Rosen

avel

NOTE:

/

Louisiana,, who was recently deported by INS to Guatamala. Carl Irving

Noll allegedly assisted in acquiring these fraudulent papers on behali of

Marcello and while incarcerated in Federal Penal Institution was interviewed

by FBI and INS.

APRI

0 147

0l 1:40

1 Bp

NO MAY 2

1967)

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

16 meter

Cors

---

