JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

5/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10216-10219
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: —92-2713-120
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: SAC,NO
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 03/21/1961
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
CM, ASSOC, ASST, TEST, BIRTH CERTIFICATE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/24/1997
OPENING CRITERIA: = INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

v9
Docld:32295943 Page 1


FDz36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

8

é ‘ \
eed i
FBI

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

i
|
|
|
1
I
|
!
i}
Date: 3/21/61 ;
|
1
i

AIRTEL AIRMAIL
(Priority or Method of Mailing)
adgeegaaqneg agin agate ee ageeegaagee gas tegeee sage equeeetgseceeegtageageage aque eng senean aaetaras at sania ouseigpaaiangaiaiiiny jeaaeeeesieaae tigre
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2713)
FROM : SAC, NEW ORLEANS (92-36)

SUBJECT: CARLOS’ MARCELLO, aka.
AR

Re NO airtel 3/17/61.

i RAYMOND ROLLING, former informant who furnished
original information regarding obtaining birth certificate in
Guatemala, is now employed as an investigator for Jefferson
Parish District Attorney's Office.

On 3/20/61, he volunteered to téstify to information
previously furnished and stated he was present in Guatemala
during the negotiations to obtain these documents with CARL
IRVING NOLL. ROLLING volunteered this information which was
not raised during the conversation with him.

On 3/21/61, this information was furnished to Mr.
HORACE NABORS, Assistant District Director, I&NS, New Orleans,
in the absence of District Director CLARENCE JOHNSON, without
revealing the identity of ROLLING.

BUREAU

) NEW ORLEANS oe
RLK:eah :

G2-p)13-1A9

40 MAR 24 196%

Bees

Sent M_
Special Agentcin Charge

|
| Docla:32295943 Page 2

