JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

4/14/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10330-10035
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —62-107261-265
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LA
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 02/14/1964 ,
“PAGES: 35
SUBJECTS :
MINUTEMEN
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: | Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 06/05/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE :

COMMENTS :

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES Ib, Ic

v9
Docld:32313424 Page 1


Fp26g (Revs s-1583) - O oO

FEDERA. BUREAU OF_INVSTIGATION

eromene orricei it errice pr onisia I fe) aneeaasive rece
LOS ANGELES KANSAS CITY ashen | L/ea/oh = B/12/6y -
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY TYPED 6
‘ a “EEOYD 0. BOGSTAD ik
yrNUTEMEN "

CHARACTER OF CASE

INFORMATION CONCERNING
(INTERNAL SECURITY)

ial

_ REFERENCE: Bureau airtel to Albany dated 1/16/64,

Uy (6,972, 1G

: i” ;
ADMINISTRATIVE: ~ 13 ba, 1g Bu
i: By letter dated 1/29/64, the headquarters, Sixth
U.S. Army, Presidio of San Francisco, California, Office of
the Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, furnished inforindtion
to this office which disclosed that the U.s. Army recently
released for sale as surplus 80,000 carbine rifles, .30 caliber,
Under present program, any individual who is a member of. the
National Rifle Association, 1600 Rhode Tsland Avenue, N.W.,
~~ Washington, D.C., may purchase one of these rifles for $20.00.
"To dave, approximately 10,000 rifles have been sold, Eighty. .

per cent of these rifles have been shipped to individuals (names
not indicated) residing within the vicinity of Los Angeles, {|

California, The Los Angeles Office is not aware of any any a

. Significance to this information,
i VE agg bE Si
i ni iSfa8.- (IPE. i
APPROVED : : (res BY SPECIAL AGENT _DONOT WRITE IN SPAGES BELOW
cores Aureau (62-107261) (RM) A | 1 Py a: ft
eto, Los angeles 1S A- [0126 = 2b
1-OSI, Maywood (RM) 3
1-Region II, U.S. Army, Pasadena HM)
i-Secret Service, Los Angeles (RM

2-Kansas City (RM) ie
2-Los Angeles oo iemeieed

/
{P-

ay A

Dissemination Record of Attached Report.
Agency g £ pla Sfes  S9UST Sess

Request Recd.

| Notations

” Date Pwd.

How Fwd. oe nt

DocId:32313424 Page 2


LA 62-5101 7

‘

i. “' a search of the records of the Los Angeles Police
Department. was not conducted concerning CLINT WHITE, inasmuch ©
as he is emp loyéa by that ‘department.

» LEAD: ‘ a
LOS ANGELES -

-AT LOS “ANGEIE CALIFORNIA: (1) Will conduct further ©
inquiry at Trangé Counsy Senge fits Office and Santa Ana Police
Department concerning captioned organization and, JACK KADER ,

5 (2) Will, upon soupletion of this investigation,

consider: requesting Bureau authority. to interview one of the
leaders of the Minutemen -in the Los Angeles . ‘
INFORMANTS =|, Pai ee

é Urs , LOCATION - - -
/

LA T-1 , Instant
CSLA Ge .

LA. T-2 157-712-102
WILLEM ANNE : ‘

GIETMA, PCL
Racial)

" - LA T- -3 . 625101-107
i BILL. G, TUBBS . :

kee quested),

66 West Harvard’

Street, Glendale, -

California

ae | LA T-4 _. Instant
‘ i CSLA 3184-8 |

pie
COVER, PAGE

|

oo (ee

| DocIa:32313424 Page 3


LA 62-5101

NEGATIVE INFORMANT CONTACT (FRESNO ae ' ier ai
{ta 3593-8,}on’ 2/6/64, to SA ROBERT J. EMONTS.
WE on '3864~5,] on 2/6/64, to SA ROBERT J. BMONTS.

¢

fee : -DRe "OU: oo

| DocIda:32313424 Page 4
