# docid-32302711

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10282-10223

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-30067-190, 191, 192

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, NY

TITLE:

DATE: 11/01/1977

PAGES: 7

SUBJECTS :

JOP, CP MEMBER, REL, TRA, MED, DESCR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IB

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 2 A/T, LHM

---

v9.1

• DocId:32302711

29

Page

---

## Page 2

Airted

SECRET

To:

BAC, Chicago

Mon:

Director, FDI

OTH ORION PITTIAN

FOI - R (I)

(66 NC)

FOLL INVESTIGATION

Initiatod 6/17/77

(Duf1le 100-30067)

MARGAIT ADLER PITTRAN

FCI • 8 (I) (NC)

FULL INVESTIGATION

_ Initiated

1 8/9/72)

(Butile

100-333702)

1 - Mr.

M.

J.

Steinbeck

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. GMB 8/6/946

1/3/78

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSITTED EXCERS

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Declassify on: OADR

MAILED 11

DEC 3 0 1977

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. -

Crim. Inv.

Fin, & Pers.-_

Ident. -

Intell. -

•Laboratory

Legal Cour. -

Plan. & Insp.-

Rec Mgnt. -

Spec. Inv. -

Tech. Servs. -

Training

Publie Affs. Off.-

Telephone Ri. -

Director's See"y -

DocId: 32302711

50 JANE

Page 2

CALETYPE UNIT

Attached for Chicago da one copy each of Bualr

11/1/77 captioned as above and a copy of Mairtols/Lils

11/15/77 regarding captionod subjects.

EDITO

and CIAHO

earlier discussed targeting for

rocruitaent CPUSA membars

who reside and work in socialist

couatries.

Joha Pittnon was our initial candidate 1a

view of

bie secess

to the International Department,

CG, CRSU.

Now York's Lille were

furnished to CIAlly and during another

conference

100-

12/29/77, CIAlS inquired

whetnos surem coulo

Obtain accitional assessment of subjects.

REC-55/00 -

30067-

chicago is requested to

5824-01 and submit ao LIN

secure assesament firo

suitable for dissenination.

5824-01

should not be advised that the Pittnans are being

targeted for recruitment.

anaet to furnish assessment of various CPUSA mombers enployee

la socialist countries such as Karen Tolbert, reprosentative

the Jorld Peace Council; Phillip Bonosky, USSR correspondent

to

of the Datly Vorld newspaper,

ete.

asaessnent is obtained

for individuels other than Pittmans,

furnish santo Maxla wade

caption of "CPUSA International Relationa. *

Enclosures (5)

21 JAN 4 1978

UNRECORDED COPYFILED IN

2 - New

York:

Classified

3104

MJS: kem Lw

Exempt fron Gr

Categories 2 and ba NOTE PAGE 9

(8)

late

o1 Declassification indefiaite

---

## Page 3

FD-36 (Rev. 7-27-76)

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

[' Facsimile

X Airtel

FBI

M.J. FARMERICIA,

DIFIETA

LHM

PRECEDENCE:

Immediate

Priority

_ Routine

SECREA

CLAS SIR

I TOP SECRET

Z SECRET

- CONFIDENTIAL

DEETO

J CLEAR

Date

11/15/77

SECRET

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-30067)

FROM:

ADIC, NEW YORK (100-88368) (P)

SUBJECT:

JOHN ORION PITTMAN

AT INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNGLASSEFTED EXCEPI

WHERE SHOVN OTHERWISE,

FULL INVESTIGATION

(INITIATED 6/17/77)

classiat

By SPS Move meda

Declassity on: DAUKA

ReBuairtel to NY, 11/1/77.

Enclosed for the Bureau are the original and four

copies of an

LHM entitled "JOHN ORION PITTMAN" and marked

"Secret". (PTU)

ST:140

REC-90/ 00-30067-191

Subject has not been contacted in the past by

the FBI because of his editorial position and his dedication

to the CPUSA.

New York files contain no new information

that he would be receptive to recruitment if approached. s

2

NOV 22, 1977

ORIGINAL

11/21/77

11-4220

-

Bureau (EMS) ENCE (1)

New York

ENCLOSURE

DV: jtc

(4)

SEC

RE

CLASSIFIED BY 6127

EXEMPT

FROM GDS,

CATEGORY 283

DATE

OF DECLASSIFICATION INDEFINITE

s. Mech,

DOC. CL

SECRET

Transmitted

(Number)

(Time)

ase.

Per

DocId: 32302711

-Page

---

## Page 4

I AIRTEL

Mr. M. J. Steinbeck

SECRET

TO: SAC, New York

From: Director, FBI

JOHN ORION PITTMAN

FCI-R (I) (CC-NC)

FULL INVESTIGATION

Initiated 6/17/77)

1(8)

(BUfile 100-30067)

MARGRIT ADLER PITTMAN

(FCI-R (I) (NC)

FULL INVESTIGATION

Initlated 81911%

BUtile 100-333702

11/1/77

REBEL DECHASSCATION AND OR.

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENTAS SANFIED.

Eme stati KP 11-6-97

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEP%

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

11-8-943 408-nulonk

Classified t

Declassify gio

OADR

During recent discussions at CIAHQ concerning the

International Communist Movement, it was agreed between

representatives of FBIHQ and CIAHQ that subjects would be

ideal candidates for recruitment as assets.

This is based

upon John Pittman's position on the Editorial Board of "World

Marxist Review (WMR) .*

The WiR is an organ of the International !

Department of the Central Conmittee of the CPSU.

New York should submit an up-to-date LIN concerning

subjects. , (U)

MJS : dlb

(5)

NOTE:

Upon receipt of requested

subjects will be

discussed againtuith!

assets the CIA and FBI

use against subjeats for possible

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adn. -

recruitment approabill

Dep. AD Inv. --

11-19-97 RECTS.

100-30067

190

120. bE CLASSIFIED EY: 5668 510 KSR

1.5

Fin. & Pers.

C)

Ident.

CLACOITY ON: X.

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun. _

(JFK)

Plan. & In sp. -

Rec. Mgnt. -

SECRET

Class tied by 7157

Exempt from Gos, Categories 2 and 3

of Declassification Indelinite

Spee. Inv.

Tech, Servs.-

Training

Pubicone an OV 1 51977

Telephone Rm.

Director's Sec'y-

MAIL ROOM

"M..

TELETYPE UNIT. I

DocId: 32302711

Page 4

** SENT VIA FACSIMILE

DATE_ 1111/29 dsh

100-333702

Unrecorded. Copy Filed In

rops

---

