# docid-32575055

## Page 1

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2918) (92-2914)

AC, PITPSBURGH (92-228) (92-236)

SAMUNI MANNARINO, HRB.;

JABRTRI MANNARINO, WaS.

0O: Pittsburgh

8/12/58

Enclosed 18 repori of dA RICHAND GODON DOUch, Rituaburgh,

dated

8/12/58.

REALITICE

Report of SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE, PIttsburgh, 7/8/58.

ADSINTSTRATIVS

RECORDS OF TAS

MALKA INO ARRESTED 1

1 11

CARRYING A CONCEAND TAIP

A SHALL CALLERA GUA

CARRYING

BE

35 CALLER RE

FRED ARTED AND DI

DUPARENT

I SUS POLOUS

BASE XA

NO WAS ANHE

Conse

Infornation inoluded in enclosed report under the heading

Criminal Astivities as to the Identitied of Nu Ben Novelty.

Company onployees was disseninated to the Internal Revenue

service,

Pittsburgh, by letter dated July 22, 1950.

same Inforation vas prepared in lecterread manortneum

form and transmitted to the bureau for diasentration te

the Internal Revenue service, Washington, D. C., by letter

daced July 22, 1958.

It will be

noted that under the heading of Associates that

Informaiton was roceived regarding check basaing assitity

on the part of CARE IRVIIG NOLE,

PEI No. 968583, In New

Kensington, Pa., during June, 1950.

Previous inveatigation

has established

that foli, whoae true name is apparently

CARL RAComE, 1s known in new orleans, lowdama, and det

Kensington, Pa., as CARL NOLL,

since the aeries of checis

/* - Bureau (Encl. 4)

1 - rittsburgh

(2 - 92-220)

12 - 92-236)

92-2918

COORDED

T6 1958

119

RCD: be/vin

SHOULD

DocId: 32575055

Page 1

ORIGINAL

PILLO TI

---

## Page 2

PO

92-228

PO

92÷235

passed in Me Kensington were signed CARS NOS no I09Y

Investigaton tres instituted as the cheats would not come

nothin the purvien of the TISP Statuse in accordance:

with existing departmental poldey with respect to truc

name Checke

LBADS

(lentmoroZand Countyr).

w111 maintain regular contact with confidentle

sources;

VOXE- DERVOS,

MAZEER O.

SEARNEY, PO 545-G, and PG 564-0.

fom information regarding subjectal legitinate enterprises;

ortninal activities, and descalates.

42%

Mill recontact

fir and Mro, MARSAL HOUD, neighborhood

- sources; at 536 Charles Avenues

and Mr.

and ling, JANSS C.

POSt; neighborhood sourees, at 216 Highland Avenues

Swift and Company,

(Bovece: 6u information to octernino whether SANUEL. MANNARINO

and his assoctates have

boon able

to intercot any local

drive-in theaters in their proposed food and refreshment

concessace businesse

will interview ARCINE NELUSRE

coroner of ArCITE MILLERIs

Monte Cloching Store, for the purpose of confiming the

allegation that Al 2810, Die A3 Roco, reputed MANNARITO

teleser men,

lossed the gambling casino on Barnes

Gozeet

will Anteryten At ZSID,

VET No. 574163, who 1e 801đ

to 20side at

2640 Page Street

(telephone number Edison 5+0367),

to determine when and where he applied for U. 3, citizenship

and the name he used in connection with such

anoil cotton,

Wiz1 also interview ZEXD with respect to the runeroue

Listed on his idental cation record in order that

& lesterhend memorandun may be Alasentrated to the Tunigration

and Naturalization Service 1f 10 1c diseovered that he has sio

ectualty applied for citizenship on failed to

regloter as

812

al4en,

DocId: 32575055

Page 2

---

## Page 3

92-220

F9 92-236

*12. Will report renulte of Laventiention being conducted by

-Washinzton Plete ofelde to Identity subserabar to telephone

0O: 576420

eatied tren the liu ten Novelty Company on 12/16/57

ond 2/ 28/56€

#13. w111 réport investigation being conducted by Legat hone

concoming the report that GABRIEL MANNARITO may be living in

Bones: Italy e

+24,

w411 roport additional information renorted by the legat

-flavana concoming subjectal potivities in Cubes

wias sopost investigatten being conduoted by legnt

as being out of to contacts for the MANNARINO brethero,

W1z2 zeport investigation being conducted by Cleveland

Worsenio.

Ontoy to deberine thether CHARLES MURIZE alleged

"Maria" menter has provided a hide-out for SCHASTTAN 30%l

LA BOCCA aná GAINTEL VANNARIO sinee their disappcarance tien

the Pioteburgh greas

37: W121 follow and report prosecution of 70U SANNAS,

will at the leina Conpony Orflees North Side, Pittaburgh,

Intervier Mra. (Nu) sUNz of Curtiezzile, Pace concerning

the report that one of her neighbore, click ware, 1s

hiding out an Italion wanted by the flew Kensington Police

Deprument who may be stentseal with CABRIDD MANNARENO.

19, Wii recontact WILLIAM BRAIN, Decectavo, Mlochery

ouncy Deceasave Bureata regarding the report that the

MANATINO brothers aro backing bingo games operating in

McKeesport, Pa»

$20, 11112 zecontact POX ALTED GHARLES SAPPA conceming

- the report that the NANviRENe brothens

operation et loyals Limited, 2926 Hurray Ayonue, Involving

DAVID LAMINCE: FBI No: 1338027-and SobAL

pronebly identical wich sowe cansurm, shylock for the

MANHARINO organsation in. Now Kensington.

*: 5 m

DocId: 32575055

Page

---

## Page 4

92-220

20

02-236

421.

clubs In New Kentington to purchase Stonoy Beer instead

of Rolling Rook Deon on wise losing pinball machines in

their ostiblishments;

ORTILIATE

ROVS

LANT COVERACE

PS: 545-0

P0 56440

WALTER J, SHARKEY, confidential source

MIKE ELaVOS, confleenises source

As a matter of information HALESR 3,

SHARINE: was forced to

retire from the New Kensington Poltoe Department in 1956

because of a heart absacke

Te was recently re-ermined

by hie doctor and pronounced physically hit to return te

duty and 1g now wallcing & beat

in dontam New Kensington,

In view of SHARIaX's reinatatement on the New Kensington

Polloc Porce he no longen qualities as an infomant and his

ICT file was closed eininistretively.

In the fucwre

SHARKEY what be contactea as a confidentia source:

letter dated July 35, 1953, the Bureau mas carised of

the close acquaintance of fonzer POT Wum ZaAVos with :

Asesatant

Attorney Goneral D, MALCOLM-ANDERSON, 0, B+

Department

of dustice.

313

- 124

DocId: 32575055

Page

---

## Page 5

PG

92-228

PO

92-236

T-16 Ls TOSEPH KERNAN, POT of Miami Office, contacted by

3A ROBERT X. LEWIS,

0-17 19 WALDER J.

SHARKEX, confidential source,

contacted

by SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE,

5-18 18 WILLTAV BRAIN, Detective, Allegheny County Deteotive

Bureau,

Pittsburgh, contacted by SA GENE H. STUDEBAKER,

3-19 te 1M1 644-0 contacted by SA WILLIAM L. EDDY,

The Wlani

018tce on July 1, 1958, advised that extreme caution should

be given to information fumished by VM 644-0 and no dissentnation

should be made which would in any way compromice his identity.

I-20 1s PO 509-C contacted by SA JOHN S, PORTELLA,

T-21 la an anonymous informant who contacted Assistant Attorney

General D. MALCOLM ANDERSON, U. S. Department of Justice, by

letter dated June 16, 1950, offering to furnish information

regarding the activities of several Pittsburgh top hoodlums,

an address where he could nite to Mir, ANDERSON personally.

A post office box has been rented by the Pittsburgh office

and several letters regarding the activities of Pittoburgh

top hoodlums received to date.

386 108.49

DocId: 32575055

Page 5

---

