# docid-32323802

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

3/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90020-10062

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-441782-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO:

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/22/1975

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

[Restricted]

CITIZENS COMMITTEE OF INQUIRY

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

4

Redact

11/13/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32323802

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

SECRED

1 - Mr. Hetherington

trol: +13) 7820

October 22, 1975

(JEAN I DES MARIONE](5)

CENTER

CITIS

DR. MAVIONAL SACURITY STUDIES:

iS COMMITIDE OF INQUIRY

Reference is

ande to your conmunication

dated September 29, 197%, your referenes 75wI0-15-215,

requescing information ón captioned individual. (9)

Basad on information and/or investigation

the central files of this Bureau reveal the Center for

National Security Studies

is reportod to be a private,

tax exenpt research organization loonte in washington, D.C.

(100-483753)

The Citizon's Comittoe of Inquiry is also

private organization located in Washington,

D. Co, wish

one Mark Inne being a principal officer and reported to

be an individual who attonpts in capitalize on sensational

events.

(100-441782-2)

Our files contain no additional pertinent

information concerning tre two above-captioned organizations

and no information identifiable witi:

Jean jacques Marnout, (S)

ATED TAFORWOGTOS CORDAZABIO

4/3/97

11PRE SHONN 0053R71980*

CLASSIRED EY: 50/8548/ude

142220

B,e, Di

DSCLASSIFY ON:

141

Karlao

• Liaison nifice](s)

NOTE:

Matter

coordinated with Special Agent T. C. Dorch,

Intelligence DIVISIOn.

Delivered

Dep. AD Adm...

-120.175

to bashington representat sue for cup (3)

bynamil

SCHLEGE

Arst, Dir.:

Artinin, .....

1

- 62-35717

Comp, Syri.

Ext. Affair:

Files 2. Com.

Gun. Ins.

EXEMPTION CAIG

.: 1:0e2

AUTOMANCALLT L

OLAENIED ON

Data contained heroin is being

furnished for your incormation.

Il necessary it may be dissemi

Inspection

tarell.

nated for official purposos to

other agencies in your governonte

The XLI 19 204

to buidenitiod

Sec, tor.

Training

SECRET

Ne too spego

T. It pl

Drector

NOV 17193

SECRET

Santa finiste

DocId: 32323802 Page 2

ORIGINAL FILED

UNRECORDED COP

---

## Page 3

The RO

Liaison Office

2450 M

isachusetts ave. N.W.

washington, BE8-3 079903

75WLO-1S-215

29 September 1975

UR NO.

OTRENO

SECRET

To:

From:

The Director

"3:

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Inspector H.W. Brandes

RCMP Liaison Officer

Helping ten,

Re:

Jean Jacques MARMONT

Born 7 October 1943

Ontario, Canada

As this subject has come to the attention of the

Security Service, we would appreciate a check of your

records for any traces of him or the following organiza-

tions to which he claims to belong.

Center for National Security Studies

122 Maryland Ave. N.E.

washington, D.C.

Citizen's Connittee of Inquiry

103 Second Street N.E.

Washington, D.C.

100441782-

NOT RECORDED

3r" NOV 11 1975

100-483

CLASCIRIED BY: S1d08-540 nde

REASON 15 1B40-00

DECLASSIFY ON:

3

OCT

ORIGINAL FILED IN

This document is

the properly of

the Govemment of

Can:dr.

1l is provided on condition

the

that it is for use solel

intelligence scarily of

the

recoling

Governent

Me i .! 1!

detectbad wahead toe express permission

el me Gonerament of Cunide.

DocId: 32323802 Page 3

---

