# docid-32556643

## Page 1

3/17/65

AIRTDE

REC- 131

TO:

FROM:

GUS

AR

3187

1065

LEGAT, BERN

Diroctor, FBI

ALEX, aka.

1 - Mr. Leggett

Tolson

Belmont -

Mohr

DeLoach

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad

Felt.

Gole

Rosen

Sullivan.

Tavel -

Trolter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy 01

- MAN

For your information, a highly confidential souce

of the Chicago Office bas advised that Alex continues to show

concern over the order issued by Swiss authorities banning his

visits to Switzerland until 1975, In this regard, Alex has

sought the advice of a Chicago hoodlun tax attorney, Fugene

Bernstein, and it is reported that Alex will be placed in

contact with & swas atioral mainly in curioh, who will

handle Alex's appeal from the

It was reported that Alex

appears ready to

go to great lengths and expense in order to

win this appeal.

It is reguested that you furnish the Bureau with any

further information coming to your attention in this regard.

2 - Chicago

NOTE:

Chieago top hoodlum Gus Alex and his girl friend,

Suzanne Feuger, annually visit switzerland and other European

countries for a winter vacation.

Through Legat, Bern,

Swiss

authorities have previously been alerted to Alex's background

and recently, following the subject's return from his visit in

Switzerland,

Swiss authorities issued an order banning him from

the country until 1975.

Alex has indicated he intends to appeal

this order.

1 - Foreign Liaison (Route through for review)

JGL: ral

MAILED 4

I3 1955

COMM-FBI

With hon

3107865

ROOK

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32556643

Page 1

---

