# docid-32327950

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90066-10191

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3960-64

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 09/24/1963

PAGES:

21

SUBJECTS:

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified'

RESTRICTIONS :

3; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

/DocId: 32327950

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NY 92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE

On numerous occasions during he summer of 1963

advised

SA VILLIAM A. VERICKER that FRANK FC GUIRE 1S 3936-C

endeavoring to erect a boys' camp and health resort in

Greenwood Lake, NY.

NY 3936-C further stated that

HERBERT ITKIN, an attorney, and the subject are assisting

MC GUIRE in an endeavor to to obtain a mortgage for this

establishment.

In view of the closeness of the informant to this

matter, it is felt that nothing would be gained iron

interview of either GRANELLO or ITKIN

and might possibly

compromise this informant.

The

files of the NYO Division failed to reflect any

information identifiable with JAY ROSENBLATT, 446 Nest 55th

St., NYC, King and Barnes, 1400 2nd Ave., NYC or VINCENT VOLIE.

The current telephone directories for the Greater Miami,

*Lorida area, reilect that Je 8-8716 1s listed to the bolivar

noted, 140 Ocean Drive, Miami Beach, Fla.

It is not believed

practicable to attempt to determine what individuas at the

Bolivar Hotel was called from the telephone of NANCY GRANELLO.

The infomation rectived from the Southern Bell Telephone

and Telegraph Company, Miami Beach, Florida, was obtained

from Mrs. LORRAINE

ETTER by IC ROBERT JOHN

SCHAMAY.

On 8/19/63, AL 3050-PC was recontacted in regard to the

subject. The informant advised that three of four weeks

ago, he received a telephone call from JOIE KAUFMAN, in which

KAUFMAN told him that he was then at JIMMY BARONE's, Murray's

Inn, Fuller Rd., Colonie, NY.

AL 3050-PC further stated

that he proceeded to Murray's Inn at which time he joined

Italian, who was with

KAURIAL, SRANELLO and a dar colDlexionedEood 100k1na young

• GRANELLO and whose name was

(last name unknown).

The informant stated that KAUFMAN

identified "Tony" to him as GRANSLLO's bodyguard. AL 3050-PC

further advised that KAUrMAN, GRANELLO, TONY and

KAUFMAN's

wife had driven to Albany, NY, apparently because KAUFMAl's wife,

MARGIE, who is a choreographer, had to rehearse the chorous

girls taking part in the floor

show at Murray's Inn.

COVER PAGE

= 3:

-

DocId:32327950

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-1103

He stated that he overheard a conversation between KAUFMAN

and CRANELLO in which he heard GRANELLO mention that nes

satiano, was Interested in putting up and million dollar

summer and winter resort in Green County, composed of health

club in the summer

and a ski resort area in the winter.

The informant advised that KAUFMAN is of Jewish-italian

extraction, in that his mother is an Italian and his father

of Jewish ancestory. He further stated that KAUFMAN is desperate

for money since

he owes $1300.00 for rent.

The aforementioned information from AL 3050-PC was not

included in the details of this report, since the disclosure

of this information might possibly tend to compromise

this infornant.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY T-1

NY 3969-C-TE

Contacting Agent

JOHN D. SWIFT

'ga!

NY T- 2

NY 204-C

NY I-3

JOSEPH VALACHI

NY T-4

NY 4018-PC

ITY T-5

JOSEPH FERRISE,

Internal Revenue Service,

US Treasury Department

245 West Houston St.,

New York City

..i.

PAUL G. DURKIN

JAMES PA FLYNN

JACK H. LUPTON

EUGENE J. HINDES

• COVER PAGE

-

DocId: 32327950

Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-1108

on July 30, 1963, NY I-5 advised that the motions

pertaining to the subject's income taxmatter were argued on

July 29, 1963. However, the decisions were reserved in the matter.

NY T-5 further stated that the trial date had been

tentatively set for August 12, 1963.

On August 13, 1963, NY I-5 advised that the subject's

trial on income

tax violations had been postponed until September 10,

1903: In adaition, NY T-5 stated that no decision had been made

on the various motions filed by the defense.

B. Statutory Rape

In July 20, 1963, the "New York Daily News"

article captioned "He's Cleared in Rape Case"

, stated that the

subject was freed on the second degree rape charges involving a

15 year old girl in Greenwood lake, New York.

The charges were

dismissed by Justice of the Peace THOMAS W. TALLEUR On JuLy 19,

1963, for lack of corroboration.

Following the dismissal of charges,

GRANELIO stated

"I'm glad to have been vindicated of this terrible thing. Justice

has prevailea."

on July 26, 1963, Sergeant WILLIAM J. ADAMS, Bureau of

criminal Investigations, New York State Police, Monroe, New York,

advised SAS DONNELLY and HINDES that the statutory nape charges

against the subject were dismissed on July 19, 1963, for lack of

corroboration.

Aside from the fact there was a considerable delay

between the arrest and hearing, Sergeant ADAMS stated that he was

not cognizant of any details relative to the matter.

According to Sergeant ADAMS, the victim was listec

aS JANE EMILY WILLIAMS,

Date of Birth - April 18, 1948.

victim's parents were listed as ELIZABETH and CHARLES WILLLANS.

V. HABITS AND PECULIARITIES

During July, 1963, the following employees

, past and

- 6 -

i.i.

DocId: 32327950 Page 4

---

