# docid-32285866

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10194-10142

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-29-546

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/15/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIP, BOOKMAKING AND BETTING, ACT, MONES, AL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/14/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

DocId: 32285866

Page, 1

---

## Page 2

-Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

,. FBI

Date:

8/15/62

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TROUPE

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, MIAMI

(92-515) (P)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

Weekly Summary

MM 509-C on 6/5/62 advised that he received infor-

mation that AL MONES (Miami file 92-386) is operating a book-

making and betting operation out of ROBERT GOLDBERG's,

aka. BOB RUSSELL (Miami file 162-69) apartment at Miami Beach

and that RICHARD MARGOLIS and an alleged newcomer to the area

named LEVY or KLEIN are handling the operation at this apartment

for MONES. He also advised that he learned MONES is and has

in the past been betting and booking on horses which run at

Aquaduct, Monmouth and Delaware Park Race Tracks.

This source also advised that he was told MICHAEL'-

COPPOLA (Miami file 92-101) has a piece of the bookmaking and

betting of ANTHONY SALERNO (Miami file 92-406) and that SALERNO,

as well as JOSEPH SILESI (Miami file 162-84), have a piece of

RUBY LAZAROUS' bookmaking and betting operation. He also

advised that FRANK (LNU), a close friend of MICHAEL COPPOLA

and one who was permitted to do some bookmaking in MICHAEL

COPPOLA's Amvets #35 Club, Miami Beach, the past winter

season, welched on about $4,000 worth of bets and skipped

from the Miami area.

REC 50 62-9-59-5316

MM 799-C* on 5/25/62 reported that although shylocks

may operate differently, they cooperate with one another in

- Bureau (AM)

2 - Miami

RFF: mgw

183 JUN 18 1962

(5):

Ic 84

Approve

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId:32285866 Page 2

---

## Page 3

• MM 92-515

that they check with one another when an individual comes

to them to borrow money. This source reported that

MICHAEL COPPOLA was the individual who öriginally organized

this set-up and that PASQUALE ERRA (Miami file 92-648),

ANTHONY SALERNO, MAX EDER (Miami file 92-467), DAVE YARAS

and AL MONES are active in this field.

MM 806-PC on 6/12/62 advised that the bolita

operators are again paying "ice money" in Dade County.

On 5/31/62, KENNETH SKOTTEGARD, Investigator for

the Florida Attorney

General's Office, Miami, Fla., advisec

he received information that one ROBERT CALLAHAN REHR, 671

N. E. 140th St., N. Miami, Fla., age 35, an electrician

employed by Jones Electric Co.,

has taken over the bolita

operation of HOWARD PINDER since PINDER has been in the

penitentiary.

SKOTTEGARD stated REHR has a Federal Gambling

Stamp under the name of ROBERT C. REHR, 2220 Gulfstream DI.,

Miramar, Fla.

-

"DocId: 32285866

Page

---

