# docid-32292565-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10209-10341

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-1182

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

GALE, J. H.

TO:

DELOACH

TITLE :

DATE: 04/04/1967

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/03/1995

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

447

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM CIO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1302 EDITIONS

GSA GEN.

REG. NO.

27

UNITED STATES

'ERNMENT

Memorandum

• TO

: Mr. DeLoach

FROM

: J. H. Galeth

SUBJECT: GUS ALEX

ANTI- RACKETEERING

DATE: April 4, 1967

Tolson -

DeLoach.

Mohr

Wick

Casper -

Callahan

• Conrad -

Felt .

Gale L

Rosen

Sullivan.

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

ALex, who has been a leader of

the underworld in

Chicago's First Ward since the death of Jake Guzik in 1956, has -

been closely associated with Sam Giancana, the now deceased

Murray Humphreys and others in the Chicago criminal organization.

He has made annual trips to Europe and until 1965 made stops in

Bern, Switzerland.

On February 3, 1967, the Swiss pronounced an interdiction.

preventing Alex from thereafter visiting Switzerland.

course of

During the

to a good

a lengthy appeal, Alex caused numerous letters attesting

background to be

directed to Swiss authorities and in

early March, 1967, the Swiss stated they had

concluded they do not

have evidence to uphold the ban against Alex's entry.

Legal Attache, Bern, ascertained from Swiss authorities

that among the letters received by them was one from Congressman

William L. Dawson of Chicago, stating that Alex was his

constituent and friend for many years and he knew him as a law-

abiding, decent, successful representative of the Chicago business

community. Dawson, of course, is well known to the Bureau as

having supported the Communist Party and the Communist Party, line

In addition, he is alleged to be involved with the policy and.

syndicate racket in Chicago.

Another letter was received by the Swiss from Senator

Everett McKinley Dirksen, which asked

that Alex be informed of the

bone the use on gie land ang, that sues 1 181

reconsider their decision

Enc.

1

983 8

APRB7I. 1967

- Mr. DeLoach

3 50 618,81

20E "0UC

-

Mr." Wick

fis

-

Mr. Gale: 0 0031cE

-

Mr.

McAndrews

CONTINUED - OVERLE 2 11 50UES

1 - Mr.

Leggett

1 sm

(6)

Is Discussed linth M De Looch

55

F5 4-5-67 + he felt sishen shite

not te Contested- SAc Johman

airsed.

---

## Page 3

Memorandum to Mr. DeLoach

Re:

Gus Alex

Chicago, in attached teletype, makes reference to

the above and points out that in view of Congressman Dawson's

unsavory background no action should be taken with respect to

him, but in view of Senator Dirksen's reputation of integrity,

that the Bureau may desire that he be advised of Alex's

background.

ACTION:

It is noted that Senator Dirksen is on the Special

Correspondents List.

It is, therefore, recommended that Crime

Records liaison contact Senator Dirksen and because of his

apparent unfamiliarity with Alex, advise the Senator of Alex's

background. In view of the fact that it is entirely possible

Senator Dirksen is unaware of letter sent on behalf of Alex to

Swiss authorities, Senator Dirksen should be tactfully advised

of the receipt of

this information by the Bureau.

Only if

pressed

for details as to our source, should it be indicated

to him that our Legal Attache in Bern, Switzerland, was advised

by the Swiss authorities that Senator

• Dirksen's letter was

among a number of letters which was being considered by the

Swiss in connection with Alex's appeal from interdiction.

If recommendation is approved, appropriate background

on Alex will be provided the liaison Agent.

gha

Tor and

2

---

