ea

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/4/2015
Identification Form

{ Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10218-10420

RECORD SERIES: HQ

j AGENCY FILENUMBER: 97-4474-200

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, SJ
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI .

TITLE :

DATE: 04/23/1965
‘PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, TRAINING, EQUIPMENT, FUNDS, PROPAGANDA,
MEMBERS, PR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 06/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

—_—_—_|__ oc i — —- aa —, qx
v1 9

DoclId:32297144 Page 1


‘OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 smote
(MAY 1062 EDITION 2
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO" :NMENT

| Memorandum

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474) pate: 4/23/65

LzRE PS sac, san san (105-7609) (RUC)

Cromereero INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA
MIRR

IS - CUBA; NEUTRALITY MATTERS

SUBJECT:

00: MM .

ReBuairtel to Miami, 4/8/65.

: Sources familiar with Cuban activities in Puerto
Rico have been alerted to furnish any information concerning
the activities of the captioned organization. They are: /
SJ 492-S, SJ 533-S, CSSJ 486-8, and ROBERTO ROCA ROSSILLO,

PSI. ELECATE of Cierasyeey Ost Bae

On 4/19/65, EUGE! LAF: 'ABOADA, Cuban exile -‘
and insurance broker with offices _at_302 Calle Comercio,
San Juan, P. R,, advised that he is currently the Puerto
Rico delegate of ¢aptioned group. He stated that captioned \
group has no equipment in Puerto Rico, conducts no training
. of any sort and does no recruiting. They are in Puerto
_Rico only for propaganda activities and for fund-raising. aw!
The organization numbers less than 30 men in Puerto Rico i
at this time. He stated that the MIRR has never had any
poats or airplanes in Puerto, Rico. He stated that he did
not know the ie of MODEST RRERO or of a minister i
j. _ RamedISIDROKRAMON. eee
)

SJO will maintain contact with established Cuban
“sources in Puerto Rico and follow activities of the MIRR.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

i ; ZY fS
HEREIN i$ UNCLASSIFIED te nari gOO
DATE, ome “ 1s APR 26 1965
geet CLES) cnn) —— ae
1 - San Jug : _£
: /ajw :

: (5)
> ZOAPRZ FP?

DocId:32297144 Page 2
