JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/5/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10354-10120
RECORD'SERIES: NY
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — ELSUR 92-793-540
Document Information
: ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: CG
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: — 08/05/1963
PAGES: 12
SUBJECTS :
MULTI SUBJECT: SGI, LST, JRO, CM
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 09/14/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 1A

v9.1
| Doclda: 32317792 Page 1


CG 92-349
‘LEADS

Information copies are. being sent. to those
offices who have an interest in either SAM GIANCANA or in -
associates ‘of GIANCANA set forth in this report.

CHICAGO

‘aT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 1. Will continue to
follow and report on all activities pertaining to SAMUEL
GIANCANA. ‘ on

2.. Will continue to follow ‘proceedings in the

United States Court of Appeals concerning appeal regarding
GIANCANA's attempt to gain injunction against the: yal.

3. Will maintain liaison with members of United
States Attorney's Organized Crime Division to determine -

-possibilities of violation of perjury statute arising from

regent court case pressed by GIANCANA.
ADMINISTRAT EVE

It is noted that the. investigative period for
this report is in excess of 60 days, however, no report
has ‘been submitted during this period so jthat complete results
of suit filed by GIANGANA could be ineluded in this ‘report.
It is further pointed. out that the Bureau has been kept
advised.on a daily basis of all pertinent activity occurring
in the GIANCANA investigation.

‘Ss

INFO)

Information received from CG 6486-C*, CG 6632-C*,
CG. 6498-PC, and CG 6576-C* has been paraphrased to further ©
“protect the identities of these extremely confidential sources.

Identity: of Informant : To: Whom _ Furnished

CG, T=1-
PCY VICTOR LACROIX COLLINS

-Be
COVER PAGE

Docld:32317792 Page 2

SA CHARLES DONNELLY 8/24; 6/19/63 © ,



CG. 92=349

Identity. Informant
CG. 12.

To. Whom Furnished...
Miami Division, 5/27/63

tPHY, U. S.Customs,
Miami, Florida’

SA CHARLES DONNELLY and SA

cGT-3
“BCT LOWELL WILLIAMSON PAUL DURKIN 5/24; 6/18/63,

Ted. : SA. LARRY FABLE, 5/29/63,
“RUSSELL . Miam$,, ‘Division

requested)
CG. T-5

Ce
CG. T=6
CG 6832=c+
CG T=7 SA MARSHALL. .E, RUTLAND, .
SAN MITH 7/19-16/63 :
Chicago’ "Sun Times" Reporter : ? :
CG. T=8 SA WILLQAM F..ROEMER, JR
UG 6a88=PC-TE 7/16/63" eae
CG .T-9
CG_T-10

jC

a (requested) c

|A J, STERLING ADAMS
nolulu. Division, 6/1/63

COVER PAGE

DocId:32317792 Page 3
