# docid-32297458

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10219-10234

HQ

92-2914-294

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

FANNING, JAMES B.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/20/1963

11

GM, SMO, ASSOC, INDICTMENT, FGJ, TAX EVASIONS, BKG,

BUSS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32297458

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

PG 92-236

PITTSBURGH

AT PITTSBURGH, PA. (ALLEGHENY COUNTY)

Will follow and report activities of MANNARINO

and his associates in accordance with Bureau instructions.

ADMINISTRATIVE

During the period of this report close liaison

has been maintained with Special Agents of the Intelligence

Division,

IRs, Pittsburgh, Pa.,

who are conducting an

investigation concerning subject's activities.

Fisurs conducted by Miami Agents on 3/14/63, were

conducted by SAs C. GRAHAM HURST, LARRY A. FABLE and

ELMER C. MULIEN. Surveillances conducted on 3/15, 1

8 19/63,

were conducted by Miami Agent C. GRAHAM HURST.

on 5/13/63, film clips Of GABRIEL MANNARINO appearing

at U. S. Commissioner's

Hearing at Pittsburgh, Pa., were

obtained by SA JAMES B. FANNING.

INFORMANT'S

I symbols utilized in this report will be the same

where applicable as those used in reports back to and

including that of 7/28/61.

PG T-32 is PIttsburgh 640-CTE

PG I-35 IS PCI GENE HOWARD MC CUTCHEON, JR.

PG T-39 1S PG 657-CTE

PG T-38 1S PCI JAMES W. BURGART

MM T-2 is Miami 509-CTE

- B*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32297458

Page 2

---

## Page 3

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

BUREA, PENSIVEATION

May 20, 1963.

GABRIEL MANNARINO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Reference is made to the report of Special

Agent JAMES B. FANNING, Pittsburgh, dated May 20, 1963.

There follows a brief characterization of

informants used in referenced report.

PG T-32 is a business man in Mercer County,

Pa., who has a life-time association with gamblers and

racketeers; who will not testify and who has furnished

reliable information in the past.

PG T-35 is an individual who has worked in

numerous racket setups in Westmoreland and Allegheny

Counties, both Pennsylvania; who will not testify and

who has

furnished reliable information in the past.

PG T-39 is a gambler and club operator in

Pittsburgh, Pa.; who will not testify and who has furnished

reliable information in the past.

PG T-38 is an individual who has been connected

with gambling activities in the New Kensington, Pa., area

for almost fifteen years; who will not testify

and who

has furnished reliable information in the past.

elements on a dally basis in the Miami, Florida, area; who

we not be dant

MM T-2 is an individual who mingles with criminal

will not testify and who has furnished reliable information

in the past.

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI..

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned

to your agency; it and its contents are not

to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32297458 Page 3

---

