# docid-32288968

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

• 124-10200-10244

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-1119, 1120, 1121

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: AMBLER, JOHN A.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/08/1966

PAGES:

71

SUBJECTS :

LST, ASSOC, LCN, B/F INT, FISUR, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 2 REPORTS

v9.1

DocId: 32288968

Page

1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERA. BUREAU OF IN_STIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

TAMPA

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

DATE

5/9/66

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/2 - 5/5/66

SA JOHN A. AMBLER

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED BY

mW

REFERENCES:

lampa report of sA JOHN A. AMBLER, 4/13/66.

Los Angeles letter to Director, 4/27/66, captioned

"La Cosa Nostra".

-P-

REVIEWED BY POUSE TASK ARE

ON

ENCLOSURES:

1031/96 dot

A RELEASE IN FUAL

TO BUREAU

HELEASE IN PART

Original and one copy of IHM, charaeter DNA informants used

in this report.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

By letter dated 5/9/66, Tampa submitted appropriate copies of

LHM, captioned "RICHARD EDWARD VALDES", for appropriate dissemination

in view of information contained therein that VALDES, who is the son-

in-law of TRAFFICANTE, had been appointed comnissioned officer in

U. S. Navy.

Op

5/4/66, files of the USA's Office, MDF, Tampa, Fla., concerning

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

3) - Bureau (92-2781) (Enee&)

92-

2781-1/2/

- USA,

3

lampa

REC- 47

- Miami (92-88)

(1 - USA, Miami, Attn:

Mr.

BRIAN GETTINGS, Dept. Attorney) 16 MAY 11 1966

2

- San Juan

2

- St. Louis

- Tampa (92-1)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

CC. AAG. Criminal Division,

Organized Crime and Racketeering

Section, Boor 25 paL/

: 3/18/16

57 MAY 1J

1866

DocId: 32288968 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

CIvil DoCket No. 4291 and 4094, were reviewed and retlect

that Netherlands Insurance Company had in Answer to Interroga-

indicated that the Netherlands Insurance Company did,

on 5/4/61, issue policy No: 888599 covering property located

at 2801 Nebraska Avenue, Tampa, Florida,

known as the Dream

Bar; that the policy was a standard fire insurance policy

covering the structure only to the maximum extent of $10,000,

with the insured being listed as the Estate of SANTO TRAFFICANTE,

SR • g

SANTO TRAFFICANTE,

JR., SAM TRAFFICANTE and FRANK TRAFFI-

CANTE. Answer

further indicated that the Netherlands insurance

Company was not aware of the identity of the party applying

and that the agency handling the application was Spradlin

Insurance Agency, which was no longer in existence and that

the records for 1961 had apparently been destroyed.

INFORMANTS:

The following listed informants were contacted by

SA JOHN A. AMBLER, unless otherwise indicated.

TP T-l is TP. 120-C.

TP T-2 is TP 246-C, contacted by SA JOHN R. BRETT.

TP T-3 is TP 41-C.

TP T-4 is PCI JAMES PATE FERRERA, contacted by

SA WILLIS R. SMITH.

TP T-5 is LA 4691-C-TE, identity of contacting

Agent unknown.

TP T-6 is TP 182-C-TE, contacted by SA JAMES B.

HAFLEY •

TP T-? is Mr. ALTON M. BRYANT, Security Director,

General Telephone Company of Florida, Tampa, Fla., (by

request).

TP T-8 is TP 249-PC.

TP T-9 15 TP 97-0.

IP T-10 is Sgt. JACK DE LA LLANA, Intelligence

Unit, Tampa PD (by request)

- B

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32288968 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TP 92-1

TP T-11 is TP 155-C.

TP T-12 is GENE MASON, Security Department,

General Telephone Company of Florida, Tampa (by request).

LEADS:

MIAMI DIVISION

AT MIAMI, FLA:

(1) Will recontact PAT CAMISA, 6953 Harding friend

who was last contacted during 1963, and who is a close

Of TRAFFICANTE'S Miami, Florida landlord, in an attempt to

determine if CAMMISA has had recent access to TRAFFICANTE'S

apartment, and to determine possibility of developing CAMMISA

source being in a position to furnish information con-

cerning TRAFFICANTE's whereabouts.

(2) In view of information indicating TRAFFICANTE

traveling to unknown destinations during periods of time

when he is believed to be in Miami, it is suggested that

Miami

attempt to establish neighborhood source in a position

to furnish information on a day-to-day basis concerning

TRAFFICANTE's location.

*(3) Will report results of investigation previously

requested and re-stated in report of SA JOHN A. AMBLER

dated 4/13/66.

SAN JUAN DIVISION

AT SAN JUAN, P. R.

Will contact appropriate sources familiar with

the hoodlum element and exhibit photograph of TRAFFICANTE

which is contained in

San Juan.

ST. LOUIS DIVISION

AT ST. LOUIS, MO.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32288968 Page 1

---

## Page 5

TP 92-1

including photograph and attempt to determine reason why

VALENTI would travel to Florida to contact

subject

TAMPA DIVISION

AT TAMPA, FLA:

(1) Will interview MANUEL FERNANDEZ, City sanitation

Department,

for information concerning TRAFFICANtE, It being

noted FERNANDEZ apparently recently in Miami and possibly

in contact with TRAFFICANTE and TRAFFICANTE's attorney, FRANK

RAGAN, while in that area.

(2) Will maintain close contact with TP 120-C, for

any information this individual may be able to obtain con-

cerning. TRAFFICANTE's alleged trips.

(3) Will report results of investigation previously

requested of Atlanta and Newark.

AT ST. PETERSBURG, FLA.

Will, at Warner Construction Company, 1234 34th

Street South,

who, during 1/66, on two occasions contacted TRAFFICANTE'S

associate, DINO CELLINI.

if deemed appropriate, interview to determine possible

South 1/66 BLAINT intervie

attempt to determine identity of individual

Will, when identity is established,

association with TRAFFICANTE and association with TRAFFICANTE's

associate, CELLINI.

D*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32288968

Page

---

## Page 6

FD ?63 (Rev. 5-1-59).

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

TAH PA

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR, 2ka

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

APR : : 1966

4/4 - 4/6/66

REPORT MADE BY

SA JOHN A. AMBLER

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

TYPED BY

DB

REFERENCES:

Report of sA JOiN A. AMBLER, 3/8/66.

Newark letter to Miami, 3/24/66. (I0)

Tampa letter to Atlanta, 4/1/66: (IO)

Miami airtel to Tampa, 3/31/66. (I0)

Tampa airtel to Miant, 4/5/66. (10)

Chicago letter to Tampa 3/22/66. (I0)-

captioned FRANK RAGANO.

Atlanta letter to Tampa, 3/25/66(I0).

-P-

Extery

ENCLOSURES:

TO BUREAU

Enclosed is original and one copy of LHl characterizing

informants used in attached report.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

january 24, 1966, a green Cadillac convertible

bearing Georgia License 1A 12559 registered to RALPH EKBERRY,

4644 ben, Hill.Road, E. Point Ges.,

was observed at TRAFFICANTE's

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGEN

IN CHARGI

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

3-Bureau (92-2781) (Enetet2)

I-USA,

Tampa

92-278141120

2-Atlanta (92-135)

3-Miami (92-88)

(I-USA, Miami,

Attn: BRIAN GETTINGS)

2-Newark (92-498)

11 APR 14 1966

2-Tampa Tampa (92-1)

IC.C.

Dissemination Record of Attached Repor

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

Notations

CC. AAG, Crimiunt Dinsion,

Organized Crime and Hacketeeriu

Section, Room 252t

4/30

REC 17:

DocId: 32288968 Page 6

---

## Page 7

TP 92-1

Miami, Fla., residence.

Investigation previously conducted

by Atlanta Division reflects that in 1962 EKBERRY was co-maker

on a note in the amount of $3,000 at the Bank of Georgia,

Atlanta,

a1ong with urs. GLENDA G. HANKS, 1129 Selvin

Ave., S.W.,

G? Atlanta, Ga., With HANKS further being identified

as a girl friend of JAMES E. BARKER, Atlanta, Ga., who had

dealings with ALLEN DORFHAN, a JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA

associate.

During 1961 CG 6386-l*, advised that the leader of organized

crime in Chicago at that time SAM GIANCANA, informed a close

associate that the associate should make contact with "DORFMAN"

in order to obtain a loan from JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA because

"DORFMAN belonged to HOFFA".

Although-st 1s not known whether

in this instance GIANCANA WaS referring tO ALLIN DORFMAN Or

to bis

father, PAUL, the distinction would make little

difference, in

that both are closely associated in the insurance

business in Chicago:

On April 6, 1966, the files of the Ü.S. Attorney's

office,

Middle District of Fla., Tampa, Fla.,

concerning

civil docket 4291 and 4294, were reviewed and reflected that

by letter dated 3/24/66, directed to WESLEY R. THEIS, Clerk,

District Court, MDF, Tampa, Fla., TRAFFICANTE"s attorney

ARTHUR B. CUNNINGHAM submitted Answer to Interrogatory as re-

quired by U.S. District Court Judge JOSEPH P. LIEB.

answer it was sworn to and suscribed to on March 23 before

CUNNINGHAM and It was signed by SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR. TRAFFICANTE

claimed that he did not own of have any interest in any assets

other than those listed in his statement of net worth dated

12/13/64 which was attached to offer ta compromise.

TRAFFICANTE

also claimed that A. J. WRIGHT was deceased, that the amount

loaned to WRIGHT was $8, 000 at 6% interest and that the loan

had been made prior to October, 1948. TRAFFICANTE also dis-

claimed ownership. of 1960 Ford Falcon and indicated that the

only property which he had transferred since 1945, which

had a fair market value in excess of $200, was property described

as Lot 16 and 17, Block 3, Parkland Estates, Tampa, Fla., valued

at 936, 750.00, which had been sold to VINCENT and JEAN AMATO,

195 N.E. 19th Ave., N. Miami Beach, Fla.

EOUSA

REVIENED BY FEJJFK TASK FORCE

COVER PAGE

ON 10/31/96 dAb/OW/TH

*ZEBASE IN FULL

I TOTAL DEMAL

DocId:32288968 Page 7

---

## Page 8

TP 92-1

INFORMANTS:

TP Tl is TP 120-C

Contacted by SA JOHN A. AMBLER

TP T2 is Mrs. GEORGE

HUBER, 528 N.E. 72nd St., Miami,

Fla., by (request).

TP T 3 Is PCI JAMES EMORY

WIGH

Contacted by SA PAUL A. SCRANTON

TP T4 is TP 41-C

Contacted by SA JOHN A. AMBLER

•99

TP T5 is TP 246-C

Contacted by SA JOHN R. BRETT

TP T 6 is Mrs. JOHN KREGE,

Apt: 2, 1538 Farnell. Rd.,

Decatur, Ga., by (request).

TP T7 is CG 6443-C-TE

Contacted by SA JOHN GRANFIELD

Contacted by unknown Agent. iT

TP T8 is TP 249-PC

Contacted by SA JOHN A. AMBLER

TP T9 is PCI RAY LA PORTE

TP TIO IS TP 235-PC

LEADS:

ATLANTA DIVISION

AT ATLANTA, GA. *

Will, at Southern Bell Telephone and Teleg. Company,

determine identity of subscriber to number 836-649T, who was

called

July 10, 1965 froM TRAFFICANTE'S Tampa residence. Will,

thereafter conduct credit and criminal record check and if

deemed appropriate, interview this individual to determine degree

of association with subject.

C

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32288968 Page 8

---

## Page 9

TP 92-1

AT EAST POINT, GA.

Will, interview RALPH EKBERRY, 2644 Ben Hill Road,

to determine degree of association with subject, it being

noted EKBERRY's automobile was observed during January, 1966

at TRAFFICANTE's Miami, Fla., residence.

Will also determine if EKBERRY acquainted with

ALLEN Or PAUL DORMAN, Chicago, Ill., and if any known

association between DORFMAN and TRAFFICANTE.

MIAMI DIVISION

AT MIAMI, FLA.

(1) Will contact appropriate official, Southern

Bell Telephone and Telegraph Co., and determine "Identity

of subscriber to 379-0272, called September 7, 1965, from

the TRAFFICANTE Tampa residence and to telephone number

754-1748, who was called Aug. 2, Sept. 3, and 9, from the

Tampa residence.

(2)

Will recontact MM 1025-C concerning his

having observed an individual whom he described as TRAFFICANTE's

daughter, driving a Buick Riviera, as results of investigation

have not previously indicated that either daughter of TRAFFICANTE

has & Buick Riviera.

Onlykown cars available to the TRAFFICANTE

family are two 1965 white Dodge Darts, a bluish green 1964

Chevelle, and a blue 4-door 1966 Dodge.

(3) Will contact officials, Medley Enterprises,

Inc., - Tallow Masters, Scott Road, and determine if SANTO

TRAFFICANTE or any of

his brothers have ever been stockholders

in

_this Corporation.

(4)...

Will Interview J. E. HUMBER, 140 NW 77th St.,

Apt. 6, for any information he may have concerning TRAFFICANTE,

as an automobile registered to HUMBER was observed at the

TRAFFICANTE residence on 8/4/65.

D

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32288968

Page y

---

## Page 10

•FD=263 (F

9-17-651

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

TAMPA

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.,

aka

DATE

3/8/66

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/2-3/7/66

REPORT MADE BY

SA JOHN A. AMBLER

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED B)

REFERENCES

Case has been

APPROVED

COPIES MAD

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

105

DocId: 32288968

Page 10

ENCLOSURES

Report of SA JOHN A. AMBLER, 2/8/66,

at Tampa.

Tampa letter to the Director, 3/2/66.

-P-

TO THE BUREAU

Original and one copy of LHM characterizing

informants used in attached

report.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Information

from records of the General Telephone

Company of Florida was made available by H. W. Huff, Cen-

tralized Toll Investigations, General Telephone Company of

Florida.

ending, over one year O Yes

@ No; Pending prosecution over six months • Yes No

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

92-2781 =

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

1119 RES-21

Bureau (92-2781) (E

USA, Tampa

1

- USA,

Miami

• CATTN:

GETTINGS,

BRIAN

Dept. Attorney)

2 - Tampa (92-1)

8 MAR

11 1966

04 D

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

CC. AAC, Criminal Division,

Organised Ci

intricating

Socipe in 252y

1130

---

## Page 11

TP 92-1

On 3/4/66.

files of

the USA's Office, MDF, Tampa,

Fia., concerning Civil Case #4291 and 4294 involving

TRAFFICANTE and his brothers, HENRY and SALVATORE,

were

reviewed and reflect that on 1/27/66 U. S. of America as

plaintiff filed interrogatories with SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

ET AL and Netherlands Insurance Company, ET AL as defendants.

Plaintiff requested the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company

as one of the defendants to furnish information as to

whether the insurance company had issued any insurance policy

other than Policy numbers 7356569C: and 757/785C on the life

Of SANTO TRAFFICANTE,

JR. and in connection with the two

mentioned policies were requested to answer certain questios

concerning dates policies issued, amount paid as premiums,

name and address of person having right to claim cash

surrender value, and the present cash surrender value

In another Interrogatory filed the same date

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR. was requested to advise whether he

owned or had an interest in any assets other than thöse set

forth in his Statement of Net Worth

dated 12/31/64, which

was

attached to an Offer in Compromise previously submitted:

TRAFFICANTE waS

also requested to fully identify any such

property described in answer to the above, was also requested

to furnish pertain information concerning A. J. WRIGHT, and

to state whether or not he had transferred any property

since 1945 which property had a fair market value in excess

of $200:00. If TRAFICANTE answered the clause immediately

above in the affirmative,

he was to then identify the property,

and

identify the transferee of each such conveyance.

On 2/17/66

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company

furnished an Answer. to an Interrogatory directed to it as

mentioned above

indicating that the only two policies

issued on the life of SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR. were #7356569C

issued 9/8/42 and #7577785C issued 11/20/45, and that the

current

cash surrender value of the first-listed policy was

$4,838.00 and the second as $4,055.00

INFORMANTS

TP T-1 1s TP 120-C

TP T-2 1S TP. 41-C*

TP T-3 IS PCI JAMES EMORY WIGH

EOUSA

REVIEWED BY FEWJFK TASK FORCE

ON 10/31/96 dAb/Du/10

X RELEASE IN FULL

DO: RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

B

COVER PAGE

Docid: 32288960 Page 11

---

## Page 12

TP::92-1

TP. T-4 1s TP 148-PC contacted by SA JOHN R. BRETT

TP. T-5 is TP 97-C*

TP T-6 is"Mr. GENE MASON,

Security Department,

General Telephone Company of Florida (by request)

LEADS

TAMPA DIVISION

AT TAPA, FLA:

1. - Will, at the General Telephone Company,

deter-

mine identity of subscriber to telephone number 862-9541,

who, during January, 1966, on two occasions was in telephonic

contact with TRAFTICANTE associate DINO CELLINI, Miami, Fla.

Will conduct credit and criminal record checks

on JOSEPH M.

GULLO, 1011 N

Armenia, who, during January,

1966, was in telephonic contact with TRAFFICANTE's Miami,

Fla. apartment:

Will thereafter, if deemed appropriate,

interview GULLO to determine degree of association with the

subject.

C*

COVER

PAGE

Docid: 32288968 Page 12

---

