JFK Assassination System Date: 5/28/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

REGORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Identification Form
Agency Information Feleased under the John
. Kennedy
FBI Assassination Records
124-10222-10235 : ollection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note).
HQ ‘aseg:NU 45852 Date:
b4-o6-z018
92-2914-22X1
Document Information
FBI
SAC, PG

DIRECTOR, FBI

04/14/1958
5

SM, ASSOC, INCOME TAX RETURNS, CRIMINAL ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4; 11(a)

Redact

05/14/1998

INDEFINITE

v9.1

| NW 45852 DocId:32298459 Page 1


PG 92-236

Records of the Pittsburgh Credit Bureau, Inc., Pittsburgh

Police Department, Allegheny County Detective Bureau, all
3 Pittsburgh, Pa., and public records in Westmoreland County
1 were examined by Investigative Clerk GEORGE C. DIPPOLD.

Records of the Credit Bureau of New Kensington and Arnold,
Pa., were reviewed by SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE. :

Records of the Pittsburgh PD were made available by Chief
Identification Officer THOMAS MC QUAIDE, of the Allegheny
County Detective Bureau by Chief Identification Officer
PATRICK MC CORMICK, of the Pittsburgh Credit Bureau Inc.
by ALYCE TAFELSKI, Clerk, of ‘the Credit Bureau of New
Kensington and Arnold, Pa., by PATRICIA GEORGE, File Clerk.

Pittsburgh file.

Miami Office.

the period

. - uniformity.

Records of the Passport Office, Department of State,
Washington, D. C., were reviewed by SE ALFRED H. KRECKMAN.

Records of the Bureau of Vital Statistics, Harrisburg, Pa.,
q = were reviewed by IC FRANK D. ALTOBELLI.

i The San Juan Office on 2/25/58, advised that contact with.
additional informants familiar with gambling activities on
the Island of Puerto Rico failed to develop any information
| indicating subject's interest in legitimate enterprises or
gambling interests in that area.
informants, as well as informants contacted by the Little
Rock and New York Offices, who were unable to furnish any
information of value concerning the subject are not revealed
herein but rather are being made a matter of record in the

SIDNEY LEVINE, 650--72nd Street, Miami Beach, Florida, mentioned
herein under the main heading "TRAVEL" is a former PCI of the

LEADS

The Bureauiwas asked _to obtain from the
ri Fi

of SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE, Pittsburgh, 4,
{ MANNARINO was., AR" and is being repeated herein as a matter of

~2

This request also iy in the report
[4/5

ADMINISTRATIVE (CONTINUED)

The identities of San Juan

New Kensington, Pa., for

8 captioned "SAMUEL

[la

HW 45852 DocId:32298459 Page 2


CON eS, HAC

PG 92-236
LEADS (CONTINUED)
PITTSBURGH ,
AT NEW KENSINGTON, PA. (WESTMORELAND COUNTY

ae Will maintain regular contact with PCIs MIKE ZERVOS,

WALTER J. SHARKEY and PG 545-C for the purpose of :
developing current information regarding subject's legitimate
enterprises, criminal activities and associates. E

2. Will re-interview WILLIAM ADAMS, owner of the Adams

Music Company, for the “purpose of identifying the two
collection men employed’ by the Nu-Ken Novelty Company as
well as any other information ADAMS may be able to furnish
regarding subject's current activities.

3. Will re-contact MARSHALL HOLT and his wife, ANNA, 536
Charles Avenue, to obtain any-information they may have
been able to develop since last contacted.

AT PITTSBURGH, PA. (ALLEGHENY COUNTY)

1. Will report results of background and financial ability
investigation being conducted in Athens and Perias, Greece,

concerning GEORGE HAZIDAKIS. (Investigation requested in

Pittsburgh letter to Bureau, 3/5/58) Gu)

ey fitnen the investigation in Greece is completedfand after
receiving copies of income tax returns filed by

will have the material examined by a Special Agent Accountan

to determine whether a possible income tax violation exists.

3.

ill report results of investigation conducted by the

gal Attache, Havana, Cuba, concerning the allegation

that NORMAN ROTHMAN, in. cooperation with subject, may have

slot machines operating in the interior of Cuba (Investigation ]
requested in Pittsburgh letter to Bureau, 3/21/58.)

4, will report results of investigation being conducted by the
Miami.and Chicago Offices to verify slot machine shipment

on the part of SAMUEL MANNARINO to NORMAN ROTHMAN in Cuba.:’ |

(Investigation requested in Pittsburgh letter to Bureau, 3/21/58)

5. Will report results of contact with confidertial informants

in Los Angeles, California, concerning the allegation that
the MANNARINO brothers attempted to set up operations in that
city in 1950. (Investigation requested in Pittsburgh airtel
to Los Angeles, 2/25/58.)

HW 45852 DocId:32298459 Page 3



* CONFIBRITIAL

PG 92-236 ;
LEADS (CONTINUED )

6. Will report results of investigation being conducted by
the Los Angeles and New York Offices to further identify
and establish background information and possible relationship
of ARCHIE MANNARINO to the. MANNARINO brothers. (Investigation
requested in Pittsburgh airtel to Los Angeles, cc New York,

3/15/58.)

7. Will report toll calls emanating from subject's home in

New Kensington when the information is obtained by the
Bureau from the Senate Select Committee Improper Activities
in the Labor Management Field.

8. Will, if available for interview, contact PG 509-C for
information regarding subject's current activities.

9. Will recontact PG 564-c for information regarding subject's
eurrent activities. :

10, Will re-interview NORMA GRILLO to determine when her

‘ discussion with GABRIEL MANNARING regarding the opening
of a house of prostitution occurred. Will also obtain from
GRILLO background information concerning arrangements subject
is said to have made with her in the past to entertain his out-
of-town friends in Pittsburgh. It is noted that PCI MARIAN
FOGEL on 1/22/58 remarked that subject paid large sums of money
to GRILLO in the past for the purpose of entertaining out-of-
town associates.

11. Will recontact PCI MARIAN FOGEL to determine whether she
has developed any additional information regarding the

allegation that the MANNARINO brothers have been frequenting

the Blue Spruce Motel, Route 22, Murrysville, Pa., and may have

a gambling establishment in operation at that location. Will,

in the light of information furnished by FOGEL, consider the

possible contacting of the management of Blue. Spruce Motel to

verify or disprove subject's alleged activities at that location.

12. will report results of investigation being congucted in
Morgantown, W. Va., concerning the allegationgdeveloped in
Havana, Cuba,fithat the MANNARINO brothers are generally

that city.

:
|
1
i

Se]

considered t6 control horse betting and numbers operation in [x] :
i

ies

HW 45852 DocId:32298459 Page 4

/

/
