# docid-32296196

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10216-10472

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2918-23RD NR 96

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, PG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/16/1961

2

SMO, GM, ASSOC, PRIMARY ELECTIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32296196

Page 1

53

---

## Page 2

5/16/61

AIR TEL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2914) (92-2918)

FROM: SAG, PITTSBURGH (92-236) (92-228)

SUBJECT: GABRIEL MANNARINO; aka.

SAMUEL

MANVARINO, aka.

AR

on 5/16/61, FO 615-0 advised SA CHOMAS Q. FORSYTH,

III, that he

heard that

KELLY MANNARINO was backing ineumbent Major RAYMOND

GARDLOCK of New Kensington, Pa., in his efforte to seek

re-nomination in the Primary Elections on 5/16/61, while SAN

MANNARINO was in favor of the nontnation of opposing candidece

EDWARD ZALESKL.

on 5/16/61, PCI FETER BONBIK, New

Kensington, advised SA

FORSYTH:

On 5/10/61, New Kensington Mayor RAYMOND GARDLOCK Visited the

Bonfdre Restaurant, Leechburg Road, Allegheny Township,

Weetnoreland Canty,

Pa. He was confronted by SAM MANNARINO,

who stated that GARDLOCK had "a lot of guts" coming to the

restaurant to see SAM.

MANNARING ordered GARDLOCK off the

premises and told him never to come there again.

WANNAR INO

added that his greatest desire nas to see GARDLOCK "lose the

election by a landslide."

Bureau

3- 92-2914

→ 3: 92-2918

4 - PICtaburgh*

1 - 92-236

- 92-228

- 137-942

- 137-new

( PETER

BOMBIK)

122-2918-

NOT RECORDED

78 MAY

23

1961

TGE: eng

(10)

1381

56 MAY 2 5 1968

DocId: 32296196

Page 2

ORIGINAL PLED IN 92-9914-14

---

## Page 3

F0 92-236

PO 92-228

When KELEY became fully aware of the extent of BURGAN?'S

Lucrative wagering

buainess, he felt that BURGARs BRoUid

i bo

"pulled Into line"

with the other anall operators in the Now

Kensington area and forced to becone a low-level port of the

organization by turning in all wagere

to MANNARINO COZeOtOrS.

BUNGARD has consistently refused, with the resuls that KOLLY

lo Increasingly annoyed and lately has been trying to steal

BURGART Is long-time customere-

He has done this through threate

of physical harm, by spreading rumors that DURGART 10 not

financially able to pay wine, and by attempting to have dow

Kensington police herass BURGART.

Ibis latter move has been

unsuccessful because of BURGART'e close friendship with rayer

RAYMOND GARDLOCK.

On the other hand, the other methods used

by KELLY VANARINO have been more duccessful, and EUROART'S

buelness

has suffered a

lose of almost one-half.

Because of the above, BURGART 1e willing to osaise tae bot an

any fachion, except that he lo insistent that he bast never, uncor

any eircuntances, tastify at any sort of proceedine. toca

Pederal. A PCI file will be opened concerning SUROARS.

0n 5/19/62, PO 615-C advised SA PORSYN as followe:

SAM MANHARINO has fixed up a room in the bosement of the Bonfire

Restaurant, near Leechburg. Far, nich looks ap though te coule

be used as a meeting place. Intormant mats subait a drawing of

this roon and ite relationt other parte of the building.

GADRIEL MANNARINO has aequired a mated pair of Dobernan Pinschor

doss, along with

The older doge have been trained

"attack

excese of

$8,000

BOYM SUBJECRS SHOULD BI CONSIDENDD ARRED AND DANGEROUS.

2

DocId: 32296196

Page 3

---

