# docid-32328526

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90076-10041

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-153045-18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

05/11/1967

' PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

GUILLERMO LUIS FIGUEROA ALFONSO

MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32328526

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1982 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES

VERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

many the

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-153045)

DATE:

5/11/67

SAC, MIAMI (105-11216) (P)

GUILLERMO LUIS FIGUEROA ALFONSO, aka

IS - CUBA

00: New York

Re Miami letter to Bureau 1/19/67.

It is noted subject,

an airplane pilot, was formerly

with the Cuban Revolutionary Air Force and Cubana Airlines.

He defected on March 22, 1966, from Cubana

Airlines and

entered the US from Canada on September 8,11966.

In December, 1966, subject was involved in an

abortive invasion of Haiti attempt by ROLANDOWASFERRER

ROJAS, a Cuban exile in Miami.

On January 1, 1967,

MASFERRER and

51 of his men were arrested; later seven

were indicted. The subject was not arrested or indicted.

On January 17,

1967, MARCOS DIAZ

LANZ, 7951 ON.

36th Terrace.

Miami, advised

that he had been a

member of

the Cuban Revolutionary Air Force and had worked with

GUILLERMO LUIS FIGUEROA ALTONSO, whom he described as

the

"right-arm" of FIDEL CASTRO, Prime Minister of Cuba.

DIAZ

said that FIGUEROA also worked closely with RAUL CASTRO,

Cuban Defense Minister.

DIAZ claimed that FIGUEROA was a militant

Communist and was responsible for many people being executed

in Cuba after CASTRO took power on January 1, 1959. DIAZ

accused FIGUEROA of making charges against other Cubans in

Cuba withoatyany bases for his accusations and did anything

he could to see these people were executed.

DIAZ said he

felt that FIGUEROA was an undesirable individual and shock

not be allowed to remain in the

AT AS ATION CONTAINED®

Bureau (RM)

2

- New York (105-82968) (RM):

12195 S08mACGR

1 - Miami

RJD: kC

(5)

n105-153045-18

2 MAY 15 1967

56 MAY 22 1967|

÷0-108-01

LATIN ARICANY

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

/ DocId: 32328526

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-11216

On April 11, 1967, MM 639-S advised that the

subject has had no pro- or anti-CASTRO activities since

his involvement with MASFERRER in December, 1966.

Informant said he had no reason to believe

the subject

is acting as a CASTRO agent in the US.

On April 20, 1967, EVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ, Key

Source - Cuban, advised that he has associated with the

subject over a

number of years and considers him an

opportunist and mercenary and has no reasón to believe

that the subject has Communist sympathies.

ALPIZAR stated

subject is presently residing at Immokalee, Florida, and

is employed as a crop-duster pilot at Immokalee. ALPIZAR

said FIGUEROA's wife and children cóntinue to live in Cuba.

FIGUEROA is a controversial figure but has

no current

political activities.

New York Office is requested to submit FD-128

with pertinent serials for the completion of the miami file.

DocId: 32328526

Page

---

