# docid-32303529

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10284-10041

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 100-42303-594

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE:

FBI

MADVAY, J. EDWARD

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/12/1959

PAGES:

61

SUBJECTS:

SMO, ASSOC, SJL, AMATO, FRANK, MAFIA, DEVELOPMENT,

BKG, INTV, LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32303529

9

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PG 94-363

INFORMANTS

PG I-I iS PCI GEORGE "MOON" MESSER contacted by

SA ROBERT A. VOEGE.

PG T-2 is PG 536-C contacted by SA THOMAS C. ALLEN.

LEADS

PITTSBURGH

AT PITTSBURGH, PA. (ALLEGHENY COUNTY)

1. Will contact Bureau of Narcotics for any information

compiled on organized groups.

2. Will report results.of interviews with West Virginia

and Western Pennsylvania state and/or local law

enforcement officers or other responsible persons

who are being interviewed and who might logically

have past or present information about organized

crime, Mafia,

'"Black Hand"groups, organizations,

syndicates, etc.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32303529

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 94-363

A. BACKGROUND

1. Origin and Development

The Pennsylvania State Police furnished the Pittsburgh FBI

Office a copy of a report dated October 14, 1942, which was

written by Detective JOHN CHRIN, Pennsylvania State Police (PSP),

entitled "Mafia Society's Activities in Labor," in which

Detective CHRIN referred to several prominent

Western

Pennsylvania racketeers as members of the Black Hand or of

he darta: that"

No evidence is contained in CHRIN's report to

the effect that these racketeers are actually Mafia members,

but merely refers to then as such.

CHRIN, in his report, also mentioned the society known as the

Rosa, benelicial association organized by JaCk &ANCELLIERE,

a North side, Pittsburgh, racketeer, and composed of a group of

fellow Sicilians, as an organization of Pennsylvania Black

Handers. Unverified allegations have come to the attention

office from other sources to the effect that the

Milla

Rosa Society might be a Black Hand group.

In Detective CHRIN's report, he indicates that in 1942, there

were at least two hundred members of the Black Hand in

Pittsburgh and vicinity.

PG .T-I, who has furnished reliable information in the past,

during a discussion about the Mafia, ladvised that the term

Marla was never used when he was a partner of JOHN LA ROCCA

SAM

LANNARINO and FRANK AMATO in a business relationship.

• He

said that his partners were. referred to by everyone, including

himself, as "Black Handers" and that they employed a group of

Italian

toughs who carried out collection duties. He said

that most of these toughs carried no guns or knives, but were

armed constantly with a twelve inch to filteen inch cue stick

which they sawed off and weighted with lead.

He said that a

hole bored in the end of the sawed off cue stick was filled

with

the lead and was then corked. He advised that he carried one

himself for many years and would still have it if he had not

left it in the glove compartment of an automobile he sold. He

said that this cue stick was given to him by MikE Noves,"

its original owner, who told him to use it

He said that during this period the local hoodlums and' toughs

had great respect for the power and temper of LA ROCCA who was

- 2 -

DocId:32303529

Page 3

---

