# docid-32576376

## Page 1

1/19/65

MAILED 19

JAN 30 1935

COMM-FBI

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SACe, Bes too

Buffalo

Los Angeles

Milwaukee

Miemi

Director, FBI

Newest

New Orleans

Philadelphie

Springfield

Tampa

RA COSA NOSTRA

AR = CONSPIRAMT

Rokhairtel 1/6/ss and Sutel 1/18/95.

For information of offices not designated copses

of rolAnirtel, infornation has been developed from

IA 4148-C-T2, a veteran member of the Los Angeleo *family"

: "boss" o1, that

ol an Coon Matron That Wrens Destrong 1/25/06 to neet

"family," is to be in New Yors City on

with the "comission.

Inforuant has been toid

by Nick Licata, "under-

boss" 01 the Los Angoles "Lamily, " that Denimone le represont*

ing a sunber of analler Western U. S. La Cosa Nostza groups

with the "commiesion," and that

after conterring with this

top ruling group, Desinone will be couveying results to

these Westen groups whom he represents.

Though informant

is not aware spookfically of the identittes of groups to

be contacted by Desimone, it is logical to assume, based

on previous information,

chat Dealtone w111 be regrosenting

San Jose and San Francisco,

calisoria; sroupse in aaazizou

do the son Diego group, which is actually pact

ot the

Los Angeles "family," and my woll be representing groups

in Texas, Colorado and Loutsiana.

Because of the potential

for the development of valuable

inforuation rogarding

heretoloro unknown Le Casa Nostra groups in

this country,

an extrenely discreet surve lance is being maintaned on

Desimone to alford coverage or his trip to and from..

New Yorks, Clue f

182

REC 20

1 JAN B2, 19865

2.016H.02

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO..

Tolson

Belmont

Mchr

DeLooch -

Casper.

Callahon

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivon .

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Roor

Holmes

Gandy

898

Plass

FINO

FJAN 28000

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32576376

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Airtel to Bostong

Ne:

La Case Mostra

ad.

Rebutol has aduleod Los

Angelen to maintain

particulorly close contret wich La

4948-C-TE for possible

notico of Desimone's dote and todo ot

Now York City, and to cloaely coordinato thoir netivity

with othor intercated offioes.

Los Angeles; San Diogo and

other offlecs have been instmeted to handlo

this master

with goat care inasauch a expertonoo in the past has

detormined Desimone jo be extremoly surveillance conscious.

Officos have also benn instructed that in order to mintain

the continuity of our plan, and to mintain security or the

ourvesthance of besianne, tat such sure tance oy

oftices participnting chould bo temporarily discontimed,

3 condinuanco nould "burn"" Desireng.

AlL offices having bources covering "cornission".

activity.

and paaticularly those reporting on zecent

developmonts pertaining to "coinsion" sotion against

the Bonanno "Zamily" ore to matntain comtant contact

with boy sources in on ettort to enlarge on our knouledge

Of plons the "countscion" my bave to confer in the Nev

Tors City area on 1/25/65.

This matter ts to roceive top priority handling

and

the bureau must bo kept advised of all signiticant

developments:

NOTE:

In order that all offices having coverage of

"commission" members and top level La Cosa Nostra activity

will be alert for a possible "commission" gathering in the

New York City area 1/25/65, additional offices to whom this

airtel is sent are being alerted to the information received

from the Los Angeles informant and regarding instructions for a

discreet surveillance of Los Angeles La Cosa

Nostra "Boss"

Des imone.

It is noted that informant has advised that Desimone

is to be

in the New York City area 1/25/65 to meet with the

"commission" and that he will be representing a number of

smaller Western U. S. La Cosa Nostra groups at this meeting.

1C VER OR TOBACE

EB 1

* 80

ThIs 203340l0

HECEIAED- CETE

DocId: 32576376

Page 2

---

