# docid-32288053

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10198-10329

HQ

92-2781-732

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

LABADIE, STEPHEN J.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 06/20/1963

'PAGES :

18

SUBJECTS :

LST, ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

.10/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

t.

r...

v9.1

DocId: 32288053 Page 1

31

---

## Page 2

++4-8831508- 541-591

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPONTING OFFICK

ТАКРА

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

TAMPA

MILE OF CAE

SANTO TRAFFICANTS, JR., aka

DATE - 20-63

INvESTIGATIVE FIRIOD

StE 763

5/17 - 8/13/63

REPORT MADE BY

SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED I

dab

PERRICE:

'Roport of SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE, 5/17/63, at Tampa;

Bulet to Tampa, 5/21/63;

Houston letter

to Tamps,

5/31/63 (Interoffice);

New York letter to Tamps, 6/3/63 (Interoffico);

Cincinnati lotter to Tamps, 6/3/63 (Interoffico).

-р-

XACTOBURE:

TO BUREAU:

Original and copy of lottarhead menoraidun charactorizing

informants.

LEAD&:

T.

АТАКОНКО

COPIES MADE:

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

- Bureau (92-2781) (5-55,1

40492-2781-732

- Houston (162-233)

He ded

3 - Hiam (92-88)

(1 - USA,

Miant - Att:

193 JUN 24 1953

HT.

WILLIAN KENNEY)

2 - татра (92-1)

Dissemination Record of Attachod Roport

Notations

NIKE

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fud.

How Fwd.

6J01

REG- 21

DocId: 32288053 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

Miami has advised in çase entitled "LA CAUSA NOSTRA; AR -

CONSPIRACY" that agents of the Miami Office on 6/9/63 who observed

the subject meeting with ANGELO BRUNO were SAS FRANK FOREE, Jr•,

DON W. WALTERS, PAUL A, SCRANTON, and DULANY J. DUPUY. SAS HALTERS

and FOREE were

inside

Junior's Restaurant at the time of the

mooting and identified THOMAS' ALTANARA as one of the persons at

the meeting from a review of photos and files in the Miami Office.

(The above meeting was previously set out in report of SA STEPHEN

J. LABADIE dated 5/17/63) •

SA WILLIAM F. AUSCH and SA ELMER MULLEN observed the meeting

Of TRAFFICANTE and BRUNO at Junior's Restaurant on 5/15/63.

The Bureau has advised relative' to MARTIN JONES, an

• eX-FBI

Agent being reportedly associated with MARK HAWES, Attorney at

St. Petersburg, Floria, that MARTIN JAMES JONES entered on duty as

a Special Agent 10/11/51 and his resignation (with prejudice) was

accepted 10/18/62 and therefore it was not desirable at this time

to obtain his cooperation

as an SOI concerning

MARK HAWES.

The New York Office has advised by referenced letter that in

view of the sensitive nature of the investigation of JOSEPH T.

ARCURI, members of the ARCURI family were not being interviewed

at this

tine.

+.

The Cincinnati Offico has advised by referenced letter that

a gearch of the indices and files of the Cincinnati Office failed

to establish any identifiable information concerning a "SAUER"

or & "RONNY 'PAGEANT"

INFORMANTS:

TP T-1 is TP. 97-C

TP T-2 is GUY GULLY (upon request)

TP

T= 3

is HERBERT WALL, Miami Attorney (on request)

TP

T-4

IS JAMES W. DONOFRIO, PCI

TP

T-5

is GEORGE ALLEN, SAC contact at Fort Myers, Fla:

TP T-6 iS WILLIE MAE JACKSON, PCI (maid at subject's

residente)

TP T-7 1S PEDRO AYALA, Chief of Police, Tampa

International Airport

TP T.8 is TP 41-C

IP T 9. 1S !

IP 50-0

TP T-10: is CI 342-C

TP T-11 is TP. 108-PC

C*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32288053 Page 3

---

