JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 5/7/2015

Agency Information

feleased under the John
. Kennedy

AGENCY: FBI dae
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10195-10024 ce cee cabernet
ollection Act of 1992
RECORD SERIES: HQ (44 USC 2107 Note).
# ‘ase#:NW 45792 Date:
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-3171-1365 Ra 05-2015
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI
_TO:
TITLE:
“DATE: 03/27/1964
‘PAGES: 62
SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

SGi, ALIAS, CORRELATION SUMMARY

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4; 10(a)2; 11 (a)

Redact

12/30/1998

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS.

vol

7”

HW 45792 DocId:32286248 Page 1


ae a . :
G SY

(continued)

winnings. Individuals who failed to obey the dictates of the under- |
world leaders have been beaten and in some instances, although never
factually substantiated, killed. It was reported in 1961 that the H
death of Jack Henningan was ordered by Giancana because he had becca
furnished information to the Cook County States Attorney's Office which |
resulted in raids on gambling establishments. U fis

162-786-3 px 29,32,34,36-41, 56-59,
(32 Roya Ron bs, ba be. 67 BO 78
- 71, 84, 85, 87,113,139,
143, 168, 181, 198, 201,
202,212,216, 222-224)
226; 227; 230

MM-730-PC advised on 1/25/61 that Sam Giancana met John
Formusa ee in the lobby of the Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami

Beach, Fla.
92-3232-27 p. 8
(23

i
\
On 2/15/61 Captain Hansel H. Tower, US Naval Air Station, |
Pensacola, Fla., furnished a copy of a letter received by Admiral !
Robert Goldthwaite, Commanding Officer of the Pensacola Station which i
was signed "Cook USA." According to a pencil notation on the margin,

ONI furnished on 2/20/61 a Photostat of a second letter received by :
Admiral Goldthwaite and signed "Cook USA." \}

This Unknown Subect, Cook, U.S. Army (100-434808), wrote
concerning a plague the CP was planning to spread, called Operation
SAW and said Admiral Goldthwaite was one of thexofficers chosen to i
spread the plague. He stated they had an electronics truck which
would project chemicals plus plague infested insects and flees that
would cause a terrible lot of deaths in the armed forces and among
civilians also. The writer of these letters stated that approval of
men to man these operations went all the way back to Chicago to Sam
Giancana and others. He said the Party paid heavily to Giancana and
the others but that the great Giancana would personally supervise the i
right Muggs to carry out the operation. Some people in Los Angeles, |
including children, were to be the first victims and Giancana was to
handle this operation in Los Angeles. U

(continued on next page) i

-15-

HW 45792 DocId:32286248 Page 2


‘e A

" (continued)

Above informant advised on 12/19/61 that Giancana, whom
he described as the unquestioned leader of organized crime in the
Chicago area, held a conference with Lederer, gambler from Las Vegas. :
They discussed local politics, including the potential candidates for pots
the office of Sheriff of Cook County. Giancana was highly displeased i
because he believed that the candidates for sheriff could not be
bought and would not play ball with the organization.

92-4999-13 p. 1,3,4
(every Pt 13

William Harrigan, 758 St. Michael Street, Mobile, Ala.,
advised (date not given) that he was unable to furnish any information
regarding Ben Jaffe's (92-4895) association with Sam Giancana or
other Chicago hoodlums. :

CG-6491-C furnished information on 11/28/61 and 1/10/62
when he stated that Jaffe owned the majority of stock in the Guarantee a
Reserve Life Insurance Company of Hammond, Ind. It was noted that L
this company once showed a loan in the form of a mortage granted for -
the construction of the River Road Motel, known later as the Thunderbolt |
| Motel, in a Chicago suburb, allegedly owned by Giancana. This loan
| was believed ‘i be a mere paper loan in order to conceal untaxed money

of Giancana.
92-4895-13 p. 16,19
Ce

Bureau memo dated 2/13/62 concerning "Jamaica Gambling
Activities," 162-868, set out the following: As the result of
information developed by highly confidential sources in Las Vegas it
was determined that Nevada gambling personality, John Frank Drew,
had traveled to Jamaica. The sources indicated that Drew, who owned
5% of the hoodlum controlled Stardust Hotel in Las Vegas and was
reportedly a front man in Las Vegas for Samuel Giancana and the Chicago
underworld organization, was traveling to Jamaica to develop gambling
casinos in that area, yy)

162-8687 p. 1
(39)

: ¥ -21-

NW 45792 DocId:32286248 Page 3


a fan

Aut Ne

. / The following references on Frank Eulo, 92-5647, set

out the activities and close association between Eulo and Sam "Mooney"
Giancana, a leader of the Chicago underworld. Eulo, who stated that
he had known Giancana since his boyhood days dating back to the 1920's,
was described as an errand boy for Giancana in the north section of
Cicero, I11. It was reported on 2/23/62 that Bulo operated a crap and
card game in Cicero for Giancana and the Split of the profits was 50
percent for Giancana and 50 percent for Eulo and his associates.

CG-6428-C advised on 12/16/60 that as reputed to be a brother-
in-law of Giancana. PCI (protect identity) stated
that Eulo's wife, Rose Eulo, was probably related to Giancana, U
SERIAL NUMBER SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

2 p. 1,7-10 (2768) JFK Act 6 (4)
7p. 144 ay

Sam De Stefano, 1656 North Sayre, Chicago, “advised on
8/24/60 that he was a good friend of Sam Giancana, having grown up

with Giancana on Taylor St. in Chicago. He stated that he had not
been close to Giancana during the past several years but ran into

him from time to time at various wakes and other gatherings. De Stefano

said he called Giancana, "Doc." J

CG-6257-C stated (date not given) that Sammy Louis operated
one of the most vicious "Juice Rackets" (92-6442) in the City of
Chicago and had been friendly with Giancana for many years. J

CG-6443-C advised on 3/2/61 that during 1961 when Giancana
was in Chicago he frequently visited the Stop Light Lounge located at
the Southeast corner of Roosevelt Road and Cicero Ave. v

On 6/29/61, CG-6443-C advised that the operators of the
Michigan Art Galleries borrowed $50,000 from Giancana through his
representative De Stefano, The loan was made on "juice" rates at
five per cent. per week which meant they had to pay back interest of
—~$2,500 per week on the $50,000 Joan. J

Above informant advised on 3/19/62 that Rocco Potenza was
then running a’ large crap game on Milwaukee Ave. near Niles, Ill. He
operated it for Giancana according to source who stated the game was
both large and lucrative. U é

.
92-6442-1 pv 13, 16,30, 52,65 :
(30/408))// i oo

~22-

b-
!

HW 45792 DocId:32286248 Page 4


c ao
a LY '

i
i
|
i:
t
i

: Sergeant Arthur Leonard, Dade County, Florida, Dept. of
Public Safety, advised (date not given) that a Cadillac automobile
reportedly used by.Sam Giancana, Chicago racket figure, was observed
at the home of Joseph John Fischetti (92-3024), Miami Beach, Fla.
Previous investigation determined that this automobile was owned by
James Eichler. N)

Eichler advised that he was in Miami in the Spring of 1962
but that the name of Giancana was not familiar to him. U

92-3024-58 p. 7,8
(207

The "New York Confidential" column by Lee Mortimer, which
appeared in the "Washington Post:‘and Times Herald of 4/14/62, stated
that Phyllis McGuire was seen constantly with Sam Gincano. Recently
he took all, three McGuire sisters nightclubbing in NYC and they were
dripping with furs and diamonds. A columnist from another paper
talked to them and either didn't know that Gincano was Tony Acardo's
successor or didn't want to talk about it. °, :

94-42546- "Washington Post and
(71488) Times Herald" 4/14/62 i

NK-2251-C* reported on 4/16/62 that Ray De Carlo, Anthony
Russo and Joe Polverino met at The Barn (address not given) that
afternoon and during a conversation Ray stated that he had heard
Mooney was going to live at Palm Beach, Fla. Ray also told Russo, who
had been refused permission to go to Palm Beach, that he should have
gone to Mooney and asked him, "I might be able to get something in
Palm Beach - would it be all right with you?" U

It was noted that Mooney referred to above was Samuel
Giancana, J

92-3096-455 p. 4-6
Grn

On 5/15/62, NY-3368-C-TE (137-7461) furnished a list of
members of The°Criminal Commission in several large cities. He named
Samuel M. Giancana as a member in Chicago. J

1

|

137-74§1-12 p. 7

cea

: -23-

NW 45792 DocId:32286248 Page 5


C ‘o

Norman Glubeck, Reporter for the "Chicago American" (protect I:
identity) advised on 5/20/62 that he had interviewed Manny Skar pertaining |
to the operation of the Sahara Motel North (92-6140) at Chicago and Skar |
stated that he was the sole owner and operator of that establishment. f
oean denied that he had ever met Samuel M. Giancana or knew anyone by :

at name. H

CG-6241-C reported that he had learned-on 5/21/62 that i
Giancana and Gus Alex were heavily invested in the Sahara Inn North
mentioned above. ,)

CG-6443-C advised in May, 1962 that the Sahara Inn North was
an investment of Giancana, William Daddano and Sam Pattaglia*. J

Glubeck, CG-6241-C and CG-6443-C have stated that Pattaglia
and Daddano were lieutenants in the Giancana hoodlum organization, who
maintained a degree of influence in the western and southwestern
suburbs of Chicago.

CG-6241 also advised on 5/21/62 that Rocco Potenzo was a

Giancana lieutenant at Chicago. ]
92-6140-1-p. 1,3,34,35, 63
Gays E

Sometimes spelled Battaglia.

LA-4410-PC advised that in the Spring of 1960 there was
an organization of hoodlums who met at Chicago, headed by Sam Giancana,
whom source called the "outfit." It included Louie Tom Dragna of Covina,
Calif., (fnu) Farrell (phonetic) of Detroit, Phil Alderisio, Al
Frabotta, Irwin Weiner (phonetic), a Chicago bondsman, and a contact
man named Irving Dworett. |)

Above informant advised that Dworett was in Los Angeles as
of 6/11/62 and he believed he was there for the purpose of opening up
a cigarette vending machine business in Los Angeles County for the
"outfit." This would be accomplished by a strong:attempt to infiltrate i
Pyramid Sales, Inc. and Coast Automatic Vending Corporation. Source
said he had recently learned that Cole Finder had his business taken
away by the "outfit" earlier this year at Chicago, and he heard that the
"outfit" took control of the cigarette vending business in Pittsburgh,

Pa.

92-5925+18 p. 1,24
(ai

-24- H

HW 45792 DocId:32286248 Page 6


C e)

On 6/6/62, MM-814-PC stated that when Sam Giancana was in
the Miami Beach area, he was frequently at the Fontainebleau Hotel.
He pointed out that Giancana appeared to possess "weight" among the
"boys," and was known around the hotel as an admirer of Phyllis
McGuire, Source had the impression that the "boys" considered it
somewhat of an honor to speak to Giancana.

MM-730-C advised that on 6/30/62 Giancana was at the above
hotel with Max Eder (92-4192) and Ben Novack, where they spent
considerable time in Novack's office. Source stated that they left
the hotel about 4:15 p.m. and he understood they went to the airport. y)

MM-822-C advised on 7/2/62 he was told that Eder sometimes
used the rooms at the Fontainebleau Hotel: that were apparently out
of order or were being painted, absolutely free and he made certain
that others received rooms under the same conditions including Giancana «|

: 92-4192-24 p. 1,14,18,26
(25)0> uo

CG-6343-C* has advised (date not given) that John D'Arco 7
and his secretary Pat Marcy were both under the influence of Chicago ‘
hoodlums including Sam Giancana. U

{ :

CG-6443-C advised on 7/6/62 that D'Arco was First Ward |

Alderman in Chicago. v) i

60-5739-112 p. 2
By

Clark County Sheriff, Ralph Lamb, Las Vegas, furnished
information regarding a conversation he had with Sidney Korshak, a
Chicago attorney, at the Riviera Hotel in Las Vegas on 7/22/62.
According to Lamb, Lt. Robert Griffin of the Intelligence Unit of
his office wrote a letter to William J. Duffy, Director of the ’
Intelligence Division of the Chicago PD, and made reference to Chicago f
hoodlum Samuel M. Giancana and the fact that the Sheriff's Office '
expected Giancana in the Las Vegas area in the near future. The letter
requested information available regarding Giancana and photographs of \
known associates of Giancana in Chicago. A short reply was received
from Duffy which made no reference to Giancana. According to Korshak,
within 15 minutes after Duffy received the letter, Giancana had a
Photostat of it, and Giancana subsequently showed the Photostat to
Korshak. Korshak told Lamb that he could not trust anyone in the
- Chicago PD. J i .

1
62-103117-112.-p. 1
(43)

HW 45792 DocId:32286248 Page 7


PCI Jake Skal1 (protect identity) advised on 8/3/62 that
a Chicao hoodlum named Manny Skar operated the Sahara Inn at Chicago
which was believed to have been owned by Chicago hoodlums. Skar was
known to have been in association with several Chicago hoodiums nee
including Sam Giancana. dv i

92-590A+9 p. 4 |
(29) |

LA-4410-PC advised that he was approached in about July,
1960 by Irving Dworett who advised him that certain people could
expand his business of vending machines at Chicago for a ten percent
cut of the ownership. Shortly after this there was a meeting held in
the vending machine office with about thirty hoodlums present, which
included Sam Giancana, Louis Tom Dragna of Los Angeles, and Felix
Alderisio (92-3141). Source stated that while he was there, the
hoodlums voted as to whether he would be allowed to operate his vending
machine business and they all voted to "take him." After the vote
source said Alderisio punched him around and.that he received several
subsequent beatings from this group. Above informant said he also
attended a meeting (date not givend held at Giancana's residence in
Melrose Park, 111. when about sixteen Italians and Sicilians were
present including Giancana. Informant was beat up at this meeting.
Dragna mentioned that Mickey Cohen was involved with Coast Vending and
Giancana said that Dragna should walk right over Cohen. U

LA-4410-PC also advised that in 1962 Morris Litberg was
offered a proposition whereby for ten per cent of his company his
vending machine business could be greatly expanded. Shortly after this
he attended a meeting in his vending machine office (address not given)
attended by several Chicago hoodliums including Giancana, Alderisio
and Lou Farrell from Omaha. At the conclusion of this meeting, Litberg
was punched around by Alderisio. Y

Above source believed in July, 1960 and also in July, 1962
that Dragna had some interest in the operations of Giancana at Chicago.
He was also of the opinion that Alderisio wanted very much to be the
big boss and take over from Giancana. U

CG-6241-C advised that on 8/8/62, a party was held in honor |
of Keeley Smith in her room at the Sahara Inn Motel, Chicago.

Participating in this party were Giancana, several other hoodlums, and
numerous prostitutes. Uv

92-3141-44 p. D,F,G,5,6
Ce

~26-

HW 45792 DocId:32286248 Page 8


é O

CG-6241-C advised that Keely Smith, night club singer,
was the feature attraction at the Gigi Room of the Sahara Inn North
(92-6140), Chicago, during the two week period ending 8/8/62. About
2:00 p.m. every day John Matassa picked up Smith in a-car and drove
her to an unknown destination. Source stated that Matassa was known
as Samuel Giancana's chauffeur and body guard and it was known to
informant that, Smith was a one time paramour of Giancana. U

Add. info.

|
I
'
|
|

92-6140-4 p. B,1,12
(3a

Norman Glubock, Reporter for the "Chicago American" news-
) er (protect identity) furnished information on 5/7/62, 6/6/62 and
13762 which disclosed that Paul Perkins, who operated the O'Hare
Taxi Corporation at Mannheim and Higgins Roads at O'Hare Airport,
Chicago, had recently organized a new cab company called the White
Top Cab Co., Inc, (92-6133). According to source, Perkins was
observed conferring near his office with Romeo Torsiello and Sam
Giancana. Torsiello was the night manager of the Thunder Bolt Motel ie
located at 5400 River Road, Chicago, which was operated by Charles {
Giancana, brother of Sam, Informant said that the bank rolling for {
the White Top enterprise came from Sam Giancana. U

Don L. Stevens, Village President, Rosemont, I11., stated :
(date not given) that Torsiello was the owner of the White Top Cab
Co, and brother-in-law of Charles Giancana. He also stated that
Jeep Daddano, related to Willy "Potatoes" Daddano, a top ranking
Chicago hoodlum, was supervisor of the taxicab drivers. v

Tony Scherer, proprietor of the O'Hare Taxi Co. (protect
identity), advised on 8 13/62 that he learned from several other
individuals subsequent to Perkins' meeting with Giancana above that
Perkins bragged that he was the supervisor for the White Top Cab Co. Vi

92-6133~2 p. 1-3,8
45)"

CG-6509-C advised on 8/23/62 that Frank "Sharkey" Eulo had
returned his gambling operations from the area of 49th Ave. and
Roosevelt Road to the Dixie Lounge, 1410 South Cicero Ave.,, Cicero, ty \

(continued on next page)

-27-

HW 45792 DocId:32286248 Page 9


G Q

i

(continued)

On 9/28/62, LV-69-Cx, advised that Eddie Fisher had been
obtained for the entertainment to open the above club’ and several
well-known entertainers were to follow him. Giancana sent a message
of thanks to Morris Barney Dalitz, one of the stockholders at Las
Vegas, for obtaining Fisher for the opening of the club. J

cG 6538-C-TE advised on 11/1/62 that the men‘:behind the
Villa Venice, at Chicago were Giancana and Marshall Caifano. Uv

Add. info. :
92-6402-1 p. 1,7-10,12
(30) fee

CG-6613 furnished information in November and December,
1962 concerning "Strip Shows" (92-6470) in Chicago. Source said the
Aloha Club at 2443 West Madison was owned, by Johnnie Marola who had
a connection with Sam "Mooney" Giancana. v

CG-6443-C furnished information from February, 1961 to
December, 1962 and stated that Butch Loverdi ran the Club 19 which
was a notorious "strip joint" in the Rush Street area of Chicago for
hoodium interest. Butch was known to be a front man for "Milwaukee"
Phil Alderisio and Giancana. J

CG-6538-C-TE furnished information from September through
December, 1962 and said the Talk of the Town on North Clark St.,
Chicago, was operated by Hunk Galiano and that Galiano and Loverdi
were directly connected with Giancana. U

92-6470-1,-p. 19, 30,33
(30¥59). JFK Act 6 (4)

perl ___](protect identity) advised on 12/27/62 that
entertainers Eddie Fisher, Sammy Davis, Jr., Frank Sinatra and Dean
Martin had recently appeared at the "New Villa Venice" (92-6402)
at Chicago. They drew large crowds at the Villa Venice which cut
down considerably on the attendance at the Sahara Inn, owned by
Manny Skar. Source said Skar made no mention of this to the owners
and operators of the Villa Venice because of the reported connections
of Sam Giancana with the Villa Venice.\)

(continued on next page) 4

-30-

HW 45792 DocId:32286248 Page 10



e O _

(continued)

On 1/16/63, Sinatra was at the offices of Essex Productions, j
9229 Sunset Boulevard, Chicago, and advised that he had no knowledge {
of Giancana having any interest in the Villa Venice, and that Giancana i
had nothing to do with his appearance at this club nor the appearance H
of the other above-named talent. . Concerning the association of i
Sinatra with persons such as Giancana, Sinatra stated that in his
business he met all kinds of people. J :

On 1/18/63, CG-6443-C advised that Richard Bernas, who was
to be the assistant general manager of the Villa Venice at Chicago,
had eee on one occasion that Giancana was the owner of this
club.

Add. info.

(31)

Bee p. 2-4,6,12,13

CG-6343-Cx advised in October, 1960 that James Stavros ran LC
as Democratic committeeman of Wheeling Township, Chicago, and after r
election, Stavros started "shaking down" the bar owners and everyone
else in Wheeling Township. He said that Sam Gianciana and others

* decided that John F. Scanlan would talk to Stavros to straighten him
out.

CG-6576-Cx furnished information concerning activities
occuring within the offices of the First Ward Democratic organization
in Chicago. Pat Marcy met with Anthony Tisci, at which time Marcy
gave a lengthy account of his meeting held on 1/31/63 with Giancana.
The conversation between Marcy and Tisci was set out. uU

92-5045-23 p. 1,J3,3
(26)

NY-3843-C advised that on 2/10/63 she went to Jilly's
Restaurant, NYC, during the early morning hours and met Sam Giancana
whom she had met previously at the 500 Club in Atlantic City, NJ.

Informant stated that in the group with Giancana were Mickey Rabin,
an attorney, Jilly and his wife, owners of the restaurant, and aurea i

Add, info.
92-5044-18 p. 2
(26)

-31- j

HW 45792 DocId:32286248 Page 11


Tarquin. Simonelli (92-6816) was known to be in the
occasional company of Sam Giancana and had been used by Giancana on
oo. an emmissary to other lesser hoodiums in the Chicago
area, ’

CG-6512-C-TE advised that he heard Giancana had ordered all
burglars or armed robbers to move out of Cicero, I11., when a lot of
stolen merchandise had been recovered by States Attorney's Police in
Cicero. This merchandise was stolen by Guy Mendolia and Giancana was
so angered by the "resulting heat" that only the fact that Mendolia was
his godson prevented Giancana from having Mendolia killed, but he
indicated that, any further transgressions would bring immediate
retaliation. ./

t

Carla Delano (protect identity), former waitress at Maggio's
Steak House, 7635 Roosevelt Road, Forest Park, I11., statéd that on
occasion Giancana visited the above steak house, the last time being
about March,.1963, She said the hoodlum element, including Simonelli,
who frequented this location engaged regularly in card playing. I]

On 6/18/63, Dun and Bradstreet (protect identity) advised mi
that Simonelli paid visits to the Armory Lounge, 7424 Roosevelt Road, — is
Forest Park, which was a known meeting place of Giancana. Vi

92-6816-1 p. 1,8,9,11,12
Basee p. 1,8, ,

CG-6656-PC-TE furnished information on July 1 and 3, 1963
concerning "Interstate Transportation of Stolen Funds from Nevada
Gambling Casinos" (92-6177). Informant advised that Sam Giancana did
not trust any of his subordinates in the affairs of organized crime.
He'-had considerable financial interests in Las Vegas gambling casinos
and due to.his distrust of his subordinates, Giancana made frequent
trips to Las Vegas where he personally collected the proceeds from the
money which was skimmed off the top of these gambling casinos and
carried it back to Chicago. Source said that on some occasions the
amount of money picked up by Giancana totalled almost a half million
dollars. His practice was to fly to Los Angeles and then drive a
rented car to Las Vegas. j

Above source stated that he had learned that Marshall Caifano
could do no wrong in the eyes of Giancana and was one of three "hit
men" considered by Giancana to be the best in the business. |

(continued on next page)

ga

eke

HW 45792 DocId:32286248 Page 12


(continued) ee

SYNOPSIS , REFERENCE AND SEARCH SLIP |
PAGE NUMBER

June, 1955 members of the Chicago Crime
syndicate were considering a replacement pes
for Louis Campagna, who died on 5/30/55. foe
He had held a high position in the crime :
syndicate. On 694/55, Giancana and
other active hoodlums from Chicago and
NYC, left Chicago for Midmi to elect the
successor to Campagna. y

An article in the "Chicago Tribune" 62-7514759-A "Chicago
of 7/9/55, page 7, column 2, entitled (15) BAY Tribune"
"Gang Leaders Attend Wake of Tough Tony," 7/9/55
revealed that Sam (Mooney) Giancana

attended the wake for Anthony (Tough

Tony) Capezio, a top lieutenant in the

crime syndicate, which was held in the

mortuary at 5842 Cermak Road, Cicero, _
111. U I

PCI Dominick A. Scalzitti advised 62-75147-9-145 p. 66,87
on 7/29/55 that Sam "Mooney" Giancanna (61Y77)/

was a close friend of Chicago Alderman

John D'Arco and Giancanna was supposed

to have put up about $10,000 years ago

through D'Arco to secure the promotion

of Louis Caparelli in the Chicago PD.

PCI stated that Caparelli was a close

contact of Giancanna, who was a brother- i
in-law of Anthony De Tolve, Illinois ‘

State Representative who was also close

to D'Arco. Additional information in

serial sub A "Chicago Daily News"

10/3/55, below. U

An article entitled "Mobsters called in 62-75147-9-A "Chicago Daily
Bomb Quiz" appeared in the "Chicago Daily (15¥%54)¥~ News" 10/3/55
News" of 10/3755, page 17, column 1, and

disclosed that Sam "Mooney" Giancana,

syndicate gambling boss, had been :
subpoenaed by the special county grand if
jury investigating the wave of unsolved

bombings in the Chicago area.

(continued on next page)

-47-

HW 45792 DocId:32286248 Page 13


The following references in the file captioned "Reactivation
of the Capone Gang" set out information on the activities of Samuel
M. Giancana. Set out below is a synopsis of information contained in
each: reference: U

SYNOPSIS REFERENCE AND SEARCH SLIP
PAGE NUMBER

During the week of 6/21/46 extensive 62-81093-9-49 p. 3

investigation was conducted in Chicago (65)%

to compile and assemble all information:
relative to the key members of the Capone
Syndicate including Sam Gianciano. UV

NY letter dated 6/23/46 disclosed that 62-81093-34-2 p. 3
NYC-91 understood Sam Gianciano was (66)

related to Ferdinand De Luccia who had

been connected with the movie racketeering

gang. De Luccia and Al Capone had been

interested in the Sportsman's Park Race

Track in Illinois. An individual named

Boccia was apparently a member of the

Capone gang in Chicago and had succeeded

De Luccia as one of the more important

racketeers in Chicago. ,)

James M, Ragen, Sr. was shot on 6/24/46 62-81093-9-224 p. 5
by a would-be assassin, driving a small (16)
truck, at 39th and State Sts., Chicago.

Ragen's car had been previously passed

by a small truck and he was able to get

a good view of the driver and believed

this was the same one who shot him.

Ragen was shown a picture of Sam

Giancana and indicated he was not the

man in the truck. He said he might

have seen Giancana some place but he

could not recall where U

On 6/28/46, the Chicago Office 62-81093-9-84 p. 1
requested the criminal report on Sam (16) |

Giancana, FBI No. 58437.

A pencil

notation disclosed that the request
was answered on 7/10/46.

(continued on next page)

-49-

i
1

HW 45792 DocId:32286248 Page 14
