# docid-32296094

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10216-10370

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

105-114543-266

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

OCONNOR, JAMES J.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 03/07/1966

PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS :

JURE, OSORIO, DAVILA, MR, ASSOC, ACA, POLIT STUDIES,

FINANCES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32296094

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Fin. *

CONEXIENTIAL

• MM 105-6661

COPIES (Continued)

1 - INS, Miami (RM)

1 - CIA, Miami (RM)

I G-2, Ft. McPherson, Ga. (RM)

- State Department, Cuban Affairs, Miami (RM)

1 - U.S. Coast Guard, Miami (RM)

1 - U.S. Customs, Miami (RM)

1 - U.S. Customs, Region II, Miami (RM)

1 - U.S. Customs, Key West, (RM)

1 - U.S. Border Patrol, Miami (RM)

1 - Oni, Miami (RM)

1 - OSI, Miami (RM)

1 - USAFAD, Ojus (RM)

ADMINISTRATIVE (Continued)

situation, at present in his efforts with the "Cuban

Center of Political Studies!'' That activity is being

covered in pending Miami case 105-10748, Bufile

105-148341, in the caption PARTIDO DE LA REVOLUCION

(Party of the Revolution): IS - CUBA. U

Any significant information relating to JURE

which may develop will be furnished promptly to the

Bureau and interested offices. U

MANUEL VARELA, whose interview is set out in

this report, advised that ROGELIO CISNEROS, former

JURE member, who, as mentioned in the report, had con-

tact with MANUEL RAY in Puerto Rico and in Costa Rica,

Is probably working for CIA, Miami. He pointed out

that CISNEROS is associated with the engineering firm

Of HOWARD POST at 225 Westward Drive, Miami Springs.

He said CISNEROS has in recent months traveled to the

Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico and Costa Rica, Sup-

posedly on engineering matters, although he does not

have an engineering background. U

- B

COVER PAGE

COMFINEATIAL

DocId: 32296094 Page 2

---

## Page 3

wr.i

COMFORTIL

MM 105-6661.

CONCIERINT

On February 16, 1966, ELMER BECKER, Assistant

Vice President, Hialeah-Miami Springs Bank, Hialeah,

Florida, advised that the JURE checking account #107-

188, was closed out on October 7, 1965 at which time

it contained a balance of $76.68.U

Copy of this report is furnished Washington

Field because of the activity there on the part of JURE

member PEDRO ENTENZA. U

INFORMANTS

Identity

MM T-1 is LUIS POSADA, 220 N.W.

55th Court, Miami (by

request)

MM T-2 is

JUAN MACHADO (former

817-S)

MM T-3 1S M1 847-37 0(4)

IT- iS 1974-57041

MM I-S is MANUEL VARELA,

2955 W.

10th Court, Hialeah (by

request) u

Location

105-6661-698

(u)

105-6661-701

134-736-Sub A-315 8(41

134-962-Sub A-134

This report

COME NETH,

CONE ENTIAL

TP.1

DocId: 32296094

Page 3

---

