# docid-32340338

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/6/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90157-10140:

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 105-205074-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM: [Restricted]

TO :

TITLE:

DATE:

05/18/1970

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LOUIS KUTNER

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS:

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DIA

COMMENTS: RPT, REFERRED TO DIA

v9.1

DocId: 32340338

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

DEFENSE

ELLIGENCE AGENCY • AGENT REPE

mcf

SURJFCTISI

LIN, Eric C. H., CIV.

aka:

LIN, Eric

6606 Windsor Ave., Apt. 01

Berwyn, Ill.

18 May 1970

FIF. NIIMAERISI

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN 15 UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 53/45 BY Bx2008-5V)a

J-70 (III-43)

REPORI OF FINDINGS.

3125 FURMAN LAN, ANTIO

(INGIDENT REPORT) On 18 May 1970, Richard Hennighausen,

1, E5=9, Intertigence 22,306

Research Specialist, DIAAP-6Bl; voluntarily appeared at DIACI-3D, Room 2B535,

the Pentagon, and reported the

following information to this Agent in the

On 18 May 1970 he received a letter from Eric C. H. LIN, aka: Eric LIN,

Apt. 01, Berwyn, Ill. 60402, postmarked 13 May 1970,

PM, place illegible, Ill.

Source was shocked to read the contents, as SUBJECT had never indicated that He

was of a viü ent nature or that HE had such radical thoughts as are-expressed

in the letter (EXHIBIT I). LIN made reference to the attempted assassination

of General Chiang Ching-Kup, the son of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-Shek, which

took place at New York City, N.Y., on 21 April 1970. LIN wrote that, although

the attempt was unsuccessful, it had boosted the morale to the highest peak

that anything could happen from now on.

He further wrote of the attempt of

Formosans to raise bond money for the individuals who were involved in the

assassination attempt. Source advised that he had outlined in red ink two

comments on pages 5 and 6 in which LIN suggested that Source might assist the

Formosan group and that they might discuss the secret plans of the Formosan group

if and when Source were to visit Chicago.

SUBJECT stated in part.

"He missed the pig! Can there be anything more regrettable than this? That

day after the demostration in front of the white house, we sneaked into Andrew

Air Force Base at about 4:30 PM and waited until 7:00 PM when the pig-carrier

landed.

_They pushed him (the pig) into bullet-proofed car and drove off quickly.

Anyway we gave him quite a heckle.

"I didn't call you because I took ride with Cheng and Huang--the heros to

Baltimore directly.

I was so excited that I mentioned if I had a grenade,

everything would have been settled now!"

Source also made available five pages of Xerox copies of news items, and

two news releases from the World United Formosans for Independence, P.O.

Box 574,

GCS, New York, N.Y., dated 20 and 27 April 1970.

The news release dated 27 April

1970 contained the name of Luisy Kutner, Counsel, 105 West Adams St 2. Chicago,

ILl: 60603: Irong R. chai, Ph.D., was listed as President (EXHIBITS II and III). K

Thes items were attached to LIN's letter.

Source advised that he had not spoken with Lin since their meeting in

Washington, D.C. on 19 April 1970. In retrospect; LIN named no individuals in

HIS conversation with Source on 19 April 1970. Source picked LIN up at approri-

mately 1630 hours that date at a 7 or 8 story apartment building located near

the shopping center in Shirlington, Va. Lin was waiting outside the building

with two unknown friends who were apparently Formosan. Source returned LIN to

that same apartment building

at approxi ately 2200 hours that evening after they

332009

Page 1 of 2 pages

IMAMFORT

ROBERT SHWEDICK, Special Agent, DIA

DIA EnON IAR.

MAY 196A

SIGMATIRE

Alon

ENCLOSURE

105°

2 p

5074. D

d'Ar OPI DIACI

DocId: 32340338 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DEFENSE

ELLIGENCE AGENCY - AGENT REPOS

mcf

SUAIFCTISI

LIN, Eric C. H., Civ.

aka: LIN, Eric

6606 Windsor Ave.,. Apt. 01

Berwyn, Ill.

18 May 1970

FIF. NIMAERTSY

AIL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

J-70 (III-43)

PERSIS IS UNCLASSIEIED

REPORI DE FINDINGS.

DATE 5-31-95 BY 5668 SOme

SFR

(INCIDENT REPORT) On 18 May 1970, Richard Hennighausen, GS-9, Intelligence

Research Specialist, DIAAP-6Bl, voluntarily appeared at DIACI-3D, Room 2B535,

the Pentagon, and reported the

following information to this Agent in the

presence of Special Agent Steven J. Brown. Source stated in substance as follows.

On 18 May 1970 he received a letter from Eric C. H. LIN, aka:

Eric LIN,

Apt. 01, Berwyn, Ill. 60402, postmarked 13 May 1970, PM, place illegible, Ill.

Source was shocked to read the contents, as SUBJECT had never indicated that HE

was of a violent nature or that HE had such radical thoughts as are expressed

in the letter (EXHIBIT I). LIN made reference to the attempted assassination

of General Chiang Ching-Kup, the son of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-Shek, which

took place at New York City, N.Y., on 21 April 1970. LIN wrote that, although

the attempt was unsuccessful, it had boosted the morale to the highest peak and

that anything could happen from now on.

HE further wrote of the attempt of

Formosans to raise bond money for the individuals who were involved in the

assassination attempt. Source advised that he had outlined in red ink two

comments, on pages 5 and 6 in which LIN suggested that Söurce

might assist, the

Formosan group and that they might discuss the secret plans of the Formosan group

if and when Source were to visit Chicago. SUBJECT stated in part . ..

"He missed the pig! Can there be anything more regrettable than this? That

day after the demostration in front of the white house, we sneaked into Andrew

Air Force. Base at about 4:30 PM and waited until 7:00 PM when the pig-carrier

landed. They pushed him (the pig) into bullet-proofed car and drove off quickly.

Anyway we gave him quite a heckle.

"I didn't call you because I took ride with Cheng and Huang--the heros to

Baltimore directly.

I was so excited that I mentioned if I had a grenade,

everything would have been settled

now!"

Source also made available five pages of Xerox copies of news items, and

two

news releases from the World United Formosans for Independence, P.0.

Box 574,

GCS, New York, N.Y., dated 20 and 27 April: 1970. The news release dated 27 April

1970 contained the name of Luis Kutner, Counsel, 105 West Adams St., Chicago,

I11. 60603.

Trong R. Chai, Ph.D.;

was listed as President (EXHIBITS II and III).

These items were attached to LIN's letter.

Source advised that he had not spoken with Lin since their meeting in

Washington, D.C. on 19 April 1970. In retrospect, LIN named no

individuals in

HIS conversation with Source on 19 April 1970. Source picked LIN up at approxi-

mately 1630 hours that date at a 7 or 8 story apartment building located near

the shopping center in Shirlington, Va.

Lin was waiting outside the building

with two unknown friends who were apparently Formosan.

Source returned LIN to

that same apartment building.

at approxi ately 2200 hours that evening after they

R

(C0203505

Page 1 of 2 pages

AFDIJAY

•TENANTURE

ROBERT SHWEDICK, Special Agent, DIA

DIA SOON lAA MAY"IONA

14901

DocId: 32340338 Page 3

---

