- FD-36 (Rev, 2-14-74) , . . KO '
~ 7 ( ) I

a : !
FSI '

1

Date: UW 2/76 1
1

1

i

1

:

1

t

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via AIRTEL.
(Precedence)
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI .
FROM: SAC, MIAMI (163-1539) (P)
SUBJECT: MURDER OF searerce GoLD Oe
FPC Leo,
BUDED: 6/25/76 - 7 ~~
(00: BUREAU) Ware
i) Re Bureau letter to Miami dated 5/25/76. far

Enclosed for the Bureau are an original and five copies|
of an LHM suitable for dissemination.

: Investigation at Miami was conducted by SA THOMAS B.
t DOWD.

At the outset of investigation, a confidential inquiry
regarding VINCENT DE MARCO and MICHAEL MILLER, was made of PAUL
SCRANTON (retired SA, Miami Office, FBI), Director of Security,
Biscayne Kennel Club; who stated that both MILLER and DE MARCO
have been employed by the Biscayne Kennel Club for approximately
20 years and both are considered to have impeccable reputations.
Based on the recommendation of SCRANTON, inquiry was made of
DE MARCO and MILLER regarding their travel to London in August
and September, 1975.

LEAD
MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLA. - {ie -NRY SR -2)

Will conduct_regerd check at Miami PD. |... 4 -
| ol 93-1

aus
- Bureau (Encs. 6)" 220 eo JU 9 1976

< Miami ee geme ae a

TBD:me:

cs) y, ze Fea it _
© °F dejrt”

| - sh ahd

i : hye 3 ALL ZeroRnAm VCOWTAT HED

HERELy TED

GPO : 1975 0 - 500-992

Doclda:32555609 Page 1



UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to
File No. 163-1539 Miami, Florida
. July 2, 1976

RE: MURDER OF BEATRICE GOLD

On June 14, 1976, MICHAEL A, MILLER, 5055 Collins
Avenue, houseboat, Crystal House Marina, Miami Beach, Florida,
was interviewed and furnished the following information:

On August 29,.1975, on behalf of the Biscayne Kennel
Club, Owner of the Flagler Dog Track, he traveled to London,
England, with the specific intent to purchase greyhound racing
dogs on behalf of the Flagler Dog Track. During this period, he
was accompanied by a co-employee of the track, VINCENT DE HARCO,
who was considered an expert in the field of greyhound racing
dogs. He is employed at the track primarily 1n public reiations,
nowever, assumed other duties such as the purchasing of the
aforementioned greyhound racing dogs. They were accompanied by
Mrs. ESTHER DE MARCO, former wife of VINCENT DE MARCO, who is
now deceased. Prior to departing for Miami, he was furnished by
local Miami dog owmers, the name of ALBERT ROSSI, as a person
to contact in London who would te in a position to furnish the
names of various dog breeders in England and Ireland. Upon arriva’
in London, contact with Mr. ROSSI was arranged and accompanied by
DE MARCO and ROSSI, he went to several surrounding dog tracks in
London and made a total purchase of 36 dogs. In response to an
ad in a London paper, he also made contact with a dog trainer
py the name of CLARE ORTON, who accompanied him to the Brighton
Dog Track end other tracks when the aforementioned purchases
were made.

On September 2, 1975, via Irish Airways, ORTON, ROSSI,
Mr and Mrs. DE MARCO, and himself departed London and traveled
to Dublin, Ireland, with the specific purpose of buying dogs at the
Shelbourne Dog Track, Dublin, Ireland. Upon arrival in Dublin,
they registered at the Gresham Hotel, Dublin, with the exception
of ROSSI, who indicated that he would reside with friends in the
area. ‘The following day, September 3, 1975, they went to the

Vis) i933

: Gata He Gh

yt

Docld:32555609 Page 2


RE: MURDER OF BEATRICE GOLD

would be of value choosing greyhounds for purchase on behalf

of the Biscayne Kennel Club, DE MARCO at this time furnished
basically the same details regarding his trip to London and
Dublin as set forth in the interview of MICHAEL A. MILLER. He
also stated that ALBERT ROSSI wasunknown to him prior to his
trip to London and the names ERROL CLIVE HEBNER and BEATRICE
GOLD are unknown to him. The name DINO CELLINI is also unknown |
to him. .

A review of the records of the Miami Office of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) could locate no information
identifiable with the following individuals:

BEATRICE GOLD

ERROL CLIVE HEBNER
ALBERT ROSSI ;
VINCENT BE MARCO |
ESTHER DE MARCO :
MICHAEL MILLER

. A review of the - records of the Miami Office of the
FBI reveals that DINO CELLINI, whose true name is DINO VINCENT
CELLINI, date of birth November 19, 1914, at Steubenville, Chio,
is well known to the FBI as a known gambler. Latest information
regarding CELLINI's activities reflect that the Italian National
Police made inquiry regarding CELLINI and stated at that time
CELLINI was then living in Rome and had been granted Italian
citizenship. CELLINI has been the subject of extensive
investigations by the Miami Office, primarily in the Anti-
Racketeering area from June, 1965 through December, 1973. in |
fact, CELLINI was reportedly living with his family in Rome
during mid-1971. No further investigation by the Miami Office
of fhe FBI has been conducted regarding CELLINI since August,
1974.

The exact address of CELLINI as of August 18, 1971,
was furnished by the Central Bureau, Criminal Division, Italian
National Police, Rome, Italy, as Via Flaminia Vecchia, 495-497,
Rome, itlay, with his wife, son, RICKI, age 20, and a daughter
age 13.

3x

Le oo WAP BR;

—— wees. ole ete ee cermesie!

Docld:32555609 Page 3

