JFK Assassination System Date: 6/12/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10202-10214
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 92-3182-655
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: COOK, ROBERT A.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: — 10/19/1962
PAGES: 20
SUBJECTS :
GAL, FISUR, EMP, B/F INT, RES, REL, ASSOC, GAMBLING,
VICE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
“RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact i
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/03/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: = [INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

v9.1
Docld:32289938 Page 1

229


CG 92-373

dated November 27, 1957, entitled “TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM; AR."

ADMINISTRATIVE

This report has been prepared in compliance with Bureau
ingtructionsthat all information which has been received
from investigative sources CG6502-C* and CG6568-C* be para-
phrased and set out in the body of the report rather than

in the cover pages.
INFORMANTS
Informant

CG T-2
‘CG 6443-C

cGT-6
PCT FRANK LA CROIX

CG _T-29
CG 6502-c*

CG T-32
CG G502-c*

CG T-40
PCI CHARLES POSTL

CG T-41
CG 6543-C-TE

CG T-48
PCI GEORGE N, SEELT

CG T-53
CG G568-c*

CG T-54
JACK BURKE
INS-Chicago
Tw
REVIEWED BY SByJFK TASK FORG!
om *efe/73__ Dae/Ty
Xf RELEASE IN FULL
(1, RELEASE IN PART

CO TOTAL DENIAL

Docld:32289938 Page 2

Date Contacted

8/31/62 through
10/12/62

8/31/62 through
10/12/62

10/12/62
8/31/62 through
10/12/62
9/10/62

9/14/62

sei
COVER PAGE

Contacting Agent

WILLIAM A, MEINCKE and
JOSEPH G. SHEA

ROBERT A. COOK

ROBERT A. COOK
ROBERT J. TOMPKINS, JR.

JOHN W. PARISH

ROBERT A. COOK

LULU

Form \owiad i



Informant Date Contacted
CG T=-55 10/1/62

CLARENCE PERRY
INS-Chicago

CG T-56 9/3/62

CG 6538-C-TE

CG T-57 8/31/62 through
MORREY MUSICANT 10/11/62

1158 N. Clark st.
Chicago, Illinois

CG_T-58 9/10/62
CG 6512-C-TE
CG _T-59 9/13/62
EDWARD GANS

Conrad Hilton Hotel

4s

REVIEWED BY BBYJFK TASK FORCE
on Lof/u/rs _Dar/Ty

Mi RELEASE tN FULL

Cl RELEASE IN PART

O TOTAL DENIAL

- Ck -
COVER PAGE

Docld:32289938 Page 3

Contacting Agent
ROBERT A. COOK

AUGUST CC. KEMPFF

ROBERT A. COOK

DENNIS W. SHANAHAN

ROBERT A. COOK

So s> soit

sebdcoeeatecostaeoestasscoceis Scesssieesssseecssssss]


CG 92-373

ever owning any Webcor-Dormeyer stock. He said he is not
acquainted with MARIANNE RYAN and did not know she was a
former wife of ALEX. HAFFA stated that a check of the
current stockholders of Webcor Corporation disclosed that
ALEX had no stock in-the corporation in his name.

VIII. MISCELLANEOUS

CG T-29 advised that he had received information
that ALEX plans again this year to travel and vacation in
Europe, as he has for the past two years. Informant said
that ALEX may also buy a Mercedes Benz while in Germany,
and use this to travel in Europe. Informant said that
ALEX may also attempt to bring this Mercedes Benz back to
the United States with him after he completes his vacation.
CG T-32 advised that he had received information difring
the early part of October, 1962, that ALEX also complained
that he may possibly lose his auto license because of
improper registration. It is to be noted that during
the early part of..October, 1962, approximately ten Chicago
hoodlums had their auto licenses revoked because of improper
registrations, and for this reason ALEX was probably con-
cerned over the possible revocation of his license.

The West Germany Federal Criminal Police advised
that the Munich, Germany Criminal Police had attempted to
interview HELMUT MAIER, Sbaiid of SUZANNE FUEGER, in
effort to obtain from him 4 y information he may have
regarding the activities of ALEX, The Munich, Germany
Police advised that MAIER's employer was contemplating on
establishing MAIER as his export agent in New York City
toward the latter part of 1962, or the early part of 1963,
and that MAIER could possibly be contacted regarding ALEX
at that time.

During a surveillance of ALEX by agents of this
office in the early part of September, 1962, ALEX indicated
to a passing motorist that they knew each other. It was
determined from the registration of the motorist to whom
ALEX waved to that this person was MILES FLEISHMAN, FLEISHMAN

- 15 -

GAA MES

Docld:32289938 Page 4

