# docid-32309422

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10298-10209

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-348, 349, 350

Document Information

- ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: EVANS, C. A.

TO: BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE: 08/02/1961

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, TRA, SURVEY, INSTAL, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 2 TTY, NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32309422

264

Page 1

---

## Page 2

4-41 (Rev. 6-2-61)

DECODED COPY

Radio

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans e

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

URGENT

ALL INFO".-a..

MEREIN IS

CONTAINED

DATE 6•6-8c/

did FIED

1 xxxTeletype

- 3150506/CoL

8-3-61 5:02 PM JFA

DIRECTOR/AND SAC BALTIMORE, AND CHICAGO

FROM SAC NEW YORK 032030

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA, ARO REMYTEL AUGUST 2, 1961.

PCI RANDY BURKE TELEPHONICALLY CONTACTED NYO 10:30 AM INSTANT.

ADVISED THEY DEPARTED NYC 50:30 AM AND ARRIVED BOX WOOD

MOTEL, OWINGS MILLS, MARYLAND, 9:30 AM INSTANT. MCGUIRE

REGISTERED ROOM 48, SECOND FLOOR.

EN ROUTE, AT HOWARD

JOHNSONS RESTAURANT ON NEW JERSEY TURNPIKE 2 MILES SOUTH OF

LINCOLN TUNNEL AT 3:35 AM INC GUIRE CALLED FROM PUBLIC

•TELEPHONE. SHE INFORMED POI SHE FAILED TO REACH SUBJECT IN

CHICAGO.

MC GUIRE IRRITATED BECAUSE LONG DISTANCE OPERATOR

DECLINED TO GET MESSAGE TO SUBJECT ADVISING OF TEMPORARY

ADDRESS AT BOX WOODS. MC GUIRE WILL DEPART BOX WOOD IAM

AUGUST 5, 1961. RETURNING TO NYC. MC GUIRE AT OWINGS MILLS

FOR REHEARSALS. PCI DOES NOT KNOW IF SUBJECT WILL VISIT

ME GUIRE AT BOX WOOD. MC GUIRE WILL DEPART NYC AUGUST 6,

1961 PiM AND BE AT VALLEY FORGE UNTIL AUGUST 19, 1961. PCI

WILL MAKE COMPLETE ROAD SHOW SCHEDULE AVAILABLE. MC GUIRE

NOT COGNIZANT OF FBI INTEREST. POI SUGGESTED CAUTION RE

MOTEL CONTACTS SINCE SOME MOTEL EMPLOYEES CONSIDER MO GUIRE

PERSONALITY AND PROBABLY WILL ACCORD HER VIP TREATMENT.

CHICAGO KEEP BALTIMORE INFORMED OF SUBJECTS ACTIVITIES.

COPIES MAILED TO NEWARK AND PHILADELPHIA. GIANCANA CONSIDERED

ARGED AND DANGEROUS, MALTGUPIES SENT TO NEWARK AND

PHILADELPHIA. U

REC-37

92-3171-349

RECEIVED:

5: 11 PM TELETYPE

5:31 PM

CODING UNIT

MN

AUG 8 1961

Is the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably.

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

, DocId: 32309122

Page 2

---

