# docid-32148156

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: : FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10084-10088

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-24016-737

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. WMFO

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/16/1963

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: JR, BKG, ASSOC, LABOR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

05/06/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/22/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32148156

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD- 3F TRev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date: 12/16/63

SECRETRIE

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code).

Via -

AIRIEL /0F

TO:

3/5170-188 H8Bud

Doulaser

on: DADA JFK

DIRECTOR, FBI (44=24016)

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(SER)

Tines

ss Landy

FROM: SAC, WFO (44-520) (P)

JACK LEON RUBY, aka;

LEE HARVEY OSWALD - VICTIM (Deceased)

CIVIL RIGHTS

(00 :DL)

12-10K

WaS.

VADI

special

ReNew Urleans teletype 11/27/63,

with info from

E. H. WILLIANS, Regional Director, AFL-CIO, Shreveport,

Louisiana, concerning group of U.S. labor leaders who made

three-week trip to Israel in 1955. One of the group was

known to WILLIANS aS a representative the teamsters Union

1/4

by the nane of JACK AUBENSTEIN. WILLIANS stated HAROLD

GIBBONS, a National' Teamsters Union representative, was also

in the group and was very close to RUBENSTEIN. WILLIAIS

I doubted RUBENSTEIN was identical with subject but desired to

furnish info concerning this possibility to the FBI.

Requested interview of HAROLD GIBBONS was not

conducted by WFO, as stated in WFO teletype 11/28/63, since

investigation determined that no passport had been issued

to subject.

3; - Bureau

'- Dallas (44-1639) (RM)

(AM)

REC 55 44 24016. 73

- New Orleans (44-2064)

(Info) (RM)

1

- New York (Info) (RM)

2 - WFO

NF - 6PC)

1114723

5

DEC 1'7 1363

GCC/ acp

(9)

Cio.

C. C. Wick

'AIRTEL

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

EE AGENCIES

ANA

6-8

ARVIE DE

SLIP(S; 04

class.

Dent 7125à

MiL SECRET

DooId:32148156

Page 2

---

## Page 3

WFO 44-520

SECRET

D, C38

On 12/13/63, [WF

568-S#

advised that on same date

ata list drug onto to oract in 1955- CHORAT ES

secret

stated he had talked to JAKE CLEMON (Phonetic), not further

identified, about an unnamed person (context clearly indicated

reference to JACK RUBY) who may have made this trif to Israel

and attached himself to HAROLD GIBBONS. CLEMMON indicated

he had recently contacted Mr. WILLIAMS, National Director,

AFL-CIO, Louisiana, about this possibility

made the trip to Israel went by the name of NATE or NANSTEI

(Phonetic), a public rélations man from Los Angeles.

The

unidentified person commented that if there was any possibilit

STEIN was identical with "the guy" in Texas (context again

indicates reference to RUBY), BARDAKI probably would have

heard from the FBI because WILLIAMS had told the FBI about

above possibility (RUBY having taken a trip to Israel in 1955)2

The informant further related ELANflater disclosed (5]

[SJ to MORAIT he had talked to BARDAKI, who knows NATE STEIN.

BARDAKI stated STEIN is not

identical with "that man" (RUBY)

whom BARDAKI had seen on TV.

BARDAKI stated STEIN is a close

friend of JAME

HOFFA, Teamster official and leader.

BARDAKI

added, in later

explaining this matter to MORATT that STEIN LS,

was on trial about six months ago and HOFFA came to his

defense.

It was agreed that there was no basis whatsoever

For rumor that this person who

1955 1s identical with RUBY X

took the trip to Israel in

115,79

(S)(MORATT) also contacted

ALAYACK (Rhonetic) not further

identified, to assure him that there was no basis for the

above rumor.

LACK, apparently referring to FBI interview of

WILLIAMS, remarked that "the man" told the. FBI about two

weeks ago, adding "If nobody has heard from it in two weeks

it is obviously not so

- 2 -

Secret

SECRET

21-19088

DocId: 32148156

Page 3

---

## Page 4

WFO 44-520

SECRET

Above is being furnished for the info of the

Bureau and recipient offices and the hatever istance

assistance it

WILLIAMS

Secret

In the event any of above info is set out in form

suitable for dissemination, the identity of the informant

must be protected and information appropriately paraphrased.

The information should be classified "Confidentirl" since

it reflects an FBi investicative

reasonably result in the identification of arconfidential

informant of continuing value and compromise the future

effectiveness thereof

SECRET

-3-

DocId: 32148156

Page 4

---

