# docid-32340858

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10221-10251

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-72630-2ND NR 13

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO :

OFFICE OF SECURITY

TITLE :

DATE:

07/02/1959

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

PDL, TRAINING, MILITARY PERSONNEL, RESIGNATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32340858

Page 1

---

## Page 2

James

Liaison

DECLAS SHER

ON 8 30:92

SECKLY

NAVY IS INTO IS DECLASS

64-211-210 PER THEIR /ET. DTD

11-16-94

7-15-1997

CLASSIFIED BY

DECLASSIFY ON.

mAc/uA

July 2,

4959

DADR (JFK)

ALL TOFORE AMIA CONT

RLASSIFIED

ERE SHOWN,

NED

MA

FISD

TONG

SEEMACIVA

ANS

Tolson:

Belmont:

NDễ Loach

McGuire

Möhr.

From:

Subjects

of Security

Department of State

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

John Sagar Hoover, Director

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA #FORMATION

POSSIBLE PRESENCE OF RUSSIANS IN THIS DOCUMENT, 1

12 CAMP LIBERIAD, HAVANA,

IZZANAL SECURITY - CUBA

CUBA

7-29-97

SID/RSe

1959.0n captioned matter.

source with whom sufficient contact has

-

not been had to determine his reliubility on July 1,

19598 advised our representative in lavano, Cuba,

Learned that four Russians are presently training Cuban

military personnel at a form knoun as El Cortijo.

source further advised that the identities of the Bussiona

were nocknown.

With regard to the above information, our repre-

sentative has adulsed that Pedro luis Diaz Lanz, the former

head of the Guben Air force, in his letter of resignation

to President manuel Urrutla stated that communist elements

nave enerved pressurenco aoneve a determined plan of

indoctrination in chenschool chat functions at ll Cortijo

Janse

The above information has been made avallable to

Lavangs

appropriate officials in the United States Embassy at

Cuba.

Any additional pertinent information received

in this motter uill be imediately made available.

1105.22630

1 - Director of Naval Intelligenef84 JUL 7 1959

NOT RECORDED

CURLICATE

2

- Mtami (SEE NOTE PAGE 20)

AAG,

ISD,

105-New (Pedro Luts

By 0-o0, same date,

6 0 00L

1959

0ias Laniz

(83)

MAIL ROOM

11 32340858

Paye

TELETYPE UNIT I

MAILED

CA0+H:0T202ACB/

HOTE PAGE 2.

ORIGINAL

PORE FILED IN

---

## Page 3

Office of security

Department of State

SECRET

1 = Director

Central Intelligende Adeney

attentions Deputy Director,

* Plans

1 - Assiotant Chies of Staff for Intelligence

Department of the Army

Attention: Chief, Security Division

1 = Office of Special Investigations

Mi7 Porce

NOTE FOE SIC.

BeButel 7/1/59

entitled "Pedro tule Dias

tons,

Internal Security " Cuba" which revealed that Dies Lani,

who resigned da

Chleg, of the Cuban Air Porod, Coal

en voute to Floridas! In event Dias Lana is interoteusd

by your office,

he should be queationed concerning the

significance of his stotoment concerning El CortiJo farme

u)

NOTE:

The source of the information contained in this

letter is Roberto lo Lands, sales manager Cine Revista

Magazine in Havand.

Legat requested that this

identity be protected epartment of lavy reported on

6/30/59 that Diaz Lanz

Miami

cuba and. is en route to rlorida.

instructed by tel 7/1/59 to arrange to interview

Diaz Lanz if he enters U.S.

(U)

DocId: 32340858 Page 3

---

