# docid-32290241

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10205-10017

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-260

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PARRISH, THOMAS W.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/30/1961

PAGES:

52

SUBJECTS :

GAL, BKG INVEST, ASSOC, ACT, THP, MISUR, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290241

Page

266

---

## Page 2

Remart form f

Reporting Office

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

GUS

ALEX, aka.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Office of Origin

CHICAGO

Date

Investigative Period

6/6 - 26/61

6/30/61

Report made by

THOMAS W. PARRISH

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

Typed By:

bjd

Sportsy

REFERENCES:

Chicago report of SA ROBERT A. COOK dated 6/12/61.

New York letter to Chicago dated 6/15/61 (IO).

-P-

LEAD

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.

Will continue to conduct and

report investigation

concerning the background and activities

of GUS ALEX in consonance with Bureau letter to New York

dated November 27, 1957, "TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM, AR".

INFORMANTS

CG T-1 is CG 6443-C who was contacted by sAs

JOSEPH G. SHEA and WILLIAM A. MEINCKE On

6/7, 8 and 25/61;

Special Agent

In Charge

Approved

Copies made:

- Bureau (92-3182)

Do not write in spaces below

REC- 80

92-3182+260

FX116

3 - Chicago (92-373)

8o mi

VE NRIICE

1185

7221M PlA

-Ci in 4710

COVER PAGE

DISSENTATION ASTRICTED TO JUSTICE DEP AM ENT

ПЛЕ

or !

its contents are to be distributed outside the agency

to which loaned.

# U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING. OFFICE: 1955 0-344750

DocId: 32290241 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-373

CG "T-2 is a mail cover on ALEX's mailing address

9353 South Spaulding Avenue, Evergreen

Park,

Illinois;

CG T-3 is CG 6450-C*;

CG T-4 is CG 6117-C contacted by SA AUGUST C.

KEMPFF on 6/V61;

CG T-5 is CG 6446-C contacted by SA ROBERT A.

COOK on 6/14/61;

CG T-6 is PCI FRANK LA CROYX contacted by SA

THOMAS W. PARRISH on 6/20/61;

CG T-7 is PCI RUDY DRAZD contacted by SA ROBERT

A. COOK on 6/6/61;

CG T-8 is report of Dun & Bradstreet obtained by

IC FRANCIS G. KAHL on 6/8/61;

CG T-9 is Illinois State Senator ARTHUR R.

GOTTSCHALK contacted by SA THOMAS W. PARRISH on

6/26/61 (by request).

ADMINISTRATIVE

CG T-10 is CG 6343-C*.

This report has been prepared in conformance with

Bureau instructions that all information which has been

received from CG 6343-C* be paraphrased and set out in the

body of the report rather than have it listed in the cover

pages.

Therefore, all information received during the period

covered by this report from CG 6343-C* has been analyzed,

interpreted and

summarized in the body of this report by

the

reporting agent.

- B* -

COVER PAGE

507-1000-1

DocId: 32290241 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-373

TWP: lac

On May 24, 1961, Miss BETTY GEORGE, 300 East 57th

Street, Apartment 2C, New York, New York, advised SAs

DONALD E. JONES and WILLIAM D.

KANE that

she first met

GUS ALEX in approximately 1950. At that time, she was

with the road company of the broadway play,

"Kiss Me Kate".

Miss GEORGE stated that she is presently a

singer who

performs with the MILTON BERLE show.

She said that

after a performance in "Kiss Me Kate" in Chicago,

she was

with her mother at the Chez Paree Night Club, and one night

after a show was introduced to ALEX by someone whose name

she could not recall. She stated that she and ALEX had a

very short, casual conversation, mainly dealing with the

fact that they were both of Greek extraction.

She stated she next saw ALEX in 1955 when she

was appearing at the latin Quarter in New York City.

ALEX attended a show one evening and between performances

introduced her to his wife, MARIANNE, referring to her

(Miss GEORGE) as his "Greek cousin".

He invited her to

have dinner with him and his wife,

but she refused this

invitation because of a prior commitment. Miss GEORGE

stated that these are the only contacts she has had with

ALEX.

She said she knows nothing at all about what ALEX

does for a living or who his associates might be.

She

identified photographs of ALEX and his

former wife,

MARIANNE.

MiSS GEORGE further advised that during the month

of June, 1961, she will appear with MILTON BERLE at the

Flamingo Hotel in Las Vegas, Nevada, and that in the

event she comes in contact with ALEX in the future, she

will advise the New York Office of the FBI:

CG T-5 advised that he formerly operated a

horse-book at Clark and Webster Street, Chicago, and at

that time bookmakers were required to pay $400 per month

to the police for protection against harassment.

not a again

He

understands that now, each horse-book is required to make.

a payment of $400 a week for the same type of protection.

CG T-5 said that he was acquainted with LEO

"BOOKIE" SCHAEFFER when SCHAEFFER was operating one of

the largest handbooks on Fullerton Avenue in Chicago.

& 3

DoR.10011

DocId: 32290241 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-373

TWP: lac

Several years ago, the "syndicate gambling boys" tried

to muscle him out

of his business and rather than bow

to the demands of the "boys", he told them they could

have all of his business and

he would leave the Chicago

area.

He did this and went to Newport, Kentucky, where

e operated a book for a while, then went to Montreal,

Canada, and returned to Terre Haute,

Indiana, where he

was arrested for bookmaking, in 1958. He was arrested

by federal authorities and indicted for not paying the

10 per cent gross federal tax on gambling bets.

On June 14, 1961, CG T-5 advised that he had

recently been in contact with GUS LIEBE and LIEBE informed

him that the Jad Picnic Grove is still operating as a

gambling casino on weekends in Will County, Illinois.

CG T-5 stated that LESTER KRUSE is also working with

LIEBE at the J&J Picnic Grove.

He stated he is quite

certain that GUS ALEX, in addition to other Chicago top

hoodlums, are deriving a great deal of income from this

gambling operation.

Sergeant FRANK NASH, Intelligence Unit, Chicago

Police Department, advised that he has recently received

information that GUS ALEX has taken over the gambling and

other illegal operations of the 45th Ward of Chicago. His

associates and assistants in this venture are MARSHALL

CAIFANO and FELIX

"MILWAUKEE PHIL" ALDERISIO. Sergeant

NASH did not furnish the source nor the basis for the

1 the sou

above information.

III. LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES

CG T-1 has previously advised that the Alberto-

Culver Company, which manufactures VO-5 hair preparations,

and whose plant is located in Melrose Park, Illinois, has

"outfit" people connected with its ownership and operation.

CG T-8 advised that the Alberto-Culver Company,

manufacturer of cosmetics at 2525 Armitage Avenue, Melrose

Park, Illinois, is an Illinois corporation whose present

management control began in 1954. The following is a list

of officers and their titles:

de 10

902018011

DocId: 32290241 Page 5

---

