A

‘OPTIONAL FORM NO. 19
MAY 1982 EDITION
SSA GEN. WiG..NO. 27

“UNITED STATES Gt. 2RNMENT

Memorandum

oe 0408.09

ReBucab 6/29/65,

TO Director, FBI (92-3182) DATE: 9/17/65
7 FROM egat, Bern (92-10) -(P)

SUBJECT: GUS "ALEX, aka ¥
| AR _—

Enclosed for the information of the Bureau are 3

- copies of a letter dated 9/14/6
Police Bureau (SCPB).

5 from the Swiss. Central

eavested to hold any investigation

The Bureau. i: y
in this nafterin abovenee ending TecSipt” of answer tong
Ctontmanreat ion. to the. SCPB. by Leeat Bern, redues ting infor: me @
mation’ as to why the Swi i X Be" ff

two différe persons

invoivedrin=thrs atts

e there m

(1 - Liaison) ‘ . hy 0-1, 9p fos,
1. Chicago) (92-373) (info) aad fe Cheng go a

fe @®. Bureau (Encl, apncioarne
\

i HDG:ml1s
i (5)

54

(
BX yy5 “4099
Rg, a7 228 - ee 7

@ Sep Mocs

—_

DIAIZIOn
ebecivr IRAE LIGVLIAE
BECEIAED

db Shy 30 by p
lo Be

ao SEP 29 1969 :

Ase
SS deb |S : »

\ : eae eee

Docld:32556687 Page 1



\

SCHWEIZERISCHES ZENTRALPOLIZEIBUREAU, :
- BUREAU CENTRAL SUISSE DE POLICE
UFFICIO CENTRALE SVIZZERO DI POLIZIA | -

|No. ED 4493 HZ/Hb SE ye Henxy D. Grustl

alte tad oF ae i Attache
‘ALEX Gus, born April 1, 1914 yo o> American Embassy

5 tae _ Q 3000 Bern
“Ref. No ; ace ee aaa

Dear Sir:

As you know, since the letter of your Office of February 1 9
above named person was held under control each year when he came
to Switzerland for his winter~holidays. In this letter he was

’ @eseribed as a well-known gangster in the United-States and as a

4 member of the Chicago:crime syndicate. For this reason, your
services asked for a discreet cpéck of his activities and contacts
while in Switzerland. Letter of April 227 1959, your office" H
sent us a photograph of this/ in order to ftacilitate searches. /

1 With letter of May 12,1959, lye, received ‘from your Office subject's
et fingerprints, taken in’ USA under . 6244200 and under the name of  ;
Alex Gus. : wut ey .

With letter of January: a5" 1963", 46 sent to your office copy of a:
w& letter handwritten by ALEX Wt... to Baur-au-Lac Hotel in
’ Zurich. 7 1

With letter, of January 6, 1964 we forwarded to your office a,

.. hotel control note signed by ALEX and a copy of his passport,

. w number DO74551, issued in Chicago ph 3/21/63 (date of birth |
“oo April 1,°1916). - : :

With letter of January 17, 19644 we informed you that ALEX had
telephon contacts with nr. 312 GA 38675 in Evergreen Park/I1l.-
. (this number appears again in subsequent letters of our office).
gh We sent you also 2 photographs taken at the Schlosshotel in
Pontresina, showing ALEX and FUEGUR Dietgard, as well as a copy”.
of the note of arrival at the s:

tel filled in by ALEX.
u! With letter of January 24, 1964 forwarded to your office a
oC + photograph showing ALEX and FUEG

when arriving at Zurich-Airport.
| With letter of January 14, 196%, we sent to you another copy of

j hotel control note filled in by ALEX at the Schlosshotel 1) i
Pontresina. Bee eo 5) oo “} j
— ae < ft i
Due to your various’ roquples-t mee 4nd control \s ALEX's ee
{ stays and contacts in Switzerland, the Zurich Police proposed :

an interdiction of entry in Switzerland against ALEX who, on the

ENCLOSURE ||

Docld:32556687 Page 2


<<pase of the informations received from USA, must be c' saa
“> an undesirable foreigner. Therefore, a respective intepgghtees
F entry was pronounced against ALEX on February 3, 1965 foygacie)
Federal Office dealing with Foreigners. This measure wag)
1 i +o ALEX on his return to Chicago (letter of Chicago Pouky
ae March 16, 1965). Subsequently, ALEX appealed against :
interdiction of entry, pretending that the panished p,
identical with him. :

On the base of the examination of hotel note copies,
and the photographs mentioned above, the Swiss Fede
dealing with Foreigners comes to the assumption tha :
who was the subject of your requests and the interdictulo f entry
jos _ into Switzerland may be two different persons. Due to these facts,
| ALEX will be allowed to enter Switzerland on a furfher visit at
the end of this year.

Therefore, we ask you to kindly let have made a new check in your
country, on the base and by comparison the documents sent by you
(photograph and fingerprints) and the pieces sent by us (copies of
hotel notes, copy of passport with photograph and photographs

. taken in Zurich and Pontresina) in order to establish whether we
a. are in front of two different persons named ALEX Gus, forwarding
us the results of this enquiry at your earliest convenience.

Very truly yours,
BUREAU CENTRAL SUISSE DE POLICE

LE CHEF:

Docld:32556687 Page 3
