JFK Assassination System

Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10277-10406
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 97-4474-158, 159
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC,MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
‘TITLE:
: DATE: = 12/03/1964
PAGES: Yu
SUBEECTS : :
MIRR, ASSOC, OBA, EXTORTION PLOT, ACA, ATTEMPT, AIR
ATTACK, HAVANA BASEBALL STADIUM, CUBA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/16/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : INC LHM, 2 A/T

vod
DocId:32301071. Page 1


FU-36 (Rev, $222-64)

FBI
oa SEQRET,,

(Type in plaintext or code)

nT
Transmit the following in PLAIN TEXT :

Vio __ AIRTEL REGISTERED MAIL
(Priority)
TO: DIRECTOR (97-4474) ars. .s
FROM: SAC, MIAMI M) . -
, (108-2868)

(

Goviurmvro IN
RECUPERACION™
GITRR

Enclosed are twelve copies of a LHM, dated ard
captioned as above. \

Copies are being furnished locally to
* INS; CIA; G-2; Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, U. S. i \
Department of State; U. S. Coast Guard; U. S. Customs \
(3), Miami, Region II and Key West; U. S. Border Patrol; |
ONI; and, OSI. : -}

The Bureau is being furnished an extra copy
for its file 9-42758, in the case entitled, "ORLANDO
BOSCH AVILA, Aka, Etal; JULIO CESAR IGLESIAS - VICTIM,
Etal; EXTORTION."

On 11/23/64, Mr. JOSEPH VIDAL, covert, liaison,

CIA, Miami, advised that CIA has no interest in the raid

announced by BOSCH, and he received no confirmation that
any such raid had taken place.(¥ BR) u)

o~

‘4.- Bureau (Encls.-12) (RM)
(1 - 9.42758):
2 - Miami (1 - 105-2855)-

(1 - 9-1706) ‘ 99- Y ¥

ce aia 1
or oe hil edie |
oe 'gf
Ae
bts
.
Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

DocId:32301071 Page 2

a CATION


a

FD-36 (Rev. §-22-64)

Transmit the following in _ SEC 9 T

©

Cy

FBl

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code}

MM 105-2855

further steps in furtherance of their extortion plot to
obtain money from their Cuban victims. It appears that
BOSCH's announcement concerning the raid was a complete
fabrication, and that no further investigation is
warranted under the circumstances.

LEAD
MIAMI:
Will. continue to investigate the activities of
BOSCH and his associates in the MIRR for intelligence

purposes, and determine if they are violating any Federal
laws.

ADDENDUM ;
MM T-1 is MM 492-8.

T-2 is [era J og +)

MM T-3 is Key Source - Cuba, EVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ.{4

1 -3-.

Approved: She M Per
Special Agent in Charge

?

DocId:32301071 Page 3
