# docid-32292870-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10210-10146

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-317, 318

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, TP

•TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

09/21/1961

LST, WHEREABOUTS, ASSOC, ACT, ADMIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

10/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC TTY, RGM

v9.1

18

---

## Page 2

9-22-51

CODE

TELETYPE

UNG ENT

2781-317

TO SAC, MIAMI

FROM DIRECTOR, FBI

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., AKA., AR. RE TAIPA RADIOGRAM NINE TWENTY

ONE LAST. TRAFFICANTE DESIGNATED BY BUREAU FOR CRASH INVESTIGATION

AND IT IS

IPERATIVE WAT THIS CASE RECEIVE PREFERRED INVESTIGATIVS

ATTENTION. REFERENCED RADIOGRAM INDICATES, ACCORDING TO INFORMANT

SOURCE, SUBJECT PRESENTLY RESIDING IN MIALI TERRITORY WHILE ATTEMPT

ING TO OPEN GAMBLING ESTABLISHHONT THERE AND IS CONCEALING HIS

IDENTITY AND WHEREABOUTS. ASCERTAIN SUBJECT'S EXACT WHPREABOUTS IN

MIAMI AREA AND HIS CURRENT ACTIVITIES. CONSIDER COVERING PRESENT +-

ACTIVITIESGYNOUGH UTILIZATION OF HIGHLY CONTIDENTIAL SOURCES AND

TECHNIQUES JND SUSHIT REQUEST IF ADVISABLE.

PRS: pewde

-4=

NOTE: Trafficante missing from Tampa area for several weeks. TP

informant advises saw him in Miami 9-11-61 and in conversation informed

subject intended to set up gambling operation.

Miami being instructor

to determine exact location and cover present activities.

QUECIEN

38617

: 20601'

1111

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

,Evans

Malone

• Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele, Room

Ingram =

" Candy -

308?

MAIL ROOM

VIA TELETYPE

SEP 221961

8: 06871

TELETYPE UNIT

---

## Page 3

4-ül (Rer, 6-2-6190

DECODED COPY

X& Radio

• Teletype

Tolson.

Belmont

Mohi —

Callahan

Conrad.

DeLoach

Evans -

Malone .

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter.

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy -

DEFERRED

9-21-61

TO

DIRECTOR AND SAG, MIAMI

FROM

SAC, TAMPA

211630

TRAFFICANTE, JRO, AKA., AR. DAILY TELETYPE. TP 41 Pel

ADVISED SEPTEMBER 20, HE WENT TO MIAMI SEPTEMBER 10 AND ON SEP- /O

TEMBER 11 FOUND SUBJECT AND JAMES C. LONGO HAVING COFFEE AT LA

HACIENDA RESTAURANT, NORTHWEST SEVENTH STREET, MIAMI. SOURCE

REPORTED SUBJECT ADVISED HE DID NOT WANT ANYONE TO KNOW EXACTLY

WHERE HE IS RESIDING. SOURCE SAID SUBJECT INFERRED HE WAS

TRYING TO OPEN UP A GAMBLING ESTABLISHMENT, SUCH AS OBTAINING A

LEASE FOR A PENTHOUSE AT A HOTEL. SOURCE STATES HE PRESSED SUB-

JECT FOR FUTURE CONTACT AND SUBJECT TOLD HIM THAT HE COULD GO TO

THE BAR ON THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF MIAMI AVENUE AND A NORTHEAST

ELEVENTH STREET, MIAMI, AND THAT "THEY'LL GET IN TOUCH WITH HUM'"

SOURCE NOTED THAT THIS

BAR IS LOCATED ACROSS STREET FROM OLD LA

CONCHA RESTAURANT, THAT JIMMY DUCA, AKA. JIMMY DUGAN, MARRIED

THE DAUGHTER OF THE FELLOW WHO USED TO OWN LA CONCHA, AND THAT

DUCA IS BOLITA BANKER IN MIAMI. SOURCE ADVISED HE WILL MAKE

ANOTHER TRIP TO MIAMI IN FUTURE. TP 50 PCI ADVISED SEPTEMBER 20

THAT SUBJECT IN MIAMI AND HE CANNOT DETERMINE SUBJECT'S EXACT

ADDRESS ONLY TWO PERSONS KNOWING SAME WOULD BE SAM TRAFFICANTE

AND AUGUSTINE PRIMO LAZZARA.

POI SANDRA RALBUEKY, PROTECT,

ADVISED SEPTEMBER 19 LAST THAT JAMES LONGO WAS IN TAMPA ON

SEPTEMBER 17 INDICATING HE HAD JUST RETURNED FROM BEING OUT OF:

TAMPA ABOUT ONE WEEK. JAMES LONGO AT COLUMBIA RESTAURANT ON

SEPTEMBER 20 ENGAGED AGENTS IN CONVERSATION STATING HE HAD JUST

RETURNED FROM MIAMI, THAT HE WAS NOT IN CONTACT WITH SUBJECT

REG 98

12-₴

T&ti 317

Am to

22đE 27 1961

a

f the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

---

