# docid-32578777

## Page 1

SECRET

Assistant Attorney General

J. Walter Yeagley

• Mr. Simpson

January 18, 1961

2-4-94

Director, FBI

Classified bysp&se

Declassify on: OADA

nods

EIFK

LOVIMIENTO DIMOCRATICO CHRISTIANO

Classified by fully e

(CHRISTIAN DEVOCRATIC MOVEMENT-MDC)

REGISTRATION ACT = CUBA

Declassily on: 0ng

ALL INTORKATION CONTAINED

MEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIRD

EXCAPI PHERE SHONA

(DER)

OTHARTIE

GMB 210/07

Agasmage 241326413192

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASCIFICATION AND/OR

RELSAS: OF CIA INFORMATION

AS SANITIZE

THE DOCUMENT

Reference is nade to my memorandum dated

November 29, 1960, requesting that this Bureau be advised

whether information furnished indicated a violation of

neutrality statutes under the jurisdiction of the FBI

warranting further investigation.

there is enclosed

for your additional information one copy of a nemorandum

dated January 10, 1961, at Miami, Florida, concerning

this organization.

*On January 3, 1961, Mr.

Robert

Hopkins of

the central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in Miami, Florida,

advised that the CIA had acquired an operational interest

in the above organization and its activities, in

view

01 the interest of Clax this Bureau is conducting no

inquiries concerning this organization with respect. to a

possible violations of neutrality statutes in the absence

of a specific request from

the Departnent of Justice.

=

REC- 82 Enclosure

97-4110 -

2. Miami, (97-328)

DEJE

strokson ate (enclosures - 2)

SHE REVERSE

SIDE FOR

CLAPOLFICALION

ACTION

ATTENTION:

•SACS

MIAMI AND JACKSONVILLE

OTAT :

LOT NET

Tolson

Mohr

Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

De Loach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan .

Tele. Room -

Ingrain -

Gandy

Re Miani

letter dated January 10, 1961.

One copy each of Miami letter dated January 10,; i

1961,

and its enclosure, is being furnished for the

information of the Jacksonville Office:

MAILED 27

JAN 1 8 1961

ito dash

COMM-FBI

RDS: PUN

SEE NOTE ON YELLOW! PAGE TWO

SECRET

23

JAN 38-1961

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId:32578777

Page 1

burces

BIAN

3CL

---

## Page 2

Ni

SECRET

UNITED STATES

ERNMENT

Memorar sum

139032

'iT!

TO

: Director, FBI (97-4110)

DATE:

1/10/61

SAC, Miami (97-328)

SUBJECT

MOV IMIENTO DEMOCRATICO CHRISTIANO

(CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC MOVEMENT -MDC)

RA - CUBA.

s/a/a4 spamachole

Classified by Mutty le Sources,

Declassify on: DADR BJANC

130/85

Enclosed are five copies of a letterhead memor andum,

ALL INPORRATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPY WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

dated and captioned as above, at Miami.

MM I-1 is Lieutenant Colonel MAURICE H. SHORAGO,

Group Commander of 9187 Air Reserve Group, who is a member

of Decor International, an import-export firm located at 1795

Coral Way, Miami JE1(54)0*)(4)

On December 22, 1960, Colonel SHORAGO advised that

the MDC had been brought under the sponsorship of the CIA.(&X

One tay 3, 1961, E, ROBERT HORRENG ON ORA,

Miami, confirmed that the CIA

had acquired an operational

interest in the MDC and its

activities, as previously re-

ported to the Bureau by this office.(5)(5)

CIA HAS NO

DECLASCISIGATION AND/OR

RELEAS: CP GIA INFORMATION

MENT GMB 419/97

GERS

In view of CIA's interest, Miami will conduct no

attend to could tent lace ciA. 4)

IN THIS SOMENT

This communication is characterized as "Secret"

is unauthorized disclosure could result in serious damage f

he United States and could have a bearing on our national

defense..

. 1008

UNRES. CO

1005-899236

Mi am 11(9:73328)

postalge 214326-4/8792

92-41j0.627,

AVERSE

SIDE

CLASS

ACTIONS

CED: CRY

1-18-61

SECRET

DocId: 32578777 Page 2

---

