# docid-32307759

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10293-10117

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-4213-7, 8,9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LEE, IVAN D.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/23/1966

19

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/01/1998

JFC, ASSOC, REL, RES, BUSS, LCN, INTV, MUSSO, ROSARIO

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 2 RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32307759

Page

1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev, 9-17-65)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

ROSARIO MUSSO aka

Ross Musso

DATE

3/23/66

REPORT MADE BY

IVAN D.

LEE

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

1/18 - 3/17/66

AR

REFERENCES:

Dallas report of SA IVAN D. LEE, 1/24/66.

Bureau airell ge A may, captioned "Criminal

, 1/31/66.

-P-

ENCLOSURES TO BUREAU: Two copies of LHM setting forth

characterization of the informants mentioned in the details

of this report.

LEADS :

DALLAS

AT DALLAS, TEXAS.

(1) Will continue to cover subject's activities and

contacts through surveillances in the

the area of the Airway Liquor Store.

area of his residence and in

Case has been: Pending over one year

Yes

X No; Pending prosecution over six months CJ Yes [No

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGEN

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

3 - Bureau (92-4213) (Eno+2)

1 - USA, Fort Worth

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-4213-7

ZUPIES DESTROY EL

Dallas (92-195)

928JUN 1 912

12

MAR 28 1966

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

54 APRI

itCe

Kince

SPAT. SECT,

1966,

a, d

TYPED BY

gCS

DocId: 32307759 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 92-195

(2) Will also maintain contact with sources

and informants to ascertainssubject's activities.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Investigation of MUSSO is usually conducted in

conjunction with investigation of his brother-in-law,

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO inthat they usually travel together

and live at the same residence.

It is noted that the telephone

at his residence, 4908 Gulfstream, is listed in the name of the

subject, however

leads concerning the toll calls are set forth

in Dallas report on JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO.

The information concerning the telephone toll calls

was furnished to SA IVAN D. LEE by JAMES VAUGHAN, JR., Area

Security Supervisor, Southwestern Bell Telephone Company,

Dallas.

The referenced Bureau airtel rejested certain

information concerning the subject in order that it could be

placed on ADP cards.. This material is set forth in report under

the caption "Miscellaneous".

The Best Source is listed as

DL 275 with symbol number C-TE.

INFORMANTS:

DL T-I is DL 275-C-TE.

DL T-2 is PCI JAMES BROWN.

-

B*

"COVER

PAGE

DocId: 32307759

Page

---

## Page 4

+5=263 (Rev. 9-17-651

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALIAS

LALIAS

TITLE OF CASE

ROSA nO MuSSO, aka

Ross

MuSSC

DATE

5/25/65

REPORT MADE BY

IVAN D. LEE

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/14 - 5/13/60

AR

WTONGAC:

Dallas report of SA IVAN D. LAL cated 3/23/56.

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU

Two (2)

copies of LuM setting forth characteri-

sation of informants mentioned in the details of this

report.

LEA IS

TALLAS

AT DALLAS

TEXAS (1). mill obtain toll calls

CAO2KC0 LE

Subject's

number and report the

informatir: concerning

the calis in the next report submitted.

Case has been: Pending over one year O Yes L No; Pending prosecution over six months D Yes LNo

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-4213-8 RECI3

3 - Burcas (12-1213) (Lact)

1. - USA, Fort Worth

2 - Dallas

(02-195)

COPTES DESTROYED

328 , *Distemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

C

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

56 JUNT

1966

DocId: 32307759 Page 4

14

MAY 31 1966.

Notations

Cmes

FAN SECT.

TYPED BY

---

## Page 5

DL. 92-195

It is noted that leads obtained from the toll

calls are set forth in report of his brother-in-law, JOSEPH

CIVELLO.

(2). Will maintain contact with informants

and

sources

and conduct spot surveillances to cover

the

subject's

activities and contacts.

ADMINISTRATIVE

It is noted that the investigative period overlaps

that of referenced report; however, information contained

in this report was not available at the time referenced

report was submitted. Observation of the subject indicates

that he is spending a considerable amount of time working

at the Airway Liquor Store owned by his brother-in-law,

CHARLES CIVELLO.

No information has been obtained to indicate

that MUSSO has been outside the Dallas area since his trip

to Hot Springs, Arkansas.

The information from the Farm and Home Savings

Association was furnished to SA IVAN D. LEE by Mrs. BONNIE

STRUDWICK, secretary to the Vice President.

INFORMA NTS

DL T-1 is DL 275-C-TE.

DL T-2 is PCI JOHN BROWN.

DL T-3 is DL 299-PC.

- B*-

Cover

Page

9513-19911

DocId: 32307759

Page

---

## Page 6

FD-263 (Tier. 9-17-651

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

ROSARIO MUSSO, aka

Ross Musso

DATE

7/1/66

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/21-6/24/66

IVAN D. LEE

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

REFERENCE: Dallas report of SA IVAN D. LEE, 5/25/66.

TYPED B

ilp

-P-

Agency

Request Recd.

Date fwd.

How Fwd.

BY

122

Pa Sist

DocId: 32307759 Page 6

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU

Two (2) copies of LHM setting forth characteri-

zation of informants mentioned in the details of

this report.

LEADS:

DALLAS

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

1. Will continue to conduct spot surveillances on the

subject at his residence and in the area of the Airway Liquor

Store to ascertain his activities.

Case has been: Pending over one year ] Yes X No; Pending prosecution over six months

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

1. 9916

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Yes

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-421319

REC-

3-Bureau (92-4213)

Ï-USA, Fort Worth

2-Dallas (92-195)

11 JUL 6

1966

COPIES DESTROYEN

928 JUN 1 1972

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

1

62 CC

71 1966

---

