JFK Assassination System Date: 6/11/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10198-10321

RECORD SERIES: HQ

“AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2781-724

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, TP
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/31/1963
“PAGES: 2

SUBIECTS :
LST, INFORMANT, ACT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
. CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
“® DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/15/1998 i

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

vl 27
DoclId: 32288045 Page 1


FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56) :

Dt i)
ee a i)
| G Caan

Ww FBI
y
wnt i Date; 5/31/63

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)
AIRTEL AIR MAIL
(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Fed ase ee a getopig aut ggaasgneaapeagaapelga gasp ah gane en aageitadseessiseesesaeislseeisassseesaesaeenslsseOe eastecaasat eassetasUistee a steeisetenE gleeeaseeceeeieseeteeee sie
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)
| SAC, MIAMI (92-88)
Ww FROM: SAC, TAMPA (92-1) (P) a
SUBJECT: pe aes ee JR., aka
AR
: 0O - TAMPA

WEEKLY SUMMARY

On 5/27/63, WILLIE MAE JACKSON, PCI, (PROTECT),
advised subject was home, 2505 Bristol Ave., on 5/25/63,
when source was last at such residence, and source obtained
no indication subject leaving immediately. Source advised {
subject does not discuss personal affairs and was of ro
opinion Mr. and Mrs, TRAFFICANTE, particularly Mrs,,
would be around her home during May and June because
of the impending wedding of SARAH ANN.

On 5/27/63, JAMES W. DONOFRIO, PCI, (PROTECT), A

advised subject was definitely not in the presence of JAMES
W. DONOFRIO when DONOFRIO ate at the Palms Restaurant,
5/22/63, which establishment is run by JOE BEDAMI. Source™
said BEDAMI went up to DONOFRIO and talked with him, but
there was no indication SANTO TRAFFICANTE had been at the
establishment,

On 5/27/63, J. H. MC BRIDE and MARY MOTT, >
National Airlines, downtown ticket office, advised after
a check of records, that SANTO TRAFFICANTE had not used
any National Airlines transportation using his own name

since 5/1/63, : 7
@z Bureau & 942 Bla PF |
1 - Tampa : ailleeeiis
SJL:¢1s

(6) re

\ ‘ST nae ie a Y

ies |
re ree ecial Agent in Charge |

@5 JUN 2 1963

Docld:32288045 Page 2


Hee

a iC ae é

TP 92-1

On the same date, JULIAN ACOSTA, National Airlines,
and JOE CRENSHAW, Eastern Airlines, Tampa International
Airport, both of whom know subject, advised subject had
not been seen using any of their flights.

On 5/27/63, Deputy LOWELL STEVE, Sheriff's Office,
advised he observed subject, SAM TRAFFICANTE, JIMMY LONGO,
and AUGUST PANIELLO at the Columbia Restaurant At about
9:00 PM the foursome left the Columbia and went directly
to 2505 Bristol Avenue, and a check of the residence at
midnight disclosed that SAM TRAFFICANTE, JIMMY LONGO
and subject were in subject's living room watching tele-
vision, .

PETE AYALA, Airport Police, on 5/28/63, advised he
knew subject and his body guard, JIMMY LONGO, but that
he had not seen them in a.couple of months at the airport.
He said a car would drive up’and leave an individual off and
the car would then drive off, and he was of the opinion a
LONGO drove subject to the airport on occasions.

On 5/28/63, WILLIE MAE JACKSON, PCI, advised '
SANTO TRAFFICANTE was home on 5/27/63, and that when zs
SANTO TRAFFICANTE was told that the FBI had been in :
numerous contacts with his maid, SANTO told the maid that %
she did not have to talk to the FBI, and that she should
have nothing to do with the FBI agents.

At 1:15 PM, PETE AYALA teleponically advised

SA LABADIE that subject was on TWA flight leaving the
airport at 1:15 PM and he did not know the flight number.
TWA advised the flight leaving Tampa International Airport e i
i
|

at 1:15 PM was TWA flight number 550 due to arrive at
Miami at 2:19 PM. The Miami Office was telephonically
advised of the above information at 1:21 PM.

| Docla:32288045 Page 3
