# docid-32309408

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10298-10195

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-332

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/27/1961

5

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32309408

258

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD- 61 Rey. 12-13-561

FBI

Date:

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

7/28/61

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRIEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

SAC, NEW YORK (92-793)

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA; aka

6•84

UNCLASSIRIED

CONTAINED

ReNYtel to Bureau dated 7/24/61.

RANDY E. BURKE, Garage Manager, Taft Garage Corp.,

524 East 73rd Street, NYC, was interviewed by SAS PAUL G.

DURKIN and CHARLES Q. DONNELLY on 7/25/61, and he advised

that in addition to his duties of Garage Manager, he

likewise drives for the McGuire Sisters.

In connection

with his chauffeuring duties, he stated that he met the

subject about one year ago and claims that he never knew

his last name to be GIANCANA but that he believed it to

be MOONEY. However in general, he related that he

generally referred to subject as "Mr. SAM". y

BURKE advised that during the past year as far

as he knows subject has been the boyfriend of PHYLLIS

MC GUIRE.

He added that he was very surprised that the

romance has lasted this long inasmuch as PHYLLIS had many

boyfriends in

the past but has had none of them for any

prolongee time.

He said in his opinion the romance has lasted

subelsted this long because subject generally travels to

various cities where the McGuire Sisters will be doing a show.

3" Bureau (92-3171)

1- Chicago..

(92-349)

I- Newark (92-958)

I- New York (92-793)

REG- 91

92-3171-332

PGD : ald

(7)

8 JUL 28 1961

C C # Wickli

Approved:

62 AUG 1

DocId: 32309408

Page 2

Copm

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

_ M

Per

---

## Page 3

NY 92-793

BURKE advised that he knew very little concerning

the background of subject and only knows that he was a gangster

and hoodlum because he was so informed by JOHN TEETER,

the husband of CHRISTINE MC GUIRE.

with the subject, BURKE claimed that he never

his associates and never learned

anything about his activities. U

BURKE further related that generally subject attempts

to appear as a legitimate businessman and no type of

Illegitimate activity was ever disclosed. y

About Christmas, 1960, BURKE said he recalled

that GIANCANA was in New York City and that on one

occasions he chauffeured him while he went shopping,

however, he advised he did not know the exact places he

went inasmuch as subject woutheret out of the car at a

particular intersection and/ini

ormed BURKE to walt there

until he returned.

Because of traffic conditions he would

have to drive around the block and usually the subject would

be waiting for him.

On this particular shopping tour, BURKE

has no knowledge of any specific item which subject purchased

either for

himself or for PhYLLIs Mc GuIrE.U

Recently according to BURKE, subject gave PHYLLIS

a new 1961 Cadillac White Convertible. He added that he

has no direct knowledge of this but that it was heresay

information most likelys

te said, he heard this either

from PHYLLIS' sisters

or their husbands. u

BURKE advised that in a general way he is familiar

with PHYLLIS' jewelry collection and as far as he knows

subject only gave her a very expensive set of earrings

or necklace. Again he claimed that he was not able to

determine the value of any particular pieced jewelry

but heard that the gift was expensive either from the

sisters or their husbands. u

- 2

DocId: 32309408

Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-793

BURKE never knew subject in the past year to

have given PHYLLIS any kind of

a mink or fur coat.

added that he knows the sisters have identical fur pieces.u

While in New York City BURKE advised that subject

has stayed overnight in PHYLLIS' apartment and the only

other place he stayed to his knowledge while In New York

City was at the Hotel Plaza.

However, he added he has no

knowledge whether subject used his true name or an alias

while registered at this Hotel. u

BURKE said that while in conversation with the

subject in December, 1960, subject mentioned that he

Had been in Miami.

He claimed

he never knows subject's

definite plans for travel but was of the opinion that he

returned to Chicago each time after leaving the various

cities. U

on sunday, 7/23/61, BURKE advised that he went

to the Seaside Hotel, Atlantic City, New Jersey, in order

to drive the station wagon back to New York City. As far

as he knew PHYLLIS was going to drive her new car, however,

he doubts that PHYLLIS would drive this distance and

even though he does not have definite knowledge, he is of

the opinion that subject drove PHYLLIS back to New York

City and most likely 1s still in the city.

In the event,

subject is in New York City BURKE 1s of the opinion

that he will be either staying at PHYLLIS' apartment or

at the Plaza Hotel. He added that most llkely he will be

in contact with PHYLLIS and that he will attempt to

discreetly ascertain subject's current whereabouts.U

On Monday, 7/24/01, BURKE advised that he picked

up PHYLLIS' car and

stored it in his garage inasmuch as

he was informed by her that she would not have use for it

during the next week.u

On each occasion that he has seen subject he

said he has been very expensively dressed and he recalls

he

wears very expensive shoes however, he has

never seen

- 3-

DocId: 32309408 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NY 92-793

him wear the same pair of shoes on two occasions. BURKE

said that the McGuire Sisters when they go out together in

New York City will visit the Waldorf Room, Basin Street East,

Little Club, Hotel Plaza, Ghambors, Four Seasons, and the

Forum of the Seven Caesers.: Formerly they also frequently

visited the King Henry V Restaurant but because of an

incident there in the recent past,

they do not go there

anymore.

According to BURKE, CHRISTINE and DOROTHY MC GUIRE

also go to the theater but PHYLLIS does not

go. inasmuch as

she does not like the theater shows. v

BURKE advised that PHYLLIS will be going to

Mass, in the near future but as yet he does nothnow the exact

date.

He added that he believes the sisters' next show

will be on the Ed Sullivan Program and that immediately

arterward they will leave for an engagement in London. y

BURKE requested that any information he furnishes

be kept confidential by the FBI because of his relationship

with the McGuire Sisters.

In viewof this, a Pcl case

will be opened in the New York Office.

He added that he

will cooperate

in every way possible with the. FBI and

positively will not inform PHYLLIS or any members of her

family that he has been contacted by the FBI. U

During the late part of the afternoon on 7/25/61,

BURKE telephonically advised SA DURKIN that he had just

received a phone call from PHYLLIS who informed him to drive

her car to her residence.

He said that most likely she

wanted him to do something and that the car was not for

her personal use. U

On 7/26/61, BURKE advised SA DURKIN that PHYLLIS

wanted him to fix her air conditioner in her apartment and

also to give him the registration for the car.

He said

that the car is actually registered in her name, however,

- 4

DocId: 32309408 Page 5

---

## Page 6

"Un'

NY 92-793

he advised that he knows the car was purchased in Chicago

and that he checked the mileage and is of the opinion that

it was driven from Chicago to Las

Vegas to Atlantic City

and then to New York City.

After fixing the air conditioner

BURKE returned her car to the garage. U

BURKE advised that subject was not in the apartment

while he was there and that after discreetly checking 1t

doubts that he has been there during the past several days. y

TERRY MC PARTLAND, Secretary to JOHN J. WALSH,

comptroller, Plaza Hotel, 59ch Street and 5ch Avenue, New

York City,

advised SaabAuDed. DURKIN on 7/25/61, that subject

'Is not currently registered under his true name or commonly

used allases.

She also advised a check of the guest card

history failed to reflect any registration for him in the

past. 4

On 7/25/61, photographs of the subject were displayed

to JERRY COLLINS, JOHN DRISCOLL and ART YOUNG, elevator

operators at PHYLLIS MC GUIRE's residence, 525 Park

Avenue, New Yok City. U

at they dinot see the subject ween her anne ouRs

24 or 25/61.

GIANCANA SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

- 5 .

DocId: 32309408

Page

---

