# docid-32177778

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICAMION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10193-10026

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 105-122167-36

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, WMFO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/10/1964

PAGES: 7

SUBJECT:

JR, TRIAL, ASSOC WITH LHO, CONSPR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Secret

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

10/23/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

DocId: 32177778

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev: 40-29-63%

FBI

Transmit the following in

SEUNER Date: 3/10/64

(Type in plain text or code)

Avia

AIRTEL

(Priority)

Mr. Tolson ----

Mr.

Belmont.

IIr. Mohr-

Mr. -Casper.

Mr.

Callalian

Mr.

Conrad_

Mr.

DeLoach.

Mr.

Evans :.

Mr.

Gale.

Mr.

Kose

Mr.

Sullivam

Mr. Tavo

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room-

Miss. Holmes.

Miss Gaudy.

TO :

DIRECTOR, ГBIX(105-122167)

FROM:

SAC, WFOX(105-54592)](P)

SMTLOSLAV CHROBOK]

IS - cz

TOO: WFO)

es with enc

ne

A93OS CONTALNEO

ReWFOairtel 3/2/64.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668500/60

DECLASSIFY O1I: 25X C)(6)

Enclosed are the original and four copies of a

(JFKS

IHM and

an equal number of evaluation menos setting orie

the results of a meeting between the subject and WE 1154

(52/28/64, but subject failed to appear. Informant advised

that on the afternoon of 3/2464, he was contacted at his

oftice by sybject and a meeting was scheduled for the

evening of B/kg4.

informant was contacted on 3/4k64 at

which time he was instructed to attempt to engage

in conversation concerning his background and family history

CRETIESE

informant

in 1944.

concerning the slovak uprisinte

in Czechoslovakia

Level inged

Subject and informant met in front of the Penn

Theater,

650

PennsyLvania Ave, s.E., atct:00 p.m. on the

subject took informant agE pennsylvania

Ave.,. S.E.,

where they remained until approximately 8:50 p.m

3 Sureau a

EnC

2- WFO

CAPAR

205-122167-368894

S1/ Cia

AGENCY

RED. RECO

DATE BIAL

NOW FORM.

REG- 140

3 MAR 12:1964

RFO: laj

(5)

AIRTEL

MAR

c. C. Wick

ни

« sent -

Specide

agen

in Charge)

11. 0

_M Per

x(5)

ERNECORDRD

LOPT SHED 1

DIMA

DocId:32177778

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRED

WFO*105-54592

14)

As noted in the LHM,lsubject suggested to informant

that he might desire to prepare an article for publication

in a Czech periodical.

The informant stated that prior to

this discussion with

subject, that he had thought of this

matter and was considering preparing an article concerning

the twentieth anniversary of the Slovak uprising. He said

that he also considered writing a figtional type article

He commented that as a leader of this uprising,

qualified to write on it and felt that his article would

receive publication in Czechoslovakia, providing he did not

appear to be tocritical of the Communist Party (CP) :

Informant expressed some hesitation as to whether or not

he should prepare this article because of the fact that he

Us an employee of the Federal Government SHe said that he

felt that some people in the U.S, would attempt to get him

in trouble with his employment if he prepared such an article.

Informant was instructed that the FBI could not tell him what

to do in this matter, but it was suggested that he contact

the Security Officer

him of his plans.

monton to hit ortoo a rotation its tho tub, on

his cooperation with the FBi.

with the BIs do lation struc

Informant stated that he would

not take any steps on this subject without checking with

this Security

officer, and he would advise of the results of

this meeting

retained intormant's thesis on the slovak uprising.

failed to give a reason for Keeping the paper.

the Nazi Occupation of Czechoslovakia and its subsequent

effect upon bastern European history. It is possible that

subject retained informant's paper in order to plagiarize

Informant's work for use in his speech.

1108

The names furnished subject by informant as

(people working in his section were CESTMIRA JESINA, a

(S)

Czechoslovak exile and STEPHAN RAPAWY, a Ukranian exile. "Kil! e

Subject failed to write these names down and did not appear

too concerned over them.

WFo will take no

further action concerning these individuals unless subject

makes further inquiry concerning them.

-2 -

SECRET

DocId: 32177778

Page 3

---

## Page 4

WO 105-54592 5)

SECRETI

Concerning the telephone directory requested by

subject, Wro will request clearance for passage of this directory_s,

oy separate communication.

The next meeting between subject and informant is

Pennsylvania and Alabama Ayenues, S. Ed

evaluation

it reveals investigative interest in a foreign diplo-

matic official.

13974

- 3

SECRED

DocId: 32177778

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

UNITE• STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUS-*CE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON && D.C.

20535

March 10, 1964

MILOSLAV CHROBOK

INTERNAL SECURITY - CZ

A confidential informant furnished the following

information March 9, 1964, which he obtained as the result

of a recent meeting with liloslav Chrobok, Thira Secretary,

Embassy of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic ou

At the beginning of the meeting ,*Chrobokkand the d

source discussed the Jack Ruby trial in Dallas, Texas.

Chrobok stated that he is convinced that Jack Ruby and

Tee Harvey Oswald were working together.

He also said

that he believes that Ruby killed Oswald for undisclosed

-individuals and that both ruby and oswald were part of a

conspiracy to assassinate John F. Kennedy. *Chrobokxnext

discussed the forthcoming political campaign in the United

States and stated that he believed that Henry Cabot Lodge

stood an excellent chance of winning the New Hampshire Vive- (unri

primary election. He said that he believed Lodge to be

extremely strong and that he felt that he would make an

excellent Presidential candidate.

He asked the source

who he believed the Republican candidate would be.

The

source replied that he believed the former Vice President,

Richard M. Nixon would eventually get the Republican

nomination. *Chrobok*replied that he did not believe this

would happen because of his loss in his attempt to be

elected Governor of California.(u)

The subject next discussed with the source a

paper prepared by the source conceming the stovak Uprising

of 1944J Chrobols said that it was a well prepared paper

and well documented. He said that he had read it, but

desired to look it over some more and asked if he

might

keep it another week or so.

The source replied that he

could and Chrobok said that he would return it at their

next meeting. The source then asked Chrobok what he was

• ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

EXOL: 1 NGIENE SHOWN

OTHEWISE I

SECRET

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUO/CL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (J6)

DEK) S57L98

3/4/94

Classiner:

peres

Declassiry on:

VAL

DocId:32177778

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

* MILOSLAV CHROBOK

doing at that time and he replied that he was living with

is parents near Ostrava, Czechoslovakia. SHe stated thai

is father was working in the coal mines there, but dir

not state whether or not his father was actually a miner

or handling administrative type work.

Chrobok continued

stating that he was thirteen years old at this time and

that he worked as a shepherd attending cattle herds

during this period. He said that he was not exposed to

any of the fighting which went on in Czechoslovakia during

World War II.

newspaper

Chrobok gave the source a copy of the Czech

"Kulturnt Ivorba," which according

to the source

means cultural creation.

This paper was dated January 1,

1964.

The subject stated that it contained an article which

he felt the source should be interested in. This article

was entitled "Problems with Figures" and was written by an

individual named Milan Plachky.

This article was extremely

critical of the statistics presented by the Czechoslovak

Government concerning the amount of money expended for

educational purposes in Czechoslovakia as compared to that

spent in the United States®

It stated that these figures

were false and misleading and that in proportion to the

The source stated that this was another instance whereby

the Czechoslovak people, particularly those of Slovak

origin,

are

expressing their criticism of the current

regime. 0(u)

Chrobok suggested to the source that he might

prepare an article for publication in Czechoslovakia. They

briefly discussed this matter and the source stated that he

would consider preparing an articlelon the Twentieth

Anniversary of the Slovak Uprising of 1944 and how this

uprisint afloctod Crechoslovakia's history.

At the conclusion of the meeting, Chrobol

possible

mation Agency., The source replied that he did not know

2

SECRET

DocId: 32177778 Page 6

---

