# docid-32332013

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90100-10231

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

52-72398-195

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 08/12/1959

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

STUART SUTOR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF ATF

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

DocId: 32332013

Page 1

---

## Page 2

AIRTEL

NY 52-5814

ARNOLD RAYBER, Gun Dealer, 202 Flatbush Ave.,

Brooklyn, NY, an A & TT informant, contacted special

Investigator KALES on 9/26/58, and advised that a

representative of Cuban revolutionary leader JOSE ALEMAN,

requested RAYBER to meet with member of Mafia named JOSEPH

MEROLA.

Shortly thereafter, RAYBER met with MEROLA and two

Cubans

in an apartment in vicinity of 138 St. and Riverside

Dr., NYC.

MEROLA stated he was associated with JOSE ALEMAN,

and

that

he was interested in purchase of large quantity of

MEROLA advised RAYBER

that he has been respinsible for supplying over a million

dollars in arms to revolutionists, and that he and his

associates anticipated fat gambling concessions in Cuba from

new government.

MEROLA said that two men in Miami, who

were peddling B.A.R. 's are BOB GREENE, FR 3-7415; and JIM

RASKIN HI 4-8873. MEROLA mentioned to RAYBER that he was

one

of financiers of the vessel HARPOON, which had been seized

in Miami with arms and men aboard, and was also one of the

men responsible for the LILLY BELLE, a vessel allegedly

engaged in illicit arms transfers between Miami and Cuba.

A & TT temporarily loaned to RAYBER a number of

seized weapons, so that he could have a representative stock

to display to MEROLA.

on 10/6/58, RAYBER advised KALES that MEROLA had

been in Canada. and Miami, the previous week, supposedly in

connection with the procurement of arms.

MEROLA wanted

RAYBER to accumulate a large pile of American "stuff" for

him, and would temporarily postpone any purchase of arms,

since Miami was then filled with FBI Agents looking for

stolen arms.

-2-

DocId: 32332013

Page 2

---

## Page 3

AIRTEL

NY 552-5814

On 8/10/59, RAYBER was interviewed by Agents of

NYO.

He confirmed information furnished by A & TT, and

identified photograph of MEROLA.

RAYBER could not identify

photograph of SAM MANNARINO.

RAYBER stated that about one

month after MEROLA contacted him he was contacted by CHARLES

COLLE, Gun Dealer, MILLVILLE ORDINANCE CO.,

Union, N.J., who

said he knew where a lot of M-1 rifles could be bought

COLLE tOld RAYBER that it was hot stuff, part of the 100t

lifted from the armory in Ohio, and that the one who had the

guns wanted to get rid of them.

coLLE said that it would be

necessary to meet the seller in Washington, D.C., and from

there go to where the guns were stored.

RAYBER had no

information as to where the guns in question were stored.

RAYBER said he was sure he had furnished this information to

A & TT, but nothing further materialized.

Regarding the vessel, HARPOON, RAYBER said that he

learned from a source in Miami, whose identity he refused to

disclose,

that information leaked from Customs Service in

Miami that the HARPOON and IILY BELLE were scheduled to be

seized whenever they sailed for Cuba.

Following instructions

received from his Miami source, this information was made

available to the July 26 Movement,

who made it available to

MEROLA.

MEROLA agreed to pay $3,000.00 for it. The money

was never paid. RAYBER stated that as a result of this leak,

he would not trust the Customs Service in Miami.

Newark is requested to interview COLLE concerning

any information of instant case, and in such a manner as to

fully protect the identity of RAYBER, a current informant of

A & TT, NYC, and one who has requested his identity be

concealed.

-3-

DocId: 32332013

Page 3

---

