# docid_32302518

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10282-10030

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2914-134

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: FORSYTH, THOMAS G. III

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/09/1961

PAGES:

20

SUBJECTS :

GM, SMO, BKG, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 45852 DocId: 32302518

Page 1

36

---

## Page 2

PG

: 92-236

PG 92-228

ADMINISTRATIVE

On April 5, 1961, SA HAROLD L. WILLIAMS, Pittsburgh Sound-Trained

Agent,

and SA THOMAS G.

FORSYTH, III surveilled the cottage of

GABRIEL MANNARINO located on Old Leechburg Road, R. D. No. 3,

Leechburg, Pa., with a view toward ascertaining the feasibility

of a technical installation.

All construction appeared to be

complete and nobody was observed in the neighborhood.

Because of

the rural location, terrain, limited service facilities and

proximity of neighbors friendly toward MANNARINO, it was apparent

that such an installation would have numerous technical, mechanical

and security problems

and would be very difficult.

Special Agents

handling these matters will continue to be alert for possibllities

for technical coverage for this and other logical locations.

The spot fisur on GABRIEL MANNARINO's Surfside, Florida, house

on March 14, 1961, was conducted by SA C. GRAHAM HURST.

The spot fisurs at MANNARINO's Surfside, Floridà, house on

April 7, 1961, and April 19, 1961, were conducted by SA ROBERT K.

LEWIS.

The spot fisurs at GABRIEL MANNARINO's cottage near Leechburg, Pa.,

on March 23, 1961, and April 19, 1961, were conducted by SA FORSYTH.

The pretext interview on May 2, 1961, with LEE KUHNS, caretaker

at MANNARINO's cottage, was conducted by SAs PAUL D. O'BRIEN and

ROBERT EMMET GRANT, who pretended to be advertising company

photographers.

The same SAs observed GABRIEL MANNARINO at the

Bonfire Restaurant, Leechburg, on May 2, 1961.

INFORMANTS

PG symbol numbers will continue to be the same, where applicable,

as were used in preceding reports.

PG I-1 1s PG 612-C

PG T-2 18 PG 615-C

PG T-3 1s PCI

Leechburg, Pa.,

who furnished

information to SA FORSYTH.

OTHER 4

- B-

COVER PAGE

387-1009

HH 45852 DocId:32302518 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-236

PG. 92-228

(Informants continued)

PG I64 18 CRESSON O. DAVIS, Chief, Intelligence Division,

IRS, Pittsburgh.

ALCOA, New Kensington,

PG. I-10 is PG 581-C

PG T-11 1S PG 557-C

PG T-12 1S PCI JIM KELLY, aka., New kensington, who furnished

information to SA FORSYTH.

PG T-13 1s

PG 621-C

PG T-14 1S PCI

who furnished information to

SA ROBERT EMMET GRANT.

PG T-15 IS PCI ANTHONY JOHN WISE, JR., Pittsburgh, who

furnished information to SA FORSYTH and SAW. B. ANDERSON, JR.

PG T-16 is PCI JOSEPH GEORGE, New Kensington, who furnished

Information to SA PAUL D. O'BRIEN.

PG 1°17 Is T. P. DERDOCK, Security Office, Westinghouse Electric

corporation Plant, East Pittsburgh, Pa. (Confidential Source)

who furnished information to SA FORSYTH.

MMT-2 1s former MM 660-C

MMT-3 is MM 509-C

OTHER

4

•C* •

COVER PAGE

NW 45852 DocId:32302518 Page 3

---

