JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

12/7/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10292-10096
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 92-6054-1052
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: SAC,MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE: |
DATE: 04/22/1965
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
LCN, MATTHEWS, CAREY, CRIME COMMISSION,
GAMBLING VIOLATION
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 07/06/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId:32307393 Page 1


FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

“4
Lt} Fel
( Date: 4/22/65

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via AIRTEL REGISTERED MAIL
(Priority)
Seng engeaga age geeg ug agaeee cog igang nigga gaagen genes igsnapcegeigas User Higpe tigiasen son aatlganceneeeej aguas -eeeeeE tnGSeeEneEDT gligststeseetsteuiipases
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)
FROM: SAC, MIAMI ..(92-853}Sub 2)
SUBJECT: LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY
JUNE

Re Jacksonville letter to Miami, and Tampa
airtel to Miami, dated 4/7/65.

CAREY MATTHEWS is a Fla. state representative
and Miami attorney with offices in the Ainsley Building,
Miami, Florida. He presently represents ANTHONY RUSSO
(MM file 92-729), and recently represented VINCENT JAMES
PALMISANO, aka (MM file 92-503).

Mr. MATTHEWS is presently cooperating with the
Miami Office regarding criminal intelligence matters, but

to discuss matters mentioned in Newark airtel to the
Bureau, 4/65.

Mr. MATTHEWS was recently appointed head of a
crime commission, the purpose of which is to subject
legislation for the State of Fla. to cope with gambling
violations within the state.

(32bureau (RM)
1-Tampa (92-218) (RM)
(92-635 Sub 1) (RM)REC 20

1-Jacksonville oO

2-Miami (1-137-3299) : yf.

PEF:rif L! 73 YOS A
(#) ae

his reliability has not been established adequately enough ry

DocId:32307393 Page 2
