# docid-32205246

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2016

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

• RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

NARA

176-10011-10132

NSF

11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: WH

FROM: KAYSEN, CARL

TO: RECORD

TITLE:

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

DATE: 09/27/1962

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: UPON AGENCY REVIEW

COMMENTS:

NSF:M&M:SPECIAL GROUP(AUGMENTED):9/62:BOX 319:PENDING NLK-90-49

v9.1

HH 49061

DocId: 32205246

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SANITTED ME. 11. 638/13

THE WHITE HOUSE.

WASHINGTON

September 27, 1962

SECRET - SENSITIVE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

1. The Attorney General and Mr. McCone met with the President

twice on matters related to Cuba: Tuesday at 4 PM and Wednesday

at 6:15. On Tuesday Mr.. McCone presented the Donovan situa-

tion and indicated that it was his recommendation that we go ahead

with emphasis on medicines and that we give Donovan whatever

support he needed!

After some discussion the President agreed

and suggested that Mr.. McCone discuss the matter with General

Eis en hower preparatory to briefing the appropriate Members of

Congress.

2.. The President asked Mr.. McCone about the situation of the sugar

taken from the Streathan Hill in San Juan. The President asked Mr.

Mc Cone to find some way to back off from this situation.

3. In the second meeting Mr.. McCone reported General Eisenhower's

views which were broadly favorable. The President suggested that

we do the best we can to avoid a clear turn-down now if we didn't

get immediate favorable response.

4. On the sugar situation, Mr. McCone agreed that he would dis-

cuss with the Secretary of State in New York today whether it would

be better to give private warnings to the Soviets at an appropriate

time or to attempt to undo what has been done in some other way.

Mr. McCone pointed out the difficulties of the latest course and

indicated that his own preference would be the former!

5.. The Attorney General and Mr. McCone had a private conversa-

tion with the President for ten or fifteen minutes.

"CK

SECRET SENSITive

NN 49061

Doc10: 32205246 Page 2

---

