# docid-32307303

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10292-10006

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-22

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

MELLOTT, FRANK L.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 08/07/1958

'PAGES:

23

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, COLUCCI, PHILLIP, MED/PERS HIST, SUR, RES,

WHEREABOUTS, SUBPOENA, REL, BKG, EMP, BUSS, TRA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32307303

Page 1•

425

---

## Page 2

Report Form

FD-263 (5-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

Offico of Origin

CHICAGO

"CHANGED"

SAMUEL

M.

GIANCANA,

Russell Paige, Anthony

ony ce Bendo

Dato

8/7/58

Report made by

FRAVK I. MELLOTT

CHARACTER OF CASE

6/16,20,25,26;7/2.7.9,11

Lavestigative Period 14-18, 23,25,29

31;8/1,4,5/58

Ipod B1

hjz/ gi

ANTI - RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

MARY and PHILLIP COLUCCI, River Forest, Illinois admit

assoclating with subject's late wife and oldest

daughter

but deny associating with subject; both deny knowledge

that car owned by subject's eldest daughter was

registered to their address until car involved in

accident.

COLUCCI claims not related to COLUCCI brothers

who operate handbooks and exercise political influence

on Chicago's west side.

Subject reportedly seen in

company of FRANK SINATRA in Las Vegas. Examination

4

of legal records gives no indication subjoct has

financial interest in Villa Venice, large restaurant

and lounge northwest of Chicago.

Subject, using name

"RUSSELL PAIGE", operated on in May, 1950, for rectal

disorder and in April, 1956, for colon disorder, but

no indication of malignancy.

subject referred

surgeon by.r. CArL CHAMPAGNE, brother of ANTHONY V.

CHAMPAGNE, notorious hoodlum attorney. Efforts by

Leputy United States Marshals during May-July, 1958,

to locate subject to serve subpoena for subject's

appearance before McClellan Committee unsuccessful

to date.

Car driven by subject registered to ANTHONY A

DE BENDO, Berwyn, Illinois, but efforts to establish

existence of this paraph unsuocossful.

ARMEN AND LAUSEROL

Approve

Copies made:

2-Bureau

92-3171-22

3-Chicago (92-349)

MCT - 20

REG 36

5 AUG 1:: 1958

COPIES DESCROYED

925 MAY 21 1972

tx-124

Y/2084

STAT, SECT.

SIPSANTS/BHY

serty of FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its

contents are lo be distributed outsido the agency to which loco

I U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE, 1985 0 844750

DocId: 32307303

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG: 92-349

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following criminal informants are currently

in a position to furnish information relative to the subject:

CG 6132-C

CG 5951-C

CG 6215-C

PeI JOYCE LANE

PCI HENDERSON L. WILLIAMS

PCI ROBERT ZIEMAN

PCI IRENE TOEROSS

PCI PAUL TIMRECH

The above criminal informants andkpotential criminal

informants are being contacted on a regular basis with the

objective of securing information of value relative to the

Top Hoodlum Program.

Attention is being directed to

securing additional

informant coverage through the above

informants as well as through file reviews to ascertain

whether informants furnishing information in the past will

be of assistance under this program to furnish accurate

information concerning GIANCANA's movements, associates,

and activities. In addition, background and current

data regarding those persons

contacting the subject

is being obtained, with a view of interviewing them for

the purpose of developing them

as PCIS.

INFORMANTS

4

T-s is BELDON KATLEMAN, principal owner, El Rancho

Vegas Hotel, Las Vegas, Neveda,

a PCI of the Salt Lake City

Office, who was contacted by SA BRYON C. WHEELER on June 30, 1958.

I-2 IS LEO FEARY, former Special Agent, FBI, now

in charge of security at Marshall Field & Company, Chicago,

who furnished information regarding the subject to SA HAROLD

D. SELL on July 14, 1958.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 20 .

SUS 1980e

DocId: 32307303 Page 3

---

