JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/5/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10285-10259
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 105-231511-35
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, NK
TO: ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI
f
TITLE:
DATE: — 03/09/1973
PAGES: 12
SUBJECTS :
MR, ASSOC, MEMBERS, REVOLUTIONARY PARTY OF THE
PEOPLE, MEETING
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 06/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF NSA

INC LHM, ADMIN PAGE

v9.
Docld:32304247 Page 1


F SOP, DAL FORM WO. 10 ay ~
i “MAY 1082 EDITION, basses

MS
1 GSA FeMR (41 CFR) 101-118 oeeaee’
| pow UNITED STATES GU. ERNMENT ane i
Memorandum |
To // ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (105-231511) paTE: 3/9/73

“a
(ATTN: DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION)
26@ Lam LAO
10a Lhe STATE, CA, SS, a4,
: $ jAR i?) iy, MEV
SUBJECT: PARTIDO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO Asa (THAR?) | abary, NELG ,

Civeeeg By eee
(REVOLUTIONARY PARTY OF THE PEOPLE) (PRP) iil Wp ZC SR cad
IS-CUBA dusrems

!

}

ft

i

; : A ote eee eee 7

Cia HAS No OBIECTEAN To sar. (eg ae din |
RECLASSIFICATION AND/OR, i 3 ie ;
an 1» 2/7/73. '

i

[

FRO! OF ax » NEWARK (105~29165) (P)

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIONRe Miami letter aa o>

by, Widay Ty - ,
THIS MENT. YA
IN bec K wy ee for the Bureau are the original and eight
\ Onl popies of an LHM dated and captioned as above and for receiving
Bre? aged two copies of same LHM.

left to the discretion of the Bureau.

. }

This LHM is classified "Confidential" based on

F
aw Dissemination of -LHM to interested legats is being

the sensitive positions of the sources set forth in this !
f| , communication, the disclosure of which could reasonably be

. expected to cause damage to the national security.

, i :

\ H Identity of sources contacted are as follows: (/ ‘
Jae aii Cf
: i NK T-1 is NK 5007-—PsI, i \) 2
card sili geome
gay feuia NK T-2 is NK 3350-PsI. : DATE -/3- y hk ’
“Of! Y. LD,
a REC-40 ALE ERE LYRE

NK T-3 is NK 5006-PSI, (7)

re ; LO af '
\ — 3 - 4 i
; N NK T-4 is NK Migs REC VYOS— Q3/5//- as.
& y g Declassification stamp is being left off the last i
vos three copies of encl, sed LHM in the event the Bureaw decir esas) ,
L yo to disseminate abrgaas aq
Ss rey 73 : ‘
ERI \3-Bureau (Enc,8) ~~ : uierateahe y :
Shy 2-Chicago (105-34441) (Enc.2) a | i
42 2-Cleveland (Ene.2) ~" PCO Er os penne 5
SES columbia (105-460) (Info) (gne.1) , i
&¥* l-mdianapolis (Info) (Enc.1) wus ne € atyhe i
ah) 2-Miami (105-20913) (pnc.2) by wotie stie ay 7 :
¥y jx 2-New York (105-89172) (Enc.2)~'/0 EF Tio ('} ection :
g 6 2-San Juan. (105-14608) (Enc.2)~49 Stat MALL: 7

1-Washington Field (Info) (Enc.1)'.°’.
2-Newark : vy

NH on
(18) Bay U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Ben

sie-1e8

Docld:32304247 Page 2


pos

-¢ a
na CONF IDET TAL nt
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Gece ee Newark, New Jersey
in Reply, Plea rto
i March 9, 19723

care HITT

PARTIDO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO

On February 27, 1973, NK T-1, who has provided
reliable information in the past, furnished the following
information: :

a

ee reaeeaetenpesateesrsges

4 Source advised a meeting of the. Political Commission
of the Partido Revolucionario Del Pueblo, Revolutionary Party

of the People (PRP) was held on Saturday, February 24, 1973,

at 11:00 a.m. in the apartment of Dr. Guillermo R<“Salazar, 2B 80
77th Street, New York, New York, telephones 628-6208 and 988-4400.
Source advised that Salazar made his apartment available and

did not attend the meeting. ara

ee Se

Source advised that Salazar is a member of the
National Directory of the PRP, however, is not a member of
the Political Commission of the PRP.

ee ee mee

|
{

Source advised the mee ihg was attended by~Seven
members of the Political Commi ssigh and that Manole~“Ray, Huber
_? Matos, Enrique/Nunez, and Robert6.Soto were not in attendance.
Source advised that the PRP radio station had a projected 4
location in Costa Rica and was scheduled to being broadcasting }
in May, 1973. Source advised that the radio equipment needed
was being purchased in West Germany. A'vJ,

x.

The following Political Commission members were
present at this meeting:

Enrique’Barroso

NOMLVZINVDUO Loglans JO waar t

Orlando Castro esfesssseeeeeeecae fl
aaa aiaas WWERSOF SUBJECT ORGANIZATION iia
Angel<Larramendi 4 j ae Ohi)

Mario-Kiyadulla eerenened

| Israel -Romero \
Antonio Santiago

comely a oN [ TBE

CLASEFED BY —.... AVI
EXEMPT FROM G!
GCHEDULE OF EXECUT
EXEMPTION CAT:
AUTOM‘ TICALY

JOS" RF

| Docld: 32304247 Page 3


Cee nua

PARTIDO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO

: ni

Source advised that Cosme.Garcia of 814 44th
Street, Brooklyn, New York, telephone number 438-4354, has been
given the assignment of contacting individuals who were jailed
under Castro and subsequently escaped or were released and how
reside in the United States.

NK T-3, who has provided reliable information in
the past, advised on February 27, 1973, as follows:
‘ Source advised that on the evening of Saturday,
February 24, 1973, he attended a meeting of the PRP upstairs
over the Broadway Restaurant on Park Avenue, in Union City,
New Jersey, as an invited guest of Israel Romero. Source
advised that the following listed individuals were present ‘
at the meeting and were characterized as leaders of the PRP:

Enrique Barroso
Orlando Castro
Emilio Guede
Angel Larramendi
Manuel Ray
Israel Romero
Tony Santiago
Roberto Soto
Manuel Urrutia ea iB
Arturo’ Villar pis! lee f
Jose, jomez (a Cuban “of Chinese appearance) i
Mario Rivadulla

)

MEMBER OF SUE}

ORGANIZATION

Source advised that he believes the PRP really
wants re-establishment of relations with Cuba, in opposition
to their publically expressed position of opposition to
recognition.

Source advised that he feels the strategy of the
PRP is to be available as a viable political force to return
to Cuba in the event relations are re-established.

In connection with individuals not present at the a

meeting but known to be members of the leadership of the PRP ‘ i
source era as follows: i MEMBER OF SUB) }ECT ORGANIZATION i
Ly ea i i

ee Napoleon seuc is believed to be of Arabic nationality | :

and was probably a member of the Arabic Community located in 2 ?
Havana prior to Castro's rise to power...He advised that Suec fe -
would probably have an associate of Levy’ ‘Farah, who currently, ui ‘
holds a high position in the Cuban government under Castro

in the area of Economic Development. Farah was a member of the

— af TAL j

ire}

Docld:32304247 Page 4
