JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/6/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10297-10140
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 105-202233-2
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/12/1970

PAGES: 8

c SUBJECTS :
FS, ANTI-CASTRO ACT, ALPHA 66
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: " Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 07/16/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: — INC NOTE

vol
DocId:32309013 Page 1


. Peet er teereepeeteny

ams 105-47725 6 fee nia a
PAGE. SEVEN > S
SIXTIETH STREET, MIAMI, WHO REPORTEDLY HAS ACCESS TO
FE STORED sipRer

A LARGE QUANTITY OF ARMS, SOME OF WHICH WE

IN HIS HOME. Kae)

ADMINISTRATIVE-- te

RETEL CALL TO MR» RAY WANNALL, SOG, JUNE TWELVE.
ferast SOURCE fa ESPINOSA HERNANDEZ, FORMER
KEY SOURCE BASH CUBAN, WHO FURNISHED THE INFORMATION
VOLUNTARILY, AUD WHO OBTAINED IT DIRECTLY FRON wf
MARQUEZ ‘AND NAZARIO. HE SAID NO EXACT DATE FOR THESE
OPERATIONS HAS BEEN MENTIONED, BY EITHER, BUT THAT
HE ESTIMATES THE TIME AS BETWEEN ONE AND TWO WEEKS. {
ESPINOSA HAS BEEN ENGAGED BY MARQUEZ TO FURNISH INSTRUCTION |
IN THE OPERATION OF THE FIFTY SEVEN MM RIFLE.
SECOND SOURCE IS MM NINE SEVEN FOUR DASH Se od Ym)
THIS INFORMATION HAS ALSO BEEN FURNISHED TO
Us S. CUSTOMS, MIAMI. THEY BELIEVE THEY MAY HAVE |

LOCATED THE FORMULA TWENTY THREE BOAT OF MARQUEZ, AND 7

ARE COVERING MOVEMENTS OF THIS BOAT. ;
sucoP,

END

_STJ FBI WASH DC ae f \

ORIG: MR. SrLOACH FOR DIRECTOR
ORG: Ma.

SEK ET

DocId:32309013 Page 2
