# docid-32565018

## Page 1

SAC, Philadelphia (02-441 Sub A)

REC- 26

Director, THI (92-2339) - 221

RUSSELL BUPALING

AR

JUNE

6/5/64

1

- J. D. Donohue

1

- M. F. ROW

1 - Electronics Section,

Laboratory

1 - K. A. Lofgren

MAILED 5

JUN

5 1964

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel

Trotter.

Tele. Room

Holment

Gand

Reurairtol 6/2/64.

Provided full security assured,

to install a nisur in the subjectig business ottice, 140

North Main Street, Pittston, Pennsylvania.: Promptly advise

Bureau when symbol number assigned and source activated.

This authority is for a 30-day period fron date souzce

activated.

"In the event youg

reconnend source be continued

beyond

the authorized period,

subnit your recommendations

one veck prior to the expiration ot shes cuchority.

Furnish the Bureau

a woerly airter surnary or

signizicant 2p1orDation obtained ison this deurce.

COMM-FB!

NOTE:

The subject is one of the most important underworld

figures in the nation.

He attended the 1957 Apalachin hoodlum

meeting and has a long history of racket activity in the New York-

Pennsylvania area.

He is an important underworld figure in the

racket-ridden garment industry in New York-Pennsylvania, and is

in close contact with underworld leaders in that industry in

New York City. There is a definite need to develop additional

information regarding subject's activity. PHO reports having a

unique opportunity to install misur coverage in the subject's

business office at the present time since he has requested telephone

service at his business office.

This service will be installed on

6/9/64. A misur anstallation can be made by an SA of the PHO

acting under pretext of being a telephone installation man.

The cost of the leased line to monitor this source in the

PHO will be from $350 to $400 per month. This method of

monitoring the source at the PHO would be considerably less

expensive than the operation of a separaterplant in the vicinity

of Pittston, Pennsylvania, which would also require tralsferring

an employee to the resident agency to monitor:

In view of the

importance of Bufalino in the underworld, and since there is an

excellent opportunity to establish misur

coverage with security,

-it is recommended the request

of the PHO be approved.

- JEK: rap

(B)

ROUTE ON ANVONORA

HEIN JA 196

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32565018

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 6/2/64

(Type in plain text or code)

REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2839)

SAC, PHILADELPHIA (92-441 SUB A)

RUSSELL BUFALINO

AR

JUNE..

Enclosed herewith is an FD 142 requesting authoriza-

tion for installation of

microphone coverage at the new business

address of captioned subject, 119 North Main Street, Pittston,

Philadelphia, prior to the current time, has been

at a disadvantage because of the labor troubles in

telephone company in the area surrounding the Scranton and

Wilkes-Barre Resident Agencies.

All problems have been

alleviated and complete cooperation is now available which

will enable Philadelphia to make the requested installation

with complete security.

The installation will be made by

a sound agent under pretext of a telephone installation man.

and the service is being delayed by the telephone compány

until Tuesday, 6/9/64.

Time is of the essence.

Philadelphia is sending to the Laboratory, Attention

ROBERT A. MILLER, Electronics Section, a 500 series'type phone

that will be installed at this, location.

It is requested

that this phone be altered by placing a mate or something

similar in the network of the phone.

This method will

afford best available security for this type of installation.

Bureau (92-2839) (Encl. 1)R4M)

92-2839-221

- Philadelphia (92-441 Sub

JRP : EMR

(4): 12N0108088

TSUN 531

Et • Wick

Approved:

Sent

Rêt

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32565018

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TO

I SUBJECT:

FD-142 (Rev. 2-6-64)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. KEG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (Bufile 92-2839

) DATE:

JUNE

6/2/64

: SAC, PHILADELPHIA (92-441. SUB A)

RECOMMENDATION FOR INSTALLATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title

_RUSSELL. BUEALINO

Character of Case AR

Field Office

Philadelphia

Symbol Number

Type of Surveillance (HechxxxXXX

Microphone)

1.

Name and address of person or organization on whom surveillance is to be

placed:

RUSSELI A. BUFALINO, 304 East Dorrance Street, Kingston, Pa.

2. A. Address where installation is to be made (set forth èxact room

number or area to be covered): 119 North Main Street, Pittston,

2nd floor, A.B.S: Contracting Company

parocation where monitoring plant is to be maintained:

Central Monitoring Plant at Philadelphia, Pa.

3. Previous and other cuirent installations on the same subject:

None.

Bureau has previously authorized coverage at

former

address of subject

which could not be effected due to security

in the neighborhood. Bureau by letter 10/24/63, withdrew the

authority in this regard.

REC- 26

4. Cost and manpower involved:

No additional manpower is anticipated in monitoring

92 - 2839221

Centra

Plant.

Cost of running leased line from Pittston, Pa., to

Philadelphia would be $3.00 per air mile and estimated mileage

0f 120 miles. Estimated cost per leased line - $35P

per month.

1 JUN

- 1964

5. Adequacy of security:

Complete security or installation will not be made.

1 - Bureau (92-2839) (RM)

1 - Philadelphia (92-441 Sub A)

DOP

DocId: 32565018 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-441 Sub A

1l. Possibilities of obtaining desired information by other means

(Explain in detail):

Confidential informants can furnish movements of subject.

Philadelphia, however, has been unable to develop a confidential

source in the Wilkes-Barre - Scranton area that can furnish

Information as to the current activities of LaCosa Nostra

members in the vicinity.

12.

Risks of detection involved:

Philadelphia contemplates the utilizing of an altered 500 series

telephone.

Inspection of this type installation by telephone

personnel does

not reveal presence of a microphone.

• 13. Probable length of technical surveillance:

90 day trial period recommended.

14. Request made for technical surveillance by any outside ageney

(name specific official, title and agency) :

I None.

- 3 -

DocId: 32565018 Page 4

---

