zt NO :
Secs ean
~~ 3 FD.86 (Rev. 10-29-69) '
~ ee - 1
: 1
raves |
“Ne, FBI
- , Date: 3/5/65 ;
i]
T it the % |
ransmit the “ollowing in Type tn pala text oF Gade} |
Via AIRTEL H
Bitisnuany/” DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)
FROM: SAC, NEW YORK (92-2300)
af suasect:C LA COSA NOSTRA
AR - CONSPIRACY

Re Newark airtels to Bu, 2/25, 26 and 3/2/65.

Set forth are additional possible identifications
of subjects mentioned in referenced airtels:

"LARRY" (LNU) - possibly identical with LAWRENCE
JOSEPH PISTONE, DOB 7/12/37,
_ FBI# 417216, a member of the
\CARLO GAMBINO "family" in NYC

JOE MIRANDA Info previously set forth in
NY airtel 3/2/65.

Lt. JACOBSON Lt. BERNARD JACOBS
Cc. O., 102nd Squad
NYCPD

Lt. JACOBS is:currently in charge of the Chelsea
Warehouse fur theft, 8/17/64, and has worked closely with
Bu agents in this case. Lt. JACOBS has also advised Bu
agents that he spoke to THOMAS GAMBADORO, a suspect in the

{ 3 ) Bureau {eert20s
9-2 - Newark 92-1203
(1- 87-1278 do )
3 - New York -2300 aes
(2: Sort 3385 cord
1- 92-3582)

Pocld:32576613 Pag


NY 92-2300

fur theft, and requested his assistance in the return of the '
. furs.

TODDO MARINO, true name SALVATORE GAETANO MAIORANO,
FBI# 1644357, who was mentioned by Lt. JACOBS, is an
influential member of the GENOVESE "family" who hangs out
‘at 20th Street and 5th Avenue, Brooklyn, NY.

RUDY (LNU) and DOM PRADO are not sufficiently
identified at this time.

Also mentioned in referenced airtels is the name
JACK LEVINIA (PH), who is apparently a partner with GAETANO
"“GORKY" VASTOLA in an illegal alcohol operation. LEVINIA
is probably identiéal with JOHN LIVIGNO, NYCPD B# 164755,
age 61, ATTD# 4088, LIVIGNO is also known as JACK LIVIGNY and
JACK LEVINE. LIVIGNO's’ last known residence was 8701 Shore
Road, Brooklyn, NY. ‘ é

LIVIGNO was described in 1960 by ATTD agents as the
top moonshiner on the East Coast. He was arrested in 1954 for
running a 1000 gallon still on the Brooklyn waterfront and
pleadéd guilty on 2/19/60, EDNY, Brooklyn, and sentenced
along with his brother, MORRIS LIVIGNO, to 2 years imprison-
‘ment, Another moonshiner sentenced with LIVIGNO was
GIOACHINO "LAUNDRY JACK". MENTESANO.

,

It should be noted that NY 3586-C-TE has. associated
with LIVIGNO in the past and will be discreetly contacted
concerning the location LIVIGNO's present operation.

Docld:32576613 Page 2
