# docid-32325875

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90038-10064

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-4930-56

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/23/1969

5

JAMES HENRY DOLAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32325875

Page 1

34

---

## Page 2

FD-263 < Rev. 12-19-67)

FEDERAL

CUREAU OF INVES

'IGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

JAMES HENRY DOLAN

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DATE

12/23/69

REPORT MADE BY

HAROLD R. LIVERETT

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

11/24 - 12/16/69

AR

TYPED BY

REFERENCE:

Report of SA HAROLD R. LIVERETT dated 10/30/69 at

Dallas.

Chicago airtel to Seattle dated 11/14/69.

=P»

LEADS

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, Will maintain contact with

PCI LESLIE ANN FRANKLIN re activities of subject.

LAS VEGAS

AT RENO, NEVADA. Will report results of investigation

previously requested.

CONVIC AUTO.

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

EX NONE

ACQUIT-

RECOVERIES

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

YES KINO

APPROVED

COPIESMÁ

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-4930-56

Bureau (92-4930)

USA, Fort Worth

2- Chicago (92-865)

2= Las Vegas

2- Seattle

2= Dallas (92-292)

REG- 58

N2 DEG 29 1969

EX-I1L

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

7358

JAN8

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

1'C Criminal Me

so and Ra

Notations

1970

COVER PAGE

MORO

DocId:32325875

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Did 92-292

DALLAS

AT DALLAS

Will maintain contact with

MRS. JAMES DOLIN,

she may receive about subject.

ST Bruid sl Drive, re any information

ADMINISTRATIVE

T=1 IS PCT LESLIE ANY FRANKLIN, WhO iS

contacted by Agents

In Chicago Division.

Cover Dage

DocId: 32325875

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FD-204 (Rév: 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

1- USA, Fort Worth

HAROLD R. LIVERETT

12/23/69

92-292

JAMES HENRY DOLAN

Office: Dallas, Texas

Bureau File #: 92-4930

Character:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

The investigation to establish subject as the

perpetrator of the ShEllA wo RAl jewel and duruject

Lake Geneva, Wisconsin, 2/21/69, continuing.

believed possibly to have been involved in

Seattle

armed robbery of JOE GASPARAVICH. Subject's ex-wife

had long distance telephone call

from subject on

Thanks»

giving, but he did not indicate his whereabouts.

-po

DETAILS:

On November 14, 1969,

T-l advised that her

husband had just returned

from

seattle, washington, on

a business trip and had learned that JOE GASPARAVICH

and his family had been robbed at his home approximately

and nee ramily"

one year ago by two armed men wearing masks.

approx natoly

men broke into GASPARAVICH's home, forced their daughter

to remove her clothes, tied her up, then waited for

GASPARAVICH and his wife to return.

T-1 recalled subject DOLAN discussing such

a robbery in her presence

indicating how he had undressed

the girl and ate a bowl of ice cream while he waited for

the family to return.

Informant earlier advised that

she had seen DOLAN in possession of masks and guns.

This document contans neither recommendations

nor conclusions.

of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside. your agency.

DocId:32325875

Page 4

---

