JFK Assassination System Date: 6/4/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10278-10434

RECORD SERIES: HQ 4

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 97-4474-116

4 Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC,MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

05/21/1964
10

MIRR, MEMBERS, ASSOC, PLAN, MIL ACT, LAS VILLAS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS 4
CURRENT STATUS Redact

DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/29/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: = INC LHM

vol 41
DocId:32301599 Page 1


=~ SECRET es

we /

FBI

“Date: 5/21/64

AHA LAS NG
(Type in plain text or code) DEC 4
REGISTERED MAIL gy

(Priority)

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

ct too Ba)

Ge eda Hhiprall Cr fe
IS'- CUBA; NM

0"
f ! Tinlad bond
: , oectassiries ay GOS. oleh
OO: Miami oN lat-9 G/

Re Miami airtel to Bureau, 5/12/64, and Miami
teletypes to Bureau, 5/12, 13, 15 and 20/64,

FROM: SAC, MIAMI (105-2855) ( P )

SUBJECT:

Enclosed are 12 copies of a letterhead memorandum
(LHM) dated and captioned as above. Copies are also being
furnished locally to State Department, Co-Ordinator of
Cuban Affairs, Border Patrol, Coast Guard, G-2, ost,
Customs (Miami and Region II), INS, FAA, ONI and CIA.

This communication is classified "Confidential" to
protect a source of continuing value.

MM T-1 is EVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ, Cuban pilot.

fo
The Miami Office has immediately notified Mr.
STANLEY SCHACHTER of U. S. Customs, Miami, of all pertinent
i developments and is maintaining close liaison with Mr. b—-
SCHACHTER. Mr. SCHACHTER has advised that U. S./ Customs
a is taking immediate appropriate investigative action and
surveillance action as to stop this raid and seize contraband.

Miami will maintain close contact with ALPIZAR and

close liaison with Customs vy 1 advise Bureau of emeaad tA
GF AY Eid

oa deve *eppeni®

aaa

< ny
@- Bureau (Enc. ay”, Itt
2 - Miami # ae MAY - 1964 {
1 - 105-1742) (Anti-FIDEL CASTRO Activities
ag GED: enew Copy ee L3 div / E05) isp es ca fea
nant \ =_ouioss ACSI “(Mesa
fof info. AZ ea peor 7
\ seam 3 ag fe a i en
errors: Sent M~ Per

‘Ny Wl € He

Gl / aed Agent in Charge SENRET

DocId:32301599 Page 2



a pase :
ae Richer aad fee

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT. OF ‘yUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami, Florida
May 21, 1964

e+——-MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE
RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA
(MIRR) :

NTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA;

AFUTRALITY MATTERS

, Previous investigation has reflected that the
Movimiento Insurrecional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria

yf ‘As an anti-Castro organization of Cuban exiles

xtered in Miami under the leadership of Dr. Orlando. Fle
vila, On May 11, 1964, MM T-1, a Cuban exile who = -——__
is friendly to some of Bosch's close associates, furnished Cube
information reflecting that Bosch had drawn up plans for a castite
joint sea and air raid designed to sink the "Las Villas",

a 300 foot Cuban freighter which was scheduled to have

recently departed Marseilles, France, for Havana, Cuba,

with a load of heavy equipment such as railroad stock

or buses. . Bosch planned to have this attack take place

off the coast of South Florida, utilizing a Bertram's

speedboat equipped with a homemade torpedo and an airplane

which would drop napalm during a co-ordinated attack on

othe "Las Villas".

Current Developments

On May 12, 1964, Mr,:§tanley Schachter, U. S. Ela
Customs, Miami, Florida, advised it hi een verified
through investigation that.one Theodore ler, made arrange-
ments on May 11, 1964, with Bertram's Boatyard, Miami, to
obtain rental of a Bertram 25 foot speedboat at 8:00 A. M.

on May 12, 1964. Through subsequent surveillance by U. S.
Customs this speedboat, bearing Registration FL-3696, was

DocId:32301599 Page 3


yon

Re: MIRR

determined ‘to be on the night of May 13, 1964, at Lake
Worth, Palm Beach, Florida, a short distance south of

the Lake Worth Inlet which connects the Inland Waterway
with the Atlantic Ocean.. Mr. Schachter advised that. two
men were obsérved on boa: this speedboat, one of whom had
been--identified as Orlando amirez, who, according to

MM T-1, is the MIRR bomb. éxpert. Fla, :

On May 12, 1964, Mr. ‘Schachter also advised that
as a result of investigation and surveillance by U. 8S. :
Customs in the neighborhood of a house located near 'N. W,
29th Avenue and 9th Street, Miami, it was determined that
on the night of May 11, 1964, ‘some unidentified Cubans
left this residence, went to a boat house located near
Miami’ International Airport on a’ lake and returned to the
Same residence later'that night with a. homemade torpedo
in’a car-drawn trailer. “ This torpedo was seized by U. S.
Customs agents on the morning of May . 12, 1964 as Dr.” :
Orlando Bosch Avila and one Mesa, a Cuban, were transporting
it by car trailer:from the house located on N. W. 29th
Avénue ‘to the Coconut Grove area of Miami. Mr. Schachter
described this torpedo as being about nine feet long,...about
two feet in diameter and constructed from a modified airplane
wing tank. ‘This torpedo had an outboard propeller and on
top an adapter for a radio antenna, which appeared to be
Part of the mechanism intended to make it operable by
electronic directional control. It also contained an
electric motor, battery operated. The nose of the torpedo

_ contained space for explosives but it was not loaded.

On May 12, 1964, MM T-1 advised that the MIRR
Planned. to use several walkie-talkie units to maintain
communications between the Bertram speedboat, the attacking
airplane and ground personnel for this operation. He
identified ‘the walkie-talkie as a Cadre Model C-75. It
was determined that these units transmit on 27.085 megacycles
and receive on 27.54 megacycles,

On May 14, 1964, MM T-1 reported that the MIRR
now plans to use a floating explosive mine as a substitute
for the torpedo which was seized by U. S. Customs. He said
this mine had been transported to Palm Beach so’ that. the
Bertram speedboat could Plant this mine in the direct path
of the."Las Villas" in. connection with the planned attack
on this vessel. - : oat i

SONEEDENTEAL

—_

-2-

Vee as

Qe.

DocId:32301599 Page 4


|
{

L

~~

_

Re: MIRR

Ele.

z MM T-1 stated that Evelid(Alpizar’ Parez had

been making daily flights‘in a Céessnk airplane from Miami
to the Palm Beach area, surveilling the sea lanes off the
coast of South Florida in order to locate the "Las Villas".
MM T=1 anticipated, however, that these flights would be-
discontinued temporarily as the MIRR had received informa-
tion reflecting that the "Las Villas" would not arrive off
the coast of South Florida util later in the week.

: On May 15, 1964, Mr. Schachter advised that U. S.
Customs had ascertained through appropriate channels that
the "Las Villas" departed Marseilles, France, on May 4,
1964, and passed. the Rock of Gibraltar ‘on May 9, 1964,
destined directly’ to Havana. On.the basis of the reported
speed of the "Las Villas" as being ten miles.per hour it
was anticipated that the "Las Villas" would arrive. off
the Florida coast about May 22, 1964.

On May 18, 1964, MM T-1 advised that.Bosch had
instructed that aerial surveillance flights to locate the
"Las Villas" be discontinued temporarily and that Bosch had

‘pl#ered his plans to include a daily look-out by boat in

the vicinity of Fowey Roc Lighthouse, which is located
at sea about 11 es ‘sou’ st of Miami. MM T-1 said that
Captain FranciscoMernandez ernandez, who was skipper of

‘the "Ebb Tide" during the unsttecessful December 28, 1963 Fe

MIRR sea.- air raid, is in charge of the look-out ‘boat.
Hernandez will conduct this surveillance daily in the
vicinity of Fowey Rock in order to spot the "Las. Villas"
as it proceeds south toward Havana. Upon locating the
"Las Villas", Hernandez is scheduled to notify, by radio
the other participants so that the air - sea raid can be
conducted as originally planned. i

On May 18, 1964, Mr. Schachter advised that the
Bertram speedboat, mentioned previously, had been returned
to Miami on May 16, 1964 and is presently under surveillance
by U. S. Customs in Biscayne Bay. It was also determined
by U. S. Customs that rental of this boat had been continued
for an additional week.

This document contains neither recommendations
nor conclusions of the FBI. It is-the property of the FBI
and is loaned to your agency; _it and its contents are not
to be distributed outside your agency.

CONBEDENTIAL
a ae

DocId:32301599 Page 5


UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT ors USTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION |"

In Reply, Ploase Refer to:
_ FileNo .

Miami, Florida
“S :

May 21, 1964
- REVIEWED BY ent TASK FORCE

CORBEDENTTAL
ON aha jn clad “~—Ret—HIOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE
“DRELEASE INFULL RECUPERACTON REVOLUCIONARIA
; MIRR
os IN PART "INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA;
o TOTAL DENIAL, :

‘UTRALITY MATTERS

Previous investigation has reflected that the
Movimiento Insurrecional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria
(MIRR) “is an anti-Castro organization of Cuban exiles
headquarterad in Miami under the leadership of Dr. Orlando
Bosch Avila. On May 11, 1964, MM T-1, a Cuban exile who

information reflecting that Bosch had drawn up plans fora
joint sea and air raid designed to sink the "Las Villas",
a 300 foot Cuban freighter which was scheduled to have
recently departed Marseilles, France, for Havana, Cuba,
with a load of heavy equipment such as railroad stock

or buses. Bosch planned to have this’ attack take place
off the coast of South Florida, utilizing a Bertram's

which would drop napalm during a co-ordinated attack on
the "Las Villas", : : :

Current Developments
aks On May 12, 1964, Mr, Stanley Schachter, U. S,
Customs, Miami, Florida, advised it had been verified
through investigation that:one Theodore Fuller made arrange=-
ments on May 11, 1964, with Bertram's Boatyard, Miami, to
obtain rental of a Bertram 25 foot speedboat at’ 8:00 A. M.
on May 12, 1964. Through subsequent surveillance by U. S.:
Customs this speedboat, bearing Registration FL-3696,: was -

SPORMATTON CONTATNED
ie eetee :

is friendly ta some of Bosch's close associates, furnished °°

speedboat equipped with a: homemade torpedo and an airplane..

DocId:32301599 Page 6


Re: MIRR

determined to be on the night of May 13, 1964, at Lake
» Worth, Paim Beach, Florida, a short distance south of
the Lake Worth Inlet which connects the Inland Waterway
with the Atlantic Ocean. Mr. Schachter advised. that two
|<. \s Men were observed on board this speedboat, one of whom had
been identified as Orlando Ramirez, who, according to
MM T~1, is the MIRR bomb expert. i

On May 12, 1964, Mr. Schachter also advised that
. . 88 a result of investigation and surveillance by U. S. :
I ‘Customs in the neighborhood of: a house located near ‘N. W.
iprateey 29th Avenue and 9th Street, Miami, it was determined that
on the night of May 11, 1964, some unidentified Cubans
left this residence, went to a boat house located near
Miami International Airport on a lake and returned to the
same residence later that night with a homemade torpedo
ina car-drawn trailer. This torpedo was seized by U.S.
Customs agents on the morning of May 12, 1964 as Dr.~
Orlando Bosch Avila and one Mesa, a Cuban, were transporting:
it by car trailer from the house located on N. W. 29th’
Avenue to the Coconut Grove area of Miami. Mr. Schachter
described this torpedo as being about nine feet long, about
7 two feet in diameter and constructed from a modified airplane
Vs wing tank. This torpedo had an outboard propeller ‘and on
: _top an adapter for a radio antenna, which:appeared to be
f part of the mechanism intended to make it operable by
i; electronic directional control. “It also contained an :
i electric motor, battery operated. The nose of the torpedo
“contained space for explosives but it was not loaded.

On May 12, 1964, MM T-1 advised that the MIRR
planned to use several walkie-talkie units to maintain .
communications between the Bertram speedboat, the attacking
airplane and ground personnel for this operation. He
identified the walkie-talkie as a Cadre Model C-75. It
" was determined that these units transmit on 27.085 megacycles
and receive on 27.54 megacycles,

| On May 14, 1964, MM T-1 reported that the MIRR

4 now plans to use a floating explosive mine as a substitute :
4 for the torpedo which was seized by. U. S. Customs. He said:
; this mine had been transported. to Palm Beach so’ that. the

qa Bertram’ speedboat could plant this mine. in the direct path
| : of the "Las Villas" in connection with the planned attack

if on this vessel, .- ; _ te Sea

{
{| Docla:32301599 Page 7


Re: UMIRR

. Mia Tel stated that Evelio Alpizar Perez had
been making daily flights in a Céssna airplane from Miami
to the Palm Beach area, surveilling the sea lanes’ off ‘the
coast of South Florida in ordér to locate the "Las Villas"
MM T-1 anticipated, however, that these flights would be“:
discontinued temporarily as the MIRR had received informa—

the coast of South Florida util later in the week.

the "Las Villas" departed Marseilles, France, on May 4,
1964,.and passed the Rock of Gibraltar on May 9, 1964,

speed of the "Las Villas" as being ten miles:.per hour it
was anticipated that the "Las Villas" would arrive off
the Florida coast about May 22, 1964,

On May 18, 1964, MM T-1 advised that Bosch had
instructed that aerial surveillance flights to locate the
"Las Villas" be discontinued temporariy and that Bosch had
e@léorcd his plans to include a daily look-out by boat in
the vicinity of Fowey Rock Lighthouse, which is located

Captain Francisco Hernandez Fernandez, who was skipper of
the "Ebb Tide" during the unsuccessful December 28, 1963
MIRR sea ~ air raid, is in charge of the look-out boat.
Hernandez will conduct this surveillance daily in the
vicinity of Fowey Rock in order to spot the "Las Villas"
as it proceeds south toward Havana. Upon locating the
"Las Villas", Hernandez is scheduled to notify by radio (
the other participants so that the air - sea raid can be |
conducted as originally planned. i

On May 18, 1964, Mr. Schachter advised that the
Bertram speedboat, mentioned previously, had been returned
to Miami on May 16, 1964 and is presently under surveillance
by U. S. Customs in Biscayne Bay. It was also determined
by U. S. Customs that rental of this boat had been continued
for an additional week. :

This document.contains neither recommendations
nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI
and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not
to be distributed outside your” agency. é .

__.tion reflecting that the "Las Villas" would not arrive off. >

; On May 15, 1964, Mr. Schachter advised that U. 8. ,
Customs” had ascertained through appropriate channels that *..”

destined directly to Havana: On the basis of the reported we

at sea about 11 miles southeast of Miami. MM T-l said that ~~"

| Docld: 32301599 Page 8
