AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-10293-10127

HQ
CR 92-5666-1, 2

Document Information

FBI
BARRETT, ROBERT M.
DIRECTOR, FBI

11/01/1961 :
7

JFC, REL, ASSOC, PERSONAL HISTORY, BKG, CRIMINAL
ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT i:
Unclassified care
4

Redact

06/02/1998

INDEFINITE

INC MEMO

v9.1

| Docla: 32307769 Page 1

4/24/201


a

C

O

DL 92-331

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS:

. The following informants, contacted by the agents so
designated have all furnished reliable information in the past
or have requested their identities be kept confidential in view
of their positions.

DL T-1 is Mrs. LEE DANNELLY, Administrative Assistant,
State Selective Service Headquarters, Austin, Texas, contacted
by SA GEORGE W. H. CARLSON, San Antonio.

DL T-2 is JEROME J. CRANE, a confidential source of
the Dallas. Office, contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

DL T-3 is JUANITA B. WHITLOCK, Selective Service
Headquarters, Dallas, contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

DL T-4 is PCI ELMER LEE WATSON, contacted by SA
ROBERT P. GEMBERLING.” a

DL T-5 is JOE FERRARI who is being developed as a
confidential source of the Dallas Office and who has requested
his identity be kept confidential. :

DL T-6 is Mr. JAMES COONER, Chief, Intelligence Unit,
IRS, Dallas, Texas, who has requested his identity be kept
confidential, contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT. ,

' DL T-7 is FRANK McGOWEN, ‘Recording Secretary, Knights
of Columbus, Dallas,’ who has’ requested his identity be kept
confidential and who was contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT

Careful consideration has. been given to each source
concealed and T symbols were utilized in this report only in
those instances where the identities of the sources must be
concealed.

INFORMANT COVERAGE:

The. following informants and confidential. sources. of
the Dallas Office,are being utilized in the coverage of the
subject's activities, associates, etc.

DL~105-C :
PCI ELMER LEE WATSON
Ee DL-122-C
JOE FERRARI, a Dallas Italian who is well acquainted
with BOSCO and many of BOSCO's associates. ~*

~E-

COVER PAGE

| Docld: 32307769 Page 2

\
i
|
'
|
|
|


oe =u - wv.
DL 92-331 G ! Co

JEROME J. CRANE, a funeral home operator who handles
most of the Italian funerals in Dallas and who is
a confidential source of the Dallas Office.

R. A, BURROW, Chief Special Agent, Southwestern Bell
Telephone Co.

The Dallas Office will attempt to develop as informants
FERRARI, W. J. HARTMAN, a suspected Dallas gamoier and EDDIE EARL
FAULKNER, a suspected Dallas gambler and pimp. who is believed
acquainted with the gambling element in Dallas.

In addition to the above, the Dallas Office continues
its efforts to further identify BOSCO's associates with a view

towards development of these associates as informants as to
BOSCO and his activities.

~F-*

COVER PAGE

| Docld: 32307769 Page 3

