JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10220-10422
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 105-114543-92
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, NK
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 03/12/1964
PAGES: 8
SUBJECTS :
JURE, MR, ASSOC, MIL ACT, RCD, ACA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/01/1998 i
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : INC LHM

val
Docld:32298146 Page 1


UNITED STATES. GOVERNMENT

< MEMORANDUM ; ( TTA

j
e TO DIRECTOR, FBI (105-114543) DATE: 3/12/64
Ne FROM K AC, NEWARK (105-14827) (RUC)
/ &
‘ SUB : Osuvra REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
4 (CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA) |
(JURE) 4 : SPEeeeeeceereret
Is - CUBA; RA ~ CUBA; NEUTRALITY MATTERS
(CO: SAN JUAN)
Ly
L) RE: San Juan letter to the Bureau, 12/24/63.
S _ Bureau letter to Newark, 2/26/64. i
Enclosed for the Bureau are twelve copies ‘of a LHM,

bi Copies are also being furnished to Miami because of the
ed activities of this group in the Miami area and to New York

x office. Copies are also being furnished loc; y ‘to INS and

‘

NK T-2 is JORGINA ABICH, 114 Clifton Place, Jersey
City, N.J. (Nurses Residence, Jersey City Medical Center) (by
request}, 4,

“NK T-3 is JOSE MANUEL MACIAS, 178 Ferry Stree

we

Docld:32298146 Page 2

because of the activities mentioned herein of interest to that

Customs, &
aS oe i DECLASSIFIED BY Mabe en
”™ Tel is NK 2361~C-B. Ig. 5-44 (Te) os

Nv Newark, Nodes SOI (by request).Zz uw ral f
) NE Te4 is (LUCAS BORGES, former Psi] (by request),
g é : LHM is classified confidential to protect the
8S %9 _. identities of NK T~1 and NK T-2 which could reasonably result
atl in the identification of confidential sources of continuing
R Fy value and compromise future effectiveness, %
Se}
a N @Q pking tar 4 (Ri) ) ae
Ag > - Miami (105-6661) (Znc. 3). (Rif, : ‘
RHOEa =" ys u.s. customs, Miami REC B/ OS - 1 Y 5-5 is
235% 2 - New York (INFO) (Etc. 2) (RM) accelerated oo
HOT: 1 U.S. Customs, New York C4
=SS88 2 - San Juan (105-6242) (Enc. 2) (BM) - ae dit
OO om 2 ~ Newark Sere areca eecy ty Ss
58 1 ~ 105-15436 : ah IYKK
& 8 > RDL:spa Ze Yen $ f
8 RE G2) : eo | .
aug 2 ENCLOS -7¥4f
& og ste wClassifie y LLEF RES Le
5 QMAR 2 iyi Dectossitf en: OADR

Hl
j

Net

2a8,7

~
