# docid-32404521

## Page 1

Date: 03/14/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10332-10008

RECORD SERIES :

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PROJFILES-DECLASS STDS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under

the John

. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 55157 Date:

04-06-2018

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE :

ARRB-CIA ISSUES:

DATE

:

08/23/1995

FOREIGN LIAISON

PAGES

22

SUBJECTS : LIAISON

JFK ASSASSINATION

UNIT INDEX

ARRB ISSUE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE

OF LAST REVIEW

04/01/03

COMMENTS: JFK-M-17 : F9 : 2000.02.14.15:24:51:577044

: UNIT INDEX

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10332-10008

NH 55157

DooId: 32404521

Page

1

---

## Page 2

KI:C

343l

EVIE"

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202).724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

Copy provided to

CIA DY FBI

August 23, 1995

HAND DELIVERED

John A. Hartingh

Inspector-in-Charge

JFK Task Force

Federal Bureau of Investigation

10th Street and Pennsyivania Avenue, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20535

RE: Foreign Government Liaison

Dear John:

This morning, Jack Tunheim, Phil Golrick, and I met with Kenneth Duncan and several

State Department representatives regarding how best to implement the JFK Act as to

information obtained from foreign governments through liaison channels. We had a

very constructive discussion of the affirmative role the State Department could play in

encouraging foreign governments, through appropriate diplomatic channels, to agree to

the release of such information pursuant to the JFK Act. The Review Board believes

that Section 10(b)(2) of the JFK Act contemplates that the State Department play

precisely such a role.

As for now, we will hold in abeyance requésts for evidence on foreign liaison

postponements to which the FBI has not yet responded. This will give us the

opportunity in the near future to work with the State Department and the FBI to

establish orderly procedures to persuade the foreign governments in question that it is

in our countries' mutual interests to release liaison information in assassination records.

Until such procedures are in place, we request that the FBI not make further contact.

with foreign law-enforcement or other government officials regarding the release of

liaison information in assassination records.

BOARO MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair : Henry F. Graff • Kermil L. Hall • William L. Joyce Anna K. Nelson

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: David G. Marwell

1N J5157 D0010:32404521 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Mr. John A. Hartingh

August 23, 1995

Page 2

Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any question.

Sincerely yours,

T. Jeremy Gunn

Associate Director for Research and Analysis

and Acting General Counsel

cc: Kenneth A. Duncan

Department of State

N6 55157 DocId: 32404521 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Sceret

13 February 1996

Note

to :

Subject:

Reference:

Bob Skwirot,

ARRB Staff

Liaison related documents.

Phone call between Ellie and Jeremy,

12 February 1996

Attached are a list and documents (13) which show

liaison relationships between the CIA and host services.

They illustrate the problem of protecting liaison while

releasing stations.

These Documents were acted on by the

Board

at the

January 5 meeting.

Attachments

as stated

OFFICIAL USE ONLY WHEN SEPARATED FROM ATTACHMENTS

seeret

HH 55157

DooId: 32404521

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

JFK Act 6

(1) (A)

EJEK Act

6 (1) (B)

ATTACHMENT

104-10017-10040: Although the Board continues to protect

the

liaison cryptonym in both paragraphs, the text shows Station

cooperation with the

104-10017-10058: Although the liaison cryptonym remains

protected, Paragraph 4 indicates liaison with the

104-10018-10089: Board has made a determination to release

"your liaison" in Paragraph 1 in addition to identifying

Station.

104-10018-10091: With release of Stations

Stat evello alson with

the respective local services.

104-10017-10036: Although the liaison cryptonym is

protected, the context of the cable clearly shows Station

(if released) has a liaison relationship with the

104-10015-10425: The text of this cable from Rome,

responding to a multi-Station message, states that liaison

traces will follow. Once the identification of the Station

is released, the existence of a liaison relationship with

the Italian service in November 1963 is revealed.

104-10015-10420: Cable from

in clear text indicates "no

liaison" traces; therefore,

if the identification of the

Station is released, it will acknowledge the liaison

relationship between the Station and the

104-10015-10159: Paragraph 4 contains information that will

show that

station had a technical operation directe

against the Cuban target in

in November 1963. ALSO

context of the cable reflects that the following Stations

have a relationship with their local liaisons:

the

CL BY

REASON 1.5(d)

DECL X5; X5

DRV LIA 3-87

-SECRET

HH 55157 DocId:32404521 Page 5

---

## Page 6

AJEK Act

6 (1) (A)

JFK Act

6

(1) (B)

-SECRET

104-10015-10225: Paragraph 2 of the cable reflects that Rome

Station had a technical operation in conjunction with the

Italian liaison. Please note:

The Board continues to protect

the cryptonyms.

104-10015-10230: Cable reflects that Station had the access

to photograph US passports at the

It can be implied that that capability is due to a

liaison

relationship with the

104-10015-10255: Cable reflects The

station had a

photo operation in the

When reviewed with 104-

10015-10230, it will be clear that the operation refers to

104-10018-10088: Cable clearly shows that both

and

[stations have a [

in their

respective countries if the Stations are released.

104-10018-10080: At the bottom of Page 2 of the cable is the

phrase

"assume

_still planned ask its liaison to

interrogate." Release of Station and this phrase clearly

reflects a

with the

CL BYL

REASON 1.5(d)

DECL XS; X5

DRV LIA 3-87

-SECRET

_HH 55157 DocId: 32404521 Page 6

---

## Page 7

• :

..:

#JFK Act

6 (1) (A)

JEK Act

6

(1) (B)

SECRET

From the Desk of

NOTE FOR:

FROM:

DATE:

SUBJECT:

J. Barry Harrelson

04/29/96 04:26:36 PM

Memo re Mexican Liaison (S)

CL BY

CL REASON 1.5 (a)

DECL ON X1

DRV FM LIA 3-82

The following is a draft memo for Jeff.

is looking at it now so there may be more changes. Please let me know if there is

anything incorrect here. I have a feeling Jeff will want a meeting with me rather than just the memo. Also, knowing him, he may want

to deal with Tunheim on this directly since he was involved in this. I will let you know.

1. Action: That you advise as per paragraph 7..

2.

Background: You will recall that you spoke with

Chairman Tunheim of the JFK Board about the attached cable and

the importance of protecting the phrase #with Mexicans" because

it gives away liaison involvement in a tel-tap operation.

At

its 16 April meeting, at which I was present, the Board

reconsidered its initial decision, but determined that the phrase

could be released.

3. It had just come to HRG's attention that this same

cable was released in full by the Board,

with no objection by

CIA, in September 1995. CIA probably did not contest this

release because an

excerpt from this cable, containing the phrase

It

to appeal this release to the white House. Ito the National Archwes in lug 93

4.

would cause "clear and convincing damage" to the national

security only to find that this phrase has been released with CIA

acquiescence for at least seven months, with no ostensible damage.

Conceivably, the Board could see this incident as a justification

of their second-guessing our damage assessments, and

could give

us a much more difficult time in the future.

SECRET

HH 55157 DocId:32404521 Page 7

---

## Page 8

-SECAET

5.

On the other hand, CIA could use this situation as a

way to highlight the problems HRG has had with the JFK review

process - that documents are being reviewed and released to the

National Archives in such quantity and speed that it is difficult

for CIA to focus on any one document and, more importantly, how

seemingly innocuous information in one document can actually be

quite significant in relation to prior or subsequent releases.

Since September,

when this cable was originally released, the

issue of protecting Mexican liaison has become increasingly

important because of other releases on this subject and because

of your appearance before the Board in February.

6.

Furthermore, this prior release should not impair our

ability to continue to protect the fact of Mexican involvement in

this tel-tap operation.

Although we have argued to the Board aluther

In fact, the reason

for the Board's insistence that this phrase should be released

- relate

was the very fact that-the cable did NOT directly state that the

Mexican sawere involvedrin the tel-tap.

We should be able to use

their arguments to continue to protect the liaison relationship.

7.

Our only recourse is to acknowledge to the Board that

CIA has no basis to bring

an appeal to the President since this

cable has already been released in full.

We should, however,

naintain our position that we believe this information is

damaging especially in light of releases to National Archives

since September, and that we never would have acquiesced to the

release in September if we knew then what would be released on

this subject in the

ensuing months.

Although this message does

not necessarily need to be conveyed by you to Tunheim and could

be handled by John Pereira and David Marwell, given your past

dealings with the Board on this issue, you may prefer to do this.

In order to avoid problems like this in the future, HRG

is immediately dedicating several personnel to the task. of

reviewing boxes pf documents and determining what our releases

documents going to che cord to 11 a150 be double pheckies of

dentil

prior releases are being sent. You should be aware, however,

that there is only a rudimentary CIA computer index listing ourffoul proof

releases and that it is impossible to do accurate computer

searches about our releases on specific subjects. Although HRG

personnel

are extremely knowledgeable on what has been released,

with over 220,000 CIA documents currently in the collection, it

is suprising that mistakes like this have not happened more

often, andno absolute assurances it cant happen again.

CC:

-SECRET

HH 55157 DooId:32404521 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

AJEK Act 6 (1) (A)

WEK Act 6

(1) (B)

15 October 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Assassination Records Review

Board

FROM:

SUBJECT:

John F. Pereira

Chief, Historical Review Group

Foreign Government Information

(We request that this memorandum be returned to CIA once the

Board has completed its deliberations on the issues discussed

below.)

1. 1S Issue: This memorandum will address CIA's position

on the review and declassification of foreign government

information that appears in the JFK collection.

This issue has

come to CIA's attention because of the recent review by the JEK

_documents.

The Agency believes it is

important to address this issue at this time because this is the

first instance that this type of foreign liaison document has

been reviewed by the Board and it is possible that such

information will appear again in CIA's collection.

This memo

will, therefore, focus on the larger issue of a United States

Government (USG)

agency's legal obligations in the dissemination

and declassification of foreign government information but will

also address the specific issue of the

documents"

(documents:

2. 481 Conclusion: CIA does not object to the release of the

intormation in these

_documents, but is only concerned about

protecting foreign government information. Therefore, the Agency

does not object to the release of the four CIA documents in the

redacted form proposed by the Board. With regards to the two

the Agency has no authority to unilaterally

agree to their release in any form.

obligations, CIA ordinarily seeks the consent of the foreign

Agency has no authority t

Pursuant to its legal

government prior to declassifying their information. However,

CL BY :

CL REASON: 1.5 (d)

DECL ON: X5

DRV FM: LIA 3-82

SECRET

HH 55157 DooId:32404521

Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECR

SUBJECT: Foreiqn Government Information

JEK Act: 6 (1)'(A)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

JER Act 6 (1)(A)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

3. (U) Legal Authorities:

The procedures governing

the

declassification and dissemination of foreign government

information are set out in Executive Order 12958, as well as

Director of Central Intelligence Directives (DCIDs). Executive

Order 12958 defines foreign government information as including

(1) information provided by a foreign government, or any element

with the expectation, expressed or implied, that the

information and/or the source of the information, are to be held

in confidence; or (2) information produced by the United States

pursuant to or as a result of a joint arrangements with a foreign

government, or any element thereof, requiring that the

information, the arrangements, or both, are to be held in

confidence. Id., at §1.1(d)

Foreign government information is subject to a

classification determination under E.O. 12958, section 1.5 (c).

When so classified, U.S. government agencies

are obligated to

protect that information from unauthorized disclosure.

The E.0.

requires that foreign government information shall either retain

its original classification or be assigned a U.S. classification

that shall ensure a degree of protection at least equivalent to

that required by the entity that furnished the information. Id.,

at 1.7(e). Furthermore, agencies are required to safeguard

foreign government information under standards that provide a

degree of protection at least equivalent to that required by the

originating government. Id., at 4.2(g).

5. (U) Pursuant to his authority as head of the

intelligence community to protect all classified information from

unauthorized disclosure, the Director of Central Intelligence has

issued Directives (that is, DCIDS) setting out the procedures for

he declassification and dissemination of foreian government

information.

Intelligence obtained from another government or

from a combined effort with another government, may not be

released or authorized for release without its consent. DCID 5/6

attachment & C.3.

Furthermore, the release of intelligence that

would be contrary to agreements between the U.S. and foreign

countries is expressly prohibited. Id., at § C.5.

6. (U)

Finally, the very

fact of intelligence cooperation

between the U.S. and specifically named foreign countries and

government components is classified SECRET unless a different

classification is mutually agreed upon.

DCID 1/10-1. Such

information may be declassified only with the mutual consent of

the U.S. and the foreign government whose interests are involved.

DCID 1/10-1.

SECRET

HH 55157 DocId:32404521 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

SUBJECT: Foreign Government Information

JEK Act '6

(1) (A)

JEK Act

(1) (B)

the U.S. and the foreign government whose interests are involved.

DCID 1/10-1.

7. (U) National Security Considerations: The importance of

such coordination with foreign governments prior to the release

of their information cannot be overemphasized.

Should CIA, or

for that matter any (USG) agency fail to coordinate where

required, not only would

it be a violation of the aforementioned

E.O. and directives, but it would chill relationships it has

developed with foreign services over the years.

If such lack of

coordination became known, foreign services would hesitate to

share crucial intelligence information with CIA if they believed

it would be released, in spite of any agreements or U.S. laws to

the contrary, without their consent. Furthermore, the U.s. could

not expect foreign services to safeguard U.s. government

information that it shares with its liaison partners in order to

pursue authorized intelligence and foreign policy objectives.

8. 181 According to its legal obligations described herein,

CIA coordinates the dissemination and/or release of foreign

government information.

Its obligation to do so is similar to

its obligation to coordinate declassification efforts with

another USG agency should the CIA possess any of that agency's

documents. For example, CIA could not declassify and release to

the public FBI information located in CIA files without

coordinating with that

agency.

Similarly, CIA has no authority

to unilaterally declassify foreign government documents or

information in its files.

JFK Act 6

(1) 1A

JEK Act 6 (11(B

3.

SECRET

MH 55157

DocId: 32404521

Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECRET

SUBJECT: Foreign Government Information

JEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act 6

(1) (B)

JER Act 6

(1) (A)

JEK Act 6 (1)(B)

4

SECRET

HH 55157

DocId: 32404521

Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

"SUBJECT:

Foreign Government Information

JEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

also to the conduct of US foreign relations. that the USG is seen

as abiding by its agreements with

foreign services as well

as its

own laws on the release of information.

JEK Act

(1) (A)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

13. (U) Should the Board reject these proposals, CIA is

willing to work with the Board to reach another mutually

agreeable solution.

We strongly believe, however, that any

approach which suggests that the U.S. Government may ignore its

obligations and commitments to foreign governments would

seriously undermine the vigorous and healthy diplomatic as well

as intelligence relationships that we currently enjoy.

JEK Act

6 (1) (A)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

5.

SECRET

NN 55157 DocId:32404521 Page 13

---

## Page 14

•SECRET

SUBJECT: Foreian Government Information

JEK: Act 6 (1) (A)

JFK Act 6' (1) (B)

government.

As süch, CIA consents to the release of these

documents with the redactions proposed by the Board.

15. (S)

Proposal for Future Coordination: With regards to

any other foreign government information that may exist in the

files, CIA proposes that it approach its liaison services to

request their consent in the release of their information when it

would be appropriate to do so.

Australia make it impossible for CIA to approach them at this

ch may not be 0 nich the serv

Although recent events with

In cases were CIA

believes, because of the nature of the relationship, that it

would not be possible to request the consent of the service, CIA

proposes that the documents either be postponed from release or

that CIA and Board's staff coordinate a summary.

JEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JFK Act 6

(1) (B)

John

F. Pereira

Attachment

HH

55157

DocId: 32404521

Page

14

---

## Page 15

JFK ACt 6 (2) (B)

HH 55157

DocId: 32404521

Page

15

---

## Page 16

1. CONFIDENTIAL

JEK Act

6 (1) (A)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

HH 55157

Doc1d:32404521

Page

16

---

## Page 17

ARRE Dee mt

SECRET

Central intelligence Agency

Washington. D.C. 20505

28 January 1997

Mr. David G. Marwell

Executive Director

Assassination Records

Review

Board

600 E Street, NW

Washington, DC 20530

Dear David:

This is to acknowledge your letter of 3 January 1997 to the

Director of Central Intelligence concerning the Assassination

Records Review Board's recent formal determinations with respect

to CIA Records.

The appropriate Agency components have again reviewed the

documents that the Board has decided to release either totally or

with some information postponed.

While the Agency does not plan

to appeal to the President for additional postponements at this

time, we ask that the Board reconsider its decisions with respect

to six documents.

These documents contain information relating to

foreign government provided data, foreign liaison relationships,

and intelligence sources--information that we believe merits

protection under current standards set by the Board. A list of

these six documents, together with Agency comments concerning

them, is enclosed.

We plan no further action on these documents pending

discussion with your staff and review by the Board.

JEK ACt 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act

6

(1) (B)

John F. Pereira

Chief,

Historical Review Group

Enclosure

UNCLASSIFIED WHEN

SEPARATED FROM ENCLOSURE

HH 55157 DocId:32404521

Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECRET-

ENCLOSURE

JEK Act

• (1) 12

TEK Act 6 (1) (B

CL BY :

DECL ON:

XI

CL REASON:

DV

FM:

AHB

1.5 (c)

70-9 MULTIPLE

JFK Act 6 (1) (8)

HH 55157

DocId: 32404521

Page

18

---

## Page 19

SECRET

JEK Act 6 (1) (8)

(1) (B)

1N 55157

Doc1d:32404521

Page

19

---

## Page 20

SEINA FLON

REC

SECRET

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

EVIEW

BOARD

September 5, 1997

BY COURIER

Mr. John Pereira

Director

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, DC 20505

Re:

Request to CIA to contact liaison channels regarding LIENVOY intercepts of

Oswald telephone calls in Mexico City

Some time ago the Review Board requested informally that CIA contact its liaison

channels in Mexico City for information related to Lee Harvey Oswald. During your

recent visit here we discussed with you the feasibility of your making such contacts. I

am writing in response to your request that we memorialize our request and provide

some background information.

The Review Board believes that all reasonable steps should be taken to account for all

telephonic intercepts of Oswald during his visit to Mexico City in September-October

1963. There is evidence that CIA intercepted some telephone calls through an operation

named LIENVOY]

We

believe that it would be appropriate for CIA to contact directly

telephonic take, specifically the actual recordings of Oswald's telephone calls to the

Soviet Embassy during the period of September 27 through October 3, 1963.

The Review Board previously has sought information from the Mexican Government

through appropriate diplomatic channels. For reasons that are obvious to those

familiar with Mexico City issues, the Review Board could not raise with Mexican

officials nor with the U.S. State Department the possible existence of additional tape

recordings that might be in the hands of certain officials. Thus, at the behest of the

Review Board, the Department of State requested that the Mexican federal government

and local government agencies conduct general searches of their files for records

related to the assassination of President Kennedy. The Mexican government responded

-SECRET

BOARD MEMBERs: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: David G. Marwell

JEK Act

6 (1) (A)

JEK Act

6 (1) (B)

HH 55157 Do0Id:32404521

Page 20

---

## Page 21

WEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JFK Act

6 (1) (B)

SECRET

Mr. John Pereira

September 5, 1997

Page 2

by sending copies of the same documentation and correspondence that the GOM had

made available to the Warren Commission in 1964.

The basis for our interest in your contacting appropriate Mexican officials is found in

CIA document 104-10004-10199, which was reviewed by the Board on September 19,

1995. On page 5 of this document (not including the cover sheet) information that the

Board agreed to protect, due to the sensitivity of sources and methods involved,

intercept on Lee Harvey Oswald. It is unclear whether this statement refers to the

transcript or to an actual tape containing the phone call. Nevertheless, it provides

enough evidence to warrant additional inquiries on this matter.

For your reference we are enclosing copies of the reference documents as well as copies

of the correspondence between the DOS and the Mexican government.

We would appreciate your contacting appropriate officials to determine what

reasonably can be known about this and related matters, and ask that you provide a

response to this request by November 14, 1997.

_ We are fully aware of the sensitivity of

this type of request and do not wish to take any action that would compromise |

JIf necessary, we would be pleased to discuss with you ways in

which we might further elaborate on this request, including person-to-person

discussions with appropriate officials either here_

Thank you for your continued assistance and cooperation.

Sincerely yours,

Juple for

T. Jeremy Gunn

General Counsel and Associate Director

for Research and Analysis

cc: J. Barry Harrelson, HRG

Enclosures

SECRET

1H 55157 DocId: 32404521 Page 21

---

## Page 22

÷*

SECRET

#JEK'Act 6 (1) (A)

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

CL BY

CL REASON: Section 1.5 C

DECL ON: X1

DRV FRM: COV 2-87

15 January 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

John Pereira @ DCI

Fred Wickham @ DO

Lee Strickland @ DA

FROM:

J. Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Officer

CSI/HRG

ARRB 22 January Meeting - Agenda

OFFICE:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

1. The following items are on the ARRB meeting agenda for 22 January 1998:

A. Reconsideration of the

The ARRB staff has advised that briefings by senior ClA ano

are

not required. However, the AgencyL

are welcome to make a presentation if it will add to the information being presented in the

"evidence memorandum". The evidence memorandum must be at ARRB no later than Tuesday 20 January. Mr. Gunn has suggested

we may want to have individuals standing by for questions. The current plan is for Lee Strickland and me to be available at 600 E. St.

NW. to answer any questions.

(AIUO) B. Office of Personnel Files in the Sequestered Collection (Microfilm). The ARRB staff will recommend to the Board that

personnel files be declared NBR (Not Believed Relevant) and their release postponed until 2017. The Agency position is that the privacy

of each individual clearly outweighs the public interest, most of the information in these files has no relevance to the assassination story

and any related information exist elsewhere in the collection. At ARRB staff request HRP is preparing five OP files for review by Board

members. The ARRB staff will prepare a memorandum for public release describing the files; their memo will be coordinated with the

Agency prior to release.

(AIOU) C. Non-related files/documents in the Sequestered Collection (Microfilm). The ARRB staff will recommend that the files

and documents (approximately 35,000 pages) designated non-related by CIA during the 1994 review of the microfilm be declared NBR

and released in 2017. If the recommendation is accepted by the Board, the ARRB staff will prepare an unclassified description of the

records for public release. This too will be coordinated with the Agency prior to release.

D. Other possible items:

(AIUO)

i. ARRB Request # CIA 1 ... The ARRB staff may request that the DO documents at issue in this request be

declared Assassination Records to be released in full or sanitized form.

SECRET

HH 55157

DocId: 32404521

Page 22

---

## Page 23

-SECRET

(S)

ii. Crypt LINLUCK - ARRB staff did not find our evidence memo on this crypt persuasive. They are expected to

recommend that the Board reaffirm its decision to release.

(AIUD) ii. 19671G report on "Castro Assassination Plots".- ARRB has requested that an updated version be released to NARA by

the end of January. Any disagreements between the Agency and ARRB staff may be added to the

agenda. HRP and

DO reviewers are currently re-reviewing the report.

(U)

2. If you have any questions about any of these items please call me.

CC:

Becky Rant @ DA

Sent on 15 January 1998 at 05:24:34 PM

JEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

SECRET

HH 55157

DocId: 32404521

Page

23

---

