# docid-32300094

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10226-10374

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-277

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/28/1961

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

SGI, TRA, LV, ASSOC, MCGUIRE, PHYLLIS, GREEN GABLES

RANCH

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32300094

Page

398

---

## Page 2

S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

CUMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUN2 8 1951

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson-

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr

Vir. Sallahan

Mr.

Conia

HIVE

Mr.

Rosen

Sullivan

Mr.

Tatel

Mir. Trotter

Tele. Room.

Mr Ligram

Miss Gandy

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE V-S UN STER

BISPERIS CoL

URGENT 6-28-61:

8-08 PM CLM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-3171/

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-349/ 2P

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA, ARO DAILY SUMMARY. LAS VEGAS ADVISED BY

TELETYPE YESTERDAY THAT CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE ADVISED STRONG POSSIBILITY

OF SUBJECT BEING IN LAS VEGAS AT GREEN GABLES RANCH WITH PHYLLIS MC

GUIRE, HAVING BEEN THERE FOR PAST FEW DAYS. INDIVIDUAL RESEMBLING

GIANCANA STAYS IN HOUSE AND AVOIDS CONTACT. WITH OUTSIDERS. MC GUIRE

WAS OBSERVED SUNBATHING IN THE NUDE WHILE PERSON RESEMBLING GIANCANA

SPRAYED: HER WITH GARDEN HOSE TO KEEP COOL. ONE CAR OBSERVED AT

RANCH ON NUMEROUS OCCASIONS, LISTED TO NICKOLAS, CECOLA, TWO TWO ZERO

SOUTH FAIRFIELD, LAS VEGAS• LAS VEGAS ADVISED THAT APARTMENT AVAILABLE

FOR OBSERVATION POST AVAILABLE ADJACENT TO MC GUIRE/S RANCH HOUSE.

RE NICHOLAS CECOLA CHICAGO INDICES REFLEGY ONE NICHOLAS CECOLA, NO1

FURTHER DAUNTIED, AS ASSOCIATE OF DEGAGED ACO DOOR TONY

CAPER SINANTE GREEN FORTIES. ONE NICHOLAS JOSEPH CA

15510

REC- 54

COURT DEPUTY CHICAGO, AND CO OWNER OF BAR IN CHICAGO JUINTERVELVED

IN NINETEEN TO!

NINE BY BUAGENTS RE A PERJURY CASE IN WHICH HE

END PAGE ONE

55 JUL

6

1961

DocId:32300094

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

WAS POTENTIAL WITNESS. THIS CECOLA DESCRIBED AS FORTY FIVE YEARS OF

AGE, MARRIED WITH THREE CHILDREN. PRETEXT CALLS MADE TO CECOLA

RESIDENCE AND BAR ASCERTAINED THAT CECOLA, AS OF INSTANT DATE, IS

IN CHICAGO. PCI GLADYS EBLE ADVISED INSTANT DATE SHE HAS OBSERVED

DOMINICK BLASI AT ARMORY LOUNGE ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS DURING PAST

WEEK, BUT, HAS NOT OBSERVED GIANCANA. CG SIX FOUR FIVE SEVEN

DASH PC ADVISED INSTANT DATE SHE MADE PRETEXT CALL TO BLASI YESTERDAY,

AND ASCERTAINED THAT GIANCANA IS OUT OF TOWN, WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN

TO INFORMANT. INVESTIGATION CONTINUING. ARMED AND DANCEROUS LI)

DocId: 32300094

Page

---

