# docid-32291312-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

: 124-10207-10088

RECORD SERIES: • HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-29-687

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/29/1963

CIP, GAMBLING, RACK AND SUBV, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/08/1999

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

34

---

## Page 2

2PD-36(Rex-12-13-56)

0,

FBI

Date:

7/29/63

Transmit the following in -

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

SAC, MIAMI (92-515) (P)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

VM 836-PCI has advised that Puccini's Restaurant,

located at 991 N. E. 79th St., Miami, Fla. and operated for

the past two seasons, has cancelled its lease and disposed of

its equipment and will not reopen in the fall. The restaurant

has been operated by ROCCO and JOE FISCHETTI (92-140; 92-99).

The informant has confirmed the fact that the building was

leased by FISCHETTI for ten years and still had eight years to

run. The restaurant was operated through a front known as the

Lee and Mary Corporation.

The restaurant has operated at a

financial loss since it

has opened.

On 7/23/63, MN 865-PC advised that THOMAS

(92-410) continues to be out of the Miami area and it is

reported that ALTAMURA plans to move from Miami to take up

permanent residence in California.

Balloto, nove tron iran, to take up ,

PCI DAVID A. RUSSELL OR 7/23/63 advised that LESLIE

KLand BUSE (92-749), Chicago hoodlun and gambler, passed through

"en route from Chicago to Santo Domingo, D. R. KRUSE

reportedly will continue negotiations in connection with the

operation of a gambling casino in the Paz Hotel, Santo Domingo.

MM 877-C* has advised that State Attorney RICHARD

GERSTEIN is a stockholder in the L. F. Popell Co., Inc. of

Miami. This company is presently being investigated by the

Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for misrepresentation

of its financial status and the fraudulent sale at

securities.

- Bureau (AM)

REG- 45

- Miami

121-681

FUs: mgw

(5)

1 JUL 31 1963

3

tain it al

Approved:

Sent

M

---

