# docid-32423686

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/16/201

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

OSD

195-10005-10003

MCNAMARA PAPERS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

OSD

THE PLAN FOR DIA, THE WEAKNESSES OF THE OLD SYSTEM, THE ADVANTAGES OF THE

NEW, AND THE INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES TO BE LEFT IN THE SERVICES

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/00/1962

7

US INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY - FUNCTIONS AND

RESPONSIBILITIES

DOCUMENT.TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Reviewed by JCS/DIA. McNamara Papers, Box 112, DIA and DOD org. OSD paper re: US

intelligence activities, the creation of DIA and its functions and responsibilities.

v9.1

DocId: 32423686

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TOP SECA

S2U.21

occur in the various military intelligence headquarters organi-

sations of the military departments here in Washington, D. C.

The principal administrative and procedural changes attendant

to the establishment of the DIA will be reflected in the develop-

ment of over-all DoD plans, programe, and procedures for

intelligence activities.

In the course of the preliminary studies and research which

led to the establishment of DIA, certain areas of intelligence activity

were identified as being subjecta requiring special analysis either

because of their close relationship to non-intelligence DoD activities

o because of their having been identified as being areas of intelligence

activity in which the role of DIA had to be very carefully delineated.

These were:

-DIN

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

Mapping and charting.

Counterintelligence and clandestine operations.

Attaches and MAAG" [I]

Specialized or joint intelligence training.

Technical intelligence.

6

1UF SZONCI

DocId: 32423686 Page 2

AAA 037A1T-I1T

---

