# docid-32401336

## Page 1

Date: 11/29/99

Page:

1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10302-10028

JFK-MISC

CIA-DI FILES

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 55355 Date:

04-05-2018

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

CIA

TINTE: THE PRESIDENT'S INTEILIGENCE CHECKLESI/20-30 NOV 1963

(11 REPORTS)

DATE :

PAGES

SUBJECTS

11/00/63

163

PIC

UNIT INDEX

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS:

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/23/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : JEK-M-02: F3 1998.09.23.14:48:30: 013120: ARRB REQUEST.

CIA-9.

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

14 55355

DooId: 32401336

Page

1

---

## Page 2

20 L

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 2

20 NOVEMBER 1963

-HOP SECRET

---

## Page 3

1.

Iraq-Syria

CIB

a .

Although sporadic gunfire

continued through the night in Bagh-

dad, the army is in control.

b. Arif has plans to announce

the make-up of his cabinet today.

It will probably contain some "mild"

Baathists.

He permitted Syrian strong-

man Hafiz and Michel Aflag, the

founder of the Baath Party, who were

caught in Baghdad by the coup, to

fly back to Damascus yesterday after

the Syrian radio suddenly stopped

vilifying the newest Iragi regime.

d.

Arif and his colleagues

obviously hope to reach an under-

standing with the Syrian regime.

We

doubt very much if they are interested,

however, in the

meaningful political

and military unity the previous re-

gime was aiming for.

ÜEK Act 6 (1) (B)

he pentar

For The President Only - Top Secret

55355

DooId: 32401336

page

3

---

## Page 4

2.

Venezuela

/JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

3.

South Vietnam

earlier fren that as elease had

liable of the generals' group, is

trying to use his position as security

minister to build hirself an independ-

ent political base.

(Cont ' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

4

---

## Page 5

02513

b.

He has been visiting provin-

cial cities to "explain" the military

takeover and receive expressions of

loyalty.

He has continued to spread

the idea that the coup was largely

his own doing.

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

4. France-Israel

- (Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

55355

Doc1d:32401336

Page

---

## Page 6

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

5.

Bgypt

JFK Aet6 (1) (B)

a.

Pamphlets and posters

bitterly lampooning Nasir,

espe-

cially for his involvement in Yemen

and Algeria, have appeared on the

streets of Cairo and Suez.

b. Such public expression of

anti-Nasir sentiment is highly

unusual.

c. It is still in a very low

key, however, and there is no sign

of organized opposition.

d. We do not consider Nasir

to be in any immediate danger of

overthrow, though he could be forced

to modify unpopular policies if the

discontent spreads.

For The President Only - Top Secret

55355

DocId:32401336

Page

---

## Page 7

* 09 82.

6. Bolivia

a.

The return last week of

Vice President Lechin, who has been

on ice as Bolivia's ambassador in

Rome, will heat things up in La Paz.

b.

The city has already wit-

nessed

four minor demonstrations

which Embassy La Paz attributes to

left-wingers

encouraged by Lechin's

presence•

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

7.

Cambodia

JFK Act 6(1)(B).

Sihanouk may have finally

painted himself into a corner on US

aid.

b. He has followed up yester-

day's emotional public renunciation

with an official request to our embassy

for talks on the subject.

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

55355

DooId: 32401336

Page

---

## Page 8

JEK Act 6

(1) (B)

C.

We

are always reluctant to

predict just what Sihanouk

will do

next, but he may hope, perhaps ex-

pect, that the US will press him to

retain some of our aid, even on his

terms.

For The President Only - Top Secret

55355

DocId:32401336

Page

8

---

## Page 9

NOTES

A.

Congo

Adola

+55.1740

WilT finally announce this morning the expulsion of

all personnel of the Soviet and Czech embassies.

This move has been hanging fire ever since security

officials turned up evidence several weeks ago im-

plicating personnel of these embassies in antigovern-

ment activities.

B.

USSR

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

C.

D.

Sino-Soviet

Peiping has been quick to exploit the

opening provided by Barghoorn's release. To the

Chinese this affair is an object lesson in how

Khrushchev knuckles under to US pressure without

getting a thing in return.

so desse don

USSR-Cuba

The five passenger ships we mentioned in

last Thursday's Checklist have docked and departed.

Some of them brought in rotational troops and all of

them took out Soviet personnel. He cannot strike a

firm balance on the basis of the evidence we now have,

but it is possible that as many Soviets went out as

came in.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

55355

DocId:32401336

Page

9

---

## Page 10

E.. Czechoslovakia-Mali

JER Act 6(1) (B)

F.

G.

Japan

Ikeda

does not appear to be in any particular

"trouble in tomorrow's elections. The long-range trend

toward the left in popular vote will probably be ap-

parent, but Ikeda's Liberal Democratic Party should

retain

a safe majority in the next Diet.

The leftists

have tried to turn rising prices and last week's twin

disasters into election ammunition, but without

marked success.

Er ;

Indonesia

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

H. Israel

JFK Act

6 (1) (B)

5n45.

I.

Brazil!

A new round of army promotions and shifts

In command are duel

Anti-

Goulart elements

ranks will be further thinned. Congeni-

tal plotters

on the far right are talking coup

Act

6 (1) (B)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

10

---

## Page 11

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

11

21 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 12

1. Iraq

2. Indonesia

a.

The new 21-man cabinet ap-

pears to be a coalition of Arab

nationalist elements including four

members of the moderate wing of the

Baath

Party. The regime is still

dominated by the military, with eight

cabinet posts.

The new prime minister,

Tahir Yahya, is sympathetic to the

Baath Party, and both the Baathists

and the Egyptians feel they can

trust him.

The political affiliation

of eight of the new ministers is

the

not known, but the key interior post

hands of an anti-Baathist

nationalist.

a. Defense Minister Nasution

has been ordered by Sukarno to make

conciliatory statements on Halaysia

while on his trip abroad.

b. The Dutch charge who re-

ported this explained that Nasution

was chosen for this job because

Sukarno was irritated with the ultra-

tough line the defense minister has

taken.

(Cont ' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DooId:32401336 Page 12

---

## Page 13

c.

The chargé has no informa-

tion on the motives behind this

switch. Our embassy thinks it may

be a move to pave the way for explora-

tory talks by Foreign Minister Suband-

rio at Bangkok with his Thai and

Philippine counterparts. It may also

be meant to provide a

more recep-

tive attitude for Nasution's visit

here.

d. Our embassy thinks Nasution

went in for his Malaysia sabre rat-

tling on Sukarno's orders, or at

the very least, with the president's

tacit support.

Sukarno may feel

Nasution has stolen some of his

thunder.

3.

Congo

Adoula still did not get

around to announcing the expulsion

of all Soviet and Czech embassy per-

sonnel yesterday. However, his

people managed on Tuesday afternoon

to corral and hog-tie the Soviet

counselor and press attaché before

they could eat-up all the incrimin-

ating papers in their possession.

b.

The Russians are now being

held at Ndolo prison.

The Congolese

surete says the seized papers include,

among other things, minutes of a

"liberation committee" meeting of op-

position politicians in Brazzaville,

and a document showing Soviet pay-

ments to this group.

(Cont ' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

13

---

## Page 14

-

4.

Ethiopia-

Congo

1!'

-

The Belgian ambassador

thinks these papers are probably

genuine. He says the Russians have

made the mistake of underrating the

Congolese and have stumbled into a

surete trap.

d. The Congolese

also picked

up two

• Czech diplomats but have since

released them.

This morning they

arrested the correspondent of the

Soviet news agency.

Haile Selassie is planning

to withdraw all Ethiopian troops

from the Congo in January,

b. The two battalions of

Ethiopians provide the guts of the

UN operation.

They had been slated

to stay until June and are likely to

be very difficult to replace.

C. The Emperor reportedly

ordered the withdrawal on grounds

that the troops are urgently needed

in Ethiopia, particularly in view

of the Soviet military accord with

Somalia.

d. Our ambassador has asked

as well as the

prime minister and

to see the turerod foreign minister,

to press for reconsideration.

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336 Page 14

---

## Page 15

5.

Yemen

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

6. Turkey

a. The opposition Justice

Party, heir of the old Menderes re-

gime,

appears to have won a victory

in Sunday's nationwide local elec-

tions on the basis of incomplete re-

turns.

b. The collapse of Prime Min-

ister Inonu's coalition government

appears increasingly likely.

Though

a new coalition may be formed, there

will be considerable resistance to

the retention of Inonu as prime min-

ister.

(Cont'd).

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

15

---

## Page 16

C .

Justice Party members will

be putting on pressure for early

national parliamentary elections.

However their party leaders do not

believe the Turkish military, which

ousted Menderes in 1960, would per-

mit them to take over if they won

new elections.

d. They will probably try to

work out some rapprochement with the

armed forces.

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 16

---

## Page 17

A.

D.

NOTES

Cuba

The U-2 which flew yesterday's mission over

Cuba crashed while returning, about 40 miles north

of Key West. Air and sea rescue craft were sent to

the scene.

An air rescue unit sighted an unopened

parachute, a life raft, and oil slick in the crash

area.

The pilot is presumed lost.

There is no in-

dication that the plane was attacked.

Berlin Local East German troops acting without

higher authority appear to have been responsible

for turning high powered searchlights on pilots tak-

ing off from Hest Berlin's Tempelhof airfield on

• 14-16 November. There were five such incidents. A

message of 16 November instructed border guard ele-

ments to discontinue such acts. There have been no

further incidents reported since.

505050422405:00397403732

ALbania-USSR

A Radio Tirana cast as accused

broadcast has accused

"Khrushchev of personally releasing Barghoorn for

fear that Moscow's wheat deal with the US might col-

lapse.

The Albanians are on record as preferring

to eat grass rather than to kowtow to the fest, but

they are not above eating Chinese wheat acquired from

Iran-USSR.

« The Soviet Union's timine seems to be

oft In Tran.

a twin engined plane was shot down in Iranian ter-

Iranian™

The Iranians say that the plane

was on a photographic mission in connection with the

(B)

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 17

---

## Page 18

E.

'=

F.

government's land reform drive.

The pilot was injured

and his two passengers were killed. The incident

comes at a time when Soviet President Brezhner is

visiting Tehran. He addressed a joint session of

parliament today me

Venezuela

Police seem to have restared order in

downtown Caracas, but terrorism contimes elsewhere.

The slum district of Caracas to which the terrorists

retreated is under virtual

martial laz. Among other

things, the Dupont paint warehouse at Maracaibo was

set afire anatotal-yestroyedes

The WPC meeting in Farsaw next

Chinese Connunist delegation, although not intent on

disrupting the conference, plans to attaci the WPC

president's report

SHEAR EPINESS

For The President Only - Top Secret

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 18

---

## Page 19

DOCUMENT OF INTEREST

Debriefing of

Professor Frederick Barghoorn

For The President Chly - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

19

---

## Page 20

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

TO:

3

4

TACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

REMARKS:

DATE INITIALS

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

LINFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. _

COPY _

_ OF.

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO.

DATE

Handle Via

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

4247

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

'AY.

55355

DooId: 32401336

Page

20

---

## Page 21

THE WHITE HOUSE

QUIGOING MESSAG:

WHASA

SNICKET DINAR 23 101.10

CLASSIEICATION

FROM TACO

SINFO

19198

MOF

HW

WHASA FORM D

ATIAN 61

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 21

---

## Page 22

TOP SECRET DINAR

THE PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST--22 NOVEMBER 1963

1.

USSR:

A. "GRIFFON", THE SOVIET ANTIMISSILE DISPLAYED IN THE

7 NOVEMBER MOSCOW PARADE, APPEARS DESIGNED ONLY FOR USE WITHIN

THE ATMOSPHERE•

ÜEK Act 6 (1) (B)

2.

CAMBODIA:

A.

SIHANOUK HAS GIVEN THE FRENCH IN PHNOM PENH FORE-

WARNING THAT HE PLANS TO REVIVE HIS NEUTRALITY GUARANTEE

PROPOSALS.

B. HE WANTS THE TWELVE GENEVA CONFERENCE PARTICIPANTS

TO MEET IN SOME ASIAN CITY; "AT THE GREAT POWERS' EXPENSE, "

TO WORK OUT A NEUTRALITY GUARANTEE DECLARATION.

C. THE FRENCH SAY THEY PLAN TO RESPOND FAVORABLY AND

HOPE WE WILL TOO, LEST SIHANOUK OTHERWISE TAKE THE FINAL IR-

REVOCABLE STEP INTO THE COMMUNIST BLOC.

(CONT * D)

TOP SECRET DINAR

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336 Page 22

---

## Page 23

TOP SECRET DINAR

D. MEANWHILE PEIPING HAS DECLARED IT WOULD GIVE "ALL-

OUT SUPPORT SHOULD CAMBODIA ENCOUNTER ARMED INVASION INSTI-

GATED BY THE US OR ITS VASSALS.".

E.

§ MINISTER OF DEFENSE LON NOL HAS INTINATED

TO GENERAL TABER THAT THE CAMBODIAN MILITARY DOES NOT APPROVE

OF TERMINATION OF US AID. CAMBODIAN MILITARY OFFICERS HAVE

MADE IT PLAIN THAT THE US RETAINS A RESERVOIR OF GOOD WILL

WITHIN THE COUNTRY'S MILITARY.

3. NOTES:

raisein

A. CUBA-US: A PRENSA LATINA ITEM YESTERDAY DATELINED

FBIS 21

NEW YORK, SAYS THE STUDENT COMMITTEE FOR TRAVEL TO CUBA HAS

STARTED ORGANIZING ANOTHER TRIP, HOPEFULLY TO INCLUDE AS

MANY AS 500 STUDENTS THIS TIME. OVER 100 ARE SAID TO HAVE

APPLIED SO FAR.

B. U-2 CRASH: SALVAGE OPERATIONS CONTINUE ON THE

1N66089

MeMO

WRECKAGE OF THE U-2. THERE IS STILL NO TRACE OF THE PILOT,

Lol.

CAPTAIN HYDE, WHO EVIDENTLY EJECTED SOMETIME BEFORE IMPACT.

Anderso

9/321432

C. DENMARK-USSR:

DANISH FOREIGN

MINISTER

"HAEKKERUP,

VISITING KHRUSHCHEV ON THURSDAY, PRESENTED HIM WITH A MADE-

JIN-DENMARK ROCKING CHAIR, EXPRESSING THE HOPE THAT IT WOULD

NOW EE POSSIBLE TO ROCK IN RHYTHM IN BOTH THE KREMLIN AND

THE WHITE HOUSE. APPARENTLY KHRUSHCHEV WILL BE MAKING HIS

SCANDANAVIAN TOUR NEXT SPRING.

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

(CONT ' D)

TOP SECRET DINAR

HH

55355 DocId: 32401336 Page 23

---

## Page 24

TOP SECRET DINAR

D.

JAPAN:

YESTERDAY'S JAPANESE ELECTION DID NOT CHANGE

THE GENERAL BALANCE BETWEEN CONSERVATIVES AND SOCIALISTS IN

THE DIET.

THE SOCIALISTS GAINED A FEW SEATS,

BUT FELL SHORT OF THEIR GOAL OF BREAKING THE "ONE-THIRD

BARRIER."

E. INDONESIA-US: INDONESIAN OFFICIALS ARE LETTING IT

BE KNOWN INDIRECTLY, VIA THE OIL COMPANY REPRESENTATIVES,

THAT SUKARNO MAY WELL HOLD UP SIGNATURE OF THE LAW RATIFYING

OIL CONTRACTS WITH THE BIG THREE UNTIL THE US POSITION ON AID

TO INDONESIA IS "CLARIFIED." US AID THEY SAY WAS PROMISED

BY WILSON WYATT AS PART OF A "PACKAGE DEAL" FOR SETTLING WITH

THE OIL COMPANIES.

TOP SECRET DINAR

HH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 24

---

## Page 25

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

1.

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

55355

DooId: 32401336

Page

25

рле

..

23 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 26

1. South Vietnam

Note for Id Hauck

22NO0

a. Vietnamese Communist ef-

forts to discredit the new Saigon

regine stayed in high gear this

week.

b. The number of armed attacks

was off from the high of the previous

week but still sone 50% above the

year's weekly average.

c. These attacks have been,

for the rost part, small-scale efforts

directed against the government's

paramilitary forces in the villages.

They have been designed more for

their psychological impact than for

innediate nilitary gain.

d. & high volume of nessages

on Viet Cang nilitary and political

communications nets indicates a prob-

able continuation of this effort.

e. The new government is re-

sponding by stepping up its own

military sperations.

It is also

setting about the hard job of re-

vamping tie Diem government apparatus

and harnessing broader popular sup-

port for the sar effort.

I.

The generals have been

dealing fairly effectively with

(Cont 'd)

For The Fresident Only - Top Secret

NH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 26

---

## Page 27

TENERIEN

COLOMBIA

VENEZUELA

te diamet

BREZIL

HH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

27

"El Tigro

TRINIDAD

BRITISH

GULANA

BRAZIL

630030

---

## Page 28

2. Venezuela

a frustrat

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

their new responsibilities.

There

are, however, a few signs of dissen-

sion within this group and between

it and civilian politicians.

g. One of the more ambitious

and troublesome figures is the able

but opportunistic General Ton That

Dinh, the new Minister of Security.

He has been travelling about the

country spreading the idea that the

coup was largely his doing and seems

bent on developing his own independ-

ent base of power. He is a man to

watch.

h.

The new regine has also

embarked on a purge of high military

officers who sided with Diem during

the Buddhist crisis and failed to

get on the right side soon enough.

(INTERCEPTS)

... *2.

a.

The death toll from the

terrorist outburst in Caracas last

Tuesday and Wednesday now stands at

about 30.

b.. This is the high water mark

thus far in the campaign of the

Castro-supported Comnunist extremists

to disrupt the national elections a

week from tomorrow.

(Cont ' d)

For The President Only - Top Secre:

HH 55355

DooId:32401336 Page 28

---

## Page 29

JEK. Act 6 (1) (B)

C.

The Betancourt government

nas struck back hard. Its new uni-

fled command over the security forces,

passed this

initial test with flying colors.

d. At least 500 extremists

were arrested and the round-up is

still going on.

Their removal will

hamper the Communist drive against

elections in major cities like Caracas.

e. We now expect the elections

to be held on schedule, a consider-

able achievement under

the circum-

вот а, поже

The elections will be fol-

lowed, however, by a Communist ef-

fort to prevent the March inaugura-

tion of the victor.

f. The rub here is that none

of the presidential candidates com-

mands President Betancourt's con-

siderable assets for dealing success-

fully with the harsh realities of

Venezuelan politics.

The constitu-

tion prevents Betancourt from suc-

ceeding himself.

g. In the background, as

always, looms the military, which

could intervene if the president-

elect shows signs of being soft on

communism.

18:

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

29

---

## Page 30

CUBA

Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) Sites

NA EAST

Mariel

Artemis

Remediose

SAN JULIAN

(Training site)

Isie of Pines

-... Holguin

•Santiago de Cuba. •

-_US_ Naval Base

New site

Unchanged site

Estimated range

30

NAUTICAL MILES

100

34095

11 OCTOBER 1OB9

SECRET

HH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

30

---

## Page 31

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

3.

USSR-Cuba

3D 0357

22N00

Ocl

Mil Dio helites

aaron

note

Briefing

21 Noo

Cuban me itary I

In the past week

that Cuban interpreters are now

posted at several surface-to-air

sile (SAH) sites on the island.

b. He think thia

on-site traini

on schedale.

last sis month

SAY system nay

Castro.

c.

In th

1,500 Soviets !

of these were i

sent to monitor

NIH

3

d.

PriOr

had detected no

hundred Soviet i

entering Cuba s:

(21/.cr

crisis last yea!

e. Ne estime cuat at least

15,000, and probably closer to

18,000, have been withdrawn in the

intervening 13 nonths, leaving, very

roughly, 4,000 to 7,000. Those re-

maining are for the nost part ad-

visors whose main functions are to

train and supervise Cubans in the

use of weapons turned over to them.

(Cont'd)

For The Presideni Oriy - Tos Sere:

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 31

---

## Page 32

Sch 4g

UNICATION ROUTES BETWEEN

WEST GERMANY AND BERLIN

= Stratsund

Schwanheide

lernacin

Fachen

Stendai

Oepisfeia:

Prenzlau.

Liebenwaide

Wriezen

, BE

BAST

BERLIN

ZONE

Jueterbog

PL LAND

Cottbus®

EDERAL

REPUBLIC

Lassel

OF GERMANY

ranklu

AWartha

Gerstungen

Probstzeila B

Ludwigstaut

~ Toepet

. tot

CZECHOSLOVAKIA

- Rai-cad

• Autobahn

Road

Canal

Air Corridor

Erzol Points for

Allied Traffic:

A Soviet

d Allied

Interzonal Border Crossing Points:

1 East

• West

UNGLASSIFER

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336 Page 32

CA L

---

## Page 33

1. All Soviet weapons intro-

cuces Into Cuba last year have been

dithiram or turned over to the

Cubais. The only significant excep-

tion is the SAM system.

(Includes INTERCEPTS)

4. Berlin

a. We have had an indication

that Soviet harassment of Allied ac-

cess routes to Hest Berlin will shift

this weekend to the air corridors.

C. B subreac

b. The Soviet man at the Ber-

~lin sir traffic control center told

the illied representatives yesterday

that soviet transports would be using

the sir corridors for brief flights

dring the next five weekends.

C. Moscow has tried on a num-

ber of past occasions to assert its

right to restrict Allied use of the

zIr cortIdorS. In early 1962, the

Soviets attempted to reserve "blocks"

of air space for their own use. They

Lave since demanded that Western

fligits stay between stipulated al-

situtes, that we file flight plans

In aivance and provide prior notice

of barder-crossing times.

(Cont'd)

For The Fresident Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DooId:32401336

Page

33

---

## Page 34

This sort of harassment

stopped in the spring of 1962 when

Soviet leaders became convinced

that the US was interested in a

serious discussion of a Berlin settle-

ment. Moscow may hope that the

threat of more of this sort of har-

assment will jog the US into talks

on Berlin.

5.

Irag-Syria-

UAR

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

(Cont 'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336 Page 34

---

## Page 35

JFK Aet 6 (1) (B)

For The President Only - Top Secret

55355

DooId:32401336

Page 35

---

## Page 36

JEK. Act 6 (1) (B)

•: 33741

HH 55355

DocId:32401336

Page

36

2 2 5677

•etant iedeilei.

DINAR

---

## Page 37

NOTES

A.

USSR

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

20N00

B.

TOCS

3/565,591

zIN00

C.

Congo-USSR

Soviet embassy personnel have not yet

left Leopoldville, but their departure is expected

momentarily.

They were ordered out of the country

after the Congolese turned up good documentary evi-

dence of their complicity in anti-government plots.

a letter from an anti-Adoula leader

in Brazzaville asking for funds

Britain

The Labor Party scored again in the Dundee

Hest by-erection Thursday, increasing Its 1959

majority of 719 to a thumping 4,955.

Heartened by

this, Labor is now pushing for general elections at

once.

Prime Minister Home is not likely to accede.

60-A3,184

==No

clue

8 Nor

(Cont ' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HW 55355

DocId: 32401336 Page 37

---

## Page 38

SOVIET EARTH SATELLITE VEHICLES - COSMOS SERUES

-1.9:62.34.9.60.

JFK. Act 6 (1) (B)

05 :

333.05

DooId: 32401336

Page

38

---

## Page 39

E.

Thailand

F.

USSR

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HW 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 39

---

## Page 40

JFK..Act 6 (1) (B)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HW 55355

DooId: 32401336

Page 40

---

## Page 41

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

For The Presiden: Oniy - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 47

---

## Page 42

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

For The President Oniy - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 42

---

## Page 43

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

TO:

1

2

3

4

DATE

INITIALS

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

IINFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO..

COPY

OF

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO.

DATE

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336 Page 43

---

## Page 44

yes,

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

24 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

33335

Doc1d:32401336

Page 44

---

## Page 45

1.

North Vietnam -

South Vietnam

S/s Vitinue 623

1N66678

Saigon 1068

75 Paris 2506

a. North Vietnamese leaders

are pressing their campaign for neu-

tralization of South Vietnam.

b. They can count on Cambodia's

support. Prince Sihanouk has said

be believes neutralization of South

vietnam to be the only way to keer

his country and the rest of the area

from falling eventually into Commu-

nist hands.

the Laotian National Assembly that

the French were urging him to sup-

port Hanoi in this.

d.

Moreover, according to one

of our clandestine sources, the North

Vietnamese have talked Souvanna into

backing the neutralization proposi-

e.

The troublesome Polish ICC

delegate in Laos, Marek Thee (who

will be going home soon), has just

returned to Vientiane from Hanoi and

is trying, with somewhat less suc-

cess, to enlist British support too.

(Cont' d)

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 45

---

## Page 46

isuie.e

iwi ora Giand

Cao Banp°

PMw:

.0.,

s.rm

LaShauie

o pracona 5aio

longle (.

PAONG SALY

BURMA

Narnitid.

-r.r

VINTHA BBGSI

o MunnE sã.

LAVE PRIOIDO

• Sam Neuso

"T, HOV'A CHAY

Bac non ;

"Ning-ming

NOIRTH

Lane sono

yon Bay g

Thal Nguyen

VIEINAt pmuLane Truong

MANO, O'

a has Bron

ouong

• Ouaiphong

iLE CAC de

pu LYo: O Narr Oinh

c hg ạn Bin gi

Cay

iLt De dE and

poiyenei e-

Thanh H02"

Sayaboury,

Muang Nan?

Khouang

KHOUANG

Зал o-

- rawane?

"VIENTANE

iCua Rao

denno.

• Lüm

• _.OHla Tonh

Yong Khai

Ouetaragit

Udon Thanii

•xoisx

KHAMMQUANE

Nnomimärath

Nahnon shanoni

nakten

CAP MUI MOM

Dan Saio-

iuang rusanuoh

AIL A

Muang Sakon Naknonó

N

D

Mukdaran.

°seño'"".

Muora enesane po io s 50 ie ia ina

javannakhel

Quane"

SAVANNAKHET

SOUTH

LAOS

Muang

oYasothon

SARAWANNE

VIETNAM

Thatenk

Internat-onal ooundary

Province boundary

National capital

Province capital

Raiirc id

Road

Track or trail

50

iee M.ies

75 100 K.lomaiers

UNCLASSIFIEDJ

Auáng Ubong.

Warin

Chamrar

S:e Panse

CHAMPASSAN

Altapeu

ATTOPELi

-- i eo khom?

-QBANGKOK /)

So Pratan,

Samut-oGhachoengsao

Ban

Aranyapratne

nil

artt ny.

AM BODIA

Burs

i suer -

"ni

:04

Stung Treng t

Bondories nd noner ane sa oncrnerity ie

HH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 46

---

## Page 47

2.

Laos

f. As part of the same campaign,

the North Vietnamese have told the

French they believe sentiment is

growing in the US for withdrawal of

Us forces.

They reportedly plan to

keep

the heat on to encourage it.

g.

Hanoi is at the same time

trying quietly to encourage the belief

that it is ready to be reasonable.

h. To hear Thee tell it, North

Vietnamese leaders feel that neutral-

ity for South Vietnam and eventual

reunification is the only way they,

too, can escape from Peiping's clutches.

As is usual in Laos, the

tentative agreement for a cease-fire

•eached last week between Kong I

nd Pathet Lao commander Singkap

came to naught.

b. Each side accuses the other

of planning to use a cease-fire to

screen preparations for larger at-

tacks.

c.

There is scattered fighting

in the

Plaine des Jarres.

Lao Army,

neutralist, and leo guerrilla ele-

ments are jointly engaged in a

limited offensive in the Vang Vieng

Hello g the Bolde this i i'"

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

47

---

## Page 48

3.

Cambodia

area north of Vientiane on Route 13.

They hope to gain control of that

town and its small airfield.

d. We have been anticipating

an expansion of the fighting with

the recent advent of the dry

season.

a. Sihanouk knows his actions

against us have increased his vul-

nerability to the Communist bloc, and

he is looking to the French to bail

him out.

JFK Aet 6 (1) (B)

He apparently hopes that

the availability of french aid will

enable him to keep his balance with

the Communists and fend off their

d. The French have told our

Embassy in Paris that plans are

afoot for French Defense Minister

Messmer to go to Cambodia in January.

(Contid)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

48

---

## Page 49

YEMEN

Khamis Mushoit.

SAUB/ ARABIA

IRAO

U. A.A.

(RGYPT)

Ros Banas

SAUDI

jiddo

'.Mocco

'Taif

Qizon

Al Muwassam

• Maydi

SUDAN

Khortoum

Riyadh*

ARABIA

Sono

YEMEN

ETHIOPIA

*ddis Ababo

Marib

KAMARAN

(U.K.)

Suwah

hagnah

rea of Recent

Glashes

RED

SEA

Mocha

OF ADEN

ETHIOPIA

FR.

SOM.

630827

UNCLASSIFIED HOS

20-120

HH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Paue

49

---

## Page 50

4.

Yemen-Egypt

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

Sihanouk's actions toward

the Us have not been universally

popular.

This is particularly true

among government officials, the bus-

iness community (who have reason to

fear stepped-up nationalization),

and the military, where the US re-

tains a considerable reservoir of

goodwill.

1. Indications are that Si-

hanouk will try to win fuller sup-

port by creating new feuds with

neighboring South Vietnam and Thai-

land.

This is a gambit he has used

to advantage in past difficulties.

t....,.??

A number of Yemeni leaders

have told us they want the Egyptians

to get out of the remen. They want

to be left alone to solve their own

....

b. This is especially true

of those Sheikhs with large tribal

followings.

c. A general uprising against

the Egyptians is not likely at the

moment, but the longer they remain,

the greater the possibility of major

pro-government tribes deserting to

the royalists.

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

55355. DocId: 32101336

Page

50

---

## Page 51

PARTY COMPOSITION OF THE ITALIAN PARLIAMENT

OCTOBER 1963

SOCIAL

DEMOCRATS.

REPUBL

33

CHAMBER

OF

DEPUTIES

SOCIALISTS

87

DE

COMMUNIST

LIBERALS

39

680

4 OTHERS

8: MONARCHISTS

27 NEO-

FASCISTS

SOCIAL DEMOCRATS 14

SENATE

SOCIALISTS

44

CRISTIAN DEMOCRATS

3 OTHERS

COMMUNIS

183

LIBERALS

19

315

2 MONARCHISTS

15 NEO-

FASCISTS

d3110. 41

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

51

---

## Page 52

19275002

Nasir, with some 30,000

troops in the Yemen, has grudgingly

promised to pull out 5,000 before

the end of the year.

So far there

has been no sign he is preparing to

do so.

5. Italy

JEK Act 6(1)(B)

a.

The Christian Democrats

and Socialists have finally reached

an' agreement on cabinet assignments

and a program for a "centerleft"

coalition government.

b. Negotiations were especially

tough, but apparently President

Kennedy's death acted

as

to bring the two together.

a catalyst y

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

52

---

## Page 53

ago regis

JER Act 6 (1)(B)

d. With Moro premier, Nenni

«1ll probably become vice-premier.

Saragat, who is pro-US and pro-NATO,

is most likely to be named Foreign

Minister.

телет", Ф,"" ГаНд. сіr.,

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

53

---

## Page 54

NOTES

JEK ACt 6 (1) (B)

B.

><.

ror

21 Nor

weeka 46

15 Nir

5901999 1i

India-USSR

Feels that the Russians are dragging their feet in

the matter of military assistance for India. Mean-

while, we have a revort (not vet confirmed) from

that

has decided

to look to us

herea ier or lighter aircrafte

USSR i Our Embassy in Moscow has gotten word of

strikes recently at Ryazan, near Moscow, and ir

Leningrad.

The cause of the Ryazan incident is not

clear, but bread shortages apparently were behind

the Leningrad strikes.

similar disturbances were

reported last month from several points in southern

Russia.

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

54

---

## Page 55

PIC 25 NoV

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

TO:

1

2

3

4

CLA/ IPC

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

DATE

INITIALS

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

N15 94-484 (#3)

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. [SC-NTJ-083/93 B]

1

COPY

_ OF

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO.

David C. Hunphrey/LBJ Library

DATE

6/23/93

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document@will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

FALTANT

RATES

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336 Page 55

MUTATIC

---

## Page 56

IBI LIERARY

Mandatory Review

Case # NEY 93-381

Document # 3

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

25 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

HH 55355

DooId: 32401336

Page

56

---

## Page 57

Manita®

BURMA

THAILAND

MALAYSIA ¿

Kuala gompur.

south

China .

Seu .

BRUNEI-

Sarawok p

Saboti

come die?!

o SUMATRA:

SINGAPORE

RI AU

ISLANDS'"

'D 0

dut'e

_Diakarta

BORNEO

11711.0

STIMOR

1(%.1.1

i

631124

MALAYSIA

CONFIDENTIAL

MILES

34176

1000

AUSTRALIA

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

57

---

## Page 58

:.::.

1. South Vietnam

2.

Vietnamese Communist forces

kept up their high post-coup level

of

activity over the weekend.

b. The most significant action

was an attack early yesterday morn-

ing against a US special forces train-

ing camp some 30 miles from Saigon.

c.

When the smoke cleared after

a sharp fight, four US soldiers were

missing and at least 35 South Vietnamese

were dead.

d. Late yesterday morning, the

Viet Cong shot down two aircraft sup-

porting a government operation in

the extreme south, and damaged twelve

more.

Two more Americans are missing

in this action.

e.

Back in Saigon, the new re-

gime's

troubles with the ambitious

General Ton That Dinh continue.

f. He is still angling to get

control of the important strategic

hamlet program and has yet to give

up command of the Third Corps, which

the generals assigned to another of

their number earlier in the month.

This corps is of particular signifi-

cance in that it surrounds Saigon.

For The President Only - Top Secret

55355

DooId: 32401336

page

58

---

## Page 59

72

COLOMBIA

Anuar.

"El Cordón

°Coro

Maracaico °

•camas e

Barquisimato

El o cuanare

Felipe.

San Carios

le los torros

El Crinero.

Cúcuta di

n Fernando

-

COLOMBIA

"Puerto Ayacucho *:

VENEZUELA

6309195

die prometers

2CE Mites

BRAZIL

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

59

CREMADA

(U.K.I

TOBAGO

• O la Asunción

cordeans.

TRINIDAD

o Maturin

Tucusita

•El Tiere

Ordir

BRITISH

GUIANA

BRAZIL

¿L' MA. GULANA

---

## Page 60

'?:'

183A1

2773

2.

Indonesia-

Malaysia

e Somcaoosinia Rerenido. o.

;ciri're

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

3.

Venezuela

'.in

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId:32401336 Page

60

H7203 279833

(Cont'd)

---

## Page 61

• :

JER ACE 6 (11+BJ

4.

Iraq

5.

Syria

a.

The air of tension in Bagh-

dad dissipated somewhat after the

government lifted the curfew and once

again permitted private vehicles on

the streets.

b. Neither the city nor its

new rulers are, however, at ease.

Troops are still very much in evi-

dence. ,

c. The new regime apparently

is not convinced that the hard core

of the Baath Party and its paramili-

tary supporters have been put down

for good.

a .

We have information that a

showdown between the moderate and

extremist factions of the ruling

Baath Party in Syria is fast approach-

ing.

3*3-

(Cont 'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 61

---

## Page 62

1.

i .

10 290404444456 490

b.

Prime Minister Hafiz as the

leading figure on the side of modera-

tion.

General Umran heads the doc-

trinaire extremists.

c.

It was a split along the

same lines that brought about the

Baath Party's

fall from power in

Iraq.

6.

Italy

a. Premier-designate Moro ex-

pects

that the program for a "center-

left" coalition government will be

approved today by the four parties

involved.

JFK Act 6(1(BJ

c .

After the program has been

approved, the final selection of a

cabinet can be undertaken. This

could take the rest of the week.

to tile de to de, distan?.

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 62

---

## Page 63

Abho

Zahran

Qizan

Maydi

Horad

•Abs

Hajjah

CAMARAN

Al Hudaydah

Mocho

ETHIOPIA

FRENCH

SOMALILAND

"CAIRO

JORDAN

UAR

(EGYPT)

Asman.

Ras

Banas

SAUDI

ARABIA

", Noiron

"Sadah

Major road

- - Oiner rond or track

UNCLASSIFIED

Umran

Roudha

Marib

Sirwah

SANA

Jihannah

Marib

Ibb!

Calabah

¡Al Baydo.

TAIZZ

Ad Dali

ADEN PROTECTORATE;

ADEN

IRAQ

KUWAIT

NEUTRAL.

ZONE

Medina:

Yenbo®

1edds.

"PIYADM

SAUDI

ARABIA

here.

Knamis Mushail

ETHIOPIA

SANA.

Marlo, "o

Al Mudaydan"

STATUTE.

idll.

A1 8ay80.

ADEN PROTECTORATE

"ЛОЕМ

100

6308013

YEMEN

55355

DooId: 32401336

Page

63

---

## Page 64

-...

-

i--

7.

UAR-Yemen-

Egypt

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

64

---

## Page 65

..

NOTES

A. Oswald

Press stories to the effect that Lee Harvey

Oswald recently visited Mexico City are true, accord-

ing to our information.

Oswald visited both

• the

cuban and the Soviet embassies on 28 September. He

was

trying,

we are told, to arrange for visas so

that he could travel to

• the USSR via Havana. He

returned to the US on 3 October.

B. Brazil A new round of military promotions and

assignments will be made public today. The present

instability of the Brazilian political scene is re-

flected in the numerous reports of coup plots which

this event has precipitated.

C.

USSR

strumentation shins

Soviet range, in-

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

D.

Algeria

We have a report from a good clandestine

source that a group of army officers is plotting

with Defense Minister Boumedienne to overthrow Sen

Bella. A growing estrangement between the two has

been apparent for some time, but this is the firs

good indication that Boumedienne is making commor

cause with those who wish to turn Ben Bella out of

office.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId:32401336

Page 65

---

## Page 66

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

E.

Australia - Communist China

Peiping has

signed con-

*tracts for just over one milTion tons of Australian

grain to be delivered early next year. He had been

expecting the Chinese Communists to enter the market,

since they had another mediocre grain crop this year.

Peiping has been buying close to five million tons

of grain for the past several years.

F. * Congo

the Soviet Embassy in Leopold-

Ville-had booked 75 places on a flight to Brussels

information on-

Whether

any Soviet Embassy officials have actually

departed, however.

G.

Berlin

There was no new harassment of Allied ac-

pcess routes to Berlin over the weekend. A total of

16 flares were fired last evening near Tempelhof

Airfleld, but we connect these with Communist ef-

forts to prevent escapes from East Berlin.

East

German police were observed stringing barbed wire

in the same area a short time later.

timin

E. Laos

The neutralists claim to have made significant

gains in their limited offensive in the Vang Vieng

area.

They have not, however, been able to dislodge.

the Pathet Lao from positions

within artillery range

of the town's airport.

narrat

4 BIE--2 95077

For The President Only - Top Secret

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

66

---

## Page 67

26 Mov

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

TO:

1

2

3

4

CIA/ IPC

DATE

INITIALS

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

NIJ 94-494 (#4)

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. [SC-NZ.J-084/93 BI

1

COPY

OF.

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO.

David C. Hunphrey/LBJ Library

DATE

6/23/93

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

55355- DocId

37401396 Page 677

FATTIES

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

+17V72;

---

## Page 68

LB; LIBRARI

Mandalory Review,

Case # N1I 93-381

Document: 4

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

553JJ

DooId: 32401336

Page

168

26 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 69

Fa: E?6"

1. Irag-Syria

JFK.Act 6 (1) (B)

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

69

(P, 2000)

---

## Page 70

SECRET

Luang Prabang

•.i"

• Muong Khao

Ban Ban: t

Phou Khoun

Muong Kheung

c' Ban Song Hoc

YOUr NINH

Phou Keng •

Muong Phanh• ocs

Lat Houang

Nong Pet

Hang Khay

hong Savan

ông Danh :

Xieng Khouang

Nong Het

Muong Kassy

Ban Ta Viang

Tha Thom

Vang Vieng

Ban Namone

Ban Hin Heup

Pak Sane

THAILAND

SECRET

- Road

- - Track or trail

LAOS

THAILAND

VIENTIANE

Nong Khai

34247

6311 25

SECRET

HH 55355 DocId: 32401336 Page

70

NORTH

VIETNAM

ill-ties

---

## Page 71

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

2.

Laos

a.

govern-

ment forces had finally secured Vang

Vieng and its airfield, long held

by the Pathet Lao.

also

_the capture of Ban Namone farther

south on Route 13.

b. The neutralist, rightist Lao

Army, and Meo tribal guerrilla forces

hope to sustain their coordinated

clearing action until remaining Pathet

Lao pockets in this area north of

Vientiane are cleared.

Such operations in Laos

have often been followed by a Com-

munist riposte.

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

*(Coat'a)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HW 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

71

---

## Page 72

JFK Act 6(1)(B.)

3.

South Vietnam

a.

According to press reports,

Viet Cong attacks on Sunday wiped

out two of the government's strategic

hamlets in the central highlands about

250 miles north of

Saigon.

More than 1,000 inhabitants

in the hamlets--who are minority

tribesmen--are missing and possibly

have fled into the mountains.

They

abandoned a significant quantity of

weapons to the Viet Cong.

c. These attacks not only sug-

gest continued erosion of the govern-

ment's programs to win over tribal

support, but also signal that stepped-.

up Viet Cong pressure against the new

regime is spreading to the north.

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

72

---

## Page 73

ÜEK..Act 6 (1) (B)

azcnseieee srin cen gcit 2ocouens0e wecedwer ad/e

T.S:"..

11H 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 73

---

## Page 74

5.

USSR-Berlin

5533J

DooId: 32401336

Page

74

JFK Aet 6 (1) (B)

a .

Embassy Bonn feels that

the Soviet Union may be seeking at

least a temporary modus vivendi on

the autobahn without prejudicing

its juridical position, which can

be used to cause difficulties there

in the future.

b.

The embassy bases this on

the Soviet replies to the Western

notification to the USSR on 29

October regarding harmonized convoy

procedures--two oral statements on

16 November and

a note of 21 Novem-

ber.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Sacrat

---

## Page 75

ГЕТ МОТ.

C. The Soviet note was designed

to make a record, showing that the

USSR exercises "control" of the auto-

bahn and that the recent incidents

resulted from US refusal to comply

with

"existing procedures."

d. On the other hand, the Soviet

procedures described in the oral re-

plies seem to reflect actual Allied

practices, though there is enough

ambiguity to afford the USSR flexi-

bility in any future actions.

6.

Brazil

a.

The danger of an immediate

coup against the Goulart regime has

receded with the reported decision

of Second Army Commander General

Bevilaqua not to join the coup plot-

ters.

JFK Act 6 (1)(B.)

b. Bevilaqua

may have

been asked to hand over

his command

Trents made by President Goulart to

as part of a series of reassign-

keep the military off balance.

c. On the other side of the

coin, there is widespread belief

that

Goulart himself will at some

time resort to a coup to establish

an authoritarian regime.

T. 200240121

For The President Only - Top Secrat

(Cont' d)

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

7.5

---

## Page 76

... =

id: "

cide...

oiia:

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

GoulartL

J seems either out

of touch with reality or very poorly

informed. Public opinion is not

with him and the tradition that po-

litical power should only be trans-

ferred constitutionally is very

strong in the army, coup reports

notwithstanding.

f. The biggest danger from

this quarter is that the opposition

may resort to some illegal act, giv-

ing Goulart the excuse to take over.

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

76

---

## Page 77

• i

NOTES

A.

Ethiopia-Congo

Haile Selassie has acceded to our

ambassador g request and is rescinding his earlier

decision to withdraw the 1,743-man Ethiopian con-

tingent from the UN force in the Congo.

B.

Communist China -

JFK Act

6 (1) (B)

c.

Indonesia-Philippines

President Sukarno

plans to go to Manila this

Thursday to confer with Philippine President Macapagal.

No reasons have been advanced for the visit.

Our

chargé guesses that it is an Indonesian move to head

Off Philippine recognition of Malaysia.

D.

Venezuela'" The terrorists have struck again, this

time firing six US-owned oil and gas pipelines near

the northeastern city of Puerto la Cruz.

The elec-

tions are still on for Sunday, and we look for a maxi-

mum effort from the pro-Castro terrorist organization.

"Congo"!" We now have word that 49 members of the Soviet

Boy Sobassy,

including dependents, left Leopoldville on

'5:1

Saturday aboard a Sabena flight for Brussels. They

are expected to book onward passage for Moscow.

It is

I reported

that the Congolese will allow one Russian

without diplomatic status to stay to look after Soviet

i property.

ixi:

For The Presicent Orly - Too Secret

HH 55355 DocId: 32401336

Page 77

---

## Page 78

d. This Communist effort is

aimed at discrediting the post-Diem

regime before the new leadership is

able to get its feet on the ground

and capture the loyalty and respect

of people in the provinces.

e. Although the Viet Cong still

continues to draw its main strength

from local recruiting, a steady stream

of cadre and training personnel con-

tinues to make its way to the south

from North Vietnam along the Laotian

border.

f. We are now reasonably sure

that at least 784 persons infiltrated

from the north during 1963 and the

actual total may be much higher.

4.

USSR

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

b. We probably should have had

by now an announcement closing an area

roughly 500 miles south of Johnston

Island to shipping.

He suspect the

Soviets may have delayed it in order

not to appear to be rattling rockets

immediately after President Kennedy's

death.

(Cont 'd)

• For The Presiden: Only - Top Sacret

HIH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

78

---

## Page 79

4.

USSR

Open this,

paraprosible

NW 55355 DooId: 32401336

Page 79

d. This Communist effort is

and capture the royalty and respect

o1 people in the provinces.

Although the Viet Cong still

continues to draw its main strength

from locan recruiting, a steady stream

of cadre and, training personnel con-

tinues to make its way to the south

from North Vietnam along the Laotian

f.

We are now reasonably sure

that at least 784 persons, infiltrated

from the north during 1963 and the

actual total may be much higher

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

b.

49274977

We probably

should have had

by now an announcement closing an area

roughly 500 miles south of Johnston

Island to shipping.

Soviets may have delayed it in order

not to appear to be rattling rockets:

immediately after President Kennedy's

death.

(Cont 'd)

for the President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 80

22 Nov

TO:

2

3

4

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

CIA/ IPC

DATE INITIALS

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

NLT 94-474 (#5)

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN.

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. _[SC-NI.J-085/93 B]

1

COPY _

OF.

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO.

David C. Hunphrey LBJ Library

DATE

6/23/93

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

55355

Docia:32401336

Page

80

---

## Page 81

%..

{

Documentes

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

27 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 81

---

## Page 82

ritw!

SECRET

SECRET

HAYANAg

Kriün

ISLE OF PINES

CUBA

Cen„Nr Bry

_.2si bare

• SAM SITE

mAvried meas igo

631126 6

SECRET

....:: :

HH 55355

x.ud oeidedd

..

DocId: 32401336 Page 82

÷3 id

---

## Page 83

JEK. Act 6 (1) (B)

HW 55355

-.-.

DooId: 32401336

-.:

Page 83

---

## Page 84

water'!!

Parated terr

I ..

1.

Cuba

NSAS

a. Cuban tents are now begin-

ning to appear at a number of the

SAM sites--further evidence that

training of Cubans in operation of

SAM equipment has begun as scheduled.

b.. High-altitude photography

• taken this past weekend

shows these

tents at six SAM sites in western

Cuba. These sites are in addition

to those at which we noted the pres-

ence

Of Cuban interpreters as we-

reported on Saturday.

C.

This training should be com-

pleted by next May or June.

d.

Just before the training

started, we noted a series of moves

involving the relocation of eight of

the SAM sites.

The purpose, it appears,

las to shift the mission of the sys-

em from an area defense of the

I specific tarrets, particularly

-avana.

2.

Syria-Iraq

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

84

---

## Page 85

setto densato idratazionid in laio dicono and sdato sa beni sta

JEK Act

6

(1) (B)

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

85

---

## Page 86

I:..

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

3.

Turkey

a.

coalition

collapse.

government is about to

b.

It has long been shaky.

Last week it was dealt a severe set-

back when the opposition

emerged from local elections

as

the

country's majority party.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336 Page

86

---

## Page 87

r.:..'....d.

4.

USSR wheat

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

po.iii.

cargoe

C.

Now the Peasant Party, one

of the three in the coalition,

has

oted to puls out, and probably wil

do so as soon as

gets back fro

Washington. Another partner, the

Turkey Party, has wanted to pull out.

JEK ACE 6 TI(B)

d. A new coalition is at least

a theoretical possibility, with a

number of independents taking the

place of the Peasant Party, but

Inonu probably would not be prime

minister.

e.

The military are working

for an all-party coalition.

This

way, they feel, they could

keep

tabs on the Justice Party, but the

Justice Party is not likely to buy

this arrangement.

I. As matters now stand, the

military would take over the govern-

ment itself before it would let the

Justice Party form one.

2=

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

the decision to buy wheat abroad

was taken to avoid lowering reserves,

which he has described as ample for

one or two years.

We think the sit-

uation is more serious than that.

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 88

.=-

i..-

an lon tion tiee lan Dod baö lee latd Case id

109124005

b. This year's harvest was

clearly very bad. The weight of

evidence suggests that Soviet grain

stockpiles have been far drawn down

this year and are not sufficient to

protect the country from another

poor harvest.

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

otqneedeEei dirondi ii

s ocoser rosir eaui iit mce

(Cont'd)

Fo! The President Only - Top Secret

HH

55355

DocId:32401336

Page

88

---

## Page 89

at meet me excace die bota

5.

Communist

China -

Argentina

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

For The President Only - Top Secret

33305

DooId: 32401336

Page

89

---

## Page 90

0.:.E.

6.

Czechoslovakia

USSR

330127

VRAVE 65735V

a .

Czech President and party

boss Novotny has gone to Moscow,

evidently for economic talks, judg-

ing by the composition of his dele-

gation.

b. Novotny's background of

Stalinist excesses have put him on

the wrong side of Khrushchev. They

also have given rise to control

problems, particularly in the frac-

tious Slovak party where pressures

for liberalization have made their

mark.

C .

Party problems and Novotny's

leadership may thus also come under

review.

Novas a ca

A curious sign of the times

is the fact that, although president

Novotny is in Moscow, the presidential

flag has remained up

at the official

residence.

It might simply have been

an oversight, but the symbolism will

not be lost to the people in Prague.

7. Cambodia

.?)

a.

Cambodia, as expected, has

asked the Geneva co-chairman to call

the Geneva conference participants

together (in Djakarta) to discuss

measures "to ensure the internation-

ally

guaranteed and controlled neu-

tralization of Cambodia."

i ain'

(Cont 'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DooId:32401336

Page

90

---

## Page 91

Khamis

SAUDLARABIA:

U. A.R.

Ras Banas

Qizan

"Al Muwassani

• Maydit

*DEMILITARIZED ZONE

rad™

Washho

Hajjoh

•Sadah.

• Rayda:

Umran

SUDAN

*Khartoum

SAUDI

Riyadh*

jiddo

•Mocca

Taif

ARABIA

Sona

vEMEN

ETHIOPIA

Addis Ababo

KAMARAN

(U.K.) i

RED

SEA

Er

Ni Hudaydah

, Marib

Sirwah.

. Jihannoh

Harib

MAIE

.N

. Dhamar

Qatabah

BAYHAN

STATE

Bayda

Mocha

ETHIOPIA

FR.

SOM.

33905

DEN

OF ADE.V

SO MILES

13 SEPTEMBER 1063

HH

55355

DocId: 32401336 Page

91

---

## Page 92

1::

Doo.

b. Last year when this came

up, the

were inclined to go

along with some such idea.

C.

They have indicated to us

that they still feel Sihanouk should

not be turned down, and Sihanouk is

obviously hopeful that they will

exert pressure I

d.

Sihanouk seems to be hoping

for at least a rump session attended

by conferees who are willing to do

8.

Egypt-Yemen

JER Act 6 (1) (B)

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336 Page 92

---

## Page 93

9.

Congo

a.

Opposition leftist Congo-

lese exiles, operating from Brazza-

ville across the river,

are reported

to be plotting to assassinate Congo-

lese Premier Adoula and some of his

ministers.

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

d. Adoula's government already.

knows that this group of left-wing

subversives, which now numbers about

50, is being helped by the Communist

bloc.

e. It operates fairly freely

in the loose circumstances which now

obtain in Brazzaville.. Its activities

may soon become a serious source of

friction between the two countries.

* 39

For The President Only - Top Secret

SCNLT-085/93 Al:)

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

93

---

## Page 94

E72 02 FIX ES 03 E24 86 C.006 002

NOTES

A.

B.

C.

South Korea

With 85 percent of the vote in, Pak

" Chong-hui'S Derocratic Republican Party has already

won an absolute majority in the National Assembly

elections held yesterday.

Venezuela

"The country's three major presidential

candidates were the targets of unsuccessful assassi-

nation attempts yesterday as Communist-led terror-

ists moved into the final week of desperate attempt

to wreck next Sunday's elections. A US Embassy-of-

ficial was also the intended recipient of a "Christ-

mas package" containing a bomb. Yesterday a Us

rubber warehouse was set

afire and destroyed by

terrorists.

S: CoNaDhe.2E1/ser7

Indonesia-Philippines

ÜER Act 6 (1) (B)

D.

E.

Indonesia-Malaysia Indonesian-inspired press re-

ports yesterday. claimed a British military plane

was shot down near the North Borneo border.

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

Cuba

The alert In the cuban military which we

noted immediately after President Kennedy's death

has been lifted.

(INTERCEPT)

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

94

---

## Page 95

BECA

F.

ambodia

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

G.

USSR-US Pravda this morning reports on Gromyko's

w talks with President Johnson, giving top play

Senator Fulbright's remarks about the desirability

of a meeting between the President and Khrushchev.

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

95

---

## Page 96

23. 26366328220620

DOCUMENTS OF INTEREST

JEK Act 6 (1)(B)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HW 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

96

---

## Page 97

to Core

. .

1. Cuba

12

a. Cuban tents are now begin-

ning to appear at a number of the

SAM sites--further evidence that

training of Cubans in operation of

SAM equipment has begun as scheduled.

High-altitude photography

taken this past weekend shows these

tents at six SAl sites in western

Cuba.

These sites are in addition

to those at which we noted the pres-

ence of Cuban interpreters as we

reported on Saturday.

This training should be com-

pleted by next May or June.

d.

Just before the training

started, we meted a series of moves

involving the relocation of eight of

the SAM sites.

The purpose, it appears,

was to shift the mission of the sys-

from an area defense of the

island as a whole to point defense

of specific targets, particularly

Havana.

2.

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336 Page

97

---

## Page 98

biLi

FRES

NOTES

5

A.

B.

c.

South Korea

With 85 percent of the vote in, Pak

Chong-hui's Derocratic Republican Party has already

won an absolute majority in the National Assembly -

elections held yesterday.

Vere zue la

The country's three major presidential

cardidates were the targets of unsuccessful assassi-

ated ants esterday a to esterate arteme

to wreck nest Sunday's elections. A US Embassy of-

ficial was also the intended /recipient of a "Christ-

mas package" containing a bomb.

Yesterday a US

rubber warehouse was set afire

and destroyed by

terrorists:

Indopesia-Philippines

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

D.

Indonesia-Malaysia

-Idonesian-inspired press re-

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

E.

Cuba

The alert in the Cuban military which wo

noted immediatély after President Kennedy's death

has been lifted. (INTERCEPT)

NSP

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355 DocId: 32401336 Page

98

---

## Page 99

8115T

ROUTING

• NAME AND ADDRESS

TO:

1

2

3

4

DATE INITIALS

CIA/ IPC

163375

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

NIJ 94.484 (46)

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

OISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. [SC-NI~-088/93 B]

COPY

_ OF

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO.

David C. Hunphrey/LBJ Library

DATE

6/23/93

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

55355

DocId: 32401336 /Page 99

---

## Page 100

i... .

L.

Mandatory Revien

Case # NL593-30L

Document # &

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

President

Read

during brefer,

oy me love

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

(

28 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

(5C-N25-088/93 B34}

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

100

---

## Page 101

OFFICIAL USE ONLY

CURIOS

вон не

COLOMBI

Amua

CULTU DE

VENEZUELA

•CARIBBEAN SEA

recaibe®

• Grande

° Maturd

Giudad Bonvar

BRITISH

GUIANA

COLOMBIA

VENEZUELA

• Selected railroad

BRAZI

34163 10-63

250 Krometers

BRAZIL

68

3.

(SC-NLT-088/93 61)

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336 Page

101

---

## Page 102

"it is.

=.

...=.

1.

Venezuela

The country's six presiden-

tial candidates have swung into the

home stretch of their campaigns.

So have the terrorists, who are still

trying hard to sabotage next Sunday's

vote.

b. There is little doubt that

the terrorist effort has all-out

Cuban support.

Castro looks on

Venezuela as

his prime target in

Latin America and would do everything

in his power to prevent President

Betancourt from finishing his term.

c.

so far, the terrorists have

tried to intimidate the candidates

by harassing political rallies, bomb-

ing their party headquarters in

various

cities,

and threatening them

with assassination. They have tried

to scare voters from the polls by

creating a general atmosphere of

law-

lessness. Kidnappings, like the one

yesterday morning of Colonel Chenault,

are part of the pattern.

d. The government counterattack

is under the personal direction of

Betancourt, who is as determined to

finish out his term and turn over

power to a freely-elected successor

as Castro is to prevent this.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

(SC-115-088/93 6113

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

102

---

## Page 103

:.

• .

e.

Yesterday it was announced

that the carrying of firearms by

anyone outside the security forces

was forbidden until the elections

are over.

f.

Some 3,000 reservists have

been called up to protect the polls.

Leaves are being cancelled and all

security forces are maintaining a

high state of alert.

2":

2.

South Vietnam

a.

We now have a fuller ac-

count from official US sources of

the Viet Cong attack on two mountain

villages mentioned in Tuesday's

Checklist.

b. This account makes it clear

that the earlier press versions,

which spoke of 1,000 missing vil-

lagers, were highly colored.

C .

Our present information

is that the attack, in company

strength, was successfully repulsed.

Cong suffered some 30 cas-

ualties; government losses were six

killed, three wounded and 39 missing.

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

(56-N15-088193 BiD

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

103

---

## Page 104

d. As is usual in these cases,

the villagers began to trickle back

once the Viet Cong left.

e. This episode aside, we see

• a number of indications that the

Communists will try to sustain the

-higher level of military activity

they have kept up since the coup.

f.

The Communist radio has

called for more attacks in an effort

to destroy strategic hamlets and

"develop" Viet Cong forces. In sup-

• port of this, Viet Cong communica-

has been unusually

heavy and has involved a large vol-

ume of high priority traffic and

special alert patterns.

(Includes INTERCEPTS)

3.

Israel

'destina

JFK Act 6 (1)(B.).

(Cont ' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

104

---

## Page 105

SAntas

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

USSR-India

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

(5CN45-088/93-811)

HH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 105

---

## Page 106

JFK ACt 6(1+(B)

5.

Burma

a .

Ne Win has followed up his

action in breaking off talks with

the Burmese Communists by arresting

over 700 of

their number.

b. Ne Win had been trying to

lure the faction-ridden Communists

into a "national front." However,

he found the demands of the Commu-

nist negotiators, some of whom bad

only just returned from long exile

in Peiping, to be impossible.

c. This will probably lead to

renewed fighting between the army

and Communist guerrillas in the hills.

d.

More trouble can also be

expected from the rebellious ethnic

minorities like the Karens and the

(Cont ' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

(5C-N27-085143 /6l1)

NH 55355 DocId:32401336 Page 106

---

## Page 107

NORTHA

_VIETNAM

South Vietnam

Quang Tri

Hue

Da Nang

ya quang Nam

LAOS

. Quang Ngai

THAILAND

M B

DIA

PHNOM PENH

Tay

Ninh

& Chau Phu

My Tho

-Can Tho

GULF OF

SIAM

Quan Long.

(Ca Mao)

..-"Bac Lieu

Loc Ninh

Phưoc Vinh

UGON

"Yung Tau

"Kontum

Pleiku •

An Khe®

Cheo Reo"

'Ban Me Thuot

Da Lat

_ Phan Thiet

¿Qui Nhon

• Song au

Tuy Hoa

Nha Trang

"Phan Rang

SOUTH

CHINA

SEN

_STATUTE MILES 190 34235

73:17.

}

....

."."

(SC-NCT-O58/93 Bl1)

NH 55355 DocId:32401336 Page 107

---

## Page 108

6. Cambodia

7.

Greece

471:350

HH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 108

.i....

=..:

Kachins, whose demands for greater

autonomy have been rejected in Ran-

доод.

e.

US officials on the spot

doubt that the army, hobbled by poor

leadership and its many political

responsibilities, will be any more

effective in dealing with the prob-

lem this time than in past anti-

insurgency campaigns.

JER ACt 6 (1) (B)

a. It looks more and more as

1f Papandreou, who squeaked through

to a narrow upset victory over ex-

premier Karamanlis in the 3 November

elections, will not be able to form

& government.

. (Cont 'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

(SC-NL5-058/93 BlI)

---

## Page 109

b. His party does not have a

parliamentary majority, so he needs

support from either Karamanlis'

party on

the right or from the com-

munists.

JER ACt 6 (1) (B)

c .

The military has

let

it be known that it would consider

Papandreou's acceptance of Communist

support as sufficient reason for a

coup. d'etat.

d.

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

Should Papandreou fail to

form a government, the palace intends

to pass the mandate to Karamanlis,

believing that he too would fail.

e

This would then open the

way,

for a

compromise premier more amenable to

palace influence.

8.

Brazil

a .

President Goulart and his

opponents are keeping political ten-

sions in Brazil high.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top. Secret

(56-1125-088193 BiD

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

109

---

## Page 110

.::

SAFe WIT

b.

Comments by Goulart, that

"social disaster" is sure if his

program is not passed soon, have drawn

sharp rejoinders from moderate and

conservative figures and have fed

rightist coup plotting.

c.

Strains are also growing in

the military following the arrest

of a young officer who refused last

month to execute an order to arrest

tive spokesman

tover spokesmenda, a leading conserva-

.m..:

For The President Only - Top Secret

(5C-N45-088/93917

33305

DooId: 32401336

Page

110

---

## Page 111

NOTES

A.

USSR

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

B. Rumania-US: Rumanian officials are about to award

a US fIrm, Ferguson and Company of Clevelana, Ohio,

a $32 million contract to help build the huge Galati

steel plant. The Rumanians are pressing ahead with

this project in the face of Soviet efforts to dis-

courage it in various ways, most importantly by re-

fusing to underwrite the scheme to any substantial

degree.

С. „ Гигкеу

The New Turkey Party has followed the

Peasant Party in withdrawing from the present three-

party coalition government.. This means that the

coalition has to all intents and purposes collapsed,

even though no formal action will be taken until

Prime Minister Inonu returns from Washington this

weekend.

D.

Thailand

Sarit

JFK. Act 6 (1) (B)

is

in

critical

condition.

the

most likely successor would be Thanom Kittikachorn,

now deputy prime minister and minister of defense

• .

worc0s.o8215 352F"

For The President Only - Top Secret

(Cont' d)

(SC-NLJ-088/93 B1i)

HH 55355

DooId:32401336

Page 111

---

## Page 112

MOROCCO

ALGERLA

LIBYA

UAR

(EGYPT)

MAURITANIA

GAMBIN

PORT. JUI

QUINEA

SIERR,

LEON

UTTEX VOLTA

ПОЛНОМЕТ

MORY

госо

NIGERIA

COAST GHANA

NIGER

1 ром

OAsON

CABIN

CHAD

SUDAN

CENTRAL AFRICA!

REPUbLIC

REPUBLIC

OF THE CONCO

ANGOLI

0.0r

AND NYASA

SOUTH- WESTECHUANALANO

AFRICA

ETHIOPIA

KENYA

c1o04

INVIKA AZANZIBAR

mas

MOZAMBIQUE

MILANO.

REPUBLIC

. OF

EASUTOLANO

SOUTH AFRICA

R. SOMAL.

SOMALI

REPUBLIC

RWANDA BURUNDI

MALAGASY

REFUSLIC

7

•"...s.

TSC- N15-088/95 Bl3

HH 55355

DocId:32401336

Page

112

---

## Page 113

E.

Indonesia-Philippines

JEK- Act 6 (1) (B)

G.

н.

Indonesia Djakarta is giving every indication that

It will hold up final action on the long-pending oil

contracts with US companies in an attempt to smoke

us out on the question of US aid policy toward Indo-

nesia.

Rwanda-Burundi

Tribal refugees from Rwanda, now in

Burundi, seem bent on making trouble between

the two

countries.

Some 3,000 of their number were reported

yesterday to be moving toward the frontier. They

have little military capability, but blood could

flow and reguire UN intervention.

USSR-Congo

JER Act 6 (1) (B)

For The President Only - Top Secret

(56-1925-085/93 Bl

HH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

113

---

## Page 114

r.-

that the carrying of firearms by

Yesterday it was announced

anyone outside the security forces

was forbidden until the elections

are over.

f. Some 3,000 reservists have

been called up to protecte the polls.

Leaves are being cancelled and all

security forces are maintaining a

state of alert.

3/г

2.

South

etnam

+

a.

ne now have a fuller ac-

count from

official US sources of

the Viet Cons attack on two mountain

villages mentioned in Tuesday's

Checklist.

b. This accountsmakes it clear

that the earlier press

-versions,

which spoke of 1,000 missing vil-

Lagers,

were highly colored.

Our present information

is that the attack, in company

strength, was successfully repulsed

The Viet

Cong suffered some 30 cas-

ualties; government losses were six

killed, three wounded and 39 missing.

(Cont'd)

(5c-N45-088/93 BiD

ITH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

114

---

## Page 115

5

d. As is usual in these cases,

the villagers began to trickle back

once the Viet Cong left.

e.

we see

the

communists will try to sustain the

- higher"level of military activity

they have kept up since the coup.

The Communist radio has

special alert patterns.

(Includes INTERCEPTS)

3.

Israel

JEK Act 6(1)(B)

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 115

(5-N45-088193 BlIS

---

## Page 116

NOTES

USSR

NSA

bracketed

maturad

217

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

c.

D.

1

Rumania- US

Rumanian officials are about to, awarc

a US fIrm,

Ferguson and Company of Cleveland, Ohio,

a $32 mil

on contract to help build the huge Galat:

steel plant.

The rumanians are pressing ahead witl

this project

the face of Soviet efforts to dis-

courage it in various ways, most importantly by re-

fusing to underwrite the scheme to any substantial

degree

The New Turkey

Party

Peasant Party in withdrawing from the present three-

party coalition government.

coalition has to all intents

and purposes collapsed,

even though no formal action win

Prime Minister Inony returns from

Washington this

weekend.

Thailand

critical condition.

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

Sarit

1s

in

the

most likely successor would be Tharom KIttikachorn,

now deputy prime minister and minister of defense

Thanow is not. likely to last long, however, since he

strong personality nor a figure of great

weight in the military hierarchy.

(Cont ' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

(SC-NLJ-088/93 Bi)

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

116

---

## Page 117

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

TO:

1

2

3

4

DATE INITIALS

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. -

COPY.

OF

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO.

DATE

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

117

---

## Page 118

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

.-

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

118

file

29 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 119

JFK. Act 6 (1) (B)

TOP SECRET

DINAR:

• 6311 28 2

HH 55355 DocId: 32401336

Page 119

---

## Page 120

1.

USSR

that die Use

a. TASS has finally announced

that the USSR will conduct another

series of ICBM firings to the Pacific

during the period 2 December to 25

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336 Page

120

---

## Page 121

2

JEK..Act 6 (1) (B)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355 DocId: 32401336

Page 121

---

## Page 122

3.

of National Liberation (FALN) will

probably increase their efforts to

disrupt the constitutional succession,

which would be the first in Venezuela's

history.

f. Meanwhile, in the wings are

l, the military leaders who may well

sibili,

'intervene if they find Betancourt's

successor not to their liking.

TICS

rivers 624

.

Though President Betancourt

has taken personal charge of the

search to locate Colonel Chenault

and those responsible for his kid-

napping, his efforts so far have

come to nought.

The only news has

been from a Caracas editor who had

a call yesterday morning from a

woman saying the colonel was safe.

Cuba-

Venezuela

CiB

The discovery of a large

cache of weapons of Cuban

origin,

announced by Venezuelan authorities

yesterday, provides the best evidence

to date of major Cuban support for

Latin American subversives.

b. There is definite proof

to support the Venezuelan claim.

The three tons of weapons found

in-

clude light automatic rifles and

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355 DocId:32401336 Page 122

---

## Page 123

submachine guns identified as among

those shipped to Cuba from Belgium

in 1959 and 1960. There were also

mortars, bazookas, recoilless rifles,

and ammunition of US manufacture.

Communist documents seized

by Venezuelan authorities earlier

this month reveal that the equipment

was destined for the Venezuelan

Communists' paramilitary arm, the

Armed Forces of National Liberation

(FALN) •

d. The cache was found on 1

November on a beach in Falcon State

in the north, scene of the most

active guerrilla effort.

The Vene-

zuelan government assumes that the

weapons were sent from Cuba by sea.

e..

Caracas will lay formal

charges concerning the arms cache

before a special meeting of Latin

America Foreign Ministers scheduled

for December.. After that it will

ask that the Council of the Organi-

zation of American States be con-

voked for consultation on the matter.

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336 Page

123

---

## Page 124

- - -

4.

Communist

China -

Afro-Asia

Barin

JFK Act & f1)(B.)

5. Cuba

:104%

a. Another London shipping

firm says it is willing to abandon

its Cuban trade.

b.

Embassy London has been ad-

vised by Papadakis and Co., Ltd.

De!

chuckst

charters run out next January.

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 124

---

## Page 125

PEASADED

c. Papadakis is probably ask-

ing the same price for its action as

Basil Mavrolean did recently--removal

of its ships from the US blacklist.

Papadakis operates 19 ships totalling

more than 200,000 tons.

d. Mavrolean's vessels account

for almost half the present British

tonnage calling at Cuban ports

are the largest single element of

free world shipping to Cuba.

e. The outcome of Mavrolean's

offer is not yet clear.

For The President Only - Top Secret

HW 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 125

---

## Page 126

A.

CIS

B.

NOTES

it island

South Korea

President-elect Pak Chong-hui's suc-

In winning control of the unicameral legisla-

ture in Tuesday's elections improves prospects for

smooth operation of the new constitutional govern-

ment.

However, political stability will still de-

pend on Pak's willingness to rule with moderation.

If he interprets this victory as a popular mandate

to pursue an aggressive authoritarian program, he

could provoke serious unrest.

Indonesia-Philippines

President Sukarno's visit

to Manila is on again for 4 December,

He assumes

its

purpose is to head off Philippine recognition of

Malaysia.

Thailand Prime Minister Sarit appears to have

taken a further turn for the worst.

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

C.

TDCSOB

3/658/113

R13

D.

A:20192000044

Rwanda-Burundi

Prompt action by Burundi security

forces appears to have halted the march of tribal

refugees on Rwanda

There is little doubt that the retugees, who carried

only a handful of modern arms and were poorly organ-

ized, would have been badly mauled by Rwandan troops

wif they had crossed the frontier.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 126

---

## Page 127

E.

SEA SESSILARA -14

Pro-Castro members of the

terrorist

at tonal La beration Army (EIN) are believed respon-

„sible

for the recent

wave of bombings in Colombia's

major cities.

At least a

dozen bombs were set off

in Bogota during the last two nights.

Two of the

bombs

failed to explode after being placed close to

the residence of the chief of US Naval Mission

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH

55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

127

---

## Page 128

PIC 30 NOS G.

ROUTING

TO:

NAME AND ADDRESS

1

CIA/ IPC

2

3

4

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

DATE INITIALS

NLJ 94-484

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

(#8)

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. LSC-NLJ-089/93 BI

COPY

OF.

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO.

David C. Hunphrey LBJ Library

DATE

6/23/93

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

5535537700I15

01336-Pager128

---

## Page 129

LET LIBRANY.

Vacuatory Revier

CaSE # NLy 13-381

Document # &

imamatin

1..

E. I.

Ret i ton

'Ms. Kchert.

12/10/63

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

30 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

55355

DooId: 32401336

Page

129

---

## Page 130

-".

!..

i.

1. Venezuela

a.

Election campaigning ended

at midnight, but boosters for the

several candidates continued to mill

about streets of Caracas in defiance

of terrorist threats to shoot anyone

Who ventured out for the next three

days.

b.

The terrorists, it seems,

were all but drowned out by the car-

nival air.

c.

The Falin, meanwhile, is

trying to bargain

oft Colonel

Chenault

for as high a price as it can, de-

manding variously release of all its

comrades, of all women detained by

the government, and of the six hi-

jackers. who have been returned from

Trinidad to custody in Venezuela.

2.

Sino-soviet!

dispute

a .

The Chinese Communists

will have nothing to do with the

idea of bilateral talks with the

Soviets under present circumstances

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 130

---

## Page 131

S7205

':

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page 131

13.302A01288

s5k deshas

d.

Moscow, for its part, has

apparently stopped thinking about

-another gathering of world Communist

party representatives.

e. The feelers it put out

after the conclusion of the test-

ban treaty were received coldly by

some of the fraternal parties. They

felt such a meeting could only make

matters worse with the Chinese.

Indeed, Peiping saw this

to be Moscow's purpose, and when

the idea failed to take hold, the

Chinese took it to be a setback for

Khrushchev personally.

g.

Their reaction to Khrush-

chev's subsequent call for a cessa-

tion of open argument was to press

the offensive, and this they have

been doing in roundly abusive terms

since.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

''"!

•i-.i..:.

---

## Page 132

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

ar; ter? i

HH 55355

DocId:32101336

Page 132

---

## Page 133

h. The forthcoming Afro-Asian

visits by Chou En-lai and Chen Yi

have awakened suspicions that the

Chinese are in hot pursuit of a

second Bandung-type conference--a

more rewarding enterprise from their

point of view.

3. USSR

open

"Ballistic

missiles"

orty

4

4.

Kenya -

Communist Bloc

a.

The Soviet I

gain

an important pre

in Nairobi, communic:

East Africa.

Plans are fc

controlled news agenc

by the Kenyan government when it

KARENISH

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336 Page

133

---

## Page 134

ida.'-de

223295

achieves independence on 12 Decem-

ber.

This will fall under the juris-

diction of communications minister

Oneko, who has well developed con-

tacts within the Soviet Bloc.

c. TASS has already agreed to

equip the new agency, and Kenyan re-

quests for further financial and

techincal help are being discussed

in Prague and Moscow.

d. Kenyan journalists have

been training in Prague and, on re-

turn, will find ready employment in

the new agency.

5.

Czechoslovakia-

USSR

a .

Czech President Novotny

returned from Moscow on Thursday

after signing a renewal (for another

20 years) of the treaty of friend-

ship and mutual assistance.

b. He apparently got little

else out of Khrushchev. The final

communique was conspicuously cool.

C.

There were no Soviet con-

cessions, nor were there the usual

references to Czech "progress" or

to public support for Novotny's

leadership.

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH

55355

DocId:32401336

Page

134

---

## Page 135

t..

i.. -

5..-

falliso

6.

South Vietnam

874227 2201-333920e*yn0ed

a. The first suicide by burn-

ing to occur under the new regime

was witnessed today by bystanders

at a crowded intersection in Saigon

where a young girl went up in flames.

b. A note she left behind said

she was protesting the war of Viet-

namese against Vietnamese.

At the

intersection are three villas which

house the ICC delegations.

C. There were no Buddhist

overtones.

d. Some think the Viet Cong

encouraged her, but if they did,

they did not write her script.

They

would have said it is the Americans

who are fighting the Vietnamese.

..

and i separationicano

For The President Only - Top Secret

НЫ 55355

DooId:32401336

Page

135

---

## Page 136

NORTH

CHINA

South Vietnam

ARMY CORPS BOUNDARIES

Quang Tri

Hue

THAILAND

C

A

PHNOM PENH®

Chạu Phu

- IV Corps:

"Iste de

• Ptu Quoc Rach Gia

Gl.'I.F

S/.4.1'

OF

Quan Lorig

(Ca Maus

LAOS

?Da Nang

Quadg Nam

'I Córps

.Quang Ngai

Il Corps

Kontum

-'Pleiku •

An Khe®

B

DIA

Cheo Reo"!

*- Qui Nhon

• Song Cau

Tuy Hoa

Ban Me Thuat

-._.- Nna Trang

IIl Corps „Da lat

Loc Ninh

Tay

Ninh !

- "Phan Rang

• Phuọc Vịnh

SOL'THI

~ Cho

Lonestacon

"Phan Thiet

CHIN#

My Tho

inli Capital Military District

:Vung Tau

SEN

scạn Thểc ci

•Bac Lieu

SECRET

STATUTE MILES .. 150

35732

HW 55355

DocId:32401336 Page 136

---

## Page 137

•*..

Prey the

A.

B.

C.

NOTES

South Vietnam

Plans are now afoot to shuffle

South Vietnam's Corps commanders so that General

Khanh, considered by General Harkins to be the best

of the lot, will take over in the crucial delta (IV

Corps)

area.

General Dinh, the ambitious Minister

of Security, is still resisting pressure to relin-

uish command of the III Corps area, and is not in-

volved in the current shuffle.

Cuba-USSR

There are about 8,000 Soviets in Cuba,

5, 000 of these military, according to a bloc offi

cial in close touch with Soviets in Havana.

The

figures are close to our own estimate of 4,000 to

7, 000.

Some withdrawals continue.

Cambodia-Vietnam!

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

D.

Indonesia-Cambodia

(Cont ' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

137

---

## Page 138

93,

(M CD HELM

Ras Fliid

LETS - B

coin sintia-tannin

E.

Coal and Steel Community

Coal and Steel community

"embers at their next"meeting on Monday will prob-

ably vote to raise community steel tariffs by an

average of nine percent.

This would bring the tar-

iffs of each member into line with Italy's, the

highest in the community. Only the Dutch oppose the

idea.

British Guiana - Cuba

G.

Brazil-US

S"* A press report from Rio cites "well in-"

Formed"sources" to

the Sitect that Goulart plans

soon to invite Mrs. Kennedy to visit Brazil so that

Brazil can pay her

the honors which it had planned

to render the late President.

Cuba-Morocco

For The President Only - Top Secret

N# 55355 • DooId: 32401336

Page 138

---

## Page 139

KiE:

FUNG

DOCUMENT OF INTEREST

The effect in France of the President's death.

For The President Only - Top Secret

1477991

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336 Page

139

---

## Page 140

The forthcoming Afro-Asiat

USD

3.

MUSSE

para

JFK ACt 6 (1)(B)

-

4.

Kenya

Comm

st Bloc

..a.

The s

ain an impor

Ln Nairobl, C

East Africa.

Plans

be set up

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HH 55355

DocId: 32401336

Page

140

---

