# docid-32563721

## Page 1

"WEDGAR HOOVER

Federal Bureau of Investigation,

Casted States Department of us.

Washington, I. C.

" The following is the tened of FRI nunber ate:

# 43 - 93

CONTRIBÜTOR

oF

FINGERPRINTS

NAME AND NUMBER

ARRESTED OR

RECEIVED

CHARGE

U.%, Marshal

327aongb,

Gao

Thomas

Der voy

Ferner,

$e7602

= 30114

Ton, Ravy iniforn

Form T-2

Feb. 1, 1945 103-G48

te. stover

Director.

DISPOSITION

5-21 - lage

DrOo

2D, Raäford. Var

Stata Folice,

nest

Trenton, Ho

Thomas.

Hermen

$ 567

Caryey

Thomas harvey

Cranes A56331

der Zeal, it

1: 2145

No Ree: card for

Selective Service.

Becape

committed to Co•Jai

pendin arrival of

danesbure Ref.Ofiis.

NCAMUNCATIONG SCOTLY

MAILED 3

FEB 1 1945 Р.M.

43-

1359

2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LUSTICE

' Represents notations unsupported by fingerprints in FBI files.

FEB

NOTICE: THIS RECORD IS FURNISHED FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

DocId:32563721

Page 1

GPO

16-15190

---

## Page 2

JOHN EDGAR HOOVER

Federal Bureau of'Inbestigation,

Cited States Department of Jus

Washington, I. C.

The following is the record of FBI number 4095251

CONTRIBUTOR OF

FINGERPRINTS

NAME AND NUMBER

ARRESTED

OR

RECEIVED

CHARGE

Form. T-2

• Ee. stoover

Director.

DISPOSITION

FLASH BX BURRAU: AS

thonag Hartsy Hernan, If appre.

prior to

a 11=46.

BFD Savannah,

GRoo refer

to theis flle 143-93.

ber inf, rec, tnerefton 6-74z44

CC: SAC, Savann

CC: Bureau

This contims bureau wire deted 1-31-45.

* Represents notations unsupported by fingerprints in FBI files.

NOTICE: THIS RECORD IS FURNISHED FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

GPO

18-15190

DocId: 32563721

Page 2

---

