# docid-32211705

## Page 1

Date: 08/12/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : WC

RECORD NUMBER : 179-40005-10256

RECORDS SERIES :

08: NUMBERED COMMISSION DOCUMENTS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO

TITLE :

DATE : 03/27/64

PAGES

: 29

SUBJECTS :

DEMOHRENSCHILDT, GEORGE

DEMOHRENSCHILDT, JEANNE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : / /

OPENING CRITERIA :

DUS

COMMENTS :

P. 1-28 PLUS UNNUMBERED

29; BOX F01

..===+

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DocId: 32211705 Page 1

---

## Page 2

WFO 100-1689

JFM: pap

BACKGROUND INFORMATION RE GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT

OBTAINED FROM RECORDS OF OFFICE OF SECURITY,

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF STATE (USDS)

The file of GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT in the office

of Security, USDS, was reviewed on March 5 and 6, 1964.

By letter dated August 16, 1957, Civil Service

Commission (CSC) advised the Office

of security, USDS, that

the International Cooperation Administration (ICA) had

requested CSC to conduct a full field investigation of him

under Public Law 298. CSC in turn requested the Office of

Security to perform overseas investigation regarding

DE MOHRENSCHILDT.

By letter dated October 28, 1957, the Office of

Security forwarded to CSC copies of their reports of

investigation of DE MOHRENSCHILDT conducted in Belgium,

Mexico and Venezuela.

The results of investigation conducted in Belgium

appear in the report of ROGER

STEINKOLK, Security Office,

Bonn, dated September 26, 1957, and covers investigation in

Brussels, Belgium, during

the period September 9 to 26, 1957.

Pertinent details

of that report are as follows:

"A check by a controlled

American source revealed

the following information:

"A usually reliable confidential source - who has

identified subject as GEORGES VON MOHRENSCHILDT, born

April 4, 1911 at Mozyrz,

Union of Soviet Socialist Republics

(USSR) - has furnished

the following report.

"Baron GEORGES VON MOHRENSCHILDT, a journalist of

Polish nationality, lived in Belgium from October 8, 1930 to

July 5, 1938.

He is the son of SERGE and ALEXANDRA, nee

ZAPOLSKI®

His last address here before his departure for

the United States was 84 chaussee de Malines, Antwerp.

12

DocId: 32211705 Page 2

---

## Page 3

WrO 100-1689

2

the

"VON MOHRENSCHILDT was enrolled as a student at

'Institut Superieur de Commerce d'Etat' at Antwerp,

where he is reported to have received a degree in finance

and commercial science in 1933.

He then did journalistic

work for the Polish journal

'Slowo' of wilno, while attend-

ing the Universite de 1'Etat at Liege (faculty of commer-

cial science and economics) where he passed his first

doctorate examination with distinction in 1935. At the same

time he completed his studies at the 'Institut Superieur' of

Antwerp, where he is reported to have obtained a degree in

'sciences consulaires'

"On 4 November 1931 subject was sentenced by the

Tribunal Correctional of Antwerp to 8 days in prison on

charges of resisting a police officer; 182 francs fine or 8

days imprisonment on charges of drunkenness and use of a

false name.

Sentence was

suspended pending completion of a

3-year

probationary period.

"Subject did not engage in politics."

The results of investigation conducted in Mexico

appear in the report of KENNETH W. KNAUF, dated October 21,

195? at Mexico, and covers investigation conducted in

September and October, 1957.

Pertinent

details of that report are as follows:

"George Sergius VON MOHRENSCHILDT entered Mexico through

the port of Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas on June 5, 1941 under a

six month visa.

His visa and immigration card

wEre No.

F-5-14 No. 543125 dated June 5, 1941.

"The record further shows that he is of Polish

nationality (1941) and he came to Mexico with the object of

photographing scenes for a motion picture depicting the

folklore of Mexico. At the time of his entry he presented

Secretaria de Gobernacion a re-entry permit to the United

13

DocId: 32211705 Page

---

## Page 4

WEO 100-1689

3

States No. 1327807 and his immigration No. 16057 and listed

his Mexican address as Paseo de la Reforma No. 237. He also

presented two bank letters, one from Leishman, S.A., Madero

No. 17, Mexico, D.F. dated November 25, 1941 which reported

that he had a net worth of some 32,000

pesos in Mexican

currency.

The second letter of worth was issued by the

Banco de Comercio,

• SoA. located on Venustiano Carranza #42,

Mexico, D.F. which indicated that he had a check balance as

of May

9, 1941 of $1,214.00. In an official communication

to the Secretaria de

Gobernacion from the Mexican Consul in

Laredo, Texas designated as 'Strictly Confidential' informa-

tion read as follows:

'George

watched by the North American secret police and by

the immigration service agents who suspected that

his activities are in a certain way related with

espionage.

'I have known that in Corpus Christi, Texas he was

arrested and questioned for having taken photographs

at a

naval base near Aransas Pass, Texas.

'A woman by the name of Lidia Pardo Vda, de Larin,

a Mexican citizen is his companion with

whom he lives

as an and wife according to information by the U.S.

police.

'Von Mohrenschildt, who represented himself to be

born in Mosyr,

polish passport No. 743462 and visa #167

on April 17, 1911, carried

issued by

the Mexican Consulate in Laredo, Texas.

traveling in a Chrysler convertible automobile,

gray, with

license No. 5N99-37, State of New York.

'According to his declaration he came to Mexico to

film typical

Mexican scenes under contract with

'Fact Films', a New York organization.

He has

submitted the names of Lic. Miguel YARZA as a

person who will submit references for him.

Lic.

YARZA has residence on Tiber No. 6, Mexico, D.F.'

14

DocId: 32211705 Page

---

## Page 5

WFO 100-1689

"The foregoing letter is signed by one Sr.

Javier OSORNIO Co, Mexican Consul, Laredo,

Texas.

"Another official letter in the files of the

Subject at Gobernacion reads as follows:

'The Mexican Embassy in Washington informs

Gobernacion that the authorities of the

Department of State have not found any deroga-

ines

tory information against Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT

and so in this implicit manner the information

against this man by our Consul in Laredo, Texas

is annullable.'

"The record at Gobernacion further show that

DE MOHRENSCHILDT departed Mexico April 6, 1942, crossing

the U.S. border at Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas.

Further, he

letter of application to

the secretaria de

Gobernacion dated in Washington, D.C. June 17, 1942

requesting permission of the Mexican Immigration service

to enter Mexico as a resident for one year and stated that

his object for this visit was to establish a business

organization in collaboration with one Sr. Jose A. HELGUERA.

In this application to Gobernacion he stated that he had

applied for his first papers for U.S. citizenship and he

was exempt from the military service of the United States.

"On July 22,

1942 a Mrs. Lidia PARDO Camargo

requested permission of Secretaria de Gobernacion for Mr.

DE MOHRENSCHILDT's entry into Mexico for the purpose of

marrying the Subject.

The record further shows that on

August 14, 1942 the officials at Gobernacion issued a

negative answer to Mrs. PARDO Camargo.

An entry in that

record indicates that as of September 4, 1942 the Subject

was in Mexico

Illegally but departed within one week.

"These Mexican Government records indicated

the Subject was born on Aprill7,

1911, marital status:

single and he listed his profession as a motion picture

producer and his native language as Russian.

He further

indicated that he spoke,

English, Spanish and German and

his nationality in 1941-1942s Polish but that he had

applied for US. naturalization.

15

DocId: 32211705 Page

15

---

## Page 6

WFO 100-1689

5

"His Mexican references as shown by the Mexican

Immigration Service are as follows:

"Lic. Miguel YARZA, Tiber #6 with professional

offices at Ave. Madero #16.

Arcady BOYTLER,

residence as Monte Urales #609, Mexico, D.F.

"SI. JOSe A. HELGUERA who resided at Marsella #26

during the years 1941-1942.

"Sra. Lidia PARDO Camargo Vda, de LARIN, residing

at Paris #127.

"The following are places of residence of the

Subject during his stay in Mexico City in 1941:

"Dinamarca Street #42 (Washington Apartments Hotel)

"Paseo de la Reforma #237

"A representative of the Security Adviser's office

interviewed Mr. Miguel YARZA who stated that he had first met

the Subject through Mrs. Lidia PARDO during the year 1941.

He stated that he was unable to give firm references concern-

ing the Subject because he had met him on two occasions when

they had talked about Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT'S Immigration into

Mexico. This informant stated that it had come to his atten

tion through some now unidentifiable person, that Mr. DE

MOHRENSCHILDT was a German spy and he was under the impression

that Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT had married Lidia PARDO and that

they had lived in Cuernavaca for some time. He stated that on

another occasion he had met Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT at a party in

New York and at that time MI. DE MOHRENSCHILDT waS passing him-

self off

to the assembled people as a baron.

HOwEver, MI.

YARZA stated that he was sure Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT waS not

engaged in any type of business in Mexico because he was here

as a non-immigrant and therefore not eligible to legally engage

in business in Mexico.

"An unsuccessful attempt was made to interview Mr.

Arcady BOYTLER, General Manager of Arcadia Cinema, but as of

the date of this report no information was obtained.

16

DocId: 32211705 Page

---

## Page 7

WFO 100-1689

"The third person listed as a reference of the

Subject at Gobernacion, Mr. Jose A. HELGUERA, is no longer

living at his given address of Marsella #26.

However, his

brother,

Mr. Ignacio HELGUERA, was located at an address

at Isabel la Catolica #89, who advised that his brother

was now living and working in the United States and was

employed at the University of Nuth Carolina, P.O. Box 786,

Chapel Hill, North Carolina. This source of information

stated that Mr. Jose A. HELGUERA has been living in the

United States for the past ten years.

"Inquiry was made in the Washington Apartment

Hotel which was given by the Subject as one of his address-

es in Mexico.

One Mr. Ruben GREENE, administrator of the

hotel, stated that he had been working in this capacity

1940 but he does not remember the Subject or Mrs.

Lidia PARDO.

MY. GREENE stated that the hotel did not

records back to 1941 and 1942 and when presented with a

picture of the Subject again stated that he did not recall

the subject.

"One Mr. Eduardo ELIZONDO was contacted and

stated that he is

the owner of the building located at

Paseo de la Reforma #237 which was the second of two

addresses listed by the Subject at Secretaria de

Gobernacion as his residence in Mexico.

Mr. ELIZONDO stated

that he remembered the Subject very well because he was

living with Mrs. Lidia PARDO Vda. de LARIN at Reforma #237.

He described MI. DE MOHRENSCHILDT aS an adventurer who

prefers to live on a woman's money and during the time that

he resided with her at that address the Subject never worked

but traveled around Mexico as tourists.

Mr. ELIZONDO also

stated that he had heard that Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT waS a

German spy but was unable to give any basis or verification

of this statement.

The informant stated that Mr.

DE MOHRENSCHILDT and Sra. Lidia PARDO Vda. de LARIN were

living in concubinage'

and that she supported him and

paid all of the bills because he had no income of his own.

He stated that since the couple had left the building he had

never heard anything more concerning Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT

but he had known that Mrs. Lidia PARDO Vda. de LARIN had

married an additional three men and volunteered the infor

mation that she was a woman of some wealth and had very good

influence with Mexican Government officials.

17

DocId: 32211705 Page

---

## Page 8

he let :

WFO 100-1689

9

a person working in the oil fields. According to Mr.

Segotia,

the applicant left the company on good terms, and

then went to work on a project in California.

Mr. Segovia's

knowledge of the applicant was

based on botk

social and

business association.

"According to Mr. Segovia, the only other person

in Caracas who might possibly remember the applicant was the

former president of Pantepec, Mr. Warren Smith of Quinta Los

Arcos, Country Club. On September 27, 1957, Mrs. Smith

advised that her husband was in the States and could be

reached at 447 East 57th Street, Apartment 6B, New York 22,

New

York.

"Mr. E.H. Adkins, Coordinator, Servicio Industriales,

Creole Petroleum Corporation, advised on September 11, 1957

that there was no record of employment of the applicant in

the files of Creole Petroleum Corporation.

"In a letter dated September 25, 1957, Seguridad

Nacional, national security and law enforcement

agency of

the Venezuelan Goverment, stated applicant was not listed

their files.

•1505

20

DocId: 32211705

Page 8

---

