FD-36 (Rev. 12-79-56)

isha
|
i
‘ I
wo |
i}
i" FBI |
|
Date: 8/27/64 1
AIRTEL 1
Transmit the following in \
(Type in plain text or code) H
AIR MAIL I
1

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

7 TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)
FROM: SAC, MILWAUKEE (92-262)
SUBJECT: Oo, COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

Re Milwaukee airtel to Bureau 8/12/64.
Chicago airtel to Milwaukee 8/12/64,
both captioned as above.

To clarify for Chicago the situation relative to JASPER
GALLO, it should be noted that he was alleged to be

in Springfield, Illinois rather than Rockford. Informant
learned of his visit from TONY MACK (erroneously written +
in reairtel as TONY MAG) whose true name informant | /
believed to be TONY MACCALUCCI.

a
Chicago's attention is directed to Milwaukee airtel to.
Bureau dated 5/27/64, copies of which were designated
for Chicago file 92-1173 in which MI 623-C-TE referred
to TONY MACK as a member of La Cosa Nostra who was known
personally to the informant.

On 8/26/64 MI 623-C-TE viewed photo (furnished by
Chicago) of ANTHONY DE MONTE and immediately recognized
him as TONY MACK, It is noted that the reverse side

of the photo lists aliases as ANTHONY or ANTONE MACALUSO,
When this was called ter gy 's attention, he said he had /

RES 2 Cosy —
(4.~ Bureau (3 £ 92-6054) (1°- 137-8160) (AM)

2 - Chicago (92-1173) (Regular Mail) eeomsed teed et
2 - Milwaukee (1 €'92-262) (1 - 137-1318)

RCT:cef 4 AUG 284464
(8) - & |

Approvéd:

| pocra:32576038 Page 1

mem 435 feo

Co.

LCONDED

ip



-26 (Rev. 12-43-56 ae
FD-36 ( ) . a
“ \
— Le
FBI

Date:

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

MI 92-262

always thought the name was MACCALUCCI, but he assumes
the slight difference in pronunciation was his own
error. At any rate, it was from conversation with
TONY MACK and JOE ZITTO at Rockford on 8/8/64 that
informant learned of GALLO's visit to the United
States. Informant said on 8/26/64 that he had heard
no more about GALLO, but undoubtedly will the next
time he can get to Rockford. If any of this
information on GALLO's visit is set out in details of
a report, the fact informant is from Milwaukee, that
he learned of the above in Rockford or that he
learned same through TONY MACK and JOE ZITTO, should
be ommitted and confined to the administrative pages
for the informant's security.

On 8/26/64 MI 623-C-TE advised that on the night of
8/23/64 GUS GIAVINGO of Chicago was in Milwaukee and
was in contact with FRANK BALISTRIERI, boss of the
Milwaukee outfit. They were seen. together at Fazio's
on 5th Street and were with JOHN AIELLO, JERRY

DI MAGGIO and several other Milwaukeeans. Informant
said he did not know GIAVINGO's purpose but would try
to find out. He said that GIAVINGO was very close
to TONY MACK, previously mentioned, and was a member
of La Cosa Nostra in Chicago. He said he was about
50 years of age, 6 feet tall, 200 pounds or more with
dark hair which was graying.

On mention of the name JERRY DI MAGGIO informant
stated that this was a member of the Milwaukee family
of La Cosa Nostra whom he had previously overlooked.
He said that DI MAGGIO worked as a bartender for
é FRANK BALISTRIERI and was trusted by BALISTRIERI,
: DI MAGGIO is also the nephew.of CARLO DI MAGGIO, a member
of the Milwaukee family of long standing. A new case
is being opened on DI MAGGIO,

Approved: Sent M Per
Special] Agent in Charge

i

| Docla:32576038 Page 2



FD-36 (Rev. 10-29-63) -

Transmit the following in

ea
Ne ke,

g Bureau (92-6054) we
2
2

‘Approved: oo Sent M > Per
Spéciff Agent in Charge

O

FBI

8/12/64

Date:

Z (Type in plain text or code)
AIRTEL AIRMAIL
(Priority)
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6051)
FROM: SAC, MILWAUKEE (92-262) P
SUBJECT: ag LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY : y,

i ¢ ap
Re Milwaukee teletype 8/10/64, no copies of which?
were sent to WFO,

For the information of Washington Field, MI 623-C-TE advised
8/10/64 that JASPER GALLO, who resides in Italy, flew to New
York City. about April 1, 1964 and was supposedly contacting
leaders of La Cosa Nostra for the purpose of obtaining financial
assistance for members in Italy who are incarcerated. Appro-
ximately 300 members reported in custody, principally around
Palermo, Italy.

GALLO described as 70 years of age, 5'8", gray hair,’ release
from Leavenworth Penitentiary about 25 years ago on completion
of sentence for bootlegging. GALLO was a former boss of the
Rockford family, Rockford, Illinois.

The following ‘additional information is being supplied Ke
Chicago Field Division:

MI 623-C-TE on 8/10/64 reported that two representatives of the
Chicago family from the north side gang attended the wedding of
the son of PHIL PRIOLA at Rockford, Illinois on 8/8/64, They
are: TONY MACCALUCCI (phonetic), aka, TONY MAG, and GUST

New York (92-2330

GIAVINGO (phonetic). ; :
nines 74 - Ge ALF
Chicago. (92-117: AM) (FM) alin ramen

3) (RM)

Springfield (92-461) (AM) ). te AUG 13 1964
WrO (AM) (RM) AX Tog
2 = Milwaukee (92-262) (137-131

APL/1mp C4 Fy
SEPT 71968

| Docla: 32576038 Page 3

