# docid-32316632

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10350-10074

HQ

CR 105-121863-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE: 07/25/1963

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32316632

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

FRENIE REVOLUCIONARIO

ANTICOMUNISTA (FRAC)

DATE

7/25/63

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/19 - 7/24/63

REPORT MADE BY

WILLIAM MAYO DREW, JR. WMD:

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

pim

IS - CUBA; RA - CUBA; NM

REFERENCE: Bureau airtel 7/22/63.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

RELEASE OF CIA IRFORMATIONLEADS -

MTAMT: IN THIS DOCUMENT KP 12-19-47

SID /KSIR

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

-134x

JFK

1.) Will further identify MANUEL PONCE, 3083

Northwest 32nd Street, and consider advisability of

interviewing him.

2.) Will maintain close contact with JESUS

RAFAEL FRANCO CANEDO in order to follow the plans and

activities of AGUILAR.

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

COPIES MADE 22/

• Bureau (RM) (105-421863)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

-

Miami (RM)

1

105-

1 21 85 631

State Dept.

(Cuban Affairs)

Miami (RM'

1

Uas.

Miami™

U.S.

Coast Guard,

1

G-2,

Ft. McPherson,

Ga.

(RM)

ONI,

Miami (RM)

181 JUL 29 1963

1

OSI,

Robins AFB,

- CIA,

Miami (RM)

BECO

1 - U.S.

Customs

Miami

2 = Miami

(105-4769)

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

(RM)

- King

170-

NOTATIONEH 85

REC- 57.

AGENCY_.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD.

HOW FWD.

BY--

Copy to: CIA/State/3

ONI/OST/ACSI

by routing slip fat mio.

Date:

5s002

S4440

Castons

Coast Quach HEREIN IS UNCLASSIEIED

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE 1/2198

BYSO8 MACOAT.

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTiNG OFFICE

10-76324-1

N•108

OFK,

DocId: 32316632

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-4769

3.) Will locate and interview LUIS DE PAZOS

regarding his knowledge of the AGUILAR group.

- ADMINISTRATIVE -

This report has been classified "CONFIDENTIAL"

as unauthorized disclosure of information contained therein

could compromise a source of continuing value.

Pretext utilized, by SA WILLIAM MAYO DREW, JR., in

interview of AGUILAR was in connection with his status under

the Cuban Refugee Assistance Program.

Inquiry at Universal Firearms Corporation, Hialeah,

Florida, failed to develop any information regarding AGUILAR

Or FRAC or attempts by AGUILAR to purchase arms there.

SA DREW observed the boat mentioned as being

located at 3083 Northwest 32nd Street.

JESUS RAFAEL FRANCO CANEDO is in almost daily

contact with AGUILAR, and appears to be in a position to

follow developments in this matter.

IDENTITY

MM T-I is JESUS RAFAEL

FRANCO CANEDO (by request)

- INFORMANTS

LOCATION

134-914 Sub A

B. *

(COVER PAGE)

920-10017

DocId: 32316632

Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-4769

.

On June 19, 1963, MM I-1, a Cuban exile who

was formerly a member of the Cuban

Rebel Army, and who

is acquainted with certain anti-CASTRO personalities in

the Miami area, advised as follows:

DEMBER OF SUBEG ORGANIZATION.

MANOLO AGUILAR, 829 Southwest Ninth Avenue,

Miami, is Head of the Frente Revolucionario Anticomunista

(FRAC), and was planning to mount one or more raids

against Cuba in two or three weeks. Source stated the

AGUILAR group has three boats, two of which are located

in the Miami River, and one in a garage in Miami. It was

also reported that they had a cache of explosives which

they were planning to use on these raids. Source stated

that this group had contacts in New York, where they

were buying arms which they plan to bring to Miami. Among

the equipment which they were seeking to buy were a number

of .57 millimeter recoilless rifles. He stated that this

group also had contacts with fishermen in Key West, Florida,

on whom they could count for assistance in connection with

their proposed raids.

"Diario Las Americas", a Spanish language

newspaper published in Miami, Florida, in its issue of

February 15, 1962, contained

a directory of Cuban

Revolutionary and

Professional Organizations in Exile.

On this list was the Frente Revolucionario Anticomunista,

453 Northwest Third

1 Street, Miami.

The April 27, 1962 issue of the "Miami Herald"

carried a front page article entitled, "Exiles Train

Again Without U.S. Aid".

The article reflected there

FIA:

were approximately twenty-two anti-CASTRO groups under-

going military instruction in the Miami area.

Listed as

participating in this training was MANUEL AGUIIAR, Head

of the Anti-Communist Revolutionary Front.

2.

MEMBERLOR SUBJECT ORGANIZATION:

DocId: 32316632 Page 4

---

