# docid-32298454

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10222-10230

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2914-1ST NR 21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ' FBI

FROM:

TO :

LEG, HAVANA

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

04/03/1958

1

SM, GM, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32298454

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Director, IbI

April 3, 195%

Legat;

'Havana (92-9)

SANUEL MANNARINO, waS. ;

GABRIEL MANNARINO, waS.

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

ALL INFORMATION GONTAINED

HERERAS UNCLASSIMIED

DATE 0/30/94 BY SPomAe CeL

(AK)

ANTI- RACKETEERING

Re Havana letter to Bureau dated February 6, 1958.

Continuous contacts with the following individuals

have failed to develop any further intonation concerning

the subjects and any possible gambling interests on their

part in havana:

both subjects;

ARTIE NEMAN, Credit Manager,

Gambling Casino,

Hotel Nacional, who is

also acquainted with both subjects;

Havana-;

Havane-13;

It. JORGE PENA HERRERA, Head of the Allon Control

Section, Department of Investigation, Cuban National Police,

No additional investigation concerning subjects

1s contemplated by the Legal attache,

Havana, until such

time as

intornation is received indicating that subjects

nave renewed their activity in Lavana.

In this regard it

shouza be noted that detailed review of incoming and out.

going 1light manifests covering any extended period of time

ie not feasible since the Allen Control Saction of the De

partnent of Investigation does not have personnel available

for such a project.

Such a check

date or for a period covering only a specified few days.

Extra copies of this letter have been prepared for

forwarding by the Bureau to Pittsburgh.

42-2.914-

BUC

AT

"NDED

17C APR 10 1958

2918-

INITIALS ON ORIGINAL

DJB :1g

58 APR 18 1958

ORIGINAL COPY FILED LI

DocId: 32298454

Page 2

---

