o

3 FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56) : *
Cah :
i : ° y ‘

FBI
Date: 1/19/65
Transmit the following in Tipe pals eat GST

Via

AIRTEL

4 4gaf alr 2)

hh
by
VE haa

leo IN to!

ray,

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO : Director, FBI (92-3182)

ron fics, Bern (92-10) (P)

GUS ALEX, aka
AR

Re Bern airtel 1/4/65, A

On 1/15/65 the Swiss Central Police Bureau furnished
information which has been made the subject of a letterhead
memorandum, 4 copies of which are enclosed.

. On 1/14/65, Dr. ALFRED CARREL, Chief of the Swiss
Central Police Bureau, had telephoned with the information
that ALEX and FUEGER were reported to be in the Hotel Bristol
in Paris. This information was furnished Legat, Paris, by
telephone,

One copy each of this memorandum is being designated
for Legats Rome, Paris and Bonn, as well as the Chicago Office,
since. these offices have conducted previous investigation in
this case.

This case is being retained in a pending status in
this office to | further information,

1a
Bureau (Encl. 4) ENCLOSURF
(1 - Liaison) (Encl.) REG: 137, RMIT ) Do
(1 = Chicago) (info) (92-373) Gide eA !
‘- Bonn (92-5) (Encl.) (info) (direct) Creenvemree Sse reenaE
- Paris ((92-4)(Encl.) (info) (direct)

- Rome (92-47) (Enc1.) (info) (direct) at JAN 25 1965
- Bern

HDG:m1s . neeeo
is ae
fod

Bee

64 eB i {9B'Special Agent in Charge

royed Yee — Sent M Per

Docld:32556616 Page 1



UNITx » STATES DEPARTMENT OF ) sTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.
In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. a January 19, 1965

GUS ALEX

The Swiss Central Police Bureau, Bern, Switzerland,
furnished the following information:

According to a report received from the ntonal —_—
Police of Chur, Switzerland, GUS ALEX and DIETGARDAFUEGER na
stayed at the Schlosshotel in Pontresina between Dedember 22,
1964, and January 5, 1965. Like on previous holiday: ALEX
and FUEGER had no contacts with other guests and are described
as being rather withdrawn, ALEX usually went skiing in the
morning whereas the afternoon and the evening he would spend
with FUEGER. They often traveled by car to St. Moritz.

ALEX made the following calls while staying at the

Schlosshotel:
7
December 24, 1964 676234 Athens
December 28, 1964 312-38675 Evergreen Park/USA

ALEX and FUEGER left Pontresina on January 5, 1965
and traveled back to Zurich by car, On leaving the hotel
they gave the impression they would later proceed to Paris
and stay at the Hotel Bristol. They requested that any mail
addressed to the. Scklosshotel for their attention was to be
forwarded to Mrs. E,\FUEGER, Riederau No. 4, Kreis Landsberg.

In Zurich AL and FUEGER checked in again at the
Dolder Grand Hotel. ALEX spent part of the afternoon of
January 5, 1965, in town and again went to town the follow-
ing morning by taxi, calling at the TWA booking office and
at the Swiss Bank Corporation, He gave the taxi driver to
understand that it iS”more advantageous to change money at
the bank than at the hotel. The same morning ALEX made a
call to Evergreen Park, USA, No. GAR 38675.

© ga-3)6a. 007

ENCLOSURE SYYy-\AQQ ds

Docld:32556616 Page 2


At noon on January 6, 1965, the couple left the
hotel by taxi and proceeded to Kloten Airport, from where
they flew to Geneva on Swissair flight 043.

With regard to their stay in Geneva, the Geneva
Police reported that they checked in at the Hotel Richemond.
Among their baggage were two pair of skis. At the hotel
ALEX indicated that he and FUEGER would stay until January
8, and again from January 19 to 21, 1965, He also gave the
impression that they would be accompanied by another person
during their forthcoming stay. It is thought that this
person will be Miss. FUEGER's mother,

ALEX ‘and FUEGER are believed to spend the time
between January 8 and 19 at a ski resort.

— Algor 1027
: AE NESS

eect Serer

Docld:32556616 Page 3

a ~


UNITi. - STATES DEPARTMENT OF J) TICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.
In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. danuisy 20, 1968

Gua ALEX

Tho Swiss Contra Police Bureau, Rern, Switmeriand,
furnished the following information:

: Aceording 6 a report recedaved from the Cantonal
Seliee of Chuy, Gpitzerland, GUS ALEX aad DIBTGAND FOROER :
stayed at the Schiccskotel in Pontresina, Rotwaes December 22,
ieee Bnd January 6, 1905, Like on provieus holidays, ALRY

BOER had as contacts with other guests and are desershed

ae rte rather bichaare bivees saggy uenally went skiing i the
nerning wheresa t tommoda and the ovening he would apend
wath PURGEA. They eften. traveled by dar te St. Horite.

ALEZ mado the following calls while staying at the
Sektoashotel:

Desesher 24, 2964 876234 athens :
December 22, 1964 9312-38075 -Evergroen Park/UsA

ALES and FPUEGER left Pontresina on January 5, 1835,
and traveled back to Surach by car. Om leaviag the kote?
they gave the impressien they would later proceed to Paris
and stay at the Hotel Bristol. ‘Théy requested that any madi
addveagod to tho Uohlesshotel for their attention was te be
forwarded to lise. 8. FURGER, Riederau No. 4, Bretie Landsberg.

: in Zurich ALSE and FURGER checked in again at the
Dolder Grand Hotel, ALEX spent part of the afternoon of
danuary &, 2663, in tewn and agals went to town tho fclleg-
dug morning by tant, callang at the TWh booking office and
at the fvies Bank Covporation. He gave the tani driver to
wilorstand that it io mere advantageous te change money at
the bask than at the hetel., Tho sasé worniag ALEE made a
ea4k to Svergreon Park, UM, Ne. GAR 28375. :

Ae

Docld:32556616 Page 4

BUA)

