JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/21/201

Agency Information

e AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10298-10105
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 29-31889-184
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
i FROM: ROSEN, A.
TO: BELMONT
TITLE:
DATE: — 12/10/1963
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS :
[Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
| DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/26/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : INC MEMO

vol

DocId:32309318 Page 1

41


ir. Herbert J. Miller, Jr. December 11, 1963

Assistant Attorney General
Dixector, FBI

JSHES RIDDLE BORFA
DOUINICK EDVARD BARTONE, BT Az.

1 - Mr, Conrad

FEDERAL RESERVE ACT; INTERSTATE 1 - Mr, Evanse: GF
TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEN PROPESTY ~

MAIL FRAUD; FRAUD BY WIRE; CONSPIRACY ae

N

This is to confirm receipt of your request made on... = &

December 10, 1963, te dal Agent Robert A. Garvey of this 2 =
Bureau to equip Robert Meisener with a tape recorder con- © =

cealed on his pergon for" the purpose of xecording a conversation:
during a contemplated meeting between Meisener and Joseph F.
Verhelie, former President of Public Bank, Detroit, omebeects

on December (ER, 1963, :

You advised that Woiauner, « a Chicago, s1tineis,
consulting engineer, ig cooperating with the Government and
has furnished considerable information which he has obtained
from Verhelle relating to the activities of Hoffa and the
granting of Pension Fund loans. Meissner reportedly stated
his meeting with Verhelie, scheduled to occur in Meissner's
apartment in Chicago, was called by Verhelle to discuss ways
they can help Hofia in the Nashville case.

in accordance with your request, our ‘Chicago Office.
has been instructed to equip Heisener with a tape recorder for
the purpose stated above. The Criminal Division will be
furnished with the results.

ee 8 2ansissa — 164

ALL ction coianep

REIN 1S UNCLASSIFIED

BATE LOL Weg, age ME
fa)

NOTE: See memorandum Mr. Rosen to Mr. Belmont, captioned
as above, dated 12/10/63, LRK:eem, which contains a
request by Assistant Attorney General Miller to equip
Meissner with a tape recorder for thé ‘afore-mentioned
purpose, Our Chicago. Office was télephonical ly instructed
at 6:30 P.M., 12/10/63, to contact Department Attorney William
French of. the Criminal Division, who in C jgago in connection
, With captioned matter, igh h Stepegyip Meissner

and arrange th
_ with this.tape recorder. 7
Seige 1 @ GY Ve My BP , Ju

Casper
Callahan

Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
Gale

Rosen

aS
Tovel eoeesssse eee

Trotter
Tele. Room ———

Holmes

Gandy

mar RooML_] reLetype UNIT

DocId:32309318 Page 2



P

d

rrIONAL FORK NO. 10 _ an
: : |
UNITED’ STATES GOVER ANT : Gan, : Belmont H
J Moke
Memorandum . , os

Conrad
DeLoach ‘

one Evens
To : Mr, mormon DATE: December 10, 1963 ae H
= oe i

Tavel
FROM : A. nonrfe i
ALL INFORMATION SF Gandy

6) IN 1S, UNCLASSIFIED
SUBJECT: JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA pail -24 9 52 Dah g fiese-

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE, ET AL,
FEDERAL RESERVE ACT; INTERSTATE ee Oey Duke i
TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEN PROPERTY ;

MAIL FRAUD; .FRAUD BY WIRE; CONSPIRACY

- ., Assistant Attorney General Herbert J, Miller, Jr., has |
telephonically requested that the Bureau equip Robert C, Meissner,
principal in captioned matter, with a technical device concealed on
his person to-record a contemplated meeting between Meissner and
Joseph Fe Verhelle, former President, Public Bank, Detroit, Michigan,
which is”supposed to take place at Meissner's apartment in Chicago,
Illinoig; during the early morning of 12/11/63.. According to Mr, Miller,
Meissner is cooperating with the Government and. has furnished consid-
erable information concerning which Meissner has obtained from Verhelle
relating to the activities of Hoffa and the granting of Pension'-Fund
loans. Meissner has informed the Department that his meeting with
Verhelle on 12/11/63 was called by Verhelle to discuss ways, ene can
help Hof fq_ in bid Nashville case. 7 .

itr, Miller pointed out that recently sich a device was _S2.-
successfully utilized in the Osborn Obstruction of Justice case at
Nashville, which resulted in Osborn being indicted iby, Nashville Federal
grand jury. on 12/6/63, In this case a damaging conversa mn was .re-
corded between Osborn and an intermediary (on whom a tap ecorder
was concealed) Osborn was using to influence a potential juror in the
forthcoming trial. : 7

Both Meissner and Verhelle were principals in captioned —
matter, which involved a series of ,18dngihialde, by Public Bank, Detroit,
totaling $800,000, to virtually ingéivenht' @Srporations, It is
alleged that these loans were made at the insistence of Hoffa, who
threatened to remove Teamsters PRONG THIS on Ggposit at at. Public

Bank unless the loans.were granted ji ai)
bial”

Ge,
RECOMMENDATION: WE -
\S * F Tay wiew of the need for expediency 7t is recommended that
our eae Oftice be A ed deere instrue4 % ¢ to. SEG 2 i

a
‘le Mr. Honrad

BH.

*e 4,9 J, /

29-31880 © ee ta bf. Es

LRK:eem peace bites
ohe CG

DocId:32309318 Page 3


ee fae : cae eae

Memorandum to Mr, Belmont
Re: James Riddle Hoffa; Dominick Edward Bartone, et al.

Department Attorney William French of the Criminal Division, who
is now in Chicago in connection with captioned matter, for
Meissner to be equipped with a concealed tape recorder for the
afore-mentioned purpose. Chicago will be instructed to insure
that full security is afforded this installation.

It is noted that Meissner is President of Meissner
Consulting Engineering Company of Chicago, which company was
engaged to perform a survey on one of the insolvent corporations

which had borrowed funds from Public Bank, Detroit, in an effort
to determine if the company could be made into a profit-making

: a | Gi b

DocId:32309318 Page 4
