AGENCY:
RECORD NUMBER:
RECORD_SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

AGENCY INFORMATION

FBI
124-10127-10018
DL

44-1639-6271

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC. HO
TO: DIRECTOR. FBI
TITLE:

DATE: 09/25/1964

PAGES: 4
SEE FBI 44-24016-2049

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT_TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL Unclassified NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW _DATE: — 04/02/1996 UPDATE DATE: 01/25/2001
STATUS _ Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (4)
COMMENTS:

DoclId:32158268 Page 1


9/25/64

CATRTEL So Se AR MATE

“DIRECTOR, FBI. (4u-24016)
SAC, HOUSTON (4~ 930)) eee Aer
JACK L. RUBY, Aka.; :

LEE HARVEY OEWALD, Akay ~
VICTIM :

Ret Houston airtel ‘to Bureau aatea 9/24/6h.

“melosed for. Dalles are 25 copies each: of the
following items:

FD-302.re interview or HAZEL é D, Operator

, of Desert Room Lounge, Houston,/“Texas; -
_FD-302 re interview of PETE FLORES;
FD-302 re interview of PAUL POLO GHEF .
FD-302 re intérview of MARTIN RIZ0, MARTY —
RIZO,* RAC! LRIZQ3.. 2 y eS
Insert reps ting ind geel taneous investigation at.
Houston co: ducted 9/215 22/64

It is to be noted that HO 1138-C (Protect, Identity),
bartender; ‘Desert *Room Lounge, Houston, from 1958 to.1961,
advised on 9/21/64 he never knew of “JACK RUBY ever having
been in’ the Desert; Room Lounge nor had’ he ever heard of

RUBY's/ having been there. He did not recall JAMES/J.

. ~ RREIDING, or WA ¢ N. He informed that _¥ 7, Aka...”

- RAC) RUIZ; Is /probably identical with MARTY RIZO; Aka.
‘ RACHAEL RIZO.-. He further noted. that "PAUL" is probably.

"identical with PAUL GUERRERO and that "PETE" is probably.
. identical with PETE FLORES. CI stated these. three were

ee Bree (ean omc 125) (aM) Ad. 1639- P 2; 7 7

Ce» Houston SEARCHED
DUF/ jh. SERIALIZED

7
(7) -SEP “28 1964

eapaeecesarte ¥ BEEEEE ie : : FBI— DALLAS
Dy Id: 32158268 Page ee + x



_ HO 4-939"

: frequently in the Desert’ “Room Lounge together: On ‘gpeo/éy :
HO 1138-C furnighed the whereabouts of RIZO and ‘BLORES | vin. :
Houston, Texas, a

2 On. 9/21 /6, ‘por: JAMES WILLIAM FRANK. DAVENPORT :
(Protect Ideritity), advised that PAUL’ GUERRERO resides at
310 Crosstimbers, Houston, Texas, and is a hairdresser’ at
aalteate Bast Salon; Houston. :

Docla: 32158268 ° Page 3


AERTEL.

1: : i © panonen, rer F (ubotons)

BROW: ~ Sag, HOwSTON (48=030)(P)
SUBJECT: gare bs Uy, ‘Aka. S

ie TRE MARVEY, OS cosa aka.

| Mace

(00 oe aie

Reg | Houston ‘alstel to” Bureau dated 9/24/64.

Rnelosed fox Dallas axe B. Sopies each of _
_toLowting. iteage

FD-302 ra “interview of BASEL ETN KINGCAID, operator
of Desert Roon Lounge, Houston, Toxae3

~FD~302 go interview of PREM PLGRESs

“PD-302 vo interview of PAUL POLO GUERRERO; ;
PD-308 re interview of MARTI RIZO, Alkas 5 "scene
RIZO, RACHAEL RIZOs

 Fagert. reporting mLeeelianoous investigation at
Houston, conducted: 0/22 82/64. -

2 de to bo noted “that HO.1139-¢ (Protect aeneity), a

bartender, pov Room Lounge, Hougten, fron 1956 1961, ies

advised oh.9/2i/6h he never knew of JACK. RUBY over bt tg

been inthe. Desert Ream’ Loungé nor had he hes heard of

RUBY'p “having Ween there. He, aid not recall J a5

XNEIDING or UAYNE CRAVEN, Ho inforned that HARTY RUIZ, Aka.»
RUIZ, is probably: identical, with MARTY RIZO, Alen. »

RACHAEL :RIZ0. He. further noted that "PAUL". Is 3 probably :

identical, with PAUL GUERRERO and that "PETE" is probably

identical with Pars FLORES, Ben stated these three were

3.2 Bureau’

nas Boiias. {acy onas we, ee - 44. 1639- b> 27 i

7 = fons
DUE, ja
(A).

SEP 28 1964

FBI—DALLAS

Docldi32158268 -Page 4


: ‘exequently: ta the Dedext Root: Lounge eee oa 9/22/64, ,
- HO.1138-C fugniched the whereabouts of Rizo and FLORES ‘in
+, Houston, ‘Texas,

: on sjfentes. [Pet JAMES. wrentany. RANE DAVERPORT :
(protect: Identity), Advieed that PAUL GUERRERO. resides at
\¥ 310 Grosetimbers, Houston, Texas, and is Hakearese er at

Guifgate Beauty, secant Houston. i wre

f

Docld:32158268 Page 5 ©
