JFK Assassination System Date: 5/1/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

Released under the John

AGENCY: FBI ig nann
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10277-10060 sper thoennie eae serene
ollection Act of 1992
RECORD SERIES: HQ (44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#:NW 55208 Date:
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-3267-431 Seer
i Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DODGE, HAROLD F.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 02/25/1963
PAGES: 7
SUBJECTS :
JRO, BKG, ASSOC, TRA, B/F INT, RES, TOLL CALLS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4; 11(a)
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 01/21/1999
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF IRS, INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2, INDEX PAGES a-d

vl

\NW 45945 Docld:32300725 Page 1


LA 92-113

The individuals who furnished information set out.in

FD-302's_ in this report and not identified therein are as
follows:

Fidelity Bank, Beverly Hills, California
JEANETTE CALNEK, Head Bookkeeper;

Bank of America, Laurel-Sunset Branch
FRANK D'ELIA, Operations Officer;

Pacific Telephone Company, Los Angeles
CSLA 4178-S;

Continental Bank, 8730 Sunset Boulevard,
Los Angeles, ROGER B, GIVEN, Vice President.

The Miami Office in January, 1963, was requested to
interview JACK BROOKS ‘who formerly worked for Nevada Concessions

Inc. in Las Vegas, Nevada,

By ‘airtel dated 1/31/63, the Miami Office advised
the New York and Los Angeles offices concerning results of
investigation conducted in Miami during January, 1963, which
indicated that JACK BROOKS was no longer living in Miami and
was probably living or could be reached at 1705 Andrews Ave.,
Bronx, New York. The Miami Office requested the New York

Office to locate and interview BROOKS,

Re-contact of LA 4221-PC revealed. that this informant

had no information as to where BROOKS might be located in
York City.

Investigation by Internal
Revenue Service (IRS),

Los Angeles, California ‘

During January and Feb E, LYNCH;
Special Agent, TRS, Los Angeles : -
JF Pitta

New

Ipc :
pe REVIEWED BY FBHJFK TASK FORCE
COVER PAGE oN ix i |
Cl RELEASE IN FULL ee

Yi RELEASE IN PART
C1 TOTAL oenaL™.

HW 45945 DocId:32300725 Page 2



On 1/18/63, Agent LYNCH made available eertain income
tax returms.so that photostats of them could be made by the
Los Angeles Office. These returns included the 1958 through
: 1961 returns of JOSEPH I, BREEN, JR.; the 1956 and 1957 returns
|! of Monte. Proser Productions, Inc.3 and the 1956 through 1959
| returns of Nevada Concessions, Inc. These photostats are being

INFORMANTS : JPK Law LL fa)

4 LA T-13
4 LA 3445-0

LA 7-80 -

Lt, M, B, PHILLIPS, :

Intelligence Division, - : a
Los Angeles Police Dept.

a -C-
. COVER PAGE

| : in the 1A section of the Los Angeles fileT id F

| HW 45945 DocId:32300725 Page 3



hes

LA 92-113

LA T-100

SA WILLIAM R, CARTER

(who resides under a fictitious L
namé in an apartment adjacent

to ROSSELLI).

LA T-105
128
m129 6"
LA 4396-c% “.,

-LA T-112

LA VON LOOMIS, Manager,
"Gall Nina", Telephone
Answering Service,
Hollywood, California.

LA T-114
-138

-139
LA 4268-C

LA T-132
PCI GEORGE COSTELLO
"Actor's. Dial" Telephone
Answering Service,

y Hollywood, California.

LA T-152
LV 10-¢

‘ = by airtels on 1/25 and 2/7/63 have been
requezsed, to comtuct investigation regarding MICHAEL C.
and SAMUEL WEISMAN,

i The Newark Office will be re ested to identify the
subscriber to telephone number NO 6-8684, Westwood, New Jersey,

-D-
COVER PAGE

HW 45945 DocId:32300725 Page 4
