AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/28/201

Agency Information

FBI
124-10222-10225

HQ

92-2914-IST NR 18, 2ND NR 18

Released under the John
. Kennedy
Bssassination Records
collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ased:NW 45852 Date:
p4-06-2013

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

val

Document Information

FBI
SAC, PG
DIRECTOR, FBI

03/21/1958
6

NRO, COOPERATING, GM, SM, ASSOC, B/F INT, ILLEGAL

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4; 11(a)

Redact

01/29/1999

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

INC LHM

NW 45852 DocId:32298449 Page 1


PG. 92-228.:
92-236

Miami will also alert major airlines serving Cuba regarding the
likelihood of SAM MANNARINO traveling to Cuba as requested in
Pittsburgh airtel dated 3/20/58.

finvestigation Requested ‘in cuba} Se

i : Yeu)
t is: requested that sources in Havana and Camaguey, cuba J be
Gontaected in an effort to confirm the.allegation that. N AN
ROTHMAN in cooperation with the MANNARINO brothers, have slot
machines operating in the interior of Cuba, and if so, the extent
of their operation. Sources should also be contacted for any oe
information they may have that. would confirm SAM MANNARINO'S.
statement about investing in the pineapple business.

It is also requested that sources familiar with the Island of
Pines be: contacted to. determine, if. possible, whether GABRIEL
MANNARINO has been living aboard a houseboat in that area :
since his disappearance from New Kensington, Pa., during 12/57.

Arrangeménts should be made with proper officials. in Havana

to receive notification of SAM MANNARINO's arrival in Cuba since
as indicated in the enclosed memorandum, he has declared his
intention to return to Cuba for an extended period in the very
near future, Sources in Havana should be alerted concerning
the possibility of SAM MANNARINO's arriyal in order that his
‘activities can be followed closely. (x) Mm)

The source mentioned in paragraph 1 of attached letterhead
memorandum is PG 545-cC contacted by SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE
on 3/7/58. ;

The agent mentioned in paragraph 3 is SA JOHN S. PORTELLA.

The source mentioned in paragraph 4 is, SA JOHN SCHWARTZ,
Intelligence Division, Internal Revenue Service, Pittsburgh,
contacted. by SA DOUCE.

SAS mentioned in paragraph 5 are SAS PORTELLA and GENE H.
STUDEBAKER:

The source mentioned in paragraphs 7 and 8 is MIKE ZERVOS, PCI,
Pittsburgh Office, contacted by SA DOUCE.

REVIEWED BY FBUJFK TASK FORCE

on /]- d= ad

1 RELEASE IN FULL :

_X, RELEASE IN PART
€1 TOTAL DENIAL

HW 45852 DocId:32298449 Page 2
