# docid-32286038

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10194-10314

HQ

92-3182-869

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

COOK, ROBERT A.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/29/1963

19

GAL, RES, EMP, GAMBLING, ACT, ASSOC, TRAVEL

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286038

Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

CG 92-373

CHICAGO

ILLINOIS. Will continue to conduct

and reportinvestigations concerning the background and

activities of GUS ALEX in accordance with Bureau letter to

Newark dated 11/27/57 entitled "TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM,

AR".

INFORMANTS

CG T-1 is PCI FRANK LA CROIX contacted periodically

from 9/15/63 through 11/19/63 by SA ROBERT A. COOK.

CG T-2 is CG6502-C*

CG T-3 is JACK BURKE, Investigator, Immigration

and Naturalization Service, Chicago, contacted by SA COOK

on 10/18/63.

CG T-4 is CG6443-C contacted periodically from

9/15/63 through 11/19/63 by SAS WILLIAM A. MEINCKE and

JOSEPH G. SHEA.

CG T-5 is PCI CHARLES POSTL contacted by SA COOK on

11/18/63.

CG T-6 is CG6576-C*.

CG T-7 is CG6656-C-TE contacted periodically by

SAS MARSHALL E. RUTLAND and WILLIAM F. ROEMER, JI., from

9/15/63 through 11/15/63.

B*

COVER PAGE

Idit 1131t

DocId: 32286038

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-373

possibly violating any immigration laws.

MT. MANFRED STERN, German Consulate General's

Office, 104 South Michigan Avenue, advised sAs Cool and

DEWHIRST that DIETGARD ROSEMARIE FUEGER has valid German

Passport Number B4019969 which was issued to her on

October 16, 1961, and was valid until October 15, 1966.

She was married in April, 1957, to HELMUT MATER and has since

divorced MAIER in Munich, Germany on May 25, 1961. She was

originally admitted to the United states on september 17, 1957,

as an immigrant having original Passport Number B0930642,

which was issued to her on May?7, 1957, at Munich, Germany.

Her current alien registration number is A10853180.

III. ACTIVITIES

CG T-2 advised that he had received information

that ALEX as well as other Chicago hoodlums were greatly

interested in securing business locations in "Old Town"

area

of Chicago.

CG T-2 stated that since this area has been

redeveloped lately

and is now a tourist attraction, business

establishments in the area are doing quite well financially,

and that it is for this reason that ALEX and his associates

are attempting to secure business locations in this area.

CG T-2 stated that he did not know the names of any business

establishments in the area which may possibly be owned by

ALEX or other members of the criminal element.

CG T-T advised that he had received information

that five persons are exercising complete control of

organized criminal activities in the Chicago area, and that

these persons were SAM GIANCANA, TONY ACCARDO, PAUL RICCA, GUS

ALEX, and a fifth person not known by CG T-7.

CG T-7

further advised that he had heard that in the Loop area

MURRAY HUMPHREYS is directly under ALEX in control, and that

below HUMPHREYS is RALPH PIERCE and PIERCE is followed by

PAT MARCY, Administrative Assistant to the First Ward

Alderman.

_ 9 -

91-3188-869

DocId: 32286038 Page 3

---

