# docid-32314940

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10338-10050

RECORD SERIES : KC

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-116-1616

, Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

KC

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/27/1962

2

NICHOLAS CIVELLA (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32314940

Page 1

---

## Page 2

8/27/52

SLAIN TEXT

AIM MAIL

1O:

DIRECION, MBI (62-9-43)

THOM:

BAG, KANDAS CITY (92-235)

SUBJECT:

CRIMINAL INTELLACENCE PROGRAM •

KANSAS CITY DIVISION

Ro Enneos City airtol to Bureau 8/17/62.

On 8/24/62, MaJOr JOHN FLAVIN, Kansas City, Missouri

Police hepartmont, advinad that a noting vas held at the sth

Street Drug, on the previous dete, at which NICHoLS CiViL

CARL CIVELLA, ALEX PRESIA and numerous other pelt known criminaLs

were in attendence.

He stated he did not know the purpose 08

this

meeting, but officers did intercept BUCINE REUBEN MC CROSIEY,

FBI # 898370,

In the area apparently on the way to the get

together.

His polico department "picted up" MC CROStSY for

¡Che purposes of

securing photographs and fingerprints.

It 16

ito bo noted that infornation had been furnished by the Dallas

Division that IC CROSILY had been spending considerablo time

in that ares, which infornation had been disseminated to Major

croskuY is a vell know crininal specializing in

robberies of rosidences whore individuals who havo substantiad

incomes rosido...

KC 805-C turniched information that the CAECANO LOCDOU

family apparently is experiencing difficulties within the

femily relationshiy.:

Kansas

City, Missouri Police bepartmont Vico Squad that one

"SOLLY" SC LEROY nos conducting gambling operations in the

esclusive Hoot & Morn Club locatod in the Livestocs Lachange

Bullding in the Kansas City Stock Vard azes.

The patrons are

believed to be reputable and influontinl businessuen in the

Kansas City aroa.

-Cureau (02-9-23) (AD)

CIty

(2-02-985)

31-57-250)

GEL :148

(7)

Searched

Serialized

Indexed

Filed _

92-116-1616

DocId: 32314940

Page 2

---

## Page 3

RC

88-985

All sources

have failed to reflect inforuation that

THOMAS CACIOPO has returnod to Kansas City and JOB CANULLA, who

was closely associated with menbers of the criminal element

а пока сАлово і

in no wey been expested i

Kaneas City nod that any zumors to this attect vore probably

false.

PCI JAMES

Intomation concerning

JOINSON continues to furnish detailed

the current operation of policy in

Kansas City, Miacoust.

PCI FOWARD N. STAVART and PCI DAVID FRIDAY, both

furniched

Intormation concerning polley matters.

The following In a cumory of Information furniahed.

by KC 737-C%

Stuce $/15/68:

DORRIS LUDIN was at the Toy Shop and indicated be

would love for Calsfornia

this date

(3/15/02), bat vould

roturn to Ransas City prior to Labor Day.

ELaIN furnished

intornation reflecting his addrese phile in California.

On 8/16/62,

nicholas civilks was at the foy Shop

and

made several telephone calls.

He made an appotatent

with

an individual by

tho name of PHIL (LNU) to neot hin et

9:00 p.M,

that date to give him sonothing.

Spot check

Instituted

that date failed

I to reflect CIVELIA was at location

indicatod at that time.

On 8/37/62, 3. C. RESUMAN

individual engaged in

and

another unkaown

convorsation pertaining to goubling

activities of

another andividual,

On 8/20,21,22/6%, no pertinent activity.

In rogard to BC 743-09,

the agont to whow transcription

of loge

bas been

assigned was transterred during the pertinent

poriod and neu assignents vere

• immodiotely made.

However,

summary of information vill xot

no included in this conmunteation,

but pill bo includod in the nent regular communication to the

Bureau. All pertinent information derivod from this source

roceived appropriato attention

although infommation

hay aột

bave beon transcribed:

DocId: 32314940

Page

---

