# docid-32309256

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10298-10043

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2824-103, 104, 105

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO :

SAC, DL

TITLE:

DATE: 10/23/1964

PAGES:

20

SUBJECTS :

JFC, ASSOC, LCN, WHEREABOUTS, INSTR, CRIMINAL ACT,

RES, FISUR, TOLL CALLS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 2 RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32309256

Page

1

---

## Page 2

FD-9'8 (Fier. 31-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

JOSEPH FRANCIS CAVELLO, ala

DATE

2/9/65

REPORT MADE BY

SA JOHN B. HOTIS

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/18/64 - 2/3/65

AR

TYPIO BY

REFERENCES: Report of SA IVAN D. LEE, Dallas, 12/15/64.

Los Angeles airtel to Bureau, 1/15/65.

LOs Angeles letter to Dallas, 12/21/65.

-P-

LEADS

Unless otherwise specified, all offices receiving leads

will identify subscribers to telephone numbers indicated, conduct

appropriate credit and crininal checks and review office indices

for pertinent information. In addition, appropriate local sources

and informants should be contacted in an effort to determine nature

of subscribers' association with CIVELLO and extent of their involve-

ment, if any, in criminal activities.

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. LO 1-0700 called on 1126/64.

ECIAL AGEN

IN CHARG

APPROVED

MADE:

COPIES→ Bureau (92-R824)

- UsA, fort Worth,

- Chicago (92-351)

2- Houston (94-192)

2- Las Vegas

2- Little Rock

2- New Orleans

(92-40)

3- Dallas (92-36)

Texas

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY..

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD._.

HOW FWD. ..

.-i

67 FEB 181865

Peptilices

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES HELOW

72+2824+105

6

REG- 102

FFR

75 1965

NOTATIONS

DocId: 32309256

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TTFI

17:8 662

DL 92-36

r...

of any contacts that he might have with the criminal element

were

contacted on the below

dates and advised they had no

information which would indicate that CIVELLO is presently

engaged in criminal activities:

INFORMANTS

DATES

DL 181-C-TE

DL 185-C-TE

DL 197-C

DL 140-C

January 11, 1965

January 12, 1965

January 25,

1965

February 1, 1965

All of the above informants were contacted by

SA'S IVAN D. LEE and ROBERT M. BARRETT.

On 1/13/65, LA 4448-C-TE advised that during a

DESIMONE, "Boss" of the Los

Angeles "Brugad" represented the

smaLler

Western "Brugads" before the "Commissione" on

those occasions when a Western US representative was necessary.

After such meetings, according to LICATA, it was the

responsibility of DESIMONE to relay the instructions of the

"Commissione" to the "Bosses" of other Western "Brugads."

LICATA did not further identify such groups.

He mentioned

that DESIMONE bad numerous expenses in connection with these

trips.

He stated that DESIMONE had to go "out east" at

least a hall dozen times last year and alter such trips, he nad

to relay instructions to certain other "Bosses."

LICATA did

not further identify such contacts except to mention that

DESIMONE had among other contacts, relayed some "Commissione"

instructions to "the Boss in Texas," on at least one occasion.

(It should be noted that in earlier interviews by Bureau Agents,

CIVELLO has, identified FRANK DESIMONE as his cousin.

both CIVELLO and DESIMONE were attendants at the Appalachin

meeting in Novemkr, 1957.) LICATA also mentioned "our group"

in Texas, but did not elaborate further on the matter.

IA 4448-C-TE further advised

I that DESIMONE was to be

in New York on 1/25/65, to attend a meeting of the "Commissione."

Subsequent to this meeting, he reportedly will relay certain

instructions to "Bosses" of certain other smaller "Brugads."

Periodic surveillances were maintaind by Bureau Agents of

subject's residence at 4908 Gulfstream, Dallas, and the Airway

Liquor store,

3122 W. Mockingbird Lane, Dallas, on 1/20 - 26/65.

CIVELLO was observed

at his residence by SA JOHN B. HOTIS on 1/23

and 25/65; subject was accompanied on both occasions by his

brother-in-law ROSS MUSSO.

-

-

COVER PAGE

92-2824-1055

DocId: 32309256

Page 3

---

## Page 4

DI 92-36

On 1/21/65, MRS. VITA MUSSO (protect IdentIty?:

owner of Robinwood Liquor Store, 2437 Inwood Avenue, Dallas,

advised SA IVAN D. LEE that JOSEPH CIVELLO has borrowed

money from her late husband ROSS in October, 1957; in the

amount of $1,000, claiming that he would pay it back within

tWO Or

three

weeks.

She stated that her husband passed away

approximately two weeks later and that CIVELLO waited until

March, 1958, before repaying the loan, at which time he

gave her the money in cash.

(It is noted that CIVELLO

borrowed the money approximately one month prior to his

nois on ce

appearance at the Appalachin meeting in New York which was

held on 11/14/57.) MRS. MUSSO further advised she is

aware of no business connection which may have existed

between her late husband and CIVELLO.

By letter dated 12/23/64, Legat,

Rome, advised

the Central Bureau, Criminal Division, Italian National

Police (INP), Rome, Italy, furnished a list of names and

identifying data and requested that they be advised of any

criminal convictions and pending criminal actions against

any of the individuals named.

Included in this list was the

name of JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO.

The INP explained that they

presently have all of the individuals named on a watch list

so as to preclude their entrance into Italy and had requested

the above information in order to update their list.

Indices of the Dallas Office reflect the following

information with regard to persons listed as registrants of

vehicles which were observed by Bureau Agents during the

surveillance of CIVELLO's activities:

FRANK LA COKE, a self-employed builder, is a

known close associate of several Dallas Italian hoodlum

figures.

He reportedly built a home in 1955 for PHILIP S.

BOSCO,

the estimated value of which was $25,000 (DL 92-331)•

On 4/2/63, confidential source JEROME J. CRANE advised that

FRANK LA COKE, along with CIVELLO, PHILIP BOSCO, and others,

attended

the funeral of JOHN MICHAEL CARCELLI,

FBI #4955844, who had committed suicide.

Among the signatures of persons in attendance at

the Rosary of PHILLIP CIVELLO, deceased father of subject,

in Dallas, Texas, on 4/30/59, were those of JO JO LA BARBA

_D-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32309256 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERA

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE, OF CASE

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO aka

SUREAU OF IN

¿TIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DATE

12/15/64

REPORT MADE BY

IVAN D. LEE

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

10/25 - 12/10/64

AR

TYPED BY

rmb

REFERENCES:

LEADS

Report of SA IVAN D. LEE at Dallas dated 7/28/64.

Bureau letter to Dallas dated 10/23/64.

-p. -

DALLAS

AT DALLAS, TEXAS. (1) Will continue to contact

sources and informants acquainted with or familiar with the

activities of subject in an effort to cover his activities.

(2)

Will consider interviewing Mrs. ROSS MUSSO,

owner of Robinwood Liquor Store, 2734 Inwood Road, in an

effort to ascertain if she possibly has potential as a source

to be used against CIVELLO..

(It should be noted this Mrs.

ROSS MUSSO is not related to CIVELLO's brother-in-law,

ROSS MUSSO.)

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

Of CHAGEN

Bureau (92-2824)

I - USA, Fort Worth

2 - Dallas (92-36)

HARZACULE

BEDBIRED

AGENCY.

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED RE PAT, ET

GEE ST

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD..

HOW FWD. -

7 0D

^21964

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2824-

1104

REC &

6 DEC 17 1964

NOTATIONS

DocId: 32309256 Page 5

---

## Page 6

DL 92-36

(3)

Will continue to monitor toll calls charged

to telephones available to the subject.

(4) Will attempt to ascertain the sales transactions

for the house sold at 5311 Denton Drive and the house purchased

at 4908 Gulfstream, as mentioned in the details of this report.

ADMI NI STRATIVE

As per referenced Bureau letter, Dallas initiated

investigation. of CIVELLO in an effort to ascertain his activities

and contacts. No information has been developed to indicate

that subject is traveling outside of the Dallas area or is

active with the criminal element in the Dallas area. Spot

surveillances conducted on CIVELLO since 10/25/64 indicae that

CIVELLO spends a considerable amount of time at his residence

and occasionally visits the Airway uiquor store, 3123 west

mockingbird Lane, owned by his brother, CHARLES

CIVELLO.

Since referenced report, no information has been

received by other FBI field offices to indicate that CIVELLO

any contact with the criminal element in other divisions.

Spot surveillances were conducted on CIVELLO on the

following dates when he was not observed: 11/5,6,9,13,17,19,

surveillances were conducted in the area of CIVELLO'S new

observed parked in the garage; however, CIVELLO was not observed

nor was any information obtained to indicate that he had de-

parted his residence.

The following informants in the Dallas, Texas, area,

who are acquainted with CIVELLO or who are in position to know

ot any contacts that he may have with the criminal element,

advised they had no information to indicate that CIVELLO is

active with the criminal element in the Dallas, Texas, area:

DL 181-C-TE

DL 185-C-TE

Du 140-C

DL 170-C

DI 197-C

DI 208-PC

DL 2-C

PCI SOL DALY

PCI JAMES SALES

Confidential Source JERRY CRANE

= B =

Cover

Page

908-10013

DocId:32309256

Page 6

---

## Page 7

DI 92-36

The above informants were contacted by SAs IVAN D.

LEE and ROBERT M. BARRETT.

Surveillances as mentioned in the details of this

report vere conducted by SAs LEE and BARRETT.

The records of the Southwestern Bell Telephone

Company as mentioned in the details of this report

were

furnished for review by Mrs. BULA M. SETTLE, Secretary,

office of the Security Supervisor.

INFORMANTS

DL T-1 is JERRY CRANE, Crane Funeral Home, who

has requested his identity be protected.

-

C*

Cover

Page

DocId: 32309256

Page

---

