# docid-32302985

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10282-10497

HQ

105-82933-22, 23, 24, 25

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE : 12/01/1967

PAGES:

16

SUBJECTS :

DLH, TELCAL, ACA, RES, ASSOC, MED, EMP, RCK, CP ACT,

DESCR, MIL SERV, REL, BKG, WHEREABOUTS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC 3 MEMO, 2 LHM, 2 ADMIN PAGES

v9.1

DocId: 32302985

10

Page 1

---

## Page 2

WAr 962EE0. 10

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6 a

UNITED STATES COVERNMENT CONFIDENTIAI

Memora.

dum

TO

- DIRECTOR, FBI (105-82933)

DATE:

4/19/68

FROM

SAC, MIAMI (105-8435) (RUC)

SUBJECT

31A3U

80P 45/113

DENNIS LYNN

HARBER, aka

IS - CUBA

DO: MIAMI ONE ESPON

Re Omaha letter with enclosure

here

poleme

1/26/68.

Enclosed herewith are 10 copies of a LHM

dated and captioned as above. Two copies are enclosed for Omaha.

Copies of enclosed LHM are being disseminated

locally to the following Federal Agencies:

ALL INTORMATION CONTAIN

HEREIN IS UNGEASSIFIED

EXCES WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMAEON

IN THIS DOCUMENT. K 7-30-9

INS, Miami

8-27-9

State Department (Cuban Affairs), Miami

U. S. Border Patrol, Miami

WISO, Charleston, S. C.

U. S. Customs, Miami

U. S. Customs,

Region II

SUD/KSR

OSI, Robins Air Force Base, Ga.

CIA, Miami

USAFAD, Hialeah

U. S. Secret Service, Miami

111th M.I. Group, Orlando

Declassity on: OADP/29/35

U. S. Coast Guard, Miami

Mn 1-1 is MM 639-s.

The enclosed LHM is classified Confidential

to better protect a source of continuing value.

Inasmuch as subject

is confined to the Psychosis

Ward at the Veterans Administration Hospital, Miami, Florida,

no further investigation of the subject is being conductegy

2- Bureau (Enc. 104N(RH) UNDE

165-41433-

2

- Omaha

(Enc. 2) (100-6327)

(RM)L. 43

1 - Miami

10e lita end,

RJD: pb

New Qillaus

to

12 APR 24 1968

Army/Navy/Air Vorce/DIA/Que

Date_5-3

5010 - 108-01

MAY 7 1958 U.S. Savings Bonus Regula

Mon pra Raurall Savings Plan

LATIN AMERICAN

119:1

AND COPY OF

' ENCI FILED

DocId: 32302985 Page 2

---

## Page 3

15

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-107-5

AY 1962 EDITION

SA GEÑ. REG. NO. :

UNITED STATES

ERNMENT

Memorandum

(SECRET

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

OBJECTION

AND/OR

A INFORMATION

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-82933)

FAG, ONANA (200-6327) C6)

DATE: 1/26/68

i NO

HAS

CIA

DECLASSIFIC

RELEASE

IN THIS DOCUME

DENNIS LYNN HARBER,

aka

IS - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Hands.

Re Bureau airtel to Omaha 11/3/67; Declas

Miami letter to Bureau 12/22/67.

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies of

an LHM

summarizing background and activities of captioned subject.

One copy is furnished to Miami since subject may return

to that area.

Omaha, by FD 376.

One copy is being furnished to Secret Service,

54094-3

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

OADR

16,326

Classfied by

Declassity

LHM is classified confidential since data reported

source of

from fourth source could reasonably fasuat in identification I

thereof.

continuing value and compromise the future effectiveness

Nations

It also reflects Bureaus interest in a United

official. ](5)

OMENT DIA

INFORMANTS

Identity

First Source:

Location

BURTON VAN HORN FOREMAN,

Ом 100-6327-3

160 Claremont Avenue

New York City

CLASS BY 566854nde

Instructor Columbia University

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(request)

Copy to: CIA/StatO/RAOJSD OGA/ DEA

Second Source:

IC/05I/ASC1/352<0-330-6327-1

• SÃ SECREI SERVIC

UNREC COPY AND GORY

FRANK SISEL

by routing slip for info

Admissions Office Dated-l

VA Hospital

Kansas City, Mo.,

(request)

Third Source:

American Consulate

REG-79

veracruz

2)

- Bureau

- Miamic

DCh:Skd

: 6 1968

(SECRET"

by rouges slip for

Mato

date 2 -

by NHa Ta

O action

Ом 100-6327-10

105-82933-24

LEE TAR SANO LA C8

: 29: 1968

HIET DIA

DocId: 32302985

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET:

OM 100-6327

Fourth Sourge:

Miami 639-5] (4)

Fifth Source:

Mrs. ROSLYN LIESHITZ

Legal Division

VA Hospital

252 7th Avenue

New York City (request)

Sixth Source:

Mr. DON CONNELLEY

Registrar

VA Hospital

Omaha, Nebraska

(request)

OM 100-6327-13

OM 100-6327-3

OM 100-6327-9

Confidential informants who were contacted in

November, 1959, and could furnish no information were

NY 384-S*, NY 367-S, NY 646-S*, MY 559-5*• (5)

Inasmuch as subject is an admitted alcoholic and

known homosexual, no request is being made to interview him.

It is also noted

that he did not tell

the truth to Agents

during a prior interview in May,

1959.

VA

REVIEWED BY FEWJFK TASK FORCE

L

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DEMAL

SECRETI

585-18688

DooId: 32302985

Page 4

---

## Page 5

CONE

NTIAL

' UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET.

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

51344

Cassited

Declassify

oh.

05 mon

Omaha, Nebraska

January 26, 1968

#211,326

Classified b

SPEBTAIGA

Declassify

on: 8A0R3/29/85

Г6b8

1125

CLASSIFTED 3Y

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

Re:

DENNIS LYN HARBER

& source who has furnished

reliable information in the past advised that at a

party:

in New lock in dune,

1958, Dennis Harber, 454 West 22nd

street,

New

English instructor at the

BerLit School of Languages in New York, and Leonid A. T5

Kovaler became quite friendly.

At this party Harber

became quite intoxicated and started talking about

commundsm.

He appeared

to speak with authority and

knowledge

on comunist activities in Spain.

The source

advised that he

had heard harber had undergone psychiatric

treatment in

veterans Administration (VA) Hospital

In the New York City are.

The publication

(start of the

united (5)

nations secretariat; Report of the Secretary L&

General" dated September,

1959, reflects

that Soviet Leonid Koraley was

employed (5]

as a

trans ator-trainee at the U..

Secretariat. 0)

on

May 3,

1959,

an individual identifying

himself

Dennis I. Harber telephoned the FBI office

in Kansas City and advised that he had spent several

years in South America

and in Cuba and had been

unofficially

connected

with & political group in

Cuba which had opposed Fidel Castro..

barber advised that

his home was New

York and

that he

had arrived in Kansas

City,

Missouri, of April

1959, and checked in at

the Pickwick Hotel. About

11:30 PI. On April 28, 1959,

the hotel and

was stopped by four men who

spoke to him in spanish.

these men had

and with the guns forced

him into & car and

drove

away.

said he jumped from

the

car and

hurt

hinself but

escaped from these men

CONTIN

AIT INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEN

EXCEFT WASTE ET

from automatit

cation

'SECRET

ENCLOSURE

105-82932.24

DocId: 32302985

Page 5

---

