AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
“PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1
Doclda:32309723 Page 1

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-10300-10089

HQ

CR 62-75 147-29-604

Document Information

FBI
SAC, MM
DIRECTOR, FBI

06/07/1955
50

NRO, ASSOC, HOODLUMS, POLIT TIES, OC, POLICE,
GAMBLING, CRIM ACT, HANGOUTS, BIRGE GANG

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

05/04/1998

INDEFINITE

INC RPT

22

Date: 4/27/201



au DIVISION -
General Anvestioatiue eee

annual GtiP report of: ‘this division cove.
December 1, 1954, to June 1,°1955,

It is
be furnished to
as many of the i i 1s mention
between Havana, uba, and Miami, fi

DocId:32309723 Page 2


CONTRDENTIAL
BWG: efs \
MM 62-1273

GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE “INTELLIGENCE FILE

/
/

BROWARD COUNTY, FLORIDA '
ber 1, 1 to June 1,' 1

Information compiled herein relating to the
territory covered by thé Resident Agency, Fort Lauderdalé
Florida, embracing Broward County, was obtained by Speciat
Agent BEN W. GRIGSBY through contacts with reliable law
enforcement officers and other sources during official
investigations.

A. ORGANIZED ‘GANGS

Investigation and cofitact with informants and
sources.of information has failed to give any indication
that there are any organized gangs.in Broward County.

MM 322-C advised on January 24, 1955, that MEYER |
LANSKY, FBI Number 791783, of the Eastern Criminal Syndicate,
was in Hollywood during the week prior to January 24, 1955,
and was staying at the Toscanny Motel.on Ocean Boulevard,
South of Hollywood. He stated MEYER was a fréquent visitor
of his brother JACK LANSKY who maintains a residence in
Hollywood. He stated that MEYER LANSKY recently purchased a.
‘ ,.30 per cent interest in the Toscanny Motel for his son BARRY
¢ “LANSKY. This informant has stated that JACK LANSKY has
‘repeatedly told him that. he is no longer interested in getting
involved in any gambling setups in Florida, under the present
situation.

B. INDIVIDUAL RACKATEERS AND MOBSTERS

aa : VINCENT ALO, with aliases, 1248 Monroé Street,
“Hollywood, Florida, FBI Number_854810._

An informant of the Miami Office advised on

February 14, 1955, that VINCENT ALO was at that time residing -

in Hollywood, Florida. Informant stated that ALO told him

Wj
CONNDENTIAL

DocId:32309723 Page 3


cNTIAL

MM 62-1273

La,

MM 322=-C ad don January 24, 1955, that FRANK
is a part owner of the*Tuscanny Motel, in Hollywood; in
partnership with MEYER LANSKY. Informant stated that he does
not believe 'that FRANK will attempt to start any gambling
at the Toscanny Motel this year because of LANSKY'S interest
in this motel. He stated that LANSKY. purchased his interest
in. the motel for’ his son BARRY, and. does not want gambling :
operating there. © : a . : :

JOSEPH*FLAX, 1544 Jefferson § Streét, Hollywood,
Florida. ace ae :

Chief PHIL THOMPSON, Hollywood Police Department,
advised on May 18, 1955, that during the past winter season
FLAX was conducting a bookmaking operation from his office at
1544 Jefferson Street.

a
DONALD JOSEPH GALATI, 826 North 26th Avenue,Hollywood,
Florida, FBI#563019 By baerwistentstcaieriuseiestei 7

etcee “Captain LESTER HOLT, NA, Fort Lauderdale Police i
Department, advised on May 18, 1955, that GALATI is still the *
owner qf the Dollhouse. on South Federal Highway in Fort Lauder- +
dale. HOLT stated that GALATI has not. been active in book=
making activites in Fort Lauderdale since his arrest ona
bookmaking charge on February 14, 1954. HOLT stated that
‘GALATI was acquited on the bookmaking charge in connection with
that arrest but stated that he was convicted on a charge of
frequenting a gambling house.

J.BC°GATES, 5052 Pembroke Road, Hallandale, Florida,
FBI#135771. oeeeem : j

CLAUDE TINDALL, Chief Criminal Députy, Broward
County Sheriff's Office, advised that GATES, a Negro, has
operated the bolita business in Hallandale among the Negro
residents for a number of years. TINDALL stated that GATES
works froma beer and wine tavern operated by him on NW 10th
Avenue, Hallandale, and has been arrested on numerous occasions
for his bolita activities.

’ CLYDE/BROSS ,' 1619 Fletither Street, Hollywood, Florida,
FBI¥655579. a age

+ elo

CONTIOENTIAL

DocId:32309723 Page 4


CONT PRE AL
MM 62-1273

information was Avajlable as to GEBR'S background. :

MEYER LANSKY, 903 Hollywood Boulevard, Hollywood,
Florida, FBI#791783. "| ;

MM 322-C advised on January 24, 1955, that MEYER
LANSKY came to ‘Hollywood, Florida, during the week of
January 24, 1955, and was staying at the Toscanny Motel on
Ocean Boulevard. Informant speculated that LANSKY would
probably stay in Hollywood, at thé motel, for the winter in
view of the fact that he set up liis sone BARRY with a 30 per
cent interest in this motel. This informant advised that
LEON FRANK, another part owner “of the Toscanny Motel would”
like to set up gambling operations ‘in the mote] but stated he
did not believe that FRANK would start any gambling activities
inasmuch as LANSKY is opposed opposed to it. °° ~ oF

In November, 1954, MM 322-C advised that MBYER LANSKY
left Hollywood, Florida, to attend a meeting in New York City,
which meeting thé informant believed to be'a result of the
Averill Harriman’s suceeasful contest for Govertior of ‘New York
State. The New York Office subsequently advised that informants*~
NY204-C, NY207-C, and NY 163-€, were unable to substantiate or «
negate this information. oo . .

. ' SY °283eC, “lds Vegaé, Nevada, advised that the
ttinderbird Hétel, Las Vegas, Nevada, is the object of an
investigation bythe Nevada State Tax Combission ahd for thia
réason MBYBR‘ and’ JACK- LANSKY and GEORGE*SADLOW,: all ‘of whon .
have undisclosed interests in the operation of the hotel, have
been avoiding Nevada to keep from testifying concerning their
interésts inthe hotél. =" Coes

SADLOW has always represented the LANSKYS in this
operation although both ER and JACK visited the hotel on >
three or four occasions each years SADLOW has pushed his own °°
men in key positions in this operation, among them JERRY SHAD .
asthe day "pit" boss; GEORGE-ROSEN, graveyard shift boss; and.
JACK-METLER, swingshift boss. Former prize fighter GENE

‘BELMONT is greeter at the hotel. This informant thought that
both LANSKYS and SADLOW might dispose of théér-interest in this
hotel 4f the Bax COmmiséion sought them out.

oo

CONADENTIAL
\

Docld:32309723 Page 5


MH 6201273

~ The New York Office has advised that MEYER LANSKY
was residing at thé Egsex House, 59th Street, and 6th Avenue,

New York ¢

ity, although othér sources advised that he con:

tinugs to maintaif his apartment at 36 Edst’ 36th Street, ~~

New York C:

advised on
1955, at t
making est
pending.

Hallandale
Aprst 26
. TUMBARELLO
HALL state

one bookmaker in ‘the’ Hal lan

ity” - be
; pe & . :
MICHAEL LUCAS, Hollywood, Florida, FBI Number 61381A.

Chief PHIL THOMPSON, Hollywood Police Department,

May 18, 1955, that LUCAS was drreated on February 17,
he Talley-Ho Bar and charged with operating a book-=
ablishment .'“He stated that this’ charge’ 1a° stiIi~*

ALPHONSE MARZANO, with aliases, 729 NE Third Street,
, Florida, FBI#}88033. Sheriff AMOS HALL adviead on
1955, that MARZANO, along with DON ORLANDO and TONY
were operating as bookmakers in Hallandale, Florida.
4 that in. his’ opinion MARZANO was. probably the number

dle’ atea.’

HENRY J;~MAS6I; , 1430 Funston Street, Hollywood,

Florida, FBI¥311364.-° | “

MASCI has
and Hallan

Lauderdale

Chief PHIL THOMPSON, advised on May 18, 1955, that
operated a bookmaking operation in both Hollywood
dale, Florida, during the past winter season. .

CHARIRS-"MELFI, 413 North Andrews Avenue, Fort
» Florida, PDPAPILI8. erneene:

ROBERT SMITH, Fort Lauderdale Police Department,

Sete
advised’ on Ry 18, 1955, that MELFI is now deceased. SMITH

stated tha

it" I died‘in Décenber, 1954. .. ;
HARRY MEYERS; 4800 South Federal Highway, Fort Lauderdale,

Florida, S0#5422725.

On December’ 24, 1954, MM 547=C advised that HARRY

MEYERS, owner of the‘Torch Club, a strip tease club, located at

3800 South

Federal] Highway in Fort Lauderdale, was bringing

tele up fy Miami, who ara believed to be furnished b:
gins om " 3B Taine area believed to be furnished by

Miami, Fie

215, outstanding vice operator in the
vida ‘apaae “ : :

ela

CONNDENTIAL

Docld:32309723 Page 6


MM 62-1273

On January 24, 1955, this same informant advised
that he had determined that the rumor concerning the opening
of three places in Broward County for open gambling was false.
He stated he did not believe open gambling was going to be
allowed to operate in the County because of the fact that
AMOS HALL, Broward County Sheriff, would not go along with
gambling, in the County.

This same informant advised on January 14, 1955,
that there were several bookmakers present) operating in

the County but that action was very slow. le also stated that
a bust i put erap game was being perated in the Hollywood area
by HARRY CAMPBELL Hollywood Dphe2l, RALPH BLACKBURN, FBI?
519 297 and WALTER"BUDY AGGERTY ,Hollywood PD#A-10. This
information was confirmed by Detective GENE RYAN of the
Hollywood Police Department, on January 13, 1955, who added
that CAMPBELL, BLACKBURN and HAGGERTY attempted to. raht two
adjoining rooms at the Hampshire House on South Ocean
Boulevard in Hollywood for a bust-out operation but stated
they were turned down by the owner.

On January 24, 1955, MM322-€ advised that MEYER
and JACK LANSKY, members of the Eastern Criminal Syndicate
had advised him that they were not interested in any gambling
operations in South Florida under the present situation.

On May 18, 1955, Sgt. ROBERT SMITH, Fort Lauderdale
Police Department, advised that MAX FEINBERG, formerly of
Gary, Indiana, was operating a bust-out crap game at Fort
Lauderdale, Florida. SMITH stated that in former years
FEINBERG had operated his crap game at the Broward Hotel
in that City but that during this past winter season he was
not allowed to operate in that hotel.

Chief PHIL THOMPSON, Hollywood Police Department,  -
advised on May 18, 1955, that he knew of no gambling operation
in the Hollywood area outside of bookmakers. He stated that
HALLIE STANGER, FBI#519297, who had operated sneak gambling —
in the Hollywood area for the past few seasons,is presently
residing in Las Vegas, Nevada. THOMPSON stated thai he had

ait

= 26 =

CONFINENTIAL

Docld:32309723 Page 7


MM 62-1273
CUM:1e

meangreNones
FBI # 2200482

He is a tout and narcotics addict who is presently
residing here at the Angele Hotel, Miami, Florida. He is
originally from Chicago, Illinois, and has been in and out
of the Miami area on various occasions. JONES. recently advised
that he is operating as a con-man with DANNYACUMMINGS, alias
DANIELTCUNNINGHAM, an old-time card cheater and con-man, who <©7#
also currently resides at the Angele Hotel, JONES is also —_
believed to be engaged in narcotics activity with_ISADORE

-#SHADLETSKY, was., FBI # 599129, who is presently operating

the Club Carnival in Tampa, Florida.

GEORGE?LEMOLE 5
FBI # 795088 bee

This individual, who has a record for burglary and
theft, has been associating with MM-590-C at Miami Beach,
Florida.during the past winter. He was working with his wife
RUTH+LEMOLE as a prowler and left Miami about February 5th or
6th, 1955 to proceed to the Plaza Hotel which he operates at

.
d

Absecon, New Jersey. ye 06 EREMDLE 4
oo LES G E06 EOL e.

KENNETH “HANNA

FBI # 739132 : Ele

This hoodlum from Albany, New York was in Miami
during the past season and was connected with wire service .
activities, getting race result information out of local
race tracks.

CHARLES TOURINE,
was,, FBI # 695716

This Top Hoodlum, who formerly resided at the
Casablanca Hotel, Miami Beach, Florida, recently moved to :
the Isle de Capri.Hotel, 79th Street Causeway, Miami,- Florida.

a .

GEORGE VAINTRAUB,
alias "THE RUSSIAN"

He is a well-known New York City gambler who resided
at the Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach, Florida, during the

2866

conNDENTIAL

| Docra: 32309723 Page 8



:NQENTIAL

MM 62-1273
CJM:1e

stayed at the Hampshire House Apartments, 6729 Indian Creek
Drive, Miami Beach, Florida. He was observed on occasions
it the cocktail lounge of the Golden Strand Hotel, Miami Beach,
orida. '
JOHN ‘DIO GUARDIA
FBI # 665273 -
He is one of the well-known hoodlum brothers known
as the DIO brothers, who were active as racketeers in the
garment district in New York City. His brother THOMAS DIO hn
GUARDIA, FBI # 920425, is not known to have been in the Miami 27.
area during the past season, but JOHN DIO GUARDIA, who is a
convieted extortionist and nephew of JIMMY*PLUMERI , alias
JINMYSBOYLE, New York City_trucking racketeer, operated the
+Sanny Isles Rest nt at 176th Street and Collins Avenue,
Miami” Beach, Florida.

Y=
‘ANTHONY STRASSE,

wae, TONY, ERS

MM-509-C advised that TONY ROGERS, as this hoodlum *
from Elizabeth, New Jersey is commonly known, is a fingerman «
for jewel robberies. He was hanging around the Dream Bar of
the Johnina Hotel, Miami Beach, Florida, and was also observed
during December, 195k, at Miami Beach night clubs.

HARRY oz Tas VOILER Lb t
FEI # 104354 Te fie
——E—ooo

VOILER, who has long been a controversial figure in

‘Miami Beach, was wrested January 17, 1955 in Miami on the basis
of a three-count indictment for perjury returned against him
by a Chicago, Illinois Grand Jury. The indictment against
VOILER, who was released under $5,000.00 bond, resulted from
his appearance on September 30, 1954 before a Grand Jury :
investigating income tax returns of MARTINCACCARDO, well-known
Chicago CAPONE Gang_hoodlum. pee Wen

; NICK HELTOPOLOUS, vail
alias NICKYAELLIOIT #0
:

He is a member of the family that dominates the

Greek Syndicate which controls-gambling in France. ELLIOTT,

fla.

* CONNIDENTIAC ® ~

Docld:32309723 Page 9


; jpn

MM 6221273
EWP: FLH

have been alleged against the mayor, or the city manager
and they are considered to be interested in and cooperative
toward good law énforcement.

A. ORGANIZED GANGS

There are no known organized gangs operating in the
St. Petersburg, Florida, or elsewhere in Pinellas County which
have headquarters in this area. All organized criminal
activity in the area covered by the St, Petersburg Resident
Ageney is operated from Tampa, Florida, a city located approx-
imately 20 miles away. This organized activity will be
reported under the heading of gambling, inasmuch as all or-
ganized activity of a criminal nature in this area is gamb-
ling.

HENRY and SANTOS TRAFFICANTE, Tampa bolita oper-
ators, who Opérateda large bolita gambling syndicate, have
been convicted as a result of this operation. All ‘members
of the TRAFFICANTE gang have been prosecuted and most of them,.
were convicted, as will be set forth later in this report.

According to MM-496-C, there are no organized
gangs or organized criminal activity in the Gulf Beach area

of Pinellas County.

PCI JOSEPH DUPUY advised that he has been around
most of the bars which appear to be likely hangouts for -

the criminal element in 5t. Petersburg, but had heard no :
conversation which would indicate that there is any organized
criminal activity in the area. This PCI stated that when

he was associated with thé hoodlum elemeht in Louisville,
Kentucky, before coming td Florida, he never heard St. Peterg-
burg, Florida mentioned as being frequented by the hoodlum +
element, which used to move frequently between Louisville,
Kehtucky, and Jacksonville, and Tampa, Florida.

: MM-416-C advised that there are no organized gangs
in the St. Petersburg area of sufficient stature to commit
big stick-ups, burglaries, or other crimes and that any such
offenees or violations’ in the St. Petersburg are would be

. handled out of Tampa, Florida.

CONFIRENTIAL = > 38 =

\ ee ee |

DocId:32309723 Page 10



COMBE TA
YM 62-1273

It 1s specifically noted at this time that all
information reported hereinafter concerning crimes has
been reported to local authorities or authorties having
primary investigative jurisdiction.

Ae ORGANIZED GANGS "
BP SL, nae
The orgarided gang as reported in the GIIF for
many years consisting of SANTO TRAFFECANTI, JR., and his
brothers, FRANK C.,:84M 6., FANO C., and HENRY, has been
greatly curtailed during this period as well as past
periods in view of the fact that the United States has
moved against these individuals as a result of an indictment
charging conspiracy of the Wagering Act against SANTO HENRY
—PERRONE, SAM ENZO, and six St. Petersburg Negroes who
were "big men in the gang", as well as 23 other Pinellas
County Negroes who were previously arrested by local
authorities in St. Petersburg and Tampa, Florida.
fioae bode ery ot eR, ¢
It will be reported hereinafter that MM 416 PC
reported that the TRAFFICANTES conviction, that is SANTO
and HENRY, in Pinellas County, for the bribery of a St.
Petersburg Detective, would never come to trial inasmuch 7
as there were numerous reversible errors and that further- «
more the TRAFFICANTES contact, CHARLIE-WALL(as above) was
to reach D.K.YROBERTS, of the Florida Supreme Court, and
their appeal would be taken care of. 7

Since the above group dominated the Italian
Syndicate at Tampa, Florida, which has been in power since
approximately 1940, numerous smaller groups have come into
action and these groups are reported under the heading
GAMBLING inasmuch as they are not all organized in one body,
according to WALTER HEINRICH, NA, Tampa Police Department.

Another hoodlum organized element that had been ~*~
in Tampa, Florida, operating the Paper Doll Nightclub at
1200 West Calf Street, namely MOE-ROCKFELD, FBI#291641, :
HARRY SOSNICK, FBI#850394, and MURRAY SEGAL have all left, .
sold out the. Paper Doll Nightclub, and gone to Miami, Florida,
where they allegedly had a connection with the 5 O'Clock Club,
pr the Paddock Club, according to Miami Confidential MM 439-€,
«aqho has furnished reliable information in the past.

al2o

compen

DocId:32309723 Page 11


JWR ee aoe

CONDENTIAL

MM 62-1273

On May 19, 1955, Captain HENRICH advised he had
made a visit to Miami, Florida, and had contacted MOE
ROCKFELD and HARRY SOSNICK at the 5 O'Clock Club, Miami
Beach, Florida, and ascertained that MOE ROCKFELD was to
take over:a night club in West Palm Beach, Florida, and that
HARRY SOSNICK was to operate a night club at Palm Beach,
Florida. HEINRICH stated this information came from
ROCKFELD but that he would not verify it. Sarim PPAL ral

SRLv foreet A Obehed 44}

The remaining group in Tampa, Florida, which are }
ISIDORE SHADLETSKY, was., FBI # 599120, SALVADORXAMARENA,. -  /%/
wa, FRI # 167160-B, SAM POLLACK and ALLEN HIRSCH, operate a >
night club of the same notorious caliber as the Paper Doll
Night Club at 1204 Franklin Street, known as the Club Carnival.

According to MM-439-C, who has furnished reliable
information.in the past, an individual named DANN¥XLEWIS, “
an ex-conyict from_New_York, hangs out at the Club Carnival, Fr
as well as an individual known as DANNY7RIO, an ex-Chicago tee
hoodlum and convict and previously such ‘individuals as “—
FREDDIE FINK, FBI_ #280445 (shot by New York Policeman in New. ¢,2
York), JOE PELUSA DIAZ, and SALVATORE LORENZO, hang out at thiss
club. t

B. INDIVIDUAL RACKETEERS AND MOBSTERS

J of BEDAMI FB

thi

This individual, a well known Tampa hoodlum, is con-
tinually reported by local law enforcement officers as being
involved in some robberies; however, they have never con~ -
victed him and it is alleged by a reliable informant, ace
cording to ROSS ANDERSON (whose informmt is known to SA
LABADIE to be ZANEXHOPKINS, was., FBI # 3833509), that BEDAMI
is closely associated with a cousin of his, who pulls stick- »
ups, named MANUEEXGISPETH. is

Z 7
LOUIS*RODRIGUEZ*ALCALA, wa cue 143°
Louis Alcala, FBI ¢ 1310741 ~~, ye

- 173 -

CONFIPEN TIAN

| DocIa: 32309723 Page 12


MM 62-1273

rae
This individual owns the Pelican Drive-Inn,

2109 North Dale Mabry Highway,and resides at 2317 Spruce
Streét, Tampa. —He-is-a-white male, 35 years of age, who
was convicted in February, 1955, for after-hour sales at
the Drive-Inn. He was defended by Attorney JOHNXGOFF and
it is noted that DOLORES¢DORIS, a barmaid at the Inn, and
associates CELESTINOXMARTINEZ and S (ONDELLO testified
for him. ALCALA continues to be a fi#ry strong-arm hoodlum
in the West Tampa section.

ANGELO?CALI

This individual is a white male, operator of the
Willow Sundries, 402 North Willow Street, Tampa, and
according to HEINRICH, he is antagonistic to law enforcemat
and is operating in bolita. He is the alleged brother of
VINCENTXCALI, who has been convicted in the past for the
murder of ARMANDOFLOREZ , wa Al\Flacco, deceased hoodlum. =r’,

JIMMY-“BRUNO

ye This indivi dual resides at,.2521.Union_Street, ”
Tampa ,and manages the*fed Mill Night.Club, 1715 West_Platt =,

Street\, which was formerly theffrolics. This individual is —~

known as a former bartender at the Sands Bar which is operated

by FANO TRAFFICANTE, brotherrof SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

# BEENY7ALVAREZ

' This individual is a former hoodlu,; thief, robber
and ex-bondsman. He was shot and killed in January, 1955, .
in the doorway of the Granada Cafe. HENRYSMENENDEZ | is’ a known .
pimp who has formerly been interviewed by SA LABADIE in the FU
“WROY PARKER RAKER, was., WSTA" case, and it is alleged that

ALVAREZ was putting pressure on pimps in the Tampa area. ~

SALVATORE RED TTT ALTANO, wase, FBI # LAOL6Y eo J
; Sa ane

This individual no longer dominates Italian hoodlums
in the Tampa area and, according to MM-416-PC, this individual

: 7 17h -

CONFIDENTIAL

i

| DocIa: 32309723 Page 13



Ws ae Oe ooo

Ne

CONFDENTIAL

MM 62-1273

purchased a large home in Mexico City and is planning
to stay there in the event of a tax evasion case attempted
against him by the United States Internal Revenue Bureau.

x
AUGUSTINE” PRIMO LAZZARA, FBI # 210606A

This individual, according to Captain WALTER
HEINRICH, NA, Vice Squad, and RALPH W. MILLS, Operating
Director of the Hillsborough County Crime Commission, is
presently operating as a,bookmaker in the Tampa area. His

, brothers, NELSON and WOEFEAZZARA, allegedly have a small bolita

operating going on at the present time and their peddlers are
unknown. He continues to operate the Yellow House Bar on
15th Street in Ybor City Section of Tampa. His brother, JOHN

PePAZZARA , is known to be the vice president of the Broadway fill.

“Bank of Tampa in Ybor City. Further, ccording to MM-439-C,
' who has furnished reliable information in the, past, this

individual is associated closely with CHARLIEAGREGORY, also
- known as CUCKOO, who operates the Old Fort Restaurant in

: Tampa.
: Fib
Captioned individual is closely associated with -
SANTO TRAFFICANTE, ANGELOXBEDAMI, and is closely associated t
with such individuals as CIRO}BEDAMI who is allegedly LAZZARA's

strongarm man for operations in Augusta, Georgia.

4 ,
FREUAFINK, FBI #280445 "fe vaue! Lube

ho This individual, according,to numerous law enforce-
io ment authorities in Tampa, Florida, is a well known pimp and
racketeer in the Tampa area. Hé, however, went to New York and ~
¥ phere was shot in the head by a police officer in Brooklyn,
ew York.

MM-439-C described this individual as a small-time;
loud-mouthed pimp who arranges stag shows for any individuals::
desiring them. Furthermore, he moved into alleged legitimate

the head_representative.of_.American Guild Variety Artists in |
L the west coast of Tampa, and books all theatrical acts in
night clubs in Tampa and the West Coast.

- 175-=

 CONADENTIA

operation in that he is a representative of ABYFAST, who is © 77.

Wk _

DocId:32309723 Page 14


COW AOENTIAL
SMM 62-1273

xe
, BON et a giinses BON “LAWSON, DONALD MANNING, DON

This individual is identified through correspondence
with other offices as a "queer shaker® using a detective
routine. He resides at 908 East Hamilton, Tampa, Florida,
and can be located through his uncle, BARL\ LOWER, the
Detective at Maas Brothers Department Store, Tampa, Florida,
who also resides at 908 East Hamilton, Tampa. .

MARSHALL BEASLEY, FB1I#633059.

This individual has been previously identified in
GIIF reports from Tampa, and he: is now identified RALPH W.
MILLS and WALTER HEINRICH as booking with AUGUSTINE PRIMO
LAZZARA. It is believed by these sources that this bookmaking
operation extends to Augusta, Georgia, where a contact of theirs
ia CIRO BEDAMI, Tampa PD#29680.

ANGELO _BEDAMI, FBI#1849088; JOE BEDAMI, FBI#82699A. .

These two individuals are identified as with the 4
Italian Group in Tampa, Florida. ANGELO BEDAMI being the
father of JOE BEDAMI, according to Inspector BEYNON, of the
Tampa Police Department, continues to be a prime suspect in a
most armed robberies about Tampa, Florida, but has always
had an alibi arranged ahead of time. ANGELO BEDAMI can be
seen most any night after 3 A.M., at the Old Fort Restaurant
on Platt and Lafayette Streets.

According to MM 439-C, ANGELO BEDAMI is operating
in the bolita business and he is a close associate and con-
fidant of SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., and PRIMO LAZZARA.

ett

poe MTEL ARO OTCCTATORE, with aliases JOB‘ HORTENA, C.

* This individual {s identified by Deputy Sheriff
ELLIS CLIFTON as being a narcotic who has frequent visitors
at his home, and CLIFTON has maintained surveillances on his -
residence and states every week numerous cars are seen from

< 179 =
CONFRERTIA

DocId:32309723 Page 15


COWFADENTIAL

MM 62-1273

During this writing SORIANO has been picked up
for armed robberies and questioned but released.

JOHN/CARUSO. . Fiat, 7

————_———— Taye a L483
This individual, a white male, 49 years of age,/

of 1917 ~ 5th Avenue,‘ is a reputed Tampa bolita racketeer,

who hasbeen arrested during this period but continues to

operate in the sale of bolita. He was also facing Federal

tax charges and he operates the Caruso's Florida Cafe at

West Tampa, 2102 North Howard Avenue. SALVATORE LOREM ZO

SALVATORE S. (SAM) LORENZO, FBI #5236882, 9 “SiLewT San”

This individual is identified as the close
associate of SANTO and HENRY TRAFFICANTE. He is the indi-
vidual who allegedly sold the car that was involved in a
bribery of SANTO TRAFFICANTE and HENRY TRAFFICANTE with ro
Sergeant HARRY F. DIETRICH, of the St. Petersburg, Florida
Police Department, which car was given DIETRICH for his
protection of the Trafficante bolita operation in St. Peters-
burg. LORENZO spent six months in jail for charges of contempt
of court in that he would not answer questions concerning the
TRAFFICANTES. He was recently indicted with the TRAFFICANTES
by the Federal Grand Jury in a conspiracy case to violate the
Wagering Tax Stamp Act. He has been reported in the past by
PCI PAUL ANTINORI as a strongarm hoodlum who may possibly be
the killer for the TRAFFICANTE Group.

4

JAMES BE. JIMMY" LONGO. Pid -
This individual has been identified in the past
as a bodyguard for SANTO TRAFFICANTE. According to MM 416 PC,
who advised on December 22, 1954, LONGO was travelling between
Miami and Tampa, Florida, and was allegedly involved in a :
number of stickups in the Miami, and Miami Beach area which
were believed of the type, according to informant, of robbing
wealthy-homes and jewelry. . .

JOHN SCARFACE RIVERA, with aliases, SCARFACE JOHNNY, JOHN

y mas eee eEEEJ[—_e_eoovr

- 182 - .
CONKIDENTIA!

MP an

' DocId: 32309723 Page 16


ENTIAL

MM 62-1273

Cha eles EP Rr
MM 416 PC advised on December 22, 1954, that
this individual was operating bolita in Pinellas County,
Florida, with CHARLES CIéRICE of John's Pass, St. Peters-
burg Beach, Fiorida. Cielic.
PCI EDWIN W. BENSE, on January 15, 1955, advised
SA JAMES P. O'NEIL that captioned individual was running a
lot of moonshine in Tampa and Pinellas County. SCARFACE
JOHNNY: has been identified for many years as the bodyguard
and close confidant of CHARLIE WALL, (described: previously).
He is last known to be operating the Boston Bar, 22nd Street
and Columbus Drive, Tampa, where it is recalled JOE
L ANTINORI was shot in gunland fashion in November, 1953.
Captioned individual has a 1953 Dodge four-door, bearing
1955 Florida Tag 3-53506, registered under the name of JOHN
RIVERS, 1206 - 15th Avenue.

It is also noted at this time that CHARLIE WALL'S
murderer was a close friend of his, according to local :
police authorities who are investigating the murder and they *
note that it occurred in WALL'S bedroom where he had a loaded
\ 45 immediately next to him, therefore, whoever killed him was
' very close to him.’
\

MANUEL AFERNANDEZ, FBI #1569345... fe:
= i= oe a .

According to MM 416 PC, this individual was con-
victed in Federal District Court, Tampa, and he was one of
the TRAFFICANTE bolita peddlers and all during the time he
was in prison his wife was paid $40.00 per week. MM 416 PC
further advised that this individual is back working with
the TRAFFICANTES. His record in the United States Marshal's
Office, Tampa, shows he was born.in Spain, but was allegedly
naturalized when he went to the Federal Correctional .
Iristitition:at Tallahassee, Florida, June 17, 1954, on a
a f failure to register and purchase Wagering Tax

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, Ri, FBI_#482531B.

; This individual continues to reside at 2505 Bristol,
Tampa, He is closely identified with his brother, HENRY .
TRAFFICANTE, FBI #625515B, who resides at 3110 North Boulevard,

- 183 -CONFROENTIAL

| Docla: 32309723 Page 17


CONFIDENTIAL

MM 62-1273
zp.
Deiat 2K

the name of SAMMYAPOLLACK, who is a small time former bar-
tender from Miami Beach, who presently resides at 809 West
Fribley Street, Tampa, and who is shacked up with a Fla
prostitute named WANDAXWILSON. His front man up until —
May 23, 1955, was SALVATORE AMARENA, with alias SAMMY PAXTON,
who is a known pimp and a front man at the Club Carnival and
resides at 4707 Bayview Avenue, Tampa.

. SAMMY PAXTON has been replaced by ALLEN“ HIRSCH,
who is a new arrival in Tampa, Florida, from Miami, and who f:+
has a 1954 yellow Ford convertible, bearing 1955 Florida 7
Tag 1-84358, registered in the name of A. S.¥HIRSCH, 2115
Washington Avenue, Miami Beach, Florida. HIRSCH was surveilled
on the morning of May 18, 1955, to the residence of 3915.
Fig Street, where he was shacked up with a strip tease dancer
from the Club Carnival.

Jiw

This captioned individual is closely identified -
with FREDDIE FINK, with aliases, FBI #280445, who has also
served time in Sing Sing as allegedly SHADIETSKY has. He
is also associated with an individual named DANNY LEWIS
who has been identified by MM 439-C, and BETTY MOELLER, aka.,
Mrs. CLIFFORD MOELLER, a PCI, as a hoodlum, gangster and .
possibly wanted individual from the State of New York. This
LEWIS is unregistered. He is allegedly on parole and. efforts
to identify him at the present writing have been negative. ~

Captioned. individual is closely associated with
such individuals as MOE ROCKFELD, FBI #291641; HARRY. SOSNICK,
with aliases, FBI #850394; MURRAY SEGAL, with aliases, a :
known pimp trom Key West and Miami and JOEYHORMANSKt, with ~
aliases, BI #1573762, of New York bity, who was recently =:
wanted for a& bank robbery on Long Island. }

ele

C.' POLITICAL TIEUPS WITH ORGANIZED CRIME

According to Chief of Police B. J. ROBERTS} the Lo
present’ Mayor of Tampa, CURTIS HIXSON, has no political tie-
ups with organized cri an ie states that the only
individual whois in the race for mayor, a present Hills-
. borough County Commissioner, NICK NUCCIO, All Italian bolita
‘and gamblers are behind NUCCIO and NUCCIO already has them
lined up for the coming fall election.

- es - CONTHOENTIAL

DocId:32309723 Page 18



Gti AVA TAL

MM 62-1273

Stated that -he found no juvenile organized ganga operating
in Tampa, Florida, and reported-in his summary to Senator
HENDRICKSON he pointed out that Tampa had a small juvenile
problem compared to any of the cities such as Brooklyn,
lew.York City, Los Angeles, or Detroit.

H. NOTORIOUS “TYPES“-AND PLACES OF -AMUSEMENT

According to MM §39-C, as well as Captain HBINRICH,
there are no known houses of prostitution operating in the
City'of Tampa. These same sources also report that
humerous hoodlums congregate around the’Old Fort Restaurant
located on the corner of Platt and Franklin Street, Tampa,
Florida. They congregate after 3:00 A.M., after the other
bars are closed.

Captain HEINRICH has advised that he has seen
the following hoodlums hanging out at the Old Fort on
numerous occasions; | a

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, HENRY TRAFFICANTE, AUGUSTINE
PRIMO LAZZARA, JOE LAZZARA, FRANK-DIGCIDUR,. JOE
PELUSA DIAZ, JOE PERRONE, and FANO and 8AM
TRAFFICANTE

HEINRICH advised the Poinsettia Ice Cream Parlor,
1315 Bast Broadway, run by RALPH. MASCULLURE, has become a
hangout for Puerto Ricans.

Club Carnival, 1200 Franklin Street. ~

‘This isa night-club operated under the guise
and license 6f SAMMY POLLACK, however, it is really operated
by ISADORE SHADLETSKY, with aliases, 314599129. This placé
has numerous hoodlums hanging out in the early morning hours
and MM 439-C, as of May 23, 1955, reported she has seen
SALVATORE J. LORENZO, JOE PELUSA DIAZ, HENRY TRAFFICANTE,
and numerous other small Tampa hoodlums hanging out at this
establishment. -

2193 ©

Con: Tima
Mae ON baa

DocId:32309723 Page 19

-

os


MM 62-1273

DORIS, DOLORES . . . .
DORN, Fe Ts ee eee
DOWEN, FRANK...
DOWNEY, 0. K. "Jack,
DOYIE, JIMMY "Jdmmy Plum
-DRAGO, JOB W... .
DRAKOULACOS, CHARIES
DRANE, MEL 2 ee eo
DUBOIS, MURRAY ..

. DUGAN, AULDON B. ss
DUNCAN, DR. JOHN H. .
DUNCAN, IKE...
DUPUY, JOSEPH...
DURDEN, WILIARD . . .

COFYDENTIAL

PEDDIDIDDIDLDD DDL ie
tee eee eee 0138; 457, 177, 178 -
errr aan OnE.

« «6 ee» «© « See Edward A. Blair

EDDIE 2 2 5s ee ee we ee eo oe See A. Js Longo or Mimmice Longwell
EDER, MAK 2 2 ee ee twee eee ee ee ee oe © 6(See Maxie Raymond
EDWARDS, BONNIE 2 - eee eee ee eee ere reer seen
BDWARDS, CHARIES IRON 2 6 we ee eee eee re enc nne
EDWARDS, MRS. CHESTER Ges ee eee ee ce ence een ee
EDWARDS, HEARD «6 wp ee ee eee eee cee eee cee ene
BLIER, BILL - eee eee eee cere ere ere ence .
ELLIOTT, Je Je we we ee ee ee ewe weer ere cne «+ 146
BLLIOTT, JOHN 2 ee eee eee eee eee ee ee 7 Ys
ELLIOTI, JOHN C. eee +. 160-
ELLIOTT, NICKY k Heliopolous' ee oe 2 89
b BLLIS, GEORGE «eee eo eee e see ewes oe 17
ELLIS, MATTIE 22s eee ene eee eee eee e ee 150
ELLSWORTH, FRANK » 0 2 es ee ee eee cee ee 20 6 9
\ EBLISWORTH, JOYCE . ee ee ee ee eee wee ee 20
Ai ELMORE, NICK 2 2 oe ee ee eee ee ere eee ce ee LY
EMERY, JIMMY 2 2s eee eee + - See Vincezo Ammeratti
ENGIES, FOSTER . « « © © ee 0 ee ee cree eee Bly 22 >
ERICKSON, FRANK ce ee ee ees eee eee eee 21S
ERNIE (INU) 2. ee ee eee eee ee ee
ERNIE. «2 se eee eee een +e See Charles E. Newnan |
ERRA, PATTY "Patsy Airatt . eee eee 93, 118°:
EVANS, E. A. « . ec eee eee 106°
EVANS, ROBERT oe er? ,

L

DocId:32309723 Page 20


CONFOENTIAL

MM 62-1273

OXFORD, LON D., Ree see eee ee evene
OXFORD, HE. 2 eee sere cece ee ane

PADGETT, W. We
PALMER, C. Me .
PALMER, ROBERT
PAPY, BERNIE .
PARRY, SIDNEY S.
PARSONS, EDGAR "Big Tiffr
PASSARELLA, "Redat?

PAT seve wae

PATE, DEWEY K.

PAUL, IESTER .

PAULEY, (FU) .

eee
eee
eee
Ce

PERRY, PAUL . « « « «
PETE «eo wee we
PETERSON, ALBERT OTTO
PETERSON, J. HARDIN, JR.
PETTY, TOM oe eee oe

Peeve es

*, oe
moe eee
CS

.
.
.
.
.

wee ere rene

Ce

ry

132
See Joe Avilio Diaz

es S
+ + See Joseph Longo
cet eee 53, 56
» 151, 168, 184, 193
. eee oe 12
« See Edwin W. Bense
eee cece eo 1, 3

2
6

-

DocId:32309723 Page 21


c 7
CONFIPENTIAL
MM 62-1273

RICHARDSON, JESSE .

RICHBURG, JOHN We see eee ere secre recace
RICHIE 2 0 ow ee were errr reer ere eern one
RIO, DANNY». se ee eee eee ee eee teens
RIVERA, JOHN "Scarface't, "Scarface Johnny", "John Rivers"
ROACH, MRS. BYRD 2 we ee ee rec cere erc ence
ROBERSON, KATHIEEN «1s se ee ee er cer cere cee
ROBERTS, BRYANT Jo 2 eee ww ee eee ew wo wo LOIN, 185489
ROBERTS, CHARIES JOSEPH "Little Charlie’ . 2... 2 eee
ROBERTS, De Ke oe es eww ee ee ecee
ROBERTSON, MAX 0 2 2 ee oo a ey
ROBINSON, E. Ce ese eee sees
“ROBINSON, ROBBIE. . 2... « eo eee eae
ROCCO, MIKE "Mickey the Guy" wee ee ewe
ROCKFELD, BOOTS "Gloria Myles' eo eee ee
ROCKFELD, MOE . eee 172, 173, 176
RODENBAUGH, CARL ceee ey
RODENBAUGH, DOUGLAS .... ey
\ RODRIGUEZ, ROLANDO . . os « ee ewer n ae
ROGERS, AUBREY... 2... se re
ROGERS, JAMES RANUS "Ray" . seo ee ew we we 203
ROGERS, TONY es we ee oe + «© © « eSee Anthony Strasse
ROGERS, VERNON . 0 se ee es eee
ROLLINS, EDWARD JOSEPH « » « ee ee
ROSE, ALVIN «2 ee eee e eae
ROSEN, GEORGE .. cee ae ee
ROSEN, NIG.» « eee .
ROSENBAUM, EDWARD ky Edi . ees ae
ROTH, HARRY .. a ry eevee
ROTHENEERG, MORTON ee ey eee ee
ROTHMAN, NORMAN a ee ee cower
ROUBIK, CLARENCE « a ey a ae
ROWS, CHARLES F, . . a es eee ee -
RUBIN, ELLIS . « . « eee wee ee ey
RUBIN, SAMIEL "Stretch" 2... ce eee eee ee ecco e 18
RUSSIAN, THE . 6 eo we so oe wees e « See George Vaintraub
BUSSO, WILLIAM». ee ee eee ec eee » » See William Daddono
wees 16
od.

con DENTAL

' Docla: 32309723 Page 22


Cc~

MM 62-1273

WHITEHEAD, JOHN . « o «

ZEVELY, "XYZ" . 2 2 0 0
ZIGILINI, GEORGE JOSEPH .

re ee 2)

eee Se
BB, 55, 59

sees

ee ery

ee ee

+ DB
38

7, 12, 113:
200, 205, 206

CONFIDENTIAL

-

Docld:32309723 Page 23
