# docid-32261287

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/7/201

AGENCY:

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10105-10356

RECORD SERIES : NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 014424

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

BOGGAN, FURMAN

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 02/23/1978

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

...IDENTIFICATION

OSWALD, LEE; POST RUSSIAN PERIOD; DESCRIPTION AND

BOGGAN, FURMAN

DOCUMENT TYPE : SUMMARY

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Open in Full

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/08/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Box 258.

v9.1

DocId: 32261287

Page 1

---

## Page 2

KENNEDY

014424

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

Identifying Information:

Name_ Furman Boggan

Adaress_

Thibodaux , La

City/State

Date of Birth_ 17 May 1918

Social Security_425-1405120

Date

2/23/78

Place Nichols State College

Telephone

MOr S

Spouse®

Children

Physical Description:

Height

Weight

Ethnic Group_

Color Eyes

Hair

Special Characteristics

Personal History:

a..

b.

Present Employment:

.Address

Telephone

Criminal Record

1. Arrests

2. Convictions

Additional Personal. Information:

a.

Relative(s): Name

Address

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

Investigator

DocId: 32261287 . Page 2

Date

Form #4-B

---

## Page 3

NAME.

Furman Boggan

Address Thibodaux La.

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Date

2/23/78

Time 3 p.m.

Place

Nichols State College

Thibodaux, La.

Interview:

On 2/23/78, Select Committee on Assassinations In-

vestigators Harold D. Leap and Robert Buras interviewed

former FBI F rman Boggan at the Nichols State College Campus

Police Office relative to the investigative response of the

New Orleans FBI office to the assassination of JFK and the

Security investigation of LHo prior to the assassination.

Mr. Boggan advised that he was employed by the FBI

and stationed at the New Orleans field office from 1956 to

1969. Most of his duties at this time involved Police

Training, however, he did assume additional duties as assigned

by the SAC of the office.

Boggan said that LHO was the subject of a security

investigation prior to the assassination.

The case officer

for the investigation was Milton Kaach.. Boggan said he did

not assist in the investigation.

S/A assigned to the Se-

curity unit at that time consisted of Milton Kaach and

Warren DeBrueys and several other agents whose names he

could not remember. The unit reported directly to the SAC,

Harvey G. Maynor.

Interviewer.

(signature)

Harold D. Leap/ Robert Buras

(Typed)

Date Transcribed

3/2/78

DocId: 32261287 Page 3

---

## Page 4

FURMAN BOGGAN INTERVIEW

Page 2

Boggan stated that the allegations that the Bureau

received advanced notice that JFK would be killed in Dallas

on November 22, 1963 and that LHO was an FBI informer were

entirely false.

Leap asked Boggan if any of the N.O. S/As had been

censored for their handling of the LHO investigation.

Boggan said S/A Kaach was not censored because of the LHO

investigation. Boggan said if Kaach had been censored he

certainly would have been aware of it.

- No follow up recommended.-

DocId: 32261287

Page. 4

---

