# docid-32292871-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10210-10147

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-319

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

OBRIEN, ARNOLD W.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/28/1961

9

LST, ASSOC, P/P, BGK, QUIRE, WILLIAM MIKE, GOLDSTEIN,

THEODORE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: Redict

10/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

isid

v9.1

19

---

## Page 2

Report Form:"

FD-263 (5-12-55.)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

SAN JEAN

TITLE OF CASE

Office of Origin

• TAMPA

SANTO

TRAFFICANTE, JI',

James

Bruno

aka.

Date

9/28/61

Investigative Period

8/31/61-9/13/61

Report made by

ARNOLD OW. O'BRIEN

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Typed By:

zhc

Synopsis:

REFERENCE:

-P-

INFORMANTS:

SJ I-I IS ARTHUR GARD, PCI, San Juan Office.

SU I-2 IS HARVEY GORDON, PCI, San Juan Office.

LEADS:

SAN JUAN DIVISION

AT CHARLOTTE AMALIE, ST. THOMAS, VIRGIN ISLANDS,

Will continue attempts

to ascertain whether WILLIAM

I BUCKNER; EUGENE F. KEAN or subject have purchased property at

Flag Hill Section, Saint Toomas, Virgin Islands•

Special Agent

Approved

in Charne

Copies made:

-Bureau

92-2781)

92-

2-Miami

(92-88)

Do not write in spaces below

2781-319

2-New York (92-846)

2-Tampa (92-1)

2-San Juan (92-52)

OCT 2

• 1961

DISSEMINATION RESTRICIED TO JUSTICE DEPARTMENT

1 cc:

AAG Criminal Division

rorm 0-6_

Sty

NY

STATES,

09

Proporis of Fal

-A*-

1. 18910

COVER PAGE

nis :

is looned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loar

OCT O

306

# U. 8: GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1956, 0 - 385319

t.

REC- 50

---

## Page 3

SJ 92-52

concessions in the Virgin Islands should gambling ever become

legalized. He advised that SYDNEY KESSIER was an associate

Of WILLIAM P. BUCKNER and believes that the association

was due to the fact that KESSIER has always wanted gambling

at the Virgin Isles Hotel.

Mr. BAILEY advised that he knows of no information

which would indicate that WILLIAM P. BUCKNER was interested

in purchasing property in the Flag Hill Section of St. Thomas.

SJ I-I advised on May 27, 1961 that WILLIAM P. BUCKNER

is acquainted with the following individuals at St. Thomas,

Virgin Islands:

WILLIAM ORNDORFF, THEODORE GOLDSTEIN, MIKE QUIRE:

Informant advised that WILLIAM ORNDORFF was a former

resident of st.

Thomas, Virgin Islands and returned to St.

Thomas approximately a year and & half ago. He is presently

operating a real estate office at St. Thomas, Virgin Islands.

Within the past six months, he has acquired two partners

THEODORE GOLDSTEIN and MIKE QUIRE:

On June 28, 1961, informant advised he observed WILLIAM

P. BUCKNER In the office of WILLIAM ORNDORFF. He ascertained

that BUCKNER had recently come from St. Martin, French west

Indies, where he believes BUCKNER may have been interested in

possible gambling operations.

on June 8, 1901, in a casual conversation with WILLIAM

ORNDORFE, ORNDORFF advised SA ARNOLD W. O'BRIEN at St. Thomas,

virgin Islands, that he has known WILLIAM P, BUCKNER for many

years. He advised that he did not believe BUCKNER had any gambling

Interests in either the Virgin Islands. or San Juan, Puerto Rico:

He stated that BUCKNER frequents the Virgin Islands no more

than three of four times a year and on each occasion is in

contact with him.

Nu.I-2 advised on september 5, 1901, that THEODORE GOLDSTEIN

formerly operated

three bars, which

were located next door. to

each other in the vicinity of 23rd Street and Park Avenue,

Miami, Florida. Informant

advised these bars were the hangout

-6-

---

