# docid-32303138

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10283-10150

HQ

92-2918-102

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/18/1961

2

Restricted

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32303138

Page

1

14

---

## Page 2

"FB-36 i Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

Date:

PLAIN

' TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

8/18/61

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR,, FBI (92-2918)

FROM:

RE:

SAC, MIAMI (92-155)

GABRIEL MANNARINO, aka "1*

AR

SAMUEL

MANNARINO, aka

AR

(00:

Pittsburgh)

983010

ReButel to Pittsburgh 8/17/61, with reference to

Pittsburgh estimating the value

and recommendation of MEROLA

as to whether or not he should be included in the top echelon

criminal informant program.

was formerly a CI of the Miami Office. It

UNHECORDED COPY FILED IN

furnished the Bureau and no change has come about whereby Miami

recommends consideration be given to him as a CI.

It is recom

mended that"any information he may desire to furnish be ob-

tained from him, however, the same not sought inasmuch as it

is believed MEROLA would use this to his own advantage and to

the embarrassment of the Bureau at a subsequent time.

EX 101

Bureau (AM)

Pittsburgh (1 - 92-236) (1 • 92-228)

3 - Miami (1 - 87-8049) (1 - 137-2065)

HWS: amc

(8)

92-2918-182

24

RUG 81

• 1961

8-21-61

c C Wick

196%

AUG 280

Approved:

hear

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

- M

Per

DocId: 32303138 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"" 7

FPa-36 TRev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following. in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

On the night of 8/17/61, MM 722-C, who is a close

associate of MEROLA and who is a close associate of one MEL

ADLER, who is an associate of MEROLA, advised he had been

informed by MEROLA and by ADLER that. MRROLA has been stating

that he will not have to serve any time in the case entitled

: "STUART SUTOR, Et Al; ITSP;/TGT; FFA; NM; CONSPIRACY."

MEROLA has stated that the matter has been taken care of in.

Philadelphia and it has cost him a "tremendous bundle" to

have his pending five year sentence suspended and have him

placed on probation. He has indicated this will transpire.

next Thursday or Friday, on the 24th or 25th of August,

when he was

supposed to start serving his sentence. He

allegedly is to appear before the Federal Judge in Pittsburgh

at that time to be placed on probation.

MEROLA is presently a

top jewel thief of the Miami

Office, and is known to be, and has admitted-to the Pittsburgh

Agents, that he pulled the major theft this last winter at

the Hofbrau Haus in Hallandale, Fla.

Miami requests the Bureau give authority to

Pittsburgh to inform the Federal Judge at Pittsburgh concern-

ing statements made by MEROLA.

These are namely, that he has

spent a "tremendous bundle" to have his case fixed in Pitts-

burgh to where he will be placed on probation rather than

serve his pending five year sentence:

2630!:

2

Approved:

Sent

-M .

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32303138 Page 3

---

