AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1
Docld:32323900 Page 1

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/1/2015

Agency Information
FBI
124-9002 1-10098
HQ
CR 92-4311-7

Document Information
FBI

HQ

05/27/1960
9

JOSEPH CAMPISI

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

01/02/1998

INDEFINITE



( | - _
C ;

DL 92-198
1 _ADMINISTRATIVE DATA:

. The long period date in this report is noted. The Bureau
was advised of details relative to PELLEGRINO's move from New York
to Dallas in referenced letter. Dallas requested office of

origin be changed from New York to Dallas and Dallas was designated
new office of origin by return copy of letter received by Dallas
3/25/60. There has been very little activity on PELLEGRINO's part
Since he was arrested shortly after his arrival in Dallas by the
Dallas PD Vice Squad, charged with vagrancy, and interviewed
relative to his reason for moving to Dallas. This case is .
receiving continuous investigative attention at Dallas and regular
reports will be submitted relative to PELLEGRINO's activities.

INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following listed informants and sources are being
utilized in the investigation concerning PELLEGRINO:

DL-105-c;

DL-80-C; .

DL-95-C;

JEROME J, CRANE, Crane-Longly. Funeral Home, Dallas, who ‘
is well acquainted with Italian police characters
and their families in the Dallas area. He requested
his identity be kept confidentiai.

Continued efforts will be made to effect complete
coverage of PELLEGRINO's activities and associates through
informants and other sources. Efforts will be made to develop

. new informants in this regard.

Identity of Informants

T-1 is DL-105-c.

T-2 is DL-80-C. +

T-3 is DL=95-C.

T-4 is JEROME J, CRANE, Confidential Source.

NY T-1 is Mrs. JOHN HERMAN, subject's mother-in-law, 91
Cleveland Street, Valhalla, NY, who requested her identity be kept
confidential. . !

Careful consideration was given to each source concealed
by T-symbois in this report and T-symbols were utilized only where
identities must be concealed. .

- Be -
Cover Page

- pe AWS ANOS j

Docld:32323900 Page 2

