# docid-32341013

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10221-10406

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-2ND NR 392

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 05/07/1968

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, ANTI-CASTRO ORGANIZATIONS, MEMBERSHIP,

LEAFLET, INTV, RMN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32341013

Page 1

---

## Page 2

10-36 (Rev. 5-99-241

CONFIDENTIAL

FBI

Date:

5/7/58

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SPITA CAL OENT ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSINLED

OADR 0/4/85

EXCEE: 4.0336

• SHOWN

OTHERWISE

•DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

SAC, MIAMI (105-1742) (P)

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

IS - CUBA

*CI-

war:

Re Miami airtel to the Bureau dated 4/30/68.

The Miami office continues its attempts to further

infiltrate PODER CUBANO (PC) and the JULIO PEREZ PEREZ-

EVARISTO GARCIA SARMIENTO faction of the CUBAN NATIONALIST

MOVEMENT (CNM) .

JOSE DIAZ GONEZ, PCI, is continuing contact with

PC leaders in

an attempt

to further ascertain PC membership

and activities.

ALTONSO REY, a source in Cuban matters, is in

contact with PC leaders and is continuing his attempts to

infiltrate the

& hangout for

on B15 leaders, and now advises that PC members

continues to frequent the Toyo Restaurant,

käve not come

to the restaurant during the past week and

their present whereabouts are unknown.

DI.

CARMELINA BONAFONTE advised that information

received from. her source, IVIDIO B. PEREIRA, reflects

Enatcneer.4141

105-

fic is in 105,289,5 Ca

il.

-12.

(RM1)

90-4474 (mind)

1.

pointin?

{- 105-2481) (Cubnai)

¿05-15556) (Cuban Power)

La

to tet Titan

/22 MAY 8

1859

-447%

270 MAY 16 1968-

O MAY TE 19687M4

_ M

Perrie

Approved:

NOV 49 1919 C

pecial Agent in Charge CONFINENTSAT

DocId: 32341013 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAl

Ma 205-1742

BICTOR CORNILLOT LIANO, PC leader, said he is leaving the

20 and

the Miami area becausa of

pressure put on him oy two

members of the Miami Police Deparument.

PEREIRA reporis

trai PC acilvisi, OMAR SCIO PUJOL, said he is

leaving the

PC because he does not want any more problems.

PEREIRA

reports that the PC is breaking up, no longer

meets and

discusses plans, no longer wants dynamite for iuture operations,

vand claims

the

organization has no immediate plans.

exile businessmen in Miami. Copies of a second and different

Labiloi, approved by the

Bureau, have also been mailed.

third approved leaflet will be

mailed this week.

A fourth

leullet will be subnitted to the Bureau for approval, and if

approved, this leaflet will also be mailed to Cuban exile

businessmen in Miami.

These leaflets have carried such titles as:

"CUBAN POWER -- A CASTRO FRONT?"

"CUBAN POWER -- CRIMINAL

ORCANIZATION?", and "CUBAN POWER

-- OR NARCOTICS POWER?"

RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE continues to be inter-

viewed daily by the Miami office and has furnished a large

quantity of tremendously valuable information concerning the

pC and other anti-Castro organizations.

Concerning the PEREZ-GARCIA SARMIENTO faction of the

there has been

no activity during the past week.

PEREL

has

remained in the West Palm Beach area, and the Customs

informant in Miami has had no opportunity to see him or to

identify BADIN.

Miami is considering interviewing the Customs

source, NANCY RODRIGUEZ, to see ii she is amenable to contact

oy Bureau Arents and ascertain her potential for being a

Bureau source.

correction with another matter.

FELIDE RIVERO DiAZ aS interviewed on 4/24/5 being

He described PEREZ aS

i psychopath

and unstable and stated PEREZ exerts a grezt

Encunt of influence over GARCIA SARMIENTO. RIVERO feels

TASK FORCE

5: 7-23.92 dat

L. RELEASE iN PART

L TOTAL DENIAL

= 2

CONFIDENTIAI

DocId: 32341013 Page 3

---

