FD-86 (Rev. 19-29-85)

ts G
MR oo Se
a
0
4A Y Zi FBI
2 2/65
b Date: 2/16/65
Transmit the following in Type in plain text oF code]
AIRTEL AIR MAIL - REGISTERED

(Priority)

Director, FBI
FR SA&, Los Angeles (92-1112)
hon COSA NOSTRA
() ANTI-RACKETEERING - CONSPIRACY

Re Bureau teletype to Los Angeles, et al,
dated 1/18/65.

On the night of 2/17/65, LA 4448-c-TE furnished
the following information:

Informant had just been to the residence of
NICK LICATA, “Under-Boss" , Los Angeles "Familia" While
there, LICAtA mentioned that FRANK DESIMONE, "Boss",
Los Angeles ' "Pamh lia" a, had not been ° in contact with "him
since DESIMONE's trip "back east" LICATA appeared to
be somewhat. irritated about this. He then told informant
that he had just been contacted by "The Boss" from the
San Jose, California area and that this individual said ry
that he hee to e DESIMONE, personally, about some V
important matter. He then recuested LICATA to make contact
DESIMCONE and arrange such a meeti LICATA did not,
his time, ‘dentify this "Boss" bymame. He has
viously. however, identified Shesati CERRITO as "Boss"
the San Jose group, La Cosa Nostre. and JAMES LANZA as
3s" of the San Francisco group a Gosa Nostra. It is,
therefore, presumed that he had reference to one of these
two individuals.

I2 eos GOOF

San Diego e

Bureau aoe AD ~ bL De SY ~ Gf &

@ - San Francisco cae a
1 - New York (Info). a1 FEB 20 1965
@- ae Angeles (92-1112) - | cue
ae a : E r meena
NEY/ser eee
(0) —*.
i ay setae W é
| gApBproved: Sent M “Her

BO yar g®

Docld:32576427 Page 1



LA 92-1112 c

\ LICATA then told informant that he (LICATA)

was going to meet with TOM PALERMO, "Consiglieri", Los

| Angeles "Familia", at 9:00 PM, 2/17/65 to ascertain if

he (PALERMO) had been in recent contact with DESIMONE.
LICATA indicated to informant that, on occasion, PALERMO

is in contact with DESIMONE when he is not in direct contact
with LICATA. LICATA then told informant that after seeing
PALERMO, he would make what contacts are necessary to get

in touch with DESIMONE and attempt to arrange the meeting
referred to above.

Above information telephonically furnished to
’San Diego and San Francisco Offices on 2/18/65 with
request to effect appropriate coverage in conformance with
Bureau instructions as set out in referenced airtel.
Los Angeles also affording similar coverage.

FULL SECURITY OF ABOVE INFORMATION SHOULD BE
AFFORDED BY ALL OFFICES. =

Docld:32576427 Page 2

