# docid-32306566

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10290-10206

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-109

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/14/1961

2

SGI, EX-CONVICT, TRA, GAMBLING, B/F INT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/06/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

Released under

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 56792 Date:

4-12-2018

v9.1

HH 56792

1

DocId: 32306566

Page 1

---

## Page 2

F.D-36

• 12-13-56)

FBI

Date: 2/14/61

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

FROM: SAC,

CHICAGO (92-349)

SAMUEL M.

AR

GIANCANA, AKa.

ReBuairtel to New York, co all offices, dated 2/1/61.

Review of file on GIANCANA reflects: (1) He is

not the subject of a substantive case and no process is out-

standing against him. U

(2) Investigation to date has not revealed any

vulnerable areas wherein a violation within the Bureau's

jurisdiction may be established.

A faint possibility exists

wherein GIANCANA, an ex-convict who travels extensively in

interstate commerce, may carry a firearm. All offices who

cover territory where GIANCANA travels have been alerted to

this possibility. y

(3) The area of Internal Revenue violation would

appear to be the most feasible one in that investigation has

Vegas gambling casinos, in motels in the Chicago area, and

in the juke box and coin machine field. The exact amount

of these investments have not been determined to date,

and

investigation is directed toward ascertaining GIANCANA'S

financial activity with particular reference to the identity

of the individual or individuals who channelize

Particular note is being made on the following: 4

do the tunasty

(1) BEN JAFFE,

President of the Guarantee Reserve

Life

Insurance Company,

Hammond,

Indiana.

This

company issued

a mortgage on GIANCANA'S River Road Motel in 1957 and has

figured in heavy investments in hotels in

Miami and Las Vegas.U

- Bureau

REC. g

2-3171-109

- ChicagALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEATHES UNCLASSIMED

'6

FEB 16 1961

RRH: Plb

(4)

DATE 5-24-34

0Y S85054

CE BORER

23049& Agent in Charge

Sent

Per

HH 56792 DocId:32306566 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-349

2) Lor-Har Distributors, 5954 W. Roosevelt Road.

holesale distributors of phonograph records for the Chicag

area, operated by CHARLES ENGLISH, hoodlum and close associate

Of GIANCANA.

JFK Law 11(a)

Infornation has

lieutenant, WILLIAM DADDANO, to be involved in the operation of

the West Suburban Scavenger

service.

These relatively new

companies are presently fighting the Chicago Scavenger

Association in obtaining new customers and it is noted that

most of the new accounts represent hoodlum controlled night-

clubs and restaurants. U

GIANCANA 1s allegedly the number one men of the so-called

Chicago Syndicate.

If this is true, then he necessarily controls

all investments of Syndicate moneygained from both illicit and

legitimate activity.

One phase of the investigation on GIANCANA

has been directed to the identities of individuals in a position

to indicate positively GIANCANA's influence and identification

of Syndicate, sic GIANCANA's controlled enterprises.

GALE

REVIVED SY TENSEN TASK FORCE

- CLEANE IN TULL

X NELLASE IN PART

Li TOTAL DENIAL

- 2

(1(a)

WH 56792 DocId: 32306566 Page 3

---

