# docid-32290855-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10206-10131

HQ

62-9-12-290, 291

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, DL

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 01/29/1962

PAGES :

10

SUBJECTS :

CIP, FORT WORTH PDT, CORRUPTION, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

y9.1

18

---

## Page 2

DI. 94-55A-SUB.

and an associate

• Dallas pimp

gambler,

GLEN ERNEST

BURNETE, FBI NO.

379599A -

GOOL SBY'S

observed

at

this club on 12/26, 27,

20/610

observed on 1/20/62, was &

1962 Ranbler, Texas License I! 3080.

This car is registered to

WELDON N. WEATHERAL

Dallas su No.

12 723, described by local

officers as

known gambler

WEATHERALL is believed identical

with

"WELDON",

described

by DL-95-6

00 1/41/628

a frequent

vIsitOr and

1"ig gambler

at the club.

Also observed was

1959 Sinca, Texas License NI 572, registered tO CARL I.

MC GLOTHLIN, 4763 Silver Springs, Dallas.

MC GLOTHLIN is a

Dallas PD patrolman, assigned to the Service Division of the

Dallas Police Department

Further Inquiry concerning this

is being

made.

On 1/21/62, Di-95-C had advised

that part-owner

of the club, ELMER CLUCk, & Post Office carriel, had been

arrested

by local officers on 120/62, in connection with

a surder of another Post Office employee at Hawkins, Texas,

but had been released 1/21/62.

On 1/24/62, It BACK REVIL,

Intelligence Section,

Dallas PD, advised that on 1/2/62 GORDON

MINSCHEW, a

murdered

rural mail carrier at Hawkins,

Texas, had been

and his

body found in a rural ares..

had been

ascertained that MINSCHEN's wife was CLUCK's girlfriend.

REVILL also noted that about the time of the murder he

had been

given information by the FBI, Dallas that GEORGE FUQUA (DL 92-

61) and RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTREWS (DI 92-213) had a "score"

lined up.

This information had been obtained

I from DL-95-C,

as was information that FUQUA had been observed by DL-95-C

at the Redman Club, 3109 West Davis,

Dallas, on several occasions

during this period. CLUCK has been identified by DI-95-C

as a one third owner of record, of the property at the club.

Texas Rangers, investigating MINSCHEY's murder, have advised

IT. REVILL, It appears to be "paid killing" type murder.

FUQUA and MATTHIWS have been described in previous AR investi

gations

by informants and local officers, as "paid

l killers"

Information concerning CLUCK has not been dissemi®

nated by letterhead menorandum to date, as Bureau interests

have not been secured due to current investigation of LITTLE,

his associates and the club. Post Office officials Dallas,

have been made aware of his

arrest by the Teras Rangers.

- 2.

---

## Page 3

DE 94-55A-SUB

On 1/27/621

DIegs-C advised

he

had

seen the

following Dallas ganblers, that date.

at

this club:

BOBBY JOE CHAPMAN (DL 162-107)

ELMER CLUCK

BUDDY HAAS

DON FULTON

LLOYD EVANS

RE:

AL MEADOWS

IGA

(DI 162-109)

On 1/22/621

a check of PD records ascertained

that MEADOWS?

runner,

BILLY

RAY GRIMES, FBI NO. 587736A,

had been arrested by

Dallas

po vice squad, on vagrancy

charge, at which

time

he

was with his girlfriend, JANICE

LUCILLE CHRISTAKES, FBI NO. 2955E. CHRISTAKIS has been

described by local officers

as a gamber's shill and part-

time prostitute.

On 1/23/64,

SA BARRETT observed MEADOWS'

1962 Oldsnobile warked at 1926 west Davis.

This is the

location of his girlfriend's (HELEN CARTER, Dallas PD No.

31302) apartment;

and

from where he is operating as a bookie.

RE: EDDIE TOM GREEN, aka.

AR (DL 92-360)

JAMES HENRY DOLAN, aka.

AR (DL 92-292)

It had been previously determined that someone

named "DAVE"' had

left the phone number EX 8-7198, on a

note at DOLAN's residence,

his ner phone number.

This

number was issued on 1/17/62, to R.

W. ROBINSON, JR.,

Apartment 105, 1234 Templecliff, Dallas, who had previously

had phone number TA 4-1954,

was also noted TA 4-1954

had been found on 1/15/62,

written on a piece of paper in

GREEN's apartment after he had moved out 1/ 13/6%.

On 1/23/62,

MRS. ROBERT SHANKS, apartment 109, manager of the

house at 1234 Templecliff,

apartment

advised SA BARRETY that on 1/13/62,

DAVE SCHNEIDER, a white male, age 45-50, large build, and wife,

had moved into apartment 105, and no one

by name of "ROBINSON"

resided in the apartment house.

A photo of GREEN was shown

to MRS. SHANKS and

was definitely not identical with

---

## Page 4

DL 94-55A-SUB

SCHNEIDER •

She said SCHNEIDER iS

unemployed, but his wife,

a German born white lemale, age

about 30, works at

meat

packing company.

A

phone number found in

GREEN's

apartment,

was HA 1-7681,

listed to the Sanel's Meat Company,

Dallas.

She

also said SCHNEIDER drives & Volkswagon.

On 1/25/62

a green Volkswagon,

Texas license ML 2878, was observed

parked near apartment 105.

The above intormation was orally

furnished to Lt. REVIl and Deputy SheriII BOB MORGAN, Dallas

SO, on 1/25/62.

On 1/22/62, it was determined that Oklaboma license

36-3488, which 1s

on

GREEN'S 1955 red and white Buick, 1s

registered to R. G. BLACKWOOD, Claremore, Oklahoma, on a 1951

Plymouth.

RE: PHILIP STEPHEN BOSCO, aka.

AR • IGA (DE 92-331)

On 1/20/62, SA BARRETT Observed the car of Dallas

PD police detective

(auto theft squad) CHARLES SANSONE, parked

at Bosco's

seryice station.

The car, a 1955 pink and white

Buick, has

Texas

license NZ 325.

RE: BOBBY JOE CHAPMAN,

IGA (DL 162-107)

On 1/20 and 1/26/62, CHAPMAN's club, the "Blue

Mist

was raided by Dallas PD Vice Squad officers, for

violation of state

liquor laws.

was also arrested at the club on 1/26/6%.

On. 1/27/62, DL-95-C

(See above re DL 162- 129)

RE:

ELVIS RAY BLANKSHIP, aka.

AR (DL 92-244)

On 1/22/62

Lt. JACK REVILL

Dallas PD, furnished the

following

which had/aftermined through PD Intelligence Sectior

investigation:

Subject's brother, RICHARD LEE BLANKENSHIP, Dallas PD NO.

27823, is now driving & 1955

MX 3020, which is registerer pink Cadillad, Texas License

to ex-conviet

and safe burglar,

HENRY CLAY DAY, Dallas PD No. 13133, 11457 Cronwell Court,

Dallas, on a 1959 Cadillac.

• 4.

---

## Page 5

DI. 94-55A-SUB

On 1/23/62, Detective H.

M. HART, Intelligence

Section,

Dallas PD,

advised it had been determined that

SINS, FBI NO.

446809, WaS

operating

as a bookie,

frOM

his residence, 10111

crestover.

with his daughter MARY WIlLIS,

Dallas,

where he residee

knOw girlIrIend Of FRANK

TORTORIELLO,

(DI 92-196)

SINs has two phones; FI 1-0879

..and Fi. 1-5220.

Detective HART checked the tolls for these

phones and found there

bad

been!

over a period from 12/ 5/60

to 12/8/61, calls to Newestle, Hyoing New York City,

Atlanta, Georgia

Altus, cordel and Norman, Oklahoma,

New Mexico, Lavonia and

Detroit, Michigan,

Knoxville, Tennessee,

Was Vegas,

Nevada, plus numerous toll calls to various cities

in Texas.

The

to Newcastle, "yoming, had been to former

Dallas ganbler CECIL BERNARD SIMMONS.

The

Dallas PD had also

determined SIMS was an

associate of BARNEY GIBLES PAYNE,

Dallas

police character, JACK DARBY, (DI, 162-130), Dallas

gambler, CARRELI

BAMSEY, ANd JOHNNIE LEECH, FOrt Worth police

characters:

SIMS

had previously worked for BENNIE BINION,

at Los

Vegas, prior

to moving to Dallas.

new IGA investi

cation has

been

initiated by Dallas.

RE®

GIIF, ABILENE, TEXAS

(DL 94-49)

On 1/5/62, Detective O. R. SPROSS, Abilene

• PD,

advised SA URAL E, HORTON, IR., that WALTER B. "Red" MC

DONALD

99S

formerly a captain on

† he

Abilene police force and becane

chief of Police

for a short time, later being returned to the

rank of captain®

He advised that before becoming a captain,

MC DONALD had

been a

Detective on the Abilene police force

for a number of years.

According to Detective SPROSS, MC DONALD wAS

dismissed

from the Abilene police force

approximately

eighteen months ago for violation of departmental regulations

and

is no longer associated with the Abilene PD.

He stated

that when MC DONALD was & Detective, he

handled prostitution

activities in Abilene, and gave orders that he alone would

control such activities. Detective SPROSS

advised that no

direct evidence was obtained that Me DoNALD was letting prosti

tutes operate. for any consideration but that there

was strong

feeling that

this was possible.

Ihis

substantiates information furnished by DI-84:C

tO SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

on 12/13/61, and reported in Dallas weekly

airtel, 12/18/61.

- 6.

---

## Page 6

DL 94-55A-SUB

and

wINFREY both gave out basketball line and took bets at

apartment

101, 3434 Navajo on alternoon of 1/27/62.

WINFREY

contacted JIMMIE

(believed to

De JIMMIE MULIARKEY) telling

him that SHOEMAKER

rode

two winners in California the previous

day..

WINFREY. visited

Antonio,

Texas,

on

by girlfriend, DAISY

LEE

KabLy of san

weekend of 1/27-28/62•

First

and information

detail

soom.

names

of numerous contacts

0f

subjects. obtained

Iceived from DI-lIA-C* will be reviewed in

possible.

RE:

FORT WORTH POLICE DEPARTMENT

(DL 80-255)

On 1/26/62, LEONARD DORSETT, Patrolman, Fort Worth

PD, advised SA JOSEPH M. MYERS that he had

a conversation:

with fort

Worth PD Captain I. DERDEN, last

week. -DERDEN

related to DorSEry that the previous

Tarrant County Grand Jury

had

supposedly

invostigated corruption.in

the Fort Worth PD

JALI OLFICED

concerning

short changing prisoners of their money

but nothing

was ever done about it.

Om

1/28/6%4

former PCI JOANNE SHAW advised SA JOSEPH

M. MYERs that while she was employed about one and one half

to two years

ago, for Fort Worth coin machine operator BOB

BURNS, BURNS

several occasions asked SHAW to get him

from $500 to

$1,000 in cash and therealter, BURNS gave this

money to either

Fort Worth PD Vice Squad Sergeant BOF WOOTEN

0r bit an

GEORGE HAWKINS of the Fort Worth PD Detective Bureau.

SHAW stated she bay actually seen the money handed to WOOTEN

and HAWKINs once or twice

a month over a period of several

months •

SHAN stated that she believed that this money was

given

to them for tipping BURNS off to raids on locations

where BURNS had pinball gambling machines or horoscope

machites • SHAW

stated that she

was willing to testify to

this information, and that

her identity need not be kept

confidential. This information is being furnished to the

Internal Revenue Service, Fort Worth, Texas.

8

---

