# docid-32293104-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10210-10380

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-81285-39

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CV

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/30/1960

8

REW, LTR, REL, RETURN TO US, SOURCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

V9.1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI.

Date: 3/30/60

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-81285)

SAC, CLEVELAND (105-3792)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ROBERT EDWARD

WEBSTER

EREIN IS UNCLASSIMIE

IS - RUSSIA

(00: CV)

ATE 11-14-94 BISPS Mie ride |

(JFK)

Re Cleveland Airtel and Letterhead Memo dated 3/22/60.

Enclosed for the Bureau are five copies of a letter-

head memorandum containing Information concerning the subject

received from NICHOLAS GRAZIANO, Treasurer, Rand Development

corp.

One copy of the letterhead memorandum and this Airtel

is being designated for the information of the New York and

Washington Fleld Offices inasmuch as sources of those offices

may receive information in the near future that the subject's

father, H. JAMES RAND, or other individuals connected with

the Rand Development Corp. may contact officials or official

establishments of the USSR in the United States pursuant

to the subject's desire to return to the United States.

Mr. GRAZIANO's Identity in the letterhead memorandum

has been concealed at his request. The letterhead memorandum

1s being classifled confidential since the information fur-

nished by Mr. GRAZIANO would tend to reveal him as the source

of this information and possibly jeopardize his future effective-

ness.

Mr: GRAZIANO provided autostatic copies of the

subject's letters to his father, which are copies prepared

by the subject's father, and an

autostatic copy of the subject's

Bureau (Enc. 5)

REG- 68,

-New York (Info

105-37687 RM (I

0.95-81785-39

1-WFO (Info) (RM

(Enc. 1)

1-Cleveland

JFC: etc

(6)

OSURE

EX- 105

AENEY STATE; CIA, 057

5 MAR 31 1960

RICH

REQ. REC'D

DANG FORM

HOW

X-5-60

0/40,0/4E,07N:

Approved:

Sent

Per

Sped

Agent in Charge

---

## Page 3

Г..

CV 105-3792

father's letter to Me. RAND.

The original letters of the

subject to his family are in the possession of the subject's

father.

Mr. GRAZIANO has stated that he will keep the

Cleveland Office advised of all future developments in this

case as they occur and become known to him.

This case 1s being maintained in a closed status

in the Cleveland Office and no further investigation is being

conducted at this time.

- 2 =

---

