# docid-32294620

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10213-10396

RECORD_SERIES:

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 2-2173-3RD NR 171X3

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. MM

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/21/1976

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/14/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32294620

Page

---

## Page 2

PAGE THREE MM 185-76 MM 2-469 €

GOMEZ SAID THAT HE HIMSELE IS TRYING IU STOP THIS

VENEZUELAN PLAN IU DISCREDIT THE U.S.9

SIDE DE THE VENEZUELAN MILITARY. A (CA)

AS HE IS ON THE

SUURCE SAID HE CANNOT VUCH FUR THE RELIADILIIY OF INIS

INFORMATION, AND IS UNLY REPURTING WHAI LIUNEL GOMEZ TULD HIM.

ADMINISTRATIVE

RE MIAMI TELETYPE TO BURLAU, UCTODER 28, 1975.

THE CONFIDEGTIAL SOURCE MENTIONED ABUVE IS MIM

1537-5086(24)

BUREAU REQUESTED TO FURNISH ABOVE TELETYPE TO LEGATS,

CARACAS, BUENAS AIRES AND MEXICO CITY.

8 1

DocId: 32294620

Page

2

---

## Page 3

S5X

PAGE FIVE HM 24G9SE

raministrative

ADMINISTRATIVE.

Data

to Legats Only.

FIRST SOURCE IS PAUL DIAZ, OREANIZED CRIME BUREAU, DADE

COLINY PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARIMENT.

STCOND SOURCE IS MM 1337-S. AV)

PAUL DIAZ SAID THAT HIS DEPARIMENT HAS RECEIVED COPIES OF

SOME PAPERS SEIZED FROM THE RESIDENCE OF SUAREZ ESQUIVEL

DIRIG A SEARCH, BUT HE DOES NOT KNOW THE DETAILS AT THIS TIME.

DIAZ SAID HE BELIEVES THESE PAPERS WERE SEIZED SHORTLY AFTER

THE BOMBING OF THE RUSSIAN SHIP "IVAN SHEPETKOV" AT PORT

ELIZABETH, NEW JERSEY, ON SEPTEMPER 16, 1976.

THE BUOTAl IS PINESTED TO MAPSON AROUS INPORMATION TO

LECAT, GADABAE, MIAMI ALZO DESIRES IO BE ADVISED BY LEGAT,

CARACAS WHETHEP OR NOT MORALES NAVARRETE IS STILL FRIENDLY AND (4J

COOPERATING WITH LEGAT'S OFFICE,

AND IF NOT , THE NATURE OF

HIS PELATIONSHIP AT THIS TIME

ANY OBSERVATION LEGAT, CAPACAS

MAY HAVE PECARDING INFORMATION FURNISHEDEBY MOPALES NAVARPETE JEED (4]

AS SET OUT IN IHIS AND OTHER TELETYPES WOULD BE APPRECIATED.

DocId: 32294620

Page 3

---

