Ni

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

pr . SA
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum nea
To: Mr. Belmont “ ~ pate: May 11, .1962 sel

. — 5
FROM: C. Ac svaly-/

‘ oe : i: :
SUBJECT: ancezo uno : 4 2 — L
i

‘ANTI-RACKETEERING :

A Philadelphia informant who is being déveloped in connection

- with the Top Echelon Criminal Informant Program reported that on the

week end of May 5, 1962, he went to New York City with John Cavelli,
a Philadelphia hoodlum, and spent the week-end at the home of
Dan Cherito. f

Informant stated that a meeting took place at Cherito's
residence on May 6, 1962, which was attended by ten individuals,
including Phil Testa,who is Bruno's chief lieutenant, who controls

‘3 Bruno's Philadelphia numbers operation. The informant was not permitted |
‘to enter the room where the meeting took place. Informant pointed out ‘

that aside from himself, Testa, and Cavelli, the remaining persons
were all from New York City*with the exception of two from Boston.
Informant was introduced to a Henry Noise, and later identified a
photograph of Henry Selvitella.as being identical with theindividual
introduced to him as Noise. Selvitella is a Boston racketéér, ©

ia Informant related that Cavelli did not indicate to him the
purpose of the meeting, but did tell him that he wished hiin to accompany
him (Cavelli) in the near future on a trip to New York City in Order
to deliver a. large sum of money. & teeetiee

7

: The informant stated that in his opinion, “the
meeting had something to do with Bruno's Philadelphia numbers” operation
because of the presence of Testa and Cavelli.

This information presents a definite ‘opportunity to further
penetrate the operation of Bruno,who is the leader of the_Italian.-— >,

mob in that city. ae Ree. A 72 ie AU] IES

962
ACTION B MAY 15 1862

. The New York, Philadelphia and Boston Offices are being ma
to, vigorously pursue this investigation and to make every {
yea Niolationihdar! the" new antigambling statutes.

Ls

Docld:32561697 Page 1
