# docid-32326301

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System *

Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90045-10002

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 105-112098-392

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

NY

HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

02/10/1964

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

ALPHA 66

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DooId: 32326301

Page

---

## Page 2

FD 65 They

FEDERAL BUREẦU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/10/64!

11/20/63 - 1/27/64

REPORT MRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

Comer

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF

ESCAMBRAY (SNFE)

O (OPERATION ALPHA 66)

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS-CUBA

RA-CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

AIT INTORMATION CONTAINED

HOUSIN LE LNGLASSIFIED

3113/84

Piasabi:00

O MENAL SI

3g2 mae

902358691113586 RA/sce

REFERENCE:

15 911 324

NY report of SA FRANCIS J. O BRIEN,

Ins Angeles airtel with liN, dated 12/79/53/89/63

CH 8421602

PATTON ON SVBDL8

BY

242 PUT

3-11.-80

INFORMANT:

Identity of Source

NY T-1

CSNY 2822-S

File # Where Located

Instant report, pages

2,3,5

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 7-27-94 BYSPRMIRC/BY

(5FK)

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

*. DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

Bureau

(105-112098) (RM)

-Chicago

(105-13655)

(Info)

1112098+392

-REC- 34-

1-Los Angeles (105-13551)

Info) (RM)*

1-Miami (105-6243) (Info) (FM

I-Newark' (Info) (RM)

18 FEB

12, 1964

EX 5 112

I- New Haven (Into) E(Info%

1-San Juan (105-6133)

I-Tampa (Info) (RM)

1-washington Field (105-50870) (Info) (RM).

Dissemingtien Reggstef Altached Reporte7

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

*By

LAS/DIA

Copy to: CLA/State/R®/Cystems

ONI/OSI/ACSI

by routing ship tór inio.

Dote..

2.18

CONDENTIAL:

57 FEB 191964.07

DocId: 32326301

Page 2

---

## Page 3

3-3-59

Copy to:

UNI -ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ALI INFORMATTON CONTAINED,

HENCEN IS UCLASSIFIED

O MISSWISE

STICE

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

Character:

Synopsis:

ALL INFORMATION CO

HEREIN IS UNCLASS!

DATE 2-27-94 BY!

CONFO ANTIAL.

SA FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

2/10,64

105-57297

Office:

New York, New

York

Bureau File #:

105-112098

3/82/54

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT

OF ESCAMBRAY (SNFE)

(OPERATION ALPHA 66)

Classified log 4c

Declassify

2 tapt

CADR

FA35940

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

(3/1/85 583 B071/6CL)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

154,326

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

DECLASS,

801602

RICANTON ON 5 13018€

• BY

242PWTIA6.

Ny T-1 adyised that MIRIAM fESTE, who has been active

with Second National Front of Escambray (SNFE) (Operation Alpha

66) in New York,

resigned from the job on 11/28/63, to return

to Miami, Florida, to devote her full time to the

organizationix

Detective JOHN CAULFIELD, NYCPD, advised that SNFE - Alpha 66 -

Movimiento Revolucionario del Pueblo (MRP) sponsored an affair

at the Manhattan Center on 1/19/64. Detective CAULFIELD advised

that police estimated

l the attendance as over 3,300 and the

proceeds at about $11,000.00. SERGIO DIAZ, member of SNEE

Alpha 66 - MRP, stated that CECILIO J. VASQUEZ, Public Relations

Director for the organization in New York, currently is in

Caracas, Venezuela, on matters dealing with the organization.

HUMBERTO ARGUELLES Y HERNANDEZ, delegate of SNFE, - Alpha 66 -

MRP, advised

that the

affair held in Manhattan Center on

1/19/64, was to raise money for the future military plans of

the organization.

ARGUELLES stated that he had no previous

knowledge of any planned military action as such plans are held

secret and are carried out by the action group headed by

ex-Major ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO. INY T-I advised that MIRIAM

informed him that plans of SNFE - Alpha 66 - MRP were

"far advanced" and they

were confident. that there would be

fighting soon in cuba.

-P-

CONFDEANTAL

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32326301

Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 105-57297

DETAILS:

CONFISANTIAL

NY I-], who has furnished reliable information 1n

the past, advised on November 20, 1963, that MIRIAM TESTE,

who has been very active in the offices of the Second

National Front of Escambray (SNFE) (Operation Alpha 66),

advised her employer that she was resigning from her

job with a sugar firm, effective November 28, 1963.

NY T-1

advised MIRIAM TESTE had previously informed him that,

at the proper time, she would leave New York and go to

Miami, Florida,

to take part in military activities of

the SNFE-Alpha

66 organization.

NY I-l stated that MIRIAM TESTE,

on November 20,

1963, had advised him that the time was drawing near

when

the SNFE-Alpha 66 would take action against the

regime of Prime Minister FIDEL CASTRO in Cuba. Miss TESTE

had told NY I-l that the activity planned by SNFE-Alpha 66

would not be of making hit and run attacks against Cuba,.

but would be taking part in actual fighting inside Cuba.

NY T-] stated that Miss TESTE told him, on

November 20, 1963, that there should be fighting inside

Cuba during March, 1964, at the latest.. Miss TESTE stated

that the SNFE-Alpha 66 organization was going to devote

itself to infiltrating people inside Cuba and also to

guerilla activity. Miss TESTE stated that she planned

to leave New York as soon as she resigned from her job

effective November 28, 1963, in order to devote her

full

time

to the program of

SNEE-Alpha 66.K

Detective JOHN CAULFIELD, Bureau of Special Services,

New York City Police Department, on January 14, 1964,

advised that SNFE-Alpha 66-Movimiento Revolucionario del

Pueblo (MRP) had made arrangements for an affair to be

held at the Manhattan Center, 34th Street and Eighth

Ivenue, New York City, on January 19, 1904

Detective

CAULFIELD stated that

the SNFE-Alpha 66-MRP had rentec

the Manhattan Center for an entertainment, which would

last from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m., on January 19, 1964.

=2 =

COM

DENTIAL

DocId: 32326301 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NY 105-57297

CONFIDENTIAL

Detective JOHN CAULFIELD, on January 20, 1904,

advised that the SNFE-Alpha 66-MRP affair had been held

CAULFIELD advised that Cuban artists had entertained

of over 3,300

people.

Detective CAULFIELD advised

that police had checked the receipts for this affair

and the estimated receipts totalled $11,000. Detective

CAULFIELD advised that the affair was very successiul,

and there were no incidents during the course of the

entertainment.

NY T-1, on January 22, 1904

advised that he had

Spoken telephonically with MIRIaMTEste on that date, N.

and ascertained that she was currently residing at

202 Southwest

1th court Mami Forlad and that she

had telephone number 374-7571.

: И

Miss TESTE told NY I-l that she was devoting her

• time to the activities of SNFE-Alpha 66-MRP, and

that all her activities dealt with revolutionary matters.

Miss TESTE advised NY I-l that there was a great deal of

activity going on among anti-CASTRO organizations and

that the commendable thing about the activity was that

nobody was disclosing any of the details.

NY T-1 advised that Miss TESTE informed him that

the SNFE-Alpha 66-MRP expect a fight in Cuba soon and

that this organization is, at the present time, planning

a rather vigorous campaign against British products

since Great Britain and English firms continue to deal

with the

Cuba.

government of Prime Minister FIDEL CASTRO Of

SERGIO DIAZ

a member of SNFE-Alpha 66-MRP, who

assists in the

offices of this organization at 103 west

74th Street, New York City, on January 23, 1964, advised that

entertainers

present, and DIAZ advised that the program

was a linancial success, and the proceeds from this

entertainment would be used by the organization

to further

1,ts plans for military action in Cuba.

-3-

CONFIDEA

TAL

DocId: 32326301 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NY 105-57297

CONDENTIA!

ANGEL CARSAL A 1S on amen a 1964, that

SNFE-Alphe 66-MRP in New York. City, was currently the

delegate of the organization in Tampa, Florida.

stated that CARREGAL presently resides at 403 West

ARGUELLES

chelsea. Tampa,

to the organization

CARREGAI.•

on ta the dama are are in red bing

Ny I-1, on January 27, 1964, advised that he

had received a telephone call that day from MIRIAM TESTE

who aavised that the plans of SNE-Alpha 66-MRP were

NY T-1 advised that Miss TESTE did not

elaborate on this statement and only said that they

were very confident that there would be fighting in

Cuba soon, and that they felt that the time was right

for successful activity against Prime Minister

FIDEL CASTRO Of Cuba. (

Miss TESTE also informed NY I-l that there was

great activity within the organization, but that the

best part was that people were not discussing their

actions with anybody, and she maintained that it was

most important that their activity be kept secret and

quiet.

-5*

CONFEITIAL

DocId: 32326301

Page

---

