# docid_32304098

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10285-10110

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-3489-17

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BUOL. FREDERICK W.

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/09/1960

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: BBA, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/09/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 45703

DocId: 32304098

Page 1

---

## Page 2

JK 92-31

INFORMANT SOURCES:

Jacksonville Informant T-l is JK 6-C whose identity

is known to the Bureau.

Jacksonville Informant T-2 is

PCI, Jacksonville Division, who in the past has furnished

reliable information.

Jacksonville Informant T-3 is JOHNNIE WHALEN,

numbers man and gambler, PCI, Jacksonville Division.

Jacksonville Informant T-4 is

and bar waitress, Daytona Beach, Florida,

prostitute

who has specifically

requested that her identity remain anonymous..

She has in

past furnished reliable information.

Jacksonville Informant T-5 is JK 3-C whose identity

is known

to the Bureau.

Jacksonville Informant T-6 is ERNEST MINKLEY,

Office Manager, Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company,

Daytona Beach, who has specifically requested his identity

be protected, and who in the past has furnished reliable

information.

Confidential Informant Omaha T-1 is FLOYD KNOTT,

PCI, Omaha Division, who in the past has furnished reliable

information.

Confidential Informant Omaha T-2 is LEROY WADE, PCI,

Omaha Division, who in the past has furnished reliable

information.

Confidential Informant Kansas City T-l is MARY

FRICK, a PCI of the Kansas City Office, who has furnished

reliable information in the past.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Letterhead Memorandum evaluating informants

submitted with report.

OTHER 4

- B*-

COVER PAGE

783-80180

NW 45703 DocId: 32304098

Page 2

---

