# docid-32286246

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10195-10022

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1363

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/21/1964

3

SGI, ASSOC, MED, OC

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32286246

Page

1

70

---

## Page 2

SPRAINVESTIGATE DIVISION

3-23-64

Informant is Anthony Girolami,

former Alderman, City of Chicago,

and currently Democratic Ward

Committeeman, 28th Ward, Chicago.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREI

DATE 23-84 BYSP5056/CSC

DocId: 32286246

Page 2

---

## Page 3

N|*

4

11/

• AIRGRAM

DECODED

I CABLEGRAM

COPy

• RADIO

XX TELETYPE

mas

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Gale -

Rosen A

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room -

Holmes

Gandy =

10÷21 AM CST DEFERRED 3-21 - 64 JLS

TÓ DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO

200910

ALSO KNOWN AgAultacketeoring

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

CG

6498-C-TE ÄDVISED THAT LATE ON THE NIGHE, OF MARCHES LAST,

HE WAS: SURREPTIOUSLY

CRIMINAL

CONTACTED BY JACK/CERONE.

CERONE SEVERAL

TIMES INFORMED

LAT HE"DID NOT WANT GIANCANA TO KNOW OF

CONTACT: AND CI SHOULD INFORM NO ONE OF CONTACT. MENTIONED

SEVERAL THINGS SUGGESTING TO CI "SOMETHING IS GOING ON IN. THE S,

OUTFIT" AND SPEGIFICALLY MENTIONED BAD HEALTH OF FRANKAFERRARO ..

CI FEELS THAT CERONE WAS FEELING CI OUT TO DETERMINE EXTENT OF

CI'S LOYALTY TO GIANCANA AND HOODLUMS CLOSE TO GIANCANA.. NOTED

THAT CI GREW UP INADUACENT RESIDENCE AND WAS FAIRLY CLOSE

BOYHOOD FRIEND OF CERONE. V

CI SPECULATED THAT THERE MAY BE IMPENDING SHAKEUP IN

ORGANIZED CRIME HERE AND THAT CERONE PROBABLY FEELS THAT HE IS

HEREIN

SONTENDER FOR TOP SPOT SHOULD GIANCANA BE REPLACED. NOTE THAT

*SOURCES HAVE ADVISED THAT INFO RE HEALTH OF FERRARO IS CLOSELY

HELD SECRET AND THAT HUMPHREYS OBVIOUSLY IS UNAWARE THAT CERONE

JESNOWS. V

CI FEELS THAT CERONE IS CERTAINLY ONE OF 23 HOODLUMS HERE

MHO

ARE LOGICAL SUCCESSORS TO GIANCANA, IF STORIES OF

§'ANCANA'S REPLACEMENT HAVE ANY ACCURACY. CI ADVISED THAT NOT

CONLY 1S CERONE AN INTELLIGENT, ARTICULATE PERSON WHO READS EVERY

IFIED

BEST SELLER WRITTEN, BUT HE UNDOUBTEDLY WOULD HAVE THE BACKING

ANTHONY ACCARDO AND PAULARICCA, FORMER MEMBERS OF THE

71!

REC- 43021

42-3171-1363

• MAR 24 1964

57 APR 2

1964

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32286246

Page 3

---

