# docid-32106438

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY: CIA

RECORD NUMBER :

104-10006-10014

RECORD SERIES :

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 201-289248

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

FBI

TO :

TITLE:

REPORT THAT OSWALD ATTENDED PARTY GIVEN BY RUBEN AND SYLVIA DURAN IN

SEPTEMBER OR OCTOBER 1963.

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

12/11/1964

5

DURAN, RUBEN

PAZ, ELENA

MEXICO CITY

DURAN, SILVIA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

. DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/16/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

OSW12:V52 1993.06.16.16:57:56:620000:

19.1

DoCId: 32106436

Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

43645

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

8-

7-93

In Reply, Please Refer, to

File

No.

WASHINGION 25, D. G.

December 11, 1964

THE CIA HAS NO MAURCTION

TO THE DECLASSIREETON UP

THE DOCUMENT.

AUTHORTY: fiR. 102

FEWERE LEE HARVEY OSWALD Repel

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

-ECr

MICROFILMED

FED 1 7 1965

DOC. MICRO. SER

The following information was zupplied

on

November 24, 1964, by Mrs. ELENA CARIO DE PAZ aNd her

daughter, ELENA PAZ GARFO.

They are residents of Mexico City, but declined

to supply their home

adaress.

Mrs. PAZ stated she is a

She said she had not

furnished previously the information set forth hereinafter

because of

fear of reprisals.

Mrs. PAZ said that on August 23, 1963, she attended

a dinner at the home of a Mexican Communist whom she declined

to identify.

Among others present at this dinner were Cuban

Consul EUSEBIO AZCUE and his wife.

She had not previously

known AZCUE. In conversation with him during the course of

the evening

she learned that he was supposed to return to

Cuba on or about August 27, 1963. She later learned that

he did not depart Mexico at that time.

trandeed?

with her cousins, the DURANS; however, on a date she fixed

as Saturday, September 28, 1963, she received a telephone

call from RUBEN DURAN, who invited her and her daughter to

attend a party at his house during the first part of the

following week.

She was unable to fix the exact date of

this party, but felt it had been held on Monday, Tuesday,

or Wednesday, September 30, Ostober 1, and October 2,

1963, respectively, with the most likely possibility

was held on the

evening of October 1 or October 2, 1963.

It was Mrs. PAZ' recollection that at about

46281245

DocId: 32106438

Page 2

---

## Page 3

9:00 a.m. on the date of the party she and her daughter were

picked up and taken to the party by LIdIa DURAN.

Also

accompanying them was Mrs. DAZ' sister, DEVA GARRO DI

GUERRERO GAVAN.

She described this sister as a Communist

who was expelled from the Party for boing a Catholic.

She estimated

that some thirty people attended

the party, described as a "twist" party, at the home of

RUBEN DURAN. Upon arrival at RUBEN's hone she noted what

appeared to be a young American couple near the door, but

they left shortly thereafter.

At about 10:30 p.M. three young, white Americans

arrived at the party.

They were greeted by SILVIA DURAN

and spoke only to her.. They more or lesn isolated thenselves

from the rest of the party and inscfar as she observed they

had no conversation with anyone else at the party.

The three Americans appeared to be between twenty-two

and twenty-four years of age.

One of

them was dressed in a

sweater and dark trousers and appeared to be about five feet

nire inches in height.

The second one was about six feet

tall, had blond, straight hair, a long chin, and vas a bit

"beatnik" in appearance although his dress included a coat.

The third American wore no coat.

Mrs. PAZ said the Anerican dressed in the susater

and dark trousers resembled very nuch press phoingrachs of

LEE HARVEY OSWALD.

Her daughter agreed with this observation.

Photographs of OSWALD in various poses were exhibited to

both Mrs. PAZ and her daughter at the time of the interview

and they were unable to make a positive identitication, but

claimed he very much resembled the American at the party as

they recall him.

Mrs. PAZ could not state how long the three

Americans

remained

at the party nor did she observe them

when they departed. She questioned HORACIO DURAN as to the

names of the Americans, and he told her they were iriends

Of SILVIA DURAN.

He did not give her their namos, but did

tell her they were supposed to depart Moxico City the

following morning. She added that this latter was not

correct inasnuch as she and her daughter, while driving

in an automobile on Insurgentes Street the following morning,

observed the three Americans walking

near a furniture store

on that street.

-2-

Do01d: 32106436 Page 3

---

## Page 4

It is to be noted that investigation has established

that LEE HARVEY OSWALD departed Mexico City by bus at 8:30

a.m. on October 2, 1963, and could not have been identical

with the American

allegedly observed by Mrs. PAZ at the

party if this party were held on

the

evening of October

1

or October 2, 1963.

Mrs. PAZ was questioned regarding the identity of

other persons attending the party at the RUBEN DURAN home

who might have been in a position to observe the three

Americans.

She said that in the course of

the party her

daughter met a young man named "ALEJANDRO" at the party and

danced with him.

He was

apparently quite snitten with the

daughter and tried to call her on several occasions after

the party.

The daughter did not take the calls and

as a

result "ALEJANDRO" wrote several letters to the daughter.

Mrs. PAZ exhibited two of these letters, as well as a

business card which identified the young man as ARio

ALEJANDRO LAVAGNINI STENIUS.

An examination of the letter which Mrs. PAZ said

was the first directed to her daughter by the young man

disclosed that it bears the date of September 1, 1963, and

was postmarked at the Mexico City Post Office on September 2,

1963.

Questioned as to whether her daughter had known the

young man prior to the

party at the RUBEN DURAN home, Mrs.

PAZ was most insistent that she had not.

When it vas pointed

out to her that the first letter from the young man to her

daughter bore a Mexico City postmark of september 2, 1963,

she commented that probably the Communists have facilities

for falsifying postmarks.

On November 27, 1964, ARIO ALEJANDRO LAVAGNINI

STENIUS, Martinez de Castro No. 19, Tacubaya, Mexico, D. F.,

Mexico, was interviewed.

He advised that he

is an employee

of General Electric de Mexico and recalled attending a large

party sometime in the latter half of 1963 at the apartment

of RUBEN DURAN located on Herodoto Street in Mexico City.

He was not a friend of the DURAN family, but had been invited

to the party by urs. ISABEL NANSON, a divorcee who was

formerly married to an American and a close friend of the

wife of RUBEN DURAN. An Italian friend of his, MARCELLO

FABRE, was also invited to the party by Mrs. NANSON. He,

NIS. NANSON, and FABRE went to the party together.

=3-

DocId: 32106438 Page 4

---

## Page 5

144/3

LAVAGNINI recalled that there were about thirty

people at the party, few of whom he knew. At the party he

met a Mexican girl who had recently returned from living in

France.

He was unable to fix the date of the party, but

felt it was probably early in September because of

a heavy

rain which occurred as they were leaving the party at

about 2:00 a.m.

LAVAGNINI noted no Americans prosent at this party.

He was familiar with the appearance of LEE HARVEY OSWALD

because of publicity following the assassination of President

KENNEDY, but otherwise had no knowledge of him and had never

seen him except for news photographs following the assassination.

He volunteered to consult his papers and attempt to

fix the date of the party.

On December 2, 1964, he advised

that he recalled having been at two different parties at the

DURAN home, one of these being the large party at which he

had met the Mexican girl who had formerly lived in France.

He was unable to fix the date of this party.

LAVAGNINI said he had questioned Mrs. NANSON and

MARCELLO FABRE, and they were unable to recall the date of

the party, nor could they recall that any Americans had beer

present at the party.

111289243

DocId: 32106438

Page

5

---

## Page 6

= SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

MFF

4-63

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and

forward to RID.

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records

significant action taken or comments requir-

ing preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not proper, in-

sert proper file no. below and forward doc-

ument to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/AN

MICROFILMED

FEB 1 7 1965

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

DOC. MICRO. SER.

TO

ROOM

NO.

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

HEA

OFFiCER'S

INITIALS

2.

CI/RA

2C

29 22 Xc

61965.

3.

5.

RID/ AN hu. Arust 25 Jan 65 WFA

2-4

Bill,

phs. note abstract not

made out as indicated

bye. Pes. have it

also, plo. ZR to Duran.

201.

6.

RID/MIS

8.

4-6/ Pls. reabstract to

pick up complete subject

as written out and underline

s. note: this dorin

10.

RID /AN Mu. amst

WFA

CIRA

12.

13.

RID/MIS

BSC

16-121

Pls. ZR info underlined as

salaj. For

201-740720

14.

15.

RID/PS

16.

17.

CI/RA

RID/FI

ABSTRACT

TRACE

REQUEST

INDEX

DATE MICROFILMED

2IS1

LEAI

RI/1003

RI/PS

A/MARA

12g

AN MULEI

FILE TITLE

AEST

LADSTRACT

INDEX

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)

201-289248

DOCUMENT DATE

DOCUMENT NUMBER

DBA

93645

11 Dec 64

FORM

610a

USE

PREVIOUS

SECRET

(40)

DocEd: 32106138

Page 6

---

