# docid-32279254

## Page 1

8/26/2014

National Archives and Records Administration

JFK Full Results

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JEK.

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10068-10158

RECORDS SERIES

:HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-24016-901

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: LEGAT, LO

TO

:

[No To]

TITLE

[No Titlel

DATE

01/02/1964

PAGES

: 2

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : WILSON, CARL JOHN, BKG

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 11/30/1993

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

* Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

1/1

---

## Page 2

ANT. IIFORMATION CONTAINED

MENDEN IS UNCBASSIFIED

EXCEFT #MERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

COPIES

DESTROYED

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

January 2, 1964

CARL JOHN KILSON

12.19

JANO 1 1973

T-1,

a confidential source abroad, advised on

December 18t/1963 that WILSON,

John Henry

Wilson and

1915. YL1soa/todson, was born in triverpool on tovenber 29 SChile

(England

In 1936 while attending Liverpool University he

spain

took part in some Communist Party (CP) activities:

This

was due to his association with a Russian engineer whom he

met at the University and at the engineer's invitation

ary

spent 17 weeks in Russia in 1935.

During

1936-1938 he was in Spain on three occasions

and furnished a

series of highly colored and exaggerated

accounts of his achievements with the Spanish Republican Air

Force.

He advised he was shot down on more than one occasion,

was captured and made his escape.

T-1 stated another indi

vidual who knew WILSON in Spain advised that WILSON was

useless as an airman, was never a pilot and fiew on one

occasion only as a gunner.

T-I stated in 1938 when he returned to England he

Spent three months in prison for passport fraud in connection

with his trip to Spain. Later in 1938 he went to Buenos

Aires and then to Chile where his anti-British activities

caused embarrassment to the government and nearly led to his

expulsion. In 1954 WILSON attempted to act as an intermediary

in a copper deal with a Chilean firm.

T-I apprizes subject

as a

of his activities and to seek publicity for them.

case, always eager to inflate the importancels

Chief Inspector JOHN PEARCE, New Scotland Yard

advised on December 27, 1963 that in addition to subject's

three months imprisonment in 1938 he was also fined 65 on

August 2; 1935 in Liverpool for false pretenses.

is Cat. l

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI.

It is the property of

the TS! cot is Koned to your agency?

• rat to be

1.enc%.

wigrating

atta

declassification

SE CRET

B/23/92

Classified by 9803108/ge

for bedassily on: Haps

re: JFK

Stutt

11-112

DocId: 32279254 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNOLASSIDIED

EXCEPT WAGNE SHOWN

OTHERVISE

SECRET.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

January 2, 1964

CARL JOHN WILSON

T-I; a confidential source abroad, advised on

December 18, 1963 that WILSON; aka, John Henry Wilson and

Juan

1915.

Wilson Hodson, was born in Liverpool on November 29 (S

In 1936 while attending Liverpool University he

took part in some Communist Party (CP) activities. This

was due to his association with a hussian engineer whom he

met at the University and at the engineer's invitation

(S)

spent 17 weeks in Russia in 1935

During 1936-1938 he was in Spain on three occasions

and furnished a series of highly colored and exaggerated

accounts of his achievements with the Spanish Republican Air

Force.

He advised he was shot down on more than one occasion,

was captured and made his escape. D-l stated another indi

vidual who knew WILSON in Spain advised that WILSON was

useless as an airman, was never a pilot and flew on one

occasion only as a gunner.

T-I stated in 1938 when he returned to England he

spent three months in prison for passport fraud in connection

with his trip to Spain. Later in 1938 he went

to Buenos

Aires and then to Chile where his anti-British activities

caused embarrassment to the government and nearly led to his

expulsion. In 1954 WILSON attempted to act as an intermediary

in a copper deal with a Chilean firm.

T-1 apprizes subject

as a paychopathto case, alare soger to inflate the importance

of his activities and to seek publicity.

for them,

Chief Inspector JOHN PEARCE, New Scotland Yard,

advised on December 2t, 1963 that in addition to subject's

three months imprisonment in 1938 he was also fined k5 on

August 2, 1935 in Liverpool for false pretenses,

my cat t

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

matic

the FBI.

It is the property of

the FBI and is leaned to your agency;

it and its contents

are not to be

Alassie+

and

distributed outside your agency.

SECRET

12/23/95

Classified by 9803 2d2/se

Declassify on: DADR

AR:IFK

DocId: 32279254 Page 3

---

