# docid-32323999

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90024-10023

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1165

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO:

NY

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/07/1963

1

DOCUMENT TYPE:

GLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SAM GIANCANA

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

TT

v9.1

DocId: 32323999

Page 1

370

---

## Page 2

8/8/63

SIT EN

CODE

TELETYPE

12-3171-1165

URGENT

TO

NEW

YORK

LAS VEGAS

FROM DIRECTOR FBI

SANUEL M. GIANCANA,.

BELVEL AUGUST SIS LAST.

A'LINFORMATIO CONTAINED

DATE 483/01

IV SHOULD BE AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE TO MIE NEVADA GAMING

CONTROL. BOARD IN CONNECTION WITH ITS INQUIRY CONCERNING POSSIBLE

REVOCATION OF RICINSE GAL NEVA LODGE.

HOWVE, IN ORDER TO PROTECT

THIS IDENTITY OF OUR INTORIANT, WHO OCCUPIES A HIGHLY SENSITIVE

RELATION WITH GIANCANA, ONLY LEAD-TYPE INFORUATION

SHOULD BE

FURNISHED TO THE GAMING BOARD AT THIS POINT.

IN VIEY OF THE

CIRCUUSTANCES AND IN ORDER TO COLPLETALY PROTECT OUR SOURCES, MY

WILL NOT CONTACT SCI WILLIANSON AT THIS TIME FOR THE PURPOSUS

INDICATED IN RETEL. A

KI BURIAU ADVISED OT ALL DIVEROPHETS. COPY BY HAIL TO CG.

CHICAGO

COS LATED - DIT DUT

VIA TELETYPE

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tale. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

RocId: 32323999

(48

NOTE:

CG topphoodlum Samuel Giancana

the Cal-Neva

Lodge, Lake Tahoe, Nev., 7/27/63, and while there engaged in a fight

with Victor Collins, bodyguard-business manager of the McGuire sisters.

Nev. /Gaming Control

Board (NGCB) investigating matter re possibility

sambling license at the Lodge. NGCE has requested holder of the

Buassistance in

identifying Collins and his availability for testimony. Due to highl;

sensitive nature of Bu's info & danger of exposing our confidential

source, NK instructed not

to make contact with informant at this

time

concerning Collins' availability for testimony.

ghes

gect source, LV authorized to furnish lead-type info

to

NGCB

for its assistance in investigation.U

MAIL ROOM

Page 2

TELETYPE UNIT

---

