# docid-32315618

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10342-10336

RECORD SERIES: DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-228-1080

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SHELBURNE

TO :

DE

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

02/10/1964

1

ANTHONY GIACALONE (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32315618

Page 1

45

---

## Page 2

2%r.

SAC, DETROIT (8% 138 Sub 2)

February 10, 1964

SA JOIN L. GUELEORNS

VIZO GIACALONE

A2

sensitive naturo of this Infernant care

sbould be utilised in

tho dissenination of this satormtion.

DI 919-C* advised on 12/10/63, that ANTHONY GIACALAME

bad stated that HICK DITTA was scheduled to kill an individual

with a shotgs.

According

to tho Intornant, it

belleved

that this intividual might be TOur rocco. Accorciag to the

Informant, CINCALONE nontioned the "old mn" and this night

possibly refer to sAM PERBONS.

Also montioned was PETE LOMBARDO.

According to the Intormant, this shooting was posably to tale

place on Sunday night at approsinately 10:00 P.M. and would

bo in a mahroon at the gas station.

Informant stated that DICtA

mould enter the sas station prior to this time and ronove the

San fron electricar Tuse box so that the lights would not

so on after the intended victim and possibly a secom victim

were in the tuilding and mable

to tura on the lighte, DITTA

would then

shoot thou with his shotgue.

re, paro pucalead no no rade danger containe

More the ringing a du a senionaters dient ou

LENDAXION

The above information mus furnished to Ill since they

have an Informant by the pone of AVENQUY TOCCO and 1t vas 450

furnished to the Detroit Police Departnont CiB, at

later date,

црен

instructions of the Dureau.

82m 484

98-333

92876

58 228

(SAX PERIONL)

(NICE DITTA)

(Crime Condit lons

(ANTHONY GEACALONE)

Michigan)

JLS/AL

(5)

92-228-1080

ms.

Junt

10349-10338

DocId: 32315618

Page 2

---

