# docid-32259802

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

10/14/20

Agency Information

AGENCY :

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10102-10360

RECORD SERIES :

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 009351

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: BLAKEY, G. ROBERT

TO: KURTZ, JEROME; IRS

TITLE:

DATE: 05/25/1978

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

IRS; FILES

BRADEN, JAMES

DOCUMENT TYPE: LETTER

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1996

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Attached addendum from James Braden. Box 171.

Noteaced under the John i. kennedy assassination Records Collection Let of 1992 199 USC 2107

Case#:NU 55923 Date: 02-02-2018

v9.1

HH 55923

DooId: 32259802

Page 1

1

---

## Page 2

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

-HARDSON' PREYER, N.C.

FALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO

STEWART A. MCKINNEY,. CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF

CHARLES THONE NEOR.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J, FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. House of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

May 25, 1978

009351

HAND DELIVERED

Mr. Jerome Kurtz

Commissioner of Internal Revenue

1111 Constitution Avenue, N. W.

Washington, D. C. 20224

Attention: Director: Disclosure Operations Division

CP:D P. Fauconnet

Room 3619

Dear Mr. Commissioner:

In connection with the investigation by this

Committee into the death of President John F. Kennedy,

enclosed is the additional waiver we received from Mr.

James Braden to give us access to the information con-

cerning him listed in this waiver which is supplemental to

the waiver attached to my letter of May 17, 1978.

As

stated in that letter, the Committee requests that counsel

on our

staff be permitted to speak with Special Agent Gabe

Dennis in Los Angeles concerning the matters which Mr.

Braden has permitted to be disclosed to the Committee.

The Committee appreciates the continued coopera-

tion it is receiving from your Disclosure Division in

facilitating the preparation of these records.

Thank you

very much for your cooperation with the Select Committee's

investigation.

Sincerely,

S. Nobut Blokey

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

Enclosure

GRB: apj

HH 55923

DocId: 32259802 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZATION FOR RELEASE OF

TAX. RETURNS, TAX RETURN INFORMATION

•AND INVESTIGATIVE DATA

"SADDENDUM TO RELEASE SIGNeD

BY MR.:, BRADEN ON MAY 16, 1978

I, James Braden,

hereby authorize the release by

the Internal Revenue Service of all tax returns, tax return

information, and investigative data in the possession of the

IRS which pertains to myself, for the years 1969-1974. The

above materials which I authorize to release should include

the complete tax returns, tax return information and investi-

gative data pertaining to myself..

During the years 1958-1963, my legal name was

Eugene Hale Brading. My name was legally changed to James

Braden in September, 1963.

This release is authorization

for all the named files concerning Eugene Hale Brading as

well as James Braden.

members on the staff of the Select Committee on Assassinations,

and the Members of that Committee, including but not limited

to Messrs. Donald Purdy, John Hornbeck, James McDonald, Ralph

Salerno, James Wolf, Ann Taylor, Howard. Shapiro, Leslie Wizel-

man and

Mark Flanagan.

My current address is:

3224 Peachtree Road, N.E.

Atlanta, Georgia

30305

My Social Security Number is

510-09-4309

---

