# docid-32324515

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90029-10007

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 100-400646-49

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection det of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Cases:NT 45907 Date:

74-11-2018

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

ARMY

USA

DATE: 06/28/1953

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

THOMAS R. PEASNER

WEEKLY SUMMARY OF DOM INTELL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF USA

COMMENTS: SUMMARY;

v9.1

HH 45907

DocId: 32324515

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1/1.

FD.t

11:16

CONFIDENIAH

eins form

7707.5

Security Information

Hq Fourth Army,

OAC/S, G2,

Fort

Sam Houston, Texas, WEEKLY SUMMARY OF DOMESTIC

INTELLIGENCE, 28 June 1953,

Report No.

66.

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

EXTRACT:

*

*

*

*

* ***

DA 5-7-987 2

5068, SLD/KSR +

POW ASKS WIF

80 JOIN IN CAMPATEN FOR WORIS FRACE

Te/(

(Confidential)

Mrs

*has recently

MIKS.

received letters from her

er husband, Prt

6(3)

POW Camp

Democratic People's Republic of North Korea,

which are worthy of note. In a

letter dated 3 Dec 52, and mailed care of, The Chinese People's Committee for

20/KSM

5-98

World Peace,

requested his wife to join him in his "work in the fight

world peace". After reiterating the need for world peace, the POW asked his

wife "to sit down and write 5 letters supporting or requesting support of worldondo

peace, Address them to Senator Tom Connally, President Eisenhower, Paul Robesos

John Gates (publisher of the New York Daily Worker), and Howard Fast. You may

0s

address Robeson and Fast care of Masses and Mainstream, 832 Broadway, New York, E, 2

N.Y., of which magazine they are contributing editors"

went on to say

"I know that merely as my wife a more than sufficient body of material will present

itself. Express your doubts of the so-called 'benefits' of the Korean war. Think

of how the Korean people are being systematically destroyed. Think of your

personal suffering in an international light, as the suffering of all the wives of

men in Korea, Indonesia, Malaya, etc. And remember who is behind it all. Think

and write Irom the viewpoint of the working class.

and I am sure that you will

INDEXED- 74

bring this project

to a successiul conclusion 10oon as possible..

In closing

* his letter.

presented a rather sordid picture of what. the world might be

like in the event of another world war

100-400646

On 17 May 53, Ср.

342

Werd 9, Faroy Jones Army Hospital, Battle

Creek, Mich., wrote

to Mrs.

in answer to questions she had asked about her

husband.

'POW returnee

new him.

for some time but I

got to know or understand

Fois nevie

mecause he attains a much higher

TO NESIUG AD 105P GATED 4/20/28

HH 45907

DocId:32324515

Page 2

---

## Page 3

LCONFI

Security inior

TIAL!

intellectual plane than I do and he doesn't come down to earth much. So because

of that I cannot tell you hardly how he has adapted himself of course, I believe

to be only fair I should not say anything that he might not want to have said."

mentioned

from Cal," with whom

had been composing

music when he

was not "playing cards and reading.". According to

letter,

Mrs.

has received about 6 letters from her husband,

which

considared about average. The hospitalized POW returnee added,

in closing, "as for him writing articles, I could not say about that. But I'm

sure if he wrote any they were of his own free will".

(RO Dallas)

EK ACt 6(3%

(B-2)

(Fourth Army) G2 Comment:

(Confidential) It appears tha

may

have been subjected to an intensive Communist indoctrination program as a

POW. As his letter contains elements of the CP line, it is possible he may

have fallen victim to the Indoctrination program. It is also possible that

may have found it expedient to cooperate with the Chinese authorities

while not actually believing in their principles. Whatever the case, The

Chinese People's Committee for World Pease is probably using

for

propaganda purposes.

(Negro),

are all well known

American CP members.

The Daily Worker is the official organ of the American

CP and the Masses and Mainstream (now the New Masses) has been cited by the

House Un-American Activities Committee as a CP front publication.

(B-2)

CONFIDANTIAL

Security formation

2

НН 45907 DocId:32324515 Page 3

---

