# docid-32316711

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10351-10018

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 137-1601-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: CG

TITLE :

DATE: 10/28/1963

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CG 5973-C

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF USA

COMMENTS :

REFERRED TO USA

v9.1

DocId: 32316711

Page 1

---

## Page 2

. =

7-44 (REV. 2-18-63)

1371601-

SAC, Chicago

DEtOber 251

190s

Director, FBI

LEIPZIG INZZAATIONAL

LEIPZIG, FAST GERMANY

S- EAST GERMANY

REGISTERED MAIL

Boun

Attached is the translation which you.

requested by letter

dated 10/11/63, copy herowish. W

The contents thereof, where pertinent, must be reported.

under appropriate captions and

afforded whatever investigative

attention is necessary. U

BI(0L051132: Disposition of the foreign language material submitted in

this connection is set forth below: y•

Forwarded herewith. U

its

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel wIt

Trotter

Tole. Room -

Holmes -

Gandy

I

1

Bonn (105-4352) - Enclosure

091 г.

Mr. Sullivan (Attention:

Research satellite! Section,

sent

direct with enclosure)

1 - Foreign Liaison

nit without enmalestra route throug

•eview)

for

Enc.

(5)

MAIL ROOM

N: asbest

(6)1

-T TYPE UNIT I

ОСТ

28 1963

sató!

COMM-FBI

203..

105-125093

ORIGINAY FILET

) ENCT,OSURE

1514

APA OPRIATE AGENCIES

AND I

ELD OFFICES

ADVISFiS

SAT 0-21

2530

1963

DocId: 32316711

Page 2

EXTENDEUAL

MASON FOR

DECLASSIFiCATION.

10. 28.893

74804

Gradine

CONFIDENTIAL

(OFK: 1/38/98

---

## Page 3

-....-

SUMMARY FROM GERMAN

COISICENTIAL

Typewritten airmail letter (postmark illegible)

addressed to

Leipziger Messe

Presseabteilung

Leipzig, Germany

(Meaning: Leipzig Fair

Press Section)

from

Luis Kutner

Chairman of

the Board

International Public

Relations Corporation

Bankers Building

105 lost Adans Street

Chicago, Illinois

This letter was written in Chicago on September 13, 1963.

The writer says that he has not seen any publicity for the

Leipzig Fair in the American Press of the Middle West.

The writer says that thousands of business opportunities

will get lost and thousands of potential visitors will be detained.

He points out that in Chicago, Illinois, over 700,000 German-

Americans live; among them, hundreds of

thousands

from Saxony and

Thueringia who would like

to visit their old homeland and the

Leipzig Fair.

The writer says that he is able to get reports

pertaining to the Leipzig Fair and "other achievements in the

German Democratic Republic" into the American and foreign-

language press of the Middle West.

He thinks that the addressee

will be interested in placing announcements about the Leipzig

Fair in the German-language newspapors in Chicago and Milwaukee.

"I have been engaged for many years in public relations

work and was formerly a professor of law at Yale University and

Consul General of Guatemala in Chicago. I can find in my work

the support of numerous experienced persons and have the necessary

social relations in order to make our cooperation an outstanding

success."

SUMMARIZED BY:

FRIEDRICH NEUHAUSER: dsba

October 24, 1963

7/28/98

5668SC0/GCL

(AK)

INCE OCTAR:

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32316711 Page 3

---

