# docid-32307917

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/20/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10293-10275

HQ

92-6054-2131

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

JENKINS, FRANCIS B.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 09/22/1967

'PAGES:

33

SUBJECTS :

LCN, COMMISSION, SM, ASSOC, BU, GAMBLING ACT,

BONANNO, JOSEPH, DISPUTE, CRIMINAL ACT, ITALY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2

19.1

DocId: 32307917

15

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-26:3 Rev: 3863)

FEDERAL DUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

BUFFALO

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

BUFFALO

LA COSA NOSTRA

BUFFALO DIVISION

DATE

9/22/67

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

8/14 - 9/18/67

REPORT MADE

BY

FRANCIS B. JENKINS

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR - CONSPIRACY

TYPED BY

: bmp

REFERENCE:

Bureau airtel to New York,

dated 8/11/67.

- P.

ENCLOSURES

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEDM 250,179

DATE 4/19/25 BYG= BJAGCe

TO BUREAU

AND NEW YORK

Two copies of a letterhead memorandum charac-

terizing informants utilized in the Details of this report.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED:

CONVIC

AUTO.

FUG.

FINES

SAVINGS

None

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT.

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR REYES LINO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

DYES REINO

APPROVED

OPIESMADE

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

3. - Bureau

1

223)

92-605412131

(92-6054) (5ngni 3) (AM-RN)

- Albany

(92-535)

2 - New York

(92-2300) (Encs.

2), (AM-RM)

2 - Buffalo

(92-337)

REC 26

ST-115

22 SEP 25 1967

was is

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fid.

How twd.

Bv

514

660CT 1 8 1967

NEXE

STAT SECT.

DocId: 32307917 Page 2

---

## Page 3

BU 92-337

LEADS

ALBANY (INFORMATION)

One copy of this report

is being furnished the

Albany Office in view of the fact that close associates

of members of the "Magaddino Family"

reside in the Albany

and Buffalo Field Divisions.

BUFFALO

AT BUFFALO, NEW YORK

Will correlate pertinent information developed in

the course of investigations of individual La Cosa Nostra

members.

INFORMANTS

Source

BU T-1

BU 280-C*

BU T-2

NY 4336-C-TE

BU T-3

BU 319-C-TE

BU T-4

PCI RICHARD V. SINIBALDI

_ B-

Cover Page

923-991R.

DocId: 32307917

Page 3

---

## Page 4

...=

BU 92-337

INFORMANTS

(Continued)

Source

BU T-15

PX 777-C-TE

BU T-16

BU 382-C-TE

BU T-17

BU 351-C-TE

BU I-18

AL 3136-C

BU T-19

PH 599-C-TE

ADMINISTRATIVE

Two copies of the letterhead memorandum charac-

terizing the informants utilized in this report are being

furnished the New York Office for use in

preparation of

the national summary report.

- D*-

Cover Page

DocId: 32307917

Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-26:3 ' Rev: 3-86:1

Forerju

FEDERAL

DUREAU OF INVES FIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

BUFFALO

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

BUFFALO

LA COSA NOSTRA

BUFFALO DIVISION

DATE

9/22/67

INVESTIGATiVE PERIOD

8/14 - 9/18/67

REPORT MADE BY

FRANCIS B. JENKINS

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR - CONSPIRACY

TYPED BY

: bmp

REFERENCE:

Bureau airtel to New York,

dated 8/11/67.

- P.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED* 250,079

DATE 419/25

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU

AND NEW YORK

Two copies of a letterhead memorandum charac-

terizing informants utilized in the Details of this report.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED:

None

CONVIC

AUTO.

FUG

FINES

SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT-

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR DYES DINO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

TYES EINO

APPROVED

- Bureau

1

- Albany

2

- New York

2

- Buffalo

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-6054

2131

(92-6054) (Bnents) (AM-RM)

92-535)

Info)

RM)

(92-2300) (Encs.

2) (AM-RM)

(92-337)

REC 26

ST-115

22 SEP 25 1967

was is

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Dale Fwd.

How Fwd.

B+

660CT 1 8 1967

DocId: 32307917 Page 5

NINE

STAX, SECT.

---

## Page 6

BU 92-337

INFORMANT'S

(Continued)

Source

BU T-5

NY 4857-C-TE

BU T-6

BU 409-C-TE

BU T-7

BU 332-C-TE

BU T-8

BU 82-C*

BU T-9

BU 305-C-TE

BU 1-10

BU 258-C*

BU T-11

Assistant Chief of

Detectives MICHAEL AMICO

BuIlaLo POlice Department

Buffalo, New York

BU T-12

JOSEPH VALACHI

BU T-13

BU 297-C-TE

BU T-14

Royal Canadian Mounted Police

Ontario, Canada

Cover Page.

92-6054-2131

J. 109.18

DocId: 32307917

Page 6

---

## Page 7

BU 92-337

Investigation has developed that the COTRONI

Brothers have controlled or played a major role in direct-

ing all major criminal activities in the Montreal area.

Previous reports have identified the members of the

COTRONI organization.

In March of 1966, PETER A. MAGADDINO and DOMINIC

ROMEO were reportealy in touch with VINCENT COTRONI and

PAUL VIOLI in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

On November 28, 1966, the Montreal Police Depart-

ment, Montreal, Quebec,

Canada, arrested WILLIAM BONANNO,

also

known as Salvatore Vincent Bonanno, the son of JOE

BONANNO, PATRICK and VITO DE FILIPPO, LOUIS GRECO, PETER

on Grand Island, New York, for several years. These indi-

viduals refused

to furnish any information as to the purpose

of their being in Canada. They were all subsequently

deported from Canada.

On January 15, 1967, BU T-14 advised that VINCENT

COIRONI of Montreal, Quebec, had in recent days been en-

gaged in a number of meetings at Montreal.

The informant

was of the opinion that this indicated some type of a meeting

in the United States in the near future, which meeting would

probably be attended by COTRONI, who had left Montreal for

an unknown destination.

According to informant, there is some indication

that COTRONI had been in difficulty with the "Magaddino

Family" in Buffalo, New York, and there have been efforts

on the part of COTRONI to negotiate some sort of settlement

relative to these difficulties.

It was suggested at one

time that corroNt, himself, might travel to the United

States but when he apparently refused to do so,

PAUL VIOLI

was suggested as a possible intermidiary.

VIOLI, however,

according to BU T-14, refused to travel to the United

States when assurances as to his safety were apparently

not forthcoming.

-11-

92-6054-2131

DocId: 32307917 Page 7

---

## Page 8

BU 92-337

According

the "Bonanno Group," and there, COrRONI is a member of

Is speculation that this

"bury the hatchet" by the

LA COSA NOSTRA

INTERNAL DISSENSION

In December of 1966, information was received

from BU T-15 to the effect that PETER JOSEPH MAGADDINO

had visited with JOSEPH BONANNO apparently to act as an

intermidiary between BONANNO and STEVE MAGADDINO. It was

conjectured that BONANNO was attempting to regain control

of his former "Family" of ICN and have it sanctioned by

the Commission through STEVE MAGADDINO.

On October 20, 1966, BU T-16 advised that SAM

PIERI continues to gain popularity with "the organization."

Informant stated that PIERI is more congenial and better

able to solve the differences of the group then FRED

RANDACCIO.

"It was the informant's opinion that if any-

thing happened to STEVE MAGADDINO in the near future,

PIERI would stand a good chance of being elevated in the

organization through some of the members.

• ship in the LCN is still vested in STEVE MAGADDINO and

chap in the LON 45 e

on August 25, 1907, BU T-4 advised that leader-

still vested

that FRED RANDACCIO is next in line to assume command in

the

"Magaddino Family" as soon as his current legal dif-

ficulties are resolved.

On May 8, 1967, Buffalo City Police conducted

a raid on a meeting being held at Panaro's Lounge, Buffalo,

and arrested 37 individuals, including 17 LCN members, on

consort auth

charges of Consorting with Known Criminals.

Among those arrested was FRED G. RANDACCIO.

-12-

1916

92-6054-2131

101951.

DocId: 32307917 Page 8

---

