# docid-32290946-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10206-10222

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-605 -

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, TP

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 09/14/1962

' PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

LST, SIGHTING, TP, FL, ASSOC, REL, ACT, TESUR, INCOME

TAX,

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

t.

v9.1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

FBI

Date: 9/14/62

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM

SAC, TAMPA (92-1)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., Aka

AR

WEEKLY AIRTEL SUMMARY

Remyairtel 9/7/62; Miami tel to Tampa 9/10/62.

Subject observed afternoon of Sunday, 9/9/62,

at Palma Ceia Presbyterian Church, Tampa, Fla.,

in attendance

of wedding of

ALPHONSO F. DIECIDUE, son of FRANK DIECIDUE.

Subsequently after the wedding, subject's son-in-

law, AUGUSS PANIELLO, and his wife observed driving 1961

white Cadillac convertible bearing 1962 Florida license

IW15884, to Tampa Terrace Hotel, where DIECIDUE wedding

reception held.

PANIELLO fOllowed by SANTO TRAFFICANTE

and he was accompanied by a white

ale, 5 to 50 Oro 9-10", 175 pounds, with white hatr

They

thereafter entered the Tampa Terrace Hotel. Subject,

his unknown companion, wife, and immediate family left the

reception at approximately 10:15 PM.

Photographic surveillance was conducted and photo-

graphs of general persons in attendance obtained and for-

warded to FBI Laboratory, Photographic Section.

DOMINICK LA ROCA, PCI (PROTECT) advised 9/10/62

Bureau

2 - Miami (92-88)

1.=

Tampa

SeL: ah

(6)

REC- 6

93=2781

- 605

10 SEP 1'Y 190

Approved:

Sent

_ M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

that a group of individuals among whom was SANTO TRAFFICANTE

spent from approximately 10:30 PM 9/9/62 to 1:30 AM 9/10/62

at the Columbia Restaurant, Tampa, Fla.

AUSA THOMAS J. HANLON,

Tampa, El2.,

advised 9/11/62

that the income tax case involving members of the TRAFFICANTE

family had been temporarily removed from the Court Docket

in the USDC, Tampa, Fla., which had been scheduled for a

non-jury trial on 9/10/62.

HANLON said the case had been

postponed while attorneys for the defendants were negotiating

with the Government and the negotiations were being handled

by the U. S. Department of Justice, Washheston, D.C.

On 9/9/62 JACK DE LA LLANA, Intelligence Unit,

Tampa PD, advised he was advised by the Intelligence Unit

of the Miami PD that subject was accompanied to Tampa from

miami by STEFAN ANTHONY RANDAZZO.

On the night of 9/10/62 subject was observed

behind the steering wheel of the 1961 white Cadillac bearing

1962 Florida license lW-11885, accompanied by the same

unknown white male with white

hair at 9:15 PM in front

of the residence of JAMES C. LONGO, 4214 Riverview, Tampa.

The car was still there at 11:00 PM 9/10/62.

Subject was not observed on 9/11/62; however,

at 6:15 PM on 9/12/62 thee were two vehicles observed at

his residence bearing 1962 Florida license 3W- 62550 and

3W34189. 34-62550, according to records of the MVC,

Tampa,

is registered to the 1962 Oldsmobile coupe purchased 8/17/62

registered in the name of Dr. ROY SAXON, 2916 Beach Drive,

Tampa.

"Jaloy, according to the same records, is registered

to a 1957 Oldsmobile four door to MARIA SCAGLIONE, 2303

Tenth Avenue, Tampa.

On 9/13/62 JACK DE LA LLANA, supra, advised that

at 8:00 PM 9/12/62 he saw SANTO TRAFFICANTE in front of

2505 Bristol Avenue with his son-in-law AUGUST PANIELLO

and SANTO hollered to him.

He said he noted JIMMY LONGO

and JIMMY BRUNO were inside the residence and that he noted

the white Cadillac was inside the garage at 2505 Bristol

Avenue with the white Chrysler.

DOMINICK LA ROCA, PCI (PROTECT) advised 9/13/62

that SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JANES LONGO, and "CASEY" HERNANDEZ

were in the liquor store annex together at the Columbia

Restaurant.at 5:00 PM 9/13/62.

-2 -

---

