# docid_32324807

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90032-10046

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-75147-53-143

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

PAGES:

ACES: 02103/1955

SUBJECTS :

GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE INTELLIGENCE FILE

MILTON JAFFE

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

SURVEY

?

v9.1

NW 45820

DocId: 32324807 Page 1'

21

---

## Page 2

WFO 94-65

shop at oth and Pennsylvania and taken over a poolroom nearby

and much of their gambling activity is conducted fren these

locations. NESLINE is considered one of the top dice table

operators in the Washington area.

EXCELL GRIME, 2005 Ninth Street, N. W. - This

individual vas questioned on several occasions in February

1954 by Bureau agents in connection with the JOHN SAMURL

JOHNSON murder case.

At that time he admitted he was en

gaged in gambling activities but claimed to bave curtailed

his operations.

LOUIS H. SINGLEtON, PC1 of this office.

on be-

ing contacted at borton Reformatory, claimed that GRIER, untaj

the recent past,

had made his living by operating crap games

and writing a few numbera.

SINGLETON Claimed GRIER was backed

by JAMES MCEDDY and that MeEDDY was probably one of the more

influential backers in the District.

MeEDDY, according to all

other informants, has joined the SIMPKINS' syndicate.

WALTER LOUIS DOVE - DOVE has been mentioned in

every GIIF report since the inception of this program.

November 1954 the Pittsburgh Office furnished information ob-

tained from PO 509-0 to the effect that the day before the

last 1954 World Series game in Cleveland MILTON JAFFEE of

Pittsburgh and LOU DOVE, a friend of KINGIE

SCHWARTZ of

Washington, were in cleveland.

The entire group attended a

party at LOU RODEY®s (phonetic) farm which he described as a

most lavish layout.

Infornant claimed that almost every

ganber and hoodlum in the country were present at this party..

CHARGES LINDSEY, 1792 Swann Street, W. W. -

has furnished information to the effect

that LINDseY has

been operating an after hours club at the

above address for a considerable length of time.

The 1n-

formant claims to know LINDSEY very well and to have been

at his place on numerous occasions. It has been stated that

JOE LOUIS and other well-known colored individuals have

visited at this establishment and that both white and colored

girls are known to participate in the activities there.

formant claimed that LINDSEY obtained many of his girls from

New York Clty and the place was operated strietly as a private

club. LINDSEY would let the girls live at his house and he

would not accept any of the money these giris made it they

engaged in prostitutional activities but would take room rent

28

NW 45820 DocId:32324807 Page 2

OTHER 4

...

---

