# docid-32326275

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90044-10124

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

122-3019-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO:

LA

TITLE :

DATE: 01/18/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

FRANK MATULA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RADIOGRAM

v9.1

DocId: 32326275

3

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1/18/62

CODE

RADIOGRAM

URGENT (HOLD FOR NEXT RADIO CONTACT)

TO SAC, LOS ANGELES (128-216)

TROM DIRECTOR, TBR(143-3019) - 1

MIKE HARABEDIAN; FRANK MATULA, JR.; ET AL.; LURA DASH IN. RIURAD

JANUARY SEVENTEEN LAST. REDISCUSS WITH AUSA HIS REQUEST POR OPEN

CONTACT WITH MATULA TO GAIN ACCESS TO RECORDS OF TEAMSTERS LOCAL.

POINT OUT SUCH CONTACT WOULD REVEAL GOVERNIENT INTEREST IN THESE

RECORDS AND IF MATULA REFUSES THERE WOULD BE STRONG POSSIBILITY

RECORDS COULD BE MANIPULATED. SUBSEQUENT ACCESS TO SUCH RECORDS

BY SUBPOENA COULD PROVE INCITECTIVE. ASCERTAIN IF AUSA MAY

DESIRE TO ISSUE SUBFOENA FOR RECORDS IN FIRST INSTANCE ON BASES

OF AVAILABLE INFORMATION. IN EVENT AUSA STILL DESIRES ATTENT

TO OBTAIN RECORDS BY OPEN CONTACT WITH MATULA, DISCUSS FRASIBILITY

OF YOUR OFFICE FIRST CONDUCTING PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION AMONG

DISPOSAL OPERATORS AND OTHER SOURCES TO OBTAIN MORE CONCRETE

INFORMATION TO BE UTILIZED IN REVIEW OF UNION RECORDS. SURAD

RESULTS OF YOUR DISCUSSION WITH AUSA AND RECOMVENDATIONS YOUR

OFFICE.

DJG reem

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone.

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

NOTE: Radio contacts with Los Angeles at 1:00 and

5:00 P.M.

Investigation in this case was based on

information obtained from John Filipoff,

VIA RADIOGRAM

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE TWO

JAN 18 1962

i.":

JÂN 65

DocId: 32326275

18621

Page 2

---

## Page 3

RADIOGRAM TO SAC, LA

RE:

MIKE HARABEDIAN; FRANK MATULA, JR; ET AL.

122-3019

NOTE: (CONTINUED FROM PAGE ONE)

former official of Teamsters Local 208, Los Angeles, that

Matula and John Dorbish, officials of Local 396, were

making collections from

various employers and not reporting

proceeds to local.

Harabedian, one of the employers involved,

allegedly does not have a contract with the local. Filipoff

alleged that records of the local would not show receipt

of payments from the

various

employers.

gee.

Pisto

-l 8195 2e

- 2 -

DocId: 32326275

Page

---

