# docid-33060055

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/11/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

• 124-10299-10041

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

NSA

FROM: _ NSA

TO :

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE: 12/17/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

TIRVING DAVIDSON

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

• RESTRICTIONS: IB

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS :

V9.1

NN 56897

DocId: 33060055

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Date :

Page

09/23/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10299-10041

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

: NSA

TO

TITLE

I RESTRICTED 1

DATE

12/17/63

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS

: I IRVING DAVIDSON

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

09/23/98

OPENING CRITERIA

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS

Silas

HH

56897

DooId:33060055

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Ib per NSPHaitian

OTOP SECRET DINAR

****NO FOREIGN DISSEM****

XRAY HANDLIN; REQUIRED

WS 3160

HAITE TO REQUEST RECALL OF DOS, EMBASSY OFFICIALS

'(TS)

3/0/x/T01-64((A))

IS 03 Jan 21272 P

Dist: HCF

11 Dec 63

..com

Please make contact with Mr. IRVING DAVIDSON ((3)) °

Washington representative, address Suite 306, City Building,

1612 K Street N.W., Washington 6; D.C., District 7-3400,

and give him in the name of the Haitian Covernment the

following highly confidential message:

"The Haitian Governmen. has had to request of Charge

d'Affaires CURTIS the recall of three United States Embassy

officials, JOHN W. WARREN, Military Arzaches, STANLEY D. MOSS

Cultural Atraches and JORN HASEC ((C)), Policical Counsellor.

The Stace Department replied Shat the new Ambassador has been

instructed to disouss this question after he presents his

credentials

but thas these sfficial: will nos be recallad

unless they

are declared personae ron graca: and that the State

Department will made reprirals.

Please explain to you know who the necessity of making

a cleaning-out of the Embassy so thac Haitian United States

relations may be resured on a friendly and sordial basis.

The three officials have figured in the arousing of a

frankly hostile feeling toward the Haisian Government.

Military Astache WARREN has talked with high-ranking officers

of the Haitian Army in an effort to corrupt them and hatch

a plot against this Covernment.

JOMN HASEC, a former member

of the Foreign Legion who came here directly from Viet Nam,

has no

a coe Enbassy. He is drink moraine

Haitian

lure INDEXED

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS & PACE (S)

3/0/x

01÷04

NOT RECORDED

TOP SECRET DINARIAN 23 1954.

5668540

FBI

NW 56897 DocId:33060055 • Page 3

---

## Page 4

******

IBper

NST

TOP SECRET DINAR

****NO FOREIGN DISSEM*****

Haitian

3/0/X/T01-64 ((A))

noon and night. We suspect that he has some speciai assignment.

He has talked about it in the course of conversations at the

Hotel El Rancho. Cultural Attache MOSS Is a declared enemy of

the Haitian Government. The latest number of the magazine.

"Actualites", edited by the U.S. Embassy Cultural Service in

memory of KENNEDY is an illustration of his spirit of

hostility. At his clear choice only intellectuals who are

enemies of this Government collaborated on this number. It

contained cables of condolence from many chiefs of state, but

not that of President DUVALIER. There was no mention of the

manifestations of numerous organizations in memory of KENNEDY,

as, for example, the

three days of mourning, the funeral

service, etc.

We are requesting the deparsure also of NORMAN WARNER

because of the categorical position of opposition to this

Government which he look during the events of April and May.

Ambassador T'IMMONS has produced a bad impression. He

seems In be the man least firsed to work for a Haitian-United

States rapprochement on a durable basis. We believe it would

be advisable that he be recalled even before he presents his

credentials and chat a polinical perschage of blended spirit

who is capable of understanding be designated.

Report immediately in the result of your demarches."

THEARD is requested to explain to Mr. IRVING the United

States position on recall and reprisals and co keep the Haitian

Government informed constantly.

Please

JEnr: Mr. IPVING. [TS]

((A))

Previously issued as 3/0/HTD/T322-63 (incomplete text).

( (B))

A public relations tan who is an agent for Haiti in

the United States.

( (C))

MS 974

Not identified.

CN

(TSI

11+a

TOP SECRET DINAR

z

TIAL

NSA chart

NN 56897 DooId:33060055 Page 4.

---

## Page 5

Haitian

TAP SECRET DINAR

XRAY HANDLING REQUIRED

J[T5] WS 3160

HAITI TO REQUEST RECALL OF U.S. EMBASSY OFFICIALS

(TS)

3/0/x/T01-64((A))

IS 03 Jan 2127Z

P

Dist: • HCF

17 Dec

63

Flease make contact with Me. IRVING DAVIDSON ((B)) •

Washington representative, address Suite 306, City Buildings

1612 K. Street N.W., Washington 6, D.C., District 7-3400,

and give him in the name of the Haitian Government: the

folloring highly confidential message:

"The Hairlan Covernment has had to request of Charge

d'Affaires CURTIS the, recall of three United States Embassy

offichale, JOHN WO WARREN, Military Attache,

STANLEY DO

MOSS

Cultural Actache, and JOHN MASEC ((C)), Political Counsellor.

The State Department reptied Phat

the new Ambassador has been

instructed to discusa this question after he presents his

credentials, buc that these officials will not be recalled

5668-5401

JFK

FBI

CLASS SEA

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

unless they are declared personae non grate, and

that the State

Departnent wifT make reprisals.

*Masey

Please explain to you know who the necessity of making

a cleaning-out of the Embassy so that Haitian United States

relations may be resured on a friendly and cordial basis.

The three officials have figured in the arousing of a

Frankly hostile feeling toward the kaisian coverment.

Milicary Actache

WARKEN has talked with high-tarking officers

of the Haitian Army in an effort to corrupt them and hatch

a plot against this Covernment

JOHN HASEC, a former member

of the

Foreign Legion who came here directly from Viet Nam,

has no

The Embassy, He 1e drak iosing

duete INDFYEn

Hairlan

(S)

3/0/x/61-339-217-353653

THIS DOCUMENZ CONTAINS 2 PACE (S)

NOT RECORDED

TOP SECRET DINARAN 23 1964

NN 56897 DooId:33060055 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TOP SECRET DINAR

****NO FOREIGN DISSEM******3%

Haitian

3/0/X/TO1 64((A))

noon and night, We suspect that he has some special assignment.

He has talked about it in the course of conversations at the

Hotel El Rancho. Cultural Attache MOSS is a declared enemy of

the Haitian Government. The latest number of the magazine

"Actualices", edited by the U.S. Embassy Cultural Service In

menory of KENNEDY is an illuscration of his spirit of

hostility. At his clear choice only intellectuals who are

enemies of this Goveroment collaborated on this number.

Ic

contained cables of condolence fson many chiefs of state, but

not shat of President DUVALIER.

There was no mention of the

manifestations of numerous organizations in memory of KENNEDY:

as, for example, the three days of mouring, the funeral

service, etc.

We are requesting the departuce also of NORMAN WARNER

because of the categorical position of opposition to this

Government which he took during the events of April and May.

Ambassador TIMMONS has produced a bad inpression.

He

seems to be the man least Fitted to work Lot a Hairian-United

States xapprochement on a durable basis. We believe It would

be advisable that he be recalled eves before he presents his

credentials and that a political personage of blended spirit

who is capable of understanding

be designated,

Report inmediately on the result of your demarches."

THEARD Is requested to explain to Mr. IRVING the United

States position on recall and reprisals and to keep the Haitian

Covernment informed constantly.

Please

LEOT IT. IRVING, (TS]

((A)) Previously issued as 3/0/ETD/T322-63 (Incomplete text) •

( (B) )

A public relations man who is an agent for Hsiti in

the United States.

((0))

Not identified

MS. 931

-2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

HH 56897 DocId:33060055 Page 6

---

