JFK Assassination System Date: 5/28/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10286-10022

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2918-142, 143

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: SAC,BT .
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/11/1963
PAGES: 15

SUBJECTS :
SMO, BOND, BENCH WARRANT, TRIAL, TAX CHARGES, GM,
ASSOC AND REL, MED/PERS HIST, CRIMINAL ACT, P/P, B/F
INT, TRA :

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 09/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC RPT

v9 10
DocId:32304392 Page 1


— Gm: 29 aatannceEhs! aca Se eat

PG 92-228

LEAD
PITTSBURGH
AT PITTSBURGH, PA. (ALLEGHENY COUNTY)

Will follow and report activities of subject
and his associates in accordance with Bureau instructions.

ADMINISTRATIVE

During the period of this report, close liaison 7
has been maintained with special agents of the Intelligence aia
Division, IRS, Pittsburgh, Pa., who are conducting an i
investigation concerning the activities of SAMUEL MANNARINO. i

This report has been slightly delayed due to the »
pre-occupation of the preparing “Spécial Agent in other i
important investigative matters, such as case “WILLIAM AL ai
GERHART, aka; ET AL. AR - - GAMBLING

INFORMANTS

T symbols utilized in this report will be the \)
same, where applicable, as those used in reports back :
to and including that of 7/61:

PG T-2 is PG 612-C.

PG T-3 is PG 615-C.

PG T-4 is PCI ANTHONY JOHN WISE, who furnéshed i
information to SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III.

PG T-35 is PCI GENE HOWARD MC CUTCHEON, JR.,
who furnished information to SA DONALD G. FISCHER.

Lee,

PG T-51 is COP DAN JOSEPH, New Kensington, Pa.,
Police Department (protect per request), who furnished
information to SA FORSYTH.

_

-B*-
COVER PAGE

DocId:32304392 Page 2
