# docid-32313977

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10334-10112

RECORD SERIES: NK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-386-SUB 3-118

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NK

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/07/1963

4

GEORGE LEWIS, ELSURS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LOG, ADMIN PAGE

DÖdId: 32313977

Page

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rov. 12-13-58)

FBI

Date: 11/7/63

Transmit the following in

CODE

(Type in plain-text or code)

Via

RADIOGRAM

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2840)

FROM:

SAC, NEWARK (92-386)

HERMAN ORMAN, AKA, AR,

NE TWO THREE SIX ONE DASH C ASTERISK ADVISED SUBJECT WAS

VISITED BY ONE GEORGE LEWIS FAREN PHONETIC END PAREN, WHOSE

AS THOUGH HE WERE

SPEECH SOUNDED/NEGRO. INFORMANT STATED LEWIS ASKED SUBJECT'S

HELP IN RECOVERING SOME MONEY, THE DETAILS OF WHICH WERE NOT

CLEAR, INFORMANT STATED AFTER LEWIS LEFI, SUBJECT TELEPHONICALLY

COYTACTED BEN ANDERSON, SERGEANI, ATLANTIC CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT,

AND TOLD HIM HE HAD BEEN VISITED BY LEWIS IN CONNECTION WITH

QUOTE THAT SHARP THING END QUOTE. ORMAN THEN TOLD ANDERSON

QUOTE YOU PUT SOME HEAT ON AND THEN TELL THOSE FELLOWS WHAT

TO DO, THAT FELLOW MILL GO TO TRENTON IF HE DOESN'T GET HIS

MONEY BACK END QUOTE.

NEWARK WILL ENDEAVOR TO DETERMINE IDENTITY OF GEORGE LEWIS

AND DETAILS OF MATTER BE DISCUSSED WITH ORMAN.

1-92-386A

1-137-4291

RIT :)gs.

(3)

in 2130

sirs:

Approved:

luth

Special Agent in Charge

92-3868u23-118

92-386-5t6t

1825P

_ M

77369..

DocId: 32313977 Page 2

---

## Page 3

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

xXXXxXXX

XXXXXXXX

xXxxxxXX

XXXXXXXX

The original of the attached document cannot

be located

at this time.

When located it will be

furnished to NARA.

NK92-3865433-118

ELSUR LOGS

XXXXXXXX

xXXXXxXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

xXXXXXXX

DocId: 32313977

Page

3

---

## Page 4

++0-29792-28-598

Time

84?

10'5

VK.2361.c*

IC

Initial

OG

Activity Recorded

deel 367

Belfant entered of fic.

Orman

is joined by Helfant

for tie discasion of election resulta -

Int partient

Cut

17

Cloud victor Walter - in to so Orma.

Want, haup in colliting delt. Orma

Sit. Anderion

One mot Controll sffort to

Call someone on shore- doss't get his party.

citiz O. Callo Ben Arlerson set detector Ba.

I asks for privet It then i da

I will call Ben right away.

Calls of refer. to Shap situation.

cut 2.2

. Page

Tice Be to pat kiat on

comin

Employee's Name

Date Stamp

• Log..

Day /ud!

DocId: 32313977 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-297 (1-28-57)

13 :

Time

1059

11°3

114°

115°

Log....

Day..

N1- 3.361.C*

IC

Initial

OG

Activity Recorded

Rel 307

Came made phone weall

a reall & cinde

Call to Phillip Lipster N4C

TR 5--- not completed

Orman ahispers instruction to Helfant

Arctate lette to Pillis Tipsti

property lien, sill to city of

May I.

in .

property - pic for terma.

How Ind Dan) is - fusiness tall.

nit pertined

Employee's Name

Date Stamp

... Page

Date "/6/6.3

DocId: 32313977 Page 5

---

