# docid-32306389

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/19/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10290-10029

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2028

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, SD

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/09/1967

'PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MAFIA, MEMBERS A/O ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306389

Page 1

23

---

## Page 2

F0-06 (RON 105-22-04)

FBI

Date:

6/9/67

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRIEL

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR NAIL - REGISTERED

(Priorily)

1O:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

FROM:

SAC, SAN DIEGO (92-229) (P)

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

(00: New York)

Re San Diego airtel to Bureau dated 5/4/67 •

SD 1064-C-TE was re-contacted 5/25/67 and again

on 6/6/67 by Special Agents EDWARD MARI and JOHN D. ARMSTRONG

and furnished the following information on members of the

La Cosa Nostra (LCN):

1. CHICAGO LON FAMILY

Stated SAM GIANCANA, to his knowledge, is residing

indefinitely in Mexico. Stated he did not know his exact

S

Bureau (AM-REGISTERED)

2 New York (92-2300) (AM-REGISTERED)

2 - Detrolt (92-914) (AM-REGISTERED)

2

- San Francisco (92-593) (AM-REGISTERED)

- Chicago (92-1173) (AM-REGISTERED)

= Cae vegas (92-743) (AM-REGSTERD)

- St. Louis (AM-REGISTERED)

- 131108 92-210

CAM-REGISTERE

- Miami (92-053) AM-REGISTE

2

- MiLwaukee (AM-REGISTERED)

92 - 6054

2028

- kansas city Inio

AM-HEGLOLERAD)

- New Orleans (Info)

(AM-REGISTERED)

Phoenix (Info) (AM-REGISTERED)

MarVes a seniolace 9 + 03-2032 12- 131-10801

3 JUN 12.1967

JDA: CJI

(31)

Approved:

6 2JU Special

Sent

ent in Charge

DocId: 32306389

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SD 92-229

II. DETROIT ICN FAMILY

In regard to background on formation of the Detroit

Family, talled in general terms about the bootlegging, gang

fighting between themselves, until finally the Detroit Family

as it is today emerged as a result of an alliance and that to

ais knowledge the Detroit Family is run by JOB aPRILLe, dOHN

PRIZIOLA, and BLACK BILL TOCCO, with ZERILLI making all the

final decisions.

Stated PETE LICAVOLI of Tueson is still

active' In Detroit Family affairs and is consulted.

Stated Detroit attorney BILL BUFFALINO, to his

knowledge, is not an ICN member. Believed he was married

to FRANK MELI's daughter - a niece of ICN member, ANGELO

MEL.

Informant stated BUFFALINO was hand picked by the

Detroit Family to work with JIMMY HOFFA and that BUFFALINO is

a legal and business consultant with the Detroit Family

leadership, especially in regard to Teamster loans.

In regard to PAPA JOHN PRIZIOLA, Informant stated

he is back in Detroit and is in fairly good shape after his

recent heart trouble while in San Diego. Belleves from talking

to PRIZIOLA's sons-in-law, JOE AND FRANK MATRANGA In San Diego,

there have been some subpoenas issued in Detroit which have

been brought to PRIZIOLA's attention. Informant did not know

the nature of the subpoenas, but believes they have been served

on some of the LCN members in that area.

Belleves the Detroit Family to date has kept all of

the points in the New Frontler Hotel in Las Vegas, which has

cost the Detroit Family around five million dollars and that

at the present time they are attempting to raise an additional

$400,000.

III. TAMPA AND MIAMI ION FAMILIES

Per request of Tampa's letter to San Diego 5/25/67

entitled FRANK DIECIDUE - AR, informant advised that he is an

ICN member who was made about 1939,

probably by STEVE ITALIANO

(now deceased). Believes that FRANK DIECIDUE has a brother,

TONY DIECIDUE, and believed he was also a member. Recalled

-3-

92-6291

DocId: 32306389

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SD 92-229

VII. NEW YORK

Stated he has not heard of any change in the physical

condition of Boss TOM LUCHESE.

In regard to JOE BONNANO, informant claimed his son

had arranged for the kidnapping and the kidnapping was a "phony"

wich only a Lew people knew about midnappinet

Informant denied having

any Intimate knowledge of BONNANO's

Informant

stated' he has received no official word through ICN circles

that BONNANO has been received back into the IN in good

standing.

Informant talked in a way to indicate a distinct

relationship between the Los Angeles ICN Family and the Family

headed by TOM LUCHESE in New York. Described how several

years ago he and JACK I. DRAGNA, deceased, LOS Angeles LeN

Boss, had decided with some of the other "Capos" that they

did not want anything to do with narcotics. Stated DRAGNA

was opposed to narcotics and his main argument was that the

ION hoodlums had children of their own who might become

Involved as addicts.

DRAGNA and Informant apparently were

upset over the use of the baja calitornia, vexico, border oy

ION narcotic activity. He described now he and briGi

personally went back to New York to present their ideas to

LUCHESE for LUCHESE to present to the Commission.

The way the

informant phrased his words indicated a special relationship

with the LUCHESE family.

The Informant reminisced about past ICN activities

in the New York area.

Described how DUICH SCHULTZ was going

to kill THOMAS DEWEY years ago when DEwEY was an assistant

District Attorney and that LUCKY LUCIANO stopped scHule and

DEWEY knew about it. Informant indicated SCHULTZ was killed

over this and that DEWEY knew he owed his life to LUCIANO and

that this was the main reason LUCIANO was freed and deported

When DEWEY became Covernor.

In regard to the informant's statement of a past

U. S. Senator from New York being an ICN member, he stated

that on thinking it over, he might have been wrong and it

might have been a U. S. Congressman from New York rather than

a Senator. He claimed he has forgotten his name, but that

when he next meets with FRATIANNO, he will bring

up the

subject to get the name identified. In any event he indicated

DocId: 32306389

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SD 92-229

that the New York representative was a very old man and has

long been out of polities.

VIII. SAN FRANCISCO

Stated he is in frequent contact with JIMMY PRATIANNO

of Sacramento. FRATIANNO has rented his home In Las Vegas for

$130 with the agreement that he can use a bedroom there whenever

he is in Las Vegas.

States FRATIANNO still has ten or eleven

trucks working on whatever jobs he ean pick up. That LA PORTE's

truces nave been repossessed and chey are accempting to sell

them for $7,500 each.

States FRATIANNO incurred a $10,000 lawyer's

fee with attorney JAMES CANTILLION of Los Angeles who represented

him at El Centro, California. He has paid several thousand to

CANTILLION at this time.

States FRATIANNO was paying his own

attorney fees and was not subsidized by the ICN.

Informant indicated a very close relationship with

FRATIANNO and stated that in about 1960 just after FRATIANNO

was released from Folsom, the Los Angeles ICN Family discussed

putting out a contract on FRATIANNO, and it was only after

the informant's strong objections the contract was not issued.

IX. LOS ANGELES FAMILY

Informant stated he has had three meetings with his

Capo, JOE ADAMO, in San Diego, attempting to arrange a meeting

with Los Angeles LCN Boss, FRANK DESIMONE, but that to date

DESIMONE has avoided the meeting. He still intends to "cut

into" NICK SIMPONIS' gambling operations on the outskirts of

Palm Springs, but that he cannot do it without first clearing

with his boss. Does not expect to get clearance from DESIMONE

and will use this as another example to show DESIMONE's lack

of leadership.

Stated that he has recently been advised that the

Los Angeles CN leadership is considering issuing a contract

calling for the death of someone.

The victim apparently lives

in the Los Angeles area. Two men have already been designated

as the ones who will do the killing and upon successful

completion of the job, they apparently will be considered for

ICN membership. The meeting has been under consideration for

three or four months. Informant's

picked to supervise the two men conducting the hit in order

-7-

DocId: 32306389

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SD 92-229

to insure it is done successfully.

Informant indicated that if the decision is made to

issue the contract and it involves him, he will demand a

sit down meeting with DESIMONE and Underboss NICK LICATA and

possibly Capo JOE DIPPOLITO to get the full details.

could be worked out, he would very much be interested in having

the hit men caught in the act before the killing and then usc

them against DESIMONE and LICATA in orden to depose them from

their ICN positions of leadership. He stated that all developments

in this regard will be immediately furnished to the interviewing

agents.

Informant also indicated an intention of meeting

with JOHN ROSELLI sometime during the end of the week around

June 9-10, 1967, in Los Angeles.

Informant admits recent contacts with Cleveland

hoodlum FRANK VELOTTA.

VELOITA drove to San Diego Crom

Los Angeles by himself on June 5, 1967, to consult with the

informant about the extradition charge he faces in Florida.

Stated VELOTTA is one of the best burglars operating.

Referred

to him as a "bug man" who can turn off ADI alarm systems.

States he is now living in North Hollywood, California, and

that he claims to own a ten unit apartment house in North Hollywood

in which he has a $23,000 equity.

VELOITA claims he is trying

to sell his apartment house now and that if he can raise the

money, ne would still like Informant to go to Florida and attemot

to arrange through LeN boSs DANIO TRADFICANIE to have the I'lonida

charge dropped.

Informant stated he is agreeable to this trip only

IF VELOTTA can come up with his plane fare and a little expense

money so that he will not arouse anyone's suspicions as they

all know he is broke.

Informant again spoke of HAPPY MELIZER In Los Angeles

being successfully engaged in shylocking and bookmaking.

-0-

DocId: 32306389

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SD 92-229

. LAS VEGAS

Informant agreed to tell interviewing agents his

present financial plans after expressing deep coneern about

not letting anyone

"foul him up"

as he is very anxious to make

a financial comeback.

stated that he is now working on a

"deal" with ABE BENJAMIN of Las Vegas.

•BENJAMIN has located

some young Italian who was working in Las Vegas as a shill,

but who is apparently some kind of a homemade engineering

Senius:

• He is an Inventor and has put together a gambling

machine which they hope to manufacture and place in Nevada

casinos. Apparently the machine utilizes old horse racing

movies.

The horse racing movies are projected on a screen.

The players Insert their coin, pick the horse they think

will win, and then the machine Is started and the one who

has picked the winning horse will be paid off like a winner

at a jackpot machine.

They have one machine manufactured

now and it cost approximately $20,000.

-ABE BENJAMIN has

Invested $14,000 to date and someone referred to by the

Intormant as DAN WILSON of Los Angeles has invested $18,000.

WILSON, believed to be an Italian with another true name),

apparently is the west coast representative for some well

known garbage disposal manufacturer in St. Louis. Informant

Indicated he was well known in the garbage disposal manufacturing

1ine.

Informant stated that he as well as FRATIANNO are also

among the investors although neither have put up any cash,

but have apparently promised to arrange for necessary financing

if the machine is successful. The machine will be manufactured

in Chicago and informant indicated the Chicago ICN Family

would provide the financing.

(IC the Las Vegas Division can discreetly verify

the above without compromising the identity of the informant

In any way or incurring his displeasure for hurting him financially

oy inquiry, It is requested that any pertinent information along

these lines be furnished to the San Diego Office.)

-9-

DocId: 32306389

Page 7

---

