(

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

4/23/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10221-10183

HQ

92-4225-8

Document Information

FBI
DIRECTOR, FBI
SAC, PH

07/06/1959
1

JFC, RENNARD, PAUL, EMP, WIT, INSTR, ASSOC, TRA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

05/11/1998

INDEFINITE,

v9.1

Docld:32340790 Page 1


& i ae [ 7
2/6/59
PLAIN TEXT ae
AIR TEL
: : co
TO: _ SAC, Philadelphia a
. FROM: Director, FBI
Ny Manet
SUBJECT: U.S. VS: BONA! 3. et al,
- SOUTHERN .DISTRICT OF NEW YORK
' CRIMINAL 159=35 at
\ . © TOP HOODLUM. PROGRAM
:
t Re PH airtel 6/26/59.
: Re airtel indicates Paul Rennard is a CI currently
' furnishing information and that he was previously instructed 2
: by employer to clear with him before furnishing information 4
H to law enforcement. It is noted also that Rennard has’ in [&
i past expressed concern that he would be in danger of losing ay

H his job in event his identity as source became known.

obteined the name of Rennard it is apparent that the
' Department is giving consideration to using him as a witness.
You.should therefore determine if conditions have changed
which would permit Rennard to consent to the dissemination
to the Department the contents of the letterhead memo dated
i 6/25/59 reflecting the interview of January 3, 1958. f

' : While it is not known how or where the Department -
!
\

}

Cf
BR282 aut 7 1959

AAS : : ,
taS/sie a)

i 4 Note: Rennard was pilot of private plane of Sullivan

Trail Coal Co. owned by Louis. Pagnotti. Plane was
frequently used by some of those attending meet on 11/14/57.
On day in question Rennard flew James Tedesco and William

Medico to Bridgeport, Conn. -° aan! 7
MAILED 25.
©. Suva — \° ore ; JUL 6.~'1959
a) wa noou Aves owe COMM-FBI

“6S JUL A 1989 oo oe

DocId:32340790 Page 2
