# docid-32301553

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10278-10388

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-69

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/29/1963

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, MEMBERS, ASSOC, BOAT, FINANCES, RAID, MIL ACT,

AIRPLANE, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

DocId: 32301553

Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

1 - Wannal!

1 - Nasca

January 3, 1964

(JFK

MI. J. Walter Yeagley

Assistant Attorney General

Director, FBI

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION

REVOLUCIONARIO (MIRR)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Reference is made to our previous communications in

the captioned matter which dealt with the plans of the MIRi

Sto bomb Cuba and to Information furnished on January 2, 1964,

LASsrito

indicating that the Bureau of Custous in Miami, Florida, had

if chwarting the plans of the MIRR.

Oseized two boats and the five Cubans who were aboard, thus

11277

INFORMATION

During the night of December 28-29, 1963, Orlando Bosch

Avila, head of the MIRR; William Johnson, an American; and the

Ofive Cubans mentloned above were interviewed by representatives

if our Miami Office.

A!

Bosch orally admitted full responsibility for the

operation. He stated that he had financed it by soliciting

voluntary contributions fron Cubans and that he had borrowed

the small boat from Armando Martinez, a friend, whom he

claimed knew nothing about the raid. Bosch selected the

MAiLED personnel scheduled to participate in the raid but denied

JAN -3

at Captain Francisco Hernandez Fernandez and the "Ebb Tide

Involved. Bosch claimed that the bombs were to be delivered

coMM.FBby the small boat to a place which he declined to identify;

that they would be picked up by an airplane;' and that they

would be dropped on the oil tanks at Nuevitas, Cuba. He

claimed that the airplane was owned by a Cuban pilot and

that it was not based in the United States: He refusedito

Tolson,

Identify theipilot and dented that the pilot was Evello Alpizar

Belmnat

Perez.

Mohr t

He stated that the 'failure of this raid was a severe

Casper -

Callahan

blow and that it had cost him about $5,000.

Bosch declined to

Conrad

De Loach

Refurnish a signed statement.

Evans -

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan -

97-g47469

Tovel

Trotter

.:- Miani (105-2855)

Tele. Room'

Holmes

SEE NOTE PAGE 3

jandy .

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT L

DocId: 32301553

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Mr. J. Walter Yeagley

Assistant Attorney General

NOTE :

Our informant in this matter was Evelio Alpizar Perez

who was among those picked up by Customs. Alpizar was most cooperative

with our Miami Office and it was on basis of his information that

raid was thwarted.

There is no need to advise the Department that

Alpizar was our informant at this time. If the Department indicates

no ner

willingness to prosecute we can consider advising Department of

.

- 3 =

DocId: 32301553

Page

3

---

