FD-36 Ae $-22-64) o™

ie ww
qr ow FBI

Date: 8/24/64

. Rosen.
fir. Sulliv:
Tavel

Transmit the following in Ah
(Type in plaintext or code) ee

Via AIRTEL

(Priority)

10: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054) i
ROM: SAC, WFO (92-733) (aue)P

LA COSA NOSTRA a
AR ~. CONSPIRACY

H !
ReMIairtel 8/12/64. i

SA KENNETH J. HASER determined on 8/18/64, that
a special search by name of records of FBI Identification
Division re JASPER GALLO produced negative results.

On 8/18/64, SA HASER determined through the Office
of Security, Department of State, that there is no record
of GALLO in the current visa files of State (1955 to date).
Noted that Visa Office has records on fewer than 1% of all U.S.
visas issued throughout world by reason of operation of
immigration laws which vest responsibility for issuance of f|
such visas in U. S, Consular Offices:: abroad. In this /
connection, if GALLO were issued U. S. non-immigrant }
visa in Italy at Embassy or Consulate there, record main- fe zy
tained there for four years. If he were issued immigrant
visa at Embassy or one of Consulates, record will be
maintained there 16 months and then destroyed. ff other
investigation re GALLO's entry to U. S. negative, suggest
have Legat, Rome, check for post visa file.

a

Mrs. VERDE CRENSHAW, Passport Office, Department
of State, advised SA HASER 8/21/64, no ted peed record “yx
of GALLO could be found in passport SEES 29 7A 60.53 ha fi

as
gh Bureau
2 - Milwaukee (92-262) te 1318) Oe, 14 SEP 11 1964
1 - WFO

“Bp a fusnensaaeers
KJH: jyh

(6)
AIRTEL

BH SEPT ¢
piled s FY Hyd Sent M Per

Special Agent in Charge

6. wick

Docld:32576037 Page 1
