AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI :
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10221-10270
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 185-789-1702X

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, WMFO
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:

DATE: 10/18/1977
PAGES: 16
SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL Secret : NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW_DATE: 08/17/1998 UPDATE DATE:

STATUS —_ Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
Consultation
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS: INC MEMO, REFERRED TO DOS

DocId: 32340877 Page 1


ra

WFO 185-425 SECRET

Two particular points emerged from the reinterview
of the CIA source: (1) Source reported that a CORU meeting

was held in the Dominic Republic some time between 19 and
21 June, 1976, probabIy in Bonao, and identified the , E
following Cuban exiles as having been insattendance: ® u)

REIN ,XERANK

|

| 5

| jfrennanpez, as the individual CASTRO said had contact
t

--, | résponsibilities between Cuban exiles jin Miami and Cuban: £.
y j exiles in Santiago, Chile. B(%) (4) Chile
Ler = irreeareseral ‘ na

In order to fully comprehend the significance

of the statement by the source that a CORU meeting was held

i in the Dominican Republic between 19 and 21 June, 1976,

! it is necessary to set forth the aggragate of information
available to the 00 regarding the CORU meeting in the
Dominican Republic in June, 1976, inasmuch as upon close

in analysis it becomes apparent that there were in fact, if

A E the source's information is accurate, two meetings in the
\} Dominican Republic by CORU, the latter of which was
/ previously unknown to the Bureau. Oe) lu)
/
. A.

Information Regarding the CoRU Organizational
Meeting in the Dominican Republic in June, 1976, U
from MM 133%-S g :

ee , MM.1337-S advised on June 10, 1976; HRANGASTRO,. :
t GUSRAVOAERSTILLO ‘and QSCARMANGULO. of the Frente de Libéracion
Nacional de Cuba (FLNC), me e Commodore Hotel, Santo -
Domingo, Dominican Republic. FLNC matters were discussed, as well
| as status, health, and Similar trivia of its members. FRANK

BOF

CASTRO presented a plan that he wanted approved by the people
meeting at the hotel. He wanted this plan approved because
he intended to present it to a Congress of Cuban Exile Groups
meeting in Santo Domingo the next couple of days. FRANK
CASTRO's plan was to form a National Directorate, made up of
a delegate from each Cuban exile organization represented, or ay
a delegate!from each organization that would form part of “RIy)

2 SECRET

BV oOwy sy

Docld:32340877 Page 2



mn = ~
ae UO cy oO)

py
L Le &

L

WFO 185-425 | SECRET

SUAREZ ESQUIVEL then spoke of a good friend that all
present people shared. He said that this person was_RAFAEL
TL DE of Miami, who heads a federally funded program tor
Cuban exilés. He said that VILLAVERDE had been very, very
la useful in assisting Cuban people and in the movement of equipment
and materials and on Lats which were helpful to the several
groups represented. Ny i

oa BOSCH then spoke of two countries which are not
friends of FIDEL CASTRO's Cuba. These are Chile and Costa
Rica; however, actions will be taken against them because of
treatment to Cuban exiles by those countries. BOSCH specifically
mentioned that eR, a U.S. fugitive, was returned to
the U.S. by Chil€. Source advised that "everyone" knows that
BOSCH was jailed in Costa Rica during the last time that he was
there, February, 1976. The meeting then ended. OU uy

On May 12, 1977, MM 1337-S advised that in June, 1976,
he had been present at a meeting hee a been held in the
mountains of Santo Domingo, Domi, iblic, in which the
following individuals Here Gresent: USTAVO CAS LLO-ELNC ;

Cc; LOmFLNCY 6 SS a oaee DT

GASPAR JIM. tic:

DIEGQABORGES, a member of FLNC in Pyerto Rico, was not~'
present in thé méetings even though he was used as a driver.
This was the meeting in which CORU was formed. o® XU Xa)

\\ JOSE SUAREZ ESQUIVEL from MNC stated that the political
rR aspect of this group should be separated from the military

} and that the military coordinators would get together

I for a meeting. During this meeting it was discussed that. no

b action should be carried out in the U.S., but JOSE SUAREZ

and JUAN PULIDO were not in favor. SUAREZ stated that MNC was
planning a very important kidnaping that would produce big money.
MNC would use eir name and would make a good money contribution
to CORU. wy tie )

i On the following morning, after this meeting in Santo
Domingo had terminated, MM 1337-S met SUAREZ by coincidence at
the airport. JOSE SUAREZ was coming via Puerto Rico in a

| clandestine fashion. In running conversation between SUAREZ

effect that there was a "son of a bitch'""LETELIER" in Washington
that they would have to do something about. MM 1337-S did not
know anything about "LETELIER," did not give it much ome

6 SECRET

Sh WS NE

guaREZ_ESQUIVEE = INC ; IW BAM ; & L
risade 506; i NDO LOPEZ ESTRADA - Serene 2506. sy
is

and MM 1337-S, SUAREZ had made a statement something to the ft)
\

Docld:32340877 Page 3

|



WFO 185-425 SECRET

and at that time did not make any connection between the
kidnaping planned by the MNC and LETELIER; however, MM 133)
feels that the name mentioned was in fact “LETELIER." BC, GE)

B.| Information Furnished by Venezuelan
Intelligence Services on March 9, 1977 to ()
AUSA EUGENE M. PROPPER

iz ~2-"On March 9, 1977-; Dr. RAFAEL..RIVAS_ VASQUEZ,
Deputy-Direetor;DISIP, advésed that in June, 1976, two
meetings were held in the Dominican Republic which were
attended by leaders of the principal Cuban exile organizations.
They had two meetings, the first one, and the larger of the
two, was a political meeting to agree on a political strategy
for the various exile Cuban groups. The other one, a much
smaller meeting, was strictly operational and was attended

by 6 people. Itsspurpose was to decide on terrorist activity
against Cuba. DISIP léarned from a source that the following
people attended the operational meeting: ORLANDO BOSCH,
GUILLERMO NOVO, LUIS POSADA, an unidentified representative

of the Brigade 2506, FRANK CASTRO and ARMANDO LOPEZ ESTRADA.
PROPPER volunteered that one of his sources identified

ROBERTO CARBALLO, present Head of the Brigade 2506, as its
representative at the meeting. “According to RIVAS, a map

was marked up during the meeting, showing the various
divisions of responsibility. For example, POSADA's group

was assigned all of South America and the Caribbean was a
target of opportunity for all groups. Mr. PROPPER asked

3 who had..been assigned North America. RIVAS said he did not
‘know, but -that he hada copy of the-map.. PROPPER asked for

a copy. of--the-map-and-RIVAS agreed fo furnish it. PROPPER™
explained that he speculated that North America may have

been divided in two by a horizontal line, running across

the U.S. at the level of Washington, D.C. If so, the 4
territory north of the line may have been assigned to the NOVO
brothers, who worked primarily out of New Jersey (although

one of them, IGNACIO, actually lives in Florida); the Brigade
pie 2 BBY been assigned North America south of Washington,

. Subsequent to that meeting, said -RIVAS, POSADA's
group had carried out a number of operattons. These were:
bombing of the Air Panama office in Bogota (carried out by
LUIS GPOSADA, HERNAN RICARDO and OLEG GUETON RODRIGUEZ) ;
bombing of the Cuban office in Panama (RICARDO and GUETON) 8)

7 SECRET
\ SOL WS

Docld:32340877 Page 4


st fen o\
CPs i Ly
Pansa= = J

WFO 185-425 SECRET

bombing of the Guyanan Consulate in Trinidad (RICARDO and
GUETON); bombing of the BWIA facility (which also services
Cubana) in Barbados (RICARDO and FREDDY LUGO); and, finally,
the bombing of the Cubana airliner on October 6 (RICARDO
and LUGO). RIVAS-explained that under Venezuelan law,

there is no way to bring GUETON;t6.trial, so he is free,
"walking the streets." He also said“that during the meeting
in Trinidad to decide what to do with HERNAN RICARDO and
FREDDY LUGO, none of the other countries, including Cuba,
wanted to try the two. In effect,-he said, Venezuela got
stuck with them. He demurred when asked* when the trial of
the four accused of the Cubana bombing would.take_place,
saying he was only in charge of the investigation ‘and was |
not following the.trial.aspects—of iccnienan§ 4 S) ! : ee {

Dr. RIVAS-‘Said—that ORLANDO BOSCH .fo1d-DISIP that . . iy i

-he was told of the bombing of the Cubana airliner before : }
the fact (BOSCH arrived in Caracas in September, 1976, for

some fund raising activities), but that he neither planned

,gor participated in the bombing in any way. RIVAS asserted
“tat DISIP beIteves BOSCH was more involved in the Cubana
bombing than he will admit, but that he-was probably, not
responsible for it. -RIVAS.does: not believe BOSCH isydumb

enough to come to Venezuela to raise money a also com-

plicate things for himself by the bombing. ( S)

Dr. RIVAS said BOSCH told-him that7’he believes
the NOVO brothers were responsible for the Cubana bombing.
BOSCH also told*RIVAS that the Cuban Exile umbrella organization,
i CORU, was responsible for the machinegunning in Rome of
Chilean Christian Democratic leader BERNARDO LEIGHTON.
‘RIVAS-said that~DISIP-believes that CORU was also responsible
for the attempt on the Guban Consul's life in Merida, as well
as the kidnaping (in conjunction with a right wing Argentine -
group called Trinchera) wey embassy clerical em-

1G

ployees in Buenos Aires

C. Information Concerning CORU Meeting in the
Dominican Republic in June, 1976, From May 13,
1977 Edition of New Times Magazine Article
Entitled, "I Am Going to Declare War" By
BLAKE FLEETWOOD.

FLEETWOOD's article is a result of a four-hour
interview of ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, who was at the time of the
interview incarcerated in Caracas, Venezuela, for his role
in the October, 1976, bombing by anti-CASTRO exiles of a
Cubana airliner plane, which cost the lives of some 73

7 people. The interview contained the following information U

\ 8 i SECRET

Docld:32340877 Page 5



WFO 185-425 SECRET

regarding the June, 1976, mget\ng in the Dominican Republic
by anti-CASTRO Cuban exiles Py

BOSCH's plotting culminated in a secret meeting of
the top terrorist leaders of the hemisphere in the Dominican
Republic. "The story of CORU (Coordination of the United
Revolutionary Organizations) is true," he told me. "There
was a meeting in the Bonao mountains of 20 men representing
all different (Cuban exile) activist organizations. It was a
meeting of all the military and political directors with
revolutionary implications. It was a great meeting.
Everything was planned there." a)

The top men from Alpha 66 (New Jersey), Abdalah
(a New York-based youth group),. the 2506 Brigade (veterans
of the Bay 6f Pigs invasion), FLNC, F14 (New York City)
and Accion Cubana (a group BOSCH headed) met for two days
in the Bonao mountains in early June, 1976. They decided
to band together under an umbrella organization, CORI with
BOSCH as the only identified spokesman and Tends. (l.)

"At last we had all the Cuban revolutionary
fighters and leaders together after 17 years. We decided
to upscale the action after that. We wanted to beat the
guy (CASTRO) or at least make his life impossible. I told
them that we couldn't just keep bombing an embassy here and
a police station there. We had to start taking more serious
actions-~hijacking." (According to a Cuban exile newspaper,
one of the resolutions that came out of that meeting. was a vow
"to begin attacking CASTRO's planes in the air.") Ww

"I accepted the leadership of CORU because I wanted
to set everything up on an organized basis. We were tired
of being frustrated and not accomplishing everything that we
wanted to do.'"' BOSCH brought the other leaders up-to-date
on the kind of help they could expect in Nicaragua, the
Dominican Republic, Venezuela and Chile. Then the group
dispersed. In the 11 months since that meeting, BOSCH
boasts, CORU has been responsible for over 50 bombings in
Miami, New York, Venezuela, Panama, Mexico, and Argentina.
(BOSCH refused to admit any personal involvement in bombings
within the United States; police sources Say the leaders
had agreed not to take credit for actions within the.U.
because the FBI was putting too much heat on nem.) Cy)

i

D. Information Furnished By RICARDO MORALES
NAVARRETE, Official of the Venezuelan Intelligence
Services (DISIP)

that a(DISIP official] LUIS POSADA, attended one of the CORU®

On May 9, 1977, RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE advised Rye.
>) 9 SECRET

Lore YEN

Docld:32340877 Page 6


WFO 185-425 SECRET

meetings that were held in Costa Rica in June, 1976.

(MORALES during the interview in fact said Costa Rica,

but it was evident from the rest of his conversation that

he meant the Dominican Republic). MORALES did not know

which specific meeting POSADA attended, but stated that
another Venezuelan had also been present and it was Dr.
AURELIO ALVAREZ ECHESARTI. Others present at the

CORU meeting as reported to MORALES, since he was not present,
were FRANK CASTRO, member of the FLNC, OSCAR ANGULO,FLNC,
ORLANDO BOSCH, Accion Cubana, JOSE DIONISIO SUAREZ ESQUIVEL,
one of the NOVO brothers representing MNC (Moviemento Nacional
Cubano). During one of these meetings, it was discussed that
CORU would not have any more actions in the U.S., but DIONISIO
SUAREZ was not in agreement because he said they already have

an operation going in tH ~S,, but they would be able to comply
| after ninety days. $ (¥)

a On May 10, 1977, MORALES furnished the following
information with regards to the June, 1976, meeting (i, the
Dominican Republic of the anti-CASTRO Cuban exiles: uf

N With regards to the June, 1976, meeting in the
\ Dominican Republic of the anti-CASTRO Cuban Exile Organization,
i MORALES stated that LUIS POSADA attended the meeting as an
(SGeent for DISIP. MORALES continued that upon POSADA's return
0 Caracas,(DISIP\learned that JOSE DIONISIO SUAREZ had Cs3
attended the meeting as the representative from the CNM.
MORALES confirmed the presence at the meeting of ORLANDO BOSCH,

ROBERT CABALLO, and ARMANDO LOPEZ ESTRADA. MORALES further
4 stated that FRANK CASTRO had been the individual who had
fl organized the meeting, and that it had taken plaee with

|, the knowledge and blessing of the Government of the Dominican

bo Republic. POSADA also reported that all of the groups attending,
with the exception of the CNM, were in favor of confining any
actions against the Cuban Government to areas outside the

U.S. POSADA also reported that actions against the Cubana

Airlines were discugsed af@ that as a result, subsequent
actions were taken. 0 ¢

MORALES continued that on the evening of May 9, 1977,
he was talking to FRANK CASTRO, who is now residing in Miami,
Florida. MORALES stated that CASTRO advised him during
the telephone conversation that during the meeting, JOSE DIONISIO
SUAREZ had made the statement that the CNM had one contract with
the Chileans in the U.S., which stdll_ had to be carried out,
and this was the LETELIER killing.

10 Au) SECRET

; yy a

Docld:32340877 Page 7


©

WFO 185-425 SECRET

several obvious factual conflicts Dr. RIVAS VASQUEZ
advised in March, 1977, that one o he DISIP sources

had reported two meetings in the Dominican Republic in
June, 1976. A larger one, which was a political meeting,
and the smaller one, which was strictly operational, whose
purpose was to decide on terrorist activity against Cuba.

An analysis of the above, SD TRIVAS reflects
t

to the source, was GUILLERMO NOVO. (M 1337-S, who was
also in attendance at the June, 1976, meeting, advised
that the meetings were held in the Dominican Republic

on June 11, 12, and 13, 1976, and that the representatives
from the Cuban Nationalist Movement were Dr. JUAN PULIDO
and JOSE DIONISIO SUAREZ, not GUILLERMO NOVO. Moreover,
MM 1337-S presented the conference more as one continuous
than as two separate meetings, but did advise that the
conference contained discussions of future terrorist

activities. Op

BOSCH, through BLAKE FLEETWOOD, confirmed that
the meeting had taken place in June of 1976 in the Dominican
Republic and had been attended by all of the military and
political directors of the different Cuban exile groups.
BOSCH also confirmed through the FLEETWOOD article that
CORU had been formed at that meeting, and that he himself
was the leader. (U)

»

MORALES in his statements confirmed that the
meeting had taken place and stated t it was only one of
the CORU meetings held in June, 1976 ‘urther, MORALES
advising that his information came BougtCai Srp agent a
LUIS POSADA, stated that JOSE SUAREZ, not ILLERMO Nt

had been r sentative from the Cuban Nationalist
Movement. REx

As can be’ seen from the above, several distinct
references were made to two meetings in the Dominican
Republic in June of 1976. They can either be interpreted
as two meetings at the same three-day conference or as a
continuous meeting over a period of several days, which
obviously involved more than one physical encounter of
attendees, which would thereby explain the apparent 5
conflict. This in fact was the original interpretation
by the 00 as regards to the above point inasmuch--as MM~-133)
reported the presence of SUAREZ at the June , g7e, meeting
and this was corroborated by another source~ e 00 was
therefore persuaded to believe that in fact SUAREZ did
attend the meeting, and that the information provided byf.
DISIP:which indicated that GUILLERMO NOVO had-been t,
representative at the meeting, had been simply an er

11 SECRET}
\ TVOWIW

Among those present at the 0" NOVO soa meeting, no was CS)

i

aby.

Docld:32340877 Page 8
