# docid-32290847-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

'FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10206-10123

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-12-302, 301

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: BARRETT, ROBERT M.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/01/1962

PAGES:

102

SUBJECTS :

THP, RACK AND SUBV, NARCOTICS, PROSTITUTION,

GAMBLING, FORT WORTH PDT, CORRUPTION, INVEST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO, RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES i-II, INDEX PAGES a-k

v9.1

12

---

## Page 2

DI 94-55

It should be noted that in the obtaining of the data

for this report, trustworthy confidential sources, SAC contacts

and trustworthy law enforcement officers, as well as informants

throughout the Dallas Division were contated. Only pertinent

or positive information obtained is set out in this report as

well as information obtained through file reviews of previous

intelligence-type and substantive case investigations. Negative

contacts are not set out in accordance with Bureau instructions.

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS:

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and T symbols were utilized in this report only in

those instances where the identities of the sources must be

concealed and where the sources have so requested that their

identity be concealed.

T SYMBOL NUMBER

IDENTITY OF INFORMANT

CONTACTED BY

NE 1-1

NY T=1

Di I-1

DL. T-2

PCI LOUIS KALETSKY

NY-3123-C*

New Haven FBI

New York FBI

DL - 140-C

SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING

JAMES CECIL HEIFNER

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT

(who has requested his

identity be kept confidential)

DI. T-3

DL T 4

DL T-5

DL T.6

DL T-7

PCI WILLIAM W. PETREE

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT

0L-95-C

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT

DL-143-C*

DeLLAS FBI

DL-144-C*

Dallas FBI

ABB CURTIS, Head of

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT

Officials for Southwest

Conference, Dallas who

has requested his identity

be kept confidential.

DIs

T-8

PCI R. B, SMEDLEY

DI

T-9

PCI BOB BAIN

ĐL

T- 10

DL

T-11

DL

T-12

DL

T-13

DI.

T 14

ĐL T-15

DL T-16

DI. T-17

PCI H. L, STEPHENSON

DL - 89-C

DL- 79-C

DI- 115-C

PCI JIM BUTLER

DL- 98 - C

DL-84-C

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

SA SAM C. COTTON

SA SAM C. COTTON

SA SAM C. COTTON

SA SAM C. COTTON

SA EDWIN C. DORRIS

SA, JOSEPH M. MYERS

COVER PAGE

---

## Page 3

DL. 94- 55

T SYMBOL NUMBER

DL. T-18

DL. T 19

DL. T-20

DL

T-21

DL

T-22

DL T-23

DL T-24

DL. T-25

DI T-26

DE T-27

Du T-28

DI T-29

DL T-30

DL T-31

DL. T-32

DL T-33

DL T-34

DI T-35

IDENTITY OF INFORMANT

CONTACTED BY

JACKIE RUTH SHEFFIELD,

who

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

has requested her identity

be kept confidential.

PCI TRAVIS EUGENE PHIFER

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

DL 125-C

SA ALAN L. MANNING

PCI FRANK C. GARCIS

SA JAMES W. BOOKHOUT

PCI EARL CHAMPION

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

PCI ANDY BRYAN .

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

LEONARD DORSETT, Ft. Worth

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

P, who has requested his

identity be kept confidential.

EARL BROWN, Chief Deputy

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

Tarrant County SO who has

requested his identity be

kept

confidential only as to

the information furnished

for this report.

EDWIN PHILLIPS, General

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

Counsel, Tarrant County

Crime Conmission, who has

requested his identity be kept

contidential as to pertinent

informatin set out in this

report.

E. N. BUIE, Chief Criminal

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

Investigator, Tarrant County

So, who has requested his

identity be kept confidential

as to certain information set

out in this report,

Prostitute WANDA FAYE MOONEY SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

who bas requested her

identity be kept confidential.

BERT D. EDMONDSON, Ft. Worth SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

Texas PD, who has requested

his identity be kept confidential.

JIMMIE ANDERSON, former PCI,

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

Dallas Division

PCI GLENN E. RAINES

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT

PCI JOSEPH N. FERRARI

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT

DE 105-C

SA MILTON L. NEWSOM

• JEROME J. CRANE, Confidential

Source for Dallas Office

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT

who has requested his identity

be kept confidential.

DI 122-C

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT

COVER PAGE

---

## Page 4

DL 94-55

TexAS

have been filed in a number of years; however, nost of these cases

have not been prosecuted by DOUG CROUCH, Tarrant County District

Attorney.

One of the most notorious panderers, ANGELO THOMAS:

CASTEN,

who operated the Desert Village Motel, Jacksboro Highway,

north of Fort Worth, was allowed to plead guilty to five counts

of adultery and pay a $5,000.00 line by CROUCH Instead of trying

CASTEN on two well-developed cases of pandering:

CLIFFORD BRADSHAW FITZWILLIAMS, a Dallas procurer, has

operated two or three call houses several blocks away from

Lieutenant OLIVER BALL's residence during the past two jears..

has operated

house of prostitution

for a number of years at this address and

other addresses in Fort Worth. She usually has two of three girle

staying at her place at any one time.

she allows girls to f1l1

dates at this house and also to take calls to hotels and motels.

The Jackson Hotel, 10141 Main Street, usually keeps two

or three prostitutes to fill dates at the hotel which is located

¿Aabout one and

1s operated bague-half blocks from police Headquarters. Tata hotel

STEVE, RARKER and his wife, SHIRLEX PARKER, acte asT CLA

madam.

DL T-18 furnished

information on February 9, 1964. that

she and other prostitutes would take out $10.00 of their earaings

each night and give them to JAMES NORMAN WELLS, her pimp, who in

turn was

to furnish this money to SHIRLEY PARKER tO pASS On to /CXA

the Fort Worth Police Department Vice Squad. DL T-18 stated

that she had paid a Fort Worth Patrolman, H. RUFRENCH, $20,90

on one occasion in 1962 and agreed to pay him the same amount Texas

every month to allow her and

other girls to operate fron the

call house at 4333 Westridge.

him in 1958 and 1959 as prostitutes and that he had paid former

DI I-19 advised that he had several girls working for d

Fort Worth Police Department Vice Squad Sergeant ROBERT LX WOOTEN

between $500.00 and $600.00 over a period of a few months not to

arrest his girls.

In addition, DL T-19 stated that he had given

WOOTEN a diamond ring for this same protection. WOOTEN 1s

presently under investigation by the FBI concerning a possible

White Slave Traffic Act violation.

pL T-17 stated she paid

WOOTEN $20.00 to $50.00 over a period of six or seven months

and estimated paying him over $1,000.00 to keep from being

arrested for prostitution.

The following are the most active pimps and prostitutes

in the Fort Worth-Tarrant County area:

24

---

