# docid-32576635

## Page 1

FD-265 (Rev: 5-1-59).

REPORTING OFFICE

LOS ANGELES

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/12/65

7/18/64-5/3/65

REPORT MADE BY

NEWTON E. YOST

CHARACTER OF CASE

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

TYPED BY

mj&

REFERENCES: Report of SA NEWION E. YOST dated 7/22/64,

at Los Angeles.

Bureau airtel to New York dated 4/16/05.

New York airtel to Bureau dated 4/28/65.

-P-

ENCLOSURES

IO BUREAU

Two (2) copies of a letterhead memorandum setting

forth characterization of informants.

TO NEW YORK

Two (2) copies of a letterhead memorandum setting

forth characterization of informants.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECCALAGENT

- Bureau (92-6054) (ENGI

- Chicago (info)

2

- New York (92-2300) (ENCL.2)

- San Diego (92-229) (info)

1

- San Francisco

(info).

2 - Los Angeles (92-1112)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92+6054-1073

REC-A

IC MAY 13 | 1365

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

C6.

146, Crittal Division,

Organized Crime

and Pint

Section, Koom

Fetcering

By

Notations

DocId: 32576635 Page 1

---

## Page 2

LA 92-1112

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Considerable information relating to the JOE BONANNO

"Family" and JOE BONANNO's disappearance has been received

from LA 4335-C-TE.

All such pertinent information has been

furnished to the New York Office.

Since this matter relates

to incidents occurring and individuals active in the New

York area

and since the New York Office is also in possession

of extensive related information received from highly

authoritative sources, such information can best be correlated

and related by the New York Office and that information

received in Los Angeles was, therefore, not included in the

details of this report.

INFORMANTS

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and "T"

symbols were utilized only in those instances

where the identities of the sources must be concealed.

LA T-I

LA 4448-C-TE

LA T-2

LA 4412-C-TE

LA 4335-C-TE

LA I-3

LEADS

CHICAGO OFFICE

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. One copy of this report is

designated for Chicago as information concerning individuals

in that area appears in this report.

SAN DIEGO OFFICE

4I SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA. One copy of this report

is designated for san

Diego as information concerning individual

in that area appears in this report.

-B-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32576635 Page 2

---

