# docid-32292265-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10209-10041

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-357

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/08/1961

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

GAL, RES, REL

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

368

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

NOV 81961

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson_

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoadb

Mr. Evange

Mr.

Maiord

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter_

Tele. Room_

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy-

DEFERRED

18-08-51

9-00 PM SM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-38821

FROM SAG, CHICAGO 192-3.731

8 P

ALEX, AKAO

ARO DAILY SUMMARY. PCI FRANK LA CROIX ADVISED THAT HE

CONTINUES TO OBSERVE GUS ALEX AND HIS GIRL FRIEND, SUZANN MAIER,

FREQUENTLY ENTERING AND LEAVING ALEX-S APARTMENT AT ONE ONE FIVE ZERO

PLE NORTH LAKE SHORE DRIVE, CHICACO, AND HE LAST OBSERVED THEM ON NOW.

FOUR, SIXTY ONE. INFORMANT SAID HE RECENTLY TALKED WITH ALEX AND ASKED

HIM IF HE WOULD NOT MOVE DUE TO RECENT PUBLICITY IN LOCAL NEWSPAPERS

CONTAINING PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE APARTMENT BUILDING AND STATING THAT

ALEX RESIDED THERE. ALEX TOLD INFORMANT HE DID NOT INTEND TO MOVE AND

STATED QUOTE THEY DON-T HAVE ANYTHING ON ME. I DON-T HAVE ANY RECORD.

I-VE NEVER BEEN ARRESTED. THE ONLY RECORD I HAVE IS A NEWSPAPER RECORD

AND THAT DON-T HURT ANYBODY UNQUOTE. INFORMANT CONTINUED THAT THE

LEASE FOR ALEX-S APARTMENT WILL DEFINITELY NOT BE RENEWED UPON

TERMINATION. IT IS NOTED PREVIOUS INVESTIGATION REVEALS THE APARTMENT

WHERE ALEX RESIDES WAS RENTED ON FEB• ONE, LAST BY HIS BROTHER SAM

TAYLOR AND THE LEASE EXECUTED BY TAYLOR AT THAT TIME RUNS UNTIL JANUARY

THIRTY, SIXTY THREE ALEX ARMED AND DANCERS WEENERAL FENDENCIES.

END AND ACK PLS

10-02 PM OK FBI WA JS

* REC SI 92-3182

238

2 NOV 1 4 1961

t.

1IBE NOVE 196106..

---

