# docid-32289872

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10202-10148

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-587

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/26/1962

1

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

GAL, ACT, INFT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32289872

Page 1

212

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU O# 7'9A0N

U. S. DEPARTMENI ut JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JULZ 8 196277

Mr. Feiaon

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahan_

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoack

Mr. Ovans.-

Mr. Malone Y

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan_

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter_

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy-

DEFERRED

7-26-52

11-28 PM TN

TO DIRECTOR, FBI

92-3182

FROM SAC CHICAGO

92-373

GUSTALEX, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

PCI ROBERT JOSEPH MC DONNELL ADVISED THAT FROM RECENT

CONVERSATIONS WITH SO CALLED SYNDICATE MEMBERS IN THE CHICAGO

AREA HE IS OF THE OPINION THAT GUS ALEX IS PROBABLY THE

NUMBER TWO MAN IN THE OUTFIT TODAY. HE SAID ALEX

IS REPORTEDLY

IN CHARGE OF ALL GAMBLING ACTIVITIES

IN CHICAGO-S LOOP AREA

AND HE ALSO SERVES AS A SENIOR ADVISOR TO THE LESSER MEMBERS

OF THE OUTFIT. IT IS NOTED ABOVE INFORMATION TENDS TO:

SUBSTANTIATE INFORMATION PREVIOUSLY FURNISHED BY CG

SIX FOUR

Rità

FOUR THREE DASH C REGARDING ALEX ALLEGED POSITION AND AGTIVITIES

IN THE OUTFIT IN CHICAGO.

chi

ALEX ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES*

END AND HOLD PLS

278.9

isid

587

REG A

801.%

92-3/82

JUL 2'7 1962

5 6 AUG 1 1962

DocId: 32289872

Page 2

---

