# docid-32323092

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90010-10096

RECORD SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-9734-732

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

FAIN

DL

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/01/1961

2

AMERICAN G.I. FORUM

BETTY J. MANN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32323092

Page

53

---

## Page 2

OF 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

MEMORANDUM

TO

: SAC, DALLAS (200-8561)

FROM

: SA JOHN W. FAIN

SUBJECT:

BETTY J, MANN

SM - C

DATE:

3/1/61

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TEREIN IS UNCLASSINIE

ATE2-15-97 BY 5668 SED KSR

report dated 1/29/61 from DLa16os.

been

typewritten

This report has

serialized

as 134-44A-462, and contains the

following information:

A CP meeting was held at 8:00 PM, 1/29/69 at 1423 Clinton

street, Ft. Worth, Texas, attended by the following

• CP members:

BETTY MANN

HAROLD MANN

EARLENE MARTIN

COLUMBUS MARTIN

MCKINNEY FRETWELL

PHIL BARKER

EVERETT E. HUFFMAN

Topic for discussion at this meeting was the forth

coming Senatorial race and how the CP group could be instrumental

in aiding Senator GONZALEZ in his campaign for U. S. Senator.

1 = 1008561

1 = 13444A-462 A (rpts DL-16-S)

- 100-8145 (H. MANN)

• 100-10176 (E. MARTIN)

1 - 100-10174 (C. MARTIN)

• 100-8254 (D. FRETWELL)

1 - 100-10275 (J. BARKER)

• 100-9701 (E. HUFFMAN)

S100-9734 (G.I. FORUM)

-134-47

(M. CARTER)

1

100-10433 (C. STANSEURY)

1

100-671-4 (MEMBERSHIP)

1

100-671-5 (ORGANIZATION)

1 100671-8

(POL. ACTS)

JWF: jeg

(14)

100-9734-

SLOW FIED

MA-

- 64195

732

DocId:32323092

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DE 100-8561

PHIL BARKER told the group that he had received a tele

phone call from GILBERT GARCIA O1 the G.

1.

Forum in

which GARCIA

told PHIL BARKER that there would be an organizational meeting of

the workers in the GONZALEZ campaign scheduled for Monday, 1/ 30/61

at the st. Joseph Youth Center on North

side Fort worth.

HAROLD MANN suggested that all of the

male members

of the

CP group should go to the above meeting but that each member

shoudd

go to the meeting alone and not in a group.

HAROLD MANN said that GARCIA was informed sometime ago

by MARGARET CARTER of the Democrat Organizing Committee (DOC) that

he was a communist and since that time GARCIA has shuuned MANN.

HAROLD also said he would not like for the whole group to be banned

as communists on account of his being with then.

HAROLd told

EARLENE MARTIN to remain at home and write all of the poll taxes

she could and encourage all the people possible to vote for GoNZALEz.

He said the male members would go to the meeting and see if the CP

could be instrumental in the GONZALEZ campaign.

BETTY MANN was at first undecided as to whether she should

go to the meeting with HAROLD MANN, however, later she said she

had decided to go to the meeting but that she and HAROLD would

arrive about ten minutes after the meeting started.

The latter portion of this meeting was devoted to &

discussion of the possibilities of CAROLYN STANSBURY becoming a

member of the group.

PHIL BARKER told them that CAROLYN had asked

him if she could return to one of the group meetings but Phil said

he had to discuss the Marx theory with her some more and make

sure

that she is ready. BARKER said that he is very doubtful that

CAROLYN would make a good Communist but that he never turns down an

opportunity to try to recruit someone into the group.

PHIL BARKER also said that CAROLYN has a friend by the

name of NAOMI (LNU) who wants to come to the meeting with CAROLYN

but that she will definitely be refused until he can learn more

about her.

BARKER said that CAROLYN STANSBURY is currently attending

Arlington State College.

(DL-20-s has also reported concerning the above CP meeting

of 1/29/61.)

•2 c

DocId: 32323092 Page 3

---

