# docid-32328921

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/19/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90083-10021

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-92196-19

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE: 02/28/1962

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

30TH OF NOVEMBER REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT

CARLOS RODRIGUEZ QUESADA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32328921

Page

1

5

---

## Page 2

D'

ITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

Fite No.

FEB 2 8 1962

Miami, Florida

30th of NOVEMBER MOVEMENT

CUBAN REBEL ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

JULIO DEL CASTILLO DIAZ, 4023 N.W. 21st Court,

Miami, Florida, advised on February 6/and 14, 1962, that

he is

a neuro- surgeon,

presently working at the Jackson

Memorial Hospital

• in Miami.

He said he received his

medical education in the United States, and that he re-

turned to Cuba in the summer of 1960 to begin his practice.

DEL CASTILLO advised that upon his return to Cuba he soon

became aware of the extent of the Communist domination

over the Cuban

government.

Soon after returning he took

steps to put himself in contact with the anti-CASTRO

underground groups operating in Havana, where he lived.

DEL CASTILLO related that in the fall of 1960 he

became acquainted with DAVIDASALVADOR, the founder of the

30th of November Movement. Through SALVADOR he was able

to become a member of the group, and was placed in the

Professional Section.

He said he continued his anti-

CASTRO activity with

the 30th of November Movement until

November 3, 1961, when he was forced to seek asylum in

the Brazilian Embassy in Havana. He said he remained at

the embassy for 51 days, when he was able to obtair

permission to come to the U.S., where he arrived just be-

fore Christmas.

Regarding the activity of the 30th of November

Movement in Cuba, DEL CASTILLO advised that it was divided

Into 4 groups, namely: The Workers Section, the Profession-

a section, the Student Section and the Farmers Section.

In addition, there was a coordinator for each

Province.

Ine basic organizational group was the cell

which consisted of from 3 to 10 members, with each cell

9-3-94 SPBMACEN JFK

4-20-94 501

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

8) 5181

_BYSP6BJA| DmS

105-92196-14

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32328921

Fage

CUBA

---

## Page 3

30th of NOVEMBER MOVEMENT

CUBAN REBEL ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

being composed of individuals living in proximity to

each other. Each of the 4 groups was subdivided into

areas of operation, such as action and sabotage,

finance, propaganda, supply and military. DEL

CASTILLO stated that the action and sabotage groups were

usually caught, and it was seldom that an individual could

remain in this activity more than 3 or 4 months.

sabotege Eradual could

At the time that he was active, the tinance group

was charged with the responsibility of obtaining tunds;

which was usually accomplished by the sale of bonds to

members or sympathizers.

The propaganda activity, which

was handled on a celt basis,

consisted mainly of the dis

tribution of mimeographed sheets exposing the Communist

nature of the CASTRO government.

He stated that the supply activity was almost

nil in the last months of his activity, since there were

no supplies.

He stated that the military group consisted of

those designated to go to the hills and mountains, but

that very little activity of such a nature actually took

place, due to the lack of resources.

DEL CASTILLO mentioned that the Farmers Section

of the 30th of November Movement was

it was found very difficult to organize these people due

to their lack of education and their general way of life.

i chate

the weakest, since

He stated that the Workers, Students and Professional

Sections were well

organized and that the 30th of November

Movement had groups in all 33 of the Labor confederations

of Cuba:

DEL CASTILLO stated that prior to the invasion

of April 11, 1961 by anti- CASTRO forces, the 30th of

November Movement in Cuba was very well organized in all

Provinces. In addition, prior to April 17, 1961, alliances

with other underground organizations had been made,

DocId: 32328921. Page 3

---

## Page 4

30th Of NOVEMBER MOVEMENT

CUBAN REBEL ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

particularly among the professionals.

DEL CASTILLO advised, however, that the under-

ground movement suffered a severe setback following the

unsuccessful invasion of April 17, 1961.

As a result

of mass arrests nich followed the invasion, the 30ch

of November Movement was seriously disorganized, and

there followed

a period of almost total inactivity.

DEL CASTILLO stated that the movement was re-

covering its strength and reorganizing during the summer

and

fall. of 1961.

At this time,

however, there were

several arrests made by the CAsIRe government, including

the arrest of the General Coordinator of the Movimiento

Revolucionario del Pueblo (MP)s described by DEL

CASTILLO as probably the strongest of the underground

organizations.

He stated that following the arrest of REYNOL

GONZALEZ,

the MP disintegrated and as of the time he

left Cuba in December, 1961, It was of no consequence.

DEL CASTILLO said that the 30th of November

Movement suffered a similar disaster shortly after the

arrest of GONZALEZ, when JULIAN REYES,

a young student

who had worked his

way to the top echelon of the Student

Section of the 30th of November Movement, proved to be

an agent of the Cuban government.

In the last days of

REYES turned In the names of many of the leaders

leadership of the Student Section,

and consequently

many leaders and members of the 30th of November Move-

ment were arrested.

Others were

able to escape to

asylum in some of the Embassies in Havana, but the acti

vities of the organization were almost eliminated.

DEL

CASTILLO stated that at the time this happened, he himself

was Vice Coordinator of the Professional Section of the

30th of November.

DEL CASTILLO advised that while he was in the

Embassy, he was able to maintain contact with the 30th

of November Movement in Havana by telephone, and that he

• 3.

DocId: 32328921 - Page_ 4

---

## Page 5

30th OF NOVEMBER MOVEMENT

CUBAN REBEL ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

learned that despite the setback caused by Reyes, meet

ings were still being held, although no activity

permitted for security reasons.

he left, the organization was

He said that at the time

inactive.

DEL CASTILLO stated he had received a letter from

a friend in the 30ch of November Movement in Cuba, about

3 weeks ago,

which indicated that efforts to reorganize

- the movement

were proceeding.

DEL CASTILLO advised that the principal diffi-

cultled encoutered by the mere chase imposed by the

few months of his activicy.

during the last

vigilance comittees in each block which made it impossible

to meet, and therefore impossible to plam.

He said that

every movement is

only

able to operate as a

Section.

Reaper de la a cora. or a he

viewed with suspicion and that it was

position as a physician that he was

coordinator in the Professional

He stated, however,

that he was surveilled from

time to

time,

had

and

wals

Frequently asked to explain how he

spent certain periods

"Of time.

DEL CASTILLO also mentioned that another serious

problem for the underground was

that of finances.

As an

example, he pointed out that certain people who devoted

thelr entire activity to underground sork had to be

supported by the underground.

year and a halt he was in the 30th of November Movement, the

group lost in one

fashion or another,

82 automobiles.

said that automobiles were vital to the effective operation

the underground in the cities.

DEL CASTILLO stated

that fear and the threat of

infiltration by CASTRO agents had

seriously

paralyzed the

activities of the underground organizations, including the

30th of November Movement in Cuba.

Movement

Regarding the operations of the 30th of November

in the U.S., DEL CASTILLO advised that CARLOS

RODRIGUEZ, QUESADA, now living in exile in Miami, is considered

DO01d:32328921

Page

--

---

## Page 6

30th of NOVEMBER MOVEMENT

CUBAN REBEL ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

py the movement in Cuba as the General Coordinator, despite

the fact that others in Miami have differed with him anc

tended to go their own way.

JESUS FERNANDEZ HERNANDEZ and ORLANDO RODRIGUEZ have been

at odds with RODRIGUEZ QUESADA for some months now.

stated, however, that during the last 2 weeks some definite

steps have been taken to resolve the differences betweer

them and to reunite the organization.

DEL CASTILLO advised that RODRIGUEZ QUESADA waS

a strong anti-Communist labor leader in Cuba for about

15 years. He is not a well educated person,

but is a

persuasive speaker who commands great respect from labor-

ing people in Cuba.

vespite his lack of education, DEl

CASTILLO described him as a person having a keen mind.

a good understanding of the Communist threat, and a

destina meet

staunch friend of the U.S.

PROPERTY OF FBI - This memoandum is loaned to you by the

FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed

outside the agency to which loaned.

5

Doc1d:32328921Page 6..

---

