# docid-32309307

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/21/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10298-10094

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 29-31889-173

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, DE

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/22/1963

5

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

Consulted

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/21/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOS

• COMMENTS :

REFERRED TO DOJ, INC A/T, LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32309307

36

Page 1

---

## Page 2

11/26/63

Airtel

To:: SAC, Detroit

(29-1432)

REG-

From: Director,

13'

(29-31889) - 173

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA

EX. " 117.

LOLINICE DIVARD BARIONS, AKA.,

ET AL.

FRA; ITSP; VI; FBW; CONSPIRACY

100:

Detroit)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 10-11 - 9438SQ8 MAC/KST

(JFK)

ReDlairtel dated 11/22/63 with LaM enclosed.

Dissemination of rehht being withheld at the Bureau and

Detroit should do likewise ponding clarification of the following:

Reairtel does not specifically indicate the date or

the person fron whom information furnished by Bobert C. Meissner

No Department Attornoy Willlan French was received:

made tois intormation available to the Dotroit office,

1 Ns. french

there

appears to be no need for concealing either his identity as the

person who furnished this information or the identity of

Meissner as French's source in roLAM inasmuch as this memorandum

Is disseminated to the Criminal Division of the Department only.

Mr. French requested that Meissner's identity be protected

this manner, you should so state in your cover airtel as well

as indicating any roason he may have for such a request.

By return airtel advise Bureau clarification of above

and wether or not dissemination of relat can be made in its

present form.

Chicago

(29-1999) (Informatton)

LRK: dem: jlt

(4)

•PRELICE

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

MAILED 27.

NOV 86.

1963,

11?

COMM-FBI

22 31a6

DEC SMAL

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32309307

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 11/22/63

(Type in plain text or code)

AM

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (29-31889)

FROM:

SAC,

DETROIT (29-1432)

(P)

JAMES RIDDLE

HOFFA;

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE, aka; ET AL

FRA; ITSP; ME; FBW; CONSPIRACY

(00: DETROIT)

EX103 euChAK

Remyairtel 11/12/63.

Enclosed herewith to the Bureau are four copies of an LHM con-

taining information furnished to Dept. Attorney WILLIAM FRENCH

by ROBERT C. MEISSNER,

based upon a discussion between MEISSNER

and JOSEPH F. VERHELLE at the Washington Hotel, Washington, D.C.

on 11/18/63.

A copy of this LHM is being furnished to Chicago for information

in view of the fact that MEISSNER resides there and reference

is made to possible future developments in Chicago.

A copy of

this LHM also will be furnished to FRENCH at Detroit.

Dept. Attorney THOMAS J. MC KEON, Detroit, advised on 11/22/63

that FRENCH has returned to Washington, D.C., and it wss not

known definitely at this time whether VERHELLE still plans to

meet MeISSNER in Chicago 11/25/63, as they had tentatively

planned on 11/18/53.

3

Bureau (Enc.

-

Chicago (Info.)

(29-1999) (Enc.])

1

Detroit

VGW/ vW

(5)

2. Etm Criminal Divicion - Old

Attenton: Mr. Vane: J.S

REC. 1

39-31889-173

1A8 NOV

/retained

1963

Quite?

Approved:

Sent -

- M

Per .

Special Agent in Charge

DocId:32309307

Page 3

---

## Page 4

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Detroit, Michigan

November 22, 1963

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA; DOMINICK

EDWARD BARTONE; ET AL

FEDERAL RESERVE ACT; INTERSTATE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEN

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

PROPERTY; MAIL FRAUD; FRAUD BY

DATE 16-11-94 BYSO 8 MACKSR

WIRE; CONSPIRACY

(ГТКС)

The following information was recently received

by the Department of Justice from a confidential source

who has furnished reliable information in the past:

A conference of various

persons including James

Ro Hoffa, two vice presidents of the International

Brotherhood of Teamsters, and Joseph FoVerhelle, former

president of Public Bank, Detroit, allegedly took place

November 18, 1963.

the Teamsters Pension Fund, allegedly including the

possibility of a loan from the fund for the purpose of

purchasing

the building at 130 North Franklin Ch

Chicago

Illinois

Meissner Engineers, Inc.

(MEI), formerly

occupied

the top five floors of this building and now is

reportedly interested in purchasing the building, possibly

in conjunction with Verhelle and/or other purchasers.

Verhelle reportedly felt that the above-mentioned

loan could be made and that Robert C.

Meissner, president

of MEI, could be of assistance to Hoffa in view of business

and political contacts of MEI in Nashville, Tennessee, and

Chicago. Verhelle indicated he had received information

that MEI had done work on a chemical plant in Tennessee

about a year ago and also had contacts with the Tennessee

Highway Department and various other agencies and political

figures in Tennessee. Verhelle also conveyed the impression

that Federal Judge Richard

Austin of Chicago is an old friend

918-100d

DocId: 32309307 Page 4

---

## Page 5

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE; ET AL

of the Meissner family. To further explore the possibility

that Meissner might be utilized for the benefit of Hoffa in

connection with the cases pending in Federal courts in

Nashville and Chicago, Verhelle indicated that he would soon

confer with an attorney who was not identified by name but

who was referred to as the "quarterback" of the team of more

than 30 attorneys who reportedly are working on these cases

for Hoffa. Verhelle anticipated that after so conferring,

it would be determined whether Meissner might be able to

help Hoffa through efforts directed toward one or more members,

of a jury or toward the judge himself.

Verhelle allegedly favored trying to make an

"arrangement" with Judge Austin through Meissner on the basis

of being an "old friend", and it was Verhelle"s feeling that

if Judge Austin were to make some rather minor procedural

mistake that would cause a mistrial, such a "human error" on

the part of the judge would not destroy his career but would

be of great value to Hoffa. Verhelle indicated that in

return for such favors to Hoffa, "they" would be happy to

pay the persons responsible for

the favors.

Tentative

arrangements were made for Verhelle to attempt to meet with

Meissner in Chicago in the near future, to discuss the

possibility of a Pension Fund loan to purchase the building

and also

at 130 North Franklin and also the possibility of Meissner

being of assistance to Hoffa in regard to pending court cases.

Verhelle also intimated that he has a number of bank

accounts

in Switzerland and that he handles some of these

accounts for Hoffa®

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is

loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

2

gd8-10nd

DocId: 32309307 Page 5

---

