# docid-32565019

## Page 1

0-4a (Rev. 2-14-61)

Invoice of Contents from

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D. C.

Date

•6-5-64

Consigned to: SAG, Philadelphia

Case References

92-2839

ReBualstel, 6-5-64

MAILED 4.

JUN 5 - 1964

COMM-FOU

Bach

List of Contents

115463 см.

Return to Roompose

Crypt. -Irans.

Document

Plectronics.

500, MR-3 Telephone Instrungstes-Chemistry

LFPS

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

Mail Room, place date of shipment and registry number;

Shipping Room, show date of shipment, bill of lading number and initial this

invoice; then retum it to section checked in column at right. After this

checked section has been initialed, invoice should be placed in administrative

50 JUNYa Registered mati Special Delivery

DooId: 32565019

Page

---

## Page 2

airtel

6/5/64

- Mr. Conrad

- Mr. Millen

-

Mr. Baker

- Mr. Miller

TO: SAC, Philadelphia (92-441)

FROM:

84888805, 107.122-9839)- H19

REC 16.

RUSSELL A. BUPALINO

JUNE

Reurairtel

6/3/64, submitting type 500M-3

telephone

instrument to the Laboratory for alteration.

Instrument alteration and installation of MITE

equipment completed as requested in reairtel.

Telephone

instrument being returned to you this date by registered

mall spocial delivery.

Installation authority has been handled by separate

communication.

NOTE: Authority for installation of altered instrument in

Pittstown, Pennsylvania, was granted by Bulet to

Philadelphia dated 6/5/64.

nuts

"MAILED 27,

JUN 5 - 1964

COMM-FBI

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele.

Hometom JUN

Gandy

• R 1

RAM : ssh

bit all

BECEINED COASTO

1964

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32565019

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

6/3/64

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

(Type in plain text or code)

REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

Director, FBI

(92-2839)

SAC, Philadelphia (92-441)

RUSSELL A.

BUFALINO

AR

Attn: Electronics Section

R. MILLER

FBI Laboratory

JU NIE

Re Phila. airtel 6/2/64, enclosing FD 142.

By separate cover Phila. is forwarding one Western

It has been ascertained that

a 500DR-3 Western Electric set is being installed in subject's

office, as described in referenced communique.

The only

difference between the two sets is that the 500MR-3 has four

conductor wires which will enable the desired alteration of

this set.

It is requested that the 500MR-3 be altered so that

a mite, mate or similar microphone will be installed in the

network of this phone.

Arrangements are that the subject is to receive

telephone service 6/9/64.

Accordingly, it is requested

that the altered set be returned to the Philadelphia Division

by 6/8/64, noting that the installation is not in Headquarters

City.

The above request is based on authorization requested

in referenced communication.

If authorization is this matter

is not granted, it is still requested

that this set be altered

as it is contemplated it will be used in a previously authorized

Bureau installation in the near future.

REE: 1992-3-839-211

- Bureau (1 - package - R"Spectal Delivery)

1 - Phila.

JRP: ERG

(5)

autel to PH

10

jUM

$1104

Approved:

C E"

Sen

.M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

SPEC.

DocId: 32565019 Page 3

---

