# docid-32307223

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10291-10363

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-5882-15, 16, 17

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

MANGAN, ROBERT E.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/30/1964

PAGES:

40

SUBJECTS :

APR, LARDIERE, JOHN, LABOR, RACK AND SUBV,

FINANCES, GAMBLING, ASSOC, LCN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 2 RPT

v9.1

DocId:32307223

13

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev: 5-T-59)

REPORTING OFFICE

NEWARK

TITLE OF CASE

JOHN LARDIERE, aKa

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARX

DATE

JUL 23 1505

REPORT MADE BY

THOMAS A. POWERS

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/3/65 - 7/16/65

AR

TYPED.

REFERENCE:

ROBERT E. MANGAN dated 2/26/65, at

-p*-

ENCLOSURES

TO THE BUREAU

Enclosed for the Bureau are two copies of a letter-

head memorandum characterizing informants utilized in this

report.

ADMINISTRATIVE

The originals of the FD-302's setting out results

of subject's Interviews are maintained in Newark File

9129780

APPROVED

!! COPIES MADE:

The following information set out in sub-captions

as furnished by NK 4g29-C* on the dates indicated:

SPECIAL" AGEN

N CHARG

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92588211

17

RECE

Bureau (92-5882)

1 - USA, Newark

2 - Newark (92-580)

3

JUL 26 1965

Trn

Notations

TECT

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

CC. AAG, Criminal Division,

Organized Clime and Rackieteering

Section, Room 2524

7/12.

By

66 AUG 19 1965

NINE

STATUSICIA

One 03

Doc1d: 32307223 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Rev. 3-3-59)

UN'

D STATES DEPARTMENT OF .. STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

1. - USA, Newark

Report of:

Date:

THOMAS A, POWERS

JUL. 23 1905

92-580

Ofice:

Newark, New Jersey

Field Office File #:

Bureau File #:

92-5882

Title:

JOHN LARDIERE

ax

REVIEWED SY EBNUFA FASA FURCE

iN 12/2317 dah

MY SELSASE IN FAL

Character:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

I PLEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

Synopsis:

LARDIERE resides at 211 North 13th Street, Newark,

NoJ. He is employed as a business representative by Local

945,

iBt, Clitton, Nods

Reportedly is a close associate of

EUGENE CATINA, prominent New Jersey hoodlum.

Source states

that LARDIERE and DANNY POLIDORI run the gambling action in

Paterson, Node, which is catina territory.

LARDIERE inter-

Tiewed 1n June

1965, concerning the robbery of the Passalc

County National Bank, and was not cooperative.

DETAILS:

RESIDENCE

Observation of the subject on June 7, 1965, revealed

that he resides at 211 North 13th Street, Newark, New

Jersey,

EMPLOYMENT

The records of the Office of labor-Management and

Welfare Pension Reports, 1060 Broad Street, Newark, New

Jersey, reveal in the labor Organizational

Annual Report

covering a period of January 1, 1964, through December

31,

1964, filed by Local 945, International Brotherhood of

Teamsters, shows that JOIN LARDIERE 1s a business representative

of Local 945 and during the year 1964 received a salary of

po, 957.00 plus expenses of 51, 821.52 for a total of $10,765.02.

This report indicates that Larvilik was a new employee during

19640

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBl. It Is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

Doc1d: 32307223 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NK 92-580

partner. CATENA instructed IBRDIERE to tell POLIDORI that he

should use a batk on anyone who does not respect POLIDORI

enough to. leave his numbers business alone.

On 5/10/65, LARDIERE told GENE CATENA that

POLIDORI's son is working In POLIDORI's numbers bank office.

LARDIERE stated that POLIDORI also wanted to take sports

action (1.e, bets on baseboll games, etc.) but LARDIERE will

not allow him to do so.

INFORMANTS

NK T-1: 1s NK 2319-C*:

NK T-2 15 NK 2140-PC.

LEAD

NEWARK

AT NEWARK,

Will at the end of six months

period re-open Investigation and report pertinent information

concerning LARDIERE.

J*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32307223 Page 1

---

## Page 5

808 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEWARK

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

TITLE OF CASE

JOHN LARDIERE,

aka.

FEBT 2 6 1965

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/1/64 - 2/16/65

REPORT MADE BY

ROBERT E. MANGAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED BY

las

REFERENCE:

Report of SA ROBIRT E. MANGAN dated 11/30/64

st Newark. salts

-pfa

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

ENCLOSUR ES

TO THE BUREAU

Enclosed for the Bureau are two copies of &

letterhead

I mene characterizing informants utilized in this

report.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The investigative period of this report is

extensive in view of the case Agent's participation in Patrob

Special.

Newark 1s kept apprised of LARDIERE's daily activities

through a highly

confidential source close to EUGENE (GENE)

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

3-Bureau

(92-5882) (Kt

1-USA, Newark

2-Newark (92-580)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-5882-16

i MAR: 11 1965

REC- 47

AGENCY..

REQUEST RECD..

DATE FWD. _

HOW FWD.

BY :

7 0 MARB

DocId: 32307223 Page 5

DISSEMINATION RECORP OF ATTACHED REPORT

Dir sent

0•7

3/3/65 4 8

NOTATIONS

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE:

18-78324-1

1965

---

## Page 6

NK 92-580

PECORA 18 a soldior In GINS CATENA'& Regino and has to obey

ordors.

In reforenco to unions, LARDIIRE nentioned that

JAMES, PAÓNE and SAMUEL -REZZA do all of PECORA's work for

hin. LARDIERE sald Local 863's ticket always carrios PECORA

into his position in olection tine and thinks that if PECORA

had to run on his ons, he mould be defeatod.

On 12/3/64, LARDIERE sald he had contacted TONY

PRO (ANTHONY PROVENZANO) about IBT Local 660 wanting to

force the company building the freozor company at Port

Newark to give the rights for organizing this warehouse to

Local 660.

At this nosting TONY PRO askod LARDIERE to

neet with

GENE CATENA.

Infornant advised that CATENA told JOSEPH PECORA

that LARDIERE had again embarrassed CAtEN.. CATEN- explainod

ho had told LARDIERE to contact TONY PRO about the trouble.

w1th Local 660 and 1f PRO could not help him, then LARDIERE

Vas to goe THOMAS 'EBOLI (TOMMY RYAN) • LARDIKRE falled to

follow theso instructions.

On 12/21/64, CATENA instructed LARDIERE to soo

SAMMY

COHEN of Moat Cuttors Local 464, East Orango, N. to,

and toll him HARDIERE has hoard rumors that ho is talking

too nuch and that ho 16 accopting noney from GENE CATENA's

compotitors. Infornant advised that on 12/24/61, LARDISRE

told CATENA that he had net with COHEN and warnod hin ab

CATEN. instructed.

On 1/6/65, GENE CATENA not w1th FRANK PALHIERI

during which time a discussion was hold concerning the

International Garnent Workers Union (IGU).

PALMIERI said

he had been mooting with (FNU) DE FILIPO (Phonetio) of

this union in an offort to mako bin live up to his forner

proniso of giving Nonarch Fashions "proforential treatnont".

CATENA becane angered at PALHIERI for not bringing this

problen up to LARDIERE as LARDIERE knons how to doal with

DE FILLIPO and keop hin in lino.

INFORMANTS:

NK T-1

PCI JOHN STEINBACK

NK I-2

NK 2319-C*

D

Cover Page

DocId: 32307223 Page 6

---

## Page 7

NK 92-580

NK T-3

NK 2443-C

LEADS:

NGWARK

Will at the end of 6 month

concerning LardIERE.

Cover Page

pId: 32307223

Page

---

