# docid-32307820

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10293-10178

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-179

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/10/1961

3

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, ASSOC, RAID, ARREST, GAMBLING ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC NOTE

v9.1

( DocId: 32307820

449

Page 1

---

## Page 2

10.

pr

Mr. Tolson.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

APR 1.0.1961

TELEI

Mr. Porsons 44

Mr. Mohr.

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

Conrad

AF.- DeLORA

Mr avans

• Malona-

URGENT 4-10-51

8-22

PM CLM

sooner.

Tavel.

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-3173/

Mr. Trotter.

vil"

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-349/ 2P

"Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy-

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

STATES ATTORNEYS POLICE RAIDED WAGON WHEEL, GAMBLING ESTABLISHMENT,

FOUR FOUR ONE TWO WEST MONTROSE, NORWOOD PARK, APRIL SEVEN LAST, AND

ARRESTED BENNIE D/AMICO, ANTHONY VERTUCCI, THOMAS RUSSO, AND ANTHONY

TIGLIO AS

KEEPERS OF GAMING HOUSE. THIS RAID BASED ON INFORMATION

FURNISHED BY THE CHICAGO OFFICE TO FORMER SA R. T. SPENCER, NOW CHIEF

INVESTIGATOR, COOK COUNTY STATES ATTORNEYS OFFICE, OF KNOWN INTEGRITY.

ALSO ARRESTED SEVERAL PATRONS, CONFISCATED SEVERAL THOUSAND DOLLARS

IN CASH. NOTED THAT THIS IS LOCATION OF ONE OF GIANCANA/S MORE

LUCRATIVE GAMBLING SPOTS, HAS BEEN AT THIS LOCATION FOR MANY YEARS.

OPERATED FOR GIANCANA BY NICK D/AMICO, WHOM GIANCANA MUSCLED SHORTLY AFTER

FOTENTIAG CRIMINAL INFARANG

THE WAR.

CERARD E, QUATE MAT ENFANGTE MURRAY, PÉI, ADVISED THAT'

HE QUOTE REACHED OUT END QUOTE FOR WILLIAM ALOISIO, ROCCO DEGRAZIO AND

ROSS PRIO RE POSSIBLE REASONS FOR BEATING INFLICTED UPON HIM RECENTLY,

END PAGE ONE

REC 81 92-3/7L-179

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEDOLID

AS APR 13 1961

HEREIN IS• UNCLASSIFIED

DÄTE 6•6-84 BY SPSKJG

Es

381

APRI

I Staffeld.

DocId: 32307820 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWÓ

WITH NEGATIVE RESUS.

STATED HE WAS CONTACTF BY THREE PERSONS

• WHOM HE DECLINED TO IDENTIFY BUT WHOM HE DESCRIBED AS QUOTE'

MEN END QUOTE, AT HOME SEVERAL DAYS AGO. THESE MEN DENIED THAT THE

SYNDICATE WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE BEATINE, HOWEVER, ADVISED HIM

THAT AS OF THAT MOMENT HE WAS QUOTE OUT OF BUSINESS END QUAFE.

MURRAY STATED HE INTENDS TO CONTINUE OPERATING HORSEBOOK ON SNEAK

BASIS IN SPITE OF POSSIBLE REPERCUSSIONS• MURRAY STATED THAT THE

COST OF OPERATING A GAMBLING SPOT IN CHICAGO LIMITS AT PRESENT TIME

IS ALMOST PROHIBITIVE FOR OPERATORS, WHO FEEL THEY MUST STAY IN

BUSINESS AT LEAST UNTIL QUOTE HEAT END QUOTE DIES OUT. SAID THAT NET

TAKE FOR HORSEBOOK PARLOR IN CHICAGO NOW AVERAGES NOT MORE THAN

ONZ HUNDRED DOLLARS PER DAY, AFTER DEDUCTIONS FOR POLICE PAYOFF,

FIC. THIS SITUATION DOES NOT APPLY SO MUCH IN COUNTY, HOWEVER, AND

SYNDICATE CONTINUES TO ENJOY A QUOTE GOOD RELATIONSHIP END QUOTE WITH

SHERIFF/S OFFICE AND SOME STATE POLICE UNITS• CHICAGO INFORMANT

ADVISED THIS DATE HAS NOT SEEN GIANCANA AT ARMORY LOUNGE OF LATE,

HOWEVER, NOTICED CONSIDERABLE ACTIVITY THERE, SAW BUTCH BLASI, AND

FURNISHED LICENSE NUMBERS OF VEHICLES, ONE OF WHICH IS ANTHONY

ACCARDO/S• INVESTIGATION CONTINUING. ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

END AND ACK PLSO

9-29 PM OK FBI WA RAC

ARE YOU HOLDING

YES H GO AHEAD

WTWM

DocId: 32307820 Page 3

---

