# docid-32199791

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10274-10026

RECORD_SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 62-116395-422

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 06/24/1975

PAGES: 17

SUBJECT:

CC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

11/06/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32199791

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NEGTIONJ

197

NR D10 MM CODE

14:14 PM URGENT

JUNE 24, 1975 CLS

TO DIRECTOR (62-116395)

FROM MIAMI (66-3346)'

(RUC)

TAP

SECRET

ATTENTIONS

Assoc.

Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adr

Dep.-A.D.-1nv.

Aist." Dir.:

Admit.

Comp.

Syst.

Ext. Affairs

TELETY

BA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Files & Com. -

* Gen. Inv.

Identr

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

Inspection

Intell.

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION aboratory

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

Plan. & Eval

17. PAGES

K

9-10-98

Spec. Inv. -

Training

Legal Coun. w

At INPORMATION CONTAINED

•hone Rah

PARAIN ID UNCLASSITLED SACETA

MERE SHOWS ORSEMISES.

SA WaD, GREGAR

SENSTUDY 1975, BUDED JUNE 24, 1975.

Elegan

RE BUREAU TELETYPE JUNE 18, 1975, AS ABOVE.

THE FILES OF THE MIAMI OFFICE CONTAIN THE FOLLOWING

INFORMATION ON "MAIL SURVEILLANCE" BY OR ON BEHALF OF THE

FBI FROM JANUARY 1, 1960 10

THE PRESENT TIME.

(1) MAIL OPENING OR MAIL INTERCEPT.

ON/JANUARY 2, 1963; MIAMI/BEGAN SCREENING AIRMAIL TO [SJ

CUBA EMANATING FROM PUERTO RICO IN CONNECTION WITH THE

CASE CAPTIONED "PENETRATE JESPIO - CUBA," BUFILE BUFILE (5]

<

67842J OFFICE OF ORIGIN

SAN JUAN 65-398,| MIAMI (65-2940J [SJ

ON FEBRUARY 11, 1963, MIAMI BEGAN SCREENING SUCH MAIL:

EMANATING

FROM MIAMI IN CONNECTION WITH THE CASE CAPTIONED JES

ORIGIN MIAMI (65-2945-J(5]

IN ORDER TO FACILITATE DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATIONIE JUL 25 1975

ON THE SCREENING OF THIS MAIL, MIAMI OPENED A SEPARATE FILE

+2719851498 nde

END PAGE ONE

CLASSIFIED BY S668 SL/mde

REASON:

8.4 JUL 2 9 1975

5

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE SECREN

DocId: 32199791 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO: (618-3346)

SECRET

CAPTIONED, "JOE SURVEY, ESPIONAGE - CUBA, " MIAMI 65-29590;

; AND

(5))

THIS SOURCE WAS ASSIGNED (SYMBOL NUMBER CSMM 921-S IS J

THE PURPOSE OF THE JOE SURVEY WAS TO LOCATE CLANDESTINE

COMMUNCATIONS THROUGH THE USE OF CERTAIN INDICATORS AND

DROP ADDRESSES ON MAIL TO CUBA, AND TO IDENTIFY THE

COMMUNICATION AS BEING ONE DIRECTED BY AN ILLEGAL AGENT

THROUGH ITS CONTENTS AND

WRITING CHARACTERISTICS.

THIS MAIL WAS INTERCEPTED IN A ROOM FORMERLY OCCUPIED

BY THE POSTAL INSPECTORS AT THE BISCAYNE ANNEX POST OFFICE,

MIAMI. POSTAL EMPLOYEES WOULD BRING THE APPROPRIATE MAIL

BAGS TO THIS ROOM, WHERE MIAMI AGENTS WOULD REVIEW IT,

LOOKING FOR SOME 50 DROP ADDRESSES IN CUBA, REBIND THE MAIL.

IN BUNDLES, AND PLACE IT BACK IN THE MAIL BAGS.

THIS MAIL CONSISTED PRIMARILY OF LETTERS CONTAINING

PERSONAL CORRESPONDENCE WITH SOME 12, DOD TO 20, DOO LETTERS

BEING REVIEWED DAILY.

THE JOE SURVEY ENDED ON JULY 21, 1966. THE NUMBER

OF AGENTS UTILIZED RANGED FROM FOUR TO TWENTY DEPENDING ON

THE AMOUNT OF MAIL AND WHETHER A SPECIAL SEARCH WAS NEEDED

BASED ON INFORMATION FROM BUREAU SOURCE SIX AGENT TIME (S

SPENT WAS APPROXIMATELY GO MAN HOURS Á WEEK.

AGENTS REVIEWING THIS MAIL WERE FROM THE SECURITY

END PAGE TWO

DocId: 32199791 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAGE THREE (66-3346)

SECRET

SQUAD AND THE FOLLOWING

SPECIAL AGENTS INTERCEPTED MAIL

AT BISCAYNE ANNEX AT VARIOUS TIME DURING THE PERIOD OF

THE SURVEY:

JOHN BARRON; EDWARD J. DAHL; GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.,:

WILLIAM E. DOWLING; JAMES H. DOWNING; WILLIAM MAYO DREW,

JR.; ARNOLD C. DUQUETTE; ROBERT JAMES DWYER; CHARLES W.

EDMISTON; THOMAS ERRION; MAURICE F. FARABEE; LAWRENCE

FELDHAUS, CLARENCE P. GRAHAM;, ERNEST HARRISON; JAMES D•

HAYES; JAMES C. HOLMES; MELVIN C. JENSEN; SAMUEL W. JONES;

JOSEPH P. MC CANN; JOHN E. MC HUGH; JOHN el' MATTIMORE;

JOHN C. MENTON; PETER J. NERO; JAMES J. O'CONNOR; RAYMOND L.

O 'KELLY; EUGENE L. PAYNE; LEON PRIOR; LEMAN L• STAFFORD, JR.;

WILLIAM W. STEVENS; ROBERT G. STRONG; EDWIN L. SWEET •

• WHEN A DROP ADDRESS WAS NOTED ON AN ENVELOPE, THIS

PIECE OF MAIL WAS HAND CARRIED AND LATER SENT BY MAIL,

PURSUANT TO BUREAU INSTRUCTIONS, TO THE FBI LABORATORY FOR

EXAMINATION FOR SECRET WRITING AND MICRODOTS. IN EACH CASE,

AFTER THE LETTER WAS EXAMINED, IT WAS THEN PLACED BACK IN

THE NORMAL FLOW OF MAIL AT BISCAYNE ANNEX DESTINED FOR

CUBA •

AUTHORITY TO HAND DELIVER LETTERS TO THE LABORATORY

CAME FROM BUREAU SUPERVISORS WILLIAM A. BRANNIGAN, OTHO EZELL,

END PAGE THREE

DocId: 32199791 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PAGE FOUR (66-3346)

SECRET

AND INSPECTOR DON MOORE.

DURING THE PERIOD THE JOE SURVEY WAS IN EFFECT,

APPROXIMATELY 4, DD LETTERS WERE OPENED EITHER BY. THE

FBI LABORATORY OR THE MIAMI OFFICE, RELATING TO CUBAN,

INTELLIGENCE MATTERS. OF THIS AMOUNT, THERE WERE, 50 LETTERS

IN 1963 AND 18 LETTERS IN 1964, WHICH WERE DETERMINED TO

CONTAIN SECRET INK MESSAGES, EITHER ON THE LETTER OR ON THE

ENVELOPE •

THE MAIL INTERCEPTED AT BISCAYNE ANNEX WHICH WAS

OPENED AT THE MIAMI OFFICE WAS OPENED IN A SPECIAL CHAMFERING:

ROOM BY THE FOLLOWING SPECIAL AGENTS:

JAMES D. HAYES, WILLIAM E. DOWLING, WILLIAM W. STEVENS,

GEORGE E • DAVIS, JR., WILLIAM G. FRIEDEMANN.

THOSE LETTERS OPENED AT THE MIAMI OFFICE WHICH WERE IN

THE SPANISH LANGUAGE WERE TRANSLATED BY MRS. SOPHIA Y.

SALIBA AND MISS ELEANORE M. SCHOENBERGER •

(2)

MAIL COVERS PHYSICALLY CONDUCTED BY FBI EMPLOYEES.

THERE WERE NO KNOWN INSTANCES.

WHERE MIAMI FBI EMPLOYEES

PHYSICALLY CONDUCTED A. MAIL COVER ALONE OR IN COOPERATION

WITH POSTAL SERVICE EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN AS INCIDENTAL TO

THE REVIEW OF MAIL IN THE JOE SURVEY.

(3) DOCUMENTS AND MEMORANDA ON MAIL OPENINGS, INTERCEPTS •

END PAGE FOUR

SCURET

DocId: 32199791 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PAGE FIVE (66-3346)

SECRET

AND COVERS IDENTIFIED

ABOVE •

PENETRATE

ESPIONAGE - CUBAS CS]

PENETRATE WAS THE BUREAU CODE NAME FOR A CUBAN (S)

INTELLIGENCE AGENT IN PUERTO RICO.

ALL OF THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENTS WERE DISSEMINATED UNDER

THE ABOVE CAPTION:

BUREAU AIRTEL TO SAN JUAN, OCTOBER 29, 1962, REQUESTING

SAN JUAN CONSIDER FEASIBILITY OF CHECKING MAIL COMING

FROM PUERTO RICO TO CUBA.

• BUREAU AIRTEL TO SAN JUAN, NOVEMBER

3, 1962, CONCERNING

BUREAU DECISION TO HOLD IN ABEYANCE CHECKING OF THIS

MAIL.

SAN JUAN TELETYPE TO BUREAU, NOVEMBER 2, 1962, CONCERNING

A WAICH LIST OF SUSPECTED MAIL GOING TO CUBA.

BUREAU RADIOGRAM TO SAN JUAN, NOVEMBER 7, 1962, REQUESTING

MIAMI TO CONTACT POST OFFICE ON FEASIBILITY OF CHECKING MAIL

FROM PUERTO RICO TO CUBA VIA MIAMI.

SAN JUAN TELETYPE TO BUREAU, NOVEMBER 1D, 1962,

REQUESTING MIAMI TO DETERMINE FROM POST OFFICE THE NUMBER

OF MAIL DISPATCHES FROM MIAMI TO CUBA•

BUREAU AIRTEL TO MIAMI NOVEMBER 8, 1962, ON DESIRABILITY

OF AGENTS RATHER THAN POSTAL EMPLOYEES CHECKING THIS MAIL • .

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU, NOVEMBER 13, 1962, REQUESTING

END PAGE FIVE

DocId: 32199791 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PAGE SIX (66-3346) I

SECRET

BUREAU TO CONTACI CHIEF POSTAL INSPECTOR, WASHINGTON,

D.C., ON CHECKING MAIL AT MIAMI. .

BUREAU AIRTEL TO SAN JUAN, NOVEMBER 21, 1962, ADVISING

FBI LABORATORY SHOULD PROCESS ANY LETTERS SENT BY(PENETRATE] (S)

FROM PUERTO RICO TO CUBA..

SAN JUAN TELETYPE TO BUREAU, NOVEMBER 23, 1962, ON

TRANSPORTING SUSPECTED. MAIL VIA THE AIRLINES.

BUAIRIEL TO SAN JUAN DECEMBER 4, 1962, ON BUREAU CONTACT

WITH CHIEF POSTAL INSPECTOR H.B. MONTAGUE•

BUREAU TELETYPE TO MIAMI DECEMBER 1D, 1962, ON

MIAMI AGENTS PERSONALLY HANDLING SCREENING OF MAIL.

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU, DECEMBER 13, 1962, ON CONIACT

WITH POSTAL INSPECTOR E.M. CAMPBELL ON METHOD OF SCREENING

THIS MAIL•

NEW YORK AIRTEL TO BUREAU DECEMBER 12, 1962, ON SIGNIFICANT

CLANDESTINE INDICATORS WHEN REVIEWING THIS MAIL.

SAN JUAN AIRTEL TO MIAMI DECEMBER 13, 1962, ON. METHOD

PENETRATE USED TO SIGNIFY INVISIBLE WRITING IN A LETTER.

BUREAU AIRTEL TO MIAMI DECEMBER 21, 1962, AUTHORIZING

• MIAMI TO SCREEN MAIL FROM PUERTO RICO TO CUBA. ALSO AUTHORIZ-

ING SPECIAL AGENTS GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR., AND WILLIAM G. FRIEDE-

MANN TO HANDLE INITIAL INSPECTION OF COMMUNICATIONS BEFORE

END PAGE SIX

DocId: 32199791 Page 7

---

## Page 8

PAGE SEVEN, (66-3346) T

P

SECRET

SENT TO FBI LABORATORY AND

SETS OUT METHOD OF TRANSMITTAL

TO LABORATORY.

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU DECEMBER 28, 1962, ON MIAMI

ARRANGEMENTS WITH LOCAL POSTAL AUTHORITIES TO IMPLEMENT

SCREENING SURVEY.

BUREAU AIRTEL TO MIAMI, JANUARY 3, 1963, REQUESTING

NAMES OF MIAMI AGENTS WHO HAVE RECEIVED SPECIALIZED TRAINING

IN PROCESSING MAIL.

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU JANUARY 7, 1963, ON MIAMI

AGENTS WHO HAVE RECEIVED CHAMFERING TRAINING.

SAN JUAN TELETYPE TO BUREAU JANUARY 1D, 1963, WITH NEW..

DROP ADDRESSES IN CUBA FOR MIAMI MAIL PROCESSING.

BUREAU RADIOGRAM TO SAN JUAN JANUARY 24, 1963, ON. FBI

LABORATORY PROCESSING SUSPECTED LETTER RECEIVED FROM

MIAMI MAIL SURVEY.

SAN JUAN RADIOGRAM TO MIAMI JANUARY 25, 1963, ON NEW LETTER

DROP OF(PENETRATE IN CUBA.

BUREAU RADIOGRAM TO SAN JUAN JANUARY 3D, 1963,.

AUTHORIZING 30 DAY MAIL COVER ON RIOS MORALES, HIMENEZ VEGA,

AND MUJICA.

NEW YORK AIRTEL TO BUREAU JANUARY 3D, 1963, SETTING

OUT INDICATORS ON ENVELOPES TO ASSIST MIAMI IN IDENTIFYING

END PAGE SEVEN

DocId: 32199791 Page 8

---

## Page 9

PAGE EIGHT' (66-3346) T

P

SECRET

MAIL FROM ILLEGAL AGENTS •

BUREAU RADIOGRAM. TO SAN JUAN FEBRUARY 14, 1963,

CONTAING NEW CUBAN DROP ADDRESSES OF (PENETRATE.] (5)

BUREAU AIRTEL TO SAN JUAN, FEBRUARY 28, 1963, ON

FEASIBILITY OF OBTAINING ACCESS TO CUBAN COURIERS BAGGAGE

OR DIPLOMATIC POUCHES TO DETERMINE CUBAN MAIL DROP IN NEW

YORK CITY.

BUREAU AIRTEL TO MIAMI MARCH 28, 1963, ADVISING NO

SECRET WRITING OR MICRODOTS ON SUSPECTED LETTER SENT TO

LABORATORY.

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU MAY 17, 1963, ADVISING THAT MIAMI

IS NOT SCREENING ANY MAIL COMING FROM CUBA.

SAN JUAN LETTER TO BUREAU FEBRUARY 23, 1965, REQUESTING

MIAMI TO EXTEND JOE SURVEY TO COVER INCOMING MAIL FROM CUBA

TO PUERTO RICO AND OUTGOING MAIL PUERTO RICO TO CUBA.

MIAMI AIRIEL TO BUREAU APRIL 2, 1965, ADVISING THAT

MIAMI POSTAL INSPECTOR E.M. CAMPBELL BELIEVES THAT SCREENING

INCOMING MAIL FROM CUBA FOR PUERTO RICO WOULD PRESENT

SECURITY PROBLEM AND ADD APPROXIMATELY 17,000 PIECES OF

MAIL TO THE SCREENING DAILY.

BUREAU LETTER TO SAN JUAN APRIL 19, 1965, CONCURRING

WITH MIAMI RECOMMENDATION THAT JOE SURVEY COVERAGE CANNOT

END PAGE EIGHT

DocId: 32199791 Page 9

---

## Page 10

PAGE NINE. (MM 66-3346) T

PISECRET

BE SECURELY EXPANDED AT THIS TIME AND INSTRUCTING SAN JUAN

TO SUPPLY MIAMI WITH THE LIST OF DROP ADDRESSES IN CUBA.

SAN JUAN LETTER TO MIAMI MAY 17, 1965, ADVISING WATCH

LIST OF DROP NAMES AND ADDRESSES IN CUBA NOT BEING FURNISHED

- DUE TO LARGE NUMBER OF WATCH LIST.

(FOXTROT, ESPIONAGE - CUBA: (5]

FOXTROT JAS THE BUREAU CODE NAME FOR A CUBAN INTELLIGNCE (SJ

AGENT

, IN MIAMI, INVESTIGATION WAS INITIATED ON THE BASIS

OF INFORMATION FROMBUREAU SOURCE & ALL OF THE FOLLOWING (S J

DOCUMENIS WERE DISSMEINATED UNDER THE ABOVE CAPTION:

BUREAU AIRTEL TO NEW YORK DECEMBER 12, 1962, ON NEW NAMES

AND ADDRESSES IN CUBA IN THE EVENT MIAMI INSTRUCTED TO

INSTITUTE COVERAGE OF MAIL. FROM PUERTO RICO TO CUBA.

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU JANUARY 15, 1963, ADVISING INFORMA-

TION IN BUREAU LET DECEMBER 12g 1962, INCLUDED IN MIAMI MAIL

COVERAGE IN PENETRATE CASE. (SJ

MIAMI TELETYPES TO BUREAU JAUNARY 25 AND JANUARY 31,

1963, REQUESTING AUTHORITY TO SCREEN MIAMI TO CUBA MAIL,

AND ADVISING THAT MIAMI POSTAL INSPECTOR CAMPBELL ADVISED

ADDITIONAL COVERAGE WOULD CAUSE NO BURDEN OR INTERRUPT POST

OFFICE OPERATIONS.

BUREAU TALETYPE TO MIAMI FEBRUARY 4, 1963, ADVISING

END PAGE NINE

DocId: 32199791 Page 10

---

## Page 11

PAGE TEN

• (MM 66-3346) I

oXp

SECRET

CHIEF® POSTAL INSPECTOR H.B. MONTAGUE, WASHINGTON, D.C.,

GAVE APPROVAL TO COVERAGE OF MAIL GOING FROM MIAMI TO CUBA.

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU FEBRUARY 11, 1963, ADVISING

JOE SURVEY COVERAGE BEGAN FEBRUARY 11, 1963.

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU FEBRUARY. 12 # 1963, ESTIMATING

12,080 PIECES OF MAIL BEING REVIEVED DAILY INFOXTROT)NDES]

(PENETRATE) CASES. (5]

BUREAU RADIOGRAM IO MIAMI MARCH 12, 1963, ON FEASIBILITY

OF JOE SURVEY SCREENING MAIL ARRIVING IN MIAMI FROM NEW

YORK CITY FOR A LIMITED PERIOD IN EFFORT TO OBTAIN LETTER

CONTAINING PHOTOGRAPH AND MONEY TO BE SENT FOXTROTTFROM CUBA (SJ

IN ORDER IO IDENTIFY (FOXIROT J {S]

MIAMI TELETYPE TO BUREAU MARCH 13, 1963, ADVISING LOCAL

POSTAL INSPECTOR APPROVED AND REQUESTING CHIEF POSTAL

INSPECTOR MONTAGUE BE CONTACTED FOR OFFICIAL APPROVAL IN

SCREENING NEW YORK MAIL:

BUREAU TELETYPE TO MIAMI MARCH 14, 1963, ADVISING

CLEARANCE OBTAINED FROM MONTAGUE FOR A TEMPORARY PERIOD TO

SCREEN THE NEW YORK MAIL.

BUREAU TELETYPE TO NEW YORK, MARCH 13, 1963, ON FEASIBILITY

OF SCREENING MAIL FROM CUBAN MISSION TO THE UNITED NATIONS:

IN ORDER TO IDENTIFY (FOXTROT] ES]

MIAMI TELETYPE TO BUREAU MARCH 17, 1963, ADVISING THAT

SLIGHTLY OVER ONE MILLION PIECES OF MAIL FROM NEW YORK

END PAGE TEN:

DocId: 32199791 Page 11

---

## Page 12

¡PAGE ELEVEN: EMM 66-3346)

TOP SECRET

AREA BEING REVIEWED DAILY.

MIAMI TELETYPE TO BUREAU MARCH 15, 1963, ADVISING. MAIL

COVER TO BE PLACED ON FOXTROT, UACB; POSTAL INSPECTORS WILL [SJ

PROVIDE THE RETURN ADDRESSES ON THIS MAIL.

BUREAU AIRTEL TO MIAMI MARCH 28, 1963, ADVISING SECRET

WRITING FOUND ON A LETTER SUBMITIED PROM JOE SURVEY•

MIAMI AIRIEL TO BUREAU MARCH: 25, 1963, INDICATING MAIL

COVER PLACED ON SON OF FOXTROT, POSTAL INSPECTORS WILL (SJ

FURNISH RETURN ADDRESSES.

BUREAU TELETYPE TO MIAMI MARCH 29, 1963, INDICATING

THAT A LETTER CONTAINING SECRET WRITING FROM FOXTROIMAY (5]

HAVE BEEN PROCESSED PRIOR TO ITS RECEIPT BY LABORATORY.

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU APRIL I, 1963, INDICATING

MAIL COVERS ON FOXTROT) AND (SON OF FOXTROT WERE UNPRODUCTIVE. (5)

MIAMI TELETYPE TO BUREAU APRIL 3, 1963, ADVISING

LETTERS OR(FOXTROT WERE NOI MADE AVAILABLE TO ANY OTHER (SJ

PERSON OR AGENCY ACCORDING TO POSTAL INSPECTORS.

BUREAU TELETYPES APRIL 12 AND APRIL 23, 1963, ADVISING

SECRET WRITING CONIAINED IN A LETTER AND TWO RELIGIOUS

PAMPHLETS SENT BY (FOXTROT.J (SJ

END PAGE ELEVEN

SHUACE

DooId: 32199791

Page 12

---

## Page 13

PAGE, TWELVE CMM 66-3346 OR SECRET

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU APRIL 29, 1963, CONTAINING THE

FIRST OF A SERIES OF WEEKLY SUMMARIES ON THE FOXTROT J (5)

INVESTIGAT 10 N.

BUREAU AIRTEL TO MIAMI, MAY 2, 1963, ASKING FEASIBILITY

OF USING MAILS RATHER THAN AGENT PERSONNEL IN SUBMITTING

LETTERS OF FOXTROT) TO LABORATORY. (S.J

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU MAY 6, 1963, ON ARRANGEMENIS

MADE WITH POST OFFICE IN SCREENING MAIL AND RECOMMENDING

AGENT PERSONNEL BE USED IN TRANSMITTING THURSDAY INTERCEPTIONS •

BUREAU AIRTEL TO MIAMI MAY 16, 1963, ADVISING MIAMI TO

USE THE MAIL IN FORWARDING LETTERS OF POXIROTITO FBI LABORATORY, (SJ

EXCEPT FOR THURSDAY INTERCEPTIONS•

BUREAU AIRTEL TO MIAMI JUNE 24, 1963, AUTHORIZING 30

DAY MAIL COVER ON FRANCISCO GUASCH A SUSPECTED NAIL DROP (S],

OF. FOXTROT J (SJ

BUREAU AIRTEL TO MIAMI JUNE 27, 1963, ADVISING THAT

SECRET WRITING WAS FOUND ON THE ENVELOPE CONTAINING A LETTER

OF FOXTROT.J (5]

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU JULY 1, 1963, ADVISING MAIL

COVER PLACED ON SUSPECTED MAIL DROP OF CFOXTROTJIN MIAMI. (S]

BUREAU LETTER TO MIAMI JULY 12, 1963, ADVISING IT WAS

NOT NECESSARY FOR MIAMI TO INFORM BUREAU WHEN INTERCEPTED

END PAGE TWELVE

DocId: 32199791 Page 13

---

## Page 14

PAGE THIRTEEN (MM 86-3346) TOP SEGREI

LETTERS HAVE BEEN RETURNED TO NORMAL MAIL FLOW AT MIAMI.

BUREAU AIRTEL TO MIAMI AUGUST

Do 196o, SeTtING OUT

GUIDELINES IN DISCUSSING FOXTROT JESSE WITH MIAMI CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY COU

MIAMI LETTER TO BUREAU

SEPTEMBER 9, 1963, REPORTING

RESULTS OF MAIL COVER ON ERANCISCO GUASCH, WHICH WAS PROVIDED (S

BY POSTAL INSPECTOR CAMPBELL.

BUREAU AIRTEL TO MIAMI SEPTEMBER 19, 1963, ON FEASIBILITY

OF CHECKING POST OFFICE BOXES FOR MIAL DROP OF EOXTROTJIN (SJ

MIAMI.

- BUREAU AIRTEL TO MIAMI SEPTEMBER 26% 1963, GIVING

AUTHORITY FOR SIX MONTHS MAIL COVER ON FRANCISCO GUASCH ESJ

BUREAU AIRTEL TO MIAMI OCTOBER 3, 1963, POINTED OUT

THAT SECRET WRITING WAS FOUND ON TWO SHEETS OF PAPER SUBMITTED

WITH A BLANK LETTER OF (FOXIROT.J (SJ

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU OCTOBER 19, 1963, ADVISING THAT

THROUGH ARRANGEMENTS WITH POSTAL INSPECTORS ROG. WOLF, A

LETTER FROM FOXTROTJIN A POST OFFICE BOX USED AS A DROP, WAS (5]

OBTAINED AND FORWARDED TO LABORATORY.

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU OCTOBER 14, 1963, ADVISING

POSTAL INSPECTOR MADE AVAILABLE ANOTHER LETTER OF (FOXGIROT) ESJ

FROM A MAIL DROP IN MIAMI•

END PAGE THIRTEEN

SECRET

DocId: 32199791 Page 14

---

## Page 15

PAGE FOURTEEN (MM 66-3346) T

P SECRET.

MIAMI LETTER TO BUREAU OCTOBER 21# 1963, WITH RESULTS

OF MAIL COVER ON A SUSPECTED INTELLIGENCE AGENT WHICH WERE

PROVIDED BY POSTAL INSPECTOR SAL DRAGO.

BUREAU AIRTEL TO MIAMI NOVEMBER. 13, 1963, ON ADMINISTRATIVE

HANDLING OF INTERCEPTED MAIL

SENT TO. FBI LABORATORY.

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU DECEMBER 5, 1963, RECOMMENDING

SCREENING OF MAIL FROM MIAMI TO MEXICO, APPORXIMATELY

5, DOD LETTERS, A DAY WOULD BE INVOLVED •

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU NOVEMBER 21, 1963, ADVISING A

"MANILA ENVELOPE MAILED. FROM NEW YORK CITY INTERCEPTED AND

BELIEVED TO CONTAIN A BOOK AND MONEY FOR FOXIROT. JES]

NEW YORK AIRTEL TO BUREAU NOVEMBER 26, 1963, INDICATING

THAT A PORTION OF THE MONEY FURNISHED TO (FOXTROT) FOUND IN (S]

AFOREMENT IONED BOOK ORIGINATED FROM SOVIET FUNDS USED IN

THEIR CLANDESTINE OPERATION•

MEMORANDUM OF SA WILLIAM E. DOWLING DATED DECEMBER 2,

1963, CONTAINING COMPILATION OF AGENT TIME SPENT ON FOXTROT (S]

CASE.

BUREAU LETTER TO MIAMI DECEMBER 5, 1963, REQUESTING

APPROPRIATE COVERAGE BY MIAMI OF A POST OFFICE BOX USED AS

A MAIL DROP BY FOXIROT JES]

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU DECEMBER

14, 1963, ADVISING OF A

END PAGE FOURTEEN

DocId: 32199791 Page 15

---

## Page 16

PAGE FIFTEEN (MM 66-3346) T

P SECRET

LETTER WHICH FOXIROT MAILED

AT A MAIL BOX AND WHICH WAS (S)

FURNISHED BY POSTAL INSPECTOR E .M. CAMPBELL.

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU DECEMBER 18, 1963, ADVISING

THREE LETTERS WHICH FOXTROT)MAILED AT MAIN POST OFFICE (S]

FURNISHED BY POSTAL INSPECTOR CAMPBELL .

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU JANUARY. 27, 1964, RECOMMENDING

THAI (CIA AT MEXICO CITY, MEXICO CONTINUE SCREENING MAIL FOR L

MEXICO

AS, SOME OF THIS MAIL MAY BYPASS JOE SURVEY.

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU FEBRUARY 3, 1964, ADVISING OF

ARRANGEMENTS MADE WITH POSTAL INSPECTOR CAMPBELL TO REVIEW

MAIL GOING TO A SUSPECTED DROP ADDRESS OF FOXIROT IN (S]

MIAMI AREA.

MIAMI MEMORANDUM DATED JUNE 2, 1964, SUMMARIZING

BACKGROUND AND ACTIVITIES OF FO XIROT|THROUGH 1963, INCLUDING (SJ

SECRET INK MESSAGES. LOCATED IN HIS. LETTERS.

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU JUNE 10, 1964, REINSTITUTING

TEMPORARY SCREENING OF ALL MAIL FROM NEW YORK, NEW. YORK AREA

TOr CUBA •

MIAMI MEMORANDUM DATED SEPTEMBER 15, 1964, SUMMARIZING

BACKGROUND AND ACTIVITIES OF (FOXTROTJIN 1964. (S]

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU JANUARY 13, 1965, FORWARDING

A LETTER OF (FOXTROI MAILED AT A MAIL BOX AND PROVIDED BY (S]

END PAGE FIFTEEN

DocId: 32199791 Page 16

---

## Page 17

PAGE SIXTEEN (MM 66-3346) T

SECRET

POSTAL INSPECTOR CAMPBELL •

BUREAU AIRTEL TO MIAMI SEPTEMBER 3, 1965, REQUESTING

INTERVIEW OF (FOXTROT)BE CONSIDERED. IN VIEW OF LACK OF (SJ

INFORMATION INDICATING HE IS ACTIVELY ENGAGED IN INTELLIGENCE

ACTIVITY AND HOW INFORMATION FROM JOE SURVEY CAN BE USED

DURING INERVIEW •

MIAMI MEMORANDUM DATED SEPTEMBER 15, 1965, SUMMARIZING

BACKGROUND AND ACTIVITIES OF FOXTROT) IN 1965. (5)

MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU OCTOBER 14, 1966, REFLECTING

JOE SURVEY WAS DISCONTINUED ON JULY 21, 1966, AT THE DIRECTION

OF THE BUREAU •

(4) BUREAU ASKED IF MM 89D-S RESULTED FROM INTERCEPTION

OF MAIL.

MM 89Q-S WAS NOT INVOLVED IN THE INTERCEPT OF MAIL •

THE BUREAU MAY. HAVE REFERENCE TO CSMM 389-S ASTERISK,| MIAMI FILE (SJ

C3ACSE1 BUREAL AUTHORIZED ACTIVITY WHICH BEGAN ON MARCH 150

1962, AND ENDED AUGUST 1, 1966. THIS OPERATION PHOTOGRAPHED

MATERIAL FROM DIPLOMATIC POUCHES, HAVANA, CUBA TO NEW YORK J (S]

AND HAVANA TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY, OTTAWA, CANADA, WHICH PASSED

THROUGH MIAMI VIA PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS, (S)

INFORMATION FROM CSMM 809-S ASTERISK, WAS DISSEMINATED UNDER (5]

THE CAPTION, "FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA," BUFILE

END PAGE SIXTEEN

DocId: 32199791 Page 17

---

## Page 18

PAGE SEVENTEEN (MM 66-3346) I

OP SECRET

189-12-210, MIAMI FILE 105-1747.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON ESMM 809-S ASTERISK, IS NOT BEING [SJ

SUBMITTED AS IT DOES NOT INVOLVE MAIL EMANATING IN THE

U.S. OR PUERTO RICO.

TO SECRET, CLASSIFIED BY 7129, XEDS 2 AND 3, INDEFINITE •

END

HOLD

PMJ FBI HQ ACK

stunt

DocId:32199791

Page

18

---

