Cc Cc

FD-263 (Rev. $91-59) - Z.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE | OFFICE OF ORIGIN TOV 4 INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
TAMPA TAMPA 9 196 9/23 - 11/3/66
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY : TyreD BY
CHANG) SA JOHN A. AMBLER in
r RAFF ICANTE , JR., aka CHARACTER OF CASE
SamVAlbano,
Joga) Fernandez;
AR
| ie
Title being marked "changed" to reflect alias of J
SAM ALBANO as furnished by the Central Investigative Bureau,
New York City PD and alias JOSE FERNANDEZ as name used by /

RAFF ICANTE during September, 1966.

f

REFERENCES : i
Tampa report of SA JOHN A. AMBLER dated 10/7/66
Tampa airtesb to Bureau dated 10/12/66 and 11/4/66
Bureau letter to Tampa dated 10/12496° wel
New York teletypes to Bureau dated 0/6/66 and 10/28/66 Le

captioned ‘LA COSA NOSTRA"

Miami airtels to Tampa dated 10/14/66, 10/21/66, 10/28/66 (10)
Cleveland letter to Tampa dated 10/18/66 qo)
WFO airtel to San Francisco dated 10/21/66 (10)

VA New York City report of SA THOMAS M. DUFFIN dated 10/21/66

: captioned *LA COSA NOSTRA".

Atlanta airtel to Tampa dated 10/26/66 (10)

\ ae ee

i
arenes aaa <urwmnemerscewonow
| Copies Mal = F +
w- pureau (92-2781) (mes 2) 92-21% 1]
- USA, Tampa

2 - Cleveland (92-1269)

2 - Houston (92-310) :
* 3 - Miami (92-88) ae
4) (G.- USA, MM, Atta: WALLACE
pio JOHNSON, Departmental Attorney?
\e 2 - Tampa (92-1)

Dissemination Record ‘of Attached Keyport

Agency
Request Recd+

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

67 0EOT 966

Docld:32586314 Page 1



TP 92-1 : , : 7

ENCLOSURES .
TO BUREAU ae

Original and one copy of LHM characterizing

informants. used in attached report,
1

ADMINISTRATIVE

Information from records General Telephone Company
of Florida was made available m 10/31/66 by Mr. ALTON M.
BRYANT, hen Director, General Telephone Company of
Florida,

t couna (0 1457-PC advised SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR, on
10/31/ hat during the first week of June, CARLOS and 7

|
a
|
|
|
\

fr JOSEP) CELLO, together with their wives, wisited SANTO

Lb TRAFFICANTE, JR. at his Tampa, Florida, per his invitation, ie
PC stated that during this period CARLO} RCELLO and ~~ Hl
TRAFFICANTE had several lengthy priva: conversations. PC :

does not know what tock. place at these conferences, TRAFFICANTE
and MARCELLO did not settle whatever their problem was ae
ing this visit. ‘

ba a Over the July 4 weekend, SANTO TRAFFICANTE and |
-two of his close associates, names unknown, visited CARLOS
MARCELLO at his Churchill Farms estate. - During the weekend
MARCELLO. had a small private dinner party in honor of ° |

TRAFFIC: . At this din 1 iLLO,
ANTHON; RCELLO, PASQUALEATAR ; JO HIEMENTI, - :
Ut Chie. westigator.from. the f thice i
sf Attorney.’ s Office, JOSEP) and several

wAt ne: ’
Lae others, names unrécalle a ring thi OLiday weekend

several lengthy private conferences occurred between CARLOS
MARCELLO and SANTO TRAFFICANTE. PC stated that from .
MARCELLO’s attitude PC could tell that nothing was: settled
at these conferences,

8B :
COVER PAGE : |
|

|

| Docla:32586314 Page 2


TP 92-1

PC stated.that the secret nature“of these con-
ferences was impressed upon the PC because at Churchill
Farms MARCELLO and TRAFFICANTE walked out into the middle
of the fields behind the main house and sat for many hours,
Likewise, at TRAFFICANTE's home in Tampa, MARCELLO and
TRAFFICANTE sat alone in the back yard,

During. the past several weeks CARLOS MARCELLO has --
stated to the PC that the luncheon _at which he was arrested
in New York City was just that and that he would not have
been in attendance if. JOSEPH MARCELLO had not been so slow
in packing at their hotel, If they had left fifteen minutes
earlier than they did they would not have received the
invitation to the luncheon, MARCELLO stated that the really —
serious meeting in New York took place during the early
evening hours the day prior to his arrest and that the New
York Police would have “seen some real power” if they had
found the meeting the day before the arrest, ~

PC stated that MARCELLO is worried over TRAFFICANTE -

“and got into trouble with the New York people over TRAFFICANTE's

actions. PC stated that TRAFFICANTE wants to come into
Louisiana, PC does not’ know how TRAFFICANTE wishes to come

into Lowisiana; however, CARLOS MARCELLO is opposed to this; 7
as CARLOS feels that once TRAFFICANTE gets a foothold in
Louisiana it is the beginning of the end of CARLOS MARCELLO,
CARLOS MARCELLO. told PC that TRAFFICANTE knows "I only own
Jetferson and Orleans Parishes and I've never wanted to own
anything else". TRAFFICANTE wishes to come in in the rest

of the State; however, MARCELLO feels that this will be the

end of MARCELLO‘’s control of Jefferson and Orleans Parishes,

: - CARLOS MARCELLO told PC that TRAFFICANTE ‘presented
several problems occurring in this part of the country to -
“important people” in New York and elsewhere and created the
impression that CARLOS MARCELLO was to blame for these problems.
PC stated that the problem that TRAFFICANTE used to bring

this to a head was the HASKELL JONES problem, CARLOS MARCELLO,

c
COVER PAGE

Docld:32586314 Page 3


TP 92-1 i

told PC that TRAFFICANTE indicated to these p@ople that the
JONES problem was very serious and occurred in CARLOS
MARCELLO'’s own back yard.

INFORMANTS

The following listed informants were contacted by
SA JOHN A, AMBLER unless otherwise indicated or where identity
of contacting agent not known:
TP T-1 is TP. 120-c
TP T-2 is TP 274-C A

TP T-3 is Mrs. GEORGE HUBER, 528 N.E, 72nd Street, Miami (by
request), contacted by SA WENDELL W, HALL.

TP T-4 is Mrs.-EMILY CUCCIA, 531 N.E, 71st Street, Miami (by
request), contacted by SA WENDELL W. HALL.

TP T~5 is Mr, MATHEW BART, Valet Parking Service, Miami

International hatha (by request), contacted by SA WENDELL
W. HALL.

j TP T-6 is MM 1025-C, contacted by SA WENDELL W., HALL,

; TP T-~7 is MM 1165-C contacted by SA WENDELL W. HALL.

TP T-8 is TP 97-C ; i

TP T-9 is LV 101-PC, contacted by SA JAMES E, DOYLE

TP T-10 is LV 241-PC contacted by SA JAMES E. DOYLE

TP T=11 is NY 1839-C-TE

TP T-12 is Detective JOHN J, CUNNINGHAM (NA) Duval County SO

Jacksonville, Florida (by request), contacted by SA CHARLES
M,. BLALOCK,

D
COVER PAGE

Docld:32586314 Page 4


TP 92—1

TP-T=13
TP T-14
TP T-15
TP T-16
TP T-17
“TP T-18
“7p 7-19
TP T-20
TP T-21

TP T-22

TP T=23

is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is

is

New York
WICHMAN

is

PCI NICK SCAGLIONE

PCI CIRRO BEDAMI ‘

TP 148-C contacted by SA JOHN R, BRETT

PCI EDDIE BLANCO, contacted by SA JOHN R, BRETT
TP 41-c :

‘PCI GIULLERMO PORCEL

TP 280-C
PCI JOSE HERNANDEZ contacted by SA MICHAEL J, HALLY.
NY 4336-C-TE :

Detective THOMAS O'BRIEN, Central Investigative Bureau
City PD (by request) contacted by SA JOSEPHF.

5

Patrolman ED KUROLY, New York City PD (by request)

TP T-24 is Mr, -F, C, JERNIGAN, Florida. Beverage Department,
Tallahassee, Florida (by request)

TP T-25 is PCI PAT BORINO

TP T-26 is Mr. ALTON M. BRYANT, General Telephone Company of
Florida (by request)

Nn

TP T=-27 is Mr, HARRY WHITLOCK, Vice President, Capital National
Bank, Tampa (by request)

TP T-28 is TP 120-c’
.TP T-29 is WM 1181-PC contacted by SA HALL, -

E
OVER PAGE

Docld:32586314 Page 5



TP 92=1

: ni
' 3, Will conduct credit and criminal record checks
of NANCY L. PALA, 1128 Hardee Road, Coral Gables.

4, Will consider request ing Bureau authority to |

‘“-yeview toll call data on all. telephones beatae to EVARISTO

GARCIA VIDAL. Q

5. Will when recontacting JUDY SALVAT, apparent former
paramour of TRAFFICANTE, determine circumstances ’ surrounding
SALVAT’s obtaining residence at 657 West 34th, Hialeah, sold
to her on 7/20/61 by FRANK RAGANO for sum of $8, 500,

6. Will at Southern Bell determine identity of

subscriber to PL1-7884 as TRAFFICANTE when arrested Queens,

New York, indicated to interviewing police officers that
this was his Miami, Florida telephone number,

At HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA

1. Will obtain identity of subscriber to telephone
number 989- -4804, thereafter conduct credit and criminal
record checks and if such checks donot preclude feasibility
of same, will thereafter interview for association with
TRAFFICANTE,

TAMPA DIVISION
AT TAMPA, FLORIDA 7

1.° Will conduct credit and criminal record checks

’ of CARINA E, WILBY, 4309 Beechway Drive, registered owner -

of a 1961 Valiant whose occupant was observed to converse
with LONGO and TRAFFICANTE. Will thereafter, if deemed ad-
visable, interview. :

G
COVER PAGE.

| pocra:32586314 Page 6
