# docid-32303242

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10283-10254

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 165-17-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

KENNEDY, REGIS L.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/08/1962

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

SS, ASSOC, GAMBLING, INTV, CHAUVIN, ABEL JOHN, RACK

ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32303242

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NO 165-2

by a person known as VINCENT, which results originated

at the Rainbow Inn, 1125 Jefferson Highway. Informant

advised that this service was very poor.

On 3/15/62, PCI HOWARD D. BAUTSCH, advised that

he had

no additional information re the NOLA Printing

Company, moving to 2813 Jefferson Highway.

He stated

that he had not been

approached for race results from

Jefferson Downs, and if the services were offered, he

would not be interested.

Mr. CHANLER JOSEY, Special Agent, Southern Bell

Telephone Company, furnished the information from the

Southern Bell Telephone Company records.

On 5/7/62, Special Agent JOSEPH BRANDT, U. S.

Internal Revenue

Service, Intelligence Division, advised

that there was no additional activity regarding the

tax suit against the NOLA Printing Company. He advised

that they had paid the tax bill.

PCI RAYMOND ROLAND, on May 4, 1962, advised SA

REGIS L. KENNEDY that he knew of no wire service

disseminating race horse information in the New Orleans

area and that the NOLA Printing Company was not furnishing

race horse information to bookies in this area.

COVER

, PAGE

B*

DocId: 32303242

Page 2

---

