a
ae
<
i
) Date: 3-30-65
* To: ‘Director, FBI (Bufile : 92-6054 )
d é
Attention cine
egal Attache, Ottawa (+ 92-62 )
Character

ue
COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

Reference

BUlet 2-2-65.

| ?

Jt are the following communications received from the RCMP: Original and

a
¥ two copies of RCMP letter dated 3-26-65, together with three
aR copies of the enclosure thereto.

/®8 Remarks:

oy

Dissemination

[x]

May be made as received
May be made as indicated by-stamp on enclosure
|_| May not be made without further clearance with RO 4

Ge

Pail

al ‘of lobed:

Following offi¢ idtbe interested in receiving

f 7
M

HfL

New York (9242300)

Do not write in space below

“eh

Status with this, offices,

Loa. He 32

6 APR «dbf 1965

= A eer

i yialas
ae . - New York)
"108 tadro. Cnély

Daf

Lue.
dee!

ee

f yen’

BS APR Le 1965

Docld:32576574 Page 1


,ALL CORRESPONDENCE TO
BE AUDRESSED:

THE COMMISSIONER ad
ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE
OTTAWA 8 CANADA

YOUR NO.
VOTRE NO

OUR NO.
NOTRE N°

HQ=330-Q-1-3 (Vol. 2)

Mr. Moss Lee Innes,
c/o U.S. Embassy,
Ottawa, Ontario.

HEADQUARTERS ~ DIRECTION GENERALE

Re: La Cosa Nostra, Montreal,
: Canada \ at

TOUTE CORRESPONDANCE DOIT 5
ETRE ADRESSEE COMME SUIT:

LE COMMISSAIRE

GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU CANADA
OTTAWA 8, CANADA

OTTAWA 8, CANADA
March 26, 1965.

PROPERTY OF R.C.H.P. — THIS POLICE REPORT

18 SUPPLIED TO YOU BY THE R.C.M. POLICE FOR
INFORMATION OF YOUR DEPARTMENT ONLY. IT 15
NOT TO BE MADE KNOWN TO ANY OTHER AGENCY
‘OR PERSON WITHOUT THE WRITTEN PERMISSION OF,
THE R.C.M.Ps

Quebec ’

T

New York report of 26-Jan-65 on La..Cosa
Nostra _was referred to our Montreal office for their
‘comments and attached are copies of their euaaiaina dated

8-Mar-65 in this regard.
Regarding the information concerning Vic

2.
+ COTRONT 6 position as leader of the Montreal/ Group, since
the 1957 Appalachin Meeting, we have suspected that Vic

p78 - Vie fie
GHLABRIA 2 OAL

: COTRONI has been a member of
| that COTRONI has hed control

NY Ch ont
wig directing all major criminal
v \, fe" area and as a result derived

the "Mafia". Our opinion is
or played a major roll in

activities in the Montreal, CA AMD

an enormous financial benefit?

Doeld: 32576574 Page 2

This conclusion has been reached as a result of information
received from various sources, subsequent to the Appalachin’
Meeting, when it was disclosed that Vic COTRONI may have also
attended the Appalachin Meeting, but was one of several
persons who escaped apprehension.

3. Persons of importance who have had contact
or dealings with Vic COTRONI in the past and who we
consider could be part of the COTRONI organization are

as follows:

(1)

ia

Fran

RONI - FPS #648069, born_9-Sept- mtreal, OM

He is the brother “6f Vic and Guiseppe COTRONI
and reported to be an "enforcer" for the
protection and prostitution rackets in
Montreal. Reported to act as supervisor

for the Eastend Gang, assisted by one Joseph
COCCOLICHIO, referred to below, for the
COTRONI organization.

G2 bosy- 1027
ENCLOSURE, oe .

Si, arsmeasanauita aoe



rnemarmae SSS ae

NTED POLICE mwuaw \

“EN. C4330-Q-1-3
HQ-330-Q-1-3 (v.2))

15 SUPPLIED TO:

INFORMATION

NoT TO

OR PERSON WITHOUT
THE ROMS.

To AY OTHER AGENCY
RITTEN PERMISSION OF

1. Further to memo from H.Q. Assistant C.I.B. Officer
dated 12 FEB 65, requesting information relevant to the
involvement of the COTRONIS, GALENTE, GRECO, etc., with the
BONANNO family at this time, please be informed of the
, following. ecu

12 There exists a definite link between BONANNO and
“these other individuals. Joseph BONANNO Alias "BANANAS" FPS
No. 89110 is alleged to entered this country as early
as 1938. In 195) Carmi: ALENTH Alias "LILLO THE CIGAR" ,.
FPS No. 815013, reténtly’reported by Joseph V. ‘as an
\i=-inderboss to BONANNO, considered a top'U.3, hoodlum at the
time, took over thé Montreal Syndicate. He eontrolled
organized gambling, protection rackets, stock frauds, gam-.
bling, among other major crime specialties. He was known
to have dictated on policies relevant to the Syndicate's
operations.

: : {

a | “eA E vd
bed. ‘Up to this time, Frank alias "Fi 7 uy b :
“abs No. 389562, 1 knowi“Téeel he um, who had succeeded | 4

"Edge larryXDAVIS, following the latter's slaying in © {
1946 nown as strong arm man for GALENTE's newly formed 1
Log. genaédian Syndicate. He lost his job in 1955 and subsequently | 7
disappeared.mysteriously in 1956, PETRULA is reported to Hl qe
have had close associations with Harry SHIP, FPS.No. 4777, f 41>

a top.syndicate member and Luigi alias Louis GRECO FPS No. F
815813, then considered an enforcer for the syndicate... By k. §
1956 the vice syndicate controlled all forms of crime. .

he} It is at this juncture that Police opinions are

. the most conflicting and speculative. The chain of command
as presented earlier is generally accepted. Following PE-
TRULA's disappearance, one conjecture is that the city was

. divided into two distinct and separate groups, namely "The -.

“East End Gang" and "The West End Gang". Othersmaintain that
this division was never made at all in terms of area but
rather in relation to the type of crime committed.

k

Se Irrespective of the motivations, the city was .
Givided. Replacing PETRULA we find that Harry SHIP had. |
control of the West End with GRECO as his counterpart in
the East End. The West had the French Canadian and Jewish
elements whilst the East comprised mostly of Italians-and a
lesser number of French Speaking followérs. ‘This set-up was §

23- bo FY MRT sorry ¢

CONT'D ON PAGE 2. ©



Ssaeunaand auansnaas lenaneamenuner Siar seeeeeeryciecses ae

MP 61 ee + : aq a : : CONTINUATION C-237
an oe _ oes : ‘ wen . * REV. 15-2-63 °.

)

sO) vineent comkonr

‘| “@HIS SEP-UP WAS in evidence as late as.1961 when Vic COTRONI
1. FPS No. 183003 was reported as gradually taking over both

~, Hast and Veit. His brother, Frank COfRONI FPS No. 648069
with Giuseppe COCOLICCHIO FPS No. 758891 were responsible
for the East End. Similarly Peter ADAMO FPS No. 354597
and William COE FPS No. 3828), had control of the West End
mob also under Vic COTRONI. Louis GRECO's decisions, as
an enforcer were relegated to and acted upon by Vic COTRONI,
his chief Lieutenant, until the late 1960. At this time, an’
internal struggle was beginning to show between the East and
West factions. The Jewish element from the West were gra=
dually loosing ground and the COTRONI mob began showing cone [
« tempt. At this juncture, SHIP is shot at fron close range.
Ho was wounded in the legs=: and obviously it was only intene

jj 494 to scare him into submission rather than an attempt on)
Want diffe, Salomon SCHNAPP FPS No, 963768, influential
“West End edgeman had his establishment, wh i an oa
CLUB donolt shed by goons. This wo considers Was the final”)

‘» blow to the East and West divisions. ef :

by Prior to the East-West amalgamation, a second

“theory, less probable than the first, was also advanced. E

- Since Carmine GALENTE was using both Louis GRECO and Vic
COTRONI as enforcers as early as 1955, a two way split in

' crime specialties may have existed, GRECO could have hand=
led drugs, ganbling, stock frauds, counterfeiting, book- —
making and receiving. Vic COTRONI, through his assoclates
may have been responsible for prostitution, bonds and secu-

. rities, hold-ups and major rackets. Drugs ‘could have been
an open field, Bootlegging into one another's specialty

could. have been tolerated within reason with some measure :-*
of control. : : : i

nt oe Since 1961, Vic COTRONI's influence and prestige
within the syndicate is.known to have flourished rapidly.
We suspect that he is prosently the Commission boss. His
brothers Frank and Michel COTRONT are considered his enfor-
cersi GRECO, on the contrary, 1s renewing acquaintances ©

. With petty hoodlums. As a result. his activities are becoming
increasingly susceptible to detection.. GRECO is also reporte
ed financially onthe decline. This figures since he now -
operates a second rate restaurant in Three Rivers, PQ. ' >

. ("LE.ROT Du SPAGHETTI") 6 Beckie a ne oe ge Sieyererreneei



feaseecaceeek” ¥
RCMP.6886 : : . CONTINUATION C-23.

REV. 15-263,

PAGE

oy Vin cont odour 3

8. Roferring to Para. 2 where a request is made for
the names of 20 members whom we feel belong to the Montreal
"Decina", Inasmuch as we are convinced that the "Cosa Nostra’

has extended its tentacles here, wa have no evidence to sub- |
-stantiate the existence of even one "Cosa Nostra" family in
Montreal. We have received no atone at any time to
the effect that other than GALENTE, any of the local commis~ |.
a sion belonged to this organization as we know it to function...
: The ,fliegation that BONANNO, in 196) came to form a family |
3 of “borgatta", comes as no surprise. Had he been given the
opportunity of settling here, this may have come about.
Between his incarceration, legal proceedings and subsequent
deportation, it is most doubtful that he had made any gains
at forming such a family, particularly since the Montreal
tee wanted to be left alons.

Since we have been alerted to oe possibility o of
Hees Nostra" fanily being formed here, the matter will

be borne in mind and any information of value will be
i promptly il cote

cae, a
C.A.L. Libeiron: 1s383.
i/o Montreal Ne G& I. Ue

SECRET

4



ponsnaneee” dgsgnar

(2) Joseph, SBCCOLICHIO =.FPS_ #758891, born 28-Jan-20,
ans eel Montreal, a

Reported to be "strong-arm man" and "enforcer"
for the COTRONI syndicate and assists Frank

iz COTRONI in the supervision of the so called
Eastend Gang.

(3) Peter xBaivo G/WDAMS~- FPS #354597,

Ontarioy, A.

born 29-June-1h,
NALE :

ADAMO is a gambler who is connected with race
and bookmaking businesses. Reported to be
supervisor of the so.called Westend Gang with
ione George Williait{COHEN, referred to below,
for the Vic COTRONI“organization. Members of
the Westend Gang are reported to be well-known
; safecrackers and also dispose of stolen bonds.
ffi It is reported that ADAMO and COE do not take
“an active part in the safecracking or thefts
but establish new outlets for distribution
of the bonds and plan places to be robbed.

(4) George Willi E - FPS #98184, born, 3-May-05,
don, England.
\ COE is well-known Montreal gambler and reported
\ to be a "pressure man" for the syndicate (one
‘who contacts managers of nightclubs demanding
protection). Also note information on Peter
ADAMO. :

(5) Arma: OURVILLE - FPS #356432

eis a close associate of COTRONI and acts
as a front in various businesses for the

a COTRONI organization. :
(6) Fernand ee - no known record.
eh CLOG, edad himiconarsitrmrseeerermm een

He is a close associate of COTRONI and owner ei
of Jacques Cartier Motel in Montreal, possibly :
another business interest of COTRONI. Believed

to act as courier for COTRONI.

aS
(7) Paulf{VIOLI - FPS #820579, born 6-Feb-32, Reggio,
“tmnciansnenantaesmcnanommaCaLebnitrmSicilye 0

ocld: 32576574 Page 6



Doecld:32576574 Page 7

}
he

VIOLI. is a naturalized Canadain and has been
involved in illicit alcohol, counterfeit,
protection, arson and land fraud. Recent
investigation has shown a close association
between VIOLI and the COTRONI organization.

(8) Irving furs > aps. 4633862, FBI_ #2068775, born 16-Jan-65,
i aera

ontreal. 7 4 VW ADS ow

ELLIS is reported to be an "edge man” and collector
of protection fees from the gambling syndicate.
Past investigation has shown that ELLIS has
accompanied COTRONI to Miami, Elonida in 1958

and was believed to be the contact man between
COTRONI and the Carmine GALANTE organization.
Recently ELLIS has been involved in the Embassy
Steel investigation. ~—

(9) Jackie BHUGAR - FPS #335733, born 8-July-08, Russia.

i

He is a well-known gambler and recent investi- @ f/f
gation has shown his involvement in the Embassy Csaeranatisttiat
Steel operation.

y
(10) Hymanr{STERNMAN - FPS #17851A, FBI_#108053A, born
A ~ttnumamaatamaenmencmnmedsoctsL0, New York City, N.Y.’

(A
A well-known gambler and steel broker who. 9
is now subject of the STERNMAN-BERCOVITCH
et al investigation.
NEN ~
(11) Led [BERCOVTTOH - FPS #486134, born _26-Dec-Oh, Canada...
Well-known Montreal gambler and is the subject

of recent investigation concerning STERNMAN-
BERCOVITCH et al.

12) Sol NAPP @ Solly fSILVERS - FPS #963768 1 EMA id
: )_Solonen eter sony tive #963768, Cap pil

He is well-known "middleman" and "edge man"
for the Montreal_criminal element and
presently subject “of the STERNMAN-EMBASSY
STEEL investigation\( py eofF
re

(13) Harry/GSHIP - FPS #474777, born 1913 Canada.
[learenengerennrssn nnn, caneprne manent

: - tt w
a gambler and "edge man!
[€ Hen BOK



fe es

(14) Lois} aRco - FPS #225228, born 19-Sept-13, Montreal, @.
—~—-—""tn the [950s reported to be one of Carmine

GALANTE'ts top enforcers in the protection
and stock racketeering activities. Recent
reports indicate that he has lost his

influence in the organization to a certain

(15) Albert/MEAN - FPS #415880, FBL #3051573, born 13-Sept-11/12,

sores». (Granted landed status at
cr Montreal 9-Apr-53-) CANALES

Investigation in the past revealed that LEAN was
involved in gambling, prostitution, protection,
narcotits and stock rackets. In 1957 connected
with George BRISBOIS, FPS #882285, FBI #683656C
in the narcotic field and also associated with
Louis GRECO in the latter part of 1950 and early
1960 in the Welland Investment Limited stock
rackets with such tee known stock racketeers
as Arthur TORTORELLA (FBI #471455), Carmine
LOMBARDOZZI (FBI #290869) and Stanley YOUNGER
(FBI #27238hD). Recent enquiries indicate LEAN
residing in Quebec City, P.Q. and that there

has been contact between LEAN and Vic COTRONI.

[ (16) Vincen ANDO @ Jimmy - FPS #330940, born 17-Feb-15,
| nommecoocs--- Montreal .. id

—_____ PremiousinivestiTeatton-revealed that ORLANDO

i] is an ex-hockey player for the Detroit Redwings
i" and has been banished from entering the U.S.
He refereed wrestling matches in the Montreal
Forum and other locations in the province in
‘the 1950s and associates with known gamblers,
! nightclub people and wrestlers. Some of his
i associates in the past were Solly SCHNAPP,

Harry SHIP, Harry SMITH, Stanley PAPADAKIS

(FPS #668151 - brother-in-law of Peter ADAMO)
ith and other well-known Montreal hoodlums.
- ORLANDO is married and his wife is from Miami,
j Flonida. where in the past they spent considerable
time each year, He has a brother Joseph "Josie"
i ORLANDO, FPS #615331, who, in the 1950s managed
‘a gambling establishment on St. Antoine St.,

Samara)

~
Daclda:32576574 Page 8


Montreal. ORLANDO is also mentioned in our
correspondence dated 22-Feb-65, your reference
88-157, our reference 62 HQ-1180-1-C-4

concerning Joseph Vincent ASARO.
(17) LeofSCANZANO - FPS #587119, born 7-Jan-25.
ation received in 1960 revealéd that”

~ SCANZANO made application for permission to CANAD S
enter the U.S.A. as a non-immigrant. Enquiries
at that time revealed that he was involved in crenata
gambling and: on his application for permission
to enter the U.S. gave his destination as one
William FIORE of Springfield, Mass. who was
a well-known gambler and operator of bookie
joints in the western Mass. area. Enquiries
also revealed that SCANZANO operated gambling
establishments and the Chance Cafe, 1236 Crescent
St., Montreal, a front for card games and a
randevous for prostitutes and hoodlums etc.
in the 1950s. Confidential information received
at that time revealed that SCANZANO operated
the Aldos restaurant, 1061 Mountain Street,

Montreal along with his brother Frank SCANZANO,

Joseph ORLANDO and Vincent ORLANDO. Frank

SCANZANO has a police record and is recognized

as a “strong arm" type. Leo SCANZANO, in the

1950s was active in white slave traffic

between the U.S. and Montreal for a few years.

He is married and has two children. It is

reported that SCANZANO and Vincenzo ORLANDO bao
were king pins for the Mafia organization in

Montreal at that time. SCANZANO is also

i referred to in our correspondence of 22-Feb-65,

your reference 88-157.

, (18) Fran UZzO - FPS #117817
He is the son-in-law of Vic COTRONI and has

accompanied him on trips to U.S. and other @MN/LA
| ~ countries in the past. eects,

SSS

7, ‘a hi Lop
(19) Ralph ZO - 905. MeidenEStreet Montreal, GCAWALA

He is the father of Frank GUZZO and in 1959
managed the Chez Paree Nightclub which was
| then partly owned by COTRONI.

(20) Michael _(MichelFCOTRONI. @ "Nick" - FPS #623532,
Bonn ian : spontlinnnee,

born 12-June-28,,.Iil a CAN DoE
He is the brother’ of Vic and Frank COTRONI.

Hf
i
\

aN
Docld: 32576574 Page 9 :



Saige

j : (21) Paul ans Agron - FPS #235595, born
31-' Oct, 13 lontreads,, CHN AD Ae i

= es) Cala t
Residence - 664.7..ChauvinSt.sM Montreal.

oo is the father-in-law of Frank COTRONI? Aa
recent enquiries revealed that in 1960 was
the sole owner and president of the Lakeshore
Lines Ltd., Montreal, P.Q. and after a four
month operational period claimed to have
earned approximately $300,000. In the Fall
of 1960 the Island King, a crukse ship owned
by DESORMIERS, was burned and supposedly

~ destroyed by gangland violence. He received

: over $100,000 for local insurance companies
for the damage incurred. He has only two
minor convictions in 1930 - 1941 for theft and
immorality. He presently declares himself as
unemployed and his estimated worth is valued

| at over $800,000.
(22) Fernando eee. - born iaJan=28,

j ~ndta Dina oaie"the nephew Of Vic COTRONI and
: TS presently employed with the firm of Q : 1.
Guiseppe SUPUTO & FIGLI Ltd., 8510-8th Ave., C ALLA L A
\ Ville St. Michael, P.Q. mentioned in previous
correspondence concerning Joseph BONANNO.

Dominic }BéFRANCESCO - FPS #734889

ee information on brother Joseph DeFRANCESCO erect
n av mentioned below.

5

(pH) Jose [DeFRANCESCO - FPS #235759

No LAAT ER RT RCRA

cose

4 Past Gnvestigetion has shown close association
between Joseph DeFRANCESCO and his brother
Dominic with the COTRONI organization. Joseph
in the past has often acted as a chauffeur for
Vic COTRONI. Enquiries as recent as October
1964 revealed that a private party was held at
the "One and Two Nightclub", 755 Butler Street,
Montreal, a hangout for various racketeers.
Persons observed attending this party were
Frank COTRONI, Dominic perneesce i Joseph
DeFRANCESCO, drlando DeFRANCESCO (FPS #915011),
John Patrick MeGUIRE, FPS #640757, Vincenzo
ORLANDO and other criminals from the Montreal
area.

os

)Pocld:32576574 Page 10


he Most of the persons mentioned above have
been the subject of correspondence with your agency on separate
files. There are other persons we could name who have had
contact with Vic COTRONI and his brothers in various criminal
activities, however, we have tried to give you the names of
persons we feel have played a major part in the criminal fields
such as gambling, protection, prostitution, etc. This is not
to say that all these persons mentioned belong to the so called
Montreal branch of the "family", however, such persons as his
brother Frank COTRONI, Joseph COCCOLICHIO, Peter ADAMO, George
William COZ, Armand COURVILLE, Paul VIOLI, Irving ELLIS,
Vincenzo ORLANDO, Leo SCANZANO, the GUZZOs and DeFRANCESCOs
could be pert of the COTRONI "family".

56 This information is forwarded to assist
your Department in any further enquiries. We would appreciate
any additional information you may obtain in this matter.

aGA4es.. |

' E.L. Martin, Supt.,
Officer in Charge,
Criminal Investigation Branch.

Encls.

Docld:32576574 Page 11 : a ere ee

