# docid-32570528

## Page 1

- Mr.

Wanna 11

MEa

CSECRET

Aeдо1

Jane 4, 1956

birector,

FAT

465-6705129

518 No/En

Doclassiny our

OAL

8-8-98

DECEASE 5648 500/15R

JFK)

FosTer (9)

CiA has advised

chat during

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

recently defected Cuban Lebelligerco

offtace,

loames tune one dancingo vered,

desertoes as connected.

ViCh Đa0

donor trans of Che untan Intoll trence

Sorvice,

Monico Gioy during tho ported 8/31-83/60

Verse pas

altogedis plaming to travel,

no sande goes attor

3/23/66 using

136018

is regrestos to doterise Cbroug

Perce entered

sinco

Bus

Sun that Vered night he Identical

# 2010 4

IndividEal

the subject was to contact

Canoda

or disut 3/39/66.

Id soconis laliento Verse did

Canada

CORING

Cho

30Brcc8

KERRISH

availabio bath conceraing its)

Lucase

you say aise regrested

detorstno

•(S)

too are layed diploatie

ATI. INPORMATION CONTAINED

HERETE TO UNGLASSIFIND EXGETE

PUTER.

£101

tho foyal Coindian Mounted Police

currently mating efforts to develop

intomation

2OL0S1N

Antomacion mill

Do 26to

availabie

a Miant 05s 2949

AJan

1 - Foreign

'NOT RECORDEL

-DE 7 CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

(S) 67 MUN 1 1960

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORIMATION

IN THIS DOCUMEN 5-5-98

Liaison Unit (Route through

1 - 105-129596 (Saker)

for review)

105130409

, (Perez)

DUPLICATE YELLON

ORICINAL FIBED IN

JUN 5

1964

IMIT

SECRET

• DocId: 32570528

Page

---

## Page 2

letter to

Legal

Ne:

FOXTROT

65-67951(5)

S

Attache, Octawe

OF SECRET

Subject is & Cuban agent

in

Miamia

He traveled

to Canada in March,

1504

for a meet with an indiviqual

known

do us as "Rolo."

We have not

identified "Rolo"

to date.

Infomation

received from

CIA interview of defector,

Vladinir Rodriguez Lohera.

Poker it die i that Sayin canada during peo

been in Canada during pertinent S

London

are Identical or that either nay be "Kolo,

developing intormation on saker «enni,

and RIP has requested to be advised re hiu.

RCMP cooperated

in soverage of proposed meet in Canada 3/64d9

SECRET

DocId: 32570528

Page 2

---

