# docid-32301063

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10277-10398

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-165

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

01/19/1965

'PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, ACA, ALLEGED, BOMBING RAID, INFILTRATION,

CUBA, NIAGARA SUGAR MILL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32301063

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Via

Date:

JAN 1 9 1965

ALL INFORMA:

unsmit the following in

PION CONTAINED

ARGEH IS

(Type in plaintext or code)

TLASSIPLED

EXCEPT WHE

SHOWN

ALUTEL

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SID UKSK

OTHERWISE

-04--019-47--=JEK

10:

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (105-2855) (P)

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

(MIRE)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA;

NSUTRALITY MATTERS

Classified by i

Declassify on: CAOR 9/16/9

MA NAS NO OBJECTION TOI

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

ISK

IN THIS DOCUMENT. K

1-29-47

Re Miami airtel to Bureau 1/14/65.

F3VJFK

Enclosed herewith are 12 copies of a letterhead.

memorandum dated and captioned as above.

7/3/11 daL

3S FULL

Copies are being disseminated locally

• to the

following agencies:

ONI, OSI, G-2, Coordinator of Cuban

Affairs, Department of State, CIA,

Coast Guard, Customs,

Miami, Customs, Region II, Miami, Customs, Key

West,

Border Patrol, INS and FAA. ,

до 7-2 18 ( 639-8.] * (L)

SIDE

MM T-2 is MM 492-S.

FICATION

ACTIOS

on -/18/65, U. S. Customs, Miami, advised that

ORLANDO BOSCH is not interested in infiltration operations,

S not known to have any boats and is considered by Customs

-VERS DO Capabilities tot totatio

apy t0: CIA/State/100 75 0,

DIA/Customs

CRimmiNs

by routing slip fat tolo/

202 02-4

405-2855) Date... 1-21 as a KHa/ St

(1 - 134-44)

REC- 111'

- AIRR

SEC

3) 14128

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

Sent

Per

harge

DocId: 32301063 Page 2

---

## Page 3

мм 105-2855

Concerning MIRR's claim that an air raid was

conducted, U. S. Customs stated there is no confirmation,

Radio Havana has made no mention of the claim, and Custons

places no credence in the story.

Coordinator o1 Cuban Attairs, state Department, Hians,

advised that otice has no confirming information that

On 1/18/65, CIA, Miami, advised that agency has no

information indicating that the

bombing raid and infiltration

mission took place. (OCK

u)

MM 639-S advised the

alleged air raid mentioned

in the press release is the same plan as reported in

referenced Miami airtel to Bureau 1/14/65; however,

MM 639-S did not participate. *)u

EVELIO ALPIZAR, Key source,

advised he had no

intormation concerning the alleged air raid and did not

participate in it.

On 1/18/65, U. S. State Dept. in Miami issued

a press release saying it "tends to doubt that such a raid

even took place."

On 1/19/65, PAA, Miami, advised that agency has

no intormation concerning the alleged raia.

Miami will maintain contact with local federal

agencies and informants concerning this matter and will keep

the Bureau advised.

2

DocId: 32301063

Page 3

---

