# docid-32157890

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10126-10077

RECORD_SERIES: NO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 44-2064-220

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CLEMENTS. MANNING C.

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/06/1963

PAGES: 302

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 44-24016-658

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

09/09/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/25/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32157890

Page

1

---

## Page 2

FEDI

REFORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

JACK L. RUBY, Aka.;

LEE HARVEY OSWALD®

(DECEASED) = VICTIM

AL BUREAU OF

NVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALIAS

SECRET

DATE

12/6/63

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

11/25/63 - 12/4/63

TYPET

SA MANNING C. CLEMENTS

CHARACTER OF CASE

CR

REFERENCE:

1-24-92

RepOrt Of SA MANNING C. CLEMENTS dated 11/30/63

at Dallas.

it diassity ou:

bADR. JFK

REVIE

LEADS

All leads are being set out by teletype and telephone.

Copies are fornished of

this report to Chicago, Detroit,

New Orleans and New York for information in view of investiga

tion being condusted by those offices.

ADMINISTRATIVE

No dissemination will be made outside the Bureau

except, on bureau instructions.

This report containe no interviews with news madia

or police representatives

3 who were present at the shooting of

OSWALD Dy RUBT or: 11/24/63.

These will be incorporated in a

subsequent report.

APPROVED

SPECIAL

AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

- Bureau (44-240161

= Detroit 44 663) LaFO

New. Orleans (44-2064) (into)

New York (44-974) (info)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

44

2064-220

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED...

SFTLED...

DEC1 1 1913

FBI - NEW ORLEANS

8

- Dallas (44-1639)

Bale

оле

Fits

DISSEMINATION RECORD

OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY...

REQUEST RECO.

DATE FWD. -..

HOW FWD:

BY....

NOTATIONS

ALL INFORALATION CONTAINED

HEFEIN IS UNCUASSIFIED EXCEPT

THERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

CLASSIFIED BY S668 SLD/GGL

DECLASSIFY ON: 251. 1)(6)

(Пк) 4/26/96

DocId: 32157890 Page 2

---

## Page 3

•IA 44-895

SECRET

2

RONNIE SCALIAR, TIMMY WELCH and NANCY SINATRA, daughter of

FRANK SINATRA.

on 9/19/63, IA 4429-C in discussing MAX WEINBERG,

designated as Top Jewel Theft subject, advised SAS DONALD

A. SCHLAEFER, and WILLIE R. WHITE and Supervisor CHESTER

B. ST. VINCENT, that WINGERG's daughter is presently employed

as a secretary for Reprise Records owned by FRANK SINATRA.

She received this job through a distributor, MEL (LNU) .

IA 4429-0 further advised that he had heard

that

people in the Reprise office were calling all over the

country and placing large bets.

No details or names

relative to this type of activity were available to LA 4429-C.

On 6/28/63, MICHAEL SHORE of Reprise Records,

1347 Cahuenga, Los Angeles, California, Telephone No.

HO 6-8211, advised SAA CHARLES E. STINE that he had seen

publicity

in the Los Angeles papers concerning the conviction

Of MARVIN R: COLE on Obstruction of Justice charges.

He

commented that he had known COLE for a long time and that

"MARVIN COLE iS DOC STACHER'S bOy"

' SHORE stated that he

had been, in some measure, responsible for starting COLE

out in business in New York City a number of years ago.

He indicated that on one occasion he had loaned money to

COLE in order that COLE might buy points in the Fremont

Hotel and Gambling Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada.

On 10/18/63 MARVIN R. COLE was indicted by the

Federal Grand Jury at Los Angeles, charging him with two

counts of violation of Obstruction of Justice.

Trial

commenced in U. S. District Court, Los Angeles 5/14/63.

on 5/23/63 the jury returned a verdict of guilty on both

counts.: On 6/12/63, a fine of $1,000 on

each of the two

counts was imposed by the court.

Notice of Appeal was

filed by COLE's attorneys on 6/13/63.

The January, 1961 Agency List of the Standard

SECRET

DoC10: 32157690 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 44-1639

SECRET

ENew York 538-Sadvised that at 12:15 p.m%

November 13L

1963 WIESLAW CORNICKI, Polish correspondent of the Polished (u)

Press Agency, in a conversation with BOHDAN LEWANOWSKI, Polish

Ambassador to the United State'stated that he had information

indicating that the correspondent (name not given), of the Indian

Publication "Blitz" was in Dallas the day of the attack, ( assassi-

nation) and apparently obtained documents stating that police

Sheriff CURRY and RUBY were members of the "MB KESIDE" or

"MB SESILE" (phonetic) &GORNICKIwas to verify this information L&(U)

December 2, 1963, and*GORNICKIxalso indicated this information

would be published in the near future by "BLITZ", which he

described as an Anti-American publication. The list of non United

States National Accredited as correspondents.and representatives of

information media by the United Nations as of October 31, 1963,

lists RAMESH SANGHVI of Indian nationality as associated with

"BLITZ" •*NIESLAW GORNICKI of Polish nationality

was listed as

associated with the Polish Press Agency!

2(4)

SECRET

DocId: 32157890

Page

4

can py

---

## Page 5

DI. 44-1639/BL

Sources at San Antonio, Austin, Waco, Temple and

Pharr, Texas, had no pertinent information:

SECRE!

The following sources were contacted negatively on

11/25/63 by the indicated Agents:

AT SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS:

SOURCE

PCI J. C. STEPHENSON, Proprietor, s. P.

Drug Store and News Stand

SA 665-0

PCI VANCE F. BORDELON, gambler

PCI CAESAR I. FERRIS, cafe owner and

bartender

Former SA 560-C

PCI PHILLIP BORDONARO, Tavern keeper

PCI JACK PATRICK HANRATTY, gambler

PCI ROBERT S. YARRINGTON, retired gambler

Capt. ROBERT ALLEN, Vice Squad, SA PD

(including check of vice squad records)

PCI VINCENT I. LOCICERO

PCI WADE HANSEN

PCI HENRY CARTER

SA 660-C

CONTACTING AGENT

SA BRUNO F. DREYER

SA DREYER

SA DREYER

SA DREYER

SA DREYER

SA JOHN RUSSELL GRAHAM

SA GRAHAM

SA GRAHAM.

SA MORTON P. CHILES, JR.

SA CHILES

SA CHILES

SA CHILES

SA CHILES

AT AUSTIN, TEXAS:

PCI MARY HALBOUTY, Manicurist

Former PCI MARION C. "SONNY" PEARSON,

gambler

-

SA H. T. BURK

SA BURK

COVER PAGE

SECRET

Your

1py

DocId: 32157890 Page 5

---

## Page 6

DI 44-1639/BL

Sources at San Antonio, Austin, Waco, Temple and

Pharr, Texas, had no pertinent informations

The following sources were contacted negatively on

11/25/63 by the indicated Agents:

AT SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS:

SOURCE

PCI J. C. STEPHENSON, Proprietor,

S.

Drug Store and News Stand

SA 665-6

PCI VANCE F. BORDELON, gambler

PCI CAESAR J. FERRIS, cafe owner and

bartender

Former SA 560-C

PCI PHILLIP BORDONARO, Tavern keeper

PCI JACK PATRICK HANRATTY, gambler

PCI ROBERT S. YARRINGTON, retired gambler

Capt. ROBERT ALLEN, Vice Squad, SA PD

(including check of vice squad records)

PCI VINCENT L. LOCICERO

PCI WADE KANSEN

PCI HENRY CARTER

SA 660-€

CONTACTING: AGENT

SA BRUNO F. DREYER

SA DREYER

SA DREYER

SA DREYER

SA DREYER

SA JOHN RUSSELL GRAHAM

SA GRAHAM

SA GRAHAM

SA MORTON P. CHILES, JR.

SA CHILES

SA CHILES

SA CHILES

SA CHILES

AT AUSTIN, TEXAS:

PCI MARY HALBOUTY, Manicurist

Former PCI MARION C. "SONNY" PEARSON,

gambler

SA H. T. BURK

SA BURK

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32157890

Page 6

Your jig

---

## Page 7

SL: 44-496

SECRET

AT ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI

SL 1285-C-TE advised SA CLARK S. SMITH On :

November 27, 1963 that AL CHARLES, Proprietor

of the stardust club at st. Louis, Missouri, advised

him that he has known JACK RUBY for 15 years.

Informant stated that RUBY, according to CHARLES has

a business partner, name unknown, who is 7o years of

age and who formerly was in business in Dallas, Texas,

with an individual named JOE BOND.

Informant stated

that CHARLES advised that BOND and RUBY's present

partner operated a bar and burlesque house in Dallas,

Texas, which was in competition with a similar

establishment operated by an unnamed individual who

had an "in" with the Police Department.

Informant

advised that CHARLES related that subsequently a

rape charge was filed against BOND who then fled from

Dallas, Texas, to Washington, D.. C., where he opened

a similar business.

BOND according to CHARLES was

later "fingered" and arrested at Washington, D. C..

However, no dates of occurrance were given

in relating

this story:

Informant advised that CHARLES stated RUBY

then went into business in Dallas with JOE BOND's, former

partner, name unknown.

The indicies of the St. Louis Office failed to

reflect any derogatory information on AL CHARLES.

AA

(COVER PAGE)

SECRET

DocId: 32157890

Page 7

---

## Page 8

DI 44-1639

SECRET

On November 27, 1963, the St. Louis Office advised that

SL 1285-C-TE advised SA CLARK S. SMITH on November 27, 1963, that

AL CHARLES, Proprietor of Stardust Club, St. Lout, Missouri,

has known JACK RUBY for fifteen years.

According to informant,

CHARLES stated RUBY has a business partner, name not mentioned,

70 years old, who formerly was in business in Dallas with an indi-

vidual named JOE BONDS.

Informant advised that BONDS and RUBY's

present partner operated a bar and burlesque house which wa in

competition with a similar establishment operated by an unna te

individual who was friendly with the police department.

D'. C., and no dates given.

Informant stated according to CHARLES,

RUBY then went in business with BONDS' former partner.

AL CHARLES,

Proprietor of Stardust Club, St. Louss,

Missouri, featuring EVELYN WEST and other burlesque acts, was

personally contacted by SA CLARK S. SMITH on November 27, 1963.

CHARLES stated he is not personally acquainted with JACK RUBY,

did not know he originally came from Chicago, or that his name

was RUBENSTEIN.

However, CHARLES advised he

as being in a similar business endeavor as his in Dallas for the

past 15 years.

CHARLES stated he received a telephone call from RUBY

approximately two years ago on occasion RUBY made an inquiry re-

garding night club acts. CHARLES further advised in April of

this year he paid a visit to Dallas and patronized the three

burlesque houses in Dallas, including that of JACK RUBY.

CHARLES

maintained he has no other knowledge of RUBY or his associates.

SECRET

COVER

PAGE

DocId: 32157890

Page 8

---

