# docid_32295254

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10215-10030

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2717-10

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: GRANT, ROBERT M.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/07/1958

27

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

ABR, BKG, RES, REL, CRIMINAL RECORDS, ASSOC, BUSS

ACT, FINANCES, TRA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

02/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45737 DocId: 32295254

Page 1

106

---

## Page 2

PH 92-444

7318:

T- 28:

T-:3%:

T-4::

T-5::

INFORMA NIS

IDWARD VENEZEALE contacted 1/3/53, -by SA J. ROBERT •

TEARCE.. +

LEONARD. RUTILIAMO, Patrolman, fhiladelphia

Police

Department, contacted 2/3/58,

, by SA JOSETH A. VERICA, •

TH 251-C contactod: 1/20/58, by SA DIVID E. WALKER,

CS WILLIAM D'D NELL, Supervisor, Rookkeeping

1225 North

2/4/58, by S/ ROBERT M. GRANT. •

PH 26.9-C-icontactod 1/17/58 by SA DALE M. HIESTAND®'

Driminal. Informant Coverage:

Present Criminal Informants being utilized;

PH. Top: Hoodlums.

PH: 269-C.

This informant is closely associated with subject

and:is schedulad to.act as advisor for subject

on"

contomplated: trash:collection contract in Dade

County, Fläo

PH: 467-C. This informant 'is a numbers writer and pickup'

man. intSouth: philadelphia. He knows subject and

other Top Hoodlums and frequents some of their

hangouts.:.

PH: 460-C- This tinformant' is' a local madam and prostitute who

knows: some of Top Hoodlums' and other racket people!

and has furnished girls?to them in past.

ADMINISTRATIVE PIGE

- 25 ÷

NW 45737 DocId: 32295254

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-Цlili

Fi Dougl

INFORMANIS (CONTINUED)

PCI

inis informant Is a numbers writer for subject

and contacts him on a regular basis re the numbers

?:4.12 111,11

business..

"where write?

PCI EDDIE VENEZEALE

This informant has been able to obtain information

on subject and other Top Hoodlums. Informant's

T9: 10161

brother, was supposed to have been killed by

subject and as result informant is willing to

furnish any information possible on subject.

Philadelphia Police

Officer LEONARD

RUTIGLIAMO •

This police officer is well acquainted with Hoodluns

and racket men in South Philadelphia as a result

of investigating them. He furnishes confidential

information

to SA JOSEPH A. VERICA who has known

him since childhood.

iT tires,

1129 cer

PCI's to be developeds ne ch-taloon.

* .:

W""

MORRIS FEIMURG, was

This individual was formerly a symboled

Informant who has been reopened since he personally

mows subject and has prevlously furnished informa-

cation on him.

$4

Connel siere ne

LOUIS LALLI

This PCI has been reopened since he is reported

to handle the juke box business that pays off to

subject

PHILLIP TESTA

÷ •

This individual is reported as being 'one of

subject's Lieutenants who handles street operation

of subject's numbers bank.

.:..

'i'"

DOMINIC COLOZZI

This person is reported as being the office manager

of subject's numbers' bank.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE (CONTINUED)

MaD: 2: 1029326 210)

<10

NW 45737 DocId:32295254 Page 3

OTHER 4

---

