JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10213-10135
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2781-460
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: LABADIE, STEPHEN J.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 02/07/1962
“PAGES: 18
SUBJECTS :
LST, BKG, ACT OF ASSOC, ASSETS, ILLEGAL AND GENERAL
ACT
DOCUMENT TYPE PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: _Redact _
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 10/09/1998 -
&
OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2

v9.1
Docld:32294359 Page 1


°F 209 1s) ce

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office Office of Origin Dato Investigative Period
TAMPA TAMPA 2/7/62 1/20 - 2/6/62
TITLE OF CASE Report made by ‘Typed By:
n

vw SA_STEPHEN J, LABADIE cl
SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka. CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING US

7 Log

jopsis: z
r REFERENCE: Report of SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE, 1/23/62 at Tampa.

-P-

LEADS:

MIAMI DIVISION

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will report results of leads set out in previous reports.:

y subject's activities.

&

- Will continue to submit daily teletypes concerning j

Will continue efforts to establish highly confidential
Bureau techniques at subject's residence or on his close associates,

Will establish subject's connection, if any, with
Cuban Executiv diub, Metropolitan Bank Building, securing complete
details on th¥S gambling casino in view of recently enacted :

pproved erent! Do not wrtte in spaces below

ples made: i] =

mann B+ Bureau (92-2781) GA. 961 - G0 nate 33
1 - USA, Miami 2
2 - Miami (92-88) Se ee © [ex-108
2 - Tampa (92-1) Ss

43 FEB 18 1962

4

ry

FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents aro to be distibuted outside the agency to which loaned.

 U, 8. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1988 0—344750

Docld:32294359 Page 2


TP 92-1

INFORMANTS
TP T-1

TP T-2
TP T-3
TP T-4

“Ne

Lg
re

is FRANK RAGANO, Attorney, 412 Pierce Street,
who advised that heannot divulge any client,
lawyer relationship, who requests his identity
be protected.

is MARIO CESAR CAPAZ - PCI.
is TP 50-C, whose identity is known to the Bureau.

is CS TP 51-C, whose identity is known to the
Bureau. é

ce
Cover Page

i
| Docla: 32294359 Page 3

