# docid-32285899

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10194-10175

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-29-578

Released under the John

f. kennedy

Masassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Casef:N! 45760 Date:

04-06-2018

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/31/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIP, ASSOC, BUSS, GAMBLING, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/15/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45760

14

DooId: 32285899

Page 1

---

## Page 2

+D-3685167-12-13-561

•-=

FBI

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Date: 8/31/62

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

Director, FBI (62-9-29)

FROM:

SAC, Miami (92-515) (P)

RE:

( CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

Weekly Summary

MM 819-C* advised on 8/25/62, that HYMAN LEVINE

told JOSEPH INDELICATO (Miami 92-404) he had been in contact

with JOSEPH STRASSI, aka Joe Rogers, in NYC and ROGERS

advised against any

gambling ventures in the Dominican

Republic because of the lack of money to be made in that

area.

MM 830-PC on 8/23/62, advised that JOSEPH FISCHETTI

(Miami 92-99) is at the Deauville Hotel, Miami Beach, Fla., V

and booking entertainment in there.

CHARLES HAYEK, PCI, on 8/10/62, advised that ELUM

ADDIE CAUDELI (Miami 165-6) approached HARRY LEE YATES (Miami

165-26) within the past six months in an attempt to get YATES

to financially back a moonshine operation in the Bahama

n in not

to get KATES

Islands. According to his infomation, the moonshine was

supposed to be produced in the Bahama Islands and transported

by private boat to a point somewhere in the upper part of the

Miami River in Miami, Fla. He further understood that YATES

declined to back the operation.

MM 807-C on 8/17/62, advised he received information

that BERNIE BERMAN, an attorney and North Miami Beach City

e. Fis

3. - Bureau (AM)

REC- 47

•2 • Miami

2-9-24-5'16

RFF: msb

(5)

1'2

SEP

3

1962

Approved

W41.

54

SEP 1019521m hor

Sent

Charge

'H# 45760 DocId:32285899 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM

92-515

Councilman who is a close associate and has acted as a

front for FRANK DIOGUARDI (Miami 92-405), had been

expecting an appointment as a Metro Judge. This source

stated he just received information that BERMAN's name

has been dropped as a possible candidate for the job.

MM 509-C previously advised, as set forth in

Miami airtel of 8/24/62, that JOE MORRISON, a close

associate of MICHAEL COPPOLA (Miami 92-101) and a part

of the COPPOLA-MORRISON gambling and bookmaking group

with WILLIAM DARA, a burglar and jewel thief (Miami 87-3078),

have acquired "The Apartment," a tavern and lounge at North

Miami Beach, Fla. On 8/21/62, MM 509-C advised he learned

that MORRISON years ago was a burglar and that MORRISON

and DARA were partners in some burglaries years ago. He

said he also learned that MORRISON does not make an

appearance at this lounge, but that DARA is beginning to

make this a hoodlum and thief hangout and that DARA

recently indicated he had made some "local scores" and

has a good source to handle his stolen items.

RICHARD JAFFEE, Special Agent, IRS, Miami,

Fla. advised after checking, that

JFK Law 11(a)

MM 509-C reported that recently NICK TROMBINO

and PETE DE LESSIO (phonetic), two East Side New York

burglars and friends of DARA, were in this tavern.

IRS

REVIEWED

BY

EJFK

• TASK FORCE

BY SOUFK TASK FORCE

RAI

CAM

910/s do

NELSO SENDART

TOTAL DEMAL

•2.

HH 45760 DocId:32285899 Page 3

---

