# docid-32298609

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI.

124-10222-10385

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-3432-87

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 45737 Date:

04-06-2018

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, SF

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

12/29/1960

53

ABR, RAB, ASSOC, SUR, CITIZENSHIP, INTV, NASO,

VINCENT J., EMILY, LANZA, JAMES J., IDENT RECORDS,

ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, PROPERTY, B/F INT, TRA, FGJ

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

11/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: INC LHM

N9.1

HH 45737

DooId: 32298609

Page

2

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104

UNITED STATES GOV

NMENT. ""

"Memoranaum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3437)

FR

SAN FRANCISCO (92-123)

- SUBJECT:

JAMES JOSEPH

LANZA

DATE:

12/29/60

Enclosed

are an original and five copies of

the letterhead memorandum prepared by SA HERBERT K.

MUDD, JR., which is captioned and dated as above.

The informants used in the preparation of

the letterhead memorandum are identified as follows:

SF I-1 is Mr. AUGUST H. JOHNSON

licer, Bank of America, NT a SA, San Mateo Brancha

San Mateo, California.

SF T-2 is Miss ANN RUSH, Supervisor, State

Selective Service Headquarters, Sacramento, California.

SF I-3 is CSSF 50-X, identity known to the

Bureall..

SF T-4 New York State Board Legislature on

141

Government operations (Watch Dog) which made available

to the New York Oflice certain confidential reports of

the Pennsylvania State Police.

The Pennsylvania State

Police report on RUSSELL BUFALINO dated 12/15/57 set

forth information reported in details of this report.

Identity protected

as requested by New York Office.

SF T-6 is surveillance conducted by SAs

CHARLES J. PRELSNIK, JAMES PE NYE, CHARLES G. CAMPBELI

and GEORGE HARTLEY.

SF I-7 is surveillance conducted by SA ALBERT

P. CLARK,

SA ROBER S. BERRIMAN and SA HAROLD WO LEGGETT.

Bureau (Enclosures 6) no

San Francisco

HKM: paf

REC- 74

lee mener?

BE 2 9 3 34/22

82 JAN & 1968

BI JAN 2 3 1968

CR

R

87

HH 45737

DocId: 32298609

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SF 92-123

HKM: paf

SF I-8 Mr. FRANK WILLIAMS, INS, 630 Sansome

'Street, San Francisco, California.

SF T-9 is R. EHLERS, Accounting Department,

Pacific National Bank, 333 Montgomery Street, San

Francisco, California.

SF I-ll is mail cover on 559 Washington

Street, San Francisco, California.

SF T-13 ERWIN G. BROWN, Supervisor, Income

Tax Division, California

California.

Franchise Board, Sacramento,

SF I-14 is CSSF 2087-C whose identity is

known to the Bureau.

SF I-15 IS JOHN JAMES SCARDINI, 1620 Farrell

Terrace,

Farrell, Pennsylvania, owner Tri-State Music

Company.

SF T-17 is J. WEHR, Intelligence Squad,

Internal Revenue Service, San Francisco, California.

SF I-10 iS MELVIN J. BLOSSOM, PCI, Albany,

New York, former employee of

JOSEPH BARBARA.

SF T-20 surveillance by SAs MAX H. FISCHER

and ROBERT L. HAMILTON.

SF I-21. iS SA ROBERT U. MANN.

California.

SF I-5 is the Telephone Company in Los Angeles,

INS.

REVIEWED BY FBWJFK TACK FORCE

ON

9/4/92 DAB/

I RELEASE IN FULL

L

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DEMAL

DALS

REVIEWED BY EBUJFK TASK FORCE

ON

122/98 cal.

I RELEASE IN FULL

= RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

- 2-

НН 45737 DoCId:32298609 Page 3

---

