# docid-32199836

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10274-10071

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-1394

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, MX

'TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/03/1963

PAGES: 96

SUBJECT:

JFK, ASSA, SUSP, LOPEZ, GILBERTO POLICARPO, LHO, POST-RP, TRA, TRIP

TO MX 9/26/63, ASSOC, SIGHTING, EAST ORANGE, NJ, FPCC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

01/21/1999

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

INC FBI RESPONSE, LTR, 2 LHM, REC, 7 MEMO, 6 RPT, 3 A/T, 5 TTY, 2

ADMIN PAGES, 2 DOJ MEMO, DOJ LTR, CC LTR

DocId: 32199836

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (F 1. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via _

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 12/16/63

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priorisy or Method of Mailing)

TO :

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, TAMPA (105-2157) (2)

GILBERTO, POLICARPO

LOPEZ, aka

Gilberto /LopeztRodriguez

IS - CUBA

(00:TP)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ERE IS LLASSIFIED

BY 4503 RPD/GAT

JFK

12.311

Re Tampa airtel to Bureau, Gated

72/9/63

Dallas tel to Bureau,

Tampa and San Antonio,

dated 12/14/63, captioned "LET HARVEY OSVALD, ala IS. " i;

IS C"

For information of the Bureau, the GILBERTO LOPEZ

referred to in re Dallas tel, is identical to subject, on

whom information was transmitted to Bureau by re airtel,

and on whom investigation is continuing to ascertain whether

or not he had permission for travel to cuba.

For information of Dallas and San Antonio, photo-

graph or

captioned subject was identified 12/9/63 by

IP 439-psf as GILBERTO LOPEZ, who was present at gatherine

of fair Play for Cuba Committee, Tampa Bay Chapter (TYCC-IP)

11/17/63 in private residence,

Tampa, fla.

Informant de-

scribed subject as white male,

23, 5'7"; 125 Jbs.;

dark hair, parted on left side; light eyes; fair complexion; -!

prominent

nose, high bridge; very neat clothes and spoke very

little English.

Subject was expecting telephone call from

Cuba that day, in order to get word on his departure for

it regular meeting of the FPCC-TE on 12/8,65,

attended by To 139-ps1

-wo officers of group remarked that

subject had made it to Cuba safely, according to telephone

REG- 23

3- Bureau (RIl)

1-Dallas (Inio) (AM)

15114

1-San Antonio (Into) (Al)

Max/ this dociment is prenured in response to your requestsand is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

•Jor Come wal the content hah not be disclosed to unduthorised verson-

nee without the express approval of the FBl .

DocId: 32199836

Page 2

---

## Page 3

y General

FBI

U.

ON

SENATE

SBIRCT. COM

TELLIGENCE AGTIVITIES (SSC)

Beferenc

19760

which re

need acces

2 - MI.

"J.

A.

Mintz

(1

- Mr.

. B. Hotis)

- Mr.

Wannall

W.

0.

cresar

February 13, 1976

1 = Mr:

McCarthy

Duffin

to the SSC which Lo

referenced letter.

of Chie nerorandu:

Enclosures (2)

62-116395

1 • The Deputy

Attentions

and forvarding

to the

our recorde

EX 104

Intelligence Coordinel town

REC-1462 116395--1394

7 FEB 24 1976

(10)

SENIOSURE

VOCO HEROIN

ALL INEORMATION CONTAINED

ASSIFIED

N/no 18

DATE 3-2-94

BY 91031000/105/

JFK

Will

readelvie

Assoc, Dir.

Dep. AD

Dep.

Asst. D

Admin.

Comp. Syst

Ext. Affairs -

Files & Com. _

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

Ins poctist

EI MR 10

Laboratory

agal Coun.

Plan. & Eval.

Spec: Inv.

Training:

Telephone Rm.

Director Sec'y

8 4 FEB 2 7 1976.

MAIL ROOM

DocId: 32199836

Page 3

PL UNIT 03

GPO 8 1975 0 0594-120

---

## Page 4

FÚ-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

TAMPA

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

GILBERTO POLICARPO LOPEZ,

aka

DATE

6/19/64

REPORT MADE BY

SA MOSES A. ALEMAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/11/64 - 6/3/64

IS • CUBA

TYPED BY

nh

REFERENCE

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

DocId: 32199836

Page 4

Report of SA MOSES A. ALEMAN at Tampa dated 3/31/64.

Miant letter to Tampa dated 6/10/64 (I0).

- Pe

AL! INFORM

LEADS

REX.

MIAMI DIVISION

TE 3 - 8-94 9803 RDP/KSR

An information copy of this report is desigeated

for Miami because pending investigation being conducted at

Hialeah and Key West, Florida.

TAMPA DIVISION

AT TAMPA, FLA.

Will maintain contact with appropriate sources for

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

Bureau (105-126109) (RM)

1

INS, Miami (RM)

tit

ONd, Charleston,

s.C.

1

• OSI, Robins AFB,

Ga.

(RM)

(RM)

1 « G-2, Ft. McPherson,

Ga. (RM)

1 = INTC, Orlando,

Fla.

(RM)

• Miami

(105-8380)

(RM)

2 • Тамра

(105-2157)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

This dement is tichried in response to

your request and is not for dissemi-

Coumittee. Its use

is limited to official proceedings by

I the content may not

be disclosed to unauthorized person

whow the expreso approval of the

FBI a

62-116395 ene

---

## Page 5

TP 105-2157

inforation

subject and upor

completion of

the above

Leads, WiLL

consider' subject for inclusion on the security

Indes,

determined that he meets the appropriate

criteria.

ADMIRLSTRATIVE

The investigative period of this report is extensive

because the report

includes

Investigation conducted by another

oLice, which

not Included in the previous report.

INFORMANT'S

IDENTITY

TP T-1 18 FP 139-4

LOCATION

TP 134-272A-32

• B#

COVER

PAGE

DocId: 32199836

Page 5

---

## Page 6

FD-263 (Rev-5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

TAMPA

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

CHANGED

GILBERTO POLICARPO LOPEZ,

aka

Gilberto Lopez Rodriguez, G11-

berto Lopez, Gilbert P. Lopez,

Gilbert Lopez

DATE

3/31/64

REPORT MADE BY

SA MOSES A. ALEMAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

. 12/9/63 - 3/3/64

TYPED D

jw

IS - CUBAR

MFORRATION CONTAISEA

FIED

Led ALSE

The title has been marked changed to set forth the additional

aliases of GILBERTO LOPEZ, GILBERT P. LOPEZ, and GILBERT LOPEZ.

REFERENCES

Miami letters to Tampa dated 1/28/64, and 3/11/64. (IO)

Report of SA MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, Jr., Legat, Mexico 1/31,

Tampa airtel to Bureau 12/16/63.

54. MAS NO ORIFCTION TO

LON: ANGROR,

LEADS

NORMATION

NIHIS DOCUMENT

MIAMI DIVISION GMB 3-14-94

Classified

Dactassily oa:

3-8-Qpl

TEDD/KSR

DAD:

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

*(1) Check office indices on subject and his mother.

* (2) Check INS records miami for intormation on subject's

ther relative

nO-

to her entry into the United States approximately in 1960

*(3) Conduct credit and arrest checks on both.

This dement is prepared in response to your request and is not for diesemi-

mini quiside 10vr Committee.

I's use is limited to official proceedings by

APPROVED

not, be disclosed to unauthonzed person

COPIES MADE:

mi retrat the capress amortee

the FBl.

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

- Bureau (105-126109) (RM)

- INS, Miami (RM)

- ONI, Charleston

(RM)

- OSI,

Robins AFB,

Ga.

(RM)

- G-2,

1

Ft. McPherson,

Ga. (RM)

- INIC, Orlando (Ru)

2

~ Miami (105-8380)

(RM)

2 - Tapa (105-2157)

Dissemination Record of Atrached Repor

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

62-116395-1394 enli

ON 18/97

DocId: 32199836

Page

....?

---

## Page 7

CONTESTAL

TP 105-2157)

AT KEY WEST, FLORIDA

*(4) Conduct a credit and arrest check on subjeöt's mo-

ther .

(5) Contact the Naval Exchange for background and where-

abouts of

AGAPITO GONZALEZ

(6) Interview JORGE RODRIGUEZ, Jr, c/o Toppino Construc-

tion Company, Stock Island, Florida.

TAMPA DIVISION

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA

Will maintain contact with appropriate sources for any

information on subject and upon completion of the above leads will

consider

subject for inclusion on the security index if it is de-

termined that he meets the appropriate criteria.

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

INFORMANTS

Identity

Location

TP

T-1

iS MEX-1K

(4)

TP T-2 is RAFAEL HERNANDEZ OCHOA,

Mexico City

105-3750

Mexico City 105-3750

Assistant Director Mexican Depart-

ment of Immigration (by request)

TP T-3 is TP 139-PSI

TP T-4 is TP 27-S

TP 134-272A-15

TP 134-2A-307

TP 1-5

is TP 114-S*

TP

I-6 1S MEX-180

Mexico City 105-3750

The following confidential sources familiar with Cuban

activities in the Tampa, Florida area were contacted with negative

results as indicated.

Sources

Date Contacted

Contacting Agent

TP 64-S

TP 45-S

1/24/64

1/30/64

SA HOWARD K. RUTHERFORD -

PSI ELENO AGAPITO MAYOR

PSI TONY TAMARGO :

PSI VICTOR E. PASETTI

PSI MODESTO AGUIRRE

TP 48-S

1/15/64

1/21/64

1/21/64

1/24/64

1/24/64

SA FRED LIGARDE

. 88

*

Leads previously set forth by Tampa letter dated 1/22/64.

B

COVER. PAGE

DocId: 32199836

Page 7

---

## Page 8

TP 105-2157

Sources

Date Contacted

TP 124-S

TP

101-S

TP

83-S

TP 102-S

1/16/64

1/20/64

1/20/64

2/20/64

Contacting Agent

SA FREDERICK A. SLIGHT

19

PSI MARCELINO GOLAN

TP 52-S

TP. 140-S

PSI AMELIA SOTO

1/17/64

1/21/64

2/3/64

2/4/64

SA MOSES A. ALEMAN

TP 137-5

PSI JOSE

E. MARRERO

PSI LUIS DIAZ

TP 87-S

TP 138-9

PSI MARIO RUIZ

TP 136-PSI

PP 99-5

PSI ROSA MARIA REYES

PSI JOSE REYES

PSI MODESTO RUIZ

TP 57-S

1/10/64

1/10/64

1/14/64

1/15/64

1/20/64

1/20/64

2/4/64

SA CHARLES L. CAPEHART

18

14

•9P.

1/22/64

2/6/64

2/19/64

2/20/64

3/10/64

SA JOHN A. AMBLER

T.1

18

The following sources were contacted with negative re-

sults at Key West, Florida by SA RALPH L. JENSEN, January 6, 1964

RAMON DIAZ, 530 Williams Street, who is acquainted with the Cuban

rerugee element in Key West; January 20, 1964/FRANK HERNANDEZ

President of the San Carlos

nstitutel a Cuban social and fra-

ternal organization; January 22, 1964 PSI (UD) EDUARDO REXACH

Unsuccessiul attempts were made to contact JORGE RODRI-

GUEZ, JIdat his place of employment, Stock Island,

Florida on

February 14, 1964. It was determined he is a truck driver and

hauls construction material to all parts of the Florida Keys.

CIA, Mexico as of January

28, 1964 was unable to fur-

during the period from November 23 to November 27, 1963.

In the event any pertinent information is

CIA, Mexico the Bureau will be promptly advised

C

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32199836

Page 8

---

## Page 9

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MEXICO, D. F.

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

BUREAU

DATE

1/31/64

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/2/63 - 1/29/64

REPORT MADE BY

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED

GILBERTO POLICARPO LOPEZ, aka

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

entered Mexico at Nuevo

cuba, 11/27/63, as only passenger.

Copy of tourist card and

photograph of subject taken 11/27/63 obtained. List of individ-

vals entering Mexico with private automobiles during period

from 8:00 P.M., 11/22/63, to 2:00 A.M., 11/24/03, set out.

No additional pertinent information obtained regarding subject's

activities In Mexico during period 11/23-27/63.

- RUC -

ENCLOSURES

E

triEd

- SHONA

OMEWISE

one copy of Mexican Tourist Card F.M. 8 724553,

and one copy of photograph of subject taken 11/27/63.

APPROVED

GMB

COPIES MADE: /12

1

declassificen

3-16-94

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Bureau (Enc. 2)

11

Liaison Section)

12

Tampa)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

Mexico City (105-3750)

m: in document is prepared in response to your request one is not for dissemi

steine cour Committee.

Its use is limites to offen proceedings by

.: the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

hes ritcut the express approval of the fBl.

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

62-116-395-1394 and

18/97

56685L0/GCL

JFK)

DocId: 32199836

Page 9

---

## Page 10

FBI

Date:

12/9/63

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTOL

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Meshod of Mailing)

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM

SAC, INPA (105-New) (PALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

GILBERIO POLICARPO LOPEZ, AKa

HEREIN IS GMCLASSIFIDO O

Gilberta- Copez-Ródriguez

IS - CUBA

DATE 3-8-94 BY 9803 RDD/KSR

(00: Tampa)

(FFIC).

‚Reurcab to Legat, Mexico, 12/5/63, copy to VFO for

information. ...y

Photograph of captioned subject positively identified

this date by 7P 139-PSI as GILBERTO LOPEZ who was present at

gathering of Fair Play for Cuba Conmittee, Tampa Bay Chapter

(SPCC-TP), 11/17/63, in private residence, Tampa, Florida.

Informant

described

subject as white male, about

23, 5'7"

125 pounds, dark hair parted on leit side, light eyes, fair

complexion, prominent nose, high bridge, very neat clothes,

and spoke very little English.

Subject

was expecting telephone

call from Cuba that day in order to get word on his departure

for Cuba.

At regular meeting of FPCC-TP, 12/8/63, attended by

LIP 139-PS],

two officers of group remarked that subject had

made it to Cuba safely, according to telephone call from Cuba

received by one of them.

Indications were that he did not

like it in

the U.S. and wanted to return to Cuba. Also that

his mother was believed to be native U.S. citizen. No infor-

mation tying subject with OSWALD investigation.

LEADS

REC AB

Mex. cit

MIAMI

faced

3

-=

3/11/65

Bureau (RM)

insulate i

• Miami (RH)

10s

2

- WEO (Enc 1) (RM)

1 ~ Tampa

DEC 11

МАЛ: dh

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

(0)

mation, outside your Committee:

Its use is limited to official proceedings

vour Commitse and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI •

Approved:

Sent

- M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32199836

Page 10

---

## Page 11

6/2-23

PERSONAL ATTENTION

Director, FRI

CILBERTO LOPEZ RODRIGUEZ

TOP SECRET

IS • CUBA

5/25/62

Bureau Source

individual requested permission from Cuban

authorities to travel to

revealed the following L S

Cuba from the United States or Puerto Rico

Name: GIZPERTO COPLE RODRIGUE?

Address: 602 Fleming Ste, Key

West, 1106

Date of request:

3/21/52

Additional data:

Enery within 30 dous is authoriuce.

The above information is available to the Department of

State and, therefore, no investigation of subject should be initiated

solely on the basis of a possible violation of travel regulations.

Data from Bureau Source 67is for your information unless a check of S

subject's name in office indices indicates investigation is warrantea

due to a possible violation of a matter under the jurisdiction of this

Bureau.

Data received from Bureau Source 6 should be used for lead

purposes only and must not be included in any communication prepared

for dissemination. Neither should the fact that the Bureau is in

possession of such data be revealed to other agencies or individuals.

Poison

Palmont

shr -

Cstiahan

Conrad

Laloach

Ering -

Madone

Salivan

Aurel

Frotter

Tile. Room

Holmes .

Candy

This document is prepared in response to you request and is not for dissemi-

nation outsion your Commitise.

13a13 Comes

Its use is lineca to official proceedings by

nei without ihe express approval of the FBI .

and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized verson

10.

5-126149-X

ALL INFORMATION CONTAISA

HEREN IS UNCLASSIFIED

REC- 38

111110 ÷

EXCEPT WHERE SHORA

OTHERWISE

MAILED TO MET-

NOT RECORDED

JUN- 6 1962

COMM-FBI

1-103-8-84

1182 eUN

7.1352

Classified by

Declassify on:

ADR

ShEETYPE UNIT D

015117/98

DECLASSIFY ON 25X.

TOP SECRET

JA.

DocId: 32199836

Page 11

---

