# docid-32316525

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/25/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10348-10054

HQ

CR 92-5189-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 06/29/1961

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

ANTHONY PROVENZANO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/18/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

V9.1

DocId: 32316525

6

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-253 (Pier: 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

CRIMINAL INFLUENCE IN

INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD

OF TEAMSTERS,

LOCAL 810,

NEW YORK, NEW YORK

DATE

6/29/61

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/1/61 - 6/21/61

WILLIAM A. VERICKER

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

TYPED BY

pos

XXX

REFERENCE:

New York.

Report of SA WILLIAM A. VERICKER dated 4/23/61 at

•P =

ADMINISTRATIVE:

One extra copy of this report is being furnished

WFO, inasmuch as the National Headquarters of the International

Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT) 1s located in Washington, D.C.

Toll calls charged to Local 810 for the period

3/1/61 to 5/15/61 were received from the New York Telephone

Company. Subscribers of telephones to which calls were made

for the period 5/1-11/61 are being checked through investigative

leads in the case entitled "LUTHER WHITE; UNSUBS; OBSTRUCTION OF

JUSTICE-CONSPIRACY"

• Ni File 72-101, Bufile 72-1109.

Information concerning these subscribers will be reported when

available. Leads set out to check subscribers include only those

not being resolved in above captioned investigation.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92|5189-3

10

WUN

30 1961

Bureau (92-5189)

Miami

-

Newarli (92-993)

New Haven

Philadelphia

WFO

- New York (92-1883)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

1- cc Com Di. o/ aft. 0-6-D.

21.0161

COVER

PAGE

Date Fwd.

I-ce. Iv66

How Fwd.

By

42 JUL 12196RY

REG- 5

EX-116

DocId: 32316525 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-1883

ADMINISTRATIVE CONT'D

, POI MAX SANCHEZ, Newark DiVISIOn,

furnished

SA WILLIAM A. VERICKER, NYO, with Photostats of the office

layout of Local 810 and its electrical wiring system.

On 5/17/61,

SA HOWARD PHELAN, HOlmeS ErectriC Protection Co.,

furnished SA

VERICKER with information concerning the extent

of the protective

alarm system on Local 810's premises. This information has been

incorporated in the

file and will be used in the event a misur

of Local 810's premises is deemed feasible.

INFORMANTS

Informant

NY T-1

Date Contacted

6/26/61

PCI NICK KISBURG

NY I-2

6/21/61

PCI JOSEPH KANE

NY I-3

6/21/61

NY 2305-C

NY I-4

6/6/61

Detective JAMES P.

Contacted By

SA WILLIAM A.

VERICKER

SA WILLIAM A.

VERICKER

SA WILLIAM A.

VERICKER

SAI WILLIAM C.

NASH

CAPARELI, CIS, NYCPD

NY T-5

6/11, 21/61

NAX SANCHEZ

NY I-6

5/19/61

Former SA GEORGE

HARDER, Division of

SA VINCENT

MURPHY of Newark

Office

SA WILLIAM V.

HART of Albany

Office

Labor and Management

Practices, New York State

Department of Labor,

Albany, New York

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and I symbols were utilized in the report only in

those instances where the identities of the sources must be

concealed.

COVER PAGE

- 3

-

DocId: 32316525 Page 3

---

