# docid_32309667

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10300-10033

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-5701-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SNIDER; JAMES F.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

11/29/1963

12

SUBJECTS :

APR, ASSOC, RES, SHYLOCK ACT, NUMBERS ACT, RAID

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CATER, EXTUAL DOCUMENT

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

HW 45927

DocId: 32309667

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

FD-268 (Rev. 8-1-59)

FEDERAL

REPORTING OFFICE

NEWARK

TITLE OF CASE

ARMAND FAUGNO, aka.

BUREAU OF INVESTI

TION

REY

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

S6,7*8

NEWARK

11/29/63

10/1-11/20/63

REPORT MADE BY

JAMES F. SNIDER

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED BY

mpt

REFERENCE:

Report of SA JOHN J. CREAMER, JR. dated 3/14/63

at Newark.

-P-

INCLOSURES

TO BUREAU

•..=

Two (2) copies of a letterhead memorandum characterizing

informants utilized in this report.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NK I-I

NK 2228-C

NK T-2

NEWARK PCI STERLING GUY BOWEN

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

COPIES MADE:

@bureau (82-5702) (smal

I-USA, Newark

2-Newark (92-848)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-5401-19

REC: 46

EX-102

, DEC

3. 1963

AGENCY-

REQUEST RECD

DATE FWD.

650633/19

DISSEMINATION RECORO OF ATTACHED REPORT

defe - 12/1/13

+2

HW 45927

DocId: 32309667

Page 2

NOTATIONS

U.S. GOVERHMENT PRINTING OFFICE

16—76324-1

---

## Page 3

NK 92-843

Identity of Source

NX T-3

NK 2181-C

NK T-4

NK. 2251-04

NK T-5

Lieutenant FRANK DANIFLIO

Hoboken, H.J. Police Department

(who requested his identity be protected)

NK T-6

NEWARK PCI

LEAD

OTHER

4.

NEWARK

AT NEWARK, N.J:

Will follow and report current

activities of subject and his associates through contact

with informants and other investigation.

B*

COVER

PAGE

45927

DocId: 32309667

Page 3

---

## Page 4

NK 92-843

ANTHONY PROVENZANO 1s President of Local 560, Inter-

national Brotherhood of Teamsters.

He was recently convicted

In United States Distriet Court, Newark, New Jersey, for

estortion and is presently awatting to be sentenced.

APPEALIDE IBE CONCIGTON.

NK T-6 advised during June, 1963, that PROVENZANO

supposedly owns the tavern at s76 Duncan avenue, Jersey city,

New Jersey, Informant stated that prior to PROVENZANO's trla]

he visited this tavern two or three times a week and conferred

with FAUGNO, ROMED, and BILLY MACK. and they often would leave

together in PROVENZANO's Cadillac. NK T-6 further advised

that PAUGNO was being financed by PROVENZANO and the Teansters

Union in his shylock operation.

NK T-6 advised that FAUGNO. 1s operating with,

adjoining the bar.

NK T-6 stated that FAUGNO maintains two

guns in his desk draver and usually carrios a small gun in a

shoulder holster. NK T-6 said that number runners frequenting

the tavern at 376 Duncan Avenue turn in their action which is

placed behind a large hinged board that is used as a coat rack.

NK T-6 furnished the following license plates of the

automobiles used by various individuals who are associated. with

FAUGNO in the bookmaking and shylock business:

CAC 994

FWL 945

BIO 151

GZJ 667

CCT 324

GKA 378

FSB 174

GJW 102.

The records of the New Jersey Hotor Vehicle Bureau

reflect the following information concerning the above described

license plates:

5.

HW 45927 DocId:32309667 Page 4

---

