# docid-32205607

## Page 1

Date: 08/10/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : USIA

RECORD NUMBER : 1651000110036

RECORDS SERIES :

CASE FILE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USIA

FROM

TO

TITLE:

JACOBS, JOHN KEDZIE

DATE: 11/14/66

PAGES

SUBJECTS :

OSWALD, MARINA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS

: X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

POSTPONED INDEFINATELY

only portions oN Chis USTA orginated document relate to the Kennedy

Assassination. Those portions may be disclosed, but with parts postponed to

rotect personal privacy, as indicated by brackets and per Section (6) (3).

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DocId: 32205607

Page 1

---

## Page 2

JACOBS, Johm Kedzie

IOS-5076

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE Page he

During an interview with Robert W. Rushmore, IOS-15811,who has admitted to

engaging in homosexual activity from 1941 to present, he identified employee as

a close friend. However, he denied ever engaging in any homosexual activity with

employee or ever advising him of his, Rushmore's, homosexual proclivities.

Jacobs when interviewed by IOS/I advised that he met Rushmore in 1949 Or 50

while employed with VOA, NYC, and was his supervisor. Jacobs stated that he never

stayed avernight with Rushmore nor Rushmore with him. He added that Rushmore was

an artistic temperament and he could understand how a person might feel that

he had homosexual tendencies, but he, acobs,had never seen

anything which would

indicate Rushmore was a homosexual.

Employee's security file contains no information which would raise any question

as to his masculinity. A recent check of his name thru the appropriate fixex

government agency files was made with negative results. Rushmore has denied ever

engaging in homosexual activity with Jacobs and since there is no evidence or

allegation to the contrary, it is recommended that no further action be taken in

this case and that employee's security clearance under EO 10450 remain in effect.

HWSmoot 7/7/61

7112/61

Under the employee update program current NANC, police and credit

checks were conducted on employee.

Files of HCUA disclosed that in May 1964, John K. Jacobs, Boston,

Mass. wrote a letter opposing U.S. policy in South Vietnam, which was

printed in the Congressional Record. A review of the Congressional

Record containing this letter did not further identify Jacobs. The files

of HCUA also disclosed that a John K. Jacobs, Cheltenham, Pennsylvania

wrote two articles for Science and Society. The pertinent issues of this

publication were not available at the Library of Congress, D.C. Public

Library, HEW Library or Science Service Library.

Employee has been employed in State/USIA since 1948 and during this

period he has resided in New York City and Alexandria, Virginia. It is not

believed the above citations relate to employee and furthermore, the

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

DocId: 32205607 Page 2

---

## Page 3

JACOBS, John Kedzie

IOS-5076

P. 5

the information does not appear to be of any security significance.

Files of the CSC reflect that articles concerning John Jacobs

appeared in the "Washington Star" on 6/16/59, the&Washington Daily

News" on 5/5/59. The article in the Star was found to be non-derogatory

to employee and the pertinent issue of the News could not be located by the

Agency library representative.

The CSC files also refer to a

HUA citation for one John Jacobs,

not further identified, who was listed

as a member of the Board of Directors of the National Council of Arts,

Sciences and Professions in December 1952. This organization was

cited as a Communist front by the HCUA in 1954. The current check at

HUA did not reveal this citation for employee. Since the recent HUA file

search did not relate this citation to employee,

it is not believed the

John Jacobs referred to in this citation is employee.

Files of the FBI disclosed information concerning employee's contact with

Mrs. Marina Oswald, widow of Lee Harvey Oswald, alleged assassin of

President John F. Kennedy. This information was also recorded in

employee's file in 1964. Briefly, employee in February 1964 came to IOS

and related that shortly after the President's assassination, his wife wrote

Mrs. Oswald sympathizing with her plight and assuring her that the crime

of her husband would not be visited

upon her and her children. Jacobs stated

that his wife had never heard of Mrs. Oswald before this event, and wrote

the letter purely as a humanitarian gesture.

Several letters of correspondence

were passed between them and when Mrs. Oswald came to Washington to

testify before the Warren Commission she was invited to dinner at the Jacobs.

She accepted and dined with the Jacobs on 2/7/64.

Employee

advised the FBI on 4/24/64 that neither he nor his wife

ever received any requests or suggestions from anyone in the Soviet Union

to contact Mrs. Oswald and neither has had further contact with her.

Employee's wife, Catherine Jacobs, nee Altschuller, was born 12/25/21

at Sofia, Bulgaria of Russian parents. She arrived in the U.S. in 1938

and was naturalized as a U.S. citizen on 11/10/47. She married employee on

June 14, 1952 and they have four children. Limited checks on Mrs. Jacobs

in 1964 disclosed no unfavorable information.

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

DocId: 32205607 Page 3

---

## Page 4

JACOBS, John Kedzie

IOS-5076

P. 6

Since Mrs. Oswald was legally in the U.S. and as she was

cooperating with the government in inquiries concerning the President's

assassination, no action in this matter was deemed necessary by

IOS.

The remaining update checks disclosed no information on

employee.

Since the information contained in the HCUA files and the one

reference to an organization affiliation in the CSC files is not

believed to relate to employee, no further inquiry in this matter

appears warranted. Therefore, it is recommended that employee's

security clearance under E. O. 10450 remain in effect.

I OS/ E: HWSmoot:erl - 11/14/66

11-15-661

18/0/67

DocId: 32205607 Page 4

---

## Page 5

JACOBS, John Kedzie

IOS - 5076

Page 7

Mr. Jacobs is editor of America Illustrated. During the period September

2 thru 27, 1967, in his official capacity, he travelled to Russia and Poland. In

view of this travel to Communist bloc countries, he was debriefed in IOS/I in

accordance with established procedure.

Employee advised his official contacts in Russia and Poland were with

persons in the news distribution service.

He related a trip taken to a collec-.

tive farm in Russia with another U.S. Embassy employee. He asserted the

Russians were most insistent that he drink wine and he viewed the entire

arrangement as a perfect set-up for compromise. According to employee,

the other U.S. Embassy employee did have too much wine and became

intoxicated, therefore, he kept him close by in order to diminish the possibility

of his being compromised.

Employee stated that at no time was he ever arrested or detained by the

police, nor did he experience any personal difficulty with authorities of the

host government, other than noted above. He had no contacts with any per-

sons whom he knew or suspected of being intelligence operatives and he had

no reason to believe he was a target for attempts at penetration or compromise.

Employee added he is not engaged in any questionable activities or behavior

which might prove embarrassing and he developed no association with anyone

that might reflect adversely upon him.

Employee advised that since early 1960 he has been undergoing psycho-

analysis in an effort to reduce nervous tension and to live more happily and

productively. He feels that this treatment has been very productive and re-

warding for him. He is still receiving these treatments but he does not now

feel his visits are necessary but are rather an extravagance. Employee gave

permission for his analyst to be interviewed.

Dr. Edward J. Martell, psychoanalyst, who has been treating employee,

refused to discuss employee's case but did state he had observed nothing to

indicate a security risk involving MI. Jacobs.

Employee advised he has not seen or heard from Mrs. Oswald since her

unexpected visit to his home in the winter of 1964. Employee also stated he

has not communicated with any congressman or senator concerning the conduct

of the Vietnam War or the administration's policies in Vietnam. Employee also

denied ever being connected in any way with the National Council of Arts, Sciences,

Professions.

It is not believed the results of the above interviews require any further

inquiry or action, therefore, it is recommended that employee's security

clearance under

EO 10450 remain in effect.

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

Tos/Ewwshoot:rmb 1124/68

114168

DocId: 32205607 Page 5

---

