# docid-32423472

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER:

157-10014-10084

RECORD SERIES:

HEARINGS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

*11-H-03

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 05/10/1976

PAGES:

43

SUBJECTS:

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 55510 Date:

14-05-2018

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

ALPHA 66

CUBA

CENTRAL AMERICA

ARMY INTELLIGENCE

TRANSCRIPT

Top Secret

Consulted

Withhold

04/21/1998

Box 4

19.1

HH

55510

DocId: 32423472 Page 1

---

## Page 2

TOP SECRET

ORIGINAL

RATION

Vol. 1 or 3

To Criminal Sanctions

The hitch States Smate R 3023

NE ORMATION

Report of Proceedings

3/3122

AVISITY

Hearing held before

Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activitles

Monday, May 10, 1976

Washington, D. C

(Stenotype Tape and Waate turned over

to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL

3017 WILSON BOULEVARD

ARLINGTON, VA 22201

(703) 841-0800

TOP SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMA

IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SAN

on f/12/99

ON

HH 55610 DocId:32129472

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Phone (Area 2021 544-8000

76 0 00

03 20 9 2

WARD & FAU

410 First Strert, S.Ex Pashimaton, O.C: 20003

11H7 155510

DOCI

TOP SECREI

CONZENES

2

3

4

5

:c0 000i

T'ESTIMONY OE:

Milford Paul Hubbard

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

Page

PAGE

• 3

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET

WARD/smal

Priona (Ares 2021 544-6009

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Monday, May 10, 1976

6

8

9

10

C

12

14

C

United States Senatel

Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations with Respect co

Intelligence Activities

Washington, D. C

The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 2:15 o'clock

p.m. in Room 608, the Carroll Arms Hotel, the Honorable

Richard S. Schweiker presiding.

Prescot:

Senator Schweiker (presiding)

Also present:

Jim Johnston and Michacl Epstein,

Professional Staff Members:

16

17

410 Ensl Spires, S.6, Washinaton, D.C, 2000}

22

23

25

TOP SECRET

Doe

Page

---

## Page 5

Pa- no (Aras 202) 544,-600

H1H

TOR SEGRET

3

5

7

8

BROSEERINES

Senator Schweiker. Colonel, in accordance with tradition,

we swear all our witnesses, so will you stand and raise your

right hand, please?

Do you solemnly swear the testimony you are about to give

is the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so

help you God?

Mr. Hubbard.

I do.

Senator Schweiker..

Be seated.

Mr. Johnston. Would you state your full name and

address for the record, please?

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

27

10

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

Paye

---

## Page 6

Co

210 Fust Street, S.Ex Washington, D.C. 20003

3

4

7

8

10

1₴

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SEORET

TESTIMONY OF MILFORD PAUL HUBBARD

Mr. Hubbard. Milford Paul Hubbard, Rural Route :1,

Liberty, Indiana. The ZIP on that is 47353.

Mr. Johnston. And you retired from the Army as a

Lieutenant Colonel, is that right?

Mr. Hubbard. Right.

Nr. Johnston. With military intelligence?

Mr. Hubbard. Military intelligence.

Mr. Johnston. How long had you served in the Army?

Mr. Hubbard. At the time of my retirement I had 22 years,

six months, 15 days,

something like that.

Mr. Johnston. And when did you retire?

Mr. Hubbard. 31 March 1973.

Mr. Johnston.

What branch were you in in the Army?

Mr. Hubbard. Military Intelligence at the time of my

retizement.

MI. Johnston. Were you connected with operations

directed at Cuba for Army intelligence?

Mr. Hubbard. Yes.

Me. Johnston. And would you briefly describe the tint

period you were involved with those operations and the puri.

of the operations?

Mr. Hubbara. All right. This is fairly approximate.

August of 1962 to December of 1963, I was a member of the

Puerto Rico station, a subordinate element of Detachment i

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 7

*SEGRET

01*:

410 Fust Street, S.E, Washington, D.C. 20003

3

4

7

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

out of the Assistant Chief of Stafftfon Intelligence at

Department of the Army. I had three target countries, the

Dominican Republic, Haiti and Cuba:

Senator Schweiker. That Detachment 8 --

Mr: Hubbard. That's A for Alpha:

Senator Schweiker. + What does that mean, the three

countries?

Mr. Hubbard. We were broken down into teams. That was my

geographic area of responsibility.

Senator Schweiker Detachment A meant those three

countires?

ME. Hubbard.

No. Detachment A had a worldwide mission,

very small, very select group at that

time, working

directly

for the Chief of Staff, the Assistant Chief of Staff for

Intelligence.

Senator Schweiker. Of which, Army?

Mr. Ilubbard. Of Army, yes, sir.

Senator Schweiker. Do you know offhand, did this ultimarol:

go up the chain of command to a Lansdale in Operation MONGOOS:

above you, now? I realize we

are quing above your stast.

Mr. Hubbard. I understand General Lansdale was briefeu

on some of my material. I personally never briefed the

General. I am sure that someone out of the Pentagon, Detachlike:

A or the ACSI staff passed this information on. I was told

informally General Lansdale had seen some of the reports.

— TOP SECRET

---

## Page 8

410 First Street, SE, Withinaton, D, 6: 20003

2

3

5

8

9

10

11

12

13

74

15

• 16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

Phone

Senator SChwelkerky

Mr. Hubbard.

Yes:

Wasult, all primarily, Army?

Senator Schweiker. Everything there was Army Intelligence,

Ne. Hubbard. (Nods in the affirmative.) • Subsequently

the Miami station received Coast Guard small boat handlers,

but it was an Army effört. They were just sent in for?

support.

Senator Schweiker. And what was Detachment A worldwide

mission?

Mr. Hubbard. Sir, I don't know. It was strictly

compartmented.

Senator Schweiker.

Okay

MI. Johnston. What was your mission from the Puerto Rican

station?

Mr. Hubbard. Insofar as Cuba, we responded to requirement.

We never unilaterally initiated an operation. We responded

to requirements. My first involvement with the Cubans was in

response to a reguirement that picked up intelligence rumors

about a frogman operation against a Soviet sugar ship in

Sago La Grande Harbor, Cuba, and which there was something

unusual about this ship. This was immediately following ca.

British commander, Crabb, as I recall it, being - his body

being found a few days after attempting to investigate a

soviet ship in london. His body was found in shreds.

I received this requirement and through the spotters i

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 9

410 First Street,

Washington, D.Cx 20003

2

6

7

8

9

10

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

had recruited previouslynestablished contact with the Cuban

guerilla group which was known as the Second Front of the

Escambray, through a period of several weeks and, you know, the

dark meetings andiwhatever.

I was directed to meet one of the leaders of the Second

Front in Miami. We went to a Cuban safe house. There I was

Introduced to a leader, Luis Guitterez Menoyo. After some

seven hours of discussion, he agreed to let me interview this

frogman, but I had to agree to go by boat, blindfolded. At

that time I was not permitted to leave and go back and call them

and get permission.

I had to make a decision whether o

go or no go. So I did. I agreed. I was blindfolded. We

made a black entry out of Miami, past Immigration and Custons.

They kept me below deck so I couldn't see the compass.

We ended up on

small Island that I determined was

right off of Andros Island. They had a small base camp in

a former Portuguese sponge fisher village. The only thing

left was the concrete tanks and rode. They

used the

provide cover from aerial surveillance.

I interviewed the frogman, got the story, came back

some ten days, 12 days later, as I recall, The Washington

conmunity was flapping, where is Hubbard, at this point. Thi

report was favorably received, as I recall, ind I was directi

to maintain contact.

This Guitterez Menoyo never spoke English in my presence.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 10

C

C

ineton, D.C. 20003

2

3

4

6

7

8

9

20

12

23

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

I very definitely had the feeling he could speak English. i

also had a feeling he was not a man to be trusted. However, he

had a second in command, and I'm not sure of the name

I was trying to think of it -- Hueget. Ralph was his first

name. He was allegedly a graduate of Georgia Tech architec

tural school, a very sharp young man, and I dealt primarily

with him because of the language barrier.

I was sent

to Puerto Rico station because of French, to

work Haiti, and between French, arm and hand signals, and

English, I could communicate with Cubans.

But working with Hueget, they wanted us to support them,

US

being the United States intelligence community.

I should regress. Although I was operating under a

pseudonym, I very definitely let them know that I was military

as opposed to CIA because CIA had had the flap on the Bay of

Pigs. Menoyo had had many of the pecyle the CIA had trained

in the parachute school out on the Bay of Pigs thing, and they

were very bitter, guite bitter. So I let them know that I

was military support.

Well, through negotiations, with appro:

at

the Washington

level, we agreed to supply them small

arms, annunition, rations and medical supplies in exchange toi

permitting me to organize an intelligence net within their

unit, to send agents into Cuba to develoy a net within Cuba.

This was progressing quite well. I had picked this

Hueget as the team chief, to be the resident agent in Cuba,

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 11

Arel

WARD & FAUk

410 Fust Street, S. E. Washington, D.C. 20003

TOP SECRET

2

4

5

6

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

J 9

20

21

22

23

24

25

trained him, received word that

there were six boxcar loads of

supplies en route from Fort Bragg, North' Carolina, to Miami.

I advised the Second Front of this. Everyone received the

news

quite welcomely. In approximately two weeks I got the

word that no, we would no longer support them, to advise them,

and then I was placed in the awkward situation of saying

I told them we cannot support them, but maintain our good

relations.

As a sad note, the night that I advised them of it,

one of the Cubans became a little excited and pulled a knife

and proceeded to rip up a beautiful new sportcoat I had.

Senator Schweiker. Did you get reimbursed for that?

MI. Hubbard.

No, sir. I filed

a voucher, and never

heard about it.

I maintained this contact at a much lower profile. Thur

would have nothing really to do with us sincer we would

not support them.

Came up, and again, yentlemen, I do not know the tire

frame, President kennedy decided that not only would we ao:

support them, but he wanted them

stopped, and physically siv

because I had made two trips out there was the base cat,

the smaller islands off the coast of Cuba where we had estabi

caches and supplies.

I drew

a map and I don't know whether it was our dat! i

the British Navy -= the British were involved to some deji

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 12

TOP SECRET

went out and actually picked up the people, the eguipment

supplies, and carted them off.

that 1s when my eleuation --

well, I. was burned, to use an intelligence term.

They evacuated my family out of Puerto Rico and I was

evacuated out. I think it was either late November or early

December of '63. I had this one subsequent contact in' approxi-

mately January. or February of '64 when I was directed to go

to Miami to turn over Hucget to a member

of the Miami

team and make a personal introduction.

Senator Schweiker.

And who was that contact with, the new

man?

NADA PAUL

1O FuM Street, 5.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

MI. Hubbard. Xes, sir, and sir, I am not sure, but I

think I turned him over to a Captain Stein, David E. Stein.

Senator Schweiker. Did you have dealings with other

groups than the Second Front of Escambray?

Mr. Hubbard. Not of any

significance, sir. That was

primarily my unit. I met the leader of Alpha 66 on a one

time, personal introduction basis, Veciana. I had no dealivi

with Alpha 66. There was

a condlict betweon the Second Fro.:=

of the Escanbray

and the Alpha 66. They were both Iccruita:

men, support and money, and there was a rivalry besween the

two, each accusing the other of being pro-Castro, but misleas

the

American public

Senator schweiker. Well, you were financing in some way

the

Second Front of the Escambray, in other words, paying the"

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 13

410 First Street, 3.Ev Washington, D.C. 20003

2

3

5

7

8

9

10

12

13

14

25

26

27

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

tor information?

Mr. Hubbard. No, sirit think we goty

off quite easily,

the periodic wine and dine, take then out to dinner, pick up

the tab.

Senator Schwelker. That was it?

Mr. llubbard. That was about it.

Senator Schweiker. Well, who was doing a similar thing to

Alpha 662

Mr. Hubbard. As I recall, Alpha 66 was the bailiwick of

CIA, but they let Army nibble on the edges at the Miami station.

I think Miami had received words of hands off of Alpha 66. Now

I may be mistaken.

Senator Schweiker. They

said it was an Army operation.

Mx. Hubbard. Well, if that is the case, it would go

into the Miami station, and that was commanded by Duke Watlington,

Junius, J-U-n-i-u-s, Watlington, W-a-t-l-i-n-g-t-o-n.

Senator

Schweiker. What was his

position at that time?

Mr. Hubbard. He was the station chief, Miami station chie!

for Army.

Senator Schweiker. If it wasn't the CIA, as you thought

it might have been, why do you think it was the CIA station

ahat might have had Alpha 66?

Mr. Hubbard. Well, it would have fallen under his

jurisdiction, yeographic responsibility, sir.

Senator Schweiker. Well, I thought, as I understand your

TOP SECRET.

---

## Page 14

TOR SECRETR

you covered three countries, Dominican Republic, Haitt, and

Cuba s

Co

110 Fust Street, S. Ex Washington, D.C. 20003,

3

5

6

77

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

25

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Mr. Hubbard. Well, we often had dual coverage of

a country.

Senator Schwelker. Do you remember a person who might have

used the cryptonym Bishop; that might have had some dealings

with Alpha 66 or Veciana, Morris Bishop?

MI. Hubbard. No, sir. Most of us at that time, for

security reasons, we knew each other in pseudoname. Very

few of us knew each others' true name. But we had a man whose

true name was Bishop, but that was subsequent, I am reasonably

surc.:

Senator SChweiker.

lle was an intelligence officer, you wein?

Mr. Hubbard. Yes.

SenatorSSchweiker.

What department did he work in?

Mr. Hubbard. Sir, I don't know. He was not a member

of Detachment A, as I recall.

Senator Schweiker. Did he work out of Puerto Rico statis.l

Mr. ilubbard. No.

Senacor Scliweiker. Where might he have worked out of?

Mr. Hubbard. lie might have worked out of Panama. As

I recall Bishop, nis

name was Lynn, L-y-n-n, Major or Lieuten.

Colonel Bishop. But I think he was on the intelligence staff

in Panama.

Senator Schweiker. For the ARmy?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 15

Ca

2

3

4

6

7

8

9

20

11

12

13

24

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOR SECRET.

ME -

Hubbard.

Senator Schweiker. Do you recall what he looked like?

Mr. Hubbard. Yes, sir. He later servdd under me in

Vietnam.

Senator Schweiker. He did later serve with you in Vietnam

Do you recall did he look anything ilke that?

Mr. Hubbard. No, sir, he was bald.

Senator Schweiker. Okay.

Does that ring a bell with you on any peripheral contacts

you might have made during this period of time with anybody,

possibly somebody in the arms business supplying arms to the

exiles?

Mr. Hubbard. No, sir, but you mentioned arms. We haù

Castro's foliur Ambassador to London and Castro's first

Minister of Finance that was my source, Burns, William Burns,

carried dual citizenship, British and Cuban. He was Fabrique

Nationale's arms representative in Latin and South America.

Senator Schweiker. They were out of Belgium, were

they?

Mr. Hubbard.

Yes,

sir, Fabrique Nationale.

Senator Schweiker. Dous he look anything like that?

Mr. Hubbard. No, sir. But periodically I know that I

was going to use the cover on a trip into Haiti to intervie

or gain access to Duvalier, of traveling with Burns as his

weapons demonstrator. Burns, peIlodically on his weapons sel

trips would take someone who was proficient in the weapon

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 16

WARD A PAUL

410 First Strett, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

2

4

6

7

9

10

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

that he was pushing at the time, with some changes, this could

be Owen Darnell. He was a beached captain representing Lykes

Steamship Line, Puerto Rico.

Senator Schweiker. Lykes?

Darnell, D-a-I-n-e-1-1,. a beached captain?

Mr. Hubbard. He was a bona fide ship's captain, but he

was on the beach.

4**

Mx. Epstein. Was he working for you, Darnell?

Mx. Hubbard. He was a source of mine. As I recall, he

was born in 1908 in Colorado. He was married to a Cuban

woman. I think perhaps because of health reasons, bykes

Steamship line took him from the ocean-going vessels, and made

him their Puerto Rican chief. He was in charge of Lykes

Steamship.

Senator Schweiker. How do you spell that?

Mr. Hubbard. Lykes, Ly-*-e-s. It is a large steamship

line hare in the United States.

Senator Schweiker. You're saying it is similar. You are

not

saying'it is the same person.

Mr. lubbard. Yes, sir. The jai is too syuare, but

across the eyes, yes, sir. I am not

saying that it is, but

that is the only one that I can come up with.

Senator Schweiker. What was his role again at the timu

that you net him? In other words, what was he doing there?

Mr. Hubbard. He was spotting and assessing for me.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 17

5. Eu Washington; D.G. 20003

3

5

6

8

9

10

21

12

13

14

15

16

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

OR

senator scheike so ho did worklikd th your

Mr. Hubbard. Yes, sir. It was through him that I gained

access to the Second Front:

Senator Schweiker. Might he have had some dealings with

Alpha 66 or Veciana?

Mr. Hubbard. Sir, he very possibly did. When Veciana

would come to Puerto Rico, he would definitely contact Darnell,

I think that he stayed

at Darnell's on occasion.: That I cannot

say for sure, but my belief is he did.

Senator Schweiker. Is he -- do you know where he is

located now?

Mr. Hubbard. No, sir. The last I know he was in Puerto

Rico, San Juan•

Mr. Epstein. Is there any other name he went under?

NI. Hubbard, No, sir.

Mr. Epstein. Was there a code name that he used?

Mr. Hubbard. No. We did not assigne

pseudonames for

spotters

There was

no requirement. They were not operational

Senator Schweiker. Tell me what you mean by a spotter.

MI. Hubbard. All right, sir.

The operational cycle, the people in the field get a

requirement that has been generated at the national level, they

want to know something about a country. It gets down to the

field. Now, we take it and say, all right, who has got access,

who can get it. Well, most of us have spotters. We have

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 18

noton, D.C: 20003

2

3

4

6

7

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

29

20

21

22

23

24

25

& SECRET

recrulted, them because of thelf Involvement In community

activities, In a specifie group, Darnell because he was very

pro-American, very anti-Castro, quite vocal on it, in Puerto

Rico bedause he had a Cuban wife. I broached him cold and

said, hey, look, I represent U.S. intelligence. With your

connections I might have occasion to call on you, you know,

he signed a secrecy agreement, the whole works, and was quite

proud of his periphery involvement.. *

And he was the one that put me in contact with the Second

Front, and said, hey, I have heard some rumors about a frogman

action where the man was sucked up into the belly of the ship.

So he is the one that put me in contact with the Second

Front.

Senator Schweiker. And he would have had contact occasion

ally with Veciana, or he might have.

Mr. Hubbard. He might have.

Senator Schweiker.

You are not saying he did.

Mr. Hubbard. No.

Senator Schweiker. How about in terms of people you

worked with in your operation?

Would Bill Pauley have played any role, Willian Pauley,

former ambassador?

Mr. Hubbard. No.

Senator Schweiker. And a sugar owner from Havana who wud

in Miami?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 19

TOR

JEK Act 6

JFK Act 6 (3)

(1) (B)5

char

2

3

5

6

Mr Hubbard Not Anony colon no

Senator Schwelker.

Whaty about Julio Lobo? 1-0-5-8?

Mr. Hubbard.. I heard the name mentioned around the

Miand station.

Senator Schweiker. But notdealings directly.

No. Hubbärd., I personally had no contact.

Senator Schwelker. And a Robert Brown, who I belleve was

working with Intelligence, might have been Army Intelligence

at that time.

MI. Hubbard. No. If it 1s his true name, I possibly did

not know him.

Senator Schweiker. Now, there was

WARD MEAUL

410 First Street, SEx Washington D.C. 20003

8

9

10

12

12

13

14

15

16

19

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Mr. Hubbard. Havana.

Senator Schweiker. What can you tell us about him?

Mr. Hubbard.

Very little: I met the man once. He was

coming out when I was coming in. lle had a reputation of being

a real wheeler dealer, got a lot of things accomplished, but

I personally never served with him, for him, or no subsequeni

meeting.

senator Schwelker, In terms of setting up contacts,

might he have set up some contacts, say, with Alpha 66 before

you arrived in August of '62?

Mr. Hubbard. Sir, if he was in my role, he had an obli

to organize a stay-behind net, and he very possibly did.

TOP. SECRET

9

---

## Page 20

Ca

5

6

7

8

9

20

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

OMISEGRET

Senator Schwelker Excuse me a minute.

(Discussion off the recora.)

Mr. Hubbard.

You have a man working in the Department of

Justice who was

assistant at that time.

Mr. Epstein..

Who was that?

Mr. Hubbard:

Senator Schweiker.

And his first name?

Me. Hubbard.

Mr. Epstein.

What did he do at the Department of

Justice?

Mr. Hubbard. I think he is in Narcotics and Dangerous

Drugs.

Senator Schweiker. He was assistant to

Hir. Hubbard. He was

but he was his right hand

man:

Senator Schweiker. In?

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

Mr. Hubbard. In lavana.

Senator Schweiker. At the embassy.

so he was his right arm you say?

Hr. Hubbard. He was a stabilizing influence on the

as I understand it.

Senator Schweiker. What kind of - would

been

there have

somewhat

similar to the kinds of things you were doiny?

Mr. Hubbard. Sir, I don't know. I have never been invuiva

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 21

c:

410 Fist Street, SE Washington, D.C. 2000)

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

27

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

MOR DEGR

in the

Senator Schweiker.

Would part of their Job bexto l

Mr. Hubbard.

Senator Schweiker.

For you folks?

JEK Act 6

Mx. Hubbard. And I am sure he knew, the handwriting

was on the wall there, at that time, prior to Castro's takeover,

and I Imagine he was quite busy attempting to

(1) (B)

Senator Schweiker. Did you ever hear of a Cuban

intelli

gence agent by the name of Raul Diaz, D-i-a-z?

Mr. Hubbard. Sir, that is a fairly common combination.

Sanator Schweiker. It doesn't ring any particular

bolls as far as any activities or work you had?

Mr. Hubbard. Sir, I heard that there was one by that

name in the second Front that was allegedly a double agent of

Castro's .

Senator. Schweiker. In any of your work that you were

carrying on at that time, had you ever directly or indirocti:

come in contact with lee llarvey Oswald to your, knowledge, ariu.

to the assassination, in any wa?

Mr. Hubbard. No.

Senator Schweiker. Did you ever hear any of your Cuba:

friends talk of any contact they might have had with Lee

Harvey Oswald, or sources?

TOP SECRET

Pat

21

---

## Page 22

$30 First Street, S. Ex Waw

naton, D.C:

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Hubbard

The, Mlami connunity. was swarming withall

kinds of characters in those days.

So yeup there vast Americans

In contact, some of them willing to join up, and the soldier

of fortune, anti-Cómmunists.; There were any number of American:

down there attempting to join these groups:

Nor 80, far as

the name, no.

Senator Schweiker. If the photograph there is of Mr.

Darnell - I'm not saying it is, but if it is, would the

kind of contacts Darnell had be more with,you than with the

station chief, Watlington, in Miami?

Mr. Hubbard. As far as I know, he would have no

contact with Watlington, since he was in Puerto Rico.

Senator Schweiker. I see. He was stationed out of --

where was he living at the time?

MI. Hubbard. In San Juan.

Senator Schweiker. Okay. So he primarily would have been

under your jurisdiction at that time.

MI. Hubbard. Yes,

sir.

Senator Schweiker. In fact, you recruited him initially.

Mr. Hubbard. (dods in the affirmative.)

Senator Schweiker. Did he speak Spanish?

Mr. Hubbard. Yes, fluently.

Mr. Epstein. Uo we have the name of this company on the

record?

Senator Schweiker. Yes, Lykes Steamship Line, and they

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 23

NARD BRAUI

2

3

6

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

OR SEGRET

20

were operating out of where?

Me. Hubbard.

out of Texas, Galveston, I think, Galveston

or louston. It is a large steamship line.

Senator Schweiker. What about his political . not his

political philosophy but his general outlook?:

Mr. Hubbärd. Quite pro-American, very American, very proud

of it. He insisted on flying the flag off the balcony every

day on the compahy, grounds. He had four or five flagpoles.

As I recall, he was declared essential as a ship's captain

during World War II, even though he had a Naval conmission, and

he missed the war and he felt bad about it, even though he

made the Murmansk run and things like that.

Senator Schweiker. Well, he was out of the Navy.

Mr. Hubbard. He never served.

He hald a commission but

he never served.

Senator Schweiker. When you said a beach captain, I

used to be in the Navy, and I forget what that mdans.

MI. lubbarü. Well, he was no longer on a vessel. He was

onshore.

Senator Schweiker. But he had never had an active duty

assignment.

Mr. Hubbard. Not to my knowledge.

Senator Schweiker. He had a Resarve commission.

Mr. Hubbard. As I understand it, he heid a Reserve

Conmission.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 24

Street, S. C. Wasn

ington, D.C. 20003

4

6

77

9

10

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP

ECRET

Senator Schwelker s

Do you know how he felt about prelident

Kennedy at the time, what his feclings were?

Mr. Hubbard.: Well, because of his close involvement with

the Cuban situation, he was quite disappointed when the United

States policy would not support the guerilla movements anymore,

and especially when they had to police them up out of the

Caribbean. I was burned on. He thought we were definitely on

the wrong track.

Mr. Epstein. How were you burned on that? llow were

you personally burned on that?

Mr. Hubbard. Because I was the only American who had beon

to all of the base camps, and it had to come from me.

ME. Epstein. So you were the

guy that was

giving the

message.

Mr. Hubbatd. I was the guy that drew the map for

President Kennedy, Colonel Boydt, and I believe Mr. McCone

briefed President Kennedy, Or General Fitch, as I recall, with

the ACSI, and they took my map in and President Kennedy was

quite happy. ME. McCone, I believe it was Mr. McCone col

gratulated the Arny ACSI, said he wisheu it had been one w

his men as opposed to Army that had that degree of involveio..

Mr. Epstein. I don't understand the may.

Mr, Hubbard. I drew the map of all of the base camps :..i

the Second Front of the Escambray. That's the way the Bri

Navy knew exactly where to go and pick up these people ar.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 25

Win in enock

2

6

7

8

9

20

12

13

.14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

destroy the base camps and, the equipment

Mr. Johnston. What month of '63 Ras this?

Me. Hubbard. I have been searching

Mr. Johnston, Summer, early fall?

Ne. Hubbard. As I recall, I returned to Puerto Rico

fromia trip. I returned on Thanksgiving day of 1963. That is

when I know it and so did all of the people around me that

I was burned and had to get out of there.

Mr. Epstein, Excuse my ignorance on this, but what I

understand you are säying is that some point a requirement was

levied on you to draw

a map of where all the base camps were

that the Cuban exiles were operating out of.

Mr. Hubbard. Yes.

Mr. Epstein. That your understanding is that that map

was supplied to the British?

Mr. Hubbard. It had to be because they knew exactly

where to go from the Bahamas.

Mr. Epstein. And that thereafter the British, upoa: w

request of the American government, destroyed all the base

Camps?

Mr. Hubbard. The British were involved. I don't know it

the United

States Navy or Coast Guard was involved. I was in

the process of evacuating my family and keeping them hiäden.

Mr. Esstein. And that happened in November of '63?

Mr. Hubbard. November or early December of '63.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 26

ston: B.C. 20003

116

3

6

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOPIS CRET

Epsteinet, Can you relato. It in time to whether it was

prior or subseguent to the Prestdent's assassination?

* Mr: Hubbard. No.

Mr. Epstein. You say you left Puerto Rico on Thanksgiving

eve?

MI. Hubbara. No, I returned to Puerto Rico on Thanksgiving

eve =

Mr. Epstein. From?

Mr. Hubbard. From

making one of these tours with the

Second Front out to their base camps. I spent a week or ten

days out on that trip. I was the only one they had ever

taken out.

Mr. Epstein. This was

after the base camps have been

destroyea?

Mr • Hubbard. No.

Mr. Epstein. This was before.

Mr. Hubbard.

When I came back, the word was down that

President Kennedy had decided not only would they not support

them, he wanted the means destroyed from which they were

mounting these raids.

Mr. Epstein. From where did you hear that? How did you

learn that?

Mr. Hubbard. Well, that was -- everything we got,

operational, come by teletype out of ACSI, so I was given a

requirement, draw a map.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 27

TOP SECRET

24

4

5

6

8

9

10

11

32

13

14

15

16

27

18

410 first Street, 3. Ex Washington, D-C 20003

Senator Schweiker. How many base camps were there, roughly?

Mr. Hubbard. The major base camp, it is a small island

off of Andros on the west side that was the main camp.. Then

there were six subordinate, were not manned, but they had

supplies and caches set up on the northern coast of Cuba,

Senator Schweiker Then did our Navy destroy them? I

missed part of that.

Mr. Hubbard. As I recall, our Navy did not. I think the

United States requested the British because it was in the

Bahamian area, the British Navy responsibility.

Senator Schweiker. Now, you presented a map, and what did

McCone say?

I missed that part.

Mr. Hubbard. Mr. McCone turned to - I believe General

Fitch was the Army ACSI. He turned to him and congratulated

him on this and said that I wish that one of my men had

produced this instead of the Army:

Senator Schwelker. For having this kind of a map kind o

thing?

Me. Hubbard, For having the degrce of contact and estab

lishing the confidence where they would take me. Evidently hi

people had not received that degree of rapport after the Bay of

Pigs.

21

22

23

24

25

Senator Schweiker. And you're not sure when that meeting

with McCone occurred, roughly?

Mr. Hubbard. Well, it was in President Kennedy's office,

TOP SECRET

433010

DoDId: 32123172

Baye

---

## Page 28

TOP SSCRET

2

3

4

5

6

WARD

C

410 First Street, SEx Washington, D.Cx 20003

8

9

10

11

12

13

24

15

16

12 7

18

19

20

22

22

23

24

25

so it wasiin the late tall of 63.

Senator Schweiker. So obviously September or October of

163 it had to be.

Mr. Hubbard. Well, seaons have no meanings to me in

Puerto Rico. I am lost without my seasons.

Senator Schweiker. But you would say late fall of 163.

Mr. Hubbard. Yes, sir, Ild say laterfall of 163.

Senator Schweiker. You were in the President's office?

Mr. Hubbard. No, sir, I was advised of this subsequent

to the meeting.

Senator Schweiker. And who was there again, General Fitch?

Mr. Hubbard.

General Fitch. Well, now, gentlemen, this

has been several years, but I believe it was General Fitch,

the Army ACSI, Colonel Boydt, the Commander of Detachment A,

and Mr. McCone, and I was told that President Kennedy and the

Attorney General Kennedy were present,

the only two present

when this was briefed to the president, yes, we did have our

map showing these locations:

Senator Schweiker. And then they acted on that, and

you're not sure exactly when that came off, but as I recall

there was a frame, and they were raiding Cuban camps in this

country:

Me. Hubbard. Yes,

sir, and also off the coast of Mexico.

Senator Schweiker. Wouldn't a person like Darnell have

bech very upset about something like that I think?

TOR SECRET

1H15910

2120114

Page: 28

---

## Page 29

410 First Street, S.E. Washington, D.C: 20003:

HIH

nor tria

TOP SEGRET

26

3

4

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

1.5

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Mr. Hubbard. Oh, he was, he was upset:

Senator Schweiker, Well, I guess the Cubans would be.

Mr. Hubbard. Well, a lot of Americans that had Cuban

ties were.

Mr. Epstein. Who told you about the meeting?

Mr. Hubbard. About what meeting?

Mr. Epstein. In the President's office.

Mr. Hubbard. It would have come through Detachment A.

donit know whether Colonel Boydt told me, actually. I think

I received a teletype saying congratulations. President

happy. Or something like that.

Mr. Epstein.

ANd then you left, or had to:

Mr. Hubbard. I was, as I say, burned. They gave me a

staff job back at Fort Hollabird for a year to cool off.

Mr. Epstein. Have you had any contact with any of the

people you dealt with down there since leaving?

M Mr. Hubbard. Well, on the American

side, yes, in the

intelligence community.

Mr. Epstein. But none of the Cubans.

Mr. Hubbard. None of the Cubans, no.

Me. Johnston, Does William Burns look at all like this

picture?

Mr. Hubbard.

No:

Mr. Johnston. Are these men tall?

Mr. Hubbard. Darnell is.

TOP SECRET

1

Page

---

## Page 30

STOP SECRETE

127

hona (Ares 202) 544-6003

2

6

7

8

M. Johnston. How tall is he?

Mr. Hubbard

Darnell and I were approximately the same

height and build.

Senator Schweiker. Your height is about what?

Mr. Hubbard. About 6/1*

Mr. Johnston. Was Darnell, would you describe him as

athletic looking?

Mx. Hubbard. On the lean side, yes.

ME Johnston. How about Burns?

Mr. Hubbard. No. He was approximately 5'10", 180,

190 pounds, British father, Cuban mother, the better features

of both. He is a very handsome man, well educated, was

educated in England. As I say, I do not recall what position

be held first. He was Castro's Minister of Finance, and he

was also his ambassador to London, but I do not know what

sequence

10

11

12

13

14

16

16

17

18

29

20

21

22

23

24

25

Senator Schweiker. But he doesn't look anything like

that*

Mr. Hubbard.: No, sir.

Mr. Johnston... Did Darnell have access to Cuba

before the

shutdown in 1961?

Mr. Hubbard. Yes. He represented Lykes in Cuba. They

moved their base of operations from Cuba to Puerto Rico

When Castro took over.

Me. Johnston.

To your knowledge, did SNFE or Alpha

TOP SECRET

11H7

DocTo 301931791

---

## Page 31

bona (A/as 202) 544-6000

410 First Street, SEy Washington, D.C. 20003

THET

TOP SECRET

2

3

4

5

8

9

10

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

66 have chapters around the United States?

Mr. Hubbard.

• Yes.

Alpha 66 had a large chapter in

Chicago. They were getting a lot of support from the chicago

area, according to them.

Senator Schweiker. Did they have one, do you recollect,

in Dallas?

Mr. Hubbard. I have not heard of it, sir, or it I

did

Senator Schweiker. And you said you are not sure or you

don't know where Mr. Darnell is now, but at the time you worked

with him he was in Puerto Rico.

Mr. Hubbard. San Juan.

Senator Schweiker. The steamship company he worked for

was

headquartered.either/in Galveston: or Houston.

Mr. Hubbard.

Yes.

Senator Schweiker. Inithe course of when Daznell worked

for

you, was he on some kind of salary or retainer?

Mr. Hubbard. No, no.

Senator Schweiker. A volunteer?

Mr. Hubbard, Take him out to dinner once in a while, buy

him a drink.

Sonator Schweiker. THat was it?

Mr. Hubbard. Yes.

Senator Schweiker. So he wouldn't have been passing on

money to anybody in your behalf.

TOP SECRET

Pau

---

## Page 32

WARD & PA

Washington, D.C: 20003

HH 0510

4

5

6

8

9

10

12

13

14

15

16

11

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

29

Mr. Hubbard. No. There were no funds that transferred,

to the best of my knowledge, from the Puerto Rico station.

Senator Schweiker. Is it possible that at some later

point in time that Darnell might have been working for one

of the other agencies?

Mr. Hubbard, Possibly. You see, we closed up the Puerto

Rico station in just a matter of months after I pulled out:

In early '64, the Department of the Army closed out the

Puerto Rico station, and it was dormant for several years, and

then they re-established it.

Now, all of our coded assets, coded sources would have beet

up for grabs to any intelligence community that wanted to

register operational interest in them. Now, as late as three

years ago, I passed his name on to Navy intelligence as a

possible source for them to look up in Puerto Rico. Now,

whether they did, maybe he was under operational interest to

another agency and therefore could not gain access to him, I

don't know. I recommended that they contact him.

Mr. Epstein. Who in Navy intelligence did you deal with

three years ago, do you know?

Mr. llubbard." This was the Navy rap in Defense Intelligendo

Agency, Commander Huling, H-u-l-i-n-g, but I don't think he

took any action on it.

Mr. Epstein:

Why do you say that?

Mr. Hubbard. Because I think he was getting ready to

TOP SECRET

Lage

---

## Page 33

0-3

40510

TOP SECRET

30

2

6

8

9

10

31

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

retire and didn't want to be involved.

Mr. Epstein. You didn't hear anything more, afterwards that

led you to believe --

Mr. Hubbard. No.

Mro/Johnston. Did Burns and Darnell know each other?

Mr. Hubbard. I would think so from a previous association

in Cuba.

Mr. Johnston. Would you say they were close friends?

Mr. Hubbard. No.

Senator Schweiker. What would that association have been

11kely?

MI. Hubbard, Social. As a general observation, the better

educated Cubans and the professional Cubans, when they left

Cuba, did not come to the United States, or did not come to

Miami. They went to Spain, Puerto Rico, South America.

We got

the cane cutters into Miami primarily. Your educated people,

those with money, we had quite a few of them come into Puerto

Rico and later really take over. Within a year they were

Presidents of firms and now Darnell, by virtue of being marrie

to a Cuban, by virtue of his positions with the Lykes Line,

both in Cuba and San Juan, I'm sure their paths have crossed.

Senator Schweiker. Anything else?

Mr. Johnston. Were you in contact with Menoyo

in the fall of '63?

Me. Hubbard.

Yes:

TOP SECRET

Page

---

## Page 34

athingion. G.C. 20003

2au20

TOP SECRET

132

2

4

6

7

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Mr Johnston, Did he tell you about a trip to Dallas he

made in October of 1633

Mr. Hubbard. He told me of a trip, he had been on a

fundraising tour, perhaps Dallas was ong of them.

I do not

remember. It is feasible or possible.

Mr. Johnston. After the assassination of President Kennedy,

did you have any occasion to talk with either Burns or Darnel1

or Menoyo about it?

Mr. Hubbard. I would say that I saw all three of them

after that, and I imagine so because it was the topic of

conversation. I remember nothing significant about the

meetings.

Mr. Johnston, Do you know what the attitude of Burns or

Darnell was toward i

Mr. Hubbard. Well, most of them, were, you know, shocked

and in deep sympathy, wondering perhaps of newly appointed

President Johnston, whether he would support the Cubans, but

I remember nothing significant.

Senator Schweiker. In your work in that period of

tine, did you ever have occasion to go

into Mexico City?

Mr. Hubbard, Yes,,sir:

Senator Schweiker.: On what basis would you do that?

Mr. Hubbard. I think this was a lead through Darnell,

that a - this is rough

and off the top of my head - I belie

it was a niece of his wife, married to a native-born

TOP SECRET

Bar

---

## Page 35

1202

толо Pyand

C C

114

2

3

8

10

21

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

Polish citizen, representing Merck Chemical Corporation,

pharmaceutical house, who allegedly owned property that over-

looked the Soviet embassy, and I was sent down to take a look

at this property to see if we could establish listening

devices on their property into the Soviet embassy, and it was

a complete waterhole.

When I arrived In Mexico City, they

didn't live within two miles of the Russian embassy.

Senator Schweiker. The niece of his wife, married to ar

Mr. Hubbard. As I recall, a Polish citizen or a native-born

Pole, but now what citizenship, I don't know.

Senator Schweiker: (Who worked for an American company?

Mr. Hubbard. No, Merix, as I recall, M-e-j-i-x.: It was

a pharmaceutical

Senator Schweiker. Merck, Merck Sharp and Dome?

Me. Hubbard. Yes.

Senator Schweiker. You don't recall that name, do you?

ME. Hubbard.

You say all the records have been

destroyed, the dossiers?

Ne. Johnston. The dossiers haven't but the opecational

recoras have.

Me. Hubbard.

well, if you had Darnell's dossier

Senator Schweiker. Who would have it?

Mr. Hubbard. I say if it is still maintained.

Senator Schweiker. Who would maintain it, Army?

Mr. Hubbard. Well, see, they even disbanded the old

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 36

204

NH26-10

2

4

6

7

11

12

13

15

26

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

Detachment A. Now, what happened to the records when they

disbanded I have no idea.

Mr. Epstein. What was Detachment a's mission?

Mr. Hubbard. To respond to national level requirements as

to local commanders" requirements. We responded to Presidential,

Congressional and national level decisions of the department

heads, Department of the Navy, Army and Air Force.

Mr. Epstein. Was there an overall mission that you had

In Puerto Rico?

Mr. Hubbard. I am sure we had a mission statement, but

that has been coo many years ago.

Mr. Epstein. Was there a specific mission that you had with

respect to Cuba?

Mr. Hubbard. All right, specifically, yes. We had our

essential elements of information that we had to respond to

these requirements, the one I mentioned on the frogman, naturally

anything pertaining to missiles. We had a blanket type

publication, that is the Operation Treasure liunt, and this

was

a publication in which items of interest from Communist

Bloc in the line of hardware, anything from a

small arms

round to a MIG or Soviet vessels were wanted.

This was one

of the entres I used with the Cubans. If you can obtain

this item, we are

prepared, and it was specified in the

Treasure Hunt book, how much we could pay. I could give you

$10,000 for this, or a million dollars for that or whateve

TOP SECRET

Paye

36

---

## Page 37

20021

410 Fust Street, SEe, Washington, D.C. 20003

ITH

5ES10

3

4

5

6

8

9

20

11

12

13

1.5

26

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

34

this wasla very fine publication foz those of us in the

field.

Mx. Epstein. Okay.

Now, those two missions obviously

related to pe

No Hubbard. Any Communist Bloc.

Mr. Epstein. Intelligence collection.

Now, was there any counterintelliganco oporation that

was encompassed by your operation?

Mr. Hubbard. No, we came up with a vezy elaborate

assassination plan on Castro, but I understand that ran around

the Pentagon for about three days, put gas in the air conditioning

system, and I had a man to do that, but they didn't want to

do that.

Me. Epstein.

Was that an

assignment levied by headquarters?

Mx. Hubbarda

No, I just had one of these Cubans that

had come out long enough to be recruited, and went back in,

and he worked around the headquarters building as an alr

conditioning repairman. The same thing on the Soviet torpedo

boats.

I had the opportunity to pick up one of those in

respone to this Treasure Hunt. I sent this in, and I said

I only have really a few questions. If I can get it it woulú

require some degree of risk, but what do I do with the Russian

crew. Do I drop them overboard, kill them, do you want to make

them prisoners, do I bring the boat into Miami harbord, or

do I sink it or what?

TOP SECRET

Pame

---

## Page 38

TOP SECRET

35

4

6

8

9

10

21

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Mr. Epstein. With, respect to the assassination issue, the

air conditioning, was this a plan that was submitted to head-

quarters from your station?

Mr. Hubbard. I submitted it. I said, look, I have this

man that says he can do it. Do you want to follow through on

It? And they said no.

Mr Epstein. Did any more happen than that, on your

submission?

Mr. Hubbard. No. As Ixrecall, my return message was no,

weare not in the assassination business, to forget it.

Mr. Epstein. And that was the last you heard of it.

Mr. Hubbard. Well, I did, I forgot it.

Mr. Epstein. What was there within your overall mission

in Puerto Rico with respect to Cuba that would have led you

to believe that a proposal like that might have been found

acceptable?

Mr. Hubbard. Well, Castro is the bad guy. As I say, I

took this on myself to send this in. It was not generated at

this level. I said, look, I've got this guy that says he

can do it if anybody is interested, and they came back, no,

we are not in the assassination business, forget it.

Mr. Epstein. Do you know whether any other Agency

ever expressed an interest in that guy?

Mr. Hubuard. Not that I am aware of.

Senator Schweiker. This niece of Mr. Darnell's wife,

TOP SECRET

11H

Paye 38

---

## Page 39

mona (Area 202)

2 0 1

03

410 First St

1147

6

8

9

20

12

23

14

15

16

27

18

19

20

202

22

23

24

25

TON SECRET

36

married to a Polish citizen who worked for Merck and Company

and lived near the which embassy?

Mr. Hubbard. No. He reportedly lived near it. When I

got there I found out they did not, therefore denied us this

access that had been envisioned. The Agency expressed an

interest in being able to set up a listening device.

Senator Schwelker. So it didn't work out,

Ms- Hubbard. No. It was a complete flasco.

Senator Schweiker. The name there wouldn't have been

Charles Pack, was it?

Mr. Hubbard. No, it was definitely a Polish name.

Mr. Epstein, Are you aware of any assassination plans

involving Castro that were run by the Army?

Mr. Hubbard. No, personally I am not.

Mx. Epstein. Were you aware of any that were planned

of attempted by anyeof the anti-Castro Cubans that you dealt

with or had contact with,aapart from being facilitated by the

Army?

Mr. Hubbard. Well, that was through the second front

of the Escambray that we came up with the, this guy, the

air conditioning repairman. Now, they wanted to go ahead and

do it.: I said, well, we cannot help you.

Mr. Epstein. Do you know whether they went ahead and

tried?

Mr. Hubbard.

They couldn't come up with a suitable poison

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 40

7

8

9

10

$ 10 First Street, S.Ex Washington, C.C. 20003

12

113

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

1S ARE T T

О расти дом

TOP SECRET

37

the last I heard.

Mr. Epstein. Were there any other similar plans?

Me. Hubbard. Oh, the Cubans were always talking, you know,

they're going to try to shoot him, blow him up with minesaand

so forth, but it was 99 percent talk.

Mr. Epstein. Was this the only occasion on which the

Cubans solicited your help or support on an assassination?

Mr. Hubbard. On an assassination, yes.

Senator Schweiker. If we were to request the personnel

record of Darnell, where would we best go about it, in view

of the thing beint discontinued?

What would your recommendation be?

Me. Hubbard. I would start at the present Army ACSIS

office and ask what happened to the old United states Army

Field Activities Command? You see, the intelligence organiza-

tions changed names, and the last official designation was the

United States Army Field Activities Command, and they were

headquartered in the Hoffman Building.

Senator Schweiker The Iloffman, 1-0-f-f-

Mr. Hubbard. Right here in Washington.

Senator Schweiker. Now, in looking at that, how might

it have been broken down, under what kind of a filing system?

I know you are just guessing.

Mr. Hubbard. No, becarse sources had numbers and

alphabetical designation.

Puerto Rico was DUP, the letter

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 41

WARD &

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C, 20003

10

Dar Hide

8

11

12

120

14

1 5

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

designation. Now, his code number I haven't the slightest.

Senator Schweiker: DUP?,

Mr. Hubbard. And then some number.

Senator Schweiker. And then a number for his numerical

designation.

Me. Hubbard. And don't be surprised if somebody laughs

because that has been so many years ago, they have changed

coding systems, but they should have a record someplace.

Senator Schweiker. And the DUP was the coding system for

Mx. Hubbard. For the Puerto Rican station.

Senator Schweiker. Anything elso?

Mr Johnston. Yes.

When this one Cuban wanted to assassinate Castro and you

were told not to, did you then put him in contact with Burns?

Me. Hubbard. No:

Me. Johnston. Did you suggest that he contact Burns?

Mr. Hubbard. No. I tried to keep Burns compartmented.

Because of his background, he was much more intelligence, See,

the average intelligence source is pretty low level, let's

face it, and Burns wasoone of the better educated, and I kept

him compartmented. I was using him more against Haiti than

I was against Cuba. lle had access into Haiti.

Senator Schweiker.: What kind of job did Veciano do for

you as you recollect? Was it good, bad -

Mr. Hubbard. Sir, I never had any dealings with him

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 42

TOP SECRET

WARD

N

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

410 First Street, S.E.. Washington, D.C. 20003

22

23

24

25

other, than that one introduction.

29432

Senator Schweikers

through Darnell, really.

I see. so it might have been more

Mr. Hubbard. No, I would say through our Miami station,

Is Colonel Watlington, that was the commander, and you'd have

to go that route to find out about Alpha 66. As I recall, the

early days, Detachment A, Army, had contart with Veciana,

and CIA assumed interest. They just took it over, lock,

stock and barrel, and told Army to back off.

Now, please, don't pin me down, buttthat's my understanding

of what happened.

MI. Johnston. Were you ever contacted by Me. Lucey of

CIA asking for the individual you had contact with in

Puerto Rico?

Mr. Hubbard. Possibly, when I returned there were

numerous calls and trips to Washington from Hollabird for

various reasons. Very possibly.. The name does not ring

a bell.

it. Johnston. Let me ask you one final question.

Mave you ever heard of a businessman named George

Deilorenschildt in the Dominican Republic, oil interests?

Mr. Hubbard. No.

Mi. Johnston, Were either Darnell or Burns in any way

tied into the oil business.

in the Gulf?

Mr. Hubbard. Hell, Darnell possibly through his position

TOP SECRET

HH 55510

Docid

23172

Page

12

---

## Page 43

C C

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

26

17

18

t0002-7Ouolhuuiy N15 G90/9 110%

20

22

23

24

25

TALL

DACTS 121122

TOP SECRET

39

other than that one introduction:

Senator Schweiker.

I see. So it might have been more

through Darnell, really.

Mr. Hubbard. No, I would say through our Miami station,

1s Colonel Watlington, that was the commander, and you'd have

to go that route to find out about Alpha 66. As I recall, the

early days, Detachment A, Army, had contact with Veciana,

and CIA assumed interest. They just took it oves, lock,

stock and barrel, and told Army to back off.

Now, please, don't pin me down, buttthat's my understanding

of what happened.

Mr. Johnston. Were you ever contacted by Mr. Lucey of

CIA asking for the individual you had contact with in

Puerto Rico?

Mr. Hubbard. Possibly, when I returned there were

numerous calls and trips to Washington fron Hollabird for

various reasons. Very possibly.: The name does not ring

a bell:

Mr. Johnston.

Let me ask you one final question.

Have you ever heard of a businessman named George

DeMorenschildt in the Dominican Republic, oil interests?

Mr. Hubbard.

NO.

Mr, Johnston. Were either Darnell or Burns in any way

tied into the oil business in the Gulf?

Mr. Hubbard. Well, Darnell possibly through his position

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 44

B

11

12

13

14

15

816

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

1×92

TOR SECRET

14 0

in the shipping field. Burns, Burns was the man with

considerable means and was making investmonts. Darnell had

only his income from his - he was a common working man, really,

had no outside source of income. Burns was quite a wealthy

man.

Mr. Epstein. You were still stationed in Puerto Rico at

the time of the assassination.

Mr. Hubbard, Yes.

Mr. Epstein. Do you recall any requirements or assignments

being levied on your operation at that time for information

or investigations for intelligence relating to the assassinatios

of President Kennedy?

Mr. Hubbard. No, I do not recall.

Mr. Epstein, What I had in mind specifically was do you

recall ever being requested or instructed to contact any of

your assets of sources to determine whether or not, A, they

had apy information bearing on Cuban Government responsibility

for the assassination, or B, Cuban exile responsibility for

the assassination.

Mr. Hubbard. I do not recall that requirement being

Levied. It is possible, but no, I do not recall it.

Mr. Epstein.

Did any information ever come to your

attention indicating either the Cuban Government's responsi

bility for the assassination or the responsibility of cuban

exiles, or Cuban

sile groups for the assassination of Presiden

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 45

Phone (Aven 202) 344-

76000

0320 1

WARD &

920 Fun Street, SEe

Washington, D.Ct 20003

TOP S CRET

Kennedy?

Mr. Hubbard. No.

Senator Schwelker. I guess that is all we have.

Colonel, we thank you very much for coming, and we hope

we did not disrupt your personal life too much..

Mr. Hubbard, You got me off a tractor, sir!

(whereupon, at 3:12 o'clock p.m. the interview in the

above-entitled matter was concluded.)

6

77

8

9

10

11

12

13

114

15

16

17

18

1.9

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

---

