# docid-32294181

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10212-10457

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-110055-3RD NR 53, 4TH NR 53

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, SJ

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/26/1971

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

ELC, ACA, MEMBERS, RCK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF DIA

COMMENTS : INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

DocId: 32294181

Page

9

---

## Page 2

SJ 105-13034

CONFIDENTIAL

CONSIDENTIAL

on 12/24/70,

SA PATRICK W. MURRAY contacted the

following sources familiar with some aspects of cuban acti-

vities in Puerto Rico, with negative results, regarding

subject:

SJ 492-9

SJ 613-S

SJ 627-S

666-S

SJ 750-5

For the information of the Bureau, during inter-

view of RUBEN CASALY CAMPOS, San Juan file 105-13033, on

2/10/71, whose name was also brought up in connection with

this matter, CASAL CAMPOS indicated that he did know this

subject, and that BARANDELA, along with other unidentified

subjects had gone to Miami, Florida, with the intention

of obtaining backing for an expedition into Cuba.

stated that they were unable to do this, and has

to Puerto Rico. He could not, or would

ployment or address for the subject.

BARANDELA waS connected

with "NINO" DIAZ previously.

A review of San Juan indices reflects a reference

to a (ENU) BARANDELA in San Juan file 105-5955, Bufile"

105-110055, and reported in Miami IHM, dated 10/23/59, in

that this (FNU BARANDELA was working

with "NINO" DIAZ

attempting to collect money for the Ejercito Libertador de

Cuba (ELC) (Cuban Liberation Army).

San Juan indices fur-

ther contain various references to

a Captain RAUL BARANDELA

ESTEVEZ, having had various contacts with the ELC throughout

the 1960s.

It is pointed out to the Bureau that in Miami re-

port, dated 5/18/62, entitled piercito libertador de Cuba,

IS-Cuba," Bufile 105-110055, Page 6, a list of the names

of followers of HUBER MATOS

and naval guards who escaped

from El Morro prison, and on 10/16/60 arrived in the United

States,

contains the name Captain RAUL BARANDELA ESTEVEZ,

as well as RODOSVALDO LLAURADO RAMS, DIONISIO SUAREZ ESQUIVEL,

ana ROBERTO COBAS ALVAREZ.

2

-

SONFIDENTIAL

CONCOCUTIAN

DocId: 32294181 Page 2

---

## Page 3

GORHUENTTA

CONFIDENTAL

SJ 105-13034

The previousLy furnished Dia report inaicates thi

names of

he four individuals who told a Iriend that thei

were going to cuba, were purportedly, ex-captain dost

ex-Lieutenant (ENU) LLAURADO:; ex-Captain MACEO,

same file, Page 7,

at Miami,

Florida,

he advised that he is known as Lieuten-

ant MACEO, and was

a member of the ELC.

It would appear likely that the above indivi-

duals are identical with the individuals contained in

DIA report, number 5 705 0052 70.(6)

San Juan indices further reflect that RAUL BARANDELA

LEsTEveZ was the subject of san Juan file 25-23163, during

1967, for failure to register for the draft within six

months after entry into the United States.

BARANDELA haS

INS Alien Registration All 879 354, and is reflected as

having been born 4/28/34 at Oriente,..

Cuba, He is listed

as having entered the United States at Miami, Florida, on

f. R

5/1/61.

Contact with established sources at San Juan,

Puerto Rico, has failed to indicate that the eLc is currently.

active, or that there are any groups currently lormulating

plans for an attack on the regime of FIDEL CASTRO.

JACB, no further action being taken in this mat-

ter by san Juan.

- 3*

CONEIDENTIAL

DocId: 32294181

Page

---

