# docid-32286546

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10195-10322

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-11305-21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

COLARELLI, THOMAS L.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/11/1969

PAGES: 26

SUBJECTS :

JAMES, DONALD LESTER, REL, ACT, INVEST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2

v9.1

DocId: 32286546

3

Page 1

---

## Page 2

7219-671

TIT. FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIÓN S

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

DONALD LESTER

AMES, aka;

ET AL

DR. SALVATORE CARUSO, aka;

ET AL - VICTIMS

DATE

12/11/69

REPORT. MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

8/1 - 12/2/69

SA THOMAS

Id.

COLARELLI

CHARACTER OF CASE

POSSIBLE ITSP

TYPED BY

vh1

5

REFERENCE:

New Orleans report of SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI, -

10/17/69.

-P-

INFORMANTS:

CON VIC.

AUTO.

PCI JOHN MEREDITH advised on 10/25/69, that he

does not know DONALD LESTER JAMES personally; however, he

is acquainted with JAMES' brother-in-law, TERRY JOE NORRIS.

He stated NORRIS is allegedly employed by Oatis Engineering

Company; however, this is a cover for his criminal activities.

NORRIS will engage in any type of criminal activity, from

narcotics to burglary. Informant stated he recently met

NORRIS at the Playboy Club in Hattiesburg, Miss., and NORRIS

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

= NONE

ACQUIT-

CASE HAS BEEN:

FUG.

FINES

SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

TALS

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR L]YES DINO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

YES DINO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

сяк пі

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Bureau (92-11305) (RM)

Departmental

Attorney

KEITH E. GISLESON,

NO

-

Atlanta

(87-15799) (RM)

-

Jackson (92-248) (RM)

- New Or leans (92m102e)

92

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

11305-21

REC 56

5 DEC 19 1969

Dissemination Récord orlAndched! Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Pate Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

38 JAN 5. 19701

STAT

GPO: 1968 0 - 299-885

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32286546

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-1029

showed him a quantity of loose diamonds and attempted to sell

some to him.

Informant stated that NORRIS told him that he

has a safety deposit box in a bank in Hattiesburg where he

sia can so Li hat.

keeps the diamonds until he can sell them.

Informant stated

NORRIS claims to have thirty-two bars of

gold for sale, but

informant does not know if this is true.

LEADS:

Copies being furnished to Atlanta and Jackson

as those

divisions have outstanding investigation in this matter.

NEW ORLEANS

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. Continue efforts to

locate and interview SIDNEY KERN: and JESSIE CHEHARDY.

2. Maintain contact with Departmental Attorney

KEITH E. GISLESON, New Orleans regarding possibility of

subpoenaing PROVENZANO and LEGAN before FGJ, New Orleans.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Investigative period of instant report overlaps

that of referenced report as investigation by auxiliary

offices not available prior to submission of referenced

report.

This matter has been

discussed with Departmental

Attorney GISLESON:, on several occasions, the last time being

12/2/69.

He advised that he is in favor of subpoenaing

both PROVENZANO and LEGAN before FGJ, but because of his

relative tenure as a Departmental Attorney.

He contacted

his superiors in Washington, and they did not express any

enthusiasm for this type of

action, stating that they felt

that this was "abuse of process"

, which the RAMSEY CLARK

Administration adopted as policy, i.e. in bringing potential

defendants before Grand Jury where a substantial case could

not be proven.

He stated he was in the process of preparing

a memo to his superiors pointing out that it was highly un-

likely that any prosecution at all could take place and it

would be better to bring PROVENZANO and LEGAN before the

Grand Jury. In hopes of perjuring or immunizing in an attempt

to develop a prosecutive case against JAMES and other two

Unknown subjects could be identified with the cooperation

of either PROVENZANO or LEGAN.

• B*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32286546

Page 3

---

