# docid-32205098

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/26/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

LBJ

177-10002-10083

PAPERS OF BROMLEY SMITH, 1963-DECEMBER 1964, BOX 1

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Note).

Case#:NU 56829 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: WH

FROM: BROMLEY SMITH

TO : THE PRESIDENT

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

01/30/1964

NEED SUBJECT ASSIGNED

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

DOC. #198

v9.1

NW 56829

DocId: 32205098

Page 1

9

---

## Page 2

198

-...

SECRET

January 30, 1964

MIMORANDUM FOR THE PRESIDENT

SUBJECT: Your meeting with the President's Foreign Intelligence

Advisory Board at 4:00 PM today

Mr. Clark Clifford, who has been Chairman of the Foreign Intelligence

Advisory Board since April 1963, will introduce his Board menbers

and explain the work of the Board.

Mr. Clifford plans to summarize the Board's recommendations on

how to improve counterintelligence activities, including proposed

revisions of the existing procedures aimed at preventing the Russians

from penetrating our intelligence organizations.

The group is advisory to you and you can use it at you see fit. One

of the major tacks it undertock for President Kennedy was to dig

deeply into how the intelligence agencies aperated in the Cuba situa-

tion.

The Board is in a position to make independent judgmentsfor

you as to how well our foreign intelligence work is being done.

Suggested questions:

1. Would the Board report to me on how the intelligence

organizations, especially the military agencies, are re-

flecting my current instructions to economise and hold

down the number of government employees?

2. Would the Board suggeet to me ways of speeding up the

work which is now going on aimed at consolidating intelli-

gence activities and ending overlapping activities?

3. Does the Board have a view as to whether Congress

neede to low more about our intelligence activities than

is now provided to the appropriate committees?

Bromley Smith

SECRET

NY 56829

DocId: 32205098

Page 2

---

