# docid-32293693-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10211-10469

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE : 02/17/1960

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

DLH, ASSOC, EMP, MIL SERV, MED/PERS HIST, RES

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC MEMO

v9.1

14

---

## Page 2

SECRET

MAILED 10

Tổlson

Mohr

Parsons

Belinont

Callahan

DeLoach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C.

Gandy

COMM-FBI

1a Jo Do DonaMee

1 = Linton

SAC, New Fork (134-4214)

REC- 9

(137-8502) - 9

March 2, 1960

# 211376

Directors

Classifies. 1y

sockstly an /o8en 3752/185

ANETTE SYLVIA EPSTEIN, Old.

IS - R

SID \152

395143-26-416

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLO/ASE

Reurlet 2/12/60. (6)U)

DECLASSIFY ON: 25x

56b8340 mile 12/n/aa

Authority granted to recontact subject tor

further her development as an informantlor double

agent for use against the Soulets in New Vorko (5)

You should make certain

that subject la

quare that her cooperation with us is e voluntary

watter on her part.

She should be aware of the fact

that she is not a Bureau employee. Your contacts

with her should not be conducted at any institution

of learning,

it being noted that she isod public

school teacher in New Vork City. (U

In view of subject's possible personal

involvement with soulets, who have been assigned

to the united Nations in New York and the fact theis

subject has expressed an interest to clear her

name" you should be caraful to avoid disclosure

to her of uny signiticone detail of our interest

En any particular sovieto You should endeavor to (S

verify any infornation she furnishes us, particularly

during the early steps of her development. You

should make certain that subjeot is not a plant and

vour handling of her should be in accordance with

Section 107, Manual of Instructions

ALL INFORMATION CONTANICO

*ASSIFIED

LuL: bem

(и)

130551

INENE SHOWN

(5)

FizibItWiSE

Note:

subject is single female teacher in public

schools of NYC.

She

is a former teacher of English,

•Berlitz School on Neu York.

While so employed she

taught English to several soviets assigned to the UN. S

She was being considered for

4 20536201

involving

teaching English to Soviets assigned

don the.

Amtorg

Trading Corporation in 9/59.

She has

social acquaintance with soviets from

continued hets)

9/59

(see note gonto page 25] (U)

F/57

OMAN TO TUEUELETYPE UNIT

---

## Page 3

Letter to SAC,

Re:

134-8502

A to sa sulta Datein (U)

[vote continued: ]e(u)

-departing the U.S. 1/27/60, came toher apartment, brought

acquainted with two soviets

in unom we have a substantial

current investigative interest.

These are Leonid Rovaleu

and Yuri Mishukor, who are both employed at the UN.

SecretariatI It is believed that subject has potential (5)

as an informant and we should take advantage of her

apparent willingness to furnish information,

but it is

believed that vY should be specifically cautioned as above

in view of the personal interests subject has in endeavoring

to clear her name as well as her personal interestin

soviets. subject's uncle was the subject of a security(s

of government employees investigation and there is

derogatory information on him and some of her relatives.

She is apparently uncuirinof subversive infornation

regarding her relatives. She has applied for positions

with the state Department and with the Department of

Defense and has not received favorable consideration.

She is concerned about this but there is no indication

that she has been denied employment because of derogatory

security information:

# 70(4)

2 - SECRET

---

## Page 4

'SECRET

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

MEMORANDUM

TO

FROM

: DIRECTOR, FBI (134-8502)

: SAC, NEW YORK (134-4214)

ANNETTE SYLVIA EPSTEIN aka

IS-R

DATE: 2/17/60

SUBJECT:

3.20-46c7

CLASSIFIED BY 5681 ED

ReBulet 12/28/59.

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X 1

on 1/21/60, subject was interviewed at her stence,

345 West 88th Street, Apartment 7-E, New York City, by SAS

WILLIAM V. SCHMALTZ and RICHARD W. HILI.

This interwew was

not pre-arranged with the subject, and after approximetely

30 minutes the subject stated she would have to leave as she

had a prior appointment.* (u)

on 1/28/60,

the

interview with the subject was

completed by SAS FRANKIN E. INaR and ZICHArD W. Hitlu)

The Bureau's jurisdiction regarding the Internal

Security of the United States was explained to the subject

and ter aperation was solicited in that restral y

8,9,10

1

1

- Bureau (RM)

• New Yosla

105-13781 Sub E)

New

York

105-31308)

(GRYAZNOV.)

-

New York

105-20553

FEDORCHENKO!

Declassify O

DADR 3422/8

# 211,376

1118:1:

New

York

105-12456

105-22603)

IVANOV)

New

York

(105-30803)

LEVYTCHKEN)

New York

New

York

105-27651

UDOVICHENKO)

KOVALEV)

New

York

105-27649

New

York

( MISHUKOV)

New

York

(105-32886)

( GARRIGUE

: I H0AAS81

WINSHE SHOW

A CASAWISE

(134-4215)

-

(Administrative)

New York

(105-37990) (HARBER)

-New York

(105-New), (AMERICO SALEBE )

- New York

(105-New)

(ED PYDE"

New

York

105-37955

(BERBERI)

New

York

134-4214

REC-54/34-8532

• New

York

(134 4214)

Administrative

(Investigative

NEB

RWH: cam

(18)

108

(1) 380

3/1/60

SECRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

NiX 234-4214 6014)

She related that she is presently employed by the

New York City Board of Education, teaching the Sil and 9th

grades at PS 135, Bronx, New York. She stated that she

contemplates moving to her parents residence,

3871 Sedgwick

Avenue, Bronx, New York, in a week or so since it takes too

lonz for her to commute

for her work in Manhattan where

she has resided since October, 1959.

Subject said that she had been employed as en

English teacher by the Berlitz School of Languages, kockefeller

Center, New York City, from January, 1958 to March, 1959, [and

that she had met several soviets in the course of this

employment.

the soviets are: 5)

fm

PEDOSIY

Belo

United Nations)

IVAN YAKOVLEVICH FEDORCHENKO

(Was First Secretary of Soviet Delegation to the

United Nations)

BORIS SEMENOVICH IVANOV

(Was Counselor of the Soviet Delegation to the

(S)

(5)

United Nations and is a known agent)

(S

KLIMENT DANILOVICH LEVYTCHKEN

(Was Deputy Permanent Representative of the Soviet

United Nations Delegation)

PETR PLATONOVICH UDOVICHENKO

(Ukrainian Permanent Representative to the

(S)

United Nations)

- 2-

SECRET

---

## Page 6

(SECRED])

(v)

[NY 134-42147 4)

In addition she stated that she had taught severa.

of the Soviet's wives but that they were very timid and non-(5)

déscript, and she could not recall their names. a?

She said that she first met FEDORCHENKO In February, (S)

1958 and saw him almost daily at Berlitz thereafter.

after meeting him, she stated that she, JORRIE GARRTOUS,

BURTON VAN HORN FOREMAN, and occasionally. ED PYDEs

Berlitz teachers, would take coffee breaks with Herowdlenn an

BORIS IVANOV. Then in May, 1958, GARRIGUE, PYDE, aNd FONGMAN S

accepted an Invitation to accompany (IVANOV and FEDOFCHENKOY 5)

to the Russian Tea Room, West 57th Street, New York City,

after classes at Berlitz (p)

EPSTEIN continued to see FEDORCHENKO frequentIfS)

at the Beriltz school.

She next saw him socially at a

gathering at the home of Madam (FNU) LEVITSKY (PH), on

West 73rd Street, New York City, one night In June, 1958.

She, GARRIGUE, FEDORCHENKO, and IVANOV attended at FOREMAN'S (5)

invitation.

She said the group there consisted of amateur

musicians who played together for their own pleasure.

She

said she

did not know anyone else there or had been there

since.

Also In June, 1958, FOREMAN gave a party at his

apartment at 160 Claremont Avenue, New York cIty, which

EPSTEIN attended.

She said that[IVANOV had been unable to s)

come and had sent (LEONID KOVALEV in his place. FEDORCHENKO, S

GARRIGUE

and subject attended as well as some of

friends, whom she cannot now recall.

She stated that

Sing natal that in a vi can out sere a (=)

HARBER became very drunk and disorderly.

-3-

SECRET

---

## Page 7

SECRED

[r 234-42478 8(u)

In August or September, 1958, EPSTEIN said that she

gave a party when she had an apartment

at 120 West. 73rd Street.

She said that she called KOVALEV at the United Nationsland S

invited him,

requesting him to bring some of the other Sovietss

as they would be an attraction at the party. She stated that

FOREMAN, GARRIGUE, HARBER, and his roommate AMERICO SALEBE

were there. _KOVALEV came

and brought YURI I. MISHUKOV and

BORIS (LNU)

was away at the time.

She said that her roommate, then EMMA BERBERI (5)

There were approximately 50 people

there,

some of her friends from college and later acuuaintances.

he stated that she had noticed/MISHUKOV listening to a s

heated discussion in Spanish by two Latin Americans with

particular interest but does not now recall who these people

were or who invited them.

She explained that she had asked

her friends to bring people to the party so that she doubts

whether she met all of her guests.

Toward the end of the

party she said that one of the Soviets suggested that thest S

play a Russian party game.

The game turned out to be "spin

the Bottle", and the Soviets]showed surprise when told its

was an old

American game.

She sald that the Soviets (then,

rather self-consciously acknowledged that it had been a

joke. She could recall no other details of this party.

She stated that she had gone to Europe for a

vacation in June and July, 1958 and had visited her uncle,

NELSON CHIPCHIN in Nuremberg, Germany, where he is employed

by the USIA, and her

aunt, LIsA RoSenBERG, Howara Hote,

London, England. (5) (4)

She saw FEDORCHENKO sometime in the Fall of 1958 S

and he inquired what she had been doing; she said that she

told him of her trip

, to Europe and of her visits to her

aunt and uncle.

'SECRET

-4-

---

## Page 8

SECRET (X)

и)

NY 134-4214

EPSTEIN does not

recall having seen FEDORCHENKO (S

or any Sovietslagain estival of Music and Dance at Madison

July, 1959, when she and FOREMANS

went to the Russian

quare Garden, New York City, and saw FEDORCHENKO and KOVALEVVS

there.

ater in July, she and FOREMAN visited the Russiar

In September, 1959,

EPSTEIN said that she antassed

FEDORCHENKO at the United Nations to enlist his help in(S

setting up a business teaching English to the various United

Nations delegates and employees SEPSTEIN said that she

intended to hire former Berlitz

instructors to do the

up prospective clients.

FEDORCHENKO told her that he could

not help her as he was too busy.

In October, 1959, EPSTEIN said that she and FOREMAN

contacted KOVALEV at

he united Nations for the same purpose

na that KOVALEV also was unable to help. She stated that

she had no further contact with the Soviets unt11 December, (5)

1359, when she telephoned FEDORCHENKO at the Soviet Unit@

Tations Delegation to give him her new (present) addresss

and to invite him to a party at her apartment on 12/20/59.

He accepted the invitation but did not come or call.

It is noted that subject stated that she moved

to her present address in October, 1959 and that she had

previously resided

with her mother at 3071 Sedgwick Avenue,

Bronx, New York.

=5 ÷

SECRET

---

## Page 9

(n)

[VY 234-4224 5(u)

on 12/14/59, NY 536-s* reported that an unknown

woman mad contacted EEDORCHENKO and hac

l invited him to als

party at her address, 345 West 88th

Street, Apartment 7-E,

New York City, telephone EN 2-2614.

at her apartment 1/22/60, in order to give her a present.

She said that he told her that he would not return to che

United States again for at least two years? She said that he

Georgian wine, imported from Russia.

She stated that

EEDORCHENKO walked about the apartment opening doors and

asked how much rent she paid, and generally

"snooped" around.

He told her that she was too much of a

gad about

and said that she should settle down and get

married.

EPSTEIN stated that when she first began getting

(S Soviets as English students at Berlitz she enthusiastically

began to tell them about the United States and gave

S FEDORCHENKQ a book on English literature in the belle

chat the soviets would be interested in learning about the

country to which they were assigned. After doing this for

whout to mee see said that she realized that line Soviets](S)

were not interested and that they "heard only what they

(santed had not returned on to ta he eve that

mentioned it after she gave it to him.

-6 -

SECRET FRI (4)

---

## Page 10

(17 234-4224781(4)

she stated that the Soviets She has met have been

very awkward with the social niceties and were given to

expressing

neople of the United States and Russia

sentiments Such as a toast she also said

"peace loving

that they were

reticent and made her job of teaching

English very difficult as she could not get them to talk

about themselves.

She stated that FEDORCHENKO]was an(S

exception, perhaps because he prided himself on hug al: Jity

to speak English.

She stated that unlike most pupils, [EDORCHENKO]s)

spoke English better than he understook it, perhaps due to

his showoff attitude concerning English.

During the course of her acquaintanceship with

S FEDORCHENKO, she stated that he had learned of her background.

She said that he would insist that she was a Ruesian at hearts)

as well as by parentage while she would maintain that she

was an American..

She related that she once had a copy of

"Dr. Zhivago" at Berlitz and that FEDORCHENKO picked It upS

threw: it on the iloor and asked her why she read such

trash.

one said that she became angry and told him that

that was no way to treat her property and that she considered

it a great literary work.

She said that there had been

several incidents like that with FEDORCHENKO]but that it (5)

had never marred their friendship.

EPSTEIN did not S

respond, he would look surprised

and then said he had forgotten

that she did not speak Russiang(5)

- 7-

SECRET

---

## Page 11

[SECRET TE

NY 134-4214

(Tu)

EPSTEIN said that her only interest in the soviets (5)

She said

as a persoral one as they really had nothing in come

since she had only been touched once by FEDORCHENKO when

he kissed her goodbye on 122/60. She said that there really

was no basis for their friendship except a desire on hor

part to understand the Soviets Motivated by her interest

in international affairs.

She said that she felt thas shs

had "exploited" them by asking them to parties where shey

would be the main attraction.

Conceming BORIS S. IVANOV EPSTEIN stated that he

apparently was FEDORCHENKO'S superior inasmuch as FEDORCHENKO 5)

deferred to him constantly.

She described IVANOV as beings)

quite reticent and expisind that she once complimented him

on a new suit he was wearing and asked him where he had

bought it..

He replied "in Landor!' and then procèeded to praise

the merits of Russian made clothing fS)

Concerning LEONID KOVALEV,

"stated that he

was a wolf and that she did not like

EPSTEIN gave

the following information regarding

her former associates at Berlitz:

JORRTE, GARRIGUE

a former English teacher at

Berlitz and an accomplished violinist.

Epsctal said that

she at one time considered going to Moscow to. study music

at the Moscow Conservatory.

recently that GARRIGUE had been married.

EPSTEN sald that she had heard (uy

-8 -

SECRETI

(KU)

---

## Page 12

SECRED 01

[nE 234-422476814)

BERTON VAN HORN FOREMAN , is a former English

teacher at Berlitz and is now an instructor of the rapanese

language at Columbia University.

EPSTEIN stated thac

FOREMAN had lived in Japan for a number of years and Diat

up until recently he had been an English instructor for

the employees of the Amtorg Trading Corporation, New York S

City.

EPSTEIN stated that FOREMAN is a very close friend

of hers.

GEMMA, BERBERI,

S former Italian teacher at berlitz,

was EPSTEIN'S roommate at 128 West 73rd Street, from

approximately June through September, 1958.

EPSTEIN said

that BERBERI. could bearly speak English and that to her

knowledge BERBERI had never

Cures cat aust the soviets y

DENNIS

TARBER was shown

a good deal of interest

Rever finished nien school,

BORIS S. IVANOV and FEDORCHENKO while at Berlitz. HARBER

He was in the Army in World

War II and suffered a severe emotional shock which now

upsets him from time to time and causes him to get

intoxicated in order to get relief.

She stated that he

had received treatment for this condition at Veterans

Administration hospitals.

She said that he is very

intelligent and perceptive but appears to have no

confidence in himself.

She said that he once told her that

he wanted to go to puerto Rico to live, where he would be

near a Veterans Administration hospital so that he could

take treatments if necessary. EPSTEIN noted that HARBER

She said that the last address

she had for him was 454 West 22nd Street, New York City,

telephone CH 3-7208.

She also related that HARBER had had

a roommate at that address,

whom, to the best a her recollection as aRE a deat

Idlewild Airport

VENEZICIA

÷9

SECREn

(u)

---

## Page 13

NY 134-4214

жи)

N.41

ED PUDE, she stated, had not associated with the

PYDE was at Berlitz as

Russiano as much as she, GARRICUE teacher only a shore

and FOREMAN had and. That

an English

time.

She said that he was married to a German national

in Germany

and that he now lives in New Jersey, and has 3

children.

Subject's Desire to Clear Her Name ] # (4)

During the interview EPSTEIN stated that she had

twice applied for jobs with the United States Government and

was sure that she had been accepted both times only to be

refused employment at the last moment.

She feels that since

she was qualified for both positionshernor ecceptance could

only be due to some allegation of distoynity of which she

is not aware.

She has always been interested in international

affairs and so she applied to the United States Department of

State for the position of foreign service officer.

She passed

the written and then the oral examination and felt that she

She then had an interview with a security

official at the Department of State when she submitted her

Personal History Form, at which time she was asked if there

was anything in her background which would reflect unfavorably

on her and she said no.

Approximately two months later she

said that she received a letter from the State Department

informing her that she was not being employed. She then

wrote to the State Department protesting her loyalty to the

United States stating

that her non acceptance could only be

due to the belief that she might be disloyal. The State

Department then replied that its actions should not be

construea

as refleotion on her character or loyalty.

- 10

SECRED

* 4)

---

## Page 14

NY 134-4224] * fu)

In the Winter of 1958 she stated that she arplied

for a position with the United States Army to teach

in a school for the children of United States Milit

Personnel stationed in Germany.

She said that she had even

received the necessary Innoculations from the Army when

she was again refused employment. AlU

EPSTEIN stated that she feels she was penalized

for something of which she was not aware, not for any

actions of her own and she, therefore, desired and felt

it necessary to "clear her name"

She stated that she is

sure that she has never done anything detrimental to the

best interests of the United States and that any allegation

of her aisloyalty must be due to misuse. @

(u)

She stated that she knew her uncle NELSON CHIPCHIN

had been investigated at one time but that he had been

cleared and he is still employed by USIA.

She stated that she

visited CHIPCHIN in Germany after being

turned down by the

State Department and he suggested that she had not been

woinen are not allowed in the service.

because oi these two rejections, was very

EPSTEIN stated that her mother happy that she

while sympat etic

would be staying in this country. 8 1U)

EPSTEIN 1s apparently unaware of the subversive

Information regarding her relatives RYU,

Recommendations

10(4)

and

= 11

SECRET

---

## Page 15

SECRED 380 (U)

NY 134-4214

*(U)

From what she relates of her association with FEDORCHENKO,

it would appear that FEDORCHENKO would have made an ascemb

to recrult ner had she not been so Qutspoken in insiscing

that she was not a Russian. EPSTEINhas met several Soviets) LS

who are still in the country and would be able to maintair

ontact with them in a natural manner; It is felt_ that she s

has good potential as an informant for double agent. (S

Bureau authority is requested to contact the

subject for the purpose of developing her as

an informant

1-12 -

SECRET

---

