JFK Assassination System Date:
Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

COMMENTS :

i
I yo
\Pocra: 32309270 Page 1

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10298-10057

HQ

92-2824-134, 135, 136

4/23/201

Document Information

FBI
EDGERTON, HAROLD J.
DIRECTOR, FBI

11/29/1967
49

JC, REL, TRA, RES, EMP, B/F INT, FISUR, TOLL CALLS,
CRIMINAL ACT, BKG, FINANCIAL STATEMENT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

05/11/1998

INDEFINITE

INC 2 RPT


|

K

Nev. 9-17-65)

=DERA. BUREAU OF IN\

pa
ran

eae -
=STIGATION *

Y

(

__) INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD.=—————~~

—=[ F17907/'67—=" 3/21/68"

(aul acute

TITLE OF CASE

REPORT MADE BY

HAROLD J. EDGERTON

TYPED BY

jah

JOSEPH FRANCIS“CIVELLO aka

AR

CHARACTER OF CASE

REFERENCES:

Dallas letter to Chicago dated 2/8/68.
San Antonio letter to Dallas dated 3/7/68.

-P--

LEADS
DALLAS ‘
AT DALLAS, TEXAS.

1. Will maintain close contact

with DL 289-C as to when subject goes to Hot Springs and afford

appropriate coverage.
*2.

to be interviewed.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED:

Will review results of leads outstanding in several
offices concerning telephone contacts and determine logical persons

None

\Case has beer

y

Pending over one year XR) Yes

(No; Pending prosecution over six months [7] Yes

KXNe

‘APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT,
IN CHARGE,

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

| COPIES MADE:

YV

3 4 Bureau (92-2824)

Zier

AeA Ye

ee ee ee

1 - USA, Fort Worth, Texas s APR 1. 1968
7 2 - Dallas (92-36) * ee '
Ht Seeeseraatar oe
> Dissemination Record of Attached Report Notations ~ aay a
aa Recd. aia: AAG, | Criminal Diviston,
one i ‘Organized Cri ss

By

3 55a

231968) '

Report of SA HAROLD J, EDGERTON dated 1/29/68 at Dallas.

35 FP

parstbtsasnaLrastaniersaesyypr

DocId:32309270 Page 2


DL 92-36

« 3. Will maintain contact with DL 271-C and DL 275-C-TE

as to subject's daily activities.

4, Will spot check subject's activities.
ADMINISTRATIVE ;

Noted the period of this report is prior to date of

last report due to the fact that some pertinent investigation
was received too late to be included in the prior report.

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

DL T-1 is DL 289-C contacted by SA HAROLD J. EDGERTON.
DL T-2 is Dun & Bradstreet, Dallas, Texas.
DL T-3 is DL 271-C contacted by SA HAROLD J, EDGERTON.

DL T-4 is JOHN STASSI, PCI, New Orleans Office,
contacted by SA's THOMAS L. COLARELLI and JOHN E, DECKER,

MISCELLANEOUS

Records of the General Telephone Company, Garland,
Texas, were made available by WAYNE KING, Commercial Manager.

Records of Southwestern Bell Telephone Company,
McKinney, Texas, were made available to SA JOHN B. FULKS by
JOHN. LA FORGE, District Manager.

BY
COVER PAGE

a ee |

ae

DocId:32309270 Page 3


3 tev 8-867)

O.

FEDERAL “BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF Oniain pve [investieaTive PERIOD

REPORTING OFFICE
DALLAS i DALLAS [1/29/68 [11/22/67 - 1/26/68
TITLE, OF CASE REPORT MADE BY [reco ey

: A ‘HAROLD J. EDGERTON | hje
JOSEPH FRANCIS “CIVELLO aka CHARACTER OF CASE
AR
it —

_ "REFERENCES: Report of SA HAROLD J. EDGERTON dated 11/29/67, Dallas.
Dallas letter to Los Angeles dated 1/12/68.

-~ Pe
AT DALLAS, TEXAS
7 1. Continue to spot check subject's addresses of residence
™. *' and part-time employment so as to be alert to his whereabouts and contacts.

2. Will maintain contacts with informants.

3. Will follow and report investigation outstanding in

other offices.
ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED None. acquit.
coNvic.|AUTO.| FUG. FINES SAVINGS RECOVERIES TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR [X]ves [Jno
PENDING PROSECUTION
OVER SIX MONTHS, (Clves ggjno

APPROVED cuiaiena neers DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

L/S REO 25

1ES MADE:

Bureau (92-2824)

1 - USA, Fort Worth

2 - Dallas (92-36)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.
Date F

7 Organized Crme and 1 R 7 |
How Fwd. acketeoring ty

Section, Boafa® A SN. co Cee

“54 FEB27 1968

DocId:32309270 Page 4


lL

DL 92-36

ADMINISTRATIVE

The Bureau by airtel dated 11/24/67 authorized
continuous check of télephones available to subject. The telephone
company is still checking for the records of the public telephone
located at the Airway Liquor Store operated by subject, his brother,
and brother-in-law. Leads concerning check of toll calls set out
in details of this report are being set out separately.

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

DL T-1 is DL 289-C
DL T-2 is DL 275-C-TE
DL T+-3 is DL 271-C
DL T-4 is DL 99-C

: \
- Be ts, A A
Cover Page ee aor Yor:

DocId:32309270 Page 5

i
{
{
if



ELe265 (Rev. 3-8-67) CO

FEDERAL BUREAU

O°

OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

| orrice oF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DATE

11/29/67

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

T
| 9/7 - 11/20/67

TITLE. OF CASE

REPORT MADE BY

HAROLD J. EDGERTON
CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

ges

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO aka

fi
AR

i]
Report of SA HAROLD J. EDGERTON dated 9/21/67 at a
Houston letter to Dallas dated 9/25/67.
Los Angeles letter to Bureau dated 10/13/67, entitled
"LA COSA NOSTRA, AR" and "AARON SAMUEL MARSHAL aka,
AR".
Dallas airtel to Los Angeles dated 10/24/67.
Dallas teletype to Los Angeles and Kansas dated.10/26/67
Kansas City teletype to Dallas dated 10/27/67.
Kansas City airtel to Dallas dated 11/2/67.
Los Angeles airtel to Dallas dated 11/14/67.

REFERENCES:

-Pp-

LEADS

DALLAS

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED None

convic.|auro.| Fuse FINES

SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT-|

CASE HAS BEEN:
TALS

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR [X]ves [_]No
PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS. (ves [Xjno

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT
IN CHARGE,

i
(3}- Bureau (92-2824)
1 - USA, Fort Worth

a 2 - Dallas (92-36):

ga l2ray- | 2d ie

: ————
wad

te DEC 1 1967,

Dissemination Record of AttachediReport |
se DIS seminee Attac'

Agency

eee
Request Recd. | =. -L—]

Date Fw

How Fwd

one TOMS

DocId:32309270 Page 6



DL 92-36

7 AT DALLAS, TEXAS, 1. Continue to spot check subject's
activities and be alert to his whereabouts and note contacts with
Dallas associates.

2. Will maintain contacts with informants.

ADMINISTRATIVE

The Los Angeles Office advised by airtel dated
11/14/67 that LA 4476-C-TE maintained contact with Doctor
JOSEPH DESIMONE, Los Angeles, but other than learning that
CIVELLO had arrived in-Los Angeles and then departed for Lake
Tahoe, Reno and San Francisco, DESIMONE did not get a chance
to talk to CIVELLO.

By letter dated 9/25/67, the Houston Office advised
that the following informants had been contacted in an effort
to determine the identities of the three individuals who had
reportedly been in contact with CIVELLO at Dallas concerning
possible purchase of land on which the new Dallas-Fort Worth
jairport is to be built, with negative results.

HO 1082-C contacted 9/7/67 by SA ALFRED G. GUNN
PCI JOE LUCIA, contacted 9/15/67 by SA GUNN
HO 1248-C contacted on 9/15/67 by SA GUNN

Under date of 10/13/67, the Los Angeles Office
furnished the following pertinent information re CIVELLO as
furnished by LA 4476-C-TE.

The occasion was a meeting at the home of above
source on 8/28/67, present being ALMARSHAL, JOE IANNI, Dallas
associate of CIVELLO, PHIL DAVID and source. Group were
discussing purchase of property in Las Vegas, specifically
the Riviera Hotel and during discussion MARSHAL remarked that
JOE IANNI's father, FRANK IANNI (deceased), went to Federal
penitentiary on a narcotics violation and. the father was the
"Patrone" in Dallas before JOE CIVELLO. MARSHAL also said that he
obtained a pardon for IANNI's father from President TRUMAN.
MARSHAL said that IANNI is a courier for JOE CIVELLO and his
right arn.

as : art
Cover Page

.
dy Ja~ Lope
)

DocId:32309270 Page 7


DL 92-36

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

DL T-1 is
DL T-2 is
DL T-3 is
DL T-4 is
DL T-5 is

v8

DocId:32309270 Page 8

DL 289-C
DL 350-PC
DL 271-C
DL 275-C-TE
DL 99-C

Cover Page

|
|
)

