AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-10277-10162

HQ
92-3267-619

Document Information

FBI
SAC, LA
DIRECTOR, FBI

09/25/1964
2

JRO, BKG, ASSOC, RES

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

04/20/1998

INDEFINITE

Date:

5/1/2015

v9.1
DoclId:32300827 Page 1


was her boy friend. 7 !

LA 92-113-c :

: on 9/22/64, former LA 4476-PC advised that
about 11:00 pm. on 9/19/64, he observed ROSSELLI and
and unknown man at Dino's, a Sunset Strip night club.
He described the unknown man as about 45 years old,
612", 175 pounds, and had a mustache. Source said he
thought the men were by themselves.

on 9/23/64, BETSY DUNCAN, PCI, advised that the
man with ROSSELLI at’Dino's on the evening of 9/19/64,
was Mr. LEFF who has some ownership in the New Frontier
Hotel in Las Vegas, DUNCAN advised that the two men were
accompanied by Mr. LEFF and by ROSELLI's red haired girl
friend, KATHY, LEFF. is IRVING J, LEFF, who is known to be 1
a friend of ROSSELLI and who lives in the same apartment
house as does ROSSELLI.

: The Los Angeles Police. Department has “furnished

a copy of the report of the theft of KATHY HORDEN's 1964's

Pontiac. The car was stolen from the apartment garage and

taken to the vicinity of 151 East 61st Street, Los Angeles,

where it was stripped and then 'set on fire. ROSSELLI

claimed that a set of men's golf clubs valued at $500

was taken from the car and a set of women's golf clubs,

valued at $100. KATHY HORDEN, the registered owner, 2
stated she. was a student by occupation ana J. ROSSELLI H

ROSSELLI told the Los Angeles Police Department
Officer that his business telephone number was 651-0751.
Lt. PHILLIPS, LAPD, advised that this number is listed to
EMANUEL ROBHMAN, Suite #1104, 6380 Wilshire Boulevard, Los
Angeles. It is noted that the address-of ROTHMAN's firm
is 7959 West 3rd Street, Los Angeles, and it was not

. previously known that he jad another office at the Wilshire

Boulevard address. Lt. PHILLIPS further advised that
HORDEN received two traffic citations from the LAPD during
the month of May, 1964. On one of. these occasions, she
was driving a Volkswagen, bearing Nevada license CB 6804,
which was registered to her at 2908 Burton Street, Las
Vegas, Nevada. i

~2-

' Docla: 32300827 Page 2
