# docid-32306617

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10290-10257

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-157

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/22/1961

3

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, ARMORY LOUNGE, SUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32306617

Page 1

419

---

## Page 2

ACDERIE BENEAS OY SNECTISNTIOR

0. 5. DEPARTUENT OF JUSTICE

IRCUNECATIORO

SECTION

MAR 22

TELEINE

Mir. Tolson_

Mr. Parsons_

"Tr. Mohr.

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. Contad

"Tr. DeLac

Mr. Evange

Mr.

Malone

Mr. Rosen_

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter_

Mx. W.C.Sullivan

Mr. Ingram.

Miss Gandy_

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREI 1S UNCLASSIFIED

DATE5-23-84

URGENT

3-22-61

7-21 PM JEG

TO DÍRECTOR FBI

92-3171

FROM SAC CHICAGO 92-349

RECA

4-13

SAMUEL MO.CIANCANA, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY. PCI GLADYS EBLE ADVISED

INSTANT DATE SHE OBSERVED GIANCANA ENTER THE ARMORY LOUNGE EARLY IN

AFTERNOON, MERIVING IN A LATE MODEL CHEVADIET CONVERTIBLE. RE THE/EVAN-

STON CAB COS AND INFO OBTAINED PREVIOUSLY FROM CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE

CHLEALOIEL

DASH C RE BUTCH LNU, FRONT FOR THIS CO. FOR GIANCANA. INFO HAS BEEN RE-

CEIVED TO THE EFFECT THAT THIS IS IN ALL PROBABILITY FRANK QUOTE BUTCH

END QUOTE LOVERDE, UHO HAS INTERESTS IN THE WALTON CLUB CLUS NINETEEN,

LA RUE THIRTY TWO AND TALK OF THE TOWN WITH DOMINICK QUOTE HUNK END

QUOTE GALIANO. LOVERDE IS AN EX CONVICT AND SERVED SEVEN YEARS AT

LEAVENWORTH PENITENTIARY UNDER NAME OF RUSSO. HE IS A RECENT ROBBERY

SUSPECT, CHICAGO. HE ADVISED HIS LANDLADY AT TWO FIVE THREE DELAWARE

PLACE, CHICAGO, THAT HE IS BUSINESS AGENT FOR THE EVANSTON TAXICAB CO.

ATTEMPTS ARE BEING MADE TO INTERVIEW HAROLDAMG CLINTOCK TO DEVELOP ILL

FULL PARTICULARS OF REA RADIO EXONE RES CTIONS PABTISYLARLY

REC- 4

IO HIS

ASSOCIATION WITH CHICAGO AREA HOODLUMS. INVESTIGATION CONTINUING.

MAR 24 1961

INVESTIGATION

AT THE/ ARMORY LOUNGE DEVELOPED THAI

SIGN INDICATES

END PAGE ONE

-EHICAGO, ILL

Felt For

DocId: 32306617 Page 2

---

