# docid-32290917-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10206-10193

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-635

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, TP:

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/09/1962

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

LST, WHEREABOUTS, NEG, ACT, TELCAL, ASSOC, MURDER,

ANASTASIA, ABLERT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: • Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DEA, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

"ted

v9.1

29

---

## Page 2

FD-56 Fev. 12-13-561

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

PLAIN TEXT

F B'I

Date: 11/9/62

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

1h

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM: SAC, TAMPA (92-1) (P)

SANTO T

TRAFFICANTE, JR., AKA,

ANTI-RACKETEERING

(00: TAMPA)

WEEKLY AIRTEL SUMMARY

Re Weekly Airtel Summary, dated 11/2/62; and Miami

teletype to Bureau 11/8/62.

New York advised on 10/30/62 Detective WILLIAM GRAFF,

18th Squad, New York City PD, furnished information that the

U. S. Dept. of Justice had furnished the information to the

District Attorney's Office in connection with the investigation

Of ALBERT ANASTASIA

some information of possible assistance. GRAFF ascertained

the Narcotics Agent with information to be OSCAR LEON DAVIS,

Presentsyra Deputy U. S. Marshal, Orlando, Fla.

DAVIS' informant

was CARLOS de - TORRES of

Miami, Fla., who thereafter, upon

interview, related the individuals who were allegedly involved

in the killing of ANASTASIA.

GRAFF thereafter interviewed

one of the individuals who admitted he had told persons that

he worked for ANASTASIA, but told GRAFF there was no truth in

these statements.

Thes

individual was subsequently characterized

as a "bum" whose information could not be considered reliable.

3

- Bureau

2

2

Jacksonville (92-7)

- Miami (92-88)

- New York (92-846)

- Tampa

SJL: dmb

(119)

REVIEWED.

DEA

NICKY FEWUFK TASK FORGE

REC- 30

92-2781-195

BUL X3

* NOV 13.002

04C67/26/95 BB/Bw/TH

ED RELEASE IN FULL

EASI

5X RELEASE IN PAR

D

TOTAL

Approved €

• 1060

Sent

_M. Per

*Special Agent in Charge

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

Detective GRAFF further advised he closed out this phase of

his investigation as to the ANASTASIA killing as being based

on unreliable information.

GRAFF noted that it was a policy

of the District Attorney's Office in New York County that

no indictment would be issued until that office is ready to

apprehend those named in the indictment and therefore, no

Federal UFAP process is contemplated in connection with the

ANASTASIA homicide.

He cantone wood n

He said he would notify the New York

Office of any indictment returned in this ANASTASIA case.

FCI DOMINICK LA ROSA (protect) advised 11/6/62 that

SANTO TRAFFICANTE walked into the Columbia Restaurant, alone,

at 11:45 A.M., 11/6/62.

He stayed but a few minutes and left

alone.

His whereabouts were unknown after he was observed

having a shoeshine at a shoeshine parlor across Broadway

from the Columbia Restaurant.

Efforts to locate subject in the vicinity

of the Columbia

his father-in-law's residence, 2009 10th Ave.; at his residence,

and hang outs. of his associates on 11/6/62 met with negative

results.

On 11/7/62, DANA CESSNA, Reporter,

"Tampa Times", a daily'

newspaper in Tampa, Fla.; advised SA JOHN D. MEDAGLIA

that

& source had told him that SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR. had returned

to Tampa, Fla. on the morning of 11/6/62 and had been in the

office of Attorney PAT WHITAKER, 308 Tampa St., who has represented

his family in the

past.?

On. 11/6/62, TP 79-C* made available the information

that JOE RAYMOND DIEZ was interested in contacting subject's

unlisted home telephone 876-2207, but source was unable to

obtain any further data.

Daily checks and spot fisurs from 11/5 to 11/8/62 of

subject's residence and contacts with sources and informants

were negative relative to subject's location.

Furthermore,

contact with sources at the Columbia Restaurant established

subject has not returned since being observed at 11:45 A.M.,

11/6/62 at the Columbia Restaurant.

No new vehicle has been observed at subject's residence

other than the vehicles used by the family, such as the 1962

2

---

