# docid-32206925

## Page 1

Date: 08/11/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : DOJ

RECORD NUMBER

: 179-20001-10139

RECORDS SERIES

CLASSIFIED SUBJECT FILE 129-11, ENCLOSURES, SERIAL #71

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : MIAMI, FL

TITLE

PAGES

ACTS : 30/08/62

SUBJECTS :

CUBAN REBELS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST

REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

ATTACHMENT P; BOX 65

IR]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DocId: 32206925

Page

---

## Page 2

SECRET

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File No.

105-3558

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami, Florida

October 8,

1962

2/2197

CLASSIFED 8Y5668-S1D/uade

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

RE:

CUBAN REBEL ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

ALL INDORZATION CONTALNED

HERBIN IS UNCLASSIRIAD EXCEET

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

It is noted the "Diario Las Americas", a Spanish

language newspaper published in Miami, in its issue of

September 28, 1962, carried the following article:

"75 Shot for Attack Against Castro

"New York, Sept. 27 (UPI) --Information from Cuba re-

ceived by private individuals in this city, is to

the effect that 75 persons were executed and 28

condemned to long prison terms, charged with plan-

ning to assassinate Prime Minister Fidel Castro

and other government officials.

"According to this information, the execu-

tions were carried out at La Cabana Prison, three

each day, during the last few weeks.

"Exiled Cuban students in Mexico stated that

there is a new 'internal rebellion' in Cuba.

Masonic leaders based in Mexico stated on Tuesday

that two Cuban Masons were shot and wounded, and

at least 300 were arrested, when troops broke up

a Masonic meeting on Saturday night.

"Jose Esquivel Pren, Mexican Mason, stated

that at least five thousand Masons have been ar-

rested throughout Cuba in a campaign by Castro

against this fraternal group."

10-25 119

OCT 1 51962

INTERNAL SECURITY DIVISION

INDEXER

c1 10/23/03

D.A. K

12

OCT 12 1962

M. 12

INTERNAL SECURITY DIV.

Liaison & Folicy Planning

SECRF!

-DocId: 32206925 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Re: Cuban Rebel Activities in Cuba

On October 5, 1962, MM T-1, who has furnished re-

liable information in

the past, advised the information set

forth below was received by him through (clandestine channels

(5]

from a source in Havana, Cubal whom he regarded as reliable

and anti-Castro.

This information possibly relates to the

action described in the above newspaper article.

During the month of September, 1962, 94 indiv-

iduals were executed and buried in the main cemetery in

Havana.

On September 29, 1962, 22 more were to be buried

there, but they were taken instead to an undisclosed location.

A great deal of concern is expressed as the Cuban

Government continues to detain people without trial and

nothing further is heard of them until a notice is posted

that such

and such a person was executed because of anti-

government activities.

Some individuals who had guns hidden have been

forced to dispose of them due to the activities of the

neighborhood "Defense Committees".

PROPERTY OF FBI - This memorandum is

loaned to you by the FBI; neither It

nor its contents should be distributed

outside the agency to which loaned.

- 2* -

SECREE,

DocId: 32206925 Page 3

---

