JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10290-10298
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 62-9-12-700
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, DL
70: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 12/05/1966
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
JFC, REL, TRA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified =
RESTRICTIONS: 4 pneias
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 05/27/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

v9.L
Docld:32306658 Page 1


FD-36 (Rev, 5-22-64)

FBI
Date: 12/5/66

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL

(Priority)

DJRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)
SAC, DALLAS (92-625-SUB)

SUBJECT: Cer IMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM
WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION
Re Dallas airtel to Bureau dated 11/28/66.

RE: JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO aka
AR
(DL 92-36)

CHARLES EDWARD CIVELLO.aka Z
AR eee :
(DL 92-194) :

ROSS MUSSO
AR
(DL 92-195)

PCI JOHN H. BROWN advised on 11/30/66, that Dr.
‘Ye ZACHARIA and his wife, brother-in-law and sister of JOSEPH
CIVELLO, from Rockford, Illinois, visited CIVELLO over the
Thanksgiving holiday and then CIVELLO and his wife accom-
panied the ZACHARIAs to Baton Rouge, Louisiana, to visit A
ve

relatives, the SAM CANGELOSIs. Prior to going to Baton Rouge,
CIVELLO gave a private party at his residence for Dr. ZACHARIA?
and his wife and attending this party were CHARLES CIVELLO,
ROSS MUSSO, PETE RRANTE, LUKE A _pontenecu, CARLO(LA
YU} BARBA, and JOHN RC S ATRONO. PCI stated the builder wi
ba ‘built’ JOSEPH CIVELLO'S/nome was also present. PCI advised
that MUSSQ had, been sickly lately, re a —— an ulcer.

EE Ly eb XIN
x i anti set 7 EB. om 21966

2- Bake
: ad = ; = ts v = —
‘ A
Approved: Sent “__M Per

. Special Agent in Charge

DocId:32306658 Page 2
