# docid-32423647

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/10/201

AGENCY:

RECORD/NUMBER :

DIA

111-10004-10000

RECORD SERIES:

ARMY INTELLIGENCE REPORTS ACCESSION NUMBER 66A3216

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2201153763

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

USA

BOYT J.E.

CASTRO AGENT IN US INFORMING ON SABOTAGE RAIDS AGAINST CUBA

DATE: 11/13/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: OPEN IN 25 YEARS

COMMENTS:

Postponed to protect the identify of two subsources of US intelligence in Cuba.

v9.1

DocId: 32423647

Page

1

---

## Page 2

111-10004-10000

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION REPORT

NO1: Thia document containe infomation

illoctine tha national delonee of the Uniloc

2254285

¡tates within the moaning of the espionage

Thia report concene unpro coreod intomation.

laws, Tillo 18, U.S.C., Sac 799 and 794.

Plans and/ or policies should not bo oval vod

Tho trenamiscion or the rovelation al les

contenta in any manner lo en unauthorizod

person is prohibited by law.

1. COUNTRY: CUBA

Classicalion and Entrol Macking

ontrol Markings

8. REPORT NUMBER:

or modified solely on the banis of this report.

2. SUBJECT: (C) CASTRO Agent in US Informing

ca Sabotage Raids Against CUBA" DATE OF REPORT:

10. NO. OF PAGES:

3. ISC NUMBER:

11. REFERENCES:

A. DATE OF INFORMATION: October 1963

12. ORIGINATOR:

5. PLACE AND DATE OF ACO:

October 1963, HABANA 13. PREPARED BY:

6

2201153763

13 November 1963

One

DIRM 6B7e

DUJ

DUJ

6. EVALUATION: SOURCE F

7. SOURCE:

DUJ 316/47-5-63

INFORMATION

IA APPROVING AUTHORIT

J.E.

Inf

TS. SuMMATC Source reports receiving information through "ohain of Informants",

(Leave Slank)

alerts GOC regarding number of saboteurs, how, when and where they will

arrive in CUBA. (NFIA)

/H COMMENT: "Chain of Informants" include (1) friend of source, wh

friend of Source

6(2)

original Sources.

1B.

DISTRIBUTION BY ORIGINATOR:

CAS"Miant, Florida

FILE COPY

MUST BE RETURNED DO

INTELLIGENCE DOCUMENT BRANCH

WITH TWO WEEKS

ACSI, U. S. ARMY

17. DOWNGRADING DATA:

CONCRANED AT 12-TEAR INTERVALS

DOD DIR 5200.10

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

18.

ATTACHMENT IA:A

CONFIDENIIAL

DD. F0 1396

(Classilication and Control Markiess)

FORM 11

.... E

DocId: 32423647

Page 2

---

