JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
+ TO:

TITLE: .

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10283-10148

HQ

92-2918-6TH NR 101

Document Information

FBI
SAC, MM
DIRECTOR, FBI

08/15/1961
2

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

09/11/1998

INDEFINITE,

vol
| Docld:32303136 Page 1



t
‘
|

af? /92=236//92-228/

PM EST MH

URGENT.” 8/15/64 5-44

TO.” DIRECTOR, FBI /92-2914//92-2916/ AND SAC, PITTSBURGH

FROM SAC, MIAMI 2 P O
“GABRIEL MANNARINO, AKA, SAMUEL MANNARINO, | AKA, AR. ON AUGUST
FOURTEEN LAST, JOSEPH Ro MEROLA WAS INTERVIEWED AT USPO BLDGos
MIAMI, FLAe, IN PRESENCE OF DJ ATTORNEYS WILLIAM KENNEY AND
WILLIAM KEHGR AT MERGLA-S INSISTENCE» INTERVIEW COMMENCED
IN LATE AFTERNOON AND MEROLA SET CONDITIONS HE WOULD NOT

TESTIFY TO INFORMATION FURNISHED, WISHED IDENTITY PROTECTE)
AND WOULD NOT DISCUSS SUBSTANTIVE VIOLATIONS IN WHICH HE was

PARTICIPANT. MEROLA FURNISHED BACKGROUND INFORMATION CON-
CERNING HIMSELF, GABRIEL AND SAMUEL MANNARINO AND THE HISTORY

OF THEIR ASSOCIATION. HE CHARACTERIZED GABRIEL MANNARINO AS
ACTIVE JOHN LA ROCCA, PITTSBURGH, AND INACTIVE

SECOND ONLY TO
FRANK AMATO, BRADDOCK PAcy AS TOP MEN IN WESTERN PAo FOR ;

IAL FILDD IN G2- LY

{RIGID

QUOTE NATIONAL CRIME SYNDICATE UNQUOTE. ALSO REFERRED TO, aN

TS AUG

: INFORMATION FURNISHED .

BY MEROLA AS QUOTE THE OUTFIT UNQUOTE >
N IN MANNARINO ORGANIZATION IN

Lb
yet. 92 amt -y |

REGARDING INTERNAL DISSENSIO

END PAGE ONE

(82 AUG. 28 198

DocId:32303136 Page 2


PAGE TWO
NEW KENSINGTON, PAs, WITH FORMER BODYGUARD JOHN FONTANA AND
FORMER QUOTE TRIGGERMAN UNQUOTE AL ROSS AT ODDS WITH KELLY
MANNARINO. MEROLA PREDICTS ANDY MANGINI, LIEUTENANT FOR
KELLY MANNARINO, WILL BE KILLED BECAUSE OF EXCESSIVE STEALING
FROM MANNARINO GAMBLING ENTERPRISES. MEROLA FURNISHED IDENTITY
OF ANDY MANGINI AS UNSUB IN LOADING OF STOLEN WEAPONS IN CASE //
QUOTE STUART SUTOR, ET AL, ITSP, TGP, FFA, NM, CONSPIRACY UN- if
/

QUOTE AND OF THIEVES GEORGE FLOREA AND RICHARD STEWART. HE
FURNISHED OTHER POSITIVE INFORMATION IN THIS CASE. MEROLA /

I;

SAID QUOTE OUTFIT UNQUOTE BEHIND NEW DIXIE SWEEPSTAKES TICKE |

|

DISTRIBUTION IN HIS AREA. BELIEVES TICKETS PRINTED IN NEW V

OSTENSIBLY FOR BENEFIT OF PAN AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION
AND KELLY MANNARINO COMPELLED TO TAKE TEN THOUSAND BOOKS FOR

~ YORK CITY BUT HAS NO POSITIVE INFORMATION PRESENTLY. MEROLA, //

AFTER ‘SOME THOUGHT, RELENTED AND ALSO FURNISHED POSITIVE IN-
FORMATION ON SOME BURGLARIES AND ROBBERIES IN WHICH HE
PARTICIPATED OR KNEW A

OfS2 -INTERVIEW TERMINATED AT MEROLA-S
REQUEST ABOUT TEN P. Me DUE TO MEROLA-S PRIOR COMMITMENT FOR
DAYTIME OF AUGUST FIFTEEN, INTERVIEW TO RESUME SIX Po Me THAT
EVENING. SAS PORTELLA AND FORSYTH ANTICIPATE RETURN PITTSBURGH
AUCUST SIXTEEN NEXT.
END AND ACK PLS
6-21 PM OK FBI WA MLL
PG KOK FBI PG DLH

TUWPFasé

DocId:32303136 Page 3

}
4
1
1
