# docid-32308578

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10294-10436

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-539

Document Information

, ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

12/15/1961

SGI, WHEREABOUTS, ASSOC, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1.

DocId: 32308578

Page

1

224

---

## Page 2

111 /gu, 6-2-611

DECODED COPY

• Radio

xes Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr _

Callahan

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram.

Gandy

pos

URGENT

12-15-61

7:23 PM

JAA

TO DIRECTOR 21 AND SACS CHICAGO AND LAS VEGAS

FROM SAC NEW YORK

152205

SAMUEL M

JALANGANA, ARA, ARO PO! RANDY BURKE, CONTACTED DAILY

RE SUBUECT'S POSSIBLE VISIT NY, ADVISED SUBJECT NOT KNOWN TO BE

IN NY AT THIS TIME. JOHN TEETER (PROTECT) ADVISED ON DECEMBER 15

INSTANT SUBJECT NOT. IN NY TO HIS KNOWLEDGE. HE RELATED,

REFUSING TO NAME HIS SOURCE, THAT SUBJECT AND PHYLLIS MC GUIRE

WERE OBSERVED TOGETHER AT KIT KAT CLUB, CHICAGO, ON DECEMBER 2

LAST, AND TO KEEP THIS INFO OUT OF NEWSPAPERS SUBJECT MUST HAVE

HAD TO PAY OFF. HE ADDED CHICAGO DAILY NEWS REPORTED PHYLLIS

MCGUIRE WITH BILL GOLDBAUM, HER HAIRDRESSER, WHEN IN REALITY

SHE WAS WITH SUBJECT. TEETER NAMED GOLDBAUM AS A SPY FOR

SUBJECT ON MO GUIRE'S MOVEMENTS AND ACTIVITIES. TEETER ALSO

STATED HE'D LEARNED FROM HIS UNIDENTIFIED SOURCE THAT CHICAGO

DAILY NEWS HAD MADE INQUIRY AT LAS VEGAS RE SUBJECT AND MO GUIRE'S

ACTIVITIES AND SHERIFF THERE ALLEGEDLY FURNISHED KNOWN DETAILS,

THE EXACT NATURE OF WHICH WERE NOT FURNISHED BY TEETER. HE

OPINED SUBJECT AND MO GUIRE ARE BEING VERY CAREFUL TO AVOID

PUBLICITY AS; SHE HAS RESUMED DATING OLD BOYFRIENDS IN

1 NY. (4)

RECEIVED:

7:34 PM

EUGREG 127.

92-3171-539

125 ПЕС 10 1-

DEC

EX108

ALL TNFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN AS UNCLASSIFIED

-20-94 BYSP5RJ6/

CAL

j the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32308578

Page 2

---

