# docid-32306689

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10290-10329

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 63-4426-342

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HART, ARTHUR.V.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/28/1959

PAGES:

30

SUBJECTS :

JFC, APALACHIN MEETING, CRIMINAL ACT, ASSOC AND

REL, NUMEROUS INTV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32306689

Page 1

39

---

## Page 2

AL 62-1152

hoodlums herein and attorneys of such hoodlums, pending the

outcome of case

entitled, "u.s. vs. BONANNO."

Information copies of this report are furnished

to those offices having outstanding leads, to keep them up

to date on developments in the case. A copy is forwarded to

the Chicago Office, although it does not have outstanding

leads, in view of the size and the national connections of

the criminal element in that city.

LEADS:

THE BUFFALO OFFICE

AT ROCHESTER, NEW YORK

1.

WIll identify occupant, 96 Silverdale Drive,

Rochester, New York, who corresponded with PETER BARBARA

6/19/59 and ascertain that individual's connection with the

BARBARA family and whether the person knows anything about

instant meeting.

2.

Will cover same lead as above in respect to GEORGE

DEL VECCHIO, 55 Aurora Street, Rochester, New York, who

corresponded with PETER BARBARA 6/20/59.

AT TONAWANDA, NEW YORK

Will cover same lead as above in respect to Mr. and

Mrs. ANTHONY SCOLINO,

403 sommerville Drive, who correspondec

with PETER BARBARA 6/23/59.

THE DALLAS OFFICE:

AT DALLAS; TEXAS

1.

Will recontact DL 105-C (T-138) to determine whether

any information has been developed by him in respect to instant...

meeting or any sources who may be able to furnish information

regarding the same..

Will continue efforts to develop source or sources

who may be able to inform of the reason for JOSEPH FRANCIS

CIVELLO's attendance and the purpose of the meeting.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306689 Page 2

---

## Page 3

AL 62-1152

CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANTS:

The identities of the symbol informants in the

attached report are as follows:

I-4

New York CI 169-c

T- 13

Boston CI 692-C

T-20

Boston CI 639-0

T- 32

New York CI 2151-C

T-46

Albany PCI FELIX ANTHONY JULIAN

T - 65

Kansas City CI 254-C, as in report of SA RUSSELL P.

CURTIS, 6/5/59, Kansas City, entitled,

"MAFIA.

I -66

I- 68

I - 69

T-76

I-129

T-132

ANTHONY FERTITIA, Houston PCI.

Philadelphia CI 521-C

Philadelphia CI 526-C

Philadelphia CI 525-c

Albany PCI JOSEPH CA PALACES

Miami

CI MM 665-PC as in Miami letter to Director

dated

6/24/59.

T-133

Albany CI 3003-0

I-134

T-135

I-136

I-137

U.S. Postmaster R.W. DELANEY, Endicott, New York

Kansas City PCI SYDNEY P. MANKWITZ as in above-

mentioned

report SA RUSSELL P. CURTIS.

Kansas City CI 149-C as mentioned in SA CURTIS' report.

Federal Bureau of Narcotics Inspector CLAUDE A.

FOLLMAN, Kansas City, Missouri, who requested

that certain information furnished by him be

proected under a t-symbol, as set out in above

_ G

-

COVER

1 PAGE

| DocId: 32306689

Page 3

---

## Page 4

AL 62-1152

T-138

T-139

report of SA CURTIS.

Dallas

Confidential Informant DL 105-C, as in Dallas

letter to Albany, 6/20/59.

Dallas

Confidential Informant 95-C as in the same

letter.

- H

COVER

• PAGE

DocId: 32306689

Page

---

## Page 5

AL 62-1152

Hoodlum

Possible Source

SEBASTIAN JOHN

LA ROCCA (TOF

associate

GABRIEL "KELLY"

MANNARINO

Interviewed ?

Yes

(See below

this chart

Yes

(See below

this chart

Result

Furnished no

information

re meeting

Refused

to

disclose

purpose of

meeting but

claims there

was

nothing

sinister

about

gathering.

Furnished no

information

re meeting

SAMUEL MANNARINO

Yes

(national top hoodlum

and close associate

who was not present

at Apalachin meeting)

GEORGE "MOON" MESSER Yes

(former business

partner in coin machine

concern.

Now a numbers

writer and PCI of

Pittsburgh Office.)

MAX: GOLDBERG,

Yes

deceased.

(Prior to

death in 12/58 was

personal accountant

for GENOVESE and other

Pittsburgh national

top hoodlums.)

FREDERICK G.

Yes

BATTAGLIA, 5152

Liberty Avenue,

Pittsburgh, Pa.

(Insurance

agent for

GENOVESE and national

top hoodlum SEBASTIAN

JOHN LA ROCCA.)

- 15 -

11

: 11

DocId:32306689 Page 5

---

## Page 6

AL 62-1152

Hoodlum

Possible Source

Interviewed?

ANTHONY VISCO

Yes

Ill ShetLand Ave.,

Pittsburgh, Pa. (Close

personal friend and

former

landlord who

recently sold GENOVESE

his 90 acre

farm).

AUGUST BECKER

Yes

RD 2, BOX 149A.

Gibsonia, Pa. (next

door neighbor and tenant

Of GENOVESE who has

criminal record and is

PCI of Pittsburgh Office).

Yes

Result

Furnished no

information

re meeting.

11

"

11

SEBASSEEN JOHN

LA ROCCA

(Pittsburgh)

Pittsburgh, Pa.

(Former Pittsburgh

top hoodlum and

present business

partner of GENOVESE).

FRANCES PRIAM

Yes

medium-priced

prostitute who is

former waitress at

Genovese Cocktail

Lounge and is now

Pittsburgh informant).

Hangouts

Genovese Cocktail Yes

Lounge, now known as

Red Eagle Club, 412

Larimer Avenue,

Pittsburgh, Pa.

Controlled by

national top

- 16 -

11

11

Coverage of

visitors and

meetings by

informants of

Pittsburgh

Office; very

little

DocId:32306689 Page 6

---

## Page 7

AL 62-1152

Hoodlum

Possible Source

hoodlum MIKE GENOVESE

and financially backed

Dy LA ROCCA.

(Informant

coverage established).

No other

recent

hangouts.

Interviewed? Result

activity

since

Apalachin

meeting.

Estranged wife

Girlfriends

None

FRANCES PRIAM, mEdIUM-

priced prostitute and

former "steady date."

(Now a Pittsburgh

informant.)

Yes

Furnished no

information

re meeting.

Now dates

younger

brother of

LA ROCCA.

Former paramour died

8-10 years ago of

incurable disease.

Subject never again

became involved, say

informants.

Disgruntled Relatives

Mrs. SEBASTIAN JOHN

LA ROCCA, WiIe, Ingomar,

Pa. (believed dis-

gruntled during more

than year "disappearance"

Of LA ROCCA IOLLOWINg

Apalachin conference.

Servants

MISS HELEN MELANIK,

individual originally

thought to be servant,

found

to be relative

of Mrs. SEBASTIAN

JOHN

LA ROCCA..

NO

Yes

Furnished no

information

re meeting.

Yes

11

11

-17-

DocId: 32306689 Page 7

---

## Page 8

AL 62-1152

Hoodlum

Possible Source

GEORGE "MOON"

MESSER (former

business partner in

coin machine business.

Now a numbers writer

and PCI of Pittsburgh

Office.)

JOHN CONTI

9576 Perry Highway,

Pittsburgh, Pa.

nephew and business

associate).

Yes

MAX GOLDBERG, deceased, Yes

(Prior to death in

12/58 was personal

accountant for LA ROCCA

and other Pittsburgh

national...top hoodlums).

DE. JOHN D MILLER,

Yes

4825 Mooridge Dr.,

Pittsburgh, Pa.

(Personal physician

Of LA ROCCA and other

Pittsburgh national

top hoodlums and their

families; head surgeon

at Pittsburgh's

Mercy

Hospital).

CHARLES BENGELE

Yes

(Chief serviceman at

LA ROCCA's Coin Machine

Distributing Co. in

Pittsburgh for many years.

Still so employed and

loyalto LA ROCCA.)

Interviewed? Result

Yes

Furnished no

information

re meeting.

11

- 19÷

DocId:32306689 Page 8

---

## Page 9

AL 62-1152

II. Laurentian Mountains, 50 Miles from Montreal

Information has previously been reported (page 136,

report SA ARTHUR V. HART, 5/21/59, Albany) that information was

alleged that a meeting of Italian hoodlums similar to instant

meeting

was to be held in the Laurentian Mountains about 50

miles from Montreal some time after December 23, 1958. It

confidentially advised the Assistant Commissioner of the

suggested consideration be given that the meeting could be

at a lodge owned by GIUSIPPE CATRONI, 345 EmoryStreet

Apartment <, Montreal:

CATRONI is described as a notorious

narcotic-trafficker at St. Adele, North Province of quebec,

canada, telephone cA p-3741A

In this connection it is noted that the local press

carried a

brief item concerning the recent arrest of an

Individual who could be identical to this CATRONI, together

with others, at Montreal, Canada, in possession of some

kilos of heroin.

worth approximately $3,000,000.00. A lead 1s

set out to obtain further data concerning this and any

connection there may be between Apalachin hoodlums and this

Montreal operation since It has been alleged that a purpose

of instant meeting was to discuss narcotics.

Ee: INTERVIEWS OF POSSIBLE SOURCES

On March 11, 1959, at Galveston, Texas, Confidential

Informant Albany I-66 told SA JOHN E. FRANKLIN that he had been

in touch with BENNIE BICKERS at Dallas, Texas, on the telephone

and BICKERS informed that he had been unable to determine the

reason for JOSEPH FRANCIS. CIVELLO of Dallas having attended

instant meeting.

Informant said it appeared that BICKERS

would be unable

to determine why CIVELLO was in attendance.

On June 9, 1959, I-66 was recontacted by SA FRANKLIN

and he said that approximately one month before he had been in

touch with BICKERS (a friend of CIVELLO). Informant said

BICKERS told him he had been unable to determine why CIVELLO

went to Apalachin.

- 39 -

DocId:32306689 Page 9

---

## Page 10

AL 62-1152

INDEX OF NAMES

ACCARDO, TONY, P. 27

ALAIMO, DOMINIC JOHN, PP. 12,

AMERICAN LAMINATING CO., P.44

ANASTASIA, P. 34

ANTINALI, JOSEPH, P. 32

ANTINALI,

PAUL,

P. 32

ARNONE, MICHAEL, P. 13

AUBURN GLASS CO., P. 3

BAGNASCO, SAM, P. 40

BAILEY, C.B.,

PP. 45,46

BAMBOO CLUB, PP. 37,38

BARBARA, ANGELA,

P. 43

BARBARA, CHARLES, P. 2

BARBARA, MRS. GUISEPPINA, P.

BARBARA, PETER,

PP. 43,44

BARBARA,

JOSEPH, JR., PP. 2,

27,28,48

BARBARA, JOSEPH, SR.,

32 3 55, 6.27,29,30,35,40,

BARBARA, MRS. JOSEPH, SR., PP.

43,44

BARENATO, JACK,

PP. 37,38

BATTAGLIA, FREDERICK G., PP.

15,20

BECKIN, AJOUST,

P. 28

P. 16

BENDER, AL, P.

BENGELE, CHARLES, P. 19

BENT SALES CO., P. 40

BICKERS, BENNIE, P. 39

BLACK HAND, P. 31.

BOMPENS IARO, FRANK, P. 24

BOMPENS IARO, SAM

P. 24

BONANNO, JOSEPH, PP. 6,7,12,13,

26,28,48

BONVENTRE, JOHN,

P.: 48

BORDONARO, JOHN, P. 21

BRAUNSTEIN, HENRY, P. 40

BRUNO, FRANK, P. 27

BUFALINO, RUSSELL A., PP. 12,13,

20,20,41,47

CALIFORNIA CHEESE CO., P. 23

CANNONE 'S BAR, P. 3

CANNONE, FRANK, P. 3

CANNONE, IGNATIUS, PP: 3,42,47

CAPONE SYNDICATE,

. P. 27

CARBONE, CHARLES,

24

CARLISI; ROY, PP. 46,48

CARLUCCI, VICTOR E.,

P. 22

"CARMINE, " P. 36

CASCRO, CARL, P. 42

CASELIA, PETER, PP.

37,38

CASEY, VINCENT, PP. 14,10,21

CANTELLANO, PAUL, P.: 48

CASTIGLIA, DOMINIC, P. 7'

CASTIGLIA, NASH, ₽•

CATALDO, JOE, P. 28

CATENA, GERARDO V., P. 48

CATRONI, GIUSIPPE,

P. 39

CAUGHLIN, JOHN JOSEPH, P: 34

CARRITO, JOSEPH, PP. 23, 24

CHIRI, SALVATORE CHARLES,

P. 48

CIAPPARRO, CALOGARO, P. 10

CIVELLA, CARL, P. 11

CIVELIA, NICHOLAS, PP. 11,31,46,

CIVELLO, JOSEPH FRANCIS, PP. 36,

37,39,48

CLUB

82, P.. 13

CLUB MELODY, P. 9

COLLETTI, JAMES, PP: 7,8,9,42,48

COLLETTI, VICTOR: (VITO), P. 7

COLLETTI, VITO, P.

COLONIAL RESTAURANT,

P.34

COLORADO CHEESE CO.S

P: 7

COMPISI, JOE, P. 3%

CONTI, JOHN, P. 19

- 50 -

DocId:32306689 Page 10

---

## Page 11

AL 62-1152

LANZA, P. 23

LAFASSO,

LOUIS, P. 47

LA ROUCA 'S COIN MACHINE

DISTRIBUTING 0O.,

P, 19

LA ROCCA, SEBASTIAN JOHN

PP. 14,15.16, 17, 18, 19,20,

21,48

LA ROCCA, MRS. SEBASTIAN JOHN,

P. 1!

LASAVIO, ANTHONY, P. 8

LASCOLA, DR. AUGUST, P. 6

LA VOSSAR,

JOSECH, P. 26

LELO, P. 28

LEOUMIS, S.C., P. 44

LEVIGNE, ANTHONY, P. 10

LOMBARDOZZI, CARMINE, PP. 35,

36,48

LUCIANO, CHARLES, P. 33

MAFIA, PP. 30,31,32,42

MAGADDINO, ANTONIO, PP. 4,5,47

MAGADDINO, STEVE, P. 5

MAGGIO, MIKE, P. 24

MAGLIOCCO, JOSEPH, PP. 28,29,

33,48

MAGLIOCCO, TONY, P.P.

28,29

MA JURI, FRANK, P. 47

MANCUSO, ROSARIO, P. 48

MANGANO, PHILIP,

P. 33

MANGANO, VINCENT, P. 33

MA NHA TÁN BAR & CAFE; 3.

MANNARINO, GABRIEL "KELLY, "

PP: 14,15,18,20,48

MANNARINO, SAMUEL, PP. 14,15,

18,20,21,22

MARINO, ANGELO, P. 24

MARINO, PETIE,

P. 28

MARINO, SALVATORE, PP. 23,24

MARINO, THOMAS ALOYSIUS, P. 35

MARINO, TODDO, P. 28

MELANIK, HELEN, P. 17!

MENCHI,

MESSER, GEORGE

15,19

MILLER, DR. JOHN R., P. 19

MIRANDA, MICHELE,

MIRANDA, MIKE, P. 28

MODERN PLUMBING,

P. 8

MONACHINO, PATSY, P. 48

MONACHINO, SAVERIO, PP. 3,48

MONZANA, CHARLES ,

P. 5

MONTANA, JOHN CHARLES, PP.5,6,7,

MORGAN, RED, P. 38

MOTISI, MR. 8 MRS. G., P. 43

MULLIGAN, MIKE, P. 24

MULLIGAN,

SWATS, P. 28

MUSSO, CHARLES V., P. 8

NAPLES, ANTHONY, P.

NEGRA, FRANK, P. 38

NELSON, ARTHUR D. "ARCHIE"P. 16

NICOLA, ANTHONY P., P. 43

NORMANDIE RESTAURANT, P. 34

OLIVETO, DOMINICK, PP. 12,49

OSTICCO, DAVE, P. 13

ISTICCO, JAMES

P. 47

"OUTER CIRCLE,

PP. 32,33

OWI'S DEN, P. 8

PALMIERI, EDWARD L., P. 46

PASQUALE, GUY, P. 2

PATRIARCA, RAYMOND, P. 41

PERMANENT RECORDS CO.,

P. 43

PETRILLO, ANTHONY, P. 40

PFEIFFER

MACOMB DISTRIBUTORS, P.10

PIALLA, FRED , P. 43

PIELS BREWERY, P. 29

PIRILLO, LEON ANTHONY, P. 38

PLAS, STEVE, P. 11

FOLIELL, ANGELO, P. 40

POLIZZI, MICHAEL: P. 40

PRIAM, FRANCES,

PF, 16,17

PRICCO, JOHN, P. 1L.

PROFACI, FRANK, P. 27

PROFACI, JOSEPE, ET. 27,29,31,32,

PROFFICO, P. 32

-52 -

DocId: 32306689 Page 11

---

