# docid-32335354

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/19/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90123-10020

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-12262-2X

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 56829 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

WHITE HOUSE

FROM:

WH

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 03/04/1941

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

PAUL RAIGORODSKY

PAUL M. RAIGORODSKY

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOS

COMMENTS: PROCLAMATION, REFERRED TO DOS

**

v9.1

HH 56829

DooId: 32335354

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONTROL OF THE EXPORT OF GERTAIN ARTICLES AND MATERIALS

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

116473

WHEREAS section 6 of the act of Congress entitled

"AN AOT. To expedite the strengthening

national

defense", approved July 2, 1940, provides as follows:

"Sec. 6, Whenever the President determines

that it is necessary in the interest of national

defense to prohibit or curtail the exportation.

of

any military equipment or munitions, or component

parts thereof,

or machinery, tools,

or material, or

supplies necessary for the manufacture,

servicine,

or operation thereof, he may by proclamation pro

hibit. or curtail such exportation, except under

such rules and regulations as he shall prescribe.

Any such proclamstion shall describe the articles

or materials included in the prohibition or curtail-

mont contained therein.

In case of the violation of

any provision of any proclamation, or of any rule

or regulation, issuod

such violator of

violators, upon conviction,

he can be unished by

a fine of not more than $10,000,

or by imprisonment

Ior not more than two years,

or

by both such fine

and imprisonment.

The authority grantod in

this

soction shall terminate June

30,.

1942, unless the

Congress shall othorwise provide."

NOW,

THEREFORE, I, FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT,

President

of the United States of America, acting under

and by

virtue of the authority vested in me oy.

the aforesaid

act of Congress;

do horcby proclaim that upon

the recom-

mendation of the Administrator of Export

Control I have

determined that it is necessary in the interest of the

national defense that

on and after April 15, 1941,

the

following-doscribed articles and materials shall not be

exported from the United States except when authorized

in oach case by a license as hereinafter provided:

Any model, dosign, photograph, photographic

negativo, document;

or.

article or material,

containina a plan,

specification,

or descriptive

or technical information of any kind (other than

that appoaring generally in

a form available to the

public, which can be used or adapted for use in con-

nection with any process,

synthesis,

or operation

In thoroductlong anufacture.

reconstruction

of. any of

the articles

or materials

the exportertoi

of which is prohibited

or curtailed in accordance

with the provisions

section 6 of the act of

Congress epproved July 2,

1940, or of any

basis

or intermodiary constituent of

any such articles

or materials.

And. I do hereby empower

the Admin"

crator of Export

Control to issue liconses authorizing t = exportation of

any

HH 56829

DocId:32335354

Page 2

---

## Page 3

-2-

any of the above-named articles and materials in accordance

with rules and regulations prescribed by

the

President.

ProcLamation No: 1223, of September 12, 1940,

1940 1 16

nereby superseded excent so far as and to the extent that

it relates to (1) equioment (excluding minor component

parts) which can be used, or adapted

to use,

for

the pro-

duction of aviation motor fuel las is defined in the

regulations issued pursuant to proclamation No. 2ti,

of

JUly 26, 1940,

as may from time to time be

amended).from

petroleum; petroleum products, hydrocarbon, or hydro-

carbon mixtures,

py processes involving chemical change;

and. (2) equipment (excluding minor component parts) which

can be used, or adapted to use,

for the production of

tetraethyl lead (as is defined

in the regulations

issued

• pursuant

to Froclamation No. 2417, of July 26, 1940, as

may

from time to time be amended).

Proclamation No: 2151, of December 20, 1940, is

hereby superseded so far

as and to the extent that it

relates to plans for the production of

aviation lubricat-

ing oi1.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,

I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of

the United States of America: to be

affixed:

DONE at the city of Washington this

4th day of

March, in the year of our lord nineteen hundred and

forty-one, and of the Independence of the United states

Of America the one hundred and sixty-fifth.

[SEAL]

FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT

By the President:

CORDELL HULL

Secretary of State.

HH 56829

DocId:32335354

Page 3

---

