# docid-32200057

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10274-10292

RECORD_ SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 100-445393-53

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: OFLYNN, EDWARD J.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/16/1967

PAGES: 94

SUBJECT: JFK, ASSA, CONSPR THEORY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Secret

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

10/30/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32200057

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev: -17-95)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

SAN FRANCISCO

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

SECRET

DATE

3 CUT INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

SAN FRANCISCO

6/16/67

5/22 -

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION

TPORT MADERY

DEGLASSIFICATION ANIIOREDWARD J. O'FLYNN

(RAMPARIS MAGAZINERETNCSE UF CIA INFOR NARACTER OF CASE

SEE REVERSE

TYPED B

SIDE. FOR

CLASSlKahtIO

ACTION

EN THS DOCUMENT, KP 5 - 14-98

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

Exempt fronG

Dated

273,

RECESTENCED PET SPILL STIN

EXTENDED BY

BEASON ECU

-2.9.38

FCIM. !:

REFERENCE: Bureau letter to

DATE OF BEYX:

San FranciDE6LAS5/a8k6&u

Dolated Cory Sont Monkey.

by. Lebtor.

4-14.76

ADMINISTRATIveest.fyY

Classified by

Declassify

340

This report is classified

Secret':

as information

accredited to SF T-34 is information received from CIA classified

"Secret i

Infornation accredited to SF T-28

is information

obtained from CIA memoranda and was used in

characterizing

some "individuals mentioned. in this report.

of this information is in Bureau files,

The original

but

because of

its

current unavailability to the San Francisco

Office and its us

which was limited to secondary

documentation,

this informatio

was credited to CIA under symbol T-28

SLIP (:

ADVISET.

AND FIFLE

APPROPRI

34.326 42419

Lof Pending

ICES

NG

AGENCIES

COPIES MADE ANS

B84R4?

2-Boston

(RM) acc's madeof

Grassiasa

Chicago (RM) CPA+771p

2- Denver (RM)

HSChrevien

-New Haven (RiNda Rolent, Declassi

2- New

York (RM) reques 1t) 38-78.

-DEN

LOS

-San-Francisco: (157-459)

Angeles (RM) 3C/P+33.20 ALASS.

2XT.

FEASOL -P

DALE

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

REVIEW

Notatio

--==* DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELO

445393-53

31489586B2n/6CL -211,326)

IN 19 1967

53168

REC-72

DRK

Agency

art Recd.

23-67

1/S A

How, Fwa.

licion c

SEREFORE

÷ 302

DocId: 32200057

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SF 157-459

EJO: kah

SECRET

SPORT

Substantive information received from CIA classified

"Secret" has been reported under symbol T-34 for the dual

purpose of 1.)

masking the source of this information under

a second I symbol and 2.) Keeping the substantive information

received from CIA separate from the information used in

Information originating in or from bureau files u

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

K240-57(814)

SF T-2 is

CSNY 1

File Where Located

Ex 234-2573-2002 XED

Characterization of

Liberty Circulation Corp.

Characterization of

THEODORE COHN

T-3 is

6559-5 3(K)(u)

SE T-4 1s

517-S

'-5

is

2502-S

it

Characterization of

CAROL COHN

-I-o

SE 2867-S

SE T-7 is

CSSF 3,3-X

Characterization of

ALAN PEZARO

157-459-95

Characterization of

DAVID P. WELSH •

SF T-8 is

FRANCIS %. RADNICH, Assistant Managers

Crocker-Citizens National Bank,

625 Battery Street, San Francisco

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32200057

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SF 157-459

EJO: kah

SECRET

Identity of Source

SF T-9 is

JOHN D. RUSHER, UR.,

Executive Vice President,

Hartford National Bank and Trust Co.,

Hartford, Connecticut

SF T-10 is

DANIEL E. WILLIAMS, Assistant Manager,

Chemical Bank of New York,

I E. 42nd St., New York City

SF T-11 is

Mr. CHARLES CLONES, Chief Clerk,

Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company,

221 Park Avenue, South

New York City

Ly 559-

SF T-13 is

NY 4716-R

- T-14 is

FBI P.O. Box 416, San Francisco

under name of "JUNE LASKA""

T-15 is

1040-5* U)

, T-16 is

Бг 1302-5*

T-17 is

EF 1175-5

SF T-18

File Where Located

Characterization of

L. M. Rabinowitz Foundation

NY 170-38A-29

157-459-47

Characterization of

LOUISE BRANSTEN

li

characterization of (au)

GEORGE A. OPPEN

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32200057

Page 1

---

## Page 5

SF 157-459

EJO : kah

SECRET

Identity of Source

SE I-19 is

FBI surveillance of

Russian Consulate at

San

Francisco on 10/5/43

% 623

1,

613-51

(4)

SE_T-21 is

.....

Schweizerische Bun des polizei

(Swiss Federal Police, Bern,

Switzerland)

File Where Located

=1-22 1.5

SF 2580-S

Characterization of

CARLTON GOODLETT

0f

Characterization

CARLTON GOODLETT

I-23. 15

SF 1182-S€

'SF I-24

is

SF 413-S

SF I-25 is

SF 1050-S*

(и.)

Characterization of

GENEMARINE

SF I-26 is

SF 2011-S

Characterization. of

GENE MARINE

Characterization of

GENE MARINE

Characterization of

DONALD ROTHENBERG

SF T-27 is

SF 2960-S

Characterization of

GENE MARINE

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32200057

Page 5

И)

(us

---

## Page 6

SF 157-459

EJO: kah

dentity of Source

1-28

is

Note:

SECRET

SECTIONE

File Where Located

Characterization of

ELEANOR JACKSON PIEL

Characterization of

SOL STERN

AU)

Original source of information credited

to this source is in Bureau files.

Because of use as secondary documentation

and current unavailability of Bureau

sources these characterizations are

credited to CIA

Characterization

DONALD ROTHENBERG

LA 223

is

2954-S

"SF

T-30 is

SF

1739-S

SE T-31

NY 359-S

(4)

SF T-32 is

WILLIAM YOUNG,

Bankers Trust,

1107 Broadway: New York

City

SE

T'-33 is

1196-S*

Characterization

STANLEY K. SHEINBAU

Characterization

YEHUDA STERN

of.

Characterization of

SOL STERN

Characterization of

DAVID P. WELSH

elus

SE T-34 is

CIA (Information in CIA

memoranda captioned ROBERT SCHEER,

dated March

9, 1967, classified

" Secret'i)

802) (u)

157-459-159

- 5 .

COVER PAGE

SECRFT

DocId: 32200057 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SF 157-459

EJO: kah

SECRET

BROKEN

Identity of Source

T-35 is

MI-5 (letter 2/1/67

classified

"Secret:)

K$ (9)

SF T-36

File Where Located

100-46832-427

!

157-459-67

Special Agents who provided information utilized in

this

report are identified as follows:

Date of Activity

5/21/65

10/15/65

3/3/66

Special Agent

SA LAWRENCE J. NELSON; et al:

SA JACK E. BAKER

SA WILLIAM' A. WHELAN

LEADS:

BOSTON

AT BOSTON,

MASSACHUSETTS: Furnish information identify-

ing MARTIN PERETZ who was

"Tisted as Director of Ramparts and as

a stockholder (see page 20) who solicited funds for Ramparts.

2

19-22), a financial contributor.to Ramparts and a member of the

10122 or rectors age

Furnish information on RICHARD A. RUSSELL (pages

Board of Directors (page 34) who has business interests in Boston.

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO: ILLINOIS: Identify E. A. SALK and Salk,

Ward and

Salk,

Inc.,

who transferred $5,000 to Ramparts

(see page 20).

DENVER

AT DENVER

_ COLORADO: Review registration statement of

• Ramparts

Magazine,

Inc. for Secord Class mail privilege and report

Publisher's statement on number and distribution of copies.

_ F

COVER PAGE

SECHi-

DocId: 32200057 Page 7

---

## Page 8

F0-24 119:

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECHEE

Siassiser

spimact

MADR

Copy to:

-

Report of:

Date:

"Field Office File i:

IDLARD J.

6/16/67

Office:

SAN FRANCISCO

157-459

Bureau File *:

100-445393

Title:

RAMPARTS, MAGAZINE

1-17.91

.. INC.

Czarsa

Escapt i

Date of Declaustrial!

2909

Choracter: 5683s de ails TEK

SECURITY - C

(SFL) REGISTRATION ACT

10,3

1 5 0-1787738

Synopsis:

Ramparts originated in 1962

as little magazine of liberal Catholic

thought

published by EDWARD M. KFATING.

In 1965 it broadened

its coverage and appeared as a monthly

magazine and circulation

increased from 7,500 to 222,730 as of March, 1967. In May, 1967,.

KEATING voted out as publisher and he filed suit for $134,822

oved to him in loans and claimed he invested $860,000 in

magazine.

WARREN HINCKLE, Editor, claimed that magazine operating

at $400,000 yearly loss.

Identity of some of principal

contributors

set forth.

Speeches and press conferences of

Ramparts staff in opposition to Vietnam war reported.

versive affiliations of Rampants Directors and employeess en

forth. Contents of publication showing distortion and mas-

ADVIC

AND

representation in its political

CLASSIFIED SUD

3

7K982-3

set forth.,

APPROPRIATE

FILL

DETAILS: A

FICES

--fires.

TER

DATE

GF

16-87

12-3-80

M-41

DECLASSIFICATION.

PPEDICATION

IBS

This investigation

Magazine,

Inc.

initiated to determine if

Ral

is in violation of the Foreign Agents Registra

Act of 1938 in that it has not registered with the Attorney

General and nay currently be engaged in acts of distribution of

propaganda, acting as a political agent, collecting informations

forwarding

information, etc.

while acting as the agent cr a

foreign principal.

SE

ET

.1.

1.3

Group

Exclud

from automatic

downgrading and declassification

This document contains naither rec

This document contain mies ree noted at das no ced elusion el the elet 1s the property of the FBl and is loaned to

DocId: 32200057 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Classified, 9145 Mu

Declassify

FOX/PA + 24191

APPEAL H

CIVIL ACT

=.C.

2ict

ALL INFORMATION COMTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Find Des

314-13

(+3406-568371 (e232)

X1. 012

3. 14.

- - 11

DocId: 32200057

Page 9

---

## Page 10

SE 157-459

EJO: kah

SECRET

ROBERT SCHEER was in London on January 26, 1967,

at which time he claimed

that he was engaged in writing an

article about the International Students Conference (ISC) for

the American magazine Ramparts, of which he was the Editor.

article was intended tò

be an exposure, of the ISC and in order!

to obtain material for it SCHEER was planning to make a two day

visit to the headquarters of the International Union of Students

in Prague.

One point on which he

wished to obtain information

was the

passing of financial assistance from the ISC to student

unions in Africa and Latin America.

Source was under the

impression that SCHEER'S

story

to be published about the,

of February, 1967.

While in London,

SCHEER met with FERGUS NICHOLSON, who

is the national student

organizer of the Communist Party of

Britain, and with DAVIDKHOROWITZ, who is an American postgraduate

student at the London School of Economics and who has been

closely connected with the Bertrand russelt Peace boundation.

4.5. Enoland

Mento

SCHEER was due-to-leave

London for Amsterdam on

(x)(5)

January 27 and from there he intended to go to Paris

traveling to Prague on the 29th of January, 1967.8l

ISE I- 35,[2/1/670

X)4)

Ramparts Explanation of llow Expose on CIA Originated

The April 3, 1967 issue of The National Observer

weekly newspaper of national distribution published in New York

City, in an article captioned, "A New Magazine Rakes the Muck,

Finds Pay Dirt - Ramparts' Editors Uncloak The CIA, Blast Johnson:

and Gather Subscribers", reported that in interview with SOL STEPN

Assistant Managing Editor of Ramparts, it was explained how the

magazine's CIA expose originated. The National Observer article

15 quoted In part as follows: y

wash se

mikexwood

"Ramparts got the story from a disillusioned NSA

officer named Michaelyllood, who had known nothing of.

the CIA involvement until taken into the confidence of

the NSA president.

67

SECRET

DocId: 32200057 Page 10

---

