# docid-32339278

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90146-10110

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-93072-132 THRU 135

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 56829 Date:

04-13-2018

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO : HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/15/1965

8

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Not Assassination Related

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 4 MEMO

v9.1

HH 56829

DooId: 32339278

Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

BY LIAISOR

1 - Liaison

1 = Mr. Shackelford

ATE: INFORMATION CONDATITED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSTEZIO EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE:

Tols

DeLodch

Moht -

Wick

Casper

Callahan

Conrad.

Felt

Tale

Rosen

Sullivan -

j'avel

trotter -

le. Room -

Date:

To:

Barch 7r. 1966

Director

Central

Intelligence Agency

Attention:

Doputy Director, Plans

Froa:

Subjeqke

John Edgar Hoover, Director

"SUGAR'S INVOLVINNT WITH AUERICAN

426844

RADICAL ONGANIZATIOHS O

ichard thamas

105071

Keterence

is nade

to your letter of

Februa

1960 ,

captioned as above, your

TOPeraNce GSCI- 316/00844-66/5/ 0

Enclosed are

copies

reports of

: Bureau

entitled "Revolutionary Action Hovenent,

Interaal Security

Revolutionary Action Bovement

"Progressive

Labor Party, Internal

December

Security - Progreesive

Labor Party™

dated February 1,

106G,

respectively.

Information

avallable to. this Bureau

at this

time

pould indicate the Revolutionary Action Movenent and

Progressive Labor Party aze most suited to your stated

purpose

savolving

suxar in radioa. organizations and blac

4,2

nationaliat groups.

While ao roster

Qz 0011202 118t 19

available concerning the Revolutionary

Action Rovenent,

the

enclosed report of

Chat capston

• sets

forth current

activitiea

0l persons in canE groupS

Possibly,

the bast vohicle

the

Progressive

Labor Party would offer

for your purpose

• due to tho zadical

or tentar

thon and bize of this group.

Party

The

report sets forth cRee activitien

of that seoup

Reason-FOi

Date of Re

Faclosures

(2)

105-93

the There le

105-93072

RLS: dek dek

(7)

Engine rem CDS, Car

O MAR JO| 1966

12/20198

Dasan: Recognise

SMACGAT

Declassity

on

DADE

Bufile 10

G

Excluded

on

downgrad

declasz

and

Tracadon

2e: (Revolutionary ACtIon hovement)

104d Progressive Labor Party)

SEE NOTE PAGE 2.

MARA 7 1966

MAIL ROOMI

TELETYPE UNIT

I0.

100 i

RECORD

HH 56829

DocId: 32339278

Page 2

---

## Page 3

"SECRET

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

NOTE:

The Central Intelligence Agency(CIA) requested

infornation concerning radical organizations and black nationalist

groupYllich their informant, Sugar, a Negro expatriate LIVINg

In England, could attiliate himself

as an informant.

Sugar was

previously active in pro-Castro groups and had an unsavory

reputation.. He offered his services to the Bureau, for money,

This letter is classified "Secret" as referenced CIA

letter,

containing information concerning Sugar, is so

classified.

(S)

SECRET

NW 56829

DooId: 32339278

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

ENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

(Richned Themes GiBson)

18 FEB 196,6

TO:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Mr. S. J. Papichy

FROM:

Deputy Director for Plans d

SUBJECT:

SUGAR's Involvement with American Radical Organizations

Richard Thomas Gibson

1. This memorandum requests your Agency's comments, on a priority basis,

relative to improving the operational capabilities of SUCAR, a source of this

Agency known to you, whose reporting on expatriate American leftist personalities

we are forwarding on a continuing basis.

2. Despite our hopes and his efforts, SUGAR was unable to obtain an

invitation to the Tri-Continental Conference recently held in Havana, which was

a target for collection by this Agency. It is our belief that SUGAR's

reputation of being pro-Chinese was responsible for his exclusion. In

discussing this problem with important pro-Chinese communist personalities in

Europe recently, the latter suggested that his ability to secure access to

such meetings would be considerably enhanced if he could obtain a "grass-roots"

base: or connection in the United States which he could represent. In reporting

this suggestion--which strikes us as valid--SUGAR speculated on the possibility

that he might attempt to become the European

"representative" of the

Revolutionary Action Movement (RAM), an American organization of which he knows

little but which seems, from what he does know, to be consistent in its outlook

with his ostensible political orientation.

30

In this connection, we would very much appreciate receiving any

information you possess on RAM, its structure, personalities and membership.

We would welcome particularly, any mailing list or address roster of this

organization which night be pass let to sucAr without copramisto security

considerations.

To to @SC1316008444-66

105-93072132A9

MAR 9 1966

444/22689

1837041

I COPY FILED

TRECORDED

are checking a fire led

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINE DE

HEREIN IS UNCLANSINIED

fell es 100-442674

Dictor C 100-437041

+4C213416508

311066

55 MAR 4664966 4 2 2

149

SECRET

Vil. o 25-930775

sus

HH 56829

DocId: 32339278

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECREI

- 2 -

4. Most of al1, we would welcome your comments on this general problem,

given your Agency's broad knowledge of such organizations as RAM in this

country. As a negro expatriate with pretended pro-Chicom sympathies, SUGAR

has also cultivated a reputation for

sympathy toward the admittedly vague

and diverse manifestations of "black nationalism", and toward such personalities

as Robert Williams who embody it.

We would be most interested in receiving

both your comments on this general movement of opinion in the Unitea States,

and your descriptions of the organizations associated with it which could

enable us to provide information and guidance to SUGAR for developing an

association which would increase his operational access and effectiveness.

CSCI-316/00844-66

SECRET

HH 56829

DocId: 32339278

Page

5

---

## Page 6

S.

1

- Llaison

Ur. Mack

Mullins

Mr.

McN1tf

APPRITRIATS

AND ETE

PECTES

Date:

March 2, 1000

To:

Director

SIIP(S

XING

DATE

Central Intelliganco

Assention: Deputy

Plans

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

From:

John Eager Hoover,

Directos

HEREIM IS UNCLASSIRED! EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWDSEE.77

Subject!

DAY SO DIVISONICE

SECURITY HASTER - COUNTER

Clascide. by

Cremptfrom

Daie of Det

tassiric

feterenoo is undo to your lottes

o Scariasy

15%

100-

1986 г

coptiond David Dentrovica;

you refererico 213/

CSCI-316/00695-60,

S

Cassined by Spo& MAC/GATT

Declassify, ont

DAOR

JFR

This is to adviso

that tho pubitention

"Progresesve

Labort

is a binonthly pagealae publishod ty

tho Peogzessive

Labor Farty;

o Moraist-Lobinst organisation walch sonerally

follows the

Chinese

communist line. Inquiry da being made

of our New tors 022kco zogarding tho Identity ol

David Davidontos and you vial

be advised concernins bin

ween

recoipt of the

answer to ow taguiry.

Rogarding the reputation phtch Suger enjoys among

Leftist circles,

this Burcau has not developed any intormation

FLED IN

bearing on Sugar's roputation in tho Unitod Statoo since

lotter to

you concerning him dated bocember to

A22

portinent

in our possession regarding Sugar bas been

Turnished your Ageney

and we wilde

promptly: provide any

addactonal teterial

Peesived

phách

1 011

assies you in

evaluating his potentio?:

Mans sle

New York (Enclosure)

(108-12387)

105-93072 (Richard Thomas:

Gibson)

Exompilrom

0305

TJM: ngọ

SEE NOTE FOR SAC

NEW YORK PAGE TWO

Diao: 0

(11)

UZING

ANR TOE

NCT 260105 9 301₴

ADVISIO

SECRET

NOT RECORDED

SI:XP (9)

199 MAR 4 1966

DAST

CT.

DUPLICATE YELLOW

declassi

i nutomatic

adad

talion

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

SO MAK 141966

НН 56829

DocId: 32339278

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

NOTE FOR SAC, NEW YORK:

enclosed for your information is one copy of referenced

CIA lotter classified "Secret."

Sugar is the CIA code name for

Richard Thomas Gibson (New Yor? (ile 105-42387), a Security Index

(SI) subject of your office.

The identity of Sugar is to be

carefully protceted and is not to be carried

any

conmunication going outside the Bureau.

You should immediately ascertain the

identity of

David Davidowles and furnish the Bureau in letterhead memorandum

form suitable for discenination all available information

coneerning him.

If it is determined that Davidovica is not an

alias of a

eurrent SI subject, you should initiate an SM - C

type investigation concerning

hin in accordance with

instructions set forth in the Manual of Instructions,

Section 37D.

The results of this investigation should be submitted in

report for along with your recommendation as to whether on

not this individual should be included on the Security Inder.

Bureau indices contain no identifiable subversive

references to David Davidowtez.

It is noted, however,

that

one S. Davadowice, an alias of charles kosen,

New York file

100-138281, an SI subject of your office, was in detober, 1500,.

sisted as tanaging adator of the publication, "Progrossive Labor.

Prior to 1962 when he left the United States

to Live

In Africa and Purope, Sugar, who is currently residing in England,

had been active in pro-Castro groups and had a very unsavory /

He had preyiously asked the Bureau,

of obtasaing money.

to becone an FBI Informant and when turned

down, he oitered his services to CiA and they have since been

operating him.

leit

There vere rumors in radical circles at the time he

the United States that he was a

"Government Spy" but we

have recelved nothing

recent concerning this and it would appear

that hé is no

country.

(" discanad in subversira eireles in this

This letter is classified "Storet" as referenced CIA

letter, containing infornation concerning Sugar, le so elmonified.

S

SECRET

-2-

HH 56829 Do0Id:32339278

Page 7

---

## Page 8

- Mr. Mulltao

SAC, New York (105-42387)

Director, FBI (105-93072)

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS - CUBA

SECRET

1-5-66

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASS PIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHONA OTHERWISE

rication

ALPINE

OPRIATE AGENCIES

CERICES

AND

SI. IP

Tolson -

DeLoach

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

-Felt -

Gale

"Rosen

Sullivan

Trotter Fi

Wick-

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

ReBulet 11-15-65 and urlet 12-15-65. L

sureau has now reviewed subject's entire file

and despite his apparent close cooperation with CIA, does S

not believe he should be removed from the security index

until at least one year after he ostensibly began to

cooperate with CiA: thus, in the absence of any additiona]

subversive data which has not been reported and since his

case has been thoroughly reviewed by your office and the

Bureau, you may forego submission of the yearly status

letter

which is due this month and should set up a tickler

to advise the Bureau during May, 1966, of status of

subject's file.

recommendations concerning

his removal from the Security

At that tine Inder may also be submitted.

RAM: bjS

(4)

NOTE:

Subject was formerly head of the Fair Play for

Cuba Committee and is known to be a shifty and vacillating

character.

Director's approval to continue him on

Security Index was obtained on 5-27-65 despite fact we

had been told by ciA that he is now cooperating with it.

We have received various items from ClA since which indicate

that subject providing data regularly to Clam However, it

is believed we should wait at least one

prior to

removing him from the Security Index.

REC-22-

+ 105-93072-133

SECRET

5 JAN

1966

12130194

- Classified

БSSMAСЗАTИ

- Declassify

OAD&

OFK

MAILED 7

MAN 4

1968

COMiN-FDI

Exampt from CDS,

Daia d' Declassifie

1101

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

HH 56829

DocId:32339278

Page 8

---

## Page 9

TO

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITIONS

GSA FPAIR (41 (FR) 101-11.6

UNTED STATES GO NMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-93072)

DATE: DEG 1 5 1965

SAC, NEW YORK (105-42387) 07)

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS - CUBA

ReBulet 11/15/65.

A review of subject's case file reflects that

all pertinent information concerning GIBSON has been

furnished to the Bureau in form sultable for dissemination. L

REC 36

5010-108

Derm

2-Bureau (RM) TIT INPORMATION CONTATNED

I-New York

*OIN IS UNCLASSITIND

JEH: caa

10094. 5p8 mac SAT

(3)

JFK)

O JAN

129

61500

NATI

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

105-93072-1326

DEC 20 1965

§ва.

HH 56829 Do0Id:32339278

Page 9

---

