JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

5/14/201

“Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10287-10209
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-6054-651
om Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: BURKE, J. EDWARD
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 06/15/1964
“PAGES: 69
SUBJECTS :
LCN, ASSOC, MAFIA, DESCR, RES, B/F INT, CRIMINAL ACT,
CONSPR
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 06/26/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: — RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE i, INDEX PAGES 50-54

v9.1
DocId:32305079 Page 1



FEDELY’. sae ees OF IN™ ‘ESTIGATION

REPORTING OF Flog OFFICE OF ORIGIN OATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD:
CLEVELAND NEW YORK 615-6 176/64 - 68/64
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY . | tren sy
i J. EDWARD BURKE ral
LA COSA NOSTRA, aka. CHARACTER OF CASE : "Sm
we AR ~ CONSPIRACY
REFERENCES

Report of SA J, EDWARD BURKE, toot 13-63, at Cleveland.
Report of. SA JAMES P, FLYNN, yA 2 coat at New York,
Bureau letter to Cleveland, 3-6

- pe -
ENCLOSURES

TQ THE BUREAU:

Two (2) copies of letterhead memorandum characterizing

informants.
TO NEW YORK:
Two (2) copies of letterhead memorandum characterizing
informants.
APPROVED : zd 7 SPECIAL AGENT DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

- Bureau (92-6054) (Bees<2) I loos Y-

~ Cincinnati (92 i fae ote)

COPIES MADE:

OS |RRC- 2

Detroit (92-914)
Pittsburgh. (92-599 (Inro)
New York (92-230 and) (Enc. 2)
Cleveland. (92-7

VIN HHHW
1

Dissemination Record of Attached Report Notations

|

Agency

\Docla:32305079 Page 2


CV 92-748
ied INFORMANTS

CV T-1 is
cv 421-Pc

CV T-2 is

cv 54h-c ;

cv T-3 is

VICTOR N, CALAUTTI, PCI

cv T-4 is
ev 591-¢

cv T-5 is \
CV 553-C-TE

cv T-6 is
CV 557-PC

cv T-7 is
cv 344-¢

cv T-8 is
CV 278-C-TE

cv T-9 is
ANDREW MARINO, PCI

cv T-10 is
MI 623-C-TE

cv T-11 is
CV 516-C-TE

ev T-12 is
cv 529-¢

cv T-13 is
DE 868-C-TE

sd if - Clu
y COVER PAGE

DocId:32305079 Page 3



cv 92-748
ADMINISTRATIVE

The following information is being included in the
Administrative Section of this report because of its nature
the identity of the informants involved could not be concealed.

CV 278-C-TE was contacted on April 9-10, 1964, at
which time he advised that on the afternoon of April 9, 1964, he
contacted DOMINICK MALLAMO, aka., "BIG DOM," Youngstown, Ohio,
rackets leader, at MALLAMO's request, at the Workingmen's Club,
East Federal Street, Youngstown, and thereafter the two of them
drove to the home of PAUL ROMEO, ‘12th Street, Campbell, Ohio, —
previously reported as retired "head" of the "Calabrese Organization"
in the Youngstown area.

Upon arrival at the home, informant advised he and
MALLAMO went to the basement of the home, where. informant had
previously met with ROMEO. and MALLAMO, and MALLAMO remained in
one room, and.‘ROMEO took him into another room where there was
a@ large statue of the. Blessed Virgin Mary. “ROMEO advised -
informant he was going to make him “one of us," in that he felt
informant "is a good boy." ROMEO.took the informant by the hand
and instructed informant to kneel. before the statue, which
informant did, and.then: ROMEO knelt besidé him. -ROMEO instructed
informant to repeat after ‘him, "If-something happens any. place
and I: get caught, I don't talk." ROMEO. and the informant then
got up, and ROMEO poured 'two glasses of wine and told the informant,
‘You know what this is, this is blood, which-1s the: ‘bond-between
us," and. then ROMEO asked the informant, "Do you know me?"..-
and informant replied "No," and =ROMEO replied, "phat! good."
ROMEO then: asked, "Do you know DOMINICK?".and informant advised
"T know him from the Workingmen's Club," and ROMEO replied-
‘That's good." ROMEO then told the informant, “Sometime you
might have to say you don't. know DOMINICK, 0.K.?" and informant
replied in the affirmative. tan . :

Informant advised ROMEO again took him before the
statue: and told him to light. two candles, which hé provided,

and instructed him, when kneeling, to repeat, "I die before
I ‘squeal,"'which the informant did. ee ‘

elsscsatdinsp paaeesatt"
COVER PAGE

DocId:32305079 Page 4



OS

CV 92-748

Thén ROMEO advised informant that there are many
people in this world that are no good,: andthe "FBI is no good
people." ROMEO then stated, :"No-let nobody.-fool you because
you get mad» you must: never.iget:‘mad.+ See.-DOMINICK (MALLAMO)
before you make a move, and never. make a move by yourself,"
ROMEO then told the informant. ‘that: 1f°MALLAMO should go out of
town and the informant needs to see him.and“cannot, that he should
come to ROMEO, and he would call "CHEECH" (FRANK MARTEL). ROMEO
stated to informant, "You belong to us," and informant then
said, "If I belong to you, then you bélong to me too," and ROMEO
said "Yes." ROMEO said:"If. someone do something..wrong to you,
don't do something back, but go and see DOMINICK. You're too
young a man to die, and we get many young fellows to do. the job,
not one man, and not you." :

ROMEO then called MALLAMO into the room and the three
knelt .before the statue,..and informant again repeated, "I die
before I squeal. If sométhing happens any place. and I get caught,
I don't talk." ROMEO, then, asked the: informant,.;"What if. they
take you to jail and hit you..with.a.strap,, what'do you do?
Informant stated he told him he would get .mad,and: that he --
would kill the person, who hit. him, and ROMEO. said, "No, don't
do that, go and see DOMINICK (MALLAMO),". and informant said

O.K. at Pancersrsraarstyriaeis

Informant. then stated ROMEO took "holy water" .and
blessed informant and MALLAMO as they held hands, and the
informant was instructed to fold his hands, 8till.kneeling,
and told to repeat after ROMEO, “If I havé.to go’ to jail I
go." Informant then told. ROMEO ‘that. he. did not like this, -
in that 1f soméone hit him, hé would hit back or kill, and
ROMEO said, "No, we got people that do this: kind of business,"

Informant stated that all three then stood up, and
ROMEO. poured another glass. of wine for éach, and thé) ..;.~
three of them drank the wine. ‘ROMEO then asked informant. if he
was able to travel, if. MALLAMO could not go,-and informant said
he was. ROMEO then asked, "Suppose. I-neéd you to go. to.Steubenville,
can you go?" and informant replied that he could, and ROMEO"
asked, "To. Cleveland?" and informant again replied he could.

Pein veer
‘ COVER PAGE

DocId:32305079 Page 5



&

“CV 92-748

ROMEO cautioned informant that he was. not allowed
to carry a gun anymore, and told the informant he knew the
informant had a blackjack and also told him to put it away.
He alsg told him,to make sure he never carried a gun or
blackjack in his car at anytime.

Just before leaving, ROMEO told the informant "DOMINICK
tell you when going to have a meeting."

’ Informant advised he attended a dinner meeting at the

: Workingmen's Club, East Federal Street, Youngstown, onthe night

of April 10, 1964, which was in regard to the telephone call

he had received earlier from MALLAMO that day, and not to drive
his car to that location, but either to walk or call him, and~

he would. have someone pick him up. .Contrary to informant's
previous opinion, he was not required to make a trip that night.
Present at the dinner meeting were about 20. or 25 persons, all
not. known to the informant. After they. had all eaten, DOMINICK —
MALLAMO got up and addressed the group.and introduced the informant
as a new member, and stated "he is now one of us." MALLAMO. -
also remarked to the group that the group had to stick together
as one, otherwise they will fall apart. He also mentioned that
many members are behind on their-monthly dues, and also mentioned
that the initiation fee is $100 followed by monthly dues of

$10 per month. Informant recognized the following at the

dinner meeting, in addition to MALLAMO.

JOSEPH "BLACKIE" GENNARO, inievilie, Pennsylvania
and Youngstown, Ohio black top contractor, race horse owner, and
hanna of the Pennsylvania ‘State Boxing Commission

’(FNU) RICH, a partner, PUTKO, WASHKO & RICH Funeral
Directors, Campbell, Ohio.

SAM ZARLENOO, owner, Royal Cafe, East Federal Street,
Youngstown, Ohio.

ANTHONY AULISIO, owner, Aulisio Fish Market, East
Federal Street, Youngstown, Ohio.

= FR -
COVER PAGE

DocId:32305079 Page 6



cv 92-748
TONY VERSAGE, aka., "TONY THE BUICK," Youngstown, Ohio.

‘ee

"CHICKIE", former bartender at the Skyway, Youngstown.
"COCKEYED JIMMY; Campbell, Ohio.

Informant stated that after the dinner, he went with
MALLAMO to the kitchen of the Workingmen's Club at which time
he asked MALLAMO about the initiation fee, and told MALLAMO he
hadn't told him this before, and MALLAMO told him not to worry
about it, and that the informant will bemking money soon.

At this same time MALLAMO instructed the informant
never to talk business over the telephone, stating that the
FBI has the telephones tapped, and the best thing for the
informant to do is to make a call and then, set a place.and a
time for a meeting, and then discuss his. business in person.
MALLAMO again stated "The FBI is no good, and you be careful, as
they even have FBI women." MALLAMO also mentioned he is not
satisfied with JOHN SALVATORE at. the C.M:A.S. Club, and they will
have to watch him closely. SALVATORE brought a lot of "heat"
on the Club recentlywhen he purchased some stolen clothing from
two Negroes. é

Informant was contacted on April 25,1964, at which
time he was questioned. as to-what. group he. considers. himself to
be a member of, and he advised he believes. he bécame a member
of, the. "Calabrese.-Organization,."which in the Youngstown area
has as its active head, DOMINICK MALLAMO and PAUL ROMEO of
Campbell, Ohio, being the retired "head.". He advised that at
no time.during the initiation ceremony did ROMEO.-use the
words "La Cosa Nostra,” however,. he did tell informant. he was
going to make him "one of us.": He also stated that. to date,
no other superiors have beén identified to him, nor has he obtained
any information as to the connection of this group with
groups in other cities.

RR KH HH HHH

A é - ¢ -
: COVER PAGE

DocId:32305079 Page 7



cv 92-748

In connection with the influence of the Calabrese group
headed by ANTHONY MILANO of Cleveland, CV 344-C gave the
following as an illustration: :

He stated that in about 1958 he backed a sheriff's
candidate in Mansfield, hoping that if he was elected he would
be able to open:a house of prostitution in Mansfield and within
the jurisdiction of the sheriff. The candidate was elected
without any support whatsoéver of TONY MOLLICA. He started his
house of prostitution, which was a money making proposition and
shortly thereafter MOLLICA approached him and told him that
people in town were talking and saying that he, MOLLICA, was
responsible for the house bel! able to operate and it was
giving him a bad name because "members" are not. supposed to
engage in prostitution. Informant told MOLLICA that he had '
nothing to worry about as he was not involved, and it then
became apparent that MOLLICA was trying to get. part of the
operation and profit. MOLLICA then, turned to MIKE ROMEO of
Poland, Ohio, brother of PAUL ROMEO of Campbell, who was. a
friend of informant's father, and ROMEO called on the informant on
pehalf of MOLLICA. ‘ROMEO told informant that he was "out of line"
and was giving MOLLICA a'bad reputation. in that he had moved
into MOLLICA's territory. ROMEO told CV. :344-¢ to close the
house for a couple of months so that everything would "cool" down.
Informant refused and told ROMEO he was not out. of line and
secured his own "fix". by backing the sheriff in the election and
the sheriff wanted nothing to do with. MOLLICA and would not
allow him to operate anything. Informant statéd: he. was mad about
this interference and then wrote a letter to his father in
Buenos Aires and later received an answer to the letter... With
the answer he was instructed to.take thé letter to-PINDELLI's
good friend, ANTHONY MILANO in Clevelarid, and according to
CV 344-c; he did-this. A couple of days : later “informant..was
called by "WHITEY" BESASE, who. instructed him to come to-

Akron to the home of JAMES’ LA FATCH for a meeting. He was told
to come there with MOLLICA, but. informant refused stating he. was
not going to.be "dumped" en route or at. the meéting. He then
called MILANO in the presence of MOLLICA and told MILANO what
they wanted of him.

a: eee
COVER PAGE

DocId:32305079 Page 8


cv 92-748

MILANO instructed MOLLICA that he was instructing
"the kid" (the informant) to accompany him to Akron, and told
MOLLICA that if a "hair'on the head of PANDELLI" was harmed he
would see that the whole bunch was taken care of. Imformant then
got on the phone and was instructed by MILANO to go to Akron
with MOLLICA and everything was going to be all right, and he would
not be hurt. Informant stated they went to Akron to JAMES LA
FATCH's home where about 20 persons were assembled. After a
dinner, all except informant retired to the basement where
MOLLICA and MIKE ROMEO were interrogated.‘ Informant advised
MOLLICA.lied and denied that he had Said what he had and ROMEO
became infuriated and left. Evéryone shook hands with t he
informant except ROMEO, and informant was told that he was
"not out of Line" and he should continue to operate. He
recalled the following individuals at the meeting:

LA FATCH:

MOLLICA

ROMEO

"WHITEY" BESASE
LEO '‘MOCERI
ERNIE.LA SALLE
‘ANTHONY DELSANTER
Many strangers

cv 344-c stated that about two weeks later he was —
called to the:-Ritz Bar in Mansfield by MIKE. ROMEO, and in the
presence of MOLLICA, ROMEO dénouriced MOLLICA as a "Tar"
and asked informant to forgive him:...After the meeting. ROMEO-
told the informant that he could’ go to. ANTHONY..MILANO in
Cleveland and tell him that. everything: was all straightened out.
Informant then went to: D'AGOSTINO,:, not wanting: to bother
MILANO with such small details, and gave him the information, and
D'AGOSTINO.. told him he would see that MILANO was erence
He stated he had no further. troubles with MOLLICA .

This case is béing placed ina pending. inactive.

status since there are no immediate leads needing attention and
the information collected in this investigation is based on

coseeeeis seiseeee
COVER PAGE

DocId:32305079 Page 9
