# docid-32304590

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10286-10220

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-110055-1X

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, SJ

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 05/07/1962

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

ELC, ASSOC, ACA, GUERRILA ACT, MIL, POLIT, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM, S/S

v9.1

DooId: 32304590

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

PP-39 (Fey: 12-13-56)

FBI I

Transmit the following in

Date:

PLAY Tryin text or code)

5/4/62

Via -AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

- GIA HAS NO COC

had of Mailing)

DECLAS

MATION

5-15 62

DIRECTOR, FBIN AS DUALIENT. K 9-22-97

place: 0n 97-41133 (mAR

SLO|KSR

SAC

SAY JUAN (205-ton)° 272)

105-83676 Bengarin)

іссан

LIANZA

Revolutionary. Anti-Conmunist Mlit

REVOLUCIONARIA MILITAR ANTI-COMUNISTA

Alliance)

IS - CUBA PETERCiTO LIBFRTADOR DE CUBA

Re: San Juan airtel to Bureau, 4/20/62, captioned -

"RAMON M. BARQUIN LOPEZ, aka Colonel Ramon Barquin; IS-CUBA"

.

San Juan

radiogram to Bureau, 4/24/62, captioned

"ROBERTO BERNARDO ROCA ROSITIO, aka; PSI-CUBA."

WFO letter to Bureau, 4/27/62, captioned

"ETERCITO LIBERTADOR DE CUBA (Liberation Army of Cuba);

IS - Cuba."

Enclosed herewith to the Bureau are 11 copies of a

letterhead memorandum dated and captioned as above.

The letterhead)

memorandum 1s classified CONFIDENIIAL

because the unauthorized disclosure of information furnished by

Bureau (Ene. 11) (RM)

11=105-95

103 94003

105-83676)

57776-45-1100557

Miami (Enc. 1)

(InfO) (RM)

RECIO

Tampa (Enc.

Dampa (Enc. 1),

1) (Inio)

(RM)

(Info) (RM)

- WEO (Enc.

(1 - 105-4736)

GIE 20

TaJ 110227-

5 -

San Juan

105-4966)

CaT/OSI/ACSI'

11 MAY 10 1962

105-5955

109-44)

134-597A)

AND COPY OR BYL FINA

RJB: 2C

(15)

50M

7 19

Special Agent in Charge

i ALL INFORMASDO CONTAINED

19i HERCICE UNCLASSIFIED

Per BY SPGBINGEL

SP8MAC/EHJFK

DocId: 32304590

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SJ 105-New

SJ T-l could reasonably result in his identification and there

fore compromise his future effectiveness.

INFORMANT:

SJ. T-I IS PSI (UD) ROBERTO BERNARDO ROCA ROSILLO,

a youthful Cuban exile residing in Puerto Rico and formerly:

an officer in the Castro Rebel Army and who is presently an

officer in the MOVINIENTO RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO (Revolution=

ary Recuperation Movement) (MRR) , Puarto Rico Section.

It would appear from a review of the attached

Information furnished by SJ I-l

that the operation of HUBERT

MATOS men in Florida is possibly connected with the activities

of the "EJERCITO LIBERTADOR DE CUBA" (Liberation Army of Cuba) ,

referred to in WFO letters dated 3/29 and 4/27/62 under that

caption.

Possibly, instead of DI. FELIPEZ PAZOS ROQUE, ERNESTO

BETANCOURT of the Pan American Union, 1s the Washington contact

man of the ARMA•

The letterhead

is being submitted under

the caption

ALIANZA REVOLUCIONARIA MILITAR ANTI-COMUNISTA (ARMA), as this

Spanish caption appears on the military personnel forms being

used by It. MACEO in Puerto RiCO. SJ I-I stated that MACEO

brought these printed forms from Miami, Florida.

INS files at Santurse, Puerto Rico, contain no

reference or a 1962 alien registration card on MANUEL NIETO,

a former Lieutenant of HUBERT MATOS, who is mentioned in the

attached letterhead memorandum.

Local dissemination of the letterhead memorandum is

being made to INTC, OSI, ONI, and INS.

REVIEWED BY LEWJFK TASK FORCE

ON

9/5/97 cal

RELSASE IN FULL

RELEAS. IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

2

DocId: 32304590 Page 3

---

## Page 4

UNITED

n Reply, Please Refer t

rile No

CONFEDENHIAL

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Post Office Box 4312

San Juan 21, Puerto Rico

May 7, 1962

DE

обв турта

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINCE

ON

12st

DATE 4-1L-44 BX SPE MACIEN

ALZANZA REVOLUCIONARIA MILITAR ANTI-COMUNISTA

(Revolutionary Anti-Communist Military Alliance)

(ARMA)

INTERNAL SECURITY -CUBA

on April 24, 1962 Sj I-1, a youthful Cuban exile

leader in Puerto Rico

and a former officer in FIDEL CASTRO's

rebel army, advised that he had been contacted the previous

day by a friend and a former member of

CASTRO's rebel army

with whom he had fought in the "sierra" against the BATISTA

Government and who subsequently became a Lieutenant in the

rebel once of HUBERl MATos, operating in Oriente Province,

cuba, prior to FIDEL CASTRO's assumption of power on January I,

1959.

This individual is Lieutenant MACEO, a negro, who along

with Captain ALAMO, another former HUBERI MATOS officer,

escaped with some other 13 individuals from La Cabana Prison

In Havana In early, 1961.

All of the 15 individuals who

escaped at this time, according to Si T-1, were members of

HUBERT MATOS army.

HUBERT MATOS is a former

rebel leader

associated with

FIDEL CASIRO in Joint military action

against the BATISTA

Government prior to January, 1959. MATOS was suboaquently

imprisoned by FIDEL CASTRO and now is confined on the Isla:

of Pines, Cuba.-

It. MACEO told SJ I-l that he needed his assistance

in identifying and contacting useful Cuban exiles of

reliable reputation who are willing and ready to fight against

the CASTRO Government inside Cuba in the near future. MACEO

stated that he was particuarly interested in contacting former

members of the Cuban-rebel army now residing in puerto Rico.

CONT IDENTIAE

105-110055-14

ENCLOSURE

XEROX

1962

l0s4

DocId: 32304590 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

RE: ARMA

SJ T-I stated that he, as an official of the MOVIMIENIO

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (Revolutionary ecuperation Movement)

(Ditz) In puerto Rico, has in the recent past assenuled a listing

of some 475 youthful

Cuban exales presently living in fuerto Rico,

who had indicated to him that they are ready to fight in any

manner, at any time, for the liberation of cuba. His

list

contains the names of some 40 to 60 former members of the cuban

rebel army.

SJ T-1 advised It. MACEOthat he had to know more

about Maceo's plan belore he could turn over any list of names

to him and, primarily, he had to be personally satisfied that the

movement by MACEO's group was just not another Cuban exiles'

dream but in reality a true military movement with no political

aoked 100°

connection and a movement backed 100 per cent by the U. S.

Government.

Su T-I statea to It. MACEO that he feels personally

responsible in

Puerto Rico to

the military use of the men who

have volunteered their services to the MRR and he is not going

to let them enter into any military action inside Cuba which

has no chance of success from the very beginning; that 1s, a

military action without modern war equipment and supplies

which could only be furnished by the U. S. Government.

MACEO stated that he was not at liberty to disclose

what backing his group had but indicated that the military

plans of his organization called for the use of American

M14 rifles and Belgium "FAI" guns.

SJ T-l stated that MACEO's

reference to the Ml4 rifles indicated to him that the U. s.

Government might be backing MACEO's group as such guns are

not avallable to the general public.

MACEO Indicated a preference to the use of the Belgium

"FAL" guns as these are the same type of equipment presently

being used by CASTRO's forces, and if this group could capture

some

Cuban arms and ammunitions they would be familiar with

the "FAL" equipment and could use any captured ammunition.

MACEO indicated that his group is becoming active

In Tampa, Miami, New York City, and Puerto Rico. The Tampa

• 2

-GONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32304590 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CONFIDEN

ITAL

RE: ARMA

MACEO stated that his group has political Cuban exile

contacts working for them in Washington, D. C.; however, no

names have been mentioned by MACEO.

SJ I-l surmises that Dr. FELIPE, PAZOS ROQUE, former

Director of the National Bank of Cuba, and presently with the

Alliance of Progress in Washington, D. C., is the contact man Cuba

in Washington.

Whomever this unidentified Cuban exile official might

be in Washington, he is being asisted by several other Cubans

who are contacting representatives of other Latin American

governments in Washington, arranging for military backing and

training sites.

MACEO has indicated to SJ I-l that there would

be no training

sites in either the United States or puerto Rico.

MACEO advised that It. NIEl'O and he were going to visit

1962.

However, SJ I-I subsequently advised on May 1,

MACEO and NIETO had not gone to Mayaguez the previous Saturday

as planned.

on May 2, 1962 SJ I-I stated that MACEO and he had

gone to Mayaguez late May 1, 1962, but upon arriving at BARQUIN's

residence they were informed by one of his assistants at the

Caribbean Military Academy that Colonel BARQUIN had left about

four days previously for Peru.

Reportedly, BARQUIN then plans

to travel to Venezuela, then to Nicaragua, and back to Puerto

RiCO.

His contacts in

the aforementioned countries are unknown

to SJ T-l as well as his planned date of return.

MACEO plans to return to Miami, Florida, May 3, 1962.

MACEO has indicated to SJ T-l that he would be in Miami only

a few days then was proceeding to some undisclosed training

camp outside the Untted states v

SI. I-I S

tated that he has referred It. MACEO

CO HIGINIO NINO DIAZ Of the MRR In Miami, to obtain his

permission to receive the complete list the MRR has compled

of the cubans ready to fight for the liberation of their country.

4

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32304590 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

RE: ARMA

SJ T-I advised on May 2, 1962 that he has decided

to furnish MACEO with the names of some 40 ex-rebel fighers,

now living in puerto Rico. However, source stated he first

has to contact these 40 same individuals to determine if they

are interested in Joining up with MACEO's group.

MACEO furnished SJ T-1 blank personnel data forms

to be filled out by those interested in Joining his group.

These forms bear the caption "ALIANZA RÉVOLUCIONARIA MILITAR

ANTI-COMUNISTA" (ARMA), which SJ I-I assumes is the name of

MACEO's group, although MACEO has never specifically identified

his organization by name.

so I staved that It. SAM ana Capuain ALAMO, mentioned

previously, were in the san Juan area in late March, 1902.

While here

they stayed with It. NIETO. SJ I-l has heard that

they were in contact with Colonel BARQUIN, at Mayaguez, Puerto

RiCO.

They also visited La Fortaleza, the Governor's Office

in puerto Rico, but the source did not know whether they had

an interview with Governor LUIS MUNOZ MARIN.

On April 23, 1962 Colonel RAMON M. BARQUIN LOPEZ

advised that he is presently operating the Caribbean Military

Academy near Mayaguez, Puerto Rico.

He noted that this is

a private school for

boys from school grades 4th to 1lth.

Colonel BARQUIN noted this school is situated on some 35

acres of land on the site of the former Hotel Rosario, and

handles a maximum of 150 students.

Colonel BARQUIN stated that recently newspaper accounts

appearing in stateside papers allege that he has recently been

to south America.

BARQUIN noted that this is not true and

the only place, outside of Puerto Rico, that he has visited in

recent months has been Florida.

He made a two-day business

trip

to Miami, Florida in April, 1962, where he met some Cuban

exile friends, particularly IGNACIO/MENDOZA and JOSE MANUEL

*ILIAN.

Naturally, the Colonel stated their conversation

centered about Cuban matters and the hopes of freeing Cuba

of the CASTRO government.

BARQUIN stated that he had discussed

his personal opinion as

to how the Cuban exiles should go

about the task of liberating Cuba and the Cuban people.

His general plans are as follows:

5

GONFIDENPIAL

Flies

DocId: 32304590

Page 7

---

