FD-36 (Rev. 10-29-63) ~

'
‘ |
. C } .
Qe need H
FBI
oe |
eee t
i
Transmit the following in |
; (Type in plain text or code) 1
AIRTEL AIR MAIL - REGISTERED H
(Priority) i
paagasnyepeaslngengnet na subgett sougetg- uganda taysutnad nq uhqntt seagensfugnsdfnysuspatfaqsebqutesauqesnyseeas/sngeehpadsaagenyutezanqesnrsotsstrenqtoneessey f SGasayauqaes snqsuenedt ae
TO: Director, FBI
FROM: SAC, Los Angeles (92-1112) S
RE: LA COSA NOSTRA
ANTI-RACKETEERING -
CONSPIRACY Oh

Ee)

Re Los Angeles radiogram to Bureau and New York
dated 1/13/65.

On 1/13/65 LA 4448-c-TE furnished the following
information:

On the night of 1/12/65 informant was visiting
with NICK LICATA, “Under-Boss" of the Los Angeles "Brugad"
of La Cosa Nostra.

Part of their discussion related to the intensified
investigation by local, and in particular, Federal investigative
agencies into the activities of La Cosa Nostra and its J
leaders. In this connection, LICATA told informant, “Our 7

nf

Thing will never be destroyed". He expressed confidence i

the al ity of the organization to resist infiltration and LAL]

discussed certain reprisals taken against "members" and
eriemies’in past years.

Bureau (REGISTERED )

- San Diego (Encl. 8)
Chicago (Encl. 4) (REGISTERED )

- San Francisco (Enc.10)

2
2
2 g-Cleveland (Encl. 4) (REGISTERED) (REGISTERED )
2 allas (Encl. 6) (REGISTERED 2 - Seattle (Encl. 4) (RM)
2 r (Encl. 4) (REGISTERED 2 - Los Angeles i
2 Detroit (Encl. 4) (REGISTERED) VJ
2 - Kansas City (Encl. 4)(REGISTEH Jo NEY/sef t
2 - Las Vegas (Encl. 4)(REGISTERED (35)
2 - New York (Encl,...24) (REGISTERED 7 G v4) SY
2 - Phoenix (Encl. #1) (REGISTERED) ae
& 2 - Portland (Encl. 4)(REGISTRRED) | 74°."
(2 - Pittsburgh,.. < ae 4) (REGISTERED
& 2 - Selt Lake City :(Encl. 4)(REGISTERED
fa
Spoylved: Sent

Agent in Charge

129908

Docld:32576377 Page 1



LA 92-1112

LICATA then told informant that in addition to
the larger better-known "Brugads" of the East and Mid-West,
(New York and Chicago in particular), that the "organization"

had smaller "Brugads" -- about whom little was Known or
discussed -- located at various places throughout the
country. ‘

As an illustration, LICATAmentioned "our group"
in San Francisco and "our group"in San Jose, California.
He then identified the "Boss" of the San Francisco group as
JAMES LANZA and ‘the "Boss" of the San Jose group as JOB
CERRITO. LICATA aiso spoke of another such group as “our
group" in Texas. He did not elaborate further, but the
inference drawn by informant was that other such small
groups were located elsewhere, and their existence was not
a matter of general knowledge to all "members" of other
"Brugads".

In connection with the San Francisco and San Jose
groups, informant advised that he had little contact with
these groups, but had always presumed that they were part of
one "Brugad" with the other group operating as a "Caporegima"
under one "Boss" whom informant had thought was JOSEPH CERRITO.
He noted that this might still be the case and LICATA was
actually identifying the-man in charge "on the spot" --
as JOSEPH ADAMO might be referred to as the "Boss" of the
San Diego group, although he is actually a "Capo" under the
Los Angeles "Boss".

LICATA then referred again to the "Commissione"
as the ruling authority of the "organization"and New York
City as its "headquarters". He pointed out that since the
publicity of the Apalachin Meeting, that such large
meetings no longer occur and leaders of these smaller
groups now, generally, do not have direct contact with
the "Coumissione".

In this connection, he mentioned that FRANK DESIMONE
"Boss" of the Los Angeles "Brugad" represented the smaller
Western "Brugads" before the "Commissione" on those
occasions when a Western U. S. representative was necessary.
After such meetings, according to LICATA, it was the
vesponsibility of DESIMONE to relay the instructions of the
“Commissione" to the "Bosses" of other Western "Brugads".

-2-

Docld:32576377 Page 2


LA 92-1112

LICATA did not further identify such groups.
He did mention that DESIMONE had numerous expenses in connection
with these trips. He also mentioned that DESIMONE had to go
"out east" at least a half dozen times last year and after
such trips he had to relay instructions to certain other
"Bosses". Again, LICATA did not further identify such
contacts except to mention that DESIMONE had among other
contacts, relayed some "Commissione" instructions to "the
Boss in Texas", on at least one occasion last year (This
may possibly be JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO of the Dallas,
Texas area, known at least on occasion in the past, to have been
in contact with the Los Angeles "Brugad".)

LICATA then told informant in strict confidence --
requesting informant not to discuss this with any other
"member" of the "Brugad" -- that DESIMONE had to be in
New York on 1/25/65 to attend a meeting of the "Commissione".

LICATA did not state that he knew the purpose of
this meeting, but speculated that it possibly would relate
to the appointment of a new "Boss" for the JOE BONANNO
"Brugada" and, perhaps, re-recognition of this "Brugad"
by all the other "Brugads" in La Cosa Nostra. He did
indicate, however, that after this meeting, it would again
be necessary for DESIMONE to contact other "Bosses" to
relay "Commissione" instructions.

For the information of the-listed offices,
FRANK -DESIMONE, FBI # 770 726C, an attorney, succeeded
the late JACK DRAGNA (deceased in 1956) as "Boss" of the
Los Angeles "Brugad" of La Cosa Nostra. DESIMONE was an
attendee at the Apalachin Meeting in November, 1957.

For a number of months, DESIMONE has not resided
in the Los Angeles drea and his whereabouts are known only to
his very closest associates. DESIMONE restricts direct contact
between himself and "members" of the Los Angeles "Brugada" to
matters of special urgency only. The only individual known
to have regular contact with him is "Under-Boss" NICOLO
LICATA. It is LIVATA who relays the instructions and orders
of DESIMONE to the individual "members" of the "Brugad"”.
LICATA has not confided to other "members" as to the

-3-

5 ASEESSESEESEASESESHassSESEsEODSEEE

Docld:32576377 Page 3


LA 92-1112

whereabouts of DESIMONE or where they meet.

Recent investigation has determined that DESIMONE
is presently residing at 517 Tyron Street, El Cajon,

California.

name of an associate, PETE MONTANA.
Kept his residence here a well-guarded secret.

This home and all utilities are listed in the

DESIMONE, has apparently
This

information has been handled in a most discreet manner
by the San Diego and Los Angeles Offices.

Following is a description of DESIMONE:

Name
Sex
Race
Nationality
Date of birth
Place of birth
Height

7 Weight
Hair
Eyes
Marital status
FBI #
Automobile

Occupation
Characteristics

Residence

RECOMMENDATION

FRANK DESIMONE

Male

White

American

7/17/09

Pueblo, Colorado

Sty"

190 pounds

Brown

Brown ~

Single

770 726 0

1960 White Cadillac,

Coupe De Ville, California
license QXE 608

Attorney

Wears thick lensed dark glasses;
reportedly blind or nearly blind
in right eye.

7838 Adoree, Downey, California

Reference is made to information outlined
above indicating that DESIMONE represents other "Brugads"
in the Westem United States at certain "Commissione
meetings and that he then relays instructions to other

"Busses".

Reference is also made to certain remarks made

by{NICK LICATA to informant (supra) indicating the existence

fea fues

Docld:32576377 Page 4

