# docid-32306100

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/20/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10289-10230

HQ

92-6054-2220

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 12/19/1967

'PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS:

LCN, MISTRELLA, FRANK, ASSOC, ARREST, OC, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

V9.1

DocId: 32306100

Page 1

33

---

## Page 2

18

WA - 7-

1258PM URGENT 12-19-67 PAS

TO DIRECTOR 92-6054

FROM

NEW YORK 92-2300 1P

VIA TELETYPE

DEC 1 9 1967

ENCIPHERED

BAMA.

LCN- CONSPIRACY, AR

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Deloach

Mr. No

Mr.

Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. Felt

Be Gale.

Mr. Rosen-

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel.

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room..

Miss Holmes...

Miss Gandy..

INFORMANIS OF THE NYO ADVISED JACK COUNNE (FORMER

NY FOUR SIX ONE EIGHT-PC>, FRANK MISTRELLA AND NUNZIO

RUSSO (NY NINETY TWO THREE ZERO EIGHT ONE) WERE OPERATING

A BLACK JACK GAME AT ONE FIVE FIVE EAST FIFTHIETH

STREET, NYC, APARIMENT TWELVE-E. INFORMANIS KNEW OF NO

INTERSTATE OF ASPECT. TO THIS GAME• INFORMATION FUR-

NISHED TO INSPECTOR ED DONNELLY, NYCPD•

INSPECTOR DONNELLY ADVISED ON TWELVE NINETEEN

SIXTY SEVEN THAT BASED ON ABOVE INFORMATION FRANK MISTRELLA

AND ANOTHER INDIVIDUAL WERE ARRESTED FOR LOITERING

3

IN FRONT OF THE ABOVE BUILDING ON TWELVE FIFTEEN SIXTY

SEVEN. ON TWELVE SIXTEEN SIXTY SEVEN, MISTRELLA AND.

FOURTEEN OTHERS WERE ARRESTED FOR GAMBLING AT THE ABOVE

ADDRESS• HE STATED THIS GAME WAS DOING TWENTY THOUSAND

DOLLARS A WEEK BUSINESS.

REC- 71

91

6054-2220

INSPECTOR DONNELLY ADVISED HE WOULD MAKE AVAILABLE:

TO THE NYO THE IDENTITIES OF THE INDIVIDUALS ARRESTED:

AT THE GAME. HE EXPRESSED HIS APPRECIATION FOR: THE

18 DEC 27 1967 1

COOPERATION OF THE NYO IN THIS MATTER.

END

ROX.

MK P

DEGLE

FBI WASHEDOAN 4 19GEMR. DELOACH FOR THE DIRECTOR

DocId: 32306100 Page 2

---

