JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/28/201

Ageney Information
AGENCY: FBI i :
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10213-10436
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 62-9-39-58
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, PG
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 06/06/1958
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS
SMO, REL, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATEOF LASTREVIEW: 05/19/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

v9.1
Docld:32294660 Page 1


FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

¢

FBI

Date: 6/6/58

a (Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

iP TEL oe

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: SAC, PITTSBURGH. (92-246)
ne: 7 Top NOODLUM PROGRAM.

ARG

R
cuvoMremann PAL

TEEMER observed in Chester, W. Va., by SA BRONI S. MACYS- on
6/5/58. PG 509-C,“on same date, informed that. the "go ahead"
to resopen Club 30 has been received.
refurbished and a staff hired. TEEMER,

g,.£Or

the MANNARINOs, i: ta staf

as“ aré available Opening will be immediate future.
: : 5

SAM_AND KELLY MANNARINO ee

PCL MIKE ZERVOS advised on 6/3/58 that because of recent newspaper
publicity re gambling at the Triangle Billiard gambling casino,
New Kensington, Pa., same was.shut down completely as of 5/31/58.

(u- ees ) me a
| 1- 92-2892, TEEMER) j me PO men
y= Mani Getic) Cmte) sgn OL Go BILET

1- 92-222, TEEMER) . .
l- 92-222A,.Club Bt :
l- 92-226, LA ROCCA

1- 92-228, SAM MANNARINO)
1- 92-236, KELLY MANNARINO)
1- 137-31) . -. :

ele oy

ms AIRTEL
jo

py» Approved: Sent M Per

70 JUL 3 igsgee Agent in Charge

{
'
|
{

Docld:32294660 Page 2


FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56) 7

a FBI

Date:

Transmit the following in
(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

t
'
1
|
1
1
1
1

PG 92-2h6

PG 509-C advised on 6/5/58 that the Barbout game run at Triangle
Billiards will resume in about a week but the craps game is to be
moved to a new location, not yet selected. n

SAM MANNARINO, who recently suffered serious stroke and was
reportedly near death, was reported by Mercy Hospital, Pittsburgh,
where confined, on 6/4/58 to be making a satisfactory recovery.

aa

aden I ERE
Discussion has been had with INS, Pittsburgh, as to possibility
their calling an immediate hearing on LA ROCCA's petition for
eitizenship, thus forcing him to appear and presenting {

opportunity for USM to serve outstanding subpoena, which service
would provide basis for INS to move for postponement or rejection
of the petition.

Approved: Sent M Per
Special Agent in Charge

Docld:32294660 Page 3
