# docid-32307556

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10292-10259

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-505

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/09/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, CNI, GAMBLING, ASSOC, RES

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

02/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32307556

Page 1

441.

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

NOV 9 1968

.!:*

vipe

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Congatt,

Evans.!.

r. Malone

Vie. Rosen-

Mr. Sullivat

Vr. Tavel_

Mr. Trotter_

Tele. Room

. Mr. Ingram.

Miss Gandy-

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREI: IS UNULASSIFIED

DATE 4-20-34 BYSeses/coL

DE

FERREDE

411-09-51

8-46 PM SM

DIRECTOR, FBI 192-3171/

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192 RACKETERRING

SAMUEL M:

TROOST,

ADVISED

YESTERDAY, THAT SAM GIANCANA HAS DELEGATED CHARLES QUOTES CHUCK "UNQUOTE

NICOLETTI AS HIS PERSONAL EMISSARY OF CICERO, ILLINOIS, AND IN THAT

CAPACITY CONTROLS ALL GAMBLING ACTIVITY IN THAT AREA. DIRECTLY UNDER

NICOLETTI IS FRANK SHARKEY EULO AND JOSEPH QUOTE "PEPE"UNQUOTE GIANCANA,

BROTHER OF SUBJECT. INFORMANT ADVISED THAT CICERO IS CLOSED AS TO THE

QUOTE "BIG ACTION UNQUOTE, HOWEVER, THERE ARE FOUR OR FIVE PLACES IN

CICERO THAT ARE OPERATING, AMONG THEM BEING THE MGM LOUNGE, OPERATED

BY. NICK KOKENES. JOSEPH QUOTE FIFKE UNQUOTE CORNGOLD IS NOW LIVING

IN PHOENIX, ARIZONA, AND HAS A DIRECT LINE FROM HIS ARIZONA RESIDENCE

TO FIFTY NINE FORTY ONE ROOSEVELT ROAD, CICERO, SO THAT HE CAN OBTALA

IMMEDIATELY THE RESULTS OF THE BETTING LINE AND RESULTS OF SPORTING

INTERSTATE GAMSTINFIES

EVENTS.

THIS SITUATION

REUNG FOLLOWED FOR POSSIBLE VIOLATION OF TGA

THE PART OF CORNGOLD,: KNOWN LIEUTENANT OF GIANCANA. ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

END AND ACK PLS

sel

REG- 46

92-3171-505

950 PM OK FBI WA RAC HOLDING

Tò NOV 29.1961

DocId: 32307556 Page 2

---

