# docid-32301562

## Page 1

AGENCY

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10278-10397

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-78

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

• PAGES:

PAGES: 12/2/1963

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, ACA, MEMBER, AIRPLANE, RAID, CUBA

CLASSICATION: SATER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS: IC; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC NOTE, MEMO, LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32301562 Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

5011381-10-87)

•Domestic Intelligénco Division

INFORMATIVE NOTE-

Daiò -12-23= 63

Attached deals with plannec

anti-Castro bombing raid over

Cuba to be carried out from

Bimini Bahama Islands.

Plane

to be used previously located

at Fort Lauderdale Florida

and final practice flight

was to have been made 12-20-63.

Attached teletype indicates

due to motor trouble arrange-

ments being made for new plane

to make the raid which head of

this anti-Castro group desires

be carried out Xmas day.

Information in attached bein

furnished orally to State, CIA,

DocId: 32301562

Page 2

---

## Page 3

5-113 (1-10-61)

Domestic Intelligence Division

INFORMATIVE NOTE

Daio_12-23-63 =

Attached deal's with planned

anti-Castro bombing raid over

Cuba to be carried out from

Bimini Danama Islands. Plane

to be used previously located

at Fort Lauderdale Florida

and final practice flight

was to have been made 12-20-63.

Attached teletype indicates

due to motor trouble arrange-

ments being made for new plane

to make the raid which head of

this anti-Castro group desires

be carried out Xmas day.

Information in attached being

DocId: 32301562

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

V. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

DEC 22 196.

"ETYPE

SECRET

Lir. Nohr --

Ит. Саврег

Mr. Callahi

Mr.

5 Mr.

1 Mr.

* Mr.

Mr. Tav

Mr. PURIT

URGENT

TO

12-22-63

11-2,8

DIRECTOR /97-44747

FROM

SAC, MIAMI / 105-2855/

Declassify on: OADR 7/85\:

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

PAREN (MIRR) END PAREN IS DASH CUBA, NM.

INTERNAL SECURITY-GUER ;NEUTRALITY (/1ATTERI

REMM TEL DECEMBER TWENTY SIXTYTHREE TO BUREAU.

ON DECEMBER TWENTY ONE AVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ / PROTECT/

ADVISED THAT HE WENT TO BROWARD INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT EVE OF

DECEMBER, TWENTY, SIXTYTHREE TO TAKE NIGHT PRACTICE FLIGHT IN

N-2624-8

AERO COMMANDER, A DASH TWO SIX THO LOUR DASH-B BUT WAS ADVISED

BY OWNER, CHARLES BUSH THAT ONE MOTOR OF PLANE HAD EUOTE BURNED

E. THIS CONDITION WAS VERIFIED BY ALPIZAR. BUSH

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

TOLD ALPIZAR HE WOULD MAKE ANOTHER PLANE AVAILABLE TO HIM.

• SHOWN

ON DECEMBER TWENTY TWO ALPIZAR ADVISED THAT ORLANDO BOSCH

AVILA, HEAD OF MIRR TOLD HIM OF MORNING OF DECEMBER TWENTY TWO THAT

EXCEPT WHE

BOSCH WANTS THE BOMBING RAID AT NUEVITAS, CUBA TO TAKE PLACE

CHRISTMAS DAY, DECEMBER TWENTY FIVE, SIXTYTHREE, AS OPPOSITION

VIGLIANCE WILL BE AT A MINIMUM.

END PAGE ONE.

1EX-:15)

Ein Muty go, C6 yearly 42=4474-74

too: 5707718419)

15 JANS

mender

!

SECRET

DocId: 32301562 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Belmo

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. 8, DEPARTMENT OF METICE

COMMUNICATIONS

111

DEC 22

Mr. Mohr.:

SECRET

Mar. Casper

Mr. Callaher

Mr.

MT.

ТУРЕ

Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

URGENT

12-22-63

11

iir. T'ave

PM

EST

Mr. Radier

TO

DIRECTOR /97-44747

21819

БралАс є

FROM

Classlied by 2266T9/6eL

He Gald

SAC, MIAMI: /105-28551

Declassify on: OADR9/4/551

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

AREN (MIRR) ENA PAREN 1S DASH CUBAURITY.

NIZENAL SACURITY-CURA. ¿NEUTRALITY (A9TTER

REMM TEL DECEMBER TWENTY SIXTYTHREE TO BUREAU.

ON DECEMBER TWENTY ONE

/PROTECT/

ADVISED THAT HE WENT TO

EVE OF

DECEMBET TWENTY, SIXTYTHREE TO TAKE NIGH.

BUT WAS ADVISED

BY

THAT ONE MOTOR OF PLANE HAD -eMETE "BURNED

ATL INFORUATION CONTAINED

- OUT

*E.

THIS CONDITION WAS VERIFIED BY

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

HE WOULD MAKE ANOTHER PLANE AVAILABLE TO HIM. :

EXCEPT WIRRE SHOWN

ON DECEMBER TWENTY TWO

ADVISED THAT ORLANDO BOSCA

AVILA, HEAD OF MIRR TOLDE

OF MORNING OF DECEMBER TWENTY TWO THAT

#BOSCH WANTS. THE BOMBING RAID AT

CUBA TO TAKE PLACE

HRISTMAS DAY, DECEMBER TWENTY FIVE, SIXTYTHREE, AS OPPOSITION

VIGLIANCE WILL BE AT A MINIMUM.

END PAGE: ONE,

' EX-115)

92=447438

1125%8

41. 1964

SECRET

FOREIGN

DocId: 32301562 Page

---

## Page 6

ALL INFORMATIUN LUNIALINI

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED:

EXCEET WHENE SHOKN

OTHERV. SE

1ge. Tolsos

FEDERAL BUREAU. OF INVESTICATIOH

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

DEC 2 2 1963

TELETYPE

SECRET

Mir. Belmont

Me. Mohr-

Tar. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Pr. DeLoach

Hr. Evans

ghale

• Mr.

Mr.

Nui

URGENT

12-22-53

11-27

PM

EST

DIRECTOR /97-44741

2/18795 Sp8 MAC/G/Fia Rote

ale Room.

FROM

Classified by SPERTAGCL

igs Folmes.

SAC, MIAMI / 105-2855/

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

PAREN MIRR END PAREN IS DASH CUBA, NM

D. E MADE

REMN TEL DECENBER TUENTY SIXTYTHREE TO BUREAU. WANNALL

ON DECEMBER TWENTY ONE AVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ / PROTECT/

ADVISED THAT HE WENT TO BROWARD INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT EVE OF .

DECEMBER TWENTY, SIXTYTHREE TO TAKE NIGHT PRACTICE FLIGHT IN

AERO COMMANDER, N DASH TWO SIX TWO FOUR DASH B BUT WAS ADVISED

BY OWNER, CHARLES BUSH THAT ONE MOTOR. OF PLANE HAD QUOTE BURNED

OUT UNQUOTE. THIS CONDITION WAS VERIFIED BY ALPIZAR. BUSH

TOLD ALPIZAR HE WOULD MAKE ANOTHER PLANE AVAILABLE TO HIM.

ON DECEMBER TWENTY TWO

. ALPIZAR ADVISED THAT ORLANDO BOSCH

AVILA, HEAD OF MIRR TOLD HIM OF MORNING OF DECEMBER TWENTY TWO THAT

BOSCH WANTS

. THE BOMBING RAID AT NUEVITAS, CUBA TO TAKE PLACE

CHRISTMAS DAY, DECEMBER TWENTY FIVE, SIXTYTHREE, AS OPPOSITION

VIGLIANCE WILL BE AT A MINIMUM.

END PAGE ONE CECS3 0 3J W1.03

INs. cushion, cited bond, yestery

11/2y/63

ole 144610016

12024/65

'SECRET

97-4474-78

DocId: 32301562 Page 6

---

## Page 7

FEDERAL BUREAU GE INVESTIGATION

U. & DEPARIMENT OF JUSTICE,

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

DEC 2 2 1963

TELETYPE

SECREU

Tas. Tolsos

3fx Belmonti:

Mr. Mohr

"AI. Casper.

sIr. Callaken

Mr. Conrad

19r. DeLarch

Evana

G.17

N3г.

URGENT

12-22-63

11-27

PM

'DIRECTOR 197-4474

FROM

SACK. STAMI 1 805-28551

" Modes

Degassituen: OADA E/u/88S

MOVIMIENTO INSURREGIONAL: DE: RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARLP

PAREN MIRR END PAREN IS DASH CURA, MM.

REMM TEL DECEMBER TUENTY SIXTYTHREE TO BUREAU.

' ON DECEMBER-TUENTY ONE

ADVISED THAT HE WENT TOE

Wet work

PROTECTI

EVE OF

DECEMBER TWENTY, SIXTYTHREE TO TAKE NIGHT

BY

ALZ INFORMATION CONTAINET

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCRET WHAKE SHOWS

UTHER!

BUT WAS ADVISED

THAT_ONE MOTOR OF PLANE HAD QUOTE BURNED

OUT UNQUOTE. THIS CONDITION WAS VERIFIED BY

HE WOULD MAXE ANOTHER PLANE AVAILABLE TO HIM.

ON DECEMBER TWENTY TWO

ADVISED THAT ORLANDO BOSCH

AVILA, HEAD OF MIRR TOLDE

OF MORNING OF DECEMBER TWENTY TWO THAT

BOSCH WANTS THE BOMBING RAID AT

CUBA TO TAKE PLACE

CHRISTMAS DAY, DECEMBER TWENTY FIVE, SIXTITHREE, AS OPPOSITION

VIGLIANCE WILL BE AT A MINIMUM.

END PAGE ONE DOE? 219.03

FOREIGN

А

12/70/63

IS1 16, 1f

mn. mef

'SECRET'

97-4474-78

DocId: 32301562 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

PAGE TWO

ALPIZAR

ALSO SPOKE TO CHAIRIE

BUSH ON MORNING OF DECEMBER

TWENTY TWO AND BUSH SAID HE WOULD SUBSTITUTE A TWO MOTOR PIPER

AZTEC PLANE FOR THE AERO COMMANDER. ALPIZAR IS SCHEDULED INSPECT

AND PERHAPS TEST FLY THE PIPER AZTEC AT BROWARD INTERNATIONAL ON

MORNING DECEMBER TWENTY THREE AT WHICH TIME HE WILL OBTAIN EXACT

IDENTITY OF PLANE.

US CUSTOMS AND US COAST GUARD NOTIFIED ABOVE FACTS.

MIAMI ALSO ADVISING ALL OTHER INTERESTED AGENCIES MIAMI AND

SUBMIT LHM SUITABLE FOR DISSEMINATION AFTER IDENTITY OF PLANE IS

ESTABLISHED. MIAMI WILL KEEP BUREAU ADVISED ALL PERTINENT

DEVELOPMENTS.

END AND ACK PLS

WA 11-34 PM OK. FBI WA JS

TU DiS

423

5TG 50

. 1:5.9

CC: Sullivan

.,.7

SECRET: -

DocId: 32301562 Page B

---

## Page 9

370:12

SECRETI

PAGE TWO

ALPIZAR ALSO SPOKE TO CHARLES BUSH ON MORNING OF DECEMBER

TWENTY TWO AND BUSH SAID HE WOULD SUBSTITUTE A TWO MOTOR PIPER

AZTEC PLANE FOR THE AERO COMMANDER. ALPIZAR IS SCHEDULED INSPECT

AND PERHAPS TEST FLY THE PIPER AZTEC AT BROWARD INTERNATIONAL ON

MORNING DECEMBER TWENTY THREE AT WHICH TIME HE WILL OBTAIN EXACT

IDENTITY, OF PLANE.

US CUSTOMS AND US COAST GUARD NOTIFIED ABOVE FACTS.

MIAMI ALSO ADVISING ALL OTHER INTERESTED AGENCIES MIAMI AND

SUBMIT LEM SUITABLE FOR DISSEMINATION AFTER IDENTITY OF PLANE IS

ESTABLISHED. MIAMI WILL KEEP BUREAU ADVISED ALL PERTINENT

DEVELOPMENTS.

END AND ACK PLS

WA 11-34 PM OK FBI WA JS

TU DIS

-4:3,00.

ORIGINAL: BEAMONT

SECRET

DocId: 32301562 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRETI

139012

1 - Liaison

1 - Mr. Nasca

(NI) 97-4474

December 24, 1963

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSITIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWE SE

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO

Previous information has indicated that the

captioned cho-bastro organizacion le planning to carry

ous & bombing raid over cuba from simint in the bahand

Islands. The airplane scheduled to be used in the raid,

an Aero Commander, Number N2624B, was located at the

Broward International Airport, Fort Lauderdale, Plorida.

On December 2l, 1963, our source in the matter

who has furnished reltable information in the past learned

that one of the motors of the above-mentioned plane had

burned out and that plans were being made to obtain

another plane:

On December 22, 1963, Orlando Bosch Avila,

head of the captioned organization, stated that he

wanted the bombing raid to take place on Christmas day

as the vigilance of the opposition would be at a

minimun at that time.

Charles Bush, ouner of the above-mentioned

Aero Commander airplane, stated on December 22, 1963,

that he would substitute a two-motor Piper Aateo airplane

for the Aero Commander.

NOTE:

Original to State, copies to CIA, Army, Navy,

Air Force, DIA, Customs, INS, PAA,.

Coast Guard,

Yeagley.

Coples separately being furnished John Crimins,

coorainator cuban Afrairs.

Department of State,

Courter Service and stott. (s)

Classified by SP6 BJAGGL

21790, 502 /64 (37)

(26)

Declassify on: OADR9/u/85

Tolson

Belmont

Mont:

Cospor

Callalian

Conrad

sLoach

Evens:

Cale

Rosen

Sullivan

Trotter:

Teler Room

Holmes/

Gondyi

SECRED

32

97-4474-78

ENCLOSURE

dor

MAIL ROOM A

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32301562 Page 10

---

