# docid-32424584

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/25/201

AGENCY: ARMY

RECORD NUMBER:

198-10008-10095

RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Let of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 56829 Date:

04-13-2018

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: MULTIPLE

FROM: JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.

TO :

ICCCA REPRESENTATIVES

TITLE:

ICCCA: TRANSMITTAL OF INFORMATION

DATE:

PAGES:

07/29/1963

23

SUBJECTS :

INFORMATION FURNISHED THROUGH DIPLOMATIC

CHANNELS

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS:

Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: REVIEW BY BRITISH GOVERNMENT

COMMENTS :

Califano Papers, Box 5, Folder 6. Memo No. 55 from Joseph Califano with enclosures from the British

Embassy, Havana.

JFKRAVION

Department of the Army EO 13526

*Declassify → Exclude I

• Exempt

• Refer To —

Review Date 19G/S By almo

NO STATE OBJECTION

O DECLASSIFICATION.

Y DIL DATE OL/15%

V9.1

HH 56829

DocId: 32424584

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

Jaky 39. 1963

MEMCAANDUIS NO.

•SENANAL BARLEG. WHEELES BOSP

CAPTAIN BA

* 20MNAST, As. 028 (088)

naded Salaand

Are

BEAR ADMIRAL 1. DENCE, USH

MAJOR COMEBAD J, F. CARPENTAR, ME, 08A8

GAI

Clone D H 140090,

Coke

SOBJECT:

Intontapastmental

Tronomlital et Bad:

& commitoe of Come Al

0120t

«Machod are itemne of losesent feralated

de Cente chonnale:

opartsent

092

CUBA

Signed

Joseph A. dazifano, Jr.

donega As Malitano,

Ja.

Goneral Gentsel

Attararens

7-29-63

cc:

Mr. Califano

Lt Col Haig

ASGE

Mr. Adan Yarmolinsky (OSD) -oh

330770

УМЛА ЭНТ 7О УДАТЗЛОЗЕ

C8 M9 OS A DE JUL

0400749810

ВЯООЭЯ Я МОГЛИ 0Я000

301:70

CONFIDENTIAL

1.

HY 56829 DocId: 32424584 Page 2

---

## Page 3

2018/63

BRITISHI ELOSAGi

HAVANA

Pane 20, 1963

& enclose a eogy

e, msnute by Scott about a

dinner party eiveis by

osllolade ol the Ministry of

Porelen Affotes at which thry lovoloped the theme of

comoxistence with the Unitol Statou and opoke in an

spparently aadinaroed anaor ahich le quite unusual for

tbon,

We do not knom enantly uhat to nake of all shig,

bui it looks as thuuch ns Mliniatsr 10 following u2

Castro's allusionn to hin diolro fun nore nornal

g0dabiene vich tho Uafooil Statos with a deliberate astemt

o convinco us ond chrona na che Jnoricans, buag t0i8 1E

in lact their pollay

Ve ane aleo not suro

Sata into thio ploturo.

Ualiinae. loined Protocol Departnent

shoul a nonth aau.

ne woried wich tiho Notzonal Council 02

culture and editad the ragenine "Puoblos y Caltara®®

hao told un that ho uoo prstcd out if tras job becauso of

hie support for chotrace uni agaimt the sooiallet renllom

It moy be thot Miu issroam at the emenso o2 the

mas2ens and ounog epnarone dalsaorations

chon o gerleotion of hle dlegmactlanont ot Looine bie oid

On the ochor hnns,

idl mns? baive been transferred to

Pootocod Dopezinent mitt

& amadlel briof to.work on tho

Hootern micalons in the hupe Of nocifying.our

anälrootly the Anoricany Mlubrart of Cubeo

The way In

which ho opaales nonid be oonatntont with an attempt to

pescuade us that the dulun covolution is more notionaliet

tuan oomnunlct anổ cen bai reilan uoon to tura anay cron

hoscow waan nubsran aupeozro do mu donger anaisponaablo.

Sone 0ld nonbers of the 20 ui. ruly Movement probably

believe thia quite somdnoly, wvan lf they are aivo in

nuppesing that choy vonld nrar bo ablo to

jump out of the

210r g mouth once they baws boon suallowad.

You wiil notioo 1zoz. parspprpa & of the ininuto that

Cuban off2clals Lave

aaid tant Ihrachcbav"e vioit le llkoly

of Juiy colabrations.

or tan vanloyo ospocteday en caeriro nas in Moason for May

Da and may therefore bo Inzaelymliaueotion ol wishfa

chanking®

I Inogine Nurushuhoy

Ainbell will have nany

othor Aaotorg to coueidew:

aLoy 20 w02ld happen,

& an copying this lettor do Croenhsl1 1n Fashington

and to Barker in Momeone

(Ho So Harchart)

3o K, Slator, Bage, 6.H.0g

Amerásan Dopastnenty

Forelga 0821000

HH 56829

DocId:32424584 Page 3

---

## Page 4

COLFIDNKIAS

onst

algit I was di quest st a email

#anor party givon by SI. Roberto

Kolondon (SunDrector of Protocol) st

the orclois? protocol house in Cubanaoon.

Ho was nupported by Sr. Ivan Congora

(the huad

of the Coordination Section of

Frotcool), Er. Verona

•Bysbt liao

about whom is,

recently written a ninuto,

Se. Neuminio liarola lone of the attacheo

In Protocol Dapartment) •

The other

questo mong Mr Dttor of the Snias Embadgy

1eo do lu Bantide, who 13 in charco os

Coran, Intereste at the French Embnasy,

and hire Pillord of the Canadian Embaosy.

ly roosont dog levens abandards.

the

Manor ma ronarkebly lavish and the

aranophore was relaxed and oven conviviol.

molandon and Varons, who did most of tho

talking on tho cuban oide, made & more

dotornand effort than I have so far

oncoundred unong Cuban officiala, to

continen ue chat cuban colloy io now to

was on de onlatonce with the United

austeno

26

3y bluen lin Kennte

particulas

and had

He 63дQ

2080201320

ho belloned that thig

Melondes

retlooted

Shey

proofiontin

eleation,

move 20ire

Pondinatel.

eindeable crocola

Imho

Very

Molendes

HH 56829

DocId: 32424584 Page 4

---

## Page 5

tension and worlin: los poacodul

co-existence.

047 фn01/n0371x

evening, Vaconn miesed Com dances. 02l

moking

acrcastlo asidos at tho 0s:pone0

Holondon told to

of the Ruosland.

TU 114,

Varoos roanind shot So vauloda

chat poople who ocud note anch coot

vere Nole 0001911

fashioned sia choir ortansto anandardo:

and could got noriod vo nbout abstanet

arte

llo agood enchantomically when

I suggested

that whole tonte lud boon

the other hand,

he keptodned incan 1199

adulation for

Arnotrianta.

Huge prun on

than Cube.

30

For a time nüter Mures de aplit

up late enold groups at noyinto

tables In She Warders

Metor and 2

cone Loil anons nolahlont atsaliabdone

of tho Mnletsy at Sorolga Asiadrad Be

aa1d. thon: thoro and vons. & peone poinge

corone sane go.

ho had woon die econt

Through which

11145G

20g0d

so penetrato the Marletes. Al%

IntZro10Gs Of 1230 port and boon

enoccautully ranited and thore mero not

al2+

Dos the nose part mun distr

PA2

i shor 120ch of July'

No dertou!

etrungt waa bolng sade 40 2ndogtrtnatol

oenair of the otolf oith Normieny

waninion.

• 1 few poopie,

including

Gongorge. had Doon cond

on dadve 001x00g

Duc a0 me nanally pooniblo to avold

thie on the groando that the Mirialzy.

more no busy that thoir peoplo onuts not

be sparad.

The Bano excuse won vasion

for ouch things so voluntary one,

cuteing.

Verona

In reply to a queation;

said that Corone (the hecdio?

the Foot Europcan Departent) was lot

an old communist in the true donner

•But a Long establiohed follow travellda

who had been for many years on enthus

sinatio supporter of song

front organirationa

eapecially thy

Poace Movenonts.

Whea: I gelod abourt

Thu poostion

of Dr, Roa

ho said that

he sane from

is very wealthy bourgodel

Losily and

that his polltload allege

could best de described so apolai li

donocrata

In the past, ho tiad boodl

an epon opponent to commuttan and boil l

ericion pamphlots and orticlea

HH 56829

DocId: 32424584

Page

5

---

## Page 6

HOT

For this conson, tha

old emmaniate had done their beat to

push hits out of the Govorment, but ho

had boori saved bocauce of his personal

Araondohan with Castro.

Muring dinner aloo,

the quostion

or Immonchorlo violt to cuba camup.

Molemlos osle that it would tako placo

vars loon and that the Ministry vore

airandm tuad at work on the preparationa

time dada

coin lão nith they calebration

on che 25th o1 Jaig.

(Po H, Scott)

June 18,2963

COLEX DENT I AL

HH 56829

DocId:32424584

Page 6

---

## Page 7

CONDTDRIURLAL

(7104/63)

3FITISE LABASSY,

HAVARA.

Jude

20, 1963.

I enclose a copy ould minute

by Syatt

recording a conversation mathion I.N.R.4.

offloial fron oriente Province, which you

may find of invares.

20

I on also sending ogles

to Sutherland

In Washington and to JiB.

(201. Scort)

A.D. Parsona, Eage,

Amcrican

M.C.,

Deperiment

FOREICH OF FIOR, 3.1. 1.

CONFIDRETIAD

56829

DocId: 32424584

Page 7

---

## Page 8

00921.06

On Tune 10 Idea ni converansion

What my connor Spontch tenchor,

Tozona Garcia Tilguest

Oriento Provinco for almoot a yoor,

Da Concludiose qualitiod noulc7417747

encinooziand

at ono otare atudlod ne

revolucion he feed in Orionto Frovancor

bat lilo Poom no laken over in 1960%

not 70ar ho soniched thiece co a cac

abondonce

has fort after otripping tho

buildinda and camovine 072 nochinory. and.

foina crudaaoritie

hao also been working cor

Sopria no than.

Howaves s

provincint

adviser (assessor) Cor

Oriento on cotcce

cha cocoa production

A month ano ho kas

2914ohel to

chio emuivalent poat for

pasturos and fodder.

pooha I bolieve Die Careia to heretzensly

0220020: 40

the Governmont,

and nuch of

wat he coyo may bo exacgercied.

not over addicted to hard work

2:

Garcio mainted a gloomy picture

of gricultural productlon in

Orionto

Trovinced In General.

he acid,

there

deo o comploto incle of orconications

pozzontel evero shunted from onc

dopatent to innochory departndnie

ajiahhle anonger thombolves without

proper contral coordiantion;

scencedet

michinery and forbilinor wore oil. in

short oug Lyin

obote form anagero vouc

wont to rollow their orn whin or tho

101zootiven os. the loonl I..R.A.

production deportment rather, than the

rocomonda blond of tho various auctifted

So to folloning are some partloutra

Comerly the yield was 300 60%

1,000 quintala por cobnitorial

now dur

16 5-4090

Ic ons: enoc 6 largo anco was

sommithia mizture of carly and 10bo

with the rooult that the

les co haci do bo hazeston when thie de

10/700 06173 unaDe.

charo nill be

carciby this goor sance, owing

to the

boring

anouded a almost hord has beant

planted:

inter two wonto of volunteer

araline ithe corteo bichod nre baaly

matiod and the sold da Ilkoly to drop

/Tomn to32

56829

DocId: 32424584

Page

8

---

## Page 9

COM

v..

Jonato

Loige aroas have been

clahted

Das much of the coop wao lett tumichod

on rodded through delcyn in colicotion

and distribution. Coveral amit

edinbini

blanto In tho Bryono srea have Duch e7or0d.

down o

A8 91: 1962

volunteor cuttero have

Meras out it

June will not bo cuCticiantly grot don

conting nost proari

new mintine, zon boar

quite extensive it bo ts was donce wishout

expert advioe ör duporvidion

In on unctitable lando Goralskos no

personal caperionce of cubbing aschines

Bus bad boon told thou borg not very

satisinctory

sinco they uprooted much

Garoin 60l6 ma tot the aron of

land under cultivation In Oriento was

now grantor than at hed been befoes tip

revolution. this boing do 10. 00 hard

to undoratand why the drop tn prodoction

chould be so recuter in anovor do zu

queston, he onld ho woo inclined in

Osabelieve rumouro that sericultural

produce was being exnorted sn

mantities;

to thought the gnawer was

we the disortuniention montioned above.

There woo the laole on Cinnnoint lacontive

the Government clained to have bollahed

midalchony

hut, for escaple

nears word bought from ennilnolors at

3 pesos ber quintal and sold in the

supermarketo it a price equal to 15 pesos

per quininl.

Other footond gore the

ens7] rainfall of the nost three douros

the foot that now ano Comesty worked

on the land were now in bio army or

thooo 04111 voranz on sunte catage

told ine it wag by no moano uncommon rod

find choca diold brentod with for biliner

had been given a good drodsing round the

cdsco und tho ront of the fortilizor

dianed in a heaD,

out of oight

in tho

middle of the ciola.

The food situation dround Boyano tac

vorae tian in royata:

had been very, chort and aimited to ono

Min of condended adille per montli for

children wider cozen

itowevery ith

besinning of the rolas die 3h001a

Luprove •

600

Thore are a condiderablo nutbor. od

Ridginn onionltural advidero in Oriente

I rather Dro Concia does not havo mons

direct consoot with them. do ould that

Though bone of Mort Wore Cectalh25

Mo loul bial dooofallots arith conoldorribze

nators

neateultural machinony

MH 56829

DocId: 32424584 Page 9

---

## Page 10

*The Carolo had come to Havana

foy two purpese.

Firstly to report

do his boog

the non in charge ot

ponsibo tind roader production on the

notiont planos

he found that the

appotntment. hod not yet boon made:

Socondly do aliend the ctrot Im non.

MaJornl Production Congress which took

plnco babreomiduno 5 and 0.

Ile

as 0 "terrific 1o% o8 0alk"

inercoood production end neve

slane weich,

WHO SOn 1061 00 2900690/050

Inst 10t

though this cobalogue of ills noy

vorather more coloured I doubt 1f: 1t

could ho entirely vichful itton 48 mon

nad: De. Garcia 1o In a position to

at lendt some of the ficus.

ME havo Ina copion or thie rinido

mhc in caoo you wish to pros

then. to

Vachington, Amoricon Deparinent and JI.B.

(Rondo

Bynti)

Tune 12, 1062:

1.0r 0.

Mico Clubod

CONFIDEI

56829

DocId: 32424584

Page 10

---

## Page 11

OUFIDENTIAL

BRITISH ENBASSY;

TA VANA

June 20, 1963•

(1011/63)

Joan lain

You may have seen thesumnry of Castro's speech in the

Financial Times of due 6, which containe two inaccuraces:

Although we have already sont you a cummary of thie apeech

In our telegram 16 Saving of June 621

these two points coll

for some comment.

200

The artlole states that Cubs vas prepared

to 0lscuas

compensation for Unites States Investmento nationalleed under

Cuban revoluttonary lay, 1f the United Stuleo aereod to buy

Cuban sugar at more thon 53 cents per pound"

Castro-did,

1n foct, mention 55 cente but in

She context of Caba's

curiter offor to necotiaté with the United States, when

the world sugar price was well bolow this floure,

When

referiing to.any possible future.

iiscustions cbout compensation

Castro said that

the figure of st cents was now meaninglese,

(See parastanh 6

of our telégran lo. 16 Saving of June 6)

3.

The article also said tat the incrcased sugar price

offered by the u.s.s.R.

not benefit the Cuban

troasury

diroctly,.

but would bo used to pay off the Cuban debt to the

U.S SiR.

which Castro.out. nt. 5200 millIon, This might well

be time:

but all Castro did

in fact, goy, was that, the

Increased sugar price moula have to

10n0T1.811 000305. 816

not just the sugar

He used the figures of the debt

to Russia (3150 to 2200 million) co show that Cuba was in no

position

to simply distribute the Increnne ag higher pay,

etc.,

but that it should bo ploughed back into the economy

by being used to anoroase the means of production (see

paragraph s of our telegram No. 16 Saving of June 6)

I om sending a copy of thin lotter to Brown in Amerloan

Department and to JcI,3.

Cons

(S.D. Eccles)

I.J.M.

Sutherlond, Eag.,

British Embaopy,

VASIINGTON

CONETDENSLAL

HH 56829

DocId: 32424584 Page 11

---

## Page 12

BESCRLOUED

(1501/63)

BRITISH BASSY,

HAVANA

June 20, 1963.

Drov lam

Below 1a

sone further information on the

sugar harvest,

in contimiation of my lettem 1301/63 of June G and June 12.

The latest figures from the notice board In the Empresa

Consolidada del Azucar refor so the mount of sugar cane

actually milled by June! lend are in metric tons.

Province

MOrR

Actual Total

Las Villas

10,356

Oriente

13

142

894

Habana: (nonchange )

Piner del. Rio

665

580

927

Ma tangon

035

9447

885

176

Canaguey

11,917

641

National: Total

47,004 $ 195

7,446

126, 193

193

2: 503, 138

269,276

3, 695,050

130,181

31, 169,985

We have no new confidential totalo to give you.

At the

Firet vational Hectine of cano growers fron

"Granjos dol Preblo":

somehintorantion was riven by the IN Ride

directorate,

all referrine to "aranjos del Pueblo"

(a)

the yeld of cane in 1963 vna dome 40 thousand arrobas

per cabalteria.

and

must be increaced to 60 choucand in 1964

approximatoly

1 tong per acre up lo 20 tong per acre)

for re-sowing

1327443

caballerlas.

A.11

the aprine sowings (796.h4 cabaltorian) are to be completed by

June 30.

The nunber of machines to

he used for lifting cone in the

nant beat moon done tenta vo

100 because 01: 600 of on

which have been added to the 3,

the soviet Union. To lo clatned that these 4, 100 machines will

Ilberite between 80 and 100 trousand workery who can now he need

for cutting.

The clalm that oll cone lifting will be mechanised

next vear

hes now beon reduced to "all the State sector and

between

it ana 80 per centoof ull one cane". Tha rate of "lift!

for these

machines to cala to be 3,000 arrobus per day if tho

fields

they ard woking in have an avernge yield of 40 thousand

arrobas ner.caballeria 1.crap.roximately.gl.tong

aday. In

fielde melding approximately 14ntong per acre

Repartment ina

Ian sording a copy of thie latter to Brown in American

(3.D. Docles)

T00 olda:

Sutherland, Esa.,

RESTRICZEL

HH 56829

DocId: 32424584

Page 12

---

## Page 13

1501/65

2892220225

BRITISH PICASSY

HAVARIA

June 12, 1355

Please

refer. to

letter 1501/63

of Tude 6, about the Cuban

sugar barvest.

The second

ponson contioned has tola

that

the contidential

Jubar Government

estimate

of: sugar production is

betmeen

3.6 and 3.5

million tons.

Zhie information

come 120m 2

Coveraners. departoents. out.nov

one directly concenaod with the sugar:

industry

I an sending & coor 01 this letter to

Michael Brown in

so the J.I.3.

the Boreign office end

(S. D. Ecoles)

I. J.

Sutherland,

MASHINCION.

3D3D.

HH 56829

DocId: 32424584

Page

13

---

## Page 14

GONRT20

(1301/63)

BRITISE ENDASSY,

ILAVANA.

Jino 20, 1963•

After the announcement in the

joint communiqué.

losued at the end of Castro's volt

to Ruadio that

the U.S.s.R. would buy Cubon engar

n't the world price,

00tr0'a reicronce do a price of 6 conta

per pound

gpeach of June 4 four fel. no. 16 Saving ol

nas rather on ontiolinar.

to true

Cootro d1n no% Bay 8hat 6 carde mos the final offer

lio was at paine to noint out shot jusssa offered

2 cente per pound when the mold price

wag. between

and centa, and that, whon the offer of 6 conts

wad mado

the world price wao still very unsurble

and nobody knew whore it ou going so sette

At tho Queon's Birthdoy porty 1 menbar of the

staff not a junior official. of tho Miniatry

of Toroign Affoire, who hac been with Castro on his

Wion astrod about swear,

tho otfictel

sold that thie notual price me 62 verdo per pound and thou

tnia noo a finni figure:

He was quite indistent on

this figuro of 62 conlo

alticught an not sure whether

this shone thnt the orcioul woo badly informed or

shether he was tellins us bone dung

ner.. Honever,

no also confimed that only the U.3.3 H. bad agreeo

to this increase and

the other Comminist

countrina would not be folionin

In machington and to

(502. Eccles)

A D. 1373049%

Faaronan Douartment,

FORMIGN 011702,202.1.

CONCIDINELA.

HH 56829

DocId: 32424584

Page 14

---

## Page 15

NNSTRIGEED

(1397/63)

HAVANAS

Juno 20, 1903-

Picase refer to Brian

soch'o letter 1397/63 of March 12,

about the Cuban

merchant. Cloeve

Sho

"androo concazen Linco" arrivon hero or tune 15.

Unliko lts dister ohim, the

"Carlo Cloufnegon"

the song,

rather thin the parenco, of the revoltionary marthyr

nober whom

the chip vas

nomad and flowi cut to Loland to

autend the launchine conomony andreturned to Cuba on board.

no before it has intended do hold oncos demonotention of

velcome but this wis concolled because of the death of Carlos

Tonnades Ro, a nonion executive of thond.r.e.n.

in addition to the detaiza divon 1n noramoph 3 of the

Zestor under reteronoe follen the apottomble to thia chipe

except that the crow 1G Mivon do 41), the folloming have

alno boon divon In the presos

dorth of bold - 12.55 motron;

drought - 2 metres;

water copacity -

202 toria;

not tomica - 5,500spocs dowre 7,9000004

9,200.

the ship has divo colns

and can casay 12,156 cubic meerce

or 16,853 cubio metreo or rockaked cooda.

In terme

or relat, the carrying commoley da clotard to bo 10, 0h0 on

It 15

only that tha third ship co thia tyre, the

"icacolio Iglecias" will arrive in October.

5°

I am sonding a copy of this letter to Sutherland in

Washington, Chancory,

and Senior Navol Officer

Voot Indies

of prancoon and an enclosink no extra copy sor the Miniatry

(3.D. Eccles)

BrO:M,

Ameridan Dan trade see 1-

DONE CH ORPICS

KHSERT C

HH 56829

DocId: 32424584

Page 15

---

## Page 16

SESTRYCI.SD

(10229/65)

BATANA

Juno 27, 1963.

chich croaded with Scott's

lotter of My 22, reported sho

Jones lotter 1023/63 20 Laat Singa of noice betrona

Vanpuny and Cuba on the anylod quaction Accorting to tho Cohna

prosO, the romaining 10, anyleco. in ibe Cuban Enbassy hero 131%

tha counor in four fligio land miek..

Way Uruguyon Wraary now

bavo no angless.

2,

chis nowapapor version is alichtly at oddo mith to coconne

officil responolble for mking tho arrangemite

for the payloco, departuro.

too pileno losda

rent off to riend, and a suallor group or poocke me wore

accopablo to cho United Statos vent to Monico, milng & total

of about. 369.

Thay were allened do tam trunk-loses cf

"porkomal

ssfocia" mith they, mon of 1t corlounly monsted suto tLa

Uruguran Dubacer by cutaldoro.... I ballove 45o Acaricaa chosens

relieved thom of tho thornands of cloaro rith nima thoir pockota

pure stuffed.

Zamozen sa tents 2o

I an comine into lotter to Jodeo da Monteriaco and

( Do Fútal )

FORETON CEPICE.

RESTRICHED

HH 56829

DocId: 32424584

Page 16

---

## Page 17

CONTIDENITAT

(1301/63)

ERICISE BIBASSY,

HAVANA

July 4, 1903:

Below is sone firther information on sugar, in continuation

of my letter 1301/63 of June 20.

2:

The final "obequeo" hog been

but no production

figures of auy

sort mere neatione0.

In his closing speech,

Tidel Castro said that the sugar harvook shia year nas the

worst since the revolution

bus it rould be the last of tho

"worst years".

The only other point of interest in his

spoech was that the amall famore would receive 4 cents.

partly

because al the bat harvest and farily to stimulate future

productions.

The latoot figures from the notice-board in the Impresa

Consolidadadel Anúcar retor. to the amount of sugar cone actually

and are in netric tong. Only three nills

milled by June 27(suo in Oriente and one in Canaguer

are still working

Actual Total.

Paovince

Las Villas

Oriente

Ia Habana

(no change)

Pifar del

RiO

Matenzos

Camaguey

7: 119: 335

181.

?

503

661

138

3

309

, 612

709

050

7,

255,348

31,398, 164 LSC

10,363;005

93

1510

029

465

152

927

930

559

1409

11,295, 193

Total

•d0'

47,401,922

Those figures ring true to us -

(a)

because their developmont over the past month

an has been steady and reasonable, and

(D)

because the amount of sugar at giolds of 11%

and 12% woula bo 3:45 million tono and 3.77 million

tons, respectively

and thoso figures tally with

the various moticini estimateo which we have been

reporting recently.

We have had tue privave estimetes during the past fortnight

when are worth reporting.

An Econonist not in sympathy pith the Governnent said that

he had hoard that the actual sugar harvest uno about

3.4 million tons,

to nhich about of million tons had bean

added fron reserves

to give a grand total of about

3.8 million tons. (ve got this at second hand).

/t11) 4 technical

I.J.M. Sutherland, Esg.,

British Embassy,

WASHINGTON •

CORFIDEIETAL

HH 56829

DocId: 32424584 Page 17

---

## Page 18

CONFIDENT!

(1301/63)

(11) A technical adviser repponaible for suger nachinery

In Oriento Provinco Vold a momber of tho claff that

the final estimate nas 3.6 million tons and that he

thought thet that vos about right.

He aldo added that

Toone 3 million done of oans hactboen tert ancut

but

he did not think that cather

ence or the nonly plantec

cane would enable the harvest to he nore than 4 million

tons next year.

the foot that

this yesr's auger crop

In an airbiela an at lando for rule? miition tong vas

he long than

sanitbod publicly for the firut time.

the Econonict mentioned (nentioned in paragroch 4(1) above)

also said that,

accordine to his intomation

the increase in

price offered by Ruasia would orly apply as from 1964.

1g far as now sowinga are concerned come facto wero:

given by Carlos

Rainel Rodriquon, President of I.N.R.Ao, on

June 26 (and published in lloy on June 20. Those tic up

fairly well with those elven in my lottor 1501/63 of June 6

1l1 figures rafor to escinatos of plontings completed by June

(a) National total - 5, 190 caballontag

the annual nom of

13,200 caballertas.

that 1o, 30% of

(b) The lavana total of 550 caballerias

(65% of its norm),

and the oriente total of 2,000 cabalicrias (53% of its

norm) were described as good.

(c) The Camogley tosch of 700-750 caballerins (21% of its norm)

was described as very bad.

8.

Some

figures have boen given about the progress of the

fighe againct the bug known as

"borer"

A menne of attack

1s by breeding flies

"TIXOPHAGA" variety which, I believe,

lay osas which roed off there bugs roo had been brod.

thus killing then. Up to

June 15 of lact year only 21,000

this yeor the tobal on June 15 mao 274,000! Samples of such

bugs taken on May 31,

1962 showed that between 0.2% and 6.1%

of them had been autholod; but for comples Jeter taken, on

May 31, 1263, the rance wao bohween 49 and 24-770

I am copying this letter to Brown in imerican Department

and to J.I.B.

(S.D. Eccies)

I.J.M.

Sutherland, Usg.,

WASHINGTOR •

CONTIDEILIAI

HH 56829

DocId: 32424584

Page

18

---

## Page 19

DACTISIT MOASOT,

(409745))

JeNna 299210802.

An Agroomont wad planed hond on inno 21 betscon

the Cuban nationn? ahipping lirio: "Einood

Mombiado"

and

Tobinoonericono de Bapadio.!.

Under To accconcot a Monthly

ohinning ocryido jo do be octablacked botueon Broin

(arcelona) and (Arbo,

the too conlodoo providing. she

cada in niboenato honcho. f Cabon chip

paroy d01 1101

10 n2x0cxy On 167 COY. 00./202062010

and tho

*Sierra. Barta" do cota bo bo loadina din

Valencia.

the new shad d23 1902g

chich timo announcod albato 9

Cow daps of the conclusion or a comorcial narenacat rid

Urugunry

hailed in tha prose

yet anowor

ernone of the Dantoroptoy of the Undhod. Stasee polloy

01 blockading Cubie

3:

The Direotor on "Durene Maabiona"

annonac ins

this

to Mie arco, epole of menu to

tho uno of

tbo Cuban morchant Slook.

With the zocant echulaition

Tron Doland

"ot

the "Glored doestza"

*Gaallo Ciontregos"

"Gone Doo dingot (ry Joutar 150%/05 of Tarch 12)

aid

tho imponding conotruction. of, tho

MAzecolio Idlebine"

200

Cubo mil2 ohviouo2y bry to carry

moro of abe foreich

trade in fig own bosboor

: 3t0

Jirector apolse of oponind officoo lit various porto of

the worlo to peomote thin, nod i bollove one of tho

torns or the Caban/Unguamn trado ogreonond lo. thre only

chips 08 the tro countzies shio:2a be used.

I on copyine chia lobbor to Satherland

An Washington,

Chinocry in 300z10 ob0 enclose conted nhich you nog nish

$0 2092

to tho Doord of trade.

cho Mnlotry of Cronoport

Jit.

B200D,

Anceleen

Depair bacht,

BOBILISEE DERTOS, CORL

90L/ 2004

HH 56829

DocId: 32424584

Page 19

---

## Page 20

CONTIDELYCIAL

(1011/63)

ERICIS IRASSI,

HAVANA.

July 3, 1963.

Our teloaram no. 456 of tune 19 mentioned unfovourable

references in Cootre's speech made

ad Cardenas on June 18

to the uge of smoll. islando around Cuba - obricuoly the

Babamas were meant - for illicit counter-revolutionary

In subsequent conversarion with the Anbassador

sonetimes carnied. away

that he did not intend any attaok on Britain.

As you will soo fron our tolontam no. 456,

the referonces

in the specch to Fronce were rather more pointed.

Tho Fronch

Charge d'Arreires told us that he made a protest to the

Cuban Government about those remarko, which we believe to be

based on countor revolutionery. clains originating in miani

, even if the inericans and the British refused to 67loi

their territory to be noed to liborate Cuba

friendly countries vould. The Pronch Charge d'Arfairco confirmea

that there was no Ironch territory closer than Martinigne

and Guadeloupe and thot the Drench mould not countenance the

uso of these islands, even if this vore practicaule.

Ve aid not think Castro's tomorks unduly offensive

and did not,

therefore, propocc to protest.

therefore

no question

of lioising with the French.

French Imbnosy diù not tellus in advance of their intentions.

We do not know whether they had instructions fron France:

or decided to take action on thoir oun initiative.

I an copving

this letter to Suthorland in Vashington

and Chancery in Paris:

(B. Hitch)

I.M. Brown,

American Dapartment

POPPICH OrTION. S.W.1-

CONCIDDIUSTAE

HH 56829

DocId:32424584

Page 20

---

## Page 21

ECONOMIC REPORT:

Anril.

- June 1963

General

•1.;

This quarter has been relatively.

ruiet politically,

the main point of interest being Dr. Tidel. Castro: visit

-to the USSR during which it vas announced that Russia would

pay Cuba world prices

for her surar:

The new nice

apparently

to be 6 cents per pound. las opposed to the

original 4 cents).

This increase is to

be used for

expanding means

of production in Cuba generally

although

it is not known

whether Cuba

Mall receive any. of

the

increase as aiditionnl convertible currency. Since D..

Castro's return from the USSi, he nao placed croat emphasio

on the need for Cuba to concentrate on the development of

production and the expansion of the economy.

2..

Competition on o

points basis has been introduced

between units and individual workers under the title of

"Socialist emulation"

, (to roplace "capitalist compotition):

Points are awarded for nuch things ao attendance and

productivity and rewards are in the fon of honours such as

being

the "best worker of the monthl, and holidays at

seeside camps.

A nev

sygton

tried out in a pilot scheme.

rates of ay for a vorter

who completes his "norn

rate to be drawn will dopend on the workers tochnical

malifications

Is being

May I saw the introduction oc a social Security achene

under which workers who are ill for more than three days will

receive 40, of their normal pay

Agriculture - Sucar

The sugar harvest te victictly over,

the min' cconomic

concern

of

the Covernmont. duving the last

quarter havin?

been to bring in as

1s horostis described as tie vorst since the, revolution

and unofricial estimates are now in the recion of 3.5 to 3.8

million tons of

sugar

The latcod official ficure is that

at June 25, 31.388.164 tons of ouger sene had been milled.

a ng hinto

6:

On his rotuch from Rugsta Dr. Bidel Castro Said that

the USSR would be able to solve all the probleme about

cutting

cone by nachine, within two. rears:

He clained thet

for the 1964 harvest

Cuba would have at its dispos l

thus r-leasing 30 to. 100

Targets for future production are civen as 5.5 million

tons of sugar in 1964 and 7 million in

griculture - general

This quarter has scon the arrival of 100 Soviet

techniciano. to help in the devclo ment of cautle

Carming

/and

HH 56829

DocId: 32424584 Page 21

---

## Page 22

-2.

and 96 Bulgarians to help in increasing vegetable

production:

9.

The agreement between Cuba and the U.N. Food and

Agricultural Organization for the setting up of an

agricultural research station near Havana vas signed

Rome on April 10.:

The cost of approximatcly

33 million

will be shared botween the V.N. Snecial Fund (91, 157,600)

and the cuban Covernment (51,137, 000):

Cuba made the

necessary.deposit.of. 910, 300

with the UN. on June 13.

Fishing

10,

All five of the Japanesc fishing vessels mentioned in

the last economic report have now

arrived and two of these

have comnleted their

first overationel trip.

As a r'osult

tinned tunny fish is now availablo in Cuba agrin,

aftora

lange of

over a year.

At present

the mantitios available

are small.

11.

Alchouch shell fich have always beon nopular in Cuba,

ordinary Ciah is peldom eaten although Cuba io an ioland.

An advertising campaign is n win operation trying to persuade

Cubans to oat merluza (a lind of halo) as thia

is now being

landed by Soviet chips.

Fish was taken off the ration on

June 3 and in increase

in fioh concumption of 220% over

7962 is planned for this roar:

12.

111-wood Cuban fighing bouts are now beginning to come

from local shipyards.

Dr. Tidol Captro launched

17 of them

on June 18, each 17' long and capable' of carrying 16,000 lb3.

of fish.

Petrol

13•

the price of petrol was rised from 34 conts to 60 cents

sor Amorican rallon on June: 28.

Industry - General

Details have rocontly beon siven of some light

industrial

plante

which

are in the course of conctruction and

gome of which have actually started production:

a) " In Santa Clara,

a Jactory making dies and moulds for

use in othor cuban lactories is completed and io to start

production soon.

It cost 51, 415.000 and uses machincry trom

the USSR, Cacchoslovekia

Bulgeria, China und North Korca.

Production capacity - 149 tong per year.

Also being constructed at Santa Clara isa factory

miking comestic copliunces.

The cost is $12,489,000 and

machinory is Crech.

Plained proguction canacity

per ycar:

106,00 peace oxes, an is, doo cano one and not ro,

c): A Russian-guilt file factory in Guintenamo,

which his

is now to produce

Inter.

production. 18. 00,80

un to 1,500, 000 files a ycar, canloying

197 workers in two & hour shifts? Coot of construction vo

$1, 400, 000.

/D)

HH 56829

DocId: 32424584 Page 22

---

## Page 23

= 3.0

d) A.Czech-built.nut;

•bolt and washer factory in

Santiago de Cuba hns starten limited. production with 100

workers training

and producing at the same time.

Planned

production 1s 1,500 tons per fear with 150 workero in

shifts of 3 houro.

The cost of construction was: 9568,000.

A Czech-built factory for maling picks

axes

and hammers has been completed

in Guantanamo but is

not

yet in full procuction because of a shortage of electric

power.. Annual production io expected to be 100,000 picks

50,000 large axes;

20,000 small

25,000 hammers,

25,000 sledge hammers

and 25,000 apades.

A Czech-built factory for

and snoone had startoù production in santiago de Cub.

knives,

a). It is clained that 27% of Cubo's need for machets

will be met by a factory recently opened near lavana.

Costing 870,000 this factory chould produce each year

174,000 machets for iho augar cane industry, 4, 000 small

saws for use in coffee plantationo, 10, 000 tobacco workers

knives and 3,000 tin openers.

East Germany has buglt a brush tactory in Cioso

Camaguey,

It is intended to

hair, shoe,

clothes and

To be opened shortly is another East German

Canacuoy, which vill

Eucts need tor odering wire = 2, 200 motric tons

provide for all

Cost of factory was 5850,000.

Colona,

processing 3 million pounde of tobacco loaf per year

a cacao procesains plant was onened

in Baracoa, Costing

On April 1'300,000 this can process 1,300 metric

tong por year, employing 55 workers.

The factory for malina sacks out of Kenal, which

was mentioned in our Economic Report for 1962 has now

startod produciion.

Estimated production,

The oyste two factory 1g mi1216, 400.

omploying 254 workers,

light sacks per year,

this figure hoing 50% of the Cuban

demand.

Industry - Power

I5.

The finishins touches aro now being given to the

hydroclectric schome at Hanabarilla which will oventually

produce

90 million kilowatt hours per. year although only

56 million this year.

The nocervoir has need of two dams

one 46.5 m hich,

the other 59.5 mand covers an area of 19

aquare kiloneters.

The two generators are of 16,500 Kr

cach.

Shipring

16.

The

new Ruscion chin "Cosmonaut arrivod

May 27 from Riga, on ito maiden voyage.

The

in Havana on

"Cosionaut

/which

HH 56829

DocId: 32424584 Page 23

---

## Page 24

which has a dioplacemont of 21,400 tons. and

Knote,

will

sneed of 20

probably

used continuously on the Riga-havana

or Ioningred-Havana runsi

The second

shis built in Poland

foi the Cuban State

ambiso. arrived in Havans on June 15.

The Gonzalez

ship to the reunilo Cionfuezos

17,450 tons,

mentioned in the leot econonic report.

third chin,

Aracelio. Iologiao is crpocted in October.

18.

A monthly

Shipsing service dor freight. to.and fron

Spain io the subject of

En agrochont boiweon "Manbisa" and a

Spenich company, Comparty Infocnacional Jatino Americans

de España,

CIviL Aviacion

19.

The Spanish Airline Jberior has

increaded its flights

from a fochnichily to a nookly deconcy end 6.M.A.

(Mexicana):

incucurated s sockly ilicht from Honice Cit on June 26.

Governmont Orenizations

The Moistry of Purlio Rocke has boch ro-styled the

Ministry of Construction and will also take on rosporcibility

for hydroelectric schemes, denicace, mater suarly, cartography

21•

: Four

of

now Instituton have boon dat. up under the Ministry

Industries

to develon the country's natuml radources.

Thosc ane for the invostigation into the devclonment of

a)

the manufacturd of rogar derivatives

the noc of machinery

.C.)

mining and minoralory

??)

the chemical industru

Foreten Inado -i Genetril

22.

Sonc export Claures have recondly been published in a

magazine in Havana.

Yeer

ainc

Others

Total

1958.

793.556,000

(81,0.)

1959

4918525

7233:

1960

493,102

1802000

1957 3328583000

1962

1456

1018, 000

Tobacco

-producte

49, 577,000

54 501,000

62, 258,000

59÷79

759,000

90, 549,000

(12%)

91, 742,000

(144%0 )

62,111

(10%).

52,362

733,682,000

637,655,000

615,226,000

624,910,000

25.121

150) 0

58,859

(2200

520, 728,000

/Soviet Union

HH 56829

DocId: 32424584

Page 24

---

## Page 25

Soviab Untea

22.

ancon'

apeock Ur.

Pios

Crotro

Boid chat cuba

Trade

deficit with the Sovier Taron Mart toy

97.50

2000

million.

23.

The

Gradetrotocol Cor 1903

ac cocood ia Buderest

on March

27. and: provided Cord coneral incronos

in trade

07 207, 0v0r 1960.

211.

On Toy 2 contradis

Mancarias busos and

Loucion,

worth 92,462,375,

which will be delivocad later

tus peor:

Soerob are aucrantee

tor 10 arro con

the

vohacies involrad, degoly 150 Ikarocrbadoo, Modor 530. and

25 Dutra DR-50 Cioner Lorrici

trialsi.

ic Othon is "oro bufed fin one?

; o Solla of enndyine 200

Desecacoro.

Coechoclovalu

26.

0n1 Abe1l 17 a contrach vac

igned for 106 Sodo buses

for delivory

Me cor la 96,300,000 plug

21,200,000

2ue 19ST UT 10x.pwsnle0e

in 1905.1

Chan theod ind

4onodk econo alrondy ordered for

thio cor bove beon detivo od, dt2t de 391. Canch, basdo

in Cubse

600 daech torries o verlos trace will

Se

amplied das voir.

Eoland

27 ::

The tride motocol Cor 1963 vac gined in Matamon April

0ub: 6111. 002214

02C0.190

obal concentraron,

27?11!

super,

omone tie

cines,

citrus

fruit

quicogy

Se cocod crudo, cod

done other croducts.

Poland

ail cupal clectate dotore, bucleide pochingo,

machine doole, labozotone ecuano al a

molical ocuiomont,

tractoro and coticotun dacatior, ears, bievotos, dando,

chemicalocond doxciz00.

Elosy 102es

recordo,

alideo cond atabas tod

hilatelian

noo be included.

R2D2922

A contract tor 1,500

rOtos 45-0 ortodoro,

North 05

Me 210000 one Mor 050

miras monte tor mode rotad

01,500,000

Nado is

17 million crocirrco.be 0310

goodd betwoon 1966 ond 1970, 0r

intacheron Cubarcan

iroduce then!

29 •

trade

The

payneobe accocono veo sirned in Robal on ung 16.

text had

not beencinnoonced botas torported thet the new;

acrecnons te tos daes peano,

nepalesion June 1,

1963

In this

soriod Morocco win

import ond mil2io0 tong of anoctined

durar

and mons

cobroco. a cuba mill reccive

treh neol;

tinned pardinco,

cuantities

or value arg

/avillable

HH 56829

DocId: 32424584 Page 25

---

## Page 26

- 6. -

available.

Uruquay

A Cuban trade miscion has boen in Montovideo for some

has been a;

aront.deal of press: coverpge in

although we agrooment is not

yet complaced, it

reported that Cuba will supote aurar (20,000 tons in

1963 and 30, 000 Cong in 1964)

Unusuay vill uly rice (as,con tons in 1osss, beet, flour

and car tyres.

Chile

80ines to Chile.

It has been announced that a trade delocation will be

United Kinadom

32 г

for the three months January - March, Cuba-U.K. trade

has been

as follower

1961

1962

Imports fron Cuba

Exports to Cuba

Re-exports

€463,238

01, 669, 743

C1,349,157

6960,826

2: 5,569

€15,783

1963

6356, 412

9513,912

49,457

HH 56829

DocId:32424584

Page 26

---

