TO

FROM

(OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 s010-106-95
MAY 1962 EDITION

UNTITLED ra Got, .NMENT Ci
Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054) pate: 9/10/64

SAC, MILWAUKEE (92-262) - P -

SUBJECT: Ow COSA NOSTRA

\

3¥6 l
- 64 Sep 25888 Ey

AR - CONSPIRACY

Re report of SA LEONARD H. MC COY dated 8/21/64 ’
at New York, which is a summary pertaining to membership
activities, etc. ‘of captioned organization.

It will be noted that the history, leadership and
membership of the Milwaukee family of La Cosa Nostra are set
ous in some detail as furnished by MI 623-C-TE.
et This is to call attention to the fact that any

- dissemination of such extensive information pertaining to so
small a family as Milwaukee might constitute a very real threat
to the security and, therefore, the life of this informant.
Since, under their system, only members of La Cosa Nostra know
for certain who the other members are, it would not be difficult
for the leadership to check the entire membership for a leak--
provided it became known or suspected that such a leak existed.
For this reason the Milwaukee Office confines all specific —
information about membership of La Cosa Nostra to administrative
pages in reports that ‘go to the USA. In the event any
dissemination outside the Bureau is made of referenced report,
it is believed that the sections pertaining to Milwaukee should
be revised to show a less complete coverage. f£

“CO Bureau (RM) (92-6054)
|= New York (RM) (92-2300)
2 - Milwaukee (92-262) (1 - 137-1318)

CT,
oy”

nec 67 G2-~GoS ¥- "TS

cence Cmca SSI

> 11 SEP 111

¥y

Docld:32576034 Page 1

