# docid_32316407

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10347-10027

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 92-3396-21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PH

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 07/28/1958

PAGES:

20

SUBJECTS :

JAMES PLUMERI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

WHY 15920

DocId: 32316407

Page 1

15

---

## Page 2

Repart Form

FD -283 (5-12-85)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Osfica

office of Origin

TIRE OF CPETADEIPTA

PHILADELPHIA

ANGELO JOSEPH SCIANDRA, wa.

Date

R0728/58%,

195, 3323935242h

16758-3057/1,5,10, 11,14,15тред.

OBERT ILA BOYZA

ARACTER OF CA.

igk

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsia:

SCIANDRA interviewed 7/1/58 furnished following information. He

is president of Ann-Lee Frocks, partner of S & B Machine Company and one-

third owner of Claudia Frocks,

His orchestra is non defunct. He

admitted close friendship with RUSSELL BUFALINO and gives BUFALINO half

his salary fron Claudia Frocks and $4,000 or $5,000 a year from Ann-Lee

Frocks. DAVE OTISCO also on payroll of Ann-Lee. Admitted close friendship

with JOSEPH PARBARA and contacts with DOMINIC ALATMO, ANTHONY GUARNIERI,

JAMES PLUMERI, LOUIS CORDI and others. ANDREW SCIANDRA, Buffalo, N.Y., is

his uncle.

"Tent to Apalachin, N.Y., 11/14/57 with DAVE OSTICCO and returned

by himself.

Photograph of subject identified by ATTD as one of the

individuals at Apalachin, N.Y., 11/14/57. Investigation of pertinent toll

calls set forth.

AARON CLASSMAN, Scranton, declined any knowledge of

pressure by either SCIANDRA or BLANDINA in any business deals. After

ILGWU strike ended, SCIANDRA attempted to organize an association of garment

workers without success.

Information re bapking activities set forth.

BECAUSE OF HIS ASSOCIATION WITH OTHER NOTORIOUS CRIMINAIS, HE SHOULD BE

CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

-P-

Approved

Coples nado:

Bpecial Agent

1n Charge

i- Bureau (92-3396) I66-4a60-

2 - Baltimore (92-147)

3 - Philadelphia (92-437) / 1993

CC returned of destroyed

1212/48 # 13:

Ma8.09

0:

3321

92-

Do not

3396-21

spaces belon

21 JUL 29 1958

REC- 19

EX. - 140

8 0 AU6 6

1958

Property

- This

Is loaned to you by the FBI,

and neither it nor its contents

the agency to which loaned.

are to be distributed

out

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1956 O- 385319

HH 45920 DocId: 32316407 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

PH 92-437

INFORMANIS

T-1

I-2

T-3

T-4

T-5

T-6

T-7

I - 8

T-9

I-10

I-11

I-12

T-13

I-14

T-15

T-16

I-17

I-18

PC I

PCI ORLANDO MENCHI

PH 526-0

FCI EDDIE BORDEN, New York Office

Dun and Bradstreet, Now York City

PCI RAY BIANCO

PCI

PCI JAMES DE ANGELIS

Mrs. MARY LAWRENCE, Dun and Bradstreet,

Scranton, Pa.

PCI VINCENT BENKOSKI

JOSEPH DELANEY, Pittston Police Department,

who requested his identity be concealed

PCI

PCI ANTHONY N. POLICARE, PCI Albany

Ex-PCI HAROLD GRAGLE

Attorney JAME'S LENAHAN BROWN

Miners National Bank, Wilkes-Barre,

attorney for ILGWU,

who furnished the

information in confidence

JOHN SHULDE, Toller, First National Bank,

Wyoming, Pa.

S. C. BATTISTI, Miners Saving Bank, Pittston, Pa.

FRED RAMAGE, Cashier, Liberty National Bank,

Pittston.

OTHER 4

ADM PACE (CONTES (CONTSS-N003S

- 40 -

NW 45920 DocId: 32316407 Page 3

---

## Page 4

ADMINISTRATIVE: PAGE (CONT UED)

PH 92-437

INFORMA NIS (CONTINUED)

T-19

T-20

T-21

FCI

Eastern Airlines,

Wilkes-Barre - Scranton Airport

PCI HENRY P. ZALE, Allegheny Airlines,

Wilkes-Barre - Scranton Airport

WILLIAM D. TAYLOR, Cashier, Luzerne National

Bank, Luzerne, Pa.

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERACE

The following CIs and PCIs are presently being

utilized in this investigation:

PH 521-0

PH 526-0

JAMES VINCENT DE ANGELIS

OTHER 4

ORLANDO MENCHI

RUSSELL GARLIN

SYLVESTER FALKOWSKI

JOSEFH FELDMAN

HENRY ZALE

It will be noted that the last four PCIs

of various airlines at the Avoca Airport.

are employee's

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE (CONTINUED)

- 41 -

581110051

• -

NW 45920 DocId:32316107 Page 4

---

## Page 5

-..

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE (CONT. TED)

PH 92-437

The following individuals are under consideration

for contact as potential criminal informants:

271 Charles Street

Reported to bé a girl friend of the subject. It is

expected that if she is developed, she will be able to furnish

valuable information on the subject's current activities,

LEONARD BLANDINO

77 Wyoming Avenue

Wyoming, Pa.

An associate of the subject in the S and B Machine

Company•

If developed, he should be able to furnish valuable

information on the subject's current business and social

activities as well as his travel, etc.

LOUISE TRESCEETA (Phonetic), Bookkeeper

at Ann-Lee Frocks, Inc., for past nine years.

If she is developed, it is expected that she will be able to

furnish current information on the subject's business activities

and associates.

OTHER 4

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 42 -

grtf-l009)

NW 45920

DocId: 32316407

Page 5

---

