# docid-32325825

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90038-10014

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-4930-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 07/21/1961

PAGES:

15

SUBJECTS :

JAMES HENRY DOLAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DoeId: 32325825

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DL 92-292

ADMINISTRATIVE

INFORMANT COVERAGE

Presently utilized by the Dallas Office are the

following who are believed to be in a position to furnish

information re subject's associates and activities:

DI 91- C

DI: 95-C

PCI HUGH C. FOWLER, Dallas

DL- 129-C

Confidential Source JESS M. ROSS, JR., Oak Cliff

Bank and Trust co., Lallas.

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

T-1 is HUGH C. FOWLER, Booking Agent, Commercial

Building, Dallas, Texas, contacted by SA

MANNING C. CLEMENTS.

I-2 is DI-91-C, contacted by SA ALFRED D. NEELEY.

T-4 is DI-129-C contacted by SA JAMES W. BOOKHOUT.

T-5 is JESS M.

JR.,

ROSS,/Officer, Oak Cliff Bank and

Trust Company, contacted by SA MANNING C. CLEMENTS.

T-6 is W.C.H. JACKSON, Officer, Dallas Federal

Savings and Loan Association, Dallas, contacted by SA MANNING

C. CLEMENTS.

T-T is WILLIAM SOLTES, Bondsman, Dallas, Texas,

contacted by SA MANNING C. CLEMENTS.

Extended period of this report is due to fact

there were no indications of additional criminal activity

and it was desired to report outcome of various charges

previously pending against subject.

-C-*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32325825

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL. 92-292

on May 1, 1961 in connection with burglary and entering of a

telephone booth, Dallas on February 16, 1961.

On June 23, 1961, DL ToT advised that wILLIAN SOLTes,

Dallas bondsman made

bond for DOLAN in connection with the

Federal Firearms Act charges pending at Biloxi, Mississippi,

that other bonds which SOLTES has made for DOLAN in the past

have been discharged due to dismissal of process and/or no

bills.

It was stated that SOLTES was known to have been in

contact with JOHN I. FISHER, DOLAN's attorney, and that

FISHER had stated DOLAN had

considered leaving Dallas and that

if he did so, SOLTES would be notified.

On July 5, 1961, DL T-4 advised SA JAMES W. BOOKHOUT

that DOLAN, accompanied by

FISHER, was known to have paid $30

on an old bond account on that date.

According to DL T-4,

FISHER had related in informant's presence that at the time of

DOLAN's arrest at Gulfport, Mississippi, a stolen golf bag

was found in the car in which he was riding, that local

officers reportedly do not have the golf bag now but FISHER

was concerned as to whether local authorities at Gulfport

intended to file charges against DOLAN in this connection.

It appeared DOLAN desired to avoid arrest on a fugitive

warrant should such charges be filed by arranging bond in

advance.

On June 9, 1961, DL T-2 advised SA ALFRED D. NEELEY

that JOE RUSSELL WYATT, Dallas Police DepRa poetorter 30252

nad approached NICK CASCIO, FBI #692074/17d

determine if they could furnish information concerning any

"hot jewelry" that might be available for purchase.

DOLAN

reportedly stated

he did not know of any in Dallas but that

if he was interested he, DOLAN, could put WYATT ia touch with

a party in Phoenix, Arizona.

E. LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES

On June 29, 1961, SA MANNING C. CLEMENTS was

advised by a female who answered the telephone at the

American Guild of Variety Artists, DOLAN's former employment,

that he was no longer associated at this office, that this

female had "no idea" where DOLAN was presently employed or

where he could be reached.

On April 12, 1961, DL T-2 advised SA ALFRED D. -

NEELEY that DOLAN was

selling cars for NICK CASCIO, FBI

No. 692074 (previously identified as an associate), on

Ross Avenue, Dallas.

- 10--

DocId:32325825

Page 3

---

