# docid-32576743

## Page 1

Transmit the following in

Via -

AIRPEL

FBI

Date:

9/4/69

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priorizy)

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (166-4355)

SAG, BOSTON

(00-845) (P)

LUIGI GIOVANNI MANACCHIO, aKa

FUGT TIVE;

IRANK ANTHONY VENDITUOLI, aka

Frank Vendi -

FUGITIVE;

EXT AJ

TEAR - GAMBLING

(00:

Boston)

The following is to advise the Bureau of current

and planned investigation to locate and apprehend subjects

MANACCHIO and VENDI:

All established ICN informants at Boston Division

have been contacted regarding this matter.

Informant

information to date indicates possibility that subject

MANACCHIO iS In New York City with girl friend, identity

not known, and possibly in contact with CARLO GAMBINO,

ICN Commission member, and NICK BIANCO, LGN. BrOOKLyNS

The New Yor Dive on convidence, To Informanta rose do

BIANCO and GAMBINO and attempting to identify girl friend

Of MANACCHIO.

Boston Division continuing efforts-also

to identify girl friend of MANACCHIO.

THOMAS DILUGLIC, Providence,

103 .,

attorney

and close friend of MANACCHIO confidentially advised

Bureau Agents that MANACCHIO telephonically in contact

- Bureau

Boston

NICO

1664355211

SMM: mej

(5)

5. SEPS 8

31969

363

SEP. 151969

Approved:

Sent

M. Per.

Special Agent in Charge

DocId:32576743

Page 1

---

## Page 2

REVIENEO BY

FUJAR TABA FORCE

ON

-13

NE BROC iN FULL

RELEASE IR PART

BS 166--845

with

him on 8/28/69. DILUGLIO stated MANACCHIO said he

was "confused as to

what action to take"

and when he

took care of sone personal matters over the next. two

weeks, he planned to surrender

to the FBI.

DILUGLIO

stated that MAÑACCHIO is quite concerned about effect of

publicity regarding case on aged mother and brother,

Dr. ANTHONY MANACCHIO, Obstetrician at Rhode Island

Hospital, Providence.

DILUGLIO contended he did not know

whereabouts of MANACCHIO and, if contacted again, will

strongly urge MANACCHIO to surrender.

DILUGIIO will be

contacted further regarding the above information.

AlSO,

continued pressure through interviews and fisurs will be

conducted on close associates of MANACCHIO in order to

effect his arrest through surrender or capture.

Informant for Internal Revenue Service, Providence,

He les

advised that MANACCHIO possibly in Italy and

Traveldo

there via : Alitalia. Flight records at Al-

italia being checked re this possibility at air terminals

at New

York City and Boston; also passport information re

MANACCHIO being checked through WEO.

RAYMOND JOSEPH PATRIARCA, Providence, R. I.,

on or subject rAthlancas contacted 9/4/09 and

agreed

cavel to Atlanta; Georgia, and discuss fugitive status

MANACCHIO and

vEND. with lather, currently incarcerated

Atlanta Federal.

Penitentiary.

feels that

"heat"

RAYMOND JOSEPH statec

generated by the FBI in fugitive

investigation is reflecting adversely on father and other

Subjects

In this

case, stating

that certain unnamed

Providence now are saying that

"FBI must

Good case of MANACCHIo and venDI would noi have mun.,have

RAYMOND JOSEPH also stated he hopes his father will okay

"passing word down to Providence" to have subjects surrender

to FBI in order to quell such talk. This aspect of investi

gation will be

followed closely..

Investigation concerning subject VENDI is being

centered on cooperation being given Bureau Agents by close

members of VENDI's immediate family, located in seekonk

ana dalt River, Mass., ana Barrington, R. I. Extensive

background information developed concerning VENDI and

leads set forth at Jacksonville, Miami, and Orlando,

Florida,

where subject recently traveled on vacation and possibly

has business interests. Both of subject's ex-wives indicate

they will turn subject over if he makes contact. Also,

subject's brother,

Deputy Chief of Police MIKE VENDITUOII,

sarrington, K. de

who at first was uncooperative in this

matters

now fully cooperative

is providing essential background intormation

which is being checked out.

166-4355-26

DocId: 32576743

Page 2

---

