# docid-32303042

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10283-10054

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2914-1ST NR 63

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

SAC, PG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

06/04/1959

9

GM, ASSOC, HAZIDAKIS, MIKE GEORGE, BKG, DESCR, REL,

GAMBLING, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

19.1

DocId:32303042 Page 1 .

5

---

## Page 2

DIRECTR, PBI (72-2918) (92-2914)

SAC PITTSBURGH (99-228) (92-236)

5/4/59

(00: P1ttsburgh)

Rerep of SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE, 5/4/59, PIttsburgh.

Attached are the original and four copies of a letterhead.

memorandum containing background information concerning

MIKE GEORGE HAZIDAKIS, a member of the MANNARINo organization.

In addition to background information the letterhead memoran-

um discloses possible violations of the internal Revenue code

on the part of HAZIDAKIS which should be dissenhated to the

Internal Revenue Service, Washington, D. C.

¡A review of the records of the U.S. Clerk of Courts, Naturaliza-

tion Bureal, Western District of Pennsylvania, mentioned in

Paragraph 1, Has conducted by SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE.

A review of records in the office of the U.S. Clerk of Courts,

Western District of Pennsylvania, mentioned in Paragraph 2,

was conducted by SA DOUCE.

Records of the Westmoreland County Jail, Greensburg, Pa.,

mentioned in Paragraph 3, were reviewed

by SA THOMAS G. PORSYTH,

III.

Records of the Passport Office, Department of State, Washington,

D. C.,

mentioned In Paragraphs

4 and 5, were reviewed by a

Special Agent of the WrO.

Records reviewed in the office of the Recorder of Deeds for

Westmoreland County, mentioned in Paragraph 5, was conducted

by SA DOUCE.

3 - Bureau (Encls. 5)

12-92-2918)

(1-92-2914)

2-21-32-238)

192-2914

RECORDE

151M10109

RAD/mm

(5)

JiA: 1536

SET REVIUS

SID2 "3

ACTION

/ DocId: 32303042 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-228

92-236

The physical surveillance mentioned in Paragraph 7 was conducted

by SAs DoUce and ForsYTh.

A review of Mdor Vehicle Bureau records mentioned in Paragraph

was conducted by sa DoucE.

An examination of records in the office of the Recorder of

Deeds for Westmoreland County, Pa., mentioned in Paragraphs

9 and 10, was conducted by SA DOUCE.

The source mentioned in Paragraphs 11-14 1s the report of

Security Officer LOUIS M. MARRANO, Division of security,

Department of State,

Athens, Greece, 5/21/58,

at Athens.

The source mentioned in Paragraphs 15-19 is confidential source

MIKE ZERVOS contacted by SA DOUCE:

The source in Paragraphs 20-22 1$ a confidential source MIKE

ZERVOS contacted by SA DOUCE(to afford additional protection

for source).

Records of the Passport Office, Department of State,

Washington, D. C.,

mentioned in Paragraph 23 were examined by

SA KENNETH

J. HASER.

A copy of the letterhead memorandum has already been

designated to IRS, locally®

THE MANNARINO BROTHERS HAVE BEEN ARRESTED IN THE PAST FOR

CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.

CONSEQUENTLY THEY SHOULD BE

CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

DOS

REVIEWED BY EBUJFK TASK FORCE

ON

914/94 NUN DA/SW

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

- 2 .

923-10029

DocId: 32303042

Page

---

## Page 4

Pittscuren,

June

Pennsylvania

1959

18-235

02-223

MIXE QBOROS MAZIDARIS, aka

Minas Hazidakis

1013 Thire Avenue

Now Xenstagion, Pa.

Records of the u.s. Clerk os courts, Naturalization Bureau,

weater Distriot of Penneylvania, Pitteburgh, Fe., Volum

Jie reviewed by a special Agent

of the PBI on February 25,

195, disclosed that WIKE UnOROs HAMIDANI, aged 22, arrived

1920, abosre the vessel themistocles" From Athens, areece.

veasel "Themistocles

The records Indicated that MAZIDARIS filed a Declaration of

Intention in U.ñ, Diatriet Court, Plttsburgh, January 19,

1923, and was adultted to citisenahip, January 1, 1925,

certificate of Naturalization Number 2212298.

Recorda of the U.S. Clerk of courts, Wester District of

Pennaylnia, criminal rociat, volune 35, rage 305, reviewed

by a Spedial Agent of the FBI on Fabruary 25, 1950, In the

case of the United States va MIXE ORDE HAZIDAKIS and

ANDY KALUMBAS, disclosed that defendants were indicted for

furnishing false testimony in a naturalisation proceeding

on November 15, 1936, In Violation of seetion 23 or the

Naturelization Act of June 29, 1906. The case was tried on

February 17, 1933, and MARIDAKIS was found guilty on all counta

of the indietment while YALUMBAS das acquitted by ordar of the

court.

HAZIDAKIS tas sentenced to too months Imprisonment on

June 9, 1933, and pald court soats in the amount of $51.

Records of the westmoreland county Jall, Oreenabura, Pa.,

rovloved by a special Agent of the PAI on Pebrary 24, 1958,

indisated that MIKE DORGE HAZIlAKIS mad dounlited on

June 14, 1933, after convietion In U.S, Distriot Court,

Pittsburgh, for violetion of section 23, inturallzation Act

of June 29, 1906.

Records disolozed that HAZIDAKIS NAN

released after being lapriaoned for tuo montha.

SEE REVERSE

SIDE FOR

CILES FICATION

ACTION

92-2914-

DocId: 32303042 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MERE GOOGS

HARDOMES

In scnelusten ceurco

Menslesed monas Enougs es 57 santour

Seracta

Paracus, Orence, he the 300a% reprenentassve

BAREPARIS 1n Crocee,

on Jamunny 14, 1959, stated chee MADRINT MARMANINO

2000062g

Lentonant insoses so financies mosters of the ertangle

Pillonia Caroltag Caotao seo concerned.

Soures polated out

according to MAMMARIO, INEMIES asantosad the bootso:

for the empo canca and to noted for his oscuracy an keeping

10C0200•

sene cource wont on

to cog: that RAtanias recently cold him

that be and 8010 DamAnA pecoved 6185 o sook arom Vio

MARRARIO OpOreGOS Eptengie Bitatardo Canbling Casino pluo

elm por cent os tho

taks on the dioe: tabled;

Aaebauing

no the some asurce, the alce porecatage coule mn on bigh

passco a meet.

Cho has

acquainted tot th 1122011X8 Son

over 20 poore stated that lAceDikte has becone a very wealthy

by sosson of his pascolation with the Manito brothere

and destra the past beveral yearo has side a aunter ee tripo

to his hone con in pirocus, Greco, and that eno piece o

proporty in Farseve

brings a

.o8 63,350 a month.

The sara source es Debruary 9a, 1958, pointed out that for sho

Dat 1a to 35 years; BARATIS

hea: beon a Granted Meusenend

CADASES MANITARENO.

to can asurco voss ca so by 6930 80

LAZICAKES hoo tho neaponsibadity of holsang longo antunts of

ench and making a fians acconting of the precocte to the

MANBARENO brothere.

The name source stated that Cusing 1957 MAGIDARIS vla1t0d his

te and con in Achons; 620000, and indscated to cose soaroe

before loving that to night ronin in Omoce taranentay.

sane sourss polnted out that coveras wonths lator after hactakes

potumed from Creene ho gathered fron convorationg, with hiw

ChoC CARIn NAMAnINO escher ordered sazuntis back to tho

indeed stacos on MAARto cont sonsens oves to princ Mars 00g

The same deurco sproceed tho opinion thee lAsaparts is tennissed

OS CABRIEL NAIVARIO and en%7 romaine in Rosa 21+08 8321838790

1198.0. hts.

993-199241

DocId: 32303042

Page

---

