# docid-32332329

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/2/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90101-10070

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-4194-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE: 06/29/1959

PAGES:

34

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.l

DocId: 32332329

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

TITLE OF CASE

MIAMI

Ofice of Q

M

Dato

6/29/59

Report made by

C. GRAHAM HURST

JOSEPH

RAXMOND MEROILA

CHARACTER OF CASE

Ака

Joe Merola, Joe Morrello,

JUMercer.

E

Investigative Period

6/22 - 25/59

Typed By:

đlp

ANTI

- RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

RÉFERENCE:

62-9-21-124

Bulet to Miami,, 6/10/59, In which subject

is referred to as

"JOSEPH MEROLA,

Garden of A0/

Allah Motel, 'Miami, Florida."

contes mat l Strial

C

--

le Rottra

ADMINISTRATIVE

Cor roviOn an EBIH@ by

SCA F02/22/02

roquest.

(See Bufile #62-117290)

This report contains information furnished by

CG 6132-C. Bureau issued instructions

in past that

information furnished by CG 6132-C must be handled with

utmost discretion since CI is furnishing information

believed not otherwise available to Bureau; that nothing

should be done to compromise

and information furnished

by CG 6132-C should not be disseminated outside the

Bureau. ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ACCES MADE

ALeMAN

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

FOR REWE:

DAIE 9/20/83 BY

(SEE BUFILE 62: 17203)

Do not write in spaces below

?

proved

"Copies made:

In Charges

211026

N92

MICT - I

Bhreau

- Miami (2-92-463)

(2-07=8049)

JUL

1959

COPIES DES

898 JUN

TROYED

1511972

SECT

60 JUL 10 1959

Property of FBI

This report is loaned to you by the FBl, and neither it nor its

Contents are toi be distributed outside the agener

# U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE, 1958

0344750

nich

loaned.

W.

DocId: 32332329

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 93-463

INFORMANT PAGE

MM T-I is PCI ARTHUR WILLIAM MILLER, Miami Office.

MM T-2 is PCI THOMAS C. O'DONNELL, Pittsburgh Office.

MM T-3 is CG 6132-C.

MM T-4 is PG 541-C.

MM T-5 is MM 644-C.

MM I-6 is MM 665-PC.

MM T-7 is PSI MANUEL SELGAS, Miami Office.

MM I-& is PCI JAMES MADDEN, Pittsburgh Office.

MM T-9 is THOMAS J. DONOHUE, Pittsburgh Police

Department, whose identity the Pittsburgh Office advised

should not be revealed under any circumstances.

MM I-10 #s PCI SALLY CARLTON, Pittsburgh Office.

MM I-11 is MM 618-C (formerly JK 2-C.)

MM T-12 is MIS. JEAN POLASKE; Secretary to District

Manager, Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company, who

is a confidential source of the Miami Office.

MM T-13 is PCI LUCILLE KELLEY, Pittsburgh Office.

MM T-14 is PCI NICHOLAS M. YOUNG, Miami Office.

31. 13

dole-par

DocId: 32332329 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Report Porn

FD-263 (5-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

MIAMI

Office of Origin

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

Date

6/29/59

Report made by

C.

GRAHAM HURST

CHARACTER OF CASE

Investigative Period

6/22 - 25/59

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA,

Aka., Joe Merola, Joe Morrello,

J. Mercer, E. Masters

Typed By:

dip

ANTI

RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

REFERENCE:

Bulet to Miami,,6/10/59, in which subject

is referred to as "JOSEPH MEROLA, Garden of

Allah Motel, Miami, Florida."

-c ÷

ADMINISTRATIVE

This report contains information furnished by

CG 6132-C.

Bureau issued instructions in past that

information furnished by CG 6132-C must be handled with

utmost discretion since CI is furnishing information

believed not otherwise available to Bureau; that nothing

should be done to compromise CI,

and information furnished

by CG 6132-C should not be disseminated outside the

Bureau.

approved

opies made:

Special Agent

In Charge

92

Do not write in spaces below

4194

Bureau

- Miani (2-92-463)

(2-87-8049)

431°

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 9/22/83 BY SP sac/ca

21/326

? of FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor

its contents are to be

distributed outside the agency to

isloaned

# U.s. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1958 0-344750

DocId: 32332329

Page 4

---

