=

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10279-10171
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 73-12030-103
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: GIBBS, PAUL W.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 06/10/1960
PAGES: 6
SUBJECTS :
HGR, CRIMINAL RECORDS, IDENT RECORDS, LV
GAMBLING ENTERPRISE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 09/09/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

v9.)
DocId:32301836 Page 1


L

— o
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Office of Origin Date
5/bn6/3/60
Report made by

‘CHARACTER OF CASE

LOS ANGELES
TITLE OF CASE

‘Typed By:

HERMAN MILTON GREENSPUN, aka
Herman M. Greenspan

APPLICATION FOR PARDON AFTER
COMPLETION OF SENTENCE

pasa rod ;
REFERENCES: Los Angeles letter to Bureau dated 5/ (608
Bureau letter to Los Angeles dated 5/24/60.

-Pe-
Ags ADMINISTRATIVE:

: On 1/25/60 HAROLD E, LEVITT, Dempsey Tegeler and
Company, 3287 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif., advised
SA's LOGAN J, LANE and FRANK H, TOWNSEND that he had
information that SAMUEL GREENSPUN, allegedly a Las Vegas,
Nevada,newspaper publisher, was a partner in Kratter Corp. pb
of New York City. { Qe

On 6/3/60 CSLA 3923-C, who was the original
source of the information that SAMUEL GREENSPUN was connected
with Kratter Corp., advised SA LOGAN. J, LANE that the
GREENSPUN who was connected with Kratter Corp., was &.°
resident of Brooklyn, New York and he was not identical with
GREENSPUN, the Las Vegas newspaper publisher,

Anne |
Ue a itt
Br Bureau (73-12030) (iiers'
SO ane
1 - USA, Los Angeles (Enc.6)
MET PP Lu a
2 = Los Angeles (73-9219)
thy. :

Approved Do not write in spaces below

Copies mado:

@ , VY 1 ce to Pardon Attorney.
A \ | )Department of Justice
: OV "JUL 191960 es
Au , ¢

Property of FBI — This roport is Jogned to you by the FBI, and nolther it nor its conients are to be distributed outside the agency tc\which loaned.

8% J 22 wa FS )e ©. 8. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1986 o—ae5st0

AAG

DocId:32301836 Page 2


LA 73-911
{ An FD~165 has been submitted regarding the applicant.

Careful consideration has been given to the source
concealed and a T symbol was utilized in this report only in
the instance where the identity of the source must be concealed. H

1 INFORMANT;
: Source Location
i Los Angeles T-1, 62-3891-357

i PCI VICTOR BYRON SAYRE, Sr. 6/3/60 SA EDWARD J. KIRBY,
3 oe i instant report

LEAD -
LOS_ANGELES

At. Les Angeles, Calif.: Will close case administratively
upon receipt of reports from ai dary offices.

|
\ COVER PAGE 1

SsAs- = SAA

DocId:32301836 Page 3
