JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10296-10046
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 105-96551-22
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: FARABEE, MAURICE F.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: — 05/29/1964
PAGES: 13
SUBJECTS :
WJ, RES, CUBAN EXILE, ANTIO-CASTRO, TRA, ASSOC,
BABARES, JOSE MIGUEL GOMEZ, INTV, CONSPR
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: = 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 05/18/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1
DoclId:32308718 Page 1


MM 105-3661

; . 2) (will contact [PSI JESUS RAFAEL FRANCO caneno, (402)
* a. ~
- ADMINISTRATIVE -

Referenced Bureau letter to Miami 2/3/64 referred
to report of SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR., at Miami, 1/15/64,
captioned "LEGIO) RAGUA", wherein information was reported
originating with{RENE SIERRA, as furnished to CIA, to the
effect that SIERRA participated in two boat trips to Cuba. y
On the second trip, the mission failed because (FNU) MOLINA
took a boat radio and called RAUL CASTRO, informing -CASTRO
of the proposed mission, when they.were about two mjles. from

the Cuban coast [ayy Obraraatg pa

As indicated in this report, (FNU) MOLINA has been
| identified with the subject of this imestigation. The
| Bureau may desire to consolidate its file on (FNU)MOLINA
. \with this case. The file on (FNU) MOLINA in the Miami
\Office (105-8604). is being consolidated, - pe

| This report contains information indicating
subject was probably on the missing flight with ALEXANDER

Cj IRWIN RORKE, JR. (subject of Bufile 97-4623), and.GEOFFREY
SULLIVAN, and. is dead. It is. deemed advisable, however,

1 eee further investigation be conducted concerning subject,
in an effort to substantiate his demise. In view of
subject's probable demisé, ifivest gation will be primarily
centered around substantiating this, rather than the pro-CASTRO
allegations. If it is détermined the subject is alive, of
course, investigation will then be conducted concerning the

| pro-CASTRO allegations regarding subject.

Cc.
(COVER PAGE)

SECP

Docld:32308718 Page 2

