JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/18/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10202-10285

HQ

92-3182-726

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS =
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

FBI
LEG, RO
DIRECTOR, FBI

01/28/1963
1

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

01/03/1995

INDEFINITE

v9.
DocId:32290009 Page 1

49


os fs
Ne
at THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

The American Embassy

\ Rome, Italy
7,
\ :
Date: January 28, 1963
To: Director, FBI (92-3182) a
pa. From: ee Rome (92-47) (P)
Subject: GUS ALEX, aka. i

AR

Re Bureau routing slip dated 12/12/62 enclosing
blind memorandum regarding ALEX and Bern airtels to Bureau
dated 12/31/62 and 1/19/63. - ;

- On 1/14/63 and 1/21/63 Brigadier GUIDO ZARA, Confi-
dential Squad, Police Headquarters, Rome, Italy (protect
identity), advised that GUS ALEX, born 4/1/16, in possession
of U. S. passport number 1569555, issued Washington, D. C.;
on 5/13/59, stayed at the Hotelzxcelsjor, Rome, on 1/5/63.
He was accompanied by ROS: IETGABPAFUEGER;~ born 12/3/38,
in Seewalch. She was in possession of German passport number
4119960; “issued by the Sermenyconsulate in Chicago, Illinois.

From 1/6/63 to 1/8/63 ALEX, accompanied by DIETGARD-
FUEGER, stayed at the Hotel Hassler, Piazza Trinita dei Monti, |
Rome, Italy. According to ZARA, ALEX and DIETGARD-FUEGER came
to Rome from Milan, Italy, and left Rome on.1/8/63 for an un-
known destination. During the time they were in Rome, ALEX and
DIETGARD-FUEGER toured the city on foot and by taxi, and. were
not, the subject of any suspect activity.

: The Rome Office has alerted the Italian National
Police and Greek police sources to Bureau's interest in subject
and mppaskes, tgr investigation in accordance with the requests
set Portyigin ¢ ferenced Bureau routing slip. To date no infor-
mation has/ibegn received from these sources. Upon receipt of
any informat: on {Gy rena and interested offices will be advised

promptly. 2g . Vz iS OsY, spec Ta
4}- Bureau : sy x “Da eT t
(3 - Foreign Liaison) CS 18 DOEST 1963 :
1 - Chicago). : :
1 - Legat, Bern (92-10) (Info) (sent direct) —.
1 = Legat, Bonn (92-5) (Info) (sent direct)

aup:hes® 2 afifes

(7) .

DocId:32290009 Page 2
