# docid-32585586

## Page 1

0-73 (Rev. 1-3074)

MESSAGE RELAY

Date _ 1/24/75

Transmit in

PLANTEXT

(plaintext or code)

the 36 1

via teletype the attached NITEL

(precedence)

_ message.

FROM:

TO:

Director, FBI (92-3171)

FIELD DISSEMAINATION

RUEADWW/ D The President

RUEADWW/

The Vice President

• Att.:

IOLAGSSASS CHIGADO

ON 11/18/85

RUEADWW/

White House Situation Room

D Att.:

RUEHOC/

RUEAIIA/

RUEKJCS/

• Secretary of State

• Director, CIA

SAMUEL

GIANCANA

• Director, Defense Intelligence Agency

• and National Indications Center

RUEACSI/

RUEBGF A/

RUEOLKN/

RUEADSS/

RUEBWJA/

RUEBWJA/

RUEBWJA/

I Department of the Army

LEGATS:

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAI IU1

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

• Department of the Air Force (AFOSI)

• Naval Investigative Service

JAN24 9/L

• U. S. Secret Service (PID)

Attorney General ( [ By messenger)

THIRTYOR

Deputy Attorney General ( By messenger)

Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division

• and Internal Security Section

RUEBWJA/

RUEOIAA/

RUEOGBA/

• Immigration & Mach

To a tone as 02-3171-2534

National Sectrity Agency (DIRNSA/NSOC (Att.: SOO»)

Federal Aviation Administratian NED

SXE:2D

6 JAN 28 1975

0:

Classification: (Classify if to other than Bured

s Office)

Assoc. Dir. -

Dop. AD Aom. -

Dop. AD In. - SUBJECT: SEE ATTACHED

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Affairs

Filos & Com. -

KMR: brm

(2)

Gen. trv. -

Ident.

Inspection.

Intell.

Laboratory

Plon. & Eval. _

Spoc. Int. -

Training -

Loga Coun W41867

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM [

1975

TELETYPE UNIT

7a164

(Text of message begins on next page.)

Cleared telephonically

9-1988

DocId: 32585586

Page 1

---

## Page 2

494444:

TenanAda

COMMUNICARIONS SECTION

183Z PM NIIEL 1/2A/75 MUD

TO H

DIRECTOR (92-3121

WR B625

FROM LEGAT, MEXICO CITY 62

TEL

SAMUEL GIANCANA, AKAS ARTAU

CONFIDNA

Crain is

Legal Woun

Telephone Kn

Director Secy

FOLLOWING INFORNATION JANUARY 23, 1975, FROM CS MEX 287•8 AL

JORGE CASTILLO, ALLEGED TO BE SUBJECT'S MEXICAN ATTORNEY,

IS BELIEVED TO HAVE GRADUATED FROM THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS•

HE AND HIS WIFE MARIA LUISA LIVE AT LAVA 135 IN THE PEDREGAL

SECTION OF MEXICO CITY. HIS WIFE IS THE SISTER OF FREDDY

CARRANZA WHO OPERATES FREDDY'S STEAK HOUSE IN MEXICO CITY AND

IN FACT, SUBJECT MAY

HAS BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH THE SUBJECI•

HAVE INVESTED IN THIS RESTAURANT. C

THE CASTILLOS HAVE FOUR CHILDREN, JORGE JR., BELIEVED

TO WORK IN HIS FATHER'S LAU FIRM, ALEJANDRO, MAURICIO AND

LORENE. LORENE IS BELIEVED TO HAVE ATTENDED SCHOOL IN CANADA

NO RECEITES MARRIED THE SOR DE A MEXICAN CABINES RAMN DEFICERS COSE IS

CASTILLO IS BELIEVED TO HAVE MET A NUMBER OF PROMINENT

AURICAD CUTS SO DING THE ROCHELLE QUERITEN OTHER ELL

END PAGE ONE

LASSIFIED BY LOO

MEANCES

ON:

APPROPATATE

FI CES

SCUTAN

TESS

ADVISED

COL

DATO

CHAESTRI

259

то hs 9 6.22

MINITE!

DADE, CO"

DocId: 32585586

Page 2

---

