# docid-32326274

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90044-10123

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

122-3019-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

01/17/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

FRANK MATULA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RADIOGRAM

v9.1

i DocId: 32326274

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECODED COPY

xx Radio

• Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Malone

Rosen

§Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

URGENT 1-17-62

2.80

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC LOS ANGELES 171852

MIKE

HARABEDIAN; FRANK MATULA, UR., ET AL. LMRA-IM.

RE BUREAU RADIOGRAI JANUARY 16, LAST. ALLEGATION PREVIOUSLY

RECEIVED INDICATES THAT MATULA, WHO IS SECRETARY AND

TREASURER OF LÔCAL 396 TEAMSTERS UNION, LOS ANGELES, HAS

BEEN RECEIVING DUES OF EMPLOYEES THROUGH THE EMPLOYER AND

UNION DUES NOT CREDITED THE MEMBER WITH PAYING HIS DUES.

ALLEGATION THAT MATULA THROUGH THIS MEANS IS EMBEZZELING

FUNDS FROIVI LOCAL 396. FRANK J. MATULA, UR., RESIDES AT

890 GRANVIA VAL MONTE, PALM SPRINGS, CALIFORNIA, AND IS ..

SECRETARY AND TREASURER OF LOCAL 396 AS WELL AS TRUSTEE OF

THE INTERNATIONAL OF THE TEAMSTERS UNION. LOS ANGELES FILES

CONTAIN VOLUMINOUS INFORMATION REGARDING

MATULA AND MATULA'S

ACTIVITIES. HE HAS PREVIOUSLY BEEN CONVICTED OF PERJURY :

IN STATE COURT FOR FURNISHING FALSE INFORMATION UNDER OATH.

MUTULA IS REPORTED TO BE ONE OF JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA'S, CLOSEST

CONTACTS ON THE WEST COAST. FROM PREVIOUS SURVEILLANCES:

CONDUCTED IT HAS BEEN ASCERTAINED THAT MATULA MEETS HOFFA

WHEN HE IS IN LOS ANGELES.

INFORMATION HAS PREVIOUSLY BEEN

RECEIVED FROM PETE PETERMAN, FORMER BUSINESS AGENT OF MATULA,

THAT MATULA WAS EMBEZZELING

UNION FUNDS UP UNTIL 1956 AT

WHICH TIME PETERMAN QUIT AND HAS NO FURTHER INFORMATION.

JOHN FELLIPOFF, A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE OF IHE LOS ANGELES.

REG, 45

22 JAN 19, 1962

113

f the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32326274

Page 2

---

