# docid-32302370

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10281-10090

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-100081-141, 143

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

CIA

CIA

DATE: 06/13/1964

'PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

GN, DRE, MIL VESSEL, SUSAN ANN, CREW, ACA, MIL ACT,

FINANCES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC 2 MEMO, LHM

19.1

DocId: 32302370

Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

OFTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-108

MAY 1062 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-100081}

FROM

SAC, MIAMI

(105-1360) (0)

DATE:

JUL

1304

ALL INFORMATINN PONTAINES

HEREIN IS UNCL

SIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

SUBJECT:

-DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

(DRE) (REVOLUTIONARY STUDENT DIRECTORADE HAS NO

IS - CUBA

NM

ONL TO

REL

IN TAIS.20

URMATION

UMENT

6mB

9-30-97

ReBulet to J. WALTER YEAGLEY, Assistant

Attorney General, dated 6-19-64, referring to the

content of a CIA Intelligence Information Cable,

dated 6-13-64, captioned

Susan Ann,

"Departure of the M/V

Operated by the Directorio: Revolucionario

Estudianti1"

The same CIA Cable, dated 6-12-64,

was received at Miami from the local office of CIA.

@(4)

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies of

LHM, dated and captioned as above.

Dissemination of the

IHM is being made locally by the Miami Office to the

following agencies:

- U. S. Border Patrol, Miami

1

U. S. Customs, Miami

-

U. S. Customs, Region II

- INS, Miami

- ONI, Miami

7

G-2, Ft. McPherson, Ga.

= OST, Robins APB, GEOLASSIIED BY5668 S10/KSR

1 - CIA, Miami

" SPYMACIGAT 101147 ofrice of coordinator of cuban Affairs:

Declassity

DUR JFK) JFDepartment or state, Miami

The enclosed IHM is classified Secret inasmuch

as

'it contains information from both CIA and U. S. Customs,

3 Copies XERURCi

Bureau (Enc .Q) (REC 34

1-Miami

JJO/al

151021-143

(3) 269

ISDI INS/DIA

1. JUL 8 1964

Copy to: ClA/State/t kustoms

-

by ronting sup for inio.

Date...

Efface, stati

867000964

118

KATAN

SEXET

DocId: 32302370 Page 2

---

## Page 3

}

MM 105-1360

Miami, which is classified Secret.

MM T-1 IS RAMON MACHADO, who furnished information

on 6-12-64, to CHRIS. LAWRENCE, Army Operational Survey Unit

at Miami.

MACHADO is in the employ of the Army and has,

until his recent resignation, been a radio operator for

the

DRE.

MM T-2 is CIA Informatic

cable reierred to in

the reference of this letter.

(u)

MM T-3 is PSI-UD ANGEL

FELIX YERGO, a Cuban exile

who had been residing in the Dominican Republic.

on 6-18-64, JOSEPH VIDAL, CIA, Miami, was contacted

to determine if CIA had an operational interest in the DRE

action described in the CIA Information Cable dated 6-12-64.

It was pointed out to Mr. VIDAL that by letter dated

0-3-04, U.

S. Customs, Miami, had advised of the "Control

Departure"

of the motor vessel "Susan Ann" from Miami for

the Dominican Republic.

Mr.. VIDAL stated that CIA had no:

interest in the DRE operation described in the Information

Cable and

that "Control Departure"

did not mean that CIA

was directing the departure.

on 6-18-64, Mr. STANLEY

SCHACHTER Of U. S. Customs,

Miami, stated Mr. VIDAL had contacted him to clarify the

meaning of "Control Departure" and Mr. SCHACHTER agreed that

it was a routine inspection of a departing vessel and did

not infer that there was a U. S. Government operational

interest.

He stated the U. S. Customs letter of 6-3-64,

advising of the departure of the "Susan Ann" from Miami

was classified Secret because it reflected

the issuance

of re-entry permits to the Cuban exiles on the authority

of the Office of the Coordinator of Cuban Affairs at Miami.

Mr. SCHACHTER stated that he had previously informed Mr.

VIDAL that the movement of the "Susan Ann" and its crew

did not involve the military action against Soviet or

2

SERACT

DocId: 32302370

Page 3

---

