4 —_ 7 ———

af ° .

FD-36 Res §27i3-56)
2 0 §

FBI

3 : : Date: February 11, 1965

(Type in plain text or code).

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

gc To: Director, FBI (92-3182)

From: Legat, Paris (92-4) (P)

Subject: GUS ALEX, aka
Va AR

Re Paris cable 2/1/65.

On February 10, 1965, Mr. CLAUDE ROBERT, of the
Police Judiciaire (Criminal Police), Surete Nationale, at
Nice, France,,advised that investigation in, Nice revealed
that sv BR, also known as DIETGARD, ER, is unknown
at 177 Promenade des Anglais, Nice.'. This was the address
reportedly furnished by FUEGER at the.time she departed from
the Hotel Bristol, Paris, on January 17 or 18, 1965.

FHERESE | oseeny ISDIER

ROBERT advised that’ the possessor of French identity
card #RZ45437, which was the card allegedly furnished by the
\ subject for identification at the Bristol Hotel, was issued
OM August 12, 1961 to THERESE JOSEPHINE GARELLI

November 11,1: -Nige, , ivorced £fon GOs ISDIER.... She LY

AN \ resides at 177 Promen nade® dee Anglais, Nise ,.2 a she still:
N possesses her card. “She “has no “explanation ‘on for the fact that
3 the hotel reported this French identity card number as being
ny { in the possession of FUEGER. She does not know FUEGER or GUS

ALEX. Miss GARELLI visited the United States once in May 1964
at which time she visited Mr. and Mrs. BALABAN, the proprietor
of "Paramount" in New York City.

5 - Bureau (1 = Liaison).(1 = Chicago, 92-373) 9 |
rai 1 ~ Legat, Born (92-10) (direct) (info) > G31 Ed- at
x

1 - Paris eee : :
NWP:43 23. j Qy: B FEB 16 1965 a

sy
Me

(7)
GC ypaery
7 Ba. 3

x)
oved®. pabenataaad Sent im M Per
FEB Z vec 19 Sbecial Agent in Charge

Docld:32556625 Page 1


Paris 92-4

Further inquiry is being conducted by the French
police and any pertinent information received will be
furnished to the Bureau.

L a gpl 7

Docld:32556625 Page 2
