JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

6/11/201

: Ageney Information
} AGENCY: FBI
( RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10201-10278
i RECORD SERIES: HQ
H AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 92-2781-557
| Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI .
FROM: SAC, TP
| TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
i TITLE:
i
DATE: 06/01/1962
“PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
: LST, ASSOC, SUR
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: . 10/13/1998 i
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE f
COMMENTS :

1 yor
| pecta:32289502 Page 1

26


did (Rev. 12-13-86) _ ae ‘| OD facia
a 7 Ts
ee 2 a)

CF’BI
wey
v7} Date: 6/1/62

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL
(Priority or Method of Mailing)
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM: SAC, TAMPA (92-1) @ |
ee JR. aka ™ pe

AR a
oO: Tampa

WEEKLY AIRTEL SUMMARY

Re Miami and Tampa airtels dated 5/25/62.
2 For the information of the Miami Office, FRANK te
RAGANO mentioned in referenced airtel is and has been
subject's attorney.

On. 5/25/62, MARIO CESAR CAPAZ, PCI (protect), advised ,.
subject has not been observed at the Columbia Restaurant.
‘
: .On 5/27/62, DOMINICK LA ROCA, PCI (protect),
advised the Tampa Office at 2:24 p.m. that subject and
JIMMY LONGO appeared at the Columbia Restaurant on such
date.

On 5/27/62, no new vehicles were observed at f A
subjec t's residence except it was noted AUGUST PANIELLO ‘
was now probably in possession of a new 1962 Ford Fairlane

500 bearing 1962 Florida license 3-39096.

Contact has been maintained with cS TP 51-C,
however, the only information obtained was on Ve O7

72 -S7SL

ef ee

4962 |

REQ.
We was Aaa qa JUN 2

Sent M Per

“Special Agent in Charge

| DocTa:32289502 Page 2


TP 92-1

This source reported that someone at 2505 Bristol Ave.,
Tampa, had been invited to attend a wedding of SIDONIA
GRACE SMITH, daughter of a Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD W. SMITH
to PHILLIP JOSEPH VALENTI, son.of Mr. and Mrs JOE F.
VALENTI on 6/9/62.

On 5/28/62, JACK DE LA LLANA, Tampa PD,
Intelligence Unit, advised he had heard from a source
that subject. was in Tampa to attend a wedding on Sunday,
5/27/62 of the "godson" of the owner of the Chatterbox
Bar, Tampa. He alsonoted Tampa primary elections were
on 5/29/62.

7 On 5/29/62, ANTHONY J, GRIMALDI, President,
Columbia Bank (protect), advised subject was at the
Columbia Restuarant at 4:00 p.m. on 5/28/62 in the
company of JAMES LONGO, SALVATORE LORENZO and FRANK
ALONSO. Source stated subject was seen by source at
8:00 a.m., 5/29/62 at subject's residence.

On 5/30/62, DOMINICK LA ROCA, PCI (protect),
reported that subject was with JIMMY LONGO at the
Columbia Restaurant at 4:45 p.m. to 5:15 p.m., 5/30/62.

At 1:50 p.m. 5/31/62, subject was observed by
SA JOHN A AMBLER at. his Tampa residence. However, no
new vehicles were observed.

Captain WILLIAM BLAND, Vice Squad, Tampa PD,
advised 5/31/62 he was aware of subject's presence in
Tampa and also stated. his sources indidate subject was
in Tampa to attend a wedding.

FISUR“Dream Bar, 2801-03 Nebraska Avenue,
5/29, 30 and 6/1/62 fails to indicate subject or his
associates other than brother, FANO, are patrons.

LEAD

MIAMI DIVISION

AT MIAMI, FLA.

Endeavor to further trace the previous ownership

2+

DocId:32289502 Page 3
