# docid-32328328

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90073-10032

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-7599-16

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/25/1967

2

DAVE YARAS

DAVID YARAS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

- CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

AT

V9.1

DocId: 32328328

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

ED-36 fier. 5-22-64)

....

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

4/25/67

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-7599)

FROM : SAC, CHICAGO (92-1684)

SUBJECT: DAVID YARAS, aka

AR

Re Bureau letter to Chicago, dated 4/13/67.

There is no current information at Chicago to indicate

DAVID YARAS has taken up any type of permanent residence here.

Chicago is unaware of any automobile currently registered to

YARAS in Illinois although he had a 1965 Oldsmobile registered

to him at 3600 Lake Shore Drive in 1966.

LEONARD YARAS, DAVID's son, lives permanently in

Apartment 901 at 3600 North Lake Shore Drive, Chicago. LEONARD

is divorced.

PCI RAY WALDEN, doorman at 3600 North Lake Shore

Drive, advised in 2/67 that Apartment 901 in the building was

by LEONARD YARAS and co-signed by DAVID YARAS for a

period of two years beginning 12/31/66.

DAVID YARAS, according

to the informant, stays in the apartment when he is in Chicago.

The source said DAVID YARAS is in Chicago at the apartment on

an infrequent basis and DAVID's wife from Miami has only been

observed there on one occasion when getting the new apartment (

in a liveable condition in 1/66.

Bureau

1

- Miami (92-1047)

1 - Chicago

Left C49

HKJ/cah

(5)

9-2847

REC-64

92-75-9916

EX-110

•AFF 26 1967

€

Approved:

Sent

_ M

Per

DocId: 32328328 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG. 92-1684

PCI WALDEN advised on 4/20/67 that DAVID YARAS has .

only been observed twice at the apartment in the last three

months and the last time was approximately one and a half

months ago.

RONALD YARAS, the other son of DAVID YARAS, iS nOW

operating Unique Import Trading, Ltd., at 1644 North Honore,

Chicago.

This was formerly operated

under the name of M&E

Sales Company and at one time was run by MANNY GREENFIELD.

On 4/21/67, PCI MANNY GREENFIELD advised that DAVID

YARAS has not been seen for a couple of months in Chicago and

only occasionally comes here.

The informant stated again that

to his knowledge DAVID YARAS has no direct connection with

Unique Import and that the operation is handled by RONALD YARAS.

On 3/23/67, BEN KAPLAN, 6521 North Sacramento, Chicago,

advised he has worked

at M&t Sales for ten years and now works

fOr RONALD YARAS at Unique Import.

KAPLAN said DAVID YARAS

has no voice in the company and it is run on a legitimate basis.

He said DAVID YARAS visits at the business occasionally, but

has not been seen for some time.

On 4/21/67, KAPLAN said he has not seen DAVID YARAS

in Chicago for several months.

On 4/20/67, PCI Mr. L.J, MATHIS, Credit Manager of

the Continental Plaza Hotel, 909 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago,

advised SA CARLTON H. WOLFARTH that DAVID YARAS does not reside

at the hotel and has no apartment leased, The informant checked

his records and showed a photo of YARAS to his security force

with negative results.

Chicago in its coverage has been unable to determine

the exact whereabouts of YARAS outside of the Chicago area

and has presumed he is in the Miami area when not in Chicago.

ot the mut

Chicago has no objection to be designated office of

origin in this investigation, but at the present time, Chicago

cannot

assure more coverage than is already maintained due to

YARAS' infrequent visits to Chicago.

There appears to be no

indication that YARAS will be in the Chicago area on a more

frequent basis than he has been in the past.

- 2 -

DocId: 32328328 Page 3

---

