JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10218-10496

HQ

92-6436-39

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:

TO

TITLE

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

FBI
SAC, NY :
DIRECTOR, FBI

12/30/1963
8

APR, NOONAN, CONNIE, MED, ASSOC, BUSS ACT, JHO,
TEAMSTERS, CRIMINAL ACT, MISUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

05/12/1998

INDEFINITE

v9
, DocId:32297220 Page 1


. FBI

aerate O

Date: 12/30/63

/ ‘Transmit the following in PLAIN TEXT
{type in plain text or code)

Via__ ASRTEL

priority or Method of Mailing)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6436)
FROMM: SAC, NEW YORK, (92-2568 )
,

SUBJECT: CORNELIUS J, NOONAN aka i *
AR

NY 3778-C* advisi that there was no activity on
11/13 and 11/24/63.

On 11/15/63, informant advised tht CONNIE NOONAN
7 and AUSTIN FURZyheld a generally non-pertinent. conversation
concerning TEDDY CLEASCN, However, at one point NOONAN remarked
that GLEASON never tells the truth anymcre when it comes to
money. There was no additional information of value obtained
on that date.

There was no pertinent activity on 11/16 to 11/18/63,--—-
inclusive. The information obtained on 11/19/63, has been
furnished to the Bureau by airtel dated 11/23/63. There was ¢
no pertinent activity from 11/20 to 12/3/63. It is noted that 4
during this period on 11/26/63, the informant advised that 4

NOONAN remarked that he had ben sick for “cen days,
On 12/4/83, NY 3778-c* furnished the following |
information:

EXTREME CAUTION SHOULD BE USED CONCERNING INFORMATION
ISHED BY THIS INFORMANT AND IF THE INFORMATION IS USED IN

reau (92-6436)
-New York { }
“str
)

or

1-New Yor
1-New York (92-1917

1-New York (137-960

1-New York eae
1-New York (92-2568) °
GPR:bfh

(10)

Approved: Na Ay
Special Agent in Charge

AY ieee Aes.
oe 1564 4 a

DocId:32297220 Page 2


NY 92-2568

Apparently FUR#Y¥'sson is -employed by a company whose employees
are represented by Local 1730 of the ILA, NY 1716-C,. who is
very familiar with Local 1730, ILA, has been alerted to determine
the identity of the company for which FUREY's son works, The
informant advised thee was no additional information receied

on that date.

There was no pertinent activity on 12/14 or 12/15/63.

on 12/16/63, informant advisal that NOONAN and GLEASON
were in NOONAN's office and NOONAN referred to an individual
who apparently is located in the headquarters of the ILA on
the nineteenth floor as a "very bad individual", This
individual apparently is seeking some cort’ of favor from
GLEASON and NOONAN and while neither are desirous of granting
this favor, they are reluctant to refuse this indiv idual because
they are afraid of him, The informant was unable to identity
this individual at this time.

Thee was no activity on 12/17/63.

On 12/18/63, the informant advised that there were
two individuals: in NOONAN's office with NOONAN and FURRY, © One
of these individuals was possibly named "Red" GIBSON(ph).
GIBSON and the other unknown individual had been dscharged
from a trucking company because they wre allegedly caught
pilfering from one of the cartons on the platform of the
trucking company.

NOONAN and FURRY discussed with these individuals the
fact that the security guard at this trucking company had
apparently surprised GIBSON and the other unknown individual
in the act of pilfering. The guard had orfered them to put
pack the pilfered objects and went looking fur a Mr. WALSH



NY 92-2563

py PCI MARIO SILVESTRI who is employed at this trucking company.
x% has been further determined that because of the discharge of
GIBSON and the unknown subject, the Continental Trucking Co.
has been struck by Local 1730, ILA.

There was no activity’ from 12/19 to 12/29/63.

SEE SESSLER EERE EERE eReeReeeEEPEEERERE Eee epee
: A copy of this airtel is being designated for 15-0
insofar as this matter is still being considered by the USA's
office, EDNY for prosecution.

A copy of this airtel plus a copy of the 12/7/62
airtel which furnished information. concerning the obtaining of
Christmas presents by NOONAN, FURS“ and GLEASON is being furnished
for 122-NEW, It is felt that the information furnished in the
12/7/62 airtel plus the information furnished in the irs tant

t airtel indicates a pattern of long stending by NOONAN, FUREY ead.
GLEASON of taking Christmas presents from employers whose
employees are represented by Local 1380. © :

The NYO will attempt to properly evaluate information

{ furnished by NY 3778-C* and the Bure will be kent immediately
advised of all pertinent activities concerning tnis informant.

DoclId:32297220 Page 4

