# docid-32310726

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10307-10030

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-634

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/24/1962

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, TRA, ASSOC, MEETING, BUSS ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

19.1

DocId: 32310726

Page 1

300

---

## Page 2

-: 4-41 (Rev. 6-2-61)

DECODED COPY

Radio

Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conradi-

DeL garc

Evan's®

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram _

Gandy

URGEN

2-29-62

TO bIRECTOR AND SAC MIAMI

11:25 PM

JEG

FROM SAC

CHICAGO 2504414

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA, ARO REBUTEL TODAY. GLADYS EBLE,

DATE 4-20•84 BYSPROELCOL

CHICAGO PCI CLAIMS POSITIVELY OBSERVED GIANCANA AT ARMORY

LOUNGE LATE EVENING OF FEBRUARY 22 AND 236957

CG 6486 = C:

REPORTED GIANCANA IN CONFERENCE EVENING OF FEBRUARY 23 LAST

WITH PERSON POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH LOU BRADY, CLEVELAND AND

MIAMI HOODLUM• CONVERSATION RELATED TO PROPOSED NINE AND

ONE HALF MILLION DOLLAR HOTEL DEAL WHICH IS SCHEDULED FOR

COMPLETION JUNE 1963 BRADY TO TAKE DRAWINGS, PLANS AND

SPECIFICATIONS TO MIAMI OVER WEEKEND AND CONFER WITH MEMBER

OF TAYLOR CONSTRUCTION CO., WHO HAS AGREED TO HANDLE JOB.

EXACT SITE OF PROPOSED HOTEL NOT YET KNOWN, POSSIBLY RENO,

NEVADA 'AREA.

INASMUCH INCOME FROM WINTER SPORTS MENTIONED.

GIANCANA ADVISED BRADY HE IS LEAVING MONDAY FOR FEW DAYS,

DEFINITELY NOT LONG STAY. DID NOT INDICATE DESTINATION.

SUGGEST MIAMI BE ALERT FOR ARRIVAL GIANCANA THAT DATE.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED::

2-25-62

12:37 AM

tell 99-31229634

FEB 26 1962

MAR I 1962

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32310726

Page 2

---

