JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9
Docld:32296701 Page 1

Agency Information

FBI
124-10217-10477

HQ

105-114543-5

5/21/201

Document Information

FBI
SAC, SJ
DIRECTOR, FBI

11/28/1962
i

JURE, LEADERSHIP, OPINION, CUBAN EXILES

PAPER, TEXTUAE DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

- 04/21/1998

INDEFINITE

we


aa T
| rad ‘OPTIONAL FORM.
¢ ‘so10=104~0

To: DIRECTOR; FBI Bt, (205-114545) pare; 12/28/62
nie FIT INFORMATION CONTAINED
Peo SACS SANJUAN (105-6242) (P) HERE I LASSIFIED

worvil
Gee -, peimenli rm) Goan OT,
*. : - WED 00: q 3. ufs wig *

E " RESJ letter and letterhead memorandum to (em).
the Bureau, 10/10/62.

PSI JERONIMO ESTEVE} JR; (protect); characterized
as reliable, advised on 10/11/62; he recently made a eae
trip to Chicago, Washington, D¢Ciij and Miami in connection }
with his business and Cuban exile activities. During |
this, rip he talked with numerous Cuban exiles, .including
MIROW NAF in Washington, Dich and Miami, Florida’.

Co exéeption, all contacted-were strongly against

3 leader of JURE} and stated they felt that //
RAY RAY ist jodng more harn.to the Cuban cause than goods
also stated no one will support him or his group. They
also stated that the JURE will fail before it ‘ever get!
started because of widespread feeling against RAY and
everything he stands /fors (a

svGd

FIED BY

DECLASSE.

ORG AMIE As 20 7

SJO failed to reveal any activity on the part of the
- JURE in Puerto Rico since its beginning at Juana Diaz
and Ponce; Puerto Rico, 9/15 and 16, ie Cas ai

\ Information copies of this letter are peing
| i furnished Chicago, Miami, and New York in view of their
Hi GHinterest in this matter. :

o.
re” 2 San Juan will follow and Repore the activity
| 2 0f ebke JURE'S ; 2
 -Sh
g 33
| =

| Docld:32296701 Page 2

-
Periodic contact: with” ‘Guban sources Fot-tne ss Ye

D COPY FU

eronaaae

UNRFCORD!
