# docid-32304169

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10285-10181

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 03/30/1973

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM, CARD, ENV

v9.1

DocId: 32304169

3

Page 1

---

## Page 2

--5

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

•1174 LO.

A FPMR (130ER),101-1

UNITED STATES

VERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

CONFIENTIAL

3/30/73.

FROM

: SAC

SAS 105-3803) JERUC(5)

AIT. INTORMATION CONTAINED

IRRET IS UNCLASSTI LED EXCEPS

WHERE SHOWN OTEERWISEO

SUBJECT:

BORIS "PETROVICH MIROUNOVI

IS - R (GROUP)

(S)

CONFIDENTIAL MATERIAL, ATTACHED

00: WEO

Re WFO letter to Bureau captioned as above dated

2/8/73.U

enclosed of the bureau are six copies of an tat

andlone travel card pertaining to the above captioned subject le

Two copies of

àn LHM are being enclosed for WrO.

The confidential source mentioned in LHM

knowledgeable source in a position to furnish such information

andwho is familiar with foreign visitors to the Dallas, Texas

area. The above knowledgeable

source was contacted by SA

JAMES W. ANDERTON on 3/5/736

In view of information set out in enclosed LHM,

Dallas: is conducting no further investigation, UACB. U

CIA (2) 4/24/73

State

16855

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668510/66

Classilled

Excompt fros

Date of Decle

Caterory.

REASON:

1.5 (ed)

ricable:

AGEN

CES

ROPRIATE.

9

3/6/28

DECLASSIFY ON: X (C6)

(TERS' 1/5/97

DUCE DIN

REC 27.

T05-2114-765)

N6B S2

568 OLGATHEDIN

CIA HAS SOAP RON ANGZ

DECLASSIF

SANDYER

•13

IN THIS DOCUMENT

2

< 9-1149

2

- Da as 51 4200-36032(5)

(RM)(S)

105-28422rave.

control (SONi DENTIAL

- USSR).

ENCLOSURE ONE

Has Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

SECRET

0010-100 066-36 Y

DocId: 32304169

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIRENTIAL

SECREE

NONSYMBOL SOURCE ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

The confidential source mentioned above is

Mrs: LORINNE EMERY, Chairman

Dallas Committee for Foreign

Visitors (DCFV), Dallas, Texas.

CONFILENTIAL

- 2 -

ONUM

DocId:32304169

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIALi

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ICIES

PRIATE

HI CBS

UTING

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dallas, Texas

March 30, 1973

CONFIKENTIAL

SECRET

BRIAL ATTACHED

ipheld

118.

cations

class

6855

OI

CONFI

DENTIAL, MA

BORIS PETROVICH MIROUNOV (G)

ALT INFOROLLTION CONTAINED

HERET IS UNODASSIDIED EXCEPT

WHELIC SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Xon March 5, 1973, a

confidential source advised

thatBoris Petrovich Mirounov arrived at love Field, Dallas,

from Washington, D.C

The above confidential source

identified (Mirounov as the Laboratory Chief of Institute of

Thermophysics of Siberian Section of USSR Academy of

SciencesS The above confidential source stated that the

specific reason for Mirounov's Visit to Dallas, Texas, was

to visit DI. Roy Simpson, Professor of Science at Southern

Methodist-UniversitysMU, Dallas, Texas, and that while ir

Dallas, Texas, Mirounov was entertained by various members of

the Dallas Committee for Foreign Visitors, (DCFV)

DiC

D.E. MooRE

DECLASSIFICATION

221 11652

iN

The above confidential source stated that on January 26,

1973, upon his arrival at Love Field, Mirounov was met by

William Odum, who is a successful architect and a city planner

for the city of Dallas, tex.

The above confidential

source stated that Mirounov was entertained on

January 26, 1973,

and furnished lodging by William Odum (supra)

*The above confidential source stated

that on January 27,

by 3. and More intertained tea luncha which was hosted

¿Barbeque.

Barbeqy 28, he 3, be contes ho teace a techeon sponsored

by ur. and Mrs. Ilya Mamantov and the source noted that

Mamantov is Professor of the Russian Länguage at Southern

17 Methodist University (SMU), Dallas, Jexas.

Mirounoy the above source stated that on January 29, 1973,

during the entire day, was with Dr. Roy Simpson,

Professor of Science, SMU, where they attended a conference

The above contidential sourc

Co

scientific matters of mutual interest

• BY.

CLASSIEIED

EXEMPT PROM

OF

•CATECC

ATICALLY

05

37844

1S)

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

SCHEDULE

EXEMPTIO

of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it ang

dias contents

your agency.

Allere not to be distributed outside

OADR

SOLOSURE

SECRET

[CONFIDENTIAL

17/725-8928

08180

DocId: 32304169

Page 4

---

## Page 5

CONFIDENTTAL!

BORIS PETROVICH MIROUNOV (S)

SECRET

The above confidential

source stated that MIROUNOVs)

departed Dallas, Texas,

on January 30, 1973, by American

Airlines en route to Chicago, Illinois, and

that during his

members of the

matters of a scientific nature.

-hat during his stay in Dallas,

Texas, rosurf did not

engage in any suspicious or subversive activities.

-2*

CONTIGNITAL SECRET

DocId: 32304169

Page

---

