# docid_32287849

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10198-10125

HQ

92-3171-1899

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: ROEMER, WILLIAM F. JR.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 09/27/1966

'PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

SGI, SURVEILLANCE, ASSOC, MCGUIRE, PHYLLIS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792

DocId: 32287849

161

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• 9-17-65)

!

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA,

aka

DATE

9/27/66

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/14 - 9/19/66

REPORT MADE BY

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

REFERENCE: RepUrthiC SO WELLIAM F. ROENER, JR. dated 6/21/66,

Chicago!

-P-

TYPED B'

Irs

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU (2)

Enclosed for the Bureau are two copies of letterhead

memorandum setting

forth characterization of informants utilized

in instant report. (;

Case has been:

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

et one year lX Yes

(3

-

Bureau

(92-3171) (Enets. g)

44184 Spskis

• No; Pending prosecution over six months

Yes: & No

SPECIAL AGEN

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW.

92-3171-1899 200-1

1 - USA, Chicago

3

1950

2 - Chicago (92-349)

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How F7d.,

By

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

AAG, Criminal Division,

Organized Crime and Racketcering

Sectic, Accm_

Notations

SING. A

NW 45792 DocId: 32287849 Page 2

---

## Page 3

..

CG 92-349

LEAD

CHICAGO

report the

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.

activities

Ot GLANCANA. ( continue to follow and

INFORMANTS

Source

T-1

PCI

OTHER 4

T-2,

CG 6855-C-TE:

T-3,

CG 6621-C

T-4,

PCI ARTHUR MILLER

T-5,

MICHAEL CARROLL,

Investigator,

District Attorney's

Office,

Denver, Colorado

T- 6,

CG 6690-C-TE

T-7,

CG 6533-C

T-8,

MI 623 - C-TE

Date of Contact and

Contacting Agent

On numerous occasions during

June, July, August, and

September, to SA WILLIAM

F. ROEMER, JR.

7/18/66, to SA RUSSELL R

GIRSCH

9/7/66,

to

SA JOHN R. BASSETT

9/9/66, to

SA EUGENE I. SATHER

8/17/66, to

SAs of Denver Office

6/28/66, to

SA LEENARD A. WOLF

6/5/66, 6/14/66, to

SA VINCENT L. INSERRA and

MAX R. FRITSCHEL

6/16/66,

to

SAs of Milwaukee Office.

- B*

COVER PAGE

10108- 10198

NW 45792 DocId: 32287849 Page 3

---

## Page 4

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

92-349

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Chicago, Illinois

September 27, 1966

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Reference is made to report of special Agent Willlar

F. Roemer, Jr. dated

and captioned as above.U,

CHARACTERIZATION OF INFORMANTS

Chicago T-i is an individual who is in a position

to observe the residence

almost continuous basis. (U Giancana on what amounts to an

Chicago T-2 is a close associate of a

top leader

of organized crime in the Chicago area. (V)

Chicago T-3 is

• an associate.

organized crime in the Chicago area (UJo* some members of

Chicago T-4 is an indivaual, who by reason of his

employment,

is in a position to observe occurances in the

vicinity of Giancana's residence in Oak Park, Illinois.(U

Chicago T-5 is

an individual closely associated

with Phyllis Mc Guire. (U

Chicago T-6 is an individual associated

members of organized crime in the Chicago area.

dwith some

Chicago T-T is an individual who is in a position

to observe occurances on almost a continuous basis at the

former headquarters of Giancana, now known as Giannotti's

Restaurant and Lounge. (U)

DA:

c/a4/84 5e51288/ u

COPIES DESTROYRA

This document contains neither recommendations

893 MAY 24. 1972pR conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the

FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents.

are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 45792 DocId: 32287849 Page 4

---

## Page 5

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

92-349

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Chicago, Illinois

September 27, 1966

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

ANTI-RACKETEERING

• Roemer, Jr. dated and captioned as above.(U)

are once stade

Reference is made to report of Special Agent Willian

CHARACTERIZATION OF INFORMANTS

Chicago T-1 is an individual who is in a position

to observe the residence of Giancana on what amounts to an

almost continuous basis. (v)

Chicago T-2 is a close associate of a top leader

of organized crime in the Chicago area. (U)

Chicago T-3 is an associate of some members o1

organized crime in the Chicago area.(U,

Chicago T-4 is an indivdual, who by reason of his

employment, is in a position to observe occurances in the

vicinity of Giancana's residence in Oak Park, Illinois.(U)

Chicago T-5 is an individual closely associated

with Phyllis Me Guire. (v)

Chicago T-6 is an individual

associated

members of organized crime in the Chicago area.(a) with some

Chicago T-7 is an individual who is in a position

to observe occurances on almost a continuous basis at the

former headquarters of Giancana, now known as Giannotti's

Restaurant and Lounge. (U)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the

FBI and is. leaned to your agency; it and its contents

are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 45792 DocId: 32287849 Page 5

---

