# docid-32303125

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10283-10137

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2918-1ST NR 99

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

SAC, PG

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/07/1961

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

SMO, GM, ASSOC, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS :' 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32303125

Page 1

---

## Page 2

•FEDERAL BUREAU OF NAESTIGATION

U.S, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

OMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG 6: 1961

TELETYPE

Mr.

Tolson

Vr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr.:

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

Conrad.

Mr. DeLoach

Mr.

Evans

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr. Tayell

Mr. Trotter-

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy.

URGENT 8-7-61 P 4-25 PM NP

TO, DIRECTOR, FBI 92-2914-092-2918 ANDSAG, MIAMS-92-155

FROM, SAC, PITTSBURGH : 92-236--92-228

GARBIEL MANNARINO, ALSO KNOWN AS, AR

SAMUEL MANVARINO, ALSO

KNOWN AS, AR• PG SIX ONE FIVE DASHIC ADVISED THAT ON THE EVENING

OF AUGUST FIVE LAST, VICTOR STANZIANO AND WILLIE SAMS, BOTH

OF NEW KENSINGTON, PAD, AGREED THAT SAMS WOULD GO TO GREATER:

PITTSBURGH /AIRPORT THAT EVENING TO PICK UP SAM MANNARINO WHO

WAS ARRIVING FROM MIAMI, FLORIDA, ACCOMPANIED BY AN UNIDENTIFIED

MAN: STANZIANO, STATED THAT THE MANNARINOS ARE CONTROLLED

IN SOME RESPECTS BY QUOTE SOME BIG GUYS UPSTAIRS. UNQUOTE,

FOR EXAMPLE, HE POINTED OUT THAT IN NINETEEN SIXTY, THE

MANNAR INOS DECAME ANGRY AT A NEW KENSINGTON- CONTRACTOR NAMED

MARTIN MURIN,.

WHO HAD FRONTED, SOME OF THEIR LEGITIMATE

BUSINESS HOLDINGS AND WHO BROKE AWAY FROM THEM AFTER A DISPUTE.

THE MANNARINOS MADE ARRANGEMENTS FOR A QUOTE TORPEDO UNQUOTE

FROM SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA, TO QUOTE TAKE CARE OF UNQUOTE

MURIN HOWEVER, FOR SOME REASON, QUOTE THE BIG GUYS UNQUOTE

ORIGINAL FILED IN

66 AUG 111981

NOT RECORDED

98 TAUG

9. 196k

DocId: 32303125 Page 2

---

