JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90078-10032
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: — 105-120874-18
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: DL
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: — 10/11/1965
PAGES: 24
SUBJECTS :
OSVALDO AURELIO PINO PINO
DOCUMENT TYPE: = PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 07/07/1998
OPENING CRITERIA INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : RPT

v9.
Docld:32328723 Page 1


De (Rey. $-1-50)

FEDERA.. BUREAU OF INV. ..STIGATION

REPOR. ING OFFICE ‘OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE ] INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD ee
DALLAS DALLAS 10-11-65 6/16 - 9/22/65
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY ‘TYPED BY
GERALD LEWIS GEARY bim
OSVALDO AURELIO PINOSPINO, aka CHARACTER OF CASE a
IS - CUBA;

RA — CUBA

ae REFERENCE: Dallas letter ud Bureau, 6-16-65,

(eS CIA HAS Hi
Ngo LEADS a
Ov iN Tris BOLUMEN ee

0-47
san guan KP /0- ig $i Je PAP
AT SAN JUAN, PUERTO RIcOWFK)

. Will interview MRS. EDUVIGES GONZALES DE ORLANDO
and her husband, Loiza 2025'Santurce, regarding their know-
ledge- of OSVALDO AURELIO PINO-PINO's background, with emphasis
on-his. activities following the Communist take-over of Cuba,
in particular his possible connections with G-2 operations
in that Government. Will also obtain from them the names

and addresses of individuals residing outside of Cuba who
may have knowledge of the subject or his family,

WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE ssgn oes of uae |g
Lo oN Ef)

5 Sree
APPROVED EGIAL AGENT DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

Series MADE Ag
een (405-120874) (RM)
I-INS, Dallas (A12912449) (RM)

2-San Juan (105-7477) (RM)

2-WFO (105-61451) (RM)
2-Dallas (105-1579) b

7TH | )poTaTIONS:

orf

a
FET AE



*
DL 105-1579

By separate communication, the Bureau is being JJ
requested to search its records regarding the ECLA and

also conduct other agency checks regarding this organi-
zation,

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

DL T-1 is PSI MANUEL RODRIGUEZ ORCARBERRO~ . gu
Located DL 134-332A-6 and 8

- C# =
COVER. PAGE
DocId: 32328723 Page 3


LO |

o

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVL.STIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE | OFFICE OF ORIGIN

| pare INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

DALLA | DALLAS | MO-4l-c5 6/18 = 4/22/65
fife OF CASE Stora femme Manele TRE Bh
| GERALD LEWIS GEARY |_bfm

OSVALDO AURLLIO PINO-PiKO, aka

CHARACTER OF CASE

iS - CUBA;
BA = CUBA

REFERENCE: Uailas letter to Bureau, t-1d-65,

-Pp-

LEADS ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
SAN JUAN HERE! aN
SAN JUAN pat

AT_SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO

Will interview MRS. EDUVIGES GONZALES DE ORLANDO
and her husband, Loiza 2025 Santurce, regarding their kmow-
ledge of OSVALDO AURELIO PINCG-PINO's background, with emphasis
on his activities following the Communist take-over of Cuba,
in particular his possible connections with G-2 operations
in that Government. W111 also obtain from them the sams
and addresses of individuals residing outside of Cuba who
may have knowledge of the subject or his family.

pea ‘SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE (DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

copies WADED |
“$rBureau (105-120874) (BM)
1-1NS, Dallas (412912449) (2x)
2-San Juan (105~7477) (RM) |
|

2-KFO (105-61461) (RM)
2-Dallas (105-1579)

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT | NOTATIONS:

REQUEST REC

DATE Fwo.

HOW FWwo. .

ey...

U.S. covennwent painting orrice — 10—76924-1

Docld:32328723 Page 4


a a
BL 108-1579 °°

By separate communication, the Bureau is being
requested to search fits records regarding the ECLA and.
eres conduct. other agency checks regarding this organi-=
gation, ae

EDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

BL T-1 is PSI MANUEL RODRIGUEZ CRCARBERERS
Located DL 134-332A-6 and &

ao CF a
COVER PAGE
Docld: 32328723 Page 5

