AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-10195-10029

HQ

92-3171-IST NR 1369

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

“ DATE:
“PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :

* RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1
Docld:32286253 Page 1

Document Information

FBI
SAC, LA
DIRECTOR, FBI

03/23/1964
4

SGI, INTV, LITBERG, MORRIS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

03/27/1998

INDEFINITE,

73


‘OPTIONAL FORM No. 10 7 5010-106-05

+ MAY 1982 EDITION
‘GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOFRE A i
Memorand ©
eee emoranuum .
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (137-8185) Dae:
' - MAR 23 1964 ;
FROM: SAC, LOS. ANGELES (137-2861) ,
' ‘ a
SUBJECT: ~ LA 44110-C-TE i fe

TOP ECHELON. CRIMINAL
INFORMANT. PROGRAM

Enclosed herewith for Miami are ten copies of an
FD 302 reflecting interview of MORRIS LITBERG, aka, Lee Tuttle,
in the case captioned CHARLES WILLIAM BRAY; FELIX ANTHONY
ALDERISIO, aka.; ET AL. ITAR - EXTORTION; ITSP; MF (Accounting
and Freud Section). 00: Miami. This FD 302-sets forth
LITBERG's advising that he declined to discuss ALDERISIO or
testify in any case involving ALDERISIO for fear of his life ee
as well as that of his family. This FD 302 is being furnished
Miami for inclusion in a report in order that Departmental
Attorney PELOQUIN will be so advised. Since PELOQUIN has
indicated a desire to subpoena LITBERG for Miami prosecution

RS

of ALDERISIO, it is hoped this will satisfy PELOQUIN and he \t i
will not subpoena ETRE. | ND i
i By. |
Pectiia
5}Bureau (RM) Bw |
(ae-= 92-3171) SAl (a
1 - 92-6140) (MANDEL SKAR f Nm |
7 -06742) (FELIX ALDERISIO) i
5-Chicago (137-4551) (RM) |
1 - 92-349) (SAM GIANCANA ~ 4
L - 9e-lu eas SKAR gio
7-19740 Cara ALDERISIO) saa
3-H, (a (Be 10) ALDERISIO) A (pao |
1 - 87-1 _ a i
a-Sos Angeles ( Gel | F. “SED a |
1 - 92-135)(SAM GIANCANA a
1- om 173) FELIX AEpERTAYO) 198 har 26 1964 5
1 - 92-1381) (MANDEL SKAR) 3
1 - 92-476)(FRED SICA) . areata coe |
be Me Car aa |
orgteze 7a1gKe j (Renate WILLIAM ‘ero Lo
ige feat! Z ; S
j (21) : ut HEREIN {S UNCLAS NY fe
iy a\ DAT that ae
: 5 APRT 1964

Docld:32286253 Page 2


. O EB O
LA 137-2861 =

LA 4410-C-TE was interviewed on 3/11/64 by SAs
GEORGE E, BLAND and JAMES F, BRENT, and advised as follows: Vv

He left Los Angeles with his wife on 1/7/64, and
drove straight through to Chicago, which departure was
caused by information he received concerning a judgement about
to be rendered against his brother for $3,300.00 which actually
was the responsibility of the informant.

When he arrived at Chicego, he contacted his attorney
MIKE KACHIGIAN in regard to this matter. In conversation
with his attorney he was told by him as well as another
attorney in the same office, MIKE LEVIN, that a contract was
out for informant and neither attorney expected to see him
alive when he appeared in their office. According to LEVIN,
he heard from an someone at a party that a contract was out
to kill informant. uv

During informant's stay in Chicago, from shortly i
after 1/7/64, to shortly before his arrival back in Los t
Angeles on 3/5/64, he learned the following: Uv

From several sources he considers knowledgeable, :
he was told that the victim (CHARLES WILLIAM BRAY) in the !
Miami prosecution of ALDERISIO has been straightened out and |
that they have got to him and he will not stand up for the
government and testify. U

Also that SAM GIANCANA is no longer the boss in
Chicago but has stepped aside and "MILWAUKEE PHIL" ALDERISIO
has taken over from GIANCANA as the boss. Informant con-
siders the sources of the above information to be knowledgeable. v i

In order to handle his brother's case, informant
found it necessary to be in the Cook County Clerk's Office
as well as the State Attorney's Office and commented that no !
one will check a record or do..anything for you without $2.00 :
being paid to them. In this instance, informant said he was i
handing out five and ten-dollars and sometimes more to
numerous people in order to get the necessary records. In
this regard, he talked to a Deputy Sheriff named SAMUEL PEVIN
who serves subpoenas and who recently had a heart attack.
FEVIN was one of the people who said that "they" had gotten
to BRAY in Miami. PEVIN was selling Papermate or Scripto,

Docld:32286253 Page 3


but believed to be Papermate, ball point pens that retail for
$1.98 for 4o¢ a piece and he had hundreds of then. PEVIN ‘
explained that there were 350,000 such pens stolen from a
trailer and they are being sold all.over Chicago for 30¢ and
hog a piece. PEVIN also advised informant that he had
stolen Admiral portable television sets for $40.00 a piece

as well gs stolen Norelco electric. shavers for a very good
price. q

LA ‘137-2861

In regard to MANNY SKAR, informant said that ROCKY
DE STEFANO is behind SKAR and they’ got $300,000 net from the sale of
Sahara.Inn North, Chicago. Also that they want to buy back :
the Sahara Inn that. they sold to GENE AUTRY and, according
to informant, this may possibly explain the bombings of the
Sahara. Jf : :

Also; DON. JO MEDLEVINE is close to SKAR and is also
believed by informant to be fronting for DE STEFANO. MEDLEVINE
claims to have lost: $60,000 of his own money “in the Chez Paris
that recently closed in-Chicago; however, informant does not
believe MEDLEVINE lost anything since they. probably. were’
stealing off the top. Informant understands that ‘MEDLEVINE’
is coming back: to Los’ Angeles to get into another operation. U/

Informant was asked if he knew DENNIS STEIN, who
is known to have been recently closely associated with SKAR
in Los Angeles. Informant recalled a DANNY.STEIN, who was an |
auctioneer from New York who may be identical since his -
deScription is .similar. U ee

- In regard to the Riviera Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada,
it is informant's. understanding that the Chicago. outfit owns
this hotel. Informant produced a card reflecting the name i
of FRED FRIEDMAN whom he described as former manager at the -
Riviera Hotel and: was kicked out broke some time ago, and
came to him about.a year ago looking for a job in the vend-
ing machine business. At that time, FRIEDMAN's Los Angeles
Phone number was WE.1-9090.. Informant. believes that FRIEDMAN,
who. he knows deeply resents his treatment by the hotel :
owners, might talk about the operation of the Riviera Hotel. Jv

Informant also mentioned that he has seen JACK FOX

(PCI) and-he is real sick. FOX's son BILLY, informant under-"
stands, is tied up with FRED SICA, U
3

Docld:32286253 Page 4


. é | a Cy
LA 137-2861 - nn

Informant also showed a card of the Basin Street
West in Scottsdale, Arizona, with the name of H. B. ROTHBARD,
phone 947-4221, and on the reverse side the name written in
ink LAWRENCE ROTHBARD, PO 1-6024: Informant explained that
H. B. ROTHBARD is fronting for HARRY WEISS from Chicago, who
is a MURRAY HUMPHREYS man. U

The above information is set out for the information
of the Bureau, Chicago, and Miami captioned with the informant's
symbol number in the interest of brevity since it relates to
various matters concerning his recent visit to Chicago.
Additional: information concerning this trip will be reported
as received fromthe informant. (). ‘

Los Angelas is considering the Miami ALDERISIO
case RUC. : : : : ‘

Docld:32286253 Page 5

