JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
es eeESESSSSSLSSSESiosasnnnnnsntennnnnonosas as ca nna onavaasssaausaannnananasssssssssssnsen ganas snss#s00000007easi0nsss:#0tt0e000000000o>s==ss4s 00001 S0000onnasfssss i oooeennaafssts ffsts ret? ooeas snaa fasts etter

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

COMMENTS :

SSeS

vl

DocId:32301659 Page 1

DATE:
“PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

Agency Information
FBI
124-10278-10494
HQ
97-4474-230

Document Information
FBI
SAC, MM
DIRECTOR, FBI

08/20/1965
i

MIRR, ACA, MEMBERS, ARRESTED, FUNDS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

06/20/1998

INDEFINITE

INC LHM

Date:

6/4/2015


OD goa nen [ a
1

1

!

il

|

[ t FBI
: Date: Aus 20 1905 :
Trgfsmit the following in (1A HAS NO ORJECTION TG _ 1 S | oRCE
DECLASSIF ENED BY ARIAT F
f ATRTEL RELEASE 3+ Gi. sec
7 IN THIS DOCUMENT, (Prag, PAPI
See ee TAKE -6-98——— ~~~ — yp rents 1 — =

Deproved: 105-8280 -REGE,
i | nan GBP j Agent in Charge ne

ELEABE YN PART
TO: Director, FBI (97-4474) 7 . elt fo!

z - a 4 ul

Ze SAC, Miami (105-2855) (P) O"\e ott!
MOVIMTENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION M¥ypLUcT (spe)

. @mRR) :
MM. oecLassirizo ny 3G Of SUM ed by

13 - Declassify of
TS = CUBA oy 2-18 -98...., , eclassify of NQapr Peas
Reference Miami tel 8/16/65 to the Bureau,

Enclosed are 12 copies of LHM dated and
captioned as above.

Y«) copies are being furnished locally to ont, ,
cu G-2, INS, OSI, Border Patrol, Customs, Coast [in|
Guard, FAA and State Department, Cuban Affairs, :

On August 16, 1965, Mr. AUSTIN HORN, CIA NW /
\ Liaison, Miami, advised that CIA possessed no addi-

iv ¢ tional pertinent interest and had no interest in
| Ni) this operation. He offered to immediately advise
NY

this office of any further information received from
his.’source and to consider making the CIA source avail-

Qa able:to Miami, S*T2C, u) rat {
} . - : - 1 wy
Bec acteca uylt August 16, 1965 me, STANLEY ScHACHTER SP5PE7=S# \
@ advised his office had received(a copy of the CIA SSIF f 2
y commmicationJand it was then in the process of in- ON -

viewed CARLOS ZARRAGA,'’who is a Key Source - Cuban

2 of this office, and that ZARRAGA had assured him ai g
BS pA Veter Copies RE } aye ye &
ra?" Bureau. (Buia, pomigencr Aisin 7 a7, “he D3 ms
_2'~ Jacksonville Gets. Y(RM) REG: BS i

Lem. (1-105-2855) Se

r vestigating matter. He said he had just inter-

DocId:32301659 Page 2


he SO

! : x

MM 105-2855

under no circumstances would his boat, FL 8477-F, bo
made available to BOSCH or anyone in the MIRR, -

YM T-1 te MM 974-5, .
YM T2 fs MM 635-8, a
MM 13 is(6ra, rant] @-eref)( u)

: : ‘This LHM is classified SECRET because it
contains information so classified by CIA, 4 u)

: wo At Tampa, Florida : ‘ a
H au

ls Will ascertain results of BOSCH's visit
to Tampa (see Tampa airtel 8/11/65). ; ‘

22 Will attempt to ascertain if BOSCH is

: moving in all his operations to Tampa, and will be alert
: : for-any information reflecting BOSCH has en airplane

: somewhere on the West Coast of Florida;

s "JACKS ined

: th ed At Jacksonville, Florida ~ : i
iz So is requested to alert logical informants and . (
propriate law enforcement officials and ascertain, if Py;
possible, [the identities of vessels due, in port on eee
8/24 ,25/65] bearing in mind that about one year ago the &j
MIRR planned to sink a vessel near the Florida coast as
it was proceeding from France » with cargo for Cuba,

At Miami, Florida —.

er ‘ |

DocId:32301659 Page’ 3. : eeaianeette * ee im


MM 105-2855. y ; -_
_ __ ten oe
Will maintain close’ liaison with| CIA|and U.S.
Customs, and with logical inf

ts such | 635-8
and MM 974-S,— :

Since U.S. Customs 4s a investigating: Miami will
conduct no active investigation as such,

DocId: 32301659

Page’ 4 *



MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

SEGRET

announce damage done to a Cuban sugar freighter, the
ARACELIO IGLESIAS, near the Panama Canal. He claimed
this damage had resulted from deceptive action of the
MIRR in covering over certain channel lights. This

‘article stated that Dr. BOSCH explained that the MIRR
would be aided in the future by Representacion Cubana
del Exilio (RECE), another anti-CASTRO organization.

ae [AL
The article reported that Dr. ERNESTOFFREYRE, EAs

President of RECE, confirmed the plan of the two or-

ganizations to coordinate their efforts. AusA

On July 30, 1965, MM T-1, a Cuban exile ac-
quainted with some of the members of MIRR, reported that |
RECE and the MIRR had been holding meetings at 1784 W. H
Flagler Street to further discuss ai:cooperative pact.
Participants included ORLANDO BOSCH; FREYRE, ToRGRyieS
A and others.

b : FREYRE, according to MM T41, was outspokenly
oy critical of the United States and referred to the United
y | States government’s handling of the invasion at Playa

£ Ap Giron as a cowardly betrayal. of Cuba.

Oa July 27, 1965, s009\/reGaxnas oan, 7
who is head of one faction of the Movimiento

endcrath Cristiano, an anti=CASTRO organization, and
who is also one of the coordinators of RECE, advised
RECE did furnish some money to MIRR but since the MIRR
had failed (in its attempt of June 10, 1965), some of
the members of RECE felt that BOSCH had planned that
failure in order to obtain press publicity to promote
fund raising. :

if

DocId:32301659 Page 5


SECKED
MOVIMLENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA
SRGRET

deception or to impress his listeners, as he did not
appear to be very discreet.

- On August 11, 1965, MM T-2 reported that BOSCH
had just a xed four additional projectiles, of an
explosive e, for a .57 mm. recoilless rifle which the
MIRR still possesses and has concealed somewhere, appar-
ently in the Miami area. MM T-2 said that BOSCH dis-
closed that’ he is interested in obtaining an additional :
supply of these projectiles a6 sdon as possible for use in
connection with an operation which he has planned for
sometime in the very near future.

a
on

On August 13, 1965, MM T-2 reported ‘dua'e

GERVELEO GUTIERREZ» also known as "MIMO," disclosed that

ie MIRR needs two "lapiceros" as soon | as possible. MM
T-2 explained that a "lapicere" is the Cuban term for a
M-1 time delay device, which resembles a pencil. in size
and shape. This device is uged in conjunction with a
detonator for demolition purposes, and it enables the
user to delay the explosion for a specific period of
time.

iz
|
{
|

MM Te2 said that "MIMO" specified that he wants
a “lapicero" which has a delay action of 11 hours and 50
aiacae

MM T-2 advised that none of the membersof MIRR
have Pp pars the specific manner in which they intend
to use- either the .57 mm. recoilless rifle or the
"lapicero." He speculated that BOSCH might intend to
tiount the .57 mm. recoilless rifle on a speed boat; and

‘Secrer

Ae

. SEQREL
SOUR DENAE=

DocId:32301659 Page 6


MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

that he might use the "lapiceros" to set off an explosion
of some sort.

On August 13, 1965, MM T-3, a federal agency
which conducts intelligence investigations, reported hav-|
sang received information from an unidentified law en-
forcement officer, to the effect that on August 10, 1965
ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, head of the MIRR, was engaged in mak=
ing plans to sink an unidentified merchant vessel due to
arrive at Jacksonville, Florida on August 24 or 25, 1965..
A frogman is to attach a limpet mine to the vessel, ac-
cording MM T-#'s source. MM T-3 also reported that
» also known as "Pato." is believed
to be {nvo. permitting BOSCH to use Sen er
carries. registration FL 8477-F. ge LA 37 fas Lop

Previous investigation has refletved that MIRANDA’s
boat, FL 8477-F, ig-how in ‘possession of, and under
control of ‘TINEZ, leader of a small anti-
CASTRO organization known as Cuba Libre, who detests BOSCH
and has stated he will not cooperate with him under any
circumstances, nor allow him to use this boat.

This document contains neither recommendations nor con-
clusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and
is loaned to your agency; it and its contenta are not to
be distributed outside your agency.

SReRer-

= 5%

peck

CONFIDE HAT

DocId:32301659 Page 7
