# docid-32303236

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10283-10248

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-11624-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

BUTZ, RICHARD K

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

11/07/1969

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

SS, ASSOC, FC, GAMBLING, B/F INT, TRA, SMUGGLE,

WEAPONS, PANAMA, GUATAMALA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32303236

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Ff263 1Rev. 12-19-67)

FEDERAL

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORANG OFFICE

ORLEANS

PFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

TES OF

MANL

"Tucky" Usaia,

Mickie Sala, Frank Tickie

Isaia

DATE

111/7/69

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

7/31 - 10/28/69

RICHARD K, BUTZ

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED BY

- s1t

REFERENCE:

New Orleans letter to Las Vegas, 8/29/69.

(IO)

New Orleans letter to Houston, 10/29/69.

( 10)

-P-

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Informant

Contacted By

NO I-] 18 NO 1232-C-TD

SA REED W. JENSEN

NO T2 IS NO 1509-G

SA ROGER E. MAXWELL

NO 1+3 Is NO 1535«C-TE

SA RICHARD A. SMALLWOOD

NO P09 18

CONVIC

AUTO.

FUG

PCX JENNIA SMITH

ACCONPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

SA REGIS L. KENNEDY

XX NONE

ACQUIT

CASE HAS BEEN:

RECOVERIES

TALS

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR

YES

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

YES

BINO

"INO

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

"OF

•NOVED

ES MADE:

Bureau

(RM)

USA, New Orleans (RM)

3.

Departmental

Attorney,

NO (RM)

Dallas (RM)

2

2

4.

Houston (166-591) (RM)

Las Vegas (RM)

New Orleans

18

- 92-1056)

* 162-727)

N

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

11624

22

5 NOV 14 1969

REC 44%5

Disseminatis

Record at Attached Report

Co.

AAd Cringied Diving

Organi ed Crime and Rackenring

Notation

6g NOV 28 1969/3

COVER PAGE

IATO

DocId: 32303236

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO. 92-1056

RXS:sIt

Identity of Informant

NO T-J is NO 1232-C-TE

NO I-6 iS PCI HARVEY LOVE

Contacted By

SA REED W. JENSEN

SA MICHAEL BARON

Nº 7-%.

is NO 1229-C

SA EARL R. PETERSEN

NO T-8 is NO 1677-C-TE

SA THOMAS E. DUHADWAT

NO T~9 I5 PCI ALVIN NUMA CAHILL SA PATRICK J. COLLING, JR.

NO T-10 1S. POL CORALD H. WILKINSON SA LONDON M. BOWARD

NO F-I1 IS XY 413-P0

NO T-L2 I8 NO 1792-PC

NỌ T-13 ảg NQ 1700-P0

NO T-I9 10 NO 1435-C-TK

LAS VEGAS DIVISION

SA RICHARD K. BUTZ

SA REED W. JENSIN

SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI

NO 1-15 10 LT. COL. JACK OTT,

SA RICHARD K. BUCZ

Louislana State Police

(By request)

NO 1232-C-TE is being assigned NO T-1 and NO T=3

to further protect his identity.

WIR.

By letter dated August 28, 1958, the Bureau

rurnlahud the following letter'to the Director I.

which was referred to

the Burcox by forner Assistant

#3.

NZCHOLE

Baton Rouge,

witten by a highly reputable individual in

Louisiana:

B

COVER PAGE

DocId:32303236

Page 3

---

## Page 4

NO

92-1066

RKE ASIC

On October 14, 1969, NO 1677-C-TE advised

SA THOMAS E. DUHADWAY that FRANK CARACCI continues

to frequent the New Orleans

Athletic Club on a daily

basis to play cards. Source advised that CARACCI

informed him

that he was not worried about his recent

arrest

1 x

Houston, Texas, for possession of bookmaking

materials and

said "We have the fix in."

Source advised that he has never known CARACCI

ta be a

bookmaker,

but added that he is a big bettor

and

that in the past when he handled CARACCI's account

be often became

involved in three-way conversations

betweer CARACCI, TICKIE SAIA, and himself.

Source advised that he never dealt personally

wd th

W 1 133

TZCX38

but it was apparent from his dealings

CARACON

that

SAIA

and CARACCI pool bets together.

LEADS:

DALLAS

AT DALLAS

TEXAS,

Wil1 contact and maintain

C0033c5

with intorahts and other sources of information

baving

Kaowledge of JOE CAMPISI and JOHN ROSS PATRONO

asteries subject's connection with these individuals.

ROUSTON

TEXAS. (1) Will contact intormante

13.01.46

tle

kxowkedge

a subject to determine the extent ot

sanblingoparation at Houston prior to his arrest on

4/23/98-

4412

3130

determine if subject has gambling

•concaste

222:

dous con

that he contacted previously as well

tha present

time.

(2)

T111 obtain full details of investigation

corduetad by the Houston Police Department

regarding

octe arrest and furnish to New Orleans file 92 1056.

(3)

W111 Identify individual making bond for

-bent at

024047

arrest.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32303236

Page 4

---

