JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATIO
* RESTRICTION!
CURRENT STATU!

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

FBI
124-90075-10045

HQ

CR 165-969-9

Date:

6/8/2015

Document Information
FBI

HQ

05/28/1964
3

LEONARD PATRICK
MAX NETTER

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

07/02/1998

INDEFINITE

RPT

v9.1

Docld:32328473 Page 1

31


CG 165-258

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA, Will report results of
investigation concerning telephone number 665-4305.

PHILADELPHIA E >

“AT PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA, © Will report results
of investigation concerning telephone “number 476-1364.

"SAN_FRANCISCO /
AT SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA, Will report

results of investigation requested, in referenced report,
' ST, LOUIS : : : piste

x AT ST, LOUIS, MISSOURI, Will report results of
investigation concerning telephone number 231-7900.
i

| CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. Upon completion of investiga- i
tion by other o: ces, W. consider the advisability of
interviewing subject relative:to his involvement in interstate
gambling activities. r :

ADMINISTRAT

é PCI ROBERT GRIFFITH advised on April 2, 1964, :
that it was his belief that there was no bookmaking activity a
taking place at 948 Eastwood Avenue in Chicago. He
advised that after making inquiries among his contacts

. in the neighborhood, he was unable to obtain any informa-
tion which indicated bookmaking activity at.this address.
He said possibly the location was being used for an occasional
poker game but it was his opinion that this was on a small
scale. He. also said that, he:had never heard the. name LEONARD.
PATRICK or DAVE YARAS mentioned in connection with this
location. He had always assumed that MAX NETTLER was in
“complete charge of the operation at that address. -

=oB¥ -
~ COVER PAGE

Docld:32328473 Page 2
