# docid-32293681-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10211-10457

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-86307-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/15/1960

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS:

DLH, ASSOC, MED/PERS HIST, CASTRO, FIDEL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

2

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

.:Office Memorandum • UNITED StATES GOVERNMENI

TO

Dron

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-86307)

DATE: 6615/60

SAC, NEW YORK (105-39681)

SECREL

IRENTIAL

SUBJECT:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN 1S UNCLASSKTLED

AMERICO JOSEPH

IS -R

SALEBE, aKa

EXCEFATAINS

SH

OTHES OR

Rerep SA RICHARD W. HTLI, dated and captioned as above,

at NY.

Massi

Declassify

The following information is set forth relative to

proposed interview with the subject.

I. Subject resides at 454 W. 22nd. St., Apt. 4RR, NYC.

He is an aviation electrician employed by Lockheed Aircraft

NY International Airport,

Jamaica,

Service: International, In 26, 1921 at Barranquilla, Bolivar or

was born september

Mompos, Colombia, and was naturalized 5-13-35

5603 - 23 ma Đ73/4(SF) 10-28-97

II. Subject is single.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668520/K5R

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X, 6

I11. On 1-28-60, ANNETTE SYLVIA EPSTEIN

(JFK

identity, advised subject had associated with LEONID A. KOVALEV S

in August or September, 1958.0$)0

LV• subject has been in contact with KOVALEV, YURIY A.

MISHUKOV

and VADIM A. KTRILYUK, all known soviet intelligence

agents, on various unknown occasions] Subject told EPSTEIN(S)

1959, he and the

Terrorn reguest. PYNOLnS is an &t subject or the NA Division a

V. None known.

VI. It Is noted the laCTATEY, KERILYUK and MIsHuroy have

returned

subject is cooperativelnema

ave considerable potential as an informant or double agent in 4-12-

the future since it would appear that he

(s) [soviets] in meeting people In

the past. (A

nas been useful pun

LASS.

& 1 mu Bi

105

REASON -

Bureau (105-86307) (RM)

DATS OF REVIEW

1-

New York

RWH: S1f

Meno Dranigar

REC 83161/05- 86307

_copies made

25 JUN 20 1900

6-28-600

SECRET

FETHQ by

HSCA TO

(Seo But 10 433-117200)

CONF

ADVISED RY

SLIP (5) C

---

## Page 3

NY 105-39681

LADIES

VII. According

O ERSATIN

and CENTre WAHLORN FOREMAN

(PSI- protect identity),

the latter an admitted homosexual

SALEBE has homosexual tendencies. DENNIS IYNN

has a history of homosexuality

otherwise be determined:

VIII. If the subject

cooperative,

it is anticipated that

the nature and frequency of his contacts with the soviets wills

be determined, as well as any requests the Soviets may have made

of him.

XI.

SALEBE

will be interviewed at his residence. No appoint-

ment for the interview will be made. He will be informed that

HARBER,

his former roommate, advised Bureau agents at Kansas City

that FIDEL CASTRO'S

agents had attempted to kidnap him and that

In the course of attempting

SALEBE will be asked if HARBER

by CASTRO's men but had escaped from them. He was interviewed by

Bureau agents®

on 5-3-59, at which time he denied ever having

called that office. (sy%

Bureau authority is

requested to interview subject in

accordance

with existing

instructions relating to interviews with

security subjects. Care will be exercised to protect the original

source in

this matter. No direct questions will be asked during

the interview which will disclose to the subject the identity of

the offical or establishment contacted, the method used in the

contact, or the fact that we are aware of the contact The ints

will be conducted in a manner so that the subject will

Olunteer the details of the contact del this subject is cooper

nsaffirmative steps wifl be

aken during initial inter

but a separate communication will

view and requesting authority to recontact the

potential security informant or double agent

R(5)

2E0K61

SECRE

CONFI

«ENTIAN)

---

