# docid-32307347

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10292-10050

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2824-48, 49

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

NEWSOM, MILTON L.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/28/1958

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS:

JFC, RES, CRIM ACT, B/F INT, BKG, MED, REL, ASSOC, TRA,

APALACHIN MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32307347

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FICE

MEMORAN

DUM

United States Government

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

RECTOR, FBI (92-2824)

SAC, DALLAS (92-36)

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO, WAS.

AR

00 - Dallas

DATE: 11/28/58

0.1Dallas 12/1/58

rewiches to ach But 12/2/58

Enclosed is report of $A MILTON I. NEWSOM, 11/28/58,

at Dallas.

REFERENCES

Report of SA MILTON L. NEWSOM, 9/30/58, at Dallas.

Houston letter to Dallas, 11/19/58.

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

Informants being utilized in this investigation are

as follows:

PCI FRANK EDWARD LOBIANCO

PCI H. P. WHITE

DI- 86-0.

Contact will be maintained with informants in an effort

to identify other individuals who can offer information concern-

Ing subject's activities.

Efforts will be continued to deveop

further PCIs and CIs in this regard.

ADMINISTRATIVE

One copy of this report is being submitted for

information to the Albany Office inasmuch as subject attended

• the

Apalachin meeting and as Albany may

be requested to conduct

further investigation in this case

• Bureau Encs.

13

2)97-950

I - Albany (Info) (Enci. 1)

02

4134-49

2 - Houston (94-192) (Encis. 2)

25

DEC 4 1958

2

- New Orleans (33-298) (Enels.

2

- New York (92-840) (Encls. 2)

(no 2)

2 - Dallas

MEN: ENCLOSURE

(71)

AS DEC 101058

DocId:32307347

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DE 92-36

1. Will contact H0-1076-C for any information he may

have in his possession which may show degree

of association of

subject with JOSEPH PETER LUKE, LOUIS J. MARINO, JOHN MATRANGA

and HERMAN T. WILLIAMS.

Will contact TONY VINCENT VALLONE and ascertain

It he is in possession of any information which may show

association of subject with above-mentioned persons.

3. After these contacts, will consider feasibility

of contacting these persons for information concerning subject.

4.

Will continue efforts

to interview Mrs. ROSALIE

P. MARINO, 7155 Moline Street, relative to subject.

NEW ORLEANS

AT BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA

Will obtain Information regarding the registration of

Louisiana 1958 licenses 338-818 and

325-473. Thereafter set out

leads

to obtain background information concerning these individuals.

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK

1o Will furnish Dallas any current information

available concerning CARMINE PELLEGRINO, wa. Pete, and THEODORE

MOGAVERO.

co Will ascertain when the above individuals return

to the New York area and advise Dallas.

3. Contact District Attorney's Ofrice to ascertain

facts regarding any current activity on the part of that office

in regard to CIVELLO.

4.

Will identify GERTI HERZIG, 224 Riverside Drive,

New York City, and furnish background information.

DALLAS

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

• 3 an

DocId:32307347

Page 3

---

## Page 4

2eeat form:

72(5)2-551

ORTING OFFICE

LE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DATE

11/28/58

REPORT MADE BY

MILTON L.

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE DERIODO/1,709,10,

1327,22/27:11/3-10;18-20,

TYPED aY

NEWSOM

• TH

JOSUFM FRANCIS CIVELLO, WAS.

ANTI- RACKETEERING

OxEIdO continues to reside at 5311 Denton Drive,

Dallas, Texas.

incornation from

Infornants and other sources indicate CIVELLO

not presently

engaged in criminal activities; has been in bad health

and not presently

active in legitimate enterprises. CIVELLO

belleved to have invested money in restaurant belonging to JOE

TANNI, FBI #3426142, Ver vis Ristorante, 5120 West Lovers Lane,

Dalias, Texac.

CARMINE PELLEGRINO, wa.

Pete; THEODORE MOGAVERO,

PETER JOSEPH PICCOLA arrested by University Park, Texag PD,

30/23,58, for

vagrancy and investigation of operating gambling

mabi1shmer..

PELLEGRINO 1S admitted associate of JOE. IANNI.

investigation by Houston Office indicates no known current

riminal

activity on part of CIVELLO in that area. CIVELLO SHOULD

LE OONSEDERED

ARME. AND DANCEROUS.

• P-

AL DANIAS,.

TEXAS

2

Bureau

(92-2824)

Albany

(Into)

Houston (94-192)

New Orleans (33-298)

New York (92-940)

Dallas (92-36)

ex ditached 4260

560EC 32 1G58

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2824-48

91-938

25

DCC 4 1958

INTEL

102

REC- 24

ERTY OF FBI.--This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

DocId: 32307347 Page 4

---

## Page 5

DI. 92-36

INFORMANT PAGE

I. 1 IS FRANK EDWARD LOBIANCO, POI Of the Dallas

Ofrice, contacted by SA MILTON I. NEWSOM.

T-21D H.

P. WHITE, POT Of the

Dallas office,

contacted by SA VINCENT E. DRAIN.

I-3 18 DI 86-0, contacted by SA MILTON I. NEWSOM.

T.4 IS WIILIAM CRAIG, VICE President and Cashier,

Exchange Bank and Trust Company, Dallas, Texas.

- 15 c

DocId: 32307347

Page 5

---

