# docid-32308774

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10296-10102

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 72-1511-96

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SULLIVAN, RUSSEL F.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 07/03/1963

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

APR, ASSOC, TEAMSTERS, CLARK, THOMAS JOSEPH, INTV,

CRIM ACT, RES, REL, BKG, DESCR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32308774

5

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD.:283 (Rev. 5-1-59)

.; REC-

/

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

TITLE OF CASE

UNSUBS (225 WALTER HERMAN

CALOCKNER,.

aka → VICTIM

(DECEASED).

DATE

773/63

REPORT MADE BY

- RUSSEL F. SULLIVAN

-CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/26-7/2/63

0OJ

TYPED BY

mae

REFERENCE

Report of SA RUSSEL F. SULLIVAN, 6/26/63,

at NY.

-P-

ADMINISTRATIVE

on 6/28/63, PCI GEORGE DONAHUE waS contacted by SA

RUSSEL F. SULLIVAN and advised he had heard nothing pertinent

or current regarding the shooting of WALTER GLOCKNER•

DONAHUE

stated that he has been in touch with numerous people in the

Ny area, but they also had nothing current or pertinent regardin

the shooting of WALTER GLOCKNER.

Find

APPROVED

COPIES N

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

72-1511

96

Bureau (72-1511)

3

- Newark

(72-50)

(1 - USA,

NewarK

?. - New

• York (72-164)

B JUL 5 1963

T032E

nE DEb/OE meliCE

VOCIC OWD EBYNO CEC

is

JUL 19 1963

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORTAT A

1A E

Criminal Division

REQUEST BECD.

DAE FWO. /L:-63 Attention

C-60

Mr. Walter J.

Room. 2509

1.

12 renee.

LaU.S. GOVERNMENT

•RINTING OFFICE

16-78324-1

4-9-6.4

€7K/кre....

DocId: 32308774

Page 2

Sido - live- i

---

## Page 3

NY 72-164

It will be noted that the interview on June 27,

ThaT CLA KOS TOO A We tre intervie tar agent

and showed a desire to assist the New York Office in this

investigation and other labor matters within the juris-

diction of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

This report is setting out a portion of the

interview in the body of the report and placing this

confidential information on the administrative pages for

the purpose of protecting CLARK who has been opened by

the New York Office as a Potential Criminal Informant.

It is felt that due to CLARks closeness to labor officials

and other individuals, certain information which will be

forth could be readily traced to him.

at he is very friendly with

TONY PROVENZANO, NUNZIO PROVENZANO,

(SAL BRIGUGLIO, RAYMOND WEAN, and RICHIE, BARRETT:

that in the past he has done "strong-arm works for TONY:

and NUNZIO PROVENZANO, and had been accompanied by L2uDs

and BARRETT on these occasions.

CLArK stated thatthe was*

arrested in 1961 with RICHIE BARRETT while he and BARREM

were attempting to enter a juvenile furniture company. in

New Jersey for the purpose

of pouring chemicals all over

the machinery and floors of the building.

He stated that

he

and BARRETT were apprehended by the police on the roof

of this building before they could gain entrance, and as

a result they were charged with attempted burglary.

CLARK stated further that the police were not

cognizant of the actual reason for their presence, and

although they confiscated the chemicals apparently never

tied the facts together and did not know that this ais

ruption of the business, was the real reason

for their being

there.

CLARK went on to advise that "HAPPY" REYNOLDS was

present but was hiding in the automobile parked near the

factory and the police never discovered him. This

"contract" for the disruption of this business was given

to CLARK, BARRETT, and REYNOLDS by NUNZIO PROVENZANO,

- COVER PAGE -

-500. 10109

DocId: 32308774

Page 3

---

## Page 4

A:

NY: 72-164

and they were to be paid $1500 upon completion of the job.

CLARK went on to advise that as a result of their arrest

prior to the fulfillment of

the contract, NUNZIO never

paid the money.

CLARK went on to advise

that he is ex-

tremely bitter about NUNZIO's not paying the money or

paying the police so that the charges could have been

dropped.

CLARK went on at this point to advise that in

New Jersey money will buy just about anyone from judges on

down in the local towns and cities.

CLARK stated that he and RICHIE BARRET have on

two occasions fulfilled "contracts"

for TONY PROVENZANO

for assaulting GEORGE PHILIPS, leader of the opposition

in Local 560,

International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBI)•

He stated that on the first occasion he and BARRETT re-

ceived $1,000 from TONY which was paid through NUNZIO

PROVENZANO •

On the second occasion, he and BARRETT. re-

ceived $2,500 directly from TONY PROVENZANO at a Local 560

meeting.

CLARK advised' that when PHILLIPS was assaulted on

the second occasion the instructions were to break PHILLIPS'

legs.

As a result, BARRETT used a hammer in the assault

and

repeatedly struck PHILLIPS on the body and legs with

the hammer in an attempt to break his legs.

CLARK WAS

the opinion that SAL BRIGUeLIowas-

the person responsible

for the disappearance

or "3 Fingers

Brown

CLARK advised he has nothing definite regarding the

disappearance of Casteretzogbut it is strongly rumorea among

labor persons

that it was BRIGUGLIO's boys who did the job.

He went on to advise that BRIGUGLIO has his own men which

he uses for any strong-arm work or other "contracts"

•

CLARK, upon the conclusion of this interview,

advised that he was attempting to contact REYNOLDS on this

date, and if he is successful would attempt to obtain infor-

mation concerning the murder of WALTER GLOCKNER.

- COVER PAGE -

1016%

DocId: 32308774

Page 4

---

## Page 5

NY .72-164

on June 27, 1963, CLARK telephonically contacted

Special Agent RUSSELF. SULLIVAN and advised that he had been

in touch with "HAPPY"

REYNOLDS on this date. He was advised

DY REYNOLDS that NUNZIO PROVENZANO wanted to givehim (CLARK)

and RICHIE BARRETT a

contract"

to handle GEORGE, PHILLIPS..M.

CLARK stated he did not know iI this

"contract" was to

"rough-up" PHILLIPS or kill him.

CLARK stated that during his conversation with

REYNOLDS, the only comment REYNOLDS made regarding the

GLOCKNER shooting was that

"SALLY made a big mistake"

felt that this reference of SALLY was to SALLY BRIGUGLION

CLARK went on to advise that REYNOLDS invited

CLARK to drive him (REYNOLDS), REYNOLDS' wife and children

their summer home.. CLARK stated that NUNZIO

RICHIE BARRETT were also invited to REYNOLDS, PROVENZANO and

summer home

in Highland, New York.

CLARK advised that he would be in

touch with Special Agent SULLIVAN on Monday morning or as

soon as they had returned from the country.

- E -

- COVER

PAGE -

Balons

DocId: 32308774

Page

5

---

## Page 6

NY. 72-164

on 7/1/63, PCI THOMAS J. CLARK telephonically con-

tacted SA RUSSEL

F. SULLIVAN. He advised that he did not

accompany

"HAPPY" REYNOLDS to REYNOLDS' summer home over

the previous week-end as was originally planned.

CLARK

stated that the automobile which he had borrowed from

MARGOLA, who has two automobiles, used the other one

1 this bungalow at Highland Falls

le did not know the exact address of the bungalow, but would

at exact ad

CLARK further stated

obtain this information upon his first visit to REYNOLDS'

bungalow.

CLARK went on to advise that REYNOLDS invited CLARK

and his family to accompany REYNOLDS tO the bungalow over

the week-end of July 4, 1903. CLARK further stated he has

not been in touch with

ouch with an one B1n08k

anyone since. June 28, 1963, and had

nothing pertinent or current regarding the GLOCKNER shooting.

On July 2, 1963, PCI CLARK was contacted by SA

SULLIVAN and advised the following:

He stated that he was to meet REYNOLDS at 12 noon,

July 3, 1963, and accompany REYNOLDS to the summer home in

Highland Falls, NY.

He stated that it is anticipated that

NUNZIO PROVENZANO, RICHIE BARRETT, and others would be

visiting REyNolds over the long week-end. CLARK stated that

NUNZIO PROVENZANO is very anxious to give out a "contract"

on GEORGEPHILLIPS; however, CLARK was not aware of the degree

of the contract and expects to gain more information on this

over the week-end.

CLARK went on to advise that when he was with

REYNOLDS on June 27, 1963, they were drinking at McGovern's

Bar on Spring Street.

1963 nh

During this period, RAYMOND WEAN

entered the bar, and CLARK thought there was going to be

a fight between

REYNOLDS and wEAN,

as WEAN is extremely

disliked by REYNOLDS.

-F-

-COVER PAGE -

SAF-00X

DocId:32308774 Page 6

---

## Page 7

NY 72-164

CLARK went on to advise that the reason for the

bad blood between REYNOLDS and WEAN was

that WEAN had

committed the armed robbery in 1961 which REYNOLDS was

arrested for in Jersey City, New Jersey. CLARK stated that

it had been planned that REYNOLDS, WEAN, and CLARK would

pull this job"

the only gun, held up and

robbed the owners of

CLARK advised that they

(REYNOLDS and CLARK) were met later. by WEAN, and to the best

of his knowledge they all received

approximately $1000 each.

CLARK went on to state that REYNOLDS was angry because he

had to go through the trial, and it cost him money to pay

off some people which WEAN never reimbursed REYNOLDS for.

CLARK stated that as a result of this REYNOLDS wants

nothing to do with WEAN, and

WEAN stays away from REYNOLDS.

It will be noted in the report of LINCOLN J. STOKES

on June 26, 1963, at Newark, this arrest and trial was

discussed on pages 42, 43, and 44.

LEADS®

NEW YORK

At New York, New York

1.

Will cover immediately all leads received

from Newark.

2. Will interview Detective BERT SCOTT, NYCPD,

regarding his knowledge of SPARACO in an attempt to determine

SPARACO's background and associates.

3. Will conduct appropriate investigation in the

neighborhood of ANGELO SPARACO, 2221 Belmont Street, Bronx,

NY.

4. Will maintain close contact with PCI THOMAS

CLARK for

from his association with

and NUNZIU PROVENZANO.

-G*-

- COVER PAGE -

5d: 1107

DocId: 32308774

Page 7

---

