# docid-32290457-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10205-10233

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2781-1253

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HALL, WENDELL W. JR.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 01/26/1968

PAGES:

32

SUBJECTS :

LST, BKG INVEST, ASSOC, REL, RES, MAIL, CUBAN BOLITA,

TELCAL, B/F INT, GAMBLING ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

6

---

## Page 2

FD-26:3 (Reñ. 3-8-67)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

TAMPA

DATE

1/26/68

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/7/67 - 1/22/68

WENDELL W. HALL, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

AR

REFERENCES:

Report of SA JOHN A. AMBLER, 12/14/67, at Tampa.

Miami teletypes to Tampa, 12/22/67, 1/5, 1/16,

and 1/17/68.

Report of SA WENDELL W. HALL, JR., 12/21/67, at

Miami.

Newark letter to Tampa, 12/22/67.

Miami airtel to Bureau, 1/4/68.

Miami airtel to Tampa, 1/5/68.

Tampa airtel to Miami, 1/17/68.

-P-

TYPED BY

bab

LEADS:

MIAMI

CONVIC.

AUTO.

FUG.

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

NONE

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT-

TALS

APPROVED:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

3/ - Bureau

• (92-2781)

- USA, Miami

(Attn:

Departmenta1

Attorney WILLIAM

| EARLE)

3 - Tampa (92-1)

(1 - USA,

Tampa),

2 - Miami (92-88)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

CC. 11G. Quirinal Divisivid,

rone and Racketeering!

Section, abom it/

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR XIVES ENO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

YES XINO

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2781-12538E65

EX 110

1868

ібі

---

## Page 3

MM 92-88

1.

Will continue efforts to locate and develop

a source who is close to the subject in the Miami area who

will be able to furnish information on a continuing basis

regarding the activities of the subject while he is in the

Miami area

Will continue regular coverage at subject's

Miami residence and known Miami hangouts in an attempt to

determine the subject's activities and contacts while in

Miami.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The investigative period of this report includes

investigation not available at the

time referenced Miami

report was prepared.

On December 15, 1967, the U.S, Post Office

letter carrier who services the TRAFFICANTE residence

at

740 Northeast 155th Street, advised that he has seen the

occupants of that address on only infrequent occasions,

and

that no one ever comesto the door when mail is delivered.

Normally the only mail delivered to the residence

is an

Italian language newspaper published in Tampa, Florida.

The

carrier also noted that all subscriptions and

clubs such as

Book of the Month and record clubs

are refused at this address

when they are delivered.

INFORMANTS:

MM T-1 is PCI RICHARD VAN. BRUMMELEN:

MM T-2 IS PCI EDWARD E. MORITT.

MMIT-3 is MM 1219-C•

MM T-4 iS MM 1004-C•

MM T-5 is PCI LOU PEREZ.

MM T-6 is MM 727-C:

B

COVER PAGE

---

## Page 4

MM 92-88

MH T-7 is PCI GEORGE NOBREGAS.

MM 1-8 1S SERGIO CASTRO, New York, New York

(protect by request).

AM ToO is MM 1025-C.

MA T-1O 1s MN 342-2C.

AN T-IL IS PCI JOHN O'CONNEL.

IN T-12 1S DANIEL PEREZ, Miant, Florida

(protect by request)

MM T-13 1S PCI JOSE MEDINA •

PAGE

---

## Page 5

MM 92-88

GARCIA BANGO and NOBREGAS HERIA were. law

partners in Cuba after the FIDEL CASTRO revolution on

January 1, 1959, and among their clients at that time was

SANTO: TRAFFICANTE whO

they represented in his fight against

deportation from Cuba

On his arrival in Miami on November 27, 1967,

GARCIA BANGO tried to contact TRAFFICANTE at his old

residence on 7ist Street,

Miami, and found that he had

moved. He then made contact with EVARISTO GARCIA VIDAL and

got the new telephone number and address for TRAFFICANTE.

GARCIA BANGO made arrangements to meet TRAFFICANTE for dinner

on the next evening, November 28, 1967 GARCIA BANGO and

NOBREGAS HERIA met the TRAFFICANTE family on the evening

of November 27, 1967, at Sonny's Restaurant, 23rd Street;

Miami Beach, where

the TrAFFICANTEs were lebrating their

grandson's birthday with the boy and his mother. After

dinner the women and the boy left and the three men,

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, GARCIA BANGO, and NOBREGAS HERIA, sat

and drank in the

restaurant until 3:00 AM. They engaged

in social conversation about Cuba and about the

trip

TRAFFICANTE made to Spain last year when he saw GARCIA

BANGO. TRAFFICANTE mentioned that he had made this trip

without the knowledge of his wife who learned of his trip

when the newspaper carried the story of his arrest and search

on arrival in New York on the return trip.

TRAFFICANTE

mentioned that he had gone to Spain in order to meet and

date AVA GARDNER who he has been trying to take out for years.

He was foiled in this regard by the close surveillance of

the Spanish National Police, all of the time he was in Spain.

After the hours at the restaurant, the party

adjourned to the TRAFFICANTE residence where TRAFFICANTE

opened a bottle of Pinch and they consumed the bottle. GARCIA

BANGO and NOBREGAS HERIA, left the TRAFFICANTE residence at

6:00 AM.

At 3:00 PM. the next day, November 29, 1967, GARCIA.

BANGO met with TRAFFICANTE in the law offices of FRANK RAGANO

and ANGELO ALI, attorneys for TRAFFICANTE:

At 9:00 PM that

night GARCIA BANGO met TRAFFICANTE for dinner at Capra's

Restaurant, 84th and Biscayne Boulevard, Miami

-20

---

## Page 6

MM :92-88

SANTOS J

TRAFFICANTE and; his wife, GERALDINE LEE

TRAFFICANTE reside at 7821 53rd Street, Tampa, Florida:

AUGUST PANIELLO and his wife, MARY JO PANIELLO reside at:

2505 Bristol Street,

Tampa, Fla,

They arrived at Miami

at

12:03 PM on January 17;

Bahamas Airline Flight 3076

1968, From Freeport, Bahamas, via

On January 18, 1968, Immigration and Naturalization

Service (INS) Inspector BOYCE, Miami International Airport

advised that SANTOS

TRAFFICANTE, nephew of captioned subject,

had returned with his wife from a visit to the Bahamas on

January 17, 1968, and that he had indicated he was returning

to his home

On January 19,

1968; Assistant Commissioner

STANLEY R. MOIR, Bahamas Police Force, Nassau, advised that

a group of individuals composed of SANTO TRAFFICANTE, RAYMOND

PONTINI, CARL IPPOLITO, MAYNARD SAMMONS,

ANGELO BRUNO

and JOHN SIMONE were all registered at the Holiday Inn Motel,

Bahamas, Rooms 40

42 and 44A. They checked out

Preeportin, 1968, and all blils were paid for by JOHN SIMONe.

PONTINI and SAMMONS are residents of Puerto Rico.

ANGELO BRUNO is

the head of the Philadelphia

family of the La Cosa Nostra (LCN) and a member of the

LCN Commission

JOHN SIMONE is a Capo in the BRUNO family and

resides in Trenton, New Jersey, and North Bay Village, Fiorida.

and an associate of

On January 19, 1968,

U.S. Customs Inspector.

MIKE ROMANO advised that on the return of JOHN SIMONE to

the United States he was accompanied by CARL IPPOLITO,

and ANGELO BRUNO.

On the return on January 16, 1968

this

group was also accompanied by. MAYNARD SAMMONS,

28 Diamonte,

Guaynabo, Puerto Rico, and RAYMOND PONTINI, Box 6272, Santurce,

Puerto Rico.

INS

USCS

PAVANI CAMA TA

REVEWED ON

•От.

10/25/95 JML/dxb/2W/TH

ON.

4/14/95 dab/Dw

-27-

I RELEASE IN RALL

* RELEASE IN FULL

DI RELEASE IN PART

# RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENTAL

O TOTAL DEMAL

92-27811253

---

## Page 7

FD-3+3 (Rev. 3-8-67)

Foreyn- 27

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

TAMPA

DATE

1/26/68

REPORT MADE BY

WENDELL W.

CHARACTER OF CASE

HALL, JR.

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/7/67 - 1/22/68

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

AR

REFERENCES:

Report of SA JOHN A, AMBLER, 12/14/67, at Tampa.

Miami teletypes to Tampa, 12/22/67, 1/5, 1/16,

and 1/17/68.

Report of SA WENDELL W. HALL, JR., 12/21/67, at

Miami.

Newark letter to Tampa, 12/22/67.

Miami airtel to Bureau, 1/4/68.

Miami

airtel to Tampa, 1/5/68.

Tampa

airtel to Miami, 1/17/68.

-P-

TYPED BY

bab

LEADS:

MIAMI

CONVIC. AUTO.

FUG.

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED NONE

FINES

SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

APPROVED:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

3; - Bureau (92-2781)

1 - USA, Miami (Attn:

Departmental

Attorney WILLIAM

EARLE)

3 - Tampa (92-1)

(1 - USA,

Tampa)

2 - Miami (92-88)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

Bv

CC. AAG. Quininal Divisiva,

Tone and Racheleering

ACQUIT-

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONÉ YEAR DEYES ENO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

_YES DINO

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2781-1253REC5

EX 110

1610 1 369

Notations

ід і

-2110

---

