# docid-32286793

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10196-10069

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/13/1963

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, TRA, ACT, ASSOC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286793

Page 1'

62

---

## Page 2

4-3" (Rev. 4-17-63)

sey

• AIRGRAM

DECODED

CABLEGRAM

ОРУ MiC

RADIO

XX

TELETYPE

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper.

Callahan

Conrad.

DeLoach

As Evans -

Gale =

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

=2

URGENT

6-13-63

TO DIRECTOR

-1-

FROM SAC NEW

YORK

12:46

AM

DE/SAV

AND SACS BOSTON, CHICAGO AND HONOLULU

130215

DATE

SAMUEL

M

GIANCANA AKA, AR.

00:

CHICAGO.

RENYAIRTEL JUNE 11 LAST. (A)

PCI VICTOR COLLINS ADVISED

JUNE 12 INSTANT HE IS LEAVING

NYC AT, 3:30 PM TODAY ALONE, DRIVING PHYLLIS MO GUIRE'S CAR,

A 1:963 TAN CADILLAC CONVERTIBLE, NEW YORK LICENSE 8669-C,

EN ROUTE TO THE "MONTECELLO" NIGHTCLUB AND MOTEL, FRAMINGHAM,

MASSACHUSETTS. MURRY KANE, MC GUIRE SISTERS' MANAGER, IS TRAVELLING

BY TRAIN.

MC GUIRE SISTERS HAVE NOT DECIDED IF THEY WILL

TRAVEL BY TRAIN OR LIMOUSINE, BUT WILL LEAVE NYC EVENING

JUNE 12 INSTANT. TONY RIPOSA IS ALREADY AT FRAMINGHAM.

(e)

POI HAS NOT OBSERVED GIANCANA SINCE DINNER AT PHYLLISI

APARTMENT JUNE 10 LAST AND DOES NOT BELIEVE HE IS IN NYC. (U)

MO GUIRES, KANE, POI AND REPOSA ARE ALL TO MEET AT THE

MONTICELLO, FRAMINGHAM, MASSACHUSETTS. POI LOWELL WILLIAMSON

ADVISED JUNE 12 INSTANT SAM GIANCANA IS NOT IN NYC AND APPARENTLY

LEFT NYC JUNE 11 LAST FOR CHICAGO. ME GUIRE SISTERS ARE

LEAVING NYC ABOUT 7:00 PM TODAY FOR FRAMINGHAM, MASSACHUSETTS

VIA LIMOUSINE FOR THE ENGAGEMENT AT THE "MONTICELLO".

WILLIAMSON IS TO FLY TO HOUSTON, TEXAS TO GET HIS CHILDRENLTHEN.

GO TO CALGARY, CANADA.

HE DOES NOT EXPECT TO COME TO NYC FOR

SOME TIME. HE WILL CONTACT EITHER NYO OR SA MARSHALL E. RUTLAND

OF CHICAGO OFFICE IF HE LEARNS ANYTHING OF VALUE CONCERNING

SUBJECT. W

PCI WILLIAMSON LATER ADVISED SISTERS TOLD HIM GIANCANA LEAVING

CHICAGO JUNE 13 NEXT FOR HAWAII. HE WILL STAY AT SAME PLACE HE

AND SINATRA STAYED LAST MONTH.. POI SAID GIRLS COULD NOT RECALL

NAME OF HOTEL BUT SAID IT WAS SURROUNDED BY GOLF COURSE WITH HOTEL

RELAYED TO HONOLULU :

REG. 52

92-3171

551022

JUN 181963,

EX:120

IS JUN 13 1963

B30455

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32286793 Page 2

---

