r
|
i

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

‘ AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-10214-10324

HQ

92-4225-1ST NR 179

Date:

4/24/201

TITLE:

| DATE:
\ PAGES:

COMMENTS :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

Document Information

FBI
SAC, AL
DIRECTOR, FBI

11/13/1959
9

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

08/19/1996

INDEFINITE

INC LHM

vl
ocld: age
k Id:32295048  P. 1



11/13/59
PLAIN T2ET
AIRTEL AIR MAIL
TO3 DIRECTOR, SBI

FROM: SAC, ALBANY

SUBJECT: ALLEGATIONS Of MISCONDUCT BY
? UNIDENTIFIED FBI AGENT,
A® APALACHIN, NEW YORK
DONALD C. SHOEMARER + INFORMANT
PERSONNEL MATTER

D2, Re my Radiogram, 11/10/59, and telephone call to
oo ihe Director JOHN MOHR by STEPHEN S. SMITH, ASAC,
11/9/59.

Since this matter is concerned with the case
entitled, “U.S. vs. BONANNO, BT AL, Southern District of
New York, Criminal 159-35, TOP KOODLUM PROGRAM," two
additional copies of this Airtel and two additional copies
of the enclosed letterhead memorandum have been forwarded
for Bureau use in connection with that matter.

Enclosed are 6 copies of a letterhead memorandum
captioned, “DONALD €. SKOSHAIKER, 39 Walnut Street,
Binghamton, New York," setting out allegations made by
SHOEMAKER that in late, September or early October of 1959,

cas
5 ~ Bureau (Encls.8) ELOY E alas
1 © New York (U.S. vo.JONANO,ET AL File. —
2 © Albany \ it ap ea

fever Canfas
(8) ‘OT RWOOR DMD
; s7nov 2% 1959

et

1. osuRe ; wee

j ex "0 oo

& - oe

“2.

icaaate F ms

GLE,

7)

z

ORIGINAL FILED IN

DocId:32295048 Page 2



n

ne

Mrs. MELVIN JOHN (LUCY) BLOSSOM had said that if she was not
left alone (in regard to testifying in U. S. ve. BONANNO,
ET AL), she would swear that an FBI man got fresh with her
and that when this agent and another came to her house to
serve a subpoena on her they placed the subpoena down her
front, pointing to her bosom.

| SHOEMAKERMalleges she said that this happened in
the past three or four months and involved investigators who
had been contacting her in the past three or four months.

For: the Bureau's information, Mxs. BLOSSOM has
not been contacted by any FBI Special Agent for over a year
and no FBI Agent, of course, has served any subpoena on Mrs.
BLOSSOM.

It is pointed. owt that Mrs. BLOSSOM'S husband,
MELVIN JOHN BLOSSOM, was formerly Confidential Informant
AL 3002-€. He was inithally contacted by Albany Agents
on 4/28/58, after a prior contact by Buffalo Agents while he
was being treated at the Veterans Administration Hospital,
Bath, New York. BLOSSOM was designated a Confidential
Informant by Albany letter, 8/6/58, and was deleted as an
informant, for lack of production, by letter dated 3/24/59.
Mes. BLOSSOM was seen on oceasions by agents in connection
with locating her husband,

In SHOEMAKER’S statement, allegations also appear
that Mrs. BLOSSOM'’S father, PETER STR&NO, 39 Walnut Street,
Binghamton, New York (who has in the past been committed to
a mental institution, according to SHOEMAKER’S statement) ,
instructed Mr. and Mrs. BLOSSOM before they went before the
Grand Jury (in New York City) not to say anything about what
happened at JOSEPH BARBARA'S and they agreed not to do 60.
Among other items, SHOEMAKER further alleged that Pies, Re
BLOSSOMssaid, in his presence, that the BARBARAS had a secret
tunnel on the property and that something in it would be quite
a surprise to somebddy.

| DocId:32295048 Page 3


“
OC c

Two Thermofax copies of SHOEMAKER'S original
statement are attached for the Bureau's information.
SHOEMAKER has requested that the information he furnished
be held’ confidential. :

In respect to SHOEMAKER, it is noted (as set out
in detail in the attached letterhead memorandum) that in
1950 he was charged with soliciting in respect to his wife
and that they both received jail terms in respect thereto.
In addition; as.set out in the memorandum, information was
received that he was again soliciting for his wife.

In respect to Mrs. LUCY. BLOSSOM, she was operated
on about two and a half weeks" ago at the Tioga General
Hospital; Waverly, New York, for breast cancer and returned
to the hospital on 11/9/59, for ‘another ‘operations

: On.11/13/59 Mrs. BLOSSOM's . doctor advieed that
Mrs. BLOSSOM would be reheased from Tioga General Hospital
on. the evening ‘of 11/13/59 and would be at her residence and
available for interview at. that time. :

In view of this agents from Albany are proceeding
to Apalachin, New York to interview Mrs, BLOSSOM regarding
this matter on November 14, 1959. . The Buredu will be
promptly advised of the results of this interview.

DocId:32295048 Page 4



te

UNZIED STATES DEPARTMENT OF J JSTICE ©

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION |

In Reply, Plea Referto

File No.

Albany, New York
Bovenbex 13, 21959

DOMALD C. SHOEMAKER
39 Walnut Street, |
Binghenton, New Yorks

On November 9, 1950, the captioned individual
volumtesred the following information to Special Agents
Patrick 4, Munley end Stanley $, Cearmackt of tha Federal
Bureau of Investigation at Binghamton, New York, in the
foun of a signed statement as follows:

“Soverber 9, 1059
Binghamton, N.Y.

"Ey Donald C. Shoemaker, 39 Walnut Street, Binghamten_
‘ake the following voluntary etatement. to Patrick A.
Mealey and Stanley Cearneckt, who have identified themselves

to me ag. Special Leenks o€ the Federal Buroau of Investigation,
U. S. Deparement of Justice. They have made ne promises or
threats to me. I contacted the above mentioned Agents to
furnish then the following information.

" am acquainted with Peter Streno, cho is the
father of lucy Bleséom. He zesides at ay home in a first
floor apartment at.39 Walnut Street. TE live on the second
floor, Peter Streno has Lived at my house about 4 year and.
i have town him since 1949 when we both worked at Endicott

| Johmgon Shoe zactory.

“Sometime.in late September oe carly Geteber Lucy
Bloseom came te’tee her father about getting money ‘to buy clothes
8 go te New York Ciry to appear before the Grand Jury

‘iavestigating the Bavbara incident. At that. time she wes in
ity kitchen which 26 on the second floor of the house and my

wike Ella and Peter Stweno, her fates, were algo there.
Pl fons Pacck, a. oo :
ENCLOSU

WEA? s\

| Docld:32295048 Page 5


‘Ret Benald ¢. Shoemaker

“Lucy Blossom was talking about going to New
Yerk and she said '42 they did not leave her alone she would
arate wich her hand on the bible thae an FBI wen got fresh
with her. :

"Concerning investigators who have been contacting
her the past three or four months she stated that some_cime ago
when 4m FBI Agent came toe her home she told him that she would
ewear that he got fresh with her. She also stated that shout
two weeks after the above incident same FRE Agent and one other
Agent came to her house at which tima they served a subpoena on
hex and they placed the subpoena down her pointing to her
boson. She said that this happened in the 3 or 4 months.

“After the Blossoms went to New York on. another
occasion concerning Federal Court proceedings they said they
thought the Russells squealed on thes, The Russells @re another
couple who worked for the Barbaras and the Blossoms think
the Russells told the Districe Attorney that the Blossoms imew
moxe than they were telling cegarding the Barbara incident.

“Shortly after the Barbara incident while.I was
visiting Peter Streno at his former vepidence in Endicott,
Melvin Blossom was also there and stated that all the men who ware
at the Barbara trbecue took an cath after the New York State
Police raid that they never would disclose what took place
at the Barbara estete and that 1£ anyone of them would talk,
his life would ba taken. ;

"Peter Streno instructed Melvin and Lucy Blossom
before they went to appear before the Grand Jury, not to say
enything about what happened at Barbara's, Lucy Blossom and Melvin
Blossom agreed to Streno's instructions. This conversation took
place at my home. It took place just before the Blossoms
were to appear in Yederal Court in New York City.

~2e

DocId:32295048 Page 6


“

Re: Donald C. Shoomakex

ot

“About two or three monthe ago, Steno, while
visiting im my apartment. told me and my wife that at some
future date Mr. Russell. would appear missing. Me didn't say

who would do it. 18 Sereno inferred that Me. Bussell talked

toe much to the investigators concerting the Berbara incident.

“Steenc hae vepeatedly told me that Lucy Blossom will
never tell the truth concerning what. she imew about the Barbera
incidents "

“During the pas yeux, during the course of many
conversations between myself and the Blegsoms, they beth stated
that if they ever talked ebout what they imew about the Barbara's
ineident their lives. would not be worth two cents, therefore,

Lf possible, they will attempt not to say angthing before
any court proceeding.

"Raey Blossom also told mo tnat Mrs.’ Russell
was shown some photographs of some of the men’ present at
the Bavbara. incident by an investigator end she identified seme
of the pictures, Lucy Blossom said that Mrs. Russell was a dam
feel for identifying those pietures.

“Lucy Bloscom told hex.fathor while in my presence
that the Bazbara's had a secret tunnel on the estate which
entwaneée is now covered and the Barbara's had kept things in it.

‘Meivin Blossom told me that when the investigators.
were looking foc gung in the woods on the estate after the raid,
he was surprised that hey did not find the tunnel because, ag
they had, they could have have’ found-something in ae aad. it
would be quite a@ gurpeise to soniebody. :

Metwin Blossom aldo told me that he imew in advance
chet ali the men were coming to visit Joseph Barbara, because
he had to wash all the Barbara ars, clean up the garage and the
barbecue area: and also to. pick up the food, He also told me

“3s.

|
| DocId:32295048 Page 7


Bet Donalé €. Shoensker

a

“ehat one of the Barbarns told him in edvance that they were

going to have guests at their heme om the day of the incident.
“Melvin Blossom also said that at the time of the

waid, he ebserved some of the visitors ruming “into the woods

and he geen these men throw guna into the woods.”

“E£ have read this statement, which consists of
this page and three others which I have initialed. T¢ is

true and correct. a
fef*denalé , Shoemsker

"Whines :
"Patelck A. Manley, Special Agent, FEE 11/9/59.
“Stanley 8. Ceamecki, Special Agent, FBL, 4£70/59.

: “Z also want to state that Peter Streno asked me for
$1600.00 on the aight of October 25, 1959, and told me £ would
have to have it by October 25, 1959. He gave ne reason for this,
gequest but told me he would get statements from people go thac |
i would loge my howe and my children. I heve talked to the
District Attorney, Broome County, Binghamten, N.¥. about thie.
Since that time Peter Streno was committed to the State
Hospital for observation. I signed the complaint egainst him
and Rectorg Dixon and Sargeant committed him to the State
Hospital. He ig still at the State Hospital. Since Peter '
Streno was committed his son Steve Strens, Syracuse, H.Y, :
called me aud my wiie anevered the phone and he said he would :
fix both of us and hung up. Tf have not heard anything more
fxom him. ‘ : :

"_ have tead the above statement and it is true.
— /sf"Donald C, Shoemaker
“patrick A. tamley, Speéial Agent, FBI, 0.8. Dept. of Justice Af
"Sealey S. Caamecks, SA, FBI, 11/9/59."

DocId:32295048 Page 8


“Res Bonald ¢, Shoemaker

No Special Agent of the Federal Bureau of Inveatigation
has bees in contact with Mrs. LUCY BLOSSOM within the past year
rope al Speclel Agent has served any aubpoena on Mrs.
BLOSSOM,

In vegard to SHOEMAKER, on November 9, 1959, Assistant
Chief of Police, JOSEPH SULLIVAN, Binghamton, New York Police
Department, advised that SHOEMAKER had been under investigation
by his Depertacnt Vice Squad for solleiting for his vite and-
men to his rtment. for ges of prostitution,
peer om Chief SULLIVAN said that his police les did not
tefleet an arrest for either SHOEMAKER or hie wife ELLA SHOEMAKER.

LAWRENCE NABINGER, Patrolman, Endicott, New York ‘
Police Departwent, on November 9, 1959, a@aid that DONALD Cc.
SHOEMAKER of 632 Dickinson Street, Town of Union, New York,
had been arrested on December 9, 1959, charged with soliciting
and vageancy, Patrolman NABINGER aild that SHOBMARER was :
smtenced to sin wonthe in the Gnendaga County Jeti and fined Hy
$500.00, FPatvolman NABINGER alse advised that ELLA SHOEMAKER,
wife of DONALD SHOEMAKER had been arrested on the same date 1
for soliciting (prostitution) and had been sentenced to i
Beiiford Hilis Wonen's Prison for an indefinite term. :

NABINGER said that police sources had fureished
information that SHOEMAKER was again soliciting for his wife
kaa currently regided at 39 Walnut Street, Binghamton, New
York.

On November 9, 1959, DAVID FOULKE, Broome County
Sheriff's Office, Binghamton, New York, advised he had no
axrest record for DONALD or ELLA SHOEMAKER except the arreat
by the Endicott Police Department, above mentioned.

“Se

DocId:32295048 Page 9


“a} Ronald ¢.. Shoemaker

_ Inquiry determined: that. Mrs. MELVIN. JOHN (LUCY)
BLOSSOM, mentioned tn above statement by SHOUMARER, had a
breast operation approximately two. and one-half weeks ago,
fox cancer, aud that her condition required that she return
to the Tioga Genezal Hospital, Waverly, New York, on Noveuher 9,
1959, for additional treatment. .

‘Mra, BLOSSGM's Last hone address wes Route 1,
Fost Moblle Homes, Trailer Camp, Apalachin, New Yorke.

Thies nomoxendum, is loaned. to you by the EBL ~
and neither it nor tts contents axe to be: -
. 4. Gasteibutes outside the agency to which loaned.

-6«

DocId:32295048 Page 10

