_ FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE 7 OFFICE OF ORIGIN ~ DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
BALTIMORE NEW YORK | 5/14/65 | 7 /22/64-5/14/65
TILE OF CASE : a REPORT MADE BY sane | TyPED ey
SA J, STANLEY ‘ROTZ frq
LA COSA NOSTRA, aka CHARACTER OF CASE : :
BALTIMORE DIVISION
AR-CONSPIRACY
i EEEEETE | EERE
REFERENCES:
Report of SA J. STANLEY ROTZ dated 7/22/64, at Baltimore.
Report of SA LEONARD H. MCCOY at New York, dated 8/21/64,
regarding National Organization.
-P.
~~~~ENCLOSURES TO BUREAU AND NEW YORK:
Two copies each of a letterhead memorandum aa
characterizing informants,
A
COVER PAGE
’
= Ge Ne (ee _ Para eT eon ean meemnnt
GrBureau (92-6054) ( ae 9, b054 + (07 Hk 19
2-New York (92-2305) c.2) —_—— 0
1-New Haven (info) XK 1

1-Philadelphia Si 1027) (info) i2 MAY 17 1965
2-Baltimore (92.

-——=

Res. we i : ae

|
DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT | NOTATIONS

AcENcY..,

eequesy nce, ye eee : ;
aly egal.
DATE FWD. a ke “+ ‘ v
|
i

=
a.

1.3, coveenment orice T0348

Docld:32576634 Page 1


BA 92-403

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA:

JOSEPH GALLO mentioned -herein.is subject of i
New noe file 92-657, Baltimore file 92-509, and BUfile j
92-7034.

By letter dated’ 1/22/65, to New Haven with copies
to New York and Baltimore, Philadelphia furnished the
following information under the caption "DAVID ROBERT
IACOVETTI, aka ITWI, OO:NEW HAVEN. Mr.. JAMES GREEN,

Chief Inspector of the Pure Food and Drug Administration,

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, furnished information to i
Philadelphia indicating that an informant of his. had gone

+o New York 'City where DAVID ROBERT IACOVETTI of Trumbull,
Connecticut, a button man in the Mafia, had. resolved a

difficulty in which the informant was involved concerning

the payment for purchase of stolen cigars. GREEN had also

mentioned that IACOVETTI was friendly with ROBERT DAVID

CORCORAN of Baltimore, Maryland, and had been arrested in

Baltimore in connection with beating up bookmakers.

Philadelphia referred to the specific arrest of
IACOVETTI by Baltimore PD on 3/18/60, and commented that
IACOVETTI's activities in the Baltimore area appear to
be consistent with previously developed information that the
CARLO GAMBINO "family" of La Cosa Nostra_in New York City
maintains control of the members in the Baltimore area.

For the information of receiving offices, no
indication has been received, by Baltimore that IACOVETTI
has been active in the Baltimore area since his arrest —
in 1960.

INFORMANTS :
Informant Identity Contacted By
BA T-1 BA 1298-C ” SA PAUL A, TURNER
BA T-2 PCI CHESTER :
GIGLIOTTI SA J. STANLEY ROTZ
B
COVER. PAGE

Docld:32576634 Page 2



BA 92-403

Informant
BA 1-3
BA T-4
BA T-5
BA T-6
BA T-7
NY Tel
PH T-1
PH T-2
LEADS:

members,

Nostra members.

Docld:32576634 Page 3

One copy each
New Haven and Philadelp
concerning DAVID ROBERT
CORBL and JOSEPH TAMBURELLO wit!

through logical interviews,
1 evidence of the existence ©:
1 in the Baltimore division.

Identity Contacted By

BA 1166-C-TE SA JOHN C. BONNER
BACS 1220* ea

BA 1277-PC SA J. STANLEY ROTZ
BA 1307-¢ SA J. STANLEY ROTZ
BA 1306-C*

NY 3664-C-TE SA BENJAMIN F, GRAVES
PH 599-C-TE Philadelphia SA

PH 591-C* Philadelphia SA

BALTIMORE DIVISION
AT BALTIMORE, MARYLAND

cx
COVER PAGE

2. Will continue to attempt to establish
investigation and informants
£ an organized criminal element

of this report is being furnished to

hia in view of the foregoing information
TACOVETTL and the contact of JOSEPH ©
h. Philadelphia Cosa Nostra

1. Will continue efforts to develop further
nighly confidential sources, concerning suspected Cosa :



BA 92-403
JSR: frq
2

LUIGI MORICL, the boss in Baltimore
JOSEPH GIGLIOTTI

FRANK MALVASO. .

CHARLIE BARBERA

MARIO. ANELLO

FRANK CORBI

JIMMY CARONA, also known as Jimmy Russo

Informant stated he recalled that his father had
told him that PATSY CORBI, brother of FRANK CORBI, had
been a member of the Mafia in West Virginia. Informant

.believed that FRANK CORBI is a member of La Cosa Nostra
because of. his close association with LUIGI MORICI. He
also felt that FRANK CORBI would ‘have to be a member since
he heard that he was shaking down his nephew, EDDIE CORBI,
the bondsman on Baltimore Street. y :

Informant..stated that JOSEPH GIGLIOTTI had been
active in the numbers rackets’ in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
prior to 20 years ago, but had been run out of Pittsburgh
by: other racketeers. GIGLIOTTI had been friendly with the
VOLPE brothers in Pittsburgh, who were murdered about that
time. GIGLIOTTI had been tried for a killing in the Pittsburgh
area, but not.convicted and informant believed he is considered
a "gun" for La Cosa Nostra. Informant commented that it
is.a mark of:@ishonor for an Italian to have his face cut
and that he believed GIGLIOTTI had also taken part in this
type of criminal activity. .He said that he had no proof
or even anymrticular incident in mind, but he suspected
that GIGLIO[TI may have made trips out of Baltimore for
the purpose of carrying out some sentence of La Cosa Nostra.

On October 21, 1965, Confidential Informant BA T-1
advised that GIACOMO ROMANO, also known as Jimmie’ Romano,
1 Riverside Drive, Essex, Maryland, had referred to the
age and illness of LUIGI MORICI and stated that "we are a
family without a father." He had said that his leaders were
then JIMMY RUSSO, also known as Jimmy Carona, and one of
the CORBI brothers who operate on "The Block", Baltimore
night.club district. Informant therefore assumed that these
persons were members of a local Italian syndicate.

Docld:32576634 Page 4
