JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

: AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10301-10292
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-3171-1255
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
: FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE
11/19/1963
1
SAM GIANCANA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 05/20/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

vol
DocId:32310026 Page 1

276


Vail wey, 12-13-86)

i “ss ts ta O
a \ toate

FBI
Date: 11/19/63

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

-Li--~ite----_--_--~-_|

Vie AIRTEL ATRMATL
: (Priority or Method of Mailing)
PaapenssanganhennsnnsnanqanegnnqenasnannassnnssnaqanascndandanussaqnassaussnngenssnagnansenqinasonaenaduedanssHusDsslssssneqenasseguasnssssuevssqesesuetesssseessslsssiaee Lote
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)
FROM: SAC, MIAMI (92- -170) )
al TANCANA, aka
pe ; Re New York airtel to Director dated 11/7/63. U

PCI BEN SWIFT advised this date that he was

talking on phone to CHRIS MC GUIRE on evening of 11/18/63.
He stated the MC GUIRE sisters are currently playing at i
Blimstroms (PH) in Boston and CHRIS expects to return to

Ft. Lauderdale-at the end of this week, She told SWIFT
that GIANCANA has not shown up at Boston to date. SWEET {
advised that PHYLLIS is apparently heeding her sister's
ultimatum that. if:she sees GIANCANA again the act will
bust up for good. J

LEAD

BOSTON

AT BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS

Will cover GIANCANA's activities if he contacts é
PHYLLIS MC GUIRE in Boston. Vy
55

O- Bureau (AM)

: afi b5
Behe a G2!

~ - REC.-ay
1 - Chicago: (92-349) (Info) :
2- Miami - : 44 NOV 1968
- (= 137-2) pe ed
i JIK/jis - CORY —
. Cw sel? > ae IN

oA hove pin ee Sent iP Per
yecial Agent inj
PBOEGZ wee N

DocId:32310026 Page 2
