# docid-32314929

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10338-10039

RECORD SERIES:

KC

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-116-1572

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

KC

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 06/27/1962

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

NICHOLAS CIVELLA (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32314929

Page 1

---

## Page 2

KC 92-116

s..

Will report results of contacts at various

banking establighments pertaining

to possible banking

accounts maintained by subject.

5. Will contact Westorn Union, Kansas City,

Miszouri, to determine if identity of person receiving

tolegran sent April 10, 1962, Chicago, Illinois, could

be ascertained,

6. With continue through intormants, other

sources and

investigation to determine subjects activities

and conduct logical investigation resulting fron such

coverage.

ADMINISTRATIVE

It is to be noted that one Reverend J. VIRCENTINI

via S. Bernardo di Menthone #3, Aosta,

Italy, sont mast

to subject's residence during period of May 30 - sune 30,

1962•

A lead is not being set forth to ascertain identity

of this indivicual in view of the fact it 1s felt thia was

possibly a circular type communication possibly for securing

financial support for a religious establishment.

With regard to firs. WINIFRED RAHLES, 1t is to be

noted that sho

was contacted

during the pertinent period

and furnished Iniormation reflecting that subject and

wife have to her knowledge no plans to date for a vacation.

Mrs, RAILI'S stated she has become very friendly with irs.

civetud and is uncertain as to the oxtent of intoruation

she would furnish but has pronised to furnish infornation

reflecting travel on part of subject. she will be maintained

in a PCI status and continued efforts to obtain co-operation

will be made.

In relation to authorized mail cover placed on

HORRIS SCHVARTZ, results of this mall cover have not been

obtained from the U. 3. Post Oflice Inspectors Office

to date, thus it is not known whether subject is receiving.

mail through SCHWARTZ.

NIM. JAMES J. FEATHERSTONE, Department Attorney,

has been contacted on a continuous basis by SA GEORGE I.:

LUCKINHOFE and has furnished no pertinent intornation

concerning resulte of investigations by other govermental

agencies.

= C=

(COVER PAGE)

$$80

1o93d

/ DocId: 32314929 Page 2

---

## Page 3

KC 94-116

In relation to information attributed to SC T-17,

it is to be noted this is results of mail cover placod on

subject's residence.

These returna did not reflect dates

of postnarke and for that reason the only intormation

attributed botween the period lay 30 - June 20, 196%. Poate

Ortice Inspectors: have been recontacted and advised that

they wilt pass information on to the postnan in question

to Obtain

such

information in the future.

Copies

of this report are not being forwarded

to las Vegas Division, however a lead has been set forth

by separate comunication to identily CAPPS at Wilbur

Clark's Desert Inn, Las Vegas, Nevada.

INFORHANTS

Careful consideration has been given to the use

Of I symbols and

they are utilized only when deemed

necessary.

KC T-4 Is KC 315-C, whose identity is known to

the Bureau and who furnishod

1 Information to SA MAX E.

RICHARDSON®

KC T-16 16 PCI MYS. WINIFRED RAFLES, who

furnished

Information to SAsGEORGE F. LUECKENHOFE and

ROBERT 3. DENEEN, and whose identity 1g being kept

confidential in view of her development as a PCI.

KC T-17 is results of an authorized mail cover

placed

with Post Office Inspector M. DONALDSON, JR.,

Kansas CIty, Missouri.

KC TO18 IS DEANE M. SHAPIRO, WhO i being

developed as a PCI and whose

confidentiat

identity should be kept

, KC T»19 1s KC 737-C, which source has previously

been reflected in reports as IC T-iD,

however is being.

changed due to the security. of this

source.

(COVER PAGE) = 38- 100%

DocId: 32311929 Page 3

---

