# docid-32301568

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10278-10403

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-84

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/14/1963

'PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, MEMBERS, FLIGHTS, RAID, BOAT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IC; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC NOTE, MEMO, LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32301568

Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

SECREL

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

DEC 14.155B

TELETYPE

EST

JVV

Tolson.

Mulr

Mr

Casper.

1.12:21,03 -

і м:.

Conied

4

A 1174+

:

WHERE SHOWN

URGENT

12-14-63

(TO. DIRECTOR

3-02 AM

• Mira Landy.

197-4474/

FROM SAC, MIAMI / 105-28551

(MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO, (MIRR)

IS DASH CUBA

RE MIAMI TELS DECEMBER ELEVENTH AND TWELVETH SIXTYTHREE

TO BUREAU, BUREAU TEL DECEMBER THIRTEENTH AND BUREAU TELEPHONE

CALL DEKEMBER THIRTEENTH SIXTYTHREE TO MIAMI.

612/13

AT FIVE FIFTEEN P.M. TODAY

/ PROTECT/

ADVISED THAT PLANS FOR

FLIGHT THIS MORNING DID NOT

MATERIALIZE, BUT

DR. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, HEAD

OF

MIRR AT FOUR P. M. TODAY AND FOLLOWING PLAN WAS OUTLINED

BY

BOSCH IMMEDIATELY AFTER BOSCH HAD CONFERRED SEPARATELY WITH

B

Classitied by SeaBa

16.4

FOREIGN

R

Der

B

ACCOMPANIED BY A CUBAN CO PILOT OF HIS OWN

HOICE,

WILL PROCEED TO

AIRPORT for Rol

OR

A.

FLIGHT IN THE PLANE SCHEDULED FOR

OMBING RAD. PLANE O BE USED WI SEE NEVE

BOSCH&

ON SUNDAY, DECEMBER ONE FIVE SIXTYTHREE,

WILL MAKE ANOTHER

JAN

A

1964 6,B

AIRPORT.

'TETRAL FLY OVER

ME-SHT FROM THE SAME

WITHOUT LANDING. OF

B.B

ND PAGE

estate (ENc)i

/-Boi (Enc) 1 Cout Sua (Edi)

I-

-Writ

- FAH

mw,0/17/63

SECRET

0.35-

DocId: 32301568

Page

2

FOREIGN

---

## Page 3

SECKI.

MOL TET CREATION CONTAITED

1..: i. ll (5 UNCLASSITIED

EXCEFT SHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Mr. Tolson-

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr

FEDERAL GUREAD OF INVESTIGATION

US OPARMEN Of Melt:

COMMAUNICATIONS SECTION

DEC 1 4 1963

TELETYPE

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Dabrach

Air. Evans

Mr. Gale.

Mr. Resen

Mr, Salivan

Mr. Tavel

URGENT

12-19-63

8702

AM

Kir. Trotter

EST

JVV

TO DIRECTOR 197-4470

2/1795 SOR MAC SAT

Classfied by A THE

Miss

FROM SAC, MIAMI / 105-28551

Declassity on: OADRIa

DEM WAN

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECTIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO,

IS DASH CUBA

RE MIAMI TELS DECEMBER ELEVENTH AND THELVETH SIXTYTHREE

TO BUREAU, BUREAU TEL DECEMBER THIRTEENTH AND BUREAU TELEPHONE

CALL DEKEMBER THIRTEENTH SIXTYTHREE TO MIAMI.

AT FIVE TITTEEN POM. (ODAY

PROTECTI

ADVISED THAT PLANS FOR

FLIGHT THIS MORNING DID NOT

MATERIALIZE, BUT !

DR. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, FEAD

OF MIRR AT FOUR P.M. TODAY AND FOLLOWING PLAN WAS OUTLINED

BY BOSCH INMEDIATELY AFTER BOSCH HAD CONFERRED SEPARATELY WITH

4

211t

ACCOMPANIED BY A CUBAN CO PILOT OF HIS ONE

CHOICE, WILL PROCEED TO

AIRPORT TOMORRON (1S/1Y)8

FOR AI

FLIGHT IN THE PLANE SCHEDULED FOR USE ON THE

BOMBING RAID. PLANE TO BE USED WILL, DE SELECTED BYS

AND

BOSCH. ON SUNDAY, DECEMBER ONE FIVE SIXTYTHREE,

WILL MÄKE ANOTHER

FLIGHT TROM THE SAME

AIRPORT. THEY WILL FLY OVERd

I WITHOUT LANDING OF

B, B

8,8

ONE

END PALE ONE I

heard (Exc)

asci (ENC)

sena (Ent)

-FIA FE

SECRET:

DocId: 32301568

FOREIGN

---

## Page 4

REC 33

(51) 97-4474

Date:

To:

1 - Nain

• - Nasca

'ANED

втАєс

December 17, 1963

!т..

Director

Wizard

Bureau of Intelligence and Research

Department of State

From:

John Edgar Hoover, Director

Subject: MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL IE RECUPBRACION

REVOLUCIONARIO

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

IRMATION

ALL INFO

HEREIN!

DATE

REL: SE UT CiA INFORMATION.

IN THIS DOCUMENT

nkH 2-6-98

-irt

Reference is made to our letter dated December 13.

1963, with enclosure.

Attached 18 the original of a nemorandum dated

December 17, 1963. A copy of this memorandun is attached

for each of the other recipients.

This will confirm information orally furnished to

I. J. J. Kelly, Department of State Mr. Howard Beaubten,

central Intelligence Agency Kr. John Keith, Federal Avlation

gency; and Mr. John H. Davitt, Internal Security Divialor,

pepartment of Justice, by MI. John I. Hacks of this Bureau on

recomber 14, 1963. The information was also orally furnished

ENCLOSUR

• Lester Johnson, Bureau of Customs, by Mr. B. A. Wells

§ Bureau on the same day.

We are endeavoring to obtain additional information

and the pertinent data will be made available to the recipients.

Tolson

Belmont

Enclosure

Mohr -

Callian - I - Director (Enélosure)

2/24

Spit

DeLoach .

Evans

Central Intelligence Agency It

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

Tavel

Trotter

Tale. Room.

Holmes

WIN T6A(15)

Gandy

MAIL ROOML

TELETYPE UNIT

VNASCA

DocId: 32301568

Page 4

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SCO/KS

ON -

2-19-98

(JEK) -

---

## Page 5

ISECKE.

A2Л4

APERNNTTON CUNTIEHI

tH, &N IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCENE WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

bir. Toison

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr_

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INIVESTIGATION

DEPARTMET OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

DEC 1 4 1963

TELETYPE

Mr. Casper-

Mr. Calinhan_

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans.

Mr. Gale.

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel.

URGENT

Mr. Trotter

12-14-53.

3÷02

AM

EST

JVV

• TO DIRECTOR

2/1775 SOS MACS

: 19744741

Classified by STitch

Miss

FROM SAC, MIAMI / 105-28551

Declassify on: OADR 7/w85

DEM

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECTIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO;

IS DASH CUBA

RE MIAMI TELS DECEMBER ELEVENTH AND TWELVETH SIXTYTHREE

TO BUREAU, BUREAU TEL DECEMBER THIRTEENTH AND BUREAU TELEPHONE

CALL DEKEMBER THIRTEENTH SIXTYTHREE TO MIAMI.

117/19

AT FIVE TIFTEEN P.M, TODAY EVELIO ALPIZÄR PEREZ /PROTECT/

ADVISED THAT PLANS FOR PRACTICE FLIGHT THIS MORNING DID NOT

MATERIALIZE, BUT ALPIZAR MET DR. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, HEAD

OF MIRR AT FOUR P.M. TODAY AND FOLLOWING PLAN WAS OUTLINED

BY BOSCH IMMEDIATELY AFTER BOSCH HAD CONFERRED SEPARATELY WITH

WILLIAM JOHNSON.

ALPIZAR, ACCOMPANIED BY A CUBAN CO PILOT OF HIS OUN

¿CHOICE, WILL PROCEED TO BROWARD INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT TOMORROW (12/14)

FOR A PRACTISE FLIGHT IN THE PLANE SCHEDULED

FOR USE ON THE

•BOMBING RAID. PLANE TO BE USED WILL BE SELECTED BY JOHNSON AND

BOSCH. ON SUNDAY, DECEMBER ONE FIVE SIXTYTHREE, ALPIZAR AND

IS CO-PILOT WILL MAKE ANOTHER PRACTISE FLIGHT FROM THE SAME

AIRPORT. THEY WILL FLY OVER BIMINI,. WITHOUT LANDING OF FOREIGN

END PAGE ONE

: Prank (Enc)

1- asce (ENC)

• CustonSCEN

1- NAVY (ENG)

1- ena (Exit)

1-rhn Fero

SECRET

17-4474-54

DocId: 32301568 Page 5

---

## Page 6

.:

SECRET

PAGE TWO

SOIL, IN ORDER TO OBSERVE THE LANDING FIELD AND WILL RETURN

TO BROWARD INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT SAME DAY.

BOSCH HAS ADVISED ALPIZAR THAT HE CAN THEN SELECT HIS

OWN DATE FOR THE ACTUAL BOMBING RAID.

ALPIZAR BELIEVES THAT AN AERO§COMMANDER PLANE WILL BE

USED. HE WILL OBTAIN IDENTITY OF PLANE TOMORROW, TWELVE

FOURTEENTH SIXTYTHREE. HE HAS NOT YET SELECTED HIS CO-

PILOT.

• JOHN KINNY, FAA, HAS ADVISED HE WILL BE IN CONTROL TOWER, .

BROWARD. INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, TO CHECK OUT THE PRACTICE FLISHTS

DECEMBER FOURTEEN AND FIFTEEN AND TO OBTAIN IDENTIFYING DATA

CONCERNING PLANE AND OCCUPANTS IN A ROUTINE MANNER AND WILL

ADVISE THIS OFFICE.

ALPIZAR HAS NOT YET SUCCEEDED IN OBTAINING IDENTIFYING

DATA CONCERNING THE BOAT WHICH IS SCHEDULED TO TRANSPORT PILOT,

CO-PILOT, AND TVO CREMEN FROM MIAMI AREA TO BIMINI FOR THE

BOMBING RAID. HOWEVER IT APPRARS ALPIZAR WILL BE IN EXCELLENT

POSITION TO ACQUIRE ADEQUATE INFORMATION CONCERNING BOAT AND ITS

LOCATION PRIOR TO RAID.

US CUSTOMS, MIAMI AND THIS OFFICE ARE IN AGREEMENT THAT ANY

ACTION TO STOP THE PLANE FROM DEPARTING FLORIDA WOULD DEFEAT

OUR EFFORTS TO HALT THE RAIDING OPERATION. THE PLANE IS SCHEDULED

CORR LINE SIXTEEN FIRXT:

FIRST WORD SHOULD BE CO- PILOT.

END PAGE TWO

SECRET

DocId: 32301568

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

PAGE THREE

TO DEPART FLORIDA WELL IN ADVANCE OF THE BOAT WHICH WILL BE

TRANSPORTING THE PLANE PILOT, CREW AND PRESUMABLY THE BOMBS.

THEREFORE, IF THE PLANE IS SEIZED OR FAILS TO LEAVE FOR ANY

REASON, BOSCH WOULD UNDOUBTEDLY CANCEL THE BOAT TRIP AND NEITHER

THE BOAT NOR THE BOMBS COULD BE SEIZED. BOSCH WOULD THUS BE

LEFT WITH THE SAME POTENTIAL FOR CONDUCTING THE RAID WITH ANOTHER

RENTED PLANE AT ANOTHER TIME AND PLACE. ALSO, THE PLANE WILL BE

• CARRYING NO CONTRABAND AND WILL MAKE PROPER CLEARANCE FOR BIMINI.

THEREFORE, IT CANNOT BE LEGALLY SEIZED.

• UACB, MIAMI WILL PROCEED WITH THE GENERAL PLAN OF EFFECTING

SEIZURE OF THE BOAT AND BOMBS BY US CUSTOMS, AND ALLOWING THE

PLANE TO DEPART FOR BIMINI.

GREGG BENTLEY, SPECIAL BRANCH, BAHAMIAN POLICE, NASSAU

WAS ADVISED RE PERTINENT FACTS ABOVE AND HE WILL ATTEMPT TO

VERIFY BY DISCREET MEANS THE PRACTICE FLIGHT OVER BIMINI

'SCHEDULED FOR SUNDAY, DECEMBER FIFTEEN. (G•J) (u)

MIAMI HAS ADVISED ALL APPROPRIATE AGENCIES INCLUDING USA

WILLIAM MEADOWS, US CUSTOMS, CIA, BORDER PATROL, FAA, AND OFFICE

CUBAN AFFAIRS, STATE DEPARIMENT, MIAMI, ALL PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS

TO DATE.

END PAGE THREE

SECRET!

97-4474-84

DocId: 32301568 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

PAGE THREE

TO DEPART FLORIDA WELL IN ADVANCE OF THE BOAT WHICH WILL BE

TRANSPORTING THE PLANE PILOT, CREW AND PRESUMABLY THE BOMBS.

THEREFORE, IT THE PLANE IS SEIZED OR FAILS TO LEAVE FOR ANY

REASON, BOSCH WOULD UNDOUBTEDLY CANCEL THE BOAT TRIP AND NEITHER

THE BOAT NOR THE BOMBS COULD BE SEIZED, BOSCH WOULD THUS BE

LEFT WITH THE SAME POTENTIAL FOR CONDUCTING THE RAID WITH ANOTHER

RENTED, PLANE AT ANOTHER TIME AND PLACE. ALSÒ, THE PLANE WILL BE

CARRYING NO CONTRABAND AND WILL MAKE PROPER CLEARANCE FOR BIMINI.

THEREFORE, IT CANNOT BE LEGALLY SEIZED.

VACB, MIAMI WILL PROCEED WITH THE GENERAL PLAN OF EFFECTING:

SEIZURE OF THE BOAT AND BOMBS BY US CUSTOMS, AND ALLOWING THE

PLANE TO DEPART FOR BIMINI.

GREGG BENTLEY, SPECIAL BRANCH, BAHAMIAN POLICE, NASSAU

WAS ADVISED RE PERTINENT FACTS ABOVE AND HE WILL ATTEMPT TO

VERIFY BY DISCREET MEANS THE PRACTICE FLIGHT OVER BIMINI

SCHEDULED FOR SUNDAY, DECEMBER FIFTEEN. (G-1)(u)

MIAMI HAS ADVISED ALL APPROPRIATE AGENCIES INCLUDING USA

WILLIAM MEADOWS, US CUSTOMS, CIA, BORDER PATROL, FAA, AND OFFICE

CUBAN AFFAIRS, STATE DEPARTMENT, MIAMI, ALL PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS

TO DATE.

END PAGE THREE

SECRET:

97-4474-84

DocId: 32301568

Page 8

---

## Page 9

-

SECRET

"--

PAGE FOUR

MIAMI HAS INSTARUCTED ALPIZAR KEEP THIS OFFICE IMMEDIATELY

ADVISED ALL PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS. :

MIAMI WILL MAINTAIN CLOSE LIAISON WITH OTHER AGENCIES AND

WILL KEEP BUREAU CURRENTLY ADVISED ALL PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS.

summ

MIAMI WILL SUBMIT UP TO DATE LETTERHEAD MEMO SUITABLE

1i6LSOR DISSEMINATION DECEMBER SIXTEEN SIXTYTHREE.

BUREAU REQUESTED AFFORD ALPIZAR COMPLETE PROTECTION.

END AND ACK PLS

3-17 AM OK FBI WA HFL

TU HL DIS

"i".

SECRETIE,

DocId: 32301568 Page 9

---

## Page 10

132072

SECRE!

PAGE FOUR

MIAMI HAS INSTRUCTED ALPIZAR KEEP THIS OFFICE IMMEDIATELY

ADVISED ALL PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS.

MIAMI WILL MAINTAIN CLOSE LIAISON WITH OTHER AGENCIES AND

WILL KEEP BUREAU CURRENTLY ADVISED ALL PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS:

MIAMI WILL SUBMIT UP TO DATE LETTERHEAD MEMO SUITABLE

FOR DISSEMINATION DECEMBER-SIXTEEN SIXTYTHREE.

BUREAU REQUESTED AFFORD ALPIZAR COMPLETE PROTECTION.

END AND ACK PLS

3=17 AM ÖK FBI WA HEL

TU HL DIS

'f."

SECRET

DocId: 32301568

Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRE!

FEDERAL BUREAU DE INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS

: OF MISTICE

SECTION

DEC 1 4 195

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson.

AVT.

Beimone-

Mr. Mohr_

Mr.

Mr. Oallahan

Mr. Contad-

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evana -

No. Cale-

Mir. Rosa-

1IT.

Sullirat

tar. Tevel t

Mr. Trotter-

Tele. Room.

Miay Holmes

Miss Gandy-

NONBIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

Classitied by SL

THERWISE

URGENT

12-14-63

3-02

AM

EST

JVV

(TO DIRECTOR.

19.7-44741

FROM SAC, MIAMI / 105-28551

4 P

ONOV IMIENTO DE DE REVOLUC REVOLUCIONARIO, (MIRR)

IS DASH CUBA

RE MIAMI TELS DECEMBER ELEVENTH AND TWELVETH SIXTYTHREE

TO BUREAU, BUREAU TEL DECEMBER THIRTEENTH AND BUREAU TELEPHONE

CALL DEKEMBER THIRTEENTH SIXTYTHREE TO MIAMI•

(12/13)

AT FIVE FIFTEEN P.M. TODAY EVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ / PROTECT/

ADVISED THAT PLANS FOR PRACTICE FLIGHT THIS MORNING DID NOT

MATERIALIZE, BUT ALPIZAR MET DR. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, HEAD

OF MIRR AT FOUR P. M. TODAY AND FOLLOWING PLAN WAS OUTLINED

BY

BOSCH IMMEDIATELY AFTER BOSCH HAD CONFERRED SEPARATELY WITH

WILLIAM JOHNSON.

ACCOMPANIED BY A CUBAN CO PILOT OF HIS-OWN

CHOICE, WILL PROCEED TO BROWARD INTERMACE ATRPORT FOOL

BOSCHEET ONANAY, DECEMPER ONE GETVE SIXTYTHREE, ALPIZAR

5 JAN

HIS

DSC IN

CO-PILOT WILL MAKE ANOTHER PRACTISE FRAGHT FROM THE SAME

-91964

10k0:001

AIRPORT.

TRESUEL FLY OVER BIMINI, WITHOUT LARGE FOREIGN

END PAGE

i State (Exc)!

1- doi (Enc)

(Eva.)

1 - Fint (Evc

і- Вто уснуви

m0,1/17/63

SECRET.

DocId: 32301568

Page 11

---

## Page 12

-

SECRED

....

PAGE TWO

SOIL, IN ORDER TO OBSERVE THE LANDING FIELD AND WILL RETURN

TO BROWARD INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT SAME DAY.

BOSCH HAS ADVISED ALPIZAR THAT HE CAN THEN SELECT HIS

OWN DATE FOR THE ACTUAL BOMBING RAID..

ALPIZAR BELIEVES THAT AN AEROYCOMMANDER PLANE WILL BE

USED. HE WILL OBTAIN IDENTITY OF PLANE TOMORROW, TWELVE

FOURTEENTH SIXTYTHREE. HE HAS NOT YET SELECTED HIS CO-

PILOT.

JOHN KINNY, FAA, HAS ADVISED HE WILL BE IN CONTROL TOWER,

BROWARD INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, TO CHECK OUT THE PRACTICE FLIGHTS

DECEMBER FOURTEEN AND FIFTEEN AND TO OBTAIN IDENTIFYING DATA

CONCERNING PLANE AND OCCUPANTS IN A ROUTINE MANNER AND WILL

ADVISE THIS OFFICE.

ALPIZAR HAS. NOT YET SUCCEEDED IN OBTAINING IDENTIFYING

DATA CONCERNING THE BOAT WHICH IS SCHEDULED TO TRANSPORT PILOT,

• CO-PILOT, AND TWO CREWMEN FROM MIAMI AREA TO BIMINI FOR THE

BOMBING RAID. HOWEVER IT APPEARS ALPIZAR WILL BE IN EXCELLENT

POSITION TO ACQUIRE ADEQUATE INFORMATION CONCERNING BOAT AND ITS

LOCATION PRIOR TO RAID.

US CUSTOMS, MIAMI AND THIS OFFICE ARE IN AGREEMENT THAT ANY

ACTION TO STOP THE PLANE FROM DEPARTING FLORIDA WOULD DEFEAT

OUR EFFORTS TO HALT THE RAIDING OPERATION. THE PLANE IS SCHEDULED

CORR LINE SIXTEEN FIRXT

FIRST WORD SHOULD" BE CO-PLOT

END PAGE TWO

SECRETI

DocId:32301568

Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

Durind the last ir. days we have received

Infornation concerning a roposed bombing

rajo over sure, this rail will be carried

out by plane from Bim1n1, Bahamas.

The

crew members of the plane and the bombs

to be used in the rald will be bought to

Bimini by fast boat from the Miami area.

Alpizar will pilot the plane and 1s our

Informant in this matter.

Attached teletype indicates plans are

being made for practice runs over Bimini

with plane in preparation for raid.

Our

Miami Office and Customs are of opinion

nothing should be done to stop practice

runs as this would defeat our efforts to

seize boat carrying the bombs.

Pertinent data t attached being

Department,

larry stone

telephone 12-14-63. (5)

-Ispresentative. by

ARJ:Ctc: fas

2/18795 Sp8MACGAT

Classified by ≤eB TA GAL

Declassify on: OADR 9/1/85

ALL INPORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SECREU

97-4474-84

DocId: 32301568

Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET

During the last fe days we have received

InOratIon concerning &.

out by plane from Bin1n1, Babanas.

The

crew members of the plane and the bombs

to be used in the raid will be bought to

Bimint by last boat from the llamt area.

Alpizar will pilot the plane and 1a our

Informant in thie matter 310

Attached teletype indicates plans are

being mado for practice runs over Bimin

with plane in preparation for raid.

Miami Office and Customs are of opinion

nothing should be done to stop practice

runs an this would defeat our efforte to

seize boat carrying the bombs.

Pertinent data t attached being

Maseminated to state.

arry stone.

Ald :ctc: faB

IT-s representative 12-14-63661

AEL INFORdATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIPIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SECRET

97-4474-84

DocId: 32301568

Page 14

---

## Page 15

SECRET

...

....

1 - Liaison

1 - Nasca

(NI) 97-4474

December 17, 1963

SIS INFORIATION CONTAINED

EREC! IS INCLASSIFIED

i XCEPT WHERE SHOWG

OTHERWISE

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO

2/18/95 S08MACSAT

Classified hy SPO BHAGCL

Declassify on: OADR /85

(TAR)

Previous information has indicated that the

captioned anti-Castro organization is planning to carry out

a bombing raid over Cuba from Bimini in the Bahama Islands.

The airplane scheduled to be used in the raid reportedly 1s

located at the Broward International Alrport, Fort Lauderdale,

Florida.

On December 13, 1963, our source in this matter

who has furnished reliable information in the past. learned

that a pilot and a copilot of the airplane were to proceed

to the Broward International Airport on December 14, 1963,

for a practice flight.

On Becember 15, 1963, the above-mentioned pilot

and copilot were scheduled to make another practice flight

from the same airport. On this flight the airplane was to

be flown over Bimini for the purpose of observing the landing

field there and was scheduled to return to the Broward

International Airport on the same day. No landings on

foreignysoil vere to be made.

The source believed that an Aero Commander airplane

would be used.

British authorities were advised of the above

information. (6)

puff

Toison.

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper

Callohan.

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

• Gale

Roser

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tole. Room

Holmes .

Gandy

- (16)

_ NOTE :

• Original to State, copies to CIA, Army, Navy, Alr Force,

-DIA, Customs, INS, FAA, Coast Guard, Yeagley. Coples separately

_being furnished John Crimmins, Coordinator Cuban Affairs,

Department of state, by Courier Service and tott.

447

1 MAIL ROOME

TELETYPE UNIT L

ENCLOSURE

ison

VHM

SECRET

DocId: 32301568 Page 15

---

