# docid-32989740

## Page 1

File #:

62-117290

SECTION 12

Serial Scope:

1145

1147,1148

1157

1161

THRD 1164

1167

16.9

1173

1/82

1189

THRL 1177

THRU

1187

1191,1192

1195,11958,1196

: 1199

1201

DO NOT

DESTROI

FOIPAH

Rereaned ander bre Jear E. Xennedy Gaaaza

EBeiA Badee :7EE082 Babe:

NW 55032

DooId:32989740

Page 1

de 5a

508 e9 2392t 144130 2=

---

## Page 2

- Mr. Long - Enc.

1-

Mr. Foster - Enc.

1

- Mr. Mintz - Enc.

2

- Mr. Coulson - Enc.

1 - Mr. Heller - Enc.

August 10, 1978

The Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Ix. Robert Reuch

Director, FBI

( HOUSE SELECT COMITTEE OUT ASSASSINATIOUS

In accordance with Attorney General Order

116-56, this memorandun advises that Special Agent

I. Weaver of the Jefferson City, Missouri,

Resident Agency, Kansas City Division was inter-

viewed on July 28, 1978. A menorandun setting forth

lix. Weaver's account of this interview is enclosed

for your inforration.

Enclosure

2458§2

S/a8116

REC54: 1 62-117270-1145

1 - Personnel file - Thomas H. Weaver - Enclosure

Assoc. Dir..

Dep. AD Adm._

Dap. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs..

Crim. Inv. _

Can 191310

Laboratory —

Legal Coun..

-(10)

Plon. & Insp. -

Rec. Mgnt. -

Tech. Servs. _

Brigiel signed Tack

Training

elephone Rm.

irector's Sec'y

KW 55032

MAIL ROOM

DocId: 32989740

Page 2

APPROVED:

Director

Assoc. Dir.

-Dop, AB Inv, -

б F4

Adm. Serv._

Crim. Inv..

ent. -

tell.

Laboratory....

Legal Coun. M

Plan. & Insp.

Rec Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off,

• 1 i

/ Lette

3651

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 3

(is

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Director,

FBI

September 5, 1978

1 - Mr. Mintz

Attn: Mr. Heller

1 - Mr. Bailey

1 - Mr. Foster

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

requested certain information from files of FBI Headquarters.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memo

randum in response to referenced Letter.

It is requested that

you furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

Enclosures (2)

62-117290

NOTE: HSCA request of 7/26/78 concerned a racial matters

conference held at FBI Headquarters 2/29/68-3/1/68 and

3/4/68-3/5/68 involving Agents from approximately 45 field

divisions.

Counterintelligence activity against King was

one topic discussed.

/;

3 - ENCLOSURE

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

Crim: Inv..

MAILED 7

• SEP

5 1978

FBI

- то

Laborotory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt..

Tech. Servs.

Training -

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephone Rm. _*

Director's Sec'y _

1976

MAIL ROOM L

NN 55032 DooId: 32989740

Page

3

.4137

REC-34

"!

L::

1.:

73

1147

SEP

6 1978

245,822, DID

1_5/8/86

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 4

..

1 - Mr. Mintz

Attn: Mr. Heller

1 - Mr. Bailey

1 - Mr. Foster

Septenber 5, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COLIIITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney

General fron G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Dircetor,

SCA ate at on 1970 the a 15 nation 10 arth Luther

King, dr, rcquested infornation concerning a racial matters

conference held at FBI Headquarters (FBIHQ) in early 1968.

This letter is to confirn that naterial in response

to referenced ISCA letter has been processed and is available

for ISCA access at FBIHQ. Where Infornation is not provided,

It Is either not retrievable or Is not being furnished pursuant

to the Memorandum of Understanding.

62-117290

•TA:Ofm (6

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO THE ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT I. KEUCH.

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to the Assistant Attorney

General, Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch,

dated September 5, 1978, captioned as above.

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

Crim: Inv.

Ident. -

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephones Boy

MAIL ROOM D

NW 55032

DocId: 32989740

ENCLONGE

245852-==

-5/a8186 SATEl

62119:9

FBI/DOJ

Page 4

---

## Page 5

| LOUIS STOKEN, ОНЮ, CHAIRM

IYER, M.C.

MALTIATE.

SAMUEL L.

мтяют. D.E.

-ATHWART B, MAC KINNET, DONN.

TVONNE WRATHDALE, DURXI, CALIF.

CHARLIS THONI, NIBR.

OHRISTAPHIR I, DOCO, CONN.

MAROLO 8, BANTER, MICH.

HAHOLD I, FORD, TENN.

FLOYD I. FITHIAN, IND.

( (202) 225-882

Rec: C.A.

Rec 8/2/18

Select Committee on Assassinations

1.Ã. House di Representatibes

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEXE.

WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

July 26, 1978

aldhizer

2т 1928

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

U.S. Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Attention: -Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the circumstances surrounding the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, JI.,: it is requested that the Federal Bureau of

Investigation assist this Committee by providing us with

certain material.

The attached memorandum refers to a racial conference

which was held at FBI Headquarters in early 1968. Counter-

Intelligence proposals directed at Martin Luther King were

apparently disucssed at that conference.

The House Select Committee on Assassinations reguests

that we be provided with all documents in existence per-

taining to such conference and any action taken as a result

thereof. Your response should also include any documents

relating to the scheduling of the conference.

Your earliest attention to this matter would be greatly

appreciated.

Sincerely,

M. Robatblaly

G. Robert Blakey

! i.

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB : kmy

Enclosures:as

."!"

ENGLOSUNGY

1145)

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 5

---

## Page 6

it in

Field

• 5..

SAG, JACKSON (257-9097)

Hate Greups

3/12/68

SECIION CHIRE GECREE C. MODRE

RACIAL INTELLIGENCE, S05

WASHLNGION SPRING FROJECI

RH

ALI, INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED.

DART SUBOL8U BY-PliES

At 5 PM, 3/12/68, GEORCE C. HDORE, Section Chief,

Recial Intelligence, Divisian 5, SOS, advised ASAC ELMER. E.

LINBERG and SUPELTISOI JANES D, LYGRAM AS FOLIOWS:

He advised that the followig proposal was sent to

IDEDILECIOL:

The racial conference at the SCE discussed the

Hashington Spring Project headed by MARTIN LUTHER Kim and

reconnended that the facts abour the Project be brought to

the attention of possible participants through a tubor campaign.

He would use out informants, without their knowledge, to spread

the story about lack of funds and organization.

Fears of

ecosonic reprisal and personal safety should dissuade potential

participants, We would point out also that the Projeci is

StriCLy fOI MARIIN LUTHER KING's benefit which is actually

the case. He thinks he can regain lost prestige by tais

deborstration. Sone suggested runors sould consist of:

The participants would be told that their names

:502ld be taken In Washington and welfare checks from the

Governsent discontinued,

Possible threats of violence and boully haru to the

! participants would be spread, Also information showing that

the Hashington Negro Comunity Is Incensed and Frious with

respect to this narch on Washiagton by outside Negroes.

The above are a ten of the type of tumors that can be

rised and yoo should tie in any rumor of this nature to your local

problem, Also think of other counterintelligence rethods and

secure telephobie opproval fron the bureau prios to, willization

2-257-9097.

62-117218

-THESED

+7499859

37100

---

## Page 7

FD-36 (Rev. 3-24=77)

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

• Facsimile

Airtel

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

• Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

J SECRET

I CONFIDENTIAL

JEFTO

J CLEAR

Date

9/5/78

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117299)

ATTENTION: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT,

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

SAC, MEMPHIS (66-2197) (P)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

Re Bureau teletype to Memphis dated 8/30/78.

Enclosed under separate cover to the Bureau are

3 items containing Xerox copies of serials from Memphis

files 157-109 and 157-1022 regarding the Student Non-Violent

Coordinating Committee (SNCC).

The enclosed items represent retrievable information

maintained by the Memphis Office

regarding SNCC for the

period 1/1/68 - 5/31/68.

REC-34

62-117 290-1148

886-737

* - BureaL - ENGLOCUN

(1 - Package) (Encs. $)

1 - Memphis

BFJ :mrp

2 SEP 8 1978

DOC. E43. REV.

CONFIDENTIAL AND SECRET

INFORMATION ATTACHED

same Rai

4,

Jest

FREKKE

Transmitted

"T.T. IT"

112312881

(Number)

(Time)

Per

FBI/DOJ

NW 55032

DocId: 32989740

Page-7

---

## Page 8

Aroma

P 2212552

ANG, 78

FM LONDON (88-228)

TO DIRECT CR

1662-117290)

BT

17433A4978 83122

RECEIVED

FEDERAL BUREAU

OF INVESTIGATION

COMHUNICATIONS SECTION

WCLAS EFT O

F

Tor

Put"

nif.

Telor ha,

7.

Director's doc'y

MURK IN.

RE LONDON AIRTEL TO DIRECIOR DATED 6/28/78, AND COMMUNICATIUNS

IN BUREAU FILE 62 - 11729D, RE HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

(HSCA).

AS FBIHQ IS AWARE HSCA STAFF MEMBERS EDWARD M. EVANS, PROF.

HARLES ROGOVIN AND ROBIN L INDLEY WERE RECENTLY IN LONDON FOR TWO

WEEK PERIOD CONDUCING INTERVIEWS IN MURKIN CASE:

RELONA IRTEL FURNISHED RESULTS OF INTERVIEW WITH ALEXANDER EIST,

CAMBRIDGE SHIRE, ENGLAND. WHEN STAFF MEMBERS IN ENGLAND THEY ALSO

INTERVIEWED EIST.

BEC-IO-137 67 117291-

1157-

ON 8/21/78, EIST APPEARED AT AMERICAN EMBASSY, LONDON SEEKING

ADVICE AS TO METHOD OF BRINGING SLANDER SUII AGAINST MARK LANE,

COUNSEL FOR RAY. EUROPEAN AND BRITISH NEWSPAPERS HAVE GIVEN

PAGE COVERAGE TO INFORMAI ION FURNISHED BY EISI TO ASCA ANALES SEP

ALLEGATIONS OF LANE THAT EIST HAD BEEN IMPLICATED IN CORRUPTIU AND

JEWEL ROBBERIES WHEN HE WAS OFFICER WITH NEW SCOTLAND YARD (SY).

"SiA

MILE ERICH

confinis

ADVISED

2pm 8/22/18

Fit.

i relent i

IS

AT.I. TORTECT CONTATIED

•= 4-78

SECTIO

space

cousion

GAiT

NW

5052

Ta7: 0023 83740

Page 8

---

## Page 9

PAGE TWO

EI ST

ADVISED

HE HAS BEEN BESEIGED BY CBS, BBC AND BRITISH NEWSPAPERS

SINCE THE ALLEGATIONS APPEARED •

EIST ALSO CONCERNED ABOUT WHETHER HE WILL BE CALLED BEFORE

COMMITTEE DURING HEARINGS AND IF HE WOULD HAVE COUNSEL AVAILABLE

TO COUNTER ANY CHARACTER ALLEGATIONS MADE AGAINSI HIM. EIST

SUGGESTS HAVING HIGHI RANKING NEW SCOTLAND YARD UFFICER PRESENT

TO COUNTER ALLEGATIONS. ADD IT IONALLY EIST ADVISED HE HAS BEEN IN

CONTACT WITH A FORMER LONDON " DAILY MAIL" CRIME REPORTER, OWEN

SUMMERS, WHO RECALLS PRIOR CONVERSATIONS WITH EIST DURING TIME

EIST WAS INVOLVED IN RAY INVESTIGATION. EIST REQUESTED HIS CONCERN

BE RELAYED TO MR. EDWARD M. EVANS, HSCA.

IN ADDITION, AMERICAN EMBASSY, LONDON, IN RECEIPT OF BILL FOR

$20D. DD U. S. DATED 8/16/78, FROM HARRY COUNSELL AND CU., COURT

REPORTERS, 61 CAREY STREET, LONDON, FOR STENOGRAPHIC FEE INCURRED

BY STAFF MEMBERS, HSCA.

-6152

LEGAL LIAISON AND

CONGRESSIONAL AFFAIRS UNIT, LEGAL AFFAIRS DIVISION, REQUESTED IO

CONTACT EVANS AND ADVISE OF EIST'S CONCERNS AND INFORM EVANS OF

OUT STANDING CHARGE S.

BI

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 9

---

## Page 10

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRI

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL

IVINE, OHIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWARIOACKINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.

•CHARLES THONE, NEBR.

CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

Rea, Giu

9-12-78

Select Committee on Assassinations

r.. House of Representatites

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

September 8, 1978

7B7

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the

United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

20530

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the circumstances surrounding the death of Dr. Martin

Iuther King, JI. the assistance of the Federal Bureau of

Investigation is requested in regard to the following matters:

1) Prepare for delivery Identification Division Records

and all BUFILE material on:

a) Charles Parris, dob 3/07/31

FBI Number 46-45-6A

b) Charles Parris, dob 5/07/48

Jefferson County Louisiana Police Department #26333

2) Prepare for access all available references and files,

BUFILE and Field Office, on a St. Louis Organization

named the Veiled Prophet.

3) Make delivery (on a loan basis) the original Piedmont

Laundry Slip which is believed to be in the possession

of the Atlanta FERREECe: 62-112290 - 1166)

4)

Make access available

to any rosters

of agents for the

St. Louis Field Office for the years

1967771968

and 1974.

As time is of the utmost importance your promptiattention

to this matter is greatly appreciated.

Yours very, truly,

62-119270

12. Robet Blaby

Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ghh

C :

Ron Heller

Bureau of Investigation

Page

---

## Page 11

FD

Rev 7-27-76)

TRANSMIT VIA:

[Tektype

• Facsimile

• Airtel

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

• Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

• SECRET

I CONFIDENTIAL

AIRTEL

I CLEAR

Date

8/11/78

F.

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

LEGAT, LONDON (62-604) (RUC)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON

-ASSASSINATIONS' (HSCA)

Enclosed herewith are four copies

dated 8/11/78, prepared by RICHARD S. CLARK, Legal Attache,

London, England.

It is noted that the visitors, Professor

CHARLES H. ROGOVIN, Special Counsel, EDWARD M. EVANS, Chief

Investigator and ROBIN D. LINDLEY,

Staft Counsel, on several

occasions expressed sincere appreciation for the cooperation.

afforded them by the American Embassy and British authorities.

Basically, they accomplished their interviews through New

Scotland

Yard or independently.

viewed ALEC EIST and previously had requested background infor-

mation on this interview from Legat personnel.

EVANS returned the weekend of 8/5/78 to the

United States and ROGOVIN and LINDLEY had reservations to return

on 8/12/78.

ENGLOSURE

. *

Bureau (4 encls)"i

(1 - Foreign Liaison Unit)

1

- London

RSC: rn

(4)

FX-136

11'

/"

1162

REC-70

liCE

%1

23 AUG 22 1978

13REE) B2=1=

ALL INECRMATEON COUTINED

1 2315015к очакої

BINA

Approved:

MOGE BoRia 19780740

Trans mitted

(Number)

(Time)

Per

GPO: 1977 0 - 225-539

Page 11

---

## Page 12

UNITED STATES DEPARIMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.G. 20535

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

August 11, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON

ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

On the morning of July 31, 1978, representative:

of the HSCA questioned Legal Attache RICHARD S. CLARK, London,

England, concerning his knowledge of the investigation con-

cerning

JAMES EARL RAY in Mexico.C

Questions were in general terms as to the

nature of our work in this matter in Mexico.

Legat CLARK

explained that he was

Assistant Legal Attache in Mexico

at that time, and

that while he undoubtedly did some work

in the investigation, he could not recall any specific

assignments or trips

without reviewing the resulting reports. &

Legat CLARK explained the police structure

in Mexico (and the United Kingdom) in general terms, and

identified some of the personalities who might have been

involved in the investigation. C

':"=

the color meeting belti

109111199

the traine da lorded daes

5/30/84. Прувирке

-1*

NW 55032 DooId: 32989740 Page 12

---

## Page 13

C,NG S21 232165 DZ

DE J!

00 13363 6Z • AUG 73

FI JACKSO. (52-544)

1 8 AuG 78

16 48,2

RECENED

FEDERAL BUREAU

OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIOSS SECTION

IO DIRECTOR (62-117298) IAMEDIATE

ATTENTION CONGRESSIO AL INQUIRY UNII, RECORDS MANAGEMENT

DIVISION

MEMPHIS IMMEDIATE

BT

UNCLAS

HOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (MSCA).

RE JACKSON TELEPHONE CALL TO FEI HQ, AUGUSI 18, 1975.

O. AUGUSI 18, 1973, 1:15 A•ilo, iR. WILLIAM V. GLADIN,

ROUTE 1, POSI OFFICI BOK 205H3, OCLAN SPRINGS, MISSISSIPPI,

TELEPHONE NUMBER 875-3513, TELEPHONICALLY CONTACIED

THE JACKSON FBI OFFICE AND FURNISHED THE FOLLOWING

INFORUAII0,1:

Oi AUGUST 17, 1975, 11:45 Poio, GLADEN WAS TELEPHONICALLY

COLTACTED BY BILL WILSO ., WHITE MALE, 46 YE AREC 52 AGE,

EMPLOYEZ OF GLADEN, WHO REQUESTED IO L13Z TH GLADEN

A55oc. Dir.

*Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD'Inv.

'Asst, Dir.:

Adm. serv.

Crim. Inv.

Ident._

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun."

Plan, & Insp.,

Rec, Mgnt.

Training

Public Affs. Off.

Telephone Rm.

Director's Sec'y

8988

pM.

74215

1162X

6 SEP 2°8 1978

ALL INERDATICT CONTAINED

PIED

Відруєтрака

wU 2ДC Totra 19783140 Page 13

---

## Page 14

1

PAGE TWO JN 52-544 UNCLAS

AID WIFE. GLADEN AD WIFE MET WILSON AT A CARD AND GIFT

SHOP OWNED BY GLADEN IN OCEAN SPHINGS, MISSISSIPPI.

WILSON ADVISED HR. AD MRS. GLADEN ABOUT HOW HE

KILLED MARTIN LUTHER KING. FOR AN HOUR WILSON PROVIDED

DETAILS CONCERNING THE PLAN TO KILL KING.

GLADEN ADVISED THAT HE RENTED PART OF HIS SHOP TO

WILSON IN JULY, 1978, IO OPERATE A WAICH REPAIR SERVICE.

WILSON TOLD THE GLADENS HE WAS SORRY FOR THE EKPENSES

HE CAUSED THEM IN SETIING UP HIS WAICH REPAIR BUSINESS

BUT HE HAD TO GET THIS OFF OF HIS CHEST. HE STATED

THAI THE SHERIFF FROM MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE, WAS THE ONLY

PERSON HE WOULD SURRENDER TO AID THAI HEMPHIS,

TENNESSEE, SHERIFF WAS TO MEET HIM AT THE HOLIDAY INN,

BILOXI, MISSISSIPPI, MORNING OF AUGUSI 1Ö, 1978.

GLADEN ADVISED THAI WILSON IS A VERY INTELLIGENT

MAN AND ALTHOUGH HE WAS DRINKING AT THE IINE THE MEETING

TOOK PLACE, HE THINKS WILSON IS SERIOUS ABOUT THE MUNDER

OF KING.

LHM FOLLOWS.

BASED ON DESCRIPTIVE DATA AVAILABLE, THE NAME BILL

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 14

---

## Page 15

is ones

PAGE IHIEE JW 62-544 UNCLAS

WILSON NOT IDENTIFIABLE THROUGH JACKSON OFFICE INDICES.

BT

NW 55032

DooId: 32989740

Page 15

---

## Page 16

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

8/48/784

. Attached teletype fresh SAC, Jackson advised of infore, a-

tier received telephonically from a Mr. William V. Gladen, Ocean

/Springs, Mississippi, who reported that an acquaintance, Bill Wilson,

had informed him on 8/17/78 that he had killed Martin Luther King.

Gladen advised that Wilson was drinking at the time he furnished

this information, however, he believes Wilson is a very intelligent

person and thinks he is serious about the murder of King.

SAC, Memphis, at approximately 10 am, today, advised that

he had been telephonically contacted by Shelby County Sheriff Barksdale,

who advised that he had received two telephone calls from a Burgess

Audie Wilson who claimed that he had been "the trigger man" in the

assassination of Dr. King, that his daughter had driven the white

mustang and that he would only surrender to Sherit Barksdale on

Sunday, 8/20/78, at 9:30 am, at the Holiday Inn in Biloxi, Mississippi.

A subsequent call from SAC, Memphis at 1l:35 am this date advised

that Sheriff Barksdale had received additional instructions to the effect

that Wilson was expecting his arrival in Gulfport, Mississippi, on this

Idate and would meet him at the Holiday Inn at Gulfport.

Contact has been maintained with AAG Robert Keuch who requested

that this information be provided to the House Select Committee on

Assassinations immediately. This was done. Mr. Keuch further

requested that any media inquiries received by any offices of the FBI

be referred to the Department of Justice. Since it was anticipated that

Sheriff Barksdale might inquire as to FBI and USDJ desires in this

Bitten, eh content do it tits un i envir: stick

in this matter, his office received a telephone call from Sheriff

Barksdale. Mr. Keuch advised that it was the determination of the

Justice Department that Sheriff Barksdale should be contacted by

the fBl and requested, It he so desires, to meet with Wilson and request

Wilson to provide a statement to the FBI or if Wilson was not willing to

do this, to request Wilson to provide a statement to Sheriff Barksdale.

' Mr. Keuch also requested that the FBI, in the meantime, seek to identify

the daughter and a father-in-law of Wilson who resides in Memphis,

l'ennessee, in the event that these persons needed to be contacted in

the future.

Mr. Keuch advised that he would personally contact the SAC,

Memphis Division, and ask him to relay these requests to Sheriff

Barksdale since Sheriff Barksdale had tried to contact Mr. Keuch.

personally. Subsequently, SAC Trimbach telephonically advised FBIHQ

of the request of Mr. Keuch's call and confirmed Mr. Keuch's request.

Based upon information furnished, a search of Bureau indices

discloses no information identifiable with Burgess Audie Wilson, however,

SAC, Memphis advised that information received from Sheriff Barksdale

| indicates that Wilson is known under FBI #879 421 E, having last been

arrested 3/1/76, on a theft charge.

The ident record is being located

and Memphis will sutel.

DJC:mjl

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 16

5/28/84

144

---

## Page 17

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

emorandum

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTIC

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

TO

: Mr.

Bassett

DATE: 8-17-78

FROM

:D.

SUBJECT:

1 - Mr. Basset

Ryan

1 - Mr.

1

Bailey

. - Mr.

Ryan

1 - Mr.

Foster

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATION 1 - Mr. Buschi:

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Assoc. Dir. "

Dep. AD Adm: =

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs..

Crim. Inv..

Ident..

Intell. -

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Inspe

Rec. Mgnt..

Tech. Servs.

Training -

Public Affs. Off. -

Telephone Rm. -

• Director's Sec'y -

FEI/DOJ

PURPOSE: To provide copy of opening statement by Jamei

Ray at the public hearings of the HSCA on 8-16-78.

DETAILS: On 8-16-78, after the recess of the Committee hearings

that date

G. Robert

made available the attached

was prepared by James Earl lay and read by him during the public

hearing of 8-16-78. It is noted that wher Mr. Ray made

the statement, he made some revisions to it.

Mr. Blakey

advised that the Number 5 imprinted on the

various pages is

not significant and only an internal control number used by the

RECOMMENDATION: None. For Information.

Enclosure

ROB

RCB: Pem (6)

655/39

7 - ENCLOS

APPROVED:

Director

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD InVa

Adm. serv._

Grim. Inv.

Ident.

Intell.

Laboratory

"ENCLOSURE ATTACIMO"

EX-120

REC-60

Logal Coun.

Plan, & Insp. 81

Rec, Mgnt.

wawes

Tech, Servs,®

Training

Public Affs, Off.

-1162X1

5 SEr 1 1978

DECIDES

ALL INFOREITICN CONTAINED

FRASIN 13 UNCLASSIDILD

DAE 50298к стУРнЕ

106/ 67035. I

Run an

*Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

55032

DocTa: 33978440

Page 17

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 18

8/18/78-

• Suesicquent to the above, Memphis advised

that due to the potential civil unrest (police strike)

Sherift Barksdale was unable to proceed to Gulfport,

Mississippi, and further did not feel he should leave

the city of Memphis at this time.

Contact was made with AAG Keuch who advised

that the FBI should endeavor to locate and interview

Wilson. Instructions have gone forth to this effect

Ito Memphis who will coordinate with Jackson.

You will be advised of developments.

See San Antonio airtel dated 7/12/72, attached,

re interview of Wilson in 1972 regarding thr

to Congressman Gonzalez from Texas A

Peel make

Hennel Ge nut; i in tent asian

NW 55032 DocId: 329897405 Padell&

---

## Page 19

vi a

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

UNITES STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Mr. Gladen advised that in July 1978, he had

rented Mr. Wilson part of his shop to establish a watch

repair service.

Mr. Gladen described Wilson as a white male,

46 years of age. He stated that Wilson is a very intelli

gent man and although he was drinking at the time of above

meeting he thinks Wilson is serious about the murder of

King•

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 19

---

## Page 20

FD-36 (Rex. 7-27-76)

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

• Facsimile

[x] Airtel

* FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

• Priority

[ Routine

:

CLASSIFICATION:

D TOP SECRET

O SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

ПЕЕТО

CLEAR

Date

8/21/78

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATTN:

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

SAC, JACKSON (62-544)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE.

ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

as above, Be Jerking tele Vetso Bureau, 8/18/18, captioned

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau and Memphis are

States House of Representatives.

For the Bureau's information, page one, paragraph

one, Line one of referenced teletype should read WILLIAM D.

GLADEN.

REC-79

EX-124

- Bureau (Enc.

1. - Memphis

(Enc. 2) (Info)

1 - Jackson

JAW/njb

(4)

IL INTEREST COTTAINED

did bearin

D.c 5/28/86

Approved 68457 8831978

Transmitted

55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 20

62-11920-1162X2

Per

(Number)

(Time)

GPO: 19770-225-539

---

## Page 21

:

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Jackson, Mississippi

August 21, 1978

OUSED STATES HOUSE OF REASESENSANATEONS

Gladen, Koute I,

telephonically

Contacted te Jackson member Federal Bureau of Investi-

gation.

He advised that on August 17, 1978, one of his

and oyee laden will wither icella request a that he

and Mrs.

Thereafter, he and MrS.

Gladen met Wilson at their card and gift shop located in

Ocean Springs.

Mr. Wilson told them he had killed Martin Luther

King.

He talked for one hour concerning the details of

the plan to kill King and stated the sheriff, Memphis,

Tennessee is the only person to whom he will

surrender.

Also,

he said he is to meet the sheriff at the Holiday Inn,

Biloxi, Mississippi, the morning of August 18, 1978.

Mr. Wilson further advised Mr. and Mrs. Gladen

he is sorry for the expense he caused them in setting up his

watch repair business but he had to get this off his chest.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

i are contents

is loaned to

outside your agency.

55531510.

Дончерка

NW 55032

DocId: 32989740

Page 21

62-117296-11113

---

## Page 22

:

TO

FROM

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

÷ Mr. BassettA

D. Ryan DR

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FNDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs..

Crim. Iny:

• Ident.

Intell. -

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

DATE: 8-16-78

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt. -

1 - Mr. Bassett

Tech. Servs.

1

. - Mr. Ryan

Training

~ Mr. Bailey

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephone Rm.

1 - Mr. Foster

Director's Sec'y -

I - Mr. Busching

SUBJECT: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

NW 55032*

PURPOSE: To provide results of research concerning

Reverend Ralph David Abernathy's statement before the HSCA's

public hearings on August 14, 1978, that, to this date, the FBI

has not interviewed him concerning the death of Martin

Luther

King, Jr.

DETAILS: Public source material reveals that Reverend Ralph

David Abernathy made a statement at the public hearings of the

HSCA on August 14, 1978, that to this date, the FBI has not inter-

viewed him concerning the death of Martin Luther king, Jr.

Indices search regarding Abernathy was conducted

regarding main Bureau MURKIN file 44-38861 for references other

than newspaper clippings with negative results.

However, a

search of logical areas of the file revealed the attached serials

of file 44-38861 setting forth interviews of Abernathy regarding

the asas nato of bathe 402 4h. 8. 12/32702 1 62 23

evening of April 4, 1960, at 10:55 p.m. at the Memphis Police

Department concerning the assassination of Martin Luther

King, Jr., that evening.

Serial 5531 concerns an interview of

Abernathy on January 30, 1969, at Atlanta, Georgia, concerning

his published allegation that

a conspiracy existed

with regard

to the assassination of Dr. King.

These are two interviews of

Abernathy regarding the assassination retrievable in files to

this date.

RECOMMENDATION: None. For information.

2 FEB 26 1979

ENCLOSURE

APPROVED;

Director

Assor. Dir.

Dep. AD Inv.

Adm. Serv. _

Crim. Inv.

Intoll.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

ach. Sarvs

Training

Public Affs. Off._

Enclosures (2)

(6))

AJI INFCE"

MITAINED

TaIN IS U

LATE S/28/8K

J/Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

4..

FBI/DOJ

DocId: 32989740 Page 22

---

## Page 23

"FEDERAISSUREAU OF INV

TIGATION

MEMPHIS

OFFIIOR ORIOIN

MEPHIS

DATI

TITLE OF CASE

4/17/68

KIPORT MADE HY

SA JOE C. HESTER

CHARACTER OF CASE

Apr11 4-16, 1968

UNSUB; axa

ErIC StarVO Galt,

Harvey Lowneyer,

John Willard;

DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

VICTIN

CIVIL RIGHTS

jas, raL

-P-

ALL INFORMATION CONTATED

ADK INISTRAT IVE DATA :

In view of the large volume of correspondence in this case,

no attempt has been made to relerence any particular connuni-

cation.

Becauge of the urgency of this matter, leads for

other offices are being set out by telephone or teletype,

and it would serve no purpose to set out lead for other offices

in this report.

9cAids

=

The infornation included in this report hag been

caretully reviewed, and negative interviews have been eliminated

wherever it was belloved possible to do so without giving the

appearance that less than a complete and thorqugh investigation'

was conducted.

A copy of this report has not been designated for

COMES MAOK: 6 - Buread

tensen con

DO NOT WATTI IN SPACIOS INCLOWN

3

- atlanta

Birminghan

6 1974.

!

44138861-2332

1O3 AngELES

1B APR 29 1968

Mobile

EP

REC 22

-

New Orloang

EX 109

- St. Louis

5 - Memphis (44-1987)

-he-CRUnit, Rm.2260

ICc-CRD

COVER PAGE

5-6-68

Ned 694-6

102-187229

and D

6/9/76

1/78 +

90-0

NW

33032

70 MAY 2 4 1968

DocId: 32989740.

Page 23

Nt:: 1013

---

## Page 24

..."

XE 44-1987

the USA, Hestern District of Tennessee, Memphis, Tennessee,

but extra copies are being naintained in the Memphis Office

and will be made available to the USA when so directed by

the Bureau.

LEAD:

THE MEMPHIS OFFICE:

AT MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE:

M111 continue efforts to identily the Unknown

subject.

→ NW 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 24

•- -

=

- B* .

COVER PAGE

...i

---

## Page 25

UNITED STATES: DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Coy 901

Report of

SA JOE C. HESTER

Office: MEMPHIS

Dotes

4/17/68

File Nomebers

HE 44-1987

Thie:

UNKNOWN SUBJECT,

also known as

Eric Starvo Galt,

Harvey Lowneyer,

John Willard;

DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. - VICTIN

Character: CIVIL RIGHTS

Synopele:

At about 6:00 PM On 4/4/68, while standing on second

Iloor balcony outside room 306 of the Lorraine Motel, 406

Mulberry Stroot, Henphin, Tennessee, victim was atruck in

right side of face by a single bullot. Autopsy report indi-

cated that "the severing of the spinal cord at this level

• vera bre

and to this extent wag a wound that was latal very shortly.

after its occurrence." This investigatlon, predicated

upon a specific request from the attornay General of the

U.s., disclosed fatal shot was fired Iron the bathroom of

a rooming house located at 422} 8. Main Street, Memphis,.

which bathroom was located at the roar of the rooming

house, and which had a mindon overlooking the Lorraine Hotel..

(Crime scene diagram included in detaila.) On afternoon of

" 4/4/68, Unknown Subject rented room 5-B at 422} S. Main

•Street and paid one weeks rent. After hearing rifle shot

at about 6:00 PH on 4/4/68, other tenants in rooming house

observed Unknown Subject flee from rooming house carrying

large package which was subsequently abandoned by hin on

sidewalk In Iront of Canipe Amusement Company, 424 S. Main

Street, Iron which place he was observed to flee in a white

Mustang. Found abandoned in Iront of 424 S. Main Street

мав 30-06 Remington nodel 760 rifle, serial number 461476,

a small plastic suitcase containing autorous articles,

undershorts, & toe shirt, binoculars, and a brown and

bedspread in which all of there items wore partially wrappod.

Investigation at notels in the vicinity of Kemphis, Tennessee,

to locate an individual driving a white Mustang, disclosed

This docken! contalas salther recommendations nor conclusions of any kind. It li the property of the FBI, and is a loan to your engency!

# and/or its contents ane not to be diarlouted outaide your agency.

36-91004-3

ww.55032--Dobtd43293971l-Bage_25

---

## Page 26

Is 44-1987

2608 Highland avenue, Birminghan,

ALabaRa, 8a Spent the night of 4/3/68, at the Rebel Motel,

3466 Laxar Avenue, Neuphis, Tennessee, and was driving

a mustang with alabana license 1-38993. Investigation

disclosed binocularg abandoned by Unknown subjoct were

purchased arternoon O1 414/68, ITOR RALPH N. СЛРЕНЙ,

залевнал, ¡огу агив сопраду, немрів.

Gillette shaving

31t abandonod by Unknown Subject determined to haye beer

purchased Oliver ¡exall Drug store, unitenayen, tonsossee.

autopsy Iindingg set out.

IN VIEN OF THE CRIME POR WHICH UNSUE

BEING SOUGHT, HE SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARKED AND DANGEROUS.

_P .

;

=200

NW 55032. DocId: 32989740

Page 26

2 me

---

## Page 27

• FD-302 (ROy,4-15-61)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Ralph B

Date -

Apr11 8e 1968

ReVerend RALPi DaNy) ABERNATHY, 690 la Yerne Drive, N. Vo

ILLante

at 10:55 p.

Georgis, was interviewed at the Memphis Police Departrent

Apr11 4, 1968.

RevErend ABERNATHY was advised of

the Agent's identity and of

the sature of the matter under investiga-

tion.

Reverend ABiiialiy, who described hingelf as Vice President

at large and treasurer o1

the Southern Christian Leadership

Conference, stated he was DI. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. 's closest

associate and stated that he and Dr. KING always shared & room

whenever they travelled together. He stated that at about 10:30 e:u.

on April 3, 1968, he and DI. KING registered at the Lorraine Motel,

Nephig, Tennessee.

Reverend ABERNATHY stated that on April 4, 1968, he and DI.

KING did not leave the notel and spent nost of the day in their

rooM, $306, which 1s located on the second floor of the notel.

He stated that he and Dr. KING had been gone from their roon for

approximately one hour or legs when they returned to the room at

about 5:30 p.X. He said they got dressed as they were going to

dinner at the home of Reverend BILLY XyLE and that at almost exactly

6 p.n. they started to leave the room. Reverend ABERNATHY stopped

Iot & nonent and Di. KING walked out onto the balcony just outside

the door to his room.

Reverend ABERNATHY waS st1l1 ingide the

notel roon but could herr dI. KING discussing the dinner engagenent:

with other associates who Reverend ABERNATHY believes were standing

In the parking ares of the notel undernesth and to the front of the

balcony on which Dr. KING was standing.

Reverend ABERNATHY stated he heard what sounded l1k0 & fire-

cracker and then heard the screans of persons to whom dI. KING had

been talking.

Revererd ABERNATHY went then to the balcony and dis-

covered dr. KING lying there wounded in the right side of the face

and neck.

He said he believed DI. XING attempted to speak to him

but was unable to do so.

Reverend ABERNATHY said he instructed

someone to call an ambulance and then accompanied DI. KING in the

ambulance to the hospital where DI. KING subsequently died.

48

On -

4/4/68

at Memphis, Tennegsee

File # Hemph 1s 44-1987

by BA JOE C. HESTER: bo

-Date dictated _4/8/68

Thie document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBl. It in the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your uzoncy: it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

---

## Page 28

NO: 444-1897

Reverond ABERNaTHY stated that judging fron the sound

of the noise it appeared that the shot cane Iron diroctly in

Iront of the door and not fron any great distanco.

Bo statod

ho did not observe anything that rould indicate who sired the

shot.

Reverend ABERRATiY a1so stated that while they voro la

the notal room DI. XING did not, to his knomledgo, receiva say

telophone calls of a threatening nature or calle

Ітом розкоря

Who would not identify themselves.

Reverend ABERNATHY saId

DI. JING had not feared that any particular persons night

barn blu and ReVOreNd ABERNATHY Mas unable to suggest any

suspocts or to provide any other intornation which night

Ras1at 10 1dont11y10g DI. KING'N k1llOI.,

49

My ga0s2 DocTar52989740

Page 28

---

## Page 29

FD-36.(Ror: 5-22-84)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

1/31/69

(Type in plainiezi or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority)

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, ATLANTA (44-2386) (P)

MURKIN

Re Atlanta teletype to Bureau and Memphis dated

1/30/69, and Bureau telephone call to Atlanta, 1/30/69.

Enclosed for the Bureau are five (5) copies of LEM and

• to Memphis are two (2) copies of LHM captioned "ASSASSINATION OF

DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., AT MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE, APRIL 4, 1968" •

ICC: AAG C

Form

T.7,

JOBs RAG CI

TOTTB-94

LEIN

CIVIL RIGHTS UNTY

Bureau (Enc. 5).

2

Hemphis

• (Enc.

2)EK

-

Atlanta

ORH: vSC

(7)

231: 111!

Le. D. - Bistion

1=0=

Approved:

Koent in Charge

DocId: 32989740

Page 29

REC 101

11 28 30.?

Rumple

11-398/15531

A FEB 8. 1969.

Per -

16.d

---

## Page 30

----

UNIT

Ins Reply, Placre Refer 10

File No.

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Atlanta, Georgia

January 31, 1969

:

ASSASSINATION OF

DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

APREP I TENNESSE

The January 29, 1969, edition of "The Washington Post"

newspaper contained an article

which quoted Rev. Ralph David

Abernathy, President of the Southern Christian Leadership

Conferent, as indicating in a news conterence

that a conspiracy

regard to the assassiantion of Dr. Martin Luther

King, Jr.

On January 30, 1969, Rev. Abernathy was interviewed

by a Special Agent of the FBI

at Atlanta, Georgia, and the

results

are set forth on the following page.

NOT COTATED

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and 15

loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be dis-

tributed outside your agency.

....-

FROLECURE

44-38861-5531

_NW. 55032

DocId: 32989740 Page 30

---

## Page 31

FD-202 (Ror.815-641

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dats

tai

казу 81, 2989

statonant to the press, ich vas proted la the fanbinaton

Indication to his that thare say bo

sorces of ovil to do away with any young militait who stands

fOr IIghteOUInONs: BOY. ABIINATIY adtIsod that he bRs DO

specille inforustion or other aridance that a conspiracy aristo

Ith rompect to tha apacIliC annansieation of tI. XIna....

advleed that the statement made to the press on dauary to,.

1968, In which he safarxed to a bonspiracy concernod the

ANNARNIRAtIOn of all of the aboVe-MaNtIOnod parMONs. IN FOgAId

tO THORO ANNRSSINATIOM DO VINO 1I CLARI DO LRS DO OTISONOS

Win part that such a ponspiracy doon axlet, Ia utated he lan

no ides what IndivIduala of SOrCes Mald be LAvOlved ln Much

DaY. ABLUKATHY advined that noveral monthe ago lay.

JANES LATION, Minintor of the Contanary sethodiat thurch at

XaY. ABERNATY, that it was sov.

DI DE. KING, tOO MONTO IITANds, Tho had boon asBigned to 3h0

1ixo station scrons the strost fron the notel there Do. LING

vas x1llod, mere noved to another l1ra station. According to

Roy. HAlson that nore loft the shr0 statton senanned and they

voro noved to a station walch man already fully manned and

aquippod. AlMO ACCOIdLAS tO MAY. LAVION, a MOgTO pOLICeMAn,

Tho worked the boat which included the notel where Dr. JING vas

k1lled, vas soved off of that boat :8 as.

k1llod, AprIl A, 1088, bat prlor to the tilling.

On 1/30/62

-attlent

Ватуія

_FIl#Atlanta 11-2388

DYNA D: RICHAND JANITOR

_Date dictated.

1/21/69

This document contolns nolther recommendalions nos conclusions of the FBI. Il is the property of the FBI and la loaned lo your agency:

Il and ils contente ara nol to ba dialribulad aulside your agency.

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 31

---

## Page 32

1.4

62-117295

_NH. 55032

DocId: 32989740. Page 32_

---

## Page 33

SELECT COMICEE ON ASSIS IN RIONS

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENT TIVES

D.C. 20515.

I RE: RAY V. TENNESSES, CR. INDICTIN

NUMBER 16645, SUELEY COUNTY, TA.

SI TEENT OF, JIMES E. RAY.

ALL INFORRATION CONTAINED

•I PHIA IS

DATE S(28/86

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 33

---

## Page 34

THE STATEHEIT I AM ABOUT TO GIVE THIS COILITTEE IS ESSENLIALLY •

THE SAME TESTIKONI I WOULD HAVE GIVES THE TRIAL COURT IN HEPATS,.

TENNESSEE, IN 1969 IF THAT COURT WOULD HAVE BAD TRE FORTITUDE 10

HAVE ORDERED A PUELIC TRIAL INTO THE MURDER OF DR. HARILE LUTEER

KING JI., RATHER,

A MANTIC CUMBERS HEY VITE ME ATTORTEY

WHO WAS ALLEGEDLY

REPRESENTING ME, PERCY FOREMAN, AND CAPITULATING

TO THE WISHES OF ILE DOMINANE COMMERCIAL PUELISHIUG COMPANIES &

THE COMPANIES

SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS WITH THE IUTHLLIGEICE COMMUNITIES.

IN ESSENCE I WOULD

BAVE-OL HE

TRIAL COURT & JURY THAT I DID NOT

SBOOT MARTIN LUTHER KING JI. JUST AS I AM ROW TELLING THIS CONHITTEE,

AND IF I HOULD HAVE HAD A LAWYER TO REPRESENT ME, I COULD HAVE OFFERED

CONCLUSIVE PROOF LA SUPPORT OF THE DENIAL.

I KNOW SEVERAL LARGE PUBLISHING HOUSES WORKING WITH THE F.B.I.

HAVE OFFERED UP VARIED MOTIVATIONAL ALLEGATIONS -WHICK ARE REFERED, :

TO BELOW - TO SUPPORT TRE GOVERIMENT'S CASE AGAINST HE, BUT IT WAS

NOT I WHO POSTED MARTIN LUTHER KING HOTES SUGGESTING HE BILL HIMSELF,

RATHER IT WAS JHE P-B.I.; NORWAS IT JIL WITHESS WEO CELRERATED UPOX

HEARING OF HIS MURDER, THAT IO WAS THE F.B.I - AID IT HAS ALSO IOT

I WHO IN THE 1930'& THFECTED FLACK'S WITH SYPHILIS GERIS FOR EXPER-

IKENTAL PURPOSES THEN DECLINED TO TREAT THEM, THAT WAS THE ACTION

OF A COVERIMENT BODI WITH TEE ACQUIESCENCE OF INE DOMINANT PRESS.

IN RESPECT'S TO THE GUILTI PLEA I MADE IN THE KIVC CASE, IT IS

NOT A DIFFICULT MATTER FOR AR ATTORMEY IO MANEUVER BIS CLIENT INTO

A GUILTI PLEA IO A CRIKIVAL INDICHFAT, ESPECIALLI WITH ME APTORNEY

HAS THE ACTIVE COOPERAZION OF THE JUDGE & PROSECUTOR, AND I AM SURE

AW 55032 Spade 3989740 payEes ke

---

## Page 35

IVERI NESBER OF TELS COLMITTEE VITH LEGAL TRAINIG KIOUS TITS!

BUT THE PUBLIC DOSITE, THEY THIK OF CUILIE PLEAS AS THEY USED

TO THINK OF THE F.R-I., THAT THE PLEAS ARE MADE IN LEAVEN. FURITER,

EVERY JUDGE WIO HAS LAYED HAEDS OR TITS CASE KEDUS THE PLEA WAS

PROCURED BY PRAUDID THEREFORE KUSH A TRIAL SEOULD HAVE BEET

ORDERED. BUT THE COURTS HAVE BEEN PORE THIZUEETN BY AY- EDITORIALS

IMBEDDED IN "TIHE"

MAGAZINE ARTICLES ABOUT THE CASB TRAN TREL HAVE

IB LIE LAW BOOKS.

BUT HAYBE I SHOULD BE IN JAL EXHOUCH BOT FOR SHOOTING ALYONE

RATHER BEING FOOLISH

DUCHT TO RETURN TOLL LEGAL SHAKE PIT, EVEN IF

THE OFFER WAS FORT KNOX & CHARLIE'S ANGELS TO

SPEND IT ON, ONCED I

HAD REACHED CANADA IN 196?.

I BELIEVE WEAT EVER THIS COMITTEE'S ULTIMATE FILDINGS ARE IN

THIS MATTER IT WILL HAVE PERFORMED A VALUARLE SERVICE, IF UNIUTENTION

AL, IN UNMASKING THE UNITED STATES JUDICIAL SYSTEUS OPERATION,

LEAGUE WITH DOHINANT PUBLISHING COMPANIES, IN RAZUROADING INNOCENT

DEFENDANT'S

IN CONTROVERSAT CRIKINAL CASES INTO PRISON, THEN CORTRIE

UTING TO

THE SAVAGING OF THE DEFENDANTS T

SOLITARY CONFITEMENT,

DET WE ME DEERS TR NOISE

BECAUSE THE DEFENDARTS INSISTED ON PROVISIONS GARANTEED THEY UNDER

THE FEDERAL COUSTITUIION AND LACKED THE POLITICAL INFLUENCE TO CLAIN

IT. THAT IS, FOR CLASS OR OTHER REASONS THET HERE OUT OF EATOR WISTE

THE DOMIKAT PRESS. IN THIS RESPECI, THE SUBDICATED COLUMNISI, CAPT

ROHIT, HAS WRITTEN TO TRE BEFECT INAT "IF ANY GROUP IN THE URITED

STATES DOES BOT HAVE IMELIRICE HITH THE DOMINANT PRESS TREY CAT

EXPECT TO BE GROUND UNDER,

8. 2

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 35

---

## Page 36

FINALLY, IT WOULD APPEAR THAT THE LAST ACT PERIORED EX TIE

INTELLIGEICE AGENCIES/PUSLISHING EPIRES WHET A PUELIC FICURE

IS HURDERED, AND THE ALLEGED HURDERER IS DECIDED UPOH, IS FOR THE

CONSTRUCTION OF A "PSYCHOLOGICAL PROFILE" FOR SHE EDIFICATION OF

THE JUDICIARY,

• IN THE INSTAIR CISE THE "PSYCIOLOGICAL PROFILE" AS PROOFED

BY TRE E.B.I.;

"I'LITE" MAGAZINES

"TIKE'S" LEGIAI, CEORGE MOULIA,

AND UNITED PRESS

SRITATIONAL

CHA

CTERIZES THE WITHESS AS THUS:

1... A MARCOTIC ADDICT.

2e A HARCOTIC PEDDLER.

TIKE" MAG. JAH, 26, 1976 ISSUE.

"

88

87

3. A SEX DEVIATE, TIPE UXEXPLAINED.

4o MAINLINED DRUGS.

81

10

81

F.BAI /UPP.I. WIRESERVICE

RELEASE, JANUARY. 25,1978-

88

88

"

88

/ 88

5. WENT INSANE, 1963-64 period.

6. CONSTARTLY READ GIRLIE HAGAZINES

18

7. SENT

OBSCENE LETTER TO POST OFFICE,

1967-68 Parlod....

8 PLAGUED.

TWO WOMEN WITH LATE HICHT

TELEPHONE CALLS, 1967-68 period.

S. INVOLVED IN DRUG TRAFFIC

LASTI, CHEATED FELLOW PRISONERS IN

CROOKED GARD GAMES..

18

8

IN REGARD TO THE ABOVE MENTIONED "PSYCHOLOGICAL PROFILE", I WILI

ACCEPT IHE "PROFILE" AS IDE TYPE PERSON VRO WOULD SEOOT FARTIN LUTHER

KING JI-, FURTHER, AS I DID IN A LETTER IO AFTOFBI GERA, ERIFFIE

BETI (EXH. B), IP ANY ONE OF ILE AFORE ENTIONED ACCUSATIONS CAN BE

SUBSTANTIATED BY THE RECORD: PRISON RECORDS; HILITARI RECORDS;

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 36

---

## Page 37

..?M

talenti

EMPLOMENT RECORDS, OR ALY RESPOUSIELE OFFICIAL, COUVERSARE

WITH SAID RECORDS, THEN I WILL APPEAR BEFORE 'CIS COSTTEE AND

TAKE FULL RESPORSIBILITY FOR THE KING MURUEP--INER I RAFERS 10

"RECORDS", THAT DOES ROT INCLUDE P.B.I. PURCHASED INFORMATION

FROM THEIR INFORMERS-

WHILE THE COVERIZ/COVERT PRESS HAS SIG SISSEUNG

THE AFOREZENTIONED

"PROFILE" CHARACTERIZATION, THE F.B.I. HAS ALSO

HARASSING VARIOUS MEMBERS OF MY FAMILI IN ORDER TO MANUEVER TREL INTO

A POSITION WHEREBY

HEY FOULD HAVEN

JU PERUURE THEISALVES AGAINST HE

IN SOME HANKER RELATED IO IHE KING CASS

I ORDER 10 ESCAPE PRISON

THEMSELVES, FOR INSTANCE:

1. THE F.B.I. EVIDENTLY BURGLARIZED MY SISTER, CARDI

PEPPER'S HOME IN 1968 LOOKING FOR INGRIMIRATING EVIDENCE.

(JACK ANDERSON, SYRDICATED COLUMN, HOVEBER 8, 1977.)

2. THE F.B. I. HAD MY BROTHER, JOHN I. RAIN PROSECUTED &

CONVICTED FOR AIDING & ABETTING A BANK ROBBERY, AND THE

TERIAL JUDGE, HOW F.B.I. DIRECIOR, WILLIAM I. WEBSTER,

I SENTENCE HIM IO EIGETEEN YEARS;

WalKS THE ACTUAI ROBBER

LATER HAD HIS CHARGE TRANSFERED, 1O THE E.D. OF CALIFORNIA

WHERE FRAUDE AD HOCKER SECED IE ROBBRI

EIGHTEEN MONTES.

3. AND THE WIRESERVICES REPORTED ON AUGUST 8,1978, THAT

TEE F.B.I. HAD PAIED AB INFORMER, OLIVER PATTERSON,

TO: STEAL LETTERS;. WIRETAP CONVERSATIONS, eCt., FROM

ABOTHER BROTHER, TERRI Ho RAI.

MW 55032

DocId: 32989740

Page 37

---

## Page 38

•

ON APRIL, 23, 1967, I ESCAPED FROR THE MISSOURI STATE PRISON IN A BREAD

BOX IN THE MANNER AS FOLLONSS

SEVERAL DAYS PRIOR TO THE ESCAPE I FASHIONED A BOARD APPROXIMATALY 3XL

FEET WHICH WOULD FIT INSIDE A BOX USED TO TRANSPORT BREAD OUTSIDE THE

PRISON. IN ADITION, I MADE SEVERAL HOLSS IN THE IONERS SIDES OF THE BOX

WITH A HAUMER & NAIL.

THEREAFTER ON APRIL 23, 1967, I ENTERED THE PRISON

KITICHEN EARLY (I WORKED AFTERNOONS ), AT APPROXIMATELY 8:00AM. LATER I

ENTERED THE BREAD ROOM WHERE BREAD FROM THE BAKERY WAS LOADED INTO THE

BOX TO BE TRUCKED TO

A PRISONS

METIME AFTER ENTERING THE BREAD

ROOM I GOT INTO THE BAGAD BOX AND COVERED HYSELF WITH THE 3XL FOOT BOARD.

THEREAFTOR A PRISONER

ILLED THE BOX WITH BREAD

AND THEN TRANSFERED THE

BOX DO:NSTAIRS VIA ELEVATOR ONTO A PLATFORM USED TQ LOAD TRUCKS TRANSPORTING

ITEMS OUTSIDE THE PRISON COMPOUND. SHORTLY THERZAFTER THE BOX, WITH ME

ENCLOSED, WAS PLACED ON A WAITING TRUCK. THE TRUCK THEN PROCEEDED THROUGH

A PRISON SECURITY GATE WHERE A GUARD SEARCHED THE BOX

BY RAISING THE LID

AND VIEWING INSIDE. AFTER PASSING THROUGH THE PRISON

CATE I GOT OUT OF

THE BOX. AFTER THE TRUCK CROSSED THE MISSOURI RIVER

BRIDGE, NEARBY THE

PRISON FARM,

IT STOPPID BEFORE TURNING INTO THE ROSS LEADING IO THE FARM;

WHEN THE TRUCK STOPPED I DISEMBARKED. I THEN CROSSED THE HIGHWAY, TURNED

RIGHT, AND FOLIONED A DIRT ROAD-UNCH 'OME UPON SVERAL JUNKED AUTOMOBILES.

I STAYED IN ONE OF THE VECHICLES UNTIL DARK, THEN LEFT THE VECHICLE, CROSSED

UNDER THE BRIDGE THAT I HAD PREVIOUSIY CROSSED IN THE BREAD TRUCK. I THEN

MADE MY WAY TO A NEARBY RAILROAD TRACK. ( I HAD DEPARTED THE PRISON WITH

SEVERAL CANDY BARS AND IN ADDITION HAD TAKEN SOME BREAD FROM THE BREAD

TRUCK; I HAD ALSO TAKEN FROM THE PRISON ON BY PERSON APPROXIMATELY $250.00.

AND A RADIO ALONG WITH A SOCIAL SECURITY CARD NUMBER REGISTERED UNDER THE

p. 5

NW 55032 Docid: 32989740 Page 38

---

## Page 39

NW 55032

NAKE OF, JOHN L. RAYNS & TWO PHONE NUMBERS.)

AFTER A PERIOD OF WALKING THE RAILROAD TRACKS I GROSSED VIA A SWITCH

ONTO ANOTHER SET OF TRACKS. AFTER WALKING THO OR THREE NIGHTS ON THE

TRACKS, AND SLETPING DAYS, AND HAVING RAN OUT OF FOOD, I CAME UPON A

TRAILER. APPARENTIY THE TRAILER WAS INTENDED AS A FISHING CABIN AS I

BELIEVE IT WAS LOCATED NEAR A RIVER. I ENTERED THE TRAILER AND FOUND A

BOTTLE CONTAINING WINE AND SEVERAL ITEIS OF FOOD. UPON LEAVING THE

TRAILER I HAD THS WINE & FOOD WITH,ME IT IS MY RECOLLECTION THAT DURING

THIS APPROXIMATE PERIOD

AGAIN CROSSED A SWITCH ONTO ANOTHER TRACK; HOW-

EVER, DURING ALL OF THE

ALKING I WAS MOVING IN THE GENERAL DIRECTION OF

KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI.

ON THE 4th OR 5th DAY OUT I WAS ALSO TRAVELING BY

DAY. ON ONE OF THESE DATS IT CONMENCED RAWING AND I MOVED UNDERNEATH .

A TRUSSEL AND STARTED A

RIRE. SHORTLY THEREAFTER A HANDCAR STOPPED OVER •

THE TRUSSEL. THE TWO OPERATORS OF THE CAR DISDIBARKED AND ENQUIRED OF ME

ABOUT THE SMOKE. I EXPLAINED I HAD BEEN CAUGHT IN THE RAIN AND HAD

STARTED THE FIRE TO DRY OUT. THEY SAID ALRIGHT AND LEFT ( DURING THIS

PERIOD MY SHOES HAD FRUL OFF CONSEQUENTLY I HAD TO MAKE A FORCIBLE

ENTRY INTO A STORE TO OBTAIN ANOTHER PAIR).

ON THE GTH DAY I OBSERVED A SMALI TOWN. THAT EVENING I ENTERED THE TOWN,

PURCHASED FOOD & DRINK, THEN RETURNED TO THE RAILROAD YARDS. LATER THAT

EVENING I CAUGHT

A FRIEGHT TRAIN TRAVELING IN THE DIRECTION OF SI. LOUIS,

MISSOURI. I ARRIVED IN ST. LOUIS WHILE IT WAS STILL DARK. AFTER A PERIOD

OF WAITING IN THE RAILROAD YARDS, AND WHEN IT COFFENCED TO LIGHTEN, I

WADS MY WAY TO SOUTH SI. LOUIS TO THE RESIDENCE OF AN INDIVIDUAL HO

CALLED HIMSELF THE ~ CATHAN, HIS APPARENT GIVEN NAME BEING, JACK GORWIN.

I INTENDED FOR MR. GORWIN TO ARRANGE FOR MY TRANSPORTATION TO EDHARDSVILLE,

BOLINOISSa HOW VERSe ORWIN WAS NOT HOME THEREFORE I CAUGHT A TAXI TO, EAST

---

## Page 40

THEREAFTER I CAUGHT ANOTHER TAXI TO EDWARDSVILLE, ILLINOIS, THEN THE BUS

STATION WHEREIN I BOARDED A BUS BOUND FOR CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. ALTHOUGH

I AM NOT CERTAIN I BELIEVE I PAYED THE BUS DRIVER THE FARE RATHER THAN

PURCHASING A TICKET IN THE STATION• UPON ARRIVING IN CHICAGO ON APRIL

30, 1967, I MADE MY WAY TO 2731 NORTH SHEFFIELD AND RENTED A ROCH•

ON MAY 3, 1967, I APPLIED FOR A JOB AS DISHWASHER AT THE INDIAN TRAI

RESTAURANT IN WINNETKA, ILLINOIS, A CHICAGO SUBURB-I LEARNED OF THE JOB

FROM AN ADVERTISELINT IN THE CHICAGO TRIBUNS NONSP

SEEN T RECEIVZO THE

JOB AND SHORTLY THEREAFTER&I PURCHASED A 1960 CHRYSLER FOR $100.00. I

PURCHASED THE CHRYSLER IN ORDER TO ACCUMULATE IDINTIFICATION &

COMHUTE TO & FROM WORK. I ALSO TOOK A DRIVER'S TEST AND PASSED; HOWEVER,

ALTHOUGH I REGEIVED A TRIPORARY

DRIVING P

RMIT-I NEVER RECEIVED THE

PERMANENT LICENSE. I USDDATHE NAME, JOHN Le

RAYNS, DURING THIS PERIOD.

WHILE I WAS EMPLOYED BY THE AFORZMENTIONED RESTAURANT I WROTE THE

CANADIAN COUNSEL IN CHICAGO INQUIRING ABOUT CANADIAN IMHIGRATION PROCEDURE;

IN REPLY THE COUNSEL MAILED ME SEVERAL BROCHURES.

CON OR ABOUT JUNE 27,

1967, I TERMINATED EMPLOYENT AT THE INDIAN TRAIL RESTAURANT. THERZAFTER

I DROVE TO QUINCY, ILLINOIS, TO WAIT FOR THE LAST CHECK TO CLEAR FROM

SAID RESTAURANT EMPLOYMENT. IT WAS ALSO MY

INTENTION TO VISIT WHILE IN

QUINCY AN AUNT, MRS. FRANK FULLER, AND SEE ONE

OR THO ACQUAINTANCES. I

STAYED IN QUINCY APPROXIMATELY 12 DAYS,

ALTHOUGH I DID NOT SEE MY AUNT•

DURING THE PERIOD

ALTERNATIVELY IN THO HOTELS; ONE

BEING LOCATED ON THE CORNER OF ZND AND O4K STREET, THE OTHER ON THE CORNER

OF 3RD AND OAK STREET. THE ONLY INDIVIDUAL THAT I SAW AND WAS FAMILIAR

cooley

WITH IN QUINCY WAS, TED CRONLEY,

PROPRIETOR OF A LOCAL CLUB. I MAY

HAVE TOLD MR. CROWLEY SOMETHING TO THE EFFECT THAT I HAD RECENTLY BEEN

NW 55032 DOOld:32089740 DEge 4DROU DRISAN. AFTER STAYING IN QUINCY. ILLINOIS, FOR

---

## Page 41

THE ABOVE MENTIONED PERIOD, I RETURNED TO WINNETKA, ILLINOIS, TO

PICK-UP THE CHECK I HAD COMING FROM THE INDIAN TRAIL RESTAURANT; IT

IS ALSO BY RECOLLBCTION THAT I CHECKED INTO A HOTEL LOCATED AT 161,8

WEST LUNT STRET FOR A COUPLE DAYS. AFTER PICKING UP THE CHECK I DECIDED

TO DRIVE TO EAST SI. LOISE, ILLINOIS, AND POSSIBLI SEE FARILY MEMBERS

BEFORE MOVING TO, CANADA. ON THE WAY TO EAST ST. LOUIS I DEVELOPED

CAR TROUBLE. I RICALI SPING IL JUG CHRISER NIGHT & A HIGHHAY

PATROIMAN WAKING & ASKING ME IF I HAD ANY PROBLES. IN EAST ST. LOUIS

I STAYED ONE NIGHT IN ABRUK DONN HOTEL, NEAR DOWNTO:N. THE NEXT DAY I

SOLD THE CHRYSLER TO

VIE TINTON OPERATOR FOR APPROX MATSEX $50.00;

I THEN PURCHASED IN EAST

ST. LOUIS ON JULY

1967, A RED PLYBOUTH FOR

$200.00 - I HAD A PROBLEM MAKING THE PURCHASE

ALTHOUGH I DON'T RECALL WHÁT

THE PROBLET WAS. I PHONED JACK " THE CATYAN" GOWRIN DURING THE DAY;

KET HIM IN EAST ST. LOUIS, AND HAD HIM PURCHASE ME

PISTOL FROM A

FENCE HE KNEW AND THAT HE COULD PAY FOR PENSION DAY

I TOLD CORRIN

TO TELL AX FAMILY MOBERS THAT I MAS LEAVING THE COUNTRY AND HOULD

TRY TO CONTACT THIM LATER; AND FOR HIM NOT TO MENTION TO THE POLICE THAT

HE HAD SAW ME UNLESS HE WANTED TO GO TO JAIL.

LATER THAT DAY I DROVE TO

INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA, STAYING IN A HOTIL

PHAT NIGHT. THE NEXT DAY I

CROSSED INTO CANADA VIA ME-WINDSOR TUNNEL IN DETROIT, MICHIGAN. I

SLEPT ALONG THE ROAD THE NIGHT OF JULY 16, 1967, AND THE NEXT DAY

I ENTERED THE ENVIRONS OF MONTREAL, CANADA, STAYING IN A MOTEL PART OF

THE DAX.

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 41

---

## Page 42

25.00

150.00

25.00

THE DAY I ENTERED MONTREAL PROPER ONE OF THE FIRST THINGS I DID WAS

ENQUIRE OF A TRAVIL AGGI, VIA TELEPHONE, THE PROCEDURE FOR A CANADIAN

TO ACQUIRE A CANADIAN PASSPORT. I HAS INFORMED THAT I MUST HAVE A

GUARANTOR WHO WOULD TESTIFY THAT HE/SHE HAD KNOWN ME FOR THO YEARS.)

THAT EVENING IN MONTREAL ON ST. CATHERINE EASI, IN A NIGHT CLUB, I

WAS ACCOSTED BY A PROSTITUTE, SUBSEQUANTLY I AGRRID TO GO TO HER PLACE

VIA TAXICAB. AFTER WE GOT LOCATED IN HER APARTMENT I GAVE HER THE RE_

QUESTED $25.00 PES ANDORE CALLIS ME MONEY TO AN PORTIC, WHEN I

LEFT I WROTE DOWN THE

DDRESS OF THE BUILDING. THE NEXT DAY I RENTED

AN APARIMENT IN THE, HIR-K-APARTMENTS, LOCATED AT, 2589 NOTRE DAME EAST;

THEN LATER, I PARKED ME AUROMOBI

OSED TO THE BUILDING WHERE I HAD THE

• NIGHT BEFORE BEN WITH THE PROSTITUTE.

THAT EVENING I RETURNED TO THE

AFOREMENTIONED NIGHT CLUB AND, MEETING THE SAMS GIRL, AGAIN ACCOMPANIED

HER VIA TAXI TO HER APARTMENT. INSIDE HER APARTMENT I GAVE HER ANOTHER.;•

$25.00 BUT THIS TIME I SHOWED HER THE PISTOL MR. GORWIN HAD PURCHASED FOR'

ME AND TOLD HER I WOULD GO WITH HER TO WHERE EVER SHE WAS TAKING THE MONEY.

WHEN SHE AROUSED THE MANAGER INTO OPENING THE "OFFICE

DOOR I PUT THE

PISTOL ON HIM. WE MOVED BACK INTO THE OFFICE WHERED I ASKED HIM FOR THE

MONEY. TAKING OUT HIS WALLET HE OFFERED ME THE SMACI AMOUNT IN II, ABOUT

5 OR 10 DOLLARS.

WHEN I TOLD HIM I WANTED THE

REST OF THE MONEY, HE

SPOKE ABOUI A CABINET NEARBY AND MOTIONED TO A CONTAINER. BIPORE LEAVING

THE "OFFICE", I HAD THE MANAGER LIE ON A BED AND THE GIRL REMOVE HER

STOCKING AND TIE HIS HANDS & LBCS. I THEN HAD HER GET UNDER THE BED

BEFORE DEPARTING. LATER I FOUND I HAD TAKEN APPROXIMATELY $1.700,00

IN MIXED CURRENCY FROM THE MANAGER'S OFFICE.

DURING THE NEXT FEW DAYS I PURCHASED CLOTHING AND DECIDED THE ONLY WAY

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 42

---

## Page 43

I COULD: COME BY TRAVEL DOCUMENTS IN ORDER TO LEAVE CANADA WOULD BE

TO EITHER PERSUADE SONDONE TO ACT AS MY GUARANTOR OR, PERHAPS ROLL

A DRUNKING SEAVAN FOR HIS SEAMAN'S PAPERS, DURING THE NEXT COUPIE OF

WEEKS I DID SPEND CONSIDERABLE TIME NEAR THE MONTREAL DOCK AREA

FREQUENTING BARS. I WAS NEVER ABLE TO COME BY MERCHANT SEAMAN PAPERS

ALTHOUGH I DID CONTACT AN INDIVIDUAL WHO INTRODUCED HISELF AS ROUAL. I

FIRST MET HIM IN THE NEPTUNE TAVERNA 121 WEST COMISSIONERS STREET. HIS

WAS APPROXINATELY 35 PRO-MORTARS OLD, ZIO INCHES TALI, WITH DARK HAIR

2

AND A RED TINT IN ITH HE SPOKE WITH A SLIGHT SPANISH ACCENT. I ASSUMED

• FROS HIS DEVIANOR & CONVERSATION THAT OUR INTEREST COULD BE COPATIBLE,

AND AFTER A COUPLE MESTING IT WAS ESTABLISHED THAT I WAS INTERESTED IN

SOME TYPE TRAVEL DOCUMENTS, WHILE HIS INTEREST WAS IN LOCATING SOMEONE

WHO WOULD, FOR A PRICE HELP HIM MOVE SOME TYPE CONTRABAND THROUGH

UNITED STATES CUSTOMS AT THE CANADIAN

BORDER. DURING THE INITIAL

MEETING WITH ROUAL, PERHAPS 3 OR 4, NOTHING

WAS DECIDED DEFINITELY

MAINLY BECAUSE I HAD DECIDED TO TAKE A VACATION IN A LAURONTIAN MOUNTAIN

RESORT AND WHILE THERE ENLIST THE ASSISTANCE

SORIZONE, PREFERABLE

FELALE, IN PROCURING A CANADIAN PASSPORT, i.eop

ATTE PTING TO FIND

SOMEONE WHO WOULD ACT AS MY GUARANTOR IN MAKDIG

APPLICATION FOR A

PASSPORT • SUBSEQUENTLY I DID DRIVE TO THE

GRAY ROCKS INN, IN THE

LAURENTIAN MOUNTAINS, AND MET A WOMAN AND LATER SAW HER AGAIN IN THE

CANADIAN CAPITOL OF OTTAWA. HOWEVER, I LEARNED SHE WAS EPLOYED BY THE

CANADIAN GOVERMENT AND THUS CONSIDBRED IT ILL ADVISED TO DISCUSS THE

GUARANTOR QUESTION WITH HER. THEPEFORE IN RETURNING TO MONTREAL FROM

THE LAURENTIANS KOUNTAINS I HAD DECIDED TO ACCEPT ANY REASONABLE PROPO

SITION ROUAL MIGHT OFFER IN RETURN FOR TRAVEL DOCUMENTS.

NW 55032

DocId: 32989740 Page 43

---

## Page 44

AFTER' I RETURNED TO MONTREAL I DID MEET WITH ROVAL SEVERAL MORE

TIMES. HIS PROPOSALS, AND MY ACCEPTANCE, WERE IN ESSENCE:

1) THAT I WOULD MEST HIS IN WINDSOR, CANADA, AT APPROXIMATELY

3:00PM AUGUST 21, 1967, NEAR THE RAILROAD STATION IN MY

AUTOMOB IL.B.

2) THAT HE WOULD THEN PROVIDE ME WITH CERTAIN PACKAGES TO

TRANSPORT ACROSS ME BORDER INTO THE BITES STATES.

3) THAT I WOULD FOR TRANSPORTING THE PACKAGES INTO THE UNITES.

STATES BE PROVIDED WITH TRAVEL DOCUMENTS AND AND UNSPECIFIED

AMOUNT OF MONEY®

L) THAT THERAPIE NO S

IL THE PLYMOUTH AUTOMOBILE AND

TRAVEL TO BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA, WHERZIN I WOULD AGAIN MEET

ROUAL, FOR SOME SIMULAR TYPE SMUGGLING OPERATION APPARENTLY

IN MEXICO— ROUAL HAD INITIALLY SUGGESTED THAT I GO TO

MOBILE, ALABAMA.

I ACCEPTED THE ABOVE MENTIONED PROPOSALS, ALTHOUGH IT WAS MY INTENTIONS

ONCED I LAYED HANDS ON THE TRAVEL DOCUMENTS TO PESTURNITO CANADA.

ON AUGUST

27, 1967, AT APPROXIMATELY 3: 00PM I WAS PARKED NEAR THE WINDSOR,

CANADA, RAILROAD STATION AND AFTER WAITING A HALE HOUR OR LESS ROVAL CAME

TO THE PLYMOUTH WITH AN ATTACHE CASE, ENTERED THE AUCMOBILE, IND SAID

"LETS GO". STARTING FHE-AUTOMOBILE HE DIRECTED ME TOWARD A SIDE STREST

WHERE IN HE MOVED INTO THE BACK SEAT AFTER STOPPING AND PLACED THRRE PACKAGES

UNDER THE BACK REST, THEN RETURNING TO THE FRONT SEAT HE DIRECTED ME TOWARD

THE TUNNEL THAT CONNECTS WINDSOR WITH DETROIT, MICHIGAN. BEFORE WE ARRIVED AT

THE TUNNEL ENTRANCE HE ASK ME TO LET HIM OUT SAYING HE WOULD CROSS SEPERATELY

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 44

+ 19

---

## Page 45

AND FOR ME TO PICK HIM UP ON THE UNITED STATES SIDE. HE SAID HE WOULDD

CROSS IN' A CAB AND TO GIVE HIM A FEN MINUTES BEFORE I CROSSID. I CLEARED

THE CUSTOMS WITH NO DIFFICULITY AND PICKED UP ROVAL ON THE UNITED STATES

SIDE OF THE TUNNEL. HE THEN DIRECTED ME TO ANOTHER SIDE STREET WHERE HE

REMOVED THE PACKAGES. I THEN DROVE HIM TO THE DETROIT BUS STATION. LETTING

HIM OUT HE TOLD ME TO STORE TO WINDSOR AND WAIT AT THE SAME PLACE AS SPORE.

I THEN RETURNED TO THE WINDSOR RAILROAD STATION AND AFTER 10 OR 15 MINUTES

EQUAL APPEAPED AGAIN

AND HE REPEATED THE PROCEDURE EXCEPT THIS TIME WE

TRAVELED OVER THE BRIDGE CONNECTING THE THO COUNTRIES. HONIVER, WHILE

WAITING IN LINE TO CROSS

SORIOCE

NOTICED CUSTOM'S OFFICERS HERE

SEARCHING SEVERAL OF

AUTOMOBILES AHEAD OPIE.

RECALLING I HAD A

TELEVISION SET IN THE PLYNOUTH, WHICH I WAS REQUIRED TO DECLARE AT CUSTONS,

AND WISHING TO AVOI A SEARCH OF THE PLYMOUTH, I DEC

SLAND THE TALEVISION

SET. THE CUSTOM'S OFFICER THEN DIRECTED ME INTO A SPECIAL LANE AND WAS IN

THE PROCESS OF SEARCHING THE PLYMOUTH WHEN ANOTHER CUSTOM'S OFFICER

APPEARED AND, AFARZUTLY ORDEFING THE FIRST CUSTON'S OFFICER TO OTHER

DUTIES, TOLD ME TO PAY A TELEVISION TAX IN CUSTOM'S OFFICE AND LEAVE.

WHEN I LATER MET ROUAL ON THE UNITED STATES SIDE OF THE BRIDGE HE APPEARED

SOMEWHAT NERVOUS, AND I INFORMED HIM I HAD BEEN HELD UP BY CUSTOMS AND

SHOWED HI

THE TELEVISION TAX-RECEIPT PROVIDED

BY CUSTOMS. WE THEN

DROVE TO A SIDE STREET IN DETROIT AND MOVING INTO THE BACK OF THE

PLYMOUTH HE REZOVED THE THREE PACKAGES FROM BEHIND THE BACK SOAT BACK

HEST. MOVING BACK INTO THE FRONT SEAT OF THE PLYMOUTH ROVAL GAVE ME

APPROXIMATELY $1.500.00 IN MIXED CURRENCY HOWEVER, OFFERING SOME EXCUSE,

HE SAID HE WAS UNABLE TO OBTAIN THE TRAVEL DOCUMENTS ALTHOUGH HE DID

1S. URE ME HE WOULD BE ABLE TO COME BY THE PAPERS AT A LATER DATE. HE ALSO

SUGGESTED I DISPOSE OF THE OLD PLYMOUTH THEN WE WOULD PURCHASE A LATER

NW 55032 • DocId: 32989740 •Page 45

---

## Page 46

MODEL AUTONOBILE WIEN WE MET IN BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA. HE THEN TOLD MIS

HE WOULD WRITE ME IN C/O GENERAL DELIVERY BIPHINGHAM, ALABAMA, UNDER THE GALT :

NAME;

ALSO, HE GAVE ME A NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA, TELEPHONE NUBER IF I

NEED TO CONTACT HIS. THEREAFTER I LEFT HIS AT THE BUS STATION AND DROVE

TO CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, WHEREIN A GAVE MY BROTHER, JERRY W. RAY, THE PLYMOUTH

AND CAUGHT A TRAIN TO BIRLEGHAN

ALABAMA. I ARRIVED IN BIRMINGHAM ON

AUGUST 25, 1967, THE

EXT DAY I RENTED A ROCH AT 2608 HIGHLAND AVENUE UNDER

THE NAME OF, ERIC S. CUT. THE FOLLOWING MONDAY AUGUST 28, 1967, I CHECKED

AT THE GENERAL DELIVER WINDO: IN THE MAIN POST OF ICS ENQUIRING ABOUT MAIL

ADDRESSED TO ERIC GALT

THE POSTAI CLERK ASK ME FOR LY MIDDLE INITIAL

AND WHEN I SUPPLIED THE LETTER S HE GAVE ME A LETTER FROM ROVAL. IN THE

LETTER ROUAL ASK ME TO

T HIM AT T

TARLITE CAFE, LOCATED DIRECTLY

ACROSS THE STREST FROM WHE POST OFFICE, THAT

EVENING. LATER I MET HIM IN

THE STARLITE AND HE ASK ME TO TRY TO LOCATED FOR SALE A LATE MODEL AUTONOBILE.

THE NEXT DAY I FOUND THROUGH A NEWSPAPER ADD A 1966 MUSTANG. THAT EVENING

I AGAIN MET ROUAL IN THE STARLITE AND DESCRIBED

THE MUSTANG TO HIM. HE SAID

IT SOUNDED

ALRIGHT AND THE NEXT MORNING HE GAVE

ME: $2.000.00 WITH INSTRUCTIONS

TO BUY THS MUSTANG. LATER IN THE MORNING I TOOK RITAXI TO 701 SOUTH 48th

STREET AND PURCHASED THE MUSTANG FROM IT'S OUTER MR. WILIAN D. PALSEY.

AFTEP. PURCHASING THE AUTOMOBILE I DROVE TO THE STARLITE CAFE, PICKED UP ROUAL,

AND FROM THE STARLITE ON

TO THE RESIDENGELT WAS STAYING AT ON HIGHLAND AVENUE,

PARKING ON A MALL IN FRONT OF THE RESIDENCE. BEFORS DEPARTING ROVAL ASK FOR,

AND I GAVE HIM, A SET OF KEYS TO THE MUSTANG; HE ALSO WROTE DOWN MY ADDRESS &

PHONE NUMBER HE THEN GAVE ME $500.00 FOR 'LIVING EXPELSES, AND ANOTHER

$500.00 FOR A LIST OF CAMERA EQUIPMENT. LASTLY, HE GAVE ME ANOTHER TELEPHONE

NUMBER LISTED IN BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA, AS A "BACK UP" NUMBER, AND SUGGESTED

I LAY LOW FOR A MONTH OR SO THEN HE WOULD CONTACT ME ABOUT THE BUSINESS AT HAND

NW 55032 DocId:32989740 Page 46

---

## Page 47

• AND THE VATTER OF TRAVEL DOCUMENTS FOR ME.

DURING MY STAY IN BIRMINGHAM, ALABAKA, I RENTED A BANK VAULT; ACCUMULATED

IDENTIFICATION UNDER THE GALT NAME, AND MADE THE CAMERA PURCHASES ROVAL

REQUESTED. I HAD ALSO CONTACTED A LINGERING VIRUS, APPAR-NTLY IN CANADA,

AND HAS TREATED FOR THE AILMENT BY A DR. SCHWARTZ IN, BIRMINGHAM. SUB-

SEQUINTLY I WAS COTTAGTO BE BOUALIS APRART RPRESENAIIVE ASKING MB

TO MEET ROUAL IN NEW ORLANS, LOUISISANA, IN EARLY OCTOBIA, 196%. ON OR

ABOUT OCTOBER 6, 1967,

IDSPARTED BIMINGHAY, ALABLMA, IN ROUTE TO NEH

ORLEANS, LOUISIANA, INTENUING TO ME IT ROVAL, IN, NEN ORLEANS. THE NEXT DAY,

OR THE DAY AFTER, UPON ARRANTIC IN BATON AQUES, LOUISIANA, I PHONED THE

BATON ROUGE NUMBEF ROUAL HAD GIVEN ME; UNABLE TO

REACH THE PARTY I THEN

PHONES THE NEW ORLEANS NUMBER AND DID REACH THIS PAR

I WAS TOLD TO

PROCEED ON TO NUEVO LAREDO, MEXICO, AND WAS GIVEN THE

NAME & ADDRESS OF A.

MOTEL TO CHECK INTO AFTEL: ARPIVING IN NUEVO LAREDO. BEFORE LEAVING BATON

ROUGE I FAILED BACK TO THE BIRMINGHAM BANK THE SAFETY DEPÖSIT VAULT KEY

ASSUKING I WOULD NOS BE RETURNING TO BIRMINGHA, ALABAMA.

UPON LEAVING

BATON HOUGS FOR MEXICO I BRIEFLY TRAVELED IN THE DIRECTION OR DALLAS, TEXAS,

INTENDING TO SEE AN INDIVIDUAL WHO WAS CONVERSANT WITH UNDERWORLD ACTIVITIES

ALONG THE BORDEH SEPKRATING THE UNITED STATES FROM MEXICO, HOWEVER, I SUB-

SEQUENTLY DECIDED AGAINST THE DALLAS IRI AND THEREFORE TURNED TOWARD SOUTH

TEXAS & MEXICO. I ARRIVED IN NUEVO LAREDO, MEXICO, ON OR ABOUT OCTOBER 7,

1967, IN THE EVENING. UPON ENQUIRY FROM A POLICEMAN OR CAB DRIVER I

LOCATED THE MOTEL I WAS EARLIER INSTRUCTED TO CHECK INTO. AFTER I HAD

SIGNED INTO THE MOTEL AND HAITED A COUPLE HOURS ROJAL APPEARED ASKING

HOW I HAS GETTING ALONG AND IF READY FOR BUSINESS. HE ASK IF I HAD A VISA

AND I REPLIED "NO. HE THEN SAID WE WOULD CROSS THE BORDER INTO THE UNITED

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 47

---

## Page 48

STATES AND TRANSPORT IN THE MUSTANG CERTAIN ITEMS INTO MEXICO. LEAVING

THE MOTEL WE DROVE DOIN TO THE LOCAL SQUARE WHERE I LET HIM OUT. HE SAID

TO GIVE HIM A FEN MINUTES TO CATCH A TAXI THEN TO MEET HIM ON THE OTHER

SIDE OF THE BORDER. PICKING HIM UP ON THE OTHER SIDB HE DIRECTED ME

NORTH FOR MAYBE 7 OR 8 BLOCKS, THEN WEST FOR A COUPLE MILES ENDING UP

ON A SIDE STRE:I BEHIND SOCHER MUTEMOBILE HAND OSSIDE A FRAME HOUSE. HE

THEN ROMOVED A TIRE FROM

THE OTHER AUTOSOBILE, PLACED IT IN THE TRUNK OF

OUR MUSTANG, AND DIRECTED

ME BACK TOWARD MEXICO. ON THE WAY TO THE MEXICAN

CUSTOMS HE TOLD ME TO APPLY FOR A VISA AND WHEN CUSTONS OFFICIALS COMANCED

SEARCHING THE MUSTANG GIVE TIEM EACH A DOLLAR AND THEY WOULD THEN ONLY MAKE

A PERFUNCTORY SEARCH. WHEN WE NEARED THE

MEXICAN CUSTON'S HOUSE ROUAL

GOT OUT OF THE MUSTANG SAYING TO PICK HIM UP E

HER BESIDE OR IN FRONT OF:

THE CUSTOM 'S HOUSE AFTER I GOT THE VISA. I THEN

APPLIED FOR THE VISA. THE

PEPISON WHO ISSUED THE VISA ASK FOR A VOTER REGISTARATION SLIP FOR IDENTIFICA

TION, BUT ACCEPTED A DRIVERS LICENSE & PUNK SLIP (TITL&

IN LIEU. WHEN

THE CUSTOMS OFFICER COM-ENCED SEARCHING THE MUSTANG & PEACING A CUSTOMS

MARK ON THE ITEMS

ENCLOSED I GAVE THEM EACH A DOLLAR AND

THEY WAIVED ME

THROUGH. AFTER LEAVING CUSTOM'S I PICKED UP ROUAL BES DE THE BUILDING AND

WE RETURNED TO THE MOTEL BY A CIRCUITOUS ROUTE.

I.

PULLED INTO THE MOTEL.

DRIVEWAY AND THE TIRE WAS REMOVED AND PLACED IN THE AUTOMOBILE IT WAS

ORIGINALLY RELOVED FROM EARLIER ON. ROUAL TOLD ME HE WOULD SEE ME AGAIN IN

THE MORNING, AND AS I BACKED OUT OF THE DRIVEWAY I BRIEFLY SAW THE PROFILE

OF THE PERSON DRIVING THE OTHER AUTOMOBILE. THE NEXT MORNING ROUAL SHOWED

UP, ASK IF I WERE READY, AND UPON AN AFFIRMATIVE REPLI, I CHECKEY OUT OF

THE MOTEL. UPON LEAVING HE RODE WITH ME FOR ABOUT 6 BLOCKS, THEN HE GOT

NW 5503ENTBOAT DIE STANQADE AAFTER TELLING ME TO FOLLOW THE OTHER CAR. ONCED

---

## Page 49

OUTSIDE THE CITY WE STOPPED AND AGAIN THE TIRE WAS PLACED IN HY

AUTONOBILE WITH ROVAL TELLING HE TO FOLION HIM UNTIL WE HAD CIRARED

THE INTERIOR CUSTON'S HOUSE. ABOUT FIFTY KILCHEPERS FURTHER ON WR

ENTERED THE CUSTON'S CHECK. ROUAL'S CAR WAS HELD UP; HOWEVER, AFTER

CHECKING MY BACK TAG I WAS WAIVED ON THROUGH BY THE INSPECTOR. LATER

A COUPLE KILONETARS DOWN THE ROAD ROUAL PASSED ME AND STOPPED IN FRONT

OF THE HUSTANG. ROUSIOT INTO TS NUSTANG AND OFFERS) SUE TYPE OF

APOLOGY ABOUT STILLEt

ABBINGABLE TO SOME BY-TRAVRE DOSUMENTS- FOR

ME; HOWSVER, HE GAVE

$2.000.00. HE THEN ASK'ME, IF AND WHERE HE COULD

MEET ME IN THE FUTURE.

I TOLD HIM I MOST LIKELY WOULD TRAVEL TO LOS

ANGELES, CALIFORNIA; HIS SAID THEN HE WOULD CONTACT ME THERE THROUGH

POST BY GENERAL DELIVER,. HE ALSO GAVE ME ANOTHER NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA,

TELEPHONE NUMBER AND ASK IF

I AT"THE OLD-HEN ORLEANS NUBER - I THINK

I GAVE THE OLD NUMBER TO HIM.

TRAVILING THRCUGH PEXICO I ULTIMATELY ENDED UP IN PUERTO VALLERTA.

DURING MY STAY IN PUERTO VALLERTA I ATTENTED TO TRADE THE MUSTANG FOR

A PIECE OF REAL ESTATE PROPERTY, THUS STAY IN LEXICOIT ALSO SAN AN

ADVERTISEMENT IN THE U.S. NEWS AND WORLD REPORT NEWS

i AGAZINE ASKING

FOR PERSONS INTERESTED TO MAKE APPLICATION FOR I-NICRATION TO RHODESIA-

I WROTE

TO THE ADDRESS LIST FOR INFORMATION ABOUT THE MATTER BUT NEVER

RECEIVED

REPLY WHILE IN MEXICO.

I DEPARTED PUERTO VALLERTA, MEXICO, ON

ARTARE

OR ABOUT NOVEBER 15, 1967,

TRAVEL ING NORTH TONARE THE UNITSO STATES. ON THE WAY I GAVE A

HITCH HIKER A RIDE TO THE BORDER. AFTER ARRIVING NEAR THE BURDER

SEPERATING MEXICO FROM THE UNITED STATES I STAYED OVER NIGHT IN A

MOTEL AT TIJUANA. THE NEXT DAY IN PREPARING TO LEAVE THE MOTEL FOR

THE UNITED STATES, AS WAS MY PRACTICE, I SEARCHED THE MUSTANG. DOWN

-NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 49

---

## Page 50

BETWEEN THE FRONT SEAT & THE GEAR BOX I FOUND A CIGARATIS

CASE WITH A PACK OF CIGARETT'S IN THE CASB. INSIDE BETHBON THE

CASE & THE PACK WAS A BUSINESS CARD. THE NAME AND MOST OF THE

ACCOMPANYING INFOFMATION HAD BEEN INKED OUT. WHAT I COULD SES THAT

WAS STILL PARTLY VISIBLE WAS THE NAME "NEW ORLEANS™ & THE LETTERS "IRAA".

ON THE BACK SIDE OF THE CAFD WAS THE HAND-UR TETEN MALE OF, RANDOLPH

ERWIN ROSEN. RETAINING THE CARD I CROSSED THE BORDER INTO THE UNITED

STATES. ( IN THE" SEPTEMBER 1977 ISSUE OF PLAYBOY MAGAZINE, PLAYBOY

REPORTED THAT IN 1967

HEAA WAS NOT IN EXISTENCE; HOMEVER, UPON ENQUIRY

BY A PARTY REPRESENTINGIE, LEAA, OFFICES IN WASHINGTON D.C. STATED

THAT PRIOR TO 1968 A FORE-RUNNER TO LEA: TITLED, ?, WAS IN EXISTENCE

AND OPTRATED IN, NEW CRUZANS.

UPON REQUEST THE LATE MR. CLYDE

WATTS, AN ATTORNEY WITH OFFICES IN OKLAHOM

CITY, OKLAHOA, INVESTIGATED, ;

IN 1974, AND REPORTED THEREAFTER, THAT RANDOLPH ERWIN ROSEN, WAS IN FACT,

RANDOLPH ERWIN ROSENSON) •

ON NOVEMBER 19, 1967, I ARRIVED IIN LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA, AND RENTED

AN APARTIENT LOCATED AT 1535 NORTH SERIANO AVENUIS• THEN LATER, ON

JANUARI 19, 1967, I MOVED TO 5533 HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD RESIDING THERE

UNTIL ABOUT MARCH 17, 1968. _

DURING MY STAY IN LOS ANGLES, CALIFORNIAN I MADE THE FOLLOWING ATTEMPTS

TO FIND EMPLOYMENT

1) PLACED AN ADD IN THE "HELP WANTED® SECTION OF THE

LOS ANGELES TIMES NEWSPAPER.

2) CONTACTED THE "BIG BRAR" RESORT IN THE INTERIOR OF

CALIFORNIA.

3) TOOK A BAR TENDERING COURSE.

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 ' Page 50

---

## Page 51

4) APPLIED AT TWO HOTEL FOR EMPLOMMENT.

5) FILLED OUT AN APPLICATION FOR EMPLOYVENT HITH THE

INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE.

I MADE THE FOLLO:ING ENQUIRES & ACTS IN AN ATTEMPT TO LEAVE THE

UNITED STATES:

1) AFTER READING IN THE LOCAL NEWSPAPER THAT UNITED STATES

CITIZONS COULD TRAVEL TO COLLARIA, SOUTH MERICA, WITHOUT A PASSPORT,

I СНЕСКВО ДИТО THAT.

2) CONTACTED

EVERAL ORGANIZATIONS ABOUT INFORATION

PERTAINING TO RHODESIAN PIIGRATION.

3) PHONED THE UNITED STATES COAST GUARD SEVERAL TIMES

ENQUIRING ABOUT THE: PROCEDURE TO FOLDON

IN ORDER TO GAIN MERCHANT

SEAMAN'S PAPERS - IN THIS REUPECI, I HAD MINOR PLASTIC SURGERY

ON MY NOSE IN SARCH 1968 PERFORMED BY, DR. RUSSELL HADLEY, IN

ORDER THAT I MIGHT CHANGE MY APPEARANCE ENOUGHT

TO AVOID IDENTIFICATION

IF I ITS DO A PICTURE FOR THE MERCHANT SEAVAN PAPERS. )

IN EARLY DOGSABER 1967 I CHECKED AT THE CANSRAL DIZAVERY SBOTION, MAIN

POST OFFICE, TO SES IF ROUAL HAD POSTED ANY MESSAGES; FINDING THAT HE

HAD NOT SENT A COM-UNICATION-I PHONED NEW ORLEANS UNDER THE NUMBER HE

HAD GIVEN ME

IN MEXICO. THE PERSON THAT

ANSHERED ENQUIRED IF I COULD

TRAVEL TO NEW OLIANS IN LATE DEGABER.

I RIPLIED IN THE POSITIVE AND

THEREAFTER MADE ARRANGYENTS WITH A, CHARLEY STEIN, WHOM I HAD MET IN A

LOCAL BAR, TO HELP WITH THE DRIVING TO NEW ORLEANS. WHEN MR. STEIN-NHO

HAS HABITUALLY SHORT OF MONEY-AND I WERE READY TO LEAVE FOR NEW ORLEANS,

ABOUT DECERBER 15, 1967, HE ASK TO USE MY TELEPHONE IN ORDER TO NOTIFY

p. 18

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 *Page 51

---

## Page 52

HIS FAMILY IN NEW ORLEANS OF HIS PENDING VISIT. DURING THE TRIP I

PHONED BY BROTHER, JERUY WRAY, ONE ITUE. OTHER THAN MR. ST&IN BUSYING

HI'SELE LOCKING FOR FLYING SAUCERS, NOTHING ELSE OF INTEREST TRANSPIRED

ON THE TRIP UNTIL WE REACHED NEN ORLEANS. UPON REACHING THE CITY I

DIALED THE PHONE NUMBER ROUAL HAD PROVIDED ME WITH IN MEXICO; ARRANGED

A MESTING WITH HIS IN THE LE BUNNY LOUNGE QU GANAL STREDT, AND DURING

THE SUBSEQUENT MESSING IN THE LOUNGE ROVAL TOLD ME THAI IN EARLY MAY HE

WANTED TO TRANSPORT SOME RIFLES INTO MEXICO AND FOR ME TO HELP HIM. HE

SAID THERE WOULD BE ABQUT $12.000 IN IT FOR ME IN ADJITION TO THE

USUAL PROMISE OF TRAVEL E

DOCUMENTS. I AGRE- TO HIS PROPOSITION BUT TOLD

HIM I WAS LOW ON FUNDS

SUBSEQUENTIY HE GAVE ME 8500.00 IN TWENTY DOLLAR

NOTES.

RETURNING TO LOS ANGELES I MOVED TO THE AFORGVENTIONED HOLLYWOOD

BOULEVARD ADDRESS, RESIDING THERE WHEN IN FEBRUARY 1968 I RECEIVED A

WRITTEN COUNICATION FRO HOUAL ASKING ME TO MEET HIM IN NEW BRIEANS,

LOUISIANA, ON A CERTAIN DAY IN MARCH, FOR A TRIP-TO ATLANTA, GEORGIA,

AND

TO

ACKNOWLEUGE THE COLLUNICATION. I ACKNOWLDGED BY TELEPHONE THAT

I HOULD BE IN NEW ORLEANS ON THE DATE REQUESTED

OF

OTHER POSSIBLE INTEPEST

•TO THE COMITTEE, DORING MY STAY IN THE LOS

ANGELES

I WAS ROBBED DE A WATCH & THE KEYS TO THE MUSPANG OUTSIDE

OF A BAR ON HOLLIMOOD BOULEVARD, CONSEAUENTLY I HAD TO HIRE A LOCK-

SMITH TO MAKE ME ANOTHER SET OF KEYS. I DID CORDABY SOME ADDRES JES THROUGH

UNDERGROUND PUBLICATIONS ADVERTISING UNATTACHED FEMALES; LATER I DID USE

ONS OF THESES ADDRESSE'S (SBE BELOW). I NEVER ATTEMPTED TO CONTACI ANY

OF THE PERSONS LISTED UNDER THE ADVERTISE INTS EXCEPT ONE, WHO LISTED

HERSLE AS A "NYMPHO SOMETHING"-OF COURSE I HAD BEEN IN JAIL SIX YEARS.

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 52

p. 19

---

## Page 53

ON OR ABOUT MARCH 17, 19ES, I DEPARTED LOS ANGELES FOR NEW ORLEANS,

LOUISIANA. APPARONILY I WAS LATE. IN ARRIVING IN NEH ORLEANS: IN

CALLING THE PARTY UNDER THE APORZZENTIONED NUMBER I WAS TOLD TO

DRIVE ON TO BINHINGHAM, ALABAMA, AND MBET ROJAL IN THE STARLITE

CAFE. ARRIVING IN BIRMINGHAM AND ENTERING THE STARLITE, AGAIN SOME-

WHAT LATE, I MET ROVAL AND WE PROCE-DED ON TO ATLANTA, GEORGIA.

ARRIVING IN ATLANTA VE COMENCED SEARCHING-POR IN PARTIENT FINALLY

LOCATING A ROCH FOR PENT AT 113 14th STROST, NORTHEAST; HOMEVER,

BECAUSE OF THE INTOXIÇATED CONDITION OF THE PROPRIETOR I HAD A

PROBLEM RENTING THE ROCH AND, BECAUSE OF THE DELAY, ROUAL BRIEFLY ENTERED

THE "OFFICE". AFTEH THE RENTAL WE WENT TO A RESTAURANT ON PEACHTREE

• STREET FOR A MEAL, AND WHILE IN THE RE

STAURANT MADE ARRANGUENTS FOR

ROUAL TO MEDT ME AT THE RECENTLY RENTED POOM THE NEXT DAY. THE NEXT '

DAY, ROVAL CAME TO THE HOOM I HAD RITTED (NEXT DOOR TO THE PROPRIETOR'S "

OF:ICE), AND THE CONVERSATION WAS A REFUN OF THE PREVIOUS EVENING'S

CONVERSATION IN THE PEACHTREE STREST RESTAURANT. IN ESSENCE, I WAS

TO PURCHASE PIFLES IN ATLANTA TO BE LATER SHOWN

TO PROSPECTIVE

BUYERS.

BUT BECAUSE OF AN IDANTIFICATION PROBU, ALL OF ME INITICI

TION WAS

LISTED UNDER THE STATE OF ALABAMA; I SUGGESTED WE PURCHASE

THE RIFLES IN ALABAMA, WHICH ROUAL AGREED JO DO. UPON IRAVING RONAL

SUGESTED I STAY CLOSE TO THE ROOS SINCE HE WOULD RETURN IN A COUPLE DAYS

AND THEN WANTED ME TO DRIVE HIM TO MIAMI, FLORIDA-HOWEVER HE NEVER DID

APPEAR FOR THE MIAMI TRIP•

AFTER ABOUT A WEEK ROUAL DID APPEAR AND WE DROVE TO BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA,

TO IMPLEMENT WHAT WE HAD PREVIOUSLY AGREND TO. I CHECKED INTO THE TRAVEL-

LODGE IN BIRMINGHAM; WE THEN CHECKED THROUGH THE YELION PAGES OF THE

NW 55032 PHONE BOKS AND PERHAPS NEWSPAPERS, FOR AN ESTABLISHIENI THAT SOLD RIFLES,

---

## Page 54

DECIDING ON THE APROMARINS SUPPLY COMPANY• SUBSEQUENTLY I DID PURCHASE

A RIFLE WITH MILITARY SPECIFICATIONS AT ABROARINE. AFTER THE

PURCHASE ROVAL GAVE ME THE NAME OF A MOTEL (NEW REBEL), IN

MOPHIS, TENNESSES, TELLING VE TO TRANSPORT THE RIFLE TO THE

MOTEL AND MET HIM THURS AI A GEAPAIMDRIS T APRIL 3, 1968),

AND TIME, SANTI

HE, IN THE INTERVAL, HAD TO MAKE A BUSINESS TRIP

TO NEW ORLEANS,

LOUISIANA.

THEREAFTER, COMLENCING ON MARCH 29, 1968, THE DAY I PICKED UP THE

RIFLE, I TRAVELED IN THE DIRECTION-OF LEMPHIS, TENESSES. SUBSEQUENTLY

I RENTED ROOMS

FLORENCE, ALABAMA;

CORINTH, MISSISSIPPI, DESOTO,

MIS: ISSIPPI, AND OTHER MOTEL ADDRESSES THAT-I CANNOT RECALL ALTHOUGH

• I AS UM THE F.B.I. HAS THE ADDRESSES. I DIDNOT AT ANY TIME DIVIATE

FROM THE AFOREMENTIONED ROUTE AND SPECIFICALL

I DID NOT RETURN TO •

ATLANTA, GEOGIA, AFTER DEPARTING BIKMINGHAM,

ALABAMA, ON MARCH 29,

1968, UNTIL APRIL 5, 1968.

I ARRIVED IN THE SUBURBS OF MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE

ON APRIL 2, 1968,

AND CHECKED INTO THE NEW REBEL MOTEL IN MEPHIS PROPER ON APRIL 3,

1968. I COZENCED RAINING THAI EVENING AND AT APPROXIVATHLY 9:00PM

FOUAL APPENED AT THE ROO I WAS DECUPYRIC.

p. 21

NW 55032

DocId: 32989740

Page 54

---

## Page 55

ROUAL TOLD ME IT WOULD BE NECESSARY TO TAKE A RODY FOR A FEE DAYS IN

• HELPHIS. HE ALSO INFORMED ME HE HAD A PLACE LOCATED NEAR THR HATERFRONT

AND THAT HE OR I, OR BOTH, WOULD RENT A ROCH AT THE LOCATION IN MY NAME.

I TOLD ROVAL THAT I DID NOT CARE TO HAVE MY NAME USED IF THERE WERE GOING

TO BE ANY GUNS IN THE PLACE, OR IF WE WERE INVOLVED IN SOLIETHING WE COULD

POSSIBLY BE ARRESTRA

BORONST THE SUGGESTED A NAME, JOHN WILLARD, THAT I

HAD USED INDIRECTLY GICED BEFORE, THUS A NAME I COULD BASILY REARMBER,

THAT WE COULD USE TO

AST A ROCH UNDER. POUAL AGREED TO USE THE WILLARD

MANS AS THEN CONMENO

THAT IT EVERYTHING PROGRESSED ALRIGHT THEN HE & I

WOULD RETURN TO BIPMINGHAM, ALABAMA, AND

PURCHASE 10 OR MORE OF THE SCOPED:

RIFLES, IN ADDITION TO A LARGE SUPPLY OF THE

BOREIGN BRAND RIFLES THAT I

HAD LOOKED OVER IN THE GUN STORE IN BIRMINGHAM.

IE IMPLIED THAT AFTER WK

HAD PURCHASED THE FIREARMS THEY HOULD BE SHIPPED

HO NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA,

BY BOAT. BEFORE DEPARTING ROUAL TOLD ME TO MBET

MAIN STREET ADDRESS AT 3 Or 4 PM THE NEXT DAY.

I AT THE 4222 SOUTH-

VROTE DOWN THE ADDRESS

ON A SLIP OR PAPER AND I WROTE DOWN FOR HIM THE WILLARD NAME TO USE IF HE

SHOULD BENT A ROCH FOR ME OR HIMSELF. HE MENTIONED THAT IF HS WERE NOT IN

A ROOM

AT THE SOUTH MAIN STREET ADDRESS WHEN I

ARRIVED HE WOULD BE IN A

BAR & GRILL LOCATED ON THE GROUND FLOOR OF THE BUILDING. HE THEN TOOK THE

RIFLE AND DEPÄRTED AND THAT WAS THB LAS

TIME I SAW THE WEAPON. THE NEXT

DAY I DID NOT CHECK OUT OF THE MOTEL UNTIL LATE MORNING. AFTER HAVING

BREAKFAST AT A NEARBY PESTAURANT I DROVE TO THE SOUTH PART OF MEPHIS (I

MAY HAVE BEEN IN MISSISSIPPI) AND WAITED A PERIOD OF TIE IN A BEER HOUSE

AND GENERALLY JUST STALIRD UNTIL TIME FOR THE RENDEZVOUS WITH ROUAL AT 422%

SOUTH MAIN STREET. PINALLY I DROVE TO A COMVERCIAL PARKING IOTE AFTER

CHECKING THE MUSTANG INTO THE LOT, AND RECEIVING DIRBCTIONS FROM THE PARKING

LOT ATTENDANT TO THE LOCATION OF MAIN STREST, I THEN COMMENCED WALKING IN

WW 55032 DocId: 32909740 Page 55

P. 22

---

## Page 56

A CENERAL DIRECTION TOWARD WHAT APPRARED TO BB THE HAT SECTION OF LENCHIS.

FURTHER ON, WITH THE ASSISTANCE OF A POLICEMAN, I LOCATED MATI STRUST AND

TRAVBLING SOUTH ON MAIN I MADE AT LEAST ONE INQUIRY IN BARS CONCERNING THE

422% SOUTH MAIN SIRRET AUDRESS; ONE OF THE PLACES OF INQUIRY MAY HAVE BEEN A

"JIM'S BAR". AFTER I HAD LOCATED THE APPARENT ADDRESS OF THE SOUTH HAT STREET

BUILDING I HAD BEEN SBARCHING FOR, AND KHICH MUT "JIN'S CRILL ON THE CROUND

FLOOR; I ENTERED THE

BAR/CRILI, LOOKING FOR ROUAL, HE WAS NOT IN THE ESTABLISH-

MENT; HONEVER, I DID NOTICE TWO WHITE MALES THAT I HAD PREVIOUSIY SEAN IN

ONE OF THE BARS I HAD JIST RECENTZY BEEN IN MAKING INQUIRES CONCERNING THE

ADDRESS I HAS SEARCHING FOR. ONE OF

THO INDIVIDUALS APPELRED TO BE

NOTICING ME MORE THAN HAS NECESSARY.: (I AM, CERIAIN THAT I DID NOI MEST ROVAL

IN JIM'S GRILL THE FIRST TIME I ENTERED THE

TABLISHHENT BECAUSE OF THE

CROWDED CONDITIONS, UNLIKE THE SECOND, AND THE

TO INDIVIDUALS IN THE BAR

WHO WERE NOT PRESENT WHEN I DID MEET ROVAL) • I ORDERED A BEER AND SHORTLY

THERZAFTER DEPARTED THE TAVERN GOING UPSTAIRS TO

INQUIRE ABOUT RENTING A ROOM

UPON INQUIRY THE PROPRIETRESS INFORMED ME SHE HAD TWO ROOMS TO LET AND SHOWED

ME BOTH OF THEY. SINCE THE SECOND WAS ONLY A STAS:PING ROOM I RENTED IT PAYING

WITH

1$20.00 BILL, ARTER SIGNING THE REGISTRY UNDER THE NAME OF JOHN HILLARDA.

THE ONLY OTHER PERSON I SAW, OR EVER SAW EXCEPT ROULA, IN THE ESTABLISHMENT,

WAS AN ELDERLY WHITE

MALE WHO WAS IN THE PROPRISTRESS "OFRICE* WHEN I FIRST

INQUIRED ABOUT THE ROOM.

INNPDIATELY UPON RETAINING THE ROOM I LEFT THE

BUILDING TO RETURN TO THE PARKING LOT TO PICK UP THE MUSTANG: IT HAS NOW

IPPROXIMATELY 4:00PM BECAUSE OF MY DELAY IN LOCATING THE SOUTH MAIN STREET

ADDRESS.

RETURNING TO THE PARKING LOT, WHICH I ESTIMATE WAS ONE MILE FROM

THE 422€ SOUTH MAIN STREET ADDRESS, I PICKED UP THE MUSTANG AND SUBSEQUENTLY

PARKED THR AUTOMOBILE ALMOST DIRECTLY IN LINE WITH THE FRONT ENTRANCE OF

JIL'S GRILL, AND IMMEDIATELY BHIND ANOTHER AUTOMOBILE. I DID NOT MOVE THE

MUSTANG AGAIN UNTIL APPROXIMATELY 534OPM THE SAME DAY. (I LATER NOTICED UPON

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 56

---

## Page 57

LEAVING THE, POOMING HOUSE ON ONE OF SEVERAL OCASSIONS THAT THIRB HURB

SEVERAL OTHER AUTOXOBILES PARKED NEARBY THE SAME COLOR AS THS MUSTANG, A

WHITISH COLOR).

UPON ENTERING JIM"S GRILL FOR THE SECOND TIMS, I FOUND THAT THE INDIVIDUAE

CALLING HIMSELF ROUAL HAS PRESENT. THIS TIME THE BAR WAS NOT SO CROWDED

AND ROVAL WAS SITTING IN THE LUNCH COUNTER SECTION DRINKING COFFER. AFTER

THE AMENITIES I

AIM T-RAD SOME DIFFICULTY LOCÁTING THE ROOMING HOUSE

UPSTAIRS. WE DEPARTED ALMOST IMEDIATELY WHEN HE SUGGESTED WE CO UPSTAIRS

TO THE ROOM I HAD RENTED. ON THE WAY OUT OF THE GRILL HE ASK ME IF I HAD THE

MUSTANG WITH ME; I FOINTED TO IT SAYING "THERE IT IS"• ONCED UPSTAIRS IN

THE ROOM I HAD RENTED ROUAL BULGESTEDZE BRING WHAT PERSONAL ITEMS I HAD IN

THE MUSTANG UP TO THE ROOM SAYING HE MAY

HAVE TO STAY HERE 3 Or 4 DAYS™.

HE ALSO ASKED ME TO PURCHASE A PAIR OF BINOCULARS WITH INFRA-RED ATFACHAENIS

SAYING THE "PEOPLE" ALSO WANTED TO EXAMINE SOME

GLASSES. ROUAL GAVE ME

DIRECTIONS TO A NBARBY SPORTING GOODS STORE WHEREIN I COULD PURCHASE THE

GLASSES. LEAVING THE ROOMING HOUSE I HAS UNABLE TO, LOCATE THE SPORTING GOODS

STORE THE FIRST TRIP. RETURNING ROVAL AGAIN EXPLAINED TO ME THE LOCATION •

OF THE SPORTING COONS STOAS. (UPON RATURING JOE ROCH WISH ME FIRSE

TELE LOOKING FOR THE SPORTING GOOD STORE, I RELOVED A SMALL TRAVELING CASE

FROM THE MUSTANG, CONTAINING PERSONAL ITEMS

AND DEPOSITED THE CASE IN THE

ROOM ; HOWEVER, BECAUSE I HAS SOMEWHAT CONVERSANT WITH THE TYPE ESTABLISHMENT

I WAS IN, WHAT WITH NO LOCKS ON THE DOORS, OR EVEN DOOR NOBS, JUSI A STRAP IO

PULL, THE DOOR TO, AND THE PLACE AN APPARENT HABITAI FOR WIND'S WHEREIN ANYONE

COULD ENTER ANYONE ELSE'S RENTAL AT WILL, I DID NOT CARRY ANY OTHER PERSONAL

ITEMS TO THE ROO OTHER THAN THE AFOREMENTIONED CASE & IT'S CONTENTS EXCEPT

A COVER WHICH I USED TO COVER THE COLERING ALREADY ON THE BED. I PLACED THE

CASE UNDER THE BED) •

NW 55032 DooId: 32989740 Page 57

p. 24

---

## Page 58

ON THE SECOND TRIP SEEKING THE SPORTINGS COODS STORB I LOCATED IT. UPON

INQUIRY THE SALESHAN INFORVED ME THAT THE STORE DID HOT CARRY INFRA-RED

ATTACHIEATS FOR BINOCULARS AND THAT I WOULD HAVE TO PURCHASE THEM AT AN

ARMY SURPLUS STORE; HOWEVER THE SALESHAN DID SELL ME BINOGULARS. ON THE

WAY BACK TO THE ROCMING HOUSE I STOPPED AT A DRUGSTORE ON THE GROUND FLOOR

OF THE CHISCA HOTEL AND DEERED ICE ERZA HILE-HATTING ON THE ORDER I

SAT, AS CUSTOLARY, DIRECTLY ACROSS PROM THE CASH REGISTER AND DISTINGILY

ERASE ME APPARENT NRAS, NO HAS A NATE IN, INSIZUGTRNG A JOUNS

BLACK WOMAN ON THE INTRIACIDS OF USING A CASH REGISTER, THUS I ASSUM SHE

HAD JUST STARTED: WORKING IN THE STORE THAT DAY. ( THE ATTORNEYS REPRASENT-

ING ME IN THE KING CASE IN 1968-69 WERE

UNABLE TO LOCATE THE DRUGSTORE IN

QUESTION; HOWEVER, IN FEBRUARY 1969 I DESCRIBED TO A POLICEMAN, WHO HAS

GUARDING ME IN THE MPHIS JAIL CELL, THE APPROXMIATE LOCATION OF THE STORE

AND HE INFORMED ME THE NAME OF THE STORE).

AFTER RETURNING TO THE MAIN STREET ROOMING HOUSE

INTOLD ROUAL HE HOULD

HAVE TO PURCHASE THE INFRA-RED ATTACHVENTS AT AN ARMY SURPLUS STORE; I ALSO

INFORMED HIM THAT I HAD NOT EATEN SINCE BREAKFAST.

HE SAID TO GO OUT AND

HAVE A MEAL & MAKE IN A MOVIE SINCE HE WANTED TO SEE SOME PEOPLE IN PRIVATS

THAT EVENING BUT AN

TO LEAVE THE MUSTANG OUT IN FXONT AS HE WOULD HOST LIKELY

NEED IT THAT EVENING OR NIGHT.

I THEN JENT DOWN STAIRS INTO JI'S GRILL

AND ORDERED A BEER ALTHOUCH I DID NOT DRINK IT.. •I SAY THIS BECAUSE I RECALL

SEEING A WHITE WAITRESS ON ONS OCASSION WHILE I WAS IN THE ESTABLISHIIENT,

AND ON THE NEXT OCASSION THERE WAS A BLACK WATTRESS ON DUTY. LEAVING THE

GRILI, I SAT IN THE MUSTANG 10 Or 15 MINUTES BEFORE TRAVELING NORTH ON MAIN

STREBT AND ENTERING A BAR & RESTAURANT LOCATED ON THE LEFT HAND SIDE OF THE

STREBT AND FAIRLY NEAR TO A MOVIE HOUSE ACROSS THE STRRET. I ORDERED A

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 58

p. 25.

---

## Page 59

SANDWICH AND WHILE SITTING THERE RECALLED THAT I HAD CHANCED THE BACK

REAR TIRE ON THE RIGHT SIDE, WHEN FACING THE FRONT OF THE MUSTANG, THE

DAY BEFORE, AFTER THE TIRE HAD DEVELOPED A SION LEAK. THINKING THE DAMAGED

TIRE SHOULD BZ FIXED, BSPECIALLY IF THE MUSTANG SHOULD BE USED THAT NIGHT, I

RETURNED TO THE MUSTANG AND DROVE IT NORTH ON MAIN STRRET FOR MAYBE 3 or 4

BLOCKS BEFORE TURNING RIGHT AND TRAVELIIG 4 OR 5 MORE BLOCKS TO A SERVICE

STATION. THERE WERZ 2 OR 3 SERVICE STATIONS AT THE INTERSECTION; I ENQUIRED

OF ONE IF THEY COULD PIN A SPIRE TIRCO WHILB I WAITED AND WAS INFORMED THAT I

WOULD HAVE TO WAIT AWHILE BECAUSE OF THE BUSINESS VOLUME. MOVING TO THE OTHER

STATION I DO NOT RECALI

ASKING FOR THE TIRE TO BE REPAIRED ALTHOUGH I DID HAVE

THE MUSTANG SERVICED. UPON LEAVING

SERVICE STATION I CIRCLED AROUND IN A

MANNER THAT WOULD RETURN ME TO THE ORIGINAI PARKING SPACE IN FRONT OF JIM'S GRILL;

HOWSVER, WHEN DRIVING ONTO MAIN STREET I SAW A POLICE CAR PARKED BLOCKING OFF

THE STREET THAT I WOULD HAVE TO DRIVE THOUGH IN ORDER TO RETURN TO MY ORIGINAL

PARKING SPACE. IN ADDITION I SAW WHAT APPEARED IO BE 2 OR 3 PROPLE RUNNING"

OR WALKING RATHER FAST OPPOSITE THE POLICE CAR. I THEM VESAND OFF TO THE LEFT

TOWARD SOUTH MEMPHIS TRAVELING THROUGH WHAT APPEARED

TO BE A PREDOMINANTLY

BLACK COMMUNITY. I EVENTUALLY ENDED UP IN MISSISSIPPI

TRAVELING TOHARD NEW

DELIANS, LOUIGIANÁ. II WAS NE INERATION TO PHONE A DISH ORLEARS NUMBER IN MI

POSSESSION AND HAVE THE PARTY ON THE OTHER END ATTRIPT TO FIND OUT WHAT IF

ANYTHING HAD HAPPENED IN THE AREA OF THE

AFORELENTIONED SOUTH MAIN STREET

ROOMING HOUSE; HOWEVER, SHORTLY AFTER ENTERING THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI I

HEARD OVER THE CAR RADIO THAT DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING,JR. HAD BEEN SHOT IN

MEMPHIS. A SHORT WHILE LATER ( APPROXIMATELY 15 MINUTES ), ANOTHER NEWS BULLETIN

ON THE RADIO STATED POLICE AUTHORITIRS WERE LOOKING FOR A WHITE MUSTANG & A

WHITE MALE SUBJECT AS A SUSPECT IN THE SHOOTING OF DR. KING CONSEQUENTLY THE

FIPSI INTERSECTION I CAME TO I TURNED EAST TRAVELING TOWARD ATLANTA, GBORGIA,

p. 26

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 59

---

## Page 60

V.½ WAY OF BIRMINGHAI, ALABAMA. SHORTLY AFTER TURNING REST I STOPPED

THE MUSTANG AND THREW VARIOUS ITES OF OF THE TRUNK INCLUDING ALL OF

THE CAMERA EQUIPMENT THAT ROJAL HAD HAD HE TO PURCHASE FOR HIM THE

EQUIPMENT WAS STILL IN THE ORIGINAL WRAPPING CASES WHEN I DISCARDED IT.

IT HAS RAINING SLIGHTLY AT THE TIME AND I TOOK A CLOTH AND ATTEMPTED TO

WIPE OFF ANY PINGEPPRINTS I MAY HAVE LEFT ON THE OUTSIDE OF THE MUSTANG.

( SEVERAL YEARS LATER MY BROTHER, JERRY H. RAY, IOLD ME THAT IMEDIATELY

APER TAS GUITY PUN ME NAHIS ATONE CRISPAL ONS HIM IS DANCED

TIRE & THE FLOOR MATS

FROM THE MUSTANG) •

THOREAFTER I DROVE THOUGH BIRUTIGHAM, ALABAMA, AND LATER INTO THE STATE

OF GEORGIA. APPROXIMATELY THIRTY (30) MI

IS FROM ATLANTA, GEORGIA, I RAN

LOW ON FUEL AND STOPPED AT A SERVICE STATION FOR GASOLINE. I ARRIVED IN

ATLANTA AT APPROXIMATELY 7:30AM• I ABANDONED THE MUSTANG IN A PRIVATE

PARKING LOT NEAR CAPITOL HOMES• I THEN RETURNED TO THE ROOM I HAD PREVIQUSLY

RENTED LOCATED AT 113 14th STREST, NORTHEAST. I PLACED EVERYTHING IN A CASE.

THAT IT WOULD HOLD AND DISCARED THE REMAINING ITEMS LEFT

IN THE ROOM. I

THEN WALKED IO THE PIEDONT LAUNDRY WHEREIN I HAD LEFT SEVERAL ITES OF

CLOTHING TO BE CLEANED IN LATE MARCH OF 1968. I THEN PHONIO A BUS STATION FOR

RESERVATIONS

TO DETROIT, MICHIGAN. BEING INFORMED THAT A BUS WAS LEAVING

ATLANTA FOR DETROIT, MICHIGAN, THAT AFTERISON

I STURNED TO THE ROOMING

HOUSE FOR THE CASE. I THEN DEPARTED THE BUILDING AND CAUGHT A TAXI CAB

TO THE BUS STATION WHEREIN I PURCHASED A TICKET TO DETROIT, MICHIGAN. THE

BUS WAS NOT DUE TO LEAVE ATLANTA FOR SEVERAL HOURS SO I CHECKED-IN THE CASE

AND TRAVELED SEVERAL BLOCKS FROM THE BUS STATION AND WAITED IN A BAR UNTIL

UNTIL DIP ARTURE TIR FOR THE BUS; HOWEVER, UPON RETURNING TO THE BUS STATION

I LEARNED THE BUS HOULD BE LATE IN IT'S DEPARTURE SCHEDULE. AFTER THE BUS

p. 21

NW 55032 DocId:32989740 Page 60

---

## Page 61

DID DEPART FROM ATLANTA IT PROCEEDED ON TO CINCINATI, CHIO, WITH A

LAYOVER IN THAT CITY FOR AYPROXIMATELY TWO HOURS. DURING THE LAYOVER

I WAITED IN A NEARBY BAR UNTIL IT CLOSED AT 2:3044, THE I WAITED IN

TH& BUS TERMINAL ANOTHER 20 OR 30 MINUTES BEFORE THE BUS DEPARTED FOR

D-THOIT, MICHIGAN. ARRIVING IN DETROIT AT APPROXTYATELY 7:30AM. I

THEN MADE REGERVATIONS FOR A TRAIN BOUND FOR TORONTO, CANADA. BEFORE

LEAVING FOR THE CANADIAN SIDE OF THE BORDER I TOOK A TAXI CAB TO A

TRAIN STATION APPROXIMELY THE NILSS PRON DOWNTOiN DETROIT. ADJACENT

TO THIS TRAIN STATION WAS

AN OPEN SQUARE BLOCK (PARK) • DIRECTLY

ACROSS, DIAGONALLY, FROM THE TRAIN STATION, AND AGROSS THE OPEN LOT,

WAS

A BARBER SHOP WHERMIN I HAD A SHAVE

& HAIRCUT •

p. 28

NW 55032

DocId: 32989740

Page 61

---

## Page 62

I ARRIVED IN TORONTON, CANADA, AI APPROXIMATELY 6:30 FM APRIL 6,

1968. AFTER CHECKING MY CASE INTO THE LUGGAGE DEPARTIENT I MADE

MY WAY WEST ON FOOT. AFTER WALYDIG APPROXIMATELY THO MILES, AND

MAKING ENQUIRES ALONG THE WAY FOR RENTAL QUARTERS, I EVENTUALLY

FOUND A ROOM FOR RENT AT 102 OSSINGION AVENUE. THE PROPRIETRESS'S

NAMI WAS, IES- ADAN SZPAKOHSKEEPATSONS. SZPAKOSKI $20.00 FOR ONE

WEEK'S RENT. MRS.

S'ZP,

KOWSKI, WHO SPOKE WITH A HEAVY ACCENT, DID NOT

ASK ME MY NAME NOR DID & VOLUNTEER THE INFORMATION. THEREAPTER ON THE

FOLLONING MONDAY APRIL

1968, I MADE MY WAY TO THE OF: ICES OF THE

TORONTR EVENING TELEGRAM

AND ASK TO SES BACK IS UES OF THE PAPER FOR THE

YEAR 1932. THE LIBRARI

GAVE ME THE REQ

STED ISSUES ON MICROFILM AND

• ASSISTED ME WITH THE PROJECTOR. AFTER A TIME

*CHOOSED SEVERAE NAMES

FRON THE FILMS; THO OF THE NAMES WERE, RAMON GEORNE

SNEYD & PAUL E.

BRIDGMAN. MY PURPOSE IN OBTAINING THESE NAMES WAS

APPLY FOR A PASSPORT

UNDER ONE OF THE NAMES IF CONDITIONS WERE FAVORABLE.

EAVING THE NEWSPAPER, :

OF: ICS I MADE ISY WAY BACK TO THE ROOM ON OSSINGTON AVENUE; HOWSVER, BEFORE

I GOT TO OSSINGTON I WAS STOPPED AND TICKETED BY A PLOICEMAN FOR JAY-

WALKING. I HAD REMEMBEHED A HOMAN'S ADDRESS IN TORONTO, 6 CONDOR STREST,

FROM SOME ADDRESSES I HAD, GOTTEN OUT OF AN UNDERGROUND PUBLICATION APPARENTLY

SPECIALIZING IN

BRINGING PEOPLE TOGETHER"; I GAVE THE POLICEMAN THE CONDOR

STREST ADDRESS AS MY DINOSI AM FAIRLY CERTAIN I ALSO GAVE MY NAME AS, ERIC

GALT, TO THE POLICIMAN. THE NEXT DAY I PHONED THE LOCAL POLICE STATION

INQUIRING ABOUT THE TICKET, HOWEVER, THE STATION DID NOT HAVE THE TICKET

ON FILE. AFTER I ARRIVED BACK AT THE OSSINGTON AVENUE ADDRESS I WROTE THE

NAME OF PAUL BRIDGIAN ON A SLIP OF PAPER AND GAVE IT TO MRS. SZP AKOWSKI

INFORMING HER "THIS IS MY NAME*. THE NEXT DAY I PROCEDDED TO CONTACT BY

TELEPHONE SEVERAL OF THE NAMES I HAD GOTTEN FROM THE TORONTO EVENING TELEGRAM.

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 62

p. 29

---

## Page 63

TELLING THE I WAS WITH THE REGISTRA GENERAL'S OFFICE INVESTIGATING

. A PASSPORT MATTER; ENQUIRING OF THEM IF THEY HAD EVER BEEN ISSUED A

CANADIAN PASSPORT• EVENTUALLI I CONTACTED, MR. RAMON GEORGS SNEYD, A

TORONTO POLICEMAN, AND UPON ENQUIRY MR. SNEYD INFORVED ME THAT HE HAD

NEVER APPLIED FOR A CANADIAN PASSPORT. THEREFORE SHORTLY THEREAFTER

I MADE NX WAY TO THE ARCADE PHOTO STUDTO AND HAD SEVERAL PASSPORT PHOTOS

TAKEN; I USED THE PAUL BRADCHAN NAME IN APPLYING FOR THE PASSPORT PHOTOS.

DURING THIS PERIOD I HAD

PENTED ANOTHER ROOS LOCATED AT 962 DUNDAS SIRBAT

WEST FROM A, ARS. SUN IO0

I REGISTERED UNDER THE NAME OF, RAMON GEORGE

SNEYD, AND TOLD MRS. I00

WORKED NIGHT THUS WOULD BE IN DAYS--I SPENT

THE NIGHTS AT THE OSSINGTON AVENUE ADDRESS.

I THEN VISITED THE KENNEDY TRAVEL AGENCY IN TORONTO ENQUIRING ABOUT THE

PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING A CANADIAN PASSPORT. I TOLD

ATHE OFFICE MANAGER,.

MRS • LILLIAN SPENCER, THAT I DID NOT HAVE A GUARANTOR HAVING JUST RETURNED

TO TORONTO. MRS. SPENCER INFORMED MS THAT IT WAS NOT RECESSARY TO HAVE A

GUARANTOR, RATHER I COULD MAKE A SWORN STATEMENT THAT

WAS A CITIZEN OF

CANADA; HAVE THE STATEMENT NOTORIZED; THEN HER OFFICE WOULD APPLY FOR THE

PASSPORT. I DID APPLY FOR A PASSPORT THROUGH MRS, SPENCER'S OFFICE UNDER

THE NAME OF, RAMON GORGE SNEYD, AND USING THE DUNDAS STREET WEST ADDRESS.

(I I HAD BEN THROUCH ENOUGH TO GAINS ATORZENTIONEA INFORMATION

DURING MY FIRST TRIP TO CANADA IN JULY 1967 I AM SURE I WOULD NOT BE

TESTIFYING BEFOR& THIS COMMITTEE TODAY).

DURING THIS PERIOD I ALSO MADE A BRIEF TRIP TO MONTREAL, CANADA, TO

ENQUIRE ABOUT SHIP RESERVATIONS TO EJROPE.

pa 30

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 63

---

## Page 64

IN EARLY MAY, 1968, HY PASSPORT IN THE NAME OF, RAMON GEORGE SNEYD,

WAS PROSINTED TO ME BY THE KENNEDY TRAVEL AGENCY. ON MAY 6, 1968,

I DEPARTED CANADA BOUND FOR LONDON, ENGLAND, AND ARRIVED IN LONDON

ON MAY Y, 1968. IMEDIATELY THEREAFTER I BOARDED A PLANE FOR LISBON,

PORTUGAL. WHILE IN LISBON, AND BECAUSE MY FINANCES WURZ SUCH THAT I

COULD NOT APPORA PARS IO A MORE RUSTAV COUNTRY, SAI AUSTRALIA, I

PADE SEVERAL EFFORTS TO GIN TRANSPORTATION TO AFRICA. DURING ONE

PERIOD IN A MESTING WITH ABLACK & WHITE MALE I ATTEMPTED TO JOIN A

MILITARY UNIT IN BIAFRA BUD

WAS UNSUCCESSFUL, " FINALLY I DID FIND A SHIP

WITH AN AVAILABLE BERTH

BOND POM ANGOLA; HOMEYER, A VISA VAS REQUIRED

TO ENTER ANGOLA AND SINCE

HE SHIP WAS LEAVING FOR

ANGOLA IN THREE DAYS,

AND IT REQUIRED SEVEN DAYS FOR A VISA TO BE PHOCESSE

I MISSED THE

OPPORTUNITY•

RETURNING TO LONDON, ENGLAND, AFTER APPROXIMATELY TEN DATS

IN PORTUGAL,

I ATTRIPTED ON JUNE 8, 1968, TO LEAVE ENGLAND VIA AIRPLANE

DESTINED FOR

BRUSSELS, BELGIUM; HONEVER, I WAS DETAINED AT LONDON'S HEATHROW AIRPORT

BY THE POLICE AND SUBSEQUENTLY ARRESTED BY ENGLISH AUTHORÄTIES AND HELD

FOR EXTRADITION TO THE UNITED STATES.

THEREAFTER I WROTE NESSRS, F. LEE BAILEY & ARTHUR J.

HANES SR., OF THE

MASSACHUTTES & ALABAMA, BAR RESPECTFULLY ABOUT REPRESENTATION IN THE

MATTER I WAS BEING DET'AINED UNDER NAMEE

Y THE DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR.

HOMICIDE. MR. BAILEY INFORMED ME INDIRECTLY THAT THERE WOULD BE A

CONFLICT-OF-INTEREST INVOLVED IF HE SHOULD TAKE THE CASE, THUS DECLINED;

MR. HANES ACCEPTED THE CASE, APPARENTLY AFTER CONTACTING THE ALABAMA

NOVELIST, WILLIAM BRATFORD HUIE AND, PRESENTING ME WITH A LITERARY CONTRACT

In SIGN. THEREAFTER I WAS SUBSEQUENTLY ORDERED BY AN ENGLISH COURT TO BE

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 64

p. 31.

---

## Page 65

NW 55032

EXTRADITED TO THE UNITED STATES AND IN PACT WAS EXTRADITED AND

LODGED IN THE MEMPHIS, TENNESSES, JAIL ON JULY 19, 196S•

AFTER I WAS LODGED IN THE MEPHIS JAIL THE AFOR VENTIONED ATTORNEY,

FiR. ARTHUR J• HANES, SIO, HAD LIL ENTER INTO A SEPIAS OF LITERARY

CONTRACTS WITH HIS AND, WILLIAM BRATFORD HUIS, THE ALABAMA NOVELIST,

IIN ORDER, MR. HANES SAID, TO FINANCENA TURT TRIAL IN THE KING CASE.

SUBSEQUENTLY, IN NOVABER, 1968, MY BHOTHER, JERY W. RAY, VISITED

ME IN SAID JAIL AND S ID THAT HE HAD RECENTLY VISITED, WILLIAM BRATFORD

HUIE, AND THAT MP. HULLE HAD OFFERED NE, INDIRECTLY, THROUGH JERRY,

$12.000, IF I HOULD NOT TAKE THE WITNESS STAND IN THE KING CASE SAYING

" MY TESTIMONY FROM

ITNESS STAND HOULD DESTROY THS LITERARY VALUS

OF THE BOOK HE (HUIE), WAS WRITING ABOUT

THE CA

*"'• CONSEQUENTLY WHEN

PENCY FOREIAN, A BEZBER OF THE TEXAS BAR, APPEARED

WUNSOLICITED AT THE

MEPHIS JAIL A FEW DAYS LATER AND VISITED ME, I AGRESO WITH MP. FOREMAN'S.

SUGGZSTION THAT I FIRE HR. HANDS AND HIRE, FOREMAN. PARCY FORDIAN HAD

THE ABOVE MENCIONSD CONTRACTS IN HUND AND SAID THE ONE THING ARTHUR

HANES WAS INTERESTED IN WAS THE MONDY BEING PROVIDED HIM BY BRATFORD

HUIE, AND THEN PHONISED ME, AND LATER THE THIAL JUDGE,

THAT IF I

RETAINED HIM IN THE CASE HE WOULD NOT BECOME INVOLVED WITH WILLIAM

BRATFORD HUIK

IN COMIERCIAL PUBLISHING VENTUROSE

THEREAFTER THIS

"PROMISE" OF PERCY, FOREIAN'S WAS OF

RT DURATION IN THAT WITHIN

A FEN DAYS OF BECOMING COUNSEL-OF-RECORD IN THE CASE HE MADE ARPANGENTS

WITH BRATFORD HUIE TO HAVE, ARTHUR HANES SI., INTEHEST IN SAID CONTRACTS

TRANSFERED TO HI'SELF. THEN LATER, IN JANUARY 1969, MR. FOREMAN

PRESETED ME WITH A CHECK FHOM, WILLIAM BRATFORD HUIB, FOR $5.000

FOR MY ENDORSEMENT SAYING HE "NEDED THE FIVE THOUSAND TO RETAIN

CO/COUNSEL", HOWEVER, IN DECEMBER 1968 ATTORNEY FORDIAN HAD PERSUADED

DocId: 32989740 Page 65

Do 32

---

## Page 66

THE TRIAL JUDES, W. PRESTON BATILE, THAT NO FUNDS WIRE PORTH-

CONUNG FROS, BRATFORD HUIE, OR ELSE WHERE, AND THUS HAD THE JUDGE

APPOINT THE PUBLIC DEFENDER, HUGH STANTON SIO, AS CO/COUNSEL-MR.

STANTON HAD FRUVIOUSLY ROPRESENTED THE STATE'S CHIEF WITNESS, CHARLEY

STEPHANS, IN THE CASE. THE SAME CHARLEY STEPHENS WHO, FOR A PROMISE

OF $100.000 FROM THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, HAD COMMITTED PERJURY

THOUGH A SWORN AFFIDAVIT BY PALSELY aNTI/ING ME THOUGH A PICTURE

IN ORDER FOR THE GOVARNIENT TO HAVE ME EXTRADITED FROM LONDON, ENGLAND.

THEN IN FEBRUARY, 1969, PERCY FOREMAN RECEIVED ANOTHER $5.000 CHECK

FRO: WILLIA BRATFORD HUIE THIS TIME HE DID NOT BOTHER TO HAVE ME

ENDORSE IT, KATHER HE JUST FORGED MY NAME TO.

• IT AND CASHED IT IN

COSPLICITY WITH, PLANTERS BANK OF MEPHIS.

AFTER COLLECTING ALL THE MONEY THAT WAS AVAILABLE

FROM, WILLIAM BRATFORD

HUIE, ATTORNSY FORSYAN THEN COMMENCED, ON FEBRUARY

I3, 1969, MANBUVERIRG

ME INTO A GUILTY PLEA. FORMAN'S ARGUMENTS FOR THE

PLEA HERZ IN

ESSENCE:

1) THAT THE PRESS HAD ALREADY CONVICTED

BE BY INFLAMING

THE MINDS OF POTENTIAL JUORS.

2)

THAT THE GOVEFINVENT HAD BRIBED

AN ALLEGED WITNESS,

CHARLEY STEPHENS, INTO PERJURING HIMSELF AGAINST ME

BY OFFRIME STEPHENS®

À $100.000 REWARD TO SAY HE

SAN SOMEONE FAVORING ME LEAVING THE ROOMING HOUSE,

WHERE DR. KING WAS ALLEGEDLY SHOT FROL, IMMEDIATELY

AFTER THE SHOT WAS FIRED. (WIFE COMMITTED-EXH--C).

3) THAT IT WOULD IN SOVE MANNER BE IN MY FINANCIAL

INTEREST TO PLEAD GUILTY AS CHARGED.

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 66

p. 33

---

## Page 67

4) THAT THE TRIAL JUDGE WANTED A GUILTY PLEA BECAUSE

HS WAS CONCERNED THE BLACKS MIGHT BURN THE TOWN DOMI-

IN RESPECT'S TO PERCY FORFSIAN & THE JUDGE'S EX-PARTE

ME TING ARFANGING THE PLEA, APPARENTLY THE TWO HAD

EIGHT NEUTING.

THEN LATER, IN MARCH 12691, BOREMAN SAID THAT IP THE CASE WAS NOT

SETTLED THROUGH A GUILTY PERA THS COVERIMSNT WOUID PROBABLY ARFESY

MY BROTHER, JERRY W. RAY, ONDER SCME TYPE, CONSPIRACY CHARGE IN THE

DR. KARTIN LUTHER KIMG JI, HOMICIES

HE ALSO SAID THAI THE PoD. I.

WOULD MOST LIKELY ARREST

TATHER, GEORGE RAX A

KHO HAS THEN NEAR

SEVENTY YEARS OF AGE, AND HAVE HIM RETURNED TO THE IOWA STATE PRISON

WHEREIN HE HAD ESCAPED IN THE 1920'S.

IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE AFORAENTIONED THREATS & FROMISES, PERCY

FOREMAN CONVINCED ME HE WOULD "THRO'" THE CASE IF I MAÑAGED TO FORCE

HIM TO TRIAL ( IN FACT IN AN ARTICLE PUBLISHED IN LOCK MAGAZINE IN MAY

1969, S0LD TO THE PUBLICATION BY PERCY FORMAN FOR

$1,

2000, HE IN EFFECT

ADMITTED HE MOULD HAVE "THROWEN"THE CASE IF I WOULD HAVE FORCED HIM TO

TRIAL. CONSEQUENTLY, THROUGH WRIT'EN CONTRACTS, ' ACRESD ON MARCH 9, 1969,

TO ENTER THE GUILTY PLEA. MY CONTRACTUAL ACHE MENTS WITH PERCY FOREMAN

IN RESPECT'S TO THE TERLS"OR PHE-GUILTY PLEA ARE AS FOLLONS:

1st. CONTRACT,

* IF THE PLEA IS ENTERED AND THE SENTENCE ACCEPTED AND NO

EMBARRASSING CIRCUMSTANCES TAKE PLACE IN THE COURTROOS,

I AlS HILLING TO ASSIGN TO ANY BANK...ALL OF MY RECEIPTS

UNDER THE ABOVE ASSIGNMENT IN EXCESS OF $165.000".

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 67

p. 34

---

## Page 68

2nd. CONTRACI,

M...I AM WILLING TO ADVANCE JERRY (PAY) $500 AND ADD

IT TO TH& $165.000 MENTIONED IN MY OTHER LETTER TO YOU

TODAY. IN OTHER WORDS, I HOULD ROCEIVE THE FIRST $165.000.

BUT I WOULD NOT MAKE ANY OTHER ADVANCES- JUST THIS $500.

AND THIS ADVANCE ALSO IS CONTINGETIT UPON THE PLEA OF GUILTY

AND SENTENCE GOING THROUGH ON MARCH 10, 1969, WITHOUT ANY

UNSERILY CONDUCT ON YOUR PART IN COURT". ( EXE--D)'o

DURING THE PERIOD OF MY CONFINEHCNT IN THE MRIPHIS JAIL, WHICH TOTALED

APPROXIMATELY EIGHT (8) MONTHS, THE CONDITIONS WERE AS FOLLOWS:

THE STATE OF TENESSER RETAIVED, DR WAS ORDERED NO RESTAINA

TWO FEDERAL PRISON OFFICIALSINHO IN A FIRST ORDER OF BUSINESS ORDERED

SHEETS OF MEDAL BE PLACED

OVER ALL OF THE WINDONS THUS SHUTTING OUT

FRESH AIR AND LICHT. THE PROSTALS THEN HAD XELONER INSTALLED FOR

OXYGEN, WHICH RESULTED IN HY HAVING FREQUERT NOSE BLEEDS. THE BLOWER

COULD ONLY B5 OPERATED OUTSIDE THE CELL-BLOCK. BECAUSS OF':

THE LACK OF'

NATURAL LIGHT THE FEDERALS HAD LIGHTS RIGGRD IN THE CELL-BLOCK, IN-

CLUDING THE CHLL I WAS CONFINED IN, WHICH HEPE KEPT ON

WENTY-POUR (24)

HOURS A DAY. CONPLAINING TO THE TRIAL COURT ABOUT BEING UNABLE TO SIRAP

UNDER THESES CONDITIONS THE COURT SAID * SISP IN A MA

DURING THIS CONFINEMINT PERIOD I BUOKE OUT IN A RASHE

THINKING MAYBE

I HAD BEIN POISONED ISASKED THE DOCTOR, WHO WAS HEATED TO THE PROSECUTOR,

FOR A BLOOD TEST. IT REQUIRED 2 OH*3 DAYS TO HAVE THE TEST. AFTER THE

BLOOD SAMPLE FINALLY WAS TAKEN I WAS NEVER TOLD THE TEST FINDINGS; HOWEVER,

IN A 1974 HABEAS CORPUS HEARING THE DOCTOR TESTIFIED THE MEMPHIS. SHERIFF,

WILLIAM MORIS, HAD ORDERED HIS TO DESTROY ALL OF MY MEDICAL RECORDS.

OF OTHER POSSIBLE INTEREST TO THIS COMMITTRE WHILE PERCY FOREMAN

REPRESENTED ME: I ONCED PROVIDED ATTORNEY FORSIAN WITH A PHONE NUMBER,

POSSIBLY CONNECTED TO THE KING HOMICIDE, TO INVESTIGATE, HOWEVER, FOREMAN

NW 55032 DooId: 32989740 Page 68

35

---

## Page 69

COMMENTED LATER THAT IF THERE WERE TO BE ANY PHONE NUBURS

INTROLUCED LITO THE CASE "HE" WOULD PROJUCE THE THROUGH HIS INTERSTATE

GAMBLING CONECTIONS VIA A, MEYER LANSKY.

THE DAY AFTER THE GUILTY PLEA I WAS TRANSFERED TO THE STATE PRISON

IN NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE. UPON APRIVAL ALI OF MY PERSONAL PROPERTY,

INCLUDING THE AFOREHENTIONED PHONE NUMSMR I HAD WRITTEN DOWN BACKWARDS

ON A SHEST OF PAPER AS CONFISCATRO BY THE CORRECTIONS CORMISSIONER,

MR. HARRY AVERY. THOROR THREE DAYS LATER SAID PROPERTY WAS RETURNED

TO BE EXCEPTING VARIOUS ITSUS OF PERSONAL & LEGAL MAIL THAT HAD BEON

POSTED TO ME IN C/O THE, NASHVILLE PRISON. ( PHONE NO. -EXH--C).

THE FIST DAY LI THE

PRISON I HAS COMPTIED FORTHWITH IN SOLITARY

CONFINSHENT AND WAS ON, THAT SALE DAY, INFORMED BY CORPECTIONS

COMMNISÜIONET., HARKY AVERY, THAT I NCULD NEVER BE RELEASED FROM

SOLITARY CONF INDENT UNLESS I CEASED EF. ORTS TO GA

A PUBLIC TRIAL

IN THE KING CASE: HE SAID HE WAS SPEAKING FOR THE "HIGHEST AUTHORITY"

I HAD FILED A MOTION FOR ANE: TRIAL THE DAY AFTER

TENTERED THE PRISON,

AND SO INFORMED MR. AVERY OF MY INTENT IN THIS MATTER.

THEREAFTER

I WAS CONFINED FOR THIRTEN ( 13) MONTHS IN SOLITARY

CONFIST AND DUHING THE INITIAL PERIOD ON THIS CONTINENT HAD TO

BE TREATED BY A

DOCTOR SEVERAL TIMES FOR NASAL NCABRANE HEMORRAHAGING.

THIS AILMENT ( DAMAGED MELBRANE) HAS DUE TO CONFINEMENT CONDITION IN

THE MEMPHIS JAIL, 1.E., LACK OF VENTILATION. IN ADDITION, DURING THIS

PEPIOD I WAS ALSO TREATED FOR ESOPHAGUS SPASMS, ALSO RELATED TO THE

MEPHIS JAIL CONFINEENT CONDITIONS.

AFTER THIRTE IN (13 ) MONTHS OF THIS TYPE CONFINEMENT I UNDERSTAND THE

p. 36

NN 55032 DooId: 32989740 Page 69

---

## Page 70

LATE WILLIAN E. MILLER, RECENTLY A JUDGE ON THE UNITED STATES

SIXTH CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS, INTAHCADZD WITH PRISON AUTHORITIES

AND HAD THEM TRANSPOR ME TO THE STATE PRISON AT PETROS, TENNESSRE i

IF I HAD NOT BEEN TRANSFERED I DOUBT IF I HOULD HAVE BEEN HERE TODAY.

IN LATE JULY OF 1972 THE PETROS PRISON WAS CLOSED AND I WAS TRANSFERRD

BACK TO THE NASHVILLE PRISON. AFTER BEING IN THE GENERAL PRISON POP-

ULATION FOR FOUR (4) DAYS I WAS UNIONED TO THE MAIN PRISON OFFICE

AND INFORKED I WOULD BE RETURNED TO SOLITARY CONFINEMENT. REQUESTING

TO SEE THE WARDEN, JAMES KOS3, I WAS INFORMED BY MR. ROSE THAI PROPLE

CUT IN TOWN" WANTED ME PL CED IN SOLITARY BUT THAT IF I QUITE LITIGATING

THE CASE HE WAS SURE I WOULD BE RULEASED FROM SOLITARY CONFINGENT.

THERFAFTER I STAYED IN SONTARY CONFINEMENTT FOR THREE (3) YEARS, THE

FIRST EIGHTE IN MONTHS I WAS PERMITTED CUT OF TH

G. CELL, WHICH WAS

APPROXIMATELY 6 X 12 FELT, FOR ONLY FOUR MINUTES PEN DAY-THAT WAS TO.

TAKE A SHOWER. THE COLL BLOCK WAS INFESTED WITH INSECTS & RODENTS.

DURING THE THRES (3) YEARS I WAS IN THE BUILDING FOUR PRISONERS ( EXH*F)

COMMITTED SUICIDE, TWO BY HANGING & TWO BY SETTING THE

SELVES ON FIRE...

NATURALLY THE DOMINANT PROSS IN THE UNITED STATES SAID NOTHING ABOUT

THESE SUICIDES,

ALTHOUGH IF THEY HAD HAPPENED

IN

FOREIGN COUNTRY THE

SAME PRESS HOULD"

•HAVE BEIN IS A SELF-FIGHTDOUS RAGE, OR PRETENED RAGE.

DUHING THIS PERIOD, SPECIMCALY

DECEMBER, 1973, TENNESSEE CORKECTIONS

OF. ICIALS ACTING IN COLLUSION WITH THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

JUSTICE, ATTEMPTED TO ILLEGALLY REANSFER NE TO THE FEDERAL MENTAL

INSTITUTION IN SPRINGFIELD, MISJOURI.. THIS ATTEMPTED TRANSFER WAS

AFTER THE AFOREMENTIONED OFFICIALS LEARNED OF A SUIT THAT WAS TO BE

FILED IN MY BEHALF IN FEDERAL COURT REFERING TO THOES WHO MAY HAVE BEEN

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 70

- 38

---

## Page 71

RESPONSIBIE FOR THE SHOOTING OF, DE. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JI.

OF OTHER POS-IBLE INTEREST TO THIS COMMITTES DURING THIS PERIOD:

JUST KOCENILY THE AFORCLENTIONED CORRECIIONS CONISSIONER, HARRY AVERY,

HAS STATED HE GAVE ALL OF THE PAPERS, ECT., HE RETAINED OF MINE & THOES

CONNECTED WITH THE KING CASE TO ATTORNEY, THOMAS WARDLOW STEELE, OF THE

TENNESSEE (NASHVILLE ) BAR, AND THAT THE PAPIPS SUNSEQIENTLY RISAPPEARED

FROM MR. STE IE'S OFFICE.

IN ADDITION, ATTORNEY PERCY PORSHAN HAS TESTIFIRO THAT HE TOO GAVE HIS

COMPLETE FILE IN THS KING CASE INCLUDING ALL INFORMATION I HAD GIVEN

MRO FORSMAN, TO ANOTHER NASHVILE ATTORNEX, THE LATER JOHN 3. HOOKER, ST•,

AND THAT MR. HOOKER "LOST" THE

Respectfully: James

Ray

NW 55032

DocId: 32989740

Page 71

pa 38

---

## Page 72

PREER ORS

1. Percy Foreman testified he net with trial Judge, i. Preston

Eattle 6 or 8 tires arranging the guilty plea. see forensn

deposition, Rey v. Foresen, et al, Civil Ho. 60199, HiD. Tenn.

2. See, CIE-TV t-pe I supalled this committee therein Charley

stephens, shortly after the shooting of II. H:rtin Luther "Ing Jr.,

and after vieiing by picture, told CeS that was not the person

he sen leaving the yeahouth frin street eduress.

3. prison records, jashville.

4. I have a copy of the

mericarry ivery made said ststarents.

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 72

---

## Page 73

i bristo

J-1 TON DONHE BAITER.

Soles80) 09. 40020309 160.1975

spalanossion

ExAmpie

SOLITARY CONEiN

Atti!

•S/28/8v

NW 55032 Dord: 32989740 Page 73

6-26-75.

Ray Geis More

Prison Freedom

Dy disertatro D'sess

Coare thist 18.89's

James Parl 18:9.

1188086187-

8:880169388 14s6s eolleglis

Metri r.

#7479947979

a18:8: 88000619828

tin Janther Ko! or..

i: 100:y

Hy's

B9s. 8890ir63me1

sill lue a stale pricen luilt in

150011455 31 1116

1147.5 118

HOUse 18444) 8858038-

Modo Penitentinos allos

01S.

OVEr-

yar in maximu setur

soling, Warden Hobert

j8e2foilisticen 0d 1088 2.800 iis.

1001005

Mortose sand line

Cisf

SMASHINUI

Serarily

intervals ba the pron's

Monte 18801108

that

tengal prison papula-

"I approved il

1608)

Morford said I'ridis.

al isolation evri sinos

ariosi in

London

lor

Aprils, son, slaying of King

il Memphis.

Returned lo the 1'5

sperial plane and lege in

tolesisiammamile8od coll i

perireriss

stale.

misan scurily prison.

Mount sin

workor sor a siuse lime in.

thee Diss:1s6l55.

Since pieading luills 1o

ІНСТИЕ 1e

ciririns

Mister, Big Dia: less ling

eloun that be san coerera

Us defense lassgers, includ-

ing Percy Forman. Hous"

Ion. Tex., was rejerred late

dist year adder a U.S. 5i-

presne.Courl.ordered

evi

dlentiary hearing.

Abanatar

piradei muilty in Marce

1960, lo surdering King ind

vas sellenced lo aa yours.

Morford said there

Prisone

8-11I8N

Found lung

With Cord

The body d9 i Tennesses

Stale Prison immale sins

11116 1:011.19.

in lisist

coral friday night lis a pores-

on guard. polico

silidl

lorlas.

D0dee.111

frontalitis

Jere identified Alse inessiste:

as Mirs Bister Ar.

+H6-108161188 989016d 8858s

+0158580lle80 tle: 10x0e%-

le: detective said

Esister's lasly B5aas 16211110}

"Dy prison sard l'erry

Cintary is he 1a5 1904.1114

his

black, austurities sarisl.

Prison

ufficials

said

•;

Bander, winds libet hone al

TuCOro sas dastaville.

14'835

---

## Page 74

u nay rayou

normanu Told FBI In 1973

ty. we was a completely: differi

an afterchat:" In fact when Kaur.

preivogel an

was arnested in: Isa? for selling

rylocky man.

amphetaming pills to a federa

Basked his attoray it fie could

nnoceat by reason'ot insanity,the:

i thien contimes with

said. That.Idea was.abandoned,

I in parentheses:

er, and Kaufmann as convicted.

individual,

Beyors

regard to the latter

lann, a stackbrakenand business.

ommenter

man was actuaily

that this

the indlvidual who

died in 18732.1

Wife Reulah'OKautimann testi

•made the payoff of James Earl Ray after

ned for

the 'killing.

about thres hours last week. be

ture the House select commitoe,

have: Told the Post.

The c

Beyers (the name is consistently

Sautfmann was. short,

committee da not ok her auste

echin the memg) talked, freely

ompweight and walked with a carked, who walkod with a limpshad phidat

limp atter being injurediln an automobile.

mselt and his businars, and they livents described by Byers,

Ray, the Post-Dispatch Brat told. Dyi

ent to (short deleton by FBI One source said that accident aler

NW 55032

DocId: 32989

wet been

---

## Page 75

8A

Thurs., Augast 3, 1978 -

ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

Byers

• A FROM PAGE ONE

P matter, hanging up on

taking Byers' story

One committee

0 funesday night

source. told the Post

Dispatch that. the

theft of statues from the St. Lould

Irt

"The memorandum largely libes with

Museum earlier this year.

panel is undecided, i

Man account Byers gave about the same

"'Ve're just working on it," the source

Byers is described in the memoran

re Lime to a reputable St.. Louisan.

¡"said. "We haven't come to any conclu.

dum as a "very treacherous guy." Th

bing la "about 1976, the St. Loulsan. told the

,sions' as to how seriously to take it:"

"description apparently.came from.

•La' Post-Dispatch, Byers told him that a

-associate of the FBI informant, 'whi

_The source nofed, however, that the

stockbroker who had lost his license was

intensity of thi committee's efforts

"cautioned the informant "to stay from

Sdinvolved, In offering.Byers, $50,000 for.:

shows that the pinel considers the story

¿him il he wanted to stay out of trouble.

• One of the investigators on the stalt of

well worth investigation.

fliently syas Kaufmann.

"Certain things appear to corroborate

the House committee was the ledera

" the fource sald, without : ?

drug agent who ll years ago led

elaborating. "Butigt this point, we're:

nvestigation into Kauttmann's, Illege

*memo. Byers gaid he never intended to

just following up all aggles……. Basically,

."sale of amphetamines: Kauftmann

convicied in 1062.

gigo through with the plot, tut follwed.

we take anything like

nis seriously until

along for awhile out of curiosity.

The Investigator Harold D. Lesp, has

ERNE otherist at

been un the committee stall since last

„Byers' allegations have focused aller-

Byers-allegations.have. led Investiga, il ition on Kauftmann and Sutherland,

year. That indicates that he was mot just

Lors to speculate that his brother-in-LaW, a.

¿ John Paul Spica, might have convoyed

whose names had not been.montioned'

hired to tollow up on the Kaallman,

vangle, which was disclosed ta the com:

word orche bounty to Ray at ihe.

publicly in connoction with the King case

Missouri. Pealtentiary, where both weg?

until last week

malte In March 2P

tr.

Iserving sentences al the time of the.

The FBI memorandum want unnoticed

alleged offer in late 1958 or early 1907.

id walle trea ding. the sucessul effart to

-prosecute Kauffmern and sevon .co

• Spica, who now runs a trult stand in 5l."

•"by investigators. looking Into. King's.f.defendants, Leap. was wounded ins

assassination for tour years bcoause it

was tlled under Byors' name and not

Louis, bas denled having any dealiss ia cross-referenced. It was uncovored in

shooting on a country road in St. Zonis

with Ray.

"County,

-Membei of the House caramites hei

*'Karch when investigators were review-

ithe

ioa.to.say.now surlously.thoy.&

ăng dyèrs

le: In connection with the

shogtng.

3.ö2, ra:

& well-placed source sald drug agents

• alspectod one of Kaufmann's codeten.

'idents, butino.evidence was developed

Unking ay po-detendung o the shooting.

'in addon to"st. Youts County

"'policemen salio investigated sald they

mand federal drug agents had guestioned

'Loap told county notice that dichr

blocked' his path' on Sulphiw

Springs

"Road on bis'way back home antr.a.lalo

nigar meeting Sept: 122;

1967, WIth tho

informant, 'who had helped mito the

¿case against Kaulman! The informant,

Dallas Baro, had faken active part-in

Kauffraann's lesel amphétamine opera

Mon Lais

Teap, sald he strigsled ouside his car

"Weith tio feen from the other çar botore

bẻng shot in the head by his own pistoli

•The round. was 'superficlal and he soon

regaindd cunsciousness;

"Lesp' refused to d

with the nisshssinat

shooting.:

NW 55032

DocId: 32989740 Page 75

ALL, INFORIGION CONTATNED

triant

cremer

---

## Page 76

King Assassination Witness

Grace Walden

Freed:

NAACP'S $100,000 reward if| would say

in the world watching and listening,

it was Ray, but I couidn't accept their

Lane reports that he "visited the Soviet

by Greg Roberts

money because I didn't see Ray," Ms.

Embassy there, and requested that

Walden has said many times.

Russian psychiatrists be assigned to

According to Lane, what then trans-

examine Grace Walden in Tennessee.

Grace Walden Stephens, a witness

pired was the FBl's convincing of Char-

•Since DE Cohen had refused 10

who saw the slayer of civil rights leader

lie Stephens, a reputed Memphis "at

mermit any psychiatrists, including Dr

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. flee from iho

coholic with a long police record, to state

Benjamin Bursten, the vice-chaisman of

Memphis rooming house from where he

thaktie fied also seen the man and that

the Psychiatry Depariment al she Uni-

fired al King, has been freed from the

the kiler was Ray.

versity of Tennessee, to examine Ms.

various Memphis and Tennessee Stale

Subsequently, Mr. Stephens applied

Walden, I also called upon psychiatrists

menial wards where she has been con

from various other nations to form an

fined without due process for nearly 10

for the NAACP reward.

However, as for Ms. Walden, on July

international brigade to come to Bolivar

years.

31, 19,18, two Memphis oerectives from

and examine her," Lane says.

Shark Lane, the veleran JFK and King

Meanwhile,

the haricide squad carne oui so ine

in Washinion D.C., is-

assassinalion truth digger and current

sociale FBI Director James Adams sub

boradigg house. apd picked her up.

lawyer for James Earl-Ray and Grace

Froin themiphis police:tieadquarters.

sequently acknowleuged to newly-ap

Walden, freed Ms. Walden at her urging

where ms. Walden once agairelysed

poinied FBI Disector William Webster.

from a Memphis "boarding house'

Allorney General Griffen Bell and ClA

Thursday, May 4, and subsequently

to sayal was Ray, she was handculled Director Stansfield Turner Shai Ms.

and laken to the mental ward of the John

New Ms. Walden to Los Angeles, where

Gastin City Hospital,

where she was

Walden was really nol insane, and Dier

she is presently staying

swiftly declared "insane."

rector Webster, through Adams, told the

Previously, Ms. Walden, a diabetic,

had been kept at the State Hospital for

After spending the night al the hospi-

Memphis

FBI office to pull strings

10

tal, Ms. Walden was then chained with

have Ms- Walden released.

- so-called psychiatric patren!s in Bolivar,

the other psychiatric patients and carted

Consequently, Tennessee authorities

Tenn., for the balance of the past 10

off to the State Hospital in Bolivar.

agreed to have Ms. Walden transferred

years.

In recent years, as Mark Lane began

10 a boarding pouse in Memphis, where

Dr. King was assassinated as he

concentrating on the King murder

it was then only, s matter of time before

slood on the balcony of the Lorraine

• co-authoring a book on the subject with

Lane was able

Dicontact her.

Motel in Memphis on April 4, 1968.

naclivist-comedian Dick. Gregory, Code

Once contactewas made and ms

Ms. Valden, then married lu Charles

Name Zorro - he and Meniphis privale

Walden explaineu to mark Lane that she

Stephens, had been living al she nearby

detective Reniro Hayes traced Ms.

would like lo take litrip 1o Los Angeles,

boarding house from where the shot Walden to the Bolivar snakepit.

they caught the näxt flight to L.A. Irom

• was fired and observed a man feeing

Needless to say, Lane subsequently

Memphis

without further interference

the bathroom, which had been locked

launched an international campaign to

from the Memphis police or the FBI.

for hours, immediately after she heard a

free Grace Walden, where a great deal

Subsequently, pertain authorities in

silie shor.

Tennessee are

today heckling Mark

of pressure was broughi to bear on the

After the assassination, Is. Walden

providod Memphis pouce and FBI ag-

Tennéssee

establishment and on

Lane and threatening him with con-

tempt, largely as,' ploy for them to cover

Bolivar chiel Dr. Morris Cohen, who re-

onts with tho dolails öl a sketch of the

their lacks if and when the Justice De-

portedly lad Ms. Valden frequent doses

man, which the FBI subsequenlly so-

of poient drugs such as the dreaded

partment getfaround lo prosecuting

leased and identified as Eric Starvo

Gatt, who did not look anyining like ac-

prolixim, a severe tranquilizer.

thom.

Recently,

uselestingly, the man whom face

Lane's

"Irao

Grace

Mark Lago, incidentally, replied to the

Walden"

campaign came lo a climax

Tennessos authorities that he will gladly

Interestingly,

the man whom

when, on April 2C, he and researcher

meal them in cour or anyplace else

• Walden

saw fleeing the locked bal--pApril Ferguson dropped by the Russian.

whenever they call.

hroom does resemble one of the male

Embassy in Paris, France.

• And we all moved a day closer to a

"'ramps" whom Dallas poirce had ar-

With evary major idatinenco agency

time when James Earl Ray receives a

rested in Dealey Plaza shortly alier the

fair trial.

• JFK assassination there on Novembei

22, 1953, and whom neither the Dalias

polcie nor the FBi have ever identified.

As for Grace Walden, she began to

run into problems with the

Memphis

police and tha FBI belween May and

July, 1968, when she relused to identity

James Earl Ray as the man whom sho

saw lleeing the rooming house

bat-

hroom.

Attor the Robert Kennedy assassina-

tion in Los Angales on

June 5, 1968,

public opinion forced U.S. intelligenco lo

come up with Dr. King's killers, so lho

FBl and

CIA reluciantly produced

James EariRay.fre Kingdeathpaisy.in

London on June 8, 1968.

HOLLYWOOD PRESS • Page 2 • MẠY 19, 1878

However, when Brilish authoritios

demanded evidence Irom the FBI thal

Ray had really murcared King, the FBI

office in Memphis lired 10

con Ms.

Walden and her hussand lo assert ihalil.

was Ray whom she had seen.

"Thoy tolo ma shal l would gos sho

Nw 550032 bocid: 32989740 Page

5128/84

-9911

Spifflumke

wait my on

trix: +9-2356-975

---

## Page 77

Dear James Parl:

You have herclofore assigned to me all of your royalties, from

magazine articles; Dook, motion picture, of diser reventairs

derived from be writings of Willian Bradford Fus Then 3Ig

my own property uncoaditionally.

However, you have barstoloro authorised nud maurind mo tr

negotiate a plea of guilty if the State of Tennesses through its

District Attorncy General and with the approval of the trial judgo

would waive the death penalty. You agreod to accept a sentençe

of 99 years.

It is contemplated that your case will bo disposed of lomorson,

March 10, by the above plea and sentence. This will aborten too

trial considerably. In consideration of the time it will zave ma,

I am willing to make the following adjustment of my fee arranga

ment with you:

If the plea is entered and the sentence accepted and no embar-

rassing circumstances take place in the courtroom, I am willing

to assign to any bank, trust company or individual selocted by you

all my roceipts under the above assignment in excers at $165,000.

These funds over and above the first $165,000 will be held by

such bank, trust company or individual subject to your order.

I bave either spent or obligated myself to spend in excers of

$14,000, and I think these expenses should be paid in addition 1o

198

HE SLEW THE DREAMER

a $150,000 fadeath sure the expenses will exceed the $15,000,

but team willing to rest of that figure.

Yours truly,

PERCY FOREMAN

Dear James Ear:

You have asked that I advance to Jerry Ray $500 of ibe

$5,000", referting to the first $5,000 paid by William Bradford

Huie. At that time I hadepent fir exeess of $9,500 on your case.

Since then I haye apent in excess of $4,000 additional.

But I ara willing to advance Jerry

$500

and add it to the

$165,000 mentioned in my other letter to you today. In otbel

words, I would receive the first $165,500. But I world not make

any otber advances-just this one $500. And this advance also is

contingent upon the plea of guilty and sentence going through on

March 10, 1969, without any unseemly conduct on your part in

court.

P. S. The rifle and the white Mustang are tied up in the suit

filed by Renfro Hayes the private detective who worked for Mr.

Hanes). Court fosts ánd attorneys fees will be necessary, perhaps,

in get them released. I will credit the $165,500 with whatever th

i've in the cost of obtaining them, if any.

1969, or giberwise, said assignment and transier herein lo the

said Pepsy Foreman being absolute and irrevocable, and I here

now authorize and direct any person, firm or corporation having

funds due and swing me by virtue of said Basic Agreement, or

otherwise owing to me because of the writings of said Author, to

pay the same to the said Percy Foreman, at his offce in Houston,

Harris County, Texas, in his own name and as his own property.

I read that agreement with dismay because with it went my last

hope of ever being able to exert financial leverage on Ray. It's hard

77.

Page

DọcId:32989740

55032

NW

Hanes to ras under the Amendatory Agreement of January 29,

In December Mr. Foreman had pneumonia and lost a month's

work. But on Friday, January 24, 1969, he flew into Huntsville

airport, where I met him and we talked for another four hours bes

tween planes. The result was that on January 29, 1969, we signed

a four-way amendatory agreement under which Mr. Hanes "got

out" bystransferring all his rights to Ray, and Ray reaffirmed all

his grants to me, with all actions being approved by Mr. Foreman

Then on Fobruary 3, 1969, Mr. Foreman plucked Ray clean by

having him sign a notarized two-way agreement which roads in

part:

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: That I, James?

Earl Ray, presendly in Mempbis, Shelby County, Tennessee, for

and in consideration of his agroement to represent me at the

trial or trialsiof any cases presently pending against mo in

Shelby County Tennessee, have signed over, gives, convoyed and

transferred, and do by this instrument here now give, assign,

set over and transfer to Percy Forman, of Houston, Harris

County, Texas, all of my aforesaid rigbt, title and interest in and

to the proceeds that would otherwise have accrued to me pursuant

to said Basic Agreement and to said Amendatory Agrcemcat, and

to all of my rights thereunder as well as to any other right or

rights that might be or have been mine because of the writing and

subsequent publication of such writing by said Author William

Bradford Huis, whether included in said assignment by the said

§ріваті

5\38/80

archinew leaked."

HE SLEW THE DREAMER

193

---

## Page 78

Tinalenitr

Roccivor of Sheriff William N. Morris. Jr: tho

sun of 5/0°

Said monigs being sent

by mail to James Earl Ray, with aliases, from CAll feezi

Who residos at 10S5 BELLEVUE, ARACLENGES.

63143.

O1 STE N. 7513748341629

The above sum was-recolved in tho form of

cash,

check)

monct

order.

(circle appropriate)

VERA C. STAPLES

DES!- W.W, FIVER DR,

58.F20.

BY:

•Per

rames Earl Ray, County Jail

RRY RAY-710

LOUIS.

MISSOUT

1h5 hN.1214 1887

al'i

6.31.04.

з.

Page, 78,4..

11988

---

## Page 79

2A Spor Time

3, January 25, 197

James Earl Ray.

FBI agents found Ray to be a lonely guy who

answered the ads in girle magazines;

WASHINGTON (UPI) - James;

„Starvo Gualt on Feb" 12, 1968 - lest

Earl Ray, the convicted assassin of

" than two months afore the King as

Mies she is potato santa do we answered a

FBI files as a painfully shy man who

sought women's company. through

am answering your listing.

ballroom dance classes, phone calls

he Local Swinger sind, " thinky

and sex oriented classified ads in the

back pages of magazines.

graphasis of rene interest, with

Ray was described throughout the.

Fol prove as the classic example of a

sexy haye

_ t00 shy to look &

after fiye years and the rew-amilies

woman

the eye.

yet able to

-I 'have' met

don't go for

the swing

proclaim a preference for oral sex in

parties and it fakes two to swing. The

a letter lo a women he had never

same routine gets boring, don't yau

met.

think."

'Bl files also suggest that Ra

ink another occasion"' he edered

ometimes soughi out prostitutes.

several books from an'ad, ineluding

yuman he dated in Puerto Vallara,

•lexico, said Ray advised ber of his

one entitled "Unusual Fenile Sex

Practices.

sisict daily budget

and s8 for drinks.

471310r

Women

The FBI files.contain

reports thes

Post Oifice Depurtment-recelved

. 14.

¿Prison Inmales who served:time

obscene letters from GAt, along with

with Ray in the eary 1960s reported

he::

constantly

read

pictures of Buy: Alast.two

wonger

complaised that he pegued them

magazines.

and the FBI flles in.

with late wiphktelephone.call

dicale he oiter replled to the clas.

sifed ads.

Ray himself placed adassuer id

lance classes. "He took classet in

New Orleans; Birmingham, Ala; and

In the Los Angeles Free Press say.

Los Angeles, and once paid $188 for-:

ng: "Wanted: discreet meeling witl

passionate married female:

He lef

& box number and nired a maù for

But when he met women taco fo

warding service when he felt thef

face in these classes, he froze: One?

Frisia:

wring under his alas sees

instructor recalled he"stayed

2 N0 1304

NWEX-A-1

55032

Docid: 32989740. Page 79u-

---

## Page 80

I Startion PastOne

we know of hie-living hubles bbin bors

and alter the murder would indica

i ride wed on sery limitedoun

-We do not know

malle ramoundor

Managipassesi

ed by Rasp but since

We know hims

haye robbed iri ban

Ingland after

fleeing ra that, cor

¿ reasona

ble presumptior.

Raji: Comraltted.

robberies in the: Unitad Starca

durin;

said...

.ingo one prisonor

testimony. Groin inachs

arid by hil

ystal

2d. " He

ту.

trom

adapubility:

nopsness and

porteicarried.ouh

Tuy first pleaded

the court wher. it

case came: 10

Ray obtained moncy,

white

"Narch

104-1960, by?. changing

Musiang r0

phis; $131.25 for the

piCa

so su he wào sentenced:

punip rifle and 574:60 for Rodflald.scopp

He since has made numerous ensl

telescopic sight ha. used to kil

King:

jia leand bafor

cossful appeals,

and the funds to reach

Canada,

and ta

and"last malllescaped

from Brushy: Mountain State grisón I

¡ pay for his round tlp: plane rickei

cime'of.his.ars

London.

London from

Tannessde :,He was! appre

gendea

store tire tater."

THERE WERE indications. Ray was

ках, пожі tayel.

reupon his gully plea,

martinvalued. in, drug wailic in

aling, y vas

The reports madeiavallibto under

"presian Baule be could "not"a

the Fregiom of normation Acron also

cept! the statemenis of léprosécuror

showed astrongestrenk.of racisin, sinds:

prisen or four years prior to the slate which he hact checke

African

fallsbur,

and; his' artorney that he had acid

pro-Nail; feelings, may, hate led. Ray to

allies. wichour. aid fro

• In: Momphis told police harroomen hadr

assassinate the man who most.symbol.

• adaspirator:

i. ¿The documents alsa showedia..

da: silly smile! maremariashict prou

well black. refusali lo.accept. apything

: but equal statur in Minerica:;.

EVER • SINCE, herd

beeh.

"o The Filsumied for two months,. ducedi several sips fromincople jung

Just a few wacks beforo King s mur

explored the rbeory Ray. might have?

knew men write silly stiles.

* der, Ray, and i companion; Charles!

most his: life

in fail,

beeri killed

alter: the assassination"" di Ray lay, shy' atourid

Stein, drove from Los Angeles: lä New

orces eager

to relience

Agents hud lad tests conductod whenev^

answered/advertistments

Orleans and back in the courge of that

trip: Ridesara

his stacial

recently as June, 29;

197, роц.

er unidentified bodies were found any

One

1971,

of girlie magazines.

iplace in the country.

said his shyness

went lo

Ma danies dark, Ras

verd the FBl Mles showed, the bureau

• So desperate was the FBl'for leads: could not look her. i

conciuded it could find, "nothing to indi-

• Ichas it instructed.agents' ro

"discreetly

"IF NEGROES wantio be freet they

An uncle told agents Ray may hav

cate that Ray ever received any large

spokey:.:

remind their news contacis" about the

a Walter Rila,

should yo.nam or west, stein auntec

Ray: "If, they stay. in che Souths shey, Jewa by upro Nazs

mans oncy and hunt do money from anyone, and what

tens of thousands of dollars avallable in

said! Ray

would: pu

reward money..

would also roll 'drunks lo

should ba.siling.c. badlaves?

workadi da a youth

Tahit all a er of paired lee,

and would optian money sisy

thlet

could

obtain'

shorts near the boarding house

man

 the buller was fired put

suchoritios

on.

charäoteried him ma a rame

loner.

Ray's trail almost instantly; The pliary

wore: indentifled

two days. aller;

: Chai

reau..

"has norvous

shooting as having.boon sold. by: tho

of his carlobes

Raripaga Hardwaro Co. on Hollywood'®

have a crooked smile.

Boulevard, Los Angeles.

wear.

was

traced to

Thọ.

undor.

cigarets, beer. vodka

"Eric

Galt"

ques, reserved. evasiva

through laundry tugs from a dry, cleant.

0:1..10rm01

ing establishment three blocks frons they

Ray

hardware store,

•The landlady in the rooming house was fo

NW

55032 • DocId: 32989740

Page 80

ALL INRORMARION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS

DAIE S/28184

і -А

---

## Page 81

MORAL GOVERNMENT

The Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Ir. Robert Reuch

Director, FBI

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

1 - Mr. Long - Enc.

1 - Mr. Foster - Enc.

1 - Mr. Mintz - Enc.

August 24, 1978

2 - Mr. Coulson - Enc.

1 - Mr. Heller - Enc.

In accordance with Attorney General Order

116-56, this menorandum advises that Special Agent

Richard S. Clark, Legal. Attache, London, England,

was interviewed on August 11, 1978. A merorandum

setting forth Iir. Clarl:'s account of this intervict

is enclosed for your information.

Enclosure

1:

APPROVED:

Director

Dep. AD Inv.

Adm. Serv.

Crim. Inv.

Ident.

Intell.

Laboratory

1 - Personnel file - Richard s. Clark - Enclosure

Legal Coun

Plan, & Insp.

Rec Mant.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off.

ATT, TIMES

Sprinke

APPrOVED:

1

am. ser

rim. Inv

Ident,

Antell.

Laboratory

Dep. AD Inv.

REG-70 1=- 11?

sAloila

Legal Coun

Plan. & Insp.

Rec Mght,

Tech. Serve -

rening.

Public Affs. Off.

1163

Assoc, Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.-

Crim. Inv. -

Ident. _

Intell..

Laboratory -

Lon CouRH: RH:2070/

Plan. & Insp. _

Rec. Mgnt. _

(10)

Tech. Servs. _

Training

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephone Rm..

Director's Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM I

2040

Page 81

1119

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 82

4

4..

(

INDORAI GOVERNMENT

Assistant Attorney General

Grininal Division

Aticntion 77. Robert I. Keuch

Director,

FBI

0

August 24, 1978

HOUSE SPLECT COLITICE ON ASSASSINASIONS

U. a. FOULE 07 REFTESENTATIVES (HECA)

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Heller

1 - Mr. W. I.

Bailey

1 - Mr.

Ryan

1 - Mr. Foster

Roference is made to the letter to the Attorney

Genoral Irom G. Robert Blalicy, Chief Counsel and Director, ESCA,

catca sugust 11, 1974, Thich requested, In connection with the

ISCA's investiration into the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther

King. Jr., that dellvery be made of chicago field office file

seria] 44-114-772.

Enclosed are an oricinal and one copy of a memorandum

in rosponse to the abovc-refcrenced letter. It is requested

that a copy of the nemorandum be furnished to the ISCA.

Inclosures (2)

62-117290

ALT TATTOM CONTATI

15f8186

-ENCLOSURE

Ex 131

REC-66

62-111-290-1164

5 AUG 20 1378

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv..

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serrs..

Crim. Inv. -

Ident. -

Intell. -

Laboratory.

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephone Rm. -

dE.0:8004

, 1.

MR.

1c: -11

3457

FBI/DOJ

Flage 82

---

## Page 83

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn :

Mr. Heller

I - Mr. W. L. Bailey

1

- Mr. Ryan

- Mr. Foster

August 24, 1978 .

HOUSE SILECT COLITIRE OT ASSASSINATIONS

J. E. HOUSE OF REPRESEUTATIVES (ISCA)

Feference is made to the letter to the Attorney

General from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director,

IscA, dated August It, 1970, Inich requested, in connection

with the ISCA's investigation into the assassination of

Dr. Hartin Luther Ming, Jr., that delivery be made of Chicago

Field Office file serial 44-114-772.

This is to confirm that delivery of abovo-mentioned

Chicago serial was made to lICA Stoff Hember Phoebe Orr,

on August 11. 1978.

TWB :pfm

134 (7)

62-117290

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH.

NOTE: See Director

August 24, 1978, captioned as above.

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

Crim. Inv..

Ident. -

Intell. -

Laboratory

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt. _

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off. -

Telephone Rm.

Director's Sec'y

listened

MAIL ROOM

NW 55032

DocId: 32989740

see a cel

5128|54

Прусирке

HENC

yies1i..coon

62-117290-1

ENCLOSURE

FBI/DOJ

Page

183

---

## Page 84

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL

MINE, OHIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART

GKINNEY, CONN.

VONNE BRATHWRITE, BURKE, CALIF

CHARLES THENE, NEBR.

HRISTO HER J-BOSE, CONN

HAROLD S, SAHIYER, MICH.

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN::

FLOYD J. FITICAN, IND..

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA. Y

Ree c10

9-1578.

(202) 225-4624

EDERAL ROVERTAENE

(Select Committee on Assassinations

150s0799

H.S. House of Representatines

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

September 12, 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the

United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this

Committee into the circumstances surrounding the

death of DI. Martin Luther King, JI., the assistance

of the Federal Bureau of Investigation is requested in

regard to the following matters for the years 1967-1968:

1) Prepare for access

on a priority basis all

BUFILE material as well as material from the

Field Offices of Birmingham, Jackson, Atlanta,

New Orleans and Los Angeles

on the Citizen's

Council of America.

2)

Prepare for delivery

137 US a entication 1167

Division Records on the following individuals:

a. Michael Thomas Jenkins - dob 7/13/50

22 SEP 20 1978

3)

b. Arman Kaliyan, Jr. - dob 9/24/43

Provide the names of all FBI personnel, who

may have been present (that is, all persons

not assigned to the Memphis Field Office) in

Shelby County during the period covering March

18, 1968 through April 4, 1968.

b. Prepare for delivery any and all materials

or communication generated by any such persons

as discussed above.

62-117990

+ ESEP-28 1978

Dollar 32989r140 Badé at

---

## Page 85

* "The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Page Two

Prepare for access any and all BUFILE and

subfile material:

George Brusca, JI. - dob 12/28/28

As always your prompt attention is greatly appreciated.

Very truly yours,

1. Not Blolay

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB : ghh

XC :

Mr.

Ron Heller

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page

: 85

---

## Page 86

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

LOYD S- FITHIAN, INI

OBERT W, EDGAR, P

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

SAMUEL

VINE, OHIO

STEWAR

IC KINNEY, CONN.

CHARLES MINE, NEBR.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

(202) 225-4524

Hernse

(Select Committee on Assassinations

-. ouse of Representatines*

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

September 13, 1978

9-15-75

FEDERAL GOVDRIMENG

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Comnittee

into the death of DI. Martin Luther King, JI., it is

requested that access be provided for Metropolitan Police

Department officers Norman Smith, Darrell Linville and

Ray Holbrook to all original fingerprint cards possessed

by the FBI on the following subjects:

1)

James Earl Ray, FBI #405942G

2)

Jerry William Ray, FBI #862651A

3)

John Larry Ray, FBI #368-725A

4)

Randolph Rosenson, FBI #34-711E

5)

Gus Prosch, dob 11/17/30

Jesse B. Stoner, dob 4/18/24/

who it a urther requested rite noveline leers, ol

Select Committee for the examination of latent prints

resulting from the MURKIN investigation, be afforded access

to these original lingerprint cards during evening and

weekend hours where possible.

122 SET 80 1978

Your cooperation in this matter will be greatly..

appreciated.

Sincerely,

2. Rober Blobey

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

62-1194240

GRB: meh

62 SEP 279978Pon Heller

No 5so3el Daid: 32989740 "Page las

---

## Page 87

113

sant in

1-13-78

ESPARTMENT OF 195T.08

TICAL CURELU CHINEST SAT EN

UNCLAS EFTO

ROUTINE

EM DIRECTOR_ FBI 662-1172903

TO LEGAL ATTACHE MEXICO CITY ROUTINE /

BT

UNCLAS EFTO

LHOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS ESCAL

RE: BUTEL TO MEXICO CITY, SEPTEMBER LA 1978; MEXICO CITY

TELEPHONE CALL TO BUREAU, SEPTEMBER 7. 1978.

ON SEPTEMBER 12, 1978, GERALD HAMILTON, HSCA, ADVISED THAT

COMMITTEE WAS AGREEABLE TO CHANGE IN PROPOSED DATE OF INTERVIEW

_OF SPECIAL AGENT JOHN J. FOARDE, JR. HAMILTON STATED THAT

COMMITTEE NOW DESIRES STAFF INTERVIEW TO BE CONDUCTED AT

C;

_10:00 A.M., SEPTEMBER 28, 19781 AT HSCA OFFICE, 3331 HOUSE

OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2, WASHINGTON, D. C- THIS IS THE OLD

_IDENTIFICATION BUILDING, LOCATED AT 3RD AND D STREETS, S.W.,

WASHINGTON, D.C.

SPECIAL AGENT RONALD HELLER, LEGAL LIAISON AND

CONGRESSIONAL AFFAIRS UNITI LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISIONS ADVISED THAT

HB/DR/1D

1 - LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION

ATTN: MR. HELLER

I - INTELLIGENCE DIVISION

ATTN:

LIAISON DESK

J. - MR. RYAN

1 - MR. FOSTER

S

66 SEP 281978 C

NW 55032

DocId: 32989740 Page 87

-X+14-7i3-28

1 8988/4

3683

REC-89

TE2

62 5102 SAGESHRETS

COMMUNGRNORS SEGTION

SEP 14 1978

SEP 13 1978

ALI INFOTEATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNULASSIFIED

DATE 5)2S 184 BDDyflupire

---

## Page 88

77795

CEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDALDUPRAU OF INVESTIGATIO::

COMMUN CATION M38506380291

PAGE TWO DE HQ 0II3 UNCLAS EE TO

LEGAL BRIEFING WILL BE TELEPHONICALLY PROVIDED SPECIAL AGENT

FOARDE PRIOR TO DATE OF INTERVIEW•

1111:09

.. :. 1.

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 88

---

## Page 89

=.4.0

Teletype

10:

Fm:

bare tor, she dex-127290%

September 28, 1978, would be agreeable with his commitments.

- 3-

NW 55032

DocId: 32989740

Page 89

---

## Page 90

105

ESPARTMENT CE JUSTI33

FEDECAI DUNBAU OF I ESTIGATI2*

MAUNCH 400596627060

2

1-14-78

¡ UNCLASEFT O

#FLOSORR ATIDE HQ NOL05 257÷N0YETR 142049Z SEP 78

ROUTINE

"LEM DIRECTOR_FBI {62-117270}

TO FBI ATLANTA ROUTINE

BT

UNCLAS EFTO

PHOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS EHSCAL

BUREAU DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 21, 1978.

THE HSCA, WHICH IS INVESTIGATING THE ASSASSINATIONS OF

PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY AND MARTIN LUTHER KING. JR., BY LETTER

DATED SEPTEMBER &, 1978, REQUESTED DELIVERY SON A LOAN BASIST

OF THE ORIGINAL PIEDMONT LAUNDRY SLIP WHICH IS BELIEVED TO BE IN

THE POSSESSION OF THE ATLANTA FIELD OFFICE.

BUREAU INDICES SEARCH REVEALS THAT REQUESTED LAUNDRY

SLIPS ARE LOCATED IN ATLANTA MURKIN SERIAL 44-2386-1A28•

IN RESPONSE TO THE ABOVE REQUEST, ATLANTA SHOULD MARK

_AFORESAID SERIAL AS EVIDENCE AND SUBMIT BY REGISTERED MAIL TO

FBI HEADQUARTERS WITH THE NOTATION "HAND CARRY TO SPECIAL AGENT

RICHARD -6. BUSCHING ROOM 87881 CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT?.

1 - MR. MINTZ

ATTN: MR. HELLER

I - MR. BASSETT

MR. FOSTER

• - MR. BUSCHING

1-14-78

EX-137

REC-8Q

•EDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

0988/4

3683

62-117290

SEP 1 4 1978

1

TELEPYPE

1154

SEP 18 1978

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

C28EP b81972989740 Page 90

---

## Page 91

P-15=73

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

IRESPALDERZAU CERNVESTSATIDN

PAGE TWO DE HQ 0105 UNCLAS E FIO _

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION".

.BT

11:11 101:03

+- --==----1------

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 91

---

## Page 92

FEDERAL GOVEINKENE

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention:

fir. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

September 14, 1978

1 - Legal Counsel Div.

(Attn: Mr. Heller)

1 - Mr. Ryan

1 - Mr. Foster

HOUSE SELECT COMMITICE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESEIIATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

General fron G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director,

15CA, dated August 23, 1970, Which requested, in connectior

with

the IscA's investiration into the assassination o

Ds. Martin Luther King, Jr., material relating to five (5)

subjects.

Specifically, the HSCA requested information

pertaining to John Lorry Ray: Eurgess Audie Wilson; Alexander

Anthony Elet; the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee

(SuCC); and cortain photographs.

Inclosed are an original and one copy of a mero-

ranaun with an attachrent in partial rosponse to above-refcrenced

loiter. It is requested that dolivery be nade of a copy of

the memorandum and the attachment to the ESCA.

Inclosures (3)

ALL IFSETTON CONTATALD

:pfm

" (6)

62-117290

EX-137

62 19:10-1875

NOTE:

In

MAILED 3

1978

furnished a copy of their file regarding

EAP ;

00:

St. Louis (SL 76-4797)".

This file was processed

and is being furnished per Committee request.

21 978

SEP

The Committee requested the Jackson Field orrreé

file regarding Burgess Audie Wilson, who recently alleged he

was involved in the assassination of Dr. King.

It was explained

to Gerald Hamilton, HSCA, that Jackson was only circumstantially

Assoc. Dir. _

Dep. AD Adm. -

-involved in this investigation. -Hamilton orally modified

Dep. AD Inv. -

above-referenced

letter to request,only the FBI Headquarters

Asst. Dir.:

file on Wilson.

Investigation in this matter is still being

Adm. Servs. — conducted and is being included in the MURKIN file (44-38861).

cin. lor = No material is being made ayailable until the investigation is

-completed.

This is being coordinated with Special Agent

Laboratory -

Legal Coun. -

_Ha] N/ Helterhoff, Division Six.

Plan. & Insp. -

Rec. Mgnt. _

ENCLOSURE

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO.

Tech. Servs. -

Training -

Public Afts. Off.

Telephone Rm.

- 885 1

MA

no SOP 2 919795974p., Page 32

157

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 93

Assistant Attorney General

crininal Division

The HSCA requested, In Item 4, the Memphis Meld

Offico filos for SHCC. In response to Lutel to Hemphis,

8-30-78, Memphis furnished all rotrievable materlal for the

tine period in question.

Lastly, the HSCA requeried certain information re

carding photorraphs of latent fingerprints that had previously

been furniched.

Nichael Lberhardt, Hsch, advised that as the

committee-rotained fingerprint export had resigned and the

new experts found no problem with the photorraphs, thore was

no need to act on this particular requost.

- 2 -

NN 55032 DooId: 32989740 Page 93

---

## Page 94

1 - Legal Counsel Div.

Attn: Mr. Heller

1 - Mr. Ryan

1 - Mr.

Foster

POET AAOCO

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm..

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs..

Crim. Inv..

Ident.

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephone Rm..

Director's Sec'y

NW 55032

September 14, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE OT ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ISCA)

Reference Is made to the letter to the Attorney

General from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director,

HSCA, dated August 23, 1978, Which requested, In connection

vat the state west atto nate i resatant to dave (5)

subjects.

Specifically, the HSCA requested information

pertaining to John Larry Ray; Burgess Audie Wilson; Alexander

Anthony Dist; the Student Hon-Violent Coordinating Committee

(SHTCC); and certain photographs.

Attached is the St. Louis Field Office file on

the recent fugitive case involving John Larry Ray.

With respect to Item 2 In above-referenced letter,

as discussed with ISCA Staff member Gerald Hamilton, the

Jackson Field Office was only tangentially involved

in this

matter.

• In lieu of the Jackson Field office file, the file

at FBI

s,49 491 7l

Headquarters (FBIHQ) will be processed; however, this

Is currently a pending matter and processing will be held in

abeyance until Investigation is completed.

This 15 to advise that no retrievable information

was located pertaining to Alexander Anthony Eist for the

period in question.

With respect to Item 4, the herphis Field Offico

files regarding the Student Ilon-Violent Coordinating

Committee (SICC) have been processed and are available for

review at FBIHQ.

Finally, this is to confirn a conversation between

Special Agent Tron W. Brelle and Ilichael Eberhardt, HSCA,

during which fir. Eberharat advised that there would be no

need to address the last item in above-referenced letter, as

The Cormittee

has hired nett, latept fingerprint experts.

TWB: 61m 468, 1s

62-117790

ORIGINAL AND ZONE"SENT CO"ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAI,

marlosure (ICRIMINAL DIVISION: ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH. •

NOTE!"

Séeppirector, FBI, letter to the Assistant Attorney

General, Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch,

dated September 14, 1978, captioned as above.

helenais

MAIL ROOM

ENCLOSURE

FBI/DOJ

Page 94

---

## Page 95

ДИз стОксА, оНЮ,

DEVINE, OHIO

СТІНАПТ в, МСкІмнІ, сОнн.

UNKI, CALIF.

CHAALES THONI, MINA.

SAWYER, MIC.

FORD, TENN.

PLOYD. FITHIAN, tO.

W. DOGAR, PA.

(802) 225-882

"Seleti Committee on Assassinations

ME. House of Representatives

2931 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20315

Ric: office of Corgussional affairs

- Bi 0 9am

79.18.

August 23, 1978

8:-27-78

T

Brekke;

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice:

-Washington, D. C: 20530:

.::

Attention:

Mr. Robert Keuch

Deputy Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr.. Attorney

General:

In connection with the ongoing investigation by this

Committee into the circumstances surrounding the death of

DI. Martin Luther King, JI., the assistance of the Federal

Bureau of Investigation is requested in regard to the

following matters.

Prepare for delivery the 'St. Louis Field Office

file pertaining to the recent fugitive case

(August 21 - 22, 1978) concerning John Larry Ray.

Make access available to the Jackson Field Office

files pertaining to Burgess Audie Wilson.

Make access available to all information pertain-

ing to Alexander Anthony Eist, formerly with the

Flying Squad of New Scotland Yard. (Period: 1967-

• 1968)

Make access available to the Memphis Field Office

Iiles pertaining to the Student Non-Violent Coordin-

ating Committee

'(SNCC) for the period january

1968 through May 31; 1968.

Finally, by letter dated March 23, 1978 to the Attorney

General, this Committee requested photographic copies of all

latent fingerprints collected in the MURKIN investigation.

Subsequently, by letter dated April 13, 1978 to the Chief

Counsel of the Committee, the FBI responded, and furnished

the requested photographs. During the course of our examina-

tion of these photographs, the Committee's fingerprint

identification expert has concluded that some of the photo-

graphs are of insufficient quality to make an adequate review.

ENCLOSURE 62-117390-1175

NW. 55032 DocId:32989740 Page 95

---

## Page 96

Page 2.

The Connittee therefore requests that the Bureau review :

the duplicates of those photographs furnished, in order to

determine if better quality copies can be produced.….

Otherwise, the Committee would suggest as an alternative

method of examination...review of the original latent

lifts.

Your-continued cooperation and prompt attention in

these matters

is sincerely appreciated.

Very truly yours,

2. Robes Blake

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ghb

cc: Ron Heller

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 96

---

## Page 97

....

SEP 1

SEDERAL GOVERNNENE

Assistant Attornoy General

Crininal Division

Attention: Iir. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

Septerber 15, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COLMITTEE OT ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

1 - Mr. Mintz

Attn: Mr. Heller

1 = Mr: Bossett

Foster

1 - Mr. Busching

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

Irom G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

August T, 1978, which, in connection with the HSCA's Investi-

cation into the assassination of lartin Luther King, Jr.,

advised that the Committee had obtained authorization to be

furnished any and all Information maintained by the FBI

concerning and/or reccived from the Honorable Ambassador Young

auring the period March 1, 1900, through June 1, 1968. Submitüod

with the letter was Ambassador Young's release of a request

that the FBI make availablc all Headquarters and Field Office

files and subfiles of any nature pertaining to Ambassador

Young for the period enumerated.

By letter to the Attorney General from G. Robert

Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated August 21, 1978,

the above request was modified from making avallable aforesaid

Infornation to delivery of it.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandur

responding to the above request.

It is requested that you

curnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the asca.

Enclosures (2)

64137

82-117290

RCB :pfm

" (7)

REC89 60 11'9: :%n - 1876

22 SEP 21 1978

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

ENCLOSURE

Laboratory

Legal Coun..

Plan. & Insp. THY

Training

Public Alts. Off. —

Telephone Rm. -

No dE Do 44403289140

Page 97

:!?

55:31"

SECTS:

1235125151 футерка

nir.

in He fi-

R 3659

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 98

=

1 - Mr. Mintz

Attn:

Mr. Heller

1 - Mr. Bassett

1 - Mr.

Foster

1-

Mr. Busching

September 15, 1978

HOUSE SELECI COMTITTEE OU ASSASSINAIIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.sf

Crim. Inv. _

Ident. -

Intell.

-aborator

Legal Cour ET':

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt..

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y -

NW 55032

MAIL ROOM

DocId: 32989740

gation into the assassination of Martin Luther Kins, Jr,.

advised that the Committee had obtained authorization to be

furnished any and all information naintained by the FBI

concerning and/or received fron the Honorable Anbassador Young

during the perlod larch 1, 1968, through June 1, 1968.

Submitted with the letter

was Ambassador Young's release of

a request that the FBI make available all Headquarters and

Field Office files and subfiles of any nature pertaining to

Ambassador Young for the period enumerated.

By letter to the Attorney General from G. Robert

Blaley, chier councel and Director, HSGA, dated August 212

1978, the above request was modilled from making available

aforesaid information to delivery of It.

In response to the above request, partial delivery

of the items requested was made to HISCA representative

Lisa Berlow on Septerber 8, 1978, with the remainder o1 the

Items delivered to lIStA representative leslie Wizelman on

September 13, 1970, Aloresald Items were retrieved inom

rst Headquarters, Atlanta, Georgia, and Hemphis, Tennessce,

Meld Office files.

Where information is not provided, it is elther not

retrievable or 1s not being produced pursuant to the

"Memorandun of Understanding"

This letter completes our response to HSCA requesta

of August 7, 1978, and August 21, 1978.

RCB: pfm (7)

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

4 7741,290

CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT I. KEUCH

NOTE:

Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

, Criminal Division

september 15, 1978, captioned as above.

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch, dated

62.119

ENCLOSURE

FBI/DOJ

Page 98

---

## Page 99

SEDERAT GOVERNETI

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Ir. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

0

HOUSE SELECT CORNISIEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. 3. HOUSE OF REPRESENTASIVES (HSCA)

September 20, 1978

I - Legal Counsel Div.

Attn: Mr. Heller

1 - Identification Div.

Attn: Mr. Payne

1 - Mr. Ryan

1 - Mr. Foster

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

General from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA,

dated September 13, 1978, which requested, in connection with

the ISCA's investigation

into the assassination of Dr. Hartin

Luther kinG, Jr, that three (3) Metropolitan Police Departnent

officers be provided access to the original fingerprint cards

possessed by the FBI on six Individuals.

These sis Individuals

are:

James Earl Ray; Jerry William Ray; John Larry Ray;

Randolph Rosenson; Gus Prosch; and Jesse B. Stoner.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memo

randum in response to the above-referenced letter. It 13

requested that delivery be nade of one copy of the mcmorandun

to the SCA.

MAILED 6

S. Banner, Identification Division, it was decided that

to the fingerprint cards would be provided to the three

Metropolitan Police Department (MPD) officers referred to

@above. Access would be provided from Monday through Friday yo

0:00 a.m. until midnight; however, it would not be possible

nave Identification personnel available to assist the MPD

Sangerprint tar tatter normal

working nours,

Extention 2163,

Assoc. Dir. _

to assist those officers.

Dep. AD Adm..

20-737

Asst. Dis.:

De. DAD V2E5 552-7717290

Adm. Servs.

Crim. Inv. -

Ident. -

Intell..

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp. -

Rec. Mgnt. -

Tech. Servs. -

2

_ ENCLOSE.

Training

+ 3

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephone Rm.

GOSEP 29 197800M 5

NW 55032

Docta: 32989748

Page 99

REC89

631183901

= 57

117,

23

SEP 22 1978

Da 5122/801

CONTATNED

Дручцткі

Ma !!:

Ra 305i

FBITDOS

---

## Page 100

1 - Legal Counsel Div.

Attn: Mr. Heller

1 - Identification Div.

Attn:

Mr. Payne

1 - Mr. Ryan

1 - Mr. Foster

Septerber 20, 1978

LOUSE SELECI CONIFIDE OU ASOASSINAZIONS

U,S, ROUSE OF TEPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

retoronce is made to tha letter to the nttorney

Chief Counsel and Director,

ECA, dated Septerber 13, 1978, which requested, in connoctior

Trith

tho ESCA'o Investication Into the assessination of

Ba. lartin Luther ning, r., that three 13) letropolitan

FOlice Departrent (HED) officers be provided access to the

official fingerprint cardo posuessed by the Fat on six

individunlo.

Those air individualo are:

Janes Larl Roy;

Jerry WillIon Fay; John Larry Roy; Randolph Rosenson: Gus

Frosch; and Josse D. Stonor.

This monorandun is to advise that IIPD officers

Hormon Inith, Darroll Iinville, and lay Holbrook vill be riven

access to all the original fingerprint carde requested above.

Thesc fingerprint cards boy be revicued at FBI Hcadquarters

(PCIUQ) fron Honday through Friday, 8:00 a.n. until nidnicht;

hovover, It will not be possible to allon access to those

fingerprint cards during reckonds.

It is requested that, 11 at all posaible, the HiD

officors telophonically contact SA Iron W. Brelie, Concrecolonal

Inquiry Unit, Extention 3685, during nomal worline houra

(0100 a,n.-5:30 D.I.) priOn to arTival at FBINO to review tho

fIngerprint cards.

This tould facilliato in rolainc arrango-

ronto to have on FoI coployco avallable to assist thosc

offlecrs upon their arrival.

TWB :pIm

1(7)

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L, KEUCH.

NOTE:

See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

September 20, 1978, captioned as above.

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated

62-117290

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm..

Dep. AD Inv..

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

Crim: Inv. -

Ident. -

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off.

Telephone Rm.

Director's Sec'y -

NW

55032

MAIL ROOM

DocId: 32989740

Page

100

ENGLES

62 19019

FEl/DOJ

---

## Page 101

MAÍTEE L LAUNTROY, D.E.

YVONNE NRATHIMANTI SURKE, CALF.

CHRISTOPHIA 1, DOOD, COMA.

MANOLD B. FORD, TENN.

FLOTO S. FITMIAN, INO.

NORANT W. LORAR, PA.

SAMUIS. L. ОКИЇНІ, ОНЮ

ATTWANT & HC KINNEY, CONAL.

CHARLES ТНОНІ, NEBR.

малого в. влится, МІН.

(802) 227-1826

•

Delect Committee on Assassinations

I. Io. Iouse of Representatibes

SUI MOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

September 13, 1978

9-15-75

GRB : meh

XC:

Ron Heller

NW 55032

Docid: 32989740 Page 101

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy

• Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear MI. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

Into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, JI., it is

requested 'that access be provided for Metropolitan Police

Department Officers Norman Smith, Darrell Linville and

Ray Holbrook to all original fingerprint cards possessed

by the fil on the following subjects:

1) James Earl Ray, FBI #405942G

Ray, FBI #862651A

3) John Larry Ray, FBI #368-725A

4) Randolph Rosenson, FBI #34-711E

Gus Prosch, dob 11/17/30

6) Jesse B. Stoner, dob 4/18/24

It is further requested that the above-named officers,

who will be serving as fingerprint consultants to the

Select Committee for the examination of latent prints

resulting from the MURKIN investigation, be afforded access

to these original fingerprint cards during evening and

weekend hours where possible.

Your cooperation in this matter will be greatly

appreciated.

Sincerely,

12. Robex Blobey

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and

Director

ENCLOSURE

119010-1197

---

## Page 102

*106

DEPARIMEAT CE JUSTICE

PaRDON COUETH CEESTLOATION

*ESCORDFOL

- 9-14-30

UNCLAS EFT O

#FLOGERR SLEDE HQ NO106 257÷M0YEUR 142050Z SEP 78.

ROUTINE

LEM DIRECTOR FBI {62-117290}

LTO FBI ST. LOUIS ROUTINE

BT

':LUNCLAS EFTO

PHOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS EHSCAF

BUREAU DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 21, 1978.

THE HSCA, WHICH IS INVESTIGATING THE ASSASSINATIONS OF

PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY AND MARTIN LUTHER KING UR-, BY LETTER,

DATED SEPTEMBER 8, 1978, REQUESTED ACCESS TO ALL AVAILABLE

-REFERENCES AND FILES, BUREAU FILES AND FIELD OFFICE, ON A

-ST. LOUIS ORGANIZATION NAMED THE VEILED PROPHET: THE LETTER

-ALSO REQUESTED ACCESS TO ANY ROSTERS OF AGENTS FOR THE ST. LOUIS

-FIELD OFFICE FOR THE YEARS 196?. 1968 AND 1974.

PARTIAL SEARCH OF BUREAU INDICES REVEALS THAT THE VEILED

_PROPHET APPEARS TO BE A PRIVATE ORGANIZATION MADE UP OF

INDIVIDUALS IN THE HIGHER SOCIAL AND FINANÇIAL STRATA OF THE

ST. LOUIS AREA.

ALL, INFORMATICN CONTAINED

MATIN IS UNGLAESTGIEL

0 2884 БУрУпркЕ

H8/22/2P.

FRCE PFT

1 - MR. MINTZ

ATTN: MR. HELLER

- MR. BASSETT

- MR. FOSTER-

- MR. BUSCHING

•7-14-78.

.8.700/2

3683

REC-40

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

S2316

62-117 290-1182

17

SEP 18 1978

it JoSEP, 29 1978

DO Ta: 329897401/₽

Page 102

---

## Page 103

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL DUREAU OFILEST 1009

COMMUNICATION MESS4O3 COUM

CONTINU 3M.22

2121

PAGE TWO DE HO 0106 UNCLAS E FIO

IN RESPONSE TO THE ABOVE REQUEST, ST. LOUIS SHOULD REVIEW

INDICES TO IDENTIFY ALL RETRIEVABLE INFORMATION IDENTIFIABLE

WITH THE VEILED PROPHET AND FURNISH FBI HEADQUARTERS EFBIHQ} ONE:

LEGIBLE COPY OF EACH SERIAL.

ST. LOUIS SHOULD ALSO FORWARD ANY RETRIEVABLE ROSTERS OF

LAGENTS FOR THE REQUESTED YEARS.

ALL MATERIAL SHOULD BE FORWARDED BY COVER AIRTEL TO FBIHQ

LATTENTION: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MANAGENENT

I_LDIVISION.

_BT

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 103

---

## Page 104

B 079959Z SEP 78

EM LONDON (88-228)

TO DIRECTOR (62- 117299)

BT

*7 SEP 78. 10

16z

PRIORITY

RECEIVED

913-97

FEDERAL BUREAL

•OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Assos. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. 1D 15% _

Asst. Dir:

Cris. Inv

1d no.

Intel.

Latis siafy

Load "019.

Por & 1a05

Re.

"sus.

UNCLAS EFT O

Pubtle Afis. OR.

felephone Rm,

Drector's Sed'y

MURKIN.

RELONTEL 8/22/78.15?

IT WOULD BE APPRECIATED IF BUREAU WOULD ADVISE BY RETURN

TEL AS TO REQUEST MADE CONCERNING PAYMENT OF $200. 00 FOR

STENOGRAPHIC FEE INCURRED BY STAFF MEMBERS, HUA, DURING PERIOD

THEY WERE IN LONDON.

YCERICAN EMBASSY, LONDON, WILLING TO PAY FEE BUT MUST HAVE

A FUNDS CITATION IN ORDER IO KNOW WHO TO CHARGE FOR THIS AMOUNT.

PLEASE ADVISE.

it'!

BT

3.131

REC-70

62-117291-1883

17 SEP 20 1978

arrester

ALL INFATUATIO! CONTAIMED

D. 53578 pyroue

NW

Nu 350366 SEP 29 1978€

DocId: 32989740

Page 104

---

## Page 105

nK

-101

DETACRRENT CELUSTICE

2OALSUEEU CHIKESTIOTT

COMMENTATINGESAR-ESTA

2

9-18-78

UNCLAS EFT O

PRIORTY

FM DIRECTOR FBI {62-117290}

TO LEGAL ATTACHE LONDON PRIORTY

BT

UNCLAS EFT O

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS EHSCAS

RE LEGAT LONDON TELETYPE TO BUREAU DATED SEPTEMBER 7, 19781

CAPTIONED MURKIN•

ON SEPTEMBER 18. 1978, HSCA REPRESENTATIVE MICHAEL

EBERHARDT ADVISED THAT BY PRIOR ARRANGEMENTS MADE WITH THE

AMERICAN EMBASSY, LONDON, STENOGRAPHIC EXPENSES AS OUTLINED IN

REFERENCED TELETYPE WOULD BE PAID BY THE HSCA. EBERHARDT STATED

THE EMBASSY SHOULD BE ADVISED TO FORWARD STENOGRAPHIC BILL TO

THE HSCA, U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, WASHINGTON, D. C.

20515•

LEGAT FURNISH ABOVE INFORMATION TO APPROPRIATE OFFICIALS

AT EMBASSY.

3

HB/DR/8

: PFM

{2}

I - INTELLIGENCE

DIVISION

ATTN:

MR.

J. S. LEO

1 - MR. FOSTER

9-18-78

1 8788/4

3683

ALL INFOPEETTOT COITATHED

DATES aspare a

SEE NOTE PAGE THREE...

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAND:

COMMUNICATIONS REC 7O

5S16 62-12222

-184

SEP 19 19/8

77 SEP 20 1978

5903-12

TELETPE

Page 105

---

## Page 106

EPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEEDAL DUEAU OR INVESTIGATION

CC"LMUIICAT.ON MESSASBFON

- -

co: 011.

-

..'

NW 55032 DocId 32989740

Page 106

---

## Page 107

tor

TELETYPE

FM DIRECTOR FBI (62-117290)

TO LEGAL ATTACHE LONDON PRIORTY

NOTE: In connection with the investigation into the

issassination of Martin Luther king, Jr, the hoCA incurre

stenographic fees while its investigators were in London.

Referenced teletype requested FBI Headquarters

London regarding planned disposition of this debt by the

HSCA.

- 3 -

NW 55032 DooId: 32989740

Page 107

---

## Page 108

141

COPARTMENT OF JUSTIES

TEREDLEAD 07 E50400

COINS TIER INESSAGUEEN

9-19-78

UNCLAS EF TO

ROUTINE

F14LORR BH JN AT NO LATDE HQ NO141 262 NOYEOR 192123Z SEP 78

FM DIRECTOR FBI £62-117290}

TO FBI BIRMINGHAM ROUTINE

• FBI JACKSON ROUTINE

CA. FBI ATLANTA ROUTINE

FBI NEW ORLEANS ROUTINE

FBI LOS ANGELES ROUTINE

ALL INFORE TION CONTAINED

HE231

¡UNCLAS EFT O

CHOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS CHSCAI

BUREAU DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 26, 1978.

THE HSCA, WHICH IS INVESTIGATING THE ASSASSINATION OF

JOHN F. KENNEDY AND MARTIN LUTHER KING. JR. REQUESTED

BY

LETTER DATED SEPTEMBER 1Z, 1978, ACCESS TO ALL BUREAU FILE

MATERIAL AS WELL AS MATERIAL FROM THE FIELD OFFICES OF

BIRMINGHAM, JACKSON, ATLANTA, NEW ORLEANS AND LOS ANGELES,

ON THE CITIZENS COUNCIL OF AMERICA FOR THE YEARS 1967-1968.

IT IS TO BE NOTED THAT THE CITIZENS COUNCIL OF AMERICA IS A

A8 palejo

ARCB:PFM

12}

I - MR.

MINTZ

ATTN: MR. HELLER

1 - MR. FOSTER

1 - MR. BUSCHING

9-137

REC-7Q

8988/4

3663

62-112290

9 SEP 20 1978

C]

185

ded UNICATIONS SO:00

66 SEP 291978 C

SEP 2 0 1978

DS0155₴

• TELET

SPE

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 108

---

## Page 109

DEPARTMENT CE JUSTICE

FEEL RESU CHINESEGATCH

COMMUNE ATON MESSHOEFOON,

CONTENUATION SUBEY

PAGE TWO DE HR 0141 UNCLAS EF TO

SEPARATE ORGANIZATION FROM THE WHITE CITIZENS COUNCIL.

RECIPIENT OFFICES FURNISH FBI HEADQUARTERS TWO COPIES OF

ANY COMMUNICATION MEETING ABOVE CRITERIA. ALL COPIES SHOULD

BE CLEARLY LEGIBLE AND SHOULD BE SENT BY REGISTERED MAILI

MAILED TO THE ATTENTION OF THE CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT-

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION.

.IBT

--+-=-----------

00:01li..1111!e.

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 109

---

## Page 110

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRS

SAMUE

STEWAL

CHARLES ONE, NEBR.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

(202) 225-4624

Ree cro..

9/22/28

NADERAI GOVERANNE

(Select Committee on Assassinations

a.S. House of sepresentatines

9331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

September 21, 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20515

Attention:

Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the circumstances surrounding the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, Jr., the assistance of the Federal Bureau of

Investigation is requested in regard to the following matters:

1) Prepare for delivery the serials identified by

House Select Committee on Assassinations staff

member Barbara Robinson in Volumes 1 through 6

of the Atlanta Field Office MURKIN File.

2)

Prepare for delivery the materials previously prepared

for access pertaining to George Russell Byers, as per

House Select Committee on Assassinations request of

August 9, 1978.

3)

Prepare for delivery the following serials from the

Atlanta United Klans of America files:

157-370-2-579,

590, 546, 591, 514 and 561 p.4-11.

As time is extremely crucial in these matters your prompt

attention is appreciated.

81-137 REC-70

Very truly yours,

118%

SEP 26 iS/S

GRB: ghh

Vxc:

Mr. Ron Heller

NW

trong it 2 9 19/8

13034

socha: 928851104 page 10

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

62-117290

---

## Page 111

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIF

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUR

DEVINE, OHIO

WALTER E, FAUNTROY, D.G.

STEWAR MCKINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF,

CHARLES THONE, NEBR,

CHRISTOPHER J, DODD, CONN.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

HAROLD E, FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

4 ROBERT V. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

FADERAL GOVERANENT

(Select Committee on Assassinations

X.5. House of Representatibes

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

September 22, 1978

9/22/28

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

ATTENTION: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with its investigation into the

circumstances surrounding the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, Jr., the Select Committee requests the

assistance of the Federal Bureau of Investigation with

regard to the following matter:

Prepare for delivery the following serials:

Chicago Field Office File 44-1114:

Sub G, Serial 2

Sub H, Section 1, Serial 3

Sub H, Section

1, Serial 17

Your prompt attention to this matter is greatly

appreciated.

Sincerely,

X. Robert Blakey

G. Robert Blakey

EX-137

Chief Counsel

and Director

REC-7Q

12-10222

62-117290

Ron Heller

B

SEP 26 1J78

1187

66 SEP 29197881

Great as reginal

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 111

---

## Page 112

ENDERAL OOFERMUSUS

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Hr. Robert L. Keuch

Director, FBI

HOUSE SELECT COTICE ON ASSASSIIAIIONS

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (SCA)

September 8, 1978

I - Legal Counsel Division

(Attn: Mr. Heller)

1 - Mr. Bailey

1 - Mr. Ryan

1 - Mr. Foster

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

(.*)

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

Crim. Inv.

Ident..

Intell..

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training.

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephone Rm.

Dr. Martin Iuther King, Jr., that all material pertaining to

Joe Parish, Belle Chasse, Louisiana, in the files of FBI Head-

quarters and the lew Oricans Tield Office be made available.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandun

in response to the above-referenced letter. It is requested

that delivery of a copy of this memorandum be made to the

Inclosures (2)

62-117290

we firin

ANTATIOD

S/a8|84

NOTE: By teletype dated 8/29/78, New Orleans was requested to

furnish all retrievable information regarding Joe Parish. New

Orleans furnished this material, all of which was located in

New Orleans file 157-10673, by airtel dated 8/31/78.

'1

*CLOSURE

*- 137

REC 32

62-117240°

1189

MATLED

EF!T

WETUN: : UOCH

5

SEP 92 1978

1

1978

ZEb

1 265 Ladd

H3)E

MAR RAVI

FBI/DOJ

DocId: 32985740

Page

112

---

## Page 113

1 - Legal Counsel Division

(Attn: Mr. Heller)

1 - Mr. Bailey

1

- Mr. Ryan

1 - Mr. Foster

September 8, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COININTEE ON ASSASSINACIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is nade to the letter to the Attorney

General fron G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director,

ESCA, dated August 21, 1978, which requested, in connection

Trich

the usch's investigation into the assassination of

Dr. Martin luther ling, Jr., that all material pertaining to

nade available.

This 1o to advise that all retrievable information

In the files of FBI Icadquarters and the lew Orleans Mield

Office pertaining to Joe Parish has been processed and 13

available for review at IBliQ.

62-117290

(7)

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT I. KEUCH.

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to the Assistant Attorney

General, Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch,

dated September 8, 1978, captioned as above.

*= 7

5128\54

Assoc. Dir..

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Invo

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

Crim. Inv.

Ident..

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off.

Telephone Rm..

Director's Sec'y -

NW 55032

MAIL ROOM L

DocId: 32989740

Page 113

285 !

68-117990°

i:

ENCLOSURE

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 114

140

12.90

DEPARTMENT CE JUSTICE

coutrtu.21t20108502375-3

9-19-78

UNCLAS EFTO

$FZ4OURR MENDE HQ MOL40 262÷M0YEUR 192122Z SEP 78

ROUTINE

FM DIRECTOR FBI 162-117290}

TO FBI MEMPHIS ROUTINE

BT

UNCLAS E F TO

CHOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS CHSCAL

BUREAU DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 26, 1978.

THE HSCA, WHICH IS INVESTIGATING THE ASSASSINATION OF

JOHN F. KENNEDY AND MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., REQUESTED BY LETTER

DATED SEPTEMBER 12, 1978, THAT THEY BE PROVIDED THE NAMES OF

ALL FBI PERSONNEL, WHO MAY HAVE BEEN PRESENT ETHAT IS, ALL/O

PERSONS NOT ASSIGNED TO THE MEMPHIS FIELD OFFICES IN SHELBY

COUNTY DURING THE PERIOD COVERING MARCH LO, 1968, THROUGH

APRIL 4, 1968. THEY ALSO REQUESTED THE FBI PREPARE FOR

DELIVERY ANY AND ALL MATERIALS OR COMMUNICATIONS GENERATED BY

ANY SUCH PERSONS AS DISCUSSED ABOVE. TO DATE, A SEARCH OF

RETRIEVABLE INFORMATION AT FBI HEADQUARTERS HAS FAILED

TO

ASCERTAIN ANY FBI PERSONNEL OTHER THAN

READE ASSIGNED

5-110940-10

TO THE

72 SEP 2Q.1978

9-19-78 8988/4

3683

H3/DR/1P

RCB : PIM

{2}

1 - MR.

•MINTZ

ATTN: MR.

HELLER

1

- MR. FOSTER

I - MR. BUSCHING

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS, SECTION

SEP 2 0 1978

0220

ALL IN

MIA CONTAINED

IED

- Бзочівираке

540CT 3

1978

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 114

---

## Page 115

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FETERISM SAU CEMVESTIONTION

COMMUNICATION MESSIES FORES

2

CONTEUATION SHEET

PAGE TUO DE HQ DI4O UNCLAS ELF TO

MEMPHIS FIELD OFFICE IN SHELBY COUNTY DURING THE PERIOD

COVERING MARCH 10. 1968, THROUGH APRIL 4. 1968-

MEMPHIS THROUGH REVIEW OF FIELD OFFICE FILES ATTEMPT

TO RETRIEVE ANY INFORMATION MEETING ABOVE CRITERIA.

BT

----

1106: 62

NW 55032

DocId: 32989740

Page 115

---

## Page 116

.: $

FD-36 (Rev: 2-14-74)

• FBI

Date:

9/21/78

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRMAIL

(Precedence)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATTN: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT,

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

FROM:

SAC, BIRMINGHAM (66-2280) (RUC)

SUBJECT: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS

ReButel, 9/19/78, re Citizens Council of America.

Birmingham file 157-388 captioned, "Citizens Council

of America" contains 29 serials, only one

of which falls

within the years 1967-1968.

Two copies of that serial,

an article from the 7/17/68 issue of "The Birmingham News"

are enclosed.

"The Birmingham News" is a daily

published in Birmingham Alabama.

newspaper

7

AEL IT00

D.iiS/28/86

- MMAT ED

LUD

Bureau (Enc. 2 EYeLiSURE

BH

ALB: bhn

(3:).

lenesmaintained

in Rem 8988

RCB

5G0T

Approved:

KHAl

Special Agent in Charge

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 116

111'1, 1192

17 SEP 23 1978

RAE®

Sent .

_M Per

GPO: 1975 0 - 590-992

---

## Page 117

FD-350' (REva 7-16-63)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

(indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.)

1.

$500 Worth Of What?

The Citizens Council of America,

ing of the basic principle of constitu-

which used to be called the White

tional government and

the

basic

Citizens Council, is an organization

premises of a free society."

which; despite the dropping of the

He said that the commission hopes

racial adjective, still seems primarily

to get other viewpoints, but acknowl-

interested in promoting white -su-

edged that "our objective in this case

premacy.

is not to get a controlled response,

The

Alabama State Sovereignty

but one that will reflect a conserva-

Commission is a legislatively created

tive viewpoint."

: agency which spends $100,000 a year

In other words, the Citizens Coun-

from the public treasury.

Executive Secretary

Eli

cil is getting tax money to conduct a

Howell's

"survey" to establish

a predeter-.

rationalization notwithstanding,

the

mined position-which is a curious

Sovereignty Commission's spending

way to conduct a poll, even aside

of $500 for a survey to be conducted

from the questionable allocation of

by the Citizens Council (with another

public funds.

$500 still to be spent) is highly ques-

If

the

Sovereignty Commission

tionable use of tax funds, some por-

wants a conservative view on consti-

: tion of. which is paid by Negro citi-

tutional government, etc., it can get

: zens of Alabama.

it from people a whole lot more qual-

Hovell said the Citizens Council is

ified as conservative spokesmen than

to conduct a survey "on specific ques-

the Citizens Council; and it can get

Vions related to a general understand-

it a whole lot cheaper.

IL THA BIRMINGHAM

NEWS

- BIRMINGHAM POST-

HFRALD

BIRMINGTAN, ALABARIA

Date: 7-17-68

Edition: Metro

Author:

Editor:

John Ii. Bloomer

Title:

Citizens

Council of America

Character:

145-3:x1

Classification:

Submitting Office:

RIRMTNCHAM

• Being Invesilgated

05-388-23

SEARCHED

_ INDEXED _

SERIALIZED

_FILED

JUL 1 8 1968

FBI - BIRMINGHAM

61 117290-11921

ENCLOSURR

NW 55032 Doctar32389740-Page

---

## Page 118

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 101

JULY $973 EDITION

SSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

NITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

SAN FRANCISCO (62-

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS

DATE:

8/28/78

) (BERKELEY RA)

Enclosed for the Bureau is the original and

tour copies ot an uhM concerning this matter.

SA ROBERT F. PEVAHOUSE, Berkeley Resident Agency,

was initially contacted by Supervisor JAY L. ALDHIZER,

Congressional Inquiry Unit, on 7/14/78, to advise request

had been received from MIKE EBERHARDT, Council Select

Committee on Assassinations, for telephonic interview of

SA PEVAHOUSE, which has been approved by the Bureau and

SA PEVAHOUSE

has been cleared from employment agreement

to talk with Mr. EBERHARDT.

On 7/19/78, SA PEVAHOUSE discussed this matter •

further with Supervisor RON HELLER, Legal Counsel at the

Bureau, as to potential statements concerning interview.

No further contact was made until Mr. EBERHARDT

telephonically contacted SA PEVAHOUSE on 8/28/78 as set

forth in enclosed LHM.

6X-187

REC 32 65-117210-1195

Extr

V

dates

SEP 30 1971

'18

{*

Bureau (Enc. 5)"

1

San Francisco

RFP/rmc

(3)

99991792D

61

4 1978 Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 55032" DocId: 32989740

Page

---

## Page 119

!.

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL, BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

San Francisco, California

August 28, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

On August 28, 1978, Special Agent (SA) Robert

F. Pevahouse, Berkeley

Resident Agency, Federal Bureau

of Investigation (FBI), was telephonically cuntacted by

Mike Eberhardt, House Select Committee on Assassinations.

He was furnished the residence address and telephone

number of SA Pevahouse.

Mr. Eberhardt inquired about the fugitive

investigation of James Earl Ray during the time Ray

was an Unlawful Flight fugitive.

He was told SA Pevahouse

received a lead

from another office to contact Jerry Ray,

brother of James Earl Ray, who was living in Northbrook,

Illinois at the time. Jerry Ray was contacted telephon-

ically by SA Pevahouse at which time Jerry advised he had

not seen or heard from his brother since prior to his

escape from prison.

Jerry Ray also furnished information

he had concerning other members of the family, including

John Ray, none of whom were in the chicago area. It was

the recollection of SA Pevahouse that John Ray was in the

St. Louis area at the time.

SA Pevahouse could not recall

specific time of interview

as to number of months prior to

assassination of Martin

Luther King.

He noted there were

no other relatives or associates of James Earl Ray inter-

viewed in the Chicago area to his knowledge.

Concerning the investigation after the assassina-

tion of Martin Luther King, Mr. Eberhardt inquired as to

knowledge of any specific records from the Sportsman's

Club in Northbrook, Illinois, to show if Jerry Ray was

working at the time of the assassination. SA Pevahouse

stated he could not recall at this late date any specific

records concerning the dates worked, but,

as he racalled,

personnel at the Sportsman's Club had indicated Jerry Ray

was there except during regular days off.

П.........?......

---

This document

contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

FERRETO COUNTIED

ENCLOSURE

67-117240-1145

---

## Page 120

FD-36 (Rev. 3-24-77)

TRẠNGMIT VIA:

• Teletype

Facsimile

AIRTEL

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

• Priority

_ Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

I SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

EF TO

I CLEAR 9/7/78

Date

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

RK FROM

: SAC, ST. LOUIS (62-5097)

SUBJECT: HOUSE SETECT COMMITIE

ON ASSASSINATIONS - MURKIN

Enclosed herewith are four copies of an LHM

setting forth the results of a telephone interview

between former SA CLETIS B. BIDEWEIL and MICHAEL EBERHARDT,

Staff Attorney, House Select Committee on Assassinations,

Washington, D. C., on 8/31/78.

Former Agent BIDEWELL had previously been advised

in late July, 1978, by SA JAY ALDHIZER, FBIHQ, that

former Agent BIDEWELL might be contacted telephonically

EBERHARDT of the House Select Committee on

Assassinations.

Former Agent BIDEWELL, on 8/31/78, received a

telephone call at his home, 1116 Culverhill Drive,

Webster Groves, MO.

63119, telephone #962-0972, from

an individual who identified himself as MICHAEI

EBERHARDT,

requesting an interview by telephone.

- Bureau (Enc.

1 - St. Louis

CBB: kam

• (3)

LANSURE

REC-125

62-117338-11957

22 SEP 9 1978

ALL IN

MIA! PAT THED

6I JAN 261979

Approved:

NX 55032 DocId: 32939740 Page 120

Transmitted

Per .

(Number)

(Time)

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 121

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

St. Louis, Missouri

September

• 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Former Agent Cletis B. Bidewell advised on

questioning that he had on at least one occasion inter-

viewed Carol Pepper, sister of James Earl Ray, suspect

in the assassination of Doctor Martin Luther King in

Memphis, Tennessee.

At that time, Carol Pepper was

residing in Maplewood, Missouri, and the unlawful flight

to avoid confinement case against James Earl Ray,

resulting from his escape from the Missouri State

Penitentiary, Jefferson City, Missouri, was assigned to

Special Agent (SA) Bidewell in the St. Louis Division,

At this time, no information had been developed indicat-

ing that James Earl Ray was a suspect in the murder of

Doctor King.

The interview with Carol Pepper was most

frustrating since it appeared she was completely un-

cooperative in furnishing any information concerning

possible whereabouts of James Earl Ray.

To the best

oI his recollection, SA Bidewell advised that no other

Agent accompanied him on this interview and two or three young

children, presumably children of Carol Pepper, were in the

home at the time of the interview.

With respect as to how the lead to interview

Carol Pepper was obtained, it was recalled by SA Bidewell

that the lead was developed as a result of background

office of origin in the unlawful flight to avoid confinement

that no information was obtained through the interview of

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency

- 5130|80

62

117240-1145

ENCLOSURE

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 121

---

## Page 122

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Pepper as to the possible whereabouts of her brother

area subsequent to his escape from Missouri State

Penitentiary in Jefferson City, Missouri.

SA Bidewell further recalled that shortly

after his interview with Carol Pepper, James Earl Ray

became the prime suspect in the Doctor King murder and

the case on James Earl Ray was reassigned to an Agent

who could give full time to this matter and no further

investigation was conducted in this matter by SA Bidewell,

other than to cover an occasional minor lead which was

2*

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 122

---

## Page 123

The Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Iir. Robert Keuch

Director, FBI

PEDERAI INFERENT

POUSE SELECT CONFITE OI ASSASSINATIONS

1 - Mr.

Long - Enc.

1

-

Mr.

Foster - Enc.

1 - Mr. Mintz - Enc.

September 18, 1978

2

1

- Mr. Coulson

- Enc.

- Mr.

Heller - Enc.

In accordance with Attorncy General Order

116-56, this merorandun advises that Special Agent

Robert F. Pevahouse, Eerkeley Resident Agency,

San Francisco Division, vas interviewed on August 28,

A memorandur setting forth Mix. Pevahouse's

account of this interview is enclosed for your in-

fornation.

Enclosure

1 - Personnel file - Robert F.

Pevahouse - Enclosure

MAILED 6

SEP 2 0 1978

FBI

5/30/56

APPROVED:

Director

Assos. Dif.

Dep. ADridmi.

Dep. AD Inv.

REC 32

Spyrepare

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.-

Crim. Inv..

Ident. -

Intell..

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan, & Insp.

- (10)

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y

MAIL ROOM

My F503 T DodI4933889740

Lage

123

Adm. Serv.

Crim. Inv.

Ident.

Rec Mant.

Intell.

Tech. Servs."

Laboratory

Training,

Public Affs. Off.

11170

1196

154

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 124

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHAROSON PESYER, N.C.

SAMUEL LiE MINE, OHIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

"YVONNE BRATHWAITE SURKE, CALIF.

STEWART?

"KINNEY. CONN.

*, NEBR.

CHRISTOPHER S SODD, CONN.

HAROLD S.

TER, MICH.

HAROLO E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIANS, IND.

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

H.5. House of Representatines

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

September 25, 1978

Rec ClU

9-25-78

4:24pm

SIDERAT COVERIUESE

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the circumstances surrounding the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, Jr., the assistance of the Federal Bureau of

Investigation is requested in regard to the following matters:

1) Prepare for delivery the folowing Chicago Field

Office file serials: 44-1114-4043 through 4069.

2)

Make available for staff interview, Special Agent

Cliff Halter assigned to the Memphis Field Office

in 1968.

3)

Prepare for delivery on a priority basis the MURKIN

serials 6177 through 6224, appearing in Section 91

of the BUFILE, identified respectively:

a)

1/19/77 memo (12 pages)

J.S. Peelman to Gallagher

Subject:

Report of the DOJ Task Force to

Review the FBI-MLK Security and

assagfination INvestigations:

b)

1/21/77 memo (10 pages)

REC-60

6: 4722-1199

Director FBI to Attorney General

Subject: Same

9 SEP 2° 1978

c)

2/2/77 memo (8 pages)

J.S. Peelman to GaLlagher

Subject: Same

62-117290

660CT 4 1978

TW 556351-

DocId: 32989740 "Fage 124°

---

## Page 125

• The Honorable Griffin B. Bell.

Page Two

đ)

2/18/77 memo

Peelman to Gallagher

Subject: Same

Make available for staff interview Special Agent

William J. Quinn formerly assigned to Division 6

and temporarily assigned to Division 5 at Headquarters

in 1968.

As always your assistance is sincerely appreciated.

Very truly yours,

1. Rolen Bitte

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

RB : ght

Axc

Mr. Ron Heller

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 125

---

## Page 126

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRM!

RICHARDSO PREVER,.J.C.

SAMUEL L

INE, OHIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.G.

STEIVART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWTITE BURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES THONS, NEBR.

CHRISTOPHER 3: DODD, CONN.

HARO.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

ROBERT 14. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 223-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

_-H.5. House of Representatines

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

•WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

September 22, 1978

9/27/25

FEDERAL GOVEFNMENE

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the

United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20430

Attention:

Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the ongoing investigation by the

Committee into the circumstances surrounding the death of

Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., the assistance of the Federal

Bureau of Investigation is requested in regard to the

following matters:

1) Make available for staff interview the

following Special Agents:

a. Ted Rushing

b. Joseph G. Deegan

c. Thomas J. Deakin

2)

Prepare for access any and all BUFILE

and Field Office material on an individual named

Leander Perez, Sr., who resided in Plaquemines

Parrish, Louisia.

REC6062-117241-1201

By memorandum to the HSCA dated February 13, 1978, the FBI

responded and advised that their records indicated that

Frank Raval Legis, neither served nor is presently serving as

a Special Agent.

In continuance of that request, January 24,

1978, the Committee would appreciate the FBI conducting the

the

appropriate records check to determine whether rank p

Legis;

Frank Raul Legis; Frank Lee Legis; or Frank Raoul

Legis is presently serving or has served the Bureag aStra 29 1978

Special Agent.

62-117290

179051

1918.

H: 32989746- Paa

Page 126-

---

## Page 127

Page 2.

As always your continued cooperation is greatly

appreciated.

Very truly yours,

4. Rolex Blaby

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel

and Director

GRB: ghb

XC:

Mr. Ron Heller

NN 55032 DooId: 32989740

Page

127

---

