# docid-32300736

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10277-10071

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3267-420

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

FBI

SAC, LA

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/29/1963

1

JRO, ASSOC, B/F INT, TRA, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32300736

Page 1

---

## Page 2

=

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Registered

Date: 1/29/63

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-1130)

SUBJECT:

JOHN ROSELI, aka

AR

LA 4396-C* states ROSSELLI has not returned to Los

apartment since 1/23/63. Investigation at Los Angeles Inter-

national Airport reveals ROSSELLI's car still parked at air-

port and that when he turned it over to the valet parking

service on 1/23/63, he said he would return on 9/25/63.

On 1/7/63, ROSSELLI deposited $4500 to his account

at Fidelity Bank, Beverly Hills, California.

drawn on the account of LOUIS J. LEDERER at the Exchange National

Bank of Chicago, Illinois and was for payments of $750 per month

for first six months of 1963 owed by LEDERER to ROSSELLI for sale

of Nevada Concessions, Inc. in 1958.

ERNEST LE BLANC, steam room attendant, Friar's Club,

Beverly Hills, interviewed

as source of information regarding

ROSSELLI's activities at the Friar's Club and agreed to cooperate.

on 1/29/63, PCI GEORGE COSTELLO, Owner:

Actor Dial

Answering Service, Hollywood, California,

made available messages

left for BARBARA BARRETT, a girl friend of MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN,

part owner of the New Frontier Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada. Un

1/22/63, BARRETT received a call from

"Mr. FRIEDMAN, Care 01

Mr. HELLERMAN, Apt. 120" at telephone number CR 4-7777, which

the Beverly Hilton Hotel, Beverly Hills,

California.

HELLERMAN

probably identical with the

M. HELLERMAN with whom ROSSELLI

travelled to Las

vegas on 1/23/63.

Burea

1- Los Angel

HFD : DHA

REC- 22

(4)

923247

* JAN 311963

420

Approved:

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32300736

Page 2

---

