JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90063-10045
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 109-584-3958
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MM
: TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 06/01/1964
PAGES: 3 :
SUBJECTS :
ANTI FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES
ROGELIO CISNEROS DIAZ
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT ,
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATEOF LASTREVIEW: 06/20/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF NSA
MEMO

COMMENTS :

v9.1
Docld:32327395 Page 1


MM 105-1742 SEG} ET ;

Mr. CISNEROS stated he listened to the re-
cording but he did not know what significance it might
have since he could not understand it and therefore
he desired to turn it over to the FBZ as possibly
being a coded message by anti-CASTRO elements. He

said, it would appear, or at least be his guess that
és io! mission was being sent from the area
4 bly directed to Cuba. Mr. CISNEROS

stated ALDO GIL at Littleton, Massachusetts could furnish
further details and also the name of the JURE member in
the Boston area who monitored and recorded the trans-
mission. CISNEROS added he understands that other
transmissions of a similar. nature have also been re-
corded by the member of JURE at Boston. He said the
JURE delegation at Boston also possesses an identical

copy of the tape recording which CISNEROS turned over
to FBI, Miami. &

The tape recording furnished by CISNEROS is
ansmitted herewi to the Burea: qwith the suggestion
e be rnished to 5}
seudy JES) 7

The Boston Office is Yequested to contact
ALDO GIL, 476 King Street, Littleton, Massachusetts,
to obtain any additional information concerning the
reported Spanish language broadcasts which are being
recorded by a member of the JURE delegation at Boston. wm

ireau Source 6 for. appropri, te(¢
=O Pe 054 Lebiec§ RY 9¢-

