# docid-32304125

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10285-10137

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: CR 62-9-42-80

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. SL

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/27/1959

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT:

BBA, ASSOC, LOCAL 405 TEAMSTERS, RACK ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/09/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32304125

Page 1

---

## Page 2

•Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO,.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 3/27/59

SUBJECT:

SAC, ST. LOUIS (92-263)

0 Top Aesthet

INFORMATION CONCERNING

LABOR RACKETEERING NOT WITHIN

BUREAU JURISDICTION

CRIMINAL RACKETS ACTIVITIES

on 3/24/59 sI 1130-C advised, SA HOWARD C. KENNEDY

he had on

3/20/59 talked to Mr. (FNU) BARTOSIC, Executive

Assistant

to MARTIN O'DONOHUE of the court appointed Monitors,

Teamsters International Union Office, in which he called to

BARTOSIC's attention the fact that a letter directed to the

Monitors by ousted officers of Local 405, St. Louis, on

2/16/59 had not yet been answered.

Informant advised that

in this letter they had called to the Monitors' attention that

BARNEY BAKER had been appointed as Secretary-Treasurer of Local

405, Teamsters, when HAROLD JOSEPHIGIBBONS took over as

International

Trustee and that BAKER was succeeded by PETE

SAFFO at the time that SAFFO was Secretary-Treasurer of

Teamsters Local 610, St. Louis.

The letter mentioned that

by PHiLYREICHARDT who holds this office Me

at this time and that none of these had previously been

members of Local 405, nor had they ever driven any taxicabs

to the knowledge of the writers of this letter, which was

signed by informant, LLOYD YOUNG, TOM SMITH, and CHARLES

SUMMERS.

This letter further pointed out that the only

elected officers of the local had been discharged from their

Jobs by GIBBONs,

that no detailed financial statement had

ever been submitted to the membership since 1953,

that no one

except the Secretary-Treasurer had been permitted to examine

the books and records. of the local, that there were no.

benefits enjoyed by the membership except a $1,000 term life

Insurance policy, that membership dues of $5 per month had

been paid by all members since 1953, although the membership

had been informed that there was no balance on hand in the

local's bank account, and that the local is actually now in

debt.

62 AP

This letter further pointed out that there had bee

four strikes called in recent years, that gains had been ver

minor in nature,

and that meetings of all members had been

prohibited, meetings being conducted on a company-wide basis

letter concluded that GIBBONS had refused to

grant lodautautonomy and that GIRBONS had not attended any

meetings within recent years and had to rely on the word of

local officers whö have no experience in the taxicab drivers!

profession.

REC- 53

- Bureau

- st. Louis (1-92-263) 11-137-315311

23 MAR 30 1959

1950

J.K. 0w9

CRIMENT

cope

DocId: 32304125 Page 2

---

