# docid-32989781

## Page 1

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 55261 Date:

04-10-2018

File #:

62- 0C- 4107

Serial Scope:

I thra 10

DO NOT

DESTROY

FOIPAH NIA

ITH

Fangest

---

## Page 2

1

IP874 "A CODE

952PII MITEL 5-2-75 MSE

TO ALL SACS

FSON DIRECTOR (52-116395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

#SAC

SENSTUDY 75

CAPTIONED MATTER PERTAINS TO DUREAU'S HANDLING OF RECIESTS

FROL: SEATE AUN HOUSE SELECT CONCITTEFS IO STInY COvENMENTAL

OPERATIONS "ITH RESPECI IO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES. IN CONFC-

TION "ITH WORK OF THESE COMMITTEES, STAFF NEIBERS MAY GEF!

TO INTERVIE: CURRENT AND FORMER FBI ENPLOYFES.

RECENTLY, THE SENATE SELECT COMMITIER (ESC) STAFE HAS

INTERVIEYED SEVERAL FORMER EMPLOYEES AND IT IS ANTICIPATED

THAT MANY MORE SUCH PERSONNEL "ILL BE CONTACTED.

THE FBI HAS PLEDGED FILL COOPERATION WITH THE CONMITTEE

AND "E MISH TO ASSIST AND FACILITATE ANY INVECTIGATIONS UNDER-

TAKEN BY THE COMNITTEE "ITH RESPECT TO THE FRI. HOWEVER, "E

DO HAVE AN OSLICATION TO INSURE THAT SENSITIVE COURCES AND

METHODS AND ONGOING SENSITIVE INVESTICATIONS ARF FILLY

per

62-4107-1

NN 55199 DocId:32989781

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE THO

PROTECTED. SHOULD ANY FORMER EMPLOYEE CONTACT YOUR OFFICE AND

HAVE AÑY QUESTION REGARDING HIS OPLIGATION NOT TO DIVULGE INFO?-

MATION OBTAINED BY VIRTUE OF HIS PAST FBI EMPLOYMENT, HE SHOULD

DE INSTRUCIED TO CONTACI LEGAL COUNSEL, FEIMO, BY COLLECI CALL.

YOUR COWVERSATIONS WITH FORMER EMPLOYEEC MUST BE IN KEEPING -ITH

OUR PLEDGE. IT IS BELIEVED SUCH A PROCEDURE MOULD INSURE PROPER

PROTECTION AND ALSO FACILITATE THE "ORK OF THE SSC.

THE ABOVE PROCEDURE ALSO APPLIES TO CURRENT EMPLOYEES

OF YOUR OFFICE. • HOEVER, CONTACI MITH THE LEGAL COUNCEL SHOULD

BE KANDLED THROUGH THE SAC.

END

RETURN TO TALK ON THE CONFERENCE

NH 55199 DocId:32989781 Page 3

---

## Page 4

ROSO MA CODE

5: 22P1 HITFL 5-23-75 PAW

ID ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

(52-115395)

PER SOMAL

ATTENTIO'

EASTESY - 75. Sina Study

REB TEL MAY ?, 1975.

IN CONECTION MITH WORK OF THE SENATE AND HOUSE SELECT

COMMITTEES, ITS REPRESENIATIVES MAY CONTACI YOUR OFFICE FOR

NFORVATION.

IN OVE PTOENI INSTANCE, A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SENATE

SELECI COMMITTEE TELEPHOLICALLY INQUIRED AS TO IDENTITY OF SAC

E A PARIICULAR OFFICE DURIVE 197%..

IN HANDLING SUCH INQUIRIES INSURE ESTÄBLISHING BONA FIDES

& REPRESENTATIVE BY SHOW OF CREDENTIALS ON PERSONAL CONTACT OF,

I TELEPHONIC CONTACT, BY TILEPHONIVS BACK TO COMMIITER.

ILESS INFORMATION IS OF A PUBLIC NATURE, AS IN THE INSTANCE

CITED ABOVE, OBTAIN FBINE CLEARANCE PRIOR TO SUPPLYING ANY

NFORMATION. FBIHA MUST BE EXPEDITIOUSLY ADVISED OF ALL

NORMATION FURNISHEO.

END

FSI OKLA CITY

SEARCHED

SERIALIZE.

12228

FILD

Surer.

HH 55199 DocId:32989781 Page 4

Farrels As

62-4107-2

---

## Page 5

NR033 WA CODE

7:15PM 9/4/75 NITEL AJN

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECIOR (62-116395)

PERSONAL ATENTION

SENSTUDY 75

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

PURPOSES OF INSTANT TELETYPE ARE TO (1) REITERATE THAT

FBI HAS PLEDGED FULL COOPERATION WITH THE SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE (SSC) AND WISHES TO ASSIST AND FACILITATE ANY

INVESTIGATIONS UNDERTAKEN BY THE SSC WITH RESPECT TO THE FBI;

AND (2) SET FORTH NEW PROCEDURE RELATING TO SSC STAFF

INTERVIEWS OF CURRENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES.

FOR INFORMATION OF THOSE OFFICES WHICH HAVE NOT PREVIOUSLY

HAD CURRENT OR FORMER EMPLOYEES IN ITS TERRITOY INTERVIEWED

BY THE SSC, THE BUREAU FREQUENTLY LEARNS FROM THE SSC OR

OTHERWISE THAI FORMER EMPLOYEES ARE BEING CONSIDERED FOR

INTERVIEW BY THE SSC STAFF. INSTRUCTIONS ARE ISSUED FOR THE

FIELD OFFICE TO CONTACI THE FORMER EMPLOYEE TO ALERT HIM AS TO

POSSIBLE INTERVIEW, REMIND HIM OF HIS CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT

WITH THE BUREAU AND SUGGEST THAT IF HE IS CONTACTED FOR

coveR

ASAC

#5 ml.

#6-

SEARCHEDZAS

SERIALIZEDTIE

FILED

SEF 4

1975

FBI- OKLAHUIVIA CITY

SAC

62-41073

75199

DocId: 32989781

Page 5

---

## Page 6

r.

PAGE TWO

INTERVIEW, HE MAY CONTACT THE LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION BY

COLLECT CALL FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. IN THE USUAL CASE,

AS CIRCUMSTANCES UNFOLD, THE FORMER EMPLOYEE IS TOLD(1)

THAT HE HAS A RIGHT TO LEGAL COUNSEL, BUT THAT THE BUREAU

CANNOT PROVIDE SAME; (2) THAT THE BUREAU HAS WAIVED THE

CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT FOR THE INTERVIEW WITHIN SPECIFIED

PARAMETERS; AND (3) THAT THERE ARE FOUR PRIVILEGED AREAS IN

WHICH HE IS NOT REQUIRED TO ANSWER QUESTION. THESE AREAS

ARE RELATING TO INFORMATION WHICH MAY CA) IDENTIFY BUREAU

SOURCES; (B) REVEAL SENSITIVE METHODS/TECHNIQUES; (C) REVEAL

IDENTITIES OF THIRD AGENCIES, INCLUDING FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE

AGENCIES, OR INFORMATION FROM SUCH AGENCIES; AND (D) ADVERSELY

AFFECT ONGOING BUREAU INVESTIGATIONS.

HERETOFORE, BUREAU HAS OFFERED INTERVIEVEES CONSULTATION

PRIVILEGES WHEREBY A BUREAU SUPERVISOR WOULD BE AVAILABLE

NEARBY, ALTHOUGH NOT ACTUALLY. AT INTERVIEW, SO INTERVIEWEE

MIGHT CONSULT WITH HIM SHOULD QUESTIONS ARISE AS TO PARAMETERS

OF INTERVIEW OR PRIVILEGED AREAS. THE CONSULTANT DID NOT ACT

AS A LEGAL ADVISOR.

EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY, BUREAU WILL NO LONGER PROVIDE

7 T-32989781 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PAGE THREE

ON-THE-SCENE PERSONNEL FOR CONSULTATION PURPOSES TO ASSIST

EITHER CURRENT OF FORMER. EMPLOYEES. PROSPECTIVE INTERVIEWEES

SHOULD BE TOLD THAI, IF THEY DESIRE ASSISTANCE OF THIS NATURE

DURING AN INTERVIEW, THEY MAY CONTACT EITHER PERSONALLY (IF

INTERVIEW IS IN WASHINGTON, DO CO) OR BY COLLECT CALL, THE .

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, MR. W. Ro

WANNALL, OR, IN HIS ABSENCE, SECTION CHIEF W. O. CREGAR.

THIS CHANGE IN PROCEDURE SHOULD NOT BE CONSTRUED AS

LESSENING THE ASSISTANCE WE ARE FURNISHING TO CURRENT AND

FORMER EMPLOYEES.

FOR YOUR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, I AM WORKING WITH THE

DEPARIMENT IN EXPLORING AVENUES TO ARRANGE LEGAL REPRESENTATION,

WHEN NECESSARY, FOR CURRENT AND FORMER EMPLOYEES WITHOUT

EXPENSE TO THEM. YOU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED OF DEVELOPMENIS

IN THIS REGARD.

END

PLS HOLD

• HH 55199 DocId: 32989781

Page 7

---

## Page 8

NR 030 WA CODE

5:53PM NITEL 9/5/75 PMJ

TO ALEXANDRIA

BALT IMORE

BOSTON

CHICAGO

DALLAS

EL PASO

JACKSON

JACKSONVILLE

LOS ANGELES

MEMPHIS

BIRMINGHAM

CINCINNATI

INDIANAPOLIS

LOUISVILLE

MIAMI

NEW YORK

OKLAHOMA CITY

PHILADELPHIA

PHOENIX

SAN DIEGO

SAN FRANCISCO

ST. LOUIS

SAVANNAH

SEATTLE

FROM DIRECTOR (62-116395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY 75

REBUTELS MAY 2, 1975, AND SEPTEMBER 4, 1975.

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) HAS REQUESTED WHEREABOUT S

OF A NUMBER OF FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES INDICATING THEY MAY BE

INTERVIEWED BY THE SSC STAFF. LISTED BELOW, BY FIELD OFFICE

TERRITORY, ARE THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES AND THEIR LAST KNOWN

ADDRESSES AS CONTAINED IN BUREAU FILES.

ASAC

3-

Sup

дрон

SEARCH

275

15

4.10

giC

9:43cm

HH 55199

62-4107-4

DocId: 32989781 Page 8

---

## Page 9

PAGE TWO

INFORMATION FROM SSC INDICATES NAMES OF FORMER SA'S

• LITRENTO AND STEWART DEVELOPED AS HAVING BEEN RESPONSIBLE FOR

SUPERVISING COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN THE FBI AND CIA CONCERNING

MAIL OPENING ACTIVITIES. • ALL OTHERS IN LIST BELOW WERE EITHER

SAC, ASAC, OR BOTH, DURING PERIOD 1959 - 1966 IN ONE OR MORE

OF THE FOLLOWING OFFICES: BOSTON, DETROIT, LOS ANGELES, MIAMI,

NEW YORK, SAN FRANCISCO, SEATTLE, AND WASHINGION FIELD. THEY

PRESUMABLY ARE ALSO KNOWLEDGEABLE CONCERNING MAIL OPENINGS.

EACH OF THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES IS TO BE IMMEDIATELY

CONTACTED AND ALERIED THAT HE MIGHT BE APPROACHED BY THE SSC

STAFF FOR INTERVIEW. THE FORMER EMPLOYEE MAY, AFTER BEING.

CONTACTED BY SSC STAFF, CONTACT BUREAU'S LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION

BY COLLECI CALL FOR FULL INFORMATION TO ASSIST HIM INCLUDING

OBLIGATIONS AS TO CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION ACQUIRED AS

FBI EMPLOYEE. IT IS EMPHASIZED THAI BUREAU'S OFFER OF

ASSISTANCE IS NOT INTENDED TO IMPEDE SSC WORK, BUT IS DONE

AS COOPERATIVE GESTURE AND TO SAFEGUARD SENSITIVE BUREAU

INFORMATION•

HH 55199 DocId: 32989781

Page 9

---

## Page 10

PAGE THREE

CONTACTS WITH THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES TO BE HANDLED

PERSONALLY BY SAC OR ASAG. IN EVENT THIS IS NOT FEASIBLE

FOR JUST CAUSE, TO BE HANDLED BY A SENIOR SUPERVISOR.

IMMEDIATELY AFTER CONTACT, RESULTS SHOULD BE FURNISHED

BUREAU BY NITEL IN ABOVE CAPTION, BRIEFLY INCLUDING REACTION

OF FORMER EMPLOYEES CONTACTED. IF A FORMER EMPLOYEE NO

LONGER IN YOUR TERRITORY OR TEMPORARILY AWAY, SET OUT LEAD TO

OTHER OFFICE IMMEDIATELY WITH COPY TO FBIHQ.

ALEXANDRIA:

W. DONALD STEWART, CRYSTAL HOUSE I, APARTMENT 202, ARLINGTON,

VIRGINIA.

JAMES HO GALE, 3387 ROCKY MOUNT ROAD, FAIRFAX, VIRGINIA

THOMAS E BISHOP, 8820 STARK ROAD, ANNANDALE, VIRGINIA

BALT IMORE:

ANTHONY P. LITRENTO, 2810 STONYBROOK DRIVE, BOWIE, MARYLAND

PAUL O'CONNELL, JRO, 2417 STRATTON DRIVE, POTOMAC, MARYLAND

DONALD E. RONEY, 131 CAMBRIDGE DRIVE, WINDSOR HILLS,

WILMINGTON, DEL AWARE

VICTOR TURYN, 2645 TURF VALLEY ROAD, ELLICOTT CITY,

MARYL AND

DONALD W. MORLEY, BOX 222, NEW MARKET, MARYLAND

L1H 55100 DocId: 32989781 Page 10

---

## Page 11

PAGE. FOUR

BIRMINGHAM:

BOSTON:

CHICAGO:

MART, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

CINCINNATI:

DALLAS:

EL PASO:

INDIANAPOLIS:

INDIANA

JACKSON:

MISSISSIPPI

JOHN DAVID POPE, JR., 221 REMINGION ROAD, BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA

LEO L. LAUGHLIN, 9 EVERETT AVENUE, WINCHESTER, MASSACHUSETIS

EDWARD J. POWERS, ID COLONIAL DRIVE, BEDFORD, NEW HAMPSHIRE

J.F. DESMOND, 185 FRANKLIN STREET, BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS

MARLIN W. JOHNSON, CANTEEN CORPORATION, THE MERCHANDISE

HARVEY GO FOSTER, 1012 SOUTH HAMLIN, PARK RIDGE, ILLINOIS

PAUL FIELDS, 2677 CYCLORAMA DRIVE, CINCINNATI, OHIO

HARRY J. MORGAN, 5314 ELMCREST LANE, CINCINNATI, OHIO

PAUL MO STODDARD, 3014 CHATTERTON DRIVE, SAN ANGELO, TEXAS

KENNETH E. COMMONS, 2458 DOUGLAS DRIVE, SAN ANGELO, TEXAS

KARL W. DISSLY, POST OFFICE BOX 9762, EL PASO, TEXAS

DILLARD W. HOWELL, 6413 CARDINAL LANE, INDIANAPOLIS,

ALLAN GILLIES, 8228 HOOVER LANE, INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA

WILLIAMS W. BURKE, JRo, 1847 AZTEC DRIVE, JACKSON,

IN 55199 DocId:32989781 Page 11

---

## Page 12

PAGE FIVE

JACKSONVILLE:

DONALD K. BROWN, 826 BROOKMONT AVENUE, EAST JACKSONVILLE,

FLORIDA

WILLIAM M. ALEXANDER, 4857 WATER OAX LANE, JACKSONVILLE,

FLORIDA

LOUISVILLE:

BERNARD C. BROWN, 2301 NEWMARKET DRIVE, N.E., LOUISVILLE,

KENTUCKY

LOS ANGELES:

WILLIAM GO SIMON, 2075 LOMBARDY ROAD, SAN MARINO,

CALIFORNIA

WESLEY G. GRAPP, 4240 BON HOMME ROAD, WOODLAND HILLS,

CALIFORNIA

ARNOLD G. LARSON, 4232 ABBINGION COURT, WESTLAKE VILLAGE,

CALIFORNIA

JOSEPH K. PONDER, 3719 CARRIAGE HOUSE COURT, ALEXANDRIA,

VIRGINIA. BUSINESS ADDRESS: 3030 SOUTH RED HILL AVENUE,

SANTA ANA, CALIFORNIA

MEMPHIS:

E. HUGO WINTERROWD, 1558 NORTH PARKWAY, MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE

MIAMI:

THOMAS MC ANDREWS, 324 NEAPOLITAN WAY, NAPLES, FLORIDA

FREDERICK F. FOX, 11450 W. BISCAYNE CANAL ROAD, MIAMI,

FLORIDA

WW 55199 DocId:32989781 Page 12

---

## Page 13

PAGE SIX

NEW YORK:

• JOSEPH LA SCHMIT, 656 HUNT LANE,- MANHASSET, NEW YORK

HENRY A. FITZGIBBON, 76 EASTON ROAD, BRONXVILLE, NEW YORK

OKLAHOMA CITY:

JAMES I. MORELAND, 140 FERN DRIVE, POTEAU, OKLAHOMA

LEE O. TEAGUE, 2501 NOW. 121ST STREET, OKLAHOMA CITY;

647-3721

751-0186

OKLAHOMA

OMAHA:

JOHN F. CALLAGHAN, IOWA LAW ENFORCEMENT ACADEMY,

CAMP DODGE, POST OFFICE BOX 13D, JOHNSION, IOWA

PHILADELPHIA:

RICHARD J. BAKER, 219 JEFFREY LANE, NEWTON SQUARE,

PENNSYLVANIA

JOHN F. MALONE, 25 GARFIELD AVENUE, CARBONDALE, PENNSYLVANIA

PHOENIX:

PALMER M. BAKEN,. JRo, 3832 EAST YUCCA STREET, PHOENIX,

'ARIZONA

ST. LOUIS:

THOMAS JO GEARTY, 6630 CLAYTON ROAD NR. 105, RICHMOND HEIGHTS,

MISSOURI

WESLEY I. WHALEY, 286 GREEN TRAILS DRIVE, CHESTERFIELD,

MISSOURI

NH 55199 DocId: 32989781 Page 13

---

## Page 14

PAGE SEVEN

SAN DIEGO:

FRANK L. PRICE, 2705 TOKALON STREET, SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA

SAN FRANCISCO:

CURTIS O. LYNUM, 644 EAST HILLSDALE BOULEVARD, SAN MATEO,

CALIFORNIA

HAROLD E. WELBORN, 13067 LA VISIA COURT, SARATOGA,

CALIFORNIA

SAVANNAM:

TROY COLEMAN, 36 CROMWELL ROAD, WILMINGION PARK, SAVANNAH,

GEORGIA

JOSEPH D. PURVIS, 721 DANCY AVENUE, SAVANNAH, GEORGIA

SEATTLE:

LELAND V. BOARDMAN, ROUTE 3, BOX 268, SEQUIM, WASHINGION

RICHARD D. AUERBACH, P.O. BOX 1768, SEATTLE, WASHINGION

JAMES E. MILNES, 4317 - 50TH AVENUE, N.E., SEATTLE,

WASHINGTON

PAUL. R. BIBLER, 15134 - 38TH AVENUE, N.I., SEATTLE,

WASHINGION

END

---

## Page 15

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

TELETYPE

KHA ENCIPHERED TELETYPE

F BI

Date:

9/12/75

PLAINTEXT

(Type in plaintext or code)

@32

NITEL

(Priority)

TO

FROM

DIRECTOR (62-116395) 1Sg

OKLAHOMA CITY (62-4107)

1P

SENSTUDY 75.

REBUNITEL SEPTEMBER 5 LAST AND MYNITEL SEPTEMBER 8 LAST.

FORMER EMPLOYEE JAMES T. MORELAND CONTACTED P.M., SEPTEMBER

11 LAST, AND ADVISED OF CONTENTS OF RENITEL. MORELAND INDICATED

HE HAS NOT DECIDED WHETHER OR NOT HE WILL COOPERATE WITH

SENATE INQUIRERS, BUT STATED HE WILL TELEPHONICALLY CALL THIS

OFFICE IF AND WHEN HE IS CONTACTED BY INVESTIGATORS. HE WAS

INTERESTED IN AND APPRECIATIVE OF INFORMATION AND GUIDANCE TO BE

AFFORDED BY ASSISTANT DIRECTOR WANNALL AND INDICATED HE WOULD TAKE

ADVANTAGE OF THIS SERVICE.

FROM INCIDENTAL CONVERSATION, IT IS OBVIOUS MORELAND IS NOT

FAVORABLY IMPRESSED BY SENSTUDY ALTHOUGH HE WILL COOPERATE TO THE

BEST OF HIS KNOWLEDGE. HE INDICATES HE HAS POOR MEMORY AND CAN

HARDLY REMEMBER ANY OF HIS OFFICIAL ACTS DURING THAT SPECIFIED

PERIOD OF TIME.

END

Searched ima

Serializes em....

Indete

KWW: mwr

en

(1)

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

ont in Charge Sent

Sent

HH 55199 DocId: 32989781 Page 15

Heel Per,

U.S. Government Printing Office: 1972 - 455-574

62-4107-5

---

## Page 16

Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

FBI

Date:

PLAINTEXT

(Type in plaintext or code)

9/8/75

005

Via

TELETYPE

TO

FROM

NITEL

(Priority)

BUREAU (62-116395) 6%m. n

MES

• OKLAHOMA CITY (62-4107) 2P

SENSTUDY 75.

REBUNITEL SEPTEMBER 5 LAST.

FORMER SAC LEE O. TEAGUE CONTACTED BY ME PERSONALLY

NOON, SEPTEMBER 6 LAST. HES REACTION WAS MIXED, INDICATING

INITIALLY THAT HE MIGHT REFUSE TO COOPERATE BECAUSE OF HIS

BELIEF COMMITTEE HARMING FBI AND THE COUNTRY. HE WAS ADVISED

OF AVAILABILITY OF BUREAU'S LEGAL COUNSEL AND OF THE OBLIGATIONS

RE CONFIDENTIALITY. HE STATED HE WOULD ADISE ME UPON CONTACT

BY THE SSC AND WOULD PROBABLY ALSO CALL LEGAL COUNSEL BEFORE

INTERVIEW. FORMER SAC TEAGUE EXTREMELY LOYAL FORMER BUREAU

EMPLOYEE WHO WOULD DO ANYTHING TO PRESERVE BUREAU'S INTEGRITY

AND IMAGE.

EFFORTS TO CONTACT FORMER SAC JAMES T. MORELAND IN POTEAU

TELEPHONICALLY WERE UNPRODUCTIVE. INQUIRIES BY SRA, POTEAU,

INDICATE MORELAND OUT OF POTEAU IN MOUNTAINS OF OKLAHOMA

FISHING AND HUNTING UNTIL THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11 NEXT. MESSAGE

END PAGE ONE

KWW :mwr

(1)

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent n Chrge

HH 55199 DocId: 32989781

Page 16

U.S. Government Printing Office: 1972 - 455-574

62-4107-6

---

## Page 17

= were

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

OC 62-4107

PAGE TWO

LEFT TO CONTACT SAC, OKLAHOMA CITY, UPON HIS RETURN. WHEN

COMPLETED, BUREAU WILL BE ADVISED.

END

Approved:

Sent

HH 55199

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32989781

Page 17

_M Per

U.S. Government Printing Off|ce: 1972 - 455-574

---

## Page 18

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

VIA ENCIPHERED TELETYPE

Transmit the following in

Via

TELETYPE

PLAINTEXT

FBI

Date:

11/12/75

(Type in plaintext or code)

NITEL

(Priority)

013

MES-

TO

DIRECTOR

62-116395

FROM OKLAHOMA CITY 62-4107

ATTN: ITND, W. O. CREGAR

1P

SENSTUDY 75

RE BUREAU TELEPHONE CALL NOVEMBER 11, 1975.

OREA. COUNTY JUDGE BYRON BE MC FALL, FORMER BUREAU AGENT,

IS ON A MOTOR TRIP TO TEXAS. CONTACT WITH HIS DAUGHTER

AT OKLA. CITY INDICATES JUDGE EXPECTED TO RETURN TO THE

CITY BY NOVEMBER 14, 1975. STOPS HAVE BEEN PLACED TO HAVE

JUDGE CONTACT OKLA. CITY OFFICE. BUREAU WILL BE ADVISED.

END

JHB: OW

(1)

Approved: -

WH 55199 DocId: 3298998jal/Ageat i3 Charge

Sent

Searched

Serialized

Indexed

Filed

Ramanannes

98/5 AM

62-4107-7

Per 2-7

#U.S. Government Printing Office: 1972 - 455-574

---

## Page 19

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

VIA ENCIPHERED TELETYPE

FBI

Date:

PLAINTEXT

Transmit the following in

TELETYPE

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

007

NITEL

(Priority)

11/14/75

TO

DIRECTOR

62-116395

FROM OKLAHOMA CITY 62-4107

ATTN: ITND, W. O. CREGAR

SENSTUDY 75

RE OKLA. CITY TEL TO BUREAU NOVEMBER 12, 1975.

OKLA. COUNTY JUDGE BYRON E. MC FALL, FORMER BUREAU

AGENT, CONTACTED OKLA. CITY OFFICE NOVEMBER 14, 1975. HE

WAS ADVISED POSSIBLE INTEREST BY SENATE GROUP AND HE STATED

HE WOULD TELEPHONE BUREAU'S OFFICE OF LEGAL COUNSEL.

END

JHB: OW

(1)

Approved:

HH 55199 DocId: 329 Spegial Agent i, Charge

Sent

Indexs!

Filed

62.110?-8

810RM

Per see?

#U.S.Government Printing Office: 1972 - 455-574

---

## Page 20

FD:36. (Reg, 5-22-64)

WA ENCIPIETES

Transmit the following in

Via

TELETYPE

FBI

Date: 12/15/75

PLAINTEXT

(Type in plaintext or code)

URGENT

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR 6 Hom

FROM:

OKLAHOMA CITY (62-4107)

ATTENTION: INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, WILLIAM O. CREGAR

HOUSTUDY

ON DECEMBER 12, 1975, SA GERALD E. PITTS RECEIVED A

MESSAGE TO CALL COLLECT, PHONE #202/225-9751, ON A.M. OF

DECEMBER 15, 1975, FOR TIM OLIPHANT (PHONETIC).

THIS CALL WAS RETURNED A.M., DECEMBER 15, 1975, AND

THE TELEPHONE NUMBER WAS FOR THE SELECI COMMITTEE ON

INTELLIGENCE, WASHINGTON, D. C. THE OPERATOR ADVISED THE

CALLING PARTY WAS OUT OF THE OFFICE AND HAD GONE TO FBI

HEADQUARTERS.

FRANK LINDSAY, CHIEF OF POLICE, ARDMORE, OKLAHOMA, PD,

ADVISED DECEMBER 15, 1975, THAT ON DECEMBER 12, 1975

HE RECEIVED A TELEPHONE CALL FROM TIM OLIPHANT, SELECT

COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE, WASHINGTON, D. C. OLIPHANT ADVISED

LINDSAY THAT THE COMMITTEE HAD RECEIVED INFORMATION THAT A

FORMER POLICE OFFICER, DARRELI EDWARD MC MILLAN, HAD STOPPED

searched

CE MOS

(1)

ind-ict

Flat

Approved:

НН 55199 DooId:32989781

Special Ageht in Charge

Page 20

Sent

Per

U.S. Government Printing-Office:

60-49245

455-529

---

## Page 21

PD:36, (Rey: 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in _

Via -

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

OC 62-4107 (PAGE TIO)

A WOMAN AT ARDMORE, OKLAHOMA, THE NIGHT BEFORE PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY WAS ASSASSINATED. THIS WOMAN WAS

HYSTERICAL AND TOLD MC MILIAN THAT SOMETHING BAD WAS GOING

TO HAPPEN TO THE PRESIDENT IN DALLAS, TEXAS, THE FOLLOWING

DAY.

MC MILLAN ALSO STATED THAT HE MADE HIS REPORT ON THIS

INCIDENT TO THE ARDMORE PD.

LINDSAY ADVISED THAT A SEARCH OF HIS RECORDS WERE

NEGATIVE ON SUCH A REPORT.

LINDSAY ALSO ADVISED THAT HE, LINDSAY, WAS CHIEF OF

DETECTIVES AT THE TIME THE ABOVE ALLEGED INCIDENT TOOK

PLACE, AND HE DOES NOT RECALL ANY SUCH INCIDENT. FURTHER,

OTHER MEMBERS OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT, WHO WERE WORKING

AT THAT TIME, DO NOT RECALL ANY SUCH INCIDENT.

LINDSAY STATED THAT MC MILIAN WAS EMPLOYED BY THE

ARDMORE PD JUNE 17, 1963, TO NOVEMBER 16, 1967, AT WHICH

TIME MC MILLAN WAS FORCED TO RESIGN FROM THE DEPARTMENT

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

IN 55199 DocId:32989781 Page 21

Sent

_M

Per

U.S. Government Printing Office: 1972 - 455-574

---

## Page 22

FD 36, (Reve 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

OC 62-4107 (PAGE THREE)

FOR UNETHICAL CONDUCT. MC MILLAN LATER WORKED AS CITY

MARSHAL, CYRIL, OKLAHOMA, WHERE HE WAS CHARGED WITH EMBEZZLE-

MENT AND DISMISSED. DISPOSITION OF CHARGES UNKNOWN. LINDSAY

FURNISHED THE ABOVE INFORMATION TO OLIPHANT.

MC MILLAN IS CURRENTLY RESIDING GAINESVILLE, TEXAS,

PHONE #817/665-6560.

ON DECEMBER 15, 1975, BOB SIRKIN, TV STATION, DALLAS,

TEXAS, PHONE #214/748-9631, TELEPHONICALLY CONTACTED SA

GERALD E. PITTS AND STATED MC MILLAN HAD TELEPHONICALLY

CONTACTED HIM AND FURNISHED SUBSTANTIALLY THE SAME INFORMATION

AS ABOVE EXCEPT MC MILIAN CLAIMED HE HAD FURNISHED A COPY

OF HIS REPORT TO SA GERALD E. PITTS OF THE ARDMORE RESIDENT

AGENCY. MR. SIRKIN WAS ADVISED THAT SA PITTS WAS NOT TRANS-

FERRED TO OKLAHOMA UNTIL 1965 AND THAT NO FURTHER COMMENT

WOULD BE MADE AND/OR FURTHER INQUIRIES WERE REFERRED TO THE

SAC, OKLAHOMA CITY.

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

NW 55199 DocId: 32989781 Paye 22

Sent

_ M

Per -

U.S.Government Printing Office: 1972 - 455-574

---

## Page 23

FD:36, (Rey 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

OC 62-4107 (PAGE FOUR)

OKLAHOMA CITY INDICES SHOW MC MILLAN WAS SUBJECT OF

A CIVIL RIGHTS INVESTIGATION ENTITLED "DARRELL E. MC MILLAN,

CITY MARSHAL, CYRIL, OKLAHOMA; GARY LYNN BOELEN - VICTIM,

CR, 0O: OKLAHOMA CITY, OC FILE 44-892, BUFILE 44-47405"

MC MILLAN HIT VICTIM WITH BLACKJACK WHEN VICTIM RESISTED

ARREST. AUSA, WDO, OKLAHOMA CITY, ADVISED CASE HAD NO

PROSECUTIVE MERIT AND CASE CLOSED.

NO RECORD OF INCIDENT MENTIONED BY MC MILLAN, OKLAHOMA

CITY RECORDS. AGENT ASSIGNED TO ARDMORE AT THAT TIME WAS

CARROLL I. SHIFFER, SRA, (DECEASED). SA RICHARD T. LAINE

MAY HAVE BEEN ASSIGNED ARDMORE AT THAT TIME BUT HIS PRESENT

WHEREABOUTS ARE UNKNOWN. LETTERHEAD MEMORANDUM

FOLLOWS,

END.

Approved: -

Special Agent in Charge

HH 55199 DooId:32989781

Page 23

-

Sent

_ M

Per -

U.S.Government Printing Office: 1972 - 455-574

---

## Page 24

NR050 WA PLAIN

11:32PM NITEL 12/10/75 GHS

TO ALL SACS IN

FROM DIRECTOR

DIRECTOR'S APPEARANCE BEFORE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES, DECEMBER 10, 1975

A COPY OF THE STATEMENT I DELIVERED BEFORE THE SENATE

SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES TODAY HAS BEEN

SENT ALL OFFICES. FOR YOUR INFORMATION, THERE FOLLOWS A

SYNOPSIZED ACCOUNT OF THE MAJOR AREAS OF THE COMMITTEE'S

QUESTIONS TO ME, TOGETHER WITH MY RESPONSES:

(1) REGARDING FBI INFORMANTS, QUESTIONS WERE ASKED

WHETHER COURT APPROVAL SHOULD BE REQUIRED FOR FBI USE OF

INFORMANTS IN INVESTIGATIONS OF ORGANIZATIONS (MY RESPONSE

WAS THAT THE CONTROLS WHICH EXIST TODAY OVER USE OF INFORMANTS

ARE SATISFACTORY>; HOW CAN FBI KEEP INFORMANTS OPERATING

WITHIN PROPER LIMITS SO THEY DO NOT INVADE RIGHTS OF OTHER

PERSONS MY RESPONSE WAS THAT RELIANCE MUST BE PLACED ON THE

INDIVIDUAL AGENTS HANDLING INFORMANIS AND THOSE SUPERVISING

TER NE MORE, TEA INDENT SO TRATE THE AN OA RE/

SEARCHED_

-INDEXED

SERIALIZED, LaSFILED IN

DEC 101975

6166-2743

FBI — OKLAHOMA, CITY

Gabi

HH. 55199 DocId: 32989781 Page 24

Kar

62-4107-10

---

## Page 25

PAGE TWO

PROSECUTED -- AS CAN ANY AGENT WHO COUNSELS AN INFORMANT TO

COMMIT VIOLATIONS); AND DID FORMER KLAN INFORMANT GARY ROWE

TESTIFY ACCURATELY WHEN HE TOLD THE COMMITTEE ON DECEMBER 2

• THAT HE INFORMED FBI OF PLANNED ACTS OF VIOLENCE BUT FBI

DID NOT ACT TO PREVENT THEM MY RESPONSE WAS THAT ROWE'S

TESTIMONY WAS NOT ACCURATE).

(2) IN RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS REGARDING IMPROPER

CONDUCI BY FBI EMPLOYEES, I STATED THAT ALLEGED VIOLATIONS OF

LAW BY FBI PERSONNEL SHOULD BE INVESTIGATED BY THE FBI OR

OTHER APPROPRIATE AGENCY; THAT THE INSPECTION DIVISION HAS

CONDUCTED INQUIRIES REGARDING ALLEGATIONS OF MISCONDUCI;

THAT AN OFFICE OF PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBILITY HAS JUST

BEEN ESTABLISHED IN THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT, AND WE WILL ADVISE

THAT OFFICE OF OUR MAJOR INVESTIGATIONS OF DEPARTMENTAL PERSONNEL,

INCLUDING FBI EMPLOYEES, FOR ALLEGED VIOLATIONS OF LAW, REGULATIONS,

OR STANDARDS OF CONDUCI; THAT I WOULD RESERVE COMMENT

REGARDING POSSIBLE CREATION OF A NATIONAL INSPECTOR GENERAL

TO CONSIDER MATTERS OF MISCÓNDUCT BY EMPLOYEES OF ANY FEDERAL

AGENCY.

NH 55199 DocId:32989781 Page 25

---

## Page 26

PAGE THREE

(3) IN RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS CONCERNING HARASSMENT OF

• MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., I STATED THAT THE PERSONS WHO ISSUED

THE ORDERS WHICH RESULTED IN SUCH HARASSMENT SHOULD FACE THE

RESPONSIBILITY FOR IT, RATHER THAN THOSE UNDER THEM WHO CARRIED

OUT SUCH ORDERS IN GOOD FAITH; THAT THE FBI STILL HAS RECORDINGS

RESULTING FROM ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCES OF KING; THAT WE RETAIN

RECORDINGS FOR TEN YEARS BUT WE ALSO HAVE AGREED TO A REQUEST

FROM THE SENATE NOT TO DESTROY INFORMATION IN OUR FILES WHILE

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRIES ARE BEING CONDUCTED; THAT I HAVE NOT

REVIEWED THE KING TAPES; THAT IF THE COMMITTEE REQUESTED TO

REVIEW THE KING TAPES, THE REQUEST WOULD BE REFERRED TO THE

ATTORNEY GENERAL.

(4) IN RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS REGARDING WHETHER IT WOULD

BE ADVANTAGEOUS TO SEPARATE THE FBI CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIVE

RESPONSIBILITIES AND OUR INTELLIGENCE FUNCTIONS, I STATED

THAT WE HAVE FOUND THE TWO AREAS TO BE COMPATIBLE, AND I

FEEL THE FBI IS DOING A SPLENDID JOB IN BOTH AREAS.

(5) IN RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE ADEQUACY

OF CONTROLS ON REQUESTS FROM THE WHITE HOUSE AND FROM OTHER

GOVERNMENT AGENCIES FOR FBI INVESTIGATIONS OR FOR INFORMATION

HH 55199 DocId:32990781 Pade 76

---

## Page 27

PAGE FOUR

FROM OUR FILES, I STATED THAT WHEN SUCH REQUESTS ARE MADE

ORALLY, THEY SHOULD BE CONFIRMED IN WRITING; THAT WE WOULD

WELCOME ANY LEGISLATIVE GUIDELINES THE CONGRESS FEELS WOULD

PROTECT THE FBI FROM THE POSSIBILITY OF PARTISAN MISUSE.

A FULL TRANSCRIPT OF THE QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS WILL BE

FURNISHED TO EACH OFFICE AS SOON AS IT IS AVAILABLE.

ALL LEGATS ADVISED SEPARATELY.

END

HH 55199 DocId: 32989781

Page 27

---

