# docid-32578775

## Page 1

OPTIONAL FORM-NO. TO

UNITED+ STATES

Memoran

Tolson -

'SECRET"

Mohr

Persons

Belmont

Callahan

DeLoach

Malone

McGuire

TO

:Mr. L'Allier

DATE: November 22, 1960

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

FROM : S. J. Papich

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR,.

Ingram-

Gandy

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

SUBJECT:

LOVINTENTO DEMOCRATICO CHRISTTANO

IN THIS DOCUMENTAS SANITIZE

GMB 8/19198

Sai

(CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC MOVEMENT)

(MDC )

RA - CUBA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINET

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHER.

Reference is made to letter dated November 2, 1960,

from Miami captioned as above.

ämmong) On November 17, 1060, the Liaison Agent contacted lark

Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), and inquired if CIA

was supporting the captioned organization or the reported training

activities allegedly

"Frente Revolucionario Democratico (FRD), an organization receiving

SecIA support.

The Liaison Agent further

commented that individuals

#mentioned in connection with the MDC activities such as General

Martin Elena and Doctor Jose Ignacio Rasco have been key figures in

the then operations. (Stic

¿being supported by CIA but the

On November 21, 1960, Simmons

advised that MDC is not

Agency will have occasion to contact

Bectassity.

Individual members and will use such individuals in tRI activity

if it is believed to be worthwhile. Simmons Stated that CIA definitely

sis not involved in the reported training activity taking place in

Florida.

Checks with FRD leaders failed to disclose any information

sto substantiate such a report.

In this connection Rasco advised a

CIA representative that he knew nothing about such training openins

Simmons advised that cIA has no objection to any investiga.

tion which might be conducted by the Bureau. (ST)

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the attention

of the Nationalities Intelligence section.

780 - %

$5P: bastas

REG- 23

97-4110-23

1

, - Mr. Donahoe

1

1

Mr.

Nasca

• DEC 2 1960

Liaison

1

- Mr. Papich

Let to A At

Yea gline

50DEC7 1980951

DINARSA

2- JK

1-29-40

TIDS/ pu SECRET

MAT LAIN

SEE REVERSE

SIDE FOR

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION:

DocId:32578775

Page 1

---

