# docid-32177714

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10191-10096

RECORD SERIES: NO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 97-74-27

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LUNDOUIST. FRANCIS I.

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/14/1961

PAGES: 92

SUBJECT: FPCC, REPORT, FIRST NATIONAL CONFERENCE

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/24/1997

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32177714

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SIMILAL

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

NEW YORK

NEW YORK

7/14/61

5/212-7/10/61

TITLE OF CASE

REPORT MADE BY

FRANCIS I. LUNDQUIST

THE FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA

CHARACTER OF CASE

COMMITTEE OF THE INSTITUTE

AMERICAN EAST ON EA

RA - CUBA

1-54-94

IS

AMERICAN RELATIONS, INC.

IS

CUBA

-

C

91.74*

IS

-

SWP

REFERENCE

DECLASSIFIED BY 5468 SLO/GCL

ON 019/47...

IO•0001070199013

NY report of SA JOHN FRANCOS CURRAN, 5/5/61 and

NY airtel to Bureau, 7/7/61.

ALL INFORMATION CONTATHED

HEDF

LASSIFIED

FIC SHONA

ADMINISTRATIVE

CircliKISE

Attached 1s a report concerning the FPCC First

National Conference, which reflects the present and past

affillation of various FPCC delegates with the SWP and CP.

In view of the influence of the sw in this organization,

the character is now being set forth to Include IS - SWP.

Due to the preparations relative to coverage of the

FPCC National Conference In NYC, as well as the handling of

Information in connection therewith, NY has been delayed in

the preparation of the regular 60 day report on activities

of the natIonal FPCC. Preparation of the regular report will

be initiated and a report submitted as expeditiously as possible.

IPPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

'OPIES MADE:

9 - Bureau (97-4196) (RM)

1 - G-2, NYC (RM)

97

I - ONI, NYC (RM)

24

27

SEARCHED

1 - OSI,

NYC (RM)

SERIALIZED.

2

- Baltimore (105-4441) (RM)

JUL 1 7 1961

2

- Boston (105-8539) (RM)

1

- Buflalo (Info (RM)

FEN - NEW ORLEANS

1 - New York (97-1792)

COPIES CONTINUED

retry

Disseminutton Record of Attached Report

Notations

Disposs

-gency

CLASSIFIED AAL

jequest Recd.

late Fwd.

11210

TO GENTAINED

EXTENDED MY SA-5 PJ6/RE 4/2//80

iow Fwd.

FCIT, L

ne spomr

DATE C

1040

DECEASIN

114181

TYPED BY

Labw

03100/152

JFIC

DocId: 32177714

Page 2

---

## Page 3

is it

NY 97-1792

Independent Socialist Youth

and Independent Socialist Club

Philadelphia Young Socialist

Alliance

Wisconsin Socialist Club

Chicago Committee Io Defend

The Bill of Rights

Young Socialist Alliance

Student Council, FPCC

Former DE 698-S

Former PSI WILLIAM DAVIS)

PH 539-5

Former PSI (LEROY MC RAE)

PH 286-S

MI 151-CS

CG 5326-S.

CG 6369-5*

NY 711-S

NY 2440-5*

NY 2434-5*

NY 711-S

u)

LEADS

INFORMATION

Information copies of this report are being

designated for the following offices in view of past

interest these offices have had in activities of the FPCC

within their respective divisions:

Buffalo

Charlotte

Cincinnati

Indianapolis

Jacksonville

Little Rock

Milwaukee

New Orleans

Pittsburgh

Portland

St. Louis

San

Juan

Miami

G

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32177714

Page 3

---

