AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
* PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.4
Docld:32294153 Page 1

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

5/14/201

Agency Information

FBI
124-10212-10429

HQ

92-6054-541

Document Information

FBI
SAC, SD
DIRECTOR, FBI

12/06/1963
10

LCN, SD, CA, LEADERSHIP, MEMBERSHIP, CRIMINAL ACT,
BUSS ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

06/29/1998

INDEFINITE



e. : calm PO NO. 10g PR fee
UNITED STATES G¢ =RNMENT . fae ’ !
= — ae :

a \ _
~ Memorandum me

ae

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: 192 /6, 63 a

Yo FROM Zi) SAC, SAN DIEGO (92-229) (P)

: Or vf i
va SUBJECT: @, COSA NOSTRA / ie / i

2) AR = CONSPIRACY ene
00: New York (R2t)

val ReBuairtel to New York 11/4/63. .

a Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are the original
and three copies of a letterhead memorandum in captioned case
in lieu of report. Two copies are enclosed for the Los Angeles
Office and two copies are enclosed for the New York Office.

The source identifying membership of JOSEPHAEIMANDRI,
FRANK BOMPENSIERO and JASPERE J. METRANGA, aka., as members of
the La Cosa Nostra is LA 4448-C-TE and information from this
source should not be included in the details of any rcport, per
information from the Los Angeles Office. - ;
\

The source who identified MARCO\ZIMANDRI as a member |
is JOSEPH VALACHI, who on 10/10/63 advised he had no additional i
information concerning MARCO LIMANDRI but thought LIMANDRI
might have been involved in the sale of stolen OPA stamps during ;
World War II and subsequently went from New York to Californiag>

For information of the Bureau, FRANK BOMPENSIERO and
JOSEPH JOHN LIMANDRI are presently being contacted in an attempt {
to develop them as informants under the Top Echelon Informant |
Program. |

By letter.dated 11/21/63 the Bureau advised that Los
‘ Angeles informant had advised that the Caporegima of the San
Ss Diego group is an individual by the name of ARNATO (phonetic) . :

On 11/26/63 PCI GLORIA LEE, who is a close associate
of FRANK BOMPENSIERO and other Italians in San Diego, advised

7 pe
REC. : pees
@®- Bureau (Enes. 4) (AM - Re) « 2 q ft. yf 5H
2 - New York (92-2300(Encs. 2)(AM - REG) 7

2- Los Angel 92~1112)(Encs. 2)(AM - REI a

2 = San Die; a wz DEC 11 1963

: oe oO se eee wh oe
lee ann,

~ DEC 3t

a Page 2
