# docid_32305574

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10288-10204

RECORD SERIES: "HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3267-682

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

07/16/1965

2

JRO, DESERT INN HOTEL, ASSOC, PROPOSED MARRIAGE,

B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45945

DocId: 32305574

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Folio (Rov. 10-29-63)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

Yor

RE :

FBI

Date:

7/16/65

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

SAC,

LOS ANGELES (92-113C)(P)

JOHN ROSELLI, aka

The Las Vegas Office advised that ROSELLI checked

into the Desert Inn Hotel on 7/9/65 and on that/ date made a

telephone call to Los Angeles telephone 275-2981 and talked

to a HELEN (LNU) for 62 minutes. HELEN may be HELEN GRECO,

widow of musician

furnished information on 7/15/65 that ROSELLI no longer is

keeping company with NANCY CZAR and has proposed marriage to

HELEN GRECO who he (ROSELLI) knew before

she married JONES.

ROGEL also learned that NANCY CZAR is quite displeased with

ROSELLI at the

present time and had made the statement that he

is a

"bag man" for interests in Las Vegas and that she made

many trips with ROSELLI. Consideration is being given to an

interview of CZAR in the near future.

on 7/13/65 information was received from the LAPD

that ROSELLI and MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN arrived in Los Angeles

from Las Vegas on WAL at about 11:45 AM on 7/13/65 and left

the airport in a Lincoln automobile bearing California

license RBE 885.

Records of DMV, Los Angeles, reflect that

California license RBE 885 is registered to Tru-Bor Manu-

facturing Company, 3520 Wesley Street, Culver City, California.

No information is

known at this time concerning this company.

On 7/16/65

advised that ROSELLI

1s currently residing at his apartment; that ROSElI's girl

Bureau

- Las Vegas (92-467) (Info)

2 - LOS

Angeles

HFD: jcm

(6)

REC 8

92-306715g18

HO JUL 19 1965

OTHER 4

Approved: 2 698

- Sent

Special Agent in Charge

iceded

M

Per

HH 45945 DocId:32305574 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 92-113C

friend, NANCY CZAR, moved from ROSELLI's apartment sometime

during

the latter part of June, 1905,

and no longer lives

there.

Informant

has no knowledge that any other woman is

living at ROSELLI's apartment at the present time.

On the afternoon of 7/16/65 information was

received from the LAPD that ROSELLI left Los Angeles for

Las Vegas at about 3:00 PM on this date via Western Airlines.

ROSELLI was alone.

LA 4145-C advised on 7/15/65 that ROSELLI had

recently contacted AL PARVIN who owns a considerable interest

in the Dohrman Hotel Supply Company for the purpose of convincing

PARVIN to have the Dorman company purchase more refrigeration

equipment from Ajax West Coast Corp.

FRANZ BRETTLING, a close

riend of ROSELLI, is president of Ajax and ROSELLl purchases

refrigeration eauipment from the company lor resale.

According

to informant, BRETTLING met with PARVIN on 7/13/65 to discuss

this matter.

PARVIN was willing to buy more equipment from

Ajax but was not certain that he had

sufficient control in the

company to persuade the buyers to use Ajax equipment exclusively

because in many instances other makes of equipment would be

specified.

However, PARVIN and BREITLING will continue to

work on this matter.

Informant said that when some agreement

is reached between them, ROSELLI will receive a three per cent

commission of the gross

sales made by Ajax to the Dohrman

Company.

Informant estimated that if Ajax got all of Dohrman's

refrigeration equipment business the total yearly sales would

be about $500,000.

2

NW 45945

DocId:32305574

Page 3

---

