# docid-32246621

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

10/1/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10075-10179

RECORD SERIES :

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 010145

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

HSCA

MOFITT, GEORGE

DATE: 06/15/1978

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

HUFF, LARRY

OSWALD, LEE, PRE-RUSSIAN PERIOD, MILITARY SERVICE

MOFFITT, GEORGE

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Open in Full

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/19/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Box 187.

v9.1

NW 55923

DocId: 32246621

Page 1

---

## Page 2

KENNEDY

010145

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

1. Identifying Information:

Name_

George Moffit

Address 2530 South Lowell St.

CIty/State - Santa Ana, Calif.

Date of Birth 8/21/23

Social Security

JFK Act 6 (3)

2. Physical Description:

Height

Weight

Ethnic Group

Date

Place

June 15, 1978

Residence

Telephone

M or S

Spouse

Children

Color Eyes

Hair

Special Characteristics

3.

4.

Personal History:

a.

Present Employment:

Address

Telephone_

b. Criminal Record

1. Arrests

2. Convictions

Additional Personal Information:

a.

Relative (s): Name

Address

Media Technician

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

Investigator

Date

NW 55923 DocId: 32246621 Page 2

undr

21/28

Form #4-B

---

## Page 3

KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Name

George Moffit

Address Office of the Legal Counsel Place

El Toro Marine Base

Santa Ana, California

92707

Interview:

Date June 15, 1978 Time

George Moffit was interviewed in connection with

his association with a fellow Marine, Larry Huff.

George Moffit served in the Marines off and on

for twenty years and retired Dec. 31, 1968, with the rank

of Master Gunnery Sergeant, concluding his work as a

navigator. Mr. Moffit was asked about his activities

in November and December 1963, and January, 1964. Mr. Moffit

said he did not believe he participated in a flight to

Dallas, Texas

during that time. He said it was possible.

that he went to NAS, Dallas. He said his rank during that

time was as a navigator, E-9. He said he was not connected

with CiI.D. during that time or at any time during his

service in the Marine Corp.

Mr. Moffit said that Lt.. General Carson Roberts was

the Commanding General of the Fleet Marine Force, and operated

out of Camp Smith. Mr. Moffit. said that he did have

inde

Interviewer Signature

Typed Signature

Donald A. Purdy

Date transcribed

NN 55923

DocId: 32246621 Page 3

July 12, 1978

BY: Cs Form #4-A

---

## Page 4

Interview: George Moffit

2

experience with C-54s and said that there was at least

one C-54 and possibly two, detailed to General Roberts.

Mr. Moffit turned. to the Marine Corp attorney

when asked whether or not he often participated in the

transporting of C.I.D. personnel. He answered that he

did and noted that he had a top secret clearance, saying

he was the senior navigator on the West Coast. He said

it was not unusual for him to haul C.I.D. personnel and •

classified material.

Moffit said he didn't know if he went

or from Dallas on between November 22, 1963 and January:

:1964 but said we could check the master log for that

information. Moffit recalls participating in the 134/Areal

Refueling Program during that time.

recalled

Mr. Moffit,that on November 22, 1963 Larry Huff was

with him having recently flown in from Hawaii. Moffit said

he wasn't sure where Huff was:

going next. He believes he

saw Huff the next day and believes

he left within a few days.

He's not sure when he saw Huff again.

'Moffit said he was sure that Huff never mentioned

participating in a flight to Japan in connection with a

post assassination investigation of Lee Harvey Oswald. He

said he had no knowledge of anyone participating in such a

mission.

He said that he unequivocally has no knowledge of

any Marine Corp investigation following the assassination

NW 55923

DocId: 32246621 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Interview: George Moffit

3

including any that may have

gone to Dallas. He said he

is certain he never told Larry Huff that he either

participated in the planning of or in the execution of a

trip to Dallas in connection with such investigation.

Moffit said he was not sure who Chief Warrant Officer

Morgan was, but said it was likely that he knew him. Moffit

believes he knew a Tom Allen but doesn't know where he is

now and isn't sure when he last saw him, noting that he

(Moffit) missed the most recent reunion of the retired

Marine Corp personnel.

Moffit said he knew a Major Rice but isn't sure it

was one who was connected

with C.I.D.

Moffit said he knew a Ralph Fall, a radio operator,

but said he wasn't sure where of when he last saw him.

Moffit knew a Captain Kruse but isn't sure where.

He said he believed he flew with him many years ago.

Moffit said it would be unusual for a navigator to

read a classified report that was being transported on his

flight. He noted that he received his top security clearance

in approximately 1961.

Moffit said that in connection with his travels with

the Marines

he had a personal passport and a Marine

corp passport. However, he said neither of the passports were

"dummied up."

He said the Military passport was

necessary

if the country required diplomatic clearance.

NN 55923 DooId: 32246621 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Interview: George Moffit

Moffit said that there were non. classified units

at Iwakuni. He specifically remembered three fighter.

squadrons.

Moffit said he was aware of the existence of U-2s

at Atsugi, Japan. He said he was not aware of the frequency

of the flights.

He also said that he believed

were at Atsugi in 1958 or 1959.

Moffit said he maintained a personal log which

should correspond exactly to the master log of the base.

He said that the log lists flight designators and woula

indicate the nature of key information such as fueling.

He said the system of log keeping was standard throughout

the Navy.

He said it would also list the names of flight

crew members.

Moffit said he did not know Lee Oswald

during 1958

or 1959 when Oswald was stationed at El Toro or anytime

before or since.

Moffit noted that he lived at his home

during that time period and not on the base. He said he

moved from one home to another in February of 1959.

Moffit does not recall being asked any questions

about Oswald or the El Toro Marine Base by any official

investigators following the

assassination. He also said

that he does not recall any changes made in codes that

from

resulted, defectionsof present or former military personnel

to the Soviet Union or any other country. Moffit also said

N 55923

DocId: 32246621 Page 6

---

## Page 7

"is,

Interview: George Moffit

5

that he didn't know anyone who knew Lee Oswald to his

knowledge.

Moffit said his mailing address is

2530 South

Lowell St., Santa Ana, California 92707.

Moffit said he had no reason to question Larry Huff's

credibility, saying they were

good friends.

He said he

took care of his home when he was overseas. A Marine Corp

attorney repeated my question concerning whether or not

Moffit had any reason to question Huff's credibility and

Moffit again answered that he did not. A few minutes later

Moffit indicated in a roundabout way that he "may" know

of Huff having mental problems in the past and that this

might be a possible reason for him questioning his credibility.

He then stated more strongly that he knew that Huff had

mental problems and believed his wife had similar problems.

Mr. Moffit said he was born August 21, 1923 in

Los Angeles, California and that he is currently working

as a media technician. He said his military number was

817681 and his social security number is

JEK Act 6 (3)

Mr. Moffit said his first contact in this regard

was from

Mr. Day from the Assassination Committee.

A NW 55923

DocId: 32246621 Page 7

---

