JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 5/28/201

Agency Information

Released under the John

AGENCY: FBI . Kennedy
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10277-10027 Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992
RECORD SERIES: HQ (44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#:NU 55208 Date:
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2918-18 p4-10-2016
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: — SAC, PG
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
a DATE: 03/21/1958
PAGES: 8
SUBJECTS :
GM, SMO, ASSOC, BUSS, SLOT MACHINES, SHIPMENT,
CUBA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 01/29/1999
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS
COMMENTS : INC LHM, MEMO

vol

NW 45854 DocId:32300692 Page 1


PG. 92=228.: : :
92-236 “CONES TAL

Miami will also alert major airlines serving Cuba regarding the.
likelihood: of SAM MANNARINO traveling to Cuba as requested in
Pittsburgh airtel dated 3/20/58.

Grovestigation Requested in cuba QI OF fen

I. WIt~is requested that sources in Havana and camaguey » <cubayy be
Bi ea in. an effort to confirm the allegation that _NORMAN
| FROTHMAN in cooperation with the MANNARINO brothers, have sTot—
! Aa achines operating in the interior of Cuba, and if so, the extent
' of their operation. . Sources should also be contacted for any
information they may have that. would confirm SAM MANNARINO'S.
statement about investing in the pineapple business.

It is also requested that sources familiar with the Island of
Pines be. contacted to determine if possible, whether GABRIEL
MANNARINO has been living aboard a houseboat in that area
since his disappearance from New Kensington, Pa., during 12/57.

_Aprangements: should be made with proper officials in Havana

to receive notification of SAM MANNARINO's arrival in Cuba since
as indicated in. the enclosed memorandum, he has déclared his
intention to return to Cuba for an extended period in the very
near future. . Sources in Havana should be alerted concerning
the possibility of SAM MANNARINO's arrival in order that his
‘activities can’ be followed closely. 7%

, The gource mentioned in paragraph 1 of attached letterhead
memorandum is PG 545-C contacted by SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE
on. 3/7/58. ‘ -

The agent mentioned in paragraph 3 is SA JOHN S. PORTELLA,

The source mentioned ‘in. paragraph 4 is.SA JOHN. SCHWARTZ,
Intelligence. Division, Internal Revenue Service, Pittsburgh,
contacted by SA BOUCE. :

SAS mentioned ‘in paragraph 5 are SAS PORTELLA and GENE H.
STUDEBAKER : i

The source mentioned in paragraphs 7 and 8 is MIKE ZERVOS, PCI,
Pittsburgh Office, contacted by SA DOUCE.

owed OY IE ex TASK FORCE

=2-

1
| TOTAL DENIAL “ a
plea ilies easapssosnnananganovaa On

}

t

HW 45854 DocId:32300692 Page 2
