# docid-32626311

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER

: 176-10036-10207

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :

FROM :

TO :

DATE :

PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

TITLE : John F. Kennedy document Control Record

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 382: Disarmament, 7/63-10/63, item 4C.

Box 1

HH 49061

DocId: 32626311

Page

1

---

## Page 2

.. 1

EYEN#T All: 81-383-311-41006

TOP

SECRET

StINSITIVE

40

Treaty

Limiting the Production of Strategic Delivery Vehicles, Anti-missile

Missile Systems and Fissionable Materials

The Governments of France, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,

the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the

United States of America, hereinafter referred to as the "Original

Wishing to take the first step toward achieving in the speediest.

possible manner an agreement on general and complete disarmament under

strict international control in accordance with the objectives of the

Desiring to put an end to the armaments race,

Have agreed as follows:

Article I

1. Each of the Parties to this Ireaty undertakes to

halt the production at any place under its jurisdiction or control

of:

a Strategic delivery vehicles enumerated in an annex to

this Treaty;

b. Anti-missile missile systems; and

c. Fissionable materials for use in nuclear weapons.

2. In order to replace missiles lost through accident or ex-

subject to the following restrictions:

a. The number of missiles to be produced during any

calendar year shall not exceed the number specified for each

type in an annex to this Ireaty.

previous month.

shall be furnished to any other Original Party upon request.

Article II

I. The provisions of Article I apply only to the final

• assembly of strategic delivery vehicles. Manufacture of parts

STOP. SECRET

SENSITIVE

HH 49061

DocId: 32626311

Page 2

---

## Page 3

43

SENSITIVE

for maintenance of existing strategic delivery vehicles shall

be permitted and old parts of such vehicles may be replaced by

new ones of the same type and character. Adequate evidence of such

loss or expenditure shall be furnished to any other original party

upon request.

2. The provisions of Article I apply only to fissionable

materials for use in nuclear weapons. Production of such

materials for power, propulsion and other peaceful uses shall

• Article III

To ensure adequate verification of compliance with the provisions

of this Ireaty, the Parties accept the arrangements set forth in the

annex on verification.

Article IV

I. This Ireaty shall be subject to ratification by the

Original Parties, and shall come into force six months after

the date of exchange of ratifications.

2. This Ireaty shall be registered by the Original Parties

vith the secretariat of the United Nations, pursuant to Articl

02 of the Charter of the United Nations

3. Upon its registration, the Ireaty shall be open for

accession to all States. Instruments of accession shall be

deposited with the Secretariat of the United Nations, which

shall promptly inform the Original Parties and all States having

acceded to this Ireaty of the date of each accession. The

Treaty shall enter into force for each acceding State six months

after the date of its accession.

Article V

1. This Ireaty shall be of unlimited duration.

2. Each Party shall have the right to withdraw from this

Treaty If It decides that extraordinary events, related to the

subject matter of this Treaty, have jeopardized the supreme

interests of its country. It shall give notice of such with-

drawal to all other Parties to this Ireaty three months in

advance.

Article VI

1. The Original Parties shall consult from time to time

with respect to the implementation of this Ireaty.

2. In particular, they shall consult if other militarily

2

SCORET

SENSITIVE

IN 49061 DocId: 32626311 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET

SENSITIVE

significant states do not accede to this Ireaty within two

years after its coming into force or 1f a militarily

significant state gives notice of withdrawal from this Treaty.

Article VII

This Ireaty, of which the Inglish, French and Russien tests are

equally authentic, shall be deposited in the archives of the Original

Parties and in the archives of the United Nations. Duly certified

copies of this Ireaty shall be transmitted to all States by the

Secretariat of the United Nations.

In witness whereof, the undersigned, duly authorized, have

signed this Treaty.

Done in five: copies at

one thousand

nine hundred and sixty

_ the - dev of

LBS: esm/13 September 1963

POSAP SECRET

3.

SENSITIVE

HH 49061

DocId: 32626311

Page

---

## Page 5

SEGRET

SENSITIV

VERIFICATION ANNEX

Part I. Verification Procedure for the Original Parties

Article I

1. Three months before the coming into force of this Ireaty,

each of the Original Parties shall submit to the other Original Parties

a declaration listing all facilities located at any place under its

jurisdiction or control which are engaged in the production of:

a.

strategic delivery vehicles;

b. anti-missile missile systems; or

c. fissionable materials for use in weapons.

2. Each of the Original Parties shall also include in the

declaration a list of all facilities located at any place under its

jurisdiction or control which, whether or not currently engaged in the

production of such vehicles, systems or materials, have been engaged

therein at any time during the five years preceding the coming inte

force of this Treaty.

3. The declaration shall contain a general description of each

facility listed, and shall give its exact location.

Article II

1. For purposes of verification, France, the United Kingdom of

Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States shall be

considered as one "Verifying Party"

, and the Union of Soviet Socialis

Republics shall be considered as the other "Verifying Party.'

2. Upon the coming into force of this Treaty, each of the two

Verifying Parties shall be entitled to verify the implementation of this

Treaty by the other Party.

Article III

1. Inspectors of one Verifying Party shall be entitled to verify

on a continuous basis whether a declared facility of the other Party

which is no longer producing any of the items specified in Article I has

not resumed their production. Where the danger of such resumption is small,

periodic inspection may, at the discretion of the inspections, be

substituted for continuous one.

2. In facilities engaged in the production of missiles to the extent

authorized by this Treaty, the inspectors shall be entitled to verify on

a continuous basis that the production does not exceed the authorized limits.

SECHET

4.

SENSITIVE

42

WH 49061 DocId:32626311 Page 5

---

## Page 6

4C

*

SoiL

SENSITIVE

For this purpose, they shall be entitled to watch the assembly lines

for missiles, as a whole, for major subassemblies and for rocket motors.

3. In lacilities engaged in the production of fissionable materials

for power, propulsion and other peaceful uses, the inspectors shall be

entitled to verify on a continuous basis that no materials are being

diverted for use in weapons. Where the productive capacity of a

facility is small, periodic inspection may, at the discretion of the

inspectors, be substituted for continuous one.

Article IV

1. In each calendar year, each of the two Verifying Parties shall

a production or shen to hated or hated y

2. The inspected Party shall have the option in each case either

to allow the Verifying Party to inspect the inside of the main buildings

of the facility, or to permit the establishment of check points around

the facility in order to inspect for a period not exceeding twelve months

all the shipments to and from the facility. If the facillty is suspected

or producing fissionable materials and the inspection is limited to the

outside of the facility, the inspectors shall be permitted to sample

from time to time the soil around the main buildings or the facility,

the smoke from its smoke stacks and the water flowing from it.

Article V

The Parties to this Ireaty shall adopt such internal

legislation and administrative measures as may be necessary to enable

the inspectoys to perform their duties in an effective manner.

2. In conducting inspections, the inspectors shall have due

regard for all rights of personal privacy and private property, taking

into consideration the laws and customs of the inspected Party to the

fullest extent consistent with their duties.

* The clause is framed in this manner because this that any greater

rights would infringe the property rights of U.S. citizens and corp-

orations, having no business with the U.S. government. We can grant

access to government facilities and facilities utilized under government

contract but not private facilities. (Reference, written legal opinion

of OSD Counsel)

a 5.

Scuiet

SENSITIVE

HH 49061

DocId: 32626311 Page 6

---

