# docid-32324516

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90029-10008

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 100-408525-NR

Released under the John

hasassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45907 Date:

04-11-2018

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

ARMY

USA

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/09/1953

5

THOMAS R. PEASNER

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

, RESTRICTIONS:

3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OFUSA

COMMENTS:

SUMMARY;

v9.1

HH 45907

6

DooId: 32324516

Page

---

## Page 2

ONFO

NTIAL

1 B JAN 19542€

Security

armation

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION

9 Nnvember 1953

Hearquarters Second Army, Fort George G. Mende, Md. Dossier C 8052176

Cpl

10. 01-98

The following Counter intelligence Information (Phise

obtained from files available to this office.

15/53

5668540/KSR

age 22.

Caucasian, Box 136,

Kimberly,

west virginia, was captured by

Chinese Conmunist. Enrces (CCF)

On 23 April 1951, in the Central Sector of Inrea, approximately 10

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

miles north of the 38th parallel. SUBJECT serving as an Assistant Squad

Leader in "I" Company, 19th Regiment, 24th Infantry Division. His

'organization had been overrm by CCF at the time of his capturel

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

was repatriated to UN control on 6 Sentember 1953.

_BY

•95

was imprisoned at Camp #1 until 4 August 1953, at which time

DATE 5-7-

repatriation. Following an alleged exposure of subversive activities

directed against the COFinlane for nor ranatriato Poll

were turner

over in uN control i-

Shortly after arrivel at Camp #1,

began to actively participate

in conmunist discussions sponsored by the cor camp nfficials. In March

1952 he vas appointed a. Squad Lender by the Chinese and held this position

until May 1952. In this capacity he presented questions for discussion in

reported attitudes of PsW to the Chinese.

In April 1952

was selected by the Chinese for membership in

the Compeny Club, and became Chairman of the Research Section of the Club's

Daily. Life Committoe. He held this position until August 1953.

¿HALLUR DELIVERY

-4 201

The Company Club wes a Chinese sponscred organization and controlled

them. It directed and planned the daily activities of the PsW. It had

as it's officers only those regarded by the Chinese as dependable. The

Research Department made sturies of reference matarial supplied by the

MEsseST DATED

Chinese and submitted it's results to study groups and writers of pro

communist articles.

15•691172801

was an alternate delogate to the Camp #1 Camps Club and in the

Latter part

absence of Pfc

of 1952 and early 1953 acted as Chairmen of that group, in the

the Chairman.

100-408525

AC of :5,

G-2 D/A

5

AFFE

USARCARIB

CONUS Armios,

TO TACA

USARPAC -

INDEXED

• 5 MDW

SEE

5 MAR 1

1558

CONFI

NTIA

Security

mation

HH

45907

DocId

:32324516

Page 2

---

## Page 3

ONE TOD EN

NTLAL

Security Intonation

Act

6(3)

9 November 1953

On 23 June 1953

among other PSW, signed a letter mailed to

Mrs. Florence Gowgill, 6159 Archer Avenue, Argo, Illinois. This letter

expressed gratitude for her activities as reported in the New York

"Daily Worker!

of 16 and 19 October 1952, and in connection with the

"Save Our Sons! Committee"

From April tn August 1953

was Chairman of the Advanced

Study Group of Camp #1. This was comprised of approximataly six(6) of

the leading pro-communists in the Camp. Its function: was to prepare,

under the guidance of the Chinese, lectures and material for radio broad-

casts, as well as programs for study groups at company leval. It occupied

the highest eschelon in the Pro-Communist element.

During bis confinemant

constantly applied himself to studies

of Communism. He wrote pro-communist articles for publication in the Camp

newspaper andfor

Company radin broadcast purposes. One of thase was

directed a Vishinsky and encouraged him in erguments he was then

presenting in the UN Assembly, Annther was in protest'of the United States

Government treatment of, repatriates at Valley Forge Hospital. Others

were directed to his family and were also of general, pro-communist nature..

In early August 1953

was transferrad to COF Supreme Camp

Head uarters to undergn intensive indoctrination in preparation for

facing the Neutral Nations Repatriation Commission as a voluntary non-

repatriate. He received such instruction until toward the end of August

and then was normally repatriated to, UN control.

spent his freo time in reading and study,

swimming,

and in

conversation with Chinese personnel concorning improvement in daily living

conditions, as well as obtaining answors to "particular questións":

claims that firm August 1951 he and Pfc.

planned

tỏ

sabotage the Chinese indoctrination program. Partial success is claimed

by virtue of influencing

several Psw not to accept non-repatriation and

creating confusion in the minds of PsW es to the dasibility of the

Cormunist life:

belives that: Communism would not be succossful in the United

States because the people are "basiclly selfish" and wuld ant

the regimentation and state ownership in Communism. Americans are

accept-

T0218taus end Commend an is on

posed to raligion. Communis takes away al

individual freedom and

'prefers" to do his "own thinking". Had

desired Communism he "wruld have stayed' with the Chinese".

ONFID

TIAL

Security Information

ONW 45907 DocId: 32324516 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Security

Information

K Act 6 (3)

9 November 1953

Squad and Pletson Lenders' were selected by Chinese fron anong ?sh.

at a

crilecting print approximataly 10 miles behind the MLR. In general

these ish retained thair prsitions until August 1951, and were selected

without any apparant reason. In August 1951 the leadership personnel was

shuffled about and those who had not proved

eroperative were replaced with

those who had demonstrated a cooperative attitude toward the Chinese.

Psw Loders did not

Psw.

"take roilcall" but were required on report abseaces of

Indoctrination of Psh began shortly after capture and was conducted

by previously captured PsW, Identified as "Workers"(Yun Sp Yen). Psw ware,

thereafter, continually exposed to accusations against the United States

for causing the Inreen conflict and its capitalistic policy. The thery and

principles of Communism were presentad to contrast

favorably with, the

denneratic way of life.

Indoctrination was accomplished through lectures, still end motion

pictures, discussion and

study groups(volunteer and required), publications

and rodin, bradcasts. All indnetrination was directed by Chinese personnel?

but presented by. both Chinese and PsW.

Publications offered for study included: London and New York

"Daily Worker"; "National Guardinn"; "Shanghai News"; "China Daily Naws

Rolense"; "Papples China"; "Proples World"

• The works if stalin, and

Marx-were als. utilized. A camp wide newspaper "For Iruth and Peace"

and company wall newspapers which were written,

edited and published

by Ps were also instruments of propaganda and ind ctrination, The

"Deily Worker", "National Guardian"

"Peoples World", and the "Perples

China"

often carried photographs of PsW engaging in daily activities.

These phot graphs

were taken by Chinese phrtgrephers. SUBJECTS were

Iways taven that would reflect the greatest credit tr the chinase:

Certein Psw whn evidenced

sincere accaptance of Communism, or who

'were belleved especially susceptible t indoctrination wore given special

training and indretrination and assigned to positions of responsibility.

BILaS was such a person.

Bach camp hed a Chinese controlled orgenization kin as the

"Peace Committee"

It was established in July 1951, disbanded temporarly

in March 1952 and reorganized with essentially the same Psw leadership,

in July 1952' as the Camp Club. This was finally disbanded in July 1953.

It was under the direction of the Central Peace Committee Incated At ?

Pynktong, Korea.

The functirn of the Peace Committee and/or Camp Committee was

t

plan end control the activities of the Psw through Company.

clubs,

and

3

CONFID

VIIAL

Sccurity, Information

ONW 45907 DocId: 32324516 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CONTINUE O

Security Information

EK Act 6 (3)

9 November 1953

according to the desires of

; Chinese. The PsW leaders were selected

by the Chinese and thrugh rigged elections obtained office. The organi-

zation also prepared and circulated the "Peace Petitions" and disseminated

ather per-communist propaganda to the Pswe

Both Chinese and PsW used the terms "Progressive" and "Reactionary"

thrugh at times loosely. "Progressive" meant he war by

attitude and or actions did, or appeared to, co parate or collaborate

There were varying degress of progressiveness and resetionaryism.

Lading "Progressives received bonefits and considerations from

the Chinese not extended to the other Psi. These included: fraadom of

movement about tha comp; better medical attention, reliaf from some

work details and physical training; parties at which intoxicants were

provided; extra cigar tts and candy:permitted absenco from rollcall;

no punishment for infractions of minor camp rules and reguletions. Psw

were known to heve raceived nonetary

rewards for making wire recordings:

6•13)

Al PsW were interrogated at least nace by CCI interrogators

and

were photographed. They were not fingerprinted. The interrngation was

basic and was supplemented by Personal History Statement prepared by

anch PsW. Certain Psw who were believed, or known, to have been connected

with intelligence activities, personnel assigments, military pr'ice

or amphibious units were given edditional interrngation..

"Reactinnaries"

Whn were discoverad in, or plenning, en escape were intensively

- Interrogated. Othor "Reactionaries" who were suspected of subversive

ectivity, or sullty of such activity, were

interrogated. Frequently

those. Ps were placed in solitary confinement, mistreated and threatned

with non-repetriation. Confessions were usually obtained and read public"

to assembled PsW.

Quit frequently leading "Pragrarsives" wuld be absant from Camp

Int periode of form one in fourteen days. These absences were generally

for further indoctrinatinn. Occasinnally the Chinese would annunce that

such a man was absent because of need for medical attention.

Approximately twenty four (34) 'Americans, one (1), Turkish, and three

hundred thirty six (336) South Koreons unrepatriated PsW are to receive

training in revoluti nary tactics and additional indoctrination in China.

In 6 tó 8 yoars the American Psw are In covertlyenter the United States

to bacóme underground activists for the Communist Party:

CONFIDEZTAL

Security Information

ONW 45907 DocId: 32324516 Page 5

---

## Page 6

ONFI

Security Information

9 November 1953

5th Army,

states that_

influenced "s toward conmunism through talking in favor of it and had

said "it( communism) was a good thing to be a part of!. He frequently

hed voluntary contact with camp officials. Ha appeared in have leanings

towerd communism or other foreign ideningy and volunteared for non-

repatriation:

(F-6)

CONFI

Security Information

ONH 45907

DocId: 32324516 Page 6

---

