# docid-32570092

## Page 1

UMUNAL YOUM NO. 149

5010-100

I•M LOSE IDITION

Fet. NO...

VITED STATES G

RNMENT

Memorandum

SECREY

Nro D. J. Brennan, Jr f

NoW: John J. Foarde, Jr. -000/-145

Classmen/ by

ROBERTO ALFONSO

Declassify are of

ANTI-CASTRO_ ACTIVITIES

1S - CUBA

Tolson

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA ISFORMATION

DATE: 5/21/65

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

Except the PRActins

MKH t-98

nid0g-v84

Tele. Room

2-23098

CASSIFIED BY 5668 SLOKSE

CLASSIFY ON: 25X

At 4:50 p.M.

intelligence Agency (CIA),

20/65s cher he Secure telephone, networal

concerning an additional item which relates to information furnished

earlier that there was to be a denonstration in Times Square, New York

City!

on the evening of 5/20/05S Neff sald that the same source who

furnished above-mentioned information had now advised that captioned

individual

a member of the Legion of baragua,

and 8 other Cuban exiles

were planning to enter the Russian Consulate in New York City and assault

the occupants.

This action reportedly planned to coincide with the

demonstration at Times Square scheduled for 7:00 p.m. on 5/20/65. Neff

also stated that this information could be passed

on to local authorities

in New York City and that CIA had already advised the State Department

18005

ACTION:

Refer to Nationalities Intelligence Section.

This was orally

furnished

12I1

to Supervisor V. H. Nasca at 5:03 p.m., 5/20/65.

Classimi

DY LUATEC

Declassity

0ADR /31/89

1109-5853

small decincrediy0-besperm.com

ATT. IAPORMATION CONTAINED

IBRAIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

BORN

EXCAPT WADRO

Сить 314

wanna 59114et incon

SEE REVERSE

advise cal folice auth metin,

CLASSIFICATIOI

ACHLON

place at feet tetable bode, dinner.

- Mr. Nasca

- Liaison

Mr. Foarde

7 0 JUN 81965

minutest-eteene hn+8 965 14671-0869

SECREU

10 - 110428

DocId: 32570092 Page 1

---

