# docid-32297442

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10219-10218

HQ

92-2914-280

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

FORSYTH, THOMAS G. III

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE : 09/20/1962

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

GM, ASSOC, RAIDS, GAMBLING ACT, ARREST, WEAPON,

REVOLVER, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32297442

Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

2.

PG 92-236

Will

follow and report activities of MANNARINO and his

associates in accordance with Bureau instructions.

ADMINISTRATIVE

This report has been delayed due to illness on the part

of preparing Special Agent.

In addition, the preparing

Special Agent has been requirea to devote a considerable

portion of his time to the urgent and important investi-

gation captioned "CHARLES FREDERICK TEEMER, aka., ETAL; ITAR -

GAMBLING. "

During the period of this report, close liaison has been

maintained with Special Agents of the Intelligence Division,

IRS, Pittsburgh, who are conducting investigation concerning.

subject. Also, close liaison has been maintained with

Departmental Attorney JOHN J. MULLANEY, who has been assigned

to Pittsburgh to work on the MANNARINO cases and who has

recently conducted a Federal Grand Jury inquiry into the

MANNARINO operations.

The Special Agents who observed the meeting at Greater

Pittsburgh Airport

between ANGELO ANTHONY MARINO and, subject

were SAS NORMAN T. THOMPSON and

JAMES B. FANNING.

INFORMANTS

The I symbols utilized in this report will be the same,

where applicable,

as those used in reports back to, and

including, that of 7/28/61:

PG T-2 is PG 612-C

PG T-32 is PG 640-CTE

PG T-38 *I PCI JAMES W. BURGART, New Kensington, Pa.

PG T-39 is PG 657-C-TE

PG T-45 is

PG

658-C

PG

• T-47 is

PG 654-C

WF

T-1 is CSWF-28

PH

T-1

is

PH 614-C-TE

PH

T-2

is

PH 591-C*

B*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32297442

Page 2

---

## Page 3

# t.

• In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

92-236

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

September 20, 1962

GABRIEL MANNARINO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Reference is made to report of Special Agent Thomas G.

Forsyth, III, Pittsburgh,

September 20, 1962.

There follows a brief characterization of informants used

in referenced

report:

PG T-2 is an individual who has had many years activity in

racketeering and prostitution in the New Kensington, Pa.,

area.

PG I-32 is a businessman in Mercer County, Pa., who has

had a lifelong association with gamblers

and racketeers.

PG T-38 is an individual who has been connected with

gambling activities in the New Kensington, Pa., area for

almost 15 years.

PG I-39 is a Pittsburgh, Pa.,

gambler and club operator.

PG T-45 is a numbers racket employee in the Northside

Section of Pittsburgh, Pa.

PG T-47 is an individual who has had many years activity

as regards to prostitution and gambling in Pittsburgh, Pa.

WE Tel is an individual who has access to information

concerning telephones and subscribers in the Washington,

D. C.,area.

PH I-l is an individual who has had many years association

with leading racketeering figures in the Philadelphia,

Pa.,

area.

PH T-2 is an individual who currently attends meetings of

leading

racketeers in the Philadelphia, Pa., area.

DocId: 32297442 Page 3

---

