# docid-32296320

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/14/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10217-10096

HQ

92-6054-135

Document Information

• ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

• TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DOYLE, JAMES E.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

•PAGES:

SUBJECTS

12/19/1962

9.

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS

THE CRIMINAL COMMISSION, ASSOC, HEALTH, CRIMINAL

ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

05/27/1998

INDEFINITE

19.1 -

DocId: 32296320 Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

FD-263. (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

INDIANAPOLIS

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

THE

CRIMINAL "COMMISSION";

ET AL, INDIANAPOLIS DIVISION

hup

REFERENCE:

DATE

12/19/62

REPORT MADE BY

SA JAMES E. DOYLE

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

9/18; 12/14/62

AR - CONSPIRACY

TYPED BY

-cam

ENCLOSURES:

ADMINISTRATIVE:

APPROVE

COPIES MADE:

3

A tines

Bureau (92-6054)€

2

New York (92-2300) (Enc. 2)

5

Indianapolis (1 - 92-549)

(1

92-334)

92-127)

(1 - 166-11)

(1

165-- 68)

Dissemination Record of Altoched Report

Aganey

Request Recd:

Date Fwd.

fal

cope

How Fwd.

BY

NY airtel to Director 11/13/62

- RUC

Enclosed to the Bureau is the original and one copy

of "Characterization of Informants" memo and enclosed

to New York are two copies of above memo.

Informants

IP T-I 1s LA 4393-PC, whose identity is known

to the Bureau.

IP T-2 is IP 3142-C, whose identity is known

to the Bureau.

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-16054-135

12- DEC 27 1962

Notatons

STAT SECT.

| COPIES DESTROYED

10 MAR 29 1965

DocId: 32296320

Page 2

---

## Page 3

IP 92-549

ADMINISTRATIVE (Cont.):

IP T-3 is PCI HERMAN GOOT

IP T-4 is CG 6512-C-TE, whose identity is

known to the Bureau.

Requests for coverage by highly confidential sources have

been refused by the Bureau in regards to ZIZZO and GRUTTADAURO, since

both are under investigation in substantive cases.

A request for similar coverage on FORMUSA's activities

is being withheld at this time pending his recovery and release from

a Chicago hospital.

A request for coverage by highly confidential sources

regarding MORGANO has been refused by the Bureau since the location

of intended source did not appear to be a meeting place where infor

mation of value could be obtained. Further, MORGANO has been free on

bond in a local bribery case, and in addition, under deportation

orders from the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

(COVER PAGE)

DocId: 32296320 Page 3

---

## Page 4

IP 92x549

ANIHON

Philip

CHUTTADURO, also known as Anthony

ut tadauro

On September 18, 1962, Confidential Informant IP T-2

advised SA HAMILTON that since FRANK NICK Z1ZZ0, FBI #1538814,

has been indicted by

the Federal Grand Jury in Hammond,

Indiana

GRUTTADAURO 1s now in charge of all Lake County, Indiana gambling

activities.

On November 20, 1962, Confidential Informant IP T-3

advised SA JAMES E, DOYLE that ANTHONY GRUTTADAURO is in charge

of all football basketball parlay cards distributed throughout

the Hammond-Gary area.

IP T-3 advised that GEORGE CVITKOVICH,

also known as GEORGE CORY, a present Fast Chicago, Indiana City

Councilman, formerly handled football-basketball parlay cards for

CRUTTADAURO in Last Chicago, Indiana, but this assignment had

been

taken from him when he became City Councilman.

IP T-3

stated

that CASIMIR LAVADA, also known as CASEY, a runner for these par-

lay cards, wanted CVITKOVICH's job, but did not get it, in favor

EDMUND

MILOZEWSKI, Hammond, Indiana, & relative of CVITKOVICH.

IP T-3 has previously advised that about three years ago

a dispute arose over one week's parlay cards involving winners

making it necessary for IP T-3 to contact the man in charge of

these parlay cards.

He stated that shortly thereafter, FRANK NICK

ZIZZO, whom IP T-3 advised is in charge of all bookmaking in the

Calumet area, appeared at IP T-3's place of business, and intro

duced the informant to ANTHONY GRUTTADAURO, whom he advised was

in charge of the parlay cards in this area.

FRANK NICK ZIZZO, also known as Frank P./Cease,

"Ceaset

McDonald

FBI # 153 88 14

On June 26, 1962, Z1220, along with employees WALTER

WOJCIECHOWSKI; HUGO LAZZARESCHI, and ALEX STROSKY, were indicted

by a Federal Grand Jury, Northern District of Indiana, Hammond,

for violations of Interstate Transportation in Ald of

Racketeering

Statute and Conspiracy to Violate Interstate Transportation in Aid

of Racketeering Statutes:

All four individuals were arrested by

U.S.

Marshals, and on July 31, 1962, appeared in U.S. District

Court, Hammond, Federal Judge

GEORGE N. BEANER presiding, and

through attorney EDWARD J. CALIHAN, Chicago, Illinois, entered not

guilty pleas to a 20 count indictment outstanding against them.

DocId: 32296320 Page 4

---

