JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/22/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10215-10328
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 105-80291-1ST NR 53
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: SAC,MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE: — 12/07/1960
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
[Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: —1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 05/27/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: — [NDEFINITE
COMMENTS :
Pe

v9.1

DoclId:32295552 Page 1


ans |

Via

SEERET ox» zr

Jo.

Transmit the following in AIRTEL
(Type in plain text or code)
AIRMAIL |
(Priority or Method of Mailing) iH
plgeegar ae tegieeeazteuie gang aeregat aes ane gain eagnl ad peean ga again sn anpvep agi agaeganaienipal apie gaa fppetetese eee
70 3 DIRECTOR, FBI
FROM 2 SAC, MIAMT
GUIDO D' ALESSANDRO
IS - DR
(Bufile 105-86130)
(MM file 105-2489) Nal
(00: NEWARK) YY
MAX GARCIA, aka Pe eee NS
IS - DR; RA - DR LASSIFIED BY Stee SLOleee, ‘
(Bufile 97-4345) ee Y GN: OB XG Ue), *
(MM file 97-387) = Gees Pee e
(00; TAMPA) a G
J
Re Miami airtel, 11/17/60. *Y
On 12/5/60, PCT EDWARD PIATKOWSKI advised GARCIA told
him during mid-aiternocn he was leaving for Tampa, Fla., to pick 7
P )
6) - Bureau (RM)
2 - Tampa (Info) (RM} ft
2 - Newark (Info) (RM) Al.
2 - New York (Info) (RM i
1 - Cleveland (Info) (ZARTONE) (RM) i
8 - Miami (2cc 105-2489-D' ALESSANDRO; i
2ce 97-387-GARCIA;
lee 87-8756-BROWDER;
© 105-2006-BARTONE; ORG f— j
a 105-1924-FONDEURIE\’ | 5 & A
lee 134-510-PIATKOWSKT) | Soe 7 RECORDED —
RBK:mfm 174 DES 15 1960 ii
(21) mein f >
AL.
BLO LL det Sent M Per

‘Special Agent in Charge

Docld:32295552 Page 2


MM 105-2489

MM 97-387 — SECRET

adding, "It's
When PIATKOWSK:
mentioned (be had Beek unable to locate UEL FONDEU! y)
during past few deys, GARCIA[said "To hell with FONDEUR
I've made different arrangements’. It is noted(FONDEUR.
is (clerk at Dominican Consulate] i, who has discussed
kidRaping of D'ALESSANDRO withTbot! ARCIA [and prarxousn {S)
GARCIA indicated to PIATKOWSKI he would maké’ necessary
contacts in New York and asked PIATKOWSKI to see if he
could get the "contact number" in NYC as he had lost it.
PIATXOWSKI said GARCIA apparently falsely assum e had
been given a "contact number" in wie [oy FONDEUR., 3)

Later that evening PIATKOWSKI said GARCIA had
not yet left Miami but voiced intention to do so that
night. On 12/6/60 PYIATKOWSKI said GARCIA still in Miami,
but still indicsting iatent to leave for NYC. PIATKOWSKI
said he inquired of FRANCISCO MALDONADO IGLES, sKperson
who originally(put him in contact with FONDE about a

"contact number” in NYC and MALDONADO said hé did not know
name or number of contact, but contact supposed to be at
Hotel Rossof.

It is note sgne Eo Cyd 50, Foxe R told PST
JOSEPH LIQUORI he ec) 1a (roublefiin DR, nad [ his job\S)
at consulate, and waS supposed to Geturn to a @.”

although he did not plan to do so Serer (rz ad

On 12/6/60, U. S. Customs Agent EDWARD FICKIE
advised he had talked with GARCIA and was considering
use of GARCIA as informant. He said GARCIA admitted being

USS
REVIEWED BY FBY/JFK TASK FORCE

Docld:32295552 Page 3



asea" Sener

in Miami to set up sale of arms for DOMINICK BARTONE,
Cleveland, Ohio, who was previously convicted in Customs
case in matter involving illegal shipment of arms to DR.
GARCIA voluntagily told FIQKIE he had been fto_ at
expense of DR(with romevifaa while there wagéffered
$100,000.00 to“deliver D'ALESSANDRO to DR. He said idea
was discussed that D'ALESSANDRO might be lured to DR

by getting him to lead an expedition against DR which
would be trapped by DR in which event reward might go ae
high as $150,000.00. GARCIA said he did mot like idea
and had backed out of it but volunteered to do anything
he could to help U. S. When asked by FICKIE if he could
get back "in" with persons behind plan, GARCIA indicated
he probably could. FICKIE believed GARCIA intended to
get back "in" through FONDEUR. .

It would appear that since GARCIA has discussed
this matter with FICKIE he is not likely to engage in any
kidnaping piet of D'ALESSANDRO, but is possibly now talk~

ng as he js pe eps to regain the confidence of
Gonintccashh, effort to assist PICKIE, FICKIE indicated

@ felt it would interfere with his operation if GARCIA

is interviewed by FBI. He indicated he hoped that through
GARCIA he could uncover the operations of BARTONE and
BARTONE's associate im Miami, EDWARD BROWDER, who has been
previously involved in matters of interest to Customs.
FICKIE said he would keep Miami advised of any information
concerning matter of D'ALESSANDRO.

In view of above, Miami does not contemplate
interview of GARCIA at this time, and will maintain
contact with PIATKOWSKI in this matter.

L SECRET

Docld:32295552 Page 4
