JFK Assassination System

Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10291-10394
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 92-11720-1
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: TRANKLEY, ALLAN M.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
)
DATE: 01/28/1970
PAGES: 11
SUBJECTS :
NRO, ASSOC, SORRENTINO, RALPH ANTHONY, BKG, EMP,
B/F INT, RES, CRIM ACT, LCN, REL, TRA.
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATEOF LASTREVIEW: 05/07/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

vol
DocId:32307254 Page 1

Date: 427/201


| REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE Of ORIGIN Dare INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
MIAMI yt Aut 1/28/70 10/7/69-1/20/70
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE eY TvPED BY
RALPH ANTHONY’SORRENTINO, akd ALLAN M, TRANKLEY 1b
Ralpt{/Sorrentino CHARACTER OF CASE
“ raat
AR / veo SO
-pPp-
: LEADS
xy BUFFALO
ra AT BUFFALO, NEW YORK

Determine place of incarceration of subject who
was sentenced to 34 to 10 years for robbery and rape and

was paroled in 1940.

. MIAMI

Set out lead for a review of the
penitentiary records for background information,

“7

4 ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

NONE

“convie |aurto.| ruc. FINES SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER OnE YEAR [ves Kno
PENDING PROSECUTION
OVER sIxMONTHS = (C]ves Kno

SPECIAL AGENT

APPROVED

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:
Bureau

- USA, Miami

Departmental Attorney

DOUGALD MC MILLAN

Buffalo

- Miami (92-2539)

pee DD yyraq

NN HH

N

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd. —_ t

Date Fwd. [Organized Crime an x

Date Fwd. | , THQ by
How Fwd. H§ca re (#/2>/27 request.
ei ee Bufile #62-117290)

|.DocId:32307254 Page 2

# U8. CovEnsMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1967 0—273-877


MM 92-2539

AT FORT LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA

Determine subject's current activities, employ-
ment, and associations.

ADMINISTRATIVE

The period of this report includes only the
period from October 7, 1969, when this case was opened.

INFORMANTS

“MM, Ta is PHIL BUOANNO, PCI.
uM 72 ‘Es, MM 625-c> i

MM T-3 is WILLIE SHULMAN, PCI, cuseeee a
MM T-4 is MM 790-PC.

MM T-5 is MM 725-C.

MM T-6 is MM 946-C.

MM T-7 is MM 1226-PC,

MM 7-8 is MM 984~-C-Te,

MM T-9 is MM 1377-PC,

MM T-10 is MM 1401-PC.

ale

BE
COVER PAGE

DocId:32307254 Page 3

Cn

ee

&
