# docid-32335537

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/4/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90124-10095

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 109-12-211-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

DIA

TO :

TITLE:

DATE: 06/11/1965

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS:

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL

POLITICAL MATTERS DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF DIA

COMMENTS: BULLETIN, INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

DocId: 32335537

Page 1

28

---

## Page 2

NO. FOREION DiSMINATION

CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION

11 June 1965

DIA Intelligence Bulletin 113-65

political Matters DoMiNICAN RepuBLIC

BRAckETEs iNto withiN

this REjOIN REMAINS CLASSIFIED

POR DIA ON 1-22-98, thE REmANing

7,10

is derLAsSiFiED.

MATERIAL

501K58

INTELLIGENCE

BULLETIN

UTED

12-212

19-12 a/1

JUL 20 1965

Safts 78

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

REGRADING: DOD DIR 5200 10

DOES NOT APPLY

109-12-71.36

5-c:1

7 COPY FAED IN

JUL 21 1965

:32335537 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET-NO FORLION DID

Bolivia Calm but Political Maneuvering Goes On

Bolivia is generally calm despite the continuing

roundup of leftist labor leaders.

The move of troops

into the mines will apparently

occur in a day or so.

Co-Presidents Barrientos and

Ovando are still discussing implementation of the

government's mine reorganization decree with delega

tions of miners, and efforts to sell the government

program seem to have achieved some success. The

miners are still well armed, however, and could start

further trouble.

Despite their public display of cooperativoness,

bat afier the mine problem was settled, Ovando should

ake a well-earned rest in Spain -- perhaps as ambas-

sador.

Barrientos also seems to be building up bis

own strongman within the army -- he frequently empha-

sizes his trust in the Chief of Staff, Col Vasquez.

(CONFIDENTIAL,)

SOURCE:

DIA Intelligence Bulletin

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

lage

3

132335537 Page 3

---

