JFK Assassination System Date: 5/28/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10216-10455

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2918-5TH NR 96, 6TH NR 96

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: SAC, PG
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 04/21/1961
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :
SMO, GM, SUR, BUSS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC A/T

vol 42
Docld:32296179 Page 1


Se

) O
4/24/61

AIRTEL

fo: Director, FBI (92-2914) (92-2918)
From: SAC, Pittsburgh (92-236) (92-228)
Subject: GAUAIES MANNARINO, aka

a .

SANUEL cc js ake

Remyairtel 4/21/61.

on 4/2461, the neighborhood source in the vicinity of
the MANNARING cottage on RD #3, Leechburg, Pa., advised
that. litie activity was observed at the cottage from
4/21-24/61. The caretaker and the dogs were observed
from time to time but no visitors showed up, possibly
due to the almost incessant rainfall during she week end.

on 4/24/61, PCL JOSEPH GEORGE, New Kensington, Pa.,

advised that he had received information that GABRIEL
MANNARINO is the owner of a trucking company by the name

of MANNO!Real Estate and Trucking, Buckhorn Hotel, Marionville,
Pa. He said this trucking. company 1s jokingly referred

to as B & G Trucking Company, the B & @ standing for

Bullets and Grenades.

LEAD
ERIE, PA. Resident Agency
At Marionsville, Forest Co., Pa.

Will ascertain ownership of Manno Real Estate and Trucking
Co. and extent of its operations.

BOTH SUBJECTS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.
} ft rm
6 - Bureau (3-92-2914) q -J ic
Sarah i EEa

rs ‘OL RECORDED
o> Pittsburgh (1-92-236) NOT Ree al
(1-92-228) ee 135 arr 23!

meee een

_ STMAY 3 1961 ¢5¢/

Docld:32296179 Page 2

2)
ORIGINAL FILED my IP

ee

#



am Volumen

mse oy iat ot pte
an cnpeeagasy
ay Bae sx Se saa madi Bs eaferta to enoeet to
oo | :  omtenene mewn

DocId:32296179 Page 3

