# docid-32308616

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10294-10474

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-579

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

LEG, MD

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

01/09/1962

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, ASSOC, TRA, TELCAL, US EMBASSY, MD

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1.

• DocId: 32308616

478

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104

UNITED STATES GOVET NMENT

Memorandum

TO

Director, FBI

CONEIDENTIAS

PROPRIATE AGENCIES

AND FIELD DET FEES

STIP (S) OFSS

DATE_

DATE:

1-9-6₴

FICATION

FROM

Legal Attaché, Madrid (92-7) (P.)

E.

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA,

aka

LASS.

& EXT.

1638

ANTI-RACKUTEERING

5. U

MASON-FCIM 11,

-2.4.2

92317497 R

Re Madrid cable 12-22-61, Bureau

table 12L26-61, and

Paris cable 12-28-61. MU

In amplification of the information contained in

reference

Madrid cable, the following is being supplied(W .

On 12-22-61 the writer received what purported to

be a long distance call from an individual

speaking the Spanish

language.

An unusual factor in this call was the fact that

it came in on the office airect line and the caller asked by

name for either the writer or

"Mr. KEENAN".

that Assistant Legat LAURENCE P. KEENAN O1 the Paris OIIICe

was on temporary duty in Madrid during the month of November

while the writer was on annual leave

nd

handled the investiga-

tion of instant matter at that time.

t is also to be noted

that the telephone number of the direct

line in the office is

known to only a valaw highly-placed official contacts of

the Madrid Officé.

number is unlisted so far as the

telephone directe

is concerned.

The caller very clearly spelled out the name of the

subject,

stated that the subject was

ARNSTEIN and one ROBERT SCHIFF, and that the

three planned to travel from Paris to Madrid on 12-23-019

although their exact itinerary was unknowy.4) l8,

The caller requested that the Alien Brigade of the

Directorate General of security be supplied with the above

information in order that appropriate coverage could be

established, and specifically requested that serial numbers

Hof U. S. currency and of travelers checks utilized by the

-three individuals be noted down

inasmuch as this information.

would be of interest to the FBI. § (4)

B4 - Bureau (1 - Liaison Section

1 - Chicago)

92

-3171-599

1 - Paris (sent direct)

1

- Madrid

CDA :HD

10 JAN 16 1962

(6)

DECLASSTFT

ON 12

appeal

,ce

51 JAN 23 19621

DocId: 32308616

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Madrid 92-7

"CONFIDENTIAL

The writer questioned the caller at several different

the caller was

the caller was tade charged Arcaden e ce ambassy a varieto

Inasmuch as the Madrid file on this matter reflected

that Assistant Legat KFENAN had handled coverage on the subject

in November 1961, when the subject was in Madrid, through

Mr. LUIS POZO GONZALEZ of the Directorate General of Security,

actual surveillance.of the subject having been arranged by

Mr. POZO with the Alien Brigade of the Directorate General of

Security, Mr. POZO was contacted on 12-22-61 and requested to

verify whether the call concerning the subject and the other

two individuals had originated with his office or with the

Alien Brigade: Mr. POZO subsequently advised on the same date

that the call had not come from his office and that he had

checked with the Alien Brigade

had been made from that officedu

and had been told that no call

Inasmuch as Mr. HAROLD MOSS, U. S. Treasury repre-

in the Embassy in Paris, had previously expressed

an interest in this matter, the Paris Office was telephonically

contacted on 12-22-61 to ascertain whether the information

contained in the telephone call may have originated with

Mr. MOSS.

The Paris Office subsequently advised on the same.

date that contact with Mr. MOSS and his office in Paris had

Ialled to develop any information indicating that they were

responsible for the call. fj(4)

The Madrid Office is presently endeavoring to verify

through Mr. POZO whether EMIL ARNSTEIN and ROBERT SCHIFF

actually arrived in Madrid on 12-23-61, it being noted that

reference. Bureau cable indicated that subject GIANCANA had

been in Chicago and that there was no indication that he planned

to return to Europe in the immediate future (8/w)

The Madrid Office file on this matter reflects that

one JAVIER OCANA of the Alien Brigade of the Directorate General

of Security was the one who apparently handled the surveillance

on the subject in November and who reported on the matter to

A copy of this letter is being sent

direct to the Paris Office with the request that Mr. KEENAN

advise whether he recalls if the telephone number of the direct

line in the Madrid Office, 2 26 61 99, was furnished to OCANA C

in the course of his investigation of

the subject in Novembere

.-2-

CONNSENTIAI

92-3171-579

DocId: 32308616

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Madrid 92-7

CONFI

If this be the case, it would appear that the possibility

might exist that the call on 12-22-61 originated with OCANA

An extra copy of this letter is attached for

forwarding by the Bureau to the Chicago Office

for information.

The Bureau will be advised of the results of the Madrid

Office inquiries concerning Eill ARNSTEIN and ROBERT SCHIFF.

CONEIDENTIALL

3

92-3171-5719

DocId: 32308616

Page 4

---

