# docid-32332925

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90104-10223

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2940-70

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) -

Case#:NW 56792 Date: 04-12-2018

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 02/13/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

HH 56792

14

DooId: 32332925

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-561

FBI

Date:

2/13/61

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

A IRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2940)

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SAC, PITTSBURGH

(92-226)

SEBASTIAN JOHN

ROCCA, aka.,

ANTI-RACKETEERING

(00: Pittsburgh)

• ReBuairtel to New York, 2/1/61.

In accordance with Bureau instructions, a thorough review

of all information in the files of the Pittsburgh Office

relating to SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA has been conducted.

This review has encompassed information developed in

our Criminal Intelligence Program and that information

gleaned from informants: as well as information being

received on a continuing basis from a highly confidential

source at LA ROCCA's place of business, the North Star

Cement Block Company, 12 Mc Candless Avenue, Pittsburgh.

This source was activated on 2/7/61:

In answer to specific questions set forth in reairtel:

1. LA ROCCA 1s not presently the subject of a sub-

stantive case, nor is any process--local, state

or Federal, currently outstanding against him.

2. At present the subject is seeking to squelch any

publicity concerning himself, according to Informants

A slight possibility exists that employees may become

involved in ITSP violations in view of the fact

that LA ROCCA prefers to hire state parolees as

truck drivers at his cement block plant. Pittsburgh

will remain alert to discover any vulnerable area

wherein there is a possibility of establishing a

violation within the Bureau's jurisdiction against

LA ROCCA.

REC- 64

Bureau

Pittsburgh

NRAV/bac

(1 - 92-407)

(6)

97

29410-10

2 FEB 16 1961

Approved:

BcBx

special Agent in Charge

Sent

- M

Per

HH 56792 DocId:32332925 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-226

3.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service at Pittsburgh,

although it maintains an active interest in LAROCCA

and his activities, no longer has an open or pending

LA ROCCA has resisted success-

fully all efforts to effect his deportation and has

withdrawn his petition for naturalization.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service verified the

aforementioned on 2/13/61.

The Internal Revenue Service at Pittsburgh

be built today for $125,000.

He purchased it for $42,500

and is known

to have put at least $40,000 into the nouse

surrounding property.

He drives a new Fleetwood

Cadillac and his wife has a new Oldsmobile.. LA ROCCA'S

adopted son is in attendance at Valley Forge Military

Academy, Wayne, Pa., where

the minimum tuition, room and

board is $2,225 annually.

LA ROCCA 'S 1959

JFK Law 11(a)

- 2 - 1

REVIEWED BY

BUFK TASK FORCE

ON

7. 14-98 dal

RELZASE IN FULL

I RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL 92-2940-20,10

HH 56792 DocId:32332925 Page 3

---

