# docid-32292112-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10208-10388

RECORD SERIES: HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HAYES, JAMES D.

TO: DIRECTOR, FB1

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/07/1969

18

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

• RESTRICTIONS :

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

---

## Page 2

FD-263. (Rev. 3-8-67)

• FEDERAL:

TREAU OF INVES GATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

TITLE OF CASE

JUSTINA MIREYA MORENO GONZALEZ, aka

Mrs. Osvaldo Juri Albayam,

Justina Mireya Moreno Gonzalez

de Juri

DATE

NOV

7 1969

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

10/16 - 10/30/69

REPORT MADE BY

JAMES D. HAYES SECRET

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

s11

IS - CUBA

ICE)

REFERENCE:

ureau letter to

Newark

"TAKEOVER, IS - CU.'

- RUC -

dated 10/16/69, captioned

ALT INFORMATTON CONTATNED

HEREIN IS UNODASSTITED EXCUPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

REQUEST OF BUREAU

Submit copy of this report to the Attorney General

for determination as to whether or not subject is required

to

U.

register pursuant to the provisions of 851-857, Title 50,

s. Code.

CLASSIFIED BY 56685L0/GCe

- ADHINISTRATIVE -

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.0.L6

5K) 10/29197

This report is being submitted in accordance with

referenced Bureau letter.

made.

No local dissemination is being

AUTO.

ACCOMPLISHMEN TRAS AEPBUECTION IQVERIES

ACQUIT

FUG.

FINE DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

CASE HAS

BEEN:

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

OVER SIX MONTHS

N THIS DOGIEMENTCKP 3-18.98

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOS)

134-16644-50

YES LINO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

3

- Bureau (134-166447 (RM) (e(5)

- Newark (134-3319)(RM)

1 - New York

(Info) (RM)

1 - Miami

(134-1434)

& REC- 101

y7 to Miami

By to NYINK

•ate

11/18/69

By. HAD: qme

Remar See attached 0-17

Dissemination Record of Attached Report:

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

CC to AAG: Yeagly

Date Fwd.

спро

3/8/98

1/19/69k

How Fwd.

R/S1 AS

SEAT

(ПК)

70 NDV 2 0 1969

NOV 10 1969

EX 106

130A

SECREL

---

## Page 3

MIM™

({34-1434](S)

SEORET

Sources and Informants referred to in this report

as contacted with

MM 492-9

and 1N(815 TCe)

negative results are PSI CARMELINA BONAFONTE...

Source is CIA, covert, Miami.

(U)

INS Lookout Notice, F-l and F-3 stop, continues

to be in effect until January 30, 1974.

This report is classified "secret" inasnuch as

it contains information so classified.

Information copy is furnished New York for their

11le.

An extra copy of this report is being furnished

Newark for possible transmittal to INS inasmuch as subject

currently resides in the Newark area.

- B

COVER PAGE

SECREE

908-19391

---

## Page 4

*FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF PESTICE

EDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAr

SECRET

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Fiold Office File

Title:

-ALL INFORMACION CONTATNED

HEREIN IS UNCE SSTRTED EXCORT

WHERE SHOWN OSHIDENISE.

JAMES D. HAYES

Office:

Miami

NOV

7 1969

134-1434](S)

Bureau Filo + [34-16611(5)

GUSTINA MIREYA MORENO GONZALEZ (S)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE (E CIA INFORMATION

Syn

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP 5-18-948

SLD/ISR

6-23-981 JFK

Character:

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

on 7/12/67,

another governmental agency which conducts

intelligence investigations,

informed that during

September, 1962, (subject was approached by the Cuban (S

Intelligence Service (CIS) in Cuba and offered the

opportunity of taking an "espionage course however S

she claimed asylum in the Uruguayan Embassy in HavanaCS

before any follow up was made by CIS. (She subsequently) <S_

came to the United States.

. 1967, she received a letter from a CIS agent ICS

surrestingta meeting in New York Thereafter, (subjectS

voluntarily advised the FBl that while in New York during

July, 1967, she was recruited by CIS to work for them, CS

in Miami. Shejfurnished detailed information concerningLS

her contact,

targets, objectives, paraphernalia, instructions

and communications

ources and Iniormants not aware o

ny specific activities engaged in by subject while inCs

Miami.

5668-520/nde 12/1/92, (5FK).

- RUC -

CLASSIFED BY 5668510/oce

DECLASSPY ON: 20MC)(6)

DETAILS:

JEK) 10/29197

on July 12, 1967, another United States Govern-

ment Agency Which conducts intelligence investigations C5

(Justina Mireya

3|8/95

Stas

Deale

SECRET

5668 SIde GAT.

(FK)

Excluded

downgrading an

automatic

declassification

This document.Contatns neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

---

## Page 5

MM

134-1434 | (5)

(Intelligence Service (CIS) in Cuba and offered the CS

opportunity of taking an

being sent abroad. She accepted this offer;

claimed asylum in the Uruguayan Embassy, Havana, Cuba, CS

9, 1962, prior to any follow-up from the sa

(shewent to (Spain and subsequently arrived in the United (SJ

being denied entry into the United StatesS

States on December 19, 1964.

Subject]was in contact (with PEDROJORAMASY PEREZ, (SJ

a Cuban

intelligence agent assigned to penetration of

anti-government groups in Cuba.

on May 11, 1967, (shelES]

received a letter from ORAMAS.

letter (of instructions presumably from the CIS. Thisl5.

was addressed to Mrs. Mireya Moreno, 319 South-CS.

west 13th Avenue,

listed as (Cecilio Fernandez, 84-29 153rd Avenue / HwaB, CS

Queens, New York,

and the letter was postmarked way 2' (SJ.

1967, Flushing, New York. This letter requested thel

(subject to work for the CIS in the United States,"

with C5]

suggestions for a meeting in New York or Canada. (S.)

subject took no action concerning this letter. (S)

On July 6, 1967

phone call from a Cuban female who identified herself CS.

as "Julia She alleged she was a cousin of ORAMAS CSd

subject that in accordance with a message from CORAMAS, LS_

New York City on July 14, 1967,CS

at the Hotel Rex, where "Julia" would meet S

(hex. (S)

- 2 -

---

## Page 6

MM/134-1434 J(Q(5)

SECRET

DesJuly 29 and July 21, 1967, Mireya Moreno, [S

319 Southwest 13th Avenue, Miami, Florida, voluntarily

furnished the following information to representatives

the Federal Bureau of Investigation: eC

New York (SJ

la eastern Airlines on July 14, 1967. (She immediatelyl S-

roceeded to the Hotel Rex, located on 47th Street,S

York City.

the name of Justina Mireya Moreno,

early the following morning.

on July 15, 1967, at 8:45 a.m., [she returned (S

to the Hotel Rex, accompanied by her son-in-law, Luis_C≤

hotel and were of the impressionshe was visiting withS

National Front of the Escambray (SNFE), an anti-Fidel

Castro organization.

MEET WITH CARLOS MORALES QUEVEDO,

FIRST SECRETARY OF THE CUBAN

MISSION TO THE UNITED NATIONS

(CMUN).,

NEW YORK CITY

On (July 15, 196%

immediately after checking[s]

out of the Hotel

she inquired of the desk clerk for@S

Moreno's

who was waiting in a salon off the lobby of the hotel,

3

SECRET

---

## Page 7

MM 134-1434] @(5)

SECRET

unidentified

he said that rulial had gone luoking for Justina, Cs)

They conversed S

briefly and he invited her to sit down where they could CSS

talk: (864)

Numerous photographs, including personnel

to the United Nations [S]

(CMUN), were exhibited to moreno.

She identified the

the unidentified Latin male

husband.

te related he was

CMUN. (5

Morales suggested they go to her roomat thelS.

then he agreed to talkS

(Hotel Rex,

worry about having registered at the hotel under her true CS

name,

because there would be no record of her registration&s

at this hotel,

indicating Morales has excellent contact SJ

at this

Morales was interested in CIA infiltration in

transpired when (Moreno talked withsJ

the American Consul in Madria,

Spain (1963); ArturoLS.

also known

"Pelon", who works

an inter-

Aldo Vera Serafin: Anarss

Nazarionarsen,

Armando Fleites Cesar Diosdado; Or lando

Carbalto;

Grand

RECE",

and ENRIQUE

LIABRE]S)These are the things which he asked her about. (S

mentioned the aforementioned

individuals and organizations merely to test(her)reaction(SJ

and knowledge.

However, all conversation was limited

each matter discussed very briefly.

Morales asked Moreno if she had an automobile CS

and she said she had a (Dodge automobile:

He then asked S

whose blue Malibu Chevrolet she had been driving recentlye S

company

i fat man with glasses, whom she described as

-

4-

---

## Page 8

MM

134-1434

186(8)

SECRET

(JOSE RODRIGUEZ:

MORALES was interested in JOSE (S

RODRIGUEZ? political sympathy and (she informed him>-

RODRIGUEZ was a very good friendof hers from Cuba (S

who was

sympathy with FIDEL CASTRO's government

Cuba

concerning ARTURO CASTRO, who MORALES indicated LS_

United States Government, possibly CIAL_

she understood he was in contact with PEDRO ORAMAS PEREZJ CS

ORAMAS, an old guard communist and member of G2 inCS

Havana,

contact with ARTURO CASTRO.

is unaware of (ORAMAS' true

arly furnishes reports to hin

would be of assistance in these movements. She said she

had been accused by ARTURO CASTRO and JORGE LUISI CUERVO C

XCALVO, a Grand Master of the Masonic Lodge in Cuba, of

being a pro-CASTRO communist.

ssue off"Look" magazine, which he said contained twoL

vhite carbons to be used for writing secret messages.cS

ndicating inside the leather was a microfilm message for

ode to be used in connection with her CI'S recruitment,C

the following accommodation addresses were

furnished to her, and she was instructed to send letters S

when time permitted, otherwise, (she could send a cableS

CARIDADAMESA MORALES Calle 132

Vedado,..

Havana Da

Calle 2171360-Apartmen

between 24th-and 26th CS

Vedado,.

Havana Cuba.

-

5

-

---

## Page 9

134-1434

SECRET

She

wag

instructed to send letters to these CSJ

accommodation

addresses concerning (sabotage, proposed CS_

attempta

on

the

lives of FIDEL CASTRO and other officials

of

the

government of Cuba, information concerning plans, LS

CIA

and houses and arms caches in Latin America JES

She should send

cablo to the aforanentioned accommodation

Addresses

concerning attacks and landings in Cubalor any(S

other instance

where

tine was of the essence. Shelvas to

he word "

take place,

and racere to maicate an attach

" moaning an infiltration is to (S

matric long rostect the day Co3 - 3 anet 15 l

to

one •

She does not complotely understand the meaning

of this

Communicationg

- Code ] (5]

The

following (nanes vere to

be used in the cable (Sl

to indicate

the following (locations

in Cuba:](S]

"JUANA" is Pinar del R1O.

"MAITA" 18 Havana.

"GLADYS" 1s Matanzas.

"HAIRA"

1s Las VillaS.

"ROSA" 18 Canaguey:

"ANA" is Oriente.

("JORGE" OF "JOSEFA"

designates the nörth coast. J(53

"HUGO" or

"YES" designates the south const?(5

For

example, "Jorge

oporara dia 18,

saludos

Juana"

(Jorge 18 being

operated on the l8th, groetings,

Juana ESS

Code

tor

Cables

For

urgent information which cannot be waited for

throug

established.

channels,

rapid type

of communication

6

---

## Page 10

MM

134-1434

SECRET

such as cables 18

necessary

For this reason

establish code which is explained below. Esj

(1) to indicate the (type

text of the

shall

saludos (greetings) - infiltrations

reCUArdOS

(5)

(regards)

-attack

(2) This 19 gufficient to indicate the type of action.

should indicate

subtract two

Which the action 18

to tale place] (SI

Exanple:

day of the action

days which you will add

day you will indicate

in cable

15

2

the result tea number

CS

Brample: a(month]which has (30 days)($]

day of action

[S]

daya which

you add

e un

total

ES]

17

The

system:

Thue

you have & sun total of -

Plus mumber of days in the month 30

Rosult

result will bo the day which you indicate

in the cable

To indicate the arony we will use the following CS)

Juana - Pinar Dol Rio

Marta - Habana

Gladys - Natanzag

Maira - Las Villas

Rosa - Caraguey

Ana

- Oriente

(5)

---

## Page 11

(5)

(S

HM 134-1439 | (*78)

SECRET

In order to specify whether it is the north coast or theS

south

1 you will begin the cable with either lof two Cs

Teresa - South Coast

Example of complete cable:

Jorge will be operated upon the 18th

saludos (greetinge) Juana](s)

for us, the text of the above cable will mean:

Thore vill

be an (In111tration]os the north coast, GE

on the 18th,

at Pinar del Rio. ES

Communications DrOP

(MORENO

was instructed to obtainle locker in Grand (S]

on the lamppost with red

Chesterfield package of cigarettes, crumpled up as trash,

to be thrown in the air conditioning untf of JOSE Lo, HELULS.

241 Contral Parimay. New York City. she was also instructed

to use the sane procedure at night; obtain a locked in GrandS

central station at 7:00 P.., leave the suitcase, etc., inLS_

san post between 8:00 P..

and 8:30 P.M.(S

thereafter deposit the ley in the same air conditioning

Communications} Instructions (SJ

for Invisible Writing

CS

MORALES furnished her) with typewrittenS

Instrúctions (inSpanish on anall paper, 3 1 49" S

"INSTRUCTION FOR INVISIBLE WRITING]S)

"The (two shoots of paper) which we are sending (S]

have been

chomically treated) 1n order to be (S]

8

---

## Page 12

MIM

134-1434 ](8)6)

SECREL

"used as

• CS]

Invisiblo

'carbons" in the preparation of your

we call them 'carbons' e

because

tho 1r

unction is similar to that of

the

In order to write, theCSJ

following

materials are necessary: < 5'

"1)

92)

an air nail onvelopo](57

o sheets of white 'bond' paper or CS.

na11

onion skin'S

and a No.

"Instructions for (silting) the (

invisible sousage:S

"B)

881a88 or Formica

a sheet or white paper) and placels

(S)

"C)

Iron top to bottomand fron bide to CS.

side, in other vords, in all directions.S

Doing this gently, (clean the paper on CS

On this beet of paper. place one of the

carbons" which ve are sending you, andS

that the writing doe

the sheet of paper whichS

wipe off with the handkerchief; on ss

of this,

goes the "carbon and on

of the carbon] goes the blank sheet Cs

of paper on which you have indicated thelS

folds in order to prevent the writing CS

from coming in those areas.

You must

turn all (three sheet in such a way as (S]

9 .

SECRET

---

## Page 13

MM

[134-1439 ](XYS)

SECRET

*D)

permit you

blank sheet on

side

side as ve usually do.

Take

the

No. & pencil, which should not lS

very

ballpoint perCs.

nich doss not scratch wien you arels

you wish to send,

two centimeters

On

leaving & narginof

a11 81008.

Always

and

etween the lines. Do not use periods

cams or quotation marks. Instead of E

bers

peat's and when the message 1e finished

add the word "end" filling out the lineCs

"After

you have completed the DeBa89 s

Immediately:

the following

"A)

RemOve

too

a than and place a been d

sheets of paper. and place 1t

safe,

dry hiding place,

used 20 more timesjin the future.

can

Try

with

original (Spaniah uses

"repito"

one word (S

which to translated "I repeat.")J

- 10

---

## Page 14

T9 7 88(6)

"B)

The page used foruriting the message <S

should I

• burned immediately. L S.

"°C)

With a ballpoint pen or with pen and S.

"tha (page) which contame the G73,

invisible message, write a friendly

letter on the same side on which thel

Getter 1s written.

contain (the date) and t11l (one Hide or (S

the page (at least), although it canS_

SECRET

"Note:

address of the sender and addressee

should bo luritten before plecing the CS

Invisible message 1n the envelope.

We wish

to stress the following:

the

pressure

Jused in(writing the invisible.

message is very inportant. It most not s

I too beavy or too light.

Write a bit CS

more Lightly than you normally do.(JJ

the (carbon" has been used for s]

, the pressure ghould CS:

5o (increased sonowhat

since the more (SJ

1t

Is (used) the more (lightly) it comes CS]

up

when developed." (S

(she stated MORALES) indicated he would like to meet (5]

w1th hor on September 2, 1967, at 3:00 P.M.Shelvas instructed(S]

to proceed to Loew's Capitol Theatre, Broadway and 51st) Street,(S)

new for city, and enter the salon to the right of the mains

lobbyas you enter the theatre. In this connection, heÇS

Furnished her five

20 bille totaling $100 to cover hert S

expenses and plane

fare to New York.

He Indicated at that

t 1me

(to not up a

no vould possibly furniah he with saterial necessary

radio transaltter and receiver plant in miami.

He also indicated( she ghould not becose affiliated or active.

i n

LADY AnTI-CASTRO organizationat this time. (She)shouldCS

renain friends with individuals in all of these Organizations )(5)

- 11-

---

## Page 15

BAT 234-1434 JCX) (5)

SECRET

countries.

she balloved he meant by this a person friendlyls.

the LAstRo communist governent of Cuba who might renders

Iavors to visiting comuniete passing through MiamiL 5.

Radio Havana Cuba is a shortwave radio

station operating 24 hours a day,

propagandizing the FIDEL CASIRO communist

governtent

of Cuba, and 1o completely

anti-United States.

He explained the subject) could ba of considerable (S

value (to the CIl in the united States(on a long-range(S]

program.

On August

2, 1987. (eubject) advised a representative (S

the isi that a recalled the following additional infor-C

mation

firet Secretary

concerning her meet with CARLOS MORALES QUEVEDO CS

New fore city, on July 15,

1967: CS]

(Re RIGOBERTO GONZALEZ

J<S

MORALES, after referring to a

Cuba within the

past a1x

atteapt to kind out 1' (GONZALEZwas working for the Central(S]

Intelligence

(CIA). He wan interosted in knowing

GONZALEZY whereabouts and activities. (showas told that (S

iniornation che developed concerning (GONZALEZ should (S

Turnached to the cis by cabie. MORENO did not call s

MORALES? having

furnished

GONZA LIZ

any further identification ofCS)

more

noted coRALs'interest In GONZALEZ seemed (S

definite

1n the other individuals he had

tioned

| men- (SJ

above.

she related that aa of hugust &,

1967,

she

unable to ascertain any information con-(S

corning GONZALEZ, horever,

expoeting

felt that MORALES) night have been(S

Bone (communication) do this

rogard. (S

- 12.

---

## Page 16

31-1434 X (s)

SECRET

NO

JUAN

PEREZ RIVAS

(5)

MORALES sade inquiry concerning CPACO" (FRANCISCO) (S

PERSZ RIVAS,

stating

that he understood this individual vas

working on a cla boat traveling from the United States to

could not ba"PACO" because

[She corrected MORALES, advising him that 1+(5)

NO, "PACO" PEREZ RIVAS, was in(S

Venezuela,

brothers. (She intorned MORALES that

located in Miami.

(MORALES expressed interest in know

ing whethor or not PERit was working on a boat going to (SJ.

Latin America and

was, to what countries the boat

might be traveling, whether

countries.

•to Banana, Colombia, or other (SJ

The subject advised she vas acquainted with JUAN CS

PEREZ RIVASand know that ho

chi located in Mians but he ald item

the (captain of a sorchant (S

the name of the (S)

(company.

the CIA.

She did not balleye CERaz RIValuas working for C51

resided near the corner of dorthwest i9th

Jand 17th Avenue when not aboard ship. (SJ

Re

ENRIQUE LLABRE)(S

that during her conversation withls

MORALES,

the mad mentioned that nRIQulABRwas possibly

those individuals

an wlant The had accused/ her ofcS.

being an infiltrator for the CASTRO governent of Cubee

when(she mntioned the nane LLABR

MORALES 1dênt1f1od him C5

"AL MORO"

(The Moor - dark one l'E NPROX L914

MORENO

(described

ENRIQUS: LIABRE as a' man

1<5]

approxinitely 50years of

an t1-conuniat, who worked (S

CASTRO, 1e0

In own

("Polon, "ia covert inter- (SJ

for CIti

SCHEDULED NESTING SEPTEMER 3) 1967 (S]

(MORENO

recalled that rolative to her acheduled

meeting

g1th

MORALS in New York City on september 2, 1967

MORALES

he they

could converse without any probloms (S

1n

section

lobby of the Loov's Capitol Cheatre CS

TO

aIlay her fears

he said

this could be reserved and CS]

therefore

they would

I not be disturbed.

• 13 -

SECRET

---

## Page 17

134-1434

SECREL

MORENO said that with reference to her previous CS.

Information indicating ARTURO CASTRO was working for the CIAl

and mistakenly trusting and furnishing information toLPEDRO C

KAMAS PEREZ she was surel CASTRU was erkIng.as an interC

(covert) for the CIA. She said CASTRU had taith inC

ORANAS in the past in Cuba when ORAMAS was suspected of < S

being an Infiltrater for the Department of State Security Z

her bellois in this regard. She said ARTUKU CASTROstillC

had trust in OnANAS.

mation to (ORAMAS in Cuba relative to possible anti-CASTROCS

great deal

in Cuba®

surprise

accused as a

Government of Cuba infiltrater by CAsTRO.

This to her

was an indication that the Cuban Govemment (S]

had received information relative to accusations made

agsinst (her) in Miant.

In this regard and relative to thee S

infornation

apparently in possession of (MORANIS regaralages

her personal

11fo 1n Miami, she

conjectured that some ofCS

this

normation might have had ite origin with CARLOS < 5-

She advised that EGUILUZ LI

occasionally visited her

home in

the past and was sonewhats

familiar with her habits.

She said she knew EGUILUZ to be anti-CASTRO and (5]

had known

his in Cuba as connected with the SINE (Second

national Front of the Escambray, when she had begun operatingS

with this novement aftorthe Playa Giron. She figured that<S

EGUILUZ being anti-CASTRO and suspicious of her.) mightls)

passed on his

suspicions to ARTURO CASTRO,&(S)

Subject also during 1966 recalled that on one CS

visit to

the home of EGUILUZ by her she surprised him inCS

the company of a tall,

blond, Spanish-speaking man. (SheJCS

said that Equiluz lightly passed off the presence of this

individual, who apparently knewber identity,

and did nots]

further explain his presence. Subject was

led to believe CS]

Iro tals occurrence that the stranger

from CIA and

that (EGUILUZ) 18 possibly & CIA contact.

- 14 -

SECRET

---

## Page 18

MA

134-1434 | (S)

SEGRE!

COMANUR ICATIONS DROP (PE)S)

subject recalled that on July 18

1967, per LS

the Instructions Of CARLOS MORALES QUEVEDO, she went to (S]

the Grand Contral Station,

where at approximately 3:00 P.M.,CS

she obtained locker #9048,

1n whichshe placeda brief (S

esune of ner activities in cuba for the information oics.

This locker was obtained by her in a regular CS:

manner land was not (a number designnted by MORALES,) nor wasCS_

ho present at the time. She then proceeded to the north.

east corner of Second Avenue and 75th Street, Manhattan, (S]

New York city pars the ode a cross or en

'"X" on the lamp-(S

York City, the office of JOSE F.CS-

(she returned the evening of July 18, 1967, from(5)

New York

to Hian, arriving in blami in the early hours oi

July 19, 1967. She has no knowledge as to whether or nots)

the resure was racovered by Moralis as she hag not been!

contacted by or in communication with him since her meeting)

RE RIGOBERTO GONZALEZ.

* (5)

MORENO originally stated that CARLOS MORALES had(S

specifically expressed an interest In RIGOBERTO GONZALEZ. CS

however, she did not have any further identification of hind

She was reninded the name RIGOBERTO DELGADO had appeared 1n(5

"her letter to PEDRO _ORALAS.

1s taken because of faulty memory from the time ofchery SJ

he name vas DeltAlO and not Gorkall and that she had been s.

writing this letter and the interviews by representative

heree 11) knew LS

nothing about (DELGADO,) (gES)

Investigation at New

York City revealeds that

First Secretary of the CHUN

- 15 -

Scl

---

## Page 19

SECRET

MM

134-1434

York City for the perlod September 1 LS

through September 4] 1967. AlsO, (MORENO]was reportedly 111 S

ind apparently did not travel to New York City.

The refore,

proposed meet of September 2, 1967, did not occur. S

Contact with various sources and informants

familiar

with both pro and anti-FIDEL CASTRO activities

in Cuba and the United States in 1967 failed to reflect

the subject

was engaged in any Cuban political or revolu-

tionary activities.

SECRET

- 16% -

---

