# docid-32334026

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90110-10019

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

CR 2-1562-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

NY

HQ

TITLE :

DATE : 09/16/1959

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF ATF

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

DocId: 32334026

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

36, (Rev. 12-13-566994

Xi

ліку

FBI

Date:

9/16/59

I REC

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code) ATT

REVIEWED BY EVJFK TASK FORCE

TO :

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR;

FBI

RELEASE IN FULL

SAC; NEW YORK (2-550)

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

CHARLES COLLE; Ammunition

SHY

Shipment - Neutrality Matter;

ALL INFORMATION- CONTAINE

REGISTRATION ACT - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

HEREIN IS, UNGLASSIFIED

(00: NEWARK)

DATE 1/21/96 BY Spamat

Re San Juan teletype 9/13/59, and Newark teletype 9/14/59.

Transmitted herewith to the Bureau are five photostatstody

KALES, ALCOnOL and TODaCCO laX UniT

received by this office on 9/14/59.

Miami, Newark and San Juan

are each being furnished one photostat of this memorandum.

On 9/14/59, U.S. Customs Agent DAN DUNNING, NYC, was

advised of the contents of referenced San Juan teletype by SA

EDWARD J. DEVINS. He stated he is well acquainted with COLLE and

LEONARD TRENTO in connection with arms shipments.

He added that

he will place stops with airports in New York and New Jersey area

to be notified of shipments by COLLE or his company, the Millville

Arms Co. of Millville, N.J.

In connection with this matter, the NYO, on 9/14/59,

received a letter from the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Unit of the

Treasury Department which letter was dated 9/11/59. Attached to

the letter was a copy of an office memorandum submitted by Special

Investigator RUDOLPH KALES•

The letter explained that ATT Informant

202 (known to this office to be ARNOLD RAYBER, a licensed arms

dealer of 202 Flatbush Ave.,

Brooklyn,

NY) has not been contacted

by his source off Information as of 9/11/59. A

copy Of KALES"

3-Bureau (Encs.5

1-Miami (Info) (Enc. 1)

REC- 3%,

15621074

1-San Juan

EX 105

1-- New

York

2-550)

NCLOSUR

ATTACHE

EJ: EG

(5)

393

5-2608

copies mado

556/92

Merole

P

Special Aggnt in Charga

(See Bufile /02-117290)

DocId: 32334026

Page 2

---

