# docid-32291423-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10207-10199

HQ

62-9-12-408

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, DL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/25/1963

5

CIP, GAMBLING, INTV, WALKER, GEORGE, FISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

22

---

## Page 2

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

3/25/63

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

SÁC, DALLAS (94-55A-SUB)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel, 3/18/63.

RE: SHERMAN FRANKLIN LITTLE, aka.

IGA

(DL 162-129)

On 3/20/63, GEORGE WALKER previously identified as

a person who placed bets with subject's runner, MARVIN C. COX,

was interviewed by Bureau Agents.

COX for over fifteen years, but disclaimed that he had ever

placed any bet with COX or by calling any telephone number

He denied any knowledge or acquaintance-

ship with subject LITTLE.

He stated he has seen COX on several

occasions at the Office Club, 312 West Davis, Dallas, and also

admitted having been a guest

at the Belmont Club, in Dallas.

WALKER denied there was any gambling activity in either club.

On 3/21/63, JOHN W. STANLEY, who was also identified

as a person placing bets with COX, was

interviewed by Bureau

Agents.

STANLEY identified COX as a person he has known for

three years and who he has seen on a couple of occasions at Hot

Springs, Arkansas.

STANLEY admitted placing bets with a man

named "Sherman"

whose telephone number he obtained from a Negro

locker boy at the Oak Cliff Country Club, A. Z. SANDERS (deceased).

STANLEY claimed his last contact with COX was eight or nine

months ago at the country club and that the only time he placed

bets with

"Sherman" was during the spring of 1962.

3-Bureau

I-Dallas

(162-129)

1-Dallas

(137-1306)

1-Dallas

(165-61)

1-Dallas, (162-95)

I Dallas (165-90)

114

Approved:

1-Dallas (166-56)

1-Dallas

(166-58)

1-Dallas

(92-39)

1-Dallas

(94-55A-SUB)

PM2; 47-9-12

(127

REC.

Sent

17 MM22 Pea

Special Agent in Charge

10001

---

## Page 3

DL 94-55A-SUB

On 3/21/63, Bureau Agents noted that LITTLE's car was

gone from his Irving, Texas residence at 8:30 AM, which is a

departure from his usual routine. Efforts are being made to locate

his new place of operation.

On 3/21/63, PCI MICHAEL LESCHETSKO advised that recent

activity by Bureau Agents around the Redmen Club, 3109 West Davis,

had caused the members to become quite upset to the point where

they now had signs in the club room, demanding that members play

cards only, not discuss any bookmaking activities whatsoever, or

discuss any betting activity.

from Dallas gambler EDDIE TOM GREEN that COX and LITTLE were again

operating as bookmakers and had a place "out in the county", no.

further description.

The above information was furnished to Lt. JACK REVILL,

Intelligence Section, Dallas PD and Deputy BOB MORGAN, Intelligence

Section, Dallas County SO, on 3/22/63.

RE: HENRY CLINTON WINFREY, aka.

IGA; ITWI

(DL 162-95; 165-61)

Daily checks of WINFREY's apartment, 1041 Knob Oak

Street, Dallas, were conducted during the past week and subject's

car was not observed at any time.

On 3/21/63, TINA MC DANIEL,

subject's landlady advised she has not seen him at the apartment

since 3/14/63 and was of the opinion that he was out of town on a

"business trip". On a pretext, she had her Negro porter check the

apartment and he advised that there was still someone residing in

the apartment evidently as he had observed clothing and other

utensils used by the occupant.

This information was furnished to Lt. REVILL and Deputy

MORGAN on 3/22/63.

RE: MATT FERRIS

ITWI

(DL 165-90).

On 3/19/63, FERRIS was placed under fisur by Bureau

Agents in an effort to establish his pattern of activities.

FERRIS is a holder of a wagering tax stamp issued by Irs.

On 3/19/63, it

was determined he leaves his house every morning

about 8:30 AM and delivers

four young females to two different

schools in the Oak Cliff area, after which he returns to his resi-

dence.

On 3/21/63, after making the above delivery, FERRIS pro-

ceeded to the Lowington Hotel, a residence hotel, in the south

side of Dallas, where he picked up an unknown white male, and then

- 2 -

---

