# docid-32301055

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10277-10390

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-2ND NR 8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/21/1960

• PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS:

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32301055

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NOV 2 1 1960

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERBEN IS UNCLASSIPISO

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

AIRTEL

7700/0

70:

FROM:

RS:

DECLASSIEY ON: 25X

DIRECTOR, VEI

SAG, MIANT (134-455)

CHANGED

JOSE ALBERTO DE LA PAZ RODRIGUEZ, aka

Pepo De La Paz

PSI - CUBA

(00% MEANT)

ETA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEULASSIF

RATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIO

IN

FHIS DOCUMENT.

mKh 2-6-98

SID /KSR

APTRORE

AND PITIO

GAT

5068, old

8

ASS

9/18/82 19k

The ticle is marked changed to include tha nano

PEPE DE LA PAZ, a nane commonly used.

Ne NovElous Lecter to Che Dizector 11/4/460

STIP IS

tand teletype to the Director 11/9/60, captioned TROTA

GONZALEZ MELO!

PSI - CURA

S)

ORIGINAL 50F

JFK

Enclosed are 9 copies of a letterhead memo, dated

and captioned as above.

The source of information in the enclosed lettez-

head meno is captioned PSI, who furished the information

on 11/8/60, tO SA MAURICE F. FARABEE.

The incoration in

the enclosed letterhead meno is furnished in the event the

Dureau desires

disseninate it to CIA, sinow DE LA PAZ $a a

nember of MIRR.

part of operatio

and CIA 15 suspicious

of the MERR, but

Danis

is Interested in following its activities]

In addition to into BA

mation contained in the enclosure, DE LA

furnished the

following:

SLA INFOLGA REMAINS CLASSIFIE

TELETE

ALL OTER RICLASSIFICO PER

(и)

NONS 12, 326 3/25/90

(EncE-9) (RU) (AI)

SITE MEE

Tork (134-5533) (Eing)

91-4494

(1

4674

(mog)

MCT - 16

7204H0

(7)

NOT RECORDED

140 DE U

6

51960

REVERSS

SIDE

FOR

CLANSITICAITOX

ACTION

51 DEC

DEC

6010604

CECRED

DocId: 32301055

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRED

MM 134-455

During the time he was in NYC, from approximately

9/22/60, to 10/24/60, [JOAQUIN SANCHEZ, Clerk, Cuban Consulate, [3J

NYC,] an acquaintance of DE LA PAZ| for approximately the past

[3]

year, endeavored to contact him telephonically at his place

of employment, the (Latina Shipping Go,) on 4 or 5 occasions. [SJ

On the last occasion SANCHEZ]was successful and expressed (5]

Indignation that (DE LA PA/bad not retured his calls. (DE LA (5J

PA? said he informed (SANCHEZ|that he had not returned his calls / 5]

since he, (DE LA PA?, has been labeled a counter-revolutionary S?

and did not think it proper for him to be calling wich (SANCHEZ

whereupon (SANCIRZ terminated the conversation.

That night, [5J

[5] ofLSOSA/during the time (DE LA PAZ)was employed at

, the /Cuban

Consulate and when he received the call fron SOSA he was [S]

harsh in his convergation withSOSA and sOSA wanted an explanation (S

as to why DE LA PAZ was so harsh.

DE LA PAZ said be told SOsA

that he did not trust (SOSA.

Thereafter 5051J inquired abouE r 5)

Miami PSI HEROINA GONZALEZ MELO wIth whom DE LA PAZ) has resided (S

in commonlay in the past and alter [DE LA PAZ]cold(SOSA MELO

[S]

was doing okay so zar as he knew, LSOSA/hung up. DE LA PA:

said the above persons plu(MARINA MORALES) and [LUIS GARCIA,

mentioned in the enclosure,

were the only Cuban Consulate 15 J

employees he talked wich while in NYC.

It is noted that PSImLo) advised on 11/7/60, that

MANUEL GUILLOT told her on 11/5/60,

that DE LA PAZ had called LS-

Cho (Cuban Consulate, NYC, 3 times agd had talked with NILDA [SU

Consulates A ording to FE,

ANGONTO SOSA and PEDRO, VEGAS, a11 employees of the Cuban

DE LA PAytold her after hiaLS,

$20 and (CELIA CIRONA,

an enployee of the Cuban Consulate,

NYC, had siven him

PST MELO advised on 11/7/60, thaz)DE LA PAZ, after

his arci

eLC in her tesidence a rifle wich case.

eitle number SYKROP (1) --5/45:2283, which DE LA PAZ said was a

- 2-

SECRETI

DocId: 32301055

Page

---

## Page 4

(SECRET

101 134-455

hunting sifle.

DE LA PAZ

when interviewed on 11/8/60,

advised mentioned zifle was a zifle he purchased approxi-

mately 2 years, ago and had left in the residence of an

acquaintance, LOCTAVIO LAREDO, in NYC; however, (LAREDO was LS_

afraid to have the zifle around his son, and DE LA PAZ IS

brought it to Miami wich him.

PSI (MELO made available g

personal letter in

Lad Spanish Language dated L1/1/60, to her, which DE LA PAZIS_

had Deit at her residence.

shortly after his arrival in

mant, An english cranslation of the letter reads as follous:

"Novenber 1, 1960)

"My dearest cupuz: (s)

"You will not understand what this separation

means, maybe you will not understand the reasons for it,

but naybe sone day you will understand "sonething,"

maybe even evezyching, connected, with this short letcer.

"I want you always to remember that I an giving

up everything that is good, and the happiness I had with

you.

Wich God'a help, we will be together again and

never be separated again.

"CUQUI,

it will be hard for you, I realize that,

and even harder for me, since, as I said before, I gave

up evesything that is good, especially you.

You mow what chis Lecter means.

God will

orgave me, and & nope you, coo, win tocgave de

"Pron one who loved you, who loves you now,

and who will always love you.

- 3-

SECRET

DocId: 32301055

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

101 134-455

•PSI MELO alaciuade available a note on a piece of

paper wich ne addressedkubich[she found in a suitcase left at

her residence Py DE LA PAZ.

It was in the Spanish Language.

An English translation reads

as follows:

"I am going to Cuba

to die or to win, not for personal gain, but to keep the torch

of liberty forever lighted."

(DE LA PAZIwas questioned as to whether he has

participated in any practices in tzaining camps or has intentions

of going to Cuba.

He mentioned the pistol practice raferred to

in the enclosure, but stated he has been

in, no training cams

and lows of nons which exist in Floride.

nen questioned con

cering the noce

ugde ayailable by PSILELC indicating he was

[SIgoing to Cuba, DE LA PAZ was nable to fumish a valid explanation

for the note but stated it was_ a foolish thing to do and that

the note had no significance

but wer

pagt of his plans of

breaking off his relationship wich l

- 102(5)

In view of the tact there is a discrepancy y

mation furnished by DE LA PA2 concerning bie contacte

mployees of the Cuban Congulate, 3G,

and that infotuation

Furnished by MANUEL GUILLOT to PSi MELIalus the fact DE LA

PAz has admitted being a member of che tits, a countes

revolutionary group, no further contact will be nade with him

and the 134 file in the Miani Office is being closed,

- 4 -

заноза!

SECRET

DocId: 32301055

Page

5

---

## Page 6

UN

D STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

STICE

SECRET

CONTIDENTIAL

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

134-655

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

Miami, Florida

NOV 2 1 1960

RE:

JOSE ALBERTO DE LA PAY RODRIGUEZ

A source with whom there has been insufficient

contact to establish reliability but who is well acquainted

WIth JOSE ALBERTO DE LA PAZ RODRIGUEZ, alSo known as (PEPE (5

DE LA PAZ, frnished the following Information to the Miami

Office of the FBI on November 8, 1960. (DE LA PAY waS born [S

30, 1931, it Havana,) Cuba, and comenced employment at

the Cuban Consulate, New York City, in July, 1949, a positionS

held until his transfer to the Cuban Consulate, Miami, Florida, C>-

on January 6, 1960.

He was the Acting Commercial Attache at (S

the Cuban Consulate. Mani, until. May 19, 1960, when he

received written notice of dismissal from his position by the

Cuban government under provisions of Cuban Law 203, which ^ S

law deals with the cooperation with the former

regime of

FULGENCLO BATISTA on the part of a current government

employee.

DE LA PAZ currently resides at 2143 Southwest S_

6th Street,

Miami, Florida.

From the time of DE LA PALD

dismissal from the

Cuban Consulate, Miami,

he resided lu Miami until approxi-

mately September 20, 1960, when he moved to New York CItyL

In New York Cityhe resided with an acquaintance named L-

OCTAVIO LAREDO, 130 West 57th Street, New York City. After (S

several days of seeking employment, he located employment

forwarding company,

located In New York City and owned by LS_

EDUARDO GONZALES.

GONZALES is & member of the Frente

Revolucionardo Democrarica (Demeatle Revolutlonesy PTO CS)

(FRI) • Through GONZALES, DE LA FAL MEt CARLOS RODRIGUEZ

61691

CLASSIFIED BY Seed SLorde

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

110/95 5065088/69T(0FK)

SPEEDECL

Declassify on

CADR 310/95

CONFIDENTIAI

SECRET

ENCLOSURE

1:9%

41110

DocId: 32301055 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CONFIENTIAI

JOSE ALBERTO DE LA PAL

RODRIGUEZ SECRET.

member of the

Movimiento

Insurecional de Recuperacion

Revolucionario de Cuba

ona hovement of the

KeVolutionary

art Recovery of Cuba

(MIRR) •

As a result of

DE"LA PAZ conversatIons With

RODRICEZ, DE LA PAZ signed (5]

a membership document in the mikk. white in new lork,

DE LA PAZ conversed with. VARINA MORALES and her brother-In-CS-

Law, LUIS GARCIA both of whom are employees of the Cuban

consulate, New York City DE LA PAZ also talked with

(s]

with MARINA MORALES and LUIS

GARCIA, X CLEMENTE MORALES was a coumander in the Cuban

police force under the regime of PRIO SOCARRAS and holds

a high position in the Associacion de Amigos de Arango

(Association of Friends of Arango) (AAA), an anti-CASTRO

organization headed by AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO. (LUIS [SJ

GARCIA is also a member of the AAA.

LDE LA PAZ left New York City on about October 24,

1960, and arrived at Miami, Florida, on October 26, 1960.

Since his arrival in Miani, he was issued & 45 caliber pistol

by an unidentified member of the MIRR and has practiced

with it on the outskirts of Miami on two of three occasions.

The MIRR in Miami 1s reportedly headed by ORLANDO BOSCH, 4138

Southwest 16th Terrace, telephone HIghland 6-I289.

PROPERTY OF FBI - This memorandum is loaned to you

by the FBI and neither it nor its contents are to be distri-

buted outside the agency to which loned.

2*

CONFIPENTIAL

SECRET

DocId: 32301055

Page 7

---

