# docid-32989751

## Page 1

File #:

62-117290-

SECTION &

Serial Scope:

HIW

492 THeU 494 496, 497, 499, 50/, 502,503, 508,501,

509X/, 510,5107

5/0X2

5/2

514,515

524,524X1

528

531,532

534

5.3.6

539,540

5471547X

558

THRU

565

550631

DocId: 32989751

Page

572

ander bhe boar E. Verrede Gaaaanzrasier Reocade

2o0 c8 2992 M44 TEO 2007 MoDeln Oaae=:07 55062 Dabe:

-25-251-

---

## Page 2

d,

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMA:

MICHARDSON PREYER, I. CA

SAMUELL.

VE, OHIO

YALTER 'E. ENINTHOY, DIC.

STEWART B. MOKINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE DHATHWAITE DURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES THONE, NEBR.

CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.

HARCLO S. SAWYER, MICH.

MAHOLD E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT WY. EOGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

FEDERAL COVORARADTS

Louse

Select Committee on Assassimations

_Er.5. House of Representatites

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

March 23, 1978

Roc.cou

3/27/25

• one ile

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the circumstances

surrounding the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, ux., it is requested that the Federal Bureau of

Investigation provide this Committee with the following docu-

ments relating to latent fingerprint examination:

1.

copies of all photographs and/or negatives of latenty

fingerprints examined during the course of the

MURKIN investigation.

2. All original transparent latent lifts, of value and

of no value, in the possession of FBI. Headquarters

or Field Offices, which were collected during the

course of the MURKIN investigation.

3.

Copies of all laboratory work sheets relating to

the above latent fingerprints.

4. A complete set of fingerprints and palm prints, if

available, for the

following individuals:

1) James Wilborais

rAshmore

DOB 3/28/28,

lemple, Texas

FBI #4869 529

9a62-111219-522

2)

11 MAR 28 1978

3)

Anthony Charles DeCarvelho

Richard Dodd Wis fd

DOB 3/1/46

3 P. EH 1010

FBI #89 942E

".f?

TREAT AS

ORIGINAL

51978.

WW 5506 ep

d: 32989751 Page 2

---

## Page 3

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

March 23, 1978

Page 2

4)

5)

Raul Esquivel

DOB. 11/17/26, Belize, Brütish Honduras

John P. Joyce

w/m deceased

Last known address: 730 North Parkway

Los Angeles, California

6)

Joel M. Levy

w/m

Year of Birth: 1936

7) Frank J. Liberto

.w/m

Memphis, Tennessee

8) Howard Limrick

DOB 10/10/24.

• 9)

Marie Martin

JOB 1U/ 1/32, LouISIana

FBI =110 913C

10)

Gus Joseph Prosch, Jr.

DOB 11/17/30

11).

James Earl Ray

DOB 3/10/28

12)

Jerry William Ray

DOB 6/16/35

13)

John Larry Ray

DOB• 2/14/31

• 14)

15)

16)

Randolph Erwin Rosenson

DOB 3/20/34, Louisiana

William A. Somersett

rear of Birth:

1903

Charles Joseph Stein

DOB 5/11/29, Louisiana

FBI #881 534 B

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 3

---

## Page 4

".

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

March 23, 1978

Page 3

17)

Rita Stein

DOB 3/4/38, Louisiana

FBI #881 534 B

18)

Jesse Benjamin Stoner

DOB 4/18/24

19)

Jerome Wallis Vernon

DOB 12/13/45 Texas

Your assistance in this matter is greatly appreciated.

Respectfully,

12. Robert Blälay

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

• GRB: sgd

Danny Coulson

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 4

---

## Page 5

3/29/78

1 - Mr. Foster

To:

SAC, Atlanta (170-290)

From: Director, FBI (62-117290)

HOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ONL

"ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

Enclosed for Atlanta is one copy of waiver given by

JFK Act 6 (4)

to HSCA dated 3/13/78.

NC

Per HSCA letter dated 3/13/78, request was made for

all files relating to [

the SCLC in Atlanta.

The Committee provided a copy o1

enclosed waiver from Harrison for his informant file.

On 3/23/78, the Committee was provided a cost

Bufile 134-11126, relating to

This release was coordinated with the Criminal Informant Unit,

Criminal Investigative Division.

The Committee has requested that the Atlanta

Field Office informant file also be provided.

UNRÉCORDED COPYFILED IN

MAILED 18

MAR % y 1978

1 - 134-11126

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Ache =

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _

Crim. Inv.-

Fin. & Pers. =

Ident.-

Intell. -

Laboratory -

Legal Coun. =

Plon. & Insp. -

Ree Mgnt. _

Spec. lav. _

Tech, Servs.-

Training -

JFK Act 6 (4)

Jand AT 134-389) to the attention of Congressional

Inguiry Unit, Records Management Division.

Enclosure

EX-10L

- REC42

62-117290-565

11 MAR 30 1978

NOTE: HSCA ascertained that Harrison was Bureau informant and

obtained waiver from him for his informant file.

Gerald

Hamilton, HSCA, advised that the Committee also wanted a

copy of the Atlanta Field Office informant file for Harrison.

SA Jeff Jamar, Criminal Informant Unit, Criminal

Investigative Division

coordinated release of Bureau informant

file of

JJEK Act 6 (4)

JEK Act 6 (4)

Upon receipt of Atlanta informant file for Harrison,

it will be processed under current guidelines and released

to

the Committee.

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Secy =

MAIL ROOM

NW 55061 DocId: 32 88751 0 Page 5

TELETYPE UNT D1 115-34

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 6

125

P

MAA

SiR

TELETYPE

ROUTINE

UNCLAS

FM DIRECTOR C62-1272907

TO ATLANTA ROUTINE

LOS ANGELES ROUTINE

MEMPHIS ROUTINE

MARCH 29, 1978

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

I - Mr. Foster

AT THE COTIED

UNCLAS

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS CHSCAI; BUDED: APRIL 21, 1978.

IN CONNECTION WITH THE INVESTIGATION INTO THE ASSASSINATION

OF MARTIN LUTHER KING JR., THE HSCA HAS REQUESTED ACCESS TO FIELD

OFFICE FILES IN THE FOLLOWING INVESTIGATIONS: I ATLANTA-ENTIRE

SECURITY FILE CONCERNING MARTIN LUTHER KING JR., EAT FILE 100-55863.

2. MEMPHIS-ENTIRE SECURITY FILE CONCERNING KING £700-47057, AND THE

ENTIRE SECURITY. FILE CONCERNING COMINFIL, SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP

CONFERENCE ESCLCI (157-1663. 3. LOS ANGELES-KING SECURITY FILE.

6700-572297, AND COMINFIL, SCLE £100-6524177 BUT ONLY FOR THE PERIOD

JANUARY I I967, THROUGH JUNE 30, 196.

RECIPIENTS SHOULD FURNISH EETHQUANE o-FGTR6.FIOGOPY OF DOCUMENTS IN

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAR E? 19/

D-S 04072

Ab colsis

339/8

TELETYPE

EX 101

3.51

62-112290-56

REGAZ

2 MAR B0 1978

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adn. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _=

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Perso.

Ident. -

Intell..

Laboratory =

Legal Coun. _..

Plan. & Insp. -

Spec. Invent

Toch. Servi d

Tralning -

Public Affs. Off.=

Telephone Rm. =

Director's Sec'y=

MW 55061

ArK 101978

MAIL ROOM I

DocId: 32989751 Page 6

TELETYPE UNIT L2

FBI/DOS

---

## Page 7

PAGE TWO UNCLAS

THE ABOVE FILES. IT WILL ONLY BE NECESSARY TO FURNISH A COPY OF THE FIRST

PAGE OF ANY SERIAL PREVIOUSLY SENT TO FBIHA. ALL OTHER SERIALS IN THESE

FILES WHICH HAVE NOT BEEN PREVIOUSLY FURNISHED TO FBIHQ SHOULD BE

REPRODUCED IN THEIR ENTIRETY. ITEMS WHICH CANNOT BE READILY PHOTOCOPIED.

SUCH AS PHOTOGRAPHS, MAGAZINES, OR OTHER BULKY ITEMS, SHOULD BE DESCRIBED

IN THE COVER AIRTEL SUBMITTING THE MATERIAL TO FBIHQ-

ALL MATERIAL SHOULD BE FORWARDED BY COVER AIRTEL TO FBIHQ, ATTENTION

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION, BY APRIL ZIT

1978-

NOTE: By request dated 3-15-78, the HSCA, among other items, asked for

access to the Field Office files of Atlanta, Los Angeles, Memphis, and

New York concerning the King and Southern Christian Leadership Conference

On 3-28-78, HSCA Staff Member Michael

According to figures available at FBIHQ, the volume of

material involved in Atlanta is 80 Sections, 8,321 serials, and in

lemphis, 18 Sections, 516 serials. Figures for Los Angeles are no

vailable because only a portion of the files are being requested.

The entire King and SCLC files in Los Angeles consist of approximately

Deadline is necessary since HSCA has requested expeditious

handling of all its requests.

NNNN

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 7

---

## Page 8

AI0877 08 12235Z

• RR HQ:

DE AT

R 222235Z MAR 78

FM ATLANTA (66-22°2) (RUC)

TO DIRECTÓR (62- 117298) ROUTINE

BT

'CUNCLA'S

DIVISION

22 Не 78 гJ 793

RECEIYED

FEDERAL BUREAL

OF INVESTICATION

COHMUNICATIONS SECTION

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv._

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.-

Crim. Inv._

Ident._

Intell.

Plan. & risp.

Recavignt. HEr

Tech. Servs.

Training

ATTENT ION: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MANAGEME phonE RO.

Director's Sec'y

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA); BUDED

MARCH 24, 1978

RE BUREAU TELETYPE TO ATLANTA, BIRMINGHAM, CHICAGO,

LOS ANGELES, MEMPHIS, AND NEW ORLEANS, MARCH 21, 1978S40

REFERENCED TELETYPE ADVISED THAT IN CONNECTION WITH

CAPTIONED MATTER, THAT RECIPIENIS FURNISH THE IDENTITIES

OF CASE AGENT(S) IN THE UNITED KLANS OF AMERICA (UKA)

INVEST IGAT ION FOR THE PERIOD OF JANUARY, 1967 THROUGH

DECEMBER 31, 1968; ALSO TO FURNISH THE CURRENT STATUS

OF THE AGENT OR AGENTS AND THEIR LOCATION, IF KNOWN.

ATLANTA REVIEWED ITS FILE FOR THE UKA (157-193)

AND

ALPHERCL

Tuares peo

5825208174231

EX-101

RECAR: 62-112290-563

₴

a 20 1978

=У.

110-84

sa ==

58 APR 1 01978

WW 55061 DocId:32989751 Page 8

Spimacpke

''reten

---

## Page 9

Fr

PAGE-TWO

AT (66-2242

UNCLAS

NOTED THE FOLLOWING RELATIVE TO THE CASE AGENTS) IN

THE UKA INVESTIGATION DURING. THE PERIOD JANUARY, 1967 -

DECEMBER 31, 1968:

AS OF JANUARY 1, 1967, IO JULY 2D, 196.7 - FORMER

• SPECIAL AGENT RICHARD HAMILTON - RETIRED - CURRENTLY

RESIDES AT 5820 KAYRON DRIVE, NORTHEASI, ATLANTA, GEORGIA,

TELEPHONE NUMBER 404-255-2353.

JULY 2D, 1967., TO MARCH 8, 1968 - SPECIAL AGENT

JAMES J. ROSE, CURRENTLY ASSIGNED TO THE NEW YORK FBI

OFF ICE.

MARCH 8, 1968, TO DECEMBER 9, 1968 - FORMER SPECIAL

AGENT RICHARD HAMILTON.

DECEMBER 9, 1968, IO DECEMBER 31, 1968 - FORMER

SPECIAL AGENT CARL E. CLAIBORNE, RETIRED, LAST KNOWN TO

BE RESIDING AT 7840 CEDAR CREST ROAD, KNOXVILLE, TENNESSEE

379810

BT

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 9

---

## Page 10

LAO 341 08392357

RR HQ

DE LA

R 240235Z MAR 78

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Crim. Inv._

ident,

Intol.

Labora'ory

FI LOS ANGELES (62-7841)

C TO DIRECTOR (62-117299)

24 MAR78 07. 38z

RESCITEE

(6) FEDAL 3UF.EAL

OF

COMMUNIC, TIONS SECTION

ROUTINE

BT

Tech. Servs,

Training

Pub'ic Affs. Off.

Telephone Rm.

Director's Sec'y

UNG AS

AT TN: CONGRESSIDNAL INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION.

GOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA) , BUDED MARCH

24, 1978.

5y0

RE BUREAU TELETYPE TO ATLANTA DATED MARCH 21, 1978.

SA JOHN C. O'NEILL WAS ASSIGNED TO THE UNITED KLANS

OF AMERICA (UKA) MATTER IN LOS ANGELES IN JANUARY 1967.

THE MATTER WAS REASSIGNED TO SA ALBERT N. CARLBLOM IN JULY

1968. BOTH AGENTS HAVE SINCE RETIRED FROM THE BUREAU AND

RESIDE IN THE GREATER LOS ANGELES AREA.

4-

BI

EX.106

RECAZ

62-111 290-562

P2 MAñ ÷O 1978

7*%

and die bartmone

11:10-86

Spimacpake.

83% APR 1 0.1978

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751 Page 10

CC

---

## Page 11

н.

029

P

TELETYPE

ROUTINE

CLEAR

EM DIRECTOR (62-117290)

MARCH 17, 1978

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: D. 0. Coulson

1 - Mr. Foster

TO ATLANTA

BT

ROUTINE

CLEAR

OHOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA).

IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTIGATION BY THE HSCA INTO THE ASSASSINATION

OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., STAFF MEMBERS OF THE ESCA HAVE REQUESTED

TO INTERVIEW SPECIAL, AGENT RICHARD D. RACKLEFE OF THE ATLANTA OFFICE.

THE COMMITTEE HAS ADVISED THAT AN ESTIMATED TIME FOR THE INTERVIEW

IS 30 MINUTES AND DESIRES INTERVIEW TAKE PLACE ON MONDAY, MARCH 20,

1978, IN ATLANTA. TWO HSCA INVESTIGATORS, FLOYD REEVES AND ROBERT

WALKER, WILL, CONTACT RACKLEFE AT THE ATLANTA OFFICE ON MARCH 20, 1978,

TO ARRANGE FINAL, INTERVIEW DETAILS.

RACKLETE HAS BEEN RELEASED FROM HIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT AND IS

AUTHORZZED TO PARTICTATEIEY ISCA INZERVE-Y

WAS CONDUCTED TELEPHONICALLY ON MARCH 16, 1978.

FOLLOWING INTERVIEW,

ZA MAR 21 1978 ,

Assoc. Die. _

Dop. AD Am - OILL

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

/NTA: amo pil

Adn. Serv..

(5)

Crim. Inv..

Fin. & Perso a

Ident. -

Intell.

Laboratory _

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp.-

Roc, Mgni. -

Spec. Inv. -

Toch, Servs.-

7 1978

Director's Sechy

NW 55061

MAIL ROOM L

DocId: 32989751 Page 11

TELETYPE UNIT E

SEE NOTE, PAGE. TWO?

1J.:--

H3)P

COME 1-97109

11!26

'R.

19/8

17552771-

Attend on boa

I.121-10-86

annaspace.

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 12

ma..

.

=

PAGE TWO (62-117290)

CLEAR

RACKLEFE SHOULD SUBMIT LETTERHEAD MEMORANDUM CONTAINING BRIEF SUMMARY

OF INTERVIEW. FORWARD TO FBIHQ BY COVER AIRTEL, ATTENTION CONGRESSIONAL

INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION.

BT

361357

NOTE: By letter dated 12-20-77, the HSCA requested interview of Rackleff:

Representatives of Legal Liaison and Congressional Affairs Unit and

Congressional Inquiry Unit have no objection to interview being conducted

in Atlanta, although all previous HSCA interviews of current employees

have been conducted at HSCA offices in Washington, D. C. SA D. 0.

Coulson of Legal Liaison and Congressional Affairs Unit conducted.

briefing of Rackleff.

Teletype confirms telephone conversation

with Rackieff on 3-16-78, following clearance with ASAC Edmund J.:

Pistey on 3-15-78.

#.

WW 55061

DooId: 32989751

Page 12

---

## Page 13

Assistant Attorney General EEDERAL GOVERNMENK

Criminal DivisIon

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

March 3, 1978

HOUSE SELECT CONMITTLE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Mr. Bailey

1 - Legal Counsel

Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

Ir., requested copies of certain material In the files of

FBI Headquarters.

Enclosed are the original and one copy of a

memorandum in response to the above request, and it 1s

reguested you give a copy of the enclosed memorandum to

HSCA.

Enclosures (2)

ATL TE

I:'

and do Viruse

D. 121-10-86

Lid

i Spinaemke

NOTE: ISCA representative to whom the material was delivered

Is. Gale Oppenberg.

2

ENCLOSURE

pc

EX-113

R8632 62-117290-560

2. MAR 20 1978

INTA

Assoc. Dir._

Dep. AD Adh. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

MAILED 14

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Pers. -

Ident.

MAR 3 - 1978

EBL

Intell.,

Laboratory -

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Ree Mgn% -

Spee, Inv.

Tech.

Servs,-

Training -

Public Affs. Off._

5g

Telephone Rm. -

•R5

Director, s. Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM -1

19/ TELETYPE UNIT L

55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 13

25L05 0e

MIL COuL

Rm 3658

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 14

1 - Mr. Foster

1

- Mr. Bailey

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

March 3, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney

General fron G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director,

AscA, dated february 21, 1978, which, in connection with

ASGA's Investigation into the the assassination of

Ines tell into

requested copies of certain

materia interes fi readquarters espectrically,

the ASCA requested dellvery of information pertaining

to a speech by J. B. Stoner and copies of the "rhunderbolt,"

the monthly publication of the National States Rights Partys

for the months April through October, 1968.

This letter 1s to confirm that the above-mentioned

naterial pertaining to a speech by J. B. Stoner (FBI Head-

quarters file 157-97-122) was delivered to a representative

of the HSCA

on March 1, 1978.

Copies of the "thunderbolt,"

as mentioned above, were provided to a representative of

the HSCA on March 3, 1978.

This letter completes response to HSCA request

dated February 2T, 1978.

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH.

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated

3/3/78, captioned,

"House Select Committee on Assassinations,

S. House of Representatives (HSCA)."

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD AdMa.

Dep. AD Inv. --

Asst. Dir.:

Crim. Inv. ==

Fin. & Perso =

Ident. -

Intelle -z

Laboratory -

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp. -

Rec Mgnt. _

Spec. Invo mee

Toch. Servs._

Training-

Public Affs. Off_

Telephone Rm. -

Diréctor's Sec'y =

NW 55061

!!:

ITT TA

it 62-117270-560

NEURTYPE UNT ENGLOSURE

MAIL ROOM

DocId: 32989751

Page 14

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 15

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER. N.C.

SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO

WALTER I. FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE DRATHWAITE BUHKE, CALIFO

CHRISTOPHER S, DODO, CONY.

CHAIY

HARL

D'ONE, NEDR.

SAWYER, MICH.

HAHOLO E. FORES, FENNA

FLOTO J. FITHIAN, IND.

L TONERNEY. EDGAR, FA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on grosassinations

U.5. House of Representatives

$331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

FE8 2 7 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the

• United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20430

:

Dear Mr: Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the death of Di. Martin Luther King, JI:, it is reguested

that the FBI provide the Committee with a copy of the follow-

ing materials on an expedite basis:

1. Serial 122, Section 4, References on J. B. Stoner

2. Copies of the Thunderbolt monthly magazine for

April, May, June, July and October 1968.

Your prompt attention to these matters will be greatly

appreciated.

Very truly yours,

8. Pobus Blahe

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

C

CC:

Danny 0. Coulson

- GRB :mek

6 71 117-70-560

1N7"5503T Docta: 32989751 Page" 15"

---

## Page 16

Assistant Attorney General FEDERAT GOVERNANS

Criminal Division

Attention: Hir. Robert I. Keuch

Director,

FBI

March 8, 1978

1 - Mr. Bailey

I - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel

Division

Attn: Mr.

Coulson

HOUSE SELECT CONNINTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

444

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

March 7, 1978, which, in connection with ESCA's Investigation

into the assassination of Hartin Luther King, Jr., requested

that certain documents

from FBI Headquarters files concerning

Willlam Hugh Morris be delivered to the ESCA.

Enclosed are original and one copy of a memorandum

In response to the above request. It is requested that you

furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the SCA.

Enclosures

(2) 032

Z

NOTE: By letter dated 1/9/78, HSCA requested access to all

material in FBIHQ files concerning Morris, a former leader

of the Federated Knights of the Ku Klux Klan in Alabama.

By letter and memorandum dated 2/17/78, the HSCA was advised

that material concerning Morris was available for access at

FBIHQ.

on 3/7/78, the HSCA requested expeditious delivery of

the items listed in its request of 3/7/78.

T66 2-22120-559

EX-110

PA. MAR 21 1978

Assoc. Dir. —

Dep. AD Adm. ==

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Sorv. -

Crim. Inv. -

Fin. & Perso -

ident. -

Intell. -

Laboratory.

Legal Coun. -i

Plan. & Insp. =

„Rec Mgnt. →

Spoc. Inv. →

Tech. Servs._

Training

Publid

-*.

Telepho

Rm.

Director's Sec'y

NW 55061

MAILED 14

MAR 8 - 4978

MAID ROOM I

DocId: 32989751

FBI

ALL INFOY 290T MAMATHED

CONC.::1000S

1: 4,71

TELETYPE UNIT E

Page 16

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 17

7.

1 - Mr. Bailey

- Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

March 8, 1978

HOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney

King, Jr., requested delivery of certain material Irom

FBI Headquarters (FBIHQ) files concerning Willfam Hugh Morris.

By letter from Mr. Blakey dated January 9, 1978, the

ISCA requested access to all information concerning Morris

In files of TBIHQ. This material was prepared and, by

memorandum dated

February 17, 1978, the HSCA was advised.

This letter is to confirm that material requested

In the above HSCA letter of March 7, 1978; was delivered

to HSCA representative Gale Oppenberg on March 7, 1978,

at FBIHQ. This letter completes response to referenced

HSCA request.

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT I. KEUCH.

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Attention: Mr. Robert u. Keuch, dated

3/8/78, captioned

Criminal DivisIOn House Select Committee on Assassinations,

U. S. House of Representatives (HSCA) •

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adh.-

Dep. AD Inv. =

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _

Crim. Iny. -

Fin. & Pers. _

Idento =

Intoll..

Laboratory =

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp. -

Roc Mgni. -e

Spece Inv. _

Tech. Servs.==

Training.

===

Public Affs. Off.-

Telephone Rm. -

Diroctor's Sec'y-

MAIL ROOM

NW 55061

DooId: 32989751

TELETYPE UNIT O

Page 17

I.

Dead i 1=10-8.10

pinacinte

ENCLOSURE

FBI/DOS

---

## Page 18

LOUIS sTOXES, 8440, 886-89838218

RICHARD ON POET: N, N.C.

МОМ МАТОК КС слиї

fr1л'e 1,57

CUMISTONHIN S. LIGH", CONN

MAPOLO E. PORA, PEPlilo

FLOYDJ.BITHIA8, 1475).

HODIRT H. SUGAH, TA.

.$/?/18

(202) 224-1624

Steit Committee on Assassinations

I.E. Mouse of Ricuresentatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE DUILDING. ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

• March 7, 1978

The Honorable Griffin 3. Bell

Attorney General. of the

United States

Department of Justice

washington, D. C.

20530

Attention:

lir. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by the Committee

into the death of Us. Martin Luther King, JI., It is requestec

that the FBI deliver to the committee the following documents

•from the files already prepared for review by the Committee

pertaining to Hillian Hugh liorris:

1. HUA Hearings References: Activities of KKK,

.89th Congress 2nd Session Part 4

a. p. 3398 - 10 page letter detailing MLK assassi~

nation offer for $25,000, planned attempt at

Antioch College pages 5397-3410

b. p. 3411 - Stephens

testimony re: letter

3411-5412

c: P: 3133 - Reference to Morris invoivement

with obtaining @ynamite pagea 3431-3436

15?

2: Referenses - 189-168-106 CP pages. 1,2,3,6, 15,40

3.

BuFile 57-165-39: Office File 165-149

Reporting Office:

Atlanta

Title:

Federated

KKK Inc.

2p+ paged1-5

2/20/62 Report of

SA Carl Claiborne

(remark: by Norris regarding ki. ling of MLK)

4.

157-1300 (unrecord serial) ficate 157-4340-5 (mcing)

Memo from E. J. Baumgaraner to

consents of 2 prese

w. C. Sullivan, 2/10/66

in Mau.", tü?? ait

11,52 Lu

1. Richiger 559

02.1177/95

NW 55061 DocId:32989751 Page 18

---

## Page 19

. "5.

157-3815-6 8/26/65 report from Cincinnati

(materials mentioning.occon to kill MLK)

CP+ pages E, F, 12,19, 25,31

It is requested that the foregoing materials be prepared

on an expedite basis.

It is further requested that the FBI provide the HSCA

a copy of any arrest record for william lugh Morris as

as possible.

Your prompt attention to these matters is greatly appre-

ciated.

Very truly yours:

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB : mea

WW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 19

---

## Page 20

- Mr. Long - Enc.

- Mr. Foster - Enc.

- Mr. Mintz - Enc.

2 - Mr. Coulson - Enc.

karch 14x 1973

FINDERAI GOVERNERE

The Deputy Attorney General

Director, FlI

HOUSE STEECH COUNTIER I ASSASSINATIOUS

In accordance with Attorney Goneral Order

116-56, this monorantum navines that Spocial Agont

Thomas j. lilson of the Cleveland Ficla Cffico was

Interviered on Fobiuary 24, 1978. A rarorandur setting

forth Iis. Wilson's account of this intorviet in enclosel

for your infornation.

Enclosure

913

- 1:10-84

formagance

1 - nosistant Attorney General - Enclosure

Crininal Division

Atth: Robert Keuch

1 - Personnel file - Thomas J. Wilson - Enclosure

EX-114

MAILED 3

62-1172220

- 558

1973

MAR 1 6 1978

ÀỲ MAR

FBI

APPROVED:

Director

Assoc. DiF.

Dep. AD Adm. _

Dep..AD Inv..

Adm. Serv.

Crim. Inv.

Legal Cour

Plan, & Insp

Ident.

Nec Men.

Intell.

Tech. Servs.

Laboratory

Training

=*==

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dira:

Adm. Servs.

Crim. Inv.

Ident. -

Intell. -

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt. -

- DOC: 1dr

Tech. Servs. =

Training

(10,5

Public Alfs. Off. =

elephone l

107"

MATE ROOM,

WW 55061 DocId: 12919/51

Page 20

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 21

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

AttentIon: Mr. Robert I. Reuch

Director, FBI

IS COVEIRHNNS

2-13-78

1 - Mr.. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn:

Mr. Coulson

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

384, 413

387,388,

Reference Is made to the letter to the Attorney General from

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director,, ESCA, dated 1-17-78,

which requested, in connection with the HSCA'S investigation into the

assassination of Martin Luther Ring, Jr., access to certain information

in the files of FBI Headquarters.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum in

response to the above request.. It Is requested that you furnish a copy

of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

Enclosures (2)

2 - ENCLÖSURE

ATL INFOTATION! CONTAINED

ERIN IN UNULAROINTED

REG 562-112290-5477X

14. MAR 2'8 1978 #

Dep. AD Adh.

Dep. AD Inv. JUTA: amo

Asst. Dir.:

(5)

Adm. Serv. m

Crim. Invo _

Fin, & Perso _

1973

Intell. -

Laboratory =

Legal Coun. -

Plon. & insp. =

Rec. Mgnt. -

Spec. Inv..

FEB

NW

Telephor

Director's

55061

APR 12. 197

DocId: 32989751

SEE NOTE, PAGE THO

MA.

Rim 3658

Pader

TELETYPE UNIT C

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 22

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: Item 2 of referenced HSCA letter was not interpreted as a request

for Field Office files from all our offices in California, but rather

for information reported to FBI Headquarters in the security investigation

of King. The HSCA's amended request of 1-30-78, covers the full period

of time desired in its request of 1-17-78.

- 2 -

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 22

---

## Page 23

1 - Mr. Foster

I - Legal Counsel Division.

Attn: Mr. Coulson

ALL IT"

AT CATARIED

I alone.-

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ESSASSINATIONS

U.S. HOUSE OF: REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

February 13, 1978

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney General from

Go. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated January 17,

1978, which requested, in connection with the ESCA's Investigation into

the assassination of Martin Luther King, JI., access to certain Information

in the files of FBI Headquarters (FBIHQ). Specifically, this letter

requested material and information concerning the John Birch Society,

the American Independent Party, the George Wallace Campaign, and the

activities of Martin Luther Ring, Jí., In California during the period

1967 to 1968.

This nenorandum is to advise that material in response to Item

I of referenced letter regarding the John Birch Society and the American

Independent Party has been processed and is available for uscs review at

FBIHQ. Where Information is not available, it is either not, retrievable

or is not being furnished pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding.

FBIHQ files contain no identifiable information concerning the George

Wallace Campaign.

With regard to Item?, you were previously advised by FBI

memorandum dated January 18; 1978, that FBIHQ files pertaining to the

security investigation of Martin luther King, Jr, for the period

January: I, 1967, to May I, 1968; were available for HSCA access at

FBIHQ.. These files also include results of the FBI's investigation of

King's activities in the State of California. By request dated January 30;.

1978, the ESCA expanded its earlier request for Ring security material

to include the periods October 1, 1962, to December 31, 1966, and frow

May 1, 1968,

to April 1,'1969

This material. Is currently being processed

and upon. completion. the HSCA will be advised.

This letter completes response to referenced ESCA letter.

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Ach. -

Dep. AD Inv. —

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Sorv. _

Crim. Inv. -

Fin. & Pers.

ident. =

Intell..

Laboratory —

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt.-

Spec. Inv..

Toch. Servs. —

Training

Publie Affs. Off._

Telephono Rm. =3

Director's Sec'y-

PWW 55061

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,, CRIMINAL DIVISION,

ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH.

NOTE:

See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General, Criminal

Division, Attention:

Mr. Robert, L, Keuch, dated 2-13-10, captioned

"House Select Committee on Assassinations, U: iS.?' House of Representatives

(HSCA) •

ITA: ano ano

(5)

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT O

62-117-290-5401X

ENCLOSURE.

DocId: 32989751

Page 23

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 24

LEIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIMMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL L. E

WALTER I. FAUNTROY, D.G.

YVONNE DRATHWAITE DURKI, CALIP.

CHMISTOPHER 3. DOOD, CONN.

HAROLO E. FORO, TENN.

ROBERT W. LOGAR, FA.

• 0H1O

INNEY. CONN.

Al MIlle

WYER, MICH.

(202) 225-4524

Select Committee on Essassinations

El.5. Mouse of Ziepresentatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

January 17, 1978

GRB: mkd

CC:

NW. 55061 DocId: 32989751

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

•Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation of the House

Select Committee on Assassinations into the death of DI.

• make available

1. All files, materials and information including,

but not limited to, intelligence and security

materials relating

to the following organiza-

tions active in California for 1967-1969:

a) John Birch Society

b) American Independent Party

George Wallace Campaign

2.

but nite i'mater

All files, materials and information, including,

out not limited to, intelligence, surveillance

and security materials for 1967-1968 pertaining

to DI. Martin Luther King, Jr: and his activi-

ties in California.

Your prompt attention to the request will be greatly

appreciated.

Danny 0. Coulson

Respectfully,

12. Robut Slakey

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

62-11/290-

547X

ENCLOSURE

Page 24

---

## Page 25

1 - Legal Counsel Division

(Attn: D. O. Coulson)

1 - Mr. G. J. Foster

February 13, 1978

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Director, FBI

FEDERAL GOVERNIENT

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

(HSCA)

10310

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

January 24, 1978, which requested information and copies of certain

material from FBI Headquarters files in connection with the HSCA's

investigation into the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum

with an attachment in partial response to the above request. It is

requested that you furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum and

its attachment to the HSCA.

Enclosures - 4

62-117290

(5)

62-117290-547

NOTE: The HSCA reques Red

expeditious response concerning

sections 86 and 87 of the MURKIN file. Information con-

cerning item s of reterenced roCA letter is being processed and ,

upon completion will be delivered to HSCA.

EB. MAR 28 1978

OSUr

KNE!

1978

Assoc. Dir. me

Dep. AD Adh. -

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. →

Crim. Inv. -

Fin. & Pers. -

3

Ident.

Intell.

Laboratory =

Legal Count.

Plan. & Insp. =

Roc Mgnt. →

Spec. Inv: _

.58APR 131978

Telephone Rm. -

Director's See'y -

55061

MAIL ROOM

ocTa: 3296975

MR. COUSIN

Pm 3655

TELETYPE UNIT L

Page 25

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 26

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: D. O. Coulson

1 - Mr. G. J. Foster

ATL. I'

di hardobalated

DI. 1010-84

February 13, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

January 24, 1978, which requested information and copies of certain

material from FBI Headquarters files in connection with the HSCA*s

investigation into the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.

In response to Item 1 of the above request, it is noted

that a copy of the composite drawing of "Ralph" was furnished to

HSCA staff member Robin Lindley on January 25, 1978. This com-

posite drawing appears in section 86, serial 6112, of the FBI's King

assassination investigation (MURKIN), rather than section 86,

serial 6068; as stated in referenced letter,

Enclosed is an attachment which contains one copy each

of sections 86 and 87 of FBI Headquarters file in the MURKIN inves-

tigation.

This is in response to Item 2 of referenced letter. Where

information is not provided, it is either not retreivable from FBI

Headquarters files or is not being furnished in accordance with the

Memorandum of Understanding.

Regarding Item 3, information concerning Percy Foreman

is being processed and will be delivered to the HSCA upon completion.

With respect to Item 4, the following Agents were assigned

to Legal Attache Offices during the period 1967 - 1969: John Thomas

Assoc. Dir. = =

Minnich (deceased), London; Norman Walter Philcox, Paris; Moss Lee

Dep. AD Adh. =

Dép. AD Inv. -

Innes, Ottawa; Nathan I. Ferris, Mexico City.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. -

Crim. Inv. =-

Regarding Item 5, a review of pertinent records at FBI

Fin. & Perso _-

Headquarters disclosed no record that Frank Raval Legis, Martin

Ident. =

Bishop and Lee Leland are serving or have ever served as Special

Intell. —

L'aboratory=-

Agents of the FBI.

Legal Cour. --

Ento let Ale CD 9-13->8

Plan. & Insp. =

62-117290

Rec Mgnton

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT

Tech. Servs. —1

UTA:fj"

Training =

(5)

ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL DIVI-

SION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L.

Public Affs. Off.=

KEUCH

Telephone Rm.

Director's Secy -

MAIL ROOM

COLETYPE UNIT CO

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

ENCLOSURE

ReuM

55061

DocId: 32969751

Page 26

2-117290-5477

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 27

House Select Committee on Assassinations

U. S. House of Representatives (HSCA)

For additional information of the Department of Justice

and the HSCA, in response to HSCA letter dated December 15,

1977, which requested dates of FBI electronic surveillance of

Martin Luther King, Jr., and the Southern Christian Leadership

Conference (SCLC), FBI memorandum dated January 26, 1978, was

submitted. This memorandum, page 3, disclosed that telephone

surveillance of the SCLC office in Atlanta was conducted from

November 8, 1963, to June 21, 1965. The correct dates of this

surveillance should be November 8, 1963, to June 21, 1966.

Enclosures - 2

NOTE:

See letter to the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal

Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L, Keuch, dated

2/13/78, captioned as above.

- 2 -

TE 4000000.

ManTA: 92989751

Page 27

---

## Page 28

€ 26

P-

TELETYPE

ROUTINE

CLEAR

MARCH 21, 1978

1 - Mr. G. J. Foster

FM DIRECTOR (62-137290)

1 - Legal

Counsel Division

(Attn: Mr. D. O. Coulson"

TO ATLANTA

1 - Mr. Aldhizer

BIRMINGHAM

CHICAGO

LOS ANGELES

MEMPHIS

NEW ORLEANS

(

Hit

BT

CLEAR

HOUSE. SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA).

• *I

BUDED MARCH 24, [978.

IN CONNECTION WITH ITS INVESTIGATION INTO THE

ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., THE HSCA DESIRES TO

IDENTIFY AND POSSIBLY LATER INTERVIEW CASE AGENT(S) WHO

HANDLED INVESTIGATION OF THE UNITED KLANS OF AMERICA (UKA)

DURING 1967-1968 IN THE ABOVE OFFICES.

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adh. ==

Dep. AD Inv. --

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. -

Crim. inv..

Fin. & Perso:

Ident. =

Intell.

Laboratory-

Legal Coun. =

Plan. & Insp. =

Rec Mgnt. -

Spec. Inv. —=:

Tech. Servs.-=

Training -

Publiç Affs. Oft

IN RESTONE

X-10 REC-70 10225

REC-70

62-11 290-

RECIPTENTS FURNISH

IDENTITIES OF CASE AGENT(S) IN UKA INVESTIGATION FOR PERIOD

2FIl

JTA :pfm

(6) SEE NOTE PAGE 3

23. MAR 22 1978

51l4. 11

ÈDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIO

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAR 221978

TELETYPÉ

INTER

55061

1978

MAIL ROOM

DocId: 32989751

TELETYPE UNIT O

Page 28

DA1EJ-10-86

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 29

PAGE TIO CLEAR

JANUARY 1, 1967, THROUGH DECENBER 31, 1968. INCLUDE

APPROXINATE TINE PERIODS IF HONE TIAN ONE AGENT WAS

ASSICITED UKA CASE AND CURRENT STATUS AID LOCATION OF

AGENT: IF KNOWN .

SUBMIT RESULTS BY TELETYPE TO IBIHO ATTENTIONI:

CONGRESSICAL: INNUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MAITAGEMENT DIVISION,

BY MARCH 24, 1978.

IN™ 55061

DocId: 32989751 Page 29

---

## Page 30

PAGE THREE CLEAR

NOTE: HSCA Staff Attorney Peter Beeson Made above request

on March 20, 1978.

HSCA anticipates interviewing selected

Agents and;

following receipt of fleld responses, will

Identify in a written request those to be interviewed.

2:22

NH 55061.. DocId: 32989751 Page 30

---

## Page 31

1?.

EDERAL COVDRUNEXS

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Reuch

Director, FBI

March 17, 1978

1 - Mr. Bailey

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn:

Mr. Coulson

1 - Mr. G. J.

Foster

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ASCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General.

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, MSCA, dated

February 23, 1978, which requested, in connection

with: the

ESCA's investigation into the assassination of Martin Iuther

King, JI., access to all information regarding James Hubert Posey,

Edward Redditt and Buford Posey®

In addition, the iSCA requested

delivery of certain correspondence to J. Edgar Hoover; FD-302's

of Charles Joseph Stein, Rita Stein, and Marie Martin; and that

three FBI Special Agents be made available for interview.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum

In response to the above request.

It is requested that you

furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the ISCA.

Enclosures (2) / - ENCLOSURE

PEMM

(INB: pEm

(5)

62-117290

5

197

By memorandum dated March 9, 1978, the current offices

"of assignment and/or last known addresses of Agents. and former

Agents, listed in HSCA letter dated February 22, 1978, were

sibistine.

set forth and approval was obtained to clear them from their

employment agreements +EX-I14

contact them regarding interview

REG46 62-112290-539

Arrangements for these interviews are handled

Assoc Die informally by representatives of the Legal Liasion and

Hos,A Congressional Affairs Unit and the Congressional Inquiry int

Asst lors of FBI Headquarters.

11 MAR 21 1978

Additionally, all retrievable information requested in

Idens. — this HSCA letter was turned over to staff member Jim Conzelman

Inselle -on March 9, 1910.

Laboratory

Legal Coun. ==

Plan. & Insp. =

This letter and memorandum completes our response to

Roc Met this request of the HSCA.

Spee. Inv..

Tech. Servs. =

re

Training

Public Affs. Off.=

Telephone Rm. =

1LU

55

19179 ROOM

DocId: 32989751

age

31

DATE 1.10-94

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 32

38.

1 - Mr. Bailey

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Aten: Mr. Coulson

1 - Mr. G. J.

Foster

ATT I'

March 17, 1978

DitE1-10-86

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

General from G. Hobert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director,

HoGA, dated February 23, 1978, which requested, in connection

with

the HSCA's investigation Into the assassination of

Martin Luther King, Jf.

certain Information In the files of

FBI Headquarters (FBIHQ). Specifically, this letter requestea

access to all information on James Hubert Posey

Edward Redditt and Buford Posey.

Marie Martin.

Lastly, the Committee requested that Special Agents

Earl E. Brown, Albert Rushing, and Howard C. Kennedy be made

available for interview.

This memorandum 1s to advise that the requested

information on

Edward Redditt was delivered to Mr. Jim Conzelman

of the HSCA on March 9, 1978. A search revealed "no record"

for information on James Hubert Posey and Buford Posey.

As requested, contained in the documents delivered

to Mr. Conzelman were four (4) Western Union telegrams addressed

to J. Bagar Hoover from Joel P. Keene, as well as FD-302'g Of

charles Joseph Stein, Rita Stein, and Marie Martin,

Inis memorandum is also to confirm that the Agents

and former Agents. of the FBI, as listed In the above-mentioned

ASCA letter, have been cleared from their employment agreements

Assoc. Dir. and are available for interview as needed by the HSCA.

Dep. ADAd Arrangements for Interview can be made through contact with rep-

be aD" resentatives of the Legal Ilasion and Congressional Affairs

Adm. Sew. Unit and the Congressional Inquiry Unit of FBIHQ.

Crim. Inv. -i

Where Information is not provided, It is because 1t 1s

unt. not retrievable or Is not being fumished pursuant to the

Labortory. - Memorandum of Understanding,

Legal Coun

Plan, & Insp. -62-117290

Roc Hot T

Spec. Invo.

Tech. Servs. &l

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

Publicits orORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

Director's Sec'y-

DIVIST

TYPE UNT ON: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

ENCLOSURE 62-112290-530

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 33

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. 'S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

NOTE:

letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Mr. Robert I. Keuch, dated

March 17, 1978, captioned as above.

(2)

IREW

14: 000

100x6032989751

Page 33

---

## Page 34

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

March 3s 1978

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

415,414,442

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey dated January 26, 1978, which, in

connection with the HSCA's Investigation into the assassination

of Martin Luther king,

Erom Pilea of MBI Headquartersqueated certain Information

Enclosed ate an original and one copy of a memorandum

In partial response to the above request. It is requested that

you furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to HSCA.

Enclosures (2)

NOTE: Regarding Item 48, subfiles for the Jacksonville and

Miami Offices on the United Klans of America are being made

available to HSCA.

Also provided are files concerning the

United Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, United Florida Ku Klux Klan,

and the Militant Knights of the Ku

klux klan, all of which were

active in Florida during the pertinent period

requested by

the HSCA.

2 ENCLOSURE

REC-46

Ex+14 62-117290-536

2 MAR 20 1978

Assoe. Dir.-

Dep. AD Acho. -

AS DIS

AD Inv. =

Grim. Inv. -

*Fin. & Perso -

Ident. -

Intell. -

Laborator e

Legal Coùn.

Plan. & Insp. -

Reco Migrito -

Spec. Inv. _e

Tech. Servs

Troining-

Public Affs.

Telephone Rm.

(50

risi

MAILED 14

MAR 3 - 1978.

5061

197800N

DocId: 32989751

F..

IX2

'Simacake

W3P 32H100

00N041

PRISHY:

the

TELETYPE UNIT O

Page 34

3658

FBI/D!

---

## Page 35

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

March 3, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMUITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

the assassination of Martin Luther King, Ji. (Murkit),

requested certain information Irom files of fBI. Headquarters

(BIHa• Specifically under fart 8, this letter listed

50 Items concerning organizations and individuals of

interest to the HSCA.

regarding the following items has been processed and ls

available for HSCA access at FBIHQ. Where information 1s

furnished pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding-

Item 2 - Lester Lee, CrOss

Item 6 - Sidney Barnes.

ATIT

Item 9 - Thomas Iarrants

Item 14 - Joseph Conforto

Item 23 - Roy Emory Hargraves

Item 48 - Klan organizations of Jacksonville

and Mami, Florida, for the period

1966 through 1968

Other than references in the FBI's MURKIN

• investigation, no identiflable Information could be located

Assoc. Dir. —

Dep. AD Act. -

In FBIHQ files, Including the Identification Division,

¡Dep. AD Inv. -

concerning the below Individuals. These NURKIN references

Asst. Dir.:

•Adm. Serv. -

are avallable for MSCA access at FBIHQ.

Crim. Inv..

Fin. & Pers. -

Ident. -

Insoll. -

L'aboratory -

Legal Cour. -

Plan. & Insp.-

Rec Mgnt. _=

Spec. Inv. -

Item 17 - Dr- Russell C. Hadley

Item 19 - Dr. Mark 0. Freeman

ORIGINAL AND TWO SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

DIVISION

ATTENTION:

MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH.

Tech. Servse_

Training -

Publie Affs. Off.=

Telephöne Rm. -

Director's Sec'y=

MAIL ROOM

SEE NOTE PAGE THREE

TELETYPE UN FENGLOSURE 62-117290-536

35061

DocId: 32989751

Rage

MATHIN

Dormacace

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 36

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal DivisIOn

Attention: fir. Robert I. Keuch

Iton 37 - Debbie Gold

Iter: 39 - Roverend Xavier Von Ross

Central files of FBINQ contain no identifiable

information concerning the following individual.

Howeyer,

a record concerning this individual was located in files

of the Identification Division of the IBI and this record

is avallable for HSCA access at FBIHQ.

Iten 8 - Eddie Sopejack,

Central files of FBIIIQ contain no identiflable

Information concerning the below listed Individuals. However.

records, which may be identical with these Individuals, were

located

in the Identification Division of the FBI and are

available for HSCA access at FBIFQ-

Item 4 - Earnost Donnell

Item 21 - Rodnoy Artidson

Iten 22 - Tomas Reyes Lau

Item 24 - Raynond Ii. Murphy, also Inown as "Fido"

Iten 27 - Paul Ivon

Iter 30 - Pat Olson

Item 46 - Pamola Dillon

Files of FBIIQ, Including records of the Identifleation

DivIsion, contain no identifiable information concerning

the following individuals.

Iten 7 - "Taxey Ted"

Item 10 - Samuel Caccanechi

Item 15 - Leonard Seott Delfonte

Item 26 - Roman Kohnke

-2-

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 36

---

## Page 37

Assistant Attorney denerel

Grininal Division

Attention: Hr. Robert I. Keuch

Iten 29 - Fonald &. Heritson

Iton 32 = Ronald Dennino

Iten 36 - Illzabeth An De Rouen

Item 40 - Robert Harold Gray

Iten 41 - Robert Keeley

Iten 44 - Goorge l'anum

Files of FBIHQ contain no identifiable Information

concerning the following Individual end,

due to the lack of

Identifyins data,

a soarch of records of the Identification

Division could not be conducted.

Itcm 38 - David GrOEOrY

lach respeat to lion 500o, the spora, and Item 50(a):

nho unite Carella, no identifiable Infornation within the poriod

of Isch Interest could bo located in files of IBIld.

The processins of Information concerninr, the remaining

1tema In the HSCA letter of Jenuary 26, 1978, is continuing

and the ceA will bo advised unon its completion.

NOIE: See Director, FBl, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert l. heuch, dated

"House Select Committee on Assassinations,

(HSCA).

-3-

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 37

---

## Page 38

on éfo..

ViALTEM L. BO9'PO"06,10.6.

ACNNE: S10X8.9, 81010, CHASHIRRI

SAMUEL I..

•. Oslo

89114T8

INPAY, CONNE.

CIAOLLS TIRE

-. 818 1111.

1810109.54Y41, ACH.

1690108808-1OH3: 78918.

80080888.40511.89.

(202) 225-1528

Eclect Committee on Assassinations

Cla. House of Zicpresentatives

S331 H0US1: OFFICE DUILDING. GNNIX 2

WASHINGTON, 12.C. 20515

January 26, 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washingion, D. C. 20530

: Attention: Roberi: i. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal. Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with this Comnittee's investigation of

the circumstances surrounding the assassination of Dr. Martin

Luther king, It., we would appreciate your assistance in

obtaining access to any files or records in the possession

of the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Federal Bureau

of investigution, relating to the individuals and organizations

noted below:

A. With respect to the Dug Enforcement Administration:

1)

charles roseph stein

Date of Birth:

5/11/29

FBi, Number:

881-534-B

B.

Born:

Residenco: New Orleans

With respect to the federal Bureau of Investigation:

3.)

cack Brown

Chattanooga, Tennessee

27

3)

Lester lee Cross

Date of Birth: 2/23/15

B.S.N.:

JFK Act

2165 or 2155 Clarksdals

Memphis, Tennessee

Hunte: Pitts O'Dell

Fooleans, Louisina

62-117290

- 536

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 38

---

## Page 39

+ Thc Honorabl

January 26,

lagò ?

Tiffin B. Bell

8

5)

Earnest Donnell.

Denham Springs, Louisiana

Robert Delugh, Noborne, Missouri

Head of the Minutemen organization

G)

Sidney Barnes

1378 East Riviera Drive

Mobile, Mlabama (1968)

Maxey Ted"

New Orleans, Louisiana

8)

Eddie Sopcjack'

Date of Birth: 8/14/29

FBI Number: 186-485A

9) Thomas Tarrants

10) Samuel Caccamechi

Menphis, 'rennessee

11)

Robert llood Strader

Lexington, Illinois

12)

Raynond Starns

King David Apartments, Apt. 1

2816 David Drive

Metalie, Louisiana (1968).

13)

Jerome Conforto

New Orleans, Louisiana

14)

Joseph Conforto

New Orleans, Louisiana (now deceased)

15) Leonard Scott DelMonte

1229 North Bronson Street

Los Angeles, California

16) Allan 0. 'Phompson

Date of Birth:

12/25/13

17).

DI. Russcll. C. Hadley

Date of Birth: 8/18/99

96 Moscow Road

Monto Rio, California

-..

NW 55061 DocId:32989751

Page.

39

---

## Page 40

The Honorablc Griffin B. Bell

Tanuary 26, 1978

Fage

18)

James E. Morrison

Los Angeles, California

19) DI. Mark O. Freeman

Beverly Hills, California

20)

Charles Calvin Bookman

Date of Birth:

9/6/13

FBI Number: 892-355

21) Rodney Arviason

Date, of Birth:

1/19/23

Post Office Box 2820

Long Beach, California

22)

Tomas Reyes Lau

Date of Birth: 10/5/23

2017 Lemoyne

Jos Angeles, California

.23)

21)

• 25)

ROY EmorY Hargraves

El Monte, California PArESSEO a

Raymond M. Murphy, aka "rido"

Ios Angeles, California

Lee Wilkinson

Los Angeles, California

26)

27)

28)

Roman Kohnke

Ios Angeles, California

Paul Lyon

Los Angeles, California

Jeri Salkin

Los Angeles, California

29)

Ronald G. Hlewitson

Garden Grove, California

• 30) Pat Olson•

Dite of Birth: 7/21/42

Quantico, Virginia

NW 35061

DocId: 32989751

Page 40

---

## Page 41

in a cined

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

January 26, 1978

Page 4

31)

32)

Robert Taylor, aka Bob Taylor

Los Angeles, California

Ronala Dennino

aka Ronald Gerald Dennino

Inmate at California State Prison

at San Quentin

(1967 - 1968)

33)

34)

Richard Conzales

Los Angeles, California

Roderic Burns Duff

Monrovia, California

1968 President of Los Angeles Chapter

of Citizens Council of America

35) R. J. Weiler

Los Angeles, California

36)

Elizabeth Ann De Rouen

Date of Birth: 2/17/43

SSN:

JEK Act 6 (3)

Los Angeles, California

37)

Debbie Gold

Los Angeles, California

38)

David Gregory

Buena Park, California

39)

Rev. Xavier Von Koss

Hermora Beach, California

40)

Robert Harold Gray

Los Angeles, California

41)

Robert: Keeley

Los Angeles, California

12)

William K. Shearer

ala Bill Sicarer

3%66 Palm

Lemmon Grove, Californic

43) • Robert Wallers

I's Angeles, California

NW 55061 , DocId: 32989751 Page - 41

---

## Page 42

The lionorable Criffin B.

Bell

January 26, 1978

Page 5

44)

15)

George Manum

Los Angeles, California

Robert J. Roe

Beverly Hills; California

4G)

Pamela Dillon

Los Angeles, California.

17)

48)

Frank Macullo

New Orleans, Louisiana

Subfiles and/or investigative reports on

Ku Klux Klan for the cities of Jacksonville

and Miami, Florida for the period 1966.

through 1968.

19)

subfiles and/or investigative reports on

the lollowing organizations for the period

1966 chrough 1968 for the cities of New

Orleans, Louisiana; Birmingham, Alabama;

• Memphis, Tennessee; Chicago, Illinois;

Atlanta, Geoigia; Los Angeles, California;

and the State of Mississippi:

a) Black Panthers

•b) Black Muslims

c.) American Nazi Party:

d) Student Nonviolent Coordinating Carmittee

50)

Subfiles and/or investigativo reports for

the period 1966 - 1968 for the following

organizations:

a) Liberty lobby.

The sword

The Fiery Cross

The White Camelia

e The silver Dollar Group

Your prompt cooperation will be most appreciated.

Very truly yours,

c. Robert Blalicy

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: msd

NW 55061 CĐöcId?3238475017847)42

---

## Page 43

FEDERAI GOVERMIENT

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Hr. Robert L. Keuch

Director, FBI

March 1, 1978

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

Dat)

bank rècords related to the Ray family and their businesses

(Pepper Printing Company and Pepper Stationery Company).

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum,

with one attachment, in response to the above request. It is

requested that you furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum

to the HSCA.

Enclosures (3)

at and

variadne

ENCLOSURE

2-

Assoc. Dir..

Dep. AD Adn. -

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir::

Adm. Serv. _

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Pers. -

Ident.-

Intell. -

Laboratory

Legal Coun

(5)

Plan. & Insp. -

Spoc. Inv. -

Tech, Servs. -

Training -

Publie Affs. Off.-

Telephone Rm. -

MAILED

MAR 1 - 1978

REC-46

FBI.

62-117290-5334

22 MAR 20 1978

SPE NOTE: PAGE, TVO

the

TELETYPE UNIT

539751

"Page ;43

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 44

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: The Committee reuested information related to the

Financial affairs of the Pay family contained in the MURKIN

file.

The Committee has previously been given access to

the Teadauarters MURKIN file, has been delivered the entire

temphis Field Office file, and has been riven access

o all information resardine Jerry and dohn I. ray.

The Committee indicated that St. Louis conducted

an investigation into the Ray family's bank records. In

an effort to comply with their reauest, st. Louis reports

(Serials 3333 and

4760) were reviewed and pertinent information

extracted for delivery to the committee.

This included all

Information rerardino Carol and Albert Pepper..

A search for

information regardin? Pepper Printing Company

and Pender

Stationery Company revealed no recora.

It is not feasible to review the entire MURKIN

file or previous information already furnished the Committee:

They are being given only that information which was

reasonably segrerable.

- 2-

MW 55061

DocId: 32909751

Page 44

---

## Page 45

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

March 1, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

delivery of certain information

in the fither. Headquarters. Spectrically, this letter

requested copies of any financial and/or bank records obtained

during the period 1967-1968 for the following:

1. James Earl Ray

2. Jerry Ray

3: com

I. Ray

11586

sent aried tani in

Carol Pepper

фтасра ке

5. Albert Pepper

6. Pepper Printing Company

7. Pepper Stationery Company

In an effort to comply with the above request of

the SCA, a search was conducted on subjects four through

seven, listed above.

Thereafter, references were located

only on carol and Albert Pepper.

With respect to the financial records of James Earl

Ray, as the Committee is aware,, the FBI conducted an extensive

Investigation in this area, and, as such, it is not possible

to segregate the requested Information without a review of

the King assassination file (MURKIN), which 1s not feasible

file, either of which would contain all of the requested

Information regarding Ray.

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Ach.-

Dep. AD Inv. -

With respect to

request for information regarding

Asst. Dir.:

the financial records of Jerry Ray and John L. Ray, it shoula

Adm. Sorv. —

be noted that in response to iSCA request of March

Crim. Inv. -

9, 1977, the

Fin, & Pers. =

Committee was given access by our letter of June 30, 1977,

Ident.—

Intell. -

to all retrievable information, including financial records

Laboratory-

regarding the two Ray brothers.

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.=

Rec Mgnt. =

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

DIVISION, ATTENTION

MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH.

Tech. Serv's._

Training -

Publie Affs. Off.-

Telephone Rm. -

TVB : meli (6)

Director's Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

SEE NOTE, PAGE TWO

TELETYPE UNIT @ENCLOSURE 62117290-524

Page 45

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 46

HOUSE SPLECT COMITTICE O ASSASSIITATIONS

U,s. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

The ISCA letter of February 6, 1978, made reference

to the st. Louis Flold Office investigation regarding bank

records of the fay family.

Two st. Louls reports dated

May 10, 1968,,

and June 25, 1968 (Bureau files 44-38861-3333

and 44-30361-4760), Nerc located and reviewed. These two

roports contained all the information referred to above

regarding the Peppers and some of the infornation regardine

verry and John l. nay. the pertinent pages of these two

reports have been processed and are attached.

Included

in this attachment 1s Information rerarding

Ray's fathor,

Jorry Raynes, due to the obvious interconnection of the

finencial affairs of saynes and Carol Pepper.

Where information

one rent ac, want to no tenorant of indorst nanation

being furnished pursuant to

Enclosure

diminal livirect, Attention Robert a kettor dateeneral,

Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated

3/1/78, captioned

"House Select Committee on Assassinations,

U. S. House of Representatives (HSCA).*

• NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 46

---

## Page 47

LOUIS STOKES,

RICHAROSON ORFYER, N.C.

WALTER EURNVIIAOY, D.C.

YVLANE PHATHIVAITE LURKE, CALF.

CHRISTONHER J. DODE, CONN.

MAÑOLD E. FODD, TENN.

• "*FASYD S. FITHIAN, IND

ROGERT N. EDGAR, PA.

DE

D. MC.

CHARLES TIONE, NESS.

HAROLE S. SAWYER, MICH.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

T.E. Douse of Representatites

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUS DING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

February 6, 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the

United

States

Department of Justice

Washington, D..C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear MI: Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the death of Di. Martin Luther King, Jr., it has been

learned that the St. Louis Field Office engaged in an effort

to secure bank records of the Ray family.

It is therefore

requested that the fBI provide this Committee with copies of

any financial and/or bank records obtained in the investiga-

tion of the following during the period 1967-1968:

1)

2)

3:)

4)

5)

James Earl Ray

Jerry Ray (brother)

John I. Ray (brother)

Carol Pepper (sister)

Albert Pepper (brother-in-law)

Pepper Printing Company

7) Pepper Stationery Company

We are cognizant of the difficulties involved with

respect to the Bureau's indexing system and compliance with

this request as stated (1.e. financial and/or bank records).

However, we solicit your earnest attempts in compliance witr

this request.

sincerely,

A Rent Olsteg

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ghđ

CC:

Danny Coulson

62-117290-534

ENCLOSURE

a 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 47

---

## Page 48

LIMITED OMAR ZEAL USt 42

RECEIVED IC

• EDENAL BUREAI

OF INYESTIGATION

COMKUHICATICYS SECTION

MEXICO D3999

D91648Z

FBB469

PAGE DI

ACTION ARA- 14

INFO

OC1-D1

ISO-DD H-DI IN- 1D

00 0.

FBIE-DO

1D26 W

-D35427 100741Z/14

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD 100, 6-

Asst. Dir.:

Crim her

dent

Intell?

Laborator:

Legal Coin.

Plan, & 1agp.

Rer. Mont.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off.

Telephone Rm.

Director's Sec'y

Puppe

R 091636Z MAR 78

FM AMEMBASSY MEXICO

TO SECSTATE WASHD C 8824

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE MEXICO 03999

House Committee in

EO 11652: N/ A

TAGS: OREP, MX

SUBJECT: CONGRESSIONAL TRAVEL

TEEC122-112224-562

2 MAR 15 1978

REF: (1) STATE 954921; (2) MEXICO D2955; AND PREVIOUS

Nefi

1a I TOOK UP PERSONALLY WITH ATTORNEY GENERAL FLORES ON

MARCH 8 THE INTEREST OF REPRESENTATIVE STOKES AND CHIEF

COUNSEL, BLAKEY, IN MEETING WITH MEXICAN AUTHORITIES IN

MAY ZOM 12790M M

SMAR SLIOZEE CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATION INIO THE

NU SCORCUS ANGES, SURR QUND IN THE ION OF DRO MARTIN

---

## Page 49

: LUTHER KING, JR. THE ATTORNEY

THE ATTORNEY GENERAL SAID THAT HE PER-

,SONALEY WOULD DEAL WITH THE QUESTION OF HIS SECRETARIAT'S

COOPERATION, INCLUDING CONTACTING THE MEXICAN

CITIZENS WHOM THE HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE GROUP WOULD WISH

TO INTERVIEW. HE ASKED THAT I SEND HIM THE NAMES OF

THESE PERSONS, TOGETHER WITH AS MUCH INFORMATION AS POSS-

IBLE ON WHAT OTHER LINES THE COMMITTEE REPRESENTATIVES

WOULD WISH TO PURSUE, IN ADVANCE OF THE ARRIVAL OF THE

INVESTIGATORS, POINTING OUT THAT THIS COURSE COULD SAVE

THE CODEL REPRESENTATIVES VALUABLE IIME.

2. AS SOON AS IHE COMMITTEE STAFF CAN PROVIDE IHIS IN-

FORMATION, I WILL SEND IT TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL, WHO

I EXPECT WILL FOLLOW HIS USUAL PRACTICE OF PROMPT AND

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

PAGE D2

MEXICO 03999

D91648Z

HIGHLY COOPERATIVE RESPONSE.

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 49

LUCEY

---

## Page 50

MAILED. IL

MAR 2 Ô 1978

FEDERAL GOVORADASE

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention:

Mir. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

March 17, 1978

1 - Mr. Bailey

1

- G. J. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn :

Mr. Coulson

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

T. S. HOUSE OF TIRE SINE VIE HA)"

199

Reference Is made to the letters to the Attorney

an action to the Hate svet odion to Siooquested,

assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., all files, material

and information relating to Hilllam Hugh Morris. On March 15,

a sion monter, hank

1978, HSCA staff member Mark Spelser advised in an Atlanta

newspaper article dated February 7, 1978, WIlllam Hugh Morris

stated he was an FBI Informant at one time: Speiser requested

the FBI review the informant file for Morris and provide the

Committee with pertinent information.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum

In response to the above request. It is requested that you

furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

Enclosures (2)

Julie: pen

1

62-117290

1: 1:10-849.

pinaspake

NOTE: On March 15, 1978, HSCA staff member Mark Speiser

orally advised William Hugh Morris had stated in an Atlanta

newspaper

article dated february T, 1978, that he had been an

informant for the FBI.

Speiser requestea, as Morris' informant

status was made public, that his informant file be reviewed

for pertinent information.

Bufile 134-7461 was located and

reviewed.

Serial one (Mobile airtel to Bureau dated October 8,

1958), revealed Morris voluntarily appeared at Montgomery RA

and furnished information regarding J. B. Stoner; however,

hirtel reflects that it appeared to be a ploy by Morris to get

honey from the Bureau and

that it was unlikely that Morris could

urnish information of value.

A notation appearing on the

rtel reflects that the Bureau telephonically advise in,

obile Office not to initiate contact with morris.

ENCLOSURE]

PEG56 62-1122905

EX-114

MAR 21 1978

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

'".

LWAP4713 DO49784

80451

Page

50

---

## Page 51

• "HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

On March 15, 1978, Mobile telephonically advised that

their Informant file on Morris (134-187) contains four serials.

Only the Mobile airtel mentioned above contains any substantive

information furnished by Morris and the file was closed by

communication dated October 14, 1958, with the statement that

no consideration was being given to opening Morris as an

informant.

sased on the above review, serial 134-7461-1 was

¡eLiverea to the HSCA March 15, 1978

Special Agent Marty V. Hale, Criminal Intormant Unit,

General Investigative Division, advised that release of serial

could be made.

---

1

" RM 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 51

---

## Page 52

-

1 - Mr. Balley

1 = MI. God. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mi. Coulson

March 17, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Per HSCA requests dated January 9, 1978, and

March 7, 1978, the HSCA requested access to all information

pertaining to William Hugh Morris. Pursuant to the Memorandum

of Understanding, this information was made available for the

HSCA by Director letters to Assistant Attorney General, Criminal

Division, Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch, dated February 17,

1978, and March 8, 1978.

Subsequent to making the releasable material regarding

Morris avallable, HSCA staff member Mark Spelser advised that

in an article in

the Atlanta Constitution dated February T,

1970, W21llam Hugh Morris stated that he had been an informant

l'or the FBI.

Mr. Speiser orally requested that the Informant

Iile of Morris be made available.

An Informant file relating to Willlam Hugh Morris

was located and reviewed.

A communication from the Mobile

Office of the FBI to FBI Headquarters dated October 8, 1958,

reflected Morris volunteered information to the FBI on one

ocassion but the possibility of him furnishing valuable Infor

mation was considered unlikely. A notation on this communication

reflected that the Bureau telephonically advised the Mobile

Office that contact with Morris should not be initiated.

Additionally, the Mobile Fleld Office Informant file reflected

chat, by communication dated October 14, 1950, no consideration

was being given to opening Morris as an informant.

fir. Spelser was advised of the above information and

he requested a copy of that communication.

On March 15, 1978,

a copy. of that communication was furnished to the HscA.

Assoc, Dir 62-217290

Dep. AD Admi..

Dep. AD Inv.

• Asst, Dira:

(5)

Adm. Sorv..

1. 1.

5-10-84

птаракя.

Crim. Inv. -

Fin. & Pers. _ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAT,

Le. CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: HR. ROBERT I. KEUCH

Laboratory =

Legal Cour NOTE: See Director letter to ASsistant Attorney General

Plon. &Is Criminal DivisIon, Attention:

Ren March 17, 1978, captioned as above.

Mir. Robert I. Keuch, dated

Tech. Servs.-

Training -

+2-1172805531

Public Affs. Off.-

Telephone Rm. -

pAS

Director's Sec'y-

MAIL ROOM

GPRELETYPE UNIT O

ENCLOSURET

IW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page

52

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 53

: 1=

FEDERAL GOVERNIENT

Assistầnt Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Reuch

Director, FBI

BOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

February 9, 1978

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

Reference is made to the letter, to the Attorney General fron

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated December 30,

1977; which, in connection with the HSCA's Investigation Into the assassina-

tion of Martin Luther King, Jr., requested delivery of a copy of several

letters of correspondence from Jerry Ray to Marjorie Fetters-

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum with an

enclosure which contains material in response to the above request. It

is requested that you furnish a copy of this memorandum and its enclosure

to the HSCA.

Enclosures (3)

ENCLOSURE

EX-111

RECES 62-117290-528

18 MAR 15 1978

Assoc. Dir. _

Dep. AD Ach. =

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Sery..

Crim. Inv..-

Fin. & Pers.

Ident. -

Intell. -

Laboratory -

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp. -

Roc. Mgnt. -=

Spec. Inv.—

Tech. Servs.-

Training-

Public Affs. Off._

Telephone Rm.

MAILED.5

FEB 9

1978

FBI

TELETYPE UNITE

Page 53

SEE NOTE, PAGE TWO

Ra 3658

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 54

.."т

...

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: Copies of correspondence from Jerry Ray to Marjorie Fetters were

apparently not sent to FBIHQ during course of MURKIN investigation. The

HSCA based its request on review of Chicago Field Office files, copies

of which are at FBIHQ. The Chicago Office furnished by airtel dated

2-1-78, copies of all correspondence received by Fetters from Ray.

Fetters, of Newark, New Jersey, was corresponding with Ray, brother of

James Earl Ray,

during the MURKIN investigation.

-2 -

ITW

55061

DocId: 32989751 Page 54

---

## Page 55

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

February 9, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney Ceneral from

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated December 30,

1977; which, in connection with the HSCA's Investigation into the

assassination of Martin Luther King, Jt., requested delivery of a copy

of several letters of correspondence from Jerry Ray to Marjorie Fetters.

A review of pertinent serials in the FBI's Investigation into

the assassination of Martin Luther Kings JI., (MURKIN) disclosed letters

were written from Jerry Ray to Marjorie Fetters on the following dates:

April 14, 1968 (seven pages); April 22, 1968 (four pages);

April 23, 1968 (one page); Apxil 28, 1968 (five pages);

May 10, 1968 (five pages); May 15, 1968. (two pages); and

May 18, 1968 (four pages).

In response to the ábove HSCA request, enclosed is an attach-

ment.containing-one.copy of.each of the above-nine_letters-

It should also be noted that Fetters received two other

letters from Ray. One letter was dated May 24, 1968, and the othex,

date not recorded in FBI files, was received by Fetters on June 3, 1968.

Appropriate files contain no indication that either of these letters was

furnished to the FBI.

Enclosute

Assoc, Dir. - ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL DIVISION,

Dep. ADI. _ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH.

Dep. AD Inv..

Asst, Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _

Crim. Inv.

NOTE: See Director, FBI

lettér to Assistant Attorney General, Criminal

Fin. & Pers.

Ident. -

Division, Attention: Me. Robert is. Keuch, dated 2-9-78, captionen

•House Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House of Representatives

Intell..

Laboratory =

-(HSCA) . "

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp.

Rec Mgnt. -

Spec. Inv.-

Tech. Servs.-

HB

62-117-298-528

Training.

Public Affs. Off._

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y=

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNT TENCLOSUREI

NW 55061 DocId 32989751

Page 55

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 56

LOUIS STONES, OHiO, CHAIMIN

RICHARDSON PREYER, NG. L 11 ¡IIMUELL, DÉVIS

MALTER I. FAUNTAOY, D,C.

STEWART D.MO

YVONNE DRATHWAITE DURKE. CALIF.

CHARLES THONE

CHRISTOPHERS. DODD, CONY.

HAROLO Ei TORO.

TENN.

HAROLD J. SAWYLA.

OLOTO S. FITHIANTNO.

RODIRT W, EOGAN, PA.

HO

P. CONN.

Aldilogis

/j.

23

JUSTICE

ReaM

PROM

(302) 223-4824

Select Committee on Assassinations

M.5. House of liepresentatives

93J1 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

DEC 30 1977•

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Attentión:

Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

shi: 4073

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., it has been

determined from a review of the Chicago fiela

office file

(No..44-1114) of the MURKIN investigation that the FBI is

in possession of several letters of correspondence from

Jerry Ray to Marjorie Fetters:

(See, for example, serials

office file.)

277, 3351145, 5t is equested that 7he than thield:

Committee with copies of all correspondence from Jerry Ray

to Marjdrie Fetters.

Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly

appreciated.

very truly yours,

Cc: Danny 0. Coulson

12. Nobut Blakes

Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and PirectoFuSLATVe AFFAIRe

DEPARTMEN PE, MISTICE

10

JAN $ 1978

GRB: mek

62-117290-5281

F22Z7I

O.R.O. Move arcan

•FEDERAL BU. OF INV!

NW 55061 DOSId; 3293975 Rage 565

---

## Page 57

COURS STOKES, OHIO, EMAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYEA, MC.

BAMUEL L. DIVINE, OHIO

HALTER I, HAUNTAOY, D.E.

TENAMT O. MCKI ILY, CONN

"VONNE BRATHWAITI BURKE, CALITI

KARLES THONE

¡HRISTOPHEM S, DODD, CONTE

MIATOLD I. BANY

LAMOLO E. VORO, TENN.

Z0Y0 d. TITHIAN, INO.

IOBIRT W. LOGAMITA?

( (202) 223-1824

3011SA

HOOY

stry

Alicizi

Sorlect Committze on Assassinations

• 8.E. Louse of Biepresentatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.G. 20515

DEC 3 0 1977

17-0€

ALSONS

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney. General:

BL3A

in possession of several letters of correspondence from

• Jerry Ray to Marjorie Fetters.

(See, for example, serials

271, 335, 496, 560, 574, 621, and. 637 in the Chicago field.

It is requested that the FBI furnish this

Committee with copies of all correspondence from Jerry Ray

to Marjörie Fetters.

Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly

appreciated.

. Very truly yours,

CC:

Danny 0. Coulson

f. Nobut Blahes

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and PirectoFuSenTiVE. AFFAIS

FEDERAL RUDE INS

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

10

GRB: mek

JAN $ 1978

O.R.0.M..

62-117298

~528

ENCLOSURE

•FEDERAL BU. OF INV

#: 4435457474090093

the 8434555635 Termedon

---

## Page 58

TEDARAL DOVERAXENTS

1 - Mr. G. J. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

(Attn: Mr. Coulson)

February 2, 1978

is

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Director, FBI

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General from

december 30, 1977, Whica, in so nection with the SCA stavestiga-

tion into the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., requested

Rose and Dennis Nix:

Rose and eat No one rains ta hurt temper, rossento leg

By letter to the Attorney General dated January 16, 1978,

Mr. Blakey requested that, since the Committee had delivered to the

FBI the written consent of Geppert to view all materials relating to

his informant relationship with the FBI, it was intended that the

request of December 30, 1977, include field office files concerning

Geppert.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum

in response to the above requests. It is requested that you furnish a

copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA:

62-117290-524X1

Enclosures - 2.

3 i

Cata 62-117290 = 532

62-117290

1 - 170-5569

"BOSTOSURE ATTACHED"

IT.X: MAR I5 1978

UNREC COPY AND COPY OF ENCL FIED IN

Assoc. Dir. =

Dep. AD Adh. =

Dep. AD Inv..

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.=

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Pers.

Ident. -

Intell. -

Laboratory.

Legol Coun. _

Plan. & Insp. —

Rec. Mgnt. =

Spec. Inv. —=

Tech. Servs.=

Training;

(6)

MAILED 10

FEB 2

14 203-9

MAY I CON

Nw 55064 Mpprar32969751 •Page 58

TELETYPE UNIT

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

AM IFORMATON TAIN

HEREIN IS UNCHASSIFTED COURiSO

225984

3658

#245,852 Spinacke 1-10-860

31/DOJ

---

## Page 59

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE:

Attached to the yellow copy is a waiver from Geppert

authorizing HSCA access to files regarding his informant

relationship with the FBI. This walver was delivered to the FBI by

the HSCA on 1/10/78.

According to Bureau file 170-5569, Geppert was opened as

a racial informant during 7/71 by the Springfield Office. He primarily

furnished a limited amount of information concerning White Hate

activities. He was closed in 9/71 after it was learned that he told

other members of the National States Rights Party that he had talked

to FBI Agents. A request by Springfield to reopen Geppert in 3/72

was refused by FBIHQ.

By teletype dated 1/19/18, Geppert's files in Springfield

were requested and by airtel dated 1/23/78 Springfield enclosed

pertinent files and references concerning Geppert.

In view of the nonsensitivity of information furnished by

Geppert, the short period of time he was operated as an informant,

and in view of the above-mentioned written authorization furnished

by him, it is believed that information in his field and Headquarters

informant files should be made available to the Committee. This.

matter has been coordinated with SA M. V. Hale, Top Echelon and

Criminal Informant Unit, Criminal Investigation Division.

- 2 -

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 59

---

## Page 60

1 - Mr. G. J. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

(Attn: Mr. Coulson)

February 2, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General from

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

December 30, 1977, which, in connection with the HSCA's investiga-

tion into the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., requested

information. in FBI files concerning Richard Geppert, Terrence Lee

Rose and Dennis Nix.

By letter to the Attorney General dated January 16, 1978,

Mr. Blakey requested that, since the Committee had delivered to the

FBl the written consent of Geppert to view all materials relating to

his informant relationship with the FBI, it was intended that the

request of December 30, 1977, include field office files concerning

Geppert.

This memorandum is to advise that material in response

to the above requests has been processed and is available for HSCA

access at FBI Headquarters. Where information is not provided, it

is either not retrievable from FBI Headquarters files or is not being

produced pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding.

₫2458S2

62-117290

1 - 170-5569

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE S(u|B2 BYSP.) GSK/eSK

225984

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH

NOTE:

See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated

2/2/78, captioned, "House Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S.

House of Representatives ' (HSCA)."

Assoc Dis. -

Dep. AD Adh.

Dep. AD Inv.=-

Assi. Dir.:

Adm. Sorv. -

Crim. Inv. -

Fin. & Perso m

Ident. —

Intell.:

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnto

Speco Inv.----

Tech. Servs. =

Training =

Public Affs. Offo_

Telephone Rm. —

Director's Sec'y -

55061

MAIL ROOM

DocId: 32989751

TELETYPE UNIT O

Page 60

62-117290-524X1

ENCLOSURE 62- 117290532.

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 61

LOIS STOXES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, M.C.

SAMUEL L. DIVINE, ONIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.G.

STEWAIT B, ME KINNEY, CONN.

• YVONNE SPATHIVAITE BURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES THONE. NE&R•

GHRISTOPHER 1, DODD, CONN.

HAROLD S. SAWYEI, MICH.

HAROLO E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

RODERT IV. LOGAR. PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. House of Biepresentatites

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

DEC 3 0 1977

Letten

70 ANG,

CRIM ISIV

2/2/78

NW 55061

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

20530

Attention:

Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

requested

mittee, with any and all files, documents and/or other materials

on the following persons:

1. Richard Geppert

DOB:

July 31, 1941

Address:

1340 Niedringhaus Avenue

Granite City, Illinois

• 2.

3.

Terrence Lee Rose

Address:

4641 Old Collinsville Road

Belleville, Illinois

Dennis Nix

wim

$640

Address:

st. Louis, Missouri- whift

Your prompt attention to this matter will'be greatly

appreciated.

Very truly yours,

GRB: sjk

CubaId Danwy5D. Pegalison

12. Robert Blake

G.

Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

279i0-3

ENGLOSURE 62 - 177298-524 X1

---

## Page 62

NW 55061

•...

DocId: 32989751

Page 62

.1

ENCLOSURE 62-117290-52481

---

## Page 63

AUTHORIZATION

I hereby authorize the House Select Committee

on Assassinations to request and review any

and all reports, files,

documents and vouchers

in the possession of the Federal Bureau of

Investigation which have been prepared and

maintained by the FBI as a result of"confi-

dential relationship with Special Agents of

the FBI. I have voluntarily revealed to

staff members of the Select Committee the ex-

tent and nature of my informant relationship

with the FBI.

122-28-77

Bill Steppest

• Witness:

Michael The Lardt

Michael Eberhardt

siders agreese

Conrad Baetz

Stati Investigator

RECEIVED

D. O-COULSON,

by congress with

-EDAL

AFFAIRS

51

Page 63

---

## Page 64

inci

1 - Mr. G. J. Foster

i - Legal Counsel División

(Attn: Mr. Coulson)

February 2, 1978

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

FEDERAL, COVERINZ

Director, FBI

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS®

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

334,356

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

December 13, 19%%, which, in connection with the HSCA's investiga-

tion into the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., requested

access to all material or files at FBI Headquarters concerning the

Minutemen organization for the period 1966-1968 in the states of

Mississippi and Louisiana and all files concerning Reynard J.

Rochon.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum

in response to the above request. It is requested that you lurnish a

copy of the enclosed memórandum to the HsCA.

Enclosures - 2

62-117290

ENOLOSURE

*EC-65

62-117290-524

EX-1,10

71 MAR 15 1973

NOTE:

In response to this request, references and subfiles covet-

ing the states of Mississippi and Louisiana were processed

for the Committee. The main Minutemen file (62-107261), from

Section 44 to 98, was reviewed for investigative reports covering the

period 1966-1968. All reports of the office of origin, Kansas City,

Assoc. Dir.

reports originating in New Orleans and Jackson offices; and any

Dep. AD Adm.-

Dep. AD Inv. -=

other report, a copy of which was sent to these offices, were

Asst; Dir.:

Adm. Serv. -

processed for HSCA access.

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Pers. _

Ident._

Intell..

Laboratory _

Legal Cour. -

Plan. & Insp. a

MAILED 17

1978

03

MITH •CHED

I had do baitin

D2I21-10.8u

_Вартасти:

Spec. Inv. -

Tech. Servs._

FEB

Training-

2 B3

Public Affs. Oif.-

Am 3658

Died MAR 20M970

TELETYPE UNIT O

WW 5506€-DocId: 32982751

Page 64

4128,5

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 65

ZIT

=

1 - Mr. G. J. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

(Attn: Mr. Coulson)

February 2, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

December 13, 1977, which, in connection with the ESCA's investiga-

tion into the assassination of Martin Luther King, JI., requested

access to all material or files at FBI Headquarters concerning the

Minutemen organization for the period 1966-1968 in the states of

Mississippi and Louisiana and all files concerning Reynard J.

Rochon.

On January 16, 1978, HSCA staff attorney Mark Speiser

agreed to limit review of the Minutemen file at FBI Headquarters to

subfiles of the offices covering the states of Louisiana and Mississippi,

and in the main file on the Minutemen, process only investigative

reports covering the period 1966 through 1968.

This memorandum is to advise that material in response

to the above request and its modification has been processed and is

available for HSCA access at FBI Headquarters. Where information

is not provided, it is either not retrievable from FBI Headquarters

files or is not being produced pursuant to the Memorandum of

Understanding®

62-117290

Ere dated 0970

Assoc.

Dir.

Dep. AD Acm. -

Dep. AD Inv. =

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Perso.

Ident. -

Intell.

Laboratory =

Legal Coun.

Plon. & Insp. =

Rec Mgns. =on

Spec. Inv. -

Tech. Servs.=

Training -

Publie Affs. Off.=

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 65

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, dated 2/2/78, captioned as above.

TELETYPE UNIT O

"spinagnie

62-717290-5344

ENCLOSURE,

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 66

"A: E.

FOUNTROr. U.C.

LISTEN HENS. DODD. CONN.

..OLO E, FOMS, TENN.

910S+1TH688, 1NS.

(202) 225-6524

'SAT"UEL L. DI

24110

1?Y. CONN.

CHARLES THON:,

izur.

HANOLD 5. 5980558, MiCH.

Select Committee in Aesassinations

U.ã. House ci Representatues

3331 HOUSE OFFICE EUILDING. ANNEY. 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

DEC 13

LETTER

STA: If®

2.

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney. General of the United States

Department of Justice

DROM

MAIL ROOM

Washington, D. C.

20530

Attention:

Mx. Robert I: " Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room. 2113

DEC 14 11'29 AM

_Bavse

Car 16 un

Dear MI. Attorney, General:

In connection with the investigation by the Select

Committee on Assassinations into the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, JI., it would be appreciated if our staff could

have access to the following files:

a) Any and all materials or files pertaining to

the organization known as the MINUTEMÈN for

the perzod 1966-1968 active in the states of

Mississippi and Louisiana.

c). Any records and files, excluding "D.E.A.. records

requested in our letter of

November 8, 197T on

DEA

LETTER

aNdy

Reynard. J. Rochon

(1967 address)

2200 Oriole Street

7018 Dreux Street

New Orleans, Louisiana

New Orleans, Louisiana

Your cooperation and prompt attention to this matter is

greatly appreciated.

Sincerely,

Sitobislas

G.

Robert Blakey

chief. counselor

a ninetia.

-ARS

11919

GRB.: ghe

cc: Danny 0. Coulson

NW 55061

Docid: 32989751

Page 66

62-117 290-524

ENCLOSURE

---

## Page 67

019--47-R87

p--i

TELETYPE

ROUTINE

CLEAR

1 - Legal Counsel Division

(Attn! (

D. 0. Coulson)

1 - Mr. G.

J. Foster

3/14/78

FM DIRECTOR

TO JACKSON (ROUTINE)

BT

CLEAR

1st enemis

HOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTIGATION BY THE HSCA INTO THE

ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., STAFF MEMBERS OF THE

HSCA HAVE REQUESTED TO INTERVIEW JAMES W. SAMMON OF THE JACKSON-

OFFICE, CURRENILE UNDER TRANSTER IO JACKSONVIIE, SAMONS G

SCHEDULED FOR INTERVIEW ON THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 1978, AT 2 RM.

AT THE COMMITTEE'S OFFICES IN WASHINGTON, D. C:

SAMMON HAS BEEN RELEASED FROM HIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT AND

IS AUTHORIZED TO PARTICIPATE IN HSCA INTERVIEW. HE SHOULD RE-

PORT TO FBIHQ ON THE DAY PRIOR TO SCHEDULED INTERVIEW. REPORT

TO ROOM 3658 OR 8988 FOR INSTRUCTIONS REGARDING INTERVIEW.

BT

REC-5 62-117222-515

EX-105

MAR 16 1978

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adh. -

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

1 - Jacksonville

Adm. Serv. _

Crim. Inv. -

Fin. & Pers. -

Ident. -

Intell..

Laboratory -

TA: 1fjlF

(5)

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp._

Rec. Mgni. _

Spec. Inves

Tech. Servs, -

Training -

8 TAR 27 1978

Telephone Rm. ou

Director's See'y -

MALL ROON L

NW 55061

DO 1432589761

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

• MAR 1 4 1978

Of 2309

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 67

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 68

i.

, are is

PAGE TWO CLEAR

NOTE:

By letter dated 2/28/78, _the HSCA requested inter-

view of Sammon. By Legal Counsel memorandum to the

Director dated 3/9/78, approval was obtained for release

from employment agreement.

Jacksonville is being advised

since Sammon is under transfer to that office.

This tele-

type confirms telephone conversation with Sammon on 3/13/78

advising him of information concerning HSCA interview.

and 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page

68

---

## Page 69

= **

;..

ja.d

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L.. Keuch

Director, FBI

FEDERAL OVERHEAR

February 9, 1978

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

HOUSE, SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

erence area to the letter to the detone ere from

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated January 4,

1978, which, in connection with the ASCA's investigation into the

assassination of Martin Luther Kings JI», requested access to information

in FBI Headquarters (FBIHQ) files concerning Gerold Frank.

4040400

Reference is also made. to the Metter. to the Attorney General

from Mr. Blakey dated January 20, 1978, which requested delivery. of

certain materials in the FBI's Investigation into the assassination of

Martin Luther KIng, JI.; Including the above Information concerning

Frank.

Inclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum, with

five enclosures, which contain material from. IBIHQ files in response to

the above requests. It is/requested that you furnish a copy of the

enclosed memorandum/and its enclosures to the HSCA.

Enclosures (7) 3-ENCLOSURE

Di11-13-86 rAanama

ST-130

MAILED 5

FEB 9 1978

FBI

REC 4562-117290-5/4

TT MAR 15 1978

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

ITA: amo

(5)

Adm. Serv. -

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Pers.

Ident. -

Intell..

Laboratory.

Legal Coun

Plon. & Insp. -

Rec Mgnt. _

Spec. Iny. -

Tech. Servs.-

rainings ordi AR 27 1978

Telephone Rm. _

Director's See'y-

MAIL ROOM

NW 65061 DocTa: 82989751 Page 69

TELETYPE UNIT O

SEE NOTE, PAGE TWO

100

mer

Mp.L.

104 10:

In 34150

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 70

.:?.

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

NOTE: Following review of information concerning Frank, the HSCA

requested delivery of that material and the other items named in the

letter of 1-20-78.

Discussions with Mr. Keuch, Department of Justice, representatives

noved, attit do ving the date that be resented

to access only and, therefore, no delivery is being made.

'-2-

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page

70

---

## Page 71

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

February 9, 1978

HOUSE SELBOT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENIATIVES (ESCA)

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney General from

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated January 4,

1278, which, in connection with the ISCAs Investigation Inco the.

assassination of Martin Luther Kiag, Jf-, requeated access to Informa

tion in FBI Héadquarters (FBIHQ) files concerning Gerold Frank.

Roférence is also nade to the letter to the Attorney General

from Mr. Blakey dated. January 20, 1978, which requested delivery of the

above-mentioned material concerning Frank; Serials 5653 through 5655 of

the Ring assassination file (MIRKIN); Seriale 5942 through 5946 of the

MURKIN file, tickler files of the Legal Attache Oftices in London,

Ottara, lexico City, and Paris; and Information pertaining to WillIam Bradford

Hule for the pertod 1968 to the present.

In response to the above requests, with the exception of Iten

3 of the letter of January 20, 1978, attached are documents retrieved

from files of TBIAQ, Where Information has not been provided, it is not

retrievable fron FBIQ files of 1s not being furnished pursuant to the

Menorandun.of Understanding.

Regarding Item 3, tickler files of the Legal Attache Office in

Londos, Ottava; Mexico City, and Paris are not being delivered. 'However,

these files are available for asca access at IbuiQ.

Enclosures (5):

NW

Assoc. Dire -

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL DIVISION,

Dep. AD Adm. - ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT I. KEUCH.

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst.'Dir.:

Adm. Serv. -=

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General, Criminal

Crim. Inv. _

Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 2/9/78, captioned

Fin. & Pers. -

"House Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House of Representatives

Ident. -

(HSCA)."

Intell.

Laboratory =

Legol Coun — EVA: amo spill

Plan. & Insp. -

Rec. Mgnt. →

•0 € (5)

Spec. Inv. -

Tech. Servs.

Training.

Public Affs. Off.-

Telephone Ri. -

Diréctor's Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM Y

56661V DocId: 32989751

812

TELETYPE UNIT O

Page 71

62-117290-514

ENCLOSURE'

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 72

MICHARDSON HALYER, NG.

MALTÃA R. FAUNTROY, D.E.

YVONNE SHATYWAITE BURXE, C1L1F

+798.9249.94568

-

: 517H/A0,10.

(202) 225-48241

SINUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO

STEWART 3. MCKINNEY, CONN

CHAPLES THONE.

icH.

1918

Seleci committee on

1.5. House of Representatibes. :

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX-?

WASHINGTON; D.C. 20515

January 4, 1978

HAND DELIVER

-The Honorable Griffin B.. Bell

Attorney: General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington,. D. C. 20530

Attention:

Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney. General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., it is re-

quested that the F.B.I. make available to the Committee

access to all F.B.I. materials, files, memoranda, airtels, and

miscellaneous items, including but not limited to any

tained in the MURKIN File (44-38861), on or referring to the

following individual:

Gerold Frank - author

d.0.b. •8/2/1907

current address:

930

5th Avenue

New York, New York 10021'

It is requested that access to these materials be pro-

vided on a priority basis so that our initial review can be

•. completed by January 16, :1978..

Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly

appreciated.

Respectfully,

= 20but Slabe

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ghd

CC:

Danny Coulson

62-117290-514

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page

72

ENCLOSUREl

---

## Page 73

SLEE

CHARDION PREYER, 11.1

SAMUEL L. DIVINE, OHIO

WALTER E, FAUNTHOY, D.C.

STIWART D. MC

YVONILE PRATHWAITE WUHKE, CATF.-

CHARLES THONI

CHTISTOPHER 1, DOOS, SSHY.

HAMOLO S. 5

HAROLO E. FOND, TENN.

FLOYOJ. FITHN'Y.IND.

ROD.RIW.LOGAR.FA.

CONN.

(202) 225-45244

Select Commuttee oi Ssa.

STATONS

U.D. House dE Ziepresentatiues

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

JAN

2 0 1978

CLU

2:15p.m

1/25/15

24 %2:

HAND

DELIVER

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

20530

Attention:

Mr.. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

• Dear Mr. Attorney General:

BY Letter dated January 4, 1977, this Committee

requested access to materials, tiles, memoranda and

miscellaneous items pertaining to Gerold Frank in

connection with the investigation into the death of Dr.

Martin Luther King, Jx.

These materials (94-63917) have

been reviewed by the staff, and it would be appreciated,

if the materials could be prepared for delivery, along

with copies of the following additional items:

1)

Section 78

44-38861 - 5655

5654

5653

2) Section 84

44-38861 - 5942

5943

5944

5945

5946

3)

The MURKIN-Legat tickler files for

a)

London

b) Ottawa

c)

Mexico City

Paris

62-117280

ENCLOSURE

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

•Page 73

---

## Page 74

Page Tro

AN+2 0.1978

Additionally, it is requested that the Bureau begin

to prepare for delivery all files, memoranda and miscellaneous.

items on William Bradford Huie for the years 1968 to the

present.

Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly

appreciated.

Sincerely,

.L Notex Blabey

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ghj

CC:

Danny O. Coulson

NW 55061* DocId: 32989751 • Page 74

---

## Page 75

OFFICIAL USE

PAGE B1

ORIGIN ARA- 14

STATE. 054921

CINFO OCT -81

ISO-DD. H-D1

FEDERAT GOVERNMENT

3 HAR78 18 242

RECEIYED

FEDERAL BUREAU:

INEF-IH@ESTIBBION DD

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

/ 026 R

Assoc. Dir,

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst, Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Crim. Inv.

Lahara'ory

Lera'?o1n.

Plan, 2 Insp.

Rec. Mant.

Tech. Servs.

Trainin?

Public Afis. Off.

Te'enhone Rm.

Director's Sec'y

DRAFTED BY ARA/MEX: K. R.MCKUNE :MRG

APPROVED BY ARA/MEX :D. E. SIMCOX

H: A. SCHNEE

ARA/MEX:R. DUNN

INR/DDC/ OIL :W. KRUG

DESIRED DISTRIBUTION

FBI JOE LEO

• 106249

D318167 / 43

P 031758Z MAR 78

IM SECSTATE WASHDE

TO AMEMBASSY MEXICO PRIORITY

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE STATE 254921

E. 0. 11652:

N/ A

PRET 62-112290-5129

11 MAR 14 1978

771.80

TAGS: OREP, MX

СОИСВЕЕ? ЗИУГ

SUBJECI: CONGRESSIONAL TRAVEL

MALICE CL

BECE AN

1K198

REF:' ME

MEXICO 2955 AND PREVIOUS

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 75

---

## Page 76

s. 1.

•CONGRESSMAN STOKES HAS SENT THE DEPARIMENT A LETTER

I SHARPLY CRITICAL OF IIS EFFORTS IN RESPONSE TO REQUESTS

FOR ASSISTANCE BY THE HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINA-

TIONS. (COPY BEING POUCHED BY ARA/MEX).

2. AMBASSADOR LUCEY MET WITH MEMBERS OF THE SELECT

COMMITTEE DURING HIS STAY HERE, AND WILL FOLLOW UP ON HIS

RETURN TO MEXICO.

CHRIST OP HER

LIMITED

OFFICIAL

USE

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

PAGE D2

STATE

054921

-

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 76

- 10

---

## Page 77

MEDERAL OOVDRAHERI

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal DivisiOn

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

January 24, 1978

1 - Mr. Foster

HOUSE SELECT COMITIEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

thief counsel and Dafector, fistA, dated

December 5, 1977, wnich, In connection with the HSCA"e

Investigation into the assassination of Martin Luther King,

Jr., requested infornation concerning 17 l18ted Indivadu, ox, gai

By PBI letter and memorandum dated January 19, 1978,

you were advised that material in response to the above request

was avallable for HSCA access at FBI Headquarters. Following

a review of this material on January 20, 1978, HSCA staff

дре

member Robin Lindley requested delivery of the material. It

1s noted that the HSCA letter of December 5, 1977, requested

Immediate access and later delivery of the material.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum,

with seven enclosures, which contain material requested by the

"SCA in referenced letter:

It is requested that you furnish

a copy of the enclosed memorandum and its enclosures to the

FISCA.

Enclosures - 9

ST:131

REC-45

62-1172908

50X2

1 - Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure)

2 MAR 15 1978

(5)

81°

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

Assoc. Dir.

Dap. AD Adh. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. -

Crim. Inv..

Fin. & Pers. —

Ident. -

Intoll..

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt. -

Spec. Inv. -

Tech. Servs. -

Training.

Public Affs. Off.-

Telephore Rm.

"Director'

55g 642

2 - ENCLOSURE

MAND TI

58 MAR 274

1978

JAN 24

MAIL ROOM

81032989751

TELETYPE UNIT E

Page 77

pRe

ALL INFCRMATION CONTAINED

HATEIN IS UNCLASSINIED

DATEL- 13. PL BApmaemie

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 78

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: HSCA letter of 12/5/77. asked for immediate access and

later delivery.

The request concerns 17 individuals,

primarily in California, which were connected with our

Investigation into the King assassination:

concerns James W. Ashmore who was subject of Bureau files

26-142040, 95-36487, 76-18132 and 87-60208..

73

---

## Page 79

-

1 - Mr. Foster

January 24, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMIITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

[rom G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

December 5: 191%, Which, in connection with the HSCA's

Investization into the

assassination of Martin Luther King,

Jr., requested information concerning 17 listed individuals.

BY FBI letter and memorandum dated January 19, 1978,

you were advised that material in response to the above

request

was available for HSCA access at FBI Headquarters.

Following

a review of this material on January 20, 1978, HSCA staff

member Robin Iindley requested delivery of the material. It

Is noted that the HSCA letter of December 5, 1977, requested

Immediate access and later delivery of the material.

In response to the above request, attachea are sever

enclosures. containing information retrieved from the files of

FBI Headquarters. Where Information 1s not provided, 1t 18

either not retrievable from Headquarters files or is

not being

produced pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding-

Enclosures 7

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT I. KEUCH & ONE SENT TO OFFICE

OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

Assoc. Dir. -

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Dep. ADAm. Criminal DivisiOn, Attention:

Mr. Robert I. Keuch, dated 1/24/78,

Dep. ADIn captioned,

Asst. Dir.:

"House

Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House

an. so. _Of Representatives (HSCA). "

Crim. Inv. —

Fin. & Pers. _

Ident. -

Intell. -

Laboratory -

ATL INCONTRY COTTeD

Legal Coun. _

Plane & Insp. _

Rec. Mgnt._

DATE 1-13-86

_ВКопастка.

Spec. Inv. -

Tech. Servs.-

Troining -

Publie Affs. Off.

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y-

MAIL ROOM W

TELETYPE UNIT

ENCLOSURE

62117290-51042

FBI/DOS

NW 55061 DooId:32989751

Page 79

---

## Page 80

"ALLS STOKES, ANIO, CHNIANA

SAMUSE

STEVIART

: KINNEY, CONN.

•DONNE D' THANITE DURNE, CALIF.

маного татоно, талм.

710:01. ҐHi19.

€5N25,8 SY. LUSAN, PA.

HAROLD 5. SAWYEM, MICH.

(292) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.&. House of dicpresentatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

• DEC 5 1977

Affairs

die. 7 2:30 pm 197)

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

*20530

Attention:

Mr. Robert Li. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113•

Dear MI: Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by the Select

Committee on Assassinations into the death of Dr. Martin

Luther king, Jr., we would appreciate: (1) the complete

FBI Identification Division Criminal Records and (2) any

DOJ file references concerning the individuals mentioned

below.

We would appreciate immediate

access to this infor-

mation and later delivery.

The information following each

name may be helpful in locating relevant files:

• Flikeia, Thomas M., aka Tom Flikeia,

• aka

T.M. Flikeid; male; white; FBI. # 5340 39D;

SSN 475-32-9225; 1968 address:

1831

Gramercy Place, Hollywood, California;

or 1831 North Gramercy, Hollywood, California;

employed by: Hollywood Carpets,

2952 West

Pico Blva., Los Angeles, California (1967) .:.

Flikeld, Susan, aka susan Lee

Harris, aka Sue

Harris; female; white; dob: 4/12/42; 1968

IN tOAAGIOD

112y1o& (Enc-2)

STA:DIO

1-OLA Ena)

address:

1831

Gramercy Place, Hollywood,

California, .or 1831 North Gramercy, Hollywoo&,

California; arrested in Hollyrood, California

.. or 4/27/67 and 5/15/67, FBI $ 525 505 G.

Dennis, Dyrell, aka Darrell Dennis, aka "Jeri";

female; white; 1968 address: 435 W. Michigan.

Street, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; prior to that

address, she lived in Los Angeles, California.

ENCLOSURE 62-117290-510X2

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 80•

---

## Page 81

-2.

v. Bonelli, John R.; aka John R. Beffel, Jx.i

male; white; dob: 5/12/32; 1968 address:.

175 North Orange Drive, Hollywood, Califor-

nia; 1967 address: 603

North New Hampshire

Avenue, Los Angeles, California; arrested.

'In Los Angeles, California on 5/15/67.

(See our letter of November 3, 1977, $20)

Katzwinkel, Anita Louise; female; white; dob:

. 6/27/47; pob: Mendota, Illinois; 1968

addresses:

1727 North Garfield Place, Los

Angeles, California and 1831 North Gramercy,

Hollywood, California, or 1831 Gramercy. Place

Hollywood, California; 1967 address: 1535

North Serrano, Los Angeles, California."

Day, Ginger, aka Ginger Nance;

aka Ginger

Cunningham; female; white; 1967 address:

1535 North Serrano, Los Angeles, California.

Heller, David; male, white; 1968 work address:

Vegas Club, 5510 Hollywood Boulevard, LOS

Angeles, California.

3/28/28 TEMPLE, TEX (MAN 87)

Ashmore, James Wilbourne, aka J. C. Hardin;

FBI

#4869529.

Harrison, Anthony; male, blacki 1968 address:

2134

West View Street, Los Angeles, California.

Bennett, Louise Emily, aka Lou Tomeny; female;

white; 1968 address:

175 North Orange Drive,

Hollywood, California; arrested on 5/15/67. in

Los Angeles, California.

Stoddard, Allan Lee, aka "Oklahoma"

, aka

"Oklahombe"; male; white; 1968 work address:

5510 Hollywood Boulevard,, Los Angeles, Califor-

nia; originally from Enid, Oklahoma.

(see. our letter of November 3: 1977, 32)

FBITI

-137146G

• Vernon, Jerome Wallis, aka Jay Wallis Vernon;

male; white; dob:

12/14/35; 1968 adaress:

•-1246. Woodbury Court, Los Angeles, California,

and 14 New York Street, La Crescenta, California.

558N 553-46-5896

541 #143. 22613.

• Stein, Charles Joseph, aka Charles Stein, aka

Charlie Stein; male; white; dob: 5/11/19;

FBI # 881 534

B.

(see our letter of November 3, 1977, '÷10)

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page. 81

---

## Page 82

-3 -

Stein, Rita, aka Rita Denenno,

aka Rita Rode,

aka. Rita Rosas; female; white; 1968 address:

5666 Franklin Avenue, Hollywood, California;

1977 address: 1104 Mary Poppins Street,

Gretna, Louisiana...

Martin, Marie, aka Myrial Tomaso, aka Marie

Deninno, aka Marie Martinello, aka Myralla

tomaso,

aka Myrial Hayden, aka Mimi Thomaso,

aka Mimi Hayden, aka Mimi Tomaso, aka Myrial

C. Hayden Gretna, aka Marie Martin DeGrasse,

aka Marie DeGrasse, aka Marie Latimer; aka

• Mimi Latimer, aka. Myrial Latimer, aka Marie

Calloway, aka Marie Callaway; female; white.

dob: 10/7/32; arrested numerous times in

New Orleans and also. in Los Angeles, California.

Lee, Marie; female, white; 1968 address: 1429.

Burgundy, New Orleans, Louisiana, 2001 Clair

Ave., Gretna, Louisiana.

Loudenback, Donald; male, white; approximately

60 years old; 1968 address:

1755 Wilcox Street,

Los Angeles, California.

Your prompt attention to this request will be most

appreciated.

Very truly yours,

1. Bhut Blaby

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

cc: Danny O. Couison

GRB: mkk

MW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 82°

---

## Page 83

!

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention:

Mr. Robert L.. Keuch

JADERAL COVERARZ

Director, FBI

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (#SCA)

January 19, 1978

1 - Mr. Foster

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, AStA, dated

December 5, 1917, which, in connection with the HSCA's

Investigation Into the assassination of Mertin Luther King,

Jr., requested information concerning 17 listed individuals.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a menorandum

In response to the above request. It 1s requested you furnish

a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the ESCA.

Enclosures - 2

1. Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure)

JTA : sas

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

REGAS 62-117210-510X

2A MAR 16 1978

2- ENCLOSURE?

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. _

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Diras

Adm. Serv..

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Pers..

Ident. -

Intell.

Laboratory -

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp. -

Roc Mgnt. -

Spec. Inv. -

Tech, Servs. -

ster

Training -

Publie Affs. Off._

R507

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y

58 MARQ A 978 LETYPE UNIT O

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Pags

83

ATL INTOT INTO CONTAINED

DATELYON

1/20/78

3654 10611

delivery t

1..r

stRe

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 84

Assistant Attorney General

. Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NoTE: In this request

later delivery of the material desire for immediate access and

made of this material at the present time. After review, the

Committee can determine: If delivery is necessary.

1-2.

IN 600000.

Ho cHeST 30207541.

THE RA-

---

## Page 85

•.

1 - Mr. Foster

January 19, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE

• OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

• Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

December 5, 1977, which, in connection with the HSCA's

Investigation Into the assassination of Martin Luther King,

JI.; requested information concerning 17 listed Individuals.

This letter is to advise that, in response to the

above request, all retrievable information In FBI Headquarters

files, Including Identification Division Criminal Records where

located, has been prepared for HSCA access at FBI Headquarters.

Where Information is not provided, it 1s either not retrievable

from Headquarters files or is not being produced pursuant to

the Memorandum of Understanding-

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH, AND ONE SENT TO OFFICE

OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

NOTE:

See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, Attention:

Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 1/19/78,

captioned,

"House

Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House

of Representatives (HSCA).."

AssociDir. -

Dep. AD Adh. =

Dep. AD invo i

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. =m

Crime Into a

in. & Pers. -

Laboratory =

Legal Coun. -

Plon. & Insp. =

Rec Mgni.-.

Wipe

I.....

His di

Атасраки

62-117 290-5101

MAIL ROOM

DocId: 32969751

TELETYPE UNIT. L

ENCLOSURE;

NW

Tech, Servs.==

Training.

Publie Affs, Off.=

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y-

55061

Page 85

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 86

#*=-

LOUIS STOKES, ONIO, CHAIRS

RICHARDSON MECYEN, IAL:

SAMUFI

LUINE. OHIO

HALTIN E, FAUATAOY, D.G.

STEVIAH

fICKINNEY. CONN.

YVONNE DHATHWAITE DURKE, CALIF.

•CHAFILLS THO:E, MCCH.

CHHISTOPHER J. DOOD. COYY.

HARSLO I JAWYER, MICHI.

HAROLO E. FOHO, TRIN.

FLOYD S. TITHIAL, INNO.

MODERT W. EDJAN, PA.

(202) 225-4524

preced.

Xlea. 7 2:30 pm 1977

deshigen

Sclett Committee on Assassinations

U:S. Mouss of Ziepresentatives

3338 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

DEC 5

1977

INW

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

20530

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by the Select

Committee on Assassinations into the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, Jx., we would appreciate: (1) the complete

FBI Identification Division Criminal Records and (2) any

. DOJ file references concerning the individuals mentioned

below.

We would appreciate immediate access to this infor-

mation and later delivery.

The information following eạch

name may be helpful in locating relevant files:

, Flikeia, Thomas M., aka Tom Flikeia, aka

T.M. Flikeid; male; white; FBI # 5340 39D;

SSN 475-32-9225; 1968 address:

1831

Gramercy Place, Hollywood, California;

or L83l North Gramercy, Hollywood, California;

employed by: Hollywood 'Carpets, 2952 West

Piço Blva., Los Angeles, California (1967) ..

Flikeid, Susan, aka Susan Lée Harris, aka Sue

Harris; female; white; dob: 4/12/42; 1968

address:

1831 Gramercy Place, Hollywood,

California,.or 1831 North Gramercy, Hollywood,

California; arrested in Hollyvood,

California

... Oin 4/27/67 and 5/15/67, FBI # 525 505 G.

1A Cine)

Dennis, Dyell, aka Darrell Dennis, aka "Jeri",

remale; white; 1968 address: 435 W. Michigan

Street, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; prior to that

¿iddress, she lived in Los Angeles, California.

: + 62-11)290-510X

55061 DooId: 32989751

Page 86

---

## Page 87

= ?

-

Bonelli, John R., aka John R. Beffel, JI-i

male; white; dob: 5/12/32; 1968 address:

175 North Orange Drive, Hollyvood, Califor-

nia; 1967 address: 603 North New Hampshire

Avenue, Los Angeles, California; arrested

to

in Los Angeles, California on 5/15/67.

(see our letter of November 3, 1977, $20)

Katzwinkel, Anita Louise; female; white; dob:

-6/27/47; pob: Mendota, Illinois; 1968

addresses:

1727 North Garfield Place, LOs

Angeles, California and 1831 North Gramercy

Hollywood, California, or 1831 Gramercy Place

Hollywood, California; 1967 address: 1535

North Serrano, Los Angeles, California.

Day, Ginger, aka Ginger Nance, aka Ginger

Cunningham; female; white:. 1967 address:

1535 North Serrano, Los Angeles, California.

Heller, David; male, white; 1968 work address:

Vegas Club, 5510 Hollywood Boulevard, Los

"Angeles, California.

3/28/28 TEMPLE, TEX.(MAIN87)

Ashmore; James Wilbourne, aka J. C. Hardin;

FBI # 4869529:

Harrison, Anthony; male, black; 1968 address:.

2134

West View Street, LOS

Angeles, California.

Bennett, Louise Emily, aka Lou Tomeny; female;

white; 1968 address: 175 North Orange Drive,.

HOLLywOOd, Calitornia, arrestea On 5/15/67 in

LoS Angeles, California.

Stoddara, Allan Lee, aka "Oklahoma"

: aka

"Oklahombe"; male; white; 1968 work address.:

5510 Hollywood Boulevard,: Los Angeles, Califor-

nia; originally from Enid, Oklahoma.

(See. our letter of November 3, 1977, #32)

M/M SSAN 441-44-7080

5B14727146G

• Vernon, Jerome Wallis, aka Jay Wallis Vernon;

mile; white; dob:

12/14/35; 1968 adaress:

•-1246 Woodbury Court, Los Angeles, California,

and 14 New YOrk Street, La Crescenta, California.

w/m-SSAN. 553-46-5406 FBI #743 226B

Stein, Charles Joseph, aka Charles Stein, aka

Charlie Stein; male; white; dob: 5/11/19;

FBI # 881 534 B.

• (See oux letter of November 3, 1977; #10)

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 37

---

## Page 88

-. 3-

Stein, Rita, aka Rita Denenno, aka Rita Rode;

aka. Rita Rosas;: female; white; 1968 address:.

5666 Franklin Avenue, Hollywood,. California,

1917 address:

1104 Mary Poppins Street,

Gretna, Louisiana.

Martin, Marie, aka Myrial Tomaso, aka Marie

Deninno, aka Marie Martinéllo, aka Myralla

Tomaso ,

aka Myrial Hayden, aka Mimi Thomaso,

aka Mimi Hayden, aka Mimi

Tomaso, aka Myrial

•C. Hayden Gretna, aka Marie Martin DeGrasse,

aka Marie DeGrasse, aka Marie Latimer, 'aka.

Mimi Latimer, aka Myrial Latimer, aka Marie.

Calloway, aka Marie Callaway; female; white

dob:

10/7/32; arrested numerous times in

New Orleans and also, in Los Angeles, California.

Lee, Marie; female, white; 1968 address:

1429.

Burgundy, New Orleans, Louisiana, 2001 Clair

Ave., Gretna, Louisiana.

Loudenback, Donald; male, white; approximately

60. years. old; 1968 address: 1755 Wilcox Street,

Los Angeles, California.

Your prompt attention to this request will be most

appreciated.

Very truly yours,

D Bhut Blishy

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

cc: Danny O. Coulson

• GRB: mkk

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 88

---

## Page 89

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

TORAL GOVAREN. January 19, 1978

1 - Mr. Foster

Director, FBI

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSNATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. (ESCA)

Reference As made to lotter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

NOVember 30, 1977, Which requested Information from fBI

Headquarters. files in the investigation of Martin Luther King's

assassination.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum

advising that material concerning Items 1 and 3 of the above

reguest has been processed and is available for HSCA access at

FBI Headquarters. It is requested that you furnish a copy of

the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

Enclosures - 2

1 - Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure)

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

ATL I

1 15-77

DATE1-13.86

Assoc. Dir. =

Dep. AD Adh. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _i

Crim. Inv. -

Fin. & Pers. -

ent. -

tell. c

Laboratory =

Legal Cour. -

2- ENCLOSURE

Plan. & Insp. _E

Rec Mgnt. -

Spec. Inv. —

Tech. Servs._

Training -

Public Affs. Offen

Telephone Rm..

Director Sod -

IMAR TAB ROOST

I NW 55061

Docid: 32989751

TOLED

(IND

-EX

REC-56

ST-131

62-117290-518

2 MAR 15 1978

міликс

XN

famous is louden

365Y for

delevery-

TELETYPE UNIT E

Sue 89

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 90

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE:

Based on the time period of interest to the HSCA, only

Sections 63 through 83 of the King Security File have been

prepared for HSCA access.

All five sections of the Sanitation

Workers Strike file fall within the time period of interest to

the HSCA.:

To date,

Congressional Inquiry Unit procedure has been

to remove classified information from material being prepared

for HSCA access and to make the

upon request only to HSCA staff members with appropriate security

star?

classified material available

clearance. Since most staff members now have their clearances

and the volume of classified serials involved in this request. is

considerable, all classified information 1s being left in the

material processed for the HSCA.

will insure that only HSCA staff members with security clearances

will be granted access to these files.

-.2 -

I NW 55061.

DocId: 32989751

Page 90

---

## Page 91

January 19, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, ASCA, dated

November 30, 1977, which requested information from FBI

Headquarters files in the investigation of Martin Luther King's

assassination.

Among other items, this letter specifically

requested the following:

(1) The main security file on Dr. Martin Luther King,

JI., for the period January 1, 1967, through May 1, 1968.

(3) The file on the Memphis Sanitation Strike for the

period January 1, 1968, through May 1, 1968.

This memorandum 1s to advise that material in response

to the above items has been processed and is available for HSCA

access at FBI Headquarters.

it is either not retrievable from FBI Headquarters files or 1s

not being produced pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding.

By FBI memorandum dated November 1l, 1977, you were

advised that material in response to Items 2 and 5 of the request

of November 30, 1977, were completed. Processing of Item 4 is

being conducted and you will be advised upon its completion.

It should be noted that in preparing the above-mentioned

material,

because numerous documents involved are classified, no

removal

of classified documents was made.

Therefore, HSCA reVIeW

of this material should be restricted only to HSCA staff members

Assoc. Dir. -

possessing security clearances.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep, AD Inv. JTA:rfw: sa's)

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _i

Crim. Iny. -

Fin. & Pers. -

Intell ORIGINAL

Intell..

ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

Laboratory DIVISION,

ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH & ONE SENT TO OFFICE

Lian CoOF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

Rec Mgnto e

Spec. Iny. -

...L. I

Tech. Servs =

62-117290-510

Training -

dar died

Public Affs. Off.-

I 1-12-9640

Telephone Rm. =

Director's See'y-

MAIL ROOM.L

55061 DocId 32989751

Аласасрак

TELETYPE UNIT

ENCLOSURE

Page 91

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 92

House Select Committee on Assassinations

NOTE: See Director, FBl, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, Attentión:

Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 1/19/78,

captioned, "House

Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House

of Representatives (HSCA.)."

= 2=

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 92•

---

## Page 93

LOUIS S70N66, 0810, SUAHUST

SINUEL L..

1:.N1TE UURNE. CALIF.

1070sa Sixty 0055

robie: +010.954960

C011784E5 711945,16504

MIRILOS.

E78,111519.

02ЕНТ14. 80бАД.НА.

(202) 225-4523

Salect Coumittee Di

SEinations

C1. E. House dê diepresentatioco

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 23515

MON SO 1977

FERRINED

Tralaf

.: Ais

Dẹc 1 4 06 FF IS77

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D..C. 20530

Attention:

Mr. Robert I..Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, RoOM 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, JI., it is requestea

that the FBI provide the Committee with following materials:

1. The main security file on Dr. Martin Luther King,

JI. for the period January 1, 1967 through May i,

1968.

• :

2.

The main file on the Southern Christian Leadership

Conference fox the period January 1, 1967 through

Mày 1, 1968.

3. The file on the Memphis Sanitation Strike for the

period January 1, 1968 through way 1, 1968.

4.

The file on Do. Martin Luther King, JI./POOI People's

March for the period December 1, 1967 through Nay 1,

1968.

5.

all materials pertaining to tartin Luther King, JI.

and the SCiC in the COINIELPRO file.

•Inis letter supercedes the earlier reguests relative to

these files found in the Connittee letters of november 3, 1917

and November 8, 1977.

Iit to AAGICA

111917E (Enc-2)

JAirfu:sas

1- OLA (ENE)

NW-55061-DocId: 32989251 Page 93

62-117290-510

ENCLOSURE

---

## Page 94

-2-

" Your prompt attention to these matters will be greatly

appreciated.

very truly yours,

825206513603

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director.

GRB = mea

CC

Mr. Danny O. Coulson

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 94

---

## Page 95

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

Director, FBI

January 12, 1978

] - Mr. Foster

1 - Mr. Aldhizer

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

AST IT

mines div

25?

D.131-13184

_ Вкртаети

Reference is made to the letter to ir. Robert Keuch,

Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, from

Robert Blakey, Chief counsel and Director, ESCA, datec

October 7, 1977.

This letter requested addresses of thirty

we on thirty-

two FBI agents which the HSCA plans to interview in çon-

nection with its investigation concerning the assassination

of Martin Juther King, Jo

By letter to the Attorney General from fir: Blakey,

dated November 8, 1977, the HSCA requested, among other 1tens,

that five FBI agents, two of whom were named in the letter of

October 7, 1977, be notified and made available for interview

by the HSCA.

By letter to the Attorney General from hir. Blakey,

dated Novenber 9, 1977& the HSCA requested, among other Items,

that twelve FBI agents, ten of whom were named in the request

o1 october is Lyll, be made avatiale for interview by the

risth on a priority

basis.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum

in response to the above requests. It is noted that responses

to all other items in IStA letters of Hovember o, 1977, and

November 9, 1977, have been previously submitted. It is

requested you furnish a copy of the enclosed nemorandum to the

HSCA.

Enclosures - 2

REC-4562-117290=509X

Assoc. Dir. I Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure)

Dep. AD Inv.JTA : sas

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv..

Crim. Inv..

Fin. & Perso.

• (6)

ENCLOSURE

SEE NOTE, PAGE TWO

2 MAR 15 1978

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec, Mignt..

Spec. Inv..

Tech. Servs.-

Training-

Public Affs. Off._

Telephone Rm. =

to

delivered.

the

FBI/DOJ

55061

DocId: 3298920

Page 95

---

## Page 96

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: Upon agreement with HSCA, the specific addresses requested

In the letter of 10/7/77, are not being provided.

Instead; we

are making these agents, all of whom have been released irom

their employment agreement

, available for interview as needed Dy

the Committee.

Arrangements are handled Informally by

representatives of the Legal Liaison and Congressional Affairs.

Unit and the Congressional Inquiry Unit of FBIHQ.

This system

has worked satisfactorily and

to date fourteen of those agents

named, In these three requests nave been Interviewed by the

Committee. Others are expected to follow in the near future.

This letter will complete our responses to the HSCA

letters of 10/7/77, 11/8/77, and 11/9/77.

2

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 96

---

## Page 97

-

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Mr. Aldhizer

January 12, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

Reference Is made to the letter to Mr. Robert Keuch,

Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, fron

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, ASCA, dated

October T, 1977.

This letter requested addresses of thirty-

two FBI agents which the HSCA plans to Interview in con-

nection with its investigation concerning the assassination

of Martin Luther King, Jr.

By letter to the Attorney General from Mr. Blakey,

dated November 8, 1977, the HSCA requested, among other items,.

chat five ist agents, two of whom were named in the letter of

october To 1977, be notitled and made available for interview

by the ASCA.

By letter to the Attorney General from Mr. Blakey,

dated November 9, 1977, the ISCA requested, among other items,

that twelve FBI

agents, ten of whom were named in the request

of october T, 1911, be made available for interview by the

HSCA on a priority basis.

This memorandum is to confirm that to date all agents

named in the above letters have been located, have been cleared

fron their employment agreement, and can be made available for

Interview as needed by the HSCA. It should be noted that,

according to records of the Congressional Inquiry Unit, FBI

Headquarters, fourteen of these agents have already been

Interviered by the ESCA. If the HSCA desires Intervier of any

Assoc. Dir.

gUrA: sasgel(6)

Dep. AD AdORIGINAL

AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

•Dep. AD Inv.DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT I. KEUCH, & ONE SENT TO OFFICE

Asse, Dirs OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

Adm. Serv..

Crim. Inv. NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

In a Pors. Criminal Division, Attention:

Mr. Robert I. Keuch, dated 1/12/78,

In_captioned, "House Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House

Laborary-Of Representatives (HSCA)."

Legal Cour. -

Plan. & Insp. =

Roc-Mgni_

Spec. Inv. -

Tech. Servs. =

Training-

the

Public Alls. Oil.-

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y =

MAIL ROOM

NW 55061 DooId: 32989751

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 97

mined adie

dr a per".

--13184.

вкуриласти

ENCLOSURE

62-117290-50941

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 98

House feloct Cormittee on Assassinations

additional agents named in the above letters, arrancerents can

be made through contact with representatives of the legal Llalson

and Congressional Affairs Unft and the Congressional Inquiry Unit

of FBI Headquarters,

his letter will complete our response to stA letter

I October y, 1311, novender d, 1911, and November 9, 1914

-2=

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 98

---

## Page 99

191674

p.9r.88N, 88.C.

a YVONNE

AIMINAIIE, LUNKE, CALIF.

(HN55004919-84330.COrN.

•ECOND STORES, ONIO, CHAINM

JAMUELI

•BERWANTL

•COLANLIST

HAROLO 5.5A.

ALAMOLO I. POND, TUMM.

PLOYS J. FITNIAN,ID.

ROSEAT H. IUDAR.FA.

110. 0I110

"SPINLY, CONH.

(202) 225-4621

Sortect Committee on Assassinations

E.o. House ci licpresentatives.

S331 MOUSEOYFICEHUILDING.ANNEX2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

October I, 1977

Mi.

Robert, heuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. : 20530

gyLFE

ilis:

Dear Mr.

Keuch:

•Pursuant to our investigation into the assassination

of DI: Martin Luther King, Jt.y It is the intention of this

Committee and

lits staff to interview the following special

Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation:

Last Known Office

Name

Birmingham, Alabama

New Orleans, Louisiana,

1l1a178 End-a)

ITAIALLO

I-OLACEnEL

Chicago, Illinois

Alton; Illinois

INELOSURE

NW. 55061

St.

Louis, Missouri

DocId: 32989751

Page 99

• Henry. A. Snow

• Stephen M. Callendar

Thomas E. Duhadway

•Pierce D. Fournier.

Milliam F. Kusch.

Paul C. Hensel

James D. Hill

Thomas I. Colarelli

Patrick J. Collins, JI.

Phillip O. King

I. G. Shearer, Jr.

Robert Louis. Wertman

Edward J. Carney

Rene Dumain

Ramon H. Stratton

Ray. Wickman

Robert llaines.

Noseph Benson

62-17290-5097

Harold Dobson.

---

## Page 100

~ 2a

Last Known Office

Louisville, Kentucky

Name

Robert E. Peters

William R: Duncan

Bernard. C. Brown

Springfield, Illinois

William' Roberts, III

Atlanta,

Georgia

• Robert I. Kaas

• John E. Ogden

Alan G. Sentinella

Memphis, Tennessee

Robert Jensen

Joe C. Hester

George J. Bonebrake

Washington, D.C.

Robert Fraziar

Los Angeles, California

Leroy W. Sheets

Theodore j. A'Hearn

It is requested that the federal Bureau of Investigation :

provide the Conmittee with current addresses fox the above

listed indiviquals.

Your prompt attention to these matters will be greatly

appreciated.

Very truly yours,

Sri lobed Blsbey

G.

Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

MCE : GRB: ek

CC:

fir..

Danny 0. Coulson

NW 55061• DocId: 32989751

Page 100

---

## Page 101

SOV 8: 1977

The Honorable Griffin B. Deil

Sttorney General of the United States.

Deparimont of Justico

Washington, D. C.

20530

Attention: Hit. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant. Attorney General.

CaRinal DiViSiOn. Room 2113.

Dear Mi. Attorney Gencral:.:.

In connection with the invostigation of the Select

Commistee on Assassinatione into the death.of or. Martin

Inther king, jr., a conference was held on Hovember 7, 1977

batween employces of the FBi and members of the Cormittse

staff to discuss the Comnittee's Novenber 3, 1977 letter.

of requosi fo: FBI materials on thirty-five individuals or.

organizations. As a result of this necting, the folloring..

(a) The FBi would process the following numered.

requests as thoy were originally stated in the novender 3id.....

letter:

2, 4, 5: 76: 9-126-13-24, 26, 28-33.and: 35.

(b) The committee voula provide dates of births on the.

DoNE individuals in roguesto nos. 12 apa a1 before the isi route

procoss these names.

the dob on Roberts. forers, (request

110. 12) 15 8/5/24.

The aob on Roverend jesse Jacison. (request

• 10.

27) IS 10/8/41.

-."-

(c)

Besides prodiding the complete file on zequest no. 3

IT-Messe B. Stoner), the ini vould also naic availabic the nost.

appropraate case archts in iho office of origin assigned t

sioner. for the period 1908 thoough 1963.

with rueruck do remnone no. a, the fi cold peer

natoriale in its fiied at headquarters fo: 4967 d

wall as make availabie the apecontiate cure soone(r) ir tha

prico ui mirin ior ilie

1021.06.

"ENCLOSURE

62-117-290-50911

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 101

-...

---

## Page 102

(a) With sospect to somast 10. 6, the Committce rould

holi in abeyance such & icqueat until the FBI provides &

Iiet of the most copopriate case agentls) in the offices

of origán for the several. Klan organirations in existence.

In 2967 and 1958.

such was noc part of the under

standing roached at the tine of the meccing with FBI officials.

the Committec would iraquect

river that all natorials ceraced.

to the unitea man of Americals

Mur the period 1965 and 1265

be made roady foi inapection by lovenber 20; 1977.).

• (g) With respect to request no. 25, the Committce vill

Do nozei di aborance rca a roast until ina thi makes aval lable

the most appropriaie case agentls) for. the period in questio...

(h)

with respeci to sequest no. 34, the Commitzee

Dont recuosts that only the thirteen "death threat" filos on Do:

King be processed it this. cine, while a reguost for all other

materials is held in abeyance until the rBt makes available.

the most appropriate case. agents) ...

... :.. ..

In addition, the Commitlee vould aiso request that the

Following agents be notified.and mace available by the faI:

(3.)

Special Agent Willlame, Kusch - New Orleans

.. ..!

Special agent thomas ad. Duhadray - New Orleans

(2)

Succial Archt Jack B. Simpson - Memphis ATlaTin (Acrive)

special Agent Richard I. Davis - imhisATir ferretel

special Agent Jack I. raverstoin lehis Minter

404-638-8689

As a priority iten,

provide the Commitice with the work or personnel records of the

following thrce Louisville fit agents for the month of septenter

1965:

(1) Robert Peters"

•(2) Millzam Duncan

..

--11?

=..

.::"

LONG LANNIN

Would 1lso ask that ail three of the above mentioned Joujoviin

agenic be made arailable fos intosvion by the sanc date.

NW 55061• DocId: 32989751 Page 102

---

## Page 103

Your pront attention to those natters will ba

greatly appreciatca.

.........

Very truly yours,

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counscl and Directol

CC

Ni.

Danny 0. Coulson.

NW 55061 • DocId:32989751

Rage

103

---

## Page 104

Evove niterine

1. 0C.

SITE DUNNO, CALIT.

nos. coms.

+60438.9159195.10.

посыт те. восям, аа.

(802) 225-4888

Sadlect Committee on Elosassinations

€.8. Mouse of Brepresentatives

9591 HOUSE: OFFICE DUILDING. ANNEXE

WASHINGTON, D.G. 20515

NOV g 1977

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

•."...

Deax Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by the Select

Committee on Assassinations into the death of DI. Martin

Luther King, JI., it is requested that the FBI provide the

following materials by November 20, 1977:

Ao.

LET 1/17"

1.

The sub-files or investigative reports from Louisville,

Kentucky on the United Klan of America for the years 1965

and 2966.

All docunents and investigative reports on the Louis-

Till ville-based Independent Klan for the Years 1965 and 1966.

DONE B.

In addition it is requested that the following materials

be prepared (but are not needed by November 20, 1977) :

12114

OSIVE

1. Sub-files or investigative reports on the United

Klan of America for the period 1967 and 1968 for the

following cities:

a) Birmingham, Alabama 4

y'Atlanta, Georgia

Memphis, Tennessee

28

13l't

a)

e)

f)

St. Louis, Missouri

Ner Orleans, Louisiana 33

iLos Angeles, California 26

Louisville,

Kentucky 37

DONE

ET N/T.

INTA

55061

DocId: 32989751 •

Page 104

:: 62417290-50941

---

## Page 105

-2.-

Dorie

Dort

11/25/22

All documents and investigative reports for any other

Klan organization with offices in any of the cities listed

ii paragraph (B) (1) above for the period 1967 and 1968.

(the acquests

formulated in Paragraphs A and B above

modify and replace reguest no. "fin the Committee's

lettor of November 3, 1977). •

and (8) 118177

In addition, based on further discussions between the

Committee staff and members of the FBI and a review of an

FBI inventory of files pertaining to Dr. King, request no:

34 in the

same Conmittee letter of November 3, 197T IS

nodified to the following extent:

l. It is requested that the FBi not prepare the main

security file on Dr. King for inspection by the Com-

mittce until the Committee first has the opportunity

to speak with the most appropriate case

office of origin for the period 1967 and 1968.

requested that any

such agent be made avallable ov

November 30, 1977.

2..

Of the remaining volumes on Dr. King, it is requestea

that the FBI prepare

for inspection by the Comittee

those twenty-seven files indicated by staff Counsel

Michael Eberhardt in his cönference with the FBI

November 8, 1977. (In addition, it is requested that

the FBI. check the nature of the

six volumes appearing

on the inventory which are on microfilm.)

With respect to

the Committee letter of October 1, 1977

reguesting interviews with vasious FBI agents, the following

list of agents represented those who should be made avail-

able by the Fbi on a priority basis:

•1.

Thomas Duhadway

2. William Kusch

3:

Thomas Colarelli

4.

Patrick J. Collins, Ji.

5.

kene bumain

6.

kanon Stratton y

7.

Robert Haines ‹

8. Joe C.

hester

9. .

Coorra

it. Rolehraker

3.0.

Robert Frarror

-NW 55061

DocId: 32989251

Page 105

---

## Page 106

- 3 -

The Committee is ready to intorview these agents on

an inmediate basis:

In addition to the ten priority agents listod above,

the following two agents, not previously: requested, should

also be included on'a priority basas:

I..

2.

Robert F. Boyle - Nemphis

Harvey E. Glyfe - Memphis

Your prompt attention to these matters will be greatly

appreciated.

Very truly yours,

1. Robes Blockey

G. Robert Blakey

Chief. Counsel. and Director

,CC:

Mr. Danny O. Coulson

GRB : mek

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 106

---

## Page 107

/

start

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: It. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

FINAL COUSENISET.

January 11, 1978

I Mr, Bassett

I Mr Ryan

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Mr. Aldhizer

1= Legal Counsel

HOUSE SELECI COLMITTLE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. FOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

33?

Reference is made to letter to the Attomey General

Iron &. Robert Blakey, thiet counsel and Director, AscA, dated

November 30, 1977, which requested Information from FBI

readquarters files in the investigation of hartin luther King's

assassination.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a menorandur

advising that material concerning Items 2 and 5 of the above

request has been processed and 15 avatlable for ISCA access atl

FBI Headquarters. It is requested that you furnish a copy of

the enclosed memorandum to the ESCA.

Enclosures - 2

I - Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure)

1.

(9) 200

REC-56

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

62-117290-509

ALT"

57:131

61-13-16

Lad did dirtaine

тастака

VISHA

2 MAR 15 7978

Assoc. Dir..

Dep. AD Adh. _

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst.. Dir.:,

Adm. Serv. —

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Perso -

Ident. _

Intell..

Laboratory _

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp. =

Rec Mgni. -a

Spec. Inv. _m

Tech. Servs.

Training -

Public Affs. Off.-

gp

ENCLOSURE

for deluery

NIW

55061

DocId: 62989751

TELETYPE UNIT D

Page 107

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 108

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: Based on the time period of interest to the isCA, only

Sections 68 through 80 of the Southern Christian Leadership

Conference (SCLC) file have been prepared for HSCA access.

The Black Nationalist-Hate Groups Counterintelligence

Program (COINTELPRO) file (100-448006) was reviewed for the

period of interest to the HSCA, January 1, 1967, to May 1, 1968.

From this file approximately 25 serials relating to actions or

considered

actions against King and SCLC have been processed for

Committee access.

The Communist Party U. S. A. (CPUSA) COINTELPRO file

(100-3-104) was not reviewed for material pertaining to King or

SCLC.

There was previously conducted at FBIHQ a thorough review

Of COINTELPRO files. Summaries of all actions were prepared in

order to respond to Department and Congressional inquiries about

the scope and depth of the programs.

Therefore, serials in

this file pertaining to King and SCLC have already been identified.

These serials, approximately 15 In number from 1962 to 1968,

have been processed for the HSCA (100-3-104-34).

It should be noted that the majority of counterintelligence-

type activities against King and SCLC were carried out in their

substantive investigations and not under any COINTELPRO.

To date, Congressional Inquiry Unit procedure has been

to remove classified information from material being prepared for

HSCA access and to make the classified material available upon

request only to HSCA staff member with appropriate security

clearance.

Since most staff members now have their clearances

and the volume of classified serials involved in this request is

considerable, all classified information is being left in the

material processed for the HSCA.

The Congressional Inquiry Unit

will insure that only HSCA staff members with security clearances

will be granted access to these files.

Other Items in the HSCA request of 11/30/77, are being

prepared and upon completion a response will be submitted.

-2-

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 108

---

## Page 109

"I in to

January 11, 1978

1 - Mr.

Foster

1 - Mr. Aldhizer

Salmachmi?

HOUSE SELECT CONMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

November 30, 1977, which requested Information from FBI

Headquarters files in the investigation of Martin Luther King's

assassination.

Among other Items, this letter specifically

requested the following:

(2) The main file on the Southern Christián Leadership

Conference (SCLC) for the period January 1, 1967, through

May 1, 1968.

(5) All materials pertaining to Martin Luther Kings

Jr., and the SCLO in the Counterintelligence Program (COINTELPRO)

file.

This memorandum is to advise that material in response

to the above items has been processed and is available for HSCA

access at. FBI Headquarters.

Where information 1s not provided;

It 1s either not retrievable fron FBI Headquarters files or 1s

not being produced pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding.

Regarding Item 5, HSCA Staff Attorney Nike Eberhardt

advised on December 15, 1977, that only the FBI COINTELFRO

Involving the Communist

Party, U, S..A. (CPUSA) and Black

Nationalist-Hate Groups be reviewed for relevant Information

concerning King and SCLC. On December 27, 1977, Staff Attorney

JTA : sas

(9)

Assoc. Dir. -

DoO

Dep AD In ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

Asst. Dies DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH & ONE SENT TO OFFICE

Adm. Sew. OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

Crim. Inv..

Fin. & PersUQTE: See Director, FBl, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Ident Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 1/11/78,

" captioned, "House

Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House

Logol Coun Of Representatives (HSCA)."

Plan. & Insp. -

Spoc. Inv. am

Toch, Servs.-

Training -

62-117290-509

Publie Affs. Off._

Telephone Rm. =

Director's Sec'y=

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT ENCLOSURE

FBI/DOJ

NN 55061 DooId: 32989751

Page 109

---

## Page 110

House Scloct Committee on Assassinations

lark spelser advised that the perlod of ISCA Interest in tho

Black Nationalist-iato Groups COLMTCLPRO f1le could be Iinited

fron January 1, 1007, to May 1, 196%, to be consistent with the

tine perlod snaoified in other

Itens of the Hovenber 30, 2977,

reQuest.

It should be noted that in proparing the above -

contioned caterial, bocause nurerous docusents involved aro

classiled, no roroval of classified docurents wes mado.

therefore,

NSCA roview of this ratorial should be restrictod

only to HiCA staff nonbors possessing sacurity clearances.

• . .

- 2*

NW 55061

Docid: 32989751

Page 110

---

## Page 111

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIHMI

RICHIROSON PREYCIR, MS.

WALTEN E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

SAMUELL.

STEVART:

YVONNE DRATHSYAITE DURKE, CALIF.

CHAHLES TI

iNNEY, CONN.

NEDR.

CHRISTOPHER i. DODD, CONN.

MAROLO S. SANYER, MAIC).

HAROLO E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

RODERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4628

Select Committee on Assassinations

4.D. House de lepresentatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

NOV 3 0 1977

aFFICC OF

-CHEN SIONAL

DEe ! 4 06 PM 1977

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the

United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the death of DI. Martin Luther King, JI.; it is requested

that the FBI provide the Committee with following materials:

I..

The main security file on Dr. Martin Luther King,

Ix. for the period January 1, 1967 through May 1,

1968.

2.

The main file on the Southern Christian Leadership

Conference for the period January 1, 1967 through

May 1, 1968.

3.

The file on the Memphis Sanitation Strike for the

period January 1, 1968 through May 1, 1968.

4.

The file on Dr. Martin Luther King, JI./POOr People's

March for the period December 1, 1967 through May I,.

1968.

5.

All materials pertaining to Martin Luther King, JI.

and the SCIC in the COINTELPRO file.

This letter supercedes the earlier requests relative to

these files found in the Committee letters of November 3, 1977

and November 8, 1977.

1/178

62-117290-509

I-OLA(ENC)

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

ENCLOSURE

Page 111

---

## Page 112

.5

-2-

Your prompt attention to these matters will be greatly

appreciated.

Very truly yours,

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: mea

CC

Mr. Danny O. Coulson

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 112

---

## Page 113

FEDERAL GOVERNENT

Assistart Attorney General

Grininal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Reuch

Director, FBI

January 27, 1978

1 - Mr:

Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Div.

(Attn :

Mr. Coulson)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REFRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

Hovember 9, 1977 requesting intormation, cotectia ta ta

requesting InforMation in connection with the

USCA's Investigation Into the assassination of Martin Luther

King, JI. This lettér requested delivery of "Appendix C+

well as a list of any other appendices to the report öf. the

Department of Justice Task Forcé Which conducted a previous

revier of the FBI's security and assassination investigations

of King-

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum lE

which confirns delivery on January 25, 1978, of a copy of each

of the Appendix O volumes (12) in possession of the FBI.

These Department documents are presently stored at FBI Head-

quarters, per previous request of the oilice of Frolessional

stated that the Departnent of Justice would handle all other

aspects of the HSCA's request regarding Appendir &

te tee is that you furnish a coRes, the enclosed memorandum

to the HiSCA.

Enclosures - 2

ST-131

62-117290-508

1 - Dffice of Legislative Affaira

(Enclosure)

1 - Office of Frofessional Responsibillty (Enclosure).

'Assoc. Dir.=

JIA: saS

AD Adil _ (7) Do

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Sorv. =

Crim. Iny. -

Fin. & Perso _

Ident. =

Intell. -

Laboratory-

Legal Coun. _

Plan. & Insp. -

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

2 MAR 15 1978

MAILED 5

JAN 2 7 1978

HRe

FBI

Specilnv. -

Tech. Servs. -

Training_

Publie Affs. Off.=

Telep

Rm.

"NCLOSURE

HB

and when is t

1113-866

MR CAULSON

'Rom 3655

батакрахя

NW

55061

8197g1

*ROOM

DocId: 329

TELETYPE UNIT O

Page 113

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 114

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

VOTE: From December, 1975, to February, 1971, a Task Force of

the Office of Professional Responsibility (OPR), Department of

Justice, conducted a review of our security and

assassination

investigations of King•

Following release of its report,

Michael E. Shaheen, Counsel, OPR, requested the FBI assume

temporary custody of the 12

volumes of Appendix C of the OPR

report..

This was done in order that the documents could be

reviewed for classification purposes and for excisions if the

ISCA requested to see them. On 1/26/78, Joseph Gross, OPR

requested the FBI retain temporary custody of these 12 volumes

until the HSCA terminates its investigation into the King

assassination.

-.-

!

- — -

-

2

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 114

---

## Page 115

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Div.

(Attn:

Mr. Soulson)

January 27, 1978

HOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (USCA)

Reference Is made to letter to the Attorney General

from C. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

November 9, 1977; requesting Information In connection with the

ESCA's investigation Into the ascassination of Martin Luther

King, Ir. This letter requested delivery of "Appendix Of as

as a list of any other appendices to the report of the

Department of Justice Task Force which conducted a previous

review of the FBI's security and assassination Investigations

oj King.

By previous request of the Departient of Justice, 12

volumes of Appendit & are being temporarily stored at TBI

Headguarters.

these volumes consist of notes by the department

lask force, based upon review of ibs ding relaced tiles.

copy of each of the below listed volumes has been processed and

was delivered to representatives of the HSCA, Lance Svendsen and

Oliver Champion, on January 25, 1978:

Volume I - (top Secret)

Volume II - (top Secret)

Volume III - (Secret)

Volume IV - (Secret)

Volune V. (Secret)

Volume VI ~ (Iop Secret)

Assoc. Dir. =

Dep. AD Adn. -

Dep. AD Inv.

Volume VII - (Iop Secret)

Ess pincente

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.:

Crim. Inv.

(7)

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

Fin. & Pers.

Tel. ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CREDINAL

Laboratory

• DIVISION, ATTENTION:

MR. ROBERI L. REUCH AND ONE SENT TO OFFICE

- Legal Çour. QF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

Plan. & Inspe

Rec Mgnt. _

Spec. Inv. _

Tech. Servs.-

Training-

Public Affs. 0ff._

62-118290-508

Telephone Rm. -

Director's See'y -

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT O

CLOSURE

FBI/DOJ

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 115

---

## Page 116

Touce Eclect Cormittee on Assassinations

Volure VIII - (Iop Jecret)

Volume IX - (Secret)

Tolume X - (Sccret)

Volune XI - (l'op Sccret)

Volume XXI - (Unclassified)

Per roquest of the Dopartrent of Justico, the original

of thera 12 volures, plus a copy showing excisions made prior to

delivery to tho Cormittee, 1s being rotained at FbI leadquarters.

On January 25, 1973, Ix. Robert I. Bouch, Deputy

Aboistant Attorney General, Crininal Division, Departnent of

Justice, authorired dellyery of copier of these docurents

directly to the ESCA.

fI. Rouch advised that the Departrent of

Juctieo rould handle the romaining portions of the NSCA roquest

pertaining to Appondix G.

NOTE: See Director, FBl, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division,

Attention:

Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 1/27/78,

captioned,

"House

Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House

of Representatives (HSCA)."

NN 55061 DOOId 32989751

Page 116

-...

---

## Page 117

LOILS STONIS, ONIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDION PREYIA, N.C.

SAMUEL L. DEVINE. O)

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, I GOOd'

• BTEWART B.

YVONNE DRATIYATE DURKE, CALIF.

CHARLESTI

CHRISTOPHIAS. DODO. COMM.

HAROLO S.

HAROLO E. FORO..

TENN,

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

• HOSINT HY,LOGAY, TRI

(202) 225-4628

Select Committee on Assassinations

M.D. Mouse of siepresentatibes

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX'2

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20515

NOV&

1977

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Attention: MI. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation of the House

Select Committee on Assassinations into the death of

DI. Martin Luther King, JI., it has been learned that

" an "Appendix C" to the Task

Force Report of the Depart-

ment of Justice had previously been compiled.

believed that "Appendix C" collectively refers to at

least one volume of indices/summaries currently in the

possession of the FBI and approximately some fourteen

other volumes of similar or related materials

in-the

possession of the Department of Justice. It is requested

that this Committee be furnished with a copy of "Appendix

C" as well as a list of any other appendices to the Task

Force Report.

Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly.

appreciated.

very truly yours,

1. Robert Bols

•"C. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB; mea

CC

Mr. Danny O. Coulson

1/2717f ne-a

ITA:SAS

I-OLACENE)

1- OPIRCENC)

W 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 117

62-117290-588

"CLOSURE

---

## Page 118

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAI:

RICHARDSON-"REYER, N.E.

SAMU:

WAITER E. FAUNTROY D.C.

YVONSE BRATHWAITE CURXE, CALIF.

STEW:

CHAF•

_CHRiSTOPHETES, DODD. CONN.

HAM

• HAROLO E. FORS, TENN.

FLOYD S. FISHIAN, IND,

ROBERT VI. LOGAR, SA.

(232) 225-4524

FEDERAL COVERIES

ion Stouse

Select Committce Di-.

ations,

U.S. House of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

MAR 7 1970

Rec; 210

3/5/78.

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

U.S. Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

Attention: • Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

'Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

While reviewing FBI files previously requested in con-

nection with our investigation of the assassination of DI.

Martin Luther King, Jr., staff members of this Committee have

determined that access to certain additional information is

necessary at this time. The Committee therefore requests tha

the FBI make available for review the following files and

materials:

1. The Birmingham Field Office files on the United

Klans of America.

TREAT As

ORIGINAL

2.

All retrievable information on William Augustus

Somersett contained within the Miami Field Office

files.

+62-117290-503

3. A numerical break&ffn, nationally and by state,

(limited,.of course, to those states for which

files of the organization's activities have been

previously requested) of the Bureau's informant

coverage of the organizations set forth below..

The positions of the informants (i.e. rank and file

member vs. officer) within these groups should also

be specified. Any reports prepared by the Inspection

Division of the FBI on the quality as well as the

quantity of informant coverage of the organizations

is also desired.

The subject organizations, pre-

viously identified in our letters dated January 26,

1978 and February 28, 1978, are as follows:

62-117290 MAR 13 1978

a. United Klans of America

b. White Citizens' Council

c. Minutemen

d. Liberty Lobby

MW 55061. DocId: 32989751

18

---

## Page 119

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Page TWo.

e.

Black Panthers

Black Muslims

g.

American Nazi

h.

Party

Forever White

i.

The Sword

j.

The Fiery Cross

k.

The White Camelia

1.

The Silver Dollar Group

m.

Constitution Party

"the informant information we request for these organi-

zations pertain to the period of January 1, 1967 through

peccations

December 31, 1968. The locations we are primarily concerned

with include:

New Orleans, Louisiana

Birmingham, Alabama

Memphis, Tennessee

Chicago, Illinois

Atlanta, Georgia

Los Angeles, California

State of

Mississippi

* In addition to the aforementioned locations, with

"respect to item (m) we would appreciate your making available

"the"same information in St. Louis, Missouri and Miami, Florida.

With respect to items (a) through (1) above, the information

requested should be prepared for the following locations during

the periods enumerated:

Birmingham, Alabama - January-June, 1963.

St. Augustine,.

Florida - January-June, 1964

Staté of Mississippi - March-September, 1964

State of Alabama - January-June, 1965.

Additionally, it is necessary that we obtain access to

"wany files or records in the possession of the Bureau relating

...to.the individuals noted below:

1. Robert J. Reynolds - 3400 3/4 Walnut Grove Ave.,

Rosemead, California. Former address:. 1712 Santa

'Anita Avenue, Arcadia, California.

2.

Rev. Earl Anglin James aka E. A. Jones - Date of

birth: 4/23/01.

James is alluded to in the following

FBI files:

44-1574-1645

New Orleans 157-10673-1125

Los Angeles 44-38861-4461

New Orleans 44-38861-4464•

NW. 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 119

---

## Page 120

. "

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Page Three

4.

Mrs. Sun L00 - 962 Dundas Street, Toronto,

Canada.

5. Charles H. Sapp - 540 Grand Canal Drive, Miami,

Florida.

6.

Everett Kay - 8760 S.W. 4lst Terrace, Miami,

Florida.

Telephone: 305-221-5921.

7. Donald Lee Mitchell - Date of birth: 3/27/42.

P.O.B. Pochontos, Arkansas.

FBI #432652-D (X00 312)

8. Link Rodney - Whitehaven, Tennessee.

• 9. George R. Brachett - Work address: 330 W. 9th

Street, Hialeach, Florida. Home address: 10430

N.W. 36th Street, Miami, Florida.

10: Lauren E. "Skip" Hall - Kanville, California.

11. Henry Shand Tillman - Memphis, Tennessee

Your prompt attention to this matter will be sincerely

appreciated.

Very truly yours,

1. Robat Blokey

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ms j

Vcc:

Mr. Danny O. Coulson

...

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 120

---

## Page 121

SI0008 0622231

RR HQ

3 MAR 78 22

37 z

DE SI

RECEIYED

FEDERAL BUREAU

OF INVESTIGATION

R D322231Z MAR 78'

COMMUNICATIC YS SECTION

FM SPRINGFIELD (62-2567)

TO DIRECTOR

/(62-117290) ROUTINE

BT

Asso6, Dir.

Đep, AD Ađm.

Đep. AD Inv.

Asst, Bir.:

Alm, Serv.

Crim, Inv.

Laharatory

Leftal Coum.

pian. & Insp.

Reu. MMght.

Treon. Servs

Traiting

Pubitc Affs. Off.

Telephone Rm.

Directors Setsy

CLEAR

HOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

I RE SPRINGFIELD LETTER IO BUREAU (BUFILE 157-26213), AUGUST 13,

1975.

FOR INFORMATION OF THE BUREAU, RICHARD EUGENE GEPPERT OPENED

AS A SOURCE OCTOBER 3D, 197D, AND DISCONIINUED SEPTEMBER 1971, RE-

OPENED MARCH 1972 AND DISCONTINUED MAY 1972.

(DE)

ON MARCH 2, 1978, (FNU) SNYDER, REPORTER, GRANITE CITY PRESS

RECORD, GRANITE CITY, ILLINOIS, TELEPHONICALLY CONTACIED THE ALION

RESIDENT AGENCY AND INQUIRED IF THE FBI HAD SUBPOENED RICHARD

GEPPERT TO APPEAR BEFORE THE CON B@SSIONAL COMMITTEE INVESTIGATING

THE ASSASSINATION OF DR. MART IN LUTHER

THRE CEO ST. IBER HAO RE- 502

CEIVED INFORMATION IHAT GEPPERT, AN INDIVIDUAL FROM SI. LOUISE ANA O 107R

MISSOURI, AND A THIRD INDIVIDUAL FROM BLACKJACK, MISSOURI, TO -

62-117290

-1178

1-10-84

Page 121

---

## Page 122

PAGE TWO SI 62-2567 CLEAR

' APPEAR BEFORE THE COMMITTEE. SNYDER HAD TELEPHONICALLY CONTACTED

RICHARD GEPPERT OF GRANITE CITY, ILLINOIS TO DETERMINE IF HE HAD

BEEN SUBPOENAED AND GEPPERT HAD REFUSED TO COMMENT. SNYDER WAS

ATTEMPIING TO DETERMINE IF THE FBI HAD SUBPOENAED GEPPERI AND IF SO,

IF GEPPERT OF GRANITE CITY, ILLINOIS WAS IDENTICAL WITH THE GEPPERT

SUBPOENAED. SNYDER WAS INFORMED THAT THE FBI HAD NOT SUBPOENAED.

GEPPERT AND COULD NOT FURNISH ANY INFORMATION REGARDING THE CON-

GRESSIONAL COMMITTEE INVESTIGATING THE ASSASSINATION AS THE COMMITTEE

HAD THEIR OWN INVESTIGATORS.

SPRINGFIELD DOES NOT PLAN TO CONTACI RICHARD EUGENE GEPPERT AND

NO FURTHER ACTION IS BEING TAKEN, UACB.

BI

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 122

---

## Page 123

FD-36 (Rev. 7-27-76)

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

Facsimile

[X] A irtel

FBI

PRECEDENCE: :

• Immediate

• Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

I SECRET

O CONFIDENTIAL

DEFTO

• CLEAR

Date 2/28/78

Cd

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATTN:

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT.

ECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

FROM.

PONSAC, CINCINVATI (62-3518) (RUC)

SUBJECT:

HOUSE-SELECT COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

Buded 3/3/78

45'

Re Bureau airtel to AT 2/16/78.

Search of Cincinnati indices and appropriate

administrative and case files identified the below listed

enclosures:

By Cincinnati airtel to Bureau, captioned "FREEDOM-

OF INFORMATION - PRIVACY ACTS (FOIPA) , REQUEST OF JESSE B.

STONER, Aka., J. B. Stoner", identified information from

CI 389-C (RAC) * contained in Cincinnati file 137-1739-1B1

and advising location of original tapes.

Cincinnati file destruction list indicates file

137-1739 was destroyed in November, 1977, together with

tapes referred to in Cincinnati airtel identified-as-

137-1739-1B1.

Bureau instructions were received 1/30/78, under

destruction of field files and records indicating files on

J. B. STONER should not be destroyed.

One copy each of the following listed serials are

being forwarded per captioned request:

62-117290501

2Bureau (Enc.

REC- 1311/

-Cincinnati de Tel

Found Fin. 4501

MAR 6. 1978

RGW: mw

8188

(4)

дт

537779

Approved! 2: 1278

Nw

55061

DooId: 32989751

Page 123

Бараки Баріпасрока род

CLASS. REVA

Transmitted

(Number)

(Time)

---

## Page 124

CI 62-3518

1. Cincinnati airtel to Bureau 2/29/60,

captioned "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY:

RACIAL MATTERS".

2. Cincinnati letter to Bureau 2/29/60,

captioned "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS".

3. Bureau airtel to Cincinnati 3/7/60,

captioned "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS".

4. Cincinnati airtel to Bureau 3/9/60,

captioned "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS"• .

5. Cincinnati airtel to Bureau 3/10/60,

captioned "NATIONAL, STATES RIGHTS PARTY.

RACIAL, MATTERS".

6. Bureau teletype to Cincinnati, captioned

as above, received 3/11/60, not dated.

7. Cincinnati teletype to Bureau 3/20/60, •

captioned as above.

8. Cincinnati memo of SAC E. D. MASON 3/21/60,

captioned as above.

9. Bureau letter to Cincinnati 3/28/60₽

captioned às above....

10. Cincinnati letter to Bureau 3/29/60,

captioned as above.

11. FD-221a dated 4/27/60₽

12. Cincinnati airtel to Bureau 10/7/66:

captioned "MICROPHONE AND TELEPHONE

SURVEILLANCE"

13. Cincinnati airtel to Bureau 10/17/66 (date

changed from 10/14/66), captioned as

enclosure 12.

14.

Bureau teletype to All SACS, except offices

listed, 10/5/66, captioned as enclosure 12.

- 2 -

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 124

---

## Page 125

CI 62-3518

15. Louisville airtel to Bureau 11/19/59,

captioned "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY:

FORMERLY KNOWN AS UNITED WHITE PARTY:

RACIAL MATTERS".

16. Bureau airtel to Cincinnati 11/19/59,

captioned "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY:

RACIAL MATTERS" •

17. Bureau airtel to Louisville 12/24/59.

captioned as enclosure 16.

18. Cincinnati teletype to Bureau 3/16/60,

captioned

as enclosure 16.

19. Cincinnati teletype to Bureau and Louisville,

3/20/60, captioned as enclosure 16.

20. Cincinnati memo of Supervisor RALPH J.

RAMPTON 3/21/60, captioned as enclosure 16.

21. Cincinnati radiogram to Bureau 3/24/60,

captioned as enclosure 16.

22. Cincinnati report of SA ALFRED E. GARDNER, JR.:

4/11/60, captioned as enclosure 16.

23. Cincinnati letter to Bureau 4/15/60g

captioned as enclosure 16.

- Due to the type of investigation, Cineinnati--

classification officer recommending no specific classifi-

cation but leaving final decision to FBI Headquarters.

- 3-

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 125

---

## Page 126

LOUSSSTO(59,1110, CHAIRM

RICHANDSON PREYER I.C.

WALTER I. FAUNIHOY, D.C.

STEWA

YVONNE UNITAWAITE BURKE, CALIF

CHAHLE.

CONE. NEDI

CHAISTOPHER 3. DORD, CONH.

MANOLU 5. SAHYER, MICH.

HAROLE, FOrCE, TERM.

TOYO S. FITHIA, IND.

@MODIRT YI. EDDAN, TA.

(202) 275-4624

Hand delevered lug

HSCA staffer Tale Gerberg

NUDERAL GOVERNANI

Select Committee on Assassinations

Ti.5. House of Ricpresentatives

3338 HOUSE OFFICE DUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON. D. G. 20515

Rec. 610

3/0178

10 %

March 7, 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C.

20530

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attocney General

Criminal Division,

Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by the Committee

into the death of Dr. Martin Iuther King, Jr., it is requested

that the FBI deliver to the Committee the following documents

• from the files already prepared for review by the Committee

pertaining to William Hugh Morris:

I. HUA Hearings References: Activities of KKK,

89th Congress 2nd Session Part 4

a. p. 3398 - 10 page letter detailing MLK assassi-

nation offer for $25,000, planned attempt at

Antioch College

b. p. 3411 - Stephens testimony re: letter.

C: P. 3433 - Reference to Morris involvement

with obtaining dynamite

2.

References - 189-168-106

3.

Bufile 57-166-33: Office File 105-149

Reporting Office: Atlanta

Title:

Federated KKK Inc.

2/20/6? Report of SA Carl Claiborne

(remak by Morris regarding ki. ling of MiK)

4.

157-4390 (unrecord serialREC- 131

62-117290

Nemo. SullET. Baumgarder to 62-117290-

w. C. Sullivan, 2/10,66

499

TREAT AS

ORIGINAL

MAR 9 1570

54MAR 2119784

NW 55061* Dosid: 32999751

Page 126

---

## Page 127

= 2=

5.

157-3815-6 8/26/65 report from Cincinnati

(materials mentioning offer to kill MLK)

It is requested that the foregoing materials be prepared

on an expedite basis.

It is further requested that the FBI provide the HSCA

with a copy of any arrest record for William Hugh Morris as

soon as possible.

Your prompt attention to these matters is greatly appre-

ciated.

Very truly yours,

1. Rohit Blahes

G. Robert Blakey

. Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: mea

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751.

Page, 127

---

## Page 128

LOUIS SINK SI, ONIO, CHAIRMAN

•i RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL U

SHIO

SVALTER E FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWARA

YVONTE BRATHIVAITE BURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES

M-INEY, CONN.

SE, NEOR.

CHRISTOPHER J, DODO, CONN.

HAROLD SOLNIYER, MICH.

¿ HARULO I. FORD, TENIN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

HODZAT W. LOGAR, PA.

Stouse

(202) 225-4624

sand delivered by ASCA

stype Tale Gapesberg

MEDERAL DOVARIUEATE

Select Committee on Assassinations

-X.S. House of Representatines

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

March 3, 1978

3/1/25

10%5

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room

• 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the circumstances surrounding the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, Jr., it is requested that the Federal Bureau of.

Live tigation mate acces avasable to the doloring devest af

tive files:

1) All Headquarters and Field Office files on:

a. the bombing of the Gaston Motel, May 1963,

Birmingham, Alabama,

b. the bombing of Reverend A. D. King's house,

May 1963, Birmingham, Alabama,

c. the bombing of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s

house, January 30, 1956, Montgomery, Alabama,

d.

the attempted bombing of Dr. Martin Luther

King, JI. 's house, January 28, 1957, Mont-

gomery, Alabama.

1162-117290-491

Further, it would be apprifilled if the following Agents

were made available for interviews:

Norman Walter Philcox - Legat, Paris 1967-69 MAR 9 1978 ,

Moss Lee Innes - Legat, Ottawa 1967-69

Nathan I. 'Ferris - Legat, Mexico City' - 1967-69*

62-117290

TREAT AS

ORIGINAL

54MAR 21 1978

NW 55061/ DocId: 32989751

Page 128

---

## Page 129

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

March 3, 1978

Page 2

Your prompt attention to these matters is greatly

appreciated.

Respectfully,

В. Robes 3 labry

G. RObert BlaKey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB : ghd

Sec: Danny Coulson

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 129

---

## Page 130

2 MAR78 03 532

RECEIVED

LIMITED OF FEASTURN

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

BAGE DI

ACTION EUR - 12

LONDON 03364 0117597

INFO

ОСТ - 01

L- D3

ISO- 0D

1 Д28 W

H-D 1

MCT - D1 JUSE-DD

FBB885

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Alim.

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Ident

In'e'l

Latha'are

lagann '7.

Plan 9 11rg.

Rec, M-n'

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off.

Telephone Rm.

Director's Secy

FBIE-OD

-B77070

0283437 / 64

I NR - 10

Beguile

R D11752Z MAR 78

FM AMEMBASSY LONDON

TO SECSTATE WASHDC 3684

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE LONDON 03364

FOR H (ASST SEC BENNET) AND EUR/ NE

14-25

DE 65

E. O. 11652: N/A

TAGS: PINR

UK

REG 13 63-117290-77947

MAR 9 1978

SUBJECT:

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

7 MAR 241978

R287

LONDON

1641

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 130

---

## Page 131

THE:

•EMBASSY HAS RECEI

A LETTER DATED FEB 27

T HE

HOME OFFICE APOLOGIZING FOR THE DELAY OCCASIONED BY THE

NECESSITY TO CONSULI WITH THE COMMISSIONER OF THE

(LONDON) METROPOLITAN POLICE AND RESPONDING TO THE

SELECI COMMITTEE'S REQUEST FOR ACCESS TO BRITISH POLICE

RECORDS AND KNOWLEDGEABLE PERSONS CONCERNED WITH THE

ARREST OF JAMES EARLARAY AS FOLLOWS:

QUOTE I SHOULD PERHAPS BEGIN BY EXPLAINING THAT THERE A

LIMITATIONS ON CHIEF OFFICERS OF POLICE MAKING AVAILABLE

INFORMATION OBTAINED BY THEIR OFFICERS IN THE COURSE OF

CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS. CERTAIN INFORMATION WOULD, OF

COURSE, BECOME PUBLIC KNOWLEDGE IN THE COURSE OF CRIMINAL

OR, IN THIS CASE, EXTRADITION PROCEEDINGS BEFORE A COURT,

BUT THERE IS NO RIGHT OF ACCESS TO INFORMATION HELD BY

THE POLICE EVEN FOR MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT IN THIS COUNTRY.

THERE ARE ALSO PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES. THE ARREST

OF RAY TOOK PLACE ALMOST TEN YEARS AGO AND MOST OF THE

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

NW 55061 Doold: 32989751 Page 131

---

## Page 132

at...

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

PAGE D2

LONDON D3364 011759Z

OFFICERS CONCERNED WITH THE CASE HAVE SINCE RETIRED

FROM THE FORCE. INDEED, THE POLICE OFFICER PRINCIPALLY

CONCERNED, CHIEF SUPERINIENDENT BUTLER, IS NOW DEAD.

ANY OFFICERS STILL SERVING, WHO WERE INVOLVED IN THE

CASE, WERE OF RELAIIVELY JUNIOR RANK AT THE TIME AND MAY

NOT BE IN A POSITION TO GIVE THE SELECT COMMITTEE THE

TYPE OF INFORMATION IT MAY REQUIRE.

REALISING THE PUBLIC IMPORIANCE OF THE MURDERS WITH

WHICH' THE SENATE COMMITTEE IS CONCERNED, THE BRITISH

AUTHORITIES WISH TO CO-OPERATE AS FAR AS THEY CAN, AND

ARE PREPARED TO SEE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE COMMITTEE, IF

THEY COME IO THIS COUNIRY, AND TO FACILITATE THE PRO-

VISION OF INFORMATION BY THE POLICE AS APPROPRIATE. WE

SHOULD, HOWEVER, BE IN A MUCH BETTER POSITION IO HELP

IF THE COMMITTEE COULD PROVIDE IN ADVANCE THE INFORMA-

TION REQUESTED AS IO THE PURPOSE AND SCOPE OF THE

INQUIRY AND THE USE THAT WOULD BE MADE OF ANY EVIDENCE

OBTAINED. I SHOULD EMPHASISE, HOWEVER, THAT THERE

CANNOT BE ANY PROSPECI OF THE COMMITTEE BEING GRANTED

DIRECT ACCESS TO POLICE FILES. END QUOTE.

!

BREW STER

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 132

---

## Page 133

FD-36 (Rev. 7-27-76)

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

• Facsimile

AT A irtel

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

I SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

DEETO

O CLEAR

Date

3/1/78

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATTENTION: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT,

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

FROM:

SAC, BIRMINGHAM (66-2280) (RUC)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

Re Bureau airtel to Atlanta and other offices

2/16/78.251

Enclosed for the Bureau is one copy each of Birmingham

FD 142 dated 10/25/63, Birmingham airtel to the Bureau,

dated 10/28/63, Birmingham FD 143, dated 11/15/73, and

Birmingham airtel

to

the Bureau dated 11/26/73.

Also enclosed for the Bureau is one copy of a

set of handwritten logs and Birmingham memos pertaining

to Birmingham 292C during October and November of 1963.

The above represents all information available

to Birmingham with regard to the request made of Birmingham

by the Bureau and referenced Bureau airtel.

PRR: dsc

- Birmingham y

(3)

Letori

had Retained

Rm 8988

дта

62-117290-494

BA MAR

4 - 1978

AL. THI

BICT C9T2A00.59

approved; +:

Kith

55061 DocId: 32909751

Page 133

Transmitted

(Number)

Per.

(Time)

GPO: 1974 0 - 225-539

---

## Page 134

FD-36 (Rev. 7-27-76)

TRANSMIT VIA:

La Teletype

• Facsimile

[y Airtel

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

• Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

3 SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

JEFTO

O CLEAR

Date

2/28/78

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

FROM : SAC, CHICAGO (62-7385)

SUBJECT:

HOUSE SELECT

(ATTN: CONGRESSIONAL

INQUIRY UNIT,

RECORDS

MANAGEMENT

DIVISION)

COMMITTEE ON

ASSASSINATIONS

(HSCA)

(BUDED 3/1/78)

Re Bureau airtel to Atlanta dated 2/16/78.

Enclosed for the Bureau is a copy of the

following documents:

1)

Chicago letter to Bureau dated 7/13/62,

captioned,

"NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS".

2)

Chicago LHM dated 7/13/62, captioned,

"NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY, RACIAL

MATTERS".

The second source utilized

in this LHM is CG 6556-S*.

Information

furnished by this source is set forth

Chicago airtel to Bureau dated 6/8/62,

captioned, "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

aka. RACIAL MATTERS'

Lation or Ex-le survey da -11 acho 49.3

Bureau (Enc. 16), ENCLOSURE

11 MAR 7

1973

Chicago detor

batches

JPM/dcb

Km ga88

(3)

/ASS. REV.

"Approved:

MY 55061 BosTa: 32989751

Page 134

Transmitted

(Number)

(Time)

Per

GPO: 1977 0 - 225-539

---

## Page 135

CG 62-7385

4)

Bureau radi sat

Bureau radiogram to Chicago dated 6/13/62,

captioned, "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

aka.", authorizing misur survey.

5)

Chicago teletype to Bureau dated 6/16/62;

captioned, "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS", indicating misur installed

at La Salle Hotel.

6) Chicago teletype to Bureau dated 6/17/62,

captioned,

"NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS", indicating misur

installation discontinued and equipment

removed.

7)

8.)

9)

Bureau radiogram dated 5/2/59, captioned,

"NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY, aka.

RACIAL MATTERS", granting authority to

conduct survey.

Bureau radiogram dated 5/5/59, captioned,

NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS",

granting authority to install misur at

Atlantic Hotel.

Chicago teletype to Bureau dated 5/6/69,

"NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS" indicating misur installed

at Atlantic Hotel.

10) Chicago teletype to Bureau dated 5/1/59,

captioned

• "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

aka., RACIAL MATTERS" requesting authority

to conduct survey for technical coverage at

Atlantic Hotel, Chicago.

* 11)

Chicago teletype to Bureau dated 5/4/59,

captioned, "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY

o staCiMarat the questic authority

Chicago.

RIM 55961

DocId: 32989751

Page 135

---

## Page 136

CG 62-7385

12)

13)

14)

15)

16)

NIWA

HUD CON

chicago teletype to bureau dated 5/1/09,

captioned,

"NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS" indicating misur discontinued.

Bureau airtel to Chicago dated 5/15/59,

captioned, "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS" regarding symbol number

for misur.

Bureau airtel to Chicago dated 5/7/59,

captioned; "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS"

pertaining to misur at

Atlantic Hotel, Chicago.

Chicago airtel to Bureau dated 5/21/59,

captioned, "NATIONAL STATES RIGHT'S PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS" indicating misur equipment

removed.

FD-306 dated 5/6/59, setting forth informa-

tion obtained from misur at Atlantic Hotel,

Chicago, on 5/6/59.

-

3%

---

## Page 137

FD-36 (Rev. 7-271

TRANSMIT VIA:

Ú Teletype

• Facsimile

XX Airtel

AIRTEL

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

Immediate

Priority

Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

O TOP SECRET

I SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

DEFTO

D CLEAR

Date

2/27/78

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATTN: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT,

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

FROM:

SAC, LOUISVILLE (66-2612)

SUBJECT :-

HOUSE SELECI COMMITURE.

ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

Y8852

Is I

113-810

imagine

BUDED: 3/1/78

451

Re Bureau airtel to Atlanta, dated 2/16/78.

Pursuant to referenced communication, a thorough

review of pertinent indices and investigative files was

conducted on 2/27/78 by SA EDMUND V. ARMENTO, specifically

concerning a microphone surveillance of Dr. EDWARD FIELDS,

2/28/64 - 3/1/64, at the Sheraton Hotel, Louisville, Ky•,

by

IS 337-RAC*, during National States Rights Party (NSRP)

convention.

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau is one (1) copy-

each of all material pertaining to the authorization,

installation and removal of IS 337-RAC* and all communications,

logs and transcripts containing surveillance results, as

described below:

Enclosurely Serial Description

1

Louisville airtel to Bureau,

Location

IS 66-914-215

captioned "NSRP,". dated

2/12/64

Louisville teletype to Bureau

IS 66-914-216

and Birmingham, captioned

2-Bureau

(ta to ta 3/2 9 62-112220-4972

2-Iouisville (1-66-2612)

(1-92-281B)

TE BAR & 1978

EVA/mIa

(4)

BENG

Approved:

Transmitted

(Number)

(Time)

Pears

COP0: 19770-225-539

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 137

---

## Page 138

++• 15 66-2612

Enclosure

3

Serial Description

Louisville airtel to Bureau,

Location

IS 66-914-217

captioned "NSRP," dated

3/2/64

4

Louisville teletype to Bureau,

IS 170-3-2

captioned "NSRP," dated 2/28/64

5

Bureau teletype to Birmingham

IS 105-271-2201

and Louisville, captioned "NSRP,"

dated 2/17/64

6

Birmingham

teletype to Bureau

IS 105-271-2206

and Louisville, captioned "NSRP,"

dated 2/25/64

7

Bureau teletype to Louisville,

IS 105-271-2209

captioned "NSRP," dated 2/17/64

8

Louisville report of SA WARREN I. LS 105-271-2260

WALSH, captioned "NSRP," dated

6/15/64 (cover pages only)

9

MISUR 10g Sheraton Hotel,

IS 105-271-1

Louisville, Ky., 2/28/64 -

2/29/64

10

Notes - Monitoring of

IS 105-271-1

Conversation, Room 532,

Sheraton Hotel, Louisville, Ky.,

2/29/64

Originals of all the above serials being maintainer

for House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) future

review.

2*

LIM

.Decid: 32989751

Page 138

---

