# docid-32293871-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

124-10212-10147

CR 88-14191-70

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, HAVANA

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/05/1958

PAGES:

2

- SUBJECTS:

MZF, B/F INT, ASSOC, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

---

## Page 2

Office Memorandum

SAUNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Director, FBi. (88-14191)

DATE June 5, 3058

-FRÓM

Logat, Havana (88-36)

DOMINICKESCIALO, WASN

FUGITIVE

TOES ES146,

F 72095

UEAP. - MURDER&

Reference Miant telephone call to Havana May 29 19586

the legat,

On May 29, 2958kthe Miami office telephonically adwised:

"Havana,

thetwintormatton had been received tron, an informant

in Miam that ANGELO LUIGIMPERO;

SIO #3153 who was also?

onnection with the same crime for which the subject is wanted,

frequenting the Tropicana Night Club in Havana and associating vich

CARE CLAREA LEFTY CLARK ASKaD aLIAS OfULLLIAM OTTO, BISCHOR

Miani top hoodlum,

, 1958, Pol As thur Neuran

sent gas nocatathe Hote Nacionaltand a close associate

Bid/riend sorterschorr,vas. contactad conceru log ANGELO: LUIGS DENG

5AC DOMINICK SCIALO:

should be, noted that Newman. frequent ty

orts ptschore/during the evening hourstat the Tropicana Nights informerion IDENTITS INTONnA

neither the photograph of pero nor scialo

was fonillarto. bin

PCI Newmp.advised that/an.addition he brOINfoRm/f

rever beard'ot either of these Individuals and had not observed them

inthe company of DISCHOET on any occasion.

Iron his past acqualatance

EPC. Newman, said that

hendid, not belteve.thar

BISCHOPE woLld toltrate unvone at the Troptcana mipht Clus: who was

wanted or norder in, the

Unsted States:

20826

On, May 29,

1958, WILLIAM OTTO BISCHOFF, with alias LBFIN

CLARK,

was contacted at his residence at the

Rosita de Horuedo Hotel

BiseNOrE, stated that both the subject and PERO were completely

unknowa

to bin and torts-knowledge he/had never not or seen them

us mos certain ho had not:

Releazan

seen them at the tronicana Nicht clüb

Decently.

Bischore noted that RERO sphotography taken io

Dress cobo: cocoablance to MAND YOX, the owner of the tropicala

aCht. Club, and that it. ior possible

that sonoone seoing him with rex

magic have nastaken FOxfor PERO. BISCHOrT statod that 1a tho evont

nonild advido

informatica chauld on the too on concorales

PERO ORGECIALO

the Legat,

REC 3.81-141.91-

37.0

t. - Burgau

i Mavana

(734

CE JUN 9 1950

88-1019110

800

NO! 1 7 1950

0 Jh

---

