# docid-32286661

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10195-10437

HQ

92-2781-214

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LABADIE, STEPHEN J.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/03/1961

' PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

LST, SUR, ASSOC, REL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

- 10/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

t.

v9.1

DooId: 32286661

49

Page

---

## Page 2

• Rajo t form

1053578-551

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Beporting Oftice

TAMPA

Office of Origin

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

SANTO

TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

Date

6/3/61

Investigative Period

5/18 - 6/2/61

Beport made by

STEPHEN J. LABADIE

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEBRING EX-114

Typod By?

afe

SIAPESEUS

REFERENCES:

Report of SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE, 5/19/61.

Tampa teletype to San Juan, 5/25/61.

Tampa teletype to Jacksonville and Miami, 5/25/61.

Bureau teletype to Tampa, 5/26/61.

lampa teletype to Director, 5/27/61.

rampa airtel to Director, 6/1/61.

-P-

LEADS:

Approved

Copies made:

JACKSONVILLE

AT RAIFORD, FLA.

Will report results of investigation at Florida State

Penitentiary concerning visit by subject and a brother ano

interview offinmate visited. This lead set forth by Miami

teletype to

Bureau and Jacksonville, 5/28/61.2

Spocial Agent

In Charge

Do not write in spaces bolow

77-2781-

214

REC- 44

14 JUN 5 1961

- Bureau

(92-2781)

-

-

Jacksonville

(92-7)

Miami {92-88)

San Juan

2

- Tampa

(92-1)

sifi di City $ 0-5.01

Con 41210

5S JUNIT

loaned to you by the PBI, and neither it nor its

contents are to be distributed outalde the agency to which loonod.

I. U:S. GOVERMMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1088 O JAATBO

DocId: 32286661 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

Investigation established there was only one

WILLIE MAE

JACKSON through records of the 1961 Tampa City

Directories and Tampa Credit Bureau check.

This WILLIE MAE

JACKSON listed residence at 29082 East Chelsea:

On 5/21/61, SAS THOMAS S. LOVERING and LABADIE

interviewed WILLIE MAL JACKSON under pretext of seeking her

for employment, at which time it was determined

she was.

not identical to the Negro maid employed at 2505 Bristol

Avenue.

On the night of 5/24/61, the Negro maid, dressed

in a white uniform,

at approximately 8:30 PM, was

observed

by SA LABADIE to go to the vicinity of

the 2500 block,

DeLeon Street. The 1961 Tampa City Directory reflects

the

following listings in the 2500 block of DeLeon between

Armenia and South Tampania:

2501 - ANNIE L. STEPHENS

2503 - ABR. GLOVER

2505 - JOSEPH DAVIS

On 5/26/61, SAS LIONEL E. BELANGER and LABADIE +

contacted a Negro male at 2503 DeLeon who advised there was

no person such as WILLIE MAE at that address. Thereafter,

pretext inquiry of a Negro female at 2505 DeLeon established

she was 79 years of

age,

had lived in Tampa for 43 years,

had a daughter named WILLIE MAE, but that her daughter who

works five

days a week was not interested in any other

employment.

She mentioned that her daughter was well paid,

liked her present employment for "TALLY's," and inferred

her daughter had been working steadily for two years.

It is poted Fisur of subject had to be suspended

due to the bank robbery at Tampa, Fla., on 5/30/61, which

was committed with the use of shotguns.

INFORMANTS

TP T-1 is Mr. and Mrs. P. PORTER DALTON,

PCI, who reside immediately adjacent. to sub-

ject's residence at 2505 Bristol.

i D=

COVER PAGE

182018430

DocId: 32286661

Page 3

---

## Page 4

TP 92-1

TP T-2 is FRANK J. FALSONE, JR., accountant,

who In the morning and afternoon on a daily

basis frequents the Columbia Restaurant,

besides having lunch there on a daily basis.

TP T-3 is A. J. GRIMALDI, President, Columbia

Bank, who resides two houses from subject's

• residence and who on a daily basis has coffee

in the morning and afternoon as well as lunch

at the Columbia Restaurant:

IP T-4 is JOE TRABA, JR., Gainesville, Fla.,

who is a roommate of EDWARD VALDES, who both.

attend University of Florida.. VALDES is the

boy friend of SARAH ANN TRAFFICANTE.

TP T-5 is TP 46-C.

TP 1-6 IS FRANK J. FALSONE, SR., CPA, PCI,

who formerly handled all of subject's

accounting.

+.

EX-

CovER PAGE

102.49031

• DocId: 32286661

Page

---

## Page 5

TP 92-1

information of any significance was obtained by him.

He said that he did not mention anything about his permanent

residence, and the general topic of conversation concerned

the Cuban situation.

On May 22, 1961, TP T-3 advised SA JOHN D. MEDAGLIA

that although he has known the subject all his life and that

although he resides in the close proximity of subject's

residence, and that although he had coffee at the Columbia

no no set at thousa

Restaurant in the morning and in the afternoon, as well as

lunch at such restaurant, he had not seen nor heard the

subject being

in Tampa, at his home, nor at the Columbia

Restaurant.

On May 23, 1961, SA LABADIE, while stopped at

the corner of Morrison avenue and Howard street, observed

subject in a 1959 white Chrysler bearing 1961 Florida

license 3W-12672.

Greetings were exchanged between the

subject and SA LABADIE, and subject was asked, "Where are

you going?" to which subject replied, "I'll send you a

report."

Subject then left the area

inasmuch as traffic

was heavy, and SA BELANGER advised subject immediately

returned to his residence at 2505 Bristol and entered same.

On the night of May 23, 1961, subject left his

residence accompanied by JAMES C. LONGO in the 1957 Chev-

rolet and was observed at the Columbia Restaurant employee

parking lot, after which time he entered the Columbia

Restaurant, after which time they both left the Columbia

Restaurant and proceeded to the area of the subject's home.

In the area of subject's home, they were observed to ride

around and up and down streets for a considerable period

of time, after which they drove to subject's residence and

were observed to stand in the bushes next to subject's

residence.

It was observed by SA BELANGER that subject

and

LONGO crouched behind the bushes when automobiles passed by.

Subsequently, LONGO left subject's residence and returned

directly to his residence at 4214 Riverview.

On the evening of May 23, 1961, JOSEPH B. HILL,

Agent in Charge, Intelligence Unit, Internal Revenue Service,

was advised by SA LABADIE that subject was presently in

Tampa and at his residence.

-3-

112-101131

DocId:32286661

Page 5

---

