OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 5010-106-05

MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

* UNITED STATES GOy?NMENT

| Ly : f
7 Memorandum.

vf DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

TO
_ rg SAC, CLEVELAND (92-748)

tle, COSA NOSTRA, aka.

. AR - CONSPIRACY
SUBJECT: (00: New York)

DATE

"114765

Re Bureau airtel to New York, 12/1/64,

Referenced airtel requested certain offices to be

alert f¢r Christmas get-togethers of the various "families"

in theig area;

CV 999-C* adivsed that on
JOHN

ure
31999 Gates Mills Boulevard, pe per
state at becatr ie large ga’
hear. any pertinent information, The

present at this party:

ureau (RM)
2-Detroit (RM)
2-New York. (92-2300) (RM)
15-Cleveland

{2 - a

1 = 92-179
92-527
92-607
92-662
92-176 :
92-981) +
92-545

92=236)
137-187)
92-563) ,
92-499) . 2k

Opoetrarenae

ee ee pet ep

E
y
as

(21) :
VHS 9 M2. 82

iy

ON :
64 JAN 6 1965

December 24, 1964,

CALISH; reported Commission member, had a party
various kinds of seafoods, ‘at his residence,

Pike, Ohio. The informant

héFing, He was unable to

informant said that he

was able to determine that the following individuals were

F- ‘i
203 BN Bobo sf. 923

Docld:32576369 Page 1


ae 7 ~
CV 92-748
JG. 710 listed t SSERTA, 11117 Woo Jana
Avenue, cleve lange Tor SHAT Pontiac

—tihasbe newerevete vita MASSERIA. S#reet Address
Directory shows this to be. small ~apaptment building
and,.one of the tenants is TO
associate of SCALISH. .

‘BA 180, listed to Laundry,.Dry Cleaning and Dye
House Works,. International Union, Local No..1,
1735 East 23rd,Street, for a 1962 Pontiac

hacuaet, 2 PMevADEN is the International Vice-

resident 3 Union. and is known to be
Tpesociated with the Cleveland "outfit". .

Se ISH, son of JOHN T, SCALISH is employed by

“this. union, It is’ believed possible that
MINADEN drove this car.)

. Cars were also observed which are listed to, and
known to be driven by, individuals whose identity was furnished
by CV 999-C#, These license tags will not be set out in this
letter, :

y January 2 and 4, 1965, CV,625-Pe advised he talked
with "BABE'é TRISCARO during the Christmas week at the Teamsters
union Wali; TRISCARO told informant he’had attended a party
at the home of JOHN T, SCALISH the’ afternoon before Christmas,
TRISCARO said GUCONAR at the table on the right side of SCALISH

and that,_ANGRIC ARDO (CV, 92-563) #at.on the left of SCALISH.

Seated on ere O's: -Pight s JOHN SAN FILIPPO. TRISCARO
told informant that DOMEN. TQ. was at.the party and also
that SOHN LECCE 5 tte. 92-499, President of Local 29?

Beer and Tage Driver: Teamsters Uni was present.
TRISGARO said rusaae LICE (JOHN J7\ FELICE, JR.), son

ee ees: JAPELICE SR.» a Tocal Unvonrorrrerary and" ae

a close friend of SKIPPY and.is from Detro

wer sent. Source advised that O'BRIEN is -
- snes to JA FFA and believes he may have been indicted
Be with HOFFA in‘Tennessee.

On December 24, 1964, CV 581-C-TE advised that
most Italian families celebrate the day before Christmas,
which is a strick fast day in the Catholic Church, by having
a dinner for the family and/or close friends, which dinner
consists of various types of seafoods, The informant said

oe.

| Docld:32576369 Page 2
