# docid-32290281

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10205-10057

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-299

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 08/28/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

GAL, ASSOC, BUSS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/22/1998

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290281

Page

289

---

## Page 2

Fryer 5-3-611

DECODED COPY

• Radio

xy Teletype

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad®.

DeLoach

Evanst

Malone for

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Ingram.

Gandy

DEFERRED

8-28-61

10:26 PM TJF

DIRECTOR

FROM SAC, CHICAGO

290054

GUS ALEXe

AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY. CG 6443-0 ADVISED THAT

GUS ALEX, FRANK FERRARO, AND SIDNEY KORSHAK ARE THE REAL

OWNERS OF THE ST. CLAIR, EAST GATE AND CROYDON HOTELS IN

CHICAGO AND THAT THE INDIVIDUALS FRONTING FOR THEM IN THE

OWNERSHIP OF THE HOTELS ARE LOUIS SILVER, PHIL SCHER, AND

AN INDIVIDUAL KNOWN AS FNU MACK. HE FURTHER ADVISED

THAT

SILVER IS PRESENTLY DEALING FOR THE OWNERSHIP OF THE AMBASSADOR

EAST AND WEST HOTELS AS WELL AS THE SHERMAN HOTEL AND THAT

THE TRANSACTION IS EXPECTED TO BE COMPLETED ANY DAY. INFORMANT

SAID THAT THE SON-IN-LAW OF SILVER, ONE ROBERT LIFTON, IS AN

OFFICIAL OF THE CONTINENTAL INVESTMENT CORPORATION, NEW YORK

CITY.

HE SAID THAT SIDNEY KORSHAK, ATTORNEY FOR ALEXAND HIS

ASSOCIATES, HANDLES THE INVESTMENTS FOR THE "OUTFIT"

"IN THE

ABOVE INVESTING CORPORATION.

PCI FRANK LA CROIX ADVISED THAT

LOUIS SILVER, OWNER OF THE GOLD COAST HOTELS WHICH INCLUDES

THE ST. CLAIR, EAST GATE, AND CROYDON HOTELS, RECENTLY

PURCHASED THE AMBASSADOR EAST AND WEST HOTELS FROM THE LAKE

SHORE MANAGEMENT CORPORATION, WHICH IS OWNED BY JOHN MACK

AND RAY SHER. HE STATED THE EFFECTIVE DATE WAS AUGUST 16

LAST AND THE ESTIMATED PURCHASE PRICE PAID BY SILVER WAS

$7, 000, 000. HE SAID THAT THE PURCHASE DID NOT INCLUDE THE

SHERMAN HOTEL WHICH IS STILL OWNED BY MACK AND SHER. IT IS

REC- 32

2_3182-299

"!?"

AUG 30 1961

Pande:

:.?;

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

_paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32290281 Page 2

---

