# docid-32201883

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

2/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER :

157-10003-10494

RECORD SERIES: AIRTEL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NEW ORLEANS

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE: LEE HARVEY OSWALD, INTERNAL SECURITY - RUSSIA - CUBA

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/24/1963

7

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

INTERNAL SECURITY - RUSSIA - CUBA

OSWALD, LEE HARVEY

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

Redact

04/21/1994

v9 i

DocId: 32201883

Page

1

---

## Page 2

1%:8,

FBI

Bstet bat 602145g/24/63

Transmit the following in

Via

2.4

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-8÷555)

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (100-16601)

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

IS -R-CUBA

REVIEWED BY FBWJFK TASK FORGE

ON 12/3/93 dol

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

Re Bureau letter, 8/21/63.

TOTAL DENIAL

Enclosed are nine copies of letterhead memorandum

concerning captioned matter.

#CONFIDENTIA SOURCES

Confidential Informant NO I-l is Identified as

The

who was contacted on 9/9/63 by SA WARREN C. DEERUEYS

sources mentioned in the characterization of the

Play

For Cuba Committee" are Identified

"Fair

as y

ând

Investigation of OSWALD 1s continuing, and a

containing the results thereof will be lurnisnea

report

together with the recommendation of the New Orleans Office

to the Buread

concerning further action concerning OswAlD.

5-4-93

138

4803

3) - Bureau (Enc: 9)

2 - New Orleans

Copy ic: Ciramüie

ONI/CSI, ECSI

by routing slip for into.

2114433

(JFK).

MRK/ Cv

(5)

WALL MEAN:

"EXCEPT MINE SHORMAY

REG 84

18 SEP 27 1963

DER

Nôns

A BI

Approvea

7 = 11023-63 6

Special Agent in Charge.

Sent -

d: i

.M

Per.

Doc1d:32201883 Page 2

---

## Page 3

UN FED STATES DEPARTMENT OF USTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Roply, Ploase Refer lo

File No.

New Orleans, Louisiana

September 24, 1963

_IFORMATI: CONTAINED

LEE HARVEY OSHALI

MILAL IS UNCLA SINIED

-AdE 5-4-93 BY 9803RDD/SK

On August 9, 1963, It. VIlliam Galllot, First JFIL

District, New Orleans, Louisiana Police Department,

advised that the following persons had been arrested on

Canal Street between Baronne and Carondelet Streets on

that date and charged wion disturbins the peace: Lee h.

oswala, Carlos Jose Bringuier, Celfo Macarig Hernandez

and Miguel\ Mariano. \

Gaillot said that Oswald, who claimed to-be

a member of the "Fair Play For Cuba Committee", was passing

out literature and became involved in an argument with

Hernandez and

Directorate.

The following material was being disseminated

by Oswald:

a yellow learlet captioned,

"Hands Off Cuba"

an application to join the "Fair Play For Cuba Committee"

and a pamphlet entitled, "The Crime Against Cuba" by

Corliss Lamont.

The records of the New Orleans Police Depart-

ment under Arrest Number 112-723 were examined on

August 27, 1963.

These records showed that Oswald was

arrested on August 9, 1963, by Lt. William Gaillot and

Patrolmen F. Hayward and F. Wilson of the First District.

He was charged with "disturbing the peace by creating a

scene.

The records showed trat oswald claimea to be a

nember of the "Fair Play For Cuba Committee"

and was

passing out circulars in the 700 block of Canal Street

and became involved in an argument with three Cuban

Immigrants.

Joseph Lesslie, Office of the Clerk of Court,

Municipal Court, 501 North Rampart Street, advised on

August 28, 1963, that Oswald appeared before Second

Municipal

court Juage Eavin A. Babylor on August 12, 1963,

and entered a plea oi guilty

to the crarge of disturbing

REPO

the peace by creating a scene and was sentenced to pay a

fine of $10.00 or serve ten days in ja1l.

Oswald elected

to pay the fine.

Mr. Lessile advised that the three

Depersong arrested with Oswald were discharged.

Doc1d:32201883 Page 3

---

## Page 4

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

Confidential Informant NO T-1 who 1s

familiar with Cuban activities in the New Orleans

area advised on September 9, 1963, that Oswald was

unknown

to the Informant.

Frank Bartes, 1608 Mason Smith Avenue, New

orleans, Louisiana, who is a

delegate to the Cuban

Revolutionary Council In New Orleans, advised on

September 10, 1963, that Oswald was unknown to him.

This document contains neither re-

commendationg nor conclusions of

the FEl. It is the proporty of the FBI

and is leaned to your agency; it and

its cantonio are not to de distribut-

ed outside your agency.

RET

=..

DEC 1 1975

2

DocId:32201883 Page 4

---

## Page 5

APPENDIX

• FAIR PLAY FOR CURA CONITTEE

The April 6, 1950, edition of "The New York

Times" newspaper contained a full-page advertiserent

captioned "What Is Really liappening In Cuba,"

placed

by the fair Play for Cuba Committee (EPCC).

This

advertisement announced the formation of the FPCC in

New York City and declared the FPCC Intended to pro-

mulgate

"the truth about revolutionary Cuba" to

neutralize the distorted American press.

"The New York Times" edition of January 11,

1907, reportea that at a hearing conducted berore the

United States Senate Internal security subcommittee or

January 10, 1961, Dr. Charles A. Santos-Euch Identified.

himself and Robert Taber as organizers of the FPCC. He

also testified he and 'Taber obtained funds from the

Cuban Government which were applied toward the cost of

the afore-mentioned advertisement.

On May 16, 1963, a source advised that during

the first two years of the FPCC's existence there was a

struggle between Communist Party (CP) and Socialist

Workers Party (SiP) eiements to exert their pover within

the FPCC and thereby irfluence FeCC policy.

during the past year this source observed there has been

a successful effort by FPCC leadershio to minimize the

role of these and other organizations

in the FPCC so

that today their influence 1s negligible.

on May 20, 1963, a second source advised that

the National Headquarters of the FPCC is located in

Room 329 at 799 Broadway, New York City.

According to

this source, the position of National Office Director

was created

in the Fall of 1962 and was filled by Vincent

"Ted" Lee, who now formulates FPoC policy.

This source

observed Lee has folloned a course of entertaining and

accepting the cooperation of many other organizations

including the CP and the SiP when he has felt it would

be to his personal benefit as well as the FPCC's.

ever, Lee has indicated to this source he has no intention

of permitting FPCC policy to be determined by any other

organization. Lee feels the FPCC should advocate resumption

of diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States

and support the right of Cubans to manage their revolution

Without interference from other nations, but not support

the Cuban revolution per se..

DEC 1 1975 The CP and the SP have been designated pursuant

to Executive Order 10450.

APPENDIX

DoCId: 32201883

Page 5

---

## Page 6

APPENDIX

CORLISS LAMONT

On September 28, 1953, Louis F. Budenz

testified

before the United States Senate Permanent

Investigations subcommittee that Earl Browder,

head of the Communist Party (CP) in the United States,

had referred to Corliss Lamont as one of the "four

prides"

of the CP because Corliss Lamont was ready

to cooperate with any Communist front or any Communist

cause.

Browder made this deference at a National

Committee meeting of the CP in the early 1940's.

Budenz also recalled that Lamont was a member of the

CP when he, Budenz, was a member.

"RIghts"

, self-identified as a publicatior

of the Emergency Civil Liberties Committee (ECLC

April - May, 1902 issue,

reveals

Corliss Lamont 1s

Vace-Chairman of the ECLC.

APPENDIX

ULL 1 1975

DocId: 32201883

Page 6

---

## Page 7

APPENDIX

EMERGENCY CIVIL LIBERTIES COMMITTEE

The "Guide to Subversive Organizations and

Publications," revised and published as of December 1,

1961, prepared and released by the Committee on Un-

American Activities, United states house of Represent-

atives, Washington, D.C., contains the following con-

cerning the emergency civil Liberties Committee:

"Emergency C1v11 Liberties Committee

"1.

'The Emergency Civil Liberties Committee

1s an organization with headquarters in

New York, whose avowed purpose is to

abolish the House Committee on Un-American

Activities and discredit the FBI. ***

The committee finds that the Emergency-

C1v11 Liberties Committee, established

1n 1951, although representing itself

as a non-Communist group, actually

operates as a front for the Communist

Party. It has repeatedly assisted, by

means of funds and legal aid, Communists

Involved in Smith Act violations and

similar legal proceedings. One of 1ts

chief-activities has been and still 1s

the dissemination of voluminous Communist

propaganda material.'

'FRANK WILKINSON was called as a witness

When he appeared in Atlanta as a represent-

ative of the Emergency C1v1l Liberties

Committee to propagandize against the

Committee on Un-American Activities and

to protest Its hearings. In 1956 WILKINSON

was identified

by a former fBI undercover agent within the

party.

Summoned at that time to answer

the allegation, his reply to all questions

was,

"I am

committee. "answering no questions of this

This also became his stock

reply to questions when he appeared during

the Atlanta hearings. * * * WILKINSON nas

since been convicted

of contempt of Congress

and sentenced to one year in jail.'

DEC 1 1975

APPENDIX

5

DocId: 32201883

Page 7

---

## Page 8

, APPENDIX

EMERGENCY CIVIL LIBERTIES COMMITTEE (CONTID)

'Disputing the non-Communist claim

of the organization, the committee finds

that a number of other individuals

connected with the ECLC also have been

identified under oath as Communists.

**

‹Committee on Un-American Activities,

To defend the cases of Communist Law-

breakers, fronts have been devised

making special appeals in behalf of

civil liberties and reaching out far

beyond the confines of the Communist

Party Itself.

Among these organizations

are the * * * Emergency Civil Liberties

Committee. - When the Communist Party

Itself is under fire these fronts offer

a bulwark of protection. '

(Internal Security Subcommittee of the

Senate Judiciary Cormittee, Handbook for

Americans, S. Doc. 117, April 23, 1950,

p. 91.)"

This document contains neither re-

commendations nor conclusions of

the FOl it is "is property of the FBI

and is laid to your agency; it and

its contenis are not to be distribute

ed outside your agency.

DEC 1.1975

rui

APPENDIX

6*

DocId: 32201883

Page 8

---

## Page 9

FD-323 Rev. 71-29-611

UriTED STATES DEPARTMENT OI JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New Grleans, Louisiana

September

24, 1963

In Reply, Please Rojer 10

File No.

Title

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

...

....

Character INTERNAL SECURITY - R - CUBA

Reference

Letternead memorandum dated

9/24/63 at New Orleans

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities

are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable

Information in the past.

DEC 1 1975

FBI

Thia document contains nelther recommendationa nor conclusiona ol the FBI. Il 18 the properly

of the FBl and l8 loaned lo your aguncy: ll and lis contenta aro not lo ba distributod outside

your agency.

DocId: 32201883

Page 9

---

