JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10198-10281
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2781-688 :
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: _ FBI
FROM: SAC, TP
. TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 02/21/1963
‘PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
LST, ASSOC, ACT
DOCUMENT TYPE: | PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
é CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
~* DATEORLASTREVIEW: 10/14/1998 i
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE c ‘
COMMENTS :

v9.1

‘ DocIa:32288005 Page 1


cy
c.

FD-35 (Rev. 12-19-56)
are

i
{
|
|
|
FBI i
|
Date: .2/21/63
|
Transmit the following in TEXT. |
(Type in plain text or code) i
Via ___ AIRTEL AIR MAIL a
(Priority or Method of Mailing) 1
SE Ee ee a a a a ee i ee ee g ESranyseyeeeysnsreeysen ese sneraey
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)
FROM: SAC, TAMPA (92-1) (P)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka,

AR
(00: Tampa)

pe , WEEKLY SUMMARY

On 2/15/63, Lt.’M. D. HOOPER, Vice and Intekligence
Bureau, St. Petersburg PD, advised attorney C, RAY SMITH,
St. Petersburg, Fla., was known to stay at the Airport Motel
in Miami, Fla., when in that city and the owner-operator of a,
the motel is one MAX FISHER whoi with his brother are part of
the seven stockholders in the motel.

og DOMINICK LA SCALA, PCI (protect), Manager, International
Inn, made available on 2/15/63 a guest book maintained at the ‘~
reception at the marriage of subject's nephew. Same was h
photographed and film has been forwarded to the FBI Laboratory
Photographic Section for development.

On 2/13 and 14/63, TP 97-C advised that subject
las not been reported at the Columbia Restaurant and he has
not been seen in the company of JAMES C, LONGO.

On 2/19/63, SALVATORE JOSEPH LORENZO, aka.,
previously carried as associate of subject's family, was
arrested Vice Squad, Hillsborough County SO in his residence
and was charged with conducting Bolita operation.

@ - Bureau Ry
2 - Miami "9,2. 7¢/ — 683
2 -,Tampa oi . ea Cree ?
SJLice . : gT-115 6 FEB 25 1953
(7) .
aes SssnirPaseos tes etOS ESSE ras
erm a :
| Approved: Sent M Per

Special Agent in Charge

{ Docla: 32288005 Page 2
