JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/10/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10320-10390
RECORD SERIES: HQ ,
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 100-409763-215
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: NY
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 01/30/1968
‘PAGES: 8
SUBJECTS :
MARK LANE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/19/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : INC LHM

{wa
| Docld:32312073 Page 1

71



FORM NO. 10 et
MAY 1962 EDITION ee . a:
‘SGSA Fem (41 CFR) 10r-11.6

UNITED STATES Gos, -3RNMENT

Memorandum |

o\ DIRECTOR, FBI (100-l09763) SECR T pate: JAN 3 0_1968
7
[\sAN8\

“hy SAC, NEW YORK (100-11784) (RUC)

wank@iee, akae,

SUBJECT:
IS - R (JONDIS) CLASSIFIED B
(00:New orleans) DECLASSIFY OJ .
if ReBulet dated 10/10/67 and New york A ee dated

7/26/67, captioned "JONDIS", which set forth information
concerning @ KGB document captioned "List Of American
Sociologists", Reference is further made to the report
of SA BENJAMIN P, MC MANUS, dated 1/9/68, at New York f ‘
’
b

entitled "MARK LANE, SM -c",

Enclosed for the Bureau are six copies of an LHW Ni
dated and captioned as above, setting forth inform tion :
re. subject received from{Ny bel2-shaf Two copies of tans) XG
and one copy each of New York lettef™ to the Bureau date ot
10/3/67 and Bulet to New York dated 10/10/67, are enclosed :
for the New Orleans Division.

=

ae

Sources set forth in LHM are as follows:

S-

First Source:/Ny 5812-; (2
Second Sourcef NY 3868-stPérmer) Now PS MARY ELLEN
DOUGHERTY - Conceal at reauest,.

Enclosed LHM has been classified "TOP SECRET - NO FOREIGN
. ff DISSEMINATION" pursuant to instructions contained in Bulet
dated 10/10/67. :

+

NE

I

ED

ed

It is believed that any interview with subject, with
regard to the information furnished byj/ NY 5812-S#,|would 2S)
gompl ete xy, unproductive. It is noted subject was’ previously
| gpOtontacted by Agents of this Bureau on 4/29/64, at which time
ee Aub ject was not cooperative. He ,@ubsequently gave his

YO \wir24d AAU REC 39
AQ} - Bureau (RM) (Encl. BS hi) 3 ue IS
(1 = 105-169820 gonb74) {BO bfag Yor =
2 @ New Orleans (100-1/689) oe — 7
- New /¥ork (105-897/1 JONDIS) (3),

UNREC*COPY AND COPY OF ENCL FIL

e FEB 2: 1968
wh @ R facTION 7 |
: Fy +A
Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Reguldtly on the Payroll Savings Plan &

| DocIda:32312073 Page 2



\

An ne
yw f
wy, eS

DocId:32312073 Page 3

k

RSH
~- NO FO. GN D EMINATIY E

st
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION | *
New York, New York

In Reply, Please Refer to

PEN Burtie 1006409763 ahead
N¥Pile’ 100011 78hi 4] SECRET
a Ib-
gered BY vot, S|t0P Mark
Ce ASSeY ON 2k Lae zene :

In August, 1967, a confidential source, contact with
whom has not been sufficient to judge reliability, advised
that "Kran" was the KGB code name for Mark Lane, a lawyer ana (S)
the dlthor“of a recént book eritical of the Warren Commission
fAndings on the assasstgation of President Kennedy. This-
source stated that Boris)Qrekbov, a KGB officer assigned to
5st WH) the New York Residency had two meetings with Lane and
g had established a trusted relationship with him. The source
advised that Lane had made a trip to Europe and after his”
retum to the United States was not contacted. The source
stated that the New York Residency of the KGB had established
“conditions of meetings" with Kram. ] (s)

The above source aldo furnished a KGB document
entitled "List of American Seclologists! part of which
pertained to Mark Lane as follows: "Mark Lane © Member of :
New York State Assembly, 10th District of New York; attorney. - |
He is a young man (age 30) and a Jew. He is sharply opposed !
to the policies of Tammany Hall and favors 4 new leadership
for the Democratic Party in New York. He has come out against
racial discrimination (very sharply). He has organized a
group of "freedom riders', wisited the southern states, was
arrestod and sentenced to two months imprisonment. He has been
freed under bail, Ha is an advocate of Ghandi's passive
resistance although he is not inclined to submissiveness". |

fhe "New York World Telegram", a former New York City '
Daily newspaper, issue of May 25, 1962, pagesl2, identified
Merk Lane as a New York State Assemblyman, representing the
10th Assembly District, New York City.

VL The "New York Post", daily newspaper, New York City,
yy isswe of May 25, 1962, page fe reflected that Mark Lane would i
. give up his seat in the New York State Assembly after having
served in bard capacity for fifteen months. He would not
seek a segond term
pir “Gocument contains neither GI Pil .
_ Fecommencations nor conclusions Excluded ‘from automatic
of the FEI. ! tne property downgraging and
of the # aac hele declassification
agency; it and its ts are :

“px ynot to be distributed outside Q es :
CREW Ms
: ENCLOSURYY "ie-vonmrahbissumtueeton™ i?

