25/2014

JFK Full Results

Nationat Archives and Records Administration

al

| Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Brief Results | | Back to Search | | Exit JFK

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES
DOCUMENT TYPE
SUBJECTS

CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :
OPENING CRITERIA :

AGENCY INFORMATION

FBI
124-10049-10003
: HO

1: 44-24016-658

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

FBI
: CLEMENTS, MANNING C.
DIRECTOR, FBI
[No Title] .
: 12/06/1963
1 307
: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
JR, BACKGROUND, INTERVIEWS, ASSOC, RELATIVES
FAMILIARITY
: SECRET
1B; 1c; 4
RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
09/09/1996
INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : REPORT, TABLE OF CONTENTS ON PAGE i, INDEXON PAGES
a-o, INCLUDES ONE ADMIN PAGE.
Audit history for this Record Identification Form
Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results |

Back to Search | | Exit JFK

Do ribawbt Aah Rai -UHSEPI ner! 6508jfisnew.bt


V soem gy ° eo
FEDE, — BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ARPORTING OFFICE.

DALLAS
TITLE OF CASE

‘OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALIAS

DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD.

_12/6/63_|__11/25/63 ~ 18/4/63_
aes t=
id

SA MANNING C, CLEMENTS
CHARACTER OF CASE

“
JACK 1, GORY, Aka.;

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, Aka.,
(DECEASED) . VICTIM Ss

Report of S& MANNING ©, CLEMENTS dated

oD

Chas
Exempt

»- P+ pa
LEADS

All

leads ar

1
of

eing set out by teletype and telephone,
8 report to Chicago, Detroit,

for information in vhew of investiga

ty those offices.

a Copies are
. New Orleans ar
tion being eer

’ : ADMINI SERATIVE
Loe Pieri sk tebe

No dissémination will be made outside the Bureau
except on Bureau instrestions,

= seoloce

N) This report contains no interviews with news mgdia
/ or police representatives who were present at the shooting of
SV OSWALD oy RUBY om 11/24/63, These will be incorporated in a
Mis subsequent report.
NII >
Us arenoveo PARA aN wo NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW
6 Dame Ee
F026 (5) - Berean (4424026)
SES “{T . Chicago omet inf
AOS. 1 = Detroit balsas (info
W235 1 = New Orleans (44-2064 )(into)“ikc “45 nto 11 1969
838 1 = Taare), Fees see . a"
7 8 - 23} ; oe — We
: 1 on 04 He
wie” HOPIES DisTROYED —— st Ne
: ‘ My
Bape gee rw ve
oo Ya
/ ta
a
&
—e

it)

Docld: 32134792 Page 2

> “aj


oe 6

SECRET
LA 44-895 wae

EJK mjg
2

RONNIE SCALIAR, TIMMY WELCH and NANCY SINATRA, daughter of
FRANK SINATRA,

On 9/19/63, LA 4429-¢c in discussing MAX WEINBERG,
designated as Top Jewel Theft subject, advised SAs DONALD
A. SCHLAEFER, and WILLIE R, WHITE and Supervisor CHESTER
E, ST. VINCENT, that WEINGERG's daughter is presently employed
as a secretary for Reprise Records owned by FRANK SINATRA,
She received this job through a distributor, MEL (LNU). Se

LA 44e9-c further advised that he had heard that
people in the Reprise office were calling all over the
country and placing large bets. No details or names
velative to this type of activity weré available to LA wea-0.

On 6/28/63, MICHAEL SHORE of Reprise Records,
1347 Cahuenga, Los Angeles, California, Telephone No.
HO 6-8211, advised SAA CHARLES E, STINE that he had seen
publicity in the Los Angeles papers concerning the conviction
of MARVIN R. COLE on Obstruction of Justice charges. He
commented that he had known COLE for a long time and that
"MARVIN COLE is DOC STACHER's boy". SHORE stated that he
had been, in some measure, responsible for starting COLE
out in business in New Yoric City a number of years ago,
He indicated that.on one occasion he had loaned money to
COLE in order that COLE might buy points in the Fremont
Hotel and Gambling Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada. .

On 10/18/63 MARVIN R, COLE was indicted by the
Federal Grand Jury at Los Angeles, charging him with two
counts of violation of Obstruction of Justice, Trial i
commenced in U. S, District Court, Los Angeles 5/14/63.
On 5/23/63 the jury returned a verdict of guilty on both
counts. On 6/12/63, a fine of $1,000 on each of the two
counts was imposed by the court. Notice of Appeal was
filed by COLE's attorneys on 6/13/63.

The January, 1961 Agency List of the Standard

/ —_
Cover fas = SECRET

Docld: 32134792 Page 3


‘

ry e

a

—_ : ‘SECRET

DL 44-1639 ype eee ee
. @® _ (u)
fnew York [538}-S¥advised thar€at 12:15 p.m&X ‘November, 13,

1963 XWIESEAW GORNICKI, Polish correspondent of th€ Polish wn)
Press Agency, in a conversation with BOHDAN LEWANOWSKI, Polish
Ambassador to the United States¥stated that he had information
indicating that the correspondént (name not given), of the Indian“
Publication "Blitz" was in Dallas the day of the attack, ( assassi-
nation) and apparently obtained documents stating that police
Sheriff CURRY and RUBY were members of the "MB KESIDE” or

"MB SESILE" (phonetic) ¥GORNICKIPwas to verify this information Je
December 2, 1963, an@€GORNICKI¥also indicated this information Ox.
would be published in the ned¥ future by "BLITZ", which he
described as an Anti-American publication. The list of non United
States National Accredited. as. correspondents ..and. representatives of
information media by the United Nations'as of October 31, 1963,
lists SH SANGHVI of Indian nationality :as associated with
"BLITZ" ..YWIESLAW GORNICKI of Polish nationality was listed as
associated with the Polish Press Agenc

“BE

SEGRET

DocId: 32134792 Page 4


~ SECRET

Sources at San Antonio, Austin, Waco, Temple and
Pharr, Texas, had no pertinent informations Vv

The following sources were contacted negatively on vy)
11/25/63 by the indicated Agents: au

AT SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS:

DL 44-1639/BL

SOURCE CONTACTING: AGENT
CI J. C. STEPHENSON, Proprietor, ws ; SA BRUNO F, DREYER

Drug Store and News Stand

SA 665=C ; ; . SA DREYER

[FCI VANCE F. BORDELON, gambler) @ SA DREYER

fer banter age FERRIS, cafe owner and l@ SA DREYER

Former SA 560-C $A DREYER

eer PHILLIP BORDONARO, Tavern keeper |@ SA JOHN RUSSELL GRAHAM

rex JACK. PATRICK HANRATIY, ganbier] a

Fer ROBERT S. YARRINGTON, retired gambled SA GRAHAM

Capt. ROBERT ALLEN, Vice Squad, SA PD SA MORTON P. CHILES, JR.
(including check of vice squad records )

Ber vINcENT. L, LOCICERO | @ SA CHILES

Pez WADE HANSEN] SA CHILES

Per HenaY carTER] a SA CHILES

SA 660-C . SA CHILES

& , AT AUSTIN, TEXAS: | _

[Por mary HaLpouTY, Manicurist | MO SAH, , BURK

[Former PCI MARION C. "SONNY" PEARSON) my
gambler : SA BURK

COVER _ -
@ ~ SECRET

DocId:32134792 Page 5


. . @ 6

SL 44-496 - SECRET
AT ST, LOUIS, MISSOURT que

SL 1285-C-TE advised SA CLARK S, SMITH on-

November 27, 1963 that AL CHARLES, Proprietor
of the Stardust Club at St. Louis, Missouri, advised
him that he:has known JACK RUBY for 15 years.

” Informant stated that RUBY, according to GHARLES has
@ business partner, name unknown, who is 7O years of
age and who formerly was in sSiness in Dallas, Texas,
with an individual named Soyfsow Informant stated
that CHARLES advised that ID and RUBY's present
partner operated a bar and burlesque house in Dallas,
Texas, which was in competition with a similar
establishment operated by an unnamed individual who
had an "in" with the Police Department. Informant
advised that CHARLES related that subsequently a
rape charge was filed against BOND who then fled from
Dallas, Texas, to Washington, D..G,, where he opened
a similar business. BOND according to’ CHARLES was
later "fingered" and arrested at Washington, D. C.
However, no dates of occurrance were given in relating
this story. Informant advised that CHARLES stated RUBY
then went into business in Dallas with JOE BOND's, former
partner, name unknown. .

4 The indiciés of the St. Louis Office failed to
reflect any derogatory information on AL CHARLES,

a

AA

(coven PAGE) § EC R ET

DocId: 32134792 Page 6


. Py *

DL 44-1639 ; S EC R ET

On November 27, 1963, the St. Louis Office advised that
SL 1285-C-TE advised SA CLARK S. SMITH on November 27, 1963, that
AL CHARLES, Proprietor of Stardust Clu, St. Lous , Missouri, ~
has known JACK RUBY for fifteen years. According to informant,
CHARLES stated RUBY has a business partner, name not mentioned,
70 years old, who merly was in business in Dallas with an indi-
vidual named JO! Informant advised tliat BONDS and RUBY's
present partner operated a bar and burlesque house which was in
competition with a similar establishment operated by an unnamed
individual who was friendly with the police department. As a re-
sult a rape charge was filed against BONDS, who then fled from
Dallas to Washington, whee he opened a similar business.
BONDS, according to CHARLES,| was later arrested at Washington,
dD. c.; and no dates given. {Informant stated according to CHARLES,
RUBY then went in business ith BONDS' former partner.
AS.
: AL CHARLES, Proprietor 6. ‘tardust Club, St. Us ,
Missouri, featuring EVELYN WEST and other burlesque acts, was
personally contacted by SA CLARK S. SMITH on November 27, 1963.
CHARLES stated he is not personally acquainted with JACK RUBY,
did not know he originally came frop Chicago, or that his name
was RUBENSTEIN.’ However, CHARLES advised he has known of JACK RUBY
.a8 being in a similar business endeavor as his in Dallas for the .
past 15 years.

CHARLES stated he received a telephone call from RUBY
approximately two years ago on occasion RUBY made. an inquiry re-
garding night club acts. CHARLES further advised in April of
this year he paid a visit to Dallas and patronized the three
burlesque houses in Dallas, including that of JACK RUBY. CHARLES
maintained he hasm other knowledge of RUBY or his associates.

—_

COVER PAGE S EC R ET ,

DocId: 32134792 Page 7
