# docid-32294508

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10213-10284

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-81285-107

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

RONKSLEY, ROBERT I.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 10/22/1964

PAGES:

32

SUBJECTS :

REW, BKG, DEFECTION TO SOVIET UNION, CONNECTION

WITH CP, PHYSICAL DESCR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE iii

v9.1

DocId: 32294508

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

PG 105-2553

PITTSBURGH

At Pittsburgh, Pa., (Allegheny County)

1.

Will await Bureau decision regarding placing

of subject's

name on the Security Index.

2.

Will, if subjet's name is placed on the Security

Index, appropriately disseminate to Secret Service.

3.

Will, if subject's name is placed on the Security

Index, verify subject's residence and employment every 30

days and develop sources in a position to furnish information

indicating subject is exhibiting violent tendencies or

planning to change his residence or employment, in accordance

with instructions set forth in Bureau letter to Albany,

dated 9/17/64, captioned, "DISAFFECTION OF UNITED STATES

CITIZENS ABROAD."

ADMINISTRATIVE

This report is classified "Confidential" because

data reported Irom PG I-4, if disclosed, could result in

identification oi a contidential investigative technique.

A suitable photograph of subject is available.

INFORMANTS

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

PG I-1 Lis Doctor JAMES H.

RAND, President, Rand

cleveland, ohio, (Request) JA

Development Corporation,

PG T-2 is Mrs. LUCILLE

HENERY, Registrar, Geneva

College, Beaver Falls, Pa.,

(Established

source - request).

LOCATION

PG 105-2553-6, 16, 59.

PG 105-2553-53, page 2.

- B -

SECREM COVER PAS

..=

DocId: 32294508

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECREM

PG 105-2553

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

LOCATION

PG 105-2553-61

PG T-3 is NICHOLAS GRAZIANO,

Treasurer, Rand Development

Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio,

(Request).

PG T-4 iS NX-1519-5*. (5)

Sources familiar with Communist Party and

related matters in Pittsburgh and surrounding areas, who

were contacted during 9/64, are identified as follows:

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

LOCATION

PG-156-S

PG 105-2553-79

PG-168-S

PG-153-S

PG-174-S

PG-108-S

"

PG-109-S

PG-139-S

PG-140-S

- C* -

COVER PAGE

SECRET

S1S19524

DocId: 32294508

Page

---

