# docid-32323806

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/31/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90021-10004

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-5704-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/27/1965

12

JOE CAMPISI

JOSEPH CAMPISI

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

4

Redact

11/17/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

DờcId: 32323806

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

copies made

52078 04819

sor revter at FBIHQ by

HSCAre: 2026 request.

(See But 1le #62-117290)

DogId: 32323806

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL: 92-339

be complete. It is noted that no copy of referenced report

was furnished the U.S. Attorney as it was submitted prior

to receipt of Bureau instructions to submit copies of reports

in this category to the U..S. Attorney.

In view of the fact that no information has been

developed through contacts with reliable law enforcement

agencies and with informants who are in a position to have

such information, that the subject is involved at the present

that in sub act a

time in any illegal activity, UACB, no further investigation

is being conducted in this matter.

Should information be

received from any source whatsoever that CAMPISI is involved

in any illegal activity,

this case will be immediately reopened

for investigation and the Bureau kept advised of pertinent

developments.

Mrs. B. M. SETTLE, Secretary, Area Supervisor,

Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, Dallas, Texas, was

contacted on 2/2/65, by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

Information obtained concerning CAMPISI since

the submission of referenced Dallas report has been summarized

and is set out in this report.

The period date of this report

does not reflect the dates this information was received.'

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

DL T-I is DL-105-C, contacted by SA MILTON L, NEWSOM.

D T-2 1S PCI ELMER WATSON, contacted by SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING.

DL T-3 1s DL-144-C*.

DL T-4 is DL-99-C, contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

DL T-5 1s DL-185-C-TE, contacted by SA ROBERT M, BARRETT.

DL T-6 is PCI SAL DALY, contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

• T-7 is DL-170-C, contacted by SA ROBERT M BARRETT.

DL T-8 is DL-247-C, contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRENT•

DL T-9 1s DL-141-C, contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

DL T-10 is DL-181-C, contacted by SA IVAN D. LEE.

B*

Cover Page

DocId: 32323806

Page

3

---

