# docid-32629755

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10033

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : USAF

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Staff Message Branch Incoming Message

DATE : 3/6/1963

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 43: Cuba Cables, 1/1/63-3/14/63, folder 3

of 4. Box 1

49061

DocId: 32629755

Page 1

---

## Page 2

saninzed

Cabr

(3)

42

DIS

SECRET

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

STAFF MESSAGE BRANCH

INCOMING MESSAGE

AF IN : 37137 (6 MAR 63) F/chs

1. of 3

ACTION: JCS(DIA-CIIC) -10, DIA-25, NIN-9

INFO

:XOP--2, x0S=41, 08R-22

ACIC-3, J-2-1, :J-3=5,. J-5-1; SACSA-1,

SEC DEF-8, WHITE HOUSE-3, RRA-1, JRG-2,

JCS FILE-1,

(81)

SMB D 248 S

WZVHQB897ZCUJC380

PP.: RUEAHQ

DE RUEPIA 60A

RUWSCR-T COMPHIBGRU THREE

0 061808Z

FM CIA WASHDC

FILE

TO RUCBCR/CG EIGHTEENTH AIRBORNE

RUCBCR/CG USA SPWARCEN FI BRAGG

NC"

RUCBCR/ STRAC FT BRAGG

RUCDBG/ACIC ST LOUIS MO

RUCDAL B/ CINCONAD ENT AFB COLO

RUCDSQ/FID WPAFB DAYTON OHIO

RUCKCF/ COMPHIBGRU FOUR

RUCKCF/.COM PHIBGRU, TWO

RUCKHC/CINCLANT

RUCKHC/C INCL ANTFLT:

RUCKHC/LANTINT CEN

RUCKHD/ CG. FMFLANT!

RUCKHF / COM PHICMZNT

RUCKUD/COMDR KEY, WEST FORCES

RUCRC/ ARLANT. FT. MONROE VA

RÜC SBR/ SAC OFFUTT AFB OMAHA NEB

RUCSBR/544TH AEROSPACE RTECHWG OFFUTT AFB OMAHA NEB

RUCV SM/ 4080TH SRW, L'AUGHL IN. AFB, TEXAS

RUE ADX/COMDR TAC L'AFBVA!

RUEAHQ/HQS USAF WASHDC

RUEAHO/DIA WASHDC/ CIIC-3-А-2

RUDAHQ/DIA PROD CTR

RUEAHQ/UCS/J-2 WASHDC

RUEAJK/COM NINETEENTH, AIR FORCE

RUEAJK/ 4444TH RTS SHAW ARB SO

RUECEM/CMC < CODE A0-2C)

RUECW/DNI WASHDC

RUEKC/JACE AJCC FT RITCHIE MD

RUEKC/ HOS USAF CADV) AUCC FT RITCHIE MD

TUE

Kuraduction of this message in

whole or in part is prohibited

without approval of THE ORNICE OF PRIMARY INTEREST)

COPY. NO.

"FORM

AFHQ JAN 62 0:309b

PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF.

THIS FORM MAY BE USED.

SECRET

NH 49061 DocId:32629755 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

STAFF MESSAGE BRANCH

AF IN : 37137 (5 MAR 63)

INCOMING MESSAGE

RUE KDL/ CINCSTRIKE MCDILL AFB

FLA

RUEKM J/ JACE AIRBORNE ANDREWS AFB MD

RUEKVDA/ JACE AFLOAT NORFOLK VA

RUEPCR/D IRNSA

RUE PDA/ ACSI- IW DA WASHDC

RUEPDA/ AMS SAAIA)

RUHAFS/ CINCUSARPAC FORT SHAFTER HAWAII

RUHL'KM/HQ PAÇAF HICKAM AFB HAWAII

RUKPA/ CINCPAC

RUHPB/ CINCPACFLT PEARL HARBOR HAWAII

RULBCR/DIO 15 ND

RUL GGCR/ COMN AVBASE GTMO

RUL GN / COM CARIBSEAFRON

RUL GN/ DIO 10 ND

RUWDG/COMPHIBPAC

RUW SCR/ COM PHIBGRU THREE

DA GRNC. T

WBIT

SECRET

CITE CIA-Z-368

2 0f 3

THE FOLLOWING IS FROM THE NATIONAV: PHOTOGRAPHIC INTERPRETATION CENTER.

PRELIMINARY SCAN OF BRASS KNOB MISSION 3468, DATED 5 MARCH

1963,

REVEAL'S

POLLOWING INFORMATION ON THE MILITARY CAMPS

LISTED BELOW:

I0 ARTEMISA, MILITARY CAMP -- POOR IMAGE QUALITY AND FOLIAGE

PRECLUDES DETATLED INTERPRETATION.

NO APPARENT CHANGE IN COUNT AND

DEPLOYMENT OF TENTS, VEHICLES, AND EQUIPMENT. THE 6-GUN AND 9-GUN

AAA REMAIN OCCUPIED®

THE UNIDENTIFIED MATERIAL PREVIOUSLY REPORTED

ALONGSIDE BARRACKS ON MISSION 3465, 4 MAR 63 IS NO LONGER PRESENT

FRAMES L/51, 56 POOR IMAGE: QUALITY

20 HOLGUIN AREA, MILITARY CAMP - POOR IMAGE QUALITY PRECLUDES

DETAILED INTERPRETATION®

NO APPARENT CHANGE IN COUNT OR DEPLOYENT

(Reproducti

sage in"

whole or in part is prohibited without approval of THE OFFICE OF PRIMARY INTEREST

47 COPY, NO

FORM

A FHO JAN 62: 0-309b

PREVIOUS 'EDITIONS' OF.

THIS FORM MAY BE USED.

SECRET

HH 49061

DocId:32629755 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

STAFF MESSAGE BRANCH

INCOMING MESSAGE

AF. IN : 37137 (6 MAR 63)

3 0f 3

OF TENTS, VEHICLES/ PIECES OF EQUIPMENT.

THE 6- GUN. AND 9-GUN AAA

SITES REMAIN OCCUPIED.

FRAMES L/ 266, 271, 276 POOR IMAGE QUALITY

3o REMEDIOS AREAS MILITARY CAMP-- POOR IMAGE QUALITY PRECLUDES

DETAILED INTERPRETATION. NO APPARENT CHANGE IN COUNT AND DEPLOYMENT

OF TENTS, VEHICLES/ PIECES OF EQUIPMENT. THE 6-GUN AAA SITE REMAINS

OCCUPIED®

FRAMES R/186, 191 - L/182, 187, 192 SCATTERED CLOUDS, CLOUD

SHADOW,

POOR IMAGE QUALITY:

4• SANTIAGO DE LAS VEGAS AREA, MILITARY CAMP -- POOR IMAGE

QUALITY AND FOLIAGE PRECLUDES DETAILED INTERPRETATION. NO APPARENT

CHANGE IN COUNT AND DEPLOYMENT OF TENTS, VEHICLES, AND EQUIPMENT®

THE 6-GUN AND 9-GUN. AAA SITES REMAIN OCCUPIED.

FRAMES B/111, 116, 121

= L/ 117 POOR IMAGE QUALITY

5. TORRENS, MILITARY COMPLEX POOR IMAGE QUALITY PRECLUDES

DETAILED INTERPRETATION. NO APPARENT CHANGE IN COUNT AND DEPLOMENT

OF "TENTS, VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.

THE 6-GUN AAA SITE REMAINS

UNOCCUPIED, BUT 6 AAA GUNS REMAIN PARKED IN AREA.

•FRAMES R/105

L/ 96,

101,

1106

POOR IMAGE QUALITY

SCP- 1

HH 49061

NOTE:

EXCLUDED PRON AUTONATIC REGRADING:

DOD DIR. 6200. 10 DOES NOT APPLY

ADV CY TO JOSS DIA, NIN

duction of the message in whole on in bart is prohibited without approval of Tile OFfice Of PRIMARY INTEREST)

COPY NO

FORM

A FHO JAN 62 0 - 309b

PREVIOUS _EDITIONS.OF

THIS FORM MAY BE USED.

SECRET

DocId: 32629755 Page 4

---

