# docid-32297465

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10219-10241

HQ

92-2914-301, 302, 303

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO :

SAC, PG

TITLE :

DATE: 11/20/1963

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

GM, SMO, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, TAX FRAUD, EVASION,

TRIAL, ATTEMPTS, JUROR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC A/T, RGM, NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32297465

13

Page 1

---

## Page 2

- (Rew 1517-63)

_ AIRGRAM

DECODED COPY

E CABLEGRAM

XXXRADIO

TELETYPE

Tolson

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

nrad

eLoachi

vans

Gale

Rosent

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes !

Gandy -

it pitie

URGENT

11-19-63

TO. DIRECTOR.

FROM SAC PITTSBURGH

191745

ANTIRACKETEBRING

GABRIEL MANNARINO, AKA, AR. SAMUEL MANNARINO,: AKA, APo

ON NOVEMBER 1S LAST, SELECTION OF A JURY, WAS MADE AT

COMMENCEVENT OF TRIAL OF MANNARING BROTHERS AND THEIR ASSOCIATESY.

ON CHARGES OF INCOME TAX FRAUD AND EVASION. .

CON NOVEMBER 18 LAST, POI ANTHONY JOHN WISE, JR., ADVISED

SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, 111, AS FOLLOWS:

ON THAT DATE AT ABOUT 4:30 PM, SAM MANNARINO STATED THEY

INTENDED TO TRY TO GET TO MRS BROWN, WIFE OF ALLEGHENY COUNTY

JUDGE HOMER S. BROWN, WHO HAD BEEN SELECTED TO THE JURY

USDO, PITTSBURGH, THAT DAY.

MANNARINO SAID THE BROWNS HAD A

DAUGHTER WHO IS GOING WITH THE SON OF PAUL LONG, PITTSBURGHS

RADIO AND TELEVISION NEWS COMMENTATOR, AND THE APPROACH: WOULD

BE MADE THROUGH PAUL LONG.

WHEN ASKED HOW HE KNEW LONG WOULD

,GO

PFOR THE DEAL, MANNARING LAUGHINGLY SAID HE WAS POSITIVE LONG:

WOULD GO FOR IT. IT IS NOTED THAT JUDGE BROWN AND HIS WIFE;!

MRS. WILLHELMINA B. BROWN, ARE OF THE NEGRO RACE AND THE PAUL

LONG FAMILY IS CAUCASIAN. .

THE ABOVE INFORMATION HAS BEENN

FURNISHED TO USA: GUSTAVE DIAMOND, PITTSBURGH, WHO WILL COMMENCE

PRESENTATION OF THE GOVERNMENT CASE AGAINST SUQJECT ON NOVEMBER

INSTANT, ON CHARGES OF INCOME TAX EVASION. USE DIAMOND REQUESTED

THAT NO ACTIVE INVESTIGATION BE MADE TO PROVE OR DISPROVE THE.

ABOVE ALLEGATION, AT IHIS TIME FOR FEAR OF JEOPARDIZING- THE CASE

92-2914-30€

aintelsent to

241

..1/19/63

20 NUV 22 1963

XEROX

NOV 26 1963

==*

I the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

UNRECORDED SOP

DocId: 32297465

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

11/22/63

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

To :

Director, FBI (92-2914) (92-2918)

From: SAC, Pittsburgh (92-236) (92-228) (p)

SubJect: GABRIEL MANNARINO, aka

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka

00 - Pittsburgh

Remyrad 11/19/63 and Buairtel 11/20/63.

On 11/21/63, PCI ANTHONY JOHN WISE, Jr. advised

SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III as follows:

On 11/20/63, SAM MANNARINO stated that the "contact"

has been made with "Judge Brown's wife."

MANNARINO did

not indicate that the results of the contact had been

successful from his point of view and, in fact, appears to

be deeply worried about the outcome of the trial.

MANNARINO

changed one part of his story in that he now referred to

Judge BROWN's son going with the daughter of PAUL LONG,

rather than BROWN's daughter going with LONG's son, as had

been previously stated.

The above information was furnished to USA GUSTAVE

DIAMOND, Pittsburgh, Pa., on 11/21/63.

The trial of the MANNARINOS in USDC, Pittsburgh,

on income tax fraud and evasion charges, is estimated by

USA DIAMOND to be about half over and may be concluded by

11/29/63.

of

Although a report is slightly past due in each

the MANNARINO cases, Pittsburgh will, in the interest

of continuity, delay the reports until the conclusion of

trial VACB.

REC- 56

€ C- Wick,

SUBJECT'S

6*08003

99: 2914

302

SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

Bureau

Pittsburgh

TGF : mzw

(6)

1.

EX. = II7

20

NOV 25 1963

?.u.

NOV 27 1963

6

laporoved

241

Sent

_ M

Per

SPecial Agely

in Charge

DocId: 32297465 Page 3

---

