# docid-32292889-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10210-10165

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-336X

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: • SAC, TP

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 09/27/1961

"PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LST, ASSOC, WHEREABOUTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

30

---

## Page 2

+4-41 17ENS-6-2-61)

DECODED

OPY

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad -

DeLoach

Evans -

Malone _

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy -

NOV 24196

Radio

• Teletype

DEFERRED

9-27-61

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC, MIAMI

FROM SAC, TAMPA

271725

Im/0

SANTO

PRAFF I CANTE,

TRAFFICANTE, UR., AKAO, AR, DAILY TELETYPE. HERBERT

GOLDBURG, ASSISTANT STATE ATTORNEY, TAMPA, WHO MOVED INTO

NEW RESIDENCE ADJACENT TO SUBJECTS RESIDENCE SEPTEMBER 20

ADVISED SEPTEMBER 25 LAST THAT NEITHER HE NOR HIS WIFE HAVE

SEEN SUBJECT WHO IS WELL KNOWN TO HIM. STATED BOTH WERE

ABOUT THEIR NEW RESIDENCE DAILY CONCERNING PLANS, BUILDING,

AND FURNISHINGS FOR MONTHS PRIOR TO MOVING IN AND HAD NOT

SEEN SUBJECT. STATED HE HAS HANDLED ALL BOLITA CASES IN

TAMPA CRIMINAL COURT AND HIS SOURCES ADVISE SUBJECT NOT

ENGAGED IN ANY BOLITA IN HILLSBOROUGH COUNTY WHATSOEVER.

STATED HIS SOURCES REPORTED SUBJECT LOST OUT EVERYTHING IN

CUBA AND WAS LAST REPORTED TO HAVE HAD AN APARTMENT IN

MIAMI BEACH LOCATION UNKNOWN. CHARLES C. CORCES, ATTORNEY,

PCI (PROTECT), ADVISED SEPTEMBER 25 THAT HIS SOURCES

INDICATED SUBJECT WAS IN MIAMI, ADDRESS UNKNOWN. ROLAND

MANTEIGA, BUSINESS MANAGER, LA GACETA, SPANISH WEEKLY TAMPA

PAPER, ADVISED SEPTEMBER 26 HE HAD PERSONALLY SEEN SUBJECT

AT DEAUVILLE HOTEL, ALONG WITH MARTIN FOX OF TROPICANA, AND

DINO CELLINI, FORMER MANAGER OF HAVANA RIVIERA, AND SO

REPORTED IN LA GACETA UNDER DATE OF SEPTEMBER 22 LAST.

MANTEIGA, WHO DESIRES IDENTITY BE PROTECTED, ADVISED SUBUECT,

FOX AND CELLINI WERE SUPPOSEDLY ACCOMPANIED BY THEIR WIVES,

THAT HE DID NOT SPEAK WITH THEM, AND WHEN HE MADE INQUIRY

CONCERNING SUBUECTSADDRESS ON MIAM! BEACH, HE WAS TOLD

"HE HAS NO ADDRESS"

WHICH MEANT TO HIM THAT HIS SOURCE WOULD

-5519

PEG

• SEP 2& 1968

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

---

