AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10353-10200
RECORD SERIES: LA
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ELSUR 92-113C-237
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LA
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 04/19/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
JOHN ROSELLI (ELSUR)
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 11/17/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: = INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/3/2015

Agency Information

v9.1

DocId:32317463 Page 1



Ss eo

4/19/63

AIR MAIL - REGISTERED

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

rT .
FROM: sac, LOS aNORIgS (92«Ti3c) (Py S<
RE: JOHN ROSELLI, aka 7.
AR

LA 4396-C# advised ROSSELLI has not been at his
Los Angeles apartment on 4/17, 18 or 19/63. FPisur has dis-
closed that his car has been parked in the garage at his
apartment during the past three days, The Las Vegas Office
has been requested to ascertain if he is in that city.

LA 4268-¢ advised that ROSSELLI was not at the
Friar's Club in Beverly Hills on 4/17/63. on 4/17/63 this
gource engaged in conversation with MORRIE SUESS (phonetic)
and MATTIE GORDANO (phonetic) who source knew as the former
maitre de at La Scala Restaurant in Beverly Hills. SUESS
related that he had a movie script which concerned the story
of a priest in Italy. He said he had discussed this script :
with ROSSELLI and ROSSELLI told SUESS to bring the script ant
to him when he had it in final form and he would look it
Over.

GORDANO (phonetic) then remarked that ROSSELLI
“comes from the same town my parents come from -~ a small
town outside of Naples called Avellino." SUESS and LA 4268-C
then remarked that they thought ROSSELLI was born in Chicago.
{There upon GORDANO said nothing more concerning this matter.

On 4/19/63 GEAN LEON, owner of La Scala Raéstaurant,
and a former top echelon informant (of the Los Angeles Office)
advised that MATTY GIORDANO, aka Mathew Michael Jordan,
Matty Action, was formerly employed by him, LEON, as a waiter:

[ cf - Bureau 1 8
Los Angeles EXED
HED :B, ALIZED dae
(4) : : i
7s ey yGRg tees OB
: RYE!
FBI Ua fs 4 A NAL) Ba ite
# OF XEROX CoPrES oe 7

DATE2/)7 _TNTPIALS _

Pr-Y C - 237 |

Docld:32317463 Page 2


O

LA 92-1130

He advised that MATTY GIORDANO, on an occasion within the
past couple of years when ROSSELLI was at La Scala Restaurant
stated that ROSSELLI was born in the same town, Avellino, as
were his, GIORDANO's parents and that ROSSELLI is not his
true name. GIORDANO mentioned ROSSELLI's true name to LEON
but LEON does not remember it. He recalla that it was an
Italian name that had "rhythm." :

Newark has been requested to conduct investigation
concerning GIORDANO and his family in Hoboken, New Jersey,
prior to contemplated interview of GIORDANO's father, if
alive, and of MATTY GIORDANO.

DocId:32317463 Page 3

