# docid-32576612

## Page 1

SAC, Philadelphia

REC-21

Director, FBI (92-6054)

282-8050) - 984

LA COSA NOSTRA CE XA

3/2/65.

JUNE

1 - J. D. Donohue

1

- Mr. Flynn

1

- Mr. Kelly

Beurlet 2/24/65.

Authority granted to continue pa 705-c° for an

additional

60-day period.

In the event this source does not

produce sufficient information to completely justify

• its

continuance during this period, you should recommend that it

bts discontinued.

Submit your recommendations regarding

continuance to reach the Bureau one

week prior to the

expiration of this authority.

MAILED 25.

MARIS IN 196

Tolson

Belmont. -

Mohr

DeLoach

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad L.

Felt -

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel t'l

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

" NOTE!T.

This misur is located in the residence of a Philadelphia

top echelon informant who is an admitted member of La Cosa Nostra.

The informant has no knowledge of this installation. It was

installed with the view of covering meetings which might

take

place at this loeation

when the

informant was not there.

Philadelphia

Office

submitted an FD-143 dated

2/10/65 which

recommended con-

tinuance of source for 60 days.

This form did not list any

specific examples of information furnished by the source.

Bulet

2/17/65 instructed the Philadelphia Office to fürnish Bureau

specific examples of info furnished by this source.

Philadelphia

Office reports

that this source has not furnished any specific

information of value during the previous authorized period.

•Source did reveal a conversation between the informant and Frank

Monte, a known member of La Cosa Nostra at which time Monte

requested intormatt to accompany him on a holdup.

Philadelphia

Office reports the informant in this matter has improved his

financial status and it is felt there will be more social visits

to his residence by La Cosa Nostra members. It is recommended

that Philadelphia be authorized to continue source for an

additional 60-day period.

If it does not produce worthwhile

information during this time, the Philadelphia Office will be

instructed

to discontinue source.

JEK: caest

(6)

AT CITRO

MARIAL HOM VE

TELETYPE UNIT

i BOUTE IN PNVELOPE,

DocId: 32576612

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL. FORM NO. 10

MAY fd2 EDITION

5010-108

GSA GEN.. REGI NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Director, FBI (92-6054)

DATE:

SAC, Philadelphia

(92-1027 Sub D)

LA COSA NOSTRA;

2/24/65

JUNE

L..

- Cha.

Re Bureau letter dated 2/17/65, requesting

Philadelphia to forward specific examples

of information furnished by PH 705-C* to

provide basis for justification of con-

tinuance of this source for

a 60 day period.

It should be noted that PH 705-C* furnishes

information in regard to PH 672-C-TE, a known member of - di

La Cosa Nostra.

PH 705-C* during the pertinent period

has failed to furnish any specific information of value.

It is not felt, however, that this source should be

aiscontinued.,

The source during the pertinent period was

visited by La Cosa Nostra member FRANK MONTE on two .

occasions.

MONTE was out of range of PH 705-0* when

versing with the occupant of this location; however, the

source served as a means to verify that pH 672-C-TE did not

shield the fact that MONTE visited him and propositioned

source to accompany him ón a proposed holdup.

This holdup

was not undertaken. The proposition was made by Monte.

PH 672-C-TE improves his financial status

monthly, and it is felt that he will, therefore, be con-

tacted socially more frequently, and since he is a member

of La Cosa Nostra and has potential to furnish valuable

information, Philadelphia will continue PH 705-0*, UACB,

for an additional 60 days.

REC-21

- Bureau (92-6054)

(RM)

1 - Philadelphia

: 5192-1027 Sub

92-6054984

JRP/1ad

(3)

3//4S:

• 22 2 1965

pos

DocId: 32576612 Page 2

---

