# docid-32312803

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10325-10052

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-99938-17, 18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

NY

HQ

DATE: 03/09/1966

'PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

CUBAN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 3 MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32312803

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL, FORM NO. 10

5010-107-5

MAY 1962 EDITION

# GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNTED "STATES GOYERNMENT

* Memoran.'um

SECRE G

CF

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

6-19-98

CIA HAS NO OSJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE 0F CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. K

Z-NY

4114966

Director, FBI (105-99938)

SAC, Miami (105-11096) (RUC)

DATE: 5/23/66

ADE INNOVATTOU CONCATATO "

FIREEN IS INCLASSLE: GO SACERT

MILDRE GROWN ORGARVISA

CUBAN MATTERS - COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRANG S

IS - CUBA

CLASSIPED BY 5068-31D/md

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

Reférence Bureau Letter to lilami 3/23/65l

Sources checked in Miami failed to reflect

that any government agencies or Cuban Refugee organi-

zations keep any record of specific data concerning

refugees in the United States who have immediate

relatives incarcerated in Cuba.

AUSTIN HORN, CIA, Covert; Miami, who main-LAU

tains the principal liaison with Special Agent JAMES

D. HAYES, advised on April 20, 1966, that they do not

have any record of any such data.

On April 28, 1966, Colonel SAM KAIL, in Charge of

the Processing Teams at Opa

Locka,

advised they do not

soliclt any such specific data, and, of course, only a

very small percentage of Cuban

refugees entering the

United States are interviewed. Unless specific de-

rogatory information exists beforehand, persons under

18 and over 50, are rarely interviewed at all.

GLENN ADAMS,

Supervisory Investigatory, INS,

aavised on May 5, 1966 that that service has no

specific records regarding refugees in the United State

with incarcerated relatives in Cuba.

The U.S. State Department representative,

Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, advised that agency has

no such records. (5]

MM (815JS and MM 492-S, who are very knowleage-

able of all Cuban refugee organizations in the Miami area,

REC- 28

Bureau (RM)

]

New York (105-48580) (RM)

105-99238-11

- Miami

ELS: JMS

a Ta KiNsER 5 1966

(5)

MEIT DIA

SPOO

DocId: 32312803

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

STITRO E2003

AL" LATO

paradi

2/11

148

CLASSIFIED BY

5068.

DECLASOIFY Oi

25

S010-l01

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.8

_ENITED STATES ERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

K.M

SAC, L NEW YORK

CUBAN COUNTER INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

IS - CUBA

Cuban Matters-Counter

intelligence

Re MM teletype captioned, [LINO PRREZ GOMEZ; (5)

PSI-CUBA" dated 12/8/65.

detains of which were set out in the referenced teletype,

suggests the possibility that some measures might be initiated

to uncover other persons utilized by the CIS, not known to the

FBI.

PEREZ is

a professional man, an exile in the dos. (S

from Cuba where a

sentence hangs over his head because of

involvement in anti-CASTRO activities inside Cuba.

Importantly, his wife is still in Cuba in jail, offering

an

excellent hostage situation for exploitation by the cIs.

Perhaps though, the hostage situation could be the

avenue which the fBI coula utilize in an effort to identify

persons being utilized by CIS, such as (PEREZ. Presently known (S

anti-CASTRO groups with their

somewhat diminished membership

could be scrutinized in an effort to identify persons in

similar hostage situation.

However, care would have to be

exercised in any such inquiry, possibly limiting inquiry to

very reliable sources within the organization contacted to

avoid exposing the bureau's interest.

Another group offering an avenue of approach to

the problem is the presently arriving Cuban exiles, some of

whom are likely to be suspected CIS agents. The NYO is not

aware of the actual operation vis-a-vis interviews of incoming

refugees, although aware that there is a heavy volume of

traffic probably necessitating cursory interviews upon arrival.

It is not known whether information is solicited regarding

immediate relatives being held as political prisoners in Cuba.

REG- 133

105

--9993717-

2Bureau (RM) .

1-New York

mm

- To SAC,

Bale

VJW :mfw

(3)

3-23-6 Cent)

¿MCT-42

÷ 2

MAR 10 1966

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings PAT. By sIc.

DocId: 32312803 Page 3

---

