# docid-32330225

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90089-10260

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY. FILE NUMBER : 100-344127-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: MM

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/19/1959

3

ROLANDO MASFERRER

ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DIA

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

L DocId: 32330225

Page .1

---

## Page 2

Atrool. to Miant

, Joseph Hughes

105-78805

SE

SECRET

Immediately adulee local poltoe offtotale of the

indented informedion.

Ineditute

agence in Miam

reported to the Bureau and sepsrate investigatong instleutes. par 1,2

objeoclue of these investigationa should be to determine

whether their actiotstes bring then ofthin the purview of the

Poreign Agento Registrauton Act at 193%, do amended. x/u

But a is g3.

9145 s

Adlantos

anton to offlon of ortgin in captioned natter,

reder to ila nirtel 2/27/59 which noted subject indiented he

would endeavor to ontain date concerning OP. of. Cuba and uralch

i do Atlanta upon his return to that city. Upon Hughes"

Atlanto medictely interptew him concorning the indented

retries

information set

forth coove proteeding the Army on the source.

4

Dor the

information of Mont,

the subjeet ta an

American and technieal advieor for Cuban Air Joree.

He reoently

vicited Ablanto to aed his dying futher nt which time he was

interoloved concering hio possible involvement in l0 cocc and

his connedston with Cuban revolutionorys cotivitted,

(Subjeot

reportedly han been furnishing infornasion to U. S. Wavol Adtache,

concerning proposed Cubon plons to. invade Doninicon

Repualie 5re following in a decoription at the subjects

wome

Foul voseph Hughes

Made

DIA i

iNto iN D3

imite

Male

(bRACKETS) is CLASSiFiCA

Bate of Birth

20/0/26

Place or Birth

Atlantas

PER ThEIR 1ETo DTD. 10-23-87

Georate

Residence

584 frechmood Driven

• We Wo

Alente;

Georyte

5-094

64

11c & gho

Lives

Butle

Completon

Occupation

tuat enploument

status

275 pounde

(JEK)

Broton

Bone l

Slender

Medium

Too yeare college (de. Tech)

Airorart mechenio,

siudent

Ian Evaluation Clerk

City of Forest Park

Georgie

Happied

SECRET

SEC

DocId: 32330225

Page 2

---

