JFK Assassination System Date: 5/21/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10217-10499

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: —105-114543-23, 24

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DAVIS, GEORGE E. JR.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/13/1963
PAGES: 34

SUBJECTS :
JURE, FINANCES, OBJECTIVES, ORIGIN, INTV, LEADERSHIP
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 04/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC RPT

vl 15
Docld:32296723 Page 1


Report Form .
FD-243 (Rev. 5-12-55)

REPORTING OFFICE | ‘OFFICE OF ORIGIN
SAN JUAN SAN_JUAN
TILE OF CASE

. JUNTA REVOLUCIONARTA CUBANA
{Sumey REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA)
JURE

bi.
a

Co REFERENCES :

Bureau letter to san Juan 3/25 63.

r San Juan letter to Bureau 5/1/6:

4 Miami report of SA GEORGE E. D. V ‘ y

a Tampa letters with enclosures both: dated
WFO letter to Bureau 5/14/6. s

_-ECLASSIFIED py By au letter to New York 5/24/63, UL.
0 2226-97 a =P-

EADS
TAMPA DIVISION

<2 Cc y AT TAMPA, FLORIDA on

Submit reference

ed letters and enclosures and
future information develop.

ed in this matter in -report:

ray ee
S¥0> rad logon S2k

; ‘SPECIAL AGENT
APPROVED none HARGE,

EB bureau (105-114543) a
“ONT, loth, ND, sJ (By Hand) =
1-471st INTC Detachment, sz (By Hani vgs
2,981, Ramey AFB (am) Xe) |e JUN 2 6
- [ani y
Loantant" (105.6661) (tnt) Corr tor sie ete 7k =
1-New a rn) by ae if ty into. 7
2-Tampa (105-1843 “Atl. [St
2-WFO. (105-52081 Dat ofa, 3 by... Mi :
4-San Juan (105-6242) : :
(1-109-44) °(anti-PIDEr cAstRO: Activities)

mG

PROPERTY OF FBI.—This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to

2 1 JUN 28 1963

Docld:32296723 Page 2


If AT WASHINGTON, D.C,

ra

| DocTa:

8h 1-1 ts Gate PKI XY(u)

‘e °

OWEATENTIAL
CONEAE .
For the information of Tampa investigation in this
matter should be directed toward obtaining information which

would require registration of the JURE under the provisions of
the Foreign Agents Registration ACt of 1938, as amended. U.

MIAMI DIVISION (INFO) ae de

SJ 105-6242

AT MIAMT, FLORIDA

Information copy is being furnished to Miami in view
of their interest in this matter.Q.

_ NEW YORK DIVISION

A copy of this report is being furnished to New york
in view of outstanding investigation in that division. Z_

WASHINGTON: FIELD OFFICE
—— EEE CEELCE

In view of MANOLO RAY's current visit to Washington,
D. C., WFO should recheck Foreign Agents Registration Section
U. S. Department of Justice, to determine if subject organiza-
tion has been registered. MW. : i

SAN_JUAN DIVISION

“ay AT PONCE, PUERTO RICO
ee ETO ICO

Will locate alleged members of the JURE as indicated
in referenced San Juan letter to Bureau dated 5/1/63.%L,

AT SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO : i :
SE SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO_
Will follow and report tivities of the JURE.

. GA uso 'STRBEGASSIBEO
Cer THe Mgt UTR
FS ebdleed Friy326 Helar

entity of Source: Files Where Located
Oe e

SJ T-2 is ANGEL GOMEZ MENENDEZ __ 105-6242-16

WV (protect by request), a Cuban

exile employed by Sears Roebuck and Co,
and who resides at Porice :

Puerto Rico :

COVER PAGE

comer COWEEHTAL |

32296723 Page 3


sa 105-6242 C 7 or. ul (
CO cab” pNARENTL

"gg f-3 is JOSE MIGUEL PORTELA 105-6242- 16, 57, 68 and
- (protect by request), : 1A-3
® Cuban exile residing at

Block F, Gallardo Garden bby Pa ere a,
Apartments, Apartment 1A, Rio':™’
Piedras, Puerto Rico

a bifetlel Teil
ee a-4 1s[35 492-8] X/ur 134-607A-60, 81) iar

\

ml

ADMINISTRATIVE:

This report is classified "Secret" since it contains
information which was so classified by CIA. Ooo (4)

CHR Wh LP.) Is Rae
CuresNiep Pere THEA
veal :
a3 ddlec! 20,326
thle

: -C#-
COVER PAGE .

CONFIDXGI TIAL cOMEHOGATIAN

| Docla:32296723 Page 4


Report.Form

FD-263 (Rev. 5-12-55) Cc r : a ; i
-. «FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGA\

uuls

REPORTING OFFIGE OFRIGEOF ORIGIN are INVESTIGATIVE FERIOD
SAN JUAN SAN’ JUAN 6/21/63 | 4/19 ~ 6/17/63 ~ azeau
EC REPORT MADE BY
Te OTSA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA JOHN L, SPURGERS, JR. le
tes REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA) CHARACTER GF CASE
JURE)
IS - CUBA
RA - CUBA. :
CIA HAS NO OBJECT TON TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
AOPSiS ; : ss ae a JiFORMATION
fice iene HIS DOCUMENT,
REFERENCES : re

3 Bureau letter to san Juan 3/25 63.
- San Juan letter to Bureau 5/1/63.

WFO letter to Bureau 5/14/63.
Bureau letter to New York 5/24/63.
-P-

| F SLD, CS,
LEADS: DECLASSIFIED BY RY big .
bo- “-q Fite, j j
TAMPA Diviston OM b.2b-4 e mae .

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA
—— EEE

Submit referenced letters and enclosures’ and any
future information developed in this matter in report form, ele.

‘SPECIAL AGENT
iaediiishetdcce IN CHARGE,

=" Ciiireas (105-114543) :
“ONI, Oth, ND, sz (By Hand)
1-471st INTC Detachment, sz (By Han l)
-1-OSI, Ramey AFB (RM)
1-INS, SJ (By Hand) |
1-Miami (105-6661) (Info)
1-New york (Info)
2-Tampa (105-1843)
2-WFO (105-52281

= > (105-6240) i
(1-109-44) °(anti-FIDEL castRo Activities)

PROPERTY OF FBI.—This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and ngithay it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.
F AAR NK A GPO: 1958 0 -454008

' Docla:32296723 Page 5


m ) CONFIPERTIAL
SJ 105-62h2 —

MIAMI DIVISION (INFO)

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA
ee DA

of their interest in this matter,
NEW YORK DIVISION
EE DIVISION

A copy of this report’ is bein:
in view of outstanding investigation in

WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE
EE EECE

AT WASHINGTON, D.-c,
eee

D. C.,; WFO should recheck Foreign Agents
tion has been registered,
SAN_JUAN DIVISION

AT PONCE, PUERTO RICO

AT SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO

Identity of Source:
SI T-1 ‘9 Gea] pe GiyGuy

SJ T-2 is ANGEL GOMEZ MENENDEZ :
(protect by request), a Cuban

exile employed by Sears Roebuck and Co,
and who resides at Ponce,
Puerto Rico

COVER PAG.

ei CoweleariaL

For the information of Tampa investigation in this
matter should be directed toward obtaining information which
‘ would require registration of the JURE ‘under the provisions of
the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as amended,

Information copy is being furnished to Miami in view

g furnished to New york
that division,

In view of MANOLO RAY's ourrent visit to Washington,

Registration Section

U. S. Department of Justice, to determine if subject organiza-

Will locate alleged members of the JURE as indicated
in referenced San juan letter to Bureau dated 5/1/63.

Wi1l follow and. report ativities of the JURE.

: Cia INF IS. fein
Pere mH teja) ene
INFORMANTS: 93 rd SES. hee.

Files Where Located
aaee ere located

105-6242-16

CONFIDENTIAL COMPARA

| DocId: 32296723 Page 6


SJ 105-6242

SJ T-3 is JOSE MIGUEL PORTELA
(protect by request), pe
a Cuban exile residing at ;
Block F, Gallardo Garden‘ *
Apartments, Apartment 1A, Rio
Piedras, Puerto Rico

sz T-4 18 (83 492-3 _[Qyin

ADMINISTRATIVE:

inal co

7 CONPREGMTAL

(i34-6070-60, 67 | a

This report is classified "Secret" 5

. nee it egntains
information which was so classified by CTA. (®) Sepa)

ire (NF IS’ ie ee
Tuéwe ‘Wek ne.
Pes rddige/ 2,326 ele

senna CONF)RENTIAL

| Docla:32296723 Page 7



-
FEDER‘. 3UREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Fee
MIAMI SAN JUAN UN 1 21962 4/30 - 5/Bx63
TILE OF CASE : REPORT MADE BY TYPED BY
GEORGE E, DAVIS, JR. sll
JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA CHARACTER OF CASE CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA) DECLASSIFICATIC:
(JURE) i

- RUC -

- ADMINISTRATIVE <2):

This report is classified “secret” since it

nformation which was so classified by CIA. (a OG

uv
Copies of this report are designated for New York

and Washington Field Offices for information purposes in
4 view of their general interest in Cuban activities .%o

ontains i

further investigation

+ In the event the organization
becomes more active,

the case will be reopened. Je
sremoveo DECLASSIFIED, BY SOV Sew BO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW
cores wag OD = 26-97 WALA SV 3, al

J2 ~- Bureau (105-114543) (RM) 05

See Cover Page B

for additional copies, 3 JUN 14 1963
i ced
2 = Milani (105-6661) ~ eel

jw;

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTA:

dp ae
CHED a

5
of 4 svenent rising orice satooned

Docld:32296723 Page 8


a Re ere Nee issnaisessutetiaresseel

MM 105-6661

ae Copies made: (con't) vii co
} “Qre San Juan Ginko ea

New York Go)

Washington Field fo) (RM)

State Dept. (Cuban attire Office), Miami (RM) rei
CIA, Miami (RM)

U. S. Customs, Mid@i (RM). 4o~ ie
U. $. Border Patrol, Miami (KM) ss
U. S. Coast Guard, Miami (RM)

INS, Miami (RM)

G-2, Ft. McPherson, Ga. (RM)

ONI, Miami (RM)

OSI, Robins AFB, Ga. (RM)

COWF}QERTIRL

PREP BERR BRP RR

pret rervrernnad

- INFORMANTS -

Location

/ Identity

ae, ) prin Teie
| * in Oak) bh Ss earch Na
VM T-2 is JOAQUIN CODOoY, Instant file, page 2
< 1542 S. W. 8th Street, Miami,
Florida, who is an official of
[> the MRP. Ww

| | mers is (im 635-s] %(u | (i34-211-sub a) eG
I: at tts 13 fee 639-5) KU) a (i34-230-su» (WY)
AM 2-5 is fete 492-3) RG (34-44-sub a 1356) (a

- Be -
COVER PAGE

COMFENIAL

SVSAWEE

i
| Docla:32296723 Page 9


UREAU OF INVEMTIGATION

FEDERAc

REPORTING OFFICE | OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE : ) INVESTIGATIVE PERIOI
TITLE OF CASE

I a
MIAMI (San yuan | EER Fa 730!s. 546

| Reon aoe ov

| GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR. sll

| CHARACTER OF CASE
AS NO ORSECTION TO

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA
(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY
(JURE)

RELEASE Ur uf aS
iN THIS DOCUMENT.

alla Seal bl -97
REFERENCES: Bureau letter to San Juan dated 3/25/63.
San Juan letter to Bureau dated 5/1/63.

- RUC -

- ADMINISTRATIVE -

‘This report is classified "secret" since it
contains information which was so classified by CIA. OGL Lf )

Copies of this report are designated for New York
and Washington Field Offices for information purposes in
view of their general interest in Cuban activities .é

mhielqs

Ae fer
19a
| Mou, 326

of

we — = -
38 a This case is being placed in an RUC Status by
~¢ is Miami as it appears that activity by this organization
Cokes i 1@ Miami area is presently insufficient to justify
mvestigation, In the event the organization
becoues more active, the case will be reopened, %
as a SPECIAL AGENT fa

trepceterary BO NOT WRITE IN SPACES EFEOW |
COPIES MADE, Wo
i2 ~ Bureau (105-114543) (Rid) - |

see Cover Page §
for adciciornal “copies.

Miami (105-6661)

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT
f 7 2

AGENCY...

V8 GOVERNMENT PRINTING office 18-—TOdLé~1

Docld:32296723 Page 10


y at ceaee ~
Hee icseetae : oi
Gene

. ww
eli : ~y
f

MM, 105-6661

COMEIGEM Hr
Copies made: (con't) :

2 - San Juan (105-6242) (RM) i
1 - New York (Info) (RM) ; a
1 - Washington Field (Info) (RM) _ N

1 - State Dept. (Cuban Affairs Office), Miami (RM) }
1 - CIA, Miami (RM) :
1-U. S. Customs, Miami (RM)
1-U. S. Border Patrol, Miami (BM)
1-U. S. Coast Guard, Miami (RM)
1 - INS, Miami (RM)
1. Ge2, Ft, McPherson, Ga. (RM) ad
1 - ONT, Miami (RM) ;
1 - OSI, Robins AFB, Ga- (RM) j
|

- INFORMANTS -

Location

Identity

(ii T-1 is cman eu)

MM T-2 is JOAQUIN GODOY,

1542 8. W. 8th Street, Miami,
Florida, who is an official of
the MRP.

nt T-3 is [ait 635-5) KU
mm 7-4 is(iot 039-5] (4) .
vos T-5 is fons 492-8) Ful

Instant file, page 2

_

: WY
(is-211-sub a) K(4i |
[a34-238-sub_a} ur) | |

(i34-44-Sub A 1356 |

oe) |
es:

]

ees

- BY -
COVER PAGE

or

coarycaid

SVSreee

| Docld: 32296723

Page 11
