# docid-32263951

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/2/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10111-10046

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 012504

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

HSCA

BOESCH, GEORGE E.

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/05/1978

3

BOESCH, GEORGE E.

CIVIL AIR PANEL

OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, DESCRIPTION

AND........

LEADS AND INFORMATION

NEW ORLEANS, LA

FERRIE, DAVID

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/25/1995

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Box #:222.

v9.1

NW 55923

DocId: 32263951

Page 1

---

## Page 2

KENNEDY

012504

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

Identifying Information:

Name

Mr. George E. Boesch Jr.

Address

2724 Manley Ave.

City/StateMetairie, La.

Date of Birth 9-2-35

Social Security

JFK Act 6 (3)

10-05-78

• Physical Description:

Height 5'10"

Weight 190

Ethnic Group

Caucasian

Date

Place

Work

Telephone 504-833-1176

MOr S

Spouse_

Children

Color Eyes B1

Hair Brn

Special Characteristics

Personal History:

Present Employment: New Orleans Fire Denartment

Address

317 Decatur St.

Telephone 504-525-7424

b. Criminal Record

1. Arrests

2. Convictions

Additional Personal Information:

a.

Relative (s) :

Name

Address

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

-NW. 55923 DocId:32263951

Investigator Robert Buras

Date

Eage, 2

Lawrence Delsa

Form #4-B

---

## Page 3

KENNEDY

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

DATE 10-5-78

TIME LLAM

I.

Identifying Information:

Name

Mr. George E. Boesch Jr.

Address

:2724 Manley Ave., Metairie, La.

Type of Contact:

Telephone

I Person

504-833-1176

Telephone

II.

Summary of Contact:

Investigators Robert Buras and Lawrence Delsa met Mr. Boesch

at New Orleans Fire Station number

seven where he is employed.

Boesch stated that he remembers LEE HARVEY OSWALD a little

and that he knew DAVID FERRIE well. He joined the CAP in

1951 (approx.) from Metairie High School where a few others

joined but they did not stay long. Boesch was a maber of the

New Orleans Lakefront Squadron that met at the N.O. Lakefpont

Airport. He remembers Ferrie coming there and rising in rank

due to his ability and interest in the CAP. Ferrie was a part

of the Drill team that went to National Compétition along with

Boesch. Boesch stated that he flew with Ferrie to Cleveland,

Ohio, with George Piazza, and met Ferrie's family. Mother,

brother, and another couple that lived with them. He believes

III.

Recommended Follow-up (if any) :

Get Civil Air Patrol reunion list with names and addresses

of people that where around LHO and Ferrie's time together.

Signature:

NW

55923 DocId: 32263951.

Page

Robert Burar

Form #5

---

## Page 4

• Page two con't interview with Boesch, George Jr.

that Ferries father had died.

Boesch was interested in flying

and this brought him in contact with ferrie.

Ferrie had hair

when he first met him.

Later he saw Ferrie and Ferrie wasbald

because of some type of accident.

Ferrie flew many of the.

Cadets around the New Orleans Lakefront.

Boesch once flew with

him over a seminary north of Lake Ponchatrain and Ferrie mentioned

that he was either a priest at one time or that he had studied

for the priesthood.

Boesch thought that he might have indicateo

that he went to that seminary to study.

Boesch

stated that

Ferrie had his own plane at the time and was doing well.

Ferrie

was

very intelligent and to Boesch's knowledge he never

had any

tendercies towards homosexuality.

Boesch was surprised to

learn later from others that Ferrie had drinking parties at

his home and about some of the other things he herad about.

Boesch left the CAP around 56-7 and did not hear of any of

the

Cuban issues or Ferrie's troubles with the airlines until

much later.

Boesch remembers Ferrie as a decent sort of guy

that was interested in flying and teaching flying to kids.

FERRIE and Boesch went to the Misant Squadron to help

them get started witth a CAP program.

Ferrie did not like the

idea of girls learning anything about flying. He was even

against them being in

the CAP.

Boesch went to Moisant for

two or three months and remembers seeing LEE HARVEY OSWALD

there.

He can remember because there were only 12-15 people

meetings as opposed to sometimes 60-80 at Lakefront.

Boesch did

nim squiet have my social contact with OSwALD but remembers

He remembers others by faces but can not put

names to them because they did not gain the notoriety that

Oswald did. He san not place Oswald and Ferrie together at any

other place then these meetings.

saw

Boesch last FERRIE when he (Boesch) was driving a public

service bus.

Ferrie was handing out leaflets on Canal St.

and Elks Place and he waved to Boesch after seeing him.

Boesch

didn't know what the leaflets were about but later saw on

televation that this group (others unk) was handing out leaf-

lets about Cuba.

He can not remember if they were around the

same

time as Oswald was arrested.

Boesch stated that he never visisted Ferrie's apartment

He had no knowledge

on Atherton

of the parties that went on there. He suggested that the

following might be able to help us: James Lewallen, from Dave's

home town, Gene Cheralack (sp) a radioman whose family owns

Ferncrest Day School.

End

of Memo

NW 55923

Docid: 32263351

Page 4

---

