10/3/69

PLAINTEXT

x TELETYPE
Sg ; ST-101 i
y a a
TO SAC BOSTON (ige-845) a“ Gee oo ee \
FROM pranetn Wr (166-4355) —35

LUIGI GIOVANNI MANOCCHIO, AKA - FUGITIVE; FRANK ANTHONY
VENDITUOLI, AKA ~ FUGITIVE; ET AL. ITAR + GAMBLING.
00: BOSTON.

a
RE YOUR TELETYPE DATED OCTOBER THREE, NINITEEN SIXTY-NINE.
BUREAU AUTHORITY IS GRANTED FOR BUREAU AGENTS TO SERVE
SUBPOENA ON PEGGY HEYWOOD.

NOTE: This is case involving six Boston area hoodlums indicted for
ITAR-Gambling. Four subjects already arrested. These subjects,
besides being implicated in La Cosa Nostra,ordered gangland murder
of Boston bookmaker "@Ad.c+-uercheealoemacdeselicets plano kill
two Boston Agents.. Intensive investigation being pressed to locate
Manocchio and “ERE It appears Heywood may be able to furnish
information in this case and she previously indicated to Agents she
was "afraid" of being subpoenaed.

a

Ue

ua roo [J] TeLetyre unit

Docld:32576745 Page 1


é
FBI WASH DC (ie ge
eee a Mz. DeLoach_—
Mr, Mohx.
Mr. Bishop.
FBI BOSTON Mr. Casper——

419 PM URGENT 10-3-69 MCG
TO DIRECGWOR 166-4355

FROM BOSTON 166-345 P Mr. Trotter |
Tele. Room——
Miss Holmes——
Miss Gandy_—

Oo
LUIGI GIOVANNI MANOCCHIO, AKA DASH FUGITIVES

—_—_———
! FEE =!

FRANK ANTHONY VENDITUOLI, AKA DASH FUGITIVE; ET AL..ITAR DASH
GAMBLING. 00 BOSTON

REBSAIRTEL TO NEW HAVEN NINE TWENTYSIX LAST (CC BUREAU).
REBSAIRTEL REFLECTS INFO THAT PEGGY HEYWOOD, FALL RIVER,

MASS., HAS PERTINENT INFORMATION RE WHEREABOUTS OF VENDITUOLI.

ON TEN THREE INSTANT, TASK FORCE, BOSTON, ISSUED SUBPOENA

FOR HEYWOOD TO APPEAR FGJ, BOSTON, TEN AM, TEN NINE NEXT.

SHE WILL BE QUESTIONED RE HER CONTACTS WITH VENDI WHILE HE

WAS AT HOLIDAY INN, SEEKONK, MASS., DURING NINETEEN SIXTYEIGHT. ff
IT IS REQUESTED THAT BUREAU. AUTHORIZE BUREAU AGENTS TO

SERVE SUBPOENA ON HEYWOOD, ON OR ABOUT OCTOBER SIX, NEXT, AT

WHICH TIME SHE WILL AGAIN BE QUESTIONED RE VENDI. IT IS ‘NOTED

THAT ON PREVIOUS INTERVIEWS, HEYWOOD HAS TOLD BUAGENTS SHE
WAS “AFRAID” OF BEING SUBPOENAED IN THIS CASE. BS 57

ARMED AND DANGEROUS. go 16 Goi Gen Oe
END pche7| a : ST-10ls ocr. :7969
SLB e ee =

FBI WASH DC
CC: FUG. SUPVR.

Docld:32576745 Page 2

