FD-36,(Rev. 5822-64)

yw)
7 WY
FBI

Date: 3/30/65

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

v. AIRTEL AIRMAIL
we (Priority)

: DIRECTOR, FBI

FR SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (92-593)

3 seo: “tA COSA NOSTRA
~AR-~—-CONSPTRACY~~

g

IN VIEW OF THE SENSITIVITY OF THIS INFORMANT, EXTREME
CAUTION SHOULD BE UTILIZED IN ORDER THAT SOURCE Wi NOT BE
PR é

On 3/28/65, ALEX CAMARATA, member of the San Jose
family of LA COSA NOSTRA, informed SF 2550-C-TE that he received
r a message from his father-in-law, JOHN MISURACA, that a meeting
Gi of certain members of LA COSA NOSTRA would take place in Detroit,
Michigan, in May, 1965. The purpose of ithis meeting is to
recommend a definite course of action relative to the HAROLD

ee re iter and also possibly to consider outlining ee pran” ”
ig

EX COSA NOSTRA activiffies in the California area.

In 1964, JOHN,
of the COLUMBO famiTyy

7

r

a

IISURACA was identified as a Caporegima
OSTRA, New York. zl

For the benefit of offices having no prior information
regarding the above mentioned HAROLD SMITH matter, summarized

is background and recent pertinent developments reported by
SF 2550-C-TE.

FILED DY

(RM)

RM
2 - Buffalo eae RM
2 - Chicago (92-1123)

UNBECORDED COPY

Sent M Per Lo,
pSbecial Agent in Charge Sy
PAS SOD :

Docld:32576623 Page 1



0 oN
Ww

SF 92-593

RV: cg

In the late 40s or early 50s there was a family
fight occuring in the HAROLD SMITH family of the Harold's
Club, Reno, Nevadgf Information developed since that time
indicates HAR THeewSR., wanted his stepmotner killed ¢<, he
and all —afranged with a member of- the San Jose family———
of LA COSA NOSTRA to have this done, Subsequently, the SMITH
family trouble was settled and the cohtract was cancelled.
However, LA COSA NOSTRA feels that “Since the contract was. agreed
upon, SMITH still owed the money which has been stated currently
as $100,000. Since the mid 50s a number of unsuccessful attempts
have been made to collect this amount from HAROLD SMITH, §R.,
and the situation has been the subject of discussion by the
San Jose group on a number of occasions but to date, no deffnite
plan of action has been selected by LA COSA NOSTRA.

e On 3/8/65, at about 10:00 p.m., BF 2550-C-TE received
a telephone call from ALEX CAMARATA who but a few minutes earlier

3 - Detroit (RM)
2 = 92-914)
1 -. 137-3668)
2 - Las Vegas (RM
a ~ 92-265)
1- clea
2 - Los Angeles (92-1112) (RM)
2 = Miami oie (Ret)
2 - Milwaukee (92-262) (RM)
3 - Newark :
a - oe (RM) oe
1 = 92-1213 “
3 - New York (RM)
ie - eee)
2 - 92-2378
“Q = Atel (98-1027) (RM)
2 - Tampa
e - se-2u6}\
1 = 92-218
6 = San Francisco
1 = 92-593
1 - 92-48
1 = 92-603 ee
1 = 92=508
1 = 92-06 —
1 - 137-2571)

Docld:32576623 Page 2


SF 92-593
RV: cg

was in contact with JOHN MISURACA (who called long distance

from New Jersey). MISURACAtold ALEX that he interided to

call SF 2550-C-TE direct, but wisplaced his telephone number.
Purpose of JOHN's call wag obtain from informant the home ‘
telephone number of JOSEP. « According to ALEX, yeF
MISURACA attempted td co ae “CERRITO at his automobile agentéy
after the regular working ‘hours, but was advised that CERRITO
was gone for the day. The person MISURACA talked with de-
clined to furnish CERRITO's home phone number.

Informant furnished ALEX with CERRITO's home phone
number and ALEX indicated he would relay this information to
MISURACA immediately. ALEX then remarked in Sicilian that
"the shepherd went to the mountains against JOHN's orders",
which was interpreted by informant to mean that CERRITO had
gone to Reno, Nevada in connection with the HAROLD SMITH caper
against JOHN MISURACA's wishes, ALEX then instructed informant
that he was to contact CERRITO at his home within the week,
adding that informant should not be surprised if he were to
have a "visitor" at his home at any moment, ALEX would not
give informant any further details or clarify his statement
on the telephone. Informant, as of this date, has not: re~
ceived any guests or visitors at his home. ‘

SF 2550-C-TE said he dropped in at the CERRITO home
on Sunday, 3/14/65, but was advised by CERRITO's married
daughter that CERRITO was called away on business. She sug-
gested that informant confirm any future meeting with her
father by telephone. Informant telephonically contacted
CERRITO on the night of 3/16/65, who instructed him to meet
him at the Los Gatos Lodge within one half hour. At the

\ appointed time, informant met CERRITO at the lodge and
CERRITO apologized for not meeting at his home, his excuse
peing that earlier in the day he had made arrangements to
receive a long distance call at the Los Gatos Lodge (which
he apparently had handled prior to informant's arrival at the
lodge).

Informant then opened conversation advising CERRITO
that he had been instructed by CAMARATA to contact CERRITO,
put informant made no mention of the fact that he was aware
of CERRITO's travel to Reno; however, he did mention that he
furnished CERRITO's phone number to JOHN MISURACA, CERRITO
prushed off any further comment in connection with any contact
he had or may have had with MISURACA saying, "It was all right -

Docld:32576623 Page 3


@ c

SF 92-593
RV:ceg

it was nothing of any importance." CERRITO then inquired as

to informant's employment. Informant indicated to CERRITO

that he was doing very well with his job and that financially
was ‘better off than he has been in a longtime, CERRITO
praised informant's attitude and asked if. informant had given
any thought to “bettering himself", adding that, if he, CERRITO,
were offered a Cadillac franchise, he would without hesitation
drop his Lincoln-Mercury dealership since it would be an oppor-
tunity to make more money. He then indicated to informant that
he wanted informant "to make one more try up in Reno”; that he
wanted informant to.obtain a job in that city. Informant: ady
vised CERRITO that it would be most difficult 'to give up
present job and further, he knewm one in Reno except G LE.
CERRITO said that he would not have to be concerned wt ENT eva
anymore because "he's dead anyway." CERRITO told informant ante
he had a contact in Reno who could help informant locate the
right job, although the identity ofthis person was not dis-
-closed by CERRITO. CERRITO then asked, "What do you think of
taking the boys for a ride?" (meaning, taking ALEX CAMARATA
and PETE MISURACA to Reno with him). Informant told CERRITO
that if he had any choice in the matter and if it was only to
travel on a routine trip, hewould rather not take PETE along
but “if it's business concerning Our Thing, I'll take him
along. :

On 3/21/65, informant was advised by JOE CERRITO
that he was postponing the meeting planned for this night to
3/23/65. He instructed informant to be at the Los Gatos
Lodge, San Jose, California, at 8:30 p.m. and that he was
to bring ALEX with him.

Informant immediately contacted ALEX advising him
of the change in plans and ALEX indicated that he would be
present.

During the afternoon of 3/23/65, Mrs. ALEX CAMARATA
telephonically informed informant's wife that her husband would
be unable to attend the meeting at Los Gatos Lodge as they were
expecting a relative from Detroit.

Upon receipt of the above message, informant contacted
ALEX at bis home who stated he “wanted no part of it" and flatly -
refused to attend the meeting.

hy

Docld:32576623 Page 4


SF 92-593
RV:cg

Informant did not press ALEX for his reasons as

ALEX will not engage in discussions over the phone which concerns
organization business, Informant was of the opinion that
ALEX was aware of what was to be discussed at the meeting although
informant, himself, had no inkling of what was to transpire.

CAE?
instructions, informant met CERRITO
thé night of 3/23/65. CERRITO was #
accompanied by DOMI .« Informant made an excuse for
ALEX's absencé,€xpraw ning-that—an unexpected guest had arrived
at his home and also, that ALEX indicated he was not interested
in whatever it was that was to be, discussed.

Per his previo'
at the Los Gatos Lodge

According to informant,  DOMINICK dominated the
entire meeting in that he did most of the talking. He inquired
as to whether or not informant was satisfied with his job and
the salary he was receiving. He talked as though he was leading
up to a job offer. His conversation, according to informant
was such that it was either "double talk" or that DOMINICK
believed that informant had complete knowledge concerning the
matter under discussion. In apparent reference to the HAROLD
SMITH matter at Reno, Nevada, and informant's 3/16/65 discussion
with CERRITO (above), ANZALONE told informant that it was
up to him informant} and him alone to make a decision; that
"up there (Reno) you don't know who you're dealing with and you
have to be careful." Informant told ANZALONE that he didn't know
who he was supposed to contact in Reno, to which CERRITO replied, :
"DAVIS" - "you know, it's just a name like (HARCLD) SMITH or
anybody else." ANZALONE then added, "something had to be done
(in Reno) and you (informant) will have to decide if you're the
man to handle the assignment
not a gambler. You've already told SMITH who you are."

With reference to CERRITO's last statement, informant
believes CERRITO was indicating that informant's mere presence in
sight of HAROLD SMITH would serve as pressure and a reminder
that the organization was serious in getting monies owed by
SMITH, :

On 3/29/65, informant advised that on
3/28/65, ALEX CAMARATA informed SF 2550-C~TE that his visitor
of 3/23/65 was widow of SAM MISURACA. SAM, deceased brother of
JOHN MISURACA, was killed in gangland fashion in the Detroit
area in 1919.

J \

', CERRITO inserted, "They know you're |

Docld:32576623 Page 5


oc O 1s

SF 92-593
RV: cg

ALEX did not volunteer SAM's widow's name although
he did mention that a few years following SAM's death, she
married a close friend of SAM's at the time of his murder.

: The main purpose of her visit was to deliver a
message from ALEX's father-in-law, JOHN MISURACA. She advised
ALEX that her son (or possibly grandson) is to be ordained
to the Priesthood next May in Detroit, Michigan, and that this
occasion would afford an excellent time for meeting of certain
organization members in that it would attract little or no’
attention of the authorities. ALEX indicated that JOE CERRITO,
Don of the San Jose, California Family of LA COSA NOSTRA, would
ve invited in addition to many other friends" including members.

_ of high statue within the organization,

SF 2550-C-TE then informed ALEX as to his meeting
with JOE CERRITO and DOMINICK ANZALONE on 3/23 last, and that
he wasn't at all-certain as to exactly what CERRITO and ANZALONE
had in mind with regard to the Reno situation.

ALEX then explained that CERRITO was recently in
contact with JOHN MISURACA at which time the HAROLD SMITH
matter was discussed. Upon termination of their discussion

ie it was agreed between the two men that should further discussion
be necessary it could, be handled by long distance phone calls
to pre-arranged locations.

With regard to CERRITO's and ANZALONE's proposal that
informant might take it upon himself to go to Reno, ALEX suggested
that informant "tell CERRITO and ANZALONE to shove it", adding :
that informant shouldavait the outcome of the Detmit meeting
planned for next May at which time a definite course of action
would be recommended.

ALEX was of the opinion that since CERRITOMms lost
much prestige on the HAROLD SMITH matter, he is naturally
desirous of showing that progress is being made at Reno, especially
in view of the fact that this would be one of the main topics
of discussion at the Detroit meeting. ALEX pointed out that
CERRITO and ANZALONE would not order informant to resolve the
Reno issue but were attempting to get him to volunteer for this
mission; their reason being that if informant failed they
would not lose face and therefore be further embarrassed, but

Docld:32576623 Page 6


SF 92-593
RV:cg

if he were to be successful, they could claim all credit
and regain their lost prestige.

ALEX added that JOHN MISURACA is attempting “to
get something going out here (California)" in addition to
resolving the HAROLD SMITH matter but that JOE CERRITO wants
no part of it. ALEX said, "JOE has the car business (Lincoln-
Suet Mercury dealership) and doesn't want to do anything against
the law". "How would he feel if he didn't have any cars--~
if they took it away?" "What they give they can take back.
JOE's satisfied but people in the East aren't. Like JOHN said
at Roswell, (New Mexico) they don't know what they're doing
out here,"

ALEX hinted that both he and the informant may
be invited to the Detroit meeting.

LEADS:
- DETROIT

AT DETROIT.MICHIGAN: Will review your fik entitled
"SF 2745-PC, TECIP™. Detroit file Number 137-3668 wherein
Detroit has conducted research in connection with the murder
of SAM MISURACA in 1919.

Will through review ofappropriate marriage records
and/or other sources identify widow of SAM MISURACA under her
present address.

Will in a discreet manner verify her trip to California,
described above.

Will identify her son (in all probability, grandson) who
is to be ordained in Detroit as this person may or may not be
using the last name of MISURACA, :

Will through records of the Arch Dlocese covering
Detroit, determine exact date of his ordination.

Will formulate plans to afford proper coverage in the
event the meeting described above does take place, :

Docld:32576623 Page 7


©
‘Se

SF 92-593
RV:eg/jl

NEWARK

AT NEWARK, NEW JERSEY: Will immediately attempt
to develop information through logical sources that may

assist Detroit in identifying MISURACA's sister-in-law and

also his relationship to the person who is to be ordained in

May and furnish same to the Detroit Division for their assistance
in coverage of leads.

ALL_OTHER OFFICES:

Copies are being furnished in the event that these
offices possibly have members in attendance at the proposed
Detroit meeting, and offices receiving copies of this communicatio:
should be alert for any and all information relative to the
matter set out in the body of this communication.

Dissemination to the above offices is not all-inclusive,
and the Bureau may desire to consider further dissemination to
any other appropriate offices.

San Francisco Division is maitaining close contact
with SF 2550-C-TE in connection with the meeting in Detroit.

a

Docld:32576623 Page 8
