# docid-32291384-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10207-10160

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3182-96

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

01/31/1961

2

GAL, ACT, ASSOC, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

02/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

338

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

•FBI

Date:

1/31/61

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority of Method of Mailing)

TO . : DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, CHICAGO (92-373)

GUS ALEX, aka.

AR

Rebuairtel to Chicago, 1/26/61 enclosing

copies of cablegram received from Legat, Bonn.

Contacts with Chicago informants on 1/30/61, and

pretext calls made to subject's residence, do not disclose

presence of ALEX in Chicago.

CG 6343-C* advisga on 1/30/61 that HONe

ACCARDO discussed with JINMYYCELANO the presence of. Chicago

hoodlums, and was

told by cHlAvo that "they are all out of

town".

An exception is SAM GIANCANA

who according to

CELANO, is in Chicago. It is noted that ACCARDO has just

returned to Chicago from Hot Spripgs, Arkansas.

CG 6343-C* has indicated in the recent past that

ALEX intended to make a trip to Switzerland in the near

future (information received in early part of January, 1961).

Informant also advised that ALEX was looking for someone,

"out west". PCI BERNARD LIEBLING advised that LOUIE ARGER,

Lieutenant of ALEX, indicated that ALEX was in Palm Springs,

California, with SID KORSHAK,

probably on 2/3/61. CG 6241-C advised on 1/29/61 that he

learned that ALEX was in California

Chicago on the weekend of 2/4/61 REC-

INFORMATION OBTAINED TROM CG 6343-0*

1 - Los Angeles

NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED,

AND IF UTILIZED

SHOULD BE CAREFULLY PARAPHRASED.

1 - Chicago

RRH: JEH

(5)

& FEB & 1969

Approved

2 FEB 1 0 196 pecial Agent in Charge

Sent

_ M

Per

---

