AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD_NUMBER: = 124-10179-10129

RECORD SERIES: SA
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 89-250-1-5366

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, KC
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 09/30/1980
PAGES: 7
SUBJECT: JFK, EVID, NOTE, ALLEGATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: | PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL ‘ NEW
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: — 09/24/1997 UPDATE DATE: — 02/12/2001
STATUS  Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (4)
COMMENTS: DATE LOWER LEFT CORNER

DocId:32174310 Page 1


hy

a4

F0-202 (REV. 39-77) |

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1. 10/2/80

Date of transcription.

: Jerry nay Ga (PROTECT IDENTITY) adyised that in
a recent conversation with fellow inmate Travigtiesin on
Wednesday, September 24, 1980, as well as Saturday, September 27,
1980,,;Irwin advised James that he (Irwin) had spoken to

Jimmy Chagra on September 23 and 24, 80. At that time
Nagra to ‘ravis Irwin that i larrelson was currently
in custody at Houston, Texas, and Harrelson had previously

written a note allegediy admitting that he (Harrelson)ywas
responsible for the assassination ete dents sone FAKennedy,
as well as the murder of Judge Wood. In addition, the note

was alleged to have stated that while Harrelson peysona
and solely assassinated Kennedy, he assisted Lary th
in the murder of Judge Wood and Culbreath actually fired the
weapon killing the Judge but Harrelson had planned the "hit"
and received payment for this contract.

Jimmy agra had related these facts to Irwin

shortly after Yoshcnagra had visited Jimmy at Leavenworth

on September 23, 1980.” Joe Chagra had also stated that the

"note" was currently in the possession of law enforcement

officers and that he (Joe) had a "contact" with ane of these

officers and was thus able to find out the contents of the

alleged note. The note was supposedly recovered from Harrelson's

personal effects subsequent to his arrest in early September, 1980.
t

Jimmy Chagra also advised Irwin that the final payment
on the $200,000 assassination fee had just been made to Harrelson
in the last two or three months at El Paso, Texas. This money
had been paid Harrelson but the exact amount of the balance
payment was unknown by Irwin or James.

In conversation with Irwin, James has. been able to
determine the facts concerning Jimmy Chagra and his relationship
with Charlie Harrelson. According to Irwin, Jimmy Chagra
first met Charlie Harrelson when both were gambling, perhaps
poker, at Las Vegas, Nevada, just before Judge Wood was killed
in May, 1979. As a result of this meeting in May, 1979, a
"contract" was given to Charlie Harrelson by Jimmy Chagra
against the life of Judge Wood. James did not exactly know
how Irwin came to know these facts but believes Jimmy Chagra
had told Irwin. \

: ee Kansas City -
investigation on___2/30/80 | 4" ,,_ Leavenworth Kansas pn 9=STS=SUE BST OT
' l B-2S0 G+/-S3¢

SA Michael P. Shanah te aictatea__ 10/2/80

by a
This document contains neither recommendations ndr concluslonseX APRN PONTE ENF Prdperty of the FBI and.is foaned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be distributed outside youragency-

¢ Docla:32174310 Page 2—



$..
3.

KC 83-319-SUB B 2.

In conversation between Travis Irwin and Jerry
Ray James, both have discussed the facts which Jimmy
Chagra has told them concerning the murder of Judge Wood.
It is the conclusion of both Irwin and James that Jimmy
Chagra is truthful when he stated that he was responsible
for the death of Judge Wood; however, Travis Irwin doubts
the truthfulness of Harrelson's statements that Larry
Culbreath was the "trigger man" at the murder of Judge Wood.
Irwin has stated to James that he knows "everything Larry
Culbreath has done in his life," and Irwin stated that
Culbreath has denied any participation in the Wood murder
and Irwin is confident that if in fact he (Culbreath) were
involved, Irwin would have known of it by now. James stated
that he trusts Irwin's statements regarding Culbreath and
Irwin thinks of James as a "god" and "looks up to James",
and would not withhold anything from him. James advised Irwin
and Culbreath had grown up together in Texas and have been
friends in excess of twenty years.

Irwin had also determined from either Jimmy Chagra
or Culbreath himself that Culbreath was arrested either the
day after or two days after the Wood murder while Culbreath
was driving Harrelson's car from San Antonio to Pleasanton,
Texas. James did not know the nature of the arrest and only
that it occurred between San Antonio and Pleasanton, Texas.
Irwin has also related to James that just prior to James
arrival at Leavenworth in June, 1980, Jimmy Chagra had told
him (Irwin) that Harrelson was "good, real good at doing
his job." Since this statement was related to James in the
context of comments about the murder of Judge Wood, it was
mutually understood by James and Irwin that Jimmy Chagra's
statement had reference to Harrelson's ability to "fill
contracts", e.g. murder for hire.

With regard to Jimmy Chagra's solicitation of
Jerry Ray James to procure six or eight individuals to
smuggle marijuana into the United States, as well as the
murder of a former witness against Chagra, James is firmly
convinced that if he refused to locate the individuals
for either "job" for Jimmy Chagra, Jimmy would reach out
and find someone else to do the work.

DocId:32174310 Page 3



om as 8 EB

sbegabe se Some enti tette Reenemeremas ee

ciate:

DocId: 32174310 “Page: 4 . oo

KC 89-319-SUB B 3.

James advised that while "B" and "D" cellblocks
are separate from each other, inmates are allowed to see
each other in the common area of the main building from
5:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. each day. Located in this common
area are such facilities as the barbership, pool hall,
and card rooms. Travis Irwin would see and talk to Jimmy
Chagra generally in the pool hall area since Irwin has a
cell in "D" cellblock.

James could not offer any explanation as to why
Joe Chagra would be attempting to secure a bond fo
Harrelson since Chagras had routinely utilized Vv
as their bondsman; however, Apodaca is currently in "serious
trouble" with IRS and is under indictment. James stated
that Jimmy Chagra had given Apodaca a sizeable amount of
jewelry to secure his bond in his last drug case. Jimmy
Chagra later replaced the jewelry with $500,000 cash and
eventually "skipped" bond and was a federal fugitive.

James also stated that the Warden at Leavenworth
saw a friend of James in the hallway and told him that
Jimmy Chagra would be transferred to "Dp" cellblock.



e- ?

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1. bate of wansription 20/2/80
‘ Jerry Ray James (PROTECT IDENTITY) advised that in

a recent conversation with fellow inmate Travis Irwin on

Wednesday, September 24, 1980, as well as Saturday, September 27,

1980, Irwin advised James that he (Irwin) had spoken to

Jimmy Chagra on September 23 and 24, 1980. . At that time

Chagra told Travis Irwin that Charlie Harrelson was currently

in custody at Houston, Texas, and Harrelson had previously

written a note allegedly ‘admitting that he (Harrelson) was

responsible for the assassination of President John F. Kennedy ,

as well as the murder of Judge Wood. In addition, the note

was alleged to have stated that while Harrelson personally

and solely assassinated Kennedy, he assisted Larry Culbreath

in the murder of Judge Wood and Culbreath’ actually fired the

weapon killing the Judge but Harrelson had planned the "hit"

and received payment for this contract.

Jimmy Chagra had related these facts to Irwin
shortly after Joe Chagra had visited Jimmy at Leavenworth
on. September 23, 1980. Joe Chagra had also stated that the
"note" was currently in the possession of law enforcement
officers and that he (Joe) had a "contact" with ane of these
officers and was thus able to find out the contents of the
alleged note. The note was supposedly recovered from Harrelson's
personal effects subsequent to his arrest in early September, 1980.

Jimmy Chagra also advised Irwin that the final payment
on the $200,000 assassination fee had just. been made to Harrelson
in the last two or three months at El Paso, Texas. This money
had been paid Harrelson but the exact amount of the balance
payment was unknown by Irwin or James.

In conversation with Irwin, James has been able to
determine the facts concerning Jimmy Chagra and his relationship
with Charlie Harrelson. According to Irwin, Jimmy Chagra
first met Charlie Harrelson when both were gambling, perhaps
poker, at Las Vegas, Nevada, just before Judge Wood was killed
in May, 1979. As a result of this meeting in May, 1979, a
"contract" was given to Charlie Harrelson by Jimmy Chagra
against the life of Judge Wood. James did not exactly know
how Irwin came to know these facts but believes Jimmy Chagra
had told Irwin.

Kansas City

9/30/80 Leavenworth, Kansas rite «892319-SUB B

Investigation on baeseseer
'

ty SA Michael P. fee : pate aictatea__10/.2/ 80 :

99.8- ASD = Sul 534+

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and-is-loaned to your agency;
It and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId:32174310 Page 5


are -on*
Wedne. day, Septemwes 24, 1980," as: well as satubday 5 "Septenber: 27,
eee °1980., Irwin. advised Fameé that’ he’ (Irwih): -had. spoken:to ~~ :
iaceeat Timmy Chagra: on: Jeptember™.23- and. 24,°1980. At that time~
, hagra ‘told ‘Tr: Irwin that Charlie.Harrelson .was
istody at, Houston,? Texas ,:and.Harrelsof had PB)
rallegedly yadmitting, ‘that.-he: (H.
Pesponsible. for*the assassinati of. President John. F: Kennedy, °
as well as the. murder, of Judge’ Wood. .In, addition; 'the note. 7s 0. 0+
was ‘alleged to “have ‘stated that. while Harrelson personally -
and. solely ‘assassinated Kennedy, «he ° assisted‘ Larry: Culbreath, ”
/ in the murder of Judge “Wood. an Culbreath ‘actually’ 7
i ._ Judge” but: Ha mnelsén ha i]

‘tated. ‘that the
enforcement - .

officers. and” w,
"- alleged note.
- pérsonal, effé

* : dimny: hagra also. advised’ Irwin. hat: the,
on’-the , $200-3000 ina! ton ‘fee -had just been: made: to Harrelson
in “the. ‘last two. 'o hree: ‘months. at.El> Paso, Texas. ‘This: money
had. been paid Harrelson ‘but. the. exact amount
: Payment “was ‘unkno by Trwin or:

7 inal: payment

In conversation with Ivw:
determine the facts concerning Jimmy Chagra.and-his. yelationship
with Charlie. Harrelson. According to Irwin;' my--Chagra
first. met, Charlie Harrélson when ;both ‘were ‘gambling, perhaps-
poker, . at -Las | Végas 5. ‘Nevada ; 3s before’ Judge ood. was “killed “*

sain’ May, 1979.° ‘As’ a result o Yeti in-May, 1979,°a a

"contract": was. given to Char Harrelson by Jimmy Chagra
against the life of Judge Wooi + dames did not exactly ‘know
how Irwin came to know. these, faets, but believes Timmy, Chagra
had eben Irwin. . , :

“Kansas ‘City,
7892 319- SUB B

Investigatidn on

by.

SA Michael ..P:

ithe property of the FBI and-ts loaned to your agency;

"This document contain neiiner redcrinmendaticins nat conclusions-of the Fai.
it and itscontents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

becrdi 32174310 ~ Page


“Ray James.,., both have: dis. e a
7 Chagra’ has told=them : cone: ing. the. murder” f Judge Wood
It is. the: conclusion, ofboth: Irwin ‘a James that. Jiminy eothe 10

oF ene -is’ truthful”.when. he stated. tha i: : :
‘for the dedth of Judge Woods wever, Travis: “Irwin. doubts
‘the’ ‘truth tu f i statements, that, Larry." ©
‘phe "trigger cman" at’ the: jnurder. of. Judge. Wood.)
hat he knows tis Stleca :

Irwin: has ° also “pélated to: James- that
" aprival at! Leavenworth in June’, .1980.,. n

A i food, “real good’ at .doing
i rT n the -

his j
*“ eontext-of comments ‘about: the: murder. o.
mutually: understood. by James ‘and Irwin: -tha
statement “nad neferencé. td" Harrelson's:
. contracts", é.g- murder. ‘for. hire.

Jimmy ‘Chagras
to, _ the: swork

Docld:32174318 * Page



nd° talk. to odmimy
Chagra: generally ‘in’ the: Pook: hall. area 8] ince Irwin’ Leal ca

: offer: any. ‘explanation as. to: why.”
; Joe Chagra would be” attempting to secure fe

.-Harrelson. sincé Chagras *had- routinely- utiliz
as their bondsman howe er, “Apodaca

“/. that.

«” dames ‘stated se
immy: Chagia : had given. Apodaca a sizeable amount: of
jewelry ‘to‘secure his bond in ‘his last drug: case.- Jimny
hagra later replaced the ‘jewelry with. $500,000 cash: and

kipped” bond . cand was a federal fugitive. poeoaeeat at

James: also” stated that the. Warden, at Leavenworth:, ors
‘friend. of James-in’the hallway and- ‘told him that’

ratisferred to: uD" cel block -

Docld:32174310 , Page 8

