JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10303-10144
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-9-7-62
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: VOGELSANG, HAROLD A.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE: — 10/31/1958
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS :
PRJ, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, SLOT MACHINE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/06/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.l
DocId:32310530 Page 1


C O

Br 94-277

is
is
is
is.
is

i) ara rara
WMEWNe

iY
fon)

is

T-7 is
: 7-8 is
: “T-9 is

T-10 is
T-11 is
7-12 is
T-13 is
T-14 is
7-15 is
7-16 is
[-17 is PCI HOWARD OLSEN, Billings, Montana.
T-18 is
T-19 is
T-20 is

INFORMANT SHEET

Br 246-C, Pocatello, Idaho.

PCI CLYDE J. DENTON, Boise, Idaho.

Br 51-C, Boise, Idaho.

PCI JOHN SEGEDI, Homedale, Idaho.

CARL IRELAN, JR., Boise, Idaho, who is being
developed as a PCI. =

HARVEY MIGHELL, Russell, Kansas, a former Informant
of the Kansas City Office, whose identity
is being kept confidential because of the
information he has furnished.

PCI WALTER NEUMANN, Billings, Montana.

PCL FRANK CIPECH, Billings, Montana.

PCL RUSSELL J, HITSON, Great Falls, Montana.

198-C, Missoula, Montana.

250-C, Missoula, Montana.

178-C, Boise, Idaho.

176-C, Boise, Idaho.

226-C, Boise, Idaho.

223-C, Butte, Montana.

197-C, Billings, Montana.

3888888

PCI JOE W. HOILAND, Roundup, Montana.
PCI JAMES R, WOODS, Billings, Montana.
Br 228-c, Great Falls, Montana.

7-21 is PCI CLAY ANDERSON, Great Falls, Montana.

T-22 is
T-23 is
T-24 is
T-25 is
T-26 is

PCI THOMAS SMITH, Great Falls, Montana.
Br 114-C, Kalispell, Montana.

Br 248-c, Kalispell, Montana.

PCI REX WORRALL, Columbia Falls, Montana.
PCI ERIC ANDERSON, Missoula, Montana.

7-27 is BI 213-C, Boise, Idaho.

[T-28 is PCI EUGENE BROWN, Idaho Falls, Idaho.

T-29 is PCI JOE CARRAL, Idaho Falls, Idaho.
[-30 is PCI REUBEN ROSEN, Lewiston, Idaho.
j [-31 is PCI F, D. MORGAN, Bozeman, Montana.
; T-32 is PCI V. V. MORRIS, Gardiner, Montana.
7-33 is BI 186-C, Boise, Idaho.
T-34 is BI 245-C, Boise, Idaho.
+35 is Br 234-C, Lewiston, Idaho.

Ne

6 is
7 is
8 is PCL R. H, PARRENT, Livingston, Montana,
9 is
O is

Br 221-C, Butte, Montana.
PCI HELEN HARDY, Dillon, Montana.

PCL MIMI BOGGS, Billings, Montana.
PCI CHARLES HOLDEN, Glasgow, Montana.

- 101 -

(

| DocId: 32310530 Page 2

