# docid-32246422

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10074-10480

RECORD SERIES:

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 009917

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

1O :

TITLE :

HSCA

WEBSTER, ROBERT E.

DATE : 03/16/1978

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

RAND CORPORATION

WEBSTER, ROBERT E; INTERVIEW

WEBSTER, ROBERT E.; DEFECTION TO RUSSIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/25/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

Box 183.

Reteaaed ander Dne Jean Eo Xeraedy Raaaaairabier Reocade Seiledoder 208 e9 4992

Febei.

Caae=:x 9a325 Caue: C2-02-2522

v9.1

NW 55923

DocId: 32246422

Page

1

1

10/1/201

1€÷ FES 229

---

## Page 2

KENNEDY

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

009917

1. Identifying Information:

Name_

Robert E. Webster

Address

City/State Ellsworth, Maine

Date of Birth 10/23/28

Social Security 207-667-9715

2. Physical Description:

Height

Weight

Ethnic Group

Date 3/16/78

Place Holiday Inn

(office)

Telephone 207-667-9715 (h) 207-244-5531

Mor S

Spouse_

Children

Color Eyes

Hair

Special Characteristics

3.

4.

Personal History:

a.

Present Employment:

Address

Telephone

b. Criminal Record

1. Arrests

2. Convictions

Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s) : Name

Address

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

Investigator

Date

NW 55923 DocId: 32246422 Page

2

-.....

Harald 1 Feat

Form #4-B

---

## Page 3

NAME Robert E. Webster

Address

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Date_ 3/16/78

Time

Place Holiday Inn

Ellsworth, Maine

Interview:

on 3/16/18 Staff Investigator Leap interviewed

Robert E. Webster at the Holiday Inn, Ellsworth, Maine

relative to his defection to Russia in July of 1959,

his return to the U.s. in 1962,

and related matters.

Webster was working for the Rand Corporation

of cleveland, Ohio at the time of his defection.

He

was sent to Moscow by the Rand Corporation to prepare.

an exhibit for the firm which would be displayed at

the International Trade Fair.

Webster made three trips to Russia. He defected :

on the third trip, all the necessary arrangements with

Russian officials were made during his second trip.

webster's defection was on his own initiative

and was not related to political ideology. He fell in

love with a Russian girl, an interpreter at the hotel

in which he was staying. Webster decided he wanted to

remain with Vera

and made inquiry with

Rusian officials at the International Fair as to whether

Interviewer

Nara

(Signature)

Harola D. Leap

(Name):

Date Transcribed 4/26/78

byCS

(Ini

NW. 55923 DocId:32246422 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Interview: R.E. Webster

it would be possible for him to remain in Russia.

The Fair officials relayed Webster's request

to the proper government officials (could. not remember

names) .

The decision was made that Webster could

remain with limitations.

Webster knew this before he

returned to the U.S. from his second trip.

Webster's first two trips were in preparation

for the Fair. The third trip was to run the Rand Corpo-

ration exhibition at the Fair. The Russian Government

officials encouraged Webster to defect during the fair.

Webster was of the opinion that the motive for the

Russian encouragement was his expertise in the field of

plastics utilization. Webster said that the U.S. was'

ten years ahead of the Russians at that time. The

Russian officials suggested that Webster leave a note

for his American partner to the effect that Webster was

going on a vacation for a few days. In reality Webster

was only moved to another hotel along with his girl friend.

This move

was to delay the U.S. a few days in determining.

that Webster had defected.

The Russians decided that webster should be located

in Leningrad. Webster was given a position in a plastic

research institution and he also worked part time in a

factory. His pay was above normal for other workers.

NW 55923

DocId: 32246422 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Interview:

R.E.

Webster

3

he was also provided an apartment for Vera and himself.

(Most Russians have to wait several years to get a

desirable apartment.)

They also provided Vera with a good

position in Lenngrade. They also provided Webster

with a one month vacation at a resort on the Black Sea.

At no time did anyone question Webster relative

to intelligence matters.

On one occassion Webster was

asked by a government official why he did not marry Vera.

Webster explained that could not as he was already married.

The subject was never again discussed. At no time was he

ever pressured about anything. He was not subjected to

Communist doctrine or asked about his political views.

Webster was not contacted by the KGB.

To his

knowledge no officials ever identified themselves as

KGB.

There was no reason to be contacted by the KGB.

The government officials that aided Webster in his

defection had his entire story. He possessed no knowledge

of value to K.G.B. His expertise was in the field of

plastic utilization.

Webster requested and received Russian citizenship.

He was not knowledgeable of other defectors.

He did not

at that time know the name Oswald.

NW 55923 DocId: 32246422 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Interview:

R.E. Webster

4

Webster decided to return to the U.s. after

learning that his mother had a nervous breakdown

because of his defection.

He

received this information

via a letter from his father in May 1960. He decided

that his actions were ruining too many people's lives.

He discussed

the issue with vera who did not try to pressure

him to stay even

though they had a baby daughter. Webster

stated that Vera understood. Webster made application with

the foreign minister to leave Russia. The application was

denied and he was notified he would have to wait one year

to resubmit his exit visa. He waited one year and again

submitted his request to leave and stated his reasons

for the request. At no time did he misrepresent, to the

Russians, the motives

for his actions.

During the year he waited to re-apply, his father

and former employer Mr. Rand assisted Webster on his

effort to return thru the State Department. Webster

contacted the American Embassy during a trip to Moscow

for the purpose of

watching a parade in Moscow Square.

He talked to Consul. Snyder. Arrangements were made

with the State Department for Webster to return to the

U.S. (if he was

allowed to leave Russia) as a Russian

Allien. The Russian

govermnemt approved Webster's second

NW 55923 DocId:32246422 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Interview:

R.E. Webster

5

request and he departed Russia in May of 1962. He flew

from Moscow to Paris

to New York. At New York, a U.S.

Marshall served

a subpoena on Webster for an appearance

before the Senate at some future date. At a later date

(he could not remember the date) webster did appear before

the Senate in a closed session and answered questions

relative to his defection and his desire to regain u.s.

Citizenship. Webster obtained U.S. Citizenship in 1965.

A short time after his return he was first questioned

at his home in Zelienable, Pa., by agents of the FBI.

He was also debriefed two times by the CIA. The last

debriefing by the CIA was in a Washington Hotel and lasted

approximately a week. CIA's main interest was in Russian

personnel. They had photographs of Russians whom they

wished to know if he

talked with. Webster signed a

CIA secrecy oath not to reveal substance of CIA debriefing.

Webster agreed to assist CIA in the future if he was ever

contacted by the KGB. He was never, to his knowledge,

contacted.

Digressing to Webster's contact with the U.s.

Embassy in Moscow, Webster stated it was quite a delay

for the U.S. Consul. in Moscow (Snyder) to obtain State

Department approval for him to return to the U.s. as a

Russian Alien.

NA 55923

Doold: 32246422. BageT

---

