# docid-32585260

## Page 1

OPTIONAL

5010-106

HAT 04

* SEA GEN.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Tolson

DeLoach t

TO

Mr. DeLoach

Jean. I. I. Bax649

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA

ANTI-RACKETEERING

DATE: June 9, 1966

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

Aristo

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

TeleRoom

48lmes.

Gandy -

macCentep.

In connection with the Giancana situation,

an

informant of the Chicago Office,

overheard a

telephone conversation on May 31, last,

CO 691 the day Giancan's/

was released, in the office of Joseph

Bulger, a prominent

41

Chicago attorney, who is closely allied with

the top

echelon of the Chicago hoodlum

The

conversation

was with an unknown person and the informant heard only

Hornatem

edand

no doubt Giancana would

be freed that day.

Bulger observed that VIry! and

been; very efficient in putting across

in Vinson's mind

the idea that Hanrahan's tactics were

unconstitutional

lon

HEREL.

discriminatory and that Hanrahan was ruthless with his

collaborator and uncooperative with dovern to reali

Bulger said that i

Hanrahan had choked himserI

withshis own hands and that

"Irv"

indicated everyone

ANTION.

_was provoked because of Hanrahan's defiant attitude and S

that Hanrahan had gone as far as to threaten the

Attorney General's office.

Hanrahan told the Attorney

General he was frustrated by failure and lack of

cooperation and

that he would not be made to look like

r

a heel in Chicago.

"Iry" indicated that late on the

CONTAINED

day .of

Mays.31, Hanrahar had made a last attempt?

right"

but "that Fred(Vinson) would not budge.

to 80111860

SItO

identified) succeeded in

anybody,

including the FBI and his two assistants and

causing Hanrahan not to BusIN 24 1966

"he" deserved a good reward for bringing this

aboulti Bulge adan commented that defired to issue

was under

pressure and was confused John D'Arco and others, but

grand jury subpoenas

had not succeeded r for

• Сайта

Mr. DeLoach

V1 - Mr. McAndrews

• 1 - Mr. Leggett

CONTINUED - OVER

JGL

пік y

6

"(5)

DocId: 32585260

Page 1

---

