282014 * JFK Full Results

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

|Viewing/Ordering Inform

Back.to Brief Results-| | Back to Search | f Exit JFK |

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10035-10227
RECORDS SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-82555-3238

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : SAC, TP
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE : [No Title]
DATE : 04/17/1964
PAGES : 1

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
SUBJECTS : JFK, SUSPECT, SEARCHING, LHO, BACKGROUND
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
“ RESTRICTIONS : 4
CURRENT STATUS RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/19/1996
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

[ Back to Brief Results | [Back to. Search [Exit JFK:

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov.

doch SR4BE998 Baga ee Osten


FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56) a > y :

SO PBI

ONPBATIAL "= 27704
; oaet (Type in plain Text or code)
Vie ___- AIRTEL ce. AIRMATL

™ Span reane “(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Transmit the following in

ifs! SSESs PEASE SESS eeereesEeEs

/h : cP:
[| 70: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-82555) popRt ANE A
: aot es AND FIELD ©
FROM: SAC, TAMPA (105 2142) ®) IDySE RL
LEE HARVEY OSWALD ; SLIP(S) 9
Is -R- CUBA Be ; paTs_S 1/0

“Re Bureau airtel to Albany 4/15/64, :

:, All security informaats ‘and PSIs in ‘Nov. "1963 weré
contacted pursuant to Butel to all offices 11/22/63 captioned -
"ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F, KENNEDY". These contacts
were reported.in report of.SA WILLIAM C, HAY 12/4/63: captioned.
"LEE HARVEY OSWALD, ee

TP 73-S and following Pats, approved since Nov.
; 1963, were contacted 4/16 and 17/64, pursuant to retel:

PSI DIONEL COTANDO CARRILLO, .
PSI LUIS JOSE COWAN, and a
PSI JOSE EMILIANO MARRERO.

: PSI DIMAS. ARMANDO PEREZ TORRON has been out of
town and no opportunity has been: had to indoctrinate him

since Bureau authority. received, As soon as it is possible :
to do. so,. he will be: contacted re OSWALD and Bureau will be LE

‘ advised. -
R

Lt 0m) = a z fe

2-T . ram eee
aan fy a OM)

: @ :
- : oS: PSSS 28
gp Soa we
& ; BS Cateeohy
fed of Dect Wh
79.APRO2: 7 ye \ ele
Special A} in Charge eonitfarniat

DocId: 32129396 Page 2
