# docid-32288058

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10198-10334

RÉCORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-737

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, TP

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/05/1963

2

LST, ASSOC, INTV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: -10/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32288058

35

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev.

12-13-56)

C

FBI

Date: 7/5/63

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via _AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

(Priority. or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781) and SAC, MIAMI (92-88)

FROM:

SAC, TAMPA (92-1) (P)

SANTO

TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

AR

(00: TP)

WEEKLY AIRTEL SUMMARY

ReNYairtel to Baltimore, case entitled "JOSEPH STASSI,

aka - FUGITIVE, AR. (00: NY) " dated 6/26/63 .

Reairtel identified subject as former partner with

JOSEPH STASSI in Sans Souci Casino, Havana, Cuba and that subject

also met STASSI at the Stage Delicatessen, New York City, in 11/62.

Reference reported Bureau instructions set out that associates of

subject were to be interviewed unless information contained in

covering field office files precludes contact, and unless comnon

sense dictates, leads are to be cevered in 48 hours.

Newark office advised Bureau and Tampa, 6/19/63, that on

6/15/63, NK 2251-C* advised ANGELO DE CARIO, Newark top hoodlum,

gave ANTHONY "PUSSY" RUSSO $200.00. The money was a wedding present

for SANTO's daughter in Florida.

Inquiry GLORIA HACKWORTH, 4513 Eden Roc Road, Tampa, who

was reported on an airline flight from Miami to Tampa with FRANK

RAGANO, who was on the same flight, determines sheis a secretary

firm attorneys SASSER and DANAHY and was previously employed

f0i many years with other Tampa law firms. Check of residence tele-

phone toll calls failed to develop anything of significance.

- Bureau

2

- Miami (92-88)

REG- 20

1 - New York (92-1539) (Info)

92-2181=731

2 - ampa (1 - 92-310)

SJL/ mw

3 JUL 8 1963

(8)

Approved:

Sent

_M Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32288058 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

TP 105-C* at St. Petersburg Beach, Ila., indicates

subject's daughter and son-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. AUGUST PANIELLO,

and child, apparently vacationing

3610 El Centro, St. Peters-

burg Beach, Fla. and there, are visited by friends.

Surveil-

lance and confidential

source do not place subject there.

On 7/3/63, subject's 2505 Briston residence ob-

served to be closed

and no cars there.

Same date, HERB

GOLDBURG, next-door neighbor,

advised subject nor

family

have been seen at 2505 Bristol.

On 7/3/63, CHARLES C. CORCES, an attorney,

(protect), advised he understood from sources that the

TRAFFICANTE Family was broke; that the parties held at the

Columbia Restaurant, concerning the wedding of SARAH ANN

TRAFFICANTE had not been paid for and CESAR GONZSMART was

worried. Source related neighbors in vicinity Dream Bar,

Nebraska Ave., which property and bar operated by TRAFFICANTE

Family, got

up petition to have bar pave a parking area

about the property and an attorney understood (this attorney

was representing such group) that the TRAFFICANTEs could not

get anyone to pave the area. as they wanted cash and there

Was

none available.

Subject has not been seen nor reported in Tampa

and last known to be in company of JIMMY DUCA, midnight

6/27/63 in Miami.

LEADS:

MIAMI DIVISION

AT MIAMI, FLA.

When opportune time presents itself to the Bureau's

advantage, subject should be interviewed concerning JOSEPH

STASSI and Harboring Statute explained.

Miami Office airtel of 6/29/63 in captioned matter,

reported subject observed 11:46 p.m., 6/26/63 until 12:08 a.m.,

6/27/63 at Miami International Airport with LOUIS P. BRADY

and he drove off in a 1959 White Chrysler, 1963 Florida

license 3W-6338, noting such vehicle usually always in Tampa -

and used by subject's daughter.

This airtel also reported

subject seen at midnight 6/27/63. Miami requested to clarily

above.

- 2-

DE- 105%

DocId: 32288058 Page 3

---

