# docid-32143768

## Page 1

8/25/2014

National Archives and Records Administration

JFK Full Results

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10072-10305

RECORDS SERIES

: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-24016-1670

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : LEG, OT

TO : DIRECTOR,

FBI

TITLE

: [No Title]

DATE

: 06/25/1964

PAGES : 5

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : JR, POST ASSA ACT, ASSOC

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/18/1995

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF RCMP

COMMENTS : INC LTR, LHM

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

* Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration

1/2

---

## Page 2

3-32 (Rev. 4-29-57)

RemP

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

7.4.95 cat.

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL. S CI

To:

Director, FBI

COND

TEN PALE:

(Bufile :

6-25-64

44-24016

a 2e0) Alarie, one

Attention

163-364

Title

Character

CIVIL RIGHTS

JACK L. RUBY, Aka.;

LEE HARVEY OSWALD,

Aka. (deceased)Reference

VICTIM

LHM dated 6-3-64, at Dallas,

Texas. *

115668 SLD/GCL

27/25/95

zor Reme lettes

Enclosed are the following communications received from the RCMP:

Original and

(45)

two copies of RCMP letter dated 6-24-64,

together with the

original and nine copies of a LHM incorporating information

Remarks:

contained therein.

The confidential source abroad mentioned inthe LHM is the

ROMP(dELL)

Crashed by Te

2-17-93102

back to Malles 1

L4AM to Por. Can

lett. 7/6/14

Classifio?

Dissemination

Barri

Dati

прочо

category

Mication

May be made as received

May be made as indicated by stamp on enclosure

May not be made without turther clearance with RCMP (SUI

Following offices would be interested in receiving copies of enclosures:

Dallas (44-1639)

1/21/07

inite

Forty

150

Status with this office:

4:4

Do not write in spuce below

24016-

16.70

REC 4

Pending

3 - Bureau (1 cc - Dallas)

52 LYL ST

l: Jhc

(4)

13- ENCLOSURE

COM

DocId: 32143768

Page 2

18 JULY 1954

TAT

---

## Page 3

UNIT AD STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please RefßremP

MEGEWED BY FE/JFK TASK FORG

WASHINGTON 25, D. G.

June 25, 1964

ON

7-4.95 cal

JACK D.

RUBY

D RELEASE IN FULL

LES MARVEX OSWALD -

VICTIM

RELEASE IN PART

D

TOt ay, Albeonidontial source abroad has adyssed that

Alberta,

Canada, telephone number 263-3700 1e listed

to Pembina Pipe Line Itd., third floor, Petro- Chemicas Busteing,

805 Eighth Avenue, S. W., Colgary:

the president of this firm,

Mr.

advised on fune

17, 1966,

that no one by the

name of henry Atchison is on their payroll but that for the last

three years one Henry William Acteson, approzimately thirty-nine

years of age and of English birth, has been employed as production

manager of Pembina Pipe Line Ltd.

Prior to immigrating to Canada,

acteson was employed by the British Petroleum Company in the

Middle last and wao a resident of Regina, Saskatehowan, Canada,

before being employed by Pembina Pipe Line Ltd, in Calgary, Alberta

A check of the records of the Alberta Government

telephones revealed that Henry William Acteson has resided at

4412 Coronation Brive since March 20, 1964.

Els current telephone

aumber 1s 243-7405.

Prior thereto, he resided at 1301 Prospect

Avenue, Calgary,

Alberta, telephone number CH 4:0451. A check of

Long distance toll Stips for the dune, 190s, billing period on

Acteson's present telephone revealed that nine long distance calis

vere made to other Canadian points.

No calls were placed to the

United States.

A check of long distance toll slips billed to

Pembina Pipe Line Ltd. for the same period reflecte numerous

calls to both Canadian and U. S. points; however; it was noted

that on April 6,

1964, A person named Ball placed a call fron

winnipeg, Manitoba, canada, telephone ln 1.59t, to Acteson a

863-8700, Pembina Pipe Line, Utd., An Calgary.

Long devance

toll slipe for the November,

1063,

poriod have been destroyed

by the telephone company. (a) MI

2-17-93.

1503/200H85

Beclassi

GORIES DESTROYED

JFK SPECIAl

@ 1 JAN - 2 1973

Tailed

¡FIED

RE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Siassifled hỹ.

Exempt from CDS

ategory

Indo

Date el Declassifie

112)

110

ETGTLC

DECRASSIFIED BY S

ON 85115D

CONTAI

19-10302

DocId: 32143768

Page 3

---

## Page 4

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

RcmP

Coary

REVIEWED BY EBVJFK TASK PORCE

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

June 25, 1064

ON

2-4-95 dol

SACE L.

RELEASE IN FULL

LEX HARVEY

VIC& 11

ET RELEASE IN PART:

confadential source abroad has advised that

Canada, telephone number 263-3700 is lioted

o vian not lise to tary on petro Cronical out asnes

505 Eighth Avenue, S. Ho

The president of this firm,

Connelly,

that no one by

во 2 1 20.

three yeurs one Menay Villiam Acteson, approximately thirty-nine

years 02 age and of

English birth, has been employed as procuction

manager of Pombina Pipe Line Ltd.

Prior to immigrating to Canada,

Acteson was enployed by the Britich Petroleun Company ta the

Middle East and was a resident of Begina, Dastatchevan, Canada,

before being enployed by Pembina Pipe Line Ltd in Calgary, Alberto

A chock of the records of the Alberte Goverment

telephones revealed that Monry Willian Acteson bas resided at

0412 Coronation Brive since March 30, 1304.

His current telephone

munber 1s 343-7405.

Prior thereto, ho resided at: 1301 Prospect

Avenue, Calgary, Merta, telephone number Ch 1-0651. A check of

long distance

toll slipa for the June, 1004, billing period on

Aeteeon's present telephone revenled that nine long distance calle

were nade to other Canadian points. No calle were placed to the

United States, A check of long distance toll clips billed to

Pombina Pipe Line Ltd. for the same period reflects numerous.

callo to both Canadien and V. S.

points) however; it was noted

that on April 6, 1904, & person noned Rall placed a call

fron

Winnipog,

Manitoba, Canads, tolephone ll 2-0973,

to. Acteson 'at

263-9700, Penbina Pipe line, utd., An Colgary. Long Castance

tol slips for the Novenber

1003, period have been

destroyed

by the telephone company.

C(4)

2-17-93

Classisad boy

9803 RONISR

Declassity on:

IN SpeCiAl

OTH

• CURTANEO

SLASSIFIED

ALRE SHOWE

WISE

(SER)

19-1030€

DocId: 32143768

Page 4

---

## Page 5

ALL CORRESPONDENCE TO

• PE ADDRESSED:

THE COMMISSIONER

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

OTTAWA 8, CANADA

TOUTE CORRESPONGANCE DOIT

ÊTRE ADRESSÉE COMME SUIT:

LE COMMISSAIRE

GENDARMERIE ROYALE

DU CANADA

OTTAWA 8, CANADA

HEADQUARTERS - DIRECTION GÉNÉRALE

YOUR NO.

VOTRE N°

163-364

OTTAWA 8, CANADA

June 24, 1964.

OUR NO.

63 HQ-1180-1-Q-112

NOTRE

109I

SUK

ANTIAL

Doct

MEUT

BUEIDEUTIAR

Mr. Moss Lee Innes,

ENTIRE

es

c/• United States Embassy,

CLASS

2-17-93

Ottawa m

Ontario.

Glass/lo

9803200/142

PEVIEWED BY EBUJFK TASK PORCE

Declasshy

Re:

5668.560

JFK

ON

7.4-95 das

LAC HErVeY OSWALD, aka;

SPECIA

AMA.

RELEASE IN FULL

VICTIM (Deceased)

RELEASE IN PART.

• pe.

Calgary telephone number 263-8700 is listed

TOO PENBINA PIPE LINE LID 3rd Floor, Petro-chemical

Building 805

Canade

95.

1353

OFES

on June 17, 1964, under a pretext and during the con-

versation with our investigator he advised that no one

the name ol Henry, chisolis on their payroll, but

DECL

ONC

for the last three years a person named Henry William,

Balti

CIESON, Approximately 39 years of age and of English

1925

birth, has been employed as Production Manager f

PEMBINA PIPE LINE LTD. ACTESON was a resident of Regina,

Saskatchewan before

taking up this employment in Calgary

and before immigrating to Canada he was employed with the

BRITISH PETROLEUM COMPANY in the Middle East..

The above

information was all

2.

Wanadaupplied by Mr. CONNELLY.

The records of the Alberta Government Telephones

were checked and indicate that Henry William ACIESON has

DESTROYED

COPIES

2 1973

JAN

this he resided at 1301 Prospect Avenue, Calgary, telephone

CH4-0451•

A check of long distance toll slips for the

June, 1964, billing period on ACTESON's present telephone

revealed that nine long distance calls were made to other

Canadian points.

No calls were placed to the u.s.A:

check of long distance toll slips billed to PEMBINA PIPE

April 6, 1964, a person named HALL placed a call from

Manitoba,

telephone WH2-9972 to ACTESON at

263-8700, PEMBINA PIPE LINE LID. In Calgary. This 18

mentioned because of the similarity between the names HALL

and

WALL.

This may be only a coincidence, but is mentioned

44-24016-1670

MATIN

000.2

DocId: 32143768

Page 5

---

## Page 6

CONFIDENTIAL

- 2.

& can dris

in the event it may be of assistance to your investigation.

Long distance

toll slips for the November, 1963, period

have been destroyed by the telephone company.

ACTESON will not be approached and the investi

gation is not being extended to Winnipeg, Manitoba, pending

receipt of an additional request for Investigation from

your Bureau.

Cite Marse

sup to,

Criminal Investigation Branch.

CONS ANTIAL

Rop Id: 32113768

Page 6

---

