# docid_32306892

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10291-10032

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 105-141949-4

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 09/21/1967

PAGES: 44

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT_TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

09/15/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

Consultation

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

REFERRED TO INS

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

on 6/11/63, Gilberto Rodriguez Fernandez (100-420590) made

available information in connection with the July 26 Movement for the

short time in the latter part of 1958 when he served as advisor to

this group in the Miami section.

He explained that he had no access

to the arms or supplies of the July 26 Movement and only saw one

cache of arms, consisting of M-i carbines and pistols.

This was in

the house of orlando Bosch in Miami, but the address was not recalled.

Bosch did business with two individuals in Hialeah, one, a policeman

and the other was a brother-in-law of the policeman, names not

recalled. However, Bosch gave them a boat, valued at $2500 on 1/1/59.

Interview set out in detail.

100-420590-41 p. 24,25

(37)

Orlando Bosch Avila's name appeared on a list dated 10/14/60

prepared by INs, which included

background data of Cubans claiming to

be political refugees who had entered or departed the US since

January 1, 1959 and were processed by INS since that date.

List enclosed-

• 109-584-2695 encl.p.7

(16,44>

The following references appear in the main file of Victor

Manuel Paneque Y Batista, a former major in the Cuban National

Revolutionary Police.

These references revealed that Paneque was a

close associate of Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila from 1959 - January, 1961.

Information included the activities and contacts between the two men

in Cuba and in Miami, Florida area.

October, 1960 and interviews With Bosch in December, 1960 and

January, 1961 regarding the MIRR and their association also set out.

Bosch claimed to have known Paneque for several years and had complete

set idence in him. Description and background Information of both men

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

105-92195-3 p.2,3

-5 p.1,3-5,8-10, 17-19

-7 p. 1-7,12,13, 17-26

1387

(13,38)

-4-

SECRET

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM-639-S on 1/11/61 stated that Frank Fiorini was at that

time co-operating and associating with Victor Paneque and Orlando

Bosch, leaders of the MIRR, which had established a training camp in

Florida and anticipated a military expedition against the Cubar

Government in the near future. @(U)

This serial revealed that Frank Fiorini was an assistant to

Pedro Luis. Diaz Lanz, President of the Cuban Constitutional Crusade,

an anti-Castro organization. j

105-89923-126 p.3

(38)

[SI 109-12-210-2659 p. 6/-*/ U

437 Enter Man ta

Lorenz,

interview

1/10/61)

By letter dated 1/23/61, the Philadelphia Office made

available two photostats of a three-page document entitled "Cuban

Counter-Revolutionary Organizations,

received from INS. This

document contained the names of anti-Castro organizations.

these organizations was the MIRR, headed by Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila,

former chief of the 26th of July Movement in Las Villas Province, Cuba(C)

[Document enclosed 74A (u)

• 109-584-2693 encI.p.3

(15,447

On 1/26/61, Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila, M.D., who appeared at

several unity meetings.of Cuban exiles with Luis Ernesto Conte Aguero

(105-86025) in the Miami, Florida area, advised that Conte Aguero had

recently gone to NYC and Washington, DC to hold political meetings.

The meetings were regarded to be without significance by Bosch, who

stated that his organization (MIRR) would not be represented.

possessed no specific details.

Bosch

105-86025-23 p.1

(13,377

SI 105-86025-31 encl.p.l

(13,377

-5-

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

"The New York Daily News" dated 1/31/61 contained an article

entitled "Countdown For Castro,"

which was one of a series that told

the story of anti-Castro activities in Miami, Florida.

This article

set out background

_data and an interview with Orlando Bosch concerning

his activities and affiliation with the MIRR.

109-584-A "NY Daily News"

(46)

1/31/61

Information was reported by MM-639-S and MM-726-S regarding

the activities and contacts of Orlando Bosch and Frank Anthony Sturgis

(2-1499) during January and February, 1961 in connection with an

attempted invasion of Cuba by anti-Castro organizations (u)

2-1499-70 p. 19,32,33,48-50

(20)

This report set out in detail information concerning anti-

Castro organizations.

In regard to the MIRR under the leadership of

Orlando Bosch, it stated that the MIRR claimed about 600 members in

Cuba and ten or twelve individuals In Miami, Florida. The purpose of

the MIRR was to try to overthrow the Castro

government in Cuba, and

as of February, 1961 had not joined any other anti-Castro groups.

It

was rumored that Victor Paneque was an agent of the Castro government,

but Bosch claimed that Paneque was being vietimized by other Cuban

exiles who were jealous of his reputation.

The MIRR was negotiating

with an anti-castro group led by Frank Fiorini formerly a captain in

the Cuban Revolutionary Army

and planned to establish a training

camp. (Miami Report dated 2/6/61)

109-584-2713 p.12,13

(44>

Mr. Richard E. Harkins, Director of Public Relations, The

International Supreme Council, Order of De Maloy, Kansas City, Missouri,

by letter dated 5/4/61, enclosed a piece of literature.

This was a

chain letter which requested the recipient to send $100 to the first

five names listed in the letter.

The recipient should remove the top

name and add his own to the letter.

Among the five names appearing in

this letter was that of Orlando Bosch, MIRR Offices, 4138 w. 16 Terrace,

Miami, Florida.

The money raised from this letter was to be used to

fight communism in Cuba and help the exiles in Miami.

(Letter enclosed)

62-106980-1 encl.p.2

(227

SI 62-106980-3 p.1

.. (23)

-6-

SECRET

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

The 9/26/61 1ssue of "Diario Las Americas," a Spanish

Language newspaper published in Miami, Florida, containea a photo-

graph accompanied by an article which

in part, that

Commander Evelio Duque Mujar, Chief of the CACA (105-102448),

received a cordial reception

from Cuban exiles during a visit to

Chicago last week.

The photograph revealed

General Coordinator of the CACA, was among those who appeared at the

reception.

Dr. Orlando Bosch, 65 s.w. 20th Road, Miami (protect

identity) reported in detail on 9/27/61 information pertaining to

the activities and contacts of Evello Duque and members of the CACA

during their visit

•to Chicago in September, 1961.

MM-726-S on 9/30/61 advised that Bosch was working with

Evelio Duque.

On this date Bosch stated he was interested ir

obtaining radio transmitters and receivers

ton between cuba and his group in the us. i used sor communica

Add. info.

105-102448-7 p.1,1A, 3-5,7-9

(39)

MM-726-S on 10/19/61, advised that he had conversed with

Orlando Bosch and Bosch had told him that Agustin Capo (105-98261)

was at that time engaged in private business and could be reached in

Chicago, Ill, at either Edgewater 4-2110 or Edgewater 4-0330•(U)

105-98261-5 encl.p.6

(39)

By letter dated 11/9/61, the AAG advised that the Department

of Justice was soliciting the views of CIA with respect to the CACA

(105-102448) and certain individuals identified as representatives of

the group. a U

CIA

dy letter dated 10/25/61 furrished information on the

representatives of this group, namely,

Dr. Orlando

Bosch and Major Evelio Duque.

Interest to their agency but that they had no interest at that time in

Bosch or Cardosa$ (4)

Add. Info.

105-102448-9 p.1

(39)

-8-

SECRET

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECREA

According to a Bureau memo, on 11/28/61, the Department

of Justice announced the creation of

a special. committee of anti-

Castro leaders to help screen security risks among Cuban refugees.

Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila was among the members of this committee.

A summary of information appearing in Bureau files concerning Bosch

was set out.

Attached to this memo is an INS report which contains

background concerning the formation of this committee.

Bosch

attended meetings of above special committee in the office of INS

District Director, Miami, on 11/8,11/9,11/15 and 11/16/61.

(INS report enclosed)

105-93163-420 encl.p.2

(13.38)

On 11/29/61, Ray Dubois, (protect identity), CIA, Miami,

regarding the activities of Dr. Orlando Bosch,

who reportedly had come into a sum of money and had become active

and interested in setting up a radio network between the US and

certain unknown points in cuba. (2 U)

Dubois advised that CIA was aware of certain activities of

Bosch and that Bosch was at that time engaged in training a group of

radio operators who would be placed in the underground In Cuba dU)

109-584-3045 p. 2

(44)

A review of INS file concerning Claudio Vito Alberto Torres

y de la Vega (105-104085) revealed that Orlando Bosch Avila was

among those who sent a letter (date not given) to INS which urged

the release of Torres from the INS detention facility at Miami, Florida.

Torres who was to be deported had been transferred to Miami, Fla. from

El Paso, Texas on 11/2/61.

105-104085-7 p.7

(14,40)

-9-

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

William Johnson, airplane pilot and automobile salesman,

1271 N.W. 180th Terrace, Miami, Florida,

advised that he had been

contacted by Frank Anthony Sturgis on 6/1/04, regarding a set of

questions Sturgis wanted Johnson to show to Dr. Orlando Bosch, in

connection with an investigation by the Department of Defense

concerning

an alleged air raid over Cuba on 5/25/64.

Johnson was

of the opinion that Sturgis might ingratiate himself in some way

with Bosch.

Johnson stated that he showed the questions to Bosch, and

Bosch indicated he thought the whole thing was a fraud. According

to Johnson, Bosch had no faith or trust in Sturgis.

This serial indicated that Sturgis was head of the

organization known as the International Anti-Communist Brigade, and

also indicated that above alleged flight had been determined to be

a hoax.

109-584-3960 p.9

(45%

PSI Arturo Gonzalez Gonzalez (protect identity) on 7/16/64

made available information pertaining to the activities of members of

"Secret Organization of Continental Action" (OSAC) (105-131113).

Gonzalez stated that Nelson Rodriguez may have contacted Marcelino

Garcia, an associate of Dr. Orlando Bosch of MIRR, concerning

torpedos which MIRR had built in the past.

This serial revealed that Nelson Rodriguez was identical

to Nelson Iglesias Catala, a Cuban exile associated with the OSAC.

105-131113-6 p. H

(42)

On 9/9/64, Ramon Font Saumel, 1184 N.W. 37th St., Miami,

Florida advised

that he continued to be one of the military leaders

of "Comandos L" (105-117222), an anti-Castrg

conducted raids in the past against Cuba. &

(liganization which

Font advised that several months previously, "Comandos I"

signed a military pact with the MIRR.

This pact was promoted by

Pedro Muinas, Civilian Coordinator of "Comandos I," and Orlando Bosch.

The m Mutany eat a Comandos I agreed to go along with this l (4)

(continued)

-14-

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892

Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

(continued)

REFERENCE

97-4474-111 p.1-3

-116

p.1,2

-118

encl.p.1,2

-119 p.1

-122 encl.p.1-3

-124 encl.p.1

-126 p.2,3,4

-129 encl.p.l

-130 p.2,4

-132 encl.p.1-3,5,7-11

-143 p.1-3

-145 p.l

-147

enc1.p.1,3,6,10-12

-153 p.1

-158 encl.p.1-3

105-114543-149 p.2

105-126660-21 encl.p.1,2

109-584-3884-p.15

-3976 p.12,13

-4069 p.4-6,25

-4114 p.9,10

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(4.26*

5/26%

7,27.

-

5128%

(14,425

(420%

(16,451

169,454

16,450

16,458

Alberto Sune, PSI (protect identity), who was active in

Cuban exile activity in Miami, advised that on 11/29/64, Dr. Manuel

Urrutia Lles, the first Cuban

President under Fidel Castro, currently

in exile at NYC and head of the"Alianza Revoluncionaria Democratica"

(ARD) (105-134075), assisted by Jesus Dieguez Llamazares, a close

associate of Dr. Urrutia, visited Dr. Orlando Bosch in Miami, Florida.

Dr. Urrutia subsequently indicated that he did not desire to receive

the MIRR into the ARD.

MM-974-S advised that Dr. Urrutia had apparently declined

adm1881on to the ARD of the MIRR, headed by Bosch. (YU)

105-134875-5 p.4,5

(43)

Sti:

-17-

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892

Page 8

---

## Page 9

MM-776-S on 9/23/64 advised that Dr. Virgilio Sanchez Acejo,

334 S.W. 8th Ave

De La Democracia"

Miami, Florida, leader of the "Instituto Cubana

(Cuban Institute of Democracy), several associates,

and the organization "Armed Forces of Cuba In Exile," were interested

in overthrowing the dictatorship of President Duvalier of Haiti,

establishing a military base in Haiti for use by anti-Castro forces,

and setting up a Cuban Government in exile at Port-au-Prince.

Dr.

Sanchez, according to this informant, stated that after the

overthrow of the Duvalier government, Dr.

Minister of Health In thenew government (U)

Orlando Bosch would be the

97-4691-4 encl.p.2

(36%

MM-776-S on 12/23/64, advised that to his knowledge Orlando

Bosch and his group, the MIRR,

overton the doverinent of tale in teet week ly piano ton

97-4691-7 encl.p.4

(36}

Teodoro Enrique Casado Cuervo, a Cuban exile in Puerto Rico,

(protect identity), on 3/1/65 advised that Orlando Bosch of the MIRR

was recently in santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, conferring with

persons in an attempt to set up a base in the Dominican Republic.

According to source, Bosch was in Puerto Rico for a day or so trying to

105-114543-231 encl.p.1,2

(41)

Enrique Chau Espinosa (105-144627) on 10/14/65 made available

information pertaining to his knowledge of Chinese Communist activities

‹ in Miami, Florida.

In this connection Chau stated that two Chinese

Cubans who owned and operated the Pekin Restaurant were communists.

His reason for stating this was that at least one Cuban exile group

had asked for a contribution of funds to wage war against Castro, and

had been refused.

With regard to the above incident, MM-365-S, who was

acquainted with Orlando Bosch and members of the MIRR, advised

on 3/11/65

that the above restaurant and home of the two Chinese Cubans had been

(continued)

-18-

• 1:

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 9

---

## Page 10

(continued)

SECRET

searched, based on charges by the MIRR that those individuals were

communists and trafficked drugs.

The reason for the denouncement

was that these individuals refused to contribute to Bosch and his MIRR.

105-144627-2 p.7

(43)

This reference sets out a list of Cuban exiles involved in

plans for a coup in Guatemala.

Among those names listed was that of

orlando Bosch Avala, cha Late March 2905) (u)

2-1901-11 p. 2

(1,21Y

PSI (protect identity) on

4/13/65 advised that Everett Dennis Jackson (105-126660) during 1964

was associated with members of the MIRR, which organization was

interested in Jackson's plans to parachute into Cuba to take photo-

graphs.

According to this informant, Jackson also had made plans

sometime in April,

1965, to drop a bomb on Cuba.

This informant

stated that the MIRk as an organization had nothing to do with this

planned flight and that Orlando Bosch had severed relations with

Jackson. Bosch considered him an unreliable adventurer.

105-126660-22 encl.p.2,3

( 42)

on 4/1/65 the State Department made available Biographic

Data Reports on Cuban Exiles.

One of these reports concerned Orlando

Bosch Avila which set

out description, background and personal data

concerning Bosch. (*/u)

109-584-4226 encl.p.12

(17,45%

OTHER 4

-19-

SECRET

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 10

---

## Page 11

CIA advised that as of late May, 1965, the "Libertarios"

(105-143898) was interested in aligning itself with the MIRR, which

was headed by orlando Bosch Av11a. dU)

105-143898-4 encl.p.l

(15,43%

In connection with the above, on September 15 and November 30,

1965, MM-635->' "The Libertarios,"

who was in contact with Bosch, advised that he had

never heard of

and possessed no knowledge that it

had any connection with the Mink ou

On September 23 and November 24, 1965, Orlando Rego (protect

identity), accountant for the MIRR, advised that he had never heard

of the

"Libertarios," and knew of no relationship between that

organization and the MIRR. He stated that on various occasions Bosch

had negotiations with other organizations, but never aligned himself

with any of them because Bosch was too egotistical to surrender any of

the publicity he received as chief of the MIRR.

105-143898-6 p.1

(430%

On 4/19/65, Everett Dennis Jackson (105-126660) advised that

he intended to maintain contact with Orlando Bosch to determine if any

future attacks were being planned against Cuba. Jackson stated he

would offer his services to Bosch as a pilot.

On 4/27/65 Jackson reported that he had made arrangements to

meet Bosch and other MIRR members at the MIRR office in Miami, Florida.

It was determined that Jackson was the only one who showed

up at the MIRR office on 4/27/65 (Fisur).

PSI Frank Rodriguez advised on 5/7/65 that Jackson was in

contact with Ramon Baz, 900 block of S.w. 31st Ave., Miami (not further

identified), relative to a bombing mission to Cuba but Bosch was not .

Interested. According to the informant Bosch did not trust Jackson.

Customs Agent, Al Yarborough stated on 5/7/65 that he had

been in contact with Jackson with the purpose of developing evidence

of violation of the Neutrality Law on the part of Bosch and members

of the MIRR.

105-126660-24 p. 1,2,3

(427

-20-

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892

Page 11

---

## Page 12

..?"

Sergeant

Joseph Fernandez, Criminal Intelligence Section,

Dade County Sheriff's Office, Dade County, Florida, advised that

Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila would attend and allegedly

attempt to create

disorder at the

"Students For a Democratic Society" (100-439048)

sponsored "Teach-in" at the University of Miami, Coral Gables, Florida,

during the evening of 5/11/65.

MM-635-S advised on 5/10/65, that Bosch was head of the MIRR.

According to this source, Bosch had recently acquired explosives and

other ingredients that are used to fabricate bombs. Bosch acquired

this material for attacks on Cuba. (2 (U)

Bosch was contacted by officers of the Coral Gables Police

Department at which time Bosch stated that he planned to attend the

"Teach-in" on 5/11/65; however, while there the only manner in which

he would express his protest would be by carrying a placard. (Assistant

Chief of Police, Del Edwards)

Chief Edwards on 5/12/65 advised that the "Teach-in" had

proceeded in a peaceful manner and no incidents had occurred.

100-439048-199

(12,377

ct

102339048-29-9 enc2.p. 1

The following references pertain to the activities, contacts

and close associates of Orlando Bosch Avila from 1/17/65 through

5/12/65 in connection with his position as leader of the MIRR in

Miami, Florida.

thor de in thee

Included in these references is information concerning

reported air raids on Cuba; Bosch's contacts with pilots to fly bombing

missions; Bosch's contacts with individuals skilled in small boat

operations, requesting them to cooperate with the MIRR in a maritime

project in the Bahamas; and Bosch's activities in connection with a

fund raising for the MIRR.

Interviews with various individuals regarding

Bosch and the operations of the MIRR also included in these references.

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

2-1900-7 p. 3*

(21%

97-4474-167 p.1-4

(6,290

-168 p.1

-174 p. 1,2

16,29.7

(continued)

-21-

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SPARET

(continued)

on 9/7/65 it was reported that the above meeting wa's not

considered to be successful, that the attendance was very poor. (PSI

Conrado

Marrero, protect Identity; TP-S9-s and IP-274-S) C (V)

105-112098-639 p.1

(40%

On 9/17/65 MM-635-S advised that Herminio Diaz, 732 N.W.,

3rd St., was acquainted with Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila, head of the

MIRR, and that one of Diaz's friends had been observed by this

1o7 the mina-

informant in the office of the MIRR in Miami, Florida on at least one

occasion. MM-635-S further advised that the MIRR had been making

plans for a raid against Cuba, and allegedly possessed some arms.

This informant was unable to determine if the MIRR had a joint interest

with Diaz in any kind of boat ( U)

This serial indicated that Diaz was a Cuban, currently living

at 732 N.W.,

3rd St., Miami, who had an interest in a boat, which he

was suspected of planning to, use in some sort of clandestine revolu-

tionary operation against Cuba.

92-6692-44 encl.p.3,4

(2,23)

The following references pertain to the activities and

contacts of Orlando Bosch Avila from July, 1965, through October, 1965,

in connection with his position as leader of the MIRR, in Miami, and

Tampa, Florida.

Tnis information includes in detail the bombing of

the Spanish vessel "Satrustegui" on 10/9/65 in San Juan, Puerto Rico;

plans of sabotage on vessels trading with Cuba; acquiring of weapons

to be used in air and sea attacks on Cuba. Interviews with Bosch and

others in connection with their activities in the MIRR, as well as

MIRR by laws and financial data set out.

Also included is information

developed concerning the dissension among MIRR members who questioned

Bosch's leadership and who wanted him replaced, and contacts and

activities of Bosch with the anti-Castro organization RECE.

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

2-1622-292 encl.p.2

(207

(continued)

-23-

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892

Page 13

---

## Page 14

MM-974-S on 10/30/65, advised that he had learned from a close

associate (name not given) of Orlando Bosch, that Bosch had been in

contact with leaders of the SNFE, (105-112098) which included Aurelio

Nazario sargen, Armando Fleites,

and Dr. Diego Medina.

Bosch and the

SNFE leaders were in complete disagreement with the policy of the US

toward Cuba at that time.

105-112098-656 encl.p.3

(410)

The following references pertain to the activities of Orlando.

Information on 11/9/65 revealed that the ship was not on the schedules

for Puerto Rico but as of 11/9/65 had cleared New York for a Venezuelar

port. ( (U

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

45-10533-4 encl.p.1

-7 p.1

-12 p.2

97-4474-254 encl.p.l

-257 p.1,2

-258 encl.p.1,2

(22)

(22

(32)

19,33%

On 10/16/65 Orlando Bosch Avila stated that MIRR members

would attend a conference of Foreign Ministers in Rio De Janeiro, Brazil

on 11/47/65 (917/65 Bogen stated he was trying to arrange traved to

the above conference.

(CIA) « U)

109-584-4313 p.3,4

(17,467

-25-

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 14

---

## Page 15

Г

SECRET

Following the press conference which RECE (105-126039) held

on 11/14/65 to announce

the attack on shore installations in Havana

City, Juan Fernandez De Castro Sanchez, believed to be residing at

1220 N.E.

81 St., Miami,. (not further

identified), told one of the

individuals at the press

conference that he was interested in obtaining

the weapon (not further identified) which he owned and which had been

used during the 11/14/65 raid:

De Castro stated he had originally

lent

the weapon to Orlando Bosch Avila, so that MIRR could use it for

some

action they

in turn lent the weapon to

RECE.

(CIA)

105-126939-63 р.2

(14.427

SI 105-126039-69 p.2,3

(15,42)

On 11/30/65, Antonio Cuesta Del Valle, 2155 S.W. 5th St.,

Miami, Florida, advised that during a recent meeting held at RECE

(105-126039) headquarters,

Miami, (date not given), a public declaration

was issued concerning RECE's attitude toward Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila.

This declaration was not in favor of Bosch.

Jorge Mas, member of the Executive Committee of RECE, stated

that the MIRR and RECE were not cooperating and did not have any

agreements. Mas indicated that RECE realized that Bosch was only

interested

in fund collections and realization of his own personal

ambitions. (Antonio Cuesta Del Valle)

to the 11/14/65 raid on Cuba, for the purpose of borrowing some military

equipment.

Bosch wanted to participate in the above raid, but Commandos

I refused his cooperation and therefore did not receive any arms or

ammunation from the MIR: (f) (4)

105-126039-70 encl.p.2,3

(15/427

On 12/18/65 Orlando Bosch Avila stated that the MIRR planned

to attack a ship in Cuban Trade.

However, to assure that the plan was

kept secret,

even those who would participate in the attack would not

be Informed of the details until the attack was to take place. (CIA) (C

105-117222-228 p.2

(14,41)

-26-

SECRET

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 15

---

## Page 16

SECRET

This reference sets out information pertaining to the

activities. of the MIRR, led by Orlando Bosch Avila,

in connection with

public demonstrations held in January, 1966, protesting the treatment

of Jose Rodriguez Perez, who was arrested and charged with the bombing

of the Spanish ship "Satrustegui" in Puerto Rico, on 10/9/65. Included

was a plan of the MIRR to infiltrate men into the north coast of

Las Villas Province, Cuba during January, 1966. - This plan, according

to Bosch, was very important action against Cuba. It was not indicated

whether inis operation took place. CRU

Add. info.

109-584-4359 p.1,4,5

175,469

510233474-269 cLAnG

MM-974-S' on 1/13/66 advised that Jorge Mas of RECE (105-126039),

Miami, had been invited by Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila to participate in

discussions for the purpose of forming a unity of Cuban exile groups.

Bosch explained that by forming a single organization It would make 1t

more difficult for the US government to pinpoint exile action against

FIdel Castro: CRU)

This serial revealed that Jorge Mas was one of the principal

leaders of RECE.

105-126039-78 encl.p.1,2

(15,42)

On 1/27/66, Sandalio Herminio Diaz Garcia (105-143565) was

interviewed concerning information developed that Diaz and other Cuban

emigres from Miami were going to Cuba to attempt to assassinate Fidel

Castro. Diaz advised that the MIRR, under the leadership of Dr. Orlando

Bosch:

Avila, was not cooperating or

participating in any manner in his,

"crazy man" who was engaged in

a war with the US government, and who had the complex of another

Fidel Castro.

Diaz recalled

negotiations with Bosch but that the real purpose of these negotiations

was to obtain some equipment from him. He described Bosch as being a

Cuban racketeer, who was

• collecting money. from his fellow Cuban exiles

under false pretenses.

105÷143565-4 p.6,7

(15,43%

-28-

SECRET,

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 16

---

## Page 17

On 1/12/66 it was reported that Rolando Masferrer (2-1622)

had been in contact with the MIRR in order-to influence this organiza-

tion to carry out sabotage activity against Haiti. (CIA/*U)

On 2/7/66 Roland Masferrer during an interview furnished

information concerning details of the planned invasion of Haiti. He

stated, In part, that Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila of MIRR was among the

prominent Cuban exiles involved in this invasion.

2-1622-318 encl.p.1,6

(Y,20)

SI 2-1622-301 p. 2

(1,20%

I 105-95677-618 p.'

(13338* (Rev. Diego Madriga

Alvarez)

(Roman Catholic Priest and

_Cuban exile)

S1 105-95677-622

(14,39% (Rev. Diego Madriga

Alvarez) (Roman

Catholic Priest and

Cuban exile)

On 1/18/66 TP 225-S advised that Enrique Someillan, local

delegate of MIRR, was selling bonds, astensibly for the purpose of

raising money to help pay for the attorney's fees for the defense of

Orlando Bosch, who was under indictment from charges made by US Customs,

following his arrest for possession of explosives.

This informant

made available one of the bonds, which was selling for $1.00. This

bond did not mention or contain

the name of Bosch. (lU)

TP 52-s advised on 2/18/66 that the bonds sold by Enrique

Someillan and other members of the MIRR were not specifically

designated as a fund for Bosch's attorneys fees. (R) (U)

97-4474-273

(332

-29-

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECRET

MM-635-S and MM-639-S, who were well acquainted with

Orlando Bosch Avila, on 4/11/66 advised they had never received any

evidence that the MIRR had ever created or had anything to do with

an organization known as the "Center of Information and Documentation"

or that the MIRR had ever been responsible for placing an advertisement

in a Caracas, Venezuela newspaper for any purpose whatsoever.

These informants further advised they had never heard

Leland Perks Johnston (97-5069) and had never heard Bosch mention such

a person. f(ul)

It was noted that the advertisement mentioned above stated

that the Communists were seeking to force the selection of Colonel

Caamano on the Revolutionary. Party ticket in the Dominican Republic.

97-5069-27 encl.p.:

(12,367

This reference sets out the activities of Dr. Orlando Bosch

Avila from June, 1965 through June 14, 1966, in connection with his

duties as head of the MIRR.

Included

in this reference is information

made available by MM-635-S and Carlos Zarraga Martinez - Key Source

(protect identity) relative to Bosch's reputation among the Cuban Exiles

in mans, Forida. «(u)

109-584-4409 p.8-10

(17,46%

MM 635-S advised on 10/17/66 that Felipe Rivero Diaz, head

of the Asociacion Nacionalisto (97-4194), an anti-Castro organization

in Miami, stated he was interested in bombing an embassy or ship.

Rivero indicated he had recently traded some M-l time delay devices

(detonators) for pentolite explosives, with Orlando Bosch Avila, head

Of MIRR, another: anti-castro organization at Miami (4)

97-4194-99 p.1

(21,23)

The following references pertain to the contacts, associates

and activities of Orlando Bosch Avila from 12/23/65 through 11/13/66.

These references include details regarding air and sea attacks against

installations in Cuba as well as vessels trading with Cuba.

Also

included are the details pertaining to the arrest of Bosch in April, 1966

for transporting explosives. Information regarding the possibility of

(continued)

-30-

SECRETI

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 18

---

## Page 19

SECRET

(continued)

moving MIRR headquarters to New Orleans, La., and the activities of

Bosch's

wife also set out.

REFERENCE

97-4474-262

p.1,2

-265

-271

p.1

/

p.2/

-280

p.lv.

-284 p.1-4

encl.p.l

-295 p.1

-297 p.1,2

-298 p. 1-4

encl.p.1-3

-301 p.1-3

-303 encl.p.1,2

-304 p. 1,2

-305 encl.p.1,2

-306 p. 1

-307 encl.p.1,2

-308 encl.p.1,2

-312 encl.p.1-3

-320 encl.p.1-3

-323 p.1

-324 encl.p.1-4

-325 encl.p.l

105-92196-123 encl.p.8,9

105-126039-82 encl.p.3

/

105-147627-5 p.2

109-584-4473 p.1,5-7

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

1100330

HANGI

34.

353330

-2, 35.

35)*

(13,387

(15,42)

115,435

117,46%

MM-839-S advised that on 11/16/66, Orlando Masferrer Rojas,

former Cuban Senator, was in Miami, Florida, at which time he

contacted Orlando Bosch Avila for the purpose of trying to buy Aerial

shell casings. It was unknown if Bosch had any to sell.

105-95677-744 p.2

(14,397

-31-

Cist

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 19

---

## Page 20

This reference sets out information concerning the possible

affiliation of SNE (105-112098) with the MIRR, headed by Orlando Bosch,

from 11/11/66 until 1/17/67, and other anti-Castro organizations, in

Miami, Florida, in connection with military plans against Cuba.(uU)

105-112098-720 p.3,5-7

(412)

The following references appearing in the file

"Movimtento Insurrecional De Recuperacion RevolucionarIa" disclose

information pertaining to Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila, who was appointed

the Civilian Delegate of the

MIRR in the United States in August, 1960.

Bosch was also known as the Secretary General of the MIRR. In this

capacity he directed the activities of the MIRR, an anti-Castro group

formed by army officers and personnel who defected from Fidel Castro's

Army.

From the time of its inception the MIRR, under the leadership

of Bosch, has been involved in numerous raids against the Cuban

government.

A brief description of each reference is set out below:

INFORMATION

REFERENCE AND

SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

97-44474-1 D.1,2

Article appearing in the "Miami Herald" dated

8/10/60 indicated Bosch named as MIRR delegate

in exile in Miami, Florida.

MM-726-S on 11/1/60 advised that a yacht owned

by Bosch scheduled to make a clandestine trip

to Cuba for purpose of bringing equipment

to

MIRR in the Escambray Mountains of Cuba.

Information set out concerning the establishment

of MIRR in the US; details of planned expeditions

to transport arms to Cuba in November, 1960;

interview with Bosch concerning his associates,

contacts and activities in the MIRR, (on 12/19 -

20/60;).

Included in this reference is a description of

Bosch.

« и

97-4474-10 p. 1,3-9,

12-19,

24,25,

12,247

29-33

SI 109-584-2622

encl.p.5,

(15,435

37

(CIA)

(continued)

-32-

• 7*

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 20

---

## Page 21

(continued)

INFORMATION

Bosch voluntarily admitted on 12/19/60 and

1/3/61 that the MIRR had sent three

separate missions to Cuba - two being

aboard the

"Jolly Roger" in November and

December, 1960.

Bosch expressed desire to

cooperate with the Us Government against

Castro regime.

[MM-726-S advised that on 1/16/61, Bosch

stated guns would be transported from

Green Cay, Banama to Miami, Florida and

flown to

cuba (RTU)

MM-369-S advised

that Bosch was reportedly

in Tampa

to obtain possession of a boatz*(U)

• Details regarding information received in

-January?

February, and March, 1901: concerning

the activities and contacts of Bosch in connec-

tion with several attempts by Bosch to land,

some anti-castro groups in cuba set outre l

One such group was captured on 3/20/61.

Bosch

was interviewed on 3/27/61 regarding this.

Interview and information pertaining to Bosch's

foreign agents registration set out

Letter from the Department of Justice sets

out information regarding the activities of

the MIRR

ing the activities and contacts of Bosch

from August, 1960 through May 2, 1961, in

connection with the MIRR.

Interview with Bosch 5/25/61. Bosch advised

MIRR inactive at that time.

Bosch stated he

had sold all of his radio equipment.

Details

set out.

[MM-726-S advised that Bosch was not doing

anything at that time and was attempting to

sell his equipment. (5/2/61708

(u)

=33-

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 21

SECRET

REFERENCE AND

SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

97-11474-9 p.1,2

97-4474-22 p.1, 1A,

4,5,7,8,

11-15,17,

12,245

23,24

+2487-4474-17 p.2,3

SI 97-4474-21 p.1,2

12,248

97-4474-25 p.1-

3,24)

97-4474-23 p.1-3

(36.24)

SECRET

(continued)

---

## Page 22

(continued)

INFORMATION

SECRET

REFERENCE AND

SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

9732674-100

a check of logical local banks failed

to identify banking facilities,

although investigation revealed that

Bosch paid some air raid expenses

with checks.

Bureau letter of 3/10/64 to Miami

denied this request.

*Bosch intended to set up a base of operations

on Andros Island in the Bahamas to further

launch attacks on sugar refineries in Cuba,

also on a Russian freighter off the coast of

Florida.

( MIRR, under Bosch's direction, was

cooperating with "Comandos L" an anti-Castro

action group in Miamikly)

Bosch also interested in plan of establishing

a base of operations in the Dominicar

Republic.

frequently (March_25 and 26, 1964 Euelio

Alpezar Perez, PSI; protect identity, @lU)

[Armando Fleites Diaz, executive member of the

Segundo Frente Nacional del Escambray (SFNE)

reported to be very close to Bosch.

of SFNE unhappy because of contacts between

Bosch and Fleites.

having communist leanings.

(CIA - 7/20/642708 (U)

Bosch scheduled to make an overflight of Cuba

on the night of 7/24/647 (p(4)

down the East Coast of Florida.

97-4474-104 encl.p.1-3

14,265

7-4474-14

56.28

75-4474-238 p.1,2

(continued)

-35-

SECRET.

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 22

---

## Page 23

(continued)

INFORMATION

{on 8/20/64, according to Ted Eddiger, an

Associated Press Correspondent in Miami,

Bosch stated that he was planning to take

the MIRR to Santo Domingo.

Bosch

maintained that he had found it too

difficult to operate from the US in

conducting his sea and air strikes against

Cuba. (CIAN C (4)

[Leaders of MIRR expressed dissatisfaction

with the MIRk because some of the officers, and

particularly Bosch, were utilizing extralegal

means for obtaining aid to achieve

of the MIRR. Bosch described as responsible,

vulgar, rude,

(CIA - 9/28/64)70

On 12/16/64, INS, Miami advised that the

status of Bosch at that time was that of

being in an indefinite voluntary departure

status.

He originally entered as a visitor,

overstayed, and was granted an extension,

which ran out.

INS did not propose to do anything about

forcing Bosch out of the US because INS knew

of no place where he could be sent.

[Prior to December 31, 1964, Bosch had meetings

with Bill Johnson in an unidentified parking

lot in Miami, Florida.

The purpose of these

meetings was to prepare plans for carrying

out an air raid over Cuba on either 12/31/64

or 1/1/65.

(CIAT

d(4)

-36-

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 23

SECRET

REFERENCE AND

SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

2722674-149 D.2

077/2674-254 p. 2

978,2674-159 p. 1

97-4474-161 p.1

(6428)

(continued)

---

## Page 24

(continued)

INFORMATION

Letter from the Department of Justice

dated 7/12/65, regarding failure of

MIRR to register under Foreign Agents

Registration Act.

Requested Bureau interview persons close

to Bosch and US Customs in Miami be

interviewed to determine any evidence

which would tend to establish the identity

of a foreign principal and any activity

by the MIRR on behalf of such foreign

principal.

Outgoing letter to SAC Miami dated 7/15/65

with a copy of above letter, instructing

that above interviews be handled.

This references contains details of the

investigation conducted to determine if the

MIRR, headquartered in Miami, Florida, had

a foreign principal and whether it was

engaged in any activity on behalf of a

foreign principal. (7/23/65 - 8/10/65)

US Customs, Miami; William Johnson; and

other sources well informed concerning

activities of the MIRR and its leaders,

possessed no evidence that this

or Bosch had a foreign principal inside Cuba or

any other country, or engaged in any activity

on behalf of a foreign principal.

Interview with Johnson regarding above set out.

- 80-4/0530 ü

trip to Tampa, Florida fron

[MIRR public meeting to be held 8/14/65 in

Tampa.

(3558 - 52-575(u)

-38-

NW 45701 DocId:32306892 Page 24

SECRET

REFERENCE AND

SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

184474-21

8,30₴

97-4474-224 encl.p.

18/325

1-4

7834474-225 enc.p. 2

(continued)

SECRET

---

## Page 25

(continued)

INFORMATION

{Plans for picketing the Federal Building

in Miami, Florida, in protest against the

arrest of MIRR leaders on 11/26/65.

"The

Miami Herald" of 11/26/65 reported the

arrest of Bosch and Marcelino Garcia Jimenez,

in Hartford, Conn.

extortion.

real an, on snares bie.

On 1/7/66, Jack Honig, Manager of the Cypress

Furniture

that tee a been contacted By rose, any sed

asked to contribute $1000 to help in the

legal defense of Jose Rodriguez.

(Details

of this contact set out)

Add. info.

LOn 12/17/65, Bosch claimed Jose Rodriguez

Perez had nothing to do with the bombing

of the

"Satrustegui; "[January, 1966, Bosch

in contact with leaders of the

Revolucionario Frank Pais;" asked for their

support in a protest demonstration against

arrest of Perez.

1/13/66 Bosch and Marceleno Garcia disclosed

they were going to attempt to form a unity

of Cuban exile groups. 1/27/66 Bosch triec

to buy explosives for making bombeef)

Financial statement of MIRR set out.

This reference set out information furnished

by MM 635-s regarding a press conference held

by Bosch on 3/5/66, in Miami, where he stated

he had received information

-41-

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 25

SECRET

REFERENCE AND

SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

97-4474-253 p.:

19832+

SI 97-4474-A "NY

11/27/65

Times"

121367

97-4474-268 encl.p.

(10,337

1-3

97-4474-276 encl.p.

1-5

110,347

97-4474-275 encl.p.

(205,337

1-2

(continued)

• .

---

## Page 26

(continued)

INFORMATION

REFERENCE AND

SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

97-4474-275 encl.p.

(10,334

1,2

location of alleged missile sites in Pinar

del Rio Province Cuba from his agents in Cuba.

Informant learned that Bosch received this

information from a Cuban newspaperman rather

than his agents.

Informant pointed out he

had no way of evaluating the information

reported by Bosch.(p)(u)

MIRR, led by Bosch, picketed the Hotel

Fontainebleau, Miami, Florida on 3/9/66..

(State Dept.)

On 1/15/67, US Customs Agents arrested Arthur

Barbaro Balan

Garcia.

in close contact with Bosch and were planning

an air raid off the East Coast of Florida

against commercial shipping trading with Cuba.

Gertite had been closely associated with

Bosch and had flown some aerial search

missions looking for lost Cuban exile boats

in the Bahamas.

(Wallace D. Shanley, Assistant

US Customs Agent in Charge, Miami, Florida)

97-4474-271

10,347

97-4474-328 p.1,'

12,35%

Lastra, a representative of the organization known as La Patria Libre,

had gone to a meeting on 1/28/67 in Tampa, Florida expecting to be one

of the speakers, but that he was prevented from doing so after Orlando

Bosch sent word

from Miami that Lastra should not be allowed to speak

and Bosch threatened to have the meeting disrupted if he spoke.

TP 52-s stated that it was not true that Bosch gave the

above orders

REVIEWED BY

EBUJFK TASK FORCE

ON 1/23/17 Dab/Gb /yB

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

-42-

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 26

---

## Page 27

'SECRET

(continued)

This serial revealed that the above meeting was in honor of

the birthday of Jose Marti, considered the father of Cuba's independence

from Spain.

This meeting was sponsored by the anti-Castro organizations

in Tampa, Florida.

109-584-4497 p.2,3

(46%

MM-635-S advised that Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila, on 1/23/67

revealed plans for his group to attend a mass meeting of Cuban exiles

in Miam1, Florida on 1/28/67 for the purpose of harassing the speakers.

This rally was planned by Dr. Enrique Huertas, President of the Cuban

Medical Association in Exile, and head of the Jose Marty Cuban Liberation

Bank (105-156018), an anti-Castro fund raising group.

(u)

MM-635-S advised that Bosch attended this rally

on 1/28/67.

He attempted to speak but was stopped by Huertas.

After an argument

with Huertas, Bosch was allowed to make a presentation to Dr. Eduardo

Ritter Aisland, Panamanian Ambassador to the

Organization of American

states, and guest of honor at this rally. of (U)

105-56018-6 encl.p.2,3

(15,437

1 105-156010-5 p..

15,434

(CIA)

The following reference contains information of an administra-

tive nature. There is no activity of Orlando Bosch Avila involved.

REFERENCE

97-4474-8

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(2623)

The following references appear in the main files of the

informants listed below.

The information pertaining to Orlando Bosch

Avila was set out because of justification for developing and retaining

informants.

INDIVIDUAL

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

Evello Alpizar Perez

Jose Salazar

105-78969-20 p.1-3

-24 p. 2,3

-32 p. 1

134-12875-2 p. 1,2

-43-

(46%

SECRET

NW 45701 DocId: 32306892 Page 27

---

