# docid-32340823

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

124-10221-10216

HQ

92-3267-741

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: DODGE, HAROLD F.

•TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/31/1967

PAGES:

52

SUBJECTS :

JRO, ASSOC, MED, TRA, ARRESTED, BOND, B/F INT, RES,

CRIMININAL ACT, BANK ACCOUNTS, TOLL CALLS LIST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2, INDEX PAGES a-e

v9.1

DocId: 32340823

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LA 92-113

NE

Referenced airtel from Las Vegas to Los Angeles dated

12/8/66, set forth that on 12/2/56, IV 203-C-TE advised SA CARL F.

FROLMAN that approxamately nine months ago, informant had an

argument with CARL SPARACINO in Las Vegas 'over a business transaction

SPARACINO and informant subsequently became friendly again, at

which time SPARACINO stated. that following their agrument,

SPARACINO

had attempted to contact JOHN ROSELLI to report the actions o

informant.

The source was questioned as to what ROSELLI could do

matter like this and

informant stated that had SPARACINO been

able

to contact ROSELLI, informant would have had to answei to

ROSELLI concerning any complaints that SPARACINO had against him.

Informant was questioned as to why ROSELLI would have

control of him or

any other Italians in Las Vegas and he stated

that ROSELLI Was a

very powerful man in the Las Vegas area and

handled a number of disputes between Italians in Las Vegas.

Informant also pointed out that had SPARACINO known or

reported him to FRANK DESIMONE of LoS Angeles, then the informant

would have had to go before DESIMONE to straighten out the argument.

Informant was very reluctant to actually state that

subject's position was connected with the ICN but implied ROSELLI

was an arbitrator for problems arising between two Italians.

This information should be carefully paraphrased if

used in a report since it could be directly connected with the

informant if used in a report which is disseminated.

On 8/17/66, NY 5542-C-TE (an LCN member source) advised

SAS PAUL G. DURKIN and CHARLES G. DONNELLY that he recently visited

the Flamingo Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada.

While in the Candlelight

Room at this hotel

he observed a very dapper and distinguished

looking gentleman, who made a definite impression on the informant.

He made

inquiries

and determined he was JOHN ROSELLI frOm LOS

Angeles.

It is to be noted at this time he did not know ROSELLI

to be a member of ICN.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32340823

Page 2

---

## Page 3

IA 92-113

Subsequently, informant visited Miami and while in

conversation with JOHN BIELE,

aka Johnny Foto (GAMBLING LEN

"family" member) mentioned he had seen ROSELLI in the Flamingo

Hotel.

FOTO claimed he and ROSELLI were very good friends.

Further,

that ROSELLI was very close to FRANK COSTELLO (GENOVESE

ICN "family"

In addition,

he was told ROSELLI either

nas she concers on lou en ertainmeni or a mit concercion in the

Flamingo Hotel. At this time FOTO stated ROSELLI is a

of ours!

Formerly ROSELLI was with FRANK COSTELLO, but now 19

with VITO GENOVESE. He also stated ROSELLI had the

apartment in

back of the Desert Inn and is apparently very wealthy.

IT IS TO BE NOTED THAT IF ANY OF THE ABOVE INFORMATION

FURNISHED BY NY 5542-C-TE IS USED IN A REPORT OR DISSEMINATED

• IT SHOULD BE CAREFULLY PARAPHRASED INASMUCH AS

HE MY ORT COULD LASTY BE ASOBRATED.

With regard to the statement that ROSELLI has either a

concession for entertainment or the gift concession at the Flamingo

Hotel, it is noted that the Los Angeles Office has no information

to substantiate this.

It is recalled, however, that in 1957, when

the Tropicana Hotel was being built, ROSELLI purchased the gift

concession at that hotel for $5,000 which he sold back to the hotel

within a short period of time for $150, 000.

On 10/14/66, LA 4448-C-TE advised that he had recently

received a telephone call from KAREN FLYNN, an acquaintance of his

whom he had not seen for several years but who he had recalled had

dated JOHN MIRA six or seven years ago. MIRA's father owns the

Batavia, New York Race Track.

been previously identified in this investigation as a girl friend

OÍ JOHN ROSELLI.

KAREN FLYNN told LA 4448-C-TE that several years ago

she loaned MIRA $1, 000 which he never repaid.

She requested

informant to contact MIRA and attempt to obtain this money.

Informant telephonically contacted MIRA who acknowledged

that

FLYNN had loaned him some money but he recalled that he haà

repaid

some of it and owed her not more than half the amount of

$1,000.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32340823

Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA 92-113

Reference is made to information appearing on page 13

of the body of

this report relative to the meeting between ROSELLI

and LEVINSON at the Horseshoe Club on the evening of 11/30/66.

IV 223-C-TE advised that when BENNY BINION joined

the group,

ROSELLI requested BINION to telephonically cóntact LEVINSON to

join the group, which LEVINSON immediately dia.

INFORMANTS

LA I-I

LA T-2

IA T-3

IA I:4

LA T-5

LA I-6

LA T-7

LA I-8

LA I-9

LA T-10

IA I-11

LA T-12

LA I'-13

LA 4357-C-TE

LA 4345 PC

LA 4444-C

CSIA 4757

LA 4444-0

BERNIE WARREN, PCI, LA.

JACK WALTERS

Former PCI

Beverly Rodeo Hotel

BERNIE WARREN, PCI, LA

LA 4615-C-TE

LA 4129-C

Not used

Lit. M. B. PHILLIPS

Intelligence Division

LAPD

BOBBY ADLER, PCI

- F

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32340823

Page 4

---

## Page 5

LA 92-113

LA T-14

LA T-15

LA I-16

LA T-17

LA T-18

LA T-19

CSLA 4316-0

IV 223-C-TE

IV 287-C

IN 10-C

BERNIE WARREN, PCI, LA

IN 203-C-TE

LEADS

LAS VEGAS

Will continue to conduct

investigaton concernas ROstLLl'e activities in Las Vegas,

LOS ANGELES

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA. WIll conduct continuing

Investigation concerning ROSALLI's activities.

G*

COVER

-

PAGE

DocId: 32340823

Page

---

