# docid-32290868-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10206-10144

HQ

92-2781-680

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

FBI

LABADIE, STEPHEN J.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/08/1963

'PAGES:

31

SUBJECTS:

LST, BKG, ACT, RES, ASSOC, RACK AND SUBV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

---

## Page 2

REPORTINO OFFICE

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVES. IGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

TAMPA

SANTO TRAFICANTE, JA., aki.

FEB 8

1963

INVIITIQATIVE PERIOD

1/4/83 - 2/8/83

NAPONT MADI

SA STEPHEN S. LABADIS

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED WY

Burp

RATIFICE:

zaport of 8A BI PITT J. LABADIN, 1/4/63

at tampe

ampa lotter to land datod 1/14/13, oatitled.

"CRIMINAL, INTTLLIGXNCI PROGRAM, TANPA DIVISION. (10)

ROpOrt Of SA PATRICI X. TARRELL, datod 1/11/83 at Mlant.

In CASO OntItIed "STITATO ANTIDITY RANDATIO, AKa;

AR".

Miant airtal to Tampa and Jackionvilla datod 1/15/68

(IO)

Tampa airtol to DireCtor dated 12l/83.

How Orleans lotter to taupa dited 1/30/63. (I0)

Atlanta lotter to lanpa detod 1/29/63: (I0)

Hoaston latter to Tampa datod 1/29/63. (IO)

Taupa airtol to Diroctor dated 1/2/63.

How York Ittor to Tampa datod 12/31/82.

(10)

ENCLOSURES:

TO, BURBAU

Original and copy of letterhead nemorandus

characterizing Informants.

APPROVED

COPIES MADRA

1

1

2

ECIAL AGE

I CHAR

Bureau (92-2781)

-

Atlanta

(92-135)

(Info.)

- Houston (162-233)

:(Info.)

- New York (92-846)

- Miami (92-88)

194,01

-WepT 02-715/62

Dissemination Record

of Attached Repor

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

6 & FEB A 9 1963

DO NOT WAITE IN SPACES BELOW

15181-1680

REG. 63

EX 112

Notations

STATE BÉCT.,

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

LEADS:

NEW YORK DIVISION

AT NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK

Will contact PCI BOBBY EDWARDS and endeavor to

obtain further information relative to his allegation that

TRAFFICANTE was In New York City and whom he states

he met

in the company of JOSEPH STASSI "last week", noting he

advised this on 11/28/62, and endeavor to establish

where subject stayed while in New York.

Will report results of interview with ENRIQUE GARCIA,

80-45 Rew Garden Road, Richmond Hill, New York, Inasmuch as

Miami Office advised New York by letter dated 1/18/63 that

such interview would not compromise source of information.

Will contact other informants who may be in a

position to know of subject's

being in New York City just

prior

to 11/28/62 for

any and all information concerning

such visit of subject.

MIAMI DIVISION

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will

continue intensification of subject's

activities and residence, further establishing highly

confidential Bureau coverage, establishing trash coverage

as well as mail cover.

Will note that no further information

has been developed concerning subject's visit

to Brazil

but that LOUIS P. BRADY, subject of a separate file in

the

Miami Office, had in his possession, when he was arrested on

1/4/63 hy the Tampa P®y300 Biscayne Bouleverd, Miami, Fla::

a copy of a

motel bill number 20964

from the Aloha Motel,

showing that probably BRADY as LUIZ PAULINO BAILEY giving

the address

of Rio de Janeiro,

Brazil, had apparently

stayed at such motel April

and May of

1962 and an appropriate

investigation of this

matter may establish that BRADY and

subject went together to Brazil, further noting that BRADY

also had in his possession a slip of paper oncerning

gambling

equipment, noting it was probably

to be shipped via

B

COVER: PAGE

---

## Page 4

TP 92-1

"Wappen Von Hamburg", and on the right top of the note was

"check with FBI"

Will maintäin contact with CIs in a position to

know and report of subject's constant activities while in

Miami, further

noting. that a PCI of the New York Office

reported subject

was in New York City probably a week before

11/28/62 and will, therefore,

endeavor to establish coverage

of Miami International Airport for any flights subject

may

take.

TAMPA DIVISION

AT COCOA BEACH, FLORIDA

Will maintain contact with TP 94-C regarding

all possible

contacts he may establish with the subject,

noting that

should this source meet with subject, highly

confidential

Bureau coverage should be established It

is noted that a source at Miami has reported that subject

may be interested in some land deals with JOSEPH

INDELICATO

(JOE SCOOTCH) •

It should be noted that if any individuals meeting

with the

subject at Cocoa Beach has been reported by

TP 9C, highly confidential Bureau coverage should be

established.

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA

Will report results of investigation by Legat,

Rio de Janeiro, concerning subject's alleged travel there.

Will report results of investigation Legat, Mexico City,

conerning

investigation being conducted at Guatemala City,

Guatemala®

Will expand highly confidential Bureau coverage

on subject's

associates and maintain contact with sources

of information as

well as CIs concerning subject's activities

when in

i the Tampa area.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

COVER

C

-PAGE

---

## Page 5

TP 92-1

One copy of this report is furnished the Atlanta

and Houston Offices inasmuch as

such offices have been

requested by leads previously set forth to interview

subsoribers to telephones called in their division.

Information set forth on FD-302s concerning

Investigation at Atlanta,

Ga., was obtained from

MrS,

MARIE TIETZ, Secretary,

Security Division, S.B.T and I.

Company, 805 Peachtree

Street N.E., Atlanta.

Information from the records of General Telephone

Company of Florida as set forth on FD-302 by IC HENRY E

MC INTURFF waS

furnished by Mr. WILLIAM CARR, Commercial

Manager, General Telephone Company of Florida.

INFORMANTS:

TP T-I Is PCI BOBBY EDWARDS, New York Office.

TP T-2 is NK 2145-C.

TP T-3 is JERRY GREITZER, former NiC Pel,

now Wall Kill Prison inmate No. 7739.

TP T-4 1S PCI SAM SPITZER, NYC.

TP T-5 is MM 845-C* as reported in Miami letter to

Boston 1/3/63 in case entitled "CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM,

MIAMI DIVISION; AR"

TP T-6 is TP 94-C as reported in Tampa letter to

Miami dated 1/14/63 in case entitled "CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE

PROGRAM,

TAMPA DIVISION; AR"

TP T-7 iS PETER GIAMPAPA, Miami, (owner of the

1961 Falcon) •

TP T-8 is MM 829-PC.

TP T-9. is DOMINICK LA ROCA, PCI, Tampa.

TP T-10 is TP 50-C.

TP I-I1 is TP 80-C*.

COVER

E*

PAGE

$.

---

## Page 6

TP 92-1

DETAILS:

I...

PEESONAL HISTORY AND BACKGROUND INFORMATION

Miami, Floriaa,

report

visited Tampa,

January 19, 1963, of

tO JERRY VALENTI,

brother, FRANK CACCIATORE TRAFFICANTE Of 705 W. Alfred,

Tampa s

Florida.

Subject has been observed at his Miami residence

since above.

II. SUBJECT'S ACTIVITIES

A. Subject reported in New York City.

On November 28, 1962, TP Tel advised SA DONALD E. JE STASS!

JONES that he sees JOE ROGERS, true name, JOSEPH STASSI, On

a daily basis when ROGERS is in New York City he statea

he was with ROGERS last week at the Stage Delicatessen,

54th Street and 7th Avenue and ROGERS introduced him to

CuỚA

SANTO TRAFFICANTE

Source stated that TRAFFICANTE was

with three other man and he got the impression from

ROGERS that

TRAFFICANTE is a "very big man" in gambling

in Florida.

TP I-2 advised in June, 1960, that the STASSI

brothers, JOE, TONY and JIM, run one of the biggest crap

games in New York City and formerly operated a gambling

casino in Havana, Cuba.

TP T-3 advised SA JACK H, LUPTON on December 18, 4.

1962, after being recontacted in the State of New York

relative to information this

same source previously reported

concerning going to Key West, Florida and being in Tampa,

Florida, source stated that he had been thinking about

subject

matter since he was last contacted and the name

of

the individual who gave him a package in Florida is

TONY DIAZ. It was source's recollection that this individual

was from Tampa, Florida, and he could recall nothing

further relative to the matter.

- 2=

---

## Page 7

TP 92-1

On January 31, 1962, subject was observed

having lunch alone in the coffee shop of the Fountainbleau

obel on Miami Beach.

On January 30, 1963, Mrs. IRELAND SMITHY ALFONSO,

1001 N.W. 18th Place, Miami,

telephone FR 4-2906 advised

SA JACK L. MARSHALL that she did not know anyone named

SIDNEY HOROWITZ, aka., Sidney Howard nor SANTO TRAFFICANTE.

Mr •

RALPH ALFONSO, her husband, advised on the

same date that he was from Tampa, Florida, went to school

with the subject but has not seen nor heard nor been

in touch

with him for many years.

Mr. ALFONSO said he

does not know HOROWITZ and the only persons he contacts in

Tampa are members of his family.

On January 24, 1963, TP T-8 advised that he has

known the subject for a number of years andthat the subject"

has been a client on several occasions. Source said subject

had been in his office a few weeks prior to this interview

but declined to discuss any specific matters relative

to the subject inasmuch as he was a client. Source made

the comment that subject has a very unusual personality

and appears to have considerable influence but is the

type

of person that "one can never feel close to"

D. At Tampa, Florida.

As previously reported, Sgt. JACK DE LA LLANA,

Intelligence Unit, Tampa Police Department, advised

that relative to the 1956 Cadillac that appeared at

2505 Bristol Avenue on the evening of January 2, 1963, he

had subsequently ascertained through auto tag registrations

on the vehicle which had born

1 1962 Florida license

3W-51546 that such was transferred on June 8, 1962 to KENNETH

GUTHRIE

4008 Taliaferro,

Tampa faHe said this vehicle had

been followed by

he and

Officer CLAYTON BRIGGS to the

residence of 206 W. Cayuga

of KENNETH LEON GUTHRIE, whO

for the General Telephone Company of Florida.

до дораба Сору 01 590 г. :

Tampa, which was the residence

is employed as an installer

KENNETA LEONA

aTARiE

Since subject was last reported on the night of

+.

---

