# docid-32295020

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10214-10296

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-4225-158

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: WILKEY, MALCOLM R.

TITLE:

DATE:

11/19/1959

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

JFC, ASSOC, BARBARA, JOSEPH, TRAILER, SECRET TUNNEL

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32295020

Page 1

---

## Page 2

COMM-FBI

• NON

€ 1659

Tolson

Belmont

De Loach

McGuire

Mohr®

Parsons

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan.

Tele. Room -

Holloman -

Gandy -

Assistant Attorney General

Malcolm Ne

Willsey

Director, TBI

November 19, 1959

UNITED STATES V.

BONANNO, ot al.

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF

NOW

YORK

CRIMINAL 159-35

NOTE :

JGL: Sw

(8)

MAIL ROOM

Donald C. Shoemaker, 39 Walnut Street,

Binghanton, Vow York, mo appoars to be unreliablo,

recently advised Agents of our Albany Office that

Mrs. Lucy Blossom, Route I, Post Mobile Hones

Trailer

Camp, Apalachin, New York,

had made a statement in his

prosence that there was a

secret tunnel on the estate of

Joseph Barbara, Apalachin, New York, at the time of

the

meeting of

hoodlums there on November 14, 1957.

Shoemaker has also advised that Melvin Blossom,

husband of Mrs. Lucy Blossom, whe was employed on the

Barbara estate at the time of the Apalachin neeting and

raid, stated that all of the visitors who vere prosent

at the time of the raid took an oath thereaiter that they

would never

disclose what took place and that i1 any one

of them did, he would be killed.

Shoemaker also advased

that Me. Blosson further stated

that at the time of the

raid, he observed some of the visitors run into the

woods and throw away guns.

Mrs. Blosson has denied statements attributed

to her by Shoemaler and. has stated that she has no

Inowledge of a secret tunnel on the Barbara estate or 610

any guns having been discarded at the time of the raid on

En i

the Apalachin meeting.

A representative of the Indicott,

Net? York,

Polico

popartant has niteed that hoem or and his tan

Illa Shoemaker, vere arrested December 9, 950.

Shoemaker

was charged

sollciting and vagrancy

and received

6 months jail sentence:

Hirs. Shoemaker was sentenced

following

this arrost to an

indefinite tern inha

vonen's

pILSOn

An official of the Binghanton,

New York Police

Departnent has advised that Shoemaker has been under investl

gation for soliciting for his wife and bringing men to his

apartment for purposes of prosc tution.

÷ REC 9414

This is for your

incorma tton.

158

See

iX 1045

memo Rosen

• Director 1119/59 JGL: sw

OV 24

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32295020

Page 2

---

