# docid-32332884

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90104-10182

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2940-27

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

PG

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/15/1958

'PAGES:

40

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/27/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF EOUSA, IRS

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HH 56792

DocId: 32332884

Page 1

Date:

5/11/201

Released under the John'

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cases:N 56792 Date:

4-10-2018

---

## Page 2

PG: 92-226

married PRECIOUS R. MARINO, als® lives at San Jose, California,

and runs a cheese factory with his father. He recalled that

at the wedding of ANGELO and PRECIOUS, JON LA ROCCA, MIKE

CENOVESE and KELIY MANNARINO were inattendance

SCARDINA advised that the cheese factory at San Jose,

California,

was actually, purchased by SALVATORE MARINO,

who gave It to ANGELO. He advised that as far as he can

determine, neither of the MARINOs are in illegitimate

businesses of any kind in the California area.

ordeved

It was previously determined that telephone calls were made

from the LA ROCCA residence at Ingomar, Pa., to telephone

onnstown

Ia. -1102. This has bee

subsequently determined

to be the number subseribed to by SAM FASHION, Millway

Cafe, 118 Walnut Street, Johnstown, Pa. He allegealy operates

unis care Ior JOSEPH REGINA, a close associate of LA ROCCA

and LA ROCCAls younger brother. JOhn pLA ROCCA, tIves

upstairs over the cafe,

The New York Office advised on April 1l, 1958, that additional

Information received from the Bureau of Motor Vehleles at

New York City, reflects that HENRY TURCOTT, who has been

contacted from the LA ROCCA residence at Pittsburgh on

numerous occasions, was born June 17, 1906, 18 516" tall,

weight - 148 pounds, has brown hair and blue eyes and has

been assigned operatorts license 59407. He had a

chevrolet station wagon, green in color, bearing 1957

New York license Surburban 04939, which vehicle bears

Motor Number 0371886r55X and

Serial Nunber: H2558019130,

he does not have a chauffeur's licenser

D: CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES

Interview of VINCENT CASEY, Attorney For MIKE GENOVESE, and

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA

The New York Office advised on April 11,

1958, that SA JOHN J.

RYAN had confidentially learned from WILZIAM LYNCH, Assistant

United. States Attorney for the Southern District of New York,

that

had been subpoenaed for appearance before the Federal Grand

Jury for the Southern District of New York on Thursday

= 17 -

REVIEWED BY BEWUFK TASK FORCE

ON

9/24/97 Ach

SE RELEASE IN FUL:

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

JFK Law 10(a)2

92-2940-27

HH 56792 Do0Id:32332884

Page 2

---

## Page 3

ÄJFK Law 10(ä)2

92-226

"April 17, 1958.

connected with

His appearance was belleved to be directly

non appearancs before the Federal

Grand Jury as ordered.

On Apr11 18, 1958, ALBERT DI NEOLO, United States Marshal

for the Western District of Pennsylvania at Pittsburgh,

advised that on Saturday, April 12, 1958, he served a

subpoena to VINCENT CASEY,

the attorney

for SEBASTIAN JOHN

IA ROCCA, for his appearance before the Federal Grand Jury

for the Southern Distriot of New York on April 17, 1958.JHe

stated that he die this after receiving telephonic instructions

New York City,

him that CASEY's appearance would not be necessary.

DI MEOLO said that KAUFMAN told him confidentially that he

might have the Federal

Bureau of Investigation interview

CASEY to make sure he realized that LA ROCAls appearance

i was

"very sought after" and in order to show CASEY that

the "pressure had not been let up"

as far as his responsibility

to produce LA ROCCA was concerned.

He said KAUFMAN told

hin he was very reluctant to subpeena a lawyer but was

willing to try almest anything to insure LA ROCCAs lappedrance.

VINCENT CASEY, attorney for several of Pittsburch's top

heedlums; Ineluding MIKE GENOVESE and SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA,

was contaeted on April 18, 1958, by SAS RICHARD &. DOUCE and

ROBERT A. VEGat his office in the Grant Building, In

connection with another matter. He advised that his subpoena

had been canceled and that he did not anticipate another.

He said he considered the appearances of indivianals before

that particular Federal Grand Jury a complete waste of time

and money.

He stated that

contacted hin telephonically

after being served with a subpoena and requested CASEY to

accompany him to New York for legal advie

He said that he

and

traveled to and from the New york appeananse:

together via the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad and "stood

around"

with

groups of hoodlums for one entire day without

being called.

He recalled that I

on

the second day,

was asked a great many "generalized personal and Irrelevant

questions" by members of the Grand Jury and:that he advised

Ita answer these as he: san

fit, but to abilise the

Fifth Amendment if he did not. wish to discuss the purpose

and ramifications of the

USM

REVIEWED BY_ENJEK TASK FORCE

ON

10/1/97 80

I RELOAD NAULL

D

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

92-2940-27

56792

DocId: 32332884

Page

---

## Page 4

JFK Law 10(a)2

PO 92 226

CASEY advised that he was in Indo China at the time or the

Apalachin meeting and was extremely surprised upon his return

to learn that the Federal Grand Jury

In New York was interested

whom he feels has been

"unduly persecuted"

throurhout

his lifetime, CASEY was advised by his Interviewers

that

at the time of the

and that therefore, it was natural for him to receive a subpoena

also. He stated that he never discussed the l

with

since he felt it was none of his business and that

by the same token; never volunteered any information

concerning

CASEY advised that he knows nothing of IA ROCCA!& present

whereabouts and wishes he did

since he has a local: civil tax

matter to discuss with him. He said he has represented

LA ROCCA on his tax matters for quite some time and that the

entire situation came about as a result of a net worth statement

submitted by LA ROCCA in 1948. He sald he understood that the

sister of JOHN CONTI, & cousin to LA ROCCA, had died and that

IA ROCOA could not be contacted regarding this

death, which

occurred recently.: He sale he is at a loss to explain the

disappearance of IA ROCCA and thinks LA ROCCA should get the

New York appearance "over with."

He said he would advise

LATROCCA to invoke the Fifth Ammendment and thus satisfy his

obligation

CASEY was questioned speclfically concerning his presence at

Hot Springs; Arkansas during larch, 1957, at which time he

was in the company of CABRIEL, MANNARINO.

Pittsburgh top

hooddum who attended the Apalachin neeting;

and LA ROCCA.

He appeared Initially surprised at this line of questioning

and remarked that,

"the FBI knows more abeut LA ROCCA than

I do." He advised that he visited Hot springs for the specifie

purpose of conferring with'IA ROCCA about a legal matter and

took papers with him for LA ROCCA to examine. He 'stated that

the other individuals

"just happened to be there"

and that

he understood that most of them had vacationed at this

location for twenty years or more.

On Apr11: 16, 1958, Assistant United States Attorney SIEPHEN

KAUFNAN of the Southern District of New York, advised

Bureau agents' at New York Olty that he had been in socasional

LOUSA

REVIEWED BY RBUJFK TASK FORCE

• 19 -

fit"

ON

929157 des

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TUTAL DENIAL

PLi

43-2940-27

HH 56792

DocId: 32332884

Page 4

---

## Page 5

"JEK Law 10(a)2

P0 92-226

contact with

who had interred

that he could produce

for questioning

he said that

upon the continued failure of the United States Marshal/at

Pittsburgh to effect serving

the subpoena. he

had lasued a subpoena for the

of

on

April 17, 1958. He stated that

has commnicated with

him by telephone on the morning

of April 16, 1958,

and had

Informed him that he did not know of

whereabouts

and that therefore, he had excused

from the scheduled

appearance on April 17, 1958.

General Criminal Information Relating TO LA ROCCA and His Associates

who has furnished rellable information In the past, advised

the Red Eagle Club

and that very few of the top level" friends

of the ENovEsE brothers have frequented the olub. Informant

stated that ArCHTNison, pittaburgh too hoodlum,

still cats

but that

FRANK' VALENTI, another Pittsburgh

top hoodlum, has hot been in the vicinity for months,

Informant observed JOE ROSA and his son,

known as.

at the Cocktail lounge on many occasions,

"LITTLE JOE,"

, but explained that

"LITTLE JOE" was never allowed Into

conferences held by

top level hoodlums since his father wished to keep him clean.

Informant advised that EVELYN "PEPPER® CAPPELIANO still dates

PHIL GENOVESE regularly and has to take days off from her

Job frequently because her face Is bruised from beatings

administered by her paramour, Informant was unable to

pinpoint the exact location of SEBASTIAN JOHN. IA ROCCA but

stated that there is an excellent possibility that hets:

in the Pittsburgh vicinity and 18 simply

staying hidden to

avold the serving of a subpoena on him.

pA.:

englarch 11 1950, CHUCKATEEMER, a

close associate or the subject

and of other top hoodlumsy wo is a top hoodlum

of the Pittsburgh

Office himself, was contacted in his suite, of rooms at the

Carlton House Hotel In Pittsburgh by SAS GENE H. SIUDEBAKER and

JOHN S. PORTELLA, and advised that he was well aware that

the. FBI was making certain Inquiries concerning him and

people with whom he hae associated,: but felt that he had

nothing to worry about because he knew he had not violated

any law that came within Federal jurisdletion

*20 -

98-2940-27

HH 56792

DocId:32332884

Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-226

"One reason given for IA ROCCA!s'disappearance'1s

that he may fear revival of deportation charges

which were dropped last year when he won an

acquittal on a perjury charge.

Interest of the Internal Revenue Service In the Subject

ROBERT GANLEY, Special Agent, Intelligence Division, Internal

Revenue Service, 521 New Federal Building,

Pittsburgh,

advised

on April 15, 1958, that the Internal Revenue

Service

JEK Law 11 (a)

Other Matters of A Miscellaneous Nature

The Buffalo Office: advised on April 2, 1958, that Miss VIRGINIA

KOLZMINSKI, Clerk, Irmigration and Naturalization Service,

Buffalo, New York, had advised that her indices reflects

a request was made by 'Immigration and Naturallzation Service

in rittsburgh, under file 0700-19145,

for an Investigation

concerning the subject. These: results were furnished to

Pittsburgh and there is no further information in the

Buffalo files.

T-5, who has furnished reliable information in the past,

advised that limited records of the Prüdential Insurance

company at Newark; New.Jersey, reflect only that

Prudential foreclosed on the LA ROCCA property at

321 South Main Street, Jamestown, New York, on April 21,

1934.

The company held it as, company property

antil 'lt

was sold on May 1, 1945-

The original loan of $8,000

was carried under Mortgage Lean No. 286109, but there was

no further data with respect to the manner of transaction

for the Ioan between

the trudential Insurance Company and

LA ROCCA.

- 29 -

98-2940-27

HH 56792 DocId:32332884 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PG 92-226

INFORMANTS

TALLO WITLIAM MEREDITH, Special Agent, Bell, relephene

company of Pennsylvania,

STEVENS on April 15,

who was contacted by SA HArOLD L.

1958, and

who has requested that his

identity be concealed.

T-2 1s H. W. GLENN, Postal Inspector, United States Post

, 1958, and again on April 15: 1958,

and who requested that his identity be concealed.

T-3 1s

a potential criminal informant

1958, DY SA PURERT AT CORE

was contacted on April 23,

T-4 16 GEORGE (MOON) MESSER, a potential criminal Informent

of the Pittsburgh Office whe was contacted by SA voEdE,

on April

8 and 28, 1958.

T-5 1s NK-8, whose identity 1s known to the Bureau.

- 31

NH 56792

DocId:32332884

Page

---

