# docid_32287906

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10198-10182

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-1954

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

ROEMER, WILLIAM F.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

01/26/1967

14

SGI, ACT, OC, NEG

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32287906 Page 1

183

---

## Page 2

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIG

ATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

SECRET

CLASSIPIGATION

DATE.

ACTION

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

CHICAGO

1-26-67

11/16/66 - 1/16/67

REPORT MADE BY

WILLIAM F. ROEMER

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED E!

bak

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka

ANTI-RACKETEERING

ALT, INFOR

HERE F

EXCEFT.

OTHERWISE

CONTAINED

IFIED

I SHOWN

REFERENCE:

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU

Report of SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER, DATED 11/21/66

at Chicago. (U).

BUS OPPROPRIATE GENCIES.

AND FIELD

FICES

toda

ADVISED BY

CONTING

SLIP (S) OF

VAS

(2)

DATE

Boft

Twò (2) copies of a letterhead

memorandum setting forti

charactor tzation of 37 Ra lized in Instant;

DECLASSIFIEI

ON 10/20

Burg

report. U

183121/26

PHILADELPHIA

83-8049

FMAPON-ECIM II,

4.2-25 8?

AT PHILADELPHIA,

PENNSYLVANIA.

OF REVIEW

Grili81

contact

is noted that this informant is furnishing

extremely valuable information in instant investigation in that

his information concerning the itinerary of PHYLLIS MC GUIRE has

Pending ove

one year yes - Pending prosecution wer 6 months - no.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

14

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW?

- Bureau

(92-3171) (Brey

921

1

3171+195%

- USA,

Chicago

- Philadelphia

(92-907)

• REC 26

-

New. York

(92-793)

11 JAN 30 1967

-

San Juan

(92-91)

- Chicago (92-349)

EX 104

OTHER 4

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

1 de AAG, Criminal Dision,

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

ranized Crime and Racketeering

•59F FE S81886700m 2524.

FITS

BLAS

CATEGORY

AGEASO VICATION INDSFINICE 9EY 7Y

ДОРІРУЗ

NW 45792 DocId:32287906 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG

92-349

proved to be very accurate.

It is noted that this informant

advised that MC GUIRE would be flying from New York to Mexico

City on December 19, 1966[which fact was subsequently verified

through observance

MC GUIRE and GIANCANA in Mexico City on

December 19, 1966

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK.

Will continue to

monitor the itinerary of PHYLLIS MC GUIRE through CSNY 23 and (U)

SAN JUAN

AT SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO.

Will report investigation

conducted regarding the appearance of GIANCANA in San Juan on

January 13, 1967, as set out in your airtel to Director and

Chicago, dated January 16, 1967. (V)

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO,

ILLINOIS.

Will 'continue to follow and

report the activities of GIANCANA U

INFORMANTS

Source

CG T-1

PCI

OTHER 4

CG T-2

CG 6533-C

CG T-3

CG 6690-C-TE

CG T-4

PCI L

Philadelphia Division

Date Contacted

On numerous occasions

during November and December,

1966 and January, 1967 to SA

WILLIAM F. ROEMER

•December 19, 1966 and January 16,

1967 to SA

MAX FRITCHEL

On November 29, December 1, and 23,

1966 to SA LENARD A. WOLF

November 21, 1966 to

Philadelphia Special Agent

- B -

COVER PAGE

TAST

NW 45792 DocId:32287906 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-349

Source

CG T-5

PCI ALFREDO PIZANO

CG T-6

PCI JEROME HAAS

CG T-7

CG

6438-C

CG T-8

LV 238-PC

Date Contacted

November 22, 1966 to SA

ROBERT J. TOMPKINS, JR.

December 7, 1966 to SA

GEORGE

PARFET

December 23, 1966 to

SA JEROME BREIDENFELD

December 21, 1966 and January 16, 1967

to San Juan

Office

-C* -

COVER PAGE

NW 45792 DocId:32287906 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-349

SLORET

PHYLLIS MC GUIRE was observed by the Mexico City Police

to arrive via Air France in Mexico City on December 19, 1966.

She was met by

an individual unknown to the Mexico City

• Police'

whon they described as approximately. 34 years of age, 5'10",

170 pounds, medium build, light brown hair, horn rimmed glasses,

good looking and well dressed. This individual escorted

MC GUIRE to the Hotel Maria Isabel and police observed them

"necking" in the taxicab en route to this hotel. Mexico City

Police observed SAM GIANCANA at the Mexico City

Airport but

did not observe him in contact with MC GUIRE.

The above individual

was observed in the company of GIANCANA at the airport prior

to the arrival of MC GUIRE. This unknown individual was observed

by Mexico City Police driving a white

bearing 1966

Illinois number PG 5000. (SUSSW

Mexico City Police advised that

PHYLLIS MC GUIRE checked f

out of the motel me mate

on December

20, 1966 and was not

thereafter seen in Mexico.

CG T-6 advised in early

December, 1966, that he had

recently

observed RICHARD CAIN driving an Oldsmobile bearing

1966 Illinois license PG 5000 in Chicago sometime prior to

early December, 1966. RICHARD CAIN is a former Chief Investigator

for the Cook County Sheriff's Office who was discharged from

that position following his conviction for perjury before the

Cook County Grand Jury during an investigation by the Grand, Jury

of the circumstances leading to the arrest by CAIN of burglars

of a drug firm.

Informations previously been set out showing

that CAIN had been corrupted by GIANCANA while the Chief

Inestigator for the cook

County Sheriff's Office and is a close

associate of GIANCANA. U

CG T-T advised that although the registrant for Illinois

license number PG 5000 is not listed in the files of the Secretary

as Sette Eat other to stration PEATA,

Illinois State Representative and Republican Ward Committeeman

of the First Ward of the City of Chicago. ¿ Information has been

-5 -

_SECRET

NW 45792 DocId: 32287906 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG

92-349

previously set out that GRANATA is a close associate of GIANCANA

and under the domination of GIANCANA in the Illinois House

of Répresentatives where he is known to be the leader of the

'"West Side Bloc" a bi-partisan political group mainly from

Chicago, Illinois which has consistently opposed anti-crime

legislation In the Illinois General Assembly. (U)

The Mexico City Police Department determined that

SAM GIANCANA was registered alone' at the Hotel Canarios,

Cuernavaca,,

Mexico from approximately Navember 20 to December 6,

1966 • (870YC

4

Buenos Aires, Argentina

phykhis seas

Ma Guise.

CG T-4 advised that he is aware that PHYLLIS/MC GUIRE

flew from New York City to Buenos Aires, Argentina_ on December 8,

1966.

CG T-4 advised that he assumed that MC GUIRE would meet

GIANCANA in Buenos Aires upon her arrival.

information is set out herein above that GIANCANA checke

of a hotel in Cuernavaca, Mexico on December 6, 1966 $

San Juan, Puerto Rico

1(4)

Mexie?

CG T-8 advised in late December,

1966, that he

obtained information that SAM GIANCANA would arrive in San

Juan, Puerto Rico, between January 6, 1967 and January 9, 1967.(U)

CG T-8 advised that GIANCANA arrived in San Juan on

January 13, 1967 and that as of January 16, 1967, although not

registered, he was staying in the Sheraton Hotel in San Juan

with PHYLLIS MC GUIRE who was appearing at the Sheraton Hotel

in San Juan for an engagement lating from January 5, 1967 through

January 18, 1967.

GIANCANA was observed by FBl Agents in

the Sheraton Hotel on January 16, 1967. (U

- 6*-

SECRET

NW 45792 DocId: 32287906 Page 6

---

