# docid-32290728-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10206-10004

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3182-576

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 07/18/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

GAL, ASSOC, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

N9.1

299

---

## Page 2

wich

ant

cặi ... 0.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

SUL 18 1962

TELETYPE

W

mia

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans.

A Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy.

DEFERRED

718-62

10-17

PM

JLS

TO DIRECTOR, FBI

192-31826

FROM SAC, CHICAGO

192-3731 2P

GUS ALEX, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

PCI DONALD KING ADVISED YESTERDAY THAT MIKE FISH®S

RESTAURANT FORMERLY FREQUENTED BY ALEX AND OTHER CHICAGO HOODLUMS

HAS BEEN OUT OF BUSINESS FOR LITTLE OVER A MONTH• HE SAID HE RECENTLY

LEARNED THAT MIKE FISH IS NOW IN BUSINESS WITH HIS BROTHER PETE

FISH IN PETE FISH•S RESTAURANT LOCATED IN THE SAME NEIGHBORHOOD

ABOUT TWO BLOCKS FROM MIKE FISHS OLD LOCATION. PCI ALSO ADVISED HE

HAS LEARNED THAT ALEX AND HIS ASSOCIATES

NOW FREQUENT PETE FISH-S

RESTAURANT AND HAVE BEEN DOING SO SINCE MIKE FISH HAS BEEN THERE•

NOTED THAT MIKE FISH IN INTERVIEW HAS ADMITTED

CLOSE ERIENDSHIP

WITH ALEX BUT DENIED KNOWLEDGE OF HIS ACTIVITIES• PAS

FURTHER

ADVISED THAT IN REGARD TO MIKE FISHOS OLE LOCATION TUORINDIVIDUS

BELIEVED TO BE BROTHERS OF GREEK EXTRACTION, HAVE BEEN LOOKING A

THIS RESTAURAYI AND IT IS FUMORED THAT THEY INTEND TRIBUY THE

END PAGE ONE

REG-&

42-3182-

516

EX ICO

25 JUL 19 1962

55 JUL 2 4 1962

---

