# docid-32307758

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10293-10116

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-4213-3, 4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEE, IVAN D.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/27/1965

12

JFC, ASSOC, REL, RES, PERSONAL HISTORY, BKG

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32307758

Page 1

Date:

4/24/201

-.--.-

---

## Page 2

FD-:6:

"7 5-1-59)

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DATE

9/27/65

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PEFOO

8/4 - 9/21/65

TYPED BY

ROSARIO MUSSO, aka

Ross: Musso

IVAN D. LEE

CHARACTER OF CASE

san

AR

REFERENCE: Dallas report of SA MILTON L. NEWSOM 7/1/59.

-P-

ENCLOSURES TO THE BUREAU:

Iwo copies of a LHM setting forth the characterization

of informants mentioned in the details.

LEADS :

DALLAS

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

1.

Will meintain contact with sources and informants

lamiliar with the activities of the CIVELLO'S and MUSSO in

effort to cover MUSSO'S activities and contacts.

2: Will conduct surveillances on MUSSO who is usually

in the accompany of JOSEPH CIVELLO in an effort to ascertaio

his activities and contacts.

SPEC CHARGE W

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-4213 -

3

3-Bureau (Bace-2)

1- USA,

fort worth, Texas

2-Dallas (92-195)

REC I

5 OCT

1965

110

NOTATIONS

STAT SECTLY

AGENCY..

REQUEST RECO.

DATE FWO. -

HOW FWD.

BY.

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

/

/C/

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

16-76321-1

DocId: 32307758 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 92-195

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The investigation concerning ROSS MUSSO, brot fer-in-

law of JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO, FBI Number 1222605 who is a

member of the LCN was reopened on August 4, 1965, by the Dallas

Division in an effort to obtain background information concern-

ing MUSSO and to ascertain his activities and contacts.

Investigation of MUSSO'S activities to date fail to

indicate that he is involved in any criminal activities nor

is he known to associate with the criminal element in the

Dallas, Texas, area.

Surveillances conducted on JOSEPH CIVELLO in the

past indicates that MUSSO is usually in the company of JOSEPH

CIVELLO when they are at the liquor store owned by CHARLES

CIVELLO located at 3122 West Mockingbird Lane.

It should be

noted that ROSS MUSSO is married to JOSEPH CIVELLO'S sister

FRANCES and that they both reside in the same residence

at

4908 Gulfstream, Dallas, Texas.

INFORMANTS:

DLT 1

DLT

2

DLT

HERBERT HUGHES, Dun and Brad-

Street.

DL. 135 - C

PCI STEVEN CANELLOS

-B*-

COVER

PAGE

DocId: 32307758

Page

---

## Page 4

'ev.

5-1-591

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

DALLAS

11/22/65

REPORT MADE BY

IVAN D. LEE

CHARACTER OF CASE

9/29 - 11/12/65

ROSARIO MUSSO, aka

Ross Musso

AR

REFERENCE: Report of SA IVAN D. LEE, dated 9/27/65, at Dallas.

-P-

TYPED BY

jP

-

ENCLOSURES:

TO BUREAU

Two (2) copies of LHM setting forth the characterization

of informants mentioned in the details of this report.

LEADS:

DALLAS

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

Pending over one year

Pending

prosecution over six months

No

SPECCALARGENT

IN CHARGE

3 - Bureau (92-4213) (Ene: 2)

1 - USA, Fort Worth

2 - Dallas (92-195)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-4213-4

REC-6

NOV 29 1965

Agency

Request Recd.

Dote Fwd.

How Fwd.

B:

DocId: 32307758 Page 4

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Rift

2/1/65

Notations

---

## Page 5

DL

92-195

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

1. Will conduct surveillances on MUSSO to ascertain

his activities.

2. Will continue to contact sources and informants

in an effort to cover MUSSO's activities and contacts.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The investigation of MUSSO, who is 69 years old,

indicates that he usually travels to and from his residence in

the company of his brother-in-law, JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO,

and that the travel usually involves a trip to the Airway

Liquor Store owned by CHARLES EDWARD CIVELLO.

There is no

information to indicate that MUSSO is involved in any criminal

activities or is he associating with the criminal element in

the Dallas area..

It has been noted through spot surveillances

that

MUSSO has been spending a considerablecamount of time working

at the Airway Liquor Store during the past month.

Regarding the records of the Exchange Bank and Trust

Company as mentioned in the details, information was furnished

by MR. LEON HENSLEY, Vice President.

INFORMANIS

DI T-1 is DL 135-C.

DL T-2 is DL 271-C.

DL T-3 is DL 275-C-TE.

B*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32307758

Page

---

