# docid-32290962-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10206-10238

HQ

105-83564-16

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, TP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 03/02/1982

PAGES:

16

SUBJECTS :

MLO, BKG, REL, ASSOC, RES, EMP, MED/PERS HIST

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

---

## Page 2

*D-36 (Rev. 5-22-78)

TRANSMIT IA:

• Teletype

• Facsimile

AIRTEL

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

Immediate

I Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFIGT

JON:

O TOP SES-AT

7 SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

D UNCLAS EFT O

D UNCLAS

Date_3/2/82

c,d

0(6)

8 19 198

CONFEDENTIAL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SACE TAMPA 2 202C-New) (Sq. 6)}

ILONA MARITA

AFCI - CUBAL

TOREN 2314,8 A

00: TAMPA

20-17-94 Sps Mu

Declassiry on:

The entire contents of this communication including

title and file numbers are classified

"Confidential" unless

otherwise noted.

Ro Tampa telephone call to SA tary wack, Nomer

Office, 2/26/82.

FK

Enclosed for the Bureau, Miami, New York, and WFO 1s

one copy each of a drawing provided by Lorenz, depicting the

interior of an immigration house in Vedado, Cuba, where she

resided from 9/27/81 to 9/28/81.

10 t its 83564-16

ALE INPONMATTON CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFLED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

GONE T

erassified and Ex

Bonded bx 7022,

_ExtensIcaFCIM

view

=Hn12122830

Decasty folor 9/27118

For Dee ais

cation= 32/2002.

Bureau (Enc. 1)

ENCLOSURE

2

3

- Miami (Enc. 1)

- New York (Enc. 1)

11 - 137-

- WFO (Enc. 1) (INFO)

2

- Tampa

JPL:raf

(12)

MAR

1982

- Glass

Approved:

RBK

Transmitted -

THEN DENTIAO

(Time)

Per

FBI/DeJ

---

## Page 3

-T..

CONFI

DENTIAI

202C-New.

2/24/82, a preliminary inquiry was initiated

Ilona Marita Lorenz

with an expiration date of 6/23/82.

on 2/24/82, Ilona Marita Lorenz, 1085 Terrace Deive!

mEagle Lake, Florida, was interviewed by SA James Patrick Laflin.

Latin dictators, organized crime figures, and FBl contacts.

Lorenz alleged to have born illegitimate children to:

Fidel Castro, Prime Minister of Cuba

General Perez Jimenez, Former Dictator of Venezuela

Ed Levy, New York Organized Crime Figure

Lorenz also alleged to have been an FBI informant for

various periods of time, dating back to 1960, when she was a member

of the 26th of July Movement.

Lorenz noted

that most recently,

she had been providing information to SA Larry Wack of the New

York Office.

Lorenz had in her possession a considerable amount

of legal documents and personal memorabilia to lend credence to

her statements, e.g. a Viking Press Publishing House contract

providing Lorenz with a $325,000 advance for her expose on Fidel

Castro,

and a letter from Ballantine Books requesting the

exclusive rights to the autobiography of DI. Fidel Castro Ruz.

Lorenz also verified travel to Cuba from 9/27-28/81..

Referenced Tampa telephone call to SA Larry Wack, NYO,

was made in order to verify Lorenz' bona fides. SA Wack indicated

that Lorenz had cooperated with the FBI in the past,

but she was

unstable.

SA Wack noted that Lorenz did associate with organized

crime figures, and that her "affair" with Fidel Castro had been

highly publicized in the past.

SA Wack stated that Lorenz may

be providing information of some significance, but that Lorenz

had a penchant for exaggeration.

SA Wack recommended providing

Lorenz' complete novelette to New York for analysis and review.

SA Wack indicated that Lorenz' daughter, Monica, currently resides

in New York, and would be available to verify which aspects of

Lorenz' story were accurate and of a serious nature.

on 2/24/82, Ilona Marita Lorenz provided the following

information:

Lorenz

was born 8/18/39 in Bremen-Germany.

Her parents

were Commander Heinrich Friedrich (German)

and Alice June Loflend

(English).

During 1950, the Lorenz family moved to Bradenton,

Florida.

Lorenz quit school after the 9th grade to travel with

her father, who was at that time a Captain of the Berlin Bremen

Oceanliner.

Lorenz was schooled in languages and secretarial work

by private tutors aboard her father's ship.

CONFID

SENILAL

2.

---

## Page 4

CONFID

NTIAL

202C-New

(и)

to be disbursed at intervals.

For signing the contract, Lorenz

was immediately given $84,000.

1 2160

away from New York in order to avoid any further publicity.

During January, 1979, Lorenz moved to Darien, Connecticut where,

based on the merits of her book contract, she received a loan of

$100,000 from the Peoples Bank in order to purchase a home at

86 Maywood Road, Darien.

on 4/16/79, Levy Visited Lorenz to warn her the mafia

believed she had purchased the Darien home with mafia money stolen

by Levy. Levy proceeded to make numerous long distance telephone

ext enter to make one to Switzerlatan e

Lorenz

believes Levy did this

intentionally in order to implicate her

in his mafia swindle.

Levy told Lorenz that he was paying the Carlo Gambino

family in Brooklyn $10,000 per month in order to stay alive.

Levy asked Lorenz for part of the advance money from the sale of

her book. Lorenz

wrote out a $10,000 check to Levy to cover

Levy's May, 1979, protection money.

Lorenz noted that Levy had already been convicted of one

count of mail fraud in New York, but had allegedly received a

reduced sentence for cooperating with the Federal investigators.

Levy was to report to Eglin Air

Force Base Minimal Security Prison

the following month to serve a six month sentence. Levy is

currently residing in Ft. Lauderdale, and will be off of parole

in March, 1982.

house was intentionally flooded and her daughter wounded by a

sniper near their home.

A that Bona

A week after Levy's visit to Darien, Connecticut, Lorenz'

A second shooting took place during

October, 1979.

All of these: incidents were reported to the Darien

Police.

Lorenz decided to abandon the house and move the family

back to 512 East 88th Street, Apartment ID, New York.

During this

period, Lorenz had maintained the above apartment because of her

frequent trips back to New York City. Lorenz had been cooperating

with the NYCPD by providing research concerning a law suit by

Frank Sturgis against the NYCPD.

Sturgis was suing the NYCPD for

$15 million for false

arrest.

Sturgis had been arrested for

threatening Lorenz prior to her testifying before the Sub-committee

on the assassination of John F. Kennedy.

its as an: $ ropes

CONFIDENTIAL

8.

---

