# docid-32314921

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10338-10031

RECORD SERIES : KC

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-116-1504

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: KC

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/17/1962

31

NICHOLAS CIVELLA (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

DocId: 32314921

Page

---

## Page 2

IC 09-110

aboat tro veets provtoualy and RAlIE had aiso apparcntly

departed feg Kansas City os 2-7-62.

He forvording address

for elther Ir. or Mre. MAIlVS vas avallable at the

Worth

Anetscan

Insuranco Coupony.

JOHN SB BLASe, Superintendent of Enils oiitce,

Tiasn Poat Ci3ic0, San Diego (PROTBCY I2KTITT), confiden-

tinlly advieod ho had located a fersarging address for BICHAED

A. and WIMIEEED RAELrS to 102 *J* Stroet, Chute Viste, Cali*

102010g

21-09.

The San Dlego Clty Dizectory Lists D0JMD J.

BAULES (CONSTANC) 1.), U. S. Hovy, hono 101 "*" Strect,

Chula V1ac9.

Telephoue Intormation furntshod phone munber

at thie edireza as €20-0000.

Telephense toquiny under pre-

tost disclosed thet LICHARD BARtES ind his children vere

rosiding ot that adtross.

Inquiry was not nade regarding

VINTISEO

BASAeS

as it sas not decnod advisable.

Spcetal Agent TOY MSTEN (PROSDCT IUWTIIT), conft

dentially advised that Pacilie Telephono & Telogrugh

Conpany

оз поштозо eesce»! "aa enoudoto, sat pessetar sicoea

RICHARD

A. BAHLES,

sooa aulas Street; ban Diego, had been

discontinued on 2-1-62.

Eotos on telophone accouat retleoted

thot teo. E/IEFD: hasi gone to Kansas City 2bout 1-80-02 and

comccapondenco Soa RICUMD RARLES mas to be torsaadod te DOLAD

BARLIB,

201 *g*

street, Chule Vista, Coltfornle.

RODOL2N

¡ ESCBO, 3332 Atlao Street, Ban Biego,

(33 (-0363) adrtsed ohe was benditog the rental

ed the reat-

dones at 3363 Atias Stzeot.:

She aice statod that tr. and

Kxe. TFLTS had a disogroonont and tos: RAILED left alone for

Konsss City about wo and a hale veels ago.

Sho attongted to

tate the children with her but yas provented tron doing so by

Wr• BAUuS.

io locter 19 reatcing wit rexatiyes la chuse

sts, calttomia, nane me octzess uninowy, snd aoparentty

has tho chiluren Fita BiR:

L0o, Abas yus coutaoted 1a

Hansae City and is

presently under developnent ns a bel and the totoavion of

her vill do poraphrased in this report through the uttlina

*on 01 a

"T" oyabol lancuuch as it is very lilely that $1

(COVER DAGS)

339= 10031

DoCId:32314921

Page

---

## Page 3

SC

92-116

bes dentity becase luom, her valoo as a 30I would be dos

troyed.

Any persinaut intormation of value obtained frow

Ers.

BALFO w111 be formandad to interested agencies by

Letterhead Menor endun.

The Burean to boing kept advised of pertinent

information dovelmed by FO 7370s through tri- #oekty Atrtelo

as west As recaly suzaniod submitted ands? the Crintnal

Eatolzigonce Program,

All information surished by this

sourco 13 being incorporatod into the substantivo case tale

to this diviston.

All offtees which night utilise intorantion re

¿lected in this report should uso extrono care and discre

in order to concenl the source ao that ita value will

• be compronised.

In additton, certain information has been developed

through CO 6436-C and 10 737-0* concerning possible owner

ship of the forte Carto Club and a roco track at

In both inctaaces, a tra. JOSEPH BEOW has a ftaat-

cial association with the locations and a soperate lend hus

been set forth under the title "CHINTHAL INISAZIGNICS PROGRAM -

KANSAS CITY DIVISION for

•the Las Vegas Division, as sell as

the St. Louts,

How orleans and Cleveland offices, to conduct

cortals tavestigatton in relation to the omership of these

locations.

This watter vill not bo desit with in detail in

this report but in view of the fact that it tavolves not only

subjeot bat other Kansas City hoodlue figures and until per

tinoot infornation portaleing directay to CIVIls. 1o developel,

tata intornation will not bo reported in detaii in the CIVELLA

contes of all investientivo sotivity are

boing chancined to the substantive caso file.

The following tafarantion was furnished by SC 737-6*

da 83-23-08 oriolnating at the Original foy & Jobbing Com

pay.

(Converantlos occured betwoon an unknow indivtdual,

071

tonebody juss told un they ask about all of ua muys ta

Vegas,

Charite Turner

(Di), bin mad his brother the

338÷1003!

DocId:32314921

Page

---

## Page 4

92-126

SHEORNANTS:

Re Tol As DOY RUSSOM, Asstatant Jadison County

Prosecuting Attorney, the requeated that his identity be

kept confidential.

Ec To 19 KC 315-0,

whose identity to know to

the Bureau and who furalahed

RICHARDSON.

10z02nation

to ss Mut E.

I T-10 1e IC 737-co, those identity is knew to

the Dureau.

HE 9-14 1s CG 6680-Cs, whoae identity ta know to

tho Bureau.

RC 1-IS AN HES MILDED PAULE, nho furaished

Intonation to Special Agents PAUL A. BORANION and 108%

t. I. Wash os the lsent cifice and who requented that

ney accarty be sept contidential.

IC 1-26 is PCI Mrs. WINIERED DAULES, tho fraished

information to Special Agents GORGE P. LUCKSWOrE and

HARTON C. BIREET and wheee identity 1o

being kept conti-

dential in vien of her development no e FCI.

(COVIA PAGE)

558218830

DocId: 32314921

Page 4

---

