# docid-32293030-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10210-10306

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2713-154, 155

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

EVANS, C. A.

PARSONS

TITLE:

DATE: 04/12/1961

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

CM, DEPORTED, GUATEMALA, FALSE BIRTH CERTIFICATE,

INS, REQ, INFT, WHEREABOUTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/04/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC TTY, NOTE

v9.1

11

---

## Page 2

dio dies

FEDERAL BURERU OF INVESTIGAT.

U.S. DEPARTMENT UP MISHICI

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

APR1 0 1961

TELETYPE

Mr.

Memo loned to Person

TLG:

aut

-Conrad.

DeLoakh

Mr. Evansy:

Mr. Malone_

Mr. Rosen

Ir. Tavel

URGENT

4-10-61 5-22 PM

CST

Mr. Trotter---

FWT

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room.

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI 92-2713

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy..

FROM

SAC, NEW ORLEANS

92-36

1 P

CARLOS MARCELLO, RA ERE NEW ORLEANS TEL AND BUTEL APRIL EIGHT

LAST CONCERNING REQUEST BY LaNS,

NEW ORLEANS, FOR IDENTITY OF

POTENTINE GRIMINAGINFORMANG

NEW ORLEANS PCI RAYMOND ROLLING TO TESTIFY AT HEARING, WASHINGTON,

Do Co, RE MARCELLO. DISTRICT DIRECTOR CLARENCE

• JOHNSON, I&NS,

NEW ORLEANS, ADVISED TODAY HE DOES NOT KNOW DATE AND PURPOSE OF

HEARING. HE SAID HE RECEIVED THIS INFORMATION FROM GENERAL

SWING, HEAD OF TENS, WASHINGTON, IN PHONE CALL APRIL EIGHT.

LAST AND DID NOT ASK GENERAL SWING FOR FURTHER INFORMATION

CONCERNING HEARING. EFFORTS CONTINUING TO LOCATE INFORMANT

SO THAT IENS CAN BE ADVISED APPROPRIATELY, INVESTIGATION TODAY

REVEALS INFORMANT HAS NOT RETURNED FROM TENNESSEE, WHERE HE

WENT TO PURCHASE GAMECOCKS, AND INFORMANT-S BROTHER, CAPTAIN

EARL ROLLING, JEFFERSON PARISH SHERIFF-S OFFICE, DOES- NOT KNOW

HOW TO REACH INFORMANT. INFORMANT WILL BE CONTACTED IMMEDIATELY

UPON HIS RETURN TO NEW ORLEANS AREA AND BUREAU AND LOCAL

I&NS WILL BE ADVISED.

92-2713-155

IND

6-23 PM OK FBI WA RAM

TU DISC M

x116

67 APR 27 1961

infous

tot.

---

## Page 3

New Oreans, desires

identity of PCI Roll

→, who furnished. *

information to Bureatin 1958 that Marcello

was a citizen of Guatemala.

Efforts being

made to determine date and nature of heari, !

in Washington.

---

## Page 4

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

NITED STATES GOVE LENT

Memorandum

TO

Mr. Parsons

FROM

C.

A. Evans

CARLOS MARCELLO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

dee

DATE:

4/12/61

Tolson .

Parsons

Mohr _

"Belmont

Callahan

Contad

ve Loach

Evans -

Malone

Rosen -

Tavel -

Trotter -

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy -

SUBJECT: O

PURPOSE

To furnish background on Raymond'

Rolling,

an informant

of the New Orleans Division, who on 2/7/58 was the first source

to advise that Carlos Marcello, notorious New Orleans racketeer

Afe.

who was deported by Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS)

to Guatemala on April 4, 1961, had obtained a filse Guatemalan

birth certificate.

approx 14:7

DETAILS

As/a result of information developed by Rolling, the FBI

was the first Federal investigative agency to learn that Marcello.

had obtained a fraudulent Guatemalan birth certificate in 1957.

In addition to identifying the individual who actually obtained

these false papers, Rolling also named the Guatemalan attorney and Guater

malan Government officials who assisted in this matter.

information was immediately disseminated to INS by us for assistance

to that agency since it had been attempting to deport Marcello since

1953.

For the past three years, Rolling, who has been employed

as a handbook and barroom operator

in Jefferson Parish, Louisiana,

and is closely associated with several New Orleans top hoodlums,

including Marcello, has furnished considerable information concerning

the southeastern United States.

REG792-2713

1154

Rolling, aged 34, is the younger brother of Captain Earl A.

Rolling, Chief, Criminal Investigations Department, Jefferson Parish

Sheriff's Office. Although he has been associated with the underworld

be is presently empipyed as an investigator

for Jefferson Parish District Attorney, Ryank Langdrige. Accorain!

to FBI Identification Record Number 897352C, he has been fingerprinted

for applicant matters only and does not have

an arrest for criminal

violations.

1 - Mr. Rosen

APR 26 1961

TLG: Swb

(7)

7 APR 27

1961

---

