AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1
DocId: 32287814 Page 1

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-10198-10090

HQ

62-9-29-539

Date:

4/28/201

Document Information

FBI
SAC, MM
DIRECTOR, FBI

06/02/1962
3

CIP, INQUIRY, GAMBLING ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

09/25/1998

INDEFINITE ,


Ir

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

I

FBI

: bate, 6/2/62
AIRTEL

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via AIRMAIL
(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

f mai MIAMI (92-515) (P)

Cen mmtnat INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DARIUS WASHINGTON JOHNSON, PCI, on 5/21/62,
advised that JULIUS KAPLAN, "front man" for ANTHONY
RICCL (Miami File 92-112) and associated with RICCI
and FRANK DIOGUARDI (Miami File 92-405), in the operation
of the Casa Maria Restaurant and Lounge, Dade County,
Fla., made inquiry as to whether he and his wife would be
interested in staying at the Lido Beach Motel, 17301
“Collins Avenue, since there is an indication the motel
is to be sold. JOHNSON and his wife operate the lounge at
this motel. He stated KAPLAN expressed interest in
the lounge and motel.

MM 509-C on 5/22/62, advised that JACK FRIEDLANDER
(Miami File 162-93) who operated the blackjack and poker

C3>- Bureau (AM)
2- Miami |.

RFF/gtj REGIA ;
(5) ~ Ly |
— a 68:9-99 pt
iat ool fo JUN EA § 1962
nay Vv; 4a Sent ] : yA

Pi
8 $ JU NSveQofQGDr in Charge See

DocId:32287814 Page 2


MM 92-515

games at the Patio Bridge Club, Miami Beach, Florida,

the past winter season is almost broke and in view of the
decrease in activities at Miami Beach, FRIEDLANDER secured
a job as pit boss at the Golden Nugget Hotel and Gambling
Casino, Las Vegas, Nevada, for $50.00 a day. He said
FRIEDLANDER left Miami Beach for Las Vegas on 5/15 or 16/62.

This source also advised that SAM SCHWARTZ,
owner of Wolfie's Restaurant, Lincoln and Alton Roads,
Miami Beach, is going to retire and is in the process of .
selling the restaurant to JERRY BROOKS and CHARLES TOURINE
(Miami File 92-106). He said he was told TOURINE's name
may be kept in the background and that BROOKS may act as
the "front" for TOURINE. He advised the papers have not
been signed so far, as they are attempting to "iron out"
some minor details which came up.

In addition, he advised that ROBERT GOLDBERG,
aka Bob Russell (Miami File 165-23) an employee of AL
_MONES (Miami File 92-386) left the Miami area for the
“Boston area, where he will allegedly operate as a bookmaker
H at the Narragansett Race Track. He learned that RUSSELL's
apartment at Miami Beach has been taken over by AL MONES
where he is operating as a bookmaker.

MM 509-C also related that JOE MORRISON and his
- assistant HARRY LANDOW, are still operating as bookmakérs
at the Normandy Isle Golf Club, Miami Beach, for the
MICHAEL COPPOLA (Miami File 92-101) Group. He said he
also heard MORRISON has a piece of the R. H. Berrick
f Appliance Company, North Miami Beach. He also said he

1 -2-

DocId:32287814 Page 3
