# docid-32324514

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90029-10006

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 100-407808-1

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection bet ae 19gg

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45907 Date:

64-11-2018

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MI

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

12/24/1953

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

*KENNETH D. HEITKAMP

THOMAS R. PEASNER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF USA

COMMENTS :

MEMO;

v9.1

HH 45907

4

DooId: 32324514

Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO, 64

SEPHANTY IRTORMATIE - CONFEMAL

tina resi visionis

Office Memorändum

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: December 24, 1953

FROM L

SAC, MILWAUKEE

SUBJECT:

(200-0)

SED ASSED BY 5668 SL0/1SE

20.5-7-95

grill.

RECAP - K

PART II

UNCLASS PER INFIR

LET. DTD

By letter dated November 24, 1953 It. COL, GORDON D, 4-2/-98.

Headquarters, Chicago, enclosed the record of the interrogation of

from the Army Of October 23, 1953 at Fort Sheridan, illinois and his.

home address is

The Subject

is not considered a security risk by the Army»

EK Act 6 (3)

Pertinent paragraphs from the Subject's Army interroga-

tion are set forth:

"Subject was captured by unknown forces on 12 February

195] when his unit was overrun at Changhong, South Korea.

released at Kaesong on 22 August 1953. He is 22 years of age,

caucasian, and has had 10 years of education.

The Phase II inter-

rogation was conducted on 29 August 1953 aboard the USNS General

John Pope.

Bayes

JENAS

were members of the

Pease Committee.

These men were selected by the Chinese and then

"voted on the members of the company. KoREtt

age 26, home address Texas, and

CpLa

age 29,

Thome address '

Texas visited with the camp

officials frequently during 1952.

was later transferred to

Camp #3 and

was assigned to the camp band. The following men

were the most recent,

reauent visitors to camp headquarters and

their

visits were voluntary:

W.VA

KOREA CHiNA

réceived better

treatment than the other prisoners.

RB: ecs

COPIES DESTROYISD

Dallas

AUA 2.71988

New Orleans

Pittsburgh

3 JA

COPIES

J04

COLORD

407808

DECE 28-1453: 507

REGISTERED MAILA SCORES MAD

FLING AND/OR DELIVERY

DATED 410201

se Curiosi

GEND INDENTIAL

HH 45907 DocId:32324514 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MI 100-0

received special instruction

and training.

apparently believed

in the 'true value' of Communism and Subject believes that these men did

not support Communism merely to gain personal favors.

These men voluntarily

attended study group meetings.

collaborated with camp

authorities by supplying answers to any and all questions the Chinese had.

acted as informants and reported

all incidents to the camp authorities as a matter of

loyalty to the camp

officials.

voluntarily chose to remain

with the Chinese and had no desire to return to the United states.

men were very friendly with the Chinese.

(3)

had pro-communist leanings

and reflected these leanings by applying themselves and cooperating with the

Chinese.. Subject does not know of any pro-communists among other united

Nations prisoners.

"Subject hates the word Communism and what it stands for,

and does not think that it would work in the United States.

He states that he

never listened to the lectures given while he was a prisoner and does not

know what Communism really is or the reason that it won't work in the United

States.

"All of the cantured versonnel of Subject's platoon have not

been repatriated.

United States Army

personnel, voluntarily chose to remain with the Chinese and were

last seen

at Camp #1. "

The following addresses were obtained from the diary of

a FOW

and Subject of another case, which may be of

value to the

Bureau:

-2-

HH 45907 DocId:32324514 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MI 100-0

JFK Act 6 (3)

No further investigation will be conducted at Milwaukee UACB.

same yo

N08)

HH 45907

DocId: 32324514 Page 4

---

