# docid-32424580

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

• RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ARMY

198-10008-10091

CALIFANO PAPERS

i44 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 56829 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

MULTIPLE

CUBA: AN ECONOMIC REPORT FOT THE YEAR 1962

DATE: 00/00/1963

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS - CUBA

CUBAN ECONOMIC PROSPECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: REVIEW BY BRITISH GOVERNMENT

COMMENTS: Califano Papers, Box 1, Folder 20. Economic report on Cuba for 1962 from the British Government.

Summary of article prepared by British Embassy.

JFKRANIAN

epartment of the Army EO 1352

7 Declassify = Exclud

• Exempt

Authority.

NO STATE OBJECTION

O DERLASSIFICATION

BY MIL DATEOI/15/16

v9.1

HH 56829

DooId: 32424580

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DOD

CONZTDENTIAL

CUBA

An Economic Renost for the Year 1962

1.

GENERAL

1362 was designated the Year

of Planning" and although

references had been

made by Fidel Castro

üu the plan for 1962,

plan was made public.

However,

• number of sections

of a plan were circulated within the

ministries at times during the year, by

purchases abroad of certain of

the state monopolies

rogulated,

aithough modified to a large extent in view of the

Shortage

of foreign exchange.

2.

economic situation generally had deteriorated

lutter half of 1961 and on February

16 a three man commission

was established with the tiüle of Direction of National Economy.

Minister of

is and carlos it head of the wat

Institute for Agrarian

Reform (INRA),

and its purpose was to

inprove economic activity at all levels.

The food situation continued to worsen: in the early paut

of the year and

in March it was

to introduce

& system of rationing

which still remains in

distribution

of supplies was

somewhat uneven,

leading

in one

case to public disturbances

improved during the

The shortage was to

some extent alleviated by supplies which

caine from

the Soviet Union and which were negotiated in a

special additional agreement in the summer of 1952.

year's end. the food situation tended to vary from place to

place and

was usually better in the towns, particularly Havana,

than

in

the provinces..

4.

The worsening

of the 100d situation

was due partly to

lack of local produce as well as imported food,

and the need to

improve local production led to additional measures being taken

in

the agricultural field.

The most significant step

was to

allow more freedom of

action to the small

farmer operating in

the

the

private sector.

Medicines were also in short

supply,

but

situationwas considerably improved by

the provision by groups

in the U.S.A. of medicines to the value of $60 million in

exchange for prisoners in Cuban hands.

In the early part oi 1992 further changes

he organisation of those departments

with foreign

The existing three major state enterprises were broken

down into 12 autononous departments

each dealing with a

particular branch of impori export trade.

were expanded

in December by the addition. of a further three.

6.

At the end of the year the President declared that the

previous

four-year period had been the stage during

which

conditions had been created for the construction of socialism

in Cuba.

The situation had been reached in which 90% of

/industrial

CONFIDENTIAI

HH. 56829. DocId:32424580

Page 2

---

## Page 3

-2-

CONEIDENEIAI

industrial production came from the state sector;

wif the arable land was farmod by a socialist

about

systen;

foreign trade was channelled through

state

monopolies

and

the majority of large scale

internal

commerce was in

the

socialist sector.

He also declared that

in the four yoars

since 1958 the economy had expanded by 30% representing a

yoorly increment of

between 6 and 7%.

it the

some time un-

employmont had been reduced by over 50% to a figure of

220,000.

7.

The Prosident also

declared that it was still the aim to

transfer the Cuban

economy

from one which was

basically

egrarian to one which was agrarian-industrial.

He did not

envisage that this could be done within

the

next three years

but

ha

regarded as a major task the need to increase agriculturai

production both to ensure sufficient

food for national require-

ments and to make some produce

available for export.

8.

By the end of 1962 there

providing

bloc aid and

was

nothing to

suggest that,

technicel

assistance was forthcoming,

the

country

was

in any

way nest

to economic collapse.

For some

people

the deterioration meent

a relative reduction in standards

which

at the same time remained much higher than in many Latin

American countries.

Certain sectors of the population,

particularly the youth and

the Armed Forces

or thought they were,

were better off

then their counterparts in pre-revolutior

Supplies of

perticularly trectors,

seen arcivine in large quantibion, giving an impression that a

set-back was liable to be temporary only.

The greatest shortege

remained that of technical skill of evon modest scale:

situation which the Government is tackling energetically by a

widespread educational programme and the introduction of a basic

"minimum technical"

standard.

II

FINANCE

The but 196

The budget for

announced on

January 2,

was described

as being a balanced budget and allowed for income

and

expen iture

of 1,853 million pesos.

The breakdown of the budget did

not

fully account for all expenditure, particularly in

the military

sector,

which must have been high.

The largest items mere

$696 million for the development of the national economy anc

9551 millions for cultural and social services.

The income

to meet this expenditure was to be derived principally from state

trading organisations (1,045 million pesos

.) .

'It secms unlikely

tloat

this budget was indeed balanced,

since

at the end of the

year the

budget,

President spoke of the deficitory nature of the national

due to heavy

from

expenditure.

He also referred to the low

return

above,

provide

state

enterprises which.

as

shown

were to

the

major income

for

the budget.

The

President also

said that current

economic development,

and

that

for

years to

coice,

will be

not only by

long-term

credits but by

based paine pally on external finangy this he neare

commercial imbalance.

credit of one form or another fröm the countries of the communist

b1oc.

110

CONFIDENTIAL

56829

DocId:32424580 Page 3

---

## Page 4

-3-

CONRIDENCIAL

10.

Cost of Living.

in inflationary situation has existed throughout 1962,

although public services and rents have bean reduced by

Governmental decree.

This inflation has boen described as a

inroblem of supplies" and has boon declared officially in be

ne to he reaction in thi number of unemployed,

wages and

in the cost of livine in othcr

doctors

mentioned above.

Stato expenditure has been directed

on education

2000s

public health and defence and the import consuner

for sale

to the public has been severely limited.

shortage of lood led to a rice in prices of the unrationed foodo

(excopt for thor at controlled prices) and the cost of mois

in restaurants generally rose.

Prices rose also in the clothind

sector until the nationalication of these shops in December.

There is concealed inflation in virtually all sectors in the

reduction in quality of goois.

The Government also announced

successful culmination

the savings campaign.

he year deposits would stand at 524 million pesos, representing

an increase of 206 million pesos.

One of the aims of

savings campaign is to combat the inflation referred to nbove.

Figures for note circulation and currency

roserves are not

available.

However, the Cuban National Benk has still not

repaid a loan of $25

millions from the International Monetary

due in 1959,

and has requested

a further period of scace

extending to 1964.

13:

Juring March silver coins of 1 peso

20

60 ets. 40 cts.

25,

and 10 cts. were withdrawn

and replaced by copper-nickel.

Figures of coinage affected were not published.

III ACRICULTURE

In January Fidel Castro resigned from the Presidency of

the National Institute for Agrarian Reform (INRA) which occasioned

at the time since he had personally been closely

with the land reform,

which had been the main platforn

of the revolution:

succeeded by Carlos Rafael Rodrigues.

It was not a good year for Cuban agriculture

at loast as

far as production was concerned.

Government officials

concerned with agriculture acinowledged thot agricultural rield

was very low:

the sugar yield being

one of the lowest among

sugar producing countries, acluded the drought,

and that in maize and beans

cqually

The reasons given

lack of labour,

farmers,

•i technical knowledge insufficient best control and

shortage of trained and skilled

techniques,

or lack of

In addition

Government referred

to lack of socialist organisation

tendency

beliove that it was enough to draw up a plan and

it would then fulfil

itself.

The political espect of the problem was described by the

President

being the most significant.

He declared

that the

adverse effect of the drought should not be exaggerated:

more

/important

CONPIDENDIAL

HH: 56829

DocId: 32424580 Page

---

## Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

important were the orgenisational problemo of socialie?

acciculture and the rolationship with the private sector.

3o lack of orgunisation me attributed to lack o?

political direction, which thus contributed to the reduction

in productivity,

17.

The drought in the early part of the year was cortoinly

severe.

It was later announced that a group

of Russian

vator

eagineers were surveying the country

to advise

on

water

conservancy.

and

Subsequently a Hydraulic Institute was set up,

also an Institute

for the study of soils.

i8.

One cause of low production was the repression exercisod

by provincial authoritios on small farmers still working in the

private sector, and renresenting 55% of agricultural land-

holding.

encourage the small former,

who is organised

in

the National Association of Small Farmers (ANAP) a relaxation

of casures regarding the killing of animals on a snall socle,

and disposal of produce was introduced.

The measures were

rogarded as a temporary expedient only, and the aim to socialioc

all agriculture remains..

vevertheless

it is recognised

within

the Government

that une lack of incentives is aù the root

of the problem in

the

private sector,

but there are differences

of opinion in the wey

the prokiem should be solved.

The co

operatives were

declared as having

been a failure

and it wee

announced that they would be converted

into people's farms.

At tho same time stens were announced to put all state larms on

sound finencial and economic basis.

19.

Agriculture - Sugar.

The year began with a gloomy forecast by the Minister for

Industries that the sugar crop for 1962 would be poor:

He spoke

particularly of cane

of the labour shortage in the industryformation of voluntery

and his remarks preceded the

brigades to do this work.

171 senior Government officials from

Fidel Castro downwards subsequently spent some time in the fields

outting cane.

On the completion of the suger crop the grinding

went

on for approximately a month longer than usual owing to the

severe drought in April and May?

it was finally announced

that apoduction of 4.8 million tons had been achieved.

20.

In december,

the Minister of Industries again syoke frankly

about the situation in the sugar industry

and declared that the

crop for 1965, for which preparation had been made during 1962,

would be poor.

The major causes were again the shortage of

1ab0U3,

particularly cane cutters.

He said that designs for

cane

cutting machines hnd been completed and targets

for the

construction of large numbers of these during 1962 had been set,

but it was now clear that these targets were unattainable.

- He

also indicated

that enthusiasm of voluntary

workers did not moke

up

their lack of skill;

indeed inexperienced workers could

cause

damage which would take years to repair.

Because of this

proposed

that in future voluntary workers should work bohind

the

cane cutter

and not alongside him,

i.e.

in less skilled

jobs.

Considerable new planting had

the Minister added

been

unnecessary

in

1962 as no

serious

replanting had taken

place for 10 years.

121

CONFIDENTIAL

HH 56829

DocId: 32424580 Page 5

---

## Page 6

-5-

COLPIDENCIL

21.

Asriculture - Cotton.

The first planting of cotion on a significant commercial

scale cook place

in

1962 following pilot schomes in preceding

20:28.

The harvest-was commered in Novembar and it

had bee

congloted by

the end

of

the your.

the crop would yield

20

It was officially otatod

that

Dot notrie tong or rew cotton

or about

1255 4o5oe

tons of fibro.

was hoped

that this would

cover

national requironents and

thet it

would make a

roving of some 12 million proos in import costs.

2?.

sericulture - Coffee:

Final production has not bean stated but it was corimeted

by the government to be 1.3 million quintale of which oves one

million had been harvested.

23.

Robecco:

Figuree

are not available but the crop has been describer

by aa ofricial as "poor".

This apolies particularly to tho

production in the province of Pinar del Rio, where most of the

wrappor leaf is grown.

IV

MISHERIES

24.

Under the terms

agreement signed on September 25 in

Hevana, a fishing port

is to

be constructed in Havana

to serve

the Soviet fishing fleet and Cuban fishing vessels.

The cost,

between 12 and 13 million pesos will be borne by the uson ano

ropaid in the form of services by cuba.

The Russian vessels

vere to supply 2,000 tons of fish during 1962 and 15, 000 tons in

1963.

SHOPPING

In February the cargo vossel Sierra Maestra of about

The vessel

VI

INDUSTRY

26.

Figures for industrial out-put and copacity are not

available and it is

a matter for speculation

whether the decrease

wrising from lack of

spare parts,

technical knowledge and apathy,

ame significantly outweighed

by,

or even offset, such

new

development

as is being

achieved.

27.

Most now factory development lies in the

Iuture, but s

mill for processing Konet

thus reducing

the need to import jute

for sacks

in

the sugar industry is being brought into production.

Factories

now being prepared in the communist countries include

a diesel engine factory

machines

in

Last Germany

in Czechoslovakia china:

cement and seving

textile mill -

bottles,

plate

£1085.

steel and tools

Poland.

The Soviet

Union will construct

2 factory to make

spare parts noù available as a result of

and have

¿merican centrictions in Oriente province supply a now steel

mill for construction

/28

CONFIDENTIAL

HH 56829

DocId: 32424580

Page 6

---

## Page 7

-6--

CONDI DENDIAL

26.

Industry - Minina.

Informavion on the production of minerals is Incling.

anduction of manganese for uctallurgical.

purposes and

nonganese dioxide is carriod out at Bucycito near Bayano

i mani,

and Cambute.

Thrue mines at

Cordera

quinto,

Boston and

are knows as

the Dl Cristo unit.

Production at

Jueyeito is 30 tons daily,

on a laboratory, workshops and

wesehouse are being

construesed there.

Chronite is produced

at Cavo del Medio and is exported without being processca.

•Peloper and Kaolin are producod at Holguin and Victoria de 1a3

Tonns

respectively.

Prodnetion is for internal use only.

VIII

OIL

29.

the Cuban Govarnment announced that by the end of

Novembor 3, 250, 000 tons

crude oil had been processed

which e

further 400

oo0 would be added by the end of the voar.

i refining plant with a copacity of 4, 200 gallons daily was

completed in November on the outskirte of Havana.

It will

notine home producod oil.

30.

It is the intention of the Cuban Government to mine oil

and an exhibition of Rumanian

equipment was held

in the

summer.

Whilst such production might prove too

uneconomic by

woten standers reducing capenditure abroad.

are believed to favour

& means

IX

FORBIGN TRADE

31.

A further reorganisation of the Departmonts of the

Ministry of Foreign Trade was carried out

in january and lebruary.

The

existing three state enterprises handling imports,

exports

trensport and freight were superseded by

14 orgenisations

so which at the end of the year a further 3 were added.

Thus,

comnodities.

52.

During

the year Cuban trade with Western countries

continued to

foll off.

The reasons were

political

in

that the

Cubans prefer whenever possible to deal

with the countriod of

the communist bloc and

Financial due to the acute shortage

forcign exchange which lasted throughout the year and which

becane more acute towards the oad.

In some cases the Cubans

been obliged to deal with the Western countries either

brogue the goods are not arcilable in the communist bloc "ther

is frequently the

delivory dates are unacceptable.

is aloo evidence that

have

ocecsionally nech obliged to pay a higher price for an

cases, condorve foreign currency the dubans

acticle

or poorer quality from a bloc country and at the same

Time

to accent slightly less favourable delivery terms.

33.

The reduction in trode was not only due to Cuban

initiative.

in leoruary,

President

Kennedy announced

the

casation of imports from Cuba

the United States which

/affected

CONFIDENTIAL

HH 56829 DocId:32424580 Page 7

---

## Page 8

-"-

airectod particularly the croan tobacco industry whose

woorts had prociously boen running ou

about 34 million

dallazo per yood.

The incrion discouragement of shippins

7a. Cuba

further inhibited

affocting particularly

Jopanese.

Phe precise tont of the restrictions, whic: the

americens intonded to imoso ind not been detomineathy the

ond of the year.

An importent ottect of those restrictiona

come with the politicol crisis at the end of October when

ocrgoes

en route to

Cube were,

in many comes, discherged in

nonte elsonhore in the Caribbean.

Prade protocols were nigned during 1962 with

the

Instora Suropoon-bloc countzios and with

North Vietnon and

Morth

Kored.

Procise figures of these trade agreements

were

riven

in

the

case of

the USSR which began at 700 million dollars,

hub which in the summer

WaS

increased to 750 millions.

This

roguuably included supply of extra food for Cuba.

Others

ircluded Hungery 20 miltions end Bulgaria 24 million pesos.

Trade

agreements were also signed with Spain end Chile,

in the latter

cene involving a barter deal ageinst 50, 000 tons of sugar.

35.

There

is no satisfactory explanation in the trode

aareements for the large volume of militory couipment which was

celivered to Cuba during 1962 and included missiles of various

types.

36.

mde math the united kunided kingdon was allowed to

lapse on our

initiative on the grounds that it was unrelistic

to continue it in present trading conditions.

In practice,

the existing quotes for the

import of Cuben products. were

mintained and to this extent the trade agreement continued to

remain

in force.

37.

The Cubang were

apparently unable to fill their zur quota

and this has now been merged with

the dollar quota available

vo other exporting countries, particularly lexico.

Figures for

the first ten months of

the veer show that compared with the

corresponding period of

1961 United Kingdom exports

dropped by

40% and imports rose

The actual figures are:-

196

IO OctObes 31:

1962

Io October 31

u.X. exports

€3, 6811, 986

€2,214,372

U.X.

imports

54,319,304

€6,712,935

The increase in United Kingdon Imports is accounted for largely

by sugar and

sugar preparations, amounting to some s2 million

in the

figures given above..

38.

It appears to be the Cuban

desire to place their trade

with a given country in balance

and their trade agreements with

Destern bloc countries are expressed in

practice they are receiving from the soeinlist

countrios credits

in the

form of commercial

imbalance of trade

under the torins

of multilateral payment agreement are allowed

a credit of

11,405, 000 pesos.

This agreement was signed

in 1960 and

/published:

CONTIDENTIAL

MH 56829 • DocId: 32424580

Page 8

---

## Page 9

-8-

CONTIDENTIAL

mublished in Cuba in 1962.

integory,

It involves agora crecho lovelin.

Cast Germany, Mongolia, Polend, Rumania, USSR and

INCORNAL TRADE

30.

Throughout the year the process

of taking over priv.

companies continued.

Some Pirms were able to apply for

closure

owing to

lacle of supplies and were able to liguirite

the normal

way.

Others pessed into state control

through

"intervention"

in which a

Jovorment appointee took chuge.

further major

step

towardo placing all

trade in the houds of

Prie

state was taken.

in

Decombor when retail shops dealing in

clothes and hardware wore nationalised.

The mojor port

of internal trade is now in the hands of

state controlled

organisations.

CONTIDENTIAL

HH: 56829 DocId: 32424580

Page 9

---

## Page 10

DOD

(1011/63)

BRITISE EMBASSY,

HAVANA.

February 7, 1963.

CONFIDANCIAL

I enclose a brief summary of an interview published in

Revolucion of January 21 with José Matar

the National Co-Ordinator

of the committees for the Defence of the Revolution.

2.

This article gives an interesting picture of the widespread

and comprehensive nature of

the activities of these Committees,

though Sr. Matar's enthusiastic description sounds a little

comical in parts ("We are working fundamentally in recreation.

We have organised

sack races

• • "").

you well know,

all-pervasive

organisation

rhe Committees are the

"and possibly

most effective of the various

organisations as a means for

keeping the people in line behind their leaders.

The individuals

who comprise

wield considerable power at the grass

level end it is not unusual to

see letters in the complaints

columns of the ne spapers stating, for example,

that a Committee

had refused to issue the necessary paper sanctioning

& doctor's

recommendation for extra mill or food supplies for

an invalid.

For some time one has heard the figure of

one Cuban in twelve

mentioned as being a member of one or other of the mass organisations

but if Matar is to be believed menbership of the Defence Committees

alone accounts for more than one Cuban in six.

He states that there

Committees, comprising 1 million.

You will

also note that the organisation of the national structure of Defence

Committees is being overhauled by a process rather similar to thau.

which

is in use for the selection of members of the new United

Sooialist Party:

1,e. starting with group meetings at the bottom

of the scale and working upwards.

The article gives no indication

as to how, or whether,

the Conmittees of Defence are to be integrated

with the new United Party when the latter comes into being.

wateh-dog organisation they perform a rather different function irom

that of the party, but they seem to be extending their activities

to the point

where some overlap between the two bodies looks likely

to occur.

In the Havana municini area at least,

they have acquired

so many administrative functions,

particularly in connection with the

rationing scheme,

that they cannot be dispensed with unless there ig

sone otner organisation equipped to take over their cole.

Obviously

Metar intends to press ahead with his plans for 1963,

the Year of

Organisation®

4a.: I am sending coptes of this letter to Sutherland in Washington and

cissold in Research Department.

(R.A.C. Byatt)

J.N. Brown, Esgo,

American Department,

Foreign Office.

CONFIDENTIAL

14: 56829

DoCId: 32424580 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Sumnary of an article in "Revclución" for January 21st 1965 based

on an interview with José Matar, National Co-ordinator of the

Cormittees for the Defonce of the Revolution

The creation of the Committees was

proposed oy fidel Castro

on September 28, 1960.

The role of the Committees in the detention of

suspects at the

time of the Playa Girón invasion confirmed

and led to a decision to expand then.

The Cormittees are an invention of the Cuban Revolution and

unique in the entire world.

They "resemble a gigantic united

patriotic

Iront for the defence of the Revolution'and their composition is not

licited by questions of orisin,

occupation, sex, race

e heterogeneous organisation which has fited perfectly into

Cuban character".

1962 was the year or reorgenisation of the Committees.

86,151 wore treated in this way.

H08 CANEMS 477 40074772 1527

removed and working nethods improvod.

meetings at which the reorganisation was discussed and 157,000 new

members resulted fron these meetingo.

The organisation now consiate of a National Directorate and

6 Frovincial Directorates; 147 District Directorates; 3,218 Sectional

Directorates snd 102,500 Committees of Defence, with 1,500,000 members.

Membership of Directorates above the Connittee level is 50,000.

the tine o1 Playo Girón there vere only 7,000 Committees

in Cuba).

AON OF ACTIVERIAS - ROO

There is a National School for Conmittee cadres, where 215

Ipergone are at present studying. The Comnittees have 7,029 Study

Circles, with GT,750 participants.

There are also 945. Circles of

Revolutignary Instruetion with over 16,000 autendance.

The Conmittees have dayed a large part in the ceasus of

urbar: housing.

Up to December10chp they had dealt with sone 249,000

houses throughout the Island.

The Committees are responsible for reporting to the Police

honese wich are abandonea by their orners.

With the

Police and the

Department for Recovery of State Valuables

they have to be present when

the contents of such houdes are listed.

The keys are then handed to

the committee, who are responeible for the house notil it is allocat

enty houses salsa by the treaterom.

They are also rasponsible for the security of

CHILDRE

une Committoes played a tarze tole in the vreparatcry dis-

cursion it meetings throughout the country before the National Culture

congress in Docembers oney have aloo organiscaynde range of cultural

activities.

The Third Congress of Muicipal Education Councils gave

the Cormittees the task of carrying out the census of natriculation

in primary education this is nearly completed and has covered 720,000

children.

42% of a1l...1

1536829 PecTS 32121580 Page 11

---

## Page 12

42% of all hallo of Sogrindonto (Follow-up courses for those

tanght lo read and write during 1961) are in the charge of befence

Committees:

The Committees have also orgonised 8,318 "Circulos Familiares"

( home classes given by visiting teachers) and have played the major

role in the reorganisation of school councils throughout the country.

5,236 councils have been reorganised.

PUBLIC HOMWI

The Committees played a large role in organising the various

maso inmontuation campaigns held during

They have nearly 1,300

popular schools of Fublic Health in which 20,000 Comnittee

receiving courses which will finish by the end of 1963.

They have organised health metings to which 1, 824, 000 people

have attended.

This figure is to be Increased in 1963.

VIGILANCE:

"I'he sense of revolutionary vigilance amongut the people

has been enormoucly increased." At least 1,000,000 men and

women take

their turn it night-guard duties.

During the recent crisis, the

instructions|vere unnecessary.

Every one new beforehand what they had

to do...

POFULAE DESENCE:

organising sanitary brigades.

SUPPLIDS

The Committees! chief battle in 1962 was in the organising

supplies.

They conducted a census of consumers in Greater Hevana

period of seven days and issued 50, 000 ration books.

VOLUINLARY LABOUR:

Amongst other things, the Committees have collecued more than

a ton of used stamps and more

than 6,000,000 empty bottles.

Activities

of this kind are aid to have resulted in a saving of $287,987.

The

Committees have recruited 162,000 membors of voluntary labour brigades

for hervesting various crops.

SPORES AND BEORPATION:

Nothing outstanding mentioned.

THE PEACE FRON

Pointe".

"Dor us peace is represented by the defence of fidel's Five

Meiss meetings from this these have been organised.

WEAKNE

There is a lack

of cadres, pirticularly at the intermediate

levels

this sometimes leads to distortion of instructions by the

time thoy reach base levels, but ideas are being studied to

renedy this.

Tasks for

17 56829 29010: 32424580 Page 12

---

## Page 13

TASKS BOR 1953:

These

are ericcagerly the iuprovement of the orgenicatior

on the lines of "democratic centralitation":

struggle against sectarisu

and those who want to give all the orders themselves.

Carnete are

to be issued to all menders

o1 Defence Connitttes.

A Netional

Congress

of Defenco Connittees ja to

bo hold after the firet six nonths of the

Dach Committee is to

elect its own representative to the Congress.

300, 000 members of

the Committees are to take courses

instruction in the form of three months of night classes,

or revolutionary

the

"Tundamentalo of Socialisn in Cuba", the

studying

"Communist. Manifesto"

Castro'e peeches and material relevant to the rork of the Comittees.

56829

0000d30242-580

Pay

---

