# docid-32300082

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

• 5/7/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10226-10362

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-265

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/12/1961

'PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, B/F INT, GAMBLING ACT, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

- RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

DooId: 32300082

Page 1

396

---

## Page 2

FD-36' (Rey: 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

6/12/61

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

. AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

FROM:

SAC

CHICAGO (92-349)

--ALL INFORMATION. CONTAINED

HEREIVIS UNCLASSIRED

SAMUEL M.

AR

GIANCANA, aKa.

DATE 4-20-34: BY SPS

Rebuairtel to Chicago, 6/9/61.

Approved:

C C = Wick®

CG T-19 is an operator of a Las Vegas; Nevada,

restaurant, and is close to JOSEPH PIGNATELLO, à close associate

Of GIANCANA. (Las Vegas PCI ANDREW FAVA).U

CG I-24, no longer in Chicago, and whose whereabouts

are unknown, was formerly the "public relations" director

of the. Cloister Inn,

a Chicago Near North Side nightclub.

She was a girl friend of several Chicago nightclub operators

and minor hoodlums, and became associated with. GIANCANA.

reliability at this point, however,

is unknown, even though

she has furnished reliable information in the past. u

CG T-29 is current PCI DOMINIC SCALZETTI. He is

employed as an outside investigator and collector for the

Central National Bank, Chicago. He claims to have grown up

MARSHALL CAIFANO, SAM GIANCANA, et al.

He has furnished reliable information in the past regarding

JOSEPH GLINCO, and others in the Labor Union Field, in

addition to GIANCANA and CAIFANO.

He has stated an intense

fear of the individuals, and has

stated that he does not desire

that his identity or cooperation

to the Bureau become known

for fear of reprisal to he and his. family.U

REC- 50

-

Bureau

2

Las Vegas

• (92-308)

92-3171-265

1 - Chicago

RRH: JEH

O JUN LA 1961

(6)

Sent.

Special

Agent in Charge

fiftee

DocId: 32300082

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-349

CG T-30 is former PCI GLADYS EBLE, who resides

in an apartment building adjacent to the Armory Lounge,

Forest Park, Illinois.

She is only slightly acquainted

GIANCANA, however, knows him by sight.

She has been in a

position

to observe and furnish the identities of automobile

license numbers in

and near the Armory Lounge. U

CG I-31 is PCI HENRY H. HODL, who until recently

was employed as card dealer and "lookout"

at the Riviera

Lounge, Niles, Illinois, which is an operation of GIANCANA

through his lieutenant, ROCCO POTENZO.

He has been extremely

reluctant to furnish information; however, that which he has

furnished has proved to be reliable. U

CG T-36 is a former PCI who was employed in the

kitchen of MEO's Norwood House Restaurant, a one time hoodlum

hangout. His whereabouts are now unknown. U

CG T-37 is former PCI MICHAEL GALLAGHER, who at

one time was employed by MEO's, Villa Venice Restaurant,

Wheeling, Illinois.

The information he furnished, although

limited, was considered to be reliable. U

CG T-50 is former PCI TONY HORTON, a Chicago

Bondsman, Negro, who was in a position to furnish information

relating to the

activities of another Bondsman; IRVING WEINER,

known to be closely associated with the hoodlum element.

His information was known to be very reliable.u

CG T-68 is PCI GERARD C. "HAT" MURRAY, an old

time Chicago bookmaker who was recently severely beaten by

Syndicate hoodlums in what turned out to be a successful

attempt to bring him into the "syndicate" regarding his book-

making activities. Although he is still a current Pel, the

fact that he has "gone to the other side" makes his current

reliability questionable, although the information he furnished

proved to be reliable. U

CG T-70 is PCI BENJAMIN JULIUS HIRSCH, an old time

Chicago confidence man who has a long record of arrests for

larceny, forgery, etc. He was in an excellent position to

furnish

ane nation so are va

information regarding bookmaking wire services, and

at one time was symbol number 5373-C.

This matter was

placed

in a pending inactive status until recently in view of a Civil

Suit which HIRSCH brought for false arrest from a Bureau appre-

hension in 1953: U

- 2 -

DocId: 32300082 Page 3

---

