# docid-32555614

## Page 1

-posit ger, 214-792

FBI

CONFIDENTIAL

Date:

5/13/76

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Precedence)

TO:

FROM:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DIRECTOR, FBI

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT."/

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

LEGAT, LONDON (163-4884) (P)

SUBJECT:

MURDER OF BEATRICE

GOID enCl

+

BIDDY

GolD

Enclosed for each recipient is

dated 4/26/76, classified "CONFIDENTIAL,

are copy of a report?

eceived from

Detective Chief Inspector DONALD GIBSON,

riminal Investiga

tion Department, New Scotland Yard (NSY), London, England.

London files contain no references identifiable

with VINCENT DE MARCO and MICHAEL MILLER.

According to London files, DINO CELLINI is the

subject of Bufile 92-12474.

The most recent pertinent infor-

mation in London files regarding CELLINI is an LHM dated

3/31/71 at Miami, Florida.

Miami Office is requested

comply with desires

of NSY and fully identify VINCENT DE

MARCO and MICHAEL MILLER. C

and furnish any available pertinent information regarding

these individuals.

Please insure that records of Miami

Police Department are reviewed.

1163-42433-1

REC 44737219-474

26

5 MAY 2X 1976

Bureau (Encs. - 2)0v

1 - Foreign Liaison Un

(2 - Miami)

2 - London

ICH 43

(1 - LON 92-66, CELLINI)

WAK: eim

(7)

811194

AIRTELDeclassity on:

15/76

Approved: 9

Special Agent in Charge

DEC 2-7 1976 CMT

DocId: 32555614

Page 1

Sent

_ M

Per

CD: 1975.0 - 590-992

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 2

tie Tim?

CONFIDENTIAL

LON 163-4884

regarding Did alL anion dan be diesentated to e)

Expeditious handling would be greatly appreciated.

"This communication contains areuestfor investigati

received from " win remand, anoneyand shrul!

own inven

receive louista

cerguly determines

by the manner in which this -fa di load is handled."

-12 -

CONFIDENTIAL

143-4243301

DocId: 32555614

Page 2

---

## Page 3

C.1/7

Cecial Reports

"Special Report

SUBJECT

MURDER OF

BEATRICE GOLD

Reference to Papers

OR 201/75/253

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE& L/ 24 SYS&MACGAI

DocId: 32555614

Page" 3

@ENFIDENTLIL

• METROPOLITAN POLICE

CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION DEPARTMENT.

Now Scotland Yard,

26th day of

April

1976

1.

Detective Chief Superintendent

The purpose of this report is that a request

be made

to

the

Federal Bureau of Investigation, via

Mr W. Kisch their representative at the Embassy of the

United States of America, for certain confidential

enquiries to be made relative to a contract murder

committed in this Country on 8th September, 1975.

Briefly, the details of the above are that

at approximately 5.15 pollo on the day in question,

Mrs Beatrico (Biddy) GOLD, aged 17 years, was in the

basement office of her business premises situated at

361 Gosve11 Road, London, when she received fatal

gunshot wounds to the head and body.

Enquiries commenced and as a result

the following two person's were arrested and charged

with murder :-

(a) •Errol Clive HEIBNER, born noth

La Capatorn, South Africa, a painter and

decorator by trade, residing at 78 Lerovre1

Na3is, Bow, tondon, and

+ 43-3537 1508

(b)

RODOrtO ROSA-TAUZZA (mown as Albort ROSS)e

of Italian extraction, but, born in London

on Ist November, 1922, a so called flooring

contractor, but, who, in reality has lived

039. his

- 13-124-33

proceeds of crime for

---

## Page 4

18.0

nichiel acon nilter

<B- 3-29-40, Brorklipe)

5/u5 = 150-3462 de

1 :0-54-26-11

l-31?*

Vincent:

i Callini

.M.P.74(E)

ONFIDEN.

-2-

many years and up to the time of his arrest

was residing. at 168, Rowley. Gardens, Harringay

London. It is known that Heibner was the man

who physically murdered. Mrs Gold and Rossi,

was the middle man who made the arrangements

and supplied the gun.

Both defendants have made verbal and written

admissions of their guilt and have quite clearly stated

this was a contract murder, however, Rossi will not

and, it would appear, leibner cannot, name those who

wished

this woman's death and paid the £20,000 shared

between

the above two men for the murder, and despite

intense investigation this aspect remains unresolved.

?. In an endeavour to discover the background of

the defendants and their associates details have been

uncovered in respect off American contacts as follows:-

ms Vincen

(a)

Between 20th August and 6th Septemier, 1975,

vincent de MARCO and his wise,

asther

DEMARCO

of 960, liest Avenue, Miana, Flofida, (clephone

number FLA 33139) and Michaci MILlich of

2899 COLliuS Avenue, Miami Beach, Florida.

came to England and stayed at the Hilton

rotel, Parl Lano, London, During this period

they came into contact with Rossi, and the

three

men visited Ireland and purchased a number

of greyhounds for shipment to florida.

(b)

It would appear that Rossi either knew De Marco

and Miller from past visits he made to America

on 6th February, 1966, and later, on 8th March,

1971, bearing a British Citizens passport number

40203 issued in London on 28th January, 1966,

in the name of Roberto FAUZZA, or the contact:

ENCE

was arranged by i

192-46

(c)

Ding CELLII

143-424331

so personal details are uninown.

marco

---

## Page 5

ET

C.1/8°

-3-

42-53 Put at. dist

34

16-3-1100

but, who, it will be remembered, together

with George RAFT was declared persona non

grata in Great Britain some seven or eight

years ago

It would be

of great assistance if confidential

enquiries could be made in the U.S.A with a view to

ascertaining details of the antecedents,

associates,

mode of life etc. of De Marco, Miller and Cellini

and, if possible, the particulars of those with whom

the

De Marco's travelled to England in August, 1975.

ban ison.

Detective

Chief Inspector

(D. Gibson)

CONFIDENTTIAI 143-424331

DocId: 32555614

Page 5

---

