# docid-32299425

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10225-10205

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-114543-233

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

OCONNOR, JAMES J.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 03/05/1965

PAGES:

32

SUBJECTS :

JURE, MR, REPUTATION, CUBAN EXILES, ACA, TACTICS,

FINANCES, CONTACT, US GOVERNMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32299425

25

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 105-6661

MIAMI

it 243

At Miami, Florida

1. Will determine fuller identity of RAUL

GONZALEZ, 3651 S.W. 3rd Street, who 18 the person to

whon JUrE checks are made payable from the JURE account

in Puerto Rico, for deposit to the

JURE account at

Hialeah, Florida. GONZALEZ 18 not an executive member

Of JURE

and his name is seldom noted in Jure activities

despite his obvious

position with respect to JurE

finances.

Will identify pilot RENE DIAZ, who has

been mentioned by MANUEL VARELA CASTRO as a pilot who

was considered for a plan of MANUEL RAY to conduct air

raids against Haiti. Will Interview DIAZ concerning

his affiliation with, and knowledge of, JURE activities.

3. Will Interview WILLIAM "BILLY" CHUS (OT

SCHUSS) • 2468 S. W.

zind Terrace, Mian, who, according

to MM ISI ANGEL YERGO, waS formerly chief of military

operations for JURE, but is no longer associated with

JURE. Will determine from CHUS his current affiliation,

his reason for separating from JURE, and knowledge of

current JUrE activity.

4. Will interview JOSE LOPEZ LEGON, a leader

of the Ejercito Libertador de Cuba (ELC), to ascertain

if former ELC members JOSE and DUNNEY PEREZ ALAMO and

others, including NAPOLEON BECQUER, who joined JURE

about the end of 1963, may have since withdrawn fron

JURE.

COVER PAGE

DocId:32299425

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-- 6661

INFORMANTS

Identity

MM T-1 L8 CARLOS ZARRAGA (Key Source

• Cuba)

MM T-2 - PSI ANGEL YERGO

Location

134-104)-Sub A-1

134-987-Sub A-12

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32299425

Page

---

## Page 4

F6-204 (Rév. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

1 - CIA, Miami (RIBERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGA U.S. Custome, Region II,

1 • INS, Miami (RM)

Miami (RM)

1 = G-2, Ft. McPherson, Ga. (RM)

1= U.S. Customs, KeyWest (RM)

1 • OSI, Robins AFB, Ga. (RM)

• U.S. Coast Guard, Miami (RM)

Copy to:

1 • Border Patrol, Miami (RM)

1 = State Dept.; Cuban Affairs,

• U.S. Customs, Miami (RM)

Miami (RM)

I • ONI, 6ND, Charleston, S.C. (RM)

Report of: JAMES J. 0° CONNOR

Date:

MAR

Ofice: Miami, Florida

5 1965

Field Office File #s 105- 6661

Bureau Flle #: 105-114543

Title:

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA (JURE)

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Character: INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 2/8/85

10-22-94

_ BY SPE BIASSEL

Synopals: MM To1, who headed an organization which joined with

S8 MAC/SE

JURE during 1964, stated as of 9/64 that the reputa®

tion of JURE among Cuban exiles had deteriorated as a

result of failure by JuRE leader-MANUEL RAY to accom®

plish an infiltration of Cuba, MM I-2, acquainted

FLA

with various Cuban exile groups, believes JURE and the

anti-CASTRO organization Second

National Front of the

Escambray (SNFE), may have shown sign of partial unity

and both these groups are generally regarded as polit-

ically left and not pro-U.S. MANUEL VARELA CASTRO re-

signed as military chief of JURE in 2/65 because of

repeated postponements of infiltration of Cuba by

MANUEL RAY. VARELA holds the opinion that RAY lacks

the ability to direct a movement against the CASTRO

regime. VARELA advised that recently RAY has suggested

plans for JURE to engage in an air raid against Haiti

from Venezuela, using Puerto Rico as an intermediate

base; RAY has also indicated plans to assist Haitian

revolutionaries to overthrow the government of FRANCOIS

DUVALIER in order to obtain a base in Haiti

for anti.

CASTRO operations.

VARELA stated such tactics would

be a complete departure from JURE's long standing

strategy of the need for an internal uprising in Cuba,

and the decrying of hit and run attacks fostered by

other anti-CASTRO groups. VARELA stated JURE funds have

been received from anonymous source, believed in the

U.S. government, but this

subsidy was discontinued as

This document contatns neither recommendations nor conclusions. of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

203

DocId: 32299425 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 105-6661

DETAILS:

On September

28, 19649

MM T-J, a Cuban

exile leader

at Miami,

who had,

during

the summer of 1964, associated his

organization with JUrE, stated that as

of September 28,

the reputation of JURe awong tuban exiles had

ver truly detartorated, and BE leads MANET, RA? Ya

mained a prisoner of his much publicized promise to be in

Cuba by May, 1964.

MM I-l edvised that there had been considerable

financiad misuanagement within Juke, wherein money

was

wasted on firearns

that were defective and which could

have been purchased on the open market at a better price

than was obtained by JUre from the ERQUIAGA Arus Company

of LOS

Angeles, California.

MM T-I stated that efforts by MaNUal

RaY to wake

an infiltration of Cuba during May, and again on two

occasions during July, 1964, had falled,

with the result

that what contacts

had in Cuba were no longer In a

position to assist RAY because of the jeopardy involved.

According to MM To1, MANUEL, RAY waS excessive-

ly concerned with maintaining relationships with JUAN

BOSCH, the deposed President of the Dominican Republic;

Governor LUIS MINOZ MARIN of Puerto Rico, and "PEPY"

FIGUERAS, former Costa Rican President, with the result

that JURE's ability to obtain assistance

from the Dominican

Republie

and a base in that country were hampered.

MM Tal stated that the principal defect in the

leadership of MANUEL RAY 18 the fact that he i8 extreme-

ly ambitious and

conceited, and

sees himself as the next

DocId: 32299425 Page 5

---

