# docid-32272599

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

2/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10144-10312

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

35-05-07

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: BLAKEY, G. ROBERT

TO: CARPENTIER, PATRICK

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/28/1978

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

CIA, FILES

LETTER

Unclassified

3

Redact

* 08/23/1995

Box 26

19.1.

DooId:32272599

"66

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LOUIS STURBS, UNING LAIRMAN

RICHAROSON "REYER, N.C.

SAMUEL L

DEVINE. OH1O

WALDERLE. FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART ,'MCKINNEY, CONN

YVONMA, & RATiTWAITE BURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES THO

CHEESTORHER J. DODD, CONN.

HAROLD S. SA

MICH.

HAROLO E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT V, EOGAR, PA,'

(202) 225-4624

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.D. House of Representatibes

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

April 28,

1978

OL6 4578-1724

Mr.

Patrick Carpentier

Office of the Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Carpentier:

In connection with its investigation into the circum-

stances surrounding the death of President Kennedy, the Select

Committee on Assassinations requests access to all

files and

index references concerning the following:

THOMAS ARTHUR VALLEE - Date of Birth: November 15, 1933.

Social Security No. 327-30-4015. Veterans' Adminis-

tration Claim No. 17460615.

JOHN THOMAS MASEN - Date of Birth: August 15, 1940.

Questioned by the FBI relative to the JFK assassina-

tion, arrested on November 22, 1963 in Dallas for

•violation of the Federal Firearms Act.

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerely,

2. Dotet Bloks

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: jhd

DocId: 32272599

Page 2

---

