# docid-32328770

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90079-10028

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 162-128-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

TP

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/25/1961

PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH PORETTI

AUGUSTINE PRIMO LAZZARA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

DocId: 32328770

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD 283 (5-12-55.)

Reporting: Offco

TALIPA

ITTLE OF CASE

S.;

CHANGED

TOGUE PRIMO LAZZARA,

Prino anars, A. P.

A. Primo loszara

TALLATE,

Synopsis:

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

EX-114

Offica at Origin.

TANPA

REC

Date

5/25/61

Hoport made by

FRANCIS I. O'BBIEN

CHARACTER OF CASE

Investigative Period

4/27-5/23/61

INTERSTATE

CAMBLING ACTIVITIES

Typed By:

Title is marked "changed" to reflect additional aliases

Of PRIMO LAZZARA, A. P. LAZZARA, A? PRIMO LAZZARA.

REFERENCES

Tanya letter to Bureau 5/1/61.

Bureau airtel 5/15/61 captioned "INTERSTATE GAMBLING

ACTIVITIES."

=₽

-- COPIES MADE

LEADS

=l.

P.

DATE 72+79sY

RE PORETTO

REU

'ORLEANS

TO SCARE MO BANE SHEREET

(SEE BUFILE 62-117290)

AT NEV ORLEANS, La.

Mill conduct credit, criminal checks as well as other

sources for background data on RUDOLPH LAVRINCE BEINY, J., 8OI-

in-law o1 subject.

Special Agent

in Charge

Do not write in spacen beloty

111621128+

MCT : 42

N7 MAY 29 1961

REG RI

EX.118

Approved

Copies mado:

Bureau

New Orlen

• Savannah

1C C

З6ECW

5 JUN 13 1961

Property of FBI - This report in loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outaide the agency to which looned.

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1056 O 888819

DocId: 32328770

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 162-6

SAVANNAH

AT AUGUSTA, GA.

Will advise as to current activities of SAM DIPIAZZA

and JOSEPH ALBERT PORETTO, furnishing current phone numbers fo

soth; will also furnish any information identifying any othe

individual with whom subject might likely contact pertaining

to wire service information.

-

TAMPA

AT TAMPA, FLA.

1. Will obtain current telephone toll information

regarding telephones presently subscribed to by subject.

2. Will contact established sources to determine

extent of subject's gambling activities and if they involve

interstate contacts.

3. Will conduct spot surveillances to determine

activities and associates of subject.

4. Will determine any additional business enterprises

in which subject might be engaged.

INFORMANTS

TP T-l is interview of ROY

bY SA JORN A. RETIR (IP 62-1-THUR and JOHNNY VELASCO, 1/10/48,

TP T-2 is TP 41-PCI

TP T-3 is Former TP 7-C

TP T-4 is TP 8-C (P 92-21-16)

TP T-5 is DANIEL J. O'CONNOR, Supt., Commercial Dept.,

General

Telephone Co. of Florida, Tampa, Fla., (TP 92-21-18)

TP T-6 is PCI TOM CANDILIERI, Tampa, Fla.

TP T-7 is TP 46-C

B*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32328770 Page 3

---

