# docid-32301596

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/4/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: • FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10278-10431

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-112

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/12/1964

' PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

;

MIRR, MEMBERS, MIL ACT, LAS VILLAS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32301596

Page 1

38

---

## Page 2

4-3 (Ter. 1-117-631

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

RADIO

XXTELETYPE

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

REWEWED BY ABUJA FASH FORG

12:30 PM EST 5-12-64 URGENT

P

ON

7-23.98 dol

TO DIRECTOR

RELEAGE IN FOLL

FROM MIAMI 121655

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DEMAL

ONOV TENTO INSURRECIONAL RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO (MIAH

AS IS-CUBA, NiVI.

REMYTEL MAY 11, 1964, THIRD PARAGRAPH.

DATE MAY 19, RELATING TO RENTAL OF 26 FOOT BERTRAM

SPEEDBOAT, SHOULD

BE CORRECTED TO READ MAY 12, 1964.

U.S. CUSTOMS ADVISED MAY 12 THAT IT HAS VERIFIED THROUGH

INVESTIGATION THAT ONE FULLER, FIRST NAME GIVEN AS THEODORE,

MADE ARRANGEMENTS MAY 11 WITH BERTRAMS BOAT YARD TO OBTAIN NE

RENTAL OF BERTRAM 25 FOOT BOAT AT 8 AM, MAY 12. CUSTOMS

ALSO DETERMINED THROUGH SURVEILLANCE AND INVESTIGATION THAT

A HOME MADE TORPEDO WAS TESTED IN MAULE LAKE, MIAMI, NIGHT

OF MAY 11 BY SOME UNIDENTIFIED CUBANS WHO STORED TORPEDO

IN A SPECIFIC HOUSE ON N.W. 29TH AVE. NEAR 9TH ST. AFTER

COMPLETION OF TEST. CUSTOMS ADVISED IT HAS PLACED APPRO-

PRIATE SURVEILLANCE ON THE BERTRAM SPEEDBOAT AND RESIDENCE

WHERE TORPEDO LOCATED, IN ORDER TO STOP INSTANT RAID.

FURNISHED EXACT LOCATION WHERE NAPALM BOMBS ARE SCHEDULED

ON EARLY MORNING WAY 12, EVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ IPROTERTES

TO BE TAKEN BY LAREDO RODRIGUEZ FOR LOADING ON PLANE,

PURSUANT TO ORIGINAL PLANS OF ORLANDO BOSCH, HEAD OF MIRR

ALPIZAR ALSO MAKING FIRST SCHEDULED PLANE SURVEILLANCE TO

LOCATE "LAS VILLAS" ON MORNING MAY 12, BUT THIS IS PRIMARILY

PRACTICE RUN AS " LAS VILLAS" NOT EXPECTED REACH FLÓRIDA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

-112

UN

DATE

BYSPEBTA/ECL

mr 2/21/

MACBAT.

• MAY 26 1964

1964'

(JFK

the intelligence contained in the above message is to be

disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suffosted that

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems:

suitably

DocId: 32301596 Page 2

---

## Page 3

4-3 inev. 4-17-631

DECODED COPY

• AIRGRAM

I CABLEGRAM

O RADIO XX TELETYPE

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper -

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel _

"rotter ~

Tele. Room

Holmes _

Gandy

PAGE TWO FROM MIAMI 121655

COAST TODAY.

ALL PERTINENT INFO FURNISHED CUSTOMS. CLOSE LIASION

BEING MAINTAINED WITH CUSTOMS. CLOSE CONTACT BEING MAINTAINED

WITH ALPIZAR.

RECEIVED: 1:40 PM TRM

pache intell lee eroined in the above message is no he disseminated outside the Bureau,

it is suggested that it be suitably

DocId: 32301596 Page 3

---

