[RSE seen austere tees ron een cece Peet eee

e

ee |
File #:

(g2- WP_- Yoo

Serial Scope:

fe

DO NOT

DEST Say |



FDs3aifev. §-22-64) Ny

FBI
Date: 10/6/72

!
1
|
{
|
!
1

: I
I
I
|
\
1
|
'

Transmit the following in : PLAINTEXT
(Type in plaintext or code)

TELETYPE NITEL
a J (Priority) 1 O ‘o) 2
ta a a a a ett eae fle eet lef te a eee ttt te g FES) «Gen seseneeEqeees

TO: ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (7-14266)

FROM: SAG, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567)(p) 7

PINAP

RE: POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION FOR WILLTAMCMAR(

THIS INVESTIGATION CONCERNS THE ABDUCTION AT GUNPOINT OF
"MRS, VIRGINIA LEWIS PIPER FROM HER HOME AT ORONO, MN, ON
JULY TWENTYSEVEN, LAST, A ONE MILLION DOLLAR RANSOM WAS
REQUESTED FOR HER SAFE RETURN AND THE RANSOM WAS PAID ON
JULY TWENTYEIGHT, LAST. MRS. PIPER WAS LOCATED, UNHARMED, IN
THE WOODS NEAR DULUTH, MN, ON JULY TWENTYNINE, LAST, WHERE
SHE HAD BEEN HANDCUFFED TO A TREE SINCE SHORTLY AFTER HER
ABDUCTION. TO DATE NO POSITIVE EVIDENCE HAS BEEN DEVELOPED
TO DEFINITELY IDENTIFY THE PERPETRATORS OF THIS KIDNAPING,

BUREAJ AUTHORITY IS REQUESTED TO AFFORD POLYGRAPH

. 3,3
EXAMINATION TO RAY, AGE GB, A NATIVE OF ALABAMA, WHO is
PRESENTLY CONFINED ST. LOUIS COUNTY (DULUTH), MINNESOTA,

JAIL. RAY ARRESTED SEPTEMBER TWENTYTHREE LAST By bY DULUTH, |

POLICE DEPARTMENT ON FEDERAL WARRANT CHARGING ae ‘AND
2. Minneapolis '

eabiutbs To Va .
sent 2 5: 03 aye Per ABE

a



Transmit the following in

nw ABRWY!4: coraesragaTTs— Pao

Br,5-22-64) 7 i@ eee ®

FBI
Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

fo-t--

MP 7-567
PAGE TWO -

WAS SUBSEQUENTLY CHARGED BY ST. LOUIS COUNTY SHERIFF'S :
OFFICE WITH FIRST DEGREE MURDER IN THE STRANGULATION DEATH
OF VERNON: BERGERUD, SEPTEMBER TWELVE LAST.

RAY INTERVIEWED BY BUREAU AGENTS SEPTEMBER TWENTYFIVE
AND TWENTYSIX, LAST, WAS COOPERATIVE, ADMITTED DETAILS OF
ITSMV VIOLATION, WAS NOT QUESTIONED ON MURDER CHARGE, AND
DENIED ANY INVOLVEMENT IN PINAP, HE HAS NO KNOWN MENTAL
OR PHYSICAL DISABILITIES. DULUTH ASSOGATES OF RAY PLACE
HIM IN DULUTH DURING PERTINENT KIDNAPING PERIOD, JULY
TWENTYSEVEN THROUGH THIRTY, LAST, HOWEVER HE HAS SPENT
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS IN DULUTH IN LAST SEVERAL MONTHS. RAY
ESTIMATES SPENDING EIGHT TO NINE THOUSAND DOLLARS IN CASH.
ONE RAY ASSOCIATE STATES SHE PERSONALLY COUNTED SEVENTEEN
HUNDRED DOLLARS IN TWENTY'S AND OBSERVED A ONE THOUSAND
DOLLAR BILL IN RAY's POSSESSION, AUGUST TWENTYFIVE, LAST.
THIS ASSOCIATE ALSO STATES THAT AFTER A DRINKING BOUT WITH
RAY ON SEPTEMBER FOUR LAST, RAY CLAIMED HE HAD HALF A
MILLION DOLLARS.

dn. : ‘
Sent M . Per

4

!
!
!
!
I
I
1
I

ah Bo Orgs GPO: 1910 © - 402-298



ek
Fa

ev. §-22-64)

FBI

Date:

a

‘Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

pole—

PAGE THREE

RAY WILLING TO UNDERGO POLYGRAPH, AND HIS DULUTH
ATTORNEY CONSENTS AS LONG AS HE IS PRESENT DURING TEST.
DULUTH POLICE DEPARTMENT HAS INTERPOSED NO OBJECTIONS.

FULL SECURITY AND CONTROL IS ASSURED AND TEST WILL NOT

' JEOPARDIZE ANY PENDING PROSECUTIVE ACTION.

INVESTIGATION CANNOT PROVE OR DISPROVE RAY'S INVOLVEMENT
IN PINAP. IF EXAMINATION REVEALS RAY NOT INVOLVED, IT WILL
SAVE SUBSTANTIAL INVESTIGATIVE TIME.

at

MINNEAPOLIS DOES NOT HAVE A BUREAU TRAINED POLYGRAPH
OPERATOR. BUREAU REQUESTED TO DESIGNATE CHICAGO OPERATOR
TO HANDLE THIS EXAMINATION.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

END.

ae

NW 55193 DocId:32969775 Page 4



ARNO] MA PLAIN | 0 ‘

Ss43PM NPCTIT 1e- 17-72 LAS ec
TO MINNEAPOLIS’ (7-567)

CHICAGO
FROM ACTING ‘pISzcTo? (7-14986) IP

PINAP an :

REMPNITEL \TEQ/SINE LAST. et

NIM
RITY,C1VEN I SSEAPOL Ig FO? USE OF POLYC

lissassrt BUPEAU AUT

at

WITH PUREAU INSTRUCTIONS FOR SUSPECT
icy,

EXAMINATION IN ACCORE
WILLIAM “MARCUS AY. POLYGRAPH EXAMINE? HEPEERT F. ER

UTILIZED.

ASSIGNED TO CHICAGO DIVISION, SHOULD

CHICAGO COOFDI EAPOLIS.

XOMINATION SY SEPARATE

ADVISE BUREAU RESULTS OF E z
| COMMUNICATION. So, :

MINNEAPOLIS IN THE FUTUSE, WHEN SUEMITTING RECOMMENDATIONS
RELAT IVE TO REDUCT IO% OF MANPONE? IN CONNECTION WITH PINAP,

bari RECOMME WDAT IONS Ox uace EASIS.

| BND

|

| MXF FEI 4P ‘
Tu CLR :

p. 6EP- Sub ©?

= et ESE SF

A : 7
j cAttencls —___g ANDEXED
SEAL © ower /

OCT 1S 19
rate tonneaeei :

hk

NW_55193_ DocId: 32989775 ‘Page 5



| “ . ; i .
1 flee : ‘ C ) eee ae e
10/17/72

AIRTEL

TOs ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (7~14266)
FROM: SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7<567) (BP)

SUBJECTs PINAP
00: MINNEAPOLIS

Be Bureau teletype to Minneapolis, 10/10/72,
a: authorizing polygraph examination of JAMES MARCUS RAY.

RAY was afforded a polygraph examination 10/16/72
by SA HERBERT FP. BRITCK, Chicaga Office, at Ste Louis County
Jail, Duluth, Minnesota. A “Waiver of Rights" and “Consent
to.Polygrapn Interview" forms were signed by RAY.

As the Bureau is aware, RAY is being held on both

! Bureau IfSuV charges, and local first degree murder charges
“ for a murder he allegedly committed in the Duluth, Minnesota .
area, 9/12/72.

Pa

RAY's attorney, JOHN DURFEE, Duluth, was present
_at the jail during the course of the examination, but was not
present in the room during the actual polygraph interview.
Prior to the interview, DURFEE advised that he would permit
his client, RAY, to take the polygraph examination only if the
| pertinent questions asked would be restricted to the PIPER

| kidnappings
3 ~ Bureay
(1 ~80-5-9 Attention: FBI Laboratory Polygraph Unit) r
~ Chicago (94-715) (Info) . ~ Sab fe
O- Minneapolis aA Se 7 sessteeaet
a :

MA

: (6) Gol —_ i
: ye _ 2 7

ie

~
—NW-SSTI3 Dock: 32989775—Page—6. = He ~



HP 7-567

_ DURPEE further advised, confidentially, that he
did not believe that RAY would be a good polygraph subject,
dnasmuich as he considered RAY to be a pathological lier.

Tne charts of RAY's responses to the various
pertinent questions in the examination tend to indicate
that he is not directly involved in the kidnapping, that he
does not knew who committed the kidnapping, nor would he
vefuse to tell the PBI if he knew who did kidnap Mrs. PIPER.

However, due to the restrictions placed on the test
Questions by RAY's attorney, which prevent the establishment
of a suitable control question for relative camparison with
the pertinent questions; and further consideration of the fact
that RAY may actually be a pathological lier, the examiner's
opinion must be qualified, and the test results considered
indefinite. :

RAY, during the examination, was a generally
cooperative subject and made no apparent effofe to defeat
the purpose of the examination, It is noted, however, that
he refused to attempt to explain his responses on the charts
toe the question, “Was the money you spent since last July paxt
o£ the PIPER ransom?" He firmly stated that he had told the
FRI about the source of this money which he had obtained prior
to the PEPER kidnapping and he refused to discuss it any further.

At the end of the examination period, RAY stated
that he would be willing to continue the examination at a
later date in an effert to definitely establish his innocence
in regard to the PIPER kidnapping.

a

NyW_55193—Docld:32989775 Page 7.



MP 7567

fhe Minneapolis Office concurs with SA BRIICK,
Chicago polygraph examiner, that RAY be afforded an addi~
tional examination subsequent to the remaining polygraph
examinations to be afforded in this case.

The charts obtained, and list of questions asked,
are being retained im the Minneapolis case file.

: ARMED AND DANGEROUS

e

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 8 ee ae ae



| NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 9

; 31/10/72
AIRTEL
TO: ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (7=14266)
ATTENTION: FBI LABORATORY, POLYG! UNIT

FROM: SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567) (P)}

SUBJECT: PINAP

Z
Re Bureau teletype to Minneapolis dated 10/10/72,
authorizing polygraph examination of WILLiaM MARCUS
and Minneapolis airtel to Bureau dated ‘10/17/72, ret ecting
results of first polygraph examination of RAYe

RaY was afforded a second polygraph examination
11/10/72 by SA HERBERT F, BRIICK, Chicago Office, at the
St. Louis County Jail, Duluth, Minnesota. “Waiver of
Rights" and "Consent to Polygraph Interview" forms were
signed by RAY. RAY‘s attorney, JOHN DURFEE, ‘Duluth, was
present at the jall during the course of the examination
but wag not present in the room during the course of the
- actual: polygraph examination. Priox to the interview,
DURFEE reiterated the stipulation that he would permit his
client, RAY, to take the examination only if the pertinent
questions asked were restricted to the PIPER kidnaping.

Based on the charts obtained today, 11/10/72,
it does not appear that RAY is directly involved in the
kidnapping or that he knows who committed the kidnaping.

36 Bureat
(1 = 80-5+9)

L = chicago (94-715) (INFO) 7 SEP -Se Oo ve
- Minneapolis

HEB ray is ie ee

(6) GE SE ;

de . . eeety A



NW 55193

MP 7-567

Sufficient reactions to control» and guilt~complex-type
questions were obiained to provide a basis of comparison
with relevant questions. Additionally, no responses
indicating deception were noted during the “wora Association
Test" in which the names of various locations actually
involved in the kidnaping were mentioned, along with names
ef no significance.

The charts obtained, "Consent to Interview," waiver
forms and questions asked are being retained in the Minneapolis
case file.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS

= Qe =

a

DocId:32989775 Page 10



| ct
| OPTIONAL FORM NO. 18

‘ May 19 eoIrIGN .
| GSA FPMR (Al CFR) 101-188

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO = :gAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567 Sub F) (P) pate: 5/1/73

FROM :SA THOMAS E, SAUNDERS
SUBJECT: DINAP api

een SauerareEEy

RE: POLYGRAPH INTERVIEWS

A Sub file concerning polygraph interviews should
be established. The teletype messages to the Bureau request-
ing authorization for the polygraph interview, the Bureau
authorization granting the interview, and the summary of the
results of the interview should be placed in this Sub file.

at

There follows a listing of those to whom we have
afforded such interviews to date and the above-described
serials concerning these persons Should be removed from the

» Substitutive case file and placed in the Sub file.

Date Pexson

10/6/72 THOMAS C, ALDRICH

10/11/72 JAMES BAIN

10/16 and 11/10/72 WILLIAM MARCUS RAY
10/27/72, Mr. HARRY C, PIPER
10/27/72 Mrs, HARRY C, PIPER
11/1/72 "RONALD EDWARD CADY

11/9/72 BERNARD FRANCIS O'DONNELL —
11/28/72 SOHN CHRISTOPHER BJORNSON
11/29/72 JOHN ELWIN HEINECKE i
12/7/72 : ROBERT LE ROY BRISBANE

7 -SE7- Sud FH

EG) Minneapolis _] SEARCHED... IORKEC
Ga rdibirjt. SERIALZED_ZE Fiten ita |
. : AP Ra 201873 |
= 7 FEI — ni i
a



MP 7-567
1/23/73 HILLEL BARRY LIEBERMAN
_ 2/9/73 .. | MELVIN DOUGLAS PEDERSON
..
; 3/8/73 DONALD LAVERN CARLSON

3/9/73 aoe HAROLD C, COMBS

~2-

ake an =PEEEEEE :
5193 Doeld:32989775 Page 12 * -. + : cane
NW 5. 8 ge :



MR 215 MP PLAIN

9:94 PM NITEL 9/25/72 RG PEEEEEEEE ;
TO ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (7-14266).-

FROM MINNEAPOLIS (7-567) @) 4

yt : i

_PINAP. 00°: MP. DAILY SUMMARY TELETYPE
" wILLiam marcus RAY, FBI NUMBER SEVEN THREE ZERO
TWO FIVE EIGHT c, ON SEPTEMBER TWENTYONE, LAST, WAS
SUGGESTED BY THE DULUTH, MINNESOTA, PD AS A POSSIBLE
~ SUSPECT IN PINAP AS HE wAS FROM MONTGOMERY ; ALABAMA,
AND THEN BEING SOUGHT BY THE DULUTH OFFICIALS FOR
QUESTIONING IN CONNECTION WITH A MURDER ON SEPTEMBER
TWELVE ,LAST. RAY IS ALSO A FUGITIVE OF THE CHARLOTTE
DIVISION ON ITSMV VIOLATION. :
RAY ARRESTED SEPTEMBER TWENTYFOUR, LAST, AT
DuLutH AND WAS ARRAIGNED TODAY ON THE ITSMV CHARGES.

FEDERAL BAIL SET AT TWENTYFIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS. -

END PAGE ONE ° : Ht f
, 19 ~ S60 7- Sah O8F
ar

searched angen
gerializet pane

whe
NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 13



MP 7-567
PAGE Tyo
DULUTH AUTHORITIES ALSO FILED a’ FIRST DEGREE MURDER —
CHARGE AGAINST RAY, FOR WHICH HE WAS ALSO ARRAIGNED
TODAY AND NO BOND WAS RECOMMENDED FOR THIS OFFENSE.
RAY, CURRENTLY BEING INTERVIEWED BY BUREAU -AGENTS THIS
DATE RE POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT IN PINAP,
MRS. CHARLES E. PRICE, INDIVIDUAL WHO IS BELIEVED

70 BE THE WITNESS OBSERVING THEFT OF SEVENTYTYO

WONTE CARLO FROM-CUSTOMER PARKING LOT OF LARSON
CHEVROLET ON JULY ELEVEN, LasT, WHEW RECONT ACTED
ADVISED IT 1S NOW HER RECOLLECTION SHE THOUGHT SHE HaD
“OBSERVED THE UNSUB, WHO STOLE THE Car, IN

HENNEPIN AVENUE BUSINESS “AREA PRIOR TO THEFT. HER ;
“PRESENT RECOLLECTION OF THE UNSUB IS A’WHITE MALE, IN
LATE THIRTIES:, POSSIBLY FORTY, SIX FEET TO SIX FEET
‘TWO INCHES, MEDIUM BUILD, DARK BROWN HAIR, MEDIUM
‘LENGTH SIDEBURNS, NOT GRAYING, NO MUSTACHE, EYES

END PAGE Tyo

we
NW 55193 Docld:32989775 Page 14



MP 7-567

PAGE THREE

POSSIBLY BROWN, NO EYEGLASSES. AN OUTSTANDING
CHARACTERISTIC IS THAT HE APPEARED TO HAVE A VERY WHITE
FACE AND WAS WEARING a DARK BROWN SUIT, WHITE SHIRT,
was "GOOD LOOKING", AND CARRIED A CLUTCH-TYPE BRIEFCASE s
IN HIS RIGHT HAND. HE APPEARED TO-LIMP SLIGHTLY AND
IMPRESSED MRS. PRICE AS BEING A BUSINESSMAN,
7 BECAUSE OF HER PRESENT RECOLLECTION , EXP ANDED

INVESTIGATION BEING CONDUCTED IN AREA OF THEFT AND

“LARSON CHEVROLET IN CONTINUED EFFORTS TO IDENTIFY uNSUB—
i RESPON, IBLE FOR THE. THEFT. TIME OF THEFT, AS BEST
. “CaN BE DETERMINED, IS BETWEEN TvO AND THREE~THIRTY
Pelle, JULY ELEVEN, LAST. ;
TELETYPE. REQUESTS HAVE BEEN MADE OF THE BUREAU
TO INTERVIEW THOMAS C. ALDRICH AND RONALD WILLIAM
“ RAKAUSKAS WITH POLYGRAPH; EOTH HAVING BEEN PREVIOUSLY
- SUGGESTED AS SUSPECT, INTERVIEWED, DENIED KNOWLEDGE
END PAGE THREE ; :

5 de
NW 55193 Docld:32989775 Page 15° °° oa



MP 7-567 BIBSEIEIE vs

PAGE FOUR

OF PINAP, AND DURING INITIAL INTERVIEW, HAD VOLUNTEERED
WILLINGNESS TO BE INTERVIEW WITH POLYGRAPH. NINNEAPOLIS
IN NEAR FUTURE CONTENPLATES REQUESTING SIMILAR AUTHORITY
TO INTERVIEW SUSPECT JEFFREY ALLAN OLSEN, FBI NUNBER,
ON SIX ZERO SIX EIGHT SEVEN F, AFTER ARRANGEMENTS
HAVE BEEN COMPLETED WITH HIS COUNSEL TO DO SO 3 IT BEING
NOTED OLSEN Is 10 BE ARRAIGNED ON INDICTMENT CHARGING
ISP VIOLATIONS ON THURSDAY NEXT, :
INVESTIGATION OF OTHER PROJECTS PREVIOUSLY MENTIONED
CONTINUING. ; :

c

ARMED AND DANGEROUS -
END.

A, - a
DSS FBI WA Dc FOR THREE CLR 4

as. 5
NW 55193 Docld:32989775. Page 16 * : ‘



NR 13 MP PLAIN -

9285 PM NITEL 9/26/72

TO ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (¢7-14266)
FROM MINNEAPOLIS (7-567) @) 5P

PINAP. 00: MP DAILY SUMMARY TELETYPE

WILLIAM MARCUS RAY, FBI NUMBER SEVEN THREE ZERO
TwO FIVE EIGHT C., SUGGESTED BY THE DULUTH PD AS POSSIBLE
BUSPECT , INTERVIEWED BY BUAGENTS aND DENIED KNOWLEDSE OF OR
PARTICIPATION IN PIWAP. HE FURNISHED ALIBI WITNESSES WHO HAVE
BEEN INTERVIEWED ail ACCOUNT FOR HIS WHEREABOUTS DURING THE
PERT INE wr “PERIODS.
: THE FEDERAL GRAND JURY SITTING AT ST. PAUL MINNESOTA
OW NOVEMBER TWENTY ONE LAST RETURNED a TRUE BILL OF INDICTMENT
WHEREIN SUSPECT JEFFERY ALLEN OLSOW WAS CHARGED WITH THREE ;
OYNTS VIOLATION FEDERAL GIREARMS ACT AND TWO COUNTS OF ITSP
- OLSON TO BE ARRAIGNED IN USDC MINNEAPOLIS ON THURSDAY NEXT. ONE

INFORMANT KNOWN TO THE MINNEAPOLIS DIVISION WHO HaS HAD ANY conan
INFORMAT ION CONCERNING KIDNAPPING PLANS OF OLSON AND THAT

SOURCE HAS BEEN REGULARLY CONTACTED AND HAS ADVISED NO THING

OONCER NING ANY PROPOSED KIDNAPPING OF “OLD LADY DAYTON” OR

END PAGE ONE

7 - S67 SbD2

abe
NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 17



- le

PaGE TyO ~ x ae

BURGLARY OF GAMBLE RESIDENCE.
-"OLD LADY DAYTON" REFERRED TO BY UNKNOWN SUBJECT

NUMBER ONE COULD BE OWE OF MANY: MRS. DAYTONS wHO RESIDE IN

THE GENERAL VICINITY OF THE VICTIM OF THIS CASE..THE DAYTONS

ARE’ A VERY WEALTHY FAMILY wHO OWN a CHAIN OF STORES THAT BEAR

THEIR FAMILY NAME. MRS. PIPER WILL BE RECONTACTED TO “MAKE A

DETERMINATION AS TO THE PARTICULAR MRS. DAYTON. THAT THE UNSUB

MADE REFERENCE TO. ONE OF THE DAYTOWS WERE RECENTLY INVOLVED

IN A DIVORCE THAT GENERATED GREAT DEAL OF PUBLICITY, THE

FAMILY WEALTH AND DIVISION OF FUNDS IN CONNECTION WITH

DIVORCE MATTER OF PUBLIC KNOWLEDGE THROUGH REVELATIONS

MaDE IN THE LOCAL PRESS.

BURTON C. GAMBLE yOULD BE THE "MR GAMBLE” REFERRED TO BY

UNKNOWN SUBJECT NUMBER ONE. NO PHYSICAL EVIDENCE
AVAILABLE IN POSSISSION OF LOCAL AUTHORITIES
CURRENT: INVESTIGATION OF THIS MATTER IN CONNECTION TO PINAP INCLUDED
INTERVIEW WITH MR. GAMBLE. NO SUBJECTS THaT CASE WHO COULD BE
INVOLVED IN PIWAP. : :

END PAGE Two

dy

NW 55193 Doclda:32989775 Page ig + . - os RUSEBEEES |



e .

PAGE THREE mo tet :

INVESTIGATION HAS DETERMINED THaT DONALD P.R. BROWN
WHO ALLEGEDLY LOST SIX HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS IN THE STOCK
MARKET ,.DID NOT LOOSE THIS MONEY AT PIPER, JAFFRAY AND HOPWOOD,
@J &H). HE DOES NOT APPEAR IN THEIR CUSTOMER ACCOUNT RECORDS.”
EFFORTS BEING MADE TO LOCATE AND INTERVIEW BROWN.

UR. JOHN P, EBIN, VICE PRESIDENT PJH, RESIDENCE, TEN SIXTY
FOUR, CEDAR VIEW DRIVE, MINWEAPOLIS, ADVISED HE 1S NOT
ACQUAINTED WITH ANY PAROLEES OR EX CONVICTS, DOES NOT KNOW
EITHER BROTHER DE PAUL OR PASTOR KENNETH B, HENDRICKSON,

RALPH W. CRIPPEN REINTERVIEWED SEPTEMBER TWENTY FIVE LAST,

AT THE DAKOTA COUNTY JAIL, HASTINGS, MINNESOTA, ;

AT WHICH, TIME HE FURNISHED IDENTITY OF OTHER ASSOCIATES

OF LUPINO, INCLUDING ONE EqRL GUY, WHOM HE-DESCRIBED aS a CONVICTED |
COUNTERFEITER AND CHECK PASSER, PRESENTLY RESIDING AT SAVAGE =
WINNESOT aM OW ONE OCCASION CRIPPEN IN THE COMPANY OF TvMMY GREY,

"AND IN THE APARTHENT OF GUY, OBSERVED HIM IN POSSESSION OF A
RADIO“THAT WaS RECEIVING POLICE CALLS, EARL GUY WILL BE INTERVIEWED.
END PAGE THREE

dn. _ saEunues
NW 55193 Docld:32989775 Page 19 ° , " : 7



‘Pace FouR ae ;

ROCCO SALVATORE LUPINO, FBI NUMBER ONE FIVE SEVEN
EIGHT SEVEN NINE L, SUGGESTED BY CRIPPEN AS A SUSPECT,
REINTERVIEWED AT THE MINNESOTA STATE PENITENTIARY, STILLWATER
MINNESOTA TODAY. LUPINO DENIED AGAIN ANY INVOLVENENT
ON HIS PART IN PINAP, BUT STATED " I'LL TELL YOU WHAT CAME DOWN
TO ME." HE RELATED THaT IT WAS APPROXIMATELY ONE WEEK TO TEN DAYS
‘AFTER THE PIPER KEDWAPING THaT HE wAS SEATED WITH Tw OF HIS
FRIENDS IN A RESTAURANT HaVING LUNCH. HE WOULD NOT IDENTIFY
HIS FRIENDS OR THE RESTAURANT. HE RECALLS ONE MAKING THE REMARK
THAT THE PIPER KIDNAPING, WAS SET UP BY A TWIN CITY BUSINESS MAN
WHO AT ONE TINE HAD BEEN CLOSE TO PIPERS BUT WAS NOT ANY
LONGER. LUPINO THINKS HE REMEMBERS THE WORD “INVESTNENT” BEING
ASSOCIATED WITH THE TWIN CITY BUSINESS MAN, BUT WAS NOT
POSITIVE OF THIS. LUPINO ADVISED UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCE

WOULD HE FURNISH; TO THE FBI, THE NAMES OF HIS TWO FRIENDS, BECAUSE ;

HE DID NOT WANT THEM TO BECOME INVOLVED, BuT WOULDADVISE, IF HE
OULD FIND Our, THE NAME OF THE TWIN CITY BUSINESS MAN ised dant

ABOVE. LUPINO SAID HE DID NOT QUESTION THIS REMARK BECAUSE SOME TIMES

SITYATIONS WHERE YOU DO NOT ASK QUESTIONS. LUPINO WILL BE
REINTERVIEWED THE WEEX OF TEN ONE NEXT.
END PAGE FOUR

: dk - cas
| NW 55193 DocTd:32989775 Page 20
L A



INVESTIGATION COMPLETED IN REGARDS TO STATEMENT

OF UNKNOWN SUBJECT REGARDING FINES ON BOOKS PREVENTING HIS
RETURN TO COLLEGE. THE UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA REPORTED THAT
THEY LOOSE THIRTY THOUSAND DOLLARS wOTH OF BOOKS: EACH YEAR, :
UOF M HAS NO ACCOUNTING SYSTEM FOR IDENTIFYING INDIVIDUALS WITH LARGE
NUMBER OF OVER DUE BOOKS. = ;
RICHARD E. GRAMS, SUGGESTED BY SUSPECT OLSON, AS CAPABLE

OF COMMITTING THE KIDNAPING. GRAM RESIDES aT TWO SEVEN ZER

i SEVEN PIERCE AVE. NE MINNEAPOLIS, IS UNEMPLOYED. AND

RECEIVING’ WELFARE PAYMENTS FOR SUBSISTANCE. HE FURNISHED

ALIBI FOR THE PERTINENT PERIOD WHICH WAS VERIFIED THROUGH
INTERVIEW WITH PEOPLE HE CONTACTED AND RECORDS MAINTAINED BY

HIS MOTHER 7 CONTACT WITH GRAMS HAS BEEN MAINTAINED WITH, LAST
CONTACT BEING SEPTEMBER TWENTY FIVE LAST AND HE IS NOW FURNISHING
INFCRMATION CONCERNING WHaT HE KNOWS-OF OLSON'S ACTEVITIES.
; CONT ENUED INVESTIGATION OF THE ACTIVITIES OF BERNARD

FRANCIS 0 'DONNELL REVEALS THAT HE IS REMAINING CLOSE TO HIS
‘RESIDENCE, AND THIS PHASE OF INQUIRY CONTINUING. CONTINUED
EMPHASIS BEING GIVEN TO JAMES BAIN, FORMER PIPER EMPLOYEE.

END.

PAGE THREEL LINE FIFTEEN IS TOMMY GREY acta tH -

PAGE FIVE LINE FOUR IS WORTH OF BOOKS eeeee ‘ q
~ HOLD

LRS FBEH@S ACK FOR SIX

vie
NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 21



FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64) 6 : @

{
i
{
I
{
\
7 sGeetetces ‘FBI H
i Date: 10/2/72 }
a {
Transmit the following in PLAINTEXT |
| : (Type in plaintext or code) :
Vie TELETYPE NITEL !
(Priority) _ 1
L
; TOs ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (714266) 9:38 P- Dwi!
FROM: SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567) (P)
PINAP, 00: MP. DAILY SUMMARY TELETYPE

INVESTIGATION HAS DETERMINED NORMAN LEWIS HALVERSON,

f
FBI NUMBER NINE TWO THREE SEVEN FIVE FOUR D, AN ASSOCIATE

OF BERNARD FRANCIS O'

Sarin ons ENM OH

Uso Se MARSHAL, MINNEAPOLIS, TO BEGIN SERVING SENTENCE

NNELL, THIS MORNING TURNED INTO

AS RESULT OF CONVICTION AND SENTENCING U. S. DISTRICT

COURT, MINNEAPOLIS, ON GUN CHARGE. FULL-LENGTH COLOR

PHOTOS OF HALVERSON OBTAINED TO BE SHOWN TO ALL PERTINENT

WITNESSES. Us So ATTORNEY, MINNEAPOLIS, MAKING ARRANGEMENTS

TO HAVE DEFENSE ATTORNEY ASSIGNED TO HALVERSON IN pimans

THAT A LINE-UP CAN BE AFFORDED MRS, CHARLES Ee ae THE
Senreenemenentimirrnnninnstiraie

PERSON WHO IS BELIEVED TO HAVE POSSIBLY SEEN THE INDIVIDUAL,
2- FC? Sub OL YR

- MINNEAPOLIS
ALL

ae

Approved; —
Special Agent in 1 Charge a a -
NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 2 ‘Yr v. 5, GovERNMENT PRINTING



FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64) @ @

Transmit the following in

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

MP 7-567

PAGE TWO a

STEALING THE MONTE CARLO FROM THE LARSON CHEVROLET LOT.
ROBERT RHO. ES, THE INDIVIDUAL WHO TESTIFIED AT
RECENT TRIAL IN U. S. DISTRICT COURT, MINNEAPOLIS, AGAINST

ROCCO SALVATORE LUPINO, WAS INTERVIEWED AND ADVISED

psatttiseg
BERNIE O'DONNELL IS EXTREMELY CLOSE TO LUPINO, AND HE

FEELS O'DONNELL 10 BE EXTREMELY INTELLIGENT AND CAPABLE
OF WRITING RANSOM NOTE AND CARRYING OUT A KIDNAPING. HE
STATED HE FEELS, HOWEVER, O'DONNELL IS A FOLLOWER RATHER
-THAN A LEADER. HE SAID BERNIE O'DONNELL, O'DONNELL'S
FRIEND, NORMAN HALVERSON, AND HE (RHOADES) WOULD
OCCASIONALLY STP AROUND AND PLAN A KIDNAPING. HE SAID
THEY NEVER CONSIDERED ANY SPECIFIC VICTIM OR SPECIFIC
KIDNAPING, BUT SPOKE ONLY IN GENERALITIES. HE SAID HE
BELIEVED HALVERSON WORKED AS A CAR SALESMAN IN THE Pas?
AT SOUTHTOWN CHEVROLET, HE SAID HE ALSO BELIEVED

HALVERSON ATTENDED UNIDERSITY OF MINNESOTA AT ONE TIME.

193 pocra: 3288844 Aggntin,gharge .

Approved: may Sent M, Per

YY U. 5. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971 419-135



vt . . th Es . os

FD-36 (Rev.-5-22-64) r ] Eee e

FBI

‘ Date:

Transmit the following in

(ype in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

MP 7-567

PAGE THREE

GARY E. LEGS, DATE OF BIRTH MARCH FOUR, FORTYFOUR,

|, MINNEAPOLIS PD ARREST NUMBER FIVE THREE FIVE NINE nl
WAS INTERVIEWED AND ADVISED HE HAS KNOWN GOTTFRIED vow
se actnencrrescketi
KRONENBERGER FOR SOME TIME. HE SAID HE SERVED A Two-
soci ancencensannannmnt

"YEAR SENTENCE AT STILLWATER PENITENTIARY, WHERE HE WAS
VERY FRIENDLY WITH VON KRONENBERGER. HE SAID ON ABOUT

JUNE TWENTYFOUR, LAST, VON KRONENBERGER TELEPHONED HIM

WHILE HE WAS AT HIS PARENTS' HOME IN RICHFIELD, MINN.,
STATING HE WAS CALLING FROM CALIFORNIA. LEGO SAID HE
DID NOT KNOW AT THAT TIME VON KRONENBERGER WAS INVOLVED
IN THE MURDER OF JERRY GRIFFIN. HE SAID HE WENT TO THE
APARTMENT VON KRONENBERGER HAD USED IN MINNEAPOLIS TO
OBTAIN THE REGISTRATION FOR HIS (VON KRONENBERGER'S)
CAR, WHICH HE SENT TO HIM IN CARE OF GENERAL DELIVERY |
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA. HE LATER DETERMINED VON

KRONENBERGER WAS BEING SOUGHT AT THAT TIME FOR GRIFFIN'S

Approved: ae - Sent M Per
‘NW 55193 Docta: ssRAs I Aceh ga Gaarge ; ‘rv, 5: coVERNMENT PRINTING orpiez: 1971 =419—196.



FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

t
1
1
1
. oo FBI |
Date: I
a 1
Transmit the following in :
(Type in plaintext or code) {
1
Via
(Priority) 1
-4--- + ee Le
MP 7-567
PAGE FOUR rs

MURDER, AND HE BECAME ENRAGED SINCE HE FELT HE COULD

7 HAVE WALKED INTO A POLICE STAKEOUT AND BEEN ARRESTED
SINCE VON KRONENBERGER WAS THEN BEING SOUGHT FOR MURDER.
HE STATED HE IS PRESENTLY ON PAROLE. LEGO SAID HE WAS

, TELEPHONICALLY CONTACTED BY VON KRONENBERGER DURING ©
JULY, SEVENTYTWO, AND WHEN HE HEARD VON KRONENBERGER'S
VOICE ON THE PHONE, HE INFORMED HIM HE DID NOT WANT TO
TALK TO HIM AND HE COULD NOT AFFORD TO ASSOCIATE WITH
HIM. HE SAID HIS GIRLFRIEND, CAROL TRUESDALE, ACCEPTED

A COLLECT CALL FROM’VON KRONENBERGER, AND HE (LEGO)

REFUSED TO TALK TO HIM. HE SAID HE BELIEVES THESE CALLS

WERE LONG DISTANCE BECAUSE FROM THE CONNECTIONS BEING
MADE IT APPEARED THEY WERE COMING THROUGH AN OPERATOR
AND THE CONVERSATION WAS VERY WEAK, HE SAID HE DID NOT
FEEL VON KRONENBERGER WOULD RETURN TO MINNESOTA AFTER

THE MURDER OF GRIFFIN. LEGO SAID HE WAS EMPLOYED AT

rN

Approved: 7 7 Sent _wwmsSsSeeeeeMOiPler
Special Agent in Charge :
NW 55193 Docld:32989775 Page 25

1 Wu. 5, GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971~413—195 *



3 ~ ia

FD-36 (Rev. $-22-64) @ Cae e

x . ~

t
1
I
1
4
1
I
FBI H
‘ Date: H
{
Transmit the following in |
(Type in plaintext or code) 1
1
Via !
(Priority) H
Wt tt + ee L
MP 7-567). :
PAGE FIVE *
BROWN AND BIGELOW COMPANY, MINNEAPOLIS, ON JULY TWENTYSEVEN,
LAST, AND STEADILY EMPLOYED SINCE THAT DATE TO THE PRESENT.
af
HE SAID HE HAD NO INFORMATION TO FURNISH CONCERNING THE
PIPER KIDNAPING, AND ALTHOUGH VON KRONENBERGER WAS

PARTICIPATED BECAUSE HE WAS NOT THE TYPE OF INDIVIDUAL
TO PERPETRATE A KIDNAPING.

THE LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE CALLS MADE TO THE
-RESIDENCE OF CAROL TRUESDALE CHECKED, AND IT WAS DETERMINED
TWO CALLS WERE RECEIVED ON JULY FOUR, LAST, AND ONE ON
JULY SIX, LAST, FROM KAMLOOP, BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA,

AND ONE CALL ON JULY SEVEN, LAST, FROM LAC Lo Ho, BRITISH
COLUMBIA. INVESTIGATION BEING INSTITUTED TO DETERMINE
IF VON KRONENBERGER PRESENTLY LOCATED THOSE CITIES.

INVESTIGATION REGARDING JEFFREY ALLEN OLSEN
ein an nanos nevetat iin Dt YaAatio

» CAPABLE OF PLANNING SUCH A CRIME, LEGO DID NOT FEEL HE
CONTINUING IN EFFORT TO ESTABLISH SOURCES QF FINANCES

Approved: aa Sent

~M ~ Per -

NW 55193 Docra: Spasighdcephda Gurge ~~ ” Fru, s. covERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971~419~198



FD-36 (Rev. §-22-64) r ) t }
‘i | fuganl

i
t
t
1
!
: '
FBI \
: Date: H
1
Transmit the following in |
(Type in plaintext or code) 1
{
Via H
(Priority) H
w4-- + ee ee L
MP 7-567
PAGE SIX *

THROUGH VARIOUS BANK ACCOUNTS.

WILLIAM MARCUS + FBI NUMBER SEVEN THREE ZERO

seems
TWO FIVE EIGHT C, WHO IS PRESENTLY IN CUSTODY AT DULUTH,

MINNESOTA, ON OTHER CHARGES, HAS ADVISED HE WOULD BE
SUSCEPTIBLE TO INTERVIEW WITH POLYGRAPH. CONSIDERATIONS
BEING GIVEN IN THIS REGARD, AND IF DETERMINED DESIRASLE,

BUREAU AUTHORITY WILL BE REQUESTED. -

apse nt een

RONALD EDWARD bs + WHO HAS PREVIOUSLY BEEN NAMED

f
_BY JEFFREY ALLEN OLSEN AS AN INDIVIDUAL WHO COULD BE

INVOLVED IN INSTANT CASE AND WHO HAS PREVIOUSLY BEEN
INTERVIEWED, WILL BE CONFACTED OCTOBER THREE, NEXT, TO
DETERMINE HIS SUSCEPTIBILITY TO INTERVIEW WITH POLYGRAPH.
IT IS NOTED HE HAD INDICATED PREVIOUSLY HE WOULD CONSIDER
SUCH AN INTERVIEW. IF AGREEABLE, BUREAU AUTHORITY WILL
BE REQUESTED. 7 . : a

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

ENDo

Approved: is, Sent : M. Per
ecial Agent in Gharge . * Yeu.s. covernmeny PRINTING OFFICE: 1971 —419—135

S)
NW 55193 poora: 32889778



* PD-3§ (Rev, 5-22-64)

e..

FBI
i Date: 10/11/72
Transmit the following in id PLAINTEXT
(Type in plaintext or code)
Via TELETYPE NITEL
(Priority)
TO: ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (7-14266)
FROM: SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567) (P)
PINAP. OO: MP. DAILY SUMMARY TELETYPE

NW 55193 DocId:32

JAMES S. BXIN, THE FORMER PIPER, JAFFRAY AND HOPWOOD
EMPLOY BE SUGGESTED BY MR. PIPER AS POSSIBLE SUSPECT, —
INTERVIEWED WITH POLYGRAPH TODAY. RESULTS OF THIS
INTERVIEW REFLECT HE Is NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR THE KIDNAPING,
_DOES NOT KNOW WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE KIDNAPING, WAS

“NOT INVOLVED IN THE THEFT OF THE MONTE CARLO, NOR HAS
HE RECEIVED ANY FUNDS FROM SOURCES UNKNOWN TO THE FBI.

ARRANGEMENTS BEING MADE FOR INTERVIEW OF WILLIAM
: MaRcus 8 AY BY, USE OF POLYGRAPH AT COUNTY JAIL, DULUTH,
MINNESOTA, OCTOBER TWELVE, NEXT. Je ECP Suh O

MR. CARL MILLER, OPERATOR OF MR. STEAK RESTAURANT
eed fe

@: MINNEAPOLIS *
ESiRKS f : MAUD,
CIN 47 a eee
eas QC OY
Approved: Sent "= ia M Per 2

U.S.Government Printing Office: 1972 — 455-574



we
r

+ "PD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64). @ Pao e

i

|

i

{

t

|

{

i

t

Transmit the following in —
: |
i

\

I

FBI
Date:
(Type in plaintext or code)
Via
7 (Priority)

morn en ee ee f EP Stan Papp raenE es

MP 7-567

PAGE TWO : *

LOCATION ON NIGHT OF JULY TWENTYEIGHT, LAST, WAS EXHIBITED
PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE FOLLOWING, TODAY : WITHOUT EFFECTING
IDENTIFICATION:

GERALD alae MINNESOTA STATE. PRISON NUMBER TWO
ZERO EIGHT ZERO EIGHT; JEFFREY ALLAN OLSEN, FBI NUMBER
ONE SIX ZERO SIX EIGHT SEVEN F; ROBERT G. BILLSTROM, FBI

NUMBER FOUR ONE SIX ONE FIVE THREE C; BERNARD FRANCIS

O'DONNELL; NORMAN LEWIS wi VERSON; SIDNEY BURTON THO! iP SON,
setae

_ DOB DECEMBER ELEVEN, TWENTYSEVEN; WILLIAM 'S Rav;

Gara
LUE #0 + DONALD Le ‘SON; TEMES S. BAN; RONALD WILLIAM
ees RODERICK vok KRONENBERGER.

, ROBERT 0 ,Bs, AKA "DUSTY," ALCOHOL, TOBACCO AND

' FIREARMS (AIF) DIVISION WITNESS AGAINST ROCCO SALVATORE

FRANK CLARENCE oat RICHARD E. GRAMS; ROCCO SALVATORE

LUPINO, REINTERVIEWED TODAY AND WAS EXHIBITED CERTAIN

PHYSICAL EVIDENCE WHICH WAS RECOVERED AT THE SITE WHERE

Approved: ios Sent 7 M Per

NW 55193 Docla:32SH98)6l Apagtin Sharge ~  U.s.Government Printing Office: 1972 — 455-574



fH oo ; y & Bee ee ge naeesseaeeaneeeerl

+ °FD-36 (Rev. $-22-64) e BEET H e@

7 7 nN

Fel

‘ : Date:

(Type in plaintext or code}

I

|

1

1

i

!

1

{

iF

Transmit the following in ns
zt t
|

i

I

(Priority).

PAGE THREE >
MRS. PIPER LOCATED. RHOADES STATED THAT IF THE INDIVIDUAL
.WHO STAYED IN THE WOODS WITH VICTIM SMOKED CIGARETTES, mt
WAS VERY LIKELY NOT BERNARD FRANCIS O/fONNELL AS HE ABHORS
CIGARETTE SMOKING. O'DONNELL DOES NOT CONSUME SOFT DRINKS,
WITH POSSIBLE EXCEPTION OF SEVEN-UP, WHICH HE WOULD TAKE
FOR RELIEF OF GASTRIC INDIGESTION, RHOADES CANNOT IDENTIFY
BLANKETS OR HANDCUFFS, BUT NOTED THAT THE SWEAT SHIRT IS
SOMETHING LIKE O'DONNELL HAS BEEN SEEN TO WEAR, BUT HE HAS
_ NEVER OBSERVED O'DONNELL WEAR THE SPECIFIC ST. OLAF SWEAT
SHIRT. O'DONNELL IS MORE INCLINED TO WEAR BROWN CLOTHING.
RHOADES INDICATED THAT IF LUPINO HAD ORDERED O'DONNELL TO
GUARD vicrim IN WOODS HE WOULD HAVE DONE IT, BUT DOUBTED
.HE WOULD HAVE DONE IT FOR ANYONE ELSE.
REPEATED EFFORTS WERE MADE TO CONTACT AND INTERVIEW
O'DONNELL AT HIS RESIDENCE TODAY, AND EFFORTS WILL BE

MADE TO INTERCEPT HIM FOR INTERVIEW TOMORROW.

4

Approved: —____ iB BEEBE SEREEESERSEEEEEL "7 CHEEEESEESER! —__——.M Per
NW 55193 Docla:3298Recis! Agapt igdCharge :

U.S.Government Printing Office: 1872 — 455-574



FD-36 (Rev. $-22-64) @ - : e

1
1
1
1
1
. Wi
FBI ae
Date: H
t

i

1

1

t

H

t

| Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

PAGE FOUR
ABE KOURMAN, A CONVICTED BOOKMAKER AND RECENT
RELEASEE FROM FEDERAL CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION (FCI),
SANDSTONE, MINNESOTA, INTERVIEWED TODAY AND STATED THAT
HE HEARD NO MENTION MADE OF THE PIPER KIDNAPING CASE BY
aNY INMATES AT THE FCI.
CONTINUED. EFFORTS ARE BEING MADE T0 LOCATE ROBERT
GUSTAV _BILLSTROM, REFERRED TO ABOVE.
INDIVIDUALGp ELIMINATED “a> DATE: CHARLES EDWARDS,
_ DOB SEPTEMBER THREE, TWENTY THREE.
CONTINUED INVESTIGATION BEING CONDUCTED IN REGARD
TO DONALD LAVERN caktson IN EFFORT TO ESTABLISH
INFORMANT oie AT LOCATION OF HIS MAIN BUSINESS
ENTERPRISE ON HENNEPIN AVENUE, MINNEAPOLIS. NEIGHBORHOOD
SOURCES BEING CONTACTED ON REGULAR BASIS IN VICINITY OF
CARLSON'S RESIDENCE. '

EFFORTS WILL BE MADE TO ARRANGE APPOINTMENT FOR

.

“ike Sent : —M Per
Special Agent in Charge +, UsS.Government Printing Office: 1972 — 455-574
NW 55193 Doold:32989775 Page 31 i

Approved:



eee EEE f . & Sth et feta tattle cattle &

+ ©D-36 (Rev, 5-22-64), @ reeerael [ )

FBI
‘ Date:
Transmit the following in :
(Type in plaintext or code) See
Via SUSSISIAUESENINIESESIAI

MP 7-567
PAGE FIVE ‘ °
INTERVIEW WITH RONALD A FUTURE DATE BY CHICAGO
POLYGRAPH EXAMINER.

INVESTIGATION CONTINUING TO ELIMINATE NUMEROUS
INDIVIDUALS PREVIOUSLY REFERRED. TO AS POSSIBLY HAVING HAD
SOME CONNECTION WETH THIS CASE,

ARMED AND DANGEROUS _

uh, 7 .
Approved: & Sent Meer
NW 55193 Docla:329%exisl Amegt iscCharge” _*'¥,8.Government Printing Off



FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in PLAINTEXT.

FBI

Date; 10/12/72

(Type in plaintext or code

Via TELETYPE NITEL

ygp - Reus
10: ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (7-14260) 9.49? ~ R?

(Priority)

FROM: SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567)

PINAP, OO: MP.

@)

DAILY SUMMARY TELETYPE,

PARAMOUR WITH WHOM SUSPECT BERNARD F. 9 ONNELL HAS

BEEN RESIDING REFUSED AGENTS ADMISSION TO

DENIED KNOWING ANY "BERNIE,"

E HOUSE AND
SHE WAS OBSERVED TO LEAVE THE

HOUSE A SHORT TIME LATER IN THE VEHICLE REGISTERED TO

O'DONNELL, O'DONNELL NOT SEEN BY SPECIAL AGENTS.

BE CONFINED.

IT Is

ANTICIPATED THAT HIS PAROLE OFFICER WILL BE CONTACTED IN AN
- EFFORT TO HAVE HIS PAROLE REVOKED, AND THEREAFTER, HE WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR INTERVIEW IN WHICHEVER INSTITUTION HE MAY

TO ASSURE THAT ALL FACETS CONCERNING THE RANSOM MONEY
ARE EXPLORED, INQUIRY IS BEING MADE OF U. S. TREASURY |.”
OFFICERS TO OBTAIN AN EXPLANATION AS TO THE MECHANICS
INVOLVED IN THE PLACING OF THE RANSOM MONEY INTO BANKING OR
INTERNATIONAL CHANNELS IN THE EVENT THE UNSUBS WERE SUCCESSFUL
IN PHYSICALLY REMOV ING THE RANSOM MONEY FROM THE CONTINENTAL

oP
NW Apaavedpocia:azaaa745 / $46 a3

Sent

Zt Per

7- Sé7- Sw ’ O30
~ Minneapolis : at
Eno WE / = Z.
(erect ean

oh



FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI
‘ Date:
‘Transmit the following in [ype ta platatond oF code] a
1
Via |
(Priority) 1
fe ery eee oe ee ee en ene sla a et al a ae
MP 7-567 »
PAGE TWO

UNITED STATES, INQUIRY WAS MADE IF THE MONEY COULD BE
OPENLY EXCHANGED IN A FOREIGN MARKET WITHOUT OUR BEING ABLE
TO DETECT IT IN SPITE OF THE PREVIOUSLY ARRANGED LIAISON

, WITH THE FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS, FURTHER INQUIRY WAS MADE OF
TREASURY OFFICIALS TO DETERMINE IF AMERICAN CURRENTY WHICH
IS SPENT OR EXCHANGED ABROAD DOES, IN FACT, PHYSICALLY ;
RETURN TO THE UNITED STATES. : i ;

BECAUSE OF COURT COMMITME! rs, THE PROPOSED POLYGRAPH

“INTERVIEW OF WI.

IAM MARCUS RAY AT DULUTH, MINNESOTA, FOR

THIS DATE HAS BEEN DEFERRED TO THE MORNING OF OCTOBER
SIXTEEN, NEXT.

A MR. FINK, WHO IDENTIFIED HIMSELF AS ATTORNEY FOR

RONALD CADY, TELEPHONICALLY CONTACTED THE MINNEAPOLIS OFFICE
AND ADVISED HE WAS RECOMMENDING HIS CLIENT NOT TO SUBMIT TO
POLYGRAPH INTERVIEW, AND THEREAFTER, ADVISED HE WOULD
RECONSIDER AND WOULD INFORM AS TO HIS FINAL DECISION BY
OCTOBER THIRTEEN, NEXT. :

ike : : 7
nw SSepovegecza:32999975—Page34 Sent z M .Per



FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64) * @ soe e

FBI

Date:

Transmit the following in ~
(Type in piaintext or coded

Via

PAGE THREE

THE FOLLOWING IS THE IDENTITY OF THOSE’ PERSONS WHO HAVE
BEEN ELIMINATED TODAY: ANTHONY FRED LEG¢TO, FBI NUMBER
FOUR ONE TWO NINE SEVEN SIX B; WILUTAM WALTER, LYONS, DOB
WAY TWELVE, THIRTY; AND HENRY LE ROY bia DOB MAY TEN,
PORTY-NINE, KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, .

, MISEOURE. 2 2/
JACK A ADPEL a CONVICTED ee WHO RECENTLY

RETURNED TO MINNEAPOLIS FROM THE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, AREA,
INTERVIEWED TODAY, APPEL EMPHATICALLY DENIED ANY INVOLVMENT
_IN PIPER KIDNAPPING AND OFFERED THE OPINION THAT IT WAS A
PUT-UP JOB BECAUSE’ OF THE APPARENT EMOTIONAL STABILITY

OF THE VICTIM AT THE TIME OF HER APPEARANCE AT THE TELE-
VISION PRESS CONFERENCE SHORTLY AFTER HER RECOVERY. APPEL
FURTHER INDICATED THAT HE HAS NOT RECEIVED ANY INFORMATION

TO INDICATE THAT THIS OFFENSE WAS COMMITTED BY ANY LOCAL

MINNEAPOLIS HOODLUM,

wk x
nw ABRIOYCbcorresz9s977s—Page—ss—— Sent ___________M_ . Per



eats : : janeeusrentancy a
oe o e
FD-36 (Rev, 5-22-64) i : unas .

1
1
1
1
1
|
FBI \
: Date: |
I
Transmit the following in : !
(Type in plaintext or code) i
‘ia : H
(Priority) 1
ee ee ee eee Sees Enea a neneeen y See eee eee
MP 7-567
PAGE FOUR

MINN: ae DIVISION WILL RESOLVE THE SITUATION WITH
RONALD CADY AT THE EARLIEST DATE AND ADVISE AS TO WHETHER
OR nor xk WILL, IN FACT, SUBMIT TO INTERVIEW WITH BUREAU
POLYGRAPH EXAMINER.

AS INDICATED ABOVE, IMMEDIATE CONTACT WILL BE MADE

WITH BERNARD O'DONNELL 'S STATE PAROLE OFFICER TO EFFECT
A REVOCATION OF HIS PAROLE. , , is
EFFORTS ARE STILL CONTINUING TO DEVELOP AN informant
“VERY CLOSE TO THE OPERATION OF DU ALD LAVERNE CARLSON,
CONTINUING INVESTIGATION IS BEING CONDUCTED TO
ELIMINATE THE INDIVIDUALS UNDER CONSIDERATION AS POSSIBLY
HAVING HAD SOME CONNECTION WITH THIS CASE,
i: ARMED AND DANGEROUS,
END.

du : :
Sent is M Per

ww 8059S corasassarTs Fase SE

GPO: 1970 © - 402-735



FBI
Date: 10/16/72

1
1
1
1
i
7 1
1
|
t
I
i

Transmit the following in PLAINTEXT
5 “aie (Type in plaintext or code) |
“PELETYPE NITEL 1
Via =: ney
Pee a (Priority) 1
TO: ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (7-14266) //> 706 P- Law 6 |
FROM: SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567) (P) HA y,
PINAP, 00: MP. DAILY SUMMARY TELETYPE

ALCOHOL TOBACCO, FIREARMS DIVISION (ATFD), MINNEAPOLIS,
ADVISED THIS DATE THAT ONE OF JHEIR AGENTS RECEIVED A
TELEPHONE CALL FROM GEORGE es FROM MANNFORD, OKLAHOMA,
PM, OCTOBER FIFTEEN, LAST, BRYANT IS IN PROTECTIVE CUSTODY
ATFD AS HE APPEARED AS WITNESS IN ‘ONE OF THEIR TRIALS IN
: MINNEAPOLIS.

BRYANT HAS PREVIOUSLY BEEN INTERVIEWED BY SPECIAL

AGENTS, FBI, RE ABOVE MATTER, BRYANT ADVISED ATFD THAT HE

HAS BEEN THINKING ABOUT HIS INTERVIEW WITH FBI WITH

PARTICULAR REFERENCE TO FIRESIDE INN, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS,
BRYANT STATED HE TELEPHONICALLY CONTACTED TWO OF HIS

SOURCES IN CHICAGO RE FIRESIDE INNAAND IT WAS DETERMINED

3 I
THROUGH HZS CHICAGO SOURCES THAT THERE WAS NO FIRESIDE INN BUT

A vingexhoe INN IS LOCATED AT ONE FOUR FOUR EIGHT NORTH

WELLS 7 AVENUE, CHICAGO, BRYANT'S CHICAGO SOURCES aie i: y) bot

' 7° SbF-Suh OOS, nel to a

LA Minneapolis . 5b Y a [reat ‘Ve i
4)" ata : : ah Ke fer

a es

iocld: 3293977 Page 37

Sent



ED-36 (Rev, $-22-64)

ra

FBI
Date:

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

PAGE TWO

: :
THAT THIS IS A PLACE WHERE Ge CAN PURCHASE PILLS AND THAT
AE BROIEER of South oe Ae

ANTHONY MANCINO, AKA TONY waxcrno! A MINNEAPOLIS HOODLUN,
ANTHONY WANCENO, One Macy
HAS MADE AT LEAST TWO OR THREE BUYS AT THE FIREPLACE INN
WITHIN THE LAST YEAR, MANCINO TAKES THE PILLS OUT IN
PICKLE JARS,

FOR INFO, TONY MANCINO HAS RECENTLY BEEN CONVICTED .
FOR GUN CHARGE BY ATFD.

CHICAGO SOURCES ADVISE BRYANT THAT PRESENTLY THERE ARE
TWO YOUNG, BIG INDIVIDUALS FROM MINNEAPOLIS HANGING OUT AT TH

FIREPLACE INN, ONE IS SUPPOSEDLY SQUARE~JAWED.

THE CHICAGO OFFICE HAS, BY TELETYPE, BEEN REQUESTED
TO RESOLVE THE VARIATION IN THE NAME OF THE INSTITUTION AT
ONE FOUR FOUR EIGHT NORTH WELLS, IT BEING NOTED THAT MATCHES

: RECOVERED AT THE SCENE OF MRS, PIPER'S RECOVERY BORE THE NAME|
f

FIRESIDE INN AT THE SAME ADDRESS. oe Hee
» ATTORNEY FOR RONALD L. DY, DID NOT RECONTACT|

i
THE MINNEAPOLIS OFFICE AUTHORIZING INTERVIEW WITH POLYGRAPH

OF HIS CLIENT TODAY AS HE HAD PREVIOUSLY INDICATED.
—

be : :
nw Appesvedbocld:.32989775__ Page 38. Sent . M_ . Per



€D-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

Le

(Priority)

PAGE THREE

MR. JOHN NORTON, MINNESOTA STATE PAROLE OFFICER HANDLING

BERNARD J. O'DONNELL, SUSPECT, ADVISED THAT HE HAD, '. THROUGH

O'DONNELL'S PARAMOUR, INSTRUCTED O'DONNELL TO CONTACT HIM
IMMEDIATELY, AND AS OF THE CLOSE OF BUSINESS THIS DATE,
O'DONNELL HAD NOT YET MADE THIS CONTACT, NORTON WILL
ADVISE AS SOON AS ‘O'DONNELL REACHES HIM OR O'DONNELL'S
PAROLE iS VIOLATED, ~ : :

RESULTS OF INTERVIEW WITH WILLIAM MARCUS RAY NOT
COMPLETE AND WILL BE FURNISHED TOMORROW. i

INVESTIGATION AT MINNEAPOLIS HAS DETERMINED THAT
GOTTFRIED RODERICK \ ONENBERGER REQUESTED THE TITLE OF
HIS NINETEEN SIXTY-S1x HODGE HARD-TOP BE ,MAILED TO HIM

IN CALIFORNIA BY AN ASSOCIATE, GARY DURING EARLY

?

oe
?

JULY, NINETEEN-SEVENTY-TWO, IT WAS LEGO'S* UNDERSTANDING

VON KRONENBERGER INTENDED TO SELL THIS VEHICLE IN :

CALIFORNIA, APPROPRIATE INQUIRY HAS BEEN REQUESTED OF LOS

ANGELES AND SACRAMENTO CONCERNING THIS CAR. THE SEATTLE

OFFICE IS CONTINUING THEIR INQUIRY REGARDING VON KRONENBERGER|

ae

nw ASP edoera+39909775—Pagea9——- Sent ______-___M_ - Per



ee a
2 FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64) e ; e@

1
1
I
a . . !

tet : i 1
aan . . |
Fel H

Date: f

t
1

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

MP 7-567
PAGE FOUR =

IN BRITISH COLUMBIA AND HAS NOT LOCATED HIM AS OF THIS DATE.
- INVESTIGATION HAS DEVELOPED RICHARD STAVENS AWES, DOB

i JULY TWENTY-THREE, THIRTY-TWO, AND JOHN CHRISTOPHER BJORNSON,
DOB AUGUST THREE, THIRTY-FIVE, AS POSSIBLE SUSPECTS. ; AWES

: WAS PREVIOUSLY REPORTED AS THE OWNER OF A VEHICLE ABANDONED ds
IN ST, LOUIS PARK, MINNESOTA, BEARING NORTH DAKOTA LICENSE
PLATES, AS RESULT OF INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED IN THIS REGARD,
i. ‘ INFORMATION DEVELOPED THAT AWES AND BJORNSON HAVE HAD NO

VISIBLE MEANS OF SUPPORT BUT ARE APPARENTLY SPENDING A GREAT

DEAL OF MONEY. INVESTIGATION BEING CONDUCTED TO ESTABLISH
THEIR WHEREABOUTS ON PERTINENT DATES, THE IDENTITY OF
RELATIVES AND FRIENDS, AND COMPLETE BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION
TO DETERMINE THEIR POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT. :
INVESTIGATION IS CONTINUING TO COMPLETELY IDENTITY AND

f
INTERVIEW JOE a IFF (PHON), THE FRIEND OF ROCCO SALVATORE

LUPINO, AND JOHN MANCINO. ‘

THE FOLLOWING IDENTIFIED PERSONS HAVE BEEN ELIMINATED

LL anit

Approved: =o Sent M Per
NW 55193 Docra:a298Rerie! Agent ip Charge U.S.Government Printing Office: 1972 — 455-574



“FBI

Fl Date:

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

'
|
!
t
I
!
!
f
i}
|
if
!
1
!
1
}
I

(Priority)

MP 7-567
PAGE FIVE

FROM THE PERIOD OCTOBER FOURTEEN THROUGH SIXTEEN, SEVENTY-TWO:
: WALTER LEON arntzen, DOB AUGUST TWO, THIRTY-EIGHT; JOHN BECK,
; DOB MARCH NINE, Ly FBI NUMBER FIVE ONE NINE TWO TWO
THREE B; EDWARD BIALICK, DOB MARCH NINETEEN, THIRTY; JAMES BK,
DOB MAY TEN, THIRTY-NEINE, Bt NUMBER FOUR FIVE TWO ONE SEVEN

EARL ARTHUR ea DOB, sULY FIVE, FORTY; FBI NUMBER FOUR ZERO
TWO NINE SIX TWO D; THOMAS M, GREY, DOB AUGUST TEN, TWENTY-FOUR
: HARRY L, HALSETH, DOB NOVEMBER TWENTY-FIVE, THIRTEEN; JQHN B.
uaryis, DOB NOVEMBER SEVENTEEN, THIRTY~THREE; PAUL V.- BARRIS,
DOB JANUARY TWENTY-FIVE, TWENTY-THREE, FBI NUMBER TWO’ FIVE
FIVE FOUR EIGHT SEVEN SIX; JAMES OFSKY, DOB OCTOBER
TWENTY-SEVEN, FORTY-ONE; EDWARD P, MINCHOW, DOB FEBRUARY
"EIGHTEEN, TWENTY; GUY B. MOEL(ER, DOB JULY FOURTEEN, ee

v4
JOHN RULAND SEARLES, DOB NOVEMBER TWENTY-FIVE, THIRTY; JOHN
teeta ——

CHARLES * WALL, FBI NUMBER TWO FOUR EIGHT FOUR NINE “FOUR F;

MARTIN JOHN watts, DOB MAY TWENTY-NINE, TWENTY-FIVE, FBI

NUMBER FOUR NINE BIGHT SIX EIGHT FOUR NINE.

Approved: _______dk Sent 7 M - Per
NW 55193 Docla:32Smeriah Aganjdndgharge - ~U,S.Government Printing Office: 1972 — 455-574



“FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code}

(Priority) 1

PAGE SIX : iH

MINNEAPOLIS DIVISION IS CLOSELY FOLLOWING INVESTIGATION
AT CHICAGO CONCERNING THE ADDRESS OF ONE FOUR FOUR EIGHT
NORTH WELLS TO DEVELOP WHETHER THERE ARE PERSONS FROM THE
MINNEAPOLIS AREA FREQUENTING THAT ESTABLISHMENT AND TO
RESOLVE THEIR CORRECT NAMES,

ARMED AND DANGEROUS,

END,

Approved: wu Sent Mae Per eee
Special Agent in Charge . U.S.Government Printing Office: 1872 — 455-574
WW)55193 Docld:32989775 Page 42
‘ae



+

“ FD-36 (Rev, 5-22-64)

FBI
Date: 11/8/72

Transmit the following in__mo## PLAINTEXT

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via DELETYPE NITEL

(Priority)

TOs ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (7-14266)
FROM: SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567) (P)
| PINAP. 00s MP. DAILY SUMMARY TELETYPE

ARRANGEMENTS HAVE BEEN COMPLETED a POLYGRAPH
TTERVIEW OF SUSPECT BERNARD FRANCIS of DONNELL, FBI NUMBER
SIX EIGHT FIVE TWO EIGHT FIVE E, FOR NOVEMBER NINE, NEXT. —
ARRANGEMENTS HAVE ALSO BEEN COMPLETED TO RE=RUN SUSPECT

WILLIAM MARCUS hy, FBI NUMBER SEVEN THREE TWO TWO FIVE
generar

; EIGHT C, WHO IS CURRENTLY BEING HELD ON MURDER CHARGE IN
THE ST. LOUIS COUNTY JAIL, DULUTH, MINN.
JOHN CHRISTOPHER saonkson, DOB AUGUST THREE, THIRTY=
FIVE, AND A CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF SUSPECT RICHARD S. auks,
DOB JULY TWENTYTHREE, THIRTYTWO, ADVISED TODAY HE DESIRED

TO Licata HIMSELF OF ANY INVOLVEMENT IN THE PINAP, CASE,

STATING HE WISHED TO BE INTERVIEWED BY POLYGRAPH AND WAS
: ae Sus 0 6%

= MINNEAPOLIS
TES: RASOMS1)

AG) , a ae

NW os BROW rarszas97 75“ Page—ag——— » Sent



“T 7

_ £D-36 (Rev, $-22.64)

“FBI

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

1
i
'
1
'
t
t
1
Date: H
1
!
1
i}
|
j
1
L

PAGE Two
ATTEMPTING TO CONVINCE AWES THAT HE SHOULD DO THE SAME.
A SEP ARATE COMMUNICATION WILL BE SUBMITTED REQUESTING
: ay POLYGRAPH INTERVIEW OF BOTH BJORNSON AND AWES.
INQUIRY IN THE ESKO, MINN., AREA HAS BEEN CONDUCTED
IN EFFORT TO DEVELOP SUSPECTS FROM THAT GENERAL AREA WHO
WOULD KNOW THE REVEREND KENNETH B. HENDRICKSON, PASTOR OF
THE APOSTOLIC LUTHERAN CHURCH IN GOLDEN VALLEY, MINN., THE
PERSON WHO RECEIVED THE FIRST CALL CONCERNING THE WHEREABOUTS
OF MRS. PIPER, CONTACT WITH HOWARD St IARBORG, | A BROTHER~
: IN-LAW OF HENDRICKSON, WHO RESIDES IN ESKO, RESULTED IN
ONE POSSIBLE SUSPECT, A WILLIAM JAMES THOMPSON, wHO IS
ALLEGEDLY NOW RESIDING IN MINNEAPOLIS ieee ADDRESS UNKNOWN,
_ EFFORTS ARE BEING MADE TO LOCATE THOMPSON, DEVELOP COMPLETE
" BacKGROUND INFORMATION, MAKE A DETERMINATION OF HIS
ACTIVITIES DURING THE PERTINENT DATES, AND THEREAFTER

INTERVIEW.

INVESTIGATION OF ROYAL KENNETH HAYES CONTINUES IN THE
ShSirecineeaenreare sence yan Zo

i

Approved: —_____i Sent M_ Per
3 . :
NW 55193 pocra: 323889% Agent in,Gharge

1 FLU. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971 413-135



: € :
— i : - - A. Se eo ~

~ Fb-26 (Rev-s-22-64), . mo

FB!

‘ Date:

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority) -

PAGE THREE a

AREA OF HIS FINANCIAL BACKGROUND, WITH INQUIRY BEING
DIRECTED TOWARDS THE REVIEW OF HIS INCOME TAX RETURNS
AND BANKRUPTCY PROCEEDINGS. HAYES TOOK VOLUNTARY
BANKRUPTCY APPROXIMATELY TWO YEARS AGO. DUN AND BRADSTREET
’ HAS: NO RECORD CONCERNING THE DERRICK COMPANY, THE COMPANY
HE IS PRESENTLY ASSOCIATED WITH.
NO ADDITIONAL TWENTY =<DOLLAR FEDERAL RESERVE RANSOM
NOTES RECOVERED TODAY.
i IN ADDITION TO CONTACT WITH CORPORATE HEADS OF THE
VARIOUS BANKING CHAINS IN MINNEAPOLIS, PERSONAL CONTACT
WAS MADE TODAY WITH ALL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS IN NORTHERN
MINNEAPOLIS, REQUESTING THAT THEIR STAFF MEMBERS RENEW
“THEIR EFFORTS IN CHECKING TWENTY«DOLLAR BILLS RECEIVED
IN THE BRANCH BANKS AGAINST THE PINAP RANSOM LIST.
INVESTIGATION IS CONTINUING OF THOSE PERSONS WHO MADE
CASH PAYMENTS AT THE AMERICAN FINANCE COMPANY, FOUR THO.

Approved:

Se: : :
NW 55193 Docld: 349Ra7, nt - M° Per

@harge ” Pee Seer



t ¢
PU-36 (Rev, 5-22-64) @ : e@

1
t
1
1
t
{
FBI H
: Date: H
° {
Transmit the following in |
: (Type in plaintext or code) .
+ 1
Via
(Priority) it
wo + + Le
MP 7-567

PAGE FOUR -

ZERO FIVE, WEBBER PARKWAY, MINNEAPOLIS.
THE FOLLOWING PERSONS WERE ELIMINATED TODAYs
PAUL RICHARD ANTONIAK, DOB JUNE THREE, NINETEEN, OR

4
JUNE THREE, TWENTYONE, CLEVELAND, OHIO; LEANDER BUTKIEWICZ,
(en STS AICHE

, DOB.JANUARY TWENTYONE, TWENTYEIGHT; THOMAS JAMES FRE CH,

DOB SEPTEMBER TWENTYTWO, FORTYTHREE; JOHN VICKERS H. ERSON,
ain i %

DOB NOVEMBER SEVEN, THIRTYFOUR; KENNETH ALBERT JRAKOLA,
eT
DOB MAY TWENTYNINE, THIRTYONE; THOMAS JEFFREY yets6n, DOB
. MARCH TEN, FORTYSEVEN.
ARMED AND DANGEROUS

_ END.

Approved: Sent M , Per

$$ $$$$§.—$$—$—_________
NW 55193 Doora: 329R 9b Agent dn Gharge : °. Yeu. 5. covERNMENT PRINTING OFFicE: 1971~413—123



FD-36 (Rev, 5-22-64)

e
.

if
le
1
1
t
in i
FBI H
Date: 11/9/72 H
Transmit the following in PLAINTEXT i
(Type in plaintext or code) 1
Via TELETYPE NITEL i
(Priority) 7
fom rer nn p SABPSSneTenseren=s)
TO: ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (7-14266) G25 7- O44
@
FROM: SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567) (P) : ; ?
PINAP. 00; MP. DAILY SUMMARY TELETYPE

i >
BERNARD FRANCIS one ELL, FBI NUMBER SIX EIGHT ;
FIVE TwO EIGHT FIVE E, INTERVIEWED TODAY WITH POLYGRAPH

BY CHICAGO EXAMINER SA HERBERT F, BRIICK. SUFFICIENT
REACTION TO CONTROL“TYPE QUESTIONS was OBTAINED TO AFFORD -
BASE OF COMPARISON WITH PERTINENT QUESTIONS RELATING TO
PIPER KIDNAPING, BASED ON THE CHARTS OBTAINED, IT APPEARS

O'DONNELL IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PIPER KIDNAPING, NOR

DOES HE KNOW WHO IS RESPONSIBLE,

IGEMENTS HAVE BEEN COMPLETED AND SUSPECT WILLIAM

MARCUS WILL BE RUN ON THE POLYGRAPH TOMORROW AT THE
harness Suh
2-356 P- Su ajo

ST. LOUIS COUNTY JAIL, DULUTH, MINNESOTA. i
Saonetod

QD - mnwerronis
TES:RAS
a)

Approved: *~ Sent M Per

Pre .
SpecialiAgent in Charge + | Pru.s. covernmenr privtine OFF

ia
—NW_55193 Doocld:32989775 Page 47

ys '
24971 —413—195



Transmit the following in

PD-36 (Revi $-22-64) e@ . ; e

“FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code) 7

Le

(Priority)

PAGE Two 7 : -

LINDA BLOCK, WIFE OF CARL BIOCK, LONGMONT, COLORADO,

WHO DISAPPEARED WITH GOTTFRIED RODERICK V KRONENBERGER,

TELEPHONICALLY CONTACTED HER MOTHER, CARMA nadenusmn, AT
WEST BEND, IOWA. CALL RECEIVED NOVEMBER SEVEN, LAST.
RASSMUSEN SPOKE WITH VON KRONENBERGER, WHO IS REPORTED TO
HAVE STATED, "WE'RE ON THE RUN BECAUSE OF WHAT HAPPENED
In CALIFORNIA, AND THIS IS THE FIRST CHANCE WE'VE HAD TO

CONTACT ANYONE." NO MENTION WAS MADE OF A KIDNAPING.

RASSMUSEN INFORMED CARL BLOCK SHE DID NOT KNOW FROM WHERE

THE CALL ORIGINATED.

ARRANGEMENTS ARE BEING MADE TO CAUSE THE TWENTY-DOLLAR

FEDERAL RESERVE NOTES IN THE DEPOSITS OF THE SPORTMAN'S

-RETREAT, THE STREAMLINER BAR, AND THE BLUE NOTE BAR TO BE

CHECKED AGAINST THE PINAP RANSOM LIST. ALL THREE OF THESE
LOCATIONS WERE ALONG THE PAYOFF ROUTE AND HAVE FIGURED

STKEXMEMMESRERAEK
DUSXRASKXLER

Approved: i
nw 55193 Docra: SPSSsH Sephda Gorse 1) Yeu. covenncr pti orncx: 171 4t2—195

Sent : M | Per



<
FD-36 (Rev.’5-22-64) e@ ®

x

“FBI

Date:

PAGE THREE 2
ACTIVELY IN THE INVESTIGATION OF THIS CASE since its
INCEPTION.
NO ADDITIONAL RANSOM BILLS RECOVERED TODAY AND
VIGOROUS, conTINUOUS INQUIRY BEING MADE AMONG THE CASH~
» PAYING CUSTOMERS OF THE AMERICAN FINANCE COMPANY, WHERE
THE ONE BILL WAS LOCATED.
JEFFREY AGLAN OLSEN, FBI NUMBER ONE SIX ZERO SIX

‘EIGHT SEVEN F, WILL APPEAR IN U. S. DISTRICT COURT,

MINNEAPOLIS, NINE A.M., NOVEMBER TEN, NEXT, ON A MOTION
HEARING IN CONNECTION WITH THE ITSP AND FFA CHARGES FOR
WHICH HE IS STILL BEING HELD IN THE HENNEPIN COUNTY JAIL,
MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA.

. INVESTIGATION TODAY REVEALED ROYAL KENNETH ues

f
HAS FORMED COMPANY KNOWN AS HAYES ENTERPRISES. THIS

COMPANY WAS FORMED IN JANUARY, SEVENTYTWO. APPROPRIATE

INVESTIGATION IS BEING CONDUCTED TO DETERMINE THE FINANCIAL

s

Approved: Sent M . Per

Ae
Special Agent in Charge
WW_55193 _DocId:32989775 Page 49



«
FD-36.(Rev, 5-22-64) @ 7

FBl
Date:

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

(Priority)

PAGE FOUR -
STRUCTURE OF THIS COMPANY PRIOR TO AND SUBSEQUENT TO
THE PIPER KIDNAPING. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ALSO
DEVELOPED TODAY REVEALED HAYES HAS A MAILING ADDRESS ON
OLD SHAKOPEE ROAD IN BLOOMINGTON, MINNESOTA, THE NATURE
OF THE OPERATION AT THAT ADDRESS WILL BE DETERMINED.
THE FOLLOWING INDIVIDUALS WERE ELIMINATED TODAY:
THOMAS Day BRagLEY, FBI NUMBER. SEVEN EIGHT SIX FIVE
RIVE ONE F; BERNARD FRANCIS O/DONNELL, SUPRA; WILFRED
a ~
ROZMOND PEDERSON, FBI NUMBER NINE EIGHT NINE SIX NINE
THREE B; poxauy oo varices, FBI NUMBER ONE THREE ZERO

&
THREE THREE ZERO D;_ EUGENE RAE SIMVER, FBI NUMBER ONE

THREE SIX SEVEN NINE EIGHT D.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS

END.

Approved: i
NW 55193 poeta: 8d Asgitda Ghose



FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)
5

£

Transmit the following in

FBI
Date: 11/10/72
“PLAINTEXT

(Type in plaintext or code)

Viq TELETYPE NITEL
(Priority)
TO: ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (714266) /¢(/S 07 /
FROM: SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567) (P) a ff
au PINAP. 00: MP. DAILY SUMMARY TELETYPE

f
WILLIAM MARCUS ek, PBI NUMBER SEVEN THREE ZERO TWO

FIVE EIGHT C, RE-RUN ON POLYGRAPH TODAY AT DULUTH, MINN.

BASED ON CHARTS OBTAINED, IT DOES NOT APPEAR RAY IS

DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN THE KIDNAPING OR THAT HE KNOWS WHO

COMMITTED THE ey

WILLIAM RAYMOND PRUITT, FBI NUMBER NINE TwO NINE
a

TWO TWO THREE A, THE PERSON WHO WAS IDENTIFIED BY CG

NINE EIGHT FIVE SIX - PCI AS THE ONE HE BELIEVES IDENTICAL

e if &
-WITH UNSUB NUMBER ONE, AKA T AND “AL, MA," HAS BEEN

CONTINUOUSLY INVESTIGATED AS A POSSIBLE SUSPECT IN THIS

CASE SINCE ITS INCEPTION AND HAS NOT AS YET BEEN ,

ELIMINATED, INQUIRY CONTINUING IN EFFORT TO RESOLVE

Q)- uoweronts * ve E67 Subs O70



FD-36 (Rev, 5-22-64)

FBI

t

t

i

1

i

7 !

Date: |

i

Transmit the following in {

(Type in plaintext or code) H

Via —_ H

(Priority) 1

eager enw + L
MP 7-567
PAGE TWO

PRUITT'S POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT.
a ON NOVEMBER NINE, LAST, THE INTELLIGENCE UNIT,

ESSEX DETACHMENT, ONTARIO PROVINCIAL POLICE (OPP)

fd
TELEPHONICALLY INFORMED THE DETROIT DIVISION THAT

GOTTFRIED RODERICK VON KRONENBERGER AND Lanpa Ka sibcx

?

WERE ARRESTED IN ESSEX AND CHARGED WITH POSSESSION OF
STOLEN RROPERTY. VON KRONENBERGER WAS DRIVING THE
NINETEEN SIXTYSIX GRAY DODGE MONACO. VON KRONENBERGER,
” ACCORDING TO CANADIAN AUTHORITIES, IS A SUSPECT IN AND
WILL PROBABLY BE CHARGED IN CANADA WITH THE MURDER OF
A WINDSOR, ONTARIO, MAN.

THE DETROIT OFFICE IS INTERVIEWING VON KRONENBERGER
“gopay IN AN EFFORT TO DETERMINE HIS WHEREABOUTS ON THE
PERTINENT DATES, EXAMINE ANY U. S. TWENTY-DOLLAR FEDERAL

RESERVE NOTES IN HIS POSSESSION FOR COMPARISON WITH

RANSOM LIST, AND DETERMINE IF VON KRONENBERGER WAS IN

de. i
Nw Apmevedbacld:32989775 Page 52° Sent i M Per

7 ! ragTr one as Ta eea! Ha eanaeameaenenier emaenna



Bane eee apse as cea eaeeeeaeeaeeaaead
ee 6

FD-96 (Rev, 5-22-64) vee

. FBI

Date:

Transmit the following in »

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

PAGE THREE
POSSESSION OF ANY HAIRPIECES FOR MICROSCOPIC COMPARISON
WITH ITEMS RECOVERED IN THE STOLEN SEVENTYTWO MONTE CARLO.
JEFFERY ALLAN ous APPEARED IN U. S. DISTRICT COURT,
MINNEAPCLIS, TODAY FOR MOTION OF DISCOVERY AND SUPPRESSION
OF EVIDENCE. NO RULING WAS MADE BY THE COURT, AND THE
DEFENSE WAS INSTRUCTED TO SUBMIT WRITTEN BRIEFS WITHIN

TEN DAYS, AND THE PROSECUTION, THEREAFTER, WILL HAVE

: FIVE DAYS TO REPLY. THE COURT INDICATED HE WOULD SET
TRIAL DATE FOR OLSEN EARLY IN DECEMBER, SEVENTYTWO.

AS YET, NO FURTHER TWENTY-DOLLAR FEDERAL RESERVE
NOTES OF THE RANSOM MONEY HAVE APPEARED IN MINNEAPOLIS.
,CONTINUED CONTACT WITH PERSONS WHO HAVE MADE CASH PAYMENTS
AT AMERICAN FINANCE HAS NOT DEVELOPED ANY PATTERN AS
TO THE SOURCE OF CASH CUSTOMERS OBTAINED WHEN MAKING
PAYMENTS TO THE FINANCE COMPANY.

| . Iv is CONTEMPLATED THAT ON NOVEMBER SEVENTEEN, NEXT,

vik

NW 55193 ocld:329389775 Page 53 bl + 4 .
35: P ee cteeeee Sent MoO «Cer eee



os e

F5-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Date:

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

1
\
1
t
t
|
FBI 1
i}
I
1
I
{
1

(Priority)

PAGE FOUR

THE VICTIM WILL BE PRANSPORTED TO THE RECOVERY SITE
ale UNDER CONDITIONS SIMILAR TO THOSE OF THE ACTUAL KIDNAP ING
FOR THE PURPOSE OF ATTEMPTING TO RESOLVE THE ROUTE OF
TRAVEL TAKEN BY THE KIDNAPPERS WITH MRS, PIPER AND TO
DETERMINE IF SHE MaY, BY MAKING THIS TRIP, RECALL SOME
DETAILS NOT PREVIOUSLY MENTIONED.

THE FOLLOWING PERSONS WERE ELIMINATED TODAY:

MICHAEL FRANCIS eee FBI NUMBER TWO NINE

- a
SIX SIX TWO SEVEN F; EARL BRUCE, DOB MARCH THREE,

TWENTYONE; “ESTER BRIN aye, pos APRIL NINE, FORTYSEVEN;

WILLIAM MARCUS FBI NUMBER SEVEN THREE ZERO TWO PIVE
fen a

EIGHT C.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS

hk : 7 7
nw Aparoy dp oora+395989775—Page—54——— Sent eo Ms. Per



+
|
|
i
|

FD‘36 (Rev. 5-22-64) e@ : @

eet " 5

Date; 10/17/72

PLAINTEXT

Transmit the following in
TELETYPE . NITEL

Via oy
(Priority) 1

1
1
‘
t
|
4
FBI !
1
1
i
!
(Type in plaintext or code) H

1

a Ww)
TO: ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (7-14266) /6/30f ~ J &
FROM: SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567)  (P)

PINAP, oO: MP, DAILY SUMMARY TELETYPE, MS

POLYGRAPH INTERVIEW OF WILLIAM MARCUS , FBI NUMBER

SEVEN THREE ZERO TWO FIVE EIGHT C, BEING HELD ON MURDER

CHARGE, CONDUCTED BY CHICAGO POLYGRAPH OPERATOR, DULUTH,

MINNESOTA, OCTOBER SIXTEEN, LAST. ATTORNEY FOR RAY INFORMED
HE CONSIDERS RAY TO BE PATHOLOGICAL LIAR, CHARTS OF RAY'S
RESPONSES TO VARIOUS PERTINENT QUESTIONS IN THE EXAMINATION
“TEND TO INDICATE THAT HE IS NOT DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN THE
KIDNAPPING, THAT HE DOES NOT KNOW WHO COMMITTED THE KIDNAPPING,
NOR WOULD HE REFUSE TO TELL THE FBI IF HE KNEW WHO DID XIDNAP
MRS. PIPER, BECAUSE OF RESTRICTIONS PLACED ON TEST QUESTIONS
PREVENTING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF SUITABLE CONTROL QUESTIONS
FOR COMPARISON WITH PERTINENT QUESTIONS, AND BECAUSE RAY MAY
ACTUALLY BE A PATHOLOGICAL LIAR, THE EXAMINER'S OPINION MUST
BE QUALIFIED AND TEST RESULTS CONSIDERED INDEFINITE, AT END

OF EXAMINATION, RAY INDICATED A spor alae TQ CONTINUE THE
S Sus DS?

@: Winneapolisyry
TES :wkb Wek
Apprbbdd: sn
NW 5519¢/\Doclt: se Spee ABaseiwTharge.
pet oh iL eaten 2 |

“Ay



FD-36 (Rev, 5-22-64) @ > : 8

wee

, Date: *

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

\
|
|
|
|

Het

FBI H
1
|
1
1
i
i
i

(Priority).

MP 7-567

PAGE TWO

EXAMINATION AT A LATER DATE TO DEFINITELY ESTABLISH HIS
INNOCENCE IN REGARD TO THE PIPER KIDNAPPING,
INVESTIGATION HAS DETERMINED THE CORRECT NAME FOR THE
BAR IN CHICAGO IS "THE FIREPLACE INN." CHICAGO IS CURRENTLY
» CONDUCTING EXTENSIVE INVESTIGATION TO DETERMINE THE IDENTITY
OF ANY MINNEAPOLIS HOODLUMS WHO MAY BE FREEQUENTING THE BAR,

NEITHER RONALD L. CA) OR HIS ATTORNEY, MR. FINK, HAVE

CONTACTED THE MINNEAPOLIS OFFICE AND IT IS TO’ BE NOTED THAT
FINK ZNDICATEDTTHEY WOULD IF HE WOULD SUBMIT TO POLYGRAPH
“INTERVIEW, i ,

JOHN NORTON, STATE PAROLE OFFICER FOR BERNARD J. 0'
SUSPECT, ADVISED TODAY CONTACT HAS BEEN MADE WITH 9@'DONNELL

WILL BE MADE TO CONDUCT PENETRATIVE INTERVIEW WITH O'DONNELL
AT THE TIME HE REPORTS TO HIS PAROLE OFFICER. O'DONNELL IS
CURRENTLY RESIDING WITH GLORIA pooxten, TWO ONE SIX FIVE

SUBURBAN AVENUE, ST, PAUL, MINNESOTA, PREVIOUS ATTEMPTS TO

a

 RaiaAaAe EASE

3

AND O'DONNELL IS TO REPORT TO NORTON'S OFFICE TOMORROW. EFFORTS

Approved; —__ i Sent M.S éPer
NW 55193 Docla:32Sgeuikd ApanteirsSharge

U.S.Government Printing Office: 1972 — 455-574


t
-

ra i i" a

FD-96 (Rev. 5-22-64) e@ Paeuneal

’

af

1
|
1
{
t
. . t
FBI H
1
1 Date: f
1
Transmit the following in : |
if (Type in plaintext or code) '
!
Via Hl
(Priority) H
Li~.-+-- -—

MP 7-567
PAGE THREE

INTERVIEW BOOKLER WERE NEGATIVE IN THAT SHE REFUSED TO ADMIT
AGENTS AT THE RESIDENCE, RELATIVES OF BOOKLER HAVE BEEN
INTERVIEWED IN THE RECENT PAST AND FURNISHED INFORMATION
CONCERNING HER TRAVELLING WITH O'DONNELL TO MEXICO AND THE
ALLEGED PURPOSE OF THE TRIP BEING TO BUY A RANCH. GLORIA

IS ALLEGED TO HAVE RECENTLY INHERITED FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
FROM HER FATHER IN MARCH OF SEVENTY-TWO, FURTHER IDENTIFYING

INFORMATION CONCERNING, BOOKLER HAS NOT BEEN DEVELOPED,

. Z
, DEAN K, RIZER, MINNEAPOLIS, FAMILY PHYSICIAN FOR

2 D:

HARRY C, AND VIRGINIA P PER, ADVISED THAT SUBSEQUENT TO HER

RECOVERY, HE HAS EXAMINED MRS, PIPER ON THREE OCCASIONS, HE

TREATED HER ON THE DAY OF HER RELEASE FOR ABRASIONS OF THE
HE NOT:

WRIST WHICH WAS APPARENTLY CAUSED BY THE HANDCUFFS.
MRE, PIPER HAD IMPACTED DIRT UNDER HER FINGERNAILS AND IN TH!

SKIN PORES OF HER HANDS WHICH SHE STATED WAS CAUSED BY HER

DIGGING AT THE ROOTS OF THE TREE TO WHICH SHE WAS ‘CHAINED,
MRS. PIPER, WHEN FIRST EXAMINED BY HIM, WAS UNKEMPT AND

BLE} E T IG WAS e

Approved: AN. Sent M Per
NW 55193 Docta:329eeriel Agegkisharge - + U.S.Government Printing Office: 1972 — 455-574



FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64) @ oo ®

2 i .

oe
”
‘

FBI

7 Date:

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

MP 7-567

PAGE FOUR

HAD BOIDED HUMAN WASTE INTO HER CLOTHING. WHEN EXAMINED
ONE WEEK LATER SHE STILL HAD DIRT IMPACTED UNDER HER
FINGERNAILS AND THE ABRASIONS WERE THEN HEALING PROPERLY.
AT THE TIME OF INITIAL EXAMINATION SHE DID NOT EXHIBIT

ANY INSECT BITES WHICH HE ATTRIBUTES TO THE FACTS THAT SHE
STATED IT WAS COLD AND RAINY WHERE SHE WAS BEING HELD AND SHE
STATED ALSO SHE HAD BEEN FURNISHED INSECT REPELLENT WHICH
SHE HAD USED ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS, HE ADVISED HE DID NOT
- MAKE A WRITTEN REPORT AS SUCH; HOWEVER, WOULD BE WILLING TO
TESTIFY IN REGARD %O ‘HIS FINDINGS,

IND “FIONS HAVE BEEN DEVELOPED THAT JOHN CHRISTOPHER
BJORWSON, DOB AUGUST THREE, THIRTY-FIVE, HAS PREVIOUSLY BEEN
A PATIENT OF THE VA HOSPITAL IN ST. CLOUD, A REQUEST HAS BE.
SET OUT TO HAVE HIS VA FILE REVIEWED FOR ALL PERTINENT
INFORMATION REGARDING HIM, 7

THE FOLLOWING PERSONS WERE ELIMINATED TODAY:

i.
Approved: i
NW 55193" Docid: 325807 (m1 shat

hs

Sent M Per
U.S.Government Printing Office: 1972 — 455-574



FD-&6 (Rev. 5-22-64) @ vos 7 @

FBI

Date:

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

iF AG ART

(Priority)

PAGE FIVE 7

RICHARD HUNTER eae JR,, DOB AUGUST FOUR, FORTY-FOUR;
* THOMAS DEMUXDBRUM, JANUARY THREE, THIRTY-EOUR; JAMES WILLIAM

, caururie, DOB OCTOBER TWENTY-SIX, THIRTY-FIVE, FBI NUMBER
SEVEN THREE THREE FOUR FOUR EIGHT A; CRAIG RICHARD LEAQAN _

’ DOB AUGUST TWENTY-NINE, FIFTY; HUBERT MARE, DOB AUGUST EIGHT,
EIGHTEEN; RICHARD unpy Don MAY ONE, TWENTY-SEVEN; EDWARD
3. packets, DOB FEBRUARY SEVEN, FORTY-TWO; WILLIAM M, PECKELS,
DOB JANUARY TWENTY-TWO, FIFTY-TWO; DENNIS ARTHUR SKOGSTEAD,
_DOB JANUARY TWENTY-NINE, FORTY-TWO; JAMES TIMOTHY SKRYPEC,
DOB AUGUST TWENTY-ONE, FIFTY.

MINNEAPOLIS IS CONTINUING IN EFFORT TO IDENTIFY, LOCATE 1
AND INTERVIEW JOE ZUDCLIFF, AND FURTHER DEVELOP BACKGROUND zs
CONCERNING,AND CONTINUING TO DEVELOP BACKGROUND AND ACTIVITIES
‘OF RICHARD STAVENS AWES, DOB JULY TWENTY-THREE, THIRTY-TWO,
AND JOHN CHRISTOPHER BJORNSON,

ARMED AND DANGEROUS, = - :

END,

oe
Approved:
NW 55193' Docid: 32989775, , Pag

Sent M Per
U.S.Government Printing Office: 1972 — 455-574.



File N
Date Received.

het BeLeTH, AM

(3.23.

2 of Special Agent)
To Be Returned Yes { )
No (X)

PART we PELYOhY HP FAM er
Ray, COM TEAS:
}) ADAGE of are HEY CowEwT Te FAKE
PONE RAL ORFS.
2) LISTS oF QuESTWng 4 SHED
3) POhYERAPH cc yKATS

ce Aetna Salen mao

:

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 60

feted ame ae



MPs

” a can pen ania lemumruaaniae she
5.57 . Oly Fx44, WILDE AIT MAREOS RAY
afin PACE ) oF z. 2ifpa foe ;
ao ST ugels eouMtY SALE
BULLTY Ap. 7
al “ae car me : ro as
A IT MMA bb LA ba.

B..  MERE_NOO_ BOBY UH Ath ee.
ce dO. YOU SUSpEED. ywyere 14 THE PIPER KIPMAPL
bd yor ROW We _DNWAAPED MAS. P)PEA
5 ARE Yor syyeLrvER a THE PIPER Kipwippiit~
ba) 1s wea. sreay. About THE ALABAMA BIIVESS a Thee
BU NM We bar Thee f Von SPLOT LAST Semmen  TAUE
iy Hier yey eer? a1) adda B peeeeceeeeetceeceeeeeeeeeee ett
m4 pores AY EVIDEYCE FXIST WiicH COULD LINK Yoo WITH PKI
7 pb you. You CAW BEAT. TH. EMA Mua aTOre,
/0 a AYE THoueNT  — ABLT KIDNAPPING Ayan .
8)" KDYWER Anew

7) Bib. yoo KIBWAP. AIRS. PHPER

TL 1S fee THAT vp Know Above THE ppee KIRNWAP WHAT
YOU LEAAMED THRU jVMOCENT MEMES.

2? Sick LAST “TuLy HAVE You Fay Awvowk You AVE K Abed.

1G. Dip You TCL poaWA Yo4wSaW You HyVve 1% hitle. J.

7 ae
NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 61



MLS 7-Fb 74” ee Extse OF quem Whiéos yay
: tt ——— ree AT BOLvTH MIAM- profre

BO... po ANY OF The Foleo Wan YAYE | A.spEtIal...
eee Ma Me 70 YOU:

ar A) we - pLiMOIS
eons eee B) LAVAPL E ovis AMA STHASHHE
See 3 OAK + MISSISS IAP? ee

_R2.. A) ANGLERS HIVEN
ane 4) FISHERWANS PARADISE
c) SPORTS waws AETAEIT o~

Ra) FRECLACE WH ae
a. B) APART Sioe RESIIWAdAY,.
é) CoontAY Kiteyenw 2

a4. A} Spun BAS
~  B) Hovway Yieeager L
c) ZAVAES

as. A ) MR. STEAK ail
woo. 2 BD Beare KI
C) Me Pore as.

ve
NW 55193 DoclId:32989775 Page 62



ev. 1266-60)

Consent to Interview with Polygraph

1 UL Gyn AD ‘ [x &4_, consent

freely and voluntarily to be interviewed by. Special Agents of the

Federal Bureau of Investigation, which I also know as the FBI,

au in connection with WE PER i

THLY Z Z. IP72-

I agree to the use of the Polygraph or so-called "Lie Detector”
during this interview or any part of it, and I am willing to be
present at the time and place of interview for such time as nec-
essary to complete the interview. No threats or promises of any

kind have been made to me to obtain my consent to this interview.

ee

Witnesses:



"  FD-395 (Rev. 10-10-67) @ : : @

‘INTERROGATION; ADVICE OF RIGHTS

sRaBSy SESRSER . 7 , - me

YOUR RIGHTS ais :
, Place £ f. Letra Ge zt ra
. Date //- /4- 77)
Time /fige LL.
Before we ask you any questions, you must understand your rights.
You have the right to remain silent.

Anything you say can be used against you in court’

You have the right to talk to a lawyer for advice before we ask you any
questions and to have him with you during questioning. :

a If you cannot afford a lawyer, one will be appointed for you before any
questioning if you wish.

If you decide to answer questions now without a lawyer present, you
will still have the right to stop answering at any time. You also have the right
to stop answering at any time until you talk te a lawyer.

WAIVER OF RIGHTS

‘I have read this statement of my rights and I understand what my rights
are. Iam willing to make a statement and answer questions. I do not want a
lawyer at this time. I understand and know what I am doing. No promises or
threats have been made to me and no pressure or coercion of any kind has been
used against me.

Witness:

Witness:/

Time:

athe
NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 64



FD-840 (REV, 6.24.65)

Fs RMS P— SOF
Date, Reselved—/ Mb f72-.
From_WUAbiAM MAACUS RAY

(NAME OF CONTRIBUTOR)

COUMY TAIL
* (ADDRESS OF CONTRIBUTOR)
Ly ESOT A
(CITY AND STATE)
fy HERB EZ = BRUCK

(NAME OF SPECIAL AGENT)

“neni apt Sach decanters det ie aM aif oPtd ket gst dgeh sce

‘To Be Retumed 1 Yes Receipt giver 1 Yes
A ilo fa Ne
Besoription = pagr x or
‘ Qais Tok QuESjiOKS USER
RJEHBATS O8Th WED puaiee
POLYGANOH EXAM OF
Wreunm mracis PAY,
3.

2 ON etal ar At Na peat cher alae at BRdtabec BO

| _ Pe 67-1a GID

‘ i. a

! RTT
NW “S5195-DoeTarazssgTtS Page. 65. =



~owssasslidora: onary rpaadek V0 wo Bhevl ree “it

met : aparece nae : igsneeEasEEEELaEETSTEEnET! if
pasutapue’ -ou0u 1tesa/PCOnnaSnanase’ @ : seerapatene ay Gee Pasasassasesenets 325706 oo
faees 2-567 (9) pOIYORAPH Gus” Waklags ptigeus Kal

AON OE

. 1 My 33 YAS 5 BOB Ys /537
: esr.

SMPFED REPEATEOLY PUL Fe
SIVES RLAEKAAL pee 70 AAtChit:
AS Qesvelor €/3 [a7 AeesOER=

er # yin tAace ?
2. Ay 32 yes 04d ?
: Py Ho WEE RIBNEPFER pars. PIPER?

: (s YouR LAST NAME AYE

» BID yw Hie MAS BEER?
4 DID You APO SPER BURP

“Ie

or WU

z

5,
& YE COMTIED A CHINE Fea WHICH YOU VaR ARRESTED ?
F WERE YoU BORM IH ALABAMA?
& WAS TUE AMET) you SHEMET Sivew 4ss7T ruLy
PAR OF Zhe AYER RAs? .
GOA RYE FUCBBT ABET fiexapelva& Aveda p
BD YE NIBNAPRED ANSE aCe
fe. AY ABSWERBD ALL BF EAY QUESTIONS FRU UEULEY ?
2% pry aS LasT @ TRUTHFULLY f
Lt uP yee eve Wile KIBMAPPER MAS. PIPER Weulp Yeu
Fe USP
f2. BIS You Miew Agour TUE PpER ManePrd& Biron
f? NAPESEB?
es &o Yeu SEAL THE PYOMTE cAkhO USED iw THE rupee
: MIDUAPR Ha Oe
te foES THE SAFETY B&FoseT FOR WEY BAKE ALY
COMME CTEON WITH FRE Hie SPbIb EP

10 DID yur GER THE SAFETY pEeIsIT nok YKEX pW # BURELAAY .

J. (8 ALL THAT you piiou Wibe® Fee te Mints: WY be

WHAT Yel LEGANED THRU Pye. AeWwS MEDIA ?
: pk PPinH& wal



FD-395 (Rev. 10-10-67)

snr efocarion; ADVICE ecie RIGHTS

YOUR. RIGHTS"

Place ff XE Ll es Chey Jo.
Date Ger. ee £77

Time 20/5 Fae.

Before we ask you any questions, you must understand your rights.

You have the right to remain silent.

Anything you say can be used against you in court.

You have the right to talk to a lawyer for advice ‘before we ask you any
questions and to have him with you during questioning.

oe If you cannot afford a lawyer, one will be appointed for you before any
“questioning if you wish.

If you decide to answer questions now without a lawyer present, you
will still have the right to stop answering at any time. You also have the right
to stop answering at any time until you talk to a lawyer.

WAIVER OF RIGHTS

1 have read this statement of my rights and I understand what my rights
are. Iam willing to make a statement and answer questions. I do not want a
lawyer at this time. I understand and know what I am doing. No promises or
* threats have been made to me and no pressure or coercion of any kind has been
used against me.

4 ; SS
7 Signed JLE CL Wg AL Elbe |

aA Wk, WIT p4, etme aprete
PAI FUSS Ds

ah
NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 67



FD-328 (Rev. 12-6-60)

“Consent to Interview with Polygraph

I, ott ACY § AN , Cofisent
freely and voluntarily to be interviewed by Special Agents of the

Federal Bureau of Investigation, which I also know as the FBI,
sae in connection with CHE PIPER KI DNAPPINX
TA JUL 197

I agree to the use of the Polygraph or so-called "Lie Detector”
during this interview or any part of it, and I am willing to be
present at the time and place of interview for such time as nec-

. . essary to complete the interview. No threats or promises of any

kind have been made to me to obiain my consent to this interview.

(PhbalE faicoh 5h, teriragptlic, PAL, by
a Dep ML /6IDD. v7 hh ayphled
Place BY. Kas Crit aH ‘

ae.

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 68 * - ° fy see

IanEan-nnmaRane. Nanenet ‘em



| FD-395 (Rev. 10-10-67) «, @ >

a

TaSEERESr En one ds 7 : Ceaeeeeeses SAuBnaK SBEEREE “Me

INTERROGATION; ADVICE OF RIGHTS

YOUR RIGHTS

: Place DG Rreminsly
Date Seé@mnk ZL, 9 fhe AE, 1972
Time £2: 95 PY
Before we ask you any questions, you must understand your rights.
You have the right to remain silent.

Anything you say can be used against you in court.

You have the right to talk toa lawyer for advice before we ask you any -
questions and to have him with you during questioning. 5

If you cannot afford a lawyer, one will be appointed for you before any
‘questioning’ if you wish.

If you decide to answer questions now without a lawyer present, you

will still have the right to stop answering at any time. ‘You also have the right

to stop answering at any time until you talk to a lawyer.
WAIVER OF RIGHTS

‘L have read this statement of my rights and I understand what my rights
are. Iam willing to make a statement and answer questiohs. I do not want a
lawyer at this time. I understand and know what I am doing. No promises or
threats have been made to me and no pressure or coercion of any kind has been
used against me.

Mped Ft FBI ae Fn.

pce eage8, TT, ph Vater

Witness; = 7 ees

°

Sep EG 1G OA ,

Time:

eee vie
NW 55193 Docld:32989775 ‘Page 69° i



MP 7-567
MOE:ras i :
) : .

RE: WILLIAM MARCUS RAY.
also known as

e

Mark Savage

WILLIAM MARCUS RAY, also known
is presently in the st. Louis County Jail
action on a first degree murder charge.

as MARK SAVAGE,
pending court
Ray is originally

from Montgomery, Alabama, and was considered a suspect
at inasmuch as he did resemble the photograph cf one of the

Unknown Subjects in the PIPER kidnaping.

Investigation

at Superior, Wisconsin, reflected that one MARK SAVAGE,
who was believed to be identical with RAY, was alleged
to have attempted to purchase a mobile home, at which time

he reportedly showed large sums of money.

cos
NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 70 °‘ 7 ”

PO SCP-FYHE



Routing Slip *

07 (Ree. 9-5-69) (Copies to Offices Checked)_ 5
TO: SAC, i
“Albany J Houston CH Norfolk J Tampa
©} Albuquerque Indianapolis. (J Oklahoma City — [j Washington Field
(5 Alexandria Jackson Omaha TS Quam
Anchorage jack sonville j Philadelphia .
Ej Atenta | Kansas city} Phoonix TO LEGAT:
Baltimore Knoxville Pittsburgh Bern
(2 Birmingham [Las Vegas © Portland © Boan
Boston’ (EI Little Rock © Richmond (J Buenos Aires
Buffalo (J Los Angeles 5} Sacramento ©) Hong Kong

1 Butte Louisville {5} St. Louis London
COCharlotte ©} Memphis Salt Lake City ) Madrid .
i Chicago Sj Miami © San Antonio © Mexico, D.F.
CiCincinnati — ) Milwaukee © San Diego © Ottawa’
Cleveland — &&] Minncapolis 2) San Francisco} Paris
CjColumbia 5) Mobile Sen Juan © Rome
(J Dallas Nowark © Savannah © Tokyo
© Denver New Haven Seattle mt
Detroit CE) New Orleans ©} Springfield
CEI Paso (New York City ;
© Honolulu Date October 17, 1972

RE: Ur SIR Message‘ dated 10/17/72

fy, William Marcus
31/730258" ren

Retention

: ; For appropriate
© For information (5 optional [5 action

Ca surep, by

(J The enclosed is for your information. If used in a future report,
Co conceal all sources, (“] paraphrase contents,

(7) Biiclosed are corrected pages from report of SA
e

Remarks:

En.
Bufile
Urfile
7 x
7 .
* eee :
Sia ‘e

NW 55193 ‘DocId:32989775 Page 7i ° ce

en
SEARCHED ____iosxep £o~
SERALIZED 2 FED
GOT’ 0797.)
Fal—tannearoud

BA



LCLUNITED STATES OCPAPTYCNT CF JUSTICE
FEDERAL RUPFAU OF INVESTIGATION

NATIOMAL CR TME INFORMATION CENTER
CRIMINAL HISTCRY PECORD

i .
x a .

_auts RESPONSF BASED GN NUMER TC IDENTIFIER, “ONLY.

2belsy. 3 FRI MINNEAPOLTS MN FRI/7 30 25860

SEY/M PAC/W

WILLIAM MAPCUS .
FOC/13BAAU3T ID Sy TAAAAT ITT

~ “BYE /HAZ BT ANS GET SS 83
LADD TT TIONAL IDENTIFIERS = a
AKA/RAY, WILLIAM EUGENE/RAY, wilt Taw “RAY/RAY, MARCUS
EST/US NPE/I4D2A7L

MKE/ EH NAM/RAY POB/ AL

1 @ume 1- . . . : tos voeey

1

ARREST- AScCY/SO SAN DIEGO CO. CA NE USER RAYS
SD CRARGE NOPE oe cece cea ne ee a ee ne ne a .
oe OFFENSE /PURGL

CHARGE NN/C2 ¢ vee . weet bee eee
OFFENSC/VEH THEFT

AGCY/ ; ° :
COUNT NOvOL a. donee.
DRFENSE/VEH THEPT. DISP/CONVICTED
_. + CONFINED/6M PROB/3Y

“eobrt-~

‘ . _ .
fg . cee nee ce lee anes a cents es cause “pe aes tee ee ae
cycle "2+ =
| ARREST= AGCY/NRNTGOMERY PA AL ~ we “Ss
| CHARGE ND/O1 | . . ee ee ele oom
. OFFENSE /FRAUD
weet eee ee Teeeeee ee ne ewemineemenenmenen eam itt theeee Dee tee veeeee Gents cnepewenene a tems ede tee Gene ne pew \
p~ CLE | 3+
. ARPFST= ASCY/SU. MONTGOMERY CO, AL oe
: CHARGE NO/CL .
ee 2 OFFENSE/CONTRIB_QELING MINOR,
+ .
pod - oe _— . ae ceee a . . an —
a . 2
[ a a . 4
t e ‘ . . —— _. a ..
so. . _ . ° . Loe ee

7 - T $
haw asia Docta: or FICIAL E CNLY ~ ARREST DATA BASEO ON

FICATION BY SUP

CCB/971599 HGT/511

WILLTAM EUGENE

DATE RECORD PRINTSO LC/17/72

WGT/180

red

BExED I,

feo

~~]
“
in

>
a8
Bz ;
Ss
: ;
. .
|

FAGE



‘ - UNTTED STATES DEPAOTSENT CF JUSTICE

sO ” FEDERAL BURCAU OF INVESTIGATION

: NATIONAL CRIME INFORMATION CENTER”
A . a , CPTATNAL HESTGRY RECORD .

THIS RESPONSE BASED ON NUMERTC IDFNTIFIER CALY

wees Tame ba Se AIRED US ETD ane ao seaneen aeenes Leman attorney aunt momen at

>) herd. _ FAT MINNFAPOLIS MN- “0 gRIv73easec | _DATE RECORD PRINTED 10/17/72

cee een ca me tn ein amet cee ett mens sneer eee cone ey eee ee ee cee eens re ge eee
ARREST= AGCY/SN MONTGOMERY CO. AL ok ; Coole coe ce te ae ae, DATE ARR /C22763
CHARGE NO/O1 .
OFFENSE /FR AUC 4

CYCLE | 5-

“ORRREST= AGCY/BD PF CORR MONTGOMERY AL . mo . us “oS "DATE ARR/O32563
! Lo. CHARGE ND/OI foe ee bees Leo . bee Lees —_
ny IEFENSS/ARPEST DATA NOT RECEIVED ; ' . : .

i —EpiyRTl aceys ae ee eee pe my eee
ro. “COUNT NO/T1 we vi meee wee tee Le.

OFFENSE/FRAUC “DISP/CONVICTED « . . uo !
CONFINGO/LY6M an at / *

_ GUSTODV-  AGCY/ALK ILAYGO

A DATE/E 3266

sTatus7n

5- . oe ae oa eae te os i” we i . . meee . ‘

- AGLY/EO MONTE
CHARGE NO/CI
OFFFNSE/FRAUD=2 CTS

CAURT= AGLY/

yO, _ GNUNT Novo2 *”
Lo *_ GFFENSE/FRAUD__ OT

- FINE/S ido

y *

.4
3 o : Jock ; ae a .
. & . .

Se ee nett ee me nee nen nme rae tees eee eran scnmnaien mame ee menmees semen minim someth tee es bp nes oe

ca . . . ‘

“3
py 55}23 Docld: 3298977 FrHSIaLFBSF CNLY = ARREST DATA BASED CN
7 7 SCINCEDDOINT IN ENTICICATION AY CHRWeTTIANG ACEReY Op ent



_ _— ce ee wane LUNETEO STATES NFOLQTMENT CR JUSTICE
FENFPAL BUREAU PF ENVESTIGATION

. ot “NATIONAL GRIMF [NEGRMATICN CENTER ~~ . ‘ se
: UGRIMINAL HISTORY RECORO .

FHS OE eS eee eae eee nee cased cence nee cetmmtn tama pete cee oe neh came eee eee

209109003 . FBI MINNEAPOLIS MN | * LFBI/73C259C DATE RECORD PRINTED 19/17/72

WEVCLE Tm ve ne ee cence ee ee ee re eee veers een etnnes nenmmeenandheeneetens Sree ee ae see canteen aoe sen semen ates

ARREST= AGCY/BD CF CORR MONTGOMERY AL la. NAME USED/RAY, WILLTAM RAY Lo... DATE ARR /622464
CHARGE NDE : . .
CERENSE/ARREST CATA NOT RECEIVED , oe tenes eee le _ Dt te

. CHARGE NIZE? . 2 .
~ OFFENSE/ARREST OATA NOT_RECELVED a

uw. COURT=  AGCY/ . Le . ven gene cen emeee ste n ate f weer ee oe _ bee
Lot CAYNT NOSE L

AFFENSE/TRAUD DISP/CONVICTED i . : .

COUNT MasA2 ‘ . -—

MEFENSE/PAROLE VIOLATION DISP/CONVICTED. : :

OTHFR/CNTS TO WHICH PTSPOS AND SENTENCES APPLY

RTO cee ee ee
CUSTODY~ AGCY/ALK ILRYOC a oe re : . : !
A“DATE/O22464 STATUS/RECEIVEQ, | | |, . :

““ CYCLE” 8 ~

AQREST= AGCY/S@ MONTGOMERY CO« AL 2 ee , , : ; DATE ARR /CL26EE

i _ CHARGE NO/vL ao. . . . dee ewees cel ume . mn . . : -,.
OFFENSE/LARC i
°

ARREST AGCY/85 NF CORR NONTGGMERY AL : . : oo, . . ue OATE ARR/C223E6
> _ CEARGE NO/O1 oo
wee eres eee IF EENSE ARREST DATA NOT ~RECETVED_..__. eee ene teers o eetee neces eemenemnes neue cee a eens cen comers en teu teens een te eee ee een eee
3 COURT= AGCV/ . . we eee eee en , coe :
. COUNT NG/O1~ : .
7 7" GET ENSE/LAPC DISP/CONVICTEO . . Ce vate vue emee . ne vane meee ue :
an | CONFINEO/1Y1" .

Use ONLY = ARREST DATA BASED CN
EICATIO TIN CY CR

aresan iedes,

., PAGE 3 __



we

. , UNETED STATES DEPARTMONT CF JUSTICE
ees TTT "FEDERAL PUPFAU QF INVESTIGATION

NATIONAL CRIME INFORMATION CENTER . ‘ ~
= CRIMINAL HISTGRY RECORD
_ THIS RESPONSE BASED ON NUMERIG IOFNTIFIFR OMY eee

2L2197073 EBT. MINNEAPOLIS HN : -FRI/73025R0 oo... , DATE RECORD PRINTED 16/17/72

CUSTADY= —ACEY/ALK I BYOC _ Ss . . , oe, 0 . :

enna LCE EDL BODE Ac 0 a ee

CYCLE 19-

ARPEST= AGCY/BTOMINGHAM PD AL . . ae , ut " NATE ARR/191L766 : |
r CHARGE NO/CL Teens ete eames ee etter nnene ennne mune note oem mess renee pane erat ene rene ete in emmeemmementin te bar ns ammmenian seme owen eeaeen ow ef

OFFENSE/PEG EX~CON” ni $6 REL SD som ; ° ° |

on a ‘
evcLr Li- . . wes J
__ARREST= ASCY/SQ_JFFFERSON CM. AL NAME USED/RAY, MARCUS ATE SROUCTGT6O7 OO
CHARGE NAOT ve
ATEENSF /FRAUD=INSUFF FUNDS CHECK . eee ee
cCouURT=  AGCYs . . : va Ct hate e cece ne ee ee _ ees .
‘ . COUNT NO/21 :
Po OFFENSE /FAUD=INSUPF FUNDS. “ChECK DISP/CONVICTEO ee cect bee eee |
, FINE/$29° ° . ~ |

.CYCLE 12- : . . we

RR Ee eae eH ee cnn a ee DATE APP /LLOEER |
te CHARGE ML/e1 " ° See
OFFENSE/STATED CHARGE NOT CLEAR-RRL Coon . . OS. Cee “

r CHARGE NO/L2 . ve . ~ .
AFFENSE/NONMOVING TRAFFIC VIGL=NM ST OR LIC

a
CYCLE 13- . ee cane eee eee Md

VARREST= AGCY/SO MUSSELSHFLL CO. MT a _ en . oe : wot DATE ARR/G1IC70
. -——  AHARGE NC/O 1 . eee wane ee ae . wees . o
2 | OFFENSE/FRAUD-DEFRAUD INKEEPER ; : ee Te Tomes sss se seen

. - - - - ~ mee . a —_ wee tee
oa - - - q eee ae ” . wee
- . .
Ce ween see meee mee mee cmtenees one 0 meee ements ae ct ee fe me eae HAN min eee ee oe ere ete ne ot Reser mentee commen Geeemae meme meee sap pememmeiee eee sem smenenie on Seu tae eed
. - > t

OFFICIAL USE CNLY = APREST MATA BASED Ch . “ :
NW, 55493 Docld: BRGSPES NIPAGENTSFICATION BY SUBMITTING AGENCY GR FBI | . . PAGE. 4



WUNTTER STATPS DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEMFFAL BUREAU PF INVESTIGATION

“NATIONAL CPIME TNEORMATICN CENTER

> 2401939993 FRI MINNEAPOLTS MN Ol’. .FBI/7302580 2s.

, CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORD .
wl. THES RESPONSE BASFD_ON Nee OO Pe Ny en reenact ener eeees me neeneee senna oe alee cuneate ene ee neuen oe

DATE RECORD PRINTED, 16/17/72

i
. : , ‘ ran . Sn, ’ . . . ‘
7 COURT= AGCY/, .
mec COUNT Oe eeetese wee smenenuee cena meenetumemcmeneeennemes nnesntte Fania we tenee emene cee ciemen as wee eeecenwenne eens eepmeaunee etitee seneaet rane are |
OT OFFENSE/FRAUD “DISP/CONVICTED
7” CONFINEN/260 . : : 2 .
. ee oe 4 ~ . , on woe .
~ ore 14- . OY *
— ARREST= AGCY/US MARSHAL BILCTNGS MT 7" TW" State WZECT SSG mn mmm eae CLLeTG
~ CHARGE NO/OL ' ee eee fe nett ee eee nt -
” DFFENSE/FNPGERY<INTERSTATE
“ courT- ascys ss _ _
weet ce COUNT NO cee een ile peer eet erences ane a ne mee eeeumnnant neneneeeenne sees mt ememaeameee se nae - we cee
' ° OFFENSE/FORGERY  DISP/CCNVICTEO -
> CONFINEN/1Y6M «PROB/3Y ATHER/CONC . a Cee .
: CUSTODY— -AGCY/AL FEO PR CAMP MAXWELLTAFB tk : ‘
7 - A DATE/EG2470 STATUS /RECELVED .
+ CYCLF 15- .
- + ARREST= AGCY/ARISTML PD TN . STATE ID/FOT153¢. ||) oo DATE ARR/G52971 5 -
sO CHARGE NO/CL
ow  OPEENSESFOR GER Yo cece ee cannes ce te me tate ceeeeeee eeceemeenenennes caenemmececttensnt seem cmeueaieee em snus e meeen me ene Se ee cele enmunene ener we eee
7
7 .
5 |
~ ad
‘5 . se eee - comes ae ee =e ~- = . wae = .
.
a tee cee nee es nerne me ae ennine e meee eeeeenetae Gaeeeenane te ease seca tee ene
. r . i
: FFICTAL 41SF ONLY = ARREST DATA BASED GN ~ .
S2RAOREE rnb abe ; ;

JEICATION AY SURMITTING AGEACY OR BRT.



Boag REV. 11-27-70), : @ page! eaasea! r

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.

‘ - «pote of ronseription JUNE 19, 1973

: Mr. NORMAN LEVINE, Owner of Norm's Reliable, 211
Superior Street, Duluth, Minnesota, was exhibited photographs
of the following:

THOMAS ALLEN BLAISDELL:
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #06944

RICHARD BRIEGEL 7 7
Hennepin County Sheriff's office #A2331

EUGENE ERNEST BRISTOL

JOHN CALVIN BROOKS

DENNIS CALLAHAN

ROBERT H. CARISON, JR. EEE
St. Paul, Minnesota, Police Department #51521

JERRY CARPENTER 7
Hennepin County Sherifi’s Office #04225

MICHAEL EUGENE CARVER :
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #13584

JOHN MELVIN CHENERY
FBI #129 787 A

MELVERN LEON COBEN iaeeaa
Hennepin County Sheriff's office #14759

JAMES LEON DEAN 7
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #0101

JOHN P. EBIN i j ieresazie
Interviewed on 0/22/73 : Jeushe Minnesota rite MP 7-867 - /3SC =
7 SA PAUL J. NEUMANN\ A)
: THOMAS E. anak) sf TES/ pL Dote disoted_ 6/18/73

i
This document contoins neither reébmmendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

nw Bg2b3* eeerkarsombserds diowhages appide your aggner.



MP 7-567 : 7

IM ECKHARDT

. EARL, ENGER
RICHARD GABRIEL DE MARR
Hennepin County Sats office #05849

DONALD RICHARD gross
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department #6282

ROBERT WILLIAM HALL

PAUL V. HARRIS — a ceemaeen
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department #37353

KENNETH HAYES
: Minnesota State Prison #21846

RAYMOND PATRICK KAISER
HILLEL BARRY LIEBERMAN

RONALD J. MULLIGAN. : i :
Minnesota State Prison #23773 | eee

SHERMAN Le LARUSH
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department 445303

RICHARD J. OLSON
Minnesota State Prison #22381

JOHN PATRICK CODY
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #02349

NORMAN PETER WILLIAMS
Hennepin county Sheriff's Office #19258

JOHN PHILLIP SHINNERS | : }
Hennepin County Sheriff’ 8 Office #03242

ee
NW 55193 DoclId:32989775 Page 78 a : =2-



| MP 7-567

WILLIAM MARCUS RAY
‘ «GERALD GEORGE SWART

ROBERT ALLEN THOMPSON
FBI #891 925 C

SIDNEY BURTON THOMPSON

#

RAYMOND D. TRACZYK
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department ‘#47283

MANUEL JOSEPH VALENZUELA
Anoka County Sheriff's Office #5626

GOTTFRIED RODERICK VONKRONENBERGER

GORDON EARL WATTS es
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department 451224

FBI Artist's Conception of Money Passer

FBI Artist's Conception : maar
Sketch I - Netieer
Unknown Subject #2 ;

. Mr. LEVINE, upon viewing the above photographs, stated
che did not rectgnize any of them as being patrons of his store
or purchasers of handcuffs.

ak

! NW 55193 Docld:32989775 Page 79 ° i “3



= FD. 393 (REV. 14-27-70) : t . e

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

-

: - Dote of transcription TUNE 19, 1973

SYLVIA LEVINE, Bookkeeper, Norm's Reliabie, 211
Superior Street, Duluth, Minnesota, was exhibited the following
photographs:

: THOMAS ALLEN BLAISDELL
oe Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #06944

RICHARD BRIEGEL PEs
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #A2331

- EUGENE ERNEST BRISTOL
JOHN CALVIN BROOKS
DENNIS CALLAHAN

ROBERT H. CARLSON, TRe
St. Paul, Minnesota, Police Department #51522

JERRY CARPENTER
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #04225

. ; MICHAEL EUGENE CARVER: _ =
Hennepin County Sheriff'a Office #13584

”

JOHN MELVIN CHENERY
FBI #129 787 A

MELVERN LEON COBEN
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office 414759

JAMES LEON DEAN
Hennepin County Sheriff's office #01019

JOBN P. EBIN

7 my I ~/ 2 ae
a 6/12/73 g Ruluth, Minnesota : rite # MP 77567 Sot
PAUL J. NEU! ff :
A THOMAS E. SAUNDERS/TES/pi Dole dictoted____ 6/18/73

This Hocument contains neither re¢ommendations nor Conclusions of the FBI, Wis the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

it ond is contents ore nol to be distributed oulside “Your agency.
NW 55193. DocId:32989775 Page 80



“MP 7-567-

JIM ECKHARDT

EARL ENGER

RICHARD GABRIEL DE MARR
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #05849

DONALD RICHARD GROSS
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department 46282

ROBERT WILLIAM HALL

PAUL V. HARRIS HES
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department 437353

KENNETH HAYES ©
Minnesota State Prison #21846

RAYMOND PATRICK KAISER
: . “HILLEL BARRY LIEBERMAN

RONALD J. MULLIGAN

Minnesotd State Prison 423773 |

SHERMAN 1. LARUSH Soeeenetieeeee
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department #45303

RICHARD J. OLSON
Minnesota State Prison #22381

JOHN PATRICK copy»
Hennepin County Sheriff's office #02349

NORMAN PETER WILLIAMS is
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #19258 7

JOHN PHILEIP SHINNERS
Hennepin County Sheriff's office #03241 .

de te a raaae ann .
NW 55193 DoclId:32989775 Page’s81. ° i a2



MP 7=567

WILLIAM MARCUS RAY
GERALD GEORGE SWART :

ROBERT ALLEN THOMPSON : aa
FBI #891 925 Cc

‘ es BURTON THOMPSOM

a RAYMOND D. TRACZYK -
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department #47253

MANUEL JOSEPH VALENZUELA
Anoka County Sheriff's office #5626

GOTTFRIED RODERICK VONKRONENBERGER

GORDON EARL WATTS
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department #51224

A FBI Artist's Conception of Money Passer

‘a , FBI Artist's Conception : :
Sketch I at .
Unknown Subject #2 : 7
SYLVIA LEVINE, upon viewing the above sean aeeeenn
stated she did not recognize any of them as being patrons of
Norm's Reliable or purchasers of handcuffs.

be ie

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 82 ° . 7 oo
a



>-o:d02REV. 11-27-70) ‘@ @

| ; a FEDERAL BUREAU ‘OF INVESTIGATION

: pote of wonseription TUNE 19, 1973.

JULIUS HOLT, Sales Clerk, Norm's Reliabie, 211 Superior
Street, Duluth, Minnesota, working in the department handling
: the sale of handcuffs, was exhibited the following photographs:

THOMAS ALLEN BLAISDELL
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #06944

RICHARD BRIEGEL
Hennepin County Sherifs’ s Office #A2331

7 EUGENE ERNEST BRISTOL
a JOHN CALVIN BROOKS
DENNIS CALLAHAN

ROBERT H. CARLSOM, JR.- : 7 : 7
: Auer St. Paul, Minnesota, Police Department #51521

JERRY CARPENTER -
Hennepin County Sheriff's office #04225 ;

MICHAEL EUGENE CARVER a
att Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #13584

+ SOHN MELVIN CHENERY
FBI #129 787 A

MELVERN LEON COBEN i:
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #14759

JAMES LEON DEAN
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #01019

JOHN P. EBIN

Interviowed on. 6/12/73 _pbuintny Minnesota Fite #_ MP 7-567 ~/ 2555
SA PAUL J. NEUMANNA\I/ :
be SA THOMAS E, SAUNDERS /TES/p1. Dote dictoted 6/18/73

i

+ This document contoins neithar “ecommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. it is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency;
i ond its contents are not to béMisiributed oulside your ogency. .

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 83



“ MP 7-567

JIM ECKHARDT
EARL, ENGER

| i : RICHARD GABRIEL DE MARR
| i Hennepin County Sheriff's 's office 405849

DONALD RICHARD GROSS
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department 46262

: ROBERT WILLIAM HALL

PAUL V. HARRIS.
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department 437353

KENNETH HAYES i
Minnesota State Prison #21846

RAYMOND PATRICK KAISER
7 fee HILLEL BARRY LIEBERMAN

. RONALD J. MULLIGAN °
. Minnesota State Prison #23773

SHERMAN L. TARUSH 7S
Minneapolis, Minnesota, - Police Department #45303

RICHARD J. OLSON 7
Minnesota State Prison #22381

JOHN PATRICK CODY
Hennepin county Sheriff's office #02349

NORMAN PETER WILLIAMS 7 suseeer
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #19258 A

JOHN PHILLIP SHINNERS
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #03241
ae see iveEeCzaee . a
NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 84-  —~ : =2-



MP 7~567

" Sketch I

WILLIAM MARCUS RAY : sane
GERALD GEORGE SWART

ROBERT ALLEN THOMPSON : +
FBI #891 925 ¢c

SIDNEY BURTOS THOMPSON

RAYMOND D. TRACZYK
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department #47253

MANUEL JOSEPH VALENZUELA
Anoka County Sheriff's Office #5626

GOTTFRIED RODERICK VONKRONENBERGER

GORDON EARL WATTS
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police ‘Department #51224

FBI artist's Conception of Money Passer
FBI Artist's Conception : iu
Unknown ‘Subject 42

Mr. HOLT advised that he recalls having sold one set

of cuffs to a person who bears some resemblance to MELVERN

- LEON COBEN but it was not identical with COBEN.

oh. sarees =3>

—NW-55193—Docld:32989775 Page 85 a:



Re i ees : se Be me

4 FO-DOR (REV. 11-27-70), @ bos e

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION: -

5 ‘ June 19, 1973

7 Date of transcription,

- 'RINY THOMPSON, Sales Clerk, Norm's Reliable, 211
Superior Street, Duluth, Minnesota, was exhibited photographs
of the following:

THOMAS ALLEN BLAISDELL
Hennepin County Sheriff's office #06944

RICHARD BRIEGEL
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #A2331

EUGENE ERNEST BRISTOL
JOHN CALVIN BROOKS
“DENNIS CALLAHAN

ROBERT H. CARLSON, JR. Hee 7
St. Paul, Minnesota, Police Department #51521

JERRY CARPENTER .
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #04225 .
, MICHAEL EUGENE CARVER .
: Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #13584

JOHN MELVIN CHENERY FEEEEEEEea
FBI #129 787 A 7

MELVERN LEON COBEN
Hennepin County Sheriff's office #14759

JAMES LEON DEAN 7
Hennepin County Sheriff's office #01019

a JOHN P. EBIN

n

Interviewed on, 6/12/73 cg Minnesota fig ¢_ MP 7-567 - / 3 Soe

SA PAUL J. NEUMANN \// :
ohe SA THOMAS FE. SAUNDERS/TES/p1 petal 6/18/73
i °

This document contoins neither retbmmendations nor conclusions of the FBI, Il is the property of the FBI und is loaned to your agency;

nw Bse$s" paentrsoodds Ps dplkyet gyrise vou egencr. .



“ MP 7-567

JIM ECKHARDT

EARL ENGER

‘RICHARD GABRIEL DE MARR r
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office 405849

DONALD RICHARD ekoss™ aie
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department #6282

ROBERT WILLIAM HALL

PAUL V. HARRIS aa : be
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department #37353

KENNETH HAYES ~
Minnesota State Prison #21846

RAYMOND PATRICK KAISER
“RILLEL BARRY LIEBERMAN

RONALD Je MULLIGAN
Minnesota State Prison 423773 |

SHERMAN L. LARUSH eet
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department #45303

RICHARD J. OLSON i
Minnesota State Prison #22381

JOHN PATRICK CODY
Hennepin County Sheriff's office #02349

NORMAN PETER WILLIAMS 7
aaa Hennepin county Sheriff's office 419258 .

JOHN PHILLIP SHINNERS 7
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #03241 .

oa
NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 87 7 sane



“MP 7-567 - -

WILLIAM MARCUS RAY | ”
GERALD GEORGE SWART

‘ ROBERT ALLEN THOMPSON :
* FBI #891 925 c

SIDNEY BURTON THOMPSON

RAYMOND D. TRACZYK
a Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department #47253

MANUEL JOSEPH VALENZUELA
Anoka County Sheriff's Office #5626

a nae! GOTTFRIED RODERICK VONKRONENBERGER

GORDON EARL WATTS : 7
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department #51224

FBI Artist's Conception of Money Passer

FBI Artist's Conception ui
a & Sketch I : :

Unknown Subject #2

THOMPSON stated that during the period of time from
March, 1971, to July, 1972, he had worked almost exclusively
in that area of the store selling handcuffs. He stated that
the photograph of ROBERT ALLEN THOMPSON bears some resenblance
to an individual who used to patronize the store. ‘He could
not recall any specific handcuff sales. He thought, however,
that it is possible that a BRUCE LONDON, 12 Howard Gnesen,
Duluth, Minnesota, a customer of the store who has purchased
firearms, may have purchased a set of handcuffs.

he :
NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 88 ooeC een! | we



OPTIONAL FORM No. ta
a MAY 1982 EDITION )

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6 N 7 we
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT + :
Memorandum
TO} SAC 7-567) ; ; ; PATE: 417-73
FROM = M.0.EID /

SUBJECT: — PINAP

RE: betpeeerett MARCUS RAY

~ On 4-17-' “93 ELI MILITICH, Narcotic Squad, Duluth,Minn. P.D,
advised that on 4-16-73 G& fa RACHUY of 519 No.22nd Avenue West had
contacted him and requested that he contact the FBI as he had some
information relative to the Piper case. Attached is FD 3C2 showing
interview with RACHUY. It will be noted that none of the information
furnished by RACHUY correlates with the actual facts in the Piper
case. It will also be noted that he did not recognize any of the
Artist's photographs nor did he recognize William Marcus Ray.

7-56 7-1 306.3

SEARCHED ag eINDEXED — pn

i ; SERIALIZED 2 FILED.
: APR 18 1973
FBI — MINNEAPOLIS

a
3 DocId:32989775 Page 89



302 :

GALE madly, 519 No.22nd Avenue West, Duluth,Minnesota advised
Y was in this institution. He stated he talked to RAY several times

nd RAY furnished him information that lead him to believe he may be
involved in the Piper kidnapping. RACHUY stated he cannot recall in
detsil everything that Ray told him put did recall that Ray remarked thst
three men were in on the iidnabping. The three were BE ERUD, whom Ray
was subsequently charged and sentenced, and a another man who tad been
in St.Coud reformatory or in Stillwater Strte Penitentiary. BERGERUD
was not going to be cut ‘in on the ramsom and he told RAY that he was goic}
tq go.to thePolice and that is the reason Ray killed him. Rachuy stated
when Ray heard that Bergerud was going to the Police, he grabbed him by
the tie and hurled him against the wall and left. Bergerud apparently was
knocked unconscious and died when he vas unable to catch his breath.
RACHUY also stated that Ray had told him that all three of the men in-
volved had taken turns. staying in the woods with Mrs. Piper. Also thet
while Mrs. Piper was in the woods bhe cried a lot and requested to be
allowed to return home to her husband. The money from the kidnapping
or at least Ray's share was put in a foreign bank. The actual kidnapping
asRachuy recalled was that the kidnappers called telephonically to Mhe
PIPER residence and requested her to come outside. When she came outside
they kidnapped her. Yuring the time Mrs. PIPER was held in the woods in
Fond du lac the two men who were not with her had stayed in a house
nearby and had observed the area for security.

i RHUCHUY was showm amxmxmx the artist's conception photographs of

the Unknow Subjects in the Piper case and he could not identify any as
anyone he knew. “In this connection he was also shown a photograph of

NW 55W93.1 Deaidiazesay 7Rayrayadshhe also did not recognize him.

=a meMeee yy a -d4el [SSSSSReREE88



«97-302 (REV.,11-27-70)

er anaes

when

June 19, 1973

A Date of transcription,

currently employed as q peputy Sheriff,
St. Louis County ‘Daath, Hinnesota, advised ag followss

SIMNING had previously warked as a retail sales
clerk for Norm's Reliable for a pericd of wine months, termin~
ating April, 1972. His particular station was in the area of
weapons, cameras, and so forth, and in this particulaz area,
handcuffs were displayed and sold. then handeuffs vere.
received from the supplier, they would be “dumpead" in a
dyaver under the display counter; and if the offs were Sord
in nunbered sequence, it would be an accident, as they were
all “jumbled up” in the supply drawer. ‘The petective Roms

- brand handeuffs were retailed for $9.95. SIMNING could not

xecall any specific sale of hendartfs; however, he recalls

that he believes it was sometime in January, 1972, that an
individual entered the store and talked to him about purchasing
handcufis but had not ever actually made a purchasé.' fie
recalls this person to be in his mid-40's, 5° 8", 180 pounds,
xoung face, thinning hair, and had a “tairly heavy bulid.

the following photographs were exhibited to STUNING s

THOMAS ALLEN ararspern.
Hennepin County’Sherif£'s Offices #06944
ea
. JRECHARD PRIEGER
Hennepin County sherifits office FA233L

__BUGENE ERNEST BRASTOX

JOHN Sern sR00KS_

—

DENNIS. -exstaras_

_popery a.canisou, oR. *
St. Pall, Minnesota, Folica pairs 51522

Interviewed on__G/ 4.2473. «Duluth, Minnesota rie # MB 7-567 — 7 258

AHOEXED ee
FILED 3

SA PAUL J. NEUMANN 7
Lu w,_ SAIN a Date dictated,

FBI— MINNEAPOLIS”?

This document centoins neither recommendations nor gonclusions of the FSI, It is the property of the FBand is Tooned io your ogencyr

it and ils contents are nol to béidisiributed outside your ogency.
NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 31



NW 55193

MP 7-567

“Qe

ROBERT WILLIAM WALL

RAYMOND PATRICK soisee

JERRY CAR: 7
Hennepin/ ae Sheriff's Offica 404225

MICHAEL EUGENE CARVER
Hennepin County Sheriffs office #13584

JOHN MELVIN CHENERY
FRI #129 787 X >

MELVERN. TEAN_Cp! BOs

Hennepin ane aaa Office #14759

SAMES LEON _D!

Hennepin’ Cou ty Sheriff‘s Offica #01019

JOHN P. EBIN
———— 7

JIM ECKHARD'
JIM Et

FARL ENGER é

’

RICHARD GABRIEL | a
Hennepin County “Sheriff's office #05849

4
DONALD RICHARD GROSS
‘Minneapolis, Minhesota, Police Department 46282

é

PAUL V. HARRIS

Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department #37353

KENNETH BAYES

Minnesota“State Prison #21846 7
f

may

HILLEL BARRY LIEBERMAN

io

DocId:32989775 Page 92 7 i ia



-RONAID J, MULIAGAN
Minnesota State Prison #23773

SHERMAN Lee EL RY SH EH
_Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department #45303

RICHARD J, onset Bile
Minnesota State Prison #22381

: JOHN PATRICK copy
ea Hennepin county Sheriff's Office #02349

NORMAN PETER WI’
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #19258

7 gon PHILP supers
Hennepin County/ Sheriff's office 403241

; WILLIAM MARCUS Ray
fy

a GERALD GEORGE » T
oS ; 7 fs 7 7

ROBERT ALLEN. THOMPSON : 7 “

FBI #891 925 c / ; ere |

va
SIDNEY BURTON THOMPSON
| RAYMOND De TRACZYK , :
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department. #47253

i ~MANUEL JOSEPH VALENZUEIA _,
| Anoka County Shefiff's Office #5626

GOTTFRIED RODERICK V ee

GORDON EARL, wRoTS
Minneapolis, /Minnesotas Folice Department #51224

| N

} 7

sh son DocId:32989775 Page 93_



MP 7-567
“A>

FBI Artist's Conception ef Mceney Passer

5 FBI ist’s Conception
Sket z . i
Unknown Subject #2

SEMNING stated that RAYMOND PATRICK XSER appeared
pre te him as an individual he had seen in fhe store before,
a It is his recollection that the individual bearing resemblance
to KAISER was some sort of a salesman, SIMNING stated that if
he should develop any information as to anyone in possession
of Detective Romo handcuffs with Serial Numbez 34201 through
4440, he would immediately advise. :

ae
| NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 94



| FO 302 (REV. 11-27-70) {xy Saw

| .. . oe a : wv
"+ FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 7
‘SO - Date of tronscription SUES LO p is73

SHERMAN RS i, Sales Clark, Norms Reliable, 211 Superior
Street, Dvluth, Mindessta, was exhibited photographs of the
foliowing and stated that he did not recognize any of them as
customers of the store nox could he suggest anyme ag haying
Purchased hetective Rome handcuffs:

. THOMAS ALLEN SDELL
; - Hennepin county Sherift's office wosoaa

: RICHARD URI 7
7 Hennepin pacer sierite’s Office $A2332

ROBERT H. CARTAON, TR.
St. Baul, Minhesota, Police Department £51521

ZERRY CARPE!
Hennepia County Sheriff*s offices 404225

MECHAEL EUGENE xi t
Hennepin County Sheriff's Office #13584 : i

YORN MELVIN CHE!
FBI $129 787 ioe
MELVERN LEON cose ;
Hennepin Count?,sheriff's office #24759

SAMES LEON ¥)
Hennepin CoGnty Sheriff's office 401019
TORN PS :
Interviewed on 6/12/73 _”ot_Dutnth, Minnesota Filet wp peso - / 356

S4 PAUL J. NEUMANN -
2 : : SEARCHED. soy eee
7 % i SERIALIZEDZ AL i373...
ney:

Fe tour a

This document’ contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI, It is the properif of the ebbNa 21873
Mond its contents ore not to be distributed outside your agency. FBI— MINNEAPOL'
vue. oe .

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 95 °* . yO - .



NW 55193

JOHN PATRICK Copy 7 aa

DocId:32989775 Page 36 * 7

JIM FE DT

EARL ENG}

RICHARD GABRIEL Di/MARR :
Hennepin County Sheriff's office #05849
DONALD RICEARD GRogs : ceetoee
Minneapolis, Minne’ Sota, Police Department #6282

_ROBERT WILLIAM i, : : ae

paun v. ears Preseeieitette tees a
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Police Department #37353
KENNETH :

Minnesota’ eee Priso) "#21846

RAYMOND PATRICK warseR = .

HILLEL BARRY ae ice

RONALD J, MULLIGAN

" Minnesota State Prison 423773

: lA
SHERMAN L. LARUSH

- Minneapolis, -Minnesota, Police Department #45303

RICHARD J. OLSON
Minnesota State Prison #22381

Hennepin County Sheriff's Office 402349

NORMAN PETER wir, TAMs a
Hennepin county’ Sheriff's Office #19258

JOHN PHILLIP SHINWERS
Hennepin County/Sheriff's Office #03241

vie ss .



MP 7=567
Qa

RAYMOND D. moa
- Minneapolis,

WILLIAM MARCUS

GERALD GEORGE wae 7
ROBERT ALLEN T cople
FBI #891 925 cc 4 :

SIDNEY BURTON THOMPSON

Minnesota, Police Department #47253

MANUEL JOSEPH VALENZUELA
Anoka County Sheriff's office $5626

GOTTFRIED RODERICK VONKRONENBERGER

GORDON EARI WAS TS
Minneapolis; Minnesota, Police Department #51224

FBI agtist's Conception of Money Passer
FBI Artist's conception

Sketch I
Unknown Subject #2

we.

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 97 ' 7 ”



FROM

SUBJECT:

+ GSAFeMR (41 CFR) Irt-1.8

4 ISSSEAPRENSNNGeNEGRED TSn7naEyUUnAQueeeeARSAEEPAOSUEEBEE! ™I

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT "

Memorandum

OPTIONAL FORM NO."10
MAY te#2 EDITION

:SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567) (P) : DATE: 9/21/72

:SA DAVID W, WADE

PINAP

On instant date Detective Lieutenant BARBER,
Duluth, Minnesota, Police Department, telephonically contacted

_ the writer and advised as follows:

JoHNSoN's £0 OL

BARBER stated that he was currently conducting an
investigation regarding an individual identified by him as
WILLIAM MARKUS RAY, ake Markus Savage and Merk Eric Savage,
DOB 7/15/39, FBI #730 258 C, white male, 5'10", 150-180 lbs.,
blue eyes, Sandy heir, tattoo of Jesus on his back, tattoo
of the flag of Alabama on his right arm, tattoo of a heart
and "MARGIE and MARKUS" on his left arm,

BARBER stated that he was investigating the desth
of one VERNON BERGERUD of Duluth which cecurred on 9/12/72.
He stated that from his investigation he was able to deter-
mine that both RAY and BERGERUD were in BERGERUD’s 1969
Cadillac, four-door DeVille, Minnesota license MCL 857,
(black vinyl over royal blue), SN B9236886, (On 9/12/72 they aan
were both seen by an individual named BONNIE “OLSON, Duluth, Vann sé“
who was allegedly RAY’s girlfriend, On 9/13/72 RAY Feturne
to OLSON's alone in the 1969 Cadillac and allegedly told eLSON” “
‘bhat he had Puveneres same from BERGERUD for $2,000.

According to BARBER, on the night of 9/12/72
BERGERUD's residence was burned down and his body was found
inside. He stated that investigation to date indicates that
BERGERUD was dead prior to the fire, BARBER is now searching
for RAY as a suspect regarding the death of BERGERUD,

According to BARBER, his investigation thus far has
‘revealed that RAY is from Montgomery, Alabama, and is peta eet
the subject of a UFAP warzant, specific violation unknown,

- Hinneapolis

eo

hy



MP 7-567

He’ stated that from talking toa Set. ARETTCof the Montgomery,
Alabama, Police Department, he was able to identify RAY es
being identical to MARCUS SAVAGE, the alias used by RAY in

the Duluth area, He added that from his questioning of BONNIE
COLSON, he found that RAY originally came to Duluth on or

about 7/5/72 and has been in that area ever since. He stated
that RAY developed a relationship with OLSON and that from
this veletionship OLSON had obtained the following information
regarding RAY:

a

During the period that she knew him, she saw in his
possession $1,700 in $20 bills, She added that RAY would not

+» @llow anyone to touch his legas and often rubbed them, RAY
allegedly attributed his injury to his having been shot,
OLSON told BARBER that RAY was crazy and that he had made
several allegations and claims involving himself in the murder
of Dr, MARTIN LUTHER KING, Jr, and various other well known
crimes, He told OLSON that at one time he was on death row
(prison unknown) and that somebody is after him, She stated
that RAY drinks: quite a bit and that he likes Jack Daniels,
Hie smokes Camel filter cigarettes exclusively,

BARBER stated that he had determined from the
Montgomery police that RAY has relatives in Montgomery,
Alabama, but was unable at the time to identify them. He
stated that during the pericd 8/24-27/72 RAY made five tele-~
phone calls to the Montgomery area from OLSON's phone. He
had not to date identified who was called,

: BARBER stated thet he was furnishing this information
to the FBY in view of the fact that from photographs of RAY
furnished to him by OLSON and the Montgomery, Alabama, Police
Department, he considered RAY extremely similar to the artist's —
conception of Unsub #2 in captioned matter, which artist's
conception appeared in the Hinnetpolis and Duluth area news
papers subsequent to the PIPER kidnaping,

a

A check regarding RAY in NCIC revealed that WILLIAM
MARCUS RAY, white male, 7/15/39, FBI #730 258 C, is wanted by
the Charlotte, North Carolina, FBI, their file 3646387, date
of warrant. 7/18/72, NcICc check regarding the 19659 Cadillac
reveals that it has been entered by the St, Paul PD on 9/12/72
and includes the annotation that it may have been involved in
a possible homocide. |

Pei
si tee aT Ee

NW 55193 DocId:32989775_ Page 99



MP 7-567

Minneapolis indices refiect numerous references
to WILLIAM RAY; however, none were readily identifiable with
above~described individuel,

LEAD “Armed and Dangerous i

MINNEAPOLIS

a AT DULUTH, MINNESOTA. 7 pins Sor |
Will aay Lt, BARBER, Duluth PD, obtain where~
abouts of BONNIE OLSON and interview her re her knowledge of
RAY, Thereafter, conduct appropriate investigation to deter~
mine RAY’s 7 involvement in PIPER kidnaping,

S 26fre—

ae byw ter
Mae -

whe a cat 4

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 100 ° i" ae



.” “Tragoimit eitached by Pacstoile ~ PLAKITEXT

yy  HIMMEAPOLIS

PR ae taaeRES UTP TR!

Fra GEAREONTE

‘WELLIAN #

Sbiects

spacer efiopieg
amet 723 ~ reais

"Dy nists Cencestien
Cieciy Figo

agiat Radtiog igstmedions:

——Ssenlet
- Reference in mads

who stivised subject.
or) suspect 2

FAP. As requested, tyo
pastoegraphs of suseect mailed

gab pont

: We ote
_NW 55193 Docld: 32989 F15: age 101 °



‘~

po

SEPAS Row. SRTD

px 7a

gyi lbiielisbeleaticn
£5 Bupsieannta BTMAS dated
[3 Piningeph not needed

“Yndieate following:
Desens lech
fly eetesist (ate: -
(iter batt 0: ¢

sherkgund ©

Kasten
i =.
i =

‘Birth Bete

las 5

A
FIR Re. +

2] Fingepriat Glewsi

i

eth

ag heat

! : 1
c ad, @

ftw 55193 DocIa:32989775 Page 102 °

ett
mt



i record, MUA

s
pa

gwinn F

4

MYUMIGATS WITH

| Crestview FLB

TO,

San -Die



“BE. 4 os Cer:

t BE, rf a is i ef
Butte Mont ; "Willian Barcus [1-16-78 [uterstate trans ; 18 mos
i | | fay #02287 bf falseiy made | Gi
: f de : : Pectrity i

NW 55193-.Docld:32989775 Page 104"

ATES GEPARTA

be. aa’ : Peet
wee FEDERAL BUREAU OF Siar fre
ASAE SOEN kon : IDENTIFICATION DIVE BATT, :
Re ite -, | WASHINGTON, 0.0. 205.

aur anteae ey J Tee

ten iptewing Fel ceserd, MUABER _
pienagrion shown an this Identification Racord raarenal
SS DSITION (S$ ROT SHOWN GH FURTHER EXPLAR
COMMUHIGATES WITH AGERGY CONTRIBUTING THE

Si, 33 o£ Ce

montgomery a:

SO Monigomery
ALA

MOnLyonecy A.

a

cATE (ont gomary ‘SOP ents:
sla} ~ ‘ALS

Grn

lone | plc

Rev #0132 a

cores as an sedis Santtdnpnienianns neta peatin neonate rtsianttinnaeuaantetigeiaieentni
u 4
i tbe
it
+

3

coe



“the following €St reeard,
Information shown on |
pisPOSITION 18 WoT §

2 Beison Camp
Well APB Ala if mes 3
prob

7 i
| : tes sport
, | interstake gets
| I ecurities :
Hl

“beieta: 32989775 “page 1



-
|

ee a - fegeeecesseet
—NW-55193—Docld: 32989775 Page ‘i



sat_ CA 20) — o

INQUIRY

hee Ly

MUST FURNISH AT LEAST ONE OF THE FOLLOWING:

DOB :
FBI RON
SOCIAL’ SECURTIV HOD
MISCELLANEOUS NO. |
OPERATOR'S ‘LICENSE NOT

| NCIC REPLY: [77] KO RECORD [C7] REcorp "LocATED"

| RIT (See pam CTI RECORD CLEARED" :

GPERATOR'S INITIALS An
NW55183  DocId:32989775 Pas ae ema : “a


NROSS MO PLAIN ‘ ct i
12-55 PM NITEL -9/21/72 wOL. :
TO ACTING DIRECTOR |
CHARLOTTE (26-46387) 7 —a :
MIWNEAPOLIS aeienee : :

FROM: MOBILE (26-26791) (P) 3 PAGES

CHANGED : WILLIAM MARCUS RAY, AKA WILLIat GORDON THAMES,
MARCUS SAVAGE ~ FUGITIVE, ITSNV.,00 #CE.

1 et

: TITLE MARKED CHANGED TO ADD ALTAS OF MARCUS Fl ,
* SAVAGE. TITLE PREVIQUSLY CARRIED AS WILLI

eee GORDON TH MES - FUGITIVE, ITSHV. 00: CE.

ARGUS DAY, AKA

: “FOR INFORMATION OF MINNEAPOLIS, WILLIAM MARCUS
“RAY, IS A WHITE MALE s DOB, JULY FIFTEEN THIRTYNINE, FIVE.
FEET NINE AND ONE “HALF INCHES, ONE SEVEN ZERO POUNDS,
“BROWN HAIR, FBI NO, SEVEN THREE ZERO TtO0 FIVE EIGHT c,
LARGE, T TaTTOO ON BACK DEPIUTING HEAD OF “JESUS- CHRIST",
_IS.FUCITIVE FROM ITSMV WARRANT ISSUED ASHVILLE, %. C.

EMD PAGE.ONE

ye
QD.
So

Au

vk
NW 55193 -DoclTd:32989775 Page 108



BAGE THO. nd .
NO “26-26 761 : — _ - ‘
MONTGOMERY PD Has RECEIVED TNFORWATIOH FROM CAPT.
BARBER, DULUTH, MINNESOTA PD THAT A MARCUS SAVAGE HAS BEER
IN THE DULUTH AREA IN RECENT WEEKS aND IS THE SUBJECT IN -
A MURDER OF SEPTEMBER TWELVE SEVENTYTYO.
SAVAGE 'S DESCRIPTION IS IDENTICAL TO RAY'S
INCLUDING TATTOO OF CHRIST. SAVAGE HAD MADE TELEPHONE CALLS
TO MONTGOMERY WHICH HAVE BEEN FOUND TO BE NUMBERS OF RAY*S
MOTHER AND SISTER. WARRANT FOR #URDER IS BEING ISSUED AT

DULUTH PD FOR SAVAGE; peeear =

CAPT. BAREER ADVISED THE SUB JECT MAY BE EN ROUTE

TO “HONTGOMERY IN NIRETEER SIXTYNINE CADILL ACs FOUR. DOOR,

“DE VILLE, BLACK VINYL OVER DARK BLUE, VIN.B NINE TWO THREE

NW 55133) DocId:32989775 Page 109 °

TAKEN ALIVE.

SIX EIGHT EIGHT SIX, MINNESOTA LICENSE MC L cai FIVE SEVEN.
“ DETECTIVE WALT CRAFT » MONTGOMERY PD ‘ADVISED
RAY Has STATED HE WOULD HOT RETURN TO PRISON AND WOULD NOT BE

END PAGE Tyo

sis . Aiteeee meee eeetias



PAGE TyO SS
MO-26-26791
., CHARLOTTE ADVISE ecTO AND AUXILIARY OFFICES OF 7
‘caUT ION STATHENT , PROVIDE MINNEAPOLIS WITH FURTHER INFORMATION
IF DEEMED NECESSARY.

MINNEAPOLIS AT DULUTH SITWNESOTA CONTACT i
CAPT « BARBER ; DULUTH PD AND OBTAIN FULL DETAILS OF MURDER
AND INFORMATION OF SUBJECT WHILE IN THAT AREA. ADVISE
BARBER: OF SUBJECT 'S TRUE NAME AUD BACKGROUND « :
~ +) MOBILE AT MONTGOMERY, ALABAMA: ATTEMPT TO LOCATE SUBJECT :
THROUGH CONTACT WITH SUBJECT."S MOTHER AND SISTER. ul

SUBJECT HAS STATED THAT HE YOULD NOT BE TAKEN ALIVE.

END . i
FBI MP * CMH ‘ 7
CLR : ‘
- - Ee
: : ,
:
. : i
Be a aN ~

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 110



MP 7-567

MUM: sks

25)

: WILLIAM MARCUS RAY

= WILLIAM GORDON THAMES ES
MARCUS ERICK SAVAGE
MARCK SAVAGE

a On September 22, 1972, Inspector of Detectives RUSSELL

BARBER, Duluth, Minnesota, Police Department, furnished informatinn
concerning WILLIAM MARCUS RAY, who is under investigation by his
department for a homicide, involving the ‘a o£ VERNON BERGERUD
of Duluth, Minnesota.

ee

NW 55193 Docld:32989775 Page 111



FD-36 (Rex. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

FBI

Date: 9/22/72

PLAINTEXT

J Re. fe

nw Apprgyedy ‘Dootdys29se775—Pagett9— - Sent

(Type in plaintext or code)
TELETYPE URGENT
Via —
(Priority)
Spans Sn SaPSpaisaiga sean ses esmbnbspSGREnyAyasanss0npa-Aah=ns5senss050sn Nee sn sess seeecesaRenanseSaeee {i SEReSeSeSe Eee
TOs ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (7-14266)
ATTENTION: IDENTIFICATION DIVISION
FROM: SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567)
ah
PINAP, 00: MINNEAPOLIS.
, +.RB MINNEAPOLIS SUMMARY TELETYPE TO BUREAU, SEPTEMBER

TWENTYONE LAST.

BUREAU REQUESTED TO IMMEDIATELY: CHECK FINGERPRINTS OF

7

WILLIAM MARKUS R9¥, FBI NUMBER SEVEN THREE ZERO TWO FIVE
EIGHT C, AGAINST LATENT PRINTS DEVELOPED IN INSTANT CASE.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

PENDING.

END.

- Minneapolis .
(Le See SEP22 1972
Poi — iiiSAPULI:
be.
[Ly ;

M Per



NR @G4 MO PLAIN
2A4SPM URGENT 9-22-72 LDM

TO: | ATLANTA HOUSTON
BIRMINGHAM KNOXVILLE 7
BUTTE © “MINNEAPOLIS an
‘CHARLOTTE. = SAN DIEGO,
COLUMBIA a

FROM: MOBILE (7-596) (P) FOUR PAGES : . seers

PINAP. 003 UP. ;
“WILLIAM MSRCUS RAY, AKA WILLIAM GORDON THAMES, MARCUS SAVAGE-
FUGITIVE, ITSNV. 00: CE. ,
RAY IS SUSPECT IN PINAP.
RE MP TELCAL SEPTEMBER TWENTYONE LAST AND M0 NITEL
SEPTEMBER TVENTYONE LAST, ENTITLED YILLIAM MARCUS ae ETC.

RaY DESCRIBED AS WHITE MALE, DOB JULY FIFTEEN THIRTYNINE,

FIVE FEET EIGHT AND ONE HALF INCHES,.ONE SEVEN TWO TO ONE NINE

‘FIVEL LBS., BROWN HAIR, BLUE EYES, TATOO FACE OF “JESUS CHRIST"

- ;

OW HIS BACK, WORD “ALABAMA” ON RIGHT LOWER ARM, FBI NO. SEVEN
THREE ZERO TyO FIVE EIGHT c.
END PAGE ONE - Ai

2 oo :

- S61 YES

§~
ae ye
de

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 113 *



PAGE TyO
ON JULY EIGHTEEN SEVENTY TWO 5 AUSA MICHAEL S. SCOFIELD,

—_~

VIOLATION OF

ASHEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA, AUTHORIZED COMPLAINT FO
TIFLE EIGHTEEN, SECTION TwO THREE ONE TwO, USC. COMPLAINT FILED BY
SA STANLEY C. SETTLE BEFORE U. S. MAGISTRATE J. PAUL TEAL,
ASHEVILLE, N.C. CHARGING SUB JECT TRANSPORTED SEVENTYTWO.
-OUBAR y VIN TWO F NINE FOUR H FIVE ZERO ONE FIVE EIGHT EIGHT, —
ON OR ABOUT MAY TWENTYEIGHT, SEVENTYTWO , FROM NONTGOMERY ,
ALAs, TO ASHEVILLE, N.C. WARRANT ISSUED SANE DATE AND om
HANDS OF Y. S. MARSHAL, ASHEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA.
REVIEW OF MOBILE FILE RE SUBJECT REVEALS FOLLOWING

RELATIVES. FORMER WIFE, eget ELEVEN, EASTWOOD
MOBILE HOME VILLAGE, BIRMINGHAM, ALA. FORMER WIFE, WILMA
" SHERFEY RAY a TENN. FORMER
PARENTS-IN-LAW, THRs AND MRS. HENRY. SHERFEY , ONE SEVEN ZERO
fet estat iam At

SEVEN FLORIDA, BRISTOL, TENN. MOTHER,’ LULA'MAE, (HRS. JOSEPH)
. VAR ae SIX TO NINE LONGVIEW, MONTGOMERY, ALA. FORNER

R, ROUTE THREE, BRISTOL,

BROTHER - W-LAV, JOSE ied ere etree) ate BOX FOUR NINE THREE,

ANAHUAC, TEXAS. SISTER, MARY SHEPARD, POOLE STREET EXTENSION,
| END PAGE Tyo

ake
NW 55193 Doold:32989775 Page 114 * oa ‘



PAGE THREE :
WOODRUFF, S. C. SISTER, MRS. JOSEPH RUPERT, ONE ZERO OWE FOUR
FIRST AVE cs WARNER ROBINS, GA. SISTER, DOT BIRCH, ONE SIX
SEVEN THREE CROUSON » MONTGOMERY, ALA.

RAYS IDENTIFICATION RECORD INDICATES FINGERPRINTED -
OCTOBER TWENTYTHREE , FIFTYSIX, Us. Ss NAVY, NO. FOUR WINE ZERO
‘THREE FOUR FIVE THREE. PD, SAN DIEGO, CALIF., OCTOBER FIFTEEN,
FIFTYSEVEN, UNDER NO. ONE FOUR FOUR ONE SEVEN EIGHT. SO,

SAN DIEGO » CALIF., OCTOBER SIXTEEN, FIFTYSEVEN, UNDER NO. ONE

SIX ZERO FOUR FIVE SIX. NUNBEROUS ARRESTS PD, MONTGOMERY ,
ALA. NINETEEN SIXTY. SO, CRESTVIEW, FLA.) APRIL TWENTYSIX, —
SIXIYONE. WAS INCARCERATED STATE BOARD OF CORRECTIONS,
MONTGOMERY, ALA. PD, ATLANTA, GAs, JANUARY TWENTYTWO,
SIXTYSiX, UNDER NO. TO THREE SEVEN ONE FIVE SIX. PD,
BIRMINGHAM, ALA., OCTOBER SEVENTEEN, SIXTYSIX, UNDER NO. ONE
FOUR ONE TyO NINE SIX. $0, LIVINGSTON, MONT., JANUARY TEN,
SEVENTY, UNDER NO. EIGHT “ONE THREE 1y0. PD, BRISTOL, TENN.,
WARCH ONE, SEVENTYONE, UNDER NO. SEVEN-FOUR ONE SEVEN. ALSO
SERVED TIME FEDERAL PRISON, CANP, MAXWELL AFB, ALA.
END PAGE THREE

: a. |
NW 55193 Docld:32989775 Page 115

re]



PAGE FOUR ;
ALL RECEIVING OFFICES ‘REVIEW FILES CONCERNING SUSPECT
JO DETERMINE RELATIVES, PAST ASSOCIATES. AND SPECIFIC
WHEREABOUTS JULY TWENTYSEVEN, TwENTYEIGHT, AND TWENTYNINE,
LAST. : : ;
ONE COPY EACH OF TWO PHOTOGRAPHS OF SUSPECT BEING
FORWARDED MINNEAPOLIS ANSD.
ARMED AND DANGEROUS.
END ;
f Tut FBI MP CLR

de
NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 116



FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64) . : @ Z .t ;

FBI
Date: 9/20/72

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

i AIRTEL :
MS _ (Priority)
wee ee nee Le ee eee
TO: SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567) , a

FROM: SAC, MILWAUKEE (7-500)(P)
SUBJECT:  PINAP :

Re Milwaukee teletype to Minneapolis,. 9/12/72.

Enclosed for Minneapolis are nine copies
, ' + each of two FD-302s reflecting interviews of
RONALD WILLIAM RAKAUSKAS and WILLIAM RAKAUSKAS.
Also enclosed are two eel ciiiae of RONALD WILLIAM
RAKAUSKAS. :

Investigation at Milwaukee continuing.

@ Minneap. olis (209 (Bn08.20)
Milvouk ee (2 - 7-500)

(i -91+3958)
RDP/1j fa
(5)

ye i

Special Agent in Charge 7 8U,S.Government Printing Office: 1972 — 455-574

Approved:



WR’ G2 SD PLAIN ‘
19:51AM 9-23-72 URGENT LuV
TO CHARLOTTE
MOBILE 7-596
MINNEAPOLIS ;
FROM SAN DIEGO 7-439 #

PINAP. 00:4P. : ; :
WILLIAM MARCUS RAY, AKA WILLIAM GORDON THANES, MARCUS SAVAGE -

FUGITIVE, ITSMV; 00: CE.

‘RE MOBILE TELETYPE TO ATLANTA, SEPTEMSER TWENTY -
TyO Las. Hee Hil :

REVIEW OF SDSO RECORDS REVEALED SUBJECT ARRESTED
OCTOBER SIXTEEN, FIFTY-SEVEW AND JANUARY TWENTYNINE :
FIFTY -EIGHT y ON CHARGES. AUTO THEFT Al)D CAR BURGLARY.
NAME OF CLOSEST RELATIVE AT TIME OF ARREST OW JANUARY
TWENTY-NINE, FIFTYEIGHT wAS SUBJECT'S FATHER, JEFF F.
RAY, FOUR ONE FOUR SOUTHSIDE, TUSKEGEE, ALABAMA.
ADDITIONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION INDICATED TELETYPE
ON RIGHT UPPER ARM OF CONFEDERATE FLAG, NO FUTHER ;
END PAGE ONE, :

Be .
NW 55193 poctataqetar7s—~-pagotshe” as 77 P



) 72439 : BeSeaeeaes eee
PAGE Tyo :
INFORMATION OF INVESTIGATIVE VALUE WAS FOUND.IN THESE
|. RECORDS. 40 ziz tect i
MOBILE, AT TUSKEGEE, ALABAMA. ATTEMPT TO
LOCATE SUBJECT *S FATHEC AT FOUR ONE FOUR EAST
SOUTHSIDE . ;
“END . eee

a

a
FBIOMP JLL CLRRRRRR

: “i
NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 119 *



et

NW 55193

9e23°e72

MEMO SAG: 7-567
From: SA M.0.EID
Subject: PINAP

RE: WILLIAM MARCUS RAY
aka.William Gordon Thames,
Marcus Erick Savage, Mark
Savage

6n 9-22-72 SA ARTHUR SULLIVAN obtained several photographs
William Marcus Ray which were obtained from Inspector of Det=
ectives, RUSSELL BARBER, Duluth,Minnesota Police Department.

On interview with BONNIE LYNN JOHNSON, it was developed that
she accompanied Ray to Mnneapolis,Minnesota on 8-7-72 when
they stayed at the Radisson Hotel until 8I)-72 when they ret-
urned to Duluth.

She also related that she and Ray went to Minneapolis,Minn.
on 9-10=72.. They were accompanied by Gary and Donna Johnson
brother and sister in law of Bonnie Johnson. They stayed at
the Radisson Hotel, taking rooms 316 and 318. While in MP they

_ate at the Nanking Cafe and also went to the Gay 90's and the
‘Roaring 20's, RAY appeared to be well known at the Gay 90's
by_the Black manager.

Investigations by SA Sullivan indicated that Ray stayed at the
Seaway Hotel in Duluth from 7-1h-72 and has his room rent paid
up until sometimé in October, 1972. Telephone charges at the
Seaway indicated that during a period of from 7-23-72 to 63-72
nimnxk there was a charge for one or more local telephone calls
for his room, indicating that his room was occupied. Also
Bonnie Anderson and or other members of her family were with
RAY at Duluth on 7-28-72 as well as 7-29-72 and 7-30-72. It
would appear that RAY possibility is not involved in PINAP.

LEAD: MP at MP will exhibit photos of shes to witnesses, for pos~
Sible “identification.

‘Krmed and Dangerous

Ihab Bch Aun p

ake
DocId:32989775 Page 120

(Pakage



ty

MP 7~567
AJS:kao
(1)

of

on September 21,

1972 the Charlotte Office advised

that a U. S. Magistrate's Warrant was issued on WILLIAM MARCUS
RAY, on July 18, 1972 by U. S. Magistrate J, PAUL TEAL at
Asheville, North Carolina, charging RAY with violation of

U. S. Code, Title 18, Section 2312 (Interstate Transportation
of Stolen Motor Vehicle).
theft and interstate transportation of a 1972 Cougar,

Vehicle Identification Number 2F94H501588, 1972 Alabama
license 3-9676 on or around May 28, 1972. Charlotte Office
advised that while in Asheville, North Carolina, RAY married

- JUDITH ANN MORGAN of Route Number 2, Chandler, North Carolina.
He left her at Asheville, North Carolina on July 3, 1972.

On September 22,

The specific charge involved the

1972 the Mobile Office advised ©

, RAY has the following relatives:

Former Wife

Former Wife

Former Parents-
in-law

Mother

Former Brother=
in-law

Sister

he

LNW 55193 DocId:325989775 Page 121 i

RITA RAY, RFD Number 11
Eastwood Mobile Home Village.
Birmingham, Alabama

WILMA SHERFEY RAY GLOVER, RFD Number 7
Bristol, Tennessee

Me. and Mrs. HENRY SHERFEY
1707 Florida, Bristol, Tennessee

LULA MAE (Mrs. JOSEPH VARNER,
629 Longview, Montgomery, Alabama)

JOSEPH CARL DESORMEAUX
Box 493, Anahuac, Texas

MARY SHEPARD, Poole Street 5
Extension, Woodruff, South Carolina



vo
2

MP 7-567 Heer
‘ATS tkao. :
(2) ate .

Sister Mrs, JOSEPH RUPERT
1014 First Avenue
Warner Robins, Georgia

Sister DOT BIRCH = *
_ 1673 Crouson :
» Montgomery, Alabama

ae

NW 55193 DoclId:32989775 Page 122 *
an



pH 207 RF, 11-27-70) e : ‘e
- mo. : roeuer

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

a “September 25,1972

‘ Dote of transcription

Inspector of Detectives RUSSELL BARBER, Duluth,
Minnesota Police Department, advised that his office was
currently conducting an investigation into the mysterious
death of VERNON BERGERUD, a Duluth resident. He explained
that BERGERUD's body was found in an abandoned residence
in Duluth which pac been destroyed by fire. BERGERUD was a
salesman for Bel and uate Company and had been last seen
.on September 12, os e conpany of one MARK SAVAGE.

Investigations disclosed that SAVAGE’ came to
Duluth, Minnesota on September 5, A972 and had been almost
constant company of one BONNIE J@AaNsoN, age :19, who lives with
her parents, Mr. and Mrs. WADE JOHNSON at 2834 Harvey Street
in Duluth, Minnesota. BARBER stated that investigations disclosed
that SAVAGE came originally from Montgomery, Alabama. In an
effort to determine his true identity and to develop information
about him, BARBER called the police department in Montgomery,
Alabama and determi: ned that MARK SAVAGE was identical witn
WILLIAM MARCUS RAY, FBI Number 730 258C, who is currently a
Federal fugitivé on an interstate Transportation of Stolen
Motor Vehicle charge.

According to BARBER, SAVAGE was last seen in Duluth
at about 1:30 a.m. on September 13, 1972 when he was stopped
by Duluth police officers driving BERGERUD' gs, 1969 Cadillac,
“four-door Deville, Minnesota license 857. SAVAGE was
ticketed for failing to have a driver's license but was released
by the officer, as he was with a female companion who was a
licensed driver. His companion was a hostess at the Hotel
Duluth. oa

BARBER stated. that SAVAGE's whereabouts are unknown;
. however, he is believed to still have BERGERUD's ‘car in his
possession. BARBER also stated that since Seotember 13, 19.72
SAVAGE has called the residence of GARY and DONNA JOHNSON,

2310 West Tenth Street in Duluth on a daily basis up until si
—_-the evening of Sentemhar 21,1972. GARY JOHNSON ics BONNIE JOHNSON' s

2-567. OOFY

Interviewed on o_Duiuth, Minnesota

jaceer 9/22/72

rh ARTHUR J. SULLIVAN AJS/kao
a a

Date dictated.

Thic anaes contains neither <izommtendotians sor conclusions of the FBI, I w.tho proporty of the FE! ond 1s loaned 10 your opéng

It and ils contents are not to be distributed outside your ayency.
NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 123



MP 7-567

brother. .SAVAGE has inguixed as to BONNIE JOHNSON's whereabouts
and has assumed that BONNIE has left the Duluth area; however,
she is staying at an aunt's home in West Duluth, Minnesota.
BARBER stated that when SAVAGE called on September 20, 1972,

he said he wouid come to Duluth September 23, 1972 to pick up
his belongings, which consisted primarily of clothing. BARBER
stated the police had the telephone of GARY JOHNSON monitored
and are staking the house out. BARBER stated they have been
unable to determine where SAVAGE is at the present time; however,
in one of the conversations, they overheard children crying in
the background. .

wh BARBER said the investigation was continuing on the
death of BERGERUD. A preliminary autopsy disclosed that
BERGERUD was dead before the fire, as his lungs were completely
clear of smoke and carbon. The body was subsequently : :
exhumed and a pathologist's examination disclosed that

BERGERUD suffered severe neck and trachea injuries leading

to the belief that BERGERUD had been strangled. BARBER said
they will not formally charge SAVAGE with the murder of BERGERUD
until they can apprehend him on the Federal warrant, feeling :
that publicity will frighten SAVAGE ‘away.

'

a a BARBER advised that he personally considered SAVAGE
a suspect in the PIPER kidnapping since recent photographs of
SAVAGE taken in company of BONNIE JOHNSON and GARY and DONNA
JOHNSON appeared very similar to the artist's conception of
Unknown Subject Number 2..which he had seen.

BARBER advised that his devartment had searched
SAVAGE's room, 315 Seaway Hotel,- in Duluth on an authorized
search warrant. Nothing of value wes found.. He made available
xerox copies of the hotel registration card which indicated that
SAVAGE checked in this hotel on July 14, 1972 at 8:45 a.m.
with two bags. He paid weekly rent of $17.39 and is paid up
until some date in October. BARBER was unsure of the exact date.
The hotel records indicated that SA‘ AGE was charged a total of
$3.90 for telephone calls. This wa: paid on September 8, 1972.

ae

| NW 55193 Docld:32989775 Page 124



MP 7-567

The phone calls were at the rate of ten cents each from

July 14, 1972 through August 8, 1972. During the period

July 23, 1972 to August 3, 1972 there was a charge for one or
more local telephone calls for each day. Hotel records
indicated that SAVAGE lived at 1629 Langheau (writing illegible)
Street, Monty, Alabama.

abe cess aaeae .

INW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 125 — : * eH |



Shoei os ‘ 4
ee e.. e
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum.

ao : SAC, MINNEAPOLIS: (7-567) (P) pate: 10/2/72
FROM : SA MALFORD O, EID
SUBJECT: PINAP

CO; MINNEAPOLIS

SUSPECT WILLIAM MARCUS RAY
Re telephone ‘Call from SA THOMAS E, SAUNDERS
10/2/72 relative to a polygraph examination to be given
ane to WILLIAM MARCUS RAY.

Inspector of Detectives RUSSELL BARBER, Duluth
Police Department, Duluth, Minnesota, advised on 10/2/72
that he had no objection to a polygraph examination being
given to RAY who is in custody both on an ITSMV warrant
“and a murder warrant.

, On 10/2/72 RAY's Attorney, JOHN D, DURFEE,
628 First American National Bank,Building, was contacted
relative to a polygraph on his client, At first DURFEE .
stated under no consideration would he subject RAY to
such an examination even if it was for elimination purposes
on the PINAP case. After discussing the matter with
DURFEE in full, he stated he would leave the iihaieatel decision
ie to his client, 7

on 10/2/72 RAY was contacted at the St. Louis
County Jail in Duluth with his Attorney DURFEE being
present. After hearing Mr. DURFEE's objection to the
polygraph examination, RAY stated that he would subject
himself to such an examination inasmuch as he had
absolutely nothing to do with the PINAP case.

After hearing the information, DURFEE stated
that in view of his client's permission that he would
allow such a polygraph to be given with the understanding
that he, DURFEE, would be present during the polygraph

test.
Pape” eroug J - SER CMA?
SEARCHED___INDEXEB, —.__

SERIALIZED___2*~ FILED.
oct 3 1972

ji — MINNEAPOLIS

@ on oui |

MOE :keu jung
wes w

Buy v S. Sopings a Reenbariyzen the Payroll Savings Plan
D Wodatetatiy

seto-1ot02

STIS —Docia 32989775: jem A Of oe



FO-302 (REV. 11-27-70) e e

cL FEDERAL BUREAU: OF INVESTIGATION

10/2/72

Date of transcription,

Mrs. DONNA M. JOHNSON, 2310 West Tenth Street,
‘Duluth, advised that when she first met MARK SAVAGE, now
known by his true name as WILLIAM MARCUS RAY, on July 8,
1972, at Beaner's Bar at Superior, Wisconsin, he lit her
cigarette using a matchbook that had an unusually attractive
,design, which she believed was from the Fireplace or Fireside
Inn, Chicago, Illinois. She was shown four different match-
book covers, all black in color, and she immediately picked
thé one from the Fireside Inn and said this was exactly like
, the one she had seen on July 8, 1972.

i
i
i
i
i
|
f
q
i
1

tneeviowed on__9/28/72 ‘4 Duluth, Minnesota ting MP 7-567 ~ 678°
\
1 by SA ROBERT E, WALTON:dib «pate dielea___ 9729/72
q This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

it ond ils contents are nol 10 Ad. distributed outside your agency. a

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 127 * ul 4



FD-302 (REV, 11-27-70)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date of transcription, 10/2/72

: GARY JOHNSON, 2310 West Tenth Street, Duluth,
Minnesota, was interviewed concerning his knowledge of
WILLIAM MARCUS RAY, known to him in Duluth as MARCUS SAVAGE,
and his possible connection with the PIPER kidnapping case.

JOHNSON said hé first met RAY at Beaner's Bar,

Superior, Wisconsin, July 8, 1972, along with his wife,
‘DONNA, and his sister, BONNIE JOHNSON. GARY said RAY spent
a lot of money while he knew him in Duluth and it must have
ran into the thousands. He .did not know the source of his
money and RAY never explained.- GARY said that the four of
them attended the Tri-State Fair in Superior, Wisconsin, on
Friday night, July 28, 1972, and that on Tuesday evening,

ea duly 25, 1972, he was with RAY from about 6 P.M, to 11 P.M;
that they went to the Target store in Duluth together where
they ran into GARY's mother and his sister, BONNIE. GARY
said that RAY visited he and his wife at their home on July
26, 1972, and was there from about 4 P.M. to 10 P.M,

On Saturday, July 29, 1972, GARY was at his father's

* home, 2834 Harvey Street, Duluth, around noon when RAY came
to the place and helped him fix the lawn mower which had broken
down. : d

GARY JOHNSON was wearing a pair of construction
worker's boots when interviewed and was asked if RAY ever
had worn a Similar type of shoe. GARY said that RAY did
have a pair and that he was wearing them for several days

-around July 25 and July 26, 1972. He said they were dark
brown in color and,had white or cream colored crepe soles.
He said RAY at all other times either wore cowboy boots or
-loafers,

Interviewed on,

9/26/72 Dyluth, Minnesota MP 7-56% 6 / 75
a, File #

SA ROBERT E. wanton ana
hy SA ARTHUR J. SULLIVAN;"\ /AgS:d1b ate dtettea___ 9/29/72

This document contains neither recommendations norcdnclusions of the FBI, It is the property of the FB! and is loaned to your agency;
Gnd ts, contents ore not to bo, distributed outside your agency.
cs

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 128



L ad

FD-302 (REV. 11-27-70) ‘< )

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WILLIAM MARCUS. RAY was interviewed at the St. Louis
County Jail, Duluth, and advised as follows:

RAY advised that he would willingly discuss his
activities involving the theft of a 1972 Cougar in Montgomery,
Alabama, in May, 1972, subsequently taking it to Asheville,
North Carolina, and his activities since July 8, 1972, when

_he left Asheville, suddenly abandoning the Cougar at the

home of JUDITH MORGAN. He signed a Waiver of Rights form.

He said he used the name WILLIAM GORDON THAMES,
the name of the real owner of the Cougar, during his entire
stay in North Carolina. He said he flew from Asheville to
Washington, D. C. via Piedmont Airlines and transferred to
American Airlines in Washington, and continued on to New
York City where he landed at Lagurdia Field. He believed
the ticket cost him about $77. He checked into a Americana
Hotel in New York on July 3, 1972.

On July 4, 1972, he flew to Detroit, Michigan, via
American Airlines, paying about $66 in cash for the ticket,
and stayed at the Hotel Poncharttrain for about three days. °
He said he believed he used the name MARK SAVAGE during
these travels. He next flew from Detroit to Chicago, had
a, layover of about five hours, and then tock a North Central
Airlines flight to Duluth, Minnesota. He bought the ticket
from the American Airlines counter in Detroit. When he

-arrived in Duluth on About July 6 or July 7, 1972, he checked

into the Hotel Duluth, and stayed about seven days. He then
checked into the Seaway Hotel in Duluth, which had much
more reasonable rates.

He said he met BONNIE JOHNSON of Duluth, along
with her brother, GARY JOHNSON and GARY's wife, DONNA, on
July 8, 1972, at Beaner's Bar in Superior, Wisconsin. He
said he became very attracted to BONNIE and started dating
her; however, shortly after he met her she attempted a re-
conciliation with her husband, ROBERT CLARK, an airman at
the Duluth Air Base. BONNIE was in the process of getting
a_divorce from CLARK.

Date of trasiscristion__ 10/2/72

by,

Unterviewed on,

SA ROBERT. E. WALTON; and
SA ARTHUR J. SULLIVAN _AaJS:d1b pate extorea___ 9/29/72

NW 55193

This document contains neither recormmendatigas e conclusions of the FBI Il ts the property of the Fel and is looned to your agency;
iI and its contents ore not to be ae of

ide your agency.
Doeld:32989775 Page 129

9/25-26/72 o_Muluth, Minnesota cue g MP 7-567— G/T¥



MP 7-567

RAY said he would call BONNIE or she would call
him at the Seaway Motel on almost a daily basis during the
latter part of July, 1972, and early part of August, 1972.
He said he had nothing to do with the PIPER kidnapping case
and knew very little about it. He recalled that on July 28
Or July 29, 1972, he, BONNIE and GARY and DONNA JOHNSON went
to the Tri-State Fair in Superior, Wisconsin, and Sunday,
July 30, 1972, the four of them went on a picnic to Patterson
Park in Superior. He said if he were involved in the kid-
napping where a million dollars was taken, he certainly
would not be sticking around Duluth. 7

ata RAY said he estimated he spent between $8,000 to

$9,000 in cash from the time he came to Duluth until he

was arrested by the Duluth Police Department on September
24, 1972, at which time he had less then $1 in his pocket.
When asked about the source of this money, RAY stated he

, had some money with him when he arrived in Duluth, and had
been given approximately $10,500 in cash during the time he
spent in Duluth. He explained that about four years ago
‘he tipped off a. businessman in Alabama on a scheme where
the businessman made $486,000. He claims that what he, RAY,
did was not illegal, that he was present in a hotel room
either in Birmingham or Montgomery, Alabama, when $486,000
in cash was delivered to this businessman. RAY refused to
disclose this man's name or the nature of his dealings.

ie &

RAY said the $10,500 he received was from this
man in acknowledgemént of the favor RAY had done for him.

RAY claims that on July 20, 1972, he flew from
Duluth to Chicago via North Central Airlines in an early
morning flight, rented a Ford car from Hertz, and drove to
Rockford, Illinois, where he met a man by prearrangement at
the Best Western Motel, which is the first one on the right
after coming off the interstate. He said he had lunch with
this man who gave him $1,400 or $1,500 in cash, and he then
drove back to Chicago and flew back to Duluth that evening.
This money he said was in partial payment for the.services
he had rendered the Alabama man four years ago,

oe

NW 55193 Docld:32989775 Page 130



ws

MP 7-567

RAY said that on another occasion he received
either a registered or certified letter containing $4,000
in cash all in $100 bills. This was received in Duluth,
and he was also delivered by another man, $5,000 in cash.
a RAY said he made two trips to Minneapolis during
“the time he spent in Duluth. The first one was along with
BONNIE JOHNSON and they flew to Minneapolis on about August
22, 1972, stayed several days at the Radisson Hotel, and re-
turned to Duluth with BONNIE's parents, Mr. and Mrs. WARD
JOHNSON, who had driven to Minneapolis to get them.

On the weekend of September 8-10, 1972, RAY said
BONNIE, GARY, and DONNA JOHNSON, and he drove to Minneapolis
in GARY's car, that they rented a suite, Room Suite3i6 and
318, and that he paid approximately $148 for the rooms.

When asked about the safe deposit box key #34,
which he had given to BONNIE JOHNSON to hold for him, RAY,
after a long hesitation, said this key belonged to him,
that it was a safe deposit box key, and that he did not
care to discuss it. He refused to disciose the name of
the bank, but subsequently said he had rented the box in
dune, 1972, while he was in North Carolina, and that he
had .used the name SHAL ERIC RIVERS in renting the box.

At that time, he said he has also used the name SHAL ERIC
_ BRANDON. ; :

At the cdnclusion of the interview, RAY reaffirmed
his innocence in the PIPER case, said he had admitted his
interstate transportation of a stolen car, but that he knew
nothing whatsoever of the PIPER case.

RAY is described as follows: Coe

7 Sex Male
Race White
Date of Birth July 15, 1939, Macon :
County, Alabama ic
Height 5 feet 94 inches
Weight 200 pounds i
’
-3- 7

ab
NW 55193 DocId:329§9775 Page 131 ' :



| MP 7-567

Eyes
Hair
Naval Service

Blue
Light brown,
October 22,

curly
1956,

to June,

Navy Serial Number
Social Security Number
Occupation

Tattoos | wot

1958,

received undesireable

discharge

490 34 53

[ore act 6 (3)

Diesel mechanic on heavy
construction equipment

The head of Christ on his
back; a confederate flag
and the name "Alabama" on
upper right arm; the names
MARCUS and MARGIE in a
heart on upper left arm

RAY said he likes to be known as coming from Ala-
bama, and many of the night spots in Duluth, when he came on
the-scene, would make it Alabama night or play an Alabama
song in his honor.

be

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 132 ' ’



FD-302 (REV. 11-27-70}

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

wg. : October 4, 1972

- ~ Date of transcription.

: i The folloying photographs were shown to
Mrs. CHARLES E. PRICE, 502 Second Avenue Southeast,
Minneapolis, Minnésota: :

Pa ;
WILLIAM MARCUS RAY, born July 15, 1949
WILLIAM MARCUS BBY, P

RAYMOND DE) MOE, Duluth, Minnesota, Police Department
No. K9354

BERNARD FRANCIS Moet, St. Paul, Minnesota,
Police Department #51683

z cane :
a7 NORMAN LEWIS HALVERSON, JR., a No. 923 754 D

Ge_R- Vi dé ( KroNSNAERGER, Hennepin County, Minnesota,

Sheryffits Office No. 10105

Mrs. PRICE selected the picture of HALVERSON
and said he looked like the man she saw stealing the 1972
Monte Carlo from J. N. Larson Chevrolet Company parking .
lot duly 11, 1972. However, HALVERSON's face is too 7
full and HALVERSON's hair is pushed up on top of his head

_more than was the hair of the car thief. HALVERSON has

“a double chin which the car thief did not have.

= + Mrs. PRICE said she would bé willing a rook at -
more pictures of-suspects.

Re Serial 6001. ‘.
HS67%- CRAP
‘SEARCHED. INDEXED
: SERIALIZED_—2_FILED
oct a 1972
FRI — MINNEAPOLIS,
oe
i 9/29/72 : . Minneapolis, Minnesota rie #__ MP 7-567
Interviewed on, al inl
SA MALFORD 0. EID and
SA WARREN G. WHITWORTH: WGWsebl : 10/2/72

by. M Dote dicloted,

This document contoins neither rocgmmendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It Is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agencyy
Hl ond its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 133
[SS



fa - 5 S Ppeaeeec!

FD-36 (Rev, $-22-64) @ eo
| : FBI
: Date: 9/30/72

Transmit the following in

(Type tn plaintext or code}

_ AIRTEL ATRMATL
(Priority) ~
TO: SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567)
FROM: SAC, BIRMINGHAM (7-749)(P)
PINAP -
: " Re Mobile teletype to Atlanta and other SACs,
ee 9/22/72, and Minneapolis teletype to Acting Director, ©
9/24/72, captioned "WILLIAM MARCUS RAY, aka - FUGITIVE,
ITSMV".

Investigation on 9/22/72, by SA RALPH N. BUTLER
reflects RITA RAY, daughter of MACK MILES, Route 11,
Edstwood Mobile Home Village, Birmingham, Alabama, ex-wife
of WILLIAM MARCUS RAY, still resides with her parents at
the aforementioned address. Contact with the manager of
Eastwood Mobile Home Village reflects RITA was not at the
residence on 9/22/72.

: On 9/24/72, Minneapolis teletype ‘to the: Bureau
reflects subject apprehended.

RITA RAY not being contacted in view of subject's
apprehension, ° 7

Investigation continuing Birmingham.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

Dy wees 9-567 686
erate :

CLTG
FBI—MINNEAPOL |

{
a
Approved: Be Q\

Sent : M- Per

YE U. 5. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OF Ft

NW 55193 Doora:328asri¢h Aq

1971 -419—138.



Fe, mee ee D7 Pole . ) C

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

10/10/72

' . Date ot transcription

Tower Homes,
LIAL MARCUS
Ray. suspect in this matter, is familiar, but he does
not believe he has had any contact with him. Mr. ARCHIBALD
made a check of prospect cards and there were no prospect
cards for WILLIAM MARCUS RAY or MARK SAVAGE, which is an
alias for RAY. One prospect card was found for a BOB SAVAGE o
Hoyt Lakes, Minnesota, who listed employment at Erie Mining,
April, 1972. : .

Mr. crepertel ARCHIBALD,

7? —- 56 7- 6 7a:

SEARCHED. INDEXED _
SERIALIZED 2" fivep__77

OCT 121972

F8I— MINNEAPOLIS,

i =" : le?
9/29/72 a Superior, Wisconsin Fite #=_MI_ 7-500  ___

Interviewed on,

SA CLIFFORD E HUBTA/14 Bese aise 10/5/22

by.

lt is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency:

This document contains neuher reg@amendotions sor conclusions of the FOL,
Lond ils coments are not to be distributed outside your ogency.
INW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 135



400100002, “Oo 5 @
MNFBIMPOO PS ee é
NCIC SUMMARY MULTIPLE STATE FBI/730258C 10/16/72
EH RAY, WILLIAM MARCUS M W AL DOB/071539 HGT/51i WGT/180 EYE/HAZ
HAI/BAL MNU/NS-4903453 FPC /1SAAO3TTOSO7AAAATIIT

ADDITIONAL IDENTIFIERS-.

aKaegy, WILLIAM EUGENE/RAY, WILLIAM RAY/RAY, MARCUS
societal :

TOTAL ARRESTS - 15

400200002
MNFBIMPOO
| *GHARGES CONVICTIONS OFFENSE

1 HHO BURGLARY i
1 “y. LaRceny

eg 1 STOLEN VEHICLE —
2 4 _. FORGERY AND COUNTERFEITING
5 i 5 - FRAUDULENT ACTIVITIES

: 1: . 0. FAMILY OFFENSES fi
4L.0300002 a
: MNFBIMPOO

CHARGES CONVICTIONS OFFENSE (CON'T) : i Aaaat

0 ood OBSTRUCTION JUDICIARY, ETC
4 0, TRAFFIC OFFENSE
1 °° 0 PUBLIC ORDER CRIES

Pe CG? EF 2°

LAST ARREST STATUS (INCLUDED ABOVE)- : Het
[seascaeo———“inoixen _2

: 052971 BRISTOL PD TN gt Seraaigen erent
QO! FORGERY- ° aH ; OCT 16 1972
A . : an EBt— MINNEAPOLI:
END ae oe a7p iy
Ae +
BASED ON FBI NUMBER ONLY :  ~COERF Peek TO Fett:

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 136



~- — = —
aN cprioniat. FORM NO. 10 r

MAY 1082 EOITION
GSA FPUR (41 CFR) s01-n.8

“ UNITED STATES GOVEXNMENT

Memorandum

.TO SAG 7-567 : : DATE! 19.20.72 |
FROM .} M.0.EID

SUBJECT: pTNAP

On the’night of 10-16-72 RICHARD YAGODA, Detective Bureau, Duluth,
Minnesota’ Police Department advised that he had arrested MELVIN D.
PEDERSON of Duiuth,Minnesota, age 23 on a charge of Contempt of ~~~
Court. He stated PEDERSON is on Federal Parole for car theft and his
parole officer is MELVIN SMITH, Minneapolis,Minnesota. Yagoda stated
PEDERSON lives at 9428 Grand Avenue, Duluth,Minn., and that he was
born 1-25-49 at Alexandeta, Minnesota. YAGODA stated PEDERSON rem-~
ey to him that he had some information to offer concerning the
IAP case.

On 10,17-72 MELVIN PEDERSON was interviewed at the St.LouisCounty
Jail/in Duluth,Minn. He stated he is the brother in law of KENNETH
uKRONBERG who was killed in the Arturos Tavern in Minneapolis,Minn.

» TEH’Taly, 1972. PEDERSON was in Minneapolis at the time and was out-
side the tavern when KRONBERG was shot. He explained KRONBERG
married hi's sister DONNA, PEDEKSON stated KRONBERG was killed by
JOE BOGWHBER. He did/not’ know specifically what the killing was
‘about but from what he understood BALLWEBER killed KRONBERG ‘becasue
a sum of money was owed by BALLWEBER to KRONBERG. PEDZRSON believed
this involved the PINAP case because early in 1972 and as late as

a in May, 1972 KRONBERG used to make numerous visits to Duluth,Minn.
During these times KRONBERG would get high on drugs and when he was
-under the influence of -drugs, he would get very talkative. On one of
these occasions, KRONBERG told him that a "big score" was planned ax
if it turned out right, he KRONBERG would no longer have to resort
to "boosting" for a living. PEDERSON stated that KRONBERG belonged
to a gang that went throughout the country shoplifting diamonds,
jewelry, fur coats and anything else they could lay a hand on. |
PEDERSON stated over the years KRONBERG and his gang (whom Pederson
would not identify) have stolen thousands of dollars in Shandise
which PEDERSON stated would be fenced principally to FREHIAN, a big
fenee in Minneapolis,Minn. He stated FREEMAN owns or“oyerates a
string of department stores, and is very wealthy. PED#ISON stated he
questioned KRONBERG about the "big score" but KRONBERG would not

elaborate on it. :
. 7- SE7- PLOS

‘SEARCiICD___INDEXED.
‘SERIALIZED____ FILED.

OCT 2 11972

FBI—MINNEAPOLIS ,

ah i : 7 7)

Nw 3 Docld:32989775, Page 137 _° if 7 '
MW AP BOT ID, PATS AST Dy ty aw phe Dourall Contec Plow

,



za ee,

PEDERSON stated that, shortly after the death of KRONBERG, his sister
(PEDERSON's sister) DONNA started going with a man named’ VAN CLIPPER.
He stated his sister did live at 4719 NorthShore in Minnatonka

and she still owns this property. However she now lives on a house
with VAN CLIPPER on Penn Avenue North in Minneapolis,Minn. PEDERSON
stated that VAN CLIPPER is in with the boosting group in Minneapolis
Minnesota, more or less on the fringe. However VAN CLIPPER knows abou
their activities. He stated he understood that VAN CLIPPER was to
marry DONNA on 10-17 or 10-18=72.

Approximately two weeks ago PEDERSON was at his sisters home on ©
Penn Avenue North visi In the house at the/time besides his
-sister were KELLY MAT?SON and a man named "Tubby", He did not know
much about them 6ther than that they were Visiting. During the visit

7 the PIPER case came up and the general remarks made at the time was

7 that KRONBERG was mixed up in the kidnapping. and that he had some

a money coming as a result of his involvement, They asked PEDERSON if
he knew the identity of "ALABAMA" who was from Duluth and whose
“true name was believed to-start™ with "DON". The group (no one spec-
ifically) requested that inasmuch as was from Duluth he should
attempt to identify "Alabama" as he was supposed t to be involved in
the kidnapping with KRONBERG.

: PEDERSON stated that he did meet a man named DON who visited with
_ KRONBERG possibly in May or June, 1972 at the Penny Parking lot in
“the Plaza, located in the East end of Duluth. At the time KRONBERG
had come to Duluth and had picked up PEDERSON and they had driven
to the Parking lot. The man "Don" came walking to the lot and KRON-
7 BERG got out of the car and they stood and talked in front of the
“. the ear for possibly one half an hour. He described DON as MW, 6',
180, Dark brown hair, 28-30 years old. He did not hear him talk pat
when PEDERSON was shown photographs of Unsubs in ha Piper case, he
stated DON resembled him .

PEDERSON stated that he feels sure that the individuals involved in
the PIPER case are from Minneapolis and that the FBI probably have
already talked to them. He stated the group in his sisters house
told him that they wanted to get Alabama bedause they felt he was in

- with BALLWEBER and that KRONBERG was killed to prevent him from
obtaining his share in the aaoreee -

PEDERSON a eae that whenever kAonBERG came to purée he would stay
at the Hotel 21 Duluth, the Holi day_Inn or the Edgewater. 5 East or Rest
Motel and sometimes stay at the Ratisson. He recalled that KRO RG”
was in Duluth during the first par‘ of July and stayed at this hotel
until 7-4 or 7-5-72 when he returnci to Minneapoliis. He did not know
who KRONBERG contacted but stated as he recalled KRONBERG did call
him while he was there. He accompanied KRONBERG back to Minneapolis
and .stayed with him until he was killed.

SEARCH. y—INDE: 3e_-—_—,
‘SERIALIZED! _ FILE:

dk
NW 45193 DocId:329§99775 Page 138 a



:

wenn:
(@w. @D
; + 36 : :
PEDERSON stated that he could not recall specifically if the group!
that was present when he visited his sister, or whether he got it

from "street talk" that the ransom paid in the Piper case was -
sold to a fence for $250,000. He was asked specifically if he knew

1

the identity of the "Fence" and he stated he did not. He replied thaz |

the only man he knew of in the Twin city area that would be capable
of handling such a large quantity of money would be FREBMAN.

PEDERSON stated that he is going to try and get out on bond on

his contempt charge and if he does he is going to try and develop
more information on "Alabama" whem he believed to be a man named
"Don", He felt that WILLIAM who is in the County Jail at Duluth
is involveé in the PIPER ca He stated he is known as "Alabama"
and is from the South. He believed Ray may have spent some time in
Minneapolis.

PEDERSON stated that should he “be le to get out of jail on bond
he will return to Minneapolis eventually and will no doubt he
staying with his mother YVONNE NORD at 1118-14th Avenue NE.,

Minneapolis,Minn. phone 336-1356.

It is pointed out that PEDERSON is aware that the U.S.Probation
office is in. the process of revoking his pzpole and it is felt that
PEDERSON may be trying to work out some arrangement where his
parole will not be revoked. PEDERSON is not specific in his state-

“ments and when trying Oo pin him down he becomes evasive and vague.
On 10-18-72 JUNE WAGNER, secretary at the Hotel Duluth advised her

records showed Tt ETH KRONBERG of 4209 Colfax Avenue North in
Minneapolis checked in this hotel on 6-30-72 and out on 7-5-72. He
made one phone call from’ his room which was recorded as 729-7613

_which was then the phowle of MELVIN D. PEDERSON.
I

Om 10-18-72 JAKE Wi L, Edgewater East and West Motel in Duluth
stated his records Showéd“that KENNETH KRONBERG of 4209 Colfax Ave.,
North in MPLS checked in this motel on 3-10-72 and out on 3-14-72
skipping a motel bill of $62.11. There were a total of 8 phone calls,
none of which were recorded. KRONBERG also checked in the Edgewater
West on 9-8-71 and out on 9-11-72 at which time he was with three
people (identity unknown). He was driving a car with Minnesota
license 4BT315 and when he checked out he had a motel bill of $72.33
which he jumped. There were no phone calls. .
i he developed on Piper

With respect tp PEDERSON, he was advised that any information/he cas.

he sould make available to the FBI,on {h8xRZRERxZuxe but that it was

known that he was on parole and if ne got out on bond, that unier
no circumstances should he conside: himself to be working for the
FBI, 7 :

The status of PEDEKSON will be followed.

ak

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 139 :
iGbe tiie seeded



SAC, SACRAMENTO . 10/25/72
SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567)
PINAP

ZL
RE: SUSPECT WILLIAM MARCUS RAY, aka MARK sayde

Enclosed for the Sacramento Office is a photo of
subject, RAY, along with copies of FD 302 showing investiga-
tions conducted at Superior, Wisconsin. For information ef
the Sacramento Office, subject. is in the St. Louis County
Jail, Duluth, Minnesota, charged with First Degree Murder.
While he was in Duluth, Minnesota, at times he had con~
siderable sums of money in his possession. Investigations
-disclosed that RAY dickered for a mobile home in Superior,

, Wisconsin, and was handied by tneir salesman, ED KASPAIR.
The mobile home was not actually purchased by SAVAGE and
witnesses in Superior are not completely certain that RAY
and SAVAGE are identical.

On October 18, 1972, Mrs. EDWARD G._KASPAIR,_
_4917 Hermantown Road, Duluth, Minnesota, advised”her son,
“EDWARD KASPAIR, formerly worked at the Tower Homes_in_
Superior, Wisconsin, but that in August, 1972, he moved to
Sacramento, California, and is presently Living in an
apartment on Oak Drive in Sacramento. She stated her son
is married, wife MARLIS, and that he is probably engaged
in selling mobile homes in Sacramento at the present time.
She had no local address for him in Sacramento but stated
when she got a letter from him she would advise the FBI at
Duluth, Mimesota.

LEAD:
i SACRAMENTO DIVISION

AT SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA

Will attempt to locate EDWARD KASPAIR on Oak
Drive or through mobile home contacts and interview him
to determine if enclosed photo of RAY is identical to
MARK SAVAGE and, if on the mobile home transaction, if
SAVAGE displayed large amounts of money. . i in
2- GOP7-7 BL.

2. Sacramento (Enc. 3)

: ¢2/« Minneapolis
per Lo re

Seoretia?



HP 7-567
TES :ban

@)

RE: WYLLTAH MARCUS RSY

WILLIAM MARCUS RAY was afforded a polygraph ezamina=
tion on October 16, 1972, by SA HERBERT F, BRIICK at the St.
Louis County Jail, Buluth, Minnesota, JOHN DURFEE, attorney
for RAY, advised he did not believe RAY to be a gocd polygraph
subject inasmuch as he considers him to be a pathological liar.

Charts of RAY's vesponses to the various pertinent
questions tend .to indicate he is not directly involved in the
kidnaping, that he dees not know who cosmitted the kidnaping,
nor would he refuse te tell the PSI if he did know who kidnaped
Hes. PIPER, :

Beeause of certain restrictions placed on the test
by R4Y's attorney which prevented the establishuent of suitable
control questions for comparison with pertinent questions and
further consideration of the fact RAY ray be a pathological
Liar, exauiner's opinion was qualified and test results
indefinite.

STIS—DeordS2969995—Page—143—



yr!
t

DN 7-699 ©
CHM: jek Daas

The following investigation was conducted by
SA CHARLES M, WOJCIESZAK: ,

On the following dates the following ene
were contacted regarding the possibility of their respective
banks having a safety deposi? box numbered 745-18/with the
holder being SHAL ERIC RIVERS or WILLIAM HARCUS RAY. ATT

of said inquiries” met With? egative” results.
Western National Bank -~

; ROBERT HAMPER
aul Lovell, Wyoming
. duly 9, 1974

First National Banks --

“HELEW LUMLEY
Thermopolis, Wyoming
dune 7, 1974

BERT HARRIS
Greybull,. Wyoming
dune 24, 1974 e

RON BAKER
Meeteetse, Wyoming
dune 7, 1974 .

CARL YORGASON
Lovell, Wyoming
duly 9, 1974

DON BABBIT
Worland, Wyoming
June 24, 1974

NADA IVY : SE PH LI PAP
Powell, Wyoming i WA s er
duly 9, 1974 HE

ae
NW 55193 Docld:32989775 Page 142



Poueuraeenert areas a . 7 Bee ee eee

MP 7=567
(1)
PIN cac

RE: WILLIAM MARCUS RAY;
CHARLES NEUMAN GAULT
ci Investigation of RAY was reinstituted based on
Foo. ‘information to the effect,‘that he claims to have been person=
eeeseeet ally involved in the PIPER kidnaping; that he had deposited
one million dollars in a safe deposit box at the First Western
Pa National Bank, Cody, Wyoming. He reportedly rented the safe
deposit box from a bank employee named, ACREMA, and sea the
name SHAL ERICK RIVERS in renting the box.
RAY also indicated that a one CHARLES GAULT from
somewhere in Alabama was involved with him in the PIPER kid=
naping; that GAULT comaited suicide in December 1973.

“= - . On-May 10, 1974, SA CHARLES E. NELSON, JR., caused
the records of the following agencies to be checked with °
negative results regarding CHARLES GAULT:

G.-T. LOGAN, Jefferson County Sheriff's Office JOY
TANCE, Birmingham Police Department FRANCES B. CHIFTON, Mer
chants Credit Association PATRICIA A. HORN, Recorders Court,
City of Birmingham, Mrs. BOBBIE B. HENDERSON, Bureau of Vital
Statistics, Jefferson County Health Department.

The following investigation was conducted tele-
-,° phonically by SA DAN OQ. STEPHENS at « Monfigonery, Alabama, on’
- June 4, 1974:

JEAN HUCKABEE, Bureaa of Vital Statistics, Alabama
Department of Health, advised as follows:

Her office maintains central name files for all
births and deaths occurring in state. Death records are
listed by name, date, and County of death. Birth records are
filed according to names or parents, date, and County of birth:
in connection with birth records, no search can be made on
a@ name only. &t least, date and place must be known

see wh

NW 55193 Docld:32989775 Page 143 "



MP 7=567
© (2)
PUNecac

before a Search could be attémpted and, with this information
“ only, the search would not ba accurate.

; A search of the files for years 1970 to present

failed to reveal any death record under surname,. GAULT.

. it ’ BOBBIE SHIRLEY, Driver's License Division, Alabama
vt Department. of Public Safety,. advised as follows:

Her records reflect. current license 41551115 is
2 held by CHARLES NEWMAN GAULT, 2341 Laurelview Place, Birming=
ham, Alabama. This individual has held this License since
oa , October 30, 1954. When it was originally issued, licensee's
: tea address was listed as 917 Fourth Court, West, Birmingham. He
was then described as a WM, Date of Birth Ocotber. 30, 1938,
Height sti", Weight 160 pounds, with blue eyes and brown
hair. :

i. “ . File reflects no other addresses for this individual,
nox does it reflect license ever expired at anytime after
original license was issued.

She was unable to locate any other record under
name CHARLES GAULT.

Je Be JOLLEY (NA), Investigation and Identification
Division, Alabama Department of Public Safety, advised as
£ollows:

His records reflect CHARLES NEWMAN GAULT, HM, Date
of Birth October 30, 1938, FBI#515261F, has a lengthy arrest
’ record between 1959 and 1970, for burglary, grand larceny,
Interstate transporation of stolen mokor vehicles, and buying.
and receiving stolen property, His most recent record is
May 22, 1970, when GAULT was fingerprinted by Alabama Board

‘

he

NW 55193 DocTd:32989775 Page 144 ° a a



“MP 7-567
(3)
PIUscac

of Corrections when received to serve three years for buying
and receiving stolen property. His home address was then
“Listed as 2341 Laurel Place, Birmingham, Alabama. His cccu=
pation was listed as "self-employed ~ auto parts."

He was unable to locate any other record under the
name CHARLES GAULT. : :

ag. S, BALINT, Records Division, Montgomery Police
Department, and J. D. GAFFORD, Montgomery County Sheriff's
Office, advised they were unable to locate a record under
the above name.

MARY DUNCAN, Records Office, Alabama Board of
. ieeauae Corrections, Mount Meigs, Alabama, advised on June '5, 1974,
ESauaaut aa follows: ¢
Her records reflect CHARLES NEWMAN GAULT, Prison
* $100734, was received May 28, 1970, from Jefferson County,
Alabama, to serve three years for buying and receiving stolen
property. He was released on parole February 8, 1971. GAULT's
wife is listed as ELIZABETH GAULT, 2341 Laurelview Place,
Birmingham, and his parents as HOY and Lois GAULT, 917 Fourth
Court, West, Birmingham, Alabama.

DUNCAN provided a photograph of GAULT, taken May 28,
1970, which is enclosed for Minneapolis.

DAVID W. WILLIAMS, Supervisor, State Pardon and
Parole Board, Montgomery, Alabama, advised on dune 5, 1974,
as follows: SREEEEER PanareEE

His records reflect. CHARLES NEWMAN GAULT, Prison
#100734, was serving a three year concurrent sentence for
Interstate transportation of stolen motor vehicles imposed By
United States District Court, Northern District Alabama.

whe.

NW 55193 Docld:32989775 Page 145 © ‘I x '



_ BP 7-567

{4)
PON cag

. ® hen paroled on February 8, 1971, he was turned over to

United States Marshal, Montgomery, Alabama, with a request
that his office be notified upon GAULT's discharge, parole
ex death. His file reflects no information subsequently
received and his current :status is unknown.

JANE SHACKELFORD, Clerk, Office of United States
Marshal, Northern District Alabama,. Montgomery, advised June
5, 1974, her records reflect CHARLES NEWMAN GAULT was re=
ceived from Alabama Board of Corrections, February 8, 1971,
ang was transported to Federal Correction Institution, Texar=
kana, Texas, February 15, 1971, te serve balance of three
year sentence imposed by United States District Court,
Northern District Alabama, February G, 1970. She stated his
current status is unknown. : :

HENRY ALVARADO, Record Clerk, Federal Correctional

Institution, Texarkana, Texas, advised SA SAM C,. COTTON on
“dune 18, 1974 that CHARLES NEWMAN GAULT was transferred to

the Camp at Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, on June 28,
1971. ALL filles and records on GAULT followa him on this
transfer. . «

lk

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 146
PEE LL



DN 7-639
CMY: cr]
i. 7

: The following investigation was conducted by SA
CHARLES M. WOJCIESZAK: :

AT CODY, WYOMING

A veview of ‘the Mountain Rell Telephone directory
for Northwest Wyoming, which covers Cody, Wyoming and the
remainder of the Big Horn Basin failed to reveal a bank known
as First Western National Bank or any other bank with the
initials FWN. Said review did reveal banks at Thermopolis,
Greybull, Meeteetse, Cody, Lovell, Worland and Powell, Wyoming,
that wee titled Pirst National Bank. A continuation of the
veview revealed the bank at Lovell titled Western National: Bank.

On May 3, 1974, MARY ALLERHTLIGEN, Loan Officer,
Shoshone First National Bank of Cody, 1291 Sheridan Avenue,
advised that siad bank woevld not possess any safety deposit
boxes that would have a number 745-18 or any thing similar.
He further stated upon reviewing employment records for the
iast two years said bank has not had an employee using the
name of ACREMA. In addition ALLERHILIGEN advised upon reviewing |
a list of holders of safety deposit boxes that none of them” | _ et
had the name SHAL ERIC RIVERS or WILLIAM MARCUS RAY. }

: On May $9, 1974, WAYNE MESSENGER , President, First

State Bank, 1130 Sheridan, the only other bank in Cody, Wyoming,
advised the bank would not have a safety deposit nwaber 745-18.
He further stated a review of employee records and holders of .
safety deposit boxes failed to reveal an employee by the ‘
nane of ACREMA or a safety deposit box holder by the name
of SHAL SRIC RIVERS or WILLIAM MARCUS RAY. ~

MAY 24 4

Fal - MINNEAPOLIS |

dk

iNW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 147
gt =



he
&
¢

SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567) 5/20/74

SAC, DENVER (7-699) (P)

PINAP i aes
00: MP .

ReMPairtel to DN, 5/1/74.
Enclosed for Minneapolis are nine copies of an
«' investigative insert reflecting investigation conducted at
Cody, Wyoming.

LEADS:

DENVER DIVISION .

: AT. BIG ve BASIN, WYOMING: Will at the appropriate
‘banks in Big Horn/Sasin determine if they have had an employee
by the name of ACI REMA or any holder a safety deposit box

* ARMED AND DANGEROUS ; He

- Minneapolis (Enes.9) (RM)
2 - Denver - — -
wn ; pet 7 = Pha
«4) : : m7 241974
FBI—MINNEAPOLIS

ae
NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 148 ° :



: B/1/74
AIRTEL
03 SAC, DERVER (7~699} :
ROMs SAC, MENREAPOLIS (7-587) (P} 7

SUBIECT: PINAR
0: HINNEAPOLIS

Enclosed for each office are two copies of an
“FD802 veisting to an interview of LAWRENCE GEORGR MURPHY,

4 For the information of reesiving offiess, Mrs.
YERGINIA PIPER was abducted from her Orono, Minnegota,

5 ) Bemkdence on 7/27/72, by two masked guomen. Afters 2

: Yano payment of $2,000,000 had been unde, Med. BIGER
was found upharaecd in a wooded aren near Puluth, Minnesota, -
on ¢/28/72. : : mae

Insemuch as the iccaticn of CHARLES. WS in
Aisbema prior to his reported death is unknown, copies of
this commmicetion ere being directed te both /Bixsinghas
end iobile. 7

: Based on information contained in the enclased ~
Fle302, vecoiving offices are requested te conduct the
ieliaring investigation:

S = ponimghan (ioMa) (Eso, 9) cote ge
~ Bivminghas (f= . -
2 = Yobile (7-508) (Rae. 2) . q- SE 7- CELLS
C3b- Minneapolis 2

SOR sph

| } Wy

+ feirvans QO

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 149 *
L_

we



EB 7-587

ARERO AND DANGEROUS . ues

LESCS
BIRNIRGHAN AND HOBIEE

1. WT through indices chesks and comtact with
logical investigative agencies davelos backgretud information
on CHARLES GAULT and thereafter determine his whereabouts
during the peried 7/27~20/72, and his possible involyenent
an PIHAP.

ar 2 Will attempt to secure a photograph of CHARLES
GAULT and forvard same to the Minneapolis Office,

DENVER
BE, CODY, WYONTHG

WA1I at the First Wortern Rational Bank, or any benk
heaving the initials FUN, determine if they have an eaployoe
by the name of ACRTHA and whether any individuel using the
mame SHAL EAIC RIVERS ox WILLIAM MARCUS RAY rented a safe
deposit box #745+13.-

welben
we.

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 150 °



~ BF lier-0) @ .
- we \e ae

aw FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

; Ans bate of ronscipion ay , 2974

LAWRENCE GHORGE MURURY, 1530 South Sixth Street,
partment C965, telephone nyaber 338-6892, advised as
olLlows: if

: He was recently released from the Minnesota State
Prison (M8SP}, Stillwater, Winnesota, after having served twa
yearg of 2 five-year sentence on an assault charge. In
appyoximately April, 1973, while working in the prison
hospital, he was instrwaental in getting WiLLIAH MARCUS

iY, & convicted murderer, assigned to work in the hospital.

/2EY, who he characterized as a compulsive liar and con-man,
was dealing heavily in narcotics at the prison and alienated
numerous inmates through his shady activities, it reached

ae the point where RBAY's Life was in jeopardy and because of
this, he was recently transferred to the Minnesota State
Reformatory -(H8R), St. Cloud, Minnesota, where he was placed
in "segregation."

HURPEY said that while incarcerated at MSP, he
» weceived a $14,000 inheritance from his father, and RAY
talked him into loaning him $1,500, which was never repaid.
WURPHY advised he was naive regarding prison life and inmates
and was “taken in’ by RAY to the extent where RAY owes him
a total of approximately $5,000 to $6,000.

‘ NURPRY said that although RAYts eredibility is highly
questionable, he was furnishing the following information for
Whatever action the Bureau deemed appropriate:

in what ne reealied te be April, 1973, RAY
approached him in the prison hospital and exhibited to him
& package he claimed to have been personally delivered to
him at the prison by an unknown woman whe originally received
the package through the mail, RAY opened the packege in his
presence and exhibited to him a $2 bili and an oid pocket
watch, The $2 biid had very fine printing in the corners
which bore the notations, “CODY, WYO; 1,457,193; JNVN;
B 745-18, S-ACREMA; SHAE, ERIC RIVERS.“ ‘The inside watch
cover bore similar notations, but less extensive. After :
committing the notations to memory, RAY burned the $2 bill THe

4/29/74 .jimneapolis, Minnesota _,,,, MP 7-867 ~ / S4/ 7

Interviewed on,

BA PAUL J. NEUMANN/p1

by,

. : Tara
This document contoins neither rqgommendations nor conclusions of the FBI, It is the propprty of the FBIond is Gohed't} your oggney:
it ond its contents are not to be "distributed outside your agency. : .

NW 55193 Docld:329§9775 Page 151 ° FBI « vin

NEAPOLIS |



HD 7~567 7 re
=Be : : :

in front of him, To his knowledge, RAY still possesses the
watehs.

. RAY explained that he had been personaliy involved
in the PIPER kidnapping, that he was afforded a polygraph
examination and passed inasmuch as he knew how to beat the
examination, RAY claimed that in August, 1972, he traveled
to Cody, Wyoming with BONNIE. ,PETERSON, a former girl friend
ivom Duluth, Minnesota (possibly’ BONNIE JOHNSON, who clained
RAY gave ber a safe deposit key #34), The afove-mentioned
pv ==. notations, as best as he could recall Baya caplanation,
indicated that RAY, in August, 1972, rented safe deposit
box 745-18, under the name SHAL m ispia& from an employee --

| named ACEEUA at the First Western Natigphal Bank, Cody, Wyoming,
' and deposited $1,467,193, some of whith was PIPER ransom
money, in the box,

| RAY subsequently stated or implied that one CHARLES

| GAULT from somewhere in Alabama was involved with him in the
1075. kidnapping; that GAULT comaitted suicide in December,.
1973,

i : MURPHY further advised that RAY was on a three-day

. - pass from MSP about three weeks ago. While out of prison,
; he allegedly beat up some women,

we.

_NW 55193 _Doold:32989775 Page 152 7 ; pee ci



MP 7-567
PINs cac
ql)

RE: WILLIAM MARCUS RAY;
CHARLES GAULT

Investigation of the above was predicated
upon receipt of information that RAY claimed he was
involved in the PIPER kidnapping. RAY also stated or
implied that one CHARLES GAULT from somewhere in Alabama
was involved with him in the kidnapping; that GAULT
committed suicide in December, 1973.

The following investigation was conducted at
Birmingham, Alabama, by SA COLEMAN D. GEARY, IIIs

On Octcber 17, 1974, HOYN GAULT, 917 4th Court,

West, after being advised of the identity of the: inter~
viewing Agent and the purpose of this investigation,
advised that he picked up his son, CHARLES N. GAULT,
from the Federal Prison at Maxwell AFB, Alabama, on or
:about February 2, 1972, after he was placed’on parole. He
drove his son to Birmingham where he has been residing
ever since with his wife, Mrs. ELIZABETH GAULT, at 2341
Iaurel View Place, Rocky Ridge, Birmingham, Alabama. His
son has worked every day with him in the Auto Salvage and
Parts business. Practically every day they contact the Na-
tional Tire and Salvage Company located at 2900 North
2ist Avenue, Birmingham, and usually every day they
contact and sell parts té Bild Riissell Auto Parts, Iincor-
porated, located at 1423 First Avenue, Bessemer, His son

- is also active in little leage baseball and football since

‘ his return to Birmingham. in February, 1972. He has not

* made any trips outside the State of Alabama to his know~
ledge and from the period February, 1972, to February,
1973, he was under the supervision of Federal Probation
Officer E, A. DAVIS at Birmingham.

Sees
| = : 7?~Sé 7-206 BY
_Nw 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 153 7 i hs 7 7 7



- period July 27-29, 19720 7

- sand leading an exemplary life with his family and he has

}
_ in this case, he said that neither of them looked familiar }

_ 1973, ‘her husband, CHARLES, was under the Supervision of

LNW 55193 Doota: 32989775 Page 154 i

MP 7~567
PONicac i.
(2) A : 7 a

He said that his son has made trips to
Alabama, but to his knowledge, he has not been outside the
State of Alabama at any time and particularly during the \
: : ‘.
~~ °**** i's son is, as mentioned above, working hard

i

not been involved in any.type of criminal activity since |

his parole in February, 1972, : \
t
oY

After viewing an artist's sketch of the unsubs

to him and both of them were considerably older than his
son,

On October 28, 1974, Mrs. ELIZABETH GAULT, 2341
Laure] View Place (Rocky Ridge), was advised of the
identity of the Interviewing Agent and the purpose of this
investigation. Sh e stated that her husband has been
living at hime with her and her ten-year-old son since
his father, HOYS, brought him home from Maxwell AFB in
February, 1972, following his parole. He works every day
with his father in the Auto Sales business and spends
a great deal of time with his son in Little league activi~
ties. During the period February, 1972, until February,

the Federal Probation Office in Birmingham and he did not
make any trips outside the State of Alabama during this
period.

She said that her husband has not been engaged

in any type of ciminal activity since his parole. She
Said that he does not understand how anyone would accuse

ab



7

NW 55193 Docid:32989775 Page 155 :

MP 7-567
PUN: cac
(3)

him of being involved in a kidnaping, however, it is en-
tirely possible that someone who knew him while he was
in the Federal Prison at Texarkana, may have given his

. mame to the authorities. _ However, she said that it is
ridiculous to think that: her husband had anything to do
with the kidnaping. As mentioned above, her husband
was not away from home during the latter part of July,
1972, as he was busy with his work and little league —
baseball during this particular period of time.

On November 15, 1974, JOHN W. MC INTOSH, Federal

Probation Office; Birmingham, Alabama, advised from his

7 ‘ records on CHARLES NEWMAN GAULT that GAULT's registered
number was 17723149, and he was released on parole on
February 2, 1972, to return to his home at 2341 Laurel
View Place, Birmingham, at Maxwell AFB, Alabama. He :
was under supervision fir a year from February 2, 1972
until February 2, 1973, at which time he was released
from parole.

During the year that he was on parole, he was
in contact on a.monthly basis with Parole Officers
E..A. DAVIS and RUFUS NIX and according to his file, he
contacted the Parole Office on July 31, 1972.

At no time did he travel outside the State of
Alabama during this period of time and his record was
i excellent as he worked regularly with his father in the
*  Anto Salvage business and was still working in this capacity

at thé time he was released from parole on February 2, 1973..

There was nothing unfavorable in his file and
J okid Ris. knowledge, hé did not engage in any type of
ciminal activity while he was on parole.

ee



0-302 (REV. 11-27-70) 7 aN,
aaseuuer oe oe
. : Pees

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

‘ : Date of tronscription, 5/24/73

RE: . WILLIAM MARCUS RAY

WILLIAM MARCUS RAY was interviewed at the Minnesota
State Prison, Stillwater, Minnesota, by SAs KENNETH J, ANDREWS
and FRANCIS R. GRADY, relative to the Piper kidnaping case.

. RAY advised that he had been in telephonic contact
with SA ARTHUR J. SULLIVAN and requested that Mr. SULLIVAN
contact him. Subsequently SA ARTHUR J. SULLIVAN joined in
the interview. Gusues

RAY said that he was serving a 40 year term for second
degree murder and was under contract with the State of Minnesota
7 wherein he has agreed to take certain courses and upon satisfac-
torily completing these courses he would be eligible for parole
in 32 months.

He also said that he was not involved in the kidnaping
of Mrs. VIRGINIA PIPER as was evidenced by two pokgraph tests
that. he had taken.

The reason RAY desired to talk to Bureau ageris wa
because of the following alleged facts related by RAY: :

RAY said he was suffering from a serious sinus condition
and was scheduled for an operation at the University of Minnesota
Hospital on the morning of May 18, 1973. The operation was to
be performed by Dr. WILLIAM MEYERHOFF. At 8230 a.m. on May 17,

1973, RAY was taken to the University Hospital by prison guard
JAMES SAMPLE, arriving at approximately 9:15 a.m. on the same

date. His stay at the hospital was uneventful until about 7:00 a.m.

on May 18, 1973.

At this time he alleged that he received a phone call.
The caller said, "Is this MARCUS RAY?" RAY answered, "Yes." The
caller said, "We're willing to pay you $100,000 to take the rap."
“If you don't take it we'll kill youlefore you leave the hospital."
RAY said at first he thought this was a prank and hung up without
saying anything further. Shortly after the call he was given a
sedative in preparation for his operation, and wheeled into the
operating room.” He was accompanied into the operating room by

Interviewed on,

5/24/73 « Stillwater, Minnesota tite ¢ MP 7-567 -/ 370 P

of.
SA KENNETH J. ANDREWS, SA ARTHUR J.
SULLIVAN & SA FRANCIS R, GRADY/FRGinjt

ih cana f
This document cdnlains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI, Il Is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

H ond Ws contents are not to be; disiribuled ovlside your agency. 7 peau

5/24/73

Dale dictated.

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 156



MP 7-567

the prison guard SAMPLE. In the operating room was a nurse

and the anesthetist. He said prior to being put to sleep for
the operation he noticed the door leading to the operating room
was opened. The person opening the door was dressed in a
business suit .and he recognized this individual as a person he
had seen onseveral occasions in the Black Bear Lounge of the
Hotel Duluth, in Duluth, Minnesota. He said this person merely
smiled at him and closed the door, whereupon he, RAY, sat up

on the operating table and refused to take the anesthetic, after
which he demanded to be returned to Stillwater State Prison.

RAY said that he felt the individual he saw was going
to do him bodily harm. He also stated that his fellow inmates
«' were taking bets that he would never return to the prison.

Relative to the individual RAY saw at the door, he
explained that the first time he saw this individual was at the
Black Bear Lounge on or about July 5 or 6, 1972. He recalls
this date because it was the birthday of GENO PALUCCI. RAY
» said he was drinking at a table and the individual he saw in
the operating room joined him at the table, along with two
females. Prior to leaving the lounge, RAY paid for the tab
and went to his room. RAY could not recall the name of any
of the individuals and could not describe the females. He;
described the individual he saw at the hospital as follows:

Sex Male

Race : White :
« Age 35-40 . Pee

Height , “5'10" - 11" :

Build Havy - with "beer belly"

Weight 195 pounds

Hair Sandy - combed back

Complexion Tanned

Eyes Color unknown ~ no glasses

Dress Business suit

RAY stated that he was of the opinion that this indi-
vidual was staying at the Holiday Inn Motel in Duluth, Minnesota..
He described the second individual as follows:

Race White ys

Sex Male

Age Approximately 30

Height 5'g"

Weight ~~ 195 pounds ,o
7 2

abe. iarach cant x

NW 55193 DoclId:32989775 Page 157



YR 7-567

Build
Complexion
Dress

Heavy, muscular
Dark, needed shave
Business suit

RAY requested the interviewing Agents to contact
Dr. MEYERHOFF for the purpose of setting up a date for RAY's
operation. He said if this were done, the hospital could be
planted by Agents and then when the unknown individual again
appears he could be arrested by the Agents.

RAY stated that when he was in the hospital he was
in Section 49, Room 428, and he was guarded by Guard SAMPLE
in the daytime and McDONOUGH at night.

vb

NW 55193 DoclId:32989775 Page 158



MAY 1902 EDITION
GSA FRM (4 CFR) 101-116

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

Otte SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567) (P) pate: 5/25/73

ees A é

FROM SA FRANCIS R. GRADY

SUBJECT: PINAP
RE: WILLIAM MARCUS

It is to be noted that U.S. Marshal HARRY D. BERGLAND
has been contacting MICKY McGLYNN, an inmate at the Minnesota
State Prison, Stillwater, Minnesota. McGLYNN furnished informa-
tion to BERGLUND indicating that RAY had pertinent eral ea

ann concerning the PIPER kidnaping.

On May 23, 19735, RAY telephonically contacted the
Minneapolis Office and talked with SA ARTHUR J. SULLIVAN. He
requested that SULLIVAN contact him because he had a matter
that he wanted to discuss with Agent SULLIVAN.

It is further to be noted that extensive investigation
has been conducted concerning MARCUS RAY. He has been afforded
a polygraph examination on two occasions and it was the opinion
of the polygraph operator on these occasons that RAY did not
participate in the kidnaping and had no information concerning
it. Investigation previously conducted also "indicates that
RAY is possibly a pathological liar and in view of these
facts, it is recommended that no iarthiibat investigation be

. conducted, :

5

77 SOPH Lae,

SCARCHED___/ “INDEXED __-
SERIALIZED, a FILED.

MAY 25 1973

FBI—MINNEAPOUS |

~- Minneapolis
oe mgt .
Y ©) part ia

ay uae 7 >



NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 160° SeEDEEES a

MP 7-567 ial

PIN:pi
RE: WILLIAM MARCUS. A

-1-
“CHARLES _NEVWMAN GAULT

Se

vo

Investigation of the above was initiated upon
receipt of information that RAY stated or implied that
one CHARLES GAULT from somewhere in Alabama was involved
with him in the PIPER kidnaping; that GAULT comititted
suicide in December, 1973,

The Mobile Office by. “communication dated
July 11, 1974, stated that BARBARA GROSS, Federal Prison
Camp, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, advised on July 8,
1974, that CHARLES NEWMAN GAULT was paroled on February 2,
3974; that records concerning him were forwarded to East
Point, Georgia.

On July 23, 1974, Mrs. NADINE WELCHEL, Federal
Records Center, General Services Administration (GSA),
East Point, Georgia, made available to Special Clerk MARION
W, DAVES for review prison record of CHARLES NEWMAN GAULT,
EBI #515 251 F, The records reflect that GAULT was received
at Texarkana, Arkansas, Federal Correctional Institute on
March 8, 1970, to serve three years for National Motor
Vehicle Theft Act. He was released by court order on
May 19, 1970, his sentence set aside, and on May 22, 1970,
was xvesentenced to 4 three-year term to be served in the
Alabama Penal System. On March 1, 1971, he was received

“from Alabama Penal System and his mandatory release date

wes set at May 26, “1972.

GAULT was released (on. probation) from Federal
Prison Camp, Maxwell Air Force Base, Abboma, at 8:00 a.m,
on February 2, 1972, and transported via private car to
2341 Laurel View Place, Birmingham, Alabama.

GAULT is described as a white male, date of

R birth October 30, 1938. His place of birth was listed

as Lamar County, Alabama.

The file veflected that GAULT was a Minimum Custody ~
inmate, He was assigned to work release program where cn ‘i
November 15, 1971, he worked at Heliy Auto Parts, Montgomery,
Alabama. Bis supervisor was Mrs. KELLY and RY YARBROUGH,

* Scie:

i PSC? -“/? re



MP 7~567 : : '
PIN: pi
“Qe ,

His working hours were 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., five days

“ a week and Saturdays until noon, On October 21, 1971, he
worked for Billups Service Station, Air Base Boulevard,
His supervisor was Mr, TAYLOR,

GAULT, from 1959~1966, was self-employed and his
business was called "Rebuilders Supply Company," involving
buying and selling auto parts. Yor six months.during 1964,
he was in the used car business,

an

NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page 161 ° : i = :


FRG szjt
RE: RICHARD INO

“Date of Bifth °
April 24/1946 ,

At approximately 9:30 PM on September 26, 1973,
OCCHINO telephonically contacted the Minneapolis Office fron
Duluth, Minnesota, He advised SA FRANCIS R.- GRADY that he had
gome positive information concerning the PIPER kidnaping that he
would not discuss on the phone. He said that if an Agent contacted
him at his mother's home at 10:50 PM, he would furnish them the
information. Efforts to ascertain the information OCCHINO possessed
was negative and he was advised that an agent would meet him at
10:30 PM at his mother's heme, 509 North 2nd Avenue East, Duluth,
Minnesota, phone 722-0395,

peeesse! In view of the fact that Agents BILL RB, BENTLEY and
ROBERT E. WALLCN were out of town on official business, SA CLIFFORD
HUBTA of the Superior Resident Agency was telephonically

centacted by SA FRANCIS R, GRADY and requested to check the

Duluth ‘Police Department on OCCHINO and interview him,- SA RUHTA
was requested to advise SA GRADY the results of the interview,

At approximately 11:45 PM, SA HUBTA telephonically

contacted SA GRADY advising that OCCHINO is well known to the
“Duluth Police Department, and that he had been confined to St, Pete

Mental Hospital, St. Petes, Minnesota. He also has a history of

assaults and disordedy conduct. He-was in jail in Duluth at the

same time as WILLIAM MARCUS RAY, FBI # 730 258 C, RAY was the name

of the individual GCCHING fugnished as being involved in the

PIPIR. kidnaping,

Ii is to be noted that WILLIAM MARCUS RAY is presently
serving time in Stillwater State Prison on a murder charge in
‘Duluth.

Extensive investigation. was conducted relative to RAY
with negative results,

ik.

Docld: 32989775 Pak 162”



Saeaai pees + 7 7 seems

-, :
FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64) 7 @ nauee @

+ +

‘FBI
1 Date: 5/10/76

Transmit the following in

(Type tn plaintest or code)

Via AIRTEL AIRMAIL, REGISTERED

abs Spagsbed inaHepsengnsssgeeaiseqctnand

(Priority)

TO: SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (7-567)
FROM: SAC, DENVER (7-699)(RUC)
SUBJECT; PINAP aie

00: MINNEAPOLIS * ,

" Re Denver telcall to SA PAUL J. NEUMANN, Minneapolis
Division, on 5/7/76. .

Attached for Minneapolis is an FD-302 interview of
GEORGE LOUIS LESLIE, which is self-explanatory.

‘* : SA NEUMANN stated that GEORGE LESLIE is known to the
Minneapolis Office and at one time he was being considered for
development as a PCI. Any information furnished by him should

i be dealt with circumspect. NEUMANN also stated that MIKE GLENNON,

"BARRY LEIBERMAN and MARCUS RAY are also known to the Minneapolis

\ Division and MARCUS RAY has been eliminated as, a suspect in the

\ PINAP kidnaping.

No further investigation is being conducted by the
Denver Division unless later requested by the Minneapolis office.

sts A :
Lind Sleaaraal iMate

rytanc? Grd

<P- Minneapolis (Encs. 9)(AM, RM)

1 - Denver SGARCHED.___ INDEXED

ERALIZED . “St x
SERIALIZED 5p FILED ey

FMV/ep
(3) MAY.13 1976
a 2S), |
(eter

ia Sent : M: Per

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1969 0 - 246-080 (11)

Approved:
NW_55193__Docla: 3SsestubsAgpatyén mrge



NW 55193 DocId:32989775 Page i164

JBD{302 Rev. 11-27-70) @ @

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date of tronseription__ May 10, 1976

GEORGE LOUIS LESLIE was interviewed at the
Arapahce County Jail at his request, stating that he
had some information regarding the kidnap of VIRGINIA
PIPER.

LESLIE stated that he was born October 4, 1950,
St. Paul, Minnesota, and he was arrested on February 8,
1976, for Simple Robbery and Burglary, however, his lawyer,
MIKE STERN, Denver, Colorado, has filed’a motion for insanity
and LESLIE is to appear before the Arapahoe County Court on
August 9, 1976. He stated that he was offered the sentence
‘of one to ten years if he pied guilty, otherwise he faces
up to 40 years. :

iam LESLIE stated that he feels if he tells the FBI
‘ regarding the kidnaping of PIPER, that this may be taken
into consideration during his sentencing.

LESLIE was advised that the FBI can make no
,promises regarding his sentencing by the local authorities.

LESLIE stated that in 1964 he met an individual
by the name of MIKE GLENNON when they were incarcerated together
at the Diagnostic and Research Center, a juvenile institi
located outside of St. Paul, Minnesota. He stated that
and he have been as close as brothers since that time.
GLENNON now lives in either St. Paul or St. Cloud, Minnesota,
address unknown.

mn
NON

LESLIE said he had previously been interviewed by
either an FBI Agent or an Agent from the Crime Bureau of
Minnesota in 1972, either in the Ramsey County Jail or the
Washington County Jail. This interview was in regards to
the PIPER kidnaping, however, LESLIE said that he would
not furnish any imformation to this Age said that
GLENNON has been interviewed on several occasions by the
FBI regarding the kidnaping.

LESLIE said that since the kidnaping of PIPER, he
always felt that GLENNON was involved in some way and he last

5/6/76 Littleton, Colorado

eer
Interviewed on ot Fite # _DN_77699 a

Dete dictoted

_ SA FREDERICK M. VOLZ/ep 5/7/76
by = —

nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
‘buted outside your agency.

This docunent contains neithes recominendnt
your agency; if. and its content are not to be di



DN 7-699 : i
(2)

saw GLENNON in June, 1975, when they were both incarcerated
in a State reformatory at St. Cloud, Minnesota. It was at
this time that GLENNON mentioned that he was involved in
the PIPER kidnaping and that he received $250,000.00 in
$20.00 bills as a payoff but said that the money was too
hot to use since some of the money had turned up at the
Rosedale Shopping Center, St. Paul, Minnesota, and other
places in the St. Paul area.

According to GLENNON, three other individuals
were involved in the kidnaping besides himself and LESLIE
‘recalls that GLENNON mentioned that one of these individuals,
name unknown, was found dead in a snow bank in Burnsville,
Minnesota; one was in prison and the third individual

¥' Was unknown. GLENNON believes that the one in prison is’

BARRY LEIBERMAN (phonetic), who is currently in the
Minnesota State Penitentiary at Stillwater, Minnesota,
where he‘is serving a 40-year to life sentence.

GLENNON mentioned to LESLIE that his $250,600.60
‘is buried at a cabin in northern Minnesota. LESLIE could
furnish no further information regarding the cabin or its °
location. :

LESLIE stated that an individual called MALABAMA"
is MARCUS RAY, current’ location unknown, who is described
as age 35 to 40, 5'8" to 5'9", 180 to 190 pounds, chunky
build, has mustache, sandy or brown hair, has a southern
accent and is a "boozer".

LESLIE described GLENNON as age 25 to 30, 6',
220 pounds, muscular build, Italian extraction, black, curly
hair, to his shoulders, brown eyes; has tattoos (location
and type unknown).

BARRY LEIBERMAN is described as age 40, 6'5" to
6*6", 250 pounds, large build, brown hair, balding.

LESLIE stated that the only reason he is telling the
FBI this is that it may help in the sentencing, even though
he may be putting himself in the position of physical harm.
He is willing to test to the above. ESLIE also said
he believes he could find the imuney of GLENNON that is buried
through GLENNON's father, VERN BCNNAMAN (phonetic), from St.
Paul, who is a known burglar that now lives outside of Madison,
Wisconsin. He said he also may be able te determine fur
information through GLENNON’s uncle, VENI (phonetic) (Ll:
Unknown), who owns or runs a trucking company in Madison,
Wisconsin, | S :

ah aes nee .
NW 55193 Docld:32989775 Page 165 * : .

