# docid-32291542-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/20/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10207-10318

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 166-4355-158

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, SF

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

'PAGES:

PAOTS: 05/28/1976

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTONS: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

21

---

## Page 2

‹Assoc. Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm...

FEDERAL BUREAU UF INVESIA IDI

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Dep-A.D.- Inv..

Asst. Dir.:

Adi. Serv.

Fixt. Affnira

SF NR 141

MAY 2-8 1976

PE

Fin. & Pers

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inapection

Intell.

NR 026 SF CODE

Laboratory

/8:25 PM NIFEL

Toral Coun

MAY 28, 1976,

Fian. & Eval.

MJE

TO:

DIRECTOR,

• FBI

Ining

Telephone/

BOSTON (92-1132)

FROM:

SAN FRANCISCO (92-35 1) (P)

SATA

RAYMOND L. S.

PATRIARCAS ET ALI ITAR - GAMBLING O0J

RE BUREAU TELETYPE TO SAN FRANCI

SCO MAY 269 19.76.

ON MAY 27, AND MAY. 28, 1976, SAS JOHN CONNOLLY, DENNIS MA

CONDON, BOSTON OFFICE, AND SAS LEROY MO TETSWORTH AND CHARLES

NO HINER, SAN FRANCISCO, CONDUCTED EXTENSIVE INTERVIEWS WITH

THEODORE JAMES SHARLISS, (FORMER SF 2661-C-TD.

ON MAY 27, 1976, SHARLISS WAS APPRISED BY. BOSTON

AGENTS OF INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION RECEIVED AT BOSTON THAT

the

HE WAS GOING TO BE ELIMINATED BECAUSE OF HIS INVOLVEMENT

IN THE MURDER OF JOSEPH BARBOZA BARON AT

• 6

ON FEBRUARY 11, 1976, AND BECAUSE IRE ORGANIZAPION

PEOPLE

FELT THAT HE WOULD "OPEN UP"• SHARLISS INITIALLY DENIED

4355=158

ANY INVOLVEMENT OR KNOWLEDGE CONCERNING THE MURDER.

ON MAY 28, 1976, SHARLISS ADMITTED THAT DURING

NOVEMBER, 1975, HE FURNISHED TO LON FIGURE JOSEPH RUSSO

OF BOSTON INFORMATIOU AS FO SHARLISS'S ADDRESS AT SAN

7. JUN 3 1976

CRYPT

wis

56.8301 '1

-300

55 JUN 2 " 1976'

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

SF 92-351.

FRANCISCO AND THAI BARON WAS VISITING WITH HIM ON A DAILY

BASIS. HE ADMITIED SUBSEQUENI THERETO HE WAS IN

IELEPHONIC CONTACI WITH RUSSO ON OTHER MATTERS, INCLUDING

CONTACIS A DAY OR TWO PRIOR. TO THE MURDER ON PRACTICALLY

EACH CONTACT RUSSO INQUIRED AS TO WHETHER OR NOT BARON

WAS STILL IN THE AREA AND MAINTAINING CONTACT WITH SHARLISS.

HE STATED THAT HE ALWAYS ADVISED RUSSO THAI HE WAS.

SHARLISS EMPHATICALLY DENIED ANY INVOLVEMENT IN THE

MURDER OF BARON OTHER THAN THE FACT THAT HE FURNISHED

RUSSO THE WHEREABOUTS OF BARON. HE ADMITTED THAT BY

FURNISHING THIS INFORMATION TO RUSSO HE HAD "GIVEN BARON

UP"• SHARLISS STATED THAT HE BELIEVES RUSSO WAS RESPONSIBLE

FOR BARON'S MURDER, HOWEVER. DENIED KNOWING WHO HANDLED

THE HIT. HE DENIED RECEIVING ANY MONEY, CONSIDERATION, OR

FAVORS.

FOLLOWING TERMINATION OF INTERVIEW ON MAY 28, 1976,

SHARLISS ADMITTED TO SA HINER THAT HE WAS IMPRESSED

WITH THE FACI THAT THE BUREAU IMMEDIATELY INFORMED HIM

---

## Page 4

PAGE THREE

SF 92-351

REGARDING A HIT CONTRACT OUT ON HIM, AND THAT THE PERSONAL

PRESENTATION BY BOSTON AGENTS CONVINCED HIM HE SHOULD

ADMIT HIS INVOLVEMENT AS STATED.

FOR INFORMATION SAC BOSTON THE PROFESSIONAL CONDUCI,

EXPERTISE, AND OVERALL KNOWLEDGE OF ORGANIZED CRIME

MATTERS BY SAS CONDON AND CONNOLLY WAS OBVIOUSLY OF

PARAMOUNT IMPORTANCE IN CONVINCING SHARLISS TO DISCLOSE

HIS ROLE IN THIS MAITER.

INFORMATION FURNISHED BY SHARLISS WILL BE DISCUSSED

WITH. SAN FRANCISCO AND BOSTON SIRIKE FORCE ATTORNEY'S AND

EVALUATED IN VIEW OF POSSIBLE PRESENTATION TO FEDERAL

GRAND JURY AT SAN FRANCISCO AND/ OR BOSTON.

•BOSTON AGENTS: WILL DEPART SAN FRANCISCO MAY 29, 1976.

BUREAU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED.

END.

---

