AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

_ DATE:
*PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

5/14/201

“Agency Information

FBI
124-10216-10237

HQ

92-6054-129

Document Information

FBI
NOLAN, WILLIAM JOHN
DIRECTOR, FBI

12/21/1962
22

LCN, ASSOC, EXTORTION, RACK ACT, CONSPR,
BOOKMAKING

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

05/21/1998

INDEFINITE i

vol
DocId:32295961 Page 1



REPORTING OFFICE, OFFICE OF ORIGIN INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

.__LOS ANGELES NEW YORK 5/28 - 12/18/62
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY TYPED BY
WILLIAM JOHN. NOLAN (its
THE CRIMINAL "COMMISSION" biinaetalaiahcedicaae :
LOS ANGELES DIVISION AR - CONSPIRACY
ce
REFERENCES: Report of SA WILLIAM JOHN NOLAN dated 5/25/62
at Los Angeles,
Report of SA JAMES P, FLYNN dated 6/29/62
at New York,
\ New Yorlt airtel to Bureau dated 11/13/62.
\o a
" ENCLOSURES:
TO BUREAU
Two (2) copies of letterhead memorandum reflecting
- characterization of informants.
TO NEW YORK
Two (2) copies of letterhead memorandum reflecting
eharacterization of informants.
arenaveo SEG AGENT 7

IN CHARGE DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW.

COPIES MADI

3 - Bureau (Encts-2)
2 - New York (92-2200) (Encls,; 2)
3 - Los Angeles (92-1112)

/

eo Dy Sete i

Dissemination Record of AMached Report.

Agency aN

Request Recd.

en a
Tag i

Docld:32295961 Page 2


LA 92-1112 : \

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The Los Angeles Division in its efforts to penetrate
into the Italian underworld has, since the submission of the. last
report, developed a live source, LA 4412-C-TE, who has now
maneuvered himself into a position where he is in daily contact
: with SALVATORE LOUIS PISCOPO. As aresult of this activity, the
/ Los Angeles Division has now beer able to ascertain that ‘PISCOPO, ~~
who is: intimately assoéiated with NICK GUST SIMPONIS, a Greek
‘gambler inthe Los Angeles area, evidently is a member,of a pa
New York family though he himself has been’ in the Los Angeles area
for a period of some-20 years having been brought/here by JOHNNY. .
ROSSELLI to participate with ROSSELLI and WILLI IOFF in the @ # é. ‘fe
old theatrical union wherein ROSSELLI and BIOFF és re convicted ~~
for shaking down the movie industry. Le: A
M ke (eet

On 11/30/62, PISCOPO departed the-Gos# Meelés area
supposedly at the request of his boss in New York id this infor-
mant mentioned above was able to determine from PISCOPO that in
his New Yor trip the family which PISCOPO was a member of had a
new bess who waS young and who had succeeded an\dld and sick man.
The association of PISCOPO with MICHAEL ANTHO! PARIZZI-in the (fru Ire
Los Angeles area and RIZZI's contacts with the GABKLOS at New ——————
York and PISCOPO's statements of recent times that has received
orders not to have anything further to do with RIZZI would tend
to indicate that PISCOPO probably is a member of the PROFACI
group and he is possibly referring to SALVATOREYPROFACI when he

speaks of a new boss. :

«

: The Los Angeles Division is presently effécting a

. confidential source in connection with PISCOPO in its efforts to
further penetrate into the Italian underworld and the set up of
the various families,

There is no information available at this time that
would tend: to show any one individual as the head of a family in
this area such as has been reported by the New York Division in :
connection with their recent interviews of persons acimowledgeable ~
of tnese matters. The person best suited for this role seems

; -B- ae
COVER PAGE

DocId:32295961 Page 3


™.
vee

LA 92-1112 - 7

to. be that previously reported NICOLO MICATA upon whom can inten-

sified investigation 1s underway. er persons who are possibly 4)

involved in such operations are JO. SELLI also wy Subject We,

of an intensified investigation. 4 66 vie oe
& bhi é

No charts.are, being prepared as thére i not SSRIS
information available to accurately portray’ a family.set up in

a the Los Angeles area; however, as soon as information is developed
a-chart setting forth the entire family structure will be prepared.

INFORMANTS :

LA -‘B-1
SF 2430-c

LA T-2
LA 4119=¢

- LA TH3 :
LA 4264-¢ j

LA T-4
LA 4330-Pe

LA TH-5
LA 4412-C-TE

LA 7-6
PATTY NORTON, PCI

“LA T=7
LIZ ‘RENAY (per request)

LA T-8
SF 2354-¢

LA T-9
NY. 3104-c

LA -T-10
WILLIAM BERKLEY, PCI

: : -C-
” : .~ COVER PAGE

RK

Docld:32295961 Page 4



LA 92~1112
‘ LA T-11
LA 4155-c

LA T-12
NY 3454-c-TE

LA T-13
LA 44201-Pc

LEADS:

LOS ANGELES ‘
: AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA. Will continue efforts to
develop additional sources that will be able to furnish the
( set up of the family operation in the Los Angeles Division.
: All agent personnel engaged in the Criminal Intell-
igence Program have been alerted to this-problem and are con-

stantly on the lookout for information and sources in this
connection. :

7 : -D*-
ie . ‘ COVER PAGE

KN

Docld:32295961 Page 5

