AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
* PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :

_ CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1
Docld:32289174 Page 1

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-10200-10450

HQ

92-6054-293

Date:

Oo rrr

5/14/201

Document Information

FBI
THOMPSON, RICHARD C.
DIRECTOR, FBI

06/06/1963
21

LCN, CONSPR, CRIMINAL ACT, MEMBERSHIP, LEADERSHIP,
GAMBLING ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT °
Unclassified :

4

Redact

05/22/1998

INDEFINITE

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2



FD=263 (ctev. 5-1-*9) CO ‘é

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE ‘OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
WAUKEE NEW WORK 6/6/63 12/7/62 - 5/25/63
TITLE OF CASI REPORT MADE BY ‘TYPED BY
: SA RICHARD C, THOMPSON imp
"CHANGED" CHARACTER OF CASE

‘LA CAUSA NOSTRA
MILWAUKEE DIVISION

AR - CONSPIRACY

The title is marked changed to reflect the new title as
/ "La Causa Nostra" rather than "The*Criminal Comaission,"
REFERENCES
Report of SA JOHN A, HOLTZMAN at Milwaukee dated 12/14/62,
New York airtel to Bureau 5/1/63,
Milwaukee airtel to Bureau 5/31/63,

-P-

i ENCLOSURES

\ fo the Bureau: 2 copies of letterhead memoranda characterizing
informants, Pay

ia To New York: 1 copy of same.

fi
APPROVED Was SPECIAL AGENT DO'NOT WRITE|IN SPACES BELOW. =
cories MADE: ay [ U oy ?
‘3 - Bureau (9256054) (Ene. 2) TA 605 =
1 = Chicago (92-1173)
1 - Kansas City (92-935 ;
2 = New York (92-2330) (Enc. 1) eee
2 - Milwaukee 92-262) aay
ENT DidsewinaTion RECORD OF ATTACHED RapORE HORSES & =
rn a 4 eer
i REQUEST RECO oe We a
toe \ ey Verse
Was _COVER PAGE

toarea2t

Docld:32289174 Page 2


MI 92-262

MILWAUKEE DIVISION

At Mylwaukee, Wisconsin:

1. Will fully identify the members of the BALISTRIERI outfit
as set forth under the section of this report entitled
"Membership," opposite whose names an identifying number
does not appear,

2. Will continue effotts to determine the existence of member-
ship and activities of La Causa Nostra in the Milwaukee
Division and to find out whether it-is identical with the
composition of "the outfit" of FRANK PETER BALISTRIERI;
will determine what connections the. latter group. has with
La Causa Nostra in other areas, .

INFORMA:

MI T+-1 4s MI 602-C who was contacted by SA JOHN H. GASSAWAY.

MI T-2 1s JAMES WIEGHART, PCI, contacted by SA RICHARD C,
7 THOMPSON, | _ i ;

MI 1-3 is MI 602-C who 1s given two designations to assist in
: protecting his identity.

MI T-4 1s BARNET? FRANKS, PCI, contacted by SA RICHARD C,
ae THOMPSON. a Bee

(MI 1-5 1s MI 623-PC, contacted by SA RICHARD C, THOMPSON,

MI T-6 is ANDREW CURRO, PCI, contacted by SA RICHARD C.
; THOMPSON, ; iineieenean ns

MI T-7 1s FRANK CICCHINI, PCI, contacted by SA WILLIAM J,
HIGGINS. ...* . pe asreettieet

of: Be
COVER . PAGE

Docld:32289174 Page 3
