JFK Assassination System Date: 4/10/201
Identification Form

SESS EEES SSS SESS SSSSS SESS SESS SESS SSS SSSESSSESS Ses cans snnnnsssssnnnnssnsusssssncnnssnsssssssscnnnnssnnesasSsnanaasaaasssssnaaaasssasssssinssenssasss0siqs02000=0#/0%0000000==0#/90000000000=s:/0000000eesss2sTt0000
Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10318-10020

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 62-116606-FOLDER 96
eee SS EEE SES epee eenranunnnsnuunescnusnensnnsnnssnssnensossnnnsnssnnssnsunnasnssnenssssnnssnssnessonescnssssnnsssssnnassssnnessssnnsosssshs qv tAniEGassnnGassnnoGassnnnSassnnESasannESGsOMCoHIanESoIsEnESotasiSSSHTIECaE
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: EVANS
TO: BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE: 07/02/1963
“PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS :
JFK
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT:
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified ~
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 12/30/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1 1
Docld:32311539 Page 1


O O

7/2/63

Mr. Trotte:
Tele. Room
Miss Holm:
Miss Gand:

MR. BELMONT:

With reference to my conversation with the Direct
last evening, concerning the ramifications arising out of
the Journal-American newspaper article, SAC Simon telephoned
from Los Angeles this afternoon and furnished the followii fq
information: LE

Los Angeles has recently developed a new potential
criminal informant by the name of Theres Cun del She;
claims to be a sister-in-law of the recently deceased motion
picture actor Dick Powell. Actually she is a high priced

>t prostitute. :

x
Cundall has a contact by the name of Kathy Bro » Who
in turn has dealings with a man by the name of Tretia ink,
We have no information as to the identities of either rown
or-Mink, and none has as yet been supplied by our new informant.
: She alleges, however, that in connection with West Coast trips,
Irving Mink is responsible for lining up two or three girls.
In connection with one trip the informant alleges she was
| selected as one of the girls, but had to cancel out because

she was in the hospital. Three girls are presented on each
occasion and one is selected. No money is passed at the time,
| but subsequently Mink pays the girl chosen $500. The in-
| formant named, as other girls haying been involved in the
past, Angie ‘Dickerson and Judy icCarthy.

Our informant is maintaining contact with Brown
and may be able to secure for us information which will

identify Brown and Mink, Vy

C. A. Evans
pig
CAE:CSH (4)
cc Mr. Belmont

Mr. DeLoach i
Mr. Evans

DocId:32311539 Page 2
