f

FEDER@L BUREAU OF IN@ESTIGATION

+f JReqgetine OFFICE OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE. INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
NEW- ORLEANS NEW‘ ORLEANS _4A./69 10/29/68-3/28/69
TITLE OF CASE ~ lg RERORT wane ov. Trei
‘
cartosQARCELLO, aka “SA JOHN C. MC CURNIN, 11 -8
. ; & CHARACTER OF CASE m
rar \
) AR
Wi-
¥ REFERENCE
Lt noe ;
LS New Orleans report of SA JOHN C. MC CURNIN, II,
3 11/25/68.
al
tea > O
aii -P- , i
oO
; INFORMANTS :

Identity of Source

NO T-3 is NG 1434-C-TE

Céntacting Agent

SA THOMAS L., COLARELLI;
SA JACK EVANS MEHL

SA REED W. JENSEN

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

TK} NONE

|ACQUIT-|

CASE HAS BEEN:

y : \NO T-9 is NO 1232-C-TE

“4

auto.| “Fé SAVINGS

coNvic. FINES

RECOVERIES

TALS

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR ]ves (JN
PENDING PROSECUTION

te:

[oven six wontms_ tyes ihe
APPROVED UY S ndenaee enna DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW
tes mane J
GQ pares fr. ona\(@M ) G2 ~ 2 7 3 — 3/
1 - USA, New Orleans ; t
1 - Departmental Attorney OWEN NEFF, : REC} 97

New Orleans

3 APR 14 1969

4 - Yackson

1 - Memphis (INFO) ——
2 - Mobile i

2 - Houston

10 - New Orleans (92-36)

, Disseminatiof Record of Attached Report “Notations :

Agency ef 00._AAG, Criminal] Division,

Request Recd. ; :
Date Fwd. Organized Crime and Rack eteering Syn:
How Fwd. Section, | Roo d Y

By + "

5
Baar. ae

pDocld:32577900 Page 1 ‘

~

COVER PAGE ere ab"


NO 92-36
SCM ~ sm,

INFORMAN'
Ide

NO

No

No
No
No

NO

NO

NO
NO
NO
NO

DocId:32577900 Page 2

J

ITS (CONTINUED) :

ntity of Source

T-18 is Detective JERRY
WILLIAMSON, Jefferson
Parish Sheriff's Office
(By Request)

T-20 is PCI CAROLYN KAY
MORRIS

T-21 is NO 1697-PC
T-27 is NO 1594-PC

T~28 is Detective ASHTON
CROSSEN, Jefferson Parish

Sheriff's Office Intelligence

(By Request)

T-29 is Captain FRED ROTH,
Jefferson Parish Sheriff's
Office Intelligence

(By Request)

T-36 is New Orleans Police
Department Detective
CHARLES PARKS (By Request)
T-38 is PCI JANICE GROSS
T-40 is Former NO 1715-PC
T-41 is NO 1561-PC

T-42 is NO 1499-C

B
COVER PAGE

Location of Information

SA JOHN C. MC CURNIN, II

SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.
SA JOHN C. MC CURNIN, JR.

SA TROY H. GIST

SA JOHN C. MC CURNIN, Il

SA JOHN C. MC CURNIN, It

SA JOHN C. MC CURNIN, II
SA JAMES W. SMITH
SA-THOMAS L. COLARELLI
SA JOHN C. MC CURNIN, II

SA TROY H. GIST


NO 92-36
SCM - smj

INFORMANTS (CONTINUED) :

Identity of Source

NO
No
NO
NO
NO

NO

NO

No

DocId: 32577900 : Page 3

T-43 is SA 775-C-TE

T-44 is NO 1712-PC

T-45 is NO 1635-R (PROB)

T-46 is NO 1435~C-TE

T-47 is DAVE LETTERAL,
Jefferson Parish Sheriff's
Office Intelligence

(By Request)

T-48 is Mr. BILL GREEN,
Manager, Bourbon Orleans
Hotel

1-49 is NO 1748-PC

T-50 is Officer BILL
BARFIELD, Long Beach,
California Police
Department Intelligence
T-5i is NO 1487-C

T-52 is NO 1734-PC

T-53 is Mr. HENRY THOELE,

Small, Business Administration
Employse wor

Cc
COVER PAGE

Location of Information

San Antonio Agent
SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.
SA NATHAN ©. BROWN

SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI

SA JOHN C. MC CURNIN, If

SA JAMES W. HARDISON
SA JAMES W. HARDISON

Los Angeles Agent
SA JAMES FRANCIS WRIGHT

SA JOHN C. MC CURNIN,
SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI

Ii;

SA JOHN C. MC CURNIN, II


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

i LEADS:

f HOUSTON

5 _-~ _ AT HOUSTON, TEXAS. 1) Will, report results of indices
check and credit check concerning BERNARD GERSZON.
7 j

2) Will maintain contact with HO 1293-PC concerning
subject. : 4 !

. 3) Will,.if feasible, interview PHILLIP YAMIN,
Pepperoni Pizza Village, and determine if he knows MARCELLO
and, if so, to what extent. t

\

\. JACKSON

AT BILOXI, MISSISSIPPI. Will check with established
sources at the Broadwater Beach Hotel re MARCELLO and his
relatives visiting this area of Mississippi.

‘AT GULFPORT MISSISSIPPI. 1) Will determine if an
individual by the name of GUISSIPPI or COSANDRA is known to
‘authorities of that area and if he is associated with MARCELLO.

. 2) If the identity of such an individual is
i established, will attempt to determine if. he has recently
been in Vicksburg, Mississippi for the purpose of establishing
prostitution and gambling.

: . “AD VICKSBURG, MISSISSIPPI, 1) Will.imterview BERNIE
| BIERMAN and C. W. CAPPAERT, Manager, Magnolia Manufacturing
Company, re their association with CARLOS MARCELLO, It being
noted that. BIERMAN listed as staying with JACK KENT in
adjoining room, Bourbon Orleans Hotel, “to CARLOS MARCELLO
and other New Orleans hoodlums over Mardi Gras period, \
2) Will interview JOHN M. KENT, Post Office Box 127,
re his association with MARCELLO. Determine if he owns
aircraft and if he has ever flown MARCELLO between New Orleans
4 . é
D
COVER PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 4 : anaes


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

and Mississippi. Determine if he is related to DICK KENT,
who formerly ran the Speakeasy Lounge, which was a gambling
casino located outside Lafayette, LouiSiana. ane

MOBILE

AT MOBILE, ALABAMA. -Will interview KENNETH O'DAY,
and determine if he is. acquainted with CARLOS MARCELLO. Will
determine if he received financial. help from MARCELLO when
purchasing Blue Lake Manor as President of Gulf Coast Technical
Institute for $21,000 ,000.00 at Pascagoula, Mississippi.

Mobile note that PCI WAYNE HOUSER, of unknown
reliability, advised MARCELLO, in the past, had made an
attempt to take over FHA housing. project in Pascagoula,
Mississippi.

NEW ORLEANS

AT BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA. Will do credit and
criminal inveStigation and obtain Dua and Bradstreet report

on Bagwell Neal Contractors.

AT COVINGTON, LOUISIANA. 1) Will conduct credit
and criminal investigation re LEON POIRIER, 408 East Thomas

Street.

2) Will review property records, St. Tammany
Parish, to determine if LEQN POIRIER or LUCILLE MICELI have
purchased.or sold property. in the parish.

AT DES ALLEMANDS, LOUISIANA. Will conduct credit

and criminal investigation re ROOSEVELT DUFRENE, Box 193.

AT DESTREHAN, LOUISIANA. Will conduct credit and
criminal investigation re HARRY 0. DOLSEN, General Manager,

Bunge Corporation.

_E
COVER™ PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 5


NO 92-36

JCM - smj-

j
i NO 1734-PC made available the following information
concerning real estate transactions involving MARCELLO and
corporations controlled by him.

This information contained in thé files “of MARCELLO
at his office at the Town and Country Motel, Airline Highway,
Metairie, Louisiana:

An agreement to purchase 1,785 acres of land,
St. Charles Parish, belonging to the Highway Land Company,
Inc.

An agreement to purchase Sections 4, 395° and 40: in
Jefferson Parish from the Highway Land Company , Ine. » dated
9/1/68; total purchase price for.land located in St. Charles
and Jefferson Parishes $1,000 ,000.00. : ee

a This agreement. “signed by JOSEPH C. MARCELLO, the
son of CARLOS. MARCELLO, President of Gems, Inc., which
is owned by MARCELLO.

Contact being maintained with NO 1734-PC re full
details of this purchase and particularly for what purpose
this land is to be used by MARCELLO. ae

i a

NO 1734-PC made available contracts of sales of A
lots lotated on Lapalco Boulevard, Jefferson Parish, which
’ reflect certain corporations, owned by MARCELLO, . have sold
the above lots located on Lapalco Boulevard to either
members of the MARCELLO family or close associates. t
Plot E-6
Vendor - Garnet Lands, .Inc.
212,585. ‘square. feet .
“Sale price =:$

‘and. Emérald’ Lan Inc. +

L
. , COVER “PAGE Cee

\DocId:32577900 Page 6 ° . 1


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

Plot E-2-A

Vendor - Garnet Lands, Inc. and Emerald Lands, Inc.

-105.,842 square feet

Price - $79,395.00, payable in three annual
installments beginning 3/21/69

Vendee - ERNEST BARRIOS, husband of JOYCELYN TRACEY;

Plot B-1 : ini
Vendor - Gem&,; Inc. ,;Garnet"Eands, Inc. and Sapphire
are Lands, Inc.

81,800 square feet

Price - $61,425.00, payable in three annual
installments beginning 8/18/68

Vendee - JOHN E. BURGA, divorced husband of BEVERLY
CLAIRE CARTER;

Plot E-5

Vendor - Garnet Lands, Inc. and Emerald Lands, Inc.

106,295 square feet

Price - $72,746.00, payable in three annual
installments beginning 3/1/69

Vendee - EDWARD E. CRUMPLER, husband of SARAH
SILVESTRI;

Plots D and E, Tract 9, Section C

Vendor - Sapphire Lands, Inc.

Price - $55,527.75

Vendee - SIMON SHLENKER, III and HERMAN E. FREITAG

NO 1734-PC made available the following information
concerning CARLOS MARCELLO afd his associates:

N
COVER PAGE

7 a \

Dperd:32577900 Page 7 : \


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

NO 1734-PC telephonically contacted agents late
evening of 11/21/68, requesting a recontact on early AM
of 11/22/68... Contact made, and NO 1734-PC advised that,
after considerable wrestling with his conscience during the
night, he had come to the conclusion that he would cooperate
without reservation. He stated he would do so only with
complete assurances that his identity would never be revealed
outside the Bureau. Thereafter, NO 1734-PC furnished the
following information:

CARLOS MARCELLO is extremely upset with PHILLIP
SMITH because MARCELLO's son, JOSEPH C. MARCELLO, is a possible
target of a Federal Grand Jury subpoena for having witnessed
the bill of sale between SMITH and CHARLES. EVANS, the latter
representing himself as LEONARD CUNNING, who was killed in
gangland fashion, in Kansas City on 10/1/68.

NO 1734-PC stated that MARCELLO has ordered PHILLIP
SMITH to sell:.off real estate investments which would |
normally be held for long term speculative investments
because MARCELLO is in dire need of ready cash. NO 1734-PC_
stated that PHILLIP SMITH has been associated with MARCELLO ~
since 1950 and,outside the immediate family, is the most
trusted confidant MARCELLO has, handling all his real estate
transactions and advising him on a daily basis regarding his
investments. .

NO 1734-PC stated that GIUSEPPE GAGLIANO (former
under boss in New Orleans) met with MARCELLO in his office
at the motel yesterday for unknown reason. NO 1734-PC
advised that FRANK GAGLIANO has approached MARCELLO for money
to purchase a home and was turned down by MARCELLO. NO 1734-PC
stated MARCELLO offered to lend GAGLIANO the $300 closing costs
but no more. 7

NO 1734-PC stated that an individual, known to him as
Dr. FRANK (RAGANO), attorney for SANTO TRAFFICANTE, was in town
approximately a month ago and met surreptitiously with MARCELLO

0
COVER PAGE

DocId: 32577900 Page 8


ae
Docld:32577900 Page 9

NO 92-36
JCM - smj

and other unknown individuals. Dr. FRANK stayed at the
Bourbon Orleans while in town. NO 1734-PC stated that
MARCELLO ordered him to send to Dr. FRANK on 11/21/68, a
package containing the complete deposition given by MARCELLO
to Life Magazine recently.

NO 1734-PC advised that the reason for the coolness
between JOSEPH PORETTO, suspected LCN member, and MARCELLO
is that PORETTO allowed a sewerage bill in excess of $10,000
to accumulate on the Town and Country Restaurant and Lounge,
which was billed to the motel. PORETTO refused payment of this
pill, and NO 1734-PC advised MARCELLO that, inasmuch as
PORETTO's lease option had expired, to put him on a month-to-
month rental basis, which was done. Therefore, PORETTO has
nothing to sell if he wants to get out of the restaurant,
except his fixtures and goodwill.

NO 1734-PC advised that CARLOS MARCELLO can read
words in English but has difficulty in putting phrases and_
sentences together and, therefore, relies entirely on PHILLIP
SMITH for direction and guidance. MARCELLO has recently
instructed SMITH to tutor JOE C. MARCELLO in the handling of
real estate matters, but JOE C. MARCELLO is not overly
intelligent and probably, in NO 1734-PC's opinion, will not
be able to grasp the intricacies of real estate transactions.

NO 1734-PC advised that JOE C. MARCELLO has PHILLIP
SMITH's telephone tapped, as well as JOE C. MARCELLO's wife's
telephone tapped. NO. 1734~PC advised that BILLY GAUTREAU,
former administrative assistant in the Jefferson Parish
Coroner's Office, was one of the individuals utilized by
MARCELLO to tap telephones. GAUTREAU was recently sentenced
to eighteen months in Angola for obtaining funds fraudulently
from the Coroner's Office.

NO 1734-PC advised that an individual known to him

“only as TEX, who is presently incarcerated in a prison in

Texas, was another individual utilized by MARCELLO to tap

Pp
COVER PAGE


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

phones. NO 1734-PC. advised.that JOE C. MARCELLO maintains

a locked cabinet in his office \where he stores tapes from the
taped conversations, and NO 1734- PC has heard PHILLIP SMITH's
voice on one of these tapes.

NO 1734-PC advised that, whenever CARLOS. MARCELLO
has to appear in court or any type of hearing,.he empties
the contents of his wallet and gives it to PHILLIP: SMITH to
place in an envelope until he returns.

NO 1734-PC advised that MARCELLO® is an ‘unscrupulous
and vicious-type individual. whenever he comes upon. information
which can be used to blackmail people for. his services. «He
advised that his (MARCELLO's) long-time secretary ,..DOROTHY
CROWDER, could be cited as a typical example, inasmuch as
MARCELLO holds the mortgage on her home and. the fact that she
needs money in order to support her sick” ‘mother.

NO 1734-PC advised that JIMMY. ARNONE, the night clerk
at the Town and Country for the past three ‘years, ‘and his
brother, JOE ARNONE,recently discharged fromthe military, and
now chauffeuring MARCELLO, are related to. MARCELLO on MARCELLO's
wife's side of the family.

NO 1734-PC advised that MARCELLO fora long time
has suspected a Source among his employees at the Town and -
Country, and NO 1734-PC has assisted. him in Setting traps to
reveal the identity of this source, :

> “NO 1734-PC advised that MARCELLO has many contacts
throughout the state and, therefore, NO 1734-PC.is extremely
concerned regarding his own identity as a source. NO 1734-PC
refused to go into specifics becauSe of the circumstances of
the contact and the limited time of the contact, but this will
be pursued with him. in the future among the numerous other
aspects of the MARCELLO operation. o ae ie

Q
COVER PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 10 /


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

NO 1734-PC was contacted 12/3/68, telephonically,
on 12/5/68, personally, and on 12/6/68, telephonically.

On 12/3/68, PC advised that CARLOS MARCELLO met
with GIUSEPPE GAGLIANO again and also with ANTHONY CAROLLO.
He advised that, because of the "heat" being placed on the
Town and Country Motel office complex, MARCELLO was taking
the precaution of leaving the area when someone came to talk
to him about ‘something important, and he did not wish law
enforcement to be aware of their presence.

He noted that, for example, when CAROLLO came to
meet him, they left almost immediately in CAROLLO's car, either
to drive around or to drive to another location, and he does
not know the topic of their discussion. In the case of
GAGLIANO, he stayed only a few minutes and departed and left
a newspaper. for CARLOS MARCELLO to read, which MARCELLO put
in his center desk drawer.

NO 1734-PC noted that in the case of the recent
meetings between MARCELLO, GAGLIANG, and CAROLLO, it is the
first such activity that he has noted since the LaStella
Restaurant meeting in 1966. NO 1734-PC advised there is
definitely something "in the wind" which is prompting these
meetings, but to date he does not. know the reason therefor,
other than the fact that "Dr." FRANK RAGANO. (TRAFFICANTE's
attorney) called CARLOS MARCELLO on 12/3/68, ‘and there very
probably is a connection between this telephone call and these
recent meetings. :

On 12/5/68, NO 1734-PC advised that GIUSEPPE GAGLIANO
‘again met with MARCELLO very briefly on the AM of 12/4/68. He
further advised that Dr. FRANK had tried to reach MARCELLO
today from Miami, but MARCELLO was unavailable, and MARCELLO's
secretary advised RAGANO that he would not be back in town
until late evening and to place the call tomorrow. NO 1734-PC
advised that normally either himself and/or DOROTHY CROWDER

R
COVER PAGE

Yi
ocId:32577900 Page 11



DocId: 32577900

NO 92-36
JCM - smj

know MARCELLO's whereabouts at. anygiven moment but that

today he left unaccompanied, driving his’ own personal car,

and NO 1734-PC speculates that more ‘than likely he drove to
Baton Rouge, Louisiana to see his girl friend, GLORIA DE SANTOS;
otherwise, he would have utilized a chauffeur.

NO 1734-PC stated that .CARLOS MARCELLO had earlier
called CROWDER long distance, place unknown, and informed
her that he would be back that evening. NO 1734-PC stated
that he overheard MARCELLO tell his brother, JOSEPH, that
he should be ready to make a trip to Miami next week or the
week after. NO-1734-PC speculates’ that this is probably a
result of the meetings between. MARCELLO, CAROLLO, and GAGLIANO.
NO 1734-PC advised that he will: follow this matter closely
and immediately advise when he-determines exactly how and
when JOE MARCELLO departs.

NO 1734-PC advised that’ an individual by the name
of (FNU) SIMON was to meet with..CARLOS MARCELLO today concerning
the prospective purchase of Churchill Farm Estate. At this
point, NO 1734-PC knows only that..SIMON represents Brown and
Root im a proposed offer to purchase this property. NO 1734-PC
noted that this property is estimated. to be worth $18,000,000,
and CARLOS MARCELLO's net worth’.is approximately $30,000,000.

NO 1734-PC advised: ‘that,*as ofa year ago, he has
complete and sole authority to: write checks:on every corporate
entity in which CARLOS MARCELLOis: involved. He noted that
yesterday for the very first. time.CARLOS MARCELLO asked him
for the figures on the balance.of each corporate bank account.
He does not know the reason for:this.

NO 1734-PC noted that'he has copies of all the
balance sheets and will make these available. He further
noted that he kas convinced MARCELLO for the need of a copy
machine in the office and will utilize same this coming.
Saturday when he. is alone and can work unencumbered by the

Page 12


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

presence of others to copy all -documents in MARCELLO's
financial empire and other related documents of possible
interest. He noted that this task will take some time, as
there are many variables involved concerning his access to
them, and he will have to work .at it piecemeal.

NO 1734-PC advised that CARLOS MARCELLO has essentially
four large tracts of land; 1) Churchill Farm Estate; 2) Cyprus
Gardens, which is 2 piece of.property of approximately 150-170
acres in size, which is located between the Woodland West
Subdivision and. the Timberlane Country Club on the west
bank of the Mississippi River in: the Harvey-Gretna, Louisiana
area; 3) the piece of property on'Veterans Memorial Highway
across from Dorignac's Super Market, approximately. 50 acres
in size, valued at $1,250,000; and 4) a piece of property in
St. Charles Parish on Highway 90 West, which presently houses
a marina known as Al and Maria's on the road to Thibodaux,
Louisiana.

This piece of property is 500 acres in size,
consisting mostly of swamp land and is owned in the name
of JOSEPH BALESTRE (phonetic), son of decezsed Captain JOHN
BALESTRE, long-time associate of MARCELLO from Morgan City,
Louisiana. JOSEPH, as JOHN's heir, inherited one-half
interest, and MARCELLO owns one-half interest. JOSEPH
BALESTRE iS an engineer currently working and residing in the
Detroit area at a legitimate job. .

NO 1734-PC noted that, in relation to the property
across from Dorignac's, that CARLOS MARCELLO had sent him
to the City Council meeting this afternoon in Gretna,
Louisiana to have this piece of property sub-divided, inasmuch
as it was too large for ready sale, and they have found
a purchaser for half the property at $600,000.

NO 1734-PC noted that WARREN DAY, formerly closely

associated with CARLOS MARCELLO regarding real estate matters,
has arranged for a buyer for this parcel of land and will

T
COVER PAGE

Docld: 32577900 Page 13


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

receive a'6% commission on its sale. He noted, however,
that WARREN DAY is no: longer in good graces with CARLOS

. MARCELLO for several reasons. He stated that DAY is a
braggadocio-type individual, drinks heavily, and on one
occasion struck NO 1734-PC when he would not divulge to him
CARLOS MARCELLO's whereabouts.’ He noted that DONALD STONE,
long-time -associate and chauffeur of MARCELLO, was present
at the time and ejected DAY from the office. When MARCELLO
found out about this specific incident, he severed his. close
assoGiation with him.

NO 1734-PC will follow this situation and advise as
to the purchaser and other pertinent details.

NO 1734-PC advised that CARLOS MARCELLO also owns
one-half interest in'the Holiday Motel om Highway 90 West,
but it is in JOSEPH MARCELLO’s (JR.'s) name, and they are
selling this tommorrow (12/6/68) to the party who owns the
other half interest, nam@d STANDRIDGE, for a piece of
$105,000. : "

NO 1734-PC advised that CARLOS MARCELLO owns
several other pieces of land in lot size scattered throughout
the parish, of which he can report later in detail, as well
as the corporations which control this property.

NO 1734-PC was questioned as to the ownership of
the property which houses thé club known as Soul City.
NO 1734-PC advised that this is owned by JOE C. MARCELLO, the
son, and JOE MARCELLO, JR., the brother, but is in the name
of an attorney named A. J. GRAFFAGNINO (phonetic). In this
regard, PC advised that, before the MARCELLOs opened Soul
City, CARLOS MARCELLO had been approached by EMILE
YACOPANELLI and Jefferson Parish District Attorney FRANK
LANGRIDGE to build an apartment complex on the property
adjacent to Soul City, which formerly housed O'Shaunnessey's
Bowling Alley, and utilizing both properties for this. complex.

U
COVER PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 14


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

NO 1734-PC advised that CARLOS liked the idea and agreed,
but in the negotiations thereafter LANGRIDGE and IACOPANELLI
left CARLOS MARCELLO’s name out and, therefore, CARLOS did
not go through with it.

NO 1734-PC advised that JOSEPH PORETTO sent word
back to CARLOS on 11/27/68, that he was being interviewed
by two FBI agents, and they were on the way back to interview
him when they finished there. Later, PORETTO came to MARCELLO's
office immediately after agents’ departure, to report to him.
At that point, CARLOS had a visitor in ‘his office which he
sent into NO 1734-PC's office, instructing NO 1734-PC to lock
the door and give him-coffee.

NO 1734-PC does not know the identity of this
individual and, when the FBI did not show up, he went back
into MARCELLO's office. When MARCELLO found out from PORETTO
that ANGELO PALMISANO had been arrested, he instructed
NO 1734-PC to arrange bond for him, which NO 1734-PC declined
to do, telling CARLOS he had too many other important things
to do and to have G. WRAY GILL or A. J. Bonding Company make
the arrangements, which was done.

NO 1734-PC was queried as to whether or not CARLOS
MARCELLO made an attempt to bribe any of the jurors at his
recent trial in Laredo, Texas, to which NO 1734-PC responded
no. NO 1734-PC noted that he feels that, if such an attempt
had been made, he would have had knowledge of it.

a, The same question was posed to NO 1734-PC concerning
CARLOS MARCELLO’s trial in 1963, with JOSEPH "BABY" MATASSA
on charges of obstruction of justice and jury tampering.

NO 1734-PC advised that, although one juror claimed he had
been approached, NO 1734-PC does not feel that MARCELLO
instigated this but rather MATASSA, possibly at MARCELLO's
instructions without NO 1734-PC's knowledge, had made the
approach to the juror, it being noted that both MARCELLO
and MATASSA.were acquitted by a trial jury concerning the
alleged bribery attempt.

Ze
v
COVER PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 15 1 i


NO 92-36
JCM - smj i i

NO 1734-PC noted that MARCELLO ig in almost daily
contact telephonically with MATASSA concerning the operation
of Pelican Tomato Company and that the reason that MIKE
DE MARCO was recently hired by Pelican Tomato’ Company was that’
the volume of business had increased to the extent that
MATASSA and JOE SALADINO could not handle it.

NO 1734-PC was questioned as to MARCELLO’s
relationship to State Senator JOHN SCHWEGMANN, whose chain
of supermarkets is one of Pelican Tomato Company's largest
customers. He advised that JOHN. SCHWEGMANN and CARLOS
MARCELLO are close friends,and he believes that MARCELLO
loaned SCHWEGMANN money when he first began expanding his
supermarket chain.

NO 1734-PC was questioned as to MARCELLO’s exact
relationship with Jefferson Parish District Attormey FRANK
LANGRIDGE. He advised that they are just close friends and
have been for many years, having grown up in the same arey.

He stated this was also true regarding MARCELLO’s relationship
with BEAUREGARD MILLER, Chief of Police of Gretna, Louisiana
NO 1734-PC advised that MARCELLO exercises no particular
control over either of these individuals as such.

- NO 1734-PC was questioned as to what, if any,
relationship MARCELLO has’ with State Attorney General
JACK P. F. GREMILLION and the exact purpose of telephone
calls made to the State Capitol, from Stevie Motel, Inc.,
telephome numbers in 1966. NO 1734-PC responded that a
great many of the calls were made by himself te Assistants
in the Attorney General's Office with whom he had become
friendly during his years as Parish Attorney of Jefferson
Parish, wherein he would request legal opinions concerning
servitude and other questions of realty law.

NO 1734-PC acknowledged that AUBREY YOUNG, former

Aide to the Governor, Was @ contact of MARCELLO in the
Governor's Office and frequented the Town and Country Motel

WwW
COVER PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 16


NO 92-36
SCM - smj

repeatedly until MARCELLO ordered him to stay away because
of his drinking problem.

NO 1734-PC advised that he does not know off-hand
specific amounts of money or individuals to whom it was
contributed, but he knows that MARCELLO contributes heavily
to individual political campaign funds for numerous politicians
throughout the state at their request and does so by writing
checks on his personal account at the Merchants Trust and
Savings Bank in Kenner, Louisiana. He stated that he would
obtain this information in the future and, if possible,
obtain copies of the cancelled checks.

NO 1734-PC was queried as to whether or not MARCELLO
has any Swiss bank accounts or investments outside the
continental United States. NO 1734-PC stated emphatically
that he knows personally that MARCELLO has no Swiss bank
accounts. Further, te knows that MARCELLO has no investments
in Mexico or any other foreign country.

In this regard, NO 1734-PC noted that, during the

time CARLOS MARCELLO was having his deportation problems,
he had decided that he liked Guatemala and would remain there;
however, his wife, JACKIE, would not leave the country.
Further, in order for bim to obtain permanent resident status,
he would have had to pay the then President of Guatemala
$250,000. MARCELLO asked NO 1734-PC’s advice concerning
this, amd NO 1734-PC advised against it. Later, the President
was assassinated, and he pointed out to MARCELLO that he
saved him $250,000, as the successor would have either thrown
him out or demanded a like amount, NG 1734-PC stated that
he does not know how MARCELLO returned surreptitiously to

4, this country from Guatemala and has never made an effort to

\ determine this.

NO 1734-PC was asked if he ever accompanied MARCELLO

on cut-of-town trips, to which he responded he had traveled
to New York and Washington, D. C. with MARCELLO on several

x
COVER PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 17


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

eccasions. He noted the trip to Washington, BD. C. was in
response to a subpoena concerning VINCENT MARCELLO's
difficulty with Federal Communications Commission in the
illegal use of broadcasting on radios utilized by the Jefferson
Music Company in their vehicles utilized on routes.

The trips to New York were in conjunction with
», MARCELLO's proposed deportation to Italy, where they met with
.. JACK WASSERMAN and Dr. ROSSI, a former Italian Consul in New

Orleans many years ago. ROSSI was MARCELLO's representative
and Italian lawyer in Rome in regard to his deportation to
Italy. NO 1734-PC Knows that money was paid to ROSSI, and
he believes that he can find the aan amount in the form
of a cancelled check.

NO 1734-PC was questioned specifically about
MARCELLO's influence or control over the mayor of Kenner,
Louisiana, EDDIE-D*‘GEROLAMO, to which he responded they are
merely close friends, and EDDIE D'GEROLAMO takes orders from
no one, except his uncle, VIC CORONA, former city marshal
of Kenner. He stated at one time CORONA and MARCELLO were
very close, but that is no longer the case.

7 NO 1734-PC was questioned as to DONALD STONE'’s present
- relationship with MARCELLO. He stated that at the present E

MARCELLO has dropped STONE because of STONE's drinking problem
but that STONE has received financial assistance from VINCENT
MARCELLO to open up a lounge in the Fountainbead Apartments
on Lake Villa Drive in Metairie, Louisiana and. requested
NO 1734-PC's assistance im obtaining the necessary licenses
for this endeavor. G >

On 12/6/68, N@ 1734-PC was telephonically contacted
and advised that the sale of the Holiday Motel was going into
closing at 11:00 AM, 12/6/68, and was being handled by A. J.
GRAFFAGNINO in his offices.

NO 1734-PC further advised that Mr. (FNU) SIMON is
MOISE SIMON, attorney for Brown and Root Construction Company,
and is from Bay. City, Texas. Nothing definite was decided

Y¥ =
COVER PAGE

DociId:32577900 Page 18


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

concerning SIMON’s proposal concerning Churchill Farm,
and he returned to Texas. NO 1734-PC will follow this matter
and advise.

NO 1734-PC was contacted on 12/16,27,28,30/68, and
1/2/69, and the following is a summary of the information
furnished on those dates:

On 12/16/68, NO 1734-PC advised that CARLOS MARCELLO
left today in his personally-owned automobile, being chauffeured
by SAL BOEMIA en route to Bay City, Texas for unknown reason.
NO 1734-PC does know that CARLOS MARCELLO contacted FRANK
GAGLIANO telephonically, requesting FRANK to tell his father,
GIUSEPPE, to "pack a tooth brush" and meet CARLOS MARCELLO
at his home to accompany him. NO 1734-PC also knows that
CARLOS MARCELLO planned to pick up PICOU (MILTON PONTIER),
long-time Lafayette, Louisiana associate of CARLOS MARCELLO.
NO 1734-PC advised that Dr. FRANK RAGANO, TRAFFICANTE's
attorney, was in telephonic contact with CARLOS MARCELLO :
that morning and was planning to meet with CARLOS MARCELLO -in ~
Bay City, Texas. NO 1734-PC knows that CARLOS. MARCELLO had —~-
in his briefcase a transcript of the Laredo trial and also
a map of the Waterford Oil Company property located adjacent
to Churchill Farm Estate.

On 12/27/68, NO 1734-PC advised that CARLOS MARCELLO
made arrangements to purchase a tract of land, 1,785 acres in total
located on U. 8. Highway 90 West, from the Wate erford oil Company
located in Houston, Texas. The act ef sale is not final; |
however, CARLOS MARCELLO has put down $50,000 earnest money
and is to come up with another $150,000 in thirty days and
the balance to be paid in four years at six percent. Total
purchase price was approximately $1,000,000 or roughly $526
per acre. This property adjoins Churchill Farm Estate and
was bought by CARLOS MARCELLO primarily for the reason that
the Dixie Freeway, as proposed, will pass through both this
property and Churchill Farm Estate. The property will probably

Z
COVER PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 19


NO 92-36
JCM ~ smj

be placed in CARLOS MARCELLO's son's name. Partners in this
endeavor are LOUIS ROUSSEL, JOSEPH MATASSA, and his brother,
JOHN MATASSA.

In addition, CARLOS MARCELLO purchased 100 acres with
frontage on U. S. Highway 90 West in order to have access to
the Waterford Oil Company property and had to pay $3,309 per
acre for this property. NO 1734-PC stated that CARLOS MARCELLO
utilized $50,000 of the $105,000 realized from the sale of the
Holiday Motel.

NO 1734-PC advised that the Cypress Gardens tract
of land previously mentioned is owned by Gems, Inc., which
was recently reorganized, and JAMES J. CULOTTA was removed
aS President. NO 1734-PC stated that actually Gems, Inc.
comprises nine separate sub-corporations, each named after
a precious jewel, such as Sapphire, Inc., etc., and the
original 180 acres was ‘divided into nine twenty-acre parcels,
each under a Separate corporate name.

: '

NO 1734-PC advised that this tract of land was
purchased by CARLOS MARCELLO a number of years ago in his
father's name for $28,500, and last year alone they sold off
subdivided properties amounting to over $1,000,000. He
stated that the new officers of Gems, Inc. are JEFF HAMPTON,
CARLOS MARCELLO's son-in-law, a8 President; JOE C. MARCELLO,
CARLOS MARCELLO’s son, Secretary-Treasurer; MIKE MAROUN,
CARLOS MARCELLO'’s attorney, Associate. NO 1734-PC advised
that MIKE MAROUN has a one-fourth interest in the corporation.
He also advised that WARREN DAY received a 10% commission on
all sales of the corporation.

NO 1734-PC advised that PHIL RIZZUTO stopped to
see CARLOS MARCELLO today and conversed behind locked doors.
ANGELO PALMISANO was with CARLOS MARCELLO prior to RIZZUTO's
appearance and was asked to leave the room by ‘CARLOS MARCELLO.
NO 1734-PC does not know the reason for the meeting but
remarked it seemed unusual because CARLOS MARCELLO regards

RIZZUTO as being “punch drunk."
\

AA
COVER PAGE

DocId: 32577900 Page 20 1 \


No 92-36
JCM ~ smj

NO 1734-PC advised that CARLOS MARCELLO gave his
son his new Lincoln for Christmas and is purchasing another
new Lincoln for himself from JACK DE SALVO for $8,900 plus,
to be delivered in a few weeks.

NO 1734~PC advised that CARLO MONTALBANO stopped
/ by 12/27/68, to see CARLOS MARCELLO, but he was out, and
/ MONTALBANO has made frequent attempts in the past week to
/ meet with CARLOS MARCELLO without success for unknown reasons.

/ NO 1734-PC advised that WARREN DAY has an apartment
in the Imperial House on Causeway Boulevard.

On 12/23/68, NO 1734-PC had advised that the funeral
of the mother of CARLOS MARCELLO’s long-time girl friend,
LUCIA MICELI, was to take place that day. On 12/27/68,

NO 1734-PC advised that CARLOS MARCELLO himself did not attend
the funeral but sent his personal secretary, DOROTHY CROWDER,
his chauffeur, JOE ARNONE, and his brother, PAS MARCELLO.

NO 1734-PC explained that CARLOS MARCELLO could not send his
son, JOE C. MARCELLO, because JOE C, MARCELLO would have told
his wite, JACKIE, that CARLOS MARCELLO's relationship with
LUCIA MICELI continues. NO 1734-PC advised that the same

thing applies to JEFF HAMPTGN, who would also go straight

to CARLOS MARCELLO's wife if he knew the relationship continues.

NO 1734-PC advised that on 12/23/68, CARLOS MARCELLO
had a party at the Town and Country Motel attended by A. J.
GRAFFIGNINO, WARREN DAY and girl friend, J. FOLSE ROY and wife,
CARLOS MARCELLO's son, JOHN HATTAWAY, (FNU) COMO of Como
Realty with offices in the Imperial House, and Mrs. ARLENE
SWING. NO 1734-PC did not know ber address but stated that
her husband is aware of the relationship and is satisfied
that CARLOS MARCELLO is paying the house mortgage.

NO 1734-PC identified a photograph of FRANK CARACCI

as the individual who is attempting to date CARLOS MARCELLO's
private secretary, DOROTHY CROWDER, without success.

/ BB
: COVER PAGE

\Docla: 32577900 Page 21


NO 92-36
SCM - smj

Concerning information developed by Houston that
CARLOS MARCELLO was attempting to purchase a piece of property
Known as the Golf Crest Country Club, this is not a venture
by CARLOS MARCELLO but rather by J. FOLSE ROY. Regarding
ROY, NO 1734-PC advised that he is involved in a scheme
in Belize, British Honduras with an individual named TAYLOR ,
first name believed to be HOWARD or HAROLD. He described
TAYLOR as short, heavy set, and a birthmark all over his face.
He stated that TAYLOR has an apartment in Houston but is
originally from California.

NO 1734-PC advised that ROY attempted to interest
CARLOS MARCELLO in this deal, but CARLOS MARCELLO turned him
down. The deal involves the minting of money for the Government,
and they have a bank set up already, They will mint coin for
the Government by contract but will also mint gold coin, coat
it with some type of substance in order to ship it into this
country. NO 1734-PC had no further details concerning this
operation.

NO 1734-PC advised that FRANK CASONE of Memphis,
Tennessee has made numerous trips to see CARLOS MARCELLO in
the past year, attempting to interest CARLOS MARCELLO in
investing in a motel that CASONE is building in the Bahamas,
but CARLOS MARCELLO has exhibited no interest in this venture.
NO 1734-PC stated that CASONE dates DOROTHY CROWDER when in
town and stays at the Town and Country Motel.

NO 1734-PC identified BOB ANDREWS as an attorney
associated with FRANK RAGANO. (Houston source had identified
BOB ANDREWS as a young attorney from Florida who was with
CARLOS MARCELLO in Bay City, Texas 12/17/68.)

NO 1734-PC advised that the meeting at Pedone’s
Red Onion Restaurant in Covington, Louisiana between CARLOS
MARCELLO, his son, and A. J. GRAFFIGNINO on the weekend of
12/15/68, concerned the sale of the Holiday Motel and that
transaction has been completed.

cc
COVER PAGE

Docld: 32577900 Page 22


NO 92-36
JCM ~ smj

On 12/28/68, NO 1734-PC advised that CARLOS 7
MARCELLO had reservations that date on Braniff Flight 256,
departing at 6:15 PM to Shreveport, Louisiana, returning on
Braniff Flight 235, departing 4:25 PM from Shreveport on
12/29/68. The purpose of visit known only to NO 1734-PC
as to meet with ERNEST PALMISANO and others unknown.

NO 1734-PC exhibited a letter from MOISE H. SIMON,
attorney, 1514 Seventh Street, Bay City, Texas, enclosing
a petition for Executive Clemency for Commutation of Sentence,
requesting that CARLOS MARCELLO and PHIL SMITH read this
over, fill it out, and send it back. The letter was signed

fe "JACK," believed to be an attorney associate of SIMON.

NO 1734-PC advised that PHIL SMITH read his petition and
advised CARLOS MARCELLO that it was not applicable until
his appeals were finalized. NO 1734-PC advised that,
evidently, SIMON had convinced CARLOS MARCELLO that they
could present this petition to President JOHNSON before he
left office. NO 1734-PC advised that PHIL SMITH was not
returning the petition.

NO 1734-PC advised that CARLOS MARCELLO does not
plan to have his traditional New Years Eve party at his home
this year.

\

NO 1734-PC advised that PETE IMBORNONE is not being
financed in his present operation by any of the MARCELLOs
and, in fact, still owes VINCENT MARCELLO 4 considerable sum
of money for the operations of the Pla~Pen and Club Pisano
Lounges.

On 12/30/68, NO 1734-PC advised that CARLOS MARCELLO
met Friday night, 12/27/68, with four Louisiana State
Representatives at his offices at the.Town and Country Motel
until 9:00-PM,-discussing the 10% funds that the state is
required to raise to match the 90% already allocated by the
Federal Government for the construction of the Dixie Freeway.

DD
COVER PAGE

Docld:32577900 Page 23


DocId:32577900 Page 24

NO 92-36
JCM -.sinj

The purpose of CARLOS MARCELLO's meeting with these
individuals was to insure that the state provides this 10%
because that freeway will pass through properties owned by
CARLOS MARCELLG. NO 1734-PC identified HANK LAURICELLA, a
Mr. ULLO (believed to be a pseudonym for a representative from
St. Charles Parish named BARKER or BAKER), and two others
unknown to NO 1734~PC. NO 1734-PC advised that CARLOS MARCELLO
hed a 1:00 PM appointment with LAURICELLA at Elmwood Plantation
Restaurant on 12/28/68, and did not go to Shreveport as planned.

PC advised that PHIL RIZZUTO met with CARLOS MARCELLO
twice on 12/30/68, behind closed doors, and on one occasion
CARLOS MARCELLO called his son, JOE C. MARCELLO,. into the
room. The purpose of the meeting is unknown to NO 1734-PC.

NO 1734-PC identified a safety deposit box in the
name of H. P. B. Company, Inc., located at the Merchants
frust and Savings Bank, Kenner, Louisiana, which contains a
daily diary maintained by CARLOS MARCELLO's private secretary,
DOROTHY CROWDER, concerning CARLOS MARCELLO's daily activities
and whereabouts. NO 1734-PC advised that this safety deposit
box also contains two letters, reflecting implied threats to
CARLOS MARCELLO. Both of these letters were delivered by
hand, unsigned, to CARLOS MARCELLO, approximately six to
eight months ago.

The first letter was delivered by FRANK RAGANO
from SANTO TRAFFICANTE and in essence tells CARLOS MARCELLO
that, if they cannot get together and settle their c
differencies, there will be trouble for CARLOS MARCELLO.

The second letter is from ANTHONY CAROLLO and
contains the same type of threat. The last letter was also
hand delivered, but NO 1734-~PC does not know who delivered
it. NO 1734-PC advised that CARLOS MARCELLO had PHIL SMITH
block out certain portions of these letters, xerox them,
and furnished them to his attorney, WASSERMAN, for use if
anything happened to CARLOS MARCELLO. NO 1734-PC advised
he would obtain copies of these letters at an opportune time
in the future.

EE
COVER PAGE


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

On 1/2/69, NO 1734-PC provided xerox copies of
papers relating to the recent purchase by CARLOS MARCELLO
of 1,785 acres off of U. S. Highway 90 West and land transactions
engaged in by the Gems, Inc. company over the past year.

NO 1734-PC also advised that PHIL RIZZUTO: has been
calling CARLOS MARCELLO almost every day, and NO 1734-PC
learned that RIZZUTO is attempting to obtain financing for
a cousin in Kenner, Louisiana who is building duplexes.
(This individual is believed by the New Orleans Office to be
LEONARD FRANZONE, Chicago hoodlum who recently moved to
Louisiana aS a permanent resident.

FF
COVER .PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 25


NO 92-36
JCM - smj-

On. 1/8/69 ,NO1F34-NC advised that CARLOS MARCELLO
is very close to AL CHITTENDEN, President of the ILA Local,
and was introduced originally through G. WRAY GILL. Source
noted that, in fact, CHITTENDEN utilized MARCELLO'’s Churchill
Farm Estate for his, CHITTENDEN's, wedding in the recent past.
NO 1697-PC had furnished information concerning an individual
whom'be observed enter and depart MARCELLO's residence. On
this date NO 1734-PC identified this individual as JACK
LEOPARD, who is associated with G. WRAY GILL's law firm and
who is working on MARCELLO's appeal on his recent assault of
a Federal officer conviction. Source also advised that
MURRAY SOLO, who owns and operates a couple of places in the
French Quarter, was trying to see CARLOS MARCELLO today
without success. Source advised that CARLOS MARCELLO is a
good friend of a lobbyist in Washington by the name of IRVIN
DAVIDSON, and DAVIDSON in turn introduced MARCELLO to: JIMMY
HOFFA. In this regard he knows of one specific occasion
when HOFFA and CARLOS MARCELLO met, and he does not recall
the date, but it was when BARRY GOLDWATER was running for
President and came to New Orleans for a speech. NO 1734-PC
advised that PHILLIP RIZZUTO is registered in room 10 of the
Town and Country Motel, but NO 1734-PC does not know the reason
for this. NO 1734-PC advised that DONALD STONE yesterday was
in the company of CARLOS MARCELLO's girl friend, GLORIA:
DE SANTOS, and her girl friend, BILLIE WATKINS, in the Town
and Country Lounge, and the girls stayed at the motel that
evening, returning to Baton Rouge the next day.

On 1/23/69, NO 1734-PC advised that CARLOS MARCELLO’s
Laiayette, Louisiana associate, MILTON PONTIER, aka PICOU,
was coming to New Orleans tomorrow with 1,000 crawfish heads
for a party at Churchill Farm Estate. Source does not know
the reason for the party or who will be in attendance at this
time but would determine it and advise. Source advised that
CARLOS MARCELLO and his girl friend, GLORIA DE SANTOS, had a
fight, and he sent someone to Baton Rouge to pick up the car
he had. been letting her utilize. NO 1734-PC advised that
Sheriff EDDIE ST. MARIE of Lafourche Parish was im the office
of CARLOS MARCELLO at the Town and Country Motel yesterday and

GG
COVER PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 26


NO 92-36
JCM = smj

Signed over 1,000 plus shares in Tidewater Marine Corporation.
NO 1734-PC advised that these shares actually owned by MARCELLO
but purchased for him by ST. MARIE, and they are now maintained
in a safe-deposit box at the Merchants Bank and Trust in
Kenner, Louisiana. NO 1734-PC advised that ROCK HEBERT, the
bondsman from Gretna, Louisiana, met with CARLOS yesterday

for unknown reason, Source further advised on this date that
both JOSEPH and JIMMY ARNONE are quitting their employment

at the Town and Country Motel. NO 1734-PC advised that both
SAMMY and VINCENT MARCELLO, brothers of CARLOS MARCELLO,
stopped by yesterday at MARCELLO's office and dropped off two
manila envelopes full of money. MARCELLO took some money from
one of the efvelopes and told his secretary, DOTTIE CROWDER,

to place it in a small envelope for a Mrs. COCO, who is unknown
to NO'1734-PC. NO 1734-PC advised that MARCELLO has a hidden
interest in the Merchants Bank and Trust, Kenner, Louisiana,
and he will attempt to determine who is fronting for CARLOS
MARCELLO and the amount of the investment. He also noted that
CARLOS MARCELLO also maintains large accounts through his
various front companies with the First National Bank of
Jefferson and the Guaranty Bank. NO 1734-PC advised that
FRANK CASONE, a Memphis, Tennessee hoodlum now residing on

the Gulf Coast, came to see CARLOS MARCELLO yesterday with

two individuals known only to the source af LEO (LNU) and

PAUL (LNU), who were temporarily staying at the Bourbon Orleans
Hotel. NO 1734-PC advised that JOE NUCCIO came to! see CARLOS
MARCELLO a few days ago and attempted to influencé MARCELLO

in having the Southern Tours Bus Line step at a new club he

was trying to open together with JOE JOSEPH. This new club
was to be located at PETE HERMAN‘s old place in the French
Quarter and was to feature female impersonators fashioned
after the My-O-My Club or the lakefront. MARCELLO turned
NUCCIG down and later told NO 1734-PC he did not want the
competition with My-O-My, indicating to N@ 1734-PC for the
first time that he had some interest in this club.

hE
COVER PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 27


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

On 1/27/69, NO 1734-PC advised that GLORIA DE SANTOS
called MARCELLO from Baton Rouge complaining that she had been
interviewed by the FBI, and MARCELLO became infuriated.

On 1/28/69, NO 1734-PC advised the meeting that took
place at Churchill Farm Estate the previous Friday in which
MILTON PONTIER supplied the crawfish was for the purpose of
discussing real estate and actually two meetings took place.
The first meeting was at 2:00 PM and was attended by real
estate people, including WILSON ABRAHAM. The second meeting
took place at 3:00 PM and was attended by JOSEPH MATASSA,
JOSEPH SALADINO, JOSEPH MARCELLO, JR., JOSEPH C. MARCELLO,
SAMMY MARCELLO, and DONALD STONE did the cooking. Subject
of discussion was the recent purchase of the 1,784 acres of
land from the Waterford Oil Company of Houston, Texas,
previously mentioned by NO 1734-PC, and it was decided that
they would attempt to borrow $1,000,000 from a Venezuelan
Source through a law firm in New Orleans named Harris, Young,
and Rosenblum. NO 1734-PC noted that he himself was not in
attendance and, therefore, does not know the names of everyone
there. NO 1734~PC advised that MOISE SIMON, attorney from
Bay City, Texas, called CARLOS MARCELLO today stating that
he was sending an individual named NORRIS PIER and another
individual over to look at Churchill Farm Estate as prospective
purchasers. SIMON wanted CARLOS MARCELLO to show the property
himself, but MARCELLO sent his son-in-law, JEFF HAMPTON, instead.
PIER was not satisfied with this arrangement and requested
to meet MARCELLO at the VIP Room, Delta Airlines, that
evening before returning to Houston. However, NO 1734-PC
advised MARCELLO told him he was on his way to Baton Rouge
with his real estate associates, WARREN DAY and Mr. COMO, to
see GLORIA DE SANTOS. Later that afternoon MARCELLO
telephonically contacted NO 1734-PC and in the interim NO 1734-PC
had been advised by LISA MOSCA that somebody from out of town
was there and wanted to meet MARCELLO about an urgent matter.
NO 1734-PC conveyed this to MARCELLO, who said he would delay
his trip to Baton Rouge and proceed to MOSCA’s.

Ii
COVER PAGE

DociId:32577900 Page 28 a i"


NO 92-36
JCM - smj sy

On “1/30/69, source advised that JACK KENT, son of
RICHARD KENT, is married to MILTON PONTIER's daughter.
NO 1734-PC advised that JACK KENT and CARLOS MARCELLO were
together in KENT's car this morning examining property on the
West Bank and, in particular, the Woodland West Subdivision,
as KENT wanted to purchase some property in that area and
wanted MARCELLO'’s advice. | NO 1734-PC advised that WILSON
ABRAHAM and JOSEPH C. MARCELLO were requested by CARLOS MARCELLO
to meet FRANK RAGANO at the airport and take him to the
Elmwood Plantation Restaurant between 12:00 and 1:00 PM for
a conference with MARCELLO, believed to be in reference to a
racetrack located someplace in Florida. NO 1734-PC advised
that he attended the luncheon, but nothing pertinent was said
at the table, and MARCELLO and RAGANO talked in the car
outside prior to RAGANO's departure on a flight back to Miami
at 2:55 PM. NO 1734-PC advised that WILSON ABRAHAM. drove
RAGANO back to the airport.

On 2/5/69, source advised that FRANK RAGANO and
F, LEE. BAILEY were staying at the Bourbon Orleans Hotel
yesterday and were to meet today with CARLOS MARCELLO and
WILSON ABRAHAM for unknown reason at an unknown location.

On “2/7/69, NO 1734-PC advised that F. LEE BAILEY
and MELVIN BELLI met with District Attorney JIM GARRISON
of Orleans Parish for unknown reason.

(On 2/23/69, NO 1734-PC advised that, during Mardi
Gras and the day before, CARLOS MARCELLO, NOFIO PECORA, and
JOSEPH MATASSA all had adjoining suites at the Bourbon Orleans
Hotel. JOE PORETTO had a visitor from Petroit who was his
guest by the name of TONY (LNU), whom NO 1734-PC described
as short and bald.

On 2/27/69, NO 1734-PC advised that CARLOS MARCELLO
is selling one-half of his property located across the street

from Dorignac'’s Super Market on Veterans Highway with the
act of sale to be finalized on 2/27/69. Property will be sold

JI
COVER PAGE |

DocId:32577900 Page 29


NO 92-36
JCM - smj
/

to a JULIUS ROSENBLUM.” NO 1734-PC advised he will furnish
full details in the form of xeroxed documents concerning this
sale at a later date. NO 1734-PC advised that.CARLOS MARCELLO
had reserved two rooms at the Town and Country Motel and told
_ NO.-1734-PC these rooms would be utilized by a sheriff and
three deputies from the State of Florida. MARCELLO instructed
NO 1734-PC to register these rooms in MARCELLO's name.
NO 1734-PC advised that around noon on 2/26/69, JOHNNY
LA BRUZZO, a former chauffeur for MARCELLO, visited MARCELLO
at the Town and Country Motel office. LA BRUZZO was
emotionally upset and was actually crying in the presence
of the source, but MARCELLO closed all the doors in his office
and turned up the radio so that NO 1734-PC was unable to hear
what transpired between LA BRUZZO and MARCELLO. NO 1734-PC
Speculated that LA BRUZZO was upset because of the FBI's
investigation into LA BRUZZO's fraudulent aera with
Smail Business Administration. Zl

On 3/5/69, NO 1734-PC advised he had been contacted

by HENRY BI MICELI, who. is the only heir of SAM.DI MICELI,
and was requested by him to reopen the succession of title
to the estate. He noted that, when SYLVESTRO CAROLLO was
picked up for deportation the second time, he was hiding
on SAM DI MICELI’s farm in Slidell. -He stated that SAM
DI MICELI died in 1963, and he does not know why HENRY now
contacts him but; if anything pertinent évolves, he will
report it. Concerning the recent expose in the local press
concerning the city official named LOUIS GOMEZ having met
with CARLOS MARCELLO regarding the Orleans Parish garbage
situation, he advised that a meeting did take place on
10/3/68, not attended by NO 1734-PC, but he knows that GOMEZ,
MARCELLO, CARLO MONTALBANO, RAY PATRON, NUNZIO SQUILLANTE,
and another unidentified individual from New York were in
attendance. The topic of discussion was the feasibility of
forming a company to obtain the Orleans Parish garbage contract
if the City Council decided to let priyate collection. He

: also stated. that this was not the first time that GOMEZ met
with MARCELLO concerning this situation, and “MARCELLO has been

*°,

KK
COVER PAGE

DocId: 32577900 Page 30


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

interested for some time in entering the garbage collection
field. He stated at first MARCELLO considered bidding on
the Orleans Parish contract through Louisiana Disposal
Company headed by JOHN HATTAWAY, who had the garbage contracts
for Harahan and Kenner, Louisiana until recently and was
financially backed by MARCELLO. However, HATTAWAY lost both
these contracts and is now out of business. NO 1734-PC
advised that MARCELLO had decided to keep HATTAWAY on the
payroll and was sending him to Memphis, Tennessee to get
Some prices on some,-equipment because DAN SILVERMAN of
Jefferson Disposal Company is having financial difficulties
and wanted to sell his commercial pickups to MARCELLO for

a given amount of money plus some liabilities.

NO 1734-PC advised that CARLOS MARCELLO has
instructed him to form a new company, which will be a holding
company, and MARCELLO's son, JOE C. MARCELLO, will be the
president, and NO 1734-PC will be chairman of the board.

NO 1734-PC is drawing up the papers for this new company

and will agvise at a later date its name, corporate make-up
and shareholders. NQ 1734-PC advised that the sheriff and
three deputies scheduled to stay at the Town and Country never
did show up and, therefore, he did not learn their identities.
NO 1734-PC stated that last Monday he passed an act of sale
for FRANK GAGLIANO on the purchase of a house which MARCELLO
arranged through a friend so that GAGLIANG had to have no
money down and no closing costs. NO 1734-PC advised that
FRANK CASONE was in town one day last week but did not get

to see MARCELLO; however, he did call DOTTIE CROWDER, whom

he dates occasionally when in town.

On 3/11/69, NO 1734-PC advised that the MBHS~of the
mew company being formed will be Marsh Lands, Incorporated,
and MARCELLO plans to retain 51% interest in this company,
selling shares at $10,000 a piece to selected individuals,

a complete list of which he will furnish after he has issued
the stock, but he recalls from memory that some of the

‘Lb
COVER PAGE

Docld:32577900 Page 31


NO 92-36
JCM ~ smj

individuals will be JOSEPH and JOHN MATASSA (JOHN MATASSA
probably fronting for LOUIS ROUSSEL), JIMMY BEESON, JACK
.. WASSERMAN, MIKE MAROUN, Mrs. BLANCHE LONG, widow of EARL,

State Attorney General JACK P. F. GREMILLION, all the MARCELLO
brothers, and some of the MOSCA family, in addition to others
he cannot recall at this time. NO 1734=PC stated that another
purpose for forming this company was to give MARCELLO capital
in the amount of $1,000,000 to pay for the Waterford Oil
Company property because they had decided against utilizing
the Venezuelan source of money because of the high interest
rate attached to that source. NOQ 1734-PC advised he would
furnish complete details on this company at a later date.
NO 1734-PC advised that last Sunday CARLOS MARCELLO, JACK P. F.
GREMILLION, and JACK WASSERMAN met at an unknown location
half-way between Baton Rouge and New Orleans, Louisiana.
NO 1734-PC advised that GREMILLION intends to utilize WASSERMAN
as his legal counsel in his indictment in the Louisiana Loan
and Thrift case. NO 1734-PC advised that CARLOS MARCELLO and
his brother, JOSEPH, JOE PORETTO, and ANTHONY CAROLLO met

~ today behind closed doors fof some unknown reason which he
will determine later. _

On 3/12/69, NG 1%34-PC advised that the meeting
between MARCELLO, PORETTO, and CAROLLO concerning CAROLLO's
attempt to take over the Town and Country Restaurant from
PORETTO, but no agreement was reached because CAROLLO wanted
to get in for nothing, and PORETTO wants too much money.

NO 1734-PC advised that A. J. GRAFFIGNINO received an urgent
call from U. S. Representative HALE BOGGS this afternoon
summoning him to Washington by airplane that afternoon:

NO 1734-PC did. not know the reason for this meeting but would
attempt to determine. NOQ 1734-PC advised that ED ROUSSEL is
sharing office space with A. J. GRAFFIGNINO and is "on our
payroll." It is noted that ROUSSEL is the former head of IRS
intelligence in New Orleans and currently Chief Counsel to
the Governor's Labor Racket-Management Commission of Inquiry.
NO 1734-PC advised that PHIL RIZZUTO has room number 10
registered under his name at the Town and Country, as NO 1734-PC
saw the registration card this morning.

: = Mu
COVER PAGE

Docld:32577990 Page 32


NG 92-36
JCM - smj

On 3/41/69 , NO 1734-PC advised that A. J. GRAFFIGNINO
did not go to Washington and, therefore, he did not determine
why he was summoned there by BOGGS. NO 1734-PC advised that
CARLOS MARCELLO lent BABES CUTRERA the money to get started in
business in his bar in Lafitte, Louisiana, but at the present
time they are not on speaking terms. He Stated that MARCELLO
has no interest in a boat owned by CUTRERA and, to his
knowledge, never had any such interest in the past. He
noted that CUTRERA used to hold a position on the State Highway
Commission during the LONG Administration, but he does not
know how MARCELLO first became acquainted with him or whether
BABES CUTRERA is related to JOSEPH CUTRERA, owner of the
Speedy Super Market on Chef Menteur Highway. NO 1734-PC
advised that WALTER SCHWARTZ, who was formerly with DAN SILVERMAN
running the Jefferson Disposal Company for him, is now in
St. Petersburg, Florida and has advised MARCELLO that he
would rum a garbage collection firm for him for a salary of
$20,000 a year if MARCELLO decides to get into that field.
NO 1734-PC advised, however, at this point MARCELLO has
decided to pull back and not get involved in the garbage
industry, particularly in Orleans Parish. He noted that
SCHWARTZ is anxious to come back to the New Orleans area, as
he purchased a marina near Lafitte, Louisiana, which his wife
is running, and he does not like his job in St. Petersburg.

For the information of the Bureau, CARLOS MARCELLO
submitted a life insurance policy to the Community National
Life Insurance Company, Tulsa, Qklahoma. This policy was
submitted by DEXTER BUSH of Lake Charles, Louisiana, who is
presently being contacted by SA JAMES FRANCIS WRIGHT on a
confidential basis. This\life insurance policy listed as a
reference . Mayor VICTOR H. SCHIRO . .BUSH has not been
contacted concerning this policy, in view of Community
National Life Insurance Company's position that this
information should remain completely confidential; however,
it appears this policy was filled in by BUSH and signed by
MARCELLO.

NN
COVER PAGE

Docld:32577900 Page 33


NO 92-36
JCM ~ smj

New Orleans requested Oklahoma City to contact
the Community National Life Insurance Company in an attempt
to determine if they had contacted MARCELLO’s references
listed in this policy.

The following investigation was conducted at
Oklahoma City on 10/30/68:

J. G. ROGERS, Vice President, Community National
Life Insurance Company, Tulsa, Oklahoma, advised SA THOMAS W.
MC LAIN that his records fail to reflect any interview of the
references given by MARCELLO. ROGERS advised these interviews
would have been made by Retail Credit Company and reported
in their inspection report. A review of this inspection
report, a copy of which was previously furnished. to New
Grleans, reflects MARCELLO has either obtained or attempted
to obtain substantial amounts of insurance since 1962.
Therefore, it is assumed that Retail Credit Company has made
previous inquiries for other insurance companies and, in so
doing, may have interviewed veferences.

/ a
/
/ Mr. ROGERS has reiterated the fact this report was
furnished by Community National and should be kept confidential.

The following investigation was conducted at New
Orleans: i

NO 1712-PC advised that he recently determined
from J. FOLSE ROY that ROY and MARCELLO are involved in an
insurance company, Mayalan Insurance Company. NO 1712-PC
stated that this company was incorporated in the free zone
of British Honduras in July, 1966. fhe original incorporators
were TAFT MOODY, who runs a small hotel im Beliza, British
Honduras and LAWRENCE LORD TAYLOR. NO 1712-PC stated that
1 R operates out of ROY'’s office at 915 Veterans Highway,
Metairie, Louisiana.

00
COVER PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 34


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

After incorporation, the company began writing
insurance in Texas through the Insurance Office of Pioneer
General Insurance Company in San Antonio, Texas, The Texas
Insurance Department, Austin, Texas caused Mayalan a lot
of trouble because they were not paying off claims. NO 1712-PC
stated that ROY indicated that a Mr. CLINES (phonetic) of the
Texas Insurance Department caused them the trouble. ROY
indicated that they were collecting better than $200,000 a
wonth in premiums in Texas.

When pressed by the Texas Insurance Department to
file a record of American assets for claims purposes, ROY
claimed Churchill Farms, Inc. aS principle asset. It is
noted that Churchill Farms is a 7,800 acre estate owned by
MARCELLO.

As a second asset ROY told NO 1712-PC he claimed
Pecos County Water Control and Improvement Bonds, amount
unstated, which were transferred from CARLOS MARCELLO to a
Mr. CORBETT to J. FOLSE ROY and then to Mayalan Insurance
Company. f

NO 1L712-PC stated that he is slightly acquainted
with LAWRENCE LORD TAYLOR and believed him to have served
time in the past for mail fraud in insurance cases. NO 1712-PC
stated that, from his conversation with ROY, he believed that
this whole operation was a device to transfer money of CARLOS
MARCELLO out of the United States and that, while handling
this transfer of funds out of the United States, ROY has
engaged in some type of insurance fraud in Texas.

Investigation concerning this matter is being
handled under case captioned "JOSEPH FOLSE ROY, aka, AR,"
New Orleans file 92-559.

LV 303-C-TE advised he has received no additional
information concerning the subject.

PP
COVER PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 35


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

NO 1734-PC advised on 12/16/68, that MARCELLO is
being driven by SAL BOEMIA to Bay City, Texas in CARLOS
MARCELLG's black Lincoln Continemtal, 1968-1969 Lowisiana
license 320B871.

MARCELLO is to pick up "PICOU," Lafayette, Louisiana
associate of MARCELLO. MARCELLO is transporting transcript
of bis trial at Laredo, Texas and is to meet with Dr. FRANK
RAGANO, attorney for LCN boss SANTO TRAFFICANTE of Tampa,
Florids.

NO 1734-PC also advised GUISEPPE GAGLIANO, former
ondex boss of LCN in New Orleans is to be in attendance.
The purpose of the meeting is unknown to source, and MARCELLO
is to return on Wednesday, 12/18/68.

\

SAM HANNA (protect identity at his request), Editor,
The Concordia Sentinel, weekly newspaper, Ferriday, Louisiana,
advised SA JOHN A. PFEIFER of the following information on
12/12/68;

While be was attending Louisiana State University (LSU)
at Baton Rouge, Louisiana from 1951-1955, NORMAN M. MAGEE ,
who was from Port Allen, Louisiana, also vas a student in his
elass and was a fairly talented basketball player. After
graduation, MAGEE entered the military service then returned
to LSU to obtain a law degree. He was affiliated with a
Baton Rouge law firm after his graduation and in about 1960 or
1961 was sent by that firm to open a branch office in Ferriday
to help PERRY CORBET get the Delta Security Bank and Trust
Company of Ferriday off the ground, He set up his office
in building near the Ferriday City Hail. He shared this
building with JAMES "RED" MC NEW, a member of the Ferriday
Town Council and and accowntant, and with CLYDE WEBBER, JR.,
who was running an insurance agency at t time. MC NEW and
WEBBER, doing business as Colony Realty, owned this office
building.

QQ
\ . COVER PAGE

Docld:32577900 Page 36


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

except for the incident following PERRY CORBET's death, at
which time it was reported that CARLOS MARCELLO had sent a
wreath with his card to CORBET's funeral and may have stopped
at the funeral home on the day of the funeral. NORMAN MAGEE,
of course, was CORBET'’s personal attorney and the one handling
his estate. However, he has learned that Mrs. CORBET has

been supervising MAGEE very closely in disposition of this
estate.. His personal opinion of Mrs. CORBET is that she is

an bonest, moral person. |;

On 12/17/68, SA JOHN C. MC CURNIN, II advised that
MARCELLO, accompanied by SAL BOEMIA and GIUSEPPE GAGLIANO of
New Orleans area, had departed New Orleans on 12/16/68, with
a transcript of the Laredo, Texas trial in hand and were
scheduled to travel to Lafayette, Louisiana to pick up MILTON
“PICOU" PONTIER and. then continue on to Bay City, Texas to
meet with SAM TRAFFICANTE's attorney.

At approximately 12:55 PM PONTIER’s house at 505
St. Camille Street, Lafayette, Louisiana was observed, and
parked in the driveway was a white 1969 Pontiac Grand Prix
bearing 1968 Louisiana license 471718, registered to MILTON
PONTIER at this address.

At approximately 1:00PM a telephone call to
PONTIER'’s number, 235-4427, determined from the woman answering
that\ PONTIER was not home and was not expected until the
evening of 12/17/68.

HO 1293-PC, contacted 12/17/68, at Bay City, Texas,
furnished the following information:

This Source advised she had originally been placed
in contact with CARLOS MARCELLO by one JACK HALFEN, Collegeport,
Texas, in connection with MARCELLO'’s attempt to buy the Oasis
Motel at Bay City. HO 1293-PC advised that MARCELLO reportedly
made two or three attempts to purchase the motel and used MOISE E.

TT
COVER PAGE

Docld:32577900 Page 37


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

SIMON, 2 Bay City attorney, in these attempts. Being
unsuccessful, HALFEN reportedly furnished HO 1293-PC's name
to MARCELLO as being the one who could effect the sale.

HO 1293-PC stated she was contacted from New Orleans by
persons representing themselves to be connected with the
Holiday Inn Motel chain and went to that city with that
understanding.

HO 1293-PC met MARCELLO and his attorney, BOB
ANDREWS, a young white male attorney from Florida. MARCELLO
Claimed he was investing Teamsters Union funds and made an
offer of $850,000 for the motel, furnishing her with $100 ,000
earnest money which she brought back to the owner at Bay City.
At this point, the owner decided he did not desire: to sell
the motel and refused to discuss any of the terms with her.

zs HO 1293-PC stated that, while in New Orleans, she
stayed at the Town and Country Motel and was taken to
Lafayette, Louisiana by MARCELLO to meet a realtor who was
supposed to handle future dealings the two would have. This
Lafayette realtor was unavailable, and HO 1293-PC does. not

. recall bis name or the location of his office, which she

described as a small "two by four rathole." HO 1293-PC has
no further information regarding the possible sale of the
Oasis and refused to deal with the owner in view of his past
activities.

HO 1293-PC further stated that CARLOS MARCELLO is

. attempting to negotiate for the purchase of 116 acre parcel

of land in Houston, Texas, commonly known as Golfcrest Country

Club, and recently contacted HO 1293~PC through HALFEN in

regard to the purchase of a 16 acre parcel of land in Friendswood,

Texas, a suburb of Houston. 7

HG 1293-PC was requested to attend a meeting at

Orange, Texas on 12/17/68, at which the above two prospective
sales were to be discussed. HO 1293-PC advised that MOISE

uw
COVER PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 38



NO 92-36
JCM - smj

SIMON was supposed to attend the meeting; however, as of noon,
12/17/68, he was still in Bay City, Texas. HALFEN did travel
to Orange to attend the meeting. HO 1293-PC had no knowledge
of the location of the meeting or who would be in attendance;
however, HALFEN did tell her that he would see her on 12/23/68.

By communication dated 12/31/68, the Jackson Division
furnished the following information:

On 12/22/68, and 12/24/68, Attorney FRANK E.
SHANAHAN, JR., Vicksburg, Mississippi (who requested that
his identity be protected), advised SA JACK G. WILSON that
he had heard from a source, who is in & position to be
knowledgeable concerning such matters, that one of CARLOS
MARCELLO's lieutenants from the Gulf Coast of Mississippi,
probably Gulfport, Mississippi, had been “in Vicksburg,
Mississippi on 12/19/68 and 12/20/68, attempting to arrange
things so the town could be opened up to prostitution and
extensive gambling activities. Attorney SHANAHAN was unable
to find out what this individual's name was, other than
possibly GUISSIPPL (phonetic) or COSANDRA (phonetic).

MARCELLO's Lieutenant is supposed to have arranged
through JOHN E. ELLIS, recently-elected District Attorney,
Sheriff PAUL L. BARRETT of Warren County, Mississippi, Chief
of Police MARION BROWN, and Detective Captain ROY REDDITT
of the Vicksburg, Mississippi 'Police Department, to place
prostitutes at the Holiday Inn, the Magnolia Motel, and the
Dowatowner, all of Vicksburg. In addition, T. DB. FARRIS,

T. D.’s Place, China Street, ‘would be given permission

and the backing to operate a numbers, game at his lounge.
BERNIE BIERMAN was allegedly offered the job of strongarm

man to keep any dissenting elements in line; however, BIERMAN
allegedly refused the offer. BIERMAN was to have his existing
debts liquidated, which amounted to approximately $200,000,

in return for his services.

vv
COVER PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 39


NO 92-36
ICM ~ smj

Approximately two months ago, an unidentified

gambler from the Guif Coast is supposed to have offered

an ex-gambler, who now resides in Vicksburg, Mississippi,

$10,000 if the Vicksburg man would go into business with him

and set up a lay-off operation for the Gulf Coast gamblers.

The Vicksburg man is supposed to have turned down the offer,
—— claiming that he is now too. old -to get involved in this.

type of an operation.

Attorney SHANAHAN also advised that he has been
told that JOHN ELLIS and other members of his family, also
attorneys, represent a financial syndicate that is backed
by unknown persons in Cleveland, Ohio, whose principal
interest is in real estate. SHANAHAN advised that he
considered it strange that a financial syndicate would
operate through young lawyers with limited experience since
graduating from law school, rather than through one of the
established and legitimate banks.

Attorney SHANAHAN advised that he believes his
information has been supported in part as, after having
learned of the above, he talked to one KAY KING who is now
a clerk at the Downtowner Motel. KING indicated that she
was going to leave town, taking a two-week vacation to
Acapulco, Mexico and that she was thereafter going to New
Orleans, Louisiana, where she was going to get a setup at
an unspecified lounges where she anticipated making $400 per
week, SHANAHAN was of the opinion that KING would be
involved in gambling and/or prostitution,

The Houston Division advised on 1/15/69, they were
maintaining contact with HO 1293-PC in a further attempt to
identify the location of the alleged meeting attended by
MARCELLO on 12/17/68,

ww
COVER PAGE

Docld: 32577900 Page 40


Wir: POL advised that, according to
ét informa on, ane meeting on 1/2/69, was at

Mr. POL advised that: Delta-Wye ©
reét +e nach Mississipp# ;

wou a be fe at

, o*. arding a ..
cotitract to any organization that is involVed with the ined lt

element.

: By Goaniiudention dated 2/3/69, thé New York. Division
advised as follow ee

Orleans sixty

i.
CASONE: RAYMOND

r

DocId:32577900 Page 41 7 ‘


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

CASONE drove them directly to the Town and Country
Motel in New Orleans and there left them in the automobile ©
and entered’ the motel. Shortly thereafter, CASONE came back
to the car and told them they had an appointment with CARLOS
MARCELLO for the next afternoon. They then had lunch in the
New Orleans area and then drove to Gulfport, Mississippi,
where CASONE checked them into the Admiral Benbow Motor
Inn. CASONE stayed with them the rest of the evening, which
included the "Trophy Room" of the Broadwater Hotel, which
RAYMOND advised CASONE seemed to be quite well known at.

During the course of the evening, RAYMOND gradually
built a cover story for himself -with CASONE indicating to
CASONE that he was a wealthy financier currently out of
Chicago who had excellent banking connections in Miami, Nassau,
Bahamas, Switzerland, and Montreal. In turn, CASONE advised
that he was the former "boss" of Memphis and was very strong
in the Gulfport and New Orleans areas, as well as being a
“dear friend" of CARLOS MARCELLO. Both RAYMOND and NETZEL
noted that, at all times, CASONE carried a gun with him.

In discussion, he continually mentioned various
political figures he was acquainted with and indicated he was
currently operating in real estate. Specifically, RAYMOND
indicated to CASONE that his intention in meeting MARCELLO
was that he desired to put up a major resort hotel in Nassau,
Bahamas similar to Paradise Island. He advised that he
specifically wanted MARCELLO's cooperation in handling the
gambling casino at this proposed hotel. In this connection,
RAYMOND indicated to CASONE that he had an "in" with the
Bahamian Government to obtain a license for gambling.

! During the discussion concerning financing for
this projedt, RAYMOND indicated that major loans would have
to be made/ and that some collateral might be needed to finance
these loans. CASONE indicated to RAYMOND and NETZEL that this
would be no problem at all, that he or MARCELLO would have

BBB.
COVER PAGE

DocId: 32577900 Page 42 BEReenrn


J

NO 92-36
ICH - smj

acsess to any type of collateral necessary. The inference
was clear to both NETZEL and RAYMOND that CASONE was referring
to illegal collateral, either spurious or stolen.

The following morning CASONE woke them early at
7:00 AM. They then had breakfast and then drove to friends
of CASONE'’s named BETTY and BILL FLANAGAN, who are in the
real estate business in Gulfport. They then drove to New
Orleans and the Town and Country Motel. They went directly
to the rear office of CARLOS MARCELLO but, after waiting a
few moments, decided to have lunch. While they were eating
lunch, the telephone rang in the restaurant summoning them
to MARCELLO’s office. As they entered MARCELLO's office,
they noted that he was seated behind a large desk which had
the initials CM.

CASONE immediately became very subservient and
sat on the edge of his chair throughout the discussion.

RAYMOND was immediately introduced by CASONE as
RGGO, and MARCELLO advised RAYMOND to call him CARLOS.
RAYMOND then proceeded for about 20 minutes to lay out his
plans for a proposed resort hotel in the Bahamas. Near the
end of his discussion, he indicated that he intended to have
the gambling casino on the top of the hotel, which would
afford a panoramic view. At this point, MARCELLO jumped
into the conversation and advised that this would not be a
workable /plan. He advised that the casino must be on the
ground floor, as the wives returning in the evening with
their husbands would never let them get up to the gambling
casino. He advised they would also have to consider carefully
how many stories the casino would have depending on building
costs in the Bahamas. He stated it would also be more
profitable to increase the number of rooms that RAYMOND
intended from 250 to 400 or 500.

MARCELLO pointed out that he has approximately

100 reoms at his motel and /could almost run the motel as
cheaply with double that, shanber. MARCELLO also disagreed

ccc
COVER PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 43


-MARCELLO then went into the gambling end and advised
be would Completely handle all arrangements , including
obtaining and financing the gambling equipment and all of the
gambling personnel needed. He advised that he had access to
Lists of gamblers throughout the country, could immediately
check on their credit with one phone call, and could arrange 73
needed gambling junkets, He asked RAYMOND whether or not he CQ
had the land available, and RAYMOND indicated he did. He aiso \,
asked RAYMOND whether or not he could obtain adequate financing,
and again RAYMOND indicated he Probably could, \

men go with RAYMOND to the Bahamas so that they could "clock"
the take at Paradise Island, He indicated he would like to
have this done in the next week or two.

After about 45 minutes of discussion, the conference
ended, and RAYMOND and NETZEL left the office, CASONE Staying
for a few Minutes. When CASONE came out, he seemed to NETZEL
and RAYMOND "on top of the world.” They had noted that, prior
to going into the office, he was Somewhat uneasy. :

It was NETZEL's Opinion that RAYMOND had completely
impressed both CASONE and MARCELLO with his ability to Perform.

That evening CASONE, NETZEL, RAYMOND, and three girls
went out. One of their dates was MARCELLO's Secretary, DOTTY,

- RAYMOND continued with his cover as that of a big
financier ana Spender and, after they had been drinking for
Some time, invited them all to go to Nassau that night. The
following morning he did, in fact, fly them to Nassau, where
they stayed Several days at Paradise Island, During the course

DDD ‘
COVER PAGE ;

DocId:32577900 Page 44


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

of this stay, CASONE spoke with the “pit boss" and several
officials of the casino. He then told RAYMOND that the

casino was netting $30,000,000 a year, of which $10 ,000 ,000 was
being "skimmed."

RAYMOND then flew the party by chartered airplane
to the Florida Keys, where he advised them his yacht would
pick them up. RAYMOND advised he actually does have a yacht
but that the water was too rough for the vessel to come from
Miami to the Keys. RAYMOND stated there they parted, CASONE -
returning to the New Orleans area, and he and NETZEL flying |
to New York.

While NETZEL and RAYMOND were being interviewed in \
New York, CASONE telephoned them and advised on his return
he had gone to see MARCELLO again and told him what he had
found out about the take in Paradise Island. They advised
that CASONE was most intent on progressing the “deal."

RAYMOND advised that, in regards to his taking a
MARCELLO representative to the Bahamas to "clock" the count,
he thought he would advise MARCELLO and CASONE that he was too
tied up in financial affairs and would request MARCELLO to
send his own man over alone.

NETZEL advised he would have to immediately return
to Chicago, as he was advised by his wife that his daughter
had fallen and suffered a concussion.

Both RAYMOND and NETZEL were questioned concerning
@ possible violation in this scheme, and they both indicated
that they were sure that MARCELLO or CASGNE or together would
offer fraudulent securities if and when the occ4sion arose to
finance the hotel.

NETZEL again reiterated the fact that RAYMOND was
in "solid" with both CASONE and MARCELLO as a result of their
trip.

EEE
COVER PAGE \

DocId:32577900 Page 45 : I


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

physically observed on 2/4/69 and 2/5/69, by SA JOHN A.
AMBLER in Tampa, and TP 120-C has advised that TRAFFICANTE
and his wife departed Tampa during the afternoon of 2/5/69,
travelling via automobile to Miami.

GGG
COVER PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 46


«DAB: das : i
Bg
ADMINISTRATIVE
ADMINISTRATIVE

are : The following investigation was conducted by SA
oe DAVID A. BARCLAY:

2 advised SA DAVID A.
y two months

n New Orleans.
her had been
planning to

he doubted

: On January 21,-1969, SA 775-c-7
A “BARCLAY that he asked’ MORRIS JAFFE approx
rs. ago how he was getting along with tha "Mat
Informant said’ JAFFE told him that nothing furt
developed regarai g the shopping center ne
build in ti w Op
very much if the
JAFFE as JAFFE is too talk,
bably see JAFFE at di rsday this week end if
the opportunity presents itself, he will ask JAFFE ifia

thing further has developed in vegard to his contacts wi-th
CARLOS MARCELLO regarding the building of the shopping center

in New Orleans,

:

On, Pebruary il, 1969, sa 775-C-TE advis
BARCLAY he has not had a chance as yet to talk to
vegarding his interest and/or association witi
in New Orleans. { 0 nt stated he is attendi
this Saturday ni we, Pebruary 15, 1969, and possibly JAFFE
will be at the dinner at ch time he will ¢ 'y to talk to
him about his assoc tion with CARLOS NARCELLO,

On March 6, 1969

ding ‘CARLOS MARCELLO;
going with MARCELLO
i TLE and
tn the Texaco O11

ih of restau:
Corporation

i with
new service s n of
stations, nts
i Special

HHH
COVER PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 47 ok


NO 92-36
JCM - smj

On January 16, 1969, JK 108-C was contacted by
SA ORVILLE R. SHOOK and advised he had no information that
CARLOS MARCELLO had been making trips to Pensacola, Florida,
and he did not know BERNIE BIERMAN.

By communication dated 3/18/69, the Houston Division
advised as follows:

HO 1293-PC advised on 3/11/69, that no further
action has been taken concerning MARCELLO'’s efforts to purchase
a motel in Bay City, Texas, nor has any attempt been made
through HO 1293-PC to purchase the 66 acre parcel of land
in Friendswood, Texas, in which MARCELLO had indicated a
prior interest.

HO 1293-PC adviséd that information had been received
from JACK HALFEN, who resides at Collegeport, Texas, that
MARCELLO is indebted to HALFEN for some past favor. HO 1293-PC
Stated that HALFEN Spends a great deal of time in HO 1293-PC's
place of business and has indicated a desire to share a part
of the office.

Iiy
COVER PAGE

DocId:32577900 Page 48 Me
