# docid-32310904

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10308-10118

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-813

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/24/1962

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

"RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/03/1998

SGI, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, B/F INT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32310904

Page

348

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTIOA

TELETYPE

Nir. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

Mir. Mohr

Mr. Oil-han

Mr. Desrad

Mr. Ecleach

Mr. EvansE

Mr. Valore

AMr.

Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Nir. Troiter.

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes_

Miss Candy-

DEFERRED

7-24-62

8-19

PM .

DIRECTOR, FBI

RARIN FORMATION CONTANED/

HEREIN 1S ?

DATEY 23-84 SPED.

fROin SAR CHICÁGO / 92-3481

1P

SAM GIANCANA, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY. GEORGE VYDRA, CITY COUNG IL-

MAN OF BERWYN, ILLINOIS, CHICAGO SUBURB WHO HAS. FURNISHED INFORMATION

IN PAST, ADVISED RECENTLY THAT HE HAS BEEN CONTACTED BY ROCKY INFELICE,

A CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF GIANCANA. INFELICE WANTED TO KNOW IF VYDRA WOULD

BE INTERESTED IN BUYING THE GUEST HOUSE, WELL KNOWN HOODLUM HANGOUT. (U

INFELICE ADVISED VYDRA THAT IN EVENT HE WOULD BE SO INTERESTED

THAT VYDRA WOULD BE ALLOWED TO RUN A GAMBLING GAME WITH CARDS AND DICE

IN THE GUEST HOUSE ON THE CONDITION THAT HE SPLIT ALL PROFITS FROM THE

GAMES ON A FIFTY FIFTY BASIS WITH INFELICE AND, HIS ASSOCIATES. (U)

INFELICE INDICATED TO VYDRA THAT HE AND HIS ASSOCIATES DESIRE I

SELL THE GUEST HOUSE FOR THE REASON THAI THE. FACT THAT IT IS A HOODLUM

HANGOUT IS NOW TOO WELL KNOWN TO LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES: HE TOLD

VY DRA

THAT IT WOULD TAKE SIXTY FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS TO SWING THE DEAL.

VYDRA • IS CONSIDERING AND WILL REMAIN

IN CONTACT WITH THIS OFFIEEIN

THIS

REGARD. (C)

313

REC

92-3121-81

A.

ANDL DANGEROU

-16 JUL 20 1962

END AND ACK

HOLD FOR ONE

9-23 PM OK FBI WA LVS

DocId: 32310904 Page 2

---

