# docid-32248411

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

10/14/20

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10078-10469

RECORD SERIES :

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 009418

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

HSCA

FROM:

DHORITY, C.N

TO :

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/25/1978

4

DALLAS, POLICE DEPARTMENT

DHORITY, C.N.

RUBY, JACK; BACKGROUND FAMILIARITY WITH THE

POLICE

OSWALD, LEE HARVEY; MURDER BY RUBY TRANSFER TO

COUNTY JAIL

OSWALD, LEE HARVEY; ACTIVITIES NOV 22-24, 1963;

ARREST

DOCUMENT TYPE : SUMMARY

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Open in Full

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/22/1909

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 173.

Reteaned ander bre

3025=117 95323

Jase:

52402-2523

Seppeeeter Boe e8 2332 144 130 223

v9.1

NW. 55923

DocId: 32248411

Page 1

---

## Page 2

KENNEDY

009418

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

1.

Identifying Information:

Name C. N. DHoRiT/

Address 2200 STAFFORD LA

City/State MesQuITE TexAS

Date of Birth Aub 51923

social security 453-20-1111

2. Physical Description:

Height 5-10

Weight 190

Ethnic Group

Date 5-25-78

Place D.A. OFFICE

Telephone 7498511

MOr S

Spouse

BilliE

Children &

Color Eyes Bl

Special Characteristics

Hair BlAck

3.

Personal History:

a.

Present Employment: DAllAS GUNTY DISTRiCT ATTORNEY - INVESTIGATOR

Address.

LOUSE- LaMMERGE ST

Telephone

b. Criminal Record

1. Arrests

2. Convictions

4.

Additional Personal Information:

a.

Relative (s): Name

Address

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

Investigator

NN 55923 DooId: 32248411

Date

Page 2

What Mifel

Form #4-B

---

## Page 3

KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Name C. N. Dhority

Address 2200 Stafford Lane

Mesquite, Texas

Date May 25, 1978 Time 12 noon

Place Dallas D. A. office

Interview: Mr. C. N. Dhority was interviewed this date by the

undersigned at his present place of employment (the Dallas County

District Attorney's office) where he works as an investigator.

He

retired from the Dallas Police Department in 1973 after 2? years

of service.

Mr. Dhority recalls that on the day of the assassination

of President Kennedy (11-22-63) he was on a regular day off, but

after the shooting he was recalled to duty by Captain Fritz (his

Commanding Officer) and arrived at Police Headquarters at about 2 PM

and reported in at the Homicide Office where he was given a list

of assignments relative to the investigation, many of which he

doesn't recall, but states the files at the Dallas Police Department

should reflect his activities for that day and the following days.

Mr. Dhority states that on Sunday, November 24,. 1963,

he was not assigned to any special tour of duty, but to the best of

his recollection, he came to work in the early morning. Lee Harvey

Oswald was in Captain Fritz's office and was visible to all because

the wall was part glass. Dhority recalls speaking to Oswald two

Interviewer Signature

Typed Signature

Albert Maxwell

Date transcribed

NW 55923 DocId: 32248411 Page 3

June 14, 1978

BY: ROSS Form #4-A

---

## Page 4

Dhority interview

page two.

or three times, mostly general conversation. LHO would not talk

about what he had done, but just act as though he didn't hear

what was being said to him. LHO appeared to be well schooled

in the art of interrogation.

After a while, Captain Fritz gave Dhority his assign-

ment which was to drive the car that was to transport Lee Harvey

Oswald to the County Jail.. IHO was to sit in the rear seat with

Detectives Revill and Reeves on either side of him. Captain Fritz

was to sit in the front seat, with shority driving.

• Dhority relates that he had checked the basement earlier

and found it vacant except for a few police autos, but after re-

ceiving the assignment, he returned to the basement to get the

auto in position for the transfer, and found bedlam. The area

was crowded with newsmen and cameramen and cameras and cables all

over the floor.

He

returned upstairs and told Captain Fritz,

"you wouldn't believe it." fritz said furry had said to let the

press in" and that it came from the City Manager.

Interrogation of LHO had been going on, but ceased

for the transfer. There was an old black sweater in the room

and I told IHO there have been some threats and the sweater may

change your looks. He said "yeah." Captain Fritz told me to

go down and get the car. I left, I got the car which was parked

in the basement, I pulled over, and was backing up when they came

down (Captain Fritz, LHO, Revill and Reeves.) I saw someone. dart

out of the crowd.

I thought it was a detective and stepped on

the brake to keep from hitting him. Television movies of the

NW 55923 DocId:32248411 Page

4

---

## Page 5

Dhority interview

page three

scene will show the tail light coming on when I backed the auto

up and jammed on the brakes. I heard a shot and jumped out of

the car and helped subdue him. Ruby looked up from the floor

and said to me "I'm all right, Dhority."

When time came to move Lee Harvey Oswald, Captain

Fritz ordered me to ride in the ambulance with Oswald and get a

dying declaration from him during the ride to Parkland Hospital.

Oswald did not respond to any questions. He only opened his eyes

once.

He was pronounced Dead On Arrival at Parkland Hospital.

Captain Fritz was there when we arrived and ordered me to remain

and observe the autopsy.

Mr. Dhority was questioned relative to his knowledge of

or friendship with Jack Ruby and stated he did not know Ruby.

personally, but had seen him around Dallas for years. He said

he never used Ruby for information, but knew of his reputation

for helping the police.

When questioned about reports of his (Dhority's)

having driven the armored truck, Mr. Dhority stated he did not

at any time drive the armored truck, and did not know that it

was stuck in the driveway until almost time for the Oswald trans-

feI.

NN 55923 DOOId: 32248411

Page 5

---

