AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10289-10394
RECORD_SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 145-3269-46

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: YOUNG, HOMER E.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:

DATE: 12/16/1965.

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT: CB, ASSOC, SHIPPING, PACKAGES, PORNOGRAPHY FILMS, SCHUYLER.
SIDNEY, ARREST, LA, PDT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL F NE
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW_DATE: _ 06/17/1998 UPDATE_DATE:

STATUS _ Redact
RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

Docld:32306264 Page 1



LA 145-723

aid that THURSTON told him that «

both of™h¥s~day rs (both by a former marriage, one. 16 -
and one 20 years of “agé)-had helped splice, wrap and package
his "girlie" films. JAKKI-LYNN THURSTON indicated that

she did not believe it was good’ to ‘have any of the “hard
stuff" which she referred. tovas-the "M Series" around
when the girls were there. '

freer 11K gurned over to SA YOUNG film samples
of the still ph ni¢h/ THURSTON is dealing in and

claims to \havé-md pie. , Lidms of each of the girls
which, are depicted the ts: Ohne set is of JUANITA _

DALBAPHILLIPS, akal better known @S\"Candy Bar" the popular
Dallas. prostitute and stripper who appeared in the obscene
film entitled "Smart Alec" made by WYMAN HULAN PARR in
Dallas, Texas in 1953 when PHILLIPS was 15 years of age.
Two,of the Séts‘bear: markings of "M-3" and M-5" which PCT
SKIPMORE states is ‘the “present: living room couch in THURSTON's
residence; was the couch he moved, from 2280 Cavyanaugl
Circle, Los Angeles, to his present residence, |
states that all of the models are identified by_n:
THURSTON has promised to prépare
gia complete list of his present
films;

and mail te pcr is

"hard corel pernograph
. is 6

fa >

(ft is ed that all‘of the film packages
furnished ,by PCw 8s wene previously furnished by i
Officer DON {SHATDE: €-Administrative Vice Division,
Los Angeles Police Department, which films were seized by
the Los Angeles Police Department when SIDNEY SCHUYLERGwas
arrested shipping over 600 packages on ‘October 14, 1965
from Los Angeles, California ‘to KEN LASMONDE of Minneapolis, -
Minnesota. The Los Angeles Police Department believed :
that SCHUYLER was obtaining his: films from GENE and
HAROLD :HOLDEN* and’ had not identified DANA THURSTON as being
SCHUYLER's source for such films.) _ e 7 .
PCL

a

THURSTON’ fubther confided: i E
he had acquired. some new colored ‘motion piettire ffl
which are "hard stuff"-from-a group that was recently
"burned" (arrested by the police) and they sold this to
him very cheap.

The records of DMV, Los Angeles, reflects that

California. license CYM 642 is registered to LARRY UFFER,
1427 Lyndhurst, Hacienda Heights, California.

G
COVER BAGE She WE

Docld:32306264 Page 2

x

as

