# docid-32299487

## Page 1

JFK Assassination Systeri

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10225-10267

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2717-1224

Document Information

‹ ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, ROME

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/23/1964

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32299487

Page 1

253

---

## Page 2

OF-10

CONFIDENTIAL

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

SUBJECT:

Director, FBI (92-2717)

Legat, Rome

• (92-68) (P)

ANGELO BRUNO, aka.

DATE: July 23, 1964

(SeEmA 6/20/84-55K)

classified by SPUBJAGCh

Declassify on: 09019/10/89

# 211,326

ReBulet dated 7/17/64.

Upon receipt of referenced Bureau letter on 7/22/64,

pertinent information therein was furnished to the Central

Bureau, Criminal Division, Italian National Police, Rome,

Italy. On 7/23/64 Doctor ARISTIDE MANOPULO of the

Central

Bureau advised that all entry points in Italy are under in-

structions to exclude BRUNO from Italy since he is considered

an undesirable person by the Italian Government. (G-1)(us)

There is always the possibility. that BRUNO could

pass through one of the entry points without being detected.

quest, will take steps to locate BRUNo immedlately and place

Should this occur, the Italian police, pursuant to our

him under surveillance.

We are hopeful, of course, that

this will not happen, and that the field will be able to

obtain information regarding BRUNO'S contemplated foreign

travel so that our sources can be alerted in advance. (G-/)(u)

The Rome Office is no longer in possession of copies

of BRUNO'S photograph, having distributed them to our sources

during BRUNO'S visit in Italy in 196320)

Bureau is requested to furnish several copies of

BRUNO'S photograph as well as copies of his identification

record to the Rome Office.

Pertinent developments in this matter will be re-

ported promptly to the Bureau.

CONCAINED

Alla! pro

HARDIM 16

ODAB3U258

Bureau

(1 - Foreign Liaison)

(I - New York 92-739)

REC 8

(1 - Newark 92-478)

92-22'1-1224

(/ - Miami)

1

(1 - Philadelphia 92-444)

Legat, London (166-2) (sent direct)

- Legat,

Paris

1 - Rome (92-68)

(sent direcent directy

16 JUL 30 1964

Bruno's islut. recon

TJB/hcs

(10)

1.4.

under ta 1015098 ane fastes

of Bruno firented by farm. o-?

Name, Daries o London

8/1/64-

Кол

CONFIOENTIAL

DocId: 32299487 Page 2

---

