JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency. Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10283-10426
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 92-2717-923
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: LEG, RO
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: — 04/18/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :

COMMENTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

ABR, TRA, ITALY, ASSOC, LCN, RACK ACT, SUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

03/05/1996

INDEFINITE

vO.1
Docld:32303414 Page 1°

327


CONFIBRATIAL

a
~ THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
The American Embassy
Rome, Italy i
aired BY 9p. Eta
(°) GAGA WEL
Date: April 18, 1963
To: Director, FBI (92-2717)
yf): From: Legat, Rome (92-68) (-P=)
Subject: CHANGED: Classified ’
ANTONINO ANGELO ANNALORO, Declassify :
aka Angeld™Bruno Fay i

ANTI-RACKETEERING
(00: Philadelphia)

The title is marke ( anged to record subject's
true_name as ANTONINO ANGELO ANNALORO as furnished by the . !
Ttalian National PoItée “on 4717 /63-"G-1)(u) i

ReBucab 4/11/63 which advised that a source had
said ANGELO BRUNO called his associate, PETER MAGGIO, in
Philadelphia from Italy on the evening of 4/8/63 and indi-
cated he had seen his cousin, CALOGERO SINATRA. BRUNO was
also to have called MAGGIO'S home again on Easter Sunday Ie
at 11:00 p.m, from Italy. ee

On 4/12/63 this matter was personally discussed with |

Doctor ARISTIDE MANOPULO, Central Bureau, Criminal Division, Hk L
Italian National Police, Rome, Italy, who immediately dispatched
}
t
i

a telegram to appropriate police districts in Italy to.verify
the presence in Italy of subject and his wife and determing,
details of their travel and activities while in Italy. GIN)

u
On the evening of 4/17/63 Doctor BALDESAR, ON
Bureau, Criminal Division, Italian.National Police, Rome,
advised that he had received information from Italian police
in Caltanissetta, Sicily, that ANGELO BRUNO is identical with |
ANTONINO::ANGELO ANNALORO, born 5/21/10 in Villalba,
Caltanissetta, Sicily, the son of MICHELE and VINCENZA CUMELLA a

®- puredie') Sb REC 72 =ALf7

1 - Foreign Liaison) =
{3 - Philadelplia -92- cual 16 25

- Legat, Bonn i(sent direct)

6 ApR-@#t 1963

DocId:32303414 Page 2


oa ac See eee ie

Rome 92-68 i i i ih .

According to BALDESAR; subject lodged at the Hotel. i
di Prima in Caltanissetta from 3/27/63 to 3/31/63. ‘He was’ ; y ti
‘accompanied by his wife, ASSUNTA, and had-in his possession ~
U. S. passport number C+707705. . BALDESAR stated that Italian
police in Caltanissetta were able to determine that on 3/30/63 ve
subject called a cousin (possibly CALOGERO SINATRA) in |
Vallelunga, Caltanissetta, and later with his wife visited |
a cousin, ANGELO ANNALORO, i an uncle, DAMIANO CUMELLA, in, cieereepreeiriceceneact
Villalba. tl Xe) : eet

BALDESAR advised that subject left Italy on or about

4/10/63 for Germany and from Germany was to travel to Florida.
The'method of travel for subject 1s unknown. BALDESAR further
‘ advised that according to police investigation in te anes
Caltanissetta,.subject was not in Italy during Easter, made no- j
other telephone calls, nor did he make any ‘other. known stops fi
waite in Italy, G-t)(u) ; !

For” the further information of the Bonn’ Office, re- it
ferenced’ Bureau cable advised that subject's last definitely peeisaiia]
known whereabouts was Miami, Florida, 3/31/63. [In view of Seareausiead
this information, the Rome Office recontacted BALDESAR .on . ce
4/18/63 who is rechecking with Italian police to make certain ~ +

e dates subject lodged at the Hotel di Prima are correct J Ga)(a)
Subject is an extremely important top hoodlum and is'belieVed
to be a member of the "Commission," ruling group of "LaCausa .. |. -
Nostra" and head of the Philadelphia area "Family. . : i te

This information was telephonically furnished to _ 0
the Bonn office on 4/18/63. a af i.
Bonn is requested to verify subject's présence in : a
al “ Germany. and to determine details of his ae satu activities ’

while in Germany. GO) : é a

: Rome Office is following this matter with Italian . ent
ne police and will advise Bureau and interested offices” promptly -
-upon réceipt of any information. GV(u) \ vo

oN

DocId:32303414 Page 3
