# docid-32324524

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90029-10016

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-405298-NR

Released under the John

1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NH 45907 Date:

04-11-2018

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

ARMY

USA

DATE: 01/11/1954

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

THOMAS R. PEASNER

THOMAS R. PEASNER JR.

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF USA

COMMENTS: SUMMARY;

v9.1

AH 45907

DooId: 32324524

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SUMMARY OF

TNTORMATION

Freparing Office:

10 Of S, G2, FOURTH ARMY HEADQUARIERS

SUBTECT:

Date: I1 January 19541

Dossier No.. C 8054100

1 2FE8

1954

DE

LASSI

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

Dates 7

HEREIN IS UNCLASSITIED

COUNTER INTELLIGENCE

DATE /115-94B150& MAC/1SK

JFIL

SUBJECT was captured at UndanJan,

centra

sector,

10 miles Northe

Of the 38th Parallel, on 23 apr 14312

by an unidentified CoF unit wher

The became separated from his unit.

used & CCF Safe Conduct

-Pass.

He was serving as 2nd Gunner On 2. 57mm Recoiless Rifle with Co

0, Ist Bn, 5th FICT,

24ith Inf DiV+

He was interned at Peaceful Valley

during Jun 1951, at Mining Camp from Jul 51 to Aug 51, and at Camp 1/1

from Sep 51 until his release at Munsan-ni on 16 Aug 53.

Squad leaders were picked by the Chinese, mostly for their leeier-

shir qualities.

The Chinese always called the rot:

Two prisoners appeared

sincere in their leanings toward Communism,

One was transferred to Caip Mi

#5:

The prisoners who were ill, but not sick enugh to be sent to the

hospital were placed on a special diet. All IsOw received about the

sane treatment.

Three prisoners who attempted to escape were tied

and beaten.

Another prisoner was pistol whipped by the CCT begaase

he attended a study group without permission during Feb 1953.

heard of & Marine POW who was released through UN lines. - It was rumored

that the "KKK" was formed by members of the camp to oppose the Cormunist

to dictate as upe ver nization to ben free in ine british are

had heard of an escape station being established by CIC

approximately 50 miles east of Camp #1. SUBJECT was a nember of a study

croup which was formed to study literature supplied by OCE,

The study

was confined to Irade Unions.

Attendance was voluntary: The group had

no official title and never studied politioni subjects or questions.

SU3 ECT was interrogated during the Spring of 1953, regarding an

espionage ring which the CCF suspected to exist in the camp.

was required to make and sign a statement regarding the things

is rad seen and heard about the espionage ring:

Bach company in Cann

ba! its own newspaper.

The name"

of the paper in

company was

siGlobe,li

The magraine Whew Lice" we met raberned at dong is lut

S035H01

saw about three issues of the magazine.

There appeared to

be 20

regtlar-

toccuse

istribution, and it is believed the mibliontion was discontimed

did not see an issue after the sixth weel of his imprison.

2edto

SUBJECT

net a man from the organization known as workers! run-so

not; approximately 15 miles behind the CO" lines; who was being utilizen

is orient the newly captured personnel as to what they could expect, wher

they reached their permanent

canpo

This man were a uniform saler to

line its in d.T

30/1

6: MAR 1'7 1954

MH 45907 Do0Id:32324524

Page 2

---

