# docid-32292353-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10209-10129

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-445

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: COOK, ROBERT A.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/13/1962

PAGES:

25

SUBJECTS :

GAL, RES, TRA, ASSOC, GAMBLING, B/F INT, TESUR, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES 1a, 1b

v9.1

390

---

## Page 2

CG 92-373

INFORMANTS

CG T-I is CG 6343-C*.

CG T-2 is CG 6443-C, who was contacted by SAs

WILLIAM A. MEINCKE and JOSEPH G. SHEA from

December 8, 1961,

through February 7, 1962.

CG T-6 is PCI FRANK LA CROIX, contacted by SA

ROBERT A. COOK from December 8, 1961, through February 7,

1962.

CG T-9 is CG 6343-C*.

CG T-18 is CG 6272-C, who was contacted by SA WILLIAM

F. ROEMER on December 8, 196%.

CG T-25 is CG 6486-C*.

CG T-27 is a mail cover on the mailing address of

GUS ALEX at 9353 South Spaulding, Evergreen Park, Illinois.

CG T-29 is CG 6502-C*.

on December 8, 19615 OG 8498-PC, contacted by SA ROMER

CG T-31 is CHARLES POSTL, Owner of Postl's Heälth

Club, who was contacted by SA COOK on February 7, 1962,

(upon request).

CG T-32 is CG 6502-C*.

CG T-33

is CG 6232-C, contacted by SA MEINCKE on

December 12, 1961.

CG T-34 is PCI JOSEPH T. O'HARA, JR.,

contacted

by SA VINCENT L. INSERRA on December 8, 1961.

COVER PAGE

Sealersa

---

## Page 3

CG 92-373

trouble PEARIMAN would bring his problems to KOLITZ and

KOLITZ in turn would see GUS ALEX or one of his associates

in order to get the matter straightened out. He stated that®

KOLITZ was also formerly connected with the

• Blatz Distributing

Company in Chicago and is believed to have secured this

employment because he knew GUS ALEX.

- STEVE' DE KOSTA

CG T-2

advised that STEVE DE KOSTA is a very close

friend of ALEX.

He said that DE KOSTA has taken over in the

management of My Lady Fair, a new key club on the Near North

Side of Chicago.

It is to

be noted that DE KOSTA was

reportedly the former owner of the Hucksters Club and

Old Chicago Room, which are both now out of business.

CG T-2

stated that ALEX used to frequent the Hucksters Club

but seldom visited the Old Chicago Room because it was located

in the Parkway Hotel, which is a hangout for burglars and

prostitutes and always had too much "heat" around for ALEX. *ll

CG I-was under the impression that AlEX and hair suSk were

the actual owner of the Old Chicago Room and that DE KOSTA

was just

a front for them.

HENRY SUSK

CG T-29 advised that HENRY SUSK, owner of Henry

Susk Pontiac, Chicago, is a very close friend of GUS ALEX.

He stated that he received information that SUSK was in the

company of ALEX during the latter part of January, 1962. It

is to be noted that SUSK in the past has admitted lending

ALEX automobiles to use whenever he requested one.

NICK CONTOS

Mr. NIKOLAOS NIKITAKIS Aliens Directorate,

on December 12, 1961, advised

continues to reside at 29 K Kota Street, Ney Psychico, Athens.

KONTOS is not known

n to have engaged in any contacts

or activities which would be the subject of any police action.

It is to be noted that CG T-27 has advised that ALEX has

received mail in the past from NICK CONTOS residing in

Athens, Greece.

-4 -

+097-3152-445

---

