FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Forra No. 1

THIBCASEORIGINATEDAT — NEW ORLEANS, LA. : NO rngno, 47-2183
[REPORT MADE AT DATE WHEN MADE PERIOD FOR [REPORT MADE BY » |
ANS, LA, 8/17/44 laieva
NEW OLE! . ie 8/9/44 GEORGE VW. SMITH Gis:vs
7m. CHA JOHN C. GROSST, was, bralsiistisbirntesdonine
Ghasset, Poaait AC! rossi, John Jack IMPERSONATION
\ Gee Tack Dalétaliliiens naman
. maa ee it
A 3] SYNOPSIS OF FACTS: Subject consented to trial under Federal
be 47- Fa ited Delinquency Act on 7/19/44 and
FIL admitted instant violation. Sentenced by

mn" U.S. District Judge WAYNS G. BORAH on
ek §) 8/2/44 to seven days imprisonng
record set out. Dispositions

Thue bl aah ™
Ca ges
“®

REFERENCE: Report of Special Agent GEORGE W. Ey eans,
Louisiana, dated July 7, 1944. Re
Letter Sevannah to Bureau dated July 7, ©

DETAILS: ' The title of this case is being marked changed to reflect two
: @dditéonal aliases of the Subject as shown in reference letter
ia & the Bureau. These names are JOHN JACK GROSSI and GIOVANNI

Wh

S abesks, fae
o 3 oS I.
ore /

“Bn fay Ta, 1944 Subject consented tobe |, wader the Federal
Juvenile Delinquency Aet, and in-a privat earning “before United
States District Judge WAYNE G. BORA he admitted instant violation.
This case was continued pending a report by the’ Probation Officer
upon an attempted arrangement to enrol}, he. Subject in the “OC?

a

VEE ye

veers y
ZN poner here reese aces ia
4B ae Sint RECORDED __

(COPIES OF THIS REPORT i
3 Bureau (enc) a

Pt
2 h q aaa : : 7
1 Sere orte MP Y oy otis | : : :

2 New Orleans . s Pp ; a
7 Sen = eke | i

Docld:32563727 Page 1


No 47-2185 ; i , |

ehant Marine. U.S. Probation Officer, PAUL SEIDLER, advised the
Subject was not acceptable for training in the Merchant Marine and
his case was to be referred to a local social service institute to
obtain suitable employment for the Subject in New Orleans, Judge
BORAH, on August 2, 1944 sentenced Subject to-seven days, imprisonment
as reflected on criminal Docket Number 21583, for violation Title

18, USCA, 921-929,

CRIWINAL RECORD:

The following crimina] record under FBI number 3967794 {
was received from the een

i State Police, John Jack Grossi 8/17/43 Juve. delancy retd to NJ.
ta a Philadelphia, Pa. State Police - State Home for Boys,

#C-16673 Media, Pa. Jamesburg, N.J. :

USM, Savannah,Ga Jack Dale Williams 3/30/44 wearing uniform of 5/11/44 ~~ |

: #S-1603° : U.S, Navy, STSA both ches.
: of 1940 dismisd. |

USM, New Orleans “John Caesar Grossi 7/6/44 Juv. Del, Act i
i #7368 Hecae|
i i

Ir.

| E By referenced letter dated July 7, 1944, the Savannah Field
: Division furnished this office with the pertinent. facts of Subject's q
‘fe case in that Field Division. a H
i a A @isposition sheet reflecting the disposition of instant

case is being submitted to the Bureau herewith.

ti : ENCLOSURE TO BUREAU: One Disposition Sheet.

- CLOSED =< : : i

= Cents
Bias . Yot- SS

Docld:32563727 Page 2


No | 47-2183
THE SAVANNAH FIELD DIVISION

Copies of this report are being furnished to the Savannah Field
Division for completion of their files inasmuch as they have a previous
record of the Subjects

i cee f a :

Docld:32563727 Page 3


FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Forma No, 1

ee
REPORT MADE AT DATE WHEN MADE PERIOD FOR REPORT MADE BY i |
TS Eko
NEW ORLEANS, La. 8/19/46 8/9/44 _|_GRORGE W,. Suri GiStys
ame

Giovanni Grossi, Jack Grossi, John Jack

OHANCED: JOHN CABGAR GROSSI, waa, chanacren or|game |” |
Grossi, Jack Dale Wiliians |

‘SYNOPSIS OF FACTS: Subject consented to trial under’ Federal °
Juvenile Delinqueticy Act on 7/19/44 and
admitted instant violation. Sentenced by
U.S. Distriot Judge WAYNE G. EORAH on
8/2/44 to seven daya inprisontent. Criminal

 yecord got. out. Disposition sheet subal ted,
-C«- F ’

REFERENCE: Report of Special Agent. GEORGE W, SITH, at New Orleans,
Louisiana, dated July 7, 1944.
Letter Savannah to Bureau dated July 7, 1944.

DETAILS: The. title of this case is being marked changed to reflect’ tyro
additional aliases of the Subject as shown in reference letter
to the Bureau. These nenes are JOHN TACK GROSSI and GIOVANNT
GROSSI. | not

I,
PROSECUTIVE STHPS: ’

On July 19, 1944 Subject consented to be tried undér the Federal
Juvenile Delinquency. Act, and in a private hearing before United
States District’ Judge WAYNE G. BURAH he admitted instant violation.
This case was continued pending a report by. the Probation Officer
upon an ‘attempted abrangemsnt to enroll the Subject. es the Mor~

| APPROVED AND ‘SPECIAL AGENT
DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

__ FORWARDED: IM CHARGE

(4o- Ler 9?- | F

(COPIES OF THIS REPORT:

_ New Orleans i |

: = SQN

3 Bureau (enc) sepa 4 ai & ee ai
2 Savannab ae oN ee eta ccteteeeeeeeeeneeeeeeeee
1 TEA, New Orleans ‘- i GOP 4

=. TIE7

Docld:32563727 Page 4


NO 47-2183"

chant Marine. U.S. Probation Officer, PAUL SEIDLER, advised the
Subject was not acceptable for treining in the Merchant Marine and
his case was to be referred to a local social service institute to
obtain suitable employment for the Subject in New'Orieans. Judge
BORAH, on August 2, 1944 sentenced Subject to seven days imprisonment
as reflected on Criminal Docket Number 21585, for- Violation Title
18; USCA, 921-929,

CRIMINAL RECORD:

The following criminal. record ae FBI number 3967794 |

was received from the Bureau:

State Police,
Philaéelphia,

_.Fe-16625:

afi7/s3 Juve. delancy retd to N.J.
State. Home for Boys,
. Jamesburg, N.S.

: eed ayaa a
USM, Sevannah,Ga - Jack Dale Williams 3/30/44 wearing uniform of. 5/11/44

Division furnished this o:
case in that Field Bhvist

#S-1605. U.S. Navy, SSA both ches.
2 of 1940 : dismisd.
ust, New Orleang:. John Caesar Grogat 9/6/46 Juv. Del. Act
: #7368 EE

il.

By referenced ‘Letter dated July 7, 1944, the Savanah Field
ce with-the pertinent | facts or Subject's

A “aisposition’ sheet wobiedcine the atoposttion of instant |

é -otiae is. being subsitted to the Bureau herewith.

a

Docld:32563727 Page 5

—ENCLOSURE_TO_ BUREAU: -One Disposition- Sheet.

“e CLOSED <=



“HO 47-2183

THE SAVANNAH FIELD DIVISION fe

7 Copies of this report are being furnished to- the savanneh Field
Division for completion of their files inasmuch as they have a previous
record of the Subject. serra a .

eae et a

| DocId:32563727 Page 6
