# docid-32302520

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10282-10032

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2914-136

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/11/1961

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

GM, ASSOC, INFO, GAMBLERS, ILLEGAL INCOME

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32302520

Page 1

38

---

## Page 2

FD-36• (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI.

Date:

5/11/61

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code:)

AIR TEL

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO: DIRECIOR, FBI (92-2914) (9202918)

FROM: SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-236) (92-228)

SUBJECT:

GABRIEL MANNARINO, aKa.,

SAMUEL MANNARINO; aka.,

on 5/11/61, PETER BOMBIK, 1520 Lincoln Ave., New Kensington, Pa.,

(protect per request), advised SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH; III; as

follows:

Recently, information has come to him from New Kensington

gamblers

that the Marbet Heating Co. Office, 1124 Fifth Ave.,

New Kensington, may be used as a central location for the counting

of illegal

income by the Mannarino organization.

Ostensibly ths

company is in the business of selling furnaces,

air conditioners,

siding and other home necessities, but it is believed that this

is merely a front.

This belief is intensified when it is

considered that JOHN FONTANA; long considered KELLY MANNARINO's

top lieutenant, is the store

manager.

This company is in the

process of moving from the above address to 1371 Fourth Ave.,

Arnold, Pa., about three city blocks away, and the company is

known.

. to have a warehouse in the 800 block of Sixth Ave.,

Brackenriage, Pa.

BOMBIK will be alert for the presence of the

The doo anot the pre tree an the

MANNARINOs and their underlings at this company's office and for

any activity considered inappropriate for the type of business

supposedly being conducted.

BOTH SUBJECTS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS:

Bureau

EX•139

(3 - 92-2914)

(3 - 92-2918)

2 - Pittsburgh

REG- 22

95-2914-136

{& = 92-238)

MAY 15. 1961

TGF : cmg

(8)

ZOCKIN

Approved:

56 MAY 1 8 196 decial Agent in Charge

Sent

M

Per

DocId: 32302520

Page 2

5918

UNRECORDED COOT ME 4A

---

