# docid-32286778

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10196-10054

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1006

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/27/1963

SGI, ASSOC, MISUR, MCGUIRE, PHYLLIS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286778

Page 1

53

---

## Page 2

4:4L Rey. 10-16-62)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans &

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room -

Holmes -

Gandy

Radio

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERCIT

xx Teletype

200

Andrews

URGENT

5-27-63 3:58 PM JAM

TO DIRECTOR 3 AND SAC CHICAGO

FROM SAC NEW YORK

271820

SAMUEL MO GLANCANA, AKA, AR, DO - CHICAGO.

JOHN HO TEETER (PROTECT IDENTITY) ADVISED FOLLOWING IS

- FRAMINGHAM

SCHEDULE FOR MC GUIRE SISTERS: JUNE 13 TO 22, 1963, THURSDAY

THROUGH SATURDAY "THE MONTICELLO" - FRAMINGTON, MASS.;

JUNE 24 TO 25, MONDAY - REHEARSAL "MOLLY BROWN" - PHYLLIS ONLY;

JULY 2 TO 7, TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY - WARREN, OHIO - "MOLLY

BROWN" = PHYLLIS ONLY; JULY 9 TO 14, TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY "

COLUMBUS, OHIO = "MOLLY BROWN" - PHYLLIS ONLY; JULY 30 TO 31,

TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY, OMAHA, NEBRASKA; AUGUST 1, TRAVEL TO

LAS VEGAS, NEVADA; AUGUST 6 TO SEPTEMBER 2, TUESDAY THROUGH

SUNDAY, DESERT INN, LAS VEGAS, NEVADA. (W)

ON MAY 25, 1963, PCI LOWELL WILLIAMSON TELEPHONICALLY

CONTACTED SA CHARLES G. DONNELLY AND INDICATED SOMEONE WAS

WITH HIM AND HE COULD NOT SPEAK FREELY. HE STATED GIANCANA

HAD CALLED THE PREVIOUS DAY AND WAS THEN IN THE DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC. U

CHICAGO WILL, IF NOT ALREADY DONE, PLACE STOPS WITH INS TO

BE ADVISED WHEN GIANCANA LEAVES COUNTRY. FOR INFO OF CHICAGO,

ANGELO BRUNO, IN RECENT TRIP TO SICILY, WENT AND RETURNED

THROUGH PUERTO RICO.

W.)

REG. 62

92-3/21

006

RECEIVED:

4:12 PM

d).

- JPL

28 MAY 28 1963

56JUN 51963

-=

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32286778 Page 2

---

