# docid-32626852

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER

: 176-10036-10369

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files: William H. Brubeck

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : NWJFK

FROM :

TO

TITLE : John F. Kennedy document Control Record

DATE :

PAGES : 9

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 382: Congo 12/62. Box 3.

NH 49061

DocId: 32626852

Page

---

## Page 2

TOP SECKEN/NOFORN/SENSITIVE

10P

SECRET

Basic Considerations

1. This annes is predicated on the assumption that the US u1ll

provide US military forces in support of the UNOC as an expression of

Us intent to underwrite, as necessary, UN objectives in reapect to the

the

Republic of, Congo.

2. The Us objective 1s, by insertion of US power, to iprevent an

Increase in Soviet Bloc Influence In the Congo, to reintegrate Katanga,

and to strengthen and mintain a noderate and effective government in

Leopoldville.

3. A US decision to place in the Congo now a limited and discriminate

Us military force rould support and might vell achteve this objective.

This force should be adequate both to show the UB and UN flag, and to

accomplish, suiitly and effectively, the milltary taste which night arise.

The most denanding nilitary contingency that night arise i8 1£ Ishombe vere

to olect to initiate military action. Should this contingency develop,

the UNOC should be able to achieve rapid and complete donination of the

air over the ares of operations. This would both facilitate UN ground

operations in Katanga and serve as a deterrent to outside intervention.

4. The US force deployed Into the Congo should be posttioned in the

Katanga Province where 1t vill be a positive and visible evidence to Ishombe

of the US determination to support the United Nations. Only lamina and

---

## Page 3

TOP SECRET

2*:

Eltsabethville airfields, In Katanga, have runways of sufficient lengta

to support US air operations. Of these two, Kanina is better able to

support air logistic movements because of its greater runway load capacity

and closer prosamtsity to logistic support from the Leopoldville ares.

5. The Katanga air force is estimated to consist of the following:

Jot

Vampire f1ghters

1-2

Fougs Magister fighter-trainers

l possible, as many as

6 reported

Conventional:

AI-6 trainers

7 confirmed; 10-12 possibl

Helicopters

1-2

Transports

18-27 assorted types

TAB A containe combat characteristics of combat aircraft.

COMPOSIYION OF US NILITARY ELEMENT

1. A linited US tactical air force could accomplish the shou of

force m1ss10n. Considering the Katanga air capability, such a force

could also accomplish the destruction of this capability. A composite

air strike undt of the following aircraft is considered appropriate:

8 F-100 fighter aircraft

2 RF-101 reconnaissance aircraft

Combat.characteristics of the F-100 are shown in Tab B. The personnel

involved 1n this unit will approximatee300. Proliminazy estimstes of alr

strike unit deployment requirements are at Tab c.

2

TOP SECRET

HH 49061 DooId: 32626852

Page 3

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET

2. Deployment of the Composite Air Strike Unit to the Congo w1ll

require that adequate ground control, security communications and other

support personnel be provided. The strength of such a force will approx-

mate 600 personnel. In the deployment of this force it 1s assumed that

UNOC ground forces now in the Congo will provide tactical security and

are adequate to cope with the threat posed by Katangan gendarmerie to

the air base where the US forces are deployed.

3. It 1s estimated that the total forces contemplated could be

positioned at Kamina Alr Base in the Congo within 48 to 72 hours after.

the order for their deployment 1s Issued. Total air lift requirements

for the necessary ground support personnel and equipment are estimated

to be about 40 transport aircraft. The deployment of this force can be

accompliahed via Adana, Turkey thence via Aden to Kamina or Wheelus,

Tripoll thence via Leopoldville to Kamina (Tab D).

Capab1l1ties

lo The foregoing composite air strike force, operating elther alone

or in conjunction with other Ull air forces (6 to 8 combat aircralt)

possesses the capability to accomplish the following tasks:

a To demonstrate US presence.

b. To provide limited sir defense for Kamina and Elisabethville

agalnst the Katangs a1f forces. A fully effective air defense system

would require considerable personnel and equigment not warranted under

the current situation.

TOP

3

SECHET

NN 49061 DocId: 32626852

Page 4

---

## Page 5

TOP SECRET

¿. To destroy the Katänga air force In the air and on the ground.

d. To interdict the established routes of comminication into

Elisabethvil.

e. To provide limited air cover for the movement of UN forces.

2. Il the situation should deteriorate to the degree that the

accomplishment of the UN objectives is in jeopardy, additional force

build-up could be accomplished incrementally up to the scale contemplated

In CINCIANT contingency plans. This might Include an airborne task force

of two bittle groups, portion of & Marine Division/Wing Tean, & carrier

task force, two tactical fighter squadrons, and a composite reconnaissance

squadron with an additional Aruy division and the reminder of the Marine

DivisIon/Wing Team on call.

Logistic Support

1. Support for the forces proposed for deployment vill be provided

by air lines of comminication from coNus.

2. The major logistic requirement for support of the forces 1s POL.

Direct ground refueling of eight F-100 aircraft flying tuo aorties per

day can ba accomplished by four KC-135 tanker aircraft shuttling between

Leopoldville and Kanina. Alternatively, ten C-124 sorties dally carzying

POL in druns from Leopoldville to Kamina u1l1 support these aircraft.

Command Control

Lo These operations would be conducted under the operational control

of CINCIANT, through the commander of the Us unit in the Congo. For this

purpose a us joint task force will be organized for support of the UNoC.

Air missions t1ll be flown at the request of the UNOC Coumander but the

Us commander vill decide whether to fly each mission in accordance with

1OP SECRET

HH 49061 DocId:32626852 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TOP

Junc

his terus of reference and the US-approved rules of engagement. This

would be a command control arrangement similar to the existing State-Jes

arrangements for USAF transport aircraft flying on Intra-Congo missions

in support of UNOC.

2. CINCIANT 18 developing detailed operational plans in accordance

with the broad concepts outlined herein.

. TOP SEGRET

HH 49061

DooId: 32626852

Page

6

---

## Page 7

he scums

TOP SECRET/NOFORN/SENSITIVE

TAB A

FOREIGN AIRCRAFT PERFORMANCE CHARACIERISTICS

1. FOUGA MAGISTER (FRANCE)

a. Light two seat turbojet monoplane.

b. Armament two T. Jum machine guns, four 55 1b air-tO-surface

rockets or one SS-ll rociet under each wing.

c. Speed 403-443 MPH.

do Rate of climb: 980 It per minute.

=..

Range: 575 to 735 miles.

2. VAMPIRE (BRITISH)

a. Jet fighter

b, Armament four 20mm cannon. Rocket and bonbs in addition

to cannon.

c. Speed: 538-549 MPH.

do Rate of climb: 4,500 ft per minute

6

Appendix A

TOP SECRET

49061

DocId: 32626852

Page

---

## Page 8

TOP SECRETY/NOTORN/SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET

TAB B

F-100 AIRCRAFT PEREORMANCE

1. Single-seat supersonic lighter bomber single turbojet engine.

2. Armament four 20wn cannon (200 rounds for each), 6, 000 lbs

is or napalm bombs. Twenty-four five-inch rockets. Didewinder

air-to-air rockets. Pods of 2.75" air-to-air rockets.

3. Speed: Max 822 MPH.

14, Combat radius:

515 niles.

-0b 6.2

Appendix B

TOP SECRET

14 49061

DocId: 32626852

Page

---

## Page 9

TOP SECRET/NOFORN/SENSITIVE

372011

10r SECRE

TAB C

AIRLIFT REQUIREMENIS FOR DEPLOYMINT OF A

US JOINT TASK FORCE TO THE CONGO

AIRLIFT REQUIREMUNLS

Lo: Air Force:

F-100 Personel and Airlift Requirements

16 officers

C-130

1.

150 airmen

220, 000 lbs material

22, 000 cubic feet

RI-101 TAC Recce Personnel and

A1r11ft Requirements:

6 officers

1.

30 alrmen

50, 000 lbs material

3,000 cubic feet

UHr and CCA augmentation requirements

for 24 hours operation capability:

34 personnel

65,000 Ib8

Command Element (A1rlifted u1th

TAC Reace) :

13 officers

18 alrmen

Talking Bird

2. Army Support Elements

support units

(headquarters, security, commnications,

logistical elements)

3. Total Airlift Requirements:

TOP

C-124

10

2

3

9

12

5

20

Appendix C

HH 19061 DocId:32626852 Page 9

C-235

1

1

6

8

---

## Page 10

TOP SECHET

TOP SECRET /HOFORN/SENSITIVE

TAB D

PROPOSED DEPLOYMENT CONCEPIS AND ROUTES

1. Standard TAC (F-100 and RF-101) deployment to theelus,

Ir1p0l1 or to Adan, Turkey, Other elements direct or

as required.

Primary Route - Adans to Kamina

Minimizes diplonatic ¿learance problems

More operationally supportable and adaptable

Depart Adans - EFR* - Lard Aden

Depart Aden - IFRE - land Kamina

Depart Adana - IFR (twice) - land Kamina

Secondary Route - Iripoli to Kamina

Depart Irlpoll - IFR - land Leopolaville

Depart Leopoldville - land Kamine.

Primary route is operationally feasible and may be accomplished

non-stop utilizing KC-135's.

2. It decision made to implement, entire task force can be

in place:

In 72 hours using KB-50 refueling

In 48 hours using KC-135 refueling

L10P SEGRET

Appendix C

HW 49061

DocId: 32626852

Page 10

---

