# docid-32292510-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10209-10286

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-33-367

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NO

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/11/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLING, HORSE RACES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

cas

FBI

Date 1/11/63

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTRO, FBI (62-9-33)

SAC,

NEW ORLEANS

(92-50) (P)

CRIMINAL INTELLICENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

RACE WIRE SERVICE

NEW ORLEANS FAIR GRO UNDS

On January 9, 1962, the New Orleans Police Department,

with local search warrants,

entered the premises of 2019, 2019%,

2021 and 2021z Fortin Street, New Orleans, and disrupted

local wire service from the New Orleans Fair Grounds. No

arrests were made, however, four telephones with illegal

extensions were confiscated from thise address@and telephone

service was removed from the residences.

A complete survey

of the telephones in the area was made by officials of the

telephone company and numerous "dead wires" were removed from

Contact with PCI RAYMOND ROLLING and PCI HOWARD

BAUSTCH on the afternoon of January ?, 1963, disclosed that

there was no wire service being received by

the local bookmakers.

On January 10, 1963, several locations where local

bookmaking flourishes were checked by Bureau Agents and it

was determined that information was being received from the

New Orleans Fair Grounds approximately 10 minutes after the

completion of the race.

FX. - 116

REG. 6

V, C- Wick

6

JOSEPH KORJENECK, New Orleans Fair

2-9-33-367

Grounds, advised

that he had received similar information and at the present

time efforts are being made to determine if some unknown

individual or individuals are walking the winner and para-

mutual odders from the track.

3-Bureau

1531 far

2-New Orleans

• JAN 14:1963

RLK: gas

(5)

Approved:

62 JAN 23 1962C

Sent

M

Per

Agent in Charge

---

