# docid-32424920

## Page 1

Date

Page

08/28/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : JCS

RECORD NUMBER : 202-10001-10189

RECORDS SERIES : FOIA SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : DOC 190

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

OSD

FROM

TO

TITLE : CONSOLIDATED STATUS REPORT CARIBBEAN SURVEY GROUP 4 JAN

- 9 MAR

DATE: 03/13/62

PAGES

: 4

SUBJECTS : MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1C, 4

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/30/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Reviewed by JCS, OSD, CIA State.

NO JOINT STAFF OBJEGTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

REQUIRES CONCURRENCE OF

CAit

BATE:

WAR

- 2016

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DooId:32424920 Page 1

---

## Page 2

TOP SECRET SPECIAL HANDLINGS

NOFORN

Task 31- DOD Policy for Sapport. of CIA and State -

completed and approved by the

JCS on 23 February.

by the Charman, JCS,

27 February, and by the DepSecDe?

on 28 February.

Letters were dispatched by the Secretary

of Defense to the Secretary of State, the Director, Central

Intelligence Agency,

and the Director, US Information

Agency, stating that DOD would support fully on a high

priority basis, requests for assistance received in writing

and containing

sufficient information to permit a determina-

stion of the equipment best suited for accomplishment of the

mission.

Stole

LAT

LAI

Florida completed.

DOD provided 25

supervisors in two increments in close coordination with

Final increment completed CIA orientation and training

course on 8 March and began infiltration into Miami area,

and Center Fully operational, 15 March 1962.

All personnel scheduled to be on board on 14 March

Task 32 - Defense to submit a plan for special operation.

use of Cubans enlisted in the US Armed Forces.

Recommendation

that geographic restrictions on use of. Cubans now in, or to

be taken into, US Armed Forces forwarded by JCS to the Dep

Plan for use of these Cubans, under the assumption

Chat the restrictive policy would be changed was also approved

by JCS on 8 March and forwarded to the Chief of Operations,

Cuba Project, on 9 March 1962.

h. Task 33 a - Prayers for Cuba by Cubans in US Armed

Forces - completed 2 February.

Task as assigned visualized

prayers being offered for Cuba by Chaplains In US Armed

Forces units having Cubans enlisted with photographs being

made of Cuban soldiers at prayers for publielty purposes.

On recommendation of the JCS, no further action was taken

by the Chief of Operations.

Task 33 b - Plan for Incapacitation of Sugar Workers -

completed 2 February.

Task as assigned was to develop a

Ancapacitating large segmen

of the sugar workers (Be

coverteuse of Bior CN agents Study revealed tre

dea infeasible and it was can

Task 33 c

for a C&D Air-Sea exercise in the

Iv1/-

or Cuba

Task 33d -

Alternate per or eD exeroise

ians prepared üsing con

scheduled exercises as

sed nilitary cal exescise

Both plans approved by

JCS on 16 February, however,

Fantage ous

position co

Plan 33 c noted as opposed to

Lements of

nisi

Interoes

in the

less desirable alternati

warded

to the Chiet of Operations, Casa Project,

February with JCS recommendation that inly Plan 33 c be

considered for ultimate possible execution.

3: On 12 February,

General Fansdale nequested a survey and

evaluation of DOD Psychological

in the Caribbean

and a plan for Improving their use. By proper sanitization

of the request, the Joint Staff was requested

study with a deadilne date of 10 Marcha

The Joint Stard

response was received on March and the document is now beirg

studied with a view of responding to General Lansdale by

15 March 1962.

2

DooId: 32424920 Page 2

TAN

---

## Page 3

MULHOM

TUr StUKEI SPECIAL HANDLIRS 2NOFORN

12,4

[АД

71

4. Additional actions to achleve the objective of the CSo,

but not directly associated with any assigned task which have

been accomplished to date include:

a. Preparation of detailed initial Essential Elements of

Information (BEI) required for planning.

These BEI were

levied on the Intelligence Community through the Director,

Defense Intelligence Agency, on 15 February:

responses specifically Identified with the EEl were

received, 28 February 1962.

b. Preparation of a secure room in the JCS Restricted

area for use as a Special Operation Room for the CSG.

This room was completed on 23 February and is now available

for such use as the CSG may desire to make of, 1t.

c. On 22 February, received a reques

Avon Park Bombing Range, a USAF facilit

from CIA for use of

use as an exercise area for training agents.

Morida, for

Request waS

started, approved by the JCS on 7 March,

to the

DepSecDef on 7 March for policy approval, signed by the

DepSecDef on 9 March, and CIA notified of approval on

March, provided it was National policy to train cubans

on US military bases.

d. This office has received and processed several other

requests from CIA involving personnel, equipment and

facilitles of a minor nature.

All specific CIA requests to

date have been handled expeditiously by the Military Services.

e. Began preparation of a Civil Affairs/Military Govern-

ment Plan for implementation on order.

Also, a Communications

lan, in support of the CA/MIG Plan based on the assumptio

nat existing communication tacilities would be destroye

or Inoperable.

Target date for completion, 15 March 1962.

f. Requested the Chief of Operations to levy a requirement

on CIA for preparation of an estimate of the hostile resistanc

other than organized military forces which might be expected

if military operations were conducted in Cuba and of the

results of a truly free election if such were held.

Reviewed and commented informally on the Interrogation

a Joint CIA-DOD-State project, hardled by

Purpose of this Guide 1s to provide interrogators at Opa

Locka with a starting point when interviewing refugees

processed through the CAC.

This Guide will be revised

monthly or as found recessary by experience.

CIA submitted a request to DCD on 5 March 1962 for

the

Por certain personnel,

supplies, equipment,

3201109/52

and bases including, but not linited

to, alporaft,

submarines and landing ships dock (LSD's), plus the

of US Armed Forces to furnish Air and Sea

Cover for CIA

sponsored activities.

The National polley decisions

Involved

cerning the execution of this task are as

follows:

US Government vill

nether a polzoy of non-attributability to tre

apply to all projects in connection

with the activities of the CSG.

(2) Whether US bases and facilities should be utilized

for the training of Cuban refugees.

TOP SEEDET Torna.

DocId: 32424920 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET SPECIAL HANDLIN J= NOFORN

1, 3)

2, 4, 5

State

ТА 12,4

(3) Whether US Armed Forces

personnel will be enployed

in projects connected with the activitles of the CSo

(4) Whether, If employed, US Armed Forces personnel

w111

be non-attributable to the US Armed Forces.

(5) Whether US Armed Forces personnel will be employed

within territorial boundaries of Cuba.

Lo) Whether overflights of Cuba for purposes of

resupply, leaflet drops and diversion will be permitted.

0) whether

use of Guantanamo as a base for agent

ck fl1ghts and black broadcasts will be

ruitted.

Whether use of British-controlled and other

re 1gn

for advance staging areas will be permitted.

On 7 March, received request from CIA for a Navy

der, experienced in small boat operations for

permanent duty assignment.

On 8 March, CNO approved request

and directed Navy Bureau of Personnel to procure

a properly qualified officer to CIA without delay

1,314

military intervention

in Cuban This document will be submitted to the DepSecDet

tor al

yal today and forwarded to the Chief of Operations,

FO

Cuba Project, 1f approved.

k. This office has undertaken, Jointly with State,

preparation of a proposed basis for the establishment of

policy: for the use of US military force in the Cuba Project.

Proposed drafts are under staff consideration in both

Departments.

Мінти

WILLIAM H. CRAIS

Brig General, USA

DOD/JCS Representatire

Caribbean Survey Group

DocId: 32424920

Page 4

TAN APART

---

## Page 5

[AI

DocId:32424920

Page 5

TOP SECRET

SPECIAL HANDLINGS

NOFORN

Stole

Task 31'- DOD Policy for Sépport. of CIA and State

completed and

approved by

the JCS on 23 February.

by the Chairman,.

27 February, and by

on 28 February.

Letters were dispatched by the Secretary

of Defense to

Secretary of State,

the Director, Central

Intelligence Agency,

and the Director,

US Information

stating that DOD would support fully on a nigh

priority basis, requests for assistance received in writing

and containing

sufficient information to permit a determina

the equipment best suited for accomplishment of the

f. Task 31 (1) - DOD Support for Caribbean Adnission

Center, Opa Locka, Florida

- completed.

DOD provided 25

military personnel as interrogators,

report writers and

supervisors in two increments

in close

coordination with

Final Increment completed CIA orientation and training

course on 8 March and began infiltration into Miami area,

All personnel scheduled to be on board on 14 March

and Center fully operational, 15 March 1962.

5. Task 32 - Defense to submit a plan for special operation.

of Cubans enlisted in the US Armed Forces.

Recommendation

that geographic restrictions on use of Cubans now in,

be taken into,

US Armed Forces forwarded by JCS to the Dep

for use of these Cubans, under the assumption

that the restrictive policy would be

changed was also approved

by JCS on 8 March and forwarded to the Chief of Operations,

Cuba Project, on 9 March 1962.

h. Task 33 a - Prayers for Cuba by Cubans In US Armed

Forces - completed 2 February.

Task as assigned visualized

prayers being offered for Cuba by Chaplains in US Armed

Forces units having Cubans enlisted with photographs being

made of Cuban soldiers at prayers for publicity purposes.

On recommendation of the JCS, no further action was taken

by the Chief of Operations.

Task 33 % - Plan for Incapacitation of Sugar Workers

completed 2 February.

Task

as assigned was to develop a

plan

Incapacitating lanse segme

of the sugar workers wri

by th

Study revealed tre

Idea

tr.

[A]

Task 33d -

Alternate plan den can exesses l

schedured

Both

plans

L0 Peo

noweve

dvantagesus

exercises a

approved

position

Plan 33 c noted as

opposed

dements

In the

less

desirable alternative

212: 33 d.

Plans

warded to the Chief of

Ocerations,

Coca

Project,

February with JCS

recommerdatien

Inly

Piar

33

cce

considered

for ultimate

poasible execution.

Ceneral Lansdais

requested

evaluation

and a plan

DOD Psychological

2702

their use.

By proper

the Joint Staff was requested

tine

study with a deadline date

10 Maron.

The Joint Start

the document

being

studied with

view of responding to General Lansdale by

2

Tan

OFAnFT

LAIN

MIAT

---

## Page 6

IUr DEUREI LSPECIAL HANDLIRS

MULION

/NOFORN

12,4

4. Additional actions to achieve the objective of the CSG,

but not directly associated with any assigned task which have

been accomplished to date include:

a. Preparation of detailed initial Essential Elements of

Information (BEI) required for planning.

These EEI were

levied on the Intelligence Community through the Director,

Defense Intelligence Agency, on 15 February.

responses specifically identified with the BEd were

received, 28 February 1962.

b. Preparation of a secure room in the JCS Restricted

area for use as a Special Operation Room for the CSG.

This room was completed on 23 February and is now available.

for such use as the CSG may desire to make of 1t.

on 22 February, received a reques

Avon Park Bombing Range, a USAF rac1110

from CIA for use of

Florida, for

for training agents

Request was

to the

DepSecDef on 7 March for policy approval,

signed by the

DepSecDef on 9 March, and CIA notified of approval on

9 March,

provided 1t

was National policy to train Cubans

on US military bases.

d. This office has received and processed several other

requests from CIA involving personnel, equipment and

facilities of a minor nature.

All: specific CIA

requests to

date have been handled expeditiously by the Military Services.

e. Began preparation of a Civil Affairs/M1l1tary Govern-

Plan for implementation on order.

Also, a Communications

Plan, in support of the CA/MIG Plan,

based on the assumption

that existing communication facilities would be destroyed

or Inoperable.

Target date for completion, 15 March 1962.

f. Requested the Chief of Operations to levy a requirement

on CIA for preparation of an estimate of the hostile resistanc

other than organized military forces which might be expected

1f military operations were conducted in Cuba and of the

results of

"a truly free election if such were held.

Reviewed and commented informally on the Interrogation

a Joint CIA-DOD-State project, handled by CiA.

Purpose of this Guide 1s to provide Interrogators at Oça

Locka with a starting point when interviewing refugees

processed through the CAC.

This Guide will be revised

monthly or as found recessary by experience.

[AI

thether a policy of nor-attributability to the

US Government

will apply to all projects in connection

with the activities of the CSG.

(2) Whether US bases and facilities should be utilized

for the training of Cuban refugees.

3

DocId: 32424920 Page 6

TOP SFERET FEDERAT

Maint

---

## Page 7

TOP SECRET SPECIAL HANDLIES < NOFORN

1,34

(3) whether US Armed Forces personnel will be employed

on projects connected with the activitles of

the CSG.

(4) Nhether;

1f employed, US

Armed Forces personnel

will be non-attributable to

the

US Armed Forces.

•(5) Whether US Armed Forces personnel will be employed

within territorial boundaries of Cuba.

(6) Whether overflights of Cuba for purposes of

resuonly, leaflet drops and diversion will be permitted.

CAT

State

1,2, 4,5

concer

CAI 2,4%

controlled and other

peasaur auvance staging areas will be permitted

reign

1,34

J.

on 12 March, the Jes reconn

ned forwarding for plannir

purposes a preliminary

submission

used.te

or pretexts which might be

Rovide Justification for

milltary Intervention

In Cubas This document will be

submitted to

the DepSecDet

for al

yal today and forwarded to tre Chief of Operations,

FO

Cuba Projéct, If approved.

k. This office has undertaken Jointly with State

preparation of a proposed basis for the establishment ol

policy for the use of US military force in the Cuba Project.

Proposed drafts are under staff consideration in both

Departments.

WILLIAM H.

CRAIG

Brig General,

USA

DOD/ JCS

• Representative

Caribbean Survey Group

DocId: 32424920

Page 7

талоголе.

---

