FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

qth . O- | Ga

FBI
Date: 8/21/64

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

VL AIRTEL REGISTERED MATL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Seder ea taeetaedrec tra toretersraranegrretergeratageaystgcetatngrtapseg;atatagresyatsratstanrlsg=Sasabababssssstasangsancsatasasang’ snstatasabasgsenanatenstanstananed j ISpasipenpresstayeanest ity

TO: Director, FBI (92-2839)

FROM: SAC, Philadelphia (92-441 Sub A) (P)
JUNE

RUSSELL AT BUFALINO
AR

ReBulets 7/29 and 8/10/64,

It is to be noted that Phila. has encountered
technical difficulties in regard to PH 701-C* since its
installation, : a

SA J, ROBERT PEARCE on 8/18/64 ascertained that
the loss of volume was caused by a shortage of the installa-
tion within the Resident Agency in Wilkes-Barre. This has
been remedied and it is hoped that the quality and quantity’
of information received from this source will increase.

On 8/13/64 source furnished information that
BUFALINO was expected to be in New York on August 21.
Source also advised that BUFALINO had the feeling his
telephone was "tapped." a

On 8/18/64, after correction of installation
mentioned above, source advised BUFALINO was in ue
with one WILLIE’ (LNU). At this time BUFALINO set upd a
meet with this person for Friday morning.

On 8/21/64 source advised BUFALINO was to meet
.WILLIAM BUFALINO JR.) of Detroit, who according to PH 665-C-
TE is the son of WILLIAM BUFALINO, a Detroit attorney who
has some connection with JAMES HOFFA.

Phila. Division will continue to submit weekly
summaries,

Sf

J)
AL

- ne 22 - RF LGA

C 3--Bureau - REGISTERED MAIL’ ~~,
| ae ‘1 - Phila. pegs _ tet §F AUGIS toga
Ick, SLA: ERG © oe —
Approsetd abt: tA sent M Per

Special Agent inl@Natge

DoclId:32565014 Page 1
