# docid-32309316

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10298-10103

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

29-31889-181

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, CG

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/11/1963

2

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DooId: 32309316

Page 1

39

---

## Page 2

12/11/63

Airtel

To: BAC, Chicago (29 1999)

From:

Director, FBI

(29-31889)

JAMES RIDDLE

DOMINICK EDIARD BARTONE,

AKA. BY AL.

TRA; ITSP) ME; FBW; CONSPIRACY

(00:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach

Eváns

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter -

Tele. Room -

Holmes -

Gandy

Rebutelcall to Chicago 12/10/63.

This is to confirm instructions furnished Chicago

1n

Chicago is to contact

Department Attornay William French o& the crimina. Division, who

is in Chicago in connection with captloned matter, and arrange to

equip Robert C. Meissner with a tape recorder concealed on his

person for a contemplated meeting between Meissner and

Joseph F. Verhelle,

scheduled for 12/11/63.

This neting was

scheduled to take place in Meissner*s Chicago apartment and was

called by Verhelle to discuss ways they could: help Hosta in the

Nashville jury tampering case.

Meissner is cooperating with the Government and has

furnished considerable information he has obtained from Verhelle

relating to activities of Holta and the granting of Pension Fund

Chicago was instructed to insure that full security is

Chicago w1ll also transcribe the tapes

obtained from this recorded meeting and incorporate contents in &

letterhead memorandum suitable for dissemination to the Criminal

Division of the Department.

Appropriate copies of LIll are to be

furnished Detroit for dissemination

to Department attorneys in

that city.

1 - Dotrolt (29-1432) (Info)

REC- 48

29

251107-181

NOTE:

Memo Rosen to Belmont

dated 12/10/63; IRKseem Captioned

-as above, contained information concerning request of AAG

Miller concerning concealment of tape recorder on Meissner®

for the proposed meeting.

telephonically furnished

663, Đg sto

The above instructions were

to SAC Marlin Johnson, Chicago, at

-6:30 p.m., 12/10/63, by SA Leroy R. Kirkpatrick.

LAKE ILE

R29T

MAILED 10

6DEC

GE0 11 1960

Lis!

•MAIL ROOM

PE UNIT

COMM-FBI

DocId: 32309316

Page 2

---

