JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/5/2015

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10291-10255

HQ

97-4546-4TH NR 18

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS =
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

FBI
SAC, SJ
DIRECTOR, FBI

07/22/1963
2

MR, TRA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

06/11/1998

INDEFINITE

INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.
DocId:32307115 Page 1

31


FD-36 (Rev. 12-19-56)
es

PBI

= Date: 7/22/63

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL AIR MAIL
(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI k H
; ‘FROM: SAC, SAN JUAN ((e- iia3) ruc) Xu

perl hus toncacal(p)(U)

SP LONAGE| - AP

Re San aes 4). el to Director, 6/27/63 and Miar
airtel to Director, 7/3/63.

‘ JOSE MIGUEL, BORTELA, PSI (Under ’development), on 7/22/63
advied that .MANOLOCRAY returned to Puerto Rico on 7/18/63.

RAY stated atmeeting’ that he travelled to Europe via
Washington, D, C, and New York City, where heconferred with
exile leaders. . RAY was accompanied on trip by EMILIO GUEDES ,
JURE leader in San Juan, RAY travelled to Paris, France and

to Belgium. He met with leaders of Comite Cultura y

Libertad de Francia, a Cuban exile organization in France,

the leaders of which for the most part are exiled, journalists,”
and was soliciting their cooperation and support as Cuban
exiles. In regard to Belgium portion of trip, he neither eof

denied nor confirmed that he was in quiring concerning arms

ormation Miami, SJ 492-S, currently jin Europe

For
for recontact concerning RAY. XU)

and not availa

ORIGINAL FEED IN. wz

For ormation of the Burggu and Miami, Agents in
San Juan haz Guten, fespionacePind related matters

have been alerted concerning captioned matter and in event

/ any pertinent information is learned, it will be immediately

furnished Miami, the office. (fetes Zee to the Bureau.
CByeureaue(pM) AE CORDED” tee dye aac

Dd 3-San Juan 1-65-
= yee {G- 134-626 (1-1

SDE :vvn *)(w)
(8) BBL
S6JUL 30 63.

Apptoved:
\ Special“Agent in Charge

&

ig

LL

~2
ork

ta

€z

d ananGBAnGESsGES SRAPSESSSETeSHSTERSRERSESG#OEE

_
—

DocId:32307115 Page 2
