AGENCY:
RECORD NUMBER:
RECORD_SERIES:

_ AGENCY FILE_NUMBER:

AGENCY INFORMATION

FBI '
124-10127-10154
NY

CR 105-1303-1840

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: KRAUSS, HENRY J.
TO: SAC,NY
TITLE:
DATE: 04/22/1964
PAGES: 11
SUBJECT: PUBLICATION, L'EXPRESS, JFK ASSA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: — 11/13/1998 UPDATE DATE:
STATUS — Redact
: RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
JFK Act 6 (1)(C)
: JFK Act 6 (4)
COMMENTS:

Docld:32158404 Page 1

01/25/2001


UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

MEMORANDUM /
TO : SAC, NEW yorK (105-1308). w DATE: 4/22/64 ;
FROM : SA HENRY J, KRAUSS (#352)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

SUBJECT: YUGOSLAV UN MISSTO DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR,
: fees a 20) RELEASE OF ClA INFORMATION
: WIS DOCUMENT.
Peo sone IN THIS DOCUMENT. Kp / 1/7”

The following information was furnished by fiz 525-s* }&) 1
(protect-reliable) on the indicated dates. If Ticorporated i
in a report, it should be appropriately paraphrased when 1
necessary in order to protect theidentity of the source.

: Mn, UELCHTER (PH) contacted DRAGAN BERNARDIC and advised
him €hat/he would expect BERNARDIC and his wife at 7:00 pm
tomorrow/evening in the apartment of LSTCHTER «&) (Ul)

fios-55825 (BERNARDIC)
134-9510) (BRIDGE ) (ADM)
134-9361) (MC GOWAN) (ADM)
105-§5175 (VILOTIJEVIC)
105-51674 (ZUPAN)
105-27507 (BOZINOVIC)
105-36216 (CUCUZ, NIKOLA)
1905-36225 (CUCUZ, RUZICAY ()
105-43250 (TODOROVIC)
105-51723 (CVOROVIC)
105-51669 (LJUBIC)
105-40565 (STAJDUHAR)
105-5404 (GASPARI)
105-5952 (ZAMBELI)

PEER ERE PEP REE
pep ree reeves
Zz
x

: y
a : FILE “or

BY..B.E on giz 3/4 [SEARCHED
78 | SERIALIZED

eo
APR 23 1964
FBI—NEW YORK

SECRET

Docld:32158404 Page 2


o a)

SECRED

wy ffos-1303 Yay ) wW

(Gershn 1964 ul

It was ascertained that the Yugoslavs would have a
ship leaving the US for Belgrade about the 10th of September,
1964. It was expected that LUUBOMIR LJUBIC, Consul of the
Yugoslav Consulate, would be returning to Yugoslavia
on the ship \of September abe i

> ROB of US Mission was in contact with
DRAGAN  B. IC and they agreed to meet each other on '

Friday evening. BERNARDIC indicated that he was sorry
to hear that BLAXE was leaving. BLAKE said that he will
go to Califorhia first to visit his parents. BERNARDIC
told BLAKE that he would be.going to Belgrade shortly
for a period of 20 days, Gre trip to Belgrade by
BERNARDIC is in connection ith the recall of BERNARDIC
FOR consultations in the oy crass (8) Department from
Information as furnished by cIAY,}: &)(Y)

(Garch 12 1964 JS :

ED MC GOWAN was in contact with RADI (VILOTIJEVIC)
and advised him that today was SUSAN BRIDGE's birthday.
They exchanged greetings and then VILOTIJEVIC inquired
about PHYLLIS’ (REED). MC GOWAN indicated that she is
doing fine and they then agreed to get together in the
future. (30) (w\ ,

March 16,° 2964 J(u

It was determined that DRAGAN BERNARDIC was Sry)

fa\

for Belgrade on Thursday, March 19th at 5:00 pm.

(Harch 17, 1964 GLY

RUDI_(STAJDUHAR) was incontact with MILAN ZUPAN.
STAJDUHAR yinquired if ZUPAN had had a private conversation
last night. ZUPAN advised that he did at about 11:30 last
night and that he told me about the weather in Washington.
(this conversation may refer to the conversation ZUPAN
ad the p: ious night as reflected in the log coming from

(6 NY ua1l-8* der the date s7i760. Ge)

ft [susan GE was in contact with HANNA (LNU), BRIDGE, u
‘ asked HANNA i try to get the last two copies of the -
French pub Si

on "Lex Press" (PH) as it contains articl
Sala Sota ea

i

Docld:32158404 Page 3
