# docid-32292588-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10209-10364

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-1202

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

ROEMER, WILLIAM F.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/25/1967

9

GAL, RES, GIRL FRIEND, ACT, ASSOC, PAL, MEETINGS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

461

---

## Page 2

CG. 92-373

he is one of only two or three persons knowledgeable concerning

this information.

This informant advised SA JOHN W. ROBERTS, JR. on

to the intormant that this envelope contained well over 9100,000

and that ALex had given 1t to him with instructions to give 1t

to PHIL ALDERISIO. BIEBER then contacted ALDERISIO and at 3:00

p.m. on August 28, 1967, ALDERISIO picked this envelope up from

the offices of BIEBER.

Neither the informant nor BIEBER knew

the purpose for which this money was to be used or why it was

payed.

CG 6588-C-TE advised SA ROBERTS on September 20, 1967,

that on September 17, 1967, ALEX instructed Chicago hoodlum at-

torney BIEBER to make an arrangement so he could again enter

Switzerland, it being noted that ALEX has been banned by the

Swiss Government from entering Switzerland for a period of ten

entering Switzerland

years. Informant advised that BIEBER thereupon contacted an

unknown official, apparently in the Swiss Consulate in Chicago.

ALEX, BIEBER and

this official then met in BIEBER's office on

September 18, 1967. At this time the official telephonically

contacted another official of the Swiss Government,

possibly

in Washington, D.C., in this regard. The informant

was unable

to furnish any further details.

INFORMANTS

CG T-I is MINUEL "MARTY" MARTIN, Garage Manager,

1150 Lake Shore Drive, Chicago (deemed advisable).

CG T-2 is Miss KRAMER, Office Secretary, 1150 Lake

Shore Drive, (deemed advisable).

CG T-3 is HOWARD DINSMORE, Doorman, 1150

Lake Shore

Drive (deemed advisable).

CG T-4 is MIKE DETELBACH, Desk Clerk, 1150 Lake Shore

Drive (deemed advisable).

All of these informants contacted on September 27,

1967 and October 17, 1967 to SA WILLIAM E. ROEMER.

- B-

COVER PAGE

993-3183-1202

---

## Page 3

CG 92-373

CG T-5 is CG 6614-C contacted on 10/17/67 by

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER.

CG T-6 is CG 6343-C* contacted on 10/17/67 by

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER.

CG T-T is PCI RUDY DROLD contacted on 10/17/67 by

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER.

CG T-8 is OM 148-C-TE contacted on 9/1/67 by SA

JOHN R. ANDERSON, Omaha Division.

CG T-9 is CG 6588-C-TE contacted on 9/1/67 by SA

JOHN W. ROBERTS.

CG T-10 is CG 6690-C-TE contacted on 8/22/67 by

SA LENARD

A. WOLF.

-

-

COVER PAGE

sod-losed

---

