# docid-32568058

## Page 1

1 - Anderson

EM

MAILED 19 7

FORMATION CONTAINE

SEP 2 4 100 WHERE

IS URCLASSIFIED

SHOWN OTHERWISE

COMM-SAI

Ison

mont

per..

ch on

sad

sach:

Room

CONFIDRTITIAL

SAG, WFO (105-42974)

9/25/63

Director, FBI (005-98177)

CLASS

LOUIS HENKY

SONES

REASON-FCIM

DATE OF REVIE 9/25/82

IS - CUBA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAN /81

closed for each zecipient is one

Copy of a self.

explanatory menorandun received fron the Atonie Energy Comission

(ADC), 9/11/63 which appeare to relate to captioned subject.

ADC has advised that Paul W. Ichantel, Director,

Division of Research, would be amenableto intervler by Agents

of this Bureau concerning this matter. VIO 1s, therefore,

instructed to contact lcDaniel for full facte concerning his

meetings with Jones in Bussia, following which consideration

should be givon to setting forth a lead for Seattle to interview

Eszle l. Stevens who 1s also mentioned in the enclosed nenorandun.

In vies of possible prosecution of subject by the Department,

interview of lcDaniel should be appropriately recorded on an

XD-303 and zesults subuitted in letterhend menorandun forn

suitable for dissenination. V

1X0 specifically bear in mind that any information

indicating that subject and his wife had knowledge of curzent

U.S. travel regulations prior to leaving

would be pertinent.

Also date, place op-lho 0.9. fox Cabs

travel would be pertinent.

entry and method of

Any observations concerning subject'

attitude tovard communism, Cuba and the U.S, Government should

also be obtained in view of possibility subject's activities

may varrant his inclusion on Security Index.

Leona Schwel taer

For the information of Seattle subject and his wife,

traveled illegally to Cuba in 1961

(a State Department violation) and investigation has been

conducted in this zegard (00-IX).

advised, however.

State has previously

that no action can be taken in this matter

Burosu informants can be made

1n 0

ayaliable to testify

passport hearing.

Enclosure

ENCLOSURE

10-

2812725.

• Seatile

EX-102

E SEP 25 1963

(Enclosure)

Now

York

(105-49313) (Enclosure)

LLA:81104

(7)

3

OCT 2

1963

MAIL ROOML

TELETYPE UNIT L

CONFINE

INTIASER NOTE PAGE TWO

ASSIPTED BY SR4 ELWIUR

318

on ACCy

25 185

DocId: 32568058

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Letter to SAC, WPO

Re:

LOUIS HENRY JONES

(205-98177)

NOTE:

ABC memorandum Indicated MeDaniel, while visiting

Moscow,

talked withone Louis Jones who appears identical with

subject. Jones appeared to talk freely concerning his travel

to Cuba and communist sympathies, indicating he may be in

trouble with U.S. authorities as a result therer. l

DocId: 32568058

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONEKKNT INFORMATION SHEET (JFK MATERIALS)

Page(s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One

or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions) •

[]

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

I] Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

[]

Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

Subsection 1C

(other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[] Subsection 2

(living person who provided

confidential information)

[] subsection 3

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

[] Subsection 4

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

[] Subsection 5

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

For your information:

REFERREA

The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

+79 105-98177-25 ENCL

XXX

202

XXX

xxXX

4xxXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

DocId: 32568058

Page 3

---

## Page 4

OPTIANAL FORM NO: 10

5010-704

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM

John A. Waters, Director

Division of Security

Paul

Divisid

McDani

of kell

Director

SUBJECT:

LOUIS JONES

CONFIDENTIAL

1/10/13

DATE: SEP F

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

1963

Let WES (and)

1Ny (hel)

914/03

Excluded from automatla

downgrading and

declassification

D

SIA

VinA

Ri

Rul

During my recent visit to Moscow,

I had a talk with a young

man in the Ukraine Hotel which I think should be reported.

The young man, about 28-30 years old, and I were having

coffee at the

same table about 11:30 p.m.

He introduced

himself as Louis Jones,

a former psychology student at

Columbla University, University of Chicago, and the Univer

sity of Michigan.

He told me that his current address

was:

Alende Tercera #1804

e/18y20

Miramar, Habana, Cuba

Mr. Jones seemed

to be accompanied on his trip to Moscow

by several

Spanish speaking individuals who, from time to

time, passed by our table and exchanged friendly greetings

with Jones.

Jones told me that he and his wife had gone to Cuba about

two years ago "on

a vacation" and that they had been so

"impressed by the revolution" that they had decided to

stay in Cuba to help in this "great cause." In response

to my question "Are you a member of the Communist Party?"

he said that he was not but that he was fully sympathetic

to the aims and goals of the Communist movement.

Jones said that 'someday" de wanted to return lo the take ne

Intervic

States to complete his college education but "that would

have to wait."

I asked him whether he anticipated havined X

any trouble with U.S. authorities If he returned from hie 1u(

adventures in Cuba.

have trouble but "that would be on the conscience ofthe U.8?1)

He said that he expected that he would

Government and not on me."

Throughout the conversation I got the impression of a very

naive young man who had fallen completely for the Communist

This material contains information allecing

105-%

tense of the Uniled Stenor wildn the

is éspionage lois Tile 18. U.SG.

ENCLOSU A

sad 704 the Ecosmisson or revelation

of wich in, uny manner lo an unauttorie

CSNFIDENTIAL porson ta probibled by low.

DocId: 32568058

Page 4

---

## Page 5

CONADENTAL

- 2.

philosophy. In this country he would be just another

student - in Cuba he seems to be riding high - has three

servants and is given "free rein" to do any research in

psychology chat he wants to do.

If you desire any further impressions about Jones, please

let me know.

Some of the discussion wich Jones was held

in the presence of Mr. Earle W/Stevens, 825 Dexter Horton

Building, Seactle 4, Washington, a tourist in the USSR.

Stevens got so disgusted with Jones that he excused him

self and left.

DocId: 32568058

Page

5

---

