# docid-32296321

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/14/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10217-10097

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-6054-136

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

1O :

TITLE :

FBI

KEHOE, JOHN F. JR.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS

12/21/1962

27

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

THE CRIMINAL COMMISSION, MEMBERS, CRIMINAL ACT,

ASSOC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact®

05/27/1998

INDEFINITE

v9.1

DocId: 32296321

Page -1 :

3

---

## Page 2

F'D-263 (Rev: +1-60)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

BOSTON

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

BOSTON

DATE

12/21/62

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

4/16/62 - 12/17/62=

REPORT MADE BY

SA JOHN F. KEHOE, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

E CRIMINAL "COMMISSION," ET AL

BUSTON FIELD DIVISION

AR - CONSPIRACY

TYPED BY

rk

REFERENCES

Report of SA JOHN B. GREENE dated 4/27/62 at Boston.

New York Airtel to Bureau dated 11/13/62.

P

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU (2)

Original and one copy of a letterhead memorandum,

dated as above in captioned matter, characterizing informants

mentioned in this report.

A

COVER

PAGE

APPROVER 124

COPIES MADE,,

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-6054-136

3 - Bureau (92-6054) (Enc

2 - New York (92-2307)

3 - Boston: (92-605)

REC- 41

EX 105

'r.

DISSEMINATION RECORD.

OF ATTACHED REFORT

AGENCY..

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. ...

EC w-15

HOW FWD: :

BY

67 MAR 2 0 1963

10 aX:

NOTATIONS

• D.S: ELiCANNENT PRINTING OFFICE

16-76324-1

DocId: 32296321

Page 2

---

## Page 3

BS

92-605

LEADS

THE BOSTON DIVISION:

AT BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS:

Will closely follow, evaluate and disseminate

to the Bureau and the New York Office all information

reflecting on the

INFORMANTS

BS T-1

BS T-2

BS T-3

BS 9-4

BS T-5

Location of Information

BS 812-0-

BS 837-0*

BS 137-1418-86

BS

92-118 Sub 4

Former PCI

BS 137-1246-8

DOMINIC C. CIAMBELLI,

aka RED HOGAN

BS 652-C

BS

BS 679-0

BS

92-118-Sub 4 serial 77

92-118-1462, page 7

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed and I symbols were utilized only in those

instances where the identities of the sources must be

concealed.

+ B* -

COVER. - PAGE

JiJ- 1000

DocId: 32296321

Page .3

---

## Page 4

BS

92-605

Springfield, Massachusetts:

NICHOLAS CAMEROTA

SALVATORE CUFARI

ALVARO LANZAHIA

ANDREW PRADELLA

Maine:

ORLANDO NAPOLITANO

JOSEPH NAPOLITANO:

Rhode Island:

AMERICO BUCCI

FRANK FORTE

FRANK GAGLIONE

ALBERT LIPORE

WARREN PICILLO

JOSEPH PATRIARCA

LOUIS TAGLIANETTI

on May 15, 1962, BS T-3 furnished the following

information, stating that

he could prove none of it, but

what he said was based on his years of association with

JOSEPH LOMBARDI, HENRY NOYES and the rest of the Boston

Italian element.

BS T-3 stated that there was definitely an organi-

zation among the Italians and although they used him on

occasions, he never was accepted as a member because of his

drinking habits and the fact that he was continually getting

into trouble.

He stated the old group was under PHIL BUCCOLA

and consisted of JOSEPH LOMBARDI; JOSEPH BRUNO (deceased) /

TRANK CUCCHIARA; MICHAEL ROCCO; HENRY SELVITELLA, also knowI

as HENRY NOYES; BIG BOZO CORTESE (deceased); ANTHONY

SANTANIELLO (deceased); and an old individual named PEPIN®

who was connected with the American Finance Company located

on Hanover Street, Boston, Massachusetts.

DocId: 32296321 Page _4

---

