# docid-32629759

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10039

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : USAF

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Staff Message Branch Incoming Message

DATE : 2/10/1963

PAGES : 6

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 43: Cuba Cables, 1/1/63-3/14/63, folder 1

of 4. Box 1

49061

DocId: 32629759

Page

---

## Page 2

SANITIZED NeX: 01.043-5:0-2

(422)

SECRET

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

STAFF MESSAGE BRANCH

INCOMING MESSAGE

AF IN : 6139 (10 Feb 63) M/cgd

Page 1 of 6

ACTION: JOS/DIA-CIIC-12, DIA-15, NIN-17

INFO : CJCS-2, DJS-3, SJCS-3, J2-1, J3-5, J5-1, SACSA-1, NMCC-2,

NWSB-1, SEC DEF-8, WHITE HOUSE-3, RRA-1

JRG-2, JCS File-1,

ХОР-1, ХОРX-2, XPD-3, ACIC-3, SDLO-8 (96)

SMB D 079 S

CHQA527ZCJJ0648

00 RUEAHQ

DE RUEPIA 41A

RULGN-T COMPHIBGRU TWO

RUWSCR-T COMPHIBGRU THREE

0 100948Z

FM CIA WASHDC

TO RUVBCR/CG EIGHTEENTH AIRBORNE

RUCBCR/CG USA SPWARCEN FT BRAGG NC

RUCBCR/STRAC FI BRAGG

RUCCC/ARLANT FWD HOMESTEAD FLA

RUCDBG/ ACIC ST LOUIS MO

RUCDALB/ CINCONAD ENT AFB COLO

RUCDSQ/ FID WWKB DAYTON OHIO

RUCKCF/ COMPHIBGRU FOUR

RUCKHC/ CINCLANT

RUCKHC/ ANTFLT

RUCKHC/LANTINTCEN

RUCKHD/ CG FMFLANT

RUCKHF / COM PHIBLANT

RUCKUD/ COMDR KEY WEST FORCES

RUCRC/ ARLANT FT MONROE VA

RUCSBR/ SAC OFFUIT AFB OMAHA NEB

RUCSBR/544TH AEROSPACE RTECHWG OFFUTT AFB OM AHA NEB

RUCVSM/ 4D8DTH SRW, LAUGHLIN AFB,

TEXAS

RUE ADX/ COMDR TAC LAFBVA

RUEAHQ/ HQS USAF WASHDC

RUEAHQ/DIA WASHDC/ CIIC-3-A°2

RUEAHQ/DIA PROD CIR

RUEAHQ JCS/ J-2 WASHDC

RUEAJK/COM NINETEENTH AIR FORCE

RUEAJK 4444TH RIS SHAW AFB SC

RUECEM/ CMC (CODE A0-2C)

RUACW/DNI WASHDC

RUEKC/ JACE AJCC FI RITCHIE MD

RUEKC/ HQS USAK (ADV) AJCC FT RITCHIE MD

(Reproduction of this message in whole or in part is prohibited without approval of THE OFFICE OF PRIMARY INTEREST.)

SECRET

COPY NO.

FORM

AFHQ JAN 62 0-309b

PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF

THIS FORM MAY BE USED.

1N 49061 Do01d:32629759

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

STAFF MESSAGE BRANCH

INCOMING MESSAGE

AF IN: 6139 (10 Feb 63)

RUEKDL/ CINCSTRIKE MCDILL AFB FLA

RUE KM J/ JACE AIRBORNE ACDREWS AFB MD

RUEKVDA/ JACE

AFLOAT NORFOLK VA

RUEPCR/ DIRNSA

RUEPDA ACSI-IW DA WASHDC

RUHAKS/ CINCUSARPAC FORT SHAFTER HAWAII

RUHLKM/ HQ PACAF HICKAM AFB HAWAII

RUHPA/ CINCPAC

RUPB/ CINCPACFLI PEARL HARBOR HAWAII

RULBCR/ DIO 15 ND

RULGGCR/ COMNAVBASE GTMO

RULGN/ COMCAR IBSE AFRGC

RULGN/ DIO 10 ND

RULGN/ COMPHIGRU TWO

RUWDG/ COM PHIBPAC

RUWSCR/ COMPHIBGRU THREE

DA GRNC

BI

SECRET

CITE CIA-Z-284

FINAL SECTION OF IWO

LA BOCA PIER - ONE LARGE FREIGHTER, ONE SMALL

POWER BOAT DOCKED AT THE PIER. THE TWO FORWARD

HATCHES ON THE FREIGHTER ARE OPEN. FORWARD HOLD

APPEARS EMPTY, AND FIRSI LEVEL OF SECOND HOLD APPEAR:

EMPTY. THE FOURTH HATCH COVER IS OPEN AND UNLÖADING

OF 3 TRUCKS APPEARS TO BE UNDERWAY.

EQUIFMENI -- TEN CARGO TRUCKS, 2 CRANES, ONE.

BULLD'OZER: 2 SMALL TRUCKS, AND 3 PIECES OF U/I EQUIPVENT.

ONE PF AT CEMENT WHARF.

MISSION 7047, V/I, FRAMES 9, 67 IMAGE MOTION

7847, L/T, FRAMES 13, 15, 57, 58 CLEAR:

Page 2 of

(Reproduction of this message in whole or in part is prohibited without approval of THE OFFICE OF PRIMARY INTEREST.)

SECRET

COPY NO.

AFHO SON 0-309b

PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF

THIS FORM MAY BE USED.

HH 49061 DocId:32629759 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

AF IN: 6139 (10 Feb 63) STAFF MESSAGE BRANCH

INCOMING MESSAGE

7047, O/N, FRAMES 1-15, 20-42, 148-165 HAZE

MISSION 7048: L/I, FRAMES 20-22, 40, 41 CLEAR

-MILITARY ACTIVITY-

ARTEMIEA MILITARY CAMP 2251N 08248W

ENTIRE CAMP AREA NOT COVERED BY PHOTOGRAPHY;

EQUIPMENI • 28 CANVAS- COVERED I-54 TANKS,

9 CANVAS -COVERED SP GUNS - PROBABLY SU-10D,

257-MM AT GUNS, 55 EIGHI-WHEELED APCS, 3IBRDM APCS,

9 SNAPPERS, 148 CARGO TRUCKS, 22 UTILITY TRUCKS, 5

UNIDENTIFIED VEHICLES, AND 5 PROBABLE MORTARS.

PREVIOUSLY REPORTED 9-GUN AND 6-GUN AAA SITES REMAIN

OCCUPIED.

NO CHANGE IN BARRACKS AREA.

FIVA PROBABLE FROG MISSILE TRANSPORTERS, 2 PROBABLE

FROG LAUNCHERS, AND AT LEAST 4 VEHICLES IN SECURED

ARE AO:

Page 3 of 6

MISSION 7047, V/T, FRAMES 119-127, 141-147

BLURRED" IMAGE

7047, R/I, FRAMES 125-132, 144-152

BLURRED IMAGE

7047, O/N, FRAMES 96-96, 107-118

(Reproduction of this message in whole or in part is prohibited without approval of THE OFFICE OF PRIMARY INTEREST.)

SECRET

COPY NO.

AFHQ

FORM

JAN 62 0-3091

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS OF

THIS FORM MAY BE USED.

HH 49061 DocId: 32629759

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

STAFF MESSAGE BRANCH

INCOMING MESSAGE

AF IN: 6139 (10. Feb 63)

BLURRED IMAGE

7947, L/I, FRAMES 151-155

BLURRED IMAGE

MISSIGN 7048, V/I, FRAMES 44-48

Page 4 of 6

SANTIAGO DE LAS VEGAS AREA: TANK PARK 2258N 08220W :

FOUR PROBABLE FROG MISSILE TRANSPORTERS OBSERVED.

NUMEROUS

VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT LOCATED IN HEAVILY

WOODED AREA, BUT TREES PRECLUDE IDENIIFICATION AND

COUNT. ONE STORAGE AND 5 PROBABLE BARRACKS BUILDINGS

NOTED. TANK PARKING AREA IS CANVAS-COVERED.

MISSION 7047, V/T, FRAMES 113 - 114

BLURRED IMAGE

7047, R/I, FRAMES 115-119 BLURRED IMAGE

- UNIDENTIFIED ACTIVITY-

CAYO FRANCES, WI ACIIVITY 2238N D7 14W

CONSTRUCIION CONCENTRATED AT WESTERN TIP OF ISLAND.

NO OTHER ACTIVITY OBSERVED ON REMAINDER OF ISLAND.

BUILDINGS - TOTALIOF 9 THE 2 LARGER BUILDINGS ARE

STILL UNDER CONSTRUCTION, BUT THEIR FUNCTION IS

UNDETERMINED. SEVEN SMALLER BUILDING APPEAR

(Reproduction of this message in whole or in part is prohibited without approval of THE OFFICE OF PRIMARY INTEREST.)

SECRET

COPY NO.

FORM

AFHO JAN 62 0-309 b

PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF

THIS FORM MAY BE USED.

NW 49061 DocId:32629759 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

STAFF MESSAGE BRANCH

AFIN: 6139 (10 Feb 63) INCOMING MESSAGE

COMPLETE. THREE SMALL LIQUID STORAGE TACKS ARE

LOCATED IN THE BUILDING AREA.

WHARF AREA -- WHARF STILL UNDER CONSTRUCTION, BUT

UNSERVICAABLE.

OTHER CONSTRUCTION • AREA PREVIOUSLY IDENTIFIED

AS POSSIBLE BUILDING FOUNDATION IS STILL UNDER

CONSTRUCTION AND APPEARS TO BE FOOTINGS FOR AN

UNIDENTIFIED STRUCTURE. THERE ARE 30 SHALLOW

EXCAVATIONS, EACH APPROXIMATELY 30 BY 3 FEET.

THE EXCAVATIONS ARE 9 FEET APART FOR AN OVERALL

DISTANCE OF 370 FEET. FOUR EXCAVATIONS APPEAR TO

HAVE STEEL FRAVES WITHIN THEM

WITH 5 POSSIBLE FOOTING

BASES.

THE ROAD UNDER CONSTRUCTION IS BEING PAVED®

EQUIPMENT - ONE PROBABLE NAVIGATION BEACON, ONE

LIGHT AAA LOCATED ON TOP OF SMALL FLAI-ROOFED

Page 5 of 6

BUILDING, ONE BULLDOZER, ONE GENERATOR, 2 CARGO

TRUCKS - ONE ON BARGE, ONE PILE DRIVER, ONE AIR

COMPRESSOR, AND ONE CONCRETE MIXER.

VESSELS - ONE BARGE, ONE SMALL TUG, 2 SMALL POWER

BOATS, 2 DICGHYS, AND ONE SAIL BOAT. THE VESSEL

(Reproduction of this message in whole or in part is prohibited without approval of THE OFFICE OF PRIMARY INTEREST.)

SECRET

COPY NO.

AFHQ

FORM

JAN 62. 0-309b

PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF

THIS FORM MAY BE USED.

WN 49061 DocId:32629759 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CRET

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

STAFF MESSAGE BRANCH

INCOMING MESSAGE

AF IN: 6139 (10 Feb 63)

Page 6 0f. 6

PREVIOUSLY IDENTIFIED ASA GROUNDED HULK APPEARS TO

BE USED AS A BILLETING SHIP. HATCHES ARE OPEN AND A

TAR-PAPAR ROOF HAS BEEN CONSTRUCTED ON DECK HOUSE.

TWO MEN. STANDING ON DECK.

AIRCRAFI -- ONE CREEK.

PERSONNEL - APPROXIMATELY 4D, ALL AT WESTERN TIP OF ISLAND.

NO COMMUNICATIONS OR ELECTRONICS EQUIPMENT OBSERVED.

MISSION 7049, V/I: FRAMES 21-59, 93-98,

117-1191 153-2588-272-273

VI, IFRAMES 73-71, 210-211 CLEAR

O/N, FRAMES 1-15, 27-47, 53-67, 99-111

MISSION 705D, V/T, FRAMES 56-6D, 206-220,

366-370 L/I, FRAMES 58-61

RI, FRAMES 2DD-218, 362-366

O/N, FRAMES 23-28, 37-42, 95-118, 145-156,

169-174 CLEAR

SCP- 1

BT

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC BEGRADING;

DOD DIR. 5200.10 DOES NOT APPLY

Section I will be forwarded upon receipt.

Advance copies to JOS, DIA & NIN.

(Reproduction of this message in whole or in part is prohibited without approval of THE OFFICE

OF PRIMARY INTEREST.)

SECRET

COPY NO.

AFHO INE 0-309 b

PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF

THIS FORM MAY BE USED.

HH 49061

DooId:32629759

Page 7

---

