S)

es OY

1
|
|

Date: 8/23/63

(Type in plain text or code)
AIRTEL AIR MAIL

Via
(Priority or Method of Mailing)
ee lees gata aneengas oe napeceagse gaging tase segs eigaaaeegniae ee aeeegag sega egg atari taeeegg pee nap taeenegeea Rep glgoeepegeaspeeyaseeegtaenagas
;
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267) |
FROM: SAC, pL,OS ANGELES (92-113C) ‘
f
RE: 7 OHN/ROSELLI, aka
R

LA 4396-C* advised that ROSSELLI has been in Los
Angeles during the past week'‘residing at his apartment.

On 8/22/63, LA 4396-C* advised that ROSSELLI
talked to JOE who is no doubt JOSEPH I. BREEN, JR. who is a
close friend of ROSSELLI and who is presently residing and
working in Las Vegas, Nevada. ROSSELLI tells JOE about a
movie story and said someone in New York is willing to furnish
money to produce the movie. He wanted BREEN to look over the
story and made arrangements to meet BREEN at the Friar's Club
in Beverly Hills after three. p.m. on 8/22/63.

LA 4268-C advised that on 8/22/63 ROSSELLI arrived
at the Friar's Club about 2:45 p.m. and started playing cards
with RALPH MARKS. At about 4:00 p.m,, JOE BREEN arrived at 7
the club and he and ROSSELLI sat in a corner by themselves Hl
and talked.

\

*
At 4:15 p.m. when in®ormant left the Friar's Club,
ROSSELLI and BREEN were still there.

While at the Friar's Club on 8/22/63, LA 4268-C
learned that Mr. and Mrs. MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN were in the
San Diego area. In this respect, PCI JACK WALTERS advised
on 8/22/63 that FRIEDMAN and his wife had left the day !
before to attend the races at Del Mar. They planned to 1
return to the Beverly Crest Hotel on 8/25/63. When FRIEDMAN
left the hotel on,,8/21/63' he left a small address book
which the maid turfé r tothe PCI who in turn made it
available to an Agent é6f the Los Angeles Fa The address

Gopuresu (AM-RM) yi Sp. 13 O# REGaI9 (AG D-$/ Gb}
sl

=-Los Angeles
ree an 7 at tz AUG SOT .
4,
Approved:

Special A

has

5

Q

s

7

a

°
o
g
ES

' Deca: 32580601 Page 1


ree

crt

ee Swe G

LA 92-1130

book, which has been photographed and returned to PCI
contains names, addresses, and telephone numbers of numerous
contacts of FRIEDMAN.

The Las Vegas Office advised that on 7/21/63 the
flight manifest of Flight 133 (Bonanza Airlines) from Reno,
Nevada, to Las Vegas, Nevada, carries "Mr, and Mrs. John
Rosselli" and "Mr. and Mrs. M. Friedman" as passengers. It
is recalled that FRIEDMAN and ROSSELLI reportedly left Los
Angeles together on 7/18/63 for Cal Neva Lodge on Lake Tahoe. .
The means of travel they used is not known, however,
additional information may be obtained from Bonanza Airline
records in Reno where it was indicated that ROSSELLI and
FRIEDMAN cancelled reservations to San Francisco and Chicago,
Illinois and went to Las Vegas.

ROSSELLI, according to.a neighborhood source, has
peen driving a 1962 Ford T-Bird. This car is registered to
Brand Motors where ROSSELLI bought his 1963 T-Bird. The
reason for ROSSELLI using a Brand Motors car is not presently
known.

AUSA THOMAS SHERIDAN is considering issuing a
subpoena for ROSSELLI to appear before a Federal Grand Jury
which is inquiring into the activities of several members
of Friar's Club in connection with bookmaking activities.
(This is an IRS investigation). LA 4268-C has advised that
someone from the Beverly Hills Police Department suggested to
the Friar's Club that they dut down on some of the larger
gambling games at. the club during the current inquiries.

E, STEPHEN D'ARTOIS, Sales Manager, Doheny Plaza
Apartments, where ROSSELLI has a reservation to purchase an
apartment advised on 8/22/63 that he has heard nothing further
on this from either ROSSELLI or MAURICE FRIEDMAN.

LA 4268-C had advised that ROSSELLI was at the
Friar's Club nearly every day during the past week.

feat Fat £
EWED AY BEER TASK FORCE

LBs,

Gu-2 Ch PA—S/6

DoclId:32580601 Page 2

