JFK Assassination System Date: TT2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: = 157-10014-10155
RECORD SERIES: | MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 07-M-60
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 07/00/1975
PAGES: 39 i:
SUBJECTS :
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES.
GRAY, GORDON
SSCSGO, HEARINGS
ORGANIZED CRIME
LANSDALE, EDWARD G.
DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION Declassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 03/21/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : CCBOX 437

v9.L

DocId:32423543 Page 1


Date : 08/07/95
Page : 1
JFK. ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY INFORMATION

SSCIA

157-10014-10155

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
07-M-60

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS,

07/00/75

39

SSCSGO, HEARINGS
LANSDALE, EDWARD G.
GRAY, GORDON
ORGANIZED CRIME
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
MEMORANDUM

TOP SECRET
REFERRED

POSTPONED IN FULL
01/08/99

CCBOX 437

Docld:32423543 Page 2

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


ted
fic

°
ra
w

MOR

boo

oO
o

x
Pp

be

t to

no

on
spea

s

Iti

oniy.

ant

in tnis file is to be rea
discu
a question,

clon

i

i

thout $s
k to th

wi

s
s

nt,

me

or a require
file.

ssed with another per
s

s to thi

d, or
acces

ave

h
ne
ar

you

parap
If

L

TSsurn BY 1 SLCURED §

TO!

ACCE

HAVING

PERSO

OF



Annexed are the following which relate to this week's he

erial should be treated with extreme sensitivity.)

(This ma
Schedule of Full Comittee Witnesses ;*

Q)
(2) Draft of Summa:

ry Chronology and issues/questions

concerning General Lansdale (a witness for July 8);#

The sane for Gordon Gray (a witness for July 9); and

(3)

(4) Swenary Chronology of the actions en in connection

with Castro.

The Senators will ve receiving similar material for all this

week's witnesses.

Frederick A. 0. Schwarz, Jr.
Curtis Smothers

* We will be taking, in addition, some proof from middle level
This will be summarized in

personnel related to the Trujillo case.
weiting for the Committee.

Copies to Willian G. Miller
David Aaron -
William Bader

DocId:32423543 Page 4


July 7, 1975

SCTED SCHEDULE OF MEETINGS 0 SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

g
3
5

§ WEEX OF JULY-7 - 11,-1975

{ro swell GILPATRIC

( General E. G. LANSDALE

8-hoT July 9 10:00 a.m. Walt ROSTOW
2:00 p.m. General Maxwell TAYLOR
Gordon CRAY
8-128 July 10 Thomas PARROTT
{ Dean RUSK
{ Richard COODVIN
S-hOT July 11 8:30 a.m. “William HARVEY
2:00 p.m. Robert MC HAMARA
\ McGeorge BUNDY

This schedule is subject to change on very short notice

This is NOT for public announcement

Docld: 32423543 Page 5


TO: Fritz 0 Schwarz and Curt Snothers .
FROM: Joseph E. Digenova

DATLE: July 6, 1975
SUBJECT: Brig. Gen. Edwatd G. Lansdale Summary Chronology ER
ts

Biographical Background

1941- U.S. Air Force
1945
1945-1963 Became regular officer in the Air Force (ultimately retired as Major General)

Eisenhower Deputy Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Special Operations
Administra- (Secretary Thomas Gates)

tion

1960-1961 ‘In Vietnam doing a survey for the Secretary of Defense.

1961 Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Special Operations
(Secretary Robert McNamara)

1965 Special Assistant to the United States Ambassador to South Vietnam

(Lodge)

Chronology of Events QUESTIONS AND ISSUES

1960

November 3 Lansdale present at Special Group meeting when Merchant Yet CIA had already made contact
prompted discussion of "taking direct positive action with the Mafia. Was Cabell not
against Fidel, Raul, and Che Guevara (SG Minutes) informed or was he being dis-
Cabell ‘said that kind of program not practical and group ingenuous?
decides not to adopt sucha plan.

1961

Oct 6 SGA told by Parrott of 2 "other contingency plans in
connection with possible removal of Castro from the
Cuban scene..." (Minutes of SGA).

November 3 Lansdale memo discusses major sabotage action. Indica- Before the Rockefeller Commission
tes that present means NOT likely to cause overthrow Lansdale denies that he was in-
of Cuban regime. volved in sabotage and said that

he and JFK and REK tried to stop
sabotage. Clearly not the case.

Page 6

3
8
g
3
S



November 31

December 1

December 8

1962
January 18

January 20

January 24

-2-

President Kennedy in memo to Special Group summarizes
major decisions re Cuba Project and appoints General
Lansdale as acting Chief of Operations.

R. Kennedy tells SG that "Higher authority" *i.e., the
President) has given priority to Cuba project and Lansdale
is to develop long range plan to be reviewed by SG and
submitted to higher authority for approval. .
Lansdale presents outline of program designed to overthrow
Castro regime. Uses Cubans as nucleus.

‘Lansdale sends R. Kennedy a copy of his program review of
Same day and notes on an attached paper: "My review does
not include the sensitive work I have reported to you. I
felt that you preferred informing the President privately.

Lansdale memo reflecting on 1/19/62 meeting with AG.
Reflects L's own view of the severity and the importance

of the remarks of the AG re pushing forward vigorously with
Cuba Proje-t. "We are in a combat situation -- where

we have been given full command

Lansdale memo for Special Group notes it is difficult to
control indigenous nationals if the movement develops
its own impetus.

OP SECRET esr wn ss

What was the nature of this sensi-
tive work? All plans were supposed
to go to the SG-2hy not these? Was
there a separate secret plan that
only Lansdale, the President, and
AG and a few others knew of? Was
this a manner of avoiding a
"reporting" requirement?

Did this reflect the pressure that
Helms testified to that created
what he called a feeling that
"anything goes?" Yet McCone
continually compiained not enough
being done, Why?

Yas there concern that these
nationals if armed would assassi-
nate Cuban leaders? Were they
concerned that they could unleash
something they could not control?
Was this dangerous becasue we
couldn't control what followed
assassination?

Page 7

3
8
g
3
S



Jan. 24

cs TOP SED RET sees ow

Lansdale briefs the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Memo for
record says "From the outset, General Lansdale has
emphasized paramilitary oeprations in connection with
this project.

These are inconsistent with his
cdaim to Rockefeller Commission
that he tried to stop sabotage
operations.

Page 8

3
8
g
3
S



JOP SECRET coco as vs

January 27. Lansdale Memo to AG stating need for strong decisions and evidence
of his support. Efforts of Agency so far have accomplished goal
re Cuba, "and I still feel that we might uncork the touchdown
play.independently of the institutional program we are spurring."
(emphasis added)

| January 30 Lansdale memo Craig re “Operation Bounty" which establishes system
of financial reward comensurate wiht position and stature of victim,
| for killing or delivering alive known Communists in Cuba.

February 20 jLansdale program review. Proposed plans for September will include
Nan attack on the cadre of the regime including key leaders. Gangster
elements might provide the best recruitment potential for actions
against police -- G2 officials...CW agents should be fully considered."

Lansdale memo to SGA wiht basic plan of action notes “any inference
that this plan exists couldplace the President of the United States
in a most damaging position."

March 2 General Taylos guidelines will be reviewed and shown to higher
authority, "but in the context of information rather than a request
for specific approval." Rusk notes that "once the agents are within Was this genuine concem
the country they cannot be effectively controlled from the U.S." for lack of control? Wa

what Harvey had done a
known example? (poison
pills) Was what Harvey

did inconsistent with

March $ Taylor guidelines for Mongoose sent to Lansdale in'draft form. control
Are responsible for performance . through normal command channels

to the President." (The word President" is crossed out and "higher Is this another example

| authority" is put in its place.) of attempts to isolate
the President on the a
record from the project? °
2
a
| 3
t o
g
$
a



TOP SEGRE F = =»

March 5 Lansdale memo to Goodwin askii for alternate tracks Rusk sees Is this part of
open to achieve Cuban objectives; plus list of pretexts Rusk "plausible deniability"
sees as desirable in connection with any direct military inter-
vention.

March 12 Lansdale tells SGA CIA urgently needs policy determination
"on the supplying of arms and equipment to deserving Cuban What were the guns
guerrillas, as they are located, assessed, and request help. to be used for?
Such requests are starting to surface there is a need Were the limits" con-
for defining the limits of arming guerrillas (for self cerned with control
defense, for training, for purposes shor of open actions in of what was done with
revolt), to permit operational judgment to be used by the guns, or with the

timing of their deliver
(CIA was setting up

new contacts with

Mafia in late March)

designated operations officers

March 13 Lansdale memo to SGA says many agents infiltrated into Cuba
"will be trained for paramilitary skills as well as intelligence
collection...however, the CIA has noted that, once the agents
are inside Cuba, they cannot be controlled effectively outside
Cuba."

7 Craig reports to SGA that use’of BW/CW to incapacitate Cuban
sugar workers "infeasible and it was cancelled."

March 16 Taylor memo re meeting of SGA with President discussing Taylor's Isolating the President once
guidelines notes "General Lansdale and the Special Group (Augmented) again? Plausible deniability?
were given tacit authorization to proceed in accordance with the If so why such a clumsy
guidelines." . Footnote says: "...group was unanimous in feeling attempt?
that no authorization, either tacit or otherwise was given by
higher authority. Footnote added one week later.

April 5 SGA meeting. McCone impatient. Group consensus is that time

has come to reexamine basic philosophy of project with particular
reference to the possibility of finding a pretext for early
overt intervention.

Page 10

3
8
&
S
S



April 10

April 11

April 12

May

May

w

-5-

Harvey memo to McCone.cites need for less restrictive
and less stultifying controls by SGA, Harvey considers
Lansdale insistence to be given details improper.

At SGA meeting McCone urges speed-up of covert action
schedule, "General Lansdale said it would be useful

to have approval to go further with infiltrated agentsi .
than restricting them to intelligence missions."

Three pages marked alternatives I, II, III, with no
attribution note: "hence, our covert activities should

tbe directed at the...attrition of the leadership of the
government, through bribery and related means, and at

all other disavowable courses of action detrimental to the
local regimes." (00270-00272)

Lansdale tells Taylor "Under revised plan for Operation
Mongoose, proposal for supplying arms and equipment to
these (one team in place plus 7 local groups identified) °
will be submitted to the SG for decision, ad hoc. No
proposals have been received."

SGA meeting. Harvey reports onhis infiltration teams.
Three are in place.

Lansdale memo to SGA complains of breakdown of communi-
cation with Chief of Operations. He requests that "all
plans and actions with operational aspects hereafter
be made known to the Chief of Operations " If this
is not done, "we invite the danger of matters falling
between the chairs."

TOP SEE

Does McCone's statement show
pressure or lack of it? Lans-
dale's comments are inconsistent
with his Rockefeller testimony.

Did Harvey mention the poison
pills, and other attempts on
the life of Castro? If he did
not why would Taylor make a
special report to the President
on May 7 of Harvey's report?

Was this an allusion to recent
discovery of unknown Harvey
activities? Or was it complaint
that Harvey had simply not kept
him informed in greater detail?
Did it have to do with Harvey at
all?

Page 11

3
8
&
S
S



May 7

June 20

July 11

July 23

July 24

August

August

© _TOP SESRET™ =

Taylor reports to President on Harvey's renort to the Special

Group pointing out "the very limited progress that has been

made.’

Harvey memo to Lansdale requesting permission from SGA
for aerial resupply of infiltrated agents.

Parrott memo to a superior re air resupply operations. .
Exactly what supplies is it intended to provide?...This
sort of thing gets us pretty close to the moment of
truth.

‘DOD working group tells Lansdale electronic intelligence
should improve and provide increases information in areas
such as: "plots against prominent figures

Harvey memo to Lansdale outlining CIA participation
in phase one.staces reason they haven't done more in
area of infiltration has been lack of decisiveness by
"higher authority” on use of military force.

Lansdale memo to SGA states "the major difference from
phase one of Operation Mongoose would be in removing
the restriction, in the 14 March policy guidelines,
which kept our actions 'short of those reasonably
calculated to inspire a revolt within the target
area.'"

Lansdale memo to SGA concerning Harvey request for
authority for major sabotage against industry and public
utilities. Lansdale requested this stepped-up plan from
Harvey.

What limited projects?
Was this an allusion to
assassination?

Were arms involved in the request?
What is the moment of truth?

Why such concern for the nature
of the supplies?

Where does DOD get this idea?
What plots are they referring to?

Was Harvey frustration put into
action by disobeying orders?

Page 12

3
8
&
S
S



August 10

August 13

August 14

August 20

2 TOP SEBRET 2 =

Special group meeting at which McNamara raises issue of
assassination of Castro. Lansdale is present.

Harvey memo relating to August 10 meeting states "we will
produce an outline for an alternate course B for sub-
mission. Papers required from individuals for Tuesday
meeting include ‘Mr. Harvey: Intelligence, Political
(splitting the regime, liquidation of leaders)

McCone calls McNamara after receiving Lansdale memo insis-
ting that it be withdrawn because no decision had been
made on the subject of liquidation and Lansdale was out
of order in asking CIA to consider the matter. McCone
testified that McNamara agreed memo should be withdrawn.

Harvey memo to McConemting he called Lansdale's office and
told Frank Hand of the "stupidity" of including in the
Lansdale memo as a topic to be considered "liquidation

of leaders." CIA would not participate in preparation

of such documents pertaining to liquidation and urged

that Hand recommend to Lansdale that phrase be excised.
Lansdale called back to say that it had been done.

Harvey memo to DDP (CIA) notes that matter of assassi-
nation brought up in Rusk's office by McNamara. "I took
careful note from the comments...and the SGA is not

expecting any written comments or study on this point

Taylor memo to SGA received by Lansdale which notes
attached papers were read and approved by higher
authority today." Papers were Taylor guidelines for
phase two. President told SGA favors more aggressive
program. Sabotage was to be employed on selective
basis under guidelines.

What was the extent of the dis-
cussion? Were people told to
present plans?

Lansdale understood from August
10 meeting that plans were to be
prepared. Did everyone else get
this impression?

Was this the first time McNamara
was aware of the Lansdale memo?
Had he himself made an effort to
have Lansdale withdraw the memo
independent of McCone's request?

Why was Harvey so ‘concerned?
He had carried out full-scale
operation against Castro in
April of 1962. Was it simply
the fear of having something in
writing?

Were they expecting unwritten
comments or studies on this point?

Page 13

3
8
&
S
S



=) - 8 TG? SEGRE QUESTIONS AND ISSUES

August 30 SGA requests CIA to submit list of possible sabotage Was this an abdication of
targets. "The group by reacting to this list could de- control?
fine the limits within which the Agency could operate
on its own initiative."

September 6 At SGA meeting where Lansdale was present Bundy notes
re agricultural sabotage that release of chemicals
must be avoided unless it could be completely covered
up.

October 4 ‘Lansdale present at SGA meeting when AG questioned
| whether we were going down the right road or whether
| "more direct action" is not indicated. AG says
President dissatisfied with lack of action in the
sabotage field.

October 11 Lansdale recommends early approval of CIA plans for
sabotaging Cuban shipping vessels.

October 26 Lansdale disavows any responsibility or support for Was Lansdale kept in the dark
the proposed infiltration of 9 teams into Cuba. about these operations? Numerous
"Mr. Harvey's defense of the plan was not conclusive. Harvey memos have marked as a
All teams were to le withheld. This is the Matahambre footnote on them re Matahambre
copper mine sabotage operation. "not in Lansdale's memo.” What

does this mean?

October 30 McCone tells Lansdale President has decided to hold
back Operation Mongoose during negotiations on
Soviet missile crisis. No more sabotage of any
form.

| November 21 Harvey memo says that Lansdale's statement that This was part of an escalating 8
Operation Mongoose "had had no information on this debate over how much Lansdale é
| opention (Matahambre) since early October was patently either knew or did not know about
false." that operation. Was Harvey cover-

3
8
&
S
S

ing his tracks?



May

May 31

July 3

"TOP SECRET

Lansdale tells Rockefeller Commission he tried to stop
sabotage. Admits, however, that there were discussions
in the SGA concerning the possibility of plans to assassi-
nate foreign leaders. He denies, however, that any such
plans were ever actually formukted.

Washington Post story says Lansdale "Hinted strongly,
but refused to confirm, that the orders to draw up .
plans (that may have included Fidel Castro's assassina-
tion) came from the late Attorney General Robert F.
Kennedy." Lansdale insisted however, that "neither
President Kennedy or any other Kennedy ever gave me

any orders to plan the assassination of Castro."

In a New York Times story Horrock reports that "yesterday
General Lansdale said that in November, 1961, AG Robert

F. Kennedy ordered him to prepare a secret contingency
plan to depose Mr. Castro. General Lansdale confirmed
that Robert Kennedy was acting on behalf of President
Kennedy." Assassination may have been considered as one
of the mans of removing Castro. He never redeived specific
orders from JFK or RFK to prepare a plan to assassinate
Castro.

Washington Star story by O'Leary reports that Lansdale

"has named Robert F. Kennedy as the Administration

official who ordered him in 1962 to launch a CIA project

to work out all feasible plans for ‘getting rid of' Cuban
Prime Minister Fidel Castro."" The word assassination was
never used by anyone Lansdale said,’ but there was no doubt
that the plans envisioned this as one of the means. Lansdale
relayed the orders directly to William Harvey.

Lansdale gives statement to Select Committee stating that
Washington Star story is a distortion of his remarks.

"T can say that I never did receive any order from President
Kennedy or from the Attorney Genral...no order about taking
action against Castro personally."

ISSUES

Page 15

3
8
&
S
S



5

GAMBLING SYNDICATE.

Early September, 1960 !

EDWARDS contacted MAHEU, who agreed to contact the
gambling syndicate under the guise of representing
international business interests opposed to Castro.
In early September, MAHEU met JOHN ROSELLI in
Beverly Hills and told him that “high Government
sources" desired his assistance. On September 14,
O'CONNELL and MAHEU met ROSELLI in New York, and
ROSELLI agreed to introduce MAHEU to "SAM GOLD"
(SAM GIANCANA) who could arrange contacts with
syndicate elements in Cuba. $150,000 was offered
for successful completion of the assination.
ROSELLI declined to accept payment.

GAMBLING SYNDICATE: DULLES BRIEFED ON OPERATION

Mid September, 1960

EDWARDS and BISSELL briefed DCI DULLES and GENERAL
CABELL on the gambling syndicate operation. EDWARDS
implied that the plan would be put into effect unless
DULLES subsequently told him to stop. BISSELL left
the meeting certain that DULLES knew the nature of
the operation.

Comments

Page 16

3
8
&
S
S



GAMBLING SYNDICATE: GIANCANA JOINS THE OPERATION ~ ra:

Late September, 1960

During the week of September 24, MAHEU, ROSELLI, and
GIANCANA met at the Fontainbleau and Kennilworth
hotels in Miama. GIANCANA was to be a "contact man",

although ROSELLI did not use GIANCANA to locate Cubans
employed in the operation. c

GIANCANA told MAHEU that TRAFFICANTE would serve as
courrier to Cuba and make arrangements there. O'CONNELL
never met GIANCANA or TRAFFICANTE, but recognized them
as gangsters from a newspaper article on prominent

Cosa Nostra members, and reported this fact to EDWARDS.

GAMBLING SYNDICAGE: ROWAN WIRETAP

October 1960(?)

MAHEU informed O'CONNELL that GIANCANA believed his
girlfriend, PHYLLIS MCGUIRE, was having an affair
with DAN ROWAN, and that GIANCANA wanted MAHEU to bug
ROWAN'S room in Los Vegas. MAHEU warned that if the
tap were not installed, GIANCANA would leave Miami,
disrupting the operation.

O'CONNELL contacted someone at CIA, presumably EDWARDS,
and received approval for having MAHEU arrange a tap
(EDWARDS denies he was consulted). MAHEU passed the
matter to EDWARD DUBOIS, a private investigator, who
arranged for ARTHUR J. BALLETTI and J.W. HARRISON to
install the tap.

Comments

Page 17

3
8
&
S
S



a Comments

BALLETTI and HARRISON were arrested after a maid % ,,
discovered the listening device. BALLETTI called Je
MAHEU, and ROSELLI provided MAHEU with the bail - an
money. MAHEU told EDWARDS that the FBI was in- f
vestigating his association with ROSELLI and
| GIANCANA. EDWARDS told MAHEU that if he was formally ss
approached by the FBI, he should refer the FBI to :
EDWARDS.

EXECUTIVE ACTION: WHITE HOUSE AUTHORIZATION

7
January, 1961

During luncheon meetings at the White House in January,
BISSELL was requested (probably by BUNDY and ROSTOW)

to establish an executive action capacity. The program
was to develop the capability to remove foreign political
leaders through the clandestine service. BISSELL assumed
the mandate included assassination capability.

EXECUTIVE ACTION: PROGRAM ESTABLISHED

Late January, 1961

In late January, BISSELL asked HARVEY to establish an
executive action capability. HARVEY understood the
mandate to include assassination, but no specific
leaders were targeted.

HARVEY expressed doubts about the feasibility of assas-

sinations to BISSELL and HELMS. The DCI was not advised s
of the program at this time, and it is uncertain whether .
he was ever advised. 3
&
Ps
8
8
3
&



On January 26, HARVEY discussed the operation with
ARNOLD SILVER. The project was named ZRRIFFLE, and
operated under the cover of procuring code decipher
materials. Agent QJWIN, who had been recruited
earlier by SILVER for an operation against Lumumba,
was salaried as the principle agent.

On January 26, HARVEY discussed assassination techni-
ques with SYD GOTTLIEB of the TSD.

GAMBLING SYNDICATE: ORTA OPERATION

January-Fébruary, 1961

GIANCANA suggested the use of poison pills. EDWARDS
and O'CONNELL discussed the pills with TREICHLER of
TSD, and by February 10, the pills had been tested
for their effectiveness. Shortly thereafter they
were supplied to O'CONNELL, who gave them to ROSELLI.
ROSELLI reported that the pills had been delivered
to JUAN ORTA in Cuba. ORTA kept the pills for a few
weeks, and then returned them.

POISONED CIGARS DELIVERED

February 13, 1961

TREICHLER notes reveal poisoned cigars delivered to
unidentified person on February 13.

Comments

Page 19

3
8
&
S
S



GAMBLING SYNDICATE: VERONA _OPERATIO!

March-April, 1961 é

Following ORTA's failure, ROSELLI told O'CONNELL that .
TRAFFICANTE had approached TONY VERONA, head of a Cuban >
exile movement fronted by the CIA. VERONA claimed to
have a contact inside Cuba who worked at a restaurant
frequented by Castro. $10,000 in cash and $1,000 in ~
communications equipment were delivered to O'CONNELL

to cover operational expenses.

MAHEUj ROSELLI, TRAFFICANTE, and VERONA met at the
Fontainbleau Hotel in Miami, and MAHEU delivered the
cash and capsules to VERONA. When the operation
failed to materialize, VERONA returned the cash.

AMLASH: INITIAL CONTACT

March 9, 1961

JACK STEWART, of the Mexico City station of the CIA,
met with AMLASH-1, a major in the Cuban army who was
disaffected with Castro, in Mexico City on March 9.
AMLASH-1 requested arms for use in operations against
Castro.

AMLASH: REQUEST FOR AID IN DEFECTING

March 28, 1961

AMLASH-1 decided to defect and requested aid from
STEWART. No assistance was given because of report
that Cuban police aware of AMLASH-1's defection plans.

Comments

Page 20

3
8
&
S
S



EARLY APRIL ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT o

Early April, 1961 ve

During early April, 1961, CIA cables reveal that ~ nie b
an unidentified Cuban working with the agency volun- 2
teered to assassinate Castro, but was unable to enter

Cuba.

BAY OF PIGS: APRIL 16-19, 1961

GAMBLING SYNDICATE: OPERATION TERMINATED

Late April, 1961

Shortly after the Bay of Pigs, EDWARDS sent word to
ROSELLT through O'CONNELL that the Syndicate operation
was terminated, and that even if someone succeeded in
assassinating Castro, there would be no payoff. The
pills were retrieved.

MCCONE BRIEFING RE: ASSASSINATIONS

September, 1961

Between his nomination and confirmation, MCCONE was
briefed about the Cuban operations. He was apparently
not told about any assassination plans, either past
or ongoing, nor about Executive Action or the Gambling
Syndicate operation.

Comments

Page 21

3
8
&
S
S



Comments

MCCONE BECOMES DCI

October, 1961 ke ot

i

TASK FORCE W: INCEPTION

October, 1961

In October, SAM HALPERN of the Caribbean Division
attended a meeting with BISSELL and GHOSE ZOGBEY,
Branch Chief. BISSELL stated that he had been repri-
manded by RFK and JFK for not "getting rid of" the
Castro regime. He ordered HALPERN and ZOGBEY to plan
an operation to get rid of Castro, placing no limita-
tion on the means.

Shortly after the meeting, HALPERN was introduced to .

GENERAL LANSDALE. HALPERN looked to LANSDALE for
guidance and reported to him.

EXECUTIVE ACTION: DECISION TO APPLY PROGRAM TO CASTRO

November 15, 1961

On November 15, HARVEY and BISSELL discussed apply-
ing the ZRRIFLE capability against Castro. BISSELL
also instructed HARVEY to take over EDWARDS' gambling
syndicate operation.

TASK FORCE W: HARVEY TAKES COM

January, 1962

Page 22

HARVEY was put in charge of Task Force W in January, 1962.

3
8
&
S
S



GAMBLING SYNDICATE: EDWARDS-HARVEY BRIEF.

February 1962
Edwards briefed HARVEY on the gambling syndicate opera-

tion in February. Details for his taking over the
operation were worked out during the following month.

HELMS BECOMES DDP AND BRIEFED BY BISSELL

February, 1962
,
HELMS replaced BISSELL as DDP in February. BISSELL,
either himself or through HARVEY, briefed HELMS on the
gambling syndicate assassination plot, telling him it
had been deactivated.

EXECUTIVE ACTION: AUTHORIZATION BY HELMS

February 19, 1962

On February 19, HELMS issued a memorandum authorizing
HARVEY to retain QJWIN and other agents he felt neces-
sary for ZRRIFLE; accounting for funds was to be by
general category by HARVEY's certification.

Comments

Page 23

3
8
&
S
S



aa 10

Comments

WIRETAP INCIDENT: FBI-CIA DISCUSSIONS é

February-April, 1962

Sometime after BALLETTI's arrest, MAHEU informed the +s
FBI that the ROWAN wiretap involved an intelligence
operation directed against Cuba. On February 7,
EDWARDS told PAPICH that the CIA would object to the
use of CIA personnel or information in prosecutions,
and that the introduction of evidence concerning the
CIA operation would be “embarrassing to the Government.’
On March 23, HOOVER sent a letter to MCCONE through
EDWARDS characterizing the ROWAN wiretap as involving
intelligence information" and asking if the CIA ob-
jected to prosecution of BALLETTI and MAHEU. EDWARDS
forwarded the letter to HOUSTON, requesting him to in-
form Assistant Attorney General MILLER that the ROWAN
wiretap was related to intelligence operations against
Cuba. On April 16, HOUSTON requested MILLER to under-
take no prosecutions for the ROWAN wiretap. HOUSTON
then briefed DDCI CARTER, who said that MCCONE might

be briefed in "due time". There is no indication

that CARTER was told about the assassination opera-
tion or that MCCONE was briefed by any of the parties.

GAMBLING SYNDICATE: HARVEY MEETS ROSELLI

Early April, 1962

HARVEY requested EDWARDS to put him in touch with ROSELLI.
In early April, O'CONNELL introduced HARVEY to ROSELLT in
Miami. HARVEY told ROSELLI to maintain his Cuban contacts,
but not to deal with MAHEU or GIANCANA. HARVEY briefed
HELMS on the result of this meeting, and thereafter kept
HELMS informed of the status of the operation.

Page 24

3
8
&
S
S



GAMBLING SYNDICATE: MEETING IN NEW_YORK

April 8-9, 1962
HARVEY, O'CONNELL, and ROSELLI met in New York on

April 8-9. It is uncertain whether MAINEAU was pre-
sent.

GAMBLING SYNDICATE: WASHINGTON MEETING

April 14, 1962
HARVEY, O'CONNELL, and ROSELLI met in Washington on

April 14. ROSELLI was apprehensive about HARVEY
and asked O'CONNELL to stay with operation.

GAMBLING SYNDICATE: DELIVERY OF PILLS TO ROSELLI

April 19-21, 1962
TREICHLER delivered four pills to O'CONNELL on April

18. HARVEY arrived in Miami with the pills on April
21.

GAMBLING SYNDICATE: DELIVERY OF PILLS TO VERONA

April 21, 1962

ROSELLI reestablished contact with VERONA, who claimed
to have an asset in Cuba who could deposit the pills in
Castro's food. ROSELLI told HARVEY that the asset in-
tended to use the pills to assassinate Castro, Che
Guevarra, and Raul Castro. HARVEY approved of the
targets and gave ROSELLI the pills, who passed them on
to his asset (Cuban no. 1). ROSELLI's assistant was
an Italian-speaking Cuban named MACEO.

Comments

il

Page 25

3
8
&
S
S



12

- Comments
GAMBLING SYNDICATE: DELIVERY OF ARMS TO VERNONA

Late April, 1962 a

VERONA requested arms and equipment: HARVEY obtained
explosives, detonators, rifles, radios, and boat radar
from TED SHACKLEY, head of the JNWAVE station. The
equipment was to be used in the assassination effort

| and to aid Cuban guerrillas.

HARVEY and SHACKLEY delivered the equipment to a park-
ing lot in a U-Haul truck rented under an assumed name.
HARVEY gave the keys to ROSELLI, who arranged to have
the ttuck picked up by an unidentified contact. This
arrangement was used because ROSELLI did not yet trust
HARVEY. O'CONNELL and ROSELLI together staked out the
truck.

GAMBLING SYNDICATE: DELIVERY OF PILLS AND ARMS TO CUBA

May, 1962

ROSELLI kept HARVEY informed of developments. Sometime
in May ROSELLI reported to HARVEY that the pills had
reached Cuba, and that he believed the guns were inside
Cuba.

Page 26

3
8
&
S
S



Comments

WIRETAP INCIDENT: RFK BRIEFING are

May 7-14, 1962 eae

At RFK's request, on May 7, 1962, EDWARDS and HOUSTON
briefed RFK on the first phase of gambling syndicate
assassination plot. EDWARDS claims he did not know

the operation was continuing; HOUSTON claims EDWARDS +
told him the operation had terminated. RFK was told

that the operation had been terminated, and RFK stated
that no operations involving gangsters should be under-
taken without first notifying him. EDWARDS did not
notify HARVEY of this order. RFK briefed HOOVER on May
10, criticizing the use of underworld figures and stating
that it would be difficult to prosecute MAHEU or GIANCANA
on any charges.

On May 14, EDWARDS and HARVEY met with HELMS and advised
against telling MCCONE of the assassination plot. HELMS
agreed not to brief MCCONE.

On May 14, EDWARDS wrote a memorandum for the file stating

that HARVEY had informed him that he was dropping all

plans to use ROSELLI in the future. According to HARVEY,

both he and EDWARDS knew that the ROSELLI operation was

continuing. .

On May 14, EDWARDS wrote a memorandum for the record, a
copy of which was sent to REK, summarizing the Nay 7
briefing of RFK.

Page 27

3
8
&
S
S

| en eee ne re


14
Comments

TO CUBA

GAMBLING SYNDICATE: 3 MAN TEAM SEN’

June, 1962

ROSELLI informed HARVEY in June that a three-man team
had been dispatched to Cuba, evidently to either kill
Castro themselves or to recruit others to do the job.

GAMBLING SYNDICATE: O'CONNELL CUT OUT

June, 1962
4
O'CONNELL left for an assignment to Japan in June,
1962. His participation in the Gambling Syndicate
Operation ended at least by this time, and possibly
in May.

AMLASH: RECRUITMENT AS ASSET

July-September, 1962

Meetings were held with AMLASH-1 in early August in
Helsinki, in which AMLASH-1 expressed a desire to carry
out operations to undermine the Castro regime, includ-
ing the assassination of Castro. During the weeks of
August 14-23, AMLASH-1 was met by agents in Paris and
given S/W training.

GAMBLING SYNDICATE: SECOND THREE-MAN TEAM SENT

September 7-11, 1962

Page 28

HARVEY met ROSELLI in Miami on September 7 and ll.
ROSELLI reported that the pills were still in Cuba,
and that VERONA was preparing to send in another three-
man team assigned to penetrate Castro's bodyguard.

3
8
&
S
S



HARVEY did not notify MCCONE because he doubted that
the plot would succeed.

GAMBLING SYNDICATE: ROSELLI PLACED IN SAFE HOUSE

October, 1962

ROSELLI claims that the CIA put him in a "safe house’
in Washington, D. C. during the Cuban missile crisis.

TASK FORCB W: FITZGERALD TAKES COMMAND

January, 1963

FITZGERALD replaced HARVEY as commander of Task Force
W in January, 1963, under intense pressure from either
RFK or JFK to "get rid of" Castro. The Task Force
for the first time considered methods of assassinating
Castro. The Special Group was told of none of these
plans.

TASK FORCE W: EXPLODING SEASHELL

January, 1963(?)

FITZGERALD asked HALPERN to investigate the possibility
of rigging an exotic seashell to explode and placing
it in an area where Castro went skin diving. The plan
was dropped as impractical.

Comments

15

Page 29

3
8
&
S
S



TASK FORCE W: CONTAMINATED DIVING SUIT ine

January, 1963

A plan was devised to have JAMES DONOVAN, who was
negotiating for the release of Bay of Pigs pri-
soners with Castro, to present Castro with a diving
suit dusted with a fungus that would produce a dis-
abiling skin disease and contaminated with a tubercle
bacilli. The plan was abandoned because DONOVAN had
already given Castro a diving suit.

4
GAMBLING SYNDICATE: COLLAPSE OF OPERATION

January 6-16, 1963

HARVEY met with ROSELLI and MACEO in Miami several times
during the first half of January. The second three-man
team did not embark for Cuba. ROSELLI told HARVEY that
nothing was happening and that it was doubtful that any-
thing would happen in the future.

GAMBLING SYNDICATE: TERMINATION OF OPERATION

February 11-15, 1963

HARVEY left word for MACEO in Miami that the assassi-
nation program had ended. On February 1S, HARVEY met
with ROSELLI in Los Angeles, where they agreed to call
off the assassination plot. ROSELLI did not notify
the assets that the plot had been terminated, but
simply refrained from further dealing with them in any
way.

Comments

16

Page 30

3
8
&
S
S



PERSONAL MEETING BETWEEN HARVEY AND ROSELLI

June, 1963
In Mid-June, HARVEY, after notifying HELMS, had

a personal meeting with ROSELLI in Washington,
D.C. prior to HARVEY's trip to Rome.

HELMS BRIEFS MCCONE ON GAMBLING SYNDICATE OPERATION

August 16, 1963
1

On August 16, MCCONE asked HELMS about relations
between the Mafia and the CIA after learning of
imminent newspaper articles on the topic. HELMS
sent MCCONE a copy of EDWARDS' May 14, 1962 memo-
randum describing only the first phase of the
operation. The cover memorandum stated "I assume
you are aware of the nature of the operation discussed
in the attachment MCCONE did not recall hearing
of the operation previously, and was told by HELMS
that it "has long since been put to bed.”

Articles stating that GIANCANA had been used by
the CIA in an intelligence operation against Cuba
appeared in the Chicago Sun-Times on August 16,
and the Chicago Daily News on August 20.

Comments

17

Page 31

3
8
&
S
S



AMLASH: MEETING WITH FITZGERALD

October, 1963

| AMLASH-1 insisted on meeting with a senior United
i States official for assurances of American support.

FITZGERALD and HELMS agreed that FITZGERALD should
meet AMLASH in Paris and hold himself out as a per-
sonal representative of RFK. HELMS decided that it
was unnecessary to seek approval from RFK because he
believed the operation was consistent with RFK's
general policies toward Cuba.

FITZGERALD met CUBELA on October 29, and promised

to aid any anti-communist groups which could
neutralize Castro. CUBELA requested a high-powered
rifle with telescopic sights. FITZGERALD told CUBELA
that the United States would not take part in an assas-
sination scheme.

AMLASH: DECISION TO PROVIDE RIFLES

November 19, 1963

‘A memorandum for the record by SANCHEZ dated November
19 states: "C/SAS (FITZGERALD) approved telling CUBELA
he would be given a cache inside Cuba. Cache could,
if he requested it, include . . . high powered rifles
with scopes... -

Comments

18

Page 32

3
8
&
S
S


AMLASH: PREPARATION OF POISON PE)

November 20, 1963

HALPERN requested GUNN to prepare a pen rigged
with a syringe for injecting a deadly poison,
Blackleaf 40. HALPERN believed that AMLASH
could use the pen against Castro more effectively
than a rifle. The SGA was not told about the
operation.

AMLASH: TRANSFER OF POISON PEN

November 22, 1963

FITZGERALD met with AMLASH in Paris on November 22,
gave him the poison pen, and recommended that Black-
Yeaf 40 would be an effective poison. AMLASH-1 was

disappointed, and requested that weapons be deposited

at a friend's farm in Cuba.

MLASH: ARMS DELIVERY

March-June 1964

A cache of arms was delivered to Cuba for AMLASH on

March 17-21; in the week of June’9, another cache con-

taining two FAL automatic rifles was landed in Cuba.

Comments

19

Page 33

3
8
&
S
S



20

Comments

AMLASH: ARTIME CONTACT

December, 1964

SANCHEZ met AMLASH-1 in Paris on December 6-7 and

indicated that the United States could not provide

assistance for his assassination attempt. It was

contrived to put AMLASH-1 in contact with ARTIME .
in the hope that ARTIME would provide AMLASH-1 with

a silenced weapon. On December 30, ARTIME met AMLASH

in Madrid, and ARTIME agreed to furnish a silencer.

'
AMLASH: WEAPON DELIVERY

February 11, 1965

On February 11, the Madrid station cabled: "On 10
or 11 of February CUBELA is to receive one pistol with
silencer and one Belgian FAL rifle with silencer from
ARTIME's secretary. Both weapons come from U.S. and
now in Madrid." A cable on February 12 reported that
"ARTINE had three packages of special items made up

by his technical people and delivered to CUBELA in
Madrid.”

AMLASH: TERMINATION

June, 1965

CIA terminated all contacts with the AMLASH group because
it felt that too many people knew about the AMLASH opera-
tion.

Page 34

3
8
&
S
S

Pec pe: 3 Oo


21

Comments

AMLASH ARRESTED

March 1, 1966

CUBELA was arrested on March 1, 1966 and tried for
planning the assassination of Castro.

MEMO FROM HELMS TO RUSK REGARDING AMLASII

March 7, 1966

In response to Havana Presna Latina news release
of March 5, 1966, recounting AMLASH-1's arrest and
trial, HELMS wrote RUSK on March 7 that the CIA had
been in contact with AMLASH-1 from 1961-1965, but
that the CIA was not involved in a plot with AMLASH-1
to assassinate Castro, and that it never encouraged
AMLASH-1 to attempt such an act.

LONG COMMITTEE INVESTIGATION

May-June, 1966

The Committee headed by Senator LONG investigating
invasions of privacy intended to cali MAHEU. The
Internal Security Division of the Department of
Justice informed the CIA, and the CIA's General
Counsel arranged to have MAHEU excused from testifyin

Page 35

3
8
&
S
S



Comments

ROSELLI CONTACTS EDWARDS ~

Week of May 12, 1966

On May 12, ROSELLI flew to Washington, D. C. and met
with EDWARDS. ROSELLI told EDWARDS that he had been

pproached by FBI agents who revealed that they knew .
he was in the country under an assumed name by slipping

a picture of him in his youth under his door. ROSELLI
indicated that he was afraid other gangsters might take

action against him if he talked to the FBI. EDWARDS

believed ROSELLI wanted EDWARDS to inform the FBI of

“ROSELLI's concerns.

CIA INFORMS FBI OF ROSELLI DEVELOPMENTS

May 12-18, 1966

EDWARDS advised HOWARD OSBORN, CIA Director of Security,

of his May 12 meeting with ROSELLI. OSBORN informed

SAM PAPICH, FBI liaison with the CIA, of the meeting,

and on May 18 briefed HELMS. HELMS instructed OSBORN

to work closely with the FBI and to instruct him if
evidence of a "quid pro quo" developed. OSBORN admitted
to the FBI that "ROSELLI has CIA in an unusually vulnerable
position and that he would have no qualms about embarras-
sing CIA if it served his own interests."

ROSELLI CONTACTS EDWARDS

Late May, 1966 8
2

ROSELLI phoned EDWARDS and explained that the FBI was 3
trying to blackmail him. ROSELLI contends that he did al
not request any assistance from HARVEY. ©

2

&

$

z



6 23

Comments

CIA PREVENTS EDWARDS FROM TESTIFYING

December 21, 1966

PAPICH informed EDWARDS that ROSELLI was living in

the United States under an assumed name, and that .
the FBI wanted to obtain ROSELLI's cooperation in

an investigation of the Mafia under threat of deporta-

tion, The FBI desired EDNARDS' testimony regarding

receipt of the picture by ROSELLI. OSBORN informed

PAPICH that the CIA would object to the subpoena of

EDWARDS for this purpose or as an intermediary to

solicit ROSELLI's cooperation. HOUSTON and HELMS

concurred in this position.

INSPECTOR GENERAL'S REPORT
April 25, 1967

HELMS requested the Inspector General to look into
assassination plots against Castro pursuant to an
inquiry by PRESIDENT JOHNSON. The report was sub-
mitted to HELMS on April 25,and HELMS briefed the
PRESIDENT on its contents, but did not give him a
copy.

The Report concluded that the CIA had been involved
in a plot involving underworld figures to assassinate

Castro.
5
CIA CONCERN ABOUT ROSELLI PROSECUTION $
&
August-December, 1967
On August 11, PAPICH informed OSBORN that ROSELLI 8
would shortly be arrested on gambling charges, and 3

that EDWARDS was desired as a witness. The CIA
objected to EDWARDS' appearance.



24
Comments

On October 22 and 27, ROSELLI requested HARVEY — [-
to serve as his attorney, asking "why the agency =
could not do as much for him as it did for BOB
MAHEU" in connection with the Long Committee.
(HARVEY was no longer employed by the CIA). =5

On December 8, HARVEY reported that "ROSELLI
will maintain his trust unless he is convicted
and the threat of deportation arises."

COLBY MEMO ON ASSASSINATION

August, 1969

In August, COLBY issued a memorandum to all
Deputy Directors stating that "the CIA will not
engage in assassinations or induce, assist or
project to others that assassination be em-
ployed."

Page 38

3
8
&
S
S



4d

CASTRO ASSASSINATION PLANS

Comments

EARLY PLANS TO HARASS CASTRO

March-July, 1960

Discussion of plans to sabotage Castro's speeches by
contaminating air of radio studio with a substance
resembling LSD and by impregnating Castro's cigars
with a chemical to produce temporary disorientation.
Plan to cause Castro's beard to fall out by placing
thallium salts in his shoes progresses as far as
testing the chemical on animals.

GAMBLING SYNDICATE OPERATION INITIATED

August, 1960

In August, 1960, DDP BISSELL requested SHEFFIELD
EDWARDS, Chief of the Office of Security, to establish
contacts with gambling syndicate that was active in
Cuba for the purpose of exploring capacity for assas-
sinating Castro. EDWARDS told the case officer for
the operation, JAMES O'CONNELL, to contact ROBERT A.
MAHEU, a private investigator with syndicate con-
nections. EDWARDS and BISSELL discussed various

forms of poisoning with CORNELIUS ROOSEVELT, Chief

of TSD.
8
POISON CIGARS 8
Hy
August 16, 1960 lad
EDWARD GUNN, Office of Medical Services, receives 3
cigars with orders to contaminate them with lethal s
&

material. The cigars are contaminated with Botulinum
Toxin by RAY TREICHLER, TSD.



GORDON GRAY

Chronology and Issues

1gl2-1947 «U.S. Army (Pvt. to Captain)

1949-50 Department of Army (ultimately Secretary of
the Army)

1950-51 Special Assistant to President TRUMAN

1951 Organized for TRUMAN the Psychological Strategy

Board, which involved close contact with in-
telligence community

1951-55 President, University of North Carolina

1955 Assistent Secretary of Defense for International
Security Affairs (ISA)

1988 Directcer, Office of Defense Mobilization

1958-61 SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT (EISENHOWER)

FOR NATIONAL SECURITY AFFAIRS (Head of NSC)

1961-75 Member, PFIAB (President's Foreign Intelligence

Chronology of Events

1959
November 4 Special Group discus sses Allen Dulles’ “Cuba
Propegenda Project” for use of radio trans-
mitters. GRAY said "he was sure (the project)

would meet with high level approval" provided
z it was acceptable to the President of Mexico.
(SG Minutes)

July 6, 1975

Issues and

\
Gray represents President EISENHOWER at
Special Group meetings.

32423543 Page 40

Docla


February 17

March 9

April 7

April 28

June 30

duly 1

July 21

August 12

Chronology

Special Group approves evaluation of agents for
Cuban sugar mill sabotage. GRAY "discussed

this matter with his associate” (Eisenhower)

and reported two tactical objections. (SG Minutes)

CRAY tells Special Group that any covert action

like sugar mill sebotage should be undertaken only
after overall consideration of “whether and how

the U.S. wishes to move against CASTRO." (SG Minutes)

"GRAY esked the /Special7 Group's views on

what happens after TRUJILLO, specifically how
CASTRO ean be kept out of the Dominican Republic.’
Acting DCI CABELL recommends U.S. military inter-
vention after TRUJILLO departc. (SG Minutes)

GRAY said "the opinion had been expressed to
him" that DILLON should be "Chief of Staff" for
all Cuba activities. (SG Minutes)

GPAY says "the U.S. has taken publicly about
all that it can afford to take from the Castro
government." (SG Minutes)

Memo from the Chief of CIA's Western Hemisphere
Division to the Acting DCI recommending delivery

of high-powered rifles with telescopic scopes to

the opponents of TRUJILLO. The memo said: “approval
for_ delivery of these arms has been given by ASSISTANT

SECRETARY OF STATE ROY RUBOTTOM.

GRAY said “his associates
development of sabotage operations
(SG Minutes)

would favor the
in CUBA.

Cuban operations which was to be laid before

higher authorities" for decision. (SG Minutes)

Issues and Questions

Did such consideration involve
plotting?

Did US support TRUJILLO's opponents out ofa
desire to keep CASTRO out of the Dominican
Republic?

General atmosphere of vehement opposition to
CASTRO.

Was the Special Group aware of this action?
Was the President aware of the plan?
Purpose of weapons?

"Associate" is the euphemism for Eisen-
hower. :

Does sabotage imply the further step of
assassination?

assassination”

32423543 Page 41

Docla


1960
August 16

August 25

September 8

November 3

MHLUHU LUBY
-3-

Dr. Edwerd GUNN (CIA Office of Medicel Services)

receives box of Cuban cigars to be treated with

lethal poison for use against CASTRO. (IG REPORT p.21)

After the Special Group approved enti-LUMUMBA
operations ‘in the Congo, "GRAY commented, however,
that his associates hed expressed extremely
strong feelings on the necessity for very
streightrorward action in this situation, and

he wondered whether the plans as outlined would
be sufficient to accomplish this It was
finally agreed that planning for the Congo would
not necessarily rule cut_'consideration' of any
particular kind of activity which might con-
tribute to getting rid of LUMUMBA, (SG Minutes;

emphasis added)

BISSELL asks EDWARDS to find underworld contacts
with Cuba to aid in an assassination operation
against CASTRO. (IG REPORT p.14)

During brief discussion of CONGO developmenis,
"GRAY said that he hoped that Agency people in
the field are fully aware of the top-level feeling
in Washington that vigorous action would not be
amiss." (SG Minutes; emphasis added)

GRAY, DOUGLAS, and MERCHAIIT take the view that
events in Cuba, "have now progressed to a point
where covert activities of the type originally
enyisaged for CIA to undertake will not be
effective." GRAY suggested "using the CIA-
backed exiles to mount a simulated attack on
Guantanamo in order to offer,an excuse for

overt intervention." "MERCHANT asked whether
any real planning has been done for taking direct
positive action against FIDEL, RAUL, and CHE
GUEVARA, He said that without these three the
Cuban Government would be leaderless and probably
brainless ... /I/t would be necessary to act
against all three simultaneously. Generel
CABELL concluded this operation was highly
dangerous" and “beyond cspabilities." (SG Minutes)

apdue> alu Yyuroeiuus

Were EISENHOWER, GRAY, or DCI Dulles aware
of this?

Is this a circumlocutious order for assass-
ination from the President? An indicationthai
at the least, assassination was within the
range of acceptable means for “getting rid

of LUMUMBA"? Ee

Were EISENHOWER, GRAY, or Allen DULLES aware
of this? Was it authorized by anyone outside
the DDP?

Against LUMUMBA personally?

Was a simultaneous assassination of the three
Cuban leaders ever planned or initiated?

Note that prior to this CIA had already made
the contract with the MAFIA to kill CASTRO.
(i) Was Deputy DCI CABELL excluded from
knowledge? (ii) Or was he misleading the
Special Group?

32423543 Page 42

Docla


December 28

December 29

a

Meu spy

GRAY'S "associates stend ready to deny U.S.
activity based in Guatamala" (training of Cubans)
GRAY'S "friends" want to fedus the organization
cf Cuban operations: Ambassador WILLAUER, on
evert side end BARNES, on CIA covert side, were
chosen. (SG Minutes)

PAY tells Special Group that "his ascocietes"
want a special meeting on Cuba on January 2.

BISSELL outlines two-pronged covert activities
plan "directed against the TRUJILLO regim

He also emphasized thet the proposed act.

would not of themselves bring abcut the d
result in the near future, lackin
strcke against TRUJILLO himself.

GRAY was present.

Special Group approves the State Department
proposal expleined by MERCHANT "thet Limited
supplies of small arms en@ other material
should be made available for dissidents inside
the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.” asis

.” (SG Minutes; emph
added

DDP BISSELL sks WILLIAM HARVEY to establish an
EXECUTIVE ACTION capability under project
ZRRIFLE. HARVEY'S notes are quoted es saying
thet BISSELL seid he had been "twice urged by
the White House” to esteblish such a capability,
including the capability to assassinate political
leaders.

assues

With the President?

Was CIA or the Special Group planning or
supporting an assassination of TRUJILLO?

Were these assassination-type weapons? If
not, was this Special Group action used.as
implict authority for subsequent provision
weapons for the assassination of TRUJILLO?

Was the EXECUTIVE ACTION project iniated
or authorized during the EISENHOWER Admin-
istration?

of

32423543 Page 43

Docla
