# docid-32298846

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10224-10126

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-88

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/25/1960

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, CONFERENCE, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32298846

381

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev.

12-13-56)

FBI

Date: 11/25/60

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL

Via

TO

FD -210 des Priorily or Method of Mailing)

: DIRECTOR, FBI (97-3171)

FROM

: SAC, CHICAGO (92-349)

SUBJECT: SAMUEL I. GIANCANA

WEEKLY SUMMARY AIRTEL

OG 6313-C* advised on 11/21/60

FRANK FERRARO and

HY GODFREY

date HURRAy LUMPE hold conference with crAtcan.

arrangements

place unknown. 4

PCI GLADYS EBLE advised on 11/23/60 that

that date GIANCANA was observed at the Armory Lounge,

Forest Park,

Illinois, with numerous other unidentified

individuals.

(4)

CG 6379-C advised on 11/22/60Lthat he has

been propositioned lecently by CHARLES NICOLETTI and

WILLIAM "POTATOES" DADDANO to perior some knowa

errands in the forest park, linois,

ares, on honday night.

DADDANO and NICOLETTI are close associates and lieutenants

Of GIANCANA. The possibility exists that CG 6379-C may

act as a courier as his assignment. This matter is

being closely followed. (4)

The following Special Agents are being assigned.™

principally to the GIANCANA investigation and additional

Special Agents will be assigned as development of

GIANCANA's finances warrant:

SA RALPH R. HILL

SA VINCENT L. INSERRA

92-3171-800

•. Bureau

ChicagoN?:

ANED

NOV 28 1960

nick

HIDS: meg

(4)

KROT

Approved

57 DEC

Sent

Per.

gies Agent in Charge

DocId: 32298846

Page 2

---

