# docid-32310664

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10306-10073

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-96445-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MCCANN, JOSEPH P.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

05/15/1961

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

SAF, PEREZ, ANTONIO PEREZ. Y, ASSOC, PRO-CASTRO ACT,

DESCR, BKG, RES, EMP, MEETINGS, INTV, NUMEROUS

INDIVIDUALS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32310664

Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

• N0

Belmont

Dunn

REC- 50:

ATE INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIM IS UNCIASSIFIED EXCEFT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

FOR STONT](S)

June ly 1961

11-3-94

lassified by SPotke ch

Declassy On: OARJER 13435

RO S

ANTONIO FERCE I FREE,

also known as

Antonto Mariano Perez

Reference is made to our nemorandum

dated

April 140

1961, entitled Manuel Enrique Pereira.

on April 20, 1yo1, urs. darlene Hae Worrow, 1490

Northwest 39th Street, Liams, Florida, advised that she hus

noun Antonio Perez, uno is headualter on the ss lorida,"

since January, 196l

She stated that Feres and his friend

Manuel Pereira are definitaly pro-lastro and have continuolly

expressed sympathy for the Cuben Government and dislike for

the attitude of the united siates toward Cuba. she advised

that on one occasion Perez and she went to a restourant in

Nassau, Bahamas, where they met a Guben who taught physical

education in a publio school in Nassau. According to

Durse Worrow,

this teacher woe very much pro-castro.

The above is furnished for your information.

105-96445-

2 = London

1 = 105-96444 (Pereira)

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit

MAILED EROM DIVISION ENE

1961

DEMO

(10)

NOTE:

Data received

by miamt indicates that subject and

Pereira, who are members of the crew of the ss "floridas" are

very much pro-Castro. Reportedly, the above ships makess two.

Tolson

Parsons-

Mohi -

Belmont

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans -

a Malone

Rosen

Tavel -

Pereira.

Trotter

It appears that pro-castro feelings of the physical

education teacher mentioned above would be of interest to

Tell authorities fin Nassau.

Tele. Room

Teacher not further identified by worrow.;

Gany 56 JU

967

ELETYPE UNIT

ESCRET

RECORDED

100-167

PY FILED PI

105*

9644

DocId:32310664

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Report Perm.

FD-263 (5-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

Office of Origin

SECRET

Investigative Period

MIAMI

MIAMI

MAY 1 5 1961

2/20-5/4/61

ITLE OF CASE

CHANGED:

Report made by

JOSEPH P. McCANN

ANTONIO PEREZ I PEREZ, aka,

Antonio Mariano Perez

CHARACTER OF CASE

11-4-94

Classinted by SARMAC

IS - CUBA

Declassity en:

RA - CUBA

545110-217

Typed By:

:ush

18

The title of this report is being marked changed to

indicate subject's full name, ANTONIO PEREZ

In the files of Immigration and Naturalization Service, Miami

ind the name Antonio Mariano Perez as set forth in the record:

of the Penisular and Occidental Steamship Company, Miami.

REFERENCES:

Miami letter to Bureau, 2/20/61; 105-96445-1

Miami letter to Bureau, 4/21,61,

entitled Cuban Intelligence Activities

in the United States,

Internal Security -

Cuba; 1

Bulet to

Miami, 4/13/61, entitled MANUEL

ENRIQUE PEREIRA, Internal Security - Cuba;

Registration Act - Cuba.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

-P-

DECLASSINIGATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

LEADS

IN THIS DOCUMENT,/

9-12

MIAMI

Approved

Copies made:

2

N. 6.

Bureau

(RM)

INS,

Miami

(FFA-10348939) (RM)

Miami (105-3586)

зір

Special Agent

In Charge

Do no it i one on 1-91 551).

105-90445

REC- 251

AGI - 23

& MAY 13 1961 •

X113

1H58

6A02 § 30!

For

to pied

Copy to: CIA/State/RAB

ONI/OSI/G2

by routing

shp for info.

Date She

-Mai by

CLASSIFIEO BY 5668 SLO/GC

/st:

SECRET

DECLASSES ON: 25%0

(6)

TFRS 4/5/88

+79905674

Froperty

öf FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBI,

and neither it nor its

contents

are to be

distributed

outside the agency to which

loaned.

# U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1955 0-344750

DocId: 32310664

Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-3585

SECRET

INFORMANTS

Identity

MM T-I is ANDREW McCREADIE,

Special Assistant to the

Vice President of the

Penisular and Occidental

Steamship Company, Pier 2,

Miami, Florida.

MM T-2 is MM 726-S, used to

characterize SANTIAGO

ALVAREZ

MM T-3 is MM 492-S, used to

characterize "La Epoca"

Location

MM file 105-3585, Ser. 4

Municipal Pier #2

Miami, Florida

MM I-5 is Mrs. MARY OTERO,

PSI (under development), who

made available a roll book

maintained by FEDERICO OTERO CALERO,

which contains the current

membership list of the 26th of

July Club of Miami

Instant report, page

5

MM file 97-268, Ser. 300

.. =

(COVER PAGE)

SECRET

354-19993

DocId: 32310664

Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 105-3586

SECRET

Informants who were

sted negatively are

as follows:

MM 492-S by SA JAMES D. HAYES on 4/19/61

MM 724-S by SA JAMES D. HAYES on 4/19/61

MM 723-S by SA WILLIAM P. KELLY on 4/18/61

MM 639-S by SA ROBERT JAMES DWYER on 4/21/61

MM 726-S by SA LEMAN L. STAFFORD, JR. on 4/21/61.

WILFREDO ROBAINA, PSI, by SA WILLIAM G. FRIEDEMANN

on 4/21/61.

RICARDO MADAN RIVAS, PSI, by SA THOMAS H. ERRION,

on 4/26/61.

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and "T" symbols were utilized only in those

instances where it was necessary to conceal their identities.

Sources who furnished information concerning the

26th of July Club of Miami, Florida, were AL TARABOCHIA,

Dade County Department of Public Safety; AL CANTA, Immigra-

tion and Naturalization Service, Miami.

Defected members

of the 26th of July Club, who were contacted were ALCIDES

GONZALEZ GONZALEZ, former president, and RANULFO SIERRA Y

FERNANDEZ, former treasurer. The confidential source

mentioned

in the characterization is MARY OTERO, PSI

(under development) •

INS

REVIEWED BY FEMUFA TASK FORCE

ON

9/4/92 dat

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

- D*

(COVER PAGE)

TRONG!

SECRET

300-1001

DocId: 32310664

Page 5

---

