# docid-32299555

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10225-10335

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-30067-115

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: OFFICE OF SECURITY, DOS

TITLE:

DATE: 09/17/1959

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JOP, REL, TRA, EMP, MOSCOW

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: .IB; 1C

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

02/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.l

DocId: 32299555

18

Page 1

---

## Page 2

0 1.

1- Liabaon Section

BIT.

Co11

0/97

CLASSIFIED BY 566831

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

BY COURIER SUC:

52 SEP 1.

COMM a Han

Tolson

Belmont

DeLoach -

McGuire. -

Mohr -

Parsons .

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

uf. Sullivan =

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION: AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFOMM

IN THIS DOCUMENT. 6MB

200-335709

200•30067

010.40

i said

SECRES

Date:

1'00

Soptender 1%, 2959

Office of seoursbu

sopartnont of State

ATE INPORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSITIED BEGAP

REDRE SHOWN OTHERWISE..

ETOe

Subjoots

doh?

Soger HOOUsT, 15T0049Y

JOHN PITIMAL

SEOURITE LATTER • C

MABGARETE ADLEY PITIIAN

INTERNAL SECURITY C

declassity. on: OADR JEK

Rogerence so nade to my previous communscatione

to your nepermont coptioned as aboua.

Informasten has been Focalved that aubjecto

and their tun children deported San Franotaco, Collfornia,

on Septenber 159

1959, and planned to depart fron New York,;

Now Fort, for Le Haure,

on September 17,

2850.

trone, on the french liner, "slanders,"

Into matuer hes been reLerrod to the Logod Atueanes

in porta, Landory Bonly

and sono low contact with approarsatel

security seruices to recesue any pertinent sapornation theu

may develop regarding the subjecte unsle they are trausting

is the nreas covered by the legal abtachees However, thie

BurBaN Muld apprectate any pertinent information that your

Deportent or the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) may

recRiue regarding the aubjecta in other courbries where

No additional infornation has been recedued

to

aubstenötate the

intalal intentions of subjects to

travel so inland, tell last tomony for the purpose

2. = Paris (Enclosures 2).

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO /0O - 30060

- LONCON SEE NOTT PAGE THEI

SEE NOTE ON TELLA PAGE

• BORD SEL NOLLATAGE TWO

• San FraNCISCO SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

20 SEP 181959

I = Los Angeles SEE NOTE PAGE THO

1 - Toreign Listson Untt (route through for revier)

SHEIL SECRET

• MAIL ROOM

1959

DocId: 32299555

Page 2

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

---

## Page 3

Office of security

Department of state

of locating relatives and property interests of largarete

Pittmato" However, information los been recelued indioating

that subjecte have definite plans to travel to Moscow

where John Pittman will serue as a correspondent for

"The torkeт."

Information has been recedued that aubjects

will obtain utoas for travel to Moscow from the embasay

in Parts, Irance, some tine after their arrival in france.

I Director

Central Intelligence Agenoy

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

ATTENTION®

LEGAL ATTACHES,

LONDON. PARIS, BONN. ROME, AND. SAC.

SAN FRANCISCO

Enclosed for Logal Attache, Pario, are o memorandun

concerning Margarete Pittman and & nemorandum concerning

John Pittman.

Londor, Rome, and Donn have previoualy

been furnished background information concerning aubjects

(SLand requested to alert their sources. Legal Attaches, Parie,

Bond, Bone, and London, should renain espectally alert

for any information to further substantiate subjects"

intemusons to go to dosaow and mediavely advise tre

BATEAU.

Legal Attache, Parts, Ls requested to alert IS

his sources and place appropriate atops with them. Any

information coming to his attention concerning travel

plans of aubjectal to countries other than those covered s

Dy Legaz Attached chould De immediate lU furnished to GIA.J(AU)

Acusse the buredu of onupertinent information recelved

я слив пастет. (моилсев тау ое гитпиалее опротнайов S

Indioating that Pittman and hia Jantly have intentions

to travel to loacow.

Margarete Pittman is a heu figure,

Ban Franoisod origin, and John Pittnan is an olendecurity

Inder of the too angeles Office.

Legal Attache, Pari8,

should also attempt to verify the lasuence of visas ta

subjecte in Parla and immediately adulae the BureaU (5

IDENTIAL

SECRET

7-8.4

DocId: 32299555 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONEI

TIA L

REM

Office of security

Department of state

NOTE ON FELLOW:

Legal attache, Paris, is being advised not

furnish lources the inpormation conderning Pittrans LS.

possible travel to Moscou as this information has been

obtatred only from MY 694-S and CG 5824-S, highly placed

informants.

This information hos not been received from

any other sources and it is believed this information should

not be furnished to sources overseas in an effort to further (S

protect the identity of these informants.

Other Legal Attaches

have been aimilarly advised.

Letter classifted "Confidential"

as it contains information obtained fron confidential

informants, the unauthorized disclosure of which could

reasonably result in thei tdentification and compromiae

future effectiveness thereof.

IA'L.

RECHEME

DocId: 32299555

Page 4

---

