# docid-32325871

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Ferm

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90038-10060

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-4930-53

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

CG

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: • 09/24/1969

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

JAMES HENRY DOLAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER; TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

• 05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32325871

Page 1

31

---

## Page 2

Pres? 47.1

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL

FORM

NO. 10

1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR 141 CFR) 101-10:

UNITED STA.. GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-4930)

DATE:

9/24/69

SAC, CHICAGO (92-865) (P)

JAMES HENRY DOLAN, aka

(00: Dallas)

Re Chicago letter to Dallas, 9/5/69, (IO) and

Dallas letter to Chicago, 9/16/69.

Referenced Chicago letter furnished background

information and current activities regarding DOLAN while

in Chicago.

Information was furnished by ROBERT E. FRANKLIN

(protect) presently at 2311 Commonwealth, Chicago, whom

DOLAN had lived with at 423 Wrightwood since coming to

Chicago in November, 1968.

According to FRANKLIN, DOLAN has since moved from

chicago.

FRANKLIN received a letter from DOLAN postmarked

August 2, 1969, from Denver, Colorado, with a Reno, Nevada

return address

of 1275 Fairfield Avenue.. It is to be noted

that this address is that of DOLAN's mother. Enclosed in

this letter were two keys to the FRANKLIN's apartment at

423 Wrightwood.

It is apparent that DOLAN is not establishing a

permanent residence in Chicago. Chicago feels that it

would be premature to transfer office of origin at this time

in view of information which would indicate DOLAN is no

longer in Chicago and in view of information furnished by

FRANKLIN that DOLAN travels extensively.

DOLAN SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS

AS HE HAS

IDENTIFIED

PARTICIPANT

ROBBERY

WITH FIREARMS AND HAS BEEN KNOWN TO BE IN POSSESION OF

FIRBARMS IN THE PASTOUINCIH

НАСТУГ ІНАСОД 1

REC 27

EX 113

92-4950-53

Enrobed

ild

15. SEP 29

1969

- Bureau

2

- Dallas

1 - Chicago

BFK/ess

(5)

(92-292)

Rital,

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan, 036 MOPP D

5010-108-02

DocId: 32325871

Page 2

---

