# docid_32310880

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10308-10094

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-788

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/03/1962

1

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, ASSOC, SKAR, MANNY, B/F INT, SAHARA INN NORTH

MOTEL

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32310880 Page 1

339

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIOA

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUL 3 1962

TELETYPE

PM JLS

Mr. Tolson

Belmont.

My. Mohr..

Vr. Callahan

Ir. Conrad

Mr.

De Loach

Mr.

Evans

Mr. Malone:

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel

-Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy_

DEFERRED

7-3-62-3-33

DIRECTOR /92-3171/

FROM SAC,,

CHICAGO 192-3491 1P

SAMUEL MO

GIANCANA, AKA, AR•

9

DAILY SUMMARY. PCIL

CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF CHICAGO HOOD-

LUMS THROUGH BUSINESS DEALINGS IN JEWELRY BUSINESS, ADVISED

YESTERDAY, HE IS, WELL ACQUAINTED WITH MANNY: SKAR, OWNER OF RECORD OF

THE SAHARA INN NORTH MOTEL, STATES IN HIS OPINION, SKAR IS NOT

FINANCIALLY EQUIPPED ENOUGH TO AFFORD SUCH AN ESTABLISHMENT,

HOWEVER, INFORMANT FEELS THAT THE CHICAGO ORGANIZATION, VIA:

GIANCANA, DOES NOT BELIEVE AT THIS TIME THAT AN ESTABLISHMENT SUCH

*AS

THE SAHARA IS WORTH AN INVESTMENT OF THE MAGNITUDE REQUIRED. THE

WORD IS ACCORDING TO SOURCE, THAT IF THE SAHARA PROVES TO BE A

WORTH WHTLE INVESTMENT, THE ORGANIZATION WILL THEN MOVE IN

AND

TAKE IF OVER. (U)

GEORGE VYRDA, PCI, AND ALDERMAN FOR VILLAGE OF BERWYN, ADVISED

THAT SEVERAL MONTHS AGO, SKAR APPROACHED HIM WITH THE REQUEST IDE

OPERATE A FLOATING CRAP GAME IN THE VILLAGE OF BERWYN, WHICH

REQUEST WAS TURNED DOWN. HE STATES HE IS ACQUAINTED WITH SKAR,

ONE g FOL T9 1962392 REC-10

ARMED AND DANGEROUS. (U)

END ACK AND HOLD CO

ST-102

MOGA DA HOLDING

20-317÷588

3171-788

-SO SUL E

1962

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASS5P50s6/

DATE 4-23-84

OTHER 4

NW 45792 DocId:32310880 Page 2

---

