# docid-32310700

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10307-10004

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-607

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/01/1962

1

SGI, ASSOC, CIP

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

DocId: 32310700

288

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1-41 (Rev. 6-2-61)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr _

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans L

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram.

Gandy

Ax Radio

DEFERRED

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE 4•20-84

HENDIN IS UNCLASSINED

2-1-62

- BYSP5RJ6

• Teletype

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO 011521

SAMUEL MO

GIANCANA, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY. REFER

INFORMATION PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED PERTAINING TO AN INTERVIEW

WITH FRANK ANNUNZIO, WHEREBY ANNUNZIO REQUESTED THAT THE

INTERVIEW BE HELD IN CONFIDENCE. ACCORDING TO CG 6498 PC,

ANNUNZIO WENT DIRECTLY TO JOHN D' ARCO AND REPORTED THE FACT

THAT HE HAD BEEN INTERVIEWED BY BUREAU AGENTS REGARDING

GIANCANA AND MURRAY HUMPHREYS. NOTED THAT ANNUNZIO HAS BEEN

ASSIGNED SYMBOL NUMBER CG 6514 PC, AS A POSSIBILITY OF

DEVELOPMENT UNDER THE TOP ECHELON

CRIMINAL INFORMANT PROGRAM.

IN VIEW OF HIS APPARENT CLOSENESS AND LOYALTY TO JOHN D' ARCO,

AND THEREFORE D'ARCO'S ASSOCIATES, IT IS FELT THAT HIS

POTENTIAL IS NOW GREATER FOR FUTURE DEVELOPMENT. FURTHER

INTERVIEWS WITH ANNUNZIO ARE CONTEMPLATED IN THE NEAR FUTURE.

NOTED THAT JOSEPH GLIMCO, CHICAGO TH, WAS INTERVIEWED REGARDING

HIS ASSOCIATION WITH GIANCANA AND OTHERS, AND ALTHOUGH HE

ADMITTED BEING AGQUAINTED WITH GIANCANA, STATED THAT HE HAS

NEVER ASKED GIANCANA FOR ANYTHING, BUT IF GIANCANA ASKED A

FAVOR OF HIM, HE, GLIMCO, WOULD DO EVERYTHING IN HIS POWER TO

OBLIGE. ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED:

1:24 PM BMP

REG- 14

92-3122-407

16 FEB 5 1962

EX - 107.

3 FEB 8 1962

above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

DocId: 32310700 Page 2

---

