# docid-32339403

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90148-10011

RECORD SERIES: HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-184369-9-228

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

06/19/1974

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

• RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF USA

COMMENTS: LHM, REFERRED TO USA

v9.1

DocId: 32339403

Page 1

---

## Page 2

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CG 105-27305 Sub G

TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Chicago, Illinois

June 19, 1974

SECRET

REVOLUTIONARY UNION (RU)

FOREIGN CONTACTS) * (U)

USAG 6104s

...a.

Information contained herein is unclassified

except where shown otherwise.!

The RU was founded in early 1968 and

is a militant, semiclandestine organization.

• Its objectives, as set out in its publications,

are the development of

a united front against

imperialism, the fostering of revolutionary

working-class unity and leadership in struggle,

and the formation of a communist party based

on Marxism-Leninism-MAO Tse-tung thought,

leading to the overthrow of the United

States Government by force and violence. U

During the months of February, March and April,

1974, first source advised the RU National Headquarters,

401 South 6th Avenue, Maywood, Illinois, which utilizes

a mailing address of

RU, Post Office Box 3486, Merchandise

Mart, Chicago, Illinois

60654, has received correspondence

the following organizations and individuals outside

the united states on dates indgoated: *

MONTES

XU) 1/23/98

"assified

Sp&MAC/SAT

Geclassily on:

Clas

SECRET

lesslyled by 6607

relicini

CLASS.

PY':

DATE

Sources whose identities are

concealed herein have furnished

reliable information in the past

except where otherwise noted.

1711004

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of

the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is the property

of the Federal

Bureau of Investigation and is loaned to your

agency; it and

its contents are not to be distributed

APPROPPER!

gency.

+05-184-369-9-228

ANIT

ENCLOSURE

SLIP (5)

DATE_

DocId: 32339403

Page 2

---

## Page 3

REVOLUTIONARY UNION (RU)

FOREIGN CONTACTS A C)

Xc..

16 Sullivan Street

Toronto canada

(Marck 12, 1974) KU)

Holden

3 Host Avenue

rasthan.

London E12

(March 21k

1974)

(a/u

Richard Gibson

32 Har tswood Road

Lebruavy,;

(February

March 25, 1974)

SECRET

ENgLANd

73 Baldwin H1

Toronto. Canada,

(February 7, 1974) 18)(U)

Roy Upandranat - 11

tra Box Matelli.

Dish Jalpaiguri

i vi

"(February 14, 1974)

'Weber

605 Offenbach H/Main. GerMAny WesT

(February 18, 1974)

AMEX - Canada

•Box 187 Station D

Toronto,

Canada

(March 22, 1974)

On May 13, 1970, second

source,

who is a confidential

source abroad, advised that AMEX-Canada is the address of

American Expatriates in Canada. • AMEX is described as a

magazine written by American expatriates (including deserters),

mainly to keep Americans in Canada informed on events effecting

or interesting to them from both the United States and Canada Co

SECRET

-

2

-

DocId: 32339403 Page 3

---

