# docid-32580602

## Page 1

IA 92-113

HPD: mjE

By letter dated 8/7/63 to the New York Office,

copies of which were also sent to 2 other offices, a copy

of the FD 302 contained in the report of SA HAROLD F.

DODGE dated 7/15/63 concerning the toll calls charged to

Robert A. Mahue & Associates was enclosed.

These offices

were requested to identify the subscribers to the toll calls

In their territory.

INFORMANTS

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and "T"

symbols were utilized only in those

instances where the identities of the sources must be

concealed.

IA T-100 and LA T-163

SA WILLIAM R. CARTER

(who resides

under

a fictitious

name in an apartment

adjacent

to ROSSELLI)

LA T-105, LA T-128

and LA T-129

LA T-110

LA 4396-0*

BETSY DUNCAN, PCI

LA I-114, LA I-138

and LA T-139

LA T-135

LA T-136

LA 4268-0

IV 2-C

HYMAN KINSBURSKY, Clerk,

U. S. Postmaster's office,

Los Angeles, California

-Ca

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32580602

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LA 92-113

HED: mjg

IA I-149

LA T-153

LA T-164

LA T-165

NANCY BRIDGES, Former PCI

and former employee Friars

Club, Beverly Hills,

California

JACK WAITERS, PCI

ARNOLD HOFFMAN, PCI

FRANKLIN P. FREEMAN,

Superintendent, West Branch

Station, U. S. Post Office,

West Hollywood, California

LEADS

LAS VEGAS OFFICE

AT LAS VEGAS, NEVADA. Will continue to conduct

Investigation concerning ROSSELLI's activities in Las Vegas.

LOS ANGELES OFFICE

AT LOS ANGELEN?

CALIFORNLA. WILL conduct continuing

investigation concerning ROSSELLI's activities.

-D*-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32580602

Page 2

---

