JFK Assassination System.
Identification Form

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

FBI
124-90084-10014

HQ

CR 105-97459-210-524

Document Information
FBI
WMFO
HQ

12/12/1968
4

LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA
NATIONALITY GROUP COVERAGE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

07/14/1998

INDEFINITE,

MEMO

v9.1

DocId:32329033 Page 1



FORM NO. 10
Stave toesEDrrion
GSA FPMR (a crn) s0r-118 wn

UNITED STATES GOV: »NMENT aoe

Memorandum

: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-97459-210) pate: 12/12/68

# |. B)
supjecr; NATIONALITY GROUP COVERAGE - -_ CUBA

: SAC, WFO (134-4179)

IS - CUBA
(00 : BUREAU)

ReWFOlet 9/12/68.

As previously set forth, WFO has determined through
existinge coverage that there are no active anti-CASTRO groups
at the present time in Washington, D. C. (WDC).

In relet, WFO advised that an event to commemorate
the 100th Anniversary of the "Grito de Yara’‘/"' marking the be-
ginning of the Cuban struggle for liberation from Spain, was
to be held 10/12/68 in WDC, CS PED. TENZAXESCOBAR_furnishe:
a copy of the invitation to the “aiair; which indicated it

was being supported and organized by the following organizations?

Centro Benefico ‘Ranamericano (CBP)
Movimiento Democrata Cristiano de Cuba en el Exilio (M. D. C.)
Consejo Nacional de Beteranos de la Independencia
Confederacion de Trabajadores de Cuba en el Exilio (C.T.C.E.)
Comandos 'L'

Consejo Obrero Revolucionario Independiente (C.0.R.1.)
Asociacion de Contadores Publicos y Privados
Representacion Cubana del Exilio’ (R.E.C.E.)

Junta Revolucionaria Cubana (J.U.R.E.)

Union de Cubanos encél Exilio (U.C.E.)

Forum Universitario de a Aeekee Cubanas

@ Bureaw’/
2 - WFO
(1 - 105- 29955)

DJF :bbh
(4)

p 1 JAN De ABB sovine ph “fh, on the ki Sav Bs i.

DocId:32329033 Page 2



WFO 134-4179

ey

P f CS PEDRO ENTENZA ESCOBAR and former CS WF GERARDO
MOBY ADELIT. advised as follows regarding the above listed § groups:

CBP_; This is a new group being organized by GERARDO
MORA ADELIT to furnish medical and educational services ‘to
Latin Americans in the WDC area. It is not a revolutionary -
group,-and is not restricted to Cubans or any other group, in
that any Latin American can join with payment of small monthly
dues. There ate 11 similar non-profit organizations in Miami
and 4 in New York City. The group has no physical assets yet,
although creratgdacch she are some doctors interested and will-

ing to cooperat ith the group. In addition to MORA as Pres- ;
ident, Dr, DA ANDERS, a medical doctor who lives in WDC - :

and practices ip/ifaryland, is Director of the organization,
and Dr. JOAQ| IEDRA is Assistant Director, PIEDRA: is from

Virginia and has his practice there. :
a
M.D.C. -_ Monsignor BOZH|MASVIDAL froma zuela is \
the over-all head of this orgdnization. JESUS¥ MUY , "i
rghitect, is the WDC area representative, an@_ LAUR! ISTA ~
is the national representative of this group.” BATISTA 7

“"recently moved to ‘the WDC area from Miami. The headquarters }

a,

and membership of the M.D.C. is in Miami, and the group has
no activities, meetings, or members in the WDC area.

NSEJO. NACION DE LA, INDEPENDENCIA _-.
Lt. (FN TLLALOBOBS of iof this group. It has f/;?
no local representative or membership. :

C.T.C.Es, - suseaag fia is the national_representative... '
of this group, which has headquarters in Miami, MUJAL resides se :

' in the WDC area. :
y,
_songysirt Z¥FEBLES, from WOC, is
eof this group which has been dis- i

ere

DocId:32329033 Page 3



r
ve

WFO 134-4179

if er
C.O.ReL. - (FNU)YSOSA, probably vroeries, is the PG
WDC area a representative, £ "this group, which has’ Headquarters ~

in Miami” 5

FERNANDEZ, a public accountar is the area ‘representative Cait
* of : “this” group, Which ha has hea headquarters in Miami.

-R:E.C.E. - GERARDO MORA ADELIT (the* *gource) is the
area representative of this group, which ‘also “has its head-
quarters in Miami.’

JwU.R.E. - Dr. PEDRO ENTENZA, a lawyer from WDC area,
is the local or area representative, and the group is head-
quartered in Puerto Rico, (It is noted that ENTENZA is a CS
OF - WFO).

UCeEe - € LASTRE, who works at or runs a printing
1 office in woc, and whose wife works for the Pan American Union,
4 is the WDC area representative of this group, which has head-
quarters in Miami.

i FORUM UNIVERSITARIO DE INVESTIGACIONES CUBANAS -

2 This is a new group composed of young people, students in dif-
ferent universities in the WDC area, It is an intellectual,
cultural group, not a revolutionary, political group. The
leader, if there is one, is not known to the sources,

The sources advised that none of the above groups
had any active membership, and did not conduct meetings or
other activities in the WDC area with the exception of special
events, such as the Grito Commemoration.

: The various groups were used as sponsors of the
i Grito to generate interest in the event, and to insure a large
g ’ : g

turnout. The representatives of the groups are representatives

: Pp’ & 'P P

i in name only, since the organizations represented are more or

izations

| less paper organ: °

i

,

4

pus: je

(eagisesaaie

ASOCIACION DE CONTADORES PUBLICOS Y PRIVADOS - ARMANDO Dea

DocId:32329033 Page 4


WFO 134-4179

As indicated in relet, information was received
indicating the M.D.C. was believed to be reorganizing in the
WDC area, but based on the above information,it does not appear
it has been successful to date. The national coordinator of
the M.D.C., LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA, recently moved to the WDC
area from Miami, and, although studying for a Ph. D. at a local
university, may take steps to organize the M.D.C. in WDC,

WFO will follow developments in this matter.

In connection with the interview program in progress
in WFO, it is pointed out that 7 individuals, owner of various
businesses in the WDC Metropolitan area, have Deen interviewed
for the purpose of evaluating their potenti sourngés
informants, Thusfar, one individual, MARI ‘EGOR I, EZ,
AmericanaDriving School, Arlington, Virginia, appears to have
potentraras"a PSs "The ‘Bureau will be advised under separate
caption in this regard.

It is also noted that on 10/20/68, a group of about
25 anti-CASTRO Subans, including women and children, assembled
in a peaceful demonstration near the White House, in protest
of the recent arrest in Miami, Florida, of ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA,
MIRR leader, VALERIO CAPOTE MORENO, self identified as WDC’
area delegate of MIRR, applied for the permit and acted as
spokesman for the group. CAPOTE is to be contacted to ascertain
the current status of MIRR in WDC,

:

soy

DocId:32329033 Page 5
