# docid-32292081-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10208-10357

HQ

105-98177-47

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CONWAY, JOHN FRANCIS

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/11/1967

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

LHJ, REFUSED, FBI, INTV, CUBAN ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF INS, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO INS

v9.1

12

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 3-8-67)

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIDENTIAL

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

NEW YORK

DEO 1 1 1967

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

11/9-11/29/67

REPORT MADE BY

TYPED BY

LOUIS HENRY

JONES

JOHN

FRANCIS CONWAY

CHARACTER OF CASE

adg

REFERENCE

K:

at NYC.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDOR,

IS - CUBA

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.JM

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

AND FIELD 01

ADVISED BY R

VICES

SLIP (S) OF

VITING

DATE

6-25-97

SID/KER

1-25-97 (JFK)

Report of SA RUSSELL P. CURTIS, dated 11/21/66,

-C_

CLASSED B4+668 Sud

DECASSIFY ON: 25X.

VIC. AUTO

INFORMANTS

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWD OTHERWISE.

The following informants were contacted as indicated

negatively concerning the subject.

Identity of Source

Date of Contact

MY (512S

4764/s (4)

NY

3164-S

11/13/67

11/13/67

11/13/67

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FUG.

FINES

SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT-

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR EYES DNO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

EYES DINO

APPROVED

COPIESMA

DE:

TAL AGENT

SHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105-98127-4 7REC ZE

Bureau

(105-98177) (RM)

-

Secret Service,

NYC (RM)

1

- New York (105-49813

11-28-74

5P&MAC

Classified

(JEK)

Declassify

on: DADR

249941

9/4/84

Disseminatión Recordlof

Aftached,Report

Copy t

y routing nio for sili

15 DEC 13 1967

Agency

Request Recd.

Date F'wd.

How Fwd.

By

ente

12

ПЕС

I Notations bit st!

LATIN

2376148 C

vEto

CIASS. & DXY. BYSRUSEMIUA

REASON FCIM

1-2.4.2.

DATE SA REVIEN

AALIRLATIA

12 - 1-8,

€ 6DEC 12 1967

---

## Page 3

TLINGOUNOgTIAL

NY 105-49813

INFORMANTS Con't

Identity of source

NY 3467-S

Date of Contact

11/20/67

11/20/67

11/20/6713

11/20/6710

11/20/674

11717/67

11/15/67

11/16/67

11/17/67

11/16/67

11/16/67

11/15/67

11/15/67

- B

COVER

PAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

908-10723

---

## Page 4

FiD-3O5 (Rev. 5-3-66)

NY 105-49813

1. X Subject's name is int

CONPIDENTIALA

uded in the Security Index.

2.

3.

X The data appearing on the Security Index card are current.

• Inoeai.e

Changes on the Security Index card are

necessary and Form FD-122

has been submitted to the Bureau.

A suitable photograph D is I is not available.

Date photograph was taken -

5.

I Subject is employed in a key facility and .

is

charged with security responsibility. Interested agencies are

6. L This report is classified

(state reason)

- because

7. L Subject previously interviewed (dates)

I Subject was not reinterviewed because (state reason)

subject through wife refused interview at INS,

NYC, in June, 1967. Subject refused interview with

on 8/26/66, and 9/1/66.

8.

This case no longer meets the Security Index criteria and a letter

has been directed to the Bureau recommending cancellation of the

Security Index card.

9. Ex This case has been re-evaluated in the light of the Security Index

criteria and it continues to fall within such criteria because

(state reason)

subject, an American citizen, was in Cubt he was

1961 through 1966, and had indicated that

.in agreement with the policies of FIDEL CASTRO.

10.

Ex Subject's SI card Dis x is not tabbed Detcom.

• Subject's activities warrant Detcom

tabbing because (state. reasons)

- C*

COVER

PAGE

JATA 3013400)

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 5

UNTED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

1 - SECRET SERVICE, NYC (RM)

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

JOHN FRANCIS CONWAY

0E0 1 1 1967

105-49813

LOUIS HENRY JONES

Office:

New York, New York

Bureau File #:

105÷981779 :

11-1-94

SAS FACE

AlL OPUSTAN PONENED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Character:

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

DATE &/,

14/0

914/84

50.6 BiA/PSK 24991)

Synopsis:

Subject resides with his wife at 340 Haven Avenue,

Apartment 5S, NYC, and is enrolled at Teachers

College, Columbia University, 525 West 120th Street, in the

current

In June, 1967,

through his wife, subject refused to be interviewed by

Subject's

identification record set forth. Confidential informants

familiar with Cuban activities, in November, 1967, advised

subject unknown to them.

-C-

DETAILS

On November 21, 1967, Mr. JOHN JULIANO, Superintendent,

340 Haven Avenue, New York,

New York, advised that the

subject currently resides with his wife in Apartment 5S at

that address.

On November 27, 1967, PHYLIS PACKER, Secretary,

Registrafuse Office, Columbia University, advised SA WARREN

GORTON, ur. that the subject is currently registered in the

fall term of Teachers College, Columbia University, 525

West 120th Street, as a candidate for a doctorate.

According to Miss PACKER, their files

reflect the

subject being registered with Columbia University In the

following semesters: Spring, 1958% Fall, 1958g

Spring, 1959%

Fall, 1959, Fall, 1966s Spring; 1967; Summer, 1967. He received

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

---

## Page 6

NY 105-49813

his Master's Degree from Columbia University on February 24,

1960. Upon entrance to Columbia University, his address was

309 West 99th Street, New York City, and his current address

is listed as 340 Haven Avenue, New york city.

His date of

birth is listed

as March 17, 1934, In Arlington Heights»

Ohio.

His wife's name is given as LENNA, and his Facuty.

Advisor in 1959 was listed as LELAND JACOBS.

• 1

listed as

According to Miss Pacher, the subjectis a

candidato for a Doctor of Education degree specializing

in Psychology (measurement) and is a student in good

standing at this time.

The files of Immigration and Naturalization Service

(INS), at New York City, reflect that on June 8, 1967, the

subject's wife telephonically advised INS that both she

and her husband would not

consent to any interview by any

member of that service.

Folloing is the subject's Identification Record

maintained by the Identification Division of the Federal

Bureau of Investigation (FBI) under number 881 704 E:

Contributor of

Name and

Fingerprints

Arrested or

Number

Received

Charge

Disposition

Pub Veh Lic Comm

Chgo I11

LouiS HO

Jones #171161

appl

FP

6/30/55

ONI Wash DC

Louis Henry

Jones #300

appl

FP

3/7/57

In November, 1967, confidential informants, all

of whom are familiar with some phases

'of Pro-CASTRO Cuban

activities, were contacted and advised that the subject 1s

unknown to them.

- 2% -

998-19513

---

