cae Dee
a9 (AP 12-14-49) Tolson

5 Belmont
ee e Mobe

: DeLoact

DECODED) Copy EF

Sulliva
Tove! L anpennnant

Trotter

CO AIRGRAM “© CABLEGRAM RADIO ‘ci TELETYPE cote

4458 PM CST DEFERRED KOM 3-6-6S

DIRECTOR 7
FROM CHICAGO 05010 f
ae 1M
GUS ALEX, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY. (dey AY

CG 6502=C% ADVISBD ALEX AND SUZANNE FUEGER AGAIN
DISCUSSED LETTER FROM SWISS CONSULATE BANNING ALEX FROM
SWITZERLAND UNTIL 1975. ALEX'S CONCERN HAS INCREASED =
CONSIDERABLY AND HAS BEEN ADVISED HE HAS UNTIL MARCH 31.5
NEXT, TO APPEAL ORDER. LOH ARR EA LeMUS Tn BEnMAD Exod Qn S Tul CE
GEPARTHENT AND, POLICE, DERABTMENT.,,..B0T! L BERN, SWITZERLAND.
HE“ MUST FURNISH REASON WHY HE SHOULD HAVE RIGHT To 0 ENTER

Pe recat Sea eine OS
SWITZE SRCAND.” IF HE VIOLATES ORDER, HE (IS SUBJECT “TO ‘SIX,
eisai A MANTEL Hitga reenact NOS
WONTHS 1) IN "BR L SON TANBSOR S40 c0G0cFINE ae eX. STATES Wi
SEND. "ATTORNEY, 10 SWITZERLAND..TO..FIGHT ORDER. SINCE SOURCE

pte satan een

REVEALS ALEX HAS. D DISCUSSED BANKS IN SWITZERLAND. AND HIS.
CONCERN APPEARS EXCESSIVE, “POSSIBILITY, EXISTS. -ALEX..
HECHAYNOT“BE ABLE TO PROTECT BANK FUNDS IN SWIT ERLAND..
CHTERCOSTTCE™AWATTING FURHPER INFORMATION LEAT DARTS.
RE INVESTIGATION THERE OF FUEGER'S USE OF FALSE IDENTIFICATION. |
CHICAGO DESIROUS OF OBTAINING FULL DETAILS RE CAUSE OF es
| INVESTIGATION, SWITZERLAND AND FRANCE, AND ALSO ANY STEPS TAKEN/
' BY ALEX IN HIS BEHALF MAY DISCLOSE REAL INTEREST IN

SWITZERLAND. NOTE UPON ARRIVAL, U.S. CUSTOMS, CHICAGO,

FUEGER HAD THREE MINK COATS AND EXPENSIVE CLOTHING CONTAINING

| NO LABELS AND EIGHT PIECES EXPENSIVE JEWELRY, NOT IDENTIFIED.

et

pees bl alan TUE ees ee
{ REQUESTING “AL INFO SI SINCE CHICAGO WISHES TO “EXPLORE ALL

9 FL ae, i
hee tne
pice te faveea ied
get gSsSS SSeS cesspoeseceeeCacememecat

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably
paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau’s cryptographic systems.

Docld:32556633 Page 1
