# docid-32293065-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10210-10341

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2713-192

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

EVANS, C. A.

BELMONT

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/27/1961

3

CM, INFT, INS, BRIBERY, DELAY, DEPORTATION, ILLEGAL

ENTRY TO US

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/04/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

24

---

## Page 2

Á ::OF TONAL FORM NO. 10

JUNITED STATES GOVER

Memorandum

ENT

TO

Mr. Belmont

DATE:

6/27/61

FROM

C.

A. Evans

1771

Tolson d

Belmont

.. -Callahan -

Conrad

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter _

Tele. Room -

Ingram

Gandy

SUBJECT:

CARLOS MARCELLO

ANST-RACKETEERING

inte

Fla

Joseph

"Hegeman s

a potential criminal informant of the

Miami. Division, has advised that he heard Carlos Marcello

through his political connections intends to approach the

Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) representative who

will preside at the INS deportation hearing July 10, 1961, at

New Orleans, Louisiana. They intend to offer him a substantial

sum of money if he will delay Marcello's deportation from this

country.

This

source could not furnish further details concerning

the method to be used by Marcello in handling this matter.

Hegeman advised Marcello believes that if he can delay his

deportation long enough, his political connections and associates:

in the State of Louisiana, which allegedly include Governor James

Davis and Senator Russell B. Long, U.S. Senator (both Democrats)

may be able to have some influence in choosing the successor of.

General Swing, Commissioner, INS, who is expected to retire in the

near future.

He feels a new Commissioner would be more sympathetic

toward him than General Swing has been in the past and he may be

successful in having the Government charges dropped against him,

thus avoiding deportation from this country..

Hegeman's source for this information is William F

Abraham, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, contractor: Our New Orleans Office

advises Abraham Is possibly identical with

the former manager of

the Rendezvous Night Club, Alexandria, Louisiana, where gambling

was known to have taken place.

Between September, 1946, and October

1948, he was arrested sevén times for violation of "Sunday" laws and

gambling."

EX-116

REC 5292-2713-190

By way of background, Marcello, who was deported on

April 4, 1961,

to Guatemala, is presently free on two bonds of $10,000

One bond was provided on deportation charges for which a hearing

is scheduled July 10, 1961, at New Orleans.

The second bond is for

the subject's release on Federal criminal charges of illegal entry

into the United States from Guatemala after deportation to that country.

known whether or not these officers have been designated by

and no public release has been made as to their identities

Enclosure Reut 6-2746

1 - Mr.

kosen

1 - Mr. L'Allier

TLG: Swb (7)

(ols, seecomments pg.2)

---

## Page 3

Pain. 622

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

RE: CARLOS MARCELLO

All Offices involved in this matter have been instructed

to follow this closely and keep the Bureau informed of pertinent

developments or of additional information which would substantiate

data furnished by Hegeman.

are maintaining contact with Hegeman

for any additional information he might develop concerning this and

are alert to secure Bureau interest in the event a Bribery violation

is committed.

ACTION:

It is recommended the attached letter, if approved, be

forwarded to the Attorney General. It is also recommended our

Liaison Agent disseminate this information to INS insuring that

our source is appropriately protected.

warson advised

"OK #" 62811)

1.6.

16.

Carl Burrous o Fed Harvey, FINS

fursad destinent it above, source

es met edentified.

6/29/4

Can

-

-

---

