# docid-32201811

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

2/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER: 157-10003-10422

RECORD SERIES: MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 56792 Date:

14-12-2018

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LEGAT, MEXICO CITY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE: RAYMOND BUENROSTRO CORTEZ

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/19/1964

6

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

ASSASSINATION PLOT

CORTEZ, RAYMOND (RAMON)

CUBA - CHINA CONNECTION

CUBA - MEXICO

INTERNAL SECURITY

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

Redact

04/05/1994

box 335-5

V9.1

HH 56792

DocId: 32201811 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SO GEN 19 19 10

UNILED STATES GI ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Director, FBI (105-99401-3)

DATE:

a rest, mixico ery (208-902) sees

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

SUBJECT:

RAYMOND BUENROSTRO CORTEZ

IS - CUBA - MEXICO

DATE.

3/19/64

2-1

(OFK)

This doeument is prepared in response to your request andis not for dissemi

nation outside vour Committee. Its use is limited official proceedings but

ENCLOSURES

your Commit'e and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBl .

Enclosed herewith are 14 copies of a letterhead

memorandun dated and captioned as above.

REFERENCE

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

2/18/94 doL

Legat, Mexico City letter

to

the /Bureau dated

2/27/64.

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

ADMINISTRATIVa

TOTAL DENIAL

No dissemination of the information contained in

the enclosed letterhead memorandum has been made locally

to the United States Embassy, Mexico, D. F., inasmuch as

it is in possession of pertinent information concerning

this subject.

The interview of J. JESUS RAMIREZ TAMAYO contained

in the enclosed letterhead memorandum was conducted by

SAS EDWIN O. JOHNSON and HENRY J. PRATT.

All other interviews

of individuals conducted in Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico,

were conducted by SA JOHNSON.

SOURCES

y couting «lip fcz

3 into

n_ 5/53154

Identity of Source

T-1 1s &

File Location

MAR 2G 1954-

T-2 1s

Bureau (Enes: 14)

PilA

(1

-Liaison

Section)

(1

- Dallas) (Info.)

REG- 31

(2

- San Antonio,

105-2927)

(1

- Miami, 105-8483) (Info.)

2 - Mexico City

(1 - 105-3702) (Oswald Gory lo: CIA ScenAO regal

JRG: Jhk

(8) v

by routing alip for into.

105-

99401-0

MAN 2 4.105

17 56792

DooId: 32201811

Page 2

UNREC COPY AND COPY OF ENMI TUT 6N

---

## Page 3

MC 105-3791

T-3 is

CLASSIFICATION

The enclosed letterhead memorandum has been

classified

inasmuch as it contains information

from security informants operating in a foreign field, the

disclosure of whose identities could be inimical to the

national defense interests of the United States.

COPIES

Copies of instant communication and the enclosed

letterhead memorandum have been designated for the information

of the Dallas and Miami offices in view of their interest in

this matter.

HH 56792 DocId: 32201811

Page 3

---

## Page 4

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Washington,

D.

March 19, 1964

C.

RAYMOND BUENROSTRO CORTEZ

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

This document cuntains neither

207 i cradlusions of

the 22l 126a protect

the Pail Cute i ain

**** agency;

it and is center are but to ba

distributed chic. your agray.

(702)

* 25*2930 • # 18

on February 28, 1954, T-l, who has furnished

reliable information in the past, stated that inquiry

in the vicinity of where the address Avenida Independencia

No. 15, Mexico, D. F., Mexico, should be located disclosed

no such building number as 14 and no information indicating

that the subject still maintained or had maintained an

office in that vicinity.

On March 5, 1964, T-2, who has furnished reliable

information in the past, stated

that it was ascertained

that there is a Calzado

(shoe factory) located at Calle 56,

Sector Reforma 334, Guadalajara, Jalisco.. Mexico, which is

named Calzado Clarice-Creaciones Unicas.

According to T-2

this factory has been closed because of a strike since

JaRE AM, nd the pe cente factory seated s

t-2 stated that

the watchman at the factory was not acquainted with the

subject.

On March 5, 1964, J. JESUS RAMIREZ TAMAYO, Mexican

Federal Penitentiary, Guadalajara, stated that he is the

owner of the firm known as Calzado Stella.

He advised that

he owns 180 of the 200 shares outstanding in this firm and

that he is presently incarcerated in the Penitentiary pending

the outcome of a law suit instituted against him by the

HW 56792 DocId: 32201811 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Oficina de Hacienda de Mexico (Mexican Office of the Public

Treasury) in relation to the management of the firm.

RAMIREZ

expressed confidence that this suit will be resolved in his

lavor.

RAMIREZ stated that approximately one and one-half

years ago during the time that his ownership of the firm

was under litigation, the subject "illegally" purchased the

firm. RAMIREZ claimed that he never met the subject and that

alter the subject bought the firm, he, the subject, changed

the name of the establishment to Calzado Clarice-Creaciones

Unicas.

RAMIREZ stated that he did not believe that the

subject ever maintained a residence in Guadalajara and he

had heard fron an unrecalled source in the past that the

subject was a Texan who lived in Mexico City.

On March 6, 1964, JOSE DIAL GARZA, PubliC Relations

Officer,

Sanco Industrial de Jalisco, Guadalajara, stated

that the subject had an account at that bank which was opened

in early 1952 in the name of "Calzado Clarice, Calle 56,

sector Reforma 384, Guadalajara. Those authorized to sign

checks for this account were the subject and one JOSE

MEDEROS HERNANDEZ.

According to DIAZ GARZA, the name of

MEDEROS HERNANDEZ was dropped from the account late in 1962.

DIAZ GARZA related that the subject came to Guadalajara

infrequently for brief

periods of time and was not well known

at the bank. He stated that the subject had the reputation

for being an unethical, unscrupulous businessman who was

noted for not paying his employees their full salaries.

DIAZ GARZA stated that the subject brought several

Cubans from Mexico, D. F., Mexico, to Guadalajara, to work

in the shoe factory and that MEDEROS HERNANDEZ acted as an

administrator with this firm. DIAZ GARZA stated that the

chan workers who arrived from Mexieo City were ROMERIO

AROZA, JOSS NOJUEROL and DIMAS FIGUEREDO. DIAZ GARZA

stated that he had heard nothing derogatory concerning the

above-nentioned individuals.

DIAZ GARZA informed that late in 1962, MEDEROS

HERNANDEZ was shot six times with a .22 revolver when a

man entered his room at the Genova Hotel in Guadalajara.

He stated that MEDEROS HERNANDEZ survived and that it was

his opinion that the investigation of the matter seemed to

-

HH 56792

DocId:32201811 Page 5

---

## Page 6

JEK Act 6

5. (4)

indicate that the subject had hired a gunman Irom Mexico,

D. F., to assassinate MEDEROS HERNANDEZ who had previously

clained the subject owed him money. DIAZ GARZA stated,

nowever, that the subject was never arrested.

DIAZ GARZA reported that the subject indicated

ho had bank accounts la Texas, Canada and lexico, D. 1°49e

Mexico, and had furnished an office address of Reforma

Office #404, Mexico, D. F.

He stated that the bank did not

have a home address for the subject.

On March ô, 1964, RAFAEL RODRIGUEZ, a Cuban exile

who is employed by Mexalit, 15 de Septiembre and Ferrocarril

Streets, Guadalajara, stated that he was aware that there

had been some Cuban shoemakers in Guadalajara and that one

of them had been shot.

RODRIGUEZ stated he was not personally

acquainted with these

individuals and knew nothing derogatory

concerning them.

On March 10, 1964

informed that he recalled that a Cuban had been

shot at the Genova Hotel in Guadalajara by another Cuban

but that he did not remember the name of the would-be

assassin.

He stated that the file concerning the results

of the investigation would be in the possession of the

Criminal Courts in Guadalajara.

He stated that the records

of that office contained no derogatory information concerning

the subject and no indication that an arrest order had ever

been issued for him in connection with the afore-nentioned

shooting.

4

stated on March 12, 1964, that he recalled the

shooting involving Cuban aliens in 1962 and furnished the

name of the aggressor as JOSE MIGUEL VALDEZ and the victim

a JOSE MEDEROS HERNANDEZ.

stated that the Fourth,

Criminal Court at the Penitentiary, Guadalajara, had handled

the case and the

file number was 354.3/98855.

He stated

that he had received no information indicating that the

subject was involved in the afore-mentioned shooting.

• 3.

HY 56792 DocId:32201811 Page 6

---

## Page 7

On March 12, 1964, the Secretary of the Fourth

Criminal Court, Guadalajara, stated that he could not make

the court records concerning the afore-mentioned sbooting

available for examination. He recalled, however, that be

remembered the case well and that the subject had not been

involved in it as a defendant. He added, however, that

the subject could have been called as a witness since he

On March 17, 1964, T-3, who has furnished reliable

information in the past, stated that no indication of

leftist or pro-Castro activity on the part of the subject

in Mexico had come to his attention.

HH 56792 DocId:32201811 Page

---

