# docid-32334109

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10102

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 56792 Date: 04-11-2018

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

ROSEN

TO: BELMONT

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

07/27/1961

2

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

(Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 4;10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

18

v9.1

NW 56792

DocId: 32334109

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NGO. 10

"UNITED STATES GOVEP WENT

Memorandum

TO

Mir. Belmont

FROM

A.

Rosen

DATE: July 27, 1961

SUBJECT:

CHESTER ZOCHOWSKI

INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF

STOLEN PROPERTY - TOP JEWEL THIEF

Tolson -

Belmont .

Mohi -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach.

Guston

Evang: -

Mat on -

Tavel _

Trotter -

Tele. Room _

Ingram -

Gandy

Chester Zochowski, confidential informant of the Miami Office since

7/19/60, has advised of an alleged scheme to defraud through the inflation of

across-the-counter stocks and the disposal of these stocks at an inflated price.

Zochoyski has Identified the principal individual involved in this

scheme as Arthur

Freedman, a Miami attorney, reportedly a friend and

associate of Sam Kay, Miami Beach millionaire-financier who is an associate

of criminals. This informant states that Freedman is alleged to have inflated

the value of three stocks by selling and buying to his own interest at a cost

to him of reported $60,000. These stocks were described as the American

International (Baltimore, Maryland), a utility company stock of Tampa,

Florida, and the cansportation Research and Development Company stock

whose home office is unknown.

These stocks are all across-the-counter

stocks with a paper value in excess of one million dollars; however, there

are no buyers of these stocks at that value.

Leo Sagal, Newark, New Jersey, who is a possible witness and

subject in the John Jacob Samarin case involving counterfeit Ohio Turnpike

bonds which case has been presented to the Federal Grand Jury in Miami,

Florida, reportedly is to dispose of $1, 003, 000 worth of these stocks at an

unknown bank in Boston, Massachusetts. These stocks will be put up as

security on a loan and when the loan is defaulted the stocks will have little

relative value.

REG

-6257-38

Zochowski further advised that these stocks were allegedly purchased

originally for approximately one dollar a share and through the buying and

selling of these stocks by Freedman and through his interest they have been

inflated to approximately $10 a share. A group of individuals invelying Ayseid

PAi.

a well-known Pittsburgh racketeer and hoodlum, Joseph Merola, convicted

for the theft and transportation of guns from an armory in Cantons Ohio 28

19g

1 - Informant Desk

Special Investigative Division

13

JGF: raj

(8)

66 AUG 3

1961

__coples made!

226-28 556/911

goseph

fof review at FBIHQ by

ESCAre L202f requeste

(See Bufile #62-117290)

6-998

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEO

DATE 2/31/9:

LASSIC HAO

_BY

568SE0/6c

HH 56792 DocId:32334109 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

RE: CHESTER ZOCHOWSKI

who has been out on bail pending his appeal which was denied, Mike

Swiatek,

reported Chicago burglar and friend of Merola have offered to dispose of

these stocks for Freedman.

Also included in this group is the informant,

Chester Zochowski. They will dispose of these stocks through Sagal and have

offered Freedman $4 a share for the stocks; however, he is asking $5 a

share. This group contemplates disposal of these stocks through a bank or

as collateral on a loan at between $7 and $8 a share.

The Miami Office has ascertained that the Securities and Exchange

Commission (SEC), Miami, Florida, is investigating the American Interna-

tiona. (baltimore,

Maryland, and contemplates obtaining an injunction against

the sale of the stock of this company within the near future.

ACTION:

Although the above scheme involves possible violations primarily

within the jurisdiction of SEC, the New York, Boston, Miami and Newark

Offices will thoroughly explore all facets of this scheme based on information

supplied by Zochowski in order to completely identify all individuals involved

as well as the companies being used to ascertain whether this scheme

constitutes violation within this Bureau's jurisdiction.. This matter is being

closely followed.

g

HH 56792

DocId: 32334109 Page

---

