JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10198-10319
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2781-722
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, TP
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 05/24/1963
“PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS
LST, INFORMANT, ACT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
‘ CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
* DATEOR-LAST REVIEW: _ 10/15/1998 is
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE 7
COMMENTS :

v9.1
| Docld:32288043 Page 1

26


|

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56) :
mys oo on

6

er

Transmit the following in

Via

.  € ©

PBI

Date: . 5/24/63

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)
SAC ATLANTA (92-135)

SAC MIAMI (92-88) ; wi fo

FROM: SAC, TAMPA (92-1) (P)

santo TRAFFICANTE, JR,, aka

AR :

(00: TP) Cr

WEEKLY SUMMARY

TP 97-C advised 5/13/63 that subject at 4:45 p.m, on
5/13/63 was then at the Columbia Restaurant.

Tampa Tribune, Tampa, Fla., 5/20/63, verified infor-
mation previously furnished by WILLIE MAE JACKSON, PCI (Protect)
that subject's daughter SARAH ANN is to marry 6/22/63 at 6:00 ‘**

p.m., Sacred Heart Catholic Church, RICHARD EDWARD VALDES. She.
will receive a B.A, degree in elementary education in June,

1963, from University of So, Florida and thereafter be.on the
faculty of Avondale Elementary School, Atlanta, Ga., in September,
according to the article.

Tampa Times, Tampa, Fla., 5/22/63, also verified infor-
mation that numerous showers are scheduled for the bride elect
with luncheon given by Mr. and Mrs. AUGUST PANIELLO at Columbia
for a group, and fifty guests attended shower given by CELESTE
ALMERICO, LINDA TAGLIARINI, SHIRLEY ANN VALDES, sister of
bridegroom, and ELSA VARON, Mrs. FRANK ALBANO (daughter of SAM
TRAFFICANTE) and Mrs, SAM TRAFFICANTE have invited 50 persons fo

Columbia Restaurant also,
o 7 AULA o Cd
Ree,

25 MAY 27 1963

Approved:

27

Sent ______.__M Per

__... Special Agent in
Eas wick

Docld:32288043 Page 2

