# docid-32292406-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10209-10182

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-932

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

TO:

ANDERSON, ELLIOTT W.

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 04/17/1964

PAGES:

47

SUBJECTS :

GAL, HEALTH, RES, GIRL FRIEND, TRA, ASSOC, B/F INT,

MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

399

---

## Page 2

CG 92-373

INFORMANTS

Chicago T-1 is CG 6502-C*.

• Chicago T-2 is PCI JOHN LEITH contacted by SAs ROBERT

A. COOK and ELLIOTT W. ANDERSON.

Chicago T-3 is PCI FRANK LA CROIX contacted by SAs

COOK and ANDERSON.

Chicago T-4 is CG 6538-C-TE.

Chicago T-S is NORMAN GLUBOK, Crime Reporter for

the "Chicago Daily News"

Chicago T-6 is CG 6729-C contacted by SA ROBERT

J. TOMPKINS, JT.

Chicago I-7 is CG 6443-C contacted by SAs JOSEPH G.

SHEA and WILLIAM A. MEINCKE.

Chicago T-8 is PCI. RUDOLPH RICHTER contacted by

SA AMBROSE K. LAW at Los Angeles.

ADMINISTRATIVE

The following information which was set forth on

FD 302s reflects interviews with MARLENE SLATER and SUSAN

WOODS :

Both of these girls frequent the Las Vegas area and

have intimate

information concerning hoodlums throughout the

United States.

Further, request of both SLATER and WOODS

that their identity not

become known outside the FBI and

by the Los Angeles Office that this information be set forth

in the Administrative Section of the report, these

' interviews

are therefore being set forth in this fashion.

COVER PAGE

80d-10185

---

## Page 3

IND-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

1 - USA, Chicago

Report of:.

Date:

ELLIOTT W. ANDERSON

4/17/64

Field Office File No.: Chicago 92-373

Title:

GUS ALEX

Office:

Chicago, Illinois

Bureau File No.:92-3182

Character:

Synopsis:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

ALEX still resides 1150 North Lake Shore Drive,

Chicago, Illinois.

ALEX and paramour SUZANNE FUEGER

returned to Chicago February, 1964, from their European

trip. Details of their travel and observation by foreign

police set forth. ALEX'S foot doctor interviewed and

furnished information regarding treatment and hoodlum

associates of ALEX who he treated also.

Details of

ALEX'S careful vacation of early 1964 set forth.

Information also obtained regarding financial interest

and business activities of ALEX.

-p-

1118

92-3782937

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

---

## Page 4

CG 92-373

II.

TRAVEL

The Swiss Central Police Bureau (SCPB) furnished

the following information:

The Zurich Police advised as follows:

ALEX arrived at Zurich-Kloten Airport (flight

BEA number 930 from London) on December 21, 1963, and

checked in at the "Dolder Grand Hotel," where he

had a

reservation for two single rooms. for two days.

DIETGARD FUEGER arrived in Zurich at 3:19 p.M.

on the same day by rail from Munich and checked in at the

same hotel.

On December 21 and 22, 1963, ALEX and FUEGER did

not leave the hotel at any time and had no visitors.

regard to telephone calls, it was established that ALEX

rang the local TWA office on December 22, 1963, to find out

whether there are any direct flights from Athens to Munich.

further telephone call was made the following day when ALEX

contacted the Hertz Company of Zurich, Lagerstrasse 33, to

inform this firm that he would come and collect the car which he

had reserved.

ALEX and FUEGER left the "Dolder Grand Hotel"

the same morning after having paid their hotel bills

separately in Swiss

francs.

ALEX then collected from the Hertz

Company the rented "Peugeot" motor car, registration number

ZH 156671. Together with FUEGER, he left zurich in the

direction of Chur/ Canton Graubunden.

Further information has

been received, Irom the

Cantonal Police of Chur, that ALEX and FUEGER Checked in at

the "Schlosshotel" in Pontresina on December 23, 1963.

They passed their time with skiing and have been described

at the hotel as quiet guests who did not mix with other

ALEX made a telephone call to

FUEGER is said to have approached

hotel receptionist to make inquiries about hotel accommodations

in Rome, however, without mentioning any forthcoming travelling

-3-

No: 9324282-932

---

## Page 5

CG 92-373

left Switzerland at the frontier village of Castasegna at

11:00 a.m.

It has also been reported that before their de-

parture in Pontresina, ALEX changed $300 U. S. into lire and

the luggage, consisting of three suitcases

and one pair of

skis, was dispatched to Geneva.

A photograph of pages two and three of ALEX'S

U. S. passport number D-74551 disclosed the following

information:

GUS

ALEX was born April 1, 1961, at Illinois,

U.S. A. He is five feet eleven inches tall, with black

gray hair and black eyes.

This passport was issued on March

21, 1963, and is valid for three years from issue date.

Registration forms from the "Dolder Grand Hotel"

in Zurich, Switzerland, made

available by the Zurich Police,

revealed the following information:

Surname

First name

Date of birth

Place of birth

Profession

Nationality

Number of family members

(wife and children)

Full home address

Room Number

Signature.

No. (passport)

Date of arrival

ALEX GuS

Gus

April 1, 1961

Chicago, Illinois

Public Relations

American

1

9253 So. Spaulding Ave.,

Evergreen Park, Illinois

216

/s/ GUS

ALEX

D074551

December 21, 1963

-4-

588-101860

92-3182-932

---

## Page 6

CG 92-373

Surname

First name

Date of birth

Place of birth

Profession

Nationality

Number of family members

DIETGARD FUEGER

(blank)

3/12/38

(blank)

Sekrt

Austrian

1

(wife and children)

Full home address

32 East Division

Chicago, Illinois

Room Number

217

Signature

/s/ DIETGARD FUEGER

No. (passport)

B401996

Date of arrival

December 21, 1963

On January 10, 1964, Chief Inspector JOHN PEARCE,

Metropolitan Police,

New Scotland Yard, London, England,

advised that alien records disclose subject arrived London

Airport December 20, 1963, and departed December 21, 1963,

en route to Zurich,

Switzerland. No information as

located regarding FUEGER.

The following investigation was conducted at New

York City:

Contacts on December 19, 21, 23, 1963, bY SA DONALD

E. JONES of the following airlines failed to disclose any

reservation to Switzerland that could be identified with the

subject.

Airline

Individual Contacted

Pan Am

TWA

GERARD Li. CLANCY

THOMAS WAINWRIGHT

BOAC

FRANK GILROY

Air India

BARBARA MAC PHERSON

Swiss Air

MIS. DROGE

General Tours

Mr. STEVE. LOHR

On January 6, 1964, SIDNEY A. DAVIS, Assistant

Chief, Records Administration and Information

Section,

Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), New York City,

INS.

-5-

REVIEWED BY ENUFK TASK FORCE

ON

16:16-95 DAD/TH

RELEASE IN FULL

I RELEASE IN PART

508-18185

• TOTAL DENIAL

92-3182-932

---

## Page 7

CG 92-373

advised that an INS form I-94 is filed with INS for each

passenger departing the United States.

These forms are micro-

filmed and then destroyed. Mr. DAVIS

continued that since

there are approximately 5,000 passengers in and out of New

York City each day, it would be almost impossible to determine

if a form was filed for the subject without knowing a specific

date and mode of departure.

On January 16, 1964, Mr. JULIE ZAMOSKY, United states

Customs

Agent, New York City,

list of individuals who are thoroughly searched upon re-entry

into the United states from a trip abroad.

Agent ZAMOSKY

stated that ALEX

will be on this list until 1966.

The following information was received on January 16, 1964,

from the Swiss Central Police Bureau:

Zurich Police reported that ALEX and FUEGER arrived by

plane from Italy at Zurich-Kloten on the evening of January 15,

1964.

They left the same evening by train for Geneva, and

are

now staying at the Hotel President in that city. Geneva

Police have been alerted.

On January 21, 1964, inormation was received from

the Swiss Central Police Bureau that according to the Police

of the Canton, of Graubunden at Chur, ALEX and FUEGER returned

to the "Schlosshotel"tat Pontresina, Graubunden, Switzerland,

on January 18, 1964,

and-intend to

stay there until

January 26, 1964.

The luggage which was sent to Geneva on

January 6, 1964, was returned to Pontresina.

On January 28, 1964, the Swiss Central Police

Bureau advised that ALEX and FUEGER were scheduled to leave

Zurich for London January 27 last via Swissair Flight #s110•

ALEX intends to fly from London to Detroit without a stop-

over in Canada.

Based upon the above information, Chicago telephonically

advised the Detroit Office of the foregoing information.

INS

-6-

REVIEWED BY FBWJFK TASK FORCE

ON 10-16-95 DAb/TIt

IS RELEASE IN FULL

I RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

500019185.

92-3182-937

---

## Page 8

CG 92-373

On February 1, 1964, Swiss Central Police Bureau

advised that ALEX and FUEGER left Pontresina, Switzerland, on

January 26, 1964, and returned by car to Zurich where they

checked in

at the "Dolder Grand Hotel".

During the afternoon of January 26, 1964, ALEX made

a telephone card to vergreen Lark, … !. a

GA. 3-8675,

and another call to kloten Airport to make inquiries regarding

flight possibilities between London and Detroit, U. S. A.

He emphasized that he would only consider a direct flight.

On January 27, 1964, ALEX booked two seats on

Swissair Flight #SR110, Zurich - London, with departure at

1:45 P.M. The same date, ALEX paid the hotel bill in Swiss francs

and accompanied by FUEGER left the hotel by taxi soon after

noon.

On arrival at the airport, ALEX changed the

amount of 68.50 DM into Swiss francs. No contacts to third

persons were

noticed during their next stay in Zurich.

Zurich police informed ALEX, who is known to be a

gangster boss in the United States and a member of the Chicago

crime syndicate, has to be considered as an undesirable person.

Therefore, the competent Swiss authorities dealing with

foreigners are now enteringsinto the case of ALEX with regard

to an interdiction of entry into Switzerland as further entries

Of ALEX into Switzerland are anticipated.

The Central Bureau, Criminal Division, Italian

National Police, Rome, Italy,

furnished the following

information on January 24, 1964:

a United States citizen in possession of

session of German passport 4019969 issued by

the German

Consulate in Chicago,

Illinois, on October

16, 1961, arrived in

Milan, Italy, on January 6, 1964.

They registered at the Hotel

Principe e Savoia and remained there until January 7, 1964

when they left Milan for an unknown destination.

Their method

of travel is not known.

-7-

500-0188

92-3182-932

---

## Page 9

CG 92-373

During the time ALEX and FUEGER were in Milan they

were not observed contacting other individuals, nor did they

come to police attention.

stayed at the London

Hilton Hotel until the morning of

at 12:00 Noon, January 29, 1964, on Air France Flight 813.

On January 25, 1964, the Swiss Central Police Bureau

(SCPB) furnished information as follows:

GUS ALEX and DIETGARD FUEGER arrived at the

airport at Zurich/Kloten, Switzerland, on January, 15, 1964,

presumably from Italy.

The plane was diverted to Zurich because

of bad weather conditions at Geneva.

ALEX and FUEGER reached Geheva at 11:10 ₽.M.

the same day, and checked in at the Hotel President,

where

they occupied roons 135 and 136.

The reservation had been

made through the Hotel Hilton in Rome.

Their luggage; which

had been sent to the railroad station

at Geneva from Pontresina,

was picked up by employees of the Hotel President on January 16,

1964.

It appeared that ALEX stayed in Geneva with the

intention of skiing at Chamonix and neighboring resorts, but

decided to return to Pontresina because of lack of snow.

While in Geneva, ALEX made telephone inquiries,

not further described, of Swissair and Alitalia Airlines.

also called the Hotel

Hilton in Rome, requesting that his hat,

which he had left there, should be forwarded to Pontresina.

ALEX and FUEGER left Geneva for Zurich by air on

January 17, 1964, at 12:15 P.M. ALEX paid

both the plane tickets

fares and the

bill at the Hotel President in Swiss francs.

When they arrived in Zurich, ALEX and FUEGER checked in at the

Dolder Grand Hotel.

the afternoon they made an

appointment and saw an ear specialist.

They also visited the

Hertz Car Rental Agency at Lagerstr.

31 in Zurich. Later in

the day they looked at watches and jewelry in four different

jewelry stores in the Bahnhofstrasse in Zurich.

-8-

+92-51869932

---

## Page 10

CG 92-373

During his stay in Zurich, ALEX made one call to

Evergreen, U.s.

A., number 312 GA 38 675. He was not seen

to make any contacts with banks while in Zurich.

On January 19, 1964, ALEX left the Dolder Grand Hotel

in Zurich after paying the bill in Swiss francs. He proceeded

to the Hertz Agency with FUEGER and picked up a Peugeot car

way i ever 15x

with Zurich license plate ZH 156641.

At 10:00 A.M. ALEX and

FUEGER left Zurich in the direction of Chur in the Canton of

Graubunden.

The SCPB also provided one photograph of ALEX and

FUEGER taken at the Zurich Airport, and also a photograph of

FUEGER'S passport.

Name

Citizenship

Registration Number

Number of Passport

Date of Issue

FUEGER'S passport contained the following information:

DIETGARD ROSEMARIE FUEGER

German

2730/61

B- 4019969

October 16, 1961, at

German Consulate

General, Chicago, Illinois

Occupation

Secretary

Place of birth

Seewalchen

Date of birth

December 3, 1938.

Place of residence

Chicago, Illinois, U.S. A.

Face:

Long

Eyes

Gray-green

Height

173 cm (5' 7₴")

Marks

Scar on upper lip and chin

The following letter was received at the American

Embassy in Bern, Switzerland, from the Swiss Police:

-9-

50 368-932

92-31001

---

## Page 11

CG 92-373

"Dear Sir:

Further to our letter dated January 6, 1964, We

herewith forward you the following additional information

received from the Cantonal Police of Chur.

Whilst staying at the

"Schlosshotel" in Pontresina, Alex used to pay his bills in

cash, either in American or Swiss currency.

Shortly before

his departure he changed at the "Kantonalbank" in Pontresina

US-$ 200 into Swiss francs and US-$ 300 into Lires. The

Dollar notes are bearing the following numbers:

"G 09131575 A

H 00716240 A

H 01023406 A

K 02224252 A

L 05633981 A

"With regard to the telephone calls made by ALEX

from the "Schlosshotel', the following numbers were contacted:

"26.12.1963 Evergreen Park, Illinois, No. 312 GA 38675

.31.12.1963

Athens, Cue Cordon, No.

67 62 34, calling GUS

CONTOS, N. 29, Kotta St. Neo, Physiko, Athens/

Greece.

11. 1.1964 Evergreen Park, Illinois, No. 312 GA 38675.

"According to the management of the "Schlosshotel',

Alex made a reservation of the same rooms he and Fueger have

occupied, and this for the same period next winter-season.

"Enclosed please find 2 photographs taken at the

, showing Alex and Fueger, as well as a copy

of the noe of arrival at the said hotel, filled in by Alex.

"Yours faithfully,

"BUREAU CENTRAL SUISSE DE POLICE

"LE CHEF:

"sig. Carrel

-10-

50g-1013s

92-3182-932

---

## Page 12

CG 92-373

"P.S. Information has just been received that Alex made a re-

servation at the

'Dolder Grand Hotel'

, zurich, for 2

days, for Friday, 17, 1964. Enquiries are being continued."

On February 8, 1964, the Swiss Central Police Bureau at

Bern advised that according to a final report received from the

Cantonal Police of Chur no contacts to other guests were hoticed

during the stay of ALEX and FUEGER at the "Schlosshotel" at

Pontresina, and ALEX did not call at any local bank. ALEX

mentioned to the hotel receptionist that they, ALEX and FUEGER,

had set out for Rome on January 6, 1964, where they had stayed

at the Hilton Hotel. They had flown from Milan to Rome and had

later made a side trip to Istanbul.

Telephone calls were made by ALEX to an unspecified

airline company in Milan and the Hilton Hotel in Rome in

connection with his hat which he left there by mistake. They

leit

the "Schlosshotel" on January 26, 1964.

The following investigation was conducted at Detroit,

Michigan, in connection with the proposed flight by ALEX from

Europe to Detroit;, nonstop:

Mr. EDWARD HUGHES, United States Customs Agent in

Charge, Detroit, Michigan, was contacted on January 50, 1964.

He advised that

the only two airlines which fly to detroit

non-stop from London, England, are Pan American and BOAC.

He advised that a BOAC flight

had arrived on that date and a

Pan American flight the day before.

He stated that all checks

made to establish arrival of the subject or his girl friend in

Detroit met with negative results.

Mr. HUGHES on February 14, 1964, stated that a

thorough check had been made of all

incoming passenger

manifests for-the period January 27, to February 5, 1964,

and that no record of arrival in Detroit by the subject

• or

by subject's girl friend had been located.

The following investigation was conducted at New York

City:

-11-

SO-IDISE

92-3182-932

---

