# docid-32556648

## Page 1

OPlIONAL FORM NO. 10 .

5010-106-03

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Director, FBI (92-3182)

Tiri

Legat, Paris (92-4) (P.)"

SUBJECT:

GUS

AR

ALEX, aka

DATE:

5-25-65

Re Chicago LHM dated 3-16-65.

Investigation requested

in referenced Chicago

memorandum was referred by letter to the Police Judiciaire

(Criminal Police), Sûreté Nationale (PJSN), on 3-24-65.

Contact has been maintained with the PJSN regularly to

obtain the results of their inquiry.

Mr. ALFRED GERTHOFFERT of the PJSN advised on

5-24-65 that investigation thus far had failed to locate

any record of three mink coats and jewelry having been

declared at the time FUEGER entered France. Mr. GERTHOFFERT

stated that it appears that this material was not questioned

by the French Customs and that no record was made of it

The investigation is con-

tinuing,

however, and Mr. GERTHOFFERT will furnish us with

the final results thereof in the near future.

It is noted that Chicago memorandum indicates

that Chicago

is awaiting further information regarding the

use of false identification by FUEGER while in Paris.

results of that inquiry were contained in Paris letter

The

3-2-65.

It was indicated that the question of false identity

apparently arose as a result of information having been

furnished erroneously by the Hotel Bristol. No further

inquiry is being conducted in that regard.

We willicontinue to follow with the PJSN and

advise the BureaudEzulevithe

4 - Bureau

1 - Paris

NWP :HD

(5)

for coop.

120251

Mare ans

section

Chicago,

92-373, info.)

LBI

92-3182-1080

EX-100

REC- 19

18 JUN 1 1965

F9 JUNE

1365

DocId: 32556648

Page 1

---

