# docid-32560416

## Page 1

FD-36 (Rav. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 9/22/60

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

::

Director, FBI (92-2790) (92-2717)

FROM

SAC, Philadelphia (92-445-Sub A) (92-444-Sub A)

SUBJECT:

ANTONIO POLLINA, aka.;

AR

JUNE

ANGELO

OBRUNO

Re Bureau airtel 9/16/60, cc Philadelphia,

captioned as above, regarding installation of MISUR

Maggio Cheese Company, Philadelphia, Pa.

Referenced Bureau airtel authorized the use

of services of New York Agents GERALD P. RYAN or JOHN J.

FLEMING as alternate and requested the Philadelphia Di-

vision to make all necessary arrangements with New York,

making certain that New York Agent is fully Informed of

background Information.

As Indicated In referenced airtel, the installa-

tion will utilize two mates In the commercial establish-

ment of Maggio Cheese Company. Entry will have to be made

during the normal daylight working hours under a suitable

pretext.

3

- Bureau (92-2790) (92-2717) (R m

2

- New York (Rm).

Elfc, Sect.

2

- Philadelphia

92-445-Sub A

1221

≤ 1/9-

NOT RECORDED

•1

-92-444-Sub A

4.76

18K St 30 1960

29

SEP 25 1960

JRP: BSP

(7)

тамо

Se

_M

Per

6

Approved:

Ост 3

DocId: 32560416 Page 1

1960 cial Agent in Charge

---

## Page 2

ED- 36 (Rov. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

F. BI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

PH

92-445-Sub A

PH 92-444-Sub

The necessary equipment is in the possession

of the Philadelphia Division. The necessary technical

details will be explained to

the New York Agent upon his

arrival in Philadelphia.

It is contemplated that this installation can

The

employee.

The identification for the New York Agent 1s

being prepared by the Laboratory and will be forwarded

directly to the Philadelphia Division.

Upon receipt of the identification cards, the

New York Division will be notified.

The New York Division

will then notify the Philadelphia Division when either

Agent FLEMING or Agent RYAN will be available for the

Instant installation.

It will be of interest to these Agents to note

that there will not have to be any wiring; that the

installation will consist only of installing a mate to

a.

"spare pair"

available at the Interested locations,

which, thereafter, will have to be connected in the main

any installing a tons ain

frame of the phone service in the basement of instant

company so that they can be brought to the central

office.

Bureau will be kept advised of the progress of

the Installation.

FROHBOSE

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

M

•Per:

DocId: 32560416 Page 2

---

## Page 3

9-16-60

Airtel

Tolson

Mohr -

Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

De Loach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

-Tele. Room

Ingrain*

Gang

Ост 3

196000M

DocId: 32560416

Page 3

To:

SAC, Philadelphia (02-445 Sub A) (92-444 Sub A)

From:

Director, FBI (92-8790) (92-2717)

ANTONIO POLLINA, aka

JUNE

Reurairtel to Director 8-11-60, requesting authorization for

installation of MISUE at Maggio Cheese Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,

where Top Hoodlums of Philadelphia Office carry on activities.

Referenced

airtel requested that Sound-Trained Agent from neighboring field division be

assigned to make MATE installation since all Philadelphia Sound-Trained

Agents might be recognized by subjects due to activities on previous criminal

investigations. Euairtel 8-31-60, to Philadelphia Oftice authorized installa-

tion.

Philadelphia Office is authorized to use the services of New Yorks

Sound-Trained Agent Gerald P. Fyan for this installation. In event Eyan

is unavailable for any reason New York Agent John G. Fleming is designated

as alternate.

Proper telephone company identification cards for Fyan and

Fleming are being prepared in Laboratory and will be forwarded to

Philadelphia Office in near future.

Philadelphia should make all necessary arrangements with New York,

making certain that New York Agent is fully informed of background

information. All equipment should be obtained and details of installation

worked out in advance so that New York Agent's time in Philadelphia will

be held to minimum.

20017101

DAIZICA

Philadelphia should advise Bureau of progress of installation.

€ 8 1

2eb 1e

= New fork ote lP

NS EN .kU

1 - Mr. Rosen (Attention:

Mr. Leggett

MECEINED - LVI

JMM:pcc (10)

MAILED 25

SEP 1 6 1960

COMM-FBI

TELE

PE UNIT C

ORIGINAL

,COPy

---

## Page 4

FD:36 (ROy: 12-13-561

Transmit the following in

•Via

AIRIELL

FBI

Date:

9/14/60

PIAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

6°

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2790) (92-2717)

SO, PHILADELPHIA (92-24 Su

(92-444

I U

NE

SUBJECI: ANTONIO POLLINA, aKa

AR

ANGELO BRUNO

Re BUairtel to Philadelphia 9/12/60, and Philadelphia

airtel to Bureau 9/6/60, captioned as above.

Referenced Bureau airtel states "Standard company

practice would not terminate in 42 A's but in at least three

44 A blocks."

Philadelphia, in referenced airtel to the Bureau,

pointed out that the telephone contact of the Division stated

definitely that the stations are wired with a 42 A connecting

block.

on 9/14/60, under suitable pretext, SA J. ROBERT

PEARCE entered the Maggio Cheese Company and

observed that

the telephone service terminated in metal covers of the kind

IN

usually used in installations of automatic equipment which

utilize. 44 A connector blocks.

on 9/14/60, the Philadelphia Division's telephone

company contact advised as follows:

was

The telephone servicing at the Maggio Cheese Company®

of the type where there are three 44 A connector blocks

used at each station.

The contact requestioned the company

3 - Bureau 192-2790

(92-2717)

(Registered Mail)

ORIGINAL

2 - Philadelphia

142-0717

(1 - 92-445 Sub

NOT

JRP/kog

(5)

Approved:

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32560416 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PH

: 92=445 Sub A

92-444 Sub

• A

employce who recently did additional wiring at the Maggio

Company and ascertained that the stations are wired in a non-

standard wiring procedure in that there were two 44 A connector

blocks utilized and one space is available where a 42 A connector

block can be installed.

To be explicit, there are only two

44 A connector blocks at each station and there 1s room for

three 44 A connector blocks, at each station.

There is a vacant

space which can be used for installation of a 42 A and the l

contact belleves this can be done without arousing any

suspicion as all installation would be covered with standard

company metal cover used at automatic equipment stations.

The blue black spaces mentioned previously are loose at each

interested station.

FROHBOSE

DocId: 32560416 Page 5

---

## Page 6

ox 4/00

912-60

Artel

92-2717-

To:

SAC, Philadelphia (92-445 Sub A) (92-444 Sub A)

From:

Director, FBI (92-2790) (82-2717)

ANTONIO POLLINA, aka

JUNE

Reurairtel 9-6-60, providing details concerning proposed installation

of MISUR at Maggio Cheese Company.

You indicate each station is wired with 12-pair cable and also

provided with a 424 terminal block. Standard company practice would not

terminate in 42A'S, but in at least three «4A blocks (each 44A has 10

terminals).

Non-standard termination of 12-pair cable in two 44A'& and

one 12A is possible.

Advise Laboratory if telephone contact used non-

standard wiring to provide 42A at each station. Do not plan on using altered

44A block (with microphone and amplifier concealed in it) since no such

unit is available.

ORIGINAL COPY FILED IN

173791

JMM:pcc (9) YU

11..

1 - Mr. Rosen (Attention: Mr. Leggett)

Tolson

Mohr

Parsons

Belmont

Callahon

De Loach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingrain

Gandy

MAILED 25

SEP 1 2 1960

COMM-FBI

smatter

MAIL ROOM.

SEP 22 1960

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32560416 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PH 92-445 Sub A

PH 92-444 Sub A

spare.

These blue-black pairs are wired so to avoid any

automatic equipment and appear only at the stations and at

the houde box located in the cellar of the building. From

the house box there are only two pairs avallable for service

to bring the installation out. These pairs are tagged to

be readily identified.

The telephone contact of the division

states definitely that the stations are wired with a 42A

connecting block which is suitable for a

"mate" installation.

A drawing is in the possession of Philadelphia showing the

locations of each station.

The installations will be made in

two of the three private offices in the front of the building

where it is known that captioned subject, as well as Philadel-

phia top hoodlum ANGELO BRUNO, has in the past conducted

business.

The telephone service at this company will have

to have trouble appear to allow a suitable pretext for entry

of the sound man.

It is contemplated that no more than eight

hours will be necessary for this installation.

Enclosed herewith is the telephone identification

card of SA j. ROBERT PEARCE which can be used by the Laboratory

to make a suitable copy for the sound agent who is to make

this installation.

It is requested that SA PEARCE'S

identification be returned to him at the earliest possible

time

and that identification for the agent who is making

this installation be laminated.

FROHBOSE

- 2-

DocId: 32560416 Page 7

---

