# docid-32305938

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10289-10068

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-4225-39

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/08/1959

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

JFC, THP, ADMIN, INSTR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified*

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32305938

Page

1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

PLAIN

FBI

Date:

7/8/59

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (92-632)

JOSEPH

SUBJECT: U.S. VS• BONANNO; ET AL;

Southern Distriot of New York

Criminal 159-35

TOP "HOODLUM PROGRAM

ReBuairtel to NY, 7/6/59, and Buairtel to Nk and NY,

7/6/59, both captioned as

above.

Enclosed herewith are five copies of letterhoad memoranda

reflecting interviews conducted at Mohawk Airlines, NYC.

Regarding

the dissemination of interviews received under.

conditions of confidence, the following is noted:

On 7/7/59, Lta JOHN-THOMPSON, Central Intelligence Squad,

NYCPD, advised that the information he made available regarding the

interview of NalALa evOla by members of the 64th Det. Squad could

be disseminated to the Department only protecting his identity and

the identity,

of the Central Intelligence Squad as having made the

information available, and THOMPSON continued the identities of the

detectives conducting the interview should be concealed. It is noted

ROBIRI F• MC GUINNESS, 63 Prospect St, White Plains, NY,

• Business Address Gramatan National Bank, Kraft Ave., Bronxvillo, NY,

advised on 7/8/59 that he had only been an employee of the NY Joint

Legislative Comm. on Government Operations, with no policy making

position. He said he made available results of hearings and checks

cocaini

- Bureau (Enclso 5)

done 44-710

(5)

New York (N-CE2SURE

REC.,

92-4225-569

AJA:aja

JUL 9 1959

EX-136

Approved:

68 JUL 27 1959

Sent

Per

gent in Charge

Doc1d: 32305938 Page 2

---

