# docid-32164131

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10154-10037

RECORD SERIES:

NO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

44-2064-158

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :NIT 45653 Date:

11-16-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CLEMENTS, MANNING C.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/30/1963

PAGES: 884

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 44-24016-634

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

11/10/1998

STATUS Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

JFK Law 11(a)

INC RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS ON PAGES i-iii

HH 45653

DocId: 32164131

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following criminal informants affillated or

familiar with gambling matters, Albuquerque Division, were con-

tacted on November 25, 1963, with negative results:

AQ 175-C; Albuguerque, N.Mi: by SA J. JEROME MAXWELL.

AQ 133-C, Albuquerque, Not. by SA J. JEROME MAXWELL.

PCI RALPH T. TRUJILLO, Albuquerque, N.M., by

SA J: JEROME MAXWELL.

AQ 128-C, Albuguerque,

N.M; bY SA CARY CARLTON.

AO 141-C, Albuquerque, N.M., bY SA STUART J, CAMERON.

AQ 181-C, Albuquerque, N.M., bY SA STUART J. CAMERON.

PCI B. HOWARD THORNE, ROSWell, N.M. bY SA WILLIAM Lo

EDDY-

FCI EDMOND ZUETEREY, Roswell, N.M., by SA WILLIAM I.

EDDY.

AQ 178-C, Grants, N.M., bY SA CALVIN D. KNOTT.

POT E. I. KEITH, ClOVIS, N.M. BY SA FRANK W. HAINES:

PC, KIT

PETTICEd, ClOVIS, N.M., by SA FRANK W. HAINES:

On November 25,

1963; AQ 204-C advised SA W. J.

WILKINSON, JR.: Farmington, Not that she once met JACK RUBY

in an unknown hobal ia beltse

Texas, many years ago.

Thê

informant was unable to recall the hotel or other people during

this contact. Informant has

never met victim.

=<-

Cover Page

HH 45653

DocId: 32164131 Page 2

---

## Page 3

on 11/25/63, AQ 195-FC advised SA STUART ., CAMERON

at Albuquerque, N.M., that approximately eleven months ago

he met JACK RUBY at the Carousel

club in pallas, Texas.

Informant met RUby through JACK HARDBE JRe,

when the

informant mentioned that he was from Albuguerque, RUBX

advised

The Informant

Chicago and that a "Jewish boy" had

the particular section of

town where the Carousel is now located

"all sewed up."

Informant states RUBY had a

difficult time breaking into the

area, but that he is now quite well off along with the "Jewish

boy," who also has a joint located one block from the Carousel

in an upstaire location.

HARDEE mentioned to AQ 195-PC that RUBY had a "good

in" with the Dallas Police Dept,

The informant states this

would be borne out from his observation by the fact that RUBY

had a B-girl operation where dripke were pushed heavily and

they had no interference from the police department.

The

informant know of no specifie connections with the police

department and only persocally engaged RUSY in conversation

for five to ten arnaces.

Incorant stated he is not aware of

any Chicago underworld connections of RUBY of any subversive

or extremist connections. Re dad not know of any relationship

between the subject and

the fair Play for Cuba Committee Or

any association between OSwArd and RUBY.

-<-

Cover Page

HH 45653

DocId:32164131

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG

44new

DI 44-1639

ADMINISTRATIVE

Files of the Chicago Orrice

raflect the following:

"chicago Daily Iribure"

o becember 9, 1939, carried an

article stating that JOHN MARTIN,

President of the Scrap

Iron and

Junk Handlers Union Local

20467 AFL, had shot LEON R. COOKE, the

attorney for the above union,

According o former Cool, who

was lntezviewed at

that time,

the informant war then in the process

of Corning a rival union affiliated with the cIo

and had

I written

several letsers to junk dealers In this vegard which he had signed

"Cool"

MARTIN- learned of these letter,

assuned he was being

double

crossed by LEON COOKE,

and during an argument between MARTIN

and cooke which ensued. MARTIN Shot LEON COOKE.

MARTIN then be-

came a fugitive Justice.

Cover Poose

HH 45653

DocId: 32164131 Page 4

---

## Page 5

44-1639

Chicago 6670-PD advised SA JOHN R. BASSETT On November 24,

1963 that he had been a close friend of subject RUBY for many years

In Chicago, This informant advised that "SPARKY" was hot tempered

on occasions, but was generally of a good disposition.

He stated

that RUBY was an excellent fist fighter

According

RUBY, Is the mid nineteer l'orty's operated a "boor to this Informant,

over a restaurant

located east of Kedzie Avenue on the north side of Roosevelt Road in

chicago

• Subject was

a close

friend of

one ABE. ZUCKERMAN, also known

as "ZUCKIE" (phonetic).

In the miodle nineteen forty's,

according to the informant, ZUCKERMAN was shot and the informant

belteved that this occurred because ZUCKERMAN did not cut LEONARD

PARTICK, one of Chicago's top hoodlums, In on the profits of his book.

Shortly after this shooting.

" PATRICK told the subject to leave town,

accusing him or operating a book without PATRICK's sanction.

PATRICK

warned the subjest that 1f he did not leave Chicago, he would "get

what Zuckle got". The subject left Chicago at this time for Dallas,

Texas, where he ran a clus owned by his sister.

Informant advised

that he has not been in touch with the sunject in recent years and

was completely at a loss to understand the subject's action in

shoot:

Ing OSWALD.

ROSS PRIO, Chicago top hoodlu.

las Intormant curther advised that

RUBY had been a close friend of one or SCARAMiZZe Who owns a gun

shop on Hausted Street near Taylor street in

chicago.

The chicago Division records

contain no information cor

cerning ABE ZUCKERMAN,

also know as

"ZUCKIE". The same records

reflect that JOSEPH SCARANUZZO 18 the owner of Scaramuzzo and Sons

Gunshop, 831 South Halsted Street, Chicago, Illinois: It should be

noted that three of

the four guns

used by members of

the Nationalist

rarty or fuerto nico in the shooting au the House of representatives,

Washington, D. Co. on March I, 1954, were purchased by one WILLIAM

GATETTY, Gary.

Indiana, from Scaramuzzo and Sons, 801 South Halsted

Street;

chicago.

CG 6443-6 advised SA JOSEPH G. SHEA on November 24, 1963,

that he believed the subjeet was related in some manner to one HARRY

RUBENSTEIN.

The informant advised that HARRY RUBENSTEIN had owned

the Hotel Olympic on North clark street on chicago's near North side,

HARRY RUBENSTEIN KILled a man in

approximately Mirteen fears as $25,000.0o te a cricago police Captalm.

this hotel, but by a payment of

was able to fix this charge. According to this informant, HARRY

RUBENSTEIN had good connections with certain unknown criminals in

the

Chicago area but was not considered by the informant to be a member"

of the Organized Criminal Element In this elty.

It should be noted that the records of the chicago Police

Department reflect one HARRY RUBENSTEIN, a hotel owner on the near

North side, as having been sentenced to one year probation on a charge

of manslaughter in 1946.

Coveir Page

HH 45653

DocId:32164131 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG 6690-PC advised SA JOSEPH G. SHEA on November 24, 1963,

that the subject was related to hARRy RUBENsleIN who formerly operated

two or theee bars in the Chicago loop area.

According to the informant,

the subject worked as a bartender for HARRy RUBENSIEIN in a bar at the

Banker's Bullding In Chicago-X 1008.

The informant advised that in

1942 or 1943, JACK RUBENSTEL attempted to enlist in the united staves

Navy but was rejected when he railed to pass the physicar examination.

The informant described JACK RUBENSTEIN as exuremely patriotic but

moody..

This informant was unble to furnish any Information concerning

HARRY

RUBENSTEIN's present whereabouts or actlulties.

BERNARD GLICKMAN (Protect Identity) advised SA JOHN R. BASSETT

on November 24, 1963, that he does not kow the subjest.

GLICKMAN

advised that he had contaeted a person known to him, whose identity he

would not reveal, who recalled the subject as a friend many years ago.

in the area around Independence Boulevard

According to GLICkMAN, this source stated that the subject was not

connected with the criminal element Chicago.

that RUBENSTEIN was good natured but on occasion was extremely hot

tempered According to this source, the subject had left Chicago In

2133

and Roosevelt Road in Chicago.

This source Indicated

the late 1940's for Dallas, Texas, where he operated a club belonging

to his sister.

GLICKVAN advised that he had made an unsuccessful

attempt to contact ANTHONY ACCARDO In an effort to obtain Information

concerning the subject.

It should be noted that ANTHONY ACCARDO 18 a high ranking

member of Chicago's criminal element.

BERNARD GLICKMAN Is known to

a close

associate

of many of chicago's top echelon criminals and

has, in recent years, been active in the management of several ranking

prize lighters

All other chicago Informants negative and Chloago files

reflect no infornation pertaining to subject's Involvement with Chicago

criminal element.

"H.

Cover Page

HH 45653

DocId:32164131

Page

---

## Page 7

CG 44-645

DI 44-1639

WER: eah.

CG. 6498-PC was contacted by SA WILLIAM I, ROEMER, on

11/25/63, but at that time had no personal knowleäge of RUBY.

11/26/63, CG 6498-PC advised that he had solicited information.from

politicians of the 24th Ward, the former voting residence of RUBY.

PO advised that he talked to two persons who appeared to know RUBY

from many years

ago, They advised that RUBY was never anything but

" on a test he see he the eaten or to seat in. one

prize fight in Chicago, believed to be the second DEMPSEY - TUNNEY

fight, and was caught by a police officer who beat him over the head

with his night stick. As a result of this beating, RUBY now has a

plate in his head.

Apparently this causes pressure when RUBY becomes

excited and causes RUBY to act emotionally.

Cover Page

HH 45653

DocId: 32164131 Page 7

---

## Page 8

DI 44-1639/cv

ADMINISTRATIVE

DN 249-C frequented Clover Bar re xt door. to Sherman Hotel,

Chicago, Illinois, 1946 to 1949..

He described this bar as a hangout

for the hoodlum element. At that time it was operated by IRA COLITZ

who was described as a personal friend of Colonel JACOB ARVEY, a well

known Chicago political figure.

COLITZ possibly was recently a

candidate for Alderman in Chicago and resides in penthouse apartment

on Michigan Boulevard.

The informant related JACK RUBY, whom he identified from

newspaper photographs, frequented the Clover Bar in about 1946 or

1947 and was an acquaintance of IRA COLITZ and possibly wes a former

school mate of COLITZ on the west side of Chicago. He does not know

the nature of RUBY's activities in Chicago.

The informant stated that in about December, 1949, he was

in Dallas, Texas, at which time RUBY was operating a night club,

name unknown, with western band and western motif. The informant.

visited this club and chatted briefly with RUBY who requested that

he convey RUBY's regards to COLITZ when the informant returned to

chicago.

- it...o

The informant has not seen or heard from RUBY since 1949

and has never had any specific information concerning RUBY's back-

ground or ectivities but has never had any reason to suspect him

of being involved in subversive activities.

Cover Page

HH 45653

DocId: 32164131 Page 8

---

## Page 9

DN 44-387

DI 44-1639

ADMINISTRATIVE

DN 295-C, who furnished reliable Information in the past,

furnished the following November 25, 1963:

As of one month ago JACK RUBY was known to be an associate

of "PAPPY'' INU, owner of "Pappy's Showland" in Dallas.

Basis or

extent of association wow.

DN 200-S and DN 215-S

who are cogni

zant of Communist Party, Soclallst Workers Party, Freedom for Cuba

Cormittee,

November 25, 1963,

These

sources have furnished

reliable information In the past.

All other

logical informants and PCI's Denver Division unable to furnish any

positive information re JACK RUBY.

HEREIN IS UNJLASSIFIED

DATE 3-10:93 BY2SU3 RDD/KSA

JFK SpECiA/

-K.

Cover Page

HH 45653

DocId: 32164131 Page 9

---

## Page 10

HO 44-939

DL 44-1639

LAB:eah

Houston 1125-C advised SA LEVERETTE A. BAKER

he met JACK RUBY a number of years ago

on 11/25/02 WEINSTEIN (FH) OWner Of Colony Club, Dallas,

through ABE

Texas, but knows nothing further concerning ruBY.

=M-

Cover Page

HH 45653

DocId: 32164131 Page 10

---

## Page 11

LA 44-895

FHT : JMF

Gambling Informants

Los Angeles Office

POL NORMAN SIMON, On 11/25/03, could provide no

personal information about JACK LEON RUBY, aka, but he did

make available for interview by SA FRANK H. TOWNSENd one

MORRIS BLOCK, 5510 Edgewood Place,

Los Angeles. Information

from BLOCK of potential value, including the identity of a

knowledgeable Chicago friend,

has been submitted separately

by FD 302 and by teletype containing lead for Chicago.

Other informants who could provide no information

are:

LA 3445-0 on 11/26/63, to SA JOHN R. BARRON.

IA 3948-C on 11/25/63, to SA FRANK H. TOWNSEND.

LA 4400-PC on 11/26/63 to SA JOHN R. BARRON.:

LA 4410-C-TE on 11/25/63 to SA GEORGE E. BLAND.

LA 4448-PC on 11/26/63 to SA JOHN R. BARRON.

PCI JACK IRVING FOX on 11/25/63 to SA

AMEDEE 0.

RICHARDS, JR.

PCI SAM FARKAS on 11/26/63 to SA WILLIAM J. NOLAN.

PCI COSSIETT PALMER On 11/26/63 to SA TOWNSEND.

The following informants were contacted by SA

HOMER E. YOUNG on 11/26/63 with negative results:

LA 3596-c

PCI

JEK Act 6 (4)

LA 4218-0

• LẠ 4221-0

cover Page

HH 45653

DocId: 32164131 Page 11

---

## Page 12

LA 44-895

FHT : JVE

PCI GEORGE COSTELLO

PCI

JEK Act 6 (4)

PCI RAY SOUTHCOTT

LA 4135-C advised that

she had been contacted by letter

from Dallas, Texas, by EARL NORMAN and his wife, CLAIRE BARTLETT,

who wanted informant to handle their bookings on the west Coast.

Informant advised that BARTLETT is a vocalist and understood she

had been working for JACK LEON RUBY in one of his night clubs in

Dallas. Informant stated that she is aware that EARL NORMAN left

Dallas

on 11/21/63 for a booking Into: The

Largo,

a night club

located on the Sunset Strip in Hollywood.

Informant stated she

would imagine that NORMAN's wife accompanied him.

Informant said

she did not book this team since she did not have an opportunity

to audition them.

LA 4135-C advised that the only bookings she handles

in the Dallas areafor strip tease dancers is through ABE WEINSTOCK

and his brother for their two places and has never had any business

dealing's with RUBY nor has she ever met him.

=0=

cover Paige

HH 45653

DooId:32164131

Page

12

---

## Page 13

NO 44-2064/1aV

INFORMANT'S

Known as octate of most a

CARLOS MARCELLO

No 1238 as well as JOSEPR PORETTO and who has been

a manager of the Town and Country Restaurant up until October

of 1963, advised SA REED W. JENSEN on November 27, 1963, that

he had never heard of a JACK LEON RUBY OF a LEE HARVEY OSWALD

prior to their notariety in the connection with the assassina-

tion of President JOHN F. KENNEDY.

The PC stated on examining

a photograph of LEE HARVEY OSWALD, NOPD number 112723, that he

had never seen this individual in person before.

he could not recall anyone who may have frequented the Town

and Country Motel who resembled this. individual enough to

cause anyone to think this person might be OSWALD.

X

COVER PAGE

HH 45653

DocId: 32164131

Page

13

---

## Page 14

NO (44-2064) / sw

2

INFORMANTS CONTINUED -

On November 25, 1963, SA LESTER G. DAVIS contacted

NO 1153C, a homosexual who operates a restaurant in the New

Orleans French Quarter. This informant advised he

had never

known RUBY.

Louisiana.

This informant, who travels widely, had never met

ör heard of RUBY until he saw RUBY on television on November

24, 1963.

BOGGAN contacted

and fencer

of stolen property. This

informant, who is originally

from the Chicago, Illinois

area, advised that he did not know

RUBY and had never heard of him until he heard about RUBY on

television since November 24, 1963.

On November 25, 1963, SA RICHARD BUCARO contacted

NO 1209 C, a bartender and strip tease club manager, in the

New Orleans French Quarter.

This informant advised he had

never known RUBY or heard of him until he saw RUBY on television

since November 24, 1963.

On November 25, 1963, SA FURMAN G. BOGGAN contacted

PCI ANTHONY W. FREDO, a

sports

handicapper, who has traveled

widely throughout the United states. FREDO stated he had

never heard of RUBY until he saw the shooting of OSWALD by

RUBY on television on November 24, 1963.

On November 25, 1963, SA KEVIN J. HARRIGAN contacted

NO 1189 C, a New Orleans French Quarter barroom operator, who

advised that he did not know RUBY and had never heard of

him

until November 24, 1963, when RUBY shot OSWALD.

On November 25, 1963, SA J. DAWSON VAN EPS contacted

PCI HOWARD D. BAUTSCH, a bookmaker in Jefferson Parish, and

PCI JOSEPH A. RUSS, a

former bookmaker, who frequents gambling

establishments, and both advised they did not know RUBY and

COVER

PAGE

HH 45653 DocId:32164131 Page 14

---

## Page 15

NO

3

(44-2064) /sw

INFORMANTS CONTINUED -

had never heard of him prior to November 24, 1963.

On November 25, 1963;

SA JOHN V. HANION contacted

NO 1233 C,

a tavern operator in Monroe, Louisiana, who

advised he did not know RUBY and had never heard of him

before November 24, 1963.

On November 25, 1963 SA JAMES FRANCIS WRIGHT contacted

PCI HARVEY MILLER, Sulphur, Louisiana, who frequents gambling

establishments. MILLER had never heard of RUDY prior to November

24, 1963.

JEK Act 6 (4)

On November 25. 1963, SA RICHARD A. SMALLWOOD

contacted Pets

a professional gambler, MILTON

PONTIER,

a bookmaker, THOMAS SKRNICH, a gambling club operator,

and JOSEPH DAVID, an employee of SKRNICH's, all of Lafayette,

Louisiana.

These individuals advised they had never heard

of RUBY prior to November 24, 1963, when they observed him on

individ 245

network television.

NO 1229 C, a professional bookmaker, Baton Rouge, Louisiana,

advised SA EARL R.

PETERSEN on November 25, 1963, that he had

never heard of RUBY prior to November 24, 1963, when he had

seen the shooting of OSWALD by RUBY on television.

Subsequently

on this same date, this informant advised that he had contacted

bookmakers ANTHONY EUGENE NOLAN, TAJITA HANIE Of BatOn Rouge,

and they had not known RUbY.

SA PETERSEN also contacted PCI

JOHN SERIO on November 25, 1963, SERIO being an employee of

FRANK LEO VUCCI, another Baton Rouge bookmaker. SERIO had not

heard of RUBY prior to November 24, 1963.

SA PETERSEN also contacted GEORGE LA RUSSA and CHARLES

G. WALKER, bookmakers at the Candlelight club in west bator

kouge Parish, Louisiana and these bookmakers had not heard

of RUBY prior to November 24, 1963•

AA

COVER

PAGE

HH 45653

DocId: 32164131 Page 15

---

## Page 16

DL 44-1639

The following investigation by Tampa Office:

TP 94-C advised he located

address book dated from

1945-48, and noted name NATE GROSSMAN,

5046 N. Troy St., Chicago,

I11. Source stated be is certain NATE GROSSMAN is identical

to TINY GROSSMAN mentioned previously.

Source now recalls meeting GROSSMAN in Chicago in

1948 or 1949, and GROSSMAN told him he had spent some time in

prison and in same conversation mentioned Flagstaff, Ariz.

Informant has hazy recollection that GROSSMAN arrested Flagstaff

for Illinois authorities and probably did time in Statesville

Prison, outside Chicago.

Source now recalls GROSSMAN tended bar and lived in

hotel above bar, located across the street from Croydan

Hotel. Croydan

located near Black Orchid Lounge, Chicago.

Same source recalls RUBY at one time ran errands

for one RAY LEWIS, a furrier, state lake Building, JU Nortr

State St., Chicago.

Luv h, a

LEWIS had a bookie operation on the side

and resided Maryland Hotel, Rush and Delaware Streets, Chicago.

Same source also recalls RUBY loitered about a barber

shop run by one AL INDES at the corner, or near the corner

of Clark Street, and Lake Street, Chicago.

-EE

Cover Page

HH 45653

DocId:32164131

Page

16

---

## Page 17

DI 44-1639

TP 94-C advised 11/25/63 he knew RUBY in Chicago by

reputation as ticket scalper along Rush street and RuBy would

do anything for a buck.. Source states RUBY not known to hang

around racketeers but recalls one TINY GROSSMAN, a cab driver

Chicago, also a ticket scalper, was close friend of

RUBY.

or barteoure's knowledge of niby dates trom 1945 to 1948. Later,

source heard GROSSMAN did time at Flagstaff, Ariz, for ticket

scalping. Source also recalls one time RUBY badly beaten trying

i tim at

to crash

a fight program, Comiskey Park. RUBY dropped out of

sight in Chicago, 1948, no one missing him.

Te doc advised three years ago AGVA female entertainer

complained to AGVA it was rough working in clubs in Dallas.

• FF-

Cover Page.

HH 45653

DocId: 32164131 Page 17

---

## Page 18

DL 44-1639

The following informants who have access to gambling

information in the Dallas area were contacted by SAs ROBERT M.

BARRETT and IVAN D. LEE on the dates indicated:

DL 170- C

PCI BILLY H. MARTIN

PCI|

PCI MIKE LESCHETSKO

PCI FRED MERRILL

DL 185-C-TE

PCI.

PHILLIP STEIN

PEI

November 25,.

1963

November

November

24,

1963

November

26,

1963

JEK Act 6 (4)

25,

1963

November

26,

1963

November

November

24,

25, 26,1963

25,

1963

November 25,

1963

181-0-12

November 25, 1963

None of the above informants had any information

that JACK RUBY, aka. was involved in any gambling activities

either as a player,

bookmaker or gambler, during the time he

has resided in Dallas area • approximately fifteen years. RUBY

was known to the above informants as the operator of the Carousel

Club or Vegas Club, in Dallas.

Cover Page

HH 45653

DooId:32164131 Page 18

---

