# docid_32325851

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90038-10040

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-4930-35

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 10/28/1964

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

JAMES HENRY DOLAN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW. :

05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NW 45771

DocId: 32325851

Page 1

26

---

## Page 2

DL 92-292

DALLAS

AT DALLAS, TEXAS. Will maintain contact witb

confidential sources, intormants, and neighborhood sources

for any information concerning DOLAN's travels into and out

of Dallas.

ADMINISTRATIVE

INFORMANT COVERAGE:

Presently being utilized are the following informants,

who are believed to be in a position to furnish information

regarding subject's activities and associates:

DL 29-C

DL 170-€

DL 146-C

DIL 185-C-TE

DL 181-C-TE

DL 197-C

PCI MICHAEL LESCHETSKO

DL 208-PC

PCI WILLIAM SOLTES

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS:

The following informants bave all furnished reliable

information in the past and careful consideration has been given

to each source concealed. T symbols were utilized in this report

only in those instances where the identity of the source must be

concealed.

DL T=1

DL T-2

DL T-3

DI Tr4

DL T-S

1s DL 185-C-TE, contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

is DL 170-C

is

PCI MICHAEL LESCHETSKO

is

neighborhood source

Is GENE EVANS, Deputy Circuit Clerk, Gulfport,

Mississippi.

Contacted by

SA WILLIAN F. DUKES,

9/11/64,

and who requested his identity be kept

confidential.

OTHER 4

COVER PAGE

NW 45771 DocId:32325851 Page 2

---

