# docid-32293072-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10210-10348

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2713-1ST NR 198

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: EVANS, C. A.

TO:

BELMONT

TITLE :

DATE:

07/11/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CM, INFT, BUSS ACT, INTERNATIONAL TIME INC.,

MORRISON, DELESSEPS, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/04/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

27

---

## Page 2

1

- Mr.

Belmont

- Mr.

Evans

- Mr.

Stanley

- MI.

McAndrews

MT. Belmont

7/11/61

C. A. Evans

CRIMINAL INCELLIGENCE

PROGRAM

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

Harry H. Hansen, & potential criminal informant of the

New York Division, has advised that Delesseps Morrison, who was

recently

appointed American Ambassador to the Organization of

American States, anticipates entering into an oil scheme with

International Time, Inc., & company incorporated under the laws

of New York State..

hansen, who is president of this organization,

advised this scheme would involve the purchase of a large amount

of Venezuelan oil at reduced prices - which would be sold for ap

extensive profit to European countries.

This oil would be secured

cheaply by virtue of the appointment of Morrison as Ambassador

to the Organization of American States. He allegedly will be:

able to obtain the oil through his

contacts in Venezuela.

The supply of oil 1s owned by the Venezuelan Governneit

and administered by the Bureau of Hydrocarbonot the Venezuelan

Government.

Through the intervention of Morrison, hansen adviso

a Law would be passed by the venezuelan Government enabling the

oil to be sold at $1.61 a barrel.

of oil is currently

$2.50. The oil would be purchased by

International Tine,

Inc.,

and resold to foreign countries at

approximately $1.66 a barrel.

It would remain in South Aneric.

until sold to foreign governments which would then transport 11

to Europe for refining.

The oil would never be brought to the United States.

International Time, Inc., would handle the financing and the

profits would be deposited under a number account in a Swiss

bank.

Hansen advised the sale of the oil would have to be

handled in this manner in order to protect Morrison who could

possibly be compromised it his participation in this transaction

were discovered:

Morrison would receive one-hall of the profits

in these transactions.

Hansen related that on 6/29/61 he was in Attorney

James J. Cally's office, 150

Broadway, New York City, where they

discussed the above business deal.

It was decided that Cally

accompanied by one (INU) Diaz, Venezuelan national, not

- 92-2713

TLG: Swo/sa

GY SEP .6

NOT RECORDED

185 AUG 31 1961

196

ORICINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 3

Memorandum to Belmont

Re:

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

Identified, would ily to Venezuela from New York on

the evening of 7/2/61 to further develop these plans.

New York Office is maintaining contact with Hansen for further

developments concerning this.

The

above information is being

furnished to the

White House in connection with an investigation of Morrison

by the FBI with respect to his recent appointment as ambassador

to the Organization of American States.

---

