JFK Assassination System .

Identification Form

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10283-10460.

HQ
92-2717-960

Document Information

FBI
LEG, RO
DIRECTOR, FBI

06/13/1963
2

ABR, TRA, ITALY, ASSOC, VISA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

04/07/1997

INDEFINITE

v9.1
Docld:32303448 Page 1

we
Oo
3


nm,

THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA de
The American Embassy REVIBWED BY B21/d5.

Rome, Italy ON. 3/96 —

D RELEASE IN ee

(a Date: June 13, 1963 1 TOTAL DENIAL /..
To: Director, FBI (92-2717)
Dem From: Legat, Rome (92-68)  (P)
i Subject: ANTONING ANGELO oo

aka Angelo Bruno
ANTI-RACKETEERING
(00: Philadelphia)

ReRomelet to Bureau 4/26/63.

: On June 12, 1963, Dr. Aristide Manopulo,
Central Bureau, Criminal Division, Italian National Police,
Rome, Italy, advised that.Italian Police investigation has
failed.to develop any additional information concerning sub-
ject's travels and activities while in Italy. He stated
Italian Police sources have been alerted and should any in-
formation be. received he will immediately notify the Rome
Office.s° >.

For the Bureau's additional information, on

June 6, 1963, the American Consulate General (ACG), Palermo,

Sicily, Italy, advised that Calogero Sinatra appeared at

the Consulate Generalm June 4 to request revalidation of

his non-immigrant B-2 visa which was issued at Palermo on

April 17, 1962, and used for one entry into the United States

on June 16, 1962. According to the ACG, the visa file which

was initiated when Sinatra made his original application was

forwarded to the American Embassy in Rome in August, 1962, and
had not been returned to the ACG. The ACG stated Sinatra
indicated he wished to depart from Italy on June 10, 1963,
but was informed by the ACG that it would be impossible to
make a decision on his request by that date.

\
3
N
&

4 - Bureau
_ (1 - Liaison Sect; ion) ing REC.
l- Philadelphia’ ‘g2- aan
1 - Legat, Bonn (sent direct
1 - Rome $2268

o&

a cptagaien mar
i Gf 190

\6

Soha rene

—

DocId:32303448 Page 2
