# docid-32310508

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10303-10122

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 64-200-221-8-39

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/29/1955

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

PRJ, TRA, GAMBLING ACT, ASSOC, CP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32310508

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Saw Arterers (2-0018

DEC

ĐN 3/4/98

5668

500/GeL

(TER)

of Saacinternit

(31-10-1859"

40

INDEXER

Date:

To:

From:

Subject:

August 29, 1955

Directox, FBI (64-200-22155at-841

Legat, Mexico (100-280)

COMMUNIST PARTY OF MEXICO

IS - MEXICO

Federal DistrisT.

131-10-350"

Classies by Ap3

Declas

OAtt

724/83

21,326

Re San Antonio letter dated July 14, 1955, requesting

the comments of the Legal Attache as to the background of

Lic. JAVIER ROJO GOMEZ and Professors MANUEL HERRERA ANGELES -

and

RODOLFO ENCISO.

3

U. So Embassy files, Mexico City, reflect that vavlek..

TOO GOMEL was born in Bondojito, Hidalgo in 1898, of Spanish-

He graduated from the National Law School in.

1922. From. 1922 to 1934, he held various minor positions in thei

Distnict Courts in the State of Hidalgo and in Mexico City.

When

General LAZARO CARDENAS became President in 1934,' the new adminis-

tration used JAVIER ROJO GOMEZ as a candidate for the Governor of

Hidalgo.

While Embassy files were not specific, it appeared that

ROJO GOMEZ was elected Governor of Hidalgo.) This information further

disclosed that during the campaign of President AVILA CAMACHO,

'ROJO GOMEZ supported this candidacy with all the available state.

funds, and he depleted the treasury but assured himself a position

AVILA CAMACHO.

As a reward,

arent of the Federal street we Were seen to

as Mayor or Governor of the Federal District.

Embassy files in a report dated November 19, 1943,

stated that ROJO GOMEZ was charged with using his political

position to profiteer on articles of prime necessity,

charcoal, food, etc.

such as

fleftist

but has

This stated that he may be said to be a

connections with international radical move-

ments. It said he is a Catholic but not devout.

Former Confidential Informan

it ost a vace that on september one see

xX-291, fof unknown

of the Mexican Communist Party interviewed several.

several Leader.

heads of the Ministry of Education in order to secure thei

do trement

FO

RECORDED

64 + 2082018-356

820 72 12

• 4o recrostos mado

8Z_ SEP 8 1955

/SEP 20

I.?.

1/22/n

costa

1220y

DocId: 32310508

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Let. to Director, FBI

Re:

COMMUNIST PARTY OF MEXICO

IS - MEXICO

August 29, 1955

"I would have recognized as my duty the assistance at

her wake and accompanied her on her last so journ,

thus to comfort her family as is done among friends.

"I am called Red; I am not..."

The article described JAVIER ROJO GOMEZ as ex-regent

of the city and one of the most vigorous personalities among the

revolutionaries "a la Mexicana."

Confidential Informant MEX-Ifadvised that while JAVIER

ROJO'GOMEZ was head of the Government of the Federal District,

he was considered anti-Communist.

He named his cousin, Colonel

JOSE GOMEZ ANAYA, as Chief of the Secret Service and instructed

him to use strong-armed methods against the Communists.

cording to this

source,

ROJO GOMEZ is not known to associate

with the communists. or to be sympathetic with the Communists at

the present time.

(1(4)

J.

JESUS GALINDO VAZQUEZ, who has furnished reliable

information

in the past and who is ex-Assistant Chief of the Mex-

ican Secret Service Police, advised that he occupied this position

while the first cousin of

JAVIER ROJO GOMEZ, COlonel JOSE GOMEZ

ANAYA, waS Chief of the Secret Service and

during the period that

RO JO

GOMEZ was head of the Government of the Federal District, which

was from 1943 to 1946.

GALINDO VAZQUEZ stated that JAVIER ROJO GOMEZ

was very anti-Communist and under his instructions the Secret Service

Police were sent out all the time to harass the Communists.

GALINDO

VAZQUEZ stated that ROJO GOMEZ was an enemy of VICENTE. LOMBARDO

TOLEDANO and referred to him as a simple charlatan.

(u)

GALINDO VAZQUEZ stated that during the time JAVIER ROJO

GOMEL was head of the Government of the federal District,

the

Colonias La joyita and Bondojito were formed and the land in

these two tracts was sold at 2 pesos a meter to members of the

police force and government employees. He stated he feels certain

that JAVIER ROJO GOMEZ never gave any of this land to the Com-

munist Party but stated it was possible that they could have

secured some of the land through a member. of the Party who was

also a government employee or police officer.

- 3-

DocId: 32310508 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Let.

to Director,

FBI

Re :

COMMUNIST PARTY OF MEXICO

IS - MEXICO

138038°

August 29, 1955

Former G.P. menter

Regarding MANUELA

FERRERA / ANGELES, the Mexico City

daily, "El Universal," dated May 20, 1941,

stated that MANUEL

HERRERA ANGELES, Secretary

of Internal Affairs of the School-

teachers Union,

and three others had; on the previous day, sent

to the National Congress of the Communist Party of Mexico

their

resignations as members of this Party.

They gave as their reasons

that the Communist Party of Mexico had not been properly organized,

former vices had not been corrected, and they were not in accord

with its policy regarding international affairs.

The Mexico City daily, "La Prensa," dated May 18, 1944,

carried an article reportedly based on information furnished by

some members of the Schoolteachers Union regarding the Communist

Group within this union.

This stated that at a secret session

* of the Communist teachers, some were awarded the Dionisio Encina

"medal" as prizes.

among those listed by the article as receiving

unis medar were ManuaL renashA aNGELes and RODOLFO ENCISO MEX

DIONISIO/ENCINA has been Secretary General of the Mexican.

Communist Party

this office has never heard

of a Dionisio Encina

a Ince I 910. " other than In the article mentioned

"medal,

above.

The files of this office contain information attributed

to SIS-239 in early 1945 that JACOBO KHURWITZ was instrumental in

the formation of a book club under the name of Club del Libro

"Mexico.

Among the numerous members listed was the name MANUEL HERRERA ANGELES

Rio Blanco #190, Mexico, D. F. HURWITZ has been identified as a ..

long-time Comintern agent.

The files further reflect that RODOLFO ENCISO was one of

the promoters of the American Continental Congress for Peace held

in Mexico City September 5 - 11, 1949.

Legat and Embassy files

contain no additional information on either MANUEL HERRERA ANGELES

or RODOLFO ENCISO. MEX-Ihas advised that neither of these men

believed

to have any Communist connections or sympathies

at this

time.

Additiona copies of this communication are being en-

closed for the information of the San Antonio Office (100-8061).

Pending.

-4-

DocId: 32310508

Page 4

---

