# docid-32310357

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/6/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10302-10301

• RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

63-7112-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO :

AG

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/18/1961

2

RK, EMP, MED, ASSOC, TEAMSTERS UNION, BUSS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32310357

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

The Attorney General

NOTE:

The informant is Meyer "Mike" Singer, former Teamsters

Union official in Los Angeles, who furnished this information to

our Los Angeles Office on an extremely confidential basis. Our

files contain no pertinent information concerning Earl Scheib;

Earl Scheib Paint Shops; or Frank A. Hatfield.

who was kicked out

man in two independent labor unions which were organized in Los

Angeles in 1958. Doria has been reported in the past as being

close to Hoffa. Dick Kavner is an'international organizer of the

Teamsters Union, who has been reported as working directly under

both Hoffa and Harold J. Gibbons, Executive Vice President of the

Teamsters Union.

Kavner was indicted in St. Louis, Missouri,

in 1954, for violating the Anti-Racketeering Statute, but this

indictment later was dismissed without prosecution.

(92-1100)

The field has been instructed to undertake an immediate,

thorough investigation in this case.

ZEB 10

SSCEIAED

DocId: 32310357

Page 2

---

