# docid-32292761-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10210-10037

HQ JUNE MAIL

62-9-9-1248

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/24/1963

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

THP, MISUR, POLIT, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

16

---

## Page 2

CG 92-350-Sub U

A further discussion was held with Mike sluis,

who joined MARCY, concerning

Detective MARVIN MANDEl of the

Chicago Police Department.

MANDEL has

been previously

identified to the Bureau as a lst District vice detective

who has caused considerable consternation because of the

excellent investigative work being done in regard to vice

activities within the Loop strip joints in which MARCY has

an interest.

MARCY gave ELLIS specific instructions to stay

away from MANDEL and to issue instructions that no one is

to attempt to pay MANDEL Off.

mooting with Area AcAd to no the the cute, emical, ril.

FIO RITO was sworn in as Alderman or the Ist Warde It was

noted that at this meeting,

, Alderman JOHN TELLIAN of

Chicago's 47th Ward, attempted to introduce a measure barring

CE ESPFA

FTO RITO from sitting on the Council, stating that FIO RITO

was not duly elected to the office because of irregularities

in his residence.

It was noted that Alderman THOMABAKEENE CHICKEN

immediately moved to have HOELLAN quieted,

and refused to

alloW HOELLAN to introduce his measure, stating that it was

not a proper motion at that time.

On the 19th, MARCY, D'ARCO and FIO RITO held a

discussion regarding a

luncheon proposed by antHou

roland, Clerk of the Probate Court, who has issued an ¿l

Invitation to TIO RITO"to have luncheon with agents of the

FBI who are known to these persons to be working on organized

crime in the Chicago area.

It is pointed out that GIROLAMI, an informant of

the Chicago Division, feels that FIO RITO might be inclined

to sit with agents and discuss the situation within the

Ist Ward.

MARCY advised D'ARCO thathe felt it was up to

FIO RITO as to whether he desired to meet with the agents

stating that "he knows when to shut them off if they start

reaching out." D'ARCO also felt that it would be a good

idea for FIO RITO to sit with the agents.

As of this date,

no decision has as yet been made as to whether FIO RITO will

joint with the agents.

On 4/22/63, ANTHONY TISCI met with MARCY, at

which time he advised

that agents of the Chicago Division had

- 3 -

---

