AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

val
DocId:32301467 Page 1

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/17/201

Agency Information

FBI
124-10278-10302

HQ

CR 92-4219-46

Document Information

FBI
DOHERTY, EMMETT B.
DIRECTOR, FBI

03/29/1963
30

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

04/16/1998

INDEFINITE

“RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2



LA 92-657

INFORMANTS

DoclId:32301467 Page 2

LA Tel
SU 257

LA T-24
JOSEPH I. BREEN, JR.

LA T-30
LA 4222-¢

LA T-43

STANLEY SACHIN

SOS Telephone Exchange
Los Angeles, California

LA T-45

Mrs. CELE RUSKIN
Former Manager,

Doheny Towers,

Los. Angeles, California

LA T+48
LA 4414-c#

LA T-50
LA 3445-c

LA 7-52
Identical to LA T-43

LA T=55
LA 4415-c

LA 7-58
LA 4410-c-TE

LA T-59
Sergeant JOE CALABRESE

Clark County Sheriff's Office

Las Vegas, Nevada

-Be-
{COVER PAGE


LA 92-657

LA T-60
CG 6215-c

LA T-61
W. LLOYD BELL, Investigator
Nevada Gaming Commission
Las Vegas, Nevada

LA T+62
SF 2430-¢

LEAD
LOS ANGELES

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA: Will follow and report
on subject’s activities,

- Ck

COVER PAGE

DocId:32301467 Page 3


LA 92-657

PHILIP D'ANDRE, PAUL DE LUCIA, GEORGE E. BROWN, and WILLIAM
BIOFF for conspiracy to extort money from the movie industry.
ROSSELLI was sentenced to ten years imprisonment and paroled
in August, 1947.

LA T-30, in November, 1962, advised that in October,
1962, a group meets as held in Chicago, Illinois. Those
present were JOHNXANDERSON, who is the JOHN ANDERSON having
an interest in Télévision City, Phoenix, Arizona, and is
» promoting TV City, MIKE BENEDICT, DONJO MENDELVINE, JIMMY
\\ALLEGHRETTI, DALTON SMITH of the electrical contracting firm,
/ "MANNY SKAR, and a brother of DONJO MENDELVINE. LA T-30
/ advised that JIMMY ALLEGHRETTI and MANNY. SKAR apparently have
some power in the criminal element of Chicago, Illinois.
LA T-30 advised the purpose of this meeting was to arrange
the financing of SMITH's contracting firm, and it was decided
that they would finance SMITH's contracting firm.and that
the Chicago people would see that SMITH's firm got work in

nea and Las Vegas areas.

wv) ph

MANNG SKARw 9 Cue

LA T-48 and LA T-43 in 1962 advised that MANNY SKAR

was an associate of ALLEN SMILEY and that on several occasions
in 1962 they were in telephonic contact and that MANNY SKAR
was known upon. occasion to have been in the Los Angeles area.

: Neither LA T-48 nor LA T-43 were able to advise whether there

had been a personal contact between MANNY SKAR and SMILEY
while SKAR was in the Los Angeles area.

in

The Pasadena "Star-News" under date line January
8, 1963, carried the following newspaper article:

"The plush Sahara Inn, which opened last
summer. with hoopla and Hollywood celebrities, early
today was raided by authorities who confiscated
$6,000 in narcotics.

"MANNY SKAR, owner of the $10 million 'Las
Vegas of the Midwest' and reputed pal of Chicago
syndicate hoodlums, was among those arrested.

"Chief investigator RICHARD CAIN said
marijuana was found under a pile of clothing in

DoclId:32301467 Page 4


LA 92-657

On January 17, 1963, procedure to obtain information
from a bank account from a Canadian bank was discussed with
Sergeant ART BATES, Royal Canadian Mounted Police, Vancouver,
British Columbia. He advised that practically all Canadian
bankers refused to furnish this information to any law
enforcement agencies except on a court order. Even then they
normally will not make the information available in advance
but merely produce the documents in court.

On January 17, 1963, this matter was discussed with
BILL YOUNG, Manager, Toronto Dominion Bank, Main Office,
Vancouver, B. C. He advised he would check into. the matter
and furnish whatever information could be made available.

On January 18, 1963, ERIC ALLEN of Toronto Dominion
Bank, Main Office, advised that the only information which
could be furnished was the fact that BEN SMILEY does have a
regular commercial account at their bank and at that branch.

On January 18, 1963, Mr. H. A, WINTER of the
District Office, Toronto Dominion Bank, advised that Toronto
Dominion and other banks in Canada operate under the "Bank
Act of Canada." While there is nothing specific in this Act
that provides the confidential relationship between customer
and client this is covered by common law, the custom
throughout Canada. The only way in which any information
will be disclosed from a customer's account is either by the
customer's authorization or by court order. If on a court
order the data is then produced in court only by an authorized
representative of the bank. He advised that there have been
instances where bankers have made exceptions to this and have
been sued and damages collected from them as a result.

-21-

DocId:32301467 Page 5



LA 92-657

PERSONAL EXPENDITURES

Mr. FRED SALERNO, Salerno Brothers Interior
Decorators, 5910 Noble Street, Van Nuys, California, advised
SAS WILLIAM J, NOLAN and EMMETT B, DOHERTY on March 20,
1963, that their company had done some of the interior
decorating in SMILEY's apartment at Doheny Towers, 838 North
Doheny Drive, Los Angeles, California, and that although
his records were presently in the possession of his accountant
for income tax purposes, that his total charge for this
service to ALLEN SMILEY would have been in the vicinity of
$1,200 to $1,500. He stated that in his opinion the total
estimate for the interior decorating and furnishing which
Pea had done to his apartment would be in the vicinity of
3,500.

ACTION BY OTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCIES

LA T-55 in February, 1963, advised ALLEN SMILEY
received a notification from the Bureau of Internal Revenue
regarding his income tax status and that SMILEY was visibly
shaken and very apprehensive as to what information the
Bureau of Internal Revenue had regarding his income.

Examining Officer LESLIE BUCHANAN, of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, advised in March, 1963, that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is currently conducting
a character investigation regarding ALLEN SMILEY in order
that a determination of his status in his application for
permanent residency might be made.

Docld:32301467 Page 6


1 :
SE 92-221
AGG:meh
At Vancouver, B, C., Canada:
The following investigation by SA ALFRED
On January 7, 193, Vantouver City Direct

G. GUNN:
ory lists

a BEN and FLORENCE SMILEY, 1080 West 47th, No occupation
listed, Vancouver telephone directory lists BEN SMILEY, same

address, telephone AM 1-5880.

On January 7, 1962, records of RCMP, Vané
reflect that a BEN SMILEY, born April 27, 1913, was
on May 15, 1958, for double parking.

On January 7, 1963, records of Vancouver

ouver,
ticketed

City

Police disclosed that on September 16, 1960, BEN SMILEY, 1080

Wést A7th Street, reported’a diamond atick pin lost
zhugust 11, 1960, he reported theft of clothing and

On January 8, 1963, Retail Credit Bureai
disclosed a file for BEN SMILEY wife FLORENCE since
His address October 18
March 24, 1960, was 1080 West 47th where hé owned ¢

AS of: -1938° he was listed a8 a tailor and as of February 9, 1947, .

hé was listed as a manufacturer's agent. ‘He has ha:
use Of credit over the years, In 1957 there was a
of $1778 which was paid after suit. He was describ
1952 as béing in his 40s, His bank Was listed as &:
Nova Scotia, Hastings and Columbia Branch as of Jan’

On January 18, 1963, ERIC ALLEN, Toronto
Bank, Main Officé, 560 West Hastings Street, advise

e On
a wallet,

records
1938,

1946, was 1521 West 60th, and on

he home,

d very little
collection
ed as of

he Bank of
wary 1960,

Dominion
d that “BEN |

SMILEY, 1080 West 47th ee has .a 3 regular commercial account

with their bank.
At Victoria, B. Co:

on January 14, 1963, records of Motor Vehicle Branch

s disclosed that there registration number 1048563 is
Chrysler, four door hard top, serial number 8123213

a 1962"
551, B. C,

license (1962) numbér 134-580, in the name 6f BEN SMILEY, 1080

West 47th, Vancouver, This car was purchased new b;
Records of Driver's License Division refl’

SMILEY has Driver's License number 294596 which eXp
1966, He was born April 27, 1912, in Russia, 6'°1"

13°

y him,

ect a BEN H. ~
irés April 275
>» 165 pounds,

preg”.

DocId:32301467 Page 7
