# docid-32575059

## Page 1

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNME

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

Director, FBI

Legat, Havana (92-9)

CONFPENTIA

DATE: July 29, 1958

SAMUEL

MANNARINO,

was.,

79/03

ALL INV

PTOM COME NINE

ANTI- RACKETEERING

GABRIEL MANNARINO,

was.,

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Reference Havana letters dated May 27, 1958.

On July 21, 1958, PCI Arthur Newman (concea,), Credit

Manager of the gambling casino at the Hotel Nacional, advised that

inquiry by him has failed to develop any information that the

MANNARINOS presently have any gambling interests in Cuba.

Source

said that sometime ago SAMXMANNARINO told him that he had lost a

large sum of money in Cuba in the old Sans Souci Night Club operation

and that he had no intention of investing more money in gambling

operations in Cuba in the near future.

Source noted that in the

past the MANNARINOS have shipped slot machines to Cuba. Sourçe

believed that most of these shipments have been through ALBERTO

/ARDURA MOYA.

Source, noted that ARDURA is the "bag man" for?

ROBERTO/FERNANDEZ MIRANDA, the brother-in-law of Cuban President,

Quit FULGENCIO BATISTA

Source said that since FERNANDEZ MIRANDA receives

50% of the "take" from all slot machines operating in Cuba, ARDURA

usually is the individual to whom slot machines are exported

the United States.

Source said this is done by ARDURA to insure

control of the slot machines.

Havana sources have been instructed to be on the alert

for any information that the MANNARINOs have gambling

interests

in Cuba. Ca

(e)

Extra

copies of this letter have been prepared for

forwarding by the Bureau to the Pittsburgh (92-228, 92-236)

office.

4 - Bureau:

or n 27

1

- Havana

DJB: MEG $201

(5)

Classif

Declassity/o

1c0-

8-4-1348

SPUBIANGEL

OAOR 40. 187

3 13 6N.2d

120180) 50 1 3

boncH

BEC- 20

122711-57

15 JUL 30 1958

5DAUG4

1958

7

CONE DENTIAL

DocId: 32575059 Page 1

ND COM

---

