| _ FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No: 1

THIscaseoRIcINATeDAT Savannah : _ reno. 43-93  ddk
Seer pawns | peperon wasn wleoy
Savannah 610-by | 8255859) oavron, JACKSON SINS, TIT
1 "GHANGED: THOMAS HARVEY HERMAN; JOHN JACK "éRossr, CHARACTER OF CASE
Wey Jack Dale Wi1lianss —< r SELECTIVE SERVICE i
. ILLEGAL WEARING OF UNIFORIE

Nya: Sa, mw
Fee

Tt

fevonS

References

Details:

fe Obi oe TAMCE
[EBT
BECEIAED-HyuBO

8) 3 25 uy te

LY jwas not of USN. 2 a
auyee Pe GROSSI on grounds he was only 16 years old.

. Subjects interviewed several times and told various

stories and untruths but subject GROSSI consistently
stated that he was 18 and had not registered for
Selective Service. AUSA Savannah dismissed IW
Charges against GROSSI on basis of additional informa~
tion tending to show that uniform GROSSI was wearing

At later date, AUSA dismissed SS charges
On basis
of information réceived from probation authorities, GROSSI

PERT > r2 ease to New Jersey State Home for Boys. Information
i wes on led against-subject HERMAN charging IWU' (Navy uniform)
Let Se a {aild HERMAN entered plea of guilty under juvenile delinquency
(ORE. on such illegal wearing. Received two years' probation.
SL Disposition sheet and probation flash submitted. No record
") yhington, De Ce that either subject enlisted USN.

- Pe age sth

oe

Report of SA Taylor J. Sims, Savannah, 1252
an

The title of this case is being marked ‘changed to reflect the
true name of the subject previously designated at Jack Dale
Williams as* JOHN tenes GROSSI, with alias Jack Dale, Willians.

neal wa &

Tr
TAYLOR JACKSON “SINS Til, Specia: 1 Agent t
Federal Bureau of in wastigati ‘tion i i
Savannah, Georgia ff

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

‘APPROVED AND IAL AGENT
FORWARDED: IN CHARGE,
Sarr
peere)

1 BsFF 4 2

Docld:32563819 Page 1



SV 13-93

This agent can testify that on April 28, 19h, subject HERMAN gave the
a4 following signed statement: :

H : "Savannah, Ga,
4 April 28, 194)

"T, Thomas Harvey Herman, make the following voluntary statement to
Taylor J. Sims, who has identified himself as a Special Agent of the
Fe Be Ie No threats or promises were made to get me to give this and
I know it may be used in courte

‘When I gave Mr. Sims the signed statement about a month ago, I told him
several things that are not the truth, Actually I was never an the S, S.
Mills and have never been in the Merchant Marine, Also I have obtained
money by saying I was in the Navy, I did this six or seven times, and
each time I was with Jack Williams, who was arrested with me here in.
Savannah. I really don't know what his real name is. We got $10. to $12.
to $15. each time, and I know that the people gave us the money because

we had told them we were in the Navy. This happened in Norfolk, Baltimore,
and a few other placese I have had the Navy uniform about 9 months and
was wearing it when I got the money from these people.

f
i
i
}

‘iy mother's name is Glada Herman, and she last resided on 216 California
Ave., Atlantic City, Ne Je My brother Gilbert Herman is in the Navye
I am 17 yrss old.

"Y have read the above statement which is true to the best of my knowledge.
t : : /s/ Thomas Herman "
C Witness: Taylor J. Sims, ITI, FBI, Savannah, Ga.
Special Agent SIMS can also testify that subject GRUSSI on April 28, 19)
gave the following signed statements ‘

“Savannah, Ga.
April 28, 19hh

i" "I, John Jack Grossi, make the following voluntary statement to Taylor J.
Sims, who has identified himself to me as a Special Agent of the FEI. No
threats or promises were made to me to give this statement and I know it
may be used in courte - y

Docld:32563819 Page 2


5

SV. 143-93

"When I was first questioned by Mr. Sims around the last of March this
year, I told him that my name was Jack Dale Williams, but this is not

true and my real name is John Jack Grossi. I did this becuase I didn't
like the name and because I didn't want my mother to know about my trouble.
I also told Mr, Sims before that I had no criminal record, but this also
is not true because I was arrested and placed in New Jersey State Home for
Boys at Jamesburg, Ne J. I was arrested in Pennsylvania, the town of
Media. I was arrested for running away from home.

"I also stated in my first statement that my home was in-Florida, tut

this is not true, My home is 268 17th Ave., Patterson, N. Je where my
mother, Mrs, Rose Grossi, lives. My brother, Albert, is in Army Air
Corps, and my sister, Jean Engold, lives with my mother. I told Sims”
before that I had no brother or sister, and made up the first name I gave
for my mother. My father, John Grossi, is in the Army. Also I have never

.been on the S,. S, Mills as I first said.

"As I-said before I have not registered for the draft although I am 18
years old.

"About six times during past year I have told people I was in the Navy and
by means of such statement I have asked and received from them various

sums of money ranging from $10. to $18. each time. Usually this happened
while Thomas Harvey Herman and I were hitchhiking. The first time was
coning out of Philadelphia, and other times in Baltimore, Raleigh, N. C.,
Washington, D. C., and Norfolk, Va. Of course neither Herman or I have
ever been in the Navy. At these times we were wearing the uniforms we were
wearing when first picked up here in Savannah. It was not tive, as I first
said, that I just bought the uniform a month ago. I have had it about 8 or
9 months. I can't remember any of the people who gave us the money, but

I do know that they gave me the money because I said I was in the Navy and
because I had the uniform on, Herman was also wearing his uniform during
that time, and he has never been a Merchant seaman. I don't remember getting
any money by this means in Savannahe

"T have read the above statement of nearly 2 pages and it is true to the
best of my knowledge. I would also like to say at this time, that any
mercy shown by the court will be very deeply appreciated, If released, I
hope to return to N. Js and try me best to enter in the armed forces
immediately,
}
(Signed) John Jack Grossi "

Witness: Taylor J. a un, FBI
Savannah

i
| Docld: 32563819 Page 3


i
| Docld: 32563819 Page 4

SV'U3-93

Special Agent SIMS can also testify that on May 8, 194) he interviewed
subject GROSSI at the Chatham County Jail, Savannah, Georgia, and that

at such time subject GROSSI was again given an opportunity to tell the
truth concerning his age. Subject GROSSI stated that he fully realized
that he would not be guilty of a violation’ of the Selective Training and
Service Act of 1940 if he was not 18 years old. He stated that it would y
certainly be his desire to state that he was born in 1927 in order to

avoid such prosecution but he again stated that he was born July 5, 1925 at
Patterson, New Jersey and that he had never registered under the Selective
Training and Service Act. At such time he was questioned carefully about
whether he was a parolee or an escapee from the New Jersey State Home

for Boys at Jamesburg, New. Jersey. He stated that he was only a parolee
and he had never escaped from such home,

Special Agent SIMS can also testify that on May 8, 19Wh, he interviewed
subject HERMAN at the Chatham County Jail, Savannah, Georgia, at which

time he admitted that several facts he had previously given were not

true; namely, that he was living at the Young Hotel, Tennessee Avenue,
Atlantic City, when he met subject GROSSI and that he had previously run
away from home because his mother, MRS, GLADA MAE HERMAN, 216 California
Avenue, Atlantic City, had made him stay home. He stated that she was not
dead as he had first told the agente He stated that he had later gone

back and tried to locate his mother but that she had moved from such address
and he did not know where she was located at the present time. :

WILLIAM C. LASSITER, Lte
U. S. Naval Reserve ~~

s. Or o.

Ite LASSITER who had originally questioned the two subjects on the day

they were apprehended by military police authorities was interviewed by

the writer concerning the uniform that subject GROSSI was wearing at the

time of his apprehension. Lt. LASSITER advised that it was his opinion

that the uniform itself was a Merchant Marine uniform and not one of the

Us Se Navye He stated that since GROSSI was not wearing any Navy insignia
that such uniform, although it appeared very similar to a regular Navy
uniform, would not be classed by the Navy as suche He stated that he could
not say as to whether the two red service stripes which GROSSI had on one

of the sleeves of the umiform which he was wearing were Navy stripes although

it was his opinion that ordinary Merchant Seamen do not wear such service

stripes. He stated that the main distinguishing feature between the uniform
of the two subjects was that the Navy uniform which HERMAN was wearing con
tained three small stripes around the collar which definitely designated

it asa Navy uniform, and that GROSSI'S uniform did not have such three small
stripes.

7 Nagy Av 35

\

.



SV 43-93
PROSECUTIVE ACTION

The facts concerning the uniform worn by subject GROSSI as related by Lt.
WILLIAM C. LASSITER, U.S, Naval Reserve, were discussed with Assistant

Ue S. Attorney JULIAN HARTREDGE, Savannah, Georgia, who advised that it

was his opinion also that the uniform which subject GROSSI was wearing

was not the uniform of the U.S. Navy and that he was dismissing the charges
which had been brought against the subject GROSSE for Mlegal Wearing of
the Uniform. He stated that the Selective Service charge would be continued
against him, however.

On May 8, 1944, Mr. HARTRIDGE advised he had received information from the
Ue S. Probation Officer at Savannah, Georgia, to the effect that subject
GROSSE is only 16 years of age and that accordingly there was no violation
of the Selective Training and Service Act for failure to register on the
part of the subject and that. he was dismissing such charges. He stated
that the subject would be held for the New Jersey State Home for Boys and
that GRUSSI would be returned to the custody of such institution.

MR. EDWIN C. HARDISON, U..S. Probation Officer,Savannah, Georgia, advised
the writer that he had received information from the probation officials
to the effect that GROSSI is actually only 16 years old and that he
served some time for juvenile delinquency at the New Jersey State Home
for Boys at Jamesburg, New Jersey.

Mre SCOTT A. EDWARDS, clerk, U. S, District Court, Savanah, Georgia,

_ presented court records on THOMAS HARVEY HERMAN which reflected that a

criminal information was filed by the U. S. Attomey on one count for
violation of the juvenile delinquency act in that HERMAN did unlawfully,
wilfuly and knowingly wear the duly prescribed uniform of an enlisted man
of the U.S. Navy. On May 11, 19h he entered a plea of guilty to such
charge and was given two years probation with the exception that he would
be discharged from probation on and after his entry in military service
of the United States for the period of such service.

Ir

By teletype dated May 2, 1944, Washington Field Division advised that a
check of the records in the Navy Department failed to reflect any Navy
enlisted personnel record issued for either of the subjects but it was
stated that one GILBERT ARTHUR HERMAN, born November 2h, 1922, Cuba, home
address 342 Taft St., Bristol, Pa., serving aboard the USS Thomas Jefferson,
might be HERMAN'S brothers

= Su
WAkAvy ss

| DocId:32563819 Page 5


SV 4-93

. ENCLOSURE: TO THE BUREAU - one disposition sheet for GROSSI.

“one probation flash letter for HERMAN.

- PENDING -

oe Sms

Docld:32563819 Page 6



SV 43-93

~ UNDEVELOPED LEADS -

i THE NEWARK FIELD DIVISION:

: AT JAMESBURG, NEW JERSEY, will obtain from the records of the New
E ‘Jersey State Home for Boys, subject GROSSI'S legal residence, his
birth date, place of birth, identity of relatives,

It is also requested that the Bureau of Vital Statistics be checked
to further verify subject GROSSI'S birth date. (This lead was set forth
in Teletypes to Newark dated May 8, 19h) and May 16, 1944.)

- PENDING -

sg Nr lk
id Sos
SC SESE

; Docld:32563819 Page 7


FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

‘THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT.
Savannah : HENS 13-93 dele
penion ror | meronr MADR EY

REPORT MADE AT | DATE WHEN MADE:
WHICH MADE

f |
Savanneh | Grob. |462552935-8.% savin sacrson sis, UT
39535505

TITLE "| CHARACTER oF case
CHANGED: THOHAS HARVEY HARMAN; JOM JACK GROSST,
Was, Jack Dale Willianse | SELECTIVE SERVICE
TOLEGAL WEARING OF SNIPS

beta ectec cea Subjects interviewed several tines and told various
stories and untruthe but subject GRISS] consistently
stated that he was 15 and had no& registered for
Selective Service, “USA Savannah dismissed TU
charges against CROSSE on basis of additional inforsa-
tion tending te show that aniform GROSSI was wearing
was not of USN. At later date, AUSA dismissed SS charges
vs, GROSST on grounds he was only 16 years old. On basis
of information received from probation authorities, GROSST
released to New Jersey State Howe for Heys. Information
filed against subject HGRYAY charging T@U (Navy uniform)
and, FERNAN entered plea cf guilty under juvenile delinquency
act. on such illegal wearinge Received two years’ probation.
Disposition sheet and probation flash subnitted. Mo record
Washington, Do Cé that either subject enlisted Usi.

=P
. i

Referenca: Report of SA Taylor J, Sims, Savannah, §-25-lile
Deteils: The title.of this case is being varked changed to reflect the
oe true nase of the subject previously designated o% Jack Dale '
Willians as, GOH! JACK CROSSI, with alias. Jack Dale Willians.

Savannah, Georgia

‘APPROVED AND : ‘SPECIAL AGENT

Conuanonet A eunae: DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES ~

FZIEZSF- ~ |

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

LUSA, Savannah |

2 Savannah

\

fcc FILE COPY
a |

Hayy ex WES Ie

| Docla: 32563819 Page 8
1 ig)


Sv 13-93 :

This agent can teatify that on April 28, Whig oubject HERUAN gave the
following signed staterent:
‘ -tSavannati, Gas
| April 28, lold

"T, Thomas Narvey Herman, xake ‘the follewing voluntary statexent to
Taylor J. Sims, who has identified hinself as a Special Agent of the

Poe Bo Ie Ho threats oy promises were mats ‘to got ne to give this and

i lmow it say be used in courts

When I gave i. Sime the signed statement about a month ago, I told hia
several things that are not the teuth. Actually I was never én the 8. So
Wills and have never been in the Yerchant Marine. Also I hava obtainad
money by eaying I was in the Navys I did this six or seven times, and
each time I was with Jack Williams, whe was arrested with ne ‘here ain
Savannah I really don't know what his ronl nane ie, We got $10. vo (12,
to $15. each time, and I know that the people gave us the meney bacauso
we had told then we were in the Navy. This happeried in forfolk, Baltixore,
end a few other placess I have had the Navy uniform about 9 sonthe and
was wearing it when I got the money from these people.

tty nothor's name is Glada Herman, and she last resided on 216 California
AVGo, Atlantic City, No Jo My brother Oilbert Herman is in the Mavye
Lan 17 yrao Olds
" have vead the’ above statenent which ‘ts fame to the best of my knowledge.
/of ‘Thosns Barman’ ©
Witness: Taylor J, Sins, Iii, FBY, Savarmah, Ga.
Special agent S1Us can also testify that subject OROSST on April 28, 194L
. gave the following signed statenernt:
*Bavannah, Ode
April, 28, 19kh
"I, John Jack Grossi, make the following voluntary statement to Taylor J.
Sins, who has identified himself te me as a Special Agent of the FET. Wo

threats or prowlses were made to mo to sive this statexent and I knéw it
may be used in courts

Docld:32563819 Page 9


BV 13-93

‘hen I was fixst questioned by Hre Sina aywind the last of March this
year, I told him that my nano was Jack Malo Willians, but thie is not

true and my reall name ig John Jack Grdesi, 2 did’ this becuase I didn't
ike the name and because. I didn’t want my mother te know ebout my troubles
T also told i, Sins bofore that I lad no oriminal record, wit this also

is not tiue because I vas arrested and pliced in Rew Jorsey State Home for
Boys at Janesburg, Ne J. T was. arrested in Pennsylvania, tho tow of
Media, % was arrested for running away from home. i
"y also stated in my first statement that ay hone wag in Florida, but

this is not time, My hone ie 263 17th Aves, Pattersons Ne Jo where ny
mother, Hire. Rose Grossi, Lives. ‘y brother, Albert, is in Army Air
Corpa, and my sister, Jean Engold, lives with my mother, T told Sime
vefere that I had no brother ox sister, aid made.tp the first name i gave
for wy mother. vy father, John Grossi, is in the Army, Also 1 have never
been on the Ss S. Wills as I first seid’ E

. ag 1 sald before I have not registered fox tha draft although I am 16
years olds '

“about six tinés during past yoar I have told people Iwas in the Navy and
by meang of such statement f have asked ard received from than various 7
sums of -mondy ranging frou #10» to $28, each timo, Usually thia happened
while Thomas Harvey Berman and 1 werd hitebhiking. The first tine was

coming out of Philadelphia, and other times in Baltizore, Raleigh, No Ces
Woshington, De Coy and Norfolk, Vas Of course neither Herman or i have

ever been in the Navy. At those ties we wore waaring the uniforss we wore
wearing when fires picked up here in Savannah. 1% was not thug, as I first
said, that i just bought the uniform a month agoe T have had it about 8 ar

9 months.e I can't ronouber any of tho people who gave us the money, tt

I do know that they gave m@ the money becausé I said 1 was in the Havy and
because I had the uniform on. Herman was aldo wearing his uniforn during
that tive, and he kas never been a Merchant geasano I don’t renexber gotting
any money by this meang in Savannaho

*y have raad the above steteuant-of nearly 2 pages and it is true to the

best of ny knowledges J would aleo Mike to say at this tine, thad any

nerey ahow by the court will be vary deeply appreciated. If released, 1

hope to return to Ne Je and try me best to enter in the armed forces ;
demediately. - i :

_ (Signed) John Jack Grose 4 \

* Witneset Taylor Jy Sina, IZI, FBr
~ Savannah

| pocta:32563819 Page 10


sv i-93.,

Special Agont SiuS can also testify that on Nay 8, loki he interviewad
gabjocth GROSS at the Chathan County Jail, Savannah, Ceorgla, and that

at such tine subject GROSSI was again given an opportunity to tell the
truth concerning his ages Subject GROSSE stated thet he fully realised
that he would ‘not be guilty of a violation! of the Selective Training and
Service Aob of. 1910 4f he was not 12 years old, He stated that it would
cortainly be hie dasire to state that he waa born in 1927 in order to
@yoid auch progecition tut he again atated that ho wag born July 5, 1925 at
Pattergon, New Jersey and “that. he had never registered under the Selective
Training and Service Acts Av such time he was questioned carefully about
whether he was a paroles or an exeapes. fron. the few Jersey State Houe

for Boya at Janesmurg, New Jérsoye He stated that he was only a paroles
and he had never escaped from such ‘homes 7 es

Special Agent SIMS can alvo teatify that on Yay 8, 29k, he interviewed
subject HERMAN a% the Chatham County Jail, Savannah, Ceorgia, at which

timo he admitted that several. facta he had previously given were not

true; nanely, that he was living at the Young Hotel, Tennessee Avenue,
Atlantic Clty, when ho mat subject GROSSI and thet he' had previously xun
away from hore because his vother, 8S, GLADA MAE HERMAN, 216 California
Avamé, Atlantic City, had nade him stay hones He stated that she was not
dead as he had first told the agent. He stated that he had Jater gone

back and tailed to locate hie mother but that she had roved fro such addrags
and he did not know where she was located at the present tins.

WILETAU C. LASSIPER, Lt.
bre Be aval Reserve oT

u ON Pao

Lt. LASSITER who had originally questioned the two subjects on the day

they were apprehended by military police authorities was interviewed by

the writer concerning the utiifors that subject GROSSI was wearlng at the
time of his apprahenslons lt. LASSITER advised that it waa his opinion

that, the uniform itself was a Yorchant Marine uniforn and not one of the

Us So. Havye Ha stated thet sincd GRUSSI was not wearing any Navy tncignia
that such uniform, although it appeared vory similar to a regular Navy
uniform, would not be classed by the Navy as suche He stated that he could
not say og to whether the two red service stripes which GROSS! had on one

ef the sleeves of the uniform which ho wag wearing wore Navy stripes although
it was his ‘opinion that ordinary Merchant Seaman do not. wear such service
stripes. fe Stated that the nain distinguishing feature between the uniform
of the twe subjects was that the Navy uniform which HERMAN wae wearing con

k tained three snl etripes areund the collar which definitely deaignated

H it asa Navy uniform, and that GROSSI'S uniform did not have ouch three srall
} stripes, : a :

Docld:32563819 Page 11


SV 43-93
PROSECUTIVE 2oTLat

“The facts concerring the unifora worn by subject GROSSE ae rolated by Ube.

WLILIDE Co: IASSITEA, Up. 8, Naval Reserve, were distussed with Assistant

Ue Se Attemey JULI UARTHINSE, Savannah, Georgia, who advised that it

wou his opinion alae that the uniform which. subject GROSST was wearing

was not.the uniform of the U, S, Navy ard-that he was dismlesing the charges
which had been brooght aveinet the eubject GROSSE for Wlegal Vearing of
the Uwiforn, He stated that the Selsetiva Service charge would be continmed

agsinst hing however,

On May 8, 19uh, Mr. HARTRIDOS advised he had reesived information from the
Ve Se Probation Officer at savannah,’ Ggorgia, to the effect that-subject
GROSSE is erly 16 years,of aya dnd thet accordingly thore was. no violation
of the Selective Training and Service Act for failure to register on the.
part of the subject ard that ha was ignissing mich charges. Ho stated
that the subject would be heid for tha tiew Jersey State Howe for Boys and
that GRUSST would be returned te the dustedy ef such institutions

HR, BDYIN C, RARDISOM, Uo S. Probation Officer, Savanuah,' Coorgia, advised
the writer that he had roceived information from the probetion officials
te the effect. that GROSSI is actually only 16 years old and thet he
served soe tine for juvenile delinavancy at the New Jersey State Horo
for Yoys at Janesbarg, New Jeraoye

My. SCOTT A. EDWANDS, clerk,’ U, S. Dietriet Court, Savannah, Georgi»,
presented court records on THONAS HARVEY WahuaN which reflected that a
eriminal information wag fled by the U. S. Attemay on one count for
violation of the juvenile delinquency act in that HERMAN did unlawfully,
wilfuly and imowingly wear the duly presorivsd uniform of an enlisted man
of the 0.5, Navy. Gn May li, Igld he entered 4 plea of guilty to such
charges and was given two years probatLon with the exception that he would
be discharged from probation on and after his entry in military service
of the United States for the period of such sarvice, |
uF \
By teletype dated Vay 2, 19kl;:Fashington Field Division advised that a
eheck of the rocords in the Navy Departaent felled to reflect. any avy
enlisted pergormel record issued for githar of the subjects bit it was
stated that one GIL@ERT ARTHUR HERSAN, born November 2h, 1922, Cubay hone
address 342 Taft St., Bristol, Pa,, serving aboard the USS Thorau Jefferson,
might be HERSAN'S brotnay.. F F

\ Docld:32563819 Page 12


SY 43693

EXCLOSUREs TO TRE BUREAU one Cispasition sheet, for CHOSST
one probation flash latter for HERAT,

- PENDING -

eon oe gk
y ™“

| Docld:32563819 Page 13


SY 43-93

= TSDEVELOGER LEAMS =

¥

THE WEWARE PIELD DIVESTON:

AN JAUNSBUKO, NEW JERSEY, will, obtain fron the reeards of the New
Jersoy State Hono for Boys, subject OROSSI'S legal resideuce, hig
birth dates, place of birth, identity of relatives.

Th is alse requested that the Rareau of Vital Statiubles. be ohoekod
te further verify subject CHOSST'S birth dates (This lead was aot forth
in Teletypes to Newark dated May 6, 19lly and May 16, 19hte)

= PENDING

| Docld:32563819 Page 14
