)
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10294-10491
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 92-3171-597
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: LEG, PA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 01/17/1962
* PAGES: 3
i SUBJECTS :
SGI, TRA, US EMBASSY, PA, TELCAL
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION ; — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 04/02/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

) va
| Docta: 32308633 Page 1

482


DOIAK S SUSE yest

THE FOREIGN SERVICE Ge [este

. > OF THE ia ia 4. UE FOR
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA SRSSTPICATION
American Embassy eee

Paris 8, France

- Date: January 17, 1962 eer
am Director, FBI . wa Wf -

From: Legat, oe (92-14) (Rc)

Subject: UEL M. ancy y
ANTI-RACKETEERING

Bureau 1/9/62. (“)

A check with the Telephone Unit, U. S. Embassy,
Paris, of long distance telephone calls made from the 5
U. S. Embassy, Paris, to the U. S. Embassy; Madrid, on 3}
12/22/61 failed to disclose any telephonic communicati
from any of the principal U. S.Embassy offices at Paris,
including the Charge d‘Affaires' office / (BK)

In respect to Legat Madrid's question as to
whether Assistant Legat KEENAN. recalls if the telephon
number of the direct line in the Madrid Office, 2 26 61
was furnished ‘to JAVIER OCANA of the Alien Brigade of the |co we
Directorate General of Security (DGS) during the course|of |~ >
*his investigation of the subject in November 1961, KEEN. pa
has endeavored to mentally fix the transactions which tqo}
place in instant case during the period of his assignment at
gi Madrid. It is his opinion that he did furnish the Alien
Brigade of the DGS the direct telephone number to the Madrid
| Office, in addition to the listed number and extension. The
decision to do so was predicated upon the. belief that in j
view. of the importance the Bureau attached to instant matter,
it. was deemed advisable to do so in order to preclude any
possible telephonic delay or switchboard error that might’ be
encountered on the week end of 11/25/61 by personnel of the
DGS in the event wd, was found Regessary to contact the Madrid oe

Office. (Wa ECLA srima?
‘
4 - Bureau fh
Ql - Liaison, Secti

gIONROV SUVIR
X

(1 - Chicag
1 - Madrid™¢oat ya cae
1 - Paris ed
“LPK: mas;

(6) 4 mo 55 2 y cu

DocId:32308633 Page 2



Paris 92-14
“
| CONFIDENTIAL |

Assistant Legat KEENAN vaguely recollects receiving !
a telephone call at the Office of the Legat Madrid from JAVIER '
OCANA on Saturday, 11/25/61, in captioned matter. Inasmuch j
as KEENAN cannot recall furnishing the above telephone number
to any other sources of the Madrid Office during instant A
investigation, he is of the opinion that the telephofe call
of 12/22/61 probably emanated either directly or 3,

through OCANA. &)(Aw

It is pointed out that OCANA made e Yorable :
impression, furnished detailed information r i
subject's activities during the period of higsWstay in Madrid jae
in late November 1961, and gave every indication of being sa
a reliable, professional and capable Spanish officer. wit

pau ar

; eae

i

Bu enue

4
{
1h
;

| pocra: 32308633 Page 3
