JFK Assassination System,
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90010-10095
RECORD SERIES: DL
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 100-9734-731
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: — FAIN
TO: DL
TITLE:
DATE: 02/24/1961
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
AMERICAN G.I. FORUM
BETTY J. MANN
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS; — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/16/1997
OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: = MEMO

v9
DocId:32323091 Page 1

32



OF 10
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT !
MEMORANDUM

TO : SAC, DALLAS (100-8561) DATE: 2/24/61
FROM : SA JOHN W. FAIN fe ra
5 UNCLASSIFIED
SUBJECT: BETTY J. MANN HEREIN, SN oy
BETTY WER or LEHOUSE
(rut) F
On 2/1/61 SA JOHN W. FAIN received by mail a typewritten

report dated 1/29/61 from DI-20-S, This report has been
serialized as 134-724-298, and. centains the following information:

A meeting of the CP group of Ft. Worth, Texas, was held
on 1/29/61 at 8:06 PM., at 1423 Clinton Street, Ft. Worth, Texas,
attended by the following members of the party group:

BETTY MANN

HAROLD MANN
EARLENE MARTIN
COLUMBUS MARTIN
McKINNEY FRETWELL
PHIL BARKER
EVERETT HUFFMAN

The discussion at this meeting was based upon the forth-
coming Senatorial race and how the group could be instrumental in
aiding GONZALEZ in his campaign for U. S. Senator,

PHIL BARKER told the group he had received a telephone
call from GILBERT GARCIA of the G.I, Forum; that GARCIA had told

100-9734 (G,I, FORUM)
100-10433 (C. STANSBURY)

FEED + tbo.
134-47 (M. CARTER) fer 2nid

- 100-8561 1 - 100-671-4 (MEMBERSHIP)

- 134-72A-298A (rpts Dl-20-S)1 - 100-671-5 (ORG) i
- 100-8149 (H. MANN) 1. 100-671-8 (POL, ACTS) '
- 100-10174. (CJ MARTIN) ak jeg |
- 100-10176 (E, MARTIN) 14 io (
= 100-8254 (D, FRETWELL) eed 100- an3a4 |

- 100-10275 (J. BARKER)

- 100-9701 (E. HUFFMAN) | SEALITE CT

SESSEEESSEEEasiessreansnanioea

DocId:32323091 Page 2


DL 100-8561

PHIL there would be an organizational mesting of the workers for
GONZALEZ held on 1/30/61 at the Mexican Youth Center on North
Commerce Street, Ft. Worth, at 8:00 PM,

HAROLD MANN suggested that all of the men of the group go
to this meeting but that each ons is to go in the meéting along
and not in or as a membér of a group. BAROLD said that GARCIA was
informed sometime ago by MARGARET CARTER of thé Democratic Organi-
fing Committee (DOC), that he, MANN, was a. Communist and that since
then GARCIA bas shunned MANN. HAHOLD also said that hé wéuld not
like for the entire group to be bammed just because the geoup was
with him.

HAROLD MANN told EARLENE MARTIN to remain at home and
write poll tax receipts and encourage people to vote for GONZALEZ;
that the men would go to the meeting and see if the party group
could be instrumental in the GONZALEZ campaign.

: BETTY MANN was a little undecided as to. whether she would
go the meeting but later decided to accompany HAROLD MANN, but she
and HAROLD would arrive about ten minutes after the meeting started,

The kter part of the meeting was devoted to discussing
the possibilities of CAROLYN. STANBURY's becoming a member of the
group.

PHIL BARKER told the group that CAROLYN STANSBURY had
asked him if she could come back to one of the group meetings but
PHIL said that he has to discuss Marx's theory more and make sure
that she is ready, PHIL said that he is very doubtful that
CAROLYN STANSBURY will make a good Communist but he said he never
turns down an opportunity to try to recruit someone into the CP
group. BARKER said that CAROLYN STANSBURY has a friend by the
name of NAOMI who wants to come to a meeting with CAROLYN but that
she will definitely be refused until he can learn more about her.
PHIL said CAROLYN is now attending Arlington State College,

(DL-16-S has also reported the above CP meeting of 1/29/61.)

DocId:32323091 Page 3

