# docid-32328440

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90075-10012

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-3189-52

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

09/24/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LEONARD PATRICK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32328440

Page

10

---

## Page 2

(-0=263 (Re 1-59)

FEDERA BUREAU OF INV ¿STIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

DATE

9/24/63

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

7/20 - 9/17/63

REPORT MADE BY

JAMES W. GERBLICK

CHARACTER OF CASE

LEONARD

PATRICK, aka

TYPED BY

csm

BUrs

REFERENCE:

Report of SA JAMES W. GERBLICK dated 7/31/63,

at Chicago.

COPIES MADE Of Seil

- P-

ENCLOSURES

Patrich

ASCA RA 2/13/28 REQUEST.

TO BUREAU

(SDE BUFILE #62-117290);

Two (2) copies of letterhead memorandum of

characterization of informants used in this report.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Chicago 6538-C-TE advised in July, 1963, that

BERT ARIAS is dissatisfied with his employment at LENNY

I PATRICK'5 New Lawndale Restaurant and has nothing but

contempt for the "outfit." In his present frame of mind,

he might be induced to discuss PATRICK's bookmaking activities.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

3189 - 52

- Bureau

(92-3189) (Ene: 2)

1

- USA, Chicago

2

- Chicago (92-374)

REC- 20

SEP 25 1963

92-

DIA ZIOU

BECSINED

2E6 30

1120Em:

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

Dest

10•2-2013

LO NOTATIONS

AGENCY--

REQUEST RECD..-

166

DATE FWD.

HOW FWD.

BY.

53 0CT 9

1953

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

10-76324-1

DocId: 32328440 Page 2

shapers

---

## Page 3

CG 92-374

It should be noted that ARIAS was one of the individuals

arrested by the Organized Crime

Division, Chicago Police

Department, on April 2, 1963, at the New

for operating a wire room.

Lawndale Restaurant,

The telephone company records, mentioned in

this report, were furnished by Miss HAZEL WEIR, Security

Department, Illinois Bell Telephone Company.

LEADS

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO,

ILLINOIS. 1. Interview BERT ARIAS

to determine his attitude towards cooperating with the .

FBI concerning the activities of LEONARD PATRICK.

2.

Will recontact LORIN SPAK to determine the

identity of the individual to whom SHARON PATRICK is en-

gaged.

3. Will determine the subscribers to the tele-

phone numbers set forth in this report as having been

called from PATRICK's residence.

4.

Will continue to follow PATRICK's activities

through informants and sources.

INFORMANTS

Chicago T-1 is Chicago 6538-C-TE contacted by

SA AUGUST C. KEMPFF .

Chicago T-2, ROBERT JOSEPH MC DONNELL, PCI,

was contacted by SA GEORGE W.

STEPHAN.

_ Вж -

COVER PAGE

deR12-1001s

DocId: 32328440

Page 3

---

