# docid-32309112

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10297-10239

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-866

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/12/1962

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32309112

Page 1

229

---

## Page 2

DEFERRED 9-12-62

6-32

+ VESTIGATIO:

NT OF JUSTICE

NS SECTIO!

1962

TELETYPE

PM ALL INT

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31711

AINED

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 182-3491 1PDATEY/20/R4

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA., AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

YOU WERE ADVISED OF THE FACT THAT PCI GEORGE VYDRA INFORMED

Mr.

inar

• Callahan

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. DeLoac

Mr. Evan

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen.

Mr. Sulliva.

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

‹ Miss Holmas...

Miss Gandy.-

RECENTLY OF THE FACT THAT JANE. DARWIN, SONGSTRESS, IS BEING SPONS

BY INFORMANT AND MUST GO THROUGH GIANCANA

AND CHARLES ENGLISH IN

ORDER FOR HER TO BECOME A SUCCESS. U

CG SIX FIVE ONE TWO DASH C TE ADVISED THAT HE LEARNED OF THE FACT

AS FURTHER CORREPCRITEN OF MUTORGITON IRAST EY UNGRA,

THAT CHARLES AND SAM ENGLISH MET WITH AN INDIVIDUAL NAMED GEORGE AND

AT THE FIFTH JACK CLUB, CHICAGO,

AT WHICH TIME SHE WAS GIVEN A TRY OUT FAND

A COLORED SINGER VAMED ANE DARUSON O CURASIN RECORDS. SHE IS

PARK, ILLINOIS, AS A CO DASH ATTRSTORE,

- ARMED

RAND

END AND HOLD

131962

12 SEP 17 1962

2100

/ DocId: 32309112

Page 2

---

