# docid-32277012

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/1/201

AGENCY :

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10131-10127

RECORD SERIES :

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 009978

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: ALLEN, MARK

TO:

TITLE :

DATE: 07/17/1978

PAGES:

16

SUBJECTS :

ALLEN, MARK

RUBY, JACK; ACTIVITIES OF NOV. 22-24, 1963

MEANS, WILLIAM MARTINER

DOCUMENT TYPE: OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Open in Full

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST RE VIEW :

12/03/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS : W/ report attached. Box 184.

v9.1

DocId: 32277012

Page

---

## Page 2

KENNEDY

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

009978

DATE 7/12/28 TIME 1UAM

I.

Identifying Information:

Name_

Address

mark Allen

lype of Contact:

Telephone_

Telephone

Person

I..

Summary of Contact:

mark Allen gave me the following materia!.

le Jack Ruby

III..

Reconmended Follow-up (if any) :

ipcorpurate into into teleanune project

DocId: 32277012 Page 2

Restie Wiselman

---

## Page 3

Allen)

17.176

Phone Calls fron Phoenix to: Dallas on 11/22/63

On November 22, 1963, Jack Eurich, owner of the Hi-Liter Bar in Phoenix,

Arizona reported that a man had placed a call from a pay phone in his estab-

lishment to a "rifle range in Dallas"

had never seen the man before, but. he was able to give a description of the

man's physical appearance, clothing, and automobile he drove.

The F.B.I. checked the records of that phone and found four calls to Dallas

had been

made that day.

Three of the calls were made person to person to

Jacqueline Kennedy at Parkland Hospital. Strangely enough, phone records show

that two of the calls, both of them not completed because

the line was busy,

were placed minutes before the assassination at 12:14 and 12:20pm CST. The

other call to Parkland, wnich was completed, was placed at 12:37 CST. The caller,

whose name is deieted from the F.B.I. report, was then connected to a "security

officer.' CD 1107, pg. 742)

On 11/28/63, the f.B.I. interviewed a William Mortimer Means, who fit Eurich!s

description well. Means was an unemployed painter who claimed to have come to

Phoenix because of his emphysema. Means admitted calling Parkland Hospital

from the Hi-Liter Bar on 11/22, but his explanation was inadequate. He claimed

that after hearing of the President's shooting he became so upset he decided

to call the hospital in Dallas to see,if it were true. Means denied asking for

Jacqueline Kennedy.

Means does not appear to have been confronted with the phone company records

showing that two phone calls to Parkland were attempted before he could have

possibly heard about the assassination. It is of note that the Bureau's

report on this call, found in Ca 301, mentions only the completed 12:37 call.

A few more pages are found in CD 1107 on the call, but the document showing the

other two calls was not released until earlier this year.

The other call to Dallas from the Hi-Liter in Phoenix on 11/22 was to phone

number 368-0096.

The time of the call apparently was not recorded by the

operator and the identity of the

subscriber was not given in the report. Che

possible clue to who it might be, however, is found in the interview of

Means. The report relates:

"Means denied calling any other telephone number in Dallas on 11/22/63 and

said he does not know anyone

named VAL MAE STONE. He says the only Turf bar

he knows of is in Billings, Montana."

This is a rather intriguing paragraph. The 1963 Dallas City Directory lists

a Val Stone as the wife of John E. Stone, whose occupation is given there

as manger of Sol's Turf Bar. when a gambler named Sidney Seidband was arrested

in Oklahoma City in 1959,

the F.B.I. obtained a list of gambling acquaintances

from him in the Dallas area. The list included Jack ruby, Lewis McWillie,

who ran gambling operations at the Tropicana

in Havana, and Johnnie Eli

Stone

and Sal Solomon, co-owners of the Turf bar. (See CE 1693) At the time of

the assassination, Seidband resided in Phoenix.

Jack Ruby is known to nave visited the Turf bar on

11/23/63. It islalso quite

likely that Ruby was at Parkland Hospital minutes after the assassination, given

the testimony of Dallas reporter Seth kantor.

Unfortunately the Library of Congress is missing the 1958-63 Dallas pnonel

books. From looking at the City directories and a 1964;

the done appear

the Stones had an unlisted number. I was, however, able to ascertain that they lived

in the "Emerson" exchange area (EM) (36) which was

where the call was placed i

However, it should be noted that if the number did belong to the stones, they

must have changed it immediately after the assassination. The May, 1964 Dallas

phone directory lists the mystery number to a Vernon GiSchimmel. McElvaney Hall,

SMU.

Any researcher with further information bearing on this memo is encouraged to.

contact me. References: CD 1107, pg.

742-3; CD 301, PgS. 178-85; CE 1693:

Doc

---

## Page 4

V

FD-Big (Rer. 1-25-B0)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGNTION

Date

December 2, 1963

WILLIAM MORTIER MEANS, 3940 North 33ed Avenue,

advised that he came to Fhoenis;

Arizona de October 8 or 9,

1963,

He said that prior to that he had beer living in

Billings, Montana

from 1956 to September, 1953; at phich

time, he made a trip to Si. Paul, Minnesota where he stayed

only about a month, and then came to Phoenix beczuse the

Re stated that he first

resided in Phoenix at the Sun Valley Motel on East Van

Buren Street for about one wees, and then residsd at

• 410 Bast Pierce Street for one

month, after which he noved

to his present essidence.

MEANS advised that he had never been to Dallas,

Texas in his life and the only peraos he knous ibere 15 a

Doctor MILLE.

MEANS explainad that in about 1961 at

B1llings he contracted enphysema, and in 1061 he read an

article in the Reader's Digest about a rezearch center at

the University of Texas (Dallas) that was doing work in

connection with emphysem.

He stated that as a result of

this article, be wrote

to a Dr. MILLsh there for information

concerning the disease.

MEANS advised his doctors in Billings were FRANK

HOaS and a Dr. GIBBS, who sere associates and mere located

at the Billings Clinic.

He said Dr. MOHS recommended that

he, MEANS, come to Phoents, Arizona. He stated he bas is

doctor in Phoenix as yet.

MEANS stated that he has a Social Security

disability persion, aud he displayed a Certificate oi

Social

Insurance Aard from the Department of Health,

Education and Melfire. Seclal Securlty Division, reflecting

he suffers from emphysema; and effective May 8, 1963, he

was awarded $117.00 monthly.

MEANS stated he

is unemployed

due to his physical condition.

MEANS advised that on the morning of November 22,

1963, he stopped to visit a friend, GLENY CLYAIT, a contractor

who operates under the name of Wiico Construction Company at

offices on North 12th Street about three blocks south of

Camelback Road.

He said CLYATT, who resides at 1903 East

Whitton, was not in his office and neither was "CHUCK" who

works there.

MEANS said ha then rent up 12th Street a block

11/28/63

On

_ 01

Phoenix, Arizona

18?

File #

PX 89-42

SA ERNEST J. VAN LOON/big

by

- Dale dictatod

11/29/63

This document contains nalther recommendations noe conclusions of the FBl. It le the property of the Fal and la looney

vour adency: 1l and lis contents are not lo be distributed outalde your agency.

DocId: 32277012 Page 4

---

## Page 5

pane sexe

PX 89-42

EJVL/btg

or a block and a hall to ≥ bar.

He said he did

not recall the

name of the bar, but believed it was

"Hi" something,

de said

the bar was on the west side of 12th Street and about one block

south of Canelback Road.

MEANS advised that he west in this bar to get a

package of cigarettes and that he had a beer.

He said that

while he was in the bar, some varan

cang in

the -

bartender that she beard on the radit that sageeze

pas sact

or dead.

MEANS said he did

not hear ano abe

balalag about

and asked the bartender the

told hin that it was Iresideat

KENNEDY.

MRANS said this "hi, hin hard, right between the eyes".

He said he had always liked Iresiient Kanvalt and just could

not believe what he

had beard.

Hẹ Baid be 50÷

excited and

decided to call Dallas to find out whether it ras true or not.

He said he placed a call thrcugh the Phoedia operator and had

her connect him with the Dallas operasse won ne asked to

connect him with the hospital to which Presidect RENNuDY had

bsen taken.

WEANS said his only purpose in doing this was

to verify

the report and isnied that ne askel ior Mrs. KENNEDY.

MEANS said ha talad to a roman at the boapital, the he balieved

was probably the telsphose operator tasre, und this opsrator

would not connect bin vita argone else.

MEANS Baid de asked

her for one of the guardo, but pas dold there ras so one

around. He said he

believes that he asked the operator

whether or not 1t sas true that Prsaident KaNvaD bad been

shot, but he 1s sure that the did sot verify this for him.

MEANS stated that he had been drinking "some" before

this happened, and after he made the above dentioned call, he

thought to ilmself that he had been "a danned fool".

He said,

•"I no doubt overstepped myself." MEANS said that if he had

not been drinking, he is sure he sould not have made the call.

He explained that

the reported shosting of the President was

very upsetting to hin in his condition, and his only intention

was to verify the report.

MEANS advised that he had made guly one call to

Dallas, Texas (that 1s, he called only one weber there.,

but he miglit have gotten busy line.

Re said he thinks

183

mitrate

301

DocId: 32277012 Page 5

---

## Page 6

3

•PX 89-42

EJVL/btg

he remembers the operator calling back one time sayiug she

could not get through to the hospital. MEANS said he did

not stay long at the bar after making

the call to the Dallas

hospital.

LEANS denied that he asked the bartender at the

bar to turn the television set on, and said he was almost

sure it was not on while he was in the bar.

MEANS advised that ha certainly bad no ill feelings

concerning presideni LaNNEDY ani u1d Iot want to cause asy

trouble.

He sald be had a great jeal of sespect is President

KENNEDY. He stated he believed Fresident KENNEDY bed advanced

many modern and upright ideas sod ranted the best for everybody.

He said he admired Prdsident KNEDY's speeches and bolieved

that President KENNEDY had done a lit of good for the country.

MEANS denied that he Kney LEE HARYLY OSWALD Or

JACK RUBENSTEIN, aka JACK RUBY; and seid he nevss bsard of

these people before they were in the ders.

MEANS denied calling any other telephone number in

Dallas on Novenber 22, 1963, and said be does not know anyone

namEd VAL HAE SIONE.

He said the ouly lurf Bar that he knows

of is in Billings, Mortara:

The folloring description was obtained through

observation and interrogation:

Name

Age

Date of Birth

Place of Birth

Height

Weight

Eyes

Hair

Former Occupation

Social Security No.

Scar

Parents

HILLIAN MORTIMER MEANS

57

May 9, 1906

Chatfield, Minresota

5 ' 11"'

172

BLUE

Iron gray

Painter and decorator

4 inch diagonal scar, outside

of right arm about 2

inches

above wrist

JOHN and JESSIE (FREEMAN) MEANS,

both deceased

184

10243

301

DocId:32277012 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CD1557

FD-302 (R08.1-25-80)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIG. HION

Date -

_AsTil 9, 1954

JACK ERRIT, orsor of the MoLltar Esr, 17L2 North

12th Street,

Phoenis, Arizong, day tolerbone sunber 279-3079,

furnished the foliozing ibiormation

At ab0u: 11:35 2..,

on boventer 22. 1903;

came into

the bar

21?d

Asked

that the sclerisior sei

turned

0n.

EURICH tursed on the television sei sad alaost lostantly

the news of the shooting of President KIBEDY cocursed.

drinking thres boroles i FaleSaft B002 Seve

This nan plated a Zelonacce onix 4os 74f1- Psoge 12 221125,

Texas.

The nan first placed a leispboss sell saich xas cot

completed.

The lins distacie aporator ustlad Lack dad bold

BURICH that shere i 1ld be 1 1012y 10 no call Walce tie

long: distance operator referrea

tag the

"sall to the rifle

range is Dallis."

BURICS staret

thee the mad sonpleted the

call befora de lold tre bar because de: WeRE, gire the man

the change io pay for ina vali.

FURICH described No men as zoise, approximately

60 to 65 years of age, 5? 1Pil"

': 185 B: 200 prada, grey

hair, a5d quite red lace?.

Ade 29r Talkes sierly,

very sIOn,

and,

Is Fire s

sweater over i yelley shiro and jetton or too kuck farts which

were protsy dirty.

EURICH Said shat Vh2s

12013110a1 m53 1617155 an

old Buick, Irobabi

• *1952 or 1953 Roio,, tink was & faded

light green sojor, and dotal lad descara Lidonas platas.

EURiCH bad sever seen this individual before.

742

On ..12/22/63

BY SA ROY N. REGER

DocId:32277012 Page 7

Phoenix: Ax12023

Filo #

- Date dictatad

PX 69-42

1/6/54

---

## Page 8

+0-I02 (904-1-25-83

Dato

April 9, 1964

The records of the

artross, cortained the following

inforcation:

Three telephore calis sere mode on November 22,

1963, frOn IlLi

telephone at olderls lith Street,

Ihcezix, Arizona,

to telephone cuncer n31-5150 in Dalles, Texas.

The first

call was made a lal f

the secord at 12:20 p.m.;

and the thir!

nie lice was busy on the first

two calls.

carte kiss

"all man miches indicates that the

money Was

tit: ina sppeared in the line.

It

mas not store lather tie 200a7 was ebllected or rejuried

tothe persoi marita wre is?l.

¡acetic) Isde a person to person

call to

After the line was busy trice,

ras cornerted to

"a security officer."

Teleptore zunber £31-5050 ia Dallas is listed to

-ce.

the Parklaed bosite, Pillas, Texas.

In aúdiblon, artber call was made fron telephone

number 279-3079 ¿ DiliE, Texas, Telephone number 368-0096.

The time this call mos hide is cot irdicated.

The abore iatormatios can orly be made public.

in the proper litercine upos the issuance of a subroena

duces

tecun third muld be directed to

Phoenix, Arizona.

1':

On _

11/22/63

Phocaly. Arizona

Filo #.

PX 89-42

• 1/8/61

SA ROY 17. ROGER

dsn

Doro dictored.

Thee darumon contulne nolther pacormienfullons not concluatone of tha FDI. ll la tha property of the fBl and le loured l

DocId: 32277012 Page B

---

## Page 9

Other Individuals and Orgoilizatious

Involved of Interrieved

WXB: VI

DL 39-43

Willian Mortimer Heaas, also

known as 3111 deans

On November 22,

1963,

at approzimately 12:37 p.w., CST,

& telephone call was received at Parkland Hospital from Phoenix,

Arizona,

wherein the caller asked to cals to JAcQuaLINg kennadi,

wife of

forner President JOHN FITZBERALD BANNEDY. IRANS did not

talk to Mrs. KENNEDY.

178

DocId: 32277012 Page 9

---

## Page 10

MEMORANDUM TO: Ms. Leslie Wizelman

MEMORANDUM FROM: Mark A. Allen

SUBJECT: Possible Ruby link to gun-running activity four days.

prior to the assassination

DATE: July 17. 1978

Attached is a memorandum concerning certain material which I

provided you in early June of this year which suggested a possible

link between Jack Ruby and certain gun-running activity occuring

four days prior to the assassination. If there is any way in which

I can assist your research efforts in this matter please feel free

to contact me at my office

number, 673-5199.

ipad.

DocId:32277012

Page

10

---

## Page 11

In the

United States Court of Appeals

FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT

No. 22443

Lawrence Reginald Miller,

Appellant,

United States of America,

Appellee.

Appeal from the United States District Court

for the Northern District of Texas

BRIEF FOR APPELLANT

STATEMENT

The Appellant-Defendant, Lawrence Reginald Miller, was convicted

of violations of one count of Title 18, United States Codes, Sec. 641, and

three counts of Title 26 United States Codes, Sec. 5851 and 6851 on the

10th day of February, 1964, (R. 15-18, 25-26, 139) and was sentenced on

February 12, 1964 for imprisonment for a term of four years on all counts

generally. (R. 142) The Defendant, although advised of his rights to appeal,.

was not advised that such appeal must be perfected within ten days after

DocId: 32277012 Page 11

---

## Page 12

, ix 7005

judgment of conviction in accordance with Federal Rules of Criminal

Procedure 37(a)(2). The Court below held under the rule of this circuit

as stated in Boruff.v. United States, 310 F. 2d 918 (5th Cir., 1962) that

the ten day period within which he was required to file his notice of appeal

did not commence to run until he was actually notified that he must perfect

his appeal within ten days and of his right to have counsel to assist him.

(Order of March 25, 1965, Supplemental Transcript pp. 1-5).

Subsequent to his conviction the defendant filed a motion under

28 USC Sec. 2255. At this hearing it was determined that the defendant

had not been advised on his right to appeal. The district court denied

relief under Sec. 2255. In the event the direct appeal from the criminal

action is considered untimely the defendant gave notice of appeal from the

civil Sec. 2255 suit. See paragraph 6 of Notice of Appéal:

'By its Order dated March 25, 1965, which is hereby

incorporated by reference as part of this Notice of Appeal, this

Court authorized the filing of this Notice of Appeal. In the event

this appeal is deemed untimely, defendant wishes this Notice of

Appeal to be considered as a notice of appeal from the order

dated March 25, 1965, in CA-3-637, on the defendant's 28 U.S. C.

2255 application. "

This Notice of Appeal was filed on March 29, 1965. The same issue would

be involved in the Sec. 2255 appeal, and the record in the criminal appeal

is fully adequate to Sec. 2255 appeal.

On November 13, 1963, ten military weapons /construng of automatic

rifles

and machine guns were taken from the Terrell National Guard Armory.

72V

- 2

DocId:32277012 Page 12

---

## Page 13

R. 35-39, 41, 81. The weapons were

the property of the United States

and had been loaned to the National Guard for training purposes. (R. 32).

On the evening of November 18, 1963, the Defendant Miller was observed

to be a passenger in a Thunderbird automobile that pulled along side a

late model Dodge Sedan. (R. 75-76). What appeared to be objects similar,

to the weapons subsequently determined to be the weapons taken from the

National Guard Armory were transferred from the Dodge automobile to

Thunderbird. (R. 76-78). The FBLagent testified that he did not and does not

know who was driving the Dodge automobile and that no effort was made after

the observation of the transier to secure the arrest of the driver of the Dodge

Sedan. (R. 88-91). While the FBI and Dallas detectives were keeping the

Defendant under surveilance, a Dallas police cai was notified by radio to

arrest the Defendant. (R. 10, 6D-61). No arrest warrant had been issued for

the Driendant nor the river of the Thunderbird car in which he was riding nor,

of course, had any ceaich warrant both iscued to search the Thunderbird

automobile. The police officer testified that they intended to follow the

car in which Defendant was riding until a iraffic violation had orcurred at

which point they would arrest di Dofpadani And Deurch the automobile. (R. 60-61).

that the car had juppid mendl touch th thinGed Wahte whirl precipitated

a chase ted ended wes code arty more the irontadt Was riding struck, a

tice whea aren ping io negodacconCiddl, Dafondant and driver of

Doold: 32277012 Page 13.

3.:

---

