AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
‘PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :

_ DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

FBI
124-10199-10417

HQ

87-66742-242

Document Information

FBI
SAC, CG
DIRECTOR, FBI

02/12/1964

3

PAL, ATTORNEY, FINANCES.

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

_ 1/16/1998

INDEFINITE

INC LHM

v9.1
Docld:32288641 Page 1



FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

+ he G O

FBI

Date: 2/12/64

(Type in plain text or code)
AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (87-66742) \
OM : SAC, CHICAGO (87-19740)

“SUBJECT: CHARLES WILLIAM BRAY; /
FELIX ANTHONY ALDERISIO, Lo

fo Mebh un; sean - meronrxol” CALL NFOHATION CONTAIM

(ACCOUNTING AND baa ene g TECLASSIFIED

OO: MIAMI GATE BUA BY.S
Enclosed to the Bureau and Miami are four copies
each of a letterhead memorandum (LHM) setting forth
information furnished by TOM ACKERMAN, who is now a
symbol informant of the Chicago Division, and whose back- t
ground is set forth in Bureau File 137-10109; and
from CG 6588-C-TE,

a
7 [~: " It is called to the Bureau and Miami's attention t
“ar that the information furnished by CG 6588-C-TE is not to bey, H
7 divulged to any unauthorized person inasmuch as ALDERISIO
has only furnished this information to this informant and
should the same get back to ALDERISIO, this informant would!
be killed.

It is also called to the attention of the
Bureau and Miami' that the information furnished by : {
TOM ACKERMAN should not be divulged to any unauthorized {
individual because ACKERMAN, at the present time, is
employed indirectly by IRVIN WEINER, who is a clase

. associate of ALDERISIO. mtd REC. BVI-E Lo Ree 2 Abd |

Miami should hand carry the attached LHM to
Departmental Attorney PELOQUIN in accordance to Bureau
instructions,

ALDERISIQ AND TRAFFICANTE SHOULD BE CONSIDERED

ccs cee SS

S
1

z
4
On
2

e

\

1 = Chicago‘, S., ‘ P y
ugh CAH: Say Criminal Dj ; "
i enn hae Ear Seno, \Y : gt ee “ 0 \
A ®& Spegie! Aveattontbars® ts. Walter Tabet 71S ab
4g PM ts :
Reese perererttieueersst™eie ae ee a g Room 2509 afer. Me oes 2 SALA ae

: 2 = Miami (Encls O_o 14 FEB nals |

Docld:32288641 Page 2
