JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10222-10475

HQ

166-925-9, 10, 11, 12”

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATU

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1
Docld:32298699 Page 1

Document Information

FBI
SAC, NK
DIRECTOR, FBI

07/01/1964
7

APR, ASSOC, SABATO, MATTY, OPERATE, CARD GAME,
PLANNING RAID, TE, ASSOC, GENOVESE, VITO, FEDERAL

PENITENTIARY

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

05/12/1998

INDEFINITE

INC RGM, NOTE, A/T, MEMO


r

TO

\prom

3)

SUBJECT:

5S JUL 13 1365

DocId: 32298699. Page 2

‘OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 so1o08

MAY tots EDITION. ( ;
(Gan cre REG. NO. 27 y
UNITED STATES cafe near é

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (166-925) DATE: —-7/2/65
SAC, NEWARK (166-208) _
i
THOMAS EBOLI, aka, ET AL
ITAR~GAMBLING

RE: Newark letter dated 6/8/65
0-1 dated 6/29/65

\ ° The information in the Newark file concerning cap=
tioned matter has been furnished by Criminal Informants and
Highly Confidential Sources,

. Newark has conducted no open investigation in this
case, since there has been no indication of violation of
Federal Gambling Statutes. Further reason for no investigation
is that New Jersey State Police contemplates a raid of the game
as soon as their investigation justifies that action.

Two Newark Informants (NK 2381-C-TE and NK 2181-C)
have attended this game in the past and efforts. are being made
to have one of these sources visit the game again in order
to assist the New sore? State Police in obtaining a search
warrant,

. . _. In view of no apparent Federal violation and the
fact that information available precludes submission of an
intelligent report in the 166 classification, biaiaed case is
being placéd in a closed status,

This matter will be re-opened as a 162 =~ IGA class=
ification and a report will be submitted by 7/16/65/

day

4
@- Bureau on ma
ac gt ECP
BDW:hds a Motes nn

(4)

3]



bila auES GER SaE - aEeREeNCEe!
6. {Rev $-22-64): é : : r)

: PEER EE : FBI
Date: - 6/8/65

Transmit the following in
: Ho . (Type in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL:

(Priority)

pei --------=--2---

DIRECTOR, FBI (166-925)

sac, NEWARK (166-208)

THOMAS ws Gor, aka.
etal
“UTAR - GAMBLING

Re Newark radiogram, 4/29/65.
3 "This matter has beer. discussed with Major FRANK
HALLEY, Deputy Superintendent, New Jersey State Police, .
‘on several occasions since date. of referenced communication...
HALLEY stated that his men have noticed little.or no :
activity in the vicinity of the game in recent weeks.:: He
stated that the raid in East Newark, N.J., during April,
may have “caused the operators of ‘the game to discontinue
temporarily or at least to increase security precautions.
HALLEY stated that he plans to} have his men spot-check. -
the. location, on.a periodic basis: for any pertinent activity.

: Newark plans to have NK 2381-C verify the
continued. operation of the game and also to attend. the-
gama in order to obtain details of the physical. adit
of the cbullding. / 7

~ Informant is. presently ill,. but is expected to
handle above assignment in the near future. — :

inne The Bureau wand be kept advised. of aeecieaauicns
i developments. : :

oa. aeaee

ae WO 16 be PE -
1-New. York (166-512) ee

30Newark . aaa; : a. UN 9 196§

Sent cE a =

“ey ion Spee

Docid:32298694 Page 3 ..

nt -in Charge


bd. ; r ae 2 cals

bree fer

DECODED COPY t=

liven

Tovel

OAIRGRAM "3 CABLEGRAM | xxRADIO COTELETYPE "=

TP DIRECTOR AND NEW YORK
NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON-ENCODED
FROM NEWARK 291550

Interstate T
THOMAS EBOL!, AKA., ET AL. ITARAGAMBLING.

fee -92S -F pel
| RE: NEWARK LETTER JULY 4, 196k.
cy ON APRIL 21 LAST, MAJOR FRANK HALLEY, DEPUTY eel

NUSTATE POLICE, ADVISED THAT HE HAS TWO UNDERCOVER MEN
ASSIGNED TO AN INVESTIGATION OF INSTANT MATTER. HALLEY
‘STATED THAT HE HAS BEEN AWARE OF THE EXISTENCE OF THIS GAME
FOR SEVERAL MONTHS, BUT THUS FAR HIS MEN HAVE BEEN UNABLE TO
GAIN ADMISSION TO THE GAME IN ORDER TO OBTAIN THE EVIDENCE
NECESSARY FOR A RADD.
DURING THE EVENINGS OF APRIL 25 AND 26 LAST, NEWARK 2381 ¢
PE ATTENDED THE GAME AND ESTIMATED THAT APPROXIMATELY 70 PLAYERS
WERE. PRESENT.
-ON APRIL 29 INSTANT, HALLEY WAS ADVISED THAT AN
INFORMANT OF THIS OFFICE WAS IN RECENT ATTENDANCE AT THE
GAME AND THAT AN AGENT OF THIS OFFICE WOULD BE WILLING
TO FURNISH AN AFFIDAVIT TO THE EFFECT THAT AN FBI INFORMANT HAS
OBSERVED A CRAP GAME IN PROGRESS AT THE PERTINENT LOCATION
+ |IN UNION CITY, Nude
* HALLEY STATED THAT HE WILL DISCUSS THIS MATTER WITH
ASSISTANT NJ ATTORNEY GENERAL EVAN W. JAHOS, THIS DATE, AND
ADVISE THIS OFFICE AS TO THES POSSIBILITY OF A RA@D ON THE GAME

\,

2 MCS 76ZiZE—

4h Peer re eee Oy May 7 1965

SS MAY 17196 ee eee

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably
paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau’s cryptographic systems.

ocld:32298699 Page 4



crnonas anno gs ae i Atty
NITED, STATES GOVEM(MENT : pce ar

“Memorandum - os

/Drmscron, FBI “Gi66+025),. “pare, 7/1/64
sac, NEWARK (166-208), © : a

OD pane ke oo .
‘gHoMAS EBOLI; ‘aka. ; ET AL ° : pon SS :
CITAR--"GAMBLING: ' oe pean ceeee:

: On 4/15/64," Detective Captain GEORGE: ROMANO, 1
Union City, New Jersey, Police Department, advised SA: ‘JAMES oi
“Fi: SNIDER, that’ MATTY \SABATO has operated a card game at 606.
Paterson -Plank Road, Union City, New Jersey, for several 7
‘| "years, _SABATO's olieatelé have been businessien from the.

EEE Seer inmediate area, 7

mare! ROMANO | ‘Statea that he ‘has received a number of .

: eae complaints concerning SABATO's’ ‘game and attempted to’catch :

the game in operation, . However, there are four doors to - -..

ne 7 ‘enter before reaching the game and by that time the players
oh “are either. sitting: around watebhing TV or playing pinochle,

: ROMANO further stated that his investigation has |
disclosed: no indication of anyone | from out of state, acaa
participating in SABATO'S ‘game,

Peer Ape? i diet

On 4/24/64, cry smmaro was interviewéd at, his
peaiaenes, 519 Eighth Street. Union City,..New Jersey, by
SAs FRANK H, DONNELLY and JAMES F, SNIDER in connection with
another investigation. _SABATO stated he is President and
e ,only officer of the Sportsman Club,.Inc,, 606 Paterson Plank .
“Road, Union City, N.J._ He said that. he operates card games_
‘at this.club on Tuesday,. Friday, and Saturday, where seven
7 card. stud poker. ‘is played, - He never shoots dice and only —
+ individuals ‘known to him are admitted to the game.’ All’ players!
are from the Union City and Jersey City area, SABATO. ddvised
that he was aware of: the FBI's: jurisdiction in. these matters.

; i. eee SABATO is presently under development as a Pci: ‘of

aa Newark,” Swe a REaraGEEeS z :

Tae _ On ‘5/a6/e4, Detective Captain GEORGE ROMANO; Union =
- City, New Jersey, Police Department, advised SA ‘JOHN J.

“  @REAMER, JR. that his men:have been to the Sportsman Club on.
\ several “occasions put have been: unable to catch anyone

SS pet ns en oa wee /66-Z: Ze = 9,

1 - 92-5962. (THOMAS EBOLI)
.3 = New York an 2 JUL. 6 1964
| 1 s=-92-1569. (THOMAS. EBOLI) yy ch

ESMREE ao (roma poll a : fae a ;

- SIC/jtm -% °
298¢%) Pagé 5

74d,

wl



NK 166-206

. NK 2181-C was contacted on 5/22/64 and NK 2228-C
on 6/26/64 and they were unable to furnish any information
that there is any interstate activity involved in the game
in the Sportsman Club.

Newark has conducted no active investigation of
this case since there is no evidence of an interstate violation
and since the Union City Police: Department and New Jersey State
Police have been conducting investigation inthis matter,

This case is peing considered closed until such time
as information is received indicating a Federal violation.
The matter is being followed in- the separate 4AR investigations
of Subjects. i

DocId: 32298699 Page 6
