# docid-32304367

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10285-10379

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 105-102448-65

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 07/01/1963

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT:

LB, EJERCITO CUBANO ANTI-COMUNISTA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

05/05/1999

STATUS

'Redact

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC NOTE

DocId: 32304367

Page.

1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF

TIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUL 11963

TELETYPE

URGENT

- 1-63

6-36 M PM

EST

SHR

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI AND SAC, NEW YORK

sir. Tolson

Ws. Belmontit

Vir. "Mohr

Mr.

Casper --

Mr. Callahan..

Mr. Conrad

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Mr. DeLoach.

Mir. Ey

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIOD

DATE 1-19-94BY SPl

Rosen.-

(JFK,

Mr. Sullivan

.V

Mr. Tavel.

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy-

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTÓN

FROM

SAC, MIAMI 12-323/

4P

Ware

OEJERCITO CUBANO ANTICOMUNISTA PAREN FRENTE ESCAMBRAY PAREN, PAREN

CUBAN ANTI COMMUNIST ARMY PAREN, PAREN ESCAMBRAY FRONT PAREN,

IS DASH CUBA, RA DASH CUBA.

manter

REMYAIRTELS JUNE TWENTY, TWENTYSEVEN, LAST.

FOR INTO NEW YORK, JESUS RAFAEL FRANCO CANEDO, FORMER MEMBER

CUBAN REBEL ARMY, WHOSE IDENTITY MUST BE STRICTLY PORTECTED, IS

IN CONTACT WITH MEMBERS ANTI CASTRO ORGANIZATIONS IN MIAMI, AND HAS

BEEN FURNISHING INFO RE ATTEMPTS ABOVE ORGANIZATION IO OBTAIN

EXPLOSIVES, ARMAMENT AND: OTHER EQUIPMENT: FROM A REPRE-

SENTATIVE OFSISANTOS TRAFFICANTE.

LUIS

PARALIA TELE CLOSE TO MANCH, HAS MONITE SERRE-

SENTATIVE OF TRAFFICANTE ON BEHALE OF EVELLO DUQUE AND HAS OFFERED

TWENTIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS TO OBTAIN ABOVE, EQUIPMENT. THE

REPRESENTATIVE OF TRAFFICANTE SAID HE COOLD OBTAIN THE EQUIPMENT

IN QUESTION, BUT FIRST WOULD HAVE TO CHECK ON DUQUE-S PLANS AND

HIS CLAIM THAT DUQUE RECEIVED MONEY FROM FORMER CUBAN

PRESIDENT,

REC - 38/1

END PAGE ONE

105-102448-

RELAYS.

3-6

151963A "

8

1963

"1421

NOpy ASCA 1/20p8

Dartore

105-103448

DocId:32304367

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE THREE

ABOVE FURNISHED TO CUSTOMS, MIAMI, WHO STATED THEY WERE

INTERESTED IN INVESTIGATING MATTER AND PARTICULARLY INTERESTED IN

BARTONE-S CONNECTION WITH THIS CASE.

TODAY FRANCO ADVISED BALBUENA HAD SPOKEN TO BARTONE WHO SAID

HE DOES NOT WANT TO DO BUSINESS IN MIAMI BECAUSE HE IS AFRAID OF

FEDERAL AUTHORITIES. HE MADE ARRANGEMENTS FOR BALBUENA AND HIS

BODYGUARD OF JUNE TWENTYFIVE TO FLY TO NEW YORK AROUND MIDNIGHT

TONIGHT•

• BODY GUARD AND BALBUENA WILL OBTAIN EQUIPMENT IN NEW YORK

AND BARTONE-S PEOPLE WILL SEND EQUIPMENT FROM NEW YORK TO SOME

ISLAND IN CARIBBEAN WHERE DUQUE AND HIS GROUP WILL PICK UP THE

EQUIPMENT•

BALBUENA WILL RETURN MIAMI IN THREE OR FOUR DAYS AND WILL

GIVE FURTHER DETAILS TO INFORMANT.

BARTONE-S BODYGUARD DESCRIBED AS W.M., AGE THIRTY, SIX FEET

TALL, ONE SIXTY POUNDS, BLACK WAVY HAIR, THIN BUILD, SPORTS

CLOTHES•

BALBUENA DESCRIBED AS W. Mo, AGE THRITYFIVE, SIX FEET TALL,

TWO FORTY POUNDS, HEAVY BUILD, BROWN HAIR AND EYES, LARGE STOMACH.

END PAGE THREE

DocId: 32304367 Page 3

---

