# docid-32265775

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/13/20

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10114-10401

NUMBERED FILES

015089

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: SHIELDS, CLEOLA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/12/1977

3

EYEWITNESS, SHIELDS, CLEOLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Open in Full

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/18/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

One copy of interview summary included. Box 293.

v9.1

NW 55923 Docid: 32265775

Page 1

---

## Page 2

015089

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

1.

Identifying Information:

Name

CLEOLA ShieLss

Aaaress 3317 PoiNTea Ara

City/State_

Dottos TexAs

Date of Birth

7-22-39

Social Security

JFK Act 6 (3)

2. Physical Description:

Height 5- 6/

Height 135

Ethnic Group BLAcK

Date //-/2:72

Place RESiDENCE

PiNE: 630-0387

M or s SaponateD

Spouse

Children

Color Eyes Bin Hair B/K

Special Characteristics

•. B

3.

Personal History:

a.

ib.

Present Employment:

HABENSLA/C

Address <

LEMAIN -

St.

Telephone

Criminal Record

1. Arrests

WONE

DIViSoN.

2.:

Convictions

4 -

Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s): Name

DeLoRus Davis-

Address 33/1 PorNTERSi

c. Remarks:

Investigator

Date

Form F4-B

NW

55923 Docid: 32265775* Page 2

---

## Page 3

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

NAME

Cleola Shields

3317 Pointer Ave:

Address

Dallas, Texas

Date_ 11-12-77 Time 11:30 A.M.

Place Residence

Phone: 214-630-0387

Interview:

On Nov. 22, 1963 Mrs. Shields was employed by Ed wells

fashions, which was located at 501 Elm St. 5th floor (corner

of Elm and Houstons Sts.) At approx. 12 noon Mrs. Shields.

and several co workers came down stairs for lunch and to watch

the Presidential motorcade.

prior to the arrival of the motor-

cade Mrs. Shields stated that she saw an auto driving around

the Plaza with writing on the body, advertising "Honest Joe's

Pawn Shop".

The auto left before the arrival of the motorcade

When the motorcade arrived, the President was waving and had

just passed when

she heard what sounded like a fire cracker

coming from the direction of the railroad crossing, the

President's hand went up towards his head and the car made

a little pause and then took off. We all ran to the rail-

road tressell and looked in the boxcars.

There was a lot

of people looking in the boxcars, also police were there.

We returned to work and were told to go home.

Interviever

(Signature)

Al Maxwe Lane,

Clarence Day, Harold Leap

Date Transcribed Nov:

•28i

:1977

bybas

(Ini

NW. 55923

DocId: 32265775 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

NAME

Address 3317 PoiNTeR the

Date /1-12-22 Timell:30 AM

Place RESOENCE - Ph214-630-0387

Mallos TExas.

interview: on hu-22,1983 Mo Philo was ey bayed at ly

Ed uhll Joakeins, whit was beated at 501 Els te

the auto left defoe the arial fete mirtreade,

When to mitreade arrived te

and west up 2

We all ran to the the wail road tell and lihul in ole

Roycaro. The wire a latf paple lothing in de

were tale to go heme,

Intervierer a Marael, dented, ints Larp

(Signature)

(Typed)

Date Transcribed

HW

23423

---

