# docid-32307212

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10291-10352

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 63-6466-113

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/16/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

APR, EMP, LABOR, ASSOC, JHO, MOB, CRIM ACT, RACK

AND SUBV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32307212

Page 1

7

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104-01

UNITED STATES

RNMENT

Memorandum.

TO

FROM

DIRECTOR, FBI

OF SAC, NEW YORK (92-1880)

FD21 1A

DATE:

6/16/61

6.-19.61 d

SUBJECT:

CRIMINAL INFLUENCE IN LABOR

ORGANIZATIONS - CRIMINAL

INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

AR.

The following is furnished for the information of the

Bureau and Newark:

New York PCI NICHOLASAKISBURG, former Public Relations

Director .for ANTHONY PROVENZANO, and presently employed by

JOHN O'FOURKE, President of Teamsters Joint Council 16, New York,

advised that ANTHONY CASTELLITTO, Secretary-Treasurer,

International Brotherhood of reamsters (IBI), Local 560,

Union CIty, New Jersey, who 1s presently missing, was a bitter

enemy of PROVENZANO.

PCI advised that CASTELLITTO was put into Local 560

by the "Charlle Yanowski pier nob"

.:He said that YANOWSKI was

murdered in New Jersey some time ago, but CASTELLITIO was stili

under obligation to YANOWSKI's associate

This informant

advised that PROVENZANO resented CAStELLItIO because or hi:

connections with the "Jewish mob"

and the hara feelings between

the two reached Its peak during the last elections held in

Local 560.

Informant advised that CASTELLITTO waged his own

campaign and made no effort to insure PROVENZANO's election.

Informant speculated that CASTELLITTO may have been

liquidated by henchmen of PROVENZANO or YANOWSKI since

CASTELLITTO was the

type of individual who would "double-cross

anybody"

For the information of the Bureau,

that the riff between JOHN O'ROURKE and JAMEnt farmant

HOFFA has widened

considerably and there appears to be little change of

reconciliation between the two.

Informant stated that at the

- Bureau.

I - Newark (Info)

1p4.r1

- New York

(92-664)

- New York

(92-2004)

1

: New York

137-7348)

1 - New York

(92-1880)

REG 44

63:6466-

113

Prak

WAV:pcs

(7)

JUN 261961

acId: 32307212

Page 2

---

