# docid-32306606

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

"Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10290-10246

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-146

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HILL, RALPH R. JR.

TO :

DIRECTOR; FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/07/1961

•PAGES:

44

SUBJECTS:

SGI, ASSOC AND REL, BKG, ARMORY LOUNGE, FISUR,

CRIMINAL A/O GAMBLING ACT, P/P, B/F INT, TRA,

NUMEROUS INTV, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32306606

Page 1

193

---

## Page 2

Report rorm

PDA78 141151

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/7/61

1/28/61 - 3/1/61

REPO

RALPH R. HILL, JR.

SANUEL M. GIANCANA, aka.

CHARACTER OF CASE

ALL INFORVATIO" CONTAINED

HLiscin iu

DATE

"while

IrED

ANTI-RACKETEERING

__BY.

TYMD BY

CRe

REFERENCE:

Roport of SA RALPH R. HIL, JR. dated 2/15/61 at Chicago.

=P-

LEADS

IAS VEGAS,

ALWAUKEE,

LOS

ANGELES, MIAMI,

SPRINGFIELD - Information

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE 523 94/

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

An Information copy of this report is being furnished the

_BY SP556/

above offices in viow of their pending investigations in this matter.u

INDIANAPOLIS

I SLAHARI, INDIANA. 1.

nUmber JA SELlART UDIAN vailable background information u

Will identify subscriber to telophone

number JA 3-5308 and furnish avallable background intormation. u

2.

Will conduct the same investigation relating to telephone

number JA 3-5350. 4

APPROVED

ES MADE:

Bureau (92-3171)

- Indianapolis

(92-341)

- Las Vegas

(92-308) (Info)

Los Angalos (Info)

Miami (92-170) (Info)

Milwaukao (92-93) (Info)

New York (92-793)

Springfield (92-188)

3 - Chicago (92-349)

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

lead logicinde

3/15/i1

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-3171+146

15

25 MAR Z0 1961

REC- 64

COVER PAGE

710

57 MAR 21 1961

PROPERTY OF FBI.-This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor ite contents are to be distributed outside the agancy to which loaned.

DocId: 32306606

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG

92-349

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK.

Will conduct the same

investigation requested of Indianapolis pertaining to New York

telephone number IN: 1-1014(U

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. Will continue to coordinate

and intensily the investigative efforts on GIANCANA designed

with the purpose of ascertaining his financial operations,

activities, associates and attempt to ascertain positive

information indicating GIANCANA's violation of Federal, State

or local laws. (U)

ADMINISTRATIVE

The Bureau has selected GIANCANA as one of the

Individuals for intensified Investigation. The Bureau has

instructed the office of

origin to submit

daily teletype

summaries rolating to his activities and desires preferred

attention given all leads and the thorough penetrative

investigation be conducted and the office of origin advised of

pertinent information by most expeditious means All leads are

to be submitted by teletype or airtel.

INFORMANTS

CG T-I

CG T-

CG T-3

CG. T-4

CG 6413-PC

CG 6341-C

CG

6343-0

PCI GLADYS EBLE tO

SA RALPH R. HILL, JR.:

-B -

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306606

Page

---

## Page 4

CG 92-349

CG T-5

CG T-6

CG T7

CG T-8

CG: T-9

CG T-10

CG T-11

CG T-12

CG T-13

PCI H. H. HODL to

RALPH R. HILL, JR.

D. E. STEPHENS, Village

President, Rosemont, Illinois,

to SA RALPH R. HILL, JR.

(requested)

CG 6435-PC

Sergeant FRANK MASH,

Intelligence unit,

Chicago Police Department,

to SA RALPH R. HILL, JR.

(requested)

CG 6277-C

MISS MARY ELLEN O'REGAN,

Security Department,

Illinois Bell Telephone Company,

chicago, lalinois,

to Investigative Clerk

HARRY W. CROON

(requested)

Mrs. MAdEL HIBBS,

Southern Bell Telephone and

Telegraph Company,

Miant, Florida

(requested)

CG 6343-04

MM 730-PC

•C.=

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306606

Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-349

CG T-14

CG T=15

MM 665-C

Mr. AL B. HOLTZ,

General Manager,

Lord's Warehouse,

ALLInO1S

CO SA RALPH B. BILL, JR.

(requested).

4

• D* =

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32306606

Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG 92-349

utilized as part of

this gambling operation.

Informant said

that when this situation became known, the Village President

telephonically contacted HODL, who was

then the licensee, and

advised him that he was aware of this operation and desired

It to cease immediately. On the next day, according to the

informant, the operation was closed. Shortly thereafter,

the Village President, Mr. D. E. STEVENS, according to the

Informant, was taken by ROCCO POTENZO fI

the Village President's

office at which time POTENZO offered the Village President

$1,000.00 per month to continue in the bookmaking operation

at the Airliner.

The Village President refused the offer

issue was closed."

CG T-5 advised on February 28, 1961, that the

Airliner Lounge was operated by HENRY HODL fOr ROCCO

POTENZO, who in turn was described by the informant as

Lieutenant of SAM GIANCANA.

POTENZO was licensee for this

establishment although he had no monetary interest in 1t.

CG T-5 described the gambling operation at the Airliner

as being operated ona

"sneak" basis and was not a continuing

permanent booknaking operation. It was utilized primarily

to handle bets which would normally have taken bets at the

Riviera Lounge and these were being taken at the Airliner on

an overflow basis. "

Riveria Lounge

6540 North Milwaukee Avenue

Niles, Illinois

During the above described physical surveillance

conducted by SAs HILl and

INSERRA at the Guys and Dolls

Lounge, it was noted that the Riviers Lounge opens at

approximately 9:30 p.m. and is

utilized, fron observation,

as a strip-tease parlor and place

of procurement.

ROCCO

POTENZO was observed at that time

both at the Guys and Dolls

and at the Riveria Lounge. U

-13-

DocId: 32306606

Page 6

---

