JFK Assassination System Date:
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10198-10323
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 92-2781-726 :
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: SAC, TP
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
, DATE: — 06/07/1963
PAGES: 3
H SUBJECTS : é
LST, INFORMANT, INTV.
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Unclassified
4

Redact
10/15/1998

INDEFINITE,

vol
Docld:32288047 Page 1

28

6/11/201


FD-36 (Rev. 12-19-56)

, Gs

FBI

Date: 6/7/63

t

1

1

1

i]

!

i

1

1

1
Transmit the following in___PLAIN TEXT |
1
1
I
ae

(Type in plain text or code)
Via ___ AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)
SAC, MIAMI (92-88)

FROM: SAC, TAMPA (92-1) (P)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka
AR
(00: TP)

WEEKLY AIRTEL SUMMARY
—_—_—_——_— eee

/ Houston Office advised efforts to interview ARNOLD A. BOLTE
a at Houston negative,

New York Office advised in view of sensitive nature of
investigation in JOSEPH T. ARCURI case, members of ARCURI family
not being interviewed at this time.

Cincinnati Office advised efforts to establish information
concerning a "SAUER" or: a “RONNIE PAGEANT" negative, =
Miami weekly airtel of 6/4/63 infers subject left Miami

early morning hours 5/26/63, a Sunday. (|

On Monday, 5/27/63, as has been previously pointed out,
subject was reported at the Columbia Restaurant at 9:00 P.M. in
the company of JIMMY LONGO and subject's son-in-law, :

(3 - Bureau (Am)
2 - Miami (AM)

1 - Tampa
88 Bina
er 8 JUN :
| | A UI 4 _ 10 1963
ge Cat : . ~~
| = wee
Approved: _ Sent M | Per

Special Agent in Charge

Docld:32288047 Page 2


TP 92-1

On Tuesday morning, 5/28/63, WILLIE MAE JACKSON (maid at
2505 Bristol - Protect) advised subject was home on Monday. As
previously indicated, subject took TWA flight at 1:15 P.M. on
5/28/63 to Miami,

TP 97-C advised on 6/3/63 that subject must have returned
to Tampa, inasmuch as he was at the Columbia Restaurant at 6:00 P.M.
on 6/3/63.

Investigation at Tampa International Airport on 6/4/63 through

Delta Airlines Manager DICK KNOWLES, R. E. FELLOWFIELD and H. H.

SELBY established there were approximately six passengers aboard

TWA Flight 550 on 5/28/63, but that five of the passengers were

walk-ups which is a common practice at Tampa International Airport

and has been for the past six months, inasmuch as there are so

many flights between Tampa and Miami and numerous carriers traveling

most every hour. They advised passengers common practice in view

of the above is to walk up, purchase a ticket, and immediately

go aboard the carrier that is leaving immediately after their

arrival at the airport, Mr. KNOWLES stated that in view of the
© above, no passenger records were kept as ito true identities |
7 of passengers, as they could furnish any name, it being noted
tr that subject's name was not among the six passengers. - i

‘
fl In the morning of 6/6/63, WILLIE MAE JACKSON (protect) advised
iH SANTO had arrived at 2505 Bristol Ave. on the evening of 6/5/63

and had dinner and was still there at approximately 8:30 P.M, when
source left, Source gathered he had just arrived from out of town.

7 On 6/7/63, PEDRO AYALA, Tampa International Airport Police
{| Chief, telephonically advised the Tampa Office that subject was
| aboard Delta Airlines flight leaving Tampa 2:38 P.M. to arrive
' Miami 3:21 P.M, and Miami Office was advised,

| On 5/27/63, after 3:00 P.M., SAM TRAFFICANTE was observed

driving his vehicle and an unknown male was in the front seat =
with him, with AUGUSTINE PRIMO LAZZARA in the back seat, They :-
subsequently went to 4510 10th Ave., Tampa. which is known as the
residence of FRANK DIECIDUE. :

On 6/5/63, TP 108-PC advised SAM TRAFFICANTE, PRIMO LAZZARA
and the subject visited FRANK DIECIDUE's house, inasmuch as FRANK

2

ae

Ll

| Docla:32288047 Page 3
