File #:

- Serial Scope:

253 256 36/362, 366, 305 261 37, 37) 37a 37

330 _ 4ab
332X HAR They ¥F/
Big oiee eee
390 THR 375 437

377°
Yoo
YoY THRY ¥O7

413 THRE [6
bist
420

4g) eae ea SE Pea ale
ane : =f alia eesesererees - -

‘WW 55051 Docld:32989749 Page 1



FD-36 (Rev. 7-27276)

TRANSMIT VIA: nin nab CHD ENOE? = GEA

© Teletype Co Immediate (© TOP SECRET
(2 Facsimile ( Priority © SECRET

a Airtel (2 Routine (0 CONFIDENTIAL

OEFTO
(CLEAR

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290) Telephone Rm.__|_
(ATTN: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT,
RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION)
FROM: SAC, ST. LOUIS (62-5097) (¢)
SUBJECT: O,

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

ot, fi
Re Bureau teletype to St. Louis, 2/10/78, captioned
as above.

:' Enclosed under separate cover for Headquarters
is a Xerox copy of each serial in SL 170-1767 and SL 170-1767
Sub A as was requested in retel. Also enclosed is destruction

memoranda concerning SL 1495-E (former) substantive file.
Case closed in St. Louis.

: @ Bureau

(1 - via ee (Ene. 1)

2- St. Louis eae

(1- oa. A - Gorge gas ee

(1- 170-1767 Satay fos eaecaceeeaton
dae AL Aree, 58 =f! V2 La! C) 043i]

B& FEB 15 1979

Transmitted —__ Per
(Number)

GPO + 1977 © = 225-539



e wae

TELETYPE 1- ad rier Sara Division”
ROUTINE 1- Mr. & 5. Foster
1-Mr. 3. T. Aldhizer, ;
EFTO /ge/" pe a-hes
FM DIRECTOR (62-117290) :
pry oe
ey TO ST, LOUIS (ROUTINE) oe x ”
e ‘APPROBR
BT
EFTO |
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)
- REFERENCE BUREAU TELETYPE TO ST, LOUIS DATED
\
. Ri - i
JANUARY 25, 1978; ST, LOUIS TELETYPES TO BUREAU JANUARY 27,

1978, AND JANUARY 31, 1978."

EI OY 790 FE

ON FEBRUARY 8, 1978, G, ROBERT BLAKEY, CHIEF COUN-
: SEL AND DIRECTOR, HSCA, ADVISED HIS STAFF HAD CONTACTED
| FORMER SL, 1495-E, WHO HAS AGREED TO COOPERATE WITH re sd
; SCA, ON FEBRUARY 9, 1978, STAFF ATTORNEY MICHAEL 3
sh EBERHARDT, HSCA, ADVISED THAT SL 1495-E HAS EXECUTED A
é SIGNED WAIVER AUTHORIZING HSCA ACCESS TO ALL. FBI INFORMA-
= TION CONCERNING HIM, INCLUDING THAT PERTAINING TO HIS
; INFORMANT Activities, *€085 G2-/ 17 Ch iw >
see Par 22 FEB 18 1978

Dep. AD A
Dep. AD tn
Asst. Diez

ce to ERAN

SEE NOTE PAGE 3.

Intell.
Loborstory —.
Logel Coun.

ai : fabs, BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
a hED\9 s 1s eae SECTION

ate wD
LeTYPE,

FBI/DOJI

Telephone Rm. —

Director's Secty — MAIL ROOM (1) - PELETYPE UNIT

[itm O8FEB 27 1979 se

.NW 55051 Docld:32989749 Page 3



PAGE TWO EFTO ‘62-117290

‘ST, LOUIS PROMPTLY FURNISH FBIHQ ONE. XEROX COPY

OF EACH SERIAL IN INFORMANT'S MAIN FILE AND SUB A FILE
(170-1767) AND ONE COPY OF ANY VOUCHER OR DOCUMENT WHICH
CONCERNS ANY ASPECT OF SOURCE'S OPERATION AND ANY PAY-
MENT WHICH WAS MADE TO HIM, ADDITIONALLY, PROVIDE FBIHQ
WITH ONE COPY OF ANY MAIN FILE OR REFERENCE IN YOUR
OFFICE WHICH MAY BE IDENTIFIABLE WITH INFORMANT.(¢%) le
THIS MATERIAL SHOULD BE FORWARDED BY COVER AIR-
TEL TO FBI HEADQUARTERS, ATTENTION CONGRESSIONAL ,

INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION, UPON RECEIPT AT
FBIHQ, THE MATERIAL WILL BE PROCESSED FOR ACCESS OF STAFF
MEMBERS.OF HSCA, PROVIDED THE WAIVER DESCRIBED AS ABOVE
IS RECEIVED,
BT

abd 55051 DociId:32989745 Page 4



PAGE THREE 62-117290 EFTO PALIT

NOTE: SL 1495-E (former) (Bureau file 1384-19686) was operated

from January, 1970, to approximately September, 1971,
primarily targeted against White Hate Groups. In 1971, he traveled
to Savannah, Georgia, at which time he reported on activities of the
National States Rights Party office and that Jerry Ray, brother of
James Earl Ray, stated he knew there was another party involved in
the killing of King and that his brother was the one who pulled the
trigger. This is the apparent HSCA interest in informant.

Referenced communications concern previous informal

' requests by the HSCA that we contact SL 1495-E to determine if he
would be willing to be interviewed by the Committee. St. Louis con-
tacted informant on 1/27/78 and he agreed, but two days later submitted
a letter to St. Louis declining to be interviewed by the HSCA, Subse-
quently, the HSCA determined informant's identity through its investi-
gation and contacted him, at which time, according to the HSCA, he
agreed to interview, By letter to the Attorney General dated 1 (26/78,

! the HSCA has asked for all information at FBI Headquarters and in

\ the field concerning informant,

This matter has been coordinated with SA D, O, Coulson,
Legal Liaison and Congressional Affairs Unit, Legal Counsel Division,
and SA M, V. Hale, Top Echelon and Criminal Informant Unit, Criminal
Investigative Division.

ye 55051 DociId:32989749 Page 5 . et . 7



,

FD-36 (Rev. 7-27-76)

TRANSMIT VIA: PRECEDENCE: CLASSIFICATION: I
( Teletype «CU Immediate (TOP SECRET ~ I t
2 Facsimile CO Priority [4 SECRET H a
£3) Airtel © Routine (2 CONFIDENTIAL H v
QEFTO H
(9 CLEAR i
1
!

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)
(Attention: Congressional Inquiry Unit,
Records Management Division)

FROM : SAC, CHICAGO (62-7385) (C)

i)
SUBJECT :_ EE

ON ASSASSINATIONS
reeniaeeishoedndesSESnascnesneratnist

ReButelcall to Chicago 2/1/78.

. Enclosed for the Bureau are two copies each of ten
letters from JERRY RAY to MARJORIE LOUISE FETTERS.

All of the above letters were originally received
from the Newark Division in a Xeroxed condition thus the
quality of the above enclosures is not entirely satisfactory.
However, per referenced Bureau telephone call, Chicago will
maintain the original Xerox copy in its file 44- 1114.

4

ey iE
rn veal te . EX-140 r

1 «= Chicago Z
ny sjeo a QL III © aH
4

Transmitted —__________ Per
(Number) (Time)

, GPO : 1977 0 - 225-539
\



‘ os ¥
NOO149 99521352

RR HI

52 Pa T
DE NO dm 3 Piles
R @52125Z JAN 78 eae AL nA i

CONHURIGATIONS SECTION
FM NEW ORLEANS (66-2878) (RUC)~

3p/ DIRECTOR (62-117298) ROUTINE
ta
Vor

EFTO ~

Director's Sec'y—— |

(OUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA); BUDED: JAN. 13,
19 78.

REBUTEL, DEC. 27, 1977.30"

1) SA STEPHEN M, CALLENDER OF THE NEW ORLEANS, DIVISION WAS
THE NEW ORLEANS FIELD OFFICE CASE AGENT ASSIGNED TO-THE "MURKIN"
INVESTIGATION, AT THE TIME SA CALLENDER WAS ASSIGNED THE “MURKIN”
CASE, HE WAS ASSIGNED TO THE NUMBER SIX SQUAD IN THE NEW ORLEANS
OFFICE, THIS SQUAD HANDLED CR, RACIAL AND RELATED MATTERS.
"MUR KIN" WAS UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF FORMER ASAC JOSEPH T.
SYLVESTER, JR. THE NATURE OF CALLENDER'S ASSIGNMENT EE 50

preoses C2 PFO

cy 4,
“105
BS JAN 26 1978
ene SALSA ;
‘ha wid Lies O77 429,
nae 1 RES HesacKye
poli é copies made pe 3
[co* : w : JZ Pv
aa . for revioy af FbIng by
5 Bre ee HSCA re. request.
Nw 550 FEL 32989749 Page 7 (See Burlid #63-117290)



PAGE TWO NO 66-2878 EFTO

PRIOR TO HIS INVOLVEMENT IN THE "MURKIN" INVESTIGATION WAS IN THE
FIELDS OF CR, RACIAL AND RELATED MATTERS.

II) THE FILES OF THE NEW ORLEANS OFFICE FAIL TO REVEAL THAT
THIS OFFICE EITHER CONSIDERED OR ENGAGED IN ANY COUNTERINTELLI-
GENCE (COIN TEL PRO) EFFORTS DIRECTED AGAINST KING OR THE SOUTHERN
” CHR IST IAN LEADER SHIP CONFERENCE (SCLC),

NEW ORLEANS FILES WHICH INVOLVE THE SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS
OF KING (NO 199-1680@) AND THE SCLC (NO 1890-16849) HAVE BEEN
THOROUGHLY REVIEWED, NEW ORLEANS WAS MERELY AN AUXILIARY OFFICE
IN THESE INVESTIGATIONS, WITH ATLANTA BEING THE 00, THE EXTENT
OF INVEST IGAT ION CONDUCTED BY NEW ORLEANS WAS THE COVERING OF
LEADS IN LA., SEP FORTH BY ATLANTA OR OTHER OFFICES, THESE TwO
FILES WERE REVIEWED SERIAL BY SERIAL AND NOWHERE IS THERE ANY
INDICAT ION WHERE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES WERE EITHER
CONSIDERED OR CARRIED OUT AGAINST KING OR THE SCLC BY THE NEW
ORLEANS OFFICE,

DIRING THE PERIOD OF 1965 - 1968, THE KING FILE IN THE NEW
ORLEANS OFFICE WAS REOPENED AND ASSIGNED AND THEN RUC"D AT LEAST
SEVEN TIMES AND THE SCLC FILE WAS REOPENED AND ASSIGNED AT LEAST
FIVE TIMES DUR ING THIS SAME PERIOD.

NW 55051 DociId:32989749 Page 8



PAGE THREE NO 66-2878 E FT 0

AIR MAIL COPY SENT ATLANTA DIVISION.
BT

NW 55051 DocId:32989745 Page 9



rami ” YT
5-6 | \ A AD ham
“0018 B272158 °° ~ “ . - Dee AD Inv. =
st. Dir.——————
RR~HO » f we th a Aeon, sow
Crim. Inv
Fin. & Pers.—
DE SL Hon +
Intell _—_____—

4 3 he \
R 2721452 JAN 78 - gan 2/4 5p HTB Yaborstony —

Mi ST. LOUIS (62-5097) (C) &,

Plan. & Insp.——

R u ,
FERE RAL BUREAY on Ree. Mgut——|-
TO iRECT OR ROUTINE UF INVESTIGATION Spec.

av Tech. Servs
COHMUNICATIONS SECTION : Trauing.

Tolophone Rm
we FT 0

| Public Aifs. oft
| [i Director's Sec'y——

ATTENTION CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, RREOR

——
USE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATLONS CHSCAD of

Ina Séotion—

Lb
RE BUREAU TEL TO ST. LOUIS, JANUARY 25, 1978, CAPTIOWED-AS =e EEEEE
ABOVE.

SL 1495-E (FORMER) CONTACTED THIS DATE.

HE WAS ADVISED OF
HSCA'S EXISTENCE AND ITS DESIRE TO INTERVIEW HIM CONCERNING CONTENTS

nnn ene

OF LHM DATED MAY 28, 1971, CAPTIONED “NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,
RM - NSRP".
SOURCE (FORMER) WAS ADVISED THAT HSCA HAS INTERVIEWED OTHER

INDIVIDUALS IN CONNECTION WITH THIS MATTER AND WILL BE ISSUING SUB
POENAS.

INITIAL REACTION OF SOURCE WAS THAT HE HAD NO STRONG
JECTION TO BEING INTERVIEWED BY HSCA.

SOURCE (FORMER) WAS THEN ADVISED THAT CONFERENCES WITH HSCA

any REC-5G oA -// APFO YAY
>;

A ee eee mee
ER 349

EP 9 TBosoras a SPGNES .- ~ Nilamesgt>

BSb:



>
¥

PACE e

Tule SL\ 62-5097 E FT 0

‘ati Dos wou “BE UNDERBLKEN To WORK OUT DETAILS ae
CONFIDENTIALITY, LOCATON aND SCOPE OF INTERVIEV.™

IT IS NOTED THAT SOURCE (FORMER) UNDERWENT MAJOR HEART AND
ABDOMINAL SURGERY DURING OCTOBER AND NOVEMBER, 1977, IS CURRENTLY
RECOVERING AND UNDER DOCTOR'S CARE. HE RESIDES 12359 OLD HALLS

FERRY ROAD, FLORISSANT, MO., (314) 355-159@ AND IS UNEMPLOYED.
a

NW 55051 Docid:32989749 Page 11

SF


ey

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE FBB778

nea Ji 315 20 PH yg
oo RECEIVED
- PAGE Bl LONDON 1641 5 1b2O SBE cuREAy

COMMUNIC, HA
ACTION EUR- 12 ANIONS SECTION

Telephone Rm __

Director's Sec'y___

INFO OCT-91 IS0-68 H-@1 MCT-G1 JUSE-68 FBIE-@9 INR-97

L-63 /925 WU +) . I GAFR

wee ew enn n nn wne 2--999858 3122992 /41

R 3112642 JAN 78
aoe AL CWEREIUE

} FM AMEMBASSY LONDON 4 af) .
4 or Ke AT2CL.,

TO SECSTATE wASHDC 26g4}

V4

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE LONDON 91641 a 4
EX1AD yp |

Es. 11652: N/A Se 4

REC: 13 ¥ oY)

TAGS: PINR PDIP UK | Eee lp }) 723 : la”
SUBJECT: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS — a el LS ic 4
cet |

' ty FEB 2 1978 4

REF: STATE 10886

“AUG 2g per eeeeicrs—

FOR .H"- 78 oe BENNET) AND EUR/NE
Hw 55051 Ddceh7ébss9749 Page 12



le IN+ ACCORD ANCE Ren PASSED ON TO THE &: OFFICE

THE REQUEST OF THE WEUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASWASSIN- {
ATIONS FOR ACCESS TO BRITISH POLICE RECORDS AND

KNOWLEDGEABLE PERSONS CONCERNED WITH THE ARREST OF

JANES EARECRAY WITHOUT THE COMMITTEE RESPONDING FIRST

TO THE QUESTIONS RAISED-PREVIOUSLY BY BRITISH OFFICIALS.

2. THE HOME OFFICE INFORMED THE EMBASSY ON JANUARY 26

THAT IT IS CONSULTING THE LONDON METROPOLITAN POLICE

ABOUT THE COMMITTEE’S REQUEST AND WILL LET US KNOW THE

OUTCOME AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.

BREWSTER

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

WwW 55051 DoclId: 32969745 Page 13



th hous stoKes, oM10, CHAIRMAN toa

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. BAMUZg, La DEVINE, OHIO. € :

WALTER E. PAUNTROY, D.C. srev li. MCKINNEY, CONN. yt aS.

TERME DRATRRAIE OURKE, CALF. CUNIBNONE, NEON p
MAR’ ‘eR, MICH.

CHRISTOPHEH, Dot

Flore 3. FILMIAN, IND. 7 Select Committee on Mssasginations
RODEAT We EDOAR, PAS a iS
(eon 225-4828 7 GS. House of Representatives
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.G. 20515

i goes wren January 30, 1978"

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States
Cy Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room 2113
Dear Mr. Attorney General: ‘ ae

into the death of Dr. Martin LutherKing, Jr., a request was”
made by letter dated November 30, 1977, for FBI files relating

In connection with the invesfgation by this Committee f|

to Dr. King. These files included the following:

1. The main security file on Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jx., for the period January 1, 1967 through
‘May 1, 1968.

2. The main file on the Southern Christian Leader-
ship Conference for the period January 1, 1967
through May 1, 1968. 7

3. The file on the Memphis Sanitation Strike for the
period January 1, 1968 through May 1, 1968.

4. he file on Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr./Poor

People's March for the period December 1, 1967 Yas:

through May 1, gsctl> REC.g La-lIVAGs —

5. All materials pertaining to Martin Luther King,.-
dx., and the SCLC in the COINTELPRO filg,
BEER 6 178
We have been advised that all of the above files are
now available for review by the Committee. ee

: It is now requested, however, that the foregoing files,
except for the Memphis Sanitation Strike, be prepared for Com~
mittee review for the following extended dates:

TREBT AS GRIP 220
CRIEINAT

5EFEB 141978, oe

NW 55051 Docld:32989749 Pade 14

ml



a : ry
@hé Honorable Griffin B. Bell
January 30, 1978 : ian

Page 2 vay

1. The main security file on Dr. Martin Luther King,
dr., for the periods: A

a. October'1, 1962:- December 31, 1966
b. May 1, 1968 - April 1, 1969

2. The main file on the Southern Christian Leadership
Conference for the periods:

a. October 1, 1962 - December 31,:' 1966
b. May 1,.1968 = April 1, 1969

3. The COMINFIL and COINTELPRO files as such relate
to Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., for the periods:

a. October 1; 1962 - December 31, 1966.
b. May 1, 1968 - April 1, 1969

4. The files on the Poor Peoples' March from May 1,
1968 to the closing date of this file.

. Your prompt attention to these matters will be greatly
appreciated.

Respectfully,

Ath. % Coad,

G. Robert Blakey
Chief Counsel and Director

<8 :med
ce: Danny 0. Coulson

NW 55051 DocId:32989749.~-Page 15...



oe 9)

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. ‘SAMUEL
Watren £2 FAUNTROY, Die stewart
~ Ywowute ERATHWATTE DUNE, CALIF, GHAMLES TAREE, NOR Z.
Exaistopnien 1. 0050, cox. fianato 8. SawveR, MICH. aan
Ploy J. ermates, n Select: Committee on Assassinations.
mobenrW. EOGAR, PA. : ep noe

epee GH, House of Representatives

A 3931 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2 CI
, WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515 t/3 Vien
of 7
0) The Honorable Griffin B. Bell’

Attorney General of the United States
Department of Justice
Washington, D.C. 20530

‘Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch
: Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room ‘2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this
Committee into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,
it is requested that the FBI provide the Committee with
photographs of all Atlanta agents assigned to the.
security investigation of Dr. King during the period :
1967-68. To the extent possible, these photographs should
depict the agents involved as they appeared in 1967-1968

or as close thereto as possible. : ~.
Your prompt attention to this matter will be : oe

greatly appreciated.

Sincerely ,

falar Slabagy,

G. Robert Blakey
Chief Counsel and Director

CAI RPO

pened a O. coursonFBZ-y 49 2a, af
te, 2-7 4p 4?

TREAT As ; @ FEB Y 1978
OR) 6-71 At. =

7 WV"
mt AW EE Boca OZ g749 Page 16



an P

pede TELETYPE
ROUTINE
EFTO 1/25/78
FM DIRECTOR 1+ Mr. Foster
1 - Criminal Intelligence Div.
TO ST. LOUIS (ROUTINE) (Attn: Mr. J. EL MoHale,
Br
C) EFTO
cr sams @ nouse SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

REFERENCE ST. LOUIS AIRTEL AND Lait TO BUREAU DATED

‘

4

po maspay, /° 5 - C627 3-

MAY 28, 197], CAPTIONED, "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY, RMZ
NSRP." . a

THE HSCA IS CURRENTLY CONDUCTING INVESTIGATION INTO THE
ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.’ IN THAT CONNECTION,
VARIOUS DOCUMENTS, INCLUDING REFERENCED COMMUNICATION, HAVE

IBY -/ 76 F&

BEEN MADE AVAILABLE FOR HSCA REVIEW.

ON JANUARY 23, 1978, G. ROBERT BLAKEY, CHIEF COUNSEL AND
DIRECTOR, HSCA, ADVISED CHAT THE HSCA DESIRES TO INTERVIEW THE

\ 5
FBI INFORMANT WHO ee, INFORMATION IN REFERENCED LHM.
BLAKEY REQUESTED THAT™: FORMBEC-54 Nis Sib tancaed fabass S99. OF Lay
B ial oH fon” 7%

THE HSCA'S INTEREST IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THER OR NOT

INFORMANT HAD ANY OBJECTIONS TO BEING INTERVIEWED BY

aihassas (1) , SEE NOTE PAGE 4 © FEB] soap

AY, vad
1 - 134-19686 . _ aauae?t FEDERAL BURERUSGR INVESTIGATION
1 - 62-117290 COMMUNIGATIONS SECTION
JAN BS 1978
ap SIP
TELETYPE

Meee
ioctinae 8 FEB 141978

Director's Sec'y — MaiLRooN CT * TELETYPE UNIT
NW 55051 Docld:32989749 Page 17



boi 55051 Docld:32989749 Page 18 7

PAGE TWO EFTO

REPRESENTATIVES OF THE HSCA.

INFORMANT IS SL ]495-E (FORMER), WHO WAS OPERATED FROM
JANUARY, 1970, TO APPROXIMATELY SEPTEMBER ]97]. INFORMANT
WAS PRIMARILY TARGETED AGAINST WHITE-HATE GROUPS AND WAS
SUBJECT OF BUREAU FILE 134-9686 AND ST. LOUIS FILE 170-1767.

ON JANUARY 24, ]978, SUPERVISOR JAMES HAGGERTY DETERMINED
THAT INFORMANT IS LISTED IN THE CURRENT ST. LOUIS TELEPHONE
DIRECTORY AND THAT THERE HAS BEEN.NO CONTACT WITH INFORMANT
SINCE HE WAS CLOSED IN ]97].

ST. LOUIS PROMPTLY commence FORMER SL J495-E. ADVISE HIM
OF THE HSCA'S EXISTENCE, AND ITS DESIRE TO INTERVIEW HIM
APPARENTLY CONCERNING THE CONTENTS OF REFERENCED LHM.

ADVISE HIM THE HSCA HAS INTERVIEWED OTHER INDIVIDUALS IN
CONNECTION WITH REFERENCED LHM AND WILL BE ISSUING SUBPOENAS
IN CONNECTION WITH THIS MATTER. DETERMINE AT THIS POINT ONLY
HIS INITIAL REACTION TO BEING INTERVIEWED BY REPRESENTATIVES
OF THE HSCA. IF HE HAS NO OBJECTIONS TO AN INTERVIEW, HE
SHOULD BE TOLD THAT CONFERENCES WITH THE HSCA AND DEPARTMENT
OF JUSTICE WILL BE UNDERTAKEN TO WORK OUT ADDITIONAL DETAILS



ud $5051

PAGE THREE EFTO

REGARDING THE EXTENT OF PROTECTION ‘AND ‘CONFIDENTIALITY
THE HSCA IS WELLING TO EXTEND AS WELL AS DETAILS. REGARDING
THE LOCATION AND SCOPE OF INTERVIEW.

SUTEL RESULTS TO FBIHQ, ATTENTION CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY
UNIT, RECORDS. MANAGEMENT DIVISION.
Br

Docid:32989749 Page 19

ae


PAGE FOUR EFTO

NOTE The HSCA plans to submit a formal request regarding
this matter, but requested informant be contacted for his
initial reaction to interview. The Congressional Inquiry Unit,
Legal Liaison and Congressional Affairs Unit and Mr. Robert L.
Keuch, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division,
agree this approach is best prior to continuing discussions

to resolve legal and other issues.

The apparent interest of the HSCA involves informant's
travel to Savannah, Georgia, in 1971 at which time he reported
on activities at the NSRP Office in Savannah, as set forth in
referenced communication. Informant reported that Jerry Ray,
brother of.James Earl Ray, and J. B. Stoner, National Chairman,
NSRP, were in the office when Jerry said that the FBI and he
knew there was another party involved in the killing of King
and that his brother was the one who pulled the trigger. The -
HSCA has requested FBI information on the NSRP, Stoner,

Jerry Ray and other individuals identified as being in attendance
in the NSRP Office in Savannah during that time. One of the
individuals present., Richard Geppert, was later developed

as an informant of the Springfield Office. Geppert has been
interviewed by the HSCA and has furnished a signed statement

in which he gives authority for HSCA review of all FBI —
information conéerning him, including that pertaining to his aa
confidential relationship with the FBI.

This matter has been coordinated with Legal Liaison and

‘ Congressional Affairs Unit and the Organized Crime Section,
Criminal Investigative Smee Division

d:32989749 Page 20 -

~~



“ss . Assoc. Dir.
~ 1 Dep. AD Adm
a A J Dep. AD Inv.

miO513 91499392 . Aeat Dies —
+ Crim. Tnv¥

RR Ke Fa, & Pers

‘ dent__

DE HE BH { dq 4 52 a Ty Intell

(UP 14 99302 Jan 78 ; fEOEIAE Sites
7 ConHHTeaRelen TON

FM MEMPHIS (66-2197) (RUC) MPATIENS SECTION

TO DIRECTOR (62-117299) Pie |

BI , . Director's Sec'y— j

EFTO

ATTN: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE
DIVISION,

rouse SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS CHSCA). BUDED
SESE SENDERS

a

JAR. 13, 1978. ¢
“THE MURKIN INVESTIGATION WAS ASSIGNED TO SA JOE Cc. Lo

HESTER, NOW RETIRED, ON APRIL 4, 1968, AND WAS REASSIGNED -
TO SA BURL F. JOHNSON ON AUG. 1, 1977. THE MEMPHIS OFFICE

DID NOT HAVE A SQUAD BREAKDOWN AT THE TIME THE CASE WAS
ASSIGNED TO SA HESTER. SA HESTER WAS ASSIGNED GENERAL. |
CRIMINAL WORK IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO HIS INVOLVEMENT IN THE

MURKIN INVESTIGATION. SA JOHNSON WAS ASSIGNER, MESTIC F220
EX. ECS 5" Ngaq.-P
SECURITY AND CORRUPTION OF PUBLIC” ALS INVESTIGATIONS@sesm ecco
IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO THE TIME THE MURKIN CASE WAS 22 JAN 81 1978
REASSIGNED TO HIM. semen SER SE
a ‘a
be Sais | “Spwacets
i eof) copies degen “6
5
1° i a7 for review gt FEINO by FBIHQ by
oy yr
os 3B FEB 141978 . SCA reblsfr7_ wafr7_veauost.

Docld:32989749 Page 21 {See But. le @ #62~117290}



PAGE TWO. ME 62-2 is EFTO e

MEMPHIS FILE 199-4542 ENTITLED “ COUNTERINTELLIGENCE <
PROGRAM, BLACK NATIONALIST HATE GROUPS, RACIAL MATTERS,"
WAS FIRST OPENED ON aUG. 28, 1967, AND ASSIGNED TO SA
JOSEPH H, KEARNEY, JR., NOW RETIRED, UNTIL IT WAS REASSIGNED
TO SA HOWELL $. LOWE ON MARCH 7, 1968, IT REMAINED so
ASSIGNED UNTIL IT WAS CLOSED ON MAY 1, 1971. MEVPHIS OFFICE
HAD NO SQUAD BREAKDOWN DURING THE PERIOD 1965-68, IMMEDIATELY
PRIOR TO THE ASSIGNMENT OF THIS CASE, SA KEARNEY WAS INVOLVED
IN CIVIL RIGHTS AND SECURITY MATTER INVESTIGATIONS, AND SA
LOWE WAS INVOLVED IN RACIAL AND SECURITY MATTER
INVESTIGATIONS,

WEMPHIS FILE 109-4704 ENTITLED "NEW LEFT,
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM", WAS OPENED ON MAY 15, 1968,
AND ASSIGNED TO LAWRENCE J. OLSON, IT WAS REASSIGNED To
SA BURL F. JOHNSON ON FEB, 29, 1971, AND REMAINED SO ASSIGNED
UNTIL IT WAS CLOSED ON APRIL 12, 1971. SA'S OLSON AND
JOHNSON WERE INVOLVED IN SECURITY MATTER INVESTIGATIONS

IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO ASSIGNMENT OF THIS CASE.



Pa@E THREE = ME <o- EF TO )
"MEMPHIS FILE al@g-4046 ENTITLED "COMMUNIST PARTY, USA,
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAN” WAS ASSIGNED TO SA WILLIAM H.

LAWRENCE, NOW RETIRED, ON THE FOLLOWING OCCASIONS:

OPENED JULY 23, 1964, PLACED IN RUC STATUS APRIL 29,
1966; REOPENED AUG. 24, 1966, PLACED IN RUC STATUS AUG. 39,
1966; REOPENED MARCH 31, 1967, PLACED IN RUC STATUS JUNE 13,
1967; REOPENED OCT. 18, 1967, PLACED IN RUC STATUS DEC. 29,
1967. IT REMAINED IN RUC STATUS UNTIL DEC. 26, 1974.

SA LAWRENCE WAS INVOLVED IN SECURITY AND RACIAL MATTER
INVESTIGATIONS IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO ASSIGNMENT OF THIS CASE

ON EACH OCCASION,
MEMPHIS FILE 157-576 ENTITLED “COUNTERINTELLIGENCE

PROGRAM, DISRUPTION OF HATE GROUPS" WAS FIRST OPENED ON
SEPT. 4, 1964, AND ASSIGNED TO SA WILLIAM H. LAWRENCE, AND
SWAS PLAC IN RuC STATUS ON JUNE 15, 1965, THIS CASE WAS
REOPENED JUNE 18, 1965, AND PLACED IN RUC STATUS ON SEPT. 9,
1965, IT WAS REOPENED JAN, 2, 1966, AND ASSIGNED TO SA
LAWRENCE, IT WAS REASSIGNED TO SA MERRILL F. MC CLOUGHAN ON
JUNE 3, 1966, SA MC CLOUGHAN IS NOW RETIRED. IT WAS

O51

DocId:32989749 Page 23



e 6

PAGE FOUR ME 62-2197 EFTO

REASSIGNED TO SA ROBERT F. FITZPATRICK ON MAY 19, 1968, AND
REMAINED SO ASSIGNED UNTIL IT WAS CLOSED ON NAY 1, 1971.
IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO ASSIGNMENT OF THIS CASE, SA LAWRENCE
WAS INVOLVED IN SECURITY AND RACIAL MATTEC INVESTIGATIONS,
SA HILLIN WAS INVOLVED IN SECURITY AND RACIAL MATTER
INVESTIGATIONS, SA MC CLOUGHAN WAS INVOLVED IN RACIAL MATTER
INVESTIGATION, AND SA FITZPATRICK WAS INVOLVED IN CIVIL
RIGHTS AND GENERAL CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS,

MEMPHIS FILE 190-4195 ENTITLED MMARTIN LUTHER KING,
IRey SECURITY MATTER - C" WAS OPENED ON JAN. 2, 1965, AND
ASSIGNED TO SA WILLIAM H, LAWRENCE, AND WAS SO ASSIGNED UNTIL
IT WAS CLOSED ON APRIL 11, 1968. SA LAWRENCE WAS ASSIGNED
SECURITY AND RACIAL MATTER INVESTIGATIONS IMMEDIATELY PRIOR
TO ASSIGNMENT OF THIS CASE,

MEMPHIS FILE 157-166 ENTITLED "COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF
THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE” (COMINFIL SCLS)
IS - C, WAS FIRST OPENED IN THE MEMPHIS OFFICE ON SEPT. 26,
1961, IT WAS PLACED IN RUC STATUS AND RE-OPENED A NUMBER OF

55051 DocId:32989749 Page 24


' «

PAGE FIVE ME62-2197 EFTO ,
TIMES PRIOR TO PERIOD 1965-68, IT WAS OPENED AND ASSIGNED
DURING THIS PERIOD AS FOLLOWS:

IT WAS REOPENED AND ASSIGNED TO SA JOSEPH H. KEARNEY,
JR., ON FOLLOWING OCCASIONS,

REOPENED JULY 12, 1965, PLACED IN RUC STATUS NOV. 17,
19653; REOPEN NOV. 17, 1965, PLACED IN RUC STATUS JAN. 31,
1966, REOPENED APRIL 29, 1966, PLACED IN RUC STATUS MAY 2%,
1966,

IT WAS REOPENED AND ASSIGNED TO SA HOWELL S. LOWE ON
THE FOLLOWING OCCASIONS:

REOPENED DEC, 19, 1967, PLACED IN RUC STATUS JULY 17,
1972.

SA KEARNEY WAS INVOLVED IN RACIAL AND SECURITY MATTER
AND CIVIL RIGHTS INVESTIGATIONS IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO THE
ASSIGNMENTS OF THIS CASE. SA LOWE WAS INVOLVED IN RACIAL
AND SECURITY MATTER INVESTIGATIONS IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO THE
ASSIGNMENTS OF THIS CASE.

Page 25

NW 55051 DocIa:32989749



PAGE SEX. ME soos EFTO @
q
A REVIEW OF MEMPHIS COINTELPRO FILES AND FILES ON THE
SECURITY MATTER INVESTIGATION OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING,

JR., AND INTERNAL SECURITY INVESTIGATION OF SCLC REVEALED
NO INSTANCES WHERE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES WERE
EITHER CONSIDERED OR CARRIED OUT AGAINST KING AND THE SCLC.
BT

NWo55051 DocId:32989749 Page 26

s.



Assoc, Dit.
Dep. AD Adm——
Dop. AD Iny, .
Asst. Dir.:, —
Adm. Serv.
Crim. Inv.
Fin, & Pers_____
Ident.
Intell

csoa14 9052317 . 7
dan 5-6 25PHOTR
RR HQ . :

RECEIVE \
ni GF aWVeSTIBA nd a
COMMUNICATIONS s CTO

DE CG

R 9523172 JAN 78
FM - CHICAGO (62/7385)
TO DIRECTOR (/62-117298) ROUTINE
BT
EFTO ;
ATTENTION CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION
USE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA). BUDED JANUARY

13, 1978. gi .

REBUTEL , DECEMBER 27, 1977. ;

C1A) MURKIN INVESTIGATION FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER,
CHICAGO 44-1114.

B) CHICAGO CASE AGENT RENE J. DU MAINE ASSIGNED TO
ASAC SQUAD AS RELIEF SUPERVISOR - BANK ROBBERY COORDINATOR.

(2)A) (1) FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER CHICAGO 1609-35356,

(2) TITLE MARTIN LUTHER KING, he: kc. La- 19 2Go- 4/8

(3) & REVIEW OF THIS FILE REFLECTS THE FOLLOWING AGENTS

WERE CASE AGENTS IN THIS INVESTIGATION ON THE DATES INDI CAZED 3 31 1978
JANUARY 7, 1965, CLAY M. BRADY, RUC JANUARY 24, 1965, wee

3,
whet kod Uh yenen

Sn SS AXES... = : j Tf
. : —e__coptes made 13 q MAT: A, °
ifs efit teaenatl fy ond
l % in yo” forreviewa FBIHQ by ‘ .
8 FEB 14. 1978 HSCA rez, request.

(See Bufiie #62~117290)



<p e e lee
PAGE Two CG 62-7385 EFTO
REOPENED JANUARY 25, 1965 TO ROBERT F. BARRY, CLOSED MARCH 16,
1965, REOPENED MARCH 25, 1965 TO WILLIAM J. WHITE, RUC JULY
16, 1965, REOPENED JULY 19, 1965 TO CLAY M. BRADY, RUC AUGUST
2, 1965, REOPENED AUGUST 11, 1965 TO JOSEPH C. STANLEY, CLOSED
AUGUST 27, 1965, REOPENED SEPTEMBER 13, 1965 TO R. L. STROMBERG,
RUC SEPTEMBER 24, 1965, REOPENED OCTOBER 7, 1965 TO CLAY M.
EFRADY, REASSIGNED NOVEMBER 22, 1965 TO JOSEPH C. STANLEY WHO
CONTINUED AS CASE AGENT UNTIL AFTER THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN
LUTHER KING, JR. IN 1968. THIS CASE WAS MAINTAINED ON SECURITY
SQUAD NUMBER 5. THE NATURE OF THE ABOVE CASE AGENTS" ASSIGNMENT
PRIOR TO THEIR INVOLVEMENT IN THE MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR, SM - C
7 INVESTIGATION IS NOT AVAILABLE IN CHICAGO, WITH THE EXCEPTION OF

SA JOSEPH C. STANLEY, WHO WAS CARRIED AS A RELIEF SUPERVISOR FOR
SECURITY SQUAD NUMBER 5. THE NATURE OF SA STANLEY'S WORK IS
NOT AVAILABLE IN CHICAGO.

(2) @) (1) FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER CHICAGO 1295-16238,

(2) TITLE: COMINFILE, SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP
CONFERENCE (SCLC), IS - C.

(3) A REVIEW OF THIS FILE REFLECTS THE CASE WAS ASSIGNED

TO SA JOHN P. O'BRIEN, UNTIL OCTOBER 12, 1965, WHEN IT WAS



oe . r} 6 mee

PAGE THREE cg 62+7385 EF TO

REASSIGNED TO SA JOSEPH C. STANLEY THROUGH 1968. SA STANLEY
WAS CARRIED AS A RELIEF SUPERVISOR FOR SECURITY SQUAD NUMBER 5
UNTIL FEBRUARY, 1968 WHEN HE WAS DELETED. THE EXACT NATURE

OF SA STANLEY'S WORK IS NOT AVAILABLE IN CHICAGO.

(2) (C) (1) FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER CHICAGO !9@~-32864.

. “(2) TITLE: COMMUNIST PARTY, USA, COUNTERINTELLIGENCE
PROGRAM, IS - C.

(3) A REVIEWW OF THIS FILE REFLECTS THE FOLLOWING AGENTS
WERE CASE AGENTS IN THIS INVESTIGATION:

HERBERT K. STALLINGS UNTIL APRIL 22, 1965, REASSIGNED TO
GENE E. ARNOLD UNTIL APRIL 27, 1967, REASSIGNED TO ROBERT 0.
MURPHY THROUGH 1968. ALL COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS WERE
MAINTAINED ON SECURITY SQUAD NUMBER 2. THE SECTION, SQUAD OF
ASSIGNMENT, AND THE NATURE OF THE ABOVE AGENTS" ASSIGNMENT
| IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO THEIR INVOLVEMENT IN THIS INVESTIGATION
IS NOT AVAILABLE IN CHICAGO.

(2) @) A REVIEW OF ALL OTHER COINTELPRO INVESTIGATIONS
CONDUCTED BY CHICAGO FAILS TO INDICATE MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
THE SQLC WERE EVER MENTIONED IN THESE FILES OR TARGETS UNDER
THESE PROGRAMS,

. BT

55051 DocId:32989745 Page 29


(outs sYoxes, om0, cHamnnatt @ >
1 DEVIN, Ot
7 A in Fig zest a
th en r

Select Commitice on Assassinations

(202) 225.4625 "OE. House of Representatives
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
2 / Y . : WASHINGYON, D.C, 20815
L/3t/ 78 ; January 26; 1978

ERDERAL GOVEESSIONE
The Nonorable Griffin B. Bell
Attorney General of the United States
Department of Justice
Washington, D. C. 20530

+ Attention: Robert L. Keuch
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with this Committee's investigation of
the circumstances surrounding the assassination of Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jdx., we would appreciate your assistance in
obtaining access to any files or records in the possession
of the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, relating to the individuals and organizations

oted peters

A, With respect to the’ Drug Enforcement Administration: é

I) :Charies Joseph. Stein
: Date of Birth: 5/11/29 ‘ : 7
FBI Number: 881-534-B —

2) Anthony Charles DeCarvelho : q
Born: 1921
Residence: New Orleans

B. With respect to the Federal Bureau of Investigation:

1) Jack Brown i
Chattanooga, Tennessee bA-M72P 0

2) Lester recs - - REO. 13 62-9292 = codes

Date of Birth 2/23/45

S.S.Ne: iaeneEC 7
2165 or 2155 Clarksdale ~ 23 FEB 2 1978
Memphis, Tennessee

——e_soemm enomn f

REAT AS 5) wuntex pitts o'pell +
OC? 1EéINGT New Orleans, Louisiana
Bo FERS soma : a \g
* : : ;

_NW 55051 poorhi:32989749,. Page 30



: ~
The Honox abti@rircin B. Bell. e@
- January 26, 18 rs, 7

‘Page 2

_4)  Baxnest Donnell
Denham Springs, Louisiana

5) Robert DePugh, Norborne, Missouri
js Head of the Minutemen organization

6) Sidney Barnes
* 1378 East Riviera Drive
Nobile, Alabama (1968)

7) “Maxey Ted" :
New Orleans, Louisiana

8) Eddie Sopcjack :
Date of Birth: is
FBI Number: 186-485A

9) Whomas Tartvants |

10) Samuel Caccamechi
Memphis, Tennessee

11) Robert Hood Strader
‘Lexington, Illinois -

12) Raymond Starhs
King David Apartments, apt. 1
2816 David Drive
Metairie, Louisiana (1968)

“13) Jerome Conforto
New Orleans, Louisiana

14) Joseph Conforto
New Orleans, Louisiana (now deceased)

15) Leonard Scott DelMonte
1229 North Bronson Street
Los. Angeles, California

16). Allan -O. Thompson
Date of Birth: 12/25/13

17) Dx. Russell C. Nadley
Date of Birth: 8/18/09
96 Moscoy Road
Monte Rio, California

BPocla: 335NS749 “Pdge“S1 0 Te



The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

January 26, 1978

Fage 3
- 18)
19)

20)

21)
22)

23)

26)
27)
28)

29)

30)

NW 55051 Doold:32989749

James E. Morrison

_ Los Angeles, California

Dr. Mark O. Freeman
Beverly Hills, California

Charles Calvin Bookman
Date of Birth: 9/6/13
FBI Number: 892-355

Rodney Arvidson

- Date of Birth: 1/19/23

Post Office Box 2820
Long Beach, California

Tomas Reyes Lau
Date of Birth: 10/5/23
2047 Lemoyne

Los Angeles, California

Roy Emory Hargraves

“Bl Monte, California

Raymond M. Murphy, aka "Fido"
Los Angeles, California

Lee Wilkinson
Los Angeles, California

Roman Kohnke
Los Angeles, California

Paul Lyon
Los Angeles, California

Jeri Salkin
Los Angeles, California

Ronald G. Hewitson
Garden Grove, California

Pat Olson
Date of Birth: 7/21/42
Quantico, Virginia

Page 32



. | @

The Nonorable Griffin B, Bell
January 26, 1978

Page 4
31)

32)

33)

34)

35)

36)

37)
38)
39)
40),
42)

42)
43)

NW 55051 Docld:32989749

Robert Taylor, aka Bob Taylor
Los Angeles, California

Ronald Dennino
aka Ronald Gerald-Dennino

_ Inmate at California State Prison

at San Quentin (1967 - 1968)

Richard Gonzales
Los Angeles, California

Roderic Burns Duff

Monrovia, California

1968 President of Los Angeles ieee
_ Of Citizens Council of America

R. J. Weiler
Los Angeles, California

Elizabeth Ann De .Rouen

. Date of Birth: 2/17/43

SSN:

Los Angeles, California

Debbie Gold

Les Angeles, California

* David Gregory

Buena Park, California

Rev. xavier von Koss
Hermora Beach, California

Robert Harold Gray
Los Angeles, California

Robert Keeley
Los Angeles, California

William K. Shearer

aka Bill Shearer

3166 Palm

Lemmon Grove, California

Robert Walters
Los. Angeles, California

Page 33



Page 5

44)

46)

47)

| 48)

50)

%\ "ane Honorable Griffin B., Bell
danuary 26, 1978

45)

49),

George Manum
Los Angeles, California

Robert J. Roe
Beverly Hills, California

Pamela Dillon
Los Angeles, California

Frank Marullo
New Orleans, Louisiana

Subfiles and/or investigative reports on
Ku Kiux Klan for the cities of Jacksonville

and Miami, Florida for the period 1966

through 1968.

Subfiles and/or investigative reports on
the following organizations for the period

“1966 through 1968 for the cities of New

Orleans, Louisiana; Birmingham, Alabama;

- Memphis, Tennessee; Chicago, Illinois;

Atlanta, Georgia; Los Angeles, California;

_and the State of Mississippi:

a) Black Panthers

b) Black Muslims

ec) American Nazi Party -

da) a) tudent Nonviolent Coordinating Committee

Subfiles and/or investigative reports for
the period 1966 ~ 1968 for the following
organizations:

a)’ Liberty Lobby
b) The Sword
c) The Fiery Cross
a) The White Camelia
e) Whe Silver Dollar Group

Your prompt cooperation will be most appreciated.

o

pOinca
_ “ec

NW 55051 Docld: 32989749
L oe

Very truly yours,

Ah (lobes Labs.

G. Robert Blakey
Chief Counsel and Dixector

Danny Coulson
Page 34



1/18/78

” AIRTEL

Seauee TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)
aaer es

FROM, 2 ACTING LEGAT, LONDON (62-604) °.
Cad Shear lento 7 r8 on SSAS5/ vr {10S
SUBJECT: JAMES EARL RAY, aka;
ET AL

CONSPIRACY TO VIOLATE UNLAWFUL
FLIGHT TO AVOID CONFINEMENT ~- ESCAPE

ReLONlet 11/16/77.

Enclosed for information is a copy of an incoming
telegram the American Embassy, London, received from
Department of State on 1/14/78, and copy of Legat, London
letter to the British Home Office dated 1/18/78.

Further pertinent information will be furnished
when available.

“[rosed

C2 Bureau (Encs. 2) iN

u 1 - Foreign Liaison Unit ~
1 - London ion

‘ RAK:ejg - 7)

} (4)

\V

ALO OF “

Ga-H17= YO ~ —
AC SSce8pap .

“J FEB @ 1978 <

ens ceases

wt Rewros :
HOFER LO Te ~ crass SEPA

55051 DocId:32989745 Page 35



TTED STATES | oe

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer'o ; ce Ace petted ret rte
7 pe eee noO sa tt * Grosvenor Square
Your Ref.: i London, W1A 1AE

January 18, 1978

Mr. G. L. ‘Angel :
British Home Office
G-4 Division

Queen Anne's Gate
London, S.W. 1

‘Rer Request from House Select Comittee on
Assassinations to Meet with
Police Authorities :

Dear Mr. angel: 7

H a .

1 By: way of background, the House Select Committee

{ on Assassinations, . -as authorized by the U. S. House of
-Representatives, is investigating the circumstances surround-
ing the murders. of President J. F. Kennedy and Dr. Martin

I: Luther King, Jr. y :

The Chief Counsel and Staff Director requested con-
tact be made with appropriate officials in the British Govern~
officials who were involved in the arrest. of James Earl Ray
in London on June 8, 1968.

‘Assistant Legal Attache Dennis Dickson had contact
with you on December 6, 1977, regarding this matter. At that
i time ,you requested the following:
a) - “Purpose or scope of Anquiry ;,

‘ B) | ‘Names of individuals “to be interviewed and
* . yeasons therefor;

\ A Docld:32989749 Page, 36 . otal TA 0 i : woes os



db

Lneseosr-meura:32989749 Page. 37 i 7 aa SESUEESEEsEGe NRsEnEEa!

‘British Government officials in London to pro’

i Cc) Intended use of results of inquiry, i.e.,

"public hearings, etc., it being noted that

any records maintained by the British police

would be as the result of an official inquiry

and this would normally be available for police

‘ use only, unless otherwise exempted by the
British Government.

The Select Committee responded that due to the
brevity of the 95th Congress, it was most important that
representatives of the Select Committee be allowed to meet
with appropriate members of New Scotland Yard who are
knowledgeable about the KING-RAY investigation. The Com-
mittee advised they would be happy to meet per: nally with
@ answers
to the issues forwarded to them for clarification arid
elucidation.

I would be most appreciative if you would adyise
if this situation is agreeable *to you.

Sincerely,

Dennis R. Dickson
Acting Legal Attache



ue ann Et 14 10
a # ne SES: RTE

NNNNVV — FHG @83EHV 219
RR RUDTC
—FDE RUEHC #0886 9140951

“SR 14922 JAN 78

s=FM SECSTATE VASHDC

‘TO AMEMBASSY LONDON 300
iBT.

we

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE STATE o1aess

E.0. 11652 N/A

TAGS PINR, PDIP, ue :

: SUBJE CT REQUEST FROM HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINA-
TIONS TO MEET WITH BRITISH ee AUTHORITIES

RE: LONDON 2@%@3: -

‘ASSISTANT SECRETARY BENNET “yas RECEIVED THE FOLLOWING LET- -

TER FROM G. ROBERT BLAKEY , CHIEF COUNSEL ‘AND DIRECTOR , SE-

7 pean COMMITTEE ON ASSASSIHATIONS + QUOTE + : "DEAR MR. SECRE-
Yi Hs

AWANY THANKS FOR YOUR LETTER OF DECEMBER 9, 1977 ENCLOSING A
TELEGRAM FROM AMBASSADOR BREWSTER.

réS YOU KNOW, THE LIFE OF THE SELECT COMMITTEE Is LiniTep | TO

THE LIFE OF THE 95TH CONGRESS. IT IS: THEREFORE IMPERATIVE ‘.
THAT REPRESENTATIVES OF THE SELECT COMMITTEE BE ALLOWED TO

MEET ,AT THE EARLIEST POSSIBLE MOMENT , WITH RESPONSIBLE MEM - /
BERS OF NEW SCOTLAND YARD WHO ARE KNOWLED GEABLE ‘ABOUT ITS
PARTICIPATION IN. THE INVESTIGATION INTO THE DEATH OF DR.

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.» THE RESULTING CAPTURE OF JAMES : :
MIEARL RAY IN LONDON “oN JUNE 8, 1968 AND ANY FURTHER INVESTI-
mr IGATION FOLLOWING HIS CAPTURE. WE WILL BE HAPPY TO MEET WiTH

(THOSE: REPRESENTATIVES IN GREAT BRITAIN TO PROVIDE ANSWERS
TO‘THE QUESTIONS RAISED BY AMBASSADOR BREWSTER."S TELEGRAM.

AGAIN, WE EMPHASIZE THAT TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE AND WOULD
JAPPRECIATE YOUR ARRANGING FOR SUCH A MEETING aS SOON. As
A POSSIBLE. VERY TRULY YOURS, G, ROBERT BLAKEY,” END QUOTE.

Se loan & EMRASSY ASCERTAEN WHETHER THE BRITISH AUTHORITIES WILL
Pienostat |

: ¥ -_
NW 55051 Docld:32989749 Page Moe Ode WI290— hii tet ~



—— ee AN - INTERVIEW BETWEEN MEMEERS OF THE STAFF OF THE

SELECT COMMITEEE AND” APPROPRIATE OFFICTAl@™ WHO PARTICIPATED
a ar 1 om” MENTIONED IN BLAgsy LETTER AND
ADVISE US @ FARCE : ies

~ ey

LIRVTED SFFIGIAL ge
| ;
i

9749 Page 39



waa ib x bani 7
4 7 Diino, 4°
" bed eait 4 “3 oS perros
NW 55051 DocId:32989749 Page 40 7

Ds Ns
QC; Refevence is made to letter to the Attorney General

Assistant Attorney General VERNMERT 7
Criminal Division oe January 25, 1978
Attention: Hr. Robert L. Keuch

Director, FBI FEDERAL GOVERNESS 1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Div.

(Attn: Mr. Coulson)
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

UT STHOUSE“OF “REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated
December 13, 1977, which requested, in connection with the
HSCA's investigation into the assassination of Martin Luther
King, Jr., certain information concerning identities of FBI
agents assigned to the FBI's assassination investigation and
to counterintelligence efforts. against King.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum
in response to the above request. It is requested that. you
furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

Enclosures ~ 2

My 1 - Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure) Li
,

Otte :sas :
; app? SEE NOTE PAGE TWO a

yd

-2_ENCLOSURE

Assoc. Dir. = a 14
Dep. AD Adn.—

Dep. AD Inv. —

Exh RECs. 13 br- 119 25

g a

2 2 4978
Yr) 0 9 FEB x
x) ad
-_ —

Ss i:

aS5 spbF E Bt * pais?
Telephorie Rm. —
Director's See'y_— MAIL ROOM (7)

TELETYPE UNIT [)



<a a

t NW 55051

-and Director, HSCA, has advised SA D. 0. Coulson of Legal:

_that, in absence of ah overriding need "to do otherwise, the HSCA

Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division
Attention: Mr. Robert Ls: Keuch

NOTE: By teletype dated 12/27/77, field offices designated
by the HSCA were advised of the contents of the HSCA letter
of 12/13/77. Responses have been received. Rather than
incorporate the voluminous results into a letter to the
Committee, it is more practical to make available for HSCA
access at FBIHQ incoming field office teletypes.

Tt should be noted that, under current operating
procedures existing between the Department of Justice and the
HSCA, disclosure of these agents'identities to the HSCA can-
not be prevented. However, G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel

Liaison and Gongressional Affairs Unit, Legal. Counsel Division,
will not publish the names of any agent personnel below the
position of section chief. This policy would follow precedent

of the Senate Select Committéé on Intelligence’ which issued its
report in 1976.

Hees

DocId:32989749 Page 41



1 - Mr. Foster
1 - Legal Counsel Div.
(Attn: Mr. Coulson)

January 25, 1978

| HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE. OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General
from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated
December 13, 1977, which requested, in connection with the
HSCAts investigation into the assassination of Martin Luther
King, Jr., certain information concerning identities of FBI
agents assigned to the FBI's assassination investigation and
to counterintelligence efforts. against King.

In response to the above request, the following
information is submitted:

i On December 19, 1977, Mr. Robert L. Keuch, Deputy
Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, advised that
the Department of Justice would respond to Part A, Items 1
and 2 and Part B, Items 1 and 2, of the above request.

Regarding Part A, Item 3 and Part B, Item 3, the
FBI field offices designated by the HSCA were requested to
sauens provide the information desired by the HSCA. Responses from
. these field offices have been received and copies of these
documents are available for HSCA access at FBI Headquarters.

With respect to Part A, Item 4, a review of FBI
Headquarters indices disclosed no memoranda, records; documents
and news releases generated by the FBI in connection with the
MURKIN investigation, other than that contained in the MURKIN
file, which has already been made available to the HSCA..’

Asst, Dins

"= (6) pad SEE NOTE PAGE TWO
‘tr

Gim ine ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL,
Fin, & Pes DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH, AND ONE SENT TO OBFICE

—OF LEGISLATIVE /AFFIARS .
i puree seeaaer ee eee

ies BEGE
ENCLOSURE
; we aff!
pies sey in © _sTSLetype unit 2) G 2- /19 2Go ft /

NW 55051 DoclId:32989749 Page 42

‘.



Is
iy

:

House Select Committee on Assassinations

In response to Part B, Item 4, 4¢ should be noted
that USCA request of November 30, 1977, asked for all PBI
material pertaining to Martin Luther King, Jr., and the Southern
Christien Leadership Conference (SCLO) in the FBI's Counter~
intelligence Program (COINTELPRO) file. Ly letter dated
January 11, 1978, you were advised that representatives of the
HSCA agreed to limit its request te COINPELPRO files involving
the Communist Party USA and Black Nationalist-Nate Groups and to
limit the period of ISCA interest from January 1, 1967, to Nay 1,
1968. €n January 23, 1978, Staff Attorney Michel Dberhardt
reiterated that the ESCA's interest is that period rather than
the years 1965-1968 as set forth in the request of December 13,
1977. The above-mentioned COINTZLPRO files and files of the
Hing and SCLC security Investigations from January 1, 1967, to
Hay 1, 1968, havé been prepared for HECA access. Therefore,
based on knowledge of personnel of the Congressional Inquiry
Unit processing SCA requests regarding King, all material at FST
Headquarters, which may contain COLNTELPRO-type activities
against King and CcL¢ during the period January 1; 1967, to
Hay 1, 1968, has been madé available to the EECA.

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney Géneral,
Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 1/25/78,
captioned, "House Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S, House
of Representatives (HSCA).." :

bs 55051 Docid:32989749 Page 43 ~ Bo.


ours sToXE9, ono, cHAIRMATE
‘nicwanoso
2 wiatee ke

ve dia Ff : : maces ae bd
oC ell

ee LL AR ee i ir FReHECEeH

‘The Honorable Griffin:'B. Bell :
Attorney General of the. United States
Department of Justice

Washington, D..€. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General: 5 te
ra : In connection with the investigation by. this Committee
‘ . into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jx., it is requested
. that the Department of Justice and the Federal paeee of
‘Investigation provide the following: -

“A. MURKIN investigation

lo list of all Department of Justice attorneys who
participated in any way in the direction or management of
. the,.MURKIN investigation and’ the Division and Section within
a the Department of Justice where these attorneys were then
assigned; : ry

2. Copies of all memoranda, records, documents, and~
news releases generated by the Department of Justice in
| connection with, MURKIN investigation exclusive of what is.
: contained in the MURKIN file already provided to the Committee;

‘ 3. A list of the field office case agents assigned to
the MURKIN investigation for the following cities, with a’
designation as to the nature of each agent! 5 assignment
immediately prior to his involvement in the MURKIN Heseae

_ gation: .
Atlanta 7 Merphis
* Chicago New Orleans
St. Louis. Los Angeles
Birmingham : Miami

This information should include the type of division, section
and squad to which each case agent was assigned. _ :
Met Ad AAGlOD ' i
Hasl7e Ene-2) - - (2- 1172-92 yr
: UTA. Bag
| NW 55052 | pdetatstat bre, Youve 4a: ENCLOSURE



° 4, Cops of all memoranda, zoos. documents and :
: “ news releases’ generated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation -
in connection with the MURKIN investigation exclusive of
what is contained in the MURKIN. file alfeady provided to
the Committee.

B. ‘COINTELPRO

1. A list of all Department of Justice attorneys who
were in receipt of any information concerning. the COINTELPRO
activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation as such*
were directed at Dr. King or sia SCLC eae the ecco 1965
through 1968.

2. Copies of all menoranaat records and documents
. generated by the Department of’ Justice in connection with. the
COINTELPRO activities of the FBI as such were directed at
Dr. King or the SCLC during the period | 1965. through. 1968.

3. A list of the field office case agents assigned to
the COINTELPRO efforts directed at Dr. King or the SCLC during
"1965 to 1968 from the following “cities, with a -designation
as to the nature _ each agent \s eee assignment during.
that peridd:'' ~

Atlanta ; Memphis : Louisville

Chicago | “+ * New Orleans

St. Louis |. Los Angeles enesae aeers

Birmingham . : Miami Csaunee .
| a This information should include the type of division, section

and squad to which each case agent was assigned.

4. Copies of all memoranda, records and document's
generated by the FBI in connection with the COINTELPRO efforts
directed at Dr. King or the SCLC during the period 1965 to

, 1968 which are not coritained in the files requested by
Committee letter dated November 30, 1977.

Your prompt attention to this matter -will be greatly
appreciated.
au truly yours, 7
; c. Rober i Blakey ,
Chief Counsel and pixector
GRB:mea :
cc Mr. Danny O. Coulson
'

bee 55051 DocId:32989749 Page 45 : : : i |



m_RaUts STOKES, M0, CHAD fee oo
rensnoedn raven, ne. ay fom
. Bap teens com, Deda ee
jones neon

Baswrven, mic,
Select Committee on Assassinations Bus ry
GD. House of Representatives v| 29 | 1

RODERT W. EDGAR, PAL

(202) 225-4628
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

. WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

January 17, 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell
() Attorney General of the United States

Départment of Justice
Washington, D. C. .20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch
Deputy Assistant Attorney General.
Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation of the House
Select Committee on Assassinations into the death of Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr., it would be appreciated if you could
‘make available to the Committee staff access’ to the following:

1. All files, materials and information including,
but not limited to, intelligence and security

7 materials relating to the following organiza-

a : tions active in California for 1967-1969:

a) John Birch Society : Via
b) American Independent Party
: c) Géorge Wallace Campaign

2. All files, materials and information, including,
but not limited to, intelligence, surveillance
and security materials for 1967-1968 pertaining
to Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and his activi-
ties in California.

Your prompt attention to the cogoage will be greatly

appreciated. a eerie a ~ $73

: REC-G5
TREAT 48 rect tury, _ SB RECORSES—
ORIGINAL > i S JAN 37
¢ WA wheat BE 0 L 1978

‘ : G. Robert Blakey . =
Chief Counsel and Director
fens : LAr TAF OD
cc: Danny O. Coulson

5% FEBY 4978 ; ; peg oF ay

Nw 55051 aeenaa 69749 Page 46
i



a

Assistant Attorney General

Fe gap

Criminal Division October
Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch 1- vr

> 1 - Mr.
) Director, FBI low.
| 6 . 1 - Mr.
| () HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS 1 - Mr.
: U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA) 7 Mr.
pce

31, 1977

Monahan
Peelman
Foster.
McGirl /
Mintz (Attn:
Coulson)

‘

Reference 48 made to a letter dated October 20, 1977,°

to Robert L. Keuch, Deputy Assistant. Attorney General,
Criminal Division, from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel
Director, HSCA.

Division record relative to William. Herman Jackson.

and deletions.
Room 8988 of the J. Edgar Hoover Building.

which responds to this HSCA request. You are requested
furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

nelosures = 3

8
ig

f

JTM:sas.

i

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

| ete, Dit; ae
Dep. AD Adm. —
Dope AD Inv

ae at APPROVEDE Adm. Serv_
ras Grim, Inv
y Director. Fin, & Pers.

Ident________
Intell,
Laboratory__.

Assoc. Dir. -
Dep. AD aan Ee
Dap, AD viata
ef

TELETYPE unit C) -
Page 47

2, NW 55051 DocIa: 32989743

exis ™b2- /12a72— 2
| ;

and

This letter requests all information in
possession of the FBI to include the current FBI Identification

Based on information furnished by the Committee,
retrievable information identifiable with Jackson has been
prepared for Committee access subject to the usual excisions
This material is available to the Committee in

i

—_—

Enclosed are original and two copies of a memorandum

to,

64
ecaneoett :

GA

Plat, & tnsp_

Rec, Bigat—
‘Tech. Ser

Training____
Poblic Affs. G(f

* Feros

wt,


Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division
Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: This responds to a reduest by HSCA for information
contained in the Bureau's files relative to William Herman
Jackson. This matter has been coordinated with the Legal.
Liaison and Congressional Affairs Unit, Legal Counsel Division,
and retrievable documents in FBI Headquarters files, which are
identifiable with Jackson, have been organized into folders for
the Committee's access and are maintained -in the Congressional
Inquiry Unit's space, Room 8988.

Documents retrieved from FBI Headquarters files include
Jackson's current ident record, the results of an FBI investigation
wherein Jackson was one of four subjects - captioned
"Leslie Atkisons, aka, Et Al; Miscellaneous - Falsely Making
or Forging Naval, Military or Official Pass," two references re
a Foreign Police Cooperation Matter and two references re a
Perjury Matter.

NW 55051 DocId:32989749 Page 48



1 - Mr. Monahari ners
* : 1 - Mr. Peelman
1- Mr. Foster
1 - Mr. MceGirl
1 - Mr. Mintz (Attn:

October 31, 1977 Mr. Coulson)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

RE: OCTOBER 20, 1977, REQUEST oF HSCA FOR 7
INFORMATION IN POSSESSION OF THE FBI TO
INCLUDE A CURRENT PBI IDENTIFICATION

_ DIVISION RECORD RELATIVE TO
‘WELLIAM HERMAN: JACKSON.

This constitutes a complete response to the .
October 20, 1977, letter of G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel
and Director, HSCA.

Chief Counsel Blakey requested all FBI information
as well as a current FBI Identification Division. record
relative to William Herman Jackson.

Utilizing identifying data for Jackson furnished by
the HSCA, retriévable information in FBI Headquarters files
identifiable with Jackson has been prepared for the Committee! s:

ecess subject. to the usual excisions and deletions.

TMH sas 9)

ORIGINAL AND TWO SENT TO. MR. ROBERT L.' KEUCH, DEPUTY ASSISTANT
ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL DIVISION.

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General, vey
Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 10/31/77,
captioned, “House Select Committee on Assassinations , U. Ss.

House of Representatives (HSCA).

Assoc. Di. ———

APPROVEDS

Legal Cox
Plan. & Insp, 12
“Director.

le Rec. -Mgnti—
Assoc. Dir iti._— Spoo, Inv. Ww -
Dep, AD At = Tech. .Servs___-_
Dep. AD: Inv; Laboratory____.. Tralning___
Public Affs. O{ff__—-

dee GR Pa4— 167
tye MAIL ROOM 1 7" ENCHOSUR

Publte Afis,
Telephone

Directors Sy = TELETYPE UNIT [] ——~
°55051 DocId:32989749 Page 49

FBI/DOS



 gpelect’ Committee on As¢ -sinations

a: &. Mouse of Representatives
3331 HOUSE OFFICE. BUILDING, ANNEX 2. - i
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

- October 20, 1977

- Rokert L. Keuch, Esq.
* . Deputy Assistant Attorney General,
Criminal Division, Room 2113
. © Department of Justice 7
+ Washington, D. C. . 20530."

Dear. Mr. Keuch:

' The Select committee % ‘on Assassinations would apprec te .
any and all information as well. as a current FBI Identifi~

geiee Cation Division record check relative.to William Herman
siete iececeeatid FBI deniers ‘D.O.B. 11/24/26. :
i ei ; eeact mS Very. truly 3 yours, ~ : ie
: PEreeteueenee os ni oe 6G neeeee Blakey .-—
: Weees 7 : Chief ‘Counsel a Diréctor
GRB/ENE/nae oe Eee al staee
“ees Mr. Danny 0. Coulson
Special Agent os a
. Federal Bureau.of Investigation
if . G. Edgar.Hoover Building -
10th and Constitution, pasta NeW,
Room °3659
. Washington, De. Ce 20530 7
Getter RAG/CO |
\o-31-79

atm ne Gre)



>

Haaser coals : SHEE ESE Cet 1 - Mr. Long - Eni.
TAR - aa 1 - Mr. Foster - EXc.
fepERAL : Peed I -. Mr. Mintz - Enc.
2- Mr. Hotis - Enc.
The Deputy Attorney General : “" + Besenber 29, 1977

Director, FBI
Es (os SELECT COMMTTTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS ; ’

In accordance with Attorney General Order
~~, 116-86, this memorandum advises: that Special agent. Ni
\ William FP, Kusch was interviewed on Hoverber 16, 1977. a
i { A memorandum Setting forth Mr. Kusch's agcount of this -
J } interview is enclosed for your information. ‘

} ghetosure

net

1 - Assistant Attorney General ~ Enclosure
Criminal Division
Attn: Robert Keuch

1 - Personnel. file - William F. Kusch — Enclosure

Stay pec6s & 2-1/7

:
'
I
i
t

d
3

ae et

hpphoveD: "FT Adm, Serv Legal ain
: Grime Inv. Plan. & ney

Director_____— in, & Pers—_
Assoc, Bir Ident ae
Bop. AD KER GAD. nti __—

Beg. AD Inve>_ Laboratory _—_—_— tesidhg
aa 2" Public Atfs. Off——.

porn EOD

had)

AR

‘MAIL ROOM ¢fecbtyPe unit EI] DAES
ravroos ©

NwW_55051 _ _DocId:32989749 Page 51; | i: .
nel



62-117290-408 DOC: ldr 12/29/77 a :

The Deputy Attorney General HSCA
SHOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON
ASSASSINATIONS

In accordance with Attorney Generel Order 116-56
this memorandum advises that Special Agent §
William F, Kusch was interviewed on 11/16/77. A
memorandum setting forth Mr. Kusch's account of
this interview is enclosed for your information. :

ED IN’ RILE:| . 1:

COPY OF ABSTRACT FOR THIS
LOCATED,;)

“OTN LISU OFTHE MATL WHIC



 ormoue ron. ag SI
" MaviubR2 EDITION . e
2% OSAFPMA (a CFR) 101-118 7 itn,
4 ) et wes
ERI

UNITED STATES Gi NMENT a ye
Memorandum ; :

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290) pate: 12/19/77

ie ATTN: OFFICE OF LEGAL ‘COUNSEL

SAC, PORTLAND (62-3144)

FROM oV/ }:
supyect: { ose SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)
() Enclosed herewith are five copies of an LHM relative -

to the interview of SA WILLIAM F. KUSCH, Portland Division, by
staff meinbers of ihe HSCA in Washington, B-C., on 11/16/77.

wi
GC Bureau (Encs. 5)"

2 Portland
WEK:ja
(4)

<a

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly, on the Payroll Savings Plan +
1_Docld:32989749 Page



» UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

Portland, Oregon
File No.

December 19, 1977

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

On November 16, 1977, SA William F. Kusch of the
Portland Division 6f €hé-Fédéral Bureau Of Investigation (FBI)
was interviewed at House Annex #2 in Washington, D.C., by Mr. Mark
Speiser and Mr. Peter Beeson, members of the House Select Committee
on Assassinations, investigating the assassination of Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr.

The interview with SA Kusch dealt with a period of
time SA Kusch was assigned to the New Orleans Division of the
FBI, specifically April, 1968. During April of 1968, SA Kusch,
along with numerous other Special Agents assigned to the New Orleans
Division, conducted many interviews with persons who had, or who
might have had, knowledge of the activities or contacts of James
Earl Ray during the period of time Ray, using the name Eric Galt,
was in New Orleans.

Specifically, SA Kusch was questioned regarding his
squad assignments in New Orleans, the identities of other squad
members, the identity of his supervisor, his Agent in charge and
his assistant Agent in charge at the time.

Further, SA Kusch was questioned relative to the
content of several interview report’ forms (FD 302s) concerning
interviews that he conducted and prepared appropriate FD 302s
in connection therewith, or FD 302s covering interviews that he
was a party to. House Select Committee on Assassinations members
exhibited said FD 302s to SA Kusch to refresh his memory.

House Select Committee members in essence apparently
desired SA Kusch to amplify or further expand on these interviews.

os

his eee ee Qt
SWANS * -QgnmoeqOe
This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your
agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency. sal : 1
cLgsuis afd
eT pager! i

55051 Docld:32989749 Page 54


HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS .

SA.Kusch pointed out that as a result of the passage of nine and
one-half years, for the most part he could not specifically recall
the persons interviewed. To specific questions regarding the
interviews, SA Kusch could only point out that if additional
questions had been asked of these persons interviewed at the time,
resulting in the receipt of any positive or pertinent information
regarding Galt, that information would have been duly recorded

on said FD. 302s.

Both Mr. Speiser and Mr. Beeson were cordial and SA
Kusch responded to their questions in a candid manner.

NW 55051 Docld:32989749 Page 55



ti - : e é . p : e ; :
ICERAL boveseesoen 7
Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

January 26, 1978
Attention: Mr. Robert’ L. Keuch 1 - Mr. Foster
Director, FBI . 1 - Legal Counsel Div.

(Attn: Mr. Coulson)

C) use SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

o

Reference As made to letter to. the Attorney General -
from G. Robert. Blgkey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated -
December 15, 19774. which, tn connéction with HSCA's investi~
gation into the assassination of Hartin Euther King, Jr.
requested information pertaining to FBI electronic. suveillance

of King and any other individual directly or indirectly

associated with the Southern Christian Leadership Conference.

r : Enelosed are an original and one copy ofa memorandun :
in response to the above request. It is requested that you |)
- furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA. i

Enclosures ~ 2 (Secret Material Enclosed) a

_1 ~ Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure) (Secret Material
be 4 7 Enclosed)

; JTA:sas

\ i (6) LOD SEE NOTE PAGE TWO-

a Hy \

hea pears ‘) Bry

: eLcees I.

| ‘s go L2-) Dagon Ye
I

23 JAN 31 1078

Se Ce oe)

Eis

JAN26 1978

!

1 a rh ea
yar" ,) Waar xp
_famveateo8-B Q FEB 6

Director's Sec'y— = MAIL ROOM (YJ TELETYPE UNIT C] * SS ppiypegs
NW AS86507 DocId:32989749 Page 56 ' a 7 ;



Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division
Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: Dates. and places of electronic surveillance of King
were compiled through file reviews conducted in connection with
previous law suits filed against the FBI by the Southern
Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) and a former SCLC officer and
aide to King, Bernard S. Lee. Although names of specific SCLC
affiliates were not provided by the HSCA in its request, ail
names are readily available to the Committee, which has
received access to our files concerning King and SCLC.

oe

W 55051 Doold:32989749. Page 57



1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Div.
(Attn: Mr. Coulson)

January 26, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General
from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, ESCA, dated
December 15, 1977, which requested information in connection
with the HSCA's investigation into the assassination of
Martin Luther King, Jr. This letter requested that the PBI
determine the dates and places of any and all electronic
surveillance of King and any other individual directly or
indirectly associated with the Southern Christian Leadership
Conference (SCLC). The Committee indicated it only desired
written confirmation as to the existence of such electronic
surveillance and the dates and places involved, with no
reference to the results of such surveillance.

In response to the above request, appropriate records
at FBI Headquarters were reviewed with the following results:

Microphone iSurveillances of King

Dates of Surveillance Location
Jatitiary 5+7, 1964 Willard Hotel, _
Washington, D. C.
January 27, 1964 Shroeder Hotel,
Milwaukee, Wisconsin
February 18-20, 1964 Hilton Hawaiian Village,
: Honolulu, Hawaii
February 20-21, 1964 Ambassador Hotel,
Los Angeles, California
February 22-24, 1964 Hyatt House Motel,
Los Angeles, California
March 19-20, 1964 | Statler Hotel,

Assoc. Die

Dep, DAS FEMAr Sas . (6) SEE NOTE PAGE FOUR

Dep. AD Inv.

aw.oh: ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

Adm. S

An SDT VISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH, & ONE SENT TO OFFICE
fi tPen-QOF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS «

Detroit, Michigan

Ident,

Classifie 437
Exempt from ‘S, Category 2
wy) Date of Decl ification ences antes

Public Affs, 01 pricosune 4
Pnlosee socal MaILRooM CJ = TELETYPE UNIT C1 oe / / ? 2490 = yo ye FQI/D03

NW 550514 DocId:32989749 Page 58



DocId:32989749 Page 59

House Select Committee on Assassinations

Dates of Surveillance
April 23-24, 1964
July 7-9, 1964
September 28, 1964 —
Semaary @2a1, 1965
January 20-31, 1965
March 29-31, 1965
May 12-13, 1965
October 1-15, 1965
October 28-30, 1965
November 29-30, 1965
January 22, 1966

fPelephone Surveiliances of King

Dates of Surveillance
August 22-27, 1964
Noverber 8, 1963 ~
April 30, 1965

April 24-26, 1964
duly 7-9, 1964

August 14, 1964 ~
Septenber 6 » 1964

Location

Senator Hotel,
Sacramento, California
Hyatt House Motel,

Los Angeles, California
Manager Hotel,
Savannah, Georgia
Park Sheraton Hotel,
Hew York City
Americana Hotel,

New York City

Park Sheraton Hotel,
New York City
Sheraton Atlantic Hotel,
Hew York City

Astor Hotel,

New York City

New York Hilton Hotel,
New Yorl: City
Americana Hotel,

Rew York City
Americana Hotel,

New York City

Location

Claridge Motel,

Atlantic City, New Jersey
Mertin Luther King's
residence

Hyatt House Hotel,

Los Angeles, California
Hyatt Rouse Hotel,

Los Angeles, California
Apartment 2B,

125 H. 72nd Street,

New York City



ee eb

Dates of Surveillance Location
October 23, 1963 ~ SCLC Offiee,
denuary 24, 1964 New York City
July 13-31, 1964 Room 1202,

14 EB. 4oth Street,
New York City
November 8, 1963 ~ SCLC Offiec,
June 21, 1966 Atlanta, Georgia

Th an effort to respond to that portion of the HSCA's
request coneerning existence or nonexistence of electronic
surveillance of individuals directly or indirectly associated
with the SCLC, personnel of the Congressional Inquiry Unit, FBI
Headquarters, familiar with certain aspects of the Bing, SCLC
and related files, compiled a list of individuals with the SCLC
for the approximate period January, 1962, throurh 1968. Aithoush
this list is not all inclusive due to the large number of persons
affiliated with the SCLC, an effort was made to include those
individuals in key positions and who wére most active in the
organization. Most of the individuels listed were identifiod
with the SCLC Headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia. Based on review
of appropriate records at FBI Headquarters. none of the helow-
listed individuals has been subject of electronic surveLllance

by the FBI:

Ralph Abernathy Thonas. G. Kilgore Gloria Fraction
Jessie Jackson. Dora MeDonald David Wallace
Dernard S. Lee Jess Gill

Hosea Willians yay Talker Carole Noover
James Oranre Loran Kearse . Albert Turner
Janes Level Stoney Cooks Frank Ditto

Andrew Young Pred 6. Bennett Cc. K. Steel
Valter Pauntroy Booker T. Bonner Samuel WilTians
Coretta Scott King envy Brownlee curtis Harris

Joun Rutherford Geiden Prinks 7 Cirillo A. HeSween
Willian Rutherford Joseph Lester Nenkerson Major Jones
Bernard Lafayette Samuel B. Vells Lawrence D. Reddick
Dorothy Cotten Benjamin Johnson I. M. Augustine

ad, f. Johnsen, Herbert V. Coulton Septima Clark
Josoph EB. Lovery Thonas Offenburger g. ¥. Togers, Jr.
Fred L. Shuttlesworth New Soong-Li - ce

Cordy T. Vivian James Lawson

Adele Kanter Lillian Hunter

a

NW 55051 DocId:32989749 Page 60 ; ~3B



ie

Nouse Select Committee on Assassinations

Records at FRI Headquarters disclosed that the
following individuals, formerly associated with the SCLC, were
subjects of electrofiie surveillance by the FBI (Sceret).

Stanicy David Levison
Clarence B. Jones
Bunter Pitts 0'De1l1
Bayard Rustin

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,
Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 1/26/78,
eaptioned, "House Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House
of Representatives (HSCA)."

NW 55051 DocId:32989749 Page 61



canting yn10
crew. ap EP ce, CONN,
Cuan EOE, MeO, 7
MAROLO 5. SAWYFR, MICH. rs ~

Select Conunittee on Assassinations

U.S, Bouse of Representatives
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
“4 WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

DECAS O77

ROSENT W. EOZAR, FAL

(202) 225-4524

fhe Honorable Griffin B. Bell
Attorney General of the United States
Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch FEE
7 Deputy Assistant Attorney General 7
4 Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney ‘General: ”

In connection with the’ investigation by this Committee
into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., it is
requested that the Federal Bureau of Investigation review
its files on electronic surveillance ‘and determine the
dates and places of any and all electronic surveillance of
Dr. King and any ether individual directly or indirectly
associated with the SCLC.

: At this time the Committee only desires a written
- confirmation as to, the existence of such electronic surveil-
lance-and the dates and places involved with no reference
to the results of such surveillance. :

Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly.
appreciated.

Very truly yours,

Met > ARE ICO Abo Coad

{f8 bl7e Ene-2) - G. Robert Blakey ;
SAUQ Chief Counsel and Director

1-004 Cone) = ; F
GRB:mek |” - 7 : :

cc: Mr. Danny O. Coulson

_ . G4
Ga-] 17090 — “4
ENGLOSURE

NW 55051 Docld:32989749" Page 62



FD:36 (Rev. 7-27-76)

(ax: : '
~ h S wer ' id
TRANSMIT VIA: | PRECEDENCE: « CLASSIFICATION: o
CO Teletype -f=y'Timediate :,, (TOP SECRET H i
CO Facsimile © Priority (SECRET H
C3 Airtel © Routine : (€ CONFIDENTIAL H
(EFTO H
(J CLEAR H
1
1

1/23/78

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)
ATTN: Records Management Division,
Congressional Inquiry Unit

+ Ya. SAC, SPRINGFIELD (62-2567) (RUC)
C/)  sussecr: Shouse senecn_commintEE. Teele
. ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA) VanLeKeae 7 et
A TE : wet dt Leben mene 3S "

Reurtel to SI, 1/19/78. eto JK

Enclosed for the Bureau is one photocopy of each
serial in the following Springfield Division main files:

(1) 157-1792, serials 1-85 (189 pages);
(2) 44-1120, serials 1-5 (10 pages);

QO

(3) 170-445, serials 1-23 (48 pages);

(4) 170-445A, serials 1-6 (11 pages).
Also enclosed for the Bureau is one” photocopy:
of the following serial in the following Springfield Division
file, reference identifiable with RICHARD GEPPERT:
(5) 157-1791, serial 23 (8 pages).
ADMINISTRATIVE DATA:

Numerous serials contained in these files have
been classified "Confidential". 57-129

Springfield file 157-1792 rial 82, is a correlation

memo showing GEPPERT was the subject NOL oleae ar Ye
> Bureau (62-117290) (Ene1 5) ENOLO omnes
- Springfield enaeea|

DJIC/pme
(3)

© JAN 26 1978

es comes

we os
eat

Per -

cP le
p gis x He
eran Cy

as ei
= pre
EK, 6 7 CF ae

2989749 Page 63

“Wumber) (Time) (7

Doe GPO : 1977 0 = 225-539



SI 62-2567

file 100-10245. This main file has been destroyed in accor-
| dance with the File Destruction Program. i

i DoclId:32989749 Page 64



+ BROGAS 131931

P 151931Z JAN 78 FeOR RRL BUREAU
FM BIRMINGHAM (66-22 80) (RU@MHURICATIONS SECTION

x TO DIRECTOR (62-117299) (PRIORITY) y Tech. Servs___._
Training
Public Ais, “Olfa.. —

C Felephone Raw.

DIVISION.
JOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS CHSCaA); BUDED

JANUARY 13, 1978,

DECEMBER 27, 1977.

TO HENRY S. SNOW (DECEASED). PRIOR TO MURKIN INVESTIGATION
Sa SNOW WAS ASSIGNED TO GENERAL CRIMINAL SQUAD AND CONDUCTED
GENERAL CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION.

: for reviey
(wt ap BBO by
ett ie “pocras3Bi ak HSCA re 12/13/77 request,
nw 5505r -pocia:apQsSi1s Page 65 - (See Bufile ¥62-117290)

Assoc. Dir.
Per. AD Adm
ep. AD Inv__,.
Asst. Dir.:__
Adm. Serv._3

Crim. Inv.__*.
inv

aay 13 2 36 PH ay , Fis § Pes |
é Se Intell_____
Laboratory.

Legal Coun
Plan. & Insp.

Ree. Mgnt

Spec. Inv. .

UF LNVESTIGATION

RE BUREAU TELETYPE TO ATLANTA AND OTHER OFFICES,
29 7 ;
RESPONSE TO QUESTION NO. ONE: MUYRKIN INVESTIGATION ASSIGNED a

yo

Exo d-

“ees OC aallZ2/ —|

23 JAN 26 1978



RaGE TWO BH 66-22 f

NW 55051 DoclId:32989749 Page 66

Ag

IN ANSWER TO QUESTION NO, TwO: THERE WERE NO COUNTER-

INTELLIGENCE EFFORTS BY BIRMINGHAM AGENTS AGAINST MARTIN LUTHER

KING OR THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE DURING THE
PERIOD OF 1965 THROUGH 1968,
THE FOLLOW ING WERE CASE AGENTS ASSIGNED TO SUBSTANTIVE

INVESTIGAT IONS OF MARTIN LUTHER KING: LAWRENCE GETTINGS,
PREVIOUSLY ASSIGNED TO SECURITY AND CRIMINAL SaQuaD AND CONDUCTED
THAT TYPE OF INVESTIGATION; MARVIN M. EUBANKS, PREVIOUSLY ASSIGNED
TO SECURITY SQUAD AND SECURITY INVESTIGATION.

THE FOLLOWING AGENTS WERE ASSIGNED TO INVESTIGATION OF

SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE:
WILL IAM PERRY (DECEASED), PREVIOUSLY ASSIGNED TO CRIMINAL
SQUAD AND WORK; COLEMAN D.. GEARY, III, PREVIOUSLY ASSIGNED TO
BOMBING MATTERS; LAWRENCE GETTINGS (SUPRA); MARVIN M. EUBANKS (SUPR
AND C. B. STANBERRY, PREVIOUSLY ASSIGNED TO SECURITY S@UAD AND ss
SECUR ITY INVEST IGAT IONS,
THE ABOVE INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED AFTER A REVIEW OF

BIRMINGHAM INDICES AND SUBSEQUENT FILE REVIEW.
BT


NW 55051

J Louis StqKES, O10, CHAIRMAN 7
ER, NAC saMUt wroio
FAUNTROY, D.C, stew MCKINNEY, CONN,
YVONNE DRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF, CHAT INE, NEDR.

TREAT 4S

teat oie . aw ee
5 FEB2 1978

DocId: 9749 Page 67 Vet a “ne |

ChmisrorHer 4, DoDD, CONN. MAROLD Sr SAWYER, B1CHs CT
Povo 3. Fina, nbs Select Committee oti assassinations.
ROBERT W, EDGAR, PAY OL ENE Tea
PAREORESH UWS. House of Representatives o« Us P “
: 3931 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515 : l / as

Pt coma JAN 201978

HAND DELIVER

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell
Attorney General of the United States
Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Attention: Mr..Robert L. Keuch :
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General: v4
‘i vst

By letter dated’ January 4, 1977 this Committee
kequested access to materials, Files; ‘memoranda and
miscellaneous items pertaining to. Gerold Frank in
connection with the investigation into the death of Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr. These matérials (94-63917) have
been reviewed by the staff, and it would be appreciated,
if the materials. could be prepared for delivery, along
with copies of the following additional items:

1) Section 78°
44-38861 - 5655
" 5654
5653

2): Section 84
44-38861 - 5942
rs

5943
" 5944
ud 5945
bl 5946
3) The MURKIN Legat tickler files for }j IO
a) London ll YO

b) Ottawa Ly SHEE G2-/19 29? =
eetce ae Log RECT9 ; — —_—
64-959 6 ot) gs

‘oo ee



The oe. Griffin B. Bell : aor
Page Two

JAN 20 1978

Additionally, it is requested that the Bureau begin
to prepare for delivery all files, memoranda and miscellaneous
items on William Bradford Huie for the years 1968 to the

present.
Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly
appreciated. i
Sincerely,
Sle > Rear
G. Robert Blakey
Chief Counsel and Director
GRB: gh}

cc: Danny O. Coulson

NW 55051 DocId:32989749 Page 68



se

Paste a Affe, Off

ee Ba, "'g8

Nw 55051

Assistant Attorney General

» |

Criminal Division PSIGRAL GOVESMIME = January 26, 1978

Attention: lr. Robert L. Keuch
Director, FBI

2)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Div.

(Attn: Mr. Coulson).

Reference 7s made to letter to the Attorney General
from, @. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated
December 9, 1977,“tihich, im connection With the HSCAts investi-
gation into the assassination of Martin iuther King, Jr.,
requested that former agent Robert Nichols be made available

for interview by the HSCA.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum
in response to the above request. It is requested that you
furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

Enclosures ~ 2

L ~ Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure) |
ay

‘STA: sas

(6) oY SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

Zo,

MAILED 5

JAN 2 6 1978

eo vi unit 1 os
Do: 2989749 Page 69 Pee

REC-7

(9-117 990-397

T JAN 2 4978



Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division
Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Atlanta Office has been in touch with him regarding the interview
and he is awaiting further contact for final interview arrangements.
These arrangements are handled informally by representatives

of the Legal Liaison and Congressional Affairs Unit and the

;
| 7 NOTE: Former. SA Nichols works and resides in Atlanta. The
:
| Congressional Inquiry Unit of FBIHQ.

NW 55951 DoolId:32989749 Page 70



ae ® ®

1- Mr. Foster | *
1 - Legal Counsel Div.
(Attn: Mr. Coulson)

January 26, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General
from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated
December 9, 1977, which, in connection with the HSCA's investi-
gation into the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., .
requested that former agent Robert Nichols be made available
for interview by the HSCA.

This memorandum 1s to confirm that former agent
Nichols has been cleared from his employment. agreement and is:
available for interview as needed by the HSCA. Arrangements
for interview can be made through contact with representatives
of the Legal Liaison and Congressional Affairs Unit and the
Congressional Inquiry Unit of FBI Headquarters.

dhe
TA:sas (6)
per

ORIGINAL AND ONE ‘SENT TQ ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH, AND ONE SENT TO
OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS. 5

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,
Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 1/26/78.
captioned, "House Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House
of Representatives (HSCA)."

Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inve

Lego! Coun. —
Plon. & Insp. —,

NW 55051 DocId:32989743 Page 71

Pinca sagt MAIL ROOM \ cant unt O eenLgsunk 62 / 1? 29 ile

FBI/DOS



Sous sroxes, emo, enAinNAN

‘SAMUEL L. DEVINE, O10
Mtwanenemcniviver, CONN :
Suances THone, Neon. 4

HAROLD 5. SAWYER, MICH. eo : 7
Solect Conunittee on Issassinations : +
Son Eee " QS, Bouse of Representatives

(202) 225-2624

9331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2 .
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

DEC 9 1977

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell .
Attorney General of the United States
Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General: 7
In connection with the investigation by this

Committee, into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King,

Jr., it is requested that ex-FBI agent Robert Nichols,

formerly of the-Atlanta field office, be made avail- coe
able to the Committee for interview on a priority
basis.

Your prompt attention to this matter will be
greatly appreciated. | i

Very truly yours,

| filb.t Clots,

G. Robert Blakey
Chief Counsel and Director

cc: Danny O. Coulson

ADAAG/ CO
GRB:mek ; Prien Ene~2)

[-0LA Core) (2-//7 2G 397.

7 | 11
NW 55051 Docld:32989749 Page 72 ENCLOSURE
PPesesseebessseees



AS

Poe

TELETYPE
ROUTINE
EFTO 1/19/78

1 - Mr. Foster

= ee LD (ROUTINE ALLINEORUMATION CONTAINE
a) aoe” HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED \ :

O grre DATE @\\ga_ BY: w\ oh,

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

THE HSCA IS CURRENTLY CONDUCTING INVESTIGATION INTO THE
ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. BY LETTER DATED }
DECEMBER 30, ieet TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL, THE HSCA bday D
THE FBI PROVIDE ALL FILES, DOCUMENTS AND OTHER MATERTALS oft? {\
CONCERNING RICHARD GEPPERT, BORN JULY 3], J94], ay fe

"1340 NIEDRINGHAUS AVENUE, GRANITE CITY, ILLINOIS. Gd
N@ 2/25/78
BY LETTER DATED JANUARY J6, 1978, THE HSCA EXTENDED ITS

REQUEST TO INCLUDE FIELD OFFICE FILES. THE HSCA ALSO FURNISHED

ca
A SIGNED STATEMENT OF GEPPERT, DATED DECEMBER 28, 977, A
AUTHORIZING HSCA REVIEW OF ALL MATERIAL CONCERNING HIM IN
POSSESSION OF THE FBI. IN THIS STATEMENT GEPPERT ALSO

DISCLOSED THAT HE VOLUNTEERED TO HSCA STAFF MEMBERS THE EXTENT

AND NATURE OF HIS INFORMANT RELATIONSHIP WITH THE FBI.

Assoc, Dir, ———|
Dep. AD Adm.

Par885 96)

1 - 157-8621 |_ SER Kon Page sey G6
ae td 5569. BUREAU . 1 AG 6a ua d- /12¢ 2 a 7 e yo 5
COLRUIBOATIONS An BEC-AG
uaa _@ JAN 28 1978
O40 e} pouBEnenCanegenee===
FELET

Troining ———
Public Affs, Off.

Telephone Re.

c \8
Director's Sec’y — 5 6 ANOS aero UNIT

ne > Fer/pos
NW 55051 Déeld:32989749 Page 73 “ ; 4



eee

wk

55051 Docld:32989749 Page 74,

PAGE TWO EFTO

FBIHQ FILES DISCLOSED GEPPERT WAS SUBJECT OF SPRINGFIELD
EXTREMIST MATTER INVESTIGATION (]57-]792) IN ]972 AND
SPRINGFIELD FILE 44-]]20 FOLLOWING ALLEGED HARASSMENT BY
OFFICERS OF THE GRANITE CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT IN ]975. HE
WAS ALSO SUBJECT OF SPRINGFIELD FILE ]70-445,

SPRINGFIELD PROMPTLY FURNISH FBIHQ ONE XEROX COPY. OF
EACH SERIAL IN THE ABOVE THREE INVESTIGATIONS AND ONE COPY
OF ANY OTHER MAIN FILE OR FILE REFERENCE WHICH MAY BE
IDENTIFIABLE WITH GEPPERT. THIS MATERIAL SHOULD BE FORWARDED
BY COVER AIRTEL TO FBIHQ, ATTENTION CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT,
RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION. UPON RECEIPT AT FBIHQ THE
MATERIAL WILL BE PROCESSED FOR ACCESS BY STAFF MEMBERS OF THE
HSCA.
Br



PAGE THREE EFTO

NOTE: This teletype confirms telephonic communication with

Supervisor Joseph Ondula of the Springfield Office on
1/19/78. This matter has been coordinated with

SA M, V. Hale, Top Echelon and Criminal Informant Unit,
Criminal Investigative Division.



. FD-86.(Rev. 7-27-76)
me ; FBI
. )PRANSMIT VIA:

PRECEDENCE: CLAS SIFICATION:

i)
1
!

! .
(3 Teletype © Immediate (2 TOP SECRET H
C Facsimile 2 Priority © SECRET i
&& Airtel © Routine (J CONNIDENTIAL i
| OEFTO '
© CLEAR Hl
1/4/78}

Date -

DIRECTOR, FBI (62=E7596)

Attn: Congressional Inquiry Unit,
Special Investigative Division

FROM: SAC, ATLANTA (66-2242) (RUC)

SUBJECT: ‘HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)
BUREAU DEADLINE - 1/13/78

Re FRIHO yeletype to numerous offices, including

Atlanta, 12/27/77. ‘ \
Referenced Bureau teletype indicated that the

HSCA was currently conducting investigation into the assassinatij

of MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. (MURKIN); and in connection with /|

this investigation, the HSCA had requested the FBI provide

the following: 7

(1) The identification of field office case agent(s)
assigned to the MURKIN investigation in recipient offices
‘and this was to include the division, section or squad assign-
ment, and the nature of the agent's assignment immediately _ :
prior to his involvement in the MURKIN investigation.

(2) Identification of the field office case agent(s)
assigned to counterintelligence program (Cointelpro), efforts
directed against KING.and the Southern Christian Leadership
Conference (SCLC) during the period 1965 - 1968 in recipient
offices, and this was to include the division, section or
squad assignment, and the nature of the agent's assignment, ~ ,‘|
immediately prior to his involvement in the Cointelpro, q

-_ and SCLC inven + REC.36 L2a- i 729 an

“In aaaitider ld Cipients were to identify the™Gase
agent(s) involved in the security investigation of KING 4978
and SCLC, as well as the Cointelpro. 1 JAN?

Wee Peet sonman
aaah Copies made re — —
“Atlanta (1-66-2242) 2 TTA: ate fr
(1-44-2386) (MURKIN)——
ee at HSCA re 17/)3/77 rhqus
(See But ie ¥62-11h290)

Approved: — SsSeRSSS050558 Transmitted inane Per
AAM SO 4gN Quy umber) (Time)

| NW 55051 Hone 32989749 Page 76

GPO : 1977 © = 225-539



AT 66-2242

Atlanta has reviewed pertinent files as requested
by FBIHQ, and the information sought by the HSCA is set
forth below in chart form:

1. MURKIN

(Atlanta file 44-2386)

Nature of

— * Division, Agent's Assign-
Section, or ment prior to
Case Period Squad of involvement in
Agent assigned Assignment MURKIN investigation
ALAN G. 4/8/68 —- Atlanta - #3, Security/extremist
SENTINELLA 4/29/68 Security/extremist investigations
Squad
ROBERT R. 4/29/68 - Atlanta #4 Fugitive investi-
PERRY 7/30/68 Fugitives gations
O. RICHARD 7/30/68 - Atlanta - #3 Extremist
HAMILTON 7/31/69 investigations
O. RICHARD 5/30/70 - Atlanta — #3 it
; HAMILTON 7/13/70
0. RICHARD 2/8/71 - Atlanta - #3 7
HAMILTON 3/16/71
O. RICHARD 3/31/71 - Atlanta - #3 ial
HAMILTON 4/7/71
O. RICHARD 7/13/73 - Atlanta - #3 Ms
HAMILTON 8/31/73
O. RICHARD 6/19/74 - Atlanta - #3 "
HAMILTON 6/27/74
O. RICHARD 8/13/74 - Atlanta - #8 Civil rights
HAMILTON 9/24/74 Civil rights, thefts matters
from interstate
shipment (TFIS)
Etc.
2
Page 77

NW 55051 DocId:32989749
aes


NW 55051 Docld:32989749 Page 78

AT 66-2242
Nature of
Division, Agent's Assign-
Section, or ment prior to
Case Period Squad of involvement in
Agent assigned Assignment MURKIN investigation
THOMAS J. 8/26/75 - Atlanta - #8 Civil Rights,
WILSON 9/8/75 TFIS
THOMAS J. 1/7/78 - Atlanta - #8 a
WILSON 3/23/76 7
JOHN J. 10/12/77 - Atlanta - #8 Civil Rights
HAYMAN 11/8/77 matters
2. Atlanta Agents assigned
to/or who handled the Atlanta
Counterintelligence Program
(Cointelpro) during the period
1965 - 1968 in which efforts were
directed against KING and the SCLC
Nature of
Division, Agent's Assign-
Section, or ment prior to
Case. Period. Squad of involvement in
Agent assigned Assignment Cointelpro
CPUSA
Cointélpro
ALDEN F. 4/14/64 — Atlanta -— #3 Security
MILLER 8/13/65 Investigations
Cointelpro
Black Nationalist-
Hate Groups
EDWARD U. 8/29/67 — Atlanta - #3 Security/extremist
CRIM 7/30/69 Investigations

CPUSA Negro

Question; Communist
Influence in Racial
Matters (CIRM)-
Cointelpro

No case agent assigned -
matters handled by:



AT 66-2242
Nature of
Division, Agent's Assign-
Section, or ment prior to
Case Period Squad of involvement in
Agent assigned Assignment Cointelpro
ROBERT R. 1/1/64 - Atlanta - #3 Security/extremist
NICHOLS 8/20/64 investigations
ALDEN F. 2/4/64 - Atlanta - $3 Security
MILLER 8/21/64 investigations
ALAN G. 7/22/65 - Atlanta - #3 Security/extremist
SENTINELLA 4/15/69 investigations
3. Identity of case agent(s) involved
in the security investigation of
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., and the
SCLC
' Nature of
Division, Agent's Assign-
i Section, or ment prior to
Case Period Squad of involvement in
Agent assigned Assignment KING and SCLC
investigations
MARTIN LUTHER
KING, JR.
| SM-C :
ROBERT R. 3/7/61 - Atlanta - #3 Security/extremist
NICHOLS 5/12/61 investigations
ROBERT R. 2/28/62 - Atlanta - #3 7
NICHOLS 10/16/62
ROBERT R. 1/9/63 - 7 Atlanta - #3 *
NICHOLS 7/31/63
ROBERT R. 11/6/63 - Atlanta - #3 _
NICHOLS 5/21/65
ALAN G. 5/21/65 - Atlanta - #3 ty
SENTINELLA 6/5/68
4
au 55051 DocId:32989749 Page 79



AT 66-2242
Nature of
Division, Agent's Assign-
Section, or ment prior to
Case Period Squad of involvement in
Agent assigned Assignment KING and SCLC
investigations
Communist infiltration
of the SCLC
ROBERT R. 4/17/62 - Atlanta — #3 Security/extremist
NICHOLS 12/1/64 investigations
ALDEN F, 12/1/64 - Atlanta - #3 Security
MILLER 4/26/66 investigations
ALAN G. 4/26/66 —- Atlanta - #3 Security/extremist
SENTINELLA 3/12/71 investigations
OQ. RICHARD 3/12/71 - Atlanta — #3 Extremist
HAMILTON 5/23/73 investigations
O. RICHARD 7/10/73 - Atlanta - #3 a
HAMILTON 10/20/73

5*

NW 55051 DociId:32989749 Page 80



¥

Assoc. Dir.—_——
Dep. AD Adm
Dep.-AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.t
’ Adm. Serv.

Crim, Inv.
/ R Fin. & Pers
EOE Ident,

Intell.

f

/ ibe
7 7 UF THVESTICAT;
R 1021962 JAN 78 oe
LOUISVILLE (66-2612)
TO DIRECTOR €62-11729G) ROUTINE
BT SJ j Public Alls. Off.
Telephone Rm.
EFTO _ | Director's Sec'y___
ATTENTION: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE
DIVISION
OUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS CHSCA),
13, 1978.
; nn)
RE BUREAU TELETYPE TO ATLANTA, DATED DECEMBER 27, 1977.
PURSUANT TO REFERENCED COMMUNICATION, APPROPRIATE REVIEW
OF FILES MAINTAINED BY LOUISVILLE DIVISION REVEALED FOLLOWING
DATA REQUESTED BY HSCA.
(1) NOT APPLICABLE TO LOUISVILLE DIVISION,
(2) NO COUNTERINTELLIGENCE (COINTELPRO) EFFORTS DIRECTED

AGAINST EITHER MARTIN LUTHER KinX oy O 0-30, 11724
(kasi °"Ree-s6 GA] ((240— 0-593
COULD

EDUCATIONAL FUND CSCEF), DURING PER TOD 1965-1968,

? hide

LOCATED IN REVIEW OF COINTELPRO a SUBS sup cweSTIEATTON

nny ; SAN 25 _
4p Ue PUI As 20

efi | fhe an

ene Fe ee Pali Tt
Aer anno. oy eWay FBIHG by

AN Tp er gh . : Qiee HSCA re j2/3/77 request.

ant aa a cwern Se NS SS a (See Buf ¥le #62-117290)

q
i

i



6

OF KING AND SCLC, NO COINTELPRO ACTIVITIES WERE EITHER

»

LS 66-26 12. EFTO PaGE Two

CONSIDERED OR CARRIED OUT AGAINST KING AND SCLC BY LOUISVILLE
DIVISION,

SECURITY INVESTIGATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.,
ASSIGNED SA GEORGE W. HUTCHINSON, JR. (RETIRED) MAY 14, 1965 -
AUGUST 13, 1966, AND SA RICHARD B. VIVIAN JULY 30, 1976 -
OCTOBER 28, 1976 LATTER ASSIGNMENT ADMINISTRATIVE IN CONNEC-
TION WITH DEPARTMENTAL REVIEW.

SECURITY INVESTIGATION OF SCLC ASSIGNED SA WARREN L.

WALSH (RETIRED) SEPTEMBER 29, 1961 - OCTOBER 36, 1961; OCTOBER
17, 1963 - NOVEMBER 18, 19633; DECEMBER 14, 1963- JANUARY 22,
1964; JUNE 5, 1964 - JULY 8, 1964; SEPTEMBER 21, 1964 - OCTOBER
12, 1964; JUNE 2, 1965 - JULY 2G, 1965; NOVEMBER 17, 1965 -
JANUARY 23, 19663 JULY 13, 1966 - AUGUST 12, 1966; FEBRUARY

12, 1967 - MARCH 24, 1967; SA GEORGE W. HUTCHISON, JR. (RETIRED)
AUGUST 12, 1968 ~ JUNE 5, 19693 SA WARREN L. WALSH (RETIRED)
JUNE 5, 1969 - JULY 29, 1969. SCLC (BUFILE 188-438794)

(LS 157-99) INVESTIGATED BY LOUISVILLE AS "RACIAL MATTER"

AND “INTERNAL SECURITY - COMMUNIST". «



LS 66-2612 EFTO “PAGE THREE

SPECIAL AGENTS GEORGE W. HUTCHISON, JR. (RETIRED), WARREN
L. WALSH (RETIRED) AND RICHARD B, VIVIAN ALL ASSIGNED LOUISVILLE
SECURITY - CIVIL RIGHTS SQUAD PRIOR TO AND DURING ABOVE
LISTED CASE ASSIGNMENTS,
BT

NW 55051 DocId:32989749 Page 83


W te mi1aisse 4

DE SL
P 1@1924Z JAN 78

Mi ST. LOUIS (62-5897) (RUC)
" TO DIRECTOR (62-11799@) ROUTINE

ost . 4

GEAR

Public Affs. Off
Telephone Rm.
Drector's Sec'y——

STTENTION: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVES
DIVISION
IOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)$ BUDED JANUARY 13,

1978, -

yf
REFERENCE BUREAU TELETYPE DATED JULY 97, 1977. VA

(1) FORMER SPECIAL AGENT HAROLD R. DOBSON WAS CASE AGENT AS-
SIGNED TO MURKI'N INVESTIGATION, ST. LOUIS FILE 44-775, BUREAU FILE

44-38861, IN ST. LOUIS DIVISION. FORMER SPECIAL AGENT DOBSON WAS
ASSIGNED TO SECURITY SQUAD AND HANDLED SECURITY TYPE CASES PRIOR TO
HIS INVOLVEMENT IN MURKIN INVESTIGATION.

(2) ST. LOUIS FILE 157-5818 ENTITLED "COUNTERINTELLIG ENCE
PROGRAMS, BLACK NATIONALISTS, HATE GROUPS, RACIAL INTELLIGENCE” WAS

OPENED AS A PENDING INACTIVE STATUS CONTROL FILE ON AUGUST 29, SIF
68 haa

3 REG.36
go JAN 25 1978

—— en

,_ ages (Cz copies made pre IF

Lash Time "|
for pevisyap SS
for review at FBIEQ by
HSCA res/Z273 yxequest.
(See But42 #62~117290)

TN

NW 55051 DocId:32989749 «pag ARON coe


PAGES TWO, SL 62-5097 OL
oN FEBRUARY 27, 1968, THROUGH JANUARY &, 1969, WAS ASSIGNED To
SPECIAL AGENT JACK A. FRENCH OF SECURITY SaUaD AT ST. LOUIS DIVISION.
HIS ASSIGNWEND IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO THIS CASE ASSIGNMENT was TO .
HANDLE SECURITY TYPE CASES.
ST. LOUIS FILE 1099-17801, BUREAU FILE 109-196670, ENTITLED
"MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.; SECURITY MATTER - C” WAS ASSIGNED TO
FOLLOWING AGENTS: FORMER SPECIAL AGENT RICHARD B. SMITH, JANUARY 15,
1965, THROUGH JANUARY 19, 1965, FEBRUARY 3, 1965, THROUGH APRIL 14,
1965; SPECIAL AGENT ROBERT S. STEWART, APRIL 28, 1965, THROUGH
APRIL 28, 19653 FORMER SPECIAL AGENT WALTER A. HILGENDORF, .
NOVEMBER 11, 1965, THROUGH NOVEMBER 12, 1965, AND JUNE 14, 1966,
THROUGH JUNE 17, 19663 FORMER AGENT RICHARD B. SMITH, OPENING DATE
UNKNOYN THROUGH JULY 6, 1966, AND MARCH 25, 1967, THROUGH MARCH 27, My
1967. al
st. LOUIS FILE 105-4927, BUREAU FILE 199-438794, ENTITLED
“COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE

RM; IS.- C" WAS ASSIGNED TO FOLLOWING AGENTS: FORMER AGENT WALTER A.
HILGENDORF, SEPTEMBER 23, 1964, THROUGH DECEMBER 19, 1964, AND

MARCH 21, 1965, THROUGH APRIL 19, 19653 SPECIAL AGENT JACK A. FRENCH,

JUNE 3, 1965, THROUGH JUNE 16, 19653 FORMER AGENT WALTER A.

Coen!

NW 55051 DocId:32989749

Page 85



PAGE THREE SL 62-5097 aR @ =
HIL@@WDORF, FEBRUARY 24, 1966, THROUGH DATE UNKNOWN; SPECIAL AGENT

JACK A. FRENCH, JUNE 6, 1969, THROUGH JULY 23, 1969. THE ABOVE
AGENTS AND FORMER AGENTS WERE ASSIGNED TO ST. LOUIS DIVISION SECURITY
SeUAD DURING PERTINENT PERIOD.

A REVIEW OF ABOVE FILES DISCLOSED NO INSTANCES WHERE COUNTER-
INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES WERE CONSIDERED OR CAPRIED OUT AGAINST KING
R THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE.

BT



ate aus “ : ra

LAOS7S B13 18972 “°
PP HQ

e

DE LA
rat® A wv
P 1318072 JAN 78 jan V3
ne eC SOREN
FM LOS ANGELES (62-7841) @) CHoeeuR een Hot
TTC
TO DIRECTOR (62-117298) prion
BT ae

"EF a
ATTNs” CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNITS

| . S ing “ection
DIVISION. a 8-23)

Qou SE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA) » BUREAU
DEADLINE JANUARY 15, 1978.

te
RE BUTEL DECEMBER 27, 1977, TO ATLANTA AND OTHER
OFF ICES,

FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS COMMUNICAT ION AND RETEL THE
TERM CASE AGENT(S) WAS DEFINED AS THE SINGLE AGENT TO WHOM

THE CASE WAS ASSIGNED AND WHO WeSt{BSPONSIBLE FOR THE

DIRECTION AND FLOW OF THE INVESTIGATION. REGQgg (9. 117290 Fil
IT IS NOTED THAT UNDER CAPTION "BERNARD S. LEE V.

CLARENCE M, KELLEY, ET AL (U.S.DsCey D.C.) (CIVIL ACTION

NUMBER 76-118) BUFILE 62-117194, LA FILE 1900-57229" AND as

1978

een

pit 2G

“SOUTHERN CHR ISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE (SCLC) V. ~ CLAREWOE
ans

= 4 ft

—at__.copies made Ly
Yat lesa: mae © eee

§
tea rll j we

nner eeneE
Yor reviey ap BSLEQ by

. Sch ro/zfa]72 request.
rn

NW_55051_Docid: 3258s Page 87 (See Butite #82-217260)



PAGE TWO (LA 62-7841) E FTO
Me KELLEY, ET AL (U.S.D.C.y DeC.) (CIVIL ACTION NUMBER

Se es.)

76-1186) BUFILE 62-117193, LA FILE 1808-57229," LOS

ANGELES HAS PERMANENTLY CHARGED OUT TO THE BUREAU SEVERAL

SERIALS WHICH THEREFORE ARE NOT AVAILABLE FOR REVIEW.

SERIALS WERE FROM FILES CaPTIONED “MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR$

SECURITY MATTER-COMMUNIST; BUFILE 19@-106678; LA FILE

199-57229"3 "COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF SCL S3

Is -C3 BUFILE 169-438794 AND 190-4423493 LA FILE

198-65 141"$ "CP-USA NEGRO QUESTION, COMMUNIST INFILTRATION

IN RACIAL MATTERS; IS-Cs; BUFILE 190-3-116, LA FILE 157-859."
A REVIEW OF PERTINENT FILES WITHIN THE LOS ANGELES

DIVISION BETWEEN THE YEARS 1965 - 1968 DETERMINED THE
FOLLOWI Nes

+ THE ABOVE FILE REGARDING COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF THE
SCLC WAS HANDLED ON THE SIBSTANTATIVE DESK SUPERVISED BY
SA JOHN S. TEMPLE WHICH WAS DESIGNATED AS SQUAD NUMBER TWO.
THIS SQUAD HANDLED INVESTIGATIONS OF RACIAL AND BLACK
EXTREMIST MATTERS, THIS INVESTIGATION WAS ASSIGNED TO SA
LOUIS K. DE GEUS IN FEBRUARY 19653 SA R. ANDREWS PETERS IN

NW 55051 DoclId:32989745 Page 8&8



PAGE THREE (LA 62-7841) E FTO

SEPTEMBER 19653 SA W. JAMES WOOD IN APRIL 1967; SA

WALTER M. BRADY IN JANUARY 1968; AND SA E, RHEAD RICHARDS,
JR. IN MAY 1968 ;

THE MAIN FILE ON KING WAS ASSIGNED TO SQUAD TWO AS
ABOVE AND WAS ASSIGNED TO SA DE GEUS IN JANUARY 19653
SA PETERS IN MARCH 19653 SA WOOD IN JANUARY 1967; SA BRADY
IN JUNE 1967: AND SA GEORGE E. AIKEN, JR. IN FEBRUARY
196 8.

THE FILE REGARDING THE CP-USA INFILTRATION OF RACIAL
MATTERS IS ONLY PER IPHERALLY CONCERNED WITH KING OR THE
SCLC AND CONTAINS NEWSPAPER CLIPPINGS AND OTHER INFORMATION
WHICH WAS INCLWED IN OTHER SUBSTANTATIVE FILES, WHILE
NOT CLEAR, THE CASE APPEARS TO HAVE BEEN CONTROLLED BY
SA TEMPLE,

THE ENTIRE SUBSTANTATIVE FILE CAPT IONED "MURKIN
BUFILE 44-38861; LA FILE 44-1574" WAS COPIED AND SUBMITTED

_. 1
TO THE BUREAU UNDER INSTANT CAPTION, THIS MATTER WAS 4
HANDLED ON SQUAD NUMBER ONE WHICH WAS SUPERVISED BY SA
WILLIAM JOHN NOLAN BUT APPEARS TO HAVE BEEN SUPERVISED BY
A

NW 55051 DoclId:32989749 Page 89


PAGE. FOUR (LA 62-7841) E FTO .
SA TEMPLE. SQUAD NUMBER ONE HANDLED SECyRITY TYPE
INVESTIGATION INVOLVING THE CP-USA, SWP, ET CETERA. THE
CASE APPEAR S TO HAVE BEEN AS ASSIGNED JOINTLY TO Sa"S
LEROY W. SHEETS AND THEODORE J. A*HEARN ALTHOUGH SHEETS
WAS APPARENTLY INVOLVED AS CASE AGENT ONLY DURING THE
INITIAL STAGES IN APRIL 1968 .

ALL OF THE ABOVE INDIVIDUALS WITH THE EXCEPTION OF
SA 'S BRADY , RICHARDS AND AIKEN ARE NO LONGER EMPLOYEES
OF THE FBI.
BI

NW 55051 Docid:32989749 Page 90



(10730 B132335
RK HQ

DE itd daii3 6 42 i Wi
K 132335Z Jaw 78/7 FEDERAL NE
_ dbs sodftenely
Fil, MIA (62-6625 RUC ICATIONS SECTION
7 Tech. Servs —_.
TO DIRECTOR (62-117298)ROUTINE Bier ere
y Telephone Rm.

Director's Sec'y__

BT

E FTO
Gouse SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS CHSCa), BUREAU DEADLINE
JANUARY 13, 1978.

RE BUTEL DECEMBER 27, 1977. °~

FOLLOWING IS NUMBERED PARAGRAPH REPLY TO REQUEST OF MIai#I
SET OUT IN RE BUTEL:

1. "“MURKIN’. SA DAVID N, JELLISON, ASSIGNED APRIL 8, 1968:
NUMBER 5 SQUAD; IMMEDIATE PRIOR ASSIGNMENTS INVOLVED BLACK AND WHITE
EXTREMIST WATTERS AND CIVIL RIGHTS INVESTIGATIONS, SA LEON E.

FISH; ASSIGNED AUGUST 16, 1972 (RUC AUGUST 28, 1972); NUMBER 2
SQUAD} IMMEDIATELY PRIOR ASSIGNMENTS MAINLY CIVIL RIGHTS INVESTIGa-
TIONS; SA JOSEPH T. O'LEARY; ASSIGNED JULY.39, 1976 cu seuss 3 Gi
1976), FBIHQ spwrursta att vEERSAOOr , Phy deh PRIOR ULaIS “3
’ ;
fa. APPLICANT INVESTIGATIONS. SRA JOHN S. ATWATER; ASSIGNED aE ae wy .

Eh ,.
isp RE JUNE 6, 1977), SINGLE INTERVIEW; WEST PALM BEACH Ra3,
Bo JAN 25 1978 ~

Xa i
i. MAES. o_— a Ij A O beg Co copies mado pga I-2
Yale Fon 9

(ce bon EE ;

acu ma for reviop at FBING by

5 Cong HSCA rep/is request.
(See Bur {id 462-117290)



PAGE TWO if 62-6623 E F T 0

IMMEDIATELY PRIOR ASSIGNHENTS GENERAL CRIMINAL AND SECURITY.

2. A. “MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.; Sil-C. "SA RAYMOND L.
O'KELLY, ASSIGNED 1965 THROUGH 1968; NUMBER 3 SQUAD; IMMEDIATELY
PRIOR ASSIGNYENTS DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE NATURE, INCLUDING LOCaL
CPUSA GROUP.

B. "“COMINFIL OF SCLC; IS - C." Sa RAYMOND L. O' KELLY,
ASSIGNED 1965 TO MAY 2, 1968; NUMBER 3 SQUAD; PRIOR ASSIGNMENTS,
SEE PRECEEDING PARAGRAPH.

SA JOHN C, MENTON, ASSIGNED (1aY 2, 1968 THROUGH DECEMBER 31,
1968; NUMBER 5 SQUAD; IMMEDIATELY PRIOR ASSIGNMENTS INVOLVED BLACK
AND WHITE EXTREMIST MATTERS AND CIVIL RIGHTS INVESTIGATIONS.

C. “COINTELPRO; BLACK EXTREMISIS; RACIAL MATTERS," FILE
OPENED MARCH 7, 1968, ASSIGNED SA JOHN C, MENTON, STILL PENDING TO
MENTON DECEMBER 31, 1968; NUMBER 5 SQUAD; IMMEDIATELY PRIOR aSSIGN-
MENT SET OUT IN PRECEEDING PARAGRAPH.

BT

NW 55051 Docld:32989749 Page 92


‘ - 7
oer ee e

ickannson Preven, N.C. SAMUEL L.OEVINE, OX {
WALTER E, FAUNTAOY, D.C. ‘STEWART D,- MCKINNEY, CONN,

YVONNE DRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF, CHARLES THONE, NER.
__ Shrsvorstzn 3. DozD, CONN NanoUD 6. SAUER, MICH. :

Poy 3. ritatai, Wo.” Select Committee on Assas:
robte w. Eocan, PA: ~
(Gc) nica EE GH. House of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2 *
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

- JAN 161978

The Honorable Griffin B.: Bell
Attorney General of the United States
Department: of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530.

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General © i
Criminal Division : aoe :
Room 2113 ;

Dear Mr. Attorney General:
ay
By letter dated December 30, 1977, this Committee

requested material pertaining to Richard Geppert in

‘." connection with the investigation into the death of
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. In view of the fact that
the Committee has since delivered to the FBI the written
consent of Mr. Geppert #6 viéw all materials relating to
‘his’ informant relationship with the FBI, it is intended
that our December 30th request for materials. and
documents concerning Mr. aa include those found in

any field office files. :
* Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatl. See
appreciated. : EREG-5p ba- -)19 2242 ~
- tebaWsine,
als Abid Bladen.” JAN 28-1978

G. Robert Blakey “°° * Ser mena y ;
Chief Counsel and Director

bA-729 0

Coulson

ORIGIN He.

2n ene” 978° .
:
NW 55051 poor Ss5748 Page 93 i A



Py

Tee west _
| aoe e

Assistant Attorney General -
H 1 tance Division December 1, 1977
ention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch Mr. Monahan

Mr. Peelman
Mr. Foster
Mr. Aldhizer
Legal Counsel

Director, FBI

PRE BE
Prasd

o)
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA) :

iA cu
Reference is a to letter to the Attorney General
from G. Robert Blakey, Ahief Counsel and Direétor, ESCA,
dated November 3, 1977, which, in connection with the HSCA's
investigation into the death of Nartin Luther King, Jr.,
requested certain information from FBI Headquarters files
regarding the National States Rights Party (Item #2) and
if Jesse B. Stoner (Item #3). By letter from tir, Blakey to the
Attorney General dated November 8, 1977, modification of 7
- these items vas:: made, detalls of which are outlined in the i)
enclosed memorandun.

ent
‘ Enclosed are two copies of a memorandum in response
to the above mentioned requests. It is requested that you
furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.
Enclosures - 2
r 1 - Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure)
foe 2 — 1/7490 ~ BBX
| 0 JTA:sas (9) SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

yee oG2-H9920 = FIG ba

ae RC REY

: By
: oe B2 FEB 22 1978
2

a a \

Adm. Serv.__.__ Legal Cat

APPROVEDI

et Ret, Mgnt

Specs inv. {0 fen fen

Director____
Assoc. Din ¥J
Dep, AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv. >

Trataing_—______——

Pobtic Riis, oi

fatell. 1) Z

Laboratory — caer
Legel Couns —— q io e

ey
: Ge ge
mya gue ia — unt

WV

FBI/003

SERS EeE8


‘NW 55051 DoclId:32989749 Page 95 ~

Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division
Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

_ NOTE: | Since theré were no National States. Rights Party (NSRP)
’$Subfiles for offices requested by the HSCA, the.entire NSRP
file for 1967 through 1968 was processed for access. All
information retrievable in FBI Headquarters files regarding
Stoner was processed.

_ Names of knowledgeable case agents provided in attached
memorandum were obtained through review of FBIHQ files and
confirmed by Supervisor Jack Byrd of the Savannah Office.

Thé HSCA can advise which agent(s) it desires to interview
regarding the NSRP and Stoner.



&. Mr. Monahan

1 - Mr. Peelman a
1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Mr. Aldhizer

December 1, 1977
1 - Legal Counsel

: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
r U. S. HOUSE. OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney Gerieral
from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Coumsél and Director, HSCA,
dated Novenber 3, 1977, which requésted certain information
from FBI Headquarters files in connection with the HSCA's
investigation into the death of Martin Luther King, Jr.
Under Item #2 of this letter information concerning the
National States Rights Party (NSRP), Marietta, Georgia, for
the period 1967 through 1968, limited to areas covered by
offices’ in Savannah, Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia, Memphis,
Tennessee; Birmingham, Alabama; St. Lowis, Missouri, and
Springfield, Tilinois, was requested. Under Item #3
information was requested concerning Jesse B. ‘Stoner.

By letter from Mr. Blakey to the Attorney. General
dated November 8, 1977, the above requests were modified.
Under Item (c) this letter requested the FBI's complete file
on Stoner and that, the agent(s) in the Office of Origin
assigned to the Stonef investigation for the period 1966
through 1968 be made available for interview by the HSGA.
Concerning the NSRP, under Item (a). this. letter asked the FBI

. $0 provide information in its files to cover the period 1967 —
through 1968. In addition, the case agent(s) in the Office
of Origin for the same period would be made available for
interview.

In response to the above requests, information in.
¥BI Headquarters files concerning the NSRP (period 1967 through
1968) and Jesse B. Stoner have been processed and are
available for review at FBI Headquarters. by the BSCA: Where
information is not provided, it is either not retrievable a
Assoc. Dir, FBI. Headquarters files or is not being produced, pur: want to;

fesueaeds Memorandum of Understanding. \

AD Inv

ran Ae Tas) lx ‘
Acinic ORIGINAL AND SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

Fin. & Pers. DIVISION , ATTENETON: MR. ROBERT E.. -KEUCH, AND ONE SENT TO
ier ——OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

Lstertoy NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant, Attorney General,
tea criminal Division, Attention: ‘Mi. Robert L. Keuch, aeere Pan ore
Ree Mgnt. captioned, “House Select cir ae on Assassinations, U. S. House

J Spectr ~ef naan (HSCA)." - HWTAI

= 0 = 384%,
o 790 —f.

Training. Ss
Public Alfs. Of iA)
Libaeetta or ee Ye unt ENCLOSURE

55051 DocId:32989749 Page 96



NW 55051 DocId:32989749 Page 97

fouse Rolect Cenmittee on Assassinations ne
YW, &, Fouse of Representatives (HSCA)

The Sovanneh Office of the PHI was Office of Origin
in toti the NSRP and Stoner investigation during the period of
TSCA interest. The following anents of that office were
ease agents in the Stoner investigation: Carlton Dillard,
Jonuary, 1966 ~ April 1967; Willian P. Friday, April, 1967 -
Yctober, 1967: John H. Wurphy, October 1967 ~ September, 1969.
Uith variation of only a few days, these same Arents were
ease agents in the investication of the NSRP. Dillard is now
retired. Friday and "urphy are currently assigned to the
Savannah Office and are scheduled to retire Degenber 31, 1977.

AbpiovEDL Adm. Sern. begat ton
— Grim. Inv Plan, &
rector. Fin, & Pers Ras, Ment,

Assbe. Din. tient gy at
Dep. AD Adri Intell, Teen pi oo
Dep.AB fave = 2. Laboratory. Traning.

Public Afts. Off



r MAGIA As PAUNTHOY, DiCe «TEFEWAnT b, MCHirvey, ConM,
Wronnd immiwarre pune, CALI, “CHAntES THONE, NEO,
HAROLD &, RAWYEO, MICH.

> Select Committee o|Psassinations

yaseuee (Gon 223-4028, i GSH, House of Representatives me
a . . 3993 HOUSE OFF! \UILOING, ANNEX 2,
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515 oy y

wey 8 WHF

1 5. fay

The Honorable Griffin R. Bell ; . IAIIEAEIraIPh cae
Attorney General of the United States - EPEEEEEE EHS EE EH eee EEE :
Department of Justice : oe i
Washington, D.C. 20530 a tt fe :
Attention: Mx. Robert L. Keuch aa :
+ ates Deputy Assistant Attorney FisuSaESTnURBINDIGE?SEErSqaIGD
Peete ; Criminal Division. : aacauaPene Eero

Room 2113 i : Sas tHe

‘ Dear. Mr. attorney Generali a ott °
BEET Pursuant to our one prne into the assassination :
of Dr. Martin Luther King, cre, we hereby request that all 5
reports, materials and files in the possession of the F.B.I..
pertaining to the following individuals and organizations |

be made available to the Committee and its staff:

o

. de Lawrence J. Callanan (deceased) Steamfitters q 7
7 Union (AFL) Local 562, St. Louis, Mo. fox jthe eee
Period 1967 through 1971. :

x

240 National States Rights ‘Party, 52 Cherokee,
Maxietta, Georgia, for the period 1967 through .
1968, but limited to reports and information ‘in

. areas covered by offices in Savannah, Ga.; Atlanta,:
.Ga.; Memphis, Tn.; Birmingham, Al.; St. Louis, Mo.;
——and_Springfield, I11- vee sees esEESREEEREREEEES

3. “Jesse B. Stoner, 591 Cherokee, N.W., Marietta, Ga-
; 6 ath « Conservative Society of America for the period =
LE BEE) 1967 through 1968. (Headquarters in New Orleans, ae

5. Kent’ Courtney,’ 1413, Texas ee to A} BSA F La. por
; Ga the period 1967 through 1948 lo PPSGD E 4A

A— [17.9 ~ 3B) NOLOSURE, wees
‘ 6. KKK oes ta Xrox tl or “Srformation in areas
covered by offices in Birmingham, Rishama, Los Angeles,

Califor + Atlanta, Georgia and Louisville, Kentucky
NW 55052. Docra:s2sn0fh3x ipag. ke period 1967 throuch 1968) . }



ar 6 [7 6 —

7. Morris Davis, RFD, Hoover, Shelby County, Ala.
“fy : :

8. White Citizens Council (racist organization) for the

ft period 1967 through 1968, limited to reports or
information in areas covered by offices in New Orleans,
La.;- Birmingham, Ala.; and Memphis, Tenn. .

gy Forever White, (racist organization) for the period

: 1967 through 1968, limited to reports or information .

in areas-covered by offices in New Orleans, La;

Baton Rouge, La-; Bixmingham, Ala.; and Memphis, Tenn.

10. Charles Joseph Stein, dob 5/11/29-

LL. Percy Belcher, ex-deputy Sheriff, Bixminghain, Alabana, e
for the period 1967 through 1968.
+ 7+°12. Robert Powers, Powers Junction, Intersection. Highways
. rl and 90, Orleans Parrish, Louisiana, for: the period
1967 through 1968. te
Srastesdstenitteee Fc 2 sam DiPiazza, Pamela Place, Chalmette, Louisiana,
.« ,"  . °,  . for the period 1967 through 1968. | pesiert eee

14. Dr. Lucas Dileo - | (office) 8603 St. Bernard Highway,
Chane ree Louisiana, —_ the period 1967 through 1968.

, ie Salvadore L. Licciardi (hiccarai), New Orleans, Louisiane
for the period 1967 through 1968.

iatteinseetcasceacaee’ 1 Gus Joseph Prosch, dob, 11/17/30, 3122 callecita, - 7

' os Sacremento, California. (Arrested in Birmingham,

: ics Alabama in December, 1971 and convicted of violating

‘. . “gun Control Act in 1972.) . : paaeaett

4, “47. Quentin B. pavis, owner of Gun Rack, Birmingham,

Alabama for the period 1967 through pst

Sint Tyre CLIEford Andrews (aka; RICLT warren)” Box 75,— foronto
14, ‘Ontario, Canada. 7

“29. Walter Jack Youngblood, Monticello Stréet, Dallas, Texas.

‘20. Johnny Benelli, 3303, 175 North Orange Drive, Los"
Bee Angeles, California, for .the period 1967 through 1968-

22. Claude Cockrell, dob 5/10/36, FBI #°3898048, for the
period 1967 through 1968.

NW 55051 Doold:32989749 Paye 99



be Cointelpro file, fox the period 1962 EEC

"34. Martin Luther King, Jx. for the perioa 1962 through
1968. (This request pertains to material exclusive
of the Murkin File and the SCLC files and should
‘incluée all information regarding threats to Dr.
King. ' . .

NW 5505r DocId:32989749-
| eee

22. Gene Pearson Crawford, dob 10/2/27 for ‘the
period 1967 ‘through 1968. : _

23. Fleet Edwards, dob 2/a/2X § for the- périod ee
thxrovigh 1968.

°24. Raoul Esquivel ~ (Raul Victor Esquibel), dob
11/17/26, 4524 Parsimmon, Metairie, La. (This
* request includes, but is not limited to, ‘Bureau |-
‘: } File 44-26940.) :

2

- 25, Southern Christian Leadership Conference : ,

a. General file, for the period 1962

: through 1968.

throngh 1968.

invaraas 26. James Bevel, for the period 1965 through 1968.

prenae “on. Rev: Jessie Jackson, Chicago, Ill., for the pexioa
PeEEEED 1965 through | 1968. :

28, vincent Depaul stelly, A434 Sth Ave., Los
: . Angeles, California for the period 1967 through 1968.

‘29. Jerome Wallis Vernon, Home SexrVice Laundry and
Dry Cleaning, 5280 Hollywood Blvd., Los Angeles;
‘California fox the period 1967 through 1968.

jue Rev. James orange, South Carolina fox the \perioa
Renu AnUEEEEE! (1965 throvgh 1968.

31. Rev. Bernard Lee, Atlanta, Ga., a the period.
" : _ 4965 through 1968. :

inadawnsastees ere ALIan Lee Stoddard, *"Vegas -Club", -5510- Lollywood. s
a Blyvd., Los Angeles, California, for the period. 1967
throuch 1968.

33. Robert Byron ‘watson, “ssh 253-85-2220, Atlanta, Ga.

Xe,

Page 100



35. Herman A. Thompson, 10454 Goodwood BIvd.,
Baton Rouge, La., (former deputy sheriff in
Baton Rouge). . i

Ryton “your prompt attention to these matters will be greatly |
- appreciated. :
; : i aaa .* Very txuly yours, :
G. Robert Blakey 7 : e
: . Chief Counsel and Director
\\ GRB:MCE: ek - RBEaIEaaaiigiaine
ec: Mr. Danny 0. Coulson : Bees Ee eett
» ; f. ;
ja . Lo +
. 3 a

AW 55051 + DocId:32989749 Page 101° : _ _
on sam



lLettor:

WW 55051
1 Stain?

Zhe Honoxable Gr:
Bttoxr

£in B. Yell. BEnsBEaManeeeeeenenane SueMacer
ey General of the United States...
mt Of Justice 2. 2 SCOSEAEArVEECSES“9
Washington, p. C. 205302... ..

tion: Mx. Robert

ney General :
fen 2113... Pale

2 igation oor the Select
aiies Nartin :

7, 1877

In connection
ittee on Agsassi.
1G, UXe, @ e
loyees of the FBI the Cons Lttes
staff to discuss the Comaittea’s Novembex 3, 1977 Letter
of request for FBY materials én thirty-five individuals or
izations. As a xesult of this mecting, the following...
xesolved: peseorerarerrs vase d :

. fa)

“requests

2 stated in the & Kovember Bra. .
3, in ci sc2, 26, a 35..

toe woulé vrovide do. ‘Of

% 12 and 27 bifore ©
Whe Gob on Nobert Ud. Fower.
the dob on Reverend Jesse

(b) The Coma:
individuals in ‘reg
process t
no, 12) is 6/5/
no, 27) - 10/8/41.

(ce) ‘Resides prodiding the
e B. Stoner), the EBL would als 3 inake
one (2) | i

eee He * ENCLOSURE A - N74% - Ye va

Docld: 32989749 Page 102



law (‘55051 Docld:32989749

be made as to the

Sreteres (Seale fella

LET

ane
and

standing react
the Conmmitios 1
to
be made ruady

(£) Wie
advise the Co
porting om the 4

G, the

EBS &

oad
2a

(¢) With wespect to request no.
hold in abeyance s a request until

20St appropriate case agyent(s) for

the

ect to request no.
"@

(h}) - With xe
requests that only the thir %
King Be processed at while a request
materiais is held in abeyance until the FRY sd

the most appropriate case agent(s). 0. 6. :
ta Rd@ition,. the Committee vould also xeauest nee
following agents be notified and made availabie .by PSCSETETCEPSE!
V(1) Special Agent William #. Kusch ~ Rew Orle PERE

Special Agont Thomas E. .Duhadway -: New Or
(2) Special Agent Jack B. Simpson - Mem
Special Agent Richard H. Davis —- Mev
Specie] Agent Jack T. Beverstoin ~ Meipt

.Also requested that the PRI.”
work .or perscnnel records of
oa

agents for the month of

{1) Robert Peters - sBESAERGMEEEEEREAELEOSEECEREEPOEEF INEGI : 7
“(2) Willdam Duncan |e, ae ee :

(3) Bernard Bio

5
would a

agents

Page 193.



Se : :
tention to thease matters wil
Vary truly yours, ae
i c a cauees i
G. Robert Blakey ae
as Chief Counsel and birector
Mears : . ? 7
: GRB:mea Pace eric a
ee Mr. Danny 0. Coulson, 0 0. ee ae bee lee eee
i
| rf ‘A
f ;
f

NW 55051 Docld:32989749

Page_104



08

7s LIMITED OFFICIAL USE FBB6@5
PAGE 21 STATE 919886 daw 117 oy AMY
ORIGIN EUR-12 roolifteas
‘FETERAL GOVERFHENT TION

ESTIG,
conMuanesTieNs SECTION

y INFO OCT-%1 ISO0-@9° H-91 L-@3 MCT-@1 JUSE-69 FBIE-96
ff

ty

DRAFTED BY EUR/NE: JPSHUMATE

INR-37 /925 R

APPROVED BY EUR/NE: RLFUNSETH
H - ASCHNEE (BY PHONE)

eee eee en en nn en ---G15192 1419122 /18
R 1492262 JAN 78°
FM SECSTATE WASHDC
TO AMEMBASSY LONDON

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE STATE 919886

E.0. 11652:N/A “Kl
} REC-@ La -III27o F
TAGS:PINR, PDIP, UK cee cement MTD
° , ap N18 1978
SUBJECT sREQUEST FROM HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINA= | remus @
Rineaeneanenaenenaanenn eee 5
TIONS TO MEET WITH BRITISH POLICE AUTHORITIES e
-_—_o 7
<

38 JAN 26 ASB 0g

5S 051  DoclId: sosceny NG Page 105



¢ ° gee TED OF$ICTAL USE 9
/

PAGE a2 STATE 919886

.

MEET,AT THE EARLIEST. POSSIBLE MOMENT, WITH RESPONSIBLE MEM-
BERS OF NEW SCOTLAND YARD WHO ARE KNOWLEDGEABLE ABOUT ITS

PARTICIPATION IN THE INVESTIGATION INTO THE DEATH OF DR.
’
‘MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., THE RESULTING CAPTURE OF JAMES

"EARL RAY IN LONDON ON JUNE 8, 1968 AND ANY FURTHER INVESTI-
GATION FOLLOWING HIS CAPTURE. WE WILL BE HAPPY TO MEET WITH

THOSE REPRESENTATIVES IN GREAT BRITAIN TO PROVIDE ANSWERS
i210 THE QUESTIONS RAISED BY AMBASSADOR BREWSTER'S TELEGRAM.

AGAIN, WE EMPHASIZE THAT TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE AND WOULD
APPRECIATE YOUR ARRANGING FOR SUCH A MEETING AS SOON AS

POSSIBLE. VERY TRULY YOURS, G ROBERT BLAKEY." END QUOTE.

CAN EMBASSY ASCERTAIN WHETHER THE BRITISH AUTHORITIES WILL
PERMIT AN INTERVIEW BETWEEN MEMBERS OF THE STAFF OF THE

SELECT COMMITTEE AND APPROPRIATE OFFICIALS WHO PARTICIPATED
IN THE INVESTIGATION MENTIONED IN BLAKEY'S LETTER AND
ADVISE US. VANCE

NW 55051 DocId:32989749 Page 106

A


ASSISTANT SECRETARY BE i HAS RECEIVED THE FOLL Ovi @LET-
TER FROM GS ROBERT BLAKEY, CHIEF COUNSEL AND DIRECTOR, SE-
‘LECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS: QUOTE: "DEAR MR. SECRE-

“TARY:

;
MANY THANKS FOR YOUR LETTER OF DECEMBER 9, 1977 ENCLOSING A
TELEGRAM FROM AMBASSADOR BREWSTER.

AS YOU KNOW, THE LIFE OF THE SELECT COMMITTEE IS LIMITED TO

THE LIFE OF THE 95TH CONGRESS. IT IS THEREFORE IMPERATIVE
THAT REPRESENTATIVES OF THE SELECT COMMITTEE BE ALLOWED TO

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

55051 Doold:32989745 Page i107



LoUls sroxts, 10, ey
FucwanDsoN PnevER, Nice 1c, onto
WALTER ts PAUNTAOE, Dee ier ewe C7 Loch Bae

wows anaToCvatre DUWEE, CALIF, FS THOME, NEO
Guuasrorntan 3. 0000, Conte HATOUD SAWYER, MICH.
Fuovo 2. erTHING Dr Select Committee on Assassinations

OBERT W. EOGAR, PAL

7

TREAT AS
ORIEIN AL Chief Counsel and Director

GRB;ghk bA-1172F0 6 oa
ee Danny Coulson

NW 55051 DocId:32989749 Page 108 : 7 7 ' 7 |

. to the Committee staff, access to the following:

(20a) 225-4628 GS. House of Representatives
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

January 9, 1978
FEDERAL SOvERMONEE :

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell
Attorney General of the United States
Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear ‘Mr. Attorney General: Za
In ‘connection with the investigation of the House Sele,

Committee on’ Assassinations into the death of Dr. Martin bathe
King, Jr., it would be appreciated if you could .make tin Lathes

1. All files, materials, and information relating
to William Hugh Morris, the alleged leader of
the Federated KKK in Alabama.

a) Address (late 1950's)

2128 East Fifth Street

Oak Park

Montgomery, Alabama. -.--- - . |

b) Jefferson County Alabama
Sheriff's Office Number 52811

Your prompt attention to this Eequest willbe gre iE
appreciated. p 6 a- 724 ago -
REC-30
xs. Respectfully
es Ac frdn Clo, 38 078

wmcemcer wesnoeent (aera
a G. Robert Blakey

fe

Lae



Selle tres ~~¢: 1 ®
Paeaereraes one
gemmmeumnenss QS ae" a

‘YVONNE BHATHIVAITE DURKE, CALIF, CHARLES THONE, NER.

Etimevorntan 9. 0050, COW famous, Sanna, MICH.
Puovo J. FTW Oe Select Committee on Assassinations
ronent vr EDGAR, PAL subst denaivomnticntebtisebain
(oop sans US, Mouse of Representatives
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.G, 20515
January 5, 1978

() The Honorable Griffin B. Bell
Attorney General of the United States.
Department of Justice . 7 cane
Washington, D: C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room 2113.

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee [A

into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., it is-re-
- quested that the F.B.I. make available for interview, on a
priority basis, the following agents:

1. Theodore A'Hearn - Los Angeles \ woh oe

2. Leroy W. Sheets ~ Los Angeles
3. Thomas J. Wilson - Atlanta
4, Gerald Galbreath - El Paso

The Committee is ready to interview these agents on an
immediate basis.

Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly
appreciated.

Sincerely,

lr Soden

G. Robert Blakey
Chief Counsel and Director -

ve Danny O. Coulson ee ce bA-// 72PO - (>
GRB:wwa & Cae L227. — é

TREAT As ; 44 JAN 18 1978.
ORIE/N AL aie
ORES)

NW, 55051 ae Page 109 ©

|
|
|

K

!
|
3

i
:
|



completed by January 16, 1978. mak!
Your prompt attention to this matter will -be greatly
appreciated.
Respectfully,
TRE AS > Apdeod 60a
] ORE (4 LK Ky Hy. G. Robert Blakey
4a, Chief Counsel and ae
, GRB:ghd 8 G
' ec: Danny Cou, son
’ 5a t vy JAN 22 1978
©. SBJAN 241979 | fee
e 55051 Doc: 749 Rage 110

de

sheetiees, mo, gga
RICHARDSON PREYER, ie! Foo
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

Yvonne BRATHWAITE BUNCE, CALIF, GHAMMES THONG, MEER
CHRISTOPHER 3. DODD, CONN, HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.
HAROLD E, FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J, FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT W. EOGAR, PAL

[eat eam Select Committee on Assassinations

GSH. House of Representatives if “%
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2 oat
WASHINGTON, Di Ce Roach +

(202) 225-4628

; January 4, 1978 7
EDERAL GOVERMENT | : : =

HAND DELIVER

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States
Department of Justice :
Washington, D. C. 20530 : 5

Mr. Robert L. Keuch
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room 2113

Attention:

"Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee
into the death of Dr. Martin Luther’ King, Jx., it is re-
quested that the F.B.I. make available to the Committee ffi
access to all F.B.I. materials, files, memoranda, airtels, and
miscellaneous items, including but not limited to any con-
tained in the MURKIN File (44-38861), on or referring to the 7
following individual: i

Gerold Frank ~ author
d.o.b. 8/2/1907
current address:

930 Sth Avenue

New

It is requested that access
- vided on a priority basis so that

York, New York 10021

to these materials be pro-
our initial review can be



\

eee
cons sons oo, cit : ;

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. ‘SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, DCs STEWART D. MCKINNEY, COHN.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF, CHARLES THONE, NEOR,
CHRISTOPHER 4. DODD, Mant

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, INO.
RODERT W. EDGAR, PA.

sa =

ee snaien MY —_—aest Committee on Assagsinations

*

age) 225-4624
_ : 3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

DEC 30 1977

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell
Attorney General of the United States
Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Mr. Robert L. Keuch
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room 2113

Attention:

Dear Mr. _Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this committee
into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., it has been
determined from a review of the Chicago field office file
(No. 44-1114) of the MURKIN investigation that the FBI is
in possession of several letters of correspondence from

- Jerry Ray to Marjorie Fetters. (See, for example, serials
271, 335, 496, 560, 574, 621, and 637 ‘in the Chicago field
office file.) It is requested that the FBI furnishsthis
Committee with copies of all correspondence from Jerry eae!
to Marjorie Fetters.

Your prompt attention to this matter wild be greatly

"Ere Hause of Representatives ‘

appreciated.

TREAT AS
ORIGINAL

cc: Danny 0. Coulson

hw 2 JAlisg. WTB ‘974

Rage 111

ST RECS CO- J) 994 —

Very truly yours,

A Molar Cadre 3 UN 107

G. Robert Blakey
Chief Counsel and. icPinect

31k

aio werent ore

CDSEIFISITS4.

CTEGISLATIVE. AFFAIRS

“FEDERAL BUL OF Ww



Select Committer on Aesagsinutions
GS. House of Representatives
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

—_

OFFICIAL BUSINESS

ee emg aS a |

Mr. Danny 0. Coulson

Federal Bureau of Investigation
J. Edgar Hoover Building

10th & Constitution Ave., N.W.
Washington; D.C. 20530 .

more



FEDERAL GOVERNMERT

Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division October 3, 1977
Attention; Hr. Robert L. Keuch Mr. Monahan

Mr. Peelman
Mr. Foster
Mr. Aldhizer
Legal Counsel

Director, FBI

BPeRR Ee
Prrere

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

oy
Reference is made tp the letter from U. S.°
Congressman Louis Stokes, Chdirman, HSCA, to the Attorney ..
General, dated August 9, 1977; requesting availability of”
all FBI reports relative to robbery of the Bank of Alton,

Alton, Illinois, July 13, 1967.. Reference is also made to ,
the letter from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel, HSCA, to f
Hy. Robert Keuch, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, dated
September 13, 1977, requesting a copy of all FBI reports i
in this bank robbery investigation. aay Pom

é

Enclosed are two copies of a memorandum which
responds to the above HSCA request. It is requested that
you furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

Enclosures - 2 ST-l29 RFC-A5L2- /19 aye -3 dl

en ~ Office of Legislative Affairs (Enelosure)

oni ae

x ime -
: ABPROVEDS ; bm i. oe ie
{eh . Fine & Pers ~ ‘Roo. Mgt
tt Sug. Director__—_——— Fin! : Spot. tet aap

Assoc. Dit—_—_——— oh. Servs
Cia. ent ‘Dep AP AVEDA Laboratory == Feaag
- Dep. AD Inv Publis Alfsr

Ree, Ment,

Troining
Poblic Affe, Off — pew Pa oN
Telephone Rm, —

TELETYPE UNIT FC)

: ww AK 5 iho! ge 113



Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division
Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch .

NOTE: The Alton bank robbery occurred at the time James Earl
Ray was a fugitive, prior to King's assassination. Ray was
considered a suspect in this robbery subsequent to being
identified as King's killer. No evidence was producéd to link
Ray with the robbery. The case was closed unsolved in 1972.

In its request of 8/9/77, the HSCA asked for access.
to our investigation into this bank robbery and the file was
prepared. Later, the HSCA submitted a second request which
requested "a copy of any and all materials or reports" in the
Alton bank robbery. Mr. Kéuch advised on 9/19/77, that
delivery should be limited only to investigative réports in the
case. The requested material was picked up at FBIHQ on v7
9/19/77 by Oliver Champion, HSCA messenger. Purpose of
enclosed. memorandum is to confirm delivery of this material.

NW 55051 DocId:32989749 Page 114



1 - Mr. Monahan
1 - Mr. Peelman
1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Mr. Aldhizer

Oetober 3, 1977
1 - Legal Counsel

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

This will respond to letter dated August 9, 1977,
to the Attorney General from U. S. Congressman Louis Stokes,
Chairman, HSCA, and letter dated September 13, 1977, to
ir. Robert Keuch, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, from
G, Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel, HSCA.

This letter 1s to confirm that, pursuant to the
above request dated September 13, 1977, a copy of each
investigative report of the FBI in the Alton bank robbery,
Alton, Illinois, July 13, 1967, was delivered to a
representative of the HSCA on September 19, 1977.

Wr :sag, (9)

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL
DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH AND ONE. SENT TO
OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

NOTE: See Direcotr, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated

10/3/77, captioned, “House Select Committee on Assassinations,
apr U. S. House of Representatives (HSCA)."

Aésoc. Di, ——
Dep. AD Adm —

aApPROVED! “1455

Logal cot mW gf
Plan. & Insp_—t
Director____—— Tent

: . Roo, Mgnt
. 7 Assoc. Dif.___——_ Iden |
: Dep. AD Adm———- Intell Tech, Sarvs
re Pep. AD Inv 7 Trai sanEAEEEEEES
Training —_— De.

ieee es
es as Re “Und.
Daaeseye MAIL ene” ox unit ghcLosv ¢ 2 -} / 9 a ? ° y 1 §EI/D09,

NW 55051 DoclId:32989749 Page 115



“ «
‘
touts sroKes,, Tow, CHAIRIAN 7 7

micHAROSCH PREVER, N.C. SAMUEL L. DEVINE, O10

Waren & PAUNTROY. De. Hrewanrb, MeRINNcY, CONN, 7 7
Yon sugnmmarticaunce, ear, Shntge mone, wean 7
Exmisrorncn a1 0000, cos fAnoLo bo SAUTER, MICH. scuae

Povo a. errMn, . : Select Committee on Assassinations

poctn wi EDGAR, PAL 5

Nw 55051

GS. Mouse of Representatives
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515.

(202) 225-4624

August 9, 1977,
RE “CEIVED -

Aus 3 Sane:

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell “sy
Attorney General of the United States 7
Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20430

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

Pursuant to our investigation into “the assassina-
tion of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., we request that
you make available to us all investigative reports
relative to the robbery of the Bank of Alton, Illinois,
on July 13, 1967.

Best wishes and kind regards, I am

Sincerely,

EME: ek
e .

Opt hy AAGIEO
16-32-77
TTA: ave

1+ OLA

6a- 37729 ov 3 fly, RIGHTS Dov,
: “ng OOURE
DociId: 32989749 Pagé 116 7

A,toeh.



eee eee eee a

Lous StoKEs, om10, CHAIRMAN :
RICMAROSON PREYER, HC. SAMUEL L, ovIglliiro ry
factor te PACTrOv, Dee Stovaten. we .
ioe saatnvarse BURGE, CALIFE  GHANLES HONE,
i] CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN, HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH. 7 - :
Teor 2.rrmian tor Select Committee on Assassinations .

FLOYD 3. FITHIAN,
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PAL

GHD, House of Representatives
3931 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
_ WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

{202) 225.4624

September 13, 1977

Mr. Robert Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General *-
Criminal Division

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530:

Dear Mr. Keuch:

Pursuant to the investigation into the death of
oat Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. by the House Select Committee
He N _ on Assassinations and our conversation with your office on
Monday, September 12, 1977, we are hereby requesting a copy
of any and all materials or reports thé Federal Bureau of
Investigation has regarding the Alton Bank Robbery in Alton,
: Illinois on duly 13, 1967; as well as a copy of any other
} materials the Department of Justice may have in its
possession relevant to this matter.

ia - ““E appreciate. your’ cooperation and assistance in this
! +request, and I look forward hearing from you.

Sincerely,

Eee . :
ee AMlhek Clove...

: . : .  G. Robert Blakey
. | Chief Counsel and Director

SIL/GRB/An5

ba: ane JE

eNCLOSURE

= 55051 Docld:32989749 Page 117



Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

Attention: Mr. Robert a Keueh

Director, FBI

C) HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is may
from G. Robert Blakey,

cnowt

to letter to the Attorney General
‘lef Counsel and Director, HSCA,

Novenbey 10, 1977

BRRPEE

Mr. Monahan
Mr. Peelman
Mr. Foster
Mr. Aldhizer
Legal Counsel

dated October 18, 1977; requesting access to material in the
files of the FBI * pertinent to seven listed individuals.

Enclosed are two copies of a memorandum which responds
to the above request and advises that material on six of these
individuals is available for HSCA access at FBI Headquarters.
Information on the seventh individual, Randolph Erwin Rosenson,
was previously furnished the vaaieis by FBI memorandum dated,

October 13, 1977.

Enclosures ~ 2

1 ~ Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure)

([iazan

Assoc, Dir,

Legal Coin, —
Plon. & Insp.
Rec. Mony

Spec. Invi
ache Sorvssas
Troining we
Public Affs, Off. —
Telephone Rm. —
ar 1 Sec’ 4 alte ROOM T

Nw ess sHAND! Ddcid: 32989749

Page 118

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

APPROVED

Director.

Assoc. Dir____——_ Ident.

i 1s Uae

‘E SSNS

Adm, Serv Legal Sox.
Grim. Inve

Fin, & Pers Recs Mgnh— <
}————— Spex Inv.

Dep AD A Intell,___

Bebe AD in GEfBir A Laberatory—=—.

nf

Plan. & tnsp.——_—

Tech. Servs__L__
Teaining——_——__—_——
Public Affs. Offic

ne

s FBI/DOJ +



Assistant Attorney General : :
Criminal Division
Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: By request dated 9/20/77; the HSCA asked for information
concerning Rosenson. By letter to the Attorney General and

its enclosures, both dated 10/13/77, information concerning
Rosenson was delivered. The HSCA request dated 10/18/77,
(attached) desired information on seven individuais, including
a repeat on Rosenson's name. :

-2-

NW 55051 DocId:32989749 Page 119



wes ® 8
7 1 - Mr. Monahan
1 - Mr. Peelman
1 - Mr. Foster

1- Mr. Aldhizer
1 - Legal Counsel

November 10, 1977

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA).

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General
from G@. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA,
dated October 18, 1977, requesting access to material in the
files of the FBI “pertaining to:

Harvey Gene Love

George G. Pittman
Stephanie Helene Sheehan
Jonathon Henry Shea
Keith Albert Wright
Frank Quenqui

Randolph Erwin Rosenson

Retrievable information in FBI. Headquarters files
_concerning the above individuals, with the exception of
Rosenson, has been prepared for the Committee's access
subject to the usual excisions or deletions. Where information
is not provided, it is either not retrievable from
Headquartérs files or is not being produced pursuant to the
Memorandum of Understanding.

By FBI memorandum dated October: 13, 1977, documents
containing information concerning Hosenson were provided the
ee ATHED

OP Son: #52, af 9)

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, ‘CRIMINAL
DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR.’ ROBERT L. KEUCH AND ONE SENT TO
Assoc. bir. OF FICE oF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

Dep. AD Adm. —

“NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,
—Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated

Fe Pan tl/10/77 5 captioned, "House Select Committee on_Assassinations,
tée,__-U. S. House of Représentatives, mai b

Intell. -)(9 09>
2 cpl OSE Adm, Serv. Logal corn 1] JAF

Crim, Invi. Plan & Insp.—__

‘ Direstor_______Fin. Rec, Moat
AS, Assoc. Dir——____ (Spee ane i
uS\ Dep, AD ISP Tech. Servs__\_

Training

. Public Affs, Off. Dep, AD In ‘Laboratory... Training _-_
Telephone Rm. 7 Public a Of__..
Diractor’s Sec'y — MAIL ROOM” TELETYPE UNIT C) yt _

FBI/DOJ
\WW 55051 DocId:32989749 Page 120 . ws



ovrnr w.

= SVETTLE SUTTT Te 3 ,
EocAR, Fa ; i ;
(0d) 225.4824 QS. House of Repregertatives Ak,
SoHE 9 3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDINQMBANNEX 2 lhe

v ea +
y Lull NAME . Date of Birth _ FBI Number

i

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

October 18, 1977

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell
Attorney General. : -
U. S. Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Attn: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

: :
Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the Select Committee's investigation

- into the circumstances surrounding the death of Martin Luther
King, it would be-appreciated if you could make available to

the Committee staff materials, in the files of the Federal

Bureau of Investigation relating to the following individuals

for the period of time from January 1, 1967 to December’ 31, ~-

1968: Sia :

Gove, Harvey-Gene - 4/1/35 592-813A
-Pittman, George G. _ 6/20/38 919-933C
Sheehan; Stephanie Helene © 7/26/53 °951-133N4
Shea, Jonathon Henry 6/12/47 688~-95852
Viright, Keith Albert - 7/27/44 . 122-7508
uenqui, Frank 12/9/08 : 160-8374

Rosenson, Randolph: alia 3/20/34 34-711E

In addition, ie would be appreciated if you could make
available to the staff the criminal records for these individ-
uals, This written request confirms,an oral request made by
myself to Mr. Dan Coulson on October 18, 1977 in the offices
of the Committee. :

thank you.
Respectfully,
G. Robert Blakey ‘
Chief Counsel and Director
GRB:DM
copy to: Dan Coulson ~- i
acl ENCLOSUCE
ufiel77 Ent 2) Co-Li? 2.796 tt
Vth e2ag

Docld: 32989749 Page 121°



Training —
Public Aff, 0:
Hie en

55051 Dot

Assistant Attorney General FEDERAL covermynye
Criminal Division November 11, 1977

Attention: Hr. Robert L. Keuch Me. Monahan

Mr. Peelman
Mr. Foster
Mr. Aldhizer
Legal Counsel

Director, FBI

O

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

BREE
prrdns

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA,.

dated November 7, 1977,’requesting confirnaticn as to the

existence or nonexistence of electronic surveillance regarding
certain individuals and a business in connection with the FBI's
investigation into the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. i

a
Reference is mad letter to the Attorney General

Enclosed are two copies of a memorandum which Dd
responds to the above request. y

Enclosures — 2
1 ~ Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure) 17) |

(1
fina: sas 53) il i a

(9) ye SEE NOTE PAGE 2

APPROVED?

Direstor____
Asses.
Dep, AD Adm.

Rep. AD Inv a
ei 0) RECS je 1173. 40
Dee AD i, :
“Ke Sete A ah Ga » 23. JAN 10 1978 a |
Paes _@o* ss é ee ees

' Td Pe roan
161 TB x00. oo” TELETYPE UNIT ©)

89749 Page 122

La as UY Q
TAs” B

Fe1/DOs



Assistant Attorney General
Cfiminal Division
Attention: Mr. Robert L.. Keuch

NOTE: By memorandum dated 5/13/68, the Department was

asked for authority to place technical surveillance on the
telephones of James Earl Ray's brother-in-law and sister,
Albert and Carol Pepper and the Grapevine Tavern, all located
in St. Louis, Missouri. This memorandum also requested
microphone surveillance be installed at the résidence of Albert
_and Carol Pepper, the residence of Ray's brother; John Larry
Ray, and at the Grapevine Tavern. FBIHQ files contain no
information to indicate the Department of Justice took any.
action on this request. Following Ray's apprehension the
Department, in memorandum dated 6/11/68, was advised that the
FBI's request for electorrnic surveillance was withdrawn.

The above information is contained in the King Assassination June
file and has been processed for access of the HSCA.

The HSCA's request of 11/7/77, desired only written
confirmation as to the existence or nonexistence of electronic
surveillance on the above individuals and business during the
period 1/1/67 to 12/31/68.

)


1 - Mr. Monahan
1 - Mr. Peelman
1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Mr. Aldhizer

HovenbSe 1292597

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference 1s made to letter to the Attorney General
from @. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA,
dated November 7, 1977, requesting confirmation as to the
existence or nonexistence of electronic survéillance against
the following individuals. and business in connection with:
the ao drivestigation into the assassination of Nartin Luther
ng, Jr:

1. Jerry Ray, brother of James Earl Ray.
2s John Ray, brother of James Earl Ray.

3. Garol Pepper, sister of James Earl Ray,
and hex husband Albert Pepper.

4, Grapevine Tavern (also kyiown as Jack's Place),
1982 Arsenal, St. Louis, Missouri.’

This: memorendun. is to confirm that, based on a
review of appropriate files at FBI Headquarters, the above:
were not subjects of electronic surveillance by the FBI during
the period January 1, 1967, to December 31, 1968, or at any

ther time.
one ALL THECUIATICT CONTAINED

PA: SEIW 1S UNCLAGSIgTED
fina: sag y 59) EEN BSW acssws=
ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL
DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH AND ONE SENT TO
OFFICE Of LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

Asoc. 0. NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

sad soMtpiminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 11/11/77,
Asst Oe: Captioned, "House Select Committee. on Assassinations, U. Ss.

Adm. Se. House of Representatives (HSCA)."

Chim. Inve ——

ND am
Bee

Tolephone Re =

Directors See'y — MAIL meee TELETYPE UNIT [J eae. sit ba-l t) a4 om Gh.

NW 5505. Docld: 32989749 Page 124

Trainin;
Public Affss Of



LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHASSMAN i iz saee 7
oe ie @ :
S yvdeine BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF, > INE, Wt _ ‘
a Enmetoenenn pope, oat save Mist : Sau
Horoacertrnsh ior” Select Committee on Assassinations
Tooker ws oon Pa: t
U.S. Wouse of Representatives

> 73331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
“WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

ee

(202) 225-4624

-fhe Honorable Griffin R. Bell
Attorney General of the bina states
‘Department of Justice
-Washington,.D.C. 20530

Attention: . Mr. Robert L. Keuch Se
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division
-Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by the Select
Committee on Assassinations into the death of Dr. Martin
Imther King, Jr., it is requested that the Federal Bureau
> of Investigation review its files on electronic surveillance
: to determine whether any of the following individuals and’
: ‘places were the subject of such surveillance during the
period of fenneey 1, 1967 to December 31, 1968: |

1. Jerry Ray, brother of James Earl Ray
2. John Ray, brother of James Earl Ray

3. Carol Pepper, sister of James Earl Ray,
and her husband Albert Pepper

4. Grapevine Tavern (also known as Jack's Place),
1982 Arsenal, St. Louis, Missouri

At this time the Committee only desires a written
-confirmation as to the existence or non-existence of such
-electronic surveillance with no reference to thé results
of such surveillance.

hepa Mire
Wileo: Es-2)

is 1942 Job

NW - S5954——-DooEa: 32989749. wage 125,


Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly
‘ _ appreciated. Pa Berea

‘ : : : Very truly yours,
‘ : G. Robert Blakey
4 _Chief Counsel and Director

GRB:mea ae
ce Mr. Danny O. Coulson

jocTd:32989749 Page 126



- Mr. Long - “Enc!
Mr. Foster - Ends.
Mr. Mintz - Enc. .
EDERAL COVERMAERE Mr. Hotis - Enc.

The Deputy Attorney General December 29, 1977

Director, FEI
Ge,
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

In accordance with Attorney General Order
116-56, this memorandum advises that former Special Agent
doe C. Hester was interviewed on November 21, 1977.
A memorandum: setting forth Mr, Hester's. account, of this
interview is enclesed for your information.

Enclosure

1 Assistant Attorney General ~ Enclosure
Criminal Division
Attn: Robert Keuch.

1 - Personnel file - Joe C, Hester - Enclosure

af! Sy Ga- 1»

23 JAN 10 1878 |

MAILED 3
JAN 9 1978

Assoc. Dir,

Dep AD Adar —_—
Dep: AD Inv. — Approvens sev
tv

Direstor. Z* Fite & Pers
Asso2. Bir Mort.
Dep, AD <n, Inte
Pep. AD Inv Laboratory___

FBI/D03
SSRESSS SERS eSeeee |



In Reply, Please Refer to

7

j UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE iSpyaeiuieennanat HM

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Memphis, Tennessee i . oy
December 5, 1977 7

JAMES .EARL RAY;
/ . DE. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. ~ VICTIM
CIVIL RIGHTS - CONSPIRACY :

i : : ae
On November 21, 1977, retired Special Agent Joe C.

Hester appeared at Washington, D. C., at the request of the
House Committee on Assassinations.

Mr. Hester met with the Committee staff in their

- offices at Washington, D. C., and was interviewed for a

File No.

2
S
g
a
Yn

Z 4
a &
BaF
FY eon

nw fsd5@ Sp: Let sdoes749 Page 128, 7

total of four hours by two different groups of five persons
each. Both groups were affable and were not in any way
critical of the investigation conducted in this case,

The first group of five interviewers asked a
variety of questions but seemed to be particularly preoccupied
with the investigation conducted by Legats in Mexico.

Mr. Hester was able to answer many of the general questions
regarding the activities of Legats but referred them to
Assistant Director Richard Long wheh they began to ask more
specific questions regarding the. investigations by Legats
and the manner of transmittal of this information to FBI
Headquarters .Q)

The second group of five interviewers asked more
general questions regarding the Bureau's investigation of
the King murder. They seemed to be greatly concerned with
the allegation of conspiracy. Mr. Hester advised them that
he believed the conspiracy theory was an invention by the

. -Department of Justice to be used to justify the FBI's 7
. investigation of Dr. King's murder, Mr. Hester advised them

that he had never personally believed there was a conspiracy
and he did not believe that any of his FBI superiors had

ever believed in the conspiracy theory. Mr. Hester further
advised that it was his personal opinion that James Earl Ray,°
acting alone, had murdered Dr. King and that his subsequent |
travels were probably financed by armed robbery.

This document contains neither recommendations nor
conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is
loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your -agency. :
(

4

2 ia, G 2577



RE:. JAMES EARL RAY; Serer a
-Dr, MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. ‘- VICTIM

This group was concerned with how the subject Ray
had ‘known how to obtain false documents following his arrival
in Canada. Mr. Hester pointed out that a "Top Ten" criminal |
had been arrested in Canada and had been returned to the
Missouri State Penitentiary and had served time there with .
‘James Earl Ray prior to Ray's escape. “Mr. Hester indicated
it’ was his belief that this "Top Ten" fugitive had been
i responsible for instructing Ray on how to proceed in obtaining
i -false documents in Canada,

This group touched on such diverse elements as the
information furnished by John McFerren regarding Frank Liberto,
and one of the interviewers. agreed that they had not believed
McFerren to be a very reliable witness. They also discussed
Ray's purchase of the rifle in Birmingham; the fact that
Officer Redditt was moved from the firehouse near the Lorraine
Motel just prior to the murder; what motive did Ray have for
i killing Dr. King; whether or not there was any evidence to
i indicate a conspiracy; whether or not there were any wiretaps
4

and whether or not there had been any surreptitious entries
made against King and his followers at Memphis prior to the
assassination; and when, following his escape, did Ray appear
to have made up -his mind to assassinate Dr. King.

t In addition, they asked numerous questions about
‘ the political climate in Memphis just prior to the assassi-
H - nation and inquired as to what investigation was being conducted
t by the FBI in regard to the Sanitation Workers Strike and the
first march conducted by Dr. King. Mr. Hester was forced to
fet admit that he had had nothing to do with the investigation of
a Dr. King prior to the murder and he suggested that they talk
H + to current Special Agent Howell S. Lowe who would be in a
i position to furnish information in this regard.

7 They inquired about the interview of James Earl
{ Ray” ‘conducted -by former.Special Agent in Charge Robert G.
| Jensen, former Spécial Agent Robert F. Boyle, and Mr. Hester
1 at the state prison in Nashville, Tennessee, following Ray's
1 plea of guilty. Mr. Hester recounted as best he could recall
{ : the.events ‘that transpired in connection with this attempted
!
1
|
i

'
1

interview and advised the interviewers that former Special
- Agent Robert F, Boyle has suffered a cerebral hemmorrhage
and possibly might not be competent to furnish information
regarding this eiitithiabanbai

-2-

NW.55051 DocId:32989749 Page 129 . . 7



_RE: JAMES EARL RAYS. . esuepeneel
7 Dr. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. - ‘VICTIM.

The Committee indicated that’ they. might desire .
‘to interview Mr. Hester: ‘again, either personally. or:
‘telephonically, and they were assured that he would be
available. and agreeable to: assisting them in any way
possible. 7 paar of

|
i

a deceeeeteneeceetataeeteecstteeeseestttaeeeeCeeeeceeet 7

NW 55051 Docld:32989749 “Page ‘130°



mis
Ke) te

Ident.
Intell.

ry
Rec. MgntiZA__p

Training
Public Affs. Off. —



cana @ caitt e STATES GOVERNMENT

*
tee gl 877 memorandum,
REPLY TO obert L. Keuch FRDERAL GOVERNKENT
ATTN OF: Special Counsel to the Attorney General
‘SUBJECT: Qouse Select Committee on Assassinaitions
To: Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation
sf A

I have received a fa ae the Select Committee's

letter of October 27, 1977, to you commending the work of
‘i Mr. Danny Coulson and Mr. Drew Clark. I enthusiastically ’
join the Chairman of the Committee in such commendation .
Pbut I also feel that any such recognition should specifically
include Mr. Jay Aldhizer, who has also been outstanding in
‘his cooperation and willingness to perform the tasks assigned
in his dealings with me in exercising my responsibilities
towards the Committee on behalf of the Attorney General.

a

,
‘
ec: vA « Aldhizer a

Sanne, 0. Coulson Deew sclacle
ssa DU ssa 5 BOG
Nsom
Some
67-62 BSeE &I- $F27°°

John Tr Atdhs nee, OF
S54 -Di FT
woom

b 7s beorse of. Koueh/
pun tO [RET Cone +8

584

ides U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan opriowatroRM No. 10
GSxrpMe ct cen) t01-11.6
ae Page 132 ‘SOO-112



eae ees @ EH @ 720 stares covernment
iii pec 2 "W977 Sahaa

om. memorandum

Robert L. Keuch

REPLYTO 7

Cdldduhatalal . Special Counsel to the Attorney General

SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations
‘TO: Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

I have received a copy of the Select Committee's
letter of October 27, 1977, to you commending the work of
Mr. Danny Coulson and Mr. Drew Clark. I enthusiastically
join the Chairman of the Committee in such commendation
but I also feel that any such recognition should specifically
include Mr. Jay Aldhizer, who has also been outstanding .in
his cooperation and willingness to perform the tasks assigned
in his dealings with me in exercising my responsibilities
towards the Committee on behalf of the Attorney General.

ec: Mr. Aldhizer

ES
S
=
é
2
&
o

Buy U.S, Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan pronai corm No. 10
: Sax eben (ar ceny t0t-11.6
so10-112

1 DocId:32989749 Page 133
PSSST oN oe rn ean ne mementos


NW 55051 Docl

‘FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division November 14, 1977
Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch Mr. Monahan

Mr. Peelman

5 Director, FBI Mr. Foster

PRERH
pean

Mr. McGirl
C) HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS Meo one oa
U. 8. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA) re
MOA ace

Reference is made to a letter dated October 5, 1977,
addressed to Mr. Robert L. Keuch, Deputy Assistant Attorney
General, Criminal Division, from G. Robert Blakey, Chief
Counsell and Director, HSCA. This letter requests all
Information in the possession of the FBI pertaining to
Clifton Baird, Brent Hardin. and Arlie Blair.

Based on information furnished by the Committees:
retrievable information identifiable with Baird, Hardin and
Blair has ‘been prepared for Committee access subject ‘to the ft
usual excisions arid deletions. This material, as well. as. f
limited material pertaining to Hardin, previously. preparéd for ]
the Committee's access, is available to the Committee in” 2
Room 8988 of the J. Edgar Hoover Building. amet oO
) Where information is not provided, it is either a_
not retrievable from Headquarters files or is not being ~
] produced pursuant to thé Memorandum of Understanding.

-

Enclosed are original and two copies of a memo-
randum which responds to this HSCA request. You are requested
to furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

closures ~ 3 : ST-129
JTM:sas (8) : REC-54 SEE NOTE PAGE
fee ba-H 2445

Assoc. Dit, ——
Dap.’AD Adm. — j

Lege! Coun. Assoa, Dir."

Plon. & Insp. — Dep. AD Atm... ‘Inte
Rec. Mgat. — : . Sep. AD tix) nae
Spec. Inv.

ech. Servss—

Training. 7

Public Affs. Off, 2 @ an
Bay aks “SAN i 26s "TELETYPE UNIT (1)
dL SEA.

Page 134



NW 55051 DocId:32989749 Page 135

Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: ‘This. responds toa request dated 10/5/77, from HSCA
for all information contained in Bureau files relative to -

- Clifton Baird, Brent Hardin and Arlie Blair. This request

has been coordinated with the Legal Counsel Division.

A review of Bureau files has revealed that a limited
number of documents relating to an attempted bombing of
Brent Hardin's automobile had béen prepared for the Committee's
access pursuant. to receipt of their request dated 4/27/77: The
Committee was advised of the availability of these documents
on 5/18/77. The remaining retrievable documents in FBI
Headquarters files identifiable with Baird, Hardin ard Blair
have been prepared for the Committee's access and are being
maintained in the Congressional Inquiry Unit's Ropm 8988 for
their review...

Documents retrieved from FBI Headquarters files pursuant.
to the Committee's request dated 10/5/77, include Baird's
ident record, the results of a civil rights investigation
involving Baird as the. subject, arid beferences to Blair appearing

“in the MURKIN file, numerous references to Hardin and the -

results of a civil *pights investigation involving Blair as the
subject.



Mr. Monahan
Mr. Peelman
Mr. Foster
- Mr. MeGirl
1 - Mr. Mintz (Attn:

November 14, 1977
Mr. Coulson)

Bee
rit

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

RE: OC@OBER 5, 1977, REQUEST OF HSCA FOR
INFORMATION IN POSSESSION OF THE FBI
RELATIVE TO CLIFTON BAIRD, BRENT HARDIN
AND ARLIE BLAIR.

This constitutes a complete response to the
October 5, 1977, letter of G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel
and Director, HSCA.

Chief Counsel Blakey. requested all FBI information
relative to Clifton Baird, Brent Hardin and Arlie Blair. ©

Utilizing identifying data for Baird, Hardin and
Blair furnished by the HSCA, retrievable information in FBI~
Headquarters files identifiable with Baird, Hardin and Blair
has been prepared for the Committee's access subject to the
usual excisions and deletions.

Also available for the Committee's access are
documents relating to. Brent Hardin which were previously pre~-
pared on May 18, 1977, pursuant to the receipt of the
Committee's vequest dated April 27, 1977, for these documents.

Where information is not provided, it is either
not retrievablé from Headquarters files or is not, being
produced pursuant to the Memorandum of Underst: ing.

JTM:sas
ab)
ORIGINAL AND TWO SENT TO MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH, DEPUTY ASSISTANT
Assen vr. ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL DIVISION.
ep. AD Ada
avon "NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,
Adm Sev. Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 12/14/77,
am reaptioned, "House Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S.

Now House of Repyesentatives (HSCA)."

Leborotory —— + al Gaze.
Legal Coun, —— \ 7 APPROVED! Adm, Servs——— “ae & tnsp.—_L_—

Plan, & Insp. — Grim. Inv

foo Higet-—————

im. & Pors——
Bee Hot — i: pirector——— Fim spec. In—————
Tech er f? Assoc DR infatl—Taths Serve
Training z a Dep: AD : horatory———_,_Training———_—-—~
Public Atta OF BNCLOSE,<-. pop ADI —— * _pablie Aff Off ——
Telephone Rm. am fal \
DiecersSeey— MAILROOM]. TELETYPE UNIT b 2-/HIAFa 7 b& Fe1/oos

r NW 55051 DocId:32989749 Page 136



WALTER E, FAUNTROY, D.C.

Yvonne GRATHWAITE BUARE, CALIF, CHARLES THONE, NEB 7 : TREE

Ree RS Racer nae ot i
loro J remins nD. @ Select Committee on —
a
me ,_ Ke02) 284528 : ULSD, Wouse of Represemewnces:

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

_ October 5, 1977

Mr. Robert Keuch

Deputy Assistant bared General
.Criminal Division .
. Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear ‘Mr. euch:

Pursuant to our investigation into the assassination
of Dr. Martin Luther ler King, Jr. 1 we hereby request’ that all
reports, materials. and files in the posséssion of the F.B.I.
pertaining to the following individuals be made available

+ to the Committee: and its staff:

1. Clifton Baird, 7813 Edsel Lane, Louisville,
Kentucky~ : 7

‘2. Brent Hardin, 9102 Bristle Ave., Louisville, -
Kentucky-

3. Arlie Blair, 4025 Franklin Ave., Louisville, °
Kentucky, dob 9/3/32.

od

Your prompt attention to these matters will be greatly

appreciated. ‘ +
Very truly yours, :
4 for on bs
G. Robert eeeeee
Chief Counsel and Director
MCE:ek
cc: Mr. Danny 0. Coulson
Lt Ta 446/20
VIM :Aag - . 2 \
udilep ahiGhus. we wel ‘e
Nw 55051 peor Page a7 Hee : # Sessa e even eves eemesrnvannn an etestnanarit



+
Louls sTékes7i0, CHAIRMAN

Pi a
RICHARDSON PREYER, NC. ‘SAMUEL

WALTER E, FAUNTROY, DCs STEWART]

‘YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.

ae
‘CONN, ' . 7
Suances eco
DODD, CONN fanoub sy SAR CH. : : Hee
“HlovD J. EITM, OS Select Committee on Assassinations
eee : UWS. House of Representatives
7 (202) 205-4624 De B a

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

——— DEC 13 1977 7
Oy

oo?
zs =
Re
The Honorable Griffin B. Bell a0- =
Attorney General of the United States SBE 8
Department of Justice r7 EB
Washington, D. C. 20530 B “3 .
5 . ca) 4
Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch ” : RE EIVED
Deputy Assistant Attorney General 7
Criminal Division, Room 2113 O6C 4154977.
Dear Mr.- Attorney General: 2. c
|

Debrecen

In connection with the investigation by the ‘Select 0. L.
eee on Assassinations into the death of Dr.
ehex-King; Jr.7 3

Martin
ire, Lt would be appreciated if our staff could
have access to the following files:
| a) Any and all materials or files pértaining to
the organization known as the MINUTEMEN for
the period 1966-1968 active ‘in the ‘states of
Mississippi ai

ZTLpaisia
EGON C119 99% — |
Any records ana files, ST eee D. a 4? recor
requested in -our letter of November 8; 1977%0n:/

Reynard J. Rochon - (1967 adaxSbsh\iN 4 1978
2200 Oriole Street 7018 Dreux Street
New Orleans, Louisiana

New Orleans "KouiSiand
Your cooperation and prompt attention to this matter is
greatly appreciated.

c)

Sincerely, -— Gat-1/ 7296
seear

, All Xkelres
aere Ne

G. Robert Blakey

Chief ety
“GRB:ghe :

cc: Danny QO. Coulson

BY INL AIS

Nw 55051 voord SaeB 5 Page 138
1 seein



OPTIONAL FORM No. 10 y
SULY 1973 EOITION E
GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-116 :
UNITED ‘STATES GOVERNMENT ara
TO : 0 : © Associate Dire DATE: 12/22/77

FROM

Legal Counseé

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

Dieector’« Sec'y —

PURPOSE: The purpose of this memorandum is to recommend
that.the Director release from their secrecy
agreements, SAs Harry L. Lee, Richard D. Rackleff, James R.
Riorden, Warren L. Walsh, John B. Simpson, Richard H. Davis,
Jack T. Beverstein, Robert Nichols and former Assistant
Director Alex Rosen. gf

DETAILS: By letter dated 12/20/77 HSAC requested to inter-
| view SAs Harry L. Lee (former), SA Richard D.
Rackleff, James R. Riorden, and former Pssistant Director
Alex Rosen. By letter dated 11/8/77? the Committee requested
permission to interview SA John B. Simpson, Richard A. Davis
(former) and SA Jack T. Beverstein (fprmer).

By letter dated 11/3/77 captioned Committee
requested the identity of the case Agent most familiar with a
white hate activities jf the period from 1965 to 1966. By
letter dated 11/17/77/the Committee was advised that this
i Agent is SA Warren L. Walsh (former). By letter dated
gp? the Committee requested permission to interview
SA Robert Nichols (former) .

RECOMMENDATION : ~ REG-46 4 53

ETCOMIENDRETON T Ie 62-MIaye 2H
That the Director release from their employmentenn

agreement for purpose of interview by the captioned Committee
the following individuals: Harry L. Lee, Richard D. Ragklefifi: 4
James R. Riorden, Warren L. Walsh, John B. Simpson,
Richard H. Davis, Jack T. Beverstein, Robert Nichols andesmen me
former Assistant Director Alex Rosen. Pa

a os

* Zz
1. - Mr. Mintz
1 - Mr. Monahan 20
| te. Long {wenn h/t ia SS
1 = Mr. Foster A birector. Fin, & Pers LZ
2 - Mr. Hotis CES Assoo, DM ert, f4——_———
1 - Mr, Coulson bch eemezeemey

op. AD Negy——— Intell _____—
vitae Dep AD tn Laboratory——— Tra
vocra@tay Uns. f te SS

! fai Setaares—"
12 1978. Buy t U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan
: bh Sta: saokS rh ~ Page 139 {

