# docid-32316515

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/25/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10348-10044

HQ

CR 92-5044-16

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NK

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

12/31/1962

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

ANTHONY PROVENZANO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER; TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32316515

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev.551-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

NEWARK

TITLE OF CASE

PAUL BMILTO D'AKATO, aka.

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/31/62

REPORT MADE BY

VICTOR E.

CHARACTER OF CASE

10/1-12/26/62

MUSSER

AR

TYPED BY

ami

hip

REFERENCES

Bureau letter to Newark dated 11/15/62.

Philedelphia letter to Newark, dated 11/6/62.

Report of SA VICTOR. E. MUSSER dated 10/31/62 at

Newark.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

ENCLOSURES

TO THE BUREAU

• Iwo copies of a letterhead memorandum characterizing

informants utilized in this report.

ADMINISTRATIVE

It should be noted that SA FRED R. B. MACKENZIE

assisted in the interview of the subject, conducted in

683992-5044-

REG- 58

- Bureau (92-5044) 151

1 - USA, Newark

2 - Las Vegas (92-418)

2 - Philadelphia (92-919)

2 - Newark.

(92-919)

Dissemination Record of Attached Repori

Agency

CO AAG, Criminal Division.

Request Recd.

Organized

Date Fwd.?

Room

Cring & Racketeerine Section

How Flyde

By

6% JAN 14 190,3

Doc1d:32316515 Page 2

• A JAN 3 1963

Notatlons..:

STAT SECT,

---

## Page 3

NK 92-949

Avenue, Atlantic City, N.J., in an atteupt to ascertain the

potential of developing a highly confidential source.

The Philadelphia Office in a letter dated 11/6/62

advised that ANGELO BRUNO's daughter, JEAN, was wed oz

9/26/62 at Philadelphia to one PALPII PUPPO.

PE 614-C-TE

advised SAS JOSEPH A. VERICA and EDWARD D. HEGARTY On

9/26-27/62 that "SKINNY" D'AVATO tas present at the

reception held at the Benjamin Fronklin Hotel, Philadelphia,

Pa.

D'AMATO W2J

accomparied by his vile.

guest listicr the weacing reception, which list indicated

the tables at which guests were to be seated. The list

indicated that at table #1 the following persons were

seated:

Mr. and MrS. PAUL D'AMATO

and Mes. JOSEPH BARBELLA

Mr. and Hrs. SALVATORE BARBELLA

Mr. and Mrs. CAROLINA and son*

Mr.

and His. JUaN OnAPALLe

Mr. and Mrs. ROCKY PINARDO

The above information is not being set forth in

the details of this report in order to avoid compromise

1o1 informant's position.

it is noted that the investigative period of

this report extends beyond the period of last investigative

report, however,

this was done to include information

not previcusly reported.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NK T-1

Former NK 2153-C

• NK T-2

PH 623*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32316515 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NK 92-949

Idsntity of Source

NK T-3

PH 614-C-TE

NK T-4

NY PCI BARBARA GANDALLO

LEADS

LAS VEGAS

AT LAS VEGAS, NEVADA. Will maintain contact

with informants and logical sources for any information they

may receive concerning PAUL EMILIO D'AMATO, aka.

PHILADAUPHIA

AT PHILADELPHIA,

PA. When available will forward

photos of subject and others taken at reception following

wedding of ANGELO BRUNO's daughter, JEAN, to RALPH PUPPO.

NEWARK

contact with informa rearns astrates

Will maintain

and his associates.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32316515

Page

4

---

