# docid-32560480

## Page 1

FD-g§ (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

8/5/58

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via.

AIRIEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECIOR, FBI (92-2717)

SAC,

PHILADELPHIA (92-444)

ANGELO BRUNO, WaS .,

00: PH

PH 514-0 on 8/4/58 advised that he had on that date

been told by his brother, local racket figure dealing primarily

in illicit whiskey, that ANGELO BRUNO was

"hanging" in unknown

"Tavern" Irenton, N. J. BRUNO also allegedly meeting an

unknown "Italian State Senator" in Trenton, N. J., who, for

undisclosed reasons is helping BRUNO get contracts to perform

exterminating work. One such contract was alleged to be for

exterminating "schools" believed In Trenton, N. J: vicinity.

Note that BRUNO admitted to Chief Inspector

JOHN J. 'KELLY,

5/26/56 that he, BRUNO, had $500 invested in the Atlas

Sanitation and Exterminating Company, Trenton, N. J., which

BRUNO said was operated by öne JOHN SIMONE, wa., John Casablanca.

BRUNO was observed ariving: a 1958 Cadillac with

Florida registration IWW 3536 on 6/8/58 by PHPD.

This car

observed by Bureau Agents

in front of BRUNO's residence, PH,

is light tan or gray in color.

Above for info Bureau.

NK by contact informants and

logical sourcespascertain If BRUNO or above car recently

in trenton,

that vicinity

tr and'

and identity of "Italian State Senator" from

his connection with

• BRUNO. Ascertain if

above mentioned company has contracts to exterminate any local

schools and attempt to ascertain if State Senator instrumental

in obtaining contract for instant company.

3. - Bureau (92-2717)

84-124

HENNRICH

- Newark' (92-657)

REG 82

1 - Philadelphia (92-444)

JRP : MMK

92.271

-25

1068

6(6) 071.

190K0

Approved:

E.N.

Sent

_M

PeI

Special Ag

raige

DocId: 32560480 Page 1

---

