# docid-32297341

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10219-10117

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

97-4110-1ST NR 125

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NK

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/17/1964

2

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/20/1998*

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

19.1

DocId: 32297341

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106-03

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO

IRNMENT

Memorandum

TO

CONFIDENTIAL

LAITBOLMOS

DIRECTOR,

FBI (134- 9638)

FROM

¡ OBJECTION TO

SUBJECT

CIA HAS NÖ

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

KP 5-18-98

• SAC, NEWARK (134-1704) C.

ISIDRO HERVENEGILDO

ALVAREZ Y CARBAJAL,

aka. "Quino"

IS - CUBA; NELUTRALITY MATTERS

JUL 17 1964

Crassiten m Stixma

Declassify ON DOOR IFK

classiried by

Declassity on: OADR 8/5/85

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are twelve copies

Of a LHM dated and captioned as above at Newark, N.J. (1(4)

Copies are also being furnished to INS, Newarks,

U.S. Customs, New York, for local dissemination, and Miami

for dissemination to. U.S. Customs because of subject's

activities in miami. (e (4)

NK T-I is CIA cable dated 6/15/64 captioned

"ALLEGED INFILTRATION OF MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO

NK T-2 1S YSIDRO ALVAREZ (former PSI). (A)(U)

It is believed that captioned subject is possibly

identical to the individual whose background is set forth

in the LHM. ALVAREZ was a former PSI of the Newark Office

It is felt that this matter falls within the

jurisdiction of custons and

being conducted by Newark.

un ther anvestagation 15

The hil Is classilled conildentlal because ofe

information included iron clA which was so coassilled.

ENCLOSURE

DECLASSIFIED BY 5:6108 SUS/RSK

OM -

6-23-9& MANTER

27-4110-

RECORDI

JANASO

MVD JUL 29 1964

• Bureau (Enc.

Miami (Info) (Enc.

2

Nevarks

CONFIDAATIA

RDL: Joh

4

291964

DocId: 32297341

Page 2

CRIGINAL COPY FILED IN

134

---

## Page 3

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CONFIDENTIAL

TED STATES DERAKTMENT O

FEDERAL BUREAU OF

INVESTIGATION

Newark, New Jersey

July 17, 1964

JUSTICE

classified by

Declassify on: OADR 85/95

CIA MAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASCIRICATION AND/OR,

RELEADE OF CIA INFORMATION

YS IDRO HERMENEGILDO

ALVAREZ Y CARBAJAL

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA;

513-94

Classifted A

508. man

KP 5-18-98

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Declassify

IT DAOR

On June 15, 1964, NK T-1, another Government

Agency

which conducts security and intelligence investigations,

advised that Isidro Alvarez Carbajal, also known as "Quino"

arrived in Miami from New Jersey as a head of a group of men

Alvarez has a blue and white

Buick with New Jersey License IIV44. Alverez brought with

him arms and equipment which have been distributed among

trustworthy members of the Movimiento Democrata Cristiano (NDC) •

The records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles at

Trenton, New Jersey, reveals that license IIV444 is registered

to Joseph P. Sargenti, 1ll olst street, West New York, New

Jersey, for a 1954 Chevrolet, four-door, white and green

automobile. (M(4)

In March of 1962, NK T-J, who has furnished reliable

information in the past, advised that Ysidro Hermenegildo Alvarez

Y Carbajal resided at 519 60th Street, West New YOrk, New

Jersey. (R)(4)

On May 26, 1960, the records of the Newark Office of

the Immigration and

• Naturalization Service revealed that

Ysidro Hernenegildeo Alvarez Y Carbajal had file A 10163641

and was born April 13, 1941 at Placetas, Las Villas, Cuba.

His residence before entering the United States was

in Placetas.

6 M

He entered the United States on an 0-1 visa issued at the

American Entassy at Havana on January 5, 1955.

He entered the

United States for permanent residence at Miami, Florida on

February 26, 1955. ((u)

CECLAS

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)•

It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your

agency. (dj4)

CONFIDENTIAL

(4)

- GROUP T

Excludea from

automatte

downgrading and.

deelassification

DocId: 32297341 Page 3

---

