# docid-32294617

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10213-10393

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 2-2173-171X3

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DEEGAN. J. G.

TO: GALLAGHER. R. J.

TITLE:

DATE: 10/27/1976

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

05/14/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32294617

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LETIONAL FOEA NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FMR (A1 CFR) 101-11.6

-UNITED STATES GOWERNMENT

Memorandum

Reit

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. _

1 - Mr.. Adams

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

ME

aLlagnel

Adm. Serv.

MOOrE

TO

Mr. R.J. Gallagher

107277700)

Ext. Affairs

Fin. & Pers.

DATE:

1

-

Mr.

Ingram

Gen. Inv. _

FROM : J.G. Deegangul

1

Ident.

-

Mr. Deegan

Inspectiff

1

Mr. MCCarthy

Intell.

Laboratory

SUBJECT:

UNSUBS; BOMBING OF

CUBANA AIRLINES

I

= ME:

Retombatorie

(McHargue) Legal Coun.

Plon. & Eval.

Rec. Mgnt.

DC-8 NEAR BARBADOS, WEST INDIES,

5668

Spec. Inv.

Training -

OCTOBER 6,

1976

CLASSIFISO BY

Telephone Rm.

NEUTRALITY MATTER - CUBA - WEST INDIES

REASON:

3 (d) )

CHILBOM

DECLASSITY

PURPOSE:

JFK

:.. IS 123/51

Purpose of this memorandum is to advise of contacts

by State Department officials with the writer concerning

matters relating to captioned investigations.

DETAILS:

on 10/25/76 Mr. Culver Gleysteen, Coordinator of :

Cuban Affairs, Department of State, telephonically contacted

the writer and advised that the State Department was con-

Sidering having the U. S. Ambassador in Venezuela contact the

President of Venezuela and advise him of the following: dusl

RUVIEWED BY

RELEASE IN FULL

ALEASE IN PART

The U. S. Government and, specifically, the FBI are

not involved with the individuals who are considered suspects

in captioned matters.

He further stated that the Ambassador

will tell the president of Venezuela that their people, the

Venezuelan people, are much closer to the suspects than the

U. S. Government's people.

The Ambassador will acknowledge

that in the past we may have had some association with these

¿people but the U. 'S. Government does

not have association

with these people at the

present time

43-2179-13/X3

ENr: Gley tu tated that he was furnished a copy

of a Miami FBI teletype

wherein it was set out that

Icardo Morales Navarrete, who is presently a Section Chet

within DISIP (Venezuela

TOTAL DENIAL

of the Miami FBI Office

advised if Navarrete was

still a source of the FBI and

specificall

whether he was being paid by the Fbp for

info

tion.!

SEER

JGD: tdp

(10

14.299

Class

led

EN.

JAY

2 197772

3y20.S. Saving,

TINUED - OVER

9/83

MS TOMORUATION CORTANTO

BERET IS UNCRASSIFIXD

EXOPT WERE SHOWN

FBI/ DOJ

DocId: 32294617

Page 2

ORDED COPY FILED

---

