# docid-32292762-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10210-10038

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ JUNE MAIL

62-9-9-1251

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/30/1963

4

THP, MISUR, OC, BUSS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

17

---

## Page 2

CG 92-350-Sub U

KLANE has apparently made someitype of deal

WAS HOELLEN, to the effect that he would

conduct a full investigation

into the FlO RIto affair.

Those present decided that GIROLAMI, the Clerks

'Of the Probate Court, D'ARCO and Alderman VITO MARZULLO

of Chicago's 25th Ward, should make an appointment with

Mayor DALEY for Monday morning, April 29, at which time they,

determine

from Mayor DALLY

why this investigation

togother with FIO RITO, being pushed and to what extent

the Mayor desires to see the investigation proved.

It was

further decided during the late: afternoon hours of April 26

that GIROLAMI and FIO RITO would neet with KEANE in his

offices for the purpose of determining why KEANE has decided

to push this investigation.

Following the departure of GIROLAMI and FIO RITO,

in his discussion with MARCY, D'ARCO stated that he was

apprehensive regarding FIO RITO's stand in this matter and

is afraid that FIO RITO does not desire to stand up and

fight this situation. According to D'ARCO, FIO RITO is

extemely apprehensive over the possibility of his obtaining

a jail sentence in

this matter and is further apprehensive

regarding the possibility of his, FIO RITO's, wife having

to appear before a hearing board of some type in this matter.

MARCY advised D'ARCO that he does not want to let

this matter drop and desires that FIO RITO make a determined

stand in this matter and fight the investigation being

conducted by the City Council. MARCY advised that he does

not want to

"lose face" in this situation and cannot afford

to make another mistake in the matter.

MARCY further stated that he learned that SAM

GIANCANA has as yet made no statements regarding his opinions

regarding the present situation.

CG 6498-PC, who is identical with GIROLAMI,

on 4/30/63 that he has

been in almost constant contact with D'ARCO, MARCY, TISCI

and FIO RITO beginning Friday, 4/26/63, until the morning of

4/ 30/63. He confirmed substantially the information set out

above from CG 6576-C* and advised that he, VITO MARZULLO,

and D'ARCO, as Democratic ward committeemen of the City of

Chicago, met with Mayor DALEY on 4/29/63.

During this meeting,

- 3 -

---

## Page 3

CG 92-350-Sub U

Mayor DALEY advised FIO RITO that he had two alternatives.

He tOlO FIO RITO that FIO RITO could get up on the floor of

the City Council

and take an oath that he had properly and

legitimately met all residence requirements. DALEY specified,

however, that in the event FIO RITO did this, he would also

bave to

testify in a civil suit which would undoubtedly be

brought by Republican Alderman JOHN HOELLEN, who has introduced

a resolution that FIO RIIO's residence be investigated, and

that not only Flo RIlo but also his wife would be reauired to

testify in such action under pain of perjury. DALEY advised

FIO RIIO at the meeting of April 29 that if FIO RITO felt

that his position was strong enough so that he would commit

himself and his wife to such action, he, Mayor DALEY, would

then back FIO RITO. However, if he refused to take an oath

as to his residence, then Mayor DALEY suggested to FIO RITO

that the other alternative would be to resign.

CG 6498-PC advised that he spent most of the morning

with FIO RITO on 4/30/63. FIO RITO advised him that he

had recently returned from Florida, where his wife and children

are now residing, and discussed the proposals of Mayor DALEY

with his wife.

FIO RITO strongly indicated to the PCI

that he would

not desire to put hinself or his wife in the

position of

taking oath and testifying as to his residence.

PCI advised that he feels that FIO RITO will resign in the

very near future.

Based on the above information, contacts were made

this date at the Ist Ward Organization, at FIO RITO's law

office, and

at the Conrad Hilton Hotel, where he is residing

in attempts to contact him.

These attempts were negative,

and messages were left for him to contact either SA ROEMERODY

SA RUTLAND. Within ten minutes following these calls,

CG 6498-PC contacted SA ROEMER and advised that he had just

been contacted, and informed that the FBI was attempting to

contact FIO RITO.

Sourc advised that he will set up a meeting between

the FBl and FIO RITO as previously proposed and that he will

attempt to make this meeting for the morning of 5/1/63.

-4-

S10-10

---

