# docid-32629757

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10035

• RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : USAF

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Staff Message Branch Incoming Message

DATE: 3/10/1963

PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 43: Cuba Cables, 1/1/63-3/14/63, folder 3

of 4. Box 1

49061

DocId: 32629757

Page

---

## Page 2

sanned +44-08-97752941109.

(2) !1

DIA

SECRET

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

STAFF MESSAGE BRANCH

INCOMING MESSAGE

AF IN: 42784: (10 Mar 63) R/eld

Pg 1 of 4

ACTION: JCS DIA-CIIC-10, DIA-25, NIN-9

INFO

: J2-1, J3-5; J5-1, SACSA-I, JRG-2; NMCC-2, NWSB-1, SEC DRF=8,

WHITE HOUSE-3,

SDLO-4 (85) JOS FILEI, XOP-I, XOPX-4, ACIO-3S ORO-ZI

SMB D 087:

DE RUEPIA 102A

RUWSCR-T COMPHIBGRU THREE

0 1009072

FM CIA WASHDC

TO RUCBCR/CG EIGHTEENTH AIRBORNE

RUCBCR/CG USA SPWARCEN FT BRAGG NC

RUCBOR/STRAC FT BRAGG

RUCDBG/ACIC "ST LOUIS MO

RUCDALB/CINCONAD. ENT AFB COLO

RUCDSQ/FTD WAFB DAYTON OHIO

RUCKCF/COMPHIBGRU FOUR

RUCKCF/COMPHIBGRU TWO

RUCKHC/C INCLANT

RUCKHC/CINCLANTFLT

RUCKHC/LANT INICEN

RUCKHD/CG FMFLANT

RUCKHF /C OMPHI BLANT

RUCKUD/COMDR KEY WEST FORCES

RUCRC/ARLANT FT MONROE VA

RUCSBR/SAC OFFUTT AFB OMAHA NEB

RUCSBR/544TH AEROSPACE RTECHWG OFFUTT AFB OMAHA NEB

RUCV SM/ 4D8ĐTH SRW, LAUGHLIN AFB, TEXAS

RUEADX/COMDR TAC LAFBVA

RUEAHQ/HQS USAF WASHDC

RUEAHQ/DIA WASHDO/CIIC-3-A-2

RUEAHQ/DIA PROD CIR

RUEAHQ/ JCS/J-2 WASHDC

RUEAJK/COM NINETEENTH AIR FORCE

RUEAJK/4444TH RIS SHAW AFB SC

RUECEM/CMC (CODE A0-2C)

RUECW/DNI WASHDC

RUEKC/ JACE AUCC FT RITCHIE MD

RUEKC/HQS USAF (ADV) AJCC FT RITCHIE MD

RUEKDL/CINCSTRIKE MCDILL AFB FLA

RUEKMJ/ JACE AIRBORNE ANDREWS AFB MD

RUEKVDA/ JACE AFLOAT NORFOLK VA

RUEPCR/ DIRNSA

(Reproduction of this message in whole or in part is prohibited without approval of THE OFFICE OF-PRIMARY INTEREST.)

COPY NO.

SECRET

FORM

AFHO JAN 62 0 - 309b

PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF

THIS FORM MAY BE USED.

NN 49061 DocId: 32629757 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

STAFF MESSAGE BRANCH

INCOMING MESSAGE

AF IN: 42784 (10 Mar 63)

RUEPDA/ACSI- IW. DA WASHDC

RUEPDA/AMS

(AAIA)

RUHAF S/CINCUSARPAC FORT SHAFTER HAWAII

RUHLKM/HQ PACAF HICKAM

AF B HAWAII

RUHPA/C INCPAC

RUHPB/CINCPACFLT PEARL HARBOR HAWAII

RULBCRADIO 15 ND

R UL GGCR/C OM NAVBASE GTMO

RULGN/C OMCAR IBSEAFRON

RUL GN/ DIO 10 ND

RUWDG/C OMPHI BPAC

RUWSCR/COMPHIBGRU THREE

DA GRNC

Pg 2 of 4

SECRET

CITE CIA-Z-383

THE FOLLOWING IS FROM THE NATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC INTERPRETATION CENTER.

PRELIMINARY SCAN OF BRASS KNOB MISSION 3476, DATED 9 MARCH 1963,

REVEALS THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION:

TORRENS, MILITARY COMPLEX

AT THE REFORMATORY = 25 LARGE, 1D MEDIUM, AND 5 SMALL TENTS,

9 VAN TRUCKS, AND 6 UNIDENTIFIED VEHICLES.

AT THE MOTOR

PARK AND BILLETING AREA 03 NM SOUTH OF THE REFORM-

ATORY - 9 LARGE, 19 MEDIUM, AND ONE SMALL TENT.

NO APPARENT

CHANGE IN COUNT AND DEPLOYMENT OF VEHICLES/ PIECES OF EQUIPMENT

IN AREA.

AT THE MOTOR PARK .7 NM SSW OF THE REFORMATORY - ONE MEDIUM

AND 5 SMALL TENTS. NO APPARENT CHANGE IN THE COUNT AND DEPLOY

MENT OF VEHICLES/ PIECES OF EQUIPMENT.

AT THE MOTOR PARK .9 NM SE OF THE REFORMATORY SO 52 CARGO TRUCKS,

9 CARGO TRAILERS, 4 UTILITY TRUCKS, AND 119 UNIDENTIFIED VEHICLES.

AT THE AAA SITE 1.5 NM SSE OF THE REFORMATORY • SITE REMAINS

UNOCCUPIED, BUT 6 AAA GUNS ARE PARKED IN AREA.

GAP IN PHOTO

COVERAGE PRECLUDES IDENTIFICATION OF ASSOCIATED VEHICLES AND

TENTS®

ur. in part is prohibited without approval of THE OFFICE OF PRIMARY INTEREST.)

SECRET

COPY NO.

FORM

AFHQ SAN 62 0-309 b

PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF

THIS FORM MAY BE USED.

NH 49061 DocId:32629757 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

STAFF MESSAGE BRANCH

INCOMING MESSAGE

AF IN: 42784 (10 Mar 63)

pg 3 of. 4

AT THE BILLETING AREA 109 NM SOUTH OF THE REFORMATORY == 13 LARGE,

7 MEDIUM, AND 15 SMALL TENTS, AND APPROXIMATELY 9D VEHICLES/

PIECES OF EQUIPMENT.

AT THE MOTOR PARK 102 NM SW OF IHE REFORMATORY = 13 PROBABLE

TANKS/SP GUNS, 19 CARGO TRUCKS, AND 4 UNIDENTIFIED VEHICLES.

FRAMES R L/305, 310 CLEAR

20 SANTIAGO DE LAS VEGAS AREA, MILITARY CAMP

FACILITIES INCLUDE 44 LARGE, 11 MEDIUM, AND 15 SMALL TENTS. THE

9-GUN AND 6-GUN AAA SITES REMAIN OCCUPIED. VEHICLES/PIECES OF

EQUIPMENT • 12 TANKS/SP GUNS 82 OF WHICH ARE IN THE DRIVER

TRAINING AREA', 5 PROBABLE FROG MISSILE TRANSPORTERS, 3

TRACKED VEHICLES, 5 PROBABLE TRUCK-MOUNTED TREADWAY BRIDGES,

AND APPROXIMATELY 25 UNIDENTIFIED VEHICLES. NUMEROUS ADDITIONAL

VEHICLES/PIECES OF EQUIPMENT IN WOODS.

FRAMES R/ 3228. 325 CLEAR

3o ARTEMISA, MILITARY CAMP

SCATTERED CLOUDS AND CLOUD SHADOW PRECLUDE INTERPRETATION.

FRAMES R/Z6D, 265, 270

40 HOLGUIN AREA, MILITARY CAMP

CLOUD COVEREDO

5. REMEDIOS AREA, MILITARY CAMP

(Reproduction of thra message in whole or in part is prohibited without approval of THE OFFICE OF PRIMARY INTEREST.)

SECRET

COPY NO.

FORM

AFHO SAN 62 0 - 309b

PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF

THIS FORM MAY BE USED.

HH 49061 DocId: 32629757

Page

4

---

## Page 5

RET

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

STAFF MESSAGE BRANCH

INCOMING MESSAGE

AF IN: 42784 (10 Mar 63)

pg: 4.of 4

HEAVY CLOUDS, CLOUD SHADOW, AND POOR IMAGE QUALITY PRECLUDE

INTERPRETATION.

FRAMES R L/401

60 SAN JULIAN AIRFIELD

NO UNUSUAL ACTIVITY NOTED. SCATTERED CLOUDS AND HEAVY CLOUD

SHADOW LIMIT INTERPRETATION.

FRAMES R185, 9D

7o HAVANA PORT

THE ADMIRAL NAKHIMOV IS NOW IN PORT AND THE GRUZIYA IS STILL IN

FRAMES L/324, 329, 334 CLEAR.

SCP• 1

NOTE: ADV CY TO JCS AND DIA AND NIN.

BICLUDED FROM AUTOWATIC REGRADING:

DOD DIR. 5200.10 DOES NOT APPLY

(Reproduction of this message in whoic or in part is prohibited without approval of THE OFFICE OF PRIMARY INTEREST.)

AFHO SANEL 0-309b

PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF

THIS FORM MAY BE USED.

SECRET

COPY NO.

HH 49061

DocId: 32629757

Page 5

---

