# docid-32290857-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10206-10133

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-12-288

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

01/22/1962

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLING, PROSTITUTION, ACT, INVEST, WEEKLY

- SUMMARY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

19

---

## Page 2

FBI

Date:

1/22/62

Transmit the following in

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Coon

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-16)

SAC, DALLAS. (94-55A-SUB)

BUBJECT:

CRIMINAL, INIELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUNNARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel, 1/15/62.

Re: MARION ROBERT RAIF, aka.

AR (DL 92-39)

08 1/15/62, PCI GLENN H. RAINES advised SA ROBERT

M. BARRETT that RAIF had recently given PCI his address as

P.O. Box 171904 E. Atlanta Station, Atlanta, Ga. and he is

now driving a new Lincoln Continental. RAIF advised PCI

that he was never going to return to Dallas as the "pickings"

were too good in Atlanta.

PCI. furnished the address of

RAIF's associate JAMES BENNETT WAAGE as 121 Michigan Ave. ;

Decatur, Ga, phone DR 3-1571.

On 1/18/62, SA DEL D.

DRAKE obtained information

that SHIRLEY JEAN LUCK, wife Of RAIF's associate JOHN OSCAR LUCK

Bureau

I - Atlanta (Info)

1 - Dallas

(92-39)

REC- 124

1

Dallas

(166-21)

• Dallas

(92 222)

629-12-

288

•Dallas

(166-36)

20N

• Dallas

(92 330)

_ Dallas

(92-292)

Dallas

(162-37)

• JAN 25:1962

1

Dallas

{162-95)

1.

Dallas

(162-96)

1: - Dallas

(162-109)

1.=

Dallas

(162-129)

• Dallas

(137-387)

I i Dallas

(137-1104)

1 - Dallas

(94-55A- SUB)

RMB/11

(18) C G

Approved.

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

---

## Page 3

DI 94 55A - SUB

had propositioned a Dallas detective for a prostitution date.

It had been determined she had recently come to Dallas from

California but wher interviewed had denied that the purpose

• her trip was for prostitution.

On 1/18/62 DL-83-C advised

that the subjeet had been brought to CI by Dallas attorney

JIMMY MARTIN and Introduced on about 12/30/61. At that time

subject had advised informant that

she had contacted some

prostitutes 1e California prior to leaving there about

prostitution activities in Dallas

and had been told to

contact MARTIN who would introduce her to the right persons.

She

told CI that she had been working since her arrival in

Dallas filling dates for $50 to $100 each but that business

was slow.: She further stated that she would work daytime

call dates for $25 per day. She furnished her phone number

as FR 6-8720 but stated she was moving and would contact

informant, furnishing new phone number

Informant was

advised

to obtain this information as soon as possible.

Above

information furnished to LT. REVILL and DEP.

MORGAN on

1/18/62.

Re :.

EDDIE TOM GREEN, aka.

AR: (DL 92-260)

On 1/15/62, SA BARRETT observed that GREEN'S

apartment was vacant and had a for rent sign on it. The

landlord, LARRY E. SCAMMEL was immediately contacted and

identified the subject as "Mr. WALLACE! who with his redheaded

wife moved into the apartment on 11/15/61 but had moved out

without notice on 1/13/62 owing $50, rent. SCAMMEL stated

that GREEN always paid his rent in $100 bills but had no

information as to where he had moved.

There were several

letters and circulars left in the apartment addressed to

RAYMOND G. CLARK and also information that GREEN had obtained

utility service under this name.

On a piece of scratch

paper furnished by SCAMMEL were 8 telephone numbers which

are presently being checked and one of which is listed to

Dallas. top hoodlum JAMES HENRY DOLAN (DI 92-292) •

Neighbor's

also advise that GREEN had recently been driving

the 1955

red and white Buick,

Oklahoma 36-3488. They furnished

information also that indicated one of GREEN's frequent

visitors was DOLAN.

It was noted one of the phone numbers

found on the paper was TA 4-1954. On 1/19/62, SA MANNING C.

CLEMENTS, while checking

DOLAN's residence, observed a note

on the door saying that "My new phone number is

EX 8-7198

and I have only had it a

few days" signed "Dave". A check

of phone company records show that persons having EX 8-7198

---

