File #:

b2Q-— NbBIS

Serial Scope:

1246 1367

1369
13-71 Tilers. [BTL
1379
1391
1394 TLL (3893

1400, [4eo¥

1402, 1¥23



8 6
OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.G. 20530

~ ue if

- FEB 19 1976

TO: Jo A. Mintz, Assistant Director
al Counsel Division

deral Bureau of Investigation

Steven K. Blackhurst | a mm
' Assistant Special Counsel for Srenchi-

SB Intelligence Coordination “.Y \
| eet

SUBJECT: SSC Request Dated February 19, 1976

FROM:

sneer

Attached is a letter from the SSC dated

February 19, 1976. Please arrange for an appropriate, lo ee
response. ao

ue

Myr Ibo
f INDORMATION CONTAINED
ae rcanncctey

Lele

i. 40
sramr wos d 16 875 - j4oS

ne

cp FEB 26 1976
fexeu0sute =

ec: Paul Daly

8 SAR Bocf8 762989578 Page 2



TO: John A, Mintz, Assistant Director
Legal Counsel Division
Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: Steven K. Blackhurst
Assistant Special Counsel for
Intelligence Coordination

SUBJECT: SSC Request Dated February 19, 1976

Attached is a letter from the SSC dated
February 19, 1976. Please arrange for an appropriate
response,

pA lb

AULILINT ORATION CONTARIED

Sepa cee ALmICHL

cet Paul Daly

‘NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 3
a a =



‘ FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN. :
JOHN 6, TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN|
PHILIPA. HART, MICH, HOWARD H. DAKER, SWMQDENN.,
WALTER F, MONDALE, MINN, BARRY GOLOWATER, ARIZ.
WAUTER D. HUDDLESTON, XY. CHARLES MCC. MATHIAS, JR MD,

ROBERT MORGAt, N.C. RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA

Se aera  — Mnited Blales Benake

FREDERICK A. 0, SCHWARZ, JR», CHIEF COUN:
“CURTIS R. SMOTHERS, HIROSIFY COUNSEL, SELECT COMMITTEE TO :
: STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT To 5S, RES. 21, 4TH CONGRESS)
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20510

February 19, 1976

.Michael E. Shaheen, Jr., Esq. 7

Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination
Office of the Deputy Attorney General .
U. S. Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Dear Mike: i

The Select Committee requests delivery of cer-
tain materials pertaining to the Secret Army Organization
and the role of an FBI informant therein, which materials
have been identified ‘to the FBI by Mr. Sam Bouchard of
the Committee staff. i

Sincerely,
+ S009}
John T. Ellif£

Director
Domestic Intelligence Task Force

MDP 6 a

“ALLIBIINFORMATION CONTAINED

EE an ve

ba We 375 1423

A, et
were

NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 4
ee eee



o @

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

FEB 17 1976

mn A. Mintz, Assistant Director
gal Counsel Division.’.
ederal Bureau of Invesy¥ i

gation

Steven K. Blackhurst

Assistant Special Counsel for
Intelligence Coordination \ Qepatin
"7 wi] uw
i ee .

CAL
n
a
ow
Cy
isi
a
wm
2B
(s}
ce
o
tal
co
oO
Lad
o
S
co
oO
Ly
ty
J
ov
n
ec
»
Hq
-
5
fn
wo

i
:

Attached is a letter from the SSC indicating
‘ that the Committee will make available for review
by persons from the Department those draft reports
which relate to activities by the Department. The
purpose of that review would be to identify any
classification or similar problems in the draft re-
Ports. Two draft reports. are presently ready for
review. :

3/e/

Please designate appropriate persons from the
Bureau to review these reports and to advise the
Committee as to classification or similar problems.

we pera tiie Mak

“cee

le Th

\Ha/n ole seinen erates

Apsehoos een’ aatriacel pepe
w eft ae bao 31st - 13

a ve MDR sia Go FEB 26 1976 - aA A ap 4
FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
Se Ee

eee eee

G ;

NW 55149 Pcl? s8e578 Page 5

W/ KE

-mr)

bem

ec: Paul Daly

ave



kL

TO: John A. Mintz, Assistaat Director
Legal Counsel Division
Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: Steven K. Blackhurst
Assistant Special Counsel for
Intelligence Coordination

SUBJECT: SSC Letter Dated February 17, 1976

Attached is a letter from the SSC indicating
that the Committee will make available for review
by persons from the Department those draft reports
which relate to activities by the Department. The
purpose of that review would be to identify any
classification or sinilar problems in the draft re-
ports. Two draft reports are presently ready for
review,

Please designate appropriate persons from the
Bureau to review these reports and to advise the
Committee as to classification or similar problems.

MDR |b
Saree ORRRONT COURAB ED

ier spar [ENC

ee: Paul Daly

NW 55149 Docld:32989578 Page 6



[FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN :
- JOHN 6. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRM,
PHILIP A. HART, MICH. HOWARD H. BAKER, a

WALTER F. MONDALE, WENN
WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, KY.
ROBERT MORSAN, WAG.

ir bine Wnited Slates Sena
eaeryd G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR hiss e! oe od ere: @
CURTIS R, SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL - Sebel COMME TER TO)

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
(PunsuANT To s. RES, 21, 91TH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C, 20510

February 17, 1976

Michael Shaheen,: Jr. cies - ‘
Counsel
Office of Professional Responsibility -

\ Department of Justice (Room 4313)

Washington, D.C.
Dear Mike:

This will confirm our telephone conversation con-
cerning the procedure whereby we will make available to
you, or your designee, copies of draft reports relating
to the Justice Department. As we discussed, the pur-
pose is so that any classification (or other such
problems, e.g., the identity of informers) which may be

y

inadvertently raised in our reports can be identified.
The first two drafts relating to the FBI are ready. °
They are:

‘

1. “The Use of Informers in FBI Domestic
Investigations"; and

2. “Domestic CIA and FBI Mail Opening Programs".
(Substantial portions of which relate to the
FBI.) :

I would appreciate it if someone very promptly could con-
tact Frederick D. Baron, my assistant (224-1746) , who
will arrange the details. of location and time for the
review.

Sincerely yours,
' ry

“ MDA We Fredérick A. @& Schwarz, Jr. Prati ~
AI PBITNFORMATION CONTAINED GUS,
oy” RectiveD

e 2)
Y FEB LY i970 C\

SJ

NW 55149 DocIa:32989578 Page 7
Yam i



7 MDA Ile
¥ February 12, eta a

1. £9 a9
Thank you very inuch-for-_the-two-létters you sent’ <2 :

to Jim Adams about the remarks made by Senator Morgan.
Ihave seen him briefly since he made these remarks and
plan te see him next week again to talk over the reason for
these remarks at some length. As noted in his response to We
you, apparently he has come to this feeling as a result of the ae a4
so-called | : :

“unchallenged. matters which he has had reported
to him as a member of the Senate Select Committee. It is
true that some mistakes of the Bureau were brought cut, bat
the over-all performance of the Bureau has, as you said, been
well above that which could even be expected of us and cer-
tainly has. been most. contributory to the safety of this nation
throughout.the years,'.To categorize us as "rotten to the core”
and to. indicate that we are a great threat to the United States ©
miss the mark tremendously and are completely without foun-
dation:*: I will-so inform him, but apparently he has made up
owt ee
conve’

es © (qgain, thank you and I hope that you persist in-y.
Dep. AD Ad etiorts to come to our "Support when our credibility has besn

Seo — ©? 6 2 Mb 3A= 16/g0X ii

WoT RECORDED “incerely,
46 apR 14 1979 ce Charente.

7 (po CMEEDM, (3) 4 mee a
met yer , gars on © Ri vopy Eade for Corres:
and ae Section ad on
aniolt, Se
MAIL, room (J f TELETYPE UyyR La on Wia af f?: v ae

ARR TTR SGI 9 ase, 8



‘OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 s010-106 .

ea @
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT :
Memorandum
TO : Mr} J. B. Adams DATE:February 12, 1976
va : Legal counsel tele
\ a aE
lia “hele.
YECTE SENSTUDY 75

Spec. Inv. _

Training
Telephone Rm. —
Director See'y

The memorandum of W. 0. Cregar to
Mr. W. R. Wannall,. captioned as above and dated February 6,
1976, briefly reviewed a speech made on the floof of the-~
Senate by Sénator Frank Church. The speech was entitled
"Government Adherence to thé’ Law: A Call For a Temporary
Special aoopan on Intelligence Abuses." This MMOL SDS
lum stated the subject of a special procecutor would be .t
subject of a separate memorandum prevared by_the Office of

egal Counsel.

As you may recall, in :
memorandum from the Director, FBL, stant Attorngéy.
“Geaiéral; Office of Legislative Affairs, captioned "Watergate
Reorganization and Reform Act of 1975, S.495, 94th Congress,
1st Session," we deferred to the Department the question of
whether, there should bea special prosecutor as envisionéd~
‘by that bill. eee

On Friday, February 6, 1976, the Attorney,

General, of the United States testified before the-Senate
Government Operations Committee.” The Attorney General.

Stated he did not agree with Senator Church's proposal
that _a_special prosecutor should be apy

x ointed to investigate
past activities of the CIA.and the FBI. SEE ceee eee
jabato

A maine payin ne od
RECOMMENDATION: STIOL RECO b 2- f / “3 ZS . Ye"
For information. “4 Vey yy

fa \ 4s

if \ a /
1 - Mr. Wannall Le ow?
1 - Mr. Creg: 1 & 5
1 - Mr. Moore. #e We EB RE 7G
1 - Mr. Mintz mechs enone scant
1 - Mr. Daly
1 - Mr. Miller

yon We Rn

(8) Pies ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
: HEREIN IS, UNCLASS :
0 HRB aon fy

S4MAR1 1976

55149 DocId:32989578 Page 9



PLAINTEXT TELETYPE NITEL

. 2-23-76

‘- Mr. Walsh
- Mr. Mintz
- Mr. Wannall
Mr. Cregar

aul

_ BOSTON

won |e

Pee ee
1

FROM DIRECTOR FBI ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED Se gered
HEREIN | eeoirl a auaiatieatee!
EN@TUDY 75 Ba Alm Ly,
REBUCAL 2-23-76. ©
THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE HAS REQUESTED THAT |
SA FRANCIS T. LEONARD BE MADE AVAILABLE IN WASHINGTON, D. C., u

FOR INTERVIEW BY THAT COMMITTEE ON 2-25-76. THE INTERVIEW
WILL CONCERN HIS KNOWLEDGE OF THE BUREAU'S INVESTIGATION

OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN

LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE, AND STANLEY DAVID LEVISON. SA LEONARD

SHOULD ARRANGE TO ARRIVE IN WASHINGTON IN TIME TO
reC-00 G2- f/f

BRIEFED BY REPRESENTATIVES OF THE LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION

AND INTELLIGENCE DIVISION AT 9:00 A.M., 2-25-76, IN So FEB 2¢ 1976

T 104 STDERAL, BUREAU OF INVESLEL ewe Sommeat

ST EUS cguitunteations Section ,

: ; 2 1976
1 - Personnel File SA Francis T. Leonard eee) at VT

i TELERYPE

ROOM 3658, JEH BUILDING.

rv
, peas NOTE: Michael Epstein, -Senate Select Committee staff

Dep ADAus. + #Member, made the request forthe interview of Leonard. "
Dep. AD... This communication will serve as approval for the waiver \

inroeiihsHutttt of existing employment. agreement signed by SA Leonard for
Comp. Sy. purposes of this interview.. Referenced phone, galkvalerted i
| eat. Affairs ASAC rd Strain of this réquest. :
oe ai qe ae aa

o 129 j i)

teeta.  PVD:dkg (10)

Spee. Inv.

2 a ‘
Telephone Rin. — : Y
Director See'y MAIL ROOM(_] ‘TELETYPE UNIT GPO : 1075 829

SBESP 9 Bogggi32939578 Page 10
OP re OD ae ches

Training

Lego! Coun.



Noy

. . > 7 Mr, J. A. Mintz ~~

| “ (+ Mr. P. V. Daly)

PLAINTEXT TELETYPE NITEL
1- Mr. W. R. Wannall

SALT LAKE CITY FEBRUARY 23, 1976

/} TO S.
‘ ar DIRECTOR FBI (62-116395) Mr. J. G, Deegan

= Mr. W. O. Cregar
sun DY 75. ~ Mr, T. J. McNiff

Pee
z

i
t

~~} REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) HAS REQUESTED THAT

FORMER SPECIAL AGENT (SA) STEVEN L. CHRISTENSEN BE MADE AVAIL~-

D MEGE

ABLE FOR STAFF INTERVIEW CONCERNING HIS KNOWLEDGE OF THE
SECRET ARMY ORGANIZATION. BUREAU RECORDS INDICATE LAST KNOWN
iN DRESS FOR THIS FORMER EMPLOYEE TO BE POST OFFICE BOX 2,

A? KaNosH, UTAH,

SAC OR ASAC, SALT LAKE CITY, IS REQUESTED TO PERSONALLY

)
15 DD
XC,

FU,

CONTACT FORMER SA CHRISTENSEN AND ADVISE HIM OF SSC DESIRE TO
INTERVIEW HIM, HE SHOULD BE ADVISED THAT, IF SSC INITIATES

CONTACT, FORMER SA CHRISTENSEN BEFORE CONSENTING TO INTERVIEW
SHOULD CONTACT BUREAU'S LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION BY COLLECT CALL

TO BE ADVISED OF HIS RIGHTS, THE PARAMETERS “OF THE PROPOSED
RECEO wy engl Oe
INTERVIEW AND TO SECURE A RELEASE FROM 1 HIS CONFIDENTIALT' cat

“A he ay regs O73
Asst. aan ar DIEGO (AIRMAIL) >.

a

FESenIRL SuUREAL OF IWVESHCATED.4 Ayo W ayy,
é COMMUNICATIONS SECTION Ww My ell
Genet —— TIM: hb [hh »

pelea <>) FER 22 1978 / SEE NOTE PAGE 2"
Caeetey ae 39/44

MS_ S28 ts
Plan a Eval FET Ye Ee

cen t yr
nasa MAIL ROOMC—] ‘TELETYPE UNIT

wSo4 FEB 25 1978.50578 Page ii

GPO: 1975 0+ ee



NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page i2

PAGE TWO 62+116395

AGREEMENT, HEADQUARTERS SHOULD BE ADVISED BY TELSTYPE
AFTER FORMER SA CHRISTENSEN HAS BEEN CONYACTED IN LINE
WITH THE ABOVE INSTRUCTIONS. IF THIS FORMER EMPLOYEE NO
LONGER RESIDES IN THE SALT LAKE CITY TERRITORY OR IS
TEMPORARILY AWAY, A LEAD, FOLLOWING THE ABOVE INSTRUCTIONS ,
SHOULD BE SENT £0 APPROPRIATE OFFICE IMMEDIATELY WITH A
COPY OF THE COMMUNICATION DESIGNATED FOR HEADQUARTERS.
COPY AIRMATLED TO SAN DIEGO.

NOTE:

Referenced Bureau teletype 5/2/75 was a general
instruction to all SAC's concerning the SSC inquiry into
this Bureai'soperations and this Bureau's cooperation with
that body, Former SA Christensen was the handling Agent
for former Bureau informant Howard Berry Godfrey, who
furnished this Bureau considerable information concerning
the Secret Army Organization (SAO). Bureau investigation
of the SAO has recently been receiving considerable publicity
in the San Diego press,



i 2} OPTIONAL FORM No, 10 s010-106
4 shu tvea Soman,
‘GSA GEN, REG, NO. 27

ENT
UNITED STATES GOVERNM: 1 - Mr.J.B, Adams

Memorandum 2-Mr. J. A, elie herp y asters Dies
ah 1- Mr. W. RB. Wannall
Wy 5TO ir. We. B. anna wie DATE: 2/17/76

Mr. R. L,. Shackelford
Mr. J. G. Deegan
Mr. S. S. Mignosa
Mr. F. J. Cassidy
Mr. W. 0, Cregar )
Mr. T. J. McNiff

FROM : R. L, § ackelgora

SUBJECT :\ SENSTUBY 75...

Be RR
Parrrad

PURPOSE: \
To advise that!Senate Select Committee (SSC) Execut
Session was held on 2/13/76, where the role of the FBI in pa

"domestic intelligence investigations" as well as the role that

the FBI should play in intelligence type investigations of

domestic subversive organizations in the future was discussed.”

8SC requested copy of instructions sent to field by FBIHQ
regarding Privacy Act matters which has a bearing on
investigations of domestic groups.

DETAILS:

dated 2/9/76, concerning SSC Executive Session held on 2/6
at which time it was decided that an additional Executive
would be held at a future date, regarding "domestic intellig
investigations eee

Reference is made to Cregar to Mr. Wannall on 2/6
"Tj
ssion

Logal Coun.
Telephone Rm. —
Director See'y —

Dep. AD Inv. —

Admin. —___
Comp. Syst. —
Ext. Affairs —
Files & Com. —

Loboratory
Plon. & Eval. —

Spee. Inv.
Training

ive
st

)

we

ence

An §8SC Executive Session was held from approximately

10:55 a.m., until 12:45 p.m., 2/13/76. Representing the SSC

were Chief Counsel Frederick A. 0. Schwartz , Jdr., who acted ae

Chairman, John Elliff, Mark Gitenstein and Michael Epstein.
U.S. Senators were present. Bu “girl aaa poh] Wes 95

testimony were Assistant Direc” ame 14,3 95-

Inspector—Deputy Assistant Director i

BU

Section Chiefs Joseph G. Deegan and Robert L. Shacke LESve ope em

the Intelligence Division and Inspector John B. Hotis,

Legal Counsel Division. <% FEB 24 1976

At the outset of the Session, Mr. Schwartz ekpt
that this was a continuation of the Executive Session on 2/6

the Bureau's responsibility for domestic intelligence invest
tion§ which goes beyond ciiminal investigations. He noted
that at the closing of the past Executive Session,

Mr. Shackelford had stated the Communist Party, USA oo
62-116905 MPs ynfoNcoNTANED pale
GJLirsm ~  HEREINISYNGLAS: NY OLA Kes o

(11) J DATE CONTINUZD - OVER

iw

o [# F 4
8 4 FEB25 1976

NW 55149 DoclId:32989578 Page 13

j 16
Ww in an effort to assist the SSC in drafting legislation outlining

iga-

Pad



Memorandum to Mr. W. R, Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

and the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) had been involved in
planning or organizing numerous large demonstrations in the
country and he desired to continue this discussion. A list of
major demonstrations with resulting damages and arrests which
occurred in the U.S. during the past ten years involving
subversive groups was furnished by Mr. Shackelford. A
discussion followed regarding the role of the FBI in gathering
intelligence information concerning the demonstratiors as well
as the dissemination of the information which had been obtained.
Mr. Schwartz questioned the authority of the FBI in investigating
infiltrated groups such as the National Peace Action Coalition
(NPAC) and the Peoples Coalition for Peace and Justice (PCPJ)
even though both groups were either dominated or Jnfiuerced’

by the CPUSA or the SWP.

A discussion then followed as to what effect the
enactment of the Privacy Act has on the investigation by the
FBI of domestic subversive groups. A request was made
concerning instructions which have been sent to the field by
FBIHQ concerning this matter.

The Session then turned to investigation of extremist
groups and the use of informants in these groups to obtain
advance information to prevent acts of violence. Specific
cases of this type were read into the record by Mr. Deegan.
Mr. Gitenstein questioned the authority of the Bureau to
Place informants into these extremist groups without the
ingredient of violence present.

This Executive Session was adjourned at approximately
12:45 p.m. and no request was made at that time for another
Executive Session.

OBSERVATIONS :

From statements made by Mr. Schwartz and other SSC
staff members present, with the possible exception of Mr. Mark
Gitenstein, it appeared that these individuals continue to be
opposed to legislation authorizing Bureau investigations in the
domestic intelligence area unless the threat of violeme is
imminent. Mr. Gitenstein in his discussion concerning the use

-2-

NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 14



NW 55149 Docld:32989578 Page 15

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

of informants in extremist groups appeared to want to
include in the record acts of violence which have been
prevented because of infiltration by informants in these
groups. It does appear, therefore, that he may be more
favorably inclined towards the Bureau's position in these
matters.

RECOMMENDATION:

That the SSC Unit, Intelligence Division, communicate
with a member of the SSC staff regarding Privacy Act material
and/or instructions desired by the Committee.

daa aM
2

J



?
%
@

proceedings by

L

"ed to official

wer request and is not for dissemt-

Hts use 23 line

gy

y
3
8
8
3
8
ig
8
8
R
>
z
8
g

maT

This document is prepared in response to yo
nel without the express approval of the FBI .

your Commitiee and the co:

nation outside your Co:

“sy

Assoc. Di. ss Ran, ws chaytshe ALLINE RMATION CON TARE F
Enclosures. (2) * nee iti OS SSY Sp AAW’
62-116395 Vaile

< i- cia :
Files & Com, wf ha
cen... L = The Deputy Attorney General Seste, Gra eeeraees (anseeeey
feirccnon i Attention: Michael Z, Shaheen, Jr. ee Vaeirert
Intell. Special Counsel for N are 2
Laborotory —_ a i Ile te
CAREY Pa Pre intelligence poones settee tees oe ee 2

ae 137-4853 / ye wv : pole
wietaze “spp itek_(16) (2% SEE NOTE PAGE 3 $é

MAIL ROOM[_] ‘TELETYPE UNIT [_) GPO : 1975 © - 569-920

8 “SARS LIB: s0o570 Page 16

SEpenSr seeeneee

Fe

1 - Mr. J. B. Adams N

2-Mr. J. A. Mintz ne
jo Peto Hee ; (1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)
b> Wb BIS (B99 1-ub. W. R. Wannall as
The Attorney General 3 December 19, 1975 ¥&
ren)
Director, FBI 1- Mr. D. W. Moore INS
1 - Mr. H. E. Helgeson
1 -Mr. W. 0. Cregar
U. S. SENATE SELECT COMITTEE 1 | vr. 3. G. Deegan
ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 1 _ Mr. T. J. Seabaugh
1-Mr. J. D. Powell

This is to call to your attention a most serious
breach of the confidentiality that must be afforded the
material and information that this Bureau has furnished to
the U. S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Enclosed * eg

for your approval and delivery, preferably to SSC Chairman 8 t
Senator Frank Church personally, is a memorandum which sets ~2
forth this incident in detail for the SSC, states the $ as
seriousness with which this matter is viewed and which ea >
requests the SSC to advise whether they did, in fact, 3 ‘3
publicly disclose the identity of former FBI informant pellile
George F. Dorsett as alleged and if so, the basis for such @ >:
disclosure, 4. 4
Bye

George F. Dorsett was an FBI informant from
January, 1959, to October, 1970. He was discontinued as an
informant when his activity in the Klan ceased, at which t
his relationship with the Bureau continued to be excellent. He
has not been disclosed publicly as an FBI informant. Dorsett did
in fact separate from the United Klans of America (UKA) and
form the Confederate Knights of the Ku Klux Klan (CKKKK). He
formed the CKKKK on his own initiative; however, we utilized
this opposing Klan organization through Dorsett as a means
of disrupting and causing confusion and dissension within the



The Attorney General

The handling agent assisted Dorsett in
preparing a letter announcing his resignation from the UKA
and his formation of the CKKKK. This letter invited Dorsett's
friends in the Klan to join him in the CKKKK. A total of
41 chapters of the CKKKK were chartered; however, all of then
did not become effective operating chapters.

The documents delivered to the SSC were excised to
delete Dorsett's name as an informant. Charlotte airtel dated
éugust 22, 1967, and CG. D. Brennan memorandim to W. C. Sullivan
dated August 24, 1967, set forth the recommendation and
approval for the mailing of a letter from Dorsett to all Kian
units in North Carolina announcing his resignation from the UKA
and the formation of the CKKKK. Dorsett's name is deleted from
these documents; however, it is clear that the informant was
preparing the letter. Charlotte airtel to the Director
September 13, 1967, refers to the August 22, 1967, Charlotte
airtel and states that the referenced airtel recommended Bureau
approval for a letter to be mailed over the signature of
Reverend George F. Dorsett under the above conditions, Dorsett's
name is not deleted from this document. From the above
docunents Dorsett's identity can readily be established as the
FRI informant.

In the December 6, 1975, issue of the "Charlotte
Observer" a daily Charlotte, North Carolina, morning
newspaper there is a front page article captioned "FBI Started
41 North Carolina Klan Units, Morgan Says." In this article,
North Carolina Senator Robert Morgan, member of the SSC, said
the FBI organized 41 KKK units in North Carolina during the 1960's
as part of its campainn against the white supremacist group.
Morgan was also quoted as saying, "The vast majority of
people in the Klen in North Carolina were law-abiding citizens.

NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 17


The Attorney General

There may have been some violence, but we're not even sure
about that now." Morgan is further quoted as saying, There
is nothing basically wrong with having an informer in any
organization but when these informers do more than just listen,
when they instigate trouble, that's wrong." Morgan also said
the FBI financed the operations of the Federally organized
Klaverns,

As set forth in the enclosed memorandum, Mr. Dorsett
was interviewed on December 12, 1975, by Charlotte, North
Carolina, FBI Agents at which time he expressed his concern
for his personal safety and for his family as well, as well as
concern for the safety of his personal property.

4s stated above this matter is considered to be a
most serious breach of the confidentiality that must be afforded
the material and information that this Bureau has furnished to
the U, S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. It is
respectfully requested that the enclosed memorandum be
delivered to Senator Frank Church, Chairman of the Ssc,
personally, Please advise what action is taken concerning
this matter.

NOTE:

See Memorandum J. G. Deegan to Mr. W. R. Wannall,
prepared if ane bebe a 16/75.

nN NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 18



a
ale Mr. J. .

1
anit 2-Mr. J, A. Mintz
(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
1 - Mr. D. W. Moore
62-116395 1 - Mr. H. E. Helgeson

December 19, 1975
1 - Mr, W. 0. Cregar

@. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO
STUDY GOVERIMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

1- Mr. J. G. Deegan
1-Mr. T. J. Seabaugh

1 - Mr. J. D. Powell
This is to call attention to the following incident

~) Which is a most serious breach of the confidentiality that must
iw be afforded the material and information that this Bureau has
—S furnished to the U. S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence:
t

: The December 10, 1975, issue of the ‘Greensboro Daily
News," Greensboro, North Carolina, contains on page one an
article captioned "Greensboro Men Named As FBI Klan Informant,"
by Jack Betts, Daily News Washington Bureau. The article
States in part:

By SP. ak

INCLASSIFI

“Washington ~ A Greensboro man long active in the
Ku Klux Klan has been identified as an informant for the
Federal Bureau of Investigation’s campaign to disrupt the
KRK in North Carolina during the latter 1960's.

MDR Me

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERE|
DATE

"A Senate Intelligence Committee source said Tuesday
that George F. Dorsett, former Imperial Kludd (National Chaplain)
of the United Klans of America, was a paid FBI informant who,

“sa with the FBI's assistance, broke away from the Klan in 1967 to
¥ form a rival group.

4

ares "The source said Dorsett was named in FBI documents
Dep AD Ain. Obtained by the committee as the man whom the bureau had
Dep tom —  ceeruited to spy on the United Klan.

1 - Charlotte ‘ y

Files & Com, —
Gen, Inv.
Ident,
Inspection
Intell.
Loboratory ——

1 - 137-4853 ae F. Dorsett) iN

SDP:lek (15) \¢ le SEE NOTE PAGE 5 vt
Ns

pes
7 uv ans Ae Uy
prelate PS a- Mets / OR an ae

Director See’y MAIL ROOM] TELETYPE UNITE) guy,
NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 19 EQCLUSUBRE
Hee eee eet



RE: U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY
GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT
TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

“FBI documents obtained by the committee indicate
that Dorsett, who was disenchanted with KKK Grand Dragon
J. Robert Jones of Granite Quarry and with Imperiel Wizard
Robert Shelton of Tuscaloosa, Ala., was encouraged by the FBI
to leave the Klan in the summer of 1967 and form the
Confederate Knights ofthe Ku Klux Klan. The FBI helped
Dorsett draft.letters recruiting for the new group, according
to the committee source.

"According to the documents, the FBI's plan was to
haress the KKK and to dilute the influence of the United Klans
and to keep closer tabs on the new group.

"Sen, Robert Morgan, D. N.C., a member of the
committee said last week thet charters for some 41 new Klaverns
or chapters of the Confederate Klan were issued, but that not
all charters resulted in active new Klan groups."

A review of meterial delivered to the staff of the
Committee has determined that Committee Staff Member Barbara
Banoff accepted on August 28, 1975, copies of 212 serisls
releting to White Hate matters under the COINTELPRO requests
of the Committee. The following documents were included
among these 212 serisls:

_ Airtel from SAC, Charlotte, to Director, FBI,
dated May 9, 1967. (157-9-8-100)

Airtel from SAC, Charlotte, to Director, FBI,
dated May 31, 1967. (157-9-8-102)

NW 55149 DociId:32989578 Page 20


RE: U.S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY
GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT
TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Airtel from SAC, Birmingham, to Director, FBI,
dated June 14, 1967. (157-9-8-107)

Airtel from Director, FBI, to SAMs, Charlotte,
Atlanta and Birmingham, dated June 20, 1967.: (157.9-8-110)

Airtel from SAC, Charlotte, to Director, FBI,
dated June 14, 1967. (157-9-8-110)

Airtel from SAC, Charlotte, to Director, FBI,
dated June 28, 1967. (157-9-8-115)

Airtel from SAC, Charlotte, to Director, FBI,
dated June 23, 1967. (157-9-8-113)

: Airtel from Director, FBI, to SACs, Atlanta
and Charlotte, dated June 29, 1967. (157-9-8-114)

Airtel from Director, FBI, to sac, Charlotte,
dated August 25, 1967. (157.9-8-126)

Airtel from ‘SAC, Charlotte, to Director, FBI,
dated. August 22, 1967. (157-9-8-126)

Memorandum from C. D. Brennan to Mr. W. C. Sullivan, |
dated August 24, 1967, (157-9-8-127)

Airtel from SAC, Charlotte, to Director, FBI,
dated September 13, 1967. (157-9-8-128)

All of the above communications are captioned
"Counterintelligence Program, Internal Security, Disruption
of Hate Groups (United Klans of America, Inc., North Carolina."

-3-

NW 55149 DoclId:32989578 Page 21


o 6

RE: U. S, SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE To STUDY
GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT
TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Letter from SAC, Charlotte, to Director, FBI,
captioned ''Counterintelligence Program, Internal Security,
Disruption of Hate Groups (Confederate Knights of the Ku
Klux Klan), Charlotte Division," dated January 30, 1969.
(157-9 8-1 tel from Directoz, FBI, to SAC, Charlotte,
ceptioned “Counterintelligence Program, Disruption of Hate
Groups, Internel Security, Kacirl Matters (klan)," dated
September 25, 1967. (157-9-8-129)

A careful reading and comparison of these. documents
would lead to the identity of Dorsett as an FBI informent in
the menner described in the above article. The factual materiel
set forth in the article is contained in the above documents.
It is noted that the documents as delivered to the Committee
do not identify Mr. Dorsett as an FBI informent; however,. his
identity can be deduced from the combined documents. Oyr
records do not indicate that Mr, Dorsett's identity as an
informant has been disclosed in eny other manner. Mr. Dorsett
was interviewed by FBI Agents of the Charlotte, North Caroline,
FBI Office on December 12, 1975. Mr. Dorsett stated that
he felt "betrayed" by his government concerning the public
disclosure in the news media of his identity as an FBI source.
He recalled that he had always been assured that his identity

‘would always remein confidentiel end known only to the FBI.
‘He further stated thet as a result cf the public disclosure of
his identity as an FBI source in the "Greensboro Deily News"
on December 10, 1975, he has experienced great consternation
among his close friends and members of his family. He has
received harassing telephone calle. During one of these calls
the caller stated, “Tell that pimp to get his casket ready."
Mr, Dorsett expressed his concern for the personal safety
of himself and members of his: family, es well as concern for
the safety of his residence and personal property.

NW 55149 DoclId:32989578 Page 22


RE: U. S. SONATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY
GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT
TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

The disclosure of the identity of FBI informants
places these informants' lives in serious jeopardy as well
as subjecting them and their families to the Likelihood of
embarrassment and harassment within their communities.

Such disclosures have a most serious and detrimental effect

on other informants, who have just cause to question the
security of their past or present association with the FBI.
Fersons who might otherwise be inclined to furnish information
to the FBI, expecting their cooperation to be kept in =
confidence, are reluctant to de so when they see such
violations of the sanctity of FBI files and information.

The FBI has endeavored to cooperate fully and
candidly in making available to the Committee the documents
and information requested by the Committee. We have
insisted that the confidentiality of informants be
maintained. In view of this most serious breach of the
confidentiality of information furnished by the FBI to the
Comittee and in an effort to determine the nature of it,
you are requested to advisé whether the U. S. Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence or any member or staff member thereof,
is responsible for the public disclosure of former FBI ‘
informant George F. Dorsett as alleged and if so, the basis for
such disclosure.

1 - The Attorney General

NOTE:

See memorandum J. G. Deegan to Mr. W. R. Wannall
prepared by ioe dated 12/16/75.
7
(

CPs
_ NW 55149 poora Wagilagi’ ofage 23



7

7 “
cofhtonkt roma NO. 10 5010=106
MAY 1962 EDITION

* -GSAGEN, REG, NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT Assoc. Dire —
1 - Mr. J. B. Adams pee ablaeie
Memorandum 2- Ur. J. A. Mintz esuie

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)
WW 1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
fo Mr. W. Rh wannall Wt nie arate
1 - Mr. D. W. Moore
7 1 - Mr. W. 0. Cregar
FROM -W, 0. Crégar yo as 1 - Mr. J. G. Deegan aia
1 - Mr. T. J. McNiff ape” Laboratory

Plan. & Eval.

Ext. Affolrs —__

SUBJECT:y, §,“SEWATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC)

Tolophono Rm. —
Director Sec’y

By memorandum dated 12/ 19/75, you were advised of

a serious bréach of confidentiality in the handling of FBI bag

documents that had been delivered to the SSC. This memorandum,

detailed the disclosure in the North Carolina press of former”

inmfotmant George Ff. Dorsett iid “specifically Attributed A.

i Btiread document s cee to” the SSC, .. 6The YL
inemorandum a.

fie e dum For delivery to SS¢ S
Chairman Senator Frank “Chutch Etat ling ths boxe incidents
‘(Coptes-of both temoranda aé attached).

\
In view of the Director's scheduled conference a ay
with Senator Robert Morgan _o Of North Garolina, who is a member q
“of the ssc, 6fforts were made on 2/9776 to determine whe
above memorandum Rad been de delivered. to Senator Church. It was
ascechained that ‘the memorandum been delivered but that
the Deputy Attorney..General then | had the s matter wi under _considera~

tion.

Counsel for Intelligence Coordination, — department of Justice,
advised that the Deputy AttoxeyGancral had,.that, morning,
‘Instructed that “the Department . DEepar repare a Letter to eenacor Church
etailing the incident as set oa we inthe above memorandum
that had been prepared by. the-Bureau for deTivery to Senator
Church, According to Blackhurst, the Depar there Commimication,
hich has has not as yet, been aj owed concluded by y_asking
Senator © -Church whether or not the SSC was uae Fesponsible | for leak-
ing documents disclosing the “identity “of Dorsett and, if so,
what action ié SSG intends tot take to prevent: t similar ioe
disctostires-inrthe future. Blackhurst added that a copy of
Kis“ communication is being designated for the Bureau but Bue ai 135 70

did not know whether the communicat iREC-5OuLd ie ‘eacl ng Be
prior to the Director's meeting with Senator

i=l
EM
On2/L3426. Steven Black khurst, Assistant Special 8
ae
|

appro: he will telephonically advise Bureau. a 3
Enclosures me Go FEB 24 1976 4
BY) 104,

62-116395 Soe eee

Tims ase CONTINUED - OVER ay ‘S
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED | hh
ee a

NW 55149 DoclId:32989578 Page 24



Nw 55149

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re:

U. S. Senate Select Committee (SSC)
62-116395

ACTION:

None. Above is submitted for information

yo
“AN \ fen

DocId:32989578 Page 25



Intell.
Leborotory —_
Plan. & Eval. —

Spee. Inv.

Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm. —

“Sensrupy 75)

CA meMROEBEEQNNSED= oa

~ Me, B. Adems "
- lie. A. Mintz %
GQ QD. J. B. otic) at

1
2
1- ir. 1. BR, Vannell I
l-ilm®, UV. u. Cregar ‘

r , \

CODE TELETYPE NITEL
TO SACs BUTTE
MINNEAPOLIS TEBRUARY 19, 1976

SEATELE 1 - Mr. J, G. Deegan
1l- Mr, T. J. McNiff

FROM DIRECTOR FBI (62-116395) 1 - Mr. J. b. Graham

BY LETTER DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1976, THE SENATS SELECT
COMMITTEE (SSC) REQUESTED THAT ARRANGEMENTS BE MADE FOR SSG
STAEF MEMBERS TO INTERVIEW FBI PERSGNNeL WHO AUTHORED CERTAIN
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PRUGRAM (COINTELPRO) DOCUMENTS RELATING To
ALLEGED FBI INVOLVEMENT IN “GANG WAR" BETWEEN THE BLACK PATS
PARTY (BPP) AND THE US ORGANIZATION. \
THESE PERSONS ARE: “
BUTTE DIVISION - SPECIAL AGENT (SA) ROY L. BURNS, ASSIGNED TO
BILLINGS, MONTANA, RESIVENT AGENCY, (DOCUMENTS AUTHORED WHILE
ASSIGNED SAN DIEGD);
MINNMAPOLIS DIVISION - ASSISTANT SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE (ASAC)
WILLLAM D. NEUMANN, (DOCUMENTS AUTHORED WHILE ASSIGNED FBL- |b pee DS]
HEADQUARTERS (¥BIHQ); Riis a

za FEB 28 1976
JPG: eks oy?

(10)

MoR Me

Spied aes
ALLINFORMATIONCONTAINED = # ELEY

HERE] LASSIF! rh My bi i) alt
Dale pbs DB 7

w ne wa

Sv _— —t

‘SEE NOTE PAGE 3

Ve A,
Director Secty MAIL ROOMC__] =‘ TELETYPE UNIT (™] GPO ; 1974 of 569-920

1 FSB ReGwgTPSSI57S Page 26



PACE 2

SEATTLE DIVISION ~ SA LEROY W. SHEETS (RETIRED), LAST

ADDRESS BELIEVED TO BE 5825 ~- 72D STREET, N. E.,

MARYSVILLE, WASHINGTON, (DOCUMENTS AUTRORED WHILE ASSIGNED

LOS ANGELES) .

BUTTE AND MINNBAYOLIS SHOULD ADVISE INCUMBENT EMPLOYEES
THAT IF CONTACTED BY SSC STAFF FOR INTERVIE, LEGAL COUNSEL
DIVISION IS {0 BE IMMEDIATELY NOTIFIED THROUGH SAC SO THAT
RELEAS" FROM CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT AND ARRANGEMENTS TOR
INTERVILY CAN BE EYFECTED.

SEATTLE SHOULD CONTACT FORMER SA SHEETS, ALERT HIM TO
ANTICIPATED SSC STAFF INTERVIUY AND ADVISE HIM TO CONTACT
LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION SO THAT Hi CAN BE RELEASED FROM
CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT AMD PARAMETERS OF INTERVIEY OUTLINED
TO HIM. CONTACT WITH SHEETS TO BE HANDLED BY SAC OR AS/C,
IN EVENT THIS NOY FEASIBLE Fok JUST CAUSE, TO BE HANDLED BY
4. SENIOR SUPERVISOR. IF SHEETS NO LONGER IN YOUR TERRITORY

OR TEMPORARILY AWAY, SET CUT LEAD YO OTHER UFYICE IMMEDIATELY

ITH COPY fu FBIHQ.

NW 55149 DoclId:32989578 Page 27


NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 28

NOTE:

Referenced SSC letter indicated that certain
portions of Bureau memoranda and airtelc my be quoted in
the SSC's final report on FBI intelligence operations and that
the SSC was seeking to take the testimony of persons vhose
memoranda and statements might be quoted in that report. The
memoranda referred to in referenced SSC letter pertain to
the FBI's role in the "gang war'' between the BYP and the US
Organization. By telephone call 2/18/76, the SSC also requested
the author of SAC, Los Angeles, airtel to Director, FBI,
5/26/70, under the same caption as above memoranda, The
author of this communicetion was determined to be Supervisor
Richard W, Held, currently assigned to FBIHQ. Mr. Held,
who is in an officiel travel status until the first veek of
March, has been advised of the SSC's desire to interview hin,
By airtel, Minneapolis and Butte will be furnished copics of
documents written by Mr. Weumenn and Mr. Burns, respectively.



‘OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 s010-108
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN, REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES Gi NMENT

* Memorandum

Compl Syst. —
Ext. Affairs ——

; Mr. Jd. B. Adams DATE: 2/2/76
") NOR I
, Legal AULINFORMATION CONTAINED
Frow Bes 7 puns HERE ISUNGLASSIFER 91 LL
DATE
sugect SENSREDY 75
ee Telophono Rm. —

Director Sec'y —
At 2:45 p.m. on 1/27/76, Michael Epstein, Staff Member

of captioned Committee, requested that Harold N. Bassett, Assistant
Director of the Inspection Division, or some other Bureau official
familiar with inspection procedures be made available for a briefing
with that Committee on 1/28/76 and to appear in executive session at
10 a.m. on 1/29/76. The topic of the briefing and testimony will be
the Bureau's inspection procedures.

Epstein contacted SA Paul V. Daly of this Division on
1/28/76 and indicated he would desire that the briefing take place
in the Committee's space at 1:30 p.m. on this date. He stated it
would not be necessary for Assistant Director Bassett to be familiar
with any particular matters reviewed by the Inspection Division but
rather address, in general, the inspection policies and procedures.
Epstein stated the executive session which was to begin at 10 a.m.
on 1/29/76 would consist of Assistant Director Bassett and former
Acting Associate Director W. Mark Felt appearing in a panel ar-
rangement. Assistant Director Bassett would be asked questions’
at the executive session concerning inspection procedures.

I cu Scheduled to follow Assistant Director Bassett as
Witnesses before the Committee in that same executive session at
‘Al ‘a.m. are Michael E. Shaheen, Jr., in his role as Counsel on
‘Professional Responsibility and Glen E. Pommerening, Assistant

i Attorney General for Administration. 4

| On 1/28/76, Epstein advised SA Daly that Assistant

Director Bassett's appearance in executive session before that

Committee was being rescheduled for 2 p.m. on 1/29/76 because of

a schedule conflict. He subsequently advised that the Staff

briefing had to be postponed because Epstein determined he had a

prior commitment. Epstein, in the late afternoon of 1/28/76, “a

FRIG REND [9 -// 39 ak

1 - Mr. Mintz. a nena,
ties Adams— 1 - Mr. Cregar
on —Mr-Catlahan~ 1 - Mr. Hotis 6 FES 1978
i? 1 = "Mr. Bassett 1 - Mr. Daly
CONTINUED = ae a

PVD: lad ay
a uM Sat

wns 4 BEB 2.841976 39578 Page 29



Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams
RE: SENSTUDY 75

ave

advised that he had to again postpone the executive session
testimony of Assistant Director Bassett because of scheduling
conflicts and that the testimony would be sometime during the
week of 2/2/76. He could not give a definite time nor assure
that the testimony would take place during that week.

On the morning of 1/29/76, Epstein requested that
Assistant Director Bassett appear in executive session at 2 p.m.
on 2/3/76 to give his requested testimony. After consultation
with Assistant Director Bassett, Epstein was advised that As-
sistant Director Bassett had delayed his departure from Washington,
D. C., to conduct Bureau business in order to be available for
testimony and that on two separate occasions the Committee had
found it necessary to reschedule his testimony. He was advised
that Assistant Director Bassett would be available during the
week of 2/9/76 and that we requested he be given the opportunity
to. testify during that week or some other mutually agreeable time.
Epstein stated that it was the intention of the Committee to go
forward on 2/3/76 without Assistant Director Bassett and mentioned
that former Acting Associate Director W. Mark Felt who had been
head of the Bureau's Inspection Division would be available to
testify concerning this matter. It was pointed out to Epstein
that Mr. Felt is no longer with the FBI and is not in a position
to act as spokesman for Bureau inspection policies and procedures
which are currently in existence under Director Kelley. Epstein
again indicated that the Committee would go on without a Bureau
representative.

John T. Elliff, Director of the Domestic Task Force of
the Senate Select Committee, was immediately contacted and advised
of Epstein's decision and the background concerning this matter.
E1liff was advised that the Committee certainly would want all the
information available concerning inspection procedures in the
Bureau to get a fair picture of this area of Bureau operations.
ELLif£ agreed and stated he would insure Assistant Director Bassett
would be given the opportunity to testify as to the Bureau's current
inspection ‘procedures and policies. This testimony, however, may
not be at the same time as the appearance of W. Mark Felt, et al.

| y? pai aan 7 i (a

NW_55149 DocId:32989578 Page 30



. FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIUATION

Poa CoS ge otuerrons e
JAN 2 8197 ,

R12 SD PLaliv
5354Pil JANUAR

HE Sai) DIEGU TELETYPE fu THe BUREAU JANUARY 27, 1976.
THE Sav DIEGU UNION N2WSPAPER UF JANUARY 28, 1976,

GUNTAINS AN ARTICLE STATING CITY CUUNCILMAN FLOYD MogR OV WILL

Ui JAKUARY 29, 1976, PROPOSE A CUUNCIL RESOLUTION REQUESTIuUG

THE SEWATE INTZLLIGZSCE CUMMITTEZ CONDUCT HEARINGS IN SAN DIEGO

TO FEAR LOCAL WITWESSES IN CONNECT 1UN WITH RECENT DISCLOSURES

THAT THE FBI “PROMOTED VIULEWT DISRUPTION OF Bick Ga OUPS

AW POLITICAL DISSIDENTS" IN SAW DIEGO DURING THE LaTe 196uS

AW EARLY 1979S. THE RESOLUTION WILL REQUEST THAT THE CITY U

SAN DIEGO HAVE A KEPRESENTATIVE UN THE SENATE COMMITTEE Tu

OBTAIN IMFORMATION GAINED BY TH PANEL IN ITS HEARINGS. 4
THE ARTICLE FURTHER STaTES THAT SAW DIEGO CITY BY

COUNCILHAN LEON WILLIAMS MET FOR MURE THAN AN HOUR IN SAN DIEGO

ON JANUARY 27, 1976, WITH SENATZ INVESTIGATOR ARTHUR JEFFERSON

R le Reesy (god -//E Rie) .
ee us! Bs Se —_
non @ FEB 6

A FEB 25 1976 ae
ak DocId:32989578 Page 31 . Il- to gona —


moe, e me )

PAGE TwO
@D 66-1714 _
REVIEWIs@ FBI ATTEMPTS TO DISRUPT BLACK KATIUNALIST GROUPS.
WILLIAMS ALLEGEDLY TOLD JEFFERSON UF HIS ATTEMPTS TO
MEDIATE a FEUD BETWEEW THE BLACK PANTHERS aD US IN Sad DIEGU
In 1969, WILLIadS STATES HE waS INFORMED BY TWO CITY
OFFICIALS, FORMER PULICE CHIEF O.J. RUED Ai FORMER CITY
iiawaGéR WALTEA HAHN, THAT THE BLACK PANTHERS PLANNED TO
ASSASSIWATE HIM aiD INFORMATION ABOUT THE PLOT Had BEEW FURNISHED
BY THE FBI. OED it) HAHN ARE REPORTED IN THE aRTIG@LE AS
NOT RECALLING THE MEETING OR TELLING WILLIAS UF a DEATH PLOT
AGAINST HIM.

WILLIA4S INDICATES THAT UPON BEING SU ADVISED BY
RUE) AND HAHN, HE NOTIFIED COUNCILMAN FLOYD MORROW AND MORROW
HAS STATED HE RECALLS BEING SO ADVISED.

THE ARTICLE STATES JEFFERSON DEPARTED SAN DIZGU
FOR LOS ANGELES OW JANUARY 27, 1976, AND EXPECTS TO PROGE FoI

NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 32


wae

+ moe
- my

PAGE THREE

D 66-1714

ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES WHERE "TWO MEMBERS OF THE BLACK
PANTHER PAKTY WERE KILLED DURING A SHOUT OUT WITH US MEMBERS
Ow THE UCLA CAMPUS IN JANUARY, 1969."

EW.

VLN FBIHQ@ ACK FOR OWE TEL

NRB12. CLR

CrLB4 Cassat base 33


Qi

x
Re
at

‘ : >

Mr. . Callahan us
Mr. . Adams a.
Mr. D.¥W. Moore, Jr.

ae The Attorney General February 18, 1976

OR?
ru ke F san encostsn DUp, LICA

C1» 62-11639

ae FBI Mr. J. A. Mintz moet
j Mr. W. R. Wannall :
Mr. W. 0. Cregar
Mr. J. G. Deegan

SAN DIEGO OPERATIONS
: Mr. E. F. Glenn

: You were previously advised by my letter dated
January 23, 1976, of recent allegations against the FBI :
relating to the Secret Army Organization (SAO) that ,
appeared in a series of articles beginning January 11, ‘
1976, in the "San Diego Union" Newspaper. These articles
alleged the FBI created and financed the SAO and controlled s]
the activities of this group through an informant, Howard Barry ,\*
Godfrey, who was a leader of this organization. You were 7
also advised the inquiry being conducted concerning these allega
tions had thus far indicated they were unfounded.

Pee
tenea
VA mf

ome

this matter has been completed. This inquiry which
included a review of all pertinent court records and

FBI Headquarters and San Diego Field Office files reveals
allegations against the FBI, concerning our investigation
of the SAO, are without merit and clearly shows the FBI

did not organize, control, or finance the SAO. Infermation
we received concerning illegal activities conducted or
planned by the SAO was immediately disseminated to
appropriate law enforcement agencies.

J
: a

This is to advise you that our inquiry into a
|

In the above-mentioned series of articles
there were certain allegations made by former SAO members
and associates when interviewed by newspaper reporter Patrick
Dillon. These individuals previously expressed a desire
to the news media to discredit Godfrey, or had been found
guilty following legal proceedings in which Godfrey was
a important witness. Allegations made by them to Mr. Dillon
neluded: a

ae ett]
rae .

5 a
SENSTUDY 75 Project) bak

{

EFG:lek ad Sari estat

HERE IS USOT A

Dae URS en be TE VEL ow

ssPil FEBQDIOZB, sage 20



The Attorney General

: (1) Godfrey assigned SAO members to kidnap antiwar
demonstrators during the 1972 Republican National Convention
planned for San Diego, (2) Godfrey threatened and pressured

i SAO members into committing acts of violence, (3) Godfrey
was involved in criminal acts which included breaking into
school offices, firebombing vehicles, and making threatening
calls.

One individual who made allegations against Godfrey,
when interviewed by Mr. Dillon, also testified during the trial
of an SAO member that he was responsible for the sale of between
$10,000 and $20,000 worth of weapons and explosives to Godfrey.
This person later entered a guilty plea in court, State of
California, for the charge of perjury in connection with this
testimony.

The extensive review of pertinent FBI and court
documents, mentioned above, produced no information to
substantiate or refute these allegations. However, it
should be noted no information to document or substantiate
these allegations has been produced.

In view of the above we contemplate no further inquiry
in this matter.

NOTE:

By letter dated 1/23/76, the Attorney General was
advised of articles appearing in "San Diego Union" Newspaper
alleging Bureau organized, financed and controlled the SAO.
The Attorney General was advised preliminary inquiries
determined there was no basis for allegations, however,
additional inguiries were being conducted. Instant letter
is follow-up letter to advise Attorney General of results
of additional inquiries.

NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 35


OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10 cal a 7 “
Say 1963 eomton 5,
{OSA ro Cat crn 101=11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Ext. Affairs

TO : Mr Jenkins DATE; 2-6-76 Fils & Came —
iden

Leone Jfs. MeDermot SYYY | tte

ROM : . MeDermo ra y q Ww ara

Legal Coun. —_

supject: £COST DATA - JANUARY 1976 alle Secor Sn to

SENSTUDY AND HOUSTUDY = ane Meta im

Director Sec'y —

Due to the fact that this matter is being handled in Records Section

through normal mail processing procedures, it is most difficult to determine

. which specific individual(s) may have typed a certain card or abstract, searched
a particular name, reviewed a particular file, etc. Therefore, names of
individuals have not been given. In some instances, a specific number of

& individuals involved may be known and, where applicable, this has been shown,
But in some units it is impossible to know even how many persons performed
the work relative to a specific subject. All that can be given in some cases is
the estimated number of hours in a particular grade or level based on production
figures relating to this matter.

| SENSTUDY
No, Personnel Grade Salary Man-Hours

Gs-3 $ 7,102 5 1/4
Gs-4 8, 508 1/2
GS-6 9,946 133 1/4
GS-6 10, 610 1/2
GS-6 11, 606 2

Re DE XB OO

Cc
Cc
Cc
Cc
A
1 am ft.
*Cannot be accurately determined GA-HMLE 76-,POO

GS-8 15, 071 8 ~
GS-15 37,5738 BERS
6 a
HOUSTUDY gt a :
cep 10 8
2 GS-3 7, 102 =
1 GS-6 10, 610

Costs incurred in the Communications Section are negligible.

' ee oe to the, Adminis yo NV

4 WLB:bprz
5, ag Ae LS. 1978 JS
aapnneaaereaat 6, §,Sayings Bonds coe on the Payroll Savings Plan

YHAROONDD COPY FILE

\
ne



1 - Mr. Gallahan .

5-113a (Rev, 3-21-73) i * wDicce:
1 - Mr. Mintz
1 - Mr. Moore
1 - Mr. Wannall
1 - Mr. Leavitt 1-Mr. Deegan
Intelligence Division Jovy, Cregar
INFORMATIVE NOTE ~ I-Mr. Tans y

pate 1/28/76

Attached from San Diego pertains to
Senstudy '75 and current activity of Senate
Select Committee (SSC) investigators probing
charges the FBI promoted guerrilla-type war-
fare against blacks and political dissidents
in the San Diego and Los Angeles areas duying
the late 1960's and early 1970's. r

San Diego "Union" newspaper 1/28/76
indicates City Councilman Floyd Morrow will
propose council resolution on 1/29/76 }
requesting SSC conduct hearings and have
representative from city of San Diego on |.
the "Senate Committee” to obtain data gained
by the panel in its hearings. It is also
reported SSC investigator Arthur Jefferson
| departed San Diego for Los Angeles on
1/27/76. He is going to probe FBI activities
pertaining to two rival black extremist
groups. This involved killing of two Black
Panther Party (BPP) members during eal

ewe ot

with US members on UCLA campus in 1/69.
The "Union" article also states City
Councilman Leon Williams met for more tha
an hour 1/27/76 with Jefferson and told
Jefferson he attempted to mediate a feud
between BPP and US in San Diego in 1969,
Williams claimed he was infotmed by two
city officials, the former police Chief arid
the- former city manager, that FBI told them
BPP planned to assassinate Williams. The
article indicates the former police chief

INFORMATION CONTAINED
AU REIN IS UN LASSIFIEM “ign Ie

NW 55149 DociId:32989578 Page 37


; and the former city manager both deny
making such statement to Williams.
Williams claims he told Councilman Morrow
at the time and Morrow claims he recalls
being so advised.

SAC Ronald L. Maley, San Diego,
telephonically contacted by Intelligence
Division Night Supervisor F. Anthony
Tansey, stated San Diego FBI personnel
knowledgeable of facts do not recall any
such incident or notice to former offi-
cials or Williams; and, if FBI had know-

|| ledge of such a plot, all knowledgeable
employees believe Williams, himself, would
have been notified directly.

San Diego is currently reviewing perti-
nent files for any information to prove or
disprove Williams’ statement and a teletype
will be submitted with pertinent facts on
1/29/76.

Upon receipt of the teletype from
San Diego, you will be advised whether or
not San Diego did have knowledge of any
plot against Williams and whether anyone,
including Williams, was alerted to such

information.
(ae Vey
x

ofr AY
He

HW 55149 Boold:32989578 Page 36



®

1 - Mr. Mintz
1 - Mr. Wannall
PLAINTEXT 5 TELETYPE 1 - Mr. CregarNITEL
1 - Mr. Daly
1 - Mr. Miller
TO: ADC, NEW YORK 2/12/76
MDR |b
FROM: IRECTOR, FBI ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
lan ome SPE M Me Dy hf
senstyby 75 EML
| ey

SA DANIEL A. FLYNN GAVE DEPOSITION ON SEPTEMBER 10,
1975, TO THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE. JAMES DICK, COMMITTEE
STAFF MEMBER, DESIRES TO HAVE SA FLYNN ATTEST TO THE ACCURACY

OF DEPOSITION BEFORE NOTARY PUBLIC. MR. DICK WILL CONTACT

SA FLYNN IN THE NEW YORK OFFICE AND MAKE ARRANGEMENTS I A

THIS REGARD. BUREAU APPROVAL IS GRANTED FOR SA FLYNN ~ O°

ATTEST TO THE ACCURACY OF THE DEPOSITION.

- FEDERAL GURCAY OF invEsTIGATICN
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Eee ee
oan ee ; Personnel File - SA Daniel A. Flynn
— i ee — THERE
° ST 112
ma Feb 1g 1976

NOTE: On 2/11/76, James Dick, Staff-—Member“of*the Senate
Select Committee, advised SA Flynn (NYO) gave deposition on

F

aytPn

= pisth haart 9/10/75 on the subject of mail openings. The deposition was
pore eee not under oath. Dick requested SA Flynn attest to accuracy
set Dis of his deposition before a notary public. SA Flynn furnished
Comp. Syst a summary of his deposition to the Bureau wi f h was furnished
Ext. Affaies to the Department and the White House by m anduni ‘dated

Files & Co .

ae 10/1/75. Nee

ident. SDM/PVD : Lad |p?

Inspection (10) ik

Invell. ms {

aboratory —__ Me

ra evel G

Spoc. lav, —__ t

Training
i Legal Coun.
i Telephone Rm. —
hee ne" MAIL ROOMC_] ‘TELETYPE UNIT P01 1975 0+ ane

q EGS 25 J0762000576 Page 39 : os

SSRRPSReeeeeeeeeeeeee SEER RSS ES eee Se eePee



Nco/Pcket
pedis
R fe hleq |

\vat
11[8] 60

NW 55149 Docld:32989578 Page 40 7



ena a

Nw soul

1 - Mr. N. Ff. Callahan
1+ Mr. J. B. Adams i
: ; _1 = Uy. D. W. Moore, Jr.
Mr. W. RK. Wannall 2/10/76
, : l= Mr. J, A, Mintz
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
Ll -+ Mr. W. 6. Cregar
1- Mr. J. G. Deegen
1 - Mr, E, -F. Glenn

ST MATTER - — ALLINFORMA
z HERE ‘ON CONTAINED

: In previous memorandum J. G. Deegan.to Mr. W. R.
Wannall dated 1/30/76, captioned as above, the allegations -
against the FBI and former informant Howard Barry Godfrey were ry
refuted. -These allegations appeared primarily in the "San :
Diego Union" Newspaper in e series of articles written by
Patrick Dillon, which commenced 1/11/76. Allegations included:
The. SAO was an extension of the Counterintelligence Program
(COINTELPRO), the FBI gave Godfrey between $10,000 and $20,000
worth of explosives and weapons for use by the SAO, Godfrey
paid SAG expenses, the SAQ was used by the FBI to disrupt anti-
war demonstrators and get local activists on the run, the FBI ©
organized, financed and controlled the SAG,end Godfrey conspired
and attempted to commit murder. : :

-
ne,

|

N

i Instant memorandum relates to certain allegations

made by former SAO members and associates when interviewed by
newspaper reporter Dillon in preparation of the above-mentioned
series of articles, Extensive review of all pertinent Bureau
and San Diego Field office files as well as pertinent transcripts
of court and grand jury proceedings: ‘regarding SAU members has
‘produced no information to either substantiate or refute the
allegations, Allezations included: 7
(1) Godfrey assigned SAU members to kidnap antiwar demonstrators
during the.1972 Republican National Convention plenned for :
San Diego, : :

(2) Godfrey threatened and pressured SAO members into committing
acts of violence, :

(3) Godfrey, was involved in criminal acts which included break-
ing into school offices, firebombing vehicles, end making

onanan mM AD 7 - 23,

threetening oakis SV 9A
CT> 62-11639§ (SENSTUDY 75] Project) Jp AMAELG ee
EFG: eks y° : 46 | Renee ce 2
eFeB 208 saabiessteedahng

‘DocId:32989578 Page 41


Nw 55149

Memorandum to Mr. WU. R. Wannall-
“Re: Secret Army urgenizetion (saa)

(4) Godfrey had an obsession with regard to Long haired, .
New Left types. He talked of bombing them with an eirplene,
dropping Mortar rounds on them, end beating them up. °

: These allegations were made by individuals who
had previously expressed a desire to the news medic to
diseredit Godfrey and those who were found guilty following
legal proceedings in which Godfrey was an important witness.
Additional inquiry 1s not warranted since informetion to ~
document or substantiate these allegations has not been
produced and all evailable files and documents have. been
reviewed. : : :

: In « letter. dated.1/21/76, the Attorney General (AG)
yas advised that the FBI was conducting an inquiry into
ellegations thet the Bureau acted improperly while investigeting
the SAG, The AG will be advised of results of the inquiry
into 411 allegation: by seperate communication.

A work peper containing all back-up meteriel
-regarding the allegations made and the results of transcript
reviews and the review of Bureau and Son Diego Field office
' £{les has been prepared and made available to the External
Affairs Division. aH :

ACTION:

None. For information. .

Doold: 32989578 Page 42



1.

1- Mr. J. A, Mintz
1- Mr. D. W. Moore
1+ Mr. W. R. Wannall

ir. W/ R. Wannall 2/10/76
- Mr. W. 0. Cregar

~ Mr. J. G. Deegan
~My RL Shackelford
~ Mr. F. J, Cassidy

~ Mr. D. Ryan

_; Bf Cassidy

ek Pet fet et ft

CO;FNTELPROS
f ae

ee”

This is to advise of our interpretation of analytical infor-
mation relating to our discoptinued Counterintelligence Programs
(Cointelpros) prepared by thé Senate Select Committee (SSC).

rl

On 2/2/76 the Department made available for our review
anumber of FBI decuments the SSC intends to publish in connection
with its forthcoming report, Included with the material were three
SSC prepared charts (copies attached) analyzing the same five basic
domestic Cointelpros which were reviewed in 1974 by the Department
Study Co.a‘nittee on FBI Cointelpros (Petersen Committee), The
statistics utilized by the SSC in compiling the charts differ from
those reported by the Petersen Committee, and the SSC has also
established different categories for characterizing Cointelpro actions
than used in the Petersen report, The following is a description of
the three SSC charts,

| 1, Cointelpro Composite (SSC Exhibit 10), ‘This chart
| lists seyen basie categories for the 2, 679 total Cointelpro actions

| tabulated by the SSC, it being noted this is 310 more actions than
calculated by the Petersen Committee. The first three categories,
(1) Attacks on Speaking, Teaching, Writing, and iMeeting; (2) inter-
ference w/Personal and Economic Rights; and (3) Abuse of Government
Processes, place appreximately 925 of the Cointelpro actions in an
area indicating FBI violation of constitutional rights with possible
erlminal and civil liability. The fourth category, Third Party Hostile,

c

ORIGINAL FLED IN ( oD yy

Enclosures.
_62-116009 ; CONTINUED - OVER
(1) 62-1635 (Senstudy) ete Wb Fh 7

DR/AGP UI F wr \e NOPREGOROED—
(11) s ALLINFORMATION CONTAINED 48 FEB R% i/o

[ft HEREMISHACLACSIVES 1 only
rorddsswe 2 SaenieiD espa AL

NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 43
-_

\



NW 55149

Memorandum to Mr. W. R., Wannall
Re: Cointelpros
62~116009 *

apparently indicates Cointelpro actions Uirected to cause hostile
action to a target, probably by third parties. Categories 5 and 6,
Factionalization and Propaganda, represent approximately 1,550

of the total actions, appear to relate to efforts of the FBI to cause
dissension within organizations or to expose through publicity the
activities of a targeted group or individual. The seventh category,
Cominfil, undoubtedly is a reference to FSI efforts to expose or
disrupt communist efforts to infiltrate a noncommunist organization,
it being noted this category is only tabulated for the Communist Party,
USA, Program.

The SSC categories differ from those of the Petersen
report in that the first three clearly are in terms indicating a viola-
tion of First Amendment rights with possible criminal and/or civil
liability. The four other categories do not necessarily indicate
criminal or civil wrongdoing, but probably indicate actions outside
the charter of the FBI, Regarding the Cominfil category, the SSC
has been critical of our use of "Communist Infiltration” which the
Committee views as a pretext for such investigations as those
involving the Southern Christian Leadership Conference,

Martin Luther King, Poor Peoples March, and Women's Liberation
Movement,

2. Cointelpro Categories by Program (SSC Exhibit 11),
This chart consists of five individual charts representing the basic
domestic Cointelpros and graphically illustrates the characterizations
of actions conducted in each program,

The five charts illustrate the differences in the figures
for Cointelpro actions as tabulated by the Petersen Committee and
the SSC, These are as follows.

CONTINUED ~ OVER

DocId:32989578 Page 44



Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Cointelpros

62-116009
Percent
Program Petersen ssc Difference
CPUSA 1388 1636 17,8
SWP 46 57 23.8
White Hate 255 287 12.5
Black Nationalist 362 379 4.9
New Left 289 291 1,0
Totals 2340 2650 13,24

8. Cointelpro Activity (SSC Exhibit 22). ‘This chart
endeavors to tabulate the number of Cointelpro actions for each pro~
gram on a quarterly basis for each year from 1956 to 1971, The
chart indicates approximately 60 percent of all Cointelpro actions
were conducted inthe Communist Party Program which in two
quarters reached approximately 75 actions and which was most
active during the period 1960 to 196%, The chart also indicates all
the programs except the Black Nationalist commenced to taper
down in terms of actions beginning in or before 1969, The Black
Nationalist Cointelpro was active up until 1971 with some 40 actions
effected in the last quarter af 1970,

OBSERVATIONS:

While the Petersen Committee report attempted to place
Cointelpro activity in 12 descriptive categories, the SSC, according
to the Cointelpro composite chart, obviously is endeavoring to
characterize the actions to highlight alleged abuses and possible
erlminal or civil liability. Categories 1, 2 and 3 place approximately

CONTINUED ~ OVER

| NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 45



NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 46

Memorandum to Mr. W, R. Wannall
Re: Cointelpros
62116009

34 percent of all Cointelpro actions within areas of constitutional or
statutory violation, obviously indicating possible criminal or civil
liability, This indicates the thrust of the forthcoming SSC ) report,
as relates to our discontinued Cointelpros, will either criticize the
Petersen Committee report as an inadequate review or one possibly
based on incomplete information, ‘Fhe SSC very likely intends to
dispute the Petersen Committee report conclusion that the "over-
whelming bulk of these activities were clearly legitimate and proper
undertakings, within the scope of the FBI's ongoing responsibilities, "
and to characterize the activities as criminal or civil violations of
individual rights ox - outside the mandate or charter of the FBL

We may expect the SSC, in its forthcoming report, as
was done in public hearings, to highlight FGI Cointelpro abuses using
selected documentation from FBI files to support its conclusion. It
is likely the SSC will recommend legislation to preclude future
Cointelpro-type activities and it is possible it will recommend
eriminal or civil prosecutions. As was done with the Petersen
Committee report, the subjective characterization of an action as
falling within one of several arbitrarily described categories is not
only a matter of individual interpretation, but raises questions which
cannot be objectively answered. Whether or not these actions are
truly thought to. be prosecutable offenses, the innuendo arising from
their characterization is in itself damaging.

ACTION:

None. For information.



|
a
Pols
. : . 7
teas 1
é . _ a ~e arn cere Bere tite og Be .
. “ 4 ) : i
a
wo - “eo 1, 7)
WN LG
~ a

_) CONTELPRg COMPOSITE ot
| @.
TOTAL 2679 | : F

EX, so
TAR >

Q)

TT ‘ ‘
= . 2
400 a ks
N
Se
200 s@

4) YQ

T. Attacks on 2. Interfor-
, Speaking, ence w/ Govern. Part
Teaching, Personz! ment Hostile

9S. Faction. 6. Propa-
alization ganda

Writing, and Eco- —p
an: Meeting nomic Rights

PAA auva"
GalsISSVIONO SI NIRS

EEINIVLNOS NOLLWWHOSNI THY

.

i Sl Sonne Tee
DBoold:
NW 55149



*

Fe - @ Eeaigit if

- ah a oo MR Ib

NEW LEFT

fal

HITE HATE.”

50
“40
30

W

“FZ gu, ALLINFORMATION CONTAIN
<eqy.e PO HEREINISs NCLASSIF

ry tee yh Hee
The eT ayn ES at



EI
SYSH
NITIY

in
Ez 537
ge Peg
|B 389s
=. ons
\ .

‘

_ GAN.

4 E I/~
ANG

_
—

My :

Cointeloro,.
Activity,

CPUSA mec ges

SWPP a
WhiteHate ,
New Lef+ eupae
Bleck
Nationalists
$0.
ws
7

NW 55149 Doold: 32989576 Page 49

; ; ~ fy
i A i ar aa Ht | a eran a.

Ne aN ff.
‘1989 1976-427}

om

i



= 7 ontionat Form NO. 10 - so10-108
cal MAY 1962 EDITION.
GSA GEN, REG. NO, 27 -Mr. JS Adams

1
. - “UNITED, STATES -RNMENT 2-Mr. J. A. Mintz
(i - Me. J. B. Hotis)
Memorandum Boa au auairaniee|
1 - Mr. R. L. Shackelford beeeoitana
Mr. W. R. Wannall pate: 2/9/76 Files & Com, —
/ ef 1 - Mr, J. G. Deegan SvaUeul ranean
in La : 1 - Mr. S. S. Mignosa Inspoetidi
ffrom + We 0. / regar|)) 1-Mr. F. J. Cassidy i
Cc ay 1 - Mr. W. 0. Cregar Plo Ev —
suyecr:( SENSHUDE 75 1- Mr. T. J. McNiff ai
ae ea

PURPOSE:

To advise that, at Senate Select Committee
(SSC) Executive Séssion concerning "Domestic Intelligence (/
Mnvestigations’ néld-276/76, it was decid
additional Executive Session would bé scheduled for a
future date to more fully discuss the role FET should _.
play i in intelligence: type. investigations. oF “domestic.

organizations and citizens helieved.to_pose long-range ,
threat to internal security of country.
Reisen saerun een vane as-retre-eecnete oe Sean

DETAILS :

Reference is made to my memorandum 2/2/76
advising that Bureau representatives would appear at SSC ©
Executive Session concerning "Domestic Intelligence
Investigations" on 2/6/76,

Above SSC Executive Session was held as scheduled
between the approximate hours 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m,
Representing the SSC were Senators Walter F. Mondale and
Robert Morgan | who were ‘accompanied ‘by 1 numerous SSC Staff _», “1384
‘personnel. Bureau ‘representatives offer} Aye OZ Gs
testimony at this Session were Assist iréctor We-Raymond
Wannall, Inspector-Deputy Ass anh Difector Hunter E, EB 18 976
Helgeson, Section Chiefs Joseph G. Deegan, Sebastiaaast
“Wignosa and Robert L, Shackelford, “ali sire the Intelliggnecesn as
“Division, and Inspector John BTHétis Legal Counse ;

Division,
62+116395 . MDR /b a
TIM: 1hb [hb phe amon CONTAINED

IN IS UN Se FteD, CONTINUED - OVER

is FFB 8S {97850578 Page 50



Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

Senator Mondale, expla: ained at the outset that
the purpose of the Session was “for Bureau pebresentatives

ng. gislation outlining Bureau responsibilities, in

the domestic intelligence area, He requested ‘that Bureau
representatives highlight operations in this field and
support, by specific examples, why the Bureau beli ieves
hi on

there is a continuing nee need f£ for this type _investig

Between the approximate hours 10:00 a.m. to
12:00 noon, Bureau representatives offered statements
land answered questions concerning the following topics:
jsuggested legislation based on both the "Stone" language
nd the proposed Attorney General guidelines; definition
of Governmental interests as basis for "Doriestic
“Intelligence “Investigations;" extent of terrorist activity
(both foreign and domestic orfented) in this country;
value of intelligence:type. investigations in deterring
terrorist activity; and assessment of potential for
terrorist activity during the forthcoming year.
ARuniaRananrenAureehs ry

At approximately 12:00 noon, Senators Mondale
and Morgan departed because of other commitments, Before
departing, Senator_Mondale stated he believed the Session
to be helpful but noted the discussion-had not
intelligence investigations_of sozcalled subver:
domestic organizations and individuals who do not appear
to posé an immediate threat to this country's internal
security, Senator Mondale proposed, and it was agreed,
that discussion in ‘This_area Would Continue + with Staff”
Members dufing the week of 2/9-13/76 and “conclude with
another Exécutive Session at a date yet to be decided

“subsequent to 2/13/76.

CONTINUED - OVER

DocId:32989578 Page 51


NW 55149 DocId:

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

Upon Senator Mondale's departure, SSC Chief
Counsel Frederick A. 0. Schwartz, Jr., acted as chairman.
Mr. Shackelford read into the record a statement concerning
the need for continued Bureau investigations of domestic
organizations and individuals calling for illegal
overthrow of the Government even though the threat is
not imminent, Following numerous questions and answers
in this area, the Session was adjourned at 1:00 p.m.,
with no date set for further discussion,

OBSERVATIONS :

While present, Senator Mondale from his comments
appeared to acknowledge that in any proposed le; islation
some verbiage would ha have to bewine Iudec allo ng_for
“Gnvestigations in the domestic intelligence area. He
seemed most concerted, however, and expressed cognizance,
of the difficulty in drafting legislation permitting such
investigations y yet t prevent ing tigations based upon
political -betiefs "and also preventing t ‘the FBI from being _
misused by Government “OF FT future date_is in
“this sénsitive area. Senator Morgai verbally ‘Claimed he
recognized the need for intelligence-type investigations
but only when violence was present, He further declared
that, in investigations of organizations calling for
violence, such investigations should be limited only to
that segment of the organization which actually participated
in or advocated violence. Senator Morgan was critical of
Bureau investigations of of the Kian and_¢ in C COINTELPRO,

n iu nd other segm Segments
of the black nationalist movement. He was also critical
ef current Bureau leadership and expressed the belief this

CONTINUED - OVER

989578 Page 52



Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

leadership should be replaced as it follows the traditions
established by Mr. Hoover. From statements made by
Mev Schwartz, supra, and other SSC Staff Members present,

with the possible exception of Wes Mark Citenstein, it

would appear these individuals are unalterably opposed.
to legislation authorizing Bureau investigations_in_the
domestic intelligence area unless the threat of violence
is imminent,

RECOMMENDATION:

That Legal Counsel Division, upon approach by
-g, SSC Staff Members, arrange for proposed informal discussion
be during week of 2/9-13/76, and determine the date of
id proposed second session of SSC Executive Hearing concerning
? "Domestic Intelligence Investigations."

Mo wer

ass

gus

e

NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 53



‘ OPTIONAL FORA NO. 10 5010-108 ; . r
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT Aeros Bits

eg A
Memorandum 1 - Mr. J. By Adams ro a

1-- Mr. T. J. Jenkins ee

: Pau yay
ug ) : . Wannal iW’ fit. » DME 26/96 Foe com
. 1 - Mr. D. W. Moore pee

Ident.

' 1 +- Mr. W. R. Wannall Inapoction —
FROM iW, 0. egar |

1- Mr. W. 0. Cregar Intell

Loboratory

Plon. & Eval. —

Y ange

Telephones
Director Seety

This memorandum briefly reviews the speech made
floor of the Senate by..Senator Frank Church entitled
negvernment Adherence to the Law: A Call for_a Téiiporary
Spécial Prosecutor _omtimtelligenceAbuses." The speech, (attached)
Joverage, most of which dealt witl
alt. a special prosecutor be designated
called intelligence abuses.

In brief, the statement by Senator Church reviews
that information which was the subject of testimony by the
majority and minority counséls of the Senate Select Committee
(SSC) before the full Committee on 11/18/75. No new so-called
abuses were identified by Senator Church..and_the speech was
merely a rehash of those activities conducted by, the intel-
igencé community over. the years which the SSC now describes
as abuses. Specifically, the Church statement makes reference
“eo"the following:

COINTELPRO: Own

| Sere ba W639 A138)
: The COINTEL Program tRf€-BAdh the subject of extensive

press inquiries and many documents have been made public under

the Freedom of Information Act. It was the subject of an

extensive investigation by the Department of Justice. The

Bureau made all COINTEL files avilable for the Department's

review. Its investigation culminated in a report by former

Assistant Attorney General Petersen which concluded that {the

| overwhelming bulk of the activities carried oy nde the -

| Program (COENTEL) were legitimate and proper

investigative practices and techniques."

62-116395

‘ he “Fy
[-ENCLOSE"E MDR le

ALLINFORMATION esa
HEREIN i 7
Bare By Sea dam lene

8 4 FEB25 1976

NW 55149 DécId:32989578 Page 54



Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR:

Senator Church's allegations concerning the FBI's
investigation of Martin Luther King, Jr., are replete with
inaccuracies, untruths, half-truths, exaggerations, distortions
and opinions masquerading .as facts, The Senator's allegations
illustrate his disregard for facts as duly sworn_to and .
documented (the testimony of Mr, Adams on 11/19/75) preferring
instead to persist in certain fixations and preconceptions of
the SSG Staff. The entire King matter is currently under
intensive Departmental review which includes Departmental
access to all FBI files.

INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE:

This refers to the fact that in 1969, the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) established a special staff used to gather
intelligence on dissident groups. The legitimacy of this
Procedure is something for the IRS to answer.

OPERATION CHAOS:

Senator Church criticizes the special operation group
formed in CIA to explore possible ties between hostile foreign
nations and domestic dissent within the U. S. CIA's defense
to this operation has been the fact that they were doing this in
response to direct instructions from the President.

ILLEGAL MAIL OPENING PROGRAMS:

Much has appeared in the press regarding the so-called
illegal mail opening programs conducted by both CIA and FBI.
This is currently the subject of a very intensive investigation
by the Department of Justice and both the FBI and CIA are
cooperating with Departmental attorneys in an effort to determine
whether there is any criminal culpability on the part of FBI
and CIA employees.

CONTINUED - OVER

NWo55149 DoclId:32989578 Page 55



ye @ td

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

THE HUSTON PLAN:

Here again, considerable information has appeared
in the press regarding the Huston Plan, This Plan originated
in the White House during former President Nixon's administration.
After a series of meetings which culminated in an implementing
order from the White House, Mr. Hooer objected to the Attorney
General which resulted in the White House recalling the
implementing letter,

NSA WATCH LIST:

The NSA Watch List also has been the subject of some
press coverage. It involves a list of American citizens
maintained by the National Security Agency for the purpose of
monitoring messages carried over international communications.
This procedure is also the subject of a current investigation
by the Department.

is not being addressed in this memorandum but will be the
subject of a separate memorandum prepared by the Office of

| The call for a temporary prosecutor by Senator Church
Legal Counsel,

ACTION:

For information.

ra)

4X

\\

3-

NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 56



GOVERNMENT ADHERENCE TO THE LAW:
A.CALL FOR A TEMPORARY SPECIAL PROSECUTOR ON INTELLIGENCE ABUSES

~ MDR Ib.
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Bare yoo ov Sha ALM ep

A year ago the Select Committee on Intelligence began its

By

"Senator Frank Church

investigation of the American intelligence service. Since then,
the road we have traveled has been long and hard. But now the

end of the journey is near. Soon the Committee will present. its

final recommendations. ~
We have sat neither as judges nor jurors in this inquiry.

It has not been our function to act as a Grand Jury. Our purpose,
rather, has been to obtain information to aid the legislative
process. In particular, we have sought the knowledge and under-
standing , based on a close review of intelligence activities over
the past three decades, which could help us develop sound legis-
lative remedies to reform the intelligence agencies and prevent

abuses of power in the future.

| The criminal investigation and prosecution of officials
within the intelligence service who may have violated the law
is not the task of this, or any other, Congressional committee.
Yet all Members of Congress, and the citizens they represent ,
‘Should be concerned that justice takes its proper and impartial
- course in this matter. f :
The Senate Select Committee has spent the'better part of a
. yéar ferreting out the facts and has established that many laws
; have indeed been violated. The list is extensive:
From 1956 to 1971, the Federal Bureau of Investigation
carried out five counterintelligence: programs, or "COINTELPROs ,""

7 2
against a variety of organizati involved in peaceful protest.

Among these organizations were the Southern Christian Leadership
Conference, most black stujent groups, and various antiwar greups.

i 2-1/6 Bee 1301

NW 55249 Docld:32989578 Page
eee eee



The FBI program against the.New Left was the most wide- ent!
sweeping of all. Its targets included underground newspapers,
students protesting various university policies, the antiwar
Inter-University Committee for Rebate on Foreign Policy, and
several colleges and universities.

. | . The FBI tactics included the use of anonymous letters and
telephone calls designed to disrupt families, friendships.
careers, and organizations; the use of agents Provocateurs to
sow dissension and fragment groups; the dissemination of fake
information about individuals to employers, credit bureaus, and
ereditors; the instigation of tax investigations against certain
citizens for harassment purposes, alone; the investigation of the
private life of group leaders for whispering to the press; and an
almost endless list of equally deplorable assaults on First
Amendment rights.

From 1962 until his death, Dr. Martin lather King was the
tebget of a vicious campaign by the PBI to discredit him as the
most prominent black activist in America. The full array of the :
Bureau's sophisticated devices of technical surveillance was
turned against Dr. King. He was illegally bugged, tapped, and
followed. Information on his private life was-then delivered by

agents of the FBI to clergymen, Members of Congress, the White

House, United States Ambassadors, ‘newsmen, the National Science
Foundation, and the British Government, among others. Agents
were sent to colleges to persuade them not to grant Dr. King’
honorary degrees. aad igi

Information obtained from microphone coverage “of Dr. King
was hand-carried to prominent clergymen throughout the country.
As one’ agent recalls:

{Hoover} sent me...co talk to an Episcopalian °
Bishop. He instructed me to tell this Episco-
palian Bishop, who had been speaking for King
++-all sorts of details. It was not a pleasant
assignmént. But it was an order, an instruction,
and I did go.....(The Bishop] led me to believe
that we could have done a much more honorable

: thing if we had stayed in Washington and not

zl carried that tale out there, and I'm inclined

7 . to think that he was right.

NW_59149 | DocTd:32989578 Page 58



Thirty-four days before Dr. King was to fly to Norway to

.  veceive the highest honor an American can earn, the Nobel Prize

for Peace, the Federal Bureau of Investigation even sent him#
message urging him to take his own life. The unsigned note tread:

King, there is only one thing left for you

to do. You know what it is. You have just

34 days in which to do it. (This exact number
has been selected for a specific reason.) It
has definite practical significance. You are
done. There is but one way out for you.

The FBI has engaged in a host of other questionable activ-
ities, including the collection of irtelligence on critics eid
political opponents of incumbent Presidents.

In 1969,.the Internal Revenue Service established 2 Special
Service Staff (SSS). For the next five years the S$ Staff was
used by the IRS and, indireetly, the FEI to gather intelligence
on dissident groups. Its 11,458 files included dossiers on anti-
war leaders, black political leaders, writers, labor organizers,

tax reform groups, ci’ rights groups, women's liberation groups,,

clergymen, and many more.
In 1967, a Special Operations Group was formed in the Central
Intelligence Agency. Its purpose was to explore possible ties
between hostile foreign nations and domestic dissent within the
United States. The project received the codéname "Operation CHAOS."
over a six-year period, CHAOS accumulated more than 13,000 files,
including 7,200 on American citizens. Through this program the
CIA became a storehouse for the stockpiling of large quantities
of data on citizens of this country. i
From 1940 to 1973, various illegal mail-opening programs

were conducted intermittently by the CIA and the FBI. The CIA

program ran -- off and on -- from 1952 to 1973, and involved the
opening of mail to and from American citizens.? This mail was
intercepted in five major cities within the United States, with
the lerges operation taking place jn’New York City. In that

metropolis alone, 9,000 letters were opened’ and read by CIA agents

NW 55149 Docld:32989578 Page 59


oo eter 7 in the @ year of ‘the program. Among cneeiviaars and

: - organizations whose maii was examined were’ Arthur Burns, Mrs.

Martin Luther King, dr., ichard Nixon,. Senators Humphrey and
Kennedy, the Ford Foundation, Harvard University, and the
Rockefeller Foundation.

The FBI mail-opening program ran from 1940 to 1966, with :
Federal agents in seven American cities reading and photograph-
ing letters written by citizens of the United States. The FBI
also cooperated with the CIA mail program in New York City, re~
ceiving copies of more than $0,000 intercepted letters from the
Agency between 1958 and 1973. Military intelligence units
shared the CIA take, too.

In the Summer of 1970, the so-Galled Huston Plan was drafted
for and approved by the President. Based on a sweeping review of

intelligence collection methods prepared by officials of the CIA,

Wational {ccurity Agency (NSA), the Defense Intelli-

arate military service units, the

ics cf illegal proposals. The Plan,

approved by

xii, invested the intelligence agencies
with Presidenti.) withowity to monitor the international comauni-

' cations of U.3. ci

y the electronic surveiliance

of domestic dissider } the mail of: American citizens; break

into the homes of comestic dissenters; and increase the coverage
of college students.

Althougi the Plan

cinded five days after its initial

approval, several of the programs continued -- just as ‘they had
gone on before the Presidential annointment. They had a life of
their own, apart fron higher authority.’ The CIA mail progran
is but one example. :

Anong the vrogrdms appreved by the President in the Huston

Plen was a " maintainet on American citizens by the

ational Smack sages carried over international

which were to, from, or about individuals

32989578 Page 60

—NW_55149_ DooTd:



whose names appeared on the wateh list were automatically sorted

out and monitored by NSA computers. The messages were Also dis-

“seminated to the CIA, the FBI, and the Secret Service.

the 1980's and early 1970's, over 16,000 American names!were

- \ placed on the NSA watch list. au

Moreover, since 1945, three international telegraph comp-
anies provided the United States Government with copies of
telegrams sent abroad by American citizens. This program was

turned over to the National Security Agency, when that.agency

was established in 1952 and it became known as "Operatio.

ieinane American names on the NSA watch list served as

computer “indexes or signals for the private companies to sort .

fron their large volume of messages those which were of interest

to the government. These messages were then circulated to the

Bureau and the CIA.

This is, by no means, a comprehensive list of unlawful

conduct by the intelligence agencies. The possibility of perjury

by intelligence of

ers before the Congress is not the least of H

several questions which have yet to be resolved by a thorough

investigation of the evidence. This is'an issue of utmost im-

portance, since the Congress cannot hope to arrive at useful : i
remedial legislation on the intelligence service -- or any other

public policy concern -- if it is not told the truth.
* The issue, then, is not whether laws have been violated,
but rather when and how justice will be served. The "when" ought
to be as soon as possible; the "how" is a more tangled problem,
An argument can be made in favor of allowing the usual
processes and institutions to take their course. The Justice

Department has begun to conduct criminal investigations of several

cases uncovered-by the Rockefeller Commissio.! and the committees
of Congress. t can be argued that these investigations should

not be interrupted since they have already begun.

NW 55149 Docld:32989578 Page 61 7



7) —

Certainly, the present Attorney General is a man of

integrity. He has voiced his concern several times over re-

garding the abuses which have come to light through the inves;
tigations of the past year. He has been helpful to the Selec:
Comittee by providing documents and other information. Ithave
full confidence in his good intentions and his respect for the
law. 7 :

Nonetheless, the Attorney General faces an unfortunate

dilemma, Since the Federal Bureau of Investigation is a sub- .

division of the Justice Department, it lies within the adminis-
trative responsibility of the Attorney General. He is thus
placed in a position of investigating the very house over which °
he must peesidet

It is not only the actuality of impartiality which is. at

‘stake. The appearance of impartiality is just as important.

The American Bar Association Standards for Criminal Justice provide
that a prosecuting officer should have no conflict of interest
or the appearance of a conflict of interest. As Chesterfield
Smith, past president of the ABA, has noted, “Under the Standards,
it would be improper for an investigation...of the Executive
Branch of the Federal Government to be conducted by a prosecutor
subject to the direction and control of the President."

The fact that the FBI is a part of the Justice Department

is not the only troubling aspect of this situation -- though it

is serious enough since, over the years, senior-FBI officials

and Justice personnel have had close contact .in their daily work
and have shared knowledge of the dubious activities brought to
light by the Select Committee inquiry. The Justice Department
and the CIA have also had a unique relationship.’ A secret agree-
ment between the two was in effect for twenty years which exempted
the Agency from the usual requirements of reporting to dustice

any violations of the law among CIA personnel.

“66

NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 62


Moreover, it is the Justice Department which is supposed
to represent intelligence officials who may be sued for civil

damages as a consequence of the dis¢losures brought about by =

Congressional investigations. How can the Justice Department”

investigate and prosecute these officials, on the one hand,{and

defend their interests in civil suits on the other? It just will

not work. :
It is obvious that the public is deeply troubled by the

findings of the investigations into the intelligence service.

In a recent Harris Survey, 80 percent of those interviewed agreed
"it was wrong for the FBI to send a note to Martin Luther King '
suggesting that he commit suicide. " 74 Percent agreed "it was
wrong for the CIA to work out a deal with Mafia characters to
try to assassinate Castro." And 61 percent agreed “it was a
violation of basic rights for the CIA and FBI to conduct spying
on prominent Americans here at hone."

The government must move decisively. To avoid charges of
a whitewash, it is in the best interests’of the Justice Depart-
ment to disqualify itself in this case.

What is vital now is to guarantee a full, thorough and
independent investigation. A special Prosecutor should be en-
listed for this purpose, and given sufficient authority to fully
perform the task. :

‘last year, the American Bar Association Committee to Study
Federal Law Enforcement Agencies addressed itself in a prelimi-
nary report to the question of a special -prosecutor. The
Committee rejected the’ establishment of a permanent special
prosecutor, but noted that "the public must be assured that crimes
committed in high places will be investigated and prosecuted
fearlessly and with integrity." To this end, the ABA Comnittee

properly concluded:

“T=

NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 63



NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 64
Ae eee

There may be exceptional circumstances
requiring a special. prosecutor from out-
side the Department of Justice who is
not dependent on the Attorney General

or the President for future promotion

or other preferment. The primary obli-
gation to appoint such an attorney should
reside in the Attorney General.

The relationship between the Justice Department and the
intelligence service unquestionably presents us with an excep-
tional circumstance. :

The person chosen to perform the task of special prosecutor
must Possess the same impartiality and strength of resolution
which Leon Jaworski demonstrated during his appearance before a
committee of Congress in 1973. The following exchange occurred

that year in hearings before the Senate Committee on the
Judiciary: :
Senator Tunney. So.as I understand your
statement today, you feel that if there
vidence of criminal activity which is
ctable, that you would be prepared to
move ahead with an investigation and in-
dictments despite the fact that the defen-
dants involved might be prepared to claim
that national security required them to
do what they did?

Mr. Jaworski. That is right, sir. And

they would have the burden of sustaining

that position. I would not assume the

burden. I would contest it.
The special prosecutor, mcreover, should be imbued with the same.
faith in the law that possessed John Adams, who knew that the
law "without any regard to persons, commands that which is good
and punishes evil in all, whether eich or poor, high or low --
'tis deaf, inexorable, inflexible." :

The basic machinery of a special prosecutor's office is

already in place as a legacy of the Watergate affair. It should.
Rot be too difficult to modify this machinery in the appropriate

manner to carry out the investigation of unlawfulness in the

intelligence agencies.



It may be argued that we should concentrate on the reform
of the intelligence agencies for the future, not on the punish-
ment of individuals for misdeeds of the past. This is a be-
guiling argument. But the truth is that we can ill-afford to
overlook the lawlessness of the past if we wish to avoid a
repetition in the future. As two scholars from the Center for
National Security Studies, Jerry J. Berman and Morton H. Halperin,
noted in a recent New York Times article:

One key element in bringing the intelligenée

agencies under democratic control is to insure
. that officials of intelligence agencies are

prosecuted when they violate the law. Unless

there is a thorough investigation by an impar-

-tial prosecutor followed by indictments and a

report, the threat of criminal penalties will

not deter future abuses.

I find it utterly deplorable that the President in his
State of the Union message failed completely to say even a word
about the need to make our intelligence agencies obey the law.
As the journalist Anthony Lewis has commented, "It is easy to
denounce private crime, as Mr. Ford did. But it is more important,
now, for Government to commit itself to law."

ui And so I must conclude that, in the present situation,
resort to a temporary speciai prosecutor is both proper and

necessary. Leon Jaworski, a former Special Prosecutor himself,

and others in the legal community agree with this conclusion.

LNW 55149 Docld:32989578 Page 65 ~9-



ro t 2- x) A. Mintz ©

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)
Mr. W. R. Wannall
Mr. W. 0. Cregar

The Attorney General : January 29, 1976
1 - Mr. S. F. Phillips

1

ee
1

Ly j Parector, FBI

U. Ss SENATE SELECT CONMITIEE
ON YTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (ssc)

Reference is. made“to SSC letter dated January 20,

1976, requesting access to or delivery of specified FBI oe

materials. oH
7 eae ‘ 7 7 a

Enclosed for your approval and forwarding to the Sth

SSC is the original of a memorandiim in respoiise to Item 1 i :

of referenced request. “Also enclosed is a copy of the . Y

memorandum for your records. VY Tees.

{Enclosures (2) MPR Ie 7
i 62n116395 RERENISUNDLASSEES

i i“ SI at

; OaTe WICob_.. BY Be tlnloy. “3

i - The Deputy Attorney General et

Attention: Michael E, Shaheen, Jr. paannl
oul Special Counsel for ‘ ;
a Intelligence Coordination gener

SFP: hb |hb ian
x (9) pec. 114 ba Met eaxe. a

i FES 19 1976

ee eee ee
gao® i
: aera Ae yoe (P

ee

Inspection «a "1 ; te sf AG Cr

Intell.

Laboratory —__ (| 7
ing t “
Legal Coun... 7 ‘
Telaphene Rm.

wf" Sia a ain paeenzyre unit

GPO 9346545



rf @

- Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)
Mr. W. R. Wannall
Mr. W. 0. Cregar

Mr. S. F. Phillips

62-116395 : January 29, 1976 \ p

ree ON
;

a

U. S. SENATE SELECT C°MMITIZE TO
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT 10 INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

wized person

RU CRMEO UNIVERSES TTS]

Reference is made to SSC letter dated
January 20, 1976.

4 to official proceedings by

quest and is not for dissemi
sed to unauthoi

7 Item 1 of referenced letter requested access
to all material furnished to the FBI "by the CIA from
a@ snurce known tn the FBI as 'COLGS' and who was handled
as a source under the heading 'raclal extremist matters,’ "
It was indicated in Item 1 that CIA had already given
the Committee Staff access to the material in its
Ppossessinn relating to this source.

I
i, +

proval of the EBL»

spel without the express appro
[ed
B
ic}

In view of the Third Agency considerations
present, this request was discussed on Jarnmary 23, 1976,
by a representative of this Bureau with Mr. Walter Elder
of the CIA Review Staff. Mr. Elder advised that CIA

had no record of "“COLGS" but that it did have information

JEK Act 6 (1)(A

JEK Act 6 (1){A

This document ds prepared in ‘response to y

has seen everything which CIA has in its Files concerning
"GLOGS," including the appreximate 30 memoranda which CIA (
had furnished to the FBI. Elder expressed the preference ~)
that this Bureau respond tn the referenced request by ‘} uv

referring the SSC back to CIA. hee

‘Admin, ——— J.

Comp, Syst. — .

barpeodpiotant FBI files contain a single reference to_"CLOGS,"! ’

Gen. iv. that being a CIA memorandum dated May 17, 1971, ce
2 ca sre oo

ease! Sy ee wi “WOE

tic
SFP:1hb|hlo ORIGINAL AND ON COPY TO AG |
(8)

Legal Coun. —— mote
Telephone Rm. —

(iE fil Kk
Director See'y— MAIL ROOM(__] TELETYPE UNIT [eee be \ ml 1975 © - §60-020

WW 55149 Decld:32989578 Page 67 a séicaeee ISSSRGEEERESEESEG, |
iy sedi

Plan, & Eval. —
Spee. Inv.
Troining

“SEE Nore PAGE 2



SENAIR SELECY COMMITYER OW INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (ssc)

On January 26, 1976, Special agent Seymor Fred
Phillips of this Bureau esnferred with Mr. Jehn 1. ELLLE£,
Direetar, Derestic Intelligence Task Force, SSC, and
teld C1Li£f af our findings beth as ta vhut our Files
eantained and what Elder had teld us. Inquiry was made
nf ELLL££ as t» the necessity or pertinence of the SSC
requesting nf the FBI access tn materials which CIA had
furnished ta the FBI inasmuch as the SSC had already had
aceess te such material at CIA. Nentien was made of the
Third Agency ennsideration whieh ELLI££ indicated he was
engnizant of, but he stated the SSC's purpnse In making
the request was in the farm nf a deuble cheek te insure
the SSC gained access to all nf the material it desired.

It was explained te ELLI££ that this request,
in light of the faeters involved, would place an undue
burden on the FBI as there right mt be any vay te retrieve
the infermatien it vas requesting tr sce. This print was
emphasized by the fact that FBI indices eentained nly a
single reference ta "CLOGS," that referred tr. above.

ELLI££ respended that he veuld check vith the
member nf the SSC Staff handling this matter and further
advise.

mn January 27, 1976, BILL£E advised Phillips
that he had checked out the matter and, in view of all
the factors present, it wruld be unnecessary for che
Bureau ta take any further action on Tren 1 »f the
Jamuary 20, 1976, request ether than ta submit the instant
momarandun,

1 - The Attorney General

NOTE: Contact with Elder at CIA was by Supervisor
Andrew J, Duffin of the Senstudy 75 Project.
-2-

NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 68
poe eee 3 Pag



5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Addressee:

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535
SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

cetr

4

Originating Office,

Delivered by:
¥
Received by:

Title:

(&] LHM

U. S, Senate Select Committee (SSC).
Caption of Document:

1/29/76

(Memo (pReport dated

(SSC Letter 1/20/76, Item 1)

ec Date fa feb— |

FBI

Return this receipt to the Intelligence Division, FBI

|

Sg aeeie=-- eters -etogha te: Page 69

MDR-~I6
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

v
HEREIN ji UNCLASSIFIED oN Mie

ey

bh? Me ZA



SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE
CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE BEFORE COMPLETING.

TO: Intelligence Community Staff
ATIN: Central Index

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1, HOW PROVIDED (check appropriate term. If a document was made available 2. DATE PROVIDED
for review but not transmitted, so note.)

DOCUMENT BRIEFING interview | TESTIMONY OTHER

1/29/76

NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 79

+ TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)

+ IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; give name or identification number of briefer,
interviewee, testifier and subject)

Memorandum

. IN RESPONSE TO (list date and item number if in response to formal request, other- | 6. CLASSIFICATION OF

wise state verbal request of (name), initiative, subpoena, etc.) INFORMATION (enter|
“ u, ¢, S, TS or

Codeword)

SSC request 1/20/76, Item 1 U

. KEY WORDS (enter the appropriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not listed are
used underline for emphasis) |

Intelligence Activities, Domestic
Civil Unrest —

. SUMMARY (See reverse side before completing this item)

Information requested regarding "Clogs," a source handled
under heading "Racial Extremist Matters." Request
withdrawn as handled by CIA previously.

MDR

TAINED
nuncimiron co y
nereW Ifa BY 55.0.3 mi el

62116395

AJD:1hb ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX
(4) IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75,

TREAT As VEULW gb}

“The We? Oe ae 13 7 4

3791 (6.75)



eee eee

BDY- joy

INSTRUCTIONS |

e Type or print clearly in ink. al ace

© Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.
e@ Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

e "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the
information.

e If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to
HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a
copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing 4
substance of information and showing relationship to Imtelligence Comhiunity
matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests
should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be
noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,
e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether
interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript
is provided, that fact Should be noted and no summary is required. Additional
pages may be attached if necessary,

ay

oe o ®

NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 71



OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

FEB 12 1976

a TO: John A, Mintz, Assistant Director
5 Legal Counsel Division
ve Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: Steven K. Blackhurst
6 Assistant Special Counsel for
5 Intelligence Coordination

, SUBJECT: SSC Request for Interviews of Additional FBI Agents

Attached is a letter from the easeee Select
Committee requesting the names of thé authors” 6f various
“FBI Memoranda and that the SSC be allowed to interview
a these individuals. Please arrange for an appropriate

and prompt response.

A similar request from the SSC concerning the Lie
authors of a memorandum from the Chicago field office
is expected shortly.

HW - Orrocaynee Beabernne
indy, |b

Saja alo

cc: Paul Daly

Abe. geo LA- 1/6395: 1394
EXCL BESIND a 2 FEB 18 1976

er
aut 7 5 “A aN

re

®
54 MAR 2 3.1076 oo578 Page 72

i
i"



FEB 1 2 1976

Ww
7

John A. Mintz, Assistant Diroctor
Legal Counsel Division
Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: Steven K. Glackhurst
we Assistant Special Counsel for
Intelligence Coordination

SUBJECT: SSC Request for Interviews of Additional FBI Agents

Attached is a letter from the Senate Select
Committee requesting the names of the authors of various
GBI memoranda and that the SSC be allowed to interview
these individuals. Please arrange for an appropriate
and prompt response.

A similar raquest from the SSC conccrning the
authors of a memorandum from the Chicago field office
is expected shortly.

Mpk lb

cc: Paul Daly

55149 DociId:32389578 Page 73



SS

°. 7 .

[FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN
JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN ,

Pras A snares {lt || mapeacee ele cee
TAMER HART MH, NOWARDM. mace, aT
Trererecmmmocencey,  SAMArSnGawngeR A
Reetraonenegao' Sas Seine :
were
: Muited Hiates Senate

WiLLaM G. MiLtcn, erarm pintcToR
FREDERICK A. 0. SCHWARZ, JR, CHIEF COUNSEL
CURTIS R. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL, Soler COMME Eo,
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
(PURSUANT To 5S. RES. 21, 4TH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

. February 11, 1976

The Honorable Edward H. Levi. : MbR |
Attorney General of the United States rz, b
U. S. Department of Justice TH
Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

As'a part of the Select Committee on Intelligence's
preparation of a final report on FBI intelligence operations,
we are seeking to take the testimony of persons whose memo-
randa and statements might be quoted in that report.

In our investigation into the FBI's role in the "gang
war" between the’Black Panther Party and the U. S. organization,
certain portions of Bureau Memoranda and Airtels may be quoted.
The following is a list of these documents. Actual copies,
received by the Select Committee from the FBI, are.also
enclosed. ‘

Memorandum SAC, Los Angeles to Director FBI 11/29/68 .

7 Memorandum Director, FBI to SAC Los Angeles 10/31/68
Memorandum SAC, Los, Angeles to Director, FBI 3/17/69

* ‘Memorandum SAC, San Diego to Director, FBI 6/5/69

ad ‘Memorandum SAC, San Diego to Director, FBI 6/6/69
Memorandum SAC, Los Angeles to Director, FBI 9/3/69
Memorandum SAC, San Diego to Director, FBI 9/18/69
Memorandum SAC, San Diego to Director, PBI 10/6/69
Memorandum SAC, San Diego to Director, FBI 11/10/69
Memorandum SAC, San Diego to Director, FBI 12/3/69
Memorandum SAC, San Diego to Director, FBI 11/12/69

The Select Committee staff would greatly appreciate
your forwarding to us the names of the FBI personnel
responsible for the preparation of these Bureau memoranda.
We would also greatly appreciate your making the necessary
arrangements for Select Committee staff to be able to inter-
view these persons. :

tion to this matter will be greatly

Yours very truly,

LA CLL 2

Frank Church . +
Chairman



Ly

TO

FROM

aaaPReeeeeEee fe ee ia ial

we
‘OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10 ry s010-106 - e

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN, REG. NO. 27

a
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Assoc. Dir, —

d t - Mr. W. R. Wannall Dep. AD Adm.
M - Mr. W. O. Gregar ‘ i
emoranaum 1 - Mr. P. E. Nugent
Mr. W. R. Wannall Vi pare: 2/12/76
: W. 0. Cregarlpoe MbR It Intell.
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED feiateesraat
oe) HEREIN) 9 UNGLASSIFIED “Ali hete
SUBJECT: U, §, SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE _ DATEL BY pe oes
ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) bel Com
veer Telophone Rm. —
rector Sec'y —_
Ip
BA

84)

MAR

49

Purpose of this memorandum is to advise of VW
delivery of the attached documents to the captioned committee
on authorization of Mr. Steven Blackhurst, Deputy Special
Counsel for Intelligence Coordination, Department of Justice.

By way of background, the SSC previously requested
access to all Bureau materials in the Martin Luther King, Jr.,
file relating to the Poor People's Campaign and the Sanitation
Workers Strike, Memphis, Tennessee, from 1/1 - 4/4/68, as well

the same period.

as all materials in the latter two files pertaining De

A partial proffer of materials requested wa, made
available to SSC Staff Member Michael T. Epstein for review
on 2/9/76. Ps

The attached documents were thereafter designated by
Epstein for delivery to the SSC. On 2/9/76 Mr. Steven
Blackhurst, Deputy Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination,
Department of Justice orally authorized SA Seymor F. Phillips
to make delivery of the requested items to the SSC, It should
be noted the Department by memorandum dated 1/27/76 was furnished
a complete set of the documents from which Epstein selected

those to be delivered on 2/9/76. ba Me Soe 1373

For information and record purpos FEB 17 1976

ACTION: Rec-100

nclosures IND FILE
PEN:adn 24. ENGL By
(4) \y
: Qe
7

4 IMB .csos78 Page 75



Aszoe. Dir, -y—
Dep. AD Adm. —

R. J. Gallagher Dep. AD Inve —

Memorandum aaa ae

Admin,
Comp. Syst. —

Mr. WheoR. Wanna Ly }A- 2/12/76 Ext. Affairs —

W. 0. Cregar Inspoction ——
FROM : W. OJ Cregar A. J. Duffin Intell.

Laboratory —_

O f- pani
supject{ SENSTUDY 75 tant

_— Legal Coun,
DL ‘Telephone Rm. —
Yin Director Sec’y —

On 2/10/76, Supervisor Jack Hagerty, Tampa
Division, telephonically advised Senstudy Project that
one Jack Bauman, 600 Lake Martha Drive, N. E., Winter Haven
Florida, had received a subpoena to appear before the
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSC) on 2/19/76.

‘OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 1010-106
AT 1962 EDITION ® i)
5A GEN, REC, NO. 27

1 -RNMENT

NITED STATES GO

For background information, Bauman, an ex-CIA
employee, was a witness for the Government during the
Watergate investigation and was interviewed extensively
by the Bureau during same, Due to a serious heart conditi oon
he did not travel to Washington to testify in 1973, but
then AUSA Earl Silbert, Washington, D. C., flew to Florida
for Bauman's deposition,

Prior to Bauman's scheduled appearance: before
the SSC, Michael Madigan, an SSC Staff Member, and
Jack Dempsey of CIA's Review Staff (CIA's Senstudy Project
counterpart) are to interview Bauman at his residence in
Florida in the presence of his attorney, Wallace L. Storey,
In this regard, Bauman has requested SA Brooke D. Roberts
of Lakeland, Florida, RA (who interviewed Bauman during
Watergate) presence during this interview, along with
any documents which may refresh his (Bauman's) recollection

of prior stat t his m ling. 4y*
prior statements as his memory tei" Le. Mb 29 i BIA

Hagerty desired to know whether or not cei
should sit in on upcoming interview and have FD<:302 of. os
his prior interview of Bauman available,

FEB 138 176

! 62~116395 a
AgD:1nbl hb mba lv ‘CONTINUED ~ OVER
(5) ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

L-
HERENYSUNGLASSIIED thn vin Jet

“w

wh A FEB28 agpeeoos7s He Page 76



Nw 55149,

Memorandum to Mr, W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

SA Andrew J, Duffin, through Mr. Walter Elder,
CIA Review Staff, on 2/10/76, determined that CIA was
in fact to participate in an interview of Bauman with
an SSC Staff Member in the near future, He is to be
interviewed regarding his prior contact with E. Howard
Hunt and Project Merry Mack, acronym for CIA's efforts
to prevent any electronic penetration of their building
during its construction, CIA hopes that interview will
negate the necessity of Bauman having to answer SSC
subpoena, as they feel it will show he will not ‘be: the
"hot" witness that SSC anticipates.

Subsequently, Hagerty was advised of above and
that Roberts should not participate in interview, as it
was an SSC interview and only concerned them and CIA,

ACTION:

None. For information,

wy A CFRidre
i

DociId:32989578 Page 77



OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL,
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20530

FEB 1 0 1976

TO: ‘ohn A. Mintz, Assistant Director
egal Counsel Division
Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: Steven K, Blackhurst
Assistant Special Counsel for
56 Intelligence Coordination

SUBJECT: ~ Senate Select Committee Request
dated February 4, 1976

Attached-is a letter from the Senate Select
Committee dated February 4, 1976. It is my under-
standing that the FBI has already declassified the
documents in question and that this letter is for
record keeping purposes only.

MOR |b
ABN Le a
= Hoja “ EHL

cc: Paul Daly

REG-100

a GA Me 395--137]

Beose 1978
5149 Docld:32989578 _ Page 7



TO:

PROM:

SUSTECT:

ec:

John A. Mintz, Assistant Director
Legal Counsel Division
FPoderal Bureau of Investigation

Steven «, Blackhurst
Assistant Special Counsel for
Intelligence Coordination

Senate Select Cormittes Request
datcd February 4, 1976

Attachei is a letter from the Senate Select
Committea dated February 4, 1976.
standing that the FRI has already declassified the
documents in quastion and that this lettor is for
record keeping purposes only,

Paul Daly

NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 79

FEB 1 0 1976

It is my undar-



. BeUEPBEnaen . . be aes panenee!

7 e ae td
:
Zignineeiit acini
ee Sty
PHILIP A, HART, MICH, HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., TENN.
WALTER F. MONOALE, MINN. BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.
Slee eee [lense ee
Rae soecac net i cleat cena

,
bereduelai need Fetes reropeenrtiretinte Writes Dtates Denate

FREDERICK A. 0. SCHWARZ, JR., CHIEF COUNSEL,
‘CURTIS R. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL SELECT COMMITTEE TO
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT To 5. RES-2, H4TH CONGRESS)
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20510

February 4, 1976

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr. Esq.

Special Counsel for Intelligence

i Coordination

| Office of the Deputy Attorney General
U. S. Department of Justice
Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Mike:
The Select Committee requests that those

documents which are to be exhibits to the public hearings

on domestic intelligence activities be declassified for

public release.

These exhibits have been submitted to Mr. William
0.Cregar of the Bureau and the previously agreed upon
eriteria are being used in the excision process.

Your cooperation in this matter is again appreciated.

Sincerely,

John T. ELliff
Director
Domestic Intelligence Task Force

eNcEOsTy
S-NW—55149  _Docld:32989578 Page Le Wb 3 7S istenn fay) 5



~ + opmionat rom No. 10
; move 1962 EDITTON.
G5A GEN, REG, NO, 27

UNITED STATES oo

5010-106

*

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm. —

1 - Mr. Mintz Dap. AD Inv.
Memorandum 1 = Mr. Wannall “Mian”
1 - Mr. Daly ee Aas
TO Mr. W.R. Wannall DaTE: 2/9/76
tee att os cee wo a |
7 . Ba Ins pectic
hs J.G. deee 1 A - oa Paper eb
‘4 ve 1 - Mr. Newman ~ Plon. & Eval. —
(umzcr: SENSTUDY '75 7 fe cL
i" Legal Coun,
is a | Telephone Re —
Director Sec'y
Memorandum from Legal Counsel to Mr. J.B.

Adams dated 1/29/76 (copy attached) recorded authority

for Inspector-Deputy Assistant Director Hunter E. Helgeson,
Number One Man Homer A. Newman, Jr., IS-1 Section, and
Unit Chief Edward P. Grigalus, IS-2 Section, Intelligence
Division, to appear to give a deposition before Staff
Member Robert Kelly of captioned Committee. This deposi-
tion would be for the purpose of further elaborating on
information previously furnished to the Committee rega: di,
the handling of security and extremist informants.

As was previously agreed, Mr. Kelly telephonically .

advised Supervisor Newman on 2/6/76 that this deposition
would be taken in Room G-308 of the Dirksen Building at
10:30 a.m. on Tuesday, 2/10/76.

He indicated that the purpose of this deposition
was merely to clarify certain points in connection with
information previously furnished regarding security and
extremist informants. These areas were indicated as being:
(1) explanation of the difference between confidential
sources, informants and panel sources; (2) statistics as

to the number of confidential sources as of 6/30/75 compared

with some available figure, if possible 1971; (3) what
problems are being encountered in connection with the
utilization of confidential sources in view of the Privacy

‘Acts; (4) lanation of Ameri C 4
gram and Plant Enfommant, Program, Walle Estna Meck ort 36

grams and the dates they were in existence; (5) asbnief- -

explanation of how informants are paid, i.e., paid on.

authority of the SAC as opposed to FBIHQ approvaltof+ i pay= wie

tap (B)/I | a CONTINUED - OVER
{WrORMATION CONTAINED Pil
Neel NSS af c ae
DATE BY ; %

 SwASBER 2ibdg7g32980578 Page 81



‘Memorandum to Mr. W.R. Wannall
RE: SENSTUDY '75

ments and whether there is a limit on the amount FBIHQ
can approve, and (6) bring for review a teletype to
all SACs dated 12/23/74 (see attached) dealing with
the conduct of informants.

If approved, the employees as indicated above
will appear as requested and furnish the deposition
regarding the above numerated areas of informant opera-
tions.

This matter has been coordinated with the
Legal Counsel Division.

wo NaEd Fer,

“ACTION: dover Prom
pee) Represey sent
For approval. A cid, 76 OF
or appro i) pea He: Heh Geson

wy? 7

NW 55149 Docld:32989578 Page 82



M ‘emorandung ee eer

+ Mr. J. B. Adams 7 DATE: 1/29/76
is 1 - Mr. Hotis
ha ete ‘jJ'- Mr. Daly

* Legal counsel .

: SENS peste : J
ISTUDY 75 : : wy

” RECOM

« . 1 = Myr. Cregar

Loboretory —
Legal Coun, V__
Pton.& Evol,
Spe. Inv,
Troining
Telephone Rm. —
Director Soe'y
Robert Kelly, Staff Member of captioned Committee,
requested that the Bureau-make available a representati or
representatives to give a deposition to captioned Comnittee
concerning security extremist informant matters. Kelly
suggested that SA Edward P. Grigalus and SA Homer A. Newman,
Jr., would be the Bureau's witnesses who would legically have

x -

«the information the Committee is seeking through this deposition.

_ In this regard, SAs Grigalus and Newman have previously
briefed Mr. Kelly concerning Bureau informant matters. Kelly
stated that as soon.as the Bureau witness or witnesses have been
determined, he would -furnish additional details concerning the
type of information he desires to be furnished in the deposition.

«

That the Intelligence Division designate the appropriate
Bureau witness or witnesses to give a deposition concerning in-
formant matters.

7
dy? _ Leprestntative of hese /Civasey 7
lid a / with atdend d rf necessory.
wire [fa fin

ADDENDUM: INTELLIGENCE DIVISION: _ HEH:enm 2/2/76

Inspector ~ Deputy Assistant Director Hunter E. Helgeson,

“#1 Man Homer A. Newman, Jr., IS-1 Section; and Unit Chief Edward P.

Grigalus, IS-2 Section, Intelligence Division, will be available for depositions
in this matter.

(7) : (as
dR I ramen (O97
ALLINFORI A ON SJ ft f
“HERE! a
ORE 2B} 7 c . hut
pa a ye
_ wee 7 G2. aad as -1367
WW 55149 T'Docld 32989578 Page ZS*s¢: wero

laiataratiorta

Sy ertineeentegh, vtneranometiit nmin: ant Sinbanetenentnn pepe vents =



“copE @ S cers Peers e 7 :

a f ry - L- ALL Assistant
1 7 : : “ Directors.
; ay apcieail -+ . " DRCEMBER 23, 1974
r : SH ee 7 “ - 3 - My: Shackelford
. TO: ALU SACS : i Poe seeeeeeEee, yz ~ Mx. Grigalus
ROM: DIRECTOR, FBI. a
; nse : 7
*CONDUCT AND ACTIVITIES OF ESP as

BY MEMORANDUM TO ALL SPECIAL AGENTS TX CHARGE, DATED
’

DECEMBER 5, 1973, CAPTIONED “CONDUCT AND ACTIVITIES OF,

EMPLOYEES ,"' YOU, WERE ADVISED THAT AS MEMBERS OF A FEDERAL
/
INVESTIGATIVE AGEKCY FBI TMPLOYEES MUST AT ALL TiNES

ZEALOUSLY GUARD AND DE END TRE RIGSTS AnD LIBERTIES GUARANTEE
IQ ALL INDEVIDUALS BY THE COX ‘STITUTION. FBI EMPLOYEES WERE
REWINOE BD’ THAT THEY Lust RG EXGAGE Te ANY “INVES STIGATIVE ACTIVITY

WHICH COULD ABRIDGH TE RIGHTS GU!

BED TO A CITIZEN OF THE
U.S. BY THE CONSTITUTION AND UNDER ko CIRCUMSTAECES SEALL
EMPLOYEES OF THE Fai ENGAGE IN ANY CONDUCT WHICH MAY RESULT IN

-» DEFAMING THE CHARACTER, REPUTATION, INPEORETY OR DIGNITY OF ANY
: OxEtaEn oR ORGANIZATION OF CITIZENS OF TWE ULS.

YOU ARE REMINDED THAT THESE INSTRUCTION 3 RELATE TO B
«2 INFORMANTS IN INTERNAL SECURITY FIRLD AND No! INFORMANT

BE OPERATED IN Al JANNER WHICH WOULD BE IN CONTRADICTI

patente mnt ANA Net anti tttrinen fostered

suCcH _JNSTRUCT IONS .

EPG:djr . _ :° areeaee

a Lele a

; F :
HEREIN ATION CONTA

i . YS UN NCLASSIF ,
| DATE ED
ee a Sine

EV SLOSURE #62 Wh 3 Aw 1364

NW 55149 Doela/34989578. - Page" as, eons : Coap rT esmnnnsnnenaagl



LO ALL ee
Cl AND ACTIVITIES OF EMPLOYEES

‘GUSH PRINCIPLES MUST “BE IPT IN NIND BY YOU AT ALL
TIMES, AGAIN, THE SPIRIT AS- WELL AS THE' LETTER OF THE LAW
“XS OUR GOAL, Pe lire i es le ei eee lls Prien r erie cinigiitiey

. Aisanieign
cnet a”
2
ie .
. e -
7 s
|
| 7
=
e °
ma : ey

od 7

Soars  netacatesoeti® pies GEE
NW 55149 Docld: 325895 Page 65."



‘OPTIONAL FORK NO. 10 010-106

AY 1962 EDITION
115A GEN, REG, NO, 27

NITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

Mr, W. R. Wannall

W. 0, cxegen| 0
SENSTUDY 3)

Mr. J. .

Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)
Mr. R. J. Gallagher
Mr, W. R. Wannall
pate: 1/29/76

Mr. R. L. Shackelford
Mr. J. G. Deegan
- Mr. S. S. Mignosa
- Mr. . Cassidy
Mr. Cregar
Mr. McNiff

BRE NE

SUBJECT:

PRERER

Hs
agou

—_

At the request of the Senate Select Committee
(SSC), a briefing session was held between SSC Staff
Members and representatives of this Bureau at FBIHQ on
1/28/76 during the approximate hours 1:00 to 5:00 p.m.
The purpose of this briefing was to_have SSC Staff
Members advise t) eau the £ subject
Matters to be discussed at the SSC Executive Session
schedu. to be held 272 at :00 a.m., cone
‘the subject matter "Domestic Intelligence investi -LONS «
Representing the SSC were John EITTEE >» Mark Gitenstein
and Michael Epstein, Bureau representatives included
Assistant Director W. Raymond Wannall, Branch Chiefs
Thomas W, Leavitt and Hunter E, Helgeson, Section Chiefs
Joseph G, Deegan, Robert L. Shackelford, Sebastian S.
Mignosa and Supervisors Homer A, Newman, David Ryan,
Arthur G, Pote, Andrew J. Duffin, Donald J. McGerty,
Don K, Pettus and Thomas J. McNiff, all of the
Intelligence Division, and Special Agent John B. Hotis,
Legal Counsel Division.

John E1liff advised that it is expected that
the Bureau will, at the Executive Session,opem with a
prepared statement concerning the potential for violence
in this country principally as it pertains to the
fortheoming bicentennial celebration as ra ntLy/
publicized by Bureau officials. He thelf’stated4
to be discussed at this scheduled Executive Sesion
will fall into the following four general area$s;

opics

* 62-116395

TJM: Lhb (hb
(12)

Mpa Ve

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED - sas

EINIS UNCLASSIFIED.’

DAE eyo Br SRAM eye’
—_ 5

Sse ten on pattem

CONTINUED - OVER

84 FEB23 1976

NW 55149 DocId:32989578

\
Page 86

WG

f
é

AM CIR

prea comets

Assoc. Dip,

Cdinp. Syste —
Ext. Affairs —
Files & Com. —
Gon. Inv.

Inspect

Tivol.

Leboratory

Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm. —
Director Sec'y —

os
mol

pn

1367]



NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 87

Memorandum to Mr, W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

(1) The type of material upon which FBI
bases its assessment of potential for terrorist violence.

(2) Investigative techniques and intelligence
gathering activities utilized by the Bureau to collect
material upon which above assessments are based.

(3) Examples whereby Bureau intelligence
investigations in the past have been responsible for
uncovering information subsequently used by this Bureau
to prevent violence,

(4) Ultimate threat, as compared to the
immediate threat, which basic revolutionary organizations
pose to the security of this country.*

E11if£ offered that none of the above areas
have been prejudged by SSC Members and stated that
substantial differences exist in these areas among
Senators composing the SSC,

Mark Gitenstein then noted that this Bureau -
has furnished the SSC with documents pertaining to a
number of examples where information, developed as a ata
result of intelligence investigations, was responsible cea
for initiating preventive-type action, He requested, “F
if possible, additional examples of a substantive nature fii eg
which would help establish the necessity for intelligenc
investigations. Additionally, he requested futther:delivery Pi v
documents helping to clarify Bureau actions in four of
the previously furnished preventive-type actions referred
to above,

* Meeting scheduled for afternoon of CONTINUED - OVER
1/29/76 by Intelligence Division tn formulate Bureau's
position in abave four - 2 -
general areas.



Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

E1liff also requested that, in preparation
of the forthcoming Executive Session, the SSC be furnished
with statistics covering the number of bombings which
occurred in this country for as far back as 10 years,
if such information is available.

Elliff concluded by saying that he intends
to present, on 1/29/76, to SSC Members a typed agenda
for the scheduled Executive Session and, when approved,
he will furnish the Bureau a copy of same on 1/30/76.

OBSERVATIONS :

A large segment of the above briefing was
consumed by ELLiff expounding on his personal views
(and Bureau rebuttal thereto, where applicable) concerning
domestic intelligence investigations, E11iff stated
that such investigations should only be conducted when
a criminal violation or a distinct potential for same
vis present, For this reason he believes that informants
should not be targeted against domestic organizations
or individuals unless the potential for criminal
violence is present, and that investigations of domestic
organizations and individuals should be removed from
the Bureau's Intelligence Division and transferred to
the Bureau's General Investigative Division. The
Intelligence Division would then become the Counterintelligence
Division and would handle only intelligence investigations
having foreign ramifications which he said would include
the Communist Party but not organizations such as the
Socialist Worker's Party. Continuing, he stated his
belief that valuable intelligence-type information
concerning domestic organizations and individuals would

CONTINUED - OVER

NW 55149 DoclId:32989578 Page 88



Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

naturally flow from our criminal investigations in
these areas, With regard to determining the potential
for civil unrest, E11iff postured that accurate infor-
mation in this field could be obtained through overt
contact with civic leaders and not through covert use
of informants. To support the latter position, ELLiff
quoted unnamed former officials of the now defunct
Interdepartment Information Unit (IDIU) who readily
stated the majority of the Bureau information furnished
that Unit emanated from public sources. In essence,
ELLiff made the observation that he was opposed to
domestic intelligence-type investigations as currently
conducted by this Bureau and he advocated that any
investigation of a domestic organization or individual
be based upon criminal statute, It was noted that
Elliff, though not equating "potential" with probable
cause, had difficulty specifically defining "potential"
in the above context,

RECOMMENDATIONS :
(1) That Legal Counsel Division maintain
eclese liaison with John ELLif£ to obtain formal copy

of approved agenda for scheduled 2/2/76 SSC Executive
Session, :

CONTINUED - OVER

NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 89
lal EEE EL



Memorandum to Mr, W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

(2) That representatives of Intelligence
Division, in concert with Legal Counsel Division, prepare
requested opening statement concerning potential for
violence in this country to be used at above Executive
Session,

(3) That IS-1 Section, Intelligence Division,
deliver to Senstudy Unit for referral to SSC documentary
material requested concerning four preventive-type cases
mentioned above. Identity of specific cases will be
furnished separately to IS-1.

(4) That CI-3 Section, Intelligence Division,
deliver to Senstudy Unit for referral to SSC statistical
information concerning the number of bombings in this
country for as many years as such information is readily
available but not to exceed 10 years,

cay 8%

NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 90



rity,
i]

14
fl

oe oe ee _—

y
7 William uf ALeNCe
- 314 Swiss-Pine Lake Dr.
4 : Spruce Pine,N.C.28777,
February 7,1976

Mp a Ve
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Investigation “ HERE !CLASSIF! v
20535 —— fp DATE NETO" BY ey
ae en ae ee (b

RE: Criticisms-of-FBI-By U.S. Senator,
Robert B Morgan of North Carolina

Reference my letter of January 23,1976 addressed to you and
enclosing data concerningpublicly uttered adverse remarks about
the FBI made by U.S. Senator Robert B.Morgan(D) »N-C., on
January 15,1976 before the Asheville,N.C.Chamber of Commerse,
and my letter of rebuttal to Senator Morgan dated January 24.

Since then the "Asheville Citizen" Asheville N.C. printed
@ portion of my rebuttal in its January 30,k976 issue, in an
articke titled:"Retired Agent Questions Morgan's. FBI position”
A copy of this news item is enclosed.

Also I've received replies from U.S. Senator Jesse Helms,
(R),N.C. and from U.S.Representative, Roy A.Taylor, (D),N.C.
who represents the Eleventh Congressional District and which .
ineludes the Ashevill and Spruce Pine areas. I'm enclosing
copies of their replies which you will find are s&pportive
and encouraging. In fact, Mr. Taylor went out of his way to
support the FBI in his remarks of January 22,1976 in the
Congressional Record. Acopy of his remarks is also enclosed.

Finally, on February 5, 1976 I received a réply from
Senator Morgan,dated February 3,976 which was less than
favorable. A copy of his letter is enclosed. Today I
am replying to Mr. Morgan in the form of a letter to him
dated February 7, a copy of which I'm enclosing for you.

These efforts may prove to have been in vain- but if
One convictions as I have and fails to take a stand, he
is more remiss than one who is neuti '6e who has no convic
at all. or. [NA
: With frie i m yh. TAYE
give up Bepatt nds like Jesse Helms and Hove Tay. a
ft

sincerely,
Ltt hee & eT
Enclosures l- 2 William H, Lawrence : ae
@) - nen + ay
Ee
NOT RECORDED SAL caer ot a)
ane D : 2 ts
Lv go 5 8 48 PK 34 1976 7 FEB\Z9 1978
i yw a a
Cn oo ccd
oy se i so ™ =
BA. AP RE: MS s29895784 eter



a j 4 G
| rA~//63 79
| NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 32 a / So 7.

ae William H.. Lawrence

7 314 Swiss Pine lake Dr.
Spruce Pine,N.C 28777
February 7,1976

Mr,. Roberts Morgan, :
U.S. Senator, Norkh Carolina YOR’ orraineD

Unlted States Senate MATION v
Vashington, Bic. 20540 ALN GU CLASSIFIED, nLasleh
Dear Senator Morgan: DATE Mh

Reference my letter to you dated Jgnuary 24, 1976 and your
Shoughtful apd sincere reply dated February 3, 1976. y

I can appreéiate your due concern with what you sincerely
believe to be past abuses and errors of the FBI, I'm sure you
have heard some sordid testimony, and I'll be the first to. agree
that the FBI has had its fauits when compared with some theorétical
pertedtion.. :

I submit,however, that you heard onlly the worst, the most
glaring snd most shocking incidents which can only represent the
most infinitesemal number of cases, taken from hundreds of nhous-
ends of investigations. Much of the testimony heard by you em-
anated from disgruntled, sometimes disillusioned and less than
candid individuals, many of whose sense of values and objectivity
has changed, fir various reasons, with the passing of time. :

What you didn't hear was the testimony of thousands of
selfless citizens, many of whom risked their lives and personal
Safety to work undercover or semi-covertly in a sincere effort
to assist the FBI in protecting this country, it citizens and -
their civil liberties.

You didn't hear of the interminable and consistent FBI ‘
investigations: which scrupulously went the extra steps to protect.
the legal rights of individuals under investigation. Nor did you «.
hear the testimony of thousa,ds of fearful and concerned citizens,
parents and other close velatives of persons whose warped minds:
and actions were aimed at destroying our government and thereby
the civil liberties of thiir victims, both black and white.

From a philosophical as well as a preg matic standpoints perhaps
we can ageee that the potential harm to privacy must be weighed
against the necessity for law enforcement action in relation to
social and security needs at any given time,

If only one or the other of these interests is to be consid~
ered to the exclusion of the others irrationality results--and,
shoulé this irrationality persist protractedly, in either direct-
ion, our nation would tend to tyranny, namely, that of anarchy on
the one side or tyranny of police agencies on the other.

ENCLOSURE

47



NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 93

CE EE NS URES MAPLE OMAR EIR, Rien Grain. aah ee

jeapordizing, ofter in advance, pajor intelligence efforts’

Phas might be termed a balancing approach, an approach @hich

2 2
“has, ‘Bees,unnasognized by many of the FBI's Critics.

Moreover, in an effort to balance the right of. protection -
from violations of privamy ageinst other rights don't we have to

_Gecide, among other things, how much law enforcement agencies should

be allawed-to- infringe on the privacy of suspects in order to protec
the privacy--and all the vrights—- of other citizens--above ail the
rights of those latter citizens not to be victimiazed by law breakers
and/or politically or revolutionary motivated suspects? This is a
major dilemma.

I'm not opposed to Congessional guidelines or oversight S2-- -

the intelligence-agencies. But oversight and guidelines are

fraught with problems, For example,.is it possible for. our.current..
or future Congessmen to clearly and decisively predict conditions
which may confront the FBI and GIA years or even months from now?
For this reason.alone some flexibility is paramount. 7

Another perplexing issue comes to mind. Will Congress be
accountable if it is the ultimate judge or decision maker for our
intelligence and counter-intelligence operations?

In raising these questions I'm confident thas Congress will
ulimately pass some guideline legislation for our intelligence -
agenciesand will include therein a certain amount of oversight
provisions. stipulating some sort of prior restraint on propesed
tactics ox intelligence strategies.

With this in mind we have to recognize that internabibnally
there has always been a need for this country to learn things. that
people would not ordinarkly tell a foreigner—or that domestically,
there are things that a criminal or revolutionary would not. ordin~
arily tell a public official; nor would this type person lay his or
her activities bare to public scrutiny. It follows thatthese natural
manifestations of reluctance apd secrecy has always implied the use
of extraordinary, ofter covert investigative meams, Therefore, can
we have that desirable degree of and quantity of oversight without

Gan certain necessary operations be taken if public officials,
espe@ialiy elected officials, must stand up and take responsibility
for them--or for the failure to take them?

in reality anyone who knows about an intelligence operation
in advance will have, in effect, a Veto over it. For the simple
decision taken by oneself that "for the country's good” a plan
must be made public, will automabica,ly scuttle it. :

Moreover, there will be situations when a group of elested
officials will be charged Swith deciding, often after only short
emergency briefings, squeezed in between other important and
distracting public business, wheter to approve or disapprove some
audacious emergency covert operation. And, will they Gant to publicly



a ® oe

7 eee :

accept responsibility af their decision proves to be wrong?
Bhis is a sincere and searching question. :

- Isn't our main paradox perhaps that of the imperfection of.
human beings—- and, therefore, human instituiong which means that
we never get the choice between pure virtue and pure vice?

This is particularly true in the intelligence field. The
system must be realistically viewed as a proximate solution to
an insoluble problem. :

There has always: been and there always will be some sin,
some wrongdoing and some errors; of judgement in high placesy
including intelligence agencies. But it follows that the same

_ imperfections exist and will continue to exist in the remainder
of society. It is illusory to waits for a perfect solution, There
is nong. sueBESBESBLEBIEEEOR

Ones wa can agree on this, those of us of goodwill and
perseverence can fight for the better cause lest it lose out to
theworse, Once weeccept this understanding perhaps some of our
imperfections will not oceasion the cynicism and self flagellation
of our society that exists today.

With this in mind let us assume that the FBI and CIA did,

-0n Occasion exceed their authority. Let us not in our efforts

to corrects the preblem think that we can, by a strcke of legislation
eliminate any need for covert intelligence operations. For we

ean rest assured that neither the Russians nor the Chinese will
join us in this quest for a Utopian and nobler less secretive
international or domestic community. Any hasty, unilateral acts.

of. so-called purification on our part will not insure freedom in
the U.S. or stability abroad. : ; ;

ATE TET EEO BEE fa

In closing, while you and I do not currently see eye to eye
on this issue, we can, by confining our thoughts and statements
to the basic issues, as contrasted to denouncing personalities,
have a better chance of securing an ultimate meeting of the minds
in an effort to solve this complex and oftem/ seeming insurmount—
able enigma.

TREAT GR CTEMEREE FEED

very sincerely yours,

William H, Lawrence

:
§
‘

i

7
LNW 55149 Doold:32989578 Page 94



my 1970 retirement yenly-five i

i i of these years.were spent “in
| LG, edition, captioned: Gomestic and foreign inspire
fost Dangerous Thirea intelligence:type-operations.

This story reported com-
ints. made: ‘by.
pert Morgan-(Ds,
Reville Area :Chi
mmerce -on-*Jan, 35, Mr.
fTgan was quoted’ as saying!
t he considered the FBI to be
nation's most. dangerous '
at, adding, “It's just rotten
the core,” He elaborated that |,

BI has lied;.openned.maill
wiretaps. “illegally and;
‘ted organized campaigns}
discredit individuals. {
' He said that the FBI had:
recordings critical of
in Luther King Jr.. made|
be played for audiences that!
would be addressing.
. { am a retired FBI agent,
R 27 years service prior to
: _

4

” exaggerated:rbut. taken’ ‘oul
context, “resulting. in: his."d
«tinguished audience ‘teceiving

formation. - *

lluded to by |

“viewed. in. ‘Context, ‘to the
imes that ~ prompted them;,|
times of, bombings,- ‘massive

killings,  maimings

which were initiated by and led
by revolutionary extremists.
Nor should we forget the

looting of our major cities,

DA \e
A INFORMATION CONTAINED

| HEREIN i UNCLASSIFIED, Ren

/ NW 55149 Dock 2989578 Page 95

distorted ‘and misleading in-7 ~

In balance, the nation’s need * oyr

“ Ashewtl WC dare ane Bo, 1476

for internal Scritiny"

intensified,
recognized

they had -a ‘responsibility to would
My, response -is" ‘that’ ‘the | ‘respond and, “is .
charges-made- by’ Senator: Mor- Pad ae designed . to
ih wéte--ndt-Sonly““grossly | ‘neutralize, deter and contain}
ee eta violent” activities, &s : well’ -as
those threatening: - impending:

Ps i

violence, ~~

and

ficient

free society

be a prejudice favoring all but Kansas City, Missouri. It was U@tion's mest danger
the most violent
numerous riots, burning and | society?

EO

‘The central question for all.
of us should bé: Has the’ FBI,
with the i
on reflection; | dedicated local police agencies under the enlightened an
‘concerned citizens, leadership of Clarence Kelley? I.
provided. necessary and suf-;know Mr: Kelley and was!
‘ protection for the Dublic prvleged to: work under his,
tiots, destructive confrontations, and country ‘in the: domestie!immi liate supervision in 1961,i it i
and} inlelgence fel, in, contest:immediately prior to nis: PEM $0 vital to this coun

peripheral atrocities, ‘many of| with a recognition ‘that in any’ retirement following which he .% , publicly labelling it

Remember: The framers of, a8 its director. :
Constitution were not so T can certify Mr. Kelley as

s Morgan’s FBI
protection ‘SUré. of the invulnerability “

sa Sweat gt |
; 3 . honest; extn
FBI. employes ‘our form of government. Other-| 2” 4 kd
the danger, felt that wise the preamble. thereot! CO™petent, dedicated and
nok have, provided that | OTE IER
our government is to take sacrosanct pir 20 assur
measures to insure its domestic for no. nizatoon wal
tranquility and provide for. its 5e° jy een,
omrnon defense, This mandate| Footings tases ial OU
San endless and often’ correct sheds of meaty
Solving _ problems may
always.be in accord.

“It is one-thing to try
correct actual shortcomings
able tactical errors. of oor
telligence agencies, inclu
the FBI: but, it is quite anot
to wreck and demoralize

“good fai

‘i l awesome responsibility.

Wiiy is it so necessary fori
Senator’. Morgan to. castigate.
and Cavil the current FBI

elp- of countless’

there is and should: served as Chief of Police at}  T0tten to the core” and as“

attacks on‘ only two years ago that he threat.

{Feturned to the FBI, this ie William H. Lawrence
314 Swiss Pine Lake Dri
Spruce Pine



Robert 7

COPY @

North Carolina

UBITED STATES SENATE
Washington, D.C.20510

February 3, 1976

Mr. William H. Lawrence
314 Swiss Pine Lae Drive
Spruce Pine, North Carolina 28777

Dear Mr, Lawrences

Thank you for taking time to write me and for your

expression of your feelings about the Federal Bureau of
Investigation. I admire your loyalty to the organization
you served.

We have finished many long hours of hearing test-

imony regarding the activities of the FBI. Let me say

that

as a citizen and as. Attorney General of North

Carolina, I always. supported the FBI and defended it when
Io heard it criticized.

It gives me no pleasure now to hold it in less high

esteem than I did before, but after hearing testimony

about its activities, especially under Mr. Hoover, I

could reach no other conclusion but that the due process
clause and the civil liberties of individuals were violated
time after time. What may be worse, I got the feeling
from the testimony of present FBI officials that they
didn't plan to change things much, if at all.

I know that many fine people such as you served the

Bureau and thir country well, but I cannot disregard
the unchallenged testimony I heard during the past
several months.

EM/gpb

Thank you again for writing and with best wishes.

Sincerely yours,

Robert Morgan

Reply To:Post Office Drawer 2719,RaTeigh, North Carclina276
Federal Building-Cantury Post Office

poe Ie
ALL INFORMATION CONT ~

ATE

NW 55149 Docld:32989578 Page 96

HEREIN PYSESSy 1 hy lene

OU ae a
ya Me B98



. the FBI, the CIA, the Defense Department, the Conggess~-~.and in.

EXTENSION OF REMARKS OF CCNGESSMAN ROY. A. TAYLOR’

JANUARY 22,1976

Mr.Speaker, I would like to call my colleagues! attention to
the editorial appearing in the U.S. News &World Report of January
26,1976,titled "Is America Going Mad?". In line with the editorial
ere not segments of the press, television commentators , and many
spokesmen of the Congress going too far in emphasizing the negativ
and ignoring the positiveO-in dwelling on the mistakes of the past
arather than the problems of the present and the hopes of the futur
Are they not going too far in destroying the confidence of the
American people and of people abread in our American institutions-—

destroying the confidence in public officials both those serving
today and many whose honorable servise has ended with death-~-—
J.Edgar Hoover, John F.kennedy, Franklin Roosevelt.

Are they not tearing our nation to pieces in the eyes of the
world and weakéning fundamental institutions Phose effective
services are needed today and will be needed tomorrow, Why deel
so long on the negative a,d lose sight of the positive accomplish
ments, thereby giving people a defeatist attitude and placing doubt
and mistrust between the people apd their government.

This is serhous because without public confidence our Democracy
cannot operate and it cannot win and maintain respect abroad.
I,too, want to know the truth a,d Bes help right the wrongs
established , but once the truth has been revealed I am content
to let theffacts take their place in history and agree with the
editorial that no useful purpose is served by constantly repeating
the mistakes of the past.

The future belongs to the peofle,communities and nations who
ha..e faith in themselves and in what they stand for and in ideal
they are doing. My choice of a motto. for the Bicentennial
iad is “Take pride in America's past and take part in its
future.

The editorial follows:

me le oe
ALL ae oRMATTONCONTAN :
EIN IS UI SIFIED. nw) 4k
HERE Ob ey coat

sNCLOSUEG L 1 >
NW 55149 DoclId:32989578 Page 97 : F a 7H VL 3 Gs manuel


COPY :
ROY A.ZAYLOR
ilth District
North Carolina  congREss OF CHE UNITED STATES
House of Representatives
Bashington, D.C. 20515

, January 29,1976

Me. William H. Lawrence
314 Swiss Pine Lake Drive
Spmwiice Pine, North Carolina 28777

Dear Mr. Lawrencer

Thank you for your recent letter, the copy of your
letter to Senator Morgan and the newspaper clippings. -.

I am not among those Members of Congress who have
been criticizing the FBI and CIA. In my judgement
both agencies are vitally essential. Tt is coin-
cidental thet you included the editorial,"Is
America Gbing Mad" from U.S. News and World Re-
port. This editorial made such sense to me that
last week I placed a copy of it inthe Congrssional
Record along with my own comments of agreement.
Enclosed is a copy of my remarks for the Record
along with a copy of a news release which I mailed
to all news media in the Eleventh Congressional
District.

I know that Senator Morgan will read your letter
very carefully and will welcome the opportunity
it affords him to respond to you directly.

Sincerely

Roy A. Taylor
Member of Congress
RAT rao

Enclosure

MDR Io

TAINED
ALLINFORMATIONCON Wy)

EREIN ISUNCLA CHL
Hern sNGLASSY Sy hb

Lo eneenenet

NW 55149 DoclId:32989578 Page 9&8



e @
GORE

JESSE HELMS
North Carolina

UNITED STATES SENATE
Washington, D.C. 20510

January 30,1976

Mr. William H. Lawrence
314 Swiss Pine Lake Drive
Spruce Pine, North Carolina 28777

Dear Mr. Lawrences

Thank you for your letter of January 26 regard-
ing the unfair treatment being received by the F.B.I..
Rest assured, this is one Senator who has not been
fooled by all this nonsense. We have had experience
enough with so-called ad hoc committees which tend
toward sensationalizing of their subject matter, and
cater to a press hungry for leaks of sensitive inforn-
ation.

Of course, I'm sure the F,B,I, has made
mista,es—-who hasn't? What is important is ¢hat
these mistakes have been few and far between, and the
F.B.I. was and is the most honest and efficient law
enforcement agency in the world.

When the country is faced with e#itical problems
of inflation, people out of work, and the price of energy
going out of sight, Congress dows not need to be adis—
tracted from these important problems by a sideshow
run by left-wing columnists and commentators.

Thanks again for writing. Please continues to
share your thoughts with me.

Sincerely

Jesse Helms

JESSE HELMS: Jn

MDR Ib

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

SSE a [ane

pycLosuEs

be. We3BA-.

——WWWW55149  Docld:32989578 Page 99 _



* crnowar fom No. 10 7 5010-106
NAY 1962 EDITION
cai GBA GEN, REGS NO. 27 y

Assoc. Dir. a

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. N. P. Callahan
Mr. J. B. Adams
Mr. P. L. Mack
Mr. J. A. Mintz

TO : Mr. W. RL W. mall iit DATE: 1/27/76

BREE

1 - Mr. D. W. Moore
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
(FROM : T. W. Leavitt. we 1 - Mr. T. W. Leavitt
? 1 - Mr. J. G. Deegan Pare
: 1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar Spee. Inv, ——
SUBJECT: SENSTUDY '75 1 - Mr. F. A. Tansey \\ Timms
ee ae ii Telephon

At 6:10 p.m., 1/27/76, at the request of Executive ft |
Assistant to Deputy Associate Director (Investigative) Paul L. 1s Ave
Mack, Deputy Assistant Director Thomas W. Leavitt requested that Ny
we determine facts surrounding a United Press International eas
news release 1/27/76 indicating the Senate Select Committee (SSC
was conducting an investigation in San Diego concerning the
alleged FBI promoted warfare against blacks. Facts set forth ft
indicating additional SSC members are currently in San Diego

Fes erreurs to news reports are to interview SAC, San Diego dy
onald L. Maley. aN, iS lp
Intelligence Division Night Supervisor F. Anthony Tags
subsequently contacted SA Paul V. Daly, Office of Legal Cow ——

SA Seymor F, Phillips, Senstudy project; and, IS-l Section fhief .
Joseph G. Deegan. It was determined that two SSC investigftors, yy
io

Michael Madigan and Lester Seidel, were both in San Diego/ last,
week investigating information concerning the FBI and Secret “VX
Army Organization (SAO) involvement in specific activities in
the San Diego area. Previous FBIHQ clearance had been obtaine’
and "waiver of confidentiality agreement." authorizations were
approved for those two Committee members to speak to ewo current
Agents and two former Agents in the San Diego area concerning SAO
investigations. No one was aware of any current..Committee
investigators being in the San Diego area in connection with

jany other investigation involving the FBI.

: At 7:21 p.m., SAC Maley was telephonically contacted by
Night Supervisor Tansey and was apprised of the UPI dispatch

dated 1/27/76 at San Diego. Maley stated this was_a new
situation (pertaining to the Black Panther Party and.the-~-

US Organization), different from the er regarding the SAO
Wheréti two-SsScinvestT¢ NLéryiewed” two “current~: wo
“forier-FBI-agents Tast week. Maley stated the firsthe learned.

ofthis was an article in Monday night's newspaper followed -by..
a clarification inthe San Diego “Union” newspaper on Tuesday,

kak eax; REG-lOd 24 MELE 1 36L
Enclosu: en Dh be ca ;
. FAT:dsh a ae Me AMATIONCONTAINED CONBIREEMS tens pt]
(11) eats)
HEREINISUSGLACET IE, tA ae 5
pate Ul CHL in

:) ALGER 28r49%6 s50578 Page 100 :



Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
RE: SENSTUDY '75

Maley stated the article goes into some length that
Michael Madigan and Lester Seidel, both members of the
investigating staff of the SSC, were in San Diego conducting
investigation relative to the FBI and SAO in the past. The
article further states that another investigator from the SSC,
mamed Arthur Jefferson, is scheduled to arrive in San Diego
today (1/27/76) to begin a probe of FBI attempts to encourage
warfare in 1969 between rival black nationalist factions in
San Diego and Los Angeles. The article continues that the FBI
already has turned over to the Senate panel a "1200-page
document confirming that the FBI attempted to foster strife among
blacks throughout the nation." An afternoon meeting was
scheduled 1/27/76 between Arthur Jefferson and Leon Williams,
San Diego's first black City Councilman.

Maley stated the article in the "Union" newspaper did
not indicate he, Maley, was to be interviewed. He did locate
the Monday night article in the San Diego “Evening Tribune"
which indicated that Maley would be interviewed.

Maley stated that under no circumstances would he
submit to interview by SSC investigators without first
contacting Office of Legal Counsel and securing a waiver of
his confidentiality agreement. Maley further stated he had
earlier in the day forwarded a clipping to Inspector-Deputy
Assistant Director Homer A. Boynton, Jr., External Affairs
Division, concerning a press release which had been made by
Madigan and Seidel when they were in the San Diego area.

Maley expressed considerable concern that the investigators

for the SSC seem to spend a great deal of their time making
press releases (mostly unfavorable to the FBI) and very little
of their time interviewing or investigating the facts. Maley
stated that two articles, in Monday night's paper and in
Tuesday's paper, were indicative of the type of press releases
being made. He stated nobody has contacted him about interviews
but he has read their intentions in the paper.

NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page i01



Nw 55149

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
RE: SENSTUDY '75

Maley was advised to submit pertinent information to
FBIHQ by teletype and he reiterated he would nottalk to any
investigators without first securing specific approval of
Office of Legal Counsel.

ACTION:

For information. Copy of the UPI dispatch 1/27/76
attached, When San Diego teletype is received, it will be
analyzed and_any appropriate action taken.

weet
nan

di

DocId:32989578 Page 102


mv STIGAT

2 ATL
*, COUNCILMAN LatOH Wi

DIzGo UPI)
G CH

ie MIT
RILLA STYLE yARFARE
H.DIECO DURTUG THD LATE

TIGATORS HAD
Fol AD AT
2} CHARGE ¢

Cz, RIC
POLICE CH

THE, JEWS PAF

