# docid_32292693

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/20/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10209-10469

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 70-43649-55

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MCCABE, BERNARD T.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Document Information

DATE: 09/14/1966

'PAGES:

15

SUBJECTS :

MLE, BKG, ASSOC, SUSP, ROBBERY, ARMORED CAR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CAESTRICTIONS: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 45839

Docid: 32292693

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• FD-263 (Rov. 5-1-59)

=".

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

BOSTON

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

BOSTON

TITLE OF CASE

UNSUBS (4)

ROBBERY AT NETERANS ADMINISTRATION

HOSPITAL, 150 South Huntington

1/26/660ston,...

Massachusetts

DATE

9/14/66

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

7/26 - 9/2/66_

REPORT MADE BY

BERNARD T. McCABE

CHARACTER OF CASE

CGR

TYPED

1a

REFERENCE:

Bstel to Director, 1/26/66!1

Cleveland airtel to Boston, 8/24/66.

- P -

LEADS

159

ALL RECEIVING OFFICES

Will review MOs in recent ITSP and other related cases where

armored cars have been held up and robbed, to determine whether

any cases in the respective offices bear any similarity to the MO

in instant case.

gifted

NEW HAVEN

÷11

AT HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT

Will contact any Decal distributors listed on the list

furnished in referenced Cleveland airtel for any information they

may be able to

h which would be of assistance in identifying

Unsubs.

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGEN

CHARG

COPIES MAOR: I

Bureau/ 1443649)

2 - Albany (70-860)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

70-43649-

55

- Buffalo

- Miami (70-1317)

- Newark

15 SEP 15 1966

- New Haven

(70-474)

- New York

2

- Philadelphia

5 - Boston (70-1952)

Dissemina..on Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

jectUA

10-7-41

HAS

STAY.iN

Deleted Copy Sort

cresta

by Lotini da.u-

10/30/10

Per FOl-à juguest

62UC1 14 1966.

REC- 58

1ST-1U-

NW 45839 DocId: 32292693 Page 2

---

## Page 3

BS 70-1952

CHICOFSKY stated that he believes that JOHN KELLEY

was involved in the robbery of the VA Hospital and he said

this because CHICOFSKY claims that on several occasions in

the past KELLEY, who CHICOFSKY says believes the Post Office

has some kind of an apparatus on his 1966 gold Cadillac

which enables them to ascertain the whereabouts of this

car, has intentionally left his car in downtown Boston,

proceeded with the informant via the car borrowed from

"PRO"LERNER of from some other person, to Hyde Square where

they would walk over to a 1962 or 1963 Bushicorsky said

hardtop, light blue and cream in color.

that the car was a light blue top and light blue bottom, and

had a cream stripe;

that the driver of this car was 40 years

of' age;

5'7." to 5'8"; stocky build; approximately 160 lbs.;

very dark complected and appeared to be an Italian and

had a flat nose and black hair.

CHICOFSKY said that this individual would get

in to the back seat of the car and KELLEY would sit in the

passenger seat and he would drive on KELLEY's instructions

into the vicinity of the VA Hospital, and that this

individual would get out and walk towards the VA Hospital.

CHICOFSKY stated that on other occasions he would drop them

off one street car stop away from the VA Hospital, and they

would take the street car to the VA Hospital, and he would

be back in an hour and a half to pick them up. CHICOFSKY

advised that this was taking place during the

late morning

hours and that from conversation he knew that KELLEY was

looking over a score from the lobby of the VA Hospital.

Informant said he never heard this unknown person's

first name, but he got the impression that KELlEy was doing

this individual a favor by cutting him in on a score since

as he has

COVER PAGE

NW 45839

DocId: 32292693

Page 3

---

## Page 4

BS 70-1952

PCI said CLIFFORD is crazy and has a machine gun.

He would consider CLIFFORD as a possibility on the VA Hospital.

BS 960-C

Informant on 8/16/66 advised SA RAYMOND F. BALL and

SA JOHN F.. SWEENEY that he had heard some information around

7/23/66 that JOHN KELLEY and "PRO"LERNER and four other individuals

had a good score going for them.

The informant stated that he knew that KELLEY and

his mail robbery associates were strapped for funds.

Informant stated that during the recent wave of gangland

offered use of bullet proof vests and machine guns to members of

the group which was fighting the group headed by GEORGE McLAUGHLIN.

Informant advised that he heard that KELLEY could get access to

some former Army weapons and that the vests which he had indicated

were

The informant further advised that he had heard that

there were possibly six men involved in the holdup at the

VA Hospital.

The following informants were contacted on the dates

indicated with negative results:

Informant

Date Contacted

BS 959-PC

8/5/66

ALEXANDER CELESTE

BS 812-C-TE

8/10/66

8/8/66

FREDERICK FRANCIS

8/4/66

Agent

SA CARL J. EVENSEN

SA GEORGE W. WHALEN

SA JOHN F. KEHOE

SA DONALD A. BASSETT

BOUDREAU, aka Ricky

FRANKLIN J. FORTES

7/27/66

8/16/66

SA DONALD A. BASSETT

SA JOSEPH E. CONDON

- K -

COVER PAGE

OTHER 4

...

NW 45839 DocId: 32292693 Page 4

---

