JFK Assassination System.
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90073-10070
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —87-38828-5
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 04/10/1958
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS :
DAVE YARAS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/07/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1
Docld:32328366 Page 1


roy

ome ee

Office Mem_randum - UNITED STALES GOVERNMENT.

ami area. Ht stbtod
tassociates with thieves
- He also stated the

fe of his automobiles.
7

DANIEL SULLIVAM, Operating Manager of the i
Crime Commission of Greater Pani, advised SA PETSEER

that in December, 1957, Local 32 of the International
Brotherkood of Teamsters, Taxi Cab Drivers, Automotive

and Parking Lot Employees, was formed at 1205 Lincoln

Road, Miami Beach, for the purpowe of orgamizing the

“QnBureau ; @..
1-Chicago (Info)
1-New York (Info)

count 1° a 67 38829 $y

wv

Als a? apa 14 1958
- , —eisss- 5

Docld:32328366 Page 2 .


aad

Docld: 32328366

ma 87-8115 "

‘ Be also related pounik TARAS resides et
gS8i west Bey Barbour Drive, ppercment #2,
Teland, plorids- } 3

>

: ROD GOEF.t, special Agests Rational Board
of Fire pnderwriters, Mami, ody. sec OF april & 1358,
ef Pit pot pecenvec any sects irormation as

Bacpathy GAIBES, & gam ler and owner of Gaines
Construction Comnary, 1p 2M. ¢. 27th Avenue, we .
advises oF acril i, 195<, vnet YRAS aud his were
not trying tO urioni2e pi pie:e-
but kre pothie about bin.
pave SDICER, sea Gull Hotel, Wagt » &
gaxcler ana former owner of numerous garsline egtebli shmentsy
tated OF april 3, , be brew YAR an¢ JOB BASSEE VOPS
close friencc that their wives visit socially together :

roil YABRAS 10 & Legitimate

YARAS

and thst would bark Fro-
operation. ew mothing of ‘curreat
activities.
eel Sol reren 31, 1958 ana PCL Lirfrn Ie
PAUL m. BRUDAD » advised they could
__kurures a .
a & 0-85 :
; wo 8 28 - a 5
eee Sg HO tee tee ust Lr ee ee
4 4
ee paid
4, Ro” !

Page 3
