# docid-32261440

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/1/201

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER:

180-10106-10109

RECORD SERIES :

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

002701

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: BLAKEY, ROBERT

TO:

BELL, GRIFFIN

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/17/1977

1

FBI, FILES

TRAFFICANTE, SAM

ROSELLI, JOHN

GIANCANA, SAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: LETTER

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/18/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

66-2. Box 66.

v9.1

DocId: 32261440

Page

1

---

## Page 2

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART B. MC KINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIFO

CHARLES THONE, NEBR.

CHRISTOPHER I, BODD. CONN.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

(202) 225-4624

Ole documents

002701

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.5. House of Representatibes

*°9331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

october 17, 1977

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General

U.S. Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the Select Committee's investigation

into the circumstances surrounding the death of President

Kennedy, the Select Committee will periodically request of the

Department of Justice access to materials based on electronic

surveillance.

In order to protect the privacy of those subject to

surveillance, no material derived from them should be made

available in response to general requests.

A check of the

Electronic Surveillance Index should not be made unless spe-

cifically requested.

When such a check is specifically re-

quested, unless a superseding letter is forwarded to you, the

product of such a check should only be made available to my-

self or Ralph Salerno, the only individual connected with the

Committee currently authorized to examine

such materials.

The materials prepared in response to my letter of Oct-

ober 7, 1977, should be handled in accordance with this letter.

In addition, it would be appreciated if you could make

available to me the electronic surveillance logs and communi-

cations pertaining to the logs from field offices to the Seat

of Government during the period of time from January 1, 1963

to August 1, 1963 for the following:

Sam Giancana, Santos

Trafficante and John Roselli. This request supplements my

request of October 7, 1977.

Thank you.

Respectfully,

8 Notent Stakin

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB : DM

COPY TO: Dan Coulson

DocId:32261440 Page 2

---

