# docid-32304457

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10286-10087

HQ

100-30067-135

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

KEHE, WILBERT H.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 09/16/1960

PAGES: 12

SUBJECTS :

JOP, BKG, TRA, RES, EMP, SOVIET UNION ACT, REL, CP,

SECURITY INDEX

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IB; IC; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32304457

Page

---

## Page 2

%

Report Forni

FD 263 (5-12-55)

Reporting Office

SAN FRANCISCO

TITLE OF CASE

JOHN ORION PITIMAN

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION®

Office of Origin

SAN FRANCISCO

Date

SECRetive period

9/16/60

1/24-9/11/60

Report made by

WILBERT H. KEHE

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - C

Typed By:

jew

REFERENCE:

Report of SA WILBERT H. KEHE

dated 3/16/60, at San Francisco.

-p*-

ALE INCORVACION CONTAINED

MGRETN IS UNCLASSIFIED RACERS

WHERE SHOWN GIHURAISE.

Declassify ou: OA3&

(JFK

Approved

Copies made:

LettSF

Copy to..

date,

ADMINISTRATIVE

Stops have been placed with the Immigration

and Naturalization Service (INS) to be notified upon

subject's return to the United States.

Eight (8) copies of this report have been

furnished to the Bureau in view of the fact that the

Bureau may desire to furnish copies to interested Legats

In Europe because of

Europe.

various agencies in Germany regarding the possible travel

Special Agent

in Charre

- Bureau (100-30067) (RM)

Do not write in spaces below

100-30067-152

REC- 39

EX 109

17 SEP 19 1960

3 - San Francisco (100-1465)

it'l

14-100

A man

* NOV

i 1973 SECRET

SUBR

Patel KE

9/21/60

Property of FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

I U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1956 0. 385319

DocId: 32304457 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Report Form

FD-263 (5-12-55.)

Reporting Office

SAN FRANCISCO

TITLE OF CASE

JOHN ORION PITTMAN

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Office of Origin

SAN FRANCISCO

Date

9/16/60

Report made by

WILBERT H.

KCHE

CHARACTER OF CASE

Investigative Period

1/24-9/11/60

IS - C

SECRET

Typed By:

jew

Approved

Copies made:

REFERENCE:

ALE INTORNATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIZIED EXCEPY

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Report of SA WILBERT H. KEHE

dated 3/16/60, at San Prancisco.

10-24.94

Classified by SP8 Mec

Beclassify on: DADR/JFK

ADNENISTRATIVE

Stops have been placed with the Immigration

and Naturalization Service (INS) to be notified upon

subject's return to the United States.

Eight (8) copies of this report have been

furnished to the Bureau in view of the fact that the

Bureau may desire to furnish copies to interested legats

in Europe because of subject's possible travel throughout

Burope.

It is noted that the legat in Bonn has lalerted CS

various agencies in Germany regarding the possible travel

Special Agent

in Charge

Do not write in spaces below

8

- Bureau (100-30067) (RM)

3 - San Francisco (100-1465)

SECREE

Property of FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

# U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1956

• 885319

DocId: 32304457

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SF 100-1465

WHK; jew

of subject in Germany. Also, the Legat in London has

alerted British Security Service MI-5., Furthermore, the

Legat in Paris has been in touch with the DST regarding[s,

possible travel of the subject in France.

By letter dated 4/4/60, New York reported that

NY 694-S on 2/14/00, had advised that CesU officials nao

disclosed to the informant that they would like to see

PITTMAN remain in Moscow for two more years. These officials

noted that PITTMAN and his wife were studying Russian

with a very competent instructor.

that under no circumstance may there be further dissemination

of the foregoing information in order to protect NY 694-s,

a valuable informant.

By letter dated 5/24/60, the Chicago Office

reported that CG 5824-5* during 5/60 reported that ELIZABETH

GURIEY FLYNN had written a letter from the Soviet Union

which indicated that she had seen JOHN PITTMAN in that

i natcarea that the

country.

The Chicago Office instructed that this informa-

tion is not to be disseminated in order to afford maximum

security to a highly placed informant.

By memo dated 5/31/60, copy to San Francisco,

the New York Office reported that

NY 1869-S* had advised

HALOIS MOOREHEAD had commented that he had seen JOHN and

that

MARGARET PITTMAN while in the soviet Union.

LEAD

SAN FRANCISCO

AT SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA

Will continue

to follow the activities of the subject and remain alert

for his réturn to the San Francisco area.

INFORMANIS

Identity of Source

SE I-L,

NY 2031-S*

Location

SECRET

-B-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32304457 Page 4

---

