# docid-32292244-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10209-10020

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-336

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/13/1961

GAL, RES, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

351

---

## Page 2

FEVERAL BURGAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OCT 1 3 1961

TELEtIPE

301

"mont

Allahan

Mr. Conrade

Mr. DeLoac

Mr. Evenst

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room_

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy.

DEFERRED

10-13-68

6057 PM SM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-38821

FROM SAGE GiTCHED 193-3732

1P

GUS ALEX,

AKA

A ARO DAILY SUMMARY, PCI FRANK LA CROIX ADVISED HE MAS

RECEIVED

A NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS FROM TENANTS OF THE APARTMENT BUILDING

AT ELEVEN FIFTY NORTH LAKE SHORE DRIVE, CHICAGO, DURING THE PAST

WEEK EXPRESSING CONCERN REGARDING GUS ALEXOS TENANCY AT THAT ADDRESS.

HE SAID THESE COMPLAINTS WERE CAUSED BY A PICTURE STORY IN THE MAGAZINE

SECTION OF THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE ON SUNDAY, OCTO EIGHT LAST, DEPICTING

GRACIOUS LIVING ENJOYED BY CHICAGO QUOTE HOODLUMS UNQUOTE AND IT IN-

CLUDED A PHOTOGRAPH OF THE APARTMENT BUILDING AND STATED THAT ALEX

MAINTAINED A TENTH FLOOR SUITE AT THAT ADDRESS. POI SAID THAT BECAUSE

OF THE ABOVE COMPLAINTS AND THE RECENT PUBLICITY THE LEASE FOR

ALEXOS APARTMENT WILL NOT BE RENEWED UPON TERMINATION. BUREAU AGENTS

OBSERVED ALEX TOGETKER WITH HIS CHAUFFEUR BUTCH LADON AND EDDIE VOGEL

AT MIKE FISHOS RESTAURANT,

ONTARIO AND CHICAGO ON OCTO ELEVEN LASTO

ALEX ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

END AND ACK PLS

•116

92-3182-336

9058 PM OK FBI WA JA

1O OCT 16 1961

66 0CT 181961

---

