FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

‘FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE ‘OFFICE OF ORIGIN Ae INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
BUFFALO NEW YORK UL 27 1964 12/15/63-7/15/64
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY TYPED BY
‘LA COSA NOSTRA LEON F, ANDREWS, JR. (A) 2 jmb
BUFFALO DIVISION CHARACTER OF CASE
AR - CONSPIRACY
REFERENCES: Bureau airtel to New York dated 6/23/64, 7
-P-~
1
ENCLOSURES
TO BUREAU
ae Two (2) copies of letterhead memorandum showing
characterization of informants who furnished information as
set forth in this report.
TO NEW YORK _
Two (2) copies of letterhead memorandum showing
characterization of informants who furnished information as
set forth in this report, {
oe aa SPECIAL AGENT DONOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW
Copies mang: ~ 92 | di ) 7 Foo
“Dz Bureau aed) (pee) |e ; ras
: ~ Albany (92-535) (Info) 3 JUL &0 1964
2 - New York (92-2300) (Enc. 2) i it
2 - Buffalo (92-337) ee eee
| CopTEs DESTROYED
40 MAR 26 1y0d
Dissemination Record of Attached Report Notetions $s
a apt
Request Recd. ia
Date Fwd.
How Fwd.
By |

Docla:32576024 Page 1


BU 92-337

LEADS (CONT'D.

BUFFALO (CONT'D)
AT BUFFALO, NEW YORK (CONT'D)

BENEDETTO P, SPANO

Buffalo file 92-443

SAMUEL BONITO

Butfalo file 92-277

FRED S. MOGAVERO

ee file 92-281

VINCENT A, SCRO

ee file 92-197

JAMES V, LA DUCA

AR :

Buffalo file 92-58

CHARLES A, MONTANA

Saree file 92-128

SAMUEL G. RANGATORE, JR.

Buffalo file 92-274

2. Will continue efforts to develop live Top Echelon
Criminal Informants who can provide first-hand information

concerning the activities, organizational structure, and
influence of the "Magaddino Family."

INFORMANTS
Identity of Source Location
BU T-1,
BU 319-PC
-C~
COVER PAGE

(Nas Sones eT STEER

Docld:32576024 Page 2


BU 92-337

2.

CO
CD

CHARLES J, CIPOLLA,
Guelph, Ontario,
Canada

CIPOLLA has been associated in gambling activities
and narcotics smuggling activities between Canada
and the United States, CIPOLLA, known under FBI
Number 1555922, was arrested July 31, 1963, by
the Royal Canadian Mounted Police on narcotics
charges. Information was furnished by the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police that CIPOLLA had a tie
with the underworld in the United States, They
identified an associate known as MICHAEL TASCARELLA,
also known as "Mike Torch," of Buffalo, New York,
who was arrested’ by the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police on June 5, 1962, near Hamilton, Ontario,
Canada, with one JOSEPH ANGELLO of Buffalo. They
were both charged with violation of the Canadian
Narcotics Act.

HARRY BORDONARO,
an Attorney in
Ontario, Canada

BORDONARO has represented Canadian hoodlums
engaged in narcotics traffic in the past and
was observed by Agents of the Federal Bureau

of Investigation in Buffalo, New York, allegedly
to pick up and return ALBERT AGUECI to Canada.

LOUIS INNAZELLA,
Niagara Falls, Ontario,
Canada

INNAZELLA and his brothers operate the Hill Top
Motel in Ontario, Canada, DOMINICK D'AGOSTINO
testified in United States District Court shortly
after the Apalachin meeting that his last place
of employment was the Hill Top Motel in Canada.
INNAZELLA was recently contacted by telephone

by someone calling from the telephone of SALVATORE
PIBRI, He has also been cited as being a
"Wagaddino Man" in the operations of a gambling
establishment near Fort Erie, Ontario, Canada,

-14-

Docld:32576024 Page 3



BU 92-337

unidentified man not to testify to knowing MAGADDINO. MAGADDINO
retorted that they only ask about him. because of JOHNNY POPS
(JOHN PAPALIA), and about another man whom BU T-2 believed to
be ALBERT AGUECI.

MAGADDINO then began to discourse as to how this
unidentified man could testify by claiming inability to
.rpemember and by claiming he had met many people. He also
suggested that the man could admit knowing MAGADDINO but
only casually and nothing of a derogatory nature,

.,. Later when MAGADDINO commented that he was proud
of the "family" he had raised, RANDACCIO asked MAGADDINO
in a facetious manner which "family" he was talking about. |
MAGADDINO expressed disapproval of RANDACCIO's comment,
whereupon RANDACCIO quickly added that MAGADDINO had done a
good job with "both families,"

On June 2, 1964, information was received from the
Royal Canadian Mounted Police that GUISEPPE TARANTULA is the
actual subscriber to Toronto telephone number RO9-2512. He
was born in Castellamara del Golfo, Sicily. His family and
relatives included the following persons, all of whom reside
at 64 Cordella Street in Toronto: :

Wife MARIA TARANTULA,
nee Como,
born April 10, 1936,
Castellamara del Golfo,
Sicily

Daughters FRANCESCA TARANTULA,
: born December 17, 1959,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada;
LEONARDA TARANTULA i
porn March 14, 1958, : |
Toronto, Ontario, Canada |

Mother-in-Law FRANCESCA COMO,
nee Cosentino,
7 born June 26, 1908,
Castellamara del Golfo,
Sicily

Sister-in-Law ANNA BUCCELLATO,
nee Como,
born May 17, 1935,
Castellamara del Golfo,
- $telly
1Q-

Docld:32576024 Page 4


BU 92-337

Toronto:

Husband of
Sister-in-Law

Son of
Sister-in-Law

Brother-in-Law

GUISEPPE BUCCELLATO,
porn July 26, 1936,
Castellamara del Golfo,

Sicily

SALVATORE BUCCELLATO,

born 1961,

Toronto, Ontario, Canada

LUCIANO COMO,

born June 26, 1938,
Castellamara del Golfo,

Sicily

On May 26, 1964, information was received by the
Royal Canadian Mounted Police in Toronto that the following
long distance telephone calls had been charged to the

telephone number of GUISEPPE TARANTULA, 64 Cordella Avenue,

May 5, 20, 22
ah

May 4 and 5,

1964

May 23, 1964

will have

“Investigation on 3

Brooklyn, New York

Brooklyn, New York

Brooklyn, New York

UL 1-8459
aL 3-8177

HI 3+4820

It was also noted that a long distance call had been
made to a Mrs, MARIA LONGO at 3824 15th Street, Brooklyn, New
York, The call was made on April 11, 1964,

Telephone number UL 1-8459, Brooklyn, New York,
is listed to FRANCES LIGOTTI, nee Ciaravino, of 1537 56th
Street, Brooklyn,

Mrs. LIGOTTI advised that her uncle, NINO CRUCIATA,
had entered the United States from Castellamara del Golfo,
Sicily, as a tourist in approximately November 1963, but his
return to Sicily was scheduled for late June or early July:
1964. She said she does not, know where he is living but she

him con

+ Agents of the Federal Bureau of
ce 2h, 1964,

On June 24, 1964, ANTONINO CRUCIATA was interviewed
and he exhibited an Italian passport indicating he arrived in

-20-

Docld:32576024 Page 5
