# docid-32309414

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10298-10201

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-339

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

08/01/1961

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, TRA, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

01/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

• DocId: 32309111

Page 1

261

---

## Page 2

4-9160

1. 6-2-61)

DECODED

COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans.

Malone -

Rosen.

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy .

Radio

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINE&X

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Teletype

DATE 6-6.84

_BYSP5RJG/

URGENT

8-1-51 9:44 PM JFA

TO DIRECTORAAND SAOS, CHICAGO AND BALTIMORE

FROM SAC, NEW YORK 012350

in t

SAMUEL'M.

GIANCANA, AKA, ARO RE MYAIRTEL TO BUREAU JULY 27,

1961. PCI RANDY BURKE,

CHAUFFEUR FOR MC GUIRE SISTERS,

ADVISED PHYLLIS REQUESTED HIM TO DRIVE HER TO OWINGS MILLS,

MARYLAND, ON AUGUST 2, 1961. MO GUIRE WILL STAY IN A MOTEL.

SHE WILL TRAVEL IN HER 1961 WHITE CADILLAC CONVERTIBLE

WITH BLACK TOP, NEVADA LICENSE NUMBER C-63414. POI DOES NOT

KNOW PURPOSE OF HER TRIP OR LENGTH OF PROPOSED VISIT BUT OF

OPINION SHE WILL RETURN TO NYC BEFORE SHE TRAVELS TO VALLEY

FORGE, PENNSYLVANIA, ON SUNDAY NEXT. MC• GUIRE HAS ONE WEEK

ENGAGEMENT AT A SHAKESPEARE OPEN AIR THEATRE AT VALLEY FORGE.

PCI SAID HE WILL OBTAIN NAME OF MOTEL WHERE SHE WILL STAY

IN OWINGS MILLS. HE EXPECTS TO DEPART NYC ABOUT 5 PM AND

ARRIVE OWINGS MILLS 5 HOURS LATER. NYO DOES NOT PLAN ANY

SURVEILLANCE TO OWINGS MILLS. BALTIMORE REQUESTED TO CONSIDER

MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE COVERAGE AT MOTEL WHEN NAME IS OBTAINED.

POL IN DAILY CONTACT WITH MC GUIRE SINCE JULY 214, 1961 BUT HAS

NOT SEEN SUBJECT. DOES NOT THINK SUBJECT IN NYC AT PRESENT.

MC GUIRE ASKED PCI IF HER TRUNK WAS BIG ENOUGH TO TAKE A LOT

OF "THINGS" TO OWINGS MILLS BUT DID NOT SPECIFY. FOR INFO

BALTIMORE MO GUIRE IS GIRL FRIEND OF SUBJECT WHO MAY MEET

MC GUIRE IN DWINGS MILLS. SUBJECT IS A TOP HOODLUM OF COGO

AND CURRENTLY UNDER INTENSIFIED INVESTIGATION. CHICAGO WILL

ADVISE BALTIMORE IF SUBJECT CURRENTLY IN CHICAGO AND IF HE

DEPARTS AUGUST 2 NEXT. PHILADELPHIA WILL ALSO CONSIDER

MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE COVERAGE WHEN

NOTIFIED WHERE MC GUIRE

WILL STAY IN VALLEY FORGE.

COPY MAILED TO NEWARK, AND PHILADELPHIA.

SUBJECT SHOULD BE

CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

- 137

TELETYREG 91

92-038871 a3

CODING UNIT

58 AUG 8

28 AUG B

Ij the intelligence contained in the above message is to

be disseminated outside the Bureau,

ell, i is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

• DocId: 32309414

Page 2

---

