# docid-32567997

## Page 1

FD-31 (ReT: 12-13-56)

FBI

Transmit the following in:

CONFIDENTIA 6/62

AIRTEL

Via

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr.-

Mr. Callahan*

Mr. Conrad.-

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. evan

Mr.

Malone

Mr

Rosen

Mr.

Dativan

Mr.

Me. Trotter.

Tele. room

Mr. Ingram.

Miss Gandy.

+ 801GE NI

2 к3.

MALA

REASON

DATI

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, WEO

Classified

Declassity on:

BADE JFK

LOUIS HENRY

JONES

Doe

IS

_ CUBA

(Bufile 105-98177)

(WFOfile 105-42974) (RUC)

LENNA SCHWEITZER JONES

IS - CUBA

(Bufile 105-98176)

(WFOfile 105-42975)

3/4497eo By 5668-52

(00:DE)

DECLASSIFY ON: 26X

57K

For the information of CI, LOUIS HENRY JONES

and hiswife, LENNA SCHWEITZER JONES reportedly departed

from Mexico

for Cuba on 5/1/61,

Investigation reveals

their passports were not valldated by the U.S. Department!

of State for such travel.

It would assist in this

investigation if their

actual presence in Cuba could be

further confirmed.

In regard to the above, it is noted that on

11/6/61, WF 1262-S*

who has furnished reliable intormation

in the past,

learned that the Cuban Ministry of Foreign

Relations had requested the Embassy of Czechoovakia in

Washington, D.C,, to advise one M.

BRILL, 1158 Norris Prive,

Columbus 24, Ohio, of the death of her daughter, les

REC II: 105-961725

Bureau

Cincinnati (Ro)

2

- Detroit

(105-5317)

(105-6316)

NOV 16 1961

2 - WFO

JES: skh

(10)

ALL IRFORMATION CONTAINED

10010

AIRTEL

C. C. Wick

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

SECRET

IDENTIAM

Per -

DocId:32567997

Page 1

UNRECORDED

COPY FILED IN

105=

9817/60

---

## Page 2

SECRET

WFO 105-49274

LILLIAN I CLOTT. In connection with the death of CLOTT;

the informant advised that the Ministry of Foreign

Relations had advised that the death occurred on 10/31/61,

at the home of LOIS JONES and LENNA SCHSITLER in Havana®

The killing was motivated by marital difficulties and

the body is being held for the family.

In regard to BrilL,

the Cuban Ministes of Foreign Relations impljed authorization

to the Embassy of Czechoslovakia for issuance of a visa to

BRILL in the event she wished to travel to Cuba in connection

with her daughter's death

On 2/26/53, EMMA ROBINSON, former WE 760-S

(deceased, protection still deemed desirable), reliable

in the past, advised that LILLIAN LEONA CLOTT was

a

member of the

that tine. Mu ommunist Party in Hashington, D.C., at-

A similarity is noted between the names of

captioned subjects and the names of LOIS JONaS and LENNA

SCHEITLER at whose: home CLOTT was killed.

It is entirely

possible that the names furnished by the

to the subject's of instant investigation.

a mant refer

LEAD

CINCINNATI DIVISION

AT COLUMBUS, OHIO

UACB Is requested to contact M. BRILL, 1158 Norris

Drive, Columbus, Ohio, and through information she has

received relative to the death of her daughter attempt

to verify residence of captioned subjects in Cuba. It

should be bornein mind that BRILL may also be in possession

of information relative to the activities of the subjects

in Cuba:

Results of interview with BRILL should be

furnished to DE for the assistance of that office

S(u)

In the event information originating with we 1262-51S

is utilized in a form suitable

for dissemination, the infor

mation should be properly paraphrased and given the classifica

tion of "Confidential" (inasmuch as it reflects our investigativelu

interest in a' diplomatic establishment of a foreign power and

because the information reported could reasonably result

in identifiation of a confidential Informant of continuing

value and compromise his future effectireness. theral

DocId: 32567997 Page 2

---

