# docid-32297444

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10219-10220

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-2914-281

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: FORSYTH, THOMAS G. III

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/14/1962

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS:

GM, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, ARREST, EMPLOYEES, RAID,

TRA, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

DocId: 32297444

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PG 92-236

ADMINISTRATIVE

During the period of this report, close liaison has been

maintained with Special Agents of the Intelligence Division,

IRS, Pittsburgh, who are conducting an investigation

concerning subject.

The Special Agent

who

observed MANNARINO's residence in

Surfside, Fla.

on 9/25/62 was SA C. GRAHAM HURST.

INFORMANTS

The I symbols utilized. in this report. will be the same,

where applicable,

as those used

in reports

back to, and

including, that of 7/28/61:

PG T-2 is PG 612-C

PG I-3 1S PG 615-C

PG T-32 is PG 640-CTE

PG

T - 35

is PCI GENE HOWARD MC CUTCHEON

PG T-30

is PCI JAMES W. BURGART

PG T-39

is

PG 657-CTE

PG T-45 is PG 658-0.

PG I-48 is PG 582-C

-B*-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32297444

Page

---

## Page 3

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

¿ FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

November 14, 1962

GABRIEL MANNARINO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Reference is made to report of Special Agent Thomas G.

Forsyth, III, Pittsburgh, September 20, 1962.

There follows a brief characterization of informants used

in referenced report:

PG T-2 is an individual who has had many years activity in

racketeering and prostitution in the New Kensington, Pa., area.

PG T-3 is a professional man whose services have on occasion,

been used by members of the Mannarino organization and who

frequents Mannarino controlled gambling and after-hours

establishments.

PG T-32 is a business man in Mercer County, Pa., who has had

a lifetime association with gamblers and racketeers.

PG T-35 is an individual who has worked in numbers rackets

set-ups in Westmoreland County and Allegheny County, both

Pennsylvania.

PG T-38 is an individual who has been connected with gambling

activities in the New Kensington, Pa., area for almost fifteen

years.

PG I-39 is a Pittsburgh, Pa.,gambler and club operator.

PG I-45 is a numbers racket employee in the North Side section

of Pittsburgh, Pa.

PG T-48 is a Pittsburgh, Pa., businessman who nas naa many

years of association with gamblers and racketeers in Western

Pennsylvania.

DocId: 32297444

Page 3

---

