COMMENTS :

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

JFK Assassination System Date:
Identification Form

6/1/2015

Agency Information

FBI
124-10199-10291

HQ

15-60061-42

Document Information

FBI
SLOAN, RICHARD L.
DIRECTOR, FBI

08/15/1968
16

GMC, ASSOC, THEFT, FGJ, INDICTMENTS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

02/27/1998

INDEFINITE

\
| vol
| Docla:32288515 Page 1



Docld:32288515 Page 2

DL 15-6383

(Title continued) .

CHARLES EDWARD FLETCHER;

JOE HUNTER HARRINGTON;

BILLY TEE DYER;

JOHN THOMAS BRIGHAM;

WILLIAM ROGER CRAWFORD;

JOHN R. CROSS;

MICHAEL JAY HUMAN, aka. Michael J. Human;
JAMES DANIEL SANDERS, aka. James D. Sanders;
DAVID EARL STOUT;

UNSUBS.

(Leads at Dallas, Texas, continued)

A. RICHARD WITKOWSKI, who purchased three television

~ sets from JOHN THOMAS BRIGHAM;

. RAY SULLIVAN, who purchased one television from DAVID
EARL STOUT; :

BOB HANCOCK, who received one television set from
RICHARD WITKOWSKI;

BILL WARE, who purchased television set from DONALD
EUGENE McGHEE;

F, G, SHANKLES, who purchased television sets from
CHARLES THOMAS SCRIBNER, returned one of the Dallas
PD and stated that the second was stolen from his

ia home,

ao ao

(2) Will interview DON ELDON SMITH, Dallas PD No. 47183,
presently’on bond from Dallas County SO. SMITH stated to

Detective HOMER BURRIS, Dallas PD, that he accompanied BILLY ELWOOD
SPEER to Dallas on two occasions when SPEER purchased approximately
20 televisions from instant theft. SMITH further stated that he
also is aware that SPEER or McGANN sold approximately 20 televisions
to RICHARD PAYNE, part owner of Belknap Motors, located in Fort
Worth, Texas.

(3) Will locate and interview JEFF CALVIN SZMMS, a Dallas
poor hustler, Dallas PD No. 49549, who is reported by DL 137-2240
(a PCI) as the individual who assisted GEORGE ALBERT McGANN haul
several truck loads of televisions to Fort Worth, Texas.

- Be
COVER PAGE



DL 15-6383

AT FORT WORTH TEXAS: Will locate and interview TOMMY
MORMON, address unknown, who Iives near and is well known at the
Surf Side Six Motel and Lounge, regarding his knowledge of four
truck loads of televisions from instant theft being stored in
his garage by McGANN. ; f

AT TYLER, TEXAS: Will follow and report foe
action on the following individuals presently under indictment in
EDT; :

JOHN THOMAS BRIGHAM

WILLIAM ROGER CRAWFORD

JOHN R. CROSS :

DAVID EARL STOUT : .
JAMES D, SANDERS

MICHAEL J, HUMAN

ADMINISTRATIVE

On 7/11/68, NORMA GEE ‘STEVENS, DL 137- 2240,. reported to
SA RICHARD L, SLOAN that through her working relationship with
PAT HALLMAN, wife of subject HAROLD LESTER HALLMAN, she has learned
that PAT HALLMAN' s sister SUE was at one time in possession of one
of the television sets from instant theft, and that Mrs. JACK
ROWE, mother of subject HAROLD LESTER HALLMAN was: also in possession
of one television from instant theft.

STEVENS further advised that CLAUDE E. BRADSHAW at one
time had one television in his home and one television at the
apartment of his girl friend TRUDY (LNU), from instant theft.

STEVENS further stated that she was in the home of WAYNE
FRANKLIN and observed one of the televisions from instant theft,
and later learned from BILLY TEE DYER that FRANKLIN had purchased
four televisions from DYER. Of these four televisions, one went to
FRANKLIN's home, one to his son, name unknown, living in Dallas,
Texas, and the disposition of the other two sets is unknown to her.

: STEVENS further advised that (FNU) SIMMS, Wickname {
“BIGG-IN", assisted «SCRIBNER and HALLMAN deliver Several truck
loads of televisions. to Fort Worth.

STEVENS further advised that she had been contacted

“ telephonically by FRANK CATON, Attorney for BILLY TEE DYER, who

asked if STEVENS would marry DYER so that she would not have to
testify against DYER in Federal Court.

-D-
COVER PAGE™

1
|
|

| Docra:32288515 Page 3


DL 15-6383

to depart 8/15/68.

|| Docla:32288515 Page 4

“SEEVENS provided the above information on a confidential
basis, and asked that her name and information be protected.

All leads in instant case have been specifically enumerated
due to. the fact case Agent is under official transfer and scheduled

As a result of the magnitude of this case,

the submission of a report within 5 days of taking into custody of
recently indicted subjects was not possible.

- E*
COVER PAGE

