# docid-32292498-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10209-10274

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-33-355

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/15/1962

2

CIP, GAMBLING, CASINO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

2

---

## Page 2

FD:36. (ger. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

11/15/62

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-33)

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (92-50)

(P)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

CRIMINAL INDICTMENT #28247

US VS. LASSOFF, EDLA

Trial on this case is expected to begin in

New Orleans on November 19, 1962. At the present time

there are several legal motions pending on bebalf of

the defendants challenging the petty jury.

Judge

rERbER N• CHALSTENBERRY iS expected to hear arguments

on these motions on November 17, 1962 and then will

proceed with the trial. The trial is expected to last

approximately 30 days.

CARLOS MARCELLO, aka:

Information has been received from PCI JOSEPH

HEGEMAN that the Beverly Club will reopen Thanksgiving

night and will run for a period of

approximately four or

live days and then close.

It will reopen again after

Christmas and run through the New Year and then close until

Mardi Gras time.

The Beverly Club has been a palatiäl first

3-Bureau

2 New Orleans

RLK/dmt

(5)

REC- 53

62-9-33-355

E1.8 NOV 16 1962

5

2.79

Special Agent in Charge

_ Sent

- M

Per.

---

