JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10285-10219
RECORD SERIES: “HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: SEE TITLE
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC,MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE: [Restricted]
DATE: 11/12/1968
PAGES: 6
SUBJECTS : :
MR, TRA, ASSOC, REL, RES, EMP, IMPRISONED, CUBA, ACA,
US, RCK
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS : ‘ Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/12/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

v9.1
Docld:32304207 Page 1


I)

sed sd
CIA HAS NO OBJECT!

Cc
D
Ri

é
s
3

“6
TOs.
ORC.

wew +o wes
4
on

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

ay

Ser0-t08-0t

& meeting was to become useful to the Cuban cause. GARCIA

OPTIONAL FORM No. 19 I* ae

Sear eee EDITIG

coagtinn Ga Be) torn canine
. =

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

Oe.
DIRECTOR, FBI (134-18087) ‘ DATE:

(Hf sac, wranr (13441565) (P)

wo @ 7]
JOSE SANTIAGO APARICIO GARCIA VALDEZ
PSI (UD) - CUBA

Re Miami letter to Bureau, 10-15-68,
Bureau letter to Miami, 11-5-68,

DECLASSIF

A. A check of the field office files reflects :
that CIA, by letter dated 6-18-61, advised that a meeting :
was heid by six Cuban exiles, and the purpose of their

was one of those who attended the meeting. Qf &)(w)

Bureau files contain INS, Miami, information
sheet dated 4-9-60, which discloses the following informa
"5 tion: Subject was an automobile mechanic for Batista
4 Police Force in Havana in 1953. From 1954 to 1958, subject
was Captain of the yacht "Pal", which was owned by Colonel
= VICTOR MANUEL DUENOS ROBERT, who was imprisoned in 1960.

* on 10-1-59, subject was arrested and charged with hiding

2 counterrevolutionaries, spent 40 days in jail, was released
on bond, and was in partial hiding since his release.
Subject was then wanted in Cuba by CASTRO forces for hiding
counterrevolutionaries. Subject arrived in the United
States on 4-18-60, at Key Largo, Florida, via boat together .
with three other Cubans, two of whom were also escapees.; f {

By report dated 6-2-64, CIA advised that on
5-26-64, GARCIA said that a JURE mission was delayed, and
furnished information concerning a boat named "True" 7
23'-26' motorboat, blue, moored in the Miami River. u)

By letter dated 6-3-64, U. S. ides oms advised

Cc tal (Sigs ae 3 - LU Lib

i
i

Miami

RJD/al wat EBIHQ by, |
3 for pevie : |
@) aed We Nov 18,/968 i

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the-Payroll Savings Elan

Docld:32304207 Page 2


MM eee Seoifn

they had received an anonymous call saying that
explosives were stored at the house of GARCIA, 400

N. W. South River Drive, Miami, and as a consequence,
a consent search was conducted and no explosives were
found. It was noted the residence did contain
considerable food, which was stored there for JURE.

's, Customs, by letter 6-8-64, “advised that

MANO) REY, head of JURE, arrived in the United States
aboard Pan Américan Yways Flight 408, with six others,
including GARCIA, after they left Miami Beach, Florida,
on 5-24-64, on an unsuccessful attempt to infiltrate —
Cuba,
Ree eer eee a

The Department of State, by letter dated 11-30-64,
advised that GARCIA had contacted U. S. Customs concerning
a re-entry permit to go to the Dominican Republic (DR). He
planned to deliver a boat to the DR and stay there two
months to train a boat crew.

On 11-7-64, U. S. Customs checked GARCIA prior to
his leaving for Nassau on the boat. The boat contained no
articles of war.

On 11-10-64, GARCIA and the boat were in a Nassau
shipyard, where the boat was undergoing repairs. Nassau
authorities inspected the boat and found no arms or
ammunition, but arrested GARCIA as a prohibited immigrant,
fined him, and deported him.

A CIA report, dated 10-4-64, stated that on
9-28-64, CARL ZARRAGAAMART INEZ, who recently resigned
from JURE, offered GARCIA’$100.00 to take a boat from
Miami to Javernier and embark some persons on a raid to
Cuba. X u

> S. Customs advised that the boat was taken to

Tavernier, but engine trouble and bad weather conditions
prevented its departure for Cuba.

Docld: 32304207

Page 3


MM 134-1565

SECRET

By letter dated 11-7-64, the Bureau was
advised that GARCIA at that time was of operational
interest to CIA. ({) u) !

By letter dated 10-26-64, CIA advised GARCIA
was of operational interest to that agency u)

CIA, Miami, on 11-12-68, advised GARCIA is
not of operational interest and was discontinued
because the group to which he belonged was ee CE

. Discreet canvass of logical informants
reflected the following:

MM 635-S advised that GARCIA was previously t
of operational interest to CIA and was involved i
operations involving boats. Informant said he knéw
of no derogatory information concerning GARCTA (92) ()

MM 639-S advised he knew GARCIA and considered
him a dedicated anti-CASTRO Cuban exile who has been
involved with other exiles in boat operations against
Cuba. Informant said in one/ instance/in 1966, GARCIA Oke
tried to obtain boats for invasion of Haiti, then ree
being sponsored by ROLAN! SF ERR: JAS, former Cuban De
Senator, who on &1-1-67, was arrested by U.S. ero ieee

CARLOS ZARRAGA MARTINEZ, Key Source. - Cuban,
advised that GARCIA is well known among anti-CASTRO .
activists in the Miami area, was formerly a yacht
captain in Cuba and has participated in Cuban exile
Naval operations against Cuba,

The above sources advised they know of no
derogatory information concerning GARCIA.

Cc. U. 8S. Customs, Miami, advised that GARCIA
is not of operational interest to that agency but they
have contacted him in the past and considered him well
informed, honest, truthful, and a person well connected
with Cuban activists in Miami, U. S. Customs said that
agency considered GARCIA to be in an excellent position

to furnish information.
%
3. SeKReT

Ve

DoclId:32304207 Page 4


MM 134-1565 f ,
SEN

Customs explained that GARCIA, being a
qualified boat captain, is especially well connected
with Cuban fishermen in Miami and is especially
knowledgeable concerning these boats, the identities
of would-be raiding boats and the locations from where
the different boats operate. Customs said that GARCIA
is presently unemployed and in a bad economic situation.

D. Local credit checks were negative.

@ The Dade County Municipal Court reflected. that t
JOSE GARCIA, 126 S. W. 18th Avenue, Apartment 10, Miami, |
white male, born 5-23-30, Cuba, is a fisherman and on
10-18-62, was cited for operating a motorboat or vessel
without proper Florida registration. :

This citation was dismissed on 10-23-62,

FD-165 and FD-9 have been submitted to the
Bureau. i

The following is the identification record
of GARCIA, dated 10-14-68, under FBI #486 329 D:

contributor 0 ame an rrested or
Fingerprints Number Received Charge Disposition
USINS Miami Fla Jose Santiago 4-18-60 Dep Proc
Aparicio
Garcia-Valdes *
#CPI(MIP)
Dept of Pub Jose Santiago 4-19-60 vio of imm laws
Safety pearciaWalder , :
Miami Fla “#60=4868- 41925
USINS Miami Fla Jose S. A. 10-15-61 vio of Imm Laws
‘aldes

Docld:32304207 Page 5


MM 134-1565

BEC ;

E. GARCIA advised that he has never been
in the U. S. Armed Forces,

F, Because of GARCIA's age, he is not
required to register with the Selective Service System.

G. Sources contacted and GARCIA, himself,
advised he has no marital difficulties.

H. There are no known special problems which
may limit the scope of the initial investigation.

On 10-2-68, INS, Miami, records -reflected the
following information:

JOSE SANTIAGO APARICIO GARCIA VALDEZ arrived
in the United States on 4-18-60. He was an automobile
mechanic until 1953 in Cuba, and from 1954 to 1958,
was a yacht captain aboard "Pal".

On 10-1-64, he requested a re-entry permit
from INS to deliver the boat "Three Seas" to the
Dominican Republic, and planned to leave on this trip
on 10-23-64,

on | 2-10-66, a Cuban refugee, MARIA LUISA BRESO,
in a signed statement, said she asked GARCIA to go to
Nassau and bring her sister to Miami, and GARCIA did. L ‘,

i
i
‘
1
1
{

B shsaand
In a signed statement, CELIWBRESO, horn 9-21- 21; |
in Cuba, advised she entered the United States on 2-11- ox :

without inspection, She said she was picked up. in Nassau
by GARCIA, who took her in a boat to Miami, where she FLA
entered illegally and took a taxi to the hone. of her sister>——

BRESO said she paid GARCIA no money. for bringing
her into the United States. a

INS records do not reflect any action was taken
against GARCIA.

‘Sipe

Docld:32304207 Page 6


=

ns c

MM 134-1565 ISEQRET

INS records reflectx CIA, was born 5-23-30,
at Caibarien, Las Villas, Cuba. "His parents were not
listed (indicating their jtlentity is unknown). He was
married toMER EDESHPAZ., nd had three children, JOSE
MODESTO, born 1-12-60; WILLIAM B., born 8-1-62, and
YiRgE born 7-25-64. “He had Social Security No.
=10-8371, and FBI No. 486 329[D. His address Coben,
was Viste as 7280 South Wat 5 BS iami. He

applied for permanent residency on 67: 0
Li Bossee Ko authority is requested Aesiccata

captioned individual as a Bureau-approved potential
security informant and to proceed with his development.

a
"SECRET:

Docld:32304207 Page 7
