# docid-32309072

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10297-10199

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-379

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/18/1961

1

SGI, ASSOC, LTR, DEATH, ACTION JACKSON

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

01/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32309072

Page 1

488

---

## Page 2

4-41 (Rev. 6-2-61)

DECODED COPY

Radio

xx Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan -

Conrad®

DeLoach

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy

DEFERRED 8-18-61

TO gIRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO 180646

5-27 AM TAEL INFORRATION CONTANES TO 117

DATE 6-681 SES

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA, AR.

DAILY SUMMARY. LETTER RECEIVED

CHICAGO OFFICE AUGUST 15 LAST FROM ANOMYMOUS SOURCE ATTRIBUTES

RECENT GANGLAND STYLE DEATH OF WILLIAM "ACTION" JACKSON, FORMER

POI OF CHICAGO OFFICE, AND KNOWN. COLLECTOR FOR HOODLUM "JUICE"

MEN, TO SUBJECT AND ASSOGIATES SAM BATTAGLIA, "MILWAUKEE PHILL"

ALDERISIO, WILLIE "POTATOES" DADDANO AND JON MATTASSA, BODY

GUARD FOR SUBJECT. LETTER FURNISHED NAME AND ADORESS OF

RENEE CONWAY, DESCRIBED AS GIRL FIREND OF NICKY VALLO, CHICAGO

HOODLUM, WHO WOULD "TALK" IF INTERVIEWED AND UNDER IMPRESSION

SHE WAS IN A "TIGHT SPOT." CONWAY DESCRIBED AS LIVING LIFE

OF LUXURY UNDER SPONSORSHIP OF VALLO, AND HAVING NO OTHER

VISIBLE MEANS OF SUPPORT. LETTER STATES THAT IF JOHN MATTASSA

AND NICKY VALLO INTERVIEWED AND FORCED TO TALK THEY COULD

FURNISHED THE ANSWERS INVOLVING THE DEATH OF "ACTION" JACKSON.

CHICAGO WILL INTERVIEW CONWAY AND MATTASSA IN VIEW OF ABOVE

INFO.

SUBJECT OBSERVED ENTERING ARMORY LOUNGE, CHICAGO, TODAY.

TODAY. (

ACTIVITIES OBTAINED FROM CG 6486-C* RELATIVE TO SUBJECTS VISITS

AND CONTACTS AT ARMORY LOUNGE BEING FOLLOWED CLOSELY, AND

RESULTS TO BE SUBMITTED TO BUREAU.

GIANCANA ARMED AND

DANGEROUS.

REC-7

RECEIVED:

6:38 AM TELETYPE

6:39

AM CODING

UNIT:

813 00

53171-329

BMP

— WRICE

Liminal bittere

RS AUG 21 1961

SEE WIT

AUG

85

156%

6260G53 50 T9942

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32309072 Page 2

---

