# docid-32290042

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10202-10318

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-759

Document Information

• ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

COOK, ROBERT A.

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/18/1963

PAGES:

31

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS

v9.1

DocId: 32290042

253

Page 1•

---

## Page 2

CG 92-373

LEAD

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO

ILLINOIS.

Will continue to conduct

and report investigation concerning the background and

activities of GUS ALEX, in accordance with Bureau letter

to New York dated November 27, 1957, entitled "TOP HOODLUM

PROGRAM; AR".

ADMINISTRATI VE

This report has been prepared in compliance with

Bureau's instructins that all information which has been

received from investigative sources CG 6502-C*, CG 6568-C*,

and CG 6576-C* be paraphrased and set out in the body of

this report rather than in the cover pages.

INFORMANTS

Informant

Date Contacted

Contacting Agent

CG T-1

CG 6502-C*

CG T-2

PCI FRANK LA CROIX

CG T-3

CG 6568-C*

CG T-4

CG 6232-C

3/1/63

SA ROBERT A. COOK

2/15/63

SAS JOSEPH G. SHEA and :

WILLIAM A. MEINCKE

CG T-5

CG 6443-C

2/5/63

SAS SHEA and MEINCKE

-B-

COVER PAGE

509-10318

DocId: 32290042 Page 2

---

## Page 3

!

CG 92-373

Informant

CG T-6

CG 6512-C-TE

Date Contacted

2/1-26/63

CG T-7

PCI SHELLY GIBSON

2/15/63

CG T-8

WILLIAM ROESSLER

2/19/63

(upon request)

CG T-9

JOE LESSNER

2/18/63

U.S. Customs Agent, (upon request)

Chicago,

CG T-10

CG 6576-C*

CG T-11

Brigadier GUIDO

ZARA, Confidential

Squad, Police

Headquarters, Rome,

Italy

CG T-12

U.S. Customs Office

Boston Massachusetts

1/14,21/63

(upon request)

2/4/63

Customs

REVIEWED BY TSUFK TASK FORCE

ON

9/11/95 DAB/TH

X RELEASE IN FULL

• RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

- C*-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32290042 Page 3

_Contacting Agent

SA DENNIS W. SHANAHAN

SAS ROBERT A. COOK and

DONALD R. MORRIS

SAS ROBERT A. COOK and

ROBERT J. TOMPKINS, JI.

SA ROBERT A. COOK

SA ROBERT A. COOK

SA COOK

92-3182-759

505-1931€

---

## Page 4

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Chicago, Illinois

March 18, 1963

GUS ALEX

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Reference is made to the report of Special Agent

Robert A. Cook dated and captioned as above at Chicago,

Illinois.

CHARACTERIZATION OF INFORMANTS

The following is a characterization of the

informants used in this

report:

Chicago T-l is an individual who is in a

position to furnish information on a continuing basis

concerning Alex and his associates as well as the activities

of these people.

Chicago I-2 is an individual who due to his

employment is in a position to furnish information concerning

the activities of Alex at his residence at 1150 North Lake

Shore Drive, Chicago, Illinois.

Chicago T-3 is an individual who is in a position

to furnish intormation on a continuing basis concerning

the activities and

associates of Gus Alex.

Chicago T-4 is a

former Chicago bookmaker and

due to this past activity is in a position to furnish

information concerning the activities of Alex and his

associates.

Chicago T-5 is an individual who is personally

acquainted with Alex and other Chicago hoodlums and as a

result can furnish information concerning their activities

and associates.

Chi cago T-6 is an individual who is personally

acquainted with Gus Alex and other Chicago hoodlums and as

a result can report on the activities of these people.

DocId: 32290042 Page 4

---

## Page 5

e..t1

Chicago T-7 is an individual who due to

his employment is in a position to furnish information

concerning the persons who frequent the Cabana Club,

Chicago.

Chicago T-8 is an

individual who due to his

past employment has become acquainted with Gus Alex

and other Chicago hoodlums and as a result can now furnish

Chicago T-9 is a member of another Governmental.

Agency which has conducted recent investigation concerning

Gus Alex.

Chicago T-10 is a person who is in a position

to furnish information on a continuing basis concerning the

activities and associates of Alex.

Chicago T-ll is a member of a Foreign Investigative

Agency in Rome, Italy, and due to his employment was able

to furnish information concerning Alex's activities, while

in Rome.

Chicago T-12 is a member of a Governmental Agency

and

through this employment was able to furnish information

concerning the details of Alex's re-entry into the United

States at Boston, Massachusetts, on February 3, 1963.

nate - it

"This document contains neither recommendations

nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

It is the property of the Federal Bureau of Investigation

and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not:

to be distributed outside your agency.

92-3182-1759

DocId: 32290042

Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG 92-373

RAC: kmh

CG T-I1 advised that GUS ALEX, born April 1,

1916, in possession of United

States passport number

1569555, issued Washington, D.C. on May 13, 1959,

stayed at the Hotel Excelsior, Rome, Italy, on January

5, 1963.

He was accompanied by ROSE

M. DIETGARD

FUEGER,

born December 3, 1938, in Seewalch, Austria.

FUEGER also in possession of German passport number

4119969, issued by the German Consulate in Chicago,

Illinois.

From January 6, 1963, to January 8, 1963,

ALEX, accompanied by FUEGER, stayed at the Hotel Hassler,

Piazza Trinita del

Monti, Rome, Italy.

According to CG T-11, ALEX and FUEGER came to

Rome from

Milan, Italy, and left Rome on January 8, 1963,

for an unknown destination.

During the time they were in

Rome, ALEX and FUEGER toured the city on foot and taxi

and were not the subject of any suspected activity,

according to CG T-1l.

*The Austrian Central Criminal Police,'

Vienna,'

Austria;

advised on January 25, 1963, that

GUS ALEX was ascertained to have stayed at the

Hotel Imperial, Vienna 1, Karntnerring 16,

from

January 16 to 18, 1963,

inclusive. On the latter

dateJALEX left for Germany.

West German Central Criminal Police (BA)

advised that the Bavarian Border Police reported

that ALEX arrived at Munich, Germany at 2:15 P.M.

on January 18, 1963,

"en route from Vienna, Austria

on Lufthansa Flight No. 303. ALEX was accompanied

by SUZANNE FUEGER.

The West German Central Criminal Police

advised on February 1l, 1963, that ALEX was not

at Riederau,

West Germany, the home of sUzanne

FUEGER's mother, during the last several days,

prior

to SUZANNE's departure on February 7, 1963, for the

United States.

- 23 -

919-3 182-9591

505-10318

DocId: 32290042 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CG 92-373

RAC: kmh

The West German Central Criminal Police

advised that FUEGER left Munich, Germany, on

February 7, 1963, by Pan American Airways én route

to Frankfurt, Germany, where she had passage booked

on the Pan American Flight No. 59, departing

Frankfurt,

Germany at 12:35 P.M.,

February 7,

1963,

to arrive at Chicago at 11:20 P.M., February 7,

1963.

The BKA-West German Central Criminal

Police advised that ALEX reportedly returned to

Chicago on the afternoon of February 4, 1963.

CG T-12 advised that ALEX re-entered the

United States on February 3, 1963 at Logan Airport,

West Boston, Massachusetts.

At the time he entered

the United States,

he had in his possession eight

rolus of sixteen millimeter film which he claimed

consisted of photographs taken in Italy, Switzerland

and France.

He also had $379 in cash in his possession

and no other papers or documents. ALEX had passport

No. 1569555, issued May 13, 1959, and reissued

that he

March 3 had previously head passport No. 830270;

There was a notation on his passport

issued December 20, 1957,

which had been cancelled.

According to CG T-12, these passports showed trips

to Europe in 1961 and 1962,

and an arrival at

Montreal sometime during 1962. According to CG T-12,

ALEX stated that the trip was for vacation purposes

and listed his home address as

9353 South Spaulding

Avenue, Evergreen Park, Illinois.

According to his

passport, he left the United States on December 17,

1962.

near united Stater on Decamber 17?

Customs

REVIEWED

BY REJJFK TASK FORCE

ON 9-11-95

DAB/TH

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

- 24 =

92-3182-759

505-10318

DocId: 32290042 Page 7

---

