# docid-32297466

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10219-10242

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2914-304

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

FORSYTH, THOMAS G. III

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/18/1963

10

GM, SMO, REL, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, MEETINGS, RACK,

TRIAL, INDICTMENT, FGJ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32297466

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

PG 92-236

ADMINISTRATIVE

As the Bureau was advised by reairtel, this

report has been

delayed in order to obtain the results

of the trial in U.S. District Court, Pittsburgh, of

subject,

his brother, and their associates, on charges

of income tax fraud and evasion.

During the period of this report, liaison has

been closely maintained with Intelligence Division,

IRS,

Pittsburgh, which is currently conducted investigation

regarding this subject.

INFORMANTS

I symbols utilized in this report will be the

same, where applicable, y2s/bose used in reports back to,

and including, that of

PG T-4 is PCI ANTHONY JOHN WISE, Jr.,

who

furnished information to SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III.

PG T-39 is PG-657-CTE.

PG T-49 is PCI NICK VIGNOVIC, who furnished

information to SA SAMUEL A. MILLER.

PG T-54 is PG-620-C.

PG T-55 is PCI LOUIS DROTAR, who furnished

information to SA SAMUEL A. MILLER.

- B# -

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32297466

Page

2

---

## Page 3

te: +5.-7074

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

December 18, 1963

GABRIEL MANNARINO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Reference is made to the report of Special

Agent Thomas

G. Forsyth, III, Pittsburgh, dated

December 18, 1963.

There follows a brief characterization of

informants used in referenced report:

PG I-4 is a businessman whose activities

bring him into frequent contact with members of the

racketeering element in New Kensington, Pa.

PG T-39 is a Pittsburgh, Pa., gambler and

club operator.

PG T-49 is an individual who has been active

in gambling activities in the Monongahela Valley Section

of Allegheny County for many years.

racketeers in Western Pennsylvania.

PG T-55 is an individual who has been

engaged in the numbers racket in the area of Duquesne,

Pa., for many years.

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI.

It is

the property of the FBI

and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not

to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32297466 Page 3

---

