# docid-32302448

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10281-10168

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 110-6-210-418

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 10/26/1961

PAGES:

16

SUBJECTS :

CC, CUBAN, ECONOMIC MATTERS, FOOD ITEMS,

CLOTHING, AUTOMOBILES, MEDICINES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32302448

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

+ FD-36 (Rel 12-15.16)

Transmit the following in

Via

TO:

SECT

E BI

4,8

DIRECTOR, FBI (110-6-210)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (110-5)

Date:

AIRTEL

21/12/46 0060/30/07

(Type in plain, text or code) CLI/SS/FIED BY 3068 SWrude

AIRMAIL

DECLASSIFY ON: 26X_

riority of Method of Mailing,

5628510/66 5/26/98-2FK)

C4726 516858/694

Decla

0ADR/15/86

FOREIGN ECONOMIC MATTERS - CUBA

2/8111

121/11

3

16D0:N

Transmitted herewith are nine copies of a

letterhead memorandun, dated and captioned as above.

MM T-1 is EMILIO DIAZ, former HAV-35 "who arrived

in the U. S. 10/3/61, and on whom a separate communication

has been submitted recommending reactiviation as a PSI.

Special Agents "of"the FBl who interviewed the refugee at

Opa-locka were WILLIAM G. FRIEDEMANN

and EDWIN'L. SWEET.

-A considerable volume of data has been supplied

in the past concerning availability and distribution of

material in Cuba, but nöt in such complete and detailed

from as the attached. *Former HAV-35(was an outstandinge

with a well trained mind; and is recalled

as having produced accurate, detailed and well written

reports in the past) This material "in the enclosed memoran-

dum, is, from his own personal experience-and observation.

P

sort o"!

Bureau (EnGA

2(RM) (AM)

New York (

V$) (Encl. 1) (Info)@

3

Miami (I=

0-5. 1-

100-14344

- 134-

EMILIO DIAZ (3)

• 10%,

*OCT

ELS :bna

(7)

ADDENDUM:

PALETT DIA'

kIn

view of the timely and comprehensive nature of

eport

Central Research Section may desire

le for future issue of CINAL

to: CIA/State,

ONI/CSI/G2,

505

Sent

_M

Per ≤

67N0V 24

P93 gre

DocId: 32302448

Page 2

---

## Page 3

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

SECRET

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

MARI

AnENTIAN

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

MM 110-5

3/29/94

05'R

CONTONTIAL

Miami, Florida

OCT 26 1961

#

Classifier

SILBIA/SCL

Declassi

ng on:

DADR /15/86

ATT INTORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN 1S UNCE LEG. FIED

OTHERWiCE

FOREIGN ECONOMIC MATTERS - CUBA

The following information was furnished by

ocifer 16, 19618 MM To1 ISa formerCuban

Investigator

no arrived very recently from Havana, Cuba.

Inis source has furnished reliable information in the past:

Te majority of this report deals with the

scarcity and manner of distribution of foodstuffs, as

well as other articles of prime necessity in Cuba.

FoI

convenience it is subdivided under the headings of the

principal food items.

COOKING OILS AND GREASE

The items which comprise the principal ones.

of the difficulty in securing proper food in Cuba is due

on the

he cuban dal yet are scarce and rationed. Par

not only to the scarcity, distribution system breaks

y, but to the lack of organization

in its

& distribucion.

down, and

the articles do not arrive in the hands of the

consumers with any consistent regularity.

A rationing system has been established for

all cooking oils and grease.

Rationing cards are issued

people through the Comites de Defensa de la

Revolucion (CR

so contrees of resense of the Revolution).

CLASSIFED BY 5668 SUD/GEL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X0M6

(#R: +01-00-826198

SECRET

110-6-210-418

ENCLOSURE

CONFDENTIAL

J

DocId: 32302448

Page 3

---

