\

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI '
124-10280-10003

HQ

CR 105-112098-541

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

FBI
DREW, WILLIAM MAYO JR.
DIRECTOR, FBI

12/09/1964
36

SNFE, ACA, MIL OPERATIONS, PLAN OMEGA,
PROPAGANDA ACT, CUBAN EXILES, ARMS ACT, FINANCES,

UNITY

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

09/25/1998

INDEFINITE

y
1

' pocth 32302066 Page 1


MM 105-6243
7 laa
. INFORMANTS ‘eu inzion
Identity ! Location ‘i
y ———
/MM T-1 is MM 847-S - 134-736-Sub A
a T-2 is PSI ANGEL CARREGAL (Tampa) | 105-6243-1084, mst!
faaensata “1175
eat i
MM T-3 is PSX BLAS PEDRO AVILA 105-6243-19093, =-1226
( (San Antonio) ~ : feat

fi T-4 is MM'974- 134-962-Sub A
/

Ss
‘ -K ) a)
(MM TS zfs ora, wiani PLETE Cu 108-6243-1146,--1108,

-1110; -1140, -1155,
-I171, -1177; -1190;
: -1191, +1208; ~1212;
~1222; -1224, ~1228 (
2) ~I233, -1250, ~1275,

“12817
uit T-6 i€rous CORTINAS CRIADO (/w05~6243-1106 q
“Chief of Dominican Government l
Department of Security i: : iA) Hl

Santo Domingo, Dominican Republigk
/MM T-7 is MM 635-S 134-211~Sub A~433
/ MM T-8 is ANGEL BANOS SANCHEZ (San{Juan) 105-6243-1244

4 T-9 is PSI ANGEL YERGO | 134+987-Sub A-8
MM T-10 is SJ 533-S . ee ante

MM T-11 is 83 492-8

{ DocId:32302066 Page 2


7A aa

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59) ry : nt
poe el eal eee ee =
anid UNITED STATES DEPAREMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAT: ue DA REE
GORPEDENTEAT

1 - INS, MIAMI (RM) 1 - CUBAN AFFAIRS, U, 8. = Ss. CUSTOMS MEAWE (RM

1 ~ CIA, MIAMI (RM) DEPT, OF STATE, MIAMI (uy i --U, 8, clsTous,

1 = FAA, MIAMI (RM) 1.- U. S. COAST quArD, MIAMI (RM) REGION il, MIAMI |
i Pe G2" #T, McPHERSON, GA. (RM) 1- wu, 8S. éus'ToMs:, (RM) |

evi: “i - BORDER PATROL, MIAMI (RM) "KEY WEST, FLA, (RM)
1 = ONI, 6TH ND, CHARLESTON, S.C. (RM) ' 1 ~ OSI, 6TH DIST.,
€ y
Repot of: WILLIAM MAYO DREW, JR, ~ Office: ROBINS AFB, GA. (RM)
‘Da. --December 9, 1964 MIAMI, FLORIDA

ield Office File & 105-6243 . Bureau File #: 105-11 2098 |

:» SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY (SNFE)
(OPERATION ALPHA 66)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA;
REGISTRATION ACT — CUBA;
NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Headquarters of organization located 109-111 S. W, 12th Ave.,
Miami, Fla, A list of 60 SNFE delegations in various. parts
of U. S, as well as & delegations in Central and South

. America set forth, Federacion EStudiantil Universitaria
(FEU) signed military pact with SNFE to furnish manpower
for future military action. SNFE considering joining unity
organization of MANUEL URRUTIA, former President of Cuba.
ELOY GUTIE RREZ MENOYC, military leader of SNFE, allegedly
Eins area in mid-1964 with certain other SNFE

n 6/64, SNFE_reportedly requested assistance of
overnment in establishing a base of 7 as i i
can Republic oalyeborsstaey MENOYO reported to be nual
in Cuba with five of his in 6/64, €in late 7/64, GUTIERREZ)
was reported to- be on Andros Island, Bahamas, Agee
and hiding outside of Miami by another source, (A)
GUTIERREZ was reported to be on Williams Isl.
Andros Island and~in the DR,JGin 9/64 and 10/ GUTIERREZ
reported by several source © be in the DR. I
received indicating SNFE was ope: vating two trai camps i
Puerto Ricc during June to October, 1964, but as of tovia/ea-
both camps had closed and there were no er roups training in
Puerto Rico, As of 11/64, several sources reported GUTIERRE
nenginrog near- DR. Gs of 6/25/64, SNFE had $6,500. 1054

PES i
Ss. Grotky i i Avr

cTuded from Automatic gowns P (Ss)
grading and scelaescniamas
koa

‘This document contatns‘nether tose csi fo /ane.sfu/a5 of the FBI. It is thf

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

Seieres esas esesescatOr Ve oem

| DocId:32302066 Page 3


MM 105-6243

SECRET

FLEITES, the SNFE plans called for the gradual infiltration
of groups into Cuba in various zones until there are enough
to start operating in the Escambray Mountains, as well as
in other areas, FLEITES said he did not think the United
States Government would object to this type of operation
because there was no are o earl art of the SNFE to

_ raid the Cuban mainland

On May 28, 196 MM T-1 advised that a member of ~
the SNFE named (F: inst Name Unknown) MURL said that ) &
FLORENCIO "KIK RNAS and JOSE "CUQUI- "ASANOVA_were with A
GUTIERREZ, wheréVer that might be. (FNU) MURIAS ‘said he

knew that GUTIERREZ was still in the United States, but that

it would be,a long time before he would jbe seen around Miami

again, Cee

On May 31, 1964, MM T-1 advised that in discussing

Plan Omega on that date, ARMANDO FLEITES said that the SNFE
had only from 35 = 50 men who could be sent to Cuba, and that
the leadership of the SNFE considered that this would be
suicide, He said that it would be difficult to infiltrate

“ clandestinely, since the SNFE had very few contacts in Cuba.
Accordingly, the SNFE had no choice but to wait and follow
developments. tn

On June 8, 1964, MM T-6, a Dominican official with
excellent contacts among Officials of the Dominican Republic
(DR), advised that the SNFE had requested assistance from the
Dominican Government in establishing a base of operations in
the DR for use against the CASTRO Government. Dominican
Government authorities reportedly advised a chdaceae a a of
the SNFE that aid would be given any legitimate anti-CAST
organization if approved by the United ie ent u

ee
On June 12, 1964, Bim T-5ffurnidhed information {16 _
obtained from FRANCISCO WBOMINGUEZMAIDAGAN. DOMINGUEZ said~ fa
* y “thatKGUTIER sS in as-of.June 3, 1964, /accompanied (476
RTEGA, FLORENCIO PERNAS, JOSE CASANOVA, he
NDEZ, and- RAMO! SADA.’ DOMINGUEZ said thag}(1s~/

GUTIERREZ had been wmmarkcats' daily from the Escambray Mountains
with contacts in Costa Rica and Santo Domingo oe

DocId:32302066 Page 4

(ssi
