# docid-32328219

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/22/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90071-10019

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-2767-48

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CV

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/03/1959

6

ALEX SHONDER BIRNS

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

Redact

11/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32328219

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Cv.

92-169

INFORMANTS

CV T-1 is CSCV-370-S.

CV.T-2 is IRWIN EHREN, neighborhood source, 17002 Judson

Drive, contacted by SA (A) JOHN

J. BARRETT.

. CV T-3 Is PCI LAWRENCE BERK, contacted by SA DAVID A.

SHAPIRO on June 1, 1959.

CV I-4 1s CV-304-C contacted on June 3, 1959, by

SA DAVID A. SHAPIRO.

CV T-5 Is EDWARD I, BRAUNE, Agent, New York Telephone

company, New York City,

F. ROWLANDS on May 7, 1959.

6 o la 7, 1,50

contacted by SA PAUL

CV T-6 is Dun and Bradstreet, New York City, contacted

by IC JOHN T. LYNCH on Mạy 15, 1959.

CV T-T IS JAMES W. CURTIS, General Commercial Manager,

Cincinnati and Suburban Bell Telephone Company,

Cincinnati, Ohio, contacted by SA JAMES P.

TUCKER on May 21, 1959.

CV T-8 Is WILLIAM MEREDITH, Special Agent, Bell Telephone

Company, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

CV T-9 1s CV-427-C contacted by SA THOMAS J. O'HARA on

May 26, 1959, and June 2, 1959.

CV T-10 is JANET SUMMERS, District Manager, Clerk, Southern

Bell Telephone

and Telegraph Company, Miami,

Florida, contacted by SA LEMAN L. STAFFORD, JR.,

on May 15, 1959.

CV T-11 is VELMA O'NEAL, Service Representative, Southern

Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company,

Miami,

Florida,

_contacted by SA LEMAN L. STAFFORD, JR.,

on May 15, 1959.

-A.

COVER PAGE

dooss-10old

DocId: 32328219

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CV 92-169

CV T-12 is MN-647-PC contacted by SAS ELMER F. EMRICH

and ROBERT F. FETZNER on April 28, 1959.

• CV T-13 is ROBERT SHEEHMAN, Southern Bell Telephone

and Telegraph Company, Hollywood, Florida,

contacted by SA DENNIS J. O'SHEA, on

June 28, 1959.

CV T-14 1s TED BRUNST, SA, Intelligence Division,

Internal Revenue Service, Cleveland, Ohio,

contacted by SA (A) JOHN J. BARRETT on

July 24, 1959.

BY EEVUN TASK FORCE

6. 22.58 aL

LET EASE IN FULL

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following informants and sources are presently

being utilized:

CV-304-C, who has known BIRNS for over thirty

years and is a personal friend.

PCI MORRIS LOUIS COEN, an acquaintance of BIRNS.

POL LAWRENCE BERK.

This PCI was also a

personal friend of BIRNS.

CV-394-C.

This informant is personally

acquainted with BIRNS.

CV-308-C. This informant should be in a position

to furnish information concerning BIRNS's activities.

MAURICE HERSCH, United Loan and Discount Company,

Cleveland, who has known BIRNS most of his life.

IRWIN EHREN, 17002 Judson Drive, neighbor of

BIRNS who lives directly across the street.

PCI CARMEN J. MILANO, young Cleveland attorney

who is the son of ANTHONY MILANO, former well

known Cleveland racketeer and nephew of FRANK

MILANO, LOS Angeles Office top hoodlum.

CV-427-C. This informant is a close associate

of BIRNS.

-B-

COVER PAGE

d0011-1001d

DocId: 32328219

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Cv

92-169,

On May 26, 1959, CV T-9 reported to SA THOMAS

J. O'HARA that he had visited ALEX SHONDOR BIRNS at his

home during the last several days and that BIRNS told

him about being involved in the arfair at Miami,

Floriad, where U. S. Customs Agents seized an airplane,

munitions and arrested DOMINICK BARTONE. DOMIN

EDWARD

CV T-9 reported that BIRNS told him he was

A BATON A AMARTINE

one of the key men in the deal and that if it had gone

off, he would have made a lot of money.

CV T-9 stated that while at BIRNS' residence

BIRNS telephoned someone in New York City whom he called

TONY and during the phone conversation from what was

said it was apparent that TONY was also involved in the

Florida affair.

This phone call was made after 9:30 PM.

BIRNS stated that he was not going to contact anyone

down in Florida.

He revealed to CV T-9 that on one of

the last nights

that he, BIRNS, was in Florida he was

with two other men and the wife of one of them.

They

decided to go look at the plane involved and stopped

to drop off the wife in question and have a few drinks

at their house. On the way out of the house it started

raining heavily so they did not go see the plane, but

returned to the house.

lucky in this instance because undoubtedly the plane

was being watched at this time by U. S. Customs personnel.

CV T-9 stated he received the impression from what BIRNS

said that the two men with him were from Cuba. CV T-9

stated BIRNS told him that he is not returning to

Florida until the heat is off.

By letter dated July 15, 1959, the Miami Office

advised as follows:

cv T-10 on May 15,

1959, advised SA LEMAN L.

STAFFORD, JR.,

that UN 6-8334 was an unpublished "phone

listed to C.

KURTZ, 2540 WeSt BaY Harbor DriVe.

Apartment 4

was connected on December 31,

The files of CV T-10 reflect that this individual

is a retired clothing manufacturer from Serpentine,

Pittsburgh,

He previously had service

at 10 6-1348, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, which was aiscon-

nected probably the latter part or 1957.

ott

- 13 -

DocId: 32328219 Page 4

---

