# docid-32302971

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10282-10483

HQ

105-82933-1, 2, 3, 4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/30/1959

PAGES:

26

SUBJECTS :

DLH, MED, ASSOC, INTV, MANOS, JOSE, RES, RCK, EMP,

BKG, MIL SERV, WHEREABOUTS, DESCR, TELCAL, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC S/S, 2 RPT, MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32302971

Page 1

---

## Page 2

WE TANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

SECRET

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 2/5/60

CEROM

SAC, NEW YORK (105-38/990)

SUBJECT:

DENNIS LYNN HARBER

IS-R

# 211, 300k

Classified by

<P6BSA/GCL

Beclassity on: BADR 3/27/85

Re report of SA FRANKLIN B. TEElER, 12/30/59,

at NY, containing results of background investigation in

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

NYC area,

and report of SA RUSSELL 1.

at Kansas City, containing results of Investisation at

HEREIN IS UNCEAOOIFIED

Kansas City, Missouri and Topeka, Kansas.

By letter dated 1/27/59, the Milwaukee Office

advised NY, that it was unable to verify subject's attendance

at the University of Wisconsin. Also a check

dait and

EXCEPTUNE

criminal records was negative.-

OTHERF

When subject was discharged from the VA Hospital

in Kansas

City, Missouri, on 1/10/60, he listed his home

address as 7347 Grant St., Omahg, Nebraska.

VA records con-

tain nothing to indicate that he plans to return to the NIc

5.8 pend area.

Although HARBER was apparently permanently released

from the VA Hospital in Kansas City, he has had a past history

of commitments to mental institutions and it is felt that he

will probably require additional hospitalization and treatment

in the future.

Ny has been unable to ascertain the exact purpose

of the contacts between HARBER and Soviet LEONID A.

KOVALEV,

attention is called to ther

KOVA Eat NAREER at the time ve his association with (KOVALEVJ(S)

was an instructor at the Berlitz School of Languages, NYC...

It is also known that various other. Soviets have shown

general interest in learning languages at the Berlitz school.

REG-88 105-82933

Bureau (RM)

10-27-97

1-

Omaha ( Info) (RM)

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SED/SR

1- New York

(105-27651 5)

1- New York

105-37990

IF ONE 101 11 300

FBI: rar

545.

BEC.D

59 FEB 151960

Declassie

Esting

SECRET

DöcId: 32302971 Page 2

---

## Page 3

'SECRETE?

NY 105-37990

It is further known that both HARBER and KOVALEV&eak

Spanish, and it is

possible that this common language

ability was the basis of their association, even though

the Berlitz School.

there is no aridence that the Soviet ok a course st

and KOVALEV was discontinued in early 1959 and it is lelt s

that there is little likelihood of it being renewed in the

immediate future. KOVALVis currently in the soviet Union CS_

between Soviet VADIM A. KIRILYUK and BS 789-9, and as a re

sult of this operation, and based on a request by the lu.s.

state Department, the Secretary General of the United Nations (S)

requested and obtained KIRILYUK's resignation from the U.N. CS_

Secrotarlata (5)

In view of the foregoing, NY feels that HARBER

does not constitute a threat to the security of this country

at this time and this case is being placed in a closed status.

No consideration is being given to requesting permission to

interview subject in view of his past history of mental 11l

ness. It is belleved that such an interview might well result

in embarrassment to the Bureau however, should any intorma

tion come to the attention of this office indicating that

HARBER has renewed his contacts with KOVALEV and/or any other

soviets, this case will be promptly re-opened and additiona 5

investigation will be conducted. yal

A copy of this letter is being furnished to

Omaha for information purposes inasmuch as subject apparent

ly resides within the territory covered by that office.

- 2 .

139030

SECRET

Sas..10193

DocId: 32302971

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Report Form -

FD-265 (Rev.

512.

SECRET

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

9/17 - 12/15/59

12/30/59

REPORT MADE BY

FRANKLIN B. TEETER

CHARACTER OF CASE

INTERNAL SECURITY - R

TYPED BY

cah

DENNIS IYNNHARBER

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIO 5-23-94

IN THIS DOCUMENT. + 7-30-471363700

SYNOPSIS:

SLO/KSR 8-27-97beclasshy.om

REFERENCE (JFK)

Declassity on: DADR

06. с 8 5

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIRIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHONA

OTHERWISE

Met to Director, 1130/39.

10-27-97

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUD/LSK

det"

ADMINISTRATIVE

DECLASSIFY ON: COA

1, l

5668-540 Mde 1125

JFK)

Ny T-I in this report is BURTON VAN HORN FOREMAN.

In compliance with instructions previously received from the

9/15/59, captioned "BURTON VAN HORN

and will not initiate further contacts with this individual.

However, NY will continue to accept any information that FOREMAN

voluntarily furnishes. (lu)

Since September, 1959, FOREMAN has voluntarily

contacted

the NYO on several occasions but has been unable

HARBER's contacts with SovIes LEONID A KOVALEN? (5) 311

to expand upon the original information he furnished about

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

5

2

3

УдАй

Bureau

(RM)

Kansas City

(RM)

-

Milwaukee

(Info)

(RM)

• New York (105-37990)

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105-82933

REG. 57

13 DEC

31 1959

IAN/St 4/2964

ale,

KACO KERON

CH/State/RAO

REQ. REC'D

ONI/OSI/ACSI/DIM

HUN TURN

by routing ship for into.

/BY

20/h0y Arm.

PROPERTy Of Rel.- This laport is leaned to you typho kill andicher it nor iks cortents are to be distribulat outsil the agency to which towner.

SECRET

GPO: 1958 0 - 454008

64

JAN 1 2 1960

DocId: 32302971

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

•NY 105-37990

ADMINISTRATIVE CONT'D

Attention is called to fact that the information pertaining

-to subject's medical history is protected by I symbol (I-3)•

This

was done as the local Veterans Administration office requested that

this information be kept confidential.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NY I-]

File Number Where Located

105-37990-1

BURTON VAN HORN

FOREMAN

160 Claremont Avenue

NYC, Instructor,

Columbia University,

NYC

(by request)

MY T-2

Physical Observation Posts,

(6)

105-27651-2227

(S)

Springfield, Mass.

NY T-3

Mrs.

_ROSLYN LIFSCHITZ,

Legal Division,

Instant report

Pages 4 said 6

(furnished to SA RAYMOND i. KOPP)

Veterans Aaministration,

252 Seventh Ave., NYC

(by request)

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and I symbols were utilized in the report only in those

instances where the identities of the sources must be concealed.

Identified below are those informants who were contacted

re subject with negative results:

Identity of Informant

Date Contacted

NY

384-5*

11/19/59

NY

NY

367-S:

11/20/59

646-S*

11/20/59

559-5*76)

11/27/59

- B-

COVER PAGE

SECRET!

Contacting Agent

SA JAMES P. HALLERON

SA JAMES P. HALLERON

SA JOHN A. HAAG

SA JOHN

A. HAAG

VI

REVIEWED BY

LS/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

1v/97 dab

1 RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

DocId: 32302971 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRETE

NY 105-37990

LEADS

KANSAS CITY

At Kansas City, Missouri

1.

Will ascertain if HARBER is still a patient

in the Veterans Hospital in Kansas City®

2.

If HARBER is a patient in the Veterans Hospital,

will attempt to obtain a current diagnosis of che state

of his health and an estimate of how long he will be

hospitalized.

Kansas City is requested to furnish this

information in report form along with any additional

background information which is available.

MILWAUKEE (INFORMATION)

At Madison, Wisconsin

A copy of this report is being furnished to

Milwaukee Inasmuch as that office is in the process of

conducting investigation in this case.

NEW YORK

At New York, New York

Will await the results of investigation being

conducted by the Kansas City and Milwaukee Offices and

will thereafter make recommendations as to the future

handling of this casè.

CLASSIFICATION

This report kas been classified "Confidential"

because it reflects investigation being conducted by the

Bureau regarding En official of a foreier government, which, 3)

because of its delicate nature requires State Department

clearance] (5)

-0*-

COVER PAGE

SECRETI

DocId: 32302971 Page 6

---

## Page 7

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIdENTIAL

SECRET:

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

File Number:

Titlê:

FRANKLIN B. TEETER

12/30/59

New York 105-37990

DENNIS LYNN HARBER

Office: New York, New York

#2112761

Classified

SPOBJA/ECL

Declassif on: B4DR 3/31/85

Character:

Synopsis:

INTERNAL SECURITY - R

DENNIS HARBER, 454 West 22nd St., NYC, reported

to have been in contact with Soviet translato

LEOND A. KOVALVat a party in June, 1958 $ (5)

Investigation re DENNIS LYNN HARBER PILECUS

he was born 11/26/27 at Fairmont, Minnesota;

was a patient in Veterans Hospital, Kansas

City,

Missouri, as of September, 1959; was last known

to reside in NYC at 454 West 22nd St.; and was

employed from January, 1955 to June, 1950 as ar

English Instructor at Berlitz School of Languages,

NYC.

Other background data set forth and results

of criminal, credit and election checks in NYC

reported.

HARBER unknown to several informants

in NYC area.

-P-

5:23-94/05 meleke

Declassify/on. DADR (JFK)

ALL INFORMIATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNELASSIFIED

SiCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

3

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of any kind.

It is the property of the FBI, and is a loan

to your agency; it and/or its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency. +

10:27-97

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SED/ISR

-CLASSIFY ON: 25X 1 40

5668-540 nde

17251975749 (FK)

SECRED

DocId: 32302971 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET!

NY 105-37990

DETAILS

I. BASIS OF INVESTIGATION

On September 17, 1959, NY I-I reported that in

do Vest It Sent Nue oK the Defatz School of Janguages,

During this party, accoraing to the intormants

HARBER and KOVALEV were quite friendly. NY I- aLso s

advised that during the evening HARBER became quite

intoxicated and started talking about Communism. According®

to the informant, HARBER talked about Communist

cells

in Spain and seemed to speak with authority and knowledge.

NY I-1 further reported that it was his understanding

that HARBER and KOVALEV had been socially acquainted in thes

past; however, informant was unable to recali the source

01. •

this information.

Informant still further advised that he had heard

that HARBER had at one time undergone psychiatric treatment

in a Veterans Hospital in the New York City area.

NY T-1

was unable to furnish the location of this hospital, nor

was he able to furnish the identity of the person who had

furnished him this information.

SECRET!

DocId: 32302971

Page

8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

NY 105-37990

The publication entitled "Staff of the United

[S]

rations secretariat; report of the Secretary-Generaly C32

reflects that Soviet LEONID KOVALEV_ IS

Translator-Trainee at UN secretariat] (5)

IY I-2 advised that soviet LEONID A. KOVALEV S

nas participated In Intelitence activitted in the pastys)

-3=

SECRET

DocId: 32302971

Page 9

---

## Page 10

= B.

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/30/59

SAC, NEW YORK (265-37990)

DENNIS LYNN HARBER

IS - R

Declashty on: DADRE

on 9/17/59, while furnishing the details of his

ATE INFORXATION CONTATNED

HEREIN IS UrdLAsSIrTeD

EXCOPS KARNE

SHOAN

OTHERING

reported that in June, 1958, he, FOREMAN, gave a party at

his residence which KOVALEV attended.

party

Also present at thi:(5)

was one DENNIS HARBER, 454 W. 22nd St., Apt. 4W, NYC,

Identifled by FOREMAN as an

Berlitz School. During the

friendly and FOREMAN advised that it was his understanding

that the two had been

socially acquainted in the past;

however, he was unable to recall the source for this latter

information.

FOREMAN further advised that, during this party,

HARBER became intoxicated and started talking about Communism.

He talked about Communist cells in Spain and, according to the

source, seemed to speak with authority and knowledge.

During the 9/17/59, interview, FOREMAN furnished the

following additional information about HARBER:

Source reported that he had heard that HARBER had

in the past undesgone psychiatric treatment at some Veterans

Hospital in the NYC area, but was unable to furnish the

identity of the person who had furnished him this information.

FOREMAN further reported that HARBER's roommate at

454 W. 22nd St., Apt. 4W, was one AMERICO (LNU). However,

source advised that he had heard that HARBER is currently

11 ving someplace in the Middle West.

Here again, FOREMAN

wrasuunable to recall who had furnished him, this

Information.

- Bureau (RM)

EX 109.

MCT - 24//

1105: 02938.

- Kansas City

• (RM)

- New WorE (105-27651) (SONID A. KOVALEN<S)

1. - New York

(105-37990

523-94

FBI: amc

(8)

Glacemen

05

Declessily o

58 DEC 10 1959

7-13

SECRED

1.659

10-27.97

CLASSIED BY 5665-540/KSR

DECLASSAY ON 20X

APPROPRIA

AND FIEL

PIOES

OUTING

S.7 5413

RATE

(TEK)

DocId:32302971

Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRETI

NY 105-37990

In view of the foregoing, NY has opened a 105-

Contact case on HARBER for the purposes of ascertaining the

degree of association between HARBER and KOVALEV] in the past (5)

and to determine if this association has continued to the

present time. NY is also interested in ascertaining if

HARBER has any potential as a double agent. 5)

The following investigation has been conducted:

On 11/18/59, Mr. JOSE MANOS, Assistant Director,

Berlitz School of Languages, 40 W. 5lst St., NYC, made

available HARBER's employment record. It reflected that

HARBER first went to work for the Berlitz School as an English

Instructor on 1/5/55. He worked at irregular intervals

thereafter, his last period of employment being from March, 1958,

to 6/26/58. His application for employment reflected that he

was born on 11/20/27, in the US, that his residence address

in 1955 was 319 W. 14th St., NYC, and his Social Security

This application further

reflected that HARBER was at one time in the US Army (dates

and ASN not shown), and served in US occupation forces in

Germany and Italy.

It still further revealed that HARBER

attended the University of Wisconsin (dates and field of

study not shown) and was formerly employed as an Instructor

at the Boys Industrial School at Topeka, Kansas (period

not reflected).

At the conclusion of the 11/18/59, interview, JOSE

MANOS advised that the Berlitz School had on several occasions

since June, 1958, tried to get in touch with HARBER, to

ascertain if he wanted to teach courses; but they had been

unsuccesful, even though he had left a telephone number

with them,

namely CHelsea 3-7208.

According to MANOS, an

individual'who identified himself as AMERICO had answered

the telephone each time they called advising that HARBER

was out of the city.

- 2 -

SECRET

85-183

DocId: 32302971 Page 11

---

## Page 12

4-22 (RSV. 7-21-5954

3I8 SECRET

Federal Bureau of In

stigation

Records Bran

12/9

-, 1959

Mame Searching Unit - Room 6527

Service Unit - Room 6524

Forward to File Review

Attention

Return too urner 2260

Supervisor

Room

Ext.

Type of References Requested:

_Regular Request (Analytical Search)

All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive

References Only

Main

References Only

Type of Search Requested:

Restricted to Locality ofte

Exact Name Only (On the zeetes

BUI CUPSHOWE OTHERMISE atIonS

subiect Dennis

Birthdate & Place

Address

Localities

R#.

SIC

517)

Declessity

_ Date

12/9

_ Initials

Initicis f

FILE NUMBER

• SERIAL

105-62233

Dennis

ennis

8434-8502-3

- 470-349118)

LASSIFIED BY 5668.300 .3001/45K

ПС) перія

ЗОВІС

Classified b

SECRETI

DocId: 32302971

Page 12

---

