# docid-32289474

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10201-10250

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2781-529

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, TP

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 04/19/1962

' PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS:

LST, ASSOC, ACT, RES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:: 10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32289474

14

Page 1

---

## Page 2

4-41 (Rey. 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLodet

Evanst

Malone

Rosen.

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy .

Radio

• Teletype

DEFERRED 419-62

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC, MIAMI

FROM SAG

TAMPA

191555

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JRO, AKAO, AR. DAILY TELETYPE.

DOMINICK LA ROCA, POI (PROTECT) REPORTED APRIL 17

THAT SUBJECT POSSIBLY SEEN AND MAY BE AT COLUMBIA RESTAURANT

ON APRIL 17°

SUBJECT OBSERVED BY BUREAU AGENTS TO ARRIVE COLUMBIA

RESTAURANT 4:58 PM, SAT IN COFFEE SHOP, AND LEFT 5:59 PM

WHEN RETURNED BACK TO RESIDENCE AND DRIVEN BY JAMES GO

LONGO.

IN GENERAL CONVERSATION WITH JAMES CO LONGO, IN

LIQUOR STORE ANNEX OF COLUMBIA RESTAURANT, DURING ABOVE

PERIOD OF TIME, LONGO INFERRED MIAMI FBI OFFICE KNEW WHERE

SUBJECT RESIDED IN MIAMI, AND MADE GENERAL STATEMENT SUBJECT.

IN TAMPA JUST FOR EASTER HOLIDAY.

SUBJECT WAS REPORTED BY SOURCE ON APRIL 18 IN AFTERNOON

AGAIN AT COLUMBIA RESTAURANT ONLY FOR COFFEE.

MIAMI SUTEL MODE OF TRAVEL OF SUBJECT AND WHEN HE LEFT

MIAMI.

REG. 58

RECEIVED: 1:00 PM HL

12

-2781-529

EX-II4

& APR 20 1962

sheldan

110

+.

980

53 APR 25 1962

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32289474 Page 2

---

