# docid-32306420

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/22/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10290-10060

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-9927-1, 2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/17/1967

4

ENB, CRIMINAL ACT, FINANCES, ASSOC, CM, LHM, JFK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC A/T

N9.1

DooId: 32306420

Page

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev: 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

F BI

Date:

6/5/67

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. DeLoach.

Mr.

Mohr

Mr.

Nir.

Pár. Cellahan

Mr.

Conrad

Mr. Felt.

Wit.

Gala

Mr.

Rosen

AI.r.

Sullivan.

Tavel..-

Mr. trotter.

Tele. Room.

Miss_ Holmes.

Miss Gandy.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-9927)

ATT: CRIME RECORDS

FROM: SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-2675) (C)

RE:

EDWARD NICHOLAS BECKER

AR

00: LOS ANGELES

Re Los Angeles airtel 5/17/67.

LA 4367-C-TE, a friend of ED REID, Vauthor of the

soon to be published book,

" contacted REID

telephonically on 5/26/67 and elf ined to him that SIDNEY

KORSHAK had reported that ED BECKER was trying to shake

down some of KORSHAK's friends for money to keep their names

out of the book.

The purpose of source was to discredit BECKER to

REID in order that the CARLOS MARCELLO incident would be

deleted from the book by REID. BECKER is obviously REID's

informant concerning reportedly informing Bureau Agents in

September, 1903, that CARLOS MARCELLO was planning on killing

President KENNEDY.

REID did not commit himself as to deleting or

changing any passage of the book.

on 5/31/6838600000

source and SA GEORGE E. BLAND contacted

aBI

Bureau

2

-LOS

Angeles

(1 - 137-252879 0

GEB/mjg

(5)

12-9222-2

A3 SUNN

Jones

1967

EX-104

If Approved: WOM

55 JUN 2 - 5909)

Agent in Charge

Sent

_ M

Per

DocId: 32306420

Page 2

---

## Page 3

IA 92-2675

Mr. and Mrs. ED REID at their residence, 5000 San Vicente

Boulevard, Los Angeles.

Source again related KORSHAK's

statements concerning BECKER.

again pointed out to

REID that BECKER had been interviewed

by Bureau Agents

in November, 1962 concerning the BILLIE SOL ESTES case, but

had not mentioned the reputed conversation or statements

allegedly made by MARCELLO on 9/11/63, (almost a year later)

at Churchill Farms, New Orleans.

REID stated he would never publish anything to

discredit the Bureau or cause embarrassment to the bureau.

Mrs. NANCY REID and then ED REID agreed that

that portior

of the manuscript concerning the Bureau would be deleted.

LA 4367-C-TE was most helpful in effecting the

desired objective.

- 2-

-00-10008

DocId: 32306420

Page

3

---

## Page 4

FD-3f. (Rev. 5-22564)

88:08

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

5/17/67

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL - REGISTERED

(Priority)

TO

DIRECTOR,- FBI

ATTN:

CRIME RECORDS

SAC, LOS ANGELES (

-NEW)

EDWARD NICHOLAS BECKER

AR

V.sf

Re Los Angeles airtel captioned,

CONCERNING," dated 5/11/6v/l

REID; INFORMATION

Referenced airtel furnished information that REID,

co-author of the pook "The Green Felt Jungle,

has now written

book entitled eungle..U.S.A

which is to

be published in

she near futurer

In this book, REID devotes one chapter to

CARLOS MARCELLO, LCN member in New Orleans.

information and

statements supposedly made by CARLOS

on 9/11/63, concerning the pending assassination of President meet

KENNEDY.

REID attributed this information to an informant who

claimed he was interviewed by FBI Agents in Los Angeles and LACISANC

gave this same information to them in September, 1963. Based

on the information furnished by REID, it was concluded that

his informant probably is EDWARD NICHOLAS BECKER.

confronted with this but would not identify his informant.

On 5/17/67, LA 4367-C-TE advised he received a call

on 5/16/67, from SIDNEY KORSHAK.

KORSHAK inquired as to who

ED BECKER was and advised that BECKER was trying to shakedown

some of KORSHAK's friends for money by claiming he is the

- Bureau (RM)

5

-

Los Angeles

• (ED REID)

92-742)

SIDNEY KORSHAK

REG-15 N/92 -

9927°

- 137+2528) (LA 4367-C-TE

LVL/MAL

removen...

(9)

1 espy

in Crime Récordsts

MCI-37

MAY 22, 1967

GWe

Sent

_M

Per

approved:

5'7 MA18 3 SPiel Agent in Charge

DocId: 32306420

Page 4

---

## Page 5

LA 92-NEW

collaborator with REID and that for money he could keep the

names of these people out of the book.

It is noted that source

had requested KORSHAK's name be deleted, and it was.

Source called for REID and spoke to his wife on 5/17/67:

Mrs. NANCY REID was the personal secretary for source in Las Vegas

for many years.

Mrs. REID stated that BECKER was not connected

with REID as the collaborator on his new book nor was anyone else.

Source then called KORSHAK on 5/17/67, and related

what had been told to him."

KORSHAK remarked that BECKER was a

no good

"shakedown artist.

The Bureau will be advised of developments.

2

888-195830

DocId: 32306420

Page 5

---

