" FD-36 (Rev. 1¢19-68) oe oo

Transmit the following in ede be
: Uiype w Plain text or code)
via AIRTEL ia i
ee aes a iehlie 0 epeenes 2 . meee wee Te

’ : *

10: DIRECTOR, FBI (157-742) y
FROM: SAC, CLEVELAND (157-127) i

Ress) 2 CAVEOMB iy) aera?

a A

Re Cleveland airtel to Bureau dated 7/23/64. *

RE: LOCAL GRAND JURY ACTION ‘
; x

On 7/27/64, five area racket figures were found
guilty of contempt of court by Mahoning County Common Pleas
Court Judge SIDNEY M. RIGELHAUPT for their refusal to answer
questions before the Mahoning County GJ. The five defendants
were sentenced as follows:

JOHN BURNICH - 10 days in the county Jail and $500 and
costs. -

3)

PATSY BUCILLI, 293 Sanderson Ave., Campbell, Ohio - the same.

VINCENT PRATO, Route 224, Poland, Ohio - 5 days in jail
and $250 and costs.

DOMINIC SENZARINO, JR., 58 Center Street, Struthers, Ohio -
2 days in county jail and $100 and costs,

STEPHEN "SKIN" BAJNOK, 52 Lilburne Drive, Youngstown,

\ Ohio - the same.
V/T > Bureau i
8 - 62-9:
2 22-6054) > a :
6 - Clev a : S
I - 92-621) (1 - 92. §
fi - 3e-7183 {i - 35-71k3
FGD/jmo i
sj inane
Approved: : F Sent M Per
ee en large mean mart

6 0 AUG 10 1984 {"

DocId:32576089 Page 1


Cv 157-127

RE: PROSECUTIONS PENDING IN FEDERAL COURT, CLEVELAND, RELATIVE
TO RELATED FEDERAL GAMBLING VIOLATIONS

Relative to the case Captioned "ANTHONY J. CORBISELLO,
aka.; Et Al; ITWP," Cleveland file 168-62, Bureau file 168-508,
on 7/24/64, AUSA HARRY E, PICKERING, Cleveland, advised that
ANTHONY J. CORBISELLO entered a plea of guilty that day to
four counts. He stated he will receive his sentence following
a presentence investigation. He stated following this, he :
contemplates dismissing the indictment against BEN JOSEPH
CORBISELLO.

RE: SUSPECT DOMENIC MOIO (Deceased)

CV-344-C on 7/22/64 visited FRANK MEZZATESTA, Kent,
Ohio, a close associate of DOMINIC MOLO before his murder.
While there visiting, MEZZATESTA's nephew, ANTHONY MADAFFARE,
appeared at his home. The conversation bétween thé informant”
and MEZZATESTA and his nephew got around to Youngstown and both
cautioned the informant to stay away from there. MADAFFARE ~
stated in Italy when a man has a friend, he can trust hin, but
in Youngstown "friend kills friend,®

CVv-344-C stated he learned that MADAFFARE was
probably closer to DOMINIC MOIO than MEZZATESTA, He stated
from their conversation, hé gatheréd MOLIO and MADAFFARE had
lived together and although they did not say so. specifically,
he gathered it had been in Youngstown. He stated hé got the
impression that MADAFFARE had more information about MOIO's
activities than MEZZATESTA,

When discussing the bombing of BILLY NAPLES on 7/1/62,
MEZZATESTA again stated MOLO had been responsible and that
"they" had ordered him to do this. He stated he liked BILLY
NAPLES, but when such a thing was ordered he was powérless: to
interfere. MEZZATESTA also stated MOIO made the mistake of ~
working for too many factions, arid he would work for any group
for monéy and this was what caused his death when it was ~~~
determined that he had "hit" some member of the "organization."

Cv-344-C stated neither mentioned who the “organization”
member had been who was "hit," but he assumed that it was
either CAVALLARO or VINCE DE NIRO, who was blown up 7/17/61
while MOIO was in the employ of BILLY NAPLES.

eae

Docld:32576089 Page 2


© O

cv 157-127

Cv-344-C stated he invited MEZZATESTA and his wife
to visit him and he believes wnder the right circumstances,
he can get more and specific information on this.

\

Docld:32576089 Page 3
