-
SuEEL a
a” % 5 Belmor
‘BH ® pe Mobe

Callohon

’ Gee Conrad

DeLoach

DECODED COPY a

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan
Tavel

Trotter

Tole. Room
Holmes

Gony
cxxRadio caTeletype
URGENT, 6-27-62 GS
TO PIRECTOR e
FROM SAC PHILADELPHIA 271915
(e)

ANGELO BRUNO, AKA, AR. DAILY.
PH = 623-C# IN THE PAST REPORTED ANGELO BRUNO EMPLOYES

DOMESTIC ONCE A WEEK BY NAME "EVELYN" WHO RESIDES IN ONE OF
THE HOMES OF FATHER DIVINE. THROUGH DOROTHY DARLING, DIVINE'S
PERSONAL SECRETARY, “EVELYN" IDENTIFIED AS "EVERLASTING LIFE."
LATTER INTERVIEWED EVENING JUNE 26 LAST AND AGREEABLE ASSIST
BUREAU. PH 61).-C-TE REPORTED CALOGERO SINATRA, VISITING
ITALIAN NATIONAL, BROUGHT TO BRUNO BY PETER MAGGIO AFTER SINATRA
LEFT INS OFFICE JUNE 26 LAST. SINATRA REMAINED WITH BRUNO AT
PENN JERSEY VENDING MAJORITY OF THE DAY MEETING BRUNO'S PRINCIPAL
LIEUTENANT PHILIP TESTA AND OTHER ASSOCIATES.

INFORMANT IDENTIFIED UNKNOWN YOUNG MALE WHO BOARDED TRAIN
30TH STREET SFATION 3 P M JUNE 26 LAST AS "JOEY." RESIDENT
LONG ISLAND, NY, SON OF ALFREDO LNU, WHOSE SISTER NAME UNKNOWN
GETTING MARRIED JULY 6 NEXT. "JOEY" ACCOMPANIED SINATRA TO NY,
FROM NY TO PHILA BY TRAIN 11:30 PM, JUNE 25 LAST WHERE SINATRA

TURNED OVER TO PETER oe O77- 6o 7

EX 100 : i
i FINGERPRINTS SINATRA OBTAINED INS JUNE 26 LAST AND FORWARDED
IDENTOIVISIC

TR

—— a RT

+ MAIL COPY NEW YORK. =. J yun Ba 1962

BRUNO CONSIDERED DANGEROUS sme re ee
Z aman
RECEIVED: | h:25 PM BMP

as Intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably
paraphrased inorder to protect the Bureau’s cryptographic systems.

53 JUL 2 1962

Docld:32561554 Page 1


Tolson
Belmont

ieee i Mor
Callehan
Conrad
DeLoach
DECODED COPY —
‘ Malone 4 BS,
: Rosen A
2 Sulliven
Z Tavel Z

ean foe

Holmes a

caxRadio M /  ofeletype 2
\e nt ve id
|
URGENY 6-27-62 % ae
TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC PHILADELPHIA ( 271915 .

ANGELO BRUNO, AKA, AR. DAILY. Se

PH ~ 623-C% IN THE PAST REPORTED ANGELO BRYNO EMPLOYES
DOMESTIC ONCE A WEEK BY NAME "EVELYN" WHO RESIDES’ IN ONE OF
THE HOMES OF FATHER DIVINE, THROUGH DOROTHY DARLING, DIVINE'S
PERSONAL SECRETARY, "EVELYN" IOENTIFIED AS "EVERLASTING LIFE."
‘LATTER INTERVIEWED EVENING JUNE 26 LAST AND AGREEABLE ASSIST /
BUREAUS PH 614-C-TE REPORTED CALOGERO SINATRA, VASITENG |
_ATALTAN NATE RAL, BROUGHT TO BRUNC BY PETER MAGGI@ AFTER SINATRA 7
LSET~INS OFFICE JUNE 26 LAST. SINATRA REMAINED WJTH BRUNO AT 4
PENK, JERSEY VENDING MAJORITY OF THE DAY MEETING BRUNO'S PRINCIPAL |
LIEUTENANT PHILIP TESTA ANO OTHER ASSOCIATES.

i

INFORMANT IDENTIFIED UNKNOWN YOUNG MALE WHO BOARDED TRAIN
30TH STREET SATION 3 P M JUNE 26 LAST AS "JOEY." RESIDENT
LONG ISLAND, NY, SUN OF ALFREDO LNU, WHOSE SISTER NAME UNKNOWN,
GETTING MARRIED JULY 8 NEXT. "JOEY" ACCOMPANIED SINATRA TO NY,
FROM NY TO PHILA BY TRAIN 11:30 PM, JUNE 25 LAST WHERE SINATRA
TURNED OVER TO PETER MAGGIO.

ASDA GES! ARDED

. FINGERPRINTS SINATRA OBTAINED: PNSCOUNE 6 L!
Sie int ie
TaN a at :

IDENT DIVISION. ~

WS CISL. SF naw
Ay a

: BECO: SC
/ pe oY oS
Ri vy sy

e, me Ay
A, : AN

If the inielligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased inorder to protect the Bureau’s ‘eryptographic systems. a
po ~ 2792 COF

Aaa COPY NEW YORK. 7
; _ 4 a

Ales reece tl eee
227 BRUNO CONSIDERED paNGERBESEIAED va
RECEIVED: yr25 PM BMP 1

Docld:32561554 Page 2
