“be fe -

© PD-3€4Rev. 12-13-56) & S

° 2 FBI

4

Date: 1-25-65

\y) Transmit the following in
(Type in plain text or code)

Via _ AIRTEL
: (Priority or Method of Mailing)
Ieee Pantera Ea tana teat ranean raeanseeatrenensenantansenstangansanpeancananaqs-qe=seundannsnainansanq/nesesaaseenadnesfHG3es]ss0sH5S0855250008N0N0055S0855055502058 j ISpebeeis pees ceeycerss sees
‘0: Director, FBI (92-3182)
FROM: Legat, Paris (92-4) (P.)

UBJECT: GUS ALEX
: AR

Re Paris airtel 1-20-65.

On 1-20-65 CHARLES BALSAN of the Police Judiciaire
(Criminal Police), Streté Nationale (PJS; advised that in-
formation had been received that SUZA 'UEGER had left the
Hotel Bristol, Paris, France, on approximately January 17 or
January' 18, 1965, to return to her residence at 177_ Promenade
des Anglais, Nice, France. According to BALSAN, Subject was
sti residing at the Hotel Bristol and was expected to remain
there until 1-24-65. :

On 1-23-65 BALSAN advised that further inquiry at the
Hotel Bristol had reveded that subject had departed the hotel
on 1-20-65 and that his destination and present whereabouts are
unknown.

XN BALSAN stated that hotel authorities had previously
agreed to advise the PJSN of subject's departure but apparently
had neglected to do so. It should be noted that during the
period in question German Chancellor ERHARD was reportedly
residing at the same hotel, and BALSAN speculated that hotel
authorities were so preoccupied with their distinguished visitor
that they inadvertently neglected to advise the PJSN.

bh 5 - Bureau Qa 7 Pare eet REG Ig GQ-WE A )0 3

: CABO», 23 f ‘
I. 1 - Legat, Bern (sent“direct) (Info.) (92-10) .
1 - Legat, Bonn (sent direct) (Info.) (92-5) | sexe meron eee}
1 - Paris 2 ae ee ~ j
=a 8 bes = i JAN 28 1968
oe

Cows mea Lk
aoe ee

Aopro QV
| FEB 4 1965 — Special Agent in Charge

M. «.Per

Docld:32556618 Page 1


Paris 92-4

BALSAN stated that the PJSN is currently making inquiries
with local airlines and in the vicinity of the residence of SUZANNE
FUEGER at Nice in an effort to develop further information con-

erning the subject's present whereabouts. We will advise the
Bureau promptly of amy additional information we may receive.

Chicago is requested to alert appropriate sources to
the possibility that subject may have returned to the United
States.

9,-3182-103 |

Docld:32556618 Page 2
