JFK Assassination System.
Identification Form

Date:

5/14/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
*PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :

_ DATE OF LAST REVIEW He

OPENING CRITERIA :

> COMMENTS :

vol
Docld:32295964 Page 1

“Agency Information

FBI
124-10216-10240

HQ

92-6054-132

Document Information

FBI
JOHNSON, KERMIT F.
DIRECTOR, FBI

12/19/1962
4

LCN, ASSOC, TRA, RES, REL, B/F INT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

05/21/1998

INDEFINITE



ay

tet area

FEDERA\.-BUREAU OF IN\ iSTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
PHOENIX NEW YORK 12/19/62 4/25 - 12/19/62.

TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY aryPEDLEY.
THE IMINAL "COMMISSION" SA KERMIT F. JOHNSON veb
ET AL . ae CHARACTER, OF CASE. _

a? 7 Et

\ oe AR - CONSPIRACY

Af

oo eee 7 : REFERENCE

Report of SA JAMES P, FLYNN, dated 6/29/62, at New York.
New York airtel to Bureau, 11/13/62. :

-P- a
ADMINISTRATIVE

It will be noted that recently, the Phoenix Division
developed an informant, PX 696-C, who is very close to.the~ ..
activities and associates of WILLIAM S.\BONANNO, son of JOSEPH -
BONANNO, This live informant at this time appears to be in the
best position of anyone to possibly obtain information concern
ing JOSEPH BONANNO's activities, inasmuch as past investigation
has established that JOSEPH BONANNO is extremely secretive i
and only through his son, who is at times loquacious is much
if any information received concerning this subject. There is
also being used as an informant in the Phoenix Division the j
personal physician of JOSEPH BONANNO, who is carried as a Potential”:

iminal Informant, T. -E. A. VON DENROTH, M.D. Phoenix Division

APPROVED a SPECIAL AGENT "Bo NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW
ponies wince:
Ga-\ns4— VSR.
a | fen 54}
———

(3- Bureau (92-6054) ;

SS

| 3 - New York (92-2840) 402 4 14 DEG 27 1962
ee paceeetide LCV AlAE !

| 3 - Phoenix (92-278) #5 5 finisun H
: GQ 5 92-28) = |
| fh PAE 5 50 by by j
DISSEMJNATION RECORD. OF ATTACHEDAREFORT NOTATIONS |

reac

© @ QMAR 19 195 FooPms nmsrRovE es oe |

10 MAR 29 1965 a

Docld:32295964 Page 2


= a 2 >
2 ¢ -
zs
PX 92-278
KFJ/veb
. has in the past and is still utilizing his services, a real

estate investment broker, who is carried as a Potential Criminal
Informant, ED WATZ, who has in the past handled some real estate
transactions for. JOSEPH BONANNO. During the recent past, however, |:
this informant has been unable to furnish any information of
value concerning this subject;

During the period covered by this report, the Phoenix Hl

Division utilized highly confidential sources in the residence |
and automobile owned by the subject, but no information of value H
was received from either of these sources concerning any activities |
or connections of JOSEPH BONANNO, with the "Commission". As has
been previously stated,. investigation has.established that JOSEPH
BONANNO does nothing-in Arizona except reside in Tucson in the
role of a wealthy retired gentleman. Through the. investigation
concerning his activities, there has never been developed in

' the Phoenix Division or by other divisions of the Bureau any
information to indicate that BONANNO has any "commission" activity
whatever going in Arizona.. : F :

|

- Be =

COVER PAGE

Docld:32295964 Page 3
