JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10213-10455
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 92-2972-25
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: BA
. TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 08/27/1958
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
SMO
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATEOF LASTREVIEW: 04/28/1999
OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

Date:

5/28/201

v9.1

}
Docld:32294679 Page 1


Oo

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

— ‘é

Me.
a
Q
fest
5
5
wm
S
A
se)
S

DIRECTOR, FBL DATE: 8/27/58
: fy VA

SAC, BALTIMORE (92-137)

i

@
MIKE GENOVESE, was. i
AR : H

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, was.

\
I
Mi
ne
S

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

AR
00: Pittsburgh

Re Baltimore letter, 7/18/58, re arrangements for interview
of Baltimore PCI MAX GOLDBERG, CPA.

on 8/21/58, _M Gorpeme (conceal identity), was interviewed
at his residence, 3701 Ciarinth Road, Baltimore... Maryland, —
py SA(A) PAUL A, TURNER, at which time Mr, GOLDBERG advised

as follows: *

>

After Mr, GOLDBERG became a CPA in the State of Maryland in
1932, ‘he decided. to engage in public practice of accounting
on a full time professional basis, At that time, the
economic situation in the country was poor and he found it \
difficult to make a Jiving. In about 1637, he developed }
7 A. Me, RO C GINNIS.as a client. MC GINNIS operated a i
musie"maéhine distributing business, and-is.currently in fi !
“Da, the coin machine business under the name of. Roy’ McGinnis i
ee Corporation, Maryland Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland. '

» te I
In about 1940, Mr. MC GINNIS too GOLDBERG to Pittsburgh, f ‘
where he introduced him to S$ 10 and his associates

who were in the same type Of business, At the request of

SAM MANNARINO and some of his associates, he took them on f
as clients and performed auditing and tax return services ‘
for them. _Through MANNARINO he became associated with
SABESTIAN JOHN LAROCCA, MIKE GENOVESE and ANTHO. IPEPI..
He also became acquainted with CHARLES TyMARGLIOTIT, then - f
Attorney and political power in Pennsylvania who’ is now
i—- deceased, Throug! TTT he took over the accounting for
thHe'Filben Corporation of Chicago, which was organized to
manufacture coin operated music machines, Although this

a § : gr ara) e
3° - Bureau (ce 92-2040) SOL Xa) REC- 3 42 - G a
~ Pittsburgh (92-235 MIKE GENOVESE) 3277, B- AS
(92-226) (SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA) SEP

92~ ANTHONY RIPEPI) 2 1958 :
92- SAM MANNARINO) eat - i
92-149 SEBASTIAN LAROCCA)

92-165 JOSEPH GYGLIOTTI)

92-82L0UIs com) via

137-2023)

Docld:32294679 Page 2


BA 92-137

M
se ator has been defunct for a long time, Mr, GOLDBERG made
other contacts which resulted in developing clients. For
example, in Baltimore he acquired the account, of the Cee Gee
sours\oote which was organized by JOSEPHMGIGLIOTTI and
C!

LOULSACOMI, When the Filben Company ran into“financial al
~““difrreurtiés, it resulted in an investigation by the Internal
Revenue Service, and a great deal of newspaper publicity was
given to alleged irregularities in the operation of this
busi S. Mc. GOLDBERG had been placed in a compromising
position by officials of this company and realized at that
time that he had been taken advantage of by MARGIOTTI and his
associates, He also realized that these men were engaging in
questionable activities and felt that if he continued his
association with them it could jeopardize his standing as an
accountant.

In about 1950, he decided to discontinue his relationship

with MARGIOTTI and his associates, He wrote registered letters
to MARGIOTTI, GENOVESE, RIPEPI and others, advising them he
would no longer handle their accounting. At that time he would
have discontinued his association with LAROCCA, except for the
fact that he was then doing acsounting for LAROCCA in connection
with some litigation involving most of LAMCCA's financial
interests, LAROCCA asked him to continue doing his accounting
work at least until litigation was completed. Actually,

this situation has continued and LAROCCA has become further
indebted to him, 50 that at present, LAROCCA owes him a
considerable amount of money for accounting fees, |

In the past several yeers, LAROCCA has entertained Mr, :
GOLDBERG at his residence for dinner and to meet his family. {
Therefore, in the latter vart of 1957, when visiting with '
LAROGCA, Mr, GOLDBERG invited him to attend the wedding of $
his son, which was to be held at Philadelphia. In February, j
1958, the wedding was held and LAROCCA appeared accompanied :
by ANTHONY RIPEPI. At this time, LAROCCA stated that his
wife was 111 and could not accompany him, Mr, GOLDBERG at
that time did not know that LAROCCA was wanted by the Govern-
ment or that there was any Federal Grand Jury Proceeding in
which LAROCCA wes involved,

He recalled that when he last visited with LAROCCA prior
to the wedding, LAROCCA was having some trouble with his ‘
throat, but at the wedding he did not notice any trouble in
this regard,-

-2-

Docld:32294679 Page 3


he.

_BA 92-137

emphatically stated that he has had no contact
ith LAFOCCA since the wedding in February, 1958, He
assured that if he has any contact with LAROCCA in the future
he will’ contact the FBI on a confidential basis, He stated
that he has every intention of cooperating fully with the
Government concerning LAHOCCA and concerning any matter in
which the Government may have an interest.

Mr, GCLDBERG stated that handling the accounting for coin
machine operators and others close to this type of business
has been a very small part of his accounting practice. He
stated that he still has some clients in this type of busi-
ness, but to his Imowledge none of them are numbers operators
or are engaged in illegal activities. ’

He stated that he contimies to represent ROY MC GINNIS, but |
has no other similar type cf account in Baltimore,

In the State of Maryland-he handles the accounts of Andrews
Vending Gompany, Glen Burnie,—Maryland,, which is operated

by ALBER' ULLEN and THOM NDREWS. This company operates
Stypes of coin machvnes in Anne Arundel County, Maryland.
He also represents, in an accounting capacity, ,the General
Amusement Company, which is cperated by_¢, WMHENDRICKS, —/@ .
Colonial Beach, Virginia, which also operates ‘coin machiness=
Both of these companies operate in counties where certain

forms of gambling ave permitted through use of coin machines.

Concerning LOUIS COMI, who currently one of the. top
hoodiums in the Baltimore ision, Mr, GOLDBERG stated that
he has had very little eontact’ with COMI personally, He
advised that ROSE OMEhandied most of the dealings for Cee
Gee Machine Company, which has been inactive for atout five

years. a pad
- comet
Mr, GOLDBERG recalled meeting JOSEPH GIGLIOTTI, who has been

identified as a former Pittsburgh racketeer currently operating
a night club in Dundalk, Maryland.

In the course of this interview, Mr. GOLDBERG requested that
his identity be concealed in reporting any information
furnished by nim, He assured of his desire to cooperate

-~3-

Docld:32294679 Page 4



BA 92-137

fully with the FBI in any investigation where he could be of
assistance,

Although Me. GOLDBERG has furnished no information of
particular importance, it is believed that recontact is
justified in an effort to further develop the friendly
attitude which he displayed when currently interviewed, It
is believed that Mr, GOLDBFRG would furnish specific informa-
tion on any matter if requested by this Bureau, It is
contemplated that he will be recontacted in the near future
ian an effort to develop him further as a PCI.

The Pittsburgh Division will be advised of any subsequent
information furnished by Mr, GOLDBERG concerning LAROCCA

or GENOVESE or any of the individuals in which the Pittsburgh
Office has an interest; however, since no further investiga-
ticn is outstanding in this office concerning the captioned
eases, these cases are hereby veiling considered RUC.

Docld:32294679 Page 5

