# docid-32293680-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10211-10456

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 105-86307-5

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

HILL, RICHARD W.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/15/1960

PAGES:

24

SUBJECTS :

DLH, ASSOC, BKG, RES, EMP, MED/PERS HIST, MIL SERV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

---

## Page 2

NY 105-39681

SECRETI

Concerning GERALD COOK, 360 west 23rd st.,

NYC, listed by SALEBE as

a reference, NY indices

reflect that GERALD COOK, a writer, is a former

SI subject of the NYO, Bureau file

100-182839; NY file

100-81435.

However, it is not

possible with the

information at hand, to determine if these GERALD

COOKs areeidentical. It is also noted that a GERALD

COOK was said to be accompaniest of LIBBY HOLMAN REYNOLDS

in 1952 and that a GERALD COOK, 360 west 23rd Street,

NYC, furnished an affidavit for SALEBE at the time

SALEBE petitioned for naturalization.

concerning RAOUL GELABERT, 63 East 1lth

St., NYC,

listed as a reference by SALEBE:

an investigation

(ABELARDO

GELABERTS SM-C, NY file 100-139898) was

conducted to ascertan if

RAOUL GELABERT was the husband

Of DOROTHY (INU), possibly, to GELABERT; SM-C, NY file

100-139584, without resolving the question.

Concerning DENNIS LYNN HARBER, it is noted

that he is the subject of a closed contact case entitled (

"DENNIS LYNN HARBER; IS-R", NY file 105-37990. HARBER

had also been in contact with KOVALEW but no interew

was recommended due to HARBER's history of mental

illness. It is noted that HARBER waS SALEBE's roommate

and was given by SALEBE as a reference. According to

EPSTEIN and FOREMANS NY Fl and NY I-3 respectively

in the report, SAlkBestold them at the party on

April 16, 1960,

that HARBER had contacted SALEBE from

Mexico City,

, requesting $100.00 for fare to NYC and

that he had told HARBER to "go to hell", that HARBER

had always been a lot of trouble to him. la Ma

concerning LIBBY HOLMAN REYNOLDS,

she

is an

SI subject of the New Haven Office, "ELIZABETH HOLMAN

1a SA-SET RENT 100 363345 Hen

RALPH HOLMES), with

100-12339; NY 100-103066.

It is noted that CHARLES GRAHAM

(NY T-5) attended a cocktail party given

REYNOLDS at

COVER PAGE

- B-

(и)

SECRET

91119175

---

## Page 3

SECRET

NY 105-39681

121 East bist St., NYC, at which he met KOVALEV and

KIRILYUK, and that SALEBE advised EPSTEIN that he (S

had attended parties at REYNOLDSEWith KOVALEV, MISHUKOV,

and a soviet known to him only as VADIM It appears(S

probable that the VADIM referred to by SALEBE is(5)

VADIM A. KIRILTUK] @(5)

ReNY airtel to the Bureau, 5/0,00, enclosed

a letterhead memorandum concerning the fact that SALEBE

Incorporated. This letterhead memorandum was

disseminated

locally to the 2nd District Office, OSI.

LEROY H. BARNARD, Plant protection Manager,

Lockheed Aircraft

Incorporated,

that his

AF 04(606)7400

(confidential)

AF 33(600) 38428

(34)

DECLASSiFIED pOR

AIR FORCE lETTER

DTD 11-24-47

(secret)

NO AS6O" - 4004 - K

(secret).

4-7-98

JFK)

SALEBE has access to classified material, under

the above contracts.

A copy of this report is being, disseminated

oSI, inasmuch as the

to the and District office interested agency is the

responsible agency and the

USAF .

COVER PAGE

- C -

SECRET

---

## Page 4

NY 105-39681

INFORMANTS

Identity of source

NY T-1

ANNETTE SYLVIA

EPSTEIN, PSI

SECRETI

Date Contacted

File Number where Located

1/28/60

134-4214 - 26

to SAS FRANKLIN B. TEETER

and RICHARD W. HILL

4/14/60

134-4214 - 35

to /ARTHUR H. SEIDEL and

RICHARD W. HILL

/4/19/60.

134-4214 A - 7

to SAS ARTHUR H. SEIDEL

and RICHARD W. HILL

used to document LEONID

KOVALEV] (5)

SAs of the FBI on duty

Ein a permanent observation

post in Springfield, (S

Massachusetts

NY. I-3

BURTON VAN HORN FOREMAN,

PSI

9/17/59

10/1/59

4/19/60

MY 26297s (s)

NY

GRAHAM

FORBES, PSI

134-4215 A - 5

to SAS JOHN C. HESSIN and

WILLIAM V. SCHMALTZ

134-4215 A - 7

(U,

to SAS ARTHUR H. SEIDEL

and RICHARD W. HILL

134-4215 A - 1

to SAS ARTHUR H. SEIDEL

and RICHARD W. HILI

used to document (YURIY

A. MISHUKOV J (5)

134-4551 - 2

Furnished

to SA FRANKLI

B. TEETER

COVER PAGE

- ID

SECRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

NY 105-39681

Identity of source

NY T-6

OLGA H. RYAN

23 Maple Ave.

Greenwich, Conn.

Confidential

Secretary to LIBBY

HOLMAN REYNOLDS

(by request)

Date Contacted

File Number Where Located

100-103066 - 77

T-7

FRANK SISEL

Administration office

Veterans Administration

Hospital, Kansas City,

Missouri

(by request)

105-37990 - 8

NY T-8

NeW Haven 245-S

used to document

LIBBY HOLMAN REYNOLDS

careful consideration has been given to the

sources concealed, and a T symbol was utilized in the report

in those instances where the identities of the sources

must be concealed.

The following confidential informants, who

are familiar with certain phases of CP activityes in the

NYC area and who advised during March, 1960, that they

had no pertinent information concerning SALEBE are as

FOLLOWS: (05001

Informant

SSNY_ 388

Date contacted

3/8/60

contacting Agent

SA LEROY SHEETS

SA LEROY

SHEETS (E)

COVER PAGE

SECRET

---

## Page 6

NY 105-39681

Informant

CSNY 1086

CSNY 1991

CSNY 384

CSNY

: 307

CSNY

972

CSNY 646

LEADS

NEW YORK

Date®

Contacted

3/8/60

3/8/60

3/8/60

3 8/60

3/9/60

3/17/60

ЗECREO

contacting Agent

SA DAVID RYAN

SA DAVID RYAN

SA JOHN A. HAAG'

SA JOHN A.

HAAG

SA JOHN A. HAAG

SA JOHN A. HAAG

* (w)

At New York, New YOrk

will request Bureau authority to interview

the soviety (k1(5)

ascertain the nature of his association with

COVER PAGE

F*

ZECBE!

SECRET

---

## Page 7

FD-201 (Rev. 9-23-58)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

Copy to:

OSI, 2nd District Office

CONFIDENTIAL

Office:

New York, New York

Report of:

Date:

RICHARD W. HILL

6/15/60

File Numbers New York 105-39681

Title:

AMERICO JOSEPH SALEBE

10-28-97

Character:

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X/

INTERNAL SECURITY - R

JFK)

Bureau 105-84265

(JFK)

S/8 MACHSR

V-21-94

# 211,320

Classlfied ty SeABIAlICL

Declassify on: OADR 3/20/85

Synopsis:

According to informants, SALE

BE, date Of birth 9/26/21,

àt Mompos, Barranquilla or Bolivar, ColombiaKas been

the company of LEONID A. KOVALEV, a Soviet Nationals

on numerous occasions SALEBE resides at 454 W.

22nd

St., NYC, and is employed as an Aircrait Electrician oy

Lockheed Aircraft Service International, Inc.?

Intemational Airport; this corporation has classified

USAF contracts and he has access to classified material.

Background, activities, associates, and description set

forth.

8-1280

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WARAL SHOWN

OTHERNISE

- P

CLASS.

&. EXT

REASON - FCIM

DAN RE RAVIEN

DETAILS:

BASIS OF INVESTIGATION

"This investigation is predicated upon information

fürnishedby NY I-l on January 28, 1959, that SALEBE

attended a party in

"August or september, 1958, at which

S) LEONID A. KOVALEV was present.

This party was given

by ANNETTE BERLY, a former Berlitz School Of Languages

English Teacher, at her residence,

128 West 73rd Street

New York City. SALEBE told Informant that he had seen

KOVALEY on several occasions as KOVALEV was ery

friendly with

SALEBE'S roommate, DENNIS HARBER

'SECRET

CONFES ENTIAL

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of any kind. It is the property of the FBl, and is a loan to your agency,

it and/or its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

16-74625-1

---

## Page 8

SECRETI

NY 105-39681

CONFIENTIAL

was employed at.the United

ea at the United NatIons See seet Nationals

Translator

19591Y 12 as that To man September 18, 05J

intelligence activities. 3)

BACKGROUND OF SUBJECT

Birth

On March 30, 1960, IC DANIEL J. CURTIN examined

the records of the Board of

Elections for the Borough

of Manhattan, New York City.

Thesesrecords reflect

SALEBE's date of birth as September 26, 1921, at

Barranquilla, Colombia.

on May 3, 1960, LEROY H. BARNARD, Plant protection

Manager, Lockheed Aircraft Service International, Incorporated,

New York International Airport, made available SALEBE'S

employment record.

This record reflects SALEBE was born

on September 26, 1921, at Mompos, Colombia, to JOSE

SALEBE- and MARIA SENIOR DE SALEBE.

Marital Status

The records of the Board of Elections for the

Borough of. Mannattan, New York city,

J. CURTIN on March 30, 1900, reflect that in making

examined by IC NanDi

permanent registration to vote in 1957, SALEBE indicated

that

he was single.

Relatives

on May 3, 1960, LEROY H. BARNARD, Plant

Protection Manager, Lockheed Aircraft Service International,

Incorporated, New York International Airport, made

available employment records of the subject.

On an

application for employment, SALEBE listed the following

relatives:

2

SECRETI

CONFSSENTIAE

---

## Page 9

SECRET

NY 105-39681

ICONN

INTIAL

"visiting relatives". SALEBE indicated he resided at

colombia,

Activities

on september F7, 1959. NY T-3 advised that

VAN HORN OREMAN, a cosunel?

university Japanese Language Instructor, who resides

at 100 charemont Avenue Apartment LaNeW

, My.

gave a party at his residence in June, 1950,

informant heard that IVAN Y. FEDORCHENKO, LEONID A.

KOVALEV, DENNIS HARBER, anC

AMERICO SALEBE attended S

this party and there were approximately 30 to 40

persons present. *The informant also learned

KOVALEV was very friendly with HARBER. So

IVAN YAKOVLEVICH FEDORCHENKO,

soviet National,

the First secretary, Soviet United Nations Delegation,

680 park Avenue, New York City.

(3)

in october 1,

1959,. NY

T-3 stated that he

learned that HARBER and SALEBE resided at 454 west

22nd Street, New York City, Telephone CH 3-7200 in

1958;

he also learned that KOVALEV had visited their (S)

residence y

on

January 28, 1960, NY I-I advised that he had

learned that HARBER, a former English Teacher at the

Berlitz School of Languages, RoCKeleLler Center,

NEw

York City had been shown a good deal of interest oy

BORIS S. IVANOV and FEDORCHENKQ when they were Berlitz

(5)

English students* NYT-1 alsg

roommate was AMERICO SALEBE.

learned that HARBER'S

BORIS SEMENOVICH IVANOV,

a Soviet National,

was a Counselor of

the soviet United Nations Delegation,

680 park Avenue, New York Cityr

R(S)

former soviet Intelligence (5 J

- 7-

CONFSENTIALI

SECRET

---

## Page 10

SECRETI

NY 105-39681

CONCAN

ANTIAL

Intelligence officer whom he had seen at Moscow < SJ

between 1945 and 1950.

le advised IVANOV's name)was CS.

not familiar to whim and he could furnish no additional

data regarding this person.

e Persong (g1(5)

XAlso on January 28, 1960, NY I-l advised

that he had learned that ANNETTE EBERLY, a former

Berlitz teacher,

gave a party in August

or September,

1958, at her residence, 128 west I3rd Street, New

MISHUKOV and BORIS I.

(5)

approximately

50 persons at the party.

The informant

could furnish no other pertinent information regarding

this party.

BORIS IVANOVICH BUKATIY, a SoViet National,

was employed at the united Nations Secretariat as

a Translator-Irainee (en(5)

YURIY ALEKSÈEVICH MISHUKOVis a Soviet National

employed by the United Nations secretariat as a Translator.

on May 27, 1959, NY I-4 advised that MISHUKOV has

engaged in intelligence activities. @(5)

on April 14, 1960, NY T-1 advised that he had

learned that SALEBE is employed by Lockheed at

Idlewild Airport..

summer of 1958.

The informat also learned that this

woman

had contacted SALEBE on April 13, 1900, in grder

to

arrange another party to which several SovietsS

be invited.

The informant also learned that

this woman planned to visit Russia]at one time, buts)

never did so.

on April 19, 1960, the informant stated

that he had learned

that this woman's name is LIBBY

HOLMAN REYNOLDS.

-8-

CONFIDENTIAD

SECRED

---

## Page 11

SECRET

NY 105-39681

CON IN

In June, 1959, NY T-S advised that he was

present at a cocktail party given by LIBBY HOLMAN

REYNOLDS at 121 East olst Street,

barty the informant stated he met. tee dorieStational (5)

whom he subsequently identified from photographs as

LEONID A. KOVALEV and VADIM A. KIRILYUK] & (5)

(VADIM ALEKSANDROVICH KIRILYUK, a Soviet

National,

an article entitled

Spies", appeared in the "New York Mirror", a daily

New York newspaper..Accogding to this article,

Ambassador HEVY CABOT. TOPC disclosed to the United

Nations Security Council on

May 24, 1900, that 11

Soviet espionage agents hadbeen expelled from the

United states

_since STALIN's death.

Among the 1l

contacted American in Boston with

request lor data l

concerning cryptographic machines/ used by the United

Sates

Army.

Fired by United Nations]and left for L=J

Russia.

April 19, 1960, NY I-I advised that

HOREMAN

that

present.

S) KOVALEV warmly and asked him howl "GEORGE" was, referring

tO MISHUKOV. KOVALEV said that MISHUKOViwas to havels

CS

The informant stated

that SALEBE attended the party with

his present roommate,

BILL (LNU), a Colombian NatIonal.

Associates

ColombiA

City -

GERALD COOKS

360 west 23rd street, New York

CooK was given as a reference by SALEBE on his

- 9-

CONSEN TIA:

SECRED

---

