# docid-32293102-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10210-10378

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-81285-38

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CV

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/22/1960

3

REW, REQ, RETURN TO US, LTR, REL, SOURCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

10

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

1.0'

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

3/22/60

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC

CLEVELAND

(105-81285)

(105-3792)

ROBERT EDWARD WEBSTER

IS - RUSSIA

(00:. CV)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Enclosed for the Bureau are five copies of a letterhead memorandum

concerning captioned subject.

CV T-1 Is NICHOLAS GRAZIANO,

Treasurer, Rand Development Corporation.

on 3/22/60, Mr. GRAZIANO provided an autostatic copy of the

letter of C. E. WEBSTER, dated 3/19/60, addressed to Mr. H. J.

RAND.

He also provided

the transcripof a 12 noon broadcast

on Cleveland Radio Station KYW concerning the subject and his

desire to return to the United States as embodied in his letter

to his parents requesting their aid in effecting his return.

Mr. GRAZIANO at this time stated that Mr. RAND in the near future

plans to return to Moscow, Russia, for the ostensible purpose

of liquidating the Rand Development Corporation operation there;

however, primarily he will be going there to cement relations

with certain business contacts which he developed pursuant

to his operation with the U.S. Air Force.

GRAZIANO stated that on receipt of C. E. WEBSTER's letter, he

contacted the U.S. Air Force Intelligence locally and they stated

the matter should be left up to the FBI, however, they would

appreciate being kept advised of developments.

No further investigation appears warranted at CV, however,

CV will accept all information furnished by GRAZIANO and

RAND and advise the Bureau in form suitable for dissemination.

GRAZIANO's identity in enclosed letter-

Bureau (Encls. 5) (RM)

head memo is concealed by his request.

- Cleveland

JFC/emr

AGENCY STAle, CIA, 05/BEG.

105-8128

REQ. NEG'D

• 75%

38

Elem 3 - 23-68

0-146,00r+t,0

MAR 23,

OKSH

Approv

APR 1

pecial Agent in Charge

1560

---

