# docid-32576626

## Page 1

FD-26 (Rev 5-1-

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INV_STIGATION

REPCRTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

PHOENIX

TITLE, OF CASE

NEW YORK CITY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

7/20/64 - 5/5/65

LA COSA NOSTRA

5/7/65

REPORT MADE BY

SA J. RICHARD BUTTS

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR -CONSPIRACY

TYPED BY

ijc :

REFERENCES:

Bureau airtel to New York City dated 4/16/65.

New York City airtel to Bureau dated 4/28/65.

- RUC -

ENCLOSURES:

TO BUREAU

1. Original and one copy of LHM characterizing

informants not previously characterized.

TO NEW YORK

1.

One copy of LHM characterizing informants

not previously characterized.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

- Bureau (92-6054) (Enc-8) (RM)

92-6054-1065

2 - New York City (92-2300)

(Enc. 1) (RM)

1 - Phoenix (92-278)

3.01 040

A

COVER PAGE

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY..

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD...

HOW FWD.

SY..

CG. 146, Ocirzizal Disision.

Organized Crime and fuctereorin.

Section, linem

2 MAY I0 1965

NOTATIONE

VINE

STAT. SECT.

U.5. GOVERNHENT PRINTING OFFICE

18-76324-1

REG 47

DocId: 32576626 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PX 92-278

JRB/ijc

INFORMANTS

IDENTITY

PX T-1 is PX 710-C

PX T-3 is PX 696-C-TE

PX T-4 is CLYDE PASCH,

Group Supervisor,

O.C.D.,

Internal Revenue Service

PX T-5 is Lt. WILLIAM GILKINSON (NA)

Intelligence Unit, PD

PX T-6 is Capt. RICHARD HARRINGTON,

Special Investigations,

PD

PX T-10 is LA 4448-C-TE

PX T-11 is LA 4335-C-TE -

PX T-12 is MI 645-C*

PX T-13 is PX 713-PC

PX T-14 is PX 742-PC

PX T-15 is PX 752-PC

WHERE LOCATED

Tucson, Arizona

Tucson, Arizona

Tucson, Arizona

Phoenix, Arizona

B* - COVER PAGE

DocId: 32576626

Page

2

---

## Page 3

UNIT

Iri' Reply, Please Refer to

File No. PX 92-278

STATES DEPARTMENT OFLUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Phoenix, Arizona

May 7,

1965

LA COSA NOSTRA

Characterization of informants in the report of

SA J. RICHARD BUTTS dated May 7, 1965 at Phoenix, Arizona:

PX T-11 is LA 4335-C-TE who is in a position to

furnish information concerning LA COSA NOSTRA

activities

generally and the activities of CHARLES JOSEPH BATTAGLIA, JR.

PX T-12 is MI 645-C* who is in a position to furnish

information concerning LA COSA NOSTRA activities generally.

PX T-13 is PX 713-PC who is in a position to furnish

information concerning JOSEPH BONANNO and CHARLES JOSEPH

' BATTAGLIA, JR.

PX T-14 is PX 742-PC who is in a position to furnish

information concerning the financial affairs of CHARLES

JOSEPH BATTAGLIA, JR.

PX T-15 is PX 752-PC who is in a position to furnish

information concerning the financial affairs of CARL B. SIMARI,

CHARLES JOSEPH BATTAGLIA, JR., and some of their associates.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and

is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your

agency.

DocId: 32576626

Page

---

## Page 4

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. PX 92-276

TED STATES DEPARTMENT C

jUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Phoenis;

Arizona

Hay

• 7,

490a

LA COSA NOSTRA

in the report of

PX T-Il 16' LA 4335-C-TE sho is in a position to

furnish information concerning LA COSA NOSTRA

activities

generally and the activities of CHARLES JOSEPH BATTAGLIA, JB.

PX T-12 1s MI 645-C* tho is in a position to furnish

infornation concerning LA COSA NOSTRA activitios generally.

PL. Tol3 1s PL 713-PC uho is in a position to

furnish

information concerning JOSEPH BONANNO and CHARLES JOSEPH

BATTAGLIA, JR.

PX T-14 1s PX 742-Pc who is in a position to furnish

information concerning the financial affalrs of CHARLES

JOSEFE BATTACLE,

JEe:

DX. T-15 1s PX 752-PC who is in a position to furnish

intornation concerning the financial affairs of CARL B. SILARI,

CHARLES JOSEPT BATTAGLIA, JB,, and sone of their associates.

This docunent contains neither reconnendations nor

conclusions of the rel.

It le the property of the FBI and

is loaned to your agency; 1t

and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32576626

Page 4

---

