# docid-32313401

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/14/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10330-10012

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-107261-1108

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DN

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

06/08/1965

30

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

¡ DocId: 32313101

Page 1

---

## Page 2

i 0263 (ReV. 1-1-09)

REPORTING OFFICE

DENVER

TITLE OF CASE

"MINUTEMEN"

• LAORNATION COMTADURS

145892 28O3RDDCAL

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

KANSAS CITY

DATE

6/8/65

REPORT MADE BY

JOSEPH C. LEARNED

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

4/7 - 5/28/65

INFORMATION CONCERNING (IS)

TYP

it

REFERENCE: Report of SA JOSEPH C. LEARNED at Denver dated 4/8/65.

• P.

LEADS

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

DENVER

AT DENVER, COLORADO

Will report results of investigation of individuals

who are active or suspected of being active in Minutemen

activities in Colorado and Wyoming.

ALBUQUERQUE - INFORMATION

Copy furnished Albuquerque because of information

received from MARY C

BERRETT, Santa Fe, New Mexico.

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

- Bureau (62-107261) (RM) (AM)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

62-1107261-1108

REG- 3

REO- 34

1

JUN 11 1965

STAM

COPIES CONTINUED NEXT PAGE:

Agency

Bequart Baed.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

50 JUN

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

ONI

05I

ATTL

16.

TSUJ

Notations

RAO(06D)

DocId: 32313401 Page 2

---

## Page 3

'DN 62-1494

COPIES CONTINUED:

1 - Secret Service, Denver (RM)

1 = G-2, Chicago (RM) (AM)

1 - INTC, Denver (RM)

1 - OSI, Denver (RM)

1 - ONI, Chicago (RM)

2 - Los Angeles (INFO)

3 - Kansas City (62-7797)

1 - San Antonio (INFO)

1 - Albuquerque (INFO)

3 - Denver (62-1494)

sfo

LEADS CONTINUED:

LOS ANGELES - INFORMATION

Copies furnished Los Angeles as report includes information

regarding MICHAEL RAYES.

SAN ANTONIO - INFORMATION

Copy furnished San Antonio because of information per-

taining to NAOMI ATKINS and C. B. TINSLEY, who are from McAllen,

Texas.

INFORMANTS

SOURCE

DN T-1

PSI HENRY RECEN

LOCATION

134-472A

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32313101 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DN 62-1494

SOURCE '

LOCATION

DN T 2

DN 345-S

134-459A

ADMINISTRATIVE

An extra copy of this report is being furnished

the

Bureau for dissemination to Secret Service, Washington, D.C.

This report has been classified confidential since

information from DN I-l and I-? could reasonably result in

identification of a confidential informant of continuing

ContAde 21

value and compromise the effectiveness thereof, which could

adversely affect the

national defense.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32313401

Page 4

---

## Page 5

VITED STATES DEPARTMENT

JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.

CON

EIIIAL

Copy to:

1 • Secret Service, Denver

1 = Ga2, Chicago

1 - INTC, Denver

Report of:

Dote:

JOSEPH C. LEARNED

6/8/65

Field Office File #:

62-1494

Title:

"MINUTEMEN"

1 = OSI, Denver

1 = ONI, Chicago

Ofice: Denver, Colorado

Bureau File #: 62-107261

Character:

Synopsis:

INFORMATION CONCERNING (INTERNAL SECURITY)

155191S 9803RDD CAL

119-28-90

DAVID EUGENE PARSONS is distributing Minutemen (MM) publication

"On Target." Source reports that MM literature is being distri

buted from Mexico, Mo., and that P.O. Box 63, Centralia, Mo. has

been designated to receive correspondance from MM. HARVEY BARBE

reported that he suspected MM activity on the part of individuals

in Monte Vista, Colo.

coup red m

BARBE stated that there were a number of

individuals belonging to MM around the San Luis Valley in Colo.

MILTON GODFREY MYERS, Fire Chief, Salida, Colo, furnished infor

mation about MM activities of GLEN AYERS

and LONNIE COUCH, Salida,

Colo. GLEN AYERS, Municipal Judge, Salida, stated that he joined

MM in July, 1963, and made $5.00 contribution, but wants nothing

to do with

MM at the present time. LONNIE E. COUCH, Salida, ad-

vised he has received correspondance and literature

from MM but is not a member thereof. COUCH advised he met

publications

MICHAEL RAYES of Los Angeles, Calif. while visiting in Monte

Vista, Colo. NAOMI ATKINS, Monte Vista, advised she was formerly

connected with the magazine

"American Mercury" and as a result

thereof received considerable literature from conservative

organizations, including literature of MICHAEL RAYES. ATKINS

stated that RAYES visited with her in April, 1965, and that she

was aware of his prophesies of an economic collapse in 1965, and

RAYES' suggestion that conservatives should come to San Luis

Valley, Colo. C. B. TINSLEY advised he was a member of MM at

McAllen, Tex,, but is not a member at the present time. MICHAEL

RAYES, in'a leaflet dated 2/25/65 mailed from Los Angeles, Calif.,

CONFII

ENTIAL

GRO

1

This document contatns

neither recommendations nor conclus

exclud

from autonatio

ions of the FBI. It is the

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed putside your agency.

propert

Foungrading

FBand Is loaned to

declassification

DocId: 32313401 Page

---

## Page 6

DN 62-1494

JCL: mf

Re DAVID EUGENE PARSONS

DN I-1 advised on April 8, 1965,

that DAVID EUGENE

PARSONS furnished an envelope which bore the return address of

"Exea tive Offices, 1555 Howard Street, Chicago, Illinois 60626.

The following is printed on the cover

of the envelope:

"Information about your income enclosed."

Included in the

envelope was the March, 1965, issue of "On Target."

DN T-1 advised on May 27, 1965, that DAVID EUGENE

PARSONS furnished the April 1, 1965, issue of the publication

"On Target."

JOHN KERR, Public Service Company, Denver, Colorado,

advised May 27, 1965, that PARSONS has been removed from his

job as trouble shooter for the Public Service Company and is

presently assigned to work in the Public Service Company plant.

KERR stated that PARSONS does not have access to any public or

private buildings in the City of Denver.

3

DocId: 32313401

Page

---

## Page 7

DN 62-1494

IN 1=2 on May 13, 1965, furnished a letter received

from "Minutemen" #910 which

was mailed at Mexico, Missouri.

This "Minutemen" member receives correspondence at P. O. Box 63,

Centralia, Missouri.

The

following is quoted from this letter:

"Under a new ruling all members both old and new?

have been put on a provisional basis, until they have

completed this condensed but effective training course.

Our own worst mistakes were made in our early preoc

cupation with guerrilla warfare and by-passed some of

these fundamentals, i.e. intelligence, security,

propaganda, etc.

"A number of specialist' in our organization has

compiled this course designed to make each member

taking it, a more effective member and a possible

future underground leader.

The costs of

this

5

part course is $1.00 for each

part, (or 'Phase').

With the course you will receive books, as part of

the recommended reading. There is NO extra charge

for these books as they are included.. On completion

of the course, you will be given specific assignments

depending on your interests and appititude."

Source

also furnished

I an 8-page leaflet entitled

"'Minutemen' Training Program."

Source advised that this program involved actual

experience or "on-the-job training" by carrying out assignments

under supervision of experienced operators.

Source reported this training program is designed to

give the members

of

"Minutemen" basic knowledge and practice in

intelligence, security and propaganda.

Source advised that "Minutemen" continues to distribute

the 20-page leaflet,

"The

'Minutemen,'

America's Last Line of

Defense Against Communism"'

4

DocId: 32313401 Page 7

---

