# docid-32328771

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90079-10029

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 165-17-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NO

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

10/31/1961

30

NOLA PRINTING COMPANY

JOSEPH PORETTI

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32328771

Page 1

---

## Page 2

3-14-551

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

- NOLA PRINTING COMPANY

DATE

10/31/61

REPORT MADE BY

SA STUART E. SCHEER

CHARACTER OF. CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

(9/7/61 to 10/26/62

TYPID UY

bal

ITHI

BYNONSIS.

REFERENCES:

Report of SA STUART E. SCHEER dated, 9/5/61 at New Orleana,

entitled,

"NOLA PRINTING COMPANY - IGA-WS.

Butel to

New Orleans, 9/15/61.

New Orleans teletype to Chicago, Little Rock, and Pittsburg,

9/20/61.

New Orleans airtel to the Bureau,

10/4/61

Bureau airtel to New Orleans, 10/16/672-69PIES50

SITEL

i Para

-

time sides a ai

MILD

7.

BY

LEADS:

BOSTON, CHICAGO, LITTLE ROCK, SAVANNAH, and PITSBURGE

DIVISIONS:

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

One copy of this report 1s being sent to each

of these offices for information to show contact by the

subject this case and individuals in each of these offices

A SPECIALARGE"

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BALOW

165-19-

8

REG- 21

°X. -102

Bureau

Boston (Info)

1

Chicago. (Info)

-

Little Rock (Info)

Savannah (Info)

- Pittsburgh( Info)

3

- New Orleans (165-2)

Occ:

AAG Criminal Divicion

form 0-6 AL

30 NOV 6 1961

COVER PAGE

PROPERTY OF FBI.- This report is loared to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loa

57 NOV 171061

DocId: 32328771

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO (165-2)

Mr. OLSEN advised on September 18, 1961 that

on September 14, 1961, PORETTO had told him

that he was

going to have all the

telephones removed; however, he has

not called back to date, to have the three position

rotary discontinued.

HOWARD D. BAUTSCHE, PCI, New Orleans,

advised

SA J. DAWSON VAN EPS that Nola Printing Company discontinued

its wire service to bookmakers on September 13, 1961.

He

knew of no plans to re-establish the service but said

that a possibility existed that bookmakers in the New

Orleans area might be furnished with the racing results

from local tracks. He described these tracks as Jefferson

area Might seestabllat

Downs in Jefferson Parish, and the New Orleans Fair

Grounds.

He advised that the racing season at Jefferson

Downs was to open on the night of September 19, 1961 and

he had not been advised whether or not the Nola Printing

wire service would furnish the results.

He stated that it was his opinion that the

racing results at the Fair Grounds would be available

when the season opened.

He explained that It 1s comparatively

simple to get these results inasmuch as the track 1s

surrounded by buildings on the outside of the track and

an observer could watch the races from one of these buildings

and furnish the results to Nola Printing.

He stated that if he did not receive the results

that bettors dislike making a bet and having to wait until

results are published in

a newspaper.

C

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32328771

Page 3

---

## Page 4

NO (165-2)

On October 24, 1961, RAYMOND ROLLING, PCI, New

Orleans, advised SA FURMAN G. BOGGAN that JOSEPH TROVATO,

also known as JOE DOYLE, Is presently employed as a

cashier at the lown and Country Motel, 1225 Airline High-

way Metairie, Louisiana, for $00.00 a week.

On October 26, 1961, HOWARD D. BAUTSCHE, PCI,

advised SA J. DAWSON VAN EPS that he has

heard that the Nola Printing Company is selling out and

that the whole plant is to be disposed of.

FcI stated

that he considered his source

of this

information to be

rellable.

D *

CoVER PAGE

DocId: 32328771

Page

---

## Page 5

NO (165-2)

In September 10, 1961, CHARLES D'AMICO,

an admitted bookmaker, 703 Third Street, Alexandria,

Louisiana, advised SA JOHN B. HONEYCUTT that on

September 13, 1961, the day the Federal Anti-Gambling

law was signed by the President, Nola Printing company,

who had been furnishing him race-wire service,

ceased furnishing information and there was no

mention made by anyone from Nola Printing Company

as to any future plans of theirs to furnish wire

service in the future.

On September 20, 1961, HILLARY J. GAUDIN,

Attorney, Hibernia Bank

Building, New Orleans,

Louisiana, advised SA REGIS L. KENNEDY that he 1s

the attorney for the Nola Printing Company,

He

identified JOSEPH ALBERT PORETTO as one of

• the

partners of Nola Pringing Company, He stated that

Nola Printing Company was in the

business of

disseminating

race results of horse races but

ceased operation as a race-wire service on

September 13, 1961, after passage of Federal Legis-

lation pertaining to the Interstate Transmission of

Wagering Information.

On September 20, 1961 the Little Rock Division

advised that PCI, JUNE LYTLE stated that Nola

Printing Company

stopped disseminating race-wire

service

to Little Rock, Arkansas on September 8 or 9,

1961.

9

DocId:32328771

Page 5

---

