JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

4/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10225-10302 Hs
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: —92-2717-1259
: Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: HEGARTY, EDWARD D.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: — 08/20/1964
PAGES: 185
SUBJECTS :
ABR, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, GAMBLING ACT, B/F INT, RES,
i TRA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
_RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 04/21/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENT'S : RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 1A

vl
Docld:32299522 Page 1

267


a

PH 92-4)

“To Newark £2) > Two eopies of a letterhead. memo
setting for ormation received from highly confidential
Sources concerning the activities “of. ANGELO BRUNO,

To New York (2) ~ Two copies of a letterhead
memo setting forth information received from highly
confidential sources ‘concerning the activities of
ANGELO ‘BRUNO,

LEADS

. MIAMI, NEWARK AND NEW YORK OFFICES
—— YORK OFFICES

: a Two Copies. of this report are being sent Miami,
Newark, atid New York because these offices ‘conduct

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA
—_— EE ELDATA

» The following information was obtained from
PH 614-C-TE, and.is of Such a sensitive nature that it is
not being ineluded in the body. of this report:

Money

On 3/31/64, informant advised that ANGELO BRUNO
gave RALPH SCHWARTZ $2000 in $10.00 bilis, which were
exchanged by SCHWARTZ for $100 bilis at the Broad Street
Trust Company, 8th and Christian Streets, Philadelphia,
On the same date BRUNO gave RALPH SCHWARTZ $3000 in
$10.00 bills, which were exchanged by SCHWARTZ at the
First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, 7th and
Porter Streets; Philadelphia,

On 3/18/64, BRUNO gave RALPH SCHWARTZ $2000 in
$20.00 bills ana SCHWARTZ raised them to $1500 in $100
bills, and $500 in $50.00 bills at the Broad Street Trust
Company. :

- Be '
COVER PAGE

Docld:32299522 Page 2


a
H eee

PH 92-444

3/19/64, ‘BRUNO gave RALPH: SCHWARTZ $2000 “in
$20.00 pitts, which were elevated to $100 bills atthe
Broad Street Trust Company.

: On 6/16/64, BRUNO gave RALPH SCHWARTZ $10,000
in small bills ‘te be raised to bills of higher denomina-
tion. Bills were exchanged as follows:

1. $1000 in $1.00 and $5.00 denominations were
exchanged at Beneficial. Savings and Loan Association;
Broad Street and Snyder Avenue, Philadelphia.

2. $2000 in $10.00 bills were exchanged for
$100 bills at the Pennsylvania Saving Fund Society.

“3. $2000 in $10.00 bills were exchanged for
$100 bills at the Broad Street Trust Company, 8th and
Christian Streets.

$5000 in $50.00, $20.00, and $10,00
dicsimtna steve were exchanged at the Broad Street Trust
Company for a Treasurer's check in the name of ANGELO
BRUNO's attorney, THOMAS MC BRIDE,

BEN GOLOB

0n’5/23/64, ANGELO BRUNO told PH 614-c-TE
that GOLOB regrets having left the Philadelphia. area to
live in’ the Miami, Fla., area. BRUNO stated that when
GOLOB was employed by him as Manager of the Garden State
Vending Company, GOLOB was paid $200 per week; $50.00 for
expenses; a car; and 40g of the business, ef
On 5/28/64, PH 614-C-TE advised that ANGELO
BRUNO received a letter from BEN 'GOLOB, which was addressed
. to BRUNO's office manager, RALPH SCHWARTZ, The letter
‘ indicated that NORMAN FROMKIN told GOLOB that business,
in the Dominican Republic ‘was bad, and he refused to put
GOLOB on the payroll. The letter stated that ON oor

-¢c-
COVER PAGE

DocId:32299522 Page 3



PH 92-444

and MONK are collecting coins from-the machines. for FROMKIN
and are stealing between $300-and $400 per week. In
addition, FROMKIN has slot machines.at Coney Island, as
well as other locations throughout the City. of Santo
Domingo. FROMKIN told. GOLOB he is now required to pay
$800 ‘more per month to the Dominican Republic in order

to renew his yearly contraet to operate Coney Island.

GOLOB indicated he was returning to the United States in

@ week and desired to. see BRUNO.. :

Travel

On 3/31/64, ANGELO BRUNO, accompanied by
NICHOLAS PICCOLO, léft Penn Jersey Vending Company at
11:50 a.m, “BRUNO used the automobile of RALPH SCHWARTZ,
according to PH 614-C-TE. Informant again observed
SCHWARTZ' automobile at 12:20 p.m; on /1/64.. The
odometer reflected that the automobile had traveled eA
223.3 miles while BRUNO had it in his possession.

DR, ARISTIDE MANOPULO, Central Bureau, Criminal
Division, Italian National Police, Rome, Italy, advised
on 12/16/63 that ANGELO BRUNO has been deelared undesirable
by Italian Police Authorities and would not be permitted

to re-enter Italy (Go, Na )
Concerning FBI’

PH 614~C-TE advised on 7/9/64 that he observed
two Agents of the FBI known to him Speaking with ANGELO
BRUNO in the vicinity of 8th and Christian Streets. About
20 minutes later ANGELO BRUNO, in the presence of
informant, was asked by COLUMBIA MAIORIELLO, wife of
ALFONSO MATORIELLO, if the Agents had been looking for a
"note." BRUNO said "No" in response to -COLUMBIA's
question, and went on to tell PH 614-c-TE and COLUMBIA
that the President of the United. States takes money,
the senators take money, the Judges take money, but he
said no FBI Agents take money, and that the Agents

=D =
COVER PAGE

Xe

Docld:32299522 Page 4

pos ieee ae


PH 92-444

CF

Ce

He said that in America, the FBI

"is the only people" who would not take money. He went on
to say that you could accuse the FBI of anything else,

INFORMANTS.

Symbols have been used only-where necessary.

PH. T-1
PH T-2
PH T-3

PH Tad
PH T~5

PH T-6
PH T-7

PH T-8

ES

used for PH 614-c-TE to provide
ause of his sensitive nature and
contact with BRUNO,

PH 614-¢-TR,
Contacted by SA JOSEPH A,VERICA

PH 614-c-TE,
Contacted by SA JOSEPH.A.VERTICA

PH 614~¢-TE,
Contacted by SA JOSEPH A.VERICA

OS pr a1oh-c¥an)

cS NY 1 :
(Dun and Bradstreet,
Contacted by Ic WILLIAM

°

NY 4263-pc,
Contacted' by SA WILLIAM J,
CRUMLEY, JR

PH 665-c-TE,
Contacted by SA FREDERICK T,
HOULIHAN

PH 672-c-z,
Contacted by SAS J. + ROBERT
PEARCE and EDWARD D, HEGARTY

-E-
COVER PAGE

DocId:32299522 Page 5


PH 92-44
PH T-9
PH T-10

PH T~11

T-12

7-13
TH14

HES og

1-15

PH T-16
PH T-17
PH T-18
PH T-19
PE T-20

PH T-21

WILLIAM SCHETTER
(By request),

Contacted by SA JOHN F, PHELAN,JR,

PH 614-C-TE,
Contacted by SA JOSEPH A, VERICA

DAVID MALONE,

Former Assistant Commissioner,
Philadelphia Police Department,
Contacted by SA DAVID ®, WALKER

Legal Attache,
Rome, Italy

PH 571-C*

PH 599-C-TE
Contacted by SA DAVID E, WALKER

PH 699-C,

Contacted by SAS MAX D, BROWN
and JOHN F, PHELAN, JR.

MM 837-C#

MM 897-Pc

PH 623-c#

PH 591-c#.

PH 677-Pc,
Contacted by SA JOSEPH A. VERICA

HERBERT HORAN,

Chairman of the Board,

Broad Street Trust Company

(By request),

Contacted by SA JOSEPH A, VERICA

-F-
COVER: PAGE

Docld:32299522 Page 6


(eee

‘appointment - BRUNO. kept while’ he was in the ‘company

PH T1 advised on a March 5, 1964, that _BRUNO
had an appointment during the afternoon: with 5S, which

TURCO of Vineland, Neode

PH T-1 advised on March 28, 1964, that he learned
from GEORGE KATZ, former: manager of prizefighter CHARLES SONNY

_ LISTON, that two and onewhalf. per cent: of LISTON's share of his

fight proceeds goes to Camden attorney SAM AVENA;*. Subsequent

to the LISTON-PATTERSON ‘bout, a new contract was negotiated

and SAM AVENA’ from that date on received five per cent of LISTON's
received.” rather: than the two and one-half per cent previously
received.

PH T+2 advised on April 3, 1964, that SALVATORE
AVENA had made efforts during the’ day to contact ANGELO BRUNO,
AVENA was unsuceessful as. fap as the ‘Informant recalled, :

PH T-2 advised on April 8,.1964, that SALVATORE AVENA
met in the rear room of ALFONSO MATORIELLO's barber shop at:
Eighth and Christian Streets with ANGELO BRUNO, IGNAZIO DENARO,
and ALFREDO IEZZI,. ‘Subsequently, DENARO and IEZZI ‘departed,
leaving ‘BRUNO’ and’ AVENA to talk privately.’ Informant stated
AVENA arrived at approximately. 4215 and ‘departed ” at approximately

‘6:05 pam.

PH T-4 advised on April 29, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO
and (FNU) MARGOLIS met with SALVATORE AVENA in AVENA's Camden,
N. J.; office, MARGOLIS was desoribed by PH T-4-as-a person
associated with SONNY LISTON; hence, it. would appear this person
Wass in, fact, SAM MARGOLIS, who is a part-owner of SONNY LISTON's
contract.

-15-

Docld:32299522 Page 7


C ¢

PH 92-Mdd
(2)

PH T-2 advised on April 29, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO
had made an appointment with SAM AVENA to meet with AVENA
in AVENA's Camden, N. J., office,

PH T-2 advised on May 21, 1964, that SAM AVENA
attempted to contact ANGELO BRUNO and was unsuccessful in
his efforts, :

PH T-3 advised on July 27, 1964, that SALVATORE AVENA,
accompanied by SAMUEL MARGOLIS, visited the Friendly Bar at
Elghth and Washington Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa., for the purpose
of meeting with ANGELO BRUNO, PH 1-3 stated that this meeting
did not take place becauge BRUNO had departed from the bar
prior to their arrival,

1a:aXevERONA

WI
_.2830 South Eighth Street

__ Philadelphia; Pa. ; .
PH T-2 advised on April 29, 1964, that FRANK NARDUCCL
wanted to borro ,000 from ANGELO BRUNO for the purpose of
buying out. WILLIE ts interest. in the liquor. license for
the American Legion Gold Star Post, which AVERONA operates
at Eighth and Federal Streets or at Eighth and Wharton Streets,

Philadelphia, Pa. BRUNO on this occasion refused to loan
NARDUCCI the required money.

BARNEY BROOKS

- Philadelphia, Pa,

PH T~3 advised on June 9, 1964, ANGELO BRUNO attended
the wedding reception of JERRY BROOKS, who 1s the son of BARNEY
BROOKS, The reception was held at the 2-4 Club, Philadelphia,
Pa, PH T-3 stated that MAX WEISBERG was also present at the
reception, aswere SAMUEL HOFFMAN, JEFF NEWMAN, and AL SILVERBERG,
As BRUNO was leaving the reception, PH T-3 observed FRANK
MATTEO arriving. BRUNO departed at approximately 3:30 p.m,
from the reception because he was expecting CHARLES COSTELLO
to visit him at his residence,

~16-

Docld:32299522 Page 8


VICTOR BRUNO As a brother of ANGELO, BRUNO.

PH co) advised on June 22, 1964, that VICTOR BRUNO
was instructed ‘by his brother ANGELO to obtain a Photostat ~~.
copy of the court transeription for the third day of ANGELO
BRUNO's trial in Federal Court, Pages 172 through 359,: which

NG BRIDES ‘BRUNO: had borrowed from his attorney THOMAS

RUSSELT Strato

— 308 Dorrance Street fe
” Kingstor a

st

PH Tol 2 “advised on March 2, 1964, that RUSSELL BUFALINO
was in the Philadelphia area for the purpose of attending an’ -
Immigration and Naturalization ‘Service hearing concerning his
deportation, BUFALINO sent a message to ANGELO. BRUNO through
ABE HOFFBERG that’ BRUNO should’call BUFALINO at HOFFRERG's
apartment ‘at “4:00. p.m... Subsequently, during the same day,
HOFFBERG again conveyed a message to ANGELO BRUNO ‘on behalf of
BUFALINO, which message was that BUFALINO’ was registered ‘in
room 1012 of the Sylvania Hotel, Philadelphia, Pa., under the
name of ABE HOFFRERG. ~ Subsequently, BRUNO contacted HOFFRERG
and told him he did not wish to ‘speak with BUFALINO at the :
Sylvania Hotel; but that. he would see him at HOFFBERG! s apartment
ifrit sould be arranged.

On March 25, 1964, an article appeared in the Scranton

"=rtbune, " which article reported onthe INS: hearing concerning
BUFALINO's deportation, BUFALINO was asked by United States
Attorney VINCENT CHIANQ eoncerning his association with. ANGELO
BRUN ‘ALINO stated he“had attended a 1952 wedding of :
ANGELO 's daughter and that he is a friend of ANGELO BRUNO?
(BRUNO 's daughter was not married in. 19523 she was, “however, :
married in. 19! 62.) :

-17-

Docld:32299522 Page 9


PH 92-44ly
(4)

PH T-2 advised on April 13 1964, that he. learned
ANGELO BRUNO had received a parking eacket’ dated April 10, 1964,
at. 7:47 p.m., which ticket indicated that BRUNO's automobile
was parked at 1933 Panama Street, PH T-2 stated he believes
BRUNO received ‘this ticket ‘while visiting the ‘apartment of
AEE HOFFBERG , for the purpose: of meeting with RUSSELL. BUFALINO.

PH T-2 advised on May 5, 1964, that ABE HOFFBERG
contacted ANGELO BRUNO and told him RUSSELL BUFALINO' was
visiting his apartment, Town’ House Apartments,’ 1832 Spruce
Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

PH.T-3 advised on June 5, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO
had’ met. with RUSSELL _BUFALINO during the previous evening.”

PH. T=7 advised on ly 10, 1964, that RUSSELL
BUFALINO had told him that J the -had attended a big celebration
involving ANGELO BRUNO on July 9 A 1964,” The celebration was
held\in Philadelphia as a result of BRUNO's having ‘been
acquitted by a Federal Grand Jury at Philadelphia. ©

4
‘JOHNACAPPELLO

x 2934 South J

P r Street

PH T-1. advised on March 18, -1964, ANGELO BRUNO
contacted \JOHN CAPPELLO and: ‘Instructed CAPPELLO to: reach out

“for ANTHONY CASELLA and to’ tell, CASELLA phat] BRUNO ‘wished to

see him,’

PH T-2 advised .on April 7, 1964, that JOHN CAPPELLO
was in the vicinity: of Eighth and Catharine Streets: ‘looking
for ANGELO BRUNO. CAPPELLO stated he had received a message
that BRUNO wanted to speak with him, PH T-2 ‘stated: CAPPELLO
‘subsequently: contacted BRUNO telephonically, ° and instructed
BRUNO: to. call him ‘back’ at telephone cnumber. FU 9-9764,

PH r-2 advised on May 14, 1964, that FRANK SINDONE
discussed with BRUNO ‘the’ ‘possibility of: starting. up anew”

-18-

DocId:32299522 Page 10


PH 92-444 ‘
(5)

erap game. BRUNO instructed SINDONE to use JOHN CAPPELLO in
the operation pf the’ game because CAPPELLO is "broke."

PH T-2 advised on May 20, 1964, that CAPPELLO did
join. FRANK. SINDONE in the operation. of a new crap game, “which
information PHL f-2 learned from ‘SONNY, RICCOBENE. \

PH 1-8 advised on May 28, 1964, that JOHN. CAPPELLO
is ae as a union steward at the Philadelphia-New Jersey
Express Company, owned and operated ‘by TONY COPPOLA, who also has
ERNIE PERRICONE, FRANK NARDUCCI, and FELIX JOHN DE TULLIO on the
company's: Payroll,

anMcinracoroxe

TAQ South Ets Eighth Str et
Entladelphia hia 5:

GARRACCIOLO. ‘4s @ barber operating a barber. shop at
749 South Eighth Street, He sold ‘this shop.to FELIX: JOHN
DE TULLIO,' ‘and according to PH T-2, CARRACCIOLO spoke with
ANGELO BRUNO’ on May. 11,°1964, and requested BRUNO to assi t him”
in‘his efforts to get back his barber ‘shop from DE. TULLI
" CARRACCIOLO stated ‘that he would repay the money for the a
barber shop to IGNATIUS | DENARO 4

AumOwyCASELIA
Philadelph z

/ Se
ae OASETIA is a brother of BRUNO's former close asso¢iate

PETER CA ne who is now serving’a ‘hO-year: term at: Atlanta
Penitent4|

for a narcotics violation Gonviction,

PH T-1 advised on March 18,1964, that ANGELO. BRUNO
told. JOHN \CAPPELLO to ‘réach out for ANTHONY CASELLA and to
tell CASELLA that BRUNO: wished: to speak with hin.

2 advised that on April 13, 1964, ANGELO BRUNO
‘SELLA at Dante and Iuigi's Restaurant, Tenth
treets, Philadelphia, © Pa. Informant learned

‘i ae

Docld:32299522 Page 11


PH 92-444
(6)

that CASELLA spoke with BRUNO on this oceasion concerning
"woman trouble" ‘he was having, ‘which trouble necessitated his
appearance before Magistrate ELIAS MEYERS, BRUNO was going
to arrange for some political tnsurance to. bring’ ‘about a~
favorable decision for CASELLA,

LIANNI AKA FRTIE
Sixth and tere Streets iueneSTe TEE)

PH T-2 advised on May 9, 1964,: that ANGELO BRUNO
and FRANK ‘NICOLETTI went to the Cafe Internazionale for the
purpose of meeting with “COLTANNE and IGNATIUS DENARO,

PH T-3 advised on June 18, 1964; ANGELO BRUNO
learned that ARMAND COLIANNI had publicly been using ANGELO
“BRUNO's name for self-serving reasons, which practice BRUNO
was extremely disturbed” over.’

ALBERT }COPEIAND Ak
4846 Widener Place t
Philadelphia, Pa.
eee eamemetee
PH T-1 advised on March 2, 1964, that ALBERT COPELAND

.. Visited ANGELO BRUNO at the Penn Jersey Vending Company’ at ~
approximately” 1:30" Pome and departed ‘with BRUNO at 5:00 Pm

PH M1 advised on. March 9, 1964,. that ALBERT COPELAND
visited ANGELO BRUNO at Penn Jersey Vending Company .

PH T-1 advised on March 13, 1964, that ALBERT
COPELAND. was present at Penn Jersey Vending Company for the
purpose of seeing ANGELO BRUNO, COPELAND arrived at. approximately
‘1:00 p.m, and departed with BRUNO at 3:30 p.m. BRUNO and
COPELAND. at this time were ‘using COPELAND 's automobile. — +

PH T-1 advised on March 23, 1964, that A COPELAND
visited Penn Jersey Vending Company, :

-20-

Docld:32299522 Page 12


PH 92—4iy
moon

PH T-1 advised on March 24, 1964, that ALBERT COPELAND
again visited Penn’ Jersey Vending Company.

PH T-1 advised on March 27, 1964, that ALBERT COPELAND
Wjopn at’ Penn Jersey, Vending Company’ from 1:15 pom. to.
230° p.m.

On April 14, 1964, ALBERT COPELAND advised SA JOHN C,
MURRAY he is employed as a temporary manager of the Philadelphia
Parking Authority Garage at 18th’and ‘Walnut Streets, Philadelphia,
Pas COPELAND stated this appointment is temporary and that
eventually he will be the Deputy Director of the ‘Philadelphia |
Parking Authority,

CHARLES IXCOSTELLO _

714 Puritan Street Wa
==hawFence. Fence.Towmship ars
: on, 2.

COSTELLO is reportedly a cousin of “ANGELO BRUNO,

PH T-2 advised on. April 1, 1964, that frog, {UNO
had indicated that he would visit ihe home of CHARLES STELLO
during: the evening ‘of April I; 1964

PH T-2 advised on May 14, 1964, that CHARLES
COSTELLO, accompanied by a man named SAM, ‘visited ANGELO BRUNO
at Penn Jersey Vending Company, Philadelphia, Pas”

PH +3 advised on June 9, 1964, ANGELO BRUNO was
expecting CHARLES COSTELLO to’ visit him at his Philadelphia
residence’ during the evening of June 95 1964.

smagtorammisz0

_839 Woodland Drive
“Blackwood, Ne.

PH T-1 advised on March 2, 1964, that FRANK D'ATTILLIO
discussed with ANGELO: BRUNO a building contract for a motel- *

-21-

Docld:32299522 Page 13


so)
-)

PH 2— Ht
(8)

restaurant. PH T-1 did not know the location of the proposed
“motel, aie : :

PH T-1 advised on March 18, 196k: that FRANK D'ATTILLIO
again discussed with ANGELO ‘BRUNO the financing ofa motel-
bar-restaurant. BRUNO advised D'ATTILLIO the operating expenses
would be too high and advised him not’ to take over the notes

of the present owners. PH. T-1 further advised concerning
D'ATPILLIO that DtaATTILILIO 1s an active loan. shark ‘in the
Philadelphia area and pushes money for FELIX JOHN DE TULLIO,

PH T-1 advised on March 19,.1964, that AUGUSTINE
MAZZIO and FRANK D‘ATTILLIO met with FELIX JOHN DE TULLIO at
“the Friendly Bar, Eighth and Washington Avenue, Philadelphia,
at approximately 11235 Peles March 19, 1964. :

- PH T-2 advised. on Apri 14, 1964, that FRANK
DIATTILLIO: had received the approval of ANGELO BRUNO: to
loan money’ to’ MIKE MARRONE and that MARRONE ‘was repaying the
loan at Penn Jersey Vending Company... :

. PH T-2 advised on April 15, 1964, that MIKE MARRONE
set up an appointment for the purpose of repaying FRANK
DIATEELETO's loan at Penn Jersey Vending Company. .PH T-2
stated D'ATTILLIO, together with FELIX JOHN DE TULLIO,
represent one of the three most powerful loan shark ‘groups
in South Philadelphia,”

PH T-2 advised on April.16, 1964, that GINO D'ATTILLIO
- contacted Penn Jersey Vending Company for the purpose of): 3
determining whether or not MIKE MARRONE had made any payments
through ANGELO’ BRUNO for FRANK D'ATTILLIO.

PH T-2 advised on April 17, 1964, that he observed
FRANK D'ATTILLIO. in the company of RAY MARTORANO, FELIX JOHN
DE TULLIO, and EDDIE TIESI, who were in the éompany of the
wives at the Friendly Bar, Eighth and Washington Avenue,
Philadelphia, Pa.

PH T-2 advised on April 30, 1964, that FRANK DIATTILLIO

made arrangements to meet with ANGELO BRUNO at the Friendly
Bar during the evening ef April 30; 1964,

n22--

Docld:32299522 Page 14


PH 92-444

PH T-2 advised on May 1, 1964, that RAY MARTORANO
was looking for ANGELO BRUNO for the purpose of advising him
FRANK D'ATTILLIO had ‘opened a new luncheonette ‘at 301 South
52nd Street, which business 1s called Betsy's Sandwich Shop.
DIaATTILLIO wanted to install a cigarette machine at this’.
location and wanted MARTORANO to extend a $500 loan to. him
for the purpose of installing a machine at this loeation. In
addition, D'ATTILLIO: wanted three gents commission on each
pack of cigarettes sold anda $200 gift. D'ATTILLIO's demands
angered MARTORANO, Subsequently, BRUNO learned of D'tATTILLIO's
demands, which angered BRUNO because BRUNO has done so many
favors for DIATLILLTO in the past,

PH T-3 advised on wJuly 30, 1964, that FRANK
D'ATTILLIO. is. working on a "bingo deal". with AUGUSTINE MAZZIO,
DIATTILLIO’ and MAZZIO plan to operate bingo games'in ~
"Solored churches" on’ a percentage basis, starting in.
September 1964,. DtaTTILLIO indicated it will be necessary
for him to see BRUNO. concerning this; and he was hoping
BRUNO would not suggest that he employ FRANK MONTE, FRANK
NARDUCCI, or FRANK EDDONE as workers ‘becausé they were too

"hot."
~ ies
oe AKB GWATZ,
—-3162:South..Uber.Street ~ = ~~
Philadelphia, Pa. 7
Ses a

PH T-1 advised on March.3, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO
and FRANK NICOLETTL met with DENARO at DENARO's Cafe Inter-
nazionale.

PH T-1 advised on March 7, 1: 1964,. that he observed
IGNAT O° and BRUNO meeting at DENARO! 8” Cafe Internazionale,

PH T-1 advised on March 14, 1964, that IGNAZIO
DENARO met with ANGELO BRUNO in the rear room’ of ALFONSO
MATORIELLO's barber. ‘shop from'4:10.p.m, until 5:20: Pom,

PH Rl advised on March: 16, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO

had an appointment to meet with. RAYMOND MARTORANO and “IGNATIUS,
DENARO ‘at’ the Cafe Internazionale, a

~23~

Docld:32299522 Page 15


[ - ran aa

ao

PH T-1 advised on March 25,.1964, that. ANGELO BRUNO
learned from FRANK LOSCALZO that FBI Agents had spoken with
IGNATIUS DENARO at the Cafe Internazionale ‘earlier in the day.

PH T-2 advised on April 8, 1964, that IGNATIUS
DENARO had been invited by LOU LALLI to attend the wedding of
LALLI's stepson on-May 2, 1964, DENARO's invitation was’
left ‘at ANGELO BRUNO's Penn. Jersey Vending Company to be
delivered to him.) °° ~ : :

PH T-2 advised on April 11, 1964, IGNATIUS DENARO
received his invitation for ‘the wedding ‘of LOU LALLI's stepson
at Penn Jersey: Vending Company. Later during the same day,:
DENARO met with SALVATORE AVENA, ANGELO BRUNO, and ALFREDO
IEZZI in the rear’ room of MAIORTELIO's barber shop. DENARO
was present during this discussion’ from 4:15 until 4:40. p.m.

FH T-2 advised on April 25, 1964, that IGNATIUS
DENARO received ‘a message from ANGELO: BRUNO ‘that BRUNO had
returned to Philadelphia from Miami, Fla, and that he could
be reached at his residence, BRUNO left’ this message for
DENARO at ALFONSO MAIORIELIO's barber shop. :

PH T-2 advised on April 28, 1964, that IGNAZIO DENARO.
met with ANGELO BRUNO on the northeast corner of Eighth and
Christian Streets and'discussed with BRUNO the Rainbow Gardens
Restaurant, which ‘was owned by one of the VIGILANTE brothers.
DENARO told BRUNO the VIGILANTE brothers had obtained a ‘better
contract than BRUNO's for elgarette machines plus 60 per cent
of the juke box machines ina 50-50 split. -BRUNO indicated to
DENARO the next time one of the VIGILANTEs comes for’ favors,
it will cost him $1,000, °° ane : ee

PH T-2.advised on April 29, 1964, that RAYMOND
MARTORANO. told BRUNO that DENARO wishes: to keep his Cafe
Internazionale open on Sundays for. the purpose of. operating
a poolroom located in the rear of the cafe. BRUNO. told
MARTORANO to’ tell. DENARO that he should contact his attorney
and discuss with him the possibility of remaining open on™
Sunday in view of a recent Pennsylvania law sponsored by State
Senator CHARLES WEINER, which was recently passed affecting
DENARO's type of. operations “and which law may enable DENARO to
remain open on Sunday. ae eat .

-2h-

Docld:32299522 Page 16


ae

PH T-2 advised on.April 30,1964, that IGNAZIO DENARO
sent word to ANGELO BRUNO he had engaged the services of
Attorney REN LEMISCH, who was making arrangements | for DENARO
te ‘legally’ keep ‘his Poolroom open on Sundays.

PH T-2 advised on May 9, 1964, that CONNIE MAIORIELLO,
girl friend of IGNAZIO DENARO, arranged an appointment for
BRUNO’to meet with DENARO? ‘Subsequently, FRANK’ NICOLETTI
and ANGELO BRUNO departed: the vicinity of Eighth and Christian
Streets and went to the. Cafe Internazionale’ to meet with IGNAZIO
DENARO and ARTIE: COLIANNI, “Shortly thereafter, NICOLETTI. and~

“BRUNO returned to MAIORIELLO's barber: shop and were. followed

by DENARO, who arrived approximately ten minutes ‘later, BRUNO
and DENARO' then met in the rear room of the barber Shop from
4215 ‘ently 6100 Pome

PH T-2 advised'on May 21, 1964, that ANGELO. BRUNO's
son, MICHAEL BRUNO, who operates an’ exterminating business,
services DENARO's bate Internazionale.”

PH T-2 advised on May 27, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO
met with IGNAZIO DENARO at the Cafe Internazionale for the.
purpose (Of ‘discussing their federal ‘extortion, ‘case. ,

PH. Te3 advised on June 5, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO

‘from 2330 psm, until 5300 Poem. met with, FONATTVS DENARO's
‘attorney RAY MACHEN.

PH T-3 advised on June 12, 1964, ANGELO BRUNO,
subsequent to the session in United States Courthouse,
Philadelphia, net with aya DENARO at. the: Cafe ‘Internazionale.

PH f-3:advised on June 13, 1: , ANGELO BRUNO met with IGNAZIO
DENARO: for approximately one hour in the rear room of :
ALFONSO _MATORIELIO "'s barber shop. :

PH T-3 advised on June 27, 1964, ANGELO BRUNO met

with IGNATIUS DENARO. in the rear poom of ALFONSO MATORTELLO's
barber shop. :

~25-

Docld:32299522 Page 17


CQ

pee tZrR(O

DE TULLIO So foe
a

Wenue.

PH T~1 advised on March 3, 1964, he observed FELIX
JOHN DE TULLIO ‘at Penn: Jersey Vending Company waiting for’
ANGELO BRUNO. DE TULLIO did not contact BRUNO at this time,
but’ at approximately “11:00 p.m.;-Mareh 3,.1964, DE TULLIO
met with ANGELO BRUNO and FRANK NICOLETTI at the Friendly
Bar, Elghth and Washington Avenue,’ Philadelphia, Pa.

PH T-1 advised on March 5, 1964, that DE TULLIO
during the early afternoon hours attempted to contact BRUNO,
but’ was unsuccessful, At approximately 12:00 midnight, the’
night of March 5, 1964, BRUNO was observed by PH-T-1 at
TE ee Friendly Bar, Eighth and Washington’ Avenue, Phila-

lelphia, Pa. ,

PH T-1 advised on March 14, 1964, that DE TULLIO
attempted to contact BRUNO during the early afternoon hours,
but was not successful. : :

PH T-1 advised on March 16, 1964, that GEORGE KATZ
is of the opinion ANGELO BRUNO, MAX WEISBERG, SAM MARGOLIS, i
. FELIX DE TULLIO, and FRANK PALERMO have been frequently meeting
at DE TULLIO's Friendly ‘Bar for the purpose.of diseussing
business’ in regard to their involvement. in the contract of
CHARLES SONNY LISTON, ‘KATZ 1s: of the opinion PALERMO and MARGOLIS
are currently fighting and that PALERMO borrowed a sum of ‘money
from FELIX JOHN DE TULLIO with the intention’ of repaying it ~
after the LISTON fight. ocel

PH T-1 advised on March 18, 1964, that FRANK DtaTTILLIO
is a loan shark actively pushing money for FELIX JOHN DE TULLIO
and frequently contacts ANGELO BRUNO for advice. concerning
loans to. be’ granted and loans ‘to be collected. :

PH T+1 advised on March 21, 1964, FELIX JOHN DE TULLIO
visited ANGELO BRUNO at Penn Jersey Vending Company. DE TULLIO
told BRUNO he‘ would see him at.6:00. p.m. on the following <—
Sunday. DE TULLIO also told BRUNO ‘he needed a W-2 form from

-26-

Docld:32299522 Page 18


io et

MICHAEL BRUNO, ANGEIO's gon, to show DE. TULEIO's employment
with Glebe Exterminating Company, operated by. MICHAEL BRUNO.

PH T~1 advised on March 24, 1964, that FRANK K NICOLETTT,
accompanied by ANGELO. BRUNO, were present at FELIX JO!
DE TULLIO's Friendly Bar,: areas ‘and: Washington Trenaee at
12220 a.m. . BRUNO and DENARO talked on this occasion ‘for
approximately one-half ‘hour,

PH T-1 advised on March 28, 1964, he learned from
GEORGE KATZ that FRANK: PALERMO is controlled by FELIX. JOHN
DE, TULLIO and ‘that DE TULLIO gives PALERMO protection from.
PALERMO's many benefactors who have given him loans, which *
loans PALERMO has never repaid, PH T-1 advised KATZ 1s of the
opinion DE TULLIO is giving protection to PALERMO merely for
rt ie of protecting his ow investment .in CHARLES SONNY

Me

PH T-l advised on Mareh 27, 1964, DE TULLIO sent a
message to ANGELO BRUNO telling him ‘he wanted to see him at
his ‘barber shop: that is, at ‘the. former barber. shop of SAM.
CARRACCTO: LO.

PH T-2 advised on April. 3, 1964, that MAX WEISBERG
and ANGELO BRUNO were observed by: him walking to 749° South
Eighth” Street, which: is: FELIX: JOHN DE TULLIO's barber shop.

PH 1-2 advised on. April. uw, 1964, that. BRUNO met with
NICHOLAS. PICCOLO at ALFONSO MAIORIELLO's barber: shop for the
purpose of resolving aloan: made by DE TULLIO. to PICCOLO 's
nephew NICHOLAS: SCARFO,. SCARFO owes $600: to: DE TULLIO.

PH 1-2 advised on. April 13, 1964, that there were
- three prinetpal loan shark "groups" in the. South. Philadelphia
area, one of which gentered . around FELIX JOHN DE TULLIO: and his
associate FRANK _DIATTILLIO.

PH m2 advised on. April 17, 1964, that FRANK DIATTILLIO,
RAY -MARTORANO, FELIX. JOHN DE TULLIO, and EDDIE TIESI were’
present together with their ‘wives 8 at the Friendly Bar, Eighth
and Washington - Avenue. 7 fe :

-27T-

Docld:32299522 Page 19


Gy

PH T-2 advised on April 23, 1964, that. FELIX JOHN
DE TULLIO tola him he, DE TULLIO, and ANGELO BRUNO have been
given the "okay". to vigit Taberty Bell Harnéss ‘Track in
Philadelphia and will not be barred’ from the: track ‘because
of their reputations as gamblers.

PH T-2 advised on April 25,1964, that. DE TULLIO
obtained this "okay." to visit Liberty Bell Race Track’ from
JIM CLARK's (deceased) son-in-law STEVE O'NEIL. “During the.
day DE ‘TULLIO visited: ANGELO: BRUNO : and ‘spoke briefly for
ten minutes: at Penn Jersey Vending Company.

PH T-2 advised on April. 30, 1964, that DE TULLIO
contacted ANGELO BRUNO and advised him DAN STROMBERG, aka
aad Dan," would meet ae at midnight at the ‘Friendly

PH T+2 advised on May 1, 1964, that DE TULLIO- contacted
BRUNO during the afternoon and BRUNO told him he would see: :
him later during ‘the ‘evening at the Friendly. Bar. :

PH T-2 advised on May 2, 1964, that. DE TULLIO
contacted ANGELO BRUNO and arranged to meet with him, Shortly
thereafter, BRUNO went to DE ‘O's barber Shop on South
Eighth ‘Street, “where he met’ with DE TULLIO,

During the afternoon of May 2, 1964, ANGELO BRUNO,
DE TULLIO, ‘AL SILVERBERG, JEFF NEWMAN, and RALPH SCHWARTZ: were
observed going to’ the’ ssond floor of PALUMBO's.- restaurant,
Darien and Catharine Streets, ‘Philadelphia, Pa., to attend the
wedding reception for IOu- Aare stepson. At. the reception,
DE TULLIO “sat with: BRUNO, JEFF NEWMAN, AL SILVERBERG, “and
RALPH SCHWARTZ. Subsequently during the reception, BRUNO
and DE 'TULLIO were Joined by AMEREDO TEZZI and LOU LALLI,
father: of the bridegroom,

PH T-2 advised on May 11, 1964, that BRUNO had a
discussion: with SAM CARRACCIOLO concerning FELIX JOHN DE TULLIOts
_ having ‘taken over CARRACCIOLO's barber shop at 749 South Eighth |
Street. CARRACCIO: indicated he would like to get the barber
: ahep baete and ‘woule repay the money for the shop to TGNAZIO

~28-

Docld:32299522 Page 20


Lain)
‘-)

ase

PH. T+2 advised. on May.13, 1964, BRUNO hed a discussion
with DE TULLIO concerning the return by DE TULLIO of SAM’ —
CARRACCLOLO's barber’ shop ‘to CARRACCIOLO, BRUNO. subsequently
contacted CARRACCIOLO's wife, who ows a dress shop at Seventh
and Perter Streets, Philadelphia, Pa., to inform her DE TULLIO
intended to return her husband's barber shop to her ‘husband
“dollar for dollar," Later during the day, SAM CARRACCIOLO,

DE, TULLIO,' and BRUNO had a conversation, during which SAM
agreed to" “buy: back the barber shop from DE TOLLIO.

- PH T-3 advised.on May 13, 1961, that TONY COPPOLA,
owner of the Philadelp! ta-New Jersey Express Company, had a
conversation with ERNIE PERRICONE, ANGELO BRUNO, and FELIX
DE TULLIO concerning labor probleme COPPOLA was having.

PH T-8 advised on May 28, 1964, that FELIX JOHN
DE TULLIO was on the payroll of the Philadelphia-New Jersey
Express ‘owned by TONY. COPPOLA.

PH T-9 advised on June 7, 1964, that a floral wreath
was. sent to the wake of ANTONIA FIRSCHKE, mother-in-law of —
FRLIX: JOHN DE TULLIO ‘bear: the notation "ANGELO and PHILIP,"

~~ (ANGELO BRUNO and PHILIP TESTA) The’ viewing for DE TULLIO's
mother-in-law was held at Schetter's. Funeral. Home,’ Cherry.
Hill,’ Neds

PH 1-3 advised on July 30, 1964, that FELIX JOHN
DE. TULLIO was: making inquiries to determine if ANGELO BRUNO
was in Philadelphia,

as *OLTO

716-Manton Street.

“Philadelphia; Pas

ee,

PH T-] advised on March 20; 1964, that ADAM D'OLIO
had a private meeting with ANGELO BRUNO, which meeting took
place in’an automobile owned by BRUNO's associate AL COPELAND.
D'OLIO also met with ANGEIO- BRONO, according to PH T-1, on:
March .23, 1964, °

729-

Docld:32299522 Page 21


te

‘
PH T-2 advised on May 12.1964, a disagreement arose

during the day concerning what’ the winning number would be in

the South Philadelphia: numbers lottery. The winning number was

decided by ANGELO BRUNO, ADAM DIOLIO, and DOMINICK COLOZZI.°

It was deoided® the number 314 would the the’ correct number.

PH 1-2 advised on May 21, 325, that ANGELO BRUNO
met with SONNY RICCOBENE and ADAM DYOLT

PH T-2 advised on May 21, 1964, that BEN @0L0B

visited ANGELO BRUNO,  GOLOB indicated to the informant that
he had recently returned from the Dominican Republic. for the
purpose of seeing. ANGELO BRUNO because” “BRUNO never responded
to any of the letters 'GOLOB had ‘sent to him, GOLOB wanted
BRUNO to intercede for him for the purpose of removing NORMAN

OMKIN as operator of Coney.Island, Dominican Republie.=“GOLOB
wanted to replace FROMKIN in this capacity. © GOLOB indicated
to. the informant there are three owners. of Coney Telandy namely
NORMAN, FROMKIN, BERNARD ALLEN, “and ANGELO BRUNO.

PH m2 advised on May 23, 1964, BRUNO, FRANK
NICOLETTI, and ‘BEN GOLOB held’a meeting at Penn. Jersey ‘Vending
Company. “GOLOB wanted BRUNO to see BERNARD ALLEN who was ~
as of May 23, 1964, at Philadelphia's Lighthouse Field with a
carnival.  GOLOB wanted BRUNO to relieve NORMAN FROMKIN as
manager of. ‘Coney Island and put himself in as FROMKIN's replacement.
BRUNO. told GOLOB he was ‘unable to go to.either the Dominican
Republic or to the Lighthouse Field to see BERNARD: ALLEN,
-, BRUNO stated at this time that he would go to the Dominican
Republic to "straighten matters out" subsequent to his trial
in United States District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
GOLOB: left Philadelphia, according to PH T+2, on a.3:00 p.m.
airplane for the Kennedy International Airport, New York. City,
| from where: he would then fly to. Puerto. Rico.”

PH T-2 advised on May 28, 1964, that BEN GOLOB sent /
a. letter to ANGELO BRUNO that week,

~30-

XK

Docld:32299522 Page 22


Cy
(>

GRASSO is a nephew of ANGELO BRUNO.’

PH T-1 advised on March 25, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO
met with MICHAEL GRASSO and ANGELO RUSSO at MICHAEL GRASSO's
office for the purpose of preparing income’ tax. forms for the
Ranchland Corporation, which corporation sold land. located
at Third and ‘Oregon Avenue; Philadelphia, Pa.

PH T+2 advised on April 9, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO
Visited the office of MICHAEL GRASSO, Philadelphia, Pa. During
the day MAX WEISBERG attempted to contact’ BRUNO, and finally
joined: him at MICHAEL GRASSO 's office.

PH T-2 advised. on April 13, 1964, that. MICHAEL. GRASSO
at one a@ message 'to ‘ANGELO BRUNO that it was urgent he see him
at once.

. PH T-2 advised on April. 15,19 ed: that ANGELO BRUNO
departed the vicinity of Elghth and cma an. Streets for’ the
purpose of going to the office of MI RASSO, It. appeared
BRUNO. went to GRASSO's officeon this’ us eto. seek information
concerning: LOUIS* CAMPBELL, 639 Randolph Street, Camden, N. J.
It.appeared to PH T-2: CAMPBELL. had: approached ANGELO BRUNO,
ALFREDO. IRZZ1, and FRANK NICOLETT] for the purpose of borrowing
an: “undisclosed ‘sum of money, stating he was behind in taxes seeeeeeer
and mortgage payments on his: home. “ GRASSO, apparently becese :
he is a real estate dealer, was able to check into this for
purposes of verification, and he learned ‘what CAMPBELL stated
was ‘not true.

FRANK\ORECO

Docld:32299522 Page 23


ae

PH T-2 advised on May 13, 1964, ANGELO BRUNO was in
contact with FRANK GRECO, 1800 South 19th Street, GRECO is
reportedly a cloge associate of PHILIP TESTA, ~~

PH T-2 advised on May it, 1964, ANGELO. BRUNO. was
agein in contact with FRANK. GRECO. ae -

PH T-2 advised on May 15, 1964, that BRUNO during the
fay concerned ‘himself with 0. 1806 difficulties being experienced
by FRANK and: JOSEPHINE GRECO, 1800 South 19th Street, Phila-
delphia, Pa.’ ‘The GRECOs apparently owe $171.00 to the’ ~
zeae Workmen's ‘Buliding “and oan: Association on a #4009
mortgage.

Ee
gaat Horraana

PH T-1 sdviaed on March 2, 1964, that..ABE HOFFBERG
contacted ANGELO BRUNO on ‘behalf of RUSSELL BUFALINO. for the:
purpose of arranging a meeting between: BRUNO and: BUFALINO,
Subsequently during the day, HOFFBERG was again in’ contact
with ANGELO: BRUNO’ and informed him that -BUFALINO was’ registered
‘at the Sylvania Hotel under the name of ABE -HOFFRERG.: BRUNO
subsequently contacted HOFFBERG and informed him ‘that he would
not visit ‘BUFALINO ‘at the hotel, but. would like’ to have arrange-
ments made ‘BO: BRUNO. Gould: meet: BUFALINO at HOFFBERG's apartment.

PH T+1 advised. on Mareh 20,-1964, that HOFFRERG
attempted to contact ANGELO BRUNO at Penn Jersey Vending:
Company ;° but was unsuccessful,

PH [1 advised on Mareh 25, 1964, that ABE HOFFEERG
attempted to contact ANGELO BRUNO at his residence ‘and at.
Penn Jersey Vending Company on March’ 24, 1964,» BRUNO
indi¢ated to the informant he had met with HOFFBERG during
the evening of March ah, 1964.

PH T=2' advised on April 13,1964, ANGELO BRUNO had
: received a parking violation ticket dated April 10; 1964; at

-32-

Docld:32299522 Page 24


PH sack -
(19

which time BRUNO's automobile was parked at 1933 Panama Street.
PH T-2 noted it was his opinion. that BRUNO was visiting
ARE HOFFBERG at this time,

PH T-2 advised on’ May 5, 1964, ABE HOFFRERG contacted
ANGELO BRUNO -and: advised him RUSSELL BUFALINO was at
HOFFBERG's apartment,

eee

advised on May 2, 1964, S OFFMAN was present
at Palumbo's Restaurant, second floor room, at the wedding
reception for LOU LALLI's stepson, ANGELO BRUNO waé present

at this time, The informant ADVISED ‘that HOFFMAN received his
‘invitation from FRANK MATTEO and that MATTEO, in turn, had

penet ved the two invitations from BRUNO's office manager’ RALPH

a
FRA) Swecky *
_ine Seuties Seemets Street 7
—EbLladelphia,. Pa Be. \

=

PH Tl, PH T-2, and PH T~3 have advised IANNARELLA

playe a key role .in' the ‘Operation of BRUNO 's illegal numbers
ottery.

‘ Vy,  ALER cepa Ox ezz/
LFRED! 7 WIS
1437 South. Broad wy FRED?
_~brtlagelphiay P Pay Sheeet

PH T-1 advised on March 5, 1964, that FREIMIEZZI met
with ANGELO BRUNO at Penn Jersey Vending Company. during the
daye

PH T-1 advised on March 9, 1964, that BRUNO contacted
FRED IBZZI at room 711,.St. lake's Hospital, Philadeiphia, Pa.

~33-

Docld:32299522 Page 25


PH 92-444
i

Subsequently, TE221 visited BRUNO, at Penn Jersey Vending
Company «

PH T-] advised that on March 11, 1964, IEZZI attempted
to contact ANGELO BRUNO during the morning, but was not successful.
Subsequently, IEZZI returned to Penn Jersey Vending Pend
during the afternoon, where he conferred with BRUNO

PH T-1 advised on March 27, 1964, that FRED TEZZI
and SAM PUNGITORE extended: their Easter greetings to BRUNO
at’ Penn Jersey Vending Company. IEZZI also informed BRUNO he
was going to New York City for the week end,

PH _Te2 advised on April 8, 1964, that LOU LALLI
left a eae invitation for his stepson's wedding to be held”
a ievngbo tezd 19 ba Sf Penn Jersey Vending’ Company to be delivered

i

PH T=2 advised on April 11,.1964, that BRUNO held,
a meeting in the rear room of ALFONSO MAIORIELLO's barber shop,
at which time SAM AVENA, IGNATIUS DENARO, and FRED IEZZI were
also present,

PH T-2 advised on April 15, 1964, ANGELO BRUNO,
FRED TEZZI, and FRANK NICOLETTI held a meeting concerning ou
CAMPEELE, 639 Randolph Street, Camden, N, J.

PH T-2 advised on April 25, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO
distributed ‘invitations to the wedding of THERESA SCAFIDI.
BRUNO gave an unknown number of invitations to ALFRED IEZZI,

_.PH T-2 advised on May 2, 1964, that ALFRED IEZZI sat
with ANGELO BRUNO at the wedding reception held at Palumbo's
Restaurant, which Feception was-for. the stepson of LOU LALLI.

ae

~_735_Brunswick_Avenue _
Erenton, Neds. :.

PROT-2. JT-2 advised on May 21, 1964, that JOHN CASABLANCA
SIMONE and CARL IPPOLITO ealled. from New. York telephone CAnal 6-0038
and wanted to talk’with BRUNO right away, BRUNO received the ~

message, according: to PH Tr2, and ‘sald he would return’ the
telephone eall, =3U.

iy

hes.

Docld:32299522 Page 26


ay O
PH 92-444
(21) Z
J0s) NEFSKY
aka rane ‘and Midnight

7122 Tdbor Avenue

Philadelphia, Pa.
ne ee ae

PH T-1 advised on March 9.1964, that JOR KANE made ©
an appointment to meet with ANGELO. BRUNO later during the
evening at the Friendly Bar, ‘Bighth and. ‘Washington Avenue,

PH T-2 advised. on April 14, 1964, that JOE KANE was
attempting to borrow $1,000 from RAYMOND MARTORANO for the
Candy Cane Lounge. RTORANO | was awaiting \an okay from BRUNO
before lending the money to KANE. \

PH T-2 advised on April 27, 1964,\RAYMOND MARTORANO
requested BRUNO to okay a $1,000 loan to Ji NEFSKY in. order
for KANEFSKY to repay AL SHORE. -KANEFSKY and SOLLIE: GLEANER
purchased’ one-half: of the Candy Cane Lounge, Marshall Street
and. Oregon Avenue, and KANEFSKY owed this $1,000 to SHORE,

. MARTORANO indicated that KANEFSKY still owes $3,000, BRUNO
told MARTORANO that he. would hold up his decision until. the
following Saturday night » When he would have an opportunity to
‘speak with DAN. STROMBERG.’ MARTORANO then contacted” JOE. KANEFSKY
and set up an appointment for KANEFSKY to meet with BRUNO at
midnight, April 275-1964 a

Grorar\ Katz !
509" ‘Tasker’ Street
Sbnitrater hia PntTadelphia, Pa. .

PH T-1 advised on March 4,.1964, that GEORGE KATZ
visited Penn Jersey Vending ‘Company in an effort to ‘contact
ANGELO BRUNO, but was ‘unsuccessful.

PH T-1 advised on March 18, 1964, GEORGE KATZ attempted
to contact ANGELO BRUNO, but was unsuccessful. PH ‘T-1 ‘stated

KATZ. possibly: wanted to speak with BRUNO concerning a disagreement

he had with ABE GLASSMAN-concerning an uridisclosed sum of money
KATZ's brother, TOMMY FOLEY, reportedly owes GLASSMAN,” '

735-

Docld:32299522 Page 27



C -_

Get

PH T-1 advised on March 19, 1964, that KATZ again
attempted ‘to contact ANGELO BRUNO, but was unsuccessful,
Subsequently, KATZ made an appointment to see BRUNO at BRUNO's
residence later Guring the day.

PH -T-2 advised on April 13, 1964, that NAT FRANK
advised. ANGELO BRUNO that GEORGE KATZ and AL COPELAND were the
parties responsible for telling everyone BRUNO's ‘business, FRANK told
BRUNO :they were not doing this maliciously, but that they both :
had "big mouths," aon

PH T-2 advised on May 12, 1964, that GEORGE KATZ
told ANGELO BRUNO while at the corner of Broad and Locust
Streets that his brother TOMMY FOLEY was looking for BRUNO
concerning a mixup in the correct number in the Philadelphia
numbers lottery for May 11, 1964. — :

RALPH(RA
aka Tommy/\Foley

Apartments

5 street

Phi phia, =

PH T-2 advised on April 13, 1964, that NAT FRANK
accused GEORGE KATZ, TOMMY FOLEY's brother, of having a "big
mouth" and of spreading’ the story that his brother TOMMY
FOLEY was turning in his numbers plays to ANGELO BRUNO.

a
LOUISABALLI

1111 Carpenter_Street
ae.

iad Pa.

: On April 8, 1964, PH T-2 advised _LOUABALLT|

stepson was getting married:on May 2, 1964, and that a reception
would take place at Palumbo's Restaurant, Beh Catharine

Street, Philadelphia, Pa, LALLI left a couple of invitations
at Penn Jersey Vending Company to be distributed to a number

of persons, LALLI personally gave BRUNO his invitation-to the
wedding. eau

=36-

Docld:32299522 Page 28


Gyo

On May 2, 1964, PH T-2 advised that ANGELO BRUNO
attended ‘the weading reception for. LOU-LALLI's son ANTHONY
TALLT. held at Palumbo's Regtaurant, Darien and Catharine Streets,

PH T-2 advised on. May 1},.1964, ANGELO BRUNO
intended to have his tax returns’ for himself and—his-wife SUE -—
prepared by Camden, N. J., accountant JOSEPH WILSON: and sub-
sequently rechecked by Philadelphia Attorney. MARVIN LEVIN,

a :

\ 2613 ‘South 2ist Street. Uta
~_Philadeiphig; Pas"

PH T-2 advised on April 16,1964, that MARTO MAGGTO
met briefly with ANGELO BRUNO. at: ALFONSO MATORIELLO's barber
_ Shop, Eighth and ‘Christian Streets, Philadelphia, Pa.

a

?

GaIo

MA :
: Piledenphia ' Dom REF:

ANGELO BRUNO met with PETER MAGGIO at the M. Maggio
Cheese Company on April 1, 1964, according to PH T-2,

PH F-2 advined on apr 19,-1964, that. on the previous
evening, that is April 18, 19 ANGELO BRUNO had met with -
PETER and LENA MAGGIO and CHARLES COSTELLO at’ the BRUNO residence.

PH T-2 advised on May 12, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO
had made an appointment to meet with PETER MAGGIO during
the afternoon at a luncheonette located: at llth and Ellsworth
Streets, Philadelphia, Pa,

-37-

Docld:32299522 Page 29


aka JoeXFlowers (Deceased )
Philadelphia, Pa. -

had lunch‘with his Attorneys ALLAN DAVIS: and THOMAS D,..MC BRIDE
and. BRUNO's office manager RALPH SCHWARTZ at Dante's Restaurant,
1809 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa. JOSEPH MALITO, co~
owner of the restaurant, was present and arranged a table for
the group. -MALITO also sat at the table, sitting next to BRUNO,

| PH T-10 advised on June 17, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO

PH T-3 advised that he was sitting nearby, and he
overheard MALITO telling BRUNO he would like to ask BRUNO for
a favor, BRUNO interrupted him and stated he had already taken
careof 1t and. "CHICKIE must have been drunk." He will come to
apologize, i

PH T+1 advised on June 17,.1964, that NARDUCCI and
JOSEPH LAZZARO had been at Dante's Restaurant the previous:
\ Saturday and had gotten into an argument with MALITO, a long-
time friend of ANGELO. BRUNO and O's former close associate
PETER CASELLA, who 18 now 4n prison,

_

\

\

At approximately 4:00 a.m., June 19, 1964 ,..SOSEPH _
LITO, FBI Identification Number 867-929C, and JUDITH
PINSON were shot ‘to death in the.basement of Dante's Restaurant

on Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, © MALITO and LOPINSON were ~
murdered by ‘three shots, each fired at close range, into the
heads. JUDITH LOPINSON's husband JACK was shot’ once in the leg
and claimed'that the shootings occurred during and. subsequent. to
an armed robbery of Dante's Restaurant. ‘

Gg PH T-1 advised on June 23, 1964, that stories were
circulated among Philadelphia racket personalities which indicated
that FRANK NARDUCCI and JOSEPH LAZZARO played no part in -
MALITO's‘murder'despite the fact they had been engaged in a bitter
quarrel with him a week previous, during which quarrel a gun

was drawn. Racket personalities are of the opinion, according

to PH T-1, that JACK LOPINSON, husband of victim JUDITH, was

the one who actually murdered his wife and MALITO and ‘subsequently

shot. himself in the leg,

~38-

Docld:32299522 Page 30


en caae

PH T-3 advised on June 30, 1964, that RAYMOND MARTORANO
had been a partner in Dante's Restaurant before JOSEPH MALITO’
bought out his interest, .

Both ANGELO BRUNO and FRANK NARDUCCI were served
subpoenaes commanding ‘their appearances before a Coroner's
Inquest. into both murders, Neither BRUNO nor NARDUCCI were
actually called upon to testify because true bills were returned
by the Philadelphia County Grand Jury. subsequent to the
Coroner's Inquest, charging JACK LOPINSON, husband of JUDITH,
and Teamster Local 107. "labor. goon" FRANK "HATCHET" PHELAN ~
with both murders. ca seca ae :

RALPHAMARANCA
6931, Sténton Avenue

rp
=

MARANCA is ANGELO BRUNO's brother-in-law. _MARANCA
is presently employed at the Philadelphia-New. Jensey_Express
‘Company, where“he is in charge of the "platform."°. This. company

is owned by BRUNO's associate TONY COPPOLA, eee

a “
SAMUEL GOLIS ape
_ M2 wntbby Aveme — 7K2 APPZ
Yeadon, “Pa. Beat
PH T-1 advised on March 25,1964, RAYMOND MARTORANO
told. ANGELO BRUNO that a friend ‘of SAM{MARGOLIS and FRANK
PALERMO from: New Jersey wanted to borrow $1,500. It. was: not
indicated to the informant if this loan was ‘approved by. BRUNO.

PH T-1 advised on March 28, 1964, that SAM MARGOLIS
owned the controlling interest in prizefighter CHARLES SONNY
LISTON. Further details concerning this matter are set out
hereinafter. : : :

PH T-3 advised on July 30, 1964, that SALVATORE AVENA,
accompanied by SAM MARGOLIS , attempted to locate ANGELO BRUNO” 3

-39-

\

Docld:32299522 Page 31


ty

at the Friendly. Bar, Eighth and Washington Avenue, but were

2 because BRUNO had departed prior to their arrival,
RAYMOND “MARTORANO

RA
—102-Bast- 13th Street maser ae

PH T-1 advised on March 5,.1964, that ANGELO BRUNO,
RAYMOND MARTORANO, and FRANK PALERMO were at DE TULLIO's:
Friendly Bar,’ Eighth and Washington Avenue, at midnight.

PH T-1 advised that on March 9, 1964, RAYMOND MARTORANO
spoke privately with ANGELO. BRUNO at Penn Jersey Vending Company.

PH T-1- advised.on March 11, 1964, that RAYMOND
MARTORANO entered Penn Jersey: Vending Company with GEORGE
BUCHER, an international representative of the Upholsterers
Union... ‘MARTORANO, BRUNO, | BUCHER, and SONNY RICCOBENE had a 2
private ‘eonversation, '

PH T-3 advised on Mareh 16, 1964, that BRUNO met
with RAYMOND MARTORANO and TQNATIUS DENARO at DENARO's Cafe '
Internazionale.

PH.T~1 advised on March 19, 1964, RAYMOND MARTORANO : |
visited Penn Jersey Vending Company .

On March 25,1964, PH T-1 learned RAYMOND MARTORANO
told ANGELO BRUNO that a friend of SAM MORGOLIS and FRANK <
PALERMO from New Jersey wanted to borrow $15 5000 °°

PH T-2 advised on April 8, 196}, that RAYMOND MARTORANO,
accompanied by GINO DIATELUILO, visited Penn Jersey Vending:
Company. .

PH 1-2 advised on April 14, 1964, that John's Vending
Company, the-principal of which 1s RAYMOND MARTORANO, ‘had lent
SOLLIE GLEANER $13,000 from the corporation at. the time GLEANER
purchased the Place, which 1s located at 12th and Sansom Streets,

~ho-

Docld:32299522 Page 32


I

>

&u

cia

MARTORANO claimed he "stood good" for the loan and charged
one-half of one per cent interest, MARTORANO believes that
he will lose $1,000 as a result of his deal with GLEANER.

On the same date, PH T-2 advised that JOE KANEFSKY,
aka Joe Kane, tried to borrow $1,000 from MARTORANO for the
Candy Cane Lounge. MARTORANO held this loan in abeyance until

ANGELO BRUNO would give his okay for the loan,

PH T-2 advised on April 16, 1964, FRANK NARDUCCL
visited Penn Jersey Vending Company and claimed he was unable
to repay RAYMOND MARTORANO the money which he had received
from his as a loan because he, NARDUCCI, had just been released
from the hospital, ©

PH T-2 advised on April 17, 1964, RAYMOND MARTORANO
was observed in the company of FRANK D'ATTILLIO, FELIX JOHN -
DE TULLIO, and EDWARD TIESI, all of whom were with their
wives, at the Friendly Bar, Eighth and Washington Avenue,
Philadelphia, Pa., during the night of April 17, 1964, PH T-2
also advised RAYMOND MARTORANO was building a swimming pool
at his residence in Wildwood, N. J.

On April 28, 1964, RAYMOND MARTORANO advised ANGELO
BRUNO that ALFIA TESTA's cousin, who was a barber at Eighth
and Catharine Streets, had died and the viewing would take
place during the evening of April 29, 1964, at Ingenito's
Funeral Home, Eighth and Christian Streets,

PH T-2 advised on April 29, 1964, RAYMOND MARTORANO
informed BRUNO that he intended to discuss with IGNATIUS DENARO
the Pennsylvania law sponsored by Senator of the State of
Pennsylvania CHARLES WEINER, which could possibly make it legal
for DENARO to keep his Cafe Internazionale open on Sunday.

PH.T-2 advised on May 1, 1964, that RAYMOND MARTORANO
was looking for ANGELO BRUNO to tell him that FRANK D'ATTILLIO
was opening a luncheonette at 301 South 52nd Street and that
he desired a cigarette machine on which he wanted three cents
commission per pack of. cigarettes sold, a $200 gift, and a

-ALe

Docld:32299522 Page 33


oe
O

tay

$500 loan for giving MARTORANO the business. MARTORANO- sub-
sequently contacted A IO: BRUNO and told him of DtATTILLIO'ts
demands. and BRUNO became extremely angry at D'ATTILLIO, ~~
stating D'ATFILLIO should accept new machines on BRUNO's terms.

PH T-2 advised on May 2, 1964, that. RAYMOND MARTORANO,
accompanied by his wife, sat with SONNY RICCOBENE ‘and his wife;
FRED D'ANGELO. and GEORGE BUCHER, the latter two: representing the
Upholsterer's Union, at Palumbo's Restaurant, second floor,
the ‘site of the wedding reception for LOU LALLI's stepson
ANTHONY, Also present ‘at: this time seated at another table were’
ANGELO BRUNO, FELIX JOHN DE: TULLIO, and others.

PH T-2 advised on May 5, 1964, RAYMOND MARTORANO
visited Penn Jersey Vending Company.

PH T-2 advised on May 20, 1964, RAYMOND MARTORANO
attempted to contact ANGELO BRUNO at Penn Jersey Vending Company,
but was unsuccessful.

PH T-2 advised on May 21, 1964, that RAYMOND MARTORANO
met with ANGELO BRUNO at Penn Jersey Vending Company and’ again
later during the day BRUNO met with 1 MARTORANO at ALFONSO
MATORIELLO's barber: shop.

On May 26, 1964, RAYMOND MARTORANO, accompanied by
Conon DIATTILLTO, spoke with ANGELO BRUNO at Penn Jersey Vending
ompany « fe

PH T-2 advised on May 29, 1964, RAYMOND MARTORANO
paid ANGELO BRUNO a commission check in the amount of $709.38.
This commission check was.for the month of April 1964 and
represented BRUNO's commission for approximately 105 locations.

~he-

Docld:32299522 Page 34


PH 92-444
EDH: pgo

(1) eA

PaSQUA £MASsr, Ty
ka PAT oo

_ ined Park Boulevard,

camden, N. J.
SSS
PH T-1 advised on March 27, 1964, that PASQUALE

MASSI visited ANGELO BRUNO at Penn Jersey Vending Company.
MASSI informed BRUNO that. he had just returned from
visiting his girl friend, whom he identified as GRACE,

who was a patient at Einstein’ Medical Center, Southern
Division, 5th and Reed Streets, Philadelphia, Pa.

MASSI's girl friend was ‘treated by a heart specialist,

She 1s a resident of the South Philadelphia area and was
checking out of the hospital on March 27, 1964.  MASSI
informed BRUNO on this occasion that he had seen FRANK
NARDUCCL. at. the Einstein Medical Center as NARDUCCI was

a patient there also; MASSI told BRUNO that he intended
to return to Italy and wanted to know from BRUNO if there
was anything fculd possibly do for BRUNO's exiled :
cousin, CALOGERO SINATRA. BRUNO told MASSI not to bother
SINATRA and not to make contact with him. MASSI's visit
with BRUNO lasted for approximately two hours.

PH. T-2 advised on May 2, 1964, that PAT MASSI
was in the vicinity of 8th‘and Dickinson Streets, Phila-
delphia, Pa., and did not indicate the precise date he
intended to return to Italy.

PH T-2 advised on May 15, 1964, that JACK
WILLIAMS informed ANGELO BRUNO that PAT MASSI was very
sick.and had been confined to a hospital in Rome, Italy,
as a result of a heart attack.

PH T-3 advised on July 13, 1964, that PAT
MASSI sent word to ANGELO BRUNO. through RALPH DE FLAVIS
that he, MASSI, is constantly under surveillance by the
Italian Police,and that BRUNO should stay away from him
on his next visit: to Italy.

‘ ig

Docld:32299522 Page 35


PH 92-444
(2)

aka Frankig) ndel,
«<-Brocklehurst_. Street ’
““Philadelphia, Pa.

eel
PH T-1 advised on March 19, 1964, that FELIX JOHN
DE TULLIO intended to attend the wedding reception of
PRANK MATTEO's niece at the Germantown Community Center,
Lincoln: Drive, Philadelphia, Pa., on March 22, 1964,
PH T-1 stated that ANGELO BRUNO would also be there.

“On Sunday, March 22, 1964, SA EDWARD D, HEGARTY
observed ANGELO BRUNO and his wife SUE emerge froma
1962 white Impala Chevrolet, bearing New Jersey license
tag GGT 198, and subsequently enter the Germantown Jewish
Community Center, Lincoln Drive, Philadelphia, Pa. SA
HEGARTY also observed on this occasion SAMUEL HOFFMAN
and his wife BETTY, MAX WEISBERG and his wife ANN, and
SYLVAN SCOLNICK,

PH T-1 advised on March 23, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO told him he had attended the wedding reception of
FRANK MATTEO's niece on the previous day.

PH T-2 advised on April 8, 1964, that LOU LALLI
left an invitation for FRANK MATTEO to LALLI's stepson,
ANTHONY's, wedding reception for bar oe 2, 1964, at the offices
of Penn Jersey Vending Company, to be delivered to MATTEO.

PH T-2 advised on April 10, 1964, MATTEO's
wedding invitation to the May 2, 1964, wedding was delivered
to FRANK MATTEO. In addition, MATTEO was given SAM
HOFFMAN's invitation to the LALLI wedding, delivered to
HOFFMAN by MATTEO,

PH T-2 advised on April 11, 1964, MATTEO sent
word to ANGELO BRUNO that he did not want SYLVAN. SCOLNICK
or SOL BASEN invited to LOU LALLI's stepson's wedding
reception. -

PH T-2 advised on May 1, 1964, that MAX WEISBERG
was at the Penn Jersey Vending Company looking for ANGELO

- 4h

Docld:32299522 Page 36


PH 92—4iy
* (3)

BRUNO, BRUNO did not show up for his meeting with WEISBERG,
and WEISBERG stated that he was: leaving the vicinity of

. 8th and Catharine Streets, and‘ was proceeding to 4th and
Gaskill: Streets, where he would meet with FRANK MATTEO,

: PH T-2 advised on May 2, 1964; that FRANK
MATTEO attended the wedding reception for LOU LALLI's
stepson, ANTHONY, at .Palumbo's Restaurant.

PH 2-2 advised on May 13,-1964, MAX WEISBERG,
ncsompanted by FRANK MATTEO, visited Penn Jersey ‘Vending
Company and spoke with! ANGELO BRUNO. Subsequently,
MATTEO and WEISBERG departed the vicinity of 8th and
Catharine Streets in the company of FELIX JOHN DE TULLIO.

PH T-2 advised on May al, 1964, that FRANK
MATTEO had an appointment to seé ANGELO BRUNO at 3:00 p.m.
Subsequently, . FRANK MATTEO joined ANGELO. BRUNO at Ralph's
Restaurant, 9th and Catharine Streets, Philadelphia, Pa.

: . PH T-3 advised on June 6, 1964, ANGELO: BRUNO
was observed in the vicinity of 8th and Christian Streets,
and FRANKIE MENDEL was observed with SAM HOFFMAN in SAM

~ -CARRACCIOLO's barber shop. It..was not known to PH T-3
whether. or not MENDEL or ‘HOFFMAN spoke with ANGELO BRUNO.

AUGUST: AZZIO 9

aka Guss iddens, - yw
Washington Park Apartments,

Camden, N.S.

PH T-1. advised on March 19, 1964, that during a
discussion between AUGUSTINE MAZZIO, FRANK D'ATTILLIO, and
FELIX. JOHN DE TULLIO, it-was indicated ‘ANGELO BRUNO would
attend ‘the wedding reception being given for FRANK MATTEO's
niece. These persons met at the Friendly Bar, 8th and
Washington Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa.

PH T-1 advised on March 23, 1964, that AUGUSTINE
MAZZTO spoke with ANGELO BRUNO at the Penn Jersey Vending
ompany .

- 45 -

Docld:32299522 Page 37


PH 92-444
(4)

On April 25, 1964, PH T-2 advised that FRANK
SINDONE told ANGELO BRUNO that he had been picked up by
Police Officers assigned.to Philadelphia Police Department
Captain JAMES KEAN. -He was picked up on a numbers lottery
charge. -BRUNO told SINDONE not to get "“frésh" with KEAN,
and described KEAN as a good guy, and stated that "every-
thing is under control." SINDONE stated that AUGUSTINE
MAZZIO, aka. Gussie Giddens, is paying off not only KEAN,
but also officers assigned to his detail.

PH T-2 advised on May 4, 1964, that FRANK SINDONE
informed ANGELO BRUNO that AUGUSTINE MAZZIO wished to
speak with him. BRUNO told SINDONE to contact MAZZIO,
and to tell him that he should see BRUNO at 3:30 p.m.
during the same day, and should be alone when he contacts
BRUNO,

On May 21, 1964, FRANK NARDUCCI discussed with
ANGELO BRUNO the arrest of FRANK SINDONE on May 21, 1964,
. on a numbers charge by the Philadelphia Police. NARDUCCI
stated that SINDONE's arrest was a "frame," and that SONNY
RICCOBENE had informed NARDUCCI on the previous day that
the Police intended to place numbers slips under the hood
of SINDONE's car, which in fact, did happen on May 21,
1964. Subsequently, BRUNO told SINDONE he should see
AUGUSTINE MAZZIO concerning the arrest because MAZZIO is
paying off Captain KEAN's men, and he would be able to
take care of SINDONE's arrest.

On May 26, 1964, PH T-2 advised that. FRANK
D'ATTILLIO. discussed with. ANGELO BRUNO a proposed bingo
game: operation which was being organized by D'ATTILLIO
and AUGUSTINE MAZZIO, and would operate in "colored
churches,". BRUNO instructed D'ATPILLIO to tell MAZZIO
that he should not give away any "pieces" of the bingo
games without first clearing with BRUNO. BRUNO told
DIATTILLIO that he would decide to whom pieces of the
action should be given.

- 46 ~

\

DocId:32299522 Page 38


. ry
5 o%
oe

PH P-1 advised on March 9,— 1964, that: ANGELO
BRUNO. spoke with FRANK MONTH. in the vicinity. of 8th and
Catharine Streets, Philadelphia, Pas: :

PH T-1 advised on Maren 14,..1964, that he .
learned ‘that. FRANK MONTE was approximately 90° miles away
from the Philadélphia area, and was under instructions
to make a ‘telephone’ call to ANGELO: BRUNO from his unknown
location. ‘PH T-1 learned later during the day of March
14,1964, that ANGELO BRUNO had, in fact, made a tele-
phone call to FRANK. MONTE,

PH T-1 learned ‘on March 17, 1964, that FRANK
MONTE visited ANGELO BRUNO at the Penn Jersey Vending
Company.

PH T-2 advised on April 15, 1964, that FRANK
MONTE handled an errand for ANGELO BRUNO during the day. :

PH..T-2 advised on April 20, 1964, that BRUNO
was again in contact: with: FRANK Mowre, and BRUNO again
sent MONTE on an errand. MONTS indleated to PH T-2 that

~he was’ employed in a different "numbers office" for

BRUNO, during this. day.

PH T-2 advised on April 25,.1964, that BRUNO
distributed invitations to the wedding of THERESE.
SCAFIDI, and that’ one of these invitations was for FRANK
MONTE.

PH T-2 advised on April 28, 1964, that MONTE
informed ANGELO BRUNO that AL: SCHWARTZ, Philadelphia ~
bondsman, would see BRUNO en. April 30, 1964.

: PH T-2. advised on May 14, 1964, tet FRANK
SINDONE had sought advice from ANGELO BRUNO ‘on the .

oe aT

Docld:32299522 Page 39


PH 92-4ud
(6)

reorganization of a crap game, BRUNO instructed SINDONE
.not to employ FRANK NARDUCCI at the game because he is on
probation, SINDONE told BRUNO that he was not using
FRANK MONTE because MONTE has a pending numbers ease in
the Phidadelphia courts,

FRANKANARDUCCL,
aka-Chickte, ( \.
__.523_Morris..Street, ee
“Philadelphia, — “Pa.

PH T-1 advised on March 11, 1964, that FRANK
pisinetains visited ANGELO BRUNO at the Penn Jersey Vending
ompany .

PH T-1 advised on March 17, 1964, that FRANK
NARDUCCI attempted to contact ANGELO BRUNO, but was
unsuccessful,

PH T-1 advised on March 18, 1964, that FRANK
NARDUCCI spoke with ANGELO BRUNO and informed him that he
was scheduled to have a hernia operation to be. performed
on him at Mount Sinai Hospital -by DR. RAYMOND SYLK.
BRUNO on this occasion cautioned NARDUCCI to stay away
from the "crap game" because he was on probation, and he
would be incarcerated if. he violated the probation order.
BRUNO also instructed NARDUCCI to inform JOHN CAPPELLO
that he would not be at the crap game.

PH T-1 advised on March 20, 1964, that FRANK
NARDUCCI informed ANGELO BRUNO that he would be hospitalized
during the forthcoming week. NARDUCCL, BRUNO, and FRANK
SINDONE were observed by PH T-2 entering 740 Christian
Street.

(

PH T-2 advised on April 10, 1964, that FRANK
NARDUCCI was dismissed from the Einstein Medical Center
on April 8, 1964. PH T-2 learned on this occasion that
NARDUCCI had borrowed $600 from RAYMOND MARTORANO for the
purpose of opening a Goldstar American Legion Post with

- 4g - :

DocId:32299522 Page 40


PH g2-Mdil,
(7)

- WILLIE AVERONA, The club subsequently failed arid MARTORANO
has been pressuring NARDUCCI for repayment of the $600.

PH T-2 learned on April 14, .1964, that RAYMOND
MARTORANO was disturbed. over FRANK NARDUCCI not having
made a payment during the five week period of the $600
which he had borrowed. MARTORANO sought BRUNO's assistance
in collecting from NARDUCCI on April 14, 1964.

PH T-2 advised on April 24, 1964, that FRANK
NARDUCCI was looking for ANGELO BRUNO in the vicinity of
. Sth and Catharine Streets. PH T-2 advised that BRUNO
was in Miami, Fla., during this day.

PH T-2 advised on April 25, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO spoke to FRANK NARDUCCI on April 25, 1964. Fe

PH T-2 advised on April 29, 1964, that FRANK
NARDUCCI spoke with ANGELO (0 at the Penn Jersey Vending
Company. NARDUCCI informed BRUNO that FRANK NARDUCCL
wanted to buy WILLIE AVERONA's liquor license for the
Goldstar American Legion Post in South Philadelphia,
and that AVERONA wanted $2000 for the license. NARDUCCI
wanted to borrow the $2000 from ANGELO BRUNO; however,
BRUNO indicated that he did not care to become involved
with it at the time. On this occasion NARDUCCI was with

~ ANGELO BRUNO for approximately one hour. ~

PH T-2 learned on April 30, 1964, that FRANK
NARDUCCI expected to open the Goldstar American Legion
Post over the following weekend in partnership with a man
who lived directly across the street from the Goldstar
Post. NICHOLAS PICCOLO was looking for ANGELO BRUNO at
Penn Jersey Vending Company, but BRUNO was not present,
NICKY BUCK, that is NICHOLAS PICCOLO, departed Penn
Jersey Vending Company in FRANK NARDUCCI's car.

PH T-2 advised on May 4, 1964, that FRANK
NARDUCCI spoke with ANGELO BRUNO at the Penn Jersey
Vending Company.

: - 49 -

n

Docld:32299522 Page 41


&

PH 92-44
(8)

PH T-2 learned on May 14, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO
instructed FRANK SINDONE not to employ FRANK NARDUCCI at
SINDONE's crap game because NARDUCCI was on-probation.

- ° PH.T-2 advised on May 21, 1964, that NARDUCCL
informed ANGELO. BRUNO of FRANK q SENDONE ' 8 arrest, which
NARDUCCI claimed was a "frame," which arrest took place
on May 21,°1964, by Officers assigned to Captain JAMES
KEAN, of the Philadelphia Police Department.

PH T-2 advised on May. 26, 1964, that FRANK ©
D'ATTILLIO complained to ANGELO (© that he had: loaned
FRANK NARDUCCI a ‘sum of money, which money NARDUCCI had
not repaid. BRUNO told D'ATTILLIO that he should have

checked with him, ~ BRUNO, - before loaning this money to

NARDUCCI,

-PH f-8 advised on May 28, 1964, that FRANK i
NARDUCCI was on the ‘payroll of the: Philadelphia -New Tereey
Express. Company, owned and operated by TONY COPPOLA, a
-BRONO associate.

PH T-3. advised that FRANK. NARDUCCI, Pp merpr
by JOSEPH LAZZARO, visited Dante's Restaurant, Chestnut
Street, Philadelphia, Pa., on June 13, 1963, at which time
-NARDUCCI became engaged in a violent quarrel with JOSEPH
MALITO,  MALITO,’ who 1s also known as JOE FLOWERS, was .
known as-an.associate of ANGELO BRUNO for many years.

On June 19, 1964, JOSEPH MALITO was murdered
on the premises of Dante's Restaurant. On the day prior
to MALITO's murder, ANGELO BRUNO dined in the restaurant,

“and MALITO sat’at BRUNO's table, MALITO told BRUNO on
this occasion that.he had a matter he wished to discuss

privately with ANGELO BRUNO, and that he hada favor —
he ‘would.like to ask of BRUNO. BRUNO on this o¢casion
-eut MALITO short, and stated that he had already taken
eare of it, and that CHICK, that is NARDUCCI, would
apologize to ‘him,

50 -

Docld:32299522 Page 42


oO en

PH T-1 advised on March 9, 1964, that FRANK
NICOLETTI was: present while ANGELO. BRUNO. had a ay purine
With MAX, WEISBERG, of Penn Jersey Vending Company.
the afternoon of March 9, 1964," BRUNO instructed WIcoLeTt
to pick him up at his’ home at 11:00 p.m.

PH T-1 advised on March 11, 1964, that FRANK
NICOLETTI was in the company of ANGELO BRUNO when BRUNO
met with NICHOLAS PICCOLO and RAYMOND MARTORANO at 740
Christian Street. :
: PH T-1 advised on 1 March 13; 1964, that he
_ ‘observed ANGELO BRUNO arriving in the vieinity of 8th and
- Catharine Streets in ‘the company of FRANK NICOLETTI in
NICOLETTI's automobile.

PH T-1 advised: on March'14, 1964, that FRANK
NICOLETTI was with ANGELO BRUNO at Tho Christian Street,
Subsequently, ‘they both. departed and wére not in the
vieinity of 8th and Christian Streets throughout the
afternoon until NICOLETTT chauffeured BRUNO to ALFONSO
MAIORIELLO's barber’ shep at 8th and. Christian Streets,

PH T-1 advised. on March 16, 1964, that FRANK
NICOLETTI was. with ANGELO. BRUNO: at Penn Jersey Vending
Company.

PH.T-1 advised on March 17, 1964, that. FRANK
_NICOLETTI picked up ANGELO BRUNO at MATORTELLO's barber
shop, and both departed the. area in a-196l/or 1962
Oldsmobile... During the afternoon BRUNO and FRANK”
NICOLETTI visited the home of ALFIA : ‘TESTA, wife of post-
BRUNO associate PHILIP’ “TESTA. oe

PH T-1 ‘advised on March 19, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO joined NICOLETTI at MATORTELLOS barber shop during
the early afternoon hours. 7

- 52 --

Docld:32299522 Page 43


|
|
|
|
|

, Christian Street. PH T-1 advised
‘March 24, 1964, he observed FRANK ‘NICOLBTTI, accompanied

O
O

nee

| PH T-1 advised on March 20, 1964, that he observed
FRANK NICOLETTI and ANGELO BRUNO in NICOLETTI's car in the

‘wieinity of 6th and Christian Streets.

. PH T-1 advised on March 23, 196i, that he obsérved
FRANK NICOLETEI at the’ Penn Jersey Vending Company. Sub-
sequently, he “recognized | NICOLETTI: and BRUNO jeaving Penn
Jersey” Vending Company and subsequently entering 740°
d-that at about 12:20 aim.,

by ANGELO BRUNO, entering the’ Friendly. Bay, 8th'and
Washington Avenue. During the afternoon of March 24,1964,
he observed BRUNO and FRANK NICOLETII. “playing cards at

740. Christian Street.

° PH T-1 advised on March 25, 1964, that. BRUNO,
aécompanied by FRANK “NICOLETTI, spoke with FRANK LOSCALZO
at 740 Christian Street... LOSCALZO informed. BRUNO and” :
NICOLETTI. that: FBI Agents had visited IGNAZIO DENARO earlier
during. the ‘day, and that the Agents had» also Spoken with”
hin, LOSCALZO..

PH T-1 advised on March 27, 1964, FRANK NICOLETTI
joinéd. ANGELO BRUNO at. Penn.J rsey Vending Company: and.
subsequently they departed together, at about 1: 00° p.m.
BRUNO ‘and NICOLETTI returned at about 2: 30 p.m. NICOLETTI
left Penn’ Jersey: Vending Company. at about. 3: 50 p.m,

PH T-2 ddvised on April 3,-1964, that. PRANK ~

.NICOLETTI was. observed by him at Penn Jersey. ‘Vending.

Company. ;

PH T~2 advised on April 6, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO was with FRANK NICOLETTT at ho Christian Street.
BRUNO departed alone, . and minutes later the Philadelphia E
Police Departnient entered 740 Christian Street and’

‘searched FRANK NICOLETTI, The Philadelphia Police
Srrested. J FRAN K LOSCALZO, but did not arrest NICOLEETE,

- 53.-

Docld:32299522 Page 44


PE gets

PH T-2 advised on April A 1964, that LOU LALLI
had left an invitation for FRANK NICOLETTI to attend the
wedding reception on May 2, 1964, “ror LALLI's stepson,
ANTHONY, at Penn Jersey Vending Company, to be delivered
to NICOLETTI.

PH T-2 advised on April.15, 1964, that FRANK
NICOLETTI was “in the company of ANGELO BRUNO and ALFRED
IEZZI when they discussed LOU. CAMPBELL,. 639 Randolph ~~
Street, Camden, No J.

PH.T-2 advised on April 16, 1964, that he
observed FRANK NICOLETTI, of Penn Jersey Vending ‘Company,
in the company of. MAX -WE[SBERG .

~~ PH T+2 advised on April 17, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO, in the company of FRANK NICOLETII, departed. from”
the vicinity of 8th and Catharine Streets in NICOLETII's
automobile.”

: PH T-2 advised on April 25, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO gave .FRANK NICOLETTI ten. invitations to be distributed
‘for the wedding reception for THERESE SCAFIDI.

PH T-2 advised. on April 28, 1964, that he
observed FRANK NICOLETTI and ANGELO BRUNO entering’ the
hog” of ALFIA TESTA, wife of BRUNO . associate, PHILIP TESTA.

PH T-2 advised. on April 30, 1964, he observed
FRANK NICOLETIT chauffeuring ANGELO BRUNO in the vicinity
“of. 8th and: Christian Streets. : :

PH T~2 advised on May 1, 1964, that he
ebserved ANGELO BRUNO, FRANK NICOLETTI, and JOHN SIMONE
departing from the area of 8th and Christian Streets in
PRANK NICOLETTI's automobile.

z PH T-2 advised on May 2, 1964, that FRANK
NICOLETTI was observed by him at approximately noon time

- 5h -

Docld:32299522 Page 45


(

cS ca

at Penn Jersey Venditg Company. PH T-2. stated that he
had learned during the day that BRUNO returned to Penn
Jersey Vending Company during the. late afternoon and
waited there for FRANK NICOLETIT,

PH T-2 advised on May 4, 1964, that he observed
FRANK NICCLETTI: in the company of ANGELO BRUNO at T4O
Christian Street.

PH T-2 advised.on May 6,.1964, that he observed
FRANK NICGLETEI, accompanied by ANGELO BRUNO, departing
from the vicinity of 8th ala Christian Streets in
NICOLETTI's, automobile at approximately 1:35 p.m. ‘BRUNO
and NICOLETTI returned to 8th and Christian Streets at
about 4:00.p.m., at which time they were discussing
‘ERNEST VIGILANTE in uncomplimentary terms.

PH T=2 advised on May 8, 1964, that FRANK
NICOLETTI picked’ up ANGELO BRUNO at MATORIELLO's barber
‘shop: at, approximately 1:00 p.m. and brought BRUNO back to
8th and Christian ‘Streets at 5:15 Bom.

PH 7-2 advised on May 9, 1964, that NICOLETTI
claimed that he had chauffeured BRUNO during the previous
‘day.

On May 9, 1964, NICOLETEI and BRUNO met at
MAIORIELLO's barber shop and subsequently went to meet
ARTIE COLIANNI and IGNAZIO DENARO at the Cafe Inter-
nazionale,

PH T=2 advised on May 11, 1964, that FRANK
NICOLETTI Was again during the day chauffeuring ANGELO

én May 12, 1964, PH T-2 advised that NICOLETIT
was present with ANGELO BRUNO at Broad and Locust Streets
when GEORSE KATZ asked BRUNO what the winning number was

- 55 =

Docld:32299522 Page 46


l

x geet

on thé previous day, that is, for May.11, 1964, KATZ
stated that he desired to know this on.behalf of his —

brother, TOMMY FOLEY. “NICOLETTI told KATZ the matter had

been straightened out by BRUNO, ‘and that the winning number
was 314,

PH T-2 advised on May 13,.1964,; that he
observed. FRANK NICOLETTI Speaking with ANGELO BRUNO at
Penn Jersey Vending Company.

PH T-2 advised on May 15, 1964, that FRANK
NICOLETTI was in the company of: ANGELO ‘BRUNO during the
afternoon hours.

~~" PH. T-2 advised on May 21, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO made, inquiry. at OLAS ‘PICCOLO's restaurant. in
effort to locate FRANK. NICOLETTI.

__. On May 21, 1964, FRANK NICOLETTI was. observed
with ANGELO BRUNO at MATORIELLO's: barber shop.

~ Of May 21,. 1964, PH T-2. observed FRANK NICOLETTI
chaufteuring ANGELO BRUNO . in Center City Philadelphia. :

PH T-2 advised on May 23, 1964, that FRANK
NICOLETTI was. present during a‘ discussion between BEN”
GOLOB. and ANGELO BRUNO at the Penn. Jersey Vending Company.

PH 73 advised on June 2, 1964, that FRANK
NICOLETTI was. in the company of ANGELO BRUNO at’.740
Christian Street; and indicated that he had been with
BRUNO during the night of June 1, 1964.

PH T-3 advised.on June 3, 1964, that he .observed
FRANK NICOLETII: in the .company ‘of ANGELO BRUNO in the
vicinity’ of ‘8th and Christian Streets.” .

PH T=3 advised on June 4, 1964, that he’
observed NICOLETTI and BRUNO leaving MAIORIELLO's barber

- 56.- .

Docld:32299522 Page 47


Y

7)

io

(5)

shop at 12:30 p.m. together and observed both of them‘
returning at about 2:50' p.m. when both "BRUNO and. NICOLETTI
departed in separate automobiles, me acne

PH T-3 advised on June 13, 1964, that he observed
FRANK NICOLETTI in the’ company’ of ANGELO BRUNO at :
“MATORIELLO's barber shop, at which time BRUNO informed
NICOLETTI that he ‘had a meeting at DE TULLIO's Friendly
Bar Scheduled for 10:00 p.m.

: _PH T-3 advised on July 9, 1964, that FRANK
NICOLETTI ‘congratulated ANGELO ‘BRUNO on his acquittal
from Federal charges, U.S. ‘District Court,: Philadelphia,

PH T-3 advised ‘on July 11, 1964, that he :
Observed FRANK NICOLEPTI and ANGHLO’ BRUNO at ‘MATORIELLO'
barber shop; “Subsequently, he observed ‘them ‘both departing
for the purpose of Seeing IGNAZIO DENARO. ~

PH T-3 advised on July 28,1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO wag in the company of ‘FRANK NICOLETTI from’ 1: 00° psm.
.£0°3:00 p.m. : Peseta

On July 29,.1964, PH T-3 advised that he learned
from. FRANK NICOLETTI that, ANGELO BRUNO had departed from:
Philadelphia the’ previous evening, and that it was "important :
that he go away." ~ :

DOMINICKY SLIVETO,
Witherspoon Avenue,
Pennsauken, N>“o--——.
PH T-2 advised on May 15,-1964, that ANGELO BRUNO

had a discussion with JACK WILLIAMS, “WILLIAMS told ‘BRUNO
that DOMINICK OLIVETO is handling his races.

~ BT -

Docld:32299522 Page 48



if

ages Bebe”
21). South uth Lynn’ Boulevard,
Upper Derby, PBs

PALERMO 1s now ineareerated, having begun his
sentence which arose .from a Seavestion in U, S. District
Court, Los -Angeles, Calif.

: PE T-1 advised on March 5, 1964, that FRANK
PALERMO visited Penn Jersey Vending Company in efforts
to. locate ANGELO BRUNO, but was unsuccessful. PALERMO
indicated that he would see BRUNO later in the day at.” ~
DE TULLIO's Bar, 8th and Washington Avenue, Philadelphia.

PH T-1 advised on March 16, 1964, that. he
learned from GEORGE KATZ that the reason ANGELO. BRUNO,
MAZ WEISBERG, SAM MARGOLIS, FELIX JOHN DE TULLIO, and—
FRANK PALERMO have had frequent: meetings in the recent
past 18 due to discussions concerning SONNY LISTON's |
contract.

PH T-1 advised on March 25, 1964, that RAYMOND
MARTORANO told ANGELO BRUNO that a friend of SAM MARGOLIS
and FRANK PALERMO from New Jersey wanted to borrow $1, 500.

PH T-2 advised on May 1, 1964, that FRED PALERMO,
brother of. FRANK PALERMO, visited Penn Jersey Vending
Company in an effort’ to locate ANGELO BRUNO, but was
unsuccessful. ° :

PETEAPANTALEO,
< Philadelphia, Pa...

PH T-1 advised on March 5, 1964, that PETE
PANTALEO visited Penn Jersey Vending Company in an effort

to obtain ANGELO BRUNO's assistance in getting him a
taproom at a location unknown to PH T-1.

- 58 ~

Docld:32299522 Page 49


| PH 92-Ui
(17

PETE PANTALEO visited ANGELO BRUNO at the Penn
Jersey Vending Company, according to PH T-1, on March 13,
1964, BRUNO informed PANTALEO that the taproom he was
considering purehasing would cost $21,000.

PH T-2 advised on May 12, 1964, that BRUNO was
in cortaet With PETE PANTALEO, and gave him two telephone
humbers where he could be reached. PANTALEO apparently
desired to speak with ADAM D'OLIO,

Newfield ed.
——SS ee

PH T-2 advised on April 13, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO was in contact with ANTHONY PERELLA and a second
person who accompanied PERELLA, who was unknown to PH T-2,
It appeared to PH T-2 that BRUNO was setting up an —
appoint for PERELLA to meet with an unknown party.

ERNIE “PERRICONE,
= 22TH (4 South.23rd-Street,
iladelphia 2 Pa.

- PH £-2 advised on Mey 13, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO had a discussion with ERNIE PERRICONE, TONY COPPOLA,
JOE (LNU), and FELIX JOHN DE TULLIO concerning labor
problems that TONY COPPOLA was having at the Philadelphia-
New Jersey Express Company.

; PH 1-8 advised on May 28, 1964, that_"BIG ERNIE"
~Yfesnzcane was.on the payroll of the Philadelphia-New Jersey
Express Company, and had been used, along with FRANK
NARDUCCI, by TONY COPPOLA to straighten out union troubles
at the trucking company by intimidating troublemakers at:

the company.

- 59 -

L

Docld:32299522 Page 50


PH 92—444

(18)
sossputerccoro,

sLithland_ Christi.
Philadel. Pa.

5 a :
PH T-2 advised on April 25, 1964; that ANGELO
BRUNO gave an invitation>to the wedding reception of
THERESE SCAFIDI to JOSEPH PICCOLO.
rs)

roncyad rote, Micky
wi O19 Fit zwat: treet, st
Philadelphia, Pa.

PH f-1 advised on-March 9, 1964, that he observed.
ANGELO BRUNO, FRANK NICOLETTI, and NICHOLAS PICCOLO
together at Tho Christian Street.

: PH T-1 advised on March.11, 1964, that he
‘observed ANGELO BRUNO, FRANK NICOLETTI, NICHOLAS PICCOLO,
and RAYMOND MARTORANO at: 740 Christian Street together.

PH T=1 advised on March 27, 1964, he observed
NICHOLAS PICCOLO with ANGELO BRUNO at the Penn Jersey
Vending Company.

PH. T-1 advised on March 31, 1964, that he
observed ANGELO BRUNO,’ accompanied by NICHOLAS PICCOLO,
entering an automobile owned by BRUNO's office manager,
RALPH SCHWARTZ. “PH T-1 further ‘stated that he believed
BRUNO and PICCOLO had’ left the Philadelphia area.

PH T-2 advised on April 14, 1964, thatANGELO :
BRUNO met with NICHOLAS | PICCOLO at MATORIELLO! s barber i:
shop.

PH T~2 advised on April 25, 1964, that. ANGELO
BRUNO distributed invitations to the wedding of THERESE
. SCAFIDI, one of which was given to NICHOLAS PICCOLO. ©

~- 60 -

Docld:32299522 Page 51


PH 92-4
(19

PH T-2 advised on April 30, 1964,. that NICHOLAS
PICCOLO was at Penn Jersey Vending Company awaiting. the
arrival of ANGELO BRUNO, who did not. show up while
PICCOLO was “waiting. Subsequently, PICCOLO left Penn
Jersey Vending Company and departed the area with FRANK
“NARDUCCI in NARDUCCI 8” automobile.

ANTONIO pewrren renin.
\ 2515_South-2ist—Street,

‘Philadelphia, PF Pa A
_ -

sorte m2 advised on April 16,°1964, that he observed
ONIOAPOLLINA for the first time an many months in the
waste. of 8th and Christian Streets getting a haircut

at. MAIORIELLO's barber shop. ~ a
ae if a ssertaattcs
8. ITORE, Cesk” Bhend BAG
eet ieereerenarereeeirireTeEEnEETEETa!

PH Tl advised on Maréeh 27, 1964, that SAM” PUNGETORE,
accompanied by FRED IEZZI, visited ANGELO BRUNO at Penn ~~
Jersey Vending Company ‘for the purpose ‘of: extending: to him
their Bester greetings.

728 Carpenter Street, _
nlaas lpia Pa

PH T-1 advised on March 17, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO
was observed in the company of MARIO RICCOBENE entering
Penn Jersey Vending Company. While in Penn Jersey Vending
Company, RICCORENE and BRUNO met with RAYMOND MARTORANO
and GEORGE BUCHER, who’ is one of the International
Representatives of the Upholsterers Union,

~~

PH T-1 advised on Marech.17, 1964, that he observed
MARIO RICCOBENE, accompanied by FRANK SINDONE, entering

- 61 =

Docld:32299522 Page 52


apo

Penn Jersey Vending Company: They did not see ANGELO BRUNO
on this oceasion, but PH T-1 was of the opinion they
wished to discuss with him a crap game which they plan to
open up and wished to discusa this with BRUNO.

PH T-1 advised on March 18,,1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO met with ALBERT COPELAND, FRANK. SINDONE, and MARIO
RICCOBENE at Penn Jersey Vending Company. RICCOBENE on
this ‘occasion departed Penn Jersey Veriding Company in ~
phe. ae of FRANK SINDONE. and drove ont in SINDONE’s
automobile.

PH T-1 advised on March 19, 1964, that he
obsexved MARIO RICCORENE entering Penn Jersey Vending
ompany.

PH T-1 advised on March 20, 1964, that he
observed MARIO "SONNY" RICCOBENE talking with ANGELO
BRUNO, who. was seated in ALBERT COPELAND's automobile,
in the vicinity of 8th and Christian Streets.

PH T-1 advised on. March 23, 1964, that he
observed MARIO RICCOBENE talking with ANGHLO BRUNO at
Penn: Jersey Vending Company. concerning the. erap game’ which
Pe OnaNe was Planning and which would start on March 2k,
196 ae

PH T-1 advised that ANGELO BRUNO spoke with
MARIO RICCOBENE at Penn Jersey Vending Company on.
Mareh 25,° 1964,

PH T-2 advised on April 16, 1964, he observed
MARIO RICCOBENE entering Penn Jersey Vending Company.
RICCOBENE on this occasion did not speak with ANGELO
BRUNE who'was not ‘present at Penn Jersey Vending Company.

PH T-2 advised. on April 28, 1964, he observed
MARIO RICCOBENE entering Penn Jersey Vending Company.

- 62 =

Docld:32299522 Page 53


ay

PH T-2 advised on May 2, 1964, that SONNY
RICCOBENE, accompanied by his wife, sat with RAYMOND
MARTORANO and his wife, and FRED D'ANGELO and GEORGE

"BUCHER at Palumbo's Restaurant on the. occasion .of ANTONY

LALLI's wedding reception, Seated at another table was
ANGELO BRUNO, “D'ANGELO and. BUCHER are both associated
with the Upholsters Union.

PH 1-2 advised on May 14, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO hada discussion with MARIO RICCOBENE at. Penn
Jersey Vending Company.

PH T-2 advised on May 19, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO departed Penn Jersey Vending Company at about
4:15 p.m. for the purpose: of keeping 2 a 4:30 p.m.
appointment with RAYMOND MARTORANO, FRED D'ANGELO, and
SONNY RICCOBENE. PH T-2 speculated that BRUNO's meeting
with RICCOBENE probably concerned : money because RICCOBENE
went broke on number "666," which was the winning number
on Fay 18; 1964,:

PH T-2 advised on May 20, 1964, that MARIO
RICCOBENE was present at Penn Jersey Vending Company. for
the: purpose of seeing ANGELO BRUNO, who was not available.
PH T-2 learned on this’ day that RICCOBENE was no longer
associlated-in the floating crap game with FRANK. SINDONE
and JOHN CAPPELLO beeause he had been "tapped ‘out" ona
numbers. tap. a

PH T-2 advised on May 21,1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO met.with MARIO RICCOBENE at the barber shop at
11:45 a.m. Subsequently, at about 1:00 p.m,, BRUNO met.
with MARIO RICCOBENE and ADAM D! OLTO. in : the basement: of |
MAIORIELLO's . ‘barber shop.

- 63--

| Docld: 32299522 Page 54


Fi got

saxvaronaksGxrr02
ake SAM;" i
<909"86 "South 8th Street,

Philadsiphia, 2Pa. \

PH T-1 advised on March 19, 1964, that SALVATORE
SCAFIDI left ten wedding invitations for ANGELO BRUNO at
Penn Jersey Vending Company. SAM SCAFIDI's daughter,
THERESE EDITH-SCAFIDI, was to be married on April 25,
1964, at St. Mary's Church, 800 Salter Street, to SYLVESTER
JOSEPH ZAZULA,

: PH T-2 advised on April 25, 1964, that, ANGELO
BRUNO distributed invitations to THERESE SCAFIDI's wedding
to the following ag IGNAZIO DENARO, FRANK NICOLETTI,
FRANK SINDONE, FRANK MONTE, FRANK NARDUCCI, ALFRED IEZZI,
NICHOLAS PICCOLO, and JOSEPH PICCOLO,

wronotas/ScARFO;
Fai jadelphia: Detention_ center,
“7TBhiledelphia,.

PH T-2. advised on ‘April 14, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO met with NICHOLAS PICCOLO at MATORTELLO' s barber
shop. PICCOLO planned to visit with his sister, who was
going to visit NICHOLAS SCARFO at the Philadelphia Detention
Center. SCARFO is PICCOLO's nephew. SCARFO owes $600
to FELIX JOHN DE TULLIO. PICCOLO and DE TULLIO were
attempting to straighten out this debt.

PH T-2 advised on May 5, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO learned that NICHOLAS SCARFO was no longer working
in the hospital at the Philadelphia Detention Center.

VERBERG ,
__ Philadelphia, Pa

PH T-3 advised on July 27, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO
had an appointment to meet with AL SILVERBERG at DE TULLIO's

- Oh -

Docld:32299522 Page 55


( gous

Friendly Bar, 8th and Washington Avenue, between.11 o'clock |
and 14430, o'cloek.

Ca

YE T-2 advised: on May 1, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO
met privately with JOHN SIMONE in the rear room ‘of ALFONSO
MAIORIELLO's bavber. shop. 7

PH T~2 advised on May 21, 1964, that JOHN SIMONE

and CARL IPPOLITO attempted to contact “ANGELO BRUNO from
‘New York telephone number Canal 6-0038, and wanted ‘BRUNO

to’ call them back immediately. Later in the day BRUNO

indicated to 7-2 that he had contacted IPPOLITO and

SIMONE, BEN GOLOB told PH 'T-2 that ANGELO BRUNO had

departed his residence at approximately 7:00 p.m. for

the purpose of picking up CARL IPPOLITO and JOHN SIMONE.

By communique dated Tuly 31, 1964, the New York

Office of the FBI advised that they had observed ANGELO

BRUNO seated at a table in the Pompel Restaurant, 475

Park Avenue >. New York City, with seven other individuals.

One person, who was tentatively identified as JOHN

SIMONE, was observed leaving the restaurant and subsequently
“entering a 1964 blaek and white Cadillac, bearing New ~

Jersey license GEH 769, which vehicle is registered to

THERESE SIMONE, wife of JOHN SIMONE.

B, APPRUR 17 ¢

ebay...

It has ed aat been reported that CALOGERO
SINATRA is a cousin ‘of ANGELO BRUNO,

PH.T-12, a confidential source abroad, advised
on March 27, 1964, that the Susdoial ‘Tespunad of Caltanisetta,

are

Sol @ash@een i

DocId:32299522 Page 56


PH T1 advised. on Maren 6, 1964, that FRANK
SINDONE visited Penn Jersey Vending Company for the
purpose of seeing ANGELO. BRUNO, but was unsuccessful
due to BRUNO's absence,” ~

“PH T=1 advised: on March 9, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO spoke with FRANK SINDONE at Tho Christian Street.
Later in the day BRUNO met with SINDONE at. Penn’ Jersey
Vending Company.

PH T=1 advised:on March 13, 1964, FRANK
SINDONE visited Penn Jersey Vending Company looking for
ANGELO. BRUNO,” but was unsuecesaful.

PH T-1 advised on March 16, 1964, that FRANK
SINDONE spoke. with ANGELO BRUNO at MATORTELLO's barber.
shop.

PH 1 adyised on March 17, 1964, that FRANK
SINDONE. “accompanied by MARIO RICCOBENE, visited Penn’
Jersey Yend nding Company for the purpose of telling ANGELO
BRUNO the details.ef a crap game they plan to open, BRUNO
was not present. -

PH T-1 advised on March 18, 1964, that ALBERT
COPELAND; FRANK .SINDONE, MARIO RICCOBENE, and ANGELO
BRUNO had'a-discussion at Penn Jersey Vending Company.
Subsequently, SINDONE departed with RICCOBENE in
SINDONE's ear.

PH T-1 advised on March 19, 1964, FRANK SINDONE
informed ANGELC BRUNO that he had heard. from Magistrate
E,. DAVID KEISER's Office through Office Clerk JULES
ZARETSKY, who was trying to get FRANK SINDONE's Pennsyl-.
vania operator's license restored. SINDONE told BRUNO

- 68 -

Docld:32299522 Page 57


ann
(27

that there were approximately 90 tickets for motor vehicle
violations listed for him, and that ZARETSKY had "pulled
most of the movi violations," which would cost SINDQNE
$200 rather than $600 in fines to restore the license,
SINDONE expected the license to be returned on Monday or
Tuesday, March 23 or ah, 1964.

PH T-1 advised on March 20, 1964 that BRUNO,
acéompanied by FRANK SINDONE and -FRANK NARDUCCI,: were
‘observed by him entering THO Christian Street.

-PH T-2 advised on April 8, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO wisitea ‘SONNY RICCOBENE's luncheonette,’ 13th and
Catharine Streets, for the. purpose of finding ‘FRANK SINDONE
Subsequently, FRANK SINDONE came to Penn Jersey Vending
Company and stated that thepolice had raided the pool-
room at 13th and Catharine Streets and searched him as
they had a warrant for him, signed by -B. DAVID KEISER,
but the police found nothing because KEISER's Clerk,
ZARETSKY, had ¢alled him on-April 7, 1964, to prewarn
him. SINDONE stated that he did not receive the message
directly, and that ZARETSKY had relayed the information
te. Anan’ BRUNO's son, MICHAEL,» who in turn relgyed it
ro) TRPORE

PH T-2 advised on April 24, 1964, that FRANK
SINDONE visited Penn Jersey Vending Company for the’ purpose
of: seeing ANGELO BRUNO, put was unsuccessful in: locating”
hin,

PH T-2 advised on April 28, 1964, that FRANK
-SINDONE, followed by MARIO RICCOBENE and FRANK MONTE,
visited Penn Jersey. Vending Company inan. effort to
locate ANGELO BRUNO, © “put. were unsuccessful.

PH T-2 advised on April 29, 1964, that ALFRED
IEZZI. contacted ANGELO BRUNO for the purpose: of seeing if
FRANK SINDONE had left any money with BRUNO for IEZZI.
PH T-2 stated that IEZZI had loaned $500 to SINDONE and
SINDONE was scheduled to. repay it, $20.00, per: week.

~ 6 -

Docld:32299522 Page 58


age .

PH T-2 advised on April 30, 1964, that FRANK SINDONE
delivered $50.00 to BRUNO's office manager, RALPH SCHWARTZ,
which was: to be passed down to FRED IEZZI asa payment for

“his loan,

PH n-2 advised on May 4, 1964, that FRANK —
SINDONE visited ANGELO BRUNO “at. Penn Jersey Vending Company.
BRUNO was also observed speaking with SINDONE and AUGUSTINE
MAZZIO at Penn Jersey Vending Company during the same day.

PH T-2 adyised on May 14, 1964, that FRANK  ~
SINDONE, while speaking with ANGELO BRUNO, sought advice
for the operation of a crap game which SINDONE was planning.
BRUNO: instructed. SINDONE not to employ FRANK | NARDUCCI at’
the game, and SINDONE stated that he would not. employ FRANK
MONTE because of his probationary status.

PH T-2 advised on May 20, 1964, that FRANK SINDONE
and JOHN CAPPELLO have been working a floating crap game. ~
During the afternoon BRUNO was observed speaking with FRANK
SINDONE. on Hutehinson Street between Catharine and Christian
Streets near the statute of the Madonna,

PH T-2 advised on May 21, 1964, that FRANK SINDONE ~
was observed entering MAIORTELLO's barber shop, at which
time BRUNO was known to be’ in the barber shop. During the
afternoon FRANK NARDUCCT, informed BRUNO of FRANK SINDONE's
arrest by the Philadelphia Police Department on May 21,
‘1964, which arrest NARDUCCI claimed was a "frame." BRUNO.
asked NARDUCCI who was going to take care, of SINDONE's
arrest, and NARDUCCI replied ."RAY MARTIN," . Later during
the afternoon BRUNO spoke with FRANK SINDONE concerning
his arrest, and BRUNO instructed him to see AUGUSTINE
MAZZIO concerning the arrest because MAZZIO is paying
Captain KEAN's men and MAZZIO would take care of the arrest,

PH 2-2 advised on May 28, 1964, that FRANK SINDONE
advised ANGELO BRUNO three of his numbers men were arrested

-70 =

Docld:32299522 Page 59


PH 92-Hil
(29) ©

and that AL SCHWARTZ, bondaman, was taking care of the
arrests. nee :
ae PH T-2 advised on May. 29, 1964, that AL SCHWARTZ,
bondsman, informed BRUNO that BEN GLICKSTEIN got $300 to
get SINDONE's gambling arrest thrown out ‘by Magistrate

M. PHILLIP FREED, FREED received $250, and GLICKSTEIN

got $5090. © ;

: ly”
JOSELPATANITSEY, :
aka. : na oes

a MICKEY,
oe Levering Circle Drive,

soy

PH T-l advised on March. 11,1964, that: MICKEY .
TANITSKY visited Penn Jersey Vending Company in an effort eee
to locate ANGELO BRUNO, PH T-1 did not kmow if he was successful.

PH T-1 advised on. March 16, 1964, that. MICKEY
TANTASEY, spoke with ANGELO BRUNO at MAIORIELLO's barber
shop. : :

: x
i PH T-3 advised on June 4, 1964, that
ian with ANGELO BRUNO at Penn Jersey Vending
omgany.. ' ‘

fe tet? AMHARME

NTESTA yee
‘appenter Street,
iladelphia,_ Pa.

‘(Presenti Confined Philadelphia Detention center

"PH Gel advised on March 24, 1964, that PHILIP
TESTA, through his wife ALFIA, conveyed the following
messages to ANGELO BRUNO: :
1. He was to get a postponement of TESTA's trial;

2... He was to get ‘TESTA'S income tax prepared;

- 71 -

Docld:32299522 Page 60


PE, 92-in

3. TESTA is concerned he will be called as a
- witness against BRUNO in BRUNO's forthcoming
trial for extortion - conspiracy in U. S.
District Court, Philadelphia.

PH T-2 advised on April 7, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO instructed his office manager, RALPH SCHWARTZ, to
drive ALFIA TESTA to the Philadelphia Detention Center in
order that: she could visit with her husband.

PH T-2 advised on April 14, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO again instructed RALPH SCHWARTZ to drive ALFIA
TESTA to the Philadelphia Detention Center.

, PH T-2 advised: on April 15, 1964, that BRUNO,
while speaking of PHILIP TESTA's incarceration, stated
that what. he, BRUNO, needs is a six months vacation like
the one ‘TESTA has.

PH T-2 advised on April 17, 1964, that it is
common knowledge in South Philadelphia that FRANK NICOLETTI
has been BRUNO's eonstant traveling companion due to the
incarceration of BRUNO's closest associate, PHILIP TESTA, .

PH T-2 advised on April 21; 1964, that RALPH aoa
SCHWARTZ ‘drove ALFIA TESTA to the Philadelphia Detention

sis
Center. ¥ Ce :

* PH T-2 advised qn April 28, 1964, that he i
observed FRANK NICOLETII and ANGELO BRUNO entering the
home. of ALFIA TESTA, ~

PH T=10 advised that BRUNO had instructed ALFIA
that Attorney JACOB KOSSMAN intended to file an appeal
alleging that PHILIP TESTA has been in jail for a period
of six months,’ as of May 1, 1964, and has not been brought
to trial.  KOSSMAN ‘will argue that TESTA’ should be
-reéleased on bond or brought to trial rather than continue
confinement.

= 72.4

Docld:32299522 Page 61


mye :

“PH T-2 advised that on May 12, 1964, RALPH
SCHWARTZ chauffeured ALFIA TESTA to the Philadelphia
Detention Center.

PH T-+3 advised on June 5, 1964, that Attorney
JACOB KOSSMAN was. in the © process of preparing an additional
brief.to present to the U, S, Cireuit Court of Appeals
in an effort to obtain TESTA! s pelease, citing the case
of Governor ROSS BARNETT, asking for a trial by jury for |
TESTA beeause his offense was a "petty offense." ~

PH T-3 advised on June 6, 1964, that -ANGELO
BRUNO had a discussion with TESTA'S prother-in-law, JOHN
MASI.” MASI. Informed BRUNO that PHILIP TESTA 1s afraid
he will’ be called as a witness in the Federal extortion
case involving BRUNO. BRUNO assured MASI.that TESTA will
not be called, and that if by chance he 1s. called, he is
"not to get fresh," but is to be a gentleman.

PH T-3 advised on June 16, 1964, that RALPH
SCHWARTZ again drove ALFIA TESTA to the Philadelphia
Detention Center, It was learned by PH T~10 that ALFIA
TESTA subsequently: contacted ANGELO BRUNO, and informed
him that her husband was nervous, angry, and bitter
because JACOB KOSSMAN, his. attorney, visited FRANK
PALERMO, whois also incarcerated at the Philadelphia
Detention Center, but ignored ‘her husband, “PHILIP TESTA,

PH T-3 advised that ALFIA TESTA visited the
home of ANGELO BRUNO on Sunday, June 21, 1964,

Pa 7-3 advised on June 23, 1964, that ALFIA
TESTA again visited her husband PHILIP, and she told her
husband that ANGELO BRUNO had determined that he would
be released ‘by October 31, A90h.

- 73 -

Docld:32299522 Page 62


PH zo
(32

oe

.Lincoln.Road. pf
“Vineland, Nr-J. a
orate

fan
PH T-1 advised on March 5, 1964, that sg} T0RCO
visited ANGELO BRUNO at Penn Jersey Vending Company, “and
subsequently left Penn Jersey Vending Company and went to
Camden where they. visited SALVATORE AVENA, Subsequent to
their visit with AVENA, BRUNO and TURCO returned to Phila-
delphia where they met MAX WEISBERG,

PH T-2 advised on April 7, 1964, that he learned
ti MMY TURCO's wife was a patient in Philadelphia
Jefferson Hospital.

a WILLIE

al

Apartment 1010A,

~—-2601 Parkway Apartments,

_-—Phtl@delphia, Pa,

cca PH T-1 advised on March 5, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO
had an appointment witH MAX WEISBERG for 4:00 p.m.

PH T-1 advised on March 9, 1964, that MAX
WEISBERG visited ANGELO BRUNO at Penn Jersey Vending Company.
WEISBERG indicated prior to his departure that he would
again see BRUNO during the evening.

PH T-1 advised on March 11, 1964, that MAX
WEISBERG visited Penn Jersey Vending Company, and
immediately went to 740 Christian Street where he joined
NICHOLAS PICCOLO and AL SCHWARTZ, Subsequently, WEISBERG
departed with AL SCHWARTZ,

PH T-1 advised on March 13, 1964, that MAX
WEISBERG had a 2:00 p.m. appointment with ANGELO BRUNO,
and arrived minutes after 2:00 p.m., picked ‘up ANGELO
BRUNO, and both departed in WEISBERG's car.

- The

Docld:32299522 Page 63


PH 92-44)
(33).

i PH T-1 advised on March 16, 196%, that MAX WETSBERG
was observed by him at about 2:00 p.m., leaving the vicinity
of 8th and’ Christian Streets in ANGELO BRUNO's automobile.

PH T-1 advised on March 17, 1964, MAX WEISBERG
visited Penn Jersey Vending Company, but BRUNO was not
present. Subsequently, BRUNO returned and met with MAX
WEISBERG at MATORIELLO's barber shop.

PH T-1 advised on March 19, 1964, that MAX
. WEISBERG entered Penn Jersey Vending Company where he.
briefly spoke with ANGELO BRUNO. “BRUNO and WEISHERG then
left Penn Jersey Vending Company and ‘spoke’ privately on
the outside. WEISBERG told BRUNO that JEFF NEWMAN "went
over" to see HYMAN STROMBERG, and that subsequently
STROMBERG eontacted WEISBERG. —~

PH T-1 advised on March 20, 1964, that WEISBERG,
accompanied by RAY OATES, arrived at Penn Jersey Vending
Company ’and spoke with ANGELO BRUNO, WEISBERG, before he
left, told BRUNO that he would see him on Sunday night,
March 22, 1964, at PRANK MATTEO's party.

PH T-1 advised on March 23, 1964, that MAX
‘WEISBERG visited Penn Jersey Vending Company in an
effort to speak with ANGELO BRUNO, who was not there.
subsequently, WEISBERG met with BRUNO at-740 Christian
reet. pet ¢ : 2 :

PH T-2 advised on April 1, 1964, that he observed
MAX WEISBERG speaking with ANGELO BRUNO in the hallway at
774 South 6th Street at the Catharine Street entrance
where they talked for approximately one-half hour, —

PH T-2 advised on April 3, 1964, that MAX
WEISBERG and ANGELO’ BRUNO were seen by him walking: toward
749 South 8th Street, which 1s the address of FELIX JOHN -
DE TULLIO's new barber shop. They talked there for approx-
imately 40 minutes. :

- 754

Docld:32299522 Page 64


oh eae

PH T-2 advised en April 7, 1964; that he observed
MAX WEISBERG at 3rd Street and Oregon Avenue with ANGELO

ae . PH T-2 advised on April 9, 1964, ‘that MAX WEISBERG
met with ANGELO BRUNO at MICHAEL GRASSO's real estate office,
Philadelphia, : :

PH T-2 advised on April 16, 1964, that. MAX
WEISBERG visited Penn Jersey Ven@ing Company and 740
Christian Street in an effort to.locate ANGELO BRUNO, but
was unsuecessful,

: ANGELO BRUNO and MAX WEISBERG were observed by
SAS EDWARD D. HEGARTY ‘and ROBERT W, HOLMES dining at the
Oregon Diner, 3rd Street ‘and Oregon Avenue, Philadelphia,
on April 27, 1964. : ‘

PH T-2 advised on April 27, 1964, MAX WEISBERG
attempted to contact ANGELO BRUNO at Penn Jersey Vending
Company at approximately 1:25 p.m., but was unsuccessful.

PH T-2 advised on April 29, 1964, that WEISBERG
again attempted to contact ANGELO BRUNO on two attempts,
but was unsuccessful.

During the early afternoon of May 1, 1964, :
according to PH.T-2, MAX WEISBERG, accompanied by RAY OATES,
visited. the Penn Jersey Vending Company in an effort to
locate. ANGELO BRUNO, ‘but was unsuccessful,

PY.T-2 advised. on May 4, 1964, that MAX WEISBERG
and ANGELO BRUNO had a discussion at Penn. Jersey Vending
Company . . ae

PH T-2 advised on May 13, 1964, that MAX WEISBERG,
accompanied by FRANK MATTEO, visited Penn Jersey Vending
Company, and subsequently. departed from Penn Jersey Vending
Company with FELIX JOHN DE. TULLIO, ~

= 76 =

Docld:32299522 Page 65


ew

PH T-2 advised on May 15,1964, that. MAX WEISBERG
i had a discussion with JACK WILLIAMS and ANGELO BRUNO at

; Penn Jersey Vending Company for approximately 10 or 15
minutes. WEISBERG arrived at Pern Jersey Vending Company

! at about 1:50 p.m. and departed with ANGELO BRUNO in
WEISBERG's car at 3:40 p.m.

i PH T-3 advised on June 9, 1964, that MAX WEISBERG
was observed speaking privately with ANGELO BRUNO at the
2-4 Club, Philadelphia, on the occasion of JERRY BROOKS!
wedding reception.

By communique from the New York Office of the
FBI, dated July 31, 1964, Philadelphia was advised that
during the evening of duly 29, 1964, ANGELO BRUNO was
observed with seven other individuals at. the Pompei
Restaurant, 475 Park Avenue, New York City. One or
these individuals was identified as MAX WEISBERG, BRUNO
was accompanied by a person tentatively identified as
JOHN SIMONE, WEISBERG then introduced BRUNO and his
peor named JOANNY to the other persons seated at
the table.

~ sam WEINSTEIN,

Philadelphia. 2.
h: lelphia,__Pa.

ee ‘
WEINSTEIN is an associate of MAX WEISBERG in the
operation of the Cadillac Linen Supply Company.

PH T-2 advised on April 8, 1964, LOU LALLI
arranged for Penn Jersey Vending Company to distribute
invitations to certain persons, which invitations were
for the wedding reception of ANTHONY LALLI, stepson of
LOU LALLI, One of these invitations was for SAM WEINSTEIN,

PH T=2 advised on April 9, 1964, that SAM

WEINSTEIN received his invitation to the LALLI wedding
reception through MAX WEISBERG.

-77 =

Docld:32299522 Page 66


friction between ANGELO. “BRUNO and IGNAZIO DENARO in that
RO has complained about BRUNO'on two or three occasions
while with the people in New York,

2. Political and. Police Corruption

PH T-1 advised on March 19, 1964," that FRANK
SINDONE told ANGELO BRUNO that he heard from Magistrate
E. DAVID KEISER's office through Office Clerk JULES |:
ZARETSKY, who 1s trying to. get FRANK SINDONE'S Pennsylvania
operator's license restored. SINDONE said. there were ~
approximately 90 traffic violation tickets’ outstanding
against him, SINDONE, and ZARETSKY ‘had "pulled most of
the moving violations," which would cost. SINDONE $200
rather than $600 in ‘fines to restore’ the license,. :
s expected his license to be returned by Monday or

Tuesday, that is March 23 or 2h, 1964,

On April 6, 1964, PH T-2 advised that he learned
from ANGELO BRUNO that BRUNO has been informed that Police
Commissioner HOWARD LEARY is going to resign, and. that BELL
will then become Commissioner of the Philadelphia Police’.
Depax tient, and JOHN DRISCOLL will become. Commissioner of

ectives, foe : oe i : :

On April §,:1964, PH 1-2 advised that FRED
GOVERNA,..former Philadelphia Police Department’ Patrolman,
was at Penn Jersey Veriding Company and waited for ANGELO
BRUNO, PH T-2 advised that ‘MORRIS ‘STARR, Sergeant-at-.
Arms, Philadelphia City -cor 1cil, ‘contacted Penn Jersey
Vending Company, ‘and stated that. FRED GOVERNA wanted to
get back on’ the Police force and wanted BRUNO ‘to intercede
for him, It appeared that FRANK SINDONE was. arrested in
Councilman: ‘THOMAS GIORDANO's ‘car‘on' Darien Street in

1959: or 1960,” As a result ‘ef this arrest by FRED G V .
Councilman GIORDANO had GOVERNA removed from the police
force, Subsequently, BRUNO relayed a@ message through his —
office manager, RALPH SCHWARTZ, to MORRIS STARR and told

> 85 -

Docld:32299522 Page 67


PH 92-444
(4)

him to do anything he eould in effort to get GOVERNA reinstated
as a city policeman. Te

PH T-11,advised on April 14, 1964; that he had
received information from a source whom he believed to be
reliable to the effect that there is currently a conspiracy
in existence in Philadelphia which has as its purpose the
removal of. HOWARD’R, LEARY as Commissioner of the Phila-
delphia Police Department, He also said that FRED CORLETTO,
Managing Director of thé City of Philadelphia, 1s "tied up"
with ANGELO BRUNO and is working in BRUNO's interest.
According to PH 'T-11, Deputy Philadelphia Police Commissioners
EDWARD BELL and FRANK RIZZO have formed an alliance to work
against LEARY, and in this regard are cooperating with
FRED CORLETTO, X

_ (On April 25,°1964, PH T-2 advised that FRANK
SINDONE told ANGELO BRUNO that he was picked up by Captain
JAMES KEAN's men for numbers lottery activities. BRUNO
instructed SINDONE not to’get "fresh" with KEAN, whom
BRUNO described as a "good guy," and stated further that
everything "is under contrel,

On April 27, 1964, PH T-2 advised that AUGUSTINE
MAZZIO, BRUNO associate, is paying Captain JAMES KEAN,
Philadelphia Police Department, for. protection from police
attention for BRUNO's numbers operation.

On May 4, 1964, PH T-3 advised that ANGELO BRUNO
and MAX WEISBERG held a discussion ‘concerning the cost of
"fixing" or "throwing out" a case in local Philadelphia
courts for gambling charges. WEISBERG recalled that
Magistrate BENJAMIN SEGAL wanted $350 to "throw out" a
numbers case; Magistrate. E, DAVID. KEISER wanted to make
$150; Judge RAYMOND PACE ALEXANDER would "throw one out"
for $200. PH T-8 has advised that ANGELO BRUNO expended
$3000 to obtain favorable court action (fixes) for ROCCO
SCAFIDI, brother of SAM SCAFIDI, 909 South 8th Street,
Philadelphia. Charges against ROCCO SCAFIDI resulted from

~ 86 -

Docld:32299522 Page 68


PH g2-Hll,
(5)

"bad paper" SCAFIDI had "fleated" in the Philadelphia area.
3. Gambling Activities

——_—-A,__ Bingo Games

PH T-1 and PH T-2 both advised that FRANK ~
DIATTILLIO-is actively ‘making arrangements to organize
bingo games at varistis "colored churches" in Philadelphia.
Games will be Sponsored by chureh groups, but will be
organized‘ and éperated. by FRANK D'ATTILLIO on a pereetitage
“basis. D'ATTILLIO has kept BRUNO informed of his efforts
in this regard, and has indicated that he does not want
FRANK MONTE, FRANK NARDUCCI, or ‘FRANK SINDONE to be
associated with him in this: venture because’ of their
police notoriety.

B.. Crap Games

PH T-1, PH T-2, and PH T-8 have continuously -
advised of the presence of "floating" crap games in
Philadelphia. ‘These gamés are organized and. operated by
FRANK MONTE,: FRANK: NARDUCCI, FRANK: SINDONE, JOHN: CAPPELLO,
MARIO RICCOBENE, AUGUSTINE MAZZIO, and» JOSEPH LAZZARO.
These games. are frequently raided by the PhiladeIphia
Police Departnent, but start up within several days after
each raid. ANGELO BRUNO, according to PH T-1 and PH. T~2,
is kept informed of the game's progress, the earnings
therefrom, and the identities of the. operators.

On May 14, 1964, PH T-2 advised that FRANK
SINDONE informed ANGELO BRUNO that he was organizing
a new crap game, and asked BRUNO for advice on its —
operation. BRON told SINDONE not to use FRANK NARDUCCL
in the game's operation because he is on probation as a
result of action taken in the Philadelphia County Courts.
‘SINDONE told BRUNO that he would not use FRANK MONTE
for this same réasen; SINDONE doubted that he would be
able to use JOHN CAPPELLO or MARIO RICCOBENE because they

- 87 -

Docld:32299522 Page 69


PH 92-444

(7)

believes that within ‘a year the South Philadelphia crowd
will probably have nearly, complete. contrel of gambling in
Philadelphia. He said."cut cards" will be used more
frequently in Philadelphia, thereby reducing the number
of "hits" and increasing their take. "Cut cards" are used
to a limited degrée in Philadelphia at present. ("Cut
eards" refers to cutting out frequently hit numbers,
meaning either the player cannot play those numbers
listed or they ean play some number only at reduced odds).

: ‘PH T-2 advised on May 12, 1964, that GEORGE KATZ
contacted ANGELO BRUNO, who was ‘accempanied. by FRANK
NICOLETTI, on behalf of his brother, "TOMMY FOLEY." ~
FOLEY desired to kmow from BRUNO what the winning number
was for May 11, 1964, because of an apparent misunder-
standing which arese concerning what the correct number
was. NICCLETEI told KATZ that BRUNO had straightened the
matter out, and that the winning number was "314,"_

PH T-2 further advised on May 12, 1964, that TOM
FOLEY, numbers writer, turns in his numbers action to
ANGELO BRUNO through FRANK IANNARELLA and PEPPY KOVLER,
The confusion which arose concerning the correct. number
for May 11, 1964, resulted from a mistake printed by the
"New York Telezram,” causing confusion throughout Fhila-
delphia. .PH T-2 advised that he learned from FRANK
TANNARELLA that ANGELO BRUNO, ADAM D'OLIO, and DOMINIC”
COLOZZI. and a few others decided what the winning number
would be for May 11,'1964, and it-was decided that ."314"
would be the correet number.

D, Loan Sharking

PR T-1, PH T-2; and PH {-3 continue to furnish
information. showing..that RAYMOND MARTORANO and FRANK
DIATTILLIO are actively loan sharking in the Philadelphia
area,. ANGELO BRUNO is supervising their efforts.

PE T-1 advised on March 25,-1964, ‘that RAYMOND
MARTORANO informed ANGELO BRUNO that a friend of SAMUEL

ae

Docld:32299522 Page 70


ae

ex
@

PH 92-444
(8)

MARGOLIS and FRANK PALERMO wanted to borrow $1500, This
"friend" was described as being from New Jersey.

PH T-2 advised an April 27,1964, that RAYMOND
MARTORANO requested. ANGELO BRUNO to "okay" a loan in'the
amount of $1000 for. JOSEPH KANEFSKY. .KANEFSKY, aka JOE
KANE, needed the money to repay AL. SHORE, KANE and  SOLLIE
GLEANER purehased one-half of the Candy Cane Lounge,
Marshall Street and Oregon Avenue, Philadelphia, and KANE
owned $1000 to.SHORE, MARTORANO indicated that KANE —
still owés $3000. BRUNG deferred his decision until the
following Saturday night when BRUNO would have the
occasion to discuss KANE's loan request with DAN STROMBERG,

a brother of HYMAN CHAIM STROMBERG.

PH T~3 advised on April 29, 1964, that ALFRED
IEZZI complained to BRUNO that FRANK SINDONE was delinquent
in repaying a $500 lean, BRUNO assured IEZZI that he
would instruct SINDONE te immediately repay IEZZI.

PH T-2 advised on April 29, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO was scheduled to arbitrate a dispute between
JOSEPH KANEFSKY and. RAYMOND MARTORANO involving the
$1000. lean arrangements made by MARTORANO and KANEFSKY.
Present at the meeting, in addition to BRUNO, MARTORANO,
and KANEFSKY, would be RALPH KATZ, aka TOMMY FOLEY, and

“DAN. STROMBERG ,

PH T-2 advised on April 30, 1964, that FRANK
SINDONE left $50.00 at Penn Jersey Vending Company to be
given to FRED. TEZZI, which money represented payment
teward loan extended to him by IEZZi.

PH T-2 advised on May 1, 1964, that FRANK
D'ATTILLIO was opening a new luncheenette at 301 South
5end Street; D'ATTILLIO wanted a $500 lean and a $200
gift from RAYMOND MARTORANG, principal of John's Vending
Company, which company has a service contraet for

= 90 =

Docld:32299522 Page 71


PH 92-444
(9)

machines and equipment owned by Penn Jersey Vending Company,
in return for giving: MARTORANO the vending, machine rights
at the luncheonette. This-request by D'ATTILLIO angered
ANGELO BRUNO, who felt D'ATTILLIO should take BRUNO's
Machines on BRUNO's terms because of past favors performed
by BRUNO for D'ATTILLIO,

PH T-3 advised on June 22, 1964, that the owner
of Dante's Restaurant, who proceeded JOSEPH MALITO in
rtnership with JACK LOPINSON, had borrowed in excess of
20,000 from RAYMOND MARTORANO. JOSEPH MALITO allegedly
bought out LOPINSON's former partner, either through an
exchange of money or through a debt settlement.

4, BRUNO's Involvement with Heavyweight Prize Fighter
CHARLES "SONNY" LISTON

PH T-1 advised on March 15, 1964, that GEORGE
KATZ met BOB NILON during the previous week, at which time
NILON was critical of SONNY LISTON, stating that LISTON

would not fight any more because NILON believed LISTON

would go to jail. LISTON reportedly indicated to NILON
that by going to Jail, he would "beat" FRANK "BLINKY"
PALERMO and "SAPPY" MARGOLIS out of the money he received
from the CASSIUS CLAY fight.

PH T-2 advised that GEORGE KATZ believes the
reason ANGELO BRUNO, MAX WEISBERG, SAM MARGOLIS, FELIX
JOHN DE TULLIO, and FRANK PALERMO have-had frequent
meetings in the past.is because of their involvement in
SONNY LISTON's contract. KATZ believes that PALERMO and
MARGOLIS are currently at-odds, and that PALERMO had
borrowed a sum of money from FELIX JOHN DE: TULLIO-with the
intention of repaying it subsequent to the LISTON-CLAY
prize fight. MARGOLIS, according to KATZ, apparently
borrowed money from the "Jewish Group" with the same

» intention of repaying it after the fight. As of March

15, 1964, the earnings of the prize fight were impounded,
hence it was necessary for MARGOLIS and PALERMO to

- 91 -

Docld:32299522 Page 72


with LISTON because they feel that LISTON won't. fight again.
Further, PALERMO and MARGOLIS have ‘approached ANGELO BRUNO
to get $50,000 for the purpose of buying back the verbal
agreement that the NILONs and MARGOLIS had at the time the
NILONs initially gave MARGOLIS $50,000.

5. _. BRUNO's Involvement in The Dominican Republic

PH 1-2 advised on May 2, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO
‘reeeived a letter from BEN GOLOB which reflected in part
that the Coney Island Amusement Park, Dominican Republic,
during an unspecified period, had incurred $4000 in
expenses and showed a $12,000 profit.

: On May 21, 1964, PH T-2 advised that BEN GQLOB
aboke with ANGELO BRUNO, and asked BRUNO to remove NORMAN
FROMKIN as operator of Coney Island. GOLOB wanted to
replace FROMKIN in this capacity, GOLOB said that FROMKIN
sent $45,000 ast year to his wife in the United States,
and that the "returns" made by FROMKIN indicate that they
are making little money from Coney Island. GOLOB is of
the opinion that FROMKIN is siphoning off a great deal of
the proceeds from Coney Island, Further, the only person
FROMKIN is afraid of is ANGELO BRUNO, and the only person
to whom he will answer is BRUNO,

GOLOB stated that there are three owners of
Coney Island, namely ANGELO BRUNO, NORMAN FROWKIN, and
BERNARD ALLEN,

“ Aecording to GOLOB, the. Dominican Republic is
awaiting a 25 million dollar loan from the U, S, Government,
and. contacts with officials in the Dominican Republic
for the purpose of establishing any type of. gambling
activities have not been good pending the receipt of this
loan. Currently, there is a. junta of three civilians
backed by the Army ruling the Dominican Republic. Slot
machines are no longer in operation; however, two easinos
are still operating.

-.95 = -

XN i

Docld:32299522 Page 73


, o~
C : oY

PH 92-44)
EDH: pgo
(2)
6. BRUNO's Involvement with GEORGE BUCHER,

Representative of Local 37,

International Upholsterers Union,

Philadelphia, Pa. ;,

PH T-1. advised that GEORGE BUCHER, accompanied by

RAYMOND MARTORANO, had a discussion with MARIO RICCOBENE
and ANGELO BRUNO on March 11, 1964, at Penn Jersey Vending
Company.

E, LEGITIMATE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES

1. Miami Pest Control Company,
Miami, Fla.

- 109 ~

L

Docld:32299522 Page 74


PH 92-444
EDE: pgo
(1) i
2.. G@ and M Realty Company,
3411 Coulter Street,

Philadelphia, Pa. 7

It “has previously: been reported that the principals
of captioned company are CARLO GAMBINO, of New York City,
and PETER MAGGIO, brother-in-law of ANGELO BRUNO.

"PH T-21 advised on April 20, 1964, that ANGELO
BRUNO: purchased on April. 20,°1964, with cash.a Treasurer's
chéck in the amount of $32,000 at the Broad Street. Trust
Company, 8th and’ Christian Streets, Philadelphia. Check
bore #226 777, was made payable to PETER MAGGIO, and was
dated April 20, 1964,

PH T-20 advised that PETER MAGGIO received a -
cashier's check #A 850 81, drawn on Lafayette National
Bank, New York City, in thé amount of $32,000, payable to
the G and M Realty Corporation.

~ lll -

L

Docld:32299522 Page 75


=

—
c

PH 92-Hldh
EDH: pgo
(1)

3. .Pénn Jersey Vending ‘Company,
8th and Catharine Streets;

Philadelphia, Pa. :

It has. previously been reported that Penn Jersey
Vending Company, controlled by ANGELO BRUNO, has an operating
eontract with John's Vending Company, operated by RAYMOND:
MARTORANO, .PH T-14 has advised that John's Vending Company
is actually owned by HARRY "HUNCHBACK" RICCOBENE, who is
presently confined Lewisberg Penitentiary, for a narcotics
violation.

; PH T-14 advised on May 7, 1964, that HARRY —
RICCOBENE had issued: instruetions to MARIO RICCOBENE to
continue efforts for John's Vending Company to buy complete
control of Penn Jersey Vending Company. HARRY RICCOBENE
desired this because of the notoriety of ANGELO BRUNO,

PH .T=2 advised on May 29, 1964, RAYMOND MARTORANO
paid ANGELO BRUNO a commission ‘cheek in the amount of $709.38.
This commission check was for the month of April 1964 and
represented BRUNO's commission for approximately 105
locations. : - '

4, _Ranchland Corporation

PH T-2 advised on May 11, 1964, that ANGELO BRUNO
was claiming for tax purposes that he made $10,000 on
the sale of the land at 3rd and Oregon Avenue, Philadelphia.
BRUNO was uncertain as te whether this. sum should be
declared as a capital gain or as earnéd income. BRUNO's
tax accountant, JOE WILSON,decided for him that it should
be declared as a capital. gain inasmuch as BRUNO. had the
land for more than six months prior to the sale.

i Fy. TRAVEL
April 20-24, : 1964
On April 20, 1964, ANGELO BRUNO departed Philadelphia

~ 113 -

Docld:32299522 Page 76
