# docid-32585584

## Page 1

FD-263 (Rey. 1-7-74)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVE-TIGATION

SEE ASTERIS

REFORTINGOFFICE

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

COHFIDENTIAL

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka

DATE

AR 2 1 1975

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOQ.

1/6/75 - 4/9/75 y

REPORT MADE BY

SA WILLIAM W. THURMAN, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED BY

man

AFPROPRIATH

FTER

1.225

CLASSIFTED RECTSTONS FTNATTZAD

BY DESIRESAL 2

EN COMMETREE (DRC)

DATE: 10|8/85

RENCES:

New York airtel to Chicago dated 1/21/75IO

Chicago report of SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER,

dated 2572

chicago airtel to Los Angeles dated 2/6/75.70

1/24

Chicago airtel

to New York dated 2/10/7510

Chicago airtel

to Miami dated 2/10/75,50

New York airtel to Chicago dated 2/21/75 f

Chicago airtel to Miami dated 2/24/75,10

CONTAINED

SIFIED

Los Angeles airtel to Chicago dated 3/6/75$°

and

Т 13/84

airtel to

Casted i set one 31217510

(5,

SIIP

APPROPRIA

ранні

Bernary on DADD

AND FIELD

ADVISED BY

1351718

SLIP (S) O

-DATE

CONVIC.

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

& NONE

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

IVES INO

[YES BiJNO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

Houl

4- Bureau (92-3171)

(1 - Legat, Mexico City)

1 - USA, Chicago

1 - AIC, Chicago Field Office

(ATTN: PETER F. VAIRA)

2 - Chicago (92-349)

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-3171-7587 REC5

3 APP

1975

1S61:

10 B

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

OC. AAG, Criminal Diviston,

Diasnolations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Ewd Organized Crunc and Trieseteering

How Fwd.Section, Boord

By

57MA.

1975

PROC

CULE IDENTIAN

-A-

DocId: 32585584 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CG 92-349

INFOKMANTS

Source

CG T-1 is

MEX

170

Date Contacted

2/4/75

Vii

Contacting Agent

Legat. Mexico City

On 1/23/75, MEX 237 advised that JORGE CASTILLO,

GIANCANA's alleged attorney. was believed to have graduated

from the University of Texas. He and his wife MARIA LUISA

reside at Lava 135 in the Pedregal Section of Mexico City.

CASTILLO's wife is the sister of FREDDY CARRANZA who operates

Freddy's Steak House in Mexico City and has been associated

with the subject. d

Source advised that the CASTILLO's have four

children, JORGE, JR., believed to work in his father's law

firm; ALEJANDRO, MAURICIO, and LORENE. LORENE is believed

to have attended school in Canada and recently married the

son of a Mexican Cabinet ranking officer. & p

4

Source advised CASTILLO is believed to have met

a number of prominent American clients including the

Rockefeller foundation.

Other clients are a man named

MECON who owns the New Orleans Saints, and the Houston Oaks

Hotel, and KARL RESTROM, a resident of Acapulco who -founded

loni Permanents. CAstILLo is also to have represented Carte

Blanche, United

Artists, and holiday Inns. u

Source advised CASTILLO. has had some association

with actress LISA FARRADAY, who is married to (FNU) ANDERSON

from Grosse Pointe Michigan On

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32585584

Page 2

---

