JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

6/12/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10278-10131

HQ

105-86025-9TH NR 34

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION =

_ _ RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

Document Information
FBI .
DREW, WILLIAM MAYO JR.
DIRECTOR, FBI

07/10/1962
6

LCA, ACA, GROUP, CHRISTIAN ANTI-COMMUNIST FRONT,
DISBAND, MEDIA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

06/22/1998

INDEFINITE

v9.1
DocId:32301296 Page 1


rirmres

Vu

1S UNGLASS

VPA Re

DIN [OS -

ORIGINAL FIL

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:
o~.

Ace ee
EtcASS
q

NOTATIONS TEQ BY Bip E Seb)
0 hod Uren

vs. covenant
ad In 5

DocId:32301296 Page 2


L

MM 105-3196 Se
t

that it had originally been sponsored by some ur
cultural ; group.. In connection with CONTE's broadcast,
he mentioned the name of the station as ‘WRUL' and-when
askec to repeat it, did so the same manner. It is.
noted, however, that he the station manager as Mr.
BRENT and that New York x of June 15, 1962, (Bufile
109-554, New York le 105-352 > page 7 sets forth
information identifying a Mr. BRENT as the president o
radio stati \ in New Yo City. Accordingly, it
possible ti CONTE is working for station #WRL rather then
WRUL, as he indicated.

<nown

ke

contact with CIA a i Miami for s and
that he furnishes chem formation which. he receives
in letters from Cuba in respons¢ to his radio broadcasts.
He noted that the CIA representative has never ackgowledged
to him that they are sponsoring his broadcasts. CH(u)

AS CONTE has disbanded the subject ‘organization
and is active in radio propagan work,[apparently for cL) U)
no further investigation of this matter is believed

warranted at this time.

dential sources mentioned in the details

, contacted on May 23, 1962, by
JAMES DWYER.

contacted on May 10, 1962, by
E. DAVIS, JR.

PSI CARLOS ALVAREZ, contacted on May 17,
1962, by SA WILE Lidl HAYO DREW, JR.

PSI HECTOR FEBLES, contacted on June 11,
196 by SA WILLIAM MAYO DREW, JR.

-~Be ¢
COVER PAGE h

DocId:32301296 Page 3

