# docid-32301208

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10278-10043

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2914-263, 264

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, PG

TITLE :

DATE: 03/01/1962

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

GM, SMO, ASSOC, MEETING, HOLIDAY TICKET AGENCY,

INSTAL, MISUR, BUSS, CIANCUTTI, LOUIS, GAMBLING ACT,

RODITIS, LOUIS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32301208

Page 1

22

---

## Page 2

PG 92-236-Sub 2

secame clear that they did not intend to leave, it was decide

that the risk of discovery was too great, and the mission was

called off.

on 2/21/02 in the afternoon, SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH III received

a telephone call from New Kensington Police Chief DAN JOSEPHS,

who asked if the Pittsburgh Office had been working in New

Kensington that morning.

Chief JOSEPHS was asked why he had

made that inquiry, and

he said his early morning shift Desk

Sergeant told him that LOUIS CIANCUTTI had reported that four

men in a car had been "hanging around" CIANCUTTI's house in a

suspicious manner. CIANCUTTI had a license number and asked

to have it checked. Since the license number was not found in

the license registration books furnished to the Police Depart-

ment by the Pennsylvania Bureau of Motor Vehicles, the Desk

Sergeant assumed the car was a

"secret" registration to some

law enforcement agency,

probably Federal.

When asked who the

Desk Sergeant was, Chief JOSEPHS replied,.

"RODITIS."

On 2/23/62 PG 612-Cwas asked by SA THOMAS G. FORNIA III

whether the "heat" was still on in New Kensington, and informant

replied that SA FORSYTH should know the answer without asking

since everyone in town knew the "Feds" were in New Kensington

almost every night.

on 2/27/62 PCI JAMES W. BURGART was asked the same question and

his reply was practically the same.

PCI said he felt that

"Government Agents" were still trying to contact individuals

who would testify before the current FGJ against the MANNARINOS.

He said he had heard rumors that "the boys"

might be following

the "Government Agents" in an attempt to ascertain the identi-

ties of individuals they contacted:

on 3/2/02 SA FRANCIS LARKIN, Intelligence Division, IRS:

Pittsburgh, advised SA FORSYTH that he and others from his

office make frequent evening trips to New Kensington ano

environs in order to interview prospective FGJ witnesses and

to conduct surveillances in connection with some of their

investigations.

=2-

DocId: 32301208 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-236-Sub 2

When they were contacted, as set out above, both PG 612-C and

PCI BURGART said they have noted that GABRIEL MANNARINO spends

considerably less time in New Kensington than was formerly

the case, due to the "continuing heat" by the Federal Govern-

ment.

They said that MANNARINO still visits the back room of

Lime, contamuns.

the Supper Club of America in New Kensington but on an infre-

quent and irregular basis.

PCI BURGART estimated MANNARINOS

visits to occur about once each week for anywhere from a half

an hour to an hour, but he could not say if any one day was

more likely than any other.

Due to

the physical problems involved, the Pittsburgh office

cannot be absolutely certain of security if an attempt should

be made for a misur installation at the Supper Club of America.

The site is a street-level storefront which can be entered

only through its one door

in front. It is located on a very

short side street between two of New Kensington's main thoro-

fares

, and the brilliance of the street lights is such as to

illuminate all portions of the entrance.

Surveillance has

proven that traffic passes at all hours of the night.

lock is of the shaler type, with mushroom pins, requiring each

to be picked..

Due to the

lighted ana exposed nature of.the

door, the time required to open the lock would be increasing

the danger of discovery.

Because of the

visits, and of the lack of security, a misur installation will

not be

requested at

the Supper Club

of America office at this

time.

However, the Pittsburgh Office will be alert for improve-

ment in conditions at that location and will continue to attempt

to find another location where a feasible and productive

installation can be made regarding GABRIEL MANNARINO.

- 3-

DocId: 32301208

Page 3

---

