JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

5/28/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10216-10431
RECORD SERIES: HQ :
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2918-22ND NR 95
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, PG
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/17/1961

PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS :
SMO, SHAPIRO, MORRIS, BKG, TRA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/27/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

vod
Docld:32296155 Page 1

24


cf
7

| -— ~~ |
e og)

3/y/er
AIRTEL
g TOs _— BERBOTOR, BE (92-2934) (92-2918)
FROM: ~ gnc, PIPTSBURGH (92-236) (92-228) y
SUBJECT: GABRIEY MANNARINO, aka.
3 MANNARINO, ala. .
AR

Reuyairtels, 2/27/61, 3/9/61, and 3/16/62.

en 3/17/61, an effort to locate MORRIS SHAPIRO, aka., TOPSY,
at his residence, 3589 Beochwood Blvd, Pitteburgh, Fa., was
made by SA THOMAS C. FORSYTHIZ22, An unidentified elderly man
advised that SHAPIRO is in Plorida, address unknown, trying to
obtain employment.

Gn the game date, former POL ALPRED CHARLES ZAPPA, Pittsburgh,
advised SA FORSYTH, as follows:

fe heard rumor from some gamblers at the Beacon Club, Squirrel
Hill Section, Pittburgh, that on the morning of 3/17/61 TOPSY
SHAPIRO was Stabbed in Pla. The extent efhis injuries is not
known, but 1f true, it 1a peldeved that the asdault was ordered
by the MANHARINOs because fPOPSY was trying to welsh on hia debt

a
a
to them. i

g4.—-LNY-F.

on 3/37/61, Mra. A.J. WISE, JR, 811 30. Negley Ave., Pittshrgh,
Pa.; advised SA FORSYTH that her husband, & Geological Engineer,
who is president of Kendil and Gas Co., New Kensington, Paes

4s out of town and will not return until the end of next

week, She feela certain he will be glad to speak with SA
FORSYTH because secretly he has expressed somo discontent

with his New Kensington bueiness associates.

Pittsburgh will attempt to verify that the info concerning
SHAPIRO after more detalle are obtaineds

g
BOTH SUBJECTS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED AD. Gti on

Bureau (3 + 92-2924). — 92-2918) BY
3. Pitteburgh (1 - 92-236) (92-228) 13 MAR 22 1961
gor:em (8)

BG war £64661 an

L ; . ‘ eee Gree
Docld:32296155 Page 2

A

