JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

4/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90031-10013
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 62-38824-970
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: EVANS
TO: BELMONT
TITLE:
DATE: — 01/30/1962
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
CRIME CONDITIONS IN GREATER MIAMI FLORIDA
CRIME CONDITIONS MM
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified esbtceaaseeet
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/18/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1
Docld:32324754 Page 1


ee

PP) Brbivibiioa.

aditeors

a7
ay
oc
x
wv

‘OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 .
. %<

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

{To : Mr. Belmohiv/ pate: 1/30/62

OS

Tele. Room
Ingram
Gandy

From: , A. Evans Gon.

vo |

enim ¢ CONDITIONS -IN.THE.... 4s a

SUBJECT: Ae A VATS :
GREATER R MIAMI F ELORIDA;~-AREA~: 4 2B.
b2- 7Fay - Te7,) lide
ith reference to the carrent report just received from ¢
Miami~Division concerning crime conditions. and relating. specifically= oh fd
to corruption in the Miami Police-Department, “the report states as

follows: : ae a Pha ‘a.

“With reference to the pay offs to the. Policy Department, « |:
this money is/collected By inwater, father“of Jacl Rainwater... 5

‘Rainwater has the connection the Miami Polic tment’ and ‘

turns.this money over ta.an individual reportedly easel eto

turns it over to Pei The informant states it is’

Tanner who actually runs ins the Miami Police Department. He further

stated Buin determines how this money is split up.in the Police usta XY 5
a,

Fh
3

INRECORDED COPY FILED f# E23 QQ Y se

“The informant who furnished ‘the above information, Tellmon
Stallings;:a local gambler, is a regularly established criminal informa
Red Rainwater, identified as.a:collector of pay offs to the Police, is the -
father of a prominent gambler who-has connections with the Police Depart-
i ment‘and who turns-the graft BOL over. to a."bag man” known only by the

name Campbell. a ee ft
REC 2 fal —790
Since the report dogs not specifically refer to any payments
made:to Chief o of Police, 'W: adly: SAC Grapp advised orally today
that itis public "knowle ere has, been extensive publicity concern-
ing the attempts of Melv: eese, City M age. Police.Commissioner,
to remove or demote ¢ Captain Tanner. ‘en defended throughout

AS

the years by his Close friend, Chief Walter Head. Reese has advised the
Cy, on a-most confidential basis that he has two investigators working

from? his) office. who are investigating Headly'and Tanner concerning their.

-| Lhonesty, Begsible pay offs and misconduct in office.and he has reservations

‘Ras. $ $9 tb the hondstyf ‘of both. E seiee
1 “Ate fohr ZsrER 8 102
1 - Mr. “alone
1- Mr. Rosen Di — et
Training and Inspection Divisio:
AN 1p BS

(10) aur

Docld:32324754 Page 2
