# docid-32291834-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10208-10110

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-2055

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

07/03/1967

5

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, ASSOC, DALITZ, AVERILL, SOLD, RES, ACAPULCO, MX

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

4

Redact

03/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

141

---

## Page 2

• Di (90505-22-61)

At 15 PEr SAP

ADX DETE

NATI

I ransmit.

AIRTEL

IT.TZED

(Type in pl

7-3-67.

ANE AGENCIES

OFFICES.

BX ROOTING

So Mapse: 14)

ASIDE FOR

U1059 1

(Priority)

- 4-14-50

P91178

CONFID

He 035

OF, RUVIEW

13-47

RANVINOS NOT 4

des

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

*FROM:

REGAT, MEXICO (92-13)

UNANT I-RACKETEERING

SANUEL M. STANLAN I

aka.

(P)

Dres

Re Mexico City airtel to Bureau 6-16-67, and Bureau

airtels to Mexico City 6-20823-67. 8121

As instructed, no action is being taken concerning'

technical coverage of the post office box in

AN THIS DOCUMENT.

Bureau airtel 6-23-67 reported information from a

New York informant 6-21-67 that Subject was currently residing

at the home of Las Vegas casino figure MOE DALLIL In ACapuLCO

The source also advised DALITZ' wife is attempting to sell thi

RELEASE OF CIA IMFORMATION

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

residence.

This relates to MORRIS BARNEY DALITZ, BuFile 92-3060.

As previously reported to his file, he purchased a luxurious

home in the Las Brisas section of Acapulco. However he is not

known to have resided in this home in recent years.

Instead,

his divorced wife, AveriuL Daulie, has been residing there and

has been very active socially..in Acapulco. She has been noted

in contact over the years with JIMMY HOFFA and ROY COHN during

their visits to Acapulco. Most of the information concerning

her in Acapulco has been received from FRANK BRANDSTETTER

(PROTECT), the Manager of the Las

Brisas

in the same

vicinity as the DALITZ residence.

-3171-2055

7

Bureau

(1 - Liaison)

New York, Info, 92-195

2 - Mexico City

RSC: wr

les sent

100T a

83 Joine

Sent

0711016M

#I JULE

1967

Aured 71967cial Agent in Charge.

EXFA

DATE OF DECLASS

741428

NDEFINITE

---

## Page 3

MEX

92-13

The office for the sub-division was closed, but it

was determined that the persons in charge of the sub-division

reside in the

"Casa Amarilla" located on Estrella Norte Street.

Estrella Norte Street also leads to Nubes Street

It is noted

that No. Z 1s the only house on Nubes Street.ip

It was determined that Mrs. EDITH BUNDE LITTLE resides

at the "Casa Amarilla" and is the administrator.of.the. sub-

division.

She is a middle-aged person, considered

ver

astute

and distrustful, and much feared by her servants

She was contacted on the pretext of locating a

CHAIM on Nubes Street.

She advised that Nubes No. 2 was the

property of Mr. LENNART NYLANDER, who was the Swedish Ambassador

(she said he was the ambassador of her country). Mr. NYLANDER

sold the house less than two years ago to a woman, who subse-

quently sold it to two Americans who currently occupy it.

claimed not to know the name of

would clearly have to know this

the

She

Americans, although she

Some workers in the neighborhood were questioned and

advised that Nubes No. 2 was occupied by an American couple

whose names they did not know.

They advised there was a black

Mercedes at the house.

A pretext inquiry for Mr. NYLANDER was made at the

house and a young maid advised that the house was occupied by

a wealthy American named RICARDO SCALZEMII. (A(UL)

A black 1965 Mercedes with Distrito Federal license

507-SY, was noted parked inside. A pretext telephone call for

Mx. NYLANDER was made to telephone 2-61-75.

A man answered

that NYLANDER no longer lived

there but had

the house to

a Mas. ALIEN who is the current occupant.

On 6-30-67, PCI RODOLFO CANDIANI (PROTECT) advised that

D.F. license 507-SY is registered to Las Nubes, S.A. (S.A. trans-

lates Incorporated), Plaza de la Republica 32,

Mexico, D.F.

As

previously reported, Plaza de la Republiça

32 1s the address

of Subject's attorney, JORGE CASTILLO

CANEL

DENTAL

SECRET

---

