# docid-32316416

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10347-10036

HQ

CR 92-2831-681

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE: 03/04/1963

PAGES:

25

SUBJECTS :

JAMES PLUMERI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32316416

Page

5

---

## Page 2

FFS 33 (Rev. 3-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

MEYER LANSKY, aka

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

MAR 4 1963

12/14/62 - 2/28/63

REPORT MADE BY

TYPED BY

JAMES J. KEARNEY

AL

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

REFERENCE: Report of SA JAMES J. KEARNEY, dated 12-19-62,

at Miami.

= -

ENCLUSURES: TO BUREAU - 2

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIHIED

DATE 10/4183 FYSPIGSKIPMS

235,255

Two copies of informant characterization

memorandum.

ADMINISTRATIVE

A copy of this report is being furnished to New

York and Boston for their information as they have conducted

extensive Investigation in the past and will undoubtedly

conduct additional investigation in the future in this matter.

No specific leads are being set out as all leads /

are being handled by airtel

and teletype as they arise.

APPROVED

We APECIAL

COPIES MADE:

3-Bureau (92-2831) (Eno. 2)

-USA, Miami

(Attn.:

WILLIAM KENNEY)

1-Boston

(92-144)

1-New York

3-Miami

SHECY 92-102,

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-283/-68 pc-47

22 MAR 6 1963

- COPES NARE ATE 619/78

DISSEMINATIOI

AGENCY..

RECORDIOF STACHED REPORT

22C4217

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. -

HOW FWD.

(SEE BUFILE

17254)

103

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

16-76324-1

STATISE

----4--==

EMil

DocId: 32316416

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-102

January 12, 1963 - No significant activity.

January 13, 1963 - No significant activity.

January 14, 1963 - TEDDY tells the maid that one of their

closest friends 1s the Comptroller at

the Fontainebleau. This is FRANK

MARGULIES, who has been known to be

an acquaintance of MEYER LANSKY.

The maid tells Mrs. LANSKY that a

Mr. GELTMAN called

and wanted Mr.

LANSKY to call him back.

January 15, 1963 - HY ABRAMS/visited TEDDY LANSKY at her

home.

January 16, 1963 -

TEDDY tells JACK LANSKY that MEYER

is coming in from Alma, Michigan, at

4:18 P.M., on January 18, 1963.

January 17, 1963 - No significant activity.

January 18, 1963 - TEDDY advises the maid that she is going

out to the airport to pick up her husband.

January 19, 1963 - No significant activity.

January 20, 1963 - TEDDY tells MEYER that MIKE WASSELI wants

to get in touch with him.

January 21, 1963 - Technical interference causes the

discontinuance of this informant.

The following information was furnished by the

New York Office on January 14, 1963:

On November 20, 1962, NY 3586-C-TE advised SA

LEONARD H. MC COY that in

the afternoon of November 19, 1962,

he visited the Greenwich Village area of New York City in the

vicinity of Thompson and Bleecker Streets.

The informant

advised that he met JOE ROSS 1 (JOSEPH DE NEGRIS) who asked

him to visit with him at the San Remo Cafe located at 93

E.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32316416 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 92-102

MacDougal Street.

Arter one-half hour or so at the san

Remo,

they were joined by BOBBY BLANCHE (ROBERT BELANGI

who made a telephone call shortly after his arrival.

Within

ten or fifteen minutes the informant stated that PAT RYAN

( PASQUALE EBOLI) came in and held a conversation with BLANCHE.

BLANCHE then requested that the informant play Gin Rummy with

him, but stated that he had some business calls to make and

invited the informant along.

The informant stated that BLANCHE

was driving a new (1962 or 1963) black Oldsmobile.

They

proceeded from the San Remo, according to the informant, to

a garage located at Sheriff

and Delancey Streets which the

informant thought was called the Standard Garage. Here

BLANCHE met one JACK GRILL whom the informant described

as

age 60-65, 5' 10"

, Jewish.

The informant stated that GRILL

had a metal box under his arm, and when he came into the

garage, he opened the box and

took out approximately ten

white paper envelopes and then gave them to BLANCHE. From

this location, accoraing to the informant, BLANCHE drove

to Lenox Hall, located at East 2nd Street near Avenue D

(256 East and Street), New York City.

BLANCHE, along

with the informant, got out of the car and met the Manager

of the premises at this location, and BLANCHE handed him

four or five of the envelopes.

After they got back into the car, the informant

asked BLANCHE as to the purpose

of the envelopes, and BLANCHE

replied that he was paying off "their men"

• BLANCHE further

explained that JACK GRILL was In charge of the payroll for

MEYER LANSKY's men.

From this loeation, BLANCHE then drove

to the Ridgewood section of Queens where they stopped at a

location on Palmetto Street near Myrtle Avenue (may be the

Lounge Bar which has been previously described as a gambling

and bookmakers' hangout).

Here BLANCHE explained was the

described may de the

headquarters for the football and baseball pools which were

within the exclusive control of the "Jewish mob"

• BLANCHE

stated that the baseball and football pools were operated

out of Queens because in this particular area they had the

best police protection.

BLANCHE further stated, after

delivering several of his envelopes at the Palmetto street

location, that they had paid a lot of money to some very

big men in Queens during the past.

sing nare the yuring

F.

COVER

PAGE

10050

DocId: 32316416 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 92-102

The informant stated that he and BLANCHE then

drove back to Manhattan and stopped at Manny Wolf's

at 49th and Third Avenue where they met two

Jewish

"HERBIE" and

According to the informant, BLANCHE gave each

one a

white envelope.

BLANCHE also gave "HERBIE" and

"KATZ" the odds on the football games to be played or

Thanksgiving Day.

BLANCHE then invited him (the informant'

to come with him to the Hawaiian Room at the Hotel

Lexington.

The informant protested that he was not

dressed sufficiently well to enter the Hawaiian Room,

but BLANCHE stated that he could come in overalls so

as he was with him (BLANCHE) • At the Hawaiian Room, the

informant stated that BLANCHE excused himself and went to

a table where he met two couples and had a fifteen minute

conversation.

When he returned, BLANCHE told the informant that

one of the men he had been talking to was "HYMIE" SIEGEL,

who, according to BLANCHE,

was very close to MEYER LanSKY.

BLANCHE stated that SIEGEL worked closely with MEYER LANSKY

and was a very big gambler. According to BLANCHE, SIEGEL

was a very fastidious person and lived in a hotel somewhere

off Lexington Avenue in the 30s or 40s. According to

BLANCHE, SIEGEL bathed at least three times daily, and would

not wear a suit over six or seven times, and paid

• the hotel

where he stayed to have the wallpaper in his room changed

at least once every year.

BLANCHE went on to

state that

"HYMIE"

is a real gentleman and not like that"MUSTACHIO

TOMMY (THOMAS EBOLI) who is your boss!" The informant

stated that he then asked BLANCHE why he, being Italian,

worked for the Jewish mob.

been with the Jewish mob for many years and found them to be

Seen nod be hany

BLANCHE stated that he had

more trustworthy and generous people to work with than the

Italians.

trustwort informant,

The informant further asked BLANCHE why it was

that TOMMY RYAN was having meetings with the Jewish mob, and

BLANCHE replied that "TOMMY" needed their assistance in

handling labor matters, especially since he was interested

in the garment industry.

The informant also stated that he

asked BLANCHE if they had come

to any agreement with "NAT's"

union, and BLANCHE replied that everything was settled and

taken

care of.

BLANCHE further told the informant that he has

an office located at Seventh Avenue and 50th Street, without

giving a specific street number.

G.

COVER

PAGE

#J- 10080

DocId: 32316416 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 92-102

The informant advised on November 23, 1962,

that he had gone to Aqueduct Racetrack on November 23, 1962,

with BOBBY BLANCHE (BELANGI) and there they had met JACK

GRILL, PERRY FISHMAN from Philadelphia, and "LITTLE CARMINE"

BATTAGLIA from Newark, New Jersey.

The informant stated

that most of the conversation was

about the horses and he

had nothing to report other than "LITTLE CARMINE" BATTAGLIA

told him he

could always be contacted at Sorrento's Restaurant

In Newark.

had gone to the stand gene do teen a see meet he

November 24, 1962, and met RED LEVINE and JACK GRILL. The

informant stated

that RED LEVINE is an old strong arm man

for the Jewish mob and had worked with MEYER LANSKY for

many years.

He stated that LEVINE told him that MEYER

LANSKY is a very sick man. LEVINE further told the informant

that JACK GRILL was leaving on a vacation in Florida, but

would also travel to New Orleans and Phoenix. He stated that

the Jewish mob controlled certain hotels in Miami, New Orleans,

and Phoenix and all that it would cost GRILL was his trans-

portation.

LEVINE further advised the informant that "they"

had a very good hitsio far because the football pool had not

taken any heavy

He stated that they made a lot of

money on the Green Bay Packers-Detroit Lions football game

because almost everyone had bet on the Packers. LEVINE

further stated that

they had a bank of almost three million

dollars and if the Packers had won, they would have broken the.

bank.

Informant stated that BOBBY BLANCHE (ROBERT

BELANGI also stopped at the Standard Garage on the same

evening and told JACK GRILL that he would meet him later

at Manny Wolf's on Third Avenue and 49th Street.

He stated that LEVINE complained of not being

allowed to frequent Aqueduct and Belmont Racetracks since

he had been ejected from the premises by Pinkerton guards

on several occasions.

It is noted that JOSEPH VALACHI has described

RED LEVINE as an old Jewish mobster who was one of the

killers who impersonated police officers and were given

the contract to kill SALVATORE MARANZO in 1931.

н.

COVER PAGE

E09-10058

DocId: 32316416 Page 6

---

## Page 7

MM 92-102

The following information was furnished by

NY 3386-C-TE on the dates indicated:

On December 15, 1962, informant advised that

subject's wife, TEDDY LANSKY, remarked that subject had

"a meeting" the previous evening (December 14, 1962) and

remain in their hotel room by herself.

On December 23, 1962, informant telephonically

contacted the New York Office and advised that MEYER LANSKY

was moving out of the Drake Hotel and into HYMIE SIEGEL'S

apartment at the Peter Cooper Hotel. Informant did not

know whether SIEGEL was staying in his apartment. Informant

pointed out that no one was answering the phone. Informant

went on to explain that TEDDY LANSKY went out to spend

Christmas with her grandchildren on Long Island as previously

Brandon e

planned.

Informant stated that although TEDDY LANSKY'S

former husband, BILL SCHWARTZ, Is living in the same house

where she stays, this does not seem to bother MEYER LANSKY.

Informant also

stated that MEYER LANSKY always refers to

TEDDY LANSKY's son of a former marriage, RICHARD SCHWARTZ,

in a condescending manner when discussing SCHWARTZ with

TEDDY.

Informant advised that MEYER LANSKY asked his

daughter, SANDRA LANSKY, to meet him at the office of Dr.

GREENBERG, the psychiatrist for MEYER's first wife, ANN

CITRON LANSKY. Informant stated that Dr. GREENBERG has

offices at the Institution for Research and Psychology,

440 East 80th Street, New York City.

On December 24, 1962, informant telephonically

contacted the New York Office and advised that SANDRA LANSKY

visited Dr. GREENBERG at nine o'clock that morning and that

MEYER LANSKY was already in GREENBERG's office.

According

to informant, Dr. GREENBERG advised SANDRA LANSKY that she

was mentally

Incompetent and that if she did not do what he

instructed, he was going to have her confined to a mental

institution.

Informant said that SANDRA LANSKY was instructed

by Dr. GREENBERG to return to him once a week. She was also

I.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32316416 Page 7

---

## Page 8

- man.

MM 92-102

ANN LANSKY did not state whether or not LANSKY and LEVINE

were ever in business together, but she did remark they

are

still close associates.

According to statements of ANN LANSKY, "RED"

LEVINE hates HYMIE SIEGEL for

some unknown reason and

whenever

they are together,

he openly insults him to his

face.

IV 90-C* furnished information from January 12,

1963, through January 30, 1963, which revealed

that MEYER

LANSKY is receiving a large share of the money from the

skimming operations at the Fremont Hotel, Las Vegas, and

that RICHARD KORNICK, EDDIE LEVINSON's brother-in-law, is

the principal courier between the Miami, Florida,

and the New

Jersey areas.

This information is fully reported in

"Criminal Intelligence Program, Fremont Hotel, Las Vegas

Division"

INFORMANTS

MM T-1 is NY 3586-C-TE

MM T-2 is NY 3845-C*

MM T-3 1s MM 826-C*

MM T-4 is CSNY-1

MM T-5 is NY 3851-C*

MM T-6 Is NY 1449-C

MM T-7 IS PCI MARTIN BERGMAN

MM T-8 Is NY 2512-C

MM T-9 is NY 204-C

MM T-10 is MM 509-C

L.*

COVER PAGE

SN60 88885

DocId: 32316416

Page 8

---

