# docid-32291401-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10207-10177

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-12-384

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/10/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

CIP, GAMBLING, INTV, RMD

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

5010-104-01

UNITED STATES GI

RNMENT

Memorar lum•

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 12/10/62

SAC, DALLAS (94-265) (P)

SUBJECT:

INTERVIEW PROGRAM

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

DALLAS DIVISTON 2

PROGRAM

Re Bureau airtel to Albany, 5/7/62; Dallas letter

to Bureau, 11/10/62.

was interviewed by BuAgents in connection with an investiga-

tion of an ITSP case, Oklahoma City origin. MATTHEWS denied

any knowledge of the

ITSP matter and did not furnish any

pertinent information.of any kind. From prior investigation

MATTHEWS has always been known to be very "closed mouth" and

is known to have a deep dislike for all law enforcement.

agencies.

TEXA

MATTHEWS had been located through the interview

O1 GEORGE FREDERICK RECHENBERG, Subject of Dallas Ille

162-210.

RECHENBERG had been interviewed by BuAgents on

11/26 and 27/62. During the initial interview, RECHENBERG

stated he would

gladly discuss gambling in the Dallas area

as known to him through his years of residence in Dallas,

his association with known gamblers and the underworld and

nis experience as a bookmaker.

He stated, however, he would

not furnish any pertinent information concerning present

activities of anyone else other than himself.

RECHENBERG

appeared to be cooperative and when reinterviewed on 11/27/62

furnished his knowledge of underworld and gambling activities

in Dallas during the years that Dallas was an alleged wide-

open town. He did state however that he was presently operating

as a small time bookie and that he obtained his line from

PHILIP STEPHENS, BOSCO (DL 92-331). He also furnished the

current phone number of MATTHEWS. as LA 6-6187. Because of

his attitude,

the Dallas Qffice is contemplating reinterview

of RECHENBERG with a possible development of him as an informant.

tarion to date has failed to indicate that RECHENBERd,

h'his operations as a bookmaker, is in violation of any

Federal statutes; however, investigation is continuing

and if

it continues to prove non-productive, efforts to develop

RECHEBERGSaSha!Sinformant will be initiated.

COPIED FOR ISCA 62-9

1-12-384-

2/23/18 REC- 36

ENTIL SERI

18 DEC

1952

(162-208)

M>1 - Dallas

(92-213)

- 187 Dalzag 10942265

MB/7/.

(6)

50.1-101.d

---

