# docid-32332889

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90104-10187

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2940-31

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 06/19/1958

'PAGES:

41

SUBJECTS:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3; 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/27/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF EOUSA, IRS

COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

HH 56792 DocId: 32332889

Page 1

Date:

5/11/201

Released under the John

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NT 56792 Date:

4-10-2018

---

## Page 2

PG 92-226

DETAILS:

A. PERSONAL HISTORY AND BACKGROUND

1. Birth Data

I-I, a rellable source abroad, advised on April 30, 1958,

that SEBASTIAN LA ROCCA, the son of IGNAZIO and ROSARIA

SCANCARELLO, was born at Villa Rosa, Italy, on December 19,

v22120

1901. LA ROCCA departed Villa Rosa before 1927, the year

in which the registration of the inhabitants of the com-

munity of Villa Rosa was begun.

2. C1tizensh1p Status

On December 12, 1957, SA WILLIAM R. WALL ascertained from

the records of

the Immigration and Naturalization Service

(INS), Pittsburgh, Pa.,

that JOHN LA ROCCA entered the United

States on September 2, 1910; at New York, New York, aboard

the "Principe De Piemonte.

These same INS records show that on May 12, 1950, LA ROCCA

applied for u. S. citizenship.

On January 20, 1953, a

deportation warrant was issued for LA ROCCA by the District

Director, INS,

Philadelphia,

said warrant was based on

Sections

241 (a) (4) and 212 (a) (12) of the Immigration

Nationality Act.

He was arrested January 21, 1953, and

subsequently given a deportation hearing as an undesirable

alien.

This undesirable status was based on previous arrests

involving LA ROCCA on criminal-type charges.

On August 31,

1953, LA ROCCA testified before an INS Hearing Board that he

had been involved in the numbers racket, bootlegging, and

slot machines, but added that he was no longer Involved in

anything other than legitimate enterprises.

Press,

The

"Pittsburgh

a Pittsburgh daily newspaper, publicized portions of

LA ROCCA's testimony on November 10, 1954, and reported that

LA ROCCA had testified that his financial holdings amounted

to approximately one-quarter of a million dollars and 1f

on are on.

permitted to remain in the United States; LA ROCCA testified

he would not become a burden of the state.

A news release from the "Pittsburgh Press" dated January 27,

1955, stated in part:

"The government today dropped attempt

92-2940-31

-2-

HH

56792 DocId: 32332889 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-226

A news release of the "Pittsburgh Post-Gazette" dated May 15,

1957, reported in part that a Federal indictment against

ex-racketeer JOHN LA ROCCA was ordered reinstated by the

Third Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadelphia, Pa. In an

article dated October 11, 1957, this same newspaper reported

that LA ROCCA went on trial in Federal Court charged with

perjury and making false statements in connection with his

deportation hearing.

Then on October 15, 1957, this same

newspaper reported in part that Federal Judge RABE F. MARSH

had ordered JOHN LA ROCCA acquitted on charges of perjury

and making false statements in connection with his deporta-

tion hearing.

Judge MARSH ruled that the Government had

failed to show clear and convincing proof to back up 1ts

charges.

HAROLD LAUVER, Investigator, Immigration and Naturalization

Service, Pittsburgh, advised SA ROBERT A. VOEGE on March 13,

1958, that his office planned to take action concerning the

Petition of Naturalization filed by LA ROCCA on May 12, 1950,

and which had never been acted upon.

although LA ROCCA had made no new request and had not "pushed"

for action to be taken on the petition filed, his office was

setting up a hearing and was gathering Information regarding

LA ROCCA's moral character, known recent criminal associates

and identities of persons willing to testify against LA ROCCA.

3. Education

T-I advised on April 20, 1958, that it was not possible to

ascertain whether or not LA ROCCA received any formal schooling

during the time that he was in Italy.

On February 13, 1958, FLOYD O. SMITH, Supervising Principal,

and THOMAS J. ADDLEMAN, High School Principal, both of

boro, Pa., where LA ROCCA formerly resided, advised that

Old Yatesboro School had been abandoned and that records

of attendance are not available for students who attended

from

thirty to forty years ago.

Both advised that although

they have been residents of Rural Valley-Yatesboro area for

forty or more years, they could not recall the LA ROCCA

family.

- 4 -

92-2940-31

NW 56792 DooId: 32332889 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-226

1928

At Scranton, Pa., looking for

work.

September 30, 1928

Married in Pittston, Pa., to

the former MARY SMELIK (date

of birth April 2, 1910, at

Jessup, Pa.)

Late 1928 - 1933

Resided with uncle, JOHN LA

VALLI, at Jamestown, N. Y.,

where subject operated a

f11ling station at Cassadaga,

N. Y.,

and during this period

was transporting liquor.

September,

1933 -

October, 1949

February 25, 1944

REVIEWED BY JFK TASK FORCE

1012/17 dc

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

Resided at 6426 Apple Avenue,

Pittsburgh, Pa.

Subject adopted a child

(HOWARD LESLIE HOFFMAN) at

Greensburg, Pa., through the

Westmoreland County Orphans

ON

Court. The father of this

child 1s TONY TERRIGIO (not

further identified) and the

child was born in Greensburg,

Pa., on October 1, 1943.

The

child was then named JOHN.

October, 1949, to present

Subject resides at 900 West

Ingomar Road, Ingomar, Pa.

With regard to LA ROCCA's present residence, It 1s pointed

out that CASIMER J. PELLEGRINI, owner, Casimer J. Pellegrini

Pittsburgh, advised

SA ROBERI A VOEGE on April 24, 1958, that he designed and

directed the building of the home in which LA ROCCA now lives

and which he owns. He said that to duplicate this home today

would cost between $150,000 to $175,000.

It is pointed out that LA ROCCA's whereabouts have not been

known to individuals In his neighborhood or to other avail-

able sources

since about December, 1957. It 1s also pointed

out that the U. S. Marshal's Office in Pittsburgh has had a

subpoena for LA ROCCA to appear before a New York investigating

committee with regard to LA ROCCA's possible presence at the

November 14, 1957, meeting at Apalachin, N. Y.

- 6 -

HH

56792 DooId:32332889

Page 4

---

## Page 5

iber

Part

PG 92-226

The Buffalo Office advised that on March 10, 1958, Miss

EVELYN LEDERER, Clerk, City Court, Dunkirk,

New York, advised

what her records reilect that on December 17, 1930, one CARI

Stel, Manager of the J. G. PICKARD Store, Dunkirk, New York.

obtained a warrant for the arrest of JOHN

LA ROCCA for

disposing of chattel mortgaged property. She stated that on

November 5, 1931, LA ROCCA appeared in court and paid STEIN

$115 for the property originally purchased and the charge

was dismissed.

went out of business advised that the I. G. PICKARD Company

approximately fifteen years ago and that

CARL STEIN is deceased.

on December 23, 1957, FRANK W. MAGILL,

Assistant Chief, Intelligence Division, Internal Revenue

Service, Pittsburgh, advised SA WALL that

JFK Law 11(a)

JEK Law 11(a)

C. ASSOCIATES

Apalachin, New York, Meeting, November 14, 1957

On February 3;

, 1958, Assistant United States Attorney

STEPHEN E. KAUFMAN,

Southern District of New York, made avail-

able to SAA JOHN J. RYAN photostats. of Registration Card

No. B50740 of the Arlington Hotel,

Binghamton, New York,

date stamped on its reverse side 8:58 A.M., November 14,

The registrant, JOHN S. LA ROCCA, (and friend, crossed

written,

"Charge to Onon Canada Dry.

Records at Trans-World Airlines, Wilkes-Barre Scranton Air-

port, at

Avoca, Pa., made available on March 5, 1958, by

RUSS

GARLAN, Manager, to SA FREDERICK T. HOULIHAN, show that

on November 16, 1957, two reservations were made by Medico

Industries, Inc., Pittston,

Pa., for travel on November 16,

1957, from Avoca, Pa., to Pittsburgh, Pa., on Trans-World

- 13 -

192-2940-31

HH

56792 DocId: 32332889

Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-226

Airlines Flight #483, leaving at 10:11 A.M. on November 16,

1957.

At the

time that these two reservations were' made

on November 16, 1957, the passengers identified themselves

as AMATO and LA ROCCO.

The records of telephone calls charged to Pittston OL-47111,

which is listea to Medico Industries, Inc., Pittston, reflect

chat on November 15, 1957, a telephone call charged to thi

number was made to Pittsburgh, Pa., S0-45296.

It is pointed out that the Pittsburgh Telephone Directory

I1sts JOHN LA ROCCA, Brant Road, Ingomar, Pa., telephone

number Forest 45296.

Medico

Industries, Inc., Pittston, is operated by WILLIAM,

PHILIP, ANGELO, CHARLES and SAMUEL MEDICO. WILLIAM MEDICO,

president of this concern, 'is a top hoodlum of the Philadelphia

Office.

On March 12, 1958, a photograph of SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA

was alsplayed to EDWARD JENKINS, ticket agent at Trans-

worla Alrlines, Avoca, Pa., and he advised that he believed

that LA ROCCA waS one

of the two men who had reservations

on Flight #483 on November 16, 1957, and who boarded this

plane at Avoca on November 16, 1957, en route to Pittsburgh.

The

"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette" under date May 2, 1958,

reported that JOHN LA ROCCA was named as one of three men

who escaped the roundup of sixty visiting individuals by

New York State Troopers at Apalachin, N. Y., In November,

1957.

As mentioned previously,

Assistant United States Attorney

KAUFMAN, Southern District of New York, advised that JOHN

LA ROCCA had been registered at the Arlington Hotel, Bing-

hamton, N. Y., on November 14, 1957, the date of the meeting

of hoodlums at Apalachin, N. Y.

On April 16, 1958, Mr. KAUFMAN advised that attempts by

the United States

for

Marshal to obtain service on a subpoena

presence before a Grand Jury in the

Southern District of New York had been unsuccessful.

Mr.

LAUrMAN said that he nad issued a subpoena for

REVIEWED percherthesgraceury on

April 17, 1958, because l

appearance

had indicated that

and had Inferred

, ON 1/29 97 dal

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

• TUTAL DENIAL

- 14 -

93-2940-3V-5

JEK Law 10(a)2

NW 56792 DocId: 32332889

Page 6

---

## Page 7

JEK Law 10(a)2

PG 92-226

that he could produce

for questioning. Subsequently,

Mr. KAUFMAN advised that he had excused l

_from

appearance. in response to the subpoena on the basis that

was sincere in his statements that he did not

KnOw

whereabouts.

The following individuals are considered current active

associates of JOHN LA ROCCA as developed during investigation

into the background and operations of LA ROCCA:

JOSEPH ROSA

FRANK VALENTI

NICK STIRONE

FRANK AMATO

THOMAS PECORA

SAMUEL MANNARINO

GABRIEL MANNARINO

TONY RIPEPI

DOMINICK ANZALONE

JOE SICA

FRED KOHL

JACK CANCELLIERI

Investigation has revealed that all of the above have been

active leaders in some type of illegal operation at one time

or another in the Pittsburgh area.

Brief descriptive data relating to the criminal or hoodlum

background of each of the above individuals. 1s as follows:

According to T-3, who requested his identity remain confidential

and who stated he will not testify at any future Federal or

state proceedings, JOSEPH ROSA. was a very powerful, but silent,

figure in the gambling and racket element in Western Pennsyl-

vania.

ROSA has been Investigated under the Top Hoodlum

Program, of the Pittsburgh Division.

FRANK VALENTI -- According to his FBI identification record,

FRANK VALENTI has been arrested at least thirteen times on

charges of murder, gambling; breaking and entering, robbery,

etc. VALENTI was one of the individuals present at the

November 14, 1957, Apalachin meeting:

M.Y

- 15 -

'99-2940-31

,0a)2

HH

56792 DooId:32332889 Page 7

---

## Page 8

PG 92-226

in any 1llegal activities but was devoting all of his

finances and time in legitimate business enterprises.

DOMINICK ANZALONE - On September 11, 1957, Chief County

Detective JAMES EADIE, Fayette County, Uniontown, Pa.

advised that DOMINICK' ANZALONE was a power among gamblers

and racketeers in Western Pennsylvania, particularly in

Fayette County.

JOE/SICA -- SICA is the son-in-law of JOSEPH ROSA. SICA

was indicted by federal Grand Jury In Pittsburgh,

May 6, 1948, on conspiracy to violate the Selective

Pa., on

Service Act of

1940 but this indictment was nolle-prossed.

SICA has been reported as active in the operations of

numbers

"book"

in the Turtle Creek Valley area of Western

Pennsylvania.

FRED KOHL -- Lieutenant THOMAS WEBER, Union Railroad

Security Police, Homestead, Pa.,

advised SA JAMES I. FELSKI

on March 19, 1957, that FRED KOHL, co-owner of the Ankara,

a supper club, near Pittsburgh, Pa., was active in the.

numbers racket in Swissvale, Pa., area.

JACK CANCELLIERI - Pittsburgh Police officers familiar

gambling operations in the general Pittsburgh area

advised that

JACK CANCELLIERI was a well-known numbers writer

on the North Side section of Pittsburgh.

In addition to the above,described individuals, others with

whom LA ROCCA is closely associated are individuals such as

JOHN J. SCARDINA who, according to CHARLES RAY LA CAMERA, a

self-admitted numbers writer of Farrell, Pa., was the big

numbers operator in the Sharon-Farrell,

Pa., area. LA CAMERA

advised on July 1, 1957, that all numbers writers

work. for

SCARDINA in the Sharon-Farrell area.

MICHAEL GENOVESE -- On February 27, 1958, GEORGE MESSER,

self-admitted Pittsburgh numbers writer,

advised SA ROBERT A.

VOEGE that TONY RIPEPI and FRANK VALENTI were Important

racket men in Pittsburgh; however, RIPEPI was above VALENTI.

He said that JOHN LA ROCCA seemed to be the key man in the

Pittsburgh area and added that he would place LA ROCCA and

GABRIEL MANNARINO as the two men who control the racket

PAi

- 17 -

:: 105-10139

HH

56792 DooId: 32332889 Page 8

---

## Page 9

PG 92-226

T-6.

said that in the LA ROCCA

residence seven murders were

committed within the period of a few

years and that no one

was

ever prosecuted for any of these murders. Informant

said that in 1922 JOHN LA ROCCA attempted to kill TERESA

TRONZO and then after this attack the families of TRONZO

and LA ROCCA were constantly at odds and that they all

I-6 said that the LA ROCCA family had

threatened to kidnap TERESA TRONZO and place her in a

house of prostitution unless the charges against LA ROCCA

were

dropped. (This offense has been previously reported

under the caption

"Criminal

Record.")

Office, Pittsburgh, advised SA

information that JOHN LA ROCCA's liaison with the Superin-

tendent of Police in Pittsburgh was through one GEORGE

MESSER. (MESSER admittedly has been a partner to LA ROCCA

in the numbers business in the East Liberty section of :

Pittsburgh.)

On August 21, 1946, MESSER advised that he felt that an

attempt on his life was brought about by JOHN LA ROCCA and

that LA ROCCA's attempt to squeeze him out of business was

the purpose for this attempt.

MESSER said that LA ROCCA

had exclusive numbers rights

In the Eighth Ward and also

rights in part of the Thirteenth Ward of Pittsburgh.

On December 13, 1957, T-7, a representative of another

Government agency, advised that one MIKE GABLE and FRANK

VALENTI and AL LADISH, now deceased,

illegally entered the

residence of an individual ana stole from the premises a

•45 caliber automatic pistol. T-Y stated that this allegedly

occurred in 1942, 1943 or 1944.

This source said that FRANK

VALENTI left this gun with JOHN LA ROCCA for safekeeping

and that at a later date this same gun was used to kill one

T-7 said that his source claimed that FRANK

VALENTI had told many times that no act could be committed

without the permission of JOHN LA ROCCA and that because of

this the source felt that LA ROCCA had knowledge of, and

concurred with, the murder of GUS GIANNI.

T-7 further advised that CARLA FERRARI, who was a paramour

of FRANK VALENTI at the time of the FREDDIE GARROW and

REVIEWED BY SIFK TASK FORCE

REVIEWED BY JFK TASK FORCE

ON

4/10/98 d60

ON

9/29127 d08

E NELSASE IN FULL

#. RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

- 19 -

D RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

O TOTAL DEMAN CO

HH

56792 DocId: 32332889 Page 9

---

## Page 10

PG 92-226

exist any longer because they have all been confiscated by

the Pennsylvania State Police during their various raids.

On February 27, 1958, GEORGE MESSER advised SA VOEGE that

he had been in

the numbers writing activity since about

1928 and is still active in this regard.

He said that most

of Pittsburgh's present day big racket men"

once depended

on him solely for protection purposes since he knew local

and state police figures and recalled that JOHN LA ROCCA

was one of these racketeers.. MESSER

became acquainted with him in about 1941 er 1942 when cA

LA ROCCA was handling all the numbers activity in the East

Liberty section of Pittsburgh and had set himself up as a

"Iittle God.

When LA ROCCA became dissatisfied with his

financial gains, he left Pittsburgh on a trip to Chicago

to see friends about paste reel machines with which he felt

he could make

more money. MeSSER said a paste reed was

similar to a "one-armed

bandit" with the exception that a

small paper-wrapped mint was dispensed after the coin was

placed in the slot and the play was registered.

The

chicago manufacturer of this machine circumventee the

"strictly for gambling purposes"

phraseology in the law in

this manner.

While LA ROCCA was in Chicago, MESSER said he moved into the

East Liberty section and took over the entire numbers l

operation.

He turned in his numbers returns to one GEORGE

CHRISTY (now deceased) In Pittsburgh.

When LA ROCCA returned

to Pittsburgh he became angry with MESSER and his move and

had someone drive a car over MESSER one night as he was

crossing a street.

MESSER said when he was discharged from

the hospital he found out that his automobile had numerous

bullet holes in it. MESSER said that because he thought

he would make money in the East Liberty section he stayed

In the business

of writing numbers and actually forced

LA ROCCA out of the numbers business.

MESSER advised that In about 1943 he and LA ROCCA became

friendly and LA ROCCA invited him to share equally in the

ownership of the Coin Machine Distributing Company which

later set up offices at 5746 Baum. Boulevard in Pittsburgh.

MESSER recalled that LA ROCCA was completely bankrupt at

that time because of numbers

setbacks but managed to raise

- 24 -

deler-10.1n

HH

56792 DooId:32332889 Page 10

---

## Page 11

PG 92-226

enough money to put up his share.

YESSER said he personally

travelled to Chicago to arrange for the purchase of machines

to be distributed by this company and had a verbal agree-

ment with ART ROONEY who allowed him to place these machines

throughout the East Liberty, Homewood and Garfield sections

of Pittsburgh where ROONEY was not operating.

According

to MESSER, ROONEY, who is the present owner of the Pitts-

burgh Steelers professional football club, was the only man

who could get paste reels before LA ROCCA

tried, and controlled

MESSER said

that the government placed a $100 tax stamp on each machine

and the City of Pittsburgh put a $50 tax stamp on each machine.

He said that other owners of the company, in addition to

himself and LA ROCCA, were FRANK AMATO, BARNEY MCGINLEY,

SAMUEL MANNARINO and F. W. ZOGG, the latter from Chicago.

(d) Illicit Alcohol

on August 31, 1953, LA ROCCA, while testifying at an INS

hearing in his own

behalf, stated that he had been "mixed up"

in bootlegging, numbers racket, and slot machines, and that

in his earlier

days he had worked as an Indiana County, Pa.,

coal miner.

LA ROCCA stated that he was then engaged only

in legitimate enterprises.

E. LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES

On October 10, 1955, JOHN LA ROCCA was interviewed at his

place of business on Craig Street by SA JOHN S. PORTELLA.

LA ROCCA stated that since his trouble with the Internal

Revenue Service and the INS, his business in the past three

years had dropped so much that he had his business and

property up for sale. LA ROCCA stated that he has been

patient and cooperative with all government agencies and

has been investigated and reinvestigated on numerous occasions

and cannot understand why the government will not leave him

alone.

LA ROCCA stated his true name is SEBASTIAN JOHN

LA ROCCA and that he never liked the name SEBASTIAN and

consequently has been called JOHN for many years. LA ROCCA

stated that after he sells his business on Craig Street

he will continue to operate the North Star Cement Block

Company.

- 25. -

56792 DooId: 32332889

Page 11

---

## Page 12

PG 92-226

the perjury. trial in Federal Court, Pittsburgh.

The subject

had maintained that he had no connection with

this business

as of February 19, 1948, when this business was raided by

the Allegheny County Detective Bureau and thirty-eight slot

machines were confiscated.

Duquesne, made a sworn

partner at the time of the raid.

A search of the records of the Prothonotary's Office falled

to reveal any record of the Bulk Beverage Company which

LA ROCCA had alleged that he owns.

HAROLD W. LAUVER,

INS, Investigator, advised on December 16,

1957, that he had made a search of the prothonotary's records

at Fayette County, Pa., and had not been able to locate any

record concerning

the Fayette Novelty Company nor the Rock-

O-La Corporation which have been allegedly owned in the

past by the subject.

A news item

burgh Press"Cated November 10, 1954, appearing in the "Pitte

reflects that JOHN LA ROCCA testified before

the Immigration Hearing Board that his net worth is $258,500

and that he has had no income from gambling or other illegal

sources in the past ten years.

With regard to the North Star Cement Block Company, it 1s

pointed out that on December 10, 1957, T-O, a representativ

I another government agency, advised that

advised that

JFK Law 11(a)

T-8 said that

JFK Law 11(a)

Regarding the Standard Dryer Distributing Company, It 1s

pointed out that prothonotary records, under fictitious

names registration, Volume 133, page

42, Certificate No.

42307, list the United Hand Dryer Distributing Company,

The character of this

business was to buy, sell and distribute mechanical hand

dryers, and the interested partners were JOHN S. LA ROCCA.

The date the certificate was issued May 12, 1954.

- 31 -

7713940-31 14)

NW 56792 DooId:32332889 Page 12

---

## Page 13

PG 92-226

LA ROCCA advised at the time of his deportation hearing

that after the termination of the Standard Dryer Distributing

Company, prothonorary records, fictitious name registration,

Volume 120, page 19, Certificate No. 38182, he formed the

United Hand Dryer Distributing Company.

Heretofore these

records could not be found in the Allegheny County Pro-

thonotary's Office.

It is noted that the registration card No. B-56740 of the

Arlington Hotel, Binghamton, N. Y., dated November 14, 1957,

listed JOHN S. LA ROCCA, Coin Machine Distributing Company,

500 North Craig Street, PIttsburgh.

On March 4, 1958, I-9, whose records are available through

the issuance of a subpoena duces tecum, advised that his

records show that on November 9, 1956,

his records show

that $45,000 was loaned to JOHN LA ROCCA and his wife,

MARY S. LA ROCCA.

It was noted that $1,000 was paid on

this loan on January 7, 1957, and that $500 payments were

e95, and

made each month thereafter until January 30, 1958, with

the exception of September, when two $500 payments were

made during that month.

It was noted that there was still a $37,500 balance re-

maining on this loan as of March 4, 195o, and that this

was apparently the second loan made to LA ROCCA.

No notation was noted

which would indicate the purpose

of this $45,000 loan.

In April, 1958, T-10 advised that

JFK Law 11(a)

T-10 advised that

- 32 -

d..... 9294031

1,(a)

IN 56792 DocId:32332889 Page 13

---

## Page 14

PG 92-226

JEK Law 11(a)

F. TRAVEL

On January 27, 1958, Mrs. CLOVER GIBSON, Secretary, and Miss

LORENA SANDERS, Clerk, Velda Rose Motel, Hot Springs, made

records available to sA ROBERt E. HICKMAN, which revealed that

JOHN S. LA ROCCA, 500 North Craig Street,

Pittsburgh, registered

in the Velda Rose Motel on October 22, 1957, with one JOHN

SCARDINO (address

not given) and departed on November 8, 1957.

The records revealed that the subject and SCARDINO resided

in Rooms 118 and 99.

According to Miss SANDERS, the subject

seemingly was in Hot Springs to take the baths and to her

recollection had no visitors in his room.

Miss SANDERS

advised that she did not know what places the subject

frequented while visiting In Hot Springs nor did she know

any individuals he contacted while in Hot Springs. Miss

SANDERS pointed out that the motel did not maintain telephone

numbers of local calls their guests make.

On January 2i, 1958, Mr. AUSTIN PITIVAN, Assistant Manager,

Arlington Hotel, Hot Springs, advised that a review of his

records from 1954 to present revealed no information regarding

the subject.

On February 3, 1958, Assistant U. S. Attorney STEPHEN E.

KAUFMAN, Southern District of New York, New York, made avail-

able to SAA JOHN J. RYAN a photostatiof registration car

No. B50740 of the Arlington Hotel, Binghamton, N. y..

stamped on its reverse side 8:58

The registrant JOHN S. LA ROCCA (and dove ber sa, die:

Coin Distributing Company, 500 N. Craig, Pittsburgh, Pa.,

-33 -

999940-331

11G)

HH

56792 DooId:32332889

Page 14

---

## Page 15

PG 92-226

occupied Rooms 052, 854, and 856,

at what appears to be

$10 rate. Under

the remarks section 1s writter

charged to

Onon Canada Dry."

to be

"CB.

The initials of the clerk on duty appear

Mr. KAUFMAN volunteered that Inspector DENMAN,

New York State Police, Sidney, New York, had turned over

the photostat to him on a recent trip KAUFMAN had made to.

that area.

G. PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION

SEBASTIAN

Through observation, Interview, and investigation, JOHN

ADA ROCCA is described as follows:

Race

Sex

Date of birth.

Place of birth

Height

Weight

Hair

Complexion

Eyes

Present Address

Past Address

Marital Status

Wife

Date of birth

Place of birth

Date of

marriage

Son

Date of birth

Adopted

White

Male

December 1921901

Villa Rosa, Caltanesetta,

sicily. Italy

5'T0"

200 lbs.

Black, graying

Dark

Brown

900 West Ingomar Road

Ingomar,

Pa.

6426 Apple Street

Pittsburgh, Pa.

Married

MARY S. LA ROCCA

April 2, 1910

Jessup, Pa.

September 30, 1928,

Pittston, Pa.

JOHN LA ROCCA

October 1, 1943

TN HOWEARD LESLIE HOFFMAN

February 25, 1944

at Greensburg, Pa.,

through Westmoreland Orphans

Court

N.'

- 34-

HH 56792 DocId: 32332889

Page 15

---

## Page 16

PG 92-226

Name

Gleason,

A1

Hoffman, Howard Leslie

Jenkins, Eaward

Kaufman, Stephen E.

Knight, John (Judge)

Kohl, Fred

I and G Amusement Co.

La Camera, Charles Ray

Ladish, Al

La Rocca, John (son)

La Rocca, John L.

La Rocca, Mary S.

La Rocca Real Estate Co.

Lauver, Harold W.

La Valli, John --

Lederer,

Evelyn

Lisanti, George

Long, Morris Benjamin

Machine Novelty Co.

Mack, James W.

Mafia

Magill,

Frank W.

Mazza, Jack

McGinley, Barney

Mannarino, Gabriel

Mannarino,

Samuel

Margiotti, Charles J.

Markus, Fred C.

Marsh,

Rabe F.

Marshall, Thomas H.

McGinley, Barney I.

Medico, Angelo

Medico, Charles

Medico, Industries, Inc.

Medico, Samuel

Medico, William

Messer, George

Micale, John

Mills Distributing Co.

North Star Cement Block Co.

Oliver, A. M. (Attorney). --

Onon Canada Dry

Pasco, Alfred K.

- 38 -

56792 DooId: 32332889 Page 16

13,14,15,33,

10

15,17

26,29

r. g

20, 26

13

21

25

15,16,17

15,16,18,23325,27,28

1, 32

30

8,23

30

14

13,14

14

14

-- 17,19,24,25,28

22,23

28

25,26,27,31,32,33

34

5

сороа-інн

---

