JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10302-10034
RECORD SERIES: HQ ‘
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —29-31889-216
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, CG
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATU

DATE OF LAST REVIEW ;

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

O1/17/1964
6

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

05/16/1998

INDEFINITE

INC LHM

v9

DocId:32310090 Page 1

55


vip-36 (Rev. 12-13-56) j i}

|

T
t
I
|
1
t = ‘ge
on ic PBI 5
\
of ; Date: 1/17/64
Transmit the following in . |
(Type in plain text or code)
Vi AIRTEL l
ia “Te
(Priority or Method of Mailing) H
eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee tee eee eee eee eseseseeeaeaeeesea
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (29-31889)
FROM : SAC, CHICAGO (29-1999) (P)

SUBJECT: JAMES RIDDLICHOFFA;
DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE, aka.;

ee ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

; Co HEREIN JS URCLASSIFIED

-00:' DETROIT pueda ipr Sie. ane xe)

(JF)
A : ’

! aA Enclosed for the Bureau, Detroit and Memphis are 4,
2 and, 2 copies respectively of a LHM containing a transcript

of a tape made by an Edwards pocket recorder worn by ROBERT

C. MEISSNER during his meeting with JOSEPH VERHELLE in Detroit

on 1/10/64, The recorder apparently did not operate properly

as it varied in speed and also much of the conversation was

inaudible. hs,

i it ae
‘ Detroit and Memphis should disseminate a copy of 4
the enclosed LHM to WILLIAM FRENCH and WALTER J, SHERIDAN
respectively.

| For the information of Detroit and Memphis, Chicago

has obtained another Edwards pocket recorder from the Cleveland
Office which will be used in the event of future meetings
between MEISSNER and VERHELLE.

iS The original and 2 dub tapes are being forwarded by
2 separate cover to the Bureau with the request that the Bureau
attempt to bring out the inaudible portions of the tape on

/ Bureau equipment.

Be Bureatt ‘@ncis:, 4) ‘ bod nerd racial

2 - Detroit (29-1432) (Encls, 2

2 - Memphis (72-43) (Encls. 2)

1 = Chicago He be #Criminal_Division
ED.

"iB? BP Y/ ‘Sheridan ei
ic Rial Aseat,j Bone Seg. Pepe 2 8 Liter, A

Be S-es ERA Cac

ENC

297

Approved:

DocId:32310090 Page 2


Oo ; at aieeee

TE —
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
Chicago, Illinois

ial Cite oied January 17, 1964

File No.

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;
DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE;
ET AL

The following is the transcription of a tape made
by an Edwards binaural pocket tape recorder worn by Robert
C. Meissner during his meeting with Joseph Verhelle in Detroit,
Michigan, on January 10, 1964:

"This is Special Agent William F, Hood, Federal
Bureau of Investigation, Chicago, Illinois. I have just
installed a tape recording device on the person of Mr, Robert
C. Meissner at his residence in Hinsdale, Illinois, and this
date January 10, 1964, at approximately 6:30 A.M.
Long inaudible conversation

« « « « that $200,000 a year is a hell of a lot of money to pay
out for

(V) I have an attorney who is probably the best attorney in town.

(V) I sent him a letter i
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED 4

Inaudible conversation ee) S v7 a ELI .

(M) That's a wonderful bank ng
Did they do a favor for somebody or something
Long inaudible conversation
(V) It can only happen in Detroit
More inaudible conversation
I don't have that kind of money .

More inaudible conversation

DocId:32310090 Page 3



oe te O H a) eeeaee

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA; fl

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE;

ET AL

(Mt) a » « Do they have that kind of money . .

(V) . . They don't have that kind of money...
Inaudible

(M) As a director you're liable...
Inaudible

(mM) In other words by giving them this letter

(M) You're putting them on notice...

.(V) Wetre putting them on notice , ..
Inaudible

(M) I just wondered . . . you know if

(Vv) . . . Sully Sherone our attorney,
he told me that he had seen Jimmy of course they were
on this negotiation and he is the one who told me
about . . . that they're moving down to Chattanooga and...
from the work we've done in that state, knowing that state
eo « « I don't see how he's gonna get a fix in there. I
just don't know, This is the toughest one he's ever had.
Inaudible

(Vv) . . . Jimmy's head attorney

(Vv). . That's the fellow from town here.

(M) Oh, he's from Detroit ...

Inaudible

(Vv) . . . » and he had just come back . : this was before they got

the move . , they're all scared to death :

Inaud ible

DocId:32310090 Page 4



JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;
DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE ;
ET AL

(mM) Well, I'm not sure that that isn't actually gonna be the route
cause,.. , working as we did . . . that's a practical state. ..
and on the other hand I've never seen, you know you talk about
clannishness up in New Hampshire or the clannishness out on
say North Shore in Chicago. Those people are all related to
each other and unless you're in, you're out, Now that would
be true. . they wouldn't like Jimmy but they're not gonna like
Bobby either.

(M) One thing that concerns me though is when we talked in Washington
. and talked about the possibility of Chicago and so on...
(mM) I can't see how it's gonna do one darn bit of good to have the
fix in Chicago. If he gets convicted in Tennessee, because
- from Tennessee it.comes to Chicago and with a recent felon,
he's had it. No matter how much your Judge might help...
because under those circumstances . . , it's just too soon, .

Inaudible

() . . .'At least we can keep track of it in Chicago because
we'll be in a position to help . , . . apparently they're just
not sure that the one down South is right on the line . ,

Inaudible
(V) I don't think it's helped him a lot to get it moved.

(M) Well, I think as a matter of bbacde it's probably hurt because Pera)
little town...

(mM) Sort ‘of a home town thing where everybody knows everybody and
. there is certainly no industry there compared to Nashville ...
law of’ averages get friendlier ...

Inaudible
(M) . . . and anybody that's on the bench down there is gonna listen . .
. . which is from that point of view a practical thing but it bothers

me cause he's gotta come out of Tennessee without a,conviction
otherwise when he comes to Chicago .. .

-3-

DocId:32310090 Page 5



eee a es

ea

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;
DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE ;
ET AL

Inaudible.

(M) I think that it could be done, I really do . , ah. , and it
. . can'be done fast but . ah . . if they're gonna move, they
gotta move and move fast,

« « true...

(V) It can't be done by Jimmy, it's got to be done by somebody ...
QD) else that's in an entirely different industry, you as a banker
or somebody like myself as an engineer ...

(M) I agree absolutely . . . it better be somebody .. that can
. » »« Other reason to be talking to these people . , have
nothing to do with the situation down in Chattanooga at all but
« « ah , . I think it can be done but it costs money.

(V) Like, any idea?

(M) Well, I would just guess, I would think that . . ah . . to
delude the top guy would cost a quarter of a million bucks.
Maybe even half a million. Campaign contributions I don't
think they're interested in, I think they'd be interested in
real money. Maybe .. . on a COD basis, that way you know
somebody doesn't get paid before they get .. . ah . cause

they work on the honor system down there anyway, they always
have . . but that the only way .., , the reason I know is that
even though we have this bankruptcy in... all kinds of
interstate highway stuff and you have to be qualified...
qualified . ..so . . and they just sit down and say well
okay ... they're looking for cash . . you're in the country
or out of it, they don't care but that's it, No hitches, no
problems,

Inaudible
(M) You think you can get them to come up with that money ...
(M) Did you ever talk to Jimmy about this

-4- \

DocId:32310090 Page 6



JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;
DOMINICK EDWARD _BARTONE ;
ET AL

Inaudible :
(M) You didn't tell him ah who...
(V) I didn't tell anything...
ap As to who Iam...

Inaudible...

. . . that makes sense . . °

Inaudible...

Is that right...

Well, I suppose SO. ae

Long inaudible conversation

The tape recorder was concealed on Meissner's person
by Special Agent William F. Hood prior to Meissner flying to
Detroit and was removed immediately upon his return to O'Hare
International Airport where he was met by Special Agents William
F, Hood and Gale T, Johnson at approximately 2:40 P.M., CST,
January 10, 1964,.. Upon removal of the recorder, it was noted
that the supply reel of the recorder had been completely emptied.

The prefix (M), for Meissner, and (V), for Verhelle,
were used to identify.the person speaking wherever identificatio
was possible.

This document contains neither recommendations nor
conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, It is the
property of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed
outside your agency.

-5-

DocId:32310090 Page 7
