# docid-32144431

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10073-10468

RECORD_SERIES: BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-4467-125

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

THILL. EDWARD J.

TO:

SAC

TITLE:

DATE: 04/09/1965

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT:

WC, RPT, REACTION, POWELL, ELWIN H.

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

09/03/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

06/08/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32144431

Page 1

---

## Page 2

7, 1.

United States Government

MEMORANDUM

TO :

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SAC (100-11606) .

•SA EDWARD J. THILL

COMINFIL STATE UNIVERSITY

OF NEV. YORK AT BUFFALO

+3

÷: C

DATE:

4/9/65

Re Buffalo let to Bureau, dated 3/18/65, captioned

"WORLDWIDE PUBLISHERS LIMITED (PROGRESSIVE BOOKS), COMMUNST

ACTIVITIES WITHIN TORONTO, ONTARIO, INFORMATION CONCERNING, "

(subversive control and letterhead memorandum which was attached

(classified secret: (Buffalo file 100-10044). It-is noted that

the key information in the solution of that case was provided by

ROBERT DOUGLAS RUTH (protect identity - requested), a student at

the State University of New York at Buffalo (SUNYAB).

The afore-

mentioned file contains photographs of MARK C.. KENNEDY and RICHARD

SALTER, who are mentioned subsequently in this memorandum.

The following information comprises a partial compellation

of data furnished by ROBERT DOUGLAS RUTH to the writer:

On 3/5/65, RUTH advised that several days previously,

Dr: ELWIN H. POWELL, while teaching his class at SUNYAB

"Sociology of War and Peace," which POWELL nicknamed "Sociology

of Violence," Sociology Club No. 376, stated to the class that

the "Warren

Report" is a cover-up for the assassination of former

]

134-1108A

100-New Dead

MARK C. KENNEDY)

100-New Dead

(RICHARD WALTER

100-17559

ELWIN POWELL)

100-18390 (MARK LANE)

100-18559

MANUEL RODRIGUEZ

=157-298 (STUDENT DEMONSTRATION,

-U.S. COURI HOUSE, 3/10/65)

100-16691 (WWP)

=

100-6516

(SWP.)

100-17733 (PLM)

÷ 14-89 (MAY 2ND MOVEMENT)

1)- 105-4467 (LEE HARVEY OSWALD)

EJT : paj

( 13)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ERDINAS UNOLASSIFIE

DATE.

25/92 BY 9803rdd/ccl

re: JFK

105-4467-135

'Searched.

ndexed..

'Serialize

FIled.

APR 9

1965-

FBI

BUFFALO

DocId: 32141431 Page 2

---

## Page 3

BU 100-11606

on 3/10/65, RUTH furnished information regarding the

student demonstration planned for later that day at the U. S.

court house, Buffalo, the purpose of which was to protest the

treatment of Negroes in Selma, Alabama.

RUTH advised that there

was no public advertising regarding the demonstration, but the

information was being passed by word of mouth. One student

remarked that he had already made up fifty posters for the

demonstration.

Shortly after 12:00 noon, on 3/10/65, RUTH

advised teiephonically that five SUNYAB students left the

rathskeller of Norton Union with placards destined for the

U.S. Court House.

On 3/11/65, RUTH stated that during the morning he

visited the student

book shop located on Main Street

SUNYAB. He found on sale there

but no copies of "progressive Laborkers world" and "Miritant, m

male employee in the

book shop in response to RUTH's question, said he knew of no

newspaper named "Free Student" (This is the organ of the May 2nd

Movement) •

RECOMMENDATION

In light of the accumulating unfavorable information

regarding MARK C. KENNEDY and RICHARD SALTER, it is recommended

that 100-New Dead cases be opened on each one of them.

DocId: 32144431

Page

3

---

