JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/3/2015

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.l
DocId:32302393 Page 1

Agency Information

FBI
124-10281-10113

HQ

CR 62-9-12-538

Document Information

FBI
SAC, DL
DIRECTOR, FBI

12/28/1964 -
5 a

JEST, CIP, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, RES, TRA, SUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

02/10/1999

INDEFINITE,



.FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56) \
‘, a Oo i

0 — Oo |

FBI H

2 |

‘: es Date: 12/28/64

t !
Transmit the following in Toa i plain Wt Cole}
Via AIRTEL |
'

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12) a
-

SAC, DALLAS, (94-55A~SUB)

WEEKLY SUMMARY F fs

DALLAS DIVISION

: Re Dallas airtel to Bureau dated 12/21/64,
RE: JAMES HENRY DOLAN aka
’ AR
(DL 92-292) (DL 166-154)

The Las Vegas Division advised that DOLAN was arrested
by the Reno, Nevada PD on 12/14/64, on a Sedgwick County, Kansas,
warrant with bond being set at $5,000. At the time of arrest
DOLAN had $1,280. 90-20 cash.on his person and bond was immediatel
posted by Mrs. IK#{COLVIN of the Ike Colvin Bonding Company,
Reno, Nevada.

DOLAN was very <uncooperative and did not discuss
anything with police officers, claiming that his arrest was
based on a."bum rap and they tried to dp the same thing to me.
in Texas.” Located in DOLAN's. posse on was a bill of sale
dated 12/9/64, indicating one JI IMBERLY, Route_1,..Vinton,

Louisiana, purchased a 1965 Ford, two door Custom 500 from
Donaldson Ford Company, Sulphur, Lamisiana.

C3)Bureau sbianaiy 53h
Crab ; lo 2-9 |D: 2
1=92-292 h
1-137-1110 REC- 34
1-162-1 &
1-162~-37
1-166-102
1-166-154 + -
1-162-New .
1-94-55A-SUB . seldecoests
HEC tia

D

IDL/eps ee
(12)
N

ae - :
) BUENTE 186 S.cca Agent in Charge st f " Per
ae . : Ic € (ee

DocId:32302393 Page 2


i

0 | 6
DL 94-55A-SUB

On 12/17/64, Mrs, IKE COLVIN, PCI of the Las Vegas
Division, advised that DOLAN was referred to her by his attorney,
LORIN D. PARRAGUIRRE, Mrs. COLVIN stated that from the attorney's
general manner, it was obvious he was very friendly with DOLAN,
or more so than an attorney is with the normal client. In
information furnished to the bonding company, DOLAN furnished a
fictitious address in Reno, Nevada and also gave a fictitious
home address indicating that he was previously from Cedar ‘Rapids,
Iowa.

The above information was furnished to Detective H. M.
HART, CIS, Dallas PD and to Deputy Sheriff BOB MORGAN, Dallas
County so; on 12/28/64,

RE; GAMBLING ACTIVITIES
DALLAS DIVISION
(DL_162-1)

On 12/23/64, DL 181-C-TE, advised that Mrs. JERR’ ROSENBERG ,
widow of the late JERRY ROSENBERG, has evidently taken over
his job with the Flamingo Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada, in that she
has arranged for a chartered flight to leave Dallas, Texas.
approximately January 8, 1965, for Las Vegas, Nevada. “Informant
related that the hotel invites different individuals from the
Dallas area to be their guest at the hotel for several days and
that their airplane fare is paid for by the hotel, as well as
their lodging at the Flamingo Hotel.

The above information was furnished to Detective H, M._
HART, CIS, Dallas PD and to Deputy Sheriff BOB MORGAN, Dallas
County so? on 12/28/64.

Revenue Service, Dallas, advised that_W. E ES, 1115 Ellenwood,
Dallas, Texas, had purchased an Occupational Wagéring Stamp im ~
Oklahoma Stating that he would have exclusive rights to wagering
at the Hugo, Oklahoma game fights which are scheduled to be

held in that area.

On 12/24/64, ED HASKINS, ct EABAtES, 1118" Internal

DAWES is a known gambler and bootlegger who has operated
in the Dallas area for years. The Dallas PD received information
in 1962 that. DAWES had arranged for a chicken fight somewhere in
South Dallas and after the spectators had arrived at the location,

ERS
Nel BY BRHF TASK a -2-

on 2 G/2b/9 4 chad aa
Ate
o
0) TOTAL DENIAL

a ART

DocId:32302393 Page 3


o - 6

DAWES held: up the spectators taking their money. According to
PD records, no complaint was filed by any of the participants in
that they were also in actual violation of the law attending
such a sporting event and wagering on the fights.

DL 94-55A-SUB

The above information was furnished to Detective H.. M.
- HART, CIS, Dallas PD and Deputy Sheriff BOB MORGAN, Dallas County
SO on 12/28/64.

RE: RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS aka
ITAR - GAMBLING
(DL_ 166-102)

On 12/23/64, DL 181-C-TE advised he had recently talked
with MATTHEWS and learned from MATTHEWS that MATTHEWS is
presently residing in Euless, Texas. Informant related MATTHEWS
indicated that he was living’ approximately three blocks back
behind Buddies Supermarket which is located near Highway 183,
MATTHEWS indicated te informant that he has not been traveling
lately and has spent most of his time gambling at the Redman's
Club located at 1606 Young Street, Dallas. Informat stated that
MATTHEWS continues to drive his 1964 light blue Oldsmobile.

IGA
(DL_162-New)

On 12/23/64, DL 181-C.TE advised he had learned that
an individual using the name JI OLAND is presently taking
bets on Dallas telephone number DAvis 7-1159. Informant stated

he was unaware of the individual's identitynor is he acquainted
with any of his bettors.

Records of the Southwestern Bell Telephone Company reveal
that telephone number DAvis 7-1159 is listed to a F, WHE FREER,
Apartment 104, 1041 Knob Oak, Dallas. isan

tn Sea

RE; UNSUB aka Jim Dooland
|
|
|

Checks with the Dallas PD, Dallas County SO and the
a Retail Merchants Credit Association were negative concerning the
mames F, W,.GREER and JIM DOOLAND,

The above information was furnished to Detective H. M.
HART, CIS, Dallas PD and Deputy Sheriff BOB MORGAN, Dallas County
SO, on 12/28/64,

-3-

Was.

DocId:32302393 Page 4
