# docid-32316511

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/25/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10348-10040

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-7751-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NK

TO: HQ.

TITLE:

DATE:

08/03/1964

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

ANTHONY PROVENZANO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32316511

Page

1

6

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rer. 5-3-588

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEWARK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

DANIEL

Dann

POLIDORI, aka.

DATE

8/3/64

REPORT MADE BY

FRANK F. DONNELLY

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/26 - 7/20/64

nmb/

AR

REFERENCE:

Newark letter to New York dated 5/26/64.

- P -

TYPED BY

8

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU

Original and copy of letterhead memorandum character-

izing the informants used in this report.

ADMINISTRATIVE

The following information except where otherwise

noted was furnished by NK 2319-C* on the dates indicated:

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

On 1/30/64 the informant advised that EUGENE CATENA,

a Caporegima in Cosa Nostra, in the New Jersey area, planned

to meet with POLIDORI upon POLIJORI's release from the N.J.

State prison at Irenton, N..., sometime in January, 1964.

CATENA planned to give

POLIDOR! &

$1,000 coming out present

ECIAL AGEN

ICHARC

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

7751/

2

-

Bureau

(Bacs. 2)

USA, Newark

NEW

York

-

Newark (92-1408)

AUC 5 1964

MCT-7,

REG AL

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

68 AUG 2 01964

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Fles

Notations

DocId: 32316511 Page 2

---

## Page 3

92-1408

According to the informant, POLIDORI is doing,

at this

time, about $25,000 in numbers play per weeks.

On 3/31/64 informant stated that POLDORI is having

difficulty in locating the late JAL PACI's shylock accounts

and has obtained to date only $100 in payments.

He is ap*..

parently having some difficulty in locating PACI's records

concerning his accounts.

On 6/1/64 informant advised that POLIDORI had

given up attempting to collect on sAl PACI's shylock accounts

because he had only collected $400 from them.

POLIDORI

told the informant that the accounts either refused to

believe that he was PACi's partner, or told him that they

had Ilnished paying their debts belore Pack died.

POLIDORI told the informant that he was attempt

ing to start a dress and coat manufacturing business to

give himself some legitimate source of income.

The informant added that POLIDORI told him that

'GENE CATENA was his Caporegima in Cosa Nostra and that he,

POLIDORI, was one Of CATENA's most loyal soldiers.

On 6/1/64, the informant continued that POLIDORI

had met with THOMAS EBOLI, supra, and told him of his desire

to meet with LOUIS MANNA and discuss their going into partner-

ship in the numbers business. ISOll gave his permission for

this.

On 6/11/64, the informant stated that SALVAToRe

LO PROTO was angry at POLiDORI and had stated publicly that

he would slap him arouad when he saw him.

LO PROTO was advised

by EBOLI shortly after this that he should reirain from so

doing because EBOLI would consider it a slap in his ow. face.

Informant added that LOUIS MANNA and his partner,

JIMMY

ANAPP, bothor whom belong to EbOLI, now have fifty

per cent of POLIDORI's numbers business.

INFORMANT'S

NK T-1

NK 2327-C

C

COVEr PAGE

DocId: 32316511 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NK 92-1408

NK T-2

NX 2425-C-TE

NK I-3

PCI EUGENE ALBERTI

LEADS

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK.

will attempt to identify

"JOE STUDS"

a Cosa Nostra member from Brooklyn, New Yorks,

and an associate of POLIDORI.

will identify the individuals to whom the

following New York License Plates are registered and furnish

background on them where available:

8 V4950

9 06702

3Y7896

NEWARK

AT NEWARK, NEW JERSEY.

Will maintain contact with

informants concerning PoLDorie activities.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32316511

Page

---

