# docid-32297542

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10219-10318

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2717-1261

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, RO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/17/1964

1

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

* RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/25/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32297542

Page 1

195

---

## Page 2

OF-10

Office Memorwridum •

UNITED, SO

TO

fusion

SUBJECT:

Director, FBI (92-2717)

Legat, Rome

(92-68) (P)

ANGELO BRUNO, aka.

AR

• DATE:

GOVERNMENT

TITL

8/17/64

8214,326

Classine

Declass

ECL

ON 6-29-94

PER G-l Guide

ReRomelet dated 8/3/64.

On 8/11/64 Doctor LEOPOLDO BALDESSARRE, Central

Bureau,:

Criminal Division, Italian National Police, Rome,

Italy,

advised that the stops against the subject continue

in full force.

(54(4)

Concerning the confusion which arose over the

identity of the individual who attempted to enter Italy on

7/31/64 by means of a falsified passport, Doctor BALDESSARRE

advised as follows:

?

The Italian police had exchanged comsunications

with Canadian authorities concerning one. ANGElU

Italian citizen who was being expelled from Canada

SOr

narcotics activity.

The Canadian authorities advised the

Italian police of the date and flight on which BRUNA would

arrive in Italy.

Central Bureau, Criminal Division,

to the airport police in

Milan, Italy.

Airport police in Milan, however, mistakenly

filed this information in the subject's file and so, when

BRUNA arrived

as scheduled and tried to use the falsified

passport of ANtoNio, the airport police reached

the erroneout conclusion

that BRUNA was the subject. (

Doctor BALDESSARRE stated that, as

noted above,

RUNA 1s an Italian citizen and so far as is known has

ad no connections with the United States. Stu

Rome is continuing to maintain close contact with

its sources

IN ORMATION CONTALAM

& UACLACSITIED

ADRZ SHOWN

-

Bureau

(I - Foreign Liaison)

(T - PhiladeLphia 92-444 1520308

(1 - Philadelphia 92-444

1- Legat,

Bonn

(Info) (sent direct)

1 - Rome

(92-68)

JCM/hcs

0-7

(7)

574064

824 64

REC-51 7-2212

I.d

3 AUG 2/11984 /261

DocId: 32297542

Page 2

---

