# docid-32293081-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10210-10357

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-81285-11, 12, 13

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM: SAC, CV

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 10/07/1959

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

REW, EMP, RAND DEVELOPMENT CORP., WHEREABOUTS,

TRA, USSR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 2 A/T, MEMO

v9.1

3

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

s.°

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

FBI

Date: 10/7/59

PLAIN

TEXT

(Type in plain text.or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Mr.

Tolssa.

sir, Belongt.

ME,

Del ach

Mr,

MoGuire

Mr,

Mohr...

Mx,

Mr,

Rosen a

Mr,

Tania.

Mr,

Trother..

Mr, TV.C, Sullivan

Tele, Room..

Mr. Holloman

Miss Gandy

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-81285)

FROM:

SAC, CLEVELAND (205-3792)

ROBERT EDWARD WEBSTER

IS. - R

(00: Cleveland)

ALL INFORMATION CORTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DA 77-9741 01 508 / not

Re Cleveland airtel 10/7/59.

on 10/7/59, Mr. NICHOLAS GRAZIANO, Treasurer, Rana Development

corp, contacted Cleveland Oftice

and advised that they had

in telephonic contact with U.S. Embassy, Moscow, USSR,

this date. Embassy advised them they had received letter from

subject stating he wished to remain in Russia and not return to

the United States.

Subject supposedly working In Leningrad, USSR.

where he will look into the matter concerning subject.

will telephonically contact GRAZIANO approximately middle of

week following 10/9/59 and give him full details concerning

WEBSTER at that time.

GRAZIANO stated he will

advise the

Cleveland Division immediately upon receipt of information

from RAND

Re Cleveland airtel requested permission to interview subject

on his return to the United States.

This request 1s reiterated

herewith in the event subject further changes his mind and does

return to the Unlted States In the near future.

If information

1s received indicating subject wild remain in

USSR for an

additional extended perioa,

Cleveland will make appropriate

recommendations at that time. Eh Iud

REC-. 10

Bureau (1 - 105-17340 (RM

1- New York (105-37687)

(Info) (RM,

+ 105-81285-113

2 - Cleveland (1 - 105-3772)

001 8 S3HT

Belong

JFC/maf

Approved:

EEel

Gilated 8-54

5 OCT B 195

Sent

- M

P

Special Agen

in Charge

---

