# docid-32303671

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10284-10183

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR. 2-1159-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

DOS

FROM:

[Restricted]

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE : [Restricted]

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

EPE, REVOLUTIONARY ACT, MASAGOZA GROUP, B/F INT,

PURCHASE, AIRPLANE, TRA, CARGO, MIL, MX

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32303671 Page 1

20

---

## Page 2

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Clegs ..

Mr. Glavin

Ir. Ladd

copies made

this page alal??

CIA HAS NO

for rovion at TBIlQ by

DECLARSECAMSI

RELEACE OF CIA IN-UHIATION

see Bufle 62-117290

IN THIS DOCUMENE, 2.M

(STREET COURSE COTTE RESE THE STATE DE o

VIA THE STATE, DEPARTMENT Guin

URGENT

Окоча і

UNKNOWN SUBJECTS, NA

REFERENCE OUR CABLEGRAM MAY 17 LASTICS

PROPOSED RENDEZVOUS MASAGOZA GROUP CANCELLED FOLLOWING ARTICLE

IN LOCAL PRESS CONCERNING REVOLUTIONARY PLOT INYOLVING MANUEL

MORA AND CARMEN DURA.

CLAST.

INVESTIGATION REFLECTS MASAGOZA GROUP APPARENTEY PURCHASING

PLANE THROUGH AEREO SERVICIO, SAeMEXICO CITY IN WHICH

ALFREDO MIRANDA OF AMERICAN ARMAMENT CORPORATION,

FOUR WEST

WINTEREST.

OTHER PLANES AND PARTS

BE 5G DETAINED FROM CARION RS FILEY OF AIR FARTS NELES CORPORATION,

MIAMI. A C-46 AND A C-47 0F

THE GROUP LEFT MEXICO CITY MAY 18 WITH.

STATED DESTINATION PINOTEPAI

DAXACA BUT REAL DESTINATION POSSIBLY

GUATEMALA.

CARGO UNKNOWN BUT PLANE ALLEGEDLY OVERLOADED. ANGEL.

Mh'd

CROCHED EY 5668

DECLASSIFY ON: 25

004

OF CERTAIN MEXICAN CUSTOMS OFFICIALS.

VOS. CONSUL ALERTED BUS.

ADVISED CARGO WAS THREE THOUSAND KILOGRAMS AIRPLANE SPARE PARTS.

FOR MEXICAN AIR FORCE.

OCCUPANTS OF PLANE DID NOT DESIRE CONTACT.

WITH CONSUL

H.

2826 NORTHWEST

4726

SLAIR STREET, MIAMI SPRINGS; ENGINEER MARION RONEY

LISTED, ALL TRAVELLING ON TOURIST CARDS.

TRECHUELO WAS

NOMINATE

SUPPOSEDTO CONTACT FINLEY REGARDING THIS CARGO AND BELIEVES THAT

TO CARRY IT ON TO CENTRAL AMERICA.

HE STATES ONE

-VICKERS,

POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH BRUCEXVICKERS KNOWN TO BUREAU, ALSO

ACTIVE WITH FINLEY.

JOHNEIDYARD, AMER ASSUME JOB OF GENERAL

AMERICAN PILOT IN MEXICO CITY, MIE

OPERATIONS MANAGER FOR MASAGOZA GROUP AND RODRIGUEZ ALLEGEDLY

EXHIBITED 20 THOUSAND

ROLLAR CHECK ON PANAMANIAN BANK AS EVIDENCE

OF FINANCIAL ABILITY::

CIA ADVISES A DO 3 WITH MEXICAN REGISTRATIO

XB-FUE ARRIVED SAN JOSE,

REPAINTED WITH COSTA RICAN REGISTRATION TIE 172.

•COSTA RICA, MAY 19 AND WAS IMMEDIATELYLS

BAYO, SPANISH REFUGEE, WITH HIS SON ALBERTOX BAYO JUNLOR,

ASSISTING GROUP AND NOW IN CENTRAL AMERICA.: BAYO JUNIOR ALLEGEDLY

MEMBER OF U.S. AIR FORCE DURING WAR A SUGGEST BUREAU CHECK THIS.

INVESTIGATION

CONTINUING.

02-15%

5-25-49 €)

If the intelligerce contained in the above massage is to bed connaidate,

outside the Bureau

suggested that it be suitably paraphrased in

order to protect

Spic systems C

JUN ??:

26.

DocId: 32303671

Page 2

---

