# docid-32293115-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10210-10391

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-81285-47

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CV

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/18/1960

2

REW, LTR, REL, EXIT VISA, INS, SOURCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

17

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-81285)

DATE: August 18, 1960

SAC, CLEVELAND (105-3792)

SUBJECT:

ROBERT EDWARD WEBSTER

IS - R

(00: CLEVELAND)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATEIEL4-94 BY SOS MIES

JFK

Enclosed for the Bureau are five copies of a letterhead

memorandum concerning the subject.

The source contained in this letterhead memorandum is

NICHOLAS GRAZIANO, a

source of Information of the Cleveland

Division whose identity is concealed at his request.

The letterhead memorandum is classified confidential inasmuch

as the information furnished by GRAZIANO could reasonably

result in the disclosure of this source of continuing value

and jeopardize his future effectiveness.

The information contained in the letterhead memorandúm

is taken from autostatic copies of letters from the subject

to his parents and were furnished by subject's father with

cover letter to Mr. H. JAMES RAND, III.

The autostatic copies

of these documents were furnished

by the source and are

maintained in the Sub A section of subject's file in the

Cleveland Division...

No further investigation 1s being conducted at Cleveland in

this case and this case is being carried in a closed status.

- Bureau (Enc1-5) (RM)

Cleveland (I - 134-597) EX 100,

JFC/pan

(4)

ENCLOSURE,

REE #11 05-34285-47

25 AUG 22 1960

b

5 DAUG Z6

740

in i Start,

REQ. RECO

ATE FORW. AUG 2 5 1951

HOW FORW,

4 5 1 10 0-149 0-146

105-85

UNREC COPY AND COPY.

---

