# docid-32327798

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90066-10039

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-3960-68

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 12/26/1963

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32327798

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

NY 92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE

On September 21, 1963, NY 3661-C advised SA JAMES T

MC SHANE that he had

received information that he NYCPD

had conducted

a raid

on a gambling establishment on staten

Island, N, which was previously reported as being operated by

This information was subsequently verified on

9/23/63.

The aforementioned information is included in the case,.

entitled "RUBIN PAPPERI', aka

JT AL; ITAR-GAMBLING" (Bufile

166-708, NifIle 166-340).

Since this investigation is still

pending

this information is not included in the details of

this report because it may tend to compromise the informant.

On 10/2/53, AL 3050-PC, was shown a photograph of

SALVATORE GRANELLO, and he immediately identified this photograph

as being identical to the individual previously identified by

him as SOLLY BURNS. The informant further advisedthat he

can not furnish any additional infornation concerning

• "Tony".

The informant

further advised that approsimately a week prior

to the interview, JOSY KAUFMAN had beon to JIMMY. BARONE's Inn as

he had brought some costumes for the sirls in the chorus line.

The informant stated that at this time, he Inquired of KaurMaN

as to how BURNS was doine at the resort center he was allegedly

constructing in upstate New York.

According to the

KAUFMAN indicated to him that BURNS was having difficulty setting

money, as he was unable to put up sufficient equity to secure

a loan from the Teamsters Union.

The informant pointed out

that KAUFMAN mentioned Green Lake, New Jersey, as the place

where this resort area was to be built, rather than Green County,

New York.

The informant stated that it was his understanding

that the

subject possibly lived in Green Lake, NJ.

It may be noted that the subject naintains a summer

residence at Greenwood Lake, NY.

The above information is not included in the details

of this report, since it is felt that the disclosure of this

information may tend

to compromise theidentity of this informant.

By conmunication dated October 15, 1963, the Miami

Division

advised that information has been received from the

MAnso de janiero, Brazil, which stated hat SERGIO LuIZ

hat a Writ of

Habeas Corpus filed by

Ctorney had been denied by the Supreme Court

of Brazil.

AZERADO, stated that this means that MOSS must leave f

COVER PAGE

- SECRET

DocId:32327798

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECREN

MY 92-1108

30 days notice. (f

It is noted that MOSS' US passport is at present

invalid and arrangements have been made by the begat,

110 de Janiero, through the us Consulate in N10 de janiero,

whereby the US

Enbassy wial be notified should Moss attempt

to obtain a passport from the British consulate, Rio de Janiero. (A)

ThE added lead been eceive castle to the

subject, from the

Sheriff's Office Public Safety Department,

Miami, Florida.

On October 30, 1963, CSY 23 advised SA THOMAS NOLAN, Jr.,

that there was no record

relative to JOEY KAUFMAN.

Erforts are currently underay to determine from the

NY Telephone

Co., the.

subscribers of the telephone nunbers

set out in the lead

section of perep.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY. T-1

PCI JOSEPH HENRY WALT

NY T-2

NY 204-C

Contacting Arent

SAS PETER C. CLEMENTE

and EUGENE J. HINDES

SA PAUL G. DURKIN

NY T-3

NY: 3461-C

NY T-4

SA JOSEPH FERRISE, IRS.

245 West Houston St.,

NYC

NY T-6

NY 3969-C-T3

SA T. L MARTIN

SA BUGENE J. HINDES

SA JOHN D. SWIFT

COVER PAGE

= C

SECRET

DocId: 32327798 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-1108

LEADS:

MIAMI

SEDREN

116029

against SIDNEY. MOSS

•rom Rio de vamero.

2.

Will determine the

nature of the inquiry

concerning the subject, received by the Identification

Division from the Sheriff's Office Public Safety Department

Miami, Florida.

NEWARK

association.

TARDIFF's automobile was parked outside A Corner of Hawaii

Bar and Restaurant, 458 6th Ave.,

•NYC, on 6!20/53, at which

time

a meeting appeared to be taking place in this

establishment,

severad hours prion to opening time.

NEW YORK

Will continue efforts to locate and interview

JOEY KAUEMAN.

2. Will maintain contact with NY 204-C to ascertain any

further details relative to the swindle which is allegedly

being contemplated by the subject.

Will continue to follow the subject's prosecution

on Income Tax

matters.

Will endeavor to determine the activities at

Billdias Bar (PH) Thompson and Houston Sts.,

NYC.

COVER PAGE

SECRED

DocId: 32327798

Page 4

---

