JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

| AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-90024-10019
, f
RECORD SERIFS: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-3171-1163
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: CG
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 08/05/1963
PAGES: 69
SUBJECTS :
_ SAMGIANCANA
SAMUEL M. GIANCANA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
i CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
; DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 03/10/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: _ INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: — RPT
‘y
v9.1 368

DocId:32323995 Page 1


Title 4g marked changéd’to note. the other aliasen of J. J: BRACKETT,
8 PERNO and SAM RUSSO. The alias of BRACKET was utilised ty

- te during his stay in Hawaii during May. of 1983. The alios
Sz oe 6: eane wae utilized by GIARCANA during his stay in Hawaii *

dune of 1963. The alias of SAM RUSSO was utilized by
Gilkekns daring his trip to the Domimécan Republic in Nay of 1963,

2 REFERENCES! - Report of SA RALPH R. BILL, JR, dated 4/30/63
aT .
v ENCLOSURES

5 _ TO_BUREAU

Enclésed.gor the Bureau: are 2 copie ha lett 2
idemorandun setting forth a characterization: of int

fy (92-3171)_Ginaienss—

‘Chic:
}: Las: 3 (22-308). (Info)
ioe Megan ¢ (92-135) (into)
2- ene (92-170) (Inte) ~ :
USA, Miami)
1- her rk (e273) (info)
3 = Chicago (92-349).

to you by the FBI, dnd neither ft

SiS

DocId:32323995 Page 2


DocId:32323995 Page 3 .

‘gensTudy 78”

NOTATIONS HEREIN ACCOUNT FOR ACCESS AVD-OR DELIVERY OF THIS DOCUMENT TO SENATE
SELECT COMMITTEE (SSCI AN JOR HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE (HSC} ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES,

wore FORM IN WHICH ACCESS AND “OR DELIVERY WAS MADE MAY BE DIFFERENT
THAN AS REMESENTED BY THIS OSUMENT IN THAT CERTAIN EXOIS/ONS

MADE, FOR ASCESS~ DELIVERY FORM, SEE BUFILE

MAY HAJE BEEN
(S) 62116399 (SSCI, 62116464 (HSC).

gsc gu eo 4 748 Hs¢

ACC. re DATE eC. re

Z x. fe

DATE nee

DEL chien DATE

DEL. DATE ne
Misg! BOCUMENTS FURNISHED QS RE MARTIN LUTH:R KING, JR. WERE ALSO FURNISHED
To ESTATE OF KING THROUSH THE DEPT. AS INOICATED BELOW FOR INS’

STANT DOCUMENT, DATE
DENOTING DELIVERY TO DEPT. SEE SUFILE 100-106670 FOR FORM IN WHICH FURNISHED.

ereeennemens TO DEPT.


CG. 92—-349
EEADS

Information copies are. being sent. to those
offices who have an interest in either SAM GIANCANA or in
associates of GIANCANA | set. forth in this report,

~GHICAGO |

- AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 1. Will continue to
follow and report on ‘all activities, pertaining to SAMUEL
‘GIANCANA. ve

2. Will continue to follow . proceedings in the
United: States ‘Court of Appeals “concerning appeal regarding
GTANCANA' s attempt to gain injunction against the PBI.

3. Will maintain liaison with members. of: United
States: Attorney's Organized Crime Division to determine -
possibilities of violation of :perjury statute arising from
‘regent court case pressed by GIANGANA. L_

= cet IVE |

It is noted that the investigative. period for
this report is in excessof 60° days, - however; no report
‘has. been submitted during this period so ;that complete results
of suit filed by GIANGANA could be ineluded in this: report.
It is further pointed out that the Bureau has been kept :
‘advised.on a daily basis of all pertinent activity occurring
in the” GIANGANA investigation. LL.

RUANTS °

Information received tion CG 6486-C*, CG 6632-C*,
cG _6498=PC, and CG 6576-C* has been paraphrased to further
‘protect the“identities of these’ extremely confidential sources, W

Identity. of Informant To Whom. Furnished

CG. T=1: SA CHARLES DONNELLY 5/24; e/is/es
Per Vicor LACROIX COLLINS uw : :

‘ -B-
COVER PAGE

: DocId:32323995 Page 4


CG, 92-349

--To; Whom Furnished.
Migni Division, 5/27/63

. DONNELLY and SA
PAUL “DURK N 8/245 s/is/e3

SA LARRY FAELE ; 5/29/63,
 Miams; Divi ision

C6.7-6
CE BOSE

CG. T=7. .SA MARSHALL &, RUTLAND,
SANDY SMITH 7/1@=16/63.". 0
Chicago: "Sun Times". Reporter ¥ :

CG..T=8. ; SA WILL@AM F _ROEMER JR
- CS SIGS=PC-TE 7/16/63 i beanie

cG.T-9 :

8A.J..STERLING ADAMS
Honolulu Division, 6/18/6

(requested)

-C-
‘COVER - PAGE -

DocId:32323995 Page 5


CG 92-349

Identity of Informant _ ..,2o Whom’ Furnished

CG.T=12- ;

"CE C3aS=ce

Ca .SA MARSHALL By RUTLAND, 7/10/63

im D-
COVER PAGE

DocId: 32323995 Page 6
