# docid-32316336

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/27/201.

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10346-10456

BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-61-823

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: JENKINS

TO :

BU

TITLE:

DATE: 07/17/1963

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

STEVE MAGADDINO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32316336

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SAC (92-197) (P)

7/17/63

SA FRANCIS B. JENONS

VINCENE A• SCRO

AA

Set forth bolow 13 Information furnished by

SU 82-C* enacernlog events which occurred at Buffalo,

He Forks,

.the dates indiceted.

On 6/26/63 CI advised that SCRO had net JERRX

(DOROBIALA) and discussed

thoir various externinating

contracts:

Whon JERRY roised the question as to hou

Attorney AL PACINI was prograssing with the corporation

paper 6a

SCRO contacted PACINI telephonically.

Upon conploting

his call.

sone told JER that PACIll does not nood any

additional papers and that ho had told PACINI to go ahead.

JERRY roninded SCRO that la three months it would be a yours

apparently referring

to tho dote on which the bustness enterprise

vas initiated.

Later on 6/26/63 JAMES V* LA DUCA diseussed with

BCDD problens he was having in the

collection of

verious accounts

SCho pointed out that one custonor owed them$600 and $700

while only owing €300 to the Frontler (Linen Supply Conpany)

ScHo and LA DUCA then had an argument, with LA DUCA

olatning that 1f he does not recelve e raise he wit have to

sell his house.

He pointed out that he has cancelled his Ile

insurance pollotes and had to borrow $1,500 to hely with hauschole

expenses:

LA DUCA conplained of beving

only one pair of shoes

but at the some time expreseed

Interest in

the price of & neu

ho should start dooling soneutate

else to find why his salary 1s

not suitiolent.

17: 92-56 (J• V. LA DUCA, (P)

92-412 donn 102031464)

(G)

• 137.954 TORRE

92-128 (C.e MONTANA) (C)

(P)

92-61 (STEVE

MIGADDINO)

(P)

92-296

(P. NAZARELLI)

92-268

(P+

(p)

• MACADDITO) (C)

(8)

92-61-

823

SEARCHED.

_INDEXED

SERIALIZED.

- 919€

FBI - BUFFALO

DocId: 32316336

Page 2

---

