# docid-32324064

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form-

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90024-10088

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1224

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

09/27/1963

SAM GIANCANA

SAMUEL GIANCANA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TT

v9.1

DocId: 32324064

381

Page 1

---

## Page 2

4=3* (Rev. 4-17-63)

AIRGRAM

DECODED COPY

• CABLEGRAM O RADIO XXXTELETYPE

Mian Tim

21110

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Bonrad

GeLoach

Evans

Gale

Hosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

74.

URGENT

9-27-63

TO DIRECTOR

AA8

FROM. SAC NEW YORK

AND SAC CHICAGO

272055

SUFILE 12EST DE CHICAGO ANTIRACKI

NEW YORK FILE 92-793.

'ANCANA, AKF

POI LOWELL WILLIAMSON TELEPHONICALLY ADVISED SPECIAL

AGENT RICHARD A. ANDERSON FROM CALGARY, CANADA, SEPTEMBER 26,

LAST, THAT DOROTHY MAGUIRE TOLD SISTER PHYLLIS, THAT DOROTHY

IS NOT GOING BACK TO WORK UNTIL PHYLLIS GOT RID OF GIANCANA.

PCI FURTHER REVEALED THAT HE HAD HEARD (APPARENTLY FROM

WIFE DOROTHY MAGUIRE WHO IS IN CONTACT WITH SISTERS),

GIANCANA HAD TOLD CHRISTINE MAGUIRE, WHILE BOTH IN FLORIDA

AND DRINKING, THAT HE, SUBUECT WAS GOING TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY

FOR SIX MONTHS. TO ONE

YEAR BEGAUSE OF THE PRESENT "HEAT." La

RECEIVED:

9:15 PM FN

#,

He Merr

REC- 66.

97-3171-12

II OCT 2

1963

"ORTAINED

30 14 023

15 Pre at P3:

2:3 30

COPY SENT TO MR. TOLSON

1963

CoR.

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

DocId: phrased in ordere protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

---

