# docid-32294801

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10214-10077

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

124-198-10

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MAXSON, PETER F.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/15/1948

9

EHH, ASSOC, BKG INVEST

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32294801

Page 1

---

## Page 2

C

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

REPORT MADE AT

ALBANY, NO. YORK

TITLE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

DATE WHEN MADE

6/15/48

PERIOD FOR

WHICH MADE

6/1-3,15/48

FILE NO.

124-10

REPORT MADE SY

PETER F. MAXSON

CHARACTER OF CASE

E. HOARD HIT, JR.

EUROPEAN RECOVERY PROGRAM

MD

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

HUNT family has favorable reputation in Albany Appli-

cant's father is Counsel and Secretary of Insurance Fed-

eration of lew Yorks State and Insurance Company lobby.

Applicant iimself has spent little time in Albany since

1941, but neighbors describe hin as a fine, clear-living

individual and reporiedly a successful author. No deroga-

tony iniornation developedo Credit record satisfactory.

o criminal record, albany Polica Denartment.

22517IE:

UC-

Suresu leuter to albany dated 5,26/48

ALONE, LIAL FORES

Phe Mbary City roctory Lists Applicant's father as Secretary

and Counsel of the Insurance l'ederation of New Yor' State, 1l

Horth Pearl Streete

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

Bureau (ASD)

Moany

Confidential Intomant I-1, of nom reliability, advised that

this Federation is an Association of Casualty Agents in the State,

and that ine lue, Sta, is a paid lew Yoris State Loboyist and

representative of this association, and that he also works in a

similar capacity for the life insurance Presidents' association

on a national basis.

This Informant advised that ne had known Mir. HUNT

35 year

that he is a highly respectable and outstanding man who has never

given any evidence of disloyalty or UnAmerican sentime

ITS• CLACE L. TRAVER, neighbor of the HUNTS at 03 Milett

A. Commelics, 7

M. IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE

124-198-10

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

zon of supres

EX-33

2

i .:

C. S. DOTBREMPT PROSTISE CFFICE

7-2034

DocId: 32294801 Page 2

---

## Page 3

A1- 124-10

CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANT

Confidential Infornant I-1 is Ir. H. N. LONERGAN, General

Agent, Aetna Life Insurance Company, Il2 State Street, who requested

that his identity be kept confidential.

DocId: 32294801

Page

---

## Page 4

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

BUREAU

FILE NO.

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

REPORT MADE AT

ALBANY, NEW YORK

TITLE

124-10

KHD

DATE WHEN MADE

6/15/48

H4r09104

WHICH MADE

6/7-3,15/48

E. HONARD HUNT, JR.

REPORT MADE BY

PETER F. MAXSON

CHARACTER OF CASE

EUROPEAN RECOVERY PROGRAM

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

REFERENCE:

DETAILS:

WNT family has favorable reputation In Albany. Applia

cant's father 18 Counsel and Secretary of Insurance Fed-

eration of New Iork State and Insurance Company Lobbys

Applicant himself has spent little time in Albany since

1941, but neighbors describe him as a fine, clean living

individual and reportedly a successlul author. No deroga-

tory information developedo Credit record satisfactory.

No criminal record, Albany Police Department.

-RUC-

Bureau letter to Albany dated 5/26/48

AT ALBANY, NEW YORKS

The Albany City Directory Lists Applicant's fatber as Secretary

and Counsel of the Insurance Federation ol New Jork State, 11

North Pearl Street-

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

similar capacity for the life insurance Presidents' associatio

on a national basis.

This Informant advised that he had know ic. HUNT for 25 yeares

that be 18 a highly respectable and outstending man who has never

given any evidence af disloyalty or Unamerican sentiments.

MES• CLARENCE A. TRAVER, neighbor of the HUNTS at 29 millett

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES:

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

3 Bureau (ANSD)

Albany

L. & GOTGANNENT ERINTING OETICS

7-20:34

DocId: 32294801 Page 4

---

## Page 5

A1. 124-10

CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANT

Confidential Infornant T-1 is Mc. He Ne LONERGAN; General

Agent, Aetna Tufe Insurance Company, 112 State Street, who requested

that his identity be kept confidentlal.

DocId: 32294801 Page 5

---

