# docid-32309150

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10297-10277

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-900

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 10/02/1962

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SAMUEL G. GIANCANA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32309150

Page 1

500

---

## Page 2

4-41 (ReV: 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

V.

ST xe Radio

Tition

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeL oach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel-

Trotte

Te!

Hòt

Gani

• Teletype

дели-

DEFERRED

10-2-62

TO OIRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO

031850

114-1

POONAL CONEdENGINEERAN.

DAILY SUMMARY. POI GEORGE VYDRA: REPORTED OCTOBER 1

LAST REGARDING HIS RECENT TRIP TO PHOENIX, ARIZONA WITH SAI

ENGLISH AND MIKE SABATINO, BOTH GIANCANA LIEUTENANTS.

INFORMANT ARRIVED PHOENIX SEPTEMBER 26 LAST, MET AT AIR-

PORT BY JOSEPH ENGLISH, BROTHER OF SAM, DROVE 93 MILES

EAST TO A RANCH NEAR RIMROCK, DRIVING ON BACK ROADS.

ENGLISH POINTED OUT 400 ACRES OF RANCH TO BE SUBDIVIDED,:

THEN DROVE TO HOME ON RANCH LOCATED ON TOP OF A HILL;

WHERE SEVERAL LOOKOUTS WERE POSTED. INFORMANT COUNTED

NINE UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUALS STAYING AT RANCH HOME WHO

ARE APPARENTLY, IN WORDS OF INFORMANT, HIDING OUT.

ENGLISH POINTED OUT SOME DRY WELLS IN

AREA, TOLD INFORMANT

" THIS IS WHERE WE DROP BOYS WHO DONT BEHAVE"• PARTY

DROVE BACK TOWARD PHOENIX REGISTERED AT SAFARI MOTEL,

FROM WHERE ENGLISH CALLED JOSEPH AMATO, FORMER CHICAGO

HOODLUM, NOW RESIDING IN TUSCON; ARIZONA. ENGLISH

ADVISED

INFORMANT HE OWNS PROPERTY NEXT TO AMATO IN

TUSCON.

W

ALL.

TRINED

DATE, 4/20/844

REC- 37

C106

92-3/2=900.

91 OCT 8 1962

5 6 0CT 1 2 1962

1 is Buy

If the intelligence contained in the above

message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

13 CO&0 BECIOS

DocId: 32309150 Page 2

---

