™ + 12-13-56: . 2
FD-36 (Rev. 12. ) O ©

PBI
Date: 8/4/61
(Type in plain text or code)

io AIRTEL REGISTERED MAIL

'
1
1
1
1
1
1
i
1
1
I
Transmit the following in +
1
t
4
1

(Priority or Method of Mailing)
geben anes iaaraszene set eas il gaese Anges teeaaoren gee usvazeee Seeiggts sane -oegengsezasaren ges is edsseseHieenigaas sare rid eeu yls-eletOS ses g Ugatigaseptisiehsaguagastine
a Director, FBI (92-6054; 137-1018)
eu: SAC, Philadelphia JUNE
A COSA NOSTRA
PH 672-C-TE

Re Phila. telephone call to Bureau 8/4/64 in which
authorization was obtained to make installation at 1531 S.
Broad St., Phila.

For background, the following information is furnished

On 8/4/64 PH 672-C-TE met with FRANK NICOLETTI at
NICOLETTI's residence. During the meeting arrangements were
made for ANGELO BRUNO and NICOLETTI to meet with informant at
informant's address, 1531 S. Broad St., Phila. Thursday evening.
The purpose of this meeting is to request BRUNO's, by the in-
formant, assistance in having restitution payments on bad check
charges lowered to a figure less than the $75.00 per month
amount presently being paid.

Informant will endeavor to obtain higher wages from
the Philadelphia-New Jersey Express where he is now employed,
having obtained this employment through“the assistance of
BRUNO. Informant is being paid less than Union wages even
though his employer's firm is unionized by Local 107, Teamsters
Union, Phila.

During the current week the informant's family is
vacationing, which leaves his apartment unoccupied during the
day hours. It will be necessary to trespass to make the
installation; however, no breach of security is foreseen.

If complete security is not available; : installation will not
be made.

3 On - REGISTERED mari”
‘R- Phila. (92-1027 Sub >) EX10

rae rr
JRP:ERG por” a

aR? -
Appr Sent,
aaa Special Agent in Charge {UG ¥
’ 6 AUG #7 1964

Docld:32576083 Page 1

