# docid-32293029-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10210-10305

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-2713-153

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 04/08/1961

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

CM, INFT, WHEREABOUTS, INS, REQ, TESTIFY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/04/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

10

---

## Page 2

445 pm 4-8.61

STAFFELDON

MANDREWS ADUSEO

+0 10.4-8-11

TO ADUISE

DATE AND

PURPOSE OF MEG

AutollGArioN

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

APR8

1961

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Parsong

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen:.

Mr. Tavel..

Mr. Trotter

Mr. W.O. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

URGENT 4-861 3-00 PM CST NB

TO, DIRECTOR, FBI 92-2713

CATHOLIC, NEE ORLANS 92-26 1P

MARCELLO, AR. CLARENCE JOHNSON, DISTRICT DIRECTOR, I. AND

No So, NEW ORLEANS, REQUESTED IDENTITY OF NEW ORLEANS PCI RAYMOND

ROLLING TO TESTIFY AT HEARING AT WASHINGTON, DO CO, RE CARLOS MARCELLO.

ROLLING CONTACTED SA REGIS L. KENNEDY APRIL SEVEN AND REQUESTED

THAT HIS NAME BE MAINTAINED IN CONFIDENCE AS HE FEARS ECONOMIC

REPRISAL BECAUSE OF EMPLOYMENT AND FUTURE HOPES OF GAMBLING IN

JEFFERSON PARISH• ROLLING ADVISED HE IS ENROUTE TO UNDISCLOSED

LOCATION IN TENNESSSEE TODAY TO PURCHASE FIGHTING CHICKENS AND

UNAVAILABLE FOR CONTACT. ROLLING RESIDES LACOMBE, LOUISIANA,

ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER NOT AVAILABLE. ROLLING-S NAME HAS NOT

BEEN FURNISHED TO I. AND N. S. AND EFFORTS WILL BE MADE TO CONTACT

HIM TO OBTAIN HIS PERMISSION TO REVEAL HIS IDENTITY.

END AND ACK PLS®

4-03 PM OK FBI WA JSA

EX 100

REC

95

TU DISC

i.

92-2713-153

• APR 26 1961

55 MAY 1

1961

CE47A8K53

---

