JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10226-10078
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —162-1347-3_
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DUFFY, JOHN M.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 02/25/1965
PAGES: 9
SUBJECTS :
SS, ASSOC, FISUR, GAMBLING ACT, RES, CREDIT RECORDS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
“ CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4 :
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 04/11/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

Date:

417/201

vol
Docld:32299798 Page 1


NO 162-442
JMD:ch

In that toll records for telephones used by
subject are presently being obtained, this information
will be reported on completion of search by telephone
company.

Will continue to contact informants in con-
nection with the activities of SAM SAIA.

If considered advisable, will conduct physical
surveillance of subject from his establishment, Felix's
Restaurant and Bar, 739 Iberville St.

INFORMANTS

NO T-1 is PCI BERNARD ANSARDI who was contacted
by SA JOSEPH G. PEGGS.

NO T-2 is PCI C, RAY EDMONDS who was contacted by
SA JOSEPH G. PEGGS.

NO T-3 is PCI JENNIE SMITH who was. contacted by
SA REGIS L. KENNEDY. zt

NO T-4 is NO 1232-C-TE, who was contacted by
SA REED W, JENSEN.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Certain information contained herein precedes
the date of prior report because such information did not
come to case Agent's attention until. subsequent to time
report was written.

The name of PCE JENNIE SMITH is set forth in a
portion of this report because PCI voluntarily furnished
information to New Orleans Police Department. concerning
associate of subject, and her.name was therefore set forth
in police records reported herein.

COVER PAGE B*

Docld:32299798 Page 2



o ca

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

- FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
Copy to: . 1 - USA, New Orleans
Report oft SA JOHN M, DUFFY Office: New Orleans
Date: 2/25/65 .
Field Office File No: NO 162-442 Bureau File No: 162-1347
Title: SAM SAIA

“UL INFORMATION CONTAINED
3 UNCLASSIFIED

Character: INTERSTATE GAMBLING ACTIVITIES) f rE B-19-€3 BYSe1-Gse So
aos ay /
Synopsis: Informants continue to report subject operating

large handbook throughout New Orleans and Jef-
ferson Parish area. Credit and criminal check

on subject and subscribers to telephones employed

by subject set forth. Gambling evidence confiscated
by New Orleans PD in connection with arrest of
JOSEPH CARRILLES described.

P
ENCLOSURE TO U. S. ATTORNEY, NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA

One copy of letterhead memorandum
characterizing informants.

DETAILS:

On December 15, 1964, Sgt. FREDERICK
SOULE, JR., Commanding Officer, Headquarters,
Special (Vice) Squad, furnished the following infor-
mation to SA JOHN M, DUFFY at New Orleans, Louisiana: |

On November 6, 1964, Sgt. SOULE arrested
JOSEPH CARRILLES, white male, 38, 1755 Paul Morphy
Street, charging him with operating a race horse
handbook and confiscating a large amount of gambling
evidence in connection with this arrest. Sgt. SOULE
advised that CARRILLES was arrested with seventeen
other individuals pursuant to information obtained
from one JEAN SMITH described as housekeeper for
CARRILLES at 1755 Paul Morphy Street who notified
Sgt. SOULE that she had information concerning a
race horse handbook in the 500 block of Gov. Nicholls

pereet. She further advised the police that CARRILLES
ept records
This document contains agp recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the ¥BL and is loaned id ‘your agency; it and
its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency. iH

Docld:32299798 Page 3


NO 162-442
JMD:ch

of his gambling activity in the trunk of his car, a red
Ford bearing Louisiana License 150B316 and other records
at his residence. She stated she was providing this
information in that she was deathly afraid of CARRILLES

as he had beaten her on several occasions and had recently
threatened to break her arms. In connection with this
arrest, Sgt. SOULE displayed the gambling evidence confis—
cated which is described as follows:

Found in the trunk of JOSEPH CARRILLES’ car, a
red Ford bearing Louisiana 1964-65 License No. 150B316:

Item No, 1 - Racing forms dated 1964 as follows:

Jan, 7-9-20-21-30

Feb, 2-22-25-26-29

Mar. 5 *

June 10-17-18-19-20-21-22

Aug. 22-24-25-26-27-28-29-31

Sept. 1-2-3~4~5-7-8-9-10-11-12-14-16-17-18-1
21-22-23-25-26-28-29-30 a

Oct. 1-2

Item No. 2 - The following found in the trunk of CARRILLES'
vehicle:

A. 1 package containing records of bets, sports,
bulletins, and racetrack programs from March,
1964,

B. 1 package containing records of racehorse bets
and sports bulletins for May, 1964,

C. 1 package containing sports bulletins and
records of racehorse bets for April, 1964.

D. 1 package containing records of racehorse
bets and sports bulletins for November, 1963.

E. 1 package containing records of racehorse bets
and sports bulletins for July, Aug. and Sept.,
1964,

F. 1 package containing racehorse programs, sports |

bulletins and records of racehorse bets for
Feb., 1964.

G. 1 package containing sports bulletins and records
of racehorse bets for April, 1963.

2 a Gee eal

DoclId:32299798 Page 4

