JFK Assassination System Date: 5/19/201
Identification Form
“Agency Information
i AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10222-10057
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 92-6054-1908
~ Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DUFFIN, THOMAS M.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 04/18/1967
“PAGES: 322
SUBJECTS :
LCN, MEETING, LASTELLA RESTAURANT, IDENT,
TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS, CGA, MED RECORDS, JAC, PEP,
ASSOC, CM, JM, LST, LOCAL GRAND JURY, PENDING, SUR
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/08/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES 2-4

v9.1
Docld:32298281 Page 1



FD-263 (Rev. 9-17-65)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE ‘OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD ~
NEW YORK NEW YORK 4/18/87 | 10/13/66 = 4/18/87

TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY TYPED BY
LA ‘COSA- NOSTRA. ~-- THOMAS M, DUFFIN :

LA STELLA RESTAURANT MEETING CHARACTER OF CASE
NEW YORK CITY, 9/22/66

ANTI-RACKETEERING

REFERENCES

Bureau airtel to New York, et al, 4/4/67;

Bureau airtel to New York, et al, 3/14/67;

New York report of SA THOMAS M, DUFFIN, 10/21/66,
captioned, "LA COSA NOSTRA; AR -. CONSPIRACY",

-P- :

ENCLOSURES ; &, ;

TO BUREAU (2 :

: Original and one copy of LHM. setting forth characteriza-
tions of informants utilized in this report.
aed

Case has been: Pending over one year (—]Ses (C] No; Pending prosecution over six months Ores oe
PRE ? ‘SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE, DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

oe (9246054) (BreTs=e) atal605 71 / IO,

COPIES CONTINUED 37 APR 21 1967

2 - New, York ne ea 0)
MAV:10 1967
Laven
by

COPIES Mi

Dissemination Record of Attached Report Notations

Agency

ig Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd,

|
Docld:32298281 Page 2


a
3

C

NY 92-2300-Sub 0

Information from records maintained by the New
York Telephone Company whieh is set forth in the details
of this report was obtained from Mr. WILLIAM R. ENNIS,
Security Supervisor, New York Telephone Company, 104
Broad Street, New York, New York, 10004.

The information set forth which was obtained
from the Chesapeake and Potomac (C andP) Telephone Company,
Richmond, Virginia, was supplied by THOMAS E, HARRIS,

Staff Accountant, Security Matters, C and P Telephone
Company of Virginia, 10 North Nansemond Street, Richmond,
. Virginia.

Information re telephone number listings furnished
to WFO was made available by CS WF 1499-c.

Positive results of informant contacts of auxiliary
offices are set forth in the details of attached report.
Records of negative informant contacts by auxiliary offices
are being maintained in New York case file.

INFQ@RMANTS :

Informant Identity
NY T-1 CG 6343-c*
Ny T-2 MI 623-C-TE
NY T-3 : CSNY-321

NY T-4 DE 370-C-TE
NY T-5 DE 889-C-TE

NY T-6 | DE 968-C-TE

COVER PAGE
G

Docld:32298281 Page 3



© oo

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
POSTPONEMENT INFORMATION SHEET (JFK MATERIALS)

/ Page(s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.
One or more of the following statements, where indicated,
explain this deletion (these deletions) .

iz 4 Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement.
rationale indicated below with no segregable material
available for disclosure, All references relate to
Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992,"

[]. Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

(] Subsection 13 (intelligence source or method)

(] Subsection ic (other matter relating to military
defense, intelligence Operations or
the conduct of foreign relations)

{] Subsection

uv

(living person who provided
confidential information)

[] Subsection 3 (unwarranted invasion of privacy

WW Subsection 4 (cooperating individual or foreign
government, currently requiring
protection)

(] Subsection 5 (security or protective procedure,
currently or expected to be utilized)

{] Information pertained to a matter unrelated to.the JFK
Assassination investigation.

(] For your information:

W the following number is to be used for. reference
regarding this page (these Pages):

WG GA-bos ¥ L408 ppg.3 07.

yOOO00000K. - xoooaonodc
: ooo yooogago0a

Docld:32298281 Page 4


_FD-263 (Rev. 9-17-65)

Cc

(ae
NA

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

rere OFFER OF Onion Dare SeVeETIaaTine exnico:
NEW YORK NEW YORK 4/18/57 10/13/66 - 4/18/67
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY

LA ‘COSA NOSTRA

THOMAS M, DUFFIN

TYPED BY

LA STELLA RESTAURANT MEETING
NEW YORK CITY, 9/22/66

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

REFERENCES

Bureau airtel to New York, et al, STS
Bureau airtel to New York, et al, 3/1 B/er
New York report of SA THOMAS M. DUFFIN, 10/21/66,
captioned, "LA COSA NOSTRA; AR - CONSPIRACY",

- Pe
ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU (2)

Ce

Original and one copy of LHM setting forth characteriza-
tions of informants utilized in this report.

Case has been: Pending over one year (Jes [(] No; Pending prosecu

{Mon over six months [7] Yes oe

SPECIAL AGENT
IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

wrmowro TENN
_ Corres M. ‘ t

iy). Bureau (92-5054) (BeRer=e) (RM

COPIES CONTINUED

2 - New. York (925 -Sub 0)
sti ae

dl-05 71/90

47 APR 21 1967

—

MAY: 10 1967

Dissemination Record of ‘Attached Report
Agency o

Request Recd. |
Date Fwd,

Notations

oro
Fal \

Docld:32298281 Page 5


ei

NY 92-2300-Sub 0

INFORMANTS: (Cont'd)
Informant

NY T-7

NY T-8
NY T-9
NY T-10

NY T-11
NY T-12
NY T-13
NY T-14
NY T-15
NY T-16
NY T-17

Docld:32298281 Page 6

my
i?

Identity

Detective THOMAS O'BRIEN,
Central Investigation Bureau
New York City Police
Department

(Conceal by Request)

NO 1435-c-TE

NO 1390-C-TE

JOSEPH HEGEMAN
(PCI, New Orleans)

NO 1457-C-TE

LV 203-C-TE

SD 1064-C-TE

NY 5581-c-TE

NY 3436-C-TE
Legat, Rome

The Central Bureau
Criminal Division

Italian National Police
Rome, Italy

COVER PAGE
H

G2- gosf- (9708

i
i
H
t
1
i



WY 92-2300 Sub 0

In February, 1967, NY T-17 advised NY T-16 that
THOMAS EBOLI “stayed at the Hotel San Germano, Naples, Italy,
from August 13 to August 28, 1966. EBOLI was registered
at the hotel during that period with his wife, MARY EBOLI.
According to NY [-17, the hotel management provided EBOLI
with the keys to a safe deposit box whsre valuables could
be placed for the period of his stay at the hotel. The
records of the San Germano Hotel revealed that receipt number
22, dated Auguzt 18, 1966, was given to EBOLI for safe
deposit box number 2. :

pertinent information regarding EBOLI's

* No ¢ _
Geveioped by N¥ T-17. .

stay in Italy

- 307% -

G2- 605A SHOE

Docld:32298281 Page 7

