# docid-32332891

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

11/30/20 /

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90104-10189

HQ

92-2940-1

Released under the John

' kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 56792 Date:

A-10-2018

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

PG

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/23/1957

PAGES:

68

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3; 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS:

RPT

19.1

HH 56792

DocId: 32332891

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PG 92-226

September 1933 - October, 1949:

February 25, 1944:

October 1949 to present:

This

address

Resided al; 6426 Apple Avenue,

Pitisbursh, Pa.

Subject adopted a child

(HOWARD BESLIE HOFFMAN) 2ü

Greensburg, Pa. ührough the

Westmoreland County Orphans

Court.

The father of this

chila is TONY TERRIGIO (not

further identified) and the

child was born in Greensburg.

Pa. on October: 1, 1943..

The

child was then naned JOHN.

Subject resides at 900 West

Ingomar Road, Ingorar, Pa.,

was verified by THOMAS JOSEPH CARMODY,

THOMAS, Thomas Senvice Station, Ingomar Road, Ingomar, Pa.,

telephone FOrest 4-9995.

LA ROCCA has three brothers: ANTHONY LA ROCCA, 6323 Glenview

Place, Pittsburgh, Pa., employed as a barber; JOSER LA ROCCA,

6528

Apple Avenue,

Pittsburgh, Pa. (last known address);

JOHN LA ROCCA, 900 West Ingonar Road, Ingomar, Pa.

LA ROCCA was interviewed by SA JOHN S. PORIELLA on October 10,

1955 ai which time he adviced his brother JOHN was single and

resided with him.

This is the last known address for JOHN.

LA ROCCA has three sisters; Mre. ROSE CONTI, 380 Rose Avenue,

Buffalo, New York; Mrs. LEONA ROSE, R. D. 3,

Box 351, Broadhead.

I'ownship of Moon, Coraopolis, Pa.; Mrs. ANGELINE ZITTO,

Baltimore, Maryland.

The only indication that has been as. to any of LA RoccA's

family being engaged in business with him is in the I & G

Amusement Company, 6323 Glenview Place, Pittsburgh.

=3-

HH 56792 DocId:32332891 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-226

The records of the Prothonatory's Office, City County

Building, Pitosburgh, reveal that JoHN d. LA nocee was a

partner to JOHN S. LA ROCCA and MICHAEL GENOVESE.

I-1, who has furnished reliable information in the past,

advised on November 22, 1957, that MIKE GENOVESE is the

prorege of JOHN LA ROCCA and will evencually succeed LA ROCCA

in the latter's many gambiing interests.

It is to be noted that the address 6323 Glenview PLace,

Pittsburgh, is listed for ANthOny La rocca. A 1957 Pittsburgh

Telephone Directory bears out this listing.

LA ROCOA at a deportation hearing has testified thao this

business

has been merged with the Coin Machine Dissribusing

Company.

On November 6, 1957=

JOSEPII PEGINO (RAGNO), Capital Bowling

Alleys, Franklin and Vine

Street, Johnstown, Fa., advised

I-2, who has furnished reliable information in the past,

that he and the subject are partners in the Keystone

Cigarette Vending Company at Johnscown, fa.

According to

Tw2, REGINO and the subject have 75 percent and the other

25 percent is held by JOHN J. LA ROCCA.

T=3, another government agency conducting intelligence

Investigations. made available on May 28, 1955l

JEK Law 11(a)

-4-

Rellase in part

uper IRS 1/14/98g0

94-29401

NW 56792

DocId: 32332891 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 9240226

03 December 23, 1957, FRANK W. MAGILL, Assistant Unief,

inse ligence Division, Internal Revenue Service, Pietshugh

Pa.e

JFK Law 11(a)

LA ROCCA in recent years

nse been involved in deportation hear=

ings, and que so testimony so these nearingss

a parjury triai

in the U. S. Distric Count, Western Dissros of Pennsylvania

as Pitoshurch, Ea.

The subject hed applied for naturailzation os May 12, 1950.

On January 20: 1953 a wazurant

-ssued Inch sne.D1302108

Director au Philadelphia. Pa. Paced on Sections 241 !

(a) (4)

and 212 (ai112) of the inniecacion and Nacionaity Act.

The following is an outine of the proceecangs agsinge It ROSSA

as sei oui in releases fion various Filesburg newspapers:

On january 21, 1953 a release of the "Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph"

stating in part:

"JOTO TA ROCCA, Who has figuaed in a marbei

oi local rackot pudlicitys

IIis

today gos some national. recognisior.

arrest on charges that may lead to his asporcation

is the

first locally under the MeSarrar Immigratich Ast which became

law last Christinas Eve.

The capper l rocor

50, of castmas,

was arrested

shis nomine at his office at 500 North Craig

Sortes, desugled by the Standard Dryer Disindouting Company,

Dia danuary 22, 1953, a "Plüesburgh Press" news release stated:.

*Pardon Bosud appeared Cavorable today to a request for a

parco IIlad by JOH LA a0000 of Pictsburgh now under arosü

LA Rocco sought a pardon foi whe

conviccon of crines in 1959 mroving larvany and the resetr

of stolen goods.

"WillianS. Livengood, ir.: Secretary of interuai Affairs

a Pardons Board member, indicated he favored a pardon for LA

tra bate

and

ROSCO.

In ROCCO's request for a full padon was opposed ac

the hearine by D. Albers Mazer, AssistANJ rudesburgh Diotrict

Accorney,

Mazer joid the board'he was not convinced?

LA ROCCO

i Was hot engaged in commercial vice. i

Ancther board

CONE D. SMITH, Connonwealsh Secretary, Gold Me. Mazor

Te would ba derriculo do hold up in Boycos pardon merely on

suspicion.

LA ROCCO was represenied at today's hearing iy V. J.

RICH, Piüsburgh attorney, who told the Pardons board was she

authorities waited until

the day before LA Pocco's board acaring

co arresi him in an effori to embarrass LA ROCCO."

-50

74-2940-1119)

56792 DocId:32332891 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-226

INFORMANTS

T-1 is RUDY SCKOL, PCI, who was contacted by SA JOiN S.

PORTELLA, 11/22/57.

T-2 1s HAROLD W. LAUVER, INS Investigator, who desired that

his identity be concealed relative to some information set

forth, contacted by SA WILLIAM R. WALL On 12/12,13,16,19/57.

To3 is Report of G. WILSON SPIELER, Investigator Conferree,

Intelligence Divisions Internal Revenue Service, dated

4/18/55, reflecüing examination conducted by special agents

of the Internal Revenue Service, LUDWIG J. BCNCIOVANNI and

GENE A. FANNETON of the Susce Reporü.

I=4 iS DOMINICK TRONZO, Uncle tO TERESA TRONZO, who desires

his identity be concealeds Miller Avenues Homer City, Pa.,

• contacted in 1/53 by SA WILLIAM I. MYERS.

T-5 is PG 573-C contacted by SA FORTELLA on 10/5/53 and

9/13/55.

I-6 is former PG 509-l contacted by SA PORIELLA on 9/4/54

and 7/30/530

I=? is PG 561-0, who was contacted by SA CARL L. SHERWOOD

on 9/11/57.

To8 is PCI CHESTER STUFAK, contacted by SA PORTELLA

on

12/13/54 and 10/21/55.

-30-

NH 56792

DocId: 32332891

Page

---

## Page 6

PG 92-226

September 1933 - October, 1949:

Resided at 6426 Apple Avenue,

Pitosburgh, Pa.

February 25, 1944:

subject adopsed a child

(HOWARD JESLIE HOFFMAN) a

Greensburg, Pa. through the

Westmoreland County Orphans

Court.

the father of this

child is

TONY TERRIGIO (not

fursher identified) and the

onild was born in Greensburg,

Pa. on Occober li 1943:

child was then named' JOHN.

October 1949 to present:

Subject resides at 900| West

Ingonar Roau, Ingorar, Pa.

This adopecs

vericied s. THOMAS JOSETH CARMODY,

Alleghany County Desective Bureau, Piüssburgh, Pü., on

December 18, 1957.

Detective CARMODY suggested that further

information regarding LA ROCCA might be obsained from a Mr.

THOMAS, Thoinas Service Station, Ingonar Road, Ingemar, Pa.,

telephone Forest 4-9995.

LA ROCCA has three broühers:

ANTHONY,

6323 Glenview

Piace, Pittsbugh, Fa.

employed as a

barber;

A ROCCA JOSEPH LA ROCCA,

6528 Apple Avenue,

Pittskurgh, Pa. (Last known address,;

JOHN LA ROCCA, 900 West Ingomar Road, Ingomar,

T.A ROCCA was interviewed by SA JOHN S. PORTELLA on October 10,

1955 au which time he advised his brother JOHN was single and

resided with him.

This is the last known address for JolN.

IA ROCCA has three sisters; Mrs. ROSE CONTI, 350 Rose Avenue,.

Buffalo, New York; Mrs. LEONA ROSS, R. D. 3,

Box. 351, Brcadhead.

Township of Moon, Coragpolis, Pa.; Mrs. ANGELINE ZITTO,

Baltimore, Maryland:

The only indication thai has been as. to any of LA RoccA's

family being encaged in business with him 1s in the & c

Amusement Company, 6323 Glentiew Place, Pitcsburgh.

Ga.

- 3-

HH 56792 DocId:32332891 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PG 92-226

The records of the Prothonatory's Office, City-County

Building, Pittsburgh, reveal that JOHN J. LA ROCCA Was a

partner to JOHN S. LA ROCCA and MICHAEL GENOVESE.

I-I, who has furnished reliable information in the past,

advised on November 22, 1957, that MIKE GENOVESE is the

protege of JOHN LA ROCCA and will eventually succeed LA ROCCA.

in the latter's many gambiing itterests.

It is to be noted that the address 6323 Glenview Place,

Pittsburgh, is lisisd fos ANTHONY LA ROCCA.

A 1957 Pittsburgh

Telephone Directory bears out this listing.

LA ROCCA at a deportation hearing has testified that this

business

has been merged with the

Coin Machine Discribusing

Company.

On November 6, 1957= JOSBELT FEGINO (RAGNO), Capital Bowling

Alleys, Franklin and Vine Street, Johnstown, Pa., advised

I-2, who has furnished reliable information in the past,

that he and the subject are partners in thenkeystone

• According to

25 percent is held by JOHN J. LA ROCCA.

T-3, another government agency conducting intelligence

investigations, made available on May 28, 1955

JEK Law 11(a)

- 4-

92-2940-1

11(9)

HH 56792 DocId:32332891 Page 7

---

## Page 8

FC 920226

On December 23, 1957, FRANK W. MAGILL, Assistant Chief,

Intelligence Division, Internal Revenue Service, Pittsburgh,

P5.3

JFK Law 11(a)

LA ROCCA in recent years has been involved in deportation hear

ings, and due to tessimony

ac thase hearines, a perjury trial

in

the U.S. Districo Court, Western District of Pennsylvania

at Pitosburgh, Pa.

The subject had applied for naturalization on May 12, 1950.

On January 20, 1953 a warrant was issued from the District

Director at Philadelphia, Pa. haced on Seetions 241 (e) (4)

and 212 (a)(12) of the Innigracion and Nationality Act.

The following is an outline of the proceedings against LA ROCCA

as set out in releases from various Fitüsburgh newspapers:

On January 21, 1953 a release of the "Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph"

stating in part:

"JOHN LA ROCCA, Who has figured in a number

of local racket publicity, today gos some national recognition.

His

arrest on charges that may lead to his deporiation is the

first locally under the MoCarran Immigration Act which became

Lew last Christmas eve.

The dapper LA ROSCA, 50, of Ingorar,

was arrested this morning at his office as 500 Norch Craig

Street, occupied by the Standard Dryer Distributing Company. "

On January 22, 1953, a "Pittsburgh Press" news reicase staïed:

"Pardon Eoard appeared favorable today to a request for a

pardon filed by JOHN LA ROCCO of Pittsburgh now under arrest

as an undesirable alien.

LA ROCCO sought a pardon for the

conviction of crimes in 1939 involving larceny and the receipt

of stolen goods.

"WilliamS. Livengood, Jr., Secretary of Intemal Affairs and

a Pardons Board member, indicared he favored a pardon for LA

ROCCO. LA ROCCO's request for a full

parson was opposed au

the hearing by D. Albert Mazer, AssistANT Fistsburgh Dissriet

Mr. Mazer old the board he was 'not, convinced:

Attorney, was noù engaged in commercial vice. Another board

meinber, GENE D. SMITH. Commonwealth Seeretary, told Mr.

it would be difficult

to hold up LA Rocco's pardon merely on

suspicion.

LA ROCCO was represented at today's hearing by V. J.

RICH, Pistsburgh attorney, who told the Pardons Board that the

authorities waited until

he day belore de pie mean hearing

to arrest him in an effort to embarrass LA ROCCO.

-50

92-2940-1. 119)

56792 DocId:32332891 Page 8

---

## Page 9

PG 92-226

INFORMANTS

Tol Is RUDY SOKOL, PCI, who was contacted by SA JOIN S.

PORTELLA, 11/22/57.

T-2 Is HAROLD W. LAUVER, INS Investigator, who desired that

his identity be concealed relative to some information set

forth, contacted by SA WILLIAM R. WALL on 12/12,13,16,19/57.

T-3 is Report of G. WILSON STIVELER, Investigator Conferree,

Intelligence Divisions Internal Revenue Service, dated

4/18/55, reflecting examination conducted by special agents

of the Internal Revenue Service, LUDWIG T. BONCIOVANNI and

GENE A. PANNETON Of the Susce Reporü.

T=4 is DOMINICK TRONZO, uncle tO TERESA TRONZO, Who desires

his identity be concealed, Miler Avenue, Homer City, Pa.,

contacted in 1/53 by SA WILLIAM • MYERS.

T-5 is PG 573-C contacted by SA FORTELLA on 10/6/53 and

9/13/55.

Tob is former PG 509-l contacted by SA PORIELLA on 9/4/54

and 7/30/53.

I? is PG 561-C, who was contacted by SA CARL Lo SHERWOOD

on 9/11/57.

T=8 is PCI CHESTER STUFAK, Contected by SA PORIELLA On

12/13/54 and 10/21/55.

- 30-

NH 56792

DocId: 32332891

Page

---

