# docid-32303875

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10284-10387

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2717-341

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

LEG, LO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 09/22/1961

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32303875

Page 1

380

---

## Page 2

W. STANDARD FORM NO, 64

Office Memor.

dum • UNITED SI

SECRED

1 : DIRECTOR, FBI (92-21-0)

@FROM : LEGAT, LONDON (92-0)

SUBJECT:

ANGELO BRUNO, aka

GOVERNMENT

DATE: September 22, 1961

ReBulet 9/8/61.

Referenced letter requested this office to have

sources recontacted to determine if subject held any other

insurance policies besides that resulting in the $185,000

claim which was pald in April 1949. $70,000 of this was

held by Lloyds of London as reinsurers for the American

or the Ane ri car

International Reinsurance Corporation, of New York City.

Referenced letter also requested that it be determined if

JOSEPH STASSI was recipient of any payment. (S)

Reference is made to mylet April 27, 1961, which 1t

is believed answers this question and also to mycable, June 20,

HERATIS UNCLASSIFIED

1961, which stated no otcer information is available regarding

this matter and that Lloyds ôf London do not require details

regarding the individual policy holders, but merely reinsure

other insurance companies against undue or large losses (5)

This matter was again discussed with British

OSCISTI SE

Security Service MI-5 and Colonel Cumming advised that the

name JOSEPH STASSI is unknown to his source; that subject is

only indirectly known to his source; and that any further

information available could only come from the original

insurers who are the New York City reinsurance organization,

as mentioned above. Mr. CUMMING stated his sources are

unable to determine if subject or STASSI or both received

the $185,000 insurance payment and as far as Lloyds of

London are concerned, their only record of payment was

$70,000 to American

International Reinsurance Corporation

7/89

of New York City. (S)

несь

blassified by SPLBJA

GADR

SPSMAC

RUC

- Bureau

- London

ACM: eC

Declessify

#211,326

(6)

2-00 Til alphia 10/17.

0112/04

ML2M07UAE

RESS

432714-341

13. 102

4 SEP 28 1961

/ C0.1541

SECRED

66 0CT 4 1093

DocId: 32303875

Page 2

---

