# docid-32423544

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

7/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER :

157-10014-10156

RECORD SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 07-M-61

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

SSCIA

FROM: O'CONNOR, K. WILLIAM

TO :

CHURCH, FRANK

TITLE :

DATE: 07/17/1975

PAGES: 29

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

ORGANIZED CRIME

GIANCANNA, SAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Declassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/22/2000

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS : CCBOX 437

v9.1

DocId: 32423544

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date : 08/07/95

Page

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD

NUMBER : 157-10014-10156

RECORDS

SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 07-M-61

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

TO

SSCIA

O'CONNOR, K. WILLIAM

CHURCH,

FRANK

TITLE :

DATE: 07/17/75

PAGES

:29

SUBJECTS : GIANCANNA; SAM

ORGANIZED CRIME

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

:TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

: POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 01/08/99

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : CCBOX 437

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Doc1d: 32423544

Paue 2

---

## Page 3

ME UT PERSON HAVING ACCESS: FROM

TACLE DENOTES 1 TA MOSSE 1 OI

705

ken

ca

EA

4:45 2048722

1:054:00

18: 02 5430n

XX/:+

wyer

7:50

8:154

4!00

116/76

16.08

Wallach

77:3

9:00

10:00

113:30

6: 8

R 305

---

## Page 4

1505

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

July 17, 1975

honorable Frank Church, Chairman

United States Senate Select Committee

on Intelligence Activities

Washington, D. C. 20510

Dear Senator Church:

Pursuant to your requests of June 27, 1975, attached and

transmitted herewith are:

(1) a summary of the material in Departmental file

82-46-5;

'(2) the full text of a May 14, 1962 memorandum from the

CIA, and

(3) a copy of a report dated October 18, 1960, concerning

alleged statements by Sam Giancana that Fidel Castro

was going to be assassinated.

Incerely,

for K. WILLIAM O'CONNOR

Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination

RECEIVED FNOMI

Jul 171913

301

TOP SECRET

DocId: 32423544

Page 4

---

## Page 5

17505

OFFICE OF. THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL...

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

July 17, 1975

Honorable Frank Church, Chairman

United States Senate Select Committee

on Intelligence Activities

Washington, D. C. 20510

Dear Senator Church:

Pursuant to your requests of June 27, 1975, attached and

transmitted herewith are:

(1) a sumary of the naterial in Departmental file

82-46-5;

(2) the full text of a May 14, 1962 memorandum from the

CIA, and

(3) a copy of a report dated October 18, 1960, concerning

alleged statements by Sam Giancana that Fidel Castro

was going to be assassinated.

Incerely,

Michel E Shchei

for K. WILLIAM O'CONNOR

Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination

RECEIVED FROM

NOt 171275

001

TOP SECRET

DocId: 32423544

Page

5

---

## Page 6

1505

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

July 17, 1975

Honorable Frank Church, Chairman

United States Senate Select Committee

on Intelligence Activities

Washington, D. C.

Dear Senator Church:

Pursuant to

transmitted hereith are requests of June 27, 1975, attached and

(2) a 2-45-ary of the material in Departmental file

(2) thA, full text of a May 14, 2962 memorandu from the

3) a copy of a report dated October 18, 1960, concemin

lleged statements by San Giancana that Fidel Castr

won goto lo be dosasstrated.

Sincerely

Michel E Shitt

for K. WILLIAM O'CONNOF

Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordinatior

REGENED FROM

001

TOP SECRET

DOCId:32423544

Page

---

## Page 7

R505

TOP SECRET

SUBJECTS :

Sam Giancana, Robert Maheu, Edward L. Dubois, JI.,

Arthur James Balletti and Unknown Subject, aka

J. W. Harrison

Conspiracy to Violate Title 47, U.S.C. $605

(Wiretapping)

The following consists of a summary of the Bureau's

investigation and the results of their investigation into

the wiretapping of Dan Rowan's phone in his hotel room

at

the Riviera Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada, in October 1960.

The Bureau's initial investigative report dated November 10,

1960, reflects the results of

an interview with Lt. Carl Smith

of the Detective Bureau, Clark County Sheriff's Office on

November 1, 1960, involving the

arrest of Arthur Balletti on

October 31, 1960 for bugging the telephone box

in Dan Rowan's

hotel room. A search of Balletti's hotel room reflected

notes and notations which Balletti had written down dates

and

times

on which he had recorded portions of

Rowan's

telephone conversations. A black suitcase in Balletti's

room was opened

and it contained

a large quantity of

electronic devices, including transmitters, receivers,

wall

plugs, a minifon wire recorder and a set of 17 professional-

type lock

picks. On his arrival at the Clark County Sheriff's

Office, Balletti admitted

that he had been hired by Investiga-

tions Incorporated of Miami, Florida, a company owned by

former FBI Agent Edward DuBois, and that this company

apparently

had a

client who had requested an

investigation

concerning Rowan's private life. Balletti admitted listening

to and

recording Rowan's telephone conversations since

October 26, 1960.

According to Balletti, one Fred I. Harris,

an investigator from Miami, had entered Rowan's room and

TOP SECRET

CONTROL #7842-1

installed

the listening device.

REGEIVED FROM

TOP SECRET

JUL 1 7 1909

DOJ

This document consists of 20

pages

NO

1 of

2 copies

DocId: 32423544 Page 7

---

## Page 8

TOP SECRET

- 3 -

Results of Bureau Investigation Conducted

at Criminal Division Request

By a report dated December 23, 1960, at Miami, captioned,

"Arthur James Balletti;

J. W. Harrison Unauthorized Publication

and Use of Communications,"

a Special Agent of

the Bureau

advised that Edward L. Dubois, JI., was interviewed on

December 13, 1960, in Miami, Florida, at which time he stated

that he had handled certain matters for a Robert Maheu, who

operates a private investigation organization in Washington,

D.C.

Dubois stated that on October 25, 1960, he received a

telephone call from Maheu's principal assistant, one Walter

Fitzpatrick, requesting him to send two men to Las Vegas,

Nevada right away for physical surveillance work.

Maheu

subsequently

instructed DuBois to send only one man to

Las Vegas and advised DuBois that he had hired one

J. W. Harrison

to

accompany whomever Dubois sent.

DuBois

advised

that he sent Balletti to Las Vegas on October

26,

1960. DuBois next heard

from Balletti when Balletti phoned

stating that he had been arrested in Las Vegas

as a

result of

a wiretap

and Dubois added

that

Balletti had been hired

strictly for a physical surveillance.

The above-mentioned report dated December 23, 1960,

reflects that on December 13, 1960, Arthur James

Balletti was

interviewed in Miami, concerning his activities in Las Vegas,

Nevada. Balletti stated that he would discuss his activities

with

great reluctance and that

it was very probable that he

would refuse to answer many questions. Balletti advised that

on October 26, 1960 he had flown from Miami, Florida to Las

Vegas on a physical surveillance assignment

on the orders of

employer, Edward L. Dubois, and that it was his under-

Ustanding that he was actually working for some other private

DocId: 32423544 Page 8

---

## Page 9

TOP SECRET

-2 -

In the course of questioning by Lt. Smith, Dan Rowan

advised that within an hour of discussing the wiretapping of

his

phone with Phyllis McGuire of the McGuire Sisters Trio,

he received a call

from the "bosses" whom he would not identify

who told him that under no circumstances was he to press

charges against Balletti or try to determine why his conver-

sations were

being recorded

and that if he did they would

see that he was ruined professionally. Lt. Smith asked Rowan

if Sam Giancana, the Chicago hoodlum, who was known to have

kept company with Phyllis McGuire in the recent past might

have wanted to know what conversations Rowan and McGuire were

having.

Rowan replied, "How did you know about that?" and

stated, "You certainly could

have the

answer." On November 1,

1960, Rowan appeared at the Clark County Sheriff's Office and

signed a release, stating that he desired that all charges

against Balletti

be dropped

and that no

action be taken by

the Clark County Sheriff's Office with regard to the

burglary and the intrusion of privacy by use of

a listening

device, stating that Balletti was only working for someone

else.

Request for Investigation

By memorandum dated December 5, 1960, the Criminal Division

requested the Federal Bureau of Investigation to conduct a full

investigation, noting that the facts set forth in the report

referred

to

above

indicated a violation of the provisions of

47 U.S.C. 5605, and

a conspiracy by Arthur James Balletti,

Fred I. Harris, and possibly Investigations, Inc., Edward

DuBois

DuBois, and

others.

JUL 171009

D0J

TOP SECRET

DocId: 32423544 Page 9

---

## Page 10

TOP SECRET

-4 -

investigator who had requested the assistance of DuBois. According

to Balletti, at the Miami International Airport he met an in-

dividual he identified as J. W. Harrison from a description

previously given him and they flew together to Las Vegas.

Balletti advised that while in Las Vegas he physically sur-

veilled

Dan

Rowan and that Harrison apparently put some sort

of wiretap in Rowan's room there and monitored Rowan's phone

conversations and that he, Balletti, had nothing to do with the

tap, did not see it installed and never did any monitoring.

Balletti denied that he was accompanied to

Las Vegas by one

Fred T. Harris,

stating

that Harrison had used a ticket in the

name of Harris and, for this reason, the police in Las Vegas

apparently assumed

Harrison was Harris.

According to Balletti,

Harrison left Las Vegas before Balletti was arrested on

October 31, 1960. Balletti said he could not comment upon

the electronic equipment found

in his room.

An FBI investigative report dated December 22, 1960,

at Los Angeles, reflects that on December 21, 1960, Dan Rowan

furnished a signed

statement to special agents of the Bureau

at Los Angeles, California. According to Rowan, after originally

signing a complaint against Balletti, he discussed the phone

tapping incident with Harvey Silbert and Elias Atoll, members

of

the corporation which operates the Riviera Hotel and he, Rowan,

decided that pressing charges against Balletti would inconvenience

him. On November 1, 1960 at the Sheriff's Office, Rowan signed

release and dropped charges against Balletti.

Rowan advised that he

TOP SECRET

01 1 12205

D03

DocId: 32423544 Page 10

---

## Page 11

TOP SECRET

_5 -

did not give

/ anyone authority to record telephone calls or to install

listening devices in his Room No. 228 or No. 226 at the

Riviera Hotel.

A Bureau

investigative report dated December 30, 1960

at Salt Lake City

reflects that on December 20, 1960, It.

Carl Smith

advised that Balletti had been charged with in-

vasion of

privacy, a

felony; possession of burglary tools,

a misdemeanor; and operating as a private detective without

a license, a misdemeanor, with a preliminary hearing set

for April 24, 1961

in Justice of the Peace Court, Las Vegas.

The manager of Trans World Airlines, Las Vegas, advised

that company records reflect that one, F. T. Harris departed

Las

Vegas

on Trans World Airlines

Flight

No. 292

at 10:30

a.m.,

on October 30, 1960, to St. Louis, Missouri, where he made

connections with Trans World Airlines Flight No. 76 to Miami,

Florida.

On December 22, 1960, the desk clerk at the Riviera Hotel

was contacted

and

shown nine

photographs, including one of

Fred T. Harris.

The desk

clerk advised

that he could not

identify anyone whose photo had been exhibited as being identical

with the individual who checked into the Hotel on October 26,

1960 under the name of J. W. Harrison.

The

desk clerk added

that he did not think he would recognize either Balletti or

Harrison if he should see them in person.

On December 21, 1960, at Las Vegas, Nevada, Lt. William

Witte, Clarke County Sheriff's Office, furnished a list of

articles in Balletti's possession at the time of his arrest.

i11.

1101

DOI

TOP SECRET

DocId: 32423544 Page 11

---

## Page 12

TOP SECRET

- 6 -

These included a telephone bug transmitter recovered from

behind the bed in Room 228 at the Riviera Hotel; 17 lock

picks; 2 telephone bug devices; one ear phone; one cigarette

case containing a miniature transmitter; one Minox camera;

one Minox film and other

electronic and physical devices,

equipment and tools, all enumerated on three typed pages of

the foregoing investigative report dated December 30, 1960.

The hotel manager of the Riviera Hotel advised that

hotel records reflect that from October 27 to November 5,

1960, Rowan made 15 long distance calls to Edgewood, Nevada,

and that most of the calls had apparently been made to

Phyllis McGuire.

The hotel manager also advised

on December 21, 1960 at

Las Vegas, Nevada, that according to hotel records, Arthur J.

Balletti checked into the hotel on October 26, 1960 and was

assigned Room 331 and that the registration

card bears the

notation, "in room with Harrison".

Since Balletti's hotel

bill was in excess of $100 and he was not known, the manager

and the chief of security for the

hotel went to Room

331 and

no one was in the room when they entered. At this time, they

observed a yellow pad with the notation of time and a date

which referred to Dan Rowan and the hotel manager observed in

the top desk drawer what appeared to be a recording device.

After discussing the bill with Balletti and receiving a some-

what uncertain identification, the hotel manager

subsequently

notified the Clark County Sheriff's Office that he had ob-

served what appeared to be a recording device in Balletti's

room and suspected that a listening device might be installed

in Rowan'is cosh. The hotel manager and Deputy Sheriff Eversole

14L 13 1005

TOP SECRET

DOJ

---

## Page 13

TOP SECRET

-7 -

and another Deputy, name unrecalled,

entered Rowan's room

and the hotel manager observed what appeared to be some type

of microphone taped to the rear headboard on the bed in Rowan's

room with wires running to the telephone wall box. The hotel

manager observed the Deputy Sheriff remove the article from

the headboard.

This matter was discussed with Assistant United States

Attorney Raymond Sutton on

December 22, 1960, and he advised

Special Agents of the Bureau

that he desired to have the re-

sults of a full investigation prior to rendering a prosecutive

opinion. Mr. Sutton stated that upon the receipt of results

of full investigation he would, in all probability, present

the matter to the next

federal grand jury which meets in Las

Vegas.

By letter dated January 19, 1964, the Assistant Attorney

General of the Criminal Division advised the United States

Attorney at Reno, Nevada, Mr. Howard W. Babcock, attention:

Mr. Raymond

Sutton, that the United States

Attorney furnish

the Criminal Division with his prosecutive opinion upon com-

pletion of the investigation and that he not institute criminal

prosecution without our prior authorization, unless

time is of

the essence.

According to a Bureau report dated December 12, 1961, at

Washington, D. C..

Robert Maheu of Maheu and King

Associates,

Inc., Washington, D. C., advised

on December 27, 1960 that

he had received a call from a Los Angeles attorney asking Maheu

to recommend someone to do investigative work in Las Vegas,

TOP SECRET

-uL 16191a

001

DocId: 32423544 Page 13

---

## Page 14

TOP SECRET

Nevada for a client. Maheu stated that he recommended Edward

Dubois and that the Los Angeles attorney requested him to

contact DuBois to make the necessary arrangements to handle

the investigation in Las Vegas. Maheu stated that he could

not recall if he or Walter Fitzpatrick, an associate of Maheu,

had contacted DuBois regarding

this request.

He stated that

his firm was not involved in this matter and that DuBois had

been contacted only as a favor to the Los Angeles attorney.

Maheu denied

that he had

made a second call to DuBois

in-

structing him to send only one man to Las Vegas, adding that

he does not know any J. W. Harrison and is not acquainted with

Arthur

James Balletti. Maheu

advised that he did not

desire

to furnish the identity of the Los Angeles attorney who

originally contacted him without the attorney's consent.

By letter dated

January 27, 1961, Mr. Howard Babcock ad-

vised the Criminal Division that prior to any presentment that

office would be furnished with a prosecutive opinion and

noted that the Bureau

investigation in this matter has not

yet been completed.

An FBI investigative report dated February 8, 1961, at

Salt Lake City, reflects that efforts to identify unknown

subject, J. W. Harrison, have been unsuccessful.

The above report dated February 8, 1961 also reflects that

on January 2, 1961, at New York City, Phyllis McGuire advised that

she had not given authority to anyone to install a listening

device on Dan Rowan at any time and had no prior knowledge that such

a device had been

used before

the arrest of Arthur James Balletti.

TOP SECRET

DOI

DocId: 32423544 Page 14

---

## Page 15

TOP SECRET

- 9 -

The above report also reflects that Thomas Foley, Attorney-

at-Law, advised

on February 6, 1961, at Las Vegas, Nevada, that

during the latter part of October 1960, he received a tele-

phone call from

James

P. Cantillion, a Los Angeles attorney,

requesting Foley to represent Arthur J. Balletti who had been

arrested by the Clark County Sheriff's Office. Foley asked

Cantillion about payment of the legal fee and Cantillion stated

that he would

personally guarantee its payment. Foley stated

that he immediately contacted a bail bondsman and arranged

bond for Balletti.

Foley stated that he was of

the opinion

that James P. Cantillion is the son of father

and

son team,

Cantillion and Cantillion, a law firm in Los Angeles, Cali-

fornia.

Foley advised that Balletti's trial on the local

charge was set for April, 1961.

A Bureau investigative report dated January 28, 1961

at Miami, Florida, reflects that Fred T. Harris advised

on

January 24, 1961 that

although he formerly worked

asa

pri-

vate investigator for Investigations, Inc., from June 1960

until November 16, 1960, he did not work for Edward I.. DuBois.

However, since November 16, 1960, he has been back with DuBois

almost full time. Harris stated he definitely did not accompany

Balletti to Las Vegas and knew nothing of this affair and while

he could not pinpoint his complete activities, he was certain that

he was never out of Miami during the period from October 26

through 30, 1960. Harris also stated that he knew nothing

of electronic devices and never had any sound training and

sort of

would have no idea as how to install any/wiretap.

TOP SECRET

DocId: 32423544 Page 15

---

## Page 16

TOP SECRET

- 10 -

The same report reflects that Edward DuBois was inter-

viewed

on

January

24, 1961, at Miami, Florida, stating again

that Maheu had

informed him that he could only send one man

to Las Vegas, that he

gave two round-trip tickets to Balletti

who

went to the Airport, met Maheu's man and travelled

to

Las Vegas. DuBois stated that Fred Harris definitely did not

accompany Balletti to

Las Vegas and did not work for him

from June until the middle of

November, 1960. DuBois stated

he had no idea who had hired Maheu and that he had received

$1,000 from Maheu

for Balletti's services in

Las Vegas.

When he, DuBois, learned of Balletti's arrest, he contacted

Maheu in Los Angeles and Maheu knew of Balletti's arrest and

arranged

for a Los Angeles attorney to defend him. Maheu

indicated he had

made these arrangements through a Los Angeles

attorney whose identity he did not disclose.

According to the above-mentioned report, dated January

28, 1961, at Miami, Florida, the desk clerk of the

Kenilworth

Hotel advised, on January 25, 1961, that registration records

reflect that Robert A. Maheu of Washington, D. C., was

registered in Room 722 from October 11-29, 1960 and that

he was accompanied by one J. A. Rollins, also of Washington,

D. C., who stayed in Room 701 from October 11-30, 1960.

It

was the desk clerk's recollection that Maheu paid the bill

for both of the rooms and she noted that it was possible that

either Rollins or Maheu could have left the hotel for a

few

days and return and if the room was not given up, such

informa-

tion would helpe reflected on the registration card.

' 1T 1315

TOP SECRET

DocId: 32423544 Page 16

---

## Page 17

TOP SECRET

- 11 -

A Bureau investigative report dated February 14, 1961,

at Miami, Florida, reflects numerous long

distance phone calls

of Robert Maheu made in October 1960 from the Kenilworth Hotel

and four such

calls made by J.A. Rollins during October 1960.

A Bureau

investigative report dated March 6, 1961, at

Los Angeles, California, reflects the telephone listing for

the Los Angeles number called by DuBois immediately after

Balletti's arrest and the telephone listing for Los Angeles

numbers called by Maheu and J.A. Rollins from Miami Beach

in October 1960. In addition, the report reflects that

James

P. Cantillion, attorney, Los Angeles, California,

advised

on

March 1, 1961, that his first knowledge of the microphone

incident in Las Vegas, Nevada, came from a telephone call

to him

from a man

in custody at Las Vegas whose name he could

not recall. When given the name Balletti, Cantillion acknowledged

that the name was probably correct but stated that he had no

knowledge of Balletti

prior to the call which

came from a Lieutenant

either from the Clarke County's Sheriff's Office or the Las

Vegas City Jail. He claimed privilege for his conversation

with Balletti but advised

that he referred the caller.to

attorney Tom Foley in Las Vegas. Cantillion stated that he

knew Robert Maheu.

Cantillion denied telephoning or otherwise

contacting Maheu

in Washington, D. C., or elsewhere, to ask

him to perform surveillance on Dan Rowan.

A Bureau memorandum dated March 13, 1961, at Los Angeles,

California, reflects

information concerning James P. Cantillion,

including.

that one John Roselli stayed at the Beverly Hilton

Hotel when he came to Los Angeles and he visits with an attorney,

00J

TOP SECRET

DocId: 32423544 Page 17

---

## Page 18

TOP SECRET

- 12 -

James Cantillion of Beverly Hills, California.

Records of

the Los Angeles, California Police Department reflect that

John Roselli, FBI # 3339986, was first arrested by the Los

Angeles Police Department in 1924 for carrying concealed

weapons, but the charge was dismissed. During the period

from 1924 to 1932, he was arrested on

several occasions on

charges of suspicion of grand larceny, carrying concealed

weapons and robbery. In testimony before the Kefauver

Committee in October 1950, Roselli advised that he met Al

Capone in Chicago and that he spent a day with Capone in

Los Angeles, California, in about 1930.

Records of the

United States District Court indicate that on December 22.

1943, Roselli was

found guilty of violation of Section 402A,

Title 18, U.S.C., and sentenced to 10 years imprisonment.

The charge involved extorting money from motion picture pro-

ducers to insure the studios against labor strikes.

The above report reflects that Cantillion was apparently

involved in business

transactions with Roselli and had been

visited by Roselli and one Louis J. Lederer, a close friend

of Roselli and apparently linked to nationally-known hoodlum

and gambler, Frank Costello, of New York. Cantillion, Lederer

and Roselli were, according to the report, all involved in

hotels and gambling operations in Las Vegas, Nevada.

A Bureau

investigative report dated March 27, 1961, at

washington, D. C. reflects that on January 19 and January 30,

1961, Robert Maheu was interviewed and remained unable to

supply the name of the los Angeles attorney who had originally

contactedshim and requested him to contact Edward Dubois.

DO 1

TOP SECRET

DocId: 32423544 Page 18

---

## Page 19

TOP SECRET

- 13 -

Maheu advised that he had stayed at the Kenilworth Hotel in

Miami Beach during the latter part of October 1960, but

denied

that he had

instructed DuBois to send only one man

to Las Vegas and stated that his only involvement in the

matter was to have DuBois contacted at the request of the Los

Angeles attorney. Maheu identified the J.A. Rollins who was

with him at the Kenilworth Hotel as John A. Rollins

and would

not identify him further, stating Rollins was working indirectly

for him in Miami. Maheu denied that Rollins was the individual

who went to Las Vegas to assist Balletti. Shortly after the

interview, Mr. Maheu telephonically contacted a Special

Agent of the Bureau

at the Washington Field Office, stating

that "he had just received

a telephone call and

if this matter

could be held up for a few days, it would be all straightened

out."

A Bureau report dated April 6, 1961, at Miami, Florida,

reflects that Balletti was interviewed on March 29, 1961 at

which

time

he denied ownership of the technical equipment

confiscated in his hotel room aside from a tape recorder and

cameras.

Balletti stated that he did not recall telling the

arresting officers at Las Vegas that J. W. Harrison was

actually Fred Harris of Miami. Balletti stated that on

October 30 or 31, 1960, he received a long distance telephone

call from Robert Maheu who instructed him to contact I. w.

Richardson

at the New Frontier Hotel. Maheu advised Balletti

TOP SECRET

/ED FROM

Juliala;

101

DocId:32423544 Page 19

---

## Page 20

TOP SECRET

- 14 -

that Richardson would pay him $1,000 and that when Balletti

contacted Richardson giving a password, Richardson gave him

10 one hundred dollar bills in a men's room.

Balletti

again

denied that he knew the true identity of J. W. Harrison.

same report reflects that on March 20, 1961, DuBOis

advised that Robert Maheu had

paid him $1,000 in cash as his

retainer. DuBois claimed that Balletti had told him that on

October 31, 1960, he, Balletti, received a long distance

telephone call from

Maheu who claimed that he was

calling

from Los Angeles and instructed Balletti to contact a Mr.

Richardson and that Richardson would pay him the retainer.

DuBois was

asked

if he knew John A. Rollins and

he stated

that he did

not know

anyone by that name. DuBois was

questioned

regarding the equipment found

in Room 331 of

the Riviera Hotel at the time Balletti was

arrested

and

DuBois denied that any of the technical equipment aside from

the minifon tape recorder and the cameras belonged to his

agency. DuBois

assumed that the equipment belonged to J. W.

Harrison. DuBois reiterated that he did not know the name

of the principal in this case who contacted Maheu to have

the surveillance conducted on Rowan.

A Bureau report dated April 11, 1961 reflects that a

communication from the Washington Field Office dated February 13,

1961, advised that Maheu was still unable to secure permission

from the attorney to divulge the attorney's name to the FBI.

Maheu denied that Rollins was the individual who went to Las

with Balletti, stating that the Kenilworth Hotel records

RECEIVED FROM

JUL 171905.

TOP SECRET

DOI

---

## Page 21

TOP SECRET

- 15 -

in Miami would reflect that Rollins was there during the period

Balletti was

in Las Vegas.

This report reflects that by communication dated March 28,

1961, the Riviera Hotel registration card, which contained the

handwriting

of the unknown subject, also known as J. W. Harrison,

was

submitted to the FBI Laboratory to be compared with the

handwriting on

the registration card from the Kenilworth Hotel

at Miami Beach which bears the name J. A. Rollins.

According to a Bureau investigative report dated April 12,

1961 at Los Angeles, California, Dan Rowan telephonically con-

tacted a special agent of the Bureau on April 5, 1961

at which

time he advised that he did not believe that he had any information

of pertinence to add. Rowan

stated that he first heard of

Sam Giancana from a Lt. Smith with the Clark County Sheriff's

Office, Las Vegas, Nevada and stated that he had never met

Giancana.

Rowan advised that he has discussed

Giancana on

one or two occasions with Phyllis McGuire, observing that she

was hesitant to discuss Giancana and stated that her relation-

ship with him took place long ago and she saw no reason to

discuss it. McGuire stated that Giancana

still sends her gifts

and flowers, but that this is entirely his idea and she has

nothing to do with him.

CIA Involvement

A Bureau memorandum dated April 20, 1961 at Washington,

D.C., reflects that on April 18, 1961, Maheu advised that

following

the recent invasion of Cuba by anti-Castro forces

TOP SECRET

i ROM

UL 18 1965

DOJ

DocId: 32423544 Page 21

---

## Page 22

TOP SECRET

- 16 -

he was now in a position to furnish additional information re-

garding the situation involving the subjects at Las Vegas,

Nevada. At this time, Maheu offered his explanation (set

forth in detail in a previous memorandum concerning Central

Intelligence Agency involvement in this matter) that Rowan's

hotel

room was to be the subject of electronic surveillance

in connection with determining the source of a leak of in-

formation on the part of an individual in the Chicago area.

Maheu stated that his work could be verified by "Shef Edwards",

Colonel Sheffield Edwards, Director of Security, CIA.

The Director of the Bureau advised the Attorney General

by memorandum dated May 22, 1961 that the full investigation

requested in this matter is continuing, although the memo

noted in view of the information regarding CIA's attempted

utilization of the "hoodlum element" in connection with anti-

Castro activities, CIA has requested that this information

be handled on a "need-to-know" basis. The Bureau also

attached to this memorandum the results of an interview on

May 3, 1961 with Colonel Sheffield Edwards, Director of

Security, Central Intelligence Agency, which has previously

been set forth in detail in the memorandum setting forth the

CIA's involvement in this matter.

By communication dated April 11, 1961, the FBI Laboratory

advised that the handwriting on the Kenilworth Hotel, Miami

Beach, registration card and the hand-printed name of J.A.

Rollins was not comparable with the handwriting on the Riviera

ROM

TOP SECRET

DocId: 32423544 Page 22

---

## Page 23

TOP SECRET

- 17 -

Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada, registration card bearing the

signature of J.W. Harrison.

On May 13, 1961, records of the Clark County Sheriff's

Office reflect that the State charges against Arthur James

Balletti were dismissed on April 24, 1961, since the complaining

witness did not desire to prosecute.

A Bureau

investigative report dated June 6, 1961 at

washington, D. C. reflects that on May 25, 1961, Maheu again

advised of his involvement with the Central Intelligence

Agency in connection with their attempt to utilize Giancana

in connection with the CIA's activities against the Castro

government.

Maheu

stated that the original contact with

Giancana was made by "Johnny" who Maheu declined to further

identify. Maheu stated that it was his decision to have

a microphone coverage installed in Rowan's room

and he was

extremely careful

as he did not want to involve the CIA.

Maheu advised that Dubois did not know the CIA's interest in

this matter and in requesting DuBois to handle the assign-

ment, he had

used a pretext indicating to DuBois that

a Los

Angeles, California attorney had made the original request

for coverage of Rowan.

Maheu still denied that he had called

one

Dubois instructing him to send only/man to Los Angeles and

that he, Maheu, would supply the second man.

Maheu sub-

sequently advised that he had sent word to Sam Giancana as

to the extent of the investigation following his Bureau

interview on May 25, 1961.

TOP SECRET

JUl 1218/9

DOJ

DocId: 32423544 Page 23

---

## Page 24

TOP SECRET

- 18 -

An FBI report dated June 26, 1961 at Miami, Florida

reflects that Edward DuBois and Arthur Balletti, after

viewing a photo of John Roselli, said on June 20, 1961 that

they did not recognize him and that they have not been in

contact

with him in

connection with their

investigation of

Rowan at

Las Vegas, Nevada. However, one employee of the Kenilworth

Hotel advised that she believed the photograph of John Roselli

was a

photograph of

J.A. Rollins, but could not make a

positive identification without seeing the man in person.

An FBI report dated June 29, 1961, at Las Vegas, Nevada,

reflects that on June 17, 1961, the manager of the Riviera

Hotel advised that he knows John Roselli by sight and that

so far

as he knew, Roselli had never stayed

at that hotel

and he felt sure that Roselli was not the individual who

checked into the hotel on October 26, 1960, using the name

J.W. Harrison.

According to a Bureau investigative report dated June 30,

1961, at Los Angeles, Robert Maheu advised

on June 29, 1961

that the "Johnny" to whom he made contact with Sam Giancana

was John Roselli and that he discussed the plan to wire Rowan's

room with Roselli before it was done.

It was pointed out to

Maheu that the explanation he gave in a previous

interview

for wiring Rowan's room did not appear logical and was far

removed from the purpose for which he was hired by the Central

Intelligence Agency. Maheu stated that he would stick to the

explanation previously given and wished to add that he would

never

have ordered Rowan's room wired except for his connection

with the CIA.

i in dad do i if to it

.101.

1112

TOP SECRET

DocId: 32423544 Page 24

---

## Page 25

TOP SECRET

- 19 -

An FBI investigative report dated July 19, 1961, at

Chicago, reflects that Samuel M. Giancana was interviewed

at O'Hare International Airport, Chicago, on July 12, 1961

by special agents of

the Bureau

and he refused to make any

comment regarding Maheu and

refused to admit that he was

acquainted with Dan Rowan. In the course of the interview,

Giancana became very

abusive

and obscene.

During this time,

Miss Phyllis McGuire, who apparently traveled with Giancana,

was also interviewed by special agents of the Bureau, although

the results of that

interview were not reflected. The

special agents' conversation with Giancana was terminated upon

the appearance of Miss McGuire. Giancana left accompanied by

Miss McGuire.

An FBI report dated July 20, 1961 at Los Angeles, Cali-

fornia, reflects that Maheu was interviewed on July 15, 1961

and persisted in his story with respect to the bugging of

Rowan's hotel room. Maheu denied that the installation of

the device in Rowan's room was made at the request or for

the benefit of Sam Giancana or

John Roselli.

The same report reflects that Roselli was interviewed

on July 7, 1961, and admitted that he had known Maheu for

approximately 5 years. When asked if he knew Giancana, Roselli

stated, "Let's discuss the weather. I do not care to answer

any more questions."

On August 2, 1961, United States Attorney Howard W.

Babcock, at Las Vegas, Nevada, advised that he is not certain

that it could be proven that any information received by

Balletti and the unknown subject was ever "disseminated" and also

2915

TOP SECRET

DocId: 32423544 Page 25

---

## Page 26

TOP SECRET

- 20 -

he was very concerned about the possibility of information

becoming known of Robert Maheu performing work for the CIA.

By letter dated October 13, 1961, Mr. Babcock noted

that his successor

assumes office on October 16, 1961

and,

therefore, felt it appropriate that his successor review the

file and investigative reports.

In response to a request from the Criminal Division

dated January 31, 1962, the Bureau ascertained from the

Director of Security of the Central Intelligence Agency, Col.

Sheffield Edwards, that his Agency would object to any

prosecution which would necessitate the use of CIA personnel

or CIA information and that

the introduction of any evidence

concerning the CIA operation would be most

embarrassing

to

the United States Government. This Bureau reply was dated

February 9, 1962.

In response to an additional request from the Criminal

Division dated March 19, 1962, the Bureau replied, by memo-

randum dated April 10, 1962, that Col. Edwards advised that

Maheu's

prosecution undoubtedly would lead to exposure of

most sensitive information relating to the abortive Cuban

invasion in April 1961 and in view of this, his Agency ob-

jects to the prosecution of Maheu.

By memorandum dated April 24, 1962, Mr. Herbert J.

Miller, JI., Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division,

advised the Attorney General that it is

clear that the

national interest will preclude any prosecution resulting from

the Nevada wiretap case, adding at the conclusion of the memo

that prosecutiye action will he declined.

TOP SECRET

is 171315

00J

DocId: 32423544 Page 26

---

## Page 27

Dais:

To:

Cötober Is, isco

director

Central Intelligenge agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

From:

John Edgar Hoover, Director

Subject. 7

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

INTERUAL SECUNITY - CUBA

The following intornation has been reported by

source whose relianility lins not been tested but wio is

to sotain intormation concorning the activities

of santed i. triancana, well-known racketeer IrOn LiCa&0,

illinois:

According to the source, during recent conversation

with several iricies, fiancana statec that fidel castro was to

be done away with very shoruly. when doubt was espressed

regarding tas staichne diancana reportedly assured those

present that Costro's assassination would occur in lovender.

roreover, he allegoaly incicaied that ic had already met wit

so assassin-to-ue on three occasions,

the last meeting ta ing

ce on a boat docked at the lontainblean Hotel, man •each,

Bonortody, Glancaza claired that every ns assassia"s

boch perfeciod for tns killing of Casury and that the

sat arranged with a girl, not further duscribed, to drop a

I, not tur has

'will" in some drink or lood of Castro's.

The source further advised that Giancana reportedly

staied that castro is in the aavanced stages of syphilis and

is not compleïcly rational.

icare marin? erforts to obtain

additional information concerning these alicgations, which

have not bech substantiated, and recipient agencies will be,

rept advised of any additional pertinent cata received.

1- uffice of Security

_Department of State

JUL.171005

) 0J

Doc1d:32423544 Page 27

---

## Page 28

Pirecior

Contral intelligence Agency

i - Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence

Departient o1 the

ArIy

Attention: Chief, Security Division

1- prico of upecial investigations

Air Force

Attention: Chied, Counterintelligeace Division

¿ - Director of. laval intelligence

1- ASSiStant AttOrney Veneral

•I.

rascar Yeagloy

Rohin

JUL 17J31

0 01

2

DocId: 32423544

Page 28

---

## Page 29

te 92t

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25. D. C.

FILE

14 May 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT: Arthur James Balletti 'et al - Unauthorized Publication

or Use of Communications

1. This memorandum for the record is prepared at the

request of the Attorney General of the United States following a

complete oral briefing of him relative to a sensitive CIA operation

conducted during the period approximately August 1960 to May

1961. In August 1960 the undersigned was approached by Mr.

Richard Bissell then Deputy Director for Plans of ClA to explore

the possibility of mounting this sensitive operation against Fidel

Castro. It was thought that certain gambling interests which had

formerly been

active in Cuba might be willing and able to assist

and further, might have both intelligence assets in Cuba and

communications between Miami, Florida and Cuba.

Accordingly,

Mr. Robert Maheu, a private investigator of the firm of Maheu

and King was approached by the undersigned and asked to establish

contact with a member or members of the gambling syndicate to •

explore their capabilities. Mr.

Maheu was known to have accounts

FILE

N. B.

with several prominent business men and organizations in the

FILE

N B.

United States. Maheu was to make his approach to the syndicate

as appearing to represent big business organizations which wished

to protect their interests in Cuba.

Mr. Maheu accordingly met

and established contact with one John Rosselli of Los Angeles.

Mr. Rosselli showed interest in the possibility and indicated he

had some contacts in Miami that he might use. Maheu reported

that John Rosselli said he was not interested in any remuneration

but would seek to establish capabilities in Cuba to perform the

desired project. Towards the end of September Mr. Maheu and

Mr. Rosselli proceeded to Miami where, as reported, Mahey was

introduced to Sam Giancana of Chicago. Sam Giancana arranged &2-4'6-5

for Makey and Rospelli to meet with a "courier" who was goineback fustice

JUL 171915

FiLE

22

JUN 27 1962

51201130

N. Ba

R

D

ipy lio.

of

FuT?

Page L of 3-pages

03314

RECORDS GNANCH

ATTORNEY GENERAL

DocId: 32423544 Page 29

---

## Page 30

TOP SE6727

EVES CALY

and forth to Havana. From information received back by the

courier the proposed operation appeared to be feasible and it

was decided to obtain an official Agency approval in this regard.

A figure of one hundred fifty thousand dollars was set by the Agency

as a payment to be made on completion of the operation and to be

paid only to the principal or principals who would conduct the

operation in Cuba. Maheu reported that Rosselli and Giancana

emphatically stated that they wished no part of any payment. The

undersigned then briefed the proper senior officials of this Agency

on the proposal. Knowledge of this project during its life was kept

to a total of six persons and never became a part of the project !!

current at the time for the invasion of Cuba and there were no

memoranda on the project nor were there other written documents

or agreements. The project was duly orally approved by the said

senior officials of the Agency.

2. Rosselli and Maheu spent considerable time in Miami

talking with the courier. Sam Giancana was present during parts

of these meetings. Several months after this period Maheu told me

that Sam Giancana had asked him to put a listening device in the

room of one Phyllis McGuire, reported to be the mistress of Giancana.

At that time it was reported to me that Maheu passed the matter

over to one Edward Du Boise, another private investigator. It

appears that Arthur James Balletti was discovered in the act of

installing the listening device and was arrested by the Sheriff in

Las Vegas, Nevada. Maheu reported to me that he had referred

the matter to Edward Du Boise on behalf of Sam Giancana.

At the

time of the incident neither this Agency nor the undersigned knew

of the proposed technical installation. Maheu stated that Sam

Giancana thought that Phyllis McGuire might know of the proposed

operation and might pass on the information to one Dan Rowan,

another friend of McGuire's. At the time that Maheu reported this

to the undersigned he reported he was under surveillance by agents

of the Federal Burean of Investigation, who, he thought. were

exploring his association with John Rosselli and Sam Giancana

incident to the project. I told Maheu that if he was formally ap-*

proached by the FBI, he could refer them to me to be briefed that

he was engaged in an intelligence operation directed at Cuba.

3. During the period from September on through April

efforts were continued by Rosselli and Maheu to proceed with the

operation,, The first principal in Cuba withdrew and another principal

"rui

JUL 18 1915

DOJ

75 # 101$86

BS CIV

108003 pages

_0_2

Doc1d: 32423544 Page 30

---

## Page 31

TUF SeG.:1

EVIS

was selected as has been briefed to The Attorney General. Ten

thousand dollars was passed for expenses to the second principal.

He was further furnished with approximately one thousand dollars

worth of communications equipment to establish communications

between his headquarters in Miami and assets in Cuba. No

monies were ever paid to Rosselli and Giancana. Maheu was

paid part of his expense money during the periods that he was in

Miami. After the failure of the invasion of Cuba word was sent

through Maheu to Rosselli to call off the operation and Rosselli

was told to tell his principal that the proposal to pay one hundred

fifty thousand dollars for completion of the operation had been

definitely withdrawn.

4. In all this period it has been definitely established from

other sources that the Cuban principals involved never discovered

or believed that there was other than business and syndicate interest

in the project. To the knowledge of the undersigned there were no

"leaks" of any information concerning the project in the Cuban

community in Miami or in Cuba.

5. I have no proof but it is my conclusion that Rosselli

and Giancana guessed or assumed that CIA was behind the project.

I never met either of them.

6. Throughout the entire period of the project John Rosselli

was the dominant figure in directing action to the Cuban principals.

Reasonable monitoring of his activities indicated that he gave his

best efforts to carrying out the project without requiring any com-

mitments for himself, financial or otherwise.

7. In view of the extreme sensitivity of the information

set forth above, only one additional copy of this memorandum has

been made and will be retained by the Agency.

JUL 181915

DOJ

BIES CUM

TO Page 3 01 3 pages

15 1 101486

copy io. L

DocId: 32423544

Page 31

---

