JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
* PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Date:

Agency Information

FBI
124-90025-10019

HQ

CR 165-392-30

6/3/2015

Document Information
FBI

HQ

03/20/1962
6

ISADORE MILLER
WILLIAM MEADOR SMITH

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified i"

4

Redact

12/29/1997

INDEFINITE

RPT

v9
Docld:32324176 Page 1

13


ci : é cee ] ‘
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION / y
fi

Reporting Otfice a ‘bas wean Date Investigative Period
DALLAS \ DALLAS ee 3/20/62 2/8/62 ~
: a

‘TITLE OF CASE ‘treed
CHANGED “@ N SA ROBERT M, BARRETT 1
WILLIAM MEADOR SMITH, aka. CHARACTER OF CASE
"Boston" Smith; - =
REBA ODELL-PRESTON ; a ITWI; ITAR - BRIBERY, GAMBLING ;
BILL D. JOHNSON; : ITWI - CONSPIRACY; IT, =.

E. DAVID{DICKSON, aka. "sig"; \ 4 BRIBERY; GAMBLING = CONSPIRACY
UNKNOWN SUBJECTS arnt aed
‘Bynopsis: ae Ee
Lo Title marked changed to show full name of subject 39
/. PRESTON as REBA“ODELL PRESTON as determined through investigation ce
Pi at Waco, Texas, and to show nickname of subject DICKSON as "Sig" 4
4 as determined through investigation at Dallas, Texas. Title
. forperly carried as "ONSUBS; BRIBERY OF SWC BASKETBALL OFFICIALS,
ote ITWI, ITAR - BRIBERY".
Z :
a New Haven airtels to Bureau, 2/14; 3/6/62. ai
Dallas teletypes to Bureau, 2/19,20,27; 3/3/62.'.~ ‘
San Antonio teletypes to Bureau, 2/20; 3/5,6/62. fat
Dallas teletype to San Antonio, 3/5/62 (Interoffice). Wey
Dallas teletype to Miami, New York and San Antonio RA
3/15/62 (Interoffice) . a
Dallas teletype to New York, 3/9/62 (Interoffice) bul
Bureau airtel to Dallas, 2/20/62, <>-/ L
San Antonio airtels to Bureau, 2/21,28; 3/2/62.
Dallas airtels to Bureau, 2/22; 3/1,7,8,15/62.
Milwaukee airtel to Dallas, 2/28/62 (Interoffice) .
8}. Louis airtel to Bureau, 3/1/62, &, tf a
Approved brani
Coples made :

(SER NEXT PAGE)

(DALLAS 165-29) 5:

2 ce ALG
Form 0-6 _.

Property of FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBL
tues. 6

‘either it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loam

MNT PRINTING OFFICE: 1988 0—344750

Docld:32324176 Page 2


es

DL 165-29

4q ened formation previdusly obtained from DL-144-C* that

J ELY{GTONE's ‘Dallas bookmaking operation, biggest in the area,
will not. accept any straight bet in amount over..$500 on SWC

game, but will accept bet:on any other game,:except West Coast,
in any. amount.

On 2/12,1: ; DL=~95~C. advised .SA. ROBERT. M, BARRETT
that. gambler CURTI ‘AGER (Dl. 162-176) had recently. won from
Dallas bookies’ on 14 games, and had told CI he had won on
information he was getting from Waco, texas, unnamed source, later
identified only -as "PAT"’.. On. 2/12/62 CI accompanied: YEAGER to
Waco, met 2 men, one named "PARKER", one unnamed... YEAGER gave
unnamed man $2500: cash, no reason given. CI also stated these three
had much discussion re SMU - Texas Tech, to be played 2/13/62 at
Lubbock. On. 2/13/62, CI advised YEAGER had told CI point. spread

on this game had jumped from Texas Tech, as 8 point favorite to
Texas Tech as 12 point favorite. YEAGER was betting heavily

on SMU with unknown Dallas bookies; CI stated. SMU: would lose
by.-less. than:.12, or evenwin. : SMU won 68-63... Game. refereed :
by. BOBBY’ SCOTT and. STE’ ERGENI, both residents of Amarillo, i
Texas, %

hyso2

Yom 2/19/62, pacar YEAGER and his assocate, 3
Dallas gambler WELDON N ATHERALL, .were in contact with Waco :
phone, prefix unknown, 3-9310. Phone. number at Waco Elks Club
is PL 9310. On 2/25/62, CI met YEAGER. and man.from-Waco named -

62 TO) S. or BONDS = not identical with either of 2 seen

Ao with YEAGER-at-Waco:2/12/62. BARNES returned to Waco night. of
2/26/62. YEAGER told CI he had 2. games of. 2/27/62, "fixed" -
the SMU - Baylor game. at Waco. and. the Texas Tech - A&M game at
Lubbock. lets ame. refereed by PRYOR and MC. ALISTER, the Lubbock
game by. W. | WSON ; 525°E. North. 20th Stre
BOBB'  9g07-S--Roosevelt,. Amara iio. Tex 3

Later on. 2/26/62, CI advied YEAGER called. someone
‘at. Waco, believed-to. ‘be: "PAT", about 30 pm... Twenty. minutes a
later "PAT" called-Dallas bookie -DO TON, wanting. .to bet
vheavily on T Tech.’ YEAGER in. meantime was placing bets
> with: several: Dallas bookies on Tech. YEAGER "guaranteed" CI
: that Tech would. win by more than. point spread - 64 -points.
Tech won 69-49, . YEAGER also placed bets..on SMU, which was 9
point.favorite. . SMU: won 69-52.

On. 2/27/62,..information received from PCI ae
Dallas: gambler by. SA WILL HAYDEN ,GRIFFIN,. that. something was
"wrong" with. Rice = TCU. game to. be played that night. Rice

* : -H- y

COVER PAGE

Docld:32324176 Page 3


DL 165-29

ROGAS, Marlin, Texas bookmaker. On 3/7/62 photographs of PRESTON
and. PARKS shown to. DL-95-C by SA ROBERT M,. BARRETT and he: advises
PRESTON unknown tohim but PARKS is identical with PARKER who was
present at Waco night of. 2/12/62 when Dallas gambler’ CURTIS YEAGER
gave PARKS’ associate,. yet. unidentified, $2500 in ‘cash following
weekend during which YEAGER had bet and won heavily on SWC games
with Dallas bookies, placing pete based on information:.received -
from "PAT" at Waco.

On 3/1/62, PCI JOHN GEORGE. GEORGACAKIS. advised SAs
J. JEROME ‘MAXWELL: and STUART J. .CAMERON that .SWC basketball games .
had been taken off: the board at Las Vegas, no bets were. being
accepted on these games in amounts: of more than. $50 to $100 and ~
bets were being taken only: from players. in the room at the time
the bet was made. PCI. stated his Las Vegas source had indicated
Las Vegas had received word No Texas that games: were fixed.

AL

On. 3/5/62, information obtained from DL-144-C* who
is furnishing pertinent current information about the gambling.
activities of Dallas bookmaking .operation under the direction |
of,JOHN ELI.STONE (DL onlin and‘his employees: in this

Xia HENRY CLINTORMWINFREY (DL 162-95) and “ISADORE wax eras

(DL..162-96). On 3/5/62, WINFREY, in conversation with i
ndividual. known only as "PETE". remarked that SWC games. had
"cost them $20,000",. WINFREY stated there was "no doubt: about : ;
one of the referees getting. greedy and betting $6600 in New H
Yor®", WINFREY further stated there were "two referees" involved.
In another conversation same date. with unknown party while
referring to récent publicity concerning this matter in the
local: papers. and in particular reference to the referees,
WINFREY stated that they "cost us $20,000 this year. One of
these damn referees bet $6600 hisself in New York. on a game.
he refereed. Yeah, he won it = They haven't lost any bets".
“Those crooks. in South Texas pulled a fast one'!; "I know
BOSTON SMITH handled their damn contract =", "I think it: was
BOSTON that..put $5500 on certain ones = maybe 11 on some of
them"; "Most of the big books in the East. took the Southwest
Conference off the boards two years ago. So its been going
on for a little while".

On 2/28/62, San Antonio furnished information that
subject PRESTON had been in telephonic contact with Dallas
phone LA 6-2814 on 12/13/61, 1/19 and 2/5/62. This is the
phone number of subject DICKSON at Apt. 108, 4807. Denton
Drive, where DICKSON is also the Manager of: this apartment
building.

Docld:32324176 Page 4


Cg
DL 165-29

On 3/12/62, LT. JACK REVILL, Dallas PD, a.former
college basketball player in the State of Texas, advised he
seemed to recall that subject "SIG" DICKSON was a former.
player at Baylor University and it. was also believed by
LT. REVILL to be an associate. of GEORGE OWENS, .OWENS is
known to bet heavily on basketball: games. through information
received from DL-144-C*, is the present manager of the
University Club, Dallas, the former boy friend of now imprisoned
Dallas stripper CANDY BARR and. is a former basketball-player
at SMU,

| fexas
i On. 3/14/62, . GEO! NS was interviewed. by: SAs.
» ROBERT M,: BARRETT and ROBERT P. GEMBERLING at his residence,
Apt. 302, 2531 Turtle Creek, He furnished the following
pertinent information. Hé has known SIG DICKSON. for about a
year, having met him throu is, OWENS', close friend,
: Dallas gambler WILLIAM VIS (subject of Dallas file
: 47-3937)... He stated DIC was a former. basketball player
felazat Baylor, presently is managing an apartment house at.,4807-
& Denton:Dr.. OWENS last saw DICKSON about 5 days ago. at which time.
e DicKso told him that he, DICKSON,.was also. working for some.
"New York Jews" in connection with the managing of some. apart-
ment houses to be built in the Dallas area, (These "New York
Jews". possibly identical with persons in New York ‘City known to
: e. been contacted by lgphone. by. DICKSON suc -CHARLES .N.
STEIN. and LEONARD. SsXOPPENHEIMER. BILLY RAYDAVIS was Vex
Phi Ariz. and: Miami, :Fla.. in January 1962, the purpose. of ::
his trip being to gamble by~playing poker, OWENS stated there
is'a $300 limit -on any: bet ‘on SWC game. in las. OWENS stated
he placed most .of his bets. with ISADORE IILLER. (DL. 162-96) ,
employee: of JOHN ELI. STONE (DL 162-37). - OWENS. stated. he has
never received any information from DICKSON or: anyone else. that
any SWC games were fixed or how to. bet. He has heard rumors
for several years that SWC games were fixed but. had no further
definite information concerning this. OWENS furnished the above
information, requesting ‘that. his identity be. protected and that =. a
he. would assist the FBI in their investigation in any. way
possible so long as his identity was kept confidential.

On. 3/12/62, DL-95-C advised SA ROBERT M.. BARRETT that
- gambler WELDON N.. WEATHERALL, FBI #39541, when in Dallas stayed
at the Belmont. Motel on Fort Worth AVENUE.

Docld:32324176 Page 5
