JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES =

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
‘PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
* RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10199-10022

HQ

92-3171-1708

Document Information

FBI
SAC, PH
DIRECTOR, FBI

06/22/1965
1

SGI, ASSOC, MAGUIRE, PHYLLIS.

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

03/11/1998

INDEFINITE,

vod
Docld: 32288246 Page 1

190


| PD+36 (Rev. 5-22-64) b

I FBI
| Date: 6/22/65

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL
Via
H (Priority)
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)
chew Lips: SAC, PHZLADELPHIA (92-907)
SUBJECT: SAMUEL GIANCANA, aka \
Sean pe ie
a
yr beo/3h
Re Bureau airtel 6/21/65. \J I /
The source furnishing information concerning '
GIANCANA is a PCI of this office who is a member of ie
Reverend M.J, DIVINE's Movement, known only “HAPPY LOVE," i
HAPPY obtains, her information from a very clo! “personal . oe
friend, ENICEYJOVE, a maid employed by _P. GUIRE at 7
Wye. J a DIVINE follower and is not Awa ad I. :
HAPPY is cooperating with this office. At HAPPY's request_.<
her relationship with this office is not to. be disclosed to ] :
anyone, ") i
HAPPY lives in NYC, is in daily contact with ON L
Philadelphia, and spends each weekend in Philadelphia. She aleticeey
is aware of the Bureau's active and continuing interest in
GIANCANA and will immediately advise this office of any
information coming to her attention. () {
There is no additional TT AINE at Philadelphia
frat, this tame.) ) All : :
falas H |
leisy D \
(@3- Bureau (92+ et a
1- ‘Chicago. (92-' 8
Y 2- Philadelphia
+. l= 92-907
: 1= 137-4333 a
JAV/nn
(6) i
rg EF Wick py ENO
<a OGUUL EZ he)
Approved: —
: Special Agent in Charge

Docld:32288246 Page 2
