JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10282-10019
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2914-122, 123
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, PG
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 04/21/1961
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
GM, ASSOC, GAMBLING, B/F INT, RES
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/14/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : INC A/T

v9.t
DoclId:32302507 Page 1

31


FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56) : : : 7

2 | CC

\
|
I
I
\
I
FBI i
I
\
Date: |
itt 4/21/61 I
Transmit the following in : |
: : 7 (Type in plain text or code) 7 i
: AIRTEL : i
Via 4
~(Priority or Method of Mailing) H
L

TO:, DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2914) ((2-2918)
FROM: SAC, i (92-236) ((2- ~238)
SUBJECT: GABRIEL MANNARINO, aka.

AR

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka.
- AR :

ae on 4/19/61 FG ae @ advised SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III,

as follows:

ANDY MANGINI, who helps manage the Mannarino owned gambling
casino at 1195 Fifth Ave., New Kensington, Pa., and who
has acted as a "strong-arm collector and enforcer," is

_ building a new house in. the Rossmont Plan. This area

is located near the New Greenwald Grade School on Leech-
burg Road, New Kensington, Pa., and all of these houses
cost $35,000 and up. At the same time, MANGINI will

have a backyard swimming pool installed by VICTOR
STANZIANO, local pool contractor.

Also, KELLY MANNARINO has made a deal with STANZIANO to
install a.20 foot by 40 foot swimming pool at his.
cottage on RD #3, Leechburg, Pa.”

on 4/20/61 SA FORSYTH personally observed the Roesmont
Plan of homes ‘in New Kensington and noted that only eight
homes are built and being lived in and one house is under
construction, The latter is at the stage where it is
under roof and is being insulated. Neighbors and workmen
did not know for whom the house was being built.

Pittsburgh will attempt to learn exactly where MANGINI's
house will be located in the Rossmont Plan. © eiericces

BOTH SUBJECT SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

z

oe
p ae Grose 14) REC- 33 ye
<3. : Pe 3 APR 22 1961

ONRECORDED COPY FILED [K Ge a GLE —

)
4), TGF:HKK (9)
Sent
: agent in Charge 7

DocId:32302507 Page 2



FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56) :
© oO)
: PBI

Date; . 4/24/61

Transmit the following in

(Type'in plain text or code)?

él AIRTEL i
ia
fe “(Priority or Method of Mailing) :
Pg ee ee ee a a ae ee g IngSESESESsz5s0npstapsagecnesseres
a2 . ;
To: Director, FBI (92-2914) (92-2918) : !
From: SAC, Pittsburgh (92-236) (92- 228) ietietl
| Subject: GABRTELHANNARINO, aka ; eal
i : AR. :
x} SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka :
\ . AR ;

_ Remyairtel 4/21/61.

- On 4/2461, the neighborhood source in the vicinity of
‘.- the MANNARINO cottage on RD #3, Leechburg, Pa., advised
: . that liti@e activity was observed at the cottage from
- 4/21-24/61. The caretaker and the dogs were observed
eee .from time to time but no visitors showed up, possibly
_ due to the almost incessant. rainfall during the week end.

“on 4/24/61, PCI JOSEPH GEORGE, New Kensington, Pa.,
advised that he had received information that GABRIEL
MANNARINO is the owner of a trucking company by the name
of MANNORReal Estate and Trucking, Buckhorn Hotel, Mari
Pa. He said this trucking company is jokingly referred
to as B & G@ Trucking Company, the B & @ standing fory
Bullets and Grenades.

oS

ERIE, PA. Resident Agency

At Marionsville, Forest foe HEC. gg : i}

Be Bureau ae 2g)
i

3-92-2918
9 a

: gy 92-228), - tye ; cicuman pee i
: Si ecial Agent In Charge K
a Canny WOT RSET y

DocId:32302507 Page 3
