# docid-32293039-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10210-10315

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-2713-164, 165

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LALLIER, R. O.

TO:

BELMONT, A. H.

TITLE:

DATE: 04/28/1961

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

CM, DEPORTED, RETURN TO US, FALSE BIRTH RECORD,

LIAISON, INS, INFT, NCK, NEG

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/04/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO, S/S

v9.1

15

---

## Page 2

OPENAL FORM NES 10

UNITED STATES GOVER MENT

Memorandum

TO

28. A. H. Bao lon

DATE: May 2, 1961

FROM

R. 0. L'ALLIER

Tolson

Parsons

Mohr -

Belmont

*Jonra

O8 DeL oac

Rosen

Tavel

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy

SUBJECT:

CARLOS MARCELLO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Kiss

My enclosed memorandum to you dated 4/28/61 reported

results of discussion on 4/27/61 between Liaison Representative

and Carl Wack, Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) con-

cerning situation wherein Marcello, notorious New Orleans hoodlum,

is now trying to get back to U.S. from Guatemala where he was

deported 4/4/61 by INS on basis of Guatemalan birth record

subsequently revealed to be false.

No comment was made by Liaison

Representative when certiformant to this ma ser because kilby

went to Guatemala in 1956 with Carl Irvingwoll. (Noll has aamitted

being invorved In fabricating Marcello's birth record in 1950.)

Regarding Wack's suggestion kilby is our informant as za false

birth record Director asked "Is he? H."

Kilby is not Bureau informant in this matter Our

informant is Raymond Rolling, associate of Marcello and an

informant of New Orleans Division.

Only reference to Kilby in

Bureau files reflects that when we interviewed him on 5/29/58 he

told us he never associated with Noll; that he knew Noll made

trips to Guatemala; and that they talked about selling slot machines

there.

Kilby also said that when he knew Noll, he heard discussions

and rumors regarding acquisition of Guatemalan citizenship by

Marcello (62-302-33-4)

ACTLUN:

For information.

gonit for

JNF: sap (7) Bab

rarsons

1-Mr':

Rosen

1-Mr. Belmont

• 1-Mr. Gunderson

1- Liaison Section

1-Mr. Papich

Enclosure de

68 MAY 8 - 1961

REG- 73

9=2215-108

5 1961

---

