# docid-32287401

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10197-10177

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-9-29-502

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/23/1962

3

CIP, WEEKLY SUMMARY, INDELICATO, JOSEPH, ANTHONY,

ASSOC, INFORMANTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32287401

Page

1

19

---

## Page 2

• FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

* V

D,

FBI

Transmit the following in

Via

yst

Date:

3/23/62

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

FROM:

RE:

SAC, MIAMI (92-515)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

Weekly Summary

JOHN H. OLIVER, PCI, on 3/20/62, advised he received

information that JOSEPH ANTHONY INDELICATO (Miami File 92-404)

told JOE STRAUSS, a bookmaker who resides in the Beaux Arts

Apartments, North Bay Village, Fla., that MARVIN SHULMAN, one

of the builders of that apartment, was starting construction

on a new apartment building at Miami Beach. INDELICATO also

told STRAUSS that he was going to see SHULMAN about getting

his cigarette machines in this new apartment building. On

3/21/62, PCI OLIVER observed INDELICATO and SHULMAN conversing

together at the Beaux Arts Apartments boat docks.

MM 675-C, on 3/21/62, advised that HAROLD SOLOMON,

who operates a bail bond business at Miami Beach, has been mak-

ing a large number of bonds regardless of the risk, and conse-

quently has been suffering some heavy losses. He also advised

that he heard SOLOMON is indebted to MAX JASCOWITZ, aka Max .

Jasco, a shylock; that SOLOMON makes a bail bond for anyone

sent by JOSEPH INDELICATO (Miami File 92-404) and it is rundred

that INDELICATO has some interest in this bail bond operation.

Bureau (AM)

2 - Miami

RFF: anc

(5)

200

62-9-29-502

26 MAR 27_1962

6 0 APRE.

196

Approved: -

- Sent

M Per

Special Agon Walterse

"DocId: 32287401 Page 2

Mi. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr..

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans &4

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan.

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy

---

## Page 3

.. FD-36.(Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

MM 92-515

RAMON BRAVO, PCI, on 3/5/62, advised that MANNING

SHERMAN, a card shark who operates in the card room of the

Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach, with MAX EDER (Miami File

vin the a

92-467) on occasions wears on his person an electrical device

operated by batteries which is used to signal to another in

a card game.

On 3/20/62, JOHN H. OLIVER, PCI, advised that CHARLES

TOURINE (Miami File

92-106) returned to his Miami residence at

the Beaux Arts Apartments on 3/15/62 from London, England.

On 3/23/62, SANTOS TRAFFICANTE of Tampa, Fla., (Miami

File 92-88) was observed having dinner with JOHN PHILLIP CERONE

(Miami File 92-767) and ROCCO FISCHETTI (Miami File 92-140),

both of Chicago, Ill., and 4 other unidentified males and 3

unidentified females in Puccini"s Restaurant, Miami. This is

the first time TRAFFICANTE has been placed in contact with

the Chicago group.

JOHN H. OLIVER, PCI, also advised that Mrs. SHIRLEY

CAMPO has left her husband, EUGENIO STEFANO CAMPO, Miami File

92-586) and plans to secure a divorce. He advised she moved

to the Sea N Sun Motel, North Bay Village, Fla., until 3/14/62

when she left and her present whereabouts are unknown.

- 2 -

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

M

Per

"DocId: 32287401 Page 3

---

## Page 4

FD-36, (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

MM 92-515

MM 807-C, on 3/16/62, advised that he received in-

formation that HERSHIE LAFF (Miami File 165-10) recontacted

LEONARD LOWENSTEIN, the Vice President of the Silver Key Golf

and Country Club, on 3/13 or 14/62, to determine whether

LOWENSTEIN wald accept his offer of securing capital from his

friends to be invested in the construction of this club. Ac-

cording to his information LOWENSTEIN turned down LAFF's offer.

This source also advised on the same date that FRANK

DIOGUARDI (Miami

File 92-405) subleased his, ANGELO's Restaurant,

for one year to his chèf, ROGER CURCI, who put up $5,000.00 as

security and is to pay DIOGUARDI $150.00 a week until the sum-

mer months, at which time a portion of the security will be

used as payments to DIOGUARDI.

MM 808-C* was developed to provide coverage as to

EDWARD J. McGRATH (Miami File 92-82).

- 3 -

Approved:

Sent

_ M

Per -

Special Agent in Charge

'DocId: 32287401 Page 4

---

