# docid-32561564

## Page 1

"-41 (Rev" 3-5-62)

2: 1344

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad .

DeLoach

Evans

•Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy,

Radio

*x Teletype

URGENT

6-8-62

10:27 PM EDST

- JTA.

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM

SAC, PHILADELPHIA:

082330

ANGELO BRUNO, AKA; ARO DAILY. PH 6114-C-TE REPORTED ANGELO

BRUNO ON JUNE 7 MET WITH PAT MASSI, FORMER ASSOCIATE OF MARCO

REGINELLI, CAMDEN, NO Jo, LOU LALLI, FORMER NUMBER BACKER,

PHILADELPHIA, AND PRESENTLY IN JUKE BOX BUSINESS PHILADELPHIA,

JOHN (CASABLANCA:) SIMONE, TRENTON, No Jo, HOODLUM; AND NICHOLAS

PICCOLO, PHILADELPHIA NUMBER BACKER AT 740 CHRISTIAN STREET.

PURPOSE

OF MEETING NOT KNOWN. SIMONE DID BRING FROM TRENTON,

No Joo 50 WEDDING INVITATIONS WHICH HE DISTRIBUTED AMONG THOSE

GOING TO 740 CHRISTIAN STREET. A DAUGHTER OF "JIMMY BROWN, "

TRUE NAME UNKNOWN, IS TO BE MARRIED JULY 1, 1962, TRENTON,

No Ja BRUNO WAS SCHEDULED TO MEET WITH FRANK BLINKY PALERMO

BETWEEN 4 PM AND 5 PM, AT A LOCAL RESTAURANT AND BRUNO DID MEET

MAX "WILLY" WEISBERG AT SAME RESTAURANT AS WEISBERG AND BRUNO

DEPARTED TOGETHER APPROXIMATELY 6:05 PM. (PH 623-0% WAS AWARE

BRUNO'S APPOINTMENT WITH PALERMO FOR 2 PM, JUNE 7, 1962. SOURCE

ALSO CONFIRMED WEISBERG MEETING WITH BRUNO SAME DATE. PURPOSE

EACH MEETING UNKNOWN THIS TIME TO BOTH SOURCES. BRUNO

CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED::

10:38 PM

RN

EX-105 REC-10

BOUN

18

9-00

98--2717-583

•JUN 12 1962

cili

i ! need f

ce Green

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32561564 Page 1

---

