JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90038-10007
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 92-4930-6
Document Information

ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: DL
TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: — 12/08/1960

PAGES: 21

SUBJECTS :

JAMES HENRY DOLAN
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/27/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

Docld:32325818 Page 1



DL 92-292

HOUSTON, SAN ANTONIO, EL PASO, ALBUQUERQUE, OKLAHOMA CITY, LITTLE
ROCK,~AND NEW ORLEANS ~ INFORMATION iesiilines! -

; LEADS

| _ “Information copies furnished to Houston, San-Antonio,
El Paso, Albuquerque’, Oklahoma City, Little Rock and’New Orleans
since it appears subject 'may be of interest to such offices
due to his travels. : : ia

DALLAS:
AT DALLAS, TEXAS

Will continue to obtain current information concerning |
activities of DOLAN through informants, Police Department sources,
telephone calls and otherwise. Will contact existing informants
who"may -have ‘knowledge of DOLAN's activities and attempt to :
-establish additional informants. 4

ADMINISTRATIVE
INFORMANT COVERAGE

Presently utilized by Dallas Office are the following
who are believed to be in a position to furnish information
re subject, his associates and activities: :
DL-91-C
DL-95-C
PCI HUGH C. FOWLER, Dallas *
NO0-1139-¢ :

a. IDENTITY ‘OF INFORMANTS °

DL T-1 is HUGH c. FOWLER, booking agent, Commercial ,
T Building, Dallas, Texas, contacted by SA MANNING C.-GLEMENTS.

‘DL 1-2 48 DL-91-¢, contaeted by SA ALFRED D. NEELEY.

DL T-3 is C. F. NOWLIN, Assistant Vice President,
Mercantile National Bank, Dallas, Texas, contacted by SA MANNING -
: C. CLEMENTS . : : ‘ 5

NO T-1 1s NO-1139-C, contacted by SA REGIS L. KENNEDY.

The above informants have furnished reliable information
in the. past. ~ Oo .

‘ By letter dated 10-13-60, verifax ebpies of two pages
of DOLAN's handwriting were submitted to the Bureau. :

=Be

DocId:32325818 Page 2


a i \

DL 92-292

The Minneapolis Office has advised that on November 10)
1960, Captain of Detectives WILLIAM MAHNKE, Minneapolis. Police

Department, who was acquainted wit}/ the investigation of that mu’

department concerning JARRELL CARTER, FBI No. 147 6686, u
alleged associate of DOLAN's, ad¥\sed DULAN was unknown to him
and he had seen no indication off an attempt to "fix" CARTER's
case. The matter was likewise discussed 'with EUGENE BERNATH,
Investigator, Hennepin County Attorney's Office, Minneapolis,
who could furnish no information “ef pertinence. Identification

records, Minneapolis Police Department , failed to reflect references

to DOLAN, :

: A review of the records of the Chicago Credit Bureay,
Incorpprated, on November 14, 1960, by Investigative Clerk

RANDA’ L. SWAN reflected no eredit ermation regarding DOLAN Tor
JOSEPHKCORIVANO, 109 South Morgan. Pree (Ae Lie

The records of the Chisago Police Department, Bureau
of Records and Communications, as reviewed by SA MARSHALL E.
RUTLAND on November 10, 1960, failed to reflect any record
identifiable. with CORIVANO or ROBERT E, FRANKLIN. :

a

information regarding additional associates is
recorded under "Criminal Record". -

D. CRIMINAL AGrTVTTy

‘ On October 31, 1960, DL T-2 advised SA ALFRED D.« NEELEY
that. he was. acquainted with ZAMES H, DOLAN and has known him for
about 15 years. He stated that DOLAN was a gambler and lived
in Oak Cliff, Dallas, telephone WH 2-0445, and was in-charge
of a union for show people. He stated that he never knew of
*DOLAN being involved in any thefts and stated that he was a
promoter type person whe always had seme kind of "deal" going.

“PL f<2 stated that DOLAN tried to get him to goto Cuba about
a year ago on a gambling proposition but he refused. He
. Stated that DOLAN apparently has some connection:with the
gamblers in Chicago, Illinois, as he is always talking about
the fixed Chicago fights. DL T-2 stated that DOLAN called
him last week wanting to know the location of a gambling game
saying that he had one of the best card players and that he wanted
é to get this man in a game. DL T-2 stated that he suggested |
: PINKY RHODEN's (phonetic) game at Odessa, Texas, and DOLAN told
him that this man could not play at RHODEN'’s, since he knew
RHODEN, Odessa Red, and some cther gamblers there. He — :
advised that DOLAN did not tell him who this person was and
“he did not see him. DL T-2 stated that a short time ago he
oe hag” soe HOt shot BSILEr that was unimown in the DallaS area
and that he was attempting to work up a-game for him, but. he

did not know how he came out. ‘i

ell-

Docld:32325818 Page 3

