BE

PBI

Dore: 4/8 /6u,

:
i
1
i
!
1
'
I
1
1
Transmit the following in’ are i S81 HAS NC OBJECTION zi)
FL, (Tye te DIY ba chicy - Te ky ANSIOR,

1
grr eye i
A AIRY AIL 7A NEORMATION
ia wan

+ SAC, NEW YORK (105~41643) (RUC)

SUBJECT:'“ MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO (MDC)
a IS-CUBA :

NM
(00: MIAMI) yy ie Pr (lowe A ‘on: OAD

aN ReBuairtel to NY dated 3/3/64, with enclosed Navy letter
4 dated 2/25/64, classified "Secret". R

a Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are 12 copies of a
x LHM and 12 copies of a reliability memo.

Enclosed for Miami are ll_copies of LHM and reliability {
N memo for local dissemination to: CIA; ONI; INS; State Dept,,

Coordinator of Cuban Affairs; Border Patrol; Coast Guard; G-2;
OSI and US Customs, Miami and Region II.

:

los

a4
Ns

NY T-1, mentioned in enclosed LHM, is U.S. Navy.

The source of NY T-1 isfcyriL BERTRAM HAMBLETT, Rear
Admiral, USNR (Ret.), who desired that his” identity be kept

fo} dential,
Ge mfidential s Gaye nee
HAMB: stated that he originally furnished/information
¢ to Capt. BROWNLEE, DIO-3ND, and ie time there was present
& with Captain BROWNLEE a Naval off who is associated with
[ ‘° CIA whose name he did not oc
e

n that CIA had approached ti to offer assistance to the
‘MDC group which is in some Geo ral American

EMS ‘fv
_ cma
7 mak

-
. 0
HAMBLETT also ate d Spee JOSE IG! Ab Ld gZ a6

- 32Bareau (97-4110) (Encl, Bay ”
\ I-Miamt (97-328) (Enc L

1-New York (105-41693 cers ef
FJO:mfw (312 ale an

ded

EY * OTHERWISE, asi Oe
Approved: S >S Sent : it ST @
i Special Agent in Charge INES | RIFICATION
wk fe Meee f Peep oe i ;
Magis Ue JAB: sacl

Docld:32578800 Page 1


- NY 1105-41643 SECR ET

told HAMBLETT that the CIA wens Se. CARR} who made this 6).
offer but nothing has materi@ yized

For info of ae Capt. “JOHN F. BROWNEEE is Chief of
DIO-3ND, 90 Church St., NYC. (x)

Docld:32578800 Page 2
