# docid-32328520

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90076-10035

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 97-3810-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

10: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: • 09/17/1959

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

ALONSO HIDALGO BARRIOS

MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32328520

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

-263 (Rev. 3359)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

PORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

ILE OF CASE

RALONSO HIDALGO

BARRIOS

ALL INFORMA 0I SECANAD

HEREIN CONC: DNC:4-90

DATE 121.

REFERENCES:

P 1 8 1959

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/7

REPORT MADE BY

GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

FINTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

REGISTRATION ACT

-9/5/59

TYPED BY

CED: DLP

case.

HEREIN I

WHERE SHOWN OTHE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSISICATION AND/OR, -

RELEASE OF SIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT, K 10-2-97

SID ISR

10-1197

FTZVEXCEPT

(JFK)

12-95

Grassinem

56685

Declassify On:

• DADi

SPECIAL AGENT

N CHARGE

APPROVED

COPIES MADE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

9157 3810÷

6

Bureau

(RM)

INS, Miami

(RM)

(02)

5 - Miami

* 105-1850248

<1-105-1960) 8(4)

1-105-1961)

(1-105-1734)

• SEP 22 1959

"Notations: jEC

AGENCY TSD-OGA StAtE CHiE?

HOW FORM

POT FOR 2= 310-56

BY UAN St

SSEP 3019509

SEGRET

DocId: 32328520

Page 2

16- 16.

EX 100

_copies made

Rei Marcos Lap?

42:28 J56/14

for revier at FBIHQ by

HSCA re 3:14•28 request.

(See Bafite #02-117290)

---

## Page 3

101 2 05-1850

ADMINISTRATIVE

Miami has separate investigations currently under-

way on RICARDO PIMENTEL, MANUEL J. DIAZ, JOSEPH M, PAULA,

TONY FARINAS, and ALBERTO LOPEZ LOPEZ, and on the organization

Departamento De Investigaciones Del Ejercito Revolucionario.

Results of those investigations will be reported to

Bureau 'in connection with their individual cases.

INFORMANTS

Location of Original Information

NY 109-46

Identity

MM T-1 is WALLACE

W. QUINN, Miami, Florida

ship broker, who reported

to the New

York Office,

MM T-2 is ROBERT A.

WILLIAMS, tOrmer PSI,

4253 NW 2nd Street,

Miami, who reported

on 5/5/59 to SA

GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.

MM T-3 is MM 635=S

MM I-4 iS MANUEL J. DIAZ,

PSI, who reported on

7/3/59 to SA GEORGE E.

DAVIS; and on 8/3/59 to

SA WILLIAM A. WIGHTMAN

109-49

134-211 Sub A-147

109-49

• B -

COVER PAGE

SEBREL

DocId: 32328520 Page 3

---

## Page 4

AM9205-185050(4)

SCORE

MM I-S is FRANK PEREZ,

1030 NW 2nd Street,

Miami, Fla., who reported

on 7/16/59, to SA

THOMAS H. ERRION

MM T-6 is MARIO MARTINEZ,

Continental Communications

of Florida, who reported on

9/1/59 to SA GEORGE E:

DAVIS, JR.

MM T-7 is Miss MERCEDES

LINGOYA, 5822 NW 2nd

Avenue, Hialeah, Florida, who

has recently defected as Vice

Consul, Cuban Consulate,

327159u epo tea or

LO SAS WILLIAM P.

KELLY; WILLIAM A. WIGHTMAN,

and GEORGE E. DAVIS,

sand again on 9/4/59

SA DAVIS.

134-349

Instant report, page &

Instant report, page

9

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed in this report and "T" symbols were utilized only

in those instances where identities must be concealed.

-c *

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32328520 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD -204 (Rov-3-3-59)

BAC

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

Copy to:

1 - INS, Miami, Florida

(RM)

Report ofi

Date:

Field Offico Fllo di

Title:

SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.

SEP 1 Y 1959

1I05-18502 6us

ALONSO HIDALGO BARRIOS $ Fus

Office:

MIAMI

Buroou File Ms

Characters

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA:%

REGISTRATION ACT

413-95

Grassited

B68SLDEH

Arclassify on: DAD

5668 540/GCL

01.

Зуторвів:

8/25/97

MM T-1 reported in 4/59, that HIDALGO, new Cuban Consul

- General, Miami, Fla., had been sent to Miami in reality

on mission of intelligence.

Other informants subsequently

reported informationreflecting that HIDALGO was active

in selection, direction, and receiving of reports from

alleged Cuban intelligence agents in Miami.

On 7/4/59,

HIDALGO was arrested in Miami and charged with disorderly

conduct for inciting a riot outside residence of ROLANDO

MASFERRER, former Cuban Senator and anti-CASIRO leader.

On 9/4/59,

Municipal Court Judge, Miami, postponed decision

in HIDALGO's case on question of diplomatic immunity, and

on 9/10/59, dismissed charge against him. Informants

described HIDALGO as vulgar, uncouth, and completely un-

qualified to run Consulate.

Information received reflects

HIDALGO may not continue as Consul General, Miani, after

final decision rendered by Municipal Court, Miami, in his

case.(#(M)

-C-

LNFORMA TIAN CON

PIED BICEP

NONE SHORT O SUERW!

This document contams neither recommendations no? concluslons of the FBI. It la the property of the FBI and la loaned to

vale arenau. la and le antonte are not in ha diatributod nutallo your goonor.

DocId:32328520

Page 5

---

## Page 6

M18205-185074(M)

MM I-2 on May 18, 1959, identified a photograph

of ALONSO HIDALGO BARRIOS

from a group of photographs

as being identical to the Cuban Consul General whom he

met on

in the Pan American Bank Building, Miami, Floridas

29/7, 1959, at the Cuban Consulate which Me peated

On May 14, 1959, MM T-3 advised ALONSO HIDALGO

BARRIOS and MANUEL J. DIAZ, leader of the Cuban Air Force,

had disclosed to him on May 13, 1959, that DIAZ in addition

to working as an investigator for the Cuban Air Force, was

also working for HIDALGO, who has four men of the Department

of. Investigations of the Cuban Revolutionary Army (DIER)

working under him in Miami.

The identity of these four

Individuals was not disclosed to MMI-3.(8)(M)

On June 10, 1959, MM T-3 advised HIDALGO planned

to go to Cuba on June 10, 1959, to see FIDEL CASTRO. HIDALGO

disclosed to MM I-3 on June 10,1959, that henceforth

all investigators for the Cuban Air Force would have to

submit their reports to him.

on July 3, 1959, MM T-4 advised he learned

at the Cuban Consulate, Miami, that HIDALGO departed on

July 2, 1959, for Cuba. MM I-4 said HIDALGO had been sent

to Miami as Cuban Consul General by RAUL CASTRO, brother

of FIDEL CASTRO, as a reward for his services performed

during the revolution against BATISTA. MM T-4 said HIDALGO

had been in charge of purchasing arms in the United States

for the revolutionary forces of FIDEL CASTRO. (SP)(M)

MM I-4, who is personally acquainted with HIDALGO,

described him as being a "radical similar to RAUL CASTRO

DocId:32328520

Page 6

---

## Page 7

MM 105-18500

4,9

3'

On May 7, 1959, MM T-2 advised that he had been

propositioned to work as an investigator by a Cuban knot: lE

to him as J. SERGEyBURRELL, hewas taken to the office

of the Cuban Consul General, Miami, where he was introduced

to ALONSO HIDALGO, Cuban Consul General, and to Major

MARCOS DIAZ

who was then Inspector General of the Cuban

Air Force lUBA FLA.

MM I-? was questioned regarding the proposition

that had been made to him, and HIDALGO and DIAZ stated

they expected to get results of MM T-2 worked for them,

and they indicated that they would double check any

investigative work performed by bim. 4)

On May 11, 1959, MM T-2 advised that on the

evening of May 7, 1959, BURRELL informed him had gotten

the "green light"toward using MM T-2 for this investigative

work.

At that time BURRELL disclosed he worked only for

the Cuban Air Force Intelligence and that his assignment

consisted of making contacts and engaging in liaison

activities

XBURRELL instructed MM I-? to get acquainted with

himself available

in exile in Miami, who is generally regarded as one of

the principal so-called "war criminals" of the BATISTA

regime.

105560-

AvE

MIAMIFLA.

MASFERRER is

also recognized as one of the

leading anti-CASTRO Cubans in Miami.

3.

DocId: 32328520 Page 7

---

