# docid-32309117

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

• AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10297-10244

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-871

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

09/10/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32309117

Page 1

230

---

## Page 2

UREAU OF A. JESTIGATION

PARTMENT OF JUSTICE

IDICATIONS SECTION

SEP 1 11962

TELETYPE

matabas

EMM

slot

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr

Mri Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Mr. Evans

MY Malone_

Mosen.

Sukkan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy.

DEFERRED

9-10-62

2-15 AM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-3171/

FROM SAC, CHICAGO / 92-349/

2P

Anti-rocketeerng

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKAO, ARO DAILY

PotenTiaL @RiminaL

INFORMANT

APSE GEORGE VYDRA MOVISED LISTANT THAT HE NET WITH SHARLES AND SAM

ENGLISH AT THE FIFTH JACK CLUB, CHICAGO, SEPTEMBER SEVEN LAST. NOTED

THAT THE ENGLISHES ARE CHICAGO TOP HOODLUMS. CHARLES ENGLISH OPERATES

LORMAR RECORD DISTRIBUTORS, CHICAGO, AND IS

GIANCANA LIEUTENANT AND

BUSINESS PARTNER. PURPOSE OF PCI MEETING WITH ENGLISHES WAS FOR PUSHING

INFORMANT-S SINGER, JANE DARWIN, AS RECORDING STAR. INFORMANT HAS STATED

HE HAS

ASCERTAINED NO ONE CAN ATTAIN SUCESS IN JUKE BOX FIELD IN CHICAGO

ARLA WITHOUT SANCTION OF ENGLISH. DURING CONFERENCE WITH ENGLISHES,

PCI WAS ADVISED BY THEM THAT CHARLES ENGLISH OWNES NINETY PER CENT OF

PLAZA RECORDS, AND MAINTAINS ABSOLUTE CONTROL OF JUKE BOXES AND RECORDS

PLAYED ON THEM. (V)

ENGLISH WAS IMPRESSED BY INFORMANT-S SINGER AND DESIRED HER TO BE

HEARD BY GIANCANA. ON SEPTEMBER EIGHT LAST, INFORMANT-S SINGER APPEARED

AT WEDDING RECEPTION HELD AT PALMER HOUSE HOTEL WHICH WAS ATTENDER DE,

ACCORDING TO

INFORMANT, MOST OF CHICAGO-S HOODLUMS, INCLUDING GIANCANA,

WHO WAS WITH

SINGER AND AGREED

THAT SHE SHOULD BE HANDLED THROUGH PLAZA

END

ALL INFORMATICAN CONTAINED

& SEP 21 196dW;

JOk

HEREIN IG UNCLASSINIED.

DATE4/20/84 BYSPSEja/Buy

DocId: 32309117 Page 2

---

