JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form : :

4/6/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10292-10111
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 105-172694-58
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, NY
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 02/07/1969
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
FS, INTERNATIONAL ANTI-COMMUNIST BRIGADE, ACA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 07/16/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1
Docld:32307408 Page 1



eee H
SEE an CO PANTIDENTEC. \
CO Nike ria .

UNITED STATE: IRNMENT AGI
{FORMATION CONTAINED
Memorandum rt TTTgD BXCEPD
: AVERE SHGWN OTHERWISE.
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (105-172694) : DATE: 2/7/69
or
FRoM “\éer ~ EW YO. a ee i
5 NEW YORK (105-91338) (P) hbich :
ay - : Dectassify oyf Se
SUBJECT: NAL ANTI-COMMUNIST BRIGADE
ALL INF! INED
pea MATTERS - CUBA HEREIN See fe
0O: MIAMI : c we
) DATE_Ssh— BY geo rem ou{en |
Re Legat Mexico airtel to Bureau, 11/5/68, NYlet :
wy /68, MMrep of SA FRANCIS E,. GIBBONS, 1/6/69.

Ny \ Go Bureau, 11/21
®
xX

Requests have been made at American Express Co.,

) Broadway, NY, NY, in November and December, 1968 and January,
T969, regarding the origin of the $50 travelers chetk

#NA 63-070-069; however, to date due ‘to internal administrative.
problems, the information requested has not been received.

Information received from American Express Co., above,
indicates that the prefix "NA" is an error, and should be "HA." \

As soon as information requested above has bem
received, the Bureau and the office of origin will be pro
advised.

The following confidential informants who are
Oe acquainted with some anti-Castro activities in the NYC area
were contacted on the dates indicated below and they advised
that they are unacquainted with the above organization.

Informant Date Contacting Agent : ;

CSNY{ 2623S, (e) 11/26/68 FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN 1
Keorel eek SY 11/26/68 i t |

csny 4783-s 11/21/68 ia "

NY 5938-S 11/26/68 7 "

\MEDARDO SANCHEZ, PSI 11/26/68

Nga
| oureen cay RED 9.S-/LE CL WS Y |

5 1 - Legat, Mexi >
2- er RESET mad FEBGER 1969
1 - New York 7 J
| le ; A : —— .
|  norsgec i [LO MMEK 08 by 6 = a cy
| ; (BEB191909 Lo  aterte gy THEN uni
CONFIDENTIA
q a Buy U.S. S. avings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan , ;

Docld:32307408 Page 2
