# docid-32294152

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/14/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10212-10428

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-540

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LABADIE, STEPHEN J.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/09/1963

'PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

LCN, TP, FL, BKG, LEADERSHIP, LST, RES, TRA,

MEMBERSHIP, CRIMINAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 1A

v9.1

DocId: 32294152 Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

FEDERA

BUREAU OF INSTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

LA COSA NOSTRA

DATE

12/9/63

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/5/63 - 12/6/63

REPORT MADE BY

SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING - CONSPIRACY

TYPED BY

mh

REFERENCES:

Report of SA JAMES P. FLYNN, 7/1/63, at New York.

Bureau airtel to New

York, 11/4/63.

- RUC -

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU

Original and one copy of letterhead memorandum characteriz-

ing informants.

TO NEW YORK

ADMINISTRATIVE

One copy of letterhead memorandum characterizing informants.

It is to be noted that in Tampa, Florida, captioned or=

ganization has always been described as the Mafia,

under which

caption numerous communications have been furnished the Bureau

APPROVED

Y CHARGI

COPIES MADE:

(3 - Bureau (92-6054) • (Enc, 2)

2

- New York (92-2353) (Enc. 1)

3

Tampa (92-218)

1 - (92-1)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-16054-

540

NEC 24

sue 194

1993

5N250769

COPIES DESTROYED

TO MAN 2E 10O

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD.

HOW FWD.

BY.

NOTATIONS

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 18-76324-1

DocId: 32294152 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 92-218

relative to alleged members and all past activities.

In 1956

Florida, a local Hillsborough County Grand Jury investi-

Eation of the Maria resulted in the Grand Jury's concluding that

Gat A128

there is no national or local Mafia in Tampa; however, on

October 15, 1963 in Washington, D. C. before the U. S. Senate

former Chief of

Tampa believed the Mafia was identical with La Cosa Nostra as

described by witness JOSEPH VALACHI.

In view of the above, this report is submitted consisting

of alleged members of the old Mafia in Tampa, Florida.

It is to be noted that cases are open in the Tampa Office

on all individuals cited in this report as members of the Mafia.

The individual cases opened on alleged members as set

forth in this report are to determine their background, current

activities, and establish their prominence and/or association in

La Cosa Nostra so that the Tampa overall investigative responsi-

bility in this captioned organization can be met.

It is further noted for the information of the New York

Division that it is generally understood in law enforcemeht that

the SANTO TRAFFICANTE "family" encompasses all those in the Tampa

area, however, attempts continue to ascertain the existence of

individual "families."

INFORMANTS

TP T-1 is VERNON WARD, 4109 28th Avenue, and his brother,

JOSEPH WARD, 4620 Kensington Avenue, both Tampa,

Florida, who

furnished a

list of Mafia members to the Tampa RA in November,

1950.

TP T-2 is P. JOSEPH RODRIGUEZ who furnished a list of

Mafia members to the Bureau, Kefauver Committee,

and the Tampa

RA in 1950 who, at such time, was a Tampa City representative.

TP T-3 is former TP 22-C, PAUL ANTONORI, SR., who died

recently in Tampa, Florida..

B#

COVER PAGE

518104

DocId: 32294152 Page 3

---

