JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —_124-90038-10005
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 92-4930-4
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: DN
TO: HQ 7
TITLE:
DATE: — 10/19/1960
PAGES: 24
SUBJECTS :
JAMES HENRY DOLAN
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/27/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : RPT

vol
DocId: 32325816 Page 1


Reporting Office

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Oifice of Origin Investigative Period

Date
10/19/60

DENVER © DALLAS 9/15 - 10/14/60
bat TTLE(OF CASE eee Report made by as Typed By:
Nex 70) PAUL E. BUSH eis
‘\ JAMES HENRY DOLAN, aka CHARACTER OF CASE
ANTI-RACKETEERING 2
TATE REFERENCES: Dallas letter to Denver dated August 31, [960.

(Interoffice). :
Report of SA MANNING C. " CLEMENTS, Dallas, dated

September 27, 1960.

Dallas letter to Houston dated.October 10, 1960.
(Interoffice).

- RUC -
INFORMANTS : He
Denver T-1 is PCI LOUIS DOMONICK GAUDIO, Denver, .

Colorado, contacted by SAs WILLIAM P. SPRINGSTON and PAUL E.
BUSH.

It is noted that GAUDIO was identified as an associate
of DOLAN by the Denver Office in 1951 and only recently moved |
from Chicago, Illingis, to Denver, Colorado. GAUDIO stated on ~
May 11, 1960, he hs had no recent contact with DOLAN and has
received no info: tion reflecting DOLAN has been in the Denver.

iy

Approved,

Copies R

yee

ys
vi
vie

Special Agent
in Charge

/}

Do not write in spaces below

- Bureau
2 - Dallas (92-292)

1 - Denver (92-174)

Cafe

0-G¢-D pse{ bs
Chy 2 £216 a

an Qa,
Qed f& Ce Lb

\

WU, 5. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1986 O—sess10

Hl

Property of FBI — Baures SGe }FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the qgehey to which loaned. |
seat

7)

Docld:32325816 Page 2


q DN 92-174

DETAILS:
I. RESIDENCE

On May 11, 1960, DN T-1 reported that he has
been acquainted with JAMES M. DOLAN since 1946 and that he
knew DOLAN as a con man and crooked gambler, who was con-
victed in U. S. District Court, Denver, in 1953 on charges
of impersonating a Federal Officer, as a result of DOLAN's
activities and attempting to "shake down". Denver residents
for large sums of money. Informant stated DOLAN has served
the prison term imposed upon him in U. S. District Court,
Denver, and is now residing in Dallas, Texas, where he is
reported to be an official of a labor union. Informant
stated he has had no reports that DOLAN has been in the
Denver area since he was released from the penitentiary.

On May 12, 1960, LESLIE REED, U. S. Probation
Officer, Denver, Colorado, informed SA PAUL E. BUSH that
after being convicted on impersonation charges in U. S.
District Court, Denver, in 1951 and placed on probation,
DOLAN violated his probation and was sentenced to a prison
term, most of which sentence was served at the Federal
Correctional Institution, Seagoville, Texas. He stated
DOLAN was released on parole from that institution on
February 21, 1956, and since that time has resided in the
Dallas, Texas, area where he was under supervision of the
U. S. Probation Officer, Dallas, Texas. He stated that
DOLAN was released on parole on September 25, 1959.

It is noted that as of May, 1959, the Dallas
Division reported DOLAN was residing in Dallas where he was
office manager of the American Guild of Variety Artists.

Docld:32325816 Page 3
