# docid-32557728

## Page 1

FD-302 (Rev: 4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

August 27, 1968

Date

Lt. JOSEPH J. SMITH, Officer in Charge, Marine

Inspection Division, U. S. Coast Guard, 501 N. F. Ist

Avenue, Room 301, Miami, Florida, advised that a Report

on Vessel Caspalty or Accident (U. S. Treasury Department

form No. CG 2022), was completed on August 12, 1968, by

Captain C. J. ANDERSON, Master of the British Freighter

"Caribbean Venture" with regard to the damage which that

vessel suffered on August 8, 1968. Lt. SMITH made available

= copy of this form which is attached.

On

8/21/68

Miami, Florida

—_File # -

Miami 45-1168

by

SA

MICHAEL E. CRANE:ed

-Date dictated _ 8/27/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI, It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

1. 1

DocId:32557728

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TREASURY DEPARTHENL

U.S. COAST GUARD

CG-2692 (Rev.. 4-61)

REPORT OF VESSEL CASUALTY OR ACCIDENT

Form Approved Budget Bureau

No: 48-R114.5

REPORTS CONTROL STMBOL

INSTRUCTIONS

1. An original and two copies of this form shall be submitted,

3. This form should be completed in full; blocks which do not

without delay, to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, in

apply to a particular case should be indicated as

Whose district the casualty occurred, or in whose district the

Where answers are unknown of none, they should be indi-

vessel first arrived after such casualty.

cated as such.

All copies should be signed.

2. If the person making the report is a licensed officer on a ves-

NOTE: (1) Report all deaths and injuries, shich incapacitate

sel required to be manned by such officer, he must make the

in excess of 72 hours, on CG-924E whether or not

report in muniting and in person to the proper Marine Inspector.

there was a vessel casualty.

If because of distance it may be inconvenient for such an offi-

(2) Attach separate Form CG-924E to this report for

cer to submit the report in person, he may submit the required

each person killed or injured and incapacitated in

number of copies by mail. However, to avoid delay in investi-

excess of 72 hours as a result of the vessel

gations, it is desired that reports be submitted in person.

casualty reported herein.

Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, Port of frAMI

DATE SUBMITTED

I2-8-69

1.

NAME UF VESSEL

2.

OFFICIAL NUMBER

I PARTICULARS OF VESSEL

3.

HOME PORT

GREAT TeeT

3. TYPE OF

OF VESSEL (FM.,pa88., ikr., osc)

30343

6. PROPULSION(Stoem, diogol, eic)

4. NATIONALITY

NETRAT

8. REGISTERED LENGTH OR L.O.A

MATRAT

9. HULL RATERTALS -2

GROSS

TONNAGE

7517

12. (a) RADAR EQUIPPED

10. YEAR BUILT

I963

IT. RADIO ECUIPMENT

ZIT 56 5170

LE TRANSMIT

RECEIVE

LEVOICE

CH (Key)

(b)

IF

YES. RADAR OPERATING AT TIME OF CASUALTY

YES

NO

13. 80) CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION ISSUED AT PORT OF

ATTALIT

14. (2) NAME OF MASTER OR PERSON IN CHARGE (Indicato which)

YES

NO

(D) DATE CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION ISSUED

WO DANTe

(D) DATE OF BIRTH

(c)

LICENSED

BY

COAST

GUARD

: 50:2

26m 7,52

SERVING UNDER AUTHORITY

OF LICENSE

Vassal alonecide.

FOREIGY

16. (0) NAME OF

OWNER(S) , OPERATORTS) OR AGENT (Indicaro which)

Owners

(D) ADDRESS OF OWNER(S), OPERATOR(S). OR AGENT

ENCHMIGE DUTIDINGS, QUAYSIDE,

mashionin Cana

Il PARTICULARS OF CASUALTY

17.(6) DATE OF CASUALTY

(D) TIME

OF CASUALTY(Local or

(e) ZONE DESCRIPTION

Iono)

E-Bo58

18. LOCATION

1315. 3r9a

(d) TIME OF DAY

ER DAY LNIGHT

OF CASUALTY (Lalliudo end longitude; dietenco and IRUE boaring from chariod objeci; dock; enchorado; eic.)

TWILIGHT

Pier 10.3 MTAMI.

19. BODY OF WATER (Goographicalnemo)

20. RULES OF THE ROAD APPLICASLE

INTERNATIONAL

INLAND

OTHER (Spocily)

GREAT LAKES

WESTERN

RIVERS

21. (2) DID CASUALTY OCCUR WHILE UNDERMAY:

(b) IF YES, LAST. PORT OF DEPARTURE

YES

NO

(e) IF YES: WHERE BOUNO MHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED

22. (a) WEATHER CONDITIONS WHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED:

CLEAR

PARTLY CLOUDY

OVERCAST

FOG

(b) VISI8ILITY(Miloo.yde.,fl.,otc.)

(c)

WIND

DIRECTION

Ligat airs.

23.(2) SEA

CONDITIONS WHEN (D) SEA MATER

TEMP

(e) HEIGHT OF SEA

CASUALTY

OCCURRED

(If availabio)

RAIN

SNOW

OTHER (Spocity)

10)

FORCE

IN KNOTS

(o) GUSTY

I/2

YES

NO

(d) DIRECTION

OF SEA

(O) HEIGHT

OF

SWELL

(1) AIR TENPERATURE

85

(1) DIRECTION OF SHELL

24. (2) NATURE OF CARGO (Spacily)

(D) AMOUNT OF DRY CARGO

(Long tona)

(C) AMOUNT OF BUIX LIQUID

(Long tone)

(d) AMOUNT OF DECK LOAD

(Long t0n8)

No cargo onboard

25.(0) DRAFT FORMARD;

(D) DRAFT AFT

I4'00"

26. (E) TYPES OF LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT USED.

IF ANY

MONS

14'06"

(D) NO.

LIVES SAVED

WITH LIFE-

(C) LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT SATIS.

SAVING EQUIPMENT

FACTORY

_YES

I NO (11 no, explain in

16001 34)

PREVIOUS EDITIONS ARE OBSOLETE

(Over)

15

DocId:32557728 - Page 2

---

## Page 3

27.

CREN

PASSENGERS

NUMBER ON BOARD

DEAD/MISSING

20

nil

21l

OTHER (Specily)

nil

nil

ni?

INCAPACITATED (over 3 days)

n11

29.

NATURE OF THE CASUALTY (Check one or more of the following.

COLLISION WITH OTHER VESSEL(S) (Spacity)

28

ESTIMÁTED LUSS 'DAMAGE TO YOUR VESSEL

ESTIMATED LOSS/DAMAGE

TO YOUR CARGO

ESTIMATED LOSS/ DAMAGE

TO OTHER PROPERTY

(Spocity whethos vessel, dock, bridge, elc.)

Give portinent details in item 30.)

EXPLOSION/ FIRE, (Other)

GROUNDING

FOUNDER (Sinking)

CAPSIZING WITYDIT SINKING

FLOODING. SWAMPING. ETC.. WITHOUT SINKING

HEAVY WEATHER DAMAGE

$

COLLISION WITH FLOATING OR SUBMERGED OBJECTS

COLLISION

WITH FIXED OBJECTS (Plers, bridgea, erc.)

COLLISION WITH ICE

COLLISION MITH AIDS TO NAVIGATION

COLLISION (Ocher).

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving cargo)

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving vessel'a fuel)

FIRE (Vosgel"s atructure os equipment)

EXPLOSION (Boller and assoclated parte)

CARGO DAMAGE (No vossol damago)

MATERIAL

FAILURE (Vessel atructure)

MATERIAL

FAILURE (Engineering machinery, including main

propulsion,

auxillaries,

boilers,

evaporators,: dack machinery,

electrical,

atc.)

EQUIPMENT FAILURE

CASUALTY. NOT NAMED ABOVE

EXPLOSION (Pressure vossols and compressed das cylinders)

30.

DESCRIPTION OF CASUALTY (Events and circunstances leading to casualty and present when it occurred.. Attach diagram and additional

sheets,

if nocossary)

Bons esplosion in lay of loves nain seavater injection

31.

DAMAGE (Givo briel genoral description and atate ll vessel is a total loca.)

Forsari mid on Lower lain Seawater Injection Seabox blown off and floor plating

sumed into vessel's hull. After grid disappeared altogether with hole in vessel's

hull in that vicinity 55" x 32", with hull plating tumed into vessel. Plating

buoiled with fratires into starboard side of hole. A fractura appa. 40" x 5"

to the centre of the hole and abouù 12" afi of the hole.

Engine Roon conpletely under water and no detailed damage of Engine Room

machinery etc. rossible.

Ill ASSISTANCE AND RECOMMENDATIONS

32.

AUTO ALARM TRANSMITTED BY YOUR VESSEL:

YES

NO

33(a) ASSISTANCE RENDERED BY

STATIONS

Quard and other atations and veaso AND VESSELS (Include Coast

(D) OTHER ASSISTANCE RENDERED

Coast Guard gave telephone muber fron

London Salvage Go.

where assistence could be obtained.

34.

RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CORRECTIVE SAFETY MEASURES PERTINENT TO THIS CASUALTY (Includo, explanation of unsatialactory lilosaving

equipment)

TITLE

SIGNATURE

NASTER.

104 D

GPO 952-157

DocId 432557728

Vage 3

---

## Page 4

FDE

30RTRev. 4-15-641

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date

August 14, 1968

JOSEPH MOODY, U. S. Coast Guard, Miami Beach,

Florida,

who is a diver attached to this Coast Guard Station,

was interviewed concerning the size and nature of the hole

In the bottom of the "Caribbean Venture."

HOODY has seven

years diving experience and during the course of this

experience has conducted a variety of underwater missions

for the U.

S, Coast Guard,

After examining the underside of the "Caribbean

Venture"

wOODY stated that although the visibility was very

poor due

to the murky water and location of the ship, he

would estimate that the hole blow in the bottom was approxi-

mately three feet wide and five feet long. He stated this

Bole was located amidships slightly to the starboard side,

and appears to have occurred in the area where two strainers

or grills are located over the main water injection intake.

(After reviewing a sketch of the ship shown to him by the

Engineer, MOODY stated this would appear to be in the area

of ribs 55, 56, and 57). MOODY stated that the strainers

or grills that are attached to the intakes are attached tỏ

the bottom of the ship with numerous bolts and that to take

off one of these grills or strainers is a three or four

hour Job.

He stated that during the course of his Coast

Guard duties, he has, on occasion, removed such a strainer

and that is on what he bases his opinion.

MOODY advised that after observing the hole, he

would say that the explosion was caused by an explosive

which was attached to one of the strainers of grills, inas

much as all metal in that area was blown inward.

He stated

he could not locate either one of the grills which should

be covering the intake, and that he presumes they were

either blow into the ship, or blown into pieces and fell

to the bottom of the harbor.

woODY stated that in his opinion, the explosive

was attached to the grill, probably either by wire of some

type of toggling device by a swimmer who used air tanks.

MOODY advised that the hole in the botton of the

ship was large enough for both he and the diver from

On

818/68

at

Miami, Florida

_File #

Miami 45-1168

SAS JOSEPH C. FRECHETTE and

MICHAEL P. DOORER JCF:ed

_Date dictated 8/13/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed putside your agency,

17

DocId: 32557728

Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 45-1168

2

the Dade County Public Safety Department to enter and

observe the interior.

He stated, however, that due

to the poor visibility, approximately one

toot, he was

unable to ascertain if any parts of the hull, the strainer,

or explosive devices were located inside.

MOODY stated that judging from his own past

experience, he would say that the explosive was attached

the strainer or grill by an experienced skin diver.

He stated this diver would, of necessity, have had to

use underwater swimming tanks inasmuch as he knows of

no one who could have accomplished such a feat without

the aid of tanks.

He stated that he believes that in this

ship, or any other ship, the injection intakes can be

located by an experienced

suckestack on the ship andiver by merely locating the

proceeding across the hull

center from the stack.

The intake could then be

located by swimming either 15 or 20 feet fore or aft

from that section.

MOODY stated, however, that in

order to locate anything on the underside of the ship,

It takes a very experienced diver either using the

seans

of the ship, or a compass in order to keep fron gotting

disoriented

due to the darkness.

MOODY

stated that

he believes that this hold

was made by " "shape charge".

8

DocId: 32557728

Page

---

## Page 6

FD-302 (Rev. 4-15-64)

FÉDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIC!

1

August 27, 1968

Date

Lt. JOSEPH J. SMITH, Officer in Charge, Marine

Inspection Division, U. S. Coast Guard, 501 N. E.

Ist

Avenue, Room 301, Miami, Florida, advised that a Report

on Vessel Cashalty or Accident (U. S. Treasury Department

C. J. ANDERSON, Master of the British

"Caribbean Venture" with regard to the damage which that

vessel suffered on August 8, 1968. Lt. SMITH made available

copy of this form which is attached.

On

8/21/68

_at Miami, Florida

-_File #

Miami 45-1168

SA

MICHAKL E. CRANE:ed

_Date dictated -

8/27/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32557728

Page 6

---

## Page 7

TREASURY DEPARTHENT

U.S. COAST GUARD

CG-2692 (Rev.. 4-61)

REPORT OF VESSEL CASUALTY OR ACCIDENT

Fort Approved Budget Burosu

No.

£8-R114.5

REPORTS CONTROL SYMBOL

•INSTRUCTIONS

1. An original and two copies of this form shall he submitted,

3. This form should be completed in full; blacks which do not

without delay, to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, in

apply to a particular case should be indicated as

whose district the casualty occurred, or in whose district the

Where answers ase unknown or none, they should be indi-

vessel first arrived after such casualty.

cated as such.

All copies should be signed.

2. If the person making the report is a licensed officer on a ves-

NOTE: (1) Report all deaths and injuries, which incapacitate

sel required to be manned by such officer, he nust make the

in excess of 72 hours, on CG-924E whether or not

report in writing and in person to the proper Marine Inspector.

there was a vossel casualty.

If because of distance it may be inconvenient for such an offi-

(2) Attach separate Form CG-924E to this report for

cer to submit the report in person, he may submit the required

each person killed or injured and incapacitated in

number of copies by mail. However; to avoid delay in investi-

excess of 72 hours as a result of the vessel

gations, it is desired that reports be submitted in person.

casualty reported herein.

DATE SUBMITTED

Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, Port of

MANI

12-3-68

I PARTICULARS OF VESSEL

NAME OF VESSEL

2. OFFICIAL NUMBER

3.

HOME PORT

4. NATIONALITY

5. TYPE OF

VESSEL(/M..pa88, ike., erc)

305/57

17719? OMT

inirty

6. PROPULSION (Stan, d/edol, oic) 7.

RETRTETT

GROSS

TONNAGE

8. REGISTERED LENGTH OR L.O.A.

mari

9. HULL MATERTALS

10. YEAR BUILT

1517-4:

1. RADIO EQUIPMEN

ZIT 56519.

12. 62) RADAR EQUTPPED

I958

LEE TRANSMIT

I RECEIVE

ERVOICE

CH (Key)

(D) IF YES, RADAR

OPERATING AT TIME

OF CASUALTY

YES

NO

YES

NO

13. (0) CERTIFICATE OF

INSPECTION

ISSUED AT

PORT OF

(D) DATE CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION ISSUED

NO DANE.

14. (2) NAME OF MASTER OR PERSON IN CHARGE (Indicato which)

(D) DATE OF

BIRTH

(C) LICENSED BY

COAST GUARD

15(0) NAME OF PILOT T OR SONOR ME ORdER

26xT-32

YES

NO

(D) PILOT SERVING UNDER AUTHORITY OF LICENSE ISSUED

8Y

Vescal alanaide.

USCG

STATE

FOREIGN

16.(0) NAME OF OWNER(S), OPERATORIS) OR AGENT (Indicato which)

(D) ADDRESS OF OWNER(S). OPERATOR(S). OR AGENT

ONTACHE

EXCENICE BUTLOINGS, QUAYSIDI,

-ARTLESTAD

Il PARTICULARS OF CASUALTY

17. (2) DATE OF CASUALTY

(D) TIME OF CASUALTY(Local or

(C) ZONE DESCRIPTION

(a) TIME OF DAY.

zone)

8-B-18

I3T5

E DAY NIGHT

TWILIGHT

18. LOCATION OF CASUALTY (Lalltudo and longitudo; dialance end TRUE bearina from charied objoci; docki anchorago; eic.)

Pier No.3 MABI.

19. BODY OF WATER (Goographical namo)

20. RULES OF THE ROAD APPLICABLE

INLAND

INTERNATIONAL.

OTHER (Spocity)

YES

NO

GREAT LAKES

WESTERN

RIVERS

21. (2) DIO CASUALTY OCCUR WHILE UNDERMAY:

(D) IF YES. LAST. PORT OF: DEPARTURE

(C)IF YES: WHERE SOUNO MHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED

22. (e) WEATHER CONDITIONS WHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED:

CLEAR

PARTLY CLOUDY

OVERCAST

FOG

RAIN

SNOW

(b) VISIBILITY(Milos.ydo....erc./

(C) WIND DIRECTION

FORCE IN KNOTS

Light airs.

I/2

23. (2) SEA

CONDITIONS

WHEN | (D) SEA

CASUALTY

OCCURRED

WATER

TEMP

(e) HEIGHT OF SEA

(a) DIRECTION OF SEA

(It avaltable)

OTHER (Spoclly)

(0)

GUSTY

YES

NO

(0) HEIGHT OF

SWELL

(1) AIR TEMPERATURE

85

(D) DIRECTION OF SWELL

24. (2) NATURE OF CARGO (Specily)

(D) AMOUNT OF DRY CARGO

(Long sona)

(C) AMOUNT OF

BUlK LIQUID.

(Long tone)

(a) AHOUNT OF DECK LOAD

(Long tons)

No carso onboara

25. (2) ORAFT FORWARD,

(D) DRAFT AFT

I4'00"

26. (E) TYPES OF LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT USED.

IF ANY

NOIS

PREVICUS EDITIONS ARE

OBSOLETE

DocId: 32557728 : Page 7

(b) NO.

LIVES SAVEO

WITH LIFE-

SAVING

EQUIPMENT

(C) LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT SATIS.

FACTORY

_YES

L No (11 no, explals, in

Item 34)

'(Ovar)

15

---

## Page 8

27

CRET

PASSENGERS

OTHER (Specify)

28

ESTIMATED LUSS'DAMAGE

TO.YOUR VESSEL

NUMBER ON BOARD

20

DEAD/MISSING

zil

ni

ESTIMATED LOSS/DAMAGÉ

TO YOUR CARGO

$

nil

221.1

1212

ESTIMATED LOSS DAMAGE TO

OTHER PROPERTY

$

INCAPACITATED (over 3 days)

n1.2

nil

(Spoelly whorhor vessel, dock, bridgo, eic.)

29. NATURE OF THE CASUALTY (Chock one or more of tho following. Give pertinent details in item 30.)

COLLISION WITH OTHER VESSEL(S) (Speclly)

EXPLOSION/FRE-(Other)

'GROUNDING

FOUNDER (Sinking)

COLLISION WITH FLOATING OR SUBMERGED OBJECTS

CAPSIZING HI TUDUT SINKING

COLLISION

WITH FIXED OBJECTS (Plers, bridgea, elc.)

FLOODING. SWAMPING. ETC.. WITHOUT SINKING

COLLISION WITH ICE

HEAVY WEATHER DAMAGE

COLLISION WITH AIDS TO NAVIGATION

CARGO DAMAGE (No vessel damago)

COLLISION (Other)

MATERIAL FAILURE (Vessal atructure)

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving cargo)

MATERIAL FAILURE (Engineering machinery, including main

propulsion,

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving vessel's fuel)

auxillaries,

avaporatore, dock machinery,

electrical, otc.)

FIRE (Vosgel's atructure or equipment)

EQUIPMENT FAILURE

EXPLOSION (Bollor and associated parts)

CASUALTY NOT NAMED ABOVE

EXPLOSION (Pressuro vessela and compressod gas cylinders)

30.

DESCRIPTION OF CASUALTY. (Events and circumstances loading to casually and present when it occurred.. Attach diagram end additional

sheets, if nocessary)

Bons explosion in way of loves nain seavater injection

31.

DAMAGE (Give briel denoral description end state ll vessel is a loral loea.)

Fortead gid on Lower Main Seanater Injection Seabox blown off and floor plating

turned into vessel's hull. After grid disappeared altogether with hole in vesselig

hull in that vicinity 55" = 32", vith hull plating tumed into vessel. Plating

buckled with fractures into starboard side of hole. A fractura aypaz. 40" x 5"

to the centre of the hole and abouù 12" ali of the hole.

Engine Roon completely under watez and no detailed damage of Engine Room

machinery eic. rossible.

32.

AUTO ALARM TRANSMITTED BY YOUR VESSEL:

33(E) ASSISTANCE

RENDERED BY STATIONS

Ill ASSISTANCE AND RECOMMENDATIONS

YES

NO

VESSELS (Include Coast

(D) OTHER ASSISTANCE RENDERED

Coast Guard gave telephone munber from

where assistence coald be obtained.

London Salvage Co.

34.

RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CORRECTIVE SAFETY MEASURES PERTINENT TO THIS CASUALTY (Includo oxplanation of unsatlalactory lifosaving

equipmant)

TITLE

SIGNATURE

NASTER.

4)1

GPO 952-157

DocId 32557728

Page: 8

16

---

## Page 9

4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date

August 14, 1968

JOSEPH MOODY, U. S, Coast Guard, Miamt Beach,

Florida, who is a diver attached to this Coast Guard Station,

was intervieved concerning the size and nature of the hole

in the bottom of the "Caribbean

Venture."

MOODY has seven

years diving experience and during the course of this

experience has conducted a variety of underwater missions

for the U. S. Coast Guard.

After examining the underside of the "Caribbean

MOODY stated that although the visibility was very

to the murky water and location of the ship, he

would estimate that the hole blown in the bottom was approxi-

mately three feet wide and five feet long. He stated this

hole was located amidships slightly to the starboard side,

and appears to have occurred in the area where two strainers

or grills are located over the nain water injection intake.

(After reviewing a sketch of the ship shown to him by the

Engineer, MOODY stated this would appear to be in the area

of ribs 55, 56, and 57. MOOdY stated that the strainers

or grills that are attached to the intakes are attached tỏ

the bottom of the ship with numerous bolts and that to take

Off one of these grills or strainers is a three or four-

nour job.

He stated that during the course of his Coast

Guard duties, he has, on occasion, removed such a strainer

and that is on what he bases his opinion.

MOODY advised that after observing the hole, he

would say that the explosion was caused by an explosive

which was attached to one of the strainers or grills, inas-

much as all metal in that area was blown inward.

He stated

he could not locate either one of the grills which should

be covering the intake, and that he presumes they were

either blown into the ship, o blown into pieces and fell

to the bottom of the harbor..

MOODY stated that in his opinion, the explosive

was attached to the grill, probably either by wire of some

type of toggling device by a swimmer who used air tanks.

MOODY advised that the hole in the bottom of the

ship was large enough for both he and the diver from

On

8/8/68

_at

Miami, Florida

_File #

Miami 45-1168

SAS JOSEPH C. FRECHETTE and

by

MICHAEL P. DOOHER JCF:ed

-Date dictated 8/13/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. If is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32557728

Page 9

---

## Page 10

MM 45-1168

2

500

the Dade County Public Safety Department to enter and

observe the interior.

He stated, however, that due

to the poor visibility, approximately one

foot, he was

unable to ascertain if any parts of the hull, the strainer,

or explosive devices were located inside.

MOODY stated that judging from his own past

experience, he would say that the explosive was attached

the strainer or grill by an experienced skin diver.

He stated this diver would, of necessity, have had to

use underwater swimming tanks inasmuch as he knows of

no one who could have accomplished such a leat without

the sid of tanks.

He stated that he believes that in this

ship, or any other ship, the injection intakes can be

located by an experienced

diver by merely locating the

smokestack on the ship and proceeding across the hull

dead

center from the stack.

The intake could then be

located by swimming either 15 or 20 feet fore or aft

from that

section.

MoodY stated, however, that in

order to locate anything on the underside

ot the ship,

It takes a very experienced diver either using the seams

of the

ship, or a compass in order to keep fron getting

disoriented

die to the darkness.

MoODY stated that

was

made by's "shope chartene kalieves that theis hold

DocId:32557728

Page

10

---

## Page 11

FD-302 (Rev. 4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1

August 27, 1968

Date

Lt. JOSEPH J. SMITH, Officer in Charge, Marine

Inspection Division, U. S. Coast Guard, 501 N. E.

Avenue,

Room

301, Miami, Florida, advised that a

Report

on Vessel Casbalty or Accident (U. S. Treasury Department

form No.

CG 2092), was completed on August 12, 1968, by

Captain C. J. ANDERSON, Master of the British Freighter

"Caribbean Venture" with regard to the damage which that

vessel suffered on August 8, 1968. Lt. SMITH made available

• copy of

this form which is attached.

On

8/21/68

- at

Miami, Florida

__File #

Miami

451168

by

SA

MICHAFL E. CRANE:Ed

_Date dictated

8/27/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

14

DocId: 32557728

Page 11

---

## Page 12

TREASURY DEPARTHENT

U.S. COAST GUARD

CG-2692 (Rev.. 4-61)

REPORT OF VESSEL CASUALTY OR ACCIDENT

Form Approved Budgot Buross

No. 48-R114.5

REPORTS CONTROL SYMBOL

•INSTRUCTIONS

1. An original and two copies of this form shall be submitted,

3. This form should be completed in full; blocks which do not

without delay, to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, in

apply to a particular case should be indicated as

whose district the casualty occurred, or in whose district the

Where answers are unknown or none. they should be indi-

vessel first arrived after such casualty.

cated as guch.

All copies should be signed.

2. If the person making the report is a licensed officer on a yes-

NOTE: (1) Report all deaths and injuries, which incapacitate

sel required to be manned by such officer, he nust make the

in excess of 72 hours, on CG-924E whether or not

report in writing and in person to the proper Marine Inspector.

there was a vessel casualty.

If because of distance it may be inconvenient for such an offi-

(2) Attach separate Form CG-924E to this report for

cer to submit the report in person, he may submit the required

each person killed or injured and incapacitated in

number of copies by mail. However, to avoid delay in investi-

excess of 72 hours as a result of the vessel

gations, it is desired that reports be submitted in person.

casualty reported herein.

TO:

DATE SUBMITTED

Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, Post of mANTI

I2-3-68

I PARTICULARS OF VESSEL

. NAME OF

YESSEL

2. OFFICIAL NUMBER

3. HOME PORT

A. NATIONALITY

5. TYPE OF VESSEL(Fri.,pada., tke., etc)

305/57

770: 9012

6. PROPULSION(Stoam, diesol, eic) T. GROSS TONNAGÉ

8. REGISTERED LENGTH OR L.O.A.

TATIATOMR

9. HULL MATERTALS-

TO. YEAR BUILT

1547.49

1. RADIO ECUTPNENT

3IT 565170

12. (a) RADAR EQUTPPED

I968

EXI TRANSMIT

EX RECEIVE

ERVOICE

Cw (Key)

(D) IF YES. RADAR

OPERATING AT TIME OF

CASUAL TY

YES

NO

YES

NO

13. (a) CERTIFICATE OF

INSPECTION ISSUED AT

PORT OF

(D) DATE CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION

ISSUED

IT'AWI

NO DANE.

14. (2) NAME OF MASTER OR PERSON IN CHARGE (Indicelo which)

(D) DATE OF BIRTH

(C) LICENSED BY

COAST GUARD

I5COJ NAME OF PILOT I OR SET TIME DOEST

26c IT.-52

YES

NO

(D) PILOT

SERVING UNDER AUTHORITY

OF LICENSE ISSUED

BY

Vasael

alonmidea

USCG

STATE

FOREIGN

16. (0) NAME OF OWNER(S). OPERATORiS) OR AGENT (Indicato which)

(D) ADDRESS OF OWNER(S). OPERATOR(S). OR AGENT

ENCELIGE BUILDIGS, QUAYSIDE,

17019077

1I PARTICULARS OF CASUALTY

17.(2) DATE OF CASUALTY

(D) TIME OF CASUALTY(Local or

(C) ZONE DESCRIPTION

(O) TIME OF DAY

zone)

83-68

I3I5

Fins,

CE DAY

L.VIGHT

TWILIGHT

18. LOCATION OF CASUALTY (Latitúdo end longitudo; diatance and TRUE boariná from chariod objodi; dock; enchorago; sic.)

Pier 0. 3 MART.

19. BODY OF MATER (Goographical namo)

20. RULES OF THE ROAD APPLICABLE

I INLAND

INTERHATIONAL.

OTHER (Specily)

GREAT LAKES

WESTERN RIVERS

21.(2) 01D CASUALTY OCCUR WHILE UNDERNAY:

• YES

(D) IF. YES, LAST. PORT OF DEPARTURE

NO

(C) IF YES: WHERE SOUND WHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED

22: (E) WEATHER CONDITIONS WHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED:

CLEAR

PARTLY CLOUDY

OVERCAST

(D) VISIBILITY (Miloa.yd8..fl.etc.)

(C) WIND DIRECTION

Light airs.

CONDITIONS

WHEN T (S) SEA

OCCURRED

WATER

TEMP

(C) HEIGHT OF SEA

(It available)

FORCE IN KNOTS

I/2

(d) DIRECTION OF

SEA

OTHER (Spocily)

(0) GUSTY

(1) AIR TEMPERATURE

, YES

•

NO

85

(O) HEIGHT OF

SMELL

(1) DIRECTION OF

SHELL

24.(2) MATURE OF. CARGO (Spocily)

(D) AMOUNT

OF DRY CARGO

(Lond tone)

(c) AMOUNT OF

BUlK LIQUID

(Long tong)

(d) AMOUNT OF DECK LOAD

(Long lonz)

No cargo onboard

25.(0) DRAFT. FORWARD,

(D) DRAFT AFT

14'00"

26. (E) TYPES OF LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT USED.

IF ANY

NONS

FatheAtra

PREVIOUS EDITIONS ARE OBSOLETE

\DecId: 32557728

Page 12

I4'05"

((b) NO.

LIVES SAVED

MITH LIFE.

(e) LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT SATIS.

SAVING EQUIPMENT

FACTORY

YES

→ NO (81 no, explain in

Item. 34)

(Over)

15

---

## Page 13

27

CREW

I PASSENGERS

OTHER (Specify)

NUMBER ON COARD

20

DEAD/MISSING

nil

nil

ril

nil

nil

INCAPACITATED (ovor 3 days)

-11

nil

nil

29. NATURE OF THE CASUALTY

(Check one or more of the following.

COLLISION WITH OTHER VESSEL(S) (Spoclty)

28

ESTINATED LOSS DAMAGE TO YOUR VESSEL

ESTIMATED

LOSS DAMAGE TO YOUR CARGO

ESTIMATED LOSS DAMAGE TO OTHER PROPERTY

(Spocily whothe: vossel, dock, bridgo, etc.)

Give portinent details in item 30.)

EXPLOSION/ F+76, (Other)

---

GROUNDING

FOUNDER (Sinking)

CAPSIZING WITHOUT SINKING

FLOODING. SWAMPING. ETC. WITHOUT SINKING

HEAVY WEATHER DAMAGE

CARGO DAMAGE (No veddol damago)

MATERIAL FAILURE (Vessel structure)

$

COLLISION WITH FLOATING OR SUBMERGED OBJECTS

COLLISION WITH FIXED OBJECTS (Plers, bridges, etc.)

COLLISION WITH ICE

COLLISION WITH AIDS TO NAVIGATION

COLLISION (Other)

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving cargo)

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving vessel'a fuel)

FIRE (Vegsel'e atructure or equipmont)

EXPLOSION (Boller and assoclated parts)

propulsion,

auxillaries,

eloctrical,

EQUIPMENT FAILURE

CASUALTY NOT NAMED ABOVE

evaporatore, dock machinery,

EXPLOSION (Preasure vossold and compressed das cylinders)

30.

DESCRIPTION

sheets, if necessary).

OF CASUALTY. (Events and circumstances leading to casualty end pragent when il occurred.: Attach diagram and additional

Bonb explosion in way of lover main seawater injection

31.

DAMAGE (Givo briol genoral description and state Il vessel is a total loaa.)

Forced gid on lower Main Searater Injection Seabox blown off and floos plating

sumed into vessel's hull. Afier grid disappeared altogether with hole in vessel's

hull in that vicinity 55" x 32", vith hull plating tumed into vessel. Plating

buckled with frautures into starboard side of hole. A fractura auna. 40" x 5"

to the centre of the hole and about 12" ali of the hole.

Engine Roon completely under water and no detailed damage of Engine Room

nachinery eic, rossible.

Ill ASSISTANCE AND RECOMMENDATIONS

32.

AUTO ALARM TRANSMITTED BY YOUR VESSEL:

YES

NO

33(a) ASSISTANCE RENDERED BY STATIONS

(D) OTHER ASSISTANCE RENDERED

Coast Guard gave telechone mumber from

where assistence could be obtained.

London Salvage Co.

34.

RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CORRECTIVE SAFETY MEASURES PERTINENT TO THIS. CASUALTY (Includo explanation al uneatlalactory Illegaving

aquipment)

TITLE

SIGNATURE

NASTER.

104

Milline

16

GPO 952-157

DocId 32557728

Page 13

---

## Page 14

FD:-30

Rev. 4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date

August 14, 1968

JOSEPH MOODY, U. S. Coast Guard, Miami Beach,

Florida,

who is a diver attached to this Coast Guard Station,

was intervieed concerning the size and nature of the hole

In the bottom of the "Caribbean Venture."

MOODY has seven

years diving experience and during the course of this

experience has conducted a variety of underwater missions

for the U.S. Coast Guard.

After examining the underside of the "Caribbean

Venture®,

wOODY stated that although the visibility was very

poor due

to the murky water and location of the ship, he

would estimate that the hole blown in the bottom was approxi

nately three feet wide and five feet long. de stated this

hole was located anidships slightly to the starboard side,

and appears to have occurped in the area where two strainers

or grills are located over the main water injection intake.

(After reviewing a sketch of the ship shown to him by the

Engineer, MOODY stated this would appear to be in the area

of ribs 55, 56, and 57). MOODY stated that the strainers

or grills that are attached to the intakes are attached tó

the bottom of the ship with numerous bolts and that to take

off one of these grills or strainers is a three or four-

hour job.

He stated that during the course of his Coast

Guard duties, he has, on occasion, renoved such a strainer

and that is on what he bases his opinion.

MOODY advised that after observing the hole, he

would say that the explosion was caused by an explosive

which was attached to one of the strainers or grills, inas-

much as all metal in that area was blown inward.

He stated

he could not locate either one of the grills which should

be covering the intake, and that he presumes they were

either blow into the ship, o blow into pieces and fell

to the bottom of the harbor.

was attached

type of toggling device by a swimmer who used air tanks.

MOODY advised that the hole in the botton of the

ship was large enough for both he and the diver from

On

8/8/68

at

Miani, Florida

_File # .

Miami 45-1168

SAS

• JOSEPH C. FRECHETTE and

by

MICHA FL P. DOOHER

JCF :ed

-Date dictated 8/13/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to.

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

4 7

DocId:32557728

Page 14

---

## Page 15

i Adies y

' MM 45-1168

2

the Dade County Public Safety Department to enter and

observe the interior.

He stated, however, that due

to the

poor visibility, approximately one foot, he was

unable

to ascertain if

any parts of the hull, the strainer,

or explosive devices were located inside.

MOODY stated that judging from his own past

experience, he would say that the explosive was attached

to the strainer or grill by an experienced skin diver.

He stated this diver would, of necessity, have had to

use underwater swimming tanks inasmuch as he knows of

anyan ne tanke

no one who could have accomplished

such a feat without

the sid of tanks.

He stated that he believes that in this

ship, or any other ship, the injection intakes can be

located by an experienced diver by merely locating the

snokestack on the ship and proceeding across the hull

dead center from the stack.

The intake could then be

located by swimming either 15 or 20 feet fore or aft

from that section.

MooDY stated, however, that in

order to locate anything on the underside of the ship,

It takes a very experienced diver either using the seams

of the ship, or a compass in order to keep fron getting

disoriented

due to the darkness.

dooby stated that he believes that this hold

was made by a "shape charge".

DocId:32557728

Page

15

---

## Page 16

FD-302 (Rev. 4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1

August 27, 1968

Date

Lt. JOSEPH J. SMITH, Officer in Charge, Marine

Ist

Avenue,

on Vessel Casbalty or Accident (U. S. Treasury Department

form No. CG 2032), was completed on august 14, 1968, by

Captain C. J. ANDERSON, Master of the British

Freighter

"Caribbean Venture" with regard to the danage which that

vessel suffered on August 8, 1968.

Lt. SMITH made available

= copy of this form which is attached.

On

8/21/68

_at Miami, Florida

_File #

Miami

45-1168

by

SA MICHAEL E. CRANE: ed

—Date dictated

8/27/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

14

DocId:32557728

Page 16

---

## Page 17

TREASURY DEPARTHENY

U. S. COAST GUARD

CG-2692 (Rev.: 4-61)

1. An original and two copies of this form shall be submitted,

without delay, to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, in

whose district the casualty occurred, or in whose district the

vessel first arrived after such casualty.

2. If the person making the report is a licensed officer on a ves-

sel required to be manned by such officer, he must make the

report in writing and in person to the proper flarine Inspector.

If because of distance it may be inconvenient for such en offi-

cer to submit the report in person, he may submit the required

number of copies by mail. However, to avoid delay in investi-

gations, it is desired that reports be submitted in person.

Form Approved Budget Bureau

REPORT OF VESSEL CASUALTY OR ACCIDENT

No. A8-R114.5

REPORTS CONTROL SYMBOL

MVI-A017

3. This form should be completed in full; blocks which do not

apply to a particular case should be indicated as "NA"

Where answers are unknown or none,

cated, as such.

All copies should be signed.

NOTE: (1) Report all deaths and injuries, which incapacitate

in excess of 72 hours, on CG-924E whether or not

there was a vessel casualty.

(2) Attach separate Form CG-924E to this report for

each person killed or injured and incapacitated in

excess of 72 hours as a result of the vessel

TO:

Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, Port of

MEANTI

DATE SUBMITTED

12-3-68

I PARTICULARS OF YESSEL

NAME OF VESSEL

2. OFFICIAL NUMBER

3.

HOME PORT

5. TYPE OF

CARTA VESSEL(FM,pa88., ekr., orc)

305:57

SNO: SOLE

6. PROPULSIÓN(Steam, dlesol, dic) 7.

GROSS

TONNAGE

4. NATIONALITY

BETATETT

8. REGISTERED LENGTH OR L.O.A.

IN IRE

ITESTAL

9. HULL FATERTALS

1502.40

1O. YEAR BUILT

11. RADIO

i QUIPMEN

3IT {t517

12. (a) RADAR EQUTPPED

I968

XI TRANSMIT

EE RECEIVE

CAVOICE

cw (Koy)

(D) IF YES. RADAR OPERATING AT TIME

OF CASUALTY

YES

NO

13. (8) CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION ISSUED

A.T

PORT OF

ITALIT

14. (2) NAME OF MASTER OR PERSON IN CHARGE (Indicalo which)

YES

NO

(D) DATE CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION ISSUED

NO DATE

(D) DATE OF

BIRTH

(C) LICENSED BY

COAST GUARD

1560) NAME OF PILOT if on Soar al Timo of accident"

26027032

YES

NO

(D) PILOT SERVING UNDER AUTHORITY

OF

LICENSE

ISSUED

BY

USCG

Vassal alance rass

STATE

FOREIGN

16. (2) NAME OF O#NER(S), OPERATORIS) OR AGENT (Indicato

(D) ADDRESS OF OWNER(S). OPERATOR(S). OR AGENT

Ounces

FICEALICE BUTTOLEGS, QUAYSIDE,

anachaining Canas

STICIAD

1I PARTICULARS OF CASUALTY

17. (a) DATE OF CASUALTY

(D) TIME OF CASUALTY(Local or

(c) ZONE DESCRIPTION

E-8-68

13I5 Fins,

(a) TIME OF DAY

I DAY

NIGHT

TWILIGHT

18. LOCATION OF CASUALTY (Lalltude and longitudo; dialence end TRUE boarind from charted objoct; dock; enchorago; esc.)

Pier No.3.MART.

19. BODY OF WATER (Goographical namo)

20: RULES OF THE ROAD APPLICABLE

_INLAND

INTERMATIONAL

OTHER (Specily)

21. (@ DID CASUALTY OCCUR WHILE UNDERMAY:

(D) IF YES. LAST. PORT OF DEPARTURE

YES

L

NO

GREAT LAKES

WESTERN RIVERS

(C)IF YES: WHERE SOUND MHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED

22. CE MEATHER CONDITIONS WHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED:

CLEAR

PARTLY CLOUDY

OVERCAST

FOG

(b) VISIBILITY (Miloo,yd8..li.,erc.)

(C) MIND DIRECTION

Lent airs.

23. (6) SEA CONDITIONS

WHEN

(D) SEA

MATER

TEMP

(C) HEIGHT OF SEA

CASUALTY

OCCURRED

(al avallablo)

RAIN

SNOY

(O FORCE IN KNOTS

I/2

(d) DIRECTION OF SEA

OTHER (Spocily)

(0)

GUSTY

YES

NO

(O) HEIGHT OF SWELL

(1) AIR TEMDERATURE

85

(1) DIRECTION OF

SHELL

24. (2) NATURE OF CARGO (Specily)

(D) AMOUNT OF DRY CARGO

(Long tona)

(C) AMOUNT OF BUIX LIQUID

(Long tona)

(d) AMOUNT OF DECK LOAD

(Long tona)

No cargo onboard

25. (2) DRAFT FORMARO,

(b) DRAFT AFT

I4'00*

26.(0) TYPES OF LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT USED.

IF ANY

NOBE

I4'06"

(D) NO LIVES SAYED

WITH LIFE.

(e) LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT SATIS.

SAVING EQUIPMENT

FACTORY

YES.

_ No (I1 no, explain in

(toon 34)

PREVIOUS EDITIONS ARE OBSOLETE

DocId; 32557728 Page 17

(Over)

15

---

## Page 18

27.

PASSENGERS

NUMBER ON BOARD

20

DEAD/MISSING

N217

nil

INCAPACITATED (Over 3 days)

29.

n12

nil

OTHER (Specily)

nil

nil

nil

NATURE OF THE CASUALTY (Check one or more of the following.

COLLISION WITH OTHER VESSEL (5) (Specify)

28

ESTIMATED

LOSS'DAMAGE

TO YOUR VESSEL

ESTIMATED

LOSS DAMAGE TO

YOUR CARGO

ESTIMATED LOSS'DAMAGE TO OTHER PROPERTY

(Specily whetho: vessel, dock, bridge, elc.)

Givo portinent details in item 30.)

XPLOSION/FIRer (Other)

inis

GROUNDING

FOUNDER (Sinking)

COLLISION WITH FLOATING OR SUBMERGED O8JECTS

CAPSIZING WITHOUT SINKING

COLLISION WITH FIXED OBJECTS (Piers, bridgea, etc.)

FLOODING.

SWAMPING, ETC. WITHOUT SINKING

COLLISION WITH ICE

HEAVY WEATHER DAMAGE

COLLISION WITH AIDS TO NAVIGATION

CARGO DAMAGE (No veggol damago)

COLLISION (Ochor)

MATERIAL FAILURE (Vessal atructure)

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving cargo)

MATERIAL FAILURE (Engineering machinory, including main

propulsion,

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving vossel'e fuel)

auxiliaries,

evaporators,: dock machinery,

electrical,

otc.)

FIRE (Vogsei"s atructure or equipment)

EQUIPMENT FAILURE

EXPLOSION (Bollar and assoclated parts)

CASUALTY NOT NAMED ABOVE

EXPLOSION (Pressure vessols and compressed fas cylinders)

30.

DESCRIPTION OF CASUALTY. (Events and circumstances leading to casualty and present when it occurred.: Attach dlagram end additional

sheets, if nocessary)

Bons explosion in way of lowes main seavater injection

31.

DAMAGE (Givo brol donoral doscription end state if veasol is a total loas.)

Foroard gid on Lower Hain Searater Injection Seabox blown off and floor plating

tumed into vessel's hull. After grid disapreared altogether with hole in vessel's

hull in that vicinity 55" x 32", vith hull plating tured into vessel. Plating

buckled with frastures into starboard sida of hole. A fractura ayor. 40" x 5"

to the centre of tha hole and abouù 12" aii of the hole.

Engine Roon conpletely under water and no detailed damage of Engine Room

machinery etc. rossible.

Ill ASSISTANCE AND RECOMMENDATIONS

32. AUTO ALARM TRANSMITTED BY YOUR VESSEL:

YES

NO

53(B) ASSISTANCE RENDERED BY

STATIONS

AND VESSELS (Include Coast

(b) OTHER ASSISTANCE RENDERED

Juard and other stations and vessela)

Coast Guard gave telerhone number from

Iondon Salvage Co.

where assistence could be obtained.

34

RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CORRECTIVE SAFETY MEASURES PERTINENT TO THIS CASUALTY (Includo explanalion of uneatlofactory Illosaving

equipment)

TITLE

NASIR.

GPO 953-157

(DocId 32557728

Page 18

---

## Page 19

30RiRev. 4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date

August 14, 1968

JOSEPA MOODY, U. S. Coast Guard, Miamt Beach,

Florida,

who is a diver attached to this Coast Guard Station,

was interviewed concerning the size and nature of the hole:

In the botton of the "Caribbean Venture."

MOODY has seven

years diving experience and during the course of this

experience has conducted a variety of underwater missions

for the U.S. Coast Guard.

After examining the underside of the "Caribbean

Venture",

wOODY stated that although the visibility was very

poor due

to the murky water and location of the ship, he

would estimate that the hole blown in the botton was approxi-

mately three feet wide and five feet long.

He stated this

hole was located amidships slightly to the starboard side,

and appears to have occurred in the area where two strainers.

or grills are located over the main water injection intake.

(After reviewing a sketch of the ship shown to him by the

Engineer,

MOODY stated this would appear to be in the area

of ribs 55, 56, and 57). MOODY stated that the strainers

or grills that are attached to the intakes are attached tỏ

the bottom of the ship with numerous bolts and that to take

Off one of these grills or strainers is a three or four.

hour job.

He stated that during the course of his Coast

Guard duties, he has, on occasion, removed such a strainer

and that is on what he bases his opinion.

MOODY advised that after observing the hole, he

would

say that the explosion was caused by an explosive

which was attached to one of the strainers or grills, inas

much as all metal in that area was blown inward.

He stated

he could not locate either one of the grills which should

be covering the intake, and that he presumes they were

either blown into the ship, o blown into pieces and fell

to the bottom of the harbor.

MOODY stated that in his opinion, the explosive

was attached to the grill, probably either by wire of some

type of toggling device by a swimmer who used air tanks.

MooDy advised that the hole in the botton of the

ship was large enough for both he and the diver from

On

8/8/68

_at

Miami, Florida

_File #

Miami

45-1168

SAS JOSEPH C. FRECHETTE and

by

MICHAEL. P. DOOHER JCF:ed

-Date dictated 8/13/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

DocId: 32557728

Page 19

---

## Page 20

MM 45-1168

the Dade County Public Safety Department to enter and

observe the interior.

He stated, however, that due

to the poor visibility, approximately one

foot, he was

unable to ascertain if any parts of the hull, the strainer,

or explosive devices were located inside.

MOODY stated that judging from his own past

experience, he would say that the explosive was attached

the strainer or grill by an experienced skin diver.

He stated this diver would, of necessity, have had to

use underwater swimming tanks inasmuch as he knows of

no one who could have accomplished such a feat without

the aid of tanks. He stated that he believes that in this

Ship, or any other ship, the injection intakes can be

located by an experienced diver by merely locating the

snokestack on the ship and proceeding across the hull

dead center from the stack.

The intake could then be

located by swimming either 15 or 20 feet fore or aft

frOm

that

section.

moody stated, however, that in

order to locate anything on the underside

of the ship;

It takes a very experienced diver either using the seams

of the ship, or a compass in order to keep fron getting

disoriented

due

to the darkness.

MOODY stated that

he believes that this hold

was made by & "shape charge".

DocId:32557728

Page

20

---

## Page 21

FD-302. (Rev. 4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1

August 27, 1968

Date

Lt. JOSEPH J. SMITH, Officer in Charge,

Marine

Inspection Division, U. S. Coast Guard, 501 N. P.

Ist

Avenue,

Room

301, Miami, Florida, advised that a

Report

on Vessel Casbalty or Aceident (U. S. Treasury Department

form No. CG 2032), was completed on August 12, 1968, by-

Captain C. J. ANDERSON, Master of the British

Freighter

"Caribbean Venture" with regard to the damage which that

vessel suffered on August 8, 1968.

Lt. SHITH made available

a copy of this form which is attached.

On

8/21/68

-at Miami, Florida

_File #

Miami 45-1168

by +

SA

MICHAFL E. CRANE: ed

Date dictated

8/27/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency:

14

?

DocId:32557728

Page 21

---

## Page 22

TREASURY DEPARTHER

U. S. COAST GUARD

CG-2692 (Rev.. 4-61)

REPORT OF VESSEL CASUALTY OR ACCIDENT

Form Approved Budget Bureau

No. 18-R114.5

REPORTS CONTROL SYMBOL

• INSTRUCTIONS

1. An original and two copies of this form shall be submitted,

3. This form should be completed in fúll; blocks which do not

without delay, to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, in

apply to a particular case should be indicated as

whose district the casualty occurred,

of in whose district the

Where answers are unknown or none, they should be indi-

vessel first arrived after such casualty.

cated. as such.

2. If the person making the report is a licensed officer on a ves-

All copies should be signed.

NOTE: (1) Report all deaths and injuries, which incapacitate

sel required to be manned by such officer, he must make the

in excess of 72 hours, on CG-924E whether or not

report in writing and in person to the proper Marine Inspector.

there was a vessel casualty.

If because of distance it may be inconvenient for such en offi-

(2) Attach separate Forn CG-924E to this report for

cer to submit the report in person, he may submit the required.

each person killed or injured and incapacitated in

number of copies by mail. However, to avoid delay in investi-

excess of 72 hours as a result of the vessel

gations, it is desired that reports be submitted in person.

casualty reported herein.

TO:

DATE SUBMITTED

Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, Port of frANTI

I2-8-68

1. NAME UF VESSEL

2.

OFFICIAL NUMBER

306141

6. PROPULSION(Stoam, diesol, oic)

TOTENTI

9. HULL GATERTALS EE

SamaT,

12. (8) RADAR EQUIPPED

YES

NO

13. (2) CERTIFICATE OF

INSPECTION ISSUED AT PORT OF

ISTANI

14. (2) NAME OF MASTER OR PERSON IN CHARGE (Indicelo shich)

12222909

15(0) NAME OF PILOT TIl On DOC a lico or accidents

Vasaal alonmidea

16. (2) NAME OF O#NER(S), OPERATORiS) OR AGENT (Indicato which)

Or mose

I PARTICULARS OF VESSEL

3: HOME PORT

ANO: SOLS

GROSS TONNAGE

A. NATIONALITY.

BRITCH

8. REGISTERED LENGTH OR L.O.A.

110. YEAR BUILT

I953

IT. RADIO EQUEAT AD

3IT $F17.

TRANSMIT

RECEIVE

Cw (Key)

(D) IF YES. RADAR

OPERATING

AT TIME.

OF CASUALTY

YES

NO

(D) DATE

CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION

ISSUED

TO DANE.

(b) DATE OF

BIRTH

(c)

LICENSED BY

COAST

GUARD

26rII.32

SERVING UNDER AUTHORITY OF LICENSE ISSUED

FOREIGY

(D) ADDRESS OF OWNER(S). OPERATOR (5). OR AGENT

ENCHMICE BUILDINGS, QUAYSIDE,

11 PARTICULARS OF CASUALTY

17.(0) DATE OF CASUALTY

(D) TIME OF CASUALTY(Local or

(e) ZONE DESCRIPTION

rono)

I315

Fissio

(a) TIME OF DAY

LE DAY

J NIGHT

18. LOCATION OF CASUALTY: (Lalltudo and longliude; diaiance end TRUE boarina from chariod objoct; docki enchoragu; orc.)

TWILIGHT

Pier No.3 MUNaT.

19. BODY OF MATER (Goographical namo)

20. RULES OF THE ROAD APPLICABLE

INTERMATIONAL

YES

NO

INLAND

OTHER (Spocily)

GREAT LAKES

WESTERN RIVERS

21. (2)010 CASUALTY OCCUR WHILE UNDERWAY:

(D) IF YES. LAST. PORT OF DEPARTURE

(C)IF YES, WHERE BOUND WHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED

22. (e) WEATHER CONDITIONS WHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED:

CLEAR

PARTLY CLOUDY

OVERCAST

FOG

RAIN

SNOW

(D) VISIBILITY (Milos, yde.,le.,orc.)

(.c)

WIND DIRECTION

FORCE IN KNOTS

Ligar airs.

I/2

23. (a) SEA

CONDITIONS

WHEN| (D) SEA

wATER

TEMP

(e) HEIGHT OF SEA

(d DIRECTION OF

SEA.

CASUAL TY

OCCURRED

• (71 avallabio)

OTHER (Spocily)

(o) GUSTY

YES

NO

(0) HEIGHT

OF

SWELL

(1) AIR TEMPERATURE

(1) DIRECTION OF

SWELL

24. (2) MATURE OF CARGO (Specily)

(D) AMOUHT

OF DRY CARGO

(Long tona)

(e) AMOUNT OF

BUlK LIQUID

(Long lone)

(d) AMOUNT OF DECK LOAD

(Long tone)

No cargo onboard

25. (E) DRAFT FORWARD,

(b) DRAFT AFT

I4'00"

26. (O) TYPES OF LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT USED. TE ANY :

NOUG

PREVIOUS EDITIONS

ARE OBSOLETE

I4'05"

(b) NO.

LIVES SAVED

WITH LIFE.

(C) LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT SATIS.

SAVING EQUIPMENT

FACTORY

YES

NO (al no, explaln in

liem 34)

15

(Over)

DocId:32557728 • Page 22

---

## Page 23

27

PASSENGERS

NUMBER ON

COARD

20

DEAD/MISSING

nil

271

INCAPACITATEO (over 3 days)

nil

nil

OTHER (Specily)

nil

172

ni.?

29.

NATURE OF THE CASUALTY (Check ono or more of the lollowing.

COLLISION WITH OTHER VESSEL (S) (Spoclly)

28

$

$

COLLISION WITH FLOATING OR SUBMERGED OBJECTS

COLLISION

WITH FIXED OBJECTS (Plers, bridges, erc.)

COLLISION WITH ICE

COLLISION WITH AIDS TO NAVIGATION

COLLISION (Other)

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving cardo)

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving vessel's fuel)

FIRE (Vessel's atructure or equipment)

EXPLOSION (Bollor and associated parts)

ESTIMATED LEÓS 'DAMAGE TO YOUR VESSEL

ESTIMATED LOSS DAMAGE TO YOUR CARGO

ESTIMATED LOSS DAMAGE TO OTHER PROPERTY

(Spocity wholho: vessel, dock, bridge, elc.)

Give portinent details in item 30.)

XPLOSION/ FIRE-(Other

-- - d..

GROUNDING

FOUNDER (Sinking)

CAPSIZING HITHSHT SINKING

FLOODING. SWAMPING.

ETC. WITHOUT SINKING

"-~-

HEAVY WEATHER DAMAGE

CARGO DAMAGE (No vessel damago)

MATERIAL FAILURE (Vessel structure)

MATERIAL

FAILURE

(Engineering machinery, including main

propulsion, auxiliaries,

boilers,

evaporatora,: dock

machinery,

eloctrical,

etc.)

EQUIPMENT FAILURE

CASUALTY NOT NAMED ABOVE

EXPLOSION (Pressure vossols and compressed gas cylinders)

30.

DESCRIPTION OF CASUALTY. (Events and circumstances leading to casualty and present whon it occurred.. Altach diagram and additional

shoets, ll nocessary).

Bond explosion in way of loves main seavater injection

31. DAMAGE (Givo brol donoral description end state ll vessel is a total loaa.)

Forced eid on lower Main Saarater Injection Seabor blown off and floos plating

rumed into vessel's hull. After grid disappeared altogather wiün hole in vesselle

hull in that vicinity 55" x 32", viti hull plating tumed into vessel. Plating

buckled with frautures into starboard side of hole. A fractuca appari. 40" x 5".

to the centna of tina hole and about 12" ali of the hole.

Engine Roon conpletaly under water and no detailed damage of Engine Room

nachinery etc. rossible.

Ill ASSISTANCE AND RECOMMENDATIONS

32: AUTO ALARM TRANSMITTEO BY YOUR VESSEL:

YES

NO

33(a) ASSISTANCE RENDERED BY STATIONS

(D) OTHER ASSISTANCE. RENDERED

Coast Guara gave telephone nunber from

where assisience coald be obtained.

London Salvage Co.

RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CORRECTIVE SAFETY MEASURES PERTINENT TO THIS CASUALTY (Includo explanation of unsailalactory Illosaviné

equipment)

TITLE

SIGNATURE

MASTER®

10% Oll

GPO 952-157

DocIda32557728 Page 23

1 6

---

## Page 24

4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date

August 14, 1968

JOSEPH MOODY, U. S. CoRst Guard, Miamt Beach,

Florida, who is a diver attached to this Coast Guard Station,

was interviewed concerning the sire and nature of the hole

In the botton of the "Caribbean Venture."

MOODY has seven

gears diving experience and during the course of this

experience has conducted a variety of underwater missions

for the U. S, Coast Guard.

After examining the underside of the "Caribbean

Venture",

wooDy stated that although the visibility was very

poor due

to the murky water and location of the ship, he

would estimate that the hole blown in the bottom was approxi-

mately three feet wide and five feet long. He stated this

hole was located amidships slightly to the starboard side,

and appears to have occurred in the area where two strainers

or grills are located over the main water injection intake.

After reviewing a sketch of the ship shown to him by the

Engineer, MOODY stated this would appear to be in the area

of ribs 55, 56, and 57). MOODY stated that the strainers

or grills that are attached to the intakes are attached tỏ

the bottom of the ship with numerous bolts and that to take

off one of these grills or strainers is a three or four-

nour job.

He stated that during the course of his Const

Guard duties, he has, on occasion, removed such a strainer

and that is on what he bases his opinion.

HOODY advised that after observing the bole, he

would say that the explosion was caused by an explosive

which was attached to one of the strainers or grills, inas-

much as all metal in that area was blown inward. He stated

he could not locate either one of the grills which should

be covering the intake, and that he presumes they were

either blow into the ship, o blow into pieces and fell

to the bottom of the harbor..

no barbar art

MOODY stated that in his opinion, the explosive

was attached to the grill, probably either

by wire of some

type of toggling device by a swimmer who used air tanks.

MOODY advised that the hole in the botton of the

ship was large enough for both he and the diver from

8/8/68

On

at

Miami, Florida

-_File #

_Miami 45-1168

SAS JOSEPH C. FRECHETTE and

by

MICHAEL P. DOOHIR JCF:ed

-Date dictated 8/13/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

47

DocId: 32557728

Page 24

---

## Page 25

i.

MM 45-1168

the Dade County Public Safety Department to enter and

observe the interior.

He stated, however, that due

to the poor visibility, approximately one

foot, he was

unable to ascertain if any parts of the hull, the strainer,

or explosive devices were located inside.

MOODY stated that judging from his own past

experience,

he would say that the explosive was attached

to the strainer or grill by an experienced skin diver.

He stated this diver would, of necessity, have had to

use underwater swimming tanks inasmuch as he knows of

no one who could have accomplished such a feat without

the sid of tanks. He stated that he believes that in this

ship, or any other ship, the injection intakes can be

located by an experienced diver by merely locating the

Sinokestack on the ship and proceeding across the hull

dead center from the stack.

located by swimming either

15 or 20 feet fore or aft

trom

that section.

MOoDY stated, however, that in

order to locate anything on the underside

of the ship,

It takes a very experienced diver either using the seams

of the ship, or a compass

In order to keep fron getting

disoriented

due to the darkness.

MoodY stated that he believes that this hold

was made by y "shape charge".

48

DocId: 32557728

Page

25

---

