# docid-32289507

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Dáte:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10201-10283

HQ

92-2781-562

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/08/1962

4

LST, REL, TRA, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST RE VIEW :

-10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

t.

v9.1

DocId: 32289507

29

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Transmit the following in

Via

Date:

6/8/62

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR

MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (92-88) (P)

RE:

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

AR

(00: Tampa)

Re Tampa airtel to the Bureau dated 5/25/62.

WEEKLY AIRTEL SUMMARY

on 6/6/62, subject was observed to visit the

Eastern Airlines (EAL) Administration Building, Miami

International Airport (MIA), Miami, Fla. Investigation

determined subject attempted to contact Mr. JOSEPH SPOTO

PITISCI who is Superintendent of Engine Overhaul, EAL.

PITISCI advised on 6/7/62, that he is originally from

Tampa and his stap-mother's brother is PAUL LONGO, whO

is married to subject's aunt. PITISCI advised he left

Tampa in 1931 and has been employed by EAL for 33 years.

He said he last saw subject 10 years ago at the funeral

of PITISCI's father. PITISCI advised he attended a

wedding in Tampa two weeks ago and told subject's brother,

FRANK TRAFFICANTE, Who was also there, where he was located

in Miami. PITISCI advised after returning from a meeting

in the afternoon of 6/6/62, his secretary told him he had

a caller named "SANTO"

did not see the subject on that date.

who apparently had not waited as he

B - Bureau (AM)

- Татра (92-1) (АМ)

2 - WRO CAM NOT 5 1962

2 - Miamf u

JLM: bam

23.4

(9)

Subject was observed to visit the office of Dr.

REC- 9

92-2781

-562

EX 105

Approved:

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32289507 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-88

CARLOS ALVAREZ, PSI (protect), advised on

5/23/62, that he had observed subject's car at the

Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach,

early on the morning

of 5/22/62.

He said

on the night of 5/21/62, and

morning of 5/22/62, he had observed numerous known -

gamblers, (including (FNU) BRADY, who is frequently seen

with the

subject, JOE FISCHETTI, TONY RANDAZZO, HARRY

SNOW and

MAX RAYMOND.

Tax Records, Hialeah, Fla. City Hall, reflect

from SALVATORE

G. SCALIA on 1/18/61.

City of Miami telephone Directory contains no

person named SALVATORE G. SCALIA.

JAMES DUCA interviewed on 5/24/62, in connection

with another investigation, advised he and the subject

are old friends having been raised together in Tampa, Fla.

He said the subject recently told him the fBl would never

put him in jail, but they were going to "worry him to

death".

Subject's car was observed in garage at his

residence, 523 N.E. 71st St., Miami, Fla., on 6/8/62.

LEADS:

TAMPA:

AT TAMPA, FLA.:

Will attempt to locate SALVATORE G. SCALIA

and interview him re the sale of the property at 657, W.

34th St., Hialeah, to FRANK LAGANO.

Will contact sources in an attempt to determine

whether or not subject plans to leave country and what

his destination will be.

WASHINGTON FIELD:

AT WASHINGTON, D.C.:

J1.18

DocId: 32289507 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 92-88

Will check passport office at State Department

to determine if a passport has recently been issued to

subject and his wife.

Description of subject is as

follows:

Born

Residence

Complexion

Height

Weight

Build

Hair

Eyes

11/15/14, at Tampa,

Florida

523 N.E. 71st St.,

Miami, Florida

Light

and rough

5'10₴"

180

Medium

Light brown, scarce and gray

Hazel-blue,

wears contact

lenses, and regular horn-

rimmed

and colored glasses.

MIAMI:

AT MIAMI, FLA.:

Will recontact CARLOS ALVAREZ, PSI, fOr mOre

intormation re alleged meeting of gamblers at Fontainebleau

Hotel on 5/21 and 22/62, and whether subject might

possibly have another car as the 1961 white Falcon he

normally uses was parked at MIA on morning of 5/22/62, when

ALVAREZ states the subject's car was parked at the Fontaine-

bleau Hotel.

Will continue investigation of subject's activities

in an attempt to determine if subject is planning to leave

the country.

4*

DocId:32289507

Page 4

---

