# docid-32303525

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY :

RECORD. NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10284-10037

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 100-42303-644

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

MADVAY, J. EDWARD

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 06/12/1959

PAGES:

25

SUBJECTS :

SMO, ASSOC, AFFIL, MAFIA, BKG, CRIMINAL ACT,

GAMBLING, NUMBERS, GUNS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32303525

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PG 94=363

ADMINISTRATIVE (cont'd)

It is noted that the "pittsburgh press," a Pittsburgh dally

newspaper, started a series of articles about the Mafia.

basis for this series is FREDERIC SONDERN's book, "Brotherhood

of Evil": The Mafia.

INFORMANTS

PG T-1 1S. PCI OLIVER FRANCHI, contacted by SA GENE H. STUDEBAKER.

PG I-2 iS PCI FRED "Botch" LORENZI, contacted by SA GENE H.

STUDEBAKER.

LEADS

BUFFALO - Information

One information copy of this report designated for Buffalo,

the office covering the activities of FRANK VALENTI.

- A -

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32303525

Page

---

## Page 3

PG 94-363

MONONGAHE LA, PA.

on April 28, 1959, PG I-I, who has furnished reliable

information in the past, was recontacted for additional

information he might have about Mafia activities.

PG I-I stated that during the Prohibition Years he had a

close association with the Italian criminal element in

Mononganela, Pa

and

any time a crime was committed peopleewould refer to the

Mafia as being responsible for the crime.

did not doubt but what the Mafia did exist in the past

mentioned nad

He said that he

because as previously mentioned his father-in-law, deceased,

received a threatening letter from the

"Black Hand."

He

Mafia exists today because

the leaders of the Italian criminal element of the early

1930's have matured, become wiser

and those who were

probably. Mafa members went into many

types oi successiul

businesses and as a result it was nolonger necessary for

them to have close ties and use physical violence to make

a livelihood.

He added that he felt that the development of

better law enforcement agencies and better and more honest

politicians has had something to do with the discontinuance

of the Mafia.

He again stated that he had no specific knowledge

regarding the activities of the Mafia and did not know of any

given person who was a member of such a group.

On May 6, 1959, PG T-2, who has furnished reliable information

in the past, furnished

the following information.

PG T-2 stated that he has lived all of his life in the

vicinity of Monongahela, Pa., and when 10 to 15 years of age

he remembered his parents, aunts and uncles often referred to

the "Black Hand" and Mafia.

He said that when a major crime

was committed the

"it was

no knowledge of any person who was a member of the Mafia and

does not believe that such an organization exists in

Monongahela or vicinity at

the present time.

He stated that

which threatened to kidnap his daughter if he did not make

certain payments. PG T-2 explained that his uncle was a

- 16 -

DocId: 32303525 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG. 94-363

bootlegger and operated a speak-easy in Monongahela in the

late 1920's and early 1930's, and that he did not cooperate

with the Mafia and as a result received the threats. He said

that to his knowledge his uncle never paid the Mafia and that

he recalled his uncle always carried a revolver during that

period of time. He said neither his uncle nor anyone else

mentioned names of individuals who were members of the Mafia

and that he never determined that

any specific individual was

a member of the Mafia.

LO CASTRO was questioned relative to his deceased father,

who was listed as a Maria suspect by the Kefauver Committee

in 1952 and by the United States Narcotics Bureau, and whether

his father, LEONARD LO CASTRO, SR., had ever been

the victim

of an extortion threat.

LO CASTRO

replied in the negative

and continued that his

father was

born in Sicily and migrated

to this country in 1898.

From 1898 until his death two years ago, LO CASTRO stated,

his father spent the majority of his time in Erie as he was

a self-employed proprietor of a fruit and produce company

and later a small grocery store in the vicinity of 16th and

Myrte Streets in Erie. He was the father of 12 children, all

of whom were born in

the United States and, according to

LO CASTRO, had never been in any trouble with the police'

department.

LO CASTRO continued that if his father had ever been in

trouble or had ever been troubled by any person or organized

gang, he felt sure that he would have known about it.

He went on to state that to the best of his knowledge his

father had no known connections with any known criminals in

the Erie area or any other area.

The individuals listed below were contacted by SA J. EDWARD

KeRN on the dates noted, and all advised that they knew of

no individuals who might be connected with, or continuing

the practices of, the Mafia in the Johnstown,

Pa., area

at

the present time. All of the individuals contacted have

been in police work in this area for over 10 years, and all

wouldebe in a position to know if the Mafia was active:

- 17 -

DocId: 32303525 Page 4

---

