# docid-32336878

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90135-10273

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

105-82298-108

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 56829 Date:

04-13-2018

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

USA

USA

DATE: 02/13/1961

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF USA

COMMENTS: RPT; REFERRED TO USA

v9.1

HH 56829

19

DocId: 32336878

Page 1

---

## Page 2

REPORT. NO.

1D.

• PAGE NO:

* 11

FROM

FOURTH T.S. ARMy

(Classification)

CON DENTIAL

HH 56829

Comandante - one gold star on each epaulet

Comandante who is chief of a province - star with a

circle

Ministry of Defense - Shield with star in center on

epaulets

Militiamen Uniform:

The trousers worn by both army per-

sonnel

and militia-nen are identical: dark olive green. However,

all militiamen vear a light blue shirt of the type vorn by farm

workers in the U.S. All militia-ten wear black French-type berets.

Black low quartersshoes or either black or brown combat boots may

be worn with the uniform. In general, all militia-ren uniforms

None of the militia wear ranks in

line with their there of equality. However, some of the nore

eccentric chiers do wear sone insignia in individual cases to

advertise their positions, but the exact type or types of insignia

is unknown to source.

1% (C) INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY AGENCIES: 10

C-2 - The Chief is Ramiro

Valdes - The G-2 for the Cuban Revolutionary Forces (ORD) represents all the

military and civilian agencies alike.

As such he also supervised all G-2's of. Cuba

the other armed forces. He has unquestionable control over all investigations

both within Cuba and abroad. C-2 personnel in Cuba have been likened to "gestapos"

in both tactics, procedures, and pover.

Although source has no personal Iowledge

of the key G-2 personnel outside of Valdes, he is aware that nost of their key

personalities have been recruited from the ranks of the Socialist Youth of Cuba,

a moin Communist youth organization.

One other facet of this organization is

the fact that although Valdes is nominally the appointed head and chief of 5-2,

the person that answers to Castro direct on all intelligence matters is Falbio

Bravo, who is the replacement personally appointed to take the place vacated by.

the former head who was recently killed in a light aircraft accident.

2. G-5 - The head Inspector General is William Galvez; nothing further

to report.

Investigations Department, Office of the Cuban Prime Minister -

Dissolved in late 1960 or early 1961; nothing further Inorn.

Investigations Department; National Institute for Agrarian

Reform

Antonio Nunez Jimenez, Head.

5.

Technical Judicial Police - Dissolved at sone unrecalled

time and

absorbed by the National Police.

Movement of Revolutionary Workers - Not Inown to source. He believes

it to be the same as the Cuban Federation of Labor (CTC).

% Connittee of Revolutionary Women - Vilma Espin, Wife of Raul Castro,

President.

20.

(C) \SUSVERSIVE ORGANIZATIONS: I. The Popular Socialist Party - Blas

Foca - Secretary General.

the

-sisth of July Movement -

millo

ragones, Heade

dubad

nary Directorate:

DocId: 32336878

Page 2

---

## Page 3

purges.

90135-10273

(C) 'ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES: Source claims that he has very little in

the way of definitive information on the counter-revolutionary movements. However,

he does recall having heard variously fron unrecalled sources that there is an

estimated 600 counter-revolutionists located within the Escambray Mountains.

does not know the names of any of the opposition leaders nor of any connections

these groups may have with exile elements in the United States.

Neither does he

have any idea as to their planned operations or aims.

What he does know;is that

it has been reported to him variously fron unrecalled sources that because of

militia raids and patrols, these counter-revolutionist have been forced to remain

well dispersed; in addition, it is also reported that they are not too vell equip-

ped with the result that, to date, they have been unable to consunmate any formid-

able attacks and therefore pose no particular threat to the Castro regime. Source

is of the opinion that such forces would serve to be successful and effective if

not annoying to the Castro regime but lack the proper orgenization and leadership.

22. (C) CUBAN CIVILIAN MILITIA:

Source stated that to his nouledge, there

is a force of approximately 30,000 (sic) combined Castro militia and military cuba

of the Castro fortifications.

reginent oi militia assigned to each province, source has no definite owledge

of the names of its principal or subordinate connanders, weapons, strength, status

etco de does recall that the militia comandanteat Cameguey Province

cubajor ora Papitatersuers and that Paul Castro and (mandolicosta are the thiers of

the tactical forces within Oriente Province. Source added that consonant with

(Fidel Castro's concerted effort to centralize and nationalize all of Cuba, one

of his prime objectives has been to nullify the potentiality and fighting effective-

ch

ness of the original Rebel Army which fought Batista. Along these lines, the

former Regular Arny virtually lost its identity and is nethodically being replaced

in stratogic positions with trusted pro-Castro militia-men. Army personnel have

been constantly shifted to prevent them fron consolidating and they are relegated

to such menial tasks as road building, crop harvesting and other such agrarian

but un military type duties.

In Castro's nind, it is his intention to verge the

militia with the more trustworthy elenents of the arned forces into a single en-

tity loyal only to Castro himself. Towards that end, it is source's impression

that. Castro has been eminently successful, since armed forces personnel and former

Rebel irmy forces have bean so distributed and scattered and kept on the nove that

it is not possible for them to band together into any effective fighting group of

on detailed order of battle information.

and total lack of organization within the Cuban Armed Forces, this confusion was

designed to prevent any military coups d'etat fron formulating; and since the Rebel

Army had no distinct Table of Organization or

strength breakdown, neither does the

present arned forces or the militia follow any such distribution

or orderliness.

Commanders are usually district chiefs and not even they are ever totally aware

of whon or how many woops they have under their control at any given time.

It

is source's opinion that Castro has been able to continue to retain control of

Cuba by taking advantage of and perhaps even fostering this anomaly of deranged

disorder within the Cuban Arned Forces to impose some method to his madness.

(Classification)

CON IDENTAL

HH 56829

DooId:32336878

Page

---

## Page 4

90135-10273

REPORT NO.:

ID:

PAGE NO..::

10

FROM FOURTH U.S. ARMY

(Classification)

COND IDENTIAL

Lazero Pena - Inown Connist Pardu Member.

cubaie

nai bare onto - lana Comantet Party member

16. (0) ORDER OF BATTLE: Source stated that because

he

has been virtually

on a reserve status since Castro reorganized the armed forces, he is not aware of

the composition; strength, organization, materiel, leadership, or training of the

current Cuban Revolutionary Army.

However, one fact which he is certain of is

that the norale of that portion of the Revolutionary Arned Forces with which he

does come in contect is decidedly lou, and windling daily, and desertiong are fan

apant. mIt is source!s belief/that a larger

majority of the original Rebel Arny is

and has never been, Commistically inclined. As la matter of fact eroc

cancer aneup or, most of, the revolu

tioner less they vere interested ormerily

in ridding. Cuba of the Batista dictator-

# ship. And with the present Inflitration of Inown Cormunist elerents, most of these

original revolutionaries are in a quandary as to their true status.

Their relation-

ships within the Rebel Arry in connection with the Castro regine have steadily

worsened, mainly because of Castro's open distrust of them as brought out in his

replacerent of Rebel Aray men in strategic positions with militia personnel.

is all part and parcel of Castro's aim of surrounding hinself with only those lieu-

tenants whom he can trust imolicitly and who will follow him blindly.

Source feels

also that virtually all key staff position personnel in the Rebel Army have been

replaced by well known commnists.

As examples, Comandante Felix Torres; Comandante

Armando Acosta, who is in comrand

of the Las Villas area; and Comandante Juan

Escalona, the assistant to Raul Castro; are all known to be established Communist

Party members.

17. (C) SECURITY AND DEFENSE/MEASURES IN CERTAIN INSTALIATIONS: Source stated

that he is, unaware of any of the security and defense measures which may be in effect

in any of the following named installations.

In his estination, they are indefen-

sible with the present capabilities of the Cuban Armed Iorces, and can be considered

to be completely vulnerable to any concentrated, organized attack.

l' Airfield at San Antonio de los Banos

20

Jose Marti International Airport.

3o La Cabana Fortress (Mavana)

to Castillo de Atares. (Havana)

So Campo Libertad Airfield (Havana)

6.. IRA Building (Havana)

7o Managus Aruy Camp (Appr 15 miles SE of Havana)

(C) UNIFORMS AND INSIGNIAS: Rebel Arry: Their uniforms are made from

the same tropical worsted material which is worn by l.S.. troops during the surmer

with the exception that they are dark olive green in color.

Both officers and en-

listed personnel wear identical uniforms.

The cap used is identical to the U.s.

Arry field cap or fatigue cap without stiffeners or ranis; within the Cuban Revolu

tionary Army, they are known as "combat caps." One other cap often used for dif-

ferent occasions is a garrison type cap with visor similar to that issued to the

french Army

Officers are distinguished by this cap with gold braid on the visor

together with rank insignia.

Still others tear black Trench beret type caps; there

is no exact uniformity in the hats or uniforms worn.

NH. 56829 DooId: 32336878

8. Page 12:9 -

1

---

## Page 5

90135>10213

REPORT NO: ID:

PAGE NO..

.:. :10

FROM FOURTH U.S. ARMY

(Classification)

CONT IDENTIAL

Lazero Pena - Inon Cornist Parlu Member

cuba

Anibel/scalanto - Laoiza Communist Parly Member

16. (C)

ORDER OF BATTLE:

Source stated that because he has been virtually

on a reserve status since Castro reorganized the armed forces, he is not avare of

the composition, strength, organization, nateriel, leadership, or training of the

current Cuben Revolutionary Arny.

However, one fact which he is certain of is

that the morale of that portion of the Revolutionary Arned Forces with which he

does come contacts cecidedyourandavindling daily, and desertions are rain-

pant. It is source's beliery that a larger majority

not, and has never been, Comanistically Inclinede Asla matter

and politics generated he mences teneup or, nost of, the revolu

atronaries, they were interested primarily in riddingiCuba of the Batista dictator-

Uship. And with the present infiltration of Inown Comminist elements, most of these

original revolutionaries are in a quandary as to their true status.

Their relation-

ships within the Rebel Arry in connection with the Castro regime have steadily

worsened, mainly because of Castro's open distrust of them as brought out in his

replacerent of Rebel Army men in strategic positions with militia

personnel.

is all part and parcel of Castro's aim of surrounding himself with only those lieu-

tenants whom he can trust implicitly and who vill follow him blindly.

also that virtually all key staff position personnel in the Rebel Arry have been

replaced by well known commists.

As examples, Comandante Felix Torres; Comandante

Armando Acosta, who is in command

of the Las Villas area; and Comandante Juan

Escalona, the assistant to Raul Castro; are all known to be established Communist

Party menbers.

17 (C) SECURITY AND DEFENSE MEASURES IN CERTAIN INSTALLATIONS: Source stated

is unaware of any of the security and defense measures which may be in effect

in any of the following named installations.

In his estination, they are indefen-

s101e with the present capabilitles of the Cuban Armed l'orces, and can be considered

to be completely vulnerable to any concentrated, organized attack.

ló Airfield at San Antonio de los Banos

2o Jose Marti International Airport

3o La Cabana Fortress (Havana)

Lo Castillo de Atares. (Havans)

5o Campo Liberted Airfield (Havana)

6.. INRA Building (Havana)

7o. Manague Aruy Camp (Appr 15 miles SE of Havana)

(C) UNIFORMS AND INSIGNIAS: Rebel Army: Their uniforns are nade from

the same tropical worsted material which is worn by .S.. troops during the summer

with the exception that they are dark olive green in color.

Both officers and en-

listed personnel wear identical uniforms.

The cap used is

identical to the U.S.

Army field cap or fatigue cap without stiffeners or rank; within the Cuban Revolu

tionary Army, they are known as "combat caps."

One other cap often used for dif

ferent occasions is & garrison type cap with visor similar to that issued

to the

french Army.

Officers are distinguished by this cap with gold braid on the visor

together with rank insignia.

is no exact uniformity in the hats or uniforns worn.

Still others wear black French beret type caps; there

Banks:

Inlisted men (stripes are gold in color):

Soldier, - no stripes

Private First Class - one stripe

Corporal - two stripes

Sergeant - three stripes

Sergeant Major - four stripes (three up and one

parellel)

Officers:

Sub-lieutenant - One gold bar on each epaulet

Lieutenant - two gold bars on each epaulet

Captain - three gold bars on each epaulet

(Classification)

CONF IDENT IAI

1192+623

56829

DocId: 32336278

Page 5

---

## Page 6

REPORT NO. ID

PAGE NO.

FROM FOURTH U.S. ARMY

(Classification)

CONFIDENTIAL

(C) ANTI-AIRCRAFT BATTALION: According to source, a total of approxi-

nately 10,000 revolutionary soldiers have been trained in the use of anti-aircraft

weapons at Pinar del Rio; militia chiefs have received identical training at

Matanzas.

Ilowever, the actual training sites, type and degree of training, etces

are unknown to source.' He does recall it mentioned that instructors employed were

mostly of Czech extraction. He denied any knowledge of a particular anti-aircraft

battalion presently or previously amployed in cuba.

12. (C) RURAL POLICE: According to source, the Fural Police, per se, no

longer exists.

At one time, exact period unrecalled, there were plans made

establish such a Rural Police organization and an acadeny was organized to effect

However, the entire matter lasted but about 30 days and was dropped

(C) SOVIRT BLOC ARMS AND EQUIPMIT: Source stated that he has no per-

sonal knowledge concerning the type, numbers, capabilities, or any other information

on Soviet Bloc arms and equipnent which might have been brought into Cuba.

reiterated that he and his group were issued only obsolete and older equipment

while all foreign and never type weapons were passed to the civilian militia.

I (C) POLITICAL INFLINCE: In source's decided opinion, at the time of

his departure from Cuba, the only group which can be considered to be at all loyal

to the Castro regine is the Civilian Militia, and the loyalty stens nore fron

Castro's constant reminders to then that they are the principal force to deter

invasion from outsiders than any deep seated allegiance either to Castro or his

regime.

With regard to the militia-ren, source feels that they are composed mostly

of farners and workers and generally people without any actual combat experience.

As a résult, their very wearing of uniforns, standing guard duty and participating

in parades are treated more in the light of boy scout games than as 'à formidable

military force.

for the same reasos, source feels that, should any major opposition

be imposed upon the militia, they would cormence to scatter, disband, and disinte-

grate in disorder.

Along the same lines, source feels that a majority of the key

militia chiefs is not in total agreement with all of Castro's extreme policies;

however, the dread and fear of imprisorment, reprisals and death are the only forces

which keep them in line.

Coupled with this is the undeniable fact that with the

nationalization.of all industries and business, they all realize that their jobs

and very existence, as well as that of their families, depend to a great degree on

their outward enthusiasm for militio affairs, since everything is now being con-

trolled by the government, no matter what and where their personal sentiments night

1ie.

Source is of the opinion that this drive for survival more than any singular

allegiance to the regime is the prime motivating factor holding the militia to-

gether, and accounts for its apparent

15.' (C) POSSIBLE DIPECTORS: In source's estimation, the following is a list

of high Cuban officials who are the most apt to defect or

join counter revolution-

aries, if given the opportunity.

Source bases this assumption on the statements

made by then in his presence in reaction to current affairs in Cuba.

Arredo lagura - Unister of Jartient

aranjo - Minister of Governrent

Faustino arez • reminister of Recuperation of Properties

(fau) Otuski

- Ex-minister of Comnications

Noelio ursoli - Secretary General of the Confederation of Cuban

Workers

Comandante Rolando, Cubela - Presidente of the Federation of. Uni-

Genarot

STOL

Counter

to-therabove,

sourcer decuared.

officials are

the

ones he deems

most dedicated to opposing

the United States and

its policies:

Comandante Felix Torres - how Comunist Party member

Comandante

Comandante Ramiro Valdes - Chief of C2

Armandy Acosta - Known Communist Party men i er

Blas

oca - secretary tenerad of the lopular socialist, Party lo

unist Party_O+ Cube

(Classification) *

CONE IDENT TAL.

WH 56829

DocId: 32336878

Page, 6

---

## Page 7

90135-10213

REPORT NO. ID

PAGE NO.

FROM

FOURTH U.S. ARMY

(Classification)

COM IDENTIAL

5.(C) ESCUELA DE CAPACITACION: Source stated that although he has heard of

the existence of such a school, he has no details as to its curricula, operations or

6.: (C) NATIONAL POLICE: The Chief of the National Police is one Efigenio

Almejeira. Source felt that because of his strong anti-Cormnist sentiments,

is a strong possibility that Alnejeira will soon try to defect to the United States.

The Notional Police is divided by lines of demarcations or zones and precincts with

in both provinces and torns.

Source has no additional information on the National

Police other

into the arny as, shotm by the. Pact

then the fact that he personally, saw that they were being incorporated

that the police are now earing ary uniforms,

& police badge to distinguish them from soldors. The volice are

unside carns retained fron the. old. Batista regine.

headquarters of the Cuban National Police 1s presently located on Chacon Streetsin

It is sources belier that the incorporation of the Cuban National Police

into the framowork of the military forces is part of Fidel Castro's overall ain to

nationalize and centralize all agencies.

(C) DISPOSITION OF THE ARMY: Source claims that the Cuban Revolutionary

Army is presently composed of the same tactical forces which fought against Batista.

They are stationed throughout the mountainous sreas and total approximately 30,000

to 40,000 men.

This Rebel Army is presently under the cormand of the Minister.

Defense: (Faul Castro).

The Chief of Staff for the Army is Conandante Juan Almeida.

Within the arry there is a 6-1, G-2, G-3, C-4, and G5 setup, which is organized in

the same manner as the U.S. Army.

The next in command are the Comandantes of the

various regiments which are located in the provincial areas of Cuba, 1.9., Matanzas,

Las Villas, Havana, Camaguey, and Oriente, Horever, according to source, there is

no table of organization within the Cuban Armed Forces and all changes are periodi-

cally nade at the whim and will of Fidel Castro personally. At present, the prin-

cipal mission of the Cuban Revolutionary Army appears to be restricted to such tasks

as operating as labor battalions in agriculture, in the constructions of schools and

roads; ete.

1s a result, their primary function as a fighting army has been dele-

gated to the militia.

Source believes that Fidel Castro could conceivably nobilize

approximately 200,000 militianen in a show of strength but only for a limited period

of time, since the militia is composed entirely of workers ino cannot be spared

fron their employment for any sustained periods of time without causing complete

paralysis of all industry, Source also estimates that Castro does have a minimum

of approxinately 30,000 permanent militiamen bearing arus at all times and that it

is Castro's desire to have his own private army vithin the militia.

3 (0) SPECIFIC HEADQUARTERS IN HAVANA ADD SANTIAGO AREAS:

Iccording to

source the General Hesdquarters of the Armed Forces in Santiago is known as

Santiogo General Headguarters and is located at Moncada Camo, Santiago de Cuba,

Oriente: Province,

Ine General Headquarters in Havana itself is located on Del

Puerto Avenue in Havana and is where the Armed Forces Ministry is located, Source

declared that he knew of no other najor units in those areas.

%: (0) DEFENSE AGAINST AMPHIBIOUS LANDINGS: Source stated that he has heard

from unrecalled sources that in the event of an all-out attack on Cubas

pre-Cotermined that Fidel Castro would assume cormand of La Mabana and Matanzas

Provinces; Che Guevara would cormand Pinal del Rio Province; Raul Castro would

connand Oriente Province; and. Escalona would be in charge of Caneguey and Las

Villas Provinces. Source claims that, other than that, no formidable defense. plans

have been formilated.

Havana or Havana Base,

refineries has yet been devised, however, these installations are heavily guarded.

Source added that be also heard

centration of Rebel troops stationed near Guantanano Base; however, he has no

explicit knowledge or confirmation of this.

only active defense reasures being undertaken is the continuing stocipiling of

weapons and an increase in active militianen.

(C) COLUNICATIONS SYSTEMS OF THE REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES:

stated that he is unaware of any general overall augmentation plans for the in-

crease of commnications in the event of an energency.

Neither is he knowledgable

the tentation ate the and he at tast 77 to poor to 0-

are now centraliced under the control of the present government..

(Classification)

рн4-56829

DocId: 32336878

Page 7

---

## Page 8

REPORT NO.

ID'

PAGE NO.

FROM

FOURM. U.S. ARMY

(Classification)

CORT IDENTIAL

Following general coments were made concerning miscellaneous subjects discussed

during the interrogation:

(C) IDENTIFICATION OF SINO-SOVILT BLOCK PERSONNEL: Source disclaims any

personal Inoledge of this subject on the grounds 'that he has had no direct contact

with foreign advisors. of any type.

Moreover, it is his insistent claim that what

fragmentary information he can offer is besed mainly on hearsay from unrecalled

He admits that he once heard,

exact time unrecalled,, that there are some

Czech military advisors in both Soledad and in Pinar del Rio but he has no idea as

to the exact number, locations, identifications, or equipmente

It is his impression

that these Czech technicians are used to instruct the militia forces in the use of

small arms, anti-aircraft weapons, and to instruct the Cubans in Military Training

source further claims he is not aware of the command relationships

between these technicians and the Cuban government nor does he have any inowledge

of their pay or any plans for future buildup that these Bloc forces night have.

his recollection, he has never seen any fussian or Polish technicians in Cuba al-

though he has heard that there have been some present.

With regard to the Chinese,

it is source's opinion that many of them have

been brought into Cuba to act as advisors in the agricultural and industrial fields.

But here again, he has no notion as to the nunber, their locations, or exact roles.

Source declared that an added difficulty is caused by the fact that all of the

Chinese Comunist consultants entering Cuba speak fluent Spanish so that it is

virtually impossible to distinguish then'fron native born or immigrated Chinese

since they all look alike and wear the same clothes and expressions.

He does recall that he once heard that these foreign advisors and techni-

cians all entered Cuba under the auspices of the Instituto Cubano de Amistad con los

Fueblos (ICAP) (Cuban Institute of [riendship with other Countries) and that they are

comprised of personnel from pro-commnist and Commist-dominated countries, or Co-

munist sympathisers from the Latin-American countries..

He believes that there are

approximately 2,000 of these visitors in Cuba at present and that they are accorded

preferential treatment as exemplified by the fact that they are all quartered in the

most luxurious hotels and cabanas in Cuba.

Source repeated that he knew of nothing

additional concerning foreign advisors since he has been in such an isolated district

and has been out of contact with the main metropolis areas.

2. (C) MINAS DEL FRIO:

Source reiterated that HE again has only hearsay in

formation, and that to the best of HIS knowledge there are no known tactical units

at this place. Individuals sent there are restricted to personnel who have committed

offenses against the Castro regine.

These individuals are for the rost part, military

personnel who have been sent there for disciplinary reasons. They are marched to the

mines where they are forced to perform hard, strenuous labor and after being there

for approximately a weeks, are marched back to their original units.

This is con-

sidered to be severe punishment in and of itself since the terrain there is so rugged

and difficult to traverse.

Source particularly recalls the case of Comondante Genaro

Arroyo, tho was ordered to march there in a body together with approximately 150

officers fron the Revolutionary Army. They were sent there and returned specifically

as a punitive measure.

(C) EL CANDY: Source claims he has no personal information concerning El

Caney.

-40 (C.) SUPPLY OF SMALI ARIS AND AMMO:

According to source, the Cuban Fevolu

is presently, equipped with Belgium nade,

magazine loaded, 20 round,

mosa dar poetia silene dad elto spot beatage none or tonien

30 and no coat me monine pume lastor end

nade to male anti aircrant tinso. Sorree hoc

exact descriotions of these weapons?

weapons that had originally been used by the Rebel Army to overthrow Batista.

weapons coming into Cuba from the

Sino-Soviet Bloc are issued to the militia only and

incluce 9-mn sub-nachine guns and the I rifles.

Here again source claims that

neither his forces nor the Regular Arny: were given these.

(Classification)

CONCTORTIAL

HH 56829

DocId: 32336878

Page 8

---

## Page 9

REPORT. NO:

ID.

PAGE NO. 5

FROM

FOURTH UOS. ARMY

cation)

16.

a greater relegation and also in his being put under greater relogation and

also in surveillance by Castro's people.

Fidel took no action against HIM

because, He feels, that Fidel would have been in a bad position to justiîy

any such action in the public opinion. He then started planning HIS departure

because IIIS opposition to Castro was creating a situation in which sooner

later HE would be put in jail. HE fought Batista in order to overthrow a

dictatorship and establish a democracy in Cube.

due to his opposition

tovard Castro's commnistic actions, he was being charged both in neuspapers,

radio, and runors among the people,

that he was with counter revolutionary

elements in bonbings in Havana and groups that had fled to the Escambray

Mountains. In HIS opinion, these were tactics of Castro's regime to build

up the people so as to throw him in jail.

departure and left Cuba in January 1961.

He then arranged all his plans. for

Foreign Travel:: In 1957, a trip to the United States to contact Prio Socarras

and Faure, Cheumon.

In 1959, a trip to Miami for a reception by the mayor of

During this trip he also visited Chicago and New Yorke

in July 1960,

a trip to spain.

This time he carried a diplonatic passport, but it was a

vacation trip, which was to last about 30 days.

after being in Spain

for a few days, Hit was forced to leave the country because HIt was suspected of

being an agent of Castro on an unknown mission. In then went to France and

then to Belgiu. In Belgium, HE visited a group of Spanish Nationals, who were

friends of HIS.

After a few days he wes picked up by the police, together with

HIS friends, and put into jail. HE was in jail "incomnicado" for about six

days when HE was then deported.

HE returned to France since he was afraid HE

would be re-arrested if he traveled through Madrid.' While 'in France, he con-

tacted the National Bank in Cuba to send hin some more funds since his money

was depleted by then.

In the same ressage, he requested permission to return

via the United States but both requests were disapproved.

In the end, he made.

arrangements with a ticket agency in France for passage on credit and commenced

his roturn trip through Portugal.

Upon his arrival in Lisbon,

detained, searched, and investigated.

fron Lisbon, his route took him by way

of Santa Maria, where he was again searched, interviewed and a surveillance

was conducted on him.

Because of the many delays enroute, SUbJICT decided to

return to Cuba by plane,, thich he did accomplish.. According to source,

entire trip spanned the

expenses for it out of his

period of approximately one month, and he paid for all

on pocket.

CHARACTER: 3.

Description - 5'10" in height; 133 lbs in weight; brown eyes;

brown hair; slight build; light complexion; wears a mistache; has a scar in the

middle of the lower lip which starts there and continues towards the middle of

the chin.

Characteristics - Though thin and slight in build, he has a tendency to

He can be considered to be handsome.

He is a heavy smoker and pre-

fers non-riltered cigarettes. Does not drink at all but enjoys dancing and

"all kinds of vomen."

He has a pleasant smile and is a good conversationalist.

Interrogation and questioning does not faze him

Weaknesses - SUBJIT's lack of education, finesse or polish is apparent.

Although quite glib and probably very influential in his speech, he encounters

difficulty in expressing himself in other than the most routine and ordinary

of matters, lle also denonstrated poor retention for details such as dates,

times and names.

do

Strong Points - He probably makes up for his lack of finesse in conversation,

bear inesand charn.

ence,

and convincing manner probably stands

Despite his slight build, his good looks, masculine appesr.

him in good stead among the feminine

gendles

Can is e

ten rectaste

nice mannerions are probably very influentian and-

nigh stains

he does not seem to beas excitable on

809400

telligent leader-o

ho man danna do gen

ely shous the marks of a profesed nai

volutionists:

Hobbies - 111 sports generally.

Professes to like chess, ping

judo and "romen."

Claims to have

learned. judo by self-study.

International orientation - His lack of no ledgeability on

boxing,

birs is

rather outstanding.

this does not detract from his deck

revolutionary natters.

He appears to favor the United States,

or reliability can be

edence

placed on his remarks.

PHOTOGRAPH: Being obtained and will be forwirded upon rüceipt

(Classification)

CONF IDENTIAL

56829

DocId: 32336878

Page, 9

---

## Page 10

REPORT NO.

PAGE NO.

FROM

FOURTH U.S. ARMY

90135-10213

(Classification)

CONF IDENTIAL

18.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: do

Property In Cuba; SUBJECI

Club,", a bar and dancing club located on Linea

and

Surests

E]

Havana®

bo In 1959, SUBJECT received a contract tron,

ano covernment for the

demolishment of the Old Market Place in La

co

Reasons for defection:

Source averted

that since. It appeared that his

arrest, trial and probable imprisonment to Cuba by

The Castro government seered

Inninent, it was as much a fight for sural as a chance to re-organize

opposition forces here in the United States that caused him to defict wnen he

dide

Be feels strong y that he has bada miled by Castro and that the 2d Front

Forces certainly did not recolve the croust they vere due for their art in the

overthroy of the racista dia

can soon of the bootst d pouer or Bas part of castro, he felt he could be os

BoO use here in the to conseeting and lobilizing resistance forces here

to setus to Cuba in a body.

Future Plans = SUBJECT's innediate plan during this exile is to organize

aforce of sufficient strength and power to return to Cuba and overthrow Castro.

He feels that with his reputation and fare as well as revolutionary experience,

he can arouse all Cubans in exile to rise to a connon cause and effect their

return to Cuba as soon as possible.. During the interim, it is his intention

to gather as unny nen and arms as possible to prosecute their mission success-

fully.

If paroled fron the Alien Detention Facility, FT intends to contact

Zenaida Marriro, the wife of the forner Cuban Consul

Ramon Gonzales,

in Tampa, Florida, or

who resides at sone unknown address in Miani. He feels confi-

dent that he will be able to contact one or both of them prior to departing

McAllen.

CONF IDENTIAL

(Classification)

GOT IDNTIAL

HH 56829

DocId: 32336878

Page 10

---

## Page 11

90135-10703

I REPORT NO

'PAGE NO.'

FROM

1D

4

FOURTH U.S. ARMY

(Classifica

CONFIDENT

CONE IDENT IAL:

second

year of high school.

The only other:

some night training in notor mechanics at the

SUBJECT declares he has never had any

Culoynent t

time jobs in garages as a mechanic at

o 15 and I

12.

RELIGIO]: Catholic

130 - POLITICS: SUBJECT claims he does not me

toyany politica.

any type and that he has never been e

apolitics.

that he prefers a denocratic form of

vertrent of the type

corrupt as the former Batista regar

Lienadditionally deck

contact: with politics was afte

Ched the revolutionary

Batiste in 1952 at the are on?ter

weedes 1o the segundo Prentetde: 1a

LANGUAGES: Spanish Speaks, reads, writes and understands fluently.

any knotledge of Inglish whatsoever.

15.

PAST CARTER:

In 1952, SUBJECT joined the revolutionary forces in Cuba in their

battle against Batista; his contribution in the conflict was as a nember of the

underground.

SUBJECT was 17 years of age at the time, and as he recalled, nost

of the opposition leaders were "politicians." Their mission then included the

committing of acts of sabotage and the transporting of weapons to le used against

Batistes

No incidents of any consequence occured during those early years (1952

However, by 195k, the revolutionists had stockpile a large store of

weapons which they had commandeered from the Allestaran warehouse located be

•tween Havana and Vedado.

Raids were also conducted on the warehouses on Santa

Varte and Lindero Streets in Havana.

After these weapons were placed in the

hands of the waiting revolutionists, they connenced their assaults on the

Moncada and Goicuria Camps.

Fidel Castro directed the assault on the Moncada

Camp while Reyno Garcia directed the assault on the Goicuria Camp.

Fidel Castro was-forced into exile in' 1955 and returned to Cuba on 2 January

On 13 March 1957, the assault on Radid City and the Palace was launched.

In this assault, SUBJECT was given the task of being the liaison officer be-

tween the two main assault groups.

It was during this assault that his brother,

Carlos was killed; the brother was leading the assault on the Palace.

Following

this, SUBJBCT returned to the underground movement and continued to create dis-

turbances.

By the middle part of 1957, he came to the United States to contact

Prio Socarras and Faure Chauron.

HIS mission with these people was a failure.

time HE had already been appointed National Chief of the Revolutionary

Directorate in charge of assaults (action).

He returned to Cube and organized

- the Second Front and established quarters in the Escambray Mountains in Las

FE organized this group of 15 individuals.

The weapons He had included

about 19 carbines, one Thompson Sub-machinegun, one M-3 Sub-machinegun, and

five Johnson rifles®

Is asked the 26th of July Movement for aid but it was

At that time all the aid was going to Castro who was in the

Source and HIS men remained in the scarbray Mountains untill the

attack on Havana when Fidel Castro sent Che Guevera with troops for a combined

final attack (1955). by this time he had approximately 3000 men fighting in

the mountains.

The second Front was given the responsibility of attacking

through the Southern part of Las Villas while Che Guevera attacked through the

Northern part.

These combined attacks with Castro and other revolutionaries

resulted in the overthro of Batista.

Immediately upon Castro's taking power

in Cuba, the Second Front was practically disbanded.

This was due to the fact

that none of the members of the Second Iront were pro-communist.

Officers ánd

enlisted men were placed in a sort of reserve status.

However,

inasmuch as the

people of Cuba know of the activities of the Second Front, Fidel Castro kept

some of the high ranking officers close to him, but without any command position.

Source was given tro checks, one in January 1959, and the

other in February 1959g

in payment of his services, which he refused to accept.

HE attended meny official gatherings, had bodyguards, but held no comnand

positions.

In July 1960 he was contacted by Fidel Castro and asked to make

trip to the Socialist countries, which ME refused to do.

This resulted in

CONF IDENTIAL

(Classification)

DENTIAL

|N6.56829

DocId: 32336878

Paye

11

---

## Page 12

REPORT NO.

PAGE NO.

•FROM

"FOURTH U.S. ARMY

(Classification)

COUT IDENT TAL

(CONF IDENTIAL)

CONFIDENTIAL

FULL NAME:

Eloy GUTIERREZ-Menoyo, ALIRN REGISTRATION NR: 1 10 190 153

20

ALIASES, NICKNAMES, VARIANTS:

Lazaro MARTINEZ-Mendoza - Name used sone-

time in 1957 on an illegal passport to gain entry into the United States to

seek aid in fighting Batista.

"GALLEGO" - Nickname given SUBJECT by his

friends to denote his Spanish origin after the province of Galcie in Spain.

30

PRESENT TITLE OR MILITARY RANK: Comandante - This is the highest rank-attein-

able in the Cuban Revolutionary Arry and is comparable to the rank of Major

Source claims this rank was given to him through a unaninous

vote by all the Escambray Mountain Group of revolutionists on 10 November 1957.

This group numbered 20 at the time.

Source explained that after the revolution against Batista was concluded on

1 January 1959, the 2d Front Group, which he led, was disbanded and he has

been on a seni-inactive status since that time.

He does not feel he can be

considered to be a bonafide menber of Castro's Rebel Army of today since his

group tas never officially incorporated into it. Because of this, it is his

clain that, as of the time he departed Cuba, he had no official title, position

or standing in the Castro regims.

440

BRANCH OF SERVICE:. It is SUBJECT's contention that there has never been any

distinct branches. of service within the Rebel Army nor is there any such

separation in Castro's present day Cuban Armed Forces.

For identification

purposes, source can be considered the previous chief of the 2d Front Revolu

tionary force fighting Batista.

PRESENT POSITION: Source declared that although his name appears on the Cuban

Revolutionary Arry Roster, he has refused to accept the monthly pay checks due

to his inactive and retired status and lack of position; and since former 2d

Front Combatants are virtually persona non grata in the eyes of Fidel Castro,

he does not consider hinself to be a legitimate member of the Cuban Armed !

6.

30

DATE OF BIRTH: 8 December 1934

Madrid,

Spain (exact location unknown)

NATIONALITY AND ORIGIN:

SUBJECT claims Cuban citizenship by

virtue of a decree

instituted by Fidel. Castro in January 1959 whereby all individuals who fought

to overthrow Batista vere granted autonatic Cuban citizenship upon the cessation

of hostilities.

He declared that he arrived in Cuba from Spain in 1948 at the age of l, in the

compary of his nother and two older sisters.

not as an exiles and they entered fuba legally.

approx, 9l

The father is a doctor of

medicine with a specialty as a radiologist in rheunatology.. He is presently

associated with INIT (National Institute for the Tourist Industry) and is the

assistant director in charge of the therapeutic mineral water facilities in

troops in thei

Brothers and Sisters. (in order of age) - Jose Antonio - oldest brother, died

& APPA 25 in Spanish Civil War when SUBJECT was a boy; exact age unknown.

** Mercade

Oldest

Iulierre?

ret menarinatoly age - 36. This sister arrived in cube spen

rother, approximate ago, it alive, 32. Tought with

168 eido when 17 in Spair. Departed Spain in 1946

MIne and went to luba. Died at the age of 2

10,

110

Maritere

Sarita - Third older sister,

Arrived-in Cuba

sently narried to Jose Luis Perades cura

who is in the tanning

Edificio Radial, El Vedado.

MARITAL STATUS:

Single (never narrieu)

CHILDREN:

EDUCATION:

SUBJECT attended school for apuroximately 10

Mar Institute, Barcelona

•Spain, which he consigers to y

Sarilai

Glitierres

Paras

classification,

1933-1934

HH 56829

DocId: 32336878

Page 12

---

## Page 13

INTELLIGENCE

WEPORT

NOTE: Reproduction of this, document in

whöle or in part is prohibited; if secret or

top secret, except

with permission of the

issuing office. All requests for authority

to reproduce:will be directed to the Assist-

ant Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Depart-

ment of the Army.

COUNTRY

CUBA

fallen

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

(Classification)

COIF IDENTIAL

INTE

LIGENCE REPORT

NOTE: This document contains' information

affecting the national defense of the United

States within the

meaning

of the espionage

laws, Title 18, U.S. C., Secs. 793 and 794, the

transmission or revelation of which in any

manner to an unauthorized person is prohibi-

ted by law.

REPORT NO.

ID

2/6354/

DATE OF REPORT

13 February 1961

Gallego Gutierrez-MenoyD

NO. OF PAGES

É oF

6 February 1961

REFERENCES

U.S. Border Patrol

PLACE &

6 February 1961

DATE ACQ.

Alien Detention Facility, McAllen, Texas

EVALUATIONE-3

SOURCE

FROM

G2; FOURTH U.S.

ARMY

PREPARED BY

R-SERIES NO.

HOODRO J. CHID, Captine)

R-2-61

Interrogation of Subiect

SUMMARY

CONT IDENTIAL

1o

FULL NAME:

•20

GUT ISRAEZ-MENOYO,

A 10.190 153

LIASES:

NICKNAMES

30

PRESENT TITLE OR MILITARY RANK:

40

BRANCH OF SERVICE: Segundo Frente de la Sierra del Escambray

PRESENT POSITION:

Inactive

60

DATE OF BIRTH: 8 December 1934

PLACE OF BIFTH:

Madrid, Spain

80

%

10.

110

120:

13.

140

15.

NATIONALITY AND ORIGIN: Cuban Citizenship by decree, from CASTRO.

WICE:

Single

SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED NOT

CHILDREN:

None N/A

RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

EDUCATION:

Ten (10) years

EXCEPT None BY AUTHORITY OF G2,

RELIGION:

Catholic

FOURTH .U.S. ARMY.

POLITICS: Segundo Frente de la Sierra del Escambray

LANGUAGES:

Spanish - Fluent

PAST CAREER: 1952 joined the revolutionary forces in Cuba against Batista.

Fought Batista forces from the Escambray Mountains until Jan 59•

Fled from

Cuba, 24 Jan 61.

CONFIDENT IAL

• DISTRIBUTION BY ORIGINATOR:

DOSI, CONARC 1 Cy

LA

8-13-75

SAN A

100.

madrid

тікті

waist

23- G

(Classification)

CONF IDENT IAL

INTELLIGENCE REPORT

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREINES

INTELLIGENCE REPORT

56829

DocId: 32336878 Page 131

---

## Page 14

90035-10273

REPORT NO.

ID

PAGE NO. 2

FROM FOURTH U.S. ARMY

(Classification)

COM IDENTIAL

REC'D

ESPIONAGE

16.

CHARACTER:

MAR 16

Megat:

5910"

CONF IDENTIAL

Eyes:

Brown

Keight:

133 lbs

Hair:

Brown

12i71

Slight

Beard:

Wears

ĐX 104

Lusteche/05-

82598-

108

NOT

COMMENT:

A detailed biographic of SUBMICT is included as

continuation of

this report. - Additional

is also reportedo

1800018

•CONFIDENTIAL

66 MAR 30196V

105-81298

(Classification)

DONT I

FINT TAT.

HH

56822-RocId: 32336878,

Page 14

---

