# docid-32303797

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10284-10309

HQ

92-2717-262

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/25/1961

4

ABR, ADMIN, INSTR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32303797

Page 1

353

---

## Page 2

FD.

13-56)

ONFIDENT

FBI

Date:

7/25/61

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRIEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

ON 405/550 BY.

5P8mAcGeL...

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2717)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (92-139)

ANGELO

BRUNO, Aka

AR

5211,326

Classied by SP6 BA/Get

Declaseit a1: 0408/23/87

00 - Philadelphia

Re Philadelphia airtel to Bureau, 7/17/61,

instructing preparation of "brief descriptive type data"

characterizing each "key" symbol in report of SA J.

ROBERT PEARCE, 6/28/61, at Philaelphia.

An American citizen who travels extensively

throughöut latin America and has knowledge of affairs

within the Dominican Republic (DR). (4)h1)

T-6 MM 509-C

An individual who mingles with the criminal

element on a daily basis in the Miami area.

Bureau (AM)

- Philadelphia (AM) (92-444)

2 - Miami

ATH: pmi

(7)

RE 3857-7717-267

110

* : IS JUL R6 1908

Approved:

Special Agent in

Charge

56 JUL 31 1961

DocId: 32303797 Page 2

AAFORANTION

OLENT NED

HE3SIN

ISIVIED

Prete

OTHERWISE

---

## Page 3

SUNEDENTIAT

MM 92-139

T- 8 MM 665 - C

A legitimate businessman in the greater Miami

area; however, through his social activities, he has

come in contact with the criminal element.

T-10 MM JOSEPH D'ALESSANDRO

A motel operator who associates with a number

of hoodlums in the Miami area.

T-17 MM 725-C

A bartender who has wide association in criminal

element in Miami area.

I-18 MM PCI JOE VICKERY

Formerly a desk clerk at the Carib Hotel,

Miami Beach, Fla., who had contact with the criminal

element who frequented that hotel.

I-19 MM PCI PETE CATALDO

An individual acquainted with numerous thieves,

racketeers and prostitutes who reside at or frequent the

Beaux Arts Apartments, North Bay Village, Miami Beach, Fla.

MM 719-C

A former Connecticut police officer who is

Office Manager for a car rental agency servicing major

Miami Beach, Fla. hotels, and through this employment, has

contacts with criminal element.

2.

DocId: 32303797 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SONEIDENHA

MM 92-139

T-21 MM PCI FRANK A. CASE

Owner of a car rental agency who gambles and

does business with a number of members of the criminal

element in the Miami area.

T-29 MM WILLIAM HUNTER

A U. S. Post Office Inspector, Miami, Fla., who

requested his

identity be concealed.

T-32

MM Former PH PCI DIANNE WHYTE (Deceased)

Common-law wife from approximately 1950 - 1953 of

CHARLES TOURINE®

T-38 MM PCI ROBERT GREENE

An individual who associates with the criminal

element in the Miami are

T-39 MM 744-C

Supervisor of an agency which conducts credit

investigations and can obtain info as to financial and

business interests of hoodlums and racketeers.

I-46 MM GUSTAVO ANDRES LOPEZ MUNOZ

An attorney and former member of law firm of

LOPEZ, MUNOZ and CASTELIANOS, Havana, Cuba, now a Cuban

refugee in Miami, Fla., whose identity is concealed at

his request.

3.

ONFIDE:

DocId: 32303797 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CONEIDENTIA

MM 92-139

T-51 MM PCI PAT LANE

Security Officer at Miami Beach, Fla. hotel, which

is frequented by a number of hoodlums and racketeers.

T-54 MM WILLIAM ROBERT SHIELDS

Official of Hotel Inter Carib Corporation and

Hotel Presidente, DR, who requested his identity be

protected.

4.

DocId: 32303797

Page 5

---

