# docid-32292727-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:.

4/27/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10210-10003

HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-9-9-1168

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 01/23/1963

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

THP, MISUR, GIROLAMI, TONY, INFORMANTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

2

---

## Page 2

".

CG 92-350

MARCY:

PORCARO:

This guy is freezing all your jobs?

Yeah, the dirty (obs). And the guys I have made

in my time.

I made........ for Recorder, I

put HODGE for Auditor,

MARCY:

PORCARO:

He's gonna make it this month I see.

Yeah.

Now, look what's happening.

I lost my clout,

I"m out now, but I said don't try to pressure

me just because I'm out now. The world changes,

what's true today may not be true tomorrow.

After all, MOONEY knows what's going on and he

has a way

of catching up to these guys.

I

was always friendly to JOHN and tried to do

everything I could. This GIROLAMI, he'd rather

see JOHN go to jail than do him a tavor. But

if he won't do what they tell him, watch out.

MARCY:

PORCARO:

I think you're right.

I'm positive.

And that (obs) has got everybody

on the payroll. His brother-in-law came from

out of town and never worked a precinct. He's

on for $14,000 a year.

But look, try to straighten

this out for me, I don't care how much I get, just

so I get it every two weeks.

500 a month.

You work it out with him, will you?

MARCY:

OK, JOE.

€ .

It is noted that TONY, GIROLAMI referred to above

is the Democratic Ward Committeeman of the 28th Ward, being

the counterpart of PORCARO in thas respect.

The above

conversation brings into focus information

furnished by

GIROLAMI, who is identical to CG 6498-PC. He has advised

the Agent handling him that due to the influence of the

FBI

over him in recent years he has attempted to slowly but

surely cut the ties of the hoodlums and their associates,

such as D'ARCO and MARCY, with him..

he advised that he is

concerned with his actions in this

regard due to the fact

that he lives "among them" in a predominantly Italian

neighborhood on the West Side of Chicago and must leave

his wife and child alone frequently at night. He stated that

he has received no direct threats but has been approached by

MARCY who implied that he and his friends are not happy with

GIROLAMI. GIROLAMI has cited

several instances where he has

- 2 -

910-13083

---

## Page 3

CG 92-350

been in recent contact with hoodlums,

such as GIANCANA

and HUMPHREYS, and has refused to do

these recent instances was in November, 1962, when he

relused to support PORCARO for the vacancy which existed

воксао от

their bidding.

One of

when he left the Aldermanship of the 28th Ward and became

The reference to GIROLAMI'S

brother-in-law from out of town is a reference to the

brother of GIROLAMI's wife, JACK KUBIAK, who is originally

from Niles, Michigan, whom GIROLAMI recently placed on the

payroll of

the Illinois Toll Road Commission.

MARCY then telephonically contacted SID KORSHAK

and informed him that he would see him in KORSHAK's office.

MARCY then contacted

Sergeant PAUL QUINN, Secretary

of Police Commissioner ORLANDO W. WILSON, and attempted

to place a school crossing guard on the South Side of Chicago.

QUINN apparently informed MARCY that be should contact MATT

DANAHER, Administrative Aid of Mayor DALEX, which MARCY then did.

DANAHER

advised that he would instruct the Mayor's Office

to comply with MARCY's wishes and MARCY then recontacted

Sergeant QUINN to so advise him.

MARCY then carried on the following conversation with

Alderman BENJAMIN LEWIS, Negro Alderman from the 24th Ward

of Chicago:

MARCY:

Hi, Alderman.

What did you do with that guy's

wife. Your (obs) right, he's got the arm going

Tor him. Let me tell you something. You might

want the arm going for you sometime and it'll

be there for you too.

Yeah. OK.

All right.

OK. Yeah, but you don't do that to good friends,

Alderman.

You know what I mean. That's right,

that's right, that's right. Listen, you're

my friend, I don't want to argue with you. All

right.

MARCY then asked FRED ROTI to obtain the private

number of FRANK CHESROW which he dialed after receiving it.

He talked to CHESROW as follows:

MARCY:

FRANK, PAT MARCY. Give me about five minutes.

CE 6-4434. Call

me there, go out and call me.

=3 -

SH-10

---

