Py 6 O
: 1 - Mr. Belmont
1- Mr. Gale (J.E.Kelly, Jr., Room 1541)

: _1-Mr, Sullivan(J.D. Donohue, 815 RB
AL : .. SAC, ppbagelphia (92-1027 Sub J ) January 15, 1965
if “EX-100" rt 1 ‘onrad
- Director, FBI (92-6054)4+~ Mr. Millen JUNE
1 - Mr. Baker

1- Mr. Corbett
LA COSA NOSTRA
PHILADELPHIA DIVISION
AR - CONSPIRACY -

Reurlet 1/5/65 outlining technical details of the proposed
installation of Radio-Frequency Microphone-Telephone (RFMT)
coverage in captioned matter and furnishing cable and block prints
of the target area. This material has been reviewed by the Laboratory.
The Laboratory's technical observations are attached for the
assistance of your sound-trained Agents. ‘

| : If itis not possible to run a drop wire directly from the
telephone terminal box in the rear of 906 South 8th Street to an
| area for secure concealment of the RFMT unit in the parochial.
institution, it is suggested that consideration be given to obtaining {
a secure space either in the high school.or in close proximity thereof.
1 leased pair of telephone wires may be used to connect the RFMT
- unit to the central plant where personnel can monitor the microphone
N ~ coverage.
: A
: -If additional technical assistance is desired, the Bureau
y _ Should be advised. : :

ad

prior Bureau authorization. In the event a misur is authorized you

No installation should be effected in this matter without
must insure that it does not function as a tesur. ¢
ce bas -

Ss

A Troe
SHa 3 -
At ed

yy, py
I 2 en pg

SECEIAEH “fonwya

Gpceryee vw 1

Docld:32576371 Page 1



a .) o)

January 15, 1965

TECHNICAL REVIEW OF TELEPHONE .-. CABLE SERVICE
FOR RFMT INSTALLATION IN THE VICINITY OF
902 South 8th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

In reviewing the submitted cable records it was assumed that,
as a matter of company policy, telephone drop wires are not run across
Streets in close proximity to the target area and, therefore, the maximum
use of existing cable facilities will be most desirable. If this assumption
is correct, it will be necessary to have block drawing S9-7 for complete
details of the cable serving the parochial institutions before a final \
decision can be reached as to the cable modifications required and the \
ability of the RFMT unit-to properly excite (activate) the target instrument. a‘

Based on the data furnished, it is estimated that there are 924
cable feet between the telephone terminal box in the rear of 906 South
8th Street (cable terminal to which target instrument is connected) and
the telephone terminal box serving the parochial institutions. To this
must be added the wires connecting the target instrument and the RFMT
unit to the respective terminal boxes. If cable pairs are used, it will be
necessary to open the cable splice on Montrose, in the front of the high
school, to insert especially designed chokes. between the central office
and the target instrument. A pair of wires must be provided to connect
between the cable pair serving the target instrument and the cable terminal
at the institution. This pair must be connected on the instrument side of
the chokes and must not have stubs nor multiple appearances. It may
require opening several cable splices to provide this service.

There is no assurance that the RFMT unit will properly excite
the target instrument from a plant in the institutions after the above-~
listed work has been completed as the wire distance involved is in the
fringe range for the RFMT unit.

If it is possible to run a drop wire directly from the terminal
box in the'rear of 906 Sout;h 8th.Street to the institutions, consideration
should be given to concealing the special chokes in or near this terminal

99-bLosy SIA

| Docla:32576371 Page 2


pox and running the drop wire from this point to the institutions. This
drop wire, along with the drop wire serving the target instrument, will
be connected to the instrument side of the chokes. The other end of
the chokes will be connected to binding posts 8 in the terminal box at

_ the rear of 906 South 8th Street, The RFMT unit should properly excite
the target instrument with this wiring plan.

Consideration should be given to locating a plant within the
drop" area served by the terminal box at the rear of 906 South 8th Street.
While the block diagram limits this area to 806-8 Christian to 906 South
8th Street, it may be possible, with company cooperation, to extend the
area to include 908-22 South 8th and the high school.’

If a secure plant can be located in this area it may be possible
to conceal the special chokes near the terminal box serving the target
instrument and connect a tdephone drop to the plant. Such an arrange-
ment will not require modification to the telephone company cable plant.
It will not be necessary: for the leased pair connecting the central
monitoring plant with the RFMT unit to appear in the same terminal
box nor will a special line be required to transmit the audio back to the
central monitoring plant as any line with a quality equal to that used for
long-haul microphone installations will serve this purpose.

It should be pointed out that parallel drop wire attenuates the’
RFMT energy more than cable pairs therefore the use of parallel drop
wire runs should be kept to a minimum.

The cable prints and block diagrams are being retained in the

Laboratory for reference in the event additional technical assistance is
desired.

~2«

Docld:32576371 Page 3



Ny

TO

T

tie OPTIONAL FORM No. 10 ‘ s010-107
Le aay ioe Eormion Pan
GSA Gen. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT i
Memorandum
irector, FBI (92-6054) pate: 1/5/65
FROM YE=BAC, Philadelphia (92-1027 sub-F)
ZUNE

SUBJECT: LA COSA NOSTRA

PHILADELPHIA DIVISION
AR - CONSPIRACY

Re Bureau June communication dated 12/18/64 and
Philadelphia letter to Bureau dated 12/17/64. ,
‘

Referenced communications were in regard to
establishing’ technical coverage 902 South 8th Street,
Philadelphia, Pa.

Per request referenced Bureau letter, enclosed
herewith are cables prints showing telephone service for
the target installment and block diagram of telephone cable
service in target area. :

Target telephone is for ALFONSO MAIORIELLO, 902
South 8th Street, telephone number MA 7-6443, serficed by
sub cable 19-227 pair. There are two appearances of this
count, one in the rear of 906-South 8th Street on binding
post number 8 (see sketch S9-8). The second appearance is
at 23} Washington Avenue binding post number 7 (see sketch
§10-8).

Considering that Philadelphia's proposal in this
matter was to obtain a secure location for a RFMT unit in
|: parochial institution, further that this unit would be~

used to relay technical’ coverage at target area to Phila-
\delphia's central plant, the following information is
provided: g 92)

z : EXygy OU FQ-GOs¢ —

@-= Bureau (50-sost)- (enon ( a |
1 = Philadelphia (92-102;(uo-2 lend

i ei ore |

ors
apm yg 19 79 22 ee

- vod a
BELeIAcE CABEWD ee aoe

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

JRP:EKM FvEaEvEss
(3) 7

Docld:32576371 Page 4


PH 92-1027 Sub-F

902 South 8th Street is on the west side of
the street intersecting South 8th Street;on the east
side 1s Montrose Street. This intersection is less than
100 feet from the target address. On Montrose Street,
which is believed to be well within the 1000 wire foot
requirement for an RFMT installation,ame the previously
deseribed parochial institutions. The institutions
include a rectory, convent, church and school running
from 712 to 730 Montrose Street. The current Philadelphia
Telephone Directory lists the owner of this property as —
DENNIS J. DOUGHERTY (TR) of 225 North 18th Street, Phila-
delphia, which address is for the Missionary Servants of
the Blessed Trinity. The parochial institutions in the
700 block of Montrose Street are listed under St. Mary
Magdalene de Pazzi Church, 712 Montrose Street.

-2-

Docld:32576371 Page 5
