# docid-32292743-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10210-10019

HQ JUNE MAIL

62-9-9-1197

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/25/1963

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

THP, MISUR, SGI, ASSOC, GAMBLING, BUSS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

---

## Page 2

D 6 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

2/25/63

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, CHICAGO (92-350-SUB E)

ACTIVITIES OF TOP HOODLUMS

CHICAGO DIVISION

AR

"JUNE"

AIRTEL SUMMARY

misery

The following represents a conference on 2/18/63

reported by CG 6486-0#, between SAMUEL ME GIANCANA and

his representative for the Northwest suburbs, ROCCO POTENZO.

By way of explanation, the first part of the

relates to an establishment in Niles, Illinois,

known as the Lone tree Inn, wherein bookmaking is being carried

on without the sanction of the GIANCANA group.

of the power exerted by the organization is manifested by

POTENZO's alternative suggestions to either have the place

raided or utilize muscle on the individuals involved, knowing

that ths apparently is a favorite hangout of the Mayor of

this suburb.

MOTEL ROSEMANT I11.

The reason for POTENZO's being called

in by GIANCANA

is that recently GIANCANA's motel, the infamous/ hunderbolt Motehy

in Rosemont Ilinois, was sold to the Village President

DONALD LOX TEPHENS (CG 6621-PC), and the name was changed to

the Caravelle.

The restaurant

and lounge concession in the

motel is operated by FRANK SARNO, a close associate of POTENZO,

with POTENZO's brother, THOMAS POTENZO, acting as head bartender.

As a result, POTENZO looked upon the motel as his personal

headquarters, and was observed acting in a managerial capacity

therein by Bureau Agents.

This fact became known to GIANCANA,

who conducted an investigation on his own and spotted POTENZO

in the motel after having instructed him to stayavay. In this

F: MIRAN'E

- Bureau (RM)

1

- Chicago

RRH : rmh

(1)

MAR

nice

₫ 1963

apecial Agen

in Charge

Sent

R66 862-9-9-119

217

M

Per

1963

---

## Page 3

CG 92-350

conversation he is most insistent that POTENZO not be seen

In the moter, and the import of his instructions was passed

on by CG 6621-PC, who advised that he had been told by

GIANCANA recently that POTENZO is not to be seen at the motel.

This informant states that neither POTENZO nor any of his

at 1 a that not to be

associates have been seen there since that edict.

The next topic of conversation concerns itself with

POTENZO's prospective plans for gambling enterprises.

It is

noted that from the latter part of December, 1962, through early

February, 1963, the location of Cook County's largest gambling

operation was at the intersection of River and Higgins Road,

Rosemont, in the basement of a liquor store located one block

north of

the Village Hall.

Apparently the new location is

located now in the Rosemont Industrial District in a small

plastics factory operated by POTENZO as a front.

Physical

observation of this site bears out POTENZO's claim that it is

impossible to get in unless driven there.

It is also next

to impossible to conduct a decent surveillance prior to a

contemplated gambling raid. This is a temporary location to be

utilized until POTENZO can satisfactorily locate elsewhere.

POTENZO:

That sARNo, he come up to me and says,

what

the hell, I can't make no money here with you guys

hanging

around........they went up to the Wagon

Wheel and put their own locks on the place.

............they went through the whole joint,

around neir own,

and when they left, they put their own locks

on......... Saturday night we had to bust

the place in to get in. In the big room..

they were over on Milwaukee Avenue, and....

.. somebody over there gave the G guy.....the

= told them this.

The G. told them that our

joint (R&H) was gonna get raided, but what the

hell.

I was closed already........... (no

comment by GIANCANA)... ...listen, there's a

joint on Milwaukee Avenue, the Lone Tree Inn.

They're booking in there, and the Mayor of Niles

is hanging in there. Lone Tree Inn.

They play

cards in there, too.

BUTCH MEYERS has got the

stop.

Remember that bootlegger, BUTCH MEYERS?

You

know the guy, grey haired guy.

You want me to

grab the guy, or you want the joint to get nailed?

I'Il nail the Mayor and all them guys.

You know,

Milwaukee and Harlem?

About two blocks north of

there.

They're booking there. (can't decipher

GIANCANA's comment) ..........

- 2 -

---

## Page 4

CG 92-350

GIANCANA :

POTENZO:

GIANCANA:

POTENZO:

GIANCANA:

POTENZO:

GIANCANA:

POTENZO:

GIANCANA:

POTENZO:

GIANCANA:

POTENZO:

You know the heat is there, why are you hangin'

out in there? (shouting)

You know why? That BILL MC GUIRE is in there.

He hangs in there every night. Who put him ir

there?

THAT'S NONE OF YOUR BUSINESS.

Well, if you're gonna beef about one guy, beef

about the other guy too.

He was there every night.

He had two tables there. (at Caravelle Motel)

He won't listen to what you tell him, he runs

around there like a chicken without a head.

MOE, I got another spot.................. just like,

last week, when they came into the joint..

... . .We

all ran down into the basement. This guy was

there, that guy was there.

I DON'T WANT THAT JOINT TO BE A HANGOUT.

MOONEY, THERE WON'T BE A HANGOUT THERE. I, don't

give a

(obs). There won't be no hangout there.

The G is in and out of there all the time.

that night, just before you came in, these

guys are sitting at tables, talking, yelling

bla, bla, bla.

They hurt you, if the G can hear

them. Then when you walk in,

they shut up,

and everybody is like a Lamb.

They don't respect

nobody, except you.

If these guys come in, you

can't chase them out.

I don'twant these guys hanging around there.

That one night you was there, I was there to see

FRANK.

I ate, and I left.

The next night you

came,

I was working in the kitchen, they had a

leak

in there. _I usually stay by the liquor

store.

All day long, the G spots you guys going in there.

Well, one night, it was FRANK SARNO's birthday.

there and everything.

I told

the Mayor (DONALD E. STEPHENS, CG 6621-PC), 1

- 3-

---

