JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10277-10015

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2918-30

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, PG
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 04/11/1958
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS :
SMO, ASSOC, BKG, B/F INT, GAMBLING ACT, REL, DESCR
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/24/1998
OPENING CRITERIA :. INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : INC MEMO.

v9.1
DocId:32300680 Page 1


y
) FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

S

vf %

i
|

Transmit the following in

FBI %

Date: 4/11/58

/

ee

)
i

(Type in plain text or code)

6 peepee anes eegeaeeceeen eas pegeiaanany

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI. (92-2918)
FROM: SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-228)

RE: SAMUEL MANNARINO, was. ALL INFOR!
ANTI-RACKETEERING i
00: Pittsburgh HEREIN IS

DATE_%, asf

ReBulet to Pittsburgh, 4/1/58, concerning birth ea of
MIKE GEORGE HAZIDAKIS, an associate of the MANNARINO brothers.

By PCI MIKE ZERVOS, an associate of HAZIDAKIS for over 20 years
and himself a native of Greece, in interview on 4/10/58
explained. that HAZIDAKIS was born in the town of Menetes on
the island of Karpathas and described Karpathas as one of a
group of 12 islands located approximately 36 hours by ship off
the coast of Greece. According to ZERVOS, the group of islands
were originally the possession of Turkey until the early 1900's
when Italy gained control until the end of World War II when the
‘islands came under the control of Greece.

ZERVOS, who corresponds regularly with relatives in Athens,
Greece, advised that to the best of his knowledge Menetes;,
Karpathas, is still. known by its original name with present
population between 15,000. and 18, ooo,

Naturalization records, Pittsburgh, Pa., disclose HAZIDAKIS :
H born 2/2/1900, ‘"Menetes Karpathas, Italy."

Approved:. Sent M_ Per

IY ~ 3
Gam ethers :
zt - P i
\) i (1- gene56, GABRIEL NANNARINO) 8 es APR a2 1958 |
\\ aye a Hossa age
, TEL Cot &
A i R- - rene .

. Special Agent in Charge

| Docla:32300680 Page 2
