# docid-32310020

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10301-10286

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1249

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/07/1963

2

SAM GIANCANA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32310020

274

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ingr

SPACIAL INVESTIGATIF

DIVISION

November 12, 1963

The informant Lowell Williamson is

the husband of Dorothy McGuire, one

of the McGuire Sisters trio.

Inasmuch as the source's information

is in the nature of rumor and gossip,

no dissemination is being made.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DocId: 32310020

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-36 (PRey: 12-913-56)

Male?

FBI

Date: 11/7/63

Even Belmons

Transmit the following in

Celinan

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Mr.

Mr. r.400

Mr. Evanst

Mr. Gale

"Mr. Rosend

TO

ATT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR C.

A. EVANS

Mr.

Terul.

Mr. Iiotter.

Tele. Room.

Miss Himes.

Miss Gandy.

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (92-793)

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA aka

AR

ANTIRACKETEERING

(00: CHICAGO)

On 11/6/6/3, PCI LOWELI WILLIAMSON advased that

BEN SWIFT Of For t Lauderdale, Florida, and CHRISTINE MC GUIRE

visited him and DOROTHY MC GUIRE (wife of PCI) in Calgarÿ.,

canada. Va

-SWIFT and CHRIS MC GUIRE advised PCI that GIANGANA

had stated: that PORFIRIO RUBIROSA had a photograph purportedly

showing-RUBIROSA in a compromising position with PAT LAWFORD.

the wife of PElER LAWFORD, the movie actor.

GIANCANA indicatec

he was trying to obtain this photo and if successful this

"solve all of my problems" with the government.. V

was talking about going

¿ PCI advised this is undoubtedly the reason GIANCANA

• to Paris, France, and PCI had

mistâkenly thought GIANCANA was going for gambling reasons.

Miami

the above, VACB.

will not interview PCI BeN suit concerning

4/24/ 5P5213) u

to bet asa

REC 48

9,2-3171-1244

1

Bureau (92-31(1)

- Miami (92-170) (Info

New-York 1131-95191

- New York (92-793)

•2:A NOV y 1963

9T564

CAD: IW (7)

Approved

Bit in chase

Sent .

_M

Pier

DocId:32310020 Page 3

---

