# docid-32294819

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10214-10095

HQ

92-2717-142

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/10/1961

5

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

ABR, ADDRESS BOOK, PEP, TRA, PASSPORT AND VISA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

02/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32294819

Page

70

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Reiv. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Datk:/10/61

PLAIN TEXT ANY

(Type in plain text or code)

REGULAR

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2717)

FROM:

SAC, PHILADELPHIA (92-444)

TITLE:

ANGELO BRUNO, aka

AR;

- (00: PH)

Re Newark airtel to Director 4/5/61, no cos

New

York or Washington Field.

Daily airtel.

on 3/22/61 ANGELO BRUNO questioned by Phila-

delphia PD.

The PD obtained copies of ANGELO BRUNO'S

address book and personal papers in his possession.

A business card carried by BRUNO reads as follows:

"#10

maquinas,

Administrator General-Tesorero

Isabel

-La Catolica No.

much.

1*77

Karen

telephone: 2-9944

handwritten - 29211

C.

31249

nothing on reverse side"

Bureau (92-2717)

Miami 192-139

Newark (92-748)

New York (92-739)

EX-114

washington Fleld (92-446)

Philadelphia (92-444)

1 - 134-1011-sub A (SANTONI)

REG 7

92-2712-142

JRP/ omr

(13)

2' DEL! 0:

sual

APR 11 1961

-iA.

ітиод

ADD

Approved: &

524041

Special Agent in

Ch

Sent

Per

DocId: 32294819

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-444

Stationery in BRUNO's luggage headed, MAQUINAS

ae DIVERSIONES. C. Par A Cuidad Trujillo, Distrito

Nacional Republica Dominicana.

The address appearing or

the stationery was

Isabel La Catolica No. 23, Telefono

2-9944.

This stationery had typed thereon, "Report on the

Distribution of Machines for the Month of February,"

indicating cash deposited $25,461.10, and itemized

totaling $25,300.95.

The first item of expense was listed

"Paid to Government 40%, $10,184.76." Other items of

expense were "Native salaries

and wages, $2,052.80; American

salaries $1,650.

Newark by airtel 4/5/61 advised that Export

2-6715 was listed for NORMAN FROMKIN, 27 La Clede Avenue,

Trenton, N. J., and listed under the

name of C. P. RUDLIN

of the same address instant telephone and address book

O1 ANGELO BRUNO). City Directory, Trenton, N. J., indi-

cated listing for Mrs. MARTHA FROMKIN at above Trenton

address, but no listing for a NORMAN FROMKIN.

Records, Credit Bureau of Trenton, N. J., in

a report dated 1957 lists NORMAN and MARTHA FROMKIN reside

525 - 88th Street South, Surfside, Fla., and former resi-

dence 27 La Clede Avenue, care of CLAIRE RUDLIN, MARTHA

FROMKIN's sister. This credit report showed FROMKIN em-

ployed 1957 "by U. S. Government in Dominican Republic

for vending business."

Foreign Consular Offices in the United

States dated 1960, Department of State Publication 6982,

released June 1960, does not contain name NORMAN FROMKIN

as consul or honorary consul for the Dominican Republic

in the United States. FROMKIN was indicated as being

formerly in confectionary and vending business with last

employment shown as manager, Eagle Vending Company, 355

home at manate a ene

operated by "BEN GOLOB,

whose last recorded address

405 East San Marino Drive, Miami Beach, Fla. ("'BEN GOLOB"

believed identical to BEN GALOP - phonetic - who PH 269-0

previously indicated as very close associate of captioned

subject in the Miami, Fla., area).

- 2 -

DocId: 32294819

Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-444

Records New Jersey BMV, Trenton, described NORMAN

FROMKIN as being born 1/1915, Philadelphia, 5'8", 141 -

160 pounds, brown hair, self employed as executive.

ground, advised SA EDWARD A. SMITH that all slöt-machine

operations in the Dominican Republic must be personally

approved by VIRGILLO ALVAREZ PENA, the uncle of Generalissimo

RAFAEL TRUJILLO. SANTONI stated that in order for a foreign

company to operate in the Dominican Republic, it is necessary

to "kick back" to the government anywhere from 30% to 60%

slot machines in the Dominican Republic.

SANTONI advised that he was not personally

acquainted wiüh NORMAN FROMKIN, but that in the summer or

1960, an individual from this company assisted him in

repairing his car when it broke down in front of the company's

headquarters on Calle Isabel La Catolica.

SANTONI described

this individual as a large, heavy-set, balding American

with blond hair who constantly smoked cigars.

During the

course of the conversation,

SANTONI learned that this

individual had an apartment near the Marian Hospital,

ciudad, Trujillo, and that he was married and had at

least one child.

It is not known if this individual is

identical with FROMKIN.

on the reverse side of the above-mentioned

stationery was a roughly sketched map and Spanish names which

the informants believed were written by a non-Spanish individual.

Analysis of the handwriting reflected the names to be the

following cities in the Dominican Republic:

Santiago, San Francisco de Macoris, Ia Vega

Barahona, Puerto Plata, Casa Blanca, Independencia.

It should be noted that the word arcade or

casino arcade is written after some of these names.

Dr.

SANTONI advised that a large amusement park in Ciudad

Trujillo is Independencia, which is controlled by the

TRUJILLO family.

-3 -

DocId: 32294819 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PH 92-444

39128

Analysis of the rough draft map by Dr. SANTONI

was inconclusive, but a rough guess by him indicated the

possible location of many guard posts at intersections in

Ciudad Trijillo. Dr. SANTONI advised that hundreds of these

guard posts are located throughout the Dominican Republic and

soldiers who stop and search every

vehicle that passes.

Dr. SANTONI advised that a well-known Dominican

businessman whom he knows personally to be opposed to the

Trujillo Regime had recently arrived in Philadelphia for

treatment by Dr. SANTONI at St. Joseph's Hospital.

On 4/10/61 Dr. SANTONI stated that after a

discussion with his patient from the Dominican Republic,

he ascertained that Maquinas de Diversiones C. par A. was

excanding its operations both in Ciudad Trujillo and

towns throughout the Dominican Republic.

He advised that

his source told him that the company was building new

headquarters near Independencia Park near the former

Presidential Hotel. The source further advised that

additional buildings were being constructed by this com-

pany on Mercedes Street and Palo Hincado. Dr. SANTONI

stated his source told him that the company was building

a new office in the Casa Blanca section,

which is located

in the poor neighborhood of Ciudad Trujillo on Braulio

Alvarez Street.

SANTONI's source advised him that the

main headquarters for the company were located on Calle

Isabel La Catolica, and that all slot machines in the

Dominican Republic are repaired at this location.

Dr. SANTONI stated that both he and his source

were of the opinion that Dictator TRUJILLO encouraged this

company to expend in order to increase their own personal

revenues by taking a larger cut of the profits.

SANTONI advised that he would discreetly attempt to

obtain additional information concerning this company and

its officers through his sources in the Dominican Republic

Underground.

LEADS

MIAMI:

(1)

Miami is requested to expedite investigation

requested in referenced airtel to further identify NORMAN

FROMKIN.

- 4

-

DocId: 32294819 Page 5

---

