# docid-32323998

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90024-10022

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1165

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LV

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/06/1963

3

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/10/1998

SAM GIANCANA

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TT

v9.1

DocId: 32323998

Page 1

369

---

## Page 2

MAATMENT SE

MRICATIONS SECTION

AUG 6

TELETYPE

23020L70

Mr. Tolson d

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Molr

Mr CarpeT

Mr.

Mu Sach

Mrs Evans

Mr. Gale

Rosen

Ma Bullyan.

Mr

Mr. Trotter

Tele: Room

MisB

Holmes

Miss Gandy.

URGENT

8=6-63

2-55 PM:

dIs

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 92-3171, SAC, CHICAGO 92-349 AND

SAC, NEW YORK 92-793

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

• NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON

SIMED Y

FROM SAC, LAS VEGAS 92-308

DATE 4237N BYSPREG

SAMUEL MO GIANCANA, ARA. ARO DO CHICAGO.

RE NEW YORK TEL JULY TWENTY NINE, LAST AND LAS VEGAS

TEL JULY THIRTY, LAST. U

RETELS SET FORTH INFORMATION CONCERNING SUBJECTS RECENT

TRIP TQ-RENO AND LAKE TAHOE, NEVADA, AREA, DURING LATTER PART

OF JULY, NINETEEN SIXTY THREE. SUBJECT IS LISTED IN QUOTE

BLACK BOOK UNQUOTE BY THE NEVADA GAMING CONTROL BOARD PAREN

GCB END PAREN WHICH MEANS HE IS ONE Of SEVERAL INDIVIDUALS

NAMED BY THE GCB WHO CANNOT FREQUENT ANY GAMBLING CASINO.

SUBJECT ENTERS A

CASING AND LEGENSEE DOES NOR FARE MOZA- 116 5:

§STEPS TO REMOVE

0. 2020183

HIM, LICENSEE MAY FACE LICENSE REVOCATION BY 1963

NO GAMING COMMISSION. GCB DEVELOPED INFORMATION ON HEEKLOY

O JULY TWENTY SEVEN, LAST, THAT SUBJECT WAS POSSIBLY IN RENO DASH

(LAKE TAHOE AREA.

GCB ALSO DEVELOPED INDEPENDENT INFORMATION

END PAGE ONE

RELAYED TO

DocId: 32323998 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE THREE

NEVADA WOULD BE PAID BY GCB. NEW YORK AND BUREAU REQUESTED

TO ADVISE IF LAS VEGAS CAN FURNISH TRUE IDENTITY AND LOCATION OF

VICTOR COLLINS. ALSO NEW YORK REQUESTED TO CONTACT PCI

TO DETERMINE IF VICTOR COLLINS IS AVAILABLE FOR INTERVIEW

AND IF HE IS WILLING TO TESTIFY RELATIVE TO SUBJECTS

PRESENCE AT CAL DASH NEVA AND FACTS OF FIGHT WHICH OCCURRED•

ALSO DETERMINE FROM WILLIAMSON PRESENT LOCATION OF ALL THREE

MC GUIRE SISTERS. NEW YORK SUTEL. 4

CHICAGO IF KNOWN SUTEL SUBJECTS LOCATION. AIR MAIL

COPIES SENT TO LOS ANGELES AND NEWARK. ARMED AND DANGEROUS. U

END AND ACK PLS

6-03 PM OK FBI WA MSL FOR RELAY

CG 5-02 PM OK FBI CG PEO

TU DISCM

• 7

DocId: 32323998

22001-/ 20163

Page

---

