# docid-32290801-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10206-10077

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-503

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/26/1962

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

GAL, ASSOC, ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9

320

---

## Page 2

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

O.'S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

APR 2 6 1962

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Cellehan.

Mr.

Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans

Mr. Maione.

Mr. Rosen

MIr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter_

Tele. Room

Misg Holmes.

Miss Gandy.

DEF

RRED

4-26-62 8-20 PM CST EAH

TO DIRECTOR, FBI /92-3182/

SIA, CATCASO 192-375/ 1

ALEX, AKA. AR, DAILY SUMMARY.

PCI FRANK LA CROIX ADVISED THAT NATHAN

BUTCHLADON, CHAUFFEUR

FOR ALEX, IS NOW DRIVING A NINETEEN SIXTYTWO BLACK FOUR DOOR PONTIAC,

BONNEVILLE WITH ILLINOIS REGISTRATION KT FOUR NINE FIVE SIX. LA CROIX

STATED THAT LADON KEEPS THIS AUTO AT HIS RESIDENCE AT ONE FIVE FIVE

ZERO NORTH LAKE SHORE DRIVE. LADON INFORMED LA CROIX THAT THE PONTIAC

WAS A LEASE CAR FROM HENRY SUSK AND THAT HE COULD GET A SIMILAR CAR

FOR LA CROIX AT DEALER-S COST IF HE WANTED ONE.

INVEXTIGATION DISCLOSED THA ABOVE DESCRIBED PONTIAC IS

REGISTERED TO GRAND AUTO LEASING COMPANY, FIVE TWO ZERO NORTH WABASH,

CHICAGO. THIS IS THE ADDRESS OF HENRY SUSK PONTIAC AND THE GRAND AUTO

LEASING COMPANY IS A NEW SERVICE RECENTLY STARTED BY SUSK.

SUSK IS A VERY CLOSE ASSOICATE OF ALEX.

ALEX ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

END AND ACK PLS

WA AND HOLD

EX-114

9-25 PM M OK FBI WA MLL

1689 91-3182-503

39T'APR 2% 1962

O MAY 8

1962

---

