# docid-32328614

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90076-10129

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

~ AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

[Restricted]

DATE:

05/21/1959

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

ROBERT ARTHUR WILLIAMS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32328614

Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

MAY 2 1 1959

Transmit the following in

Via.

Type in plain text or code)

IRMAIL

REGISTERED MATI

DECLASSILER RY SPB MACKS ory o Method of Mailing)

00 - -21-95

REGRE

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (234-3548(1)

CLASSIFIED

VRE:

ROBERT ARTHUR

HEASCH FOR

12.1.2

SIFICATI

PSI - BuC

DECLAS

S.B.

1112-517

APPROPRIA

IND FIELD OE

ADVICED PI

SLIP

DATE

Ar

59

On 5/5/59, ROBERT ARTHUR WILLIAMS, 4253 N. W. 2md

Sto, Miam, Flas

came

to the Miami. Office and reported

he had recently

been proposicioned by & Cuban who identified

himself as 1. SERGE BURRELL, Of Miami, to conduct certain

149

investigations for the Cuban

Air Force Intelligence.

WILLIAMS

said he is employed as Assistant Collection Manager,

Bank, and that in connection with his duties of recovering

Pan Americ

automobiles and collecting money borrowed.

, he has come in

contact with many Cuban exiles and revolutionaries in Miami.

WILLIAMS, a World War II veteran, stated that he would like

to cooperate with

the FBI in any

way possible, but at the same

time did not

want to violate any laws of the U. Soy

Ques

During the succeeding few days, WILLIAMS advised

he had been recontacted by BURRELl and had been introduced

tO ALONS® IDALGO, BARRIOS, Cuban Consul General, Miami; to

MajOr MARCOS DIAL LANZ, Inspector.

and Assistant Chief of the

Cuban Air Force (FAR) ; to Captain FRANK-FIORINI, an American,,

who is presently alleged to be working for the Cuban AlI Forcey

and others.

WILLIAMS Identified photos of FIORINI, and HIDALGO

REC- 18

3

Bureau (AM)

2

•Albany. (AM)

(RM)

134-8743-2

(RM)

2- Cleveland (AM (RM)

St.

Louis: (AM)

(RM)

20 MAY

NO ONE

DENTIAL

51959

washington

Miami

GED

(13)

Approved:

Sent

Speci

Agent in Charge

Naple

M

Per

NAT. INTELLI

ГЕСТ.

DocId:32328614

Page 2

3%44

ECORDED

COPY FILED IN

---

## Page 3

N 234-354 6(4)

On 5/15/59, WILLIAMS was paid $35.00 by BURRELL

for services rendered in furnishing information concerning

a Piper Apache Airplane and pilot, in which Cuban Air Force

was interested.f{U)

It appears

that WILLIAMS has an excellent potential

as a PSI. He has furnished the following background information:

Date of Birth

1/14/25, Duryea, Pa. MIST

Parents

Father - Rev. ARTHUR THEODORE WILLIAMS

Mother - WINIFRED ROBISON WILLIAMS

Service record

Served in U.S. Air Force, SN 33591588,

as tailgunner in 99th Bomb Group; flew

51 missions and honorably discharged in

1945 as Staff Sgt. Prior to his discharge,

went AWOL for 97 days as result of wife'el

refusal to live with him

Employment

1/57 became employed by Southern Bell

Telephone and Telegraph Co., Miami;

1952 transferred to Ohio Telephone and

TATIAL

1954 became Methodist minister while

attending Hartwick College, Oneonta, N. Y.,

and while residing at Mt. Upton, N. Y.,

was

pastor of Mt. Upton Methodist

Church, and Rockdale Community Church.

Also served as Chaplain while at Mt. Upton

for Sidney Hospital, Americal Legion,

and Butternut Lodge

515 of Masons at

Gilbertsville, N. Y.;

1957, upon returning Miami, employed by

Life and Casualty Insurance.Co. of Tenn. s

for 3 months;

1957 employed by Lenders, Inc., as

assistant manager for 2 months;

Since 2/58, employed Pan American Bank,

Collection Dept., where his immediate

supervisor is MI. HOWARD WALTERS. HOMER

SMITH, V. P., Pan American Bank, is his

Department Chief.

= 2 =

DocId: 32328614

Page 3

---

## Page 4

N91 134-354 38(4)

Previous residences

Education

Marriages

И)

MRS, ROBERT ARTHURS

Miscellaneous

Beginning 1952, Genoa, Ohio, while

working at Toledo, 509 Main St.;

Beginning 1954, Mt. Upton, N. Y.,.

no street address, (close friend of

C. I. WADSWORTH, prominent citizen,

Upton, N. Y. ;)

Miami

address - 4253 N. W. 2md St.

Attended Lindsey Hopkins Vacational

School, beginning 1947, receiving

equivalent of high school diploma in

1948;

Beginning 1954, attended Hartwick

College, Oneonta, N. Y.;.

Beginning 1956 transferred to State

Teachers College, Oneonta, N. Y.

At the age of 16, married MABEL FETTER

of Rineholds, Pa., in May, 1942, at

Elkton, Md.

Divorced in 1946 or 1947,

in Miami,

Stated this marriage was a

big mistake, that his wife was several

years older then he was and in 1946, wife

caused him to be arrested in Philadelphia

for false charge of beating her father.

This charge was dropped and WILLIAMS is

not certain whether or not he was

fingerprinted and formally charged with

any criminal offense.

Miami; divorced in 1948 or 1949, in

Miami;

Third and present marriage to ARLA

BLANCHE BELL in Miami on 2/25/50. She

is graduate of Nyack Bible Institute,

Nyack, N. Y. She is employed as medical

technician by DI. LAWRENCE MEDOFF.

WILLIAMS has stated he has a private

pilots license and frequently rents planes

in Miami from Hertz.

• 3=

DocId:32328614

Page 4

---

## Page 5

LEADS

Bureau is requested to check indices and files

for any pertinent information relating to ROBERT ARTHUR

WILLIAMS.,

Albany at Oneonta and Mt. Upton, N. Y., will

conduct appropriate investigation to determine WILLIAMS'

Loyalty, reliability, stability, etc. (u)

cleveland at loledo and Genoa,

similar investigation requested of Albany.

onio, will conduct

St. Louis at St. Louis, Mo., will

contact DDMPRC,

ARG, for all pertinent information relating to WILLIAMS'

service record.

(u)

Washington Field and the Federal Aviation Agency,

will check records pertaining to WILLIAMS' pilot's license,

for verification and any other pertinent information relating

and raining

to his qualifications as

a PSI,

(u)

Offices receiving copies of this airtel, are requested

to expedite investigation requested as WILLIAMS is presently

volunteering information to Miami several times a week,

and is in a position to be of considerable value to this

office in connection with its investigation of revolutionary

matters.

(4)

DocId: 32328614 Page 5

---

