# docid-32585262

## Page 1

T-3 (RéX1-22-661-4

DECODED

СОРУ

J AIRGRAM

CABLEGRAM

RADIO

*X TELETYPE

Conrad

Felt

Gale/=

Rosen .

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room -

Holmes -

Gandy -

4:27 PM CDST URGENT

TO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO 291902

6-29-66 JLS

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINE

HEREIN IS UNGLASSED

DATE 4-24-84

3/SP5R56 COL

Anti-racketeering

also known as

Office of Origin

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, ARAO AR. DO:

: CHICAGO.

REC 43

'od"

CG 6690-C-TE ADVISED JUNE 28 LAST THAT SINCE GIANCANA

WAS

RELEASED FROM JAIL, HE HAS NOT TRIED TO "PICK UP THE PIECES""

BY REASSERTING HIS AUTHORITY AS TOP LEADER OF ORGANIZED CRIME

IN

CHICAGO. INFORMANT STATED THAT ALTHOUGH HE PREFERS NOT TO,

SAMIRATTAGLIA CONTINUES TO FUNCTION AS ACTING BOSS OF CHICAGO ILL

HOODLUM GROUP JUST AS HE DID WHILE GIANCANA INCARCERATED. INFOR-

MANT, STATED SOURCE OF HIS INFORMATION IS PAMAROY, SECRETARY

OF DEMOCRATIC FIRST WARD ORGANIZATION. IN SUPPORT OF THIS AL

CHICAGO SOURCES AND INFORMANTS CONTINUE TO ADVISE THAT GIANCANA

NOT IN EVIDENCE WITH HIS NNOWN ASSOCIATES ANYWHERE IN CHICAGO

AREA. NEIGHBORHOOD SOURCE ADVISED JUNE 29 INSTANT SHE HAS NOT

OBSERVED GIANCANA IN VICINITY HIS RESIDENCE, BUT NOTICES LIGHT

ON IN BASEMENT APARTMENT. WHICH HE IS KNOWN TO OCCUPY. GIANCANA

HAS BUILT HIGH CORRUGATED STEEL FENCE SURROUNDING BACK YARD OF

REC: 43 EX-103

MAR. DELOACH FOR THE DIRECTOR

92-3171-18657

NO JUL 6 1 1966

ve message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphras

eau's cryptographic systems.

DocId:32585262

Page 1

---

