CG’ 92-373
2. Will verify the possibility that ALEX may have
invested in Automatic Canteen Stock within the past several
years, particularly since ALEX has shown no income from
securities in the past.
INFORMANTS
CG T-1 is CG 6588-C-TE contacted by SA RUSSEL R. GIRSH.
CG T-2 is CG 6443-C-TE contacted by SA JOSEPH G. SHEA.
CG T-3 is CG 6837-C contacted by SA ELLIOT W. ANDERSON.
CG T-4 is CG 6884-C contacted by SA PAUL B. FRANKFURT.
CG T-5 is CG 6502-C*.

CG T-6 is CG 6187-C contacted by SA ROBERT L. MALONE.

-B*- =

COVER PAGE

Dpy- NOV Es

- Seed

Docld:32556689 Page 1


CG 92-373

Iv. Criminal Activities

CG T-4 advised on June 7, 1965, that he had reason
to believe that ALEX is active in "fixing" and in this
connection is frequently in close contact with JOE BULGER,
well-known attorney for the hoodlums,

CG T-2 advised on June 17, 1965, that GUS ALEX
has first count on the policy money from the South Side
policy operations.

V.__-Travel

Chicago received
information that the 6S have furnished no
information concernin n recent days. It
should be noted, however, that unless the exatt dates of
arrival or departure from Switzerland were provided, it ~
would be virtually impossible for them, the Swiss Authorities,
to confirm FUEGER's presence in this country.

By letter dated June 17, 1965, Chicago was advised
that on June 15, 1965, the Criminal Police of Paris, France
advised that following an extensive search of their records,
French Customs Authorities have been unable to locate any
record that FUEGER declared three mink coats and jewelry
at the time she entered France. It was felt that these.
belongings apparently were not questioned and no record was
made at that time when FUEGER was in possession of them.

CG T-5 advised that FUEGER returned to Chicago
on the evening of. June 24, after having been in Europe since
May 13, 1965, Her exact whereabouts while in Europe. are
unknown. This informant further advised that ALEX made plans
for a big trip shortly after FUEGER left, and is of the opinion
ALEX had intended to join FUEGER in Europe but cancelled
these plans due to the serious illness of his mother, OG T-5 ||
also advised he believes ALEX is near a nervous break down.

VI. Gambling

CG T-6 advised on July 29, 1965, that there is
a large bookmaking operation being conducted in a cigar store,
located in the lobby of 127 North Dearborn Street, Chicago,
One (First Name Unknown) AAORNSON, formerly owned and. operated
this store but was pushed out about two weeks ago. ©

Informant said ARNOLD GEARIS bought the store for
$3,000 under orders from GUS ALEX, ARNOLD is personally

+ sit Wi if

Docld:32556689 Page 2

