# docid-32293370-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10211-10146

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2781-877

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LABADIE, STEPHEN J.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/28/1.963

PAGES: 32

SUBJECTS:

LST, ALIAS NAMES, BUSS, TRAVEL, ASSOC, FISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4,10a2

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

- DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

33

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

10Q2-15

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

TAMPA

DUCT 28 1965

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

9/20 - 10/22/63

TITLE OF CASE

REPORT MADE BY

SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE

CHANGED:

SANTO TRAFTICANTE,

CHARACTER OF CASE

JR., aka,

B. Nardt, Hayden Stone

AR

Title

changed

to add allas, B,

NARDI as & result of Miami

investigation

that one passenger boarded EAL Flight 742, under

'name B. NARDI and that circumstances suggested subjoct probably

used this name.

Alias HAYDENYSTONE is also added based on

Information furnished by MM 848-C that subject used

such name

In business, contacte as own name

too well known.

BEFERRISE

Report 01 SA

STEPHEN J. LABADE,

dated

9/30/63 at Tampa;

Tampa

letter to Bureau, dated/ 9/23/63.

•P=

TYPED BY

dmb

101

ENCLOSURES:

TO BUREAU:

Original and copy of letterhead menorandum reflecting

information reported by MN 845(*

Oragidal and copy of letterhead memorandum characterizing

APPROVED

informanto

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

Bureau

(92-2781) (THesAY

1

USA,

Tampa

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92.278/1877

Atlanta (92-135) (Enc 2)

3

• Miami (92-88) (Enc 2)

1

wur 29 1963

• (1 - USA, Miami,

ATt: MY

2 - Philadelphia (Enc-2)

WILLIAM KENNEY 1- DEEP

Tamps (92-1)

ic D*D

Dissemination Record Of Mached Ropor

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

6

4. HOV

SITY

1557

MCT. Y

REC- 103

---

## Page 3

FD-269 (Rey, 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

TAMPA

CHANGED

SANTO TRAFFICANTE;

JR., aka,

B. Nardl, Hayden Stone

POET 2 8 1963

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

9/20 - 10/22/63

REPORT MADE BY

SẠ STEPHEN J. LABADIE

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED BY

dinb

10

sts

Title changed to add alias,

NARDI &s a result of Miami

Investigation that one passenger boarded EAL Flight 742, under

'name B. NARDI and that Circumstances suggested subject probably

used this name.

Alias HAYDEN STONE is alsp added based on

information: furnished by MM 848C that subject used such name

In business, contacts as own name too well known.

BEFERENCE

Report of SA STEPHEN S. LABADES,

dated

9/30/63 at Tampa;

Tampa letter to Bureau, dated/ 9/23/63.

• pa

ENCLOSURES:

TO BUREAU:

Original and copy of letterhead memorandum reflecting

infornation reported by Mi 845-¢*

oraginal and copy of letterhead memorandum characterizing

informa:

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

Bureau

(92-2781)

(Enoma)

2 • USA,

Tampa

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2781-877

Atlanta

(92-135) (Enc 2)

3 - Miami

(92-88) (Enc 2)

1 Uü: 29 1963

- USA,

Miami,

Att: Mr.

WILLIAM KENNEY

2

• Philadelphia

(Enc -2)

Tampa

(92-1)

iCe DED

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd..

By

# NOV

1908

REC- 103

---

## Page 4

TP 92-1

It was not known what effect the military coup in the

Dominican Republie and the overthrow of BOSCH will have on the

current negotiations in this matter.

CHARLES SAMS (protect), U.S.

Mail Carrier for subject's

Tampa residence for many years, advised 9/27/63, subject and

wife received, a postcard

believed fron Las Vegas or Los Angeles,

but same did not contain any name; only initials and greetings.

On 10/4/63, this same source advised neither subject nor wife have

received any mall whatsoever since the above referred to postcard.

This same source

advised on 10/7/63 that neither subject nor his

wife were

at residence 10/3 - 7/63 when

he had occasion to check

such residence.

On 10/2/63; MM 840-C advised at

Mian, Fla. he had contacted

who has

postponed his trip

to Brazil until sometime

October.

In discussion with PIDA the reason for the trip was

stated as to complete the coffee deal, but no further mention

was made of the subject.

CIt is noted that all previous information

concerning

PIDA was placed

on the administrative pages of previous

report).

Relative

to enclosed letterhead

memorandum reflecting

information

from MN 845-C*, It is noted that VINCENT JAMES

PALMISANO, along with others, reportedly has financial

interests

in ciro's, Inc., which in turn operates Ciro's Restaurant and the

Streamliner Moted,

both located at 15090 Biscayne Blvd., No. Miami

Beach, Fla®

It is noted also that some of the other individuals who

have financial interests with PALMISANO are from 'the New Jersey

New York area.

Information from the files of

the

General Telephone Company

of Florida,

Tampa, Florida,

was made available to IC HENRY E

MCINTURFF by Mr. WILLIAM CARR, Commercial Manager, on 9/20/63.

INFORMANTS:

TP T-1 is TP 120-C

TP T-? IS KENNETH LEON GUTERIE, PCI

TP T-3 is TP 97-C

B

COVER PAGE

---

## Page 5

TP: 92∞1

TP T-4 is TP 41-C

TP. T-5 is MN 848-C

TP T-6 iS FRANK RIOFSK, PCI

TY TOY IS MM 840C

TP T-8 is BEN CHASIN, Owner,

sea Gull Motel.

TP T-9 is TP 107PC

TP. T-10 is TP 50-C

Information set forth in enclosed letterhead memorandum was furnished

by MM 845- C$.

COVER

PAGE

---

## Page 6

TP 92-1

made of the recent "SAWYER incident"

• in which former Orlando

Captain R. D.

SAWYER had been

subpoenaed to

• testify before

Special Federal Grand Jury probing organized crime and gambling

Orlando.

(It is to be noted that SAWYER was subsequently

fired from

the orlando Police Department as a result of his

associations with known gamblers in the area).

Continuing, GOODE said that RODENBAUGil's conversation with

Polise De artment and 0 DENt to explod hot Flangs were

when he, RODENBAUGH,

was Chief of Detectives."

that this latter perlod covered part of 1951

(GOODE explained

and most of 1952)!

GOODE stated that RODENBAUGH

then advised Chief JOHNSTONE

that sometime during that pertod be, RODENSAUGH, had a meeting

in a parking lot by Orange Memorial Hospital, Orlando, with

HARLAN BLACKBURN.

At that time the two of them discussed arrests

that had been made of lottery operators in the area and that

BLACKBURN had asked him,

RODENBAUGH,

to go with him, BLACKBURN,

to Tampa, Florida in order to meet BLACKBURN'S boss. RODENBAUGH

said that BLACKBURN named his boss as being "TRAFFICANTE",

but

did not state his first name.

• RODENBAUGH stated that he told

BLACKBURN he would

him in Tampa.

not ride with him to Tanpa, but would meet

Continuing, RODENBAUGH advised that he did meet BLACKBURN

in Tampa and was taken to an office there and introduced to

"TRAFFICANTE". He further advised that the purpose of this

conference between BLACKBURN, TRAFFICANTE, and himself was for

the the purpose of placing himself (RODENBAUGH) On TRAFFICANTE's

payroll and that when they got around to that discussion,

TRAFFICANTE told RODENBAUGH that a great number of the latter's

detectives were on his payroll ät that time.

"RODENBAUGH said

he told TRAFFICANTE that he doubted that statement, however,

TRAFFICANTE sent BLACKBURN into a room to bring him in a record

book and RODENBAUGH was then shown a book containing a number of

detectives names and the amount of money they had been paid.

RODENBAUGH then explained to Chief JOHNSTONE and Lieutenant

GOODE that he felt this evidence was "too weak' for him to

take any official action upon, "because it would be my word

against, the words of the detectives involved, and I was unable

take possession of the record book. " RODENBAUGH also informed

15

92-2781-877

---

