# docid-32200368

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10275-10247

RECORD_ SERIES:

MM

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 89-35-545. 546

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. MM

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/11/1978

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 89-43-10396, 10398, 10399, 10397

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

12/05/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

INC LHM, INTV, MEMO, A/T

DocId: 32200368

Page 1

---

## Page 2

89-35

Miami, Florida

December 11, 1978

RE..

ASSASSINATION OF

1906-43

JOHN E. KENNEDY

NOVEMBER 22, 1963

DALLAS, TEXAS

By letter dated October 20,

1978, the United States

Secret Servico, Miami, Blozida, Furnished to the Rent I aureau

of Investigation (FBI), Miami, a copy of a letter

that agency

'the United States Drug Enforcement Administra-

tion (DEA) , Miani, Florida, dated October 13, 1978.

letter advised that an informant for DEA had indicated that

he was acquainted with Frani Sturgis of Watergate Notoriety,

and during a conversation Sturgis told the informant that he

had killed President John F. Kennedy This remark was supposed

to have been made in the presence of an individual by the

name of Bill Johnson.

DEA advised that this informant could

be

made available for interview.

On November 7, 1978, Peter F. Gruden, Inspector in

Charge, DEA, Miami, Florida, advised that the informant in

this matter was Thomas Joseph Holt.

Gruden stated that Bolt

was of questionable reliability, irrational, unpredictable,

and

described him further as a murderer and

perjurer.

He

advised that the only reason Holt was an informant for DEA

at this

time was that Holt had furnished information of internal

nature. Gruden advised that David

..R. Wiser, Inspector, DEA,.

Miami, could furnish more details concerning Holt.

On November 8, 1978, David R. Wiser advised that

Liolt had come to DEA and had made allegations of wrongdoings

against & DEA Agent.

Wiser advised that to date the internal

investigation in this DEA matter has not uncovered any evidence

to indicate any truth to the allegations of Molt. He advised

Wiser advised that Holt had stated that during the late

sunmer 1978, he (Holt) was on Biscayne Boulevard in the downtown

Miami area.

when he came upon Frank Sturgis, who was accompanied

by one Bill Johnson.

Wiser advised that

Holt stated that during

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI.

It is

the property of the fBI and is loaned to your

agency:

it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

1 a DALLAS (89-43) (Enc. 1)

5 - Bureau (62-10960). (Enc. 1)

I= Miami (Enc. 1)

DocId: 32209346/ Prage 2f1

Piw."

pWi

89-35-545

---

## Page 3

N2:

ASSASSINATION OF

JOHN F. KEENEDY

NOVEMBER 22, 1973

DALLAS,

TaXAS

this encounter, Sturgis stated that be had killed John I.

Kennedy •

Wiser stated that he asked Holt "why would Sturgis

inpart this interesting bit of news to Hole who was a

known goverment witness

and publicized DEA informant fron

the past?"

And Holt replied that it was

"one hit nan

to

another

Priser advised that Molt had indicated an intention

to go to the neva media regarding his allegations against the

DEA. Wiser further stated that he thought it likely that

Holt would also make mention of the Sturgis corment, in that

he had reported this to DEs, and that they had done nothing

about

it.

Weer advised for this very reason he vrote a reno

concerning that Holt had reported, and for this reason it was

furnished to the Secret Service.

Wiser nade avallable a copy of this meno dated

October 4, 1978, which is attached.

Wiser further stated that in a case in which Holt was

a witneas

for the prosecution Hole had allegedly called

defondant during a

trial and told him he was soing to

"get hin"

The defendant in this matter, at the time of the call, had &

recording of his telephone call made which was played

for the

presiding judge.

Bolt denied making the call to the defendant,

and the judge ruled that Holt's testimony could not be permit

ted.

On November 9, 1978,

Wiser had advised that Bill

Johnson was Willian J. Johson, date of birth March 11, 1931.

FBI nunber 133677C, last known address 1890 N.E. Il0th

Road,

Miani, Florida.

On November 31,. 1978, Wiser advised that Holt had

been polygraphed on three occasions by DEA on November 30, 1978,

and he had failed the three polygraphs concorning his allegations.

about DEA.

2

200368 - Page 3

---

## Page 4

FD-302 (RE,V. 3-8-77)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

12/11/78

Date of transcription

THOMAS i. HOLS appeared at the office of the

Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), 3301 Biscayne. Boulevard,

Miant, Florida, where he was interviewed by Special Agents PETER &.

SCHOPPERLE and DOU J, DINORD, FBI: Prior to the interview,

Special Agent (SA) SchopPeme

had explained to ME. HOLE that the

Fedoral Bureau of Investigation (2B1) was deatrous of knowing

any infornation concerning tenarks made by one FRANK STURGIS in

his presence concerning the assassination of President JOHN f.

KENNEDY at Dallas, texas.

nore advised that he is not that well acquainted with

TRALK STURGIS, but that he met him approzimately one year ago

at a party given at Port lauderdale, florida.

He stated that

he was introduced

to stUnGIs by

ia triend of his, BiLIx JOHNSON.

HOLD advised that at this party stunGIs had told him that he

hue been a hit nan for FIDEL CASTRO, and that both CASTRo and

he (STURGIS) had both worked for the Contral Intelligence Agency

(CIA) •

• At this point ta the interview, HOLl stated that

ROCRAFBILER, meAniNg TELSON ROCKEFELLER,

had been in charge of

the warren Cormiasion, and that it had been a cover up as far

as the assassination of KaminDY was concerned.

HOLd next stated

that the "bit" was done: in Desas to make it look like JOISON

(President XYNDON JOHNSCS) was at fault.

HOL? atated that he believed BILLY JOANSON way have

told stunGIs to say the above things, just to impress Bout.

wols next stated that shile at this party, STURGIS

had naned many people whon he stated wore "pig", and that he

knew these people.

Bobs statra that ho cunis stutoas nay

have killed sawntox bocause grunts had said that he could

"shoot a person's brains out at 1,000 yards vith a bingle

rifle and imagine what I could do with a Scope.*

HOLT 202t

stated that it STuncIs had made these comments to his concorning

toe assassination of hilts he was sure that be and probaby

tors tien to tter poop. e.

Hold stated that StURGIS was a man

approximately 50 years oid.

Hold next stated that he advised

BILL SOMSON had worked as an informant for the FBI, CIA and

Investigation on _32/6/78

at

Miami

Florida

- File #lant 09-35

by -

SAB FREER B.

SCHOPPERLS and

PRS/01

Date dictated

12/8/18

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is tne property of the FBt and is loaned to your agency:

it and its contents are.not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32200368 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 39-35

He stated that he knew sIly JOHNSON on and off for a

couple of years, and that JoaNsor was in his late forties.

He further described hin es a flin flam man who likes

to try to swindle money from wealthy women.

HOL? advised that in regards to the remark nade by

STURGIS,

it was during the latter part of the summer that he

vas On discayne Boulevard, at approxiately 125th Etreet near

Denny's Restauraat and Stave's Pizza, when BILLY JOHNSON

drove up in his car accompanied by FRANK SIURGIS. HOLT'advised

that at this time BILLY JOHNSON.told STURGIS that he (BOLT):

was a boston boy.

At this time HoLt advised STURGIS said

*I killed a boy from Soston named KENNEDY," HOLI advised that

he said;

• "Do you nean the President?" and STURCIS said "Yes.

BoLT advised that Joanson next laughed and said. "Ain't that

heavy :*

HOLT advised that STURGIS then said "I'll tell you,

nobody else."

holt advised that that was the end of the

conversation; and SURGIS and JOUNSON left. HOLT hezt advised

that he was facing murder charges in Broward County,

but that no trial date had been set. NOLf next stated that

he wanted to becone an informant for the ril, but that he

would have to have it in writing Boct turther related that he.

had been screved by DEA and his conversation bacame rambling

making no further sense.

Interview was terminated at this

point:

the following la background infornation concerning

BOLT:

NaRe

Date of birth

Race

FbI Number

HELL

byce

Beight

Weight

Place of eirth

Cuzrent Address

Telephone number

TRONAS JOSEPH: HOLT

March 23, 1941

White male

320 23 ₽

Brown

5 feet 10 1/2 inches

240 PoundS

Boston, Massachusetts

1627 North Stinton Avenue

Delray Beach, Florida

278-0190

DocId: 32200368 : Page 5

---

## Page 6

TO

OMAL FORM NO. 10

1873 EDITION

ESA SPMR INI

CARI 101-11:0

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Peter F. Gruden, Inspector-in-Charge

DATE:

pres

Oct. 4, 1978

FROM

.: David R. Wiser, Inspector

SUBJECT: Allegation by Thomas HOLT regarding the Assassination of President Kennedy

1. On October 3, 1978, Inspector Donald Clements and I were interviewing

Thomas HOLT regarding an integrity matter. During a rambling discourse

on his belief that the drug traffic is a manmoth conspiracy headed by

DEA, HOLT mentioned that he was acquainted with Frank STURGIS of Watergate

notoriety. HOLT stated that STURGIS once told him (in the presence of

one Bill JOHNSON) that he (STURGIS) had killed President John F. Kennedy.

When asked why STURGIS would impart this interesting bit of news to a

known government witness, HOLT replied that it was said by "one hit

man to another."

2. STURGIS' alleged Involvement in the late President's assassination

has been widely reported by the news media.

HOLT had previously stated

his intention to go to the news media regarding his allegations against

DEA. Therefore, he is likely to mention the STURGIS allegation as

well. Asguming that he would also tell them that he had reported the

allegation to two DEA Inspectors, I feel this memo is necessary.

3. Should another government agency wish to pursue HOLI's allegation, •

he said he was willing to meet with JOHNSON and discuss the matter on

tape to corroborate STURGIS' statement.

DRW/1h

5

DocI

0368

Page 6Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plen

---

## Page 7

Airtel

December 11, 1978

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

(ATTENTION: CONGRESSIONAI, INQUIRY UNIT)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (89-35) (RUC)

SUBJECT:

ASSASSINATION OF

PRESIDENT JOHN F..

KENNEDY,

NOVEMBER 22, 1978

DALLAS, TEXAS

Re Miami teletype to the Bureau dated 11/9/78.

Enclosed for the Bureau are five copies of an LiM dated

12/11/78, as captioned-above.

Enclosed for Dallas is one copy

of same LEM and original interview notes for THOMAS J. HOLT.

For the information of the Bureau and Dallas, in

the opinion of the interviewing Agents, THOMAS J. HOLT

a mentally unstable individual, and DEA suspects that he was

a one time heavy user of cocaine.

DEA has no objections to identity of HOLT (Name)

being set forth in LHM.

No further investigation is being conducted by the

Miani Office, and this matter is being considered RUC.

89-35-546

3 - Bureau: (Encs. 5)

- Dallas (89-43) (Info.) (Encs. 2) .

- Miami

finer.

DocId: 32200368 Page 7

---

