AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

COMMENTS :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

FBI
124-10222-10407

HQ

92-3267-543

FBI
SAC, LA
DIRECTOR, FBI

12/07/1963
2

JRO, FRIARS CLUB, ASSOC, TELCAL, RES, SUR

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Document Information

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified
4

Redact
04/18/1998

INDEFINITE

v9.1
| Docld:32298631 Page 1

12

Date:

5/1/2015


FD-26 (Rev. ,:613+56)

lan -
= ; 7 + Ww a

~ FBI a

Date: 12/7/63

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL AIR MAIL - REGISTERED
(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)
P) FROM: SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-113-C)

RE: © JOHNCKOSELLI, aka.
AR

LA 4268-C advised that on Monday, 12/2/63,
ROSSELLI arrived at the Friar's Club, Beverly Hills,
California, at about 5:00 PM. He walked into the
third floor room with IRVING LEFF, part owner of the
| Hotel Lost Frontier Corporation, but source does not
! know if LEFF and ROSSELLI arrived at the club together.

ROSSELLI received a telephone call from an
unknown person who apparently told ROSSELLI about someone
who had been in an accident as ROSSELLI told this person
to send some flowers for ROSSELLI.

fA
HERMAN SPITZEL was also at the Friar's Club and oy
asked ROSSELLI to make a telephone call and "straighten
out" some unknown matter.

LA 4268-C stated that ROSSELLI was partly
intoxicated when he arrived at the Friar's Club and
continued to drink upon his arrival and was in a jovial
mood.

The same informant said that ROSSELLI was at
the Friar's Club on Thursday, 12/5/63. When source atrived
at about 3:15 PM ROSSELLI was having a conference with
MORRIE SUESS, a motion picture producer and director.
ROSSELLI was still at the club at about 4:15 PM when source

left. pea
“3 REG. 19 male
& 3/- Bureau (AM-REGISTERED ) : 2 F267 oan
‘“-{"~ Tas Vegas (AM-REGISTERED) Fo fe ea 3 67 afi)

1 - Los Angeles <7

HFD: srb

(298 woes
ou”

a |

4 DEC 9 ies.

oo

a) reset

\. Sent M
Specjal AdefX in Charge

Approved:

 Reassunonstaes

| Docld: 32298631 Page 2


O -

LA 92-113-C -

Neighborhood source advised ROSSELLI stayed at his
Los Angeles apartment on Thursday night for the first time
during the current week. On the morning of 12/6/63 he was
observed leaving his apartment house in his 1963 Ford Thunderbird
and proceed towards Beverly Hills, California.

JOCH WALTERS, PCI, advised on 12/6/63 that JUDITH
CAMPBELL, friend of ROSSELLI and of SAM GIANCANA of Chicago,
returned to the Beverly Cress Hotel on 12/3/63 and that
VICKIE LOCKWOOD, -a girl friend of ROSSELLI, stayed at the
Beverly Crest Hotel the nights of 12/3 and 4/63. PCI said
he observed ROSSELLI at the Hotel on 12/5/63 but he has no
information that ROSSELLI visited either of the above women.

' DocId: 32298631 Page 3

