# docid-32326698

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90056-10005

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 166-4218-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: TP

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/29/1971

12

LOUIS HENRY FIGUEREDO

SAMMY PAXTON

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32326698

Page 1.

---

## Page 2

PD-263 kRev. 12-19-67)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVL STIGATION

REPORTING OFFÍCE

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

TAMPA

LOUIS HENRY

FIGUEREDO, JR.

DATE

1/29/71

REPORT MADE BY

SA JOHN R. BRETT

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

9/3/70 - 1/19/71

TYPED BY

rab

ITAR - GAMBLING

REFERENCES: Tampa report of SA JOHN R. BRETT, 9/30/70.

-P-

ADMINISTRATIVE:

On 9/18/70, TP 237-C advised FRENCHY CARON would not

take any more baseball bets. CARON gave as his reason the fact

that he has not been able to make any money on these bets. Stated

he has not lost a lot of money but just has not made sany. He

is supposed to be in pretty good financial shape right now and

supposed to have a $20,000 to $25,000 cushion to run his operation

on .

Stated he has made quite a bit of money booking horses and

has a couple of horse players in Lakeland that will bet heavy

on the horses; i. e., $200 to $400 a bet. Has said that he will

handle football bets.

JR. furnished FRENCHY with his line and probably takes any bets

that he does not want.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

CONVIC.

AUTO

FUG.

FINES

SAVINGS

- NONE

ACQUIT-

RECOVERIES

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR EYES CINO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

LYES INO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

183

SPECIAL AGENT,

IN CHARGE

1

2

2

Bureau

166-4218)

- USA,

Tar pa

-

Miami, forDOUGALD D.!.

MC MILLAN, Attorney in Charge

-

New Haven

Tampa (166-657)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

76614218-1

I RECT! •

713:011

COYFEB: 3

1971

erican li

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

LER

5 NOW! !'

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

Bivision Organized Crime

AAG, Criminal

Room

&i Racketeering Section

44

2+10-71

SIN

7O FEB 1 9 1971

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1970 0-375-139

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32326698

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 166-657

without counselling LOU FIGUEREDO, JR. and he feels that

FRENCHY is not completely

a part of LOU FIGUEREDO, JR.'s aC-

tivities. He also stated that LOU FIGUEREDO, JR. will not

take

bets after 11:00 AM on Saturday, and

there are only

JR. and give him any

action and one of these is FRENCHY CARON.. It is bis under-

standing that Lou, un does not accept bets from the average

bettor but takes these bets from people like FRENCHY who are

contacting the bettors and then passing on a large number of

bets to LoU, JR.

On 11/12/70, PCI KOVACH advised another salesman

FLA

at Jim Harrell Pontiac is a TOM BIRD.

BIRD used to work at

National Auto Sales also before coming to Jim Harrell Pontiac.

BIRD apparently knows or has bet with LOU FIGUEREDO, JR. as

he made

the comment that LOU, JR. only charged ten percent

but would not take any bet less

than $100.

Informant stated that LAMAR

BEVIS, who owns Tampa

Buggy Works, also bets with LOU FIGUEREDO, JR. and has commented

that LOU, JR. only charges ten percent.

On 11/13/70, TP 237-C made available line which was

put on the form published by "Multiple Sports Service," and

entitled, "Sports Journal, College and Pro Football Plus

Basketball News and Schedules."

Informant advised this line had been given to him

by M.

BURNs, who is now handling customers of FRENCHY CARON

since FRENCHY is no longer accepting bets.

BURNS is using a ten percent line or having the

bettor bet $11 to get back $10.

changes and can be called Wednesday through Saturday, for any

changes in the line on those days. It is informant's opinion

that BURNS is getting his line either through CARON or through,

CARON's source which informant believes is LOU FIGUEREDO, JR.

On 10/29/70, PCI M. B. BURNS advised he has an old

number for LOU FIGUEREDO, SR. and it is 251-3575; however, he

B

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32326698 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TP 166-657

does not know if it is a current number.

Stated FIGUEREDO

is very cautious in his operation, and he trys to call his

to his father.

On 11/23/70, PCI M. B. BURNS advised LOU FIGUEREDO,

JR. does not normally

take any of the betting action himself;

been to do to a 5. and refers any

On 12/3/70, TP 428-PC advised that he personälly

as been making football bets with LOU FIGUEREDO, SR. up un-

it about six months ago when source switched tổ

ALVAREZ no operates the Aleg ia Restaurant. Source Stated

that ALVAREZ was a personal friend and would bet source on

an even money basis:

Source stated that this is the reason

he switched from FIGUEREDO aS FIGUEREDO gives 6 to 5 odds.

Source stated that FIGUEREDO will accept bets at his apartment

on Azeele Street. Source stated that he has asked LOU, JR.

on several occasions where the line comes from and JR. will

only say that it is a Miami line. Source stated that the only

bettor whom he personally knows that bets with the FIGUEREDOS

iS EARL WATTS.

On 12/18/70, TP 134-C-TE commented that LOU FIGUEREDO,

SR.'s operation lost a considerable amount of money over week-

end of 12/12-14/70, particularly in the Lakeland, Florida, area.

Source commented that for the first time has personal know-

ledge that LOU, JR. accepts betting action both at his resi-

dential telephone and at the telephone of his girl friend's

house. Source stated that although he personally has not

placed any horse race action with Lou.

he does have

sonal knowledge that loU, In. will accept horse bets at tracks

He/stated that he is tied up

Se any wont be no one ate to rated ente, a

On 12/16/70, TP 41-C-TE commented that "RED JORDAN,

Who operates an insurance business in the area of West Kennedy

and Westshore and has

been in past years, had a box at Florida

C

COVER PAGE

made twen

DocId: 32326698 Page 4

---

## Page 5

TP 166-657

Downs and has formerly had race horses but claims has sold

all of his

horses.

Informant stated that JORDAN, when having

race horses, frequently received tips on a particular horse

and would be correct about 75 percent of the time.

Source

stated also on one occasion when JORDAN had a head-toshead

bet of $1,000 on a particular horse with LOU FIGUEREDO, JR.

and that

the horse lost; therefore, JORDAN paid FIGUEREDO

$1,000:

Source stated

that this is the only incident occurr-

ing between LOU FIGUEREDO, JR. and

JORDAN of which he has

personal knowledge, and that he has no personal knowledge that

JORDAN or THOMAS have ever placed any sport event bets.

On 1/5/71, TP 428-PC advised that he was conversing

With FIGUEREDO,

SR. on 1/4/71, and FIGUEREDO indicated that

he did very well over the weekend handling football bets on

the championship playoffs. Source claims that SR. accepts

bets at his apartment telephonically; however, source does not

know where JR. is taking his action.

Source added that he has never heard of either SR.

or JR. accepting basketball bets but source is definitely

certain that both would handle the bets if anyone wanted to

bet with them.

Indices check and file review by SA GEORGE W.

CARTER, JR. in New Orleans, indicates that JOHNNY PAXTON,

true name SALVATOR AMARENA, is no longer in the New Orleans

area.

Information contained in New Orleans file indicates

that subject returned in late 1966 to New Haven, Connecticut.

On 12/22/66, Detective FRANCIS NARDOZZI, Waterbury,

Connecticut, Police Department, advised that one SALVATOR

on 5/12/66, on a traffic violation

On 1/18/67, New Haven 292-C advised he knew SALVATOR

AMARENA, aka SAMMY PAXTON, as a former resident of Waterbury,

Connecticut, and Brooklyn, NeWOrk.

This source advised

AMARINA waS Supposed to have an aunt (name unknown) who

resides at 115 Oak Street, Waterbury, and he would occasionally

come to Waterbury and live with her for a while. Informant

D

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32326698 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TP 166-657

advised on this date that he had seen AMARENA about three

months ago and that AMARENA told him he had been in New

Orleans, but had to get out as he had been connected with

rackets• Informant advised that AMARENA did not

go into

further details

and only indicated that he needed

a job:

A New Orleans Police Department Intelligence report

dated 5/2/69, indicates that SAMMY PAXTON, aka AMARENA, had

departed New

Orleans several years ago to face censure

for

his inability to handle the job in the south.

No additional pertinent information regarding SAMMY

PAXTON is available in New Orleans files, and there is no in-

formation contained in New Orleans files

which indicates that

PAXTON is an associate of LOUIS FIGUEREDO.

LEADS :

NEW HAVEN DIVISION

AT WATERBURY, CONN.

By letter dated 11/23/70, New Orleans advised JOHNNY

PAXTON, true name SALVATOR AMARENA, who formerly operated a

night club in the New Orleans area, left New Orleans to re-

turn to Waterbury, Conn. AMARENA was arrested in Waterbury,

conn. in 1966, ir

traffic violation, at which time he had the

address of 115 Oak Street.

On 1/18/67, NH292-C advised he knew AMARENA Or PAXTON

as the former resident of Waterbury, Conn.,

and Brooklyn, New

streetand he is supposed to have an aunt residing at 115 oak

New Haven requested to attempt to determine present

location of PAXION and if he is in Waterbury, Conn., area deter-

mine his current activities with respect to gambling matters.

TAMPA DIVISION

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32326698 Page 6

---

