JFK Assassination System Date: 5/14/201
Identification Form

“Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10212-10410

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 92-6054-1ST NR 525

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC,CV
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/01/1963
‘PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :
LCN, MEMBERS, CRIMINAL ACT, SUSP
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: —Redact
_ DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1 6
Docld:32294134 Page 1


y _ 7 1D-36 (Rev. wey)

. Fcc et lee Peninsula:

Date: 11/1/63

Transmit the following in

(iype in plain text or code)

Via AIRTEL AIR MAIL
A riority or od 0:
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (157-742)
FROM: Sk gXcievetann (157-127
Pan 23 ( )
RE: CAVBOMB

Re CV airtel to Bureau, 10/25/63; and report of”
SA JAMES P, FLYNN, 7/1/63; at New York, captione LA: COSA.
aka., AR - CONSPIRACY", ; —

- On page 28 of referenced report under the caption °
of "Pittsburgh", NY T-2 furnished information regarding CHARLES
CAVALLARO (from Agrigento, Sicily). and one NICOLO GENTILE, 20.
former "Consiglieri" of the Pittsburgh "Borgata", who. -wen
to New York, possibly in 1932, and attended a meeting “wi

7 CAPIZZI, AMATO, GENOVESE, ANASTASIA, BIONDO, MANGANO:*
ect a At. this: time, ANASTASIA had GENTILE and CAVALLARO. trani
. MANGANO's -"Borgata". with the approval of MANGANO, and 'B.

From a review of records of INS, victim -CHARLE
was ‘born 2/2/02 at Agrigento, Italy. Further, -accord:
~ Bureau _

- 92-6054 ) - oh.

2:+..New York (info)

1 - 157-789 .

{ eS Beason} : (7A O05 4
2 - Pittsburgh (Info) NOT RECOBDED ©

1 = 157-154) T8 nov. 6 1963. ;

1 - 92-599) ia Le abi
4 (ney —— —— ——BARBON cory: :

1 = 92-748)

1 ~ 92-621)
RLJ/1ng
12

% Approved: Sent M

GU NOV 13 GGG KEE as Oa

\
1
t

(Docld:32294134 Page 2


cv 157-127

FBI Identification Division, CAVALLARO was arrested on

6/28/34, vy ATU, NYC, as CHARLES DI FRANCESCO; on 8/12/36,

by NYC PD as JOSEPH TROPICANO on a charge of 1697 petit -larceny
(blackjack); and at ATU, Buffalo, 8/29/36, on inquiry.

ABRAM D, ARMSTEAD, graduate, Howard University
Medical School, Washington, D,C., whose license to practice
medicine was suspended as a result of abortion, advised that
previously the Naples brothers brought him on the average
two avortion patients per week and, at the present time, he
-is averaging about two abortions a month.

ARMSTEAD stated that of late he has been almost
wholly ogcupied with the job of handicapping and betting
horses, and prior to the bombing-murder of VINCENT J, DE NIRO
(7/17/61), he placed his bets through DE NIRO and always was
paid when he won. After the death of DE NIRO, CAVALLARO moved
into DE NIRO's operation, and he won about $2,000 or $3,000
on horse bets and could not collect. Some time after this
he was held up by one JOE (LNU), a pickup man for CAVALLARO,
who, with another individual, took about $200 or $300 from him.

ARMSTEAD stated he definitely knew that CAVALLARO
moved into DE NIRO's operation and, for this reason, believed
that CAVALLARO was at least partially responsible for the death
of DE NIRO, i

PCI ANN GARMAN advised that about two or three weeks
before DOMINICK MOIO was found murdered at Canton, Ohio (9/3/63),
she saw and talked with MOIO at the Center Sandwich Shop,
Youngstown, Ohio, operated by the NAPLES brothers, where he
was talking with JOSEPH and JIMMIE NAPLES, She recognized
MOIO from his pictures being in the newspapers. While she
did not know his name before, she recalled that in 1961 and
1962 she saw MOIO in the company of BILLY NAPLES (bombing-murder
victim, 7/1/62), PCI thought it odd that MOIO was with the i
NAPLES brothers, inasmuch as there has been much talk that H
MOIO was responsible for the death of BILLY NAPLES. PCI heard
at the time of MOIO's death that JOSEPH NAPLES had gone out of |
town to meet MOIO and now believes that the NAPLES brothers |
were pretending to be friendly with MOIO by not blaming him
for the death of BILLY NAPLES, so they could maneuver him into
a position to kill him.

DocId:32294134 Page 3
