# docid-32585591

## Page 1

Date : 05/20/96

Page : 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER

124-10203-10067

RECORDS SERIES

: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

92-3171-2518

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: LEG, MX

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE. : 01/16/75

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS

:. SGI, ACT, TRA, MX, CG, IL

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 2, 4

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/20/96

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DocId: 32585591

Page

1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

For]

Assoc. Dir.

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

SEE REVERSE

Dep.-A.P.-Adm...

Dep.-A.D.-Inv.

SIDE FOR

201375

Asst. Dif.:

CLASSIFICATIONmin

ACTION

Comp.

Syst.

CONFIDEN HAL

ELETYPE

Ext, Affairs

Files & Com.

5:31 PM NITEL 1/16/75 MJD

CLASSTETER DECTITONS FINALIZED

Gen. Inv. _

Ident.

BY DEPARTIENT!

VLOY COMMITTAL (DRC)

Inspection

1018/85

Intell.

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

DATENR

TINTIATI

Laboratory

Plan.

Spec.

FROM

LEGAI, MEXICO CITY (92-132

Trainine

22696

SAMUEL

GIANCANA, AKAS ARJAN

APPROPPTATE AGENCIES

Telephone

Director Sec'y

AND FIMID OFTI

REBUCA JANUARY 8, 1975. 0

ADVISED PY ROL

ST,TP(S) 07

DAIT

CA

SOURCE IN MEXICAN IMMIGRATION WHO

HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE

INFORMATION IN THE

PAST ADVISED THAI THE ASSISTANI SECRETARY OF

GOVERNMENT RECEIVED

REPORT THAT SUBJECT HAD RETURNED TO •

CUERNAVACA AND INSTRUCTED THAT INVESTIGATION BE CONDUCTED TO

крів. та

DETERMINE IF THERE WAS ANY TRUTH TO THIS REPORT CASIN

Hales -JoK

Classified by 15,

OADR

Decles shy

MEXICAN IMMIGRATION IS INVESTIGATING

THE REPORT BUT CONSIDERS

THAI SUBJECI HAS NOI RETURNED IO CUERNAVACA BASED ON INVESTIGATION V

TO DATE 06) (U)

DEA, MEXICO CITY, ALSO RELAYED A REPORT THAI SUBJECT HAD

RETURNED TO CUERNAVACA BUT HAD NO DOCUMENTATI GET CORROBO BATAINE

FOR THIS REPORI. A U

OTHENISE

WHERE SHOWN

SUBJECT OBVIOUSLY WAS IN CHICAGO DECEMBER

17, 1974.U

416 ₴

MEXICO CITY CONFIDENTIALLY OBIAINED COPIES.OF. SUME OF MEG

EC- 104 C

2. 3/11

8-2518

END PAGE ONE

REYEWED BY FRIER ASK FORCES

isido

REASON-FCIM

DATE OF

REESASE IN FULL, 5

RELEASE IN PARTOURS

28 1975

DASE

JAN I7 1975

RY

1.259

ins 965

CONG

man so dae

DocId: 32585591 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MEX 92-1,3

its 1.

COMLIOOZIGI

PAGE TWO

PETITIONS FILED ON BEHALF OF SUBJECT WITH MEXICAN IMMIGRATION•

IT HAD BEEN REPORTED IHAT THESE WERE FILED BY THE ATTORNEY

JORGE CASTILLO BUI HIS IDENTITY DOES NOT APPEAR ON THESE

DOCUMENTS. ( CU)

ABOVE QUOTED SOURCE ADVISED THAT A NUMBER OF OFFICIALS OF

TENTIAL

MEXICAN IMMIGRATION ARE AWARE THAT CASTILLO WAS THE ATTORNEY FOR

THE SUBJECT. HOWEVER, HE DOUBIED THAT ANY OF THESE OFFICERS

WOULD BE PERMITTED TO TESTIFY AS TO THIS INFORMATION

HE NOTED THAT CASTILLO CAME TO THE OFFICES OF MEXICAN IMMIGRATION

IN LEPRESENTATION OF THE SUBJECT AL THE TIME OF HIS DERRAZION E

SUBJECT'S IMMIGRATION FILE IS RESTRICTED BUT SOURCE IS

ATTEMPTING TO REVIEW IT IO DETERMINE IF CASTILLO APPEARS ANYWHERE

THEREIN AS ATTORNEY OF RECORDI

BUREAU REQUESTED- TO ADVISE SAC, CHICAGO • L

END

"1"5

DocId: 32585591 Page

---

