= oo -C———— Stee |

JFK Assassination System Date; 6/4/2015
Identification Form

ou eeeeeesSsSeSsSseseeSSSSSSsseseee
Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10287-10417

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 97-4474-2ND NR 304
ee

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 05/11/1966
PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS :
MIRR, ASSOC, PLAN, SABOTAGE, SHIP, RAID, CUBA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: = 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Bbera: 32305287 Page 1° 2



27s 7%” SENTRAL INTELUGENCE AGENC by :
crass macertnt information effecting the National Defense of the United States within the meantag tho Espionage Laws, Title

contains
18, 038.0, Gece. 793 and To, the transmission cr revelation of which tn any manner to an unauthorieed person te prohibited by law.

COUNTRY Cuba - ee REPORT NO. CS pB-312/01304-66

SUMECT Sabotage Plans of Cuban ““pATE biste, «11. May 1966 .

Exile Groups CIA HAS NO OBJECTION 10

DECLASSIv.~;. « SND/OR, \ NO, PAGES 2 \Z
RELEASE CY UiA INFORMATION Né

RY THIS COCUMENT,

s

INFO. :
United States, Miami

with useful contacts in the émigré commun ty « :
' Paras. 4-5: A member of a group of Cuban migrés trained in the
techniques of information collection. . Hy group has provided

useful reports since 1961. . sects “ED by
cE Me:

. Ln Se .
z, On 2 April 1966 Arturo Gonzalez Gonzalez, also known as "El
‘ Pato", a leader of the Movimiento Revolucipnario Frank Pais
(MRFP), (Frank Pais Revolutionary Movement), said that the
MRFP planning to make an attack in the very near future,
possibly between 6 and 10 April, on the oil tanks of the
‘Avechabala Refinery, located.on the shore of the Bay of
Cardenas, Matanzas Province.

The MRFP has a 29-foot boat, named EL TERRIBLE, which has diese’
engines. The group also possesses C3 explosives, primacord,
detonators, a 50-caliber machine gun for which they are trying
to get ammunition, and other weapons for its personnel.

d.

The following geople are scheduled to participate in,the raid:
Cirilo Ginori,“ captain of the vessel; Manuel Quiza,” a guide;
Roberto Perez Fraga, a frogman; and Guillermo Ramirez and Luis
Fernandez, both gunners. . ’

On 12 April Jorge Gutierrez Ulla, chief ofpinformation of the
Movimiento Insurreccional de Recuperacion aR, Insurrectional|
Movement for Revolutionary Recovery), said fat the MIRR is
planning two operations, the first of which will be to gabotag
' a ship of some nation which_engages in trade with Cuba.” The
sabotage attempt will take place when the ship is in port ai
Miamj or in Puerto Rico. y .
y LTT

D4 JUN 20 19680-n-r-1-v> ba t-t-k re

_ . CONTROLLED IDISSEM .

ey
Bas

Docld:32305287 Page 2

Fol se, Hf

pare or 2 - 12 Apri1 1966 KP 148 ; ¢ rn (Grzly)
: fs Puyo (mitre.

1 PACES
DATE ACQ._ (15 April 1966) FIELD REPORT NO, UFG-8161, 8162
THIS 18 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTAI

‘SOURCE: ’. Paras, 1-3: A former Havana lawyer, who is an honest reporter \

ORIGINAL FILED IS 70 4—/,
