# docid-32293113-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10210-10389

HQ

105-81285-46

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CV

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 06/16/1960

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

REW, LTR, REL, RETURN TO US, SOURCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

N9.1

15

---

## Page 2

STANDARD; FORM NO. 64

• Office Memuiandum • UNITED SLATES GOVERNMENT

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-81285)

DATE: June 16, 1960

C8 SAC, CLEVELAND (105-3792)

super

ROBERT EDWARD WEBSTER

IS -R

(00: CLEVELAND)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNGLASSITED

(JAK)

Enclosed for the Bureau are five copies of a letterhead

memorandum concerning the subject.

The source contained in this letterhead memorandum is

NICHOLAS GRALIANO, a source oI intormation of the cleveland

Division, whose identity is concealed at his request.

The letterhead memorandum is classified Confidential

Inasmuch as the information furnished by GRAZIANO could

reasonably result in the disclosure of this source of

continuing value and jeopardize his future effectiveness.

The information contained in the letterhead memorandum is

taken from a copy of a letter from the subjeet to his

parents, which letter was furnished by the subject's

rather,

Mr. C. EWEBSTER, to Mr. H. JAMES RAND, III, by

cover letter dated June 7, 1960.

Autostatic copies of

both of these documents were provided by GRAZIANO to the

Cleveland Office and have been made a part of the sub A

section of subject's file.

of Invitation are in the process of being properly

notarized at Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, and stated that

as soon as he received the subject's birth certificate,

Naturalization Service, which he felt would come about

that week.

JAVCE

No further Investigation 1s being conducted at Cleveland

in this case and this case is being carried in a closed

status.

The Bureau will be kept advised of any further

developments.

2 - Bureau (Enc. 5) (RM)

REG 34

105-8/238557 44

1 - Cleveland

AGENCY STATe, CIA, INS

16 JUN 20 1960

{ENCLOSURES)

JFC/ IMO REQ. REC'D

DATE FORW 1a - 22.60

HOW FORW

0-144.

0-14E0-6

BY

510.ML

EX 101

52 JUN 23 1960

7334

---

