# docid_32328451

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90075-10023

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 92-3189-30

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 10/07/1960

PAGES:

142

SUBJECTS :

LEONARD PATRICK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

NW 45904

DocId: 32328451

Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

CG 92-374

VLI: plf

Report of SA VINCENT L. INSERRA dated 9/3/59

at Chicago.

Bureau airtel to Chicago dated 8/26/60.

-C-

INFORMANTS

CG T-1

CG T-2

CG T-3

CG T-4

CG T-5

CG T-6

CG T-7

OTHER 4

CG T-8

CG T-9

CG T-10

Mr. BECKER, Assistant Superintendent,

U. S. Post Office,

Chicago, Illinois,

to SA ROY D. RAGSDALE

IRWIN GOODMAN, Vice-President, Exchange

National Bank, Chicago, Illinois, to

SA RAGSDALE.

Immigration and Naturalization Service

(INS), Chicago, Illinois

SANDY SMITH, "Chicago Tribune" Crime

Reporter

Former PCI

to SA H. A.

SCHL INKER

CG 6241-C to SA JOHN B. HARRINGTON

EILEEN EDGAR;

Clerk, Security Department,

Illinois Bell Telephone Company, Chicago,

Illinois, to Investigative 'Clerk FRANCIS

G. KAHL

CG 6379-C to SA CURTIS A. HESTER

CG 6036-C to SA HARRINGTON

CG 6215-C to SA ROBERT L. BAKER

- B

COVER PAGE

20012-10053

NW 45904

DocId: 32328451

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-374

VLI: plf

CG T-11

CG T-12

CG T-13

CG T-14

CG T-15

CG T-16

CG T-17

CG T-18

CG T-19

CG T-20

CG T-21

CG T-22

CG T-23

CG T-24

CG T-25

CG T-26

CG 5902-S to SA RAYMOND J. DRISCOLL

PCI|

to SA, HAROLD D. SELL

Former Baltimore PCI HARRY LEVINE

CG 6283-C to SA VINCENT. L. INSERRA

CG 6013-C to SA CLARK A. HULL

CG 6272-C to SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER

MORRIS NATHAN RATNER, former Chicago

CI to SA FRANCIS J. STEFANAK

PCI ART DICKHOLTZ tO SA BRADNER C.

RIGGS

CG 6232-C to SA:WILLIAM A. MEINCKE

JOHN VALKANET, Police Officer, 4lst

District, Chicago Police Department,

to SA LENARD A. WOLF. Contact has been

insufficient to judge reliability

Dun and

Bradstreet, Chicago, Illinois

PCI

to SA CLIFFORD A. GRILL

Former CG 6168-C to SA THOMAS W. PARRISH

PCI LUIS KUTNER to SA C. LEONARD TREVIRANUS

who has furnished reliable and unreliable

information in the past.

CG 7518-CS to IC FRANCIS G. KAHL

PCI FRANK SECORA tO SA MARSHALL E. RUTLAND

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

• C

COVER PAGE

41212-19053

HW 45904

DocId: 32328451

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-374

VLI: plf

ADMINISTRATIVE

Information obtained from CG 6343-C*, if

utilized,

must be carefully paraphrased in order that

the identity of this source is not disclosed.

On December 18, 1959, CG 6343-C* advised that

a person believed to be LEONARD PATRICK briefly appeared

at Celano's and spoke with JAMES CELANO.

On January 18, 1960, CG 6343-C* advised that

LEONARD PATRICK spoke briefly

this date with FRANK

FERRARO, MURRAY HUMPHREYS, both Chicago top hoodlums,

and HY GODFREY, at Celano's.

Nothing of any pertinence

was reported from this conversation.

On May 16, 1960, CG 6343-C* advised that MURRAY

HUMPHREYS and HY GODFREY had a conversation at Celano's.

During this conversation, HUMPHREYS asked GODFREY if he

got ahold of "Rammey" for LENNIE PATRICK to which GODFREY

said that he "did get them together". RAMMEY referred to

is possibly one (FNU) RAMMEY who was reported by CG 6232-C

as a juice man for GUS ALEX in the big crap games.

D*

COVER PAGE

200.1:0.00:"

NW 45904

DocId:32328451 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-374

VLI: fes: pat

CG T-10 stated that these "district men" are required to

pay a certain sum of money each month to GIANCANA, who in turn,

turns over a certain sum to ACCARDO.

The district men are allowed

rather wide latitude in the means they exercise to raise this

money and any money they make in excess of the amount payable to

GIANCANA may be counted as their profit.

The informant pointed out

these payments must be made promptly and in cash and failure to meet

these obligations are generally deemed to be a fatal mistake.

This

informant pointed out that the principal thing that

the "syndicate" has to sell is protection. For example, protection

from police action and protection from other hoodlums.

The

informant noted the fact that gambling is protected from police

action and this inevitably gives rise to other criminal activity

such as prostitution, narcotics, and fencing.

The informant pointed

out that if the police are compromised in one activity there is a

certain reluctance to act in another direction.

The informant

stated that the district man is under considerable compulsion to

raise a certain amount of money each month, and if gambling revenues

are uncertain or inadequate he will turn to any means available.

On February 25, 1958, CG T-ll advised SA RAYMOND J

DRISCOLL, in answer to the question as to the existence and identity

of a "syndicate", was most emphatic that a "syndicate" exists and total

members might number as high as twenty-five.

CG T-1l doubted that

there

was anyone man in charge. He explained that certain men in

various levels of power exist in certain areas of Chicago. For

example, LENNY PATRICK and DAVE YARAS of Jewish parentage

control.

the Roosevelt Avenue area,

and their headquarters is at Roosevelt

and Independence Boulevard.

Gambling

Bookmaking

On February 26, 1958, CG T-12 advised SA HAROLD D. SELL

PATRICK as

an operator in a 50-50 book in

1948 and 1949.

This book was operated in a barber shop at 330 West

Roosevelt and

his payments were made to LENNY PATRICK at the New

awndale Restaurant in that neighborhood. CG T-12 states that at

chat time Parkick was in control of the New Lawndale Restaurant anc

there was a full-scale hard card book being operated there.

According to CG T-12, PATRICK had the area from Kedzie to Cicero and

from Madison south to approximately 18th Street. No one could open

a book or take on any bets unless he had the OK of PATRICK. At

that time PATRICK's lieutenants were YARAS and BLOCK.

- 32 -

diss. 199

NW 45904 DocId:32328451 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG 92-374

VLI: fes

was

a gambling room in the rear of this building which had an

entrance near 944 Eastwood Avenue. It was a big "pan" and poker

game mainly played by the "Jewish

i boys". He stated that he saw

several people driving big Cadillacs go into this gambling room,

but he did not know who they were.

He stated this room did not

have a liquor

bar, but did have a little snack or sandwich bar.

He stated that to the best of his knowledge, this game was

"wide open".

On March 18, 1958, CG T-15 advised that the gambling

joint at 948 West Eastwood is owned by MAX NEEDLER (phonetic),

and is controlled by the "outfit".

CG T-15 added that the owner-

ship and license of this place was in the name of BOB GRIFFIN Or

GRIFFITH who worked there at one time but is no longer there now.

According to CG T-15, GRIFFIN would like to get his name off of

these records, but was afraid to do so because of the "outfit".

CG T-16 advised on December 15, 1959, that during the

latter part of November a friend of his was approached by HENRY

FRIEDENBERG, the owner and operator of Arcadia Press.

Arcadia

Press is one of the three large distributors of football parley

cards in the Chicago area.

CG I-16 stated that the purpose of FRIEDENBERG's appreach

was to have his friend contact LENNY PATRICK. CG T-16 stated that

PATRICK was a fairly close friend of his and had been for approxi-

mtely 15 or 20 years.

He said that FRIEDENBERG asked his friend

to contact PATRICK die to the fact that BILL FINKEL had recently

died.

CG T-16 noted that FINKEL operated a "Jewish card room"

in the vicinity of Morse and Glenwood on the far North Side of

Chicago in the territory controlled by LENNY PATRICK.

FRIEDENBERG

asked his friend to urge PATRICK to let him, FRIEDENBERG, take

over the operation of this card room.

CG T-16 advised that as a result of FRIEDENBERG's request,

this individual met PATRICK on the night of November 23, 1959,

room,

and that FINKEL had operated the games in

the card room only

as a front for PATRICK.

PATRICK told informant's friend that the

room was, in fact, owned by PATRICK and that "out of

the goodness

of his heart" he was giving the widow of FINKEL $100, a month as

compensation for the loss of her husband's income.

PATRICK claimed that he already had someone else in

mind to take over this card room,

and that he should tell FRIEDEN-

BERG that he was "out of luck" in this regard.

- 41 -

28012-10053

NW 45904 DocId:32328451 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CG 92-374

III. ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES

Gambling

CG T-18 advised on October 9, 1961, that a bookie

named BEN CUTLER is operating his books mostly in Cicero,

Illinois, at the present time.

He said, however, that CUTLER

continues to operate to some

deeree in the vicinity of

Ogden and Kedzie Avenues in Chicago. According to CG T-19

LENNY PATRICK obtainss50 per cent of CUTLER's income from

operations.

CG T-18 advised on October 27, 1961, that he has

known LENNY PATRICK for many years as the gambling boss

in Chicago's 24th Ward and PATRICK obtains a 50 per cent

interest of all proceeds from gambling activity in this

Ward.

He said PATRICK's 24th Ward headquarters are in the

Douglas Park Hotel in about the 3600 block of West Roosevelt

Road, Chicago, and his office is directly behind the hotel

desk.

CG T-18 also advised that LENNY PATRICK's brother,

JACK

PATRICK is at the hotel more than LENNY.

CG T -18 further advised that LENNY PATRICK

approached him about two months ago and wanted him to open

a bookie operation.

PATRICK advised him this would be a

fifty-fifty deal with any police payoffs coming out of the

informant's 50 per cent.

The informant stated that he

turned PATRICK down on this deal.

CG T-19 advised recently that he had received information

that LEONARD PATRICK had recently become involved in an

argument with one LOUIS CIRIONA over the operation of a

horse book on the north side of Chicag.

CG T-19 stated that

CIRIONA is a runner for LOUIS BRIATTA who controls bookmaking

activities

in Chicago's Loop area. BRIATTA is directly

answerable to Chicago hoodlums GUS ALEX and FRANK FERRARO.

ba ma cus

Informant was of the opinion that the argument was due to the

fact that CIRIONA had been given authority to operate a horse

book in a particular area by SAM GIANCANA. This fact was

discovered by PATRICK who attempted to disuade CIRIONA from

operating. Failing to do so PATRICK reportedly went. to

GUS ALEX in an effort to settle the dispute.

- 57 -

NW 45904 DocId:32328451 Page 7

!

---

## Page 8

CG 92-374

Prostitution

On June

24, 1957, CG T-23 was contacted by SA

THOMAS W. PARRISH and advised that the underworld group had

controlled the complete operations of the call system run by

D. WHEELER and herself. She stated that they had forced them

into obtaining more and more girls for prostitution.

She

stated that LENNY PATRICK visited them on various occasions

demanding that they expand their operation or they would get

into serious trouble.

CG T-23 stated her last contact with

PATRICK was in 1953.

She stated that when she and WHEELER were arrested

by the FBI, PATRICK threatened to kidnap and kill her son

if she revealed any information regarding the operations of

the call business.

She further advised that on one occasion,

PATRICK told her she would get the same treatment that he

had given GROSS if she gave him any trouble.

CG T-23 stated

that GROSS was a Chicago politician who was

killed in gang-

land manner approximately five years ago.

CG T-23 advised that PATRICK is very friendly with

(FNU) NOODLEMAN who formerly ran a currency exchange on

Rush Street and handled a considerable amount of racketeer

She stated that when she and WHEELER were operating,

they deposited all the checks through NOODLEMAN. (IRVING NUDLEMAN)

Suspect in Gangland Slayings

It was reported to the Chicago Office in 1946,

exact date unknown, by an unknown source, that DAVE YARAS

and LEONARD PATRICK are reported to be the "torpedoes" or the

killers for the "syndicate".

It was reported to the Chicago Office in 1946,

exact date unknown, by an unknown source, that PATRICK

nay have had a part in the killing of WILLIE TARSCH anc

"ZUKIE the Bookie" ZUCKERMAN, West Roosevelt Road gamblers

who were killed in gangland style several years ago by

unknown persons.

- 55 -

20v8-100.50

NW 45904 DocId: 32328451 Page 8

---

## Page 9

CG 92-374

In 1934, LEONARD PATRICK was at a crap game

operated by POLSkY and CRATISH, and PATRICK told POLSKY

that he wanted a cut from this

game.

An argument followed,

and PATRICK seized a broken milk bottle and thrusted the

jagged edge into the face of one of POLSKY's men and cut

him badly. POLSKY then said that he would get even with

PATRICK for this incident.

Sometime later, POLSKY, CRATISH

and ZUCKIE ZUKERMAN were machine gunned to

death, reportedly

for robbing handbooks; however, it was generally known in

the neighborhood, that LEONARD

PATRICK was responsible

for these killings due to his feud with POLSKY.

According to CG I-14, sometime later, JAMES

RAGEN, a racing wire service operator, was slain.

the 24th Ward, it was strongly suspected that LEONARD PATRICK

and DAVE YARAS were responsible for this killing.

In October, 1947, Captain CONNELLY and

Lieutenant DRURY, suspended police officers, stated that

it was

alleged. that the same persons, PATRICK, BLOCK and

TARAS, were responsible for the shooting of "BUGSY SIEGEL",

a West Coast racketeer with reported connections in the

alleged Chicago crime "syndicate"

,because of the modus

operandi used in the shooting of

SIEGEL.

SIEGEL was in

the California residence of VIRGINIA HILL, a girlfriend

of his.

On September 10, 1948, LEONARD PATRICK was

interviewed in connection

with an investigation by the Chicago

Office at which time he stated that he resided at 4248

West Congress Street, Chicago, and that he, with his brother,

JACK PATRICK, operated the Lawndale Restaurant at 3714

orate academato

West Roosevelt Road.

Regarding recent gangland killings in the Chicago

area, specifically those of NORTON POLSKY, 1865 South

Springfield Avenue, "LITTLE SNEEZE" FRIEDMAN, Midwest

Athletic Club, and HARRY "The Horse" KROTISH, 1500 block

of south st. Louis Avenue, PATRiCK stated that in his

opinion, all three of these individuals had been killed

because, he heard, they were engaged in robberies of handbooks

and gambling houses.

He stated that none of their activities

took place in the Roosevelt Road area. He stated he considered

himself a close personal friend of all of the above individuals,

however, he disclaimed any definite knowledge as to what

their activities were prior to the time they were killed.

- 58 -

NW 45904 DocId:32328451 Page 9

---

## Page 10

CG 92-374'

On March 10, 1958, CG T-24 advised that a

WILLIAM DRURY, former

was one of the individuals responsible for DRURY's murder.

In a "Daily News" article dated January 5,

1953, concerning the slaying of MILTON GLICKMAN whose

was found in the trunk of his car on January 14,

1953, It was stated that the police were seeking LEONARI

PATRICK, reputed "syndicate" boss of the West Side for

questioning concerning the slaying. PATRICK was sought

because of an unlisted telephone number of a man described

as PATRICK's first lieutenant, one HERSHEY (HARRY) KOVIN,

was found on GLICKMAN's body.

During November, 1955, CG T-13 advised that

LENNY PATRICK and DAVE YARAS were hired gunmen and killers

for the Chicago underworld group.

Miscellaneous

On December 10, 1958, CG T-16 advised that

LENNY PATRICK controls the gambling for the Chicago mob

in the West Roosevelt Road area and was not in the good

graces of other Chicago hoodlums.

According

; to CG T-16,

the reason for this is that PATRICK has been muscling in

on legitimate businessmen and bringing heat on the Chicago

mob thereby.

The Chicago Crime Commission reported in a

memorandum of March 26, 1947, information reflecting that

be in Minneapolis, Minnesota,

a Twin-Cities hoodlum.

had been with DOYLE at his place of business but had left

before Chicago police authorities reached town to apprehend

them.

- 59 •

00012-11053

NW 45904 DocId:32328451 Page 10

---

## Page 11

CG 92-374

VLI: fes

CG T-10 stated that these "district men" are required to

pay a certain sum of money each month to GIANCANA, who in turn,

turns over a certain sum to ACCARDO.

The district men are allowed

rather wide latitude in the means they exercise to raise this

money and any money they make in excess of the amount payable to

GIANCANA may be counted as their profit.

The informant pointed out

these payments must be made promptly and in casband failure to meet

these obligations are generally deemed to

be a/fatal mistake.

the patta can a protoco at or boatin pace do

informant noted the fact that gambling is protected from polic

ction and this inevitably gives rise to other criminal activiti

such as prostitution, narcotics, and fencing. The informant pointed

out that if the police are compromised in one activity there

is a

certain reluctance to act in another/direction.

The informant

stated that the district man is under considerable compulsion to

raise a certain amount of money each month, and if gambling revenues

are uncertain or inadequate he will turn to any means available.

On February

25, 1958, /CG T-ll advised SA RAYMOND J:

DRIsCOLL, in answer to the question as to the existence and identity

of a syndicate, was most emphatic that a syndicate exists and total

members might number as high as twenty-live.

CG T-1] doubted that

there was anyone man in charge.'

he explained that certain men in

various levels of power exist in certain areas of Chicago. For

example, LENNY PATRICK and DAVE YARAS of Jewish parentage control

the Roosevelt Avenue area, and their headquarters is at Roosevelt

and Independence Boulevard

Gambling

Bookmaking

On February 26, 1958, CG T-12 advised SA HAROLD D. SELL

that he worked for LENNY

PATRICK as an operator in a 50-50 book in

1948 and 1949.

This book was

operated in a barber shop at 330 West

Roosevelt and

his payments were made to LENNY PATRICK at the New

Lawndale Restaurant in that neighborhood. CG T-12 states that at

that time PATRICK was in control of the New Lawndale Restaurant and

there was a full-scale hard card book being operated there.

According to CG T-12, PATRICK had the area from kedzie to Cicero and

from Madison south to approximately 18th Street.

No one could open

a book or take on any bets unless he had the Ok of PATRICK.

At-

that time PATRICK's lieutenants were YARAS and BLOCK.

- 32

-

d0221a255

NW 45904 DocId:32328451 Page 11

---

## Page 12

CG 92-374

Prostitution

the complete operations of the call system run by D. WHEELER

and hersif.

She stated that they had forced them into

obtaining more and more girls for prostitution.

She

stated that LENNY PATRICK visited them on various

occasions demanding that they expand their operation or they

vould get into serzous trouble.

CG T-23 stated her last

contact with PATRICK was in 1953.

She stated that when she and WHEELER were arrested

by the FBI, PATRICK threatened to kidnap and kill her son

if she revealed any information regarding the operations of

the call business.

She further advised that on one occasion,

PATRICK told her she would get the same treatment that he

had given GROSs if she gave him any trouble.

CG T-23 stated

that GROSS was a Chicago politician who was killed in gang-

land manner approximately five years ago.

CG T-23

advised that PATRICK is very friendly with

(FNU) NOODLEMAN who formerly ran a currency exchange on

Rush Street and handled a considerable amount of racketeer

money.

She stated that when she and WHEELER were operating,

they

deposited all the checks through NOODLEMAN. (IRVING NUDLEMAN)

Suspect In Gangland Slayings

It was reported to the Chicago Office in 1946,

exact date unknown, by an unknown source, that DAVE YARAS

and LEONARD PATRICK are reported to be the "torpedoes" or the

killers for the 'syndicate."

It was reported to the Chicago Office in 1946,

exact date unknown, by an unknown source,

that PATRICK

may have had a part in the killing of WILLIE TARSCH and

"ZUKIE/the Bookie" ZUCKERMAN, West Roosevelt Road gamblers

who were killed in gangland style several years ago by

unknown persons.

55

NW 45904 DocId:32328451 Page 12

---

## Page 13

CG 92-374.

In 1934, LEONARD PATRICK was at a crap game

operated by POLSKY and CRATISH, and PATRICK tOLa POLSKY

that he wanted a cut from this

An argument followed,

and PATRICK seized a broken milk bottle and thrusted the

jagged edge into the face of one of POLSKY's men and cut

him badly. POLSKY then said that he would get even with

PATRICK for this incident. Sometime later, POLSKY, CRATISH

and ZUCKIE, ZUKERMAN were machine gunned to

for robbing, handbooks; however, it was generally known in

the

neighborhood, that LEONARD PATRICK was responsible

for these killings due to his feud with POLSKY.

According to CG I-14, sometime later, JAMES

RAGEN, a racing wire service operator, was slain.

According to the newspapers and the opinion of others in

the 24th Ward, it was strongly suspected that LEONARD PATRICK

and DAVE YARAS were responsible for this killing.

In October,, 1941

, Captain CONNELLY an

Lieutenant DRURY, suspended police officers, stated that

it was alleged that the, samerpersons, PATRICK, BLOCK and

YARAS, were responsible for the shooting of "BUGSY SIEGEL",

a West Coast racketeer with reported connections in the

alleged Chicago crime syndicate, because of the modus

operandi used in the shooting of SIEGEL.

SIEGEL was in

the California residenee of VIRGINIA HILL, a girlfriend

of his.

On September 10, 1948, LEONARD? PATRICK was

interviewed in connection

with an investigation by the Chicago

Office at which time he stated that he resided at 4248

West Congress Street, Chicago, and that he, with his bother,

JACK PATRICK, operated the Lawndale Restaurant at 3714

West Roosevelt Road.

Regarding recent gangland killings in the Chicago

area, specifically those of NORTON POLSKY, 1865 south

Springfield Avenue, "LITTLE SNEEZE" FRIEDMAN, Midwest

and

of South St. Louis Avenue, PATRICK stated that in his

opinion, all three of these individuals had been killed

because, he heard, they were engaged in robberies of handbooks

and gambling houses.

He stated that none of their activities

took place in the Roosevelt Road area. He stated he considered

himself a close personal friend of all of the above individuals,

however, he disclaimed any definite knowledge as to what

their activities were prior to the time they were killed.

5 8

40 pros?

NW 45904 DocId:32328451 Page 13

---

## Page 14

CG 92-374

On March 10, 1958, CG T-24 advised that a

WILLIAM DRURY, former

Chicago Police Lieutenant, who

was killed in gangland style on September 22, 1952, was

a client of CG T-24.

Again CG T-24 stated LEONARD PATRICK

was one of the individuals responsible for DRURY's murder.

In

a WDaily News" article dated January 5,

1953, concerning the slaying of MILTON GLICKMAN whoSe

body was found in the trunk of his car on January 14,

were seeking LEONARD

PATRICK, reputed syndicate boss of the West Side for

questioning concerning the slaying. PATRICK was sought

because of an unlisted teephone number of a man described

as PATRICK's first lieutenant, one HERSHEY (HARRY) KOVIN,

was found on GLICKMAN's body

During November

1955, CG T-13 advised that

LENNY PATRICK and DAVE YARAS were hired gunmen and killers

for the Chicago 'syndicate."

Miscellaneous

On December 10, 1958,

CG T-16 advised that

LENNY PATRICK controls the gambling for the syndicate

in the West Roosevelt Road area and was not in the good

graces of other syndicate hoodlums. According to CG T-16,

the reason for this is that PATRICK has been muscling in

on legitimate businessmen and bringing heat on the"syndicate

thereby•

The Chicago Crime Commission reported in a

memorandum of March 26, 1947, information reflecting that

DAVID YARAS and LENNY PATRICK, sought by the police, might

be in Minneapolis, Minnesota, in the company of a LARRY DOYLE,

a Twin-Cities hoodlum. It was learned that both these persons

had been with DOYLE at his place of

, business but had left

before Chicago police authorities rèached town to apprehend

them.

5 9

HH 45904 DocId:32328451 Page 14

---

