# docid-32310729

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10307-10033

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-637

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/21/1962

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

• DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, BUSS ASSOC, AKA, EMP, GANGI AND SLAYING

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32310729

301

Page 1

---

## Page 2

4-41• (Rey: 6-2-61)

DECODED

COPY

• Radio

DEFERRED

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

hLKEM IS EM

IMED

DATE 4-20 84 B/SPSE 6/ca Teletype

2-21-62

4:52 AM:

RUL

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi

Collahon

Conrad

DeLod

Evans

(alone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter.

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy:.

TO

DIRECTOR AND SAC, MIAMI

FROM SAC, CHICAGO

210433

SAMUEL M

GIANCANA, AKA, ARO DAILY SUMMARY.

RE PROPOSEI

MEETING OF HOODLUMS, MIAMI, FLORIDA, FEBRUARY 1 THROUGH 9,

1962.

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONTAINED IN CHiCAGO FILES

RE ESPOSITO AS FOLLOWS: FRANK S. ESPOSITO, AKA FRANKIE XO

AGE: 62, IS PRESIDENT OF DISTRICT COUNCIL OF CONSTRUCTION AND

GENERAL LABORERS. BOSSES 35,000 MEN IN 18 LOCALS OF THE

INTERNATIONAL HOD CARRIERS, BUILDING AND COMMON CARRIERS

UNION• ANONYMOUS LETTER RECEIVED CHICAGO OFFICE AUGUST 1961,

CONTAINED INFORMATION WHICH SUBSEQUENT INVESTIGATION PROVED

RELIABLE, IN PART, STATED JOHN MATTASSA, FORMER CHICAGO

POLICEMAN AND CURRENT BODYGUARD AND CHAUFFEUR OF GIANCANA, ON

PAYROLL OF ESPOSITO, IN ADDITION TO PHIL ALDERISIO, JOEY O'BRIEN,

AND WILLIE DADDANO, ALL PROMINENT CHICAGO HOODLUMS AND

LIEUTENANTS OF GIANCANA.: INVESTIGATION OF LOUIS BRIATTA, MAY

1961, REFLECTED BRIATTA MADE LONG DISTANCE: CALL TO ESPOSITO

MARCH 19, 1961, AT HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA, RESIDENCE TELEPHONE

VA 3-6320. BRIATTA IS LIEUTENANT OF CHICAGO TOP HOODLUM, GUS

ALEX, AND REPORTEDLY MAKES ALL HANDBOOK COLLECTIONS FOR ALEX

IN FIRST WARD (LOOP AREA) • "CHICAGO TRIBUNE" REPORTED

SEPTEMBER 1960, ESPOSITO SCHEDULED-FOR "HEART-TO-HEART TALK"

WITH HIS LIEUTENANT, AL PILOTTO, BECAUSE PILOTTO NAMED BY

SOUTH SUBURBAN BEER DISTRIBUTOR IN ACCARDO TAX TRIAL:

AS

ASSISTANT TO TONY ACCARDO SELLING BEER IN CALUMET CITY AND

CHICAGO HEIGHTS, ILLINOIS. PILOTTO DESCRIBED AS HEAD OF

REGE 14

92-3111-631

9 FEB 26

NAR 2 1362,

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is 8u

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

a th

Bu tably

DocId: 32310729 Page 2

---

## Page 3

4-41-{PRer 6-2-611

DECODED COPY

• Radio

Teletype

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Tigray -

PAGE 2 FROM CHICAGO

210433

LOCAL 5, CHICAGO, FOR ESPOSITO AND FORMER BODYGUARD FOR SOUTH

SUBURBAN

SYNDICATE CHIEF, FRANK LA PORTE, GERALD J. COVELLI,

WHILE UNDER INDICIVENT FOR ITSMY VIOLATION, HOUSTON, AUGUST

1959, CLAIMED ESPOSITO ALLIED WITH CHICAGO "OUTFIT." ONCE

REQUESTED COVELLI TO ARRANGE PROPERTY PURCHASE IN CHICAGO

FOR WHICH TREMENDOUS: PROFIT PLANNED BY ESPOSITO AFTER FEDERAL

LOAN OBTAINED TO PUT UP BUILDING. PROFIT WOULD DEPEND ON

INFLATED MATERIAL, PRICES AND KICKBACKS. HOWEVER, PLAN

FAILED TO MATERIALIZE. INFORMATION FURNISHED BY CG 5680-0

DECEMBER 1:947, REVEALED ESPOSITO IN TELE-PHONIC CONTACT

WITH PAUL DE LUCIA, A PROMINENT CHICAGO HOODLUM NOW UNDER

DEPORTATION PROCEEDINGS AT CHICAGO. ALTHOUGH ABOVE INFORMA-

TION ILLUSTRATES ESPOSITO'S AFFILIATION WITH HOODLUM INTEREST,

APPARENT REASON FOR PROPOSED GANGLAND SLAYING NOT EVIDENT TO

CHICAGO OFFICE. INVESTIGATION IN THIS REGARD CONTINUED BY

CHICAGO OFFICE AND BUREAU AND MIAMI WILL BE ADVISED. GLADYS

EBLE, CHICAGO PCI, OBSERVED GIANCANA IN FRONT OF ARMORY

LOUNGE THIS AFTERNOON, WALKING IN EASTERLY DIRECTION TO PINK

CLOCK, ANOTHER HOODLUM HANGOUT. CG 6486-0* REPORTS NO

ACTIVITY TODAY. GIANCANA ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED:

6:118 AM.

RN

1531

• 1 dista

i the sell gene oo prote in the been rage rape besties

e disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl

DocId: 32310729

Page 3

---

