JEK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90044-10139
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR SEE TITLE
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LA
TO: HQ
TITLE: — [Restricted]
DATE: — 01/18/1962
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
FRANK MATULA
[Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/17/1998.
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : AT

v9.1
Docld:32326290 Page 1

22


= FILIPOFF. Source resides in the Monterey Park, California

Bill Ei tote Maven,
Al
wy

FD-36 (He: +13-56)

:
Z LA pantie eb
FBI. :
bate: 1/18/62 gist fly)

ate: 1/1 Ve eG My
PLAIN “ és fo i
Ee (Type in plain text or code) ¥ 1 |
A Ga. 4 | |
Via __ AIRTEL naires AIR MAIL - poL i

; E 1

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

4 FROM ‘@

of SUBJECT: LA 4381-PC aul Stull CONTAINED
“COOTER” : Is IFIED,
¥ waCIEAE A ; ee 19
re ) FD
: Above captioned source is identical. with JOHN W.

area and is personally contacted through telephone number
722-4897, wherein plans are made for Uaihateeemeae meeting with

hin.

FILIPOFF is a former eee official and has in
the past, and.it is believed will be in the future, ina
position to furnish intelligence information cdncerning
JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA, NATE STEIN and ANTHONY DORIA, It is
believed that this source has all. the. qualities necessary
to meet the requirements of the Top Echelon Criminal Informant
Program. This source will be contacted exclusively by SAs
JOSEPH A, ARWINE and ALBERT A, HUSTEDT.

: It is noted that this source has furnished information
which has been furnished to the Bureau in the case | entitled,
a beriaeaaemee FRANK cache dr. et al LMRA-IM," :

- Bureau (RM) :
2 - Los Angel : =
s Angeles & 13f- 296.3

FE

eat

qe
oy “D 13 JAN 22 1962
i tsy juss j —
Le
I
Sent M = Per |
j

| Docla: 32326290 Page 2


LA 137-2617

Full background information concerning this source
has not yet been obtained and the Bureau is requested to
Sutel permission for further interviews.

This source has not been contacted with enough
regularity to establish his reliability, and is referred to
herein as an informant merely to differentiate the source
of the information from the subject matter.

It is requested that caution be exercised in the
dissemination of some of the information contained herein
as the nature of this information is attributable wholly
to this source.

Dissemination of the information contained herein
will be made under the appropriate case captions and furnished
to interested offices and the Bureau.

Informant's source of information is noshesieaerocn,
Secretary Treasurer of -Local-206 Portland. This source is the.

—yndividual attending meeting at San Diego pn 1/22/62.

-2-

QQHAQE NETS

'| DocId: 32326290 Page 3

eee


ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN 1S UNCLASSIFIED
patella! mc
WESTERN CONFERENCE PENSION ee
‘ FUND AND CENTRAL STATE
PERSION FUND OF TEAMSTERS

UNION.

On January 17, 1962, LA 4381-PC advised that a source
of his who is a member of the western Council of Teamsters,
advised informant that on January 22, 1962, JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA
will be in San Diego, California, for a meeting with both the
employers and members of the Western Conference to determine
disposition of the Western Conference Pension Fund,

eat le > Ye
According to snrormant, he conference will be attended
by 14 employers and 14 membe ef/the Joint Council. President

of the Joint Council ls WACK AND, whe wasia-for he International
A HL: Seattle ‘oO owner vers qpuckine
‘employsrs.. Additiondl. gounc :

ag an organizer. HENRY

Company, is chairman for th A tionds

members who will attend are GEORG! oO ALetat-27i} secretary
ana T surer, Seattle; JAC
JO! re a

a OA
TULA. a

peal i

remit ees SMR? Lid, * Latif

Lalife. According to Wiformant, each/ ofthe members of the

i voint Council has been contacted by JAI ARDING, who is ta
reported to.be hatchet man on the We * HOFFA, and

HARDING has advised each of the members that they are to vote

_ for the consolidation of each of the two pension funds. RDING,
who is from Portland, is taking over the duties of BY NTAINE,

|
|

7 hocal-206, Portlandiorege)
Tap eI “ETWAR OL

who is presently with Local 208 of Los Angeles. HA } 3 i ff
purported to have told members of the Joint Council that ak: aa
if,

if they do not vote for this merger, that International wil?
send an auditor to each of the locals and will be able to fire

them, : Be

Informant further pointed out source told him that
he had received a call from JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA and HOFFA told
him "what are you doing by opposing me on this merger."* Source
reportedly told him that he was not opposing but was voting for

w

| DocId: 32326290 Page 4
