# docid-32289117

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10200-10393

RECORD_SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-165503-36

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG. MX

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/26/1967

PAGES: 34

SUBJECT: FS, ASSOC, CONSPR, BOMB, CUBAN SHIP, MX PORT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

03/17/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO, LHM

DocId: 32289117 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRETI

Mr. J. Walter Yeagley

Assistant Attorney General ar

Director, FBI

August 7, 1967

1 - Mr. Wannall

1

- Mr. Nasca

FRANG ANGELO TORIN, and others

REPORTED PLANS TO BLOW UP CUBAN SMIL

IN MEXICAN PORT, POSSIBLY VERACRUZ

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUBA

CLASSIPED AND

EXTENDED BY SO 3 TEK/KH|CA)

214.29

REASON FU

-d+3

FCIM, M, V

DATE OF ME!

DECLASSIFICATION

8119)

TUHUURTATNED

HEREIN IS URCRASSEFTED

EXONE T ANERE SHOWN:

Reference is made to our previous communications

in the captioned matter terminating with our communication

of July 10, 1967.

1967, at Washington,

Attached 1D. Coy of a senorandu dated July 26,

Single coptes of the 12 photographs

and one copy of the

telegraphic money order,

which are referred

to in the menorandun, are also attached. (L

The confidential source abroad mentioned in the

attached menorandum advised, in addition, that the attached

material cannot be used as evidence.

The source pointed out,

call at the

the attached memorandom could be produced in cours upon come

Hotel Mante in Mexico which is also nentioned in

MAILED 9

States Government to the Mexiean Government. The source

plotion of the proper diplomatie representation by the thalty

AND ALBED OFFICES.

ADUTCEN

SIXE

furpished the attached material so that the United States

DAR.

16% lGevernment would know what evidence could be made available

COMMI If the Mexican Government accedes to a request to produce it.

Our

investigation in this matter

is continuing

113°

per to a

results will be made

105-165503

-36

Classified y

Declassity. on

ЖАР /AHR

Declassity ost BaT

5/5/5);

Classified by.

Exempt from

GD

at prae

SEEMOTE Declassilic

PAGE TW

1

1

- Miami (105-12890)

- Mexico

City

(105-6046)

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit

VIN: JaS

4(8) 1967

*MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

QROUS

from automatic

Jowngray

long and

declassifloation

SECRET!

DocId: 32289117

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRETI

Mr. J. Walter Yeagley

Sun dont lal

NOTE:

Betsin this case

were involved in unsuccessful

anti-Castro plot to blow up ship in Mexico in April, 196%•

Based on information we developed, Mexican authorities located

explosives which had been buried in Mexico by some

of those

involved prior to their return to United States, (d

Investigation is being conducted at specific request

of Department which has indicated there are possible violations

of Title 18, Section 956 (Conspiracy to injure property of a

foreign government) and Title 22, Section 1934 (Uilicensed

exportation of munitions).

Information being transmitted to Department is detailed

report of discovery of explosives by Mexican authorities together

with appropriate photographs. In addition, Mexican authorities

were able to obtain copy of money order originatingin Miami,

phoco 02 полоу от.

Florida, addressed to one of those involved in Mexico, as well

as record of telephone call made by one of subjects in Mexico

to individual in Miami.

Classified "Confidential," since unauthorized disclosure

could be prejudicial to national defense interests by compromising

source of continuing value.

→2 -

cpa6 9654165503-360

SECRETI

DocId: 32289117

Page

---

## Page 4

12 pilotor

Copy to State (pliaisa/cIA/customs

by routing slip for

Pinfo

• action

date

-9-1-67

AIRTEL

1174 Spa-Mu

Classied by

Declassify on: 0AK

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-165503)

praise, trico ars 12055046) e

RE:

SECRETI

DATE:

7/26/67

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION T0054%6

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

IN THIS DOCUMEN TR 5

TB RACKETS

8-5-96

GMB

pg. 2

HEREDA IS UNCHASSIFTED

EXCEPT FNESE

OTHERWISE

5

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI,

aka; ET AL

REPORTED PLANS TO BLOW UP

CUBAN SHIP

TS - CURAT PURL, POSSIBLE VERACRUZCLASSIFIED ASHO

NM - CUBA

i lead

Classified by cA

REASON

Declassify on: GADR

13/16/83

#SION

ENCLOSURES:

DATE OF REVIEW

DECLASSIFICATION

Enclosed are 13 copies of letterhead memorandum

dated and captioned as above.

AGENC

REFERENCE:

OPRIATE

AND

ETD SOFICES

KING

ADVIS

2209

outiting

-by

Miami Airtel dated 7/1/67

Mexico City airtel dated 7/6/67

Bureau airtel dated 7/20/67

ADMINISTRATIVE:

FERNANDO GUTTERREL BARRIOS, Director, Mexican

Federal security Police (DES), has advised that, while the

material he has furnished this office may be prepared for

dissemination with the originating source protected, this

material may not be used as evidence.. However, the original

copy of the Mexican Army Ord mance report, properly certified,

the original photographs, the telegraphic money order and the

record of longdistance telephone call at the Hotel Mante

5-1-C

can be produced in court upon completion of the correct diplo-

matic representations by the United States government to the

government of Mexico.

In that sense, the material presently

furnished by DFS is for Andormation only, in order that the

United states government will know what evidence can be made I

available 1f

Mex1bag/governmer

medes to a request to o

produce 1t.

6 - Bureau

(Enc1. 13) DOEYALE

X-1149

6550336

(2 - Miami, 105-120904C,0

1 - Mexico City

RJG : gmh

LET CHAG

(7)

"Mane

39416-16-11

C/mEX. cuFo. mm

Remercissel

neate Cety Classified by h

7126169644 end wind dEen Trom gos Cateres

eial and

nels of Dacia daton erican

DocId: 32289117

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Cont

MEX 105-6046

SEN

It is noted that the telephone number in Miami

called by FIORINI, referred to in enclosed LHM, appears

to lack one digit

as it was recorded.

SOURCE:

The confidential source abroad is FERNANDO GUTIERREZ,

BARRIOS, Director of DFS (by request).

(g)

CLASSIFICATION:

Enclosed LHM is classified CONE

Leot

the confidential source.

NOTAL to protect

LEAD:

MEXICO CITY OFFICE

AT MEXICO, D.F..

will follow and report any developments in this

matter.

COPIES:

merican ambassy and the clA station at Mexico,

SUGGESTION FOR BUREAU:

The bureau may wish to pass copies of the photographs

mentioned in enclosed LHM to the Department and other interested

agencies. (5)4

1T3330

SECRETI

Confidential

105-165503-36

DooId:32289117

Page 5

---

## Page 6

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CONFE

NTIAL

UNITÊD STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Tonerrera?

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

July 26, 1967

SECRET

SECRET

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI,

also known as Frank Anthony Sturgis;

RONALD EDWARD THOMPSON;

DONALD FRANCIS ROCHE,

also known as John Henry Schulte;

Dr. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA;

JOSE ANTONIO MULET GONZALEZ,

also known as "Guajiro";

ALFREDO C. FUENTE;

Reported Plans

to Blow Up Cuban Ship

ADVISTO

ris,

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

This document contains netter

recommendeten: F3r C9

C:

4-11-94

wassihea

Declassily on: QAS8: FK

it and its contents ero coito me

distributed outside your agercy.

CLASSIEIED AND

EXTENDED BY SP3TERleHleAS.2629

REASON FO

FCIM, Il, 1-2

DATE OF RE

DECLASSIFICATION.

on July 5, 190%, a confidential source abroad made

available a report dated May 8, 1967, prepared by the Mexican

Army,

Department of Military Industry, which 1s

set forth

verbatim as follows (translation from

Spanish):

Department of Military Industry

subject: Report on Assignment

Tecamachalco, Mexico City, May 8, 1967

Lucine,

+ 2n

EXOCT WORE SHOWI

OLELVISE

(S)

1'0:

Commanding General of the D.E.M. Brigade

Chief of the Department of Military Industry

SECKET

Classified by 214.0

Er's Categor

Exempt fre

Date of Pectassification.

Classified by.

Declassify on:

Ground.

Excluded fr

downgrading

and

m, automatic

classification

10.5-.

65503

-36

ENCLOSURE

bond faestial SECRET

DocId:32289117

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRETI

Conf

dentia!

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

Permit me to inform you on the results of

the assignment given to me and Captain Antonio Olmos

Del Moral at Cludad Mante, Tamaulipas Plaza, May 2, 1967•(5)

I. Background Information. (5)

As is already known, the Secretary of the

or some thie D

Government, through the (Mexican) Federal Security

Police (D.F.S.), requested the cooperation of the technical

personnel of this Department in

and destruction of some "bombs," detonators and othfying

devices which, according to information obtained by the

D.F.S., had been brought into the country and buried at

a spot near the Mante-C. Victoria road, between kilometers

643 and 644. (5)

I1. Location of the zone and Spot Where the

explosives were round.(s)

As a result of the above request, the under-

On the same day, at 8:00 A.M., we went to the

Indicated spot, between kilometers 643 and 644, for the

purpose of determining the Indicated zone where, according

to the information, was located the spot where the

explosives had been buried. (S)

At the end of four hours, we succeeded in

finding the exact spot where the explosives had been

buried, In a promontory bordering the left side of the

road and approximately 15 meters from the road, between

kilometers 642 and 643.

The location is shown on

Photographs No. 1 and 2.(S)

III. Location of the Explosives. (S)

In the above-mentioned area, in a zone no(s)

2

Fobsidential SECRET 105-165503-36

DocId: 32289117 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET!

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Condentiat

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

larger than 25 meters, we unearthed the following: (5)

1) A "bomb" or a double explosive charge,

wrapped in sections of a tire inner tube

and fastened

by adhesive tape. Photographs 3 and 4. (S)

2) Four magnets, consisting of coiled

spools especially positioned, In pairs, to fasten each

of the explosive charges to metallic parts. Photographs

5 and 6.

the magnets, like the charges, were found

wrapped

sections of an inner tube. (S)

The detonators for the explosive charges.

These were

found wrapped in a plastic bag. Photograph

No. 7.(5)

The remnants of an explosive charge.

It is thought that farmers in the area accidentally

discovered it and, in attempting to see its

contents,

destroyed It completely. Photograph No. 8.(S)

of these remnants, the following were recovered

separately: (S)

a) The explosive material. (s)

b) Fragments of a container, a blue plastic

tape, labels from the factory which manufactured the

explosive, remains of newspapers, pieces of plywood

and pieces

of a mesh, plastic cloth. Photograph No. 9.(S)

IV. Identification of the Explosive Material.

Visual Examination. (s)

Once all the items in the area had been

unearthed, we proceeded to examine them in detail in

order to attempt to identify them and ascertain as to

what condition they were in so as

to destroy them,

should conditions warrant 1t.(S)

3

idential

SECRET

': +05-165503-36

DocId: 32289117 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

Confi

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

The Explosive Charge - Rectangular in

shape with the following approximate dimensions: 30 x 20

x 7 centimeters.

The charge consists of a block of

explosive covered with a solid, putty-like plastic

material, the entire surface of which is covered with

black insulation tape.

At one of its edges, 2 plugs

for an Iron pipe of 3/4 inch diameter were found.

These

are fastened separately by a screw to lengths of galvanized

Iron pipe of the same diameter and approximately 15

centimeters long.

The pipes are located inside the

explosive charge and serve as a lodging for the detonators.

Two metallic rods of 7 millimeters in diameter and 10

centimeters long extend along the longitudinal axis of

the charge.

They nave screws at the ends which serve

to fasten them to the spools.(s

The explosive inside is white in color and

plastic-like.

Its characteristics and potency are unknown.

It will be necessary to conduct analyses to determine

Its class and type. (5)

ascertained that the explosive charge

was not assembled and

ready for detonation, since it did

not contain the proper elements for starting, propagating

and amplifying the detonation. PHoToGRApH NO. 101

b) Spools-magnets - There are four of them,

and they consist of

spools of approximately 3 x 2x1

inches, containing at their ends two metallic plates

fastened by bolts.

Each of these plates has a bore hole

Into which the small rods used to hold the charge are

placed.

On the side opposite that containing the bore

there is a metallic plate whose function is to

serve as the surface which is connected by the magnet

to any metallic surface. Photograph No. 11 (S)

Detonators - The detonators are of the

percussion type and apparently are activated by an

electric current.

They have an approximate length(s)

4

edentin: SECRET

: 105-165503-36

DocId: 32289117

Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

tigentlal

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

of 25 centimeters and a diameter of 7 to 8 millimeters. (5)

They are composed of a percussion mechanism,

a safety and an explosive charge. Photograph No. 12•(51

Because of the condition in which they were

found and because they were found to be safe for handling

and transportation, they were not destroyed. (S)

V.

Transportation of the Explosives and Their

Delivery to the D.F.S.(S)

The explosives (complete charge and recovered

remnants), detonators and magnets, perfectly wrapped

and packed, were brought to this

city on the afternoon

of the 4th and were handed over to the Federa security

magazine at the explosives plant, after having first

been examined by the Director of

the D.F.S. . The explosives

are now at the disposal of the proper authorities (s)

Attached herewith are 12 photographs for

Information purposes. (S)

(5)

Respectfully,

Effective Suffrage, No Re-election

/s/ illegible

Jose Maria Navarro barquero

(259458)

On July 5, 1967, the confidential source abroad also

made available a copy of a telegraphic money order originating

currency, addressed to FRANK

Florida, in the amount of 2498 pesos ($200 U.s.

FOURGIS

Hotel Mante, Ciudad

Mante,

Tamaulipas, dated April

13, 1907. On the reverse side

MEXICO

5

Goafidantial

SECRET

105-165503-36

DocId: 32289117

Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

EcKt

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

ntiat

appears the signature of FRANk FOURGIS in endorsement, receiving

the full amount on that date. (Sy

On July 22, 1967, the above source advised that

Investigation at the

Mante In Cludad Mante, Tamaulipas,

revealed a record of a long distance telephone call placed from

the hotel to ALFREDO FUENTES In Maimi, Florida, telephone

79 71 67, on April 12, 1967.

The call was placed by subject

FIORINI, according to the source.

(8)

6*

seidentini

SECRET!

105-165503-36

DocId: 32289117

Page 11

---

## Page 12

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

4-11:44 506 mm/1

Crasslos

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

SECRET!

trat

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

July 26, 1967

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI,

also known as Frank Anthony Sturgis;

RONALD EDWARD THOMPSON;

DONALD FRANCIS ROCHE,

also known as John Henry Schulte;

Dr. ORLANDO BOSCH 'AVILA;

JOSE ANTONIO MULET GONZALEZ,

also. known a's

"Guajiro";

ALFREDO C. FUENTE;

Reported Plans

Blow Up Cuban Ship

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

This document contains neither

CLASSIFIED AND

reement tan nor contrians of EXTENDED BY SPSTEKTEHICA) 2/1629

the Fal Ni: to me ery ef

REASON FORT

ho to call panel do fog car FCIM; ll 1-3

it and 10 come is are

naite te

DATE T

ViCt FON

dot hued outside your agency.

DECLASSIFICATION

01300

3786192

verbatim as follows (translation from Spanish):

Department of Military Industry

Subject: Report on Assignment

Tecamachalco, Mexico City, May 8, 1967

1'0:

Commanding General of the D.E.M. Brigade

Chief of the Department

of Military Industry

•120

Classified by

Declassify on:/DADR4/16/53

Gro

Excluded fr

downgrading and

BACK & WHENE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SECRETI

I

automatic

declassification

Classifled by

2040

Exempt from

GDS

Cameron,

Date of picass

Vication Indefinate

3+5

105-165503-

36

DocId: 32289117 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET!

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

Permit me to Inform you on the results of

the assignment given to me and Captain Antonio Olmos

Del Moral at Cludad Mante, Tamaulipas Plaza, May 2, 1967.

I. Background Information. (S)

As is already known, the Secretary of the

Government, through the (Mexican) Federal Security

Police (D.F.S.), requested the cooperation of the technical

cute tense?

personnel of this Department in

and destruction of some "bombs," detonators and other ng

devices which, according to information obtained by the

D.F.S., had been brought into the country and buried at

a spot near the Mante-C. Victoria road, between kilometers

643 and 644. (5)

II. Location of the Zone and Spot Where the

Explosives Were Found. (S)

As a result of the above request, the under-

On the same day,

at 8:00 A.M., we went to the

indicated spot, between kilometers 643 and 644, for the

purpose of determining the indicated zone where, according

to the information, was located the spot where the

explosives had been buried. (S)

At the end of four hours, we succeeded in

finding the exact spot where the explosives had been

burled, in a promontory bordering the left side of the

road and approximately 15 meters from

the road, between

kilometers 642 and 643.

The location is shown on

Photographs No. I and 2(5)

III. Location of the Explosives (5)

In the above-mentioned area, In a zone no (§)

2

SECRETI

silat

105-165503-36

DocId: 32289117 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Confidential

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

SECRET

larger than 25 meters, we unearthed the following: (S)

1) A "bomb" or a double explosive charge,

wrapped in sections of a

and fastened

2) Four magnets, consisting of coiled

spools especially positioned, in pairs, to fasten each

of the explosive charges to metallic parts. Photographs

5 and 6.

The magnets, like the charges, were found

wrapped

In sections of an inner tube. (5)

The detonators for the explosive charges.

These were

No. 7•(5)

found wrapped in a plastic bag. Photograph

The remnants of an explosive charge.

It is thought that farmers in the area accidentally

discovered it and, in attempting to see its contents,

destroyed it completely. Photograph No. 8. (S)

separately: (S)

Of these remnants, the following were recovered

a) The explosive material.(S)

b) Fragments of a container, a blue plastic

tape, labels from the factory which manufactured the

explosive, remains of newspapers, pieces of plywood

and pieces

of a mesh, plastic cloth. Photograph No. 9.51

IV.

Identification of the Explosive Material.

Visual Examination. (S)

Once all the items in the area had been

unearthed, we proceeded to examine them in detail in

order to attempt to Identify them and ascertain as to

what condition they were in so as to destroy them,

shuuld conditions warrant 1t.(5)

3

SECRET!

idential

105-165583-36

DocId: 32289117 Page 14

---

## Page 15

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

dential

SECRET

a) The Explosive Charge - Rectangular in

shape with the following approximate dimensions: 30 x 20

x 7 centimeters.

The charge consists of a block of

explosive covered with a solid, putty-like plastic

material, the entire surface of which 1s covered with

black insulation tape.

At one of its edges, 2 plugs

for an Iron pipe of 3/4 inch diameter were found.

are fastened separately by a screw to lengths of galvanized

Iron pipe of the same diameter and approximately 15

centimeters long.

The pipes are located inside the

explosive charge and serve as a lodging for the detonators.

Iwo metallic rods of 7 millimeters in diameter and 10

centimeters long extend along the longitudinal axis of

the charge.

They have screws at the ends which serve

to fasten them to the spools. (Sl

The explosive inside 1s white in color and

plastic-like.

Its characteristics and potency are unknown.

It will be necessary to conduct analyses to determine

its class ana type. 5)

It was ascertained that the explosive charge

was not assembled and ready for detonation, since it did

not contain the proper elements for starting, propagating

and amplifying the detonation. Photograph No. 10 (S)

b) Spools-magnets - There are four of them,

and they consist of spools of approximately 3 x 2x1

Inches,

containing at their ends two metallic plates

fastened by bolts.

Each of these plates has a bore hole

into which the small rods used to hold the charge are

placed.

the side opposite that containing the bore

hole,

there 1s a metallic plate whose function 1s to

serve as the surface which is connected by the magnet

to any metallic surface. Photograph No. 11. (5)

Detonators - The detonators are of the

percussion type and apparently are activated by an

electric current.

They have an approximate lengths)

SECRET!

4

Considers lat

105-165-503-35

DocId: 32289117

Page 15

---

## Page 16

SECRET

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

of 25 centimeters and a diameter of 7 to 8 millimeters. (S)

They are composed of a percussion mechanism,

a safety and an explosive charge. Photograph No. 12. (5)

Because of the condition in which they were

found and because they were found to be safe for handling

and transportation, they were not destroyed. (S)

V. Transportation of the Explosives and Their

Delivery to the D.F.S.(S)

The explosives (complete charge and recovered

remnants), detonators and magnets, perfectly wrapped

and packed, were brought to this city on the alternoon

of the 4th

and were handed over to the Federal security

Police on the morning of May 5, 1967. Later, at

11:30 A.M. on the same day,

they were sent to a powder

magazine at the explosives plant, after having first

been examined by the Director of

the D.F.S.

The explosives

are now at the disposal of the proper authorities (S)

Attached herewith are 12 photographs for

information purposes. (Sl

(5)

Respectfully,

Effective Suffrage, No Re-election

/s/ Illegible

Jose Maria Navarro Barquero

(259458)

On July 5, 1967, the confidential source abroad also

made available a copy of a telegraphic money order originating

Hotel Mante, Ciudad

5

SECRET

Cö

105-165503-36

DocId: 32289117 Page 16

---

## Page 17

SECRET

SECRET

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

in Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz.

da

appears the signature of FRANK FOURGIS In endorsement, receiving

the full amount on that date. (S)

On July 22, 1967, the above source advised that

Investigation at the

Mante In Cludad Mante, Tamaulipas,

revealed a record of a long distance telephone call placed from

the hotel to ALFREDO FUENTES In Maimi, Florida, telephone

79 71 67, on April 12, 1967.

The call was placed by subject

FIORINI, according to the source. (S)

SECRET

SECRET

: 105-165503-36

DocId: 32289117

Page 17

---

## Page 18

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.

SECRET

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

.._CRET)

July 26, 1967

Confidential

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI,

also known as Frank Anthony Sturgis;

RONALD EDWARD THOMPSON;

DONALD FRANCIS ROCHE,

also known as John Henry Schulte;

Dr.' ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA;

JOSE ANTONIO MULET GONZALEZ,

also known as

"Guajiro";

ALFREDO C. FUENTE;

Reported Plans

to

Blow Up Cuban Ship

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

This document contems neither

CLASSIFIED AND

•27s 0i

EXTENDES BY-

tho !

REASON FOR

i ages

He cas le: Con"

SOLE 7 30

distributes out ke your coeney.

FCIM, 11:

1-24

DATE OF REVAG

DECLASSIFICATION

1 16192

0D 116/29

on July 5, 1967, a confidential source abroad made

available a report dated May 8, 1967, prepared by the Mexican

Army,

Department of Military Industry, which 1s

set forth

verbatim as follows (translation from

Spanish):

Department of Military Industry

Subject: Report on Assignment

Tecamachalco, Mexico City, May 8, 1967

T0:

Commanding General of the D.E.M. Brigade

Chief of the Department of Military Industry

Chasited by SP&: lacinde

4-11-94

SECRE CCRE7

Declassify on: DADR/JFK

Classitied by

Declassify on:

CADR 6/16/83

WUNTAINED

BORGIN IS UNGHAESAFIED

EXOBPT WHERE SHOWN

Groap I

OTHERWISE

Excluded

•om automatic

downgrading

ana declassification

40.

Classified by

Exempt from

SECRET

ConfIdentlal

Date of Declassification Indefinate

105-165503-36

DocId: 32289117 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Tone dent 1a2

SECRET

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

in Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

Permit me to inform you on the results of

the assignment given to me and Captain Antonio Olmos

Del Moral at Cludad Mante, Tamaulipas Plaza, May 2, 1967.(S)

I. Background Information. (S)

As is already known, the Secretary of the

•Government, through the (Mexican) Federal Security

Police (D.F.S.), requested the cooperation of the technical

cute tensel

personnel of this Department in

and destruction of some "bombs,

"detonators andenthering

devices which, according to information obtained by the

D.F.S., had been brought into the country and buried at

a spot near

the Mante-C. Victoria road, between kilometers

043 and 644.5

II. Location of the Zone and Spot Where the

Explosives Were Found. (S)

As a result of the above request, the under

On the same day,

at 8:00 A.M., we went to the

Indicated spot, between kilometers 643 and 644, for the

purpose of determining the indicated zone where, according

to the information, was located the spot where the

explosives had been buried.

At the end of four hours, we succeeded in

finding the exact spot where the explosives had been

burled, in a promontory bordering the left side of the

road and approximately 15 meters

from the road, between

kilometers 642 and 643.

The location is shown

Photographs No. 1 and 2(5)

on

III. Location of the Explosives (Sl

In the above-mentioned area, In a zone no(s)

2

Conf

ntial

SECRET

105-165503-36

DocId: 32289117 Page 19

---

## Page 20

SECRET

Peatlal

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

in Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

larger than 25 meters, we unearthed the following: (S)

1) A "bomb" or a double explosive charge,

mapped in sections or a tire inner tube

and fastened

y adhesive tape. Photographs 3 and 4.S

2) Four magnets, consisting of coiled

spools especially positioned, in pairs, to fasten each

of the explosive charges to metallic parts. Photographs

5 and 6.

the magnets, like the charges, were found

wrapped

in sections of an inner tube.(S

3) The detonators for the explosive charges.

These were found wrapped in a plastic bag. Photograph

No. 7(5)

The remnants of an explosive charge.

It is thought that farmers in the area accidentally

alscovered it and.

in attempting to see its

destroyed It completely. Photograph No. 8 Sontents,

separately: (So these remants, the following were recove

a) The explosive material. (5)

b) Fragments of a container, a blue plastic

tape, labels from the

factory which manufactured the

explosive,

remains of newspapers, pieces of plywood

and pieces of a mesh, plastic cloth. Photograph No. 9(5)

IV. Identification of the Explosive Material.

Visual Examination. (S)

Once all the items in the area had been

unearthed, we proceeded to examine them in detail in

order to attempt to identify them and ascertain as to

what condition they were in so as to destroy them,

shuuld conditions warrant 1t. (51

3

Con

entral.

SECRET

185165503-36

DocId: 32289117

Page 20

---

## Page 21

SECRET

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

a) The Explosive Charge - Rectangular in

shape with the following approximate dimensions: 30 x 20

x 7 centimeters.

The charge consists of a block of

explosive covered with a solid, putty-like plastic

material, the entire surface of which is covered with

black insulation tape.

At one of its edges, 2 plugs

Ior an iron pipe of 3/4 inch diameter were found.

These

are fastened separately by a screw to lengths of galvanized

iron pipe of the same diameter and approximately 15

centimeters long.

The pipes are located inside the

explosive charge and serve as a lodging for the detonators.

Two metallic rods of 7 millimeters in diameter and 10

centimeters long extend along the longitudinal axis of

the charge.

They have screws at the ends which serve

to fasten

them to the spools. (5)

The explosive inside Is white in color and

plastic-11ke.

Its characteristics and potency are unknown.

It will be necessary to conduct analyses to determine

its class and type. S

It was ascertained that the explosive charge

was not assembled and ready for detonation, since it did

not contain the proper elements for starting, propagating

and amplilying the detonation. Photograph No. 10•51

Spools-magnets - There are four of them,

and they consist of spools of approximately 3 x 2x1

Inches, containing at their ends two metallic plates

fastened by bolts.

Each of these plates has a bore hole

Into which the small rods used to hold the charge are

placea.

On the side opposite that containing the bore

hole, there is a metallic plate whose function is to

Detonators - The detonators are of the

percussion type and apparently are activated by an

electric current.

They have an approximate lengths)

4

dentS'al

SECRET

105-165503-36

DocId:32289117

Page 21

---

## Page 22

SECRET

Want

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

in Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

2443)

of 25 centimeters and a diameter of 7 to 8 millimeters (S)

They are composed of a percussion mechanism

a safety and an explosive charge. Photograph No. 12.5

Because of the condition in which they were

found and because they were found to be safe for handling

and transportation, they were not destroyed. (Sl

V. Transportation of the Explosives and Their

Delivery to the D.F.s.(S

The explosives (complete charge and recovered

remnants), detonators and magnets, perfectly wrapped

and packed, were brought to this city on the afternoon

of the 4th

and were handed over to the Federal Security

Police on the morning of May 5, 1967. Later, at

11:30 A.M. on the same day, they were sent to a powder

magazine at the explosives plant, after having first

been examined by the Director of the D.F.S.

The explosives

are now at the disposal of the proper authorities (S)

Information purposes.(S)

Attached herewith are 12 photographs for

(5)

Respectfully,

Effective Suffrage, No Re-election

/s/ 111eglble

Jose Maria Navarro Barquero

(259458)

On July 5, 1967, the confidential source abroad also

made available a copy of a telegraphic money order originating

Florida, in the amount of 2490 pesos ($200 U.s.

cumeney), addressed to FRANK FORGIS,

Hotel Mante, Ciudad

Mante, Tamaulipas, dated April 13, 1967. On the reverse side

5

wint

S131 SECRET

185-165503-36

DocId: 32289117 Page 22

---

## Page 23

SECRET

SECRET

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

in Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

ỗnt Tal

appears the signature of FRANK FOURGIS in endorsement, receiving

the full amount on that date. (S)

On July 22, 1967, the above source advised that

Investigation at the

Mante in Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas,

revealed a record of a long distance telephone call placed from

the hotel to ALFREDO FUENTES In Maimi, Florida, telephone

79 71 67, on April 12, 1967.

The call was placed by subject

FIORINI,

according to the source.

(S)

6*

ECRET!

Forn

Tal

105165505-36

DocId: 32289117

Page

23

---

## Page 24

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITÊD STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

SECRET:

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

Cont faential

July 26, 1967

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI,

also known as Frank Anthony Sturgis;

RONALD EDWARD THOMPSON;

DONALD FRANCIS ROCHE,

also known as John Henry Schulte;

Dr. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA;

JOSE ANTONIO MULET GONZALEZ,

also known as "Guajiro";

ALFREDO C. FUENTE;

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

in Mexican

Port,

Possibly Veracruz

This decument contalns neither

na" not concisions of

Classineu

Wall SPS: Mac MaL

ts el te yoor agency,

du and lio comonto are ecito he

distributed outside your agency.

On July 5, 1967, a confidential source abroad made

available a report dated May 8, 1967, prepared by the Mexican

Army, Department of Military Industry, which 1s set forth

verbatim as follows. (translation from Spanish) :

Department of Military Industry

Subject: Report on Assignment

Tecamachalco, Mexico City, May. 8, 1967

1'0:

Commanding General of the D.E.M. Brigade

CLASSIFIED AND

Chief of the Department of Military Industry

EXTENDED BY SPE TEK/AFONS 2116/39

SEC

REASON FOT

FCIM, lI,

DATE QU

REVIEW

WLAINED

-OSITIED.

Lauded WEISED SROWN

• OTHERWISE

DEGLASSIFICATION

picle

Classified oy

Declassify or: GADR

611618-3

Group

1p9. Excluded f

I

l automatic

downgrading and

declassification

classified by 2

Exempt from ch

• Confidential

SECRET

Date of Declassifldat/on Indefinate

105-165583-36 8955

DocId: 32289117

Page 24

---

## Page 25

SECKCI

Confident i-

FRANK: ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

1n Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

Permit me to inform you on the results of

the assignment given to me and Captain Antonio Olmos

Del Moral at Cludad Mante, Tamaulipas Plaza, May 2, 1967(5)

1. Background Information. (5)

As is already known, the Secretary of the

Government, through the (Mexican) Federal Security

Police (D.F.S.), requested the cooperation of the technical

personnel of this Department in

and destruction of some "bombs," detonators and other no

devices which, according to information obtained by the

D.F.S., had been brought into the country and buried at

a spot near

• The Mante-C. Victoria road, between kilometers

043 and 644.S

II. Location of the Zone and Spot Where the

Explosives Were Found• (5)

As a result of the above request, the under-

signed and Captain Olmos, accompanied by two agents of

On the same day,

at 8:00 A.M., we went to the

Indicated spot, between kilometers 643 and 644, for the

purpose of determining the indicated zone where, according

to the information,

was Located the spot where the

explosives had been buried.S

At the end of four hours, we succeeded in

finding the exact spot where the explosives had been

buried, in a promontory bordering the left side of the

road and approximately 15 meters from the road, between

Kilometers 642 and 643.

The location is shown on

Photographs No. 1 and 205

III. Location of the Explosives (5)

In the above-mentioned area, in a zone no(s)

2

Confidential

SECRET

(05165383-36

DocId: 32289117

Page 25

---

## Page 26

SECRET

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

Con

exdential

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

larger than 25 meters, we unearthed the following: (Sl

1) A "bomb" or a double explosive charge,

and lastened

Four magnets, consisting of coiled

spools especially positioned, in pairs, to fasten each

of the explosive charges to metallic parts.

Photographs

5 and 6.

The magnets, like the charges, were found

wrapped

In sections of an inner tube. (S)

The detonators for the explosive charges.

These were found wrapped in a plastic bag. Photograph

No. 7.65

The remnants of an explosive charge.

It is thought that farmers in the area accidentally

in attempting to see its contents,

separately (so these remants, the following were recovere

a) The explosive material.(S)

b) Fragments of a container, a blue plastic

tape, labels from the factory which manufactured the

explosive, remains of newspapers, pieces of plywood

and pieces of a mesh, plastic cloth. Photograph No. 9(51

IV. Identification of the Explosive Material.

Visual Examination. (5)

Once all the items in the area had been

unearthed, we proceeded to examine them in detail in

order to attempt to identify them and ascertain as to

e adentify them

what condition they were in s

as to destroy them,

hould conditions warrant its

(Q)

3

: 105165503-36

DocId: 32289117 Page 26

---

## Page 27

SECRET

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

in Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

dont fal

a) The Explosive Charge - Rectangular in

shape with

the following approximate dimensions: 30 x 20

x 7 centimeters.

The charge consists of a block of

explosive covered with a solid, putty-like plastic

material, the entire surface of which is covered with

black insulation tape.

At one of its edges, 2 plugs

for an iron pipe of 3/4 inch diameter were found.

are fastened separately by a screw to lengths of galvanized

Iron pipe of the same diameter and approximately 15

centimeters long.

The pipes are located inside the

explosive charge and serve as a lodging for the detonators.

Two metallic rods of 7 millimeters in diameter and 10

and nineter

centimeters long extend along the longitudinal axis of

the charge.

They have screws at the ends which serve

to fasten them to the spools. (Sl

The explosive inside is white in color and

plastic-11ke.

Its characteristics. and potency are unknown.

It will be necessary to conduct analyses to determine

Its class and type.(S1

It was

ascertained that the explosive charge

was not assembled and

ready for detonation, since it did

not

contain the proper elements for starting, propagating

and

amplifying the detonation. Photograph No. 10 (S)

b) Spools-magnets - There are four of them,

and they consist of

spools of approximately 3 x 2x1

Inches, containing at their ends two metallic plates

fastened by bolts.

Each of these plates has a bore hole

Into which the small rods used to hold the charge are

placed.

On the side opposite that containing the bore

there 1s a metallic plate whose function is to

serve as the surface which is connected by the magnet

to any metallic surface. Photograph No. 11(5)

Detonators - The detonators are of the

percussion type and apparently are activated by an

electric current.

They have an approximate lengthS)

4

Con

SECRET

ential

105-165503-36

DocId: 32289117

Page 27

---

## Page 28

SECRET

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans

to. Blow Up Cuban Ship

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

entlal

of 25 centimeters and a diameter of 7 to 8 millimeters. (Sl

They are composed of a percussion mechanism.

a safety and an explosive charge.

Photograph No. 12.(s)

Because of the condition in which they were

found and because they were found to be safe for handling

and transportation, they were not destroyed. (Sl

V.

Transportation of the Explosives and Their

Delivery to the DoF.S. (S

The explosives (complete charge and recovered

remnants), detonators and magnets, perfectly wrapped

and packed, were brought to this city on the alternoon

of the 4th

and were handed over to the Federa Security

Police on the morning of May 5, 1967. Later, at

11:30 A.M. on the same day, they were sent to a powder

magazine at the explosives

plant, after having first

been examined by the Director of the D.F.S.

The explosives

are now at the disposal of the proper

authorities.(s)

Attached herewith are 12 photographs for

Information purposes. (S)

(s

Respectfully,

Effective Suffrage, No Re-election

/s/ illegible

Jose Maria Navarro Barquero

(259458)

*

On July 5, 1967, the confidential source abroad also

made available a copy of a telegraphic money order originating

Florida, in the amount of 2498 pesos ($200 U.S.

. Hotel Mante, Ciudad

Mante, Tamaulipas, dated April 13, 196%. On the reverse side

5

: 105-165503-36

DocId: 32289117 Page 28

---

## Page 29

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

SECRET

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

*SECRET

appears the signature of FRANK FOURGIS In endorsement, receiving

the full amount on that date.g

on July 22, 1967, the above source advised that

Investigation at the

Hotel Mante in Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas,

revealed a record of a long distance telephone call placed from

the hotel to ALFREDO FUENTES In Maimi, Florida, telephone

79 71 67, on April 12, 1967.

The call was placed by subject

FIORINI, acaordines to the source (St

SECRET

6*

• SECRET

105-165503-36

DocId: 32289117

Page

29

---

## Page 30

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

SECRET

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

July 26, 1967

Contido

ntial

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI,

also known as Frank Anthony Sturgis;

RONALD EDWARD THOMPSON;

DONALD FRANCIS ROCHE,

also known as John Henry Schulte;

Dr. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA;

JOSE ANTONIO MULET GONZALEZ,

also known as "Guajiro"

ALFREDO C. FUENTE;

Reported Plans

to Blow Up Cuban Ship

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

CLASSIFIED AND

This document conteins neither

recommend tians cer con-lations of

, EXTENDED BY SPETER IOM/CA) 2/4119

the fit f

REASON FOR

the TP

FCIM, I, 1-

it and its testerse cas

nette is

DATE OF HEVIBU FOR

distributed antide your agecey.

DECLASSIFICATION-

On July 5, 1967, a confidential source abroad made

available a report dated May 8, 1967, prepared by the Mexican

Army,

Department of Military Industry, which 1s set forth

verbatim as follows (translation from

Spanish) :

Department of Military Industry

subject: Report on Assignment

Tecamachalco, Mexico City, May 8, 1967

1O:

Commanding General of the D.E.M. Brigade

Chief of the Department of Military Industry

41.44

SP&: Mac sude

SECRET

(9)

Doclasset on:

viassified i

Declassity on:

3ckenel

DR 6/16/83

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HENSIN IS UNCHASSIFIED

EAGER 1 NEERE SHOWN

GIOVIO

I

OTHERWISE

Excluded 11

om automatic

downgrading and

declassification assified by 2oM/

Exemot fran

Che CateporyT

late of veclassication Inde

116.10.1

tonestential

SECRET

p92 para 315

05165583-36p95 Monastu

DocId: 32289117 Page 30

---

## Page 31

SECRET

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

in Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

Permit me to inform you on the results of

the assignment given to me and Captain Antonio Olmos

Del Moral at Cludad Mante, Tamaulipas Plaza, May 2, 1967.(5l

I. Background Information. (Sl.

As is already known, the Secretary of the

For some o, tao t

Government, through the (Mexican) Federal Security

Police (D.F.S.), requested the cooperation of the technical

a desertion one testors and othering

i spartment,

and other

devices which, according to Information obtained by the

D.F.S., had been brought into the country and buried at

a spot

near the Mante-C. Victoria road, between kilometers

643 and 644. (5).

II. Location of the Zone and Spot Where the

Explosives Were Found (S)

As a result of the above request, the under-

signed and Captain Olmos, accompanied by two agents of

the D.F.S., went immediately to Cludad Mante,

Tamaulipas,

and arrived at said plaza at 3:20 A.M., May O, 1907(S1

On the same day, at 8:00 A.M., we went to the

Indicated spot, between kilometers 643 and 644, for the

purpose of determining the indicated zone where, according

to the information, was located the spot where the

explosives had been buried. (S)

At the end of four hours, we succeeded in

finding the exact spot where the explosives had been

buried, In a promontory bordering the left side of the

road and approximately 15 meters from the road, between

kilometers 642 and 643.

The location is shown

on

Photographs No. 1 and 2(5)

III. Location of the Explosives (S)

In the above-mentioned area, in a zone no (5)

2

Con? (dential

SECRET

105-165503-36

DocId: 32289117 Page 31

---

## Page 32

SECRET

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans

to Blow Up Cuban Ship

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

coppedenetar

larger than 25 meters, we unearthed the following: (S)

mapped in sections of a tire inner tub

note raph a 4o or a rome,

2) Four magnets, consisting of coiled

spools especially positioned, in pairs, to fasten each

of the explosive charges to metallic parts. Photographs

5 and 6.

The magnets, like the charges, were found

wrapped

In sections of an Inner tube.(S!

3)

The detonators for the explosive charges.

These were found wrapped in a plastic bag. Photograph

No. 7(5)

The remnants of an explosive charge.

It is thought that farmers in the area accidentally

Iiscovered it and,

in attempting to see its

destroyed it completely. Photograph No. 8. Contenta.

I these remnants, the following were recovered

separately:S

a) The explosive material(S)

b) Fragments of a container, a blue plastic

tape, labels from the factory which manufactured the

explosive, remains of newspapers, pieces of plywood

and pieces of a mesh, plastic cloth. Photograph No. 9•(51

IV. Identification of the Explosive Material.

Visual Examination. (S)

Once all the Items in the area had been

unearthed, we proceeded to examine them in detail in

order to attempt to identify them and ascertain as to

what condition they were in so

as to destroy them,

shuuld conditions warrant it.5

3

conf:

ider

itial

SECRET

105165503-36

DocId: 32289117

Page

32

---

## Page 33

SECRET

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz Confidential

a) The Explosive Charge - Rectangular in

shape with

• the following approximate dimensions: 30 x 20

x 7 centimeters.

The charge consists of a block of

explosive covered with a solid, putty-like plastic

material, the entire surface of which is covered with

black insulation tape.

At one of its edges, 2 plugs

for an iron pipe of 3/4 inch diameter were found.

These

are fastened separately by a screw to lengths of galvanized

Iron pipe of the same diameter and aproximately 15

centimeters long.

The pipes are located inside the

explosive charge

and serve as a lodging for the detonators.

Two metallic rods of 7 millimeters in diameter and 10

centimeters long extend along the longitudinal axis of

the charge.

They have screws

to fasten them to the spools (Sy the ends which serve

The explosive inside 1s white in color and

plastic-like.

Its characteristics and potency are unknown.

it will be necessar

to conduct analyses to determine

Its class and type.s

It was ascertained that the explosive charge

was not assembled and

ready for detonation, since it did

not contain the proper elements for starting, propagating

and amplifying the detonation. Photograph No. 10.(5/

b) Spools-magnets - There are four of them,

and they consist of

spools of approximately 3 x 2x1

Inches, containing at their ends two metallic plates

fastened by bolts.

Each of these plates has a bore hole

Into which the small rods used to hold the charge are

placed.

On the side opposite that containing the bore

there is a metallic plate whose function 1s to

serve as the surface which is connected by the magnet

to any metallic surface. Photograph No. 11(5)

Detonators - The detonators are of, the

percussion type and apparently are activated by an

electric current.

They have an approximate lengthS)

4

Confidential

SECRET

105-165503-36

DocId: 32289117 Page 33

---

## Page 34

--UTET!

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

1n Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

Contential

of 25 centimeters and a diameter of 7 to 8 millimeters. (Sl

They are composed of a percussion mechanism,

a safety and an explosive charge. Photograph No. 12.S

Because of the condition in which they were

ound and because they were found to be sale io

handling

nd transportation, they were not destroyed.S

V. Transportation of the

Explosives and Their

Delivery to the D.F.S.S

The explosives (complete charge and recovered

remnants), detonators and magnets, perfectly wrappea

and packed, were brought to this city on the alternoon

of the 4th and were handed over to the Federal Security

Police on the morning of May 5, 1967. Later, at

11:30 A.M. on the same day, they were sent to a powder

magazine at the explosives plant, after having first

been examined by the Director of

the D.F.S.

The explosives

are now at the disposal of the proper authorities.(S/

Attached herewith are I2 photograpns 101

information purposes S

(s)

Respectfully,

Effective Suffrage, No Re-electias

/s/ illegible

Jose Maria Navarro Barquero

(259458)

On July 5, 1967, the confidential source abroad also

made avallable a copy of a telegraphic money order originating

Hotel Mante, Cludad

Confidentiat SECRET

105-165503-36

DocId: 32289117

Page 34

---

## Page 35

SECRET

SECRET

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up Cuban Ship

in Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

Cont

ential

appears the signature of FRANK FOURGIS In endorsement, receiving

the full amount on that date. (S

On July 22, 1967, the above source advised that

Investigation at the

Mante in Cludad Mante, Tamaulipas,

revealed a record of a long distance telephone call placed from

the hotel to ALFREDO FUENTES In Maimi, Florida, telephone

79 71 67, on April 12, 1967. The call was placed by subject

FIORINI, according to the source. (S)

6*

Conf/deftlal.

SECRET

1051165503-36

DocId: 32289117

Page

35

---

