JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
“PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10195-10366

HQ

92-2781-147

Document Information

FBI
SAC, TP.
DIRECTOR, FBI

03/11/1961
1

LST, ASSOC, TRA, TRIP TO HAITI

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

10/01/1998

INDEFINITE .

v9.1
Docld:32286590 Page 1

21


FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)
© O
FBI

Date: - 3/11/61

Transmit the following in PLAIN TEXT
(Type in plain text or code)
Via AIRTEL AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

y, FROM: SAC, TAMPA (92-1)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR, » aka
AR

DAILY AIRTEL

FELIX MENENDEZ, PSI (Protect Identity), advised :
3/10/61 that on 3/9/61 FRANK TRAFFICANTE, brother of subject, A
told him that subject was in Miami, Fla. but may have made bode
a recent trip to Haiti.

Sources and informants at Tampa fail to reflect -
subject has returned to his residence. a
Miami Office continue efforts locate subject and &
check airline reservations and passenger manifests for persons
flying to Haiti of recent date as DINO CELLINI, a former
close associate of subject, was last reported by general
Cuban sources as operating a casino in Haiti. k

&- Bureau ‘
- Miami (92-88)

1 - Tampa

oo | REG: 51. Vda. AIL AV

5 MAR 13 1961

ao eo

Oa T Wee oa i:

rt pla
‘SY WAR DE WG PE™ 1” Charse

Sent M_ Per

je
|

Docld:32286590 Page 2
