JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10339-10119
RECORD SERIES: BU
AGENCY FILENUMBER: ELSUR 92-61-5-16
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: JENKINS
TO: BU -
TITLE :
DATE: — 02/25/1964
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS :
STEVE MAGADDINO, (ELSURS)
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 10/16/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: = INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

v9.1
DocId:32315155 Page 1


‘United States Government

MEMORANDUM

| TO: ~~, Sac (92-61) (P)
FROM: SA FRANCIS B, JENKINS

SUBJECT: STEVE MAGADDINO
AR

having something in his pocket.

92-288 (PETER A, MAGADDINO)
92-404 (JOHN FELL)

137- (Mrs, ROBERT: JENSON)
92-57 (ANTONIO MACADDINO)
92-274 eee,

92-174 (F, RANDACCIO)

92-58 (Js LA DUCA)

92-197 (V. SCRO)

92-278 (J, CAMMILLERI)

105 LEE HARVEY OSWALD)
g2-61, Sub 5

92-273 F SANSANESE )

PRE RPBPRP REE
Chest eee ay feel es fae estas eee

a ©:

a
We

:jmr
j

O

Date: 2/25/64

Set forth below is information furnished
by BU 280-C* on the dates indicated:

11/22/63

CI advised that he had observed the subject and
two other individuals, ore of whom may have been DANNY
SANSANESE in conversation. The individual who.may have
been SANSANESE was relating that he had told an unidentified
person not to-call anybody such names and this person mentioned
SANSANESE related that he
had told this individual it was.a good thing he did not use
it because within a week he would be dead. He stated that
he told this individual he did not know what he was saying
and did not know to whom he was speaking and that SANSANESE
would forget that he had ever said it.
that this individual "won't kill anybody." MAGADDINO then
made some unintelligible comment in which he mentioned the
names JIMMY WALKER and "the son of

MAGADDINO commented

JOHNNY LONGO (phonetic).

' Searched....Indexed..'
' Serializegg@Biteds..7
1
1
1

EA dat

DocId:32315155 Page 2



BU 92-61

‘Subsequently, an unidentified man was observed
with the subject and PETER A. MAGADDINO and in whispered
conversation was heard to ask PETER A. MAGADDINO for $1,000.
The subject and this man then engaged in a whispered con-
versation which was not audible to the informant.

“Later when news of the assassination of President
KENNEDY was received, PETER A. MAGADDINO commented that a
person would have to be a maniac to commit this assassination.

On 11/23, 24, and 25/63, CI furnished no pertinent
information. aa

Information furnished by informant on 11/26/63,
will be the subject of a separate memorandum.

2 On 11/27/63, CI advised that PETER A, MAGADDINO
had been observed with. PETER (MACK) and that the latter
related that he had been in New York City for two days...
MACK indicated. that he thought he had been under: surveillance
while. on this trip and felt that on the plane coming. back
someone hed gone through his briefcase. He pointed out that
he has gone py the Magaddino-Memorial Chapel at intervals
around. 4:00 or 4:30. a.m., and has seen a car with two men,
in'it apparently watching the chapel... PETER A. MAGADDINO
agreed that the routine of the employees at the funeral
parlor is known, ‘Subsequently they were joined by JOHN °
(FELL) who indicated he had stopped by.to wish the subject
a happy Thanksgiving. He

>A short time later the subject:was observed with
FELL and PETER -A. MAGADDINO. at. which time he appeared to be
upset concerning a woman named JENSON. The subject also
made reference to the statetroopers, FELL indicated that he
would check on the matter and after apparently consulting
a telephone directory indicated that JENSON resides at
510 Dana Drive. After some conversation, during which
it was indicated the JENSONs were attempting to sell their
home, the conversation turned to politics. FELL indicated
that. the nexv, time he might be asked to run for Congress
and if he runs he will be elected. -

nd on iare

10339-70109

_J

DocId:32315155 Page 3

