# docid-32307824

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10293-10182

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-182

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/12/1961

2

SGI, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, ALBERTO CULVER CORP,

SHARES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32307824 Page 1.

450

---

## Page 2

¿DERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMARR 1 2 196 NA

APR 1 2 1961

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Parsons.

Mr. Mohr.

Mr. Belmont_

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Nir. DeLoach

Mr. Evans.

Mr. Malone

URGENT 4>12-51 •

Mr. Rosen

8-10

PM CLM

Mr. Tavel

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31711

Mr. Trotter_

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-3491

2- P

Mr. Ingram

SAMUEL M. GLANCANA, AKA, ARO DAILY SUMMARY.

Miss Gandy.

J16

NICHOLAS D/AMICO, MENTIONED IN SUMMARIES APRIL TEN AND ELEVEN LAST,

TELEPHONICALLY CONTACTED AGENT AND REFUSED TO BE INTERVIEWED PERSONALLY.

ASKED ABOUT HIS INTEREST IN WAGON WHEEL GAMBLING OPERATION IN

NORWOOD PARK, ILLO, AND DENIED THAT HE HAD ANY INTEREST WHATEVER.

HE WAS ASKED RE HIS RELATIONSHIP WITH SAM GIANCANA, AND STATED QUOTE

I HAVE NOTHING TO SAY ABOUT THAT PERSON END QUOTE. HE WAS ASKED

AGAIN ABOUT WAGON WHEEL, AND ADVISED THAT HE HAD NOTHING MORE TO SAY.

CG SIX FOUR THREE THREE DASH C ADVISED THAT HE HAD LEARNED FROM

LESTER KRUSE WHILE AT MGM LOUNGE, CICERO, THAT GIANCANA, ALEX, ROCCO

FISCHETTI, AND ROCCO DEGRAZIO HAD PURCHASED LARGE BLOCKS OF SHARES

OF STOCK IN ALBERTO DASH CULVER CORPO, WHICH HAS A NEW PLANT IN

MELROSE PARK, ILLO THESE SHARES WERE PURCHASED IN NAMES OF RELATIVES

OF ABOVE PERSONS• DAY AFTER STOCK APPEARED ON NEW YORK STOCK

EXCHANGE, PRICE WENT FROM

TENDIO TWENTY FIVE DOLLARS PER SHARE•

NOTED THAT RECORDS OF AT&

CORPO, NEW YORK dE? -

STOCK ISSUED TE DAUGHTERS, NEPHEM AND NIECE GE GRANGAN DR

REFLECT SHARES OF THIS

SITUATION, WITH REGARD TO ALBERTO CULVER CO., WILL BE EXPLORED®

APR 1'8 1961

INFORMANT STATED

THAT ONE ALEX NOBILIO, KNOWN AS A QUOTE BOMBER

END PAGE ONE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

1'58 APR 211961

' DATE b-6-84

BYSP5R5G1

Sue Staffed

DooId: 32307824 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

END QUOTE IS CLOSE TO GIANCANA AND # IS UTILIZED BY GIANCANA FOR

BOMBINGS AND ARSON JOBS• NOBILIO ALLEGEDLY WAS OWNER OF STANLEYS

RESTAURANT AND RAILWAY LOUNGE AND RESTAURANT. INFORMANT ALLEGES

THAT GIANCANA, FELIX ALDERISIO, AND NORTH SIDE HOODLUMS

MEET REGULARLY

AT YORKSHIRE ROOM OF PARK LANE HOTEL, CHICAGO. RE ROCCO PRANNO,

GIANCANA/S REPRESENTATIVE FOR WESTERN SUBURBS, COOK AND KANE COUNTY,

ILLO• INVESTIGATION AT AURORA DASH KANE COUNTY AMUSEMENT CO., REVEALS

THAT RALPH' KELLY PAREN FORMER INFORMANT WHOSE WHEREABOUTS ARE NOW

UNKNOWN END PAREN WAS FORCED INTO PARTNERSHIP WITH PRANNO IN FIFTY

EIGHT. CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF KELLY FURNISHED INFO RECENTLY SUBSTANT-

IATING FACTS OF /PRANNO/S TAKING OVER AURORA KANE COUNTY CO.

BY FORCE. AFTER PRANNO/S REPUTATION AND TACTICS BECAME KNOWN TO

THE COMMUNITY, BUSINESS SUFFERED BADLY. FINALLY IN OCT., SIXTY,

KÉLLY CAME TO HIS ASSOCIATE, STATED QUOTE I AM LEAVING, YOU WILL

NEVER SEE ME AGAIN END QUOTE. UNDERSTOOD THAT KELLY IS NOW IN LIQUOR

BUSINESS IN WISCONSIN• FISUR CONDUCTED AT AURORA KANE COUNTY AMUSEMENT

CO., APRIL ELEVEN LAST REVEALED A CLOSED VAN TRUCK REMOVING ALL

FURNISHINGS FROM THIS CO., BORE NAME OF DONAN DISTRIBUTING CO:

CHICAGO. DRIVER IDENTIFIED AS ONE BILL THOMAS, CURRENTLY IN THE

EMPLOYE OF ROCCO PRANNO: INVESTIGATION CONTINUING. ARMED AND

DANGEROUS.. U

isl

END AND ACK PLS.

9-18 PM OK FBI WA JS HOLDING •

DocId: 32307824 Page 3

---

