# docid-32305401

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

124-10288-10031

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2717-671

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NK

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

08/24/1962

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

ABR, BONANNO, JOSEPH, REL, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

03/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305401

Page

393,

---

## Page 2

Mir. Tolson-

Mr. Belmont

EDERAL EUNGAU OF IIVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MUG 2 4 1961

TELETYPE

Mr. Moh. -

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrady.

Mr. Delyach

MI. Evans.

Mr. Malote.

Mr. Rosen i

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel-

Mr. Trotter.

URGENT 8-24-62

11-12

PM

JBN

Tele. Room...

Miss Holmes.

TO- DIRECTOR, FBI 192-2717/ AND SAC, PHILADELPHIA /92-4458 Gandy...

FROM- KAC,

NEWARK /92-4781

ANGELO

BRUNO, AKAO, AR• DO PHILADELPHIA

RE NEWARK TELETYPES TO THE BUREAU TODAY•

i cheffe

PHOENIX JELETYPETO NEWARK JODAY STATED SAN FRANCISCO MAD

ADVISED JOSEPH BONANNO IN SAN FRANCISCO ON AUGUST TWENTY

THREE LAST AND PLANNING TO RETURN TO TUCSON THIS WEEK END.

BONANNO HAD NOT RETURNED TO TUCSON.

SAN FRANCISCO SUBSEQUENTLY ADVISED NEWARK THAT JANET

FISYR, PCI, TODAY ADVISED THAT CATHERINE GENOVESE, DAUGHTER

OF JOSEPH BONANNO, STATED TODAY THAT HER PARENTS HAD LEFT

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA TWO DAYS AGO BY CAR AND INDICATED THE BONANNOS

WERE RETURNING TO TUCSON• SAN FRANCISCO SUGGESTED

THE POSSIBILITY EXISTS THAT THE JOSEPH BONANNO REFERRED TO

BY NEWARK MAY BE IDENTICAL WITH JOSEPH BONANNO, JR.

SINATRA-S PERSONAL PLANE HAD NOT DEPARTED ATLANTIC CITY,

NoJo AS OF EIGHT THIRTY POM• TODAY•

-_END AND PLS ACKA:

WA

11-12 PM OK FBI WA IS

OP FBI PH GMCN

5 FLSADEs® 1 1962

F19

REG- 14

86 AUG 29 1962

a shery

DocId: 32305401 Page 2

---

