# docid-32332762

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90104-10060

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2940-199

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel •

Case#:NW 56792 Date:

4-11-2018

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

PG

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 07/21/1961

'PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 4;11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/05/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HH 56792

19

DooId: 32332762

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PG 92-226

PITTSBURGH

AT PITTSBURGH, PA. (ALLEGHENY COUNTY)

Will follow and report activities of SEBASTIAN

JOHN LA ROCCA and his associates in accordance with

Bureau instructions.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Information from records of the First National Bank of

Mercer County, Farrell Office, Farrell,

confidential and should not be made public in the

absence of a subpoena directed to PAUL WILLIAMS,

Manager of the Farrell Office of the First National

Loreated t

Bank of

• Mercer County and Vice-President of the parent

bank.

Information from records of the Southern Bell Telephone

and Telegraph co., at Miami, Florida, is confidential

and should not be made public in the absence of a subpoena

directed to SID JENNETTE, Manager, Southern Bell Telephone

and Telegraph Co., Miami, Florida.

INFORMANT COVERAGE RELATING TO THIS REPORT

PG T-1 is PG 632-C, who was contacted by SA ROBERT A.

VOEGE on 6/8/61 and 6/20/61.

PG T-2 is

PG 585-C, who was contacted by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE

on 6/7/61.

PG I-3 is PCI GEORGE "MOON" MESSER, who was contacted by.

SA ROBERT A. VOEGE on 6/7/61.

PG T-4 1S PCI JOHN ETOCIN, who was

contacted by SA ROBERT A.

VOEGE on 6/7/61.

T-5

is PG 622-C*, who was contacted by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE

6/8/61.

PG T-6 is Former PCI

JFK Act 6 (4)

who was contacted by

SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH,

III, on 6/6/61.

-B*-

COVER PAGE

HH 56792

DocId: 32332762 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-304 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:.

Report of:

Date:

ROBERT A. VOEGE

7/21/61

Field Office File No.: Pittsburgh 92-226

Title:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA

Office: PITTSBURGH

Bureau File No.:

92-2940

Character:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

LA ROCCA remains in Pittsburgh, Pa., area

and tentative

plans call for no summer vacation,

according to informants.

Adopted son taking first-year general college courses at

University of Pittsburgh, Johnstown, Pa. Extension, where

he resides with JOSEPH REGINO, business

and social

associate

Of LA ROCCA who operates Keystone Sales, Inc., that city.

on 6/28/61; adopted son had accident with automobile he

received as graduation present on 6/1/61, but suffered no

injuries.

associates, legitimate enterprises and banking connections

set forth.

WITH INTENT TO KILL AND HIS ARREST FOR CARRYING A CONCEALED

WEAPON, HE MAY BE ARMED AND SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

DISSEMINATION RESTRICTED TO JUSTICE DEPARTMENT

JFK Law 11(a)

Information relating to

IN VIEW OF THE CONVICTION OF LA ROCCA FOR ASSAULT

P

92-2940-199

This document contains neither recommendations content clusions of this bited outs the or at el the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

HH

56792

DocId:32332762

Page

3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-226

CALOGARO: CIAPPARRA, aKa.

ROBERT MADDEN, Special Agent, Intelligence Unit, Internal

Revenue Service, Pittsburgh,

Pa., advised that his

JFK Law 11(a)

ANGELA BARBARA, aka.

Mich

on June 5, 1961, It was learned by the Pittsburgh office

that ANGELA BARBARA of Apalachian, New. York, the daughter

of Mrs. JOSEPH BARBARA, would be married to Dr. ANTHONY....

A MESSANA of Grosse Point, Michigan, on June 8, 1961, at

the St. Cair Montefalco

Catholic Church, Detroit, Michigan.

It was also learned that the reception would be held on that

same date at the Hillcrest Country Club, Mt. Clemens,

Michigan.

The doctor is an osteopath intern at the Highland

Park Osteopathic Hospital.

Upon receipt of this information, PG I-1, PG I-2,

PG T-3

and PG T-4 were immediately contacted to

be alert for any

- 8 -

92-2940-194

HH 56792 DocId:32332762 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-226

The aforementioned informant advised that ROY VEY, another

supervisory official at the North star Cement BLock Co.,

is very annoved about questions asked of him bu Internal

Revenue Service Agents and is particularly annoyed with the

fact that his interviewers

want a cost of living figure

from him and found it hard to believe that his mother loaned

him the money to put into the

North Star operation.

The aforementioned information concerning possible illegal

activity on the part of LA ROCCA and the employees of the

North Star Cement Block Company has been disseminated to

the terra Revenueo

the Internal Revenue Service at Pittsburgh, Pa.

D. LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES

Information Pertaining to Legitimate

Financial Activities

The Phoenix Motel, Monroeville, Pa.

PG I-6 has advised that he has recently heard rumors among

Pittsburgh area gamblers to the effect that ARTHUR D.

"ARCHIE"

NELSON wants to sell the Phoenix Motel at

Monroeville, Pa., for an unknown reason.

He said the heart

attack suffered by NELSON during May, 1961, 1s believed by.

these gamblers to have been staged to preparé a plausible

reason for him to sell a profitable business.

convinced the alleged heart attack is a "phony! According.

the same gamblers have stated that they

ano abore,

They are

to the informanti the boys from New Kensington" are interested

understand that

in buying the Phoenix Motel.

He believes this reference

can only mean that the MANNARINO brothers personally are

interested in the purchase or that it will be referred to someone

fronting for them.

Special Agent ROBERT MADDEN, Intelligence Unit, Internal

Revenue Service, Pittsburgh, has already advised that his

JFK Law 11(a)

- 10 -

92-29,40194

HH 56792 Do0Id:32332762

Page 5

---

