FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

PBI

1

!

1

1

1

|

1

: 1
Date: 7/31/64 H
EE 1
1

1

1

1

1

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL
(Priority or Method of Mailing)
---- gVigaeepagatasaeca setae
H DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)
‘ROM: SAC, DETROIT (92-214) (P)
COSA NOSTRA

"7/31/64. :

34 B : ; “4 a
CP chicage (92-1173) G2 os A g ft -Jas

AR- CONSPIRACY
Re Milwaukee airtel, 7/17/64; CGairtel, 7/28/64; MI radiogram,

DE 370-C-TE, DE 862-C-TE, DE 868-C-TE, DE 889-C-TE, DE 906-C*,
DE 919-C* and DE 987-C* have furnished no info indicating
travel out of Detroit area over week end of 8/2/64 of local
hoodlums likely to attend a Chicago meeting. Possibility of a
meeting not discussed with informants per previous instructions,

No info received as result of airline stops previously placed.
JOSEPH ZERILLI, head of Detroit "family" and "Commission" member,

is now at cottage at Higgins Lake, Mich, DE 889-C-TE advised
7/31/64, that ZERILLI has bad eye infection, and that he has bi

mn

instructed to call ZERILLI night of 7/31/64, to determine whetfiér
ZERILLI wants to be driven back to Detroit on 8/1/64, for further
medical attention. LP eed

The Bureau and Chicago will be advised of any pertinent
developments.

1 - Milwaukee (92-262) (Info)
1 - Detroit

REC- 96 conan reomee SeS
HEH: AMH é
(7) 3 AUG 8 1964
“5 er Wik
: P ane: AS
Approved: & Sent M Per

6 4AUG 74 ae" Agent in Charge

Docld:32576093 Page 1



“4 7 on *

FI-96 (Rov. 12-19-56)
O, C)

FBI

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Vie AIRTEL

t
1

I

t

I

It

Date: 7/28/64 !
!

|

i

1

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

its : DIRECTOR, FBI: (92-6054)
|,4 FROM : SAC, CHICAGO (92-1173)

q SUBJECT: “LA COSA NOSTRA
AR ~ CONSPIRACY

Re Bureau airtel to Milwaukee dated 6/8/64; Milwaukee
airtel to the Bureau dated 6/12/64 and Chicago airtel to the
Bureau dated 6/29/64.

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are four (4) aerial
photographs taken by Bureau Agents depicting a panoramic view
of SAM 'TEETS' BATTAGLIA's Free Meadows Stock Farm, Route 1,
Pingree Grove, Illinois.

It is to be noted that MI 623-C.~TE has furnished
information regarding a proposed meeting in the Chicago
vicinity on 8/2/64 of the La Cosa Nostra (LCN). The Bureau

this matter to insure that MI 623-C-TE is not compromised or
placed in jeopardy. The Bureau is to be kept advised of all é
pertinent developments.

Bureau (RM)(Enc. 4)
Boston (RM)
Buffalo (RM)
Cleveland (RM)

Los Angeles (RM)

Miami (RM)

Milwaukee (92-262) (RM) 1 JUL 301964
Newark (RM)

New Oy leans (RM)

New York (92-2330) (RM)
Tampa } (RM)
Chicago

1 = 92-914
WLB: kmh

qs) GY

ieee epee ||

optetrrrrrnd

has instructed that extreme care is to be exercised in pursuing; j

“4 f hy
earees fire. (RM) & REC 27, g 4 LOE Y4 8

Docld:32576093 Page 2



“ : : aust

CG 92-1173 j

Milwaukee should maintain particularly close contact.
with MI 623-C-TE for any additional details regarding this
proposed meeting and should immediately advise Chicago concerning
same, Milwaukee advise Chicago if MI 623-C, ¥ contemplates attend-
ing meeting. {

By way of background, SAM "TE. BATTAGLIA is a top
hoodlum in the Chicago, Division. It has been reported by itr
several informants that BATTAGLIA is one of the Chicago area L

hoodlums who would replace SAM GIANCANA as head of organized aa
crime in the Chicago area when and if GIANCANA steps down.

BATTAGLIA has owned and operated the Free Meadows Stock Farm

since 1947 and is the owner of record of this farm. “He is well
known in the farming community of Pingree Grove, Illinois, and |
is deemed to be "a respectable citizen" in that area. Chicago

informants have advised fhat over the years Chicago area hoodiums

have frequented BATTAGLI 2: eekent ‘on
3 Ch occasi. ‘AGLIA uses them for painting fences and répairs., |
This has TLTSd- by ROBERT”

EOUENETER Deputy Sheriff, Kane County, aaa life-time resident of
the Pingree Grove community. KOLLWETER recently advised that,
although BATTAGLIA's reputation ag &°Chicago hoodlum is known’ in
the Pingree Grove community, his activities in that area have |
been those of a model citizen and he is respected as such in that
area.

The physical layout of BATTAGLIA's farm is situated H
approximatély 55 miles northwest of Chicago. The actual .
location of this farm is approximately one half milé north of

Pingree Grove on Damisch Road. The houses and barns are situated

on the crést of 4 hill on the east side of Damisch Road, affording

a commanding viéw of the country side in all directions, It is

to be noted that the farm has three separate residences, large modern
swimming pool recently installed, a race track for, training..race

horses” and several other farm builcings, BATTAGLIA owns or leases

many acres adjacent to the farm so that the nearest points of
observation, not on BATTAGLIA's property, are far removed. On all

of BATTAGLIA' S property, either owned or Meera: he has_ signs

Sted indicat that the 1 is. and

icates that all trespassers thereon Will on
nts eI SRR CUTIE cessation mnanaetR

-~ 2—

Docld:32576093 Page 3
