# docid-32570768

## Page 1

STANDARD FURM NO. 64

Of litateles

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

Director, FBI (100-339235)

DATE:

June 28, 1956

SABET AIR COURIER

Joon :

SUBJECT:

Legat, Tokyo, Japan (100-36)

SUE

WARREN

SM - C

No 1/90.

Re New York letter to Bureau 4/10/56 captioned "GRACE

HUTCHINS,

SM-C" (Bufile 100-51757).

Reference letter set forth a letter dated March 9,

1956

FrOM SUE WARREN, who gave her address as

"Fujin Minshu Aurabu

7-12, Shiba - Shinbash, Minatoku, Tokyo, Japan. "

According to jules of security Group, G-2, AFFE, Camp

Drake, Japan, the Fujin Minshu Kurabu (Women's

Democratic Club

is a communist front national organization affiliated with the

All-Japan Federation of Women's Organizations.

It publishes an

organ, the "Fujin Minshu Shimbun" (Women's Democratic Newspaper).

G2 files reflect that about 15% of the total membership

of the Women's Democratic Club are Japan Communist Party (JCP)

members, and 20% can be classified as Communist sympathizers.

The Women's Democratic Club held its l0th National Con-

vention at Tokyo on June 5-6, 1955.

Check of indices of the American Embassy, Tokyo, Consular

Division on June 15, 1956; Headquarters, OSI, FEAF, Fuchu Air

Station, Japan on May 28, 1956; and Security Group, G-2, AFFE on

June 22, 1956 revealed no record of SUE WARREN.

On June 25, 1956, Mr. HISAO MAZAKI of the National polide

Agency of Japan was asked to check records of his agency concaming

subject.

It would be appreciated if the Bureau could furnish

office background concerning subject, including any aliases she is

known to have used:

The Bureau may wish to furnish copies of this memorandum

for information to the New York Office (100-42479; 100-13470).

REVIEWED BY BVIPK

7-11

10/22/91

RECORDED-20

FIN FULL

JUL 6 1956

HLC: jar

(4)

RELEASE IN PART

1POTAL DEMIAL

SUBV!

DocId: 32570768

Page 1

---

