JFK Assassination System # Date: 5/7/2015

Identification Form -

“Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10196-10115
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 92-3171-1069
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, HN
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 06/26/1963
‘PAGES: 5
SUBJECTS :
: SGI, PHOTO, TRA, SCHEDULE, ASSOC
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 03/20/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

v9.
Docld:32286839 Page 1

66


FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56) ) 2 ©

a '
we

7

“Transmit the following in

FBI

Date: 6/26/63

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171) Wl 5
FROM: SAC, HONOLWIN (92-68) (P) :

y
"CHANGED" 4 :

SAMUEL NW. GIANCANA, aka., F, Carson, etc. NS
AR /
.00: Chicago YL

by subject during his visit in Hawaii, 6763. W)

Remyairtel and rad, 6/21/63. Co)

bits from the Honolulu file which may be of. use in
ture Mvestigations;: (yo

“y e

‘ 1) .35 mm strip of film (13 frames), depicting

ay subject, JAMES PERNO, Mrs. MARIE PERNO, Miss

} at Honolulu International Airport, 6/12/63
graphs were taken by airport photographer JOHN
: 2) One 4x5 negative picturing above individuals
red and unknown male No. 2, who utilized name JAMES
¥

§
Hotel.
s

Street, employee of Carter Rhoto Service.

~ Bu: i i Pr.
= Tos Ange les MCT

byt
Py

_,ritle changed to add alias of F, CARSON “name aged

a

ANNETTE PERNO and Miss FRANCINE GIANCANA, arriving
-  Photo-

BONSEY of. the Carter Photo Service, Royal Hawaiian

Pf

Enclosed for Chicago Office, only, are. the following

GRANGE having dinner at Fisherman's wharf, Honolulu,
6/14/63. Photograph made by SUE LARGOSA li 7 Poki
“

+ Chicago BT Lf Bacis 4) (ano) > 3/ 7 7 1409

v

1
1l- Mem (eeoy (in ;
1 = Miami (info
2 /- New York (92-793) (info) . REC BS as ;
1 - San Francisco (info) a
1 - Honolulu ae ’ fet
TSA sen 7
(aj {5b
Approvpri:es cate Sent M.- Per
Special Agent‘in Charge
nov wee

Docld:32286839 Page 2


HN 92-68 ,
JERRY JOHNSTON, Assistant Pro, Waialae Country Club,
reported that subject and unlnown male No. 2 played 18 holes
of golf as a twosome on the afternoons~of 6/16-18, 20; teed
off at about 11:10 a.m. 6/21 and afternoon of 6/22/63. In
each instance, green fees, golf.cart and caddy fees were

paid by unknown male No. 2. (9) .

MIKE HICKEY, Surf-Rider Hotel, confidentially
reported dinner reservations for party of six were booked by
"PERNO" at the Merry Monarch Restaurant, Waikiki, for evening
of 6/20/63 and evening of 6/22/63.. Dinner reservations were
booked for six'at Msherman's Wharf Restaurant evening of

6/21/63. ()

HICKEY reported on 6/20/63 that "PERNO" sought
to contact CHIAPETTA (ACHILLE J CHIAPETTA - see my airtel
6/21/63), at his Marine Barracks Station, but CHIAPETTA
was not in and a message was left for him to call back. (y)

On 6/22/63, CHIAPETTA contacted "PERNO" at 6:28
p.m. from the Lobby = telephone indicating he would come
right up. However, at 6:35 p.m., CHIAPETTA again called
and was given instructions on how to get to PERNO's Lihikai
Suite. This would indicate the first occasion of CHIAPETTA's
visit in that suite. (uw) :

: According to HICKEY, at 9:53 p.m., 6/20/63, a male
voice in the PERNO suite telephoned 991388 to inquire for one
"IYNN" (ph). The party was not in. “Telephone company records
veflect this number is listed to the recently opened Waikild
Restaurant - ‘night club Imown as Betty Reilly's Copacabana

at 1900 Kalakaua Avenue. Ww .

On 6/25/63, PCI MARY ANNE CARTER advised that one
ANN LUND, possibly identical with LYNN, is associated with
BETTY REILLY in the operation of the:Copacabana. It is
noted that an item appeared during 5/63 in EDDIE SHERMAN's
Colum in the "Honolulu Advertiser", regarding appearance of .
FRANK SINATRA at the opening of: the Copacabana, assisting his
"old friend" BEIMTY REILLY. w)
i
HICKEY reported an incoming: long distance call at =
1:18 a.m., 6/23/63 from some female asking for "SAM" PERNO,
The operator was advised that "Mr. CARSON” in another room,
was taking the calls. No information was available on any
subsequent call to CARSON, b) .

HICKEY reported "PERNO" telephoned PAULINE LAKE,
afternoon of 6/21/63. It was subsequently determined that
PAULINE LAKE operates a dress salon in the Royal Hawaiian

Hotel. e)

ee

| Docld:32286839 Page 3

