(A
JFK Assassination System Date: 5/19/201
Identification Form

“Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10293-10345

RECORD SERIES: HQ

1 . AGENCY FILENUMBER: 92-6054-2109

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: BONNER, JOHN C.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/11/1967
“PAGES: 23

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, ASSOC, CORBI, FRANK, BOSS, CRIMINAL
ACT, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

oa COMMENTS: = RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE la

v9.l 16
DocId:32307987 Page 1


FD+ce3 (Rev, =

oS ©

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE iieiatiaat INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD:
i BALTIMORE NEW YORK 9/11/67 4/6/66 ~ 8/17/67
TITLE OF CASE :

REPORT MADE BY TYPED BY

SA" JOHN C, BONNER mer
LA COSA NOSTRA, aka CHARACTER OF CASE
BALTINORE DIVISION

AR - CONSPIRACY

REFERENCES: . _.

Report of SA J. STANLEY ROTZ dated 6/3/66 at Baltimore.
Bureau airtel dated 8/11/67.

-P-
ENCLOSURES TO THE BUREAU AND NEW YORK:
SE ND _NEW_ YORK’

Two copies each of a letterhead memorandum characterizing
the informanté:utilized in this report.

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA:

%

JOSEPH GALLO, mentioned herein, the subject of New York
file 92-657, Baltimore file 92-509, and Bureau file 92-7094.

ay ters
COVER PAGE

Case has been: Pending over one year [Sf Yes ]

Pending presecuticn over six months [[} Yes [i}No

G- Bureau (92-6054) (En-g<—-2) LA tGd5Y- R | :
1 = Pittsburen (92-225 (INFO) : ae
2 - Baltimore (92-403) iy enedenene

ae oo SPECIAL AGENT DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES EELOW
ay ;
New York (92-230! Wee 2)

Dissemination Récord of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

” Dete Fwd.

How Pwd.

By

Docld:32307987 Page 2


1

BA 92-403

ERNEST DE VITO, meytioned herein, is subject of
New York files 92-2604 and 1 1054; Baltimore files 92-700
and 166-385; and Bureau files 92-7232 and 166-1554.

ANTONIO RIPEPI, mentioned herein, is the subject of
Pittsburgh file 92-223. .

With respect to BENJAMIN MAGLIANO, better known as
BENNY TROTTA, Baltimore is currently contacting him as a Top
Echelon informant target. His activities have been very
closely followed during the past seven years, including a
three-year period when coverage was afforded by a hig!
confidential source. At no time was there any indication of
actual membership in or cooperation with La Cosa Nostra on
the part of MAGLIANO, He has admitted being friendly with
FRANKIE CARBO, a New York hoodlum who has excercised
considerable control in the boxing world and since MAGLIANO
was interested in scheduling boxing bouts for HOLLY MIMS, a
boxer owned and managed by MAGLIANO, he, MAGLIANO, had to
maintain a friendly relationship with CARBO. Although it is
possible that MAGLIANO could have been a member of the La
Cosa Nostra. without such membership being apparent, it is
felt that the factors indicating the contrary out-weigh those
indicating the possibility.

Efforts have been unsuccessful to develop, as Top
Echelon informants, a La Cosa Nostra member; however, under
development at the present time as a Top Echelon informant
target is CHARLES THOMAS BARBERA. Other individuals who,

although not suspected members of La Cosa Nostra but who are .

of Italian extractionaand acquainted with suspected members,
are being contacted in an effort to cultivate and develop
them into productive informants regarding La Cosa Nostra.
Suspected members, MARIO ORAZIO ANELLO, FRANK MALVASO, FRANK
CORBI, were all interviewed as subjects to appraise their
possibility as Top Echelon targets.

The listed members and suspected members of La Cosa
Nostra in the Baltimore Division, only FRANK CORBI and JOSEPH
GIGLIOTTI, have given any indication. of being engaged in
illegal activities during the past seven years. CORONA,
MORICI and ANELLO are in poor physical health and their
movements are restricted by their.afflictions and old age.

-B-
COVER PAGE

Docla

132307987 Page 3


BA 92-403

JOSEPH CORBI operates the pizza business, which is owned
by himself and FRANK CORBI and he is not known to be
engaged in any illegal activities. JOE TAMBURELLO,
proprietor of a small neighborhood grocery store, spends
approximately 14 hours a day, 7 days a week operating

his business. CHARLES BARBERA and JAMES ROMANO, both
barbers, show no sign of any illegal activity, but spend
most of their time at their businesses. FRANK MALVASO, who
recently sold his interest in a pizza shell business to the
CORBI's, and is retired, recently moved to Largo, Florida.

INFORMANTS:
“BA Te1 1s BA 1232-PC, contacted by SA JOHN C.
BONNER. : ‘
: BA T-2 is BA 1349-PC, contacted by SA J. STANLEY .
ROTZ. -
. BA T-3 is BA 1381-PC, contacted by SA JOHN Cc. -
BONNER, :
BA P-4 is NY 5542-C-TE, contacted by a New York Agent.
BA T-5 is BA 1166-C-TE, contacted by SA JOHN Cc.
BONNER. é
BA T-6 is BA 1407-PC, contacted by SA JOHN C.
BONNER. :
"BA T+7 4s.BA 1333-PC, contacted by SA ARTHUR S.
HAMILTON. .
BA T-8 is PH 591-C*, contacted by a Philadelphia
Agent. - :
BA T-9 is NY 4018-C-TE, contacted by a New York
Agent.
BA T-10 is PH 599=C-TE, contacted by a Philadelphia
Agent. ‘
: BA T-11 -is ‘BA 1336-c,. contacted by SA ARTHUR S.
HAMILTON. i i
BA T-12 is BA 1207-¢, contacted by SA JOHN 6.
BONNER. E

COVER PAGE

Docld:32307987 Page 4__



BA 92-403

In addition to the foregoing, the following
informants: were contacted in captioned matter on the dates
indicated, but were unable to furnish any positive

information:
Informant Date of Contact Contacting Agent
PCI JAMES I. IVERSON April 19, 1966 _ SA CHARLES M. FLEURY
BA 1200-¢ May 6, 1966 SA FRANCIS L. PEARTHREE
BA 1156-c May 13, 1966 SA TIMOTHY J. HYNES, JR.
BA 1293-C a May 20, 1966 SA WILLIAM R, INNES
BA 1298-c June 3, 1966 SA PAUL A. TURNER
PCI FRANK SIMMS May 26, 1966 SA PAUL D. EARNEST
BA 1280-c May 26, 1966 SA PAUL D. EARNEST
BA 1255-PC August 3, 1966 SA JAMES F, KENNEDY
BA 1342-PC “October 11, 1966 SA J. STANLEY ROTZ
BA 1255-=PC November 28, 1966

January 12, 1967 SA JAMES F. KENNEDY
LEADS:

PITTSBURGH DIVISION :
: A copy of this report is being furnished to the
Pittsburgh Dividion in that ANTONIO RIPEPI, mentioned herein,
is subject of investigation conducted by Pittsburgh Division.
BALTIMORE DIVISION

AT BALTIMORE, MARYLAND

fe : -D-.-
COVER PAGE

| socra:32307567 Page 5
