# docid-32286805

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10196-10081

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-1036

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/10/1963

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

SGI, TRA, GAMBLING, ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

14

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC INVEST NOTE

49.1

I DocId: 32286805

64

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SPECIAL, INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION

*? June 11, a1963 &

.:=.

Potential informant Lowerl

Williamson,

husband of Dorothy McGuire of the

singing sister team, is concerned over

the affair between Phyllis McGuire and

Chicago underworld leader Sam Giancana.

Williamson is cooperative and has been

furnishing information as to Giancana's

movements and travels.

Potential

informant Victor Collins is travel

arranger for the McGuire sisters and

although indicating surface cooperation

with the Bureau, he reportedly advised

Giancana of FBI

contact with him.

Future contacts with Collins will be

handled with caution in view of this.

Legat Paris being alerted to reported

plans of Giancana to visit that city

and it is being requested to establish

coverage in the event Giancana makes

this trip. No record located in

National Stolen Property File for 27

orat uncut stone Gianona allegedly

offered to sell Williamson:VERs

SIDE FOR

ACTION

ICATION

DocId: 32286805

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FBI

Date:

6/10/63

Transmit the following in

Via

TO:

FROM:

AIRTEL

SUBJECT:

AdMr. Mohr

Mr.

Casper_.

Mr. Callahan

MIr.

Conrad.

Mr. DeInta

Mr. Evan

Gale..

*Ит.

Rosend

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr. Tavel.

Mr. Trotter...

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy..

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

SAC, NEW YORK (92-793)

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA aka

AR ANTIRACKETEERING

(00: CHICAGO)

On 6/10/63, PCI LOWEL

NYO and was interviewed by

SAS

9°

No appeared at

the

PATRICK J. COLLINS, JI.,

and CHARLES G. DONNELLY. (V)

He saja that he returned to NY on Thursday,

was also

the weekend and

WILLIAMSON's cooperation with the FBI.

decided to cooperate fully with the FBI:

WILLIAMSON has

the agents in NYC and,

He will contact

MARSHALL E. RUTLAND.

when in Chicago, will contact SA

ALE INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

Bureau (92-3171)

Boston (Info)

2

- chicago (92-349)

- Honolulu (Info)

1

*MIami (92-170) (Info)

- Newark (Info)

Kansas City (92-138) (Info

• New York 137-95(9)

- New

York

137-9502

1

- New

York

(92-793)

REG

92-3171-1036

8 JUN 11 1963

CGD: nbe

(14)

Approved:

Special

Agen't Irl Charge

Sent

M

Per

4-1

C. C. Wick

54 JUN 25 1963

DocId: 32286805

Page 3

3,4

---

## Page 4

NY 92-793

WILLIAYSON advised that he knows the FBI contacted

contact.

COLLINS pointed out to PHYLLIS MC GUIRE that

she should stop seeing GIANCANA and get away from him

completely. COLLINS also said that GIANCANA is a murderer

and dealer

in narcotics and tried to point out to the sisters

that the FBI was their "friend" and GIANCANA their

, "enemy"

WILLIAMSON said that CHRISTINE and DOROTHY indicated to him

they now believe the FBI is their "friend" but PHYLLIS has

given no indication how she feela about this. (le)

It is pointed out that when COLLINS was inter-

viewed he was advised of the confidential nature of this

relationship with the FBI and he stated he would keep the

contact confidential. (U)

WILLIAMSON advised that GIANCANA 1s in NYC at

the present time and belleves he came o NiC o friday,

6/7/63, from Chicago. U

GIANCANA,

on satandar night, 5/3/53, MANN NI

FRANK/SINATRA: and AVA GARDNER.

SINATRA'S

parents home in New Jersey. my

on sunday, 6/9/63, the Mc Guire sisters appeared

on the Ed Sullivan TV Show.

Later, the Mc Guire sisters,

WILLIAMSON, TONY RIPOSA (accompanyist), VIC COLLINS and

GIANCANA went to Trader Vic's Restaurant. Following this

the party went to Jilly's

Restaurant, finishing up the

night about 4:00 a.m.

GIANCANA

1s

staying at PHYLLIS' apartment,

525 Park Avenue.

While at Jilly's, one BOB GENNAY (ph) joined: the

party and PCI ascertained that GENNAY 1s an attorney and

is very close to SINATRA. He is supposed to have many

contacts in US Customs Bureau and supposedly when AVA

GARDNER came from Spain recently he cleared her luggage

without any trouble l

2

DocId: 32286805 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NY 92-793

WILLIAMSON advised that SINATRA's telephone

number 1n NY 1s Yukon 8-6940. (W)

He stated the Me Guire sisters are leaving NYC

on Wednesday, 6/12/63, for Framingham, Mass., and

as yet

have not made arrangements for their stay there (1)

GIANCANA indicated he will leave NYC on Tuesday

in 2 ve caban

5/11/63, but PHYLLIS does not want him to leave until 6/12/63.

He indicated he is going to Hawaii sometime at the end of

this week and that he is then going on to Paris, France.

GIANCANA made Inquiries to determine if he could travel

from

Hawall to Paris without returning through the US, but

has pretty well decided to return through the US. WILLIAMSON

said he does not know the purpose of this trip but if he had

to guess de would say that GIANCANA was going to see

Layboy conterming gambling in the Dominican Republic.

*Dominican Republic Diplomat and international

RUBIROSA lives In Paris and GIANCANA has, in the past,

in the about blane mentioned gambling

WILLIAMSON does not believe GIANCANA is going to

Framingham, but he pointed out that GIANCANA travels a lot

and possibly will stop there to see PHYLLIS. (U

WILLIAMSON estimated that GIANCANA has given

PHYLLIS over million dollars worth of jewelry since going

with her. GIANCANA on Saturday asked PCI If PCI desired

to buy a

27 carat uncut stone for $100,000. GIANCANA said

1t was worth 2 to 3 hundred thousand dollars. GIANCANA

Indicated he could get such a stone.

(U)

DocId: 32286805

Page 5

---

## Page 6

r.

NY 92-793

PHYLLIS has received beautiful jewelry from

GIANCANA and has had imitations made of all the jewelry.

WILLIAMSON does not know who supplies GIANCANA with the

jewelry or who makes the imitations but believes it may be

(FNU) KOSLOW, who has a jewelry store in the Fountainbleu

Hotel, Miami Beach, and also a store at 724 5th Ave., NYC.

(The Manhattan telephone Directory lists NAI KOSLOW,

Jeweler, 724 Fifth Ave., NYC, PL 7-2490. GIANCANA knows

KOSLOW and both PHYLLIS and GIANCANA have mentioned

his name in the past.

(1)

WILLIAMSON also advised that a (FNU) SIBILANO

(ph) has a furniture store in Chicago.

SIBILANO (ph) 1s

very friendly with all the hoodlums in Chicago and all the

big hoodlums buy their furniture and gifts from him.

WILLIAMSON has, in the past, observed TONY ACCARDI with

SIBILANO In Las Vegas.

SIBILANO was also with GIANCANA

in

Palm Springs,. Calif., In the past. (U):

WILLIAMSON advised that another close associate

Of GIANCANA 1S JOE (INU), an Italian from Chicago.

has never seen this JOE,

Springs, Arkansas, a year ago last spring. JOE's WIfe

is in an

insane asylum. While in Hot springs, PHYLLIS

attempted to have CHRISTINE go out with JOE, but CHRISTINE

declined. (V)

In the afternoon of 6/10/53, PCI VICTOR LA CROIX

COLLINS telephonically contacted the NYO and left the

message that SAM GIANCANA IS In NYC. (U)

The Bureau 1s requested to check the National:

Stolen Property Flle for any report of a stolen 27 carat

uncut stone which would be worth

between 2 hundred to 3

hundred thousand dollars. (U)

-

DocId: 32286805

Page 6

---

