# docid-32301065

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10277-10400

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-163

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/14/1965

7

MIRR, ACA, ALLEGED, BOMBING RAIDS, INFILTRATION,

CUBA, DONATIONS, PR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM, TTY

v9.1

DocId: 32301065

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONI

XENTIAL

1 - Mr. Nasca

1-18-65

CODE

TELETYPE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECEASVIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION Classified by

BBJAGCL

TO: SAC, MIAMI (105-2855)

IN THIS DOCUMENT K 7-29-g$eclassify on

OADR 9/16/85

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

REC: 1197-4474)- 163

SID HISR

8-19-91 (JFK)

MOVINIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

(MIRR), INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA, NEUTRALITY MATTERS,

REURAIRTEL JANUARY FOURTEEN LAST WITH ENCLOSURE. FURNISH

COPY ENCLOSURE TO FAA LOCALLY, "WASHINGTON POST" TODAY CARRIED

ITEM ORIGINATING MIAMI JANUARY SEVENTEEN LAST WHICH QUOTES

MIRR SPOKESIAN AS CLAIMING MIRR PLANES BONBED NIAGARA SUGAR MILL

WEATNET

ESTFIED

SHUAN

AND CANE FIELDS IN WESTERN CUBA ON JANUARY SEVENTEEN LAST.

SPOKESMAN CLAIMS MIRR NAVAL UNITS CARRIED OUT INFILTRATION

DURIATION

OPERATION INTO CUBA JANUARY THREE TO FIVE AND THAT ONE ARMS-LADEN

MIRR BOAT WAS INTENTIONALLY SUNK ON JANUARY SIX TO PREVENT ITS

FALLING INTO HANDS OF PURSUING CASTRO FORCES. DETERMINE IT

CIA HAS OPERATIONAL, INTEREST?")

IT SO, ADVISE BUREAU AND CONDUCT

123/911

rad/gel =211,326

- 8a

034

Tolson

Belmont an

Mohe

Del bach

Casper

Mullahan -

ZINFORMATION

Conradi

Sale

10s eng

Sullivan

VIN: gow gu

Pavell

Croker

Tele. Ri

(3),

EB

965 MAL

ROOM LE

to purses. (s to one tried ones unhe resemes

AGENCIES LOCALLY INCLUDING CUSTOMS, TAA AND INS FOR SUBSTANTIATING

INTORMATION AND

DETERMINE WHAT ACTION THEY MAY HAVE TAKEN

OR PLAN TO TAKE.

ALSO CHECK WITH LOGICAL SOURCES AND INFORMANTS

XILEY SOURCE EVELTO ALPIZAR FOR ANY

WOULD CORROBORATE

MIRR CLAIM AND WITH MN 492-S

VIA MIG

POETYPE

ĐECUA001100

S08 MAO GAT

9: 4718 1965

MSX

ENCIPHERE

TELETYPE UNIT IVA

TAC

DoCId: 32301065

Page 2

---

## Page 3

COI

ENTIAL

TEL YOU MEENAO ENSURECIONAL, DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

MOVINLENTO

(MIRR)

97-4474

AND OTHER SOURCES WHO MONITOR CUBAN BROADCASTS FOR ANY INDICATIOV

CUBANS HAVE ANNOUNCED RAID AND DUISUTT OF MERR CRATT AS INDICATED.

SPECIPICALLY ADVISE WHETHER RAID ANNOUNCED BY MIRR IS IDENTICAL

WITH PROPOSED RAID MENTIONED IN REAIRTEL, IF IDENCICAL, AND IF

RAID TOOK PLACT, ADVISE WHETHER MY 639-S PARTICIPATED AND WEY HE

DID NOT PROVIDE FURTHER DETAILS.

Китак гогот постити

BY AIRTEL WITH MEMORANDUM SUITABLE FOR DISSEMINATION ATTACHED,

note;

Captioned anti-Castro organization has previously been

involved in attempts to bomb Cuba. (RelMairtel 1-14-65 advised MIRR

planning bombing raid on Cuba for sonetine after 1-17-65. This

data was provided by MM 639-S who was asked to fly mission but

Pertinent information in this airtel has been desseminated-to

sted agencies.

Possibility exists MIRR gave press release for

propaganda and that no air or sea operations were conducted. If

there is any substance to MIRR claims, consideration will be given

to presenting facts to Department, if warranted, in line with our

established policy for determination as to whether full neutrality

investigation is desired.

- 2 -

18.2320

BAM

M/T440 COV.

40GGED BOY

CON-l

DENTIAL

BKm

1049°

DocId:32301065 Page 3

---

## Page 4

FD-36 (Re: 18-28-639

FBI

COMAPENTIAI

Date:

January 14; 1965

Transmit the following in .

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain texs or code)

USESi

Via -

AIRTEL

REGISTERED

REVIEWED BY FEIJFK TASK FORCE

(Priority)

ON 2/23/97 dak

$ RELEASE IN FULL

(97-4474)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: SAC, MIAMI

(105-2855)

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAI

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

(MIRR)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA;

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

FELEASE IN PARTICL

(P) 0

POTAL DENIAL

Declassily o

DADR 116/85

LEOM CONTAINED

AGAILED

2X0220 W22RE SHOWN

OTHERNISE

Enclosed herewith are 12 copies of letterhead

memorandum dated and captioned as above.

Copies are being disseminated locally to the

following agencies:

Border Patrol, and

1 7-1 18 1 639-8.7 0(4)

For the information of the Bureau, Mil 639-3

said he was asked by oRLaNdo Bosch, head of the mini, to

fly a bombing mission against Cuba.

BOSCH gave the informant

$60.00 expense money to locate a

suitable airplane to rent.

V. S. Customs, Miami, was immediately notified.

Customs requested they be advised as to the identity of the

plane, when it is rented,

and that agency would then

Bureau (Enc. 12) (RM)

Miami

RJD/neb

Copy: to: CIA/State/Rai

1sDia/IAS/FAA /USCE,Cutena

(3)

1-18-

oy rouing slip for Into

Date:

c c. Wickl

30& UCK

IT VAN 16 19651

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

CONTENTIAL

DocId: 32301065

Page 4

---

## Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

MM 105-2855

When the

plane picks up the bombs to go on a raid against Cuba,

Customs then will seize the plane, all articles of war,

and the vehicles at the scene.

Customs said no

arrest

will be made, and all persons involved will be interviewed.

Miami Office feels MM. 639-S will not be compromised

with the Cubans or Customs, and there is no danger for

Miami Office feels that the informant, in agreeing

to fly the bombing mission,

and being temporarily detained

by U. S. Customs, will solidily the informant's position

with BOSCH to the point of participating in future missions

and possibly gaining knowledge of BOSCH's extortion

activities. CAU

This matter is being closely followed with the

informant and U..S. Customs, and the Bureau will be kept

advised.

CONFIDENTAL

Justinin

DocId: 32301065 Page 5

---

