# docid-32307312

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10292-10015

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-35

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/26/1959

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

SGI, TEST, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32307312

Page 1

199

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FCRM NO. 64

Office Mes: ndum • UNITED

" GOVERNMENT

TO

N21 (92-2177)

FROM:

SAO, OMICAGO (92-342)

DATE: MURe 202 1

-1252

She MaT

KASS

SIDE

CLASS

12203

ACTION

SUBJECT:

SAMULL

GIANCANA, aka.

ANTI- RACKUTELRING

00:

CHICAGO

Incloses herewith are five copies of a

blind monorandum regarding SAMaL GIANCANA. 4

It is

reguestod that Moxico City attempt to

ascortain

the reasons for CIANCANA's recont visit

Hesi co

and vorify that he stayed aù the

Il-Presidento Motol.

Mesico City is also roguested

dotemino notizor the ecuse

brothers, 3D and Guond.,

policy operators

Chicago, ere

presently

112

this

255 area. (84) (4)

SUBJECT SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND

DANGEROUS:

spariate

6381gVeT/AG

AND PET A NETINES

Classitied by12.

Exempt from

Date of Declassification indefinate r.s.>

Buzoau (inci.

chicago

2:30

13)

2/11/85

7;

Spigak/oury.

Gparal 8-1128

AIT INE

MATTON CONTAINED

HERDITISERUIRSSITIED

SHeETI MILKE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

• APPROARIATE ANDACIES

AND FIFTO CARICES

ADVICHD 2%

:20.0

REQ-61 92-3111-35

82 JUN 291959

+IL.Nr1

PocId: 32307312

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

On June 17, 1959, Iony Horton, Potential Criminal

Informant, advised that he

has reason to

believe

that

Giancana and other syndicate members are attempting to

corner the bail bond business in Chicago and other large

cities.

In this connection, Horton was contacted by Mike

Broakin, a syndicate lawyer

in Chicago, in order to feel

out his,

che intormants,

attitude toward allowing the

outfit to take over the bonding business of the colored

section in Chicago.

In order to do this, it would become

necessary for Giancana to visit with Ed and Georgestones, b

former Negro policy wheel operators on Chicago's South

Side,, who are now in Mexico City.

The informant said that

Mexico! According to the informant, Jones has been to ikk

switzerland on frequent occasions, but he does not know for

what reason.

SUBJECT SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND

DANGEROUS.

4

2

DocId: 32307312

Page

3

---

