# docid-32304393

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10286-10023

HQ

92-2918-SEE COMMENTS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

SAC, PG

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/19/1963

PAGES: 28

SUBJECTS :

*SMO, GM, JURY, TRIAL, INCOME TAX EVASION, ASSOC,

CRIMINAL ACT, P/P, B/F INT, MED/PERS HIST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

92-2918- 1ST NR 143,2ND NR 143,3RD NR 143,144,145, INC 2 A/T, 2 RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32304393

Page 1

---

## Page 2

-----=

FD-268 (RAy. 31•59)

FEDERA_ BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

PITTSBURGH

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

PITTSBURGH

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka.

DATE

2/17/54

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/19/63 - 2/12/64

REPORT MADE BY

THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED BY

alb

REFERENCES

Pittsburgh letter to New York,

Pittsburgh, 12/19/63.

-₽ -

ENCLOSURES

To Bureau (2): Two copies of a letterhead memorandum,

dated 2/17/64, In which informants used in

this report are characterized.

LEADS

PITTSBURGH

COPIES MADE:

AT PITTSBURGH, PA. (ALLEGHENY COUNTY)

1.

Will report results of lead to New York City

to check with Security Exchange Commission regarding subject's

activities in connection with stock of American Univend

eprporation, New York City

4-Bureau (92-2918) (Enet, z)

1-USA, Pittsburgh

2-Pittsburgh (92-228)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2918-145

FE8 40 1954

REC 12

80I-X3

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

NOTATIONS

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. ..

HOW FWIS. .

BY.

FEb 471964

DocId: 32304393 Page 2

A -

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

18-75324-1

COVER PAGE

---

## Page 3

PG 92-228

2. Will continue to follow and report activities

of subject and his associates in accordance with Bureau

instructions.

ADMINISTRATIVE

This report has been

slightly delayed due to the

preoccupation of the preparing Special Agent with other

pressing matters in connection with the Criminal Intelligence

PEER, Such as the case captioned, "CHARLES FREDERICK

TEEMER,

aka, ET AL, ITAR-GAMBLING.

During the period of this report, liaison has been

closely maintained with Intelligence Division, Internal

Revenue Service, Pittsburgh, which has

a current invests -

gation underway

regarding

this sublect.

INFORMANTS®

I symbols utilized in this report will be the

same, where applicable, as those used in reports back to,

and including, that of

July, 1961:

PG T-3 1s PG 615-C.

PG T-50 is PCI MARION I. WIGLE, who furnished

information to SA JAMES B. FANNING.

PG T-56 is PG 707-C.

- B* -

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32304393

Page

3

---

## Page 4

=r.:

(Rev 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVL STIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

PITTSBURGH

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

PITTSBURGH

DATE

12/19/63

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

9/17-12/18/63

REPORT MADE BY

THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III

CHARACTER OF CASE

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka.

AR

TYPED BY

ear

REFERENCES:

Report of SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III, Pittsburgh,

9/24/63.

Pittsburgh airtel to Bureau, 11/22/63.

_P -

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU

in which informants used in this report are

In ote formanterted me dan ate 22/29/630/

characterized.

LEAD

PITTSBURGH

AT PITTSBURGH, PA. (ALLEGHENY COUNTY)

Will follow and report activities of subject and his

assogiates in accordance with

Bureau instructions.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE! /

Ral

SPEC CALARGENT

92-29/81

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

144

Bureau

4- USA, Pittsburgh

(92-2918) (Encled)

2 - Pittsburgh (92-228)

10 DEG 20 1963

REC- 16

AGENCY_..

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. -..

HOW FWD..

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

/- Dekt 12/30/63

NOTATIONS

2%2

U.S. GOVERNHENT PRINTING OFFICE

18-76324-1

zccdrd

DocId: 32304393 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-228

ADMINISTRATIVE

As the Bureau was advised by reairtel, this

report has been delayed in order to obtain the results of

the trial in U. S. District Court, Pittsburgh, of subject,

his brother, and their associates

on charges

of income tax

fraud and evasion, plus conspiracy.

During the period of this report, liaison has

been closely maintained with Intelligence Division, Internal

Revenue Service, Pittsburgh, which has an investigation

underway regarding this subject.

By radiogram, 11/19/63, Pittsburgh advised the

Bureau that on 11/18/63 PCI ANTHONY JOHN WISE, JR.,

advised SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III, as follows:

On that date at about 4:30 P.M., SAM MANNARINO

stated "they" intended to try to get to Mrs. BROWN, wife

of Allegheny County Judge HOMER S. BROWN, who had been

selected to the jury in U.S. District Court, Pittsburgh,

that day. MANNARINO said

the BROWNs had a daughter who

was going with the son of PAUL LONG, Pittsburgh Radio and

Television News Commentator, and the approach would be

made through PAUL LONG.

When asked how he knew LONG would

go for the deal, MANNARINO laughingly said he was positive

LONG would go for it. ?

It is noted that Judge BROWN and his wife,

Mrs. WILHELMINA B. BROWN, are of the Negro race, and the

PAUL LONG family is Caucasian.

The above information was furnished to U.S.

Attorney GUSTAVE DIAMOND, Pittsburgh, who was scheduled to

commence presentation of the Government case against subjects

on November 19, 1963,

on charges of income tax evasion.

USA DIAMOND requested

that no active investigation be made

to prove or disprove the above allegation at that time for

B

COVER PAGE

8619026

DocId: 32304393

Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-228

fear of jeopardizing the

case, but he suggested that contact

be maintained with the Pittsburgh Office source (PCI WISE)

in an effort to ascertain whether or not attempts to contact

Mrs. BROWN had been made and if they had been successful.

On 11/21/63, PCI WISE advised SA FORSYTH as follows:

On 11/20/63, SAM MANNARINO stated that the "contact"

had been made with "Judge BROWN's wife."

MANNARINO did not

indicate that the results of the contact had been successful

from his point of view and, in fact, appeared to be deeply

worried about the outcome of the trial.

MANNARINO changed

part of his story in that he now referred to Judge

BROWN's son going with the daughter of PAUL LONG, rather

than BROWN's daughter going with LONG's son, as had been

previously stated.

The above information was furnished to USA GUSTAVE

DIAMOND, Pittsburgh, on 11/21/63.

No further

information regarding the above

allegations was furnished by PCI or any other source.

INFORMANTS

where applicable,

that of July, 1961:

PG T-2 is PG 612-C.

PG I-54 is PG 620-C.

including.

C*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32304393

Page 6

---

## Page 7

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI.

Date:

11/22/63

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or.code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO :

Director, FBI (92-2914) (92-2918)

From: SAC, Pittsburgh (92-236) (92-228) (p)

Subject:

GABRIEL MANNARINO, aka

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka

AR

00 - Pittsburgh

Remyrad 11/19/63 and Buairtel 11/20/63.

On 11/21/63, _PCI ANTHONY JOHN WISE, Jr. advised

SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III as follows:

On 11/20/63, SAM MANNARINO stated that the "contact"

has been made with "Judge Brown's wife."

MANNARINO did

not indicate that the results of the contact had been

successful from his point of view and, in fact, appears to

be deeply worried about the outcome of the trial. MANNARINO

changed one part of his story in that he now referred to

Judge BROWN's son going with the daughter of PAUL LONG,

rather than BROWN's daughter going with LONG's son, as had

been previously stated.

The above information was furnished to USA GUSTAVE

DIAMOND, Pittsburgh, Pa.; on 11/21/63.

The trial of the MANNARINOS In USDC, Pittsburgh,

on income tax fraud and

evasion charges, is estimated by

USA DIAMOND to be about half over and may be concluded by

11/29/63.

Although a report is slightly past due in each

of the MANNARINO cases, Pittsburgh will, in the interest

of continuity, delay the reports until the conclusion of the

trial VACB.

92: -2918

C C- Wick,

SUBJECTS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS:

NOT RECORDED

Bureau

MAU ALONGY 2$ 19033

Pittsburgh

TGF : mzw

2.

(6)

VOEC

Special Aged

Sent

- M

Per

in Charge

DocId: 32304393

Page 7

ORIGINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 8

4517-63)

3 AIRGRAM

DECODED

• CABLEGRAM XXXRADIO

• TELETYPE

Tolson

3: Belmonut

Casper -

Caljahan

Evans

Gale

Rosen L

Sullivan':

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes

Candy

5

URGENT

11-19-63

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC. PITTSBURGH

191745

ANTIRACKDTEKRING

GABRIEL MANNARINO, AKA, AR.

SAMUEL WANNAR INO, AXIA, APR

ON NOVEMBER 18 LAST, SELECTION OF A JURY WAS MADE AT

COMMENCEMENT OF TRIAL OF MANNARINO BROTHERS AND THEIR ASSOCIATES

ON CHARGES OF INCOME TAX FRAUD AND EVASION.

•ON NOVEMBER 18 LAST, POI ANTHONY JOHN WISE, UR., ADVISED

SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, 111, AS FOLLOWS:

ON THAT DATE AT ABOUT 4:30 PM, SAM MANNARINO STATED THEY

INTENDED TO TRY TO GET TO MRS. BROWN, WIFE OF ALLEGHENY COUNTY

JUDGE HOMER S. BROWN, WHO HAD BEEN SELECTED TO THE JURY IN

USDO, PITTSBURGH, THAT DAY. MANNARINO SAID THE BROWNS HAD AS

DAUGHTER WHO IS GOING WITH THE SON OF PAUL LONG, PITTSBURGH:,

RADIO AND TELEVISION. NEWS COMMENTATOR, AND THE APPROACH: WOULD

BE MADE THROUGH PAUL LONG. WHEN ASKED HOW HE KNEW LONG WOULD GO

FOR THE DEAL, MANNARINO LAUGHINGLY SAID HE WAS POSITIVE. LONG:

WOULD GO FOR IT. IT. IS NOTED THAT JUDGE BROWN AND HIS WIFE;

MRS. WILLHELMINA B. BROWN, ARE OF THE NEGRO RACE AND THE PAUL

LONG FAMILY IS CAUCASIAN

THE ABOVE INFORMATION HAS BEEN

FURNISHED TO USA GUSTAVE DIAMOND, PITTSBURGH, WHO WILL COMMENCE

PRESENTATION OF THE GOVERNMENT CASE AGÄINST SUBJECT ON NOVEMBER

INSTANT, ON CHARGES OF INCOME TAX EVASION.

USE DIAMOND REQUESIEU

THAT NO ACTIVE INVESTIGATION BE MADE TO PROVE OR DISPROVE THE

ABOVE ALLEGATION AT THIS TIME FOR FEAR OF JEOPARDIZING. THE CASE

19

1/ 53

airtel scat to fig

10/19/63

2918

NOT RECORDED

136

NOV 26. 1963

6 B

Hov 2 19

Or the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau,

it is suggested that it be suitably:

"paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32304393

Page 8

---

