JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

v9.l
DocId:32301206 Page 1

21

Date:

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10278-10041
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 92-2914-261
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, PG
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: — 02/23/1962
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
GM, SMO, TRA, CG, IL, TEST, ASSOC, JRM, WIT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 08/10/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

5/28/201



a te 2 ana fy Seecereosaveroso-Pssr0-—<-oseeeneees/-ensbnesessocOcCeeEbesSceeeeeenbeLeCeesEEEeE

A

‘= OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
‘3OLgrI04~ON, ee

UNIZED STATES/’ “OVERNMENT

Memorundum

To  : DIRECTOR, FBI io) DATE: = 2/23/62
* 92-2918

(6 : SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-236)
eee 92-228

oe :
supject: { GABRIEG“MANNARINO, aka

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka

ae AR
Remyairtel 2/5/62, and reBuairtel 2/7/62.
On 2/19/62, Special Agent JOHN SHWARTZ, Intelligence Division,

IRS, Pittsburgh, Pa., advised SA THOMAS G,. FORSYTH III as
follows:

SCHWARTZ was in Chicago, Illinois 2/14-16/62, awaiting his
turn to testify as a Government witness in the case "BERNARD :

J. EZHAYA, et al; ITSP-MT." AUSA MANIQ) Chicago, told
SCHWARTZ that he expects to use JQ: ,» Former Miami [LL 9
CI, as a witness for th overnment, “and it is fully believed —~ 7

that defendant WILLIAWRABIN, will take the stand and impli- a
cate his co-defenaarts, including SAMUEL MANNARINO. 1LL ,
oo vl
It is noted that both MEROLA and RABIN ‘have been associates ‘
and friends of the MANNARINOS for many years. The above a]
information from Schwartz was furnished the same day by SA i
FORSYTH to Departmental Attorney JOHN MULLANEY.
f » lal
MULLANEY stated that he believe at it would be better to ee
postpone the interview of DANIERMHANNA at Federal Penitentiary, a
Lewisburg, Pa., until after MEROLM-and"RABIN testify. He g
said he felt that the testimony of these two men might be ie
a selling point with HANNA to: demonstrate that others were Re

"turning on the MANNARINOS to save themselves."

CU
@ Burress oy Ae
—- Pwivadarphnva (92-558) (Info i:
pee aS SbUHED 92-236 ' ' Ne wa G/
2-228). & ae

_
Gz 2G.

ne 3m

9g ObbL oe weLice so FEB 27 fe
! L : ee sap x te
| : a 2 ts Wee
i : ae
\ ; O WAn 1052 Ch
arate 10
ve 6 . : : g Y7- —

DocId:32301206 Page 2


PG 92-236
PG 92-228

In view of the above, Pittsburgh will hold the HANNA interview
in abeyance until it can be determined that MEROLA and/or
RABIN have in fact testified against SAMUEL MANNARINO,

DocId:32301206 Page 3

