# docid-32309717

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10300-10083

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-75147-29-723

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

01/31/1958

• PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS:

NRO, ASSOC, CRIM ACT, GAMBLING ACT, HOODLUMS, MM,

CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32309717

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. 61

Office Memorandum

TO

.. UNITED

ATTENTION:

Mr. Tolaf

GOVERNMBNT

Mr. Minn

Mr. Neasa

3Mr 1958

Mi. Rosen

Mr.

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR

As.

Mr.

ROSEN

Clayton

Tele. Ruin

Mr. Holluman.

Miss Gandy-

38 м

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN ISWACLASSIFIED

EXCEPI NHLAD SHOWN

OTHERMISE

SAC, Miami (62-1273).

MIANA WINTER SEASON,

1957-1958,

GENERAL INVESTIgATIVE

CRIMINAL SECTION,

INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION. Intelligenee file

ReBulet 9/18/57.

chier of roLice

MARTIN DARDIS, North Bay Viflage

advised he arrested RUBIN WEINER, Miami Beach PD Number

7666, for vagrancy at the Treasure Iste Motel, North Bay

aMvillages as previously reported in Miami letter to the

Bureau January 17, 1950,, and again arrested him at the

sale motel on January 21, 1950, for bookmaking. DARDIS

an investigator from

the Florida

Hotel Commission and: Investigators from the State's Attorney

He said that when WEINER

was arrested on the first occasion the officials of the

Treasure Isle Motel were informed that WEINER had been

bookmaking on their premises, and they were requested to

see that WEINER terminated his residence there; He fur-

ther stated that the officials of the motel did not ask

WEINER to move and condoned his bookmaking operations:

which resulted in the second arrest of WEINER.

DARDIS mentioned that WEINER, on the second occa-

sion, was

charged only with bookmaking, although he was

2

also engaged in running a dice game at the motel.

DARDIS

related that the Florida Hotel

Commission is considering

the revokation of the license of the Treasure Isle Motel

for thirty to sixty days for permitting WEINER to remain

as a guest.at the motel and also permitting him to operate

as a bookmaker.

This information he said was furnished to

the officials of the

motel who have since been considering,

4 - Bureau

2 - Miami

62-25147-29-723

34

RFF : GK

PET

(6)

Lo. coples made an t

2-12128 ISGLike

di. Kitte

Por review at eBTHQ by

7794762-1172901

5 7 FEB 28 1958

21

18 FEB gl 1958

124,326

Classifer By SPEBTAGAL

id.

Declas

en: OADRY alES

CONFDENTIAN

DocId: 32309717 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIPENTIAL

MM: 62-1273

various means to have the matter squashed. DARDIS related

Y HARRX KASSER, De of the owners of charyns Restaurant and

''s Kestaurant ail

Cocktail Lounge, North Bay Village, to determine 1f he,

DARDIS, could be approached with a

proposition. LASSER indi-

that he was acting as a middle man in an

effort to get

this matter squashed.

DARDIS commented that his sergeant

told him a sum of $15,000.00 would be paid to DARDIS if he

would see to it that the matter was dropped. DARDIS also

said his sergeant learned from LASSER that LASSER was acting

in behalf of

owner of the Treasure Isle Motel.

He remarked that his sergeant has set up another meeting with

LASSER and at that time LASSER will be told that DARDIS will

only talk to SCHLAR regarding the matter.

DARDIS further stated that he has discussed the

matter with DANIEL. ?. SULLIVAN, Operating Manager of the

Miami Crime Commission, and the State's Attorney's Office.

He said the State's Attorney's Office is making plans to

secure adequate evidence with the view toward prosecuting

SCHLAR should he make the $15,000.00 offer to DARDIs per-

sonally.

DARDIS also advised that another similar payoff

¡proposition is beginning to move beyona the rumor stage..

said one of his men was approached by one TOMNIL THOMPSON,

whose identity or background is unknown to DARDIS, Las to the

amount of money that would bereded to pay off the Chief of

Police so that gambling would be permitted at the Harbor

Spa Hotel, North Bay Village. DARDIS related this proposi-

tion is moving much slower than the one previously explained,

and as a result he is concentrating on the Treasure Isle

deal and hopes to obtain satisfactory evidence for prosecu-

tion of SCHLAR.

DARDIS is a new Chief of Police at North Bay Vil-

lage and a former New York state trooper.

SAMUEL SCHLAR

is originally from Chicago and the Treasure Isle Motel has

been regarded as a criminal hangout.

POTENTIAL CRIMINAL INFORMANT

SID WILD, PCI, advised that he observed ABE

(SISKIN..

ja detective of the Miami Beach police force, enter the

grocery store of SALVATORE FALCONE in Miami

carrying a small

envelope. He said ZISKIN 'immediately went into the back room

lof this establishment, indicating that he had previously been

FBI# 1691194

бо .

Nolai

FLii

CON-DENTIAL

DocId: 32309717

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONTDENTIAL

MM: 62-1273

in the store, knew his way around, and was acquainted with

the personnel.

FALCONE has. FBI Number 1697794 and is a

I Top Hoodlum of the Miami Division.

Captain JOHN CONNORS, Hialeah Police Department,

advised that KNOX RUGGLES, a Hialeah policeman, was shot

and

seriously wounded on January 24, 1950, in a gun battle with

CURLEY EDISON ESTES, an ex-convict who robbea and terrorized

patrons at the Politician Bar in Hialeah. He related ESTES

was also wounded in the left leg and was apprehended a short

time later in Miami Springs:

ESTES has been charged with

armed robbery and attempted murder.

The "Miami Herald" newspaper of January 24, 1958,

reported that lie detector tests were ordered for five mem-

bers of the Coral Gables Traffic Bureau on January 23, 1958,

after a discrepancy of $10.00 was noted between the amount

turned in to the Traffic Bureau and the amount paid by an

individual who violated a traffic ordinance.

The article

related that RICHARD N.XRACO of Miami violated a traffic

regulation and produced a receipt for $35.00 written by

DOOLEY, Coral Gables Police Department,

on a

slip of plain white paper.

RACO was skeptical of the re-

ceipt because it was not written on a printed receipt form.

The receipt was charged against the summons on file at the

PoLice Department and it was louna that only a 52b.00

fine was recorded.

The article indicated that there was

evidence of erasure on the ticket in the Police Department,

which altered the offense from driving sixty miles an

hour in a twenty-five mile zone, to fifty miles an hour.

This article pointed out that the penalty for a sixty

mile violation, was $35.00 and the penalty for a fifty mile

violation was $25.00.

Chief WILLIAM G. KIMBROUGH, according to the

article, stated Patrolman DOOLEY's work sheet reflected a

sixty-mile-an-hour entry, which apparently clears DOOLEY.

The five employees, according to KIMBROUGH, who agreed to

the lie detector tests had access to the Coral Gables

Traffic Bureau cash register.

KIMBROUGH also commented

with respect to the receipt issued by DOOLEY that the

(Department had run out of regular receipt forms.

CRIMINAL RACKET ACTIVITIES

MM 369-S advised the National Labor Relations Board

nearing was reld on January 14, 1958, at Miami relative to aff)

N-5-

CONNDENTIAL

DocId: 32309717 Page 4

---

