# docid-32260782

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

10/14/20

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10104-10340

RECORD SERIES : NUMBERED FILES.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 009378

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

HSCA

LOUISANA METRO. CRIME COMMISSION.

TITLE : METROPOLITAN CRIME COMMISSION.

DATE : 04/11/1978

PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS :

ORGANIZED CRIME.

LOUISANA METROPOLITAN CRIME COMMISSION, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE : SUMMARY.

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 11/20/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 172.

v9.1

NW 55923

DocId: 32260782

Page

---

## Page 2

ORR

4/11/78

METROPOLITAN CRIME COMMISSION

FILE

California - criminal organizations: Places.

For references to:

D'Alton Smith

. Jim Braden

Article

- date uncertain in file as of 9/1/74

Bill Hazlett - author; "San Diego - It's a New

Mother Lode to Mafia Bosses" - Los Angeles Times.

Article names Mafia members operating

in the San Diego area.

This includes:

Allan M. Dorfman - Teamster ties

Louis (Chow the Tailor) Rosanora

Anthony Spilatro

John (Jackie the Lackey) Cerone

Harry Hall, 55, AKA Harry Helfgot and Harry Haler.

L.A. Consultant for Hoover Gorin, a small Las

Vegas PR outfit which won a $1.3

million-a-year

contract to improve image of Teamster's Union.

Hall made frequent trips to S. Diego, until he

was taken to serve sentence for using stolen

securities in a bank fraud.

Acquitted earlier in Chicago on charges of

transporting stolen Treasury notes valued at

$175,000 after he claimed to be an informant

Hall had

actually tried to sell part of the

$6 million in securities stolen from the United

Bank of Calif. in Laguna Niguel during a 1972

burglary.

Other recent visitors with Organized

Crime ties include N.y. Mafia bos Joseph (Joe

Bananas) Bonanno and Salvatore (Bill) Bonanno, ,

his son.

Dalton (formerly D'Alton) Smith and William Schley

AKA Lloyd William Sakley indicted on charges involving

fradulent loans from United Calif. Bank. Both men also

under investigation in Louisiana, according to Aaron

Kohn.

Kohn said Smith was indicted by E. Baton Rouge

Grand jury in 1967 on charges of attempting to bribe

an aide to then Gov. John J. McKeithen in a $2 million

scheme to free Teamster boss Hoffa from federal custody.

Scheme, reportedly engineered by Carlos Marcello,

NW 55923 DocId: 32260782 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Notes:

Metro Crime Commission

2

NAME

FILE:

Marcello

Newsday Clips - Tom Rennas

2/28/74

- Penthouse - March 1975 - "La Costa"

Authors - Lowell Bergman and Leff Gerth

Rancho La Costa - run by Moe Dalitz mob.

La Costa regulars include

Allen

Dorfman - spec. consultant to

Teamsters Pension Fund who was

convicted

of kickbacks; currently

under indictment

Jim Braden - (Eugene Hale Brading), mob

courier & "lovebird Swindler"

Anthony Giacolone - mob boss in Detroit

Louis Rosanova - Chicago mobster now

headquartered in Georgia.

Anthony Spilatro - "

-Criminal Division - Henry E. Peterson

Asst. Atty. General (from the "Annual Report of the

Attorney General for 1972)

p. 91. Significant prosecutions-

Five (5) organized crime figures convicted of

securities and mail fraud:

John Lambardozz;,

member of the Gambino syndicate living in Miami;

Hilmer B, Sandine; Leslie S. Zacharias; Samuel

Benton; William F. Hamilton. Defendents involved

in a scheme to distribute stock in Picture Island

Computer Corp.

p. 93.

Meyer Lansky and Associates Dino Cellini's

were indicted on substantive and

conspiracy

charges of income tax evasion.

NA 55923

Doold: 32260702 Page 3

---

## Page 4

....

Notes: Metro Crime Commission

3

FILE:

BENTON NAME FILE

No references to Sam Benton except 1972 Atty.

*General's report, previously cited.

- Wall St. Journal 5/2/72 "Six Go on Trial Today on

Alleged Promotion of Worthless Company".

Samuel Benton, "a Miami promoter", named as one

of Sam's co-defendents in trial on charges they tried

to distribute millions

of shares of leisure sources

Ltd., formerly Picture Island Computer Corp., a

• Miami

concern that falsely claimed 51$ million in

assets.

NW 55923

DocId: 32260782

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Notes:

Metro Crime Commission

4

FILE:

BECKLEY: Criminal organization

(Beckley--deceased)

- States 6/27/61 "U.S. Smashes Giant Betting Ring; Indict

five Orleanians"

Gilbert Lee Beckley of Surfside, Calif. listed as

one of 13 indicted in what IRS called

a crackdown

on the biggest national

conspiracy of gambling in

many

years.

- Sunday Oklahoman, Oklahoma City, OK 6 July '75.

By Jack Taylor - "Release sought by Mafia Bookie".

Eugene Anthony Nolan, bookmaker who has close

ties with Cosa Nostra family headed by Mañello,

seeking release from prison after harsh sentence

in case in which co-defendant was Leroy Dale

Hines, Tulsa bookie. Nolan-part of large scale

bookmaking ring controlled by Marcello's mob

thru lay-off service run by Marcello's lieutentnts.

That ring featured Sam DiPiazza of New Orleans,

used by Hines for honse: race layoffs, and Gilbert

Lee Beckley of New York and Miami, with whom Nolan

later lived until Beckley disappeared, the suspected

victim of a mob murder.

- Baton Rouge Morning Advocate - "BR man among 13 U.S.

Indicts in Betting Case", AP, 6/28/61.

Reported

as Attorney General Kennedy's Ist breakthru

of Organized Crime gambling.

Eugene A. Nolan of Baton Rouge indicted; Gilbert

Lee Beckley of Surfside, Fla; Sam Diprazza, Louis

E. Baynens of Arabia, La.

-New Orleans states Item - March 5, 1970

"Nine Indicted in Stolen Bond

Investigation"--

by James M. Markham.

Gilbert Lee Beckley, 58, one of 9 indicted by

federal Grand Jury on charges of conspiracy

and transporting various stolen and counterfeit

securities worth $1.8 million across several

state lines. Also reported to have helped

federal authorities investigate Cosa Nostra

infiltration of professional athletics.

NW 55923 DocId: 32260782 Page 5

---

## Page 6

...

Notes: Metro Crime Commission

5

- Atlanta Constitution 10/29/69 Bill Shipp

"Slaton Lauds Wiretap"

Slaton-Fulton

Lewis Slaton of Atlanta-noted

an indictment involving an illegal credit card is

now pending against "Gilbert Lee.

Beckley (The Brain),

57, OF NiY. Beckly allegedly one of 2 men: who had

taken control of a thriving illegal lottery company in

Atlanta.

- Letter of 11/3/61 from Joseph 1. Glarrusso,

Superintendent of Police to Mr. Robert E. Rightmyer,

Contains info from source - uncorroborated.

Sam DiPiazza - reportedly involved in both interstate

and intro-state illegal gambling activities. Allegedly

gives a cut of his operation to Carlos Marcello thru

meetings of DiPiazza's wife

and "Sammy" Marcello,

Carlos' brothers.

DiPiazza's operation one of largest

illegal "lay-off" book makings operations in the U.s.

It is a toss-up, as to who is bigger--his or Gil Beckley's

of Miami.

Close liaison between DiPiazza and Beckley

and another

person known as Eugene Nolan of New Orleans.

Reported

that New. Orleans Athletic Club is DiPiazza's main base

of operations as recently as September '67 and is

believed to be a bigger operator from that location then

Sammy Marcello, also reportedly headquartered

there.

there.

Two persons, Joseph Barrogona and "Buck" Diaz are

representatives of DiPiazza

in his book making enterprise,

Mr. Barogona claims his livelihood as that of a salesman

for The Continental Produce Co., #95 French Market Place.

Both Bargona and Diaz are reportedly "booking" from

the pay telephones at the Fontainebleau Motor Hotel as

recently as Tues., Oct. 31, 1967. Baragona positions

himself in the kitchen

of

the Fontainebleau during the

morning hours, representing himself as a produce salesman.

Sammy Marcello, in addition to being a "messenger"

between the DiPiazzas and his brother, Carlos, Sammy

Marcello has the primary base of operations in

Jefferson

Park at the Mi-Roller Stag Bar. Sammy Marcello is

also alleged to be personally operating out of New Orleans

Athletic Club as recently as one week ago.

NW 55923 DooId: 32260782 Page 6

---

## Page 7

...

Notes: Metro Crime Commission

6

Nolan believed to be operating with father-in-law

Jake

Atz - illegal booking operations.

Carlos Marcello - frequently visits the horse

farm

in Covington, La.

- Memo for file 1/23/68 by Aaron M. Kohn.

Re: Nolan, Beckley

News report re: Beckley, Nolan--

Nolan picked up in New

York with 21 others in

what has been called $100 million per year

bookmaking operation. Nolan and Beckley--two of

biggest gamblers in the country. Betting on

Athletic events.

- States on Dec. 19, 1967, "No man held as Bookie

King Freed on Bond."

Nolan arrested by Garrison investigators.

DA said

investigation of Nolan jeopardized by "irresponsible"

actions of Metro Crime Commission Director Kohn.

Commission had been surveilling Nolan, but investigator

was caught with binoculars by Nolan.

Kohn jailed week

prior for 18 hrs. for refusing to tell Orleans Grand

Jury the name of a confidential informant who reported

Nolan was operating a bookie ring in New Orleans.

NW 55923

DocId: 32260782

Page

7

---

## Page 8

.:.

Notes: Metro Crime Commission

7

FILE

HINES: Name File

- Sunday Oklahoman - Oklahoma City, OK 11/16/75

"Bookie King Bids Adieu" by Jack Taylor.

Repts.

Hines moving operation from Tulsa,

where he had operated since 1946 after

reportedly working in a Cuba Casino for.

Meyer Linsky, to Las Vegas.

Names Beckley of Salerno for Genovese mob, (Tier, NY)

as big name bookie with whom he dealt,

Nolan,

Dirazza of Marcello mob.

- Nolan's

attornty Pattick

J. Malloy III of Tulsa.

NW

55923

DocId: 32260782

Page

8

---

## Page 9

Notes: Metro Crime Commission

8

FILE

SMITH, D'ALTON

- Extradition Proceeings

Criminal Organization.

- From Statement of Pack

People vs Dalton Carl Smith, Lorne Girletz,

and Charles Burden

May 8 & 14, 1968

Matter involves a defrauding of a stock brokerage

firm by the name of Paine, Webber, Jackson and

Curtis.

Eleven fictitious checks

of non-existent

accounts for

a total amount of $382,719.73 were

written upon the accounts of the above-mentioned

stock brokerage firm between 12/11/67 and 12/20/67.

This fraud was accomplished by the machination of

a margin clerk named David Glen McDonald as part of

the conspiracy with the above mentioned suspects and

others.

- Remainder of Dalton Smith extradition papers.

FILE: Smith, D'Alton - Criminal Organization

DC-7 8/31/76

- Extract from transcript of Louis J. Roussel testimony,

4/10/70, SEC investigation re: S. Mort Zimmerman, Miami

- Admits he is a friend of Carlos Marcello.

Did not know Dalton Smith, but knew his

May e110.

brother, Senator A.D. Smith.

"I wish

we had more room in the bank for

people like Carlos Marcello, though,

the

way he pays his loans...

"Does he put up collateral?

Absolutely.

Plenty of collateral."

- Smith - Deceased

NN 55923 DooId: 32260782 Page 9

---

## Page 10

...

Notes: Metro Crime Commission

9

- Handwitten notes re: Smith FBI #290-927G

4/22/74

File Briefing by AMK

Con-man, deals in stolen securities, operates

various complex frauds for profit

Definite ties

to Marcello; also sisters are

Mrs. Nofio Pecora and Mrs. Joseph Poretto.

1/11/68 Arrested for attempted bribery of Aubrey

Young, Gov. McKeithen's Security Chief, and

indicated.

National Notoriety; also charged

with bribary of Edward Grady Partive - Re:

Jimmy Hoffa case.

' 69

Smith uses A.D. Smith Construction Co.,

as front for promoting complicated Pops

festival

fraud. First National Bank of Denham

Springs involved. Also worthless life insurance

policies

and other phoney assets used to get

credits.

9/1/72

Gov. Edwards announced reappointed Mrs.

Frances

Smith to La. Insurance Rating Commission.

'73

Convicted of defrauding SBA Of $350,000.

L.A. County Grand Jury.

"counts of grand theft, one of

conspiracy - $382,000 check swindle

of securities fraud? Alleged bribery

of Judge Malcolm O'Hara to block

extradition from La. Burden convicted,

Smith freed."

2/69

Smith involved in aborted plot, also

involving syndicate figure to bribe officials to

get a State sweepstakes lottery.

12/8/58 SBA loan to Smith's Mojave Electric Co.,

Langston, Calif.. $75,000 defaulted.

5/19/71 SBA $350,000 loan to Smith's American western

Plastics Corp, Denver, thru First National Bank

of Clovis, New Mexico. Convicted '73.

' 65

SBA

(Pecora)

gave Smith's sister and brother-in-law

$187,500 loan guaranty.

'71

Revealed that Smith hadn't filed U.s. income

tax returns for at least 7 years.

He looted deceased brothers' A.D. Construction

Co. of about $1.8 million.

NW 55923 DocId: 32260782 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Notes: Metro Crime Commission

10

Jan. 70

Smith convicted in U.S. District Court, I.A.

18 counts, interstate transport of stolen and

forged securities.

Leroy Gordon Cooper, retired

astronaut and a director of Smith's Telstar, Inc.

interviewed with Judge on behalf of Smith.

Smith

sold 2 companies he didn't own.

(1)

AD:.. Construction Co., NO, sold in

March to Comutrix Corp., Miami for

$250,000 shares of Comutrix stock

without knowledge of Construction co.

- No identification for report on Smith

DOB: 8/27/24 5'7" 225 lbs.

brown hair, green eyes, ruddy complexion

FBI #290927G; NOPD #131-685

Dealer (fence) in stolen bonds, stocks and other

securities which he sometimes uses to pledge against

loans he receives in his construction business.

Owner-operator of A.D. Smith Construction Co.,

2818 St. Louis St., N.O. La. Arrested 1/11/68 for

bribery in connection with an attempt to bribe

Edward Grady Partin, who was a gov't witness in

a

case

against Teamster's Pres. Jimmy Hoffa.

After

a

dismissal, which allegedly involved Judy Malcolm

O'Hara, Carlos Marcello, and $100,000. There was

a retrial under

a

new statue and Smith was acquitted.

One of the jurors in the case reportedly record

death threat during the trial and was released.

Frances Smith Pecora, sister of Dalton Smith, is

wife of Nofio Joseph Pecora,

FBI #057 660. Another

sister, Mary Smith Poretto, is wife of Organized

Crime

figure and close assoc. of Carlos Marcello,

Joseph Albert Poretto.

- Letter from Chief of Police R. L. Hoobler

City of San Diego to Aaron Kohn 8/2/73

Re: Dalton Smith, Joseph Merola.

Smith - SSN: L

JFK Act 6 (3)

Residence: 8515 Cliffridge Ave., La Jolla

Business: Algermon, Inc.

7744 Fay

St., La Jolla

(General Manager)

NW 55923 DocId: 32260782 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Notes: Metro Crime Commission

11

Joseph Raymond Merold

Aka Joseph Maurice; Joseph Menola

w/m; DOB: 10/9/25 (Pittsburg, PA)

5'11"

220lbs brn/brn

FBI #4989 299

SSN: 191-14-1649

Address: 730 N.E. 120 St. Miami, Fla.

Business: Owner, Salesman and Licensed Pilot

Opa LocKa Aviation, Inc.

Bldg. 407, Opa Locka Airport, Fla.

- 3/3/73 information received Merola in S. Diego for

express purpose of committing armed robbery.

Merola

contacted and arrested for possession of Narcotics

that evening.

At the time of his arrest, Merola

stated that he was in San Diego to meet with Dalton

Smith and form corporation called Algemon. Stated

he had been in San Diego on numerous previous

occasions.

Norma said, Merola's long time girl friend, accompaned

Merola.

Merola subsequently in daily contact with

Dalton Smith.

Merola arrived in San Diego 2/18/72, left for N.Y. on

3/28/73 to face trial for charge of armed robbery.

Smith paid Merola's hotel bill in San Diego.

April 73, after Merola's trail and conviction, he

reported

to Miami, Fla. - 3 years probation. During

April Merola in bi-weekly telephone communication

with Smith.

- FBI rap sheet - Merola

Among entries

- 3/23/59 arrest - Miami- transporting stolen

firearms in Interstate Comm.

11/29/60 case dismissed by U.S. Atty.

- 4/9/59 - Pgh Per Viol - National Stolen

Property Act.

Receiging and concealing

rifles.

Sentence 5 years custody ag. $10,000 Comm., FN

- 6/24/59 Miami

Bringing an alien into the USA and harboring an

alien.

- 2/4/60

Pittsburgh National Stolen Proterty

Act.

Pitts.

- 8/25/61 Vio. National Stolen Property Act.

Tallahassee - 8/29/61 Conspiracy to transport

guns 1/s

NW 55923 DocId: 32260782 Page 12

---

## Page 13

•:.

• .

Notes: Metro Crime Commission

12

Atlanta

Tallahassee

- 10/14/61 Conspiracy to transport

guns 1/s

- 12/7/61

Conspiracy to transport

guns 1/s

Chicago.

- 2/13/62

-9/2/72

- 5/10/71

SKUM

Times Picayne "Gervais Netted 5 day Term"

Pershing O. Gervais, former chief

investiga-

tor for Jim Garrison, who became informer

for the federal government in its case

against Garrison, two former policemen

and 7 pinball figures, involving alleged

payments to Garrison to protect illegal

pinball operations.

Gervais found guilty

of contempt of court for refusing to testify

in Grand Jury proceedings of investigation

of charges that a $5000 bribe was paid

former Judge Malcolm V. O'Hara by Carlos

Marcello.

Gervais said he would testify

if given immunity.

Alleged bribe attempt was intended to help

Dalton

Smith avoid or delay extradition

to California.

Times-Picayune ) John McMillan

••was forced into prejury in '64 Hoffa

Trial-Partin."

Baton Rouge Teamster Boss Edward Grady

Nww 55923 DocId: 32260782

Page 13

---

## Page 14

.:.

Notes:

Metro Crime Commission

13

Name File Marcello, et als

sec transcript

Subject:

FF Smith (Dalton)

4/10/70

Partin says he lied during trail which sent Hoffa

to Prison--Statement made in deposition March 27.

In April 1969 Partin testified in BR court

that Smith offered $65,000 if he would say the gov't.

used

illegal wiretapping during the jury tampering

trial which

sent Hoffa to prison. He said meeting

with Smith was arranged by Aubrey Young, one-time

aide to Gov. McKeithen.

- In alleged deposition Partin said in 1962 Justice Dept.

reps forced him into role of informer with threats

unless he did their bidding.

- States Item 4/19/69 Bill Lynch "Bribery Traial left

interesting question."

re: Smith's bribery trial in Baton Rouge.

Smith supposedly little fish in big

scheme to spring Teamster boss Hoffa

from prison

on a Federal jury tampering

conviction.

- Remainder of file arcitles on Partin--Smith case.

NN 55923

DocId: 32260782

Page

14

---

## Page 15

Notes: Metro Crime Commission

14

FILE: Smith D'Alton

Rocky Mountain News Services

Sept. - Oct. 1971

Criminal organization

Articles only Smith

- Younger-Partin

bribery case

FILE:

"Nicoletti - Name File

References:

1. Criminal Org: U.S.

Cong. Rec.

23445

8/12/69

2. Criminal Org: Chicago

Chicago Daily News

3/31/77

3. Criminal Org: U.S.

Cong.

Rec. p. 23441

8/12/69

- Chicago Tribune 2/22/71 Bob Wiedrich

"Tower Ticker"

Ref: To Charels

"The Butcher" Nicoletti, imprisoned

Milwaukee Phil Alderiso's reputed triggerman,

who represents

the enforcement area of the

Crime syndicate.

NTW

55923

DocId: 32260782

Page 15

---

## Page 16

Notes: Metro Crime Commission

15

FILE

Chicago: Criminal Organization

- 3/31/77 Chicago Daily News

"Mob Bloodbath" - Edmund J. Rooney

and

Phillip

J. O'Connor.

re: bloodbath in mob circles:

Richard Cain, shot

viallied with mob's older faction; served as

to death 12/4/73,

chauffeur for mob boss Sam Giancana, during

self-imposed exile in Mexico.

the mob's bag man in the police department discovered

tapping Mayor Daley's offices. Claimed to have helped

CIA with Bag of Pigs, trained Cubans.

Charles (Chuck) Nicoletti- shot to death--

20th in series of mob-style murders since

Cain murder

Nicoletti - 61, had been among mob's top

triggerman; chief enforcer for. 3 aging hoodulms--

Anthony Accardo, Joseph Aiuppa, Gus Alex.

Giancana - 65 - 1147 Wenonah, Oak Par, mob's one-

time operating director, shot in basement of his

home 6/20/75 after being kicked out of Mexico.

• - LA Examiner 7/16/70 William Farr "Mafia Probe Here".

Re: Grand jury investigation into hidden interests

in Las Vegas casinos.

Suspected "skimming"

Subpoened - Tony Accardo, Paul Ricca, John Roselli

testified Gray and June.

Feds probing Nevada operations of Giancana, Frank

LaPorte, Charlie Guchetti, Accardo, Ricca.

- Chicago Crime Commission 10/67

Spotlight on Organized Crime - The Chicago Syndicate

- File mostly contains articles pertaining to mob. Will

attempt to obtain copies of articles.

NW 55923 DocId: 32260782 Page 16

---

## Page 17

Notes: Metro Crime Commission

16

FILE

P.J. Martino

Criminal organization

Martino of Biloxi, Boss

Not identified with John Martino

i Arrested Aug. '71 with 25 others

for interstate gambling

Found guilty, July '71.

Feb.

1963

Eugene Nolan, Gil

- involved in betting ring trial also with

Beckley.

NIN

55923

DocId: 32260782

Page 17

---

## Page 18

Notes: Metro Crime Commission

17

FILE:

SANTO TRAFFICANTE

Criminal organization

- Dade Cty, Fla. Public Safety Dept. Bulletin

6/13/68.

Santo Trafficante family - listed.

Associates listed as below-

Vincent Bruno

Harlan Blackburn

Joseph Chierico

Wn. rito Dentamaro

Jimmie Duca

Evaristo Gracia

Evaristico Garcia

Antonio Marchese

Lazaro Milian:

Pedro Perez

Stefano Randazzo

Norman

Rothman

"Wichy" Ravello

Humberto Trueba

Charles Tourine

Santo: Trafficante AKA Louis Santos

W/M

DOB 11/15/14, 5'4", 170 lbs., sparse

greying brn hair,

green eyes, glasses

FBI # 482531.

- NY Times 2/27/77

"Lansky and 4 subpoenaed in Miamai in

investigation into Murder of Roselli"

A.P. Miami dateline

Feb. 26.

Marcello, et als. - Report 6/19/75

Marcello, Joseph Jr.

Marcello, et al - Newsclip-Newsday, by

Tom Renner

2/28/74

- Shreveport Times - "Organized Crime Uses New Methods

in Business Take-Over"

6/21/73.

Bill Mazlett. LA Times Wash. Post.

NN 55923 DocId: 32260782 Page 18

---

## Page 19

/ Notes: Metro Crime Commission

18

- Newsday - "Mob rethinking it Heroin Ban to do

'a service to the Country'".

Tom Renner.

August 1972

- States Item

"Bid by Marcello Under Advisement"

6/28/72.

- States Item

"Court Refuses to kill suit against Time":

6/3/70.

- One of 2 Mr. Bigs - FBI Tags Marcello" by Victor Riesel

5/5/70 Journal - Shreveport.

- Investigative Report 4/16/68 - by Kohn

Informant advised on 4/12/68.

Joe Marcello (brother of Carlos) in Tampa, Fla for

funeral of Primo Lazzero, underboss for Trafficante.

(Died 4/8/68 after surgery for cancer) Lazzero's widow

scheduled to arrive in New Orleans 4/12 for stay at

Carlos Marcello's home.

During Feb. 68, Trafficante traveling thru, Singapore,

Hong Kong, Saigon -- not known why.

- "Gangland Meet Held to Divide Crime Empire"

States Item 5/20/67 NY AP

- 6/12/67 - Investigative Report by Kohn Information

received 4/26/67 from informant.

Marcello planning to go to Las Vegas to 100k over.

situation. Mano Mareno seeking CM aid for financing on

casino in Las Vegas. CM expected in NYC on or about

5/12/67.

30923

DocId: 32260782

Page 19

---

