# docid-32404534

## Page 1

Date: 04/02/03

Page: 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD

• NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

:

CIA

104-10332-10021

JFK CIA HRG

PROJEILES-DECLASS STDS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

'. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NU 55157 Date:

04-12-2018

ORIGINATOR

:

CIA

FROM

TO

:

TITLE

DATE

: ARB-CIA ISSUES: CIA INSTALLATION

PAGES

00/00/1/14/1997

SUBJECTS : ARRB ISSUE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

POSTPONED IN FULL

02/15/00

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

JEK-M-17:F22 2000.02.15.09:49:27:420044: AT THE ARRB

MEETING OF 11/17/97 THE BOARD APPROVED PROTECTION OF

THIS INFORMATION UNTIL 2017.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 55157

DocId: 32404534

Page

1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

OIM -97-0010

14 November 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR:

(U)

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Executive Director

Assassination Records Review Board

(U) Deputy Director for Administration

Central Intelligence Agency

Required Protection of

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

as CIA Facility

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

1.

This memorandum is submitted pursuant to the

decision by the Assassination Records Review Board (hereafter

"ARRB" or "Board") to

release the term

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

in the context of a CIA facility and the Board's subsequent

ecision on 17 November 1997 to reconsider this issue. It

provides additional information as to why

JFK Act 6 (1)(B

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

Jas a CIA facility must be protected from public

disclosure and hence the cover of this clandestine facility

maintained.

2.

(U) As a preliminary matter, I would respectfully ask

the Board and staff to note the classified nature of this

document, to limit access to those individuals properly cleared,

1 (S) The documents at issue contain the term

however the actual name of the CIA facility atl

Jis the L

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

_In point of fact, even CIA personnel tend to use the terms

interchangeably.

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

CL BY: 0700265

CL REASON: 1.5(c)

DECL ON: X1

DRV FM: LOC 5-82

SECRET

HH 55157 DooId:32404534

Page 2

---

## Page 3

AJEK Act 6 (1) (B)

SUBJECT:

SECRET

Required Protection of

as CIA Facility

JEK ACt 6 (1) (B),

and to return this memorandum for retention to Agency

representatives at the conclusion

of your deliberations.

3. 181

As we advised previously, identifiable and serious

damage to the mission, the people and the very existence of

could reasonably be expected to occur as a result of any

confirmed affiliation with the Agency./ Before examining with

particularity the damage that would flow from disclosure, I

believe that it would be helpful to understand in some detail the

activities which currently constitute the

mission and what

new, costly and critical activities are being developed for

4. 181

is much more than a

operating under the relatively fragile cover of

for the CIA

While it does serve this function, and thus houses at the site

known as

some of the Agency's

most important and

sensitive Top Secret Codeword material,' it is currently the very

heart of the CIA's worldwide communications effort, a critical

(S) Pursuant to classification guidelines promulgated by the Director of

Central Intelligence, this fact is currently and properly classified at the

SECRET level.

3

states Because die see ta to maintain thos

the Archivist of the Unite

for both

Apending ultimate transfer to the National Archives no sooner

than 50 years after their origination.

currently houses

nearly l

cubic feet of records classified up to and including Top Secret

codeword and composed of various media ranging from paper to original imagery

from our national aerial and satellite surveillance platforms. In addition,

Jalso houses the CIA'sC

which would provide the only

basis for continuity of operations should disaster befall CIA headquarters.

In addition and because of the security offered, the L

I serves a similar

role for the National Security Council and the Office of the Management and

Budget.

2

-SECRET

HH 55157 DocId: 32404534

Page 3

---

## Page 4

/JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

SECRET

SUBJECT:

Required Protection of

as CIA Facility

element in our foreign signals intelligence effort, and a

principal location for training and conferencing of officers

engaged in highly clandestine technical intelligence collection

activities.

The facilities at

in support of these efforts

include:

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

3

SECRET

NW 55157

DooId: 32404534

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

SUBJECT: 181

Required Protection of

as CIA

• Facility

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

• members and staff from

the Senate

Select Committee

on Intelligence.

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

SECRET

HH 55157

DocId: 32404534

Page 5

---

## Page 6

AJEK Act 6 (1) (B)

SECRET

SUBJECT: 181

Required Protection of

as CIA Facility

JEK Act a (1 (B)

JFK Act 6 (1) (B):

5:

(S) As detailed on the attached annotated photographs,

and its

are a critical support

element for the clandestine intelligence collection mission of

the CIA and the United States.

Whether sending a message to a

covert foreign national asset

in Havana,

or receiving a message

from the CIA Chief of Station in

or supporting military

and diplomatic representatives in Bosnia,

is a key element in

that effort. Moreover, it is extremely vulnerable to physical

attack because of the proximity of uncontrolled public roads and

spaces. Accordingly, and as considered in more detail in

paragraph 6 below, any affiliation of with the CIA, no matter

how insignificant the individual occurrence or document release

may seem, has the very real potential to jeopardize lives,

negatively affect the Agency mission, and thereby do irreparable

harm to the national security of the

United States.

extant risks,

6. 18) But in addition to this established mission and

extant risks, there are new activities at in direct support

of the nation's leadership which must be considered -

specifically, the establishment of the Director of Central

Intelligence

(DCI)

and an

alternativel

site for

has been

chosen

to be the primary

given its location,

communications, information services, and life support

capabilities. Needless to say, the fact that _

is not an

officially recognized CIA facility adds a dimension of secrecy

which will be needed to enable the DCI to continue his work

during any emergency situation. Additionally, active

consideration is being given to also designating

as the

5

-SECRET

HH 55157 DocId:32404534 Page 6

---

## Page 7

AJEK Act 6 (1) (B)

SUBJECT: (8)

SECRET

Required Protection of

as CIA Facility

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

Agency's primary

/JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

Given the

amount of time, money and resources which will be expended to

insure that the facility is maintained in such a way that it will

be prepared for any emergency situation, it would certainly be in

che best interests of the us Government not to permit any

official affiliation,

no matter how minor, of Jand the CIA.

7. 181

The preceding descriptions of ongoing and planned

activities at

presents, I believe, an intuitive sense of the

damage to national

security which would follow from a linking of

with CIA.. In sum, the conduct of covert communications and

support activities as well as the presence of officers who will

soon be serving overseas under cover in highly sensitive

positions can not take place at a facility linked to CIA.

But

there are some very specific damage issues that I wish to

highlight and they include:

• (S) Serious and Immediate Impairment to Physical and

Personnel Security: Our

cover

allows us to maintain a relatively low profile in the

community and

a very low profile outside of the

immediate area. Ifl

became recognized as a CIA

facility, the increased visibility and scrutiny would

place employees, facilities, and daily aperations at

greater risk.

In sum, l

would become an easy "target

of opportunity" for the media, foreign counter-

intelligence agents, terrorist and militia activities,

demonstrators, and emotionally unstable individuals.

Facts, examples, and specific concerns include:

6

-SECRET

HH 55157 Do0Id:32404534

PageT

---

## Page 8

-SECRET

SUBJECT:

(8)

Required Protection of

as CIA Facility

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

maintains security through a low profile.' In the

past in the United

States, identification of CIA

facilities have led to a number of surreptitious

entries, bombings, and physical disruptions.

Simply stated, CIA is a target for both hostile

individuals and organizations;

• On the individual level and in the past three

years, l

has experienced an increase in security

incidents including a physical breach of

compound security, two suspect package incidents,

and additional unsolicited contacts and "gate

turn-around" incidents;

JEK Act

6 (1) (B)

As detailed on the attached annotated photographs, the array of

communications equipment and its proximity to public spaces and roads is

clear.

For example,

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

8 X8T The current Kasi prosecution provides ample evidence of the risks

posed by the public identification of CIA domestic facilities. Any individual

intent upon seeking retribution for perceived wrongs quite naturally seeks a

target providing the largest possible public notice and while CIA headquarters

is an excellent target, a covert facility is even a better target, and a

covert facility supporting

the foreign espionage activities of the CIA is the

best possible target for a political and public statement.

1 181

The breach of compound security was by an out-of-state vehicle which

followed an employee through a remote gate and the driver had no credible.

explanation for their actions; the incident is considered suspicious and

unexplained.

The suspect package incidents include a box which was placed

(not dropped) next to our facility which we believe was intended to test and

thus observe our response to suspicious packages. Gate turn-arounds number 8-

10 per month and include only those vehicles which ignore clear signs that

they are entering a classified government facility but proceed in any event to

our gate; it is instructive to note that, very few of these individuals state

7

SECRET

NH 55157 DocId:32404534 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

SUBJECT:

18)

Required Protection of

as CIA

Facility

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

AJEK Act 6 (1) (B)

•• Moreover, in the past several years, the federal

government has had a heightened awareness of the

violent domestic organization threat posed by the

self-styled "militias" which have a stated intent

to destroy government communications capabilities

and facilities. We know, from information

provided by federal law enforcement authorities,

that the target list of such organizations

includes federal communications centers and

• By way of examples in this regard, in June of this

year, the Sheriff of

reported to

information regarding, first, a local militia

group, and, second, "unusual" comments from

individuals living near

communicating with UFO's;

that we were

• Any higher profile would realistically and

seriously threaten the physical and personnel

security of

And, as evidenced by the

attached map of_

such threats do not need to

penetrate the fence line: Agency officials are of

the opinion that a bomb commensurate with the one

which exploded at the Oklahoma City federal

building could do substantial damage to the

Agency's communications equipment and could kill

numerous federal employees at from outside the

fence line in circumstances we do not control and

could not prevent.

or imply that they know that is a CIA facility and, hence, it would appear

that our cover, in fact, is quite good.

8

SECRET

HH 55157

DocId: 32404534

Page 9

---

## Page 10

-SECRET

SUBJECT: (81

Required Protection of

as CIA Facility

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

JFK Act

(1) (B)

• 18) Likely Future Compromise of Covert Employees in

Overseas Assignments: As discussed above, numerous CIA

employees involved in communications, technical

intelligence collection, and human intelligence

collection train and operate at for the exact reason

that it provides a secure environment disassociated from

the CIA. We know from ample evidence that foreign

intelligence services have as a primary goal the

identification of US citizens who appear to be ordinary

public servants or private business people but are, in

actuality, clandestine intelligence officers.1

Simply

stated, the identification of this facility with CIA will

label any and every individual associated as a likely

intelligence officer and thus substantially negate their

operational ability if not place their lives in jeopardy.

LOSS Of

for DCI:

-- whether they be for

the President or Cabinet officials -- have value only as

long as their identity is secret. The public disclosure

of the fact that

would serve as such an

which could come from a general compromise ofl

as a

CIA facility plus subsequent visual surveillance -- would

negate Agency planning in this regard, vitiate

expenditures, and leave the Agency with few realistic

options for survivability. We must

assume that any

10

We know from captured STASI (the former intelligence service of East

Germany) and clandestinely-acquired KGB files that substantial resources have

been directed at such identifications. Typically, a suspect American will be.

surveilled for some time in order to identify his or her target and

cooperating foreign nationals. To identify a communicator is one of the

highest priorities since it provides a possible entrée to cryptographic

compromise as well as an opportunity to "roll-up" or identify the numerous

human intelligence collection officers who rely on that particular

communicator to transmit information back to the United States.

9

SECRET

HH 55157 DooId:32404534 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

SUBJECT:

Required Protection of

as CIA Facility

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

entity which had the willingness and capability to attack

the CIA would be inclined to inflict the maximum damage.

Identification of_

even as a generic CIA facility

poses an unacceptable risk to this key aspect to CIA

continuity of operations.

• (8) Potential Compromise of Classified Communications of

Technical Collection Platforms:

In addition to the

foregoing physical threat to our communications

facilities (e.g., the potential to destroy towers,

satellite dishes and transmitting facilities by terrorist

act), the disclosure of

Jas the transmit and receive

site

for CIA classified communications to

sites as well as

in the field presents a

significant opportunity for any number of foreign nations

to enhance their signals and communications intelligence

efforts at our expense. While the scope and

classification level of this memorandum does not permit a

detailed discussion, I am convinced that this disclosure

would make

a target of hostile foreign intelligence

services.

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

The official term for such procurements is

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

which means that the tangible items purchased cannot be traced to CIA but

only to a non-sensitive government agency. For example, if an officer is

assigned undercover to l

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

then it would be most imprudent to carry a personal computer and a cellular

telephone which could easily be traced to CIA. At a minimum, that officer

would be subiect to foreign counter-intelligence surveillance and all of his

or her contacts compromised (i.e., identified and neutralized) .

10

SECRET

HW 55157

DocId: 32404534

Page 11

---

## Page 12

ÄJEK Act 6 (1) (B)

SECRET

SUBJECT: 181

Required Protection of

as CIA Facility

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

If the

cover is eroded due to affiliation with the

Agency, past procurements could be retroactively

compromised while subsequent procurement activity would

necessitate involving headquarters elements, indirect

delivery and forwarding to_

The loss of response

time would negatively impact on the operational

capabilities ofl

tenant organizations.

Ist Loss of Secure Training and Conference Capability:

is often used as a conference facility not only

by Agency groups, but also by other US Government

organizations.

For example, Secretary of State Warren

Christopher's pre-planning session for the Bosnian Peace

Accord Talks was held at

based on the need for a

discreet location in which Department of State (DOS)

officials, to include two ambassadors, and the military

could secretly discuss strategic planning without undue

attention (media coverage). If CIA affiliation is

acknowledged in any way,

value to the entire US

Government is greatly diminished.

Additionally, its

value to the Agency is also diminished in that personnel

from OED and other operational elements who use this

facility would be running a greater risk of exposure and

cover compromise if they visited L

Since access roads

can be monitored and registration lists and/or luggage

tags can be obtained at hotels used to accommodate some

of these visitors, their association with the CIA would

be much harder to protect.

• IT Heightened Scrutiny of Classified Mission: For more.

than 40 years, L

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

have been a good

"neighbor" and have developed close

working relationships throughout the town. To confirm

what many have suspected but could never prove (or what a

few "knew" but willingly protected) will have a negative

11

-SECRET

HH 55157 Do0Id:32404534

Page 12

---

## Page 13

..

SECRET

SUBJECT:

(8)

Required Protèction of

as CIA Facility

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

impact on our credibility and will create an "open

season" for the local media and others as they quite

naturally attempt to learn any and all aspects of our

mission -- those clandestine officers who could come and

go previously with little notice will now be a highly

visible target. 12

• (S) Endangerment of

Loss of

and

As thel

is an integral part of

their concerns must

also be taken into consideration.

They have advised of

their significant concerns that a

loss of

will

lead to the mis-identification of

communicators

the fact of the current

as crA officers. They have stated that it is

cover which permits them to

train

communicators alongside Agency communicators at

a very efficient cost. The only solution to the loss of

cover would be to move the

communications school to

another location, a very costly endeavor in both time and

money.

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

8. 18 In summary, it is my considered judgment that the

release of the term

which will create

an affiliation of and the CIA, would cause major disruptions

to CIA operations, possible physical harm to CIA facilities and

personnel, and hence identifiable and serious damage to the

national

security of the United States.

Accordingly, I

respectfully request that the Board defer release of such

information. In doing so, I am mindful of the Board's mission

12 t8T It is not unreasonable to believe that the loss of cover forl

require a five fold increase in physical security personnel at and even

then security could not be ensured given the proximity of the facility to

public spaces and roads.

12

SECRET

NN 55157 DooId:32404534 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET

SUBJECT:

(S)

Required Protection of

as CIA Facility

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

and the necessity for the American public to have the fullest

possible disclosure regarding the assassination of President

Kennedy, however, I believe that this reference is not relevant

to the public's understanding and that disclosure would cause

harms significantly disproportionate to any public benefit.

9. (U) If the Board should have any questions with regard

to this matter, I have asked Lee Strickland, who serves as Chief

of the Agency's Information Review Group, to be available to the

Board in order to provide such additional classified or

unclassified information as might be required.

Richard D. Calder

(S)

Annotated View of

Attachment

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

13

SECRET

55157

DocId: 32404534

Page

14

---

## Page 15

-SECRET

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

14

SECRET

HH 55157

DocId: 32404534

Page

15

---

## Page 16

...

-SECRET

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

15

SECRET

55157

DocId: 32404534

Page 16

---

## Page 17

.:..r.

SECRET

SUBJECT:

Required Protection of

as CIA Facility

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

OFSS/ FMG,

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

Kak/49570 (07 Nov 97)

modified OIM/IRG/LSStrickland/31289

(13 Nov 97)

Distribution:

Orig - Addressee

2 - DDA

1 - OIM/IRG Chrono

1 - C/OIM/IRG

1 - D/OIM

1 - OIM Legal Advisor

1 - D/OFSS

1 - C/FMG/OFSS

1 - DO/CCO

1 - C/ EMG/OFSS •

1 - DC

1 - OFSS Registry

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

g:lipcrowp\general\lss\arrb_

16

SECRET

HH 55157

DooId: 32404534

Page

17

---

## Page 18

#1

file

SECRET

'26 Séptember 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

Executive Director

Assassination Records Review Board

John F. Pereira

Central Intelligence Agency

Reconsideration of Release of

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

in the Lopez Report

SUBJECT:

david.

1.

ne attachea memoranaum is provided in support o

ur request that the JFK boara reconsider its decision t

release the reference

to

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

in the

Lopez Report (p. 44).

We request that this memorandum and attachment

be returned to CIA once the Board has completed its

deliberations on this issue.

Attachment

spense

55157

DocId: 32404534

Page

---

## Page 19

SECRET

AJEK Act 6 (1) (B)

0F55-96-3975

25

September 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR:

VIA:

Intormation Review Officer,

Directorate of Administration

Deputy Director for Administration

Director of Facilities and Security

Services

Chief, Facilities Management Group,

OFSS

Chief,

JEK ACt 6(1) (B)

FMG /OFSS

FROM:

SUBJECT:

JEK ACt 6 (1) (B)

1.

181.

This memorandum is written pursuant to yesterday's

discussion with regard to the release of JFK-related documents

that refer to

land/or derivatives of al

It documents executive-level "evidence" as to why!

_needs to be protected. In brief, significant damage to

mission, people, and the very existence of the L

would occur as a result of the second- and third-

order effects of any confirmed affiliation with the Agency.

2. 181

As background, the Central Intelligence Agency has

gone to great lengths to protect sensitive missions and prevent

identification of covert personnel as Agency employees.

latter is especially profound as the very lives of these

employees are often placed in jeopardy at hostile overseas posts.

Furthermomaty provided by cover is essential te their drotection

urthermore,

provides the

sanctuary whereby

personnel can

alongside Agency employees without fear of being "tagged"

as working for the Agency.

3.

mandate

181 The cover mechanism itself is very fragile.

Per

of the cover providers,

the affiliation of

WTC and the Agency, is classified SECRET vice CONFIDENTIAL.

CL BY: 2004977

CL REASON:

1:5 (c)

DECL ON:

X1

DRV FROM: LOC 5-82

SECRET

HH

55157

DooId: 32404534

Page

19

---

## Page 20

SECRET

JEK Act 6

(1) (B)

SUBJECT:

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

Cover Considerations

cover operates solely on the ability to sustain plausible denial.

In spite of previous rumors of an Agency affiliation, categorical

denial of such has worked to the point that the media

currently

refers to

addition, the public-at-large truly believes that|

_Given a generally inquisitive media

Tone radio station,

two newspapers -- all with connections

affiliates in the Washington Metropolitan Area) and recent

publicity over a

issue, the re-

lease of references to?

would precipitate an unwelcome

Jin the JEK-related documents

focus on

This would lead to

the real possibility that cover would be compromised.

4. J8 with the closure of

remaining federal facility in the

the affiliation

of Agency records

ruse, will provide a direct link to the

lis the sole

As a result,

under

any

This will pose severe problems for installation

activities. While the Agency

is

the media

frequently refers to WIC in its

entirety.

Activities at the other

that would

be compromised are as follows:

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

2

SECRET

HH 55157

DocId: 32404534

Page 20

---

## Page 21

SECRET

SUBJECT:

181

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

Cover Considerations

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

described above Pane a that o e over at lo that

deed, would provide easy targets of opportunity for counter-

intelligence activities, terrorist activities, demonstrations,

and emotionally unstable individuals.

18 In summary, any affiliation of

and the Agency,

no matter how insignificant the individual occurrence or document

release may seem, has the very real potential to jeopardize

disrupt world-wide classified

message traffic, and, thereby, do irreparable harm to the

national security of

the United States.

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

55157

Doc1d:32404034

Page 21

3

-STERER

---

## Page 22

CONFIDENTIAL

CL BY: 705641

CL REASON: Section 1.5 C

DECL ON: X1

DRV FRM: COV 1-82

TO:

FROM:

OFFICE:

DATE:

John F. Pereira

Brian S. Latell

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

DCI

10/20/97 02:21:49 PM

SUBJECT: gRe: Release Issue/JFK Board

Thanks. I passed along to D/EXDIR and EXDIR. The D/EXIR may want Brian Latell to provide some more background on this issue at

the meeting tomorrow.

Original Text of John F. Pereira

Original Text of John F. Pereira

Following is in response to questions raised by the EXDIR:

1. Members of JFK Board:

Chairman: Judge John Tunheim (Federal District Court, Minnesota)

Four other members: Henry Graft; History Professor Emeritus, Columbia U.

Kermit Hall; Dean of Humanities, Ohio State

William Joyce; Assoc. Librarian, Princeton U.

Anna Nelson; History Professor, American U.

2. Intermediate steps before appeal to President:

a) We are discussing our concerns with JFK. Board Staff, and will ask the Board to

reconsider its decision.

b) We'll propose that a senior Agency officer brief the Board on the sensitivity of

Warrenton.

3. Who would make the appeal to the President?

Thus far, the process calls for the Agency's General Counsel to forward the appeal

to the White House Counsel, with the approval of the EXDIR and/or DCI.

4. Has there been an appeal to the President before ?

CIA has submitted one appeal, in early 1996. The issues concerned identification of

certain European stations and liaison relationships. The White House directed the

Board and the Agency to "work it out", which was done. After the ADDO briefed the

- CONFIDENTIAL

NN 55157 DocId: 32404534

Page 22

---

## Page 23

CONFIDENTIAL

Board, a compromise was reached.

The FBI has submitted three appeals, none of which was successful.

5. Does /SCAP have a role ?

Thus far, ISCAP has had no role with regard to JFK, as far as we are aware.

CC:

Regina A. Genton, Brian S. Latell, Edmund Cohen @ DA, James R. Oliver @ DA

Sent on 20 October 1997 at 02:21:49 PM

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

-CONTIDENTAL

55157

DooId: 32404534

Page

23

---

