JFK Assassination System Date: 6/11/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10198-10332

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 92-2781-735

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, TP
| TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: — 06/28/1963

‘PAGES: 3
|
| SUBJECTS :
LST, ACT, BKG, ASSOC
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: . 10/15/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE ‘
COMMENTS :
ie
pees
i
I
vol 33

|
| DocId: 32288056 Page 1 :


.-FD-96 (Rev. 12-13-56)

1
: S mn. 4
8 see i
vat @) et)
@ oo
i}

oT
1

1

i]

1

Date: 6/28/63

Transmit the following in
(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL AIRMAIL
(Priority or Method of Mailing)

WEEKLY AIRTEL SUMMARY

TP 9%7-C on 6/23 and 24, 1963, advised that the
TRAFFICANTE wedding party reservation for Saturday night
i 6/22/63, was made in the name of "SANTO." Informant
a advised that the full facilities of the Columbia
. Restaurant were used for the wedding party of SARAH ANN

(TRAFFICANTE) and RICHARD EDWARD VALDEZ. In addition
informant advised that during the evening of 6/22/63 he
observed the following in attendance:

LOUIS P. BRADY
TONY GONZALO
JAMES LONGO

Informant also advised that SANTO TRAFFICANTE
had a party fo¥ 32 individuals at the Columbia Restaurant
on Sunday, 6/23/63, but was not in a position to observe
those in attendance.

‘A a ee p tngnagresgeagresgeaqrasgeas

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

SACS; MIAMI (92-88)

NEW ORLEANS
FROM: SAC, TAMPA (92-1) (P)
_

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR. Gin *
aka . i
AR
(00: TP)

)

Bureau nd 734
- Miami J-

2 - New Orleans a Q-2d7 eee

2 - Tampa a 63

SFN:sac i due 1 9

A &é

- Wo | sty eg
: 7 bhi 688
be iene _——

£B
Sent

arge

Docld:32288056 Page 2



TP 92-1

On June 26, 1963, WILLIE MAE JACKSON, PCI, (Protect)
2505 De Leon St. (maid at 2505 Bristol St., residence.of
subject) advised that she and her husband attended the
wedding.of SARAH ANN TRAFFICANTE and RICHARD EDWARD
VALDES held at the Sacred Heart Catholic Church at 6:00
p.m. on Saturday, June 22, 1963. Informant stated that
she and her husband were the only Negros in attendance
and she did not recall the names of any of the guests
at the wedding for she and her husband sat way in the
back of the church and left slightly before the processional
- exiting.

In addition to the foregoing this informant
revealed that the TRAFFICANTE family, exclusive of SARAH
ANN and RICHARD EDWARD VALDES, left for their summer beach ms
‘home near St. Petersburg, Fla., on either the night of }
June 23 or the morning of June 94. where they intend to, H
stay until Sunday July 7, 1963. i

Sergeant JACK DE LA LLANA, Intelligence Unit,
Tampa PD provided information.to the effect that he had - ‘
heard from sources, JOHN F. DEMMI, local gambler known
to the Tampa Division, was in attendance at the wedding
reception held at the Columbia Restaurant on June 22, 1963.

On this date Sergeant De La LLANA advised that his
department had made a license check of vehicles parked in
the lots under the control of the Columbia Restaurant
and is presently making a compilation of the registered
owners which will be made available to the Tampa Office, if
who immediately upon receipt will set up communications
to have background information obtained on the various
owners.

Sergeant De La LLana reported that SAMMY PAXTON,
aka Salvatore Amarena, a hoodlum known to Tampa and New
Orleans Divisions, waS in attendance at the wedding reception
and was driving a 1962 Ford yellow convertible with 1963 Hl
Louisiana License plates 314-232.

Contained! among the license numbers as obtained
on the night of June 22, 1963, was Miami tag 1WW-1070,

Docld:32288056 Page 3
