# docid-32290024

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10202-10300

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-741

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

02/19/1963

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

GAL, ASSOC, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290024

Page 1

249

---

## Page 2

4-41 (Rev. 10-16-62)

DECODED COPY

peter

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi -

• Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

•Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

• Radio

Teletype

DEFERRED

2-19-63

/TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO

7-53 AM LUC

190750

S

GUS

ALEX, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

SHELLY GIBSON WAS FORMER STRIP DANCER AT CABANA

CLUB PRIOR TO ITS CLOSING RECENTLY BECAUSE OF REVOCATION

OF LICENSE AS RESULT OF RAID BY CHICAGO POLICE DEPT. AT

WHICH TIME GIBSON AND OTHER GIRLS WERE ARRESTED FOR

SOLICITING DRINKS AND PERFORMING LEWD ACTS.

GIBSON INTERVIEWED AND ADVISED THAT SHE IS ACQUAINTED

WITH ALEX AS HAVING DATED A FORMER GIRLFRIEND OF HERS.

SHE CLAIMS SHE KNEW. NOTHING OF

HIS CURRENT ACTIVITIES OR

SOURCE OF INCOME •

SHE ADVISED, HOWEVER, THAT SHE HAD

HEARD THAT ONE THIRD OF THE PROFITS FROM THE CABANA CLUB

WENT TO THE OUTFIT. SHE CLÄIMED THAT THE CLUB WAS RUN BY

JOHN AND GEORGE SPUDEAS AND MIKE ELLIS. SHE ALSO ADVISED

THAT THE SPUDEAS BROTHERS-HAVE A FINANCIAL INTEREST IN THE

CHEZ PARISIAN SHOW LOUNGE, CROSSROADS RESTAURANT AND THE

CLUB ROUGE.

RECEIVED:

ALEX ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

9:03 AM

REC- 42

95-8803182-741

€ FEB 19 1963

EX:101

51 FEB 26 1963

§ the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl

araphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems

DocId: 32290021 Page 2

---

