AGENCY :

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10224-10131
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-3171-96, 97, 98, 99, 100
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, CG
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
: TITLE:
DATE: — 12/30/1960
~ ‘PAGES: 17
SUBJECTS :
SGI, ASSOC, REL, RES, B/F INT, TESUR
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 01/21/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: — INC 4 A/T

vol
Docld:32298851 Page 1

386



FD-a6 (Rev, 12-13-56)

t

I

I

1

1

i‘ FBI \

|

1

Date: 1/6/61 |

1

; ar i
(Transmit the following in ype Te plain WO SataT
: AIRTEL H
“Nia ai = 4
(Priority or Method of Mailing) H

Susiay leazlnsdazstasssstatatasazazsuaianduanauatanatararataratandsarieateeivarireteretactes ti sstss ies octeestes es tsctas earner aa seseseteseses ees nseteeatesesed yt

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)
FROM: SAC, CHICAGO (92-349)

SAMUEL M.GIANCANA, Aka. ue: YI>/gy.
AR

WEEKLY SUMMARY AIRTEL
MARRY AIRTEL
Re Chicago airtel summary, 12/30/60.
Reference is made to Chicago daily summary airtel

IN THE CHICAGO AREA, AR". Information was received from

CG 6343- n 11/10/60, wherein an individual believed
to be SAl IANCANA discussed the¢Standard Garbage.

with the Garbage Disposal Association. Apparently the
association had been utilizing pressure in order to stop
the Standard Disposal Company from expanding their business,
It was MURRAY HUMPHREYS contention that an Antitrust suit

a should be TITé@ against the Disposal Association and go
through legitimate channels to exert pressure against the
association rather than using muscling tactics. ih }

Dun and Brad Street Inc., report dated 5/2/60,
reveals that the Standard Disposal and Metal Company,
Inc., formerly at 55 East 18th Street, Chicago, had moved
to 1216 South Sangamon. Its officers were listed as
L,,;SAMPSON and WALTER/QEBENBERG, secretary and

treasirér.” An analysis“Féflects that this business had
just started and financial details were lacking. LOEBENBERG
operated the Standard Coffee Service, Inc., at 55 East 18th
Street and according to this report was at that time still

aoe in that a REC- 42 319/97

dated 11/14/60 in case captioned "ACTIVITIES OF TOP HOODLUMS

Company and“ thé difficulties this company had been encountering

3 - Bureau ‘ Ws. -)
Fe pppoe arated ye Via 7 18 JAN ar 1961
1 .- Chicago : . NY ae a a
sli ae t* \ \Z
2S Cogpick nv = 5 AY
6 Anghied Sent © st Per -
us ada Becial Agent in Charge, €

Docld:32298851 Page 2


t

i
i

“ow
aw.
CG 92-349

Z
CG 6283-C advised on 1/4/61, that the Standard

Disposal and Metal Company is a fodlum controlled operation.

The informant stated that LENN ICK (Chicago top

hoodlum) and DAVE PARAS (kiown TO Yami Office) are F/A.

working together arranging and lining up stops and customers

for this disposal company. Informant said that he knew for

a fact that PATRICK had approached the owner of Marty's

Food Mart, Inc., to line up this individual as a customer

for Standard Disposal Company. It was the same person who

was the victim of LENNIE PATRICK's muscling tactics in a

shake-down of super markets in 1958. ty

On 1/5/61, SAs RALPH R. HILL and VINCENT L. INSERRA
interviewed DAV: YE who identified himself as the sales
director and vice preSident of the Standard Disposal and
Metal Company at 1216 South Sangamon. KAYE was interviewed
in his office at that address. KAYE was visibly disturbed
over the presence of agents and commented immediately to

the agents that he is a parolee from the State of Florida

and had been convicted of attempted murder’in Miami in if
1954, however, would not go into lengthy detail as to
circumstances surrounding his conviction other then to

state that he was sent to Miami from Chicago in 1951 by
EUGENE "JIMMY'YJAMES, the then vice president of the
Titérnational Latin kers Union and head of Local 46 in
Chicago. KAYE was sent to Miami as deputy receiver and
organizer in an-attempt to organize the Laundry Workers

in the south Florida area. KAYE advised that his Florida
penitentiary number was 53473 and that he was paroled

from the Florida Penitentiary on March 24, 1959, and his
parole was sponsored by EUGENE JAMES. KAYE stated he

received a 20 years sentence and his parole expires in 1975/4)

KAYE said that the Standard Disposal and Metal
Company was organized about a year ago and now has 175 to
180 stops, both residential and industrial, picking up
garbage and scrap. He said that they have been in difficulty
with the Salvage Association which has,according to KAYE,
"formed a monolopy for restraint of trade” and that the
association is attempting to put them out of business by
closing them out of dumping grounds, pressuring trucking
companies to keep them‘from purchasing trucks and using

| Docld:32298851 Page 3



8
q

CG 92-349

economic pressure on their potential customers. KAYE
insisted that the business has been obtained by underselling
competition, that this is strictly legitimate and that no
muscling tactics are utilized. He said that he knows DAVE
YARAS "slightly" but denied knowing LENNIE PATRICK. He stated
that neither YARAS nor PATRICK are at this time working for
this company and to the best of his knowledge have never
been utilized as salesmen for the Standard Disposal {}{_,)

He said the operations of the Standard Disposal
Company are financed by the Guaranteed Trust and Savings.
It is noted that the Guaranteed Trust was formerly the
Southmoor Bank and Trust, whose president was LEON MARCUS,
slain in gangland style in 1956, after which much speculation
was made to the effect, that the killing was carried out under
orders of GIANCANA.( ;

On 1/5/61, GIANCANA was observed at the Armory
Loun, in the evening, hours in company with NICKED! ANTICO,
JOHNAFARELLI, and JOHJMARKS GIANCANA was observe
eing dropped at re Arm ‘Lounge from a car occupied by
GIANCANA and two other individuals. This automobile after
dropping GIANCANA proceeded to 915 Franklin Street in
iver Forect where it was observed that_ANTHONY JOS:

EPH.
CARDO departed from this vehicle and proceeded into his
fice at that taaaiheateA G))

CG 6428-C advised that GUS' Steak House in Cicero,
mentioned previously, utilizes gambling on the second floor

and that the whole layout is operated by FRAN RKEY, an :
ex-convict. SHARKEY is probably FRANK "Sharkey a

1104 South Maple, Oak Park, Illinois, a known clos& associate
of GIANCANA's. (4

The Miami Office is requested to furnish to Chicago
all available information pertaining to DAVE KAYE, mentioned
herein.

The Jacksonville Office is requested to obtain
all available information from the Florida Penitentiary
System regarding KAYE under Florida State Penitentiary
number 53473. i) :

Investigation continuing. (u A it pee

’ GALE

-3-

Docld:32298851 Page 4


FD-96 (Rev, 12-13-56)

> v- Sit =

- é FBI

HOE,

Date: 12/30/60

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)
Via ___AIRTEL

~L--t-_~~_------~-!

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

mr ee “ONT AINED

FROM: SAC, CHICAGO (92-349)

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA
ANTI-RACKETEERING

iE N22) Bf StS oor

A : WEEKLY SUMMARY AIRTEL

\
\ On 12/8/60, PCI ALBERT TEMANER advised SA JOHN J.
MATTHEWS that RINALDO SPADERM, whose true name is ROBERT JACOBS,
has been a personal friend of RICHARD FANNING for many years,
: and that he was quite upset at the recent assassination of

ye RICHARD FANNING. SPADERM advised TEMANER that he has been
hi ‘attempting to learn the reason, for FANNING's murder from MARTY
FANNING, RICHARD's brother. (2

On 12/21/60, SPADERM stated that the opinion of most
of FANNING's associates is that MOONEY GIANCANA was responsible
for his death. According to SPADERM, FANNING and LESTER BELGRAD
worked together on a shake-down racket. They preyed on business-
men at local hotels, placing these individuals in compromising
positions. FANNING would engineer the matter and BELGRAD would
represent himself as a law enforcement officer. 28 af

On several occasions the victims were individuals 7
close to the Syndicate. FANNING and BELGRAD were warned to,
desist and when they ignored the warning, both were killea( %,)

TEMANER advised that he did not know how reliable the
above information might be but SPADERM insisted that it w;
obtained from individuals who should know, ‘G2. - 3124 ~ i)

fs - Bureau (RM.
i Q ~ Chichi 3 My xg
DWS : fes ::. a y

47 JAN 3 196]

Approved: Sent

fént in Charge

t-
!
| Docla: 32298851 Page 5

