# docid-32313456

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/14/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10330-10067

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-107261-503

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BT

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 07/31/1964

'PAGES:

42

SUBJECTS:

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

1 DocId: 32313456

17

Page

---

## Page 2

FD-263.(Rev. 5-1-59)

REPORTING OFFICE

BUTTE

TITLE OF CASE

'MINUTEMEN"

1, 3, 18, 19,2021, 72, 3.3

ST-103

REFERENCE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINES

DATE 8-2192

INFORMANT'S

8/3.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

KANSAS CITY

DATE

7/31/64

REPORT MADE BY

THOMAS H. ZOELLER

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/2-7/29/64

INFORMATION CONCERNING

(INTERNAL SECURITY)

TYPED BY

kld

Report of SA THOMAS H. ZOELLER, Butte, 6/10/640

3-12

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

3T T-1 IS PSI JAMES W. REINKING®

CC TO:

Photo

REQ. REC'D..

1965,

ANS.

BY:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW RE? 45,

62-1072617503

REG- 15

BRE COVER PAGE

B

7).

Bureau

2 ∞

(62-107261) (Reg.)

Butte

(100-8307)

1104

& AUG 3 1964

¡Capy E/End-817RS

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

G-2

enI

Reguest Bead

SECREt

SERVICE

Date Fwd.

5-13-

How Fwd.

By

Jok:

Notations

RA(06-D)

DocId: 32313456 Page 2

---

## Page 3

#D-204 trev.

3-3-591

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

UNITEN STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1 - Special Agent in Charge, U. S. Secret Service,

Spokane, Washington (Reg.)

Investigator in Charge, ATTD, San Francisco, Calif, (R

ONI, 13th Naval District, Seattle, Wn. (Reg.)

1

1

McChord Air Force Base, Washington (Reg.)

- Region IV, 115th INTC, Fort Douglas, Utah (Reg.)

THOMAS H, ZOELLER

7/31/64

Office:

BUTTE

Field Office File #: 100-8307

Bureau File #: 62-107261

Title:

"MINUTEMEN"

17S219 10298e1700

8-9192 9803RDDICAL

Character:

INFORMATION CONCERNING

(INTERNAL SECURITY)

Synopsis:

ROY GEORGE CROSBY, Jr.,

Missoula, Montana, claims

to have met with ROBERT DePUGH at Idaho Falls, Idaho, about

mid-May, 1964, at which time CROSBY agreed to be Montana

"Minutemen" organizer. DePUGH told CROSBY there are two to

three thousand "Minutemen" in Montana, but CROSBY discounts

this, estimating there might be one thousand; not over 1, 500.

Since mid-May CROSBY has contacted at least 250 individuals

in Montana whom he considers active participating members.

CROSBY will not furnish names.

CROSBY denied membership in

any other organization and claims most "Minutemen" contacted

will have nothing to do with JOHN BIRCH Society as they con-

sider JOHN BIRCH Society an extremist group.

"Minutemen"

correspondence furnished by CROSBY set out.

Additional

activities and contacts of GRANVILLE MCCOLLOUGH and ROBERT Ho

BURNS in Big Timber-Billings, Montana, area described.

BERNARD ALLEN KESSELHEIM, Libby, Montana, denies "Minutemen"

nembership, stating he is a member of JOHN BIRCH Society.

MCCOLLOUGH AND BURNS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND POSSIBLY

DANGEROUS.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

ript come carrero there ded

DocId: 32313456 Page 3

---

## Page 4

BT #100-8307

ACTIVITIES AND CONTACTS OF

GRANVILLE E. MCCOLLOUGH AND

ROBERT H. BURNS IN THE

BILLINGS - BIG TIMBER, MONTANA

ARCA

BT T-1 furnished information on June 8, 1964, that

he was advised on that date by GRANVILLE E. McCOLLOUGH that

a meeting would be held in Billings, Montana, that evening.

At approximately 7:30 p.m., the following individ-

uals met at the Standard

serviCe station

Billings:

ORANVILLE mE COLLOUGTand Avenue,

GRANVILLE

HECOLL OUCH; BILLINGS, MONT

BORN 12-16-1913

_(Identified as

WE CD SILLNESPENT

han identified

BORN (-11-1921

ERNEST WAYNE TRIM) ;

O36 RIVERSIDE BILLINGE

JANES REINKING (Identified

JAMES WHITCOMBREINEKING) ;

41575047

ILLINGS, 20N

DONALD ALBERT

84T GRANDAVE

BILLINGS, MONI

At the station it was decided to hold the meeting

at TIM's residence located at 4036 Riverside, Billings.

Till has a cabinet shop at the rear of his residence and

the above individuals entered the cabinet shop at ten-minute

intervals.

The meeting was conducted by McCOLLOUGH who indi-

cated the purpose of the meeting was for the individuals

present to become acquainted with each other. McCOLLOUGH

- 18 -

DoeId: 32313456 Page 4

---

## Page 5

BT #100-8307

McCOLLOUGH again discussed armor plating a Cadillac

automobile and it was agreed this would be done.

No definite plans were made for another meeting but

McCOLLOUGH indicated he would contact them when the next meet-

ing was to be held.

for some reason

was unable to do so.

MONI

BORN 10-160/93

It was also BT I-l's understanding from comments

made

'by McCOLLOUGH that DONALD WHITNEY's brother, ROY. MANNING

WHITNEY also employed at this service station, is Interested"

ROWHITNEY resides at 2618 Silver in Billings;

DONALD WHITNEY resides at 2419 Golden Boulevard in Billings.

BT T-I also advised on June 8, 1964, that HARLEY

SCROCK Of 732 Miles Avenue, Billings, and employed by the

MON

CONTINENTAL OIL COMPANY, had contacted BT I-l three or four

days ago and asked if he

were interested in joining a vigilante

group in Billings.

He did not further identify the vigilante

group.

SCHRECK purchased a two shot .22 caliber Derringer

Magnum Hi-Standard, Serial #367464, at the time of this con-

versation.

- 22 =

* DoeId: 32313456

Page

---

## Page 6

BT #100-8307

BT I-l furnished the following information on

July 2, 1964:

ROBERT HORATIO BURNS recently left a book with

BT T-1 instructing him to read it and if possible purchase

two or three copies to give to associates

and friends.

The

oook 1s titled "None Dare Call It Treason" by JOHN A. STORMER

and it is published by Liberty Bell Press, P. O. Box #32,

Florissant, Missouri.

BURNS also indicated that he wanted to purchase

additional primers and some 30.06 bullets. Also BURNS is

obtaining an old model Lewis machine gun.

Also he desires

to obtain some cheap shot guns

that could have the barrels

sawed off to twenty inches for use by their group.

INFORMATION CONCERNING AND

INTERVIEW OF BERNARD ALLEN

KESSELHCIM

32

DoeId: 32313456

Page

---

