# docid-32626880

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10323

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files: William H. Brubeck

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : NUFK

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : John F. Kennedy document Control Record

DATE: 5/26/1962

PAGES : 1 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 382: Congo 5/62-7/62. Box 5.

49061

DooId: 32626880

Page

---

## Page 2

INCOMING TELEGRAM Department of State

CONFIDENTIAL

Been

33

Action

IO

Info

Control:

Rec'd:

1.9613

MAY 26, 1962

2:06 PM

G

INR

RMR

FROM: BRUSSELS

TO:

Secretary of State

NO:

2267, MAY 26, 3 PM

ACTION DEPARTMENT 2267 INFORMATION LONDON 577, LEOPOLDVILLE

572, PARIS 598, ELISABETHVILLE 234, USUN 643, USUMBURA 174.

EMBTEL 2094

AMBASSADOR MET WITH LINNER MAY 23 SHORTLY AFTER HIS RETURN

TO BRUSSELS FOR DISCUSSION CONGO AND RUANDA-URUNDI:

CONGO. LINNER HAD. JUST RETURNED TO BRUSSELS FROM VISIT IN

LONDON WHICH HAD LEFT HIM MUCH DISCOURAGED. LORD HOME. HAD MADE

UNEQUIVOCALLY CLEAR TO LINNER UK WOULD VETO ANY RESOLUTION IN

SECURITY COUNGIL WHICH BRITISH GOVERNMENT CONSIDERED COULD

LEAD. TO USE OF FORCE AND HAD BEEN MOST RESISTENT TO LINNERS?

SUGGESTIONS CONCERNING STATIONING UN TROOPS IN KOLWEZI AND

JADOTVILLE. LORD HOME HAD SAID UK CONSIDERED ABSOLUTELY

INDEFENSIBLE USE OF MILITARY FORCE AS MEANS OF FINANCIAL

PRESSURE• IN REPLY LINNER STRESSED THAT UK GOVERNMENT HAD

NOT OPPOSED RESOLUTIONS UNDER WHICH UNOE IS TRYING TO CARRY

OUT ITS PURPOSE AND WAS THEREFORE ILLOGICAL FOR UK: TO TAKE

POSITION OPPOSING PUTTING UN FORCES IN KOLWEZI AND JADOTVILLE,

BUT LORD HOME HAD REITERATED IDEA WAS ABSOLUTELY UNACCEPTABLE.

LINNERS" DISCUSSION WITH BRITISH FINANCIAL INTERESTS HAD

BEEN DIFFICULT BUT HE FELT SLIGHTLY MORE PRODUCTIVE. INITIALLY

HE HAD ENCOUNTERED COMPLETE RESISTANCE FROM CAPTAIN WATERHOUSE

AND TANGANYIKA CONCESSIONS REPRESENTATIVES. THOUGH BY END OF

CONVERSATIONS ATMOSPHERE HAD BECOME MORE PLEASANT AND

TANGANYIKA CONCESSIONS REPRESENTATIVES ALLEGED THAT: THEY NOW

REALIZED UN WAS ATTEMPTING TO REMEDY SITUATION AND TO PROTECT

THEIR INTERESTS NOT DO THEM DAMAGE, LINNER WAS NOT OPTIMISTIC

CONCRETE ACTION WOULD BE FORTHCOMING ALTHOUGH HE FELT THEY NO

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS

CONFIDENTIAL

_ PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

MH 49061 DooId:32626880

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

-2 = 2267, MAY 26, 3 PM FROM BRUSSELS

LONGER REGARDED UN AS ENEMY TANGANYIKA CONCESSIONS

REPRESENTATIVES HAD MADE CLEAR THAT THEY EXERCISED GREAT-

INFLUENCE ON UNHK REPRESENTATIVES IN BRUSSELS AND INTENDED

CONTINUE EXERCISE THAT INFLUENCE ALONG WHAT THEY CONSIDERED

TO BE SOUND LINES, 1.E. AVOIDANCE ANY ACTION. WHICH MIGHT

PRECIPITATE HOSTILITIES IN. KATANGA OR LEAD TO THREATS OF

RETALIATION AGAINST UMAK PROPERTIES.

NONETHELESS, • LINNER HAS NOT ENTIRELY ABANDONED HIS IDEA.

CONCERNING DESIRABILITY TRYING TO BUY TSHOMBE OFF AND

TRYING TO OFFER UMHK PROTECTION BY UN FORCES. HE IS NOW

THINKING. IN TERMS. OF. MIXED UN-UMHK GUARDS: IN OUTLYING

AREAS BUT ADMITS THAT BASIC DIFFICULTY IS WHETHER TSHOMBE

AGREES. IF TSHOMBE AGREES, THERE WOULD PROBABLY BE NO

NEED FOR GUARDS, WHEREAS IF TSHOMBE REFUSES, IT WOULD

PROBABLY NOT BE POSSIBLE OFFER ADEQUATE PROTECTION TO UMAK

OR OTHER BUSINESS INSTALLATIONS. AS FOR SECURING TSHOMBE'S

CONSENT, LINNER ALSO ADMITS THAT IT DOES NOT SEEM POSSIBLE

TO HOPE ALONG LINES OF BUYING TSHOMBE OFF SINCE HE IS

ALREADY DOING. WELL FINALLY. GIVEN ATTITUDE OF BRITISH

FINANCIAL INTERESTS, LINNER WAS CLEARLY DOUBTFUL WHETHER

ANY KIND OF PRESSURE

COULD BE DEVELOPED ON TSHOMBE OR WHETHER

INDUCEMENTS WHICH COULD BE PRESENTED WOULD BE SUFFICIENT TO

MAKE HIM CHANGE HIS MIND. ONE RAY OF HOPE WAS: THAT CAPTAIN

WATERHOUSE IS COMING TO BRUSSELS NEXT WEEK FOR DISCUSSIONS

WITH UMHK, AND LINNER HAS SOME HOPE BELGIANS, WHO ARE

DISTINCTLY MORE FLEXIBLE THAN BRITISH, CAN WEAR DOWN SOME-

WHAT WATERHOUSE RESISTANCE TO ANY FORWARD MOTIONO

RUANDA-URUNDI. AMBASSADOR URGED ON LINNER THAT HE SEEK

EARLY OPPORTUNITY SEE SPAAK RE REACHING SOME FORM GOB-UN

UNDERSTANDING CONCERNING CONTINUATION UN PRESENCE IN RUANDA-

URUNDI IN FORM WHICH.WILL HELP GOB RETAIN IN TERRITORIES

TECHNICIANS AND THOSE TROOPS NECESSARY TO MAINTAIN ORDER.

LINNER AGREED AND SAID HE WOULD SEE SPAAK SOON.

MACARTHUR

RUT

CONFIDENTIAL

НН 49061 DocId:32626880 Page

---

