AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

JFK Assassination System : Date:
Identification Form

4/27/201

Agency Information

FBI
124-10306-10095

HQ

CR 87-84051-37

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1
DocId:32310686 Page 1

Document Information

FBI
ROSEN, A.
DELOACH

12/22/1965
3

NRO, THEFT, STOCK CERTIFICATES, ASSOC, TELCAL,
PURCHASE, SECURITIES

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

05/05/1998

INDEFINITE

INC ADMIN PAGE


tee

UNITED STATES G. ERNMENT :
.. Memorandum

- ts Mir. DeLoach ‘ \. vate December 22, 1965

isn
er ay ve 1 - Mr. DeLoach a as
: ‘d prom: A. roe . 2 : t+ Mr. Wick i
. i ; : 1 = Mr. Coll 44
“a . 1 - Mr. Rosi 1 :
| seuect: FRA UARDI einai yaaney : 1
4 NOR OTHMAN 1 - Mr. Shroder : j |
: THEFT OF $2, 034, 681. 25 1 _ Mr. Schmidt J |
j STOCK CERTIFICATES mar i
aN GOODBODY AND COMPANY . 4
ac NEW YORK CITY - VICTIM y eae
: ,;. » NTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF = = y-*? fetes
: : STOLEN PROPERTY - MAJOR THEFT Bape i

we ean
serene nS flat ra i:

if Chest ray. a con man, has contacted the New York Uffice 4"
roa and advised that he has been in contact with an individual who states
: 7 “ he is in a position to secure the above securities if Gray can locate
ese abuyer. Two Agents from the New York Office and Gray were to
| fly t» Miami, Flor:da, 12-22-05, and an attempted buy was to be made |

the evening of 12-22-65. The departw of the Agents and Gray was
ae delayed awaiting further instructions 1; u.a subject Rot‘inan, who was
peat to contact Gray at the airport in New York at 7:30 p.m. , to perfect
: arrangements for a meet. The cwc, individuals involved, from whom
k the buy is to be made, are Frankie Dlocaard, also known as Exankie
Dig, and Norman Rotl man. note t Dio is the individual arrested
: %-21-65, in conn:ction with the seizure of 209 pounds of heroin by
pee ~. rarcotics agents. He was expected to be released on bond 12-22-65.
7 by Gray
At 8:10 p.m.., 12-22-65, Supervisor Arthur Nehrass, New York
Office, telephonically advised a call had been received at 8:05 p.m.,
12-22-65, from zn individual who stated that he was calling for Rothman.
The caller advised that Rothman would be tied-up and unavailable until
after Il p.m., 12-22-65, after which time, he, Rothman, would call : is
- Chester Gray. The caller further advised that the deal was still on zee
and the bonds were available, but that delivery cannot be made until
after the holidays. He did not elaborate on ho! 5 s, to whether he ae
jaéant after Christmas or New Year's Day. ee Host. 37 j :

soHiaw —f..-" ce
ile @) " oli le fOnt Bein 3 9 fict-23 ro :
aa valyjand SiR ;
o oF ,—LlhmrUrmr— CF

DocId:32310686 Page 2


ae al ate nee merrell

dp 1283-65, ele

eg

Memorandum to Mr. DeLoach
RE: FRANK DIOGUARDI

,

Supervisor Nehrbass advised that Miami had been
apprised of the above facts and they were pulling out their
installation,

jupervisor Nehrbass further advised that in the event
the ll p.m. , contact between Gray and Rothman produced any
material change of the above facts, he would immediately make
the information available to the Bureau. Otherw’ .e, he anticipates
sending a detailed teletype to the Bureau the morning of 12-23-65.
He advised that he would attempt to resolve the use of the word
holidays in the ll p.m, , contact to determine when Rothman can
make delivery of the bonds. : :

t
}
|

ACTION:

None. For information.

ADDENDUM:

: Supervisor Nehrbass advised at 11:50 p.m., 12- 5

that Chester Gray had received a telephone call tron for man Rothman

after Il p.m,, 12~22=65, in which the conversation on the part of

Rothman was guarded due to. the place from which he was calling.

Rothman stated that tl.e stuff" was intatt and Teady to be deliverd

but that “they did not want to. close the deal until Tuesday, December

th. Rothman made reference to the fact that Monday, December 27th,

was a bank holiday in Miami. Rothman advised Gray that he would Bree

call Gray f.9m a public telephone booth at 8:30 a.m. » 12-23-65, tn :

which he coula discuss this matter in greater detail. New York will

submit results of contact between Gray and Rothman by teletype
——— ye

— a

877.

D

