# docid-32626328

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10249

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files: William H. Brubeck

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : NUFK

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : John F. Kennedy document Control Record

DATE : 4/8/1963

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 383: Congo 2/63-7/63. Box 3.

HH

49061

DocId: 32626328

Page

---

## Page 2

12c

CONFIDENTIAL

April 8, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. KAYSEN

SUBJECT: Ed Gullion's Memorandum to the President

There are three paragraphs in Gullion's memorandum which may

differ somewhat from the Department's position. First, in paragraph 3,

Gullion suggests the U.S. will probably have to finance the extra 2000

troops (making a total 8000-man force) which the JCS have suggested

will be necessary to maintain security in the Congo. We, of course,

have not had to face a decision on this issue yet.. We are still trying to

get others to share and we are not going to give up until we have to.

Harlan Cleveland is strongly defending the 32. 02% figure and will continue

to do so for the foreseeable future. As you probably know, the 8000

figure was arrived at by the Pentagon only when State insisted that they

have a hard figure. The Military arrived at the figure on the assumption

that the UN might end up with 8000 of the most ineffectual type of troops,

e.g., Ethiopians and Liberians. The Pentagon readily agree, however,

that 6000 Gurkha-type troops could do the same thing, especially if they

were equipped with helicopters and other modern equipment. Kebede,

as you probably know, is in New York now. He wants very badly to have

a 10, 000-man force and it may be that he can change the Secretary

General's mind. We have no reports of these conversations as yet.

What all of this boils down to is that we may have to have a Presidential

decision on this problem but, if so, it will be some weeks from now

when we can see more clearly what the situation is.

In paragraph 5 of Gullion's memorandum on economic aid, you

will recall that Gullion always has been more pessimistic on this issue

than almost anyone else. Our indications are that the EEC, Belgium,

Germany, and the UK will be more forthcoming than Gullion thinks

they will be. We still do not know what the UK, Italy, and Holland are

going to do. Here again there are too many pieces of the mosaic which

have not yet fallen into place to tell us exactly how we stand but, on

balance, it would seem that Ed js far more pessimistic than warranted

on the basis of the information we now have.

I think that paragraph 8 of the memorandum represents the true

situation.. However, I can assure you that EUR would never have let this

statement through if they had been asked to clear the memorandum.

Certainly, at the moment, the threat of Katangan secession is not serious..

However, with the ever present threat of turmoil in the Congo, there

could be under the right circumstances a renewed attempt by Tshombe &

Co. to make another try at secession.

Samue.

E. Belk

CONFIDENTIAL

NN 49061 DocId:32626328 Page 2

---

