Posts Gov. S188! : Cc pois C aan =
: (

; i FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

DATE

6/19/63

REPORT MADE BY

‘OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/27 6/6/63

H REPORTING OFFICE,

He NEW YORK
fi *VTITLE OF CASE
ae

‘TYPED BY

1

ERANCIS_J,—O'SRIEN
CHARACTER OF CASE C ONY
sab Ue

IS=CUBA
RA-CUBA
NEUTRALITY MATTERS

EY,
E SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF
ESCAMBRAY (SNFE) (OPERATION

PHA 66)
ee

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Conce-.itng JAMES K, COG Ly stoned inthe

details of the enclosed report, it should be noted that
this individual has been interviewed on 2 or 3 occasions
py the NYO and COGSWELL is closely associated with the
Movimiento Revolucionario del Pueblo (MRP) and closely
associated with JOMQUIN GODoY of the MRP. COGSWELL
used to reside in Cuba and was closely associated with
individuals who eventually formed the MRP. COGSWELL has
tried to interest people in New York regarding the activities
of the MRP and has also put advertisements in the New York ms

ars. morticularly the "New York Times", for financial contri-
for ee which were to be sent to Miami, Florida,

Pecan R
arPROvED _ SPECIAL AGED DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

corte MADE: res ,
‘UisBureau (105-112098) (RM) (OS + 112.09 §\- ag7

TT Tamiami (105-6243) (Turo) (RM) feces
: (Tito) (eu) eeeeeiasete RGB
j-New Haven (INFO) (RM) lu 21 1963 ae
Tovashi ca? Gos 50870) (INFO) oon :
«Washington Fie: on
1=San Tuan 105+6133) (INFO) har eM)
1-New York (105-57297)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report.

Notations

Agency

Cisy 5

Request Recd.

Date Fwa
How Fwd,

DoclId:32570064 Page 1


pe
. : 6
Qe. L
NY 105=57297 !
i INFORMANTS:
Identity of Source File Number Where Located
NW T-1 >“ tie = 105-57297-191
CSNY 2822-8 we
AN T-2 i 134-8343
Vest parazn varpes pA C IR)
WW Tas Instant report
Dr, ERNESTO ARAGON page 6.
233 Hast 69th Street
New York City
(deemed advisable)
Ny Tol Instant report
CSNY 3643-8 page 6.
(ADS:
NEWARK, NEW HAVEN, TAMPA, WASHINGTON FIELD, SAN JUAN (INFO
Information copies of this report have been
furnished to Newark, New Haven, Tampa, Washington Field,
and San Juan as they have conducted previous investigation
in this matter,
NEW YORK
aS At New York, New York i
+ : ls: Will’ maintain contaét with CECILIO J, VASQUEZ,
: Public Relations Director of SNFE-Alpha 66,
e 2. Will maintain contact with sources for any 4
developments in this matter. a |

i BY EB
COVER.PAGE

lina at

CoHR ORLA connhe NAL

DoclId:32570064 Page 2
