# docid-32312795

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10325-10044

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-99938-11, 12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: BA

TITLE :

DATE: 10/31/1961

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

CUBAN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC AT

v9.1

DocId: 32312795

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO

SECHE

FBI

11/9/61

EMAN SAK!

(Type in plain text or code)

REGISTERED

• MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr

Mr.

Callahan

Mr.

Conrad

Debrach

Mr.

Evans

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavol

Mr.

.r?'

Tila. Hon

1192912432049454

"NEIN *S UICLASSIZIED EXO

thiss landy

FROM

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

(105-99938)

SAC, NEWARK (105-11521) (C)

CUBAN MATTERS - COUNTERINIELLIGENCE

PROGRAM

IS - CUBA

DONATATE

CLASSIRIED BY 5668-5492

Re Bureau airtal, 10/31/62 Der Aaling Mom Releme

The possibicities suggested py bualreed nave

JOSE SANCHEZ,

MOVEMENT

Although the chances for advancement

SANCHEZ and NK (2266,S are not great at the present time (S.

they have advised that they will exert every possibility

to advance themselves within this organization.

[5] NK(222s was mentioned

by FILIBERTO ROJAS, the

Coordinator at Hoboken, as one of five Individuals as a

potential leader at Hoboken when ROJAS left the United

States on 9/28/61 for Cuba.

Although this informant was

not seleeted, he continues

membership

to be highly regarded by the

However, on 11/8/61, this Informant advised

that he feels that now would not be an advantageous time

to try to advance to a leadership position.

that the leadership is extremely jittery and that if they

feel rightly or wröngly that various leaders might be

In danger of imminent arrest, they would be ordered bac

to cuba. It is noted that the new Coordinator at Hoboken

has been reporded to have fled the United States.

iD OFETERS

OPRIATE AGENCIES

It one was ordered back to cuba, chen no

possible excuse or reason could be possibly be offered

an ahould be orsored a loyal metes for not do

2-Newark

REG. 96

105-09%

1+134-F667)

SECR

RDL: Spa

DECLASSI

NOV 10

1961

(ED BY,

(5)

JUL 2X

1977

Approved:

pers

CHIN

Special Agent ill fharg

a pant is 1.

DocId: 32312795

Page 2

---

