# docid-32300083

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10226-10363

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-266

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/19/1961

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SGI, TRA, LV, ASSOC, MCGUIRE, PHYLLIS, FISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

01/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

179

DocId: 32300083

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CO.

Junl

1961

CETYPE

Mr. Tolson-

Mr. Belmont-

Mr. MohI

Mr. Callahan.

MT. Conrad

Mr. Ranh

Mr.

Mr.

Make

Mr.

Osen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel.

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room.

Mr. Ingram-

Miss Gandy-

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

BY SP5R561

URGEN

6-19-61

8-19 PM CLM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31711

FROM SAG, CHICAGO 192-349 2P

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA, ARO DAILY SUMMARY.

LAS VEGAS AND NEW YORK COMMUNICATIONS HAVE INDICATED THE POSSIBILITY

O A GLANCANA VISIT TO LAS VEGAS TO BE IN CONTACT WITH PHYLLIS

PHYSICAL SURVEILLANCES

ME GUIẤE

• iT#SURES AT O/HARE AIRPORT LAST WEEK AND ON JUNE SEVENTEEN

SIXTY

ON OUTGOING FLIGHIS TO LAS VEGAS, DID NOT REVEAL THE

PRESENCE OF GIANCANA. D. E. STEPHENS, VILLAGE PRESIDENT, ROSEMONT,

ILLE PARÉN PROTÈCT IDENTITY END PAREN ADVISED THAI GIANCANA HAS

BEEN OBSERVED BY HIM HOLDING LUNCHEON MEETINGS AT THE THUNDERBOLT

MOTEL ON NUMEROUS OCCASIONS DURING PAST THREE WEEKS. LAST OBSERVED

AT THE MOTEL DURING MIDDLE OF LAST WEEK, ACCOMPANIED BY ANTHONY J. €

ACCARDO, AND OTHERS UNIDENTISK ROS RECHENS FURTHER ADVISED THAT H

92. -

HAS NOI NOTED ANY WIRESERVICE ACTIVITY AI THE AIRLINER LOUNGE,

HIS VILLAGE, AND SAID HE HAS PLACED STOP WITH MIDDLE STATES TELEPHONE

CO. TO BE ALERTED IN THE EVENT ANY UNUSUAL ACTIVITY TAKES PLACE THERE.

END PAGE ONE

9-84

55

A 991000/2

DocId: 32300083 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

REFERRING AGAIN TO THE THUNDERBOLT MOTEL, STEPHENS RELATED THAT THE

THUNDERBOLT DEFINITELY PLANS THE ADDITION OF FORTY EIGHT ROOMS.

HE SAID THAT ON PRACTICALLY EVERY OCCASION THAT HE HAS OBSERVED

GIANCANA, HE HAS BEEN ACCOMPANIED BY HIS BROTHER, JOSEPH QUOTE

PEPE END QUOTE GIANCANA, EXCEPT ONE, WHEN HE WAS ACCOMPANIED BY

QUOTE A GORGEOUS BLONDE END QUOTE. CHARLES GIANCANA CONTACTED

THIS DATE, ADVISED HE HAS NOT SEEN GIANCANA RECENTLY. PCI GLADYS

EBLE ADVISED THIS DATE THAT GIANCANA WAS SEEN AT THE ARMORY LOUNGE

ON IWO OCCASIONS LAST WEEK, ACCOMPANIED BY AN UNKNOWN FEMALE, FURNISHED

THE LICENSE NUMBER OF THE VEHICLE, WHICH IS BEING CHECKED OUT.

CARMEN FANELLI, OWNER, ARMORY LOUNGE, SURVEILLED THIS DATE TO ARLINGTON

PARK RACE TRACK, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS WIFE. FANELLI PARKED HIS VEHICLE,

100K KEYS WITH HIM. ATTEMPT MADE THIS DATE TO CONTACT CHARLES

BARON, WHOM LAS VEGAS ADVISED IS PRESENTLY IN CHICAGO. AGENTS WERE

ADVISED BARON IS NOT YET IN, EXPECTED SHORTLY INVESTIGATION CONTINUING.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

END

DocId: 32300083

Page

---

