JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
To:

TITLE :

DATE:
‘PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

val

DocId:32301561 Page 1

Date:

6/4/2015

Agency Information

FBI
124-10278-10396

HQ

97-4474-77

Document Information

FBI
SAC, MM
DIRECTOR, FBI

12/26/1963
14

MIRR, ACA, MEMBERS, AIRPLANE, BOAT, RAID, CUBA, MIL
ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

07/30/1998

INDEFINITE

INC LHM



+F, (Rev. 12-13-56) «

ses FBI
REVIEWED ay Sovarx JAGR FORGE,

Ths Date:
(Type in plain text or code)
AIRMAIL

12/26/63

4

Transmit the following in, :
a

eee i PART

ity or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

Re Miami airtel to Bureau, sana tte
| teletype to Bureau, 12/24/63.

Enclosed are twelve copies of a LHM, dated and
captioned as above.

Copies of this LHM are being furnished locally
to INS, State Department, Border Patrol, Customs (local
and regional), Coast Guard, G-2, ONI, OSI, CIA, and FAA,
in addition to the USA, Miami.

The Miami Office has also been in frequent ‘
contact with Mr. GREGG BENTLEY, Special Branch, Bahamian
Police, Nassau, with regard to all pertinent developments.
On 12/24/63, Mr. BENTLEY flew to Miami for a conference
with Agents of this office, and he was introduced to Mr,
EDWARD FICKIE and Mr. STANLEY SCHACHTER, U. S, Customs,
who subsequently made arrangements to place a U. S. Customs
official in Bimini to work directly with _Mr. BENTLEY on the
scheduled date of this Speration. ts y ae ra

REC- f :
Mr, FICKIE has also a&vised’that U. S. ‘Custonts

has three boats which will be used to intercept this
operation and to prevent the boat from successfully leaving
the Miami waters. One of these boats is a 95!

3 - Bureau (Ene, 12) (aM) (RM)
na
ym cavcieadled @
fi ~~ ONI/OSI, ‘ACSI

TO:
FROM: SAC, MIAMI (105-2855) (P)
SUBJECT: MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE b-u-4
RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (ann) ®
. iS - CUBR Aud HA f CONTAINED,
NM male 1S YNC

ey oft |
and aby

ani
FAG

Coast Gyand
Ke b

é

“)

7

DocId:32301561 Page 2


AC RELEASE IN FULL “FBI

scopiireasieet VC annd i : 1
i Ee re V-EBHJFK TASK f E ce .
1
\ diem
1
{

C1 RELEASE IN PART
7 2/26,

[TOTAL DENIAL ee
Transmit the following in ty
(Type in plain text or code) H
Via AIRTEL AIRMAIL 1
(Priority or Method of Mailing) 1
pt ttre ee L

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

(2 Yb FRom: SAC, MIAMI (105-2855) (P) — we : oe hy
y SUBJECT: MOVINTENTO INSURRECTONAL DE. -W-94 repels C
_RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR) Fate i C|
f Is"- Cupar pu teen AINE,

af)
Re Miami airtel to Bureau, 12/19/63, and Miam

teletype to Bureau, 12/24/63.

Enclosed are twelve copies of a LHM, dated and
fee captioned as above.

‘Copies of this LHM are being furnished locally

- to INS, State Department, Border Patrol, Customs (local 4
and regional), Coast Guard, G-2, ONI, OSI, CIA, and FAA, i

in addition to the USA, Miami. é

1 : ps, i
Mr, FICKIE has also Bivised’ that u. 8. Gusto 7
has three boats which will be used. to intercept this

operation and to prevent the boat from successfully leaving
the Miami waters. One of these boats is a 95' Coast @

ty Bureau (Enc. 12) (AM) (RM)
-) - Miami : B oe
CED rete ¥ te: Cli/Sicta,
WEEE ATE Cy wy =
‘ Kathe PP Peres Y

ule LA ent ies" " by per :
Spagig! Avent in Charge

if ee : Sasi ee

Fonssan

; DocId:32301561 Page 3


MM 105-2855

boat which will maneuver well off shore. The other two
boats will be located in strategic areas closer to shore.
In the event the Cuban boat succeeds in evading inter-
eeption, the British will be ee to seize the plane
and the boat at Bimini.

Due to information furnished by MM T-1 concern-
ing the boat obtained by WILLIAM JOHNSON for this operation
on behalf of BOSCH, U. S. Customs feels this boat is the
"Ebb Tide,".a 28' sports fishing vessel with a flying bridge
powered by one motor, JOHNSON has been observed by U. S.
Customs aboard this boat during the periods of time that
MM T-1.reported JOHNSON was scheduled to be in contact with
the boat selected by BOSCH.

MM T-1 is EVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ, 3625 N. W. llth -
St., Miami, a former Cuban commercial pilot.

Miami has instructed MM T-1 to -advise this office
immediately of all further pertinent developments. The:
Bureau and appropriate local agencies will be promptly .
informed of subsequent developments.

The Miami Office has been furnishing oral inform-

ation immediately to the necessary local agencies on.a
current basis pursuant to Bureau instructions,

-2-

> AAYRARNS

i
{
(
(

DocId:32301561 Page 4



UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CIA HAS Hal ee

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No, Miami, Florida DECI.
December 26, 1963 AELESS os AMATION
: IN TANS Go. MENT.
KP a-5-494¢

Re: MOVIMIENTO INSURRECTONAL DE %0/K52
RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA 2-19-97
(MIRR) (JFK)
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA
NEUTRALITY MATTER

Previous information furnished by MM T-1,
.. & Cuban oxkle whe,has been involved in anti-Fidel Castro

4 activit, veral years, reflects that Doctor

a Orland, aes vale. head of head of the Movimiento Insurrecional

J ecuperact Revolucionaria (MIRR), an anti-Fidel
Castro organization of Cuban exiles, has been planning
a bombing raid against an oil refinery at Nuevitas,
Camaguey Province of Cuba. This raid was originally
scheduled for the night of December 14, or 15, 3963.
It was then postponed, and as of December 18, 1963,
Bosch indicated the last and final practive flight in an
Aero Commander airplane, registration N26-24-B, preparatory
to the raid would take place on the night of December 20,
1963, at Broward International Airport in Florida,

On mber 20, 1963, MM T-1 advised that
‘ EveligfAlpiz Perez; the Cuban pilot scheduled to
: pilot’ the plane in this bombing raid, went to Broward
te International Airport where Charles Bush, owner of the
Aero Commander, informed the pilot that one of the
. motors of the plane had "burned out," and the plane

y could not be flown without extensive motor repairs.

: MM T-1 said that the pilot, Alpizar, examined the plane
and verified that one of the motors was in fact not oper-~
able. Bush promised he would make another plane avail-
able to Doctor Orlando Bosch,

On the sggfe day, MM T-1 learned that someone
other than Charlgs7Bush would pilot whatever plane was
_-* selected from Browdrd International Airport to Bimini,
peaiters Bahama Islands, preparatory to the bombing raid. The
individual selected to pilot this plane would park the

plane on the Bimini airport and register at a hotel in

the town of Bimini, leaving the plane unattended over-

: z ALD be,
ALL nraon hee
HEED i

DocId:32301561 Page 5


FAA
FTVEWE? 2Y BBYVJFK TASK FORCE

cs Blue dae

Re: MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE. Ww Rov 2aor av FULL
im}
o

re

#

a RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR) EASE iN PART
: INTERNAL SECURITY - ‘CUBA; ;
NEUTRALITY MATTER TOTAL DENIAL

night. The raiding party. was scheduled to arrive by boat
at Bimini under cover of darkness from Miami and load the
plane with bombs and then fly it from Bimini to the target
in Cuba. They would then return. to Bimini, still under
cover of darkness, and return by. boat to Miami after
Praia the plane at the same place where they had taken

* On December 22, 1963, MM T-1 advised that Charles
Bush informed Alpizar that he would substitute a Piper
-- Aztec plane for the Aero Commander, MM T-l said that Bush
_ such a plane at his company at Broward International
rport.

: ., On December 23, 1963, Mr. Fay Linehan, Super-
vising Inspector, Federal Aviation Agency, Miami, advised
that Charles Bush has leased a Piper Aztec plane bearing
registration N4811-P from the Fleet Rental Leasing Corpor. .
ation, Box 948, Clarkesburg, West Virginia, effective in
April, 1963. Mr. Linehan advises this is the Aztec plane
which Bush maintains at his place of business.

On December 23, 1963, MM T-1 advised that

Doctor Bosch advised that the boat which he planned to use
in transporting the airplane crew and the bombs from Miami
to Bimini would depart from Miami on Christmas Day at about
10:00 a.m. or 12:00 a.m. He said this boat has a speed of
only 10 miles per hour, and consequently would have to
depart early in the day instead of during the evening as
was originally ‘planned had a faster boat been obtained.
Bosch said the plane would leave later in the day after
receiving a radio signal from the boat that everything was

proceeding according to plan. tye ue
MM T-1 said that wsrrtgdGonnnon, who made

arrangements for the securing ofthis boat on behalf of
Bosch, disclosed that the Coral Gables canal would be a
better place to depart from than the place which Bosch had
in mind, :

~2-

DocId:32301561 Page 6


{

Ret MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE
RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA;
NEUTRALITY MATTER

Later on December 24, 1963, MM T-1 said that
Bosch announced to his party that it had become neces~
sary again to postpone the bombing raid from December
25, 1963, to a later date due to rough seas which would
endanger the boat. One of Bosch's associates indicated
that the boat would probably leave Miami on,Friday,
December 27, 1963. (It is to be noted that a cold front
swept over the Miami area on the. early morning of
December 24, 1963, and seas were reportedly rough.)

On December 26, 1963, MM T-1 advised that the
pilot Alpizar would take both an afternoon and night
practice flight with the Piper Aztee plane in possession
of Charles Bush at Broward International Airport. Bosch
provided money to the pilot for the flight.

MM T-1 said that Bosch diselosed that the boat
is now scheduled to depart Miami hetween 5:30 p.m. and
6:00 p.sm. on December 27, 1963, for Bimini. T-1 said
there will be no additional practice flights by the pilot
after December 26, 1963. .

It is to be noted that on December 26, 1963,
the skies in the Miamil area were clear and sunny, and
weather conditions were reportedly favorable at sea.

On December 20, 1963, MM T-1 advised that
Doctor Bosch planned to have the raiding party drop
propaganda leaflets over Cuba. MM T-1 furnished the
propaganda leaflet, which 4s in the Spanish language and
which has been translated as follows:

DocId:32301561 Page 7
