# docid-32295980

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10216-10256

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2717-413

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/01/1961

3

ABR, ASSOC, B/F INT, CO., BKG, PEP

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32295980

Page 1

119

---

## Page 2

PH 92-444

JIMMY is purchasing the interest of a third party

in the meat provisions business named RAY.

Negotiations

continue to obtain a loan.

Attorneys involved are GEORGE

DE ANGELIS and SONNY LIPSHITZ (phonetic) POLLINA is

entering into the business.

It

appears business will be

operated legitimately.

MARIO MAGGIO instrumental in

obtaining loans for purchase of business.

He has previously

stated his desire to have POLLINA "out of here,

meaning

away from the Maggio Cheese Company. BRUNO was offered

this business interest in the meat provisions, but could not

invest because of pressure of Government investigation.

On 11/29/61, it was stated that at 7 p.m., 11/30/61,

there was

a meeting to sign papers

regarding this business

purchase: POLLINA wanted MARIOneero to attend meeting.

The objective is to have JIMMy with purchase of RaY's

interest, gain control of the corporation and oust SAMUEL

REPECI.

On 11/28/61, BRUNO associate MICKEY TINITSKY, aka.,

held a lengthy conversation with MARION MAGGIO:

• Purpose

of the visit was to have MARIO ship 1,000 pounds of cheese

weekly to SAMUEL EDELMAN, Miami, Fla. EDELMAN is brother-

in-law of J. RATTELMAN, whom PH 909-C has previously

identified as insurance broker who had some connection

with BRUNO's insurance payment for gambling casino damage

in Havana, Cuba.

MARIO MAGGIO later identified this

shipment of cheese as being worth $50,000 per year.

MARIO MAGGIO inquired of MICKEY as to the health

Of MOISH (PH 535-C). MICKEY said that "ANGE" BRUNO wanted

to open a restaurant in Atlantic City a couple of years ago.

He said CHARLES SCHWARTZ, former Philadelphia subject, had

a restaurant in Florida next to Momma Leoni's. SCHWARTZ

believed that gambling 1s going to be legalized in Florida.

MICKEY does not think so, even though Dade County wants

gambling. MICKEY commented that,

"It looks like they're

going to legalize gambling in Hot Springs, Arkansas.

He described a club in Hot Springs, The Vapors, as worth

a million and a half with big-time shows costing $10,000

to $15,000 weekly.

Said gambling was wide open in Hot

Springs. MARIO said,

"Where the H--- is the FBI out there?

Let some poor (obscene) write numbers here and they are on

said that FAUBUS must own a piece of the

joint

comes. to

town he stays

- 2 -

DocId: 32295980

Page 2

---

