# docid-32332870

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90104-10168

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2940-45

Released under the John

F. kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:MM 56792

Date:

4-10-2018

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/19/1959

31

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HH 56792

13

DocId: 32332870

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PG 92-226

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following individuals are presently being utilized by

the Pittsburgh Office in the SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA

investigation:

PG 573-C, who is extremely friendly with the

GENOVESE

brothers

and particularly FIORE GENOVESE,

younger brother of MIKE GENOVESE, and who is

presently being utilized for the general coverage

of the Red Eagle Club and its visitors.

JFK Act 6 (4)

a paI of the pittsburgh otrices

who is well acquainted with most of Pittsburgh's

top hoodlums and who was formerly employed as a

waitress in the Red Eagle Club, once known as the

renovese Cocktail Lounge, 412 Larimer Ave., Pitts-

burgh.

She still visits

this establishment anc

in constant contact with MIKE GENOVESE and

other members of Pittsburgh's racketeering element

in her fole as a medium-priced prostitute.

Is presently travelling with MRS. JULIA MINTZ, widow

of. JAKEMMINTZ, CO-owner of EZZARD CHARLES, former

World's heavyweight boxing champion.

She

is presently

being utilized for the coverage of the GENOVESE-

LA ROCCA-NELSON interests.

JFK Act 6 (4)

a PCI who is presently very

active in Plitsburgh numbers operations and who

was arrested during the month of August, 1958,

in connection with his operation.

intimately acquainted with many Pittsburgh top

hoodlums and racketeers through association

with them when they began their racket careers.

He is presently being utilized for coverage of

the GENOVESE-NELSON interests and isvalsgecontributing

information regarding the VOLPE brothers who are

close associates. of GENOVESE and LA. ROCCA.

JFK Act 6 (4)

a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office

presently engâged in racket activity in the City of

Pittsburgh who is being utilized for general coverage

of lottery and numbers operations in the Pittsburgh area.

-B-

COVER PAGE

JEK Act 6 (4)

+0 100-10188

HH 56792 DocId:32332870 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-226

JFK Act 6 (4)

a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office who

Is part owner oi the notorious gambling establishment

at Chester, W.Va., known as Club 30, who is being

utilized for

Information concerning the club and

the interest

in it of Pittsburgh hoodlums associated

with both LA ROCCA and GENOVESE.

JEK Act 6 (4)

_a PCI of the Pittsburgh office

who is being utilized for information concerning

Pittsburgh prostitution activities and as a check

on the activities of

JEK Act 6 (4)

'AL BUCK, former Allegheny County Detective and now

Vice-president of the Fidelity Trust Company, Loan

Department, Pittsburgh, who is being utilized for his

knowledge of the Bankers Exchange in Pittsburgh

from which he can obtain information regarding bank

loans made to Pittsburgh top hoodlums. : BUCK is

also familiar with the activities of

several of

pittsburgh's top hoodlums, particularly those of

LA ROCCA, from having worked on criminal matters

for many years in the City of Pittsburgh.

JEK Act 6 (4)

a confidential source of the Pittsburgh

Office who is being utilized for information concerning

the MANNARINO organization in New Kensington, Pa., and

who is also furnishing information regarding tieups

with the GENOVESE organization in Pittsburgh.

JFK Act 6 (4)

a confidential source of the

Pittsburgh Office who was extremely helpful to

Pittsburgh Agents during the investigation of the

RALPH KINER extortion, investigation several years

ago and whose brother-in-law, NORMAN FARBER, is

a member of the MANNARINO organization.

In an effort to increase criminal informant coverage,

che Pels under development are being contacted on a

continuing and regular basis so that information obtained

from them amay be used on a day-to-day basis in connection

with spot surveillances of the establishments frequented

by the subject when he is in the Pittsburgh vicinity.

-C-

COVER PAGE

+0184-10888

HH 56792 DocId:32332870 Page 3

---

## Page 4

AJEK Law 10(a)2

PG 92-226

PITTSBURGH

AT PITTSBURGH, PA., (ALLEGHENY COUNTY)

1)

Will set out appropriate leads on tangible results

obtained from a mail cover placed for the month of

March, 1959, on the residence of subject at Ingomar,

Fa.,

with the Postal Inspector at the Pittsburgh Post

office.

2) Will continue to conduct discreet surveillances of

subject whenever practicable to note pertinent contacts

made 'by him.

3) Will maintain contact with the officers of the

McCanaless Township Police Department and arrange for

immediate notification by them of any unusual activity

in the vicinity of the LA ROCCA residence.

4) Will maintain close liaison with HUBERT I. TEITELBAUM,

Sm top so that any pertinent infexpatron ques venin

during questioning

af these individuals delore the rederal Grand Jury on or

may be acted upon immediately. and other

offices advised as the situation permits.

5) Will regularly contact established PCIS so that

ample coverage may be afforded the LA ROCCA-GENOVESE-

NELSON Interests and will, through this established

coverage, endeavor to ascertain the specific whereabouts

Of LA ROCCA since December, 1957.

6) Will check the list of toll calls made from Forest

4-5296,

the home telephone of LA ROCCA, for the names

i racket associates and personal business contacts of

subject not now known to the Pittsburgh office, and will

further identify and obtain appropriate background of

subscribers to telephone numbers called.

7) Will maintain contact with the offices of the

Pittsburgh Offices of the U. S. Marshal, INS, and

that any new developments

concerning their interests in this matter will be received

immediately. •

-E-

COVER PAGE

9219440-45200

HH 56792 DocId:32332870 Page 4

---

## Page 5

F'DD-201 (Rev. 9-23-58)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy 10:

Date:

Report of ARE 059

VOEGE

File Number: PITTSBURGH 92-226

Title:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA

Office: PITTSBURGH

BUREAU 92-2940

JEK Law 10(a)2

Character: ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

returned to Pittsburgh, Pa., vicinity on or

about 2/6/59 and was promptly served with four subpoenas

before Flu, SiDy, and Attorney deneralls Special Group

canceled so that

may appear before FGJ at

national top hoodlum, on or about

Pittsburgh, advises representative of Attorney General's

Special Group will be present on this occasion. Date

has not been set for appearance of subject before U. S.

Senate Select Committee on Improper Activities in the

Labor or Management Field. LA ROCCA advised Bureau

Agent on 3/9/59 that he could not answer questions

without approval and presence of Attorney VINCENT CASEY

wout indicated he would remain in Pittsburgh area.

During conversation he lost composure when questions

posed concerning his affiliation with Mafia and

citizenship status.

Efforts being made to determine

whereabouts of LA ROCCA and GABRIEL MANNARINO during

absence from Pittsburgh. IN VIEW OF THE CONVICTION

OF SUBJECT FOR ASSAULT WITH INTENT TO KILL AND HIS

ARREST FOR CARRYING A CONCEALED WEAPON, HE MAY BE

ARMED AND SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

-P-

93-3940-415

10(a)0)

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of any kind. It is the property of the FBl, and is a loan to your agencyi

it and/or its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

0{18-7462521

HH

56792 DocId:32332870 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-226

THOMAS A. MC QUAIDE, Identification Officer, Pittsburgh,

March 2, 1959, GEORGE

para Police Department MOON MESSER arch 11, 1959, that

on

associate and

business

close Iriena of LA ROCCA, appeared in Allegheny

County Court on numbers charges.

He stated that MESSER was

fined $100 and costs on one count and $200 and costs on a

second count, bringing the total to $427:00.

HUBERT I. TEITELBAUM, U. S. Attorney, Western District of

Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh, advised SA VOEGE on March 12,

1959, that

JEK Law 10(a)2

had been subpoenaed

to appear before a Federal Grand Jury

sitting atl

during the week of

and would be requested

to answer questions relating to

criminal activity in

JEK Law 10(a)2

D. LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES

ARTHUR D. "ARCHIE" NELSON, former Pittsburgh top hoodlum

who is presently in partnership with MIKE GENOVESE, was

observed watching

the construction of his new motel during

a surveillance by SA. VOEGE on February 17, 1959. Upon

contactes NELSON?

who was driving a white 1957 Cadillac

sedan bearing 1958 Pennsylvania license 1020J, advised that

construction is proceeding according to plan and that he

visualizes completion of the project during the first week of

August, 1959.

He said he has a six-month construction

contract with a masonry contractor named ZAMPARANA (phonetic)

from Fox Chapel, Pa., but that the contract is merely a

gentlemen's agreement with no penalty clauses attachea.

He indicated that the builder submitted the lowest of

six construction bids after he and GENOVESE had advertised

in the trade journals and had further guaranteed that he

could do the job in approximately six months, barring

personnel injuries, equipment breakdown and inclement

weather.

NELSON advised that his motel would consist of fifty-

three compact units in the shape of a "y" with the open

end facing the highway and would be of two-level construction.

931394054151

1.000

HH

56792 DocId: 32332870 Page 6

---

## Page 7

JFK Law 10(a)2

PG 92-226

He advised that on February 6,1959, however, he received

information from an attorney who has handled many matters

for both GENOVESE and LA ROCCA and whose name is VITO

RICH, that|

was then at home and was awaiting

the arrival of the U. S. Marshal to serve him with what-

ever subpoenas were outstanding against him. He stated

that be immediately proceeded to

with two subpoenas which

he had been holding for approximately one year. He

described the first as a subpoena for the appearance of

before. the Federal Grand Jury for the l

regard to an alleged violation of |

to testify and give evidence in

and the second as a subpoena for the appear-

ance of

before the U. S. Senate Select Committee

on Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Field.

DIMEOLO could furnish no information regarding the where-

abouts of LA ROCCA during his disappearance from the

Pittsburgh area and advised that he did not think it was

his duty to ask him such a question.

He stated, however,

that LA ROCCA had promised him that

he would be available

in Pittsburgh for whatever came up in the future and was

"sick of running."

• He said LA ROCCA also advised him

that he would proceed to valleyeRorge. Academy at Wayne,

pa., on that date to visit his adopted son and indicated

that he would go by car.

HUBERT 1. TELTELBAUM, U.S. Attorney, western District

Pittsburgh, advised sA VoEGEMn March 12,

1959, that he had been visited by two attorneys representing

the Attorney General's Special Group and that they had

worked out a means whereby

would appear before a

Federal Grand Jury sitting at

during the week

of

He stated that this appearance would

cancel two previously-scheduled appearances before a

Federal Grand Jury for, thel

which

was to appear on

at

He stated that in all probability,

associate,

and his close

who was successfully

JEK Law 10(al2

113+

40-45920(9)2)

HH 56792 DocId:32332870 Page 7

---

## Page 8

JEK Law 10(a)2

PG 92-226

served with subpoenas by the U. S. Marshal for the Western

District of Pennsylvania on March

4, 1959.

will

appear

before the Federal Grand Jury at

on

and that either one or two representatives of the

Attorney General's Special Group will be present at the

hearing although he will ask the pertinent questions...

He said

that no date has been set as far as he knows

the appearance of

for

ror

before the

Senate Labor. Rackets Committee.

TETIELBAUM indicated that

Attorney for

indicated to him that

were extremely hesitant about appearing. in

and preferred to appear in

despite the

publicity such an appearance would create.

TEITELBA UM

said he did not know why the racketeers feared an

appearance in

unless they connected it with

the incarceration of their close associates, the

VALENTI brothers.

He said that he indicated to

that if

invoke: the Fifth Amendment

when asked questions regarding anything other than their

name and address

he would see to it that they appeared

in

regardless of their wishes..

Surveillances Conducted Relating to

This Investigation

Spot surveillances were conducted on February 6, 9, 16,

18 and 27, 1959, and on March 5, 10 and 13, 1959, at

900 West Ingomar Road,

ingomar,

Pa.; 12 McCandless St.,

Pittsburgh; and at 500 North Craig St., Pittsburgh, by

SA VOEGE. Nothing of interest to this investigation,

other than what has already been set forth, was observed

during these spot surveillances.

Efforts Made to Determine Whereabouts of

LA ROCCA and Associate GABRIEL MANNARINO

During Their Absence From the Pittsburgh,

Pa.,. Area

The Baltimore Office advised on February 26, 1959, that

the following investigation was

conducted in Washington

County, Mã.,. by SA ROBERT I. MC ENROE:

14

90294

10(9) 62)

56792 DocId: 32332870 Page 8

---

## Page 9

PG 92-226

INFORMANT PAGE

PG I-I IS H. W. GLENN, Postal Inspector, Pittsburgh,

Pa., Post Office, who

was contacted on March lê, 1959,

by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE and who has requested

identity. be concealed.

PG T-2 IS GEORGE "MOON" MESSER,

a potential criminal

informant of the Pittsburgh Office who was contacted

- on February 26, 1959, by SA VOEGE.

PG I-3 iS PAUL WILLIAMS, Manager of the First National

Bank of Mercer County, Farrell Office, Farrell, Pa.,

which bank is the successor of the S. J. Gully. Bank of

Farrell. WILLIAMS was contacted by SA HOBART C. LOVETT

on February 13, 1959, and requested that his identity

be concealed.

PG. T-4, 1s

JEK Act 6 (4)

a potential criminal

informant of the Piütsburgh Orfice, who was contacted

on February 27, 1959, by SA VOEGE.

-24-

do10A-0108

56792

DocId:32332870

Page

---

