# docid_32307127

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10291-10267

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 97-4546-23

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/27/1964

PAGES:

68

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

MR, CORRELATION SUMMARY, SEE REFERENCES, AKA,

BKG, EMP, ASSOC, AFFIL, CUBAN EXILE GROUPS, ACA,

TESUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

1B; 1C; 4

Redact

06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 1

33

---

## Page 2

SECRETI

On 5/26/59, WF 1133-S* learned that Cuban Economic Attache (S

Gonzalo de la Pezuela and Roberto Acosta, Vice President in charge

of the Cuban National Commission for Development, had received

instructions from Cuba to immediately make arrangements at the Export

Import Bank, Washington, D. C., for a loan of "several million

dollars" for Cuba. The

was to be used for the purchase of

unidentified equipment for Cuba. According to the source

the

request for this loan

had the approval of several Cuban officials,

including Manuel Ray• (F

62-60269.0704

Embassy of Cuba, Washington, D. C., is the subject of

62-60269-196(s)

2)1

On 7/15/60, Angel Sebastian Ros Escala advised that he came

to the US on 5/19/60,

He stated that he had worked for the July 26

With Manolo Ray, an action group leader.

Ros continued that around March, 1959, he and several

others organized the Movimiento De Recuperacion Revolucionario (MRR)

(97-4133)

as an underground anti-Castro organization.

He indicated

that he became general coordinator of the MRR and that his work

recruiting and planning to fight against

Castro. He related that he also worked for three or four months

(dates not given) for Manolo Ray, the anticommunist head of the public

works.

position in the same department. 'Ray was succeeded

When Ray was arrested around November, 1959, yOresigned his

97-4133-20

(21)V

An ONI

Havana, report dated 11/2/59 revealed that Huber

Matos (105-82086) had decided to remain in Camaguey rather than flee

to the States inasmuch as he might be able to do more in ridding the

night be.

Revolutionary Group of communism.

Source stated that Matos' awareness

of the communistic influence

in

the Government was alerted by Manola

Ray, Minister of Public Works.

NIS

source further stated that Ray and (W)

REVIEWED BY EPITUFK TASK FORCE

(continued on next page)

ON

6 - 13-97 043/2P

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

SECRET

• TOTAL DENIAL

-4-

MW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 2

---

## Page 3

(continued)

SLCRED

It was noted in this telegram that "Diego", as a leader in

the havana underground during the Batista period, might have been

close to Ray and might

actually be working for him at present.

On 10/17/60,

Cuban Minister, of Public Works, was a member of the underground in

underground in Cuba.] State Department files failed to indicate

this informant advised that Ray was head of the

whether Manolo Ray was identical to Manuel Ray. X%

105-92195-6 p. B, 1,3

(6)

SI par 3

105-92195-5 p. 11

(23)

On 10/17/60 WF 1161}S named several individuals who had

either joined or exhibited interest in joining the anti-Castro

(a)

organization called the Resistencia Civica (97-4481)•

Among these

was Raul Chibas, former head of the Cuban Railroads who was bellevec

by the informant to be currently residing in NYC.

This informant advised that Chibas was in contact with the

Rebel underground in Cuba, particularly with Manuel Ray. Informant

continued that through the association of Chibas and Ray, the Resistencia

Civica in the US was apprised of the current political and economic

situation in Cuba and of the continuing unrest of the Cuban people/AM

97-4481-1 p. 2

(3) V

be ready to invade Cuba by 11/1/60.

after US elections on 11/8/60 to avoid the matter becoming an election

issue; however, it would be launched before the new President took

office.in order that there would be no criticism against the new

prosident. (f(U)

(continued on next page)

-8-S=CRET

HH 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 3

---

## Page 4

=

• SEChEI•

(continued)

The above source and the contingent that he accompanied to the US

planned to side with the MRP faction since they appeared to have

received some sort of US aid and sanction in their joint efforts.

It was their plan to contact Ray personally upon their release from

the detention facility at McAllen in an effort to consolidate all

such opposition groups in a united front to combat Castro• ( U)

95-38715-7 80 8.1 DEGS, 00. 10-2277

тту /ET: D

raptong protect an on posa guan at an at organ ye)

zations, (protect identity) advised that Hector Garcia Soto had indicated

around February, 1961, that he was secretly anti-Castro and was working

for Manolo Ray in the MRe.

the governmental reforms Castro put into effect and believed in

Castro's system of government but did not agree with communism and

the influence it had in the Cuban Government. (&) (71)

105-80787-376

p. 8,10

(22)V

On 2/2/61, Spencer Meredith, Apt. 17, Vanta Courts, S• W•

12th Ave. and 20th St., Miami, advised that Rufo Lopez Fresquet,

Anita Whitney (105-97525) and who recently

defected from the Castro regime, was closely associated with

Manolo Rey and Raul Chibas of the MRP. 'y)

105-97525-1

(45)V

On 2/6/61, Rufo Lopez Fresquet (64-44765), 2118 12th Ave.

West, Bradenton, Fla., former President-of the Cuban National Bank,

advised that the MRP did not have an organization in the US but that

there were several members of the organization in the US and Puerto

Rico in exile.

Among those he named

was Manuel Ray (or Rey), Miami,

Fla., phone TU 8-0978. 1'1

64-44765-17

(21,45)V

SECRET

-12-

NW 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

By letter dated 3/16/61 at Miami, Howard Davis, 450 S• W.

4th St., Miami, NM 639-S, (134-6356) advised President John F. Kennedy

of the current Cuban situation.

Concerning Manuel Ray, he stated that

during

meetings the previous week in NX and Washington,

Ray actively

DE

participated in the future destiny of Cuba. He also stated that

Ray was an avowed enemy of the US and that

he had heard Ray discussing

his program with other Cubans. Ray advocated that properties confiscated

from American citizens and corporations were not to be returned to

their rightful owners; that no independence be given to the judicial

power; that special Revolutionary Tribunals be kept functioning; and

that Cuba

honor Castro's commercial, cultural and political treaties

with Russia, Red China and

their satellites in order to block American

influence in the Republic.

Informant called attention to the fact that while the

youth of Cuba fought against the brutal tyranny of international

i to not

communism, Cuban "leaders" such as Ray and others in the US were

egoistically campaigning for the Presidency, the several Ministries

and bureaucratic positions, publicly claiming that they had the

(2)

support of American officials and, by inference, of the US Government (

Above letter set outh

134-6356-42 -

2(2)

(19)V

advised that he arrive a the tomote e

Hialean, Fla.,

He indicated

that during the period of his employment by the Banco Finaciero,

Havana, Cuba, from 1959 to March, 190l, he began working in the

underground against Castro with the MRP and became acquainted with

the organization's leaders, Antonio Veciana and Manuel Rey•

that upon his arrival in the US, he dropped out of the MRP but

later became a member of Comandos L (105-117222) in Miami.'

105-117222-71 p. 75

(46)V

On 3/30/61, Roberto Fabian Armand Borrego, Miami, advised

that he fled

from Cuba recently because he was wanted by the Cuban

Government for involvement in counterrevolutionary activities.

stated that. the MRP formerly was the most significant counterrevolutionary

organization in Cuba, but support of it and Manuel Ray had declined

drastically since Ray fled to the US.

105-95461-9 p. 2

(11)v

SECRETI

-16-

HH 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

On 3/30/61, Roberto Fabian Armand Borrego, Miami ; Fla.,

advised that he was a member of the committee in exile of the 30th

of November Movement (105-92196)•

He stated that this committee

had been meeting frequently with

Jose Niro Cardona, the president of

the RC which had been formed recently through the union of the FRD of

Manuel Antonio De Varona and the MRP headed by Manuel Ray•: He

continued that the committee was leaving momentarily for NYC for

additional conferences with Cardona and members of the RC. :/)

105-92196-2 p. 5

(6)V

Evelio Duque Rodriquez, 627 9th Ave., NYC, advised that

shortly after his arrival in NYC on 3/12/61 from Cuba, he joined the

MRP which was headed by Manuel Ray. He exhibited his membership

card which had been issued in NY on 3/31/61. He indicated that he

stopped attending MRP meetings in NY after about three or four functiong

because he had some misgivings about the political ideology of this

organization, particularly of Manuel Ray ' 411

105-117538-11 p. 1,2

(14)V

NY 2865-S furnished a statement forwarded to him by Dr.

Guillermo Alonso Pujol, a Vice President of Cuba from 1948 to 1952.

Informant stated that the background given by Dr. Pujol was an answer

to Cuban exiles who were critical of his trip to Havana, Cuba, to visit

his son and other prisoners captured during the ill-fated Cuban

invasion of 4/17/61. LU)

Under the caption, "Conference For Good Purpose," Dr. Pujol

mentioned that upon Dr. Miro Cardona's return to NY from the invasion,

he and his entire Council, except Manuel Ray, met with a group of

parents, including Pujol. (

105-99200-96 p. 4

( 11)V

On 2/7/62, Angel Orlando Berisiartu y Palop, a Cuban exile

in Miami, advised that he had been a member of the July 26 Revolutionary

Movement

under Fidel Castro. He claimed that he had been in frequent

contact and association with Camilo Cienfuegos

(105-54536), Chief of

the Cuban Revolutionary Army, until the time of his disappearance.

(continued on next page)

SECRET

-17-

HH 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

(continued)

Additional liaison contacts included Castellanos; Juan

Adler De La Torre, member of Ray's MRP; and Dr. Maria Luisa Bonafonte,

friend of Ray's (8) (u1)

Among the individuals listed by the Miami Office who were

known to that office and who might return to Cuba and occupy positions

of authority was Armando Lora, who, it was stated, might be at least

an assistant

to Ray (DU)

64-4461-975 р. 1,3,4,7

(2,32)V.

A CIA report dated 4/5/61 indicated that its source had heard

from one of his Cuban friends that the MRP was becoming less effective

inside

Cuba, particularly since Manuel Ray had been in the US. This

friend, who

was familiar with MRP personalities and problems, stated

that in his opinion the MRP was degenerating into a pressure group in

the US and was becoming a head in the US

without a body in Cuba.

Ф(1)

97-4524-5

• (3)v

On 4/6/61, Eloy De Castroverde Y Covani (134-9281) was

interviewed but it was determined that he had no recent information

concerning Cuba or Cuban activities of any intelligence value.'"

tastes at any

It was noted that he was a former business

partner of Manuel

Ray Rivero when the Hotel Havana Hilton was being built (date not given)

He regarded Ray as honest but, if not a communist, at least a very

radical leftist. lui

134-9281-7

(191,37)V

Jose M. Cabezon, president of the delegation in Spain _of

the FRD, furnished a copy of a report dated 4/11/ol concerning Jose

Pardo Llada (100-420896). This report was made available to Cabezon

by Agustin Parradas Sicilia who interviewed Pardo under pretext as

a newspaperman•

. A translation from Spanish of the report indicated

that prior to his departure from Cuba, he informed friends within and

outside of Cuba of his decision to abandon

the country and

break with

Castro.

When asked if he had relations with the political sectors in

exile, Pardo stated that personally he maintained cordial relations with

Manuel Ray and other exile leaders but politically, none. du)

100-420896-12 p. 4

(3) V

SECRED.

-19-

NW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

An ONI report dated 4/17/61 revealed that during an interview

with Jerry DeBerly (134-10158) in Miami, he indicated that he

was not

favorably impressed with most of the members of the recently

established Provisional Council.

He declared that Manolo Ray was

unquestionably a communist for he had been too close to Fidel, Raoul

and Che* to be otherwise. He also suspected Miro Cardona. According

to De Berly, those people who were backed by former Ambassador Bonsal

who formerly aspired to power in Cuba and who

currently comprised not a fifth column but a sixth column. (f)L)

134-10158-3

(29) V.

*Fidel and Raoul Castro; Che Guevara

On 4/25/61, Dr. Pedro De Valerga, a Cuban businessman who

traveled between Cuba and the US (protect identity), advised that Manuel

Ray should not be included as part of a Cuban Government because he was

a Socialist in his thinking and policy. He stated that Ray obviously

had convinced someone in authority that he had a much larger following

in the underground than he actually had. u

(113-7-220-367 4(4)

(19)V

Vice President and Director of

the "Diario Las Americas,

on 4/26/67 cara a Miami dally Spanish language newspaper,

advised that he had recently received for publication

in that newspaper

an article from Aureliano Sanchez Arango, who was actively involved in

counterrevolutionary matters against Fidel Castro. This article was

highly critical of the RC of which Manuel Ray was

a member. Aguirre

refused to publish the article inasmuch as he felt it would serve no

useful purpose as far as the US Government or counterrevolutionary

efforts were concerned.

62-45716-225 p. 2

REVEWED BY SWIFK TASK FORCE

ON a13.82 dal

A RELEASE IN FULL

U

RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

brh

-20-

SECRET

NN 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

(continued)

Ray also advised that Rogelio Cisneros, who was the chief

of clandestine activity of the MRP in Cuba and who was currently in

Miami, would be able to furnish additional information

concerning

Murillo.

105-95804-7 p. 2

(11) V

On 5/2/01, Dr. Ruben De Leon Garcia, Miami, Coordinator of

the Armed

Forces of

the Republic of Cuba in Exile (2-1707) furnished

a report in Spanish which set forth four separate groups of exiled

Cuban military personnel. Comprising one group were officers who

wished to keep the rank as leaders but who considered themselves as

separate from the other groups.

Among those listed in this group was

Colonel Ramon Barquin Lopez and Lieutenant Colonels Manuel Varela

Castro and Jose E. Monteagudo Fleitas. All were involved politically

with Manuel Ray, head of the MRP, which was considered a left-wing anti-

Castro organization by Dr. De Leon.'j

Translation of report set out

2-1707-3 p. 12

(1)V

sympathetic with the anti-Castro underground movement headed by Manuel

Ray.

He continued that while in Madrid he communicated with Ray in

Miami and expressed a desire to do something to assist the MRP. He

subsequently was invited by Ray to come to Miami as he felt he could

use him in connection with anti-Castro propaganda. Guede went to

Miami on 12/18/60. 41

On 5/9/61, Rigoberto Castellanos, PSI (protect identity), a

Cuban exile who was

closely acquainted with Ray and who had knowledge

of the activities of persons associated with him, advised that Guede

joined the MRP after turning against Fidel Castro.

According to source,

Guede lived a short distance from Ray in Hialeah.!

Add. info. according to the "Miami News," 3/23/60.

105-94082-5 p. 1,3-5,7

(8)V

-22-

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId: 32307127

Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET:

The State Department advised that on 8/22/61, Dr. Carlos

Prio Socorras (109-430), former President of Cuba currently living in

the US, met with a

group of exiles, members of the Association of Cuban

Industrialists and Businessmen, in Mexico. During the course of the

meeting, Dr. Prio spoke harshly about Dr. Miro Cardona but highly

praised Manuel "Tony" Varona and Manolo Ray. He stated that the Us

was keeping Cardona as head of the CRC because he, unlike the other

two, had refrained from criticizing the us over the invasion fiasco. ($(a)

109-430-2409

DECLASS PER DOS PER

(28)V

thEIR 1E1. DTD 1-6-48

SCO/RSA

-13-98 JFK

A Newark report dated 8/22/61 revealed that George R..

Jamon

(105-63729) had told numerous individuals on Long Beach Island the

following: Damon was a close friend of Manuel Rey, whom he described

as the leader of the anti-Castro forces in the US.

Rey had made Damon

a colonel in the army that was attempting the overthrow of Castro.

Rey was currently in Miami

and had commissioned Damon to purchase

motors for PT boats.

Damon found motors he could obtain for $400. He

intended to charge Rey $750 plus $150 transportation

allow them to take anything on board for fear of their concealing a

bomb. Damon further stated that he could obtain any type of weapon

in the Miami area presumably from an arms cache belonging to Rey.

(Source not clear)

105-63729-14 p. 1,5

(46)V

On 8/29/61, Carlos Francisco Arazoza Forcade (134-10688)

advised that many people had broken with Fidel Castro who were

originally allied with him not because Castro failed them but because

they failed Castro.

One such individual was Manolo Ray, who was

currently Coordinator of the MRP in the Us.

• Arazozo stated that Ray

was Minister of Public Works under Castro for a time and that Ray's

brother also had a good position

in the Castro regime but was_caught

mishandling funds and was either shot

believed in many things that Castro did, including state ownership of

principal industries.

Arazoza continued that he, Ray, was organizing

a movement in the US

against Castro and that Dr. Ricardo la Flor and

Dr. Guillermo Gonzalez Fraga, physicians at the Thomason General

Hospital in El Paso, were Ray's adherents although they were anti-

castro. u

134-10688-1 p. 7

(19629)V

-27- SECREP

NW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRETI

(continued)

gil consuper on the nata pate cute,

105-104188-6 p. 3,4

(12)V

Francisco Javier Soler, Cuban political refugee in New

who was until June, 1961, Director of the Quality

Standards Section of the Ministry of Conmerce in Cuba (protect identity),

advised that, to his knowledge,

activity among underground groups in

Cuba had ceased considerably.

He stated that he had no direct

information but understood that there was some strength in either the

group headed by Manolo Ray or Tony Varona.'

The above information was submitted in a New Orleans airtel

dated 1/11/62.

105-95461-47 p. 2

(24)V

CSNY 2822-S advised on 1/15/62, that Jose M. Franco who

was in charge of the Sales Department of

Azucarera Haina C. por A of

the Dominican Republic (DR), had been in NYC since 1/1/62 contacting

numerous sugar brokers concerning future sales of Dominican sugar to

the US.

on 1/15/62, according to go rall st., NYCet with ode Lamborn,

Franco stated

at that time that the US needed

President of Lamborn and Company to know the true situation in the DR,

that after thirty years of dictatorship, the DR would need a very

liberal and left of center government.

He indicated that the troubles

of the DR were due to "Yankee imperialism."

He continued that at

present the US had a government which thought along very liberal and

Leftist lines. Franco then stated that Manuel Ray Rivero had beer

109-12-211-1263

(16,36)V

SECRET!

-30-

NW 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page 11

---

## Page 12

'SECRET

who had recently left Cuba,

reported that Manuel Ray, despite

on 7/25/62, Piero Fedel his leftist thinking, and Jose

Miro Cardona were the most hightons pe cub Cuban exile leaders

according to the rebel organizations

105-95461-115 p. B, 4

(11)V

On 8/3/62, Gerardo Gabriel Antonio Hernandez Perez

(105-113450), H1am1

advised that he and many other Cubans had a

very poor opinion of several Cuban exile leaders, including Manuel

Ray Rivero, because they were once with the Castro regime and

probably would have stayed if there had been sufficient opportunity

for them to advance politically and financially Hernandez classified

Ray as probably the most ambitious of any and as anti-American as any

105-113456-1 p. 7

(34)V

Noel Gonzalez Mantici (105-116815), a Cuban alien in Miami,

considered himself a close friend of Manuel Ray, who was formerly

a member of the anti-Castro CRC in Miami. (Source not clear,

probably Nl 776-S, 8/10/62)(AU1)

105-116815-1 p. 4

(14)V

A CIA report dated 8/22/62 indicated that Manuel Ray, former

MRP leader

was seeking a combined command of all five resistance

groups in Cuba and a pooling of funds

pm the CRC to give greater

strength to the resistance movement.

CIA INFO (04) REMAINS

105-95461-125

CLASSITNED PER THEIR

(11) V

2 31 90 472

SP6, BJA

Xaa (=24,326)

2 6/91

On 8/27/62, Fred W. Stewart, President

Harvester Company

San Juan, advised that sose Miguel Anonso Mendez

(105-111831) was in San Juan working in the anti-Castro movement of

Manolo Ray.

105-111831-8 p. 3

(25)V

SI 105-111831-5

(25)V

-36-

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

On 10/10/62, Jorge Estiva was interviewed at 1878 W.

Miami, which address had been the hdqrs. of the

Movirer so Recuperacion Revolucionaria Cubano (Cuban Revolutionary

Recovery Movement) (MRRC) (105-108646). Estiva advised that the

MRRC had been dissolved in mid-September, 1962, and that most of the

members had been absorbed by the recently formed JURE, which took

over the above hdars.

Source stated that JURE was organized in

Puerto Rico by the well-known anti-Castro Cuban, Manuel Ray, and

included members from five different anti-Castro groups..;

105-108646-15

( 12)V

advised that

dov a number be yet in note ta be an are nio areat no Pepay

Rico. He, according to source, favored Fidel Castro at one time but

was currently regarded as being very anti-Castro and pro-American.

At one time, he was considered to be a follower of Manolo Ray, a

Cuban exile

residing in Puerto Rico and presently employed by the

Puerto Rican Planning Board, but was not known to currently favor Ray

105-114953-2 p. 2

(27)

On 10/16/62, Alberto Gutierrez De La Solana, NY, advised

that he was associated with a new anti-Castro organization known as

"Alpha 66" (105-112098). He related that there had been many rumors

that Engineer Manuel Ray was one of the leaders of that group but

that he had thoroughly checked this rumor and found it to be untrue.

He indicated that if Ray had been connected with the organization in

any way, he would have immediately severed his relationship. u

105-112098<68 p. 2

(12425) V

(105-114953)

began working there on 11/1/62

At that time he listed as an employment

reference Manolo Ray, Puerto Rican Planning Board, Santurce, Fuerto Rico.

105-114953-5 p: 1

(27)

-37-

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId: 32307127

Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET

A CIA report dated 1/23/63 revealed that Angel Miolan,

chairman of the Partidó Revolucionario Dominicano (PRD - Dominican

Revolutionary Party) had been

approached by JURE, headed by Manuel

Kay Rivero

to obtain permission from the PRD to establish JURE

representation in the Dominican Republic• (l U

109-12-211\1705

By letter dated 2/15/63 at Miami, Robert H. Hoadley (134-9231)

offered to assist the Bureau on the

Cuban

and Latin American

situation.

He praised the Bureau but mentioned several things he could not under-

"How can you believe that Mr. Miro Cardona is a real

It was noted that he was formerly contacted as a PSI in

Miami but was dropped when his army record, which showed a discharge

for psychoneurosis

became known.

It was further noted that Hoadley

should be contacted but that he should not be utilized as a source.u

134-9231-8

( 19)V

A CIA report dated 2/27/63 concerning Jose Julian Perez Vidal

active leader of the revolution against Castro, among the,

greater possibilities for overthrowing the Castro regime.

CIA INFO REMAINS CLASSIFIED

NH31, 4pER THEIR 173190 LTe.

105-63791-25

SPUBJAGAL 4241,326) 7791

(3433)V

CIA reported that Manuel Artime (105-85440) had a scheduled

appointment on 3/9/63 in San Juan, Puerto Rico, with Governor Luis

Munoz Marin.

He intended to discuss the Cuban situation, the Dominican

and hoped to receive some

situati anti-castrues payrt Artie indicated that it was his under-

type of anti-Castro support.

standing that at present there was a personal rift between Munoz and

Ray and that this was an opportune time to make the trip to Puerto Rico.

105-85440-10

(4)V

(4)70

-40-

CECRET

NW 45937 DocId: 32307127

Page 14

---

## Page 15

•SECRET

On 5/31/63, PSI

Rafael Valdes (protect identity) stated

that there had been a strong rumor among Cuban exiles that Gutierrez

the military leader of the Second National Front of Escambray

Fidel Castro in 1959. (itu)

PSI Rafael Valdes (protect identity) reported that on

6/4/63 he met with Gutierrez Menoyo in NY at which time he learned

that Gutierrez had been spending much time with JURE members in an

effort to reach some type of agreement but that as of 6/4/63, no

agreement had been made.

According to source, Gutierrez had not

personally spoken with "Manolo" Ray when

the

latter was in NY during

the weekend of 6/1/63 but Ray would return to NY on the weekend o1

/8/63 and he, Gutierrez, might meet with him then a pa

105-112098-297 p. 3,4

(12,26)V

Rafael Valdes, PSI under development (protect identity)

advised that on 6/14/63 he conversed with Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo during

which time he learned that there had been no union of the Second

' National Front of Escambray (SNFE) - Alpha 66 (105-112098) with JURE.

Gutierrez stated that there were many difficulties to overcome before

any union could be made with JURE, which was headed by Manuel "Mano10"

Ray. Informant related that Gutierrez spoke very bitterly concerning

Ray and stated that Ray wanted only to get all anti-Castro organizations

under the control of Jure. a

It was noted that Gutierrez was the Military Chief of SNFE.

105-112098-315 p. 1a,3,4

(12\26)

On 6/14/63, Manuel Artime Buesa, 6151 Southwest 16th Terrace,

advised that he was formerly

a doctor and Rebel Army

Ne rider in cuba and was currently head of the Moviiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario (MRR) (97-4133)•

He related that recently he had been

conferring with several anti-Castro organizations in regard to forming

a coordination of military efforts against Cuba.

He stated that he

refused to meet with such left-wing organizations as those of Manuel

Ray and Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo whom he considered extremists and

demagogues. 2)

97-4133-63 p.-2

(2) v

- 44-

SECRET!

NW 45937 DocId: 32307127

Page 15

---

## Page 16

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

Ray presided over MRP meeting at home of

Felipe Pazos, Cuban nationa,

Pledras, Puerto Rico; explained MRP's

purpose. (Juan

Agiular, protect identity,

1/4/61)

Ray reportedly slipped in and out of Cuba

directing underground there.

MRP

respected by Cuban exiles in US. Rufo

13s, 10090 20 1 to F cuban

adorn 20 6593 Sanuary, 19655(2)

Ray was member of Castro's organization

in underground in Havana, Cuba, during

1957-1958; well experienced in

and underground activities.

(Hugo

coderge ha, achera working with PRD

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

216328. 12,12

Sub A

18)V

"NY Daily News"

1/10/61

and Phil Santora discussed anti-Castro

movements and dedicated cold-blooded

opportunists thirsting for power.

Article set out brief biographical sketch

of Ray; his desire for "Fidelism without

Fidel;" the names of his allies; his

possible leftist leanings; his acceptance

by the US Government; and his dispassionate

reference to his brother.

Ray was head of MRP. (Investigator

Mitchell Solomon, INS.

Philadelphia,

furnished document entitled "Cubar

Counter-Revolutionary Organizations."

(Date of mail 1/23/61) 6(1) PINS TNS/5TRE4/556) /6/93

Majority of most important front groups

2748

such as MRP headed by Ray led either by

(45) *

known communists or purely political

opportunists.

Ray,

known communist,

openly declared that only thing wrong

Document enclosed

2693 enc1. p. 3

(16)V

(continued on next page),

-46-

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId: 32307127

Page 16

---

## Page 17

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

the thought that Ray was

a communist or

wanted to retain communist order of

government in Cuba but while Ray was

leftist other MRP Executive Committee

members were rightists; Ray leading

Executive Committee member.

(Armando

Lora, Miami, Fla. 3/14/61) :)

Former Minister of Public Works in Cuba;

currently Mke leader;

policies for the next Cuban Government.

(Interview of Manuel Ray Rivero, 3/28/61)

In early April, 1961 invasion of Cuba

expected; Miro

Cardona, Provisional

President of Cuba, visited anti-Castro

camp in Guatemala

with CIA officials;

Ray ordered underground, in Cuba to assist

and cooperate with any invasion force

which might land in Cuba.

WE 1101J

eceived information from Ernest

Betancourt,

MRP member, who reportedly

received information from Ray (P)X

Ernesto Betancourt of MRP in Washington, DC,

1.n. almost nightly telephonic contact

with Ray prior

-to Apr 11,

1961 Cuban

invasion. (WF-1161>S)

All Cuban exiles for unity

against

Castro but unity being prevented by

prote on i he not givengurce

Since failure of invasion on 4/17/01

kay planned to leave FRD as MRP blamec

(Armando Lora,

Miami, Fla.,

member

of MRP Executive

Board, 5/31/61) i:

Ray addressed student group at Harvard

University on 5/3/01 recommending

continuance of revolution against Castro

and was well received. (Gustavo De Aragon,

former Cuban Consul at Boston, Mass.,

Cuban Consulate)

-4.8-

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

2773

(28)

2960

(28) v

,885

17W0

2843V

(continued on next page)

SECRET

HH 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

Prior to invasion of Cuba on 4/17/61

there was much discontent among pilots

of invasion force over insistence that

Ray be accepted as a member of the RC.

Pilots understood Ray was forced on

Council by US State Department.

Practically all Cuban exiles agreed

Ray must be dropped from Council.

Matias Farias, who participated in

recent Cuban invasion, 5/5/61) ,11

Informant in close contact with Ray

Prior to 4/17/61 Cuban invasion,

against bloodshed and violence but

currently sought violent overthrow

of Castro.

up on Us assistance and would seek

support in Latin America.

contemplated residing in Costa Rica

where he would wage a campaign against

Cuban Government. Supposed to meet

in Florida during week of 7/9/61

with other Cuban

Leaders. (NY 3248-

PS1, 7/10/61) *

Meeting at home of Dr.

Guillermo

Alonso fujol, former Vice President

of Cuba, during weekend of 7/15/61

scheduled to be attended by Ray and

other leaders of anti-Castro organi-

zations for purpose of uniting to

overthrow Castro. (NY 2865-5)(d)(U)

Ray denounced FRy and planned

further association with it.

(MM 639-S, 5/25/61)

Claimed US Government forced his ouster

as

head of MRP; resigned from MRP.

(Miami newspapers (unidentified), mid

July, 1961)

Some MRP members claimed the organi-

zation in Miami refused to accept

Ray's replacement from Cuba and claimed

that organizations in Miami and Cuba

should mutually decide on replacement

nave ual the 353, 7/18893 the (4)

ECRET

2854

(17)

2894

17V

2910 p. 1,9

(36)V

(continued on next page)

HH 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 18

---

## Page 19

SECRET

(continued)

INFORMATION

(105-117222)

Prior to August, 1961, Ray head of MRP.

MRP considered largest and most significant

in underground in Cuba. (No source)

Suspended from MRP membership.

(Ignacio

Mendoza De La Torre, Miami Beach, Fla.,

7/28/61) (16

Resigned from MRP.

(Mendoza, supra,

September, 1961)

MRP torn by strife over status of Ray.

Ray would be maintained in advisory

capacity by MRP and would not have any

absolute power to act for the organization

as previously.

(Numerous informants

identified)

(Date of mail 10/3/61)

!?)

MRP broken into 2 factions in Puerto

Rico: the larger group under one

"Gelabert" (phonetic), the smaller group

under Ray. Ray employed by Commonwealth

of Puerto Rico's Planning Commission.

MRP lost many members due to "socialistic"

policy of kay.

(PSI Juan Fernando

Aquilar Leon and/or PSI (UD) |

(protect identities)

(Date of mail 11/24/01)

И)

Former head of MRP in Miami,

currently

in Puerto Rico. (No source, date of mail

1/9/62) , :

Ray was associate of Armando Pessino,

industrialist who stated he backed

Castro because of a need for increased

social benefits for Cuban workers.

Bureau Agent obtained information on

3/15/62)

C(21)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

'PAGE NUMBER

2959/Р.

(17, 36),

2940

17)v

983

281 v

OTHER 4

047 p. 1.

17)v

3109

(17)

(continued on next page)

-50-

SECRET

HH 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 19

---

## Page 20

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

Ray employed by US Government in the

Alliance for Progress program; formerly

headed the MRP; considered by majority

of Cuban exiles as anything from outright

communist to a "leftist" in his thinking

which resulted in MRP being thought of

as extremely liberal.

not clear, possibly 5/8/627el(U)

Ray returned to Puerto Rico on 5/17/62

group in Puerto Rico to attack Cuba, hel

consisting of war materials and

financial assistance.

Other Cuban exile

leaders in Puerto Rico distrustful of

Manolo Ray on basis of his political

philosophy and decided they must be in

position to attack Cuba the same time as

Ray but not under his leadership.

Exiles

felt this important lest Ray's groups

would be successful and he subsequently

fould claim he liberated Cuba.

subject of

Bufile 105-99003)

St., NYC, who was secretary to Dr. Jose

Miro Cardona, President of CRC, advised

he and Cardona were informed on 5/26/62

by MRP in Havana that they should have

5 coordinators instead of one.

Suggested were Fernandez Nuevo, Miami;

Joaquin Godoy, Miami; Andres Valdespino,

NYC; Ray of San Juan; and unidentified

Aragon stated that Nuevo,

Godoy and Valdespino were against Ray:

Aragon saw small chance of Ray bringing

together a following within MRP.

(*Й)

on 5/28/62, Aragon conversed with AG

regarding newspaper article relative to

replacement of Cardona with Ray. Aragon

said Ray would never have anything to do

with CRC. AG said, "we'll see" but left

impression

that Ray would have no say

in CRC.

121)

- 51-

SECRET

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3183 P. 19,20

(17)v

3179 p/1,

28)V

OTHER 4

209.

17)V

(continued on next page)

HH 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 20

---

## Page 21

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

275 P: 1,3,1

18)V

to State Department, above report

unfounded.

Appointed to co-ordinating committee

of MRP in Exile but refused appointment

(Joaquin Godoy, 133 San Sebastian,

Coral Gables, Fla., 6/20/62) (Ui)

Ray had practically no following in

Puerto Rico or US and Cuban exiles

considered him left of center. Ray not

a communist but advocated most of ideas

practiced by Castro. LMariano Roca

PSI, protect identity, 5/6/627 0121)

Ray said that all.

"Popular" political

factions outside Cuba would be accomodated

in a new JURE in an effort to restore

splintered movement into an effective

working organization; that Movement would

be financed almost entirely by Cubans.

("San Juan Star," 7/24/62)

Ray, Junta Revolucionaria Cubana (JURE)

leader and consultant for Puerto Rico

Planning Board, would head group of

underground personnel expected at

gathering of Cuban exiles

in Ponce,

Puerto Rico on September 15 and 16, 1962,

to plot overthrow of Fidel Castro.

("San Juan Star" 9/4/62)

9/4/62 article was result of efforts

by Ray, who was using current Cuban

crisis

to attempt to regain political

prestige he once held among Cuban exiles.

Cuban exiles not expected to attend

or his ideas.

(Julian H. Gallo, Pst,

protect identity; 9/4/62; Jeronim

Esteve.

9/4/627,

Jr

X'PSI, protect identity,

328) enc1. p. 1-3.

(continued on next page)

-52 - SECRED

HH 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 21

---

## Page 22

SECRET

(continued)

INFORMATION

(105-117222)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

Regarding same article, the prediction

that 113 Cubans expected to attend

meeting was strictly propaganda by Ray.

Meeting expected to fail but Ray and

followers would continue efforts to

win exiles by trickery and false

(Jeronimo Esteve,

Ir .9

Junta Revolucionaria met in Rio Canas,

Puerto Rico, during September, 1962,

and mapped out strategy to throw

Russians and Fidel Castro out of Cuba;

Ray chosen by Junta as one of the leaders

of a nine-man directorate.

Between 9/24/62 and 10/6/62, Miro

Cardona informed State Department he

was ready and willing to unite with any

Cuban organization dedicated to overthrow

of current Cuban regime except Ray's

forces or any former, criminals.

Cardona

concerned over pressure by

State

Department to readmit Ray into the

believed to ultimately be

comsed from covernor Luis Munoz Maoin of

Puerto Rico who supported Ray.

statements made by State Department.

Cardona believed State might pressure

him to join forces with Ray. CIA had no

use for Ray who would never be read-

mitted to the Consejo if up to them

Sub A "The Miami Herald'

(29)V

9/19/62

3332 P. 2-

(18)V

'Counterrevolutionary Handbook,

lated 10/10/62, compiled by CIA

contained survey of anti-Castro

organizations.

Numerous information

set out regarding Ray's connection

with the MRP, JURE and Alpha 66.(

« и)

CIA INFO IN LASTE

REMATAS

GASSIFIED

PERTHEIR FBI DOLIK.

S86 B2NC

(9211, 326)

Copy of handbook enclosed

3387 enclo p. 1,6,14,19,

/42,44,47,50,55,90

(18/28/31%36)r

(continued on next page)

- 53-

SECREM

HH 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 22

---

## Page 23

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

Ray stated that 40 was total membership

of JURE

in Puerto Rico; presided over

JURE meeting in Santurce, Puerto Rico,

in early January; claimed JURE had $3,000

in bank.

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3414 p. 26,27

( 18)V

Ray considered by Cuban exiles in

Miami as being anything from a communist

to an extremely radical nationalist.

Exiles believed he would only replace

government officials with his personal

friends

but would not change form of

government if Castro were overthrown

by him.

Since Ray was so highly

controversial and discredited by exiles,

his organization might never be

acceptable to them.

Exiles complained

that Ray received backing from Governor

Munoz Marin of Puerto Rico; was

favorably written about by US press;

and apparently was well considered

by US State Department. COM 639-S,

2/1/637/004)

3530352

Rey Pernas that US State Department

instructed him to try to cooperate

stated it was

time for organizations

like Ray's to form liaisons with Miro

for purpose of being able to plan

action should US support of Ray become

pronounced. (CIA) CU

Jose Ruiz-Williams Alfert,

second in

1961 an as be contacted yuri april,

25757; 3

-54-

(continued on next page)

SECRET

HH 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 23

---

## Page 24

C

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

Same information as serial 3575 according to

3570

"The Miami Herald," 5/11/63

MRP, Second Front of Escambray, Alpha

30th of November and Frente Anti-

3585 po-7

(45)1

Comunista de Liberacion agreed to

unite in attempt to overthrow Castro.

JURE, headed by Ray, approached group for

admission but decision not reached as

JURE regarded as being considerably to

left of other organizations.

(Joaquin

Godoy, in charge

• of Foreign Affairs

and Public Relations of MRP, May 16 and

19, 1963) 41

As of 5/27/63, Ray had not signed with

604 p.

18)v

the Cuban Committee of Liberation, a

inity group of exile organizations.

(MM- 639-S)

И)

Ray was former Minister of Public

Works under Castro; deposed as

Cuban

3583

head of MRP; currently believed to be

living in Puerto Rico. (CIA rpt.

5/28/63)

U)

Assistant Secretary of

State for Latin American Affairs,

595

8iSіN

mentioned, in a speech, 5 exile

organizations, including JURE headed

by Ray, as only organizations with

clandestine assets. JURE believed

by exiles to be group most favored by

US Government as declarations of Ray

were appearing in the press and his

prominence being pushed by Governor

Luis (Munoz) Marin of Puerto Rico and

President Romulo Betancourt of Venezuela,

both of

whom had excellent contacts

in Washington. (CIA rpt. 5/30/63) EY4)

CIA INFO IN

RiS 415 REMANNS

(continued on next page)

CLASSIFIED PER

ThEre 14/31/90

LTR.

586854/GA *24. 326) 241/91

-55-

SECRET

HH 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 24

---

## Page 25

SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

233 p.

vas no over end out stard that now

overt action.

Ray and others claimed

that Fidel Castro realized people's

Regarding Cuban Cabinet reorganization

of 11/26/59, Luis Baralt

Minister of Public Works prior to

reorganization) whom he considered one

of the Cabinet's best men. Baralt LS

stated that Ray lost Cabinet position

because he protested treatment of

Major Hubert Matos (arrested in Cuba

on charges of treason). (NY 2494-S#)(S)

Same information as above.

Same information as above according

to HAV-4 and/or Octavio Valdes, prominent

head of construction firm in Havana. (

Article captioned, "Pro-Red Takes Over

Cuba's Bank"' set out Cuban Cabinet

changes.

Ray made president of army's

Superior Institute of Science and

lechnology, an apparent new post.

Ray

reportedly

had been trying to leave

Castro's official family.

Same information as above according to

CIA.

Same

CIA

formation as above according to

LIA INTOM LAST ZIP:

REMAINS

LASSIFIED PER

THE 112. 12

90 UR.

SPUBJA)

ablar

GO

*211,326)

-60-

HH 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 25

987

(14)V

Sub A "NY Times" 11/27/59

(15%35)V

892

Sub A "New York Herald

(15)V Tribune" 11/27/59

1058 p.

(14,35)V

989

( 14)V

(continued on next page)

SECRET

---

## Page 26

'SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

Herbert Matthews of "New York Times"

stated that the "young crowd" considered

Ray a moderate who did his best to apply

orthodox theories, methods and practice

to a dynamically

revolutionary situation.

(NY 2494-S#)(5)

Raul Chibas and Ray allies in anti-Castro

movement. Ray replaced by

• Osmani

Cienfuegos as cabinet member under Castro.

Ray had been attempting to leave Cuba

clandestinely and ask asylum in US.

Ray may have recently taken asylum in

an embassy in Havana. Data concerning

movement would possibly be available when

Chibas and Ray arrived in US.

Alvarez Barquin

Vice President, Cubana

Airlines, 7723/60) 1)

Same information as above.

Same information as above according to

State Department. (U)

Ray's MRP gaining in strength and

effectiveness.

Because of prestige

he enjoyed as revolutionary leader

during Batista period and as competent

administrator while in Ministry of

he could serve as rallying

Put orato Depart, boreror, 18604(0)

As of 9/22/60

2312

Ray in Fla. (State Department) (g)U)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

005 P.

14)1

050 p° 1-3,

15)0

073

15VV

1022 p. 2

(14)V

311 P.:

270

(continued on next page)

-61-

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 26

---

## Page 27

SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

Many in Cuba disappointed that US

Government would

permit Ray to be

leader of provisional government of

cay very trienath with castro conne ist.

Minister of Public Works.

Anti-Castro

underground camps in Cuba near rebellion

when Ray's position in contemplated

new government announced.

Sherlock

Hackley, 760 Park Avenue, wyC, 4/17/61Y y

Ray prominent member of Revolutionary

Council in Miami.

(Source not clear;

971 p.

150 v

date of mail 4/28/61)

Ray invited to speak before Cooperative

Forum, Room 401, Union Station,

3036

(2811

Washington, D.C.

for 6/7/61 or 6/14/61; given

tentatively scheduled

privilege

of selecting his own audience. CUP (161J5)0(U)

Ray attended

above meeting on 6/7/61

3088

during which he held question and answer

session.

Gave impression to those in

(28)v

attendance that he was one of few

Cubans possessing leadership ability

Cuban military field. (WF([16I7S)

Puerto Rican Governor Luis Munoz Marin

Dr. Ramon Suarez, eminent Puerto Rican

and

237 Pro 29

15)4

physician, extremely interested in frank

appraisal of attitude of Ray, recently

denounced leader of Mri who had receivec

considerable adverse publicity.

Ray was

an engineer, well educated, a good

organizer, quite determined, anti-

American,

dangerously to the left, and

unclear

on certain vital matters.

dropped from MRP\leadership because of

his leaders' dissatisfaction with his

ambiguous statements and fear that

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

2891

(15) v

(continued on next page)

. -62-

SECRETI

HH 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 27

---

## Page 28

SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

(Fidelism without Fidel). In latter

July, 1901, Governor Munoz refused to

Ray politically but offered

assistance in obtaining him an

engineering

position.

Ray apparently

undetermined, allegedly having

received

attractive offer from

someone in US with Latin American

interests.

Ray appeared to be politically

Castellanos Gonzalez,

castellans bonzaded, under development

as a PSI-Cuba, protect identity, 8/6/61)

Dr. Miguel Buch among controversial

Cuban doctors in US.

He belonged to

Ray's group; was not known to have

attacked communism or Castro publicly.

Lest agustin caste lanos

identity, 1/8/62/4) 21 protect

Jorge Barroso, head of Sugar Institute

in Cuba during Batista regime, advised

CSNY 2822-S on 2/1/62 that Governor

Luis Munoz Marin* regretted recommending

Ray for membership as he lacked leadership

qualities. (P)(U)

Ray approached by Captain Perez Alamas

(nu), former Chief of G-2 in Camaguey,

and Manuel Toyos, member of the Huber

Matos group in exile, regarding reaction

of followers of Matos should Cuban Govern-

ment release some 2,000 political

prisoners in exchange for a "do-nothing-

against-Castro" policy when Castro started

campaign against Cuban communists which

would return 26 of July Movement to power.

(CIA rpt. 1/4/63)

(pu)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

511 P.

1594

35355,2

009/

15153511

(continued on next page)

*of Puerto Rico

- 63-

SECRET

HW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 28

---

## Page 29

SECRET

REFERENCES NOT INCLUDED IN THIS SUMMARY

The following references on Manuel Ray, aka. Manolo Ray

Manolo Ray Rivero, Manuel Ray Rivero,

located in files maintained

in the Special File Room of the Files

and Communications Division,

Records Branch, were not reviewed:

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

64-330-210-1063

(S)

1100

105-86020-788 -

850

105-89923-134

152

155

164

-A "NY Herald Tribune" 1/9/61

-A "Sunday Visitor" 5/14/61

-A "The Worker" 11/14/61

-A "NY World Telegram" 2/23/62

(5)

(5)

(5)

(5)

(5)V

(22)V

(5)0

(22)V

See the search slip filed behind file for other references

ou thn submeet which outaerences am source tid be noted on toget

Differences in source will be noted on the

search slip.

-65-

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId: 32307127

Page 29

---

## Page 30

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10291-10267

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4546-23

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 03/27/1964

• PAGES: 68

SUBJECTS :

MR, CORRELATION SUMMARY, SEE REFERENCES, AKA,

BKG, EMP, ASSOC, AFFIL, CUBAN EXILE GROUPS, ACA,

TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

* RESTRICTIONS:

1B; IC; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

==

+.

HW

v9.1

45937

33

DocId: 32307127 Page

30

---

## Page 31

SECRET

CORRELATION SUNSARY

Main File No: 97-4546

Date: March 27, 1964

Subject: Manuel Ray®Rivero

Date Searched: 7/24/63

and fantal variatione verb ject a name and allages woe searched, ca

HAVANA,

Manuel Bay -River

FLA.

Manola Ray

N.X.

Manole Ray

D.C...

Hanolo Ray.

Manual Rau

VEN.

Manuel©Ray

No 405001098ay

P.R.

Manolo Rey

12013

This summary also includes information on Manuel Ray Rivero found

under the following phrase:

• Manolo Ray Group

PER NAYY LETTER DID.

6-13-97

ThEIR INTORmATION

• PaS. 1 S AND 20 CAND

SLO/KSR

This is a summary of information obtained from a review- 6-23-97

of all "see" references to the subject in Bureau files under the.

names and aliases listed above. All references under the above

(JFK)

names containing data identical with the subject have been included

except those listed at the end of this summary as not having been

reviewed, or those determined to contain the same information as

the main file.

This summary is designed to furnish a synopsis of the

information set out in each reference. In many cases the original

serial will contain the information in much more detail.

THIS SUMMARY HAS BEEN PREFARED FOR USE AT THE SEAT OF

GOVERNMENT AND IS NOT SUITABLE FOR DISSEMINATION.

Analyst

Coordinator

Approved

Theda W.

Duncan

Norman

MCT.

Apstultz

97=4546-23

25 MAR 12 7 1964

1 - R. A. Mullins

You cate upt. later t 127/8 ip.

Drelaso. pop. 47; 59; 0l leter Cntend

ECRETA

in 190-16449-331. Sob 3JAGAT 1012540

HW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 31

---

## Page 32

SECRET

On 5/26/59, (WF 1133-S* learned that Cuban Economic Attache (SJ

Gonzalo de la Pezuela and Roberto Acosta, Vice President in charge

of the Cuban National Commission for Development, had received

instructions from Cuba to immediately make arrangements at the Export

Import Bank,

Washington, D. C.,

, for a loan of "several million

dollars" for Cuba. The money was to be used for the purchase of

unidentified equipment for Cuba. According to the source,

request for this loan had the approval of several Cuban officials,

including Manue1 Ray. *

Embassy of Cuba, Washington, D. C., is the subject of

62-60269• (Ф0(4

[63-60269-195743 V7

On 7/15/60, Angel Sebastian Ros Escala advised that he came

to the Us on 5/19/60; He stated that he had worked for the July 26

with Manolo Ray, an action group leader. «)

Ros continued that around March, 1959, he and several

others organized the Movimiento De Recuperacion Revolucionario (MRR)

(97-4133)

as an underground anti-Castro organization.

He indicated

that he became general coordinator of the MRR and that his work

(dates. not given) for Manolo Ray, the anticommunist head of the public

position in the same department. Ray ous succeeded by oscane his

Cienfuegos. :.-

97-4133-20

(21)V

Naton 1uaoe and a de night be able fame wore to riding theo

evolutionary Group of communism.

of the communistic influence in the Government was alerted by Manola

Ray, Minister of Public Works.

REVIEWED BY ERAJFK TASK FORCE

(continued on next page)

ON 6-13-97 043/25P

EX RELEASE IN FULL

I RELEASE IN PART

SECRET

DocId: 32307127 Page 32

-4-

---

## Page 33

(continued)

SECRET

It was noted in this telegram that "Diego", as a leader in

the Havana underground during the Batista period, might nave been

close to Ray and might

actually be working for him at present.

to

ostracize him.

Cuban MinIster of Public worko,

-48.0rk

that Manuel Ray, Former CU

was a member of the underground

in

Cuba.

On 12/20/60, this informant advised that Ray was head of the

inderground in Cuba. State Department files failed to indicate

whether lanolo Ray was identical to Manuel Ray. X

105-92195-6 p. B,1,3

(6)1

SI par 3

105-92195-5 p. 11

(23)

on 10/17/60/ur (161)S named several individuals who had (gU

tant ation called the Resistenest cavica ing-448 anti-cong these

was Raul Chibas,

former head of the Cuban Railroads who was believed

by the informant to be currently residing in NYC-O

This informant advised that Chibas was in contact with the

Rebel underground in Cuba, particularly with Manuel Ray. Informant

continued that through the association of Chibas and Ray, the Resistencia

Civica in the Us was apprised of the current political and economic

situation in Cuba and of the continuing unrest of the Cuban people u

97-4481-1 p. 2

(3)V

by the FRD (105-87912) had ne/ 60.

On 10/18/60, CSNY 2822-S advised that troops being trained

completed their training and would

e ready to invade Cuba bi

No action would be taken until

fter US elections on 11/8/60 to avoid the matter becoming an electio

issue; however, it would be launched before the new President took

office.in order that there would be no criticism against the new

President. ((U)

(continued on next page)

_N₩ 15937

DocId: 32307127

Page 33

-8_SEORETI

---

## Page 34

• SECRET

(continued)

The above source and the contingent that he accompanied to the US

planned to side with the MRP faction since they appeared to have

received some sort of US aid and sanction in their joint efforts.

It was their plan to contact Ray personally upon their release from

the detention facility at McAllen in an effort to consolidate all

thony # 0145110-2297

zations, (protect identity) advised that Hector Garcia Soto had indicated

around rebruary, 1961,

that he was secretly anti-Castro and was working

for Manolo Ray in the

MRP.

the governmental reforms castro put into effect and believed in

Castro's system of government but did not agree with communism anc

the influence it had in the Cuban Government. (& (21)

105-80787-376 p. 8,10

(22)V

who was the husband of

defected from the Castro regime, was closely associated with

Manolo Rey and Raul Chibas of the MRP. '&)

105-97525-1

(45 V

On 2/6/61, Rufo Lopez Fresquet (64-44765), 2118 12th Ave.

est, Bradenton, Fla., former President-of the Cuban National Bank

dvised that the MRP did not have an organization in the US but tha

there were several members of the organization in the US and Puerto

Rico in exile.

Rico, p exiliu 8-0918 those he named as Manuel Ray (or Rey), Miami,

4-44765-17

2/45)V/

SECRET

I HW 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page 34

-12-

---

## Page 35

SECRET

By letter dated

3/16/61 at Miami, Howard Davis, 450 S. W.

4th St., Miami, NM 639-S, (134-6356)

advised President John F. Kennedy

of the

current

Cuban situation.

Concerning Manuel Ray, he stated that

DE

Kay was an avowed enemy of the Us and that he had heard Ray discussing

his program with other Cubans. Ray advocated that properties confiscated

from American

citizens and corporations were not to be returned to

their rightful owners; that no independence be given to the judicial

power; that special Revolutionary Tribunals be kept functioning; and

that Cuba honor Castro's commercial, cultural and political treaties

with Russia; Red China and their satellites in order to block Americar

influence in the Republic.

Informant called attention to the fact that while the

youth of Cuba fought against the brutal tyranny of international

communism, Cuban "leaders" such as Ray and others in the US were

egoistically campaigning for the Presidency, the several Ministries

and bureaucratic positions, publicly claiming that they had the

(2)

support of American officials and, by inference, of the US Government

Above letter set outf

134-6356-42

-(19)V

Hialeah, Fla.,

He indicated

that during the period of his employment by the Banco Finaciero,

Havana, Cuba, from 1959 to March, 1961, he began working in the

underground against Castro with the MRP and became acquainted with

the organization's leaders, Antonio Veciana and Manuel Rey•

that upon his arrival in the US, he dropped out of the MRP

or of conandos

He related

but

later became a member of Comandos L (105-117222) in Miami. wi

105-117222-71 p. 75

(46)V

stated that. the MRP formerly was the most significant counterrevolutionary

organization in Cuba, but support of it and Manuel Ray had declined

105-95461-9 p. 2

(11)V

SECRET!

.N4 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page

35

-16-

---

## Page 36

SECRET

On 3/30/61, Roberto Fabian Armand Borrego, Miami

advised that he was

a member of the committee in exile of the 30th

of November Movement (105-92196) •

He stated that this committee

nad been meeting frequently with Jose Miro Cardona, the president of

the Re which had been formed recently through the union of the FRD of

Manuel Antonio De Varona and the MRP headed by Manuel Ray.: He

continued that the committee was leaving momentarily for NYC for

additional conferences with Cardona and members of the RC. i)

105-92.196-2 p. 5

(6)v

ovel10 Duque Rodriquez, 627 9th Ave., NYC, advised that

shortly after his arrival in NYC on 3/12/61 from Cuba, he joined the

He exhibited his membership

card which had been issued in NY on 3/31/61. He indicated that he

stopped attending MRP meetings in NY after about three or four functiong

because he had some misgivings about the political ideology of this

organization, particularly of Manuel Ray 11

105-117538-11 p. 1,2

(14)V

NY 2865-S furnished a statement forwarded to him by Dr.

Guillermo Alonso Pujol, a Vice President of Cuba from 1940 to 1952•

Informant stated that the background given by Dr. Pujol was an answer

to Cuban exiles who were critical of his trip to Havana, Cuba, to visIt

his son and other prisoners captured during the ill-fated Cuban

invasion of 4/17/61. LU)

Under the caption, "Conference For Good Purpose," Dr. Pujol

mentioned that upon Dr. Miro Cardona's return to NY from the invasion,

he and his entire Council

, except Manuel Ray, met with a group of

parents, including Pujol. 0(2)

105-99200-96 p. 4

( 11)V

On 2/7/62, Angel Orlando Berisiartu y Palop, a Cuban exile

in Miami, advised that he had been a member of the July 26 Revolutionary

Movement

under Fidel Castro. He claimed that he had been in frequent

a de late that ne

contact and association with Camilo

Cienfuegos (105-54536), Chief of

the Cuban Revolutionary Army, until the time of his disappearance.

(continued on next page)

SECRETI

Aww 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page 36

-17-

---

## Page 37

SECRETI

(continued)

Additional liaison contacts included Castellanos; Juan

Adler De La Torre,

member of Ray's MRP; and Dr. Maria Luisa Bonafonte,

friend of Ray's (8) (4)

Among the individuals listed by the Miami Office who were

known to that office and who might return to Cuba and occupy positions

of authority was Armando Lora, who, it was stated, might be at least

an assistant

64-4461-975 p. 1,3,4,7

(2132)V

A CIA report dated 4/5/61 indicated that its source had heard

from one of his Cuban friends that the MRP was becoming less effective

inside

, Cuba, particularly since Manuel Ray had been in the US. This:

friend, who was familiar with MRP personalities and problems, stated

that in his opinion the MRP was degenerating into a pressure

group in

the US and was becoming a head in the US without a body in Cuba. guy

97-4524-5

(3)V

On 4/6/61, Eloy De Castroverde Y Covani (134-9281) was

interviewed but it was determined that he had no recent information

concerning Cuba or Cuban activities of any intelligence value.'..

late shat any

It was noted that he was a former business

partner of Manuel

Ray Rivero when the Hotel Havana Hilton was being built (date not given)

He regarded Ray as honest but, if not a communist, at least a very

radical leftist. (us

134-9281-7

(19437)V

Jose M. Cabezon, president of the delegation in Spain of

Paro adar 150-42090p It report ate made availante to Cabezon

›v Agustin Parradas Sicilia who interviewed Pardo under pretext a:

a newspaperman.

A translation from Spanish of the report indicate

that prior to his departure from Cuba, he informed friends within and

outside of Cuba of his decision to abandon the country and break with

When asked if he had relations with the political sectors in

Mante Pay a other exile leaders but politically, none du)

Pardo. stated that personally he maintained cordial relations with

100-420896-12 p. 4

(3) V

SECRET

AHH 45937

DocId: 32307127 Page 37

-19-

---

## Page 38

SECRET

An ONI report dated 4/17/61 revealed that during an interview

with Jerry DeBerly (134-10158) in Miami, he indicated that he was not

favorably impressed with most of the members of the recently

ist For he

and chero to be otherin He a auspected tro Cardon to A or

He declared that Manolo Ray was

He also suspected Miro Cardona. According

to De Berly, those people who were backed by former Ambassador Bonsal

"frustrated lot" who formerly aspired to power in Cuba and who

verrently comprised not a fifth column but a sixth column. (7f) 4)

134-10158-3

(29) V

*Fidel and Raoul Castro; Che Guevara

On 4/25/61, Dr. Pedro De Valerga, a Cuban businessman who

traveled between Cuba and the US (protect

identity), advised that Manuel

Ray should not be included as part of a Cuban Government because he was

a Socialist in his thinking and policy. He stated that Ray obviously

had convinced someone in authority that he had a much larger following

in the underground than he actually had. u

{513-7-220-367 (4(U)

(19)V

the "Diario as rich, a suite senies

Vice President and Director of

language newspaper,

advised that he had recently received for publication in that newspaper

an article from Aureliano Sanchez Arango, who was actively involved in

counterrevolutionary matters against Fidel Castro. This article was

a member. Aguirre

refused to publish the article inasmuch as he felt it would serve no

useful purpose as far as the US Government or counterrevolutionary

efforts were concerned. .:

62-45716-225 p. 2

NES

REVIEWED BY BEHUFK TASK FORCE

A RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

brh

, NW 15937 DocId:32307127 Page 38

-20-

SECRET!

---

## Page 39

SECRET

(continued)

Ray also advised that Rogelio Cisneros, who was the chief

of clandestine activity of the MRP in Cuba and who was currently in

Miami, would be able to furnish additional information concerning

Murillo.

il

105-95804-7 p. 2

(11) V

On 5/2/61, Dr. Ruben De Leon Garcia, Miami, Coordinator of

the Armed Forces of

the Republic of Cuba in Exile (2-1707) furnished

a report in Spanish which set forth four separate groups of exiled

Cuban military personnel.

Comprising one group were officers who

wished to keep the rank as leaders but who considered themselves as

separate from the other groups.

Among those listed in this group was

Colonel Ramon Barquin Lopez and Lieutenant Colonels Manuel Varela

Castro and Jose E. Monteagudo Fleitas.

All were involved politically

with Manuel Ray,

head of the MRP, which was considered a left-wing anti-

Castro organization by Dr. De Leon.':::

Translation of report set out

2-1707-3 p. 12

(1)V

On 5/4/61, Emilio Guede Fernandez (105-94082), 1220 W. 60th

inste at rid eating can h had be one rong 1.

sympathetic with the anti-Castro underground movement headed by Manuel

He continued that while in Madrid he communicated with Ray in

subsequently was invited by Ray to come to Miami as he felt he could

use him in connection with anti-castro propaganda. Guede went to

Miami on 12/18/60. 4:

On 5/9/61, Rigoberto Castellanos, PSI (protect identity), a

Cuban exile who was closely acquainted with Ray and who had knowledge

one the winter can can adel castero.

l, advised that Guede

According to source,

Guede lived a short distance from Ray in Hialeah..

Add. info, according to the "Miami News," 3/23/60.

105-94082-5 p. 1,3-5,7

(8) V

-22-

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 39

---

## Page 40

SECRET

The State Department advised that on 8/22/61, Dr. Carlos

Prio Socorras (109-430), former President

of Cuba currently living in

the US,

met with a group of exiles, members of the Association of Cuban

Industrialists

and Businessmen, in Mexico.

During the course of the

Praised, Dr. Prio spoke harshly about Dr. Miro Cardona but highly

Manuel "Tony" Varona and Manolo Ray.

He stated that the US

was keeping Cardona as head of the CRC because he, unlike the other

two, had refrained from criticizing the US over the invasion fiasco.(R(u)

109-430-2409

DECLASS pER DOS PER

(28)V

thEre 1E1 DID 1-6-48

510/KSR

A Newark report dated 8/22/61 revealed that George R. Damon

(105-63729) had told numerous individuals on Long Beach Island the

following: Damon was a close friend of Manuel Rey, whom he described

as the leader of the anti-Castro forces in the US. Rey had made Damon

a colonel in the army that was attempting the overthrow of Castro.

Rey was currently in Miami and had commissioned Damon to purchase

notors for PT boats. Damon found motors he could obtain for $400. He

intended to charge Rey $750 plus $150 transportation charges.

stated that he made frequent trips to Cuba from Miami, presumably 1r

trips to cuba From kion

Damon

PT boats.

de would smuggle people out of Cuba for a fee but would not

allow them to take anything on board for fear of their concealing a

bomb.

Damon further stated that he could obtain any type of weapon

in the Miami area presumably from an arms cache belonging to Rey.

(Source not clear)

105-63729-14 p. 1,5

(46)V

On 8/29/61, Carlos Francisco Arazoza Forcade (134-10688)

advised that many people had broken with Fidel Castro who were

originally allied with him not because Castro failed them but because

they failed Castro. One such individual was Manolo Ray, who was

currently Coordinator of the MiRe in the us.

was Minister of Public Works under Castro for a time and that Ray's

brother also had a good position in the Castro regime but was caught

nishandling funds and was either shot or committed suicide.

pliere a the big at are an at no not to a rot an a

industries.

Dr. Guillermo Gonzalez Fraga,

physicians at the Thomason General

Hospital in El Paso, were Ray's adherents although they were anti-

Castro. u:

134-10688-1 p. 7

(19629) V

-27-

SECRET

_Hi 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 40

---

## Page 41

SECRET

(continued)

Source continued that reports from Cuba indicated that the

people continued to have faith even though they might have withdrawn

all their support in the national cadres in exile, including Ray i

105-104188-6 p. 3,4

(12)V

Francisco Javier Soler, Cuban political refugee in New

Orleans, La., who was until June, 1961, Director of the Quality

Standards Section of the Ministry of Commerce in Cuba (protect identity),

advised that, to his knowledge, activity among underground groups in

He stated that he had no direct

information but understood that there was some strength in either the

group headed by Manolo Ray or Tony Varona. /

The above information was submitted in a New Orleans airtel

dated 1/11/62.

105-95461-47 p. 2

(24)V

CSNY 2822-S advised on 1/15/62, that Jose M. Franco who

was in charge of the Sales Department of

Azucarera Haina C. por A of

the Dominican Republic (DR), had been in NYC since 1/1/62 contacting

numerous sugar brokers concerning future sales of Dominican sugar to

Franco stated

that after thirty years of dictatorship, the DR would need a very

liberal and left of center government.

He indicated that the troubles

of the DR were

due to "Yankee imperialism."

He continued that at

present the US had a government which thought along very liberal and

leftist lines. Franco then stated that Manuel Ray Rivero had beei

i 10e boy

sent by the US to assist the reconstruction in the DR. YU)

109-12-211-1263

(16436)V

SECRET!

-30-

15937

DocId: 32307127

Page

41

---

## Page 42

•SECRET!

who had recently left Cuba,

reported that Manuel

on 7/25/62 Ray, despite his leftist thinking, and Jose

Miro Cardona were the most highly respected Cuban exile leaders

according to the rebel organizations in Cuba.

105-95461-115 p. B,4

(11)V

On 8/3/62, Gerardo Gabriel Antonio Hernandez Perez

advised that he and many other Cubans had a

several Cuban exile leaders, including Manuel

probably would have stayed if there had been sufficient opportunity

for them to advance politically and financially. Hernandez classified

Ray as probably the most ambitious of any and as anti-American as any

of the exiled leaders. :'

105-113456-1 p. 7

(34)V

Noel Gonzalez Mantici (105-116815), a Cuban alien in Miami,

considered himself a close friend of Manuel Ray, who was formerly

a member of the anti-Castro CRC in Miami. (Source not clear,

probably N1 776-5, 8/10/62)(AFU1)

105-116815-1 p. 4

(14)V

A CIA report dated 8/22/62 indicated that Manuel Ray, former

MRP leader, was seeking a combined command of all five resistance

groups in

Cuba and a pooling of funds

strength to the resistance movement. (v)

the CRC to give greater

( 11) V

Kaa (+24, 326)

161€

Manolo Ray.

105-111831-8 p. 3

(25)0

SI 105-111831-5

(25) V

-36-

Hh 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page

42

SECRETI

---

## Page 43

SECRET

595. 2, 7-1

On 10/10/62,

Jorge Estiva was interviewed at 1878 W.

Flagler st.,

Miami, which address had been the hagrs of the

Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionaria Cubano (Cuban Revolutionary

Recovery Movement) (MRRC) (105-108646). Estiva advised that the

MRRC had been dissolved in mid-September, 1962, and that most of the

members had been absorbed by the recently formed JURE, which took

over the above haqrs.

Source stated that

JURE was organized in

Puerto Rico by the well-known anti-Castro Cuban, Manuel Ray, and

included members from five different anti-Castro groups?::

105-108646-15

(12)V

On 10/11/62, PSI Jeronimo Esteve, Jr. (protect identity

advised that he had known Gonzalo Dean Suarez (105-114953) personally

for a number of years, both in Cuba and since his arrival in Puerto

Rico. He,

according to source, favored Fidel Castro at one time but

was currently regarded as being very anti-Castro and pro-American.

At one time, he was considered to be a follower of Manolo Ray, a

Cuban exile residing in Puerto Rico and presently employed by the

Puerto Rican Planning Board, but was not known to currently favor Ray

105-114953-2 p. 2

(27)

On 10/16/62, Alberto Gutierrez De La Solana, NY, advised

that he was associated with a new anti-Castro organization known as

"Alpha 66" (105-112098). He related that there had been many rumors

that Engineer Manuel Ray was one of the leaders of that group but

that he had thoroughly checked this rumor and found it to be untrue.

He indicated that if Ray had been connected with the organization In

any way, he would have immediately severed his relationship. i

105-112098<68 p. 2

(12625)V

(4)

(105-114953)

began working there on 11/1/62.

reference Manolo Ray, Puerto Rican Planning Board, Santurce, Puerto Rico.

105-114953-5 p. 1

(27)

-37-

SECRET

WW 45937

DocId:32307127 Page 43

---

## Page 44

SECRET

A CIA report dated 1/23/63 revealed that Angel Miolan,

chairman of the Partido Revolucionario Dominicano (PRD - Dominican

Revolutionary Party, had been approached by JURE, headed by Manuel

to obtain permission from the PRD to

representation in the Dominican Republic fl U)

establish JURE

109-12-211\1705

(16/36)V

By letter dated 2/15/63 at Miami, Robert H. Hoadley (134-9231)

offered to assist the Bureau on the Cuban

and Latin American situation.

He praised the Bureau but mentioned several things he could not under-

stand such as,

"How can you believe that Mr. Miro Cardona is a real

anti-communist? - I can mention others' names as Manuel Ray, Justo

Carrillo, Felipe Pazos, etc."

He also set out references who could

verify his good mental

condition.

It was noted that he was formerly contacted as a PSI in

Niami but was dropped when

his army record, which showed a discharge

It was further noted that Hoadley

should be contacted but that he should not be utilized as a source....

134-9231-8

( 19)V

A CIA report dated 2/27/63 concerning Jose Julian Perez Vidal

(105-03791), Who arrived in Miami from Cuba on 1/18/63 aboard the Red

Cross flight, named Manuel Ray Rivero, current head of JURe and a very

neater eassibilities oner the in the tastro gie

among the men with the

CIA INFO REMAINS CLASSIFIED

AS IS 1, 4 PER THEIR 17/3190 LTR.

105-63791-25

(3,33)V

CIA reported that Manuel Artime (105-85440) had a scheduled

appointment on 3/9/63 in San Juan, Puerto Rico, with

• Governor Luis

Munoz Marin. He intended to discuss the Cuban

situation, the Dominican

and hoped to receive some

ti-castro support Artie indicated that it eas the under-

standing that at present there was a personal rift between Munoz and

Ray and that this was an opportune time to make the trip to Puerto Rico.

105-85440-10

(4)V

-40-

*SCRET

1HW 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page 44

---

## Page 45

• SECRET

On 5/31/63, PSI Rafael Valdes (protect identity) stated

that there had been

a strong rumor among Cuban exiles that Gutierrez

the military leader of the Second National Front of Escambray

some kind of

PSI Rafael Valdes (protect identity) reported that on

6/4/63 he met with Gutierrez Menoyo in NY at which time he learned

that Gutierrez had been spending much time with JURE members in an

effort to reach some type of agreement but that as of 6/4/63, no

agreement had been made.

Gutierrez had no1

personally spoken with

inanco Ray the the latter was in ax during

the weekend of 6/1/63 but Ray would return to NY on the weekend of

3/8/63 and he, Gutierrez, might meet with him then. (pU)

105-112098-297 p. 3,4

(12\26)V

Rafael Valdes, PSI under development (protect identity)

advised that on 6/14/63 he conversed with Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo during

which time he learned that there had been no union of the Second

National Front of Escambray (SNFE) - Alpha 66 (105-112098) with JURE.

Gutierrez stated that there were many difficulties to overcome before

any union could be made with JURE, which was headed by Manuel "Manolo"

Ray. Informant related that Gutierrez spoke very bitterly concerning

Lay and stated that Ray tale)ly to get all anti-castro organizations

inder the control of JURE

It was noted that Gutierrez was the Military Chief of SNFE.

105-112098-315 p. 1a,3,4

(12,26 )

On 6/14/63, Manuel Artime Buesa, 6151 Southwest 16th Terrace,

advised that he was formerly

a doctor and Rebel Army

Mi ficer in cuba and was currently head of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario (MRR) (97-4133).

He related that recently he had been

conferring with several anti-Castro organizations in regard to forming

a coordination of military efforts against Cuba. He stated that he

refused to meet with such left-wing organizations as those of Manuel

Ray aná Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo whom he considered extremists and

demagogues. u

97-4133-63 p. -2

(2) v

-44-

SECRET:

N₩ 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page 45

---

## Page 46

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

Ray presided over MRP meeting at home of

relipe razos, cuban nationa

in Rio

Piedras, Puerto Rico; explained MRP's

purpose.

(Juan Agiular, protect identity,

1/4/61)

Ray reportedly slipped in and out of Cuba

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

2713 ₽. 11,12

(16)v

Ambassador, closely associated with MRP

leadership. (NN 639-5, January, 1961) (2)

Ray was member of Castro's organization

in underground in Havana, Cuba, during

1957-1958; well experienced in sabotage

and underground activities.

(Hugo

Gonzalez Lajonchere,

working with FRD

underground, 1/6/61)

И)

"Countdown for Castro, "Dy Joseph Martin

and Phil Santora discussed

anti-Castro

novements and dedicated cold-blooded

Article set out

of Ray; his desire for "Fidelism without

Fidel;" the names of his allies; his

possible leftist leanings; his acceptance

by the US Government; and his dispassionate

sub A,

18)V

Ray was head of MRP. (Investigator

Mitchell Solomon,

Counter-Revolutionary Organizations."

(Date of mail 1/23/61) (63(4) F7N52/50683446 16/73

lajority of most important front group:

such as MRP headed by Ray led either b

known communists or purely political

opportunists.

Ray,

openly declared that only thing wrong

"NY Daily News"

1/10/61

Document enclosed

2693 enc1. p. 3

( 16)V

45) V

(continued on next page).

-46-

SECRET

|WH 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 46

---

## Page 47

SECHLI

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

the thought that Ray was

a communist or

wanted to retain communist order of

government in Cuba but while Ray was

leftist other MRP Executive Committee

members were rightists; Ray leading

Executive Committee member.

(Armando

Lora, Miami, Fla. 3/14/61):

Former Minister of Public Works in Cuba;

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

In early April, 1961 invasion of Cuba

ехрестеа; Miro Cardona, Provisional

President of Cuba, visited anti-Castro

camp in Guatemala

with

Ray ordered underground, in Cuba to assist

and cooperate with any invasion forc

which might land in Cuba.

we elved in ormation am reston

Betancourt, MRP member, who reportedly

received information from Ray) (A)X

Ernesto Betancourt of MRP in Washington, DC,

i.n, almost nightly telephonic contact

With Ray prior to April,

1961 Cuban

invasion. (WF-1161JS)

All Cuban exiles for unity

against

Castro but unity being prevented by

Ramiro Loys, confidential source

(protect identity) Date not given))

Since failure of invasion on 4/17/61,

Kay planned to leave FRD as MRP blamed

FRD for the failure.

(Armando Lora,

Miami, Fla.

member

of HRP Executive

Board, 5/31/61)

1,:!

Ray addressed student group at Harvard

Jniversity on 5/3/61 recommending

continuance of revolution against Castro

and was well received. (Gustavo De Aragon,

former Cuban Consul at Boston, Mass.,

Cuban Consulate)

-48-

,773

(28)v

2960

(28) v

1770

2247V

(continued on next page)

SECRET

N 15937 DocId:32307127 Pagé 47

---

## Page 48

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

Prior to invasion of Cuba on 4/17/61

there was much discontent among pilots

of invasion force over insistence that

Ray be accepted as a member of the RC.

Pilots understood Ray was forced on

Council by US State Department.

Practically all Cuban exiles agreed

Ray must be dropped from Council.

Matias Farias, who participated in

recent Cuban invasion, 5/5/61) in

Informant in close contact with Ray.

Prior to 4/17/61 Cuban invasion, fay

against bloodshed and violence

currently sought violent overthrow

of Castro. Ray had practically given

up on US assistance and would

seek

support in Latin America.

contemplated residing in

Costa Rica

where he would wage a campaign against

Cuban Government.

Supposed to meet

in Florida during week of 7/9/61

with other Cuban

eaders. (NY 3248-

PSI, 7/10/61) (R^И)

Meeting at home of Dr. Guillermo

Alonso Pujol, former Vice President

of Cuba, during weekend of 7/15/61

scheduled to be attended by Ray and

other leaders of anti-Castro organi-

zations for purpose of uniting to

overthrow Castro. (NY 2865-S)() (U)

Ray denounced FRU and planned

further association with it.

(MM 639-S, 5/25/61)

)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

2854

(17)

2894

(17)V

910 Pr 1,

36)

(Miami newspapers (unidentified), mid

July, 1961)

Some MRP members claimed the organi-

zation in Miami refused to accept

Ray's replacement from Cuba and claimed

that organizations in Miami and Cuba

should mutually decide on replacement

rather than the Board naming

Cate a " 095, 97/187313 CRET

(continued on next page)

•NN 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 48

---

## Page 49

SECRET

(continued) • (105-117222)

INFORMATION

Prior to August, 1961, Ray head of MRP.

MRP considered largest

most significant

in underground in Cuba.

(No source)

Suspended from MRP membership.

(Ignacio

Mendoza De La Torre, Miami Beach, Fla.,

7/28/61) 121

Resigned from MRP.

Mendoza, supra,

September, 1961)

MRP torn by strife over status of Ray.

Ray would be maintained in advisory

capacity by Mke and would not have any

absolute power to act for the organizatior

as previously.

(Numerous informants

identified

(Date of mail 10/3/61)

il!!

MRP broken into 2 factions in Puerto

Rico: the larger group under one

"Gelabert" (phonetic), the smaller group

under Ray. Ray employed by Commonwealth

of Puerto Rico's Planning Commission.

MRe lost many members due to "socialistic"

policy of Ray. (PSI Juan Fernando

Aguilar Leon and/or PSI (UD)|

1 (protect identities)

(Date of mail 11/24/61)/

Former

head of MRP in Miami,

currently

in Puerto Rico. (No source, date of mail

1/9/62)

Ray was

associate of Armando Pessino,

industrialist who stated he backed

Castro because of a need for increased

social benefits for Cuban workers.

(Bureau Agent obtained information or

3/15/62)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

959 P: 5

(17/36),

2940

(17)V

•.-

19831

OTHER 4

047 P. 1.

17)v

3109

(17)

(continued on next page)

-50-

SECRET

j Nw 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page 49

---

## Page 50

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

Ray employed by US Government in the

Alliance for Progress program; formerly

headed the MRP; considered by

majority

of Cuban exiles as anything from outrigh

communist to a "leftist" in his thinking

which resulted in MRP being thought of

as extremely liberal.

not clear, possibly 5/8/627e(2)

Ray returned to Puerto Rico on 5/17/62

grant nuerto 18. 40 attack Cuba, 01р

consisting of war materials and

financial assistance.

Other Cuban exile

leaders in Puerto Rico distrustful of

Manolo Ray on basis of his political

philosophy and decided they must be in

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3183 p: 19,20

(17)v

3179 p. 1,2

• (28)V

would claim he liberated ciect of

Бит 11E 105-990037

(4)

Dr. Ernesto Aragon Y Godoy,

233 E. 69th

st., NYC, who was secretary to Dr.

Jose

liro Cardona, President of CRC, advised

he and Cardona were informed on 5/26/62

by MRP in Havana that they should have

5 coordinators instead of

one.

Suggested were Fernandez Nuevo, Miami;

Joaquin Godoy, Miami; Andres Valdespino,

NYC; Ray of San Juan; and unidentified

individual. Aragon stated that Nuevo,

rodoy and Valdespino were against Ray.

Aragon saw small Chance of Ray bringing

together a following within ile. yaU

On 5/28/62, Aragon conversed with AG

regarding newspaper article relative to

replacement of Cardona with Ray. Aragon

said Ray would never have anything to do

with CRC. AG said, "we!l1 see" but left

impression that Ray would have no say

in CRC. (&)U1)

-51-

Hi 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 50

OTHER 4

(continued on next page)

SECRET

---

## Page 51

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

"Miami Herald" (date not given) reported

that Ray would replace Miro Cardona as

head of CRC.

On 5/29/62, United Press

International indicated that according

to State Department, above report

unfounded.

Appointed to co-ordinating committee

of MRP in Exile but refused appointment

Joaquin Godoy, 133 San Sebastian,

Coral Gables, Fla., 6/20/62) (u)

Ray had practically no following in

Puerto Rico or US and Cuban exiles

considered him left of center.

a communist but advocated most of ideas

practiced by Castro. Mariano Roca

PSI, protect identity, 5/6/62)

576762110121)

Ray said that all "Popular" political

factions outside Cuba would be accomodated

in a new JURE in an effort to restore

splintered movement into an effective

working organization; that Movement would

be financed almost entirely by Cubans.

("San Juan Star," 7/24/62)

Ray, Junta Revolucionaria Cubana (JURE,

leader and consultant for Puerto Rico

Planning Board, would head group of

underground personnel expected at

gathering of Cuban exiles. in Ponce,

Puerto Rico on September 15 and 16,

1962,

to plot overthrow of Fidel Castro.

("San Juan Star" 9/4/62)

9/4/62 article was result of efforts

by Ray, who was using current Cuban

crisis

to attempt to regain political

prestige he once held among Cuban exiles.

Cuban exiles not expected to attend

meeting as they had no confidence in Ray

or his

ideas.

prohist dentity 114/62: Lero, PS1,

07610376 i protect oris,

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3275 p. 1,3,15

(18)V

3284 encl. p. 1-3.

(28)V.

(continued on

next page)

-52- SECRET

HW 45937

DocId:32307127 Page 51

---

## Page 52

SECRET

(continued)

INFORMATION

(105-117222)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

Regarding same article, the prediction

that 113 Cubans expected to attend

meeting was strictly propaganda by Ray.

Meeting expected to fail but Ray. and

followers would continue efforts to

vin exiles by trickery and fals

propaganda, efforts.

(Jeronimo esteve

Jr., supral* (U1)

Junta Revolucionaria met in Rio Canas,

Puerto Rico, during September, 1962,

and mapped

strategy to throw

Russians and Fidel Castro out of Cuba;

Ray chosen by Junta as one of the leaders

of a nine-man directorate.

Between 9/24/62 and 10/6/62, Miro

Cardona informed State Department he

was ready and willing to unite with any

Cuban organization dedicated to overthrow

of current Cuban regime except Ray's

forces

or any former criminals.

Cardona

concerned over pressure by State

Department to readmit Ray into the

Consejo, believed to ultimately be

coming from Governor Luis Nunoz Marin of

Puerto Rico who supported Ray.

statements made by State Department.

cardona believed State might pressure

him to join forces with Ray. CIA had no

use for Ray who would never

be. read-

mitted to the Consejo if up to them.

st.; Bree delegate of did 233 8. 69th

"Counterrevolutionary Handbook,

dated 10/10/62, compiled by CIA

contained survey of anti-Castro

organizations.

Numerous information

set out regarding Ray's connection

with the ine, Jurt and Alpha 06-69 4)

CIA INFO IN LAST E

•QASSIFIED

PERTHEIRY

4319011R

(9711,226)

ub A "The Miami Herald'

29)V 9/19/6

3332 p. 2-4

(18) V

(continued on next page)

- 53-

HW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 52

CECRET

---

## Page 53

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

Ray stated that 40 was total membership

of JURE in Puerto Rico; presided over

JURE meeting in Santurce, Puerto Rico,

in early January; claimed JURE had $3,000

in bank.

Block

Here to prote are, 4/1063; u2

Ray considered by Cuban exiles in

Miami as

Miami as being anything from a communist

to an extremely radical nationalist.

Exiles believed he would only replace

government officials with his personal

friends but would not change form of

government if Castro were overthrown

by him.

Since Ray was so highly

controversial and discredited by exiles,

his organization might never be

acceptable to them.

Exiles complained

that Ray received backing from Governor

Munoz Marin of Puerto Rico; was

favorably written about by US press;

and apparently was well considered

by US State Department. AM 639-S,

2/1/632021

roo Cardoty, aresident of cRe,

1963, Dr. Jose

complained to former Senator Santiago

Rey Pernas that US State Department

instructed him to try to cooperate

with Ray and even attempt to support

him.

Miro expressed disgust and

stated it was time for organizations

like Ray's to form liaisons with Miro

for purpose of being able to plan

action should US support of Ray become

pronounced. (CIA)

Jose Ruiz-Williams

Alfert,

second in

command of heavy artillery during April,

1901 invasion, contacted Ray in Puerto

Rico in connection with uniting Cuban

exiles. ("The Miami News," 5/10/63)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3414 p. 26,27

(18)V

3534352

257537; 2

-54-

NW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 53

(continued on next page)

SECRET

-...-

---

## Page 54

SECRET

(continued) . (105-117222)

INFORMATION

Same information as serial 3575 according to

"The Miami Herald," 5/11/63

MRP, Second Front of Escambray, Alpha

66, 30th of November and Frente Anti-

Comunista de Liberacion agreed to

unite in attempt to overthrow Castro.

JURE, headed by Ray, approached group for

admission but decision not reached as

JURE regarded as being considerably to

left of other organizations.

Godoy, in charge of Foreign

(Joaquin

I Affairs

and Public Relations of MRP, Nay 16 and

19, 1963) 11:

As of 5/27/63, Ray had not signed with

unity

(MM- 639-S)

И)

Ray was former Minister of Public

Works under Castro; deposed as Cuban

head of MRP; currently believed to be

living in Puerto Rico. (CIA rpt.

5/28/63)

Edwin Martin,

Assistant Secretary of

State for Latin American Affairs,

mentioned, in a speech, 5 exile

organizations, including JURE headed

by Ray, as only organizations with

clandestine assets.

JURE believed

by exiles to be group most favored by

US Government as declarations of Ray

were appearing in the press and his

prominence being pushed by Governor

Luis (Munoz) Marin of Puerto Rico and

President Romulo Betancourt of Venezuela,

both of whom had excellent contacts

in Washington. (CIA rpt. 5/30/63) # (4)

CIA INFO IN &

1S REMAINS

CLASSIFIED PER THEIR 1 2/31/80

LTR.

586054/60 24 94) 41/91

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

570

18)V

4514

2604 р. 6

3583

358533

(continued on next page)

-55-

SECRET

HW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 54

---

## Page 55

SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

Ray aware of widespread discontent with

economic and ideological policy of

Castro government but stated that now

was not the time to take any serious

overt action.

Ray and

others claimed

that Fidel Castro realized people's

discontent with Raul Castro

"and Ernesto

"Che" Guevara and intended to correct

situation before 1/1/60 but this was

doubted.

orior to tall of batista

Regarding Cuban Cabinet reorganization

of 11/20/59, Luis Baralt, Cuban ConsulLS,

General in NYC, concerned about Ray

(Minister of Public Works prior to

reorganization) whom

he considered one

of the Cabinet's best men. Baralt CS

stated that Ray lost Cabinet position

because he protested treatment of

Major Hubert Matos (arrested in Cuba

on charges of treason). (NY 2494-S*)(S)

Same information as above.

Same information as above according

to HAV-4 and/or Octavio Valdes, prominent

head of construction firm in Havana. (

Article captioned, "Pro-Red Takes Over

Cuba's Bank" set out Cuban Cabinet

changes.

Ray made president of army's

Superior Institute of Science and

Technology, an apparent new post.

Ray

reportedly had been trying to leave

Castro's official family.

Same information as above according.to

CIA.

в и)

¿i intormation as above according to

CLAINFOIN LAGTZIPS

REMAINS CLASSIFIED PER

THE 112 12

- 60-

SP6 BSA/GOL 5211,326)

, NH 15937h18bcId:32307127 Page 55

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

987.

(14)V

Sub A-"NY, Times" 11/27/59

(15/35)V

892

(45)

Sub A "New York Herald

(15)V Tribune" 11/27/59

105%533

989

(14)V

(continued on next page)

SECRET

-=*.

---

## Page 56

SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

Herbert Matthews of "New York Times"

stated that the "young crowd" considered

Ray a moderate who did his best to apply

orthodox theories, methods and practice

[x 2494-31967)

revolutionary situation.

Raul Chibas and Ray allies in anti-Castro

movement.

Ray replaced by Osmani

Cienfuegos as cabinet member under Castro.

Ray no have rent an a cun

an embassy in Havana. Data concerning

movement would possibly be available when

Chibas and Ray arrived in US.

(Orlando

Alvarez Barquin, Vice President, Cubana

Airlines, 7/23/60)/i

Same information as above.

Same information as above according to

State Department. (V)

Ray's MRP gaining in strength and

effectiveness.

Because of prestige

ne enjoved as revolutionary leader

lurind

luring Batista period Nd as competent

Public worKs

Cubat Pate Department, September, 1960) (0)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

1005 p. 1

14)V

,050 p: 1-3,

15)V

073

15)V

.022 p.

14)V

311 p. '

27)6

314

(continued on next page)

-61-

SECRET

, NH 45937

DocId:32307127 Page 56

---

## Page 57

SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

Many in Cuba disappointed that US

Cuba Ray rather a Kon communist.

Ray very friendly with Castro while Ray

Minister of Public Works. Anti-Castro

underground camps in Cuba near rebellion

when Ray's position in contemplated

new government announced.

Sherlock

Hackley, 760 Park Avenue, MYC, 4/17/617 13)

Ray prominent member of Revolutionary

Council in Miami.

(Source not clear;

date of mail 4/28/61)

Ray invited to speak before Cooperative

Forum, Room 401, Union Station,

Washington, D.C

tentatively scheduled

for 6/7/61

or 6/14/61; given privilege

of selecting his own audience. (WF (I161-S)/K(U)

Ray

attended above meeting on 6/7/61

during which he held question and answer

session.

Gave impression to those in

attendance that he was one of few

Cubans possessing leadership ability

Cuban military field. (WF (1161-S)

Puerto Rican Governor Luis Munoz Marin and

Dr. Ramon Suarez, eminent Puerto Rican

physician, extremely interested in frank

appraisal of attitude of Ray, recently

denounced leader of MRP who had receivec

considerable adverse publicity.

Ray was

an engineer, well educated, a good

organizer, quite determined, anti-

American, dangerously to the left, and

unclear on certain vital matters. Ray

dropped from MRP \leadership because of

his leaders' dissatisfaction with his

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

2891

15)v

1977 p. 2

3036

(28)

, 088

28)v

237 Po 2g

154

(continued on next page)

-62-

SECRET!

11W 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page 57

---

## Page 58

SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

(Fidelism without Fidel). In latter

July, 1961, Governor Munoz refused to

help Ray politically but offered

assistance in obtaining him an

engineering

position.

Ray apparently

undetermined, allegedly having

received attractive offer from

someone in US with Latin American

interests.

Ray appeared to be politically

dead as a Cuban leader. (Dr. Agustin

Castellanos Gonzalez, under development

as a PSl-Cuba, protect identity, 8/6/61)

19 86865 (4)

Dr. Miguel Buch among controversial

Cuban doctors in US.

He belonged to

Ray's group; was not known to have

attacked communism or Castro publicly.

(PST roustin Castel ü)

no puttiery.

Identity, 1/8/02%

Jorge Barroso, head of Sugar Institute

in Cuba during Batista regime, advised

CSNY 2822-S on 2/1/62 that Governor

Luis Munoz Marin* regretted recommending

Ray for membership as he lacked leadership

qualities. (%)(U)

Ray approached by Captain Perez Alamas

(fnu), former Chief of G-2 in Camaguey,

and Manuel Toyos, member of the Huber

Matos group in exile, regarding reaction

of followers of Matos should Cuban Govern-

ment release some 2,000 political

prisoners in exchange for a "do-nothing-

against-Castro" policy when Castro started

campaign against Cuban communists which

would return 26 of July Movement to power.

355} p. 1

35553023

1009/

15/35)r

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

(continued on next page)

*of Puerto Rico

-63-

SECRET

| HH 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page 58

---

## Page 59

SECRET:

REFERENCES NOT INCLUDED IN THIS SUMMARY

Records Branch, were not reviewed:

REFERENCE

564-330-210-1063 (5)

1109

105-86020-788

850

105-89923-134

152

155

164

187

-A "NY Herald Tribune" 1/9/61

-A "Sunday Visitor" 5/14/61

-A "The Worker" 11/14/61

-A "NY World Telegram" 2/23/62

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(1a0)

(5)V

(5)V

(5)V

(5)*

(5)V

(22)V

(5)0

(22)V

See the search slip filed behind file for other references

on this subject which contain the same information (SI) that is set

Differences in source will be noted on the

-65-

SECRET

45937

DocId: 32307127

Page,

59

---

