JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10289-10112

HQ

92-4225-76

Date:

4/23/201

Document Information

FBI
SAC, PH
DIRECTOR, FBI

09/04/1959
1

JFC, HOULIHAN, FREDERICK T., ASST, SUBPOENA, TEST

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

05/18/1998

INDEFINITE

vO.1
| DocId:32305982 Page 1


A =

a

Office Memorandum ° UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

To : Director, FBI DATE: 9/4/59

(92-746)

( OM: SAC, Philadelphia.

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES VERSUS BONANNO, et al
SOUTHERN. DISTRICT OF NEW YORK
CRIMINAL 159-35
TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

“
eu ReBulets 8/31 and 9/3/59.

PAUL J. RENNARD (PH 525-C) was recontacted pursuant
to relets 9/4/59 by SA FREDERICK T. HOULIHAN. RENNARD said
he would agree to allow the information which he furnished
to SA GEORGE R. JOHNSON regarding MEDICO and BUFALINO to be
given to the Department for review. He said he would not
agree to furnish the Department with other information which
he has furnished to the FBI.

He said he has already been served with a subpoena
by Agents of the U. S..Treasury Department to appear as a
witness 10/26/59 in New York City. He ‘said his employer,
LOUIS PAGNOTTI, had also been served with a Subpoena to ap-
pear the same date. He said in view of this he was* willing
to testify to the information regarding repace and BUFALINO
which he furnished to SA JOHNSON,

- B RE
1 - Phila. (92-746) ae

FTH:ERG
(3)

| Docla:32305982 Page 2
