# docid_32307373

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10292-10076

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2824-81, 82, 83

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

05/04/1961

PAGES:

39

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

JFC, REL, TRA, SUR, ASSOC, CRIM ACT, RES, APALACHIN

MEETING, ATTORNEY, B/F INT, GAMBLING OPERATION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

05/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC RPT, A/T

v9.1

NW 45754• DocId:32307373 Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

DL 92-36:

2.

If possible, identify CIVELLO's visitor

from New

York, named FRUZZIO (PH) who had previously been in the

bakery

business in New York City but is

now in the grocery business

in up-state New York.

DALLAS DIVISION

AT TYLER, TEXAS

1..

Contact local authorities

for complete information

re arrest of EDWARD ARTHUR STRICKLAND for Smith County

authorities on 9/2/60 by Dallas

so.

2.

Obtain descriptive data and photograph.

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

Contact PCI HODGES DUBOISE HAMILTON for additional

information concerning CIVELLO's investments with HARRY DAVID

KAHN in oil leases.

2.

Will maintain contact with established sources;

continue spot checks and surveillances and'

attempt to develop

additional sources

relative to CIVELLO's current activity.

Will continue to identify possible associates of

CIVELLO and obtain background information concerning them.

Will recontact DL-105-C for more information con-

cerning the identity of CHARLIE GORDON of Kansas City.

Will attempt to obtain more information concerning

underworld investments in oil leases in Texas and more details

concerning the legal or illegal activities of the "Italian

group"

from which CIVELLO allegedly derives 2% of the proceeds.

6.

Obtain complete background information concerning

FRANK TORTORIELLO.

7.

Will contact officials at the Exchange Bank, Oak

Cliff Savings and

Loan Association and the Preston State

Bank for any further information concerning financial affairs

Of JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO, ROSS MUSSO and any

other individuals

connected with CIVELLO.

8.

Will discreetly review records of the Merchants

State Bank for information concerning CIVELLO and/or associates.

-C-

Cover Page

NW 45754 DocId: 32307373

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL: 92-36

ADMINISTRATIVE

INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following list of informants are

being utilized

in following the activities of CIVELLO:

DL- 105-C

PCI FRED M. SULLIVAN

PCI JOHN MICHAEL GRIZZAFFI

DL- 99-C

PCI WYNNE H. MILLER

PCI H. P. WHITE

PCI HODGES DUBOISE HAMTTINOM

Confidential

Source l

Confidential

Source

JEROME, J.

CRANE

Confidential Source

WILLIAM CRAIG

Confidential Source R. A. BURROW

Confidential Source EARL FINDLING

Confidential Source WILLIAM D. WILSON

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

T-1 is DL-105-C

T-21 is PCI FRED M. SULLIVAN

T 22

is It. JACK REVILL, Criminal Intelligence

Section, Dallas PD

T-23

is DL 99-C

T.-24

is PCI JOHN MICHAEL GRIZZAFFI

T-25 is

PCI WYNNE H. MILLER

T-26 is Confidential Source

3040 W.

Mockingbird Lane,

Dallas,

Texas

Careful consideration was given to each source

concealed by T symbols in this report and I symbols were

utilized only where identities must be concealed.

The above

individuals have been known to furnish reliable information

and have been in a position to furnish information concerning

CIVELLO's activities.

Investigation has been conducted by Dallas

with

the objective of installing misur at the Airway Liquor Store,

Egyptian Lounge or the

L & S Used Car Lot,

Mesquite, Texas

Investigation indicates the office located in the rear of

the Egyptian Lounge would be the most productive place for a

misur at this time.

practically all of CIVELLO's associates

gather at this location to discuss gambling activities and

other activities of Italians in the Dallas area. CIVELLO

∞ Do

Cover Page

NW 45754 DocId:32307373 Page 3

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

---

## Page 4

DI. 92-36

Informant stated that PHIL BOSCO 18 & chief

in the

numbers racket at the present time.

Dallas T-24 stated that

JOk

amd SAM

CAMPISI at the

Egyptian Lounge have

excellent contacts in the police

Department and Sheriff's Office in Dallas and can learn anything

they need to know.

They also have close contacts in the telephone

company and follow through on any installations made. Informant

mentioned that JOE CAMPISI used to be a pimp and still does a

little pimping of high class stuff out of the restaurant.

He

also stated

JOE CAMPISI has an extremely large sun of money

stashed away and that he is & heavy gambler and thinks nothing

of dropping two, three or four grand.

JOE CAMPISI is close

with w. 0.

BANKSTON and actually considers w. O. BANKSTON & god

and that w. O. BANKSTON could actually lead

• JOE

CAMPISI in any

direction necessary.

On May 10, 1961, Dallas T-25 advised SAS MILTON L.

NEWSOM and ROBERT M. BARRETT that he has been doing business

with CIVELLO and CIVELLO's brother-in-law and sister, Mr. and

MrS. ROSS MUSSO for approxinately 5 years.

He said CIVELLO

has also done business with ED BUTLER who operates a service

station at 3040 West Mockingbird Lane, Dellas.

Informant recalled that on several occasions during

his

acquaintance with CIVELLO, the subject came into informant's

station acconpanied by an Italian looking individual who

has given the impression he was fron New York.

He described

this person as & white male about 50, 5'10", large build,

large protruding eyes. Informant stated this person appears

in Dallas with CIVELLO approximately once every three or

four months and on each of these occasions, informant has

observed that CIVELLO will go unshaven for two or three days

and appear to be extremely busy.

Dallas T-25 once asked

CIVELLO what he was doing during one of these periods and

CIVELLO stated he had a "game going" and mentioned Arlington

and Rockwall, Texas as

being the place where the game was

taking place.

Dallas T-25 stated be can talk with Mrs. MUSSO

ss he feels he is better acquainted with her than

with

other members of the CIVELLO household.. He feels he will

-20-

NW 45754 DocId: 32307373 Page 4

---

