JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10342-10169

DE

AGENCY FILENUMBER: —ELSUR 92-228-921
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: ISEMAN
TO: DE
TITLE:
DATE: — 07/16/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
ANTHONY GIACALONE (ELSUR)
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
* RESTRICTIONS: 4 ,
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 12/01/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

VOL
Docld:32315451 Page 1


£D-209 (Rev. $962)
fetes entail ~

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO 3 sac DEMROT. (287d)

DATE: BfG sles

Oe ts
FROM : SA ZOSEER B, USEMAN -
(rc Cost
SUBJECT: RUSSELL RAYON SRIECK
Dates of Contact
B/27/82, G/1/63
Titles and File #s on which contacted
CLANS VILLIABS. WESE AR BBO?. ERT
OREVE REM, AS » SB.8SCS  CLENDD
HOES BRACALGHE, AR Oaidds. (BURL DURE
SsteRONY GTArARAMT, AR 2.238.
ARTO ARORA, BEG (fiawects 1B8=5
CHAMESS SUERUAN, an (Closed) B205SF :
Purpose and results of contact
(Clnecative
(positive
‘a
*
i eres etree eeor ee Yery Good Pres? ame
by him since last contact.

Personal Data

Ci aaa

2 = 237686 « = 8-8

= Beemees > Bee82°

Ssiycam #4 2 G29857

Ni dl

SEARCHED ~ G | J
SERIALIZE
ut 8 1963

DocId:32315451 Page 2


DE 137-30

VITO GIACALONE

AR

92-438

ANTHONY GIACALONE
AR

92-228

. PCI TRILCK advised on 6/1/63 that he had only
met ANTHONY GIACALONE on one occasion. He stated that
ANTHONY aiid VITO GIACALONE were introduced to him several
months ago by AMOS BOTTS. He stated that EOTTS owned
a Building in which there was a pool hail on West Jefferson |
in Ecorse, Michigan, and.that BOTTS had rented the upstairs .
of this hall to the two GIACALONE brothers where they ad
intended to operate a barbute game. He stated that from
the conversation he had with BOTTS the two GIACALONE
“““° prothers were the men who”would run the barbute game. an oa

sek

DocId:32315451 Page 3
