# docid-32293044-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10210-10320

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2713-169

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/01/1961

2

CM, SOURCE, INTV, INS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/04/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

17

---

## Page 2

N

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAY A 961

TeLetYea

Vr. J'oison_

Mr. Parsons.

Mr. Mohr._

"Mr.

*Belmont

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. 'Conrat

Mr. DeLoach.

Mr.

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen.

MI.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

"Tele. Room.

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

URGENT 5-1-61

4-35

PM CST MBK

DIRECTOR, FBI 92-2713

FROM SAC, NEW ORLEANS 92-36 P2

Stalems

CARLOS MARCELLO, AKA, AR. RE BUPHONE CALL TODAY, THIS OFFICE

FURNISHED TO LOCAL IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE

PAREN INS CLOSE. PAREN, NEW ORLEANS, LETTERHEAD MEMORANDUM DATED

THREE TWENTYONE, FIFTYEIGHT, SETTING FORTH INFORMATION SUPPLIED

BY NO PCI RAYMOND ROLLING, TO EFFECT THAT CARL IRVIN NOLL HAD

OBTAINED GUATEMALAN CITIZENSHIP FOR MARCELLO IN NINETEEN FIFTYSIX.

AT THAT TIME LOCAL INS OFFICE INDICATED INS PLANNED TO INTERVIEW

NOLL CONCERNING INFORMATION SUPPLIED BY OUR PCI• IN ANSWER TO

QUESTION ASKED BY BUCALL, RESULTS OF INTERVIEW WITH NOLL

AS SET OUT IN REPORT OF SA REGIS L. KENNEDY, NOV. TWENTYEIGHT,

FIFTYEIGHT, AT NEW ORLEANS NOT DISSEMINATED INS SINCE INS

ALREADY INDICATED THEY PLANNED TO INTERVIEW NEGE 87 SARCE T4713, - 16.9

INFO NOT DISSEMINATED, OTHER QUESTIONS NOT APPLICABLE IN 2E001

MEMO OF DEC, SIXTEEN, FIFTYNINE, NO ADVISED LOCAL INS D

OFFICE THAT NOLL, THEN IN USP, LEWISBURG, PA. AND HAD INDICATED.

- TO

6

6 MAY 121961

163

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

FBI AGENT THAT HE DID NOT DESIRE TO SERVE MORE PRISON TIME AND

ALSO INDICATED HE WOULD FURNISH ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONCERNING

MARCELLOS GUATEMALAN CITIZENSHIP IF SOME AGENCY COULD QUOTE

MAKE HIM A DEAL UNQUOTE. BY LETTER OF FEB. NINE, SIXTY, BUREAU

FORWARDED TO NEW ORLEANS REPORTS OF INTERVIEW OF NOLL BY INS

WHICH INTERVIEW TOOK PLACE JAN. SIX AND SEVEN , SIXTY AT USP, LEWISBURG

THIS MATERIAL REFLECTS THAT NOLL GAVE INS INVESTIGATORS DETAILS

CONCERNING HOW HE ARRANGED TO HAVE MARCELLOS NAME ENTERED INTO

BIRTH RECORDS OF SOME VILLAGE NORTH OF GUATEMALA CITY IN ABOUT

NINETEEN FIFTY SIX.

END AND ACK

6-40 PM OK FBI WA RAC

TU DIS

---

