# docid-32290879-1

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10206-10155

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-2781-669

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

SAC, TP

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 01/04/1963

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

-10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

6

---

## Page 2

1

Mr. Row

1 - Mr. J. D. Donohue

- MiS Buck

1 - Mr. Kelliher

January

8, 1963

1

SAC, Tampa (66-231 sub

REC-5:

92-1741669

Director, FSI

SANTO TRAFFICANTE,

dhoo

EX. - 115

JUNE

infireport

tournirtal dated Iol-63-

Bureau authority is grantod to rent

4603

property ot

River Mills

Drive, Tampa, as outined in

referencod airtel.

The Bureau should continue to receive @ weekly

airtol

summary o1 pertinent information developed from this

3148

MAK : PEw

-3-

NOTE:

Joseph Diez has been reported as one lethe top

lieutenants controlling gambling and other interests for Santo.- /

Trafficante, Jro, in the Florida area.

Previously Agents who

were in

contact with TP 79-C* were utilizing a shack on the

premises of 5114 Puritan Road, Tampa, which location did not

allow visual observation of the residence of Joseph Diez.

This property rental in connection with TP 79-C* was

Located through a former PCI of the Tampa Office.

The Tampa

Office is now in a position to rent property at 4603 River •

Hills Drive for $115 a month and a pro rata rate thereafter.

Tampa advised that this plant would operate with full security.

Tampa being authorized to rent available property.

MAILED 32

JAN 1 01963

COMM-FBI

AUL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DA 3,95B1

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr .

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

• DeLoach

Evans

"¿Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

• Holmes,

Gandy

7VN 7

SECEIAEU-EAVW?

MAIL ROOM WNUTELETYPE UNIT I

E RY

BECA

BACE

ЗЕГWлЗ

T 8 2156063

a 19 1 90h0102

1M11A9.

---

## Page 3

-3P(ReV. 12-13956)8

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

1/4/63

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, TAMPA (66-231-sub 4)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

AR

10-

JUNE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREING UNCLASSIFIEO

DATE 5/3/95 BY S168560 Ge

ReBulet 12/26/62.

In order to afford visual as well as technical

coverage of the residence of JOSEPH RAYMOND DIEZ, 4951

Puritan Road, Tampa, Florida, it has been desirable in the

past to obtain the rental of

a rental property at 4603 River

Hills Drive, Tampa, which is owned by WILBUR A. KRAUSE, former

PCI of Tampa Office.

However, the property on River Hills

Drive has been rented and unavailable to the Tampa Office.

+.

MY. KRAUSE has recently advised that the property

on River Hills Drive is now available and he would be willing

to rent it to the Bureau on a monthly basis at the rate of

$115.00 a month, which would include water, electricity, heat

and furnishings.

It was pointed out to him that the Tampa

Office, should the property be needed, might wish to dis

continue it after a month, and he advised that this would be

satisfactory to him and any period beyond one month would be

payable on a weekly basis.

He stated further that he would

provide fifty gallons of fuel for the heating unit, which

should be more than enough to last for a period of seven to

eight weeks.

In this regard, he said that should additional

heat be needed, the Tampa Office could pay for additional fuel

oil; however, there would be little likelihood of needing

further heat.

Bureau (RM)

REC-S

92-2784-669

Tampa

§ JAN

%

1963

LEB: KH

(4)

& CF Wick

Ati

Approved:

Sent

.M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

---

## Page 4

TP 66-231-sub 4.

As the Bureau is aware, Agents in contact with.

TP 79-C* are presently utilizing a shack on the premises

of 5114 Puritan Road, Tampa, and this property does not

allow visual observation of the residence of DIEZ.

Should

the property on River Hills Drive be rented, the Tampa Office

would move the plant from 5114 Puritan Road to the River

Hills Drive address, and in this manner fuller coverage.

could be given to DIEZ.

*CONF. INFT.

Bureau authority is requested to spend $115.00

for a one-month period and a pro-rata sun thereafter for

as long as l' 19-0 is activated, for rental of the

residence at 460s River Hills Drive.

If Bureau authority is given, the plant will be

moved as set out above, with full security.

---

