# docid-32308283

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10294-10141

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-72630-142

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/14/1970

74

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32308283

Page 1

25

---

## Page 2

CORRELATION SUMMARY

** Kee

Doc In

Main File No:

105-72630

See also:

2-1566 г

2-1597

39-2656

46-46398

105-83331°

100-429505

Subject: Pedro Iuis Oscar Diaz Lanz

•One Diaz*

Date 12-14-70

Date Searched: 5/23/69

All logical variations of subject's name and aliases were searched

and identical references were found as set out on page 2.

Also searched as Oscar Diaz. See page 72 in summary.

This is a summary of information obtained from a review of

all "see" references to the subject in Bureau files under the names

and aliases listed on page 2.

containing data identical with the subject have been included except

any indicated at the end of this summary under the heading REFERENCES

NOT INCLUDED IN THIS SUMMARY.

References indicated in the block as

SI contain the same information as the foregoing serial although

the information may have been received from a different source.

THIS SUMMARY HAS BEEN PREPARED FOR USE AT THE SEAT OF

GOVERNMENT AND IS NOT SUITABLE FOR DISSEMINATION.

• IT IS DESIGNED TO

FURNISH A SYNOPSTS OF THE INFORMATION SET OUT IN EACH REFERENCE,

AND

IN MANY CASES THE ORIGINAL SERIAL WILL CONTAIN THE INFORMATION IN

MORE DETAIL.

Analyst

fArlorence c. Quick

Coordinator

Josephine Telleri

Approved

Lawrence W. Brady

aler

FcQ:ece

*Not searched. See page 161 of search sllp.

mom

МСТ

ATI INDORSATION?"

/- ENCLOSURE

HORDEN IS ORRA

EXCEPT WIDONE SHOWN

CLASSESS

Enline Behind Pil I SE

DECLASSIFY ON:

BY: SP&MACILAL

teach slyes Only

JFK)

56 JAN2 1 1971

SLUREI

105-72630-142

i•=•+0•,+112

DEC 16 1970

30508283: Page 2

SATION.

CONSOR

---

## Page 3

On 1/20/59, Confidential Informant MM 639-S (134-6356)

advised that Carmen Villamia,

wife of Mario Villamia*, talked to

Juanita Castro, sister of Fidel Castro, while recently in Havana.

Carmen informed Juanita that MM 639-S was put out of Cuba by

Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz.

Juanita, who was a friend of informant,

talked to Raul Castro concerning this.

Raul was upset by Diaz'

action, as Informant was highly regarded by Raul.

134-6356-18

(47,81)

*July 26 Revolutionary Movement member.

• Mario Rosado Amat, 790 SE 6th Place, Hialeah, Fla.,

uncle of Hipolito Adolfo Canal Rosado (97-4329), advised that he visited

In Cuba in February, 1959, and Hipolito was in Cuba at that

time attempting to contact Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz who was then in

charge of the CAF, relative to painting work. Diaz Lanz did not

want to do business except with military personnel.

97-4329-20 p.3,11

(28,93)

CIA furnished

a copy of the undated de-briefing memorandum

of Olga Georgina Goicochei Salas (105-129981) who stated that

she and her husband were eating in the Pekin Restaurant, Vedado,

Cuba, in March, 1959, when Fidel Castro entered. It was then

that

she learned of Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo's Interest in the

revolutionary activities of other countries.

She Indicated that

she asked Castro for weapons with which to aid the anti-Somoza

guerrillas in Nicaragua. Castro instructed him to see Pedro Luis

Diaz Lanz then Air Force Chief, and to take 000-odd weapons which

Diaz Lanz had available. lU)

105-729981-11 enc1. D.5 KISSL

3%,103}

The 3/31/59 issue Of "Diario Las Americas"

, a Spanish

language daily newspaper published in Miami, Fla.,

carried an

article captioned "Organized Executive Committee of Ald to Cuba

In the County-Prominent Personalities in the Campaign to Collect

(continued)

-7-

DocId: 32308283 Page 3

---

## Page 4

On June, 10, 11 and 12,'1959, Captain Francisco

Rodriguez Y Tamayo, (105-78976) Cuban Army Captain, and his

attorney cousin Francisco Maria Rodriguez Couceiro, stated that

Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz was sympathetic with the anti-Castro move-

ment and that they both knew that Diaz Lanz was in fear of his

life.

They stated that recently Diaz Lanz took leave from the

A1r Force, claiming to be sick with typhus.

They believed that

Diaz Lanz

was suspected of sabotaging an airplane carrying Raul

Castro which crashed in the Cuban marshes approximately three weeks

before.

It was noted that leading collaborators who were secret

members of the Crusade of Revolutionaries Against Communism (no date)

included Diaz Lanz.

105-78976-13 encl. p.12,14

(30, 96)

Captain Francisco Rodriguez Tamayo advised on Tune,

10,11,12, 1958 that the underground movement of Crusade of

Revolutionaries Against Communism (CRAC) (97-3856) made considerable

progress.

Important government and military leaders of the Castro

regime were secret members of CRAC, one of whom was Major Pedro

Luis Diaz Lanz.

97-3856-9 p. 16

(25,907

MM 635 advised on 6/16/59 that Major Juan Almeida, who

fought with Fidel Castro in the Sierra Maestra, as of above date,.

was Acting Chief of the CAF in the absence of Pedro Luis Diaz

Lanz, who went on sick leave recently.

Almeida for his office back and he replied that Diaz would have

to wait until the Cuban Army and Air Force were united under Castro.

Diaz was anti-communist and pro-US. In the absence of Diaz,

Almeida removed between forty and forty-three pilots and co-pilots

from the Air Force.

Diaz decided

to stay with the Air Force

thirty days more and then reaccept leadership only on the condition

that he would not serve under Raul Castro.

Air Force staff members

loyal to Diaz planned an emergency escape from Cuba. Castro informed

Diaz to get the Air Force ready for an attack on the Dominican

(continued)

-9-

DocId:32308283 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Dirtine

Roberto M. Lands, Sales Manager, Cine Revista magazine,

Havana, Cuba (protect identity), advised that Guillermo Ramirez,

a Lieutenant in the Revolutionary Air Force, stated that four

Russians, names unknown, were giving training to cuban military

personnel at a farm known as

"El Cortijo" on the outskirts of

Havana.

Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz, who resigned on 6/30/59 was head

of the

CAF, in his letter of resignation he stated in part that

communist elements

exerted pressuré to achieve a plan of indoctrin-

ation in a school that functioned at the above-mentioned farm

and that they knew well who they were, where they were, and what

ends they pursued.

64-211-210-520 encl. p.ll

(23,88x

'During the first part of July, 1959, Armando Carmelo

Lopez Frega (97-3863) advised that several Individuals were

ordered back

to Cuba for questioning. Lopez believed that this

questioning was intended to determine the extent of sympathy

toward Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz, former Chief of the FAR who fled from

Cuba on 7/1/59, charging that the Castro Government and military

forces were communist-influenced. Lopez stated that Jorge Merlo,

former. Chief of Maintenance of the fighter squadron of the FAR,

was a friend of Pedro Diaz.

37-3063-5 p.5,

25%901

SI 97-3862-2 p.2

(25,62)

The following references in the main files of the

Individuals listed below set out information to the effect that

these individuals were officers or members of the Cuban FAR which was

headed by Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz as of January, 1959, who resigned

as Chief and defected to the uS on 7/1/59.

These individuals

also left the FAR and returned to the uS.

INDIVIDUAL

REFERENCE

Eduardo Alberto Felix

Ferrer Y Del Castillo

97-4168-249 p.12,33

SEARCH SLTP

PAGE NUMBER

127,927

(continued)

-I]-

DocId: 32308283 Page 5

---

## Page 6

:

SECRET

(continued)

INDIVIDUAL

Confidential Informant

MM 635-S

REFERÊNCE

234-5992-19 D.1

Manuel Joaquin Diaz:

Raul Manuel Rebenga

Fernandez

James Linwood Gentry, •Tr.

105-75110-10 p. 3,5

105-149783-1 encl. p.12

Paul Joseph Hughes

Douglas Leftbright

105-78365-6 encl.

-10 encl. p.4

-53 p. 41,42,45,46:

Interview p.41,42

8/23/60)

-90 p. 20,22,23,34

-92 p.5

105-72805-64 p.3

105-81194-2 p.2,3

-7

p.2,3

105-84950-8 p.5

Carlos Lazaro Hernandez

Lopez

Fernando Estanislao German

Franca Y Martinez

Gregorio Enrique

Hernandez Moya

105-173084-1 encl. p.2

105-178132-6 encl. p.2

SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

(16,80)

(164

801127

(29,6655)

1236.7147

130603)

(30-95)

(3680527

(254)

160)

18,687

129569)

123/747

(23475)

(continued)

-12-

DocId: 32308283 Page 6

---

## Page 7

(continued)

INDIVIDUAL

REFERENCE

Raul Manuel Cros Quintana

Manuel Iglesias Rodriguez

Hector Ricardo Garcia Soto

105-90526-2 p. 8,10,11

105-100005-4 encl. p.3

105-84951-22 p.4

SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMRER

(35.2027

(36/1027

134/997

The 4/11/59 issue of the "Miami Herald" revealed that

fifteen Cubans were rescued from their cabin cruiser in the Gulf

of Mexico by the US Coast Guard.

' MM 635-S advised on above-mentioned date that the fifteen

Cuban men admitted upon being interviewed by Major Pedro Luis Diaz

Lanz that they were en

route to Nicaragua with guns to start a

revolution at the time their boat ran out of gas.

On 7/2/59, Diaz Lanz in an interview advised that Robert

Verdaguer, Cuban Air Force Pilot, flew a plane to Nicaragua under

the orders of Fidel Castro during the recent invasion of Nicaragua.

109-12-222-627 p. 25,26,33

(47,106)

internal situation with Cuban Ambassador Ernesto Dihigo. Meyer]es)

pointed out that the former head of the CAF Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz

was being actively sought as a traitor to the Fidel Castro regime.

"Inner circle"

Leye i te evolutionary one eye let one there was a

of the Castro revolutionary regime.

a seriou

[62-60269-227 enc1.x(8|41

1(52,717)

-13-

DocId: 32308283 Page 7

---

## Page 8

The 7/23/59 edition of "El Mundo" contained an article

captioned "Two UPR Students Attend Forum on Agrarian Reforms in

Cuba, Obtain Support for Independence of Island"

• Portions of

this article (set out) revealed that Norman Pietri Castellon

(105-75686) University of Puerto Rico student, in Cuba from

7/3/59 to 7/20/59, attended the Forum on Agrarian Reforms by

Invitation from the Cuban Revolutionary Government.

Pietri stated

that Air Force Chief Diaz Lanz helped to unite people in support

of the revolution; since even the reactionaries

who were opposed

to: the agrarian reforms made manifestations in favor of the

revolution.

105-75086-7 p.12

(154)

• On 7/30/59, William Alexander Morgan (105-70973) stated

that Dominick Bartone was a friend from Toledo, Ohio, who lived

in Miami.

He stated that Bartone attempted to sell a C-74 air-

plane to the CAF at one time, and in order to assist him, he

introduced him to Pedro Luis

Diaz Lanz, who was then head of the

CAF.

This reference indicated that one Dominick, described as

a member of the Mafia, might possibly be Identical with Dominick

Bartone.

105-10913-57-p.3.

₴ 105-80291-7 p. 2:

(37,96%

On 8/5/59, WF 1134-5* advised that Cuban Military Attache,

accredited to act as purchasing agent for the CAF.

that MacDonald was not the purchasing agent but that it was

possible

that MacDonald was so designated by the former

• Chief of the CAF,

Pedro Iuis Diaz Lanz.B2]

1 62-60269-244 encl.

• (19,87)

8.27483(40

-16-

DocId: 32308283 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECREN

The following references in the file captioned "CP, CUBA",

set forth information regarding the activities of Pedro Luis Diaz

Lanz during the approximate period 6/26/59 to 8/23/59, in Cuba.

Diaz Lanz was replaced as Air Force Commander because he was anti-

communist.

The

'Sierra Maestra" newspaper criticized the US for

inviting him to testify before one of its committees. He flea Cuba

and came to the IS and was thereafter condemned by the communists

as a traitor.

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(22,87)

64-200-210-2118 p. 1

-2168 p.2

-2180 p.1,2

"The Houston Post" 7/21/59

-A

"The Worker" 7/26/59

' -A

The

"New. York Daily News" 8/1/59

-A "The Evening Star"

8/23/59

12.537

On 9/8/59, INS, Miami, furnished a copy of an INS

report (set out) concerning an

alleged plot to kidnap or kill

Esteban Ventura Novo (105-75776) •

This report revealed that in

chis connection Amelia Cubria Ramos, sister of Armando Cubria,

Vayor of Havana, had a letter no date which was written by her

sister, Frances, which stated that she should go to Washington

and try to obtain as much information as possible regarding Pedro

Luis Diaz Lanz and that she should relay all of this information

to a person whom she knew so that the data could be sent on to the

OEA (not further described).

This letter instructed her to go to

Miami and continue the plan in accordance with instructions given.

her by Raul Castro.

29575376-10 p. 9

Richard Bowman Taffe, PSI (protect identity) advised that

on 9/15/59,

"Alberto"

Lopez, 1239 SW 5th St., Miami, directed a

letter to Anthony Chao, Concordia 960, Havana, Cuba.

This letter

disclosed that Lopez and others knew

about conversations between

Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz and Frank Fiorini and others who were involved

in a conspiracy. (no further information)

INS

REVIEWED BY PB1/ JFK TASK FORCE

ON 9/Y/97 PBIRT

(continued)

RELEASE IN FUL

RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

1906.

-17-

SEGRET

DocId: 32308283 Page 9

---

## Page 10

C

(continued)

On 10/22/59, Diaz, active in the anti-Castro revolutionary

movement, advised that he had no reason to believe that Napier

was connected with or showed sympathy towards the government of

Cuba and the Dominican Republic, or the political exiles in Miami.

who opposed those governments.

97-3640-0 p.14,17

(24,90)

MM 639-S advised on 10/26/59 that Fernando Coba was

considering sending three or four men to the US in order to

assassinate

"revolutionary"

pilots, the targets being Evelio

Alpizar Perez (105-78969), (Pedro) Diaz Lanz, * and others.

This reference indicated that Coba was a sergeant in the

Cuban police who previously engaged in Cuban revolutionary activities

in Miami.

105-78969-5 p. 6

(8,67)

*Miami

On 10/26/59, Enrique A. Garcia, Jr., (105-58656) advised

he was in contact with ex-Maior Pedro

an American who fought during the recent Cuban revolution, Alan

McDonald.

He stated that McDonald was connected with Diaz Lanz but

recently there was a falling out and McDonald was not, as of the

above-mentioned date, working with Diaz Lanz.

105-58656-94 p.3,4

(29,94)

On 10/26/59, PCI Charles William Hormel,

free lance pilot

in close contact with the Cuban element in Miami (protect identity),

advised that Joseph Manuel Paula, Miami restaurant operator and

member of the July 26 Movement,

stated that Pedro Diaz Lanz, Carlos

Echegoyen, Anthony Zarba (97-3968), and several others (set out)

(continued)

SECRET,

-20-

DocId: 32308283 Page 10

---

## Page 11

to leave Florida and drop leaflets and bombs over Havana.

26-246626-28 p. 3

(22/87)

HAV-23 advised that on 11/30/59, a PSP meeting (64-200-210)

was held in Havana, Cuba. The main speaker was Segundo Quinones,

Barrio Puerto PSP leader. Quinones stated that all PSP members

should be willing to make sacrifices and that it was nobler to be

a martyr than a coward like Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz. Quinones stateo

that Diaz Lanz, with the permission of the US authorities, savagely

bombed Havana from the air.

64-200-210-2351 p.3

(22,87)

On 12/11/59, Manuel Calixto

Rojas Y Diaz (97-3726) at

Miami, Florida, advised that an organization was in the process of

being set up which would be a better organization than the Anti-

Communist League of America, which was dissolved. This new

organization would include Pedro Diaz Lanz as a member.

97-3726-32 encl. p.15

(3,61

Julio Guasp Y Toro, 120 Weeks Road, North Babylon, LI,

NY (protect identity) advised on 12/11/59 that Rolando Masferrer

and his associates were seeking to have Pedro Diaz Lanz, believed

to be at that time affiliated with the White Rose, an anti-Fidel

Castro organization, join the Masferrer forces.

Subject of the file 1s

"Invasion of Cuba to be Headed by

Rolando Masferrer, January, 1960"

2-1573-4 encl. p.4

12,557

-23-

DocId: 32308283

Page 11

---

## Page 12

The Legat, Madrid, advised that on 1/26/60, Rafael Miralles

Bravo, former Press

Attache

of the Cuban Embassy in Madrid during

the Batista regime (protect identity), stated that complete unity

and agreement were reached between Major Pedro Diaz Lanz and Emilio

Nunez Portuondo, former Cuban Ambassador to the UN during the

Batista regime.

They agreed in the event of a successful over-

throw of the Castro government Carlos Marquez Sterling would be

named the Provisional President of Cuba.

This reference indicated that Sterling was an unsuccessful

candidate for President in the elections held in November, 1958,

by the Batista government.

105-81376-8 encl.

(8,68)

PSI Bernard

Holmes Brennan, Miami Beach, Fla., newspaper-

man (protect identity), advised that Alberto Rafael Rafael (105-84115)

and Carlos Sanchez, employee of the Cuban Consulate, Miami, met

three unidentified

Cubans on 1/28/60, at the America Hotel,

Miami.

Sanchez stated the individual returned to Cuba with film of the

1/28/60 ceremony in Bayfront Park, Miami, where Pedro Luis Diaz

Lanz, Castro defectee, made a speech.

Above-mentioned informant stated that Sanchez discussed the

speech to be given at the statue of Jose Marti by Diaz Lanz on 1/28/60,

with the three unidentified Cubans.

105-84115-8 p.1,3

(33,99)

On 1/28/60, PSI Miguel Andres DeLeon Rojas advised that

responsible Cuban exile groups in Mexico City and the US, who supported

Dr. Emilio Nunez Portuondo, were convinced that General Jose Eleuterio

Pedraza Cabrera, who commanded a group of military exiles in the

Dominican Republic, would not be a wise selection as the military

leader of the attempt to overthrow the Castro government.

These

Cuban exile groups believed that Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz would be a

much better military leader.

20920632-127 D.5

-27-

ARET,

DocId: 32308283 Page 12

---

## Page 13

Carlos Marquez Sterling, former PSI (protect identity)

(109-321) advised on 1/29/60 that Rafael Diaz Balart of the La

Rosa Blanca group and the group headed by Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz in

Miami were the only two revolutionary groups which had not yet

agreed on unification.

Sterling stated that Balart was a former

member of the

• House of Representatives under Batista and Diaz Lanz

was former Chief of the CAF under Fidel Castro, both of whom were

opposed to the present government of Castro.

109-321-6 p.4

(41,106)

The State Department furnished a copy of an Operations

Memorandum from the American Embassy in Mexico dated 10/22/68,

regarding Visa Applicants-Cuba (105-7-210).

This memorandum

revealed that Manuel Fernandez Turro, a resident of Mexico who was

born in Havana, Cuba, stated that his first detention by the

Castro Government was in February, 1960.

He returned from Miami

where he was working, to contact Pedro

• Luis Diaz Lanz, an active

anti-Castro agent.

He was arrested upon his return to Cuba but was

released after several days of interrogation.

105-7-210-4921 encl. p.2

129,94

The following references in the main files of the

Individuals set out below set forth information which revealed

that these individuals were suspected of being Cuban intelligence

agents and Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz, Miami, advised on 12/15/59 and

2/2/60 that they were unknown to him and that he had no information

concerning them.

TNDIVIDITAL

REFERENCE

Luis Miguel Bulnes Menendez

97-3992-3 p.4

SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

(25,527

Miguel Merino

97-3994-3 p.5

(26,927

REVIEWED EX JI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON 1/6/98 NINETE

I RELEASE IN FULL

• RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

-28-

DocId: 32308283 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Emil E. Behre; Laurel Lane, Black Mountain, NC, advised

that

In late Fall 1959,

Dan McMahon asked him if he would like to

make

a lot of money.

McMahon contacted him again in April 1960,

in Miami and stated

he wanted him to meet someone in the home of

Pedro Luis Diaz.

Behre went to the residence of Lanz, who was

absent, and met

an individual named Fiorini, described by Behre

as a soldier of fortune for Castro.

Te also met Bill Gash and a

third unknown individual at this residence but nothing materialized

and he became disgusted and left.

On April 12 or 13, 1960, McMahon

again contacted Behre and stated that he had disassociated

himself

from Lanz and Fiorini.

105-88521-18 p.11,12

(19)

The 4/15/60 issue of the "Miami Herald"

contained an

article captioned

"Il Bodyguards for Ex-American"

revealed that Commandante W11l1am A. Morgan (105-70973) was

This article

living

in Havana, Cuba and was hölding the highest rank in Fidel

Castro's rebel army.

Morgan on interview stated that a sore point

with Cubans was the

fact that hated Batista henchmen l1ke Rolando

Masferrer and Esteban Ventura were permitted to live in Miami.

The commandante also took a blast at Castro's air force chief

who defected, Major Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz.

He stated that he knew

Diaz Lanz well and that he was incompetent.

105-70973-66 p.12

(29,947

MM 799-S advised that on 4/19/60, an individual known

nly as L'Toto"Sbut who was apparently /performing intellirenc

Investigations for Carlos Sanchez (105-83259), informed Sanchez S

that he would attempt to take photographs of unidentified persons

living in a

"pink house" in Miami, and that he wanted to try to

photograph Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz [RJ

photographs of Diaz Lanz. [J

105-83259-14 p. 16

to Me so no p. Tyle.

17566)

para.

103-75528-397 02 7 8e1

-34-

DooId:32308283 Page 14

---

## Page 15

Miami Office advised on 4/28/60 that Gilbert Barreras

(134-9101) stated he was approached by a group of Cuban exiles

who wanted him to teach them combat training and self-defense

and Barreras planned to meet with them during April, 1960.

These

during the Batista regime.

They included Jose Villa Lobos who

was in

constant contact with Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz. 4

134-9101-2 p.34

(47,112)

PSI Gilbert Barreras (protect identity) advised on

4/26/60 that Jose Villalobos, 130 Northwest 24th Court, Miami,

former Mayor of Guanabacoa, Cuba, was in contact with Rolando

Masferrer (100-344127) and

expressed a desire to have Masferrer

meet with Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz.

As of 5/3/60, above-mentioned Informant advised that

Villalobos was unsuccessful in his endeavor to unite Diaz Lanz'

group with Masferrer's group in Miami, although Masferrer was

agreeable to meet with Diaz Lanz.

On 5/12/60, Diaz Lanz stated that Masferrer was associated

with 28 unnamed

supporters who were willing to fight against the

Castro Government in Cuba at the request of Masferrer.

100-344127-45 p.6,9

(28,93)

On 5/5/60, Jorge Rafael Costas Y. Rodriguez (105-82035)

advised that he was

not acquainted with Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz.

He stated he once talked to Diaz Lanz on the telephone at Miami,

in an effort to locate a friend of his, whom he declined to identify.

He was never involved in any plot or activity directed against Diaz

nas never in

Lanz, or anyone connected with Diaz Lanz.

Miami Office advised

(protect Identity) atated one "CosE 75/60 that PSI Ricardo Madan Rivas

was reported to be a Cuban G-2

agent who was planning unknown action against Diaz Lanz.

105-82035-17 p.B,2,22

(32,97)

SI to para. 2

97-4072-9 p.29

(262,91)

-35-

ALONEL

DocId: 32308283 Page 15

---

## Page 16

On 5/27/60, Fabio Freyre Aguilera (97-3905), Palm

Beach, Fla., advised during interview

in connection with another

matter that

he was no longer

associated with Cuban revolutionists

and had no

contact with several individuals (set out) including

Pedro Diaz Lanz.

He explained that he did not know and had never

met Lanz.

MM 639-S advised (no date) that the above-mentioned

Diaz Lanz was former Chief of the Cuban FAR.

91-3902-1 p.2,3

(4,62)

MM 639-S advised on 5/2/60 that Pedro Diaz Lanz and

Anselmo Allegro, former Cuban Prime Minister, met at the Aliegro

residence '(no address or date given) and discussed Manuel Calixto

Rojas Diaz (97-3726).

At this meeting, Diaz Lanz defended the

reputation of Rojas while Aliegro indicated that he did not think

much of him.

on 5/28/60, Manuel J. Diaz, 2151 Southwest 21st Terrace,

Miami, advised that he was formerly employed at the Cubana Air-

lines

ticket office at Miami International Airport. He stated

that he was questioned by the Department of Investigations of the

Revolutionary Army and on the basis of the questioning it was

obvious that he was being accused of making contacts with Diaz

Lanz and Rojas in Miami.

97-3726-50 p.11,19

(3,61}

known only as

MM 639-S advised that an agent of Fernando Fuentos Coba,

John"

arrived in Miami on 5/30/60 and that he

planned to entice Evelio Alpizar Perez (105-78969) to Cuba or

Mexico by trickery.

Informant stated that Coba wanted Alpizar more

than Pedro Diaz Lanz, residing at that time in exile, in cuba.

105-78969-15 p.4

(8/67)

-35-

nigil.

DocId: 32308283

Page 16

---

## Page 17

(continued)

INDIVIDUAL

REFERENCE

David Kass

Harry Kernes

Shirley Rothkrug

Hannah Sigel

100-433659-1 encl. p.1

100-169135-51 p.3

100-335205-26 p.3

100-182414-38 encl. p.l

-39 p. 6

Nathan Vann

100-434748-2 p.2

Anita Parkhurst Willcox

100-390292-122 encl. p.1

-127 p. 8

SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

(6,65%

15864)

16,647

(5,64

(5,64

16/657

(6/64

16,64

On 7/27/60, Pedro Diaz Lanz, Miami, advised, in connection

with the lInidad de las Fuerzas Armadas de Cuba (105-91729), of an

effort to unite former military and police officers but he had no

firsthand knowledge of this effort and no invitation to join. He

understood the effort might have to do with the fact that many of the

individuals involved were unable to become part of the FRD, a unity

of several anti-Castro groups, and were forming this organization

•in order to be in a position to bargain with the FRD..

105-91729-1 p.5

(17,77)

On 4/25/60, RCMP (protect identity) advised that R.J. Norris,

Miami, a taxi driver, was reported to be associated with several

individuals in a scheme to form a military expedition to fight

communism in Latin America.

This organization was alleged to have

a front known as the Inter-America Business Corporation.

D.F.

Lance was ranked as

first lieutenant. [S 5 major in this organization and Norris was a

(continued)

-39-

105-72630-142

DocId: 32308283 Page 17

---

## Page 18

(continued)

On 8/23/60, MacAulay stated that he returned to Miami

on 7/24/60, from California and contacted Diaz who indicated that

he was not interested in any immediate action against Cuba.

Frank

Fiorini, former member of the Cuban FAR, tried to talk Diaz into

allowing Fiorini to take fifty men and attack Cuba.

MacAulay stated

that ne was not associated with these two individuals, and had no

further contact with them J(4)

2-1612-4

• p.2 encl. p.2

(27,86%

MM 639-S advised on 8/29/60 that Morton Adler of Adler

Construction Company, Hialeah, Fla., was in contact with Rolando

Masferrer (2-1622) and Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz (no date) currently

residing at Miami in exile.

Adler planned to back a counter-

revolutionary group and Masferrer was seeking his help.

2-1622-38 p.17

(21887,

(5)

NY 2494-S* advised that Jose Maria De Poo (105-99025|S)

contacted(the Cuban Consul Generalsin NYC, Manolo Guillot and stateda

that on 9/10/60 he attended a function at the Cuba Cubana Inter-

americana where he met Dr. Anna Maria Perera, phonetic), who was

to be counter-revolutionaries and he became incensed about their

attendance and left the function. X1

105-99025-3 p. JX14

L13737

The following references in the file captioned "Committee

of Industrial Commission

, set forth information regarding the anti-

Castro activities of Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz during the period 5/9/60

to approximately 9/14/60, in Miami.

The members of this Commission

were to donate financial

support to Diaz Lanz in his efforts to

(continued)

-41-

DocId: 32308283 Page 18

---

## Page 19

This reference revealed that the Sociedad Ayuda Cubana

Anticomunista, aka Society for the Aid of Anti-Communist Cubana

(105-90347) sponsored rallies at the Embassy Auditorium, Los

Angeles, Calif., on 9/25/60, where Pedro Diaz Lanz spoke. He was

scheduled to speak at a press conference at the Los Angeles Press

Club on 9/23/60.

105-90347-4 p.1,6,7,8,10

(11,71

On 12/2/60, Miguel Antonio Sanchez Ramos (97-4351)

advised that on or about the end of March or early April, 1957,

he met Carlos Rodriguez at the Jaragua Hotel in Ciudad Trujillo.

He stated that he had since heard that Rodriguez was the head of the

Cienfuegos anti-Castro group in New York.

About two months ago

he saw a picture of Rodriguez with Major

• Pedro Diaz Lanz in the

Dominican newspaper

, "El Caribe"

97-4351-28 p.18

(5,63)

Camilo Padreda Vazquez, former member of the Cuban

Bureau for the Repression of communist Activities, (protect identity)

advised on 10/14/00 that Luis Robaina Piedra, a former General in

the Cuban Army during the Batista regime, Miami, stated the FRD

(105-87912) within the near future would announce the formation of

a provisional government in exile and would name several individuals

(set out) to positions of that government.

Among those named was

Pedro Diaz Lanz as Chief of the Air Force.

105-87912-85 encl.

(10,70

Dr. Tirso Del Junco, Los Angeles, Calif., head of the

• "Society to Aid Cuban

, advised that in March, 1960, when he was in Miami,

Rene Miguel Valdes (97-3805) swore he was anti-Castro and working with

(Pedro) Diaz Lanz but Diaz Lanz stated he did not know Valdes. Del

Junco stated he therefore did not trust Valdes.

2. 2a not

(continued)

-43-

DocId:32308283 Page 19

---

## Page 20

ait.

(continued)

on 10/12/60, Reginald E. Carles, Los Angeles, stated that a

Mr. Dickery or Tyckery of the

"People's World" (PW), called him and askea

Ior help in preparing a case against the Diaz Lanz Group.

He Indicated

he received instructions from the San Francisco Office of the Pw that they

wanted more evidence in order to prepare either a legal case or run a series

of exposes on the "un-Constitutionality of the Diaz Lanz Anti-Castro

Recruitment" in the US.

Del Junco further stated that on 10/16/60, a man by the name of

(First name unknown, tykiri, who identifled himself"

an editor of a

paper, the

, called him and requested information regarding Diaz

Lanz (former head of the Cuban Air Force under Castro who spoke at a

public meeting held in Los Angeles on 9/25/60) or any anti-Castro organi-

zation recruiting in the US. Del Junco stated he was not interested in

recruiting anyone to fight in Cuba.

97-3005-47 p: 20-23

(4,62,

CSNY 2822-S, who was in Miami, advised on 10/18/60 that

the FRD (105-87912) desired to bring groups headed by Colonel (FNU)

Barquin, Pedro Diaz Lanz, and (FNU) Diaz, into the Front.

105-87912-87 encl. p.1

(10,70

The Washington Capital News Service, datelined Miami, 10/26/60,

revealed that Dr. Jose Miro Cardona (105-84334), former Cuban Prime

Minister and Diplomat, was named to head a committee working toward unity

of revolutionary groups opposed to Premier Castro.

He was selected

at a

meeting attended by about 40 persons including Major Pedro Diaz Lanz.

105-84334-A Washington Capital

(20/69)

News Service 10/26/60

on 7/27/60, Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz, Miami, advised that he was

acquainted with Antonio G. Mendoza and Father Eduardo Aguirre, both In

Cuba and the US.

He stated that these two individuals set up the Cuban

Liberty Corporation (CLC) (105-89711) to handle funds for his organization,

the CCC.

The original purpose of this Corporation was

to handle moneys

which could be used in assisting Cuban exiles in economic difficulty

and also to publish propaganda against communism.

(continued)

-44-

DocId: 32308283 Page 20

---

## Page 21

(continued)

on 10/27/60, Antonio Gonzalez Mendoza Kindelan, 1365

with Rafael Lorie, a member of

Castro organization under the direction of Diaz Lanz.

He stated

he worked with Diaz Lanz in an endeavor to transfer the by-laws

of the CLC to the Alianza.

105-89711-4 p. 2,5

(35,100)

This reference revealed around 11/2/60 that a group from

NYC planned to go to a camp in Miami, and among those in the group

were members of Accion Cubana Institucionalista (ACI) (97-3983).

The ACI and other anti-Castro groups met with the purpose of uniting

anti-Castro forces. Pedro Diaz Lanz was affiliated with Dr. Luis

Conte Aguero, leader of the anti-Communist Front, an anti-Castro

organization.

He met with Captain Chinea who was a representative

of the anti-Castro group headed by Conte. These organizations were

to coordinate their operations with Diaz Lanz.

97-3983-28 p.2-5

(4,62)

On 11/7/60, Dr. Syla Cuervo, 3400 SW 6th Street, Miami,

advised that he had known Victor Manuel Paneque (105-92195) since

he was the leader. of the underground movement in Havana prior to

the Castro government taking control.

He stated that Paneque sought

exile in the IIS and aid from Pedro Diaz Lanz, former Chief of the

FAR.

105-92195-5 p.14

(12/77)

NY 2865-S advised on 11/7/60 that a meeting took place

at the home of First Name Winknown

Those present discussed the possibility of

Martine west Be St No.

weeks to a hidden camp in Florida where there was

equipment and arms

(continued)

-45-

DocId: 32308283

Page 21

---

## Page 22

On 1/8/61, an article appeared in the "Chicago Sun-Times"

newspaper, Chicago,

Illinois, concerning Major Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz,

a one-time commander of the Castro Air Force in Cuba.

Lanz reportedly

broke with Castro when he learned that Castro

was planning to establish

a Russian system of dictatorship in Cuba.

This article was displayed

to Roberto Alberto Ramos (65-66226) who recalled meeting Lanz several

times in Havana in approximately 1956.

He stated Lanz was a member

of the Circulo Militar, a social club on the Mariano Beach, Havana,

where he frequently visited. At that time, Lanz was a pilot in the

CAF and Ramos had no contact with him except in a social capacity.

65-66226-81 p.10

(23,88)

On 1/9/61, James Buchanan, reported for the "Hollywood

Sun-Tattler!!

, a newspaper published

in Hollywood, Fla., advised

that he attended a CCC meeting (no date) In Miami at which Pedro

Luis Diaz Lanz was present and Frank Fiorini, assistant of Diaz Lanz,

spoke.

It was noted that MM 639-S was Involved in Cuban revolutionary

activities for three years, was a close associate of Fiorini and

was in periodic contact with Diaz Lanz.

Informant advised on 1/11/61

that Diaz Lanz was presently a FRD member and was preparing to fly to

Central America to make speeches and rallies aimed against communism

and the Castro Government of Cuba.

He stated that Diaz Lanz, former

head of the CCC, associated with Forini, and the CCC existed until

about July 1960, when Diaz Lanz discontinued 1t and formed the AL,

which never got going and discontinued.

Thereafter Diaz Lanz joined

the FRD and was still in that organization. Although Diaz Lanz and

Fiorini were still friendly, they were not going together and engaged

in different pursuits.

105-09923-126 encl. p.2-4

(35p100)

Paul Harol Odez advised that he was approached by Manuel

Alfonso Odio Y Rodriguez (105-96639) on 2/24/61 and requested to

participate in kidnapping Pedro Diaz Lanz and Michel Yabur.

Odez

stated that Odio was a Cuban Intelligence Agent and Yabur was a

prominent anti-Castro Cuban in Miami.

105-96639-4 p. B, 1,2

(12)

Correlator's Note: According to serial 8 of above-

mentioned file, Odio denied any involvement or knowledge

of the alleged plot to kidnap Diaz Lanz and Yabur.

-48-

DocId: 32308283 Page 22

---

## Page 23

on 3/6/61, Max Edgardo Lesnick (105-64869), Miami, advised

that Captain Rafael

R. Huguet Del Valle was very close to Pedro Diaz

Lanz who resided, at that time, in the Us. He stated that Diaz

Lanz trusted Huguet completely.

Huguet was also acquainted with

Eloy. Gutierrez Menoyo, and was present at a meeting held by Diaz Lanz

and Menoyo in the US in 1959.

20368108-6 p.22

Ysidro Alvarez, PST (protect identity) advised on 3/13/61

that Gustavo Marin (105-125293) contacted him within the past couple

of days in an effort to secure his assistance in organizing a meeting

of a new anti-Castro organization of Cubans at Union City, NJ, called

Informant stated he did not know Marin and as far as

he knew Marin was not from Union City. Marin Indicated that he would

have Dr. Antonio De Varona of the FRD, the leading anti-Castro organization

and Pedro Diaz Lanz, former head of the CAF, present at this meeting.

Informant further stated he doubted that Marin would be successful

in having these

two individuals present.

105-125293-6 p.6

(13,74

on 3/14/61, Constantine N. Kangles (97-3606), Chicago,

furnished a copy of a letter (set out verbatim). This letter

(no date) was addressed to Comandante Raul Castro, Minister of Defense,

Defense Ministry, Havana, Cuba, and was signed

"Very truly yours,

Constantine N.

Kangles

In this letter, Kangles stated that Jim

Gentry urged him to write to Castro and inform him of the legal

problems that faced Gentry in the US. According to this letter,

Gentry has a long-standing feud with

• Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz and he

and Lanz were in fact bitter enemies. Gentry felt Lanz invented

or instigated the charges against him for reasons of personal

revenge. (not further explained)

97-3606-39 encl.

(24,90)

on 3/17/61, Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz* advised that he did

not know an individual named Joaquin Maria Perez (105-93439).

105-93439-4 p.2

(36,101)

*Miami

-49-

(continued)

DocId: 32308283 Page 23

---

## Page 24

The following references in the file captioned "Movimiento

Recuperacion Revolucionario de Cuba"

, set forth information regarding

the activities of Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz, a leader of that organization

in Miami, during the period 1/28/62 to

4/15/62. He spoke at a meeting

of the MRRC in Tampa, Fla.,

and resigned from that organization when

he and several other

cubans were told to return to Miami by the US

Coast Guard when they were stopped in a boat which was on its way

to Cuba. This expedition was not in accordance with the MRRC.

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

105-108646-3 p.1,3

(12,37,72/102)

-4 p.1,2 encl. p.1-4

(37,102)

-5 p. 1-3,5-7,11

-7 p.1

(12572)

CIA advised that Louis Jubel (134-9780) on 4/20/62 arrived

in Miami and met with several personalities (set out) of the

Cuban exile colony including Pedro Diaz Lanz, in a Miami Beach hotel.

During the meeting Jubel aiscussed plans for the liberation of Cuba

and promised to reveal them to his numerous contacts among high

officials of the State Department and the Defense Department D

134-9780-3 p.2,3

(16,82)

The following references on Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz appear

in the main file of Frank Anthony Sturgis. These references set

forth the anti-Castro activities and close association of these two

individuals in Cuba, Mexico and the US, during the period 10/27/58

to 7/5/62.

They were arrested when they were discovered endeavoring

to send arms to the rebels of Fidel Castro Ruz in Cuba.

They worked

together planning an invasion of

Cuba. Sturgis was an officer in

the cuban Revolutionary Air Force when it was headed by diaz.

acted as pilot and Sturgis co-pilot in a leaflet-dropping mission over

Havana on 10/21/59. The plane used in this connection was owned by

Sturgis.

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

2-1499-11

-12 p.1,2

-16 p.1-3

-17 p.2

-21 p. 2,3

(286X

(57,86)

(continued)

-55 SECRET,

DocId: 32308283

Page 24

---

## Page 25

MM 635-S advised that on 3/27/63, Marcos Diaz Lanz,

who, together with his brother, Pedro Diaz Lanz, was in the process

of planning a separate hit and

run raid against

cuba, stateo

chat Ramon Font was chief of the raiding party that left Miami

and from there

launched their attack in the vicinity of the northern coast

105-117222-48 p.2

(12,73%

ST 105-117222-46 p.2

(22/737

*Bahama Tslands

The "Washington Daily News"

, dated 4/1/63, carried an

article captioned "War Declared on Ships in Cuba" datelined at

Miami, which indicated that spokesmen for a new Cuban underground

organization, the Freedom Fighter Commandoes (105-119902), issued

declaration of war on all communist ships that enter or leave

communist Cuba"

despite IS efforts to halt anti-Castro raids blamed

on this country..

Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz denounced the IS

action as

"coexistence with Castro"

105-119902-1 encl. p.2

(17,83

DI. Jose Morell Romero, Miami, President of the Cuban

Committee of

Liberation (105-123568), advised that this unity

organization was composed of personalities, rather than of organizations.

He furnished a copy (set out) of the manifesto dated 5/20/63 which

was signed by more than one hundred individuals including Pedro Luis

105-123568-1 p.8-10

(3801037

On 9/17/63, Donald A. Miller, 1601 SW 88th Avenue, Miami,

Fla., advised that the Antonio Maceo Battalion (2-1813) was no

longer utilizing the services of Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz as an instructor

for the Battalion.

2-1013-4 encl. p.7

(22,87)

-58-

DocId: 32308283 Page 25

---

## Page 26

Cloudsi

On 12/15/63, MM 847-S advised that Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz,

who was a

Cuban aircraft pilot in charge of the Cuban FAR in early

1959, was still acquainted with the movements and contacts of Jose

Manuel Insua

Rodriguez (105-107027). Diaz had telephone number

CA 6-3142, In Miami.

105-107027-36 p.19

(37,102)

In connection with the Travel of President in the United

States and Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (62-109119), on 1/9/64,

the Miami Office furnished a list of security subjects including

Pedro Luis Oscar Diaz Lanz.

A letterhead memorandum on Diaz Lanz

was disseminated to the Secret Service as a result of this review.

62-109119=136 p.4

(48,113,

On 2/6/64, Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz, 120 Southwest 70th Avenue,

Miami, advised that he had a fairly wideknowledge of anti-Castro

activities in the Miami

area, but was not with and had no knowledge

of the existence of any Secret Army of Miami, or any organization

known as the Organizacion Ejercito Secreto Anticomunista

(105-116172).

105-X16172-18 p.13

(37,102)

MM 635-S advised on 3/18/64 that he had recently heard

"rom Pedro Diaz Lanz that the Junta Revolucionaria, the Movimientc

le Recuperacion Revolucionario, the Second National Front of

Escambray (105-112098), the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil,

and the group of Carlos Prio Socarras had united and were preparing

an expedition to be sent to cuba within the next few months.

105-112098-453 p.10,11

(12,72)

On 3/25/64, Haviv Schieber,

316 West 94th St., NYC, Secretary

of the Anti-American

International (100-434086) advised that

January, 1961, he participated in many anti-communist groups, attended

rallies, and spoke wherever he

was invited. He also participated

(continued)

-61-

DERST

DocId: 32308283 Page 26

---

## Page 27

(continued)

that they might overthrow the Castro government. Diaz Lanz felt

this was a trap and refused to return to cuba.

Gutierrez, Diaz Lanz,

and Rafael Ramon Huguet Del Valle, ex-Captain and Paymaster of the

FAR, were in contact on numerous occasions and also met with other

individuals to discuss the communist infiltration of the air force

and other branches of the Cuban Government. Gutierrez decided not

During an interview Diaz

Lanz felt certain that Gutierrez was sympathetic toward the communist

cause and was a "Castroite"

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

105-82298-56 p.2-4

-72 p. 1-3,7,10, 12-17,25

(Signed

statement p.13-16)

-7б р. 1,4,12-18,21-26

-95 encl. p.7,8

-113 encl. p.10,26,28

-129 p.1B, 20,21,32,33, 49,51,72

-130 р. 10;11,29,45,47

-169 encl.

105-82371-10 encl. p.1

8,68)

8,52,68,97/

1832197Y

9,68)

9,32,68,971

(96809

19,60%

MM 492-S advised on 6/9/65 that Cuban propaganda had,

as of above date, the unmistakable brand of the communist line.

That when Major Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz, Fidel Castro's first Chief

and flew from exile in the US

to drop leaflets on Havana in October, 1959, the Cuban anti-aircraft

batteries at the La Cabana Fortress,

on orders of Castro, opened

fire on the plane of Diaz Lanz.

The shells fell, killing and wounding

forty-seven persons. In a four-hour speech,

Castro accused the

, "the Imperialist enemy to the north"

people in a defenseless cuba.

imperialists"

Subject of the flle 1s "DOMSIT"

109712-211-5357 encl. p.

(47, 106)

-64-

SPRET

DocId: 32308283

Page 27

---

## Page 28

MM 635-S advised on 10/31/68 that Manuel Felipe Rivero

Diaz (97-4041) understood that Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz, Miami, was interested

in making a trip to Cuba to sink a Russian ship. Rivero stated

that the idea was good but sinking a Russian ship would cause

problems for Cuban exiles in the US and that a Cuban ship should

be sunk.

Rivero stated further that if Diaz could obtain a launch

and the

weapons, he would supply the men.

Above-mentioned informant advised that Diaz was contacted

and stated that Rivero was untrustworthy and refused to

have any

contact or negotiations with him.

97-4041-48 encl. p.2,3

(26,91)

***

REFERENCES NOT INCLUDED IN THIS SUMMARY

The following references on Pedro Diaz Lanz, Pedro L. Diaz

Lanz, Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz, Pedro Diaz, Pedro Luis Diaz, Luis Diaz,

Oscar Diaz,

and One Lanz located in files maintained in the Special

File

Room of the Records Branch,

Files and Communications Division

were not reviewed, and it is not known whether they are identical

with the subject of this summary:

REFERENCE

(65-67951-854115

+64-330-210-2608

64-330-210-1415

64-330-211-1620

[S)

64-300-213-325

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

13/60)

117%

(23,88)

(23)

(23%

(continued)

-72-

DocId: 32308283 Page 28

---

## Page 29

(continued)

REFERENCE

97-4149-10

-14

-26

-949

{64-330-210-4099] (S)

105-67845-27240-

2739 734

(64-330-210-1596](s)

66-8603-1-34-478

64-330-210-4911

64-330-210-2-20

64-330-240-15-47

64-330-240-95-14

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(27,92)

27,92

27.92

(27,92)

(58)

661

66)

(118)

(119)

(132)

(153)

(158)

(158)

The following references contain information of an

administrative nature.

There is no activity of Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz

involved.

REFERENCE

64-4461-975

64-45571-3

105-115227-239

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(23,88)

(23,88%

(37/1027

See the search slip filed behind file for other references

on this subject which contain the same information (SI) that is set

out in the main file.

Although the information is the same it may have

been received from different sources.

-73-

DocId: 32308283

Page 29

---

