# docid-32328890

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90082-10022

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 105-82904-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/05/1960

15

ANTONIO VALLE

SOCRATES ALVAREZ BARRIOS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/18/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32328890

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

MM 105-2010

CAN CONFIDENTE

The original 302 for the interview of the subject

is filed in file 100-10838, since subject was interviewed

in connection with that subject matter.

INFORMANTS

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION

Instant report, page 1, 9

IDENTITY

MM I-1 is ANTONY FARINAS,

3911 Northwest 12th Street,

Miami, an American with

numerous contacts among

Cubans in Miami, former

President July 26 Club,

Miami February - August,

1959, Business Agent

Local 255, Hotel Workers

Union, currently under

consideration for development

as PSI, Miami, and acquainted

with the subject, contacted

1/12/60 and 3/24/60.

MM T-2 is MM 635-S, contacted 134-211-Sub A-162

1/13/60.

MM T-3 is MM 639-S, contacted

Instant report, page 2

1/14/60.

MM T-4 is RICARDO MADAN

•RIVAS, 224. Lenape Drive,

Miami

Springs, Florida,

Cuban businessman residing

Miami, acquainted with

the subject, has numerous

contacts among Cubans in Miami

area, former member Authentic Party

of ex-Cuban President CARLOS PRIO and

under consideration for development

as PSI, Miami.

1/18/60

3/24/60

134-379- Sub A-4

Instant report, Page 8

CONEIDENTIAL

- COVER PAGE

18065-10053

DocId: 32328890

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTI

MM 105-2010

IDENTITY

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION

103-1870-55

MM T-5 is FRANK PEREZAV

PEREZ, 1124 Northwest

13th Terrace, ex-

Cuban official and

businessman claiming

numerous acquaintances

among Cubans in the

Miami area, contacted

9/11/59

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed in this report and "T"' symbols have

been utilized only in those instances where identity must

be concealed.

Other individuals contacted who were unable

to furnish information concerning the subject were:

MARIANO FAGET, 75 Southwest 32nd Court Road,

Miami, former head of BRAC, former MM-CS-492-S,

currently under consideration for development

as PS1, contacted 12/28/59. (A) (U)

ROY KATON, owner, Tamiami Gun Shop, Miami,

formerly under consideration for development

as PCI, Miami, contacted 1/12/60, by

SA WILLIAM P. KELLY.

DAGOBERTO DARIAS, 869 Southwest 6th St., Miami,

former Director General of supplies in

BATISTA Government; has numerous contacts among

Cubans in Miami.

-D*-

- COVER PAGE •

129171499

Au)

2P13-1003

DocId: 32328890

Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-2010

CONTIDENTIAL

[on January 13, 1960, MN T-2, a Cuban offietal, * (K)

advised that to the best of his knowledge SOCRATES ALVAREZ

is not known as a Cuban agent or employee.

On January 14, 1960, MM T-3, an American with

numerous contacts among the Cubans in the Miami area, x C,

advised that he knows who SOCRATES ALVAREZ is, and

that ALVAREZ was very pro-CASTRO during 1958, and

belonged to the July 26 Club of Miami, which he said

was an organization of individuals sympathetic to the

revolutionary cause of now Prime Minister FIDEL CASTRO.( ?

MM I-3 said that he knew of no current

activities on the part of ALVAREZ.

(# on January 18, 1960, MM I-4, a Cuban businessman

residing in Miami with numerous contacts among both

pro and anti-CASTRO Cubans, advised that he had no

information which would indicate that SOCRATES ALVAREZ

Is curfently active on behalf of the Cuban Government.

MM 1-4 said that SOCRATES ALVAREZ was a Sergeant in

the Cuban Army for a number of years and was considered

as a "PRIO man"

, that is, and individual who worked

for and supported CARLOS PRIO, the former Cuban President

who was deposed by FULGENCIO BATISTA, whose government,

in turn, was overthrown by the current Cuban Government

of FIDEL

CASTRO. "

definitely anti-BATISTA, and was very pro-CASTRO

during the active days of the Cuban revolution against

BATISTA, but as far as informant knows, he has not been

active

in anything on behalf of the Cuban Government

during 1960.

-2.

CONTAS

DocId: 32328890

Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 105-2010

CONF

JESUS FERMIN GONZALEZ Y CARIAS, 2337 Northwest

95th Terrace, advised SAS WILLIAM P. KELLY and THOMAS H.

ERRION on February 9, 1960, that according to unconfirmed

information which he had received from acquaintances

in Cuba prior to October, 1959, SOCRATES ALVAREZ is

an agent of FIDEL CASTRO who operated through CASTRO's

Secretary, JUAN ORIA.

GONZALEZ described himself as an associate

of ex-Cuban President CARLOS PRIO, and stated that he,

GONZALEZ, is known by the nickname of "EL EXTRANQ"

(The Stranger).'

On February 17, 1960, Mr. FRED TART, Manager

of the Green Mansions Hotel, 777 Curtiss Parkway,

A Miami, Florida, advised that an examination of his

records under the names of ABELARDO COLOME IBARRA

and ANTONIO CUESTA VALDES for the period June and

July, 1959,

failed to reflect any information concerning

anyone with those names.

vith regara to the above records, te shouldlu

be noted that on September 11, 1959, MM T-5,

a formerl

Cuban official and businessman with

numerous contacts

among cubans in Miami, said that on approximately

July 15, 1959, ABELARDO/COLOME

IBARRA, then Chief of

Investigations of the Cuban Department of Investigations

of the Revolutionary Army (DIER), came

to Miami and /N 1464

stayed at the El Comodoro Hotel, 33 Southwest 2nd

Avenue, Miami, and the purpose of this trip was to meet

assistant to COLOME, preceded COLOME by two days to

Miami, and telephoned and made sure that the men to

meet COLOME would be available. According to informant,

when COLOME arrived, the men were called to meet him.

-30

FLA

CONF

DocId: 32328890

Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 105-2010

CONFIDENT

Informant stated that it was possible that one

of the two individuals in question might have used that

name to register. *u)

M To., on March 24, 1960, stated that he

had last seen ALVAREZ, with whom he is acquainted,

about a year ago. He stated that as best he could

recall, ALVAREZ never worked for the Hotel Workers Union,

but did work as a bus boy in one or two hotels several

years ago in the Miami Beach area, and was used as a

union organizer during strike periods by the union.

Informant said that he had no information from

other sources that SOCRATES ALVAREZwaS an agent of the

Cuban Government, but he recalled that on one occasion

at a meeting of the July 26 Club of Miami, which was a

private meeting held at a location on 9th Avenue between

attended by from fifteen to twenty men, ALVAREZ

remarked that he was a registered agent for CASTRO.

MM I-1 stated

that this meeting was held from

fifteen to twenty days after February 11, 1959, or in

the last week of February, as best he can recall.

Informant stated that at the meeting SOCRATES

exhibited a plastic covered card or document of some sort

and stated that he was "a registered agent for CASTRO",

and said that he was "registered with the American

Government".

Informant said that this card appeared to be

a small identification card in a sealed, plastic case,

which identified ALVAREZ as an agent for CASTRO; however

informant stated that he cannot recall the exact wording

-9=

CONFIDENT

DocId: 32328890

Page 6

---

