# docid-32305312

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10287-10442

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-328

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/16/1967

• PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, OBA, ASSOC, PROPOSED AIR RAID, SHIPPING

TRADING WITH CUBA, ARREST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC MESSAGE RELAY, NOTE

Docid: 32305312

Page 1

25

---

## Page 2

TELETYPE UNIT

ENCODED MESSAGE

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. D«Inach

Mr. Casper --

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. F. It

3r. Gale.

Mr. R son

NR 00005-0000

5- 08

PM URGENT 1/16/67 SHR

IO DIRECTOR 97-4474

ENCODED 3111/95 51468 did GAT

FROM MIAMI 105-2855

3 P

ALL TNSCIMATION CONTAINEI

Tele, Ronm

Miss Hisimug -

Miss Gandy

HERFIN * UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 5|15184 BISPUSJA/DMS

242,457

NOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR).

15 - CUBAS NEUTRALITY MATTERS.

ORLANDO/BOSCH AVILA, A MEDICAL DOCTOR, IS THE HEAD OF MOVIMIENTO

INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR), A CUBAN EXILE ANT:

Sui

CASTRO ORGANIZATION IN MIAMI. FI, Y .%.

MR. VALLACE DO SHANLEY, AGOT. US CUSTÓNS AGENT IN CHARGE,

MIAMI, ON JAN. SIXTEENTH, ADVISED AS FOLLOWS!

u.s.

AT ABOUT ELEVEN PM ON JAN. FIFTEENTH ES CUSTOMS AGENTS ARRESTED

ARTHUR ANDREWERTITE, MARCOSTRODRIGUEZ,RAMOS, BARBARA/BALAN GARCIA,

AND CONFISCATED THREE ONE HUNDRES !

POUND BOMBS, THREE ONE GALLON CANNIS-

TERS OF NAPALM, AND SOME SMALL ARMS. THE ARRESTS AND SEIZURES WERE

MADE AFTER THE BOMBS AND NAPALM HAD BEEN LOADED INTO Ä

PEPER APACHE AIRPLANE EARLHE REGISTHATION NO MES SERO DE FIVE S.

LAST LINE VORD ONE IS PIPENT-AA5*IPER

MI JAN Q§ 1967

EL APPROX

TET ETYPE TO;

COPIES TO. LCNT/A

7 /STATE/DIA/CIA/ACSI/

BY ROUTING SLIP FOR INFO

END PAGE ONZATE 1(16/62 BY VHN

UNAN FORCE

ON _7.23.90

509767

FAIS

7205

70 FEB2

1967

MR. DELOACH FOR THE DIRÉCTOR EASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

DocId: 32305312 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE THREE MM 105-2855

RODRIGUEZ, GERTITIE AND BALAN WILL BE ARRAIGNED IN

MIAMI ON JAN. SEVENTEEN NEXT CHARGED WITH VIOLATION OF

THE MUNITIONS CONTROL ACT, TITLE TWO TWO, US CODE, SECTION

ONFNINE THREE FOUR.

ADMINISTRATIVE. FOR THE INFORMATION OF BUREAU, THE

ORIGINAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THIS PROPOSED AIR RAID WAS

PotEntiAl SEcuRity InfoRmant

‚SUPPLIED BY RST SUNDER DEVELOPMENI) RAMON OROZCO AND CUSTOMS

WAS NOTIFIED. GERTITE, WHO PREVIOUSLY HAD ACTED AS INFORMANT

FOR CUSTOMS ORIGINALLY INTENDED NOT TO COOPERATE WITH CUSTOMS

ON IHIS PARTICULAR MATTER AND DID NOT ADVISE CUSTOMS HE WAS GOING

TO FLY THIS RAID: AFTER CUSTOMS WAS ADVISED OF INFORMATION RECEIVED

FROM OUR INFORMANT, CUSTOMS WAS ABLE TO AGAIN ASSUME CONTROL

OF GERTITE IN ORDER TO ABORI THIS AERIAL ATTACK.

MIAMI WILL FOLLOW AND REPORT PROSECUTION OF THE

THREE INDIVIDUALS ARRESTED.

Submit Copy

SUCOP.

END

WABZE

REY

FBI WASH DE

→.:: !!

OC. MR. SULLIVAN

DocId: 32305312 Page 3

---

