# jfk army record # 194-10003-10408

## Page 1

Date

Page

08/24/98

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM/CSF

: 194-10003-10408

: FOREIGN PERSONNEL AND ORGANIZATIONS

AC643175W - PAGE

78-79

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE : UNITED STATES ARMY OPERATIONAL SURVEY DETACHMENT

DATE

: 02/14/63

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS

: VECIANA BLANCH, ANTONIO

CUBAN OPERATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 2

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

---

## Page 2

ünited States Army Operational survey Detachment

1 4 FEB 1963

SUBJECT:

Cuban Operations (U)

10:

Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence

Department of the Army

ATIN: Chief, Collection Division

L. U

Reference:

USAOSD Letter, Subject: Cuban Operations (U),

dated 28

anuary 1963 Tab "Д".

On 31 October 1962, a boat of Alpha 66 was confiscated in the

Miami river by l. Santoms. The matorial on the boat ennsisted of anal?"

and other supplies and

was also confiscated.

It is believed that

the boat and supplies were impounded to prevent the Alphe bó members from

conducting a raid on cuba.

(C) USAOSD ie in contact with Mr. Veciana, an Alpha 66 representative,

and he has requested U.S. Army assistance in securing the release of the

boat and equipment.

Intornal discussions with the Customs Bureau indicate

that an expression of interest by another government agency night secure

the release of the boat and equipment.

Securing the releape of this Alpha

66 boat very probably will assist USAOSD in collecting information on Gabe

and may assist in creating a black infiltration capability.

40

It is requested that the letter attached at Tab "2" be signed

and dispatched to the Comissioner of Custome in an attenpo to Becure the

release of the Alpha 66 boat and supplies.

2 Incls:

3/s

J. B. BOUT

Colonel, Infantry

Coumanding

10

tegraded CONFIDENIIAL

when separated from

classified inclosuresa

USAOSD/ 8587

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

VECIANA has been promised a reply one way or another by 15 February.

If letter is signed by the AlSI, suggest it be hand carried to customs.

Coordination: Maj Swafford

Lt. Col Drashpil

FILE

SD DUP 745

hot ant.

May Watting on Called enderspeed is Fit to

report phoni call fam Cuctond, Meani. The

the pen try 25 crie countin, the he site!

Tompa, which had the las- lecordenly Tamps cort

a litter to it lawgend on 14 Teh seen their boar

would be ulead. No montion was made of the

it hero taking Credit t

if Veciance carl, undere

poor used ridic

red, he will to told

the made known to DEA.

wcq

EXCLUEN MONE CENTRAT

CONFIDENTIAL

---

