# jfk army record # 194-10010-10376

## Page 1

Date :

12/10/97

Page

]

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER

: 194-10010-10376

RECORDS

SERIES

DOD - AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

: XE327040E - PAGES 363 - 401

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

11728

TITLE : OFFENSE REPORT

DATE : 08/01/60

PAGES : 39

SUBJECTS : SLOBODA, VLADIMIR

I RESTRICTED]

OFFICIAL INTERROGATION

INTERIM REPORT

TESTIMONY HEARD

INVESTIGATIONAL FINDINGS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIALi

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C, 2, REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

JFK biii)

---

## Page 2

TranSlation

CONFIDENTIA

1

COPY 1

Intelligence Center at the

Police Seotor IK FALLINGBOSTEL

Administrative Distriot LUNEBURG

(Namo of the Police Administration)

(Name of the Orfice)

File Numbers _ 23/17/20 No. 45/60

Phone No:

Offence Report

Scene of the Offence:

FCR

Lower court:

SOLT AU

Date of Offence: Jaa-dug 1960

Offence: Suspicion of state endanfering

Information

100c of the Most German Criminal Gode

Aggrieved Parby:

FGH

Locused (Prepetrator and the perties

concerned):

a) Manfred WILLMANN

DOB: 14 Murch 1929

POB: MAGDEBURG

Address: no permanent residence

DOB:

FOB:

Addresa:

Subject:

Value: (damges)

Exhibits:

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS:

NOT AUTOMAT DIR CLASSIFIED.

(Stamp of receipt)

(office)

(Date)

Search for Clues

haa been carried out - hes not been carried

out.

not

Glues have/been found.

Clues have been secured and forwarded to the

Identification Office Criminal Polioe

(Name and administrative position)

FALL INGBOSTEL

- I August 1960

The following is notified:

The aocused has socording to his own state-

ment (pp. 3-6 of the file) carried out

activition endongering state security since

Jan 1960 unt11 his arreat on 31 July 1960.

He made situation sketches fron eirfields

in the FCR, gathered details ebout the MS

camp "Cenp King"' in OBraURSE, and forward

ed the material to tha MfS in the S0Z,

30J

KUBLENT AT

(signature)

Criminal First Sergeant

....

InClOSUEs CANCIDENTIAL

---

## Page 3

Tradelation

LONFIDENTIAL

2

Intelligence Center FALLINGBOSTEL,

Identification card established, Jes - no

(Office)

Fingerprinte taken.

Journal No:

File No:

Photos taken

yes - do

Person recorded

Jpa or no

In German Wunted Persons List - Arrests

Residence checks - Published in Wantad

Persong Card Index yes or no

SOLTAU

31 July 1960

OFFICIAL INTERROGATION

There appears #*) the below named person

residing:

no permanent address

phone no:

and having been informed of the subject of the interrogation

and admonished to tell the truth, declares:

1. e) Last sane, also first name,

a) WILLMANN

in case of women, maiden näme

or name of former husband,

b) First nons (underline first name

used

2. DOB and POB

3. a)

b) Manfred (1)

24 March 1929 1n MACDEBURG

Kreis (Adminiatration District MAGDEBURG

County Court District MAGDEBURG

State

Casuat worker

bb)

Clerk

None

co)

Occupation

aa) troined

bb) actual occupation at present

co) occupational position at the

time of offence

Here should be stated:

- whether bustnessman, assistant,

Independent craftsman, helper,

ete.

b) Further should be stated:

b) :

- 1f married wonen, husbands'

profession

- It pubilo servants, clerks of

local authorities, Bundesvehi

304

members, address of their office

- 1f studento, addrese of the Univ

and subject

of atudy

- if bearer of Univ degrees (Dipl

Engr, DI., ete.) when and at

EXCLUDED THOM GENTRAT

which Univ received the diploma

DFCTASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

c) If unemployed, since when?

c) 30 June 1960

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 4

TranSlatiOn

GUNFIDENTIAL

4• Income status

during the time of offencs

b)

at present

None

None

2

5. 0)

Maritel status

single - married - widowed

divorced - separated

First and last name of spouse

in cose of women give also

maiden name, or name of former

husband

c) Residence of the spouse

if different domiciles

d) Occupation of spouse

a) Marriod

b)

Oberlotte HORBEL,

SUHL, Theodor Korner Str 18

c)

d)... Waitrees

€.

8)

Number of children

Age of children

one

7.

a)

Father,

first and last name

Gocupation and residence

Mother, first and muiden name

Docupation and regidence

1a1a0 1l parents deceesed.

Guardian*), caretaker or probation

officer, occupation and residence

b)

Fritz Wland, blackamich

Philosophenwer No 8

Charlotte SCHINDLER

Office

worker,

as under a

8. Altizenship (sloo former if any)

German

9. Honorery offices

State, community or juristic body (jury

forenen, or jurist - comercial judge and

erbitrator of lebor and social problema -

guardianship or caretaking - probetion

officer or others)

10. Identification papsre

Pesaport, or other identification cards oi

permits

natura, issuing suthority, number

dete of issua) as drivers license, peddler

license, legitination ward, hunting and

fishing license, weapons permit, master's

and pilot's certificate, qualification

certificate according to Section 131,

Essie Law, Pension certificato, master

demolition certificate.

Identity card of the S0Z - IX

0082657 - Issued on 15 June 1956 by

the Peoples Police - Arels Adminis.

tration in SUal

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

305

11.

Convictions

Security and rehabilitation measures

(conviction suspended on good behaviour

parole granted) acoording to own stetement.

LOWET cOUrt KEL, Nay. 60 for 1llegal

border grossinga, a days gustody.

Soviet Mil Tribunal BERLIN-LICHTEN-

BERG on 22 Jul 49,

25 yos contine-

ment in lapor came 105 espionage a

kidnapping.

Released on

8 Jun 50

from, BAUTZEN State Prison.

CONFIDENTIAL

-?a -

---

## Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

Io come to the Foint:

After having reconsidered everything, I want to supplementary firat

statenents.

Zfter having been questioned by an Anerican agency In BERLIN MARIEN-

FELDE, I was flown to CBERURSEL upon instruction fron this office after

completing the preliminary hearing and there I came to the American camp,

"Camp King". There I was questioned again by nore persons, some of which

were dressed in civilian clothes and some in uniform, concerning my knowledge

on geological drilling. After the questioning I was sent again to lager

Fastatt (TN: C mp RASTATT) -

As far as I remember, I was given the misaion to report. to BERLIN as a

Soviet-sonal refugee and bry to get to osbrunsel. The misgion was given to

mo. on 2/1/60 by a member of the SSP In MERKIRS, Kreis ASD SAIZUNGEN, whose

name is Karl LAMBERT, about 45 years old, about. 165 centimeters talli stocky,

dark blond heir combed, straight back with the hairline slightly receding.

I was to try and find out the Inyout of "gamp King", the meriean and German

personnel present, and the nethods of interrogation by the Americans, asell

as the names of the porsons to be interrogatod. I was to inform the Mfs

about my findings, for which purpose, I was to report again at a time of ny

shoosing to the nearest MEs office in BAST GERMANY.

I also did this according to instructions. For this task I didn't

receive any money or other compensation what-so-ever. U on orders from

the MIS. I cave up my work at the Vif gaological drilling and went to

where I reported to the refugee camp and declared that I had troubles with

the MfS in MERKERS and I fled from EAST GERMANY for this reason,

прото, тот на.

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALSI

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED.

DOL DIR $200.10

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 6

CONFIDENTIAL

At that time I had on my person a few hundred East narke. I was

sent to Camp King Just as I had been ordered. I was flown to FRANKUII/M

with an inerican nilitary plane and then taken to Gone King, where my

interrogation took place. By way of Camp RASiATT and WEINSaERG, I arrived

at SCHORNDORF, where I was officially registered at Neuenstr. 19, residing

with WIEDENFOETER. There I worked with the firm of Bauknecht until the end

of June 1960.

End of page

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSUACATION SCHEDULE

1367

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

-2-

Since I had declared myself willing to report to the MIS after a certain

tine, I quit ny job and left SCHORNDORE without fornal no:ice of departuro.

I went as far as LÜBBECK on the train and went across the border near SCHLUTUP.

I passed over the border on an evening. un a friday, in carly June 1960 in

the direction of lust Germany- Then I reported to the last Gernan border

police, and the MiS from GAEVEMUGHLEN picked me up with a car. There I wrote

up and presented a report about my observations during my stay in BERLIN

MARIENTELDE, about my flight to FRANKFURT/M, and about Camp King. I also

mentioned the nane of Karl LAMBERP Of MERKERS, fran whom I had recaived this

mission. But we were not brought together. I stayed in GREVESMUERLEN until

Sunday evening: In BREVESMUEHLEN I received from 4 members of the MiS, whose

names I don't know, the mission to go to WESt GANM NY and to soy upon the lay-

eute of alsclelas and other military objects in SOUPH GERMiNY. I was to put

my observations into writing and send it to the cover address of tinni SCHULZE",

GROVESMUCHLEN, Postlagernd (PN: General Delivery). I received from on e of the.

MrS people 200 D West and then was taken to the border with a sedan, I then

passed over during the hours of darkness near SCHLUTUP in the direction of

West Germany. I took the train again from LUEBECK to MUNICH and further on ta

FUERSTENFELDBRUCE. I made noles about the airfields and sent these notes to

the given cover address by first class mall from MUNICH. I then travelled on

to KOLN and there I made a sketch of the KOSIN-WAHN airfield, which I also

sent by first class mail from KOELN to the cover address. From the fenced

in part of Camp King in OBERUFSEL.

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

308

COMFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 8

-3-

CONFIDENTIAL

Also in accordance with my orders I prepared sketchos of the Camp King

(OBERURSEL) fence line, they wanted me to especially indicate the distance

fron the fence to the temporary barracks. This sketch I mailed from FiNKFURI/M

to the cover address I was given.

I must amend that for the trip fron LUEDECK to MUNICH I received DM

75 (West in addition to DM 200 (West).

In the aforenentioned cities I stayed for about 2 weeks altogether. By

the middle of June I left FRANKFURT on a hitchhike trip all over the Federal

Republic. On this trip I came through MUNICH, STUTTGART, HANNOVEE, and other

smaller towns the name of which I have forgotten. In HANNOVER I have been

last week. The reason for this sort of vagrancy has been a certain fear of

being apprehended by the West German police and the doubt of a successful

crossing of the Zone border. As a matter of fact, I had in mind to quit

working for the MfS and was not süre if I ought to return to the Zone. Even-

tually I came around to the conviction that giving myself up to the police

would be the best way to break with the past. When asked where my reception

certificate of the BIN MIRIENEID Roception Camp was, I truthfully replied

that, I had nailed the document to Karl LAMBERI, an Mes agent, mail address

BAD SAIZUNGEN, This happened in May in OBENURSEL. I also Inclosed the re-

ferral slip and the health certificate, I had been assigned the mission by

IMBEfT to mail him the originals of these papers and that is what I did.

While I have been in confinement in the RAUIZEN penitentary I signed a

peper for a State Security agent named KRuG, who has been employed as a vel-

fare conmissioner of the penitentiary, a paper, by which I was obligated to

prepare morale reports on my fellow innates and on the attitude of the

policement towerds the convicts. This I have carried out about 25 or 30 timos.

307

DECLASSIFICATION SCHED UM.B

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 9

...

CONFIDENTIAL

- 4-

All the sane,

I have not been able to perceive any repercuasions on

porsons nentioned in ry raports. I must add, though, that I have kept, these

reports very general without accusing anybody specifically. KRUG, assigned

the cover name "Fritz WABrEll" to me by which I used to sign my reports.

Fron

time to tine I received a pack of cigarettes for my work, but nothing else.

After my rolease I have been employed by the firm SIMSON in SUHLi, and

again I contacted by an MES agent by name of either NEUB UEk or NEUGEBAUDE.

He made me write

reporte on the production of Mopede and on the difficulties

of their manufacture. For this work I received from NEUBAUER up ta DM 100

(Bast) from time to time.

Again 1 used to sign the reports with my cover

name Fritz WALlER".

Since Christnas 1955, I started living separately from my wife. 1

filed a divorce, because I am sure that I am not the father of her chila;

the case was dismissed though. Up to now I have no, paid any support for

the child. However, my wife has taken my accident annuity and spent it for

her own purposes.

I believe Ithave told everything I lnow. I have given this information

voluntarily and told the truth.

I am not able to make further statementa.

Fersonally read, approved, and aigned.

(=/ Manfred Willenn

Closed:

s/Kubbritat

Chief of the Criminal Dept.

MONGOOSE CUAGE PASSOR/LAD

DEGUESSERCATION DESCE 7.39

370

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 10

CONFIDENTIAL

Federal Griminal Department, Protective Imprisonment in

BAD GODESBERG No: 35, dated 2 /ugust 1960

TO:

1.) Intelligence. Center FALLINGBOSIEL

for information

2. State Griminal Police Office - Sec D in H NNOVKE

SUBJECT: Freliminary Investigation of Manfred WILlMAN, born I4 Mar 29

in MAGDUBURG

FUFERENCE: Your IWX No: 9, dated 1 Aug 60, file No: 23.17.20

The Police Department In BOILiN informed us with IWX No: 415, dated 7 June

I960, that the preliminary invastigation of WILliNt was submitted from the

Public Prosecutor BERLIN - 2 PIs 1046/60 - not. to the Chief Federal Prosecutor

at the Federal Court, but to the Public Prosecutor in KiRkSFUll. The procedure

should now depend upon the Public Prosecutor in BADEN-BADIN under tbe file No:

3 Us 1166/60. WILLMANN was living at that tine in the State Reception Camp,

RighTt, Luotzowetr.

MES member, Karl LAMBERT from DEZIR idministration SUll, in the same

procedure was known under the following description:

born apprx 1915, 160 em tall, stocky, dark complexion, was before deputy

managar of Department 1l of Fezirk Idninistration SuHl, should now be en-

ployed with the Kreis Office BAD-SALZUNGEN.

Nonber of the Ministry of State Security NEUGEBUER, fnu, Bosirk Admini-

stration, born appry 1911, engaged in 1958 to brich SAUERMANN, born 12 May

1915, and gave him missions.

Fron the information of a friendly intelligence service, here are known

the following Mis members:

i...

371

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 11

CONFIDENTIAL

Paul NUD. UDA from Bezirk Administration SUHL

and Paul KRUG from the Krols Office BAUTZEN

Description of NEUB UBK:

born apurx 1909/14, rank: Lieutenant, apprx 173 tall, blond hair

Description of KRUG:

born epprx 1923/27, 166-173 tall, address BUEEN,

FaulintI, before

9153 livad in LORDAU, Bahnhofstr 8, MIS - Officer in prison BlUzuN.

Federal Criminal Department - Protective Imprisonment - B=D GODESBELG

File # I1 1651/60

for signed BINING,

Main Criminal Commissioner

3:2

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 12

CONFIDENTIAL

Intelligence Center in

Police Sector Landkreis PALLINGBOSTEL

Regierungabezirk LUNEBURG

File 1 23.17.20

FALLINGBOSTEL, 9 August 1960

Intarim Report :

The accused, Manfred WILLMINN, born on 14 Mar 29, in MAGDEBURG, without

permanent residence, was. on 31 Jul 60, temporarily arrested by the police

station SOIlAU, because of suspicion of the vagabondage and was taken the

sane day before the district court in SOLIAU, which issued a warrant of

arrest.

An interrogation by an official of the police station SOLTAU, WILLENN

stated under other things, that he, while being imprisoned in the penitontiary

BAUTZEN, where he was until the year 1956; upon being convicted of espionage

and kidnapping by a Soviet military court, was an inforner for the states se-

curity service, reporting the norale of his inmates.

For this reason, he was interrogated be the public prosecutor in BERLIN

and also in ScHORNDORE by the order of the public prosecutor in BADEN-BeDEN.

ifter the publication of the warrant of arrest by the district court in

SULTAU, WILIMINN was once again interrogated by an official of the intelli-

gence

center in FALLINGBOSTEL.

During this interrogation WILIMAN now stated:

a) On 2 Jan 60, he should have received an order from the MIS member Karl

IMBErt at the MIS office in BAD SALZUNGEN, through transit - rosp. receiving

camp BERLIN MIMINFELDE, to set out for the American caserne "Camp King", in

3

CONFIDENTIAL

...

---

## Page 13

...

:

CONFIDENTIAL

OBiTURSEl and there to gather infornation about the situation of the camp,

the pursonnel of the camp, the netheds of interrogation and data of the per-

sons to be interrogated.

b) The order accomplished and the knowledge gained given to the MiS in

GREVESMUHLEN/Soviet Zone, after he crossed the border at SChLUTUP in the

direction Fast.

c) He should have received orders from four members of the MiS in GRiVES-

MUEHLUN, to gather information of the location of airfields in South Germany

and further knowledge of the American caserne "Camp King" in OBERURSEL.

For this mission WILLMANN received from the MFS in GREVESMUHLEN a sun

200.00 DM (West and 75.00 DM (Weat) for travelling expenses.

d) The last named mission accomplished and has been reported through mail

to the cover address "Anni SCHULZE, GREVESMUGHLEN, Postlagernd".

During his stay in Bast Germany, WILLMANN has net or worked for the

following Mfs membere:

1) Karl LAMBEKI, MES BAD SALZUNGER, object MERKERS/RHOEN,

2) KRUG, let name likely: Paul, MIS BAUTZEN,

NEUGEBAUER, MES Bezirk office SUl

The Federal Criminal Police - Security Department - BAD GODESEERG has

knowladge about the above mentioned information in 1 - 3.

Because of the cooperation with MES BAUTZE during his imprisonment, the

proceedings are transferred from the public prosectuor BERLIN 2 PJs 1046/60

to the public prosecutor KARLSRUHE and are now processed by the public prose-

cutor BADEN-BADEN under file

# 3 Js 1166/60.

A warrant of arrast for WILIMANN in this case is not issued.

The public prosecutor in GOEITINGEN has a case against Heinz WILLMANN,

XELUDED FROM GEMERAL 7

DECLASSITICATION SCHEDULE

3,4

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 14

CONFIDENTIAL

apprx 32 years old, born in MIGDEBUFG or vicinity, a preliminary investiga-

tion, file # 6 AR 150/58, a suspicion of false incrimination. In this file

Heinz WILLMINN is accusod fron a fellow prisoner of the penitentiary BUTZEN,

to be an informer for Pecples lolice Undercommisar MIER and belonging to the

so-called "Red Circle". He is called "the worst informer".

Considering the situation "Heinz WILIMith" could be the same Manfred

WILMINY, who was born in MGDEBURG and was in the penitentiary BlUtEN.

The files of the proviaional reception camp BERLIN, Beg # 687551 shows,

that on 8 Jan 60, Manfred WILLMANN reported there as a refugee fron Last

Germany. The reasons for his flight he gave as the difference with MfS,

for whom be has worked during his imprisonnent in BUYZIN and alao Later.

The investigations board of the "Free Jurists", dated 21 Jan 60, writea

about WILIMANN, that fron 1945-47 he was a member of SPD-SED. He was fron

1947 to 1949 in the lest Gornan together with his wife born in Poland. Dur-

ing a visit to his parents in MiGDEBURG, he was arrested and sentenced by a

Soviet military court on espionage and kidnapping charges to 25 yeare labor

camp, which was reduced in the summer of 1955 to 9 years.

The Soviet military Tribunal had the opinion WILlM Ni's wife, who he

taken with him to west Germany, was a Soviat Russian, because her father

was born in Soviet Fussia.

on 3 June 56, WILLMANN was granted an amnesty and discharged from the

penitentiary. In the penitentiary BAUTZEN he was employed as an inforer

for the MES members (welfara officer) undor the cover name "Fritz WALTER" and

submitted every 2 - 3 months reports of the prisoners' morale.

In the winter of 1956, he was

visited again by the MES member KoCIOL

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DEGLASSLFICATION SCHENULE

CONFIDENTIAL

--.

---

## Page 15

CONFIDENTIAL

from SUHL, and he had to make reports about the worker of SIMN factory

VEB in SUHL.

it the lost be had been a dispatcher with VEB Geological Boring, object

MERKERS. There be made 12 - 15 reports about the technical cooperation and

the existing tethods of work to the MiS member Karl LAMBERT of the MIS

BAD SALZUNGEN.

According to the information of the Investagation Board of the "Free

Jurists", WILLMANN should have been working since 1953 as an inforner for

the MfS and it must be assumed, that WILIMNN has not only reported to the

MeS of hermless things, but that his action has brought considerable damage

to other persons.

So Dr. Med. Paul HOFTMINN, BERLIN-CHARLOTTENBURG Alemannenetr stated

to the Board of Free Jurist, that WILLMANN was a messenger in the hospital

house #1 of the penitentiary BAUTZEN, has many doctore denunciated and

robbed the inmates and showed himself as a 100% communist.

According to the report of police office in STUlGil from 9 Dec 47 to

30 HUg 48, WILIM NN was registered and lived in STUTTGANT, Seidenstr 36.

During the time of his residence in STUtTGARI, nothing is discrinitory

isnown about him.

He stated by himself, that he, until the spring 1949, had worked with

a femily HOLZMANN in STUTTGART .

Then he was working with a GS0 unit (German Service Organization) in

FUSSBURG, Kreis CELLE. After e radio set and clothing was stolen: by him

from a fellow worker, he want over to the Soviet Zone.

The files of this theft are in the office of the publie prosecutor

LUENEBURG, branch office CELLE, file #2 Js 2948/49 and i Js 11/141/50.

3,0

Đ8X 4832/4C27OX A0650175

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 16

CONFIDENTIAL

According to the law of penal freedon, the procedure was stopped.

WILLMANN is now in arrest, with warrant of arrest from the District

Court of SOLTAU, according to paregraph 8, Law 244/60 because of vagabond-

age and suspicion of connitting crime according to par 92 and 74 of the Penal

Code.

The next examination of the arrest is presumably on 24 Aug 60.

He has no steady residence, was picked up at SOLTAU and there ig an

urgent suapicion that WILLMANN, in opposite to his statements, wants again

to depart to Last Germany. Therefore it is requested to preserve and con-

tinue the warrant of arrest.

Further

• investigation is

still in progreas.

/s/ illegible

Criminal - Hauptmeister

5;7

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 17

CONFIDENTIAL

Now. at LUENEBURG, IR Aug 1960.

Intelligence Office

EALLINGBOSTEL

Testimony heard:

Manfred WILLMINN, visited in jail where he was held pending trial

in LUENEBUG, his personal description heving been recorded, on boing

questioned; further declared

concerning himself:

My father is Fritz WILLMANN, born 14 Dec 1899 in MAGDEBUNG. His trade

is a snith and he has been employed for the last few yeers as salaried

chairman of the SUHt Bezirk of the GDSF (German-Soviet Friendahip Society).

Residence - see page 13.

My mother's name is Charlotte nee SCHINDLER, born 18 Jan 1908 in BANLIEU

ST MRIN/MOTZ and is & bookkeeper, now employed in the House of Culture in

SUHi. as of 7 Oct. She is a section chief there.

I am the oldest son and went to elementary school in MAGDEBURG and then

the BEETHOLD OTTO School to the 12th class.

I didn't graduate as I got into trouble with my parents because of 01ga

Leoni PLOTNIKON, a stateless foreigner, with whom I had an affair.

I brought Miss PLOTNIKOW to West Germany in the summer of 1947 on her

own wish. She stayed first in REGENSBUNG and later in STUTTGARI. Then I

lost track of her and do not know where she is today.

After coning to West Germany in 1947 I stayed here. I registerad with

the police in December 1947 in STUTTGAIN, Seident, 36, and worked as a

laborer for the Philipp HOLZMINN, a building firm in STUTTGARI. I was not

registered with the police from the time of my first border crossing until

378

25°

CONFIDENTIAL

...

---

## Page 18

CONFIDENTIAL

December 1947 but on the contrary I had returned to Last Germany to get

my effects and I also visited my old schoel chun Helmut SCHENKE, WIESBADEN.

After August 1948, I was twice at my parents on an interzonal passport

and then I started working with a GSU unit in FASSBERG as a laborer. 1

worked there until the sumer of 1949. I was registered in UNTERLIESS.

as I was uprooting s umps for & company in UNTERLUESS before joining the

GSO.

In UNTIRLULSS I stole a radio set and some garments fron à colleggue

and soid them in the UKRAINIAN Camp. Then I made for the Soviet Zone and

was arrested in the station at MAGDEburG.

I must further say, thet i worked several months in the Finance

Office in WOLMIRSTEDT as a clerk after leaving school. This was befors

I went to West Germany with Miss PLOTNIKOW.

is I alraady stated, I was

sentenced to 25 years in a labor camp

by a Soviet military court.

I have another brother called Fritz-Wilhelm WiLLMANN, born 25 Dec

1938 in MAGDEBURG.

He is a graduate of SUlL and then went to the officers' school in

PRENZLAD and later in PLAEN. Ho is probably an DG officer today.

have no other brothers or sisters.

I have an uncle in West Germany called Wilhel SCHiNDlati, builder by

trade; Living In DUESSELOCIF, Bastion

1 or, Bastionstr 2. I have not seen him

since 1947 or 1948, nother uncle, nomed Walter WILl NN is living in

HAMBUEG-FUHLSBUETTEL, Hunmelskuctteler Landstr. 100. He is a salesman

by profession.

My parenta live in SUH, Philosopherweg & in the Soviet Zone, Other

3

9

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 19

CONFIDENTIAL

paternal relatives live in MAGDEBUNG.

After ny hop fron BErLIN to ObERUnSEL, and after being released from

that calp, I crossed the kHING at Kill. I was arrested by the french there,

who, wanted to take me Into the Foreign Legion. Finally I was turned back

to KEHl and got a sentence of 14 days for illegal border crossing from the

district acurt in Kail. I intended to get a job in France.

Concerning the case:

My testimony of 31 July 1960 was read out to me.

It is correct through-

out and I give it today in the very same

form.

I can make no accurate statement concoming the location of the MIS

building in GREVESMUEHLEN and I want to try to make a drawing of it fron

memory. Cnnot give the names of the four MfS men of the GREVESMUEHLEN

Mfs. They did show me their papers, but I did not read the names, and would

not have remembered them either.

Barly in the morning of the Saturday I was taken away by an MfS man

in civilian clothes. We got in GREVESMUEHLEN toward 0300 hours. While the

Mfs man wont into the MiS building to phone MErils about LAMBER I waited

in the auto with the driver who also wore mufti. Then I was lodged in

house not directly acrose the street. This house did not seem to have a

tenant. It was not in the Mis office that I was lodged.

That Saturday I was interrogated by three osher Mis men and I wrote

my report.

I was even writing the report Sunday.

I ate in the house where I lived;

I was not in the town in GREVESMUEHLEN and so cannot tell anything about

local features.

560

"..*

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 20

.......

-

CONFIDENTIAL

Descrintion of the MfS men:

First fellow: Mout 42 gears old, about 172 - 175 en tall, silm, brown

hair combed back without a part, spoke high German without

an accent, wore a dark grey leather overcoat, breuches und

boots.

He was the spokesman and, assumedly, the others chief.

Second Fellow: About 45 years old, about 175 on tall, slight build, sunken

cheeks, pale, straight blond hair, spoke the dialect of

HOSTOCK,

was a chain-smoker. That Sundey evening he wore

• lat Lieutenant's uniform of the Border Police.

Third Fellow: About 28 years old, some 160 en tall, robust build, brown

wavy hair combed back. He spoke the Saxon dislect and wore

the uniform of a junior lieutenent of the Border Folice.

Fourth Person: Starting his thirtiee, about 165 - 168 em tall, somewhat

stooky. He spoke high German, ancked a pipe and wore a

sports jacket and dark pants.

The MIS in GIEVESMULHLON was especially interested in Camp King in

OBerUrSEL and gave me the mission of going there again and to get very

accurate data as to the location of all buildings. They were interested

in the distance of the various buildings fron the fence and what was in

the different bnildings. I presented my observations vory much as I did

today in the questioning - maybe even more exactly and better.

The MPS was

interested in security measures at the FUEFSTENEDIDE: UON

air base and additional precautions for thi occasion of the sup osedly

coming international air mest. i mysalf lnew no hing uf the Internationel

air meet.

In this instance

I did not make a report, but told the kis what

361

'SCLUDED FROM GENERAT

DECLASSUFICATION SCHEDULE

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 21

CONFIDENTIAL

sort of fencing was there, which was what they mainly wanted to know. I

used the cover address:

Inni SCHULES, GROVESMUGHLON, Fostlagernd (tat:

General Delivery). I meiled the lonter in a let urbox in MUNICH.

The ifS wanted to know what I had soon and observed of air traffic

at the KOLHLN - WIN airport, I was to report on the frequency of flights

at REIN M IN sirport. They wore interested in the military traffic it

the MAIN FB in relation to the comercial airport of KOCHLAW HN.

I an of the opinion that ths. last two missiong were not so important,

for the MeS laid stress on reports on ChiP iNd near OBBURSEL.

-COUDED THOMT GENERAI

DECLASSIFICATION SORIMILE

362

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 22

CONFIDENTIAL

I sent the reports on the COLOGNE WAHN airport from COLOGNE to the

above nentioned cover address.

Similarly, those on the RHEIN MAIN AFE I nailed from FRANKFURI/Main.

In all, I mailed three reports for the MfS to the cover address, I

would like to make a correction - the report from OBERURSLL made four in

a11, I meiled the last report fron FRANKFURI/Main.

I will doscribe the MI'S men who I encountered during my imprisoment

in BAUTZEN and later:

1/ NEUGED TER, Paul, agent for the VEB-SIMSON, SUHL 2, some 180 cm tall,

corpulent, some 110 kg in weight, about 45 years old, brown hair, beavy

drinker, very likely had once been a laborer. I had to write reports

on morale among the working peoplo for him.

3/

KRUG, Paul, about 172 cm tall, about 38 years old, brown hair, slim,

obliquely vertical sear some 10 en long on his forchead (dent). He

put me under obligation to work in BAUTZEN Prison and gave me the

cover game "Fritz WIrEl", under which I subsequently nade reports

on prisoners and officials of the institution.

3/

KOZIOL, Hubert, about 40 years old, some 170 em tall, light brown hair

and streaked, presumable a Silesian, in the SUHL MES office, prior to

tbat ILMENAU MES, KOZIOL took me into the VEE-SIMSON. He is, presum-

ably, the chief agent covering the VEB's in Bozirk SUHL.

I do not know a M'S men called NEUB UER. It is probably the NEUGEBAULTi

I know thet is meant,

4/ L MBERI, KArl, BAD S LZUNGEN Kreis Office of the MIS, whose description

1s in the record of ny questioning of 31 July 1960.

303

MIG UDEG PROM GENERAL,

****** *s

220L40IXEGA TION SCENDUES

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 23

.. ....

CONFIDENTIAL

I have already been intorrogated in BERLIN and in RASTATT concerning

my collaboration with the MeS in BAUTZEN, SUHL and BAD SALZUNGEN. Of

this collaboration I can only say in general that that I gave reports

prescribed on the conduct of prison guards toward prisoners and general

reports on the morale of prisoners. The reports on the VEB-SIMSON in SUHL

and the VEB Geologische Gohrungen (IN: geological drillings) in the MErKERS

Installation dealt with troubles in the operations of the plants, No single

Individuals were nemed in these reporto.

The ex-conviet WladimiT SHEPANENKO, alias Fritz BAIER had something

to do with the operations section of the Pooples Police and the fussian

liaison officer during his imprisonment. I do not know if he was a colla-

borator with the MrS. During my stay in SCHORNDORF I read in & newspaper

probably a paper for the repatriated, that SHEPANNKO had been arrested in

BERLIN and that people who were with him In BAUTZEN are being sought.

SHEPANENKO very likely knew of my collaboration with the operations section

of the Vp and I thought that I would be gought in west Germany. Therefore

I quit my job with BAUKNECHI's in SCHOFNDORF and tried to get back to East

Germany. In the SOLIAU region I had an agonizing reappreisal of the natter

and decided to turn myself into the Weat German police and to admit to working

for the MfS: I therefore phoned the police from an Autobahn phone booth and

turned nyself in. First I gave statements on those matters that were already

known, both at the prison in BERLIN and that in BADIN-BADEN. Later I decided

to talk in the matter of my MiS missions concerning conditions in West Germany

which I have just done. I have told everything and have not held baok anything.

:504

=4.d?:

TO CAThy

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 24

CONFIDENTIAL

I ask for leniency.

Nothing follows.

(signed) Manfred Willmann

Read by me and signed (signed) KUBBRITAI

Chief Detective

"","

. ..

385

CONFIDENTIAL

35

---

## Page 25

CONFIDENTIAL

PETTESSA,

2x: 30)

CULINICA

{***

N.*. +737

not Security Brindled

Propios police Krely Office)

Made

Nagned:

1ing

12/8/10

DO/NORADD AT 17 YEAR INTERYALS,

CELESTS ANOING LON

i?'9.1

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 26

Taken fron the original

FEE FFSEX,

FALL TOROSCAL,

25/8/60

Drawa fraunemory

Signedy

12/8/60

Street

CAR

Vehicle

Faring

incorrogation frendons

41002

orr

Pine

Radio Station

nterrogation offic

Enlisted Personnel - Thinow

about 2 metors

EROCE

Downgraded as 12 year

intervela;

20b

automatically declashirieda

US Quartera

Guare

306:

3%7

34

DIRECTION OBERURSEL = BAD HOMBURG ONADENTIAL →

---

## Page 27

CONFIDENTIAL

TALLINGBOSTEL 15/8/60

Intelligence Office

ELLINGBOSTEL.

Investigational Findinge

The acoused Manfred WILLMN was additionally questioned while in pre-

trial confinement at the LUENEBURG Frison in regard to his statements fron

31 July I960.

He admitted his crininal activity again to the prejudice of the Federal

Republic and as nuch as could be remembered by him, also a personal descrip

tion of the MIS members, with whom he came in contact during this activity.

Upon being asked he also prepared a sketch one each of the inerican Camp

"Camp. King" in OBERUKSEL and the location of MfS building in GREVESMUEHLEN,

which were made part of the file.

Questions about a lega proceeding against & Heinz WILLMANN according

to file CAR 150/58 of the Public Frosacutors Office of GOETTINGEN with re-

gard to suspicious of offense according to par 2l4a of the Fenal Code, WILl-

MiNN declared that he did not know a Heinz WILLMANN, however he had been able

10 get to know almost all of the people mentioned in the proceedings during

the time he was in confinement in BUTZEN.

The Attorney General of the Provineial Court in GOLTCINGEN has been

informed of the proceedings in process against Manfred WILLM NN and attached

to the file a photograph of Manfred WILLMANN for purposes of identification.

During the repcated interrogation on 12/8/60 WILLM NN did not give

any edditional, as yet unknown data about his criminal activity and struck

to statement alroady nade during the 31 Jul 60 interrogation. No further

DOWNCRADED AT IZ YEAR INTERVALS:

NOT AUTOMATICALLY ECLASSIFIED,

DOD DIR $200.10

CONFIDENTIAL

388

---

## Page 28

CONFIDENTIAL

........ .......

information could be obtained from him. Re made hie statements with com-

plete self assurance, which is indicative of good menory respectively good

training in relation to his snawers.

Regarding his activity to the prejudice of the merican Camp "Cemp

King" in OBERURSEL it would have to be checked to what extent he had con-

mitted an offence against the provisions of hanex "y" to the Arned Forces

Agreement,

Further knowledge about the criminal activity of WILLM NN cannot be

obtained here.

signature/illegable

Criminal Ist Sgt

EXCLNDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

385

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 29

...

CONFIDENTIAL

Contents:

Photographe of the clerk.

Manfred WILLM NN

born 14/3/29 in MGDEBURG,

legal proceedings according to 100e of the Penal Code

by the ittorney General of the Provincial Court CElLE

filed under P 0 Js 84/60

in the Police Sector Landkreis FALLINGBOStEL

REGIERUNGS BUZIRK LUENEBURG

Filed under: 23.17.20 No: 45/60

HXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASCIFIDATION SCHEDLE

390

CONFIDENTIAL

... ..

...

---

## Page 30

CONFIDENTIAL

22

Intelligence üffice

In the Police Section

Landkreis FALLINGBOSTEL

Regiorungsbezirk LURNEBURG

EALLINGBOSTEL 16/8/1960

...

Filed under: 23.17.20 No 45/60

....

Remarks:

The doouments were sent to the attorney General of the Provincial

Court CELLE on 15 Auguat 1960.

Distribution:

NYdI - LEV - HANNOVER

LKP D

- HANNOVER

BNST

- LUENEBURG

NST

— F. LLINGBOSTEL

signature/illegable

Griminal Ist Sgt

Official stamp:

The Regional President LUNBURG

I PN (60)

Date processed: 28 ug 1960

Filed under: 23.17.20 No: 1364/60

Chief/Assistant/

1.50

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS;

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED,

DOD. DIR 5200.10

CONFIDENTIAL.

---

## Page 31

cONFIDENTIAL

Pages 23 and 24 are photographs

DOWNGRADED AT I2 YEAR INTERVALS;

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED,

DOD DIR 5200.10

392.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 32

CONFIDENTIAL

TRANSLATION

To the Criminal Police, Land HESSE, in WIESBADEN

The examining judge of the Superior Land

Court CELLE, of the HANNOVER land Court

20 AR 40/60

HANNGVER, & Septenber 1960

Fresident of Land Court, THOELKE, as judge

Ministry of Justice clerk, MATTHIES

as Official in Charge of Documents

In the Prelininary Inquiry

against Manfred WILLMANN

the accused WILLMANN brought forward.

The accused was informed of which criminal acts he was to be charged

with, in accordance with the decree of 23 August 1960 concerning the opening

of the preliminary inquiry.

He was then advised that he had the opportunity to appear before the

examining judge to present his case.

Upon being questioned he stated:

I am ready to testify.

Particulars, as on page 4, column d of the enclosures.

Concerning his life history the accused made the following statements:

on 14 March 1929, In MAGDEBUFG, I was born to Fritz WILLMANN, at that

time a publisher, and his wife Cherlotte WILLMANN, nee SCHINDLER. I was

raised in MAGDEBURG, attended grammar school there from 1935 to 1939, and

after that, high school until 1947. I did not graduate. With the approval

of my parents, I left school during the 12th grade of high echool. The

reason for this was difficulties because of my relationship with a foreign

woman named Ulga Leoni PLOTNIKOW. Since Fall 1945, after being bombed out,

MOLUNTO PRON SNEAKT

PH-J6/030CC/.230M SCE:*y9) 17

2

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 33

CONFIDENTIAL

I lived with my parents in WOLLERSTEDT. From 1933 my father manufactured

typewrtter ribbons, thie was after his publishing house was shut down by

the Advertising Council of the Ministry of Econonics. After the collapse

he was active in public offices. Among other positions, he was bezirk

Director of DEWAG, Kreis Gounsellor for Public Education Matters, and is now,

full time, on the Board of Directors of the hasociation for Gorman-Soviet

friendship in Bezirk SUHL.

I was raised in a well ordered home and have a brother ten years youngor

than I. He started a career as an officer in the last German Army, and pos-

sible has already become en officer.

After leaving school I went to work in the WOLMIRSTEDT (Ed. Note:

possible error-for "WOLIMERSTENT") Finance office as an administrative

clerk.

In the Pall of 1947, I, with my girl friend, enigrated to West dernany,

My girl friend asked me to take her there.

we were together in the REGENSBUFG

ares. However, we seperated later, after December 1947. I found a job es

a construction worker with the Phillip Holatann Company.

My girl friend Olga PLOTNIKOW, is the daughter of a Fussian, as far

as I can tell; she was born in POLAND, hed a Plish passport, and on her

mother's side, was of German descent, In accordance with Soviet law, she

was regarded as a Soviet citizen, as I was told later during my nubsequent

pre-trial imprisonment. Our emigration to the West, at least on ny side,

was purely for personal reasons. I could not judge whether or not my girl

friend really had other reasons or not. She had been tenporarily enployed

by the Had Army: Her fate 1s not known to me.

Around the Winter of 1948, as a Laborer, I entered a Gorman Service.

hit COSALS

394

"•...

---

## Page 34

CONFIDENTIAL

Organisation unit which was stationed in FASSBERG. A short while before go-

ing in, I had worked for a company in INTERLUESS, blasting stumps. During

my work for the GS0 unit I was employed at the control tower of the FASSHERG

Airport. I vas quartered in the GSO unit's official quarters, and at the

sane tine, bowever, 1 was registered with the UNTERluess police, where I

still had a room.

My entry in the GSO unit took place at the order of the MGB, the hussian

Intelligence Services. On the occasion of a visit to East Gernany, made

n01-

melly with an interzonal pass, I was accosted by a Russian officer of the

Headquarters whom I already knew, and finally pledged to cooperated by a Fus-

sian civilian, apparently an MGB member. I was required to sign a pledge of

cooperation and given specific missions. This happened in the Fall of 1948.

For this reason, I gave up my job in STUTIGARI and went into the GSO unit.

I made several written reports of ny discoveries at the FASSBERG Airport,

furthermore, I was in last Germany several times and rendered verbal reports.

My reports were takon down by the MiB agents. I was then required to sign

the document.

When I gave the verbal reports, I clearly san that the NGB had another

Source who wes better informed of conditions at the FASSBERG Airport than I.

The fussians were nore interested in the air lift being conducted at that time.

At the control point I had a close-up view of the types of aircraft being used

and the frequency of take-offs.

I alao reported on the locality of the air-

port; however, I was of the opinion that that was of no significance. Once,

when I had to prepare a terrain sketch of the airport, I forgot to indicate

i:t.

395

COMFIDENTAL

---

## Page 35

...

CONFIDENTIAL

two fuel dunps.

It was immediately pointed out that the two fuel dumps

were nissing from my drawing.

As ordered, I left for Last Germany in the Sunmer of 1945. I was to

get a new nission. In order to cover my loaving, I conmitted the

burglary

which is already a matter of record. It is clear to me that this larceny

is already disposed of, since it feel under the impunity law.

When I reported in MAGDEBURG to the MGE in the Headquarters as ordered,

I was, in the course of several discussions, made familiar with my new task.

I was supposed with false papers and using another name-to be taken on in

an American agency in South Germany and report fron there. I did not yet

know the exact mission. From the beginning I stated that I didn't want to

fulfill this mission, that it was too dangerous for me. Sometime before I

had read a newspaper report which stated that an anerican military court bad

sentenced two Czechs, aB

I remenber it; to twanty years? imprisonment, even

though they had taken completely unimportant photos of a military airport.

In spite of all persuasion, I was steadfast in my refusal. By now the ME

members had reversed themselves. They explained to me that I would have to

answer to a Soviet military tribunal for espionage in favor of the went and

for kidnapping a fussian citizen (female), They gave me three days to think

it over. I still refused, since I couldn't think of simply accepting the mis

sion and then going over to the lost. I regarded my possible position in the

West as more difficult than the proceding of the Soviet military court.

ifter my final refusal, I was turned over to the interrogations offi

cials, placed in confinement in BERLIN HOHENSCHOENHAUSEN, and finally, in

Deoenber 1949, was sentenced to 25 years in a labor camp by a Soviet military

596

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 36

CONFIDENTIAL

tribunal in BERLIN-LICHTENBERG. The grounds for my conviction were, frist, the

circumstances under which I had taken my girl friend to the west, and secondly,

Western papers of the GSO unit were found in my possession. I insisted that

these papers had been got out under orders. However, the military tribunal

did not agree. The penalty pronouncement against me was about normal. In

those days it was probable that the sentence would not be fully served.

Concerning his stay in the BAlTZEN Prison, the accused made the same

statements he nade during a police interrogation on 1l February 1960, from

sheet 1, columns 69 to 70 of the enclosure, so far as the parenthesis in

red.

This part of the police statement, after being re-read, was certified

to be correct.

Under advisement he stated:

I have a good conscience regarding uy activity in the prison. I caused

injury to none of ny fellow prisoners. The charges raised against me, which

had already been brought against me in BERLIN, are not true, If I had had

a bad conscience in this matter, I would have not come to west Germany.

The statements of the witness, KROBHL, (Sheet 77 of the enclosure) have

already been disclosed to re by the police. I can only maintain, that the

connections asserted by the witness ars not really true. I know that a physi-

cian has stated that I was engaged in pilfering from inmatates of the prison.

This statement is true. I, in my function as "floor elder", was called on

to do such things. I did not know how I could withdraw. The pilfering was

never doen at my own desire, but always upon orders of the prison leaders,

397

6

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 37

CONFIDENTIAL

I did not hit any dostors. I request the doctor in question, and all the

other doctors who have fled to the west, who, I balieve, must be known in

BERLIN, to be questioned, if necessary, concerning my statement, 1 an con-

vinced that the suspicion will be found to be unfounded.

Concerning his personal actions after being released from prison, and

his employment by the MiS during this period, the accused made the same state-

ments as in his police interrogation on Sheet 70, columns 70-71, as far as

the written-in parenthesis, with, however, the following corrections and

additions:

I have maintained ny residence in SUHL. I did not nove to MERKERS.

I was taken there by the police because that is where I worked. I married

my wife in SUHl, on 29 October 1957. We separated on Christmas 1958. Ester,

the child is in a children's home. I point out that I have not acknowledged

the legitimacy of this child. My appeal has been unsuccessful. I had no

opportunity to name. the actual father.

Then, at the end of Decembor 1959, I received the mission to the West

from the MfS. I have already made statements concerning this to the police.

1 intended, purely for private reasons, to go to PRAGUE for the New Year's

holidays. I then got the call that I should be ready for a job. Therefore,

I did not carry through my travel plans. I had to stay at home, and then,

on 2 January 1960, as I remember it, I started out for BERLIN,

The accused then made tho same statements as in his police interro

gation on 31 July 1960, Sheet 19 of the Enclosuren, as far as the written

in parenthesis.

After being re-read this part of the police statement was

certified as correct.

7

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 38

CONFIDENTIAL

Under advisenent the accused stated:

I do not wish to nake any further statements concerning ny directed mis-

sion in OBERURSEL. I know that an influential man from Caup King hes gone

to the Soviet Union. I fear reprisals if I make further statoments.

I remained at Camp King for about 15 days. There I received free board

and lodging and DM 10 per day. Fron my controller I received some material

(photographs dealing with a carbon dioxide drilling) which I was to daliver

to an

Americon intelligence collection ageney. At Camp King I was not pledged

by the Americans, or any other intelligence service.

Un this point the accused made the same statements as on Sheet 19, last

paragraph to Sheet 20, as far as the written-in parenthesis, the statement,

sheet 44'of the enclosure, up to the parenthesis in red, and sheet 45 up

to tho parentheais in red. After reading this portion, the accused certi-

fied it to be correct.

He then stated:

My further statements concerning the rendering of reports to the MfS

in GREVESHUCHLEN are not completely correct. Despite censure on this point

I do not went to make further statements; that is because I am afraid to give

away any details of my mission in CBERURSEL.

Also, to the question of whether or not I contacted the MeS GREVES-

MUEHLEN, I want to withhold atatement.

To Interrogation:

I have already made several reports from Camp King. For this purpose,

I used the following as a cover address: "Anni SCHULZE, GREVESMEHLEN, Post

Lagernd" (IN: 1.0., goneral delivery). Concerning the contents of my report,

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDU

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 39

CONFIDENTIAL

I wish to make no other statements than those in the police staterent. Also,

concerning: my oral reports I do not wish to say any more, for the reasons

already given.

I then got my new mission from the MfS in GREVESMUCHIEN.

In this point the accused made the same statements as on Sheet 45 of the

enclosure, as far as the written-in parenthesis. These were re-read and the

accused made the following statenents concerning this:

in this point I an also unable to make further statements concerning

my directed mission in OBERURSEL. The Jobs in FUERSTENFELDBRUCKE and KOELN

WAIN, I believe, were assigned only as a cover, the real important point of

my activity was in OBERURSEL. Even when the missions were assigned to me

pointed out that I had this impression. They just shrugged their shouldere

and insisted on there nissions in FUERSTENFELDBRUCK and KUELN-WAHN, which I

believed to be completely unimportant, therefore, I was forced to carry them

out too.

These statements are correct. I withhold, for the reasons given, state-

ments concerning the contents of my reports from OBIrURSEL, By the way,

would like to remark that of course I did not write ny reports from Camp

King, but posted them in FRANKFURT/MAIN,

Under advisement concerning the police statements Sheet 20 and 21 of

the enclosures, as far as the red parenthesis:

My police statements are correct as, stated. They have just been read

to me again. I know that they may be used in court proceedings. Upon

interrogation:

EXCLAIDED FROM CITERAT

.. marint

400

9

CONFIDEN VAL

---

## Page 40

CONFIDENTIAL

kround 8 or 9 July 1960, I was in ObErUnSEl carrying out my mission.

I have raported about the conduct of thia miesion, however, as planned, I

did not return to GREVESMUKHLEN; instead, I decided once and for all to

blow, late in July 1960. I do not wish to make any statement concerning

what I did in July until I turned myself in. I did nothing else in the

intelligence field. My staterents that I was wendering indiscriminately

and practically living like a tramp are not true. I retract these statenents.

However, for personal reaone, I do not wish to say what I did during this

period.

Under advisement:

It -is really a personal reason that induces me to be silent on this

point. I assure you that there are no intelligence reasons.

ifter a certein period, I turned myself in at a German agency, because

I had already definitely deeided to take part in no more intelligence activi-

ties. Idid not believe that I had disclosed any secrets of the American in-

stallation, nuch loes any of West Gernany's state secrets in my reports. I

have made a complete confession. If I cannot decide to make further statements

concerning my mission in OBErURsEl, this is based only on the fact that I have

to be afraid that my statements will become known in the East, and that re

prisals will follow. I know that an influential man from the Anerican in-

stallation Gamp King has deserted to the Fussians.

read, approved, sigued

24899220N COPTEET

* i,

401

10

THANSLATION

CONFIDENTIAL

---

