# 104-10256-10081

## Page 1

104-10256-10081

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CABCE SE RETARIAT DIS

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

OSIEL MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

GROUP I

SECRET RACED MONTUTOMA

When Filled In)

DOMMGRADINE AMO

DRELGTTITICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX:

YES

• NO

DA INITIALS - SEEN BY

6

7

10

AT:.

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO..

X-REF TO FILE NO...

FILE RIO O RET. TO

DISSEM BY-

ACTION

PER

BRANCH O

DESTROY 51G.

INFO:

RID COPY

SHEETMAS

860

50A 3 GFIL

IS E CRE I 261218Z MAY 69 CITE BANGKOK 3055

13-28

SAIGON

INFO: DIRECTOR, (TENTANE, (SINGAPORE, (MANILA (RANGOON,) 13-4

18- 1 26 MAY 59 IN 66602 g

CHONG KONG (AIPE DJAKARTD COXTO, SEOUL, (RUALA LUNTY

REF: DIRECTOR 88114 (SENT (BANGKOK) ONLY)

13-5

WE HAVE BEEN PLAGUED FOR SOME WEEKS NOW

BY MR. MITCHELL L. WERBELL III, VICE PRESIDENT AND

DIRECTOR OF R AND D OF SIONICS, ATLANTA, GEORGIA.

WERBELL DESCRIBES HIMSELF AS A COUNTERINSURGENCY

righ

EXPERT, HAS A VARIETY OF WEAPONS TO DISPLAY, CLAIMS

TO BE A RETIRED COLONEL; AND LAST WEEK INTRODUCED

HIMSELF AT A LOCAL NIGHTCLUB AS CHIEF OF WOFIRM IN

amS. 27686

THAILAND.

20 WERBELL HAS A HISTORY OF SHOWING UP IN

TROUBLE SPOTS WHERE HE CAN MAKE A FAST BUCK. HE

IMPLIES THAT HE IS U.S. GOVT CONNECTED AND PRESENTS

A DEMONSTRATION OF A VARIETY OF EXOTIC

WEAPONS THAT NEVER FAILS TO IMPRESS. REF

DESCRIBES HIM AS AN UNSCRUPULOUS OPPORTUNIST WITH

A REPUTATION FOR LIVING BEYOND HIS MEANS.

e/151C

SECRET

12/p0

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TARIAT:

PERSON/UNIL NOTIFIED

10:

• ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

LASS LED "'-HAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET ARGUES POU PUTOMATIC

(When Filled In)

DXCLASSINICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

INDEX: " YEs. No

BY:

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO..

DISSEM BY.

ACTION

PER

X-REF TO FILE NO...

FILE RIO ORET TO

INFO:

_RID COPY

FILE. VR.

BRANCH O

18-5

PAGE 2 BANGKOK, 3055 SECRE I

3. WERBELL IS AN AMERICAN CITIZEN, BORN 1919,

SERVED IN OSS, HAS SHAVEN HEAD AND HANDLEBAR

MUSTACHE. REF ADVISES THAT FULL DETAILS OF HIS

- BACKGROUND SHOULD NOT BE PASSED IO GIAISON)SINCE

HE IS U.S. CITIZEN. HOWEVER, STATES THAT LIAISON) 24

CAN BE INFORMED, SHOULD HE APPEAR IN: YOUR AREA,

THAT HE HAS AN UNSAVORY REPUTATION, HAS NO U.S.

GOVI CONNECTIONS, AND ANY DEALINGS WITH HIM SHOULD

BE APPROACHED WITH EXTREME CAUTION.

4. FOR SAIGON: WE UNDERSTAND THAT WERBELL

RECENTLY VISITED SAIGON AND DID HIS THING WITH GEN.

ABRAMS, WHO WAS SUITABLY IMPRESSED, AND WERBELL

IS NOW SETTING UP A SNIPER TRAINING PROGRAM.

5. FILE: 201-259910

SEAREI

JING AND/OP

•ALS - SEEN BY

10

..DESTROY SIG.

8 porch 1918

phila:

SECRET

31PV

---

