# 104-10004-10143

## Page 1

1104-10004-101

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Box

8

---

## Page 2

13-00000

25605

1 June 1964

and COS HelsiNk CONCeRNiNg timetable

MEMO FOR THE RECORD

OF OSWALD'S stay iN and HoLanti

At 0900 this morning L talked with. Frank Friberg recently

returned CoS Helsink re Warren Coumission inguiry concernine

the cinetable of Dewald's stay in Finland in October 1959, includine

his deploct wich the Sover Consulate theres (Con etche Conniceton

letter of

25 My 04 ond State Cable of 2200% 64 atedcted.)

fabere save me the following intomation

Ic takes 25 minutes to drive frozche pigtre le

By 102d at would hake no wore than mibutes do

the Soviet consulates

Pansenger lists (manifests) at the S. Conchlate.th

Helsinki are retained for six months only and then are destroyed.

Mr. Robert Fulton (CIA) was U.S, consular official there at

the time.

€..:

Acopy of State's cable inquiry would do to the Helsinki

Station and they would assist in preparation of a reply.

3. Mi. Friberg agreed that it would be worthwhtle to cable the

Station concerning points not covered by State in their inquiry.

suggested changes incorporated into the cable sent to Helsinki.

Lee 1. Wigren

C/SK/CI/R

Document Number 716 - 838

for FOlA Review on

SAME AS RELEASED

DOC

- 340

RECORD COPY

1P/EDI

IP/FIS

P/PH

isO/Dcu

IP/FILES

TRAVEL PROGRAMME

•YA ABS THALTA

ALEX

PREPARE FOR FIERANG XI

FILMA

CODE ND. (2,304)

RYBAT: REST. CODE

CABLE IDEN (11):

NFD (85

FOR: FILING:

1 Gun 64

201-289248

---

