# 104-10169-10017

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10169-10017,

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Ce. - 105

2 AprIl I942

MR®

Chios, Task Force/U

Calas of Statios, declivE

Operational/ CYTOSE

SAL Vertico Bres

05

on 31 larch 1902 dibarto laricno Jarajon Grdonns, A 12:95179

born 1l Decather 1933, a bari employeo, lucas addrcaos 4901 Lll loth Ava..

no telophono, vas intorvioned.

2. Sairca Bald ho vas a LenDer of Elo, FAL and Vostico Brea ("Iho

Massa PosItion".

security forces.

sourco seld that SAt (Ealvar a Cuba) vas destroyod by Gubra

He Source sold that to (Tuarza Ants-Counteta da Isboracion) 18

vall organized, the best orcanizad boing tha forcea in plarr col flo

Province, Ho cald that in hau sures simo and countion, and 13 ca action

¿ygo croup, conspirine to provalo on uprlolay and cuiting aft crusmaice.

Elong, source was reluctant to sand any siu contact, but finally noned

D6 Bana Parajon forez an a contact non. la vald that la could arteryo bone

Filea with Parojon, and ho las told that perhops 1a the futuro sassone

vould call upon his ced introduce theacelvos ta "caicos do Loberto" end

alscuos th 10 1n furthor detall. lu corcod.

to sold that sons nonths

to tha 'FAl sont out Inleroflyd sapa pioung ulton for landing arms cod

also 1to propoada caching pitos, but ho did not inou to thou this lafarra.

...

Source cald that ho vas aloo rusodictod viti Vartico Iros, and

doscrived this orechication as volna camposod of Intolloctualo und

pratosaionals. Its mloason lo not cicer boccusa an ha doucribed it cho

at tho functiono lo to explain tho horiors of the casunlot systos to tha

mansoo by the adoption of a thira position. Vostico so aloo Intoreatod 1n

soro dubtlo approachso, such as Induatrial aloudorma and scbotazo. no

serphas1o, herover, aircaro to ba ou propicanco end la sala Vortico 10 on

The point of outaining a radio plant.

lo vas adiod 15 thio vas a "ptrato

Tad1o", but ho toplica no, that 1t nould remais on tha air so that it coura

Es hoard, linon asliod about the dilna poulena, ho sald ho was told by qi

enginoor lio lo volling on this projcot that 1t via a "Dolts Byatom Raddo".

ass thay vould not havo to do afraid of it'ine.

SE8 16 van all tha source kaou on ella dubled. (lita doon act mata songo,

Go source sald that Turtsco noods nuryaloo, ouca es linox canoras,

Dus so vould not or could not piro the soro of a Vortico contat in Habana:

do sald there/

L

RETURNTO GIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reprodupe

31BR.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

C'C1 - 205

Ho said thero 15 e Vertico contact in lilons, Cercrio (lou) end although

ho dild nos luou tho lestreno or endrasa ce Corerio, ta ves coiro to try

and Locto him. lis was crala sellaica as the "calcoa" tha sould call

on alu for this irfcacation.

06.08

To courco cald that before ho lest Cuba la rot vita scalo Carillo,

06

EVOlLO DigUA 10 1I ItJOlS a laT DESS.

0-2. Arturo 1a about 32 yearo oid, tilto, asoci (cout 150 pauia), 5'3"

tall, viito, bloci: halr and lico a lasto sustacho, lu vas forsaily tha

sandyan et the ban', but becauca of his (2 jositica ho 18 nou a san or

prostilço sna caterod to by all.

Falson La RASOCK

4/BR

---

