# 104-10215-10125

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10215-10125

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

COMPIDENTIAL.

MANO FOR BIE STUDENT FILE

FROM!: Hufus A. Morn, Jr.

11 February 10,8

Thia folier contains information on the 11 herican students that vert fron

the Moscow Youth Festival to China. The inforration was prepared for PEo CE work-

Irie nurposes. The material has not ceen

and

, carded, omi die bateriet 1s non-recor?,

should be destroyed sonetire before 1 January 1959.

•DISTRIBUTION:

hi? I for stinent file

CONFIDENT TAL

Es cory

200-8-14

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

22,857

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, FE-2 CE

SUBJECT:

File-check Results of the American Students in

China

1. Cursory file-checks have been conducted on the American students

that went from the Moscow Youth Festival to China and the results are

attached hereto.

z.

The file-checks are by no means complete, for they were conducted

only for the purpose of determining the subject's political doctrines.

Attachment: As stated above

Distribution:

1 - Chief, FB-Z GE Wattachment stadat fil

1 - 10 Div. w/attachment

2 Originator wattacharent

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SEGRET

American Student in China

A ALHANOTE, LOuis

File Check Results

Regidence - Brooklyn, New York

Passport No. 618189 issued 3/5757

Phoic

ПРЕМЬСО

Louis Alhanote, in 1954, visited the Soviet and Polish United Nations hazed

Delegation, in New York City. As of 1950, the subject was a subscriber

Teeth

to the "Daily Worker".

In August 1952, the subject was a signer of the

Nominating Petition that was circulated in behalf of Communist leader

Le kins inno

Simon W. Gerson, Representative in Congress, Thirteenth Congressional

Late 1857)

District, New York City, In 1949, the subject made application for

membership into the Young Progressives of America.

In 1951, a play

"Longitude 49" was put on by the New Playwrighters, tiic., at the

Czechoslovak House, New York City, the subject was a participant in

this play.

The subject, in 1955, was a member of the Labor Youth

Teague of New York City. (DFB-88463, 29; August 1957.)

(over)

LOUIS ALHONOTE

4/22/55

ALHONOTE, Louis

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECKET

2. Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which

toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived

in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General,

Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group.

He had the following to Bay about Louis Alhonote:

"Louis ALHONOTE, from Brooklyn, was mentally ill and had been told.

by a doctor that he was paranoic. Once in a meeting of the American group

when one of the other members disagreed with him, he dashed a glass cup

against the wall. On a second such occasion, he threw a glass cup at

Jake ROSEN, which caused Rosen to have three stitches in his chin and five

in his biceps.. This second incident was hushed up only with difficulty because

the Chinese authorities learned of it when a doctor was called. "

SECRET

ALHONOTE, Louis

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

American Student in China

NAVEDISIAN, Sahag

File Check Results

CESA

Photo AttAChED

Residence - Pawlucket, R.I.

Passport No. 472013 issued 4/24/57

a dato throt consistrom the too bad ti trat!

Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to

give the Chinese his passport stated that the subject was non-Communist.

(State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, Exam Moscow).

The following document pertains to the subject, howeter, efforts

to locate the document have been unsuccessful: DFB-88603.

3. 00-B-3093654 (FLitiwas ford,) cmos fam arodisan.

at is almost contess. (Roco from 0.0. 3als)

4. rs. 95128,680057

explaid his going to Us sures largely cleanes

5. Dim O'Carmell, a member of the grange had the following t sey show?

tuanjeet: "... not will educated: not intelligent enough i form, ser

chich that in tip lin in it am i met in th

believed to have hande

"tipo" 088-97194,23 Jagdiss.

(iver)

AVEDISIAN, Sabag

SECRET

---

## Page 6

4-100000

SECRET

Sahay Avidisian said he was not a Communist and never had been, when

questioned by the House Committee on Un-American Activities, on 21 Novem-

ber 1957. (New York Times, 22 November 1957)

SAH

AVEDISIAN

SECKET

miniti ani

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

American Student in China

& BELFRAGE, Sally 20.3-4 Oct 1936

File Check Results

Photo AHAChED

Passport No. 9728 issued 1/20/56

MaN Janumare

1. The 10 Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival,

were of the opinion that the subject was a Left Winger. (10 Div.)

2.

Sally M. Belfrage, born on 4 October 1936, is the daughter of

Cedric Hinning Belfrage. Cedric was or is the editor of the publication,

"National Guardian," with offices located at 17 Murray Street, New York

City. He was reported to be a Communist Party member in England;

served as a Soviet spy in 1942 or 1943, while he was attached to British

Intelligence in New York City; he and his wife admitted being Communists

in 1937 or 1938; he held a Communist Party membership card in Hollywood,

California, in 1937 or 1938; he has been a close associate of Soviet agents

and known Communists and Communist sympathizers in the United States

and in Europe, since 1937; he has attended and spoken at numerous Commu-

nist Party front organization functions; he has made pro-Russian state-

ments and disparaging remarks about the United States. (DFB-26627,

I May 1953)

3. Sally Belfrage's father, Cedric Belfrage, is a British subject who

was deported from the United States and now resides at 16 Talbot Square;

London, England. (DFB-90733, 27 September 1957)

4. The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts

to locate the document have been unsuccessful: DFB-88476.

(cre.)

SECRET

BELFRAGE, Sally

---

## Page 8

14-00000

- 2

5. Sally Belfrage's father, Cedric Belfrage, is a British-born magazine

writer who was deported from the United States in 1955, and is now writing

from Communist China. Komsomol Pravda on 10 September 1957 reprinted

part of an article by Belfrage from the magazine Chinese Youth. The article

echoed the Peiping line by charging the United States with holding dozens of

Chinese students and refusing them visas except for Formosa.

SALLY M. C. BELFRAGE

21/7/55

BEL

SECRET

Sally

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SECRET

American Student in China

2.0.3 - 35 MARch. 1928

R BLOCK, Morris

2.0.a. NEw TocK, NEw YoCK

File Check Results

ReaidencETT-U.SOrK

Passport No. 921617 issued 4/12/56

1. The IO Division's informants that attended the Moscow

Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was a Left Winger.

(10 Div.)

A report dated 29 October 1956, indicated that M. BLOCK,

1718 Grand Avenue, New York City, had indicated a desire to travel

It was not known whether or not he had actually

filed for a satellite visa. (DFB-73259, 19 November 1956, p. 4.)

3. Morris BLOCK, residing at 421 7th Avenue, New York,

New York, was listed as a reference by Grigory Lvovich SCHIFRIN

on his visa application in 1954. SCHIFRIN was reported to have been

linked with narcotic and diamond smuggling in 1946. (FJYA-5693,

22 March 1954.)

Morris S. BLOCH of 421 Seventh Avenue, New York City

had known Rachel BELLIN since 1935 according to a report dated 11

August 1953. Rachel BEILIN was believed to have formerly engaged

in trafficking drugs in Shanghai and been involved in Russian espionage..

As of August 1953, Rachel BELLIN was residing with her husband

Alexander, at 1566 Macombs Road, Bronx, New York. (DFB-29039,

20 August 1953.)

Morris BLOCK, bora 30 March 1920, New York, New York,

was among those on a list of persons denied security clearances pur-

Buant to Executive Order 10173 as amended, dated 12 October 1953.

It has been reported that a certain Morris BLOCK, born 30

March 1920 at New York, and his wife, Mollie BLOCK, aged 37, United

States Nationals, arrived on 16 April 1949 at Southarapton from New York

en route to Gdynia in the Polish S. S. Batory. Their destination was

believed to be Warsaw. According to a reliable informant, who travelled

BLOCK, Morris

SECRET

---

## Page 10

14-00000

- 2

with them from New York, BLOCK and his wife endeavoured to get

permission to hold a public meeting on buard during the crossing, but

when this was refused they contented themselves by holding a small

meeting in the Tourist lounge on the morning of 9 April. In the course

of this meeting both BLOCK and his wife spoke very disparagingly of

the Atlantic Pact and from the tone of their remarks, the informant

gained the impression that they were Communists.

YWELA-2326,

9 May 1949 and OSDB-16157.)

(dier.)

MRRIS BLOCK

3.26-56

BLOCK, Morris

SECRET

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

7, Morris Block invoked the Fifth Amendment against self-incrimination

when he was asked if he was a Communist by the House Committee on Un-

American Activities, on 21 November 1957. (New York Times, 22 November

SECRET

BLOCK, Morris

---

## Page 12

14-00000

6

American Student in China

2.0.3 - 6 JuNE 1937

DCC.-APARENtCE tol moKERFile Check Results

Residence

"Tienton, New Jerge'

Passport No. 454479 issued 4/15/57

517, Now 9715%, Photo Attachoe

1.

The 10 Division's informants, that attended the Moscow

Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was a Left Winger.

(IO Div.)

2. Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused

to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was instru-

mental in applying pressure to make the Americans, that did not give

up their passports at the Chinese frontier, give their passports to the

Chinese in Peking.

(State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10

September 1957, from Moscow.)

3.

Harry Irving Bloksberg, born 6 June 1937, resides in

Newark, New Jersey and is employed as an apprentice tool maker.

His parents, Gabriel and Bertha Bloksberg, were described as Com-

munist Party members. The subject is a member of the Labor

Youth League (LYL) which is a Communist organization. He attended

Camp Midvale, which is owned and operated by the Metropolitan

Recreation Association (MRA), on occasions during 1955. In 1956,

the subject was named to a committee that was organized to make

plans for the Communist MRA Youth Group. (DFB-86649, 16 July

1957.)

G92/AS.2200922-4

(over)

BLOKSBERG; Harry

SECRET

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SECRET

- 2-

4. Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which

toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived

in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General,

Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group.

He had the following to say about Harry Bloksberg:

"Harry BLOKSBERG's father pleaded the 5th Amendment in 1954 and

was subsequently thrown out of a hearing for causing a disturbance. Harry

apparently tooi. some pride in this, as he carried with him a clipping about

the incident which he read to members of the group." (Foreign Service

Dispatch, Hong Kong, number 289, 14 October 1957.)

GINSELD

(over)

ARRY TRYING BLONSE

4/0/57

BLOKSBERG, Harry

---

## Page 14

14-00000

5. Harry Bloksberg invoked the Fifth Amendment against self-incrimination

when he was asked if he was a Communist by the House Committee on Un-

American Activities, on 21 November 1957. (New York Times, 22 November

1957)

SECRET

BLOKSBERG, Harry

---

## Page 15

14-00000

SECRET

5

American Student in China

VERONSTEIN, Eugene

CIT- US.A

Residence

- New York

Phote AttAchi?

Passport No. A-757784 issued 6/28/56

File Check Results

1. The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts to

the singe ti

97444, 23 Snuary 1958.

EUGENE BRONSOCIN

6/27/560

ONSTEIN, Eugene

---

## Page 16

14-00000

7

American Student. in China

CARAWAN, Guy Hughes, Jr

File Check Results

Dhoto AHtAchED

Passport No. 43499 issued 5/8/56

1.

The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow

Festival, were of the opinion

that the subject was of questionable

character. (10 Div.)

The AP correspondent in Moscow reported that the subject

and Peggy Suger would return to the U.S.S.R. for an estensive folk-

singing tour.

(State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10

September 1957, from Moscow.)

3.

Guy Carawan, Jr. was the sponsor of a program entitled

"Call to National Student Conference for Academic Freedom of Equality

and Peace, University of Wisconsin, April 25, 26, and 27, 1952".

The subject and his wife, Noel attended camp festivals that were

sponsored by the Jewish Young Fraternalists in 1954.

The camp

festivals were held on property that belongs to the International

Workers Order.

The subject attended ancaffair that was given by

Peoples Songs in Los Angeles, on 18 February 1950.

Peoples

Songs is an organization that was organized and directed by the Los

Angeles County Communist Party.

On 8 November 1954, Peoples

Artists, Inc. a Communist front organization, gave a farewell party

for the subject.

Guy Carawan signed a petition that was addressed.

to Chief Justice Vinson requesting that the U.S. Supreme Court con-

sider the cases concerning the "Hollywood 10", (DFB-88500, 20

August 1957.)

4. Guy Carawan attended a party at the home of Bart and Edna

Van der Schelling on the night of 28. August 1953.

The persons in at-

tendance were members of the American Communist group in Mexico

City. Carawan was described as the son of wealthy parents who has

been working at a Quaker encampment some place near Mexico City.

Carawan has now decided to dedicate his life to "singing the folk songs

of the common people". (DFB-88501, 20 August 1957.)

(over)

CARAWAN, Guy Hughes, Jr.

SECRET

---

## Page 17

* SECRET

GOY HUGHES

CARAHIAN,

156

SECRET

CARAWAR, Guy Füphes, Jr

---

## Page 18

14-00000

SECRE

American

Student in China

OLIVER 1

CARAWAN, Noel

Photo AttAchin File Check Results

Residence

Angeles

Passport No. 43500 issued 5/8/56

1. Subject's full name was reported to be

Noel Oliver

CARAWAN. (DFB-88814, 21 August 1957.)

2. The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow

Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was of questionable

character.

(10 Div.)

3.

For derogatory information on the subject and her husband

Guy Hughes Carawan, Jr., see the report entitled. "CARAWAN, Guy

Hughes,

JI. ":

LIVER CARAVAN

4. 417/56

**** SECRET

AN, Noel

---

## Page 19

14-00000

SECKET

American Student in China

D. 0.3 - 24 SEpt. 1930

COHEN, Robert Carl, Pô -PhilAdElphiA, PENa

E1T- 0.5.A

Residence -

Los Angeles

Photo AttAchED

The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow

Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was anti-Communist.

(IO Div. )

552W- 2253/1

103r. 58

File Check Results

Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused

to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Com-

munist and had also refused to surrender his passport at the Chinese

frontier, but, succumbed to pressure in Peking. (State Dept. Incoming

Telegram No. 513 dated 10 September 1957, from Moscow.)

Robert Carl Cohen was born 24 September 1930, at Phila-

delphia, Pennsylvania. In 1947, the subject was reported to be re-

siding in los Angeles, California. In 1946, the subject was assigned

to the Walt Whitman Club of the American Youth for Democracy.

The subject's father is Isadore Cohen.

An Isadore Cohen, not other-

wise identified, was in April 1951, a member of the Los Angeles County

Communist Party and the President of I odge 251 of the International

Workers Order. (DFB-89875, 12 September 1957.)

The IO Division, in a cable to Tokyo and Hong Kong,, stated.

that Robert Cohen and Orville Schmidt were probably the most reliable

members of the students that were visiting China. (DIR-35428, OUT-

89863, 13 Septemjer 1957.1

CASIC DOCUMENT FILEG IN:

(over)

201

AY

ABSTRACT

DEE970Y

THDEA

CS.CO2Y

SECRET

COHEN, Robert Carl

201 - 117821

10 mar. 58

---

## Page 20

14-00000

..SECRET

5. Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which

toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived

in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General,

Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group.

He had the following to say about Robert Cohen:

"Robert COHEN was sending reports of the group's travels to NBC;

O'Connell said that he planned to write NBC a letter telling them what a poor

choice they had made. O'Connell described Cohen as intelligent but over-

bearing, and probably the most unpopular member of the group. He admitted

that he had been a pimp in San Francisco, and was rather proud of the fact

that in 1939 -- at the age of 9 -- he had been stoned while marching i. a May.

Day parade.' Steve Tyler told O'Connell that Cohen had been residing in Paris

and that herkno:n there as a "violent left-winger". O'Connell could not under-

stand the fact that Cohen at some previous time had been in the Army in

security work for the Signal Corps at Fort Monmouth." (Foreign Service

Dispatch, Hong Kong, number 289, 14 October 1957.)

6. Robert Cohen departed Pari Air France midnight 1 Dec for Idlewild

arriving morning 2 Dec. Concerned about procedure at Idlevild re passports.

Attempting to arrange to be met by suificient people to forestall a passport

incident. (Pari 0169, IN 40350), 28 Nov '57)

ROBERT. CARL. COHEN

11/1/55

COHEN, Robert Carl

201-197821

---

## Page 21

14-00000

we "early.

SECRET

(Then

filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

COHEN, Redut Carl

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

RI. FILE NO.

20X-

3. DISPAICH OR SOURCE DOC.

SYMBOL MO.

197821

UATE

-IZ W- 2233

1. SOURCE CRYPTONIN D. DATE OF INFON

00 mar.58

S- ANALYST

10- DISSEMINATED IM

18- DATE

CROSS HEFERRED TO THIS FILE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

$3.

TRANSFERBED TO

RI FILE no. 201-197821

" PERTINENT INFORMATION

Dea sermoke d and reprocessed for

201-192821 (COHEN, Rakert Carls,

330r 85à t3=

09-804

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

r0B 867 •

SECRET

17-401

---

## Page 22

14-00000

• SECRET

10

American Student in China

A COLLINS, Judy

CIT-U.SA

Residence - San Francisco.

Passport No. 270636 issued 1/9/57

File Check Results

photo AltAchED

• 1. The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival,

were of the opinion that the subject was of questionable character. (IO Div.)

• 2. The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts

it mag heart

im; macinted with the pro -Comoscan't clement en the

i Judy

JUDITH COLLINS

1956

---

## Page 23

14-00000

:, =

SECRET

11

American Student in China

(DANIELS, Ben

CIT-V.S.A.

ReBidence - Los Angeles

Passport No. 518654 issued 6/12/57

Photo AttAChED

File Check Results

1. Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to

give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Communist.

(State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

2. The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts

to locate the document have been unsuccessful: DFB-88603.

BENJAMIN MAX DANIELS

6/7/57

NIELS, Ben

---

## Page 24

14-00000

SECRET

- 2

3. Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which

toured Communist China after attending the Moscow. Youth Festival, arrived

in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957: O'Connell provided the Consulate General,

Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group. He

had the following to say about Ben Daniels:

"Ben DANIELS, who exited China through Burma, took many photographs

on the tour (see ALUSLO Hong Kong telegram to DNI, Il October 1957)."

(Foreign Service Dispatch, Hong Kong, number 289, 14 October 1957)

SEBBET

DANIELS, Ben

---

## Page 25

14-00000

Mitreet,

rx-4657-2011

, SECRET

12

American Student in China

D0.8-4 Apzil 1933

FIDERER, JerrY

P. 0B-New Tick siew KakFile Check Results

Residence T- lyn, saw Yark

Passport No. 20123 issued 4/26/56

Phats AHAChED

1.

The I0 Division's informants, that attended the Macao

Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was a Left Winger. (IO Div.)

2. Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused

to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject is far left.

(State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 September 1957,

from Moscow.)

The meeting of the Young Progressives of America that was

scheduled to meet on 5 March 1953, did not take place due to the fact

that only a few people attended; of the few that attended was one Gerald

L. Fiderer. (DFB-65050, 19 June 1956.)

4.

Gerald Lionel Fiderer, who resided at Brooklyn, New York,

was not inducted into the United States Army on 27 November 1956, be-

cause he had a schizophrenic personality. (DFB-75071, 26 December 1956.)

5.

Gerald

Lionel Fiderer was born 4 April 1933 at New York,

New York. In 1953, he was reported to have had "recurring emotional

difficulties".

He has been registered and publicly known as the General

Secretary of the Labor Youth League (LYL) Chapter at the University

of Wisconsin since 1955, and has been present at all public meetings of

the LYL Chapter that has been held in Madison since September 1955.

He was also reported as being present at an organizing committee meeting.

of the Young Progressives of America that was held in Madison in March'

1953. The subject, (apparently as of 1956) the vice-president of the LYL

at the University of Wisconsin, participated in a public debate on behalf

of the LYL on 19 April 1956, in Madison, in wbich he defended Marxism,

criticized the "War Economy" of the United States, claimed that the

elections in East Germany "are free", and claimed that reports on the

recent Communist Party Congress in the U.S. S.R. were distorted in the

United States newspapers. (DFB-70056, 20 September 1956.)

FIDERER, Jerry

SECRET

---

## Page 26

14-00000

SECRET

6.

Gerald Lionc! Federer

was dropped from the rolls of the

University of Wisconsin because of poor grades in his classes.

The

subject was in contact with Sigmund Eisenscher the State Chairman

of the Communist Party in Milwaukee.

Wiscongin. The subject ap-

parently returned to New York on 1 July 1956. (DFB-71805, 24

October 1956.).

(over)

GERALD THING

DERER:

FIDERER, Jerry

SECRET

---

## Page 27

14-00000

CANTATES LUE BEI

- 3--

SECRET

7. Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which

toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived

in Houg Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General,

Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group.

He had ike following to say about Jerry Fiderer:

"Jerry FIDERER, a chemist, is definitely a Mardst thinker, but

possibly not a Communist Party member." (Foreign Service Dispatch,

Hong Kong, number 289, 14 October 1957.)

SECRET

FIDERER, Jerry

---

## Page 28

14-00000

SECRET

13

American Student in China

GOLDSTEIN, Ninel

-I]- 0. 5.1

lesidease - Brooklyn, New Yorl

Passport No. 69190 issued 5/23/56

File Check Results

phito

AHACHED

Ninel E. Goldstein visited the Tass News Agency, New York City

on 20 March 1955. The subject resided at 2670 Colby Court, Brooklyn,

New York. She allegedly beongs to a Communist Party Youth Group in

New York City. Her father, Alfredo Henley," was identified as a Com-

munist Party member; her stepmother, Lillian Henley, was employed

at the Soviet Embassy in 1954; her aunt and uncle, Ruth and Harry Fisher,

employed with the Tass News Agency, in New Yörk City, and her

uncle, Zol Tan Deak, was descrived as a recognized Communist.

(DFB-86149,

15 August 1957.)

SECRET

SCE MATERI

---

## Page 29

STUNET,

14

American Student in China

A GOODMAN, Faye

CIT-U SA.

Residence - New York

Passport No. 473652 issued 4/23/57

Shete Attachas

File Check Results

I. No pertinent information was available on the subject.

2252202127

23, Immeay 1958:

FAXE COOTUAT

4/47/57

/ Faye

SECRET

---

## Page 30

14-00000

15

American Student in China

* GRAB, Fred

Photo AHAchEo

Resfant MAna (formerly) now Alexandria, Virginia

Passport No. 73458 issued 5/24/56

File Check Results

1. Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give

the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Communist. (State

Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

2. The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts

to locate the document have been unsuccessful: DEB. - 88472

Shetund in

i mill selit chin

it the

1 all problema; DEB:

97143

GRAB, Fred

FREDERICK D. GRAB

45/9/56

---

## Page 31

14-00000

SECRET

16

American Student in China

GRANT, Joanne

CIT-USA.

Residence - New York

Passport No. 473761 issued 4/24/57

File Check Results

Phito AHAChED

" I, Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give

the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Communist and

had also refused to surrender her passport at the Chinese frontier, but,

succumbed to pressure in Peking. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513

dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

2. The Peking CHINA YOUTH NEWS carried in its 5 Oclober 1957,

issue an article by Joanne Grant, giving her impregsion of her visit to

China. She had the following to say in her article:

"You can see the future through the Chinese people. You can ob-

tain a firm conviction that China will continuously advance forward.. As a

western visitor, nothing impressed me more than the great power of this

country. Every person in New China is very modest but has great pride;

they are united, have self-respect, and respect each other. No one can

overlook China's advance; it is to be regretted that many people do not

have the opportunity to observe it personally. I like Shanghai very mụch,

because from the way Shangbai has changed I can really understand New

China. In the old Shanghai, except for the Chinese, everyone bad special

privileges. However, everything has changed greatly. I am of the opinion

that from this,one can see the miracles which have begun in this great

country."

3. The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts

to locate the document have been unsuccessful: DFB-88603.

SECRET

GRANT, Joanne

---

## Page 32

14-00000

• SECRET

-2-

Y, Joanne Grant has written for "Rights," a pamphlet sponsored by the

Emergency Civil Liberties Committee (ECLC).

The subject was among

those invited to the ECLC "Bill of Rights" dinner that was given on

15 December 1954. In October 1953, she contacted the American Committee

For Protection of Foreign Born and in October 1956, the subject's name and

address was in possession of the Socialist Workers Party. (DFB-92684,

23 October 1957) -

GRANT, JUANNE AC

SECRET

GRANT, Joanne

---

## Page 33

14-00000

SECRET

17

American Student in China

GREENBERG, Sheila

C'IT-U., A.

Residence - New York

Photo AttacheD

Passport No. 98843 issued 6/11/56:

File Check Results

RI has a 201 file on the subject, however, there is no material

in the file.

SHEILA GREENBERG

5/11/56

ERG, Sheila

SECRET

---

## Page 34

14-00000

SECRET

- 2

z.

Sheila Greenberg Invoked the Fifth Amendment against self-incrimination

when she was asked if she was a Communist by the House Committee on Un-

American Activities, on 21 November 1957. New York Times, 22 November

SECRET

GREENBERG, Sheila

---

## Page 35

14-00000

SEURET

18

American Student in China

A HAMILTON, Betty

SIT- 0.5. A

Residence - New York

Passport No. 184522 issued 9/11/56

Photo. AMIachED

File Check Results

Shelby. Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give

the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Communist and

had also refused to surrender her passport at the Chinese frontier, but,

succumbed to pressure in Peking.

(State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513

dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts to

locate the document have been unsucçessful: DFB-886031.

3. Him l'lernell, a,

...; decided as a literal; sold en

25 pome

Communist.

Old brand

work te.

1558.

BETTY ANNAHAN

8/22/5

HAMILTON, Betty

---

## Page 36

14-00000

SE&ПЕТ

1.9

American Student in China

HOCKMAN, Sam

CIT- U.S.P.

Residence - New York

Passport No. 746706 issued 1/30/57

File Check Results

Photi AHAcKED

Shelby TUCKER, the American that went to China and refused

to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was the most ef-

fective anti-Communist in the group and that he had also refused to sur -

render his passport at the Chinese frontier, but, succumbed to pressure

in Peking.

(State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 September

1957 from Moscow.)

2.

The FBI in answer to a file check request, from the Stata.

Cepartment.regarding some of the individuals that attended the Moscow

Youth Festival, replied that their records failed to disclose any indenti-

fiable data of a subversive nature concerning Samuel E. Hockman of

Tretton, New Jersey. (DFB-88829, 21 August 1957.)

3. S. Hockman was an assistant to the director of the Jewish

The Jewish Legion

Lagion ofted to be park tree organisation. (WTTL-3908, 26 Feb 48.)

4. S. Hochman departed Pari Air France midnight 1 Dec. for Idlewild

arriving morning 2 Dec. ..Concerned about procedure at Idlewild re passports.

Atteripting arrangements to be met by sufficient people to forestall a passport

tacident. Fears contempt Congress charge, says he will not plead fifth

mendment but will refuse to give information on other China travelers.

at1: 0169, (IN 40350), 28 Nov 57)

JAMTEL EDWARD HOCHMAN

E/1/55

EMAN, Sam

---

## Page 37

SECRET

20

Aserican Student In Ching

HOLLISTER, David

CIT- U.S.A

Residence - Her ork.

Passport Ho. 211858 188ued 5/2/56

Ple Chock Results

Pheta AHAChED

1. Dauld Manship Hollister, residing In Nev Yorks Clty, was rejected

from military service on 18 September 1951, because of & sebizold person-

ality. Recorda dated Septenber 1951, Indicated that the subject had received

professional care for dementia praecox in 1950 and 1951, and thet the subject

had admitted heterosexual and horosexual experiences until about March 1951.

In 1952, the subfect was registeded with, the American Labor Party.

ine

subject's nother, Ruth Manship Ballyster, reportedly was & nember of the

LOB Angeleß Commist Party. In 1947 and 1948, the subject was & member of

the Harvard Youth for Democrecy.. The subject tres also bellered to be a

secret member of the Cosmunlit Party 10 1947. (DIB-86787, 18 July 1957.)

however, afforts

to: lonate, the document have been unauccessful.

LISTER, David

SECKET.

---

## Page 38

14-00000

SECRET.

21

American Student in China

A HOXSEY, Dean Cornelius

CIT- U.S. A

Residence - Los Angeles,

Passport No. 619885 issued 7/19/57

Phero AtlAchEd

File Check Results

The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow

Festival were of the opinion that the subject was a Left Winger. (IO Div.)

2.

Dean Hoxsey who originally applied for permission to remain

in the U.S. S.R. now states that he is eager to remain in China after his ..

interview with the American expatriates WILLS and WHITE in Peking.

Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the

Chinege his passport, stated that WILLS was "hinking of returning to

the US and that WHITE was completely brainwashed. (State Dept.

Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 September 1957, from Moscow.)

Dean Hoxsey was recruited into the Communist Party in

May 1944, and was assigned to the East Los Angeles Communist Party

Club. In August 1949, the subject advised a representative of the

Federal Bureau of Investigation, in Los Angeles, California, that he

had been reared in a home which was one of Communist influence, ab

his father, Lowell Hoxsey, had for many years been a member of the

Socialist Party and in the 1930's had joined the Communist Party.

(DFB-88557, 21 August 1957.)

DEAN CORNELIUS

JULY, 1957

HOXSEY, Dean Cornelius

---

## Page 39

14-00000

SECRET

22

American Student in China

A HYMAN. Elaine

ReadeT. Brooklyn

Photo AttAChED

Passport No. 136094 issued 7/12/56.

File: Check Results

Elaine Hyman, of 1240 Union Street, Brooklyn, New York,

was believed to be on the Teenage Labor Youth League State Board,

in August 1953. In 1944, Fay Hyman and William Hyman, parents

of the subject, were members of the Commünist Party, Thomas

Jefferson Group, Ilth A. D., Kings County, Brooklyn, New York.

Hyman, father of the subject, was a delegate for the Com-

Willial party, Ilth A. D., to the United Labor and People'a Con-

for May Day, that was held in New York City, an 26 March

(DFB-88471, 20 August 1957.)

ELAINE HYMAN

6/21/56

aine

SECRET

---

## Page 40

14-00000

SECRET

23

American Student In China

KIDDER, Noel Arthur

CIT- U.S. A.

Residence - Los AngeLes

Passport No. 113046 1a8ued 6/30/56

File Check Results

Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give.

the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject 1s a Communist.

(State

Dept. Incoming Telegren Fo. 513 dated 10 Sept 51,. from Moscow)

•20

Noel Arthur Klader, during an Interview ulth a representative of

the Counter Intelligence Corps, U. S. Axy, In April 1956, stated that he

Houl? refuse to sign a Loyalty Oath 1f he vere inducted into the armed

BErVICEB.

Kidder attended functions that vere sponsored by the los Angeles..:

Committee for the Protection of Foreign Born In 1956.

He attended meetings

of the los Angeles County Labor Youth League (LYL) In 1956 and 1957.. He

was elected Vice President of the los Angeles County LYL In January. 195%

He attended the Callfornia State LYl Conference that was held in February

1951. In December 1956 he was reported to have stated that a violent class

struggle and & revolution vere certain to occur. A subscription to the

"Dally People's Horla" was maintained in the nome of Kidder In November 1956.

• (DFB-81949, 24 Apr11 57)

=За.

Hoel Arthur Kiader 18 narried to Susan Foyà Pallock. (DFB-8327),

75: May 57)

NOL KIDDER

6/13/56

Noel Arthur

---

## Page 41

14-00000

SECRET

24

American Student 1n China

TUDER, Susan Pollock

CLIT-U.SA.

Residence - Los Angeles.

Passport Io. 126723 issued 7/3/56

File Check Regulto

Photo AttAChED

Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give

the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject is a Commulst. (State

Dept. Incontes Telezran No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

Sue Pallock, of 1700 Abernarle Road, Brooklyn, N. I.. was men-

thoned as being one of Gustave Gilbert's contacts."

(No further Information

Tas given as to who Gilbert was or what was meant by sue bedng a contacti.

(DFB-14187, 13 DeC 51)

Arthur Kidder, see the report entitled

SUSAN POLLOCK KIDDER

6/13/56

Sibil

KUDE

Susan Pollock

---

## Page 42

14-00000

SECRET

25

AmerICan Student in China

KUZIZ, Plaine

CIT-U.S1

Residence - Los Angeles

Pasaport No. 135646 188usd 7/12/56

Pheti AHAchED

File Check Results

1. The ID Divlalon's Informants, that attended the Moscow Festival,

Here of the opinion that the subject vas of questionable character.

D1718100)

(IO

2.

shelby Tucker, the Anerican that vant to China and refused to give

the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject 1s a probable Commist.

(state Department Incoming Talegren No, 513 dated 10 September 195%, from

Мовсон.)

3.

The following docuent pertains to the subject, sorever, efforta

to locate the doomant have bsen meuccessf:l:

LFB-86248.

ELAINE KUSNITZ

6-21-52

** SECRET

Z, #laine

---

## Page 43

14-00000

SECRET

26

American Student in China

KANDAY, Nina

CIT.-U.S.A

Photo SHAChED

Residence - Nese York

Passport No. 488104 issued 6/7/57

File Check Results

As of October 1956, Nina Serrano Landau and her husband, Saul

Landau, were students at the University of Wisconsin. Mr. and Mrs.

Landau have been active in the Student Peace Center at the University

of Wisconsin. This organization was registered at the University as

being a social-action type of organization which was affiliated with the

American Friends Service Committee.

In its 1957 registration, the

Studert Peace Center listed Nina Landau as secretary. In 1955, Saul

Landau

attended two public meetings that were sponsored by the Labor

Youth League at the

University of Wisconsin. Saul Landau was identi-

fied as having visited the Soviet Embassy,

Washington, D. C., in March

1956

IDFB-88459. 20 August 1957.).

NINA LANDAU

6/6/52

NDAU, Nima

SECRET

---

## Page 44

14-00000

'SECRET

Americen Student in China

LARB, Dick

ET-USA

Residence - LoB Angeles

Passport No. 908260 188te8 4/6/56

Photo AHAchED

The Check Results

1. The 8R Division brlafed the subject prior to his attendance at

the foscow Festival. (DFB-89325, 30 August 1957.)

2. Shelby Tucker, the American that vent to china and refused to

Ive the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject vas non-commist

State Departient Incoming Telegren fo. 513 dated 10 Septenber 1957, fros

3. The falloiring documento pertain to the subject, borever,

to locate the documents hava been unsucceesiul:

and DFB-88603.

all -193201, D73-86248,

RICHARD RENO LANE

3/26/56

---

## Page 45

14-00000

i SECRET

31

American Student In China

MARCH, WIllIam Jemes

SIT -U.S.4.

Residence - Los Angeles

Passport No. 2lö611 lasued 10/8/56

D.0.3-8 MAy

1939

P. 2.8 * ChicAGE,

Tilinois

File Check Results

Photo AHAChED.

1. WLUl1am James MARCH was born on 8 May 1939 1a Chicago, Ill1no1s.

His parents are Ferbert MARCH and Jaue V. MARCE.

The subject attended a

meeting of the Labor Youth League (LI) 1a 1955, as a prospective member.

In February and Harch 1957, he attended a menting of the los Ingeles County

LYL, and vas also 1n attendance at a Calliornia State LYI, Conference.

Sub-

ject!'s mother was a member of the Central Section, Moraula Sadth Division,;

Los Angeles County Communist Party 1n October 1955: (DFB-88466; 20 Auge

1957)

Informstion has been received that William James March left New

York 8 June 1957, for Europe to attend the Youth Festival In Moscow during

July and August, 1957. March's parents were listed as father Herbert MARCH,

With allases Herbert Fink and Harry Martin; and nother Jane V. March. (DFB-

86867, 19 July 1957)

3.

W1?1em James March vas 188ued Los Angeles Series Passport 1218571

on 10/8/56. In his application for this passport, the subject stated he

Intended to depart from the United States on 12/5/56 for a proposed length

of stay abroad of two months in order to visit France, Italy and West Germany

for the purpose of visiting relatives aod seeing Italy. Subject answered

¿ to questions

POLLIAM S. MARC

10-4-56

MARCH, William James

---

## Page 46

14-00000

SECRET

28

American Stuient In China

Marox, Versinta Loe (Ginger

SIT-USA

Residence - San Brancisce

Photo AHAChED

Passport NO. A-759615 1BEued 7/12/56

le Check Results

The Il Division's Informants, that attended the Moscow Festival,

vere of the opiaion that the subject was of questionable character.

DiT.)

Shelby Tucker, the Arierican that went to China and refused to gove

the Chinese uis passport, stated that the subject was non-Coummist. (State

Dept. Incoming Telegrem ño. 573 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

3. Virgania Lee Mattox was born on 10 October 1937, at los Angeles,

California. On the subject's application for & passport she stated that

she was not a member of the Commist Party and, the had never been member

of the Party, (DFB-85650, 28 June 5T)

4. In November 1955, VIrginia Mattox attended a meetlag of the Call-

fornia Labor Youth League (IYI) State Board meeting that was held In Los

Angeles, California. In 1955, Ginger Mattox was the chairman of the Franklin

D. Roosevalt Teen-Age Club of the San Francisco County IlL. On 16 Aprll 1956,

VIrgania Mattox attended a lecture on the 20th Congress of the Commist

Party of the Soviet Unicn that was gaven by Willian Schelderman the Chair-

men of the 13th District Commulat Party Of the U. S. A. (DEB-82103, 26 April 957)

VIRGINIA LEE MATTOR

895

Lee

---

## Page 47

14-00000

SECRET

kaortoon Stalent 1a Chana

Bec. - ThEcloiAn

NOT EL

CIT-V.3.A

Residenca -Bantee

Passposit F0. 12792, 188191 5/21/57

File Chock Besulte

Pheto AttAChED

?. Shelby Fucher, the Amarteen that tont to ciles and sufused to give

the cilnese b1n paseyost, stated that the subjaot tas instrumantal in eplyo

Ins pressure to baba the Anuicens (that did not give up thods jassports at

tho Canaso irontles) eiro tuadi passporte to tro Chanase 11 Poldago (Basta

3o The Roverund Werren E. NekkilA of Sto Jen's Church, Rosinary, Hass.,

Eu saentailed as an activo particini in a plebet llio sponsorca by the

Germint Party during the ntrike at the Bethlehen Staal Copary, Bostis, 1r

otto 195y (Dr3-28535, 30 Jar 53) :

7.

To Deso of ReY. HasTen F. MAKKiRA tas saig those on a l1st cono

tadned 10 an artiele entitled "penaltles los Finlag AlaIn U. B. IlbErais."

s the Dolly Fordus for 30 Orto 1919. Inis artlelo set forth that sinco the

leven Cornet loaders had boen foud guilty, a treat nuabor of Americal

church londons had spalen out seinst the verdiot af gullty. (DB-889, 19

Jas. 1950, pags 136)

§ Subfect reportedly accopted position as ABeletant at a Church 1

rotos, London, ingland and 18 exparted to renadn them tho yours. Infor

marts adrieed that one Harren MCKlallA, via a spoacor of tha lational Contes.:

enos de American Carmitten for Protection of Foralgn Bora, Dacember 1954 and

Deserber 19353 nasa appared on card at Pittsburgh CIVIl Mehta Congrees,

Febrassy, 1956,' subjest sttended the wasting of the CITll Ilbertles Coltte

/ SECRET

MCKENNA, Rev. Warren

tiat

---

## Page 48

14-00000

I SECRET

"6.

229 HarTEn MCKENFA V3S ON a Ilst ol dalegates to the Booond Horla

PeRce Coogress that vas hald lụ Horsay iran 16 to 23 oveRtes 1950. (HICA-

890, 80-54896, 11 Jen, 1957)

2992,

The editore and publishers of this publication are Reverend Harren H. MeRKaNA

and Reverend Robert NUIR, both associated with the Masocchusetts Action

Cosmittos for Peace. The instant Last of thie publiention festares the

Stockhalm Peace Pledgu and the adrena wideh Reverend Joseph FISICHER of CE

bridge, Basercirusetts, gave st the llnter Stadiun at Ostrave, Crechoslovallo,

on 16 August 1950, this spesch also farared the stockhalm Peace Pledge.

(173-6285, 22 FoV. 1950)

8. Ina Boaton Obote, & Bostos netspayer, on 5 Foveaber 1948, asrslod

en articlo entitled "Boston Group Plans Halelse for 'Red Dean'".

110le furaiahed Infamation that a exony of prozineat Bostonians had joined

Into a spocial "Corattes of Heloony" for the Very Reverand Forlott J0H130,

Bostian dean of Centertury Cathalral, to mas to vialt at Boston alter being

refused a vile to enter the cotaty the pravious year.

Tha artiale continues; "from, as the Rei Dean,' DI. ELILETT till

SpeR et Jordan Isll, Gainsborough St., Lovember 16 at 8 pos" ine article

quoted Reverend Huren H. MckkillA, the Minieter of St. Jam's Episcopal.

Church, Bt Rosury, Vansachulatte, as laying, Dean iSRY me refused a

Visa by the State Loparismt in 1947, bocene hits invitation come froll tho

Batlonal Cornell of Amrioan-Sorlet Priondnidy.

ire State" Departuent Later

rocanted and persitted the tiea": (15D-1468), 5 Jon, 1952, enc. 2)

9. Reverend Hesten MakKiTA, & dalegate to the and Horld Pesos Congreas

In Harset, Palend, In Hoveiber, 1950, testified that Iris C. OFFO attended

that Congress, presushlyia delegate fran sone other groups, and that he and

tri. 01x0 had the nasse camdttes participation, inich he described as "the

dean to datine segression." Tole see witzens testifled that upon

thads retura fran farset, Poland, both he and lire. O110 spoise at a nesting

sponsored by the linute Howen for Pesos.

Barisamlet".

MCKENNA, Rev. Warren

SECRET

=33.

---

## Page 49

14-00000

SECKET:

-3

-

amnes and subveralve howvitles in Hl.l. and testified on 1/6/54 an

3//5% that she was not and had not been a seaber of the Cosmaist Party.

she rariod to Elve further Infossation on the ground of privilesa agrinst

Bell nortesation. Inarunt dontfied subject as a lorear nunher of the

sass. inuta Hans for Ponds. Another Inormant royarted subject upole as

the Her England Repressatative of the Anilesn Cordttso for Protostion Of

Foredga Bora at the lational Laglalativa Claranos of this organiestion

that tas hall 1n lastlagtos, D. Co. on 27-28 Harah 1955. Asother Ilorant

Miestifleà subjoot as bedag in attendence at a nasting of the Chicago Housa

Sos peace that vas held on 12/6/5t. (199-55296, 29 Jaly 1955)

10. Jai dona 37 meno to they, Contad alrisin, 10.0,

from Boston fice, on dus kennis beter on nitries cott

Honey s Filesu.

10--

73

11:.2)

(over)

MCKENNA,

WARREN HENRY

(OCT 1950).

NNA, Rev. Warren

---

## Page 50

14-00000

SECRET

Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American Youth group which

toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived

in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General,

Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group. He

bad the following to say about McKenna:

"Reverend Warren McKENNA, a 39-year-old Anglican minister, has

spent the last year or so in London. He has a socialist viewpoint, but is

neither a clear not a fast thinker. O'Connell commented that he sometimes

had too much to drink and may have said some things he otherwise might not

have." (Foreign Service Dispatch, Hong Kong, number 289, 14 October 1957.)

McKENNA, Rev. Warren

SECRET

---

## Page 51

14-00000

....

SECRET

30

American Student In China

MESCOLI, Sandra Florence

File Check Results

Photo AttAchED

1. No Record 12 RI.

she Steld Toker

sifil 201-146.40%)

out the sa

SANDRA MECOS

PORSCOfLI, Sandra

---

## Page 52

14-00000

•I SECRET

32

Anericen Student In Chine

MOYER, LATTY (EL1 LArTY

C.I.T.- U.S. A.

Residence - New York

Photo AttAchED

Passport 10. 922074. 188ved 4/13/56

File Check Results

Shelby Tucker, the Anerican that went to China and reflised to give

the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Coumunist. (State

Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, Iron Moscow)

2. Larry Moyer, a reported Coummipt. Party member,

attended a meeting

on 6 January 1950, at the Independent Progressive Party (IPP) Headquarters

at San Diego.

The meeting was held by the mendera of the IPP Housing Cou-

IIttee for the purpose of malang plans for their participation. in the public

Rent De-Contral Meeting that was to be sponsored by the Clty of San: Diego on

25 January 1950. (DFB-23541, 9 Jenuary 1953)

The regular seeting of the Coummist Party Morgan Full Club was

held at the home of Ill Larry Moyer on the evening of 14 March 1948. (121e

meeting was probably held in San Diego, Callfornia.) El1 Larry Moyer, a

Commist Party member was among the members of the Independent Progres-

sive Party that maintained a picket line at the entrance to the Chanber of

Comerce AuditorIun, In September 1948; when the California Un-American

Actlvitles Coumttee Hearings were being held. (DFB-19758, 22 July 52)

(ore?)

SECRET

MOYER, Larry (Eli Larry)

---

## Page 53

14-00000

SECRET

- 2

4. Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which

toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived

in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957.. O'Connell provided the Consulate General,

Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group. He

had the following to say about Larry Moyer:

"Larry MOYER, age 32, was reporting on the trip for United Press.

O'Connell was Moyer's roommate in Moscow, and had learned of many of

Moyer's past experiences before O'Connell had indicated where he stood

politically. Moyer had been a pimp in Hawaii in 1941, working through the

photograph shops where a serviceman could get his picture taken with a hula

garl.

He had also been afriend of Ada B. Jackson, whom O'Connell described

as "a well-known pink in New York"; Moyer had known her through American

Labor Party meetings there. O'Connell said that Moyer was crude, but by

no means

stupid." (Foreign Service Dispatch, Hong Kong, number 289,

14 October 1957.)

LARRY MOYER

2:23.56

MOYER, Larry (Eli Larry)

---

## Page 54

• 4-00000

1219036,0

SECRET

33

American Student In China

H socia, tomaine (Generiere)

CIT- U:SA

Residence -

Detroit

Passport Hio. 117018 issued 6/22/56

$. 0.B-7 0ck,1937

P.O. 3- PolANO

Fle Check Results

The IO DIVIBiOn's Informants, that attended the Moscou Festival,

vere of the opinion that the sub ject vas of questiorable character..

Divo)

2. Genevive loraine Norackd was residing at Hamtranck, Michigan and

tras employed by the "Clos Ludowy" (People's Voice) & Cammist-I1ne Polish-

English language weekly newspaper. She attended meetings spousored by the

CIVIl Rights Congress In 1951, and the Convention of the Progressive Party.

at. Chicago in 1952.

She attended local and national functions of the "Clos

'Ludowy" In 1952.

She served as Recording Secretary of the Youth Comittee

co Elect Peace Candlästes in 1952, and was cempalge manager for Ben Kocel

tho was an active member of the Commmist Party In 1951, and the Progressive

Party candidate for lichigan State Senator In the November 1952 elections.

The subject represented the American Committee for Protection of the Foreign

Born at the

"Glos Ludory" NatIonal Press Conference in Cleveland, Ohio 1r

1952. She was & member of the Civll Llbertles Committee at the University

of Michigan in 1952, and the International Horsers Order In 1950.

the

subject was elected to the temporary Executive Comittee of the nevly Porned

Youth Club, Communist Party, U. S. A. District 7, on 4 December 1956, and

was described that date as & nember of the Bast Side Section of the Commu-

the Rosenberg Case, Michigan Artists Bureau, CIvil Ilbertles Camittee,

Michigan Youth Committee for Peace, Freedon of Press Association of Mighigen,

American Slay Congress, and the National Negro Labor Council. (DFB-79256,

14 March 1957)

3.

Genevive Ioraine Nowackd was born on 7 October 1932, in Paland

and In 1956, she vas residing in Detroit, Michigan with her father and

1 SECRET

NOWICKI, Lorraine (Genevieve)

---

## Page 55

" SECRET

Genevive's mother Stella who was born In Poland and naturalized at

Detrolt, Michigan travelled to Poland la 1956, and returned to the United

States in that same year. Stella was a member of the International Workers

Order, Lodge Fo. 3503, and vas in good standing. Stella was also reported

to have attended many receptions with the representatives of the Polish

Embassy. (DFB-6TTTT, 13 August 1956)

4. Miss Lorraine Nowackl was the Campaign Manager for Ben Kocel, the

candidate for nembership in the State Leglelative representation of Michl-

Lorralne and Ben obtained over 1, 800 sigastures ilthin less than 5

hours under the Progressive Party's petition demanding that the City Councll

11 Detroit, extend the rent control. (DFB-27456, 15 June 53)

5. dancine jasuri

Lee visiato to

parison in (herce

GREVIEVE NONACKI

Nar 1956

QWICKI, Lorraine (Geneirieve

---

## Page 56

14-00000

SECRET

34

American Student in China

O'CONNELL, Dan (Daniel Myles)

CIT- V.SA

Residence - Chicago, Blinois

Passport No. 594311 issued 6/25/57

File Check Results

1.

The 1O Division's informants, that attended the Moscow

Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was anti-Communist.

(10 Div. )

2.

Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused

to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Com

munist and had also refused to surrender his passport at the Chinese

frontier, but, succumbed to pressure in Peking.

(State Department

Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 September 1957 from Moscow.)

3.

Dan O'Connell was listed as the Publicity Director of the

United States Youth Festival Committee, as of May 1957. (DFB-

84120, 16 May 1957.)

1. amenges

(Over)

O'CONNELL, Dan (Daniel Myles)

SECRET

---

## Page 57

14-00000

SECRET

•-2

5.

Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which

toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived

in Họng Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General,

Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group.

O'Connell said he saw Father Wagner in prison in Shanghai; he did not pro-

vide the Consulate General with more information about Father. Wagner than

appeared in the press. He was quite cooperative with the Consulate General

(be turned over his passport) and was most anti-Communist in public and

private statements. He described the greater part of the American group

which attended the October l celebrations in Peiping as being politically and

morally corrupt, and stated that only three members of the group, including

himself, made any effort to defend the U.S. against Chinese Communist

critics. The shortness of O'Connell's stay in Hong Kong prevented spending

much time with him, but he stated that he would be happy to answer further

questions after he returns to Chicago. (Foreign Service Dispatch, Hong Kong,

number 289, 14 October 1957.)

+: 11 513-95135, 986,37, isangstr Wund Nigles O'Conell, Glumall Strid the

the Carica delgatin, a Cut the leano

Tyleridore it cly monto phe Clina Girue that paracas the 11S.

SECRET

O'CONNELL Dan (Daniel Myles)

---

## Page 58

14-00000

SECRET

42

American Student in China

ROSER, Jake

CIT-USA.

Residence - New York

ile Check Results

Photo AHAChED

The IO DivIsion's Informants, that attended the Moscou Festival,.

vere of the opinion that the subject vas a Left Winger. (ID Div.)

2.

Shelby Tucker, the American that went to Chins and refused to give

the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was Instrumental 1n arily-

Ing pressure to make the Americans, that did not gave up their passports at

the Chinese frontler, give their passports to the Chinese in Peling.

lucker

2180 feels that the subject 1s a most dangerous leftist. (State Dept. In-

coming Telegram to: 513 dated 10 Sept 51, Bran Moscow)

On 15 November 1952, 1t was reported that Jack and Mildred Rosen,

Indicated to be members of the Chicago Branch of the Soclalist Workers

Party, resided at 1839 Touby Avenue, Chicago. (DFB-16666, 24 March 1952)

4. In March 1948, 1t vas reported that Jack RoBeR, who vas residing

at 314 Harbor Road, Hunters Point Housing Project, San Francisco, and a

part-time employee at Sonotone, Inc., 450 Sutter Street, Sen Francisco, and

& student at stanford University, was a member of the Theodore Dreiser Aub

of the Commmist Party. At a meeting of the Professional Section functlon-

aJIEs On 19 March 1948, and in & discussion by those present on the respan-

sibility of & Communist Party member in the event of war betreen the United

drafted like any other individual and then do what I coula.

Jack Rosen was on a list of Cormnist Perty members of reported sympathizers

known to possess or who hate been issued licenses for the operation of

radiotelegraph, radiotelephone or amsteur "hem"' apparatus; tho have received

radio trainingi or who have been or nou are employed 1n allied fields where

their employment, talent, or knowledge could be utilized for clandestine

radio comications. (D8B-5016, 14 August 1950)

(ever?"

SECRET

ROSEN, Jake

---

## Page 59

14-011100

"ERRET

- 2=

5.

JacoD forsT was a ntber of "The Campus" and the "Marzost Die-

cunaion Club," both argenisations are student groups st the City College

of Her fort, thero Rosen vas 1a attendance as a stident..

(D7B-90299,

19 sept 57)

6. To "HeY jort linas" 16849 Of 30 JUly 1957, coutalned an article

by "ax Prenkel," regarding the Horld Youth Pestival then In Deadon at

Mascon, USh, rulch stated in part - "Iscob Rosen, 636 West 17412 Street,

Manhattan, a jealor at city Collega want itteout aleep to keep things

noving. He carriod the lalted States flat at yesterday's opening, airping

It 1n saluto to flits 8. Ibranchor and other Soviet digaltaries, at the

e

JACOB ROSEN

5/11/56

SECRET:

ROSEN, Jake

Er"s

---

## Page 60

14-00000

SECRET

-3 -

7.

Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which

toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived

in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General,

Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group.

He had the following to say about Jake Rosen:

"Jake ROSEN, one of the organizers of the group is "solidly leftist''.

His father had been a labor leader in New York." (Foreign Service Dispatch,

Hong Kong, number 289, 14 October 1957.)

CHICA

APPLIES

Pilgore Seized, Youth Mores

to Re-enter City College

Orie of the forty-two young

Americans Who Ignored & State

Department, ban

to

travel

Communist

China

will neek to

re enter City College next se

i meate.

The student, Jacob Rosen, re

turied to New York last week

immigration

officials.

He said!

yesterday that he had taken a

sir.-montn leave of absence from

¡City College to attend & jouth

Y, festival in Moscow and to travel

in Burope. Air. Rosen, a 19-year-

old jurior,

went to

China tol-

le bung the festival and visited

¡relatives in Israel before returni!

cre-thro".

8. 2el envious SCK4A2D.

4. Dr1-95661; 26 NoU57, contring info en Rosend Communist connections and U.sty to

de 1es012 and Chira, the was the organigan of the Gor. He balped propore the regust that sued Downer

savanal wanders if the grons crusherme Poser

da a Communist 68.

elicy to the Messians (Thate Gladlit do Moyer, O'Connell, Tuetr, Coppedo, i

Mumped).

SECRET

ROSEN, Jake

---

## Page 61

14-00000

SECRET

43

American Student in China

SCHMIDT, Orville

Residence Train, South D.

File Check Results

The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival,

were of the opinion that the subject was anti-Communist. (IO Div.)

2. The following document pertains to the sulject, however, efforts

to locate the document have been unsuccessful: DFB-88603.

SECRET

SCHMIDT, Orville

---

## Page 62

14:00000

SECRET

35

American Student in China

SCHWARTZ, Larry

File Check Results

Resid 17 - U.Sa,

tica, Michigan

Passport No. 920030 issued 4/12/56. Photo AttAchED

The IO Division's informants, thet attended the Moscow Festival,

were of the opinion that the subject was anti-Communist. (I0 Div.)

over

LAWRENCE RUSSELL SCHWARTZ

3/27/56

ESCRET

SCHWARTZ, Larry

---

## Page 63

14-00000

- 2

SEGRET

2. Lawrence Schwartz, who recently arrived in Hong Kong, from his

tour in Communist China, had the following to say about his observations

of Communist China: "Communism is run by fanatics.. What they are

trying to do cannot be done. People cannot submit to long periods of regi-

mentation. Regimentation is frightening. In the states I visited, it was

entirely out of hand." (New York Times, 21 Nov. 57)

SCHWARTZ, LaTTY

SECRET

---

## Page 64

14-00000

INCOMING TELEGRAM

Department of State

UNCLASSIFIED

32

Action

Info

RMR

INR

EUR

FE

IES

SCA

PPT

IRC

• ,.

CIA

Control:

Rec'd:

12435

November 21, 1957

8:30 p.m.

FROM: Hong Kong

T0: Secretary of State

NO:

865, November 21

SENT DEPARIMENT 865, REPEATED INFORMATION KOBE 2, XOKOHAMA 3.

Hong Kong unknown until after departure.

DRUMRIGHT

UMT/1

UNCLASSIFIED

UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS

COPY IS PROHIBITED.

SCHWARTZ, Lawrence

---

## Page 65

14-00000

+451Z14:0191

SECRET

36

American Student in China

I SEEGER, PegEY (Margaret)

File Check Results

Residence -

CIT-N.S.A

108 Angeles, California Photo AHAChED

Passport No. 729373 io-ued 7/11/55

1. The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow

Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was of questionable

character. (IO Div. )

2. The AP correspondent in Moscow reported that the subject

and Guy CARAWAN would return to the U.S.S.R. for an extensive

folk-singing tour. (State Department Incoming Telegram No. 513

dated 10 September 1957, from Moscow.)

3.

There is no pertinent file information concerning Margaret

SEEBER however, the following information is furnished for your

information.

Charles Louis SEEGER, Jr. and Ruth Crawford SEEGER,

parents of subject reside at 7 West Kirke Street, Chevy Chase 15,

Maryland.

A report dated May 1952 states that Charles SEEGER was

a member of the Communist Party in approximately 1936 and 1937.

Ruth CaPwford SEEGER was reported to have been friendly or acgu-:

ainted with serious individuals during the 1940's who were Communist

Party members, some of whom were also identified as being involved

in a Soviet espionage ring which operated in Washington, D. C. and

New York during the early 1940's.

Charles SEEGER admitted Communist Party membership

from 1936 to 1939 in a discussion group of the Communist Party.

He stated that the group payed no dues and had no membership cards.

He also admitted that he joined a similar Communist Party discussion

group consisting of three people in the latter part of 1941 and early

1942. This group, according to SEEGER met very irregularly and he

ceased association with c Communist Party about 1943. He denied

membership in the Communist Party at the time he was interviewed

in August 1953.

SEEGER, Peggy (Margaret)

SECRET

---

## Page 66

4-00000

SECRET

Margaret SEEGER's half brother Peter SEEGER is reported

to have been a member of the Communist Party in 1945.

10n3

Peter SEEGER is reported to have been one of the organizers

of People's Songs, Inc. in 1946. He served as editor, executive chair-

man, and national director prior to the dissolution of the company in

1949. People's Songs, Inc. was cited as a Communist front which was in-

corporated January 31, 1946, by the California Committee on Un-American

Activities in its 1948 report.

Peter SEEGER is also reported to have been a member of the

WEAVERS, a musical quartet who entertained at "Closed meetings" of

Communist Party functionaries and have appeared before numerous pro-

Communist. and Communist-front groups,

KONHW-4402, 20 February

1956 from

various FBI reports.)

MARGARET SEEGER

12/13/55

SEEGER, Peggy (Margaret)

SECRET

---

## Page 67

4-00000

SECPET

37

American Student in China

TUCKER, Sheiby Jr. (Jamee)

IT-V.S. A

esidence - Pass Christian, Miase Photo AttAChE!

Passport No. 615485 issued 3/29/57

File Check Results

1. The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival,

were of the opinion that the subject was anti-Communist. (IO Div.)

2. Shelby Tucker appeared at the American Embassy in Moscow, on

9 September 1957, and was interviewed in regards to his trip to China.

(Intervierers name not given). The interviewer stated that he waa con-

vinced from his talk with Tucker, both before the festival and now, that

he was a sincere and loyal if misguided American and that his refusal to

give up his passport to the Chinese was not a trick. (State Dept. Telegram

No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

fr 3: The FBI in answer to a file-check request, from the State Depart-

ment regarding some of the individuals that attended the Moscow Youth

estival, replied that their records failed to disclose any identifiable data

@ a subversive nature concerning James T. Tucker, Jr. (DFB-88829,

2l August 57)

, lead gendeide, in.

JAMES

R, Shelby, Jr. (James)

---

## Page 68

AT POUTI

Decurity Classipcasion

FOREIGN SERVICE DESPATCH

DO NOT TYPE IN THIS SPACE

FROM

TO .

REF

For Depr.

Vee Only

SUBJECT:

803

DESP. NO.

CiS

THR DEPARTMENI OF STATE, WASHINGTON.

Embtel 1887

SCA. 2!

REC'E

10/9

C:4-12 215111-10

Inbagay Doobriefing of sholly Tuckor, Norioon Studont Who

Visitod

Corruunist China

vialtod shunty Ticion, an Aordean atudont at Oxford Univornity,

in company with sovoral othor stadonte

at tho conclusion of tho loscow Youth lustiml.

Aftor his arrivid

In Poline ho vas roquostod by tie chinono camunint authoritios to

surronder his passport.

1sco lucior refunod to do this and as a

result ma dopartod from china Into the Soviot Union.

le roturned

to London on Septorbor 12 and during hin discussions with the

Embaady voluntoored to proparo a atatonont of his imprcasiona of

Comanist China basod on his notos. This statonont Is transnitted

as anclose one.

shortly aftor Mr. lucker arrivod in London ho vag up roached

by lifo magazino for his story, wilch 1t in underatood ho sold to

tho editors for a sun of $500.00.

A copy. of this story, which

was written by a Lifo staff vitor bagod on ir. luckor's ronarla

1s transmitted as enclosuro tro. "ho limbassy undorstands that

Life nagazine is not now plaining to publish this story.

Thore 11 transmittod an onclosuro threo a copy of lis. luckor's

affidavit rogarding tho uso uf his passport in Concunist China.

This affidavit has alroady boon transnittod to the Deporthont under

separate covor in connection with lir. luolo's passport difficultios

but 1s included here for the Departuent's convanionço.

It sas the suprossion of the do-briofin; officers that tr.

Tuoker mas sincoro in his dosiro to furnish Information ubich

mignt bo of use to the Unitod Statos Governont.

Unfortunately,

howevor, ir. lucier seons to have vory little baciaground In.

Chinese affairs and his ousorvationg,

both written and orul, appear

to contain littlo signifieunt polltical or oconomic inCorration.

Mir. Tuoker

POLLE P

GOT THIAT

INFORMATION COPY

Retain la divisional dies or destroy in accordance with securily regulallans.

TUCKER, Shelby

---

## Page 69

14-00000

(Classificion)

Page

But No 000

Desp. Motbassy London

From

China®

lt. fucior toois a nurbor oi photograin during 113 stay in

ono print of occi mill do fomarcod to tho Doportiont

undor soparato covor nion thoy have boon roccived by the labajoy.

For the Ambassadors

Rochoroad Hd

sooond Sacrotary of Enbassy

Approvods

Writeri

Fawin We Hortin

Firat socrotary of Babasuy

EncloBuress

1,

3.

Statonont of Improssions of Comaniat Chino

Life magazine story

Tuoker'a affidayit

0a8 Talpol, Hong Kong

---

## Page 70

4-00000

SECRET

38

American Student In China

TYLER, Patty (Patricla)

CIT-U.S.4

ReBidence - Her. York

Passport No. 1 Issued 6/12/56

Elle Check Results

Photo AttAchED

Io No Record RI.

2. Shelby Tucker, the American that went to china and refused to give

the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Cormmist.

(state.

Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

3, see steme Tyler.

" some connell told 0.0. That burs. Tyles antervice

PATRICIA GROLL TYLER

6/12/56

ity (Patricia)

---

## Page 71

14-00000

SECRET•

39

American Student in China

TYLER, Steve

CII-N.S.A

LeBidence - New Yarl

Passport No. 17 issued 10/22/56

PhotO ANAChED

File Check Results

I. Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the

Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Communist.

(State

Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow.)

STEPHEN TYLER

10/22/56

TYLER, Steve

---

## Page 72

4-00000

SECRET

= 2.

2. Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which

toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived

in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General,

Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group.

He had the following to say about the Tylers:

"Steve and Patty TYLER (ref. Consulate General telegram to Department

560, repeated Moscow 8, Praguc 1, of September 27, 1957) have been travel-

ing in Europe for about a year and a half. Steve is 23. Neither are college

graduates. O'Connell felt that Patty was the smarter of the two, but that

both were quite sound in their thinking, and he was convinced of their anti-

Communist sentiments.

O'Connell said that both of Steve's parenis had

been in some sort of trouble for leftist or Communist activity in the U.S.,

and that Steve feared that this would unwarrantably be held against him in

spite of his violent reaction against his upbringing. O'Connell said that

he had never known a case where the views of father and son were father

apart." (Foreign Service Dispatch Hong Kong, number 289, 14 October 1957.)

3. Stegalen Tighis Atten hamnd, 126s intercle Came, was a meal f the

indecle Chat; Commanit Party, and in the Parbail chard, he was dies licenton cand

contes the Excretire Committer.

iticken's mother, Zulyn,

enter the sitat tamitter f th

Americon

was in @pail ,948.0

Istan Party: (850-94348 177005;

SECRET

TYLER, Steve

---

## Page 73

14-00000

/ SECRET

40

American Student In China

LILIANSON, BOb (Robert Dawson)

DiB - 14 MAy 1938

PUB. - ClEVElAND ChiLle Check Resulte

CIT-USA

Residence - New York

Photo AttAcheD

Passport No. 502806 188ued 5/9/57

The ID Division's Informants that attended the Moscow Festival

vare of the opinion that the subject was a Left Winger. (IO Div.)

2.

On 1l Oct. 1955, Confider Jal Informant I-l, who has furnished

reliable information In the past, reported he had received Information

that Robert WILLIAMSON, born 14 May 1938, a siudent from Cleveland, Oblo

haà arrived In Paris, Frence on 2 Sept. 1955 fron Prague, Czechoslovakla.

Informant sald his Information Indicated this Inalvidual had been In

Poland.

he stated he vas not sure, but in all probability this person was

& member of a south club that had met 1n Warsaw, Poland. (DFB-59303,

22 Jar, 2956-08 00-2521ill, l aljet, (di)

WILITAISON, Bob - Represented the Ochemist League of Great BrI-

tain st

100v8

ther

On Congress at Ison In April:1948. (French press, RI 20-4-10-

:.14

ROBERT DAWSON WILLTANSON,

5/1/57

SECRETS:

*Bob (Robert

Dawson)

---

## Page 74

14-00000

SECRET

-2-

4, Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which

toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived

in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General,

Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group.

He had the following to say about Williamson::

"Earl (I believe O'Connell called him Bob) WILLIAMSON's father was

deported from the U.S. for Communist activities and is now in London.

(See Consulate General despatch No. 199 of September 17, 1957). "

(Foreign Service Dispatch, Hong Kong, number 289, 14 October 195%.)

é. Judasriena 884-60110

b. she 'Camell, a meate f the grang, had the fellang to arg

stant the subject:.

mey pro-bimmunit; elfinitily

Guilin with and sprin

gee canningly be the

"орв-.

971 44.23 omary 1958-

WILLIAMSON, Bob (Robert Dawson)

SECRET

Hira

---

## Page 75

14-00000

41

American Student in China

WILLIAMSON, Earl

C]I-USA

Residence - Pleasant Hilla Calif. / London

Passport No.

577624 issued 6/10/57

File Check Resultsi

Photo AttAchED

1. The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival,

were of the opinion that the subject was of questionable character. (IO Div.)

Z. Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to

give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject is a most dangerous

leftist. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from

Moscow)

3. The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts

to locate the document have been unsuccessful: DFB-86248.

.

Trusures.

Phan 'Camell, a means the grang, lindt the More; I may

maine ; definitel

+088-91144 23111958.

DEARL R. MILLIAMSON

4/10/57

IMSON

---

## Page 76

14-00000

FRI doc

25 Nov. 57 (Boston)

Re. Richard James Medalie

Butile - 100-476846

Boston Fiela Office - 100-32145

THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENT.

BLOCK, MORRIS

---

