# 104-10216-10073

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10216-10073.

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

19/10

DISPATCH

S-E-C-A-B-T

11400

POSEU

TO

chier of station, Quito

PROCESSING

ACON

MoRE: ++ 1136S-366

1.5J,0

7, хто:

Chief of Base, Quayaquil

INFO

FIROAR

HIACGRAETIRS LESA

CAR NICE MACARIES

AESIRACT

Chef, WH

Report of PBFRIME Citizen on Connectione with Ecuadorean Coverpent

RETION REQUIRED REFEREMCES

Please coument on Subject and his statements

- other in an

The following paragrophe are quoted fror an ODENVI report resulting

fran an Intortley with Identity. The addressoes are requested to coment on

the Subject's statements and to send to Headquarters Information concoming the

Subject's activities in Ecuador baaring on his statements.

A. On August 29, 1960, Identity was intertiowed by ODENVY at kis

request. Identity relatad that ha had just returned fron a trip to Rcuador

where ba had been offered a job to represent that country as an agent in

PBPRIME and be was seriously considering thie offer. While in Ecuador, ba

had conferred with four individuals who he believed would run the new

goverment which was to be sworn into office on August 31, 1960. These

persons were identified as follows: Jaime Rebot Velasco, Ministor of

Development, Podro J. Menendes Gilbert, Mayor of Guayaquil, Ecuador;

Lulls Noboa, an Ecuadarean businessman; and Enrique Ponce Inque, a Senator

and partner of Noboa.

Bo According to Idertity, the nau president of Ecuador, Jose Maria

Velasco Ibarra, has been elected to that office for the fourth time and

15 an aged person.

The above-listed Individuals will control aid operate

the Coverrment of Icuador with the approval of Ibarra. As a result of

kis conferring with the above persons, Identity esprassed the belier that

Habot will be the strong in the goveranent.

He described these Individuals

as patriotic with a sincere desire to batter the plight of the conson

man in Ecuador. Identity stated that all of than are definitely pro

PBPRIME and Hobot said that all Identity has to do is tell bin what PBPPIME

CONTINUED

UNDER SEPARATE COVER

Distribations

2 - Galto

1 - Gaayaquil

"CROSS REFERENCE TO

INITIAL

DATE TYPED

16 8011950

5 Oct 1960

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND MURMBER

8-Б-C-В-B-T

DifICER

Havendenha 11

1BQH-2393

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUUSER

01-41581

8 p913 190 00 5.

ORIGINATING

TYPIST

se1

COORDINATING

EXT.

1 3847

DATE

OFFICER'S MAVE

ASWIEniOWSkI ?..).

RI/AN

N/TY

RI/FI

FORM

3€0

53

OFFICE SYMBOL

NH/L/E

Urue stoc

AC/NH/1

UAiE

5087

USE PREVIOUS EDITION REPLICES FORMIGIRO FAMIM MAY BI USEE

(40)

RELEASING

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-77

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIERATIOR,

SBCR-BT

DITATEM STADO AND NS

H804-2393

dasires and the Ecuadorean loverinent will do Its bast to cosporato

C. Trantity pas alga. tell 1h2" Ibs Cottituent of Ecuador has con-

menced negotiations ulth an olectronica fira 1n Dallas, Jezas, bellevod

by Identity to be tha Continental Bleatronica Cospany, for tha construction

of a 50,000 kIlovati radio statica In Guayaquil, Elde slation u11l bo

used to combat antigovermant propaganda bansed into Icuador from Cuba.

Hobot felt that PERIHE could make usa of this radio station. Identity

8old Nobot that ho bellered this could ba arranged.

Do It l8 tha opinion of Identity that this is a golden opportunity

fOS PBPRIME tO COSTENCe COOperatIOn With & nEU gOVErNMent in & prO-PERINE.

Is stated that the Ecuadoroan Governant sould be nest willing

fOr HUBARK to utilize the abors radio atation, horover, it would necessio

taro HUBARE's paylag half of tha espensas far 1ta construction. Identity

Has advised thas tha infomation ba bad gávea ODINi sould be furnished

2O SUBARA pursuant to bia requeet. la desired to be costactad vithin a

pariod of ten days 1f ALBARE 18 interasted in the Information ha had to

offer.

to further action concerning this matter till bo undertaken by

Zo ODILVY has previoualy reportod at length on tha Identity, a pabllo

rolations counsel.

Identity reglatered as s pirchasing agant for various

turacus of tha Bapablle of Mlearagas on 15 Aor1l 1955s en 22 July 1958, be

ragistared as an agent of the faraoll Miltary Industries, uhich uns contrulled

by tha governant of Irsal.

The Idantity appears to be an international businasuen with spactal

inisrast 1n IatIn Aerican Countries.

He baa praviously frequeatly contacted

FBPRIME agencies on subjects ha thougit appropriato to bring to thule alton.

t10n. A cursary chock of lls 201 file revealed no darogatory Infomation.

Furthas infomation can be supplied 11 the field so roquaste.

RiD OF DISPATCH

escopy

FOOM

1057 530

USE PREYIQUS EDITION

BERLACIS FORMS

51 28 51 234 AND SiT

CLASSiFICATION

TRAGE NO.

---

