# 104-10216-10148

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10216-10148

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH|

7=

Chlas, BpocLal AfPALTO StaSs

QASSATICATION

ASIO

PROCESSINO

ACTION

MARIZO PON INTES

DO UNSTATA GETSUZI

DELY QUALITRO

MASQUATIS IT

FRONG

Cuses as Starlos, SWAVE

8J35207

TranSmIttal al OpOTEXIONal PLRE 108 ANTINAK VII

ACTOR REQUILDS RODENCED

AarJas Begultod: BeTussi AFIROPRI

BAS ATANCES

B. Lat- 20136,

8I JaLy 1803

On PLan ANTHA F, 81

49g 1003

D.

0964-19725,

Op PLAN ANTHINK VI, 18 HEY 1963

SHA- 18130,

28 DaemboT 1965

san on 7 februery and for calleration en li deuruary.

RHO BRAFTOR ObJectiTEs d8 th18 operasie.

Proral te garacated

DIAPASCE

AZZ&CHANES

Op Plas (9 073) - 80

& - CRAS V/SEES.

"f.i

DATI TYREO

83 Jan 66

MRAA 18708

28662

DATE CASTATOTHD

---

## Page 2

14-00000

nion

OPERATIONAL PLAN

DESENIED

CRYPTONYM

AXTRUNK VII

2. RSPERENCES

UFGA-9312, ANTRUNE Operational Plas, 1 11 10 1963

B. UFGA-10136, Amendment of ANTRUNK Operational Plas,

31 July 1963

C. UFGA-10933, Operational Plan - ANTRUNK V, 31 August

1963

D.

UFGA-12725, Operational Plas - ANTRUNX VI, 37 Noven

ber 1963

B.

UFGA-13138,

Amendment to ANTRUNK VI Operational Plan,

18 Decenber 1963

3.

BACKGROUND

Operation ALTRUNK III/IV which was mounted in August 1963 was

successful in that the two principals of the team, AlICE-27

and AMICE-14,

vere shis to contact and to recruit two princi

pal agents and several other action agents to lay the ground-

work for the MHAPRON objectives of the AUTRUNK operation.

One

of the two internal P/A's, AHTRUNI-9, vas oxIlltrated with the

fOur-nan ANTRUNK infiltration dean for training and operational

discussions in the SAVE area. In early September,

AUTRUNE-g

Was r0-1nf1ltrated Into PBRUMEN 1n OperatIOn AHTRUNK V, the

sase operation which exfiltrated AlFAUNAS -1, -3,

-13 and -34.

In Iate October AMICE-27 vas separated fION the clandostine

part of the AUTRUNK operation.

The original objoctives of

Operation ANTRUNK VI,

postponed Iron Decenber 1963 to January

1964, were to revitalize and ro-direct the efforts of the two

Internal P/A's toward their prinary task, 1.0. to spot and re

cruit among high level figures who are dissatisfiod with the

Castro regine.

In late December, the scope of this m1s810n v28

altered by the receipt of a commercial telegram lu open codo

fIOn ANTRUNK-9 indicating that he was in grave danger and wished

to bs exfiltrated.

The twin objectives of OperatiOn ANTRUNK VI

then became:

first, to exfiltrate AlTRUNi-9 and, this accOm

plished, for AHICE-14 to proceed to Havana for hiB task of ro

channelling ANTRUNX-10's responsibilities.

The exfiltration of

AHTRUNK-9, who brought with hin his entire family consisting of

wife,

brother-in-law,

and three sall calldren, was accomplished

on 9

January 1964.

The unexpected presence of

AMTRUNK- 9'B

family, coupler' with reports of increased vigilance in the 1n91l-

tration area, forced aliCi-l4 to exfiltrate the sane night olth-

out attempting to accomplish the second part of his a1881on.

BEGBET

DES RYEAT®

2/98

---

## Page 3

14-00000

- 2'

RYBAT

GuarantD

OBJECRIVES

A.

To re-establish personal contact with AHTRUNk-10 and to

sccure his full cooperation in spotting dissidents within

the higher lovels of the military for the purpose of or-

ganizing a couspiracy against fidel Castro.

B.. To obtain from ANTRUNK-10 Operational IDIOTAAtION On

other MHAPRON recruitnent targets.

C. To attempt the recruitrent of PAR Captain end Cubana

pilot Jose Alberto SEMIDEY Isalgue, a frequent porsonal

pilot for fidel and faul Castro and an influential 11guro

in civilian and military aviation.

D. Through the AlTRUNK ratline, to transport to Havans and

cache a clandestine radio set for the luture use of an

Infiltrated AYTRUNK radio operator. At the same ilro, to

explore with ANTP.UNK-10 and other internal contacts the

possibility of salehousing and supporting a radio oporator

1n Havana.

5. TASKS

A.

B.

=. .

.D.

The AMTRUNK Intermediate Craft will be towed by the KUBARK

mother craft to the DRi at coordinates

221668, Ads Sheet

4085 IV (23" 14' 00" N and 80° 47' 00" W, H. 0. 2624).

The ANTRUNK IC will then proceed to the vicinity of coor-

dinates 133511, AHS 4085 III. At this point, ANICH 14 800/05

ANTRUNK-7 w1ll make contact-with either Oscar DIAZ Jabiola

Garcia or his son Antonio DIAZ Torres in Casualidad

(17654795, AUS 4085 III). These two individuals are kaoul-

edgable of the fact that

the AXTRunks nay return to the in

filtration area although they do not know aven the approxi

mato date.

Oscar DIAZ and his son Antonio are prepared to

activate the ratline consisting of three different taxis, to

MOVe AMICE-14 and AUTRUNK-13 into the Havana area.

AXTRUNK-7

and -16,

the team guides, and AkAGREE-1, the radio operator,

will remain with the IC in the mangroves in the vicialty of

the infiltration area until the return of AlIce-la and

AMTRUNK- 15-

Once in Havana, AlICE-14 and AKTRUNk-13 Istend to split up

and seek refuge in different safehouses.

They will maintain

contact with each other, homover.

AMICE-14's primary task vis-a-vis ANTRUNK-10 18 to cenest

the recruituent of ANTRUNK-10 and to obtain his full coopera-

tIon to work toward tHAPRON objectives.

In addition,

AHICE-14

*111 teach AMTRUNK-10 an ONVI systen and leave & receiver with

AHTRUNK-10. AHICE-14 alSO IntendS tO gITO ANTRUNE-iO a reVIeW

SCRE SENSILED

RYBA)

---

## Page 4

14-00000

ECRET RYBAI

- 3 -

E.

In the principles of secret writing.

Secondary tasks to be accomplished with AHTRUNK-10 are:

(1) To debrief hin on his activities since AHICE 14

recruited him in August 1963.

(2)

To collect operational InOIMatiOn On Other DOBBI-

blo rocrultaent targets

(3) To explore the possibilities of acconnodating and

supporting an. infiltrated radio operator.

F. ANTRUNK-13 will attempt the recruitnent of ose Alberte

SEMIDEY Isalgue, a close friend of AMTRUNK-13'6 10r 18

years

and a first cousin of AMICE-14.

The following 15

a short blograpbical sketch of SEMiDlY:

age 37-38 years old.

Born in Katanzas, the son of

Brig. Gen. Jose SEMIDEY, ex-Comptroller of the National *

Army and veteran of the Spanish-American War. SaHiDaY

studied for one year at Purdue University,

Indians.

He and AMTRUNX-13 graduated ION the second class of

ANACRA Pilot Training School In 1942.

SEMIDEY flew for

ExpreSO Aereo Inter-Americano and Cuba Aeropostal for

about 1l years before he became Interventor of Adainis-

trator for tue laitor company after the fevolution.

After

Cuba Acropostal was absorbed into Cubana, SEMIDEY hold

various positions

of importance in Cubana.

He also holds

the rank of Captain in the Rebel Air Force and reportedly

has nado reconnaissance flights and black flights carrying

arms and/or agents to and fron other Latin American

countries.

SEMIDEY has a close friendship with victor

PINA Cardoso, the Director of Civil Aviation, and 18 J0.

portadly close to Raul CASTRO for hon he 18 a Iroquent

personal pilot.

Because of the close former friendship

between AUTRUNK-13 and SEMIDEY and because of reports

fIOn ALICE-14'8 fanily which indicate that SEMIDEY has

become disenchanted with the Castro regime, both ASTRUNE-13

and AMICE-14 consider SEMIDEY a prime candidato fOr ta-

crustment.

.:G.

II SEXIDEY should be out of the country on a ilying tIll

it the time of infiltration, AMTRUNK-13 will attempt to

set up contact with Commandante Rene de lO8 SANTOS PORCe,

who 1s reportodly stationed in Las Villas Province with

a unit of

"Luche Contra Bandidos",

an anti-counterrevolu

tionary force.

ANTRUNK-13 and de lOS SANTOS aro Irlends

from boyhood and, for a perlod of 6 or 7 years,.

de 108

SANTOS worked ag

an apprentice plumber for ANTRUd- 13's

136200

SECRET

•CITIZED

DVRAT

---

## Page 5

4-00000

3*1*

SECRET

• - 4 .

DESENSITIZED

father and lived in their hone. ANTRUNX-13 and de 108

SANTOS also worked together in the 26th of July under-

ground is Havana.

i. To return through the ratline to the 1n11l/exf1l arga.

Recognition signals will be established with ANTRUNK-?

and -16 and ANAGREE-l who rill be waiting with the IC

In the sangroves in the vicinity of the lagoon at coor

dinates 129498, ANS 4085 III.

в.

TIMETABLE

The scheduled date for the Infiltration of the ANTRUNK team

st the DRP 1s 8200 hours, ? February 1964..

Tpo exfiltration

of the live team members with the ANTRUNK IC and rendezvous

with the nother craft at the DPP 1s 2355 hours, 17 February,

vith an alternate on 18 February.

It extiltration is not

successful on either of these dates, the radio operator will

be in contact with the base and contingent plans for axfil-

tration can be set up through this mediun.

AXTRUNK PERSONNEL

A.

See references

: 1or biographical infornation on AMICE-14

and ANTRUNK-7.

3.

AMTRUNK-13

ALTRUNK-13 1s a 12-year-old Cuban citizen who has been s'!

connercial airline pilot for most of his life.

He is &

sigh school graduate.

In early 1959, AMTEUNK-13 wag

naned Interventor of "Aerovias Q", one of the major Cuban

airlines.

He defected in December 1960 whilo still in

that post.

He 1s a native of Havana who was activo in the

26th of July underground in that city from early 1957.

While later in exile in the United States, AMTRUNK-13 sado

two clandestine flights into the Sierra Maestras during

the war against Batista, the last bringing Provisional

President Manual URRUTIA Lleo from Venezuela far h18 11s8t

meeting with Fidel Castro in December 1958.

C.

ANAGREE-1, Radio Operator

AMAGRES-1 1s & 33-year-old Cuban citizen who has two .college

degrees, in educatirl and in Journalisn.

He is native to

the province in which the infil/exfil area 18 located.

Until his departure from Cuba in August 1981;

; AMAGREE-1 128

& municipal official in Matanzas Province and vas active in

the propaganda section of the 30th of November Movement.

AMAGREE-1 began his association with KUBARK in April 1963

as a radio operator traines.

As 1n the CREe Of ANTRUNK-13,

this 18 b1s first operational mission.

..,

62052

.."

SECRET

ESENSITIZED

AUnAT

---

## Page 6

14-00000

-5 .

RYB

D. ANTRUNK-16, Guide

AHTRUNA-16 18 & A1-year-old singlo Cuban Citizen Who, se

a commercial fishernan,

lived and worked in the 1n11ll

exfil area all of bis 11l0.

He participated in Operation

AHTRUNK VI 1D December 1963 and bla up-tadate brouledgo

of the 1011l/exfil areafron which he fled in lato October

1963, proved devaluable on thIs alBsiOn. inALe De vas

3t111 1n Cuba, AHTRUNK-•6 WAS & ITUBted COntaCI fOr LAC

ANTRUNKe on both Operation III/IV and V.

COXMUNICATIONS

Filaary.

?88-501 sith special signal plan uith continuous guard.

channel.

This equipient will renain tith the AlTaUNa IC

and will not be carried into Havana.

?.', Bo Altornates.

• (1) OWVZ

ALICE-14 WIlL CRITY & RR-44 rACOITer WIth apPrOPriAtO

signal plan on the trip into lavans.

• (3)

AMICE-1A, AHTRUNK-13 and AMAGRÈE-1 V111 All LATO 10

their possession a S/M systen with indiestors, sateriale

and accornodation addresses in the JulAVE stoa.

c..

CaBo OLLICOr Challenge

To be used to deteraine whether of not tha radio operatos,

AMAGRRE-1, 18 being controlled by & hostile force.

C/0:

"Diganos al los barcos do patrulla estar equipados con

radar y arnas pesadas".

("Toll us 11 the patrol boate aro

equipped with radar and heavy armament"). Radio Operator,

1f free from hostile control, will reply: "En Cuba no bay

culebras vonenosas".

(In CUbE thOrO BIO DO DOLBOROUS.

Bakes) .

Any other response to this question abion the i

radio operator might givo rould indicate hostile control.

9. COVER.

The entire infil/exfiltration using the IC will bo black.

During the trip to Havana, AMICE-ld and AlTRUNá-1s mill devise

their own cover stories to iit the individual situation,

AlL.

five agents will be provided with false documentation.

BBCBST

«YBAT

•FESENSiTIZED

---

## Page 7

4-00000

SECRET

PYRAT"

BEENSIlIZED

10. PINANCES

AHICE-LL and AHTRUNK-13 #111

each take 02,000.00 into Eavana.

11. CO. TROL

Control over the live nenbers of the ANTRUNK teas takos the

•105m of providing or donying then the whererataal, both

financial and material, to engago 10 alasdestise operation

agalnst the Castro regime.

72. COUNITHENTS

No commitnents have been nade to any nember be the tean other

than a broad connitnont to continue to pay thair salaries in

the event they

are captured and to continue to provide support

j.09 thelf ¿eatile Los a reasonable portod on tige in the event

13.

SECURITY

Both AMICE-14 and AKAGREE-1 Lavo beau granted al's:

The other

three team sembers, AUTRUNI-7,

.-13 and -16, have bees granted

POA'S.. All five have been loPLutteRod.

14. TRAINING

A. AMICE 14

The earlier training of AlICi-l4 has been supplesentod with

three additional weeks of tradecraft training and he has

BInCe reCeIVed IOVION IIAINiNG 1I VOAPODS S1I1A8, aNTItinO,

OiVL, and S/M.

ANTRUNK-13

1=05%.

Prior to dispatch of Operation ANTRUNK VII,: AHTRUNK-1S 0112

have received the following training:

(1) Three weeks of tradecraft tralning

/ (2)

(3)

(4)

One weet of survival training

One week of PH training accenting sep and compass

and weapons f1r1ng

(5) Three half-day sessions 1s S/W

SECRET

RESTLE

lindaid

SEE DUDAT

---

## Page 8

14-00000

-

"SIASTED

C. AMAGREEI

AMAGREE-l has recoived the sama training aB AlTRUE 13

above plus basic radio operator training valch includod

the use of mediun speed communications gear.

AKAGARE- 1.

prior todispatch time, will have received tralning 1D &

spocial signal plas vita continuous guard chaadol.

• Do

ANTRUNK-Y

Since ANTRUNK-?'s primary function ca the ATTRUNK toas

1s as a coastal guido, his formal training has been

necessarily linlted.. He has received extensive peritine

and teapons training and three days of Instruction do

basic tradocralt principles.

Bo AXTRUNK-16 :

This agent '8 fUnCtIOn On the ANTRUNX tORN 18 GIBILAI tO

that of ANTRUNK-7.

He will have rocoivod Pl and DarItIM

tralning prlos to dispatch.

15. DAMAGE REPORT

See Attachment A

16.

EQUIPLENT LIST

See Attachment B

T.."

siti

initiate...

Amen TILE

DVRAT

---

## Page 9

4-00000

SECRET RYL ATTACHINT A

DAKAGE RAPSENSITIZED.

A.

The danage report for AMICE-14 and ANTRUNK-T rEnainS the same

as was transmitted in Attachment A to Reference D alta tho

addition of Rudolph #. SOSPINE as "Jack".

Barehousos and Training Areas Exposed to MYRUS- 19:

Safehouse #216

MarItime Iralning Sito

PITIDE RADGA

Survival Training 81to

C.

KUBARK PerSORApl Exposed to ANTRUNI-13:

ISTIng N. PEGGINS 28

"Joe HebsteI"

Reuben A. HANNULA aS

"Fred Folson"

Rudolph W. SOSPINE as

"Jack"

Andrew S. PARMERS aS

"Angel Martin", tralning Instructor

Stuart Y. KAPRIDNO aB

"Dewey"

Alton T. PIRNACK 25

"Larry"

Pletcher K. THINK 83

"HarTy"

Paul V. MENDECINO aS

*Ted"

Wilfred R.

XYEAFSY 88

"Peto"

Floyd &. RUSANO! SKI as

Keith D. MINETT &B

Paul I. NAPOLILLI AS

•"JіД"

"Paul"

LoritEs operator

D.

Agent PersOnnel Exposed to AXTRUNK-13:

ANICE-27 by true naso

AMICE-LA by trUe naNO

24442 74

AMAGREEI aS "MariO Ranirez"

AKARA-1 ag "Antonio Garcia"

AMTRUNK-7 as "Carlos Menendez"

ANTRUNK-8 As "TOmas Rodriguez"

ANTRUNK-9 28 "JOse Lopez"

AMTRUNK-16 as "Juan Gonzalez"

AMPAL- 1 RB "JOO"

AMSKILI-1 by training allas

ANSHING-2 by tIa1D1ng 811a5

Captain and CIeN Of "NEPTUNE"

.

Barehouses and Training Areas Exposed tO AHAGREE,

Safehouse #174

Safehouse 11218

Maritime training site

Survival training site

F1IIng XEnge

ВЕСВІТ

PLANST

---

## Page 10

14-00000

= .

SIGHST

-2=

RYDA.

F. KUBARK Personnel Exposed to AHAGRES-I:

Irving N. PEGGINS as

Reuben A. HANULA aS

Rudolph W. SOSPINE 88

Andrew S. PARVERS aS

Daniel V. GUSSOW &8

Hunphrey O. EDDERY as

Stuart V. KAPRIDNO as

Alton T. PIRNACK 29

Flotcher X. THENE &8

Paul V. HENDECINO as.

WIlfred R. KNEAPSY 88

Floyd H. RUSANOWSKI as

Paul I. NAPOLILLI aS

G. Agent Personnel Exposed to AHAGREE- 1:

AMPANIC-14 aB

ALPAL1 23

"Joe webster"

"Fred"

"Jack""

"Angel Martin"

"B111"

"Sk1"

"Doway"

"Larry"

"Harry"

reted"

"Poto"

"Jack"

"Paul"

"Enrique"

"Joe"!

AXSKILm] by tralning al1a8

ASHING 2

ALLABEL 1 88

AMTRUNK-7 aS

AMTRUKK-8 as

AHTRUNK-9 as

AXTRUNK-16 as

• DiSONICi as

AMHINT-48 88

"Тату"

"Carlos benendez,

"Tomas Rodriguez,

"Jose Lopez"

"JUaD GODZE162"

"Juan Sanchez"

"Paco GonzaleZ"

AMLITAINT-1 by true name

ANICE-14

: AMARA-1

Captain and CIeN Of "NEPTUNE"

Safehouses and TIaIning ATERs Exposed to AHTRUNK-16:

Safebouse #104

Safehouse #216

Maritine Training Site

•Firing Range

I.

KUBARK Personnel Exposed to ANTRUNK-16:

Irving N. PEGGINS 28

"Joe"

Reuben A. KANNULA a5

"Fred"

Stuart V. KAPRIDNO as

"Dewey"

Alton T. PIRNACK as

"Larry"

Wilfred F. KNEAFSY as

"Pete"

Keith D. WINETT 28

"B111"

tralning Instructos

' LEFLUTTER operator

• tr210108 Instructor

training inetructor

• tra1n1se lostructor

' ICELUTTER operator

SBCRET

DESE SINIZED"

RYRAT

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

-3 .

..AF

J. Agent Personnel Exposed to AMTRUNK-16:

AMICE-14 by true first name and training allas

AMTRUNK-T by true name

ASTRUNK-8 by true name

AMTRUNK-9 as "Jose Lopez".

AMTRUNE-13 as "Maxino"

AMAGREE-1 a8 "Hario"

AMAKA-1 as "Antonio"

ALLABELL as nTerTy"

Captain and Crew of "NEPTUNE"

• 331

Main

SECRET

DESEHSITIZED

DVDAT

---

## Page 12

14-00000

cárs.

SECRET RYBA! ATTACRMENT B

EQUIPHENT LIST

DESENSITICU

F1vo-san 1ní11tration tean (2 1nf1ltroes, 2 guldes and Iadop)

•. Material to be Cached:

• 1 8I-18 Medlum Speed Conmunications Gear

Personal Heapons and Equipment

5 BOlgIRA BrOVRiag 9 i. DIStOLÉ

- 8• 8 H3 8HG8

3. 8 PAL 7.82, Autosatlc R1fles

:.A. 200 Rounds D sn. Asso

• 5.

£00 Rounds 45 Cal Ammo

.

• в..

900 Rounds 7.62 Anno

?. '12 Magazinos 10I 9 sn. Anno

'8.: 10 hugazinos Iur 15 Cal dainô

9.: 15 MagazInOS IOr T.62 AmFC

20.. 2 Sten Anno Carsler8

. 11. 2 BAR Amno CarrIeIE

рс..

12- 5 Pistol Belts

19. .,8. Belt Holstera SOr 8 su. PlatOLa.

14. 5 Pi. Suspenders

•'4 CanteeRs #/CUp and coTos

959

252

18.. 1 Entrenching T0Ol

17. 1 Hacheto u/scabbard

18....

§ Trench or Bowlo Knives v/acabbarde

19.

.L PT. B1n0CUlAI8

20.

5 811v8 Compassos

MiGaRrr"

to ing.

dirteoi"ot

88CBBT

DESENS.TIZED

Mavstei:

sdaà.

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SECRET

-2 -

1BA7

DESENSITIZED

21. 5 UDT-typo Watches

22. 5 Plastic Haterproof Flashlights

23:

5 Backpacks

24• 20 Hatorproof Baga

25. 5 Suiss Pocket Enlves

28. S Zippo LIghters.

27:

? Netascopes

28. 5 Penlights

?29.

10 Plastic or Bubber End Capa fOI 45 Cal SHO Lagizines

30. 8 Hand Grenades

C. Bationg

•1. 12 Black Concentrated Rat1on8

2.

20 Ciatlons (1 box - 3 asais)

Tự 2 Th.

30 :.

Assorted Cans Fruit, Meat, Boans, 9to

4. Assorted Packages Rico, Dry Beans, Coffeo, oto:

e5." *100 Bouillon Cubes

6.

6 Packages Tropical Chocolate Bare

Di Medical Supplies

3E0 06-51n

1 Corpsman's Firet Ald Iit with Korphine Syrottes sad

coneine 11n.netad container

2.. 5 Individual.First Ald K1t8

-200 Coricidin P1lls

.40

100 APC Tablets.

5.

100 Water Purification Tableta

16. : 100 VItarin Tablota

100 AcrOnyCIn TabletE

23206

8B CRET DESENSITLED

DYRAT

---

## Page 14

14-00000

stengono

BAT

3

-

E. Clothiag

DECINSITIZEO

1. 5 Sets Fatigue Un1forms, HBT ShIrts and TOUBerS

2. 5 Fatigue Caps

• 3. 5 Civilian Sport 8h15t8

sioni

A. 5 PTB CIVIlIRO ITOUSECO

S PT. C101112n 84008

6. . 5 PT. Juap Boots

7. 5 Lesther Belta

8. 15 T-Sh1rts

;. in.

9. 15 Pr. Undershorts

10.. 15 PT. 8ockB

11. E PT. Light GlOTes

12. 5 setg Poul Heather dubbor Dullorad

13.

5 Berets

I6. 3 Green POnchoE

15.. S PI. Insulated Undertoar

16. 5 P16ld Jackets

1:.F: Communications Gear

1 BR-RA' ROCOIVOT (IOS OUVI)

1' RS-502 8/81gia1 Ples (continuous guard Chenzol)

G. Secret liriting Materlalg

1. 3 8859010or Piale osta Estra Carbons and Brera Viale

I. Internodiato Craft

do:

BECRET

INTANT

---

## Page 15

14-00000

SECRET

-4.

2.

2 75 hp Connercial Outboaras u/Tool XIt

3. T Fiberglass Outboard Fuel Tanks, Capacity 13 Gal. Each

8 HorIzOntal Tanks, 81z0. 12} $ 264 x 127"

pastery top:

I Vertical Tank, 81ze 137 & 264 = 1Ö1

5 Flotation CushiORS

•S. 2 AlI Mattresses

6.

Extra Propellers and Drive, Shear and Cotter Ping 105

both Connercial Outboards

5 Black UDT-tyPO LIIA PTASeIVOS&

8. 1 PiTe ExtinguiBhOr (IoT GaSOlIne FITOS)

9." 1 12-2b. Anchor

10.

(or 3 feet of 3/4 10ch PlaStIo Taking)

11.

2 Oars, Length 10 seot

i 13. 2 Hoodes Push Poles; Longth 12 feet, Diazetes 21"

4 ,23.: 1 Plastso Balling Bucket, 1 90öt deep et

I4...: 2 5-Gal10n PlestIo JerTyCaDs (10x Fater)

10.

8 Extra Spark Pluge (4 for each Comercial Outboard)

16.

3 Rolla, Non-Shiny Plastic TaDo

17.

50 It. finch Nylon Rope

28.

200 It. Parachuto Cord

"19. 1 Snall Hannor

:.20.

•1 PT. Pllerg

*r-n14:21. 1 Screwdriver

22.

1 Spark Plug Wrench

: 23..

2 Upright Poles, 3y foot In Length, 1/Oarlockss

RAMAN

---

## Page 16

14-00000

SECRET

5-

DESEHSITIZED

..1.

24. 1 Ritchio Corpass

25. 1 Sheet Camouflage Material, 20' × 10'

26.

1 RB 9.6

• 27. 1 HRT-T Beacon

Haps

Maritine Charte

2 Н.0. 1002

2 Н.0. 2624

2 Н.0. 0944

Series E723, 3-AUS,

1:50,000

2 oa. Sheets 4085 I

4085 IV

4085 II 4085 III

4084 I 4084 IV

8222544129000

ini

ной.

J. Miscellaneous

Cleaning Gear for 9 a Pistol, H3 SHE end PAL Isclüdino

RIG Gun Grease

2.

200 ft. Parachute: Cord

3.

Box of Matches and Faterproof ContaIners 10K 88Z0

12 Polyethylene Bags

4- Large Enough to Contain FAL

4-Large Enough to Contain Assembled M-3

4 18" S1z0 for Personal Documents, ete.

-5:

2 Sheets Infra-Red Paper, 18" x 24"

1 Dynalite

7. 14 Extra Flashlight Batteries

8.: 4 Flashlight Bulbs

9.

8 Extra Penlight Batteries

SECRET

DESENSiTIZED

it die santi-1u.2

---

## Page 17

14-00000

:.

SECRIT

-6.

"BAT

DES ENSITIZED

10. 4 Packs Lighter Flints

11. 4 Cans Lighter Fluid

12. 1 Set Parallel Rulers

, 13. 1 Set Dividers

14. 2 Protractors, Hetal

"15. 2 Pocket BUlerB, Hetal

16. 1 Flat #111 Filo

17. 1 Pocket Carborundum Stone

.*

18. 1 One-Burner Gas Stove--Butane Gas or Similar Type-v/Extra

Cylinders of Gas

?. 19: 1 Cooking Pot (at least 8" 11 Diameter)

20. 5 Knife-Fork-Spoon Sets

21. 2 Messkits

22.

Box of Insect Repellent, 48 Saall Plastic Bottles

23. 6 Cans Spray Paint, Black

24. I Can Saddle Scep

25. 1 Packago of Sponges

26. Tollet Paper

27. Hand Soap and Detergent

28.

Paper Plates

29.

Plastic Spoons

30.

Assorted Fishhooks and Line

31. 8 Burlap Bags

32. Assorted Empty Cardboard Bores

---

