# 104-10291-10019

## Page 1

104-10291-10019

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET - SECURITY INFORMARON

CONTRACT PERSONNEL

OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

RETURN FILE TO 56425

NOTICE:

This is

an Office of Personnel File

and

siibjeet to 10

day

linitation period. This

file

has been charged

and is due do he returned to

CONTRACT PERSONVEL

DIVISION, 5E-15 Hgs.,

---

## Page 2

Mr. George Martin Rosaek

Dear Mr. Roänoks

Reference is made to your contrnet with the U. S. Goternment

as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970,

amended.

Effoctive & April 1979, paragraph four (4) entitlod "Compensation"

1's ani nded by deleting the figure 837,270 as it appears therein and

substituting la lou thereof the figure 941, 270;

Said paragrAP

1.18 aldo podidled to provide that rubsequent

sumentation of your baote fee, based upon the peroentage leerence

Authorised U.%, Goverent eployeen 14 the enmiel Raciolative Per

Increasen, will be individually authorted by contract amendrient at

propriato tige as requested and certifted by the responsible

mont offiet, provided hovered, that your total comongstien

ME CIVOLo

under

this peroraph doen not exceed, the celay At

RASA

all other Tenme and Contitie of + 1-1

content, an amenda, imam in full force ant

effects

---

## Page 3

4-00000

ACHINISTRATIVE - INTEPAL USE ENLY

1r. Georos MartIn koenek

lear Mr. Pösnek:

montod by deletina the froure sal 270 as st appenn

atituting in luou thercor the Pagure San, 159.

Nit other Lores and condatione of the controcti

tull forco ind ortod

UNTICO STATES COVERNEM

Ial em 20ma

ACIMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE MAY

115/28

---

## Page 4

sis.

SECRET

5

CI 321-79

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM

Day

Chie

• Counterintelligence Staff

THROUGH:

chier, Career. Management. Start

Manpower and Support Branch/Contract

SUBJECT

Amendment:

to Contract for

Seorge Martin, Rosnek

paragraphs four

1) entitied "Compensation

of subiect

effective

as

amended

reques ter

that. the

a 10 be deleter

5Er Des Substrtured

a therein

This in:

the percentage

(7 percent)

Cunar tea is coverene eployee none star teginative

Pay increase effective 1 October 1979

2. All classified secret.

DartH. Ble

Davad H. Blee

CONCUR:

god 74

Chief, Contract Personnel bivision

Date

CL BY

063765

RVW 5 Oct 99 DRY D9c. 1

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

•ADMINIS

LIVE - INTERIUN, USE ONLY

ME. Gepige Martin Rosiek

Deas N5: Rosneks

Reference: is. made, to your Contract with the united States Covegnment,

as represented by the Central Intelligence Age

y, effective 1 March 1970,

estective 8 22r11 1979, puragraph four (4) entitled "Dorensation"

Is ended by caleting the Siguse

$37,270 as It appears therein and by

theres

ure S41, 270a

Said paragraph is also

not stea to prentse

that

don of

Astarve

quest

certlite

the

tracerem

ble Governnent

Tous total compensation under

this paradice

ent ot the salary rate pata at the top step ol

does not excees the egut

CS-15:1

in other tems and conditions of the contract, as mended; renalin tri

full force and effect:

BY

1s/ Geno, I. Burd

Spectay Contracting Ofticer

I was bit.

11 AeR 1919

Da te

11.1 APR 1979

Đàt e

ADDETE

ADMINIS

12

AX 1979

Date

FENIVE - INTERALL, USE ONES

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

29.M09

CI 121-79

SEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM

:

David H.

Blee:

Chief,

Counterintelligence Staff

THROUGH

Chief

Career Management

Staff

Manpower and Support

branch contract

SUBJECT

Amendment to Contract for

George Martin, Rosnek

Action Rogues tects requestcosthat the contract

For Mrs,

ben

amended to Increase

his compensatIon from 437, 270 to 541,270

persannum Cfective '8 April 1979

-2.:

Backsround In Septembor 1978 Mr. Rosneke

former

senior officor

of the keb. raised with lils case officer the

question of prior financial commitments made to hin by the

Agency:

specifically, he claimed that

tho Agency stunt owed

him $20,000 of

an original

commitment of 0,000 made to nin

ạt the

time of his defection.

This $20,000 claim has become

an obsession with Me Rosnek and is likely to affect negatively

his relationship with the Agency unless rosolved to his relative

satisfaction.

Attached for

background information are

documents relating to Mr. Rosnek's claim.

After careful considcration of the equities involved

in this .casc. it

is my belict that sccurtty considerations

dictate that we settle Mr. Rosngk's claim In the following

I will approve an

in his annual parent by

S4, 000 effective April 1979 (from $37,270 to $41, 270) -

compensation would be increased each

even to us he are emptice to the cool lies prease

ision is curtently in his contract. However. at sier fine

such time

CE BY

063765

RVIV. - 2:6

Mar

99

DRV D9c.]

SECRET

---

## Page 7

154

SECRET

•as Mr. Rosnek reaches the salary pald an employce in the

ton step of GS-15 (currently $47,500)

his annual compénsation.

would be increased only as the pay for that step incrcases..

All other

amended, rendin in full force and effect.

terms and conditions of said contract. as

all classified Secret

David H. Bloe

•AS

CONCURA

3 py

Career Management Staff

OS APR STE

-Date

APPROVED:

Chief, Contract Personnel

Division

Da té

2

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, counterintelligence Staff

FROM

Stcron k.

Rubenstein

C/CS/A/DEF

SUBJECT

REFERENCES

PODONOR

•A.

Memo Datce lo Feoruary

1970

From DC/Security

Rescarch Start

Acknowledgcmont and. Release Forn

Dated 12. July 1973

A carchit revicw at the PDONOR file substantiates

the facts that there were three unequivocal Financial commit

ments. made to PhONOR at the time.

pe his detection in

rebruary 1904. These three commitnents here.

He would

bệ paid $25,000 for each

of

the

years he cooperated in place.

Total

$50,000.

b..

He would receive $10,000 for his part in

idéntifying William Vassal a British

Admiralty employce as a NoB agent.

C i

He woudd

from

roccive $25,000 per ycar salary

the Agency

2.

The question at issuo how is whether an additional

comnitment was also made to PDDONOR. to the effect that the:

gency would provide financial assistance

to him to purchase

a home:

According to PRONOR,

so vanuary 190 in Geneva

prion

to his defection in a conversation with his case officer,

Mr.

he stated,

"i will arrive with

what thave.

on my back

no home

÷ no

roof no anything."

the reply to

PDDONOR"

-be

Was:

as follows;

"This will be taken care of:

it with

provided

" This exchange In PODoNOR's view,

constituted

DOC DAYA_

14 Feb- 90

DY D9c .1

_BY 063765

S E

CRET

---

## Page 9

SECRET

what he belteres

Was

a coumitment on thic part

• The МЕСТСУ

to provide. him with

financial

assistance

in the purchase. of

a home:

A memorandum dated

1o february 1940 written by

'Bruce Solic

And true Solde dest

describes this verbal exchange betüeen PDONOR

(see Reference A).

In addition,

memorandum dated 14 August 1972 also written by ur. Sollo

(Reference

B) states that "Nosenko stated that prior to his

defection in Geneva,

discussed his future-with Bagley and

made three requests,

being:

a. Employment at $25,000 per year;

b: $50.000 in savings accounts

Assistance in purchasing a house

According to Nosenko,

eagley a day on two later; informec

Nosenko

thát his equests

nad.been.approved.and nosenko

considers. this const ftuted alvalid verbal contract..

FrOM PDDONOR's viewpoint therefore an additional

commitment,

quite separate and apart from the three tistca

in

paragraph 1 was made to him.

Consequently, he now argues

that a paynent made to him in July 1970, in the amount of

$20,000

and which he used as a downpayment on a house,

was

the

fulfillment of this additional commitment and not part

the $50, 000 he was promised for his two years

This despite the was tray in the in August come tenorandum

@S. Mr.

Solie statos in paragraph 5,

"Nosenko also

considers

that the assistance in purchasing furniture;

house, etc, which he has been given since 1969 should be

conserce as cancelling the matter of the sond00.

What seems to have occurred is a change of posttion

on PUDONOR's part.

While previously acknowledging that

below listed payments only 530,000 should be applied against

the s50,000 commitment.

The July 1970 payment of $ 20,000:

should be applied against a separate commitment to provide

assistance in purchasing

a home.

SECRET

---

## Page 10

SECRET

$2,000 in March 1964

58,000 1л. May 1969

$5,000 on 1 July 1970

$20,000 on 1 Jüly

1970

(According to

PDDONOR this

payment Should not be applied

against the $50,000 commitment)

$15,000 on 12 July 1973

Thus:

according

to peDoNORs reasonins

is still due him

as part of the original SS0, 000 commitment-

Several additionat points

should be noteds. on. 2 July

1973 POONOR Signed. an

eagment rand. Release prepared

by the General Counset: in

hich PDDONOR

releases and foreve

discharges. the us Government and.

the

Agency

from any Claim

for

moncy promised

to him:

(Reference

In addition

Issue

the 20, 000 he

Says.

is

still

owed.him

does: not surlace

in

the file until September 1978

14 ycars:

after his

defection:

The explanation of why this issue would arise at this

late.

date is not cicar from available records.

Attached are copies of those documents which impact.

on this issue:

Because of the complexities

of this case I

recommend that we request.the Office of General Counsel to

review the entire case and provide a ruling on the legitimacy

Of PODONOR'S claim of

$20,000

After such a ruling ve can

discuss our

future course

of action.

7.

All classified Secret.

StinK Rubenstei

Attachments:

AS

Stated

SECRET

---

## Page 11

14-00000

* SECRET A

OGC 79-02042

1 March 1979

MEMORANDUN FOR &

FRON

SUBJECT

Chief, Counterintelligence Staft

John

Rizzo

Asslatant General counsel

Financial Commitments to PDDONOR/1

This in response to your memorandum or

28 February.

A1979 which requests ourtopinion concerning ClAX.

existing financiat

ranking

ce officer who detected tonthly country ing ebruary.

196 after having cooperated. in place for the previous two

yearst.

Based on, infornation contained in at Staff files,

there:

appeass no question

the Agency made three docu

mented.

unequi vocal promises to PRenoR

defection:

at; the t

time of his

b)

c)

he would be paid a total of $50, 000 1525,000

per annum) in consideration for his previoug

two years' service in placer

he would receive a s10, 000 payment for

his

part in identifying a certain RGB operative

in the British government; and

he would be placed under contract for an

provision for retfrement

and other benefits.

Your menorandum

secks our assistance in resolving the issue

of whether or not the Agency has, as pdonoR/d asserts, any

current, Independent obligation to pay PDDONOR/1 $20,000

bạsea bn an oral commitment madé tò him by à now retired ch

officer at the time of his defection promising him the

Agency's Financial assistance in his securing a residence

in this country.

ORIGINAL CLBY _ 035224

ODECL 3 REUTCH 28 ECD 99

EXT BYND 6 YRS BY

REASON_

sit: SEGRET A

ALL PORTIONS ARE CLASSIFIED SECRET

ATTACHMENT

---

## Page 12

« SECRET A

2.

As you know, due to unforseen and extraordinary

factor's which arose shortly after PDDONOR's defection:

three documented commitments.made to him as outlined

the

in the

erevious paragraph were

not fulfilled until some years after

nis detection.. In this

connection, the file indicates that

not start

receiving an Agency Salary unttl

March: 1969, and that it was not

until six years later that

he began to be pard. at the prevlously promised rate of

$25,000 per annum. Accordingly, in order to belatedly

at 196 Tump 1up counts have brin made to de on thomor

occasions in recent. years with the approval of senior. Agency

managenent Beelyo

these lump-sum payments consisted. ofs

25900 (less taxes) in November: 1972eto cover the

balance owed for salary during the pertod aps, 19% Ato

March 196%b) 15,009n Juy 13 to sette the remander

que on the s50,00e obigation to ProNeR tot his service.

mplace overseas prior to his defection? and c) $28/500-

(authorized in April 1976 but evidently not pald untilate

last year to cover the balance of his prevously promised

$25,000 annual saliy

March 1975

as well as the sl0. 000 commitment originally made to PDDONOR/1

prior to his February 1964 defection (see paragraph I(5)

above) for his role in identifying a certain kGB operative

in England.

As previously stated,

the sole issue, for considera

tion

at this point revolves around PDDONOR/l's rclatively:

recent assertion that CIA still owes him $20,000 as a result

of a vaguely worded oral commitment made to him by a now-

retired

Agency officer in 1964 who promised that CIA would

provide housing

for IpoNor/i in this country following his

arrival. In analyzing eDDONOR/l's contentions. in this

regard,

we believe for the

following reasons that the details

surrounding CIA's July 1973 payment to him of 915, 000 assume

particular stonificance and do, in fact, firmly rule out any

further, outstanding legal obligation to himwith respect to

payments to cover PODONOR/1's eventual purchase of a höme.

Of course: the key consideration involved is the fact that

the $15, 000 payment was made following PDDONOR/ll execution

ot a quitclaim prepared by this office through which hẹ

agreed to

"celease, and forever discharge. the: Centra

Intelligence Agency: from any

claim

for money promised te

him for;

and/or at the time of his defection, and from

any

and all other claias in any form whatsoever arising out of

of in any way connected with his cooperation

and association

with... CIA prior to the date of this document, 12 July

1973."

SECHET PE

---

## Page 13

14-00000

& SECRET A

Thus, the wording of the quitclaim is clearly and purpose-

fully unconditional and 18

specifically intended to

bar the

kind of belatedly raleed claim which

PDONOR/1 is raking now.

4.

could property point out rebuttal that

the scemingly all-encompassing scope of the quitelain, a

fürther payment of s28500 was in fact subseguently author.

1zed

for PDDONOR/1 In April 1976.

However

an internal OCC memorandum dated I April 1976 which concurred

tn this additional $28,500 payment, the real purpose of the

12 July release was to settle once and for all the losue of

the balance of the s5p000 owed PIONer/ for his two years

of in place cooperation pilos to his detection hecord Ingly

since, the $28,500

payaent was intended to satlot other pre-

extsting comnitment@sto Popovon/ll er back sale e oveds

well as the s10,000 promiged for bla role

this office

ble since to was outside, the intended scope of

Che gutt claim

and was being used to funtity separate,

toily documented

promises of compensation made carlier to him.

1973

5.

BY contrast:

payment to

for his quitclaim, the

available background materials contained in the files you

nave provided us loave tittle doubt. that the issue of compen-

sation to cover his purchase of

a home was an Intrinsic part

of the calculations which led to the

decision to

authorize

the $15,000 payment to him at that time.

• For inscancer

the 25 June 1973 memorandum

to Me Colby which centurned the

recommendation for the $15, 000 payment, the Direstor of

Security delineated some of the previous

advances made to

Podovor/1 in partial Batisfaction of the s50,900 owed to hin

it was spectrically noted in that

subsequent ly pass

leasing CIA from any further Financial

Dircetor of Security's memorandum went

on to indicate

that

PDDONOR/1 "agreed"

with these calculations:

moresser PDDONOR/l's

acknowledgment that CIA had previously fulfilled its

SEGREES

3

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SECRET A

commitmonts to him regarding a house is more explicitly

docúmented in a 14 August 1972 memorandum for the ffle from

the Deputy Chief, Security Research Group, which quotes

PDDONOR/l as saying that he considers that the adsistance

in purchasing furniture, a house, etc. which hechas been

glven since 196% Should: be considered. as cancelling the

matter of the 550,000". (Emphasis added):

6.

Therefore, from all of the above, it must be con

cluded that contrary to PoDONOR/l's assertiona, ClA has

long since fulfilled any promises which Agency representar

tives made to him prior to his defection concerning his

housing in this country. Further,

the available evidence

clearly tends to indicate that

PDoNOR/I fullyy understood.

and accepted the fact. that these obligations had been

u ly

met

atthe time that he signed hrs quiteram in Julyste

since the terms and scoperas the quitclaim are fully

controlling on the claim which ProNoRTs asserting we

have deterrined that the Agency has no legal obligation

whatsoever

tò pay him the $20,000 which he seeke.

7

AS a

final note,

this office recognizes that, not-

withstanding the absence

of any legal obligations, the par-

cicularly sensitive

status of PodoNOR/l within CIA may

nevertheless give rise

to an understandable desire in some

quarters to make thie $20.000 payment to him on security

andor moral grounds.

We do not necessarily quarrel with

• Buch a viCW,

not do we mean to implý that ciA is legally

precluded from, in effect,

"waiving" the terms of the quit

claim if it so chooses.

At the same time, it

must be remem

bered that this office

was

asked to prepare the quitclaim at

issue in 1973 precisely in

anticipation of a situation. such

as the one before us now.

it is respectfully submitted that

such documents will cease to have any future efficacy.or

credibility whatsoever if individuals such as PuDoNoR/I who

are ostensibly bound by them perceive a willingness on the

aside these carefully worded and legally

binding documents whenever à claim

ino matter how til

founded) is advanced.

In

short, we hope and trust that any

decision to pay pDDoNOR/1 the $20,000 at issue despito the

quitclaim and documented evidence

to the contrary

will

ber

based on truly compelling security or moral considerations

Jena Pas

at SEGRET

4

---

## Page 15

ONENISITATIVE - IT

USE ONLY

"H: rentge Hartin Arenet

intens? in made to your contract with the U. s. Governaent, a

presental by the Central Intelliganon Agencil, effective 1 March 1970, a

sizendol.

Elacrive 26 Decenber 1978, peretaph live (5) entitied Allan,

Travel and other Repenter" Is aunded, if the delecton ot the läst sentenc

in ite entirety and by funstiatin in lleu cherook she collonng

-.

"it In the courés of thie contract you are directod. to travel or

net tons are at coltion of me ange a see an a

AGINEY

1 7.

- Bl

0tộ cor

K'N'

MAINIS

RATIVE - INTERIAL, USE DILS

SC13)

1/9/29

---

## Page 16

Me. Georga Martin i2578k

reference 1a 1190 to your contrast with the unltail stites sovorment,

represented by the sentral. Intelliganoe Agency, offective 1 Marchi 1970,

Excoctive 8 April 19150 paragsaph tour (e) entlelad 2om

1a wanted by deleting the floure 537,270 as it appease areln at be

substituting In lieu thereot the figure no.

editos to proside that absoquent au mentation of your baate too, bare

i be indivlally authorized by contract ame

estod and corttflos by the responatole Govern

CIA MINE MAC

spector contracting offort

forge

Kreissi

APPROVEDE-

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERUN, UBR• OULY

---

## Page 17

14-00000

Mr. Brüce A, Bertotally

Dear Mr: Bertotally!

Reference 1s made to your contract with the United States Goveriment, as

represented by the Conträcting Officer, effective 1 March 1970, as amended.

EsPectIve 3 October 1973 paragraph Pour (1) entitled "Compensation" is

amended by deleting the flgure $35,327 as it appears therein and by substituting

In leu therrof the figure $37,270.

All other tems and conditions of the conträct, as amended, remain lo

Pull Porce and offect.

UNITED STATES GOVERIMENT

contracting Off/cor

лівій

10/12/78

Arministate - miternal Use da.,

---

## Page 18

ADMINISTANINE - IRREMEL USE ONLA

Mt. Goönge Martin Roxi

Dear Mr. Mätrieks

Ratorenco la mado to your contriot with the Unitor! Status Covernment, as

riprasanted by the Contral Intelligunce Ayandy, Offectlva I March 1970, a8

Befootive 9 October LTY paragraph four (1) entitlol "Oompensation" Is

amanahm) in deleting the fligure 933,000 as 11 aquaars theroli ant by sunstituting

In leu theroof the tigure $33,327. Sall pragrapi lo ilso molicled to proutdo

that mbasent augmentation of your laste fee, based upon cost-of-living

increases, will bo individually nithorized by contract anentent at appropelate

timis as roguanted and ortified by the rosponsibie sovermment official.

Nil other terms and conditlons. of the contract, as amided, remain

in full foron aid affecti

'42.

13253 93 r

CEVTRAL INTUI LIGENOS AGENCY

pecial Contract

TED

15/

1.28.

V71Y42338

1 02 C1

---

## Page 19

Me: @aörge Martin Rosnck

Disas Mi. Raginals

Riferenos la mide to your contract with the ünltel Stätes Owernment, as

representod by the Cantral Intelligence Agency, effective l March 1970, as

mental.

Eatectiva 16 Pabruary 1977 parzaraph four (d) entitlad "Compensation"

18 mental by authorizing you a one-time, Jump sun taxable priment in the

amount of $2, 100.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, ns amendort, remain

in full forco and effect.

RAL INIELLI

CE AGENCY

Fal Contr

acting O

2 gor 28.

Data

151

Data

APPROVID:

8. 2k

Däte

'"'?

---

## Page 20

AGAINST THE - INTOINEAL USE ONLY

i. @a0rge Martin Roeriek

Daar Mi. Roenaks

Reference 13 made to your contract ilth the Unfted Staten Cousrrment, as

represented by the Central Intelligenca Agency, effective 1 March 1970, as

Effective 1 June 1977 paragragh. Elva (5) entitled "allanes, Tear91, ani

other Erpensay" la amended by expanding 1t3 sange do authorize tia cnnourrent..

voluntary, travel of your dependent wile, includin the approprlata rate r

par dien, when it is datemima by the respanstble roverment officlal that

aen traveL ma support and best serve sparational interesta in epectives

he extent and destinations of such depentent travel will be as designated an

definel by such offictal and, when in the course of such traval it la Jetamind

as a mitter of operational neceisity ons a matter essential to her health and

vell baing that she remin at some partleilar plice in the coirse of such trave

hile you continua on to speltle geographical lo ations in fultillment of

terns and conditions of the contract, as amid, remin

CINTRAL INISLLIGENCE ABICY:

8Y

Special intractim ollor

eate

WITNESS:

151

2 api

7:8

Dito

APPROVEDS

Date

---

## Page 21

14-00000

OG6. 78-0606

1-31-25

SECRET

Bertotally, Bruce A.

30 January. 1978

METORADUN FOR: Chief, Countorintelljence Staff

VIA:

FROM:

Office of General Counsol, OND; Attention: Mr. John Reco

Charles W. Sandman

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBILET

REFERDICE:

Contract Arendient for Mr. Coonge Nartin For

Nonorandy from Chief, Cl staff, dated 20 December 1977

subject not to ponde he istant cite portioned expenses

2.

(S)

Paragriph five (S) of Subject's current contract,

among othet

things, provided fot

It Is our opinion that the inten

hore was to provide authorization for expenditures for "Operational" purposes.

mo languago boing gonaral and non-restrictive in nature, it would follow

that ay expenditure doemed by you, as the operating activity, to bo of an

operat tonal nature, and so authorized, would be within the framework of the

authortzation and that there would bo no need to specifically idontify ad

naditionally autorise the iton anor it's varu. Accordingly no retion

1s taken upon your maquest,

It boing presuiod that you already havo adequate

contractual authority.

+91-81-37949118

Charles Hi. Sandnien

Date:

8. FEB 1878

Concut:

L6l John A. Reso:

*. OfFico of Coneral Counsel

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - OGC/O6MLD

2y OP/CPD.

SECRET

E2 IMPUET

CL BY: 063837

---

## Page 22

Dear 1I. Rosnick

Hof, In the to your contrnct with the U.u. Garl., as represented by

the Central Intellläence Agency, effective 1 March 1970, du amended.

Erioctiro 26 Dec, 1973 parnerapi five (5) catliled "Allowances, Iravel.

¡and other Expenzes" 1a anendod is the deletion of the last sentence lo 1t0--

entirets and by aubctituting in ileu thereor the following:

"If-In-tho courso of this contract you are directed to travel or are.

authorized to Incur other expenses, relbursement of sueh expenses y1l

be nade ön & counted rate bacis, based on constructive cost, inite in the

In the Washington metropolltan area. This commuted rate sun will bot

be robinson reduced by any operational entertainment that my be

provided to yon

Al other tenta and conditiona of the contract, as emended, renein in full

force and veffect.

Signature.

Lit sand.?

---

## Page 23

SECRET

26 008,

EL 194-78

MEMORANDUM FOR: Contract Personael Division

FROM

David H. Blee

Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

THROUGH:

Chief,

Chower ree sport one ch/Contract

SUBJECT

Contract. Amendent for

Bruce. A. BERTUTALLY

Action Requested; it is requested that the contract:

for Bruce 7. BERTOTALLY, an Independent Contractor be amended

by changing the slast sentence of Paragraph. S,.

Allowances,

Travel and Other Expenses, to read as follows:

"Ifon the course of this contract, you are directed

to travel or are authorized to incur other expensest.

reimbursement of such expenses wifi be made on a

commuted

rate basis, based on constructive cost, while

In the washington metropol can arga.: This

Commuted:

rate sum

NiTT

not be reduced by any operational

entertainment that may be provided to you.

2.

Because of the current wording in

believes

that a reduction in BERTOTALLY'S

commuted rate

entitlement

must be made when operational entertainment (meals)

are..

provided him by his

case officet.

based on the present wording in

This

interpretation is

the contract stating that

reimbursement for expenses

will be in

"substantial

accordance

with CIA regulations."

Since unter CIA regulations

a re-

duction in per diem is effected when meals are provided by

the Government, C/PCS/ESS/B&F believes the language óf the

contract should be

amended to permit opcrational

entertainment

(meals) torbe provided to Subject without resultant deduction

in his commuted

rate reimbursement:

All other

terms:

and conditions of the contract

remain in full force and effect.

avid A Blee

David H. Blee

-CONCUR:

Hulle

C/CMS

DERIVATIVE CL BY - 0631L3

EI DECL O REWW ON -24 DECO

• DERIVED FROM D9C-I

SECRET

---

## Page 24

Mrs Bruce A, Bertstally

Dear MT. Better 9113

Res, 1o sale 10 your contrers with the l.s. Gort., as represented

Dy the contral Is'alligence Agency, effectire 1 March 1970, as asended,

red with speciese reference to the mandment erfective 1 June 19T1

pertaining to travel as authorizos la paragrapa fre (5) entitled Morancos,

Trevel and otber Bipengee."

Eirective 7 rune 19177 the last sentence of

said parnerso. Hae senso of tidel pertatis to the imposition and tho.

mubjectivety. of cane.recelveduster the cmitract.totaxes.ladeleted.ip

sto entirely.

Steele 2s Jeno 1918 enla & la further amended by expendine the

scope of parigo four (4) ensi, Compensation to provide for ther

authort ration of a one time time us payment in the angunt of tricks

AT ather terus and confitions ot the contract, an amendod, remale In?

full force and esfect..

---

## Page 25

14-00000

•oL " hilLilind UsE Unli

AI. Brucó A. Bertorally

Dear HI: BArtOtAlLY!

Rofoxicace 10 rade to your controct vich the Unitod Stacos Covernment,

ropressarod by tha Contral Intelligance Acency.

afloctive 1 March 1970, 30

sovadod, each areelfle relarence to the amendeans elfective I June 1977

portalalas to travol as auchorised la parasrapti five (1) anticled "Allovances,

Traval and other Expensos, "

EePocrIto 1 June 1977. thó last bontence of

sald paragraph, the seuno of valch partaina

to the impoultion and the aubjectivaty.

of fundo rocalvad undor che contract to caros, la delored in 1ta entiracy.

Effactle 29 January 1978 seld contract lo furthur amonded by expandion:

cha soppiól paragraph four (4), catfeled "Componalton" to provide for the

authoritation ol a ond-cing, lump aun neysors la the

All öcher some and conditton

of thie contrecti co

scanded, ressia lu

Pull force

and affect.

spoctal Contrecting Officor

not iridicitis

- INTERNAL USE ONLY

1-30-78

---

## Page 26

14-00000

SECRET

20 P68

CI 659-77

MEMORANDÙM FOR:.

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM:

B. Hugh Tovar

Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

THROUGH

Career Managenent Staff

Manpover and Support:

Branch/Contract

SUBJECT;

Contract

Amendment

COT

Cootge Martin Rosnek

Action Requested

It's requested

that the

contract for Mr?

George Martin, Kosnek;

an Independent:

amended. effoctivo. as of 1 January, 1978

Contractor 550,00 per morth for the use of his private

to pay him

living quarters as

office:

It is atso requested that

Mr. Rosnek's contract be amended to include the interest

payments on a car that he purchased

so that he could be

ready and available for work when we request him.

Khen Cl Staff assumed responsibility.

for Mr. Rosiek in July 1976, we noted that the Office of

Security had an inforial arrangement by nich: it reimbursed

Sir. Rosnek $50.00 per month for the use of his private

quarters as

office space.

It is now

requested that this

arrangement be ancorporated into Mr.

Rosnek's contract.

On? February 1977 former Chief Cl Stuff agreed to

Rosnick for the interest paynents on 1 cer

which he purchased so that he would be ready and available

for work when we

nceded him.

The monthly interest

charge as

of december 1977

is slightly less than $39.00

and it is

. EZ IMPDET

CL

BY 012203

SECRET

---

## Page 27

14-00000

SECRET

cxpected to decline stcadily as tho unpato. balance is

mortised orer tho next iro yeurs..

It.

is,

thorc fore,

requested that Mr. Roshek's contract be amended to

also include this payment.

All other terms

and conditions of said cuntract,

as amendad. remain in full force and effect.

Nugh Tovar

CONCUR:

C/CMS/MSB/c*

2 3 DEC 197:7

Dat'c

2

SECRET

---

## Page 28

14-00000

S

ECRET

fire;

25 457

CI 031-78

MEMORANDUM

FOR:

FROM

THROUGH

SUBJECT

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

Hugh Tovar

Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

Chief, Career Management Staff

Manpower and Support Branch/Contract

Contract Amendment for

Bruce A. BERTOTALLYS

Action Requested: it is requested that the contract

for Bruce

BERTOTALLY, an Independent Contractor, be

amonued retroactive to 1 June ron deleting the last sentence

of páragraph 3, concerning. the taxability of opcrational

travel by his wife; of a previous amendment cffective l Jüne

1977.

It is further requested that a one-time payment of:

$1,404 to BERTOTALLY be authorized to offset the tax'hè is

required to pay on the $3,100 which represents his wife's

travel expenses on their last operational trip abroad, which

appeared on BERTOTALLY's W-? form for

1977 as additional

taxable income.

Back

round

After CI Staff assumed responsibility.

FOr BERTOTALY. in July 1976,

based on requirements developed

by the field, he was

asked. if he would be willing to under-

täke occasional

operational trips abroad for the purpose of

briefing and lecturing

friendly liaison services and other

high-level foreign officials.

BERTOTALLY

agreed, but was

adamant that he would only do so if the Agency would allow

his wife

to accompany him not only for purposes of companion-

but also to

Because this was his

was felt het presence would contribute

to his good morale,

effectiveness in the performance of his mission, and also

preclude his possibly

creating potentially embarrassing

incidents for us and

the

host fiaison services; Chief,

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 012208

SECRET

---

## Page 29

SECRET

CI Staff made a personal commitment to BERTOTALLY that

he could indeed have his wife accompany him on any

operational trips abroad, if he chose to have her do so,

and that her travel expenses would be borne by the

Agency.

It was understood that hér

travel expenses would be limited

to the cost of her travel and per diem.:

subsequent to this agreement BErtotaLLY took three

separate trips abroad accompanied by his wife and one quick

trip, to Mexico accompanied by his case officer.

developed following the first two trips Vouchers submitted

after

each

claiming their joint costs as operational.

expenses, were honored without question. However a lowing

their last Joint trip abroad her travch expenses or caou

wore

interpreted as additional taxable income, BERTOTADLY

considers this a violation of the commitment made to nim

and has cmanded that the Agency pay him a sum 'equivalenty to

the additional. Federal and State taxes he wilt have to pay

as a result of our unilateral decision on this

matter.

Presently ve already have three separate trips abroad

planned

for BERTOTALLY during 1978.

We are convinced that

unless we reimburse him for the $1,404 additional tax he

must pay for 1977

and assure him that his wife can accompany

him on future operational trips abroad at Agency expense

and without having

such

expenses. declared as additional in-

Cond ithe will

refuse to go on any more trips abroad on our

111 other

terms and conditions. of the contract

remain in

full force and effect.

.. Mügh Tova:

CONCUR:

C/ CMS/MSB/C

126 Jan 78

2

SECRET

---

## Page 30

14-00000

SECRET

HI. Bruce A. Bartotally

Dear MT. Bertotally!

Reference is mado to your contract with the United States Goverusent, as

representeduby the Contracting

Officer, affoctive 1 March 1970, as amended.

Effactive 9 October 1977 parneraph four entitlod "Componsatioo" 1o

meaded by deleting the rigure s33.000 de it appeare coerein and by substituting

La 11ou thereof the figure $3S, 327: Said parapraph 18 alao modifiod lo

provide that nibsequent ausmantation of your basic fee, babad upon cost-of-living

Increages; wild ba individually authortsed by contract amendrent at appropriace.

(pas as requested. and cortitled by the rasponaible coverment orstelal.

All other teria and conditions of the contract, an anended, remelo

1a fall force and effect.

UNITED STATES COVERNANT

BY

4 Regars f. Bro-ss

ontracting Orsicer.

B2IMPDET

Cl. 'by:

053837

1-13.78

---

## Page 31

14-00000

SECRET

CI. 001-78

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

ATTENTION®

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM

ugh Lova

niel. counterintelligence. scatt

THROUGH

Chief, Carcer Management Staff

Manpower and Support Branch/Contracts

SUBJECT

Contract Amendment for

George Martin Rosnek

Action Requested:

It is requested that the contract

for Mr. George Martin Rosnek,

an Independent Contractor,

be

amended retroactive to 9 October 19?7 to

increase his

compensation from $33,000 per annum. to $35,327.

This repre-

sents a cost of living increase of ? 05 per cent. (It is

further requested that a clause be included in Mr. Rosnek's

contract to the effect

that he is entitled to the

equivalent

of any future cost-of-living increases granted to Agency

employees.

Background:

Mr. Rosnek was recruited by the Agency

in Switzerland in T962 and promised $25,000 per year while

working as an agent in place.

He later defected to this

• country.

In July 1976 responsibility for him was transferred

from the Office of Security

to be of greät assistance to this Staff as weil as

to the CI Staff and he continues

the rBi.

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 012208

SECRET

---

## Page 32

SECRET

The remuneration that he recrives from the Agency

is his

family's sole, means of support.

He was given cost-of-living

crease she pase and the chested sesame the he woula

he was assured by the Chief, CI Staff that

continue

tO

receive such increases in the future.

In early

Docember 1977 he inquired why his pay did not already roflect

the

7:05 per-cent increase given to Agency employces in october.

We belleve it to be

in the best interests

of the US Government

to honor all commitments made to him and to assure that he

continues to

identify himself positivoly with the Agency

All other terms and conditions

amonded, remain In full force

and

of said contract, as

effect.

BALA

B. Hush Tovar

CONCUR:

N tu Colon

C/ CMS/ MSB/C

-2 hai 2

Date.

2

SECRET

---

## Page 33

4-00000

SECRET

14 November: 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chlef, Contract Personnel Diviston

FROM

chief: PCS/CSS/B&

errell W. Hutchtso

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Contract Amendment: Bruce A: BERTOTALLY (P)

Our. Memorandum of

29 June 1977

Our Memorandum of 28

September 1971

In regards to referenced memorandums. we were telephonically

advised by your office that subject's contract was being amended

to provide that the travel expenses of subject's wife represented

taxable compensation:

As we are nearing the end of the tax year..

it would be appreciated if the amendment could be provided in the

near future in order that these payments can be included in sub-

ject's earning's statements.

Thanks.

Terrell W. Hutchiison

SECRET

• E2 IMPDET CL BY 061922

---

## Page 34

14-00000

SECRET

29 June 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM

SUBJECT

: Contract Amendment - Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

1.

No and in receipt of a copy of subject contract

amendment dated

27 June 1977

To administer the conditions

of this amendment, thero are two questions which come to

mind:

The

amendment provides.

dependent wife may ho authorized "when

that travol of subject's

it is

determined by the responsiblo Governmont official

that such travel will support and best serve

operational interests and objectivòs."

Under the

not a ma a a (10 an a tie process o

amendment), TDY truvel for dependents of an employee

must be approved by a Deputy Dircctor.

Fürther,

under the OGC ruling 77-1204,

, TDY travel for a

dependent "should not be authorized,

save the

Deputy Director's discretion.

It should be changed

to preclude any possible interpretation of which

would give risc to TDY junkets for wives and depen-

dents at Government expensc..

While it is recognized

that subject

is in fact an Indopendent Contractor,

the entire

subject of dependents TDY travel is a

delicate issue,

and because of this, we ask that

your office identify the level of the

"responsible

Government official" who must approve the operational

necessity travel of subject's wife.

SECRET

---

## Page 35

SECRET

b.

Query, if the TDY travel of subjoet's

wife

is in

fact properly approved,

not as an

operational.

necessity, but

for matters "essential to her health"

do these payments in fact become taxable income

The

regulations define an Independent Contractor as a

self-enployed individual who nay be paid a fee for

certain

services of products, and generally contracts

provide for reimbursement for necessary operat lonal

expenses:

We have no difficulty in certifying the

wite's

travel when it can be classified as an operational

necessity

However,

as both references provide authority

only to

dependent operational

TDY travel

this also gives rise as to what level of

authority is required to authorize travel for a dependent

wife to accompany hor husband on a TY trip "as a matter

essential to her hcalth."

-It 1s requested that we: be

advised

of the level of the "resonsible Government

official" who can approve such travel.

Further,

subject's contract draws a line between the opctational

necessity

travel and that travel essential to her health,

ve would appreciate being advised if the non-operational

travel paynents for subject's wife represents taxable in-

come.

Ierrell W. Hutchison

PCS/CSS/B§F/THutchison:nr

Distribution:

Oriz.

41 - C/Contract Personnel Division

SECRET

-2 -

---

## Page 36

14-00000

SECRET

28 September 1977

MENORANDUM FOR: Chtef: Contract Personnel Division

FRON

Chfef,

PCS/CSS/B&F

Terrelt W. Hutchison.

SUBJECT:

REFEREXCE

Contract Amendment & Bruce A. BERTOTALLY (S)

Our Memorandum of 29 June 1977

A response to our référenced memorandum (copy

attached) would be appreciated.

Terrell W. Hutchison

28 September 1977

PESJESS/B4F/T. W. Hutchison:ner

Distribution:

Orig. &

CPD

1 - BaF files

SECRET

E2 IMPOET EL BY 061922

---

## Page 37

1p)+2289499-4119

1 0pt..1977

Ar of this date a fuid «each har been made of CPD for ihe eabou'- of rubierte,

file.

Our verord" Indirate that. it oar charged out to Jim 'Harris In Jul

probably in

refertare to ruertion rafred by Terry Hutrhinon on dependent

travel.

He has rearched and hit recy har rearched OGC with no murreir..

ai 6 Oct shuck Bandsan, John fiero and undersigned net with Brad Abermathy ron-

•enn-a to hi.

-ruertIon re approval nuthority for trivel - Chief fi.

Re ro covered print a-

to travel of ou

¡naspendent con actor. in confo menre

and Abernathy

and John R. Indirated acceptance of the -tuation.

with Cout rule: and Reg.

---

## Page 38

14-00000

Rr. Bruce A. Bertotally

Dear. Ar. 'Bertotally:

Reference is made to your contract with the l'nited States Government, as

represented by the Contrscting Officer, effectivo l March 1970..

Effective l June 1977 paragraph five (5) entitled "Allomances, Travel and

other Expenses" Is anended by expanding its scope to authorize the concurrent.

voluntary, travel of your dependent wife, including the appropriate rate of

per dien, when it is determined by the responsible Government official that

such travel will support and best serve operational Interests and oblectives.

The extent and destinations of such dependent travel will be as restonated and

defined by such official and, when in the course of such travel It is determined

as a matter of operational

necessity or as a matter essential to her health

and well being that she remain at

some particular place in the course of such.

travel while you continue on to specific geographical locations

In fulfillment

of operational missions, continuation of, her per diem will be authorized for

such periods.

All montes advanced or reimbursed you hereunder by the Govern-

ment and for the purposes herein indicated are determined to be additional

income to you and as such considered to be taxable for federal Incone tax

purposes:

It. is also understood and agreed by all concerned, and is herein so

that this amendment 1s in no way intended or should be construed

cond gating your dependent wise to accompany you on traval abroad, under

It Is also understood and agreed that the U. S

Govenment neither inters, or assumes any abhaty or hatsoever nature

corceming her health and well beingaff she freely elects to undertake such

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in

tul. rorce. and effect

• UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

1a/ Rogera C. Brontr

BY

Contracting Officer

E2 IMPDET

CL BY:

063837

254000

10/17/77

---

## Page 39

4-00000

17 October 1977

MEMORANDUN FOR: Chief PCS/CSS/B&F

FROM

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

DC/CPD:

: Contract amended Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

Your menorandum, sublect as above, dated 29 June 1977

Your referenced memorandum ratsed, cho basic questions in regard

to an amendment effected to the contract of Bruce Bertota Ly.

.To

deterine the answers a meeting was held 6 Oetober 1977 with discusston

and deciston by those present.

Brad Abernathy: SSA/DBAs John Rizzo for

the General. Counsel

and Charles Sandman with Rogens C. brooks for CPD:

In subparagraph (a) of your memorandum you requested identiftcation

of the level of the responstble Government offictal who must approve the

operational necessity travel of sübject's wife. The Chief CI Staff was

so identified,

Subparagraph (b) basically related to the taxability or non taxability

of, funds made avallable and relating to the dependent wife's travel.

was the consensus and agreement of all present that all such funds should

be considered as additional compensation and taxable.

Rogers C. Brooks.

E2IMPDET

CL

BY:

06.3837

---

## Page 40

14-00000

SECRET

28 September 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM

Chief.

PCS/CSS/B&F

Terrell H. Hutchison

SÜBJECT

REFERENCE

:

Contract Amendment - Bruce A. BERTOTALLY (S)

Our Memorandum of 29 June 1977

A response to our referenced memorandum (copy

attached) would be appreciated.

T. Hitilin

Terrell W. Hutchison

28 September 1977

PCS/CSS/B&F/T. l. Hutchison:nr

SECRET

E2 IMPDET CL BY 061922

---

## Page 41

4-0000

SECRET

: 29 •June 1977

NEMORANDUM FOR:

Chief, Contract Porsonnel Division

FROM

Chief, PCS/CSS/B&F

Torrell W. Hutchison

SUBJECT

Contract Amendment - Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

amendment dad 27 receipt open suer et conditions.

of this amendment, there are two questions which come

a..-

The amendment provides.

that travel of subject's

dependent wife may be authorized "when it is

determined by the responsible Covernnent official

that such travel will support and best serve

operational interests and objectives.". Under the

provisions of HIR 22-2a (18) (now in the process of

amendment), TDY travel for dependents of an employée

Further,

, TY travel for a

depéndent "should not be authorized, save the

Deputy Director's discretion. It should be changed

to preclude any possible interpretation of which

would give rise to TDY junkets for wives and depen-

dents at Government expense."

Wnile it is recognized:

that

subject is in fact an Independent Contractor,

the entire subject of dependents TDY travel

is a

delicate issue,

and because

of this, we ask that

your office identify the level of the

"responsible:

Government official" who nust

approve the operational

necessity travel of subject's wife.

SECRET

---

## Page 42

b.

Query, if the TDY travel of subject's wife

is in

fact properly approved,

not as an operational

necessity, but for mattors "essential to her health"

do these payments in fact become taxable income. The

regulations define an Independent Contractor as

self employed individual who may be paid a fee for

certain

services

ot products, and generally contracts

provide for reimbursement for necessary operational

expenses.

We have no difficulty in certifying the

wife's travel when it can be classified as an operational

necessity.

However, as both references provide authority

only to Deputy Directors to approve dependent operational

this also gives rise as to what level. of

authority is required to ascheri e traver for a dependent

nito to accompany her husband on a IDY. trip "as a matter

essential to hor health." It is requested that. we be

advised of the level of

the "resonsible Gavernment

official" who can approve such travel. Further, as

subject's contract draws a line betveen the operational

necessity travel and that travol essentral to her health,

ve would appreciato being advised: if the non-operational

travel payments for subject's wife represents taxable in-

come.

Terrell W.. Hutchison

PCS/CSS/B&F/TWHutchison:nr

Distribution:

Orig.

& 1 : C/Contract Personnel Division

SECRET

---

## Page 43

4-00000

22 tort

CX 575-77

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM

Hugh Tovat

Chiof, Countorintelligence Staff

SUBJECT

Broad A BEATAL CAF

Action Requested:

It is requested that

paragraph five (5) enticiod "Altowances, Travel and other

expenses" of Buco. BERTOTALLy's contract dated March 1970,

as anended, be furtbor amonded offective I Juge 1977 to pormit

his wife to accompany him on trävel

abroad.

2.

Background:

As in indopendent contractor. Bruce A

BERTOTALLY"'s contract makos no provision for his wife to

accompany him when travcling abroad

at our request.

This

amendment will make such travel possible when at the option

and direction of the Contral Intclligence Agency it is

believed that such travel will materially imorové his cover

and security and substantially contribute to the performance

of his mission.

The icquested change in paragraph five (5)

should in no way

obligate BERTOTALLY's wife to accompany ler

husband on travel abroad nor does it assuns suy liability if

she freely clects to make such travel.

All other torms and conditions

of the contract remain

in full force and cffect.

sing lan too

EZ IMPDET

CL. BI

019359

SECRET

---

## Page 44

SECRET

06.4510

20/12?

55.83

HI. Bruce A. Bartorally

Dast Its. Bertorallys

Rafarance 1a nado to your contract mith tho inited states coveriment, so

roprasanted bÿ tha Contracting Dificar, effectivall March 1970.

REfactivo 1 June 1177 paragra;h fivo (5) entitlad "Allousncos.

Iraval and other Expensea" la anonded by sapandlaz its acopa to suthorizo

the coucurrent, voluntary, traval of your dependient vito, Including tha

appropilita rate of per dies, then 1t la dateralsad by tba responsibla

Covarmanut offlatal that such travel vill support and best sorva oparatlonel

Interants aud object. ma.

The extend and destinatlons of nuch dependent

travel ulll bo an designated and dalined by auch official and, has ta tha

courho of such trel it la deterined is a mattar ol operätional incesalty

or a maccar genenttal to bat health and voll boing chat abe remale it do

particular placo to cho cour of such travl, unile you contime on to

cue geographica locatlona, la lulfilment of operation mastons;

continuation of hat par dion vit be aithorted for auch parlod

he cores ot cht.

•Us.

overussed

anturo

such

Ith and vell being il'ohe freely alects to undertal

gübet

All othes teria and conditlons of the contract, an amended, remain in

full force and aflect.

UNITED STATES COVERIN

1I1 FeBeis f. Brooke

Contracting Officer

PETHPDET

Ci by: 063837

SECRET

---

## Page 45

HH57772791

SECRET

Mr. Bruce A: Bertotally

Dear Mr. Bertotally:

Roference is mado to your contract with the United Statos Government,

as reprovented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective l March 1970.

Effective 1 March 1975, said contract is amended by revising tho first

sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation"' to read as follows:

"You will be compensated by the Centräl Intelligence Agency

at the rate of twenty-five thousand, two hundred fifty dolars:

($25,250) per year."

All other terins and conditions of the contract remain in full force and

effact.

CENTRAL

ELLIGENCE AGENCY

Speci

Contracting

CEPTED.

Bruce

WITNESS:

Bertotally

APPROVED:

YICROFILNED

JULY

ELIMPDET

CL by: 063837

SECRET

---

## Page 46

14-00000

Dear!

Reference is made to your contract with the United States

Jovernment.

as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency,

effective 1 'Harch 1970.

Effective I March 1976,

said contract is amended by revising

the first

reud

sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation"

as follows:

"You will be compensated by the Central Intelligence

Agency at the rate of Twenty-Six Thousand Five Hundred

Thirteen Dollars ($26,513) per yéar."

All other terms and conditions of said contract remain in

full force and iffeet..

Please acknowledge by signing in the space provided below.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BY

ACCEPTED:

Agor: 6 8, 1976

Date

WITNESS:

Bime Shile

seal 1926

APPROVED:

As Fiden 20l,76

Certl Ned to be a true copy of the sigred original which is on file in the

office of Security'

Elunia!

Chief,

Eatin A.

Reetz

Tell.

Eudget and Fiscal Bra

Office.of Security

MICROFILMED

JULY

1977

SECRET

---

## Page 47

ADMIRES TRATIVE

INTERNAL USE CNLY

Sr.

Bruce .A. BERTOTALLY

Dear Mr. Bertotally:

..

Reference is sade to your contract with the Walted States Government, aa

represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective l March 1970, As

amended.

Effective I October 1976, said contract 19 amended by revistag the flist

sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" to read as followg:

"You will be compensated by the Central Intelligence Agency at the race

of Twenty-Bight Thousand Oad Hundred and Throe dollars (§29,103,00) per year,"

All other terms and conditions of sald contract, as amended remala la

full force and effect.

Please acknowledge by signing la the space provided below.

CENTRAL, INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

• ACCEPTED:

BX

Special Contracting, OffiCer

APPROVEL

Contiset ?

/s/ Bruce A. BERTOTAZLY

Octoler: 12, 1976

Date.

WITNESS:

Cellena

APPROVED:

Célluo/976

MeRCINED

JULY 1977

Date.

Certified

to be a true copy of the signed original which is

on

file in CI

Staff.

BITERNAL USE ONLY

it hirlects.

futh I.

Kalecki

10/24/16

Personnel OFficer

• CI Staff

---

## Page 48

14-00000

ACMLHISTRATIYE

INTERNAL BRE BELY

Mr. Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

Dear MT. Bertotally:

Keference is made to your

contract with the United Statca Governmerit, as

represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective l March 1970.

Effective 1 Deüember 1976 said contract is amended by deleting the figures

$12.50 and $603.52 as chey appear in subparagraph (a) of parngraph six (6)

entitled "Negotiated Benefits" and by substituting in licu thereaf the figures

$18.75 and $900.04 respectively.

All other terms and conditions of the contract remain in full force and

effect.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Chrailes

Speclal Contracting officer

ACCEPTED:

/s/ Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

9.

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is

file in CI Staff:

Malacks 12/14/76

Porsonnel Officer

MICROFILMED

JULY

1972

AOAHHISTRATIVE

NITRONEY USE OWLY

Reid 12/15196.

---

## Page 49

14-0000

"9t-

Bruce A. BEKTOTNLLY

-Dear Mr. BERTOTALLY

Reference 18 made to your contract with the United States Governant, as

reprevented by the Contracting Officer, effcctive l March 1970, as

amercied,

Effective 16 February 1977 paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensacity*

1s amended by authorizing you a one-time, lump sun, taxable payment la

the amount of $2,100.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remalo

1n full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMIT

:?.

Certifica

to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in

CI Staff.

MICROF ILMED

at Malicke

Kersonned Officer

23 Dilike 1577.

ABSTRATNE

MME 21 FOR ONY -

---

## Page 50

14-00000

ADIEISTRATIVE

INTERNAL USE UNLY

Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

Deur NT. BERTOTALLY

Reference 1y nade to your contract with the United States Government, as

represented by the Central Intalligence Agency, effective l March 1970, a9

amended.

iffective 1 March 197%,

said contract in anended by revising the first

sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" to read as follows:

"You-will be compensated by the Central Intelligence Agency at the

of Thirty-three sbousand dollars. ($33,000) per year."

All other terns and conditions of sald contract, as amended remata in

full force and effect.

Please schoiledge by algulng in the space provided below.

Ragland aly are near eng

Spectal Contrac

Officer

ACCERTED:

Sierge Mort

Bin tetra

Georgé

Martifi Roinek

WITNESS:

Way 3,1922

Date

1977

APPROVED:

MICROFILNED

197.T

B High Taur

Date

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in

CI Staff.

the Macile

Put 1. Nalecki

Personnel Officer

AUMINICTRATINE

INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 51

14-00000

Mr. Bruce A. BERTOTALLY. D23!

¡Dear Mr. Bertotally:,

•Reference is made lo your contract with the United States Coverument,

as representrd by die Central Inictiinence Agenet, effective 1 March 1970.

Effective 1 March 1973 sair! contract is amended by revisin! the

first sentence of paragraph four (i) enlilled "Compensation" to read as

•follows:

You will be compensated by the Central Intelligence

Agency at the rate of Twenty-Two Thousand Two Hundred

Fifty Dullars ($22,250) per year. "

All other terns and conditions of said contract remain in full force

and effect.

Please acknowledge by signing in the space provided below.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

As Represented by the

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

By:

ontracting Offloer

ACCEPTED:

/o/ Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

Date: 14230l 16, 2203

WITNESS:

/3/ Bruce Lo. Solie

Date: 16 March 1973

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in the Office.

of Security.:

Elm A Rect, 20:995

Edwin A.

Reet?

Chief, Budget and Fiscal Branch

Office of Security

STORET

ELIMPDET

CLby: 025715

---

## Page 52

Nr. Bruco A. BERTOTALLY

Dear. Mr.. BERTOTALLY:

064010

20/71

Reforence is made to your contract with the United States Government,

represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, clleclive l March 1970.

Elloctive l March 1974, said contract is amonded by revising the firut

sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" to read as follows:

"You will be compensated by the Central Intelligence Agency

at tho rate of Iwenty-Three Thousand Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars

($23; 750) per year. "

All other terms and conditions of said contract remain in full force and

effect.

Plonge ac

knowledge by signing in the space provided below.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

B

1175

ACCEPTED:

/s/ Bruce A.

BERTOTALLY

Contracting O

Dryne

Crash,

benig. 9, 1974

Date

WITNESS:

Brun I like

APPROVED:

9na11424

Date

Date

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on

file in the Office of Security.

ELIMPDET

CL by: 063837

Chief,

Edwin

Reetz

Budget

and

Fiscal Branch

Office of Security

SEGRET

---

## Page 53

14-00000

ONWARD COMPONENT

BELICIALIX. Bruce A.

CURRENT NOS POST

ALLATNITS

CASE ONACEA

Bruce L. Solle

COPECTIVE DATI

lodependent Contractor

1.1 March 1969

FUTURE ROS POST (RACTMA DATE)

Washinston, D. C.

CATE OF DIATH

CITIRENIIN

N°

10392

ETEMO

7602

ids: 9226

CITIZEMEN

1210n

DATE OR RANTIA

REVEN WITH SURGET, IN NOT, UNTRA

S SPOUSS UNDER CONTRACI LA IAMONDO AY MOrALT

MIMICTIVE DATE ON COVEN

COVER DATA

TiNARÃO

micias coma.

COVER SALMAY WHO ALOMANCES DO ME

PAY PARCO UNO DY COMRA

TYPE CA TAX: DOCUPIRATATION TO AN USURD AT COVIN

YeS

NO

X

КОМАНОВ

Onia romen

O YES, PROVIDA PSYUDONYM

тач.

NONOrICUL COMLA

PROPRISTANY

Dinto

COME PACITY CAVITÇNTA

pioniance

MONTHLY

10

MOFACT DATA.

MONACT TO AFPORT

COMMENTS

PAYMENT OF

COMMINSATION:

uncin cAro

HEADQUARTEAS

ENDEAD

INCOiD

DEVISED FACINTY

CEOUTAT #4

100

DEVISEO PACHITY

" SUEET I UNDiA MONOPACIAL COVER CONSUITATION VITH THE COVLAT TAX COMMITIRE IS NIGUIRIO

A TAX-ASSESSARENT

unce

Not Applicable

WW. NOT OS ASSIGN BY THE COVERT TAX ECHANITLE

*Prior to preparing Torn, call Mr. Reetz,

X5345, for addreas

- d social piece at be eithe detra.

APPROVAL

пласты

kur 38 • 473 -

DATE

6/25/69

DETREUTEN SVENLO ONE. TO UNICE OF PUNTE, COPY TO CENTRAL COVER: COPY TO PRE

or 313 a use pring rommions

SECRET

NOTE: DEFACH:THIS PORTION OF FORM AND DISTRIBUTE SEPARATELY

SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

SOCIAL

MACCAO ENOTATAMACOM HATE OM NONSE AREN

PROCEDURES

577-74-5127

ADDLISS OF RECORD (IN US)

ADORESS (Perorgo)

# Bee above

FOX* 313a USE PREVIOUS EOTRONI

DATAILUTION. SHANED ORME TO OSTICE DE FINANÍE, COPY TO CINTRAI COVER, COPY TO PRE

SECRET

N° 10392

OUSES SOCIAL "EQUATY NO

00)

---

## Page 54

4-00000

Empl & 064010

Per your request, the following is a breakdown of additional retroactive

salary for the perlod l March

-31 May 1977. This will be Included with normal

salary check for the nonth of June.

1,224.27

Fica

*20.40

Fedtax

401.10

stx

85.44

Net

717.33

GrOsR

2,750.00

Nou normal salary effective 1-30 June 1977 1s as follous.

Fica

•

Fedtax

608.07

Stx

170.08

Hosp

18.75

*Pice Max reached for tax year; Stopped offective. I June 1977

Het

1953.20

MICROFILMED

JULY 1977

---

## Page 55

4-00000

20 г.

DATE

REPLY REGUESTED

SPEED LETTER

2 May 1225

YES

LETTIN

To : Chief, CATD/OF

FROM:

OS/BaF - Edwin A.

Reetz

4E71 Hos.

ATIN: Special PayrOll aps - Sandy Smita

SUBJECT: Bruce A. BERTOTALLY 1064010 - Independent Contractor

Attached is an amendment to Subject's contract increasing

his compensation from. $23,750 to $25,250 per añnun effoctive

1 March 1975.

Withholding of North Carolina state tax should

be increased from $125 to 5130 per month concurrent with

the

effective date of this amendment.

I trust it

Is not too late

to include the increase plus adjustment for March with hiss

April pay.

Your

assistance: 1s appreciated

as always.

REPLY

KETURN TO ORIGINATOR

FOAM

3-68

1838

USE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS.

---

## Page 56

14-00000

Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

Mr. BERTOTALLY (P)

ruce

15!

BE

---

## Page 57

14-00000

SECHET

Mr. Bruce A. BER TOTALLY (P)

Dear Mr. BERTOTALLY:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government,

as represented by the Central Intolligence Agency, effective l March 1970.

Effective l March 1971 said contract is amended by revising the

first sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" to rcad as

followg::

"You will be compensatod by the Central Intelligence

Agency at the rate of Nineteen Thousand Five Hundred Dollars.

(19: 500.00) pes year."

All other terms and conditions of said contract remain in full force

and effect.

Please acknowledge by signing in the space provided below.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DOC MICRO, SER.

As Represented by the

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

By:

MICROFILMED

Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

IS/ Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

WITNESS:

ist Bruce L. Solie

Date: 12 February 1971

Date: 12 February 1971

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in the

Office of Security.

Eum A feel

Edwin

Reetz.

Chief,

Budget and Fiscal Branch

arrectif security

SEGIST

1219543450 20.02211

ivisti

---

## Page 58

Mr. Bruco A. BERTOTALLY.: C03T

Dear. Mr. Bertotally:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government,

as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective l March 1970,

as amended.

Effective I March 1972 said contract, as amended, is further, amended

as set forth below:

"(a) The first sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "CO-

PENSATION" is revised to read as followa:

"You will be compensated by the CIA at the rato of

Twenty-one Thousand Dollara ($21, 000) per ycar."

(b) Sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph six (6) entitled

"NEGOTIATED BENEFITS" is deleted, and in lieu thereof

the following is substituted:

"6(a): You presently have a private health insurance

plan for yourself and your wife. It is understood and agreed

that you will bear a portion of the total premium cost of said

plan; this organization will bear the remainder. Your portion

Is herein established at $12. 50 per month and will be deducted

from contractual payments due you.

The total annual premium

cost of said plan is presently $603.52. Il required, the

Government's portion may be paid yearly, in advance."

All other terms and conditions of said contract, as amended, remain

in full force and effect.

Please acknowledge by signing in the space provided below.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

As Represented by the

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

By:

Kenath C. Riskrach

Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

1S/ Bruce A. BERIOTALLY "

Dato: Fe lacenty 2l, 1911

WITNESS:

/s/ Bruce. L, Solie

Date: February 29, 1972

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in the Office

of Security.

1333

DOC. MICRO. SER.

Edwin A

eetz o.

Chief; Budgeland Fiscal Branch

Office of Security

MICROFILMED

---

## Page 59

SECRET

Mr. Brace A. BERTOTALLY (P)

Dear MI. BERTOTALLY:

Referonce la made to your contract with the UNITED STATES

GOVERNMENT, as ropresented by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY,

effectiva l March 196%. Elloctive ! March 1970 said contract ls herein

terminated by mutual conjent of the partios thereto.

and in lieu thereof

the following agreement la subatituted.

The UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, as represented by the

CENTRAL INTELLGENCE AGENCY, horeby contracts with you under

she following torma and conditions:

1 STATUS: Your legal etatus under this contract la that of so

ladependent contractor or consulast. You are not considered an employe

Of the UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT by virtue of this contract. You

will be required to hold yourself vallablo at all times to fallill requente

made of you by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY Or to rospond to

tasks requented of you by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENGY.

rom

398-

8lag la other & laful emplomont of occupation natu

has beau to

elvad from to GENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Instructton

houto you pursuant to top.comract.anc within the.tore

hereof chairb

aublader upon you sott included in the written torme

hereof.

COMMUNCATION to cl folationships with the CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY you will accept requests, tasks and relovant

instructions from an individual hereinatter referred to as the "Authorized:

Government Reprosent live. " Ho will be fully suthorized to discued

mattors with you relating to your responsibillies under this contract

including, but not limitod to, cover arrangements, place of asalgament.

conditions of work or any other mattore relating to your relatlongbip with

the CENTRAL INTELLIGENGE AGENCY..

3.

COVER AND SECULITY. In the porformance of your

responsibilities hereunder, aspropriate an ngements will be made

regarding cover and goneral security conditiong;

You may be requlred

to execute cortain documents in the course of ostablishing cover

arrangements but it is to be expreesly understood that such documents aro

solely for the purpose of cover and security and confer no additional

logal rights or obligatione and that all of your rights and obligations with

respect to the CENTRAL INIELLIGENCE AGENCY derivo solely from thia

agreèment..

In connection with cover and security you will be provided

from time to time speckite Instructions by the Authorkzed Government

Pepresentative and you will be required to adbero preclsely to such

instructions.

MICROFILMED

len 1:70

DOC. MICRO. SER.

SECRET,

Eximard san autuatio

---

## Page 60

COMPENSATION.

You will be compensated by the CENTRAL

INTELLIGENGE AGENCY at the sate of Eirteen Thousand Elre Hundred:

Dollaps (518: 502. 00l per yoar.. Prymõnt ol this compensation shall be

monthly in accordance with arrangements acceptable to the Authorlied

Goveriment Represertitive.

Thia jum is aubject to Federal lncomo taxes

and to such locome sax lawa an are spirlicable to your place of rosidence.

Additionally, tbia compongation la subject to FICA taxes.

The curront

rates and method of payment will be in accordance with applicable lams and

the security instructiona losued by the huthorized Government Representativo.

Payient of all taxes and preparation of neçeusary tax returns aro your

personal obligation and responsibility but in accord with approprlato socurity

Instructions wbich will be furniahed by the Authorized Goverament

Representative.

ALLOWANGESA

TRAVEL AND OTHER EXPENSES. If, la the

course of sultring your re

nobilies under this agreemont, monetary

Allowances"

would be payab

der general UNITED STATES

and regulatione, you will be paid auch monetary.

sHowance, In cubetantial accordance with those law, and regulations.

ta the courso of this contract, you are cirected to travel or are.

Nuthorized to lacur other

bursoment for

pennes will b

made by to GENTRAL D

CENCE AGENG le cubetanfiel accordane

With epplicable CENTRAL I

FELLICENGE AGENCY resulations

6. NEGOTATED BE

You present

ly have " prlyata hoalth lasurence plan for

yourself and your wito patd until late December 1970 Prior to

the exptration date of the current policy the GentrAl

INTELLIGENGE AGENCY has the option of paying premlume

on the current pollcy untli l March 1972 or enrotting you in &

soalth Insurance program for selected contract ladividunle

of the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY subject to

all the torms and conditions of that program.

The CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY will pay the Premiums on elther

Insurance coverago until I March 1972. However, any now

contract will Include an appropriate clause providing that tots

organisation will bear a portion of the total premlum coot of

any health insuranco and you will bear the remaledor.

The CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY will endeavos

to arrange for you to secure a term lug naurance pollsy with

a loco value of $15, 000. 00: This pollcy contans no additional

accidental death benefite.

The premiuma for the policy will

be your personal responsibilkys: The current premium chargo

to $i2. 00 per month.

MICROFILMED

!!'Lin 1470

DOC. MICRO. SER.

SECRET:

GisC

Ceratil tea tracin

6999=3. 9590

---

## Page 61

c. (1) Subject to the prioritles of work you are herein

authorized trenty-one. (21) work days vacation with pay per

contract year to be taken only at times and places approved

In advance by the Authorled Government Representative.

Vacation time is not accruable and will not bo carried over

from year to year. Payment for unused vacatlos ilme will

nöt be authorized.

(2) If Incapacitated for work due to Illness, injury

and the like, your compensallon may be continued for perloda

not to exceed a total of thirteen (13) working days por contract

усат.

Porlode of abaenco in excass of three (3) consecutiva

diya will require a doctor'a certificate.

Like vacation time,

this benelit la not accruablé and will not be carried over from

year to year.

• Cash payment in lleu of this beneflt will not bo

authorized.

7.

SECRECY OBLIGATION. You will be required to keep foreyer

socret this agreement and all Information which you may obtate by reason

horeof (unless roleased In writies by the CENTRAL INTELLIGÊNCE

AGENCY from luch obligation) with full knowladge that vtolation of such

secrecy may subject you to crumiraf

prosecution

under the gaptorage low

ted.

End other appitcable l

& rogulatione, Your relationsblp

TRAL INTELLICENCE ACENCY end

this contract must bo

you may not di coc any lae

poet of tole rolattonablp and

•con

Ropre

iy Person oth

than

tho

ed Government

ve or suchrother person

ho may speculically epprove:

83S UNAUTHORIZED COMMITMENTS. No promlaes or:

commitments portating to rights, prlvileges, or benefits other than those.

expressly atipulated in writing ln thie agreement or any amendment thercto

shall be binding on the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

9:

TERM.

Thie agreement ls effective de of I March 1970

Bhail bo for a term ot two (2) yearte

At the end of that period thla contract y

shall be deemed to be renewed for anothor year unleas nottce of

termination has been furnished to you thirty (30) days la advance.

Thereaftor the contract will be renewed automalically on similar forme

and conditiong.

This contract may be terminated at any time by either

party upon furalahling thirty (30) day advance notice. Upon termination

ot this contract or ronewalo thoroot, Including amendments, ll any, the

CENTRAL INTELUGENCE AGENCY Will undertake to audist you in

obtalning gainful employment or to provide continuteg compensation to

assure you that you will be able to malotaln a reasonable atandard of

living:

This undertaklag to contesent yoon your fulfillar the ferme of

MICROFiLMED

1il - n 1970

DOC. MICRO. SER.

GeS!

Easters Ma 212096

SECRET

---

## Page 62

4-00000

this contract and the continuing compllance with too secracy obligations

Imposed on you by paragraph 7 of this contracs and the grovibions of any

decrecy agreement which you have signed with the CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

UNITED SIATES GOVEKNMENI

As Hopresented by the

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

B y:

18/ Lennoth: C. Rushmack

Contractlag Officer

Date: 6 March 1970

ACCEPTED:

(S/. Bruce A BERTOTA!

WITNESS

IS/

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in the

Office of Security.

Scum GRee

Edwin A. Reetz

Chief,

, Budget and Fiscal Branch

Office of Security

19066

MICROFILMED

"lan 1970.

DOC. MICRO. SER.

SECHET

---

## Page 63

14-00000

Bruce A. BERTOTALLY (P)

Dear Mr. BERTOTALLY..

The UNITED STATES GOVERNIENT, as represenied by tho

CENTRIL INTELLIGENGI AGINGS, hereby contracts with you under

the following torme and condillone:

do STATUS:

Your logal afatus undes thilo contract. in that of an

Indopendent contractor or consultant. You are not conoldered an

employe, of the UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT. by virtue of thie

contact. You will be roguired to hold yoursell aralable at all times

nude of fouty de CENTRAL INTELLICENCE AGENCY

On do 19 Pond to lonky requested of you by to CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE.

AGENCY You will retrate from ons asles in other asinful omploym

or occupation until approval bae, boon recolved from the CENTRAL.

INTCLLIGENCE AGENCY, Instructions furniched to you pursuant to

this contract and witals the terma hereof shall be ao binding upon you

an if lncluded la the written terma hercof

2 COMMUNICATION. In all relationahlps with the CENTRAL

INTELLIGINCE AGENCY you will accept requeeta, tuske and rolevant

instructions from as individual herolaatter referred to an the

"Authorised Govern

nent Roprodotatives" He will bo fully authorizod

to discuse martero wch you rotating to your responsibilities undor ente

contract lacludiag.

but not Limited to, cover arrangemente, place of

assignment conditione of work or any other matters relating to your

selationship with the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

3. COVER AND SECURITY. ' In the parformance of your

responsibillites hereunder, appropriate arrangements will be made.

regarding cover and general security conditions.

You may be required

MICROFILMEO

18SS-01979

DOC, MICRO. SER

---

## Page 64

to execute cortala documente is the corree of establlabing comer.

arrangements but lt la to be'exprasily eateritood that auch documenta

aro sololy for the purpose of cover and decurity and conlos nó additional

logal rights or obligattons and that all el your righto and obligatlans with

respect to the CENTRAL INTELLIGIIGI AGENCY derive solely froma

this agroaniont. In connection wilb congs and securlty you will be

providad iron time to time speckle tetenctions by the Authorised:

Govorament Ropropontaure and you nes to regulred to adhero procleoly

to such laétractione.

4. COMPENSATION, You Mil se compone ediby the GENTRA

INTELLIGENGE AGENCY u the mool Shaken Thousand Five Hundred

Dollara

31$16

Sog, 001 per yo

Reynoss of thie compens

stop shall bẻ

monthly la accordanco with arrangenest, noceptable to the Authorized

Government Representative, Thie gun la subject to Federst lecome

faxes and to such Income tax laws an are applicable to your place of

realtence.

Additionally, this compentaton lo subfect to NICA taxos.

The current rates aed method of pageant seth be la accordanco with

applicable lawe and the security instrections lasted by the Authortzed

Government Roprocentadve, To nastes you in establlahing yourself, the

CENTRAL INTELLIGENGE AGENC'S will asslot you in procurles an

iutomobile and recedeary honschold fecalstungs, providing funds therelor,

up to a marium of Eight Thoudand Dodoro 198, 000,00% Payment of alle

taxes and preparation of neceava

your personal

obligation and responsiblity but in accord with appropriate securty

Inotructions which will ba furnlibed by fee Authorized Government

Ropresentativa.

MICROFILMED

lIL=n 1970

DOC. MICRO. SER

---

## Page 65

14-0000

5. PLACE DE RESIDENCE. Is the intereits of security, you will.

be required to liva la such State, ires, and houra or apartment as is

specifically approved by the CINTIL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY after

mutual discussion and due consideration of all circumstancas. All of

the expanses of such leased house or apartment will be borho by you and

the CENTRAL INTELUGENCE AGENCY will not be obligated to pay any

such expens

6. ALLOWANGES, TRAVEL AND OTHER EXPENSES:

If, la the

courge of fulfilling your rasponsibilities under this agroement, monetary

allowances would be payable under general UNiTED STATES

GOVERVVENT pulas, and regulations, you will be pald auch monetary.

abovances la substantial accordance with those lowe and regulations.

It, In the courds of tolo contract, you are directed to travel or aro

authorited to incur other expenced, reimbursement for expenaes will

be made by the CENTRAL INTELUIGENGE AGENCY la substantial-

accordance wit applicable CENTRAl INIELLIGENCE AGENCY

regulations.

7. HOSPITALIZATION AND MEDICAL CARE. The CENTRAL

INTELLICENCE AGENCY will provide you with reasonable insurance

covering medical care and hospitalization équivalont to that which could

be obtained ebrougs standard insurance policied; or, the CENTRAl

INTELLIGENGE AGENCY may provide direetly auch medical care aad

hospitalization:

8. SECRECY OBLIGATION: You will bo required to keep foreves

secret this agreement and all information which you may obtain by reason

hereol (unidas released in writing by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

AGENCY from such obligation!; with full knowledge that violation of such

=3-

MICROFILMED

.!!L - n 1970

DOC. MICRO. SER.

---

## Page 66

socrecy may subject you to criminal proseculion under the esplanaza laws.

as smonded, and other applicable lawd and regulations. Your relationship.

with the CENTRAL INTILLIGENCE AGENCY and this contract must bo

kept nacrel and you may aoi discuss any aspect of thia rolatiosship asd

contract with any parsas other than the Authorlzed Government

Representative of such other porson no he may specilically approve.

9. UNAUTHORIZED COMMITMENTS; No promloer.os

commitmento pertaining to rights, privileges, os benefits othor than those

exposely atipulated in welting la thle agreement or any amendment thoroto

shall de blading on the CENTRAL INTELLIGENEZ AGENCY.

19: TERY. The agreement is elective as of l March 1969

and shall to for a terre of one ll yout. Al the end of that perlod bl

contract shall be deemed to be ronewed for another your untoss nonco of

termination has been furlebed to you thirty (301 days In advance of elie

olapse of one ill year, Theroater the contract will be renowed automatically

on similar terms ind conditions. This contract may be terraipated at any

time by olthor party upon furalahing tbirty (39) days advance notico. Upon

termination of thile contract of renewals thereof, Including amondmenta,

1f any.

tho CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY will undertake to acsist

you in obtainind gainful employment on to provide continulag compengation

to adeure you that you will be able to plaintaions coasonable etandied of

living: Thie undertading is contingent upon your fulliling the terme of

this contract and the continuing compilance with the secrecy obligations

MICROFiLMED

'IL =n 1970

DOC. MICRO. SER.

---

## Page 67

14-00000

imposed or you by paragraph 8 al this contract and the provisiona of

aay secrocy agreement wilch you have signed with the CENIRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENGE.

U'NTIED SINTES COVERNMENT

As Reprosented by the

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENÇY

By.

Kennett: Runhwah.

Contractiog Olilco

ACCERI

WIT

Date

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in the

Office of Security.

44, 77

Howard Clair

HOWARD J:

DIRECTOR OF

EcuRITy

MICROFILMED

'L=n 1070

DUC MICRO. SER.

-5-

KESTET

---

