# 104-10263-10111

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10263-10111

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND DO: TOM

UNCLASSIFIFD

CONFIDESTIAL

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALI

Are planet Paus

Commut. Wheate

to sil fault part

date per said A lure Alka.

ell you folfe this apests

ACTION

DIRECT REPLY

APPROVAL

DISPATCH

COMMENT

FILE

CONCURRENCE

INFORMATION

Remarkas

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

POLD HERE TO HE

"ROMI NAME, ADD

UNCEASYIFIED

999ª 237 via provous adition

---

## Page 2

4-00000

1566

TOM:

I'm nor ruerly enthusiistic alnut

sha possibilltles of getting much from

SKEMEF -1: novaver, Ironle ilio io nece

him and chat about his friends and business

associates In the M/L Islands. la posalbly

might be used as an entree to reporting

ör support ussets.

It mould be my opanion thas ma would

not hove to bring his clearance up in dure

so chac wich him.

Paul

L

---

## Page 3

14-00000

A4. 201

S-E-C-P.-F•T

(then Filled In)

SKEWER I

Reced on

SACaids

MEMTRANDLAI FOR: DOCO/SA

ATTENTION

: Onlo We Allos

SUBJECT

Shiß, Luis Alsas

205 62

"la Daferenco 10 sado to your sebarandus dated 5 Jabary 1965

Falan requested a Covert Security Approval de granted Subject for

DE10f1AE On KUBARK Objectives 1n HUBRUMY D and propOse LODg tora

Bossrolal callaboration of sutuel adrestage, project HuBrIn.

In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine

Services Instruction No, 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction -

Field No. 10-5,

a Covert Security Approval is granted for the use of

the Subject as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1,

above.

3.

Subjects of Covert Security Approvals are not to represent

themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

Your attention is called to the fact that a Covert Security

Approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions

if you should desire at a later

date to change the status or use of this individual, a request for.

approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this

¿ This approval becones invalid in the event the subject's

services are not utilized within six months of the date of this

senor endin.

- for. P.s. Apartnis

Vletor R. White

Deputy Director of security (INS)

Good-R-JoT

when Filled In

---

## Page 4

14-00000

C-0-f-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

When

Filled In

128520.21

3a See 194f

Review of 201 File on U.S. Clelzen

In accordance with the Do's notice of 9 Deceaber 1974,

I have reviewed the 201 file on

(aurname.)

(201 number indicated below), and haveletermined that it can

most accurately be categorized as indicated below

should be closed.

.

witting collabor

tor.

oI Code Al.

potential witting collaborator; date opened

oI Code A2.

former

vitting collaborator (relationship terminated

oI

Code A3. - Perhaps

still some DED waleust-file

not olear.

potential witting collaborator

reasons, derogatory Information).

never contacted (security

oI code n4.

counterintelligence case (1.e.,

Involving a forelgo

Intelligence

or

security service).

o1 Code A3,

all othera..

oI Code A6.

signed

This assign

This docurant

Sut of Atten

(ritle)

ne of category has been

entered Into STAR.

Tate, JAN 1915

1o a parmanant part of

this f1le,

I. SECHE

Whon B1llad In

@=0-N-7-1-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

101-5205V2

IMPDET

CL BY 224922_

L

---

## Page 5

4-00000

i. 201

S-E-C-P.-F.-T

(then Filled In)

SKEWER 1

Reced on

MEMPRANDUNI FOR:

DOCO/SA

ATTENTION

: Celo W. Allos

SUBJECT

BARB, Luis AlveM

1275 621

Wich requested a Covert Security Approval be granted Subjeçt for

brefing on KUBARS Objectives 1a WUBRIIT D and propose long tera

In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine

Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction •

Field No. 10-5, a Covert Security Approval is granted for the use of

the Subject as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1,

ubjects of covert security Approvals are not to represen

hemselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CiA

Your attention is called to the fact that a Covert Security

Approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions

of CIA Regulation 10-3.

date to change the status or use of this individual, a request for

if you should desire at a later.

appamil to cover any proposed clange should be submitted to this

mis approval becones invelid in the cant the Subject's

services are not utilized within six months of the dato of this

#спотепсит.

for

Victor R. White

Deputy niroctor if security (InS)

But: to

# th

(When Filled In)

---

## Page 6

14-00000

.."?

Ikzwer/201

26 January 1965

MEIORANIUM FOR THE RECORD

SKEWER'1.

in agrees in nis il january 1905 meeting witi

suward stanulia telephoned SKEdErl on th

morning or la january to irrange a meeting wich siEver/i

at his convenience later in the day.

SKEWER/L suggested

meeting at 1500 hours that afteroon in his office at

the Puerto RIcan Iron works in lonce.

He indicated to

Mo. Stanula that tha fuerto jican Cement Company looks

with faros on AMCO and la dolng buBlness wich le through

Ita Managar, MI. Alvin I. Philpotts, JI.

prior to the meeting, ''esare. Allen,

and

SKEWER L Ir

that no mentlon would he made of the fact that inco lo in

poor financlal conultion or that i5.

Philpotta da Inade-

quate as a manager.

stress would be laid spon assestment

of the lang-tenn

of AiGO because

a managerial position in lico, or some other similar fira,

In order so monitor Castro's activitias in the Caribbean

ALBE.

MauBrs. Allen, Carter, and Stanulde affived

elsely as 1500 hours et S"EVER'a office on the second floor

of tha fuarto rican Iron vorka.

His male secrotary asked

us to take seats In the coriicor outsiue his office.

Wthin a few minutee his segretary reappeared and asked us

to walt in the conforence ioom.

Some ten minutes later

SKEWEl appoared and invitad un into his private office.

Ho wan extremely cordial and gracious. MI.

stanulis 1nc10.

duced ME.

Allon as a colleague uho 18 assegalrg AMCO'& cOM

meielal vlability.

le Introducod MI. Carter as a Inwyer

consultant

who 18

obtaining background Infosmation in tha

AVCE KUjARK should daelda to proceed with placement of an

officar la Alco.

SECRET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

......!•

•20

MI. Allen Inforned SKEWERL thaT SUBiRK lA aBBeS&LAg

the factors

bearing on the long-tem co-mercial viability

of ArCO.

le explained that such an assessnent la necessary

because killAki does not want to place an officer in a

company which is not commerclally viable for the long

tenu.

one of the lactors beering on tie commercial

via-

balley of nico 18 the relationship of the Puerto iscan

Cement company with inco and the terns of any agreements.

wa would also like his views on commodietes otler than

cement misci can vi dilupeù idun luesto taão to the cutes

Lalands and what comnoúlties can be ahlpped on return

voyages.

Mothor factor of Interest la competition in the

shipping field.

SKEiER/1 Indicated that ile needed some clarifi.

cation of MUBARi objectives.

tir. stanulls reviewad kubAir's

ostensible Interest. in having an exportonced comercial man

In a commercially viable shipping company or the purpose:

lof checkine on Cassro activitles in the Carlbbean area.

SKEWER/L

assumed that Mr. Flllpotta was the man in whom

we are interestad.

Me. Allen sispelled this assumption

explalning that KUBARi has a candidate whom we would like

to placo in a managerial position in N1CO 1f 1I 1a cateI

ulnad thnt rico da commercially viablo.

a atroct thir placement through a filend on the board wita,

las helped jubait in the past une woule

undoubtedly help again.

SiLE. ER/1 801d,

"Oh, yes, through

the cop man in the comparsy."

lie then asked if iix. ihilpotts

would know or KUBARK interest.

Allen replled no,

emphasizing that our interest should be closely held.

в.

SKEwER/l said that he had not realized that we

wanted

so much dotall, and asked if we desiras to talk. with

tho man in his company most familiar with nico.

Mr. Stanulla

declined, emphasizing that we wanted to keep our Interest

sit this matter contined solely to SkEwER/1.

SKELER 1 In-

abulately agreed to make the neccesary telepione calls to

obtain answers to our questions.

in the basis for his

he would ask about the anount of credle extencod

oy the puerto

ilean Cement Company to A109.

SKEWER, then

mado a Betles of telephone calle

to one of his subordinatos

namod Torang and also mace one call to hla son.

The following

Information was abradnod in the above talephono callo:

ANCO has 2 or 3 slilps under charter nd shipo

primarily coment to r'artinque, duadaloupe,

Barbados,

and intigue.

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

The uerto

• Rlean sement Company has a

varbal agriencht with :I. ihilpotta grantin: hila

oxclusive ilstribution of cement in insualoupe,

Barbados, anú Antigua.

and la slou in payment.

The ruertO Rlean Coment compuny 1a currently

axenining. how much eraust 1t can extend to Alico.

In shis connoction the company 18 exanining whether

cradle extended to Micú can be tnoured under the

(FCIA insuras

export crodit.)

If so, the risk to tha

Paorto flean Cement Company would be reduced and

furthes creilt could be extended.

133,000 bage of CoRE to me.

The Puerto Rlean Cement Company has 80ld

SKEWER/1 Beld that Mr. Philpotts 18 aggrossive

md that he la pushing fuerto Rican coment.

MI.

Carter:

aked SkEwER/1 if his fim were worrled niout the amount

of ercult extendeú to AMco. StENEil reDiled timt MiC)

• trying to help the mierto flcan Cament company ans

verto Rican cement 1s in tum trying to help aNco.

SKEWER/l Imparted tha Impression chat he has absolute

confidence in his suvordinatos.

In calling

Tomas,

SKEWER/L

said to uß that ha had zone over the head

of his son.

SKEWER 1 WaS not awara that MICO PUBItO RICO 1A a SUDELdIer

O! AMCO Panana.

When apprised of this fact, he sale that

sals arrangament is probably for tax purposas.

SKEWER/L

loft the Impression that he conaldera NICO as a luerto lilcan

ie recalled chat he had

whom no one else would nire.:: it. Imbert now

shipping company and SEWER/l suggarted thet ve 298ess 118

peration

He recalled that Me.

bout harboring a criminal

his own business as would SKEwiNt.

that KullArk would not want to condluer Freu Imierc's opera-

Throughout the conversation; the ploture amorged

of a man

who trusts his subordinates and who would help an

individual or flam,.

Erying to help hit left oularly iuerto liloan, witch is alro

SECRET

---

## Page 9

14-00000

Sa..:i

rit. Allen sold that we sould assess the

altuation carefully, and la the event lt should be

eterined to proceed, be would sirlse mim. mir. Alle

norns hin thiat two lew York firma have Investe

sanely,

' Gs ides and company, anu traln.

cabot and issociates:

our frlend do it.

Train, sto

as no suribad, la the top sun in nlo fimm.

Mr. Alien

revealeù tile Infomatlon to scariil in the event

that 18 should be daemad destrable for is. Irala to

nogotiate wich tits juerto ilcan Cement Company. Con-

with any other partielpants.

sKEvINd offered full

ilo had arrangod bla acheculo. to Elve ue

an mesch time as

In our prosence he recalved

a relophone call in which

necessath he apologized for cancelling

SKEWER l can bo

trusted and

whil holp kulli in any way

на сат.

CALE W.

ALLON

DOCO/ SA

Distribution:

0r18.

• Ора

file

WUBRINY D FIle

• SKEWER/1 201

chrono

SECRET

1799

---

## Page 10

4-0000

SECRET

13 JACKETY 1465

MEMDRANDUM FOR: The Becord

SUBJECT:

PrOjeCt HUBRINY-Anllios Matariala Company, L1d..

Diaccasion by Mr. Edward Stanullo with SKEWERIl.

1, I mado faltial colophoals contact wils SKEWIR/I at approximataly

1100 hoara on 10 January 1465 and made arrangoments los a meatlag la ssy

botal room lor tha followlag day betwean the houre of 1600 and 1700 8o bo

followed by another on juanciay di a lino diújiors its: sould ba converione

fOr SKEWIR/!. Lator la the day SKEWER/l Informed me that ho would bo

mablo to moos mith un on Iuonday no ho was loartag by air on the arealas

af ll January for a pastes of appointmento in the States.

8. Tha moollag wilh SKEWER/I was hold in my hotel room at 1644

LOUrS DA ll JaRUATY. I told SKEWER/l that as ho krow, one of KUBARK'S

primo laformation largots la Latin Amertes concoraod tho activildos of

Castro'a Cuba and lhas la lala connocion sume of our people had boos

chinking los soma ilma thas it would be most useful in purauing this roguiro.

ment to bare antroo lato abipplag insareera that mere active in Caribbean

MAROrA. SKIWERI! sald he thought this idea excollent. i lurther arated

shas those people had beard that SKEWER l'E dirm was discussing the poodl-

Billty of entertag into an exclusivo Caritionan distributor ship contrace wilb

Alvin I. Pallpotta, 35., Who do nanociatod with the Antilles Masorialo

Compaay, Led. S.1. of Panama and Puerto Rico, and asked him 1í he bad

asy knomlodgo of the indinidual or the negotiations, SKEWER/l roplied

thas bo did sos know. of either, but that ble son would bo familiar with bors.

8. I asked SKEWER/1 1l ho would be willing to investigato the sita-

ation discreally without mentioniag any interess on HUBARK's part and ei

the same ilmo conaidur the commarcial feasibility of the venture for AMco.

to agreed..

1, La alaboratiag on tha bable concops, I lold SKIWER/l that 1l the

propor mastelme lirm more locatod (that la, one that may be floundering

now bat bas commercial vlability potential), ma world be intorontod in

placing mish the company an individual who possanses the sacansary com.

sorela! background quallfications. and also has the capability of accompli-

shing corteda KUBARK roquiremonis.

SKEWER/! sotarated his conviction

that the concept do an axco.

leas one and nald ho would do all in his pomas so

SECRET

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

balp KUBARK schlavo talo objectivo.

5. I fald bim thar 1 mould appreciate bia cooperaton la meatlag

alla too of my irlondo uho are more lully versod in those mattero.

He agroad and not tha meeting for Monday, 19 Januasy 1965. SKEWER/I

save me ble unliated polvaso talaphoro numiar and suggested that 1 cos.

fact aim Monday moraio8, 19 January 1963, 8o 808 Elme and place 10%

the mocking. The number do 882-2120.

5. Ao STANULIS

Distrinallons

Ori8. --C/DO/SA

ADCDOICO

Cele W. Allen

1WÜBRINY/OPS

BA WUBRINT/D

V1- SKIWER/1.201 111e

SECRET

---

## Page 12

4-00000

Hand!

= Stewe: 201

I February 1965

Sase Officer Comment:

The meeting wit.i SKEVERl confirmed MI. Philpotts®

report that his relations with the Puerto Pican Cement

Company are good.

It also revezied the terms of the

a ten said pallotte to can cement, many

Philpotte had not mposted in docali

to

WUBRINY/2.

It 18 obvlous that ir. Philpotts has

sold himself to certain officials in che Puerto rican

Cement Company who have the confidence of the Company's

cop management.

The extent to.uhich.Mr. Philpotts may

have conned other businessmen Into extending credit

and the amount of sch

credit is a key factor for in-

rest-gation by wuBRINY/1 and 12, and fir.. Malla on theis

Sorthcoming trip.

It 18 feared that Mr. Philpotts hai

Incurred so many debts that the firing of Mr. Pillpotte

and reorganization of AMCO would be prohibitively

expensive.

GALE W.

Ai,LEN

DOCO/ SA

SECKET

---

## Page 13

4-00000

SECRET

1 February 1965

Case Officer Comment:

The meeting with SKEWER1 confirmed Mr. Philpotts'

report that his relations with the Puerto Rican Cement

Company are good. It also revealed the terms of the

reLationship

between the Puerto Rican Cement Company

and ANCO which Mr. Philpotts had not reported in detail

to HUBRINY/2. It is obvious that Mr. Philpotts has

sold himself to certain officials in the Puerto Rican

Cement. Company who have the confidence of the Company's

The extent to which Mr. Philpotts may

and the amount of such credit is a key factor for in-

vestigation by WUBRINY/l and /2,

and Mr. Malia on their

forthcoming trip.

It. l8 feared that Mr. Philpotts hie

Incurred so many debts that the firing of Mr. Philpotte

and reorganization of AMCO would be probibitival?,

expensive.

Hale W. allen

GALE W. ALLEN.

DOCO/SA

SECRET

---

## Page 14

14-00000

14 January 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECI: Antilles Materials Company, Led.

1. Mr. Ed Stanulls telephoned MI. Allen at

bome from San Juan

Puerto Elco,

on lL January 1965

He met with SKLWER/1 as scheüuled at 3 r.M.

SKEWER'1

was not faniliar with any negotlations between the

ruerto ilcan cenent company and NiCo but agreed to

look quietly into the matter.

call to Pí Cement'& Sales Manager before he left

for New dirk.

SKEVCr/1 sald that he had such a heavy.

schedule on chis trip,

*and Connectage, pee he eula not

squeeze In a celling with UnARi representatives. - H

ould, however, ba glad to neet with KuBAri represente

aLIves In Puarto Rico on l8 January 1965.

This delay

would also enable him to Investigate thoroughly the

status of negotiations wich alico.

2.

Mr. Staralls Bald that he had followed the

revously agreed approach to siever t

He emphasized®.

Shat KUBARK i8 interested in AMC) only to the extent

that a feasible commercial arrangement can be worked

so that placement of an officer in AMCO to borde

ile Indicated that A'CO

Is not doing too well financially and that the question

is whether it can ba resutrected on a sound commercia

baals.

MI. Stanulis Informed SKEVR/1 that KUBAKK 1S

aol Interisted in taking an equity position in AMco.

MI. Stanalla.afflimed unequivocally.to.uI.

2e i tro aything to help tina, partie, any

agarnet Ouba.

Ms, Stanulle all untte a report upon

astival in washington en er about 13 Jauary 1965.

GALE Wo ALLEN

Or 81

• Ope islo

subj.

BEWARE 201

• chrono

SECRET

---

## Page 15

4-00000

S-B-C-R-F-I

(Whes Filled In)

MEMORANDUM FOR: DOCO/SA

14 tôt

ATTENTION

:Gala W. Allen

FROM

Deputy Director of Security (Intests-

gations and Operational Support)

SUBJECT

illili, Antonio Inis

8450. 945.

1.

Reference is nade to your senorandun dated 1 JaslaTy 1964

Which requested a Provisional Covert Security Approvel to permit Subject,

President,

Puerto Rican Cement Coupany, to be made witting of Agency Interest

17 HUBRINY/D in tbe event his father, a cleared Agency coutact, desires to

discass with Subject this Interest.

2.. In accordance with the provislons set forth in Clandestine

Services Instruction Nö.: 10-5 and Clandestine Seriices Instruction -

Feld No. 10-5, a ProTinional Covert Securlty ApproTal 18 granted IOT

the use of the subject as described in your request as set forte in

paragraph 1, abore.

Into coufisas a verbal POSA grassted 5 January 1965.

Bubjecte of, Proviaional Corert Becurlty Approrale are not to

represent themseires an, nor are they to be represented as, employeen

of CIA.

4.

Your attention la called to the fact that a Provisional Covert

Security Approval does not constitute completo compliance with the

provisions of CIA Regulation 10-3. Therefore, 11 you should desire at

a later date to change the statua or use of this individual, a request

for approval to cover any proposed change abould be sumbitted to this

orsica.

vithin go day of the date of tile eora dia.

This approtal bocanes Intalid in the event action lu lut taber

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF BUCURITY:

R.S. Sparlini

fer vsotor n. vasto

ДоД-О-ров-т

GROUP 1

Exaluded From Auto-

matio

doragrading and

deolassifloation

---

## Page 16

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATINE ACTION

PLEASE

Palaara dood6000y

COUPLETE LACH SIGTION UND API COTTIATI BULLI

70:

7 January 1964

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL ANO SUPPORT DIVISIGN

FROM:

CHIRE, IAVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION. OFFIFE OF SECURITY

CHIEF. PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION. OFFICE OF SECURITY

SUBJECT:

(8eu0 s800)

Antonto Luis Perre

2000/ SA

PRESiET

HUBRINY

CI/DA FILE DO.

DI 801 81L6 n0.

450

OPCRATIONAL APPROVAL

COVERT

SECURITY APPROVAL

COvE

1.

ТУРЕ

ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL PROPRICTANY APPROVAL

PROPRITA АРРАСУЛЇ

CONCAT. NAME CHECK

BRICIAL INOUIAY (SO liold Inreerigarion)

CONTRACT TYPE A

ARRA OF USE

United States-Puerto Rico

DO PULL OSTAILO

Of USE

SO f1le

Desire pOSA in che event his lachediscuss with hia dbali interest in

number 215627, desires to

a cleared KUBA contact, 201-205712

WUBRINY/D.

Subjoct 13 President, Puerto Rican Caze:.t

Ponce, Puerto Rico, U.S. eltizen.

information.

will seek addi siorai blogsaphle

•. INVESTIGATION AND COVER

NO U.DO BOVBRMMEHT INTRARAT MAY DE BHONN DUMIMO IMVERTIGATION!

YES"

NO

a. CIA INTERENT MAY DE SMONA DURINO IMVESTIDATIONI

C. J8 SUBJECT AWARE ON U.U, DOVCANMENT INTERERT IN MIMI

DO 18 BUBJEGS AMARR OR CIA INTEREBT IN MIMI

INDICATE ANY GIMITATIONO OM COVERAGE. IN THE INVESTIGATION OR SUBJECT.

BUBEEAT "COVIA PRETENT" TO BE USED IN COMDUCTINO PERIONAL

IMVEN:: GATSUi OF BaDaLiT,

O. DO YOU

IF NO

РЬАМ ТО ВіДКЕ

JECT WITTIMO ON AGENCY OR DOVERMMENT INTERESTI

INVGSTIDATION OUTBIDI

CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

I NO

PRO AND GREEN

SQUIVALENT, IM 128 COPIES

ATTACHRO

IN (1S COPY ATTACHEO

STATUS

PRO II WILL BE FORDANURO

GALiA LIST ATTACHIN.

NO NICORO

RECORD

WILL TORNARD

RI THACES

MOM-DEROGATORY

1, DIVISION TRACFS

MON- DEHOGATORT

..

FIELD TRACES

DERODATGAY

OKRODATONY ATTACHED

RECORD

DEMUNITORY

IMPO.

HOT INITIATEO

anarlan)

БІОМАТМЕ U GA ОРРОСКА

Gale lie illon, DOCO/SA

R076 772 881-1698:000

BATAMDION

DIONATUME DS BRANCH CHI:A

11-61961

Norman G. 5116C, C/0930/54

SECRET

---

## Page 17

14-00000

Slewer 11

13 January 1965

MEWORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECI: Antilles Materials Cepany, Ltd.

Messri. Allen and Carter set on 8 Jaruary 1965 ulth MI.

Edward Stanulls,

contact skateR/ on the loch.

Fopefully SKEWER/1 could obicia

Information on regotiationa vetiraen Puerto Rican Concut Con-

pany and ANCO in time for a meetirg with Messrs Stanulis,

cilen,

and Carter on 12 January.

Mossis.

Allen and Carter would plan

co arrive in San Juan at 10:50 P.Ml. on 11 January.

2.

Mr. Stanulls rould apprise SKEVER/1 of KUBARK's Inter-

est in placing a KUBARK officer in a coall shipping and trad-

Ing company operating in the Caribbean area in order to conitor

Cuban activities.

SKEWER/1 rould be cautioned to keep this.

knowledge confidential.

in chis conrectzon, Mr. Stanulis said

chos stever/s had proved to be abcolutely rellable irca the

security point of view.

"iz.

Starlis scald edvise SKEWER/1

Chat KUBARK 15 Icoling it ANCO tich is negorjating with the

Pueito Rican Carent Corpay to ba its conzat distributor in

the Caribbean area.

skewin/s would be asked to confirm any

negotiations and the tosas involvid.

his ansters would be

given in the cubsequent -assing with Mezces. Stanulis, Allen,

one detes teeters

Further discuscion with SKElER/l rould be condi-

tioned on

in shy casa KUBAR representatives

would ascertain his vicus on the validity of AlCo's commercial

consept and ci. any possibility for cozercial collaboration

batweon PR. Ccuent and Mico.

Ax. Scarulle c. 10 Jaruary 1965 telcoko: i-#s. Allon

January. his.

Stanulls till isy to got a flight out of

SKEWER/1.

Stanullo 10 staylig at the Hotal Da Vinci,

"oon 81.

SEGIST.

---

## Page 18

14-10000

SKEVER/1 will be staying in New York at the Hotel Savoy Plaza.

MI. Allen insediately telephoned KI: Carter, 941-2802, and

advised him of the change in plato.

Eric 18. Alle.

Gale

Allen

DOCO/ SA

COCO! SA:GWA: jev (13 Jan. 1965)

Distribution:

Subject

• WUBRINY OpS

• SA Chrono

SKEWER/1

---

## Page 19

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL GO INVESTIGATIVE MOTION

¿Alaayo

hardcarry& copy of shin

S0г0)

PLEASS COUPLETE INCA SECTION AND APPROPRIATI ILLNI

SAiG

Subjest

3 January 15:5

TO:!

LiGERATIONAL APPROVAL ANO SUPPURT DIVISIEN

¡ Fad:!:

MICHIEF. INVESTIGATION iNO SUPPORT DIVISICS, GEFICE CE SECURITY

CHIEF.

PERSONNEL SECLRITY DIVISION. OFFICE CE SECURITY

SUBJECT:

Price nooed Luis Albert Ferre

CRYPTONYM, PSELSONIM, AKA OR ALIASES

20C3/S4

PREDICT

1.222.2

Gilonfici

6÷02943

30:

202-263/22

PROVISIONAL

OPERATIONAL

APPROVAL

OPERATIONAL

APPROVAL

X.

PROVISIONAL

COVERT

SECURITY APPROVAL & DEC. 05

COVERT

SECURITY APPROVAL

CONTRACT TYPE A

1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

PROPRICTADY APPROVAL

COVERT NAME CHECK

SPECIAL INaMON giO field invariitation)

CONTRACT TYPE B

8. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

United States - Puerto 3ico

S. MULL DETAILS OF USE

The Puerto Rican Cement Company 1s Interested In having HoRiNY D as

its overt distributor in the Caribscas area.

Dasiao ¿o

bries Subject

on KUBARK objectives in WUBRINY 5 and tropose long tein commercial

collaboration of mutual advantage

O53

the KUB:2K officers doing

the briefing will be the new marajer of

JUBRINY Daid continuing contact

with Susjeci. Previously investi:

ited

2.. INVESTIGATION ANO

COVER

YES

NO

A. U.] ~ GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATIONI

D. ClA INTERIST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATIONI

C. I8 SUBJECT ANARE OF U.S. GOVEANMENT INTEREST IN MIMI

O, I8 SUBJECT ANARE OF CLA INTEREST IN MIMI

S• INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE. IN THE INVRRTIGATION OF SUBJEGT.

P. SUGGEST "COVIR PRETEXT" TO DE UBRO' IN CONDUCTINO PERBONAL INVESTIGATION Of SUBJECi.

DO: YOU PLAN TO MAKE BUOJECT WITTINO OF AGGHSY OR GOVERMMENT INTERESTI

IN MO INVESTIDATIÓN OUTBIDE. GIA, EXPLAIN PULLY

PRO HID GREEN LIST STATUS

IN CAI COPIRO ATTACHED

•IN (11 COPY ATTACHED

RECORD

FORWARD

ARCOAD

MiLL PONMARO

NO

MO

"HO

BE FORWARDCO

BREEN LIOT ATTACKED. NO. LUDESI

RI TRACtS

HON• DERS ITORY

DIVISION THACES

NON: DEROGATORY

FIELD TRACES

WILL FORWARD

UKNOGATONY ATTACHED

SIONIMISAMT INFORMATICH ATTACHÃO

CERCOATURY ATTACHED

ORANGATOSY ATTACHED

lanallan?

LONATURE OF

Gala le

Fond 772 888

OFFICEN

DORO/ SA

EXTAMBION

BICHATURE SP DRANCH SILKY

11-61251

NUTIAN G. SWIEE, C/DOCO/S&

SECRET

---

## Page 20

14-00000

SHEET

3 January 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Luis Albert Ferra (201-205712)

1.

WH/2/Dominican Republie holds Subjeci's file

unich. has been loaned to DO/SA.

Mr. Allen

on 5 Jaruary.

1965 telephoned the DR Desk Officer, Mr. David McGrath,

and explained that DO/SA would like to make Subject wit-

ting of KUBARK interest in HUBRINY D.

Mr. McGrath said

that the Desk is not now using Subject and that it has

no objection to DO/SA briefing

subject.

He asked that

@ memorandum covering the contact be prepared for inclu•

sion in the Subject's file.

20

MI. Allen on 5 January 1965 informed DO/Security

that DO/SA desires to make Subject witting of KUBARK

Interest In WUBRINY D.

A PCSA had previously been granted

on 8 December 1964 with the understanding that a CSA can

be quickly obtained because of the existing O/A on him.

DO/Security sald that necessary action for a CSA would

be undertaken at once and that he foresees no problem.

He W. Allen

Gale: W. Allen

GWA: Jev

blatribution:

Subject file

WUBRINY Opa

1

WUBRINY D

Chrono

ding 1cd

SEGRET

---

## Page 21

4-00000

130

9 sace-ber 195l

MEMORANDUN FOR TELE RECOND

SUBJECIS Iuis Albert ERRE

DO/Security informed ir. Allen on 8 Decenbes 1964 that a POSA

has been grented on Subject, Subject's alice of Security falo sumbor

10 215627. Do/Security further advised that 1f Subject kas to be

made witting of Agency interest 11 HUBRINY D, then a CSA can be

quickly obtained because an 01 las previously issued on. subgect....

She 1s Allen

Gale l. Allen

TWA/ go

Distributions

Vo-suby 11le

:J = WUB ops

dio sa abrono

L

---

## Page 22

14-00000

TO

SENDER M'LL CHECK CLAS

¡CATION TOP AND BOTTOM

LSCLAISIFIED

CONSIDE TRAL

IN SOPET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROLTING SLIP

MAME AND ADORESS

DATE

INITIALS

DO/SA, MT. Gale ALLEN

Ri: 522-F, 1750 PA ALE.

DIRECT REMY

DISSATEY

FILE

X !

INFORMATION

PREPARE REMLY

FECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGMATURE

Remarkes

per your phone Leases

K5. ALLEN: Subject has two sons por security's

record.

Antonio Lals P...... born 1934, Ponco

Rosario s. ?......

born: 1938, Ponce

Ple Lit no know 11 I should conduct traces.

Thank you

HOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: MAMI, ADDRIBE ANO PHOME NO.

Ana PANOR, D0/H3. : 5 1 16 HOS BldRe

CONFIDENTIAL

P948pª. 237 Ure areneus editions

DATE

I Doc.64

SECRET

(40)

• RD BONENHMENT PRINTING OFFIER, 1001 0 - 889808

22300.

---

## Page 23

14-00000

SECRET

26 sugust 2966

FIKORATAN PURS ADO/IA

17:24: 1%

SODE?

" REFERENCE

1 BraDs TOply a LUdA TAPHS

do: 15a008 hono boss oozilalad on

''BEGO ASDATRO TIPRS AgATO, 8010895T22

LAI LOSO A. TOROSI LUlA ALDATE TELLS

: DAPOR, 17 PODruATy 1224, PaROo, PesTIO RLea

seantos and Industriallas

#olse lara 315006, la. 8, PORos, Fuerso fleO

Bubjoot, l varilty mambor of tsa ProTto kleen LastiliBuro;

boado tha depubllean (Statesoad) Party, und la a srocinaldor

so sabjoat.

Cia: 01f100 Of SAGUrLEY,, CI/JA, ADu VN2/D8 had A

Tha 10l Mule le hold by Ni/2/DA os paraanors charco.

•CI/OA salncaine a file on Sub1008. 1118h voo 10r100d and tie tosuils aro

¡corvarded soroilin, in a superaca invalapa, as dicoobiant to. l.

Inaladad in Altachaant 1 18 aparational and Lutestliablro Laforeation

sran ese offsea os seourity and ta 201 silo.

¡blogrepble dals shoes forvarded by una ursloo of socurity.

deador bullo, 11eht coxplados vich brom hal and eyear.

acatIons PitIlo schoolo, PORce, PUATTO RIODI lO KOSTLALANE

schoal, Mostleran, ley deregyi Messdonedazze lasticura ef

rese snellar, spentor, and ironeti.

Lex13z Beckeroendo Marriad to Lorenalto (Des Reistros do

¡ATOllArO) PERHE, DOTA 9 JULY 1905, 302 GOTIAT, PUOTLO RIcO and

aho La a D. So ALCAzon. ThATO ATE Wa ChIldrOn to BiNo sno

SECHET

---

## Page 24

4-00000

SECRET

01610000, Dubjoce ses lour DrOlDaTo 6O1 O ALAbaS (D00 A8:AabAcal 3).

lo 18 8130 prealdano as usa Parto istialres, valos istatado la 891is diu

Posson

хотоль зотротав'ст, росою. ?. i.

rato Mao Inva l'arta, Panos, Po 8.

Puerto R10a vilaso Corporas:0n, san duer, Po A.

PuoTtO N100 ClAY IOTPOTAL1OO, Ses da27, P. R.

fabrico bacionel ilarto,

useo Proceete, Ionerioratod, Meal; Morta

Possons la lha Alroores al lin leax el possa, Capitel baldiaza of Porro

1odas1510s ded boss oallessod di onor 81, 100, 000.00 1s 1760 und Dubjons'o

ar18le0 ertielar onl "Induabriel Donosrooy, " "Acarices EsMDoRsRiD."

al Mensa," and "Buger illlla." Ha la a sentar ar uso ilone al

arlaaa sonlaly as Mochertoel soglasan

Пn9 PA70

borrlbattens

0618. 1/0620. •1/00/01

SEGRET

---

## Page 25

4-00001

Attacheent to DO/HS Mesoranctur

dated 26 August 1964

C GRET

Arrachosas so. I 10

DO/ES Honorandua da ted

80 ЛИтU5ь 1834

iporational nod lo: ++18805298107

BABLORT MAS MORTIOROd lA TOU LADOX DISpAtODOS DY

ChA CAIOS DI SIATIOR, SAN JUAD, DUATIO BICO, AN a pOsAIDIO

CRodientE ibrous nhon londa 80 porsons la lãO DOLIALCRA

sopabile could ba developed and tassorod agassos the 10801-

11gados dirvico and the rullas afrales ibero.

IN HPSA.1388

asd EPBA DAl, bora darod 11 SaptaRber 1850, Subjoet 1

IstIOnTÓ di a soDi pAraDa 10T lLA DeLlanLas ol COverE operA

81008 du tho 1

DOMIDICAR RODUDIdO DeCHUBO LO MES vEll KnOWA

and comidarod diacroet by thone uno tron bla.

BEQUARO Öt

la benLmeson la tha U.S, und tha Carlbboan ures,, Subje01

orsd bIa sOnO allOgIANCE.

subjeat's cospasies did Buch

bUS1EB8ª 1n lho DaRIaICAn ropubllo.

BaLDADILE, tho Station's

CORZBE5,

TaN IBETHOtOd lo apprarch hia LadIrectly tarougi

A CREMONE VEO MAS ARGOL FONSECA JINIUGI, a pOrSORAlIEIIORd OS

IXEDADDIE, A LORDOF Ol tHO PUOTTO RICAA LOBLALATUTO: A CODIOS

renber as the sopoblicas (Statesoad), Party, and tory closo

to subract.

'"Taforcation In SubJOOt'a PRO Il rarealor tbat Do

Jas dislgred the crotOsi? greviR1.

TO CaDO OffiCAT VAR

InTrOduORO lo subgedt by nne MeDOleCO A. LOPEZ Doniagues,

tho U.S. COlloctor ol CURTONA 1D CHIFIO 1A PUOITO BICO ON

¿ ErESeLlI COCLAI LASdE 1n MaTON 1900 (tala vas to Do

Bubjoct's cover, and cheru vas no sonatary fuxuseration).

B1s0n Bubject yan cansiderad a Joyal U.9. O1t1zo0, Do vas

VEdO VITILAE O1 LURAIT'E IRLOTONE IO POIDONO lA LiVO DUALDICAS

magnante ste gight 198d so 820

ta570ti Eo diospilod lo nonins

¡BADY lO ChiS OndOAVOS OnthUNIATICSILY:

ALIDONEO 18 DRA

BOYVRO NA AN LODOrAry VICO CODAul

SON SEDERE.

Latla Anorica:

A CONADA DIACtICO 1OS PrOCiDODI bUEInOSANDA Is

ho van

service.

"la valdo do ULAn Lay in

anonlodyg

el persona and dse1a di the sosinicon

Rapuallo, partioularly

Individu

LA TUO STATOLION TANTO TUT

18K0) 8998000.

in de

1al and gall

3B49.

FABO

0881005

1hed dubjo

aduasters,"

thoad deada

whaso road serenata la

proniaent.

and Could no? MIlLeland teO tUch

rigataning oi blo possisun, ho

anonid nut be ueed "alrectiy"

SU DAY ODATATION (NO INO ODIALOS Ol IDE ORSO ORLICOS MDE

YPOLO tDA DBQ AYAIUAlSOA).

---

## Page 26

14-00000

ALLACAEADE MO. I lO

DO/HY HOMOTREDUA CRIAN

26 AujU88 1888

AOBOTSIAS TO IAIOTRATIOR lA CBZOAS (Cl/OA FILO).

7/8/DRRE PAGODAROS E DOS OS e MAY 1000 SOT DOTNIRALOR 80

Allon soa mia as sabjace to "provido usaful laformarlos as.

OF PATOLEO N1181D8 OS UATIILLD8 esployORR, courlos DOcess

MEULTA Of GrOOE LiBi Mu. ¿ñDasI

The POX MRA STADION 31 N3J 18B0 6D0

called

1l :copte

00т.1850.

1 Матай 1051, гооро

aBInaly.

1a aor1000 to

arras by

T8/S/D9N3.

BARDES ХОГ ¡ОКО СПРОСІЛТІВОЯ ПОГО

дІ.

гососс о о

80т 809 88 На ІаЛОТЕДТ, ПоО ГОДОВОЇ

18a

grauP0d by Cl/QA On 11 SoptouDer 1881.

Ao 1avos8188810n ґоро by the 011100 ol BooUrIty

ди 1980 т90

I8 dia MAKO TOPOrOnCO tO INSON

¡alfon in an FBI report datod 19. Nas

1050, 10 ManblagrOs. D.C.,

alch also appoad in the subjeat'& 20118l0.. 1310 тарогь

BOBBAIDed IDA POllONID8 JAIOTASIIOOI

@leste da loRder os the uratebodd parry,

sub joat

aIrBabed coupulsory +111195Y 808T1C9108 SUOSTO BICO.

calllAs dA taxation stbout reprodoniallon.

1058, воротог.

starobood Party

adoro tho moe

DYb11O 8AA

mata of tental

B181zanFAlD, tho1r desiro to 11ro

DorzaDostly Usdes tDa U.s. Ilas. ind iDe1s посот

BORdAtION thAs pardOn and OlORaDoy Do grantod la.

MF1POFIUS CROON OT DATTODA NOCUROS 18 CORDPOELOS

обабі ібо

•ägilouilint israit da insu..

subjoa1.repartodly.orforada.gob.ra

LuarRo RiCO (souses Dos specILioS):

The iss purolvd informatioa (sourco sot apociiled)

1a 1888. and 1083 that Subjock recalved nall

{808)

ano Juna Antonlo Correrjer.

A SONDAS DARDOS OS tÃO

¡verrO dICAs RatIOnAllat Party.

---

## Page 27

4-00000

ALPACDIODE SO, I PO

DO/ls sonorandus daioo

86 AUGUAS ISAA

d8 BDO PAGUDAS Ol IDA JOALICO DADATIMORE, EDe

IBI coaduaros as alagulry, uador she Antlairios Lem

PUATRO 1100 PUTIRE DACREDAS 1050.

#l. A5s03985898108

and ficasalos, subjeci rapapiorly controllad lse

tha pasalla of tha dagusty.

то слов о drarson, іла била.

Bubjual la poDos on dû inconios 1903: At this til

1aoj0a8 coll the cs1a8 os du

1100 that Do DaO COm

1dor1ns

COMBIFNAPIOR O!'

1о table

Of QUQDADTING OBILOLAI

BantataDos

RarongH prIVAla pAtaTy

VAS

100."

• Bubgeet Sel: 1her

"InporatITO tOr: ald tT00

aRtIOTA 0s, the Hamliptero

to do all

Ir pos

5 to belp tha Doninican Repubido

"Boo a tras DanocIady and cony li tO tha cormuslara.

BALO 11181 TRAS, DIINATO CADIIRI EUST ALDO PAFELOIPALO

Tala 1s ibe contiarlos that prosared subjoct

La caRaIdor bullalas the plasto.

LoOordIna tO a RoBorADdom to CI/QA datod 37 HaY 19B0, 8509

1PB9, ranoala Ilas Bubject t9t s

ALATICADA DRO DOEIORRILY RUDELOLIOd ANCROLL (prObablY a

:1BB0E 01 MI/SA).

JUAN 0404 (IN 33897), Y DOCORDOE 1951, 000

Of & sucher si cebles Sa BubjECl'3 201 8110, JadicAio LùôG

BROJECT tOOL 1ATEZS0 INSETUSE:IN CUDAN SIINITO BON VAN SOTO

CORR IS1J1RR tO ObrALA LAJOrASILOn On CUbAR aLeDaDIO.

Corral coyor graTe bad a record, Pose 2128 catad

recording to a docuent so Sehlicke. 20d 1 lay 1960

TE IDENT

DSd DO SOLITA DE DITOOt LAPATISI la JubjodE.

---

## Page 28

14-00000

SECRET

-= (71)

FOUTING AND RECORD SHEET

recorag

FROM:

PRIOR TO FILING

back. Detach baci

AT 2M 14

et, unless st

sigalficant

action takes or

preservation.

TO: ACTION bRANCH

Is silo so, aid title stoo are not

proper, insert proper file no. below

and forsard document to RID/AN.

PROPRA FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN BICTION I ON BACK IP APPROPRIATE

COMMEATS

TO

C/wH/6

HOOM

No.

DATR

RECEIVED

18 JAN 1954

ОГЛІСКАВ

in chions detached

BI!

Cy with value?

12.

18.

14.

:.

17.

RID/FI

LAGE

ARGUEST 1

SAYS MICROTILM

6109

UBI PRIVIOUA

PILA TITLE

HUMEET INIMANY COLDEN

Do 20 - 205712

DOCUMENT NUMBEN

4 Pan 64

•HPSA

SECHET

01969

indirede

---

## Page 29

FROM

SUBJECT

DISPATCH

QASTTICATION

S-B-C-R-B-T

PROKESSING ACTION

TANNED FOR ENDONIES

Chief, WHD

NO UNDOUNG REQUIRED

ONET QUALIFIED DESH

Chief of Station, Santo Domingo

Chief of Station, San Juan

Meeting with SKEWER-1

Action:

Information

1. COS not with. SKEWER-l In Ponce, P. R: on 28 December 1963.

?.

During general conversation, SKEWER-l said he was consider-

1B8

the construction of two sizeabla plants (cement and glass.) in

the

Dominican Republic as a means of augmenting official assistance

through private enterprise and asked COS's opinion of the venture.

COS responded that this was personal decision for SKEWER-l to make.

3. SKEWER-I said he felt that it was imperative for all free

nations of the Hemisphere to do all in their power to help the

Dominican Republic become a true democracy and to deny it to the

Communists.

In this vitäl task, he added, private capital must

also parilcipate, actively.

This personal

conviction, he said, 18

what has prompted him to coulder building the cement and glass

plants.

SKEWER-1 sald that he belleyed the present GODR was

democratically-oriented and would do a good job in the interval

"between the Junta reign and elections for a successor government.

He also praised the selection vI Donald REID Cabral to succeed

DE LOS SANTOS.

mele

K. Lamicine

Helvin K. LAMIAUX

Diatribution:

@ - Chief, WHD

1 - COs, Seato Deningo.

NES REPIRENCI TO

DIBRATCH SYMBOL AND MUMBIA

HPSA-2969

CLASSIPICATION

S-E-C-R-E-T

201-205712

DATE

4 бапидгу 1984

НОВЕКАМИНИЗКА

---

## Page 30

14-00000

UNIT :

EXT ..

DATE :

TO

FROM,

CONF,

INFO,

*_CLASSIFIED: MESSAGE

JACQUES PRINDIVILI&SpJ

2065 ..

298:

BE: 1951

1716

SAN JUAN

DIRECTOR

BELL 10

WH 5, s/c 2

JuAN

1398 DIR.

INFO

12785 (ou OUT98466)•

361- 205713

ROUTING

CITE DIR

T9 SEP 6I 22

SIO GEM

DEFERRED

Z ROUTINE

OUT98467

12786

46 7

MBH ZX LXS ATRERT FIREK.

END O KISSAN!

Mablo sacratardes plance sply sol.

10ки

REFRODUCTUN DY OTHER TRAN IM iSSUINO OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

itla

Copp Na.

---

## Page 31

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

=701-205-712

ROUTING

ORIG !..

LINIT,

1/4/DR8H

EXT

DATE:

2065

19 SEPTEMBER 1961

1715

TO , SAN JUAN

FROM,

DIRECTOR

CONF,

INFO,

_BELL 10

WH 5, s/c 2

SuAs

1 9 SEP 61

22

45₴

• INPO

: CITE DIR

I ROUTINE

OUT 98466

12785

EID OF HESSANT

C/S COMMENTI "DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO UMZIP CABLES.

.w. Markur

Зданув

REPRODUCTION; DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OPFICE IS PROMISITED,

com Na."

---

## Page 32

14-00000

SECRET

Thon Pillad in)

90245÷1.

Но. G-82943

MEMORANDUM: FOR: Chief, HH/L - A. Amort.

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of luis Albert FERRE

., sor the purpose specified in your request

darad_

12 Aug 1961

al grantod for uad: Of Subject as set forth 1n FRU part II.

is PM'S1

honrs Ослась, вт.

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

11 Bept 1961

Distribution:

От18.

to Addros

I 80 FeN

SECRET

ват но: 124 0 0086870

Wn 0

---

## Page 33

14-00000

BLORST

HINORANDUM TOL CH/OR

Attentsans M. Don Robler

FROM 8 WE/4/TZ-0I

BUBILOT

в 0. 82499

2. Attached for your retention 1s s cosplted copy of the

Til Part II as dabjest cesa, It do requentad that a rall operational

opproval bé proonared on the sabjoot.

8o 0abj00t ben sot rot bore analened a eryptatyes. Torts 015100

""d11 Do adriead Inadletaly of any furthes cotaos on thla setter.

Mi: 00 +0001

W/SIX/Bastl-P

---

## Page 34

DISPATCH

CRSSICATION

SLOBET

10

Chief of Statton, San Juan

INFO

1O 185671153 MOUrNI

CRET QUALIFIED DESA

FROM

Chief, iostern Hendspharo Diviaton

SUBJECT

SKEhER-2 - Clarification of Operational Status

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

ACTIONI As appropolato, por paragraphs tuo and throo.

REX: HPSA-1955 (REBAT) (27 September 1963)

MICROFILM

Lo A full Operational Approval was 1s8ued on 11 Soptember 1961

for uas of SittERl as get forth in the PRi Part II subnitted to lisad

quartors with JU-232 (18 July 1961). Notification of issuenco of the

Os was gaven the: Station in DIR 12785 and- DIR 12786.

2. If the Station judges that the abova cited PRU PArt II no

Longer obtains as to Subject's actual current operational status and

"ặo (Haadquertors" Illo on subject shows that it does not; o fo his

sunding of a Station JHAVE operation), an up to dato PRU Part II

should bo aubitted 1n order to amend the lA l9sued in Septeader 1961.

3i Ibo Station abould be gulded by the prontolons of 05I-F-50-17

with respoot to keaping Headquarters infoszod of current oparational

contest with and use of subjest.

AC:3"

END OF DISPAICH

Dotributions

2 = COS. Sen Juan

CROSS RETIRINCE TO

DIBRATIN BYMBOL AND NUMBER

• CLABSIFICATION

= 0s 1902 205722)

WH/6/DR:PR

CAN1/6/116SPR

MAIL

201-205712

DATE

05707 1969

31 Ostober 1963

MOS FRE NUMBER

202-205772

CRINATING

ja

CAP.

45÷4

ANATING

110 1 1C:8. H'S MAME

BID/14

MON T6150417016

I Nos 6,3

(AUD

MCCANVIOUS FOURON

DINA INH

TATTERIN& GUNTAINE

• U. HINd

BALO

vera

DISPATCH

---

## Page 35

14-00000

OffE

578

,. 2 AUG 61

TO

• DIRECTOR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET.

FROM

SAN JUAN

ACTIONI BELL 10

INFO

COP, ADDP/A, CA 2,,

CA/EAG, CA/PRG, CA/PROP, C1/IC 2,

F1, FI/INT 2, 100 4, WH 5,

S/C 2

201-

ROUTING

5

BUG. 3 01062 51

ROUT I NE

IN 47500.

PRITY DIR INFO TRUJ CITE JUAN 0240

DYVOUR 4

1065-31482,637

MEETING & AUG WITH LUIS TERRE PRODUCED FOLLS COUCEC

A. TERRE HAD CONVERSATION 25 JULY VITH FRANK CHAVEZ AFL-CIO

LEADER IN PUERTO RICO: CHAVEZ PROPOSED FERRE GO DOM REP ACT AS.

CATALYST BETWEEN CONFLICTING FORCES AND USHER IN DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT

ARGUED THAT MAN FERRE'S STATURE COULD SERVE IN PLACE OAS COMMISSION.

TERRE FAVORABLY INCLINED IN PRINCIPLE. FERRE IN CONTACT CARLOS

CHARDON, WELL KNOWN PUERTO RICAN AGRONOMIST WHO NOW IN DOMREP AT

INVITATION BALAGUER CONNECTION AGRARIAN REFORMS. CHARDON FAVORS.

IDEA FERRE MEDIATION. (COMMENTS FERRE REQUESTED NOTHING; YAUGER

VOLUNTERRED NOTHING. FÖR HUS INFO YAUGER EXPECTS TALX NEXT WITH

TERRE & AUGI.

?. CHAVEZ HAD JUST RETURNED FROM SEEING ARTURO ESPIALLAT

IN CANADAO. AS 1.0NG TIME

FRIEND ESPIALLAT, CHAVEZ CLAIMS CREDIT

TOR GETTING RAMFIS TRUJILLO RELEASE ESPALILAT. CHAVEZ ALSO FRIENDLY

WITH RAMFIS WHO, ACCORDING CHAVEZ FAVORS DEMOCRATIZATION DOMREP

WANTS LEAVE COUNTRY, LIQUIDATING FAMILY ASSETS AT TEN CENTS

ON THE DOLLAR. ASSETS IN DOHREP ESTIMATED AT 800 MILLION DOLLARS.

TERRE COMMENTED THAT IN LONG RUN IT WOULD BE CHEAPER FOR DOMINICANS

Saha

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 36

CLASS LELED MESSAGE

* NUAN 0240

SECRET

•1: 7500

PAGE

RID THEMSELVES TRUJILLOS BY PAYING, SAY, FIVE CENTS ON DOLLAR RATHER

JHAN SUFFER CONSEQUENCES CIVIL WARO. CHAVEZ SAYS HECTOR TRUJILLO

ALSO WANTS OUT

BUT PETAN WANTS CONTINUE DYNASTY. CHAVEZ SAYS

RAMFIS HAS SOLID BACKING AIR FORCE WHICH IS REAL STRENGTH ARMED

FORCES.

c.

canded

FERRE HAD BEEN APPROACHED BY OSVALDO I GRIMALDI AND JOSE

ANTONIO SALCEDO AS LEADERS IN PUERTO RICO OF PRD WHO ÄSKED MONEY

FOR MEDICINES CLOTHING ETC. FERRE STALLED BUT IS INCLINED GIVE

SOMETHING TO KEEP ON GOOD SIDE ANY ANTI COMMUNIST GROUP.

•END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA

ISSUING

UNTICE IS PROHIBITEO

---

## Page 37

SECRET

PRO NO.

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 1I - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

DISPATCH NO.

JU-232

INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER

eat lon

in PRU

hasuquarters

3.

Three

0101

DAto

FILI

acquie

lor

CAYPTONYM

Ificar an appropelato nuthorisy on tha baolo al lno boat avallablo in.

an approval unlove

roqueator luendahoo

an amora

to oll

•ional approval

quentione

may bo obtained by

and 188.

complyine alls the ap-

Thoraalter

the unual nochod

1o

documant or cam.

In subjectio handorieino, Il posalblo, and 150 (2) com-

possible.

copies.

appl

%,aP nuabel:

cable «ll NA"" Il addiedonal apoca roquirad

8. PARUDONYM

SECTION

SKEWER//

CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT

IMDICATE NOW.

WHEN, EMERE, UNY, AND OY UMOM SUBJECT

MAS FINDS CONTACTEO OR DRUELOPRO.

0a00 Officer first net Subjeot through the ald of Prancisco A. LOPEZ Domingues

sho, as U.S. Calector. of Customs in charge, 10 vitting of CO's true status.

LOPE

arranged a lunch for throe at the Zipperlie Rosterant. There were two purpose:

to 10et subject as part of SKIPPER's general roquirement to know outstandina figures,

and to pave the way for contast in scordance with the POd that already had been roo

rested.

The 1n1tlal' D00t1n8 128 1a Maroh 1960j tho POA vad rocelrod on 2li June

3960 1n 54-45.

•INDICATE ONETHER SUBJECT COULD DE TURNEO OVER QUICHLY AND IN

HAMDLINO.

от 80, IIAT то оном..

Ios - to any sendor officer (Subject 18 57 yours old)

• BECURE MAMMEN PO ANY

POR

OTHEA CASE OPPICERS UNO MAVE HAMOLEO BUBJECT O

Hene

ИМ ICH

T.:KY HAVE

1050a

REPLACES FORM

THIEM MAY

SECRE:

---

## Page 38

4-00000

SECRET

SECTION 11

MOTIVATION ANG COMTROL

ESTIMATE SUBJECT•S MOTIVATION. (Do derailod, il possible ciro auddenco.

Do not una slock consent such as

comaunial. ")

Subject is a genuine loyal American citizen, His citizenship, his

schooling (Morristown School, Morristown, New Jerscy; Massachusetts Institute

of Technology), his position as head of the larre industrial complex which

operates both in Puerto Rico and in the continental United States, and his out-

standing politicel status combine to motivate him to support the inited States.

IMDICATE WHAT CONTROL, IP AMY, EXISTS OVER THE SUBJECT, (Il nO COnerol, or if ldare is a lock of real control

No control.other than the suasion of patriotian.

SECTION 11I

COVER

COVER USED DY SUBJECT ANO CASE OFFICER IM THEIR

MiETINGS.

Social cover. Case Officer's cover makes acquaintanceship entirely plausible.

COVER USCO DY SUBJECT IN OBTAININE MIS IMPORMATIOM AND IN. CONTACTINO HIS INFORMANTS:

He businega and social positions.

IMDICATE SERVICE PON SMICH SUBJECT TMIMKS ME (W111 BORk) (do DOrMInA).

witting.

SECTION IV

IATELLIGENCE CONMECTIONS AND TRAIMIMO

CAPLAIN

SUBJECT'S ANOMA PAST OR PAESENT COMMECTION MITH AMY OPMER INTELLIGFNCE SERVICE, INDIG. TE THE EXTENT

SÜCH COMNTETION IS ANOIN OVERTLY.

No known such connection.

8 LIOT OTHER IMDIVIDUALS (AROMPS, COlARIDOR,

IRRAT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

T. A. LOPEZ Dominguez (see Section Il) to the extent only of raving offocted the

introduction.

EXPLAIN ANY TRAININO SUBIKET MAS HAD IN GLA

None

BICTION

COLLABORATION

POTENTIAL

INDICATE OTHER

PONRION POMES BUBJECT MOULO DE MORE LINALY

ASSOCIATIONO.

BAPLAIN.

TO COLLANGNATE MITM ANCAUDE DE MIS IDROLODI ON PART

Such collaboration is in the realm of thuoretical posaluility. Only knoun con-

nootion with a forulyn rovornment is that he hne anrod asan honorary vion coneul

for shedon, a cormon practioo of Latin Amerioan buninons mon.

BECKET

---

## Page 39

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION VI

OPERAT: ORAL USE -

CONTACT

IF SUBJECT HAS

OFEN USTO OR CONTACIDO BEFORE, INDICATE ACCINITY IN EMICH MÈ

¡MATION ME LIS FURNISHED.

DAS ANGAGEO AND THE TYPE OF INFOR.

No previous use known.

INDICATE MON AND FRON UNOM SUBJIGT ODTAINS IMPORMATION.

From his business and social positions.

That 1s, his normal business and social

contacts supply him with his information.

INDICATE UNAT MAS BEER TOLO BUBJECT AS TO THE DISPO

SI TION OF

Subject i8 witting.

FURMISHES.

---

...

DETAIL SUBJECT-S PROPOSRO PI ON CI TYPE UER ON DUTIES.

Subject's valuo 1108 In hia personal knowlnige of persons and facts in the target

country, and his access to persons having legal reagons to travel to that country.

Also, through him access can be had to local persons who may be in a position to

be useful - wittingly or unittingly.

DETAIL SULJECT'S PROPOSIO

PR•PM TPE USE ON DUTIER.

See Para 4 Immediately above.

SECTION VII

PROPOSED LIAISON

OR

OPEHATIONAL ACTIVITY

Í. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPORKO LIAITRY TYPE COMPACI ON REIRALIOMAL UNEI

A. THERE SUBJRGT IS AN OPPICIAL MEMBER OP A PORSION DOVERMMENT,

NA

BUBLEGT

RA

OPPICIAL MEMBER

SECTION VIID

AOLUCY AELATIONBHIP WITH BUBJECT

IMPLAIN MATURE DR ¡DANNY RELATIONOMIO DITH BUNSEOTO LIBI PRAINGS, OPPOBIPE MUMBER, REMUMERATION, IP AMTI AGRNCY

So far as le knnun, the Cono Offloor 1e the only ARenoy porson known to Subjoot.!

The solationnhip 10 noolal - on a witting, basis.

No romuneration 1a involvod.

BECRET

122049

---

## Page 40

SECRET

SECTION

1X

QUALIFICATIONS FOR GTHER OPERATIONS

INDIÇATE SPECIAL

ADILITIES, TALEMTS, OR QUILIFICATICNS PÚGUG:GRU dI SUGLERI MAICH CUULO CGRCETYAPLY BE OF LAIUE

FOR OTMER OPERATIONS.

Although. Subject is an intelligent, well-educated person, he should not be used

directly in operations. His value

is as described in Section VIL. Furthermore,

SECTION

his political position prohibits involvement in operations.

IF IT IS PROPOSEO TO PAY

SUBJEST A REGULAR

SALARY.

COMMODITIES, SUASION OR OTHER METHOO, SPECIFY AND

THE WEEKLY AMOUNT, IF PAN

GIVE DETAILS.

DE MADE IN EXCHANGE

NA

EXPLAN ANY PROMIS

, NA

MO? COVEREO HEREIM.

MADE TO SUBJECT. (ExCOple:

commitsents reerrains

10c08640h

SECTION -XI

CE AND SECURITY

INDICATE

THE FIELO AGENCIES ANI-FIRLO PILES WITH TMICH SUBJECT'S MAME MAS BEEN CHECHEO AMO THE RESULTS.

INDICATE OTMER INVESTIGATIVE

TAKEN TO VERIFY

BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FURMISHED BY SUBJECT.

As an outstanding public figure, knowledge about Subject 1a general and all "Who's

Who" write-ups contain long

articles about him.

OR MOT PROVIBIONAL OPERATIONAL APP:O:AL ON OPCRATIONAL AP.

PROVAL

POR BUBJECT'S USE HAS BEEN PRIVIOUBLY OBTAINO.

A. DATE APPROVAL OBTAINED

POA

EVALUATE RUDJECT'S CHARACTER, MRLIABILITY AND SECURITY, CITINO EVIDENCE MERE POSSIBLE.

In addition to Section II 1, although a leader in politics, Subject's real strength

18 1n. his: being an enlightened capitalist.

One Who's Who description gaya "pioneer

In tha Job of humanizing: Industry". Is a Catholic lay leader.

Has held various

publio

service positions, o.f., Lions Club, Chamber of Conmerce, Council of the

Boy Sooutes honorary secrotary of MIT, philanthropiat; etc.

ANY

SITUATION OR

ITIONAL

INDISCRETION IN SHICH BURJICT MAY MAVE ORRN INVOLVEO UNIRM, MUST DE BUALUAIRO PROM A

SECURITY VIAMPOINT.

Nono known

PECTION XLI

PERSONAL

MADIT&

USE O1 L'QUOR: ORUODI GAMBLIMO, PARAMOURS.

With Case Offiner, Subjoot has been most aparing in use of liquor, an a political

publio figuro any personal weaknesses would have boen woll aired.

SECRET

---

## Page 41

4-00000

SECRET

SECTION XILI

AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

1. INDICATE SUBJECT'S MOBBIES OR INTEREST IN SPORTS, MUSIC. ETC.

Plays the piano well.

SECTION

XIV

GENERAL

INDICATE MMETHER SUBIRCT'S LANGUAGE ABILIT, ES AND OTMER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS ME COULO PASS AB A NATIVE

jOr a COUNTAY OR REGIOM. OTHER THAN MIS OUN.

EXPLAIN.

Subject's English is excellent but he probably would be noted as having been raised

other than in the continental United States.

Information 19 lacking as to his

foreign language abilities, and such infermation has not been sought in view of

the non-operational nature of his connection with the Agency..

INDICATE

PHETHER INFORMATION IN PRO PARTS I AMO 11 MAS OBTAINEO DY RESTARCH, CLANOESTIME ASSERSMENT. PILES.

cOM

POnDENCE OR OTHER MEANS.

Except for such factual data as place of schooling, Subject 18 such a prominent

public figure that general information about him is public knowledge.

AND

WHEN TERMIMATION OF SUBJRCT IS AFPECTIO, PLEADE RÄPLAIN

ROUTINE

адд.

SECTION XY

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS

DIVE PUIL DETAILS I.B, ARCOGNITION SIONALS, S/NI MMERE COULO CONTACT BE MADRI THAT BOMA FIDES COULO INOIVIOUAL

MAXIMO CONTACT UBER

If contact with Subject were to be made other than through the Case Officer, the

newly-contacting Officer should exhibit documentary evidence of his Agonuy.con-

nootion and a reasonable explanation of why the introduction 1s not made by the

Case Off1cor....

ICTION XVI

MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA

AND REMARKS

See Section I. 1.

• IONATURE

BANIDA OPTIGER

PAPA

10 July 1961

SECRET

L

---

## Page 42

SKEWER-I.

PRO NO.

PERSONAL RECORD qUEST ONNAIRE

PART 1 - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION.

INSTRUCTIONS:

if

DISPATCH NO.

Prile "NA"

SECTION!

1. NAME (PiTOR)

8. MAME IN MATIVE LANGUAGE OR SCRIPT

anaco

GENERAL

PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA

(Laat)

F:715

8: MAUR. AT BLATH (IT ATllorent then Iren 1.8

ALTA

NICKNAMES.

TELECODES,, LEGAL CHANGE IN MAME ¿STaTO TIMO, rOndOn Tor and place of unos

D. DATE OF BIRTH

17 isbriy 17011

MAL MABITS (LIQUOR.

drat, (emblind, parenoura)

B. PLACE OF BIRTH

¡once, • uertis Miso

Fery 10l1-100 21 samundty of high noral character.

COURT RECORO (COUrt, dato,

толо

56

OF WAIR

DESCRIPTION PURO MOTIOON O!

DO, APPARENT AOR Od. MRIGHT

P. 3 0n.i

0) • такти

COLOR OF EYES

Dryon

SCARE ANO MARKO DR OTHER: DI ARINQUI SMINO PRATUNET

soar 01

DINBRAL APPRAMANCE

PROMINENT PRATUNEO

ДРИТА. СПОМРІРНІМО УДАРИНЕО

АТТАГИ

HIQNATURE AND!

wEtONT

108. PACE (Shepo)

livel

• I POSTURE

EILO

" lander

---

## Page 43

SECTION 11

PRESENT CITIZENSHIP

CI FI ZEN SHIP

2. MATIONALITY AT BIRTH AMO ANY SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS (1l dillerone chan Iron 1.)

...:

3- PRESEN!. RESIDENCE (Indicate an omer.

lanent as sub-sonant)

PERMANENT ADDRESS (If different than 1800 s.)

IP U.S, NATURALIZED CITIZEN, GIVE MAME, DATE, CITY ANO NUMBER OF CERTIFICATE GRANTED

TRAVEL OUTSIDE COUNTRY OF PRESENT RESIDENCE (COuntrIos, datos and purpodds)

•Crane, jenergela, camo cualacau all trival.

SECTION 811

1. PRESENT OCCUPATION

OCCUPATIOMAL

AND FIMANCIAL DATA

&. TITLE

l'erie arubiotriog:

FINANCIAL STAINS (Barnings, bank depoodlo.

securities and proporty)

SALARY (POr annUn)

1:5 123, 300

SECTION IV

ORCANIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS

MEKBKRSMIP IN RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS

henan catrolle

PRISEMT ANO PAST MEMBERSHIP IN PROFESSIQNAL ANO SOCIAL- ORGANIZATIONBI POLITICAL

Amorican suclety of Mechanical intreorg,

¡cader of lemublicon (tatel:an1) corty

SECTION

MAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL

EDUCATIONAL DATA

SCHOOLS

MAMA OF, COURSE

l'oncE Pubila. 5050028

Morristons inhonl, lew unrary

rockablors, Cockon, 11356.

AFRILLATIONS

DATES ATTENDED

PROM

DEGREE

RECEIVIO

та

4136

:, LAMQUARS

boloo

lorquado in

dapros al

ahloh you

ripantah

1T-.10n

iTrirml:

PI LANQUAREE AND DIALECTE

READ

YEB

yet.

X. но

COMPETAMCE

UNDIRSTAND

NO

---

## Page 44

SECTION VI

INDICATE ANY MAITINO.

TION DATES.

SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS AND INTERESTS

GIVE DETAILS INCLUDING TITLES OF BOOMS ON ARTICLES.

AL SO MAMES OF

PUBLISHENS AND PUBLICA.

Arthelo one dacuatrial : crouy

Cumone il scio

FUSAr 41120

SPECIAL SKILLS, ABILITIES.

MOBOILS SUCH AS MADIO, PHOTOGRAPMY, APE.

SECTION VII

COUNTRY

DATES

MILITARY SERVICE

UNIT

HANK

DUTY®

Union

"IDENTIFYINO COUNTRY.

PRISONER.

DECORATIONS.

WHEN AND UNY DISCHARGED, GIVE DETAILS IP MAN

SECTION VIII

NOTE:

EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

INDICATE CHRONOLUGICAL HISTORY OR EMPLOYMENT LISTINO LAST POSITION PINST, INCLUDS MY OOVERAMINT EMPLOYMDIT.

1. INCLUBIVE DATES (FROM-TOX 8, EMPLOYER

ADOREOd

TYPE OF WORK

BO SALARY ON SARNIMOS

• . .

INCLUDIVE DATER (TOROIO,

DO EMPLOYBA

JALARY OR CARNIMOS

INCLUDINE DATES PETOMATOS TI

EMPLOYER

А, ТУРЕ ОР НОЛИ

DALARY ON BARNIMOI

INCLUDIVE DAPRO (APOMO IO).D.. IMPLOYEA

•. BALANY OR CARMINGS

INCLUDIVE MATRA TIPOMTIO, B, IMPLOYEA

JALARY OR PARNINGS

MEADON PON LRAVINO

P. READON DOR LBAVIMO

О поопнов.

READON POR LRAVINO

TO ADORETT

READON POR LHAVING

ADDRES

REASON PON ZETVINO

---

## Page 45

14-00000

SECTION

CHECK ONE,

MARITAL STATUS

"SINGLE

MARRIED

BIDONED

SEPANATEL

8. STATE DATE, PLACE AND REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES ON ANMULMENTS

ANNULiÉO

vIFE

OR

MUSBAND:

D. NAME OF SPOUSE

IF YOU HAVE

BEEN MARAIED

MORE THAN ONCE.

INCLUDING ANNULMENTS.

USE SHEET TOR FORMIN MIFE OR MUSRAMO

GIVING DATA REQUIRED BELOW FOR ALL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.

(FEE)

(Middio)

(woo).

Ramires de

(hand)

radd:

A.. DATE OF MARRIAGE

B. PLACE OF MARRIADE

• g017 135

• PLACE OI

BIATH

.. QUAREQUENT CIPIREMOMIPS

RESEN

1.2º3 2009

to. i,

ideo

SECTION X

CHILDREN

YEAN

DIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

193l6

1738

merto Rico

Meisto files

th?!

NATIONALITY

AT BIRTH"

"SUBSEQUENT

CITIZEMANIPE MBLO BY AMY CHILO PIDORAllY OMIld and AIDO AlO, OF hOR, DrODANI ANdrONe)

DiCTION XI

ABOURNT CITIZINIMIPS

DICTION XII

тинь нань.

MAjO

BUBSCQUENT @ITIXBNUNIS

OOCUPATION

190990.8199M

BSCUPATIEN

PLACE OF BIRTH

62:1119

PLACE

PRETENT MEDIOUNCH

HI0MO dino

PERIORNCY

MiCHGBON

&. MA: OMALITY AT DIATI

To MATIONMITY AT POPU

Smarte

Ture

---

## Page 46

4-00000

SECTION X111

BROTHERS AND SISTERS

SEX

FULL HAME

YEAR

0F

BIRTH

132

1905

1207

1909

PLACE OF BIRTH

case, ducrio ileo

"once, Pierto ulco

'once, verto leo

Y-alina FARME

1914

Puerto filco

"DUDSCQUENT CITIZENSMIPS MELO DY ANY BROTHER OR

address)

SISTER (Identlly brother, or alator and

MATIOMALITY AT BIRTHO

present

SECTION

RELATIVES, ACQUAINTANCES

AND COMTACTS

AMY GOVERMARNT SERVICE INDICATE MALE OF GOVRRAMENTS ANO POSITIONS MELD.

MELATIVRO, PRIENDS, CORRESPONDRNTS IN U,S, Piaplala

MATURALIZATION OF CLOSE ABLATIVRO IN U.S. (O1VO

Nodo

ALIASES,

RAVICE.

BECTIOM XY.

LIST GLODE ARBOCIATES, IMDIVIDUALS OR GROUPO

AND

AILATIONSHIP OF ALL PERSONS ANOTH

TO DE CONNECTED IN AMY

10 TH

INTELLIGENCE

PERSON

ASSOCIATIONS

ANEOUS

DI MATURE

---

## Page 47

14-00000

8 August 1961

SUBJBOTS LO1S Albart FURRE

1. Lots Albert PERIS, proninent Puerto Plean busineaman,

""$1nano10s, and industrialiat, uns bura in Ponco, Puerto Rico on

17 February 1904. The Subjoot was eduoated In the Ponce Publio

seboola, the Morristown School In New Jersey, and the Massachusetta

Inatituto of Technology where he receited hia B.S. and M.S. degree

In Machandeal Enginearing.

FIRkS has traveled widely, primarily through Suropo and

the Carlbbean, under ündted States Passport A3452P, lanued In 1953,

dan Juas, Puerto floo. Subjoct spooke Spanion, Engllah, and Prenah,

ho 18 a member of tbe taran Carbollo Church, the Hepublican (Stato

hood) Party, Ilona Club, and the Anarloan Socloty Of Mochenleal

loginears.

BRES lo prosently Vioe-Presidont of Farta Induatrion and

bes said (or 1a Bose instancea still bolde) the rollains positionas

Mos-President

Ponce, cemeat Coтр., PODOO, P.R.

Moe-Preaident

Puerso ilos Iron worko, Poace, P.R.

Froasdent

Flee-President

Puerto ¿doo 1ña5 Corpo, San Juan,

trasident

Pabrioe Hacional Mdrlo, Malguetsa, Venestela

Irector

Caneston Mestonales, Santiago do Cuba

Chairman

PoRea Produota, Ino, 118a1, Slorida

Haula IndustrIoD, Mond, Thorida

D1500t0r

Benso do PODOO, P. Do...

Tha Subjeot 'e capital holings are artinatod to be onor 81, 000, 000s hle

arringa asa notinated as 850, 000 per year.

rikid so mdasy know shroughout the Caribbean and 10 popcor

ly a man of high moral eharaoter. aus above arerar intelligeno

Sat to STATe

on 8 aug. 61

an hometo condictat lin

045- ohand Trin

SECRET

---

## Page 48

14-00000

SECRET

N0 - 232

18 July 1961

HEMORANDUM FOR CHIEF, WH DIVISION

SUBJECT: General - Operational

Spec1f1o - Submitting PRQ Part II on Subject JW-45

LET ERENCE:

JW-84

In cumpliance with Reforence, the requested information

18 herewith submitted.

arTon S: lauger

ПООВИТА

PRA Part I

SECRET

---

## Page 49

4-00000

SECRET

Мемо

So.:

ba tre

3. 84

5 June 1961

TENO ANDIM

PRiCH

SCEJECT

Pol:

WasTen S. LAUGER

Chlas, WEDD

General -

spectfic.

Sabject of rafaranoes.

ACTION REQUIRED:

Raference

di. DIR 01693 (OUT 71937)

Ва 5H-45

do

The operatlonal use of the subject of the references was

soquastad by ODIBEX on 1 Juno 1961.

In vian of kuBarK's provious

aontaot with the subjoct and probablo future operational interest

In the subjoat,.

STONESET has requested KUBARX's maintainance of

the subjoot's olearance.

To complato the subjoat's alparance for full operational

approval, you are requented to provido as promptly as ponsible the

sogainito

PRQ Part II Information. Enolored heronita are tro

sopies of the appropriate fors.:

"END UF DISPATON

Attaobrant

do stated

SEGRET

---

## Page 50

UNCLASSIFIED

'E ONLY

CAN " DENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT:: (Optional)

FROM.

FI/DC/ISR

1613 1

TO: (Officor designation, room number, and

bullding)

Marie Ferrari

DATE

ONWAIDED

ORITESS

WH/3/Puerto Rico -Rm 1-004 Barton Hall

Attn:

Nelson Smith

kira

NO.

DATE

1 June 1961

oach comment to show from whom

so who Drown leach so one to a or hom mon

Attached for your subject's 201

file.

Farmer

Nassalch to

Shpies

stoling Sament

furlaper od.

Sei

file Ture

20 %.

SECRET

COMFIDENTIAL

701-205.71s

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

M SARKLADI

---

## Page 51

1*4-00000

SECRET

(Then Filled In)

DO NOT USE THIS SPACE

ISRM NO.

Maric Ferrari

ISR

1613 L

× 8077

NAME

TRACE REQUEST

Gior NoAh

DOU MIN 5200.10

PLS CALL REQUISIOR WINY WECK IS COlTAD

aNN

D78645

DATE

3395

1o1 no 24 Nay 61

325 722

I - Depertment of the Alty

ALIASEE AND/OR SPELLING VORLATIONSY

None Indrosted

¡DATE OF DIRTH

17 Fob 190%

PRESENT ADDRESS

PLACE OF MATH

Posco, Puerto Rico

CITIZINGMIP

OCCUPATION

Mechanieal Engineer

PRIDENT IMPLOYMENT

PRAVEL

ODITIOMAL PERTINENT: IDENTIPYIMO DATA

MIT praduato - 1924 - Machinical Engineer

Heater Dogree, HIT, 1925

Called Arm

WH/3 has speratemal interer

0/5 - іден.

1 June 1961

•1:

Bubject l0 being utilized by a nenber of the

Interogency Source Register and has been duly

ragistered as such.

Refo

3/25161

3.. Abovo confiras telecon of 1 June 1961 between

I Mies Ferrar1 and Mrg. Utz of your offico.

IBRN- 9399

@line, tru

c/R. atol, not list,

BECRET

"PRIORITY"

SC/148

---

## Page 52

4-00000

ORTO.

UNIT •

EXT

DATE !

"L141)

N. H. SMITH

WH/ 3/DRCH

3054

20 SEPTEMBER 1360

655

то .

• BAN JUAN

FROM DIRECTOR

CONFI

INFO •

Fl, FI/INT 2, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEGRET

JUAN

8E78 J6L-520

INFO

201-2057:2

ROUTING

11474557

2050

SEP 20-

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

REL WALLE SECT.

INITIALS

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

OUr 71937

CITE DIR

01693

01693

REQUEST REPORI OF ACTION TAKEN REE.

END OF MESSIGE

W/Corments "Contact Iuis PERRE as Boon as posalble for infostation on the

dominican Republlo.

hief. Silvis.

ATINO

НДО Р. НОДИЛ, AС/Н/3

MOTMOMPIGATINO OFFERÒ

MIPRODUCTIONI

OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

## Page 53

14-00000

SECRET

Perso lo.: Jinin 52

Dato

: 13 July 1960

HER:ONANDUM FOR & WASTen S. TAUGER

FROM

SUBJECT

• Ch10s, WHD

General - Operational

Speciflo Subjeot of J-4*

ACTION REQUIRED:

Reference

Jonase requested to contact subjoot as soon as posaible and on a

continuing basis for Information on the internal political altuation 1n

tha Dominican Ropubllo.

Plies, talons

SECREI

---

## Page 54

14-00000

SECRET

in''e

DR

• 45

1 10 du

•1960

205712

2%

MEL: OR ARIDITI FOR 8 berTon 3. YAUGEP.

FROM.

SUBJECT

1 0b168, WID

3 Goneral a

Operational

Spec1f10 -

Inio Albart FERRE

(0-82943)

ACTION REQUIRED: S0e paregraph 2.

Referonce

You ars advised that Subject vas granted provisional operationel

approval on 31 May 1960 for the purpose of acsessing bim as a posablo

pource of information on the Dandnican Kepubllo, and for deteruining the

Sensibillty of his providing courier aocesa to that country.

2. To complato Subjoct'a olearancs for full operational approval,

Mora tannel to provido as promptly as posalbia the requialto PHa fart Il

Oliver 7 Zolland

OLIVER Q. GALBOND

SECRET

---

## Page 55

14-00000

201-205712

17110s

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/3/DR&cH

Atens

Nelson Smith

NUMBER

SUBJECT

C-82943

Luis Albert KERRE

REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated

4 May 1960

A Provisional Operctional Approval is granted for the use of this Subject

as set forth below.:

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grante the same

authority; on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority

granted in ar. Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA.

It 1s

based, however, only on preliminary file_checks and. Investigation.and.1g.sub-

ject to a further final review when all investigation 1s completed.

To procesa the Operational Approval, full Infornation (complated PRO

Parts I and II) must he submitted as soon as poosible and not later thun six

(5) montha fron thia date..

An Operational. Approval will follow whon all

Investigation Is complated and upon the receipt of satlainetory Ila Parto I

and II.

vialong

Cancellation must be

requested if use of Bubject by Interested D1-

Lame Cance

CI/OFURATIONAL APHROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

31 May 1960

ada

7.00 125 000

SECRET

30082:

20747

---

## Page 56

4-00000

SESHET

27 Hay 1960

REMORAMDUN TORI CULOS, GI/OA

unla Albert Fi:!

-8294

33 Ky 1960

and no sea pile sure old too a note soa

derogatory inforeston regarding sabjool..

So logarding jara 3 at' rafaranos, thia Divialan 18 n08"

Interanted in the investigation of poardblo isprention of ta

antlotrust leam by subjent. Cossaquantit, It la roquasrod

Eat 61/04 notIsy the Offles Of Soouraty to this eftoot.

N8/3/0008

SECRET

---

## Page 57

14-00000

SECRET

25 May 1960

MENDRANDUNI POR: ChIeS, WH/3/DRA

ATI-TION:

Nelson H. Snith

BUBBEL:

Luis Albart FErKE

6-82943

1. Attached for your information la a copy of a FBI memorandum

received this date fron the Office of Security.

Please advise

CI/A as to whether or not the information contained therein would

tend to affect subject's operational use.

2. Revier of Subject's file Indicatos that flold trace resulte

have not yet been received from your Division.

Please forward at

your earliest convenience for further. POA processing.

3. The Office of security, unless notifled to the contrary by

•I/OA, vill continue 1ts investigation, Sallowlag the FBI lead

provided in the last paragraph of the attached menorandum..

Chief, CI/QA

Attachment:

FBI Rpt ata 19 May 1960

SECRET

---

## Page 58

4-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION

DATE

TO:

с но.

17 May 1960

ada

: 82943

Luis Albert FERRE

WH/3/DR&H

Chief, CI/QA

NelBuns Stalch

those

20 1

In order that further consideration can be given to your request for approval in

this case, it is requested that you furnish this office the information checked below:

PRO !

TIOMAL A DIVISION TRACES

ITIONAL

DIOGRAPHIC IMFORMATION

No deran file hares (ju a Fartraits)

cHoA so adirsed 25 Way is.

LORET

1001

---

## Page 59

4-00000

80r Nelson I, Salth

FROM. PID

The roply on your rons ider loquart

100951

as dumpleras and conarion to clin

13,448

FERRE, Lüls Albert

---

## Page 60

14-00000

BLAME

1:0N IS GUASSI91ED:

SECRET

tase Albert MR C-B2943

2. ALIASES, VARIENT SPELLIDES, CSE MUMBERS, ETE.

S. BIRTH DATE

3. CITIERSMIRADO, PROTTO 8100

.. PRESENT ACTIVATIY AND LOCATIOS

8100, OfflOes 15 Mleal end Men I05%

OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

I--

Bianical engineer (dogres fru

enrechusetta Instituto of Technolog

8O MILLIARY SERVICE

SERVICE ARM, COUNTRY

SPECIALTY

Unknown

PAST

OCCUPATIONS

ACTIVITY.

I NAL 10EO

RESPONSE TO GREEN LIST

REQUEST N° 100951

¿ATE OF REQUEST

2 May 1960

REQUEST FRON

HAME OF ORIGINATING OFFICER

OFFICE DESIGMATOR

Folson H, salth

ROOM, BUILDING

WV3/086H

EXTENSION

2005 Berton Hall

2056

14. WAS COMTINUING SEARCH REGUESTEDI

- YES

15. TYPE OF SEQUEST

JFIRST TIME SUBMITTEO

-ACOITIONAL DATA

COVER

16.

INTEREST IN SUBJECT

"ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

X-OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

OTHER

17. INFORMATION REQUIRED

LOCATION:

DATES

LOCATION

DATES

1618t

• NO

sonage det

alt nie to bigg

10. DESCRiPTION

(HEIGHT)

(HEIGHT)

11. SPOUSE: (IF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN MAME)

155

12. OTHER MEANERS GPAGAEMSTETRAILT AU ALSOCIES

(EYES)

Hones

(HAIR)

021: 427

HE 13 3 3009

(RACE)

(ОТНЕЯ)

4-- d0s left aback

• OTHER SIONIPICANT DATA (PULITICS, RELIGION, ET

Sapubllars (Bletsbood) Peaty, sal

ATTACH EXTRA SHEETS HIM WEEDED

INSTRUCTIONS:

11.1. 601 u08

INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.

SENU BOTH SHEETS TO FI/D.

SECRET

SEE 681-10-7

101

---

## Page 61

14-00000

SECRET

TO: delson 3. Satth

FROM: FI/D Lu

• CATE

6.

Nosed =

Діло

SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FU/O BIOGRAPHIC FILES.

A MEMORAMDUM IS ATTACHEO HERETO.

MITH THE LIMITED IDEMIIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST, FI/D IS UMABLE TO

DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

FI/D MASTO PerEIMeritFORMATION ON SUBJECT, IF A CONTINUING SEARCH MAS

REQUESTED IN SECTION 14, INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT WILL BE REPORTED TO

YOU AS IT BECOMES AVAILABLE.

THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

and cerac dandon dollerod

MOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEW THE SUATECT IS MO LONGER IMPORTANT TO TOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOMING CANCELLATION

MOTICE COMPETED, SHOULO BE SENT TO FI/D.

REVIEW YOURSFILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/D THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO

LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING NAME CHECK.

PLEASE DO NUT TIE UP FI/D°8

ACILITIESINITH CONTIMUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS MOT REQUIRED

A5457

101 79

.;. т0:

FROM:

FI/D

DATE

МАТ ЗАТ ТІКА

MAKE

•OFPICE DESIGNATOR

ROOM, BUILDINO

CANCEL THE TOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

---

## Page 62

14-00000

Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT FORAB, Luis Albrt

SECRET

ATTENTION

Nelson i. smiti

WH/3/DRkH

5-03291359

ROOM

1021

5-3, "P. 2329

5-3, po

bLOG.

Barton Hall

F.1.2601dg

Central Cover Division concura in your proposal to use the above individual

for the purpose indicated. In keeping with the requirement placed upon Central

Cover Diviaion to maintain an accurate regiater of current nonofficial cover

... activity, you are specifically requested to advisa Central Cover Division/Non-

Official Cover promptly by menorandun when subject has "been activated.

→ If check mark appears here, information of interest concerning subject

-B In CCD/NC {1208.

After operational approval is recrived, and prior to making

arrangements fo; Initial contact thereunder, you are specifically requested to

confer with CCD/NC concerning other Agency interests posalbly affected and the

advisability of additional coordination.

CÓPY TO

CI/OA

678

DATE

11 May 1960

TURE OF CHIRP,

CCO/MC

John &. Southard

CED CONCURRENCE

13370

---

## Page 63

14-00000

JECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCLANT.MT

SOLARES IDENTIFICATION

NA FILE tO.

FERRE, deis Cilhert

ANALYST

". Forder carpro yate. Dard orsace

1: Bт8810100180 10

I- DATE

JA- CALUATION

18. CROSS REFERRIO TO TAIS FILE

•1 BIL8' M0.

PERI LAIME LUI LAMATIOM

THERE IS A RESTRICTOD.CI/OA jOHDER ON THE SUBJET

OP TEAS 202 HEN UNDER CASIGHS

FILE THIS FORM IM FILE NO,

901-05942

SEOMET

19:40

na: 18

---

## Page 64

SECRET

REQUEST FOR

APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

T0:

CI/Operational App-oval and Support Dir1s101.

Security Suppori Diviaion/Orfico of Security

SUBJECT:

(трое пала)

Lots Albert FIARE

СВТРТОНТИ, РАКИДОНТИ, АЛЯ ОВ ДАІЛЬКВ

GaTE

в кот 2960

¡FROM:

18/3/1888

ROJECT

CR/DA FIRE NO.

al s01 pise 0o.

802-205722

NO PILE DO.

TYPE ACTION

REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

COVERT MANE CHICK

SPECIAL IMOUIRY (SO idola lavooridarion)

OFFICIALE

INDIVIDUAL

OR ACTION REQUESTED

MMOVISIOMAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL.

OPIRATIONAL APPROVAL

IDIOMAL CONRAT ANCURITY APPROVAL

APPROVAL FOS LIAISON

USE

SPECIFIC ARTA DE USE

FULL DETAILS ON USE

Dondelara iasubisa

sub foot seo aunanarloon in tha Dondalaen Repabl10, and 16 13

sallalaatad thas do nos provido unasal inforaszlos on,

manga silling os unaiting employass, courior soceso to i

andara Ropublle

33001 07-9-3609 liste.

INVESTIGATIVE COVER

INMENT INTEREST IN HIM?

I ves

KOT IN HIMT

COVIRAOR DEBIRRO IN THE SUCURITY ORFICE

INYESTIGATION

NO

INVESTIDATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIM PULLY

EQUIVALENT

FOU IVALENT

PRO AND

GREEN LIST STATUS

(RI COPIE

ATTACHED

IPRO I: JILL DE FORZARDEO

IN• 111: COPY ATTACHED

GREEN LIST ATINCHES, NOI

FIELD TRACES

NO

RECOND

INTORMATION Of VALUE

HOT IMITIATRO (BADination;

IMPCRUATION ARRANED, WITH. EMAGUATION

SE FORWARDED

RI THACHO (E

NO RECOND

AMATURE OF CADE OUTICEN

LA MON. ORROSATORY

DIVISION THACES

(Dacodotory Incordacion and Bralun ion Altachad)

ресожа

_3 94-0290099097

INTRNDION DIONATURE OS DRAMEN CMIRA

8056

Ics P. Holnea, 40/M1/3

4-da 772 vee Previona

SECRET

ORNOQATORY

DERODATONY

423.

---

## Page 65

VA;

SES 38

CLASSIFICATION

DISPArCH NO. _HIPSA-2519

OCT 1 3 1957

& Chies, WiD

FROM : Chlas as Station, Sen Jees lat

SUBJECT: GENERA— OpATALIOnaI

"SPECIE-FAQ Part I - IT. Inde Albert Foste

DATE:

Atlached 1a PAQ Part I as inbjooto. PRA Part II v12l fallou it a lator dato.

Willin 5Fadane

TILLIAH Si PADANT

Attachsents

PRQ Pt II, Undor Soparato Cores

17. October 1951

Beribution

-Headquartare, w/at

MIN. 81-28A

SECHST

CLASSIPICATION TA PY

301-205712

---

## Page 66

14-00000

"SONAL RECORD QUESTIONSAIRE

PART I - BIOLRAFEICAL INFORMATIOS

Inatruction:

Full Namo.

1.

2.

Writo clearis.

Anever all questiona completoly.

Is question does

not apply, vito "not applicablo".

3.

Attach blani pages 1f additional spaco 18 noodod.

Ixis

Albert

Ferre

First

Hiddle

Last

Rase in sative script _

3. Hase at birth (18 different fron 1.).

:1. Al1ase8, aicknames, logal changos (State brioply,tioo; reason and

pLace of uBe.)_

HPS/PROLU13

3. B. Deto of birth 17 Pob 2904 D. Placo of birth. Posco, Puerto Rdoo

6. Prosent eitizenship, raco 18 appropriato_ Anarloan - Unito

lo Nationality at birth and any subsequent nationalities (19 different

fron 6.).

8, Present rouidence (Orner, tenant, aub-tenant.) Oiner

RolAs More Sto 12, Ponco, Puerto Pávo

9: Permanent addrese (1I diffurent from 8.)

10: Present occupation (Pull title, salary otc.).

T108-Preaident, Pesto Industries - Over $25,000.

Maturalization of subject or of close rolatives in the United States.

(Oste deto and name 1n which cortificato grantod.) -

de. Rolativos, friende, correspondento in United Staton. (Explain re-

Lat1oanhip)-

059109: 03-081

901-205012

---

## Page 67

14-00000

EPS /PRQ/143

13. Fathor - full name occupation, present residenco, your aná placo

of birth, rationality at birth and subsequent natlonalities.

litonto FarTo; Is Alberbra, Ponco, P. Ro 3-DO5A In Cube, 9 Jane 1877s cARa to

carto Rico 18941 American.

Hother - same information an 13.

MAry Agaryo, born In Ponco, Po, Do, 18798 decessad.

15. U1S0 (or husband). - full nase, saldon nemo, dato and placo of birth,

dato and place of sarrlage, nationallty at birth and any subsequent

notfonalities, present residenco, divorco, annulment. (Give data

Por all provious narrlagen.)

corona to raises do rollanos here l sula 1905, san dorman, P: 81 Anonican

Loranoita "FERRE

16. Children - full nanes, sex, year and placo of birth, nationalfty

it birth and any subsequent nationalities, present residonce.

17: Brothere and sistere - Same information do 16.

1044 0 1. 1805, Pon . RelAtes.

Larranta

DATIOn I XIArTOI Da 1907, FORCe, Po ReS AsarloAn

• 8

201-005 212

---

## Page 68

14-00000

HPS /PRO/LLS

18. Relatives

1n

sorvice of any goverasent, samos and positions bold.

Fone.

19. Met all Olficial Identity papera hold vita dates, numbero, place or lanua

¡ ase duration a validity.

б. 8. Passport 43452Ps 1arred 1953, San Joas; Po B.

20.

Roligion - degree practiced, semberable in roligious ordore

Somen Cathollo.

21:: Present and past political aff1l1at1ons

Bopab21can (Btatchood) Party.

22. Travel outaide country of present realdence - country, detes,

purpose, peoplo and firma vinitod

Dempo, Tosasiole, Cuba.

Businoss and traval.

23. Eduation - school, location, course, ¿agres, dates

SoTTIston suhool,

Masonshuratta Instituto of Tochnology) BoB, le MoBo, Machendoel Sagloca

24. Languagos and dialecta (Indicato proflalaney as good, Pair, poor.)

Languago Bpanted spoak _I Road 3!

Undoretend_ I_

LanGuage perliah speak I Read 8

Understand

__ Vadorotand !

201-205212

---

## Page 69

14-00000

EPS/570/243

25. M111CATy sOrTICe - dates, country, unlt, rank, duty, uhoro

BOTTICOR perfOrDed, decoratlons, when discharged, uhy. Give

dorella 11 over priacoos of var

Ro. Present and past membership in organizations (professional, soclal,

political, oto.)

¿Lans Clubs.

MArICEn SoOloty Macherioel Sagineers.

27: 8pectal akills, ablilties, hobbles (radio, photography, otc.)

Paro playings sosaing,

Pinancial atatus - caraings, bank:deposite, securities, proporty

capital over $1,000,000.

Karalage отох 850,000, Jearly.

89: sayloyant history - typo os vorki relary, dates, employero, ad-

arannon, sanema tor loavine. Include amploysent by any government.

Loonitos. - Posse Cement Corpo, Ponce, P. R.

Tioe-Pros.

• Puerto Rico Iron Morio, Ponco, P. R

¡No, • Presto R1oc OlAss OOrp., Ban Juan, P. Bo

F1o8-PrOs. :Fuorto Rice OJEJ OOTpi, Sen Juan, P. 8.

- Yebros Hesional lisasio, Malguatta, Venomola

- Josenter Healenalen, santiago do Cuba

Tas i ronge produoto Ino., Mazd, T7e.

- Faule Industrton, Mard, 110.

• BABOo do Pondo, PoRco, '8 de

206/20502

L

---

## Page 70

14-00000

H8 /P70/212

29. (Contioned)

30. Bae subject done any triting? Giro dotalle Includiag titlon of

booko, estiolno, publiabore, dates.

stlodes ons Industriel Democracy

Leerican C1t1senskip

cemeat Planta

Sugar Mll

3to. Ilot persons 11ving at sane address, closo associates, (Iráividuale or

groupe,) correspondente at hone and abroad.

he Matrol irons, one ele

32. U1et siro oharaator referencon.

Judgo/ Jorz0 La CordotatoLas, Ben Juas, P. Bo

201-20,712

---

## Page 71

14-00000

HIPS/PRO / 1L3

33: court rocord : court, dato, errosto, charges, punlobsanto,

pontancoo, acquittalo, donaz1ficatlas, oto..

A. DancrIption (Uno AnerIcan standardo Of sasourodent, 18 posalblo.)

Ада-

Apparant a80_ 50

Boisebt 51171

Postura: 8352162s

Welght

155

Tooth

shored

8a18

Pren

Boara.

On last aback bone

Build

Blender

taco a shapo.

Oval

Complesion_

Watto

вах.

Melo

Gonoral appoaranco.

ironinont coatures.

Other 1dont15y1n8 Sostures.

33. Othar miscollaneous blographloal dats and commento.

201=805712

7902

: 1.!s

---

## Page 72

Seb foct

"s oura tend

A TABONAL RECORD. QUESTIONTA IRE

PART I. - BIOGRAFHICAL INFORMATION

Instruations

1. Writo clourly:

Anavor all questiona completely

.If question doos

ot apply, volto "noi applicablo"

3.

Attach blank pages 1f additional spaco 18 noodod.

Luis

Albert

FERRE

81r8t

Middle

Last

2. Nase 1n sativo script _

sản a. từ

?'.

3. Hann at birth (18 disferent STOR

A. Al1as0s, nicknamés, logal changes (State briefly tino; reason and

place of uso.)

11°1

3, ai Dato or berta Fel 17/1904. . Placa of orthi Pance, Poent, Qica

Present citizonohip, race 1f appropriato._

-Amerian - Whits

7. Hationality at birth and any subsequent nationalitios (11 different

[TOn 6.)

=8.

Present residence (Oner; tenant, sub-tenant.) _

Ouser.

Reina Mora St. # 2., Pasce, PR.

9. Permanent address (18 different fron 8.)

3..

10. Present occupation (full titia, Balary etc.) ~i¿

Vice-Pres. Ferré Iráustries - Quer $25,000".

11.

Naturalizetion of subject of of clone rolativos in the United Statos.

(O1y0 dato and name in uhich cortsficato grantod.).

22.

Rolativos, friendo, correspondente In Unitad States, (Esplain to-

"'.

"¡jd.

1Y 1900 08-98

---

## Page 73

14÷00000

_Fel

13. Father - full sono occupation, prosent residence, year and placo

os birth, nationality at blith and aubsequent nationalition.

ANTONIO

TERAE.-

do Palhaenbro- Ponce, Puerto Rico-

0or... in

Come

Cube 1827- fu 1,

1894. -Ameraces.

Mother - sane Intorgation as 13.

Bora

Ponse,

Puerto Rico: 1879.

Deceised.

15. U1f0 (or husband) - full ruso, alidos name, dato and place of birta,

dato and place of nartlago, natsonality at birth and any subreques

nationalities, prosent residence, dirarco, annul.

(Give datal FERRE

de

Mittrellons.

Bera Vuly S 1905, San Gernas Puerto Ricos

Птень са

6014116

Troy

16.. Children - full names, sox, rear and place of birth, nationalfty

Hat birth and any subsoquent nat?

nalities, present residence.

Autonio Luis Ferre Buntely (DYp.FS Rico

Famery.

Rosario FFerrel

17. Brothere and

Bane IntornatIon as 16.

José

Rosario

Bica 1902 - Recca P.l.„ Amenics

Beca 1905 -

Carlost.

118e7-""

Herraeni

Ferre

Bora

1908

Isolina Kerre de:

1914

---

## Page 74

14-00000

18. ROLALITOS LA BETTICO Of ROY GOTETIERE, DESOR 2Dd

None.

161003 bald.

19. L1at all offscial Identity papora bold uith datos, mumbars, place of lorra

and duration of vallaity.

U.S. Passport # 3952P - Issur 1953

Juda.

80, 10188109 - daçiao practiced, manborahip 1a rollelona ordaro

Roman: Catholie -

tracing a clar

wis song tip dement

21, Present and 'past political affiliations

Republican (Stitiloor) Port,.

• іс тає.:

82. Tratal outaldo country of prosent ronidenco - country, dator, :

purpose, poople and f1rus viaitod

;:C; 4: 12:13973

Euripe, Venezuelo, Cuba.

Boseness &Truel.

29407% •

1:d2/003 121:9.100.2451

23: Iduontion - school, location, course, dogree, dates

"tar forre Piblic" Schools.

Morristown School i New Versey.

Mess, Trot. of Technology - B.S, MS. Mapleas

24, Languagou and dialecte (Indicato proficlency in good, fair, poor.)

anguage Spencil speas V. Read i

_ Undorarand

Languago Enpless spork Road ~ Understand _1

anguago Fresed spoak -

_ Undorstand k

T3 40

•3.

---

## Page 75

14-00000

_PROL

23. M1I1reTy sortice - dares, country, unit, rans, dury, ubere

corTicos porTatood, docorations, uhan diesargod, say, Givo

dotalla 1s over prisaas af var

:::

19015

,"e!"'"

86. Prosini and poor so

ablp la organizations (profounional, social,

political, orc.)

drois Clubs.

Amenceo Sacroky Mechance Engusions.

i0", 58.122605)

SET

87. Bpecial akille, ab111t108, hobbles (radio, phoiography, ote.)

Prano playing. Fenning:

28, Pinancial statua - darnings, bani deponita, socurities, property

Capital aver 881,000,000%

Earnings: over 854000 yourly.

29: Employment hletory - tips of vork, salary, datoo, esployora, at-

aronsos, roasons for leaving. Include enployment. by any government.

ST6 7e Vere - Pres.

Pance Coment Corp., Pance Pil.

P.R. Iron Works,

Pres.

r. P.

P.R. glass Corp. - San Juse PiA.

PoP. Clay

---

## Page 76

_/870L_

29.

(Cantimed)

Pers. - Febrio Nocral Vidria - Morgue Do -Vorajoa,

Dir.- Casantos Nocrueles- Scatago de Cubai Cabo

Arises - Parre Products Ine a Mics, Flee.

Dir: - Maule Indotrios .'

win fat.

Banco de Pance. Pance, P.R

At tad

inchina

30. Has nubject done any uriting? Gito dotaila Inoluding titlou

-booke, artiolos; publiehers, datos.

Hans.

Farretes

Industrial Desecrary

Faercas

mace des:

Cement Plants.

Malls.

31. Ilst porsons 11u1ng, at sena address, ologe associatos, (indivianalo or

groups,) correspondents at home and abroad.

My: tree Brottags

(MA, Maniel MiNayand, Ponce, Puant Rice

Se. 1101 Piro chanel referico Pant Toro, Perce, Ponto Rico.

(Go.) belter SiBligb, ALC. 42 He. Now York Lily.

(adge Jorgo L Cordova, Diat, Sea Xusn Dierio Riio.

so dossie

---

## Page 77

33. Court rocard a court, doto, arronto, chargos, pualobaento,

contanaos, acquittalo, donasification, oto.

None:

3à. Dosaription (Use Anarioan etendarde of seaourocant, 18 poseiblo.)

ago.

53..

Apparont 080 =: 50

Boers

couplazion

wide.

Posturo

Volght

Stered

155

footh.

8a1r.

Brown

Ваго -

as left check dee

Bulld.

Slender.

General appearanco.

Prominent Lostures

Othor 180nt1fying Soaturos.

35. Othor aiscollandous biographioal date and commento.

1954

"!".

04221

2207

1260it

Alanin de cand da

warrenaset

Borat.

De Fass

1523

2S 17:

---

## Page 78

т.

A SECRET.

districano

8P

DATS -

288-713 2359

росатетсая да: КР3-8-497, 23 йоко 29558 В. IPB44-81; 21 {077, 2550

darlos Rogustade: Bon pare. s

80т сотате

Locluded 10 a

1181 0s naBeta Malch the slitlon has Sos corasalas operato=s,. ca

vall as

operational Icals, tha porchelalities of tiles to c'it":a

so Ineseicatingo

dodsco ration os contemplated la rostris to fic?

• thate anance of deado, le also sor toria

aris «112 br. Sorvardad la leadquartare on dovelop=unt of 141

ртортаві

parations lasde.

Thoro sallora e report on the prospeso sadò by ise stat" in

Toura SETILuLE Operational•Approval

Prented in iFs".-:."

aveLop parsons in forto

LAVY ACCESS TO ESTED!

Кервь Lo

ard can chior

(2) EXTRAORS ren boen contected end earleed of the setiration

of oporations asalnot the Dordntera Ropublic. It mat do polnted out that

ELDADIls atestado has 00o.

Doranhat torom taline an active part da operas

d+9a Sistrete

NAUse of the LonE paris.

12 ühich ko kis ait: ?tod

Es maltial, contact tilth ass

159т4..

and, at tha sent

he inforead that

x2ath059.5

КАРОК*

«ІТУСІ

Lº Сул54.

22-6-

---

## Page 79

SECRET WSC

DETO RECCiO Li DO LOTISTO DO VeS CITIES OS i portanco os useso.

ant 1% VIa decIded to ProC¿? fITOE

ecauso, fI-3 10 rory vill ton.

oter Unli arca aid 10

UcMal ly all no brau lie, staline los bess tratruetid to epproach l

10d1 rectly tarcus. a cunoir.

no cuhout mill t??.

ретвогя.

sodend and close confident for tary

услга, 2:3373.1

гс зхя

do a BeadOr mizDes of the pollelcal

party hescod tyin-Je-d a

reader of the

local lorialicuro.

taturallo, so Indicatios of :

pod surtire polnt bocauso ho lo the ormor of rany businesica ln tho curitbea

as and in tatans and has had tany persons vorking sor bin oses a parlod o

sTA sno ora llA alloplesa. Isla includes parsona 1n lha DOsascRa Bapubllo

(2) Another suggestion by SERUME aster ore accoptod vuzo that

→ poved out to Rational Caprd Leuterent Colonals wider lla cozend so

le access to persons trareling to and sroa tha lomnican Papublle froi

fuesto Piço.

Puerto B100..

д;.

'90) BENNIS vIll Incorrion there en. Sor oporallonel

O) 'Il so belfored edrisablo de this tini to sourd out

¡RADO. throych blo formor colleagues, ahich will be dona la the sees futuro

iscortaln the ¿ruo nosero they tave vitain the Dozinican Republic. It 1o

Palt that SIOTADULEla Morale quat Do improred prios to asolearns this aidI.

Flone? art loed.

rab dan record.

SECRET

1247811270

8196-8-8223

587 80.

L

---

## Page 80

14-00000

$

ПА

DISPATCH NO.... IPSA-9IU

Ch10S, MID

DATE..

тОм

WENT aDIL Operationas.

BYECINC

DaniaICAn RapubiIo SiCuALION ROpOTE

IPSA-9t, 13 sun 55

for kondoriar t0r?

InPortation, the following 10 a foRum

of oursent

cirrel that lo netat

Isid 10

order to keep

up-raceto

and appl1o

hould tho occas

'part

tho

boss.

uin personna.

UndOr RAFT

Objac

d In

would

bo

Repub

tha

should

LORITALLON

19joot 18

пІвід

15е propared for

tha

83218

Lomantation Vl

1008.

further,

Chas Haidques

0041+18199}1n 54181111ng than Zanko. TATO

ting of tha covert donore siintainad 80s tira

10

tetan

elon of opo

Davaloping

Do porant

до вра ртудеті

sofian

батт

than

and

овостА

almine background incoration on person

ViELas IS PUOTLO RIco uho, ahoulo tha

astartele: Bhould arthing. napped

Rop bl o 118180? thato pareone would

In pо118100.

Bloations irilenting that thay and polent

•Apon lo sul 1a sur behall should the

B3n5X

cantal and sighs be caldod

22-6..4

---

## Page 81

14-00000

1P81-P42

ma starlon

abora directo see le linero

foole that

Mons 1n

Doadnican Repubile

вПов

all'of chase operationa

Rapubblo utsl18ire chird country

In aireeting su deforca lo to un em

18808

and acarelre point unan opera

NaCUSAlLy, Dos PrOVIOUA COrMeDanãO

so chade.

Morsad ITs out aldo. Une Domini can

01h08

se our incarast

under

tho

anant esporascaross.

shas vera va lo carry aparasional developrans of thass assolo

188 do Pole

al chla sloa chat un vould sua

I Suther

ok

B i sit to d the boca

having than fo: codd

and panel.

to work undor pros

8ool that cala de tha boss,

thad

pine on sarace on.

1 to sell come dared

ротавого.

1 good chosce an ¿ micur

Lact vich Doninicans

1о keep dras.

porsone. 11a408 bador esp conce

that: no

DO SODIAN ECHOLS DO SUDJOCE IN DELLI APOLLAUDA IATOUNNAIO DIASO

coateal vich nia. la salacednad through SKEDADDLE

contest vien 186 l a anarolas overse and do uestor paintaina accasionas:

so advestlaing bussmann and hes

Holly as the Docinican Ropublio

da opon an office in the dorain

contedle use atflolly bussness,

aral

luvomeone knou thee no will pot involve

брау что appars

has Indleator à villingnogs lo

arrantion in hia doaliner vich

visonoy that his proarast pot

•'(

Tha doElta ante.

pube

vasto R1000. Ho sa sion planning

hes lae cha benialsan Repubiso

Aléol! in any ai shale Dulleland

ad with inta arrangaranto subjeed.

hing of introdd that cones en too

Memdnteen Rapubido,

The statIon

anzeebon nare lo

of poets on a lo ano

of paramed, ayon

---

## Page 82

IPSA -219

pair, loadoro lo coneldarad is dá'paulo, bone the group aro eno follonnes

"DaR Do NIaIble MARna of supporEs posalbly dlros os

80dtal0, 100000.

CacantaCtaLI, Doninteen exslo, dotlro, operator a

• proso añop in Santuros, Puarto Reco.

of the plabare uno, regularly danone

reede snot on pho

alricAn RApublo Consularo in san JuAn.

jubjeot ran.

brocher uno lo a princar

In san Juan out 1

но '18 пов толо з екріоуло.

Sub:. ord

and so apparently

sarabla

and

conbly

reportal to tha local polden that

Do M1l1or of DE. QALINDEZ 1

uno in sas juan astor his.. Ha classad •

Coal cho killes vas a paran.

Local'inraelgation ded not

dona do publiosty altampt in the

antsoroyg1410 569p811200e1ly

nourance brokers, Subjecte,

sadlaine vich the Doninican

CoI

1na, occuplad an offlee in the sas

alato but hare novad reconely to the Coodado

polson ps sentarco.

Thay то

678: 20102 Arenio, dossro Dominican axale snides deso.

Le but

Puerto

in

ото

RAS

chie

result of

го вію

888

¿ PAPRIME' OLFIRIN and 10.

no tis or these borne une.

Ind

took

'andas

P05-

JANER 53

sho 10

and on

contaut

ODIREX

Ablo

прога

LOCAL ODINKA

urgested batt

poota,

---

## Page 83

.• Pago fous

(8) HilarId TURs, ¿arco RICAn, Somarly a l'ASTARE OSPICOS

Mea. cha CIC anl tir ópora ilne a phoes ahop anod by lla brornor-inolar on

Araalda: Ponce

Seop 1ã030, SANCUrCO, PUArLO RICO, MINICO EDA DOGÍAICRE

Lapubllo imaquantly lo 8o muntina

ales a prozinant dadnicas uno la bla clona

perennal frIend.

SoLA TirDO anl thia Daninican an arsent coch digas sar

ans la dualnieso ufcan bringo hla cocha lo sigh! In fuerto uican singa.

JUNTO de sacosandad Dy SCialTULa da complataly cualorty ans could be

approschas shoul1 cha nood artao.

ErAROLUCOTTOU-TURO, POraer jal Colonal, rätírai and noe

A mores paron Variana co la boda en se pulso.

MARic do PONCO BuLluIra, POnco, PuertO

jona of sigan vula and var daroduces al ona bica o co dora aja 02o00

a los in puerto

(4) Coplasa CAliPA, on acelvo duty vich che selecciro soinico,

MACuralIaad PEPILIME, 088180R. HIS

La tras veo &

Julo

vantas

cho

loatndoan

Robrolle, hoveror,

Doalnicen

Rapubl10.

rateria

fE 18 Maorad tel

no sereea uno sarlly e sove out a

flad an sóbeled haro.

LIPA shouL

roge persona on bach al do

К¡DDLE КЛОНА САЧЕРА В

una DominIcas Republio.

but sonow hli

ass car voll unan la vorkad

805 до? sаго... САУКРА 10

N1d0 oparassonal loado in

1100.

a pous, sordoua and probably porld pro.

Fueren

and

9209008 10 a100-hoal 08.

la aldo a manbos of the local lastaLatano uplA

Afoan StArahood. Party (APS1?1aç0 os tho

oan

anal do

alona.

chal party's carlidara por lha doternoranip In ebo

m lo SKIDaDiLE end soula provido eporao

la compary dons Muan businada la Cha DondrdasA Rapubli

• (6)

contsmasing conteos.lo

Ni lA sordos BanDera of LarDO PEPRIM

alto asintaind by station persoanal

Siras wich 0f81oes bosh rosa and in ta

antean Rapubila unien snaludo, for axerpla, lase srandasa dia Compary a

Чм Такаво Сатрату;

Thono

ab2o.phould.tha.noms era

onceara ass explosindle und could be tasa vel

Othor papeons

sould a paritaidar ds cuasion irseo.

vioso, urb. tontarray,

@'paradasson chrough oco.

badng a lojul: and good: 0$81008

Juring hla BRay in the perrica and ras dadoritad do

truj1ldo.rorone

D. Puarto. Rio0r. In à949 or 1950, soRDis purona

---

## Page 84

14-00000

Pago

be: is,

otto, de a nusplus salo a Pore Bicheren,

juarto alco, uhich ho had aripped to a soninican Dollo group. in Cuba uho

voro tron being tra1na1.

aldo engagad in socrultiny Puerto

doan ratarand, pronising

chon high malarias and rovardo 1e thay umla so

Lo cube int jola cho antlotrujallo forcos in talning thoso..

voro dant lo CubA viA Miarl,

hoveror,

one of the racruita

so cuba and diposed tha uholo

operation to cha Mless Harald undon vas

InaRTunantAl In blovne die proparasions balny made and expoolne Bornas.

1t' ald that the goremear. has enough

on his ts prosecure for scting

of

sarolen 2r0rp, hovaves,

116tl

sallen vas

agalnat.nla

comlasion vas rarokad, hoveror,

bacauss of tress sollultles

riparte

,:ORDS 18

cellne 18 pasy" becauso pla fira. do.

bualnasd

can Republic.

destrad,.

razo

Ho 1a inorm to SKIDADDL!

could be

003.

La row.

Prug1l1o agent in P

probally play bala.

vath pro-majillo o

us. la sos condidaso

пов and орат

Subser i ra or to be 1

a tina typo inho vorel

Ho pao asso contac

ровало!

nor do ha

• pal

so1blo. 8h00.

with antiamugallo Donindean

adad by. SHEDADOLE,

¡'ator a paraon of ule "ta

ado.

• It 3o re

beaked. by the denl

that the

negate race lo as area a polare bras

Welliar

n"S. Fadine

NILLLAM.SO

21 Cop tabor 1956

"etributlon

• 1o 5.0p1556

193-6.

d /

---

## Page 85

14-00000

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

SECRET

(When filled to)

PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST

! DATE

24/10/57÷

: 4,0000

коом NO.

ACTION

то

RI/ANALYSIS SECTION

TELEMONA

FROM

RI/AN

INSTRUGTIONS

Form mus be typed or prinind in black lesters

MCTROM & List 201 number, same and irtentifying dals in the spaces provided All koan aliases and variants (including maiden name, it

applicable) muse be lisied.

If the identlying dala varies with the alias ward, a separats form must be used.

Write UNKNOWN for items you

are unable to complete.

MCTION in List cryprunym or pseudonym. il assigned.

If true name is sensitive, abrain 301 number from 20t Control Lesk and complete

Sertion I and Saction Ill.

On a separaid form, enter the 201 number and complet Sarsion Il and Section III. Submit each form separately

MCTION Ilt To be complered in all casca

201 ма

SECTION I

205712 HRSA-01519

RECORD

OTHTA IGENTIPICATIO

OCC/ros. com

OCCUPATION POSITION

via-Pre gere Eductre,

CANTONTA

SECTION 11

BANDONT

SOUNTRY Of RESHIEL

SECTION III

10. ACTION DESK

11.

ИООМО CO. INY INTERBAT

WHt/3AN

12.

THIRO COUNTRY INIT 1381

PUNCHED

801-

205012

NENT OMAROA

MATRITED PHA

намитить

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

