# 104-10192-10266

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10192-10266

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

SATE

TO

FROU

ACTION:

INFO. *

•AY 62

DIRECTOR

INWAVE

TRi 10/MR CHARLES MATT, TEW, NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED

AT 1830 27 MAY)

DEI, DCP, ADOP, CA 2, CA/PRG, CA/PROP, S/C 22*

L'.

161"

2 PAPROP

MiY 27. 22162 62

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 41865

COIN TIP CITE MAVE 4271

CROCE

1. MIAMI HEPALD 27 MAY CARRIES FRONT PAGE ITEM BY JAMES BUCHANAN

EITLER "MIRD FADES AS EXILE CHIEF: THREE LATIN LEADERS BEHIND RAY".

ARTICLE FLATLY

CHARES HIND AND COUNCIL YAVE REE! PEPLACED BY MANTEL PAY WITH

MV :077 "ARIS, DOES ROILO BFTANCOURT AND FOR'ER PRES

FIGUERAS, THAT SAY HAS TAKEN OVER POST "WITH THE GLESSING OF THE

'IT'ESTATES", FUPTUSS, ARTICLES STATES "EPON VARIETY SOUACES HERALD

TAFE TUST "IRO MAS"OTIFIED CE CHANGE OILY THIS

WE AND THAT DIVE DRAPPOINTENT CE "CHIEF IN SILE CAME FROM "UNDER-

MR TA CUDA" ACCOODINE TO MDARUI" COLOY, PROVISIONAL MRP. HEND IN

•CAL METEO SUENISHINO RESUME CURAN ACTIVITIES SINCE ORIGIN CE AMRUD,

•STICLE CODITS CUEANS IN MIAMI WITH SAYING NEW MAN IN FIELD IS ADOLF

:. =OF MR. "YO MAS DEEN SPECIAL ASST TO STATE DEPT AND IS ALSO

--O ME PIES KENNEDY'S SPECIAL TASK FORCE ON LATIN AMERICA.

EIGHTION REING THAT REFLE IS RUNNING NEW UNITED STATES SPONSCRED

TIE PELEASE CAUSING CO'E FUROS IN LICAL CHEN COLONY SO EXTENT

LENCE ONE COS AGENT DESTINED FOR ISOLATION)IPAINING HAS

•CHED TO EE HELIEVEC IF THERE AY TRITH THIS STORY, MEANWHILE WAVE

SEGRET

Eiste tx9

000257938128

02÷857.52571

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Coọy No.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

:5

TO

FROM

ACTION:

INFO

:

PAGE 2

WAVE ACTT IN 41885

CHECKS WITH KNCILEDEESBLE CONTACTS. HAS PRODUCED LITTLE OTHER THAN

"'ILLIA: S. WIRALIA'S STATEMENT THAT BUCHANAN SOURNALISTIC REPUTATION

IMPICATES HE INACCUDATE AND SENSATIONALIST. AMCLAITER-S AND PASSOVOr

ATTEYPTING DISCRESTLY TRACE RUCHAMAN SOURCE FOR -U.S. BLESSING."

3. BUCHANAY HAS PREVIOUSLY ATTACKED MIRO LE DURING RETURN PLAYA

PIRAN POISONERS "IAMI. HAVE NO REAL INSIGHT INFO SIGNIFICANCE THESE

ATTACKS BUT BELIEVE THEY COULD PEFLECT BUCHANAN OR MIAMI HERALD

ATIE'PIS FORCE CHANGES IN UNITES STATES POSTURE RE CUBA.

A. EXPECT ASTICLE WILL HAVE FUPTHER RÉPROCUSSIONS AS IT SPREADS.

HISH ALERT HOS THAT IT MAY BE NECESSARY INITIATE ACTION DISCREDIT

FUCHANEN STORY AS VELL AS PEASSURE MIRO. WILL FORWARD SUGGESTIONS THIS

DECADD AFTER WE HAVE BPOOPTUNITY FUPTHER ASSESS STORY'S IMPACT.

S. POLCHING CLIPPING 2? MAY

END OF MESSAGE

5:208

SECRET

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

