# 104-10059-10057

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10059-10057

.. 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 E

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

H. Clark Schor

C/CCS/PRG

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

GH-44

1.

Has .

DATE

EXTENSION

1849

5004

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

NO.

DATE

• 27 January 1978

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whor

to whom.

Draw a line across column

after each comment.)

SA/ DO/0

2 D 0109 Hqs.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

RETURN TO CIA

Backgroard Us cnve

• Do Noi Reprosaus

15.

610 USE PRONOUS

SECRET

7 CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

06257

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

27 JAN 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: SA/DO/0

FROM

: H. Clark Schor

Chief, Plans and Review Group

Central Cover Staff

SUBJECT

: House A equEstmittee on Assassinations

REFERENCES

: A. Memo for SA/DO/0 fr C/CCS/PRG, dtd

25 Jan 78, Same Subject

B. Memo 02 San 0%, Same Sube 78-0070/2),

C.

Letter for OLC fr Chief Counsel/Director

of ASCA, dtd 6 Jan 78

1. This memorandum supplements Reference A and provides

the additional information per paragraph 6. therein, in re-

sponse to the request in Reference B.

CCS files contain information on individuals and

entities

cited in certain numbered items of Reference C as

follows:

a. Item 5 - George DeMohrenschildt -- five docu-

ments comprising tour contact reports with a commer-

cial asset who was in touch with Subject regarding a

business activity in Haiti, and one memorandum de-

tailing the results of a trace request on Subject.

The dates of the documents range from 25 April to

21 Mar 1963.

tem 9 - Leo Cherne -- L1 documents (s1x-1954;

ne-1955: two-1957: two-1958: one-1960: four-1962: and

one each-1965, 1967, 1968, 1976, 1977) all of which >

concern the establishment, maintenance,

and use of

cover provided by Subject

from 1954 to 1965 for a NOC

officer assigned to Paris: Additionally, CCS maintains

a file on the Research Institute of America, of which

Leo Cherne was Executive Director, comprising approxi-

mately 100 documents covering the period 1949 to 1964;

Mr. Cherne's name appears throughout this file.

E2 IMPDET

0625701 BY 004925

---

## Page 3

14-000,00:

SECRET

C.

Item 17 - William Harvey -- Approximately 50

documents, virtually all of which concern the estab-.

maintenance, and use of cover for Subject

during his career with the Agency as a Staff Employee

from 1947 to 1967.

d. Item 27

(1) International Rescue Committee --

12 documents (1962 to 1976) addressing Agency

non-usé of IRC, and FOIA requests.

(2) Alexander Rorke -- No record in

CCS.

e. Item 29

(1) Richard Helms -- Approximately 25

documents (1956 to 1974) concerned primarily

with TDY travel orders, cover documentation,

and clearance verifications.

(2) James Angleton -- Approximately 25

documents (1950 to 1975) concerned primarily

with IDY travel orders, cover documentation,

and retirement processing for Subject who

was a Staff Employee of the Agency from 1947

to 1974.

(3) Raymond Rocca

-- Approximately 25

documents (1964 to 1975) concerned primarily

with cover matters pertaining to Subject who

was a Staff Employee.

f.

Item 30 - No record in Ces of correspondence

do the Messian cation atten ted scentified in-

.8.

Item 36

(1) Southern Research Corporation --

No record in CCS.

(2)

Wackenhut Corporation -- 100 to 150

documents covering the period 1963 to 1977

and concerning primarily contacts with 24

Wackenhut

t2--

I. Clark schor

- 2-

SECT

BR

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRETI

27 JAN 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: SA/DO/O

FROM

: H. Clark Schor

Chief,

Plans and Review Group

Central Cover Staff

SUBJECT

: House Select Committee on Assassinations

(HSCA) Request

REFERENCES

: A. Memo for SA/DO/0 fr C/CCS/PRG, dtd

25 Jan 78, Same Subject

8. Mono 12 San %%, Sa 0 Sube€ 78-0070/2),

C. LotterscA,

C. Letter for OLC fr Chief Counsel/Director

of HSCA; dtd 6 Jan 78

1. This memorandum supplements Reference A and provides

the additional information per paragraph 6. therein, in re-

sponse to the request in Reference B.

2. CCS files contain information on individuals and

entities cited in certain numbered items of Reference C as

follows:

Item 5 - George DeMohrenschildt -- five docu-

nents comprising four contact reports with a commer-

cial asset who was in touch with Subject regarding a

business activity in Haiti, and one memorandum de-

tailing the results of a trace request on Subject.

The dates of the documents range from 25 April to

21 Mar 1963•

b.

one-1955; two-1957; two-1958; one-1960; four-1962; and

187, 1068

concern the establishment,

officer assigned to Paris. Additionally, CCS maintains

a file on the Research Institute of America, of which

SECRET

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 004925

BR

---

## Page 5

14.000.00

SORET!

c.

documents, virtually all of which concern the estab-

during his career with the Agency as a Staff Employee

from 1947 to 1967.

d. Item 27

(1) International Rescue Committee

12 documents (1962 to 1976) addressing Agency

non-use of IRC, and FOIA requests.

(2) Alexander Rorke - - No record in

cCS.

e. Item 29

Richard Helms - Approximately 25

documents (1956 to 1974) concerned primarily

with TDY travel orders, cover documentation,

and clearance verifications.

(2)

James Angleton -- Approximately 25

documents (1950 to 1975) concerned primarily

with lly travel orders, cover documentation,

and retirement processing for Subject who

was a

Staff Employee of the Agency from 1947

to 1974.

actors pete cons to Subject wo

was a

Staff Employee.

f.

volving Messrs. Helms, Angleton, and Rocca.

g. Item 36

(1) Southern Research Corporation --

No record in CCS.

(2) Wackenhut Corporation -- 100 to 150

documents covering the period 1963 to 1977

and concerning primarily contacts witif

Wackenhurt officials.

24

H. Clark Schor

-2-

SECRET

---

