# 104-10182-10069

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10182-10069

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

235

CATE

: 17 DEC 60

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO

• DIRECTOR

FROM

• LEOPOLOVILLE

ACTION, C/AF 3 (MR HOUCK AF DIV NOTIFIED 1515 17 DEC).

INFO

/ COP, C/CI, G/FI 2, G/LE 3, S/C 2

ROUTING

DEC 17 1856Z 60

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 18739

OPIM DIR CITE LEOP 0478-

RYBAT WIROGUE

REF A.

DIR 16116 (CuT 52272)

File RSWiN

B.: BERN &595-/N15973)

C. BERN: 8537 1N49492)*

Baus

wrot

1. WIROGUE EOD 2 DEC. HESTON MADE INITIAL CONTACT AND GUTHMAN

NOW HANDLING. WIROGUE GIVEN FOLLOWING INSTRUCTIONS:

A. BUILD COVER DURING INITIAL. PERIOD. THIS RESPECT, WIROSUE •

SAID PLANNED SET UP

P. SHOP WITH AUTOMATIC CAMERA TO TAKE IDENTIFICA-

TION PICTURES.

SAID WOULD INSTALL POLAROID CAMERA SO CLIENT COULD

PUSH BUTTON-AND• TAKE OUN PICTURE. GUTHMAN AGREED THIS WORTH

EXPLORING, AS WOULD APPEAR PROVIDE INEXPENSIVE COVER.

B. WIROGUE TOLD TRY SPOT PERSONS FOR SURVEILLANCE TEAM, INTEL

ASSETS (WITH EMPHASIS ON ORIENTALE PROVINCE) AND PM ASSETS. HE

TOLD SUBMIT NAMES ANY LIXELY CANDIDATES TO STATION FOR TRACES

PRIOR MAKING APPROACH.

2. QUWIN WHO RESIDES SAME HOTEL AS VIROGUE REPORTED LATTER

TOLD HIM HE HAD LIVED ALASXA, JAPAN, SOUTH AMERICA, GERMANY AND

OTHER PARTS EUROPE. QUIN SAID WIROGUE SMELLED AS THOUGH HE IN

INTEL BUSINESS. STATION DENIED ANY INTO ON VIROGUE. 14 DEG QUWIN

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHES THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIRITFO

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

SECRET

705.+78

18739

REPORTED VIROGUE HAD OFFERED HIM THREE HUNDRED DOLLARS PER MONTH

TO PARTICIPATE IN INTEL NET ANO. BE MEMBER "EXECUTION SQUAD".

WHEN QUIN SAID HE NOT INTERESTED, VIROGUE ADDED THERE WOULD BE

BONUSES FOR SPECIAL JOBS. UNDER OUWIN QUESTIOVING, VIROGUE LATER

SAID HE VORKING FOR PAPRIME SERVICE.

3.

OJUIN INTRODUCED VIROGUE TO HOFHUIS.

VIROGUE CASEO IN

LETTER CREDIT MITH HOFHUIS TO GET GOOD EXCHANGE RATE. QJWIN REPORTS

VIROGUE HAS PURCHASED THREE AUTOMOBILESSINGE ARRIVAL LEOP;

CHRYSLER FOR S5000 FRANCS, CITROEN FOR 25000 FRANCS AND TRIUMPH

FOR 110002 FRANCS.

VIROGUe TOLD aJVIN HE SOLD CITROEN FOR 15000

FRANCS BUT IT STILL PARKED NEAR HIS HOTEL.

*. 40 AT 13 DEC MEETING WIROGUE SAID HE PURCHASED CHRYSLER FOR

75000 FRANCS. MADE NO MENTION PURCHASE OTHER CARS. ALSO SAID HAD

RENTED TUO STORES, ONE IN LEOP EUROPEAN CITY FOR 14900 FRANCS

PER MONTH AND ONE IN NATIVE CITY FOR 6000 FRANÇS PER MONTH. ALSO.

HAS SIGNED CONTRACT FOR APARIMENT FOR 8008 FRANCS PER MONTH. ASKED. "

SUTHMAN FOR THREE THOUSAND DOLLARS RENTAL ALLOVANGE WHICH HE CLAIMS.

HOS CASE OFFICER TOLD HIM HE WOULD RECEIVE IN LUMP SUM. GUTHMAN

REFUSED, SAYING WOULD HAVE OBTAIN HOS APPROVAL PAY RENTAL ALLOWANCE

IN LUMP SUM.

IN DISCUSSING LOCAL CONTACTS, VIROGUE MENTIONED @UWIN BUT

::DIO NOT ADMIT TO HAVING TRIED RECRUIT MIM. THEN GUTHMAN TRIED

LEARN WHETHER VIROGUE HAD MADE APPROACH LATTER CLAQNED MAD TAXEN

NO STEPS. GUTHYAN WAS UNABLE CONTRADICT, AS DID NOT WISH REVEAL

QUWIN CONNECTICN XUBARX......

6. LEOP CONCERNED BY VIROGUE FREE WHEELING AND LACK SECURITY.

STATION HAS ENOUGH HEADACHES WITHOUT WORRYING ASCUT AGENT WHO NOI

SECRET

REPECORUETION AY OTHER TUT ISSUING OFTIC iS PAOHIBITED

PAGE 2

---

## Page 3

MAJDIPICU MESMUC

SECRET

ip 0-18

IN

18739

ABLE HANDLE FINANCES AND UHO NOT WILLING FOLLOW INSTRUCTIONS.

IF MOS DESIRES, WILLING KEEP HIM ON PROBATION, BUT IF CONTINUE

HAVE DIFFICULTIES, BELIEVE VIROQUE RECALL BEST SOLUTION. ALTER-

NATIVE WOULD DE PUTAIM IN STAN ONCE MENUCHIN RETUPNS TO TRY

OBTAIN IMMEDIATE INTEL THAT AREA.

7. REQUEST MOS INSTRUCTIONS PRIOR 13002, 19 DEC RE GIVING

PAGE 3

VIROGUE YEARS RENTAL ALLOVANCE: LATTER CLAIMS NEEDS THESE FUNDS

VIEU CAR PURCHASE IN ORDER SET UP COVER MECHANISM. IF VIROGUE TO

REMAIN, BELIEVE MUST GIVE HIM AT LEAST ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS, AS

BELIEVE HE SHORT FUNDS.

ALSO REQUEST INSTRUCTIONS DE VIROGUE PAY.

LATTER SAYS HIS CONTRACT CALLS FOR FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS SALARY PER

MONTH. SAID ME NOT PAID FOR NOVEMBER. STATION GAVE HIM ONE

PAYMENT FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS. HOWEVER WISH HAS CONFIRMATION THIS

CORRECT AND AUTHORITY PAY HIM IN DOLLARS PER HIS REQUEST. (VANTS

DOLLARS AS BLACK MARKET EXCHANGE RATE WHICH USED BY MOST PERSONS

HERE. TVENTY TO FORTY PERCENT BETTER THAN OFFICIAL RATES.

8. NOT ABLE PICK UP LETTER CREDIT PER REF A. VIROGUE SAID HAD

SIVEN IT TO HOFHUI FOR RETURN TO BANK AFTER MARKING IT CANCELLED.

'END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: • WIROGUE 1 ETA LEOP 2 DEC.. HAS LETTER OF CREDIT FOR 12,000 SWISS

FRANCS.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER

THAN ISSUING OFFICE iS PROHIBITED

---

## Page 4

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Oprional)

INTERNAL

-SE ON!Y

CON DENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

REQUEST NO:

REQUEST DATE:

& SEGRET

FROM:

ESTENSION

RID/Files

G C 52

TO:

lOfica dorgnoron, Dian simbor. and

buitd.ng)

RID/ARO/RCU

DATE

Marito

OTMARDIO:

OFFICER'S

iNITIALS

DATE

29 coul 41

aMMiNiS (Number poch comment lo shos tom uno

otan.

non o lira across columa attor soch commoni

BULKY

tipicede fell

material

RECORDS

797 J66 A0.

C4- 142

05A 13.

2.

13.

14.

15:

FORM

3-32

RID/F1les

G C 52

610 STORIENE E SECRET

(0P..24)

CONFIDENTIAL

FILE IN 201-233477

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 5

14-00000

3277

771%

•APERTURE BARD RIPEGDUCTIOYS

підИрени

"SCABI.

EGO, EGF.EGS

radosi Carrid

422

sandi dire coled sitni...

"sinan la July 15ó2.

підо1.

siv face

ran 2 epir 1019 naturine

Frasent Audraao:a..

':.2

nes beer 1a le procgation of e Us service in benise, arer aice saly bacia

axay, proo i sonlit tourlot

Scup and Ilielra son jist

Avers: 23.0

поп

1962, Stars cade

a-alleation

for.ro.

U:3.

'"js t.9

9I:

£:e=1

2.9

trariad for !'a

an 19. July

217270 014 MY 195 20 203 C

tracagi

"SANLER3 dealicou to oldes sore 820c1?le liés5-a:1:=

Illatit to res: Berlino

15

"io nould appreciato al tosaation ca a42a evasato io scio as

valà as copiad of day Laiareãe: 10a reporta dileh taro Lcen 1od' ri 51a00 ris

arrirai si Cherursel.

Coolea ce the day separe dio deira 1i

judich f/ Irrsall

Jud! 1th G. 5r

Frusterian 75-

1á.:

SUW-2,043

2

CaSO

2

Zö5 1:17

2 308

crisibiri

P÷2187

.i. ES EOPA

10" Do m

rados outt.

AFERTURE CARO REPRONHCTINL

HQ COPY

DISPATCH

Box 5

Fain!

+6-466096764 9-23

• 5.8:7.9.

GESP

---

## Page 6

SECRET

CO DECUMENT EXTRACT!

THE FOLLOWIAG INFORMATION CENCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201

DOSSTER HÄS BEEN

EXTRÄCTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.

PERSONS PERFORMING MANE TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT

THE DOCU

MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL

INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED

FRON IP/FILES.

LIZISCHWILLI, FUERSIT

201-0233477

SEX M

DOB 02 MAY 19

POB USSR, TIFLIS

201-0233477

MUNI -05728

06 APR 66

& H GERMANY;

KOELN.

AKA SANDERS, GEORG FRANK

BND SECURITY TRACE REQUEST

SUBJ IN CONTACT W/BNO STAFFER

WAS ZIZISCHHILLI, FUERST

DATE 12 JUN. 75

CORR CARD

04823438

WIROGUE/I

+01-13331839

S/ 211 3y

SEGRET

EZ IMPDET CL BY 054979

---

## Page 7

14-00000

nora Dres Duo 101:539427

B.

піо.

Q10 B

ic.

COPIES

/A SECRET

MIT NOTIFICO

REPRODUCTION PROMIBIYED

50Oм

LAUNICH

ACTIGA

EE6

IẠF.O

OAD COPY

ADVANCE

COPY

Dinuro ioreo ruero

HILL, VR, CI/OPS,

FI/INT Z, RI/AN.

PeCT

UMIT

HATCHED

56C051 8612432

45

L--(

BONN INFO DIR CITE MUNI 5728

БАР166 09 1195

CATIDE UJVAULT

201-23.047

CATIDE REQUESIS SECURITY TRACES ON FUERST ZIZISCHUILLI, AXA

GEORG FRANK SANDERS, BORN 2 MAY 19 IN TAELIS. USSR, RESIDING

LIKOELN, WHO IN CONTACI WITH CALIDE STAFFERO FEOM STATEMENTS MEDE

BY SUES CATIDE BELIEVES HE KUEARK EMPLOYED. PIS ADVISE,

NO MUNI TRACES SUB.I.

3,

INDEX ZIZISCHWILL!

MICROFILMED

MIT 1 : 1966

DOC. MICRO SER.

CFN:

5723 FUERS: LIZISCHWILLI AKA GEORG FRANK SANDERS 2 MAI '

MITLIS SER KIELN KUBARN PLS NO MUI

SECRET

711-2334777

---

## Page 8

SECRET

(Een filled in,

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AMD CROSS REFERENCE.

OF DOCUMENT

•DOCUMENT. IDENTiFICATION

RI FILE NO.

33 a 1:5

S. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC.

• SYMBOL NO.

1. 2 K=

181-3173

•SOURCE

iN. 22897) 8 Apr. 6

CRYPTONYM!

: 0F.1ufo

S. EVALUATION

CATIDE /UIVAULT

DISSEMIMATED IN

1P. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

TRANSFERRID TO.

RI FILE NO.

PERTINEN

NFORMATION

Ref: Mine: 5728(11-91195)

Silject if was Hared Agent Ciepread

Case WIROGUE.: I dipped in then pricite on

8 Quire. 1964

20123347}

• FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

8 57 867 use eas

SECRET

17-18)

---

## Page 9

14-00000

CATIDE CABEZONE WIROGUE

CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

201-233477

SEGRET

Parful lad

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI: FILE NO.

32W

• DISPATCH CO SOURCE DOC.

5

SYMBOL. No.

BONN-2534 (IN 92176)

7. SOURCE

CAr"TOgYN 8.

DATE OF

•IAFO.

FONTE PROCESSED:

19: OISSEMINATED

•DATE

DOCUMENT. DISPOSITION

1S: TRANSTERRED TO

PI-FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

25

DATE

7-April 66

EVALUATION

REF: MUNI-5728 (IN 91195)

RE REF WIROGUE FÖRMER CABEZONE DISPOSAL. CASE. CAVATA

PREVIOUSLY INFORMED OUR INTEREST IN SUBJECT HOWEVER BACKGROUND

NEVER PASSED TO GERMANS.

2. DEFER FRAN RESPONSE TO CATIDE. RECOMMENT WE

ADMIT

FORMER INTEREST IN SUBJECT BÜT ADVISE CATIDE WE HAVE NO CURRENT

INTEREST IN HIM AND RECOMMENT THEY KEEP HIM. AT ARMS LENGTH.

FILE THIS FORM IN. FILE NO.

867

USE

SECRET

17-861

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

CATIDE UJ VAULT

CROSS REFERRED TO THIS KIYE

201-233477

•SECRET

(men filled, In)

DECIMENT TRANSEFE AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

32W

5

DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC:

SYMBOL NO.

MUNI -5728

"(IN-91195)

T. SOURCE CRYP.TOMMO.

DATE OF INFO.

25

•DATE PROCESSED

10: DISSEMIMATED IN.

11: DATE

DOCIMENT DISPOSITION

13.

TRANSFERRED TO

FILE MO.

-PERTINENT INFORMATION

7

DATE.

6 April 66

EVALUATION

1..

CATIDE REQUESTS SECURITY TRACES ON FUERST ZIZISCHWILLI,

AKA GEORG FRANK SANDERS, BORN 2 MAY 19 IN TIFLIS, USSR, RESiDING

KOELN, WHO IN CONTACT WITH CATIDE STAFFER. FROM STATENENTS MADE

BY SUBJ CATIDE BELIEVES HE KUBARK EMPLOYED. PLS ADVISE.

2. NO MUNI TRACES SUBJ.

3. INDEX ZIZISCHWILLI.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

- gi

867

SECRET

---

## Page 11

14-00000

CLASSIFY TO PIES 83. 361-23:34774

Pit wooler:

BACH C

orst90y Osis:

пом

ECtO

SIFIED MESSAGE

3

SECRET

'ERSON/UAIT NOTIFIED

BANAL

TOTAL COPIES

PEPI-CUCTION.

ANCE COPY

IMI

O RID COPY

•ECRET 101632Z

FRAN INFO CIR GINY CUTE BONN 2062

CABEZONE HARVARD WIROGUE.

CAVATA REPORTS VIROGUE LOST HIS JOS 2S JAN 66 EITHER FOR:

LOAFING OR CARELESSNESS. HE AND HIS EMPLOYER AGREED Of THE

SÉPARATION.

HIS PRESENT EMPLOYMENT IS UNKNOWN TO. CAVATA.

•SECRET

CEN 2007 CAVAJA WIROGUE 25 G6 CAVATA

ET

SECRET

1O MAR 66. 72218

911-233477

---

## Page 12

14-00000

CLIEL, CÜB/STAUSINTE

JGUATICITINOGUE/ITIREAÍILSÀ OS OTINIOL LECUAÉDIE - HIBCOUE}

EITERENCE:

B.

DIE 12710.

18.H7s

19js

LEOP SA62,

X7

DIE

a3.y

1982

1170:.

195%

DIS 1252O,

34 kay 1947

FOrVIICES BRTOUILS ATE LÙI GGINAL UCCUREURE CI FIRCOUEI

Ala 10 day 1952 a0 liElcaleu in releronces...

Thors cocursts nere

eurod D'er to. tue underidgare by ab/lrgal suctici rto

bacastoppit Eclseauste le 1OT

stautet.

tor your

QUIZ A CODI UI SLE DESTIIRA DUSLEUIRS LIE NEES BELLiBIÚ LO GUT

11100.

APPEOVEN:

Haurist

T562:46

Віс клує 1ом

DIATTIDULIONI

betrie:s.

Ab.

#:/0 5881

211

E0TA-18973

5 JsZU3T} 1804

---

## Page 13

DISPATCH

8-B-C-R-B-T

PROCESSING

MIan: +4E 19248196

entef of sace, sao Paulo

Calef of station, Rio de Janeiro

Caser of Station, Leopold ille

Chiles, Africs Dirleton

SUBJECT

OparatIonil/ 10189/WIROGUES

ACTION PITTS MIERENES

see Balon

HAPA 4890, dated 12 Octobor 1960

C ma min

HE 19S 0459

TAN IS 16599166

BEr GS: 43-43

1. This 13 to adrise you that sübjeit of refercace las been ¿ransferred

to the Artican Dirlaion and boen designed the cryptosit VIGROCÚs/l.

The

Istter 1e procently la Leopolduiile and all correspondasee received through

Jour coconnodation address 1a to bo pouched 20 COS, Loopoldville.

2: WIROHa/1 vas Initructed to send only unregletered lettero and to

Instruct bla correspondenta to do the sars.

CHARLES R. BOISEAS

PAUL. B. LEIGHIN

/ Distribution:

оід. & І - сов,

830 Paulo

1 - cOs,

Rio de Janeiro

1 - C08, Leopolduillo

i - RI

12022

H5/H

RIE/22:

E11: 1:1

MID/

RI0/75

10D/51

53

USE POT-OUS FOITION

"CAOSS FEFERENCE 1O

is COP!

22 Dec 1960

DATE LISUAICHED

9i6 28

SPATCH SYMECK AND MUMEER

B3V-312-25/2

MAOUARTERS FILE NUMBER

201-233477

201-233477

AF/W/2

OFFICE SYNGDi

...:

8-B-C-R-B-T+

For tail t3tden

ORIGINATIIG

D. Niesciur

63 Y

COORDINATE

¡ EAI..

8224

DAlE

CAPIIRS NAME

A/CAF/W

C/AF

Die 21/6

Faran Talles

Dir 21|60

niceilin

230:60

Husban

BEC 18 15 02H, t

RELEASING

OFFICE SANITO!

19E9 S 59N1:0

C/ WH

11/2.

(89)

DISPATCH

---

## Page 14

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Loopoldrille

PaX 75510

8-E-C-R-B-T

RYBAT

brand-re

119.10 1if! 1

2012

per 668 42-43

SUEJICI

Ch10r, MP1C8 DIPlea

OperatIons L/WIROCUE/1

MON NOURIU ROARINES

Beo Belov

A.

ACL:-192,

dated 14 Hovenber 1960

B.

IBOP, 0478, dated 17 December 190

C. DIR-17181, dsted 12. December 1960

1.

A'dispatch bad been prepared outining the varlous adelalotrative

and operational details perttuent to tho VIRoGis project. Bocelpt of ro-

ference B negated its value and ve preparod this one le its stoad.

suffice

it to day that all steps outlined la reference A were accompliahed and be

vag dispatched with the ipecific Initructlond out lined in peragraph 2 or

reference C.

2. DurIng: VLROGUE/1!6 asociation vith the underalened, the subject os

• vehicle sas falsed by bin.

"le stated be needed one to seccaplian his wro

sion. It vas susgested to hin that under the present elrcumstances in tbe

Congo 1t vould not be vise to consider such a purchare int1l he has discus-

sod it fully vith you and received your concurrence.

vehicle after receiving your approval,

then he vould bave to do 1t Iros bls

own funde and not use funda nade ayailabla to him to establish. ble cover

business. Obviouly be has violated the suggestiono.

3.

WhILe HIROGDE/1 usB 1n the employment of REDJOOD, there vas a

communestion channel set up between hin and bis fandly.

This tas an ar

rangement vith a letter drop in sao paulo.

He would urite a letter, post

date it, and gave it opened to the Case Officer who vould pouch it to the

COB, SO FaULlO fOr Dailing.

Letters to WIROGUR/1 vould come to a post office

box in Sao Paulo where it would be serviced by ALIASElER-2 and pouched to the

Case Officer.

He leave it to your dlscretion, as to whether of not you vish

to continue this typo of armangevent..

Honetheless, uader separate cover,

attachant A 1s a lotter for WROtuE/l ubich was received through this chan-

nel.

4. I an cura that HIROGUE/l vill undoubtedly vant you to set up a

sInd lar arrangement through Germady for him so that be may coumunicate ulti

a Penale acquaintance of his In PAPRIME. le are not adverse to the idea of

his having such a channel, but caly on the condition you are able to censure

inte dishitres

CROSS REFENE:CE TO

21 Dec 1960 12. :"

15-21CH SYMBOL AND GLE

5G-f-433=429

ACIW-206

MEADDJAHTERS ARE NUVGES

168-233477

201-233977

ROUTING

INITIA

OFFICE

AF/W/2

OFIGRETRNG

D. Niesciur

win.

A/CAF/W

nAit

due 22

Lati

BEY

COOROIHIIG

Simmi Bite

Edward O. Welles

8284

Be 18 15 02 IN. 21

A At 51.60

C/AF:,

' 53. USE NEVIOUS EDITION REPACESCIENCIDO FREIMAY AL USEO

140)

RELEASING

BrOnSOn

Tweedy

DISPATCH

---

## Page 15

14-00000

CONTINUATION.OF

DISPATCH

S-I-C-R-8-I

•RYBAT

.11

DISOR! ON JINDOL AND :5.

ACIЫ-206

the lettere. Agala va leava it to your discretioa..

S. Sepainte Cover sttachnent 8 catains a stertlo copy of tha YRO.

CHARLES R. ROISTADE

PAUL S. LETGETON

Attachment :

A - Letter for HIROGUE/I:

B - Projort Ortilie for VIADUE iSS

Diotribution:

018: 82- Leopoldreli

1 = AF/W/1

CLASSIFICATION

'ORM

0-37 53.

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

REPLACES FORNS

01.20. 91.28A

AND 51.20

WHICH ARE OSSOLETE

4C CONTINUED

-Der cuit 43-43

DAGE NO.

2 08 2

---

## Page 16

14-00000

DISPATCH

PROCESSING

SECRET

Color of Statios, Loopolazlo

peT ta 43-+3

SARCIO.6OS 195E1:)

DO ING UIDE MINORE

MEACGRAITIOS DEST

• ABSTRAL!

i Missile

Chios, Antica Divislon

suBc Oporational

C HOCROGDE/1

ACIMRIQUINED FETERENCES

DIR 08732 (OUT 86554)

B. LEOP 0225 (IN 36750)

1.

Iho plans end doveloprent of the VIROGUS project have reached a point

thoroby a summation of the irogress made and the plans for the ratire is in

order.

"At thie writing it ls anticipated that WIROGUB/l will bo on the

Loopoldiillo sons on the first of Docerber.

HIRocuz/1 had origlnally been recrulted in Buropo for a REDSOX operation.

Hò vas flon to FBFRIMS "black" and undervent an extensivi traintig progran.

nils inoluded survival, anall arus and other sindlar typo in traling.

After a

Fear of such training the project falled to mierlallse, an a result subjoc vas

preparing for resettlemnt in South America, To AT/Division took triterest 1

WIROGUs/1 and after an assesensat docided that vith his pecullet background,

talosta and goneral makeup he conid effectivoly be utilised along tho lines

¿stod In referenco A, On 21 Ootober 1960 to case was transferred officially to

:tho Africa Division.

• that date to the present, overy effort has bean mado to paycho

logically orient WIROGUE/l for this assigamait and to prepare him oporationally

for 1ts fulf1llment.

To Insure the security of the operation, prevent any

Identification kith ODYONE and/or KUBARk, and to preclude any unexpectod

uncovery of WIROGUE/l'e past uhich vould associato aim vita his pra-nubiri life,

a number of baslo steps vera taken. Those veres

a.

WIROGUE/1 undervent plastio surgery, inica changed the shape of

his nose:

b. A toupoo had been mde for bis constant uno. This and tho

plastic surgery have altered him sufficiently to obviato any

rocogaltion.

Distributions

2-Leopoldid 1lo

ROUT LIG

INITIAL

219/201

Cit

E:9/21

DIstribution:

1 - AF/Wes./2

1 - C/AF/West

DATE TYPED

DATE DISFAICHED

5 CROSS REFERENCE TO 3 - P3

11, NoV: 1960:

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

MOtion

CLASSIICATIC

-RYBAT

ACIW-192

MEADQUARTERS FILE AUMBER

201-833477

201-233677

SECRET

OFFICE

AF/west/2

OFFICER.

ORIGINATING

Daniel Niesciur

COORDINATING

EXT

8284

OFFICE STIADOL

.C/AF/d

DATE

POLItE HAM

Lester C. Houck

Elibrid

TORM 53

C/AR

USE PREVIOUS EDITION PAPACISORM 610 MEN MAY EE USE SM CE

..

103 1.2

RELEASING

DRICERS SIGNATURE

1-6-60 Bronon Tweedy

A Fulo

DISPATCH

---

## Page 17

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRST

L VOLL-AND AC

ACLÁ -192

Documentalian progerod iith accomunying cover story

to show that WifiGuryl 1s en Austrian and who his never had ODYOKE

connectlons, not erer been in FBHIM. (See soperato cover

strechuent A).

do It la planned et this tiso to talo HInOcUB/l "olick" to Germasy.

Thero ho will be net by the undersigned, given his lustrian documentation,

catact inetructions and lettar of credit, stripped of eny ISININE clothing

ar personal effects, ind dispatctod. He la to proceed to leopoldillo ou

his own and upon arriväl sake contact. The cover assigiment for sübject is

tencorarily left opas, although to has boen told to 100k intó the prospecta

of onening a photo or federal regalt chop. He has actually done photographio

vark but the decision on this ve will lenve to your on the spot judgment. The

letter of credit for three thousend dollers le to be used to finance this

venture. There will also be's resarve of one thousand dollars in a Swiso

account abould expenses necessitate a greater outlay.

Dais boney vill constl-

tuto an son-interest bearing, operational loan which

must be repaid by WIROGUB/1

Dras profita over a perlod of years. All other profits aftar the loan 1a paid

"5. A word ahout the manner of min witi whom we are dealing. He 1s a

mall, arergotle Individual, who has displaved throudness, ouning, ingonutty

and laventiveness.

He has a peculiar turn of mind which lonis Itself remarka-

bly to nofarious and extra-legal, activitles.

ixcitenant and Intrigue are

portant factors In his Ilfe, ho relishes 1t and as a rosult nay bo à little

dolloite to handle.: HIP.OGUS/1 I1ke3 ordor and alear cut chains of commone.

He addres the Prussian apcroach and an a result will trke ardors even if be

asy disupree. It la Importent to him to have the trust and confidenco of his

crisa officer.

If in his on nird he feels assured of tila and la confident

of the professional KUTUSS typo competence of the 00, ho will rociprocnto in

dad. Ho is indeod avare of the procepts of right and rong, but 1f he is

glvan an asslesent which may be morally wrong in the eyea of the vorld, but

nocossary because hia esse officer ardered him to carry it out, then It 1a

right and he will dutifully undertake appropriato action for 1'a execution

without pangs of conscience. In a bord, ho cin rationalise all actiona.

One

Last thought which way be useful. Best romulta will probably be gotten 11,

when given an assignment, he be peraitted to acouplish 1t lu kis own way.

Thö lstter le connected with his ides of trust and confidenos.

PRE

CHARLES R. ROISTADE

(PAUL S. LSICH701

Attachment A (under saparato cover)

109: 530

1001

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

9l.4..91.204 2N0 01.-1

AMICH ARE DeSOLETE.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DAGE NO.

_CONTINUEO

---

## Page 18

14-00000

SEONE?

SiSPARATE COVER ATPACTNAITA TO ACLU-192

An sustrian passport, birta certificate and drivers license haw

bosa preparod for levance contalning following blographia datas

Hanes

POB 8.

Salsbur Ba

Austila

23 July 1921

Pathora Damei Trans RETHER

Mothero names Mariania Deo NIKLITZ

Occupation:

Engineer

Marital statuss

staplo.

Heights 1 nator 70 centariolars

Wolights

58 1110'g

Hairs Brown

Diotinguishing parkas

tips of forefinger and thumb

right hand alaaing.

Identloal fingers loft band scarred.

2.

Docuncate: will refloct travel anly 1n Europo, uith so Indioation of

PaPRIME tenuro.

Sade 7160

5011-733477

---

## Page 19

14-00000

TO

INFO

SISPATCH

Chict, AF VIA Chief, EE

FFETSECREI

DiSPAICH SILBOL ANO AD.

EGOA -18888

HEADQUALIERS FILE NO..

32W-120-012/01

Chief. WH

FROM

por ESs 43:13

Chief of Station, Germany

SUBJECT

RYBAT # IROGUE

Final Resettlement of WIROGUE

1CTIDY REQUINES

XX

12. December 1962

RE: "A3:3' - (CHECK "X' ONE)

MARKED FÖR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED.

BY QUALIFIED HO.

DESK ONLY

REFERENCE(S)

WIROGUE has received

political recognition from the West German

government and is fully

documented in

the name of Georg

Frank Sanders.

This was accomplished with the cooperation of ODIBEX On

the basis of

fabricated story stating that Subject is a Georgian who defected from

East Berlin on 14 July 1962 while with a tourist group. It was necessary

to acquire

political recognition for Subject because this was the only

sure means to backstop.him if and when he applies

for immigration to

South America.

A Fremdenpass would not withstand the investigation

required by immigration authorities.

2. All the South American Consulates in West Germany were contacted

assistance of CAMANTILLA in an

attempt to collect information

which would enable HARVARD to select the most likely country to which:

Subject could immigrate based on his personal preference, opportunities for

emigrants, inmigration requirements, etc. Columbia, Chile or Peru offer

the best possibility.

3, The next step will be for Subjert to apply to the appropriate

Consulate and begin his processing.

Prior to having Subject take this

step HARVARD will require Headquarters guidance

and thinking regarding the

following:

a .

Subject as a prospective emigrant will have

to furnish proof

of employment or proof

of financial solvency.

Subject's

West. German documentation indicates that he is an engineer.

This does not mean that he is a diplomaed engineer but rather

a master mechanic. . This is borne out by the details of his

falsified life history and in fact by Subject's actual skills

in electrical and mechanical fields.

HARVARD feels

Subject can satisfy any South American Consulate that he is

experienced enough in electrical and mechanical fields to be

of value to the economy of the South American country of his

choice. Once Subject is admitted to South America, HARVARD

has no doubt that he can find employment if he desires it.

The ideal solution, however:

would be for Subject to have

firm offer of employment prior to his immigration.

can arrange this,

HARVARD feels that Subject's immigration

could be practically assured.

Subject could seek employment

through the German language newspaper in Santiago, Chile but

HARVARD feels that no South American firm would take the

chance of hiring him sight unseen unless he were a highly

qualified specialist.

b.

536

If proof of employment cannot be provided, proof of solvency

is the next requirement.

Only one of the

South American

countries has stated what it considers to be the minimum proof

of solvency:

The prospective emigrant must show that he has

the funds to subsist for two jears at the rate of. $125.00 per

HARVARD feels that to deposit $3,000 to Subject's

account would be a grave mistake.

HARVARD has no doubt hal

Subject is capable of taking the money and departing for parts

unless there were sufficient inducements awaiting him

in South Anerica.

HARVARD could probably arrange:.

for a letter

attesting to the

fact that Subject has S3, 000 being held|for

Subject could have been working for ODIBEX as a cogsul-

tant since his defection.

The $3,000 would be bonuses and

201-553477

HAAY CATSS

- IPAGE NO:

ENOUS EDITION.

REFLATES FORMS

51-26. 51-292 350 91-29

WHICH ARE OSSOLETE.

(X CONTINUED

Mr D 4443

-:Q COPY

---

## Page 20

CONTRUAiION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATE

SECRET

Capita.

anarates Stared 212 3.

EGOA- 1888g

HARVARD has not considered processing Subject for immigration

through a bona fide refugee organization in order not to involve Subject

with

the United States

Escapee Program and to

keep from making a refugee

organization a party

to fraud with.the possibility of embarrassing com-

piications

immigration does not come off properly.

through a refugee organization would mean additional paper work and

additional

fe: the present wolid indicate

immigration avenue should not be considered except as a last resort.

When filling out his application forms Subject will have to.

provide employment and residence

addresses consistent with the dates when

he was supposedly living and working in the Georgian S.S.R. His wartime

service will have to be covered also.

HARVARD feels that this

information can be acquired through the facilities of SR/6 when needed.

HARVARD is of the opinion that Subject has committed himself to

gọing to South Arerica partly because he will do anything which will pro-

long his association with KUBARK and partly because he is hoping to

realize some personal or financial profit from the exercise.

HARVARD has

followed the theme that Headquarters deisre is to help Subject and that it

can best be

done by. completely legalizing him.

Political recognition is

the first step but we desire further that he 'be helped to immigrate and.

after 5 years acquire citizenship.... Subject has asked HARVARD if he would

receive financial help during the transition period in South America. He

was told that we could only guarantee his plane

fare, that Headquarters

would decide how much and what kind of additional help he would receive

Subject rejects the idea of staying in Germany except as a last

possible that because of his irritation with his

inactivity

Subject may simply request his German documentation and leave HARVARD'S

custody.

Subject has been in HARVARD's hands since 22 May 1962 and has

been costing us 100 to 150 DM per week, plus many hours of case officei

Requust earliest Headquarters advice per para 3 above.

Carl T. Cadill

CARL T. UPDILI

APPROVED:

Distribution:

2 - C/AF

2

- C/EE

2 - CAWH

HYN

10.57

(40)

53c

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

REFLACES FOR11S

•e. 1.19

51.29

liNiCH diE GOGOLETE.

DEC 19 15 02 64,61

5419%6

LACE ONLU

TST 63:1 43-43

"CONTINUIO

---

## Page 21

UNIT

EXT

•DATE :

TO

FROM:

CONF:

INFO :

TO

D. NIESCIUR

AP/Wj2

8284

19 Decenber. 1960

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-B-T

536

LEOPOLIVILILE

DIRECTOR

•RE FllliS (elock one):

No ES Rpoara Valso. Deztroy.

C/AF 3

RI SiO ULiA CODY Ns IndIEaIra

Braaea copy. fied as indiessed

RS Incestas

(CHOCK GIX):

COP, C/C1, C/F1 2, S/C 2 Merkoa

aze requir

Bisnaturo: .

P. Cilmia

LBOP

INFO

RYBAT WIROGUS

R5: LBOP 0478 (11 18739)*

OUT54652

CITE DIR

26-2334)>

FOUVING

1 9 Dac E0

20

21z

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIURMTY

834

OUT 54652

1181

718

COPY

ABSTRACT

1H0EX Sit

ING

9DCNaL ADI"

INITS

613

FORSs

13

89

201-233477

(35)

---

## Page 22

UPS:T

EXT

DATE

TO

FROM:

CONF:

INFO :

10

D. MIESCTUR

AF/W/2

8284

19 December 1960

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-S-C-R-B-T

ROUTING

536

19 DECEO 20

213

ENRLILIS

DIRECTOR

coe, 8/C1, c/FI 2, S/ DES.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT54652

PRIORITY

88X OUT 54652

INFO

CITE DIR

LDOP

17181

RYBAT WIROGUE

:17181

RE: LBOP 0478 (IN 18739)*

" PER ACLS

149:

A VIROGUS/I CONTRACT CALIS FOR:

A. FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS PER MONTE BEGINNIAC CUTS NOT. TO BB: PAID

IN FIRLD: TOUR DISCRSTIGE TO PAY IN DOLLARS. HE HOT PAID FOR NOV PRIOR

wr

TO DISPATCH. OBTAIN: RÉCEIPTS AND CHARGE PROJECT.

B. THRISS TSOUSAND DOLLA: QUARTERS ALLOHANES PER ANNUM, NON ACCOUN-

TABLS.

C. FOUR THOUSAND DOLLAR OPS LOAN TO SET UP COVER BUSHESS TO BE

REPAID FROM PROFTTS. ALSO MUST ACCOUNT FOR ONE THOUSAND TEN DOLLAR

TRAVEL ADVANCE SCRIVED.

2. INSTRUCIIONS WERS TO MAXB CONTACT AND POLLON GUTSMAN'S INSTRUCTIONS

IMPLICITLY. ALSO REPORT ACCURAIRIY ALL CONTACIS OR POTESTIAL AGENTS AND NOT

MAKE ANY APPROACHES OR COMMITMENTS WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL.

3. SHARE GUTEMAN'S CONCERE AND RECOMMEND TELL HIROGUE HE ON PROBATION

AND MUST TOE THE MARX OR ELSE RECALI, AND IRRAINATION.

POLIT OFT IF NEESSARY

HE LIVING UNDER FALSE DOCUMENTS.

ABSTRACT |

BAD

OXI PISSSAGE

RELEASING

COORCINARING DIFICERS

88G-4-B-22

... ..!....

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER-THAN:THE ISSUING OFFICE iS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

for CEN 42-43

201-233477

---

## Page 23

ORIG

UNIT.:

EXT

DATE ::

•TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO :

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-B-C-R-B-T

POUTING

13223 2

PASTE THO COPIEUR

1 6515:652

1O

•iNFO

per CSN 43-43

CITE DIR

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT 54652

17181

17181

*DESK COCENT: Reference RiBAT

C/A?.

ta.-

120

Sawad Wiles

BUWARO D. 157,5%

COOPDINATING

A/ CAF/W

AUTNENTICATINO OFFICES

S-B-C-R B-T

REPRODÚCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

-

---

## Page 24

DATE

:0

FROM

• ACTION,

INFO

165

22 0E6 60

DIRECTOR

LEOMOLOVILLE

CASH 2201

6800

{E4/23341

DATE:

CGP, C/PS, 6/01: 6/F1

RE FlIng (rock one):

No CS Arcuid Vaile. Destroy.

86s the lia copy de indiraiad

Bended at dird de sidlenied

si=naluto:

jointe

PRICITY

IN 20926

PRITY DIR CITE LESP 2512

PY SAT VIROSIE

ROUTING

RID/AN

i"IS

TNITTAL

1-13

FID/VI

DESTROY

ABSTRACT

FATER

22 DE0960

135)

---

## Page 25

DATE

TO

FROM

JACTION,

INFO

ils

22 CặC 60

DIRECTOR

LEOPOLDVILLE

C/AF 3

COP, C/PG, C/Ci, C/FI 2, S/C

CLASSIFIEU MESSAGE

SECRET

RESTING

DEC 22 i-33Z EO

PRIORITY

IN 20986

PRITY DIR CITE LEOP 0512

RYBAT WIROGUE

REF DIR 17181 / Cut 54652) *

1. PER LEOP 8478,01 ROOTER STATES TOLD HE TO REQUEST THREE

THOUSAND DOLLARS QUARTERS ALLOWANCE IN LUMP SUM ON ARRIVAL,

DOES ¿PORTION GARBLED, VILL FADS PAY ALLOWANCE IN LUMP SUM OR MONTHLY.

ADVISE.

HIROGUE/L ARGUES HE NEEDS LUIP

SUM PAYMENT. TO PURCHASE

NEEDED HOUSEHOLD EFFECTS, AS MELL AS PAY RENT.

20.

ACLS 149 NOT YET RECEIVED.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: •CONCERNED WIROGLE/I CONTRACT.

PHAT

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHISITED..

791-233477

Cozy No.

---

## Page 26

14.00000

CLASSITED PARERA!

437-2332222

DATE.., DHAY E1

10.

• DIRECTOR

FROM , FRÄNKFURT.

ACTION i C/AT 3

wro con, c/cr, c/ce 3o s/ca

RE Fillie (chick oria):

So'CS Rarord V'aluo: Destroy.

R$' ale lhie copy ns losatostod

Aranch roriy Biad ei indleried

RE lodering

sipalito:

1O

CIR AFOR

RTMA1. WIRONSE 21BET

itio

FRAN

iN 41a?9

Cie

PROT

ROUTING

i RID/AN

RID/YIS

RID/PS

RID/FT

iTTAT.

13

DESTHOY

ASTRUTE

¡MATERI

ros"

1389

201-2334779

---

## Page 27

153

DATE

; 1 MAY 61

TO

*DIRECTOR

FROM & FRANKFURT

ACTION, C/AF 3

INFO , CUP, C/CI, C/EE 3, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-1

3 01462

MAY : 14272 61

ROUTINE

IN 44329

TO

FRANCY COU 43-43

DIR. LEOP

INFO

RYBAT WIROUGE ZIBET

•RE FROB 9126 (IN 37367)*

PLEASE REPLY PARA 3 REF.

CITE FROB 9T9T

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *WOULO APPRECIATE MORE DETAILS ON REQUEST FOR RECRUITMENT OF SELECTE.

CONGO JOB APPLICANTS.

Lazarsaltu

pEr CSN 43-43

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Cip; No:

---

## Page 28

*.297

DATE

, 23 SEP 61

TO . :DIRECTOR

FROM & LEOPOLDYILLE

ACTION A C/AF 3

• 23

Xsldig

INFO • COP, C/CI, C/TL 2, C/TSD 2, S/6 2x

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECREI

na zana dor

du do tucào lac-i

ia?.

*: td 2s

cif si iétanicó

: s: aocis-iss

3.úcin

27051257

BUNJ

per CSM 43-43

133497÷

ROUTING

SEP 23

LL ÁOUTINE

IN 34165

15437 61

DIR CITE. LEOP 2098

RY BAT HIROGUE

REF: A:

DIR 07961(@ut .89123).

LEO 2088 UN: 336437+*

ROUTING

L RED LAM

PIMIS

-RID/ES

RID/FI

113.

PASTROY

FSSTRACT - WBEX

23 S5/05 /9461

7200

08: 43-43

359

206-733477

---

## Page 29

• 29%

DATE

, 23. SEP 61

TO

¿ DIRECTOR

2-1.e4pg

FROM & LEOPOLOVILLE

ACTION i C/AF 3

SC:

INFO

A COP, C/CI, C/F1.2, C/TSD. 2, S/S 2 FC:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

tain tired

11110rus

ROUTING

5

.6

..SEP 23- 1543Z 61

ROUTINE

IN: 34165

DIR CITE LEOP 2098

RY BAT VIROGUE

LASSITZED

par GSN 43-43

REF A

DIR 07901 (Out 89123)6

В LEOP 2888 UN: 3.3643)**

1o

SALVACK MET WIROGUE C> WHEN HE CROSSED RIVER ON SPECIAL FERRY

FROM BRAZ EVENING 22 SEPT.

VIROGUE FREINDLY THOUGH CONSIDERS MANY'

PEPRIME ACTIONS SENSELSS. & CARRYING KUBARK PROVIDED FALSE DOCUMENT-

ATION AND ON PRODUCING OLD MINISTRY DEFENSE PASS WAS LET INTO CONGO AFTER

LONG AUMENT WITH GOC IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS.

• 2. REGRET HAS DID NOT PICK UP VIROGUE'S FALSE PASSPORT.. MAIN REASON

FOR HIS RECALL WAS FEAR WILDCAT 5 WOULD TRACE KIM AND DISCOVER NO SUCH

PERSON EXISTED. ONLY CHANGE NOW IS THAT KUBARK' NO LONGER HAS OBLIGATION

TO HIM.

3.

A STATES NE TOLD NOS ENO READ

RETURNING CONGO SO SHOULD BE NO

SECRET

211.7.33477

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 30

14-00110

iSSA

SECHET

34165

_ PAGE 2.

SURPRISE.

HAS SOME LETTERS HE VISHES SALVACK FORWARD TO HIS HOS

CONTACT "DAN".

SAID HE WAS GOING TO CALL EITHER GUTHMAN OR SALVACK

IMMEDIATELY TO LET THEM KNOW ME IN LEOP. SWORE HE WOULD NEVER DO

ANYTHING AGAINST PBPRIME AND IF HE COULD BE OF ANY HELP ANY TIME VAS

WILLING. REALIZED FULLY HE ON HIS OWN IN CONGO AND KUBARK, UNDER NO

OBLIGATION TO HIM. SAYS HE INTENDS. REMAIN CONGO AND MAKE LIVING HERE:

4.

" WILL PHONE SALVACK IN FEW DAYS.

END OF MESSAGE

CS: COMMENT: * STATED WIROGUE BEING TERMINATED AND REQUIRED TO LEAVE PBPRIME.

**RE ZAPPLEEY_MEETING WITH WIROGUE BRAZ.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

=1779F==

---

## Page 31

0216.

UNET:

DATE :

E ROSEAS

AR/5

5÷57

3 AUGUST 1962

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

... No.=

Nil-23342251

3-d1

ROUTING

ifö?

1653

FROLA;

DIRECTOR

CONFI C/AF 3

Nascess

INFO ,

ADOP, G/C1, G/F1.2, CDC, C/Tsb2, */ce

15 83 45435,

TO:

FRAN

INFÖ •

ISOP (e

AXHAT BARVARD FECHS HEROGUE

198 Ao FRAS 1857 (III 33838)

Bo WR 15340: (0U5 91968)

OTE DiR

34us-9 21 347

SIG CEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINI

OUT62136

276.79

ROUTINC

ABSTRACTI - THOEX

1389

RE 00A49

JANGE i.

201-233477

---

## Page 32

14-00000

ORIGI DE HISSETUN

UNIT: A8/4/2

EXT • 3965

637

1Ã60

637

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

$-$-C-R-B-T

RID

то 1 x0g

FROM, DIRECTOR

3 Aclui

CONFe

C/AF 3

INFO: COP, COP, C/C1, C/F1 C/TSD C/TSD C/EE C/EE S/C S/C2

Sua 43-43

911-2334375

ROUTING

5

DEFERRED

416 23

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

FR0:

ARET VIROCUS ARBAS

INfO

FRAS LEOP

WILAS

94793199

CITE DIR

11912

H91₴

ROUTING - MINITIAL

1:13

ABSTRACT! PIEX

Dile, a Nor 1960

per ax 16-43

CS COM

---

## Page 33

ROUTiNER 1

MESSAGE FORM

ORIG.

UNIT •

EXT •

DATE,

10.

30. 12bright.

i/s

- 503₴

13

"en.

BRUSSELS

• INDEX

• NO INDEX

O FILE IN ES FILE NO.

201- 233472

3

FROM

DIRECTOR

COP. AFT

TAURFURT

Gerisi

SO:W

I DESTROY

•I RETURN TO BRANCH

B-FRE BID

No CAC, FI, FA|D4 CI, e/OPS, EESE, WEL, VR

FLe

Icci-..

700

CLEONE

HARVARD. #IROGUS

REE RAN 0130 (11 8 22140)

R

DRUS

INTO FRAN CHENY BONN

CITE DIN

IF BRUS APPROACHED BY RIGALES,

KUBARS CONECTIO:!. & REVIEY OF W/I KUBARK CARDER IDICATES COULD DO

LITTLE IF ANT DAMAGE IF HE REVEALED ACTIVITISS.. SUBJ TREHINATED 1952

AND KUSARK HAS NO FURTIDR INTEREST.

FOR BRUS: FELATINO DIR 5743.

ROUTING

301-

23L?

ABSTRACT X RELA

RID/AN

AND OF LESSICE

RID/MIS

DATE 19 NOr L4

RID/FI

1980068 22 062

SIG CEN

55345

R

•

P

12/2 Jor Stoin (in drast)

Tement Tele

RELIABINE

OFFICER

SHENOTHER!

rooM 1389a

SECRET

ashuded leon

anaprading and

тімістао

22/907 beigele

RESHENTICATIO

(391

---

## Page 34

ORIGI

UN? .

EXT .

DATE,

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

8-B-C-R-B-T

N7/M/1

Seco

16:10

10

: FROM, DIRECTOR

CONFI

RE Fing (chock one):

No CS Reicra l'alue. Desiroy.

R' dio trila copy as iscicaiod

Brangh cony lieg de padicaics

NE IncerinE ¡Chock aGeT:

0000

INFO .

C/AF. 3 *

COP, C/EE 3, 0/05 2, S/C nature:

TO

PRAH

INFO

ATROCES

FJDUST

13: 2E8 0872 (677 86559) AT

LEOP

3

0 411:233139*

ROUTING

6

DEFERRED

Nov 19

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

LUMEDIATE

INITIAR

94095

0194095

CITE DIR

12432

12432

24 50

ROUTING

Fores

1399

al is Nov 1260

+01-235477 139

---

## Page 35

670.

• ORIGI.

UNIT.

EXT •

•DATE "

AP/W/1

3056

6?0

16 Hovember 1950

FRANOUNT

FROM, DIRECTOR

•CONF

C/AF 3

INFO, TOP. C/EE 3. C/OS 2, S/ 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-B-C-R-3-g

02ZLD

TO

7 mo

ROUTING

DEFERRED

Now 18 23

24 60

ROUTINE

necromised SECT.

PRIORITY

INIMALS

OPERATIONAL

INITIAIS

IMMEDIATE

94095

R01 94095

FRAN

INFO

LEOP

CITE DiR

RYBAT

12432

12432

BB: DIA Q8T82 (OUT 86554)1

TROGUS ATO RUSODA ESCORT MR. PAUL R. PINS ARPARTISA ANTIESSES AIR PORCE

BASE AT 1500 ARS 21 HOY VIA MATS AIRCRAFT ALAGER 423. ELA FRAN Z2 NOY AT 1540

ERS LOCAL THIS. PIS MESI.

KEND OF MESSAGE

CS. CCIMENT: *CONFIRMATION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR EJDUST NOT USED.

**STATEC WIROGLE WAS BEING GROOMED FOR DEEP COVER ASSIGIVENT LEOP LATE NOVEMBER.

EB/G

!.

C/RE/OPS

SINO OFFICER

COORDINATINO OFFICERS

BRONSON TWEEDY

C/AP

S-B-C-R-B-F

AUTHENTICATINO OPFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 36

ORIGI

UNIT :

D. HESICUR

AP/H/2

DATE,

3956

15 Forember 1960

10 • FROB

533

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

8-E-C-R-B-I

638

• FROM: DIRECTOR

file RID

CONG. C/AF 3

6: ilmight

INFO: PARP, LEGI, C/F| 2, C/TSD 2, C/EE 3, S/C 2

PROB

REP:: DUR

11912

(80F

INFO: TRAM LEOP

JM1593109

511-2334991

ROUTING

4

5

DEFERRED

Hey 15ố

77

22°50

ROUTINE

RECIO CHOLE SEGT. '

INITLALS

PRIORITY

INITINS

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

84098610

CITE DIR

11913

17913

ROUTI

TATANT N

113

CS COPY

ASSTRACI 11

INDEY.

150/001960

201-233477

---

## Page 37

roots.

GLASSIFIED HESSAGE

SECREY CE

PERSON/ UNIT NOTICI

DVANCE.

321142cong

prepos

REFRODUCILON PROMIRITED

FRANKIT

ACTION

EEG

TIME

т0: UniT

Taco

_VR,

AF 4 T5P6

iS E CR. E. 52715582

27 K0 64N3 1 538

BRUS INFO DIR GANY BONN CITE FRAN 348S

CABEZONE HARVARD WIROSUE.

REF: A. •DI9 65345

B. FRAN S129 (IN' 2216-7)

1. WISH POINT OUT SINCE SITHER CATIDE NO? CAVATA AWARE

SUES REFS" TRUE BACKGROUND OR PAST KUSARK CONNECTIONS, REVELATION

THIS TO THEM BY NIGALES COULD PROVE EMAARZASSINS AND POSSIELY

HARY MKTOPAZ ODISEX CHANEL FOR OBTAINING POLITICAL REGOGNITIONS

FROM FEDREP.

2. IN VIEW ABOVE REQUEST ERUS, IN EVENT APPROACHED, ADVISE

FRAN PRIOR ANSWERING NIGALES SO THAT COORDINATED REPLY MAY BE

FORMULATED.

SEGRET

2334/77

SECRET

701-233477

---

## Page 38

SECRET

n222eud4 (ch)

PERSCH/UNIT NOTIFIED

ACTOF KAUKEURT

ADVAACE COPY

UNIT

VR. FILE: WEG CL CLOPS,

ahead.

Vela-tre

•EÜME I. T.1217097

HIP. INTO BRUS GUNY BONN CITE FRAN DI29

CABEZONE HARVARD WINOT GUE

43 - $84 57448 (NOT SENT BRUSS

B. FRAN 0130€

1O: FRAL ADVISED BY ODIBEX THAT LOCAL POLICE AUTHURITIES

RECEIVED ROUTINE INTERPOL. QUERY RE WIROGUE (BRUS! SEE KEF B

FOR IDEND WHO ARRESTED 6 NOV AND CURRENTLY IN BRUS JAIL ON

CHARGE ATTEMPTED ROBBERY. ROUTINE REPLY SENT BY LOCAL.

AUIHCRITIES CONFIRMING THAT REFERENCED TRAVEL DOCUMENT WAS

ASSIGNED TO PERSON BY NAME OF WIROGUE AND THAT THEY HAD NO

JNTO RE ANY PRIOR POLICE RECORD.

• ? WHILE NO FURTHER QUERY ANTICIPATED, ODIBEX IN-

PCS:LION,. SHOULD QUESTIONS ARISE IN FUTURE RE SUBJ'S AIS

CENNECTION OR TRUE BACKGROUND, HAVE LOCAL AUTHORITIES DENY

A: KNOWLEDGE OF BACKGKOUND OTHER THAN THAT WHICH HE

FICIDED FOR POLITICAL RECOGNITION PURPOSES. ONLY ADMIITED.

AIS CONNECTION WOULD BE ROUTINE CURSORY PROCESSING THROUGH

CAMP KING.

SHERET

*NO RECORD IN CABLE SEC

SECRET

1230

1211196%

Econo

REPROSUCTION PROHIBITED

TIME

911-233487

13 Hou 641x22167

---

## Page 39

14-00000

C7$6/0 SECRET

ROUTING

15!

161.

12120655

то.

• DIRECTOR

FROM " FRANKFURT

ACTION

INFO

EES IR FILE

ACTION CHANGE

(STATION & NUMBER

FRAN: 0124.

IN

TIN NUMBER

22/677

•C/S COMMENT: THE ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS

BEEN TRANSFERRED

FROM

EE

(DIVISION)

TO

AF

(DIVISION)

BY

I BARTLET ON NO EAT 25 26

IN COORDINATION WITH: IT. ALER#T

5362

DIVISION, AND EXTENSIONT

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING. OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

GrOUP

lood pain com

Copy No.

---

## Page 40

14-00000

C7 Mao SECRET

ROUNNG

1. 5.

161

TO

r. DIRECTOR

FROM

FRANKFURT

ACTION, VEE 7

INTO BEY IR PILE

ACTION CHANGE

FRAN

• 'OBO

(STATION Bi NUMBER)

- .

IN

22404

TIN NUMBER)

C/S COMMENT: THE ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS

BEEN TRANSFERRED

FROM

EE

(DIVISION)

TO

"BY

:

IN COORDINATION WITH:

(DIVISION)

I- BARTLET

(NANE, OLVESION; ANO EXTENSION). 2526

2207

(NAME, DIVISION, ANO EXTENSION)

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

---

## Page 41

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

99:AL CERIES

27 SECRET

PEASON/UNIT NOTIPICO

7ouo

REPAODUCTION PRi

CZO1000T A/C

ACTICA

FRA: FLIRT

TArO

ADVANCE COPY

UNIT

ITINE

Doria Drueso

SECRET IE1709Z

BRUS INFO DIR CMNY BONN CITE FRAN 0130

CABEZONE HARVARD WIROGUE

PE FRAN 8129 10 32161

SUSJ REF CIDEND IS FORMER REDSOX AGENI CANDIDATE

AND AFRICAN DIV AGENT WHO RESETTLED BY HARVARD JUNE 64.

PRIOR KUBARK RECRUIIMENT

HE SERVED PRISON TERM IN FRANCE

FOR BANK ROBBERY, DURING THO YEAR RESETTLEHENT PERLOD IN

TREN SUBJ GIVE! NEW NAME AND

NEW LIFE STORY. ON BASIS THIS

MANE AND FABRICATED STORY, SUSS GRANIED RECOGNITION BY

FEDREP. IN EARLY OCT SUBJ RECONTACIED HARVARD AND MADE

BLACKMAIN ATTEMPT IN ORDER GET BACK ON PAYROLL.

2. IT POSSIBLE SUBJ MAY REVEAL TRUE BACKGROUND TO

BELGIAN AUTHORITIES. SHOULD BRUS BE. APPROACHED THIS MATTER.

FRAN DEFERS DIR FOR GUIDANCE.

STORET

CFH

13 Hou 6411i 22 1 40

SECRET

---

## Page 42

rasher to the no

trif B1D.

015180.0

→ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

21 SECRET

NUr:: 161

TOTAL. COP1E9

REPRODUCTISI PROMIBITED

FROM

FRARINFURT

ACTION

INTO

ADVANCE CARY

O Dion .

VR. FILE COC, WEG, CI, CIORS, FI, FLO4, ME-HEE M

R

SECRET 1C17O9Z

BRUS INFO DIR GMNY BONN CITE FRAN 0130

Y CABEZONE HARVARD WIROGUE

13 Now 6416221 40

PE FRAN 8129 IN 22%67

10 SUBU REF (IDEN) IS FORMER REDSOX AGENT CANDIDATE

AND AFRICAN DIV. AGENT WHO RESETTLED BY HARVARD JUNE 64.

PRIOR KUBARK RECRUIIMENT HE SERVED PRISON TERM IN FRANCE

R FOR BANK ROBBERY. DURING TWO YEAR RESETTLEMENI PERLOD IN

C FRAN SUBJ GIVEN NEW LAME AND NEW LIFE STORY. ON BASIS THIS

P NAME AND FABRICATED STORY, SUBJ GRANIED RECOGNITION BY

FEDREP. IN EARLY OCI SUBJ RECONTACIED HARVARD AND MADE

BLACKMAIN ATTEMPT IN ORDER GET BACK ON PAYROLL.

2, II POSSIBLE SUBJ. MAY REVEAL TRUE BACKGROUND TO

EE! STAN AUTHORITIES. SHOULD BRUS BE APPROACHED THIS PATTER.

INITTA

FRAN DEFERS DIA FOR GUIDANCE.

ROUTING

R

ISEGREI

RID/AN

O CFN

C

•P.

R

P

Y

SECRET

/≤ 1

÷÷7

roeu 1 389

PrITIONS

RI COPY

RI

COPY

1351

---

## Page 43

14-00000

WDEr

ciassier to sat sio

SECRET

•

CEPACOLET IOO PEGHIBIREO

R

UOa

Y

ACTION-S GULLEINE

navest

KRILE GEE CO CLIP

1217692

RID/20

INTO BRUS GUNY BONK CITE

PRID/129

CABZZORE HARVARD WINOTS

110/25.

43:4554 57448 SNOT

SENT

BN022-BECPROS

& FRAN 0130R

•i: FRAI ADVISED BY ODIBEX THAT LOCAL POLICE ALTHUAITICS

RECEIVED ROUTINE INTERPOL QUERY RE WIROGUE (BRUS: SUE KEF Y

FOR EDEND WHO ARRESTED 6 NOV AND CURRENTLY IN BAUS JAIL ON

CHARGE ALTENPTED MOBBERY, MOUTING REPLY SENT BY LOCAL

AUTHORITSES CONFIMNING THAT REFERENCED TRAVEL DOCUMENT WAS

ASSIGHED TO PERSON BY MAME OF WIROGUE AND THAT THEY HAD NO

INTO RE ANY PRICR POLICE RECORD.

??.

WHILE NO FURTHER QUERY ANTICIPATED, ODIBEX IN

POSTON, SHOULD QUESTIONS ARISE IN FUTURE RE SUBJ'S AIS

CCRDACITON DE TRUE BACKGROUND, HAVE LOCAL AUTHORITIES DENY

ANT KNOWLEDGE OF BACKGROUND OTHER THAN THAT WHICH HE

ProfOr FO POLITICAL RECCGMITION PURPOSES. ONLY ADMIITED

AIC CONNECTICN WOULD BE ROUTINE CURSORY PROCESSING THROUGH

?!Kp

ET

*10

RECORD

IN

SECRET

SABLE

SEC

1230

12 11141,44.

FRAN 0129

1380a GIN 22167

R

R

rom 1 389

P910-04!

RI COPY LAR

RI COPY

---

## Page 44

DISPATCH

GRiSE 2à StamORa Paris

INTO.

FROM

SUBJECT

LETION RIGUIRED - REILRENCE

¿surats of informitian on Subjoct of 20liti

I MARKEO FEE INTERING

INO INDELINE REQUIRED

CALY QUALINES DISK

CAN JUDGE IN RAINO

MICROFILE

References:. A. PARI 6754, 6 October 196%

Bo. Dir 57445, 16 Octobor 1964

Iden was born in 1918, In Georgia, üSSR. sie enigtatod to Franco

sith his faily when he was three years old.

Fe was a clever, precocious

child during hits lycee education in France and was frequently disuissed by

school directors who did not apprectato his terperamental perforsance. Le

also attended several engineering colleges but apparently never graduated.

In 1939, he volunteered for the fronch foreisa Legion and was sent to lunisia.

The occupation of France in 1941 ended his filltary career. He was denobilized.

and returned to Paris.

?.

Subject claimed that he wanted to fight for France, but he did not

ilsh to join a colloctivo resistance orgardsation. - He decided to act on his

orm so he jolned a labor force being recruitei in Paris to go to Germandy.

For anhile he worked in a synthetic gasoline alant in Boclitz near Serlin.

Later he was employed as a driver for the 155.

During this tire, he began

his carcer ir. black marketing and docunent farging. He clained that he forged

[asses Into and out of Germany and did it to selp imprisoned Franch officers

to get back to france.

It is felt that the ulterior motives right still have

been lova of excitement and wish to make noney.

jie also clalzed that he did

not sori for the French Resistance, althougi it was possiblo and probably

that they gave him orders to fill.

He did mention working through intermediaries

ars cutouts, so its possible that ho did actually work with tie hesistance out

did not want to tell us.

Eventually Subject sas arrested by the Carnan regular

police for his activitles, and later brought to Berlin where be was interrogated

for several conths at cestaco leadquarters.

Fa ended up by spending time in

jails and concentration camps. He was Minally liverated by the U.S. Army.

after the thrill and axeltement of the war years was nassed, Subject

conlá not settle dom to a routine exastence.

So ho joined up with an

acquaintance sho he says convinced him of the necessity to make nore money.

They decided to comit robberies.

One was saccessiul. Unfortunately for

Subject, the other was not.

His friend was aprehended and confessed.

Subject

spent the next five years in various rather storious prisons in france.

"ROSS REFERENCE 1O

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NURSER

DATE

4 NOV B59-

29 October 1964

OFFY: -33334

CLASSIFICATIOS

SECRET

OffICE

HOSTINE

HOS FILE NÜMBER

201-233477 261-233177

ORIGINATING

eseiti128

Ek!.

COORDINATING

OFFICE SYMBCL

EFFICER'S NAME

OFFICE SYMBCI

DAlE

(8)

"g" 53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

RELEARNiG

OFFICER'S SIGN

Luck

DISPATCH

---

## Page 45

*CONTINUATION CS

DISPATCH

SECRET

OPF-4-32334

Ee sas then paraled to hig brother and vas iring near larscillos.

He attompies io es iiito busiross using sous s te Iriventions that

anhad eoseetriio and seilecoondone quei noa ie®

lls persoral1ty

a bisiness

partner tiii capital to invest in à cinemciztuple color reproduction

system that .sas patontod and earned decani Isiits for tha tuo of then.

Subjoct uas silll or perolo and lied to his cider drothoroe "celt.

rightoous iscälgance," however,

It was siyrly siter this that Subject

vas apnraiched by: a cenüer of KUBARK who bEs foiloninr up on subjoct

as an ops lead furndehsá by a couslingin PSPEt..

Subjce: mis favorably

assessed and nesoved blaci fras Franco baceure of travel tostrictions

inposed by lis paroli status.

4. Ise rest of Subject's career has been generally sumarized

In. MER

5p443:

te are also attaching à cogr es SEQA-21573 for infomation

on Subject's nost recent activitles.

Sab act bne boei dessrle d ar fel ad daringe ohe Lattes

observant,

shread, slis, and one sho relisnes intrigue and daring.

play a very lportant part in his charecter, le leamns quickly and.

cartles out ay.asslanent vithout regard fu danger.. His drawbackos,

as enumeratoc oy hia case offlcers, are thet se is headstrong,

Inpulsive and constantly noeds nou interess, bas an ego that leeds

on rocogratian and triumphs, a lou Irustratira point at umpredictablo

MLiCa H. SHANASYO

Kenneth N. PECKL"CPAUGH

Attachments:

{ cy BeGA 21573. 270/с 11

Idontity - u/s/c

Distribution:

0r1g. # 1 -00S/Fart w/atts 16/7t918/8i=

FORM

$30

140

USE PREVIOUS LEITTEN.

CLASSIFICÄTION

SECR-E-T

1-*-

CONTINUED

PAGE NO

—2

201-233171

---

## Page 46

4-00000

•TAl

n018. 26

CLASSIFLED MESSAGE

эт.

SECRET

RI

REPROCIETID CARMIDITTO

• FROU

PARIS

ACTIN

AVENGE COPY

TIME

Nel°

TO: UNIT

SECRET OOLTAIZ

DIR INFO FRAN GMNY

5ONV• CITE PARI 6754

CABEZONE HARVARD WIROGUS

REF FRAN 9367 (GU 84943)

CRYYTO

STATION HAS NO RECORD EGOA-21573 OR WIROGUE CRYPECCISIN& 8108

PLS ADVISE IDEN- AND

APPROPRIATE BACKGROUND.

NO INDEX.

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 47

14-00000

Ord: lo :loricit

UNIT : 45/5

EXT :

5032

DAIE: 13_October 1904

10

PARIS

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF, AF 7

MESSAGE FORM 34

RI

ROUTING

5

C INDEX

R FILE IN CS VILE NO. 202-3354:72

CERSArY

BOri

15.

TO

INTO,

CABEZONE KILVARD MIROGUE.:

REF

PRA: 9368 (IN 84943) *

ROUTTIE PARL LIST EONN

CITE DIR

I WIROQUE

TRYiNG

57448

STICK

3 KUBARK FOR MORE MONEY,

1. FOLLOING COLDENTS BASED O: REWARKS MADE BY WIROGUS'& PAST CO'S.

CONCENSUS EE DEINTOL IS THAT SUBJ COULD DO VERY LITTLE DANAGS, IF A'Y AT ALL,

IF JOTED OTISA SERVICE.

20 DURING PERIOD WEEN SUBJ UNDER SR DIV COLTROL, CO HAD PERSOIAL, DATLY

EXTENDED CONTACT ITH UTI. CO BELIEVES SUBJ HAS INMATS DESIRE WORK FOR INTEL

SERVICE AS IT COLSÓNAIT TITH PAST LIFE FULL OF DARING, ADVENTUROUS ACTS.

IDEA OF "LEGALIZED SFTING" APPEALS TO SUBJ AS IT PUTS HIM IN IFORTAT, UNIÇUE;

FROFESSIONAL CATEGORY. CO BELIEVED HE GENUINELY SINCERE IN BANTING TO DO SOMETHING

FOR KUDARK AS HE ENJOYED ROLE AS LOVER BOHELON ACTION AGENT. WHILE IT ELITIRELY

POSSIBLE SUEI TIIEATENING WORK FOR OTHER SERVICE AS BARGAINING TACTIC FOR

ADDITIO:AL, KUBARK FINDS, CO RECÄULS TAT MONEY NEVER HAS BEEN FRIARI END FOR

SUBT AS HE ALAYS FELT ENOUGH MONEY HOULD COME FRO: SOREPLACE TO SUSTAIN HIM

FROL: ONE VITURE TO ANOTIER. DOES NOT ESLIEVE THAT SUBJ EXPECTS TO 32 ACCEPTED

5Y FRONG? 30 NE KIOIS VERY NELL iE COULD DE DS FOR VIOLATING PAROLE.

HIS FRID: / ID PROBASILITI OF CENSURE AND RIDICULE PROFAMILY AND FRIGIDS IN

FRANCE CUD DISSUADE HIS IN EID. FROBABLE DOES ICT WANT MORE MONEY, BUT

RATIER NS: DOCUDETS AND IDENTITY IN SOLE THIRD COUNTRY SO THAT HE CA: RETURN

RELEASIN

OFFICER.

COORDIMATINO OrPICERI

SECRET

GROUPS

actudad fron

ilication

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

AUTHINTICATING

OPFICER

•i: Copy Na

i

CONTINUED

---

## Page 48

CRIG:

UNIT :

EXT

JATE

10

FROM:

CONS.

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

ROUTING

DINOSA

CJ.NO INDEX

O FIT IN CS FNE NO

DIRECTOR

PAGS 2

INFO

INFO,

• ON DIR

57448

LAD IN ACCELIN MID RSCOCIITION FRON FAMILY AND FRIENDS. HAS ALAYS HAD GREAT

DESIRE TO "SUPISE SVERYONE BACK HOSE VITT NEV DOCUMENTS, LEN IDENTITY, PLASTIC

SURGERY, ETC.

3. DURING SR DIV PHASE OF SUBJ CAREER, HE IN WASHINGION D. CO AREA

UNDORGOING TRAINING FOR S AESENTINEL-PROJECT. MEN ALL HIS HANDLORS BY ALIASES.

DUREIG TRAG CONDUCTSD IN SAPPHOUSE IN VIRGINTA, KNOW OPSRATING PRINCIPLES

AND HANDLED SCALE MOCK-UP OF ELINT GEAR TO BE USED AESENTINEL: HAD TRAINING

IN SISIC AND ADVANCED FIELDCRAFT, INCLUDING SUNIL ARMS, BASIC TRADDCRAFT TECHNIGUES

AND ERXI PRACTICES, FINESE RUSSIAN LANGUAGS, SOVIET INTERROGATION TECHNICUES,

HOG. OF KOS SORCER TROOFS, AESENTINEL OPS PLAN, AIR INFILIRATION-EXFILIRATION

TECHNICUES INCLUDING AIRCRAFT FAVORED FOR THIS. SUBJ ABSORBED SOVIET REALITIES,

BORDER TROOFS M.0. AND BASIC TRADECRAFT QUICKLY AND WITH GREAT APPLIED EX FLEXIBILITY.

4. DURING LIEOPOLOVILLE ELY PHASE, SUBJ KNOW VERY LITTLE RE STATION ACTIVITIES.

KNE COS AD THO CASE OSFICERS TRUE NWES. AVARE OF COS CONTACT WITH GENERAL

MOSUTU BECESE HE WORKRIC UIT CONCO LIR FORCS. SPENT NOST TEE THERS TRYING

DEVELO: CO TACTS.

SMER OR HE LIGHT HAVE DISCIATED WOULD BE OUTDATED BY NOT

DUS TO RAF DEY CHANGING EVENTS IN CONGO.

END OF jESSAGE

SE CEL

//3K/g2.R.

10/33

CAF/5.

SECRET

tos

oute

aradias

and

RIPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATINA

OFFICIA

Capy No.

---

## Page 49

KET

9 October 1964.

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

J. Albright, AF/5

1. Informal Character Assessment of WIROGUE

During the Period July59-Nov 1960

2. •Suggested Considerations for KIROGUE Resettlement

Phase

3. Damage Report Contribution

1.: The following observations and comments are intended to

represent an informal personality assessment and factors in consid-

eration of resettlement for AESPIC, now "IROGUE.. It is based on a

period of training and handling prior to anticipated dispatch--early

July59through late November 1960.

These thoughts are based on

personal daily extended contact as trainer/agent handler with Subject

as a member of prospective cross-border team for imblementation of

REDSON Operation. AESENTINEL.

One member was re-assessed opcrationally

unsuitable, which left a team of 2 agents:

both of which Undersigned

to handle.: It is: hoped that this assessment may be of

some benefit to the AF Desk Officer, who requested

it the day of this

It is intended that Subject's demonstrated suitability for

AESENTINEL,

infiltration-exfiltration operation into difficult

the Soviet Union, will serve as a mechanism rather than

an end in illustrating Subject's general abilities and limitations

for the task at hand.

has been made to present this

material in subject categories

considered operationally meaningful.

Quoted passages in Part I are Subjects own or the closest approx-

imation memory permits.

It is my considered opinion that the Subjectof this writing

has the highest personal and professional regard

for Undersigned. I

do also consider that, although thoughtful handling and self.

ness were prerequisite agent control factors during this case,

did not causevan uncomfortable amount of special handling problems.

The senior Project Officer was Mr. Perry Crookham, C/DOD/DOB during

the training and holding prior-to-dispatch phase of the operation.

3.

Subject Background and Chronological Association Factors

Doemed Operationally Significant

Subject is an approximatcly 49 ycar old eithnic Georgian

Georgian, French, German and English.

Subject emigrated to

the remains of his family during the pre-Lycee

father, a TBILISI University academician and intellect-

ual of some note

elected to stay in Soviet Georgia,

during which

period Soviet dominance

in the lest Caucasus was fairly well

solidified.

Subject considers that his fathers decision was made of

SSGREY

---

## Page 50

-?-

his own free hill but which nevertheless disappointed Sunject greatly,

as he greatli admired him,

despite the fact

that subject's fathers

decision was responsible for the suicide of his mother, whom

Subject

greatlo loved.

Undersigned believes that Subject's anguish in

memories of his parents has genuine.

Subject was a clever though.

precocious child during his Lycee education, and freouently was

dismissed bo school directors who did

not appreciate his temperamental

though erratically brilliant performance.

Subject, during this stage

of derelopment

to the

rules oprobably tried as hard as ever in his life to conform

which during that stage of French national

education

practices, would probably seem quite strict br American

middle school practices:

recocnition in imitation of his father.

Subject greatly desired academic/professional

These feelings were especially

frustrating hecause of his quick mind and seeming natural ability for

mechanical and electrical theory and principals.

I do not believe he

ever has learned to consider conventions of living anything more than

a tiresome game to be played when there is no alternátive..

subject's

quick mind, and early appreciation, recognition and adaptance of

much to ensure the reessary understanding of French culture

for noderate success in that country.

Subject who is an unusual

looking man even by French standards,

has no trouble in identifying

the under-privileged elements of French societ!.

Subicct is

temporally bald, hooked nose,

short, slender, bandy legged, wiry,

and of dark comolexion but possessed of a dry, caustic wit eager

laugh and contribute in the Caucasian spirit

whom he considers worthy of friendship.

of comarderie to those

friends cautiously, and has conciously established for himself

makes rcal

personality assessment criteria that would do justice to many success-

ful senior FI or CE C/O - agent handlers.

world war Il offered Subject the welcomed opportunity to

vould wistfull recount stories of his escapades during that period,

nossibatter really getting to know subject, seemed to be entirely

Subicot aumired the Germans as "worthy apponents"

particularly their efficiency and ability to act decisively whether the

problem be tactical or strategic.

An extended period of German

encarceration (until war's end) did nothing to alter his opinion.

Wars ena left Subject bored and unfulfilled.

The excitement and thrill

of "the game" vere gone and Subject's unsettled, numb contusion was

for quite another reason than most

of Europes milling thousands of

displaced and shattered families.

it lias not long before

Subject and a close friend from his black market days decided on a

daring daylight bank robbery in one of the suburban centers of France.

Subject contends he planned the robbery from start to finish,

needed only someone to help..

Subject and his accomplice carefully.

cased a bank, stole a heavy truck

and during the height of the business

day backed the truck full speed in reverse

through the large street

level plate glass window.

Subject said he hopped

out of the truck with

CE RET

---

## Page 51

j14-00000

- 3 .

an automatic weapon, while "the people were frozen solid", gathered

up

the moncy and was

away quickly.

Subject said the scheme

because his accomplice went to the cache-site to get some of the money

to

spend before it was

safe to do so.

His accomplice was apprehended

and in

time broke down

and implicated Subject.

Subject said

not bitter at his

betrayer, but rather professed a genuine admiration

for French interrogation techniques:

Subject served a

difficult

confinement of 5 years

Marseilles, as

i recall.

and was paroled to an older brother in

C. Subject said that he began at that point to appreciate the

futility of violent actions; while opposing the authority of society.

He therefore attempted to go into business using some of the inventions

that he had conceived during his confinement in prison. His winning

personality and

intense drive and self-confidence quickly gained him

business parther with capital

a cinematographic. color

reproduction system that was pattened

earned decent profits for the

venture.

Subject was still on parole and tied to his older brother

"self-righteous indulgence"', however.

It was shortly after

this that

Subject was approached by a member of the MIS who was following up on

Subject as an ops lead furnished by a cousin in the US who was a

moderately successful lawyer, and who had been long since recruited as

an agent spotter for cithnic Georgians.

Subject was favorably assessed

and

because of travel restrictions imposed

under his parole status.

removed back from Francebelieve that this opportunity rekindled

his old feelings

of exhilaration.and

opportunity to perform his deeds of deing for cu authority, sanctioned

by a national state,

in this case the AIS.

Do Here at last, he considered, was a secure source of backing

and support for his natural outlets. Subject always considered the

Agency

as sen crant business nartner

therefore a grateful

is lover echelon action agent. Subject now pably feels lime do agend partner.

a willing pupil, physically

active -- since the job

called for physical endurance - and looked

on self-denial and fatigue

recognition as a point of honor. Undersigned was never a poor

ithlete, however, was bested on numerous occasions at whatever the

field probdem.

Border Troops M.O.

and basic tradecraft auickly and with great applied flexibility.

F.

It was

during this period that Subject began to confide

regularly

and in depth to Undersigned.

Subiect would

often tell

Undersigned,

"Fred, you must believe me, I want to do something."

"I will do

do, only tell mc."

"You (meaning

the Agency) want me to kill somebody.

I believe Subject was genuinely

Okay! do de inway you say."

that this was neither an

attempt to impress his C/0 or a trust/assurance maneuver.

---

## Page 52

14-00000 -

- •4

G. When on indefinite hold was placed on MESENTINEL by

higher. Agency authority, one team member was re-oriented and placed

on conservation in a cover job.

Undersigned

ultimately conducted this

agent back to his Scandinavian home where resettlement. was achieved

with a minimum

of arrangements, however, Subicct was transferred to

AF Division for projccted operational use in central Africa. This,

.if memory serves, has

accomplished in late

1960.

4:

Personal Qualities and Motivation Factors of Possible

Operational Exploitability

A... Natural intelligence, resourcefully inventive

B. Mechánical ability, to include photography. aid gadgetry

C. A certain acumen and

shrewdness

D. Concious guile and a "clandestine mind"

E.

Physical stamina, and vitality to include extremely good

cycsight

F.

Probably capacity to withstand hostile interrogation and/or

physical stress-privation

C. A sincere exponent of "the end justifies the means":

Atheisn

I. A winning personality when nced be

J. Present and potential language ability

к.

Lack of racial prejudice

L. Fierce

loyalty to his C/O once respect and friendship are

established.

M.

Possible self-destruction rather than blow

the job in denied

area op.

N.

Good independent. action agent on short term aps.

0. Anti-Communist

P. Moderate

drinker

Q. Keen observer

and excellent memory for faces and names

R. Self-confidence to a fantastic degree

CECRET

---

## Page 53

391

-5.

5. Personal Qualities Considered Opcrationally Disadvantageous

A. Natually intelligende but headstrong

B. Physiognomy easily remembered i

C. A blind

spot in intuitive friendships, to possible include

trusted

female paramour

D.

Impulsiveness, and

nervous; energy that needs constant

new interesto outlets.

An opportunist

E.

Lack of noral convictions and basic values many of which are

divorced from reality.

F.

Ego that feeds on recognition and triumphs. (probable

inferiority complex)

G. Poor assessment of the value of money ("easy come, easy go")

H. Possible inclination to alter ops plan to conformiSubjects

appreciation of the situation, in field situation.

1. Probably prove to "fall in love"

maks agent turn overp.

difficult. This probays Clowwhich

which might

isadas

J.

Probably poor P/A--probably has little objective confidence

in subordinates

K. Low frustration point at unpredictäble times or occasions.

1.. Difficult to dispose of if he ever becomes disenchanted

6. WIROGUE Resettlement Considerations

A

AF/5 representative has requested comment from Undersigned

on NIROGUE'S

apparent reluctance at resettlement attempts in Frankfurt

a/M which

are underweigh at the present time,

I believe.

It is

indersigned's understanding that subjected has threated to work for

the French Service if resettlement negotiations do not proceed to

Subject's liking. Speculation has been that this is probably a bargain-

ing

tactic to gouge an appreciable amount of additional dollars in his

resettlement claim.

Undersigned considers this a quite valid

assumption, and entirely

attributable to Subject.

Subject probably

views this

threat as particularly critical in vier of the seeming

volitical/economic conflect with the French,

and appreciates by now

one of the differences between the AIS and the IS of a fascist and/or

totalitarian state.

:.21

---

## Page 54

1400000

SECRET

-6-

However, Undersigned nould like to suggest the following

interpretation for therer valle sa: be in

suggest that money,

end that suhject is striving for now, just

it never seemed

his primart concern

throughout his life.

believe that. Subject genuincly enjoys clandestine operations; at least,

his conception of clandestine operations.

Subject probably would

refer to dork. for the MlS or possiblr the li. German Service bccause

ne has a genuine tondness for the people and many aspects of the

Eulture of both countries.

The ices of legalized, or at least

internationally folerated, "Spying" offers the oppose ten that he is

legitimize,

and thereby rationalise,

subject's sai

protecting

his equity in an imporiant, unique, "professional"

category.:

C-Subject

always

if not, then enough would

way fron sozeplace: to sustain him from one venture o the next.

Subject feli that the acquisition of moner would be a br product of

his opportunist. schemes and technical inventions in pursuance of his

main goal-personal recognition for personal achievements and triumphs.

D. I believe Subject does not expect to be accepted in his

but rather to let our

i go and he next one each the do unrather a let our

an attenpt on his part.

Subject knows very well that he fas

riolated his parole and would be encarcerated on his return.

his pride and the probability of censure and ridicule of family and

friends in France would disuade hin in the final analysis.

E.

I have never

non

from him,

Subject is a most excellent chess player'i consider that

nor have I ever seen hin lose a

Subject has thought this line of action out thoroughly. It. is

apparent that he is willing to gamble his quit claim settlement on

something that I believe he has specifically in mind--possibly the

offer of nen documents and identity in some third country.

always had a great desire to "surprise" cveryone back home (i.c. Paris):

with ve dat sent he wants dennecessarily more dellars,

for the AlS to once again help hèm (as co-partner) to achieve his aim

of acclaim, success and recognition, possibly this time io family and

friends in

France.

Ido not believe that. Subiect could ever be physically

intimidated.

He lost half his front teeth to German interrogators

the other hali to french prison guards.

Additionally, he does

a defiant spirit that sometimes comes through as

sheer obstinacy to

If it is considerd worchwhile, I believe an attempt should

be made to locate a C/O locally who has handled him in the past.

C/o for whom subject has respect as a higher echelon and whom he

considers understands him.

suggest that this C/O interview Subiect

in an uncontrolled environment to determine what it is that Subject

- i

---

## Page 55

14-00000

= =

:257

?.

really wants.

• To bet of my recollection,

subiect thought highly

of Mont: Lovc (T),

the c/O that helned pitch him and whe broughi

him out Black from France.

Monty has to go to one of the German

Stations or bases the last tine I san him in late 1959.

8.

Damage Report Contribution

The following

constitutes Undersigned's contribution to a

damage report that may well be needed in view of subject's posture in

the matter at hand.

It covers only that time sequenteduring which

Undersigned actively handled Subject.

B.

This span constitutes:

carly July 59 - late Nov 1960 .

At that time Undersigned was a junior C/O on the

AESENTINEL Project which was to

be prepared and launched from the zI

by SR/DOB, a covert site op's

base in formerly in the District of

Columbia.

In early July of 59, Undersigned as "Fred" and

George Fill (SP. Staffer) as "Mr. George"

met Subiect and his teanmate

"rachs Tie group had dirport Dom seich thier sons ardler and

in Alaska, and consisted of:

Subject

"Little David" (A)

Gregg Ross (T)

Mr. Gregg (A)

"Al" (agent team mate) "Big Al" (A)

Bill Rohmer (T)

• Bill (A)

E. He drove immediately to a Safehouse in the Virginia

countryside and conducted training,

holding and orientations from

that site until the operatich was placed on

indefinite conservation

and ultimately cancelled becague of the Powers U-2 incident.

: Safehouse keepers were an elderlo married couple -

"Geof and Janie."

There were approximately 6 DOB OP vehicles exposed

to Subject.

During this holding period another C/O and

several agent

handlers were there

on

regular

occasions:

• Perry Crookham (T)

"Mr. Pat" (A)

Myron Toloczko (T)

"Ski" (A)

---

## Page 56

8

Ray Manchulak (T)

. Gordon Mothes (T)

"Ray" (A)

"Gordon" (A):

Joseph Betza (T)

"Joe" (A)

Col. Podwornyy (T)

"'Pod"

H.

Subject knew the operating principles and handled the

scale mock-up of

the ELINT gear to be used on AESENTINEL. Subject

was exposed to training in:

(1) Basic and Advanced Fielderaft, to include small arms.

(2)

Basic tradecraft techniques and practices

(3) Soviet Russian language training

(4)

Soviet interrogation techniques

(5) M.0. of KGB Border troops

(6)

AESENTINEL Ops. plan

(7)

Air infiltration-exfiltration techniques, to

include aircraft favored for this.

For further. information

or clarification please call.

Fred Kirkpatrick, extension 6587.

Fred Kirkpatrick

SR/O/PT

---

## Page 57

14-00000

SECRET

1 Princetoo

P/R15

ACTION

1:÷a

Shei cont

TO: UNIT

SECRET COITAIL

DIR ISO THAN GANY SONN CITE PAPI 6754

CABEZONE HARVARD WIROGUE

50

СРУРТО.

STATION HAS NO RECORD ESCARISIS OR MINOGUE CEYPSOCINGS 1 00

32

---

## Page 58

14-00000

ACTIEN

CLASSIFIEO HESSAGE

1

SECRET LES

PERSON UMIT NOTiCICO

AQUANGE CUPY

1180 1"1

AFT ALTAIN LA

SECRET 811+58Z

PRIORITY DIR INFO PARI GMNY BONN CITE FRAN 9367

CABEZONE HARVARD WIROGUE...

: пус 4943

U S

•RE EGOA @1573

HIROGUE CONTACTED HARVARD TO ADVISE HE CURRENTLY WITHOUT

JOB, MONEY, FRIENDS AND HOPE FOR FUTURE. SAYS HE HAS TRIED MARD

FIND AND RETAIN SUITABLE EMPOLYMENT BUT UNFITTED FOR ANYTHING

OTHER THAN INTEL WORK. SINCE PBPRIME UNABLE PROVIDE HIM FURTHER

ÄSSIGNMENT IN THIS FIELD HE PLANS PROCEED PARI AND OFFER SERVICES

TO FIS. STATED PURPOSE HIS CONTACT TO DETERMINE WHETHER THERE

ANY OBUECTIONS HIS SEEKING SUCH EMPLOMENT. *

= 2. HARVARD CO CONFIRMED THAT THERE NO POSSIBILITY OF

RENEWING HIS AIS ASSOCIATION. WIROGUE ALSO TOLD THAT; WHILE

WE UNABLE PREVENT HIM FROM TAKING FROPOSED ACTION, DOING SO

WOULD DE AT OWN RISK SINCE FRENCH AUTHORITIES WOULD PROBABLY

NOT ONLY DISBELIEVE HIS STORY OF PAST AIS CONNECTIONS, BUT -WOULD

TAKE ACTION AGAINST HIM FOR PAST CRIMINAL ACTIVITY, SUBJ

OJTWARDLY APPEARED TO DISCOUNT THESE WARNINGS.

D1/000

SECRET

---

## Page 59

'14-00000

- 147-=

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

'STRUCTIONS

1.

Fill in surt

PRIOR TO FILING

and forward

2. on back Detach back Hap

to RID

2 Destroy front cove: steri

signiticant action tade= or

unless is records

ing

preservation.

comments requir-

FROM:

MIDI AN

: r.:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

shown are not proper.

sort proper

document to RID-AN.

PHODEN FILE NO

TO: ALi ADDRESSEES

FILL iN SECTION I ON EACK. iF APPROPRIATE

COMMENIS

AF/5k

ner"

NO

7018

• DATE

GECEIVED

Zelo

OFFICERS

MITTers

•3.

L/ t

send the file

arcy

MICROFILMED

JUN 1 6 ISU4

DOC. MICRO. JER.

13./

1a.

15.

16.

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

OATE-MICABA LEO

6100

USE

PREVIOUS

EDIFIONS

AbSTRACT

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER IPRIMARY CODET

DOCUMENI DATE

201-233477

DOCUNENT NUMBER

EGOA

21573

SECRET

1101

---

## Page 60

DISPATCH

S.-F.-C-R-E-T

PROCESSING

ACTIN

MARRIS FUR INLEAING

Chief, AF

INTa

EE:_ WH; SR: KUPLUM

FROM

Chief, Coordination & Support Base,

Frankfurt

SUBJECY

WIROGUE

(Final Resettlement of WIROGUE C00 32412

ACTION REQUIRLO: RETERENCES

TEN: 981149-4454

CAn iUEOE 19500509-1°11

"AHSTEACE

mario.

il.

WIROGUE, former REDSOX agent candilate and African Division

agent has been quitclaimed and resettled on

the local economy

This @ispatch summarizes the WIROGUE case from May 1962 to March

1964.

Subject arrived in Frankfurt/Main from the Congo on 22 May

1962. KUBARK's reasons for establishing contact were

the need to relieve

dictated by

Subject of his KUBARK-supplied false Austrian

passport, the need to institute or suggest a

would encourage him to establish himself as

course of action

a contributing

member of society and, above all, prevent his return to the Congo.

Subject appeared to be primarily a resettlement problem,

therefore, Orme K. DARONNAIT was assigned

the Case Officer

responsibility.

4.

Since adequate documentation was

a primary consideration for

successful resettlement, Subject was briefed on the relative merits

of the types of FEDREP, documentation available. Although Headquarters

had recommended

a backStopped Fremdenpass,

subsequent discussions

between DARONNAT and MKTOPAZ FRAN representatives indicated a

Reiseausweis to be the

proper document for permanent resettlement.

With the cooperation of ODIBEX Camp King representatives basis

was interviewed and granted political recognition on the

Subject

of

a fabricated story in which he claimed to be a Georgian who defected

from East Berlin while with a tourist group.

The WIROGUE case suffered a temporary setback when in December

1962 the BUNDESVERFASSUNGSSCHUTZ (BFV),

the West German organization

responsible for the internal security of the FEDREP became interested

in Subject and requested all available information. HARVARD briefed

OCA Bonn that Subject was strictly a HARVARD agent resettlement case

whose name, lecognition interview story,

etc were complete

fabrications to insure his receiving political recognition and a

Reiseausweis. OCA advised the BFV that Subject was of continuing AIS

interest and HARVARD resumed its resettlement efforts.2u- 233u77

(Continuad) CS,

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

4 June 64

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

D324-16.17

EGOA-21 573

"HE-DQUARTERS FILE RUMDER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

Backled let 1:

2/32W-120-012/01

---

## Page 61

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T

EGO: -21573

6. By summer 1963 dotailed South American immigration data

This disclosed that Subject's language

deficiencies, background, knowledge of the Soviet Union, and work

history were insufficient to guarantee his smooth processing

the INTERGOVERNMENTAL COMMITTEE FOR EUROPEAS MIGRATION

(ICEM).: Our investigation also pointed up the fact that until

Subject was provided witl: a detailed life history containing the

infornetion required by prospective employers and/or

immigration

he was not

in a position to be resettled anywhere,

let alone South America.

as a result, HARVARD's plans

• Subject for immigration had to be cancelled, at least temporarily.

7..:A CABEZONE Stage I C.O, was given

the task of preparing a

story containing the factual information

needed for the filling

out of job applications, to stand

up under detailed interviews and,

if. South American immigration ever took

to satisfy immigration

requirements.

This legend was given to ODIBEX Camp King representa-

tives who prepared a new political recognition interview story,

arranged for the removal of copies of the old story from the various

FEDREP files and replaced them with the new.

For the first time since Subject had arrived in HARVARD'S

custody the way was clear for a final resettlement.

Subject's

Reiseausweis was renewed and he was quitclaimed and advised to

work and establish himself in Germany.

He was told that nothing

more could be done for him and that immigration to South America

at anytime in the future would be without KUBARK assistance.

9.

HARVARD has done everything to insure Subject a successful

future:free

from problems resulting from his

"black" association

with KUBARK.

Therefore, there is good reason to believe that

KUBARK will

not have to

become involved with any of Subject's

future problems.

It is also unlikely he will attempt to coerce

KUBARK with threats to reveal all.

With his criminal background

he is aware that he can be brought to the attention of the French

authorities.

He also believes that KUBARK's position in the FEDREP

is such that

we have nothing to.fear from any action on his part..

At the time of this writing Subject has a position as

research

and development engineer with a Munich firm.

receives DM 1500 per month, has an expense account and is to receive

a percentage of all profits realized from the sale of any devices

he develops.

He expects to move to Munich permanently about the

end of May or June 1964.

HARVARD nas arranged

with CSB Data Processing Branch to

publish a nofoin drop notice under Subject's documented name so

that any attempt to immigrate to any country will bring him to the

attention of KUBAFK and appropriate action can be taken.

It is suggested that Headquarters arrange to apprise

HARVARD of any

regarding

Subject under his documented

name or any of the names listed in Attachment C.

ORME K. DARONNAT

оди

19.5'530

180;

APPROVED:

MEDERICK LUNGE

Attachments:

A :

Recognition Interview Story

B.

Termination Agreement

C.. Iden List

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - AF, w/atts (USC)

1

W/O

atts

W/.O

atts

atts

-w/-o-at-ts

(USC)

(USC)

(USC)

CLASSIFICATION

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

31.29. 51:3A AND 51.09

WHiCH ARE OBSOLETE

S-E-C-R-E-T

Cệ 14

2.??:.

??

PAGE NO

2 of 2

---

## Page 62

8028. Oberuradl/Too, den 21.0.1962

In Boflolcung dinos solmodochera ersobalas dor angoblioho

auslinai.che Flicntling.

SEPARATE COVER

DISPATCH NO.

DATED

JUNE

ATTACHMENT A TO

EGOA-21573

1964

MICROFILMED

JUN 16.1904

DOC: MiCRO SER.

geb. sm 25. Jull, 1913 1n I1f11o/Georgion Uds R.,

rohnhart in Oberuraol/in., Hohesarnotr, 185,

Rorufs ülektroingonlour,

sta toancoho1 ungaklirt, Iro UdisR,

Elterni

a'non S. und Maila god. Fantanholl,

bolie verstorben,

und erklirt nio folgte

• Ich well, wonhalb ich houte hior bofragt werden soll. lola

Dolnetschor hit uit auch seanut, dis leh Gle Toarlait anceben

noll, du nonot alo Oofabr bantoht, dal maine Anerko nung.

als aunlinülocher pluchtling coführdet sat.

Ich wurde aln Altentes kind antner ältein goboron. Ich hatto

noon elnen Brudor, dor aber kura naoh dor Ündurd veritorben

1ot.

Main Vater mur von Herul Ingenieur, int aber beralad im Jahra

1924 verstorbon. Ich aalbrt kann sich an moinen Vrter nions

mohr erinnen. Moine lautter 1n8 1m Jnbro 1931 na. olnoni Herzo

sollan verstorben. sig

nar sulotst karolererin in elnos:

BchuhroparaturQo:obMft. in I1fl10.

Meine Schulnelt begain 1m Inhre 1927, "o ich an moiney Unburtso

ort bla 1934 din dortigo Drutsche schule besuchte. Fa mar

nino 3chulo, in dor nach arute hei desichtopunkten unterriohted

murdo. H1r bollonen win zu damaliger zeit der deutochen Ipracho

und hatten nur vonige "tunden, wo ülr 1n der georglochen

Sprache untorrichtot marcon.

In Juhre 1934 kas 1ch, nachl n, ich durch olne Prilfung die Be

fühlgung nuchandoon austo, sun Blattro-Technikum in I1fl1s, den

auch ein Intornat ni gonohloauon unr. Die Iinansiollen 1ttol

fur die:e Soh:le brauonto 1oh niont aufbringon, condnrn hatto

81n

stinondlun

An dieser Inhranstals studlorte 1ch vier inaro Phyalk, Mathonati

Gecohiohte, Englleon und Elteratur.

CS. COPY

7:3.

20233479

---

## Page 63

Maden dor algentlio on Prohaunbiliung crhiolten a15 auch eine

voralistirloche suabildung, in der torperechule alt oingo

schloaces. Har. Hinrend dos Somerfersen miron die Etudenten

ao1o8 aur einer solchono boroblisigt, un so an der Borgung

der lanto altauhelion.

•In Fruhjahr 1938 hatte loh anine Absohlußprüfung. Ich bestand

dobe und erhialt mein Diplos.

schon von dor Inhranatalt vurden uno Arteltapllitso zugomioson.

Eir multen una su dionen lueak auf an:1 Jabre vorpfllanton.

Ich wurde sagon, daß danit eino geniase R orsahlung dor una

gewarton Goldor xus Ereoko des Studiung gelolatot merion 802180.

Ich solbat kan eur la ohinen-Traktoron-station, die apiter

In Reparatur echnluche-"tatlon undons ne murde. Hoin Arbolso

plats bofund eich in saohakaja.

la 28. jugunt 1941 wurde Ich zar russischen 15n00 eingesogen.

Ich jus nnon Bntu. Es handolto asch un eino ¿lakointoit, alo

In der Onljanek1j1 Knaerne ante godracht mar. Nach seinor

syr120n911801 Orundausbaldung wurdo 1ch nlo Kraftfahror ausges

bildoto

dus Sohlul mainor Dionetselt ver 10h Jahror des Divialonokounago

doure, Oberetloutnant OuROLHIDos.

In inbro 1944 wurdo 1oh Bus Foldnobel belordert. Me d100os

Dienatirad habo loh auch 1946 dio Arzo verlanson. Bo Mi

Im Septemior. Ion kahrto wiodor an meinon fruhoren Arbolto

plats surlox, don loh blo su notnor fluchs Innohatte.

Mun eu melnen Pruchtrrundens

Trotslen loh in einon konnunlatlochen land geboron und ersogen

morion wut, begann Ich dooh schon frühseltig zu varatalon, daß

sur dio Finselperaon koino personlicho Prolholt bentand.

La war ait auch klar, das peraunlichor Aufotior nicht von

des Inlont und der Knohtsohaffenhelt eines Mongoben abhing,

sondorn von den ludaaß dur politischon Bothtigung. Ich erkannte

die kornunfatlachen ligon, da dlo Mirkllchkol8 do verschieden von

der offigiollon Propaganda war. Eihrand und naoh dea XrlOgo SPaS 1

1oh Monnohen, dio ventllohe Windor bouucht hatten und 1ch vas

In der Inço, Bruchotuoke der Wahrholt lder den Untercoriod

In den Lobensarion aus dienen irsahlungen abzulelten, obrohl

allo di0ne dorionse sohr rosalobtig vorgebracht murdon.

- 3∞

---

## Page 64

Ich hörte schliellier auch roch neatliohe sondor, un aich, su

orientieron. Eino feindliche sinatellung sua RoaTundenuo

wurde 1nier attrier und de merda sur -1ch laior cohnlorigosi

sich alt meinon Hedongarten eu kontrollieron und dioden

Ostulian nicht orsan quadruck su verlolhen.

In Juni 1962 kas conlleßlion der Sichorhaltadionat zu 18

an seinon Mrocitoplats. In dor anschlielendon Vornehring

murdo lah boechuluigt, ein langlührlçoo Mitglied olner

goorrischen alúcratondagruppo zu soin und roginungofoindo

Hohe Außerungen getan su haben. Obrohl ich dolohe Xularungon

bo1 versoniedenen Velekonholsen genacht hatte und dishalo

sohulale la sinno dea lotsteron Solle der Anschuldigungon

war, konato 1oh fuhlon, dal dor sicherholtndlenat niont

genüsond Inforrationen bonal. Ich verneinte de:halb allo

Maschuldigungen.

Ruch lan on Yerhör wirde 10h In moine Roh ung entineson und

erhiol8 alo Auflaço, moinen johnalte nicht su verlao: on..

nuserien nurde nir erklärt, daß lch später von s10h0rhe188

alonut noch hören riirde. Alle dose Unotando lieben In n1r

den Godankon der Flucht konsen. Ich lobte fortan Imnos 1a

dor 1nz08, von sichorholtoulenst rerhaftet su warden. duon

•se1fllcher liberlogung setate loh na 25.6.6a, alno drol Tago

naon den Zerhör, noise Fluchtabsichten in die Tas an.

Elo en jeden Iaño so vorliod 1oh augh su geron: tor Bolt,

goron 07.00 Uhr, arine lohnung. Anetatt abor sur Arboite-

platz su gehen, verlies loh die Stadt in Richtung damtrodia.

Don Zus getraute 1ch mir nich8 su berutson, will loh dor

Molnung par, daß dieser libermcht aird. Nach eina 2 oder 3

Filoneter wurde lah auf dor Indatrasea von einen Lartragen

nufgenorran, der nich nion suatredia brichto. Dort boat1og

1ch dain uoh110211ch den Zug naoh Baku, anr gegon 14.00 Uhr

anken. Ich verstookto nich in der Polgezald dis sur Dunkelhold.

Ich sing an soe entlnng. Nuch afwa 2 X1loaeter Fußn rnch

vernichtete ich geinen Paz (Perionaiauanele.) und verETuD

notne taridung. Ich außte niallon von diesón Oft vorsuchen,

schrlanend türkischou dabist su artalabon. Ba mag unglaublio

Klingon, aber ich non ara dia gegon 04.00 Thr trih. An lanâ

grkozen, wußte ich nloht, no loh aich befand. In elner

Nutte fand seà aber Gegenatlade, aue dene: lah annebten austo,

alch noch Innerhalb des conjetischen foritoriuso su bafinden.

---

## Page 65

...

Ich vorsteotto nloh aieder und martata bia sug•Arbond.

Ich ging sohlledllch uleder ino an:oot und sornann nur..

der Kunto entlnng. Ich aulte nich rloder die ginao Maot

ab, ohro dad loh genau mußte, no lon aloh borand. In Morgen

frauen sinr Ich nieder an lind. Ich hlelt aich unichot in

einor Hohle vorotooki. In L.ulo der nachfolgonien stundes 888

trat lor einon Knibon von etra 11 ouer 12 Jalron. Yon lai

erführ ich, die 1ch alon aur turkisohon Grbiet, In dor

Nude von denal-Parcha botando. Da loà Immer noch nicht

Stohnrholt hatte, verstekto 1ch nich wolterhin swil Ingo.

Der Not ¿chorchend, nuberte loh aich sohllelllch der Ori

cohaft Xezal-rabohe. Ult seinen rucairohen Sprohkanntalo

aen konnte ich nich dun herbelcekon enen Per:onen nicht

verstundllch nachon. Min baronte nich ait stöcken und

Axten, bie Ich ole nonl1e0l1od überseugon konnte, daß

Ich aue den ruro. Osbiot kine und un liito bitte, Mlinner

dor Ortronast übergaben aich sohlloßlsch don nilltirisonen

Bchörden in Renal-Paroha.

Bnd malner flucht uns 1oh lediglloh mit oiner Bidehose

bodletdos. An den Fubon batte soh Schwinnfloason. Haltor

trus soh oln Kinpeneoner bol mir, alt don doù miod 1n Not-

falle vorteidigon vollte...

Durch turkiroha lohorden tan 1ch naoh Ersorua und von dort

nach Istanbul, in dro Fluchtlingelager. An 6.7.62 Ubernabsen

mlob U'-Duhörden, die alcà noch an slolonen 9,80 naoh

Dout: ohlnd brachton..

Das 10t d10 Fuhrholt. Ich Disto, rion alo Buel. FlUohtliaß

anzuerkennon, n:1l loh nus politl.ohen Grunden und aua

Anget vor verfolgung moine Heint morineson habe.

Ich bin bioher noch nicht bostraft.

Wegen notner Zukunftonbnlohten befragt, erklire ich, daß

1oh ausgumancorn gedenko, Ba lat abor auch nicat auago

sohlosaen, anß 1oh aloh 1n Europa aledorinese.

•Duo 108 ulles, mas loh von sis aus und aue Burragon angon

kann.

Dio 1n rusalnoher sprache soruhrto Y-rhandlung haba 1oa

verctanion und bastasigo die Richtickols durod soins

Unteroohrift,

J. Sanders

Темиі

211233459

---

## Page 66

MICROFILMED

JUN 1 6 1904

DOC: MiCRO. SER.

ENTION AGRONEIL

IP.

The undersigned hereby acknowledges shot s contractual relationshis

has heretofore exisied te:jeen him and the Government of the United jiates

of nuerica (hereinatier referred to us ("the Gorernrent"). The overnent

nas, fully and complerely satisfied all of lis obligations to the uniersigned.

The undersiered on betals of hiaself, tis beirg, executors, airinistra-

cors and assigns hereby releases and forere- discharges the Governizent, 1ts

officers, agents

sai ensicites fron any and sli debts, claims, benerits or

denands arising out of the above mentioned cont-aciual relationshio.

The undergiged full understands and a-preciates the fact that the prior

•relationship between the ratties and all incoration and knowledge, sequired in

the course of said relationship (particularly with reference to persons and

nethods employed by the Gorerment, are the prosa-ty of said Governsent and

constitute militury secrets affecting its security. the undersicard knous und

understands that these are protected by Gerzan is: under the provisions of

Annex A to the Convention: on Fights and Obligstiong of Foreign Forces in the

Federal Republic of Germany.

The Government is hig-ly appreciativo of the excellent services hereto-

fore rendered by the undersigned.

However, is preserve the

security above

mentioned, it 1s further isierstood and agreei that both partles shai! here-

after disavow that tie relationship ever existed.

The undersigned further agrees he possesses no

right, title or interest

in any information or knowledge arising out o: said relationship and he fir-

ther

solennly swears that he sill never divulge, publish or revenl by word,

conduct or

any other deans tre fac; of suld relat caship nor any such inoriece.

or infornation arlaing tierefron except as authoriged in iriting by the sena

oPficial of the Goverissant so that who vitnosses this oath.

Find est Daisin, this Befiay or Pencle 164

WITNESS:

Willin Titus

SEPIRATE COVER ATTACIMENT B

TO

DISPATCH NO. FGOA-21573

DATED 4 JUNE 1964

дііназісі?

---

## Page 67

SEPARATE COVER. ATTACHMENT C TO

DISPATCH NO: EGOA-21573

DATED A JUNE 1964

IDEN LIST

DAVID de PANASKHET.

GEORG REINER

MICROFILMEO

JUN 1619÷4

DOC. i.CRO. 392:

DAVID TZITZICHVILI

0141-2339)

---

## Page 68

14.00000

pito lieiaue

EICERPT FREM BUCA 21151 -- FARVLED RESETTLBLEIE SUBARY POP JANUARY 1964:

WIROGUE

Subject's

new legend has been

translated into German and given to

the ODIBEX Camp King representatives

who will use it as the basis for a

new political recognition interview

story.

As. soon-as the new story is

completed copies will be placed in

the various files to replace copies

of the old story.

At this point,

Subject's documentation will be

compietely in order and actual

rescttle-

nent should be acconplished in

a few

days.

801-233477

---

## Page 69

14-00000

SECRET

HARVARD

SUMMARY OF RESETTLENENT ACTIVITY

1 - 30 September 1963

1:

DEFECTOR CASES:

Case Name

Action Takin

A. On Händ at Beginning of Reporting Period:

DS-109

Subject moved out of HARVARD housing

during the month after naving located

appropriate employment. with CAMANTILLA'S

assistance. The results of Subject's

T.B. tests

were obtained on 24 September

and are negative.. He will continue in

his current job and concentrate on

further English study until December

when he will again be considered for

immigration to the U.S. under P.L.

86÷648.

DS-129

IDEN-271*

Through the assistance of MKTOPAZ and

ODIBEX, Subject received his Fremdenpass

and was interviewed for FEDREP political

recognition.

Shortly after being turned

over to CAMANTILLA,

who is assisting him

in his efforts to obtain local omploy-

ment, thr need for additional interroga-

tion

arose.

While his job hunt was,

therefore, slightly delayed, it should

recommence shortly.

Due to the sensitive

nature of Subject's documentation

problem (having been previously granted

refugee recognition by another country),

HARVARD will continue to maintain contact

with him until the Reiscausweis is issued.

Subject immigrated to the U.S. 19 September

1963 without HARVARD assistaner or

CAMANTILLA sponsorhip.

B. Received During Reporting Period:

DS-130

Profession:

Electro-technictan:

designer o: high voltage

power circuits

Rec'd by HARVARD: 20 September 1963

From:

CABEZONE

Nationality: Czechoslovakian

Age:

No of Dependents:

0

Resettlement,

Officer: Orme K. DARONNAT

Group

1

Excluded

from

autonatic

Downgrading and

declassification

SECRET

201-233477

---

## Page 70

SECRET

-2-

Case Name

Action Taken

c.

DS-130 (Cont)

HARVARD Resettlement Aims:

Subject's

processing

for immigration. to the U.S.

under Public Law

414 has already been

completed.. He is scheduled to depart

28 October 1963 via an ICEM flight for

New York where CAMANTILLA will meet and

assist:

Until this departure date he

will occupy HARVARD housing and continue

his study of English.

DS-133

Profession:

Mechanical Engineer

Rec'd by HARVARD:

30 'September 1963

From:

CABEZONE

Nationality: Polish

Age:

30

No. of Dependents: 0.

Resettlement Officer:

Arthur A. LIFALL

HARVARD Resettlement Aims:

Immigration

to Canada (see EGOA 20576, dated 24

September 1963).

Former Defector Resettlement Cases (or Cases Still in Stage II)

Requiring HARVARD Action During

the Reporting Period:

DS -924

Camp King informed HARVARD that Subject

had applied for a Reiseausweis renewal

in order to visit the FEDREP. Head-

quarters' answer to HARVARD's query re

adviseability of issuing renewal will be

passed to the appropriate authorities,

thru Camp King, when received.

DS-125

While immigration to the U.S. under P.L.

86-648 was initiated for Subject and his

family (see EGOA-20570, 18 September 63),

HARVARD now feels his best. chances for

U.S. entry,

membership,

in view of his long C.P.

is under P. b. 414 first

preference

(see FRAN 2170). Preliminary

discussions have been held with ANCONGEN

and an advisory opinion wil! be obtained.

DS-127

Application for U.S. immigration under

P. L. 86-648 has been formally

turned down by the local I&NS office.

CABEZONE is currently awaiting. Head-

quarters reaction

to EGOẠ-20573,

September which recommends P. L. 110

handling.

Resettled

during the reporting period.

Subject will not

appear on

next month's or subsequent HARVARD reports unless

and until

requiring

some new unforeseen aspect of the case arises

additional HARVARD action.

In this event the

case will

be listed and the new

action described under

Category IC.

SECRET

---

## Page 71

14-00000

SECRET

-3 -

II.

•AGENT CASES:

Case Name

Action Taken

A.

On Hand at Beglaning of Reporting Period:

CAHAVOC - 1

WIROGUE

Subject continues to be of interest

to FOB and will occupy HARVARD housing

until he is successful- in his attempts

to: find an apartment on the economy:

Background material for Subject's new

legend has been acquired with the

assistance of Stage 1. HARVARD hopes

to begin the final stages of Subject's

resettlement in the near future.

IDEN-264*

IDEN-272

Subject immigrated to the U.S. 5 September

1963

on PAA FLT #73.

The initial stages, of FEDREP political

recognition have been completed.

Subject's

position has been legalized to the extent

that he is now looking for employment on

the economy•

B..

IDEN-274

with the assistasce of CAMANTILLA Subject

commenced his photographic training in

Hamburg on 10 September:

Upon completion

of his schooling (in early 1964) he will

be given the monetary grant awarded by

Headquarters as compensation for his

eight-year imprisonment.

Received During Reporting Period:

NONE

Former Agent Resettlement Cases Requiring HARVARD Action

During Reporting Period:

AEBLANKET -2

HARVARD C. O. ORME K. DAPONNAT and

former HARVARD C. O. DAVID R. REINBOLD

visited Subject at her request. She

asked for help for a girlfriend who had

become involved in possible foreigo

intelligence activities in the local

area.

Arrangements were made for

REINBOLD to introduce an FOB/CE C.0.

to Subject.

AEPOLE-25

Additional correspondence has been

exchanged with Subject in connection

with his attempting to establish with

FEDREP authorities that he contributes

to the support, of his children living

in the USSR.

SECRET

---

## Page 72

14-00000

SECRET

DIHESITANT

At the request of FOB/SAT, HARVARD

has been in contact with ANCONGEN FRAN

to estäblish most expeditious way for

Subject to be processed for immigration

to the u.s.

Ilmigration is complicated

by the fact that Subject and wife are

residing in another country and for

security reasons must not be processed

at the U.S: Consulate located in that

country

HARVARD continues to naintain contact

with Subject through our local post

box and is cabling Headquarters and other

appropriate KUBARK elements the gist of

each letter received.

HARVARD maintains periodic contact with

242

this family and continues to pay che

widow of IDEN 238 a monthly subsistence

payment of du 150.

IDEN-239

& 240

HAPVARD arranged for a meeting between

the local representative of CAMANTILLA

and

an FOB/SAT C. O. to discuss the

possibility for continued financial

assistance to Subjects through U.S.E.P.

IDEN 263

The New York office of CAMANTILLA has

brought to HARVARD's attention the

recurring difficulties which it has had

with Subject.

This problem was discussed

with FOB/SAT and a summary of the

situation forwarded to Headquarters in

FROB 5827.

Resettled during the

reporting period. Subject will not appear

on next month's or subsequent HARVARD reports unless and until

unforeseen aspect of the case arises requiring

additional HARVARD action.

In this event the case will be listed

and the new action described under Category IIC.

S

E

CRET

---

## Page 73

1-00000

EXCERPT FROM EGOA 20791 (PARVARD Fesettlement Sunary)

Detober. 63

WIROGUE

Subject's new legend has been prepared

and will be used to provide the details

for a new FEDREP political recognition

interview.

The next step will be to

arrange to have the new interview story

substituted for

the old thus paving the

way for Subject's permanent resettlemeat.

101-233477

---

## Page 74

14-00000

CUSEACATION

DISPATCH

10

iNtC

Chief, EB

Chipl of Base, Eonn

FROM

Chiet, Coordination & Support Base/Frankfurt

CAREZONE/ HARVARD

Eactstopping of Resettlement & Disposal Cases

FYI

(Nit:s.

•A.

FRAN. 6399

B:

BONN 4139

C:

EGOS 11325

D.: "EGOT 18868

MAT-SIMPO 410 10

P695-2ARj2

MARKED FOR INDENING

NO INDERING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUALIFIED MO DESK ONLY

the problcu of VIROGUE which is noy being clirified.

References represent an initial misunderstanding of

2..

The problen of backstopping of resettlerent and

disposal cases has been carefully

reviewed by elements of CSB

concerned including CABEYONE; UKTOPAZ. and CATHINS. In this

connection there is attacked a copy of a menorandin dated 27

August 1963 fron Chief/UKTOPAZ which outlines the current

situation.

As will be noted IRTOPAZ has and vill expand its

capability for procurement of operational docurents independent

of the

513th ICG.

It is believed that the present procedures

for backstopping of resettlezent and disposal cases should be

continued.

In theory an independent capability ia desirable

but not really practical at this tine.

Creation of an

independent capability for backstopping resettlenent cases

would require duplication of the procedures and practices now .

folloyed by hir. fillny of

the Sl3tu ICG.

In addition, we would

not have the advantage of liiding our cases from the Germans among.

other Aray disposal cases.

Furthernore, USAREUR has requested

notification prior to contact with any Germn officials

of any

sengitive cases which we may desire to handle without military

assistance--see USAREUR letters dated 7 August 1961 and 25 March

1962, attached.

"ith considerable effort it would be possible

•to backstop some of our resettlenent and disposal cases directly

with German officials.

It would be quict difficult, however, to

prevent the Army frou learniag of such action which is contrary

to tlie USAREUR request.

"It is possible that the PEDREP will enact new

legislation on the control of non-Gernan refugees.

Likewise,

new

FEDREN energency laws may affect this type of case.

We vill

keep this situation under reviey and in the event the circun-

stances change will inittate appropriate action.

NORRIS D. MAILACH

Attachrents: (H/M)

1.

Meno did 21 Aug '63

USAREUR L-tr atd

7 AUg

861

3. USANEUR Ltr did 23

Mar

'€2

Distribution:

2 - C/ES w/atts

1 - COE/Bonn w/o atts

+2610-2-3-34-77

F156::0

11750

195: 53

1801

war caod?

Occasurs

---

## Page 75

14-00000

Follow #1 to Richmond

Tura RIGHT off #1 on #161 approdmately

2 riles before you reach Richmond City limits.

Follow #161 over 54 toll bridge to #360.

Turn right on 1360 to #753.

Turn left on #153 to 1460.

Turn RICHT on #Li6O to Blackstone.

Turn LEFT on road to main gate - Camp Pickett

At Main Gate - call Bldg. No. 2813.

Operator will place call.. Escort will meet

you at main gate.

2813 - Exto 4120

cool fre:

SKI

KAY

201.235487

---

## Page 76

14-00000

beaptlille i lidie: 3

Ilear l'au

Is fir cee see c baik le dove wind in tie diize tome

to id fat in the tir forie:I here ressed the nve treie

B3pole to lis withet cond tesable thargh thent wies imed

litie et f)llinee Tewees Hatel. Thise liaiser peorer nse wiry

mpertant or may chn seeurily and my travellind and it

woll be almost infissible hoilend twe other iner I

iilintification

cards: dide Hat: The slalionin e title tene annd taritlend

The wlate frtes ane movous terane the elt git inssinity

Lhoin gigungu's grising withence and the tie's Guerumer

tialure to

tad teright selation do lla frosent co ndet linega.

mbeäeaat llis eecodod dod leg dein dos dhe tiene dt !!

i ean lucke fo

ws arflin auat le secaeur i t dadlse cdt lo ine tehat

o tage ilou

'id t giees daend ite dotie boe at!

Iaa, daing nosr. Isupoose

you went lakie euntuct with me you cau alouugs wzite lo

---

## Page 77

14-00000

lord if it Me Minded lid theist the lit done dildo it

Homie fig fiver.

BP. 2941

a pint to a fat and i to

to days defor any defarture at the Direct

I hope your are in good health

George.

ATTA:HALENT =4!

---

## Page 78

CLASSIFIEO.MESSIGE

INOLI-CLASTITY TO

CROSS

FILENiS

ICTiON.

INFO :

DECTROR RETOTO D5A:

TAFD

CI, 5o/OP3, F1, CDC, AF 4, SR 6, S/C 2

FRA: INSE PIR FROS CITE BONN A35A

HARVARD iCTROVE WIROGUE

10. MAR 1963

IN39733

SUCHST YOST DISCREET WAY OBTAIN INFO REQUIRED IS QUERY

TO CARAVEL.

SEER

C/s cobvT: *STATED FOR RESETTLEMENT PURPOSES IT IMPOPTANT HARVARD KION WHETHER

WIROSIT LIGTED INTERPOL.

ROUTING

RID/A'T

RID/UTS

RIAIPS

INITTA

AF/2

R

FROdUCTION BY OTHER

701-233477

AUTOMATIC DOUH-

-PATING & DECLASSIFICATION

FICE IS PROHIBITED

---

## Page 79

ki: 2hia:i9

751-233471

.DEX-CLASSIF.Y

cRosS

SNOREFERE

FILE

RIO_ DESTROY

SIGNATURE

MATO-PRANCH,

31÷)

CLASSIFIED NESSAGE

INFO

:: C1, 61/OPS, FL, CDC, AF Z 5R 6, S/6 2

SECRET 1816112

BONN INFO DIR CITE FRAN 740T

HARVARD LCIMPROVE VIROGUE:

Y

REP FRAN 6489(1N 662960)8

1 8 MAR 1963

WN88799

•1. FOR RESETTLEMENT: PURPOSES IT IMPORTANT HARVARD KNOW

WHETHER WIROGUE LISTED INTERPOL. CAN BONN DISCREETLY MAKE THIS

DETERMINATION?

• 2. NO. FRAN TRACES UNDER NAMES DAVID TZITZICHVILI OR DAVID

DE PANA SKHET DOB 20 DEC 1919 TIFLIS, USSRO

R: SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *SUGGESTED CAVATA BE ADVISED WIRAGE WILL PROBABLY BE RESETTLED

OUTSIDE GERMANY.

R

ROUTING

JETTHAT

RID/A!

RID/MIS

RUSARS

PASTE

Af/)

LASTROY

701-233457

GROUP 1

KEI

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

---

## Page 80

SECRET

6 FEB 63

DIRECTOR.

FRANKFURT

= ON: EE 6

iFO : C1, Cl/OPS, FI, CDG, TSD. 51

CAr Y,

SR 6, S/C 2

FEB 6 15112 03

ROUTINE

John

BONN INFO DIR BRLN CITE FRAN 6489

..HARVARD LCIMPROVE CAVATA TECHS WIROGUE

HEREF

BONN 4139

(*60901)*

1N62960

1.

ORDER XEEP CAVATA OUT OF VIROGUE CASE THEY MAY BZ

INFORMED VIROGUE IS OF CONTINUING OPS INTEREST TO AIS. HOWEVER

AS HARVARD EXPLAINED DURING OCA VISIT BONN 5 FEB WIROGUE WAS AND

IS STRICTLY RESETTLEMENT CASE OF NO AIS OPS INTEREST.

2.

SUGGEST

CAVATA) ALSO BE ADVISED WIROGUE WILL PROBABLY BE

PESETTLED OUTSIDE GERMANY.

Paternal

wice

END OF MESSAGE

C/S. COMMENT: * REQUESTED INFORM CAVATA THROUGH NORMAL CHANNELS.

0101-283477/

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFIGE 49 PROMIEATED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 81

CLASSIDED MESSAGE

SECHET

DATE :

TO

FROM :

ACTION:

:INFO :

2. FEB 63:

DIRECTOR

BONN

LE 6

C1, C1/OPS, FI, CDC, TSD 5,

AF 4,

SR 6, S/C 2

L

2

ROUTINE

BICA

15 :

1'6!

FE3 2 14192 63

ROUTINE

chin

PRITY FRAN INFO DIR BREN CITE BORN 4139

HARVARD LCINPROVE CAVATA TECHS GIROSUE

liti

IN$0901

REF FRAN 6399 ( 60224)

1. SINCE THIS IS APPARENTLY A KUSARK CASE AND ORIGINAL QUERY

CAME FROM CAVATA TO XUBARX ELEMENT OCA, FAIL UNDERSTAND NEED

FOR TRANSMITTING REPLY TO CAVATA VIA 513TH PEP. ALSO DO NOT

FEEL IT NECESSARY CONTACT CAVATA CHIEF IN RESPONSE ROUTINE

WORKING LEVEL CAVATA QUERY. THIS HAY SE ATTEMPT ON WILLMS

PART TO FIND EXCUSE VISIT CAVATA CHIEF..

•2. IF THIS ROUTINE CABEZONE CASE FEEL STAGE I DEBRIEFING

AND ASSESSENT WHICH NORMALLY PASSED CAVATA WILL SATISFY LATTER'S

REEDS. ON OTHER HAND IF XUBARK HAS CONTINUING OPERATIONAL

INTEREST AS PARAGRAPH 2 IMPLIES ME CAN INFORM CAVATA ACCORDINGLY

THROUGH NORMAL CHANNELS.

3.

PLEASE ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *FRAN ASKED BÜNN ADVISE IF DESIRES WILLMS CHECK IN WITH BONN

PRIOR VISIT CAVATA.

211-233477

EXCLUDCO FROM AUTO-

SECRET

MATIC CUWNGRADING &

DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRUHIBITED.

Copy

---

## Page 82

ME CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECHIT

DATE :

AFRE C9

DIRECTO:

FROM :

FRAKFURT.

ICTION: • EE 6

INFO

: C1, CI/CPS,. Fl, CDC, TSD

Callope

FIS : 1420z 63

s/c 2

ROUTINE

Sohn

soft fit

INºC224

PRITY BONN INFO DIR BREN CITE FRAN 6399

MARVARD LCIMPROVE CAVATA TECHS

TROGUE,

REF. EGNA 25083

1. SUBJ REF IS HARVARD AGENT DISPOSAL CASE VIROGUE REGISTERED

CAMP KING WHERE ME PROCESSED 28 AUG 62 FOR POLITICAL RECOGNITION.

IN ORDER LEGALIZE HIM FOR RESETTLEMENT.

20 CASE DISCUSSED WITH MR. JOHN WILLMS WHO WILL VISIT BONN.

5 FE3 AND WILL TAKE MAITER UP DIRECTLY WITH CHIEF, CAVATA TELLING

HIM THIS AIS CASE AND ASK HIM NOT PURSUE.

3.

PLS ADVISE PRIORITY IF YOU DESIRE WILLMS CHECK IN HITH YOU

PRIOR MIS VISIT CAVATA

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

201.233477

EXCLUOCO FROM

MAILS COWNOPADING

REPROGUCRION D: OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

Copy so

---

## Page 83

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECKET

"ITiS.NO. -

1

206v237477

ROUTING

DATE

1EES 

: CIRECTOS

FROM

: FRAWFITT

•RE FLing ichiti osei:

ACTION: • EE 6

INFO: C1, C1, FI, CDC, TSO SAtE

Stre

FEB 1 1420Z 63

ROUTINE

PRITY BONN INFO DIR BRUN CITE FRAN 6399

jit 2011-

HARVARD LCIMPROVE CAVATA TECHS VIROGUE

IN50224

REF EGNA 25083

1. SUBJ REF IS HARVARD AGENT DISPOSAL CASE VIROGUE REGISTERED

CAMP XING VHERE HE PROCESSED 28 AUS 62 FOR POLITICAL RECOGNITION

IN ORDER LEGALIZE HIM FOR RESETTLEMENT.

2. CASE DISCUSSED VITH MR. JOHH VILLMS WHO VILL VISIT BONN

5. FEB. AND WILL

TAKE MATTER UP DIRECTLY WITW CHIEF, CAVATA TELLING

HIM THIS

AIS CASE AND ASK HIM NOT PURSUE.

3.

PLS ADVISE PRIORITY. IF YOU DESIRE WILLMS CHECK IN HITH YOU

PRIOR HIS VISIT CAVATA.

END OF MESSAGE

ROUTING

+):

WORd

15-39

1389 a

201-233477

EXCCELLO PROM XUYES

SECRET.

GONNGRADING &

DEGLIBSIFICATION

REPROSSOTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy NO."

---

## Page 84

14-00000

ORIG :"

UNIT :

EXT

Johin Kelly

1F!S

GLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-G-R-E-T

3n40-y 1963

1O

FRARTURT LBOPOWUVILEEIE

o cs Rocaca va hcfadt3+

Y cio thia cons

FROM:

DIRECTOR

Deaich copy aied as liidicaird

• RE Indexing (check one):

_ CONF:

C/AF 3

Marked

Jjaio required. a

1x.i

INFO :

. ADDP, C/C1, C/FI 2, C/TSD 3, CDC, C/EE 31

C/SR 4, S/C 2:

•TO

FRAN

INFO

LEOP

it

H'ARVARD TEC:IS HIROGUE

AF/5 1/7-pite.

0205000LD

per

ESN: 43-43

COP

AOUTAG

15.1

JT 09.

ife;

DEFERRED

XZROUTINE

CITE DIR

12271

12271

RID/NXS

- PIBT1

RID/E

#tai

tl.: t:

94232.

pe. GSH- 49.13 -

-201-233977

99:914211

135)

rons 1389 a

---

## Page 85

14-00000

ORIS

UNF

EXT

i Telly

12/5

CLASSIFIEC MESS-GE

S-EGRET

ROUTING

2!

FROM

zemy 1963

FRANKFURT IBOPOLDVILLE

DIRECTOR

•C/AF

• INFO:

ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/iSO 3, CDC, APLeS, 49 C/SA 4, S/C;2

то.

FRAN

INFO: LEOP

BYRAT

HARVARD TECHS

WIROOUE

RER EGOA 18888

CITE DIR

12271

•1. HES RECANEIDS IMPLEMENTATIO: PARA 3 B REF. CONCUR ODIBEY

LETTER ATTESTING TO SOLVENCY AND IONTHLY PAYIENTS RATHER TRAN LUP SUM.

SiRE GANO TAVE CAPALATY MOVIS IN CRUERA TEZUS INPO ROCUESTED PARA 3 D

REY: IF LEGEND AND SPECIFIC DATES SUPPLIED.

77J05

0./ 09₴

DEFERRED

XI ROUTINE

evin

12271

7K

END OF MESSAGE

Alime

ICER

DIS

÷13

AF/5SF

AF/S C

SR/6/Support

COOCDINAILS

GROUP I

Excluded trors notaratte

Bour ending and

SECRET

REPRODUCTION 8Y OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

fr. Feiian

AF/COPS

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

Copy No.

111233477

---

## Page 86

4-00000

DATE

- 10 dAN 63

DIRECTOR

JM

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-Ü=T •

241-237472

ROUTING

22T00i

ROM

Near sa.

# 4599-16s=+

ICTION SHES AF

2: 671022:20

== tic.

NFO

ADDP, C/CI, COC, C/TSO 2, C/AT 305/05.

Kille

•ГО

SHIND

LEOP Poi Lan to 43

JAN iO 14237 63

ROUTINE

IN 47630

CITE FRAN 5867

DIR

INFO

RYBAT HARVARD TECHS WIROGUE.

A7/5.

ip

ROUTING

RUD/A':.

RID/173

27200

per Got 43-43

• 700: 300

261.2.33478

---

## Page 87

14-00000

CLASSIFIEU MESSAGE

SECRET

DATE

TO

071

10 NAN 63

DiRECTOR.

FROM : FRANKFURT

ACTION: S/AF 3:

INFO

C/ES 3, S/C 2

per ESH 43-43

ROUTING

15

JAN 10 1821Z 63

ACTION CHANGE

ROUTINE

IN 47630 A FRAN 5867

CIFE

giher

INFO

RYBAT HARVARD TECHS WIRCOUR

C/S COMMENT:

ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED

FROM EE TO AF BY A. STEEL, EE, EXT. 6023 18 COORDINATION WITH

SANDRA STEEL, AF, EXT. 5032.

291 6 13 43

201-2.35477

TEXCLUOLO FROM AUTOR

MATIC DOWNGRADINGi

SECRET

OECLABSIPICATION

REPRODUCTION 8Y OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 88

4-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

10 JAN 63

JM

DATE

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM

FRANKFURT

Suits.

ACTION: C/EE 3

per Cal 49 43

• INFO

ADDP, C/CI, CDC, C/TSD 2, G/AF 32, 5/C 2

ROUTING

5

'6

JAN 10 14237 63

ROUTINE

IN 47630

• TO

DIR

INFO

RYDAT

HARVARD TECHS WIROGUE

PLS REPLY EGOA-18888.

LEOP

CITE FRAN 5067

END

OF

MESSAGE

per CSM 43-43

EXCLUDED FROM AUTO-

| MATIC DOWNGRADING&

S-E-C-R-E-T

DEcLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

101-233477

Copy No.

---

## Page 89

14-00000

AGENTS AND IDENTITIES

CAHAVOC - 1

CANDARE-3

DUMARGIN-3

WI ROGUE

IDENTITY-264

IDENTITY -266

DS-997

S-E-C-R-F-T

HARVARD

MONTHLY RESETTLEMENT SUNMARY

1. 31 Jarcary 1963

CASE OFFICER

DARONNAT

REINBOLD

REINBOLD

DARONNAT

• DARONNAT

REINBOLD

DARONNAT

STATUS

Subject's papers for employ-

ment with the Bundeswehr-

sprachdienst are still being

processed.

In the meantime

Subject continues to occupy

HARVARD housing:

Subject's housing problem

remains unchanged.

There

is ne indication when the

problem will be solved.

Subject's political reccgnition

and Reiseausweis

are 'expected

earsy in February.

At that

time the case will be closed.

HARVARD will begin making

arrangements for Subject's

South

American imnigratien

processing.

HARVARD expects Subject's

visa to be issued in March.

Subject will remain in

HARVARD housing until his

father, CANDARE-3,

locates

housing of his own.

Profession: Electrical

engineer

Rec'd by HARVARD: 15 January

1963

From: CABEZONE

Age:

34

Nationality: Czech

Resettlement Aims:

United

States Immigration

Evac. Code: B

Subject will be processed

for

immigraticn

to the

United States under PL-114.

S-E-C-R-E-T

Group 1

Excluded

from automatic

downgrading and declassification

201-233477

---

## Page 90

SUED MESSED:

ROUTiNG

5

6

TO

: DIRECTOR

FRON: : GENEVA

ACTION: C/EE 3

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, 6/F1 2, RI/Ail DUNSTi

SECRET Ü91615Z

FRAN INFO DIR SERN CITE GNVA

tess

per CSil 45-79

STA CHIDDAUGH ACTING) 119 AU 631496722

INX GIROGUE SEZAT

Soft

REF EGOA 19722

REGRET DELAY RESPONDING REF.

PLEASE ADVISE WHETHER YOU

STILL INTERESTED CONVERSATION WITH INSTRUMENT 17.. LATTER SLATED

LEAVE GNVA NEAR FUTURE FOR MCS ICE ¡ONGÑONG•

• 2.

INDEX 201-1101253.

SE

CRET

-201-233477

GROUP 1

i'=.

TERRITO BEN 437PCACLIDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-

L..ONO GECIASCIFICATION.

REPRODUCTION BY MINER IN THE ISOLING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No

---

## Page 91

14400700

SECRET

HARVARD

SUMMARY OF RESETTLEMENT ACTIVITY

¡- si quiy 1963

1.

DEFECTOR CASES:

Case Name

Action Taken

On Hand at Beginning of Reporting Period:

DS-102

DS÷105*

DS-108

DS-109

DS-129

IDEN-271

Subject's processing for immigra-

• ton. to the U.S. under PL-110 is

continuing and it is expected that

he will depart in the near future.

Subject immigrated to CANADA 8 July

1963 on ICEM Ship MS ARCADIA. Case.

closed.

Subject continues to study English

while his processing for immigration

to the U.S.

under the Parolee Act

15 completed.

He will give up his

job

in Ruesselsheim early next month

and return to Frankfurt.

Subject's processing for immigration

to the U.S. under the Parolee Act

has been deferred until December 1963.

Due to a change in the right lung,

discovered while comparing recent and

earlier x-rays, the U.S.P.H.S. has

requested the

deferment until

sputum

tests ard future x-rays indicate

the

condition stabilized or eliminated.

Arrangements are being made through

ODIBEX for Subject to receive FEDREP

political recognition.

CAMANTILLA

will then assist in finding a job

and housing on the local economy.

In the meantime Subject is taking

German language lessons.

Subject's life story has been

prepared with appropriaté changes

regarding his defection in Ireland.

The story will be presented to FEDREP

authorities for political recognition

and Subject will be found work and

housing on the local economy.

B. Received During Reporting Period:

NONE

Group 1

Excluded from automatic

towngrading and declassification

201-239877

SECRET

---

## Page 92

14-00000

II.

SECRET

-2-

c.

Former Defector Resettlement Cases (or Cases Still in Stage

IT Requiring HARVARU Action During the Reporting Period:

ĐS-96₫

HARVARD has learned through

CAMANTILLA that Subject and wife

have returned to the U.S. where

both have found employment and are

now apartment hunting.

DS-981

At Subject's request

HARVARD made

arrangements to obtain a duplicate

of the deregistration form

covering

Subject's move from Frankfurt to

Neuss in July 1962.

DS-999

Subject and family are being assisted

in obtalning West German citizenship:

DS-127

Subject's Communist Party membership

was discussed informally but at some

length with the local ODURGE chief..

Since the latter believed that Subject's

membership would, according to the strict

interpretation of the law, be ruled

voluntary, processing for immigration to

the U.S. under Public Law 110 has been

requested:

Resettled during

the reporting period.

Subject will not appear

on next month's or subsequent HARVARD reports unless and until

some new unforeseen aspect of the case arises requiring additional

HARVARD action.

In this event the case will be listed and the new

action described under Category I C.

AGENT CASES:

Case Name

Action Taken

A. On Hard at Beginning of Reporting Period:

CAHAVOC- 1

Subject has begun to look for an apart-

ment on the local economy. In the mean-

time he will continue to occupy HARVARD

housing.

WIROGUE

Subject's legend is being rewritten

and when finished will provide the

• basis for a more clausible political

recognition story.

HARVARD hopes that

with the substitution of the new story

for the old, positive steps can be taken

for Subject's resettlement.

IDEN -264

The morale problem created by the slow

moving quota under which Subject is

registered for U.S, immigration has

required HARVARD to register her for

immigration under the Parolee Act.

It

is expected that Subject will receive

her visa in August or September but the

Parolee Act will be used in the event the

• quota continues to remain unchanged.

SECRET

---

## Page 93

SECRET

-3-

IDEN-272

HARVARD has been informed that Subject,

under no condition,

should be allowed

to return to Austria. ODIBEX 1s ex-

ploring additional possibilities

for

Subject to stay and work in the FEDREP

without restrictions.

IDEN- 274

Subject has been enrolled in a 3 month

photography school located in Hamburg.

It commences in early September and is

designed to prepare students for taking

the examination for the masters certificate

In photography, a must for someone working

in this field in the FEDREP.

In the interim;

Subject is studying photographyon his own,

utilizing borrowed MKTOPAZ equipment.

B: Received During Reporting Period:

NONE

C.

Former Agent Resettlement Cases Reguiring HARVARD Action

During Reporting Period:

TULANCE - 1

HARVARD continues to maintain contact with

Subject through our local post box and is

cabling Headquarters and other appropriate

KUBARK elements the gist of each letter

received.

IDEN -238, 212,

and

244

HARVARD maintains periodic contact with

this family and continues to pay the widow

of IDEN-238 a monthly subsistance payment

The family has been on vacation

during the last three weeks.

IDEN -247

IDEN- 267

•Subject contacted HARVARD

for the second

recent weeks.

She was visited

and the new information passed on to

as before (See EGOA-20258, 22 July 1963).

At Subject's request HARVARD arranged to

obtain a duplicate of

the ideregistration

form covering Subject's move from Frank-

furt to Neuss in August 1962.

S

C R

E T

---

## Page 94

14-00000

Wingin

HARVARD

SUMMARY OF RESETTLEMENT ACTIVITY

1 - 31 Hay 1963

I. DRC CASES:

Case Name

A. On Hand at Beginning of Reporting Period:

DS -102

Action Taken

DS-108

DS -109

A firm offer

of employ-

ment with ODIBEX is

anticipated. Subject

will then be processed

for immigration to the

U.S. under PL-110.

Subject has a room and

temporary

employment in

Rüsselsheim.

Не соп-

tinues to study English

while awaiting immigra-

tion to the U.S. under

the Parolee Act. He

was interviewed on 24

Nay by an Immigration

and Naturalization

Service Officer and will

presumably receive a

visa upon completion

of the INS checks.

Subject has a room and

temporary employment in

Russelsheim.

He con-

tinues to study English

while awaiting inmigra-

tion to the U.S. under

the Parolee Act. He

was interviewed on 24

May by an Immigration

and Naturalization

Service Officer and will

presumably receive a

visa upon completion

of the INS checks.

B. Received During Reporting Period:

DS-120

Profession: Aircraft

Mechanic and Pilot

Rec's by HARVARD: 31 May

1963

From: CABEZONE

Nationality:

Bulgarian

Age:

23

Group 1

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and declassification

SECRET

201.233477

---

## Page 95

14.00000

SECRET

Case Name

DS-120 (cont)

Actien

Taken

•No. of Deps:

0

Resetrlement Officer:

Arthur A. I-FALL

FARVARD Resettlament

Aims:

German Economy

While Subject aspires

to be a l'S. military

• jer piiot, this is --

frcm many

angles --

unrezlistic:

It is

believed that Subject

may, in time, be able

to obtain ar aircraft

mechanic's job in West

Germany and possibly a

commercial pilot's

license.

This will

probably have to be

preceded by work as an

atemebiie mechanic

while learning the

German language.

IDEN- 271*

Profession:

Mathema-

tician

•Recid by HARVARD: 7 Maj

1963

From: CABEZONE

Nationality: Czech

Age:. 40

No. of Deps:

Resettiement Officer:

Orme K. DARONTAT

HARVARD Resettiement

Aims: wernan Eccucmy

C.

Subject viji be processed

for political recconition

and approgriate FEDREP

documentation.

He has

been made USEP eligible

and through CAMANTiLLA

will be heiped to find.

wirk and housing on tre

incal econcmy.

Former Cases (or Cases Still in DRC Stage 2) Requiring

IRVARD Action During the Reporting Fernau.

DS-782

HARVARD, at the request

of FOB, contacted ANCONGEN

Frankfurt to determine

the status of subject's

visa application.

It nis

learned that the case ca!

not be written up until

necessary checks are con-

pleted.

re would apfear

that the care will not he

submitted to Washingtu!:.

for at least thiee weelis.

SECRET

---

## Page 96

14.00000

1:

SECKET

Case Name

DS-999

DS -105

IDEN-265

IDEN-273*

AGENT CASES:

Action Taken

Subject and family were

foiwarded application

forms for filling out

and return in connection

with their obtaining test

German citizership.

Sub-

ject's new address

WAS

pcuched BOB in response

to the latter's request.

Subject visited the

Canadian Consulate in

Cclogne on. 30 May to

initiate arrangements

for his immigration.

HARVARD had briefed

him

on this trip beforenard

in accordance with the

information contained

in OTTA 0710.

treated extremely well

and ail went very smoothly.

It appears that he will be

abie to immigrate shortly

after completion of his

Stage IT debriefing.

At the request of Subject,

HARVARD retürned several

of his original documents

providing proof of school..

ing.

While Subject's linited

Candling by CABEZOSE is

being compiered, HARVAKD

has initiated the pro-

curement of the necessary

West German documentation

to allow him to remain and

work in lest Germany.

fie

will be turned over to

CANANTILLA who will assist

him in obtaining employ-

ment.

Case Name

Action fakell

A.

On. Hard at Beginning of Reporting Period:

CAHAVOC- 1"

Subject began work on is

May at Di 714 acnthi!.

He will not receive peroa.

nent assignment ard

housing allomance until

the end of his probatin-

ary period.

it is possible,

therefore, that he will

remain in HARVARD housing

until that time.

•SECRET

---

## Page 97

14-00000

SECRET

Case Name

HI ROGUE

IDEN -264

Action Taken

HARVARD with the assist-

ance of Stage l is atrempt-

ing to work up a suitable

legend for use in inni-

gration to Scuth. America

consistent with Subject's

political recognition

interview.

Subject has found work on

the local economy at DA 500

monthly.

She will continue

to stay

in HARVARD housing

until her visa is issued

and immigration can take

place.

B:

Received During Reporting Pericd:

IDEN - 272*

C.

Profession:

Toch Designer

Rec'd by HARVARD: 21 May

1963

From: Vienna Station

Nationality:

Hungarian

Age:

27

No. of Deps:

Resettlement Officer:

Orme K. DARONNAT

HARVARD Resettlement Aims:

German Economy

Subject will be processed

for Autenthaltserlaubnis

and registered. He will

be picked

up as a refugee

case by CAMASTILLA and

helped to find work and

housing on the local

eccnomy.

Former Agent Resettlement Cases Requiring HARVARD Action

During

• The Reporting Period:

AEPOLE-25

DIO-14

HARVARD continuss to assist

Subject in his eiforts

establish,

for Hest German

income tax purposes,

that

he has helped contribute

to the support of his ex-

wife living in the USSR.

A request was received

from the State of Maryland

asking for information on

who immigrated

Su the U.S: under Pu-110

in Jailuary 1956.

Since

all of Subject's records

were transferred with him.

the inquiry was referred

to Headquarters in EGON-

19903, 28 May 1963.

SECRET

---

## Page 98

I..S.ECR

"ET

Case Name

.. DWWARGIN-3

Action Taken

In response to a query

frOm BOB, HARVARD provided

clarification on the pur-

pose and handling of Sub-

ject's Einwelsungverfue-

gung.

¡ TULANCE -1

HARVARD: continues to

maintain contact with

Subject through our local

post box and is cabling

Headquarters and other

appropriate KUBARK

elements the gist of

each

letter received.

IDENTITY-238,

'241 and 242

HARVARD maintains periodic

contact with this family

and continues to pay the

widow of Identity-238 a

monthly subsistence pay-

ment of Du 150.

IDENTITY-270

Additional West German

documantation (Abmelde-

bestaetigung,

Versicher-

ungskarte: and Lohnsteur-

karte:) were obtained

during the month and for-

warded to BOB.

Subject

1s currently being

processed for West German

recognition.

* See Separate Cover. Attachment for true name.

III. MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITY:

A. Effective 10 May 1963, Arthur A, LIFALL, Chief,

HARVARD, became the Station Case Officer for

Project CAMANTILLA (See EGOA-19737).

в.

A request for a provisional and full coveit security

approval on the local ODURGE officer who does the

actual interviewing of HARVARD's candidates for

immigration has been initiated.

CSA has already

been obtaired on the local ODURGE chief. The

additional clearance should allow us to develop

an evel better working relationship with

these

officers than has existed heretofore

When received,

it is planned to brief both individuals in greater

detail

on CABEZONE/HARVARD operations.

SE

---

## Page 99

SECRET

Under Separate Cover Attachment to EGOT-19339, dated 3 June

IDENTITY 271

IDENTITY 272

IDENTITY 273

JANOS, Ludvik

(FR11-8548,

2 May 1963)

505,0 Aрг1u 1963)

Zsigmund (FR0B-$732,

RADISAVLJEVIC,

Radisav

(FRAN-9305, 31 May 1963)

S

• E

R

---

## Page 100

4-00000

• 3:1.01

DISPATCH

DESCENT

Chles, DE: illoi, Ni ChiAs, Mili.

Casal of Birilos, Gersary

HIROGUS/ Besettlemost

BOCA 19708

5600- 1971%

801-

320-120-018/01

34. A0811 1808 2469442

MARIE ICA INDiRING

NO P. DA BINO ATONINEO

INDERING CAN EL IDDED

"I QUAlItO MO DESA ONaT

Boe Para 10

DIR 24971, chied 1B Barch i883

1. In dAy 1942 HARPARD tOO% Over the task of roastellas

VIBOLE, a lOMer BULBOX agent candidato and later AIrlean

Divlal00 agro...

Por wiRoug'e roquest and mita headquartora

concurrencE, HANTARD aRTeed to halD sabjest la lasigratsag to

South Anorica:

8.

passport in allas and

takes to prepare:

for croatual inaigration. It tas

donided that mustact vould regaire ascenestation icà sale

stand un under the investigatton of temigration anthoritley.

Buen a hoy mong aa with tho boip. or

and @inis

polstical recoguitte

tron too veot derman Goveramant.

Too latter gas granton d's i

tão barle o! a tabricated

In paleh cajoct vaporte 80

in a dalrintor Rros tha coongian

кот10! дутир

in baat 50r117,

8,

VILh dUCTAntaLlen La order, MOjoct vas BonE to Ses

local Colmbian Consulate 8o apply doT pasmizalea to isaiato,

as MARVArD had hopen thai mubjoes sonid bo ablo to process en

ation channels and by haviag lotters of serenengation and

lottora of solvency.

Thig To Bot the 0a93.

sad the casantlaa

commulate iniomed abjoet ho coald imigrate only by persualas

throngh tie Intergovernontal Corallico for Europow Elgagtiest.

*4.

Due to tho natura of this esso and'cortain labarent

problers, ae., subjoct haon ertalial record to Fraszo Beá

was a long-time rusident shore, eponts leve than flness Goosylan,

sparks-no Pussian even tuough his story los poiltical megaltien

1341 cain9

ne pade lientonant in the fevlet arny,

bãs so tral

profession

allbough be is

Fall-truche 1a the olectro seasasical

fiald one lo ronilãant

ho

can passa job test as alater schemie,.

Bic, 1t van laporative that tha epocillo dotailo o1 16 Incues.

1k5

Do learned 10 order to find out and Do propased 8es des

problems wilch vould cortainly 25150 11 la Lanigaares easong

1024.

with the Culel, dotuned Algratios Bocklen, Antican Consulate

and Cases,

commish, and establlaund that

asject'e proconuine corash les voale inclado a socarlt

send is doreriond chat only "alga LEvol" typos 7111 Ilgrase

vIth tie remigration plane sod, aithough Chiel EZa and dadaí.

Icta procoonnes takan on rafarea BigratiOn EpplicantS, 409y

rave been forcod lo radrain Sies ByTearIng t03 1015191t870.

130/0-233479

PACE AS

13

53

---

## Page 101

200d 19702

ibal iNdIStibaT 17 as fomor spacial

mirere:

of lone slabs be atle to holp with

=i.,

De lo a poglilen lo utop the investi

7.

ishard ins been able to eatablish that cabjoct 15

riot on record with

TATERFOL eXCOD: DIRAIDlY IN FIANCE aDd LOPOS

8.

CAPTARO

hai also dopod that IRSTRusT 17 algat savo

details n? 1in icte rechanies which noald be dealsablo lo too

108 I

cano pl lila type, especially

glace a alip-up night

cause entirrasoner: lur

FUSARI, CaRE and the jederal Borablle.

5111

¡heri pralde decailo do could bo la a bettar position to

Llo tolerales.

ох, 11 посекиту, tо сло?

the Imaigration place.

ts 8.a7}

interlean

So 1001 it extresoly laporlene is tai

abject will underto, doy searching there

Inserving o1ll se, the prabability that

mub foct sill to intom.

MOved 1: RUSALRU IT lE GOTEdan (subjOC! spUnia depan are

ra1r17 4010-508:111), 0hat preparationa can be eate to insure

1181

the priceasing

1o the

runs da Baoothly so pousible, boy latensite

1es1105, o1G.

regaroing the above thas unsla be the esco vich a

CAME ONE CALLE

7243

to. Gonora:

Hence

10.

and

sharainite

18 18

sequested that. l8 ANUTRISHAT 17 13 2a a

DASONNAP In discuss

an apparatsent on nada with &Z0THUasT 17 10= Grio 1.

11 15 11 a P0811100

in1s probles vita sir, anloes fosoma 28019

10 dO SO CO BABTAI'S bObALa.

APPROVED.

Co"

??

=.

2 - Calri,

AY

RIDAD +31

PAGE MO

---

## Page 102

14-00000

DATE

TO

FROM :

ACTION:

INFO

034

1.9: MAR 63:

DIRECTOR

BONN

AF I

EE 42: S/C2

7/10

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

:S-E-E-R-E =T

2

ROUTING

5.

MAR 20 1654Z 63

ACTION CHANGE

ROUTINE

IN 89733A BONN 4350

HARVARD LCIMPROVE. WIROGUE

fite Wrogue aftifele,

CITE

Johan

C/S COMMENT: ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM EE

TO AF BY BILL BRENDLE EE

IN COORDINATION WITH JOHN KELLY AF EXT 5457.

¡ ' й 'ят!

soi,

12334477

GROUP 1

S-E-E-R-E-T

"GRADOER FROM

DECLASS THE POUN-

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 103

14-00000

= 10

11%

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R=E-T

ROUTING

DATE

TO

FROM :

ACTION:..

INFO

18 MAR 63

DIRECTOR

FRANKFURT

AF I

EE I2 S/C?

2

3 l

ACTION CHANGE

ROUTINE

IN 882994 FRAN 7407

.. CITE

TO

file iSingue enff pile

Sohn

HARVARD. LCIMPROVE WIROGUE

C/S COMMENT: ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM EE TO

AF BY BILL BRENDLE EE

IN COORDINATION WITH JOHN KELLY AE EXT .5457

1970.

#+80544-5007777

201-235477

GROUP 1

S-E-CaR-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

28-254

---

## Page 104

a1..

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

duct

IF 4, SR 6, S/C 2

-5

ACTION:

EE 6

INFO.: CI, CI/OPS, Fi,

•SECRET IBIGIIZ

BONN INFO DIR CITE FRAN 7407

REF. FRAN 6489(1N 62960)8

18 MAR 1963

HN88799

1.. FOR RESETTLEMENT PURPOSES IT IMPORTANT HARVARD KNOW

WHETHER WIROGUE LISTED INTERPOL. CAN BONN DISCREETLY MAKE THIS

DETERMINATION?

woe: 4057

#R+22451.7'92

2.. NO FRAN TRACES UNDER NAMES DAVID TZITZICHVILI. OR DAVID

DE PAÑASKHET DPOB 20 DEC 1919 TIFLIS, USSR.

SECRET

72-y-

Er...

C/S COMENT: *SUGGESTED CAVATA BE ADVISED WIRAGE WILL PROBABLY BE RESETTLED

OUTSIDE GERMANY.

John

261-23.3477

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN.

rik!

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEO

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATIÓN

---

## Page 105

14-00000

2:: 020/22 tAR 63

$/10

'ATE : 1 FE5 €3

: BiRECTOR

ROM : FRAWFURT

OTION: 52 6

:

Ci, C1/OPS,.F1, CoC, TSD 5, AF 4, S/C 2

ADDED:

AF 3 (ACTION) :

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECHET

ail

15 1

Icli

F55 1 1120288-5

ROUTINE.

PRITY SONN INFO DIR BOLN CITE FRAN €599

HARVARD ICIMPROVE CAVATA TECHS

H022

REE -EGNA 255S3

opera genurea

SUBJ REF IS HARVARD AGENT DISPOSAL CASE VIROGUE REGISTERED

CAYP KING UHERE HE PROCESSED 2S MUS 62 OR POLITICAL RECOGIITIC:

IN CROER LEGALIZE HIM FOR RESEETLE PIT-

2.

CISE DISCUSSED WITH DE JONG GILLES WAG WILL VISIT 30:

5 5E3 AND WILL TAKE HATTER UP DIREGELY WITH CHISE, CAVATA TELLING

HE THIS MIS GASE AND ASK HIM NOT PURSUE.

PLS ADVISE PRIORITY IF YOU DESIRE VILLES CHECK IN WITH YOU

PRIOR HIS VISIT CAVATA.

: 10

file

ENO. OF MESSAGE

200-2994722

MCINOCO NE52S*23E

SECRET

I MATIC DOWNERAS: *5

OIGLASGIFLEAI.IN

REPROGUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 106

14-00000

CLASSIFED MESSAGE

SECHET

DATE: :

TO

FROM :

ACTION:

¿INFO :

2 FEB 6E

DIRECTOR

SONN

EE 6

C1, CI/CPS, FI, CDC, TSO 5, AF 4, SR 6, S/C 2 •

SOUTING

15

6

FEB 2°1419Z 63

ROUTINE

PRITY FRAN INFO DIR BRN CITE BOIN 4139

HARVARD L CIMPROVE CAVATA TECHS CIROGUE

REF FRAN 6309 GN 60228)

INk0901

Desk

SINCE THIS IS APPARERTLY A KUBARK CASE AND ORIGINAL QUERY SO

CAME FROM CAVATA TO XUBARK ELEMENT OÇA, FAIL UNDERSTAND NEED

* FOR TRANSHITTING REPLY TO CAVATA VIN SISTU REP. ALSO DO NOT

FEEL IT NECESSARY CONTACT CALATA CHIEF IN RESPONSE ROUTINE

WORKING LEVEL CAVATA QUERY. THIS HAY EE ATTEMPT ON WILLMS

PART TO FIND EXCUSE VISIT CAVATA CHIEF.

2. IF THIS ROUTINE CABEZONE CASE FEEL STAGE I DEBRIESING

AND ASSESSHENT WHICH NORMALLY PASSED CAVAT: VILL SATISFY LATTER'S

NEEDS. ON OTHER HAND IF KUZARK HAS CONTINVING OPERATIONAL

INTEREST AS PARAGRAPH 2 IMELIES, VE CAN INEGEM-CAVATA ACCORDINGLY

THROUGH NORMAL CHANNEL SAS

PLEASE. ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMENT:

*FRAN ASKED ECKN

PRIOR VISIT CAVATA.

ADVISE IF DESIRES WILLMS CHECK IN WITH BONN

201-233477

EXCLUDIO FROM AUTO-

SECRET

MATIC

CONNGRADING&

DECLASSITICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

- 2e

---

## Page 107

14-00000

AGESTS. AND IDESTITIES

-==

CAHAVOC -1

C.ANDARE - 3

IDESTITY-264

IDF.NTITY -266

S-E-C-R-E-T

HARVARD

MONTHLY RESETTLEXENT SUMMARY

1 - 31 December 1962

CASE. OFFICER

DARONNAT

REINBOLD

REINBOLD

3 526=

DARONNAT

• DARONNAT

REINBOLD

STATUS

Subject's papers for employ-

ment with

the Bundeswehr

sprachdienst are still being

processed.

In the meantime

Subject continues to occupy

HARVARD housing.

Subject is still trying to

line up his own housing in

the Frankfurt area.

In the

neantime he, his wife and

son are living in a HARVARD

apartment.

Profession:

Barber

-Rec"d by HARVARD: 27 'December

1962

.2G

From:

BOB

Age:

42*

Nationality: Yugoslav

Resettlement Aims:

Evac. Code:-_B=

Local

economys

Subject was processed for his

West

German

documentation and

recognition as a bona fide

political refugee.

He received

his Fremdenpass on 27 December

1962 and will get his recog-

nition and Reiseausweis some-

time in

January 1963.

At

that time the case will be

closed.

Pis. 22=

HARVARD is awaiting Head-

quarter's advice regarding

the implementation of Subject' a

S.A. immigration.

AMICONGEN Frankfurt has advised

HARVARD that Subject's visa

should be issued in late

February or early March.

Subject, the son of CANDARE-3

is helping his parents find

housing

in the Frankfurt area.

He is still gainfully employed.

Group 1

Excluded from

automatic

downgrading and declassification

S-E-C-R-E-T

141-233477

---

## Page 108

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

-2 -

IDENTITY -268

REINBOLD

DS- 987

REINBOLD

DS-990

-...

REINBOLD

i CRETE SY 3520

Subject's refugee processing

has been delayed due to the

fact he is under 21 years of

age and thus necessitates

special consideration and

treatment.

It is expected,

however, that he will have

•his Notaufnahmeverfahren

sometime in January 1963.

It is still hoped that

Subject's parole processing

will be completed in time

to enable him and his wife

to make the 31 January 1963

ICEM charter flight.

Subject seems to be getting

along well on his job as a

technical assistant with a

construction company. Through

CAMANTILLA he is studying

-German and plans are being

made to enroll him

in a

special school which will

enableshim to receive his

diploma

as a geodetic engi-

neer.

In the meantime,

Headquarters will be queried

Re ops

interest in Subject

to determine whether he

should remain on present job

or consider employment with

FFE or VOA.

SUPPORT CASES

TULANCE-1

DARONNAT

IDENTITY-238, 241, 242 REINBOLD

HARVARD continues to maintain

contact with Subject through

sour local postbox. Head-"

quarters and other appropriate

KUBARk elements-are-being kept

advised of Subject's status

-Re:- political asylum,-etc.

Steps are being taken to work

out the method of payment to

the family for the DM 42,000

approved by Headquarters

for

housing.

S-E-C-R-E-T

54S-4035

906.

1273-

---

## Page 109

14-00000

DS-856

DS-997

DS -998

TULANCE- 1

IDENTITY-269

30435

S-E-C-R-E-T

=3 .

DA RONNAT

DARONNAT

DAROSNAT

Subject is seen from time to

time for purposes of identi-

fyino pictüras of scople of

Ops interest.

Subject's processing for

immigration

to the United

States

under PL-414 is

continuing.

Subject's processing for

immigration to the United

States under PL-414 1s

continuing.

His papers

will not be submitted to

ANCONGEN until he is re-

interviewed by KUBARK staff

psychiatrist in January 1963.

RESETTLEMENTS AND DISPOSALS

DARONNAT

REI NBOLD

Subject has been documented

and moved

to Switzerland

where he has requested

political asylum.

Subject

will be handled as a support

case until he receives asylum

ut is permanently resettled.

Subject's federal refugee

processing was

completed on

18 December 1962 when he

received his Notaufnahme-

verfahren.

No difficulty

is expected with his C Schein

process me case considered

closed.

S-E-C-R-E-T

---

## Page 110

14-00000

AGENTS AND IDENTITIES

CAHAVOC-1

CANDARE: 3

• TULANCE -1

WIROGUE

IDENTITY 264

IDENTITY 266

•IDENTITY :268

S-ë-C-R-E-T...

HARVARD

MONTHLY RESSTTLSMEIT SUMMARY

1 - 31 October 1562

CASE OFFICER

DARONNAT

STATUS

REINBOLD

DARONNAT

DARONNAT

DARONNAT

REINGOLD

REINBOLD

Subject has registered with the

police

and is bustly engaged in

seeking employmert.

Subject flew to Berlin on 18

October to close out his personal

matters and arrange for his meve

•to Frankfurt..

In view of OLDMOOR's inability

to

expend time ou TULANCE's resettle.-

ment, HARVARD will go ahead, after

receiving permission and guidance

from Headquarters, with plans to

attempt to resettle Subject per,

DIR: 33746.

Subject will contirue to receive

subsistence

and housing while the

details of his S.A. immigration

are worked out.

Subject has submitted new x-rays

to the Fublic Meaiti. Service and

must analt final decision from

Paris.

In the meantine, Subjeet

is convalescing from a recent

appendicitis cperation.

Subject flew

to Berlin with his

father, CANDARE 3.

He

continues

•to be gainfully empioved.

Profession: Mechanic

Rec'd by HARVAHD. 3V Ontober

P.rom:- BOB:

Age:-19=

Nationality:. German

HARVARD Resettiemer: Aims:. Ical

Eras, Code:

B

economy

Subject was assisted in filling

cut his application form for his

Glessen processing and ad-ised

now to procede Re

on

cotaining nis

West Germen personal doc mentation

and employment.

Orce his Giessen

processing is compieted the case

will be ciosed.

S-E-C-R-E.I

Group 1

Excluded from automatic

doingrading and declassifiration

201-233477

---

## Page 111

• DS-989

REINBOLD

DS..990

REINBOLD

S-E-C.R-E-T

-2 -

Profession: Machine construction

engineer

Rec'd by HARVAPD: 4 O=tober 1962

Prom: CAPEZONE

Age: 34

Nationality, Pelish

Religion:

Roman Catholic

HARVARD Resettlement Alms.

United

•States

See Resettlements and Disposals.

On 1 November 1952 Subject w1ll be

turned over to CAMANTILIA which has

made him USEP. eligible and arranged

to have him study German full time

for one month.' Prior to the end of

November 1962, 1t. 1s hoped that

Subject will be employed by TPEELING

which has expressed an interest in

him, or emplojed on the local eccnomy

with a German engineering firm.

*SUPPORT CASES

IDENTITY 238, 241; 242 REINBOLD

DS-856

DS-987

DARONNAT

REINBOID

DS -992

/ REINBOLD

DS-997

DARONNAT

DS -998

DARONNAT

An all 'öut effort is being made to

solve the family's housing problem

discussed by HOPSOOS, REINBOLD

the BEVISIONs on 4 October1962.,%

"Steps will also be

taken to assist

IDENTITY 241 1n finding suitable

employment.

Subject is seen from time to time

for purposes

af identifying people

of Ops interest.

word was receruly

received from

Headquarters indicating that Sub'ect

and his farily's irmigratich under

PL 86=648 can scon be initated.

135-

-It has been decided trat due to a

previous agreement, KUbARk, unders

no-circumstances, will Intervene

on behalf of Subject li his immi:

gration.

Although Subleat 1s

still 1n

Stage II, processing

for immigration

to the Unfted States under PL.

nas begun.

Although Sublect i5 Still In Stage II.

processing for imnigration to the

United States under PL 4:4 has begun.

S-E.C.R-E-T

---

## Page 112

14.00000

DS-974

DS-982

D3-989

S-F-C-R-E-T

- 3 .

RESETELEPEITS AND DISRISALS

DARONNAT

Subject and smily. immigrated to

the United

States on 2 October 1962

under PL 4j". Case closed.

DARONNAT

subject obiained housing and

empioymen: on the local economy.

Case cicsed.

REINBOLD

Subject imnigrated under PL 86-648

07 30 October 1902 via ICEM Flight

MISAB 12:193. PAIRC, as sponsor,

will handle n1s resettlement.

Case closed.

S-E-C-R-E-T

---

## Page 113

'NIT

"r:

No Rebort

A8/5

5032

13 August 1962

FRANKFURT

DIRECTOR

*-:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

D.0л

ROUTING

1720

INTO: LEOPOLAVILLE (BY FOUCH)

3ICALS

Lep.y

INFO:

ADDE, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC LETSO 2, C/ES 32

-Con

LEUP

14 5, S/0 2

FRAN

INFO

CITE DIR

29622

RYANT HARVARD TECHS VIROGUS

REP:

DIR 27679 %

TO REPOR

WISH DRAW VIROGUE ATTITION /RE TIA SCOTTIG I ISAS

WITHOUT QUOTA RESTRICTIONS.

SUCKING FAR/ iN SKILLS NURES?S, IGFUSING

WHITE COLLAR. GOD LIVING GAIL ES MADE IN EROVINCES.

Tin pEy

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CUT 65370

29422

C/S COMMENT: "OUT 62136, FE RESETTLING WIROUE.

SPC RiT

GROUP 1

Ercludos troo dotara de

dourgrading and

habane for

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

201-233477

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

Copy No.

08201

---

## Page 114

14-00000

CHIG :

UNIT :

!XT

ÜATE

N. Roberts /elb,.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ẠP/5

5032

SFORET.?:

13 August 1962

Leenioiid

DiE tgre irl..rà .dr:

FRANTUI LIO: LEOPOLUVILLE (BY POUJN). Per TSA 45-19

• 14: Gin tlsie mpy ser iacusileal

FPOM:. DIRECTOR

Iranet ruuy ilend as tinl'reiral

AR Trdraing (rinra anr)

CONF:

C/AF 3

Yipe megluired

Sisnature: -

INFO :

ADDR, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC, C/TSD.2, C/EE 3, C/WH: 5, S/C 2

TO

FRAN

INFO.:.. LECP

RYBAT HARYAED TECHS VIROGUE

REPA DIR 27679%

--- p

261-33349).

ROUTING

jud.

1J.2

CITE DIR

.29622

DEFERRED

ROUTINE."

QụT 65370

2.22

FOUTING

INITTAT

160t

25 :359 121260

hortn

DESZNNZO

per GSH 43-43

24.233477

---

## Page 115

14-00000

ORIG.

UNIT :

ExT

TO

FROM:

CONF:

B, ROBERTS.

.AF/5

5÷57

3 AUGUST 1962

PEAKFURT LEOPOLDVITLE

DIRECTOR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SBCRET

se2.

1653

347

SIG CEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

FRAN

0T62136

150P (125

CITE DIR

27679

ROSAY HARVARD TECHS WIROCU

R5P3 A. FRAN 1854 (IN 33838)

RB

B. DIR 15840 (QUT 91968)

NR

1. PER REF B, BURTOT STRONGLY URGES BACKSTOPFED FREMDENPASS BEST LONG

RON VRICES RESETTLE AND LEGALIZE VIROGUS (W). WITA FRSMDENPASS W COULD

EYESTUALLY BECOME CITIZEN OF SELACTED COUMRI. HOS FESTS W SHOULD OBTAIN

ORDE RESIDENCE VISA USING FRE-DENPASS. OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION. SUGARST

COLCHELA OR BRAZIL, BEST AREAS BUT QUESTION HINGES ON WHERE W CAN CET SHIP

ACCEPTSD. KUBARK ABILTTY AID LIGALIZATION IT-ITED AND BEST. HAVE LEGALIZATION

BECIL NOW BACKSTOPPED TO WITHSTAND LATER CHECKS FROM COUNTRY OF CHOICE.

2. CITIZENSHIP REQUIREHKVTS FOR COUIRIES MENTIONED REF A PLUS BRAZIL

RECUTRE FOUR TO FIVE YEARS COTINUOUS. RESIDENCY, TO BITER AND REMAIN

RESIDENCE VISA RECUIRED WHICH MUST EB RENEVED PERIOUICALLY. ALL OCUNTRIES

a=5.

QUERTRO SAID NEG APPLICATION-AT COLSULATE, EXPLANAFION OF FINANCIAL MEANS,

3. HOS SUGGESTS COUNTRIES OF W LIMEREST MIGIFT EE MORE RECIPIIVE TO

AGRICULTURAL AMBITIONS RATHER THAN BUSTNESS CR INDUSTRIAL PURSUITS. " ONCE

MELTIONED HE INTERESTED OPENING CHLOSEN FARY IN CONGO. SPICE H MUST SHON

PLAY FOR EARNING LIVING SUGGEST SIMITAR LINE WITH SAMBRICAN COUNTRY APPROACIED

COOROIMATINE OFFICERS

GROUP 1

RELEASING

OFFICER

S'B.CRET

AUIMENTICATING

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

241-253477

254-1.994

---

## Page 116

14-00000

ORIG :

UNIT.

EXT

DATE :

то :

FROM:

CONF:

INFO:

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SBCR

E T

30?

ROUTING

DIRECTOR

RAGE THO

3i2oo i!

143

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT 6Z236

CITE DIR 27679

FRAN

INFO

LBOP

FOR RESIDENCE VISA FOR HOST SYPATHETIC HEARIO.

40

SHOULD BE STRESSED FROM BONLINUNG THAT ONLY KUBARK CONTACT. AFTER

W SUCCESSFULLE RESETTLED WILL BE LETTER DROP.

"END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT:

*QUERIED SUBU RE FREFERENCE S AMERICAN COUNTRY AND STATED THAT

-TILL GO ANYWHERE ..

41,112.

AF/COPIE

B.R. KORN-PATTERSON

CAF/ 5

ISD COORD

RILEASING OFFICER

COORDINAYING OFFICERS

CROLT I

octadad licen autoratie

arampraced ond

SECRET

doctostlation.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAIN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTMENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy Na

---

## Page 117

14-00000

(U1 pOll!S uoYa)

SECRET

DUMNY CABLE FORM

DATE

STA

1O _

IMFO.

Cà 13l

2x22

ERAN

¿E0G

er CSN: 43-43

MOINEIMSA

othodentdRehets

ACTION

y.igtio

CLASSIFICATION:

TS

KAPOK

CEYBAL

LAURICLE

REF "

SUBJECT.

SECRET

Cr nt H3 1ad

ICAR/

roRua, 9s 586a

PERLA VSTOE USEO

1631

A8 7nca ton reeia

CA62940024

---

## Page 118

4-00000

FiLE

SUD SUI

sHu:

"LIUS 100ST LEANS ORMERICA

21 dal& 1962

DOST DODOTES

1 COnTacied Mr8. VOOTy, M/Il Ups, x 5289, da 304104, 105 1016101

"hey agrood toat, de vas approachine une corroc channel out vero not

..: 1

roBettlonass. an stated ¿hilo 1s out, principally because sor a loreiger

SO OBtaDLIOn A LOgICInEtO DUBineSS in raCe as governaent regulatione 1a

very dulles 1i not 1apo8s1010.

N1th renesdela vaich 19 duso a sore troubled area. are. veery and mr. rarton

• 9613

AM JOUUU1

=o-all-concurred-chat-200.1098-contact,-no matter con-andirect, hed vich Hus=

the Desser 10r all concurled. Mr. subon suggested any payuents nade to alauls

might in done son demand in one an time me can man seeded ce station

OI OTEN EDIS TOBPORAIDALIST. LE MOLA dUSO DE ONE LOSS CILE TO ALEUS CRAS

201-235477

---

## Page 119

SECRET

LO MOGLIDE INVU,! NOTO MODOTLE, MIS. VORTy aCd sarIOvO LatIlo.

MI. LOTIln's tIerpoint vas tiat De coma sot preTent a sondiag LuGUs

to any or

tno countrios, bat ald 1001 some other division Desides ii anoala

NOTO BIALI OROLEO SO 1I VOLLO DOE DA ALIIICILE IOS a IRITLY CLOTOr indITIONA

CO ¡NOnELLy EDe UUO HAa PrODEDLy ¿no CaSO OrZiCerE 12 à statIOn. 1a tblê Caso,

ДОСЕ Да белІ ДІш сО поТе ОД.

Hts. Geory suggested that perhaps Se, sinco they had originally rocrultod

VIROGUE,

should assue such, responsibility. (Ske 1s. hardly reallatle.but.

anything 1s possibla.)

A second suggestion sado by Hr. Duffin is vorth further consideration.

He stated thet Vi has had continual difficulty in establishing contract agente

1n business throughout SA. Hovever, these countries tendod to be much more

rocoptive to peoplo planing agricultural pursuits and he felt reseitlement

and possibility for lirlihood vould be mich greater should WIROGUs approach

-tho-country or countries of hie cholce vith sone agricultural propoaltione

I remember WIFOGUs mentioned that ho had Investigated the possibility of

chicken farming in tho Congo. Such an approach in Sa night (a) make hin more

accoptable as an lunigrant to that country and (D) provide a long tera basis

to make him seli-supporting.

I did promiss to keep It. Dulfin and Nrs. Geery informed of any further

actlons taken converning HIROGUI waich vould affect their area. It vas also

at loast strongly implled that olther Columsla of 3razll might de the best areas,

thougt: the final choico essenilally Ballinon what country VIROGUS cas enter.

---

## Page 120

14-00000

465.

JATE :

241 JU- 62

1C1

DIRECTOR

FROM.

FRANKFURT

ACTION:

SETAF 3.

DUM

CLASSIMIEU MESSAGE

SECRET

INFO

ADDP, C/C1, C/F| 2, CDC, C/EE 3, S/C 200

ROUTING

31

cepa

JUL 24 18407 62

ROUTINE

IN 33838

DIP INFO LEOP CITE FPAN 1854.

BE DIs angss CouT: 57642)774

R.B

ans.byNR

SURJECT PEUSPISE DE POFCEFENCE CALEPICAN CO"TEY AND STATED'

8/9/62

THAT THOUGH ''ILL GO ANYUYEPE ME ABLE FACILITATE LECHLIZNTICN

INCLUDINS CITIZENSHIR ME PREFERS VENEZUELA CHILE OR GODIRIA

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: "ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR ZIBET USED.

**DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT CABLES.

***FOR WIROGUE RESETTLEMENT.

WIROGUE

09099 1 or

SECRET

16118/0:28 M

imitalias.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

211-233477

Cop

No.

---

## Page 121

ROBERT BOUCHARI

ORKG:

UNIT.

EXT • :

DATE :

AE/5

15.6?

503%

19 Ju19 1332

то.

fRANKFURT LEDPOLDYILLE

FROM,

DIRECTOR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SBCRBI

513.

ROUTiNG

pEr ES. 43-49

то

стр.

Масх

23 JuL us

19392

STO CEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

0UT57642

007-57642

CITE DIR

249671964

FRAN

iNFO.

LEOP

BEAT HARVARD TECHST

HIROGUR

REP: A. TRAN 1467 (IN 23745)

B: LEOP 4255 (IN 24232)

*1. -ATTEMPTING DETERMINE SAMERICAN COUNTRY MOST SUITABLE

FOR SUBJECT RELOCATION BUT DIFFICULT WITHOUT BAYING SOME IDBA

HIROGUS PREFERINCE.

wi. 2. AGRIB IT PRINCIPLE PAY TRAVEL COST TO RESETTLET ARRA.

PREFER NOT GIVE LUHP SUN FOR INTERIM EXPENSES PER PARA 3C REF A

AND CONCUR PARA 2 REE B. ANY CASE FINAL DECISION DEPENDS ON ARRA

BELECTED. ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

2-512

AF/5

egarduer

... /88/c

CROUP 1

Leitudasi no curero:"

aeross ons

Влізе. р.

AF/00P94G

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAY THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

661.233÷77

---

## Page 122

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

rx261-29317)

ROUTiNG

ORIG :

UNIT :

EXT

DATE

то ..

FRONA,

DIRECTOR

CONT. ¿/AF 3

ROLERT BOUCHARI

5032

1503

19 July 1883

No Cs liened l'air Itorius.

R1 nie shia muy er indiraire

Branch ming fird se indiedir

23 JUL "

19 39z

OTE DiR

SO PEY

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

GUTE

12

0uт 57.642

24961

• 24964

- FRAN.

NO LBOP

RYBAT HAVARD TECHS HIROGUS.

BSP: A. PRAI 1467 (III 83745)

D. LNOP 4968 (IN 31932)

ROUTING

INITIAL

AN

RID/FI

-8ES

per EST 43-43

#: 1433477

2225120n

---

## Page 123

297

CLASSFIED MESSAGE

SERRET

DATE KNEER

TO •: DIRECTOR

FROM : LECPOLEVILLE.

DESLASITIZED

ACTION: C/EE 2 "

"INFO :

ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC, C/TSD 2, §/AF

por CSM 45te2,

precipe

ROUTING

5

6

JUL 6 1501Z 62

ROUTINE

IN 24232

RIS.

DIR INFO PRAY CITE LEOR MASS

PYPAT

HARVARD TECHS VIROGUE

REF FRAN 148T(23745)-X

P*+5100Eaй

1. NEGE VIROGUE DOCUMENTATION DS PICKED UP AND HELD-AND-THAT T

STEFS BE TAKEN PREVENT HIM RETURNING CONGO PER PARA 2 RESe ME

2. ViEN PAST EXPERIENCE SUSGEST HIPOGUE NOT BE GIVEN LUMP

SUM BÜT THAT FUNDS DE USED AS CARROT AND: DOLED OUT ONCE HE REACHES

RESETTLEMENT AREA•

ii:.

END OF MESSAGE.

C/S COMMENT: "ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR NYXIS USED.

**WIROGUE STATED GERMAN FIRM WHICH KNOWS HIM AS REINER IS INTERESTED IN

SENDING HIM TO CONGO AS BUSINESS REP

QOOTESTEEO

161433477

GRASP 1

Excluded this nitrate

24-22212

REPRODUCTION EY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

+441-4-517-119777211

Copy No.

5-45719

210404

---

## Page 124

TeT XO 10

ZOYSSEH 10 CN3

Ipaped fed terment =

1.53

•3a BOINGV SÜN J&IS30

SO HIS CISION MISSIS 01

3G153&GIN SI MalGO Su min Snour MOird Adis 1ds0 3316l5 Cans

ATEN THE CREAMANO DO GAV 1A2O05 MOSO EAST SHORTE GRO MUNGE

SiLEZ NI

INI INOY

Et-Ct NSs red

2 J/s

14/3

GOr : DINI

: 1023

211:n0d

00000-71

---

## Page 125

14-00000

3.0.25

SOB:

41858

lotion for this cible (all 1467) assunged by this brarch.

Ir. Phelps on German desk said the only restriction on action at

the monent is how much money we, 1/5, are willing to put out.

Next, called r. Kallander, ISD, set 3391. I agreed to contact

him ajain if and when we got down to facts as to just want jocumentation

papers we would renuire.

However, he pointed out trat it wuld first.

be necessary for us to clear such action, le., putting this character:

into a country, with tie area desh involved. Furthermory, he indicated

that this my not be too edy a task erren Rogues be kground, ete:

Once ve get clearance from an area iest, he says ive shuild sit doin

with the area desk, TOD, and 1F/5 to determine the best docurentation

anl method of resettlement.

Oi? Lal BEininger

-50-3137

Clay Callender 80-3391

101-333477

---

## Page 126

520

DATE: 22 JUN 62

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM :

FRANKFURT

ACTION:

S/AF

INFO

:

S/TSD 2, S/C.2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

f. the

ROUTING

2

Сорті

JUN 29 16467 62

ACTION CHANGE

ROUTINE

SOLACHIN

per CSN 43-43

FRAN 1188 IN 15816 A

INFO.

CITE

RIBAT WIROGUE HARVARD TECHS

Goodina

C/S COMMENT: ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM

AF, EXT 5500 KALLANDER, TSD, EXT 3391 IN COORDINATION WITH MR. KORN-PATTERSON,

Пасти• 2144.

RB.

:;

- S-E-CSR-E-$25

FEM BA

arches

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

101-2354771

---

## Page 127

4-00000

CATE :

:

232

22 dix s2

DIRECTOR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

C/ SECRET

FROM :

FRANKFURT

ACTION: : E/TSD2

INFO:

1230, CEL, E/FIa, COC, CRAS GitE 3, S/62

ROUTING

Lớ!

16

JUN 22 1158Z 62

ROUTINE

IN 15816

SITE FEAN LISS

SVE

MISS HARVARD TECHS

-RB

D.M.

DiO iZARE (OUT 947CH)

CIa 15543 lOuT 91968)

C.

FEAN 290.5

CE Fa? 4:

HASVARD NOS INFO CY SOUTH AMERICAN CIT REQUIRE-

MENTS DATED AUG 59. SUBJ HAS NO PREFERENCE SAMERICAN COUNTRY.

BUT DESIDES SO ONLY WHERE WE MELE FACILITATE LEGALIZATION INCLUDING

C. IT 7Z ENSHIP.

ISSUE"CE SERIES A AUSTRIAN PESSPORT, WITH WHICH SUBJ

SHOULD DE DELE OSTAIN OWN TOUPIST VISS, WOULD ALLOW

ENTRY INTO

GIVEN SAMERICAN COUNTRY BUT SOE KUSIRK CONTROL DEVIOUSLY

NECESSARY TA PREVENT SACKCHECKING IF SUBJ INTENDS REMAIN.

PLEASE ADVICE KUBARK CAPABILITIES PREVENT SAMERICAN OFFICIALS

CHECKING A LODENTIC ITY SUSU SACK GRO

EITHER IN GERIANY WITH

-AUSTRIA COUSIATE OP DIRECTLY WITH SUSTRIAN GOVT.

3. WE DVISE SCHE SAMERICAN COUNTRIES ISQUE PASSPORTS FOR

NON CITIZEUS.

COLLE KUBAFK INTERCEDE TO OBTAIN SUCH NON CIT

PASSPORT AFTER SUES HAS ENTERED GIVE" COUNTRY.

END CH MESSAGE

Ess sprana

RSPSCOUCTION BY OTHER PHAN

6a2?1

Exclatat tra rabaati:

SanTana da

SUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

1:1.233477

Copy No.

---

## Page 128

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

ROUTING

4

DATE

10

FROM

ACTION :

INFO

PAGE 2

IN 15516 FRAN 1188

QiE

TO

INFO

C/S COMMENT: "ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUSE INDICATOR AGUATIC USED.

*DIF HARVARD DOES NOT HAVE INFO RE SOUTH AMERiCA CITIZENSHiF FEQUIREMENTS

KURIOT WILL PROVIDE IF FRAM REPORTS COUNTRIES OF. INTEREST.

CheEP 1

s-c.c-H-E-i

detlassificatics

REPRODUCTION BY .OTHER THAN THE ISSUING CFFICE IS PRONIE.:

Copy No.

---

## Page 129

ORIG.

UNIT :

ISD/IB/FS-i

EXT

3391

DATE :

15 June 1962

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SERBT

ROUTING

1502

TO : FRANKFURT

LEOPDIDVILEE

J2l.6

52010r

Т3 37₴

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO :

C/TSD 2:

.n..

DEFERRED

per toni

ADDP, C/C1, C/FI 2, CDC,

C/AF

3, C/EE

13/го сор

X ROUTINE

auberet

74/C4

TO

FRAI

INFO

LEOP.

REF

DIR 15840

PARVARD TECHS

(OUT 91968)

CITE DIR

17406 17406

Don 741.

I HARVARD DOES NOT HAYS INPO RE SOUTE AMERICAN CITIZENSHLP REQUIREMESIS

KURICT WILL PROVIUS IF FRAN REPORIS COUNURTES OF INISREST.

General ma: per34rpd.

END OF MESSAGE

TSD CONNEL

Wul reply re douth American citizenship requiremente

by Teles.

CoK

c/a/c/aps B111 Pkelps, by phone

c/AF/OPS

Paul Springer, by phone (K

SIDNSY

GO

A CHIMP,

RELEASING OFFICER...

DXSEN57E3

CHABLES J:

RYAN

ASS'IC/ISD/AUTE

COO GO MA PER BON 1S 43

AUTMENTICATINO OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No

161.23÷477

=ou-2.

---

## Page 130

wilfam w. Phelps

ORIG :

UNIT :

•EXT

DATE :

EE/G/Ops

7858

8 Juge 1962

TO : FRANKFURT

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

70)

003

LEOPOLDVILLO

CONF,

INFO:

Daura

sile

ADOP, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC, C/TSD 2, CFAR 3343/c 2

DEFERRED

X ROUTINE

0u791968

FRAN

'INFO LEOP

RYBAT WIROGUE HARVARD TECHS

CITE DIR

15840

REF FRAN 0805 (IN 46446)

1. CONCUR PARA 2.

2. RE NEW AUSTPIAN DOC, WILLING AGREE IF THIS BEST

SOrE SOLUTION, BUT REQUEST EXAMINE QUESTION WHETHER BACK-

STOPPED FREMDENPASS WOULD NOT SERVE AS VEHICLE FOR EMIGRATION

WILL REPLY

FROM FEDREP WHILE AVOIDING PROBLEMS PARA 1 REF

RE SOUTH ANIERICAN CITIZENSHIP REQUIREMENTS BY TELEX WAX WEEK

OF 11. JUNE:

AF is rip. for this

END OF MESSAGE

EE/ COPS

ALRASINO OPPICIA

/AF/OPS (Mr. Springer phone)

L. T3D (Mr. Boerniger. phone)

CocontiNo ones

SE CHEMI

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

E5/G/Opg

AUTMENTICATINO OPPICES

Copy No.

H÷9347

---

## Page 131

ORIG:

wiliam W. Phelps

UNIT :

EE/G/Opis

EXT

7858

DATE: 8 June 1962.

TO : FRANKFURT

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

117

3|

• LEOPOLDVILILO

CONF:

INFO :

C/EE. 3

ADDP, C/C1, C/F| 2, CDC, C/TSD 2,.

/AR, 5/C2

quiet

DEFERRED

X ROUTINE

0U791.968

TO

FRAN

RYBAT WIROGUE HARVARD TECHS

• INTO LEOP

VEOLA

per bull 43-42

hall for

CITE DIR

15810

REF. FRAN 0805 (IN 46446)

1. CONCUR PARA 2.

2. RE NEW AUSTRIAN DOC, WILLING AGREE IF THIS BEST

SOY. SOLUTION, BUT REQUEST EXAMINE QUESTION WHETHER BACK-

STOPPED FREMDENPASS WOULD NOT SERVE AS VEHICLE FOR EMIGRATION

FROM FEDREP WHILE AVOIDING PROBLEMS PARA 1 REF. WILL REPLY

RE SOUTH AMERICAN CITIZENSFIP REQUIPEMENTS BY TELEX VRE WEEK

OF 11 JUNE.

END OF MESSAGE

EE/ COPS

RELEASINO DESI

* AF/OPS (Mr. Springer phone)

1 TSD (My. - Boerniger phone)

COOlOMATINO OMICIE

EE/G/Ops

AUTMENTICATINO OFFICIA

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

201-235477

• =3.

---

## Page 132

14-00110

566

DATE: FUN 62

: DIRECTOR

FROM : FRANKFURT

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEGRET,

7 лі-під

Dece Spang (5571,

Baizruing TSD

ACTION:

C/LE 3

INFO :

ADOP, C/CI, C/F8 2, COC, C/TSO 2, C/AF 3,S/C 2

ROUTING

2

31

MN 5 2046z 62

ROUTINE

iN 46446

DIR INFO LEOP CITE FRAN 0885

RYBAT VIROGUE HARVARD TECHS

ANS, by up

SUBJECT NOT ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT " GERMAN DOCLMENTATION UNLESS

POLITICAL RECOGNITION FOLLOUS. "BELIEVE FABRICATION LIFE HISTORY

IN ORDER OBTAIN

I RECOGNITION TOO RISKY IN THIS CASE SINCE SLIGHTEST

FLAP COULD. PLACE NUBARK IN EMBARRASSING POSITION VIS A VIS

FEDREP AUTHORITIES AND ODIBEX LIAISON

2. INTEND RETURN AUSTRIAN PASSPORT AND IDENTITY PAPERS AS

TEMPORARY MEASURE PERMIT SUBJECT CARRY OUT ASSIGNED TASKS FOR CONGOLESE

DEFMIN AND RETURN CONGO IN ORDER FORMALLY ABROGATE CONTRACT WITH

GOC. WILL' INFORM SUBJECT NO KUBARK EMPLOYMENT AVAILABLE BUT WE

WILLING REDOCUMENT HIM WITH AUSTRIAN OR OTHER PASSPORT IN NAME

DAVID DE PANASKHET, WHICH HE CONSIDERS HIS TRUE NAME.

HE vILL

KNOW NEW DOCUMENTATION WILL BE HELD IN ABEYANCE PENDING HIS

=542 =

RETURN FRAN.

3. SUBJECT HAS STATED DESIRE RESETTLE IN SOUTH AMERICA.

UNDERSTAND PASSPORT WOULD PROBABLY BE BACKCHECKED WITH COUNTRY

OF ISSUE SHOULD SUBJECT DECIDE REQUEST PERMANENT RESIDENCY OR

CITIZENSHIP IN SOUTH AMERICAN COUNTRY.

REQUEST. HEADQUARTERS

• ...

6397 1

SECRETS"

4 torz:09:

S39N0T2S 211

DEDONMInTInA DU ATUSO THAN THE ISSILING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

101.233477

Copy No.

---

## Page 133

14-00000

"...

• FRAN OÕO5

CLASSIFLED MESSAGE

566

L SECRET 1

IN 46446 PAGE 2

GUIDANCE RE CITIZENSHIP REQUIREMENTS IN VARIOUS SCUTH AMERICAN

COUNTRIES AND ADUISABILITY OF ISSUING NEY AUSTRIAN PASSPORT.

REQUEST REPLY PRIOR COB I JUNE:

END OF MESSAGE

---.,30973

#d492372

DFDOADUCTINU AY ATUFO!

-SECRET

DELICE IS DONHIRITEN

---

## Page 134

DATE

TO

:

ACTION:

INFO :

566

Griers 62

CLASSIFIED NESSAGE

SEGRET,

DIRECTOR

FRANKFURT

C/LE 3

per CS:l 43-43

ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, COC, C/TSD 2, C/AF 3,5/C2°

ROUTING

WN 5 2046z 62

ROUTINE

IN 46446

DIR INFO LEOP SITE FRAN 0885

RYBAT VIROGUE HARVARD TECHS

R.B.

SUBJECT NOT ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT W. GERMAN DOCUMENTATION UNLESS

* POLITICAL, RECOGNITION FOLLOWS. BELIEVE FABRICATION LIFE HISTORY

IN ORDER OBTAIN RECOCNITION TOO RISKY IN THIS CASE SINCE SLIGHTEST

FLAP COULD PLACE KUBARK IN EMBARRASSING POSITION VIS A VIS

FEDREP AUTHORITIES AND ODIBEX LIAISCN.

2. INTEND RETURN AUSTRIAN PASSPORT AND IDENTITY PAPERS AS

TEMPORARY MEASURE PERMIT SUBJECT CARRY OUT ASSIGNED TASKS FOR CONGOLESE.

DEFMIN AND RETURN. CONGO IN ORDER FORMALLY ABROGATE CONTRACT WITH

"GOC. WILL

INFORM SUBJECT NO KUBARY EXPLOYMENT AVAILABLE BUT WE

WILLING REDOCUMENT HIM WITH AUSTRIAN OR OTHER PASSPORT IN NAME

DAVID DE PANASKHET, WHICH HE CONSIDERS HIS TRUE NAME. HE WILL

NOW NEW DOCUMENTATION WILL BE HELD IN ABEYANCE PENDING HIS

RETURN FRAN.

3. SUBJECT HAS STATED DESIRE RESETTLE IN SOUTH AMERICA.

UNDERSTAND PASSPORT WOULD PROBABLY BE BACKCHECKED WITH COUNTRY

OF ISSUE SHOULD SUBJECT DECIDE REQUEST PERMANENT RESIDENCY OR

CITIZENSHIP IN SOUTH AMERICAN COUNTRY. REQUEST HEADQUARTERS

GROUP 1

SEGRET

Exclades tray autocutie

85795701135 118

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

wi2$ü4?}

Copy No.

---

## Page 135

FRAN 08O5

CLASSLEJED MESSEGE

566

SEGRET IN 26415- PAGE 2

GUIDANCE RE CITIZENSHIP REQUIREMENTS IN VARIOUS SOUTH AMERICAN

COUNTRIES AND ADVISABILITY OF ISSUING NEV AUSTRIAN PASSPORT.

a REQUEST REPLY PRIOR COB 1I JUNE.

END. OF MESSAGE

incorrent:

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER

SERFT

ISSUING

OFFICE IS PROHIBITED-—

A009 20 970e)

---

