# 104-10048-10124

## Page 1

1704-10048-10124

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CUASSIFICATION

TO

Chief, Spec161A447

INFO.

LA SPECIAL COLLECITO

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

FROM

PROCESSING

ACTION

MMARKED FOR INDEXINO

NO INDEXIMO REQUIREO

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN JYOGE INDEXIMO

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

PLISHED

Chief of Station, JMNAVE

TYPIC/OPERATIONAL

Special Activities Report on WAYa's RelatIonship with ANCARBON-1

AETION REQUIRED, REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED:

Paragraph 10

REFERENCES

A.

HAVE 8981,

dated

24 September 1962 Mi Miren a d-4

B.

HAVE 9169,

dated

c.

28 September

1962 no rjee to deig

D.

HAVE 9343,

dated

2 October 1962 mu, ul li sel

DIR 40975

dated 6 October 1962n0 Judai"

VEGA 14417, dated 4 March 1964-10 Made,

INTRODUCTION.

In Reference E,

JMNAVE forwarded & review

of the nature of Its

relationship with

AMCARBON -2.

Thia review

indicates .that the relationship with AlCARBON-2 evolved from

action which was taken in September 1962 to insure that a security

breach would not occur as a result of an investigation which was

being carried out by the identity I relative to the lact that the

establishment of the Identity 2 was being kept from the YOBELT

South Campus as a result of security restrictions which were in some

way, related to JuDUSK.

While the relationship with AMCARDON-2

stemmed from the remedial action which had been taken in a crisis

identito,

the establishment of a working relationship with the

an objective which JYAVE had always hoped to obtain.

is a matter of fact, in Reference A,

the recommendation was made

that JIVAVE be given approval to contact the major south alorida

news media in an attempt to work out a relationship with these news

media which would insure that they did not turn the publicity

spotlight on those KUBARK activities In South Florida which might

come to their attention. retsily cultivated in order that JAVAVI

when a relationship was established

w1th AMCARBON-2, It was

use this contact at the Identity 3 as a means of

achleving the objective of having a relationship with the Identity 3,

which would simultaneously insure the security of JMlAVE's operationg

and give JMWAVE an outlet into the press which could be used

surfacing certain select propaganda 1tens.. In the perlod October to

(CONTINUED)

Attachments:

A - Five Nevspaper Clippinga

B - Identities

Distribution:

3 - Chief, SAS, M/atts.

¡ CÃOSS REFERENCE TO

DATE TYPED

APR 2 H

ATE DISPATCHED

19 March 64

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-14781

GROUP 1

HEADOUARTERS FILE NUMBER

Excluded troro automalic

doractating ead

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

201-

OfFICE

COS

ORIGINATING

OFFICER

Andrew K.

TYPIST

REUTEMAN/vtp

COORDINATING

251

# - RI Chrono

201 111e (0/COS)

OFFICE SYMBOL

1 - COS Chrono

DATE

OFFICER'S NAME

D002244

ESEC

DUDLEY R.

EYE, TILLINGS

RELEASING

OFFICE SYMBOL

OFFICERS SIGNATURE

LOS/ JMWA VEL

ON 53

USE PREVIOUS EDMON, REPLACES TORM BIOS MIH MAY BE USEO.

110) MAR 3 1 1968

---

## Page 2

13-00000

"CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLABSIFIEATION

SECRET

•ПОА ОРНАМО ОФІ ОШАТИ

UFGA - 11781

all of shAVE's business with the Identity 3

In mid-December 1902, AMCARDON-2

made the suggestion that he introduce RCUTEMAN to

in order that thero be a backup contact,

in the evont that

ANCARbON were out of town or unavailable at such times as

RaUNchaN might require assistance from the Identity 3.

agreed to AMCARBON-2'8

ind, as & result,

hosted & luncheon on 12 December

Bugbest1011062 at the Miami Club in the

Hotel Columbus,

at which ANCARBON-2 Introduced

result of this initial meeting on

an operational relationship has

developed with

to the fulfillment of the over-all JYAVE mission.

this, a special activities report is being submitted to cover the

nature of IMTAVE!&

relationship with AMCARBON-1 during the

period December. 1962 to Márch 1964.

FRAME OF REFERENCE FOR JAYAVE'S RELATIONSHIP WITH AHCARDON-1.

ANCARSON-2 Introduced ANCARLON-I tO INUICAN, ANCAIEON-Z

reviewed the ground rules under which he had been cooperating

w1th REUTEMAN.

This review was conducted for AlCARboN-1's

benefit, in order that he might clearly understand the frame of

reference. which should prevail in his relatlonships with REUTENAN.

In this review, AMCArbON-? pointed out that it was the policy

of the Identity s that it would take no action which would

purposely embarrags KUBARk or its South Florida operations. As

• a result, if any embarrassing 1tems relative to KUBARK'& operations

•In South Florida did come to the attention of the Identity 3, this

material would be brought to REUTEMAN's immediate attention.

AMCARBON -2 made it clear to AMCARBON-1 that such items should be

discussed with REUTIMAN In & frank manner.

In addition,

the point that,

after an Item was discussed, AUCARBON-1

should follow REUTILAN'S guidance relative

to how any particularly

embarrassing item might be handled by the Identity 3,

would not expose KUBArK operations and, at the same time, would

not jeopardize the journalistic reputation of the Identity 3.

In addition, AMCARDON-2 pointed out that,

1I AMCARBON-1 brought

a potentially embarrassing item to REUTENAN's attention and

remedial action on the matter was not taken, by REUIELlAN within

• reasonabLe period of time.

then the Identity 3 would feel free

to expose any ineptness on KUBARK's part.

AMCARBON-2 pointed

out that in return for this cooperation fron the Identity 3,

REUTELAN had agreed that he would be avallable for contact by

telephone or periodic personal meetings at which AMCARPON-1

and ANCARBON-2 could discuss broad trends and developmenta in

Latin American affairs.

ANCARBON-2 advised ANCARBON-1 that this

arrangement did not mean that ANCARBON-1 could expect to obtain

any classifled information frOM REUTIMAN.

The point nas also

made that AMCARBON-1 should not press for the obtaining of

classifled information, but he should be alert to steering tips

which REUTEMAN might furnish him on fast-breaking news storios.

ANCAREON-1 Indicated that he understood the frame of reference

which had been outlined by AMCARBON-2.

This frame of reference

has prevalled throughout JYAVE's relatlonship with AMCAREON-1

during the perlod December 1962 to March 1964.

AMCARBON-1'S JOURNALISTIC CANNER.

ANCARBON-1 originally

started to work for the identity 3 in 1951 on the City Desk,

and subsequently advanced from this assignment to an assignment

which entailed covering major political developments in Florida.

At a later date, ANCARBON-1 became a feature writer for the

Identity 3.

Then In July or August 1962,

AMCARBON -1 way made

the Identity f.

Thia assignment was considered to be a significant

CORM

3.80

(10)

530

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CI IBSIFICATION

LEALIT

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

2.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

DISPATCH.

GEOR-IT

SEGA -14781

promotion for ANCARBON-1

and 1t reflected confidence in him by

the Identity 3 management.

ANCARBON -1 Is by no means an expert

on Latin America, but he 1s developing his knowledge on the area

and, at the moment, he gives every indication of wanting to be a

Jong-term Latin American specialist.

QDELT has been questioned

about AMCARBOn-l; and he has indicated that AMCARBON-1 la regarded

1n the journallatic trade as an extremely likeable fellow who has

& keen mind but who

Lacks experience in depth on Latin American

affairs.

It 1s ADELE's opinion that given an appropriate lapse

of time, ANCARBON-1 will develop into one of the leading Latin

American specialists In U.S. Journallatio circles.

has a working command of Spanish, and he 18

constantly attempting

to improve big language fluency.

It 18 RUTIMAN'& opinion

AMCARBON-1 has developed rapidly as a Latin American specialist,

and he will continue to grow in this field.

who should be developed

and harnessed for

exploitation, bearing

In mind that he does have long-term potential.

AMCARBON-1'S CONTACTS AND SOURCES.

In keeping with the

traditional pattern of source protection which is common to

newspapermen,

Intelligence officers and law enforcement officers,

ANCARBON -1 attempta to guard the true identity of all of his

ANCAREON-1 has identified

On the other hand, when pressed, that meaningful evaluations

his sources to REUTEMAN,

In order

could be made of that information which AMCARBON-l had passed to

KUBARK.

As a result of these occasional witting identifications

of his sources, and,

as a result of general conversations with

ANCARBON -1,

the folloring persons:

REUTEMAN has learned that ANCARBON-l's sources include

of the DRE.

A. Lula *FINANDEZ RoCha (201-316766), secretary general

b. Manolo *RAY Rivero (201-239298), chief Of JURE.

CarIos *TODD y Lobo (201-264141) of the defunct

Havana Ilmes.

d. AMBIDDX-1 (201-267437)

e. Aureliano *SANCHEZ Arango (201-019245), leader of the AAA

1.. Edmund #LEAHY of the Washington News Bureau.

AMCARBON-1

regards this source as being particulaIly Interesting.

in view

of the fact that LEAHY's daughter 1a a secretary in the ojiice oi

Attorney General Robert KENNEDY.

Frank *FIORINI (201-242256), free-lance pilot and

adventurer.

h. Eduardo *SUAREZ Riva, public relations man for the urR.

1.. Luis *MUNOZ Marto, governor of Puerto Rico.

I.

Juan *BOSCH Gavino (201-103272), former president of

the Dominican Republic.

I. Charles *KEELY of the Copley Wire Service.

•USIA In Miami.

ALCARBON •1 15 well aware of the

defacto stringer for Tad SZULC of the New York Times, but this

not deter ANCARBON-1 from attempting to exploit VOLSKY as a

source of information.

ORM

530

UBE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

STARET

PAGE NO.

CONTINUED

---

## Page 4

13-00000

OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.

to carry out certain oporational support tasks..

On occasion, AMCARBON-1 18 used

In such instances,

ANCARBON-1 makes his inquiries or carries out the required action

within the context of his normal journalistic activitles.

USe OI ANCARBON-1 for operational support tasks enables JMlAVE to

harness the investigative facilitles of the Identity 3.

Several

uxamples of how AlCARBON-1 has been used in operational support

tasks are outlined below:

'Andrew ORDONO Camps.

' In March 1963

•Camps, DPOB 30 September 1914,

Andrew *ORDONO

In Miami and yas given routine CAC processing.

Cibara, Cuba, A The detalis of this

processing are contained in MIAM-0085,

dated 12 March 1903.

& sensational story was developed.

In view of this story,

tried to locate ORDONO for debrieling.

This effort was not productive,

thUS ANCARBON-1 was asked to locate OrDONO.

ORDONO in Houston, Texas. See WAVE-6307, dated 25 March 1963, for

details.

In UFGH-2555, dated 13 September 1963,

Discrediting Carlos BANDIN of the HRR Splinter Group.

Headquarters suggested that

JMYAVE might

be able to discredit Carlos BANDIN Cruz (201-309611)

of the MRR splinter group as & result of BANDIN'a overinflated clalms

relative to his faction Invading Cuba.

Headquarters' interest in

discrediting BANDIN was also stimulated by the fact that BANDIN's

Irresponsible publicity stunts were causing problems for AMBIDDY-1.

Ag'a result of Headquarters' interest in this matter,

REUTEMAN had

& luncheon session with AlCArBoN-l on 24 september 1963, at which

AMCARBON-1 was advised that the BANDIN faction of the MRR was. less

than accurate in its claims relative to its activities in Cuba.

In view of this, REUtiMAn suggested that the Identity 3 might want

to soft peddle any future war communiques which the BANDIN faction

might release.

AMCARBON-I stated that, in view of REUTEMAN ' s

comments, the

Identity 3 would not only soft peddle, but would

ignore

the BANDIN faction in the future.

Once BANDIN was discreditad

with AMCARBON-1, the word was soon leaked by AMCARBON-1 to otber

newspapermen that BANDIN was not a reliable source.

As a result

of this action, the BANDIN group has received minimal media coverage

In South Florida since September 1963.

6.

OPERATIONAL INTELLIGENCE.

In the period February 1963

to February 1964, AICARBON-1 has jurnished JWAVE With operational

Intelligence as outlined below:

AMCARBON -1

reported that AMBIND=l was back in Hiami and was

In MAys 4836, dated 21 February 19s the object of

a great deal of press interest in view of AMBIND-l's release from

& Havans prison.

' AMCARBON-1 also Indicated that AHBDND-1 would

probably be & knowledgeable source on the current activities of the

UR in Cuba.

This operational Intelligence was most helpful in

terms of keeping JMVAVE Informed on AMBIND-l's movements.

Subsequent

developments revealed that ANCAREON-1 could not contact AMBEND-1

and thus AMBIND-l's return to the United States did not cause the

publlalty stir. that was inttially anticipated.

In WAVE 6176,

dated 22 March 1963,

reported that the Identity 3 was attempting to research & full

The intent of this

feature article on the Bay of Pigs Invas1o"the entire taotical

¡article was to furnish a recapitulation of

In this consection, AlCARBON-I pointed out that he was

FORM

8.60

110)

530

(UBE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLABSIFICATION

-57C-A-5

CONTINUES

PAGE NO.

4.

---

## Page 5

13-00000

thinking about exposing the role of lland attorney Alexn i *CArLsON,

Tos1d1ng 115 Curtiss Parkway, Mant Spriage, FlOFT CÁRLSON were

ay of Pigs operation. ANCARBON-1 stated that,

then the Identity 3 would

soft peddle the CARLSON angle.

be had no interest in CARLSON

but knew of him and was of the

opinion that CARLSON was & sound and honest attorney.

The receipt

of this operational intelligence enabled JAWAVI. to brief CARLSON

on the Identity. 3's over-all interest in the role that CARLSON had

played in the Bay of Pigs invasion.

1n ture,

enabled CARLSON to more adequately prepare himsoll

This briellag, for a meeting

with AlCARBON-1.. Phile AMCARBON-1 did attempt to pursue this

Bay of pigs story, he never did put anything into print as the story

was overtaken by other developments before AUCARBON-1 could finish

his research.

In. WAVE 0904,

dated 9 July 1963,

AMCARBON-1 advised

530

This information enabled

which might be appearing relative to Soviet missiles in Cuba.

d.: In' WAVE 4701, dated 20 September 1963, AMCARBON-1

gave JWAVE his resume of

the discussions which he

had with

ÄLBIDDY-1 at the hiant Playboy Club on 19 September 1963.

Information was useful in obtaining an insight into what AMBIDDY-1

was telling: the press.

dated 10 October 1963,

AMCARBON -1

reported on & discussion

In YAYS 566)fhst he had had on 10 October 1963 with

AMBIDDY-l's public relations man.

This operational intelligence

was useful in terms of keeping KUBARK advised as to what AMBIDDY-I's

representatives were telling the outside world about their

operational activities.

In WAVE 6910,

dated 31 October 1963,

informed JMHAVE about the

AMCARBON-1

flood of telephone calls which were

being received at the Identity 3 relative to so-called KUBARK

vessels which were located in South Florida waters.

Information alerted IMlAVE to the fact that press

going to be directed toward the Identity 5.

Armed with this warn-

JAve was. able to take action thich minimized the publicity

repercussions from & renewed press interest in the Identity 5.

In WAVE 7671, dated 16 November 1963, AMCARBON-1

reported

to JWAVE the fact that he had received

& letter from

Peru which contained an interesting operational lead to one

Carlos MONTALVANO in Puno, Peru.

This lead was examined by JuVAVE,

Headquarters and the Lima Station.

This examination revealed

there was no

that the letter was written by a crackpot; thu locident did underscore

real operational potential in this lead.

the fact that ANCARBON-1 is willing to bring potentially significant

operational leads to JAVAVE's attention.

dated 6 February 1964, AMCARBON-1

idvised JUWAVE that he had received numerous telephone calls

indicating that Armando Andres GUIROLA Forte, "ho

had defected

from a Cuban Iishing vessel might be an individual who had previously

been seen in Miami during November or December 1963.

time, AlCArson-I pointed out that he was suspicious

these telephone calls indicated that GUIROLA was not a bona

but was either a GOC agent or a KUbark plant,

to be me eating en seedent which would

embarrass the GOC, as a result of their fishing boats penetrating

LUOR PREVIOUA EDITION.

GLABBIFICATION

STARET

CONTINUID

PAOR NO.

5.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

FORM

3-60

(40)

530

United States terrorial waters.

REUTENAN si. Ised AMCARDON-1

that KUBARK had played no role in mounting a provocation operation

against the GoC.

it the sane time

at was highly unlikely that CUrROLA was a GOc agent. out art

As a result

of this conversation, arrangements were made for SAVE to check

out certain aspects

of the GuIRoLa story.

At the same time,

ANCARBON-1 was prevalled upon not to wilte a story which might

lead the public to speculate on whether GUIROLA was an

agent or. a

plant 11 a propaganda play designed to embarrass the GoC.

PROPAGANDA OUTLET.

AMCARBON-I has been used successfully,

during the period oovered by this report,

as & propaganda outlet

chrough which items of interest to KUBARK could be surfaced in

the free world press.

In this fiold are outlined below:

Examples of how ANCARBON-I has been harnegsed

The AMCRAB-1 defection story originally

las Americas, which played up an Apt release from dontevideo.

The API Montevideo story highlighted AMCRAB-1'g information

relative to GOC activities In Uruguay.

The story in the Diarlo

de las Americas' had an extremely

limited impact on Spanish readers

In the Mian1 arer. As a result, it was decided to do a series

of feature stories on AMCRAB-1, pointing up the fact that AMCRAB-1

was typical of the veterans of the Granma expedition, who felt

they had been betrayed by CASTRO and had been relegated to positions

of obscurity once the revolution had put CASTRO in power.

AMCARBON -1

was briefed in detall on the AMCRAB-l story, and he was given an

• opportunity to debrief AMCRAB-1 under controlled conditiong in a

JANAVE safehouse.

After completing his debriefiag, ANCARDON-I

vrote a series of feature articles on AMCRAB-1.

The first article

In the series received front page headline play. The series of

articles on AMCRAB-1 were well written, and they provided an

excellent peg for JMVAVE to mount a replay operation via other

propaganda assets... AlCARBON-l's story on AMCRAB-1 was picked up

API and others, and it was played throughout Latin Anerica.

The details of this

surfacing can be found in WAVE 5826,

14 October 1963; WAVE 6092, dated 19 October 1963; and,

HAVE 6174,

dated 21 October 1963.

JHAVE learned that when ur. Charles chitriNg

b.: Charles GRIFFIN Shrimp Boat Stor sons went to Cuba

On 26 February 1964,

they found that

turned over

to them.

It was belleved that this Information would make a good

human interest story which JMYAVE assets could use to counter GOC

propaganda claims that United states officials had stolen items

the Cuban fishing boats which had violated United States

territorial waters.

In view of this opinion, a steering tip was

given to AMCARION-l to have the Identity 3 representative in

Key West Interview Mr. GRIFFIN.

This interview was carried out,

and an articlo outlining the points which were of interest to

JAYAVE was published in the 27 February 1964 edition of the

Identity 3.

LAYC Story.

The March 1964 LAXC meeting

in santiago,

Chile,

was not recelving appropriate coverage

South Florida

newspapers; as & result,

REUTENAN contacted AMCARBON-1 on 5 March

1964 and suggested that

the InYC meeting was a story which the

Identity 3 should pursue task of preparing the story on the laYo

AMCARBON-1 was grateful for this steering

tip, and he assigned the

to one of the members of his staff.

A story on the LAYC was

subsequently published in the 6 March 1964 edition of the Identity 3

(COMMENT: Coples of the articles cited in subparagraphs & through

c above are attached for Headquarters Information.)

UBE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLABBIFICATION

THEORRY

CONTINUED

PACE NO.

6.

---

## Page 7

13-00000

8.

POSITIVE INTELLIGENCE.

Attempts have been made to

obtain

disseminable positive intelligence from AMCARBON-1 during

the period covered by

this report.

This attempt has beon generally

InSUCCESSIUL,

in that AMCARBON -1

does not have a great number of

contacts in latin America who would give him access to worthwhile

intelligence

apprecinbly in advance of the

information appearing

in the overt press.

As a result, ANCARBON-1 1s usually not awnie of lin

Inside developments in any Latin

American country: consequently,

he 1s not a worthwhile source of positive Intelligence.

Ag a

matter of fact,

AMCARBON-1 1s less valuable as a source of positive

Intelligence than most Journalists.

this is attributable sololy

to bis lack of long-standing contacts in the Latin American politica)

scene.

It is belleved that AMCARBON-1 will ultimately overcono

this shortcoming;

thus, we will continue to attempt to harness him frr

the collection of positive intelligence.

9.

has been found to be a straight-forward Individual who

COMNI. In the period covered by this reportis honest,

ANCARDON -1

cooperative. and who understands the need for security.

relationship also indicates that AMCARBON-1 1s an accurate reporter

of that information which he passes to KUBARK.

JMNAVE plans to: continue to harness ANCARBON-1 In the same mannor

that he has been usod in the past.

tionship with AMCARBON-1 enhances our ability

operational mission in & secure

ship

ateoda to some the cursinanty that date migat a ve atten-

culties with the media outlets In the South Florida area:

result of our continuing relationship with ANCARBON-1

activities report will be forwarded at appropriate intervals.

It is requested that & 201 number be assigned AMCARBON-1

and that JAVE be advised of the number.

END OF DISPATCH

530

UBE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASBIFICATION

SECREI

CONPINUED

7.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

DISPATCH

SLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DIE

ICH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

Separate Cover Attachneit

B to UFGA-14781

Identitles - 1 - The Miami News

2 - Sunland Training Center for

Retarded Children

3 - The Miami Herald

4 - Latin American Editor

5 - The LEDA

DISTRIBUTION :

3 -

Chief,

: SAS

1. - RI Chrono

1 - AMCARBON-1 201

1 - COS Chrono

GROUP 1

excladed from sulamstic:

Juni rading and

330

U-a pRAVIONA sOITION.

CLASSIFICATION.

SECRET

D002244

PAGE NO.

CONTINUED

---

