# 104-10183-10276

## Page 1

104-10183-10276

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

•Ops

19 June 1964

MEMURANDUN FOR: Chilo?, WH/SA/EI

VIA

SUBJECT

Chief. WH/PO/A

• :

ANMUG/1.Operution

Targot Analyals and Non-furlacablo Leada

1.

äeierence is made to your memorandum date 16 June 1964

reyuesting Target Analysis Summary Reports on leads to be

exploitod and lists of those leads which the Branch desires

not to bo gurfaced to the Intelligence community.

2. Attached are separate lists for each appropriate

Central American and Caribbean country detailing nationals

of each country whose names have been mentioned or otherwise

cropped up during the debrleling of Abluü/l.

#li/? considers,

at this time,

that 1t 1s not feasible nor desirable to gurface

any of these leads to the intelligence connunity, pending a

final determination as to the feasibillty of pursuriny sone

of these leads for operational exploitation.

Thoga Leade

which are determined to be

of no operational potential *ill be

released to your office on a continuiny basis for surfacing

to appropilata agencios.

3. Attached also are seven comploted Targot analys18

Summary Reports on:

a) FrancIsco jarlor MBLI Pena

•b) JaIne DURAN liernando

1.c) Socrates ISAiRS PEGUSRO Sehuroes

• d)

(91.. 0)

Jean NOrbert MONTERO

MaUrICiO do la SELVA Venogas

ROruA DALTUN GarCIa

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-2-

re.

8) Noel GUERAZRO Santiago

These Individuals reprosent inmediate targotg on whor re

have already undertaisen action.

fe anticipato that certain

selected other individuals frow the lists citod in

•paragraph one above w1ll becone targets, and accordlagly,

are in the process of exanining and investigating those.

As these individualy are culled through, Targot Analyal

Summary Reports shall be prepared and forwarded to yow

office.

26

(John M. Mbitten)

c/N11/2

Attachments:

Target Analysis Summary Reports

ANNUG/1 Leads Not to be

Disseminated

WH/PD/A (w/atts)

3 - 111/2 (w/atts)

1/pV

---

## Page 3

14-00000

cominican Requillo Loads hot do be Misseniatod

19u01 operation

Francisco darter hildl long

Jalro DORAN Hercando

Socratos Isaiss PiDUEN Schuroer

''piado RUIL finds 1a an allas al "TIM?O%" - tro name st111 not knowa)

DaVId ODOLLO ESPAILIAT COMpOS

FrancisCO leNtAriO RAOS POSUO.O

Francisco alizardo RAKoS Peguero

Teresa Inaconcia iSPAILLAI lemardes

Jaso Bienrenido GUsitA fiouol

Hoctor lucasto CARRAl, Orto ja

Leopoldo Ariosto SHUITON Aula

SilvaDo LUZA Viconta

Ilandor zanoni SiIIi colmonto

Ana Mercadas SPIrilL da Castio

Baldeniro L59ã) Garcia

Marcolino GRiMID" Jinonez

POnItO ALiNO GOraR

MOrgo BOTaO Fernandos

Rafael Francisco TAVaUS iosario

Haro ToTIS jarcas

Caratano ArRanto INDULONE: Del imado

---

## Page 4

14-00000

-

?...

-2-

Antario Balllo J0n0 Iil Condo

51202 BOLIVAR

ArtarO RAPDel iSPAILLAI iOdrigUes

Carcon B. HESXAUDD37 do Paxaa

Ernesto LOP52, salina

MATIÃO LOPEZ MOlLAS

---

## Page 5

14-00000

detaitis

-X

il Salvador Loads Not to bo Dissoalnalod

117:00/ Operatlon

1 ROberto BERCINO FArLA GUERRILLA UNAiACE TRAINING OMiY

V EBal ForDando 3500317 Malando: GUiRRULA MATTARi ARAINE iNY

" CArLOS AlDATtO FLORES HerRaDdOZ GUERRILLA WARFARE ARAIUNG COLY X

JURO RETOR LOZAIO 1OSAL00 ALIAS IF RIBERTO BENCIANO MAIN

CArLOS MARTINEZ ONLIS DEAD - GUERALUN MARFARE PRALINE ONLY

RICardO AUgUStO MOTINEZ VanOÇaS GUERRILLA UNAFARE TRANNE iNtY

VIvan DeRIO MODUGUS ICON GUFARILA UNRFARE ARALING. GULY X

O Lisandro RUIRE SOliS GUERRILA WARFURE PRAININE COLY X

POLTO IODRIGUSZ GUERNILLA LANFAXE IRAININE OULY

1 Victor Maral SANCHEZ BORIlLA GUFALA MAREANE PRANNE daLY

/ ATTUTO ALPARO FOGATES GUERRILA LUREARE PANINING ONLY

Faul ACtOniO VARIAS GUERRILLA LANFARE PRAININO IRLY

ROQUO DALION Garcia

Manuel datOnio CALERO COF AMILA MARTARO PERLINO A ENTRENNENI

JOSA SAlVACOI ROSALOS GUERNILLA UNFAKE IRAININE INLY

~ Frodoy Guerra

GUENRICA LIREARE PEARUNG CANY

É JOSO ANTONIO GLICIA RITETS SULÁNILA LUANENNE PRALIRE LALY X

---

## Page 6

14-00000

C..!

• 2 .

POdIO SALACENZ CAStrO GUERRILLA CANTANE MANILIEG URLY :X

VRaben MARTI, Quardado CENRILLA MARTINE PRAINE CALY

? Gaul Concopaion Moralos NO REGIRA iN AUMUCI (APEX ANISA)"

~ JOSa MANCIA Martines GUiKANLA LAHTANÉ IRANING CELY

~ JESUS AntariO PAZ GUERRILLA UNEFARE rAdiniNE

RICO RAMIREZ GUERRILLA LINKFARE TRAINE ORLY

-ZOdIa SHOTALOTOIRE ALIAS OF JESUS ANTARIO POSZ

? Raul castallanos.

parante. e

TA (TOMAS QUERZA RIVal) 20, EZ YI SiLJOBACENT

02

Jose ManIto GUETA Canad) 201 (36-25178.

SECHET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SEGUET

Customala Loads Bot to de Dissoalnated

Antonio JUNH tarcos

/Jullo CAURELi Sierra G/W

~ Prancisco CluZ Fliuoras G/W

1 Victor Masol CUELLAR CarTensa G/U

- Bernardo DIAZ Mendos é '" eu.)

Rolando HORSZA Horrasdez C/U.

Marco An2Oa10 L80HI A5912ar G/W AMMuC-I UNiAS

Vidgar iaborto 1030 Dedo GW .

JOSO AQUIleS L. MORALES G/LO ANAUE-I MELOS

ManuAl JOELO ORIEDA PAZ

L Angel PAlLiCIA sanches G/W auLy

Ricardo Arturo dullail épooudos Alberto sMUS iolesr,

JaCObo ARB311. Ousan

HarIO BARRIFAITOS

Manol CAUICH

Carach 20167030 502

Formando SOSA lol

Marco Antonio YON josa

LaiS ALguatO TUNCIOS LIra

Franclaco AlADO gracados

AlICia MOYA do ABado

JOJO METROS FORTUNE

Victor Yanuel BUTIBuls: Garbla

Isabel iOHL donaro do 503a

JOSO RiCAiS

"ollde TuicIus

SECRET

14-00/1 020r841 0n

---

## Page 8

14-00000

Ee1t1 Loada for lo be Disseninacod

Sorge Marbert MDNTERO

Renzo DEPESTRS

191U5/2 029r8t102

SEGMET

---

## Page 9

14-00000

lionduras loads lot to be Diaseninatod

MarIo SD.3A javarTo

LuLa RandaLfo BANBIAS

---

## Page 10

14-00000

:

Nicararea Leads Not lo ba J155091n8lod

•Hool OVERP iNO Santiago

Professor TOIRiS (probably ¿delberto TURR'S ispinaza)

SIIrLO MATURDA (OS HALLORCA)

ErDEStO. HARTINEZ

Derses PALACHI Baca

Carlos A. TIADDO Montiol

MarvIn CASTRO

FallE HONTINIEY DObLI

ALOjARdTO ALECHIA RATudez

JUSA JOSE CANCIA LOTIO

Bayerdo ALIAHILAD LODOE

Ivan BACA

Alejandro BielDE

Aalbal LORIO Carcia

Enriqoo KA: 5700

OrlaNdO SUNiT JUIntERa

lalando QUANT

Montorney "itis

ROdOlfO iDMiN GOGOE

Etrain santia sarcro

19950/220r8110n

---

## Page 11

14-00000

Panana Loads lor to bo Ilesealustod

Tholra XIXD

JOrZe TURNER

(Unknown) "Luis Sonrlsa Caso" - 2 malo sultariato

19100/2 Oporation

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SEOSET

Dominican Zapablle

NEUC Goration

SUBJECTS Pra clica darier Milla PoRa ala Pranclaco Larior MELLA Dara

Io

Signiticanco or Fasjot

a) Cuben intellizonce Service Connection

Malia has boen idantiplod as a Staglaton Cuban Intelligance

Servico Agent In the Dominican Republle, trained as a frocas,

and aleo in S/d and cippers, ills esct sission on benalt of

the CIs is sot known.

b) Comuntat Party 19S11{at10n

subfoct 13 a masbor of the Castroist revolutionary isrupacion

Folitica Cstorce de Jundo (APCJ - liti of June Poliiical Group).

IDa APC¿ 1a not a Gormnist Party per ses horayar, 1is prasant,

donisant losdars are sardist Countst In troir poiltical

alroction, tho Allo 13 prosinad senetratod by actual caiunista,

and 1s imam to receive coral and anterial support fica cuba.

e) Infornation ihich Could be übtalaad

1o

Hus exact mission on behalf of tho Cuban Intolliçonce servico.

that Inforation 19 he required to furnish to the jartico?

The reason for this informition.

what persons u11l ha uto to soquiro this incoration? will

wey ail bo unitting?

3o shat 19 h1a aract solo a3 a storiani (sor asse caches,

demolition atc..)

lia Inforsation on bla accosodation addraga la Prasce, Additional

Intoration on hls eccoradation addross in jasa10s.

So Infarastion on tha rolationship between Diba and the 1.*

and plans for tho Dominican Ropublic.

6. Infaraniion on otiser Cuben Is agents enorn to ala

7, Doubllag (50a IiI for sura details).

---

## Page 13

4-00000

STONET

- 2.

II.

Current Location

barranos Hirallas S0. 5, Madrid, Spaln (aince February IPal, uben

Eirl-Priead, IIOUsTa SAlA)Di Decillo, unas ha narried there. tolthos

has yo: returned to tha losinican Republle.) His last known sodreas

in tho Dominican Republic 11 Avenida Independencia do. 55, santo sondago.

II.

Tulnerabilities (for recruitaent or defoctios)

no only taforation on lili vas acquirod 1n Aur1) 176

Le that cleo Malid bocan

IV.

Paully and islatizes

a) niter (lonara Saluali decillo, ibuinicas cltizan (no Infarsation)

Palhers unis Mail, larinican citizon (no inforsation)

soLzars inani (nes uniram) do iludet, joalaicas cillion (no IníorzatIon)

(Tro tanto ixilno itacion is prosently coructin; au Laresul allon

or his ralativas)

o) Itono enom to to in lao Uniter sestes.

V.

Bio raphile

Dato of Birtr.e

"'s Fabruar? 1237

Place of Birthe

catisongalas

janto ion1nj0, ibainican rosabllo

iba1n1can nosuhlie

lanpu.0a1 failre ipantas conly lancaaro capsollity inom lo ua at

th1s 1190)

rhysical Descriptions :' 10° 1sl1

19 500.2d.3

blac: talr (eut short - tut not cros-cu)

dar brown dyso

moto:ra.sh?

Otror

pareinant

is avallablo al tro jus.

Mach taild de desertand as "arally".

and do03

---

## Page 14

14-00000

- 3.

VI. Operational Leads and lulnos to Biblect for necrustrent or Defection

02

• (21a/19 - Lives la saTe aparusent building area es Subject.

Has famished sose inforastion on subject and bis sirl-friend,

unich ho obtained throuz, norsal contacts.

1) Jalan. DUiUN Hernandol- Operational load only (s00 separat

tarrat shoet).

lo 1a close to Killa and also could lesd us l

& 32111 unifentIfied CIS agent "TIBUWY" NiO USed DINAN AS 20

untillino, courior for to dalivery of sicrofila to Cuba.

to the Arci's extrealot "circle".

good rasulls for Inforcation on othar Luban laryoto of interest.

VII. 5ralzat10n8

b) Mita the present rollog Josinican Irlunrirato, Subjoct could be

aTTUBION

If to cana to security notica, not orly in nis position

win the CIS but also 11 ha becane luvolred in any subyersive

comanist detirizlos. In the event h9 is arrasted to undoubledly

Hould bo deported.

---

## Page 15

14-00000

Joa 1n1cen Rapublic

Tartet Inalysis sonasy Repert

1eX/ Operation

SUBJECTS JALDO DURiN Hernando ara Jaise JUAN Hornandos dia "Jirago

I. Simificance of Tasset

•) Connoction vith Cuban Intalllence Servico

Subject 19 not a Cuban Intelligance Service agent, but did

receivo querTilla training in Cuba.

b) Communist Party Affiliation

MAN 18 Socrotary-doneral of the pro-Castro Airupaclos j01141

• Catorce Junio (APEJ - I1.th of Juno novenent) la to Joainica

ботогасо!t.

• subject is a close friend oi irancisco davier Mal reva,

dontified Cuban Intollizenco jervica A'ont in the Dorlaican

Rosablic.

jubjoct unmittinily carried to Cuba for TiRing"

In optesber 1713, a catch-boox containia, alcrofile.

utility -

renotration of tho lú June i plana la intonioas

of the cubans va D...

II. Current Location

Balioved to bo In Cuba. jias buen tiere sinco sopicabor 17.3.

Last - nom Doninican iapublic addross: ispallla: 129, isnto sonlaio,

Dozinican Kepublic.

III. Vulnerabillites (for recraltant or defoction)

None inaim. (N30 9s0 VII - ¿valuation)

IV. Fastly and relativos

b)

to knoim relatinos la the U.s.1.

...i

---

## Page 16

14-00000

- 2

Blographic Dala

dato of Births 17 Juno 1833

Place of Births Jarabaçoa, Dominican Republic

01t120n812s Jonleican foriolle

Lanzace dublitys dallro ipanigh (only ability enora io us al vals tsus)

Frysical descriptions (requesting fras the station)

Photographs Is arallablo at the desi

TI.

Operational leads and Linas to jubject for Recrultant or Defection

Calot? - Eros l the asso residenial soction as WRAI. Fas

fumiabod sons inforsation on Subject, which be obtaina throne

погна соізя.

(Ny7053/1 - Has providad numerous reports on DO:lils actinitles

witnin tho area.

Cos - Has provided trior intoraulos on Subjests astirition

within the arts and his traval to cuba.

VII. Evaluation

In trat se presuso tial. Dilli 19 a sará-core Courunist and at present

hare scant intomation for a tarzut assea3a0nt, lazodiate prospecia

sor rocrultact aro virtually nill. requirements can be lovico on

oL6y0i05:/1 since.

above, so vill to startin at the sotrou of the laddor on tural as an

aporational tarrot.

SE0223

---

## Page 17

14-00000

.3.:

Cuba - Doainican Republle

Tarcot Analysis Surary Report

12033/ Operation

SUBJECIA Socratos Isaias PSUUURO SOnuorer Allas NOlDOs BARCI DISiA Bia "'UDO"

I.

SLipINCInco of Target

In tat Subject lives 11 Cuba ho could be extremoly valvablo to

wi/sA and ail/2/voralnicas lepublic.

a) Cornection with Cuben Intolllrence Service

SOUER is tho APCJ (Arrupacion jolitica Catorco de Junlo •

l'eh as Juno Politica) Uroup) representativo In Cuba actlo,

as focal point betreen the Ally and the Cabez Intolliyanco

service (DUI).

conminist Party Affiliation

Aris reprosentativo In Cusa. Subject ras boon soported a3 a

EstibaT of tiro

pro-castro faction of the drid since ly'el men

ho sas extled 10 Guracão.

c)

Intoration rhich Subject Could Fumigh

1. abject could faraian inforation on the ralailonghio

bet voan

the Cuban Intelliyonce sarrico aril tic l'vo.

2. Inforestion on tha Arco as a party, plano, reabers ote.

3. Information an Cuban Intolli-enco Service personnol i nosm

to dis.

••¡ossibio operations of the Cutan Intollizenco ¡ervico aiainst

Dominicaa Republis.

rossible Informatlos on saltura oi intorost lo i4/51 rithin cuba.

roublin; as a sonotra:lon oi te Cubar Intolligence Serrico

1o Inforation os corialcaas dola: trainad in subs, noi onli in

¿varrilla trainira, but s3 a. 0713.

---

## Page 18

14-00000

."..

..

2

II. Cerrent Locstlon

1ros In labana, Cuba (addresa ulsown).

In Cuba to soes by tho

1830 of Nolson BARET.

III. Tulnerabilitlos (for rocrustaent or dofosllan)

Hone inon. No Inforation on lis activitlos sinco l'il 13 snovn.

I%.

Tesly and 30lat1voe

a) NIfe - Gisela SiCIO do raçuoro, daughtor of forsor joalrican

Concul 1n Curacao.

•) Childron - one daughter (nano and a,o unsnown), and ono sor

(nane uninown) born in labana, Cabs in Deceaber 1913.

c) Fathor - Isalas PIJWW Ferez (doccaucd)

d) Mother - Tulla (100 uinom) de PUGliTO (no additlaral infornatioa)

e) Brother - Holeon Ramon PeRVENi Senuorer (doccasod)

6) 51stora - Soboya 0. FidUe0 Sunourer and Marla do Pollow sonuorar

(no adultional Informatlo)

8) No relativos known lo do 1a tio Unllod :tatos.

B1osra2aie Data

Date of Birthe 1!, January 1223

Place of Birtbr

(NOTS8

23 January 193%, loainican Republie; occusation:

sturient)

CLElzOnships

noninican repuolle? posribly chanjod to cubar.

Languaro ability: "ative juanlah; omors not know.

150 pounds

blacs cyes

wears eye 1a330s

cars noustache

Paotorraph 1a avallablo of ile and aleo tho real talson BARiT DlsLa

Decer pertinent data:

Laboratory Tecnician

---

## Page 19

14-00000

=3.

VI. Uporational Laada and llnes to subjoc: for iocraltment or Defoction

• havo several sourcos resortin: on activities of tho Ara, 11

пітоогу єи.

Itr.in the ioninican dapublic! Giamos:A and/‹

ropori on other Cuban Larzets.

VII. Evaluation

ahllo thera 1s no Inforsation an hand to Indicato jubjact 13

approachablo, tho fact lhat is la ln Cuba, snova to 14-10/1 - shou

almit approach him - and tias bees identitlad to us ho baconas as

operational intorest: abriously our objective is to contino

our

Intorest and colloct what Information ve alght, axaltin; tins day for

h1s exit fron Cuba.

At that timo soro dalinitin astion mient be

considured. sis Importance as a source of inforsation on Insido

Cuba and that country's Intantion and casabilities on lie Dominican

Ropublic cannot is discounted and morit our continued aloreross to

is activities and shareabouts.

3/0J

---

## Page 20

14-00000

Target Analysia Summary Report

SUBJECT: ROqUe DALTON GArCIA

AMMUG/1 OperatIon

I. 81gulficance of Targot

ind radio reception.

rember of the Central Connittee of the PCES.

characterized Subject as having excellent contacts within

the DGI In CUDE.

Subject 1a 1n contact vità Mauricio

lexico City.

In view of the above,

expected to furnish considerable infornation on both the

PCES In Bl Salvador and his activitles for the dgI.

II. Current Location

Subject mas deported Iron El Salvador to Mexico la late

Januaxy 1964.

On 16 June 1961 Subject das spotted by the

Salvadoran National Police In San Salvador, and 18 now

under surveillance.

Exact address will be obtained by

the San Salvadoran

Station.

I1I. Vulnerabilitles

ANWUG/1 11sts Subjoct an his lending candidate for recruit-

sent by us.

His reasonles on this 15 that subject 1s not

highly motivated, has a weakness for women and the easy

11I0, and a generally real naturo.

AMkUO/1 says that

Subject is very intelligent, but nover shorod a real desire

to learn during his Cubas trainine.

Subject vas given

600 dollara to purchase a radio recelves upon his return

Iron Cuba, but he apparently spent the noney on hlasell.

IV. Paully and Rolatives

One of Subject's three

A sister,

hargarita, la Hexican citizen

who now 1g

In Cubaas

a

student.

---

## Page 21

142800000

-2-

V. Blographic Data

DOB: 11 May 1935

San Salvador, El sa149d01

Lational Abily!

Native Spanish; others not knowI

Paysical Description:

Height 1.68 maters; long thir

face; black eyes; tro gold teech; thinlipped; black

bair parted on left side.

Photo Availablo: Yes

VI. Operatlonal Leads und Lines to Subject for Recrultment

In san Salvador (Station has (unilateral pesetratios o1 24

the policefuho sight be used as a lead into Subject).

VII.5714 t100

FrOM ANNUE-I'S aSsessent of Subject, basod on personal

inowledge and obeervation,

It could appear tast Subject

would not be a too difficult targot to hit. Horever,

BOne o1 his personal characteristics which save nade bin

a handling problen for the DGI sould presumadly nite bin

a handling problea for us.

His failure to portora 10r

the DGI since October 19ü3 night mitigato agalast our

use of his Fbich vould Inclute, presumably, resumption of

Els s/w channel.

Nonetheless, AMMUt-l's clala that subject

is a nabor of the Central Contittee

of the POiS (news to

us) sakes his an operitional target for that resson alope.

4/PN

---

## Page 22

14.00000

Ha1t1

Iariot Analysis insary doport

SUBJBETe Joan HorberE MoNTiso

I.

Si:nificance of Tarzot

a) Comection ilta Cuban Intelligence Service

At this tino subject is noi an sogat of the cahan Intelligence

service.

He 1a carrently in Cuba sec:ina assistanca iron tha

DOI for the tralata" of Haltians In guerrilla sarfaro actltitlos

for an erentusl thrust agaiast islil to oust iresidont

Francois iUVALsi.

Comunist Party derIlation

Sacrorary-Deneral of tiso Haitian Liberation Pront, a nexly forod

party, vita tho ultlaato aln dê soryin: tio tuo comunist parties

of dait1. Pensitivo Inforzation avallable ai the vos.. Indicaten

that thls party is Moscou iniluenced f

0) Inforzation »bich Jubject Could Furnien

1. Subjoct could provido valuable Information on tra Maltlan

Libsration Front, 1.0., ita raibers, plans, status viti the

Du5i Cuba ate.

2. Inforsation on tho US.IR/Cuba position vità respoc: to ilait1.

3. Inforaailon as U3sa/Cuba influenco and pesetrazions of

Haillan extla circles.

La Incoration on Cubanto relationsila vili tresident

Francois JUvAllii.

5. Intoralion on Hallians nou 15 Cuba and/or the USER.

II. CUrTeaL LOSTEROn

As of April l'iL ho sas 11rina at the socol Calina la labara, Cuba.

ls porrañeli rasidence 1s bollored to be la ianlo Doalio, iocialcan

Hopublio miaro no has boon in ortia.

---

## Page 23

14-00000

= 2 .

III. Vulnerabilie es ifor recrustaent or cofoczion)

мото : погл.

i is scros;ly ancl-ivanti. In 1732 nasy ialti80

extle circles ing somedia donn on tro Unicad States as a rosult

of the unsuccese?il icatorber 1?: 3 Intasion of illi, 1l 19 possiolo

that subloct serly turned to tra "left" for assistauco in overthrowing

INALIEN®

It is novever quito faasitile trat ho vould cooporato vita

uo Urilod str'es l8 ho felt ve sere la:in; an enti-tialisa stand.

rv.

П.

Fazily and äe:as7es

sono -102s.

Blo raphlo Dele

date of Birihs Jarrown

Place of Biriti salil (?)

citizoneclus saillan

Languare abll'":

lative Fronca or Creolo, sory little Spanish

paysical doscriptions

.. Test tal1

1:0 sourda

"cars suistache

посо та 15 71 1300

utber portitts

jaco

epuratlonal iena and lines lo iuntect for fectultaoni dE Dofociion

b) Causa - Lattian arle in the Dacinican logublio uno stared 024

Mita ¡iridi la tao doninican iopublio 1n 1758.7

discroot lemirlas rajardia KoNici.

lait1 ico la andy in a position to na.o

digeror cricies recardin: malin.

VII. Svaluatio:

-luog vulneraoslity lo rocrattaent lillie ca lo cor

Honover, no vag colnted out in IlI asors, 1l 13 h1 tly prObable Fat

---

## Page 24

14-00000

- J.

b) 5udj0ct 1s not subjoct to arrest uhen ho returna to the

Darinican Repualle, unless ar course, his setivitios ita

the cubara bacose mow. In an event ho definitaly vould

not roture to Halll, as ha vould lanodiately ba laprisosad

and sost probably torturod and hilllad.

---

## Page 25

14-00000

Targat Analysls Suscury report

SUBIZCT: 5001 GUFHESEO SAntIaGO

(201-81510)

ALXIC/1 Operation

I.

SignifIcance of TRisCt

GUSTERO 19 prevently In lexico and 18 "Intersedlary"

H18 Cuôas

Intol pseudio l6 Andres badarlaya.

Hesloo In March Ists regarulas lunds which the DGI had

provided the

ili.

ACCOTUIDE YO ALBUGI GUARNERO 18

Involved In 'Iljos do la Tempestad" tüich also 1nvolvas

trEo or four other It sfesta.

aliMit→l also reparted

that thReRo la in trouble with the fli viter clalus

ВВ ГРУПІ МОВЕУ

Laproprly.

'Tax FLY bas uo confidanco

11 bla and considere hla covaruly and lacing, in

Ilenting spirit.

lij other

sources he hus bien described

sa ase 0f the naln comuulsti in Central f5951cs.

Gas In Cura la 1930 lo sel Cubai alù fienthe revolutionary

sOvenODI agalnet NiCAIRÇUa.

of the Consunist Party In LeXIC).

1n corinto and siviori to the iteraior's Coloo.

II. Curteat location

Bo 19 presently lis liesico.

sas a political colle

11 Huaduria 1n 1957.

travellni extensively

throughout contral Inciles imi sy lave beon clancostinoly

1II. Vulnerabilitles (for recrultaint or doloctio0)

ALLUGI: GUERREÃO 10 1n IroUble gita the FLil Mbich clalsa

Do spant sOLES 1s0ruperly.

The Flid laz no conildence

1n k15, and considers hin coardly and laciing la

of tho abortivo incursion lu Micarayun 1n July 18ãl by

Salvlo Hayorga and Urlando Luant Luintana unlch viados

GUERATTO fOr 1tS failUrE.

GUERS FIN's Ona scuunt adalla

certala aistakon and rides to jualliy others.

HONOUET.

1t Just De burre in alnd ChEe GIERIERO LE A 1005 8153

---

## Page 26

14-00000

-2-

cornist, anti-somoza icrolutionary.

IV: Faully and relatives

8110: 01011e Chacon

suspected

Cosmunlat, says toel 11 Consunlat.

sasoza, hus suent tine ln jali.

JOse t. GUiNURO Custillo, rosidest 01 Loos

(DOI: 1955)

Personal 1a

DUB: 12 AD5L1 1914

POB: LEOn, NICArAGUS

NAStODal1ty: NICATAGURD

Spanish and Inglish

РТОЇНЕЗСВ ПОДО

Zuucation: 2 coursas firat yenr lau

Photo:

Avaslabio in Elouraphic Rebister

Physical deacription:

ays a secretone are at tried are

VI.

onerat lonal Lends anu Lines to subject for secrulterat

or belection

AliKal Knous bin personally, was 1n contact alta la

VIl. Evaluation

..In 1942 Or 1917 (repOrted bOtD MAyS) CUERTINO Mas espellOd

arora the jolcan Conuaist surly (Ma:) accordins to

DI INE IC (LIMUAN) NIO 8AS & ISCTHITAt

candidate (but'dropped), and

ThO Bald thAt CUERRIU DIgAt

then be arenablo to recruitmaat.

Apparently no attempt

as pada to rocrult hia. He hus bad: rocorded throughout

Pha JOiTs sInce an an active CommuNict revolutIOnary sui

VAS PIIlLA ITON MICATALIA SOr rEPOINtlUNArS ACtIVItLES

10195.

Also 1n 1959 re sent to Libe a0d tag SC6173

there in preparins for the rerolulloner, mvonent ta si

to apparently uns turiina lot Choa 13

aL the tIMO OI I ALUTIIVO INVOlUTIONALY aITENDE SLATE!

Nicarakua 1n 1963, au a documont around dy awaii

---

## Page 27

14-00000

-3-

polit out seasons l0r 1ts falluro.

Another doossent

"ritten by Silvio kayorge and orlando cuRlio, Loveror.

"Andres" (GUERRERO) 1Or

Ita I011UrO.

Just sill be in the food fraces of the Cuban 1S, 11

ho is an stest in the

"AlJos de la Tespestud" and

BOITES &5

"Intoragdiary" to the VLN, Of rEmants thIch

Ray De rOOFgANIZILE.

It soens bluhly unlikely that

GARREDO muld to receptive to other rectuitoeat or

deloction.

AlmiGl knows hin personally and set with

hIS In LEXICO 11 bATCh 1964.

It roule appoar that

ALMIX-I could turnian nore information about als

COBRACE TIEN CUERTO

ahlcù could be helDiul 1a as:

ThETE iS A TOMOTE tROE CHETNINO WAD IN MICHALUA

claudeatinely

In 13fi2.

so roule undoubterly tas

arrosted chuuld ar roturu thero and als presence

discoYaTId by the NicarAguALS.

MOTT: TD19 15 DUt a couplate target analyals and spould 10t

Do used 38 cucia.

---

