# 104-10216-10273

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10216-10273

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

Deputy Chief, MI/SA

CUSIAICATION

SECRBT

PROCESSIRAS

10

FiFO

Or a tesTE

KELONUS I'

ГРОМ

Chies of Station, JHAVE

S ABSTRACT

SUBJECT

TIPIC/LA PRON/AITEDNE/ONET ATIONAI

ANTRUNK PrOgIess Leport for Period 1-30 Novenber 1961

ACTION RIQUIRLO RISERINGS

Action Required: FYI.

1. OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

A. PreparatIons were underway in early November to

dispatch ANTRUNK-13 to Madrid in aid-Noverber to cement

the recruitnent of AXTRUNK-19. These plans fell

through when the hadrid Station notified Headquarters

and "AVB thet their workload would not allow sulficient

case officer time to handle AMTEUNK-13 in Hadrid at thig

tine.

FAVE agreed to postpone ASTRUNK-13'8 trip to

Madrid sovoral weekg until Hadrid Station's workload

abated sonerhat.

B. The prospects of linalizing the recruitment of

ALTRUNK 19 Increased homever with the receipt at HAve

of another open letter from AMTRUNE-19, this one

malled from Mexico City 1n mid-November. In ASTRUMK-19°8

first letter, nailed Iron Hontrenl in mid-October, he

Buggested using a triend in Mexico City as a cut-out to

Initiate a channel of communications between hinself and

ANTAUNA-13. In his second letter, AMTRUMb-19 stated

that he had nade the necessury arrangements vith his

friend in Mexico.

Although WAVE,

Headquarters and veXI

traces on AXTRUNK-19's frlend, IDEN A, vere fragmentary,

Mexico Station stated that IDIN A taB well-known to one

Of 1t8 PBRUNEN assets who vouched for IDEN A's loyaltleg.

HAVE intends to send an innocuous letter to AXTRUNX-19 10

AMTRUNK-13'& handwriting to keep the channel with &-19

alive. AKTRUNK-19 appears eager to see AbTRUNk-13 agals

and has stated in both letters that he has congiderable

Information to discuss in detall. It is vell realized

that this open letter channel 18 lar fron ideal but lt

Is hoped that in early January 1905 AMTRUNK-13 can re

contact AHTRUVK-19. and provide his with a systen of s/a

LANE

Attachwent: USC

IDEN Sheet

LASH-I file

ONE DESPATCHED

Distribution:

3 - Addressee,

c/att.

ISA

60:8

E177405 0-8059919

8з тосрокда 70в

mortgaisin

• CROSS RETTALNOR TE

OASSUSCADON

SECRET

DATE TYPES

10 DEC 61

CESPATOM STMBOL ANO MENDEN

ViGA- 19045

MEADQUARTERS TIE, NESUBER

19-6-84/31

AAN:

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPRICH

CLASRIFICATION

SECRET

DIAPATCH AIMDOL AND MUMARA

UPGA- 19015

'as well as debriet bin thoroughly and levy Pl and

KHAPRON rEquIreDeDtE upon bin.

C. 'ID ald-loveaber after the postponesent of AHTRUiX-13"g

adrid trip, preparations began to lausch Operation

This operation could attengt

to re organize the ratline to and fror lavana and the

AMTRUNK 1nf11 ares for the future use of infiltratod

KHAPRON recrulters and otber agent assets as necessary.

Secondary objectives are lo bring into the lufil area

& cacho of weapons and explosives for AMIRISk-10/ANLASI-1

and to teach a systen of Sil to one or nore assets in the

The tean is to be composed of the same four individ

uals who participated in Uperation ANTEUNA IX In October

AHAGRHL-1, Team Leader; AHAKA-1, Radlo Operator;

and AUTRUNK 16 and -20, Guideg. It was deciúoù lo sneive

the V-20 as the Intermediate Craft (IC) for this opcra-

tion and substitute a 17' Johnson boat with twin 75 bp.

outboard notors wbich could maneuver through shallower

water and which could be more easily carouflaged.

basic reason for this decision was the fact that

ber through February are the low water months in the

ANTRUNK operational arAA.

During this shallow water

BERSOD, the heavier, wider V-20 can only be used in the

deoper and sore heavily-guerded 1n11ltratlon canals.

through the combined efforts of AlIce-ly, the ANtRUNk

P/A,

and ALARiEl and AM4KA-1, four radio operator

candidates, to be tralDod fOI PUtUre USO In PA opura-

tions, vere recrulted during the reporting period.

B. ROCrULting fOr MIAPRON InfIltratIon candidates con.

tinued during the reporting period.

One prospective

Intiltree was recruited during the month of loveuber

and the case officer was active in assessing and debriel-

lug too otber cardidates.

It 18 hoped that by larch 1965

one or sore of these candidates vill be trained and pre

pared for infiltration for clandestine MilAPRON recruit-

1 ng.

In Large neasure this will depend upon the success

of

Sporation AlTEUNX & In re-organizing the ratline to

and IrOn Havana.

I. S/" Mensage No. 13 was sent to ANTRUNE-ll In response

to his Message No. 15 in which he stated that both Owvl

receivers vera now in his possession.

13 tO ANTHUNE-11 gave directions for the disposition o1

the OrVi recelvers and the activation of ONVi contact

with both ANTRUNK-11 and ANrRUNK-10.

2.

INTELLIGENCE REPORTING

Hone

3. OPPRATIONAL SXPENDITURES

Salaries:

ANICE-IA

ANAGREE- 1

AMAKA 1

AKTRUNE- 13

ASTRUNX-16

AXTRUNX-20

MIleage (ANICE-11 and ANAGREE- 1):

Household ExpeDses:

GRAND TOTAL

8100.00

300.00

250.00

300.00

225.00

200.00

$1, 675.00

$202.10

81.97

- $1,939.37

CLASSIFICATION

F.0 S3a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

Траок но.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CURRCATON

BECRNT

DISPATCH AYNUOL ARE RUMALA

UrG 150-15

A. PROJECTED PLANS

primary tears to be accospliabod are the sounting os

Operation ANTRUNK X in early December, the dispatching of

AHTRUNÉ-L3 tO Madrid to Iinalize tho recruiinent of AlTBU-&-19,

and the staging of another contingont of lilApill recrullers for

10111tration 19 March 1865.

Andren E. REUTERAN

. ....

CLASSIFICATION

FORM

-.60

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

TRAGE Na

---

## Page 4

ID

EX

4..

SECRET

SEPARATE COVER ATTACIUENT

TO UFGA- 190÷3

IDEN Sheet

Dr. Francisco BORGES

#. Escobedo No.

692-16

Mexico 5, D. F.

SECRET

a telmo 91

......--

---

