# 104-10106-10716

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10106-10716

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

12 Decerber 1907

SUBJECT:

SCHLUNBERCER WELL SURVEYING CORPORATION

(see lions Funstions Dunker - Lessel by Sabgect f1ra)

ALLEGATIOLI:

SAPRISON has charges

that the burglary of the

Hours tunitions burker bes

"CIA-Inspired." Be lssued

arrest surrents for CordOn

NOVEL UNA-SEFELO ARCACIA

SITE charging them with

the foura burglary.

SOURCE:

=

Enclosure 24 of

CI/RiCh RenOTaRiUM af

7 Bugust 1957.

CIA CON&BOLTON'S

CIA had so connection vith the

alleged burglery of the Houna Funitions

Bunter or any connection tith the

bunter 1tself.

However, Pierre SCHLIHRERGER, preztient

of the SCHLU-BERGER CORPORATION, JES Of

contact interest in 1950 for routine

exploitation as e foreign intelligence

source. The FBI advicod they hal no objection

to the Ageney's. Interrogating Plerre

SCHLUFPERCER kho vas an alien. In 1952

DAYSIRON, INC. USE acquired by SCHLUHRERGER,

The Agency bad a contract with DIX-

STROY fOT an UnClaBalfied 1teE 1049,000 2Y

contract for the production of Mark II

limpet nines)i] Agency Interest vas elessified

Secret. i

SCHLOVRERGER, LID. 18 & Dutch firm

controlled by French artionals. After the

serger, It vas determined that future relation-

ship with DAYSIRO: mist be governed by

Agency polloy not to place elassifies contracts

with = forelen flIn. In 1963 the same

decision was reaches: conceraing Agency con-

trücts with Electro-lechuteal Research, Inc.,

"a subsidiary of SCHLU BERIER, IND. BR

dealt 1n all rhases of teieretry.

Contect

clesrances for other personnel of SCHLUNBERGER

are set out belod.

DE TADICES RESULTS:

The SOHLURERGER CONFALY Has the subject of a nise: chect in

1547 Lec: use 0! i cont et request, and it wus determine? that there are

nuber of SCrU SCMUPER.IT corporations in Litin teric, suich are domi-

citej by french ntion: 15.

SCELU BERGER has a patented operition for an

01l vell "abootia," service wich 1s subocribei to by virious o1l companies.

The SCILU: BERTER WEIL SURVEYING CORPORATION In Louston vis costrolled by

tents Georges DOLly I French nition:l..

Be was of contset interest in

1956 and 1957. Els wife 16 tie daughter of ConFed SCHUlBERCER.

134.

SECRET

Excluded from automalic

donagradias and

declassificatien

RETURN TO GIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

SECRET

In August 1951 the Agency vas Interested In contacting Professor

Sdouard POLDINI, & geophysicist and professor st the Univeraity of

Geneva and formerly an employee of the SCHLUMBERGER CORPORATION 10

Faris, for operational use. He was to be used as a chennel to a Janus

KANTAS sho could give Infomation about the fate of the previous employees of

the Jersey Company In Hungary, the production figures and extent of

exploitation of existing o1l flelds and exploration of nev o1l fielde

together with the names of the officiale of the Russian Hungaries Coupeny

ho took over the Jersey Company.

In March 1953 the SCHLUMBERGER file reflects that an FBI source

furnished information that one Maurice Fenri MARIIM, employed as an

engineer by the SCHLUMBERGER Company, Paris, France, received & letter

dated 27 July 1951 at Moscow fron one Siegfied Stefanovitch MOROSOFE,

asting MARTIN for speclalized Information concerning geophysics. The

letter requested that MARIIN's reply be forwarded to Moscow through an Inter-

mediary. From January 1932 unt11 April 1937 MARIIN represented the SCHLUMBERGER

Company In Russia as an engineer, and it was thougit that the correspondence

from MOROSOFT may represent a soviet attempt to resume contact with MARTIN

and develop clendestine relations with him. The FBI conducted an InvestI-

gation asted June 1953 and determined that Naurice HenrI MARTIN resided

at Nod R1ll, Wilton, Connecticut and was employed by the SCHLUMnE

Well Surveying CO., Ridgefield, Connecticut. Informants advised that

although MARTIN was strongly nationalistic toward france, be gave every

Indication of belag ent1-Bussian and there vas no evidence d CP activities.

When DAYSIROM, INC. Merged with SCHLIMBERGER, IND., research WaB

done on the directors and offICers Of SCHLUMBERGER, IND. The results

ErE aB fOllOWs:

Os Indices reflect a record on Dillon ANDERSON, e trustee of

Electro-Mechanical Research, Inc. (a subsidiary of SCHLUMBERGER, LID.)

who was also a proposed trustee of "NEW DAYETROY when 1t merged wIth

SCHLUMBERGER. ANDERSON 15 as attorney from Houston, Tezas who was

appointed by President EISUNHOWER as an advisor to the lstional Security

Council fron 1953 unt11 1956. ' He was considered for a special clearance

in August 1955 but the briefing was not given. He was granted a covert Of

clearance In December 1953 and April 1954 for use as a covert associate

on Project IPFUNNEL. ]

Pierre SCHLUMPERGER, President and Chief Executive Officer,

SCELUMBERGER, LI'D., Houston, l'exas, French citizen, was of contact

Interest 1n 1950.

Charles C. PARLIN, Director of SCHLUMBERGER, LTD., and a member

of the law firm of SHEAR EN, STERLING and WRICHT, Englewood, New

Jersey, U.S. eitizen, was of contact Interest in 1962 but was

security disapproved.

PARLIN was allegedly the boy friend of Johanna

BEKER who was in contact with known Soviet Agents, ROBERT and JACK

SOBLE.

BIKER advised the FBI In 1957 that she received, paid for and

transmitted to Robert SOBLE, OSS Information which was given her by

two former OSS employees.

She also advised the FBI in 1957 that she

SEGRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

hia giver a very general outline of ter ictivitiez to PiNLIN ani

it 1s rellibly reported that PARLIN and EMiR shared = botel roon

In Folleni in 1957.

PARLIN recorrented . Willian Hourt LANCASTER

for oss employrent.

ISRCIETER 1'35 & renber of the sire law tirI is

PARiIK ana had : long record of Corrunist. front siMiliations.

in 2955 truveles to lussiu is s nonber of i celegition unier the

sponsorchi, of the lutional Council of Crurches.

fe tas sloo the

Inayer for a Swiss i ment injustriulist too sols eras to the

Nazis ans the Communist countries since that time.

CLOTS DrOUTILINO COODNAI, ViCE-PreSIdEnt of SCHUBERGER,

Foiston, texas, t. E. citizen, was security clopproved for

uie by TED in 1952 ani for cont-ct use in 1955 besed on his support

0f TroLessor DirY: SARUIl, : Collese et NIT, ino Wis indicted on

chrie of hivin been i Corzunist conspirstor and liestilled es a

corrustst Firty rember.

In Torch 1959 the sume cerogatory infornation

ma furnishel the contuc office to be considered in determining sny

tso, e tool written by GooD's wife, lay Ellen

GOOD: IN, win a vorably reverel by the 'DILY HOMER" in 1956.

Jen C. LDERAID, vice-Preslient of the SCHLU TERGER kaLI.

SURVELLEG CORTORMIS, Firefiel, Comesticut (U. S. citizen,

nitur 11ce: Isuator, Tens 1941) was enproveù for contuct use in lüy

2557.

Fie Pile 10 Cler. Tere 15 i Dot:tion that one lis. I. C.

TE36/0, 5319 kanell Serect, Eouston, Tezes, in Hoverher 194% wis

Trestient of the louston Chunter, Brunce Forever, The Firliting French

cormittee in seric:.

Everett sTRAitor, Sales Men ger,

Fouston ires, SCHUBERG.

0L SURVETIE: Comorition, Houstos, Texas, U.S. citizen, vie security

¡proved (CAUTION) foI contict use in October 1950, Mis file 15 cler.

10

D niel SCHAnAGE, French citizes, archeologiet ind tencher

•E the Inivercity of lte shorte, irence 10 1055, Vis amated a

mer tion. mprounl arouni for use sa: contruct trent 1e Kabul in April

1950 out the cle:r. ace wus encelled 20 Septecher 1556. Els file 18

cler. Fovever, in i file On Niclone Trot, Freach finncier, ai

suspected somet reut, unic contoine : detailes study of the inter-

rel tionshays una frily connections existine in French firms,

infortion ca Daniel SOILl BIRTIn is contine tierin. D-niel

COME DROBE, reder of de COMMENCE, WELL SURVEIG Corportion,

wis houd of the freuer lochoole ic:l Isier tion in Iscenist r (1945-

1954).

An associ te of Diadel SCuLU PENGER as Reoul CURIEL Of & benitay

Jewish brakies fuily in Ciro, Eont. Riou! and his hrother, Feur1

CinDeld Comanial i dipounds end their nother de mut to Ceore

CE In 1a Cret Ca 100

"elected to Pussui.

Ino callert FoNteconVo, taa Conunist,

we in ront ci vit? Exerto CRuE

•ral tive of the CURICh frily

trans Parracorvs, rilbert's brother,

•n' the itonte solentist mo deracied to Fuses: 12 1956, worked for

the Hel: Surreuin famue bion, Tulau, 0i1:101, tea 1040 to 1941 but.

1j ve not inor it the 90200 BeRCER Fell Surveying Corporation 1e 10 :ny

mr connected with the vali Surveying Corjoration in Tulsi.

-$=

SEGREL,

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SEGRET

SCELUNEURGER and Coupony and Enother SCHLUMBERGEi SUbBiBiary

Mir, Nichine Bull (Competitor of Ili), ste connected with Schnelder

and company,

42 rue d'cujou, PiTlE. PrONCOlS SLAR-DANICHEL, ENAgeS

of Compriate Interactionale de Comerce, represents SCHNEIDER fOr

tbe USSR End 13 a Soviet agent. In Septerber 1901, an Investlestion

conducted in France discloses thst "ererything that takes plece Ir

the Blyece 18 known in Bascon within 18 hours and the orlefastor of

such Intelligence 18 Francols SAAR-DIWICERL." Hachines Bull 1e

controlled by General Electric Counsty of the U. S. Gnd SCHAELDER

and Doemany 18 affIllated With U. S. Hestinghouse Corporstion

under the nine shiElDER-testinghouse.

The Study In NAGAR's flle contalne the following sidltional

InformEtIon Concerning SCHLUHBBICER and Copany,

MurIce and Perd SCHLINHENGER ere affillited with lazard

PreTes and the Horms Benio

Lazara Freres controls SCHNEIDER-

Westinghouse und has a lew Orleans Branch Office, Closely assocleted

with the SCHLUBERGER's is CharleS DOg. DOH W3E bore et Ojeßse in

1911 and arrived 15 the United States in 1937 to Join the sculuMburgi

Hell Surveying Corporstion it loustou, Teres. He keenue s U. Se

citizen on 6 Septender 1950. Onsrles his e brotber, Jean, too was

closely resoclited tith Leonard HOUNAU, i suspected Sorlet agent.

HOUR:U was closely associated with Francois SIAR-DEICHal, previously

restlone: Soviet agent cannected with ScHLurEliur and Company.

CusTles DOE ta8 approved for Anency comtsct lise In September 1955 es

e benber of the SCHLLNERRGER Hell Surveying COrpOrtIOn. ElE rile

is cient.

Roger Robert Fant SAQUET, Erecutive ViCE-Iresidenty

SCHLUIPERGER Well Surveying CorporatIon, Houston, Texis, WaB approved

foI contret use on a linitel basis la October 1950. Fe had been an

employse of OSS fros 1943 to 1945; vs Elven Irericun citizenshiy

ind the Congressional ledil of Ibnor for kis deeds during World War II.

Arthur Fenty FRENTROP, in employee of the SCHLUNBERCER HELL

SUFVEYING CORPORATION, Ridgefield, Connecticut, wis of contact

interest In June 195ú. Informition concerniny, his spouse's critical

attitue tourde merican cuttons and institutions and the doninant

¡osition she exercises over ber busband was furnished the contact

office.

SECRET

---

