# 104-10234-10102

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10234-10102

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

SECRET

80

DEPUTY CHILE, AHISA

TBO

PROCESSING ACTION

PANCIO HOR MADERN

NO MOOING ARGURED.

A JUDGE INDON

FROM

CHIEF OF STAILON, INHAVE

MICROFILM

SarYPIC/AMTRUNK/MHAPRON OPERATIONAL

TRAMSMLITAL DE COPY OF MEMO REGARDING AMTRUNK-9 INFIL WHICH

ACTION ALOURED RE UMPASSED TO AGSI 19 JANUARY 1965

FYI

B.

WAVE -7247

WAVE -7248

TRANSMITTED UNDER SEPARATE COVER VIA FLEXOWRITER IS A COPY

OF THE

HAVE MEMO TO ACSI AS PRESENTED TO AGSI ON 19 JANUARY 1965.

2. THE ''CAS SOURCE'' MENTIONED THROUGHOUT THE MEMORANDUM IS

AMICE - 14.

THE "'SUB-SOURCE'' IN PARAGRAPHS 11 THROUGH 14 AND THE

''SUB-SOURCE'' IN PARAGRAPH 24 ARE THE SAME PERSON, IDEN A OF REFS.

3. LATER DEVELOPMENTS SINCE THE PASSING OF THIS MEMORANDUM

ARE THAT BOTH THE WIFE OF AMTRUNK-9 AND AMICE - 14 HAVE IDENTIFIED

''JORGE'" AND ''TORRES'' AS THE SAME PERSON FROM A PHOTOGRAPH PRO-

VIDEO BY ACSI AND. PER PARAGRAPH 27. THAT THE WIFE OF AMTRUNK-S

/WHO NOW BELIEVES HER HUSBAND TO HAVE BEEN TAKEN PRISONER/ IS

EXERTING PRESSURE UPON ACSI FOR ODYOKE TO NEGOTIATE THROUGH DIPLO-

MATIC CHANNELS FOR HER HUSBAND'S RELEASE.

REPORTEOLT,

THE WIFE OF

AMTRUNK-9 HAS ASKED FOR AND RECEIVED PERMISSION FROM ' 'TORRES A TO

MRITE A LETTER TO THE WIFE OF GIDEAL PLEADING HER HUSBAND'S CASE.

ANDREW K. REUTEMAN

ATTACHMENT • USC

NAVE MEMO TO AGSI DATED 19 JAN 65

DISTRIBUTION

BY TAPE

3 - DC/MH/SA H/ATT

AMLASH-I fole,

69391

society: 108-139

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATOM SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA -19569

CLASSIFICATIOSI

SECRET

DATE

22 JANUARY 1965

T MOS mE NUMBER

201-728707

---

## Page 2

4-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

+: +55100801598

OMATCH SISHUA, AND RARELE

ATT TO UFGA- 19565 PGI

HEMCRANDUM FOR - ACSI, MIAMI

SUBJECT

• INFILTRATION INTO CUBA BY

MODESTO ORLANDO CREZCO BASULTO

AT ABOUT 1800 HOURS, 29 DECEMBER 1564, MRS. JOSEFINA LOPEZ

DE OROZCE, MPE OF MODESTO CRLANDO ORCICO BASULTE AKA ''BEBO"',

TELEPHOMED A CAS

JOURCE WHO HAS BEEN FRIENDLY WITH OROZCO FOR

SEVERAL YEARS.

MRS. OROZCO ASKED THE CAS SCURCE TO VISIT HER AT HER

HOME THAT EVENING.

THE CAS SOURCE ARRIVED LATER THAT EVENING.

MRS. OROZCO

ASKED THE CAS SOURCi IF HE KIEW THAT HER HUSBAND HAD LEFT FOR CUBA.

CAS SOURCE REPLIED THAT HE HAO HEARD RUMORS TO THAT EFFECT.

OROZCO SAID THAT SHE WAS VERY WORRIED ABOUT HER HUSBAND BECAUSE

STE HAÙ NUT MEARU A VERO FROM GA ABOUT HIM SAMCE ME LEFT WITH 2

OTHERS & DAYS PREVICUSLY, ON 21 DECEMBER 196%.

OROZCO HAD PLANNED

TO RETURN IN A WEEK. MRS. GROZCO ASKED CAS SOURCE TO TRY TO FIND

OUT SCMETHING ABCUT CROZCO THAGUGH ''HIS FRIENDS IN CUBA''. CAS

SOURCE SAID THAT HE WOULD TRY SINCE HER HUSBAND HAD BEEN A GOCD FRIEND

•OF HIS BUT THAT HE WOULD NEED SOME CETAILS OF THE PROPOSED TRIP TO

HELP HIM IN HIS INVESTIGATIONS.

MRS. OROZCO SAIO THAT HER HUSBAND HAD GONE INTO CUBA TO

RESCUE JOSE VASQUEZ NEREY AND 3 OTHERS WHO WERE HIDING IN THE HOME

OF AHOMAN MAMED GLORIA CABRERA WHO LIVEO AT NO.72 27TH STREET BETHEEN

VEDADO, HAVANA.

ADDRESS HAD BEEN GIVEN

''N'" AND '"O'' APT. "TO CROZCO BY HORTENSIA ORIZONDO MENESES

MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT THE

LAGSI SCURCE NO. 180%.

MRS. OROZCO ADDED THAT BOTH SHE AND HER

HUSBAHD HAD KNOWN GLORIA CABRERA IN THE SIERRA MAESTRAS AND THAT

SHE /MRS. CROZCO/ DID HOT TRUST HER BECAUSE '"SHE HAD BEEN COMPLETELY

WITH THE

REGIME UNTIL CHLY A FEW MOISTHS AGO'

MRS. OROZCO TOLD CAS SOURCE THAT HER HUSBAND HAD BEEN

VISITED ABOUT FIVE TIMES BETWEEN 11ID-NOVEMBER AND MID-DECEMBER 1564

BY A PUERTO RICAN WHO IDENTIFIED HIMSELF AS ''JORGE''.

PLIGHT OF JOSE POSET MERE POURING THE SECOND HUSBAND MEETHE

JOSE VASQUEZ NEREY.

''JORGE'' MENTIONED THE NAME

DURTAG THE SECOND OR THIRD MEETINS,

OF ''HCRTENSIA"', LATER IDENTIFIED AS

ORIZONS AS CON THAT TIE ANOECONS CONTACT IN THE MASQUER AFAIR.

ALTHOUGH ''JORGE'' DID NOT AT ANY TIME REPRESENT HIMSELF AS CIA,

MRS: OROZCO ASSUMED THAT ME WAS SENT BY CIA.

THIS ASSUMPTION SHE

PASSED ON TO CAS SOURCE.

''JORGE'' NEVER IDENTIFIED THE ORGANIZA-

TICN WHICH HE REPRESENTED BUT HE DID TELL MRS. CROZCO THAT HE WAS

NOT FROM CIA.

''JORGE'' DID, HOWEVER, CONTINUE TO REPRESENT HIMSELF

AS HAVING OFFICIAL BACKING FROM THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT.

''JORGE'' WAS DESCRIBED AS 5' 6'1 TO 800.

• MEDIUM BUILD, DARK

SLICKED-BACK HAIR WITH NO PART, DARK BROWH EYES, OLIVE

COMPLEXION,

ABOUT 33 YEARS OLD, AND SPEAKING NEAR-PERFECT SPANISH.

THE CAS SOURCE REMARKED THAT A TRIP OF THIS NATURE REQUIRED

A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF MONEY AllO SUPPLIES.

WHO HAD HELPED OROZCO

TO EQUIP IT AND FUEL IT AND TO PROVIDE THE OTHER

NECESSITIES?

ORIZONDO HAD PROVIDEO THE FUNOS.

1AS WILL BE SEEN BELOW, THIS

ALLEGATION THAT ORIZENDO HAS THE PAYMASTER FOR OROZCO'S TRIP IS

SUPPORTED BY A SIMILAR STATEMENT BY ANOTHER CAS SUB-SOURCE TO WHOM

OROZCO TALKED QUITE FREELY ABOUT A MEEK BEFORE HIS DEPARTURE/.

CLASSATICATION

PAGEMO

508 530

3.60

1401

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

CONTINUED

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SIERIT

ATT TO UFGA - 19569 PG 2

CAS SOURCE ASKED MRS. OROZCO INTO WHICH AREA DIO HER

HUSBASID INTENO TO INFILTRATE CUBA.

MRS. CROZCO SAID THAT HE

PLANNED TO GO INTO NORTHEASTERN MATANZAS PROVINCi TO THE MARTI AREA

RHERE HE HAD SEVERAL CONTACTS WHO HAD MELPLO HIM IN THE PAST.

SOURCE PRESSED FOR OTHER DETAILS OF THE ACTUAL SITE OF INFILTRATION

BUT MRS • CROZCO PROTESTED IGNORANCE OF FURTHER DETAILS.

ТНАТ НЕР НУССЬКО ЧО МІТІ МШ ДН СТЕХРЕРТО МОМЕО ТОМАТЕО БО

KNEW THE ARLA COMPLETELY.

/''MATEO'' HAS LATER IDINTIFIED AS

ALBERTO GONZALEZ ORTIZ.

CAS FILES INDICATE THAT GONZALEZ HAS MADE

A NUMBER CF CLANDESTINE TRIPS TO CUBA WHILE CONTRACTING TO BRING

OUT RELATIVES OF EXILES FOR MONEY.

HIS REPUTATICH IS UNSAVORY

BASED UPON THE GENERALLY-ACCEPTED FACT THAT HE HAS ACCEPTED LARGE

SUMS OF. MONEY TO BRING FAMILIES CUT AND HAS FREGUENTLY FAILED TO

MAKE GOCO. HIS PROMISES.

IT IS ALSO A COMMONLY-ACCEPTED FACT AMONG

THE EXILE FISHERMEN THAT GONZALEZ WILL NEVER UNDERTAKE SUCH A TRIP

UNLESS HE HAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY PAID OR IS COMPLETELY CERTAIN THAT THE

MONEY WILL BE MADE AVAILABLE UPON HIS RETURIV.

MRS. CROZCO SAID THAT SHE DID NOT KRCH THE NAME OF HER

HUSBAND'S INTENDED PRIMERY CONTACT IN THE MARTI AREA.

SHE MENTIONED

OF THE BATE MARINO RESTAURANT IN CARDENAS. OROZCO HAD

THAT HE INTENDED TO SEE THESE PERSCHS TO HELP HIM WITH TRA!SPORTATION

TO HAVANA AND TO PROVIDE HIM WITH FUNDS ,MRS. OROZCO CONTENDS --AND

IT IS A SORE POINT WITH HER--THAT OROZCO LEFT WITH ONLY A FEM

COUNTERFEIT PESOS/•

THE HCME OF MARIO GIL GONZALEZ ¡HIS

L GONZALEZ VANS PATRONPHIE HAS ALSO BEEN SPELLED

"'HILL''/: FROM THERE, OROZCO PLANNED TO GO DIRECTLY TO THE

ADDRESS OF THE CABRERA

WOMAN WHICH HE HAD RECEIVED FROM GRIZONDO,

PICK UP VASQUEZ AND GROUP AND LEAVE.

PRS. OROZCO SAID THAT HER HUSBAND TOLO HER THAT HE HOULO

TELEGRAM TO HER AS SOON AS HE REACHED HAVANA SAFELY.

HE WOULD SEND ANOTHER CABLE IN PRE-ARRANGEO

MRS, CROZCO WAS THEN

INCLUSION OF

ON HIS WAY OUT.

MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT ORIZONDO HAD CALLED HAVANA CN 30

DECEMBER 196%, PRESUMABLY TO THE CABRERA WCMAN'S MOME.

VASQUEZ

HIMSELF HAD AHSWERED THE PHONE AND STATED THAT THERE WAS NO NEWS

FROM CROZCO OR FROM ANYONE ELSE. VASQUEZ AND THE GROUP HERE STILL

HAITING FOR CONTACT.

LEFT BEHIND FOR HER SUPPORT.

CAS SOURCE ASKED MRS. OROZCO HOW MUCH MONEY OROZCO HAD

SHE REPLIED THAT HER HUSBAND HAD LEFT

$50.00 BUT THAT HE HAD TOLD HER TO RE-CONTACT ORIZONDO IF SHE

SHOULD NEED HORE.

A CAS SUB-SOURCE REPORTED THAT OROZCO HAD COME TO HIS

HOME ON

12 DECEMBER AND HAD TOLO HIM THAT HE PLANNED TO GO TO CUBA

• TO RESCUE VASQUEZ.

OROZCO SHORLD SUB-SOURCE A REGEIPT FOR ,41.00

FOR REPAIR TO AN OUTBOARD MOTOR.

OROZCO SAID THAT THE BOAT WAS NOT

FAST BUT QUITE SEAWORTHY.

OROZCO SAID THAT ORIZONDO HAD PAID THE

BILL FOR THE MOTOR REPAIRS AMD HAD PROVIDED THE OTHER NECESSARY

FUNDS •

ORCZCO NAMED ORIZONDO AS A PERSON MHOM HE ¡CROZCOS. HAD

BROUGHT OUT OF CUBA AND NHO HAD KORKED IN CUBA UNDER ONE DAVIO

CROZCO TOLD SUB-SOURCE THAT HE HAD REPLIED THAT HE MOULO DO

ANYTHING TO HELP HIS FRIEND VASQUEZ BUT THAT HE MANTED TO KNOW WHO

THE PEOPLE WERE BEHIND HER PORIZONDO/• GRIZONDO HAD REPLIED THAT

SHE WAS GOING TO PUT HIM IN TOUCH WITH A PERSON WHO SPOKE FLUENT

SPANISH BUT WAS NOT CUBAN.

THIS WAS ''JORGE"' AND FRGM WHAT SUS-

SOURCE IS ABLE TO RECENSTRUCT OROZCO MET ''JORGE'" IN A BAR ON

FLAGLER STREET CN THURSCAY MORNING, 10 DECEMBER 1964.

THERE THE

ACCOUNI DE THIS SUB-SOURCE LS SCHENNAI AI VARIANCE ULTH WHAI

---

## Page 4

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASS 84-475598

DEFATCH STARDI DIES NRIBES

AIL TO UFGA - 1956E PG 3

MRS. OROZCO TOLO CAS SCURGEI.

OROZCO TOLD SUB-SOURCE THAT GRIZONDO HAD SET UP THE MEET-

ING FOR WESNESDAY MORNING, S DECEMBIR, WITH THE THO PERSONS SHC

WOULD ACCOMPANY HIM ON THE TRIP.

CROZCO MET THEM CH FLAGLER STREET

AT A SPECIFIC CORNER LHICH CROZCO DIO NOT MENTION TO SUB-SCUREE.

13.

EACH MLMBER OF THE CREN /IT IS UNCLEAR WHETHER OROZCO ACTUALLY RE-

GEIVED THIS SUM OF MONEY FOR HIMSELF AS WELLI PLUS A PROMISE TO

TAKE GARE OF ALL GE TILEIR FAMILIES IF THEY DIO NOT RETURN.

OROZCO CALLED SUB-SOURCE BY TELEPHONE LATE ON THE VENING

OF 14 DECEMBER TO TELL HUM THAT ME HAS ''ON HIS MAY TO THE KEYS'.

OROZCO TOLD SUB-SOURCE THAT THE ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE MONEY AND THE

ASSURANCES TO TAKE CARE OF THE FAMILIES HAD BEEN AGREED YPON.

AT A SECOND MEETING BETWEEN MRS. ORCICO AND CAS SCURCE ON

8 JANUARY, MRS. OROZCO TOLO CAS SCURCE THAT SHE HAD COME INTO THE

POSSESSICN OF SCHE INFORMATION FROM AN UNNAMED FISHERMAN WHO HAD

RECENTLY COME OUT OF CUBA.

THIS INFORMATION INDICATEO THAT SEVERAL

ARRESTS HAD BEEN MADE IN THE SAME AREA IN MICH HER HUSBAHO INTENDED

TO INFILTRATE.

MRS. CROZCO SAID THAT SHE HAD ALSO HEARD A RADIO

BROADCAST THE DAY BEFORE

HAD BEEN PICKED YA LEE CARDENAS/HATANZAS AREA OF MATALLAS PROVINCE.

MRS. OROZCO HAD CALLED ORIZONDO AND INSISTED UPON SEEING 'JORGE'

TO GIVE THIS INFORMATION TO HIM PERSONALLY.

''JORGE'" AND ORIZONDO ARRIVED AT HER HOME ABCUT 2000

7. JANUARY.

MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT SHE TOLD '"JORGE' I THE

INFORMATION ABOUT ARRESTS IN THE AREA AND MENTIONED A PERSON MAMED

"I PEDRO.

MRS. CROZCO SAID THAT ''JORGE'' HAD PRICKED UP HIS EARS

AT THE MENTION OF THE MAME ''PEDRO"'.

THE LAST NAME OF "'PEDRO"'.

''JORGE'' ASKED MRS. CROZCO

MRS. CROZCO REPLIED THAT SHE DID NOT

••JORGE'S ASKED WHAT BUSINESS THIS "•PEDRO WAS IN.

OROZCO SAID THAT SHE THOUGHT THAT 'PEDRO'" CHNED A RESTAURANT IN

CARDERAS, MATANZAS PROVINGE.

ACCORDING TO MRS. OROZCO,

"JORGE""

THEN IDENTIFIED ''PEDRO'" AS PEDRO BARBI /OR BALBIY FEBLES AID

SAID THAT BARBI DID NOT ''WORK WITH THE AMERICANS" OR WITH AHY

ORGANIZATION BUT THAT HE HAD HELPED MANY PEOPLE.

MRS. GROZCO SAID

THAT. THIS PIECE OF NEWS HORRIED HER GREATLY BECAUSE HER HUSBAND

HAO TOLD HER HE INTENDED TO CONTACT THIS PERSON.

ACCORDING TO MRS.

ORIZONDO THEN BROKE INTO THE CONVERSATION TO DECLARE THAT

""HE''', PRESUMABLY MEANING SHE AND "'JORGE Y HAD DONE ALL THE

PLANNING FOR OROZCO'S TRIP AND THAT CRUZCO WAS NOT SUPPOSED TO

CONTAC! BARBE ACCORDING TO THIS PLAN.

MRS. CROZCO REPORTED THAT

''JORGE"• DID NOT COMMENT ABOUT ORIZENDO'S USE OF THE TERM '"WE"'.

THE LICENSE NUMBER OF THE AUTOMGBILE IN WHICH "'JORGE'"

ORIZONDE ARRIVED HAS NOTED AS A NEW YORK PLATE,

BU-5523•

CAR HAS DESCRIBED AS A LARGE FIAT..

THIS LICENSE NUMBER WAS

AND IT HAS REPORTED BY THE NEW YORK MOTOR VEHICLE AUTHORITIES THAT

IT WAS REGISTERED TO ONE LEWIS BURNS, 75 EAST PARADE AVENUE,

BUFFALO, NEW TORR.

THE ONLY OTHER INFORMATION AVAILABLE FROM THE

MOTOR VEHICLE RECOROS. INDICATED THAT BURNS HAS BORN 11-10-900

HE HAS RETIRED ANO THAT THE AUTOMCBILE REGISTERED UNDER THIS NUMBER

HAD BEEN A 1950 BUICK.

MRS. CROZCO SAID SHE THEUGHT THAT THIS WAS

THE SAME CAR '"JORGE' HAD USED ON PREVIOUS VISITS.

MRS. OROZCO SHOMED CAS SCURCE A NOTE WHICH MRS. OROZCO

IDENTIFIED AS HAVING BEEN VRITTEN BY CRIZONDO TO HER HUSBAND

ISEE ATTACHMENT Al. THE NOTE WHICH WAS NOT DATED STATED THAT THE

ACCOMPANYING 500.00 WAS FOR OROZCO TO USE TO BEGIN PREPARATIONS

FOR HIS TRIP.

ANGTHER $200.00 HAS FGRTHCCMING BUT SHE ADVISED

CUASSIFICATIOS

500"530

1...

USE PREVIOUS EDTTOM

CONTINUED

pace na

---

## Page 5

10000

C

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSINCATION

SECRET

ATT TO UFGI-19559 PEE

OROZCO NOT TO TELL THIS TO ''LOS MUCHACHOS"'

CREW MiMBERS.

PRESUMABLY OROZCO'S

THE NOTE MENTICHLO A PERSON AMMEO DOGLDO AND ALSO

MRS. OROZCO REPORTED THAT ORIZCHDO HAD RETURNED TO HER

HOUSE THE MORHUNG AFTIR HER VISIT WITH ''JORGE"'.

MAS. OROZCO SAID

THAT ORIZONDO HAD BEEN VERY WATCHFUL AND THAT IT SEEMLO TO MRS.

OROZCO THAT THE PURPOSE OF ORIZOHDO'S TRIP VAS TO ATTEMPT TO WHITI-

WAFORMNTIRN WAS WOLUNTEERID FREELY TO CAS SOURCE AS AN OESERUATION

INFORMATION MAS VOLUNTEERIO FREELY TO CAS SOURCE AS

OF MRS. OROZCO/ • URIZONDO TOLO MRS. OROZCE THAT 'JORGE'• HAD

ONLY GOME ALONG WITH HER THE PREVIOUS CULMING GECAUSE DIE HAS INTEREST-

ID IN WHAT HAD HAPPENCO TO OROZCO AND THAT HE '"JORGE'" HAD HAD

NOTHING WHATEVER TO DO MITH OROZCO'S TRIP.

MRS. OROZCO REMINDED

ORIZONDO THAT IT HAD BIEH 'JORGE" MMO HAD ORIGINALLY COME TO SEE

CROZCO TO TELL HIM ABOUT VASQUEZ'S PLIGHT AND THAT 'JORGE'" HAD

VISITED OROZCO SEVERAL TIMES THEREAFTER.

HOW WAS IT POSSIBLE THAT

"JORGE'• HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH CROZCO'S TRIP, ASKLO MAS. CROZCO.

CRIZONDO PROTESTED THAT •JORGE "' WAS ONLY INVOLVED IN TRYING TO

GET INFORMATION ABOUT VASQUEZ.

MRS. CROZCO REMARKED SCMETHING TO THE EFFECT THAT SHE

DID NOT KNOW IF ORIZONDO CONSIDERED HER A COMPLETE FOOL BUT SHE

IMRS. OROZCO/ KNEW THAT SUCH A TRIP REQUIRED A CONSIDERABLE AMOUNT

OF MONEY,

AT LEAST $ 1060.00,

AND THAT SHE WAS CERTAIN THAT ORIZONDO

CAD NOT HAVE THAT KIND OF MONEY OF HER CUN.

CRIZONDO REPORTEDLY

REPLIED THAT SHE HAD RAISED THE MONLY FROM FRIENDS.

MRS. OREZCO

PERSISTED AND STATEO THAT SHE WAS COMPLETELY SURE IN HER OWN MIND

THAT IT HAD BEEN ''THIS GENTLEMAN JORGE'' HO HAO SUPPLIED THE

MONEY.

ORIZONDO DID NOT ANSWER.

ISEE PARA 26 BELOW IN WHICH MRS.

OROZCO CLAIMED TO HAVE OVERHEARD A CONVERSATION BETWEEN "'JORGE""

AND CROZCO IN WHICH ''JORGE'' STATED HE COULO NOT SUPPORT OROZCO'S

TRIP DIRECTLY BUT COULD SUPPLY FUNDSI.

MRS. OROZCO TOLD ORIZONDO THAT SHE HAS STILL UNCERTAIN OF

SO JORGES"I

CREDENTIALS.

MRS. GROZCO TOLD ORIZONDO THAT HER

HUSBAND HAD HAD GREAT TRUST IN ORIZONDO AND SHE /MRS. OROZCE/

REALIZED THAT ANYTHING ORIZONDO WAS INVOLVED IN WAS TO HER HUSBAND'S

BEST ADVANTAGE BUT AT THE SAME TIME SHE COULD NOT BRING HERSELF TO

FEEL THE SAME CONFIDENCE IN ''JORGE'' AS SHE FELT IN ORIZONDO.

ORIZONDO TOLD MRS. OROZCO THAT ''JORGE'" HAS NOT CUSAN PUT PUERTO

RICAN, AN AMERICAN CITIZEN WHO WORKED FOR THE '"PENTAGOH''.

ORIZONDO SAID THAT SHE HERSELF HAS NOT ACTIVELY WORKING FOR THE

¡'PENTAGON'' ANY LONGER BUT THAT THERE ARE TIMES WHEN HER FORMER

EMPLOYERS NEED HELP AT WHICH TIMES THEY CALL UPON HER / ORIZONDO.

ARS - OORCES MOREO FOR THES APO MASON LO HER THAT BOTH ORIZONDO

ANY MONEY THAT SHE NEEDED TO SUPPORT THE FAMILY..

SECRANE CRIZONDO HAD GIVEN MRS. OROZCO S100.0O TO PAY HER RENT

/FOR WHICH SUM MRS. OROZCO OID NOT SIGN A RECEIPTI• ORIZONDO ALSO

TOLO MRS, OROZCO THAT ''JORGE'' WOULD BE OUT OF TOWN FOR AN UN-

SPECIFIED PERIOD.

OROZONDO PAID MRS. OROZCO ANOTHER VISIT ON 11 JANUARY.

APOTHER SUB-SCURCE PAID A SOCIAL VISIT TO MRS. CROZCO ON

THE EVENING OF 11 JANUARY.

CROZCO SHOWED THIS SUB-SOURCE THE

SAME NOTE WHICH INDICATED THAT CRIZONDO HAD GIVEN ORCZCO

FOR THE INITIAL PREPARATIONS FOR HIS TRIP. MRS. OROZCO TOLD THIS

this!

CLASSITICATION

IPAGENO

500" 530

B60

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

---

## Page 6

4-00000

-к"'

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFiCATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND ALBIGER

UFGA- 19562 ATT

PG5

SUB-SOURCE THAT BOTH GRIZONDO AND ''JORGE' HORK FOR THE PENTAGON

AND ALSO MENTINED ORIZONCO'S VISITS CH E AND 11

CRIZONDO ATTIMPTED TO DISCLAIM ANY PART FOR HERS:LF OR A JORGE A 1I8

OROZCO'S TRIP.

MRS. CROZCO TOLD THIS SUB-SOURCE THAT GiE WAS GOING

TO PUT PRESSURE UPON THISE REPRISENTATIVES OF THE PENTAGON

/GRIZONDO AND "'JORGE'"; TO KITHER GET HER HUSBAND OUT OF CUBA OR

FAILING THAT TO BUY HIM OUT.

25. ''JORGE'' PAID AN UNANNOUNCED VISIT TO MRS. CROZCO ON 13

JANJARY.

NAME WAS NOT 'JORGE' BUT

DURING THIS VISITE TORRES"'"

HE CONFIDED TO MRS. CROZCO THAT HIS

''TORRES"" SAID THAT HIS

ORGANIZATION HAD NOT BEEN INTERESTED IN VASQUEZ BUT IN TWO AGENTS

/HE USED THE TERM ''AGENTES'' I WHO WERE IN HIDING

IN THE SAME HOUSE

WITH VASQUEZ.

AT WHICH POINT MRS. CROZCO ASKED "'TORRES"' HOW HE

HAPPENED TO KNOW ABOUT THIS IF HIS CLAIM WERE TRUE THAT HE HAD

NOTHING TO DO MITH HEQ HUSBAND'S TRIP. "TORRES"" MADE ME REPLY.

ACCORDING TO MRS. OROZCO.

MRS. CROZCO THEN COMMENTED THAT SHE KNEW FROM PERSONAL

EXPERIENCE HOW DIFFICULT IT WAS TO RAISE EVEM A FEW HUNDRED DOLLARS

IN THE EXILE COMMUNITY.

SHE SAID THAT SHE KMEW CRIZCHOO DID NOT HAVE

THE $1000.00 CR MORE WHICH HAD BEEN SPENT FOR HER MUSBAND'S TRIP.

THIS LED HER TO THE CONCLUSION, MRS. OROZCO SAID,

THAT AS TORRESI

AND HIS ORGANIZATION HAD SUPPLIED THE FUNDS. AGAIN THERE WAS NO

REPLY FROM ''TORRES"".

¿ON 11 JANUARY 1964. MRS. GROZCO TOLO SAME

GAS SCURCE MENTICNED IN INITIAL PARAGRAPHS THAT

SHE HAD OVERHEARD A

CONVERSATION BETWEEN HER HUSBAND AND ''TORRES'' A WEEK OR THO BEFORE

OROZCO'S DEPARTURE IN HHICH ''TORRES'" TOLD ORGICO THAT HE COULD

SUPPORT HIS TRIP ''DIRECTLY'" BUT COULD PROVIDE MONEY WHICH

OROZCO COULD USE TO MAKE HIS ONM PREPARATIONS/.

MRS • OROZCO SAID THAT SHE HAD HAD TWO SPECIFIC PROPOSALS

HUSBAND THAT HE WAS STILL HONE QUAT A MERESVERE PRCAMZAT FOOM HER

SEND A BOAT IN TO HELP HIM EXFILTRATÉ..

' TORRES"

• CREANIZATION

THE OTHER WAS THAT IF IT

BECAME CONFIRMED THAT HER HUSBAND HAS A PRISONER.

ORGANIZATION NEGOTIATE FOR HIS RELEASE THROUGH DIPLOHATIC CHANNELS.

45 PARY OF THIS LAST PROPCSAL, MRS. OROZCO SUGGESTED THAT SHE BE

PROVIDED WITH SUFFICIENT MONEY TO TRAVEL TO MEXICO TO TAKE UP HER

TUSBAND'S CASE PERSONALLY WITH THE PRESIDENT OF MEXICO.

''TORRES""

SAID THAT ME HAD TO TAKE THE MATTER UP WITH HIS URGANIZATION.

•S TORRES'& RE-EMPHASIZED THAT HE PERSONALLY HAD HAD NOTHING TO DO

MITH HER HUSBAND'S TRIP.

HE WAS STILL ATTEMPTING TO USE ALL THE

RESOURCES AT HIS COMMAND TO FIND OUT WHAT HAD HAPPENLO TO OROZCO

AND WATLE HE HAS VERY SORRY ABOUT HER HUSBAND'S MISFORTUNE, HE

STATED THAT IT HAD BEEN CROZCO'S OMN DECISION TO GO ON THIS TRIP.

UPON LEAVING, MRS. OROZCO TOOK NOTE OF THE LICENSE

NUMBER ON •TORRES! .

BLÄCK VOLKSWAGEN.

SHE ASSUMED BUT COULD MOT

BE CERTAIN THAT IT WAS A FLORIDA LICENSE PLATE, NC.6801304 OR 680

ACCORDING TO A CAS' INVESTIGATIN, THE PREFIX 11680'1

REPRESENTS A PLATE BLOCKED AT THE TALLAHASSEE LEVEL FOR THE COVERT

USE OF THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT.

ORIZONDO VISITED MRS. OROZCO LATER THAT

SAME EVENING OF

13 JANUARY.

SHE SEEMED SURPRISED TO LEAR' THAT • JORGE' MAD

VISITED MRS. OROZCO EARLIER THAT DAY.

ORIZONDO ATTEMPTED TO CON-

VINCE ARS. OROZCO THAT THE

MENTIONEO IN A NOTE SHE HAD LEFT

OROZCO'S IN THE REBEL-ARMY-IN-EXILE GRGANIZATION

FOR OROZCO WAS ONE JORGE MAYO /OR MALLO/ CARDOS 'EJERCITO

A FRIEND OF

LIBERTADOR': TO WHICH ANOTHER GLOSE FRIEND OF CROZCO'S, JOSE LOPEZ

LEGON AKA "'PEPE EL TORO'' BELONGS.

MRS, CROZCO REMARKED TO

ORIZONDO THAT SHE DID NOT ANCH HOW STUPID GRIZONDO CONSIDERED HER TO

BE BUT THAT SHE WAS COMPLETELY CERTAIN THAT THE ''JORGE'" MENTIONED

IN THE NOTE MAS THE SAME

'JORGE'' WHO HAD VISITED HER AMD HER

MRS. OROZCO ALSO TOLD ORIZCHDO THAT ''JORGE'' HAD TOLD

HER THAT HIS NAME WAS SITORRES" ORIZONDO CONFIRMED THAT THIS

HAS HIS NAME.

QASSINICATION

PAGE NQ

10 53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

CONTINUED

---

## Page 7

14-00000

CLASSIRILATIOIE

LISPATCH STUETI AND MUSASER

CONTINUATION OF

SECRET

ATT TO UFGA -19569 PG 6

IN ATTEMPTING TO RE-CONSTRUCT HOW MUCH MONEY WAS SPENT TO

PREPARE THE BOAT AND EQUIPMENT FOR GROZCO'S TRIP.

IT APPEARS LIKELY

THAT GROZCO WAS EXAGGERATING WHEN HE SAID THAT HE HAD ASKED FOR

ANO RECEIVED , 406.00 FOR EACH MEMBER OF THE CREW. MRS. GROZCO HAS

STATED THAT OROZCO HAD GIVEN THEM EACH $20C. 9O AND SHE

THOUGHT BUT

WAS NOT COMPLETELY CERTAIN THAT HE HAD LATER GIVEN EACH OF THEM AN

ADDiTIONAL UNSPECIFIED SUM.

STARTING WITH THE FIGURE OF $700.00

WHICH IS MENTICHED IN THE ATTACHED NOTE FROM CRIZONDO, IT APPEARS

SAFE TO SAY THAT MOST IF HOT ALL OF THAT SUM WOULD HAVE BEEN PAID

OUT FOR FUEL LAT LEAST 50 GALLONS SINCE IT HAD BEEN A 50-GALLON TANK

WHICH MAD EXPLODEO AND HAD TO BE REPLACEDI, FOOD FOR ONE WEEK, THE

ITEMS /KNIVES, PONCHOS,

CANTEENS, FATIGUE UNIFORMS, AMMUNITION, ETC.

WHICH MRS. OROZCO CLAIMS OROZCO BOUGHT IN AM ARMY/NAVY STCRE PLUS

OTHER MISCELLANEOUS BUAT ITEMS.

ADD TO THIS 5700.00, THE $200.00

APIECE FOR THE THO FISHERMEN IMHICH COULD HAVE BEEN MORE/, THE

$41.00 FOR THE REPAIR OF THE BOAT ENGINE, THE ESTIMATED 3100,00 TO

PEOLACE THE SO GALLUN FUEL TANK,

THE $100.0U GIVEN TO MRS. CROZCO

BY ORIZONDO,

AND THE TOTAL 1A CONSERVATIVE ONE AT THATA AMCUNTS TO

APPROXIMATELY $1341.00.

MRS. CROZCO SAID THAT SHORTLY BEFORE HER

HUSBAND'S DEPARTURE,

ONLY S125.00 REMAINED OF THE INITIAL SUM.

THE GROUP LEFT FOR THE MARATHON ARLA A DAY BEFORE THEIR ACTUAL DE-

PARTURE ANO HAD TO RETURN TO MIAMI BECAUSE THEY HAD FORGOTTEN THE KEYS

TO THE BOAT. MRS. CROZCO SAID THAT THE $50.00 SHE RECEIVED FROM

HER HUSBAND WAS TAKEN FROM THE REMAINING $125.00 AND SHE ASSUMES THAT

THE BALANCE OF $75.CO WAS SPENT FOR MOTEL ROOMS IN THE KEYS AND FOR

OTHER LAST-MINUTE PURCHASES. THE ONLY ITEMS FURNISHED TO OROZCO,

ACCORDING TO HIS WIFE, WERE AN M-I RIFLE AND AN M-I CARBINE WHICH

ORIZONDO HAD GIVEN MIM /MRS. CROZCO THOUSHT THAT THEY HAD HAD TO

BUY THE AMMUNITION FOR THESE WEAPONS/, AND A PISTOL OF UNIDENTIFIED

MAKE BY LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA OF THE MOC /CHAISTIAN DEMOCRATIC

MOVEMENTI WHO ALSO GAVE OROZCO A MEANS OF ENTREE TO THE FRENCH

AMBASSADOR IN CUBA IF HE SHOULD RUN INTO UNFORESEEN DIFFICULTIES.

OROZCO ALSO BOUGHT OR RECEIVED FROM SOME UNNAMED SOURCE AN UNKNOWN

AMOUNT OF COUNTERFEIT PESOS.

AS ATTACHMENT B TO THIS MEMORANDUM, A COPY OF ANOTHEF

NOTE FROM ORIZONDO TO OROZCO RECOMMENDING AN INDIVIDUAL KHO COULD

PROVIDE A BOAT FOR HIS INFILTRATION IS APPENDED FOR YOUR REFERENCE.

THIS INDIVIDUAL IS BELIEVEO TO BE AGSI SOURCE NO. 693.

CAS WOULD APPRECIATE ACSI COMMENTS ON THE ABOVE PARAGRAPHS,

PARTICULARLY AS THESE CONTAIN CERTAIN ALLEGATIONS AGAINST ''JORGE'•

AND ORIZONDO.

SINCE IT IS NOW APPARENT THAT •'JORGE'' AND "'TORRES"

ARE ONE AND THE SAME, IT IS BELIEVED THAT FURTHER INVESTIGATION INTO

THE IDENTITY OF THIS

INDIVIOUAL IS UNNECESSARY•

QLASSIFICATION

PACENO

500* 530

3.60

1401

USE PREVIOUS EDTION

COAMNUEO

---

## Page 8

114.00000

1, CONTINUATION OF

• DISPATCH

CLASSINNCATION

SEGRET

CÉFETCH SYNGOL AE DISTELA

ATT A TO UFGA -19569 PG 6

BEBO •

1 AM LEAVING YOU $500 SO THAT YOU CAN GO TO SEE ALDO EARLY AND

BEGIN THE PREPARATICHS. TONIGHT I WILL HAVE $200 MORE AMD I HILL

TRY TO OBTAIN THE REST.

FIND OUT IF THEY CBTAINED SOME MONEY, !

DIDN'T SAY ANYTHING ABOUT THIS BUT IT WOULD BE ECHVENIENT ANYWAY.

JORGE WAS HERE TONIGHT. YOU CAN COME TOMORROW MIGHT TO ARRANGE ALL

THE CETAILS.

TAKE CARE OF THE TANK AS YOU THINK IS BEST.

SINCE YOU ALREADY

BAD WEATHER

PAID FOR IT'IT IS DEST TO WAIT.

YOU CAN PICK IT UP AND TELL THE BOYS THAT DUE TO THE

IN ORDER TO AVOID HAVING THE

''RUMOR"' SPREAD DOWN FLAGLER STREET, I DON'T THINK IT IS CONVENIEHT

TO SAY ANYTHING ON THIS OTHER MATTER

TO THE EJYS UNTIL LATER ON.

THINK ABOUT IT AND SEE WHAT IS BEST ON THIS MATTER.

"i""

.:.

...

CLASSIFICATION

PACK Ma

530

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

1400

CONTINURO

---

## Page 9

$ 4.00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSITIATION

SECRET

DISPATON STAROL AND ASTELA

ATT 8 TO UFGA- 19569 PG I

BEBO •

HE HAS RECOMMENDED TO

VERGARITA SATO THAT HE HAS A BOAT READY TO SAIL._

HE AS A VERY SERICUS PERSCH,

AND IT IS

MAYBE YCU KNCH

AS I CANNOT SEE YOU OR DO ANYTHING DURING THE DAY, I MADE

I TOLD HIM TO GO TO

YOU CAN THEM

APPROACH HIM AND ASK HIM IF HE IS VERGARITA, AND YU IDENTIFY

CURSELF AS MARQUIES. HE IS A YCUNG MAN, HAS CHE TOOTH MISSING.

IF YOU THINK HE IS GOOD,

SPEAK TO HIM, FIND OUT WHAT HE HAS AMD

HOW MUCH HE ASKS FOR THE TRIP.

I#8 ANY EVEHT, WHEN YOU GET HOME AND YOU READ THIS NOTE, CALL

ME AND LET ME KNOW IF YOU ARE GOING TO SEE HIM. ALSO LET ME KNOW

WHETHER YOU HAVE ARRANGED SOMETHING ELSE.

recessed poe

tie.

"?.

ir-

FORM

3-60

530

HO

CLASSIFICATION

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

CONTINUED

---

