# 104-10227-10271

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10227-10271

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INTED SPITES DECARTMENT OF JOSTICE

PE11P:R.N1.

"THANG DEINDESPIENTION

CONT IDENTIAL

f'ile Nes.

FoUruary 25,

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

INTENAL SECURITY - CUBA

da robruary 21, 1963, a confidontinl intormant,

who has furnishod reliablo Intormation in tho past, advisod

that ho bad joarnod that carlos Alojos, Guatenalan Ambassador

to tho Unftod states, lad contactod Miguel Yaigoras-Fuentes

for the purposo of advising him that Jaso litro Cardona,

prosidont ox: the cuban lievolutionary Couscil, an organtration

opposed to fidel Castro, Cuban Filoo Miniator, ind apologizod

sor not koopins an appolathont ho had boen trantod vita

Xa1goras-Fuontes.

cardong statod that he had been extronely

Improssod with what Idigoras-ruontes had dano lor Cuba and

told Alojon that thase individuala who had said that ydigorea

Fuentes had to bo ronoved had already boon expolled from

Cardona's group.

Yditorna-Fuentos commentod that tho

moating Cardona had sissod vas a sootind of all tuportant

cuban loadors sho vont to cuatenaln to slin u agrooment.

Alojon Indicatod that Cardona vishod to deo Ydicaras-Fuentos

1n ordor to nollove any misundorstanding and Ydicoras-Fuontos

agrood to sea Cardona anytino ho gould coso to quatonala.

its Instructod Alejos to issuo Cardona a vios at his roquest.

Tho position of Carlos Alojos was vorifiod through

the "Diplonatic Ulst' dated lovemior, 1962, published by tho

Unitod states Departmant of stato.

Miguel Ydigoras-Fuentos 1s the President of

Guatemala.

Thil:: decument contalas nosthor

roomedit ican nor concludions of

it !: the triparty of

il en: its contents ire not to bu

distributed

outridn

COME IDENTIAL // 2425

GROUP 1

Exaluded fros autozatlo

• COPY

---

