# 104-10073-10074

## Page 1

1104-10073-10074

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

Chief, Task Force W

ZASSITICATIO

•ECRГТ

ARO

PROCESSING

- ACTOM

MARRED FOR MOLIINA

ACCOM

mom Chief of Station, UNWAVT ARK

CAN NOGI METING

LASTRACT

ACROFILM

aroperational /CYROST:/AMCUTLEF

A AMCUTLER-1 Progress

ACTION ACQUIMO ARTERENCTS

Feport for November

20d December 1262.

Action Required: for vour information.

Reference:

WrAefr17, dated 23 November 1742.

Develorments:

1. MCUTLUF-l': elforts during the reporting period were directed

(a) supporting the

ANTAUNA operation; and (b) developing new

KUTUBE operations.

In support ol the AMiAUNA cieration, he has been investirating

AMFAUNA-4, for which purpose he has interviered seven "asons in

who presumably should have

known A'TAlNA-" but did not, and two indi-

viduals in New York who did lnow him. (ree ufr.a-7118.)

ANCUTLERal has also reported a potential courier channel

•ANTAUNA-1, uSing:

Al:

Gonzalo

a:: Djioor.

Brazilian citizer

Horn ca,ya915

residenceN N... Suiscayne Plul, Miami, fla.

nocupation: Emplovice of Eraziliand Consulatel

and his brother

PAHiLEM Marting:

:

Occupation:

Once a month a pouch passes between the Frazilian consulate in Miami

ang

the Embassy in

Havana, and AMCUTLER-1 has

of it to

for posting in lavana to AMCUTLER-?.

send

The two sElenrothers are

letters

personal friends of AMCUTLER-] and AMCUTLER-2,

- DUE AMCUTLER-1

does

not

(Continued)

Distribution:

7 - Headquärters

¡ CROSS REFERENCE TO

DATE TIPID

9 Jan. 63

JAN

DISPATON PRESCE NEO

МОЛЕВЕЯ

UFGA- 7171

MADQUARTERS INI MUMMERA

DATT DEIAAICHED

10F.3

680w

CLASSiFICATION

SECRET

819-6-74/3

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

# 09593

---

## Page 2

14 10000

BONTINUATION A

DISPATCH

S. E C.R.E. I.

UFGA-7171

baddove that they would yet be willing to carry or send any obvious

capionage natorial.

He does believe that they would be willing

quiry canned good to AMCUTLER-?,

and this is being explored, with the

Idea of concealing. money, maps, etc. in the tin cans.

For the purpose of trying to develop new KUTUbE operationa.

AMCUTLER-1 has been following up leads given him by his case officer.

•He has interviewed

CONTACT Sub. of 201-

993865

from whom

h

Former manager Motel Las Cuevas, Trinidas

Residence N122 S.W.

Ith AVge, Miani, Ela.

obtained twistathlligence reports; and

passed AMCUTLER-1 tO

Luis

ka "El Terrible

4th Sten Art. 8, Maamse FLA

who gave additional information on the caves which, he said, are the

property of his brother-in-law

CIT: CubA

DiOnARiO SUGARTE, AilUGA

-Ir. iNfo. ON Subs pRopERTy

SiXtO HUGARTEN

Anita

PERRASTE BeTaneOUrT. ALCANdELARIT, PAAR

Tart Rice Cretes

"who still lives in the area.

mothen-in-law now regident in Spain is a son ol

MCUTLER-I roported that his friend "Pepe" GONZALEZ, WhOse

ini

has received word that PEDEMONTi i8 looking for a way to leave

the only JHwav

8r.100 On PEDEMONTE 18 containod in HKH-02664 Of 15 April 1960.

Inusted by 0n?

On 22 December 196: AMCUTLER-1 reported that

he had been

"ChaGuO" aMONTES CIT CUbA

Cuban citizen

CONTACT subio + 201-293865

Residenti puerto Rico

1 JAN. 63

to join à maritino expedition ainad against tanker traffic on the south

coast.of Cuba, with the further objective of seizing a cuban rigate

with the cooporation of its captain..

Details were sent to Headquarters

in WAVE-2749 of 22 December, in the hope that it might be possible to

make a tentative identification of the naval officer involved.

informed they can a pen cemete that to had been

Pedro Luis

DIAL LANE CIT: CabA

CouPoeT Seo. +8261-293865

that two individuals named

---

## Page 3

14-00000

•CONTINUATION OP

DISPATCH

301-342-5781

ATCHO

SECRE

UFGA - 71%1

6FR CIT. CubA

Trainaldo LOPEZ Lina 501-342556

aTicuse

"Der 9ís950

Enrige

*CEIJAS

7201-288850

had juat approached him with the offer to sell him some woapons

allogadly

belonging) to KUBARK which were

stored on an unidentified

kay and valued at several thousand dollars.

LOPEZ and CEIJAS told

Diaz/ that an armed naid on the key would have to be simulated

80 that

sugbiolon would not fall on than,

and that the raja woula davo to be

glind off on ofthon une night of 25 Dacomber or 31 Decamberswhen one

o? the other of the men would bo on guard duty at the key. dial/nad

turned down the offer.

were indood. of interest to KUBARK, and that AMIABBY Underwazor

Demolition Jean was possibly involved. Appropriate defengive measure®

ware immediatoly taken.

sub. of 201-293845 wih-iffeR to sEll him

Production:

EUTAPONS BELONGING I, US GOU: AgENCY.

8. The following reports vers disseminated during the period:

UFG-1955

"Roaction to current Crisis within Cuba"

UFG-2098

"Posaible Military Use of Cavas near Trinidad,

Las Villas"

UFG-2143

"Identification of Two Cavos near Trinidad,

Las Villas which Could be Used for

Military. Purposea"

UFGT -2823

"Passenger Manifests for Flights to & From Cuba".

Costa:

9.

The following expenses were incurred during the period on

behalf of the operation:

Two months' salary

Use of pov

Meeting expensos

$500.00

80.00

20.2?

$546.22

Future Plang

10. No change.

END OF DISPATCH

ARE CARO

Уж

CLAESITICATION

---

