# 104-10073-10113

## Page 1

AAAr

104-10073-10113-

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 •

(54-31764141

2 MARCH É1

Г'):

DITACION UP SPACIAL

Inspector Ganeral

USAF

1ttene10n: dr. Gilbart

Insputy Directoi,

Plans,

SUDJECTS: LING Lindady

REINEN Melns Tharior

Investigatione

¡avy

52

i.

Felerance 14 made iu the telaphone requent dated 24

Fabruary 1901, o1 Major Malone for Information concerning

Lindee! LING

and 1e1n9

Theodor *JINER.

The filen contain

Information concerning the subjocts of your

Г0Q1E81.

According to, Infornation from an/official Portuguese

LING was contactad In late August 1900 1a Banta Marla,

the Asorea, by Ploy GUTIERREZ Manoyo, a Cuban National, and

Ralal DroUably RalaoLA'HERNANDEZ, a Cuban diplomat.

to have bean

military

supportor of fidel

and to be amployed by CASTRO possibly as a G2 agent.

August 1939 he hed infiltrated the ranks of cortaln anti-CASTA)

conspiratore and deliverad the loadors up to the Cuban Dovern-

3.

The portuguone sorrice further reported in September 1960

thar Lindsey Lifo,

Ria LINi Lind Soy, vas the managor of a Chineso

restaurant locatod at rua Valaverdo 9, Hadrid, Spain, and that the

rentaurant uno orned by a second (unidentified) Calnoso, mho vas

also supplying clothing

tu the united segros perocanol

Lajoe Base in the Agoros.

'boudor BeingWIthER, the had ropresentec

the clothing fira in the

Asores, pas reportadly arrested there lo

Docember 1059 on a guspicio of

esplonage,

and tas,

as of septenbor

1860,

reportedly in Barmuda

where

LING vas plauning to go to

Inrootigate setting up another restaurant.

Lo: 4i The 11lo0 contain no ferther information concerning sul

Jocto

than

that which 1s already bolloved to do contained in your

CSCI-3/764.141

23

RID/CB: JWE/ RQ/Jrg

1(2942-712)

Based on: 2QFPltZ2605,

13 dan. 61

LISB-182T (IN 12873), 15 Sept. 60

15-1

#0975.

---

