# 104-10107-10178

## Page 1

104-10107-10178

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

#CLASSIFIED

2NAl

ILY

ROUTING AND RECORD

"HEST

TIAL

SUBJECT: (Oplional)

JETTER OF INDEMNITY FORCOLLINS RADIO) 29

EXTENSION

0 42,7

NO. DIV/D-51.1/76

DAE 1.7 November 1976

SECRET

FROM:

William F. Donnelly

Acting Chief, Division D

TO: ¡Oficer designation, ion mumber, erd

building)

1.

DATE

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

cominchts (rumüer each commer la stion froni sutom

to velloin.

Dros a line across coloma alter sort carmenil

FORWARDED

OGC

2.

CEO SUBJ: LIAISON-NON-COVERNMENTAL

BY HIND

x6967

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

3.

9.

10.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

AC/ DIVD

11.

i2.

13.

14.

15.

10R4

3-12

11 USE PREVICH

SECRET

CONMIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE DULY

---

## Page 2

4-00000

(

DIV/D-511/76

17 November

1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Office of General Counsel

FROM

SUBJECT

: William F: Donnelly

Acting Chief, Division D

: Letter of Indemnity for Collins Radio)

1.

letters.

We would appreciate your signing the attached

06,08.

Mr. Yuckey, Vice President and General Marager)

of Collins Government Telecommunications Division, has

agreed to conduct certain research and development work

n behalt of an Agency proprietary provided this Agenc

uarantees all agreements entered into by Collinsan

the proprietary.

The attached letters will serve

this

purpose.

The unclassified letter will be for Mr. (Yockey's)

retention. The classified letter will be shown for his

information and written acknowledgnent and then returned

to Agency files.

WH. Donnelle

William F. Donnelly

Attachments:

As Stated

17u23

F2 TAPDET

CI. BY 011310

oe.e.

---

## Page 3

4-00000

10S VERGEY

LEOMEN

29 November 1976

06

Dear Mr. (Yockey,

≥4

This letter

acknowledges that the Liechtenstein

is tale strumental yet united states overnment. J

This Agency,

as the true party in interest, stands

behind

all ofticial agreements of the Anstalt ande

guarantees its credit?

This classified letter will be retained in the

files of this Agency for safekeeping, but will be

available to you or your authorized

representatives

at any reasonable time.

The United States Government

appreciates your cooperation in this matter relative to

the

national security.

Sincerely,

9. Copte

Anthony A. Lapham

General Counsel

Acknowledged

06

(Sonata J. Yockey):

4 1p

167 822021

---

## Page 4

14.00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

29 November 1976

06

Dear Mr. (Vockey)

lour company may enter into contractual agreements

involving this Agency.

A classified letter of even

date herewith describes arrangements relating to these

agreements and is held in the files of this Agency for

safekeeping and has been acknowledged by you.

This

classified letter is available for your inspection or

the inspection of a representative of your company

at

any reasonable time.

This Agency appreciates your cooperation in this

matter relative to the national security.

Sincerely,'

Outhing e haplan

Anthony A. Lapham

General Counsel

TVINNO

T;75-1310

(3)

---

