# 104-10065-10358

## Page 1

AAAA

1104-10065-1035

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

/09/

SECRET

FRP: i.,

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

ACTION: IP/DP-9 (791) INFO: FILE, RF, ODPD-D, (11/W)

780705837

PAGE 001

TOR: 1612467 MAY 78

BRUS 51113

ASCA

SECRET 161212Z MAY 78 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

CITE BRUSSELS 51113 (GOERLICH ACTING)

L. TO:

WASHINGTON.

FOR: EUR/BN INFO EURIA, SA/DO/O, DO/EURINN.

SUB: WINTEL (NIFLAIR NIGALE - FLEMISH ORDER OF MILITANTS

REFS:

A.

B.

WASHINGTON 213077

BRUSSELS 51014 0661601

1. NITRUST HAS RESPONDED ORALLY TO OUR NOTE CONCERNING

PASSAGE OF NIGALE INFORMATION ON THE VLAAMSE MILITANTENORDE

(VMO) TO THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS.

GIST OF HIS

COMMENT: HE WILL NOT PASS US INFORMATION ON POSSIBLE VMO-

AMCIT CONTACTS, BECAUSE THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT WILL

PLACE SUCH INFORMATION AT RISK; AND IN GENERAL HE WILL NOT

APPROVE PASSAGE OF NIGALE) INFORMATION ON THE UMO TO CONGRESS

BECAUSE HE HAS INSUFFICIENT ASSURANCE THAT THE MATERIAL WILL

NOT LEAK, DESPITE OUR ASSURANCES THAT THE SUBJECT WOULD BE

HANDLEO AS CLASSIFIED AND SENSITIVE.

WE ARE AWAITING WRITTEN REPLY TO LEARN WHETHER THERE

ANY GIVE IN NITRUST ATTITUDE.

RE AMCIT ASPECT, WE SUSPECT

THERE IS MEASURE OF POSTURING ON NITRUST'S SIDE.

IN REF B

ACOS/NIGALE -75 DISCUSSION, LATTER REMARKED THAT

TO BEST HIS

KNOWLEDGE THE ONLY KNOWN UMO CONNECTION WITH AMERICAN WAS

INCIDENT IN ABOUT EARLY 1977 WHEN ORGANIZATION MET BRIEFLY

WITH AIN AMERICAN NAZI PARTY MEMBER WHO HAD BEEN EXPELLED FROM

UK AND PASSED THROUGH BELGIUM.

HE DISCUSSED THE CASE WITH US

AT THE TIME (NAME OF TRAVELLER NOT RECALLED BY N-75) OR ACOS).

THERE IS NO WAY WE CAN DISLODGE NITRUST'S OBVIOUS

SET ON THE CONGRESSIONAL SITUATION.

QUESTION OF CONGRESS

ASIDE, IF HEADQUARTERS CAN PROVIDE SPECIFICS ON FOIA MECHANICS

WHICH WE CAN USE TO COUNTER NITRUST'S ASSERTION THAT RTACTION

CANNOT PROTECT LIAISON SOURCES PROVIDING INFORMATION ON

AMERICANS, WE WOULD BE HAPPY TO MAKE SUCH POINTS WITH NITRUST.

SECRET

# 05970

---

## Page 2

14-00,000

SECRET

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

78 0705837

PAGE 002

TOR: 161246Z MAY 78

BRUS 51113

ME IS OF COURSE AWARE DF OUR "SOURCES AND METHODS" POSITION,

BUT IT'S CLEAR THAT HE'S NOT PERSUADED THAT WE ARE HOLDING THE

LINE.

4. FILE: (08-002-00913.

E2 IMPDET.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

(

---

