# 104-10433-10050

## Page 1

1104-10433-10050

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

TO

Chief

INFO.

Chief

FROM

CLASSFICATION

Chief

SUBJECT

O Transmittal of Memo to Legal Attache

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES .

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESX

CAM JUDGE INDEXIMS

MICROFILA

Please transult to the Legal Attache the attached memo

which 1a In response to his Inquiry-of 17. March 1966.

Attachnent:

each me barten tuther kas, 35.

Distribution:

200

2 - Calef,

1208-7609661

COPY

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date -9 2al 1978

CROSS REFERENCE TO

latt

DISPATCH SYMBOL ANO NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION."

201 760466

DATE

30 Narch 1966

HQS FILE NUMBER

59

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

We have no Information that Subject appeared at s

rally in

to date, nor does the Embassy have knowledge

of a future visit of KING to

Any future information which becones available will

be forwarded to you. We have also taken due note of your

desire that the

authorities not know of your

Interest in Subject's activitles.

COPY

it?

---

## Page 3

13-00000

DISPAICH

CLA: SIFICATION

TO

I*¿FO.

FROM

SUBJECT

O Transmittal of Meno to Legal Attache,

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

COORDINATE LAST SENTENCE

OF ATTACHMENT WITH FBI

M'APAED FOR INDEXIT

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Please transmit to the Legal Attuche the ettached zero

which is In response to his inguiry of 17 Karch 1955.

Metachient:

l'eno re Martin Luther King,

Distribution:

DOCUMENT AS REFEREED TO SBL

CROSS REFERENCE TO

latt

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

DATE

CLASSIFICATION

30 March 1955

HOS FILE NUMBER

59

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR:

We have no Information that Subject appeared at a

rally In Oslo to date, nor does the Embassy bave knowledge

of a future visit of KING to Norway.

Any future information which becomes avallable will

be forwarded to you. We have also taken due note of your

desire that the Norwegian authorities not know of your

interest In Subject's activlties.]

---

## Page 5

13-00000

DISPATCH

СЛОНИ A

GONFIDENTAL

TO

Chier of Station, London

INFO.

Chios, WE

FROM

Chlof of Station, Oslo

SUBJECT

1) Transmittal of Momo to lcgal Attache, Lordon

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUURED

ONLY QUALITICO DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXINO

MICROFILM

Pleaso trananlt to the Leghl Attache tho attached meno

which 1s to reaponce to his Inquiry of 17 March 1966.

Icon 3. TOZNI,

518-260941

Attachment:

Henchme Martin ather kins, Jr.

Distribution:

2 - Cos, London w/att

i: 2 - Chief, Wo w/att

CROSS REFERENCE TO

010097997210

CONFIDENTIAL

Downgraded to

Ly authority & 100182°&

FULL TEXT COPY E

DO NOT RELEASE

CLASSIFICATICN REVIEW

CONDUCTED 0N 287071908

He DET Ü BY 00 1829

1«16

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

0W0A-19623

CLASSI

341101N

CaNaDE HAL

901760466

DAYE

30 March 1966?

59

MOS THE NUMBER

---

## Page 6

13-00000

CONFIDANTAL

SUBJECT:

MARTIN LITER KING, JR.

We have no Information that Subject appeared at a

rally 1n Onlo to date, nor does the Embassy huve knowledge

of a future visit of KING to Norway.

Any future Information which beconce avallable will

be forwarded. to you. We have

also taken due note of your

desire that the Norweglan authorities not know of your :

interest in Subject's activitics.

CS COPY,

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

1 18-0617-195

, re

'9:.

---

