# 104-10256-10208

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10256-10208

O. UNCLASSIFIED.

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

NTERNAL

I. USE ONLY

COMr IDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

189301

C/WH/ SEC

GH-56

building ficor designation, roam number, and

1. Chief, PSD

3E-48

2.

EXTENSION NO.

DATE

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

They le

6300

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

5 May 1966

COMMENTS (Number ooch

comment to

show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

For inclusion in Subject's

security file.

8.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USEDITONS

PREVIOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T

PRO.

POSED

•0

Chief, WH

INFA

Chief, KUVEST

FROM

SUBJECT

Chief of Station, IMWAVE

DYVOUR/ ADMIN/ PERSONNEL James B. Wilcott Jr.

Debriefing of pa

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

ar - Resignation in field

Action Required: FYI

Wilcott

PROCESSING

ACTION ""

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO IMDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXIMO

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

ACCOM.

PLISHED

1

and

arrived PCS at JMWAVE on 26 April 1965

submitted his resignation at JMWAVE from KUBARK to be effective

JMOCEAN.

cob 15 April 1966. While at IMWAVE Subject was under the cover of

2.

industry.

resigned in order to seek employment in private.;

A resume of his KUBARK employment is as follows:

a. Mar. 57 (EOD) to May 60.- in. Has - overt employee

b. May. 60 to July 64 -(Tokyo, Japan under ODIBEX cover

c. Aug. 64 - leave

13-3:

d. Sept: 64. to Apr 65 - in Has - ODIBEX cover

e: 26 Apr 65 to 15 Apr 66 - JMOCEAN

3.

Subject was instructed in the event he ever seeks employ-

ment with ODYOKE he should contact the Station for guidance as to

what he will show as his former ODYOKE employment.

Under

separate. cover there is being forwarded to Head-

quarters a copy of the resume that sets is submitting in

seeking employment with private industry. This resume was written

Of UMWAVE.

siles and It was concurred in by Chief/Finance and Chief/Cover

Attachment: 1 (Resume)

Under Separate Cover

Philip G. ELMARD

-

Distribution:

3 - WH w/att u/s/c

2 - KUVEST w/att u/s/c

CROSS REFERENCE TO

GACUP 1

Excluded iram automatic

downgrading aad

deciassi!|caMon

CLASSIFICATION

S-E-C-R-E-T

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

20 A pr 66

APR2$ 900

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

16012

UFGT- 15929

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

---

## Page 3

14-00000

HISTORY OF EMPLOYMSNT

SUBSEGUEVT TO GRADUATION FROM CENTRAL CITZ BUSINESS INSTICUIE

March 1957 to lar 1960

32

U.S. Army Element, Composite Operations Group

Room 13945, The Pentagon, Washington, D.C.

Salary: $6,000.

Review

vouchers and determine cost center and object ciaso.

Maintain social

payrolls and related accounts and resoive

problems relating to leave,

retirement, taxes, etc. and correlatc

payroll function with other departments.

Assist in the installation of and supervision of posting

machine operation to maintain allotment ledger. Maintain Miscei-

lancous Obligation Record and supervise posting clerks. lonthly,

quarterly, semi-annual and annual

summary of Allotment Accounts

preparation and other related statemenis. Maintain Expenditure

Distribution Lodger and balance with Isi run.

Police certain appropriation, -fund and Limitation iccounts.

Assisi in ine praparation on budgets, sunraries and reports.

May 1960 to July 1964 U.S. Army Element, Compesita Oparations Group)

10

Maintain and pay. special payroll and prepare reposes, suaveys

and summaries,

Control and responsibility fo: funds in the nigi sin sigures.

Monthly disbursements in the nigh sin figuces to revoiving fures,

Supervision and audit of

revolving sunds and accountirg vouchers,

Monthly, quartesy

semi-annual and annua: stucments, summaries

and reports of revolving funds.

Control and responsibility for transfers of funds and foreigr

currency and maintenance of conversion accounts.

Nusinessman,

supsalisa aid perform financiai regutiations with (apanese)

(Continued)

- 3-

---

## Page 4

14-00000

-2=

$2

Scorembes 1964 to ADril 1965

U.S. Army Elcment,

Composite Operations

Group

COM 1EY+5

Ine Pentarion, Hushingion, D.C.

Salary: $0,890

Periorn audit of several special payrolls.. Assist in the pilot

study and instaclation of a new payroll system.

AssLot Various branches in problems relating to the conversion

to computer booviceping.

Assist in the balancing of the General Ledger accounts in

connection with the year-end closing of the books.

May 1965 to Present The Melnar Corporation)

Mani

, Florida

Payroll Officer

Salary: $8,000.

Reorganize the payroll offico and assume responsibility for

tho schedule and accuracy of payrolls.

-struct, arrect and assist

cictis in compizing, computing and preparation of payrolls.

Prepare

checks for distribution.

Investigate and settle disputes rogarding

alleged errors in pay checks.

Audit pagro.l sumnaries, bank balances

and labor distribution records, etc. Prepare quarterly and annual

ta: report forns, wage reports and surveys. Correlate payroll

function with oter departments.

---

