# 104-10179-10232

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10179-10232

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

=

SECRET

6 Norember : 863

MEMORANDUM FCiR: Chlor, Spocial Alfaira Stall

SUBJECT

" ANiTORLD -PROJOCE JiNHARI

1. Caled, V'H/T has cantativaly allored the servicos or CLA

contrect personal arrispod to this project--principally those od the

«Director oí the tanamerican Foundation, lis.

Cartie illgues to serve

ao a chennal to ex-i resident Figures and Foreign Ministor Liduber

In promotlag the acceptabllity a AMWORLD and AMBIDDY -I by lo

modorato left. Undes the farma of lho INHARI FrojacI, CLA, Urough

Curtle Vulgues ill bo ablo lo laíluenco the compoeltion al the aludent

¿body of the school for later-American Development. ll la projosed that

Wilfuewould toll Figuere and Cruder (bal if la Intended to aleo enroll

Cubano la rbe echool and that la the opinion arty lliuethey anould bo

drawn (sam exile organizationa tronm la be dadicarad to damocratie

palaciples, such as Artimo's Mia, Manolo lay'O JUNE, the MAP

and NDE.

It lo unlikoly thes t'isuares and Cluber would demus. In

any cano, their demurrais could do overruled.

Tho prominess sAbilan

ol tha MRK as a cradlo ol domocratic ideas and lso actual inclusion ol

studento selector by Artimo would postulala accopiance al cha biteR and

af Artimo as expononts ol a political philosophy accoptablo lo lho mado-

rato loft. Aby axcoriation al Artima for haring allled biraoli with the

Somokee mould bo bluated ll the MRR (OTTo a part of those tudent body

(and coocalvably to faculty) of lho 8chool ol Intor-American Dorolopmaal!

2. I intead lo dusçess to Artime lhat do pay bla respecto lo

Tignores la Cambridgo, of course without alludiag to the lachool project.

The purpose of the call would, pulto frankly, ba lo butsor up figueres.

SECRET

:90189.706326

1108

---

## Page 2

4-00000

SEC.ET

• za

All lhe lolormallon 1 baro been ablo lo calbar auzgosto las lue cambio

isllen al MaTas diarIa/l'igurted, no (Bs do Pisabiajion la concariad.

lo unbesable ana sber artime has lillie cholco bue lo allyn dimsol vich

thals may al loakles as calago-cos al lesor to say lip parrico lo il.

3. Asalber sagle i mould lika la explora la trestioat Botancourt.

The moro l read of his accompllehmase ao presidens, lne noro ina-

prossod lam. I. bas troald you think a having tartimo, arred arido a

lettar o introducion from Elgueros, pay Bolancourt a call telore bo

relloguisbas tho prealdency, Artime'd apyroach would sot bo thar ol a

eapplican os collastos ul dupport, bul (hat ol a yours man makisg a

pligrimago, altlini as the leas of a revolutionasy tho bas boos puccondíal.

absorbiae kronledgo al how it mas dona, lo could sas Balascour, altar

De la out (rom under the dally grind al forommnal, lo addreas blasall

to tho problomo of port-Cantro Cube. Ho could lavite ulia lo chals a

Bariass attended by tha MRR leaderobia. The objociivo rould, o courao.

ba to Intolve Bolancour la lDe alfalTa Ml the MAH, Milhous Mtting his

namo on the marlbead and wilhoul usking him to costribure abylulag bat

roflections of bia luatro so a Latla American lesder who baquoarhod blo

country a conatitutional and democratie regimo. Undoubtodly A relino

will bave lo cast oll ideolo jical ballant In ordor to accomooial tía

saluctant aponeore (i'l¿ueres,. Betancourt), bul llavene "vars blon uno

Ia0o. " No a minimum objecilva, Artimo ould ln say caso baro to

atsivo to neutraliso tho latent animoollios of the moderaro lait, desging

Manolo llay an unc ballengod ascendancy lo monopollalas dia support.

which ho can probably soe for the saking.

4. A melcome by-produce al lhe recuacibation al pRiMARI.

la "Comiato, "an tofluential portadical milh atrone soadorablo susoel

In Lalla America amass alemanla al the modoraro lalt, adites by

MonJo.! A Cierman sellonal semed UT, kTlch Harsos mho la a membor

of the social Democralle Party al COrmaNY (SYD) bas beos lecturias

la san jose an as "Idoological Inquiry into Commundaro," llo proçram,

ladirectly apondorod by era laderal Republie, Mill ba abrorded bis.

(JMHART. ¡le oioldo conoidorable inlluanco in moldine the esindilno as

Contral America'a laíl al canter loadorahip. The firar SecTadaTy al

Rha Israoll Embarry la Gualomala lis alao boon mentionad as tailoratlal

among the laselloctual alsca.

A Ivarto NIcas samod searaço P'aliasto

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

1:

SECRET

• 3.

(Procidonl ol lbe Assemblr) la Manos Acarta'o mas lo apandariag

JUMART, and la quared do sarlas ralarrad lo l'igueras do lbo putdlas

Ugbe, ararabedoulas all arboro.

Horary D. Mocheber

SAS/SO

CC: R'H/T

SAS/SO/SB

SAS/SO/AR

UC/SAS/MOB

SECRET

---

