# 104-10183-10439

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10183-10439

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

• RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

Haring

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Contact Report, Mecting with AMWHIP-1

DATE

:21 May 1965, 1300-1430 hours

PLACE :

National Airport

PRESENT Subject and DiUbaldo as Breitheim

1. On 20 May I phoned Subject and requested that he travel to

Washington to discuss the background of his discussions with

2 CUNSNAFU-19 from which stemmed the suggestion that A-l supply a

' rench-English-Spanish speaking secretary to UDI9's mission in

Paris. The meeting was quitf short fur as it turned out, the

discussion between Subject andU. 19 on the topic of secretaries, had

taken place in March 1965, ased had been little more than a casual

sort of thing devoid of any specifics whatever and, in particular,

devoid of any commitment by cither party to proffer or to accept a

prolferred body. Nevertheless, Subject felt quite certain that slots

would still be open in U719's mission and that a recommendation from

him would suffice to effect favorable action by (u) 19.

2. I sketched AMBUNNY's qualifications stressing the fact that

she had gone to school in the U.S., had worked here, and had done

a hitch as a social secretary for the American Ambassador in La Paz.) 0б

Subject drew the obvious conclusions that it might be difficult to

dummy up AMBUNNY's labenslauí adequately to prevent her from

being "discovered" by the Cubans.

At any rate, since she was our

only candidate, Subject agreed to meet with her in New York so that

together they could thresh out the pragmatics of the problem. The

meeting was set for 22 May.

Al Marin (alias) would participate in this

6/00

---

## Page 2

14-000000

720094

- 2 =

3. For the record, I should like to note that in the two and a

half years since I had last seen Subject he had aged over 15 years.

When I last saw him he was a round-faced, dark-haired, boyish person

and has now been transformed into a very grey, very puffy, 50 year old

man though I understand his chronological age is something short of 40.

These observations ted nothing to do with anything except they might

indicate that Subject is living under a great strain. I derived the

matters. He is a very difficult person to corner. I am firmly

convinced that to date in this operation, if it may be called that, we have

• never come close to placing Subject in the corner and that it is high time

we do so. I do not imply that he is a man of ill will, rather that

instinctively he is a man who slides off problems until such time as he

feels he has sufficient evidence or is in the right posture to solve them.

I should think it would be our task to exploit these natural capacities

while at the same time attempting to assure that Subject not sliding

away from us.

---

