# 104-10122-10346

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10122-10346

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASS

ATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

I CUNFIDENTIAL I

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

TO

1

DDS

3

6

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

Attached are copies of summaries of our

operational involvement with Maheu. In

addition to giving Mr. Helms the originals,

I have also given copies to Mr. Houston.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

Director of Security

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

FOM, NO. 237 Use previous editions

DATE

6/20/66

SECRET

(40)

---

## Page 2

4-00000

SECRET

EVES ONLY

SUBJECT: Project HARPSTAR.

1. May 1958 - FE Division initlally contacted Diractor of

Security and briefad him on Projeci, Bagically, Project capitalised

on President Sakarzo's weakness for women, espacially Caucasias.

Bacauss of our inability to get controlled asset close to him to deter-

mine his thinking and plans, and the recent apparent success of

Soviots use of a vomas, beliared be may let down guard and becomo

espinsive in discussion oi plans wits a female and accept advice

that ha would not ordinarily accept from a mas.

?. Object - Locala intolligent, attractive, motionally stable,

and trustvorthy famale who would accapt assigamint which would

involve eventaal intimate relationshis with Sukarno.

3. January 1958 - Gave Robert Maheu assignosa to locate

candidate. He suvisad that a prominent ou

a attorney enj

" man about town, 'a

miss, could come up with a qualifie 1

woman. Mishou told s

« be had a "client'' whase baginess as

not prosparing in an unidentified country. Felt could improve situa-

tion If an attractive and intolligent female could got to him. and,

through feminins charm, persuade his thinking in a more favorable

diractica.

> was investigatad with favorabl: results and given

CSA va ? July 1953, but not made witting of CIA interest.

5.

Candidato -

a0protimatoly 35 yaara ola, residant of

dwell-to-rio widow,

, consiinind

highly intelligent sad extremely sitractive.

1. August 1953 - Project HARPSTAR plin coacurred in 3y

COPS and DCI.

EYES ONLY

SECRET

En:20 9 2 1-11

ine cad

в грії-ті

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

EYES ONLY

Page ?

7. August 27 - Joseph Smith, FE Division, introduced to

Maheu as Joseph Siras.

3. Smith emphasized nead for a solid cover story and buci-

stopping. Maheu suggests, in view of fantas close rolationship

with movie colony, may induca dist

who represents several

movie interests, to set up an arrangement that would also include

nocessary funding machanians.

9. September 23 - Mabeu and O'Connell, Secarity, met vich

Sand is New York City (Harrpahire Fiouse). Agreed, if he co-

operative, would briaf him re Agency interest and objective oi

Project to get maximum effort from him. He responded enthu-

siastically and ofíarod his complata service and facilities to set up

a secure cover mechanism. He suggasied that altitl be told oi

general Government interest (not CIA) at the outset due to her shar?

percaptiv-ness which may causs her to speculate at a later date.

10. Cover Story - 4

would commission her to perfore

a "on location surray" in cartain FE areas lor tha proposed filming

o: "Journsy to the Centar of the Darth." This could be done vary

naturally becauge da

WAy has th

rights to the film and is contemplating shooting it in near future.

11. September 23 -6

#arrived New York City (St. Regis).

Mabou met ber alone for firet time and told her of Government inter-

est. She seemed to be relieved about cartain misgivings she had of

assignment. (She knew true ideatity of Maheu, having been introduced

to him socially by sins.

She also knaw that he had a parsonal

relations organization. )

1:. September 23 (aitarnoon) - Mahau intro-taced "Sims" fo

wes given a gradual briating on assignmont, determining at

surious points whethar she was still interogted. She indicated ahe

untarstood exactly what was expected of har und could luave country

in 3 days.

:3. Saptenber 11 - 'Sims' agaia met wichel

wat which rime

she was told she sould be accompanied by a femal: traveling com-

senion, d

In GS-11). Would usten-

sibly bo hor secretary, but would ba, in fact, thu piraon she could

luok to ior direction.

EYES CHLY

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

EVES CMLY

Page 3

! 1.

• subsequently given sevgral briefings by Fa par-

sonnel, both in Neiv York City and California. All under aliasas.

?. O, boxas and sterile phonea sere set up lo: communications.

15. Cover arrangements were completed by @pularite

He

cranged 1or durato carry a letter of introduction from dat

to a traind, his reprosontative in Indonesia

15 hora to Sukarno. Also arranged to have funds placed in

the Indonesian branch of Twentieth Century Fox in DIARKARIA:

EVES ONLY

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SEGRET

EVES ONLY

Page i

15. Records of this Office do not rollact any of the activitica

o! this during the course of har mission. It is believed she left

for Indonesia somatime in Jaguary 1959.

It is known that she did

meet Sukarso, but due to unfortuzate timing that had.him leaving

his country on official businesa, she bad little time to cultivate bim;

consequently, the purpose of the mission was not fulfilled. I should

be noted that Sukarno took sufficient notice of her that during 23 22-

official visit to the United States in June 1959, he expressed a stronz

desiro to seo her and did.

17. The last known contact slatihad with the Agency was in

the forma of a telaphone call on 12 April 1961 whan she called on tbe

sterile line and talked to Hugh Tovar, who she knew as George Fienry.

She advised that folks asked her to give a party for Presi-

dent Sukarzo who would be in Los Angeles on 21 April 1961. Ske

wanted to know whether Heary's people were interested in spon30r-

ing this farty. A negative response was given.

18. It is not known where she is or what her activities ara at

the prosent time, but presumably she is still in the Los Angal's

area.

EYES ONLY

SECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

EVES G.1LY

PROJECI NORFOLK

requested to render special support during the Los Angeles and

New York phases of the tour.

desirous of femala companionship during his Los Angelas visit, and

it was requested that appropriate arrangements be made tbrough a

controlled source of the Office of Security, in order to insure a

satisfied visit. In addition, other supportive service, such as car

rentals, living accommodations, etc. were required and authorized

under (NEA) Division Project NORFOLX.

09

3006 On 3 April 1959) Ms.. Robert Maheu was asked to arrange

a party forKing Husseig at Los Angeles, California. He did this

through Mr.

pie, a prominente

ath attorney

and sings figure previously granted a CSA for use by FE Division.

2 To use ant, during the court if this party, (Stag Muse) 06

For the duration of King Hussein's stay in Los Angeles, 3 April

thru 7 April 1959), he and bites became need friends.

Accordingly, it was indicated by Mr. (Fred LaTrash,) who was

integrated into the Stata party, that (King Huasein)desired to con-

tinue his friendship with eat

shes and that he wished to meet

with her during his stay in New York City from 14 April thru

18 April (1959), 09

1. Because of the publicity that had attended the relationship

#stand King Hussein)in Los Angeles, the Office

of Security was requested by NEA Division to facilitate the arrange-

neats for the visit in New York City

5. On 13 April (959, arrangements were made to rent tha

home of si

sh a Security Office source,

Beach Long Islande for the pariad 1a April sars is April 19509

As the saidential meeting place fore

#a and (King Hussein.) 0 6

At the same time,

was registered at the Hotel

Barclay, 111 East 48th Street, New York City, under the name of

Mrs. 8i

#of El Paso, Texas. The publicity touching

EYES CALY

a1/po

---

## Page 7

EVES CALY

on tha relationship became more poiated, soma public mention had

been made of the suitsbackground offiast and thus it became

increasingly important that the New York meeting be carefully arrange.

6. On 14 April 1959) Mr. (Fred LaIrasa) and e

after appropriate security arrangements, were transported to Long

Beack, Long Islaod, where the residenca often,

was taken over as the meeting place between ting, Tusseinaod

Later the same day,. by prearrangement, two Department

of State Security Agenta, a New York City Police Lieutenant and

a hired charror At dot king ta ta aland party visaiad

each evening, remaining for about four to five hours.

7. During the stay at the Long Beach site, e

discussed the publicity in the case at some length with the Security

representative. She speculated about the posaible sources of certain

personal information that she felt had been leaked to the presa.

She spoke of her depta of feeling for (King Hussain and commentec

on how Mr, anth he had initially sougit her out to serve

as a party companion for the King) At the time, sha said she was

unclear as to just what part Mr. &

wanted her to play and in

attempting to clarify his request.

3 said, "I am employed sy.

the CIA. We want you to go to bed with him, "arential continued

to say that she rejected the proposal, but finally went to the party of

and that it developed that the relationship between her andfing Fiasein)

transcended what had been suggested.

8. Following the departure ofKing Hussein) for (Jordan

at the request of NEA) Division, the Office of Security assisted in

with and the King.) The last-recorded

action by the Security Office in this case was 10 October (1950.):

9: All personal contacts by Security representatives in the

case were under alias and implied State Department affiliation.

10. Thare is no record or indication in any of the files in

this case that involves Robert dialeu by name of refarence. Maheu,

as we understand it, never was introduced to

Pand, as far as

EYES CALV

---

## Page 8

4-00000

EVES ONLY

can be determined,

"fronted" for all arrangements.

11. Security Office investigation conducted variously from

25 May through 17 September 1959) of

Wereflected no sub-

siantiva derogatory intormañon germase to the case.

EVES ONLY

3

---

## Page 9

Third party, personal information

deletions from attached Mend's

re "Project HARPSTAR" and

"Project NORFOLk".

---

