# 104-10291-10003

## Page 1

104-10291-10003

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

"PTFET

FILE TITLE/SUNBER/POLINE: WIROGUE

MAYCRINK.

Emeat!

INCUSIVE DATES: 24 July 59 - 22 July 1961

CUSTODIAL UVIT/LOCATION:

ROOM: 5E13

DELETIONS, IF

DATE

RECEIVED

"DATE

RETURNED

REVIENED, BY

(PRINT NAMEA

SIGNATURE OF

REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NO LOANSTS BUY BE COPIED OR RENOVED FROL THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

2m Busk

18088

MANTEZA FAR MO

DAH

She el Bises tal

Fusseia

339 do ta

425 - 10E0.55 oNe

MASCED FOR NOGUNE

BRODONO CAN El NIGED

EY QuAURED iS DESK ONY.

senten

S898L0N

• M

asto

of b

12.00 (030P A559 CA

Is Somery 19e

ed bes antbertned

1aee esteeber

es ss00 an do too end

38 Jazy 1962

Rosakpt for 2169, W/v

Thygrille centrioasion by cuthion, b/o

Contibasulll" encinate, as

Diostibabiens

---

## Page 3

14-00000

P. 9r-a95 0.

ti..".1.u

i+0-180,0999038

# ?5AT0N9664.

10 Q96Da1p0209-v011

1049-8128

213.n-11r,

Telecad el 1.0 000:8.113

as tallotor

013.

3at::7o

dil Interarion related to elio agroesant

•20948781

24309+ 874

DaTi

not la ditulgel to asy-pereer, segarisalien of

209957401

* р;

aRy fUre LE tA270T.

it 10

'ao?

B:-j

wil!

esse soula und be ao beardiace and fluel barech o8 sado

arresans de dsll regall la forfaiture by yor of asy aid ail

boso les dias say thon baro acarued bo jos by 80a805 * thie

15709-0-91°

12, 00áa smadellon des dall lezzass dol arie.

d по орт. 1039

82.01:8.

#113

stat. 15.

Casino irao.

7:ar

199119

Ca' ij.

DS1704 STATES VERONS

st

00: 29.k1

!:!.

de:$ 119.4

---

## Page 4

¿parTal la hermen requestod to polvere.

terzsdnato.and

enjarosi de gesymatre it. $2009,00 IC

In rotura.

for enti cos

se vill do requirod to alen a duti chalo and socroey.

Il lo presently plannod to rolanço subject la Eurore, vita

sho ortice de security emargerting rebjoct via Mary as far so trat-

nio aborte and s: tie excuse.

ha unto sarese un11l la can rind estata angla pirio.

iare tra edeguate farda avallasle te tue project to coter bre

trainatie semia and branagoratla to sanitari na merd.

te $oa,00 anu eregnernapo of viich spereclastaly $5000.00 la

543W minsta74ia5.

?A.w.

€/48, 4/2

partirig

.417

1mouat raguested in paragraph une

•= approvad for payment.

Based

epon cover and operational circumo

ssanços, payment la aut subject te

FeJara lacorse saxas,

Santar Contrachlag Ortcer

i nost come

otto,"Tiat +440+ 5454-449471

misede (554114-149m5

---

## Page 5

4-00000

18, K70908 G. Maycrink

Dear ir. Mayerink:

Effoctino 31 Cctobor 1960, all contracto, oral or wristen, by and botweon

yus and tha Unitod Starea Governmont, ao represented by the Contracting

Clicus, aro hereby teriminalad by inutual consont of the partios chorolo, and

Is lieu choreor the following agroonant lo, aubalilutod.

The Unlted Stater Governmont, an japresented by the Contrackleg Ollicor,

bereby contracte with you aü an indopendent contracior for the submalaalon of

certain information and related sorvices of a confidential sature under the

follomlog torma and conditiana:.

1. Componsalion. In full constdaration lor the submiesion of such lator.

sation and corvico, you will recolre trom the Goverament, payable la auch

as apprayed manner ao you may direct in irlting, ibe lollowing;

(a) Baole compensation la an smount calculatod at the paro of

$6000 per annu.

(b) Additional compensation ln an amount calculatod at the rato

s300 per annum to cost of in opened tine edit

quarters), efloctive upon your artival at and applicable only

to your contemplated permanent post of assignmont oversons.

Quartörä will not be furalched you nor will you accops quartor

providod by a cover facility without prior amondmont of this

agreeinent.

Taxos. Monies pald you directly of guarantoed by tha Government

snaby this paragraph constitutd incorre for Fedoral lax purpoges.

Ba adriadd as to the method to ta sollowed in reporting and paying/such tarea

The method as wall pa pho procedures used bythis or gapiratian to implo-

zoeysitax reporyng reaponsibilities will be based primarily ypon cover

aud security requiremento.

You heroin authorizo tale organiaation to with -

bold lazes on said income il lt dotermines such requiremanta so necesultate.

3.

Traval. You will be advanced or reimburoed lundo for travol and

traasportation expenses to and from your permarent post of dufy overcade

as for authorised operational travel. You may be entitled lo per dlem in

lies of subsistence during such travel and, waon authorised, whilé on

seaporary duiy away from your permanent poat of agaignment. All travol,

transportation and por diem provided for under this paragraph muat be

properly authorizod, and expanses incurred haroundor are subjact lo pay.

ment ard accounting in subatantial compliance with. Governinant rogulationa.

4. Sperational Expensed: You will be advanced or reimburaod (unda lo:

Incesary operalional expondos as specifically approved and iinancially limit.

ei by the Government. Such lunds will be aubject to payment and accounting

¡a avistantial conformaice wiis applicable Goveremost segulationa.

5. Eepayment. I la racognised that your failure to account for or refund

asy monias advanced you heroinder shail entitle the Government to withhold

Loe sotal amount of such indabledions os any portion thereof from any monies

¿so you únder the terme of thia contraçt in such manner as it deong appro-

pIlate.

---

## Page 6

Negutiatod Benellle, (a) (1), Il, in lie partormanco of activilled de: r=,

Mis agreeinont, you incur an injury or illness mäich lo not the renule of s.

gross segligenco, milllul misconduct, or intemperels act. lie Coverano

will prevido modical, surgical, hospital, pranaportasion and disability be

lite in auch amoints and under such conditiong as lhe Curernment in le8 a

discretion deema proper prurided, homeror, that such bonafila shall nos

axceed a sulal ol $5000 for the saine injury of lllness.

12) 16834 dio la the periormance of açelo

hereunder and your doath is nol the result ui your gruso nogligenco. will.

miscondure or Incomporare ail, the Gorerminoni will pay lie duin ul $500

to your beneficiarylios) loas day amount paid do you under dub-paragrap!

above ll ouch injury or lilness rogulted in your death, pabrided that sald

beneticifyilos) la accoptablo lo the Covornment al the lime nuco payme

to tie sado. An accoptable beneficiary hereundor la se individual lo ubo e

payseal by the U.S. Governy. ent can be made illbout conflicting wilh ili

arowed principles and Ideals.

(b) Outplandiag perforrasace by you undor i.

agreement and your lullillment of obligatione baraunder la an allicient ra:

nor will result in the corgranent undertaking your resettlemead in an agai

murally grogable 10 both partios. to the extent doemed appropriato by is

United Suto, Governmont.

Exocution of Documonia. I, in the performance of corvices unde

phia contract: you assume tha custody of Covornment lande or sto titla...

record to proporty of any nature whatsoavor and wherever altuate. whiel

property bao in lact been purchased with monlos of the U.s. Covernmoni

you bereby recognize and acknowledgo the oxlotenco of a trust rolational

Bitter express or constructive, and juu agree to execute wbatever docur

may be roguired by this arganisation 8o evidence this relationahlp.

8.

Status. You are nor an omployee of the Uniles states Government.

under saia agreeinent and are not entitled to any benellis sormally incide

to an amployee status.

9.

F'undiag: Il necosuary lo protect the socurity al this arrangeneas

moniea due you hereunder may be funded in other than a diroci mannes..

in undarstood and agreed that any monies no funded constituto payont b

the Corerament in satisfaction, of ito obligationa under thie agrearient.

10. Cover. (a) il is anticiparod that you will undertaka a covor venta

in the couras of your performanco undor thie agreemacit.

Such sentura

De approved ty the appropriale Governmont reprocasestive overagging y

actinties prior to its Initiation. Any and all docur ente which you may

execute in the course of said cover venture sro subordinate lo thie agret

meni and any contradiction in terina which in any say azplify, extend os

rectrici your sighta and /or obligations hereunder shall be acaolved. by ti

agreement which shall almaya do dominant,

(b). To provide capital for your approved cover voniuro l

Governren! will loan jou $4000b be sacurod by a non-isterest bearing p

ibozy siste, payabie on demand. Said loan will be doposited to as accour.

in a toreiga bani and a $3000 lettor of credit will be issued you againat

deposii.

Tho additional $1000 will be rolaagod from said accounl, alto!

approral by ihe Government reprosentativa overseeiag your activities.

---

## Page 7

(e) You will aub nit so the Government questerly lecome and

experiso scaremonte on she cover ventire and copter of sifiax recurne filet

In connection therowith... Your cores accounts rhall be kerl separaio and

latinct fron the bank account into which your personal compensallos pay

monto aro mado.

(d) You boroin agreo thal monies loanod you by the Gorornm

shall be ropaid from phe profito ol lbe cover venture, la amounto and al

perlodic Intervala to be establtahoú by the Guverna ent representativo ova:

acolng yuur aclivities. Alter said loss has beon cuinplosely repald and all

othor ubligationa, such as luca! laxes, crc. , have been made, you nay tol

any further profit derived froin said corer venture. However, lt la cloarl.

undoratood and agreod thes your primasy obligation undor this agrooment::

tho por formance of Goveramental activísica:

11. Secrecy. All lalormation related to thie agreomont conveyod las d.

Instructiona: Tale instrument, or otborwise, lo secret and shall not be di-

múlgod ló any person, organtiation or government in oy forra or mannes.

ascopt as authorizod.by tho underaigned Contracing Offices axecuting thie

austoment. It la agrood that any rovelation whatsoever of the above tafor.

matlon will conatitute and be an lamadlato and liaal breach of thie agreo-

mons and will rooul in fortoltureby you of say and ali boneses waich may

thon have accrued to you by reason of this agrosmaont.

12. Instructione: During the form of this agreemont, and in your

olliclal cover capacity you herein agree to act in conformance with inetruc

Hone, oral or written given you by authorised representativon of this orgai

sation.

13. Unauthorized Commitinente. No promises of comminento pér-

talalng to righto, privilegas or benstits othar than thoso expraaaly stipulat

In writing In thia agreement or any amendment therato shall be binding on.

this organization.

14. Term. This contract la effective as of l Flovember 1968, and sha

continue thereaitor for a period of two (2) yearo unlass sooner terminatod

by the Government dithor;

(a) By sixty (60) days' actua: nosice du you fram the Government, ur

(b) Without prior notleo, in the event of a breach of this consrace by

your violation of tha security provlaiono horool or by your otherutas

randerina yourdell unavaliable for acceptabio service.

Subject to the availability of appropriationo, thla agreement may be axtand..

upon notice from the Governmont.

In the event of voluntary letinination on

your part or termination for cauda by the Government pelor to the expirati

of this agreoment of any renoval thereof, you will not be entitled to roturo

travel expenses to the United Statos. Termination or expiration of this ael.?

meat will noi roleado you iron: tho obligation of any ascurity vati you may

be requirad to tako.

UNITED SIATES GOVERNMEN"

BY

Contracting Gilicer

ACCEPTED:

ErnesiC. Maycrink

WIINESS:

APPRUVID:

retender

---

## Page 8

14-00000

Pov 1950

MEMORANDUM POR: Contract Poronsol Diviaion

SUBTECT

3 MIROCUR/i Contract (POrerLy ABASPIC).

1.

A ravion of the inocus/l s1le sbowed that subject vas under contract foi

a period beginning 20 september 1959 through 30 Juno 1960, Blaco tbat date vitil

20 October 1960, subject was under BR DOB OQA.

On 21 October 1960, the African

Division picked up the osio and l8 preparing-to dispatah him on 20 Rovembor 1960.

2., It to requested that tha contraot be bröught up to dato and amendod to

oncompass the follorios polptos

foreseer

A. Erleotivo ditos 21 Movember 1960 through 20 soverber 1%62.

Li. Compendations 1500 per month, plus $3000 por annim for bourtag.

Modical: to extent it 10 noceneary to maintain good healta.

Insurarico: $5000 payablo to beneftelary.

mutrath

18. Bonus sor outstandine perforance, roettlient santa gion

Fi Teratristion: ending of all benofito and montes.

3. This contract vill havo to be prepared for signing prior to 18 November

1960.

For further Inforsation, ploaso contact Mr. Daniel R. Meeclur, 18284.

Sless Tulis

Glenn D.

Fielde

Acting Chio!, Africa Divinion

74,u00 pental do no intel ting.

to be replied fisher prfit...

what is on, F.N.-10 HerAls.

---

## Page 9

SECRET

SR/DOB/60-207 4

20 October 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Special Contracting Clicer

THROUGH:

SR/SS

Attention:

be s

SUBJECT:

Project Termination of Ernest G. Maycrink (p)

as independent contractor. for SR Division

REFERENCE:

SR/DOB/59-1735 dated I7 September 1959

SR/DOB/59-1660 dated 24 July 1959

1. Because of the Indefinite postponment of Project AESENTINEL:

undor which subjoct Individual was engaged, subject hás been terminated by

thin office on 20 October 1960:

2. Subject individual will be picked up on contract on 21 October

1960 by Africa Division. Subjuck was paid on 20 October 1960 by this

office al: monics remaining due him as per Engagement of Independent

contracios agreement for Project ABSENTINEL. Subject has no further

renunerailre claim againds the U, S. Government.

Michel tie

MICHAEL RAS

Chief, SR/DOB

eith Reld

Jan gas Ingen

---

## Page 10

CYPRET

3H/D08/59/_ 1735

27 Sopterber: 1959

TRON

SUNSPOT

• 1 Contrait Approving: 0681005, Michnal Rea

Bng?

mont af Eroat 0. HATRI (p) as Indopendent Contractor

SR/008/59/ 1660, datod 24 July 1959 to Finance Dirloion se Bone

subfact:

I. Profoot ARSEVTICL, under unlob subjeet individial has been

engaged, kas ariginally approved through the perlod 31 Marah 1960. A raguent

for renoval and ssendant of the profest has boon subatttad to FI, and 1% ta

intonded: subjest Indtifdual till bo uillisod undar thia projoat during 1960.

no collarina provisiona will apply to subjoat Inalviaral curin

he Intorla poriod, 1.9.1 20 Septonuer 1959 through 30 Jurs 1900

under oral contract for les under

far end Profeet charrojent irelist.

Subjeat Individual has been engaged

Tho offectino dáto of tha

orsl contFs0d 1a 20 April 1959, and has been extanded through the period 31 Marei

a9ol, subjeot to tornaation by the dovernient upon thirty (30) days acrual notico.

4i.

Boeurder 15r50yaL., Ino idual Baoully elbarance Dotainod 1o

Subjeotlo noo, tifun to.

6-75532, detod 11 March 195%, has been suspended during

tho interla portal.

Roquests hay been nade of the office of Beaurity (SSD and

ALIGn Affaire Staff) lot subjeot's use.

5. Cissenship. Sabledt 1s a fories rational.

Da borna by tho Bubjeet.

SA/DOB Station Finds.

3. SporatIonal Exs2aS95. Ho Opurational dipansea aTO contemplated

during ths period covered.

sado to the Subjeoes

Otten Coraltments. Tha Pollotes edditional comitients havo beon

---

## Page 11

SECRET

8.

Medias] Bonofits:

Subjeat will receivo ouch dental and

noddaal bapastro as may be nacessary to maintain his phratonl statia for blo

"rantual nis on hia assignod aloslon.. Conto to bo borro by SP/DOB Station Mundo.

Ingured sa lino a Nir Kapur 15, 00000 for data ge 41 0l150 Proja

Resettlement. To tattlel prortoione sado for rosettlement

al Subjoot otill applyi

Contingont Obligations.

Although no such prontse has boon mado the

Subjest, resettlenant in the Urited States could possibly bacons necessary ada

fari as oontrol, should this ba doend nonessery fron a savurity verpolnt.

1l. No commitmants other than those stared above have bean made to tho

sudjeed.

At auch time a subjeot to-anters training for his proposed mieaion,.

abous 1 July 1960, all proviatons of his indilal engagement will again apply.

MICHASL RAE

Chiof, 5R/D09

Special wies; Older e

Dists

Arig. a 1 - Addrassoa

1 = Contreeting 01f108x

---

## Page 12

14-00000

-.

SATT

12/003/581 16.60

de July 1959

VIẠI

spootal Contrasting osttoos:

Coutragt Approving 08/100r, Mlchesl Rae

SUBISCT Engagement Of Braent 0. MAICRIK (P) as Independant Contractos.

Tern-and Profoat. Charre. The subject Individual has been

engaged under oral: contract, for use undor Projoot AlSENtINEL.

The

escoctive date of the oral contreat 1a 20 April 1959, and shall continua

thereafter for a period of ono year aubjoot to cormination by the

socurite Approval. the appropriate security approval for

Subjent's uso has boon obtatnod.

Typa Operational Approval, No. C-13532,

dated 11 March 1959.

3. Gitizenshi2, the subjoct 19 a forolgn national.

L. Campensation.

subject will be pald salary in the anount of

$500,00 por month, payable in United Statoe aurrency.

of this amount,

he will sorually recelvo 950.00 pox montà during trairing and the duration

of the sission.

All unpaid mondos vill cocrue to his aradle in an escrus

account,, the payront of which will be dependent upon tho propor performanco

of hio dutles and ba payablo upon completion of mission for wich engaged.

Prostiicas also redo for payment at bonus not to arcoed $10, 000.00.

6. Operational, Expenseo.

Operational trevel and expence to bo paid as offlotally

authorined.

Desestio travel costa will ba borne by Sh/pos Station funds.

Prazol costa. 4o and tron the United States, and foreign travel will bo

charged against Projoot RoSINTINEL.

D. Oparational espenses to da borno by Projoct AESBirTlL.

fratning enonses to bo carmod by Station Allotsent.

COST

---

## Page 13

it on dida

SECHET

• 2 c

Subjeet:

%o Other Coultants.

sho fallorins addlelonel occlemento havo beca, vida do eno

Cösts chargeabia.

Resettlement..

Provisions.nade for -rasottlesmt of subjoot

in a country othor lien: het in union ho una regruitod.

Coats iat

/rocottionent Mill not axeed $1, 000.00, and w121 be chargeable agatnat

intortalmento

. All normal entertalamont expenses will be

boro by sA/Dod Station funds.

Continest doligationa.

The following has not to presdead the

Individual, but may hava to be nat by tho lovestimenti

Resottlement in tha United Statos, althar as lu additional

borma for the Subjeot of ta a fara af contrul should this lecono socossary

Ho coastitmanto othor than those atatod above have been sado lo

the subjeot.

MICHAEL, RAS

Chief, 8N/DC3

i"."

"..:

a.--

---

