# 104-10120-10373

## Page 1

104-10120-10373

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

28 February 1961

MEMORANIDUM FOR THE RECO:@

FRO!

:. Chief, SB/2 Desk

24

SUBJECT:

COVER, (NONOFFICIAL - GENERAL

(Proposal for A&E Assessment

of Potential

RESKIN Agent Candidates)

#90682

{553/135

*=5.125

"30

Chief

1. Reference is made to my previous memorandun pertaining

to the subject as captioned, ending with the Memorandum for the

Record dated 21 February 1901.

2.

As indicated in the referenced memorandum, CCC feels

that the PSYCHOLOGICAL, ASSESSMENT ASSOCIATES) (see copy of SR

memorandum-dated 3 February IJI ana my menorandim dated 21

February 1961) should not be utilized..

This decisionsas made

as a result of a conversation between Mr. Howard OSBORNE,

Deputy Chief, SR Division, and Mr. Jack SOUTHARD, Chief, CCG/NC.

3. A meeting was called on 27 February 1961 to determine

the type of cover organization that should be substituted for

this purpose.

ascertained that the Agency has a cleared (employment) service in

10 Fattsburgh) which could possibly be utilized as an initial

AdE assessment. This firm, the EMPLOYENT SERVICE COPANT 24

is located in the Union Trust Building, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, I

and is managed by vargaret A. KEARNEY)(see SSD File 95010).

It was agreed that if the EMPLOYERS SERVICE COMP'IT) could

provide the needed cover,

two OTR psychologists would be docu-

mented in true name with that firm in Pittsburghio CCG (Frank

O'MALLEY) will make a trip to (Pittsburgh,

in the next few days

ar angemento they ey hole: lented to Do proposed

selected were Doctors

BPADT and McKEF,on whom credit checks were recently completed

i borhth negative results as to Agency employment.

It was further ascertained at this time that Nr.

if dosaid asanal desired that all training and arossarent of

REDSKIN Agents who pass the initial screening be conducted

119968=

SECRET

17pJ

---

## Page 2

?..

outside the Washington, D. C. area.

liost of the training will

be conducted in an SR safe house in New York. The SR represen-

tative will probably request a safe house in Baltimore for the

final assessment and processing of those REISKIN Agents that

are cleared in the initial screening by either BRADI or richEE, 06

It should be noted at this point that SR Division plans to

process thirty or thirty-five REDSKIN Agents this year. Time

is, of course, of the essence, in view of the fact that these

people will have t. be assessed, security-cleared, briefed,

and trained, and arrangements for grants made before the summer

season.

Turke

KOHNKE /eird (2-28-61)

PENDING

cc: SSD #95018

2

---

