# 104-10186-10308

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10308

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RMATION

RERORTE

KFORAATION REPORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

fir

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGH DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT

Policy Guidance Directives for

Cuban Intelligence Representatives

in Maiti

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

CS-311/01258-65

4 February 1965

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1963

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. June 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOUACE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A former Cuban Intelligence officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

CS-311/00115-64

CS-311/00345-6RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nọt Reproduce

Headquarters Comment.

The following is a translation of a docu

ment which Source provided containing the policy guldance direct-

the General directolage e rareligence erecton eneral ad

Inteligencia -- DGI), MA Department.

The MA Department no longer

exists as such, having been divided into two departments:

Department (Ilegal) and National Liperation Department (Liberacion

DIRECTIVES OF THE M-A SECTION

COUNTRY: HAITI

Priority:

1.

Plans of aggressich against Cuba.

2.

3.

Progressive political forces.

4.

Attitude of the political parties toward the Cuban Revolution.

Movement for solidarity with cuba.

5.

Strategic information.

6.

Party of Haiti.: (Party of Popular Accord.)

Important:

Relations with the United States.

Internal politics of the country.

Social situation.

10.

11.

12.

Internal situation of the Armid Forces.

The Church.

Functions,

characteristics. and information on members of the

foreign service and the accredited daplomatic corps in the country.

5

по lo с

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FORETS DISSEN

STATE

1 01A

ARMY

REPCINCLANT

I&vS

‹Nore Field distribution indicared by "*".)

I NAV

I AIR

INSA

I OCR

IFBI

INFOR

REPORT

INFORMATIONERERORT

LX- 2307

(AMMUG-1)

For Distribauen Sis

attached Parat

CS-311/01258-65

12 :COr AF'OSL, ACSIDEL

Sx. FELL

TOMA IE 3, C! 21, RID/AS 1, 4H. SA

1615), SH

1,F1 31111080мd

RiT

WH 25(33 AF 8181 EF 8/10:, FE

12(82, NE 7(191

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Hdgrs Dissem

WHI/COPS

WH/PO/A

WII/PO/B

WH/1 .

WH/2

WH/3

WH/3/V

WH/4

WH/5

wH/6

WH/R

WH/SA/BOB

WH/SA/NOB

WH/SA/R

WH/SA/Int

WH/SA/CI

WH/SA/SO/NS

CI/Staff

CI/Liaison

CI/R&A

RID/AN

AF/1

AF/2

AF/3

AF/1

AF/R

AF/CI

EE/K

EE/SA

EE/BR

EE/YA

EE/H

EE/P

EE/C

EE/IIS

FE/PMI/I

FE/ JKO/JO

FE/JKO/K

FE/VNC/VN

FE/R

FE/CI

NE/AA/L&S

NE/AA/AP

NE/AA/E

NE/AA/I

NE/5/P

NE/6/C&1

NE/Intel

SR/CY

SR/CI/K

SR/RR

SR/O/WH

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

- 17 -

NE/1

NE/2

NE/3

NE/4

NE/5

NE/BC

NE/R

1

1

Field Dissen

WH/MEXI

WH/ MATY

AH/MRID

WH/SDOM

WH/PIBO

WH/POSN

WH/KNGS

WH/PRIN

/NH/GORG

WH/NANA

WH/SJOS

NH/SALV

WH/TEGU

WH/GUAT

WH/LAPA

WH/BOGO

WH/QUIT

WH/GAYA

WH/LIMA

WH/CARA

WH/ BUEN

WHI/COBA

WH/ NONT

WH/ASUN

WHI/ SAGO

WH/RIOD

WH/CURI

WH/ BRIL

" WH/SAOP

WH/BHIA

WH/BEHO

WH/LGRE

WH/RECI

NH/SA/WAVE

TAF/ALGI

AF/ORNA

AF/RABA

99

AF/CASB

AF/ACCR

AF/CNRY

/AF/BAKO

LE/DARE

EE/VIEN

FE/ SBUR

EE /CYRU

EE 'ATHE

EE/SLON

EE/BERN

5

:_CS-311/01258-65

TEE iGNVA

SE/ZURI

EE/HAMB

EE/RAVA

FE/DJAK

FE/MEDN

FE/SURA

FE/TOKY

-FE/OKIE

FE/SEOU

FE/SAIG

СЕБ/КОВЕ

NE/COLO

NE/NEWD

NE/BOMB

NE/CALC

NE/NDRS

NE/KUWA

NE/ KAHI

, NE/DACC

NE/LAHO

NE/RAWL

NE/BAGH

NE/BEIR

NE/DAMA

NE/ALEP

NE/JIDD

NE/DAHA

INE/TAIZ

NE/CAIR

NE/ALEX

WE/BRUS

NE/COPE

WE/HELS

NE/OTTA

NE/ ROME

NE/MILA

WE/HAGU

NE/OSLO

NE/LISB

WE/MADR

\ WE/BARC

IWE/STOC

WE/LOND

WE/PARI

Liaison Dissem

(E/Canada |

(RCVP)

IE Britishli

L/WASH/BRI iI

-

49

1

30

1

нана

1

3

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

S-E-C-R-E-I

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

1/8R

---

## Page 3

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 2-

CS-311/01258-65

The press.

data.

Necessary:

15.

Condition of the nattonal economs

16. Guvernmental

tructure and functions of its organs

Essential:

1. PLANS OF ACCRESSION AGAINST CUBA:

a. M1l1tary. pacts.

b. Operations within the OAS (Organization of American Statis)

and the JID (Junta Inter-Americana de Defensa - Inter-Am-rican

Defense Board).

C.

Possibilities of a break with Cuba by the countries which

have diplomatic relations with her.

d.

Possibilities of Isolation through the application of liter-

American Treaties such as the Treaty of Rio and the Punta se

Este agreements.

2. PROGRESSIVE POLITICAL FORCES:

The Party of Popular Accord (PEP), strength, organization,

leaders.

Information on the same.

Programs, ties

with

foreign

leftist political parties.

Propaganda methods.

Attitude toward the Cuban Revolution.

Other political organizations.

Lcaders,

information on the

same.

Forces, propagi.. da methods, programs.

Ties.

Contact and knowledge, reaction to political and economic

changes in Cuba.

3. ATTITUDE OF THE POLITICAL PARTIES TOWARD THE CUBAN REVOLUTION:

a. Toward the Second Declaration of Havana.

With regard to Cuban-Soviet relations in questions affect-

ing Cuba

world peace.

With regard to

accusations that Cuba is a base of Communist

aggression against the Latin American countries.

MOVEMENT FOR SOLIDARITY WITH CUBA:

a.

Find out whether the Solidarity Movement has been organized,

in what form it functions, who its directors are, etc.

Find out the possibilities for demonstrations of active

solidarity that the progressive organizations can offer.

5.

STRATEGIC INFORMATION:

.

Because of its nearness to our coasts and favorable posi-

tion for carrying out

search must be undertaken for information concerning

any kind of action against Cubaine

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGY DISSEN

---

## Page 4

4-00000

S-E-C-R-F-T

YU FOREIGN DISSEM

- 3 -

CS-311/01258-65

possibility that imperialism is using this island as a base

of operations againse our country..

b. Because of the lack of infornation to guide the search for

concrete dila and information.

the established principlo

miss be rollored of working along the departmental lines,

common to all sections of the department.

Norwithstanding what has been previously mentioned, we deem

it advantagrous to point out

several important questions on

which work must be begun immediately.

BASES OF COLNTERPEVOLETIONARY OPERATIONS:

Localization of camps or bases of operations of counter-

Characteristics of the same.

encountered in this.

revolutionary launches attonality of the individuals forming

the crew of the ships,

armaments of the same, plans and ob-

jectives of their attacks, and date when they will be carriod

b. Chesterrevolutio, ey ornas atons which In'd page of ate la

same, names, and' functions

functions.

c.

Utilization of Dominican «-lements (Trujillo followers) in this

work.

ARMED FORCES OF HAITI:

Budgetary allotments.

b.

Military agreements of a secret nature signed by lniti with

the United States for the Latin American countries. Terms

of the same. Established agreements.

c.

Utilization of the territory of Halti for carrying out Latin

American army mancouvres.

Dates of the sane and armles which

are participating. Troops.

d.

Military concentrations of any type which are carried out or

Haitian territory.

Irmles, units, and troops. Date.

6. THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF HAITI. (PARTY OF POPULAR ACCORD) :

a. Attitude toward the Second Declaration of Havana..

b. Attitude concerning Cuban-Soviet relations.

c .

stiltude toward the line:

followed by Cuba

nd international political systems

in the national

d.

Attitude with regard to the disagreements in the international

Communist movenent:

In the case of China and the USSR.

In the case of Albania and

the Ussr.

With

regard to cugoslavia-China-USSR-Albania.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FORFIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 5

14-00000

to adirw..

S-E.-C-H8-F-7

NO FOREIGN DISSES

-1 .

CS-311/01258-65

With regard to peace.

With regard to peacclul coexistence.

c. Internal situation in the Party of Popular Accord:

Forces.

Activities.

Disagreements.

Leaders (information on the same).

1. Relations with leftist forces:

Disagreements.

Possibilities of uniting all of the leftist forces.

8. Methods of combat officially adopted by the party.

1. Relations

of the party with the bourgeols partics.

j. Solldarity work with the Cuban Rerolution.

k. Publicity media which the Party organizes.

I. Repression endured by the party at the hands of the Duvaliei

dictatorship.

Status of the party with regard to legal and

illegal operations.

Relations of the party with the Dominican Popular Socialist

Party and

the Communist Parties of other Latin American

countries.

Important:

7. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:

a. Alliance for Progress, Peace Corps.

b. Relations with North American credit organizations.

c. North American military

military mission.

assistance, role of the Amerjean

8.

d. Thie North Amcrican Embassy.

Infornation on the Ambassador

and Embassy personnel.

e. Activities of the North American Intelligence corps.

INTERVAL POLICY OF THE COUNTRY:

a. Existing bourgcois political parties: composition, forces,

propaganda methods,

leaders, inforsation on the same. Pro-

crams

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

---

## Page 6

14-00000

S-F.-C-R-F-T

NU FOREIGS DISSEN

-5 -

C5-311/01258-65

b.

Relations of the bourgoods political portles with the,

"Yankee" Embassy, the monopolies, and the churches.

c. Political organizations, information on tho same, origin,

ties. Orlentation.

9.

d. Need of collaborators for inforuation.

e.. there the political pariles obtain funds.

SOCIAL SITUATION:

.a.

Conflicts of economic origin sanifested as racial demando.

Leaders, information on the same.

b.

Geonomic and political predeminance of racial group jenders,

lations of these groups with the "Yankue" Embassy.

information on the same.

strength, and orientation.

10. INTERNAL SITUATION OF THE ARMED FORCES:

The armed forces.

zations, equipment.

Troopse Barracks on encampments.

Social composition, organt-

b.

Coupist (coup d'etat) groups within the Armed Forces. In

ormation on Colonel Orned, his ties, etc

Military

• relations of Halts with other Latin American

countries.

d.

Idcologleal training of the drued Forces. Material and

reasoning used.

Information on soldiers who are in the International Organt-

zations of the JID and U.Ni and on the military attachés in

the Latin American countries.

f. Restrictive bodies; organization and activitles.

12. THE CHURCH:

a. Eclesiastical Hierarchy.

b. Situation between the native and foreign clergy.

Participation of the Church in the internal political lilo

the country.

Governmental opposition.

d.

Influence

of the Church among the popular sectors;

workers,

peasants,

students.

e.

Campaigns of the Church against Cuba, arguments.

f.

Relation of the Church with the plans of the United States.

g. Influence

of the Church on education in the country.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 7

4-00000

SO FOREIGS DISSEN

- 6 .

C5-311/01258-65

i2:

FUNCTIONS

CHARACTERISTICS

AND INFORNATION ON MENBERS OF THI

ORETON SENVICE THE THE ACCREDITET DIPLONATIC CORPS IN THE

COUNTRY:

I. U.N.

D. OAS and JID.

c. Officials In and from the Latin American countries..

d. Information

on the internal political life of the country,

obtained in

diplomatic circles.

13.

THE PRESS:

a. Information on journalists and the existing discimination

organs.

The possibilities of using the journalisis both in

the country and abroad, for our work.

14. OPERATIVE INFORMATION:

a. Possibilities of illegally penetrating into the country ali.

taking advantage of the proximity of the eastern coasts of

Cuba.

Necessary:

15. CONDITION OF THE NATIONAL, F.CONONY:

a. North American investments and their influence on the

country.

b. Belgian investments and

their influence on the country.

c. Other foreign capital and its influence on the country.

d. Level of unemployment.

e.

Exports and

imports, levels and characteristics.

i Characteristics of domestic capital.

major investment, its

§. Haiti's position with regard to Central American economic

integration.

16. GOVERNMENTAL, STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS OF THE ORGANS:

a. Relations between the Presidency and the Ministries.

b. Information

on personages closest to and most influential

with Duvalier.

C.

The Congress.

The most outstanding figures.

Relations with

the Government, the "Yanker" Embassy, and the monopolistic

enterprises.

d.

The Judiciary persons holding high positions.

Restrictive laws.

Important

Relationships between the Judiciary

other autherities.

e.

Information on officials having authority over areas of the

country.

S-E-C-R-E-T

SU FOREIGN DISSEM

---

