# 104-10219-10154

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10219-10154

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECREL

12P5S

SLMO2LDUA FOR: Director

liational security Açoncy

182 11

5/CK/I

ATTENTION

:45. benson duffias

601-284338

SUNJICT

: Quillias lanilton dartiu Bad cornon Ferguson

kitcah1301-593339

1o altached is a copy of a report rocontly roceired throug

Caudias llaison channols concoraiss a conversation Sotecon

Canaulan professor Dr. lians ilnov and ilartia in lloscon.

Tho

attacicent outlines the conversation junoy nad ulta "artin and

judicatos.that.boch.dartin.and Hitciell.aro attoupting.co.lcave

the jish.

Also attached is a report on Yuriy lintyeric: TOriOT, 24-ü86207

ñusor's host at tie ussR Acadory of jaiencas couputor Cauter.

3.

Tho Canidions havo advised is that tho FBl has racoivod

tho infosuation containod in tue airichaenis.

FUZ TLiE DEPUTY DIRLETOR FOR OPERATIONS:

George T. salaris

Attachaguts:

As

stated

CiNL-0Ü181-75

DDO/C1/R&A/L:w.derbe:daj (12/12/75)

vistribution:

Ari: & 1 - Addee w/att.

+1 - C/CI w/att

2

- CI/RGA/E 1 blatt

wlatt

81 201-08625741

B-901-028> 337

SECRET

1 - DIVD/TCB

COORDINATION:

Paul L. Rinaldo

C/DIVD/ICS

in draft

981 - 287338

12 unir a: 6198

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Dr. Hi

KOY professor, Univer

•y of Toronto, visited

Moscar from Septemoer 1-14, 1975 to

undertake resezrch at the Ussr

Acadeny of Sciences, under the USS?/Canada General Exchange

Agreenent.

The research was carried out at the academy of Sciences

Consater Centre, 40 Vavcoha Street.

Kid's host was luriy I.

perionality sketch

ley Skeeta is attache do puter fentre and on whom a separate

On September 3 while having a coffee break in the Computer

Centre KUNOV was approached

by a man who identified himseli as

Willian HARTIi, an American who defected to the U55k in 1950.

TART IN

openly spoke about his nast and stated that he now lives in Moscow

and that he is a consultant to TURGOY's group at the Computer

Centre.

He said much of his work is done at home but he does drop

Into the Centre weekly.

It was at this time that MARTIN told KUlOY that he would

Ike to get out of the USSR even if he has to run certain risks.

also said that (Bernon) MITCHELL feels the same and has

voiced his

desire to the Soviet authorities.

PARTIN asked KUlOV if he might enquire with the Canadian

¡authorities on his behalf to see what his status would be in this

country or 11 there was any chance of his being allowed in here as

KUNOV agreed to contact the Canadian Embassy

in Mosco: to see what the official view would be and notify lARTI!

MARTIN seemed most pleased at this and left kulov

his home teleshone nunber,

cautioning him not to say anything over

phone that would tio off the Soviet authorities as to his intentions.

This first meeting lasted a little over one half hour and took place

in the coffce lounge area of the Centre.

There were other Sovicts

present in the lounge, however, TORGOY was not among them. KUNOV does

not believe the others were aware of their conversation.

On the 5 September 75 KUNOV called at the Canadian Embassy,

Moscow and spoke to a doorman asking him no he might speak to

regarding some Americans living in the USSR who would like to immigrate

o'connor.

to Canada. slov then spoke to a UM! who stated that he was the

The doorman referred KUlOV to the office of a lirs. Louise

inder secretary to firs. O'CONNOR.

Kurov enquired about the Americars

living in the

asked could they be allowed to imnigrate to

The Embassy official would not commit himself and stated that

KUNOY should enouire officially with the nearest office of Manpower

and Inmigration when he returned to Canada.

KiloV did not give this

official fARTIl or MITCHELL's names.

KUNOV telepnoned MIRTIN after

the roassy visit and stated that the reply fron the Imbassy was

negative.

haRt'll seemed upset that KNO? should phone him, then he

later stated that it would probably be all right.

MARTIN met KUNOV on at least two occasions after the

5. September, all at the fertre, usually in the coffee lounge and in

presence of others.

They sooke English at all times.

MARTIN thanked KUNC for his trouble in enquiring at the Encassy

cautioned sunov not to get personally involved with him in this

and

venture as it would be bad news.

KUrO! promised MIRTI! that he would

check with Canadian Fanpower and Irmigration authorities on the

matter then he returned

to canada

SECRET

---

## Page 3

"SLUREI

The folewing observations were ma., by KU?!OT

regarding MARTIN:

(a)

Phisical Descristion

5'79 or 3" tall,

Fair hair, crescut, balding at the

temples,

- say suffer from a nervous condition, and bearz the

mark of a man who has experienced rough tines.

- alvays dressed with a shirt, tie and jacket.

- spoke perfect English with

a sligh. russian accent

on certain words.

(b)

MARTIN provided KUNOV with the folloing home address

and telephone numoer, cautioning him that his

telephone was bugged.

- telephone number - 133-03-81

117421 Obrucheva Street

Building 4-1

Apt. 126

Moscosi, USSR

(c)

MART IN stated that his friend MITCHSLL lives in

Leningrad and is married to the Dean of the lusic

Conservatory in Leningrad.

MItcHelL is very unhappy

and he has

openly asked Soviet authorities for

permission to leave russia and return to the usa.

ipparently he has never been able to adjust to the

Soviet way of life and is now very desperate.

ITCHELL Is willing to divorce his ife and take any

risk to get out of the USSR. To date hoever he has

been met with a wall of silence by the Soviets.

(d)

MARTIN is unmarried.

He claims to have a confortable

apartment and feels that he has adjusted to tha Suriat

•life and is accepted in the USSR..

He does not want to

return to the USA but would like to get out of the Uss?.

He said he rould have quite a story to tell about his

life in Russia as well as his sast and that he:sulu have

no compunctions about telling all about the russians.

MARTIN at one point stated that he would not consider

attempting to escape from the Ussi.

(0)

KARTIN claims that he is constantly harrassed by Soviet

officials.

His apartment has been broken into on

several occasions and he refused to use the Soriet mail

• system.

He has also refused to sho: up for werk in the

past as a form of protest.

MARTIN also indicated that

he has had several contacts with Americans in Moscow.

and that they have not shown any anirosity toards hir.

He actually dated an American woman for sone time but

did not mention her name.

(f) BARTIN stated that in the past American jourralists

have tried to contact him many times, asking for inter-

vieirs but their reuests have deen refused by russiar

authorities:

He said he hoped some aay

that. cae:.cr

or a take he Frot

to just knock on his

door and talk to him.

---

## Page 4

8356854

SEUNLI

TORGOV and KUNOV seoke in géneral terms about laRTiN

after the

first meeting.

TORGOY does not clain to kno: "ARTIN

MAPTIN has been at the centre for approximately 6 to 3

months assigned to FORCOy's the icademy of Sciences.

Prior to that he worked as a

consultant

in another area s=

FORGOY

comented that !"?Tli does mich of his work at home.

He said

he felt. sorry for iARTIN because he was not accepted by

the

Russians. in the cademy.

he also stated that he felt

"ARTIN W23

a basicallyionest man.

KUNOV said his motives for trying to assist WARTIN

and HITCHELL are based on huminatarian grounds, only as he feels

they are suffering under the Sorict system.

He does not. Intend

to take any further action to assist them in leaving the Soviet

Union. KUriOV hopes to return to the Soviet Union next year for

a more extended period of study.

This GECTEeEt t

the preserty il

sita: Il is praided de cochisa la it is fer ee solsi

el Us torerascãt el Cersea

Will 151 88206

futilisatino sir les

do flareracmin trintin

lisaslió de. ssil 32s

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

KEE

iy Igoryevich TonGOV

isie vicebsk, USSs, Head of Lab-

oratory, Computer Centre,

Academy of sciences,

Moscow, was a

visiting professor in Toronto and Ottawa, Canada, for

months - November 1974 to February 1975.

A number; of sources were impressed by TORGOV's frank-

ness and his willingness to speak out,

at social gatherings,

on current probles arcas in the Soviet systes.

For example

he discussed dissidents in Soviet society and commented on one

occasion.that: present. day Soviet society allowed for far. greater-

freedou of expression than had been allowed previously.

said that things were being said in Moscow that one would never

have heard in Stalin's era.

Nevertheless, TORGOV argued that

a return to "terror tactics" under Soviet rule was always poss-

He considered that such tactics were unlikely at this

time because of the personal philosophy of Premier Leonid BRESHEV.

TORGOV is reported to be the son of a scientist and party

member and he hiaself is an admitted party nember.

He is married

with three children.

He is considered to be one of the top ex-

perts on his

field (computers) in the Soviet Union.

He mentioned

• having travelled to other Western countries two or three times.

His English is good. He was very friendly towards Canadians dur-

Ing his visit but it was observed that he did not associate with

three other Soviet research students at the same institution.

On

ons occasion in Ottawa he was berated quite severely by a Soviet

Embassy official for his fallure to report periodically.

as re-

quired;

to the sabassy.

TORGOV later told a source that

this su-

bassy official. "could be a dangerous. man to your country".

nts trement to tis fussy of te Satererst of

Laterazeal

and t B sl t detassist mitail the tages, percitien

le Desert dozen es l propiéle do pinTercara do

Caruda l est scaramigo ses réserre patinsatica pas les

SECRET

261-282338

---

## Page 6

14-00000

The RCMP Lialson office

2450 M95.p2h.setts sue.

Hashingtos, D.C.

22008

U8/75/539

15810-115-38

2 December 1975

SECRET

George Lalaris

C.I. h.

DEAr

William Hanilton MARTIN, and

BeInOn FergUSON MITCHELI

Purther to your lotter of 6 October 1975, ue have

Identified and spoken to the Canadian professor, Di. lans

KUNOV, referred to in your letter au Marry KERNOV.

The

attrichment outlines the contact between KUNOV and MARTIN

B0Ü MITCHELL.

KUNOV has proven co-operative ag a source

on previous

occasions and we bellove he will continue to

asaist us vithin linits.

Also attached le a report on Yurly Igoryevich

FORGOV, KUNOV's hoBt at the U'SSR Academy of Sciencos

Computer Center.

In addition to any comments you may

"Lan to make concorning MARTIN's approaches to Kuriov.

se rould volcuno an assessment of TORGOV, 11 availablo.

Tha I.B.I. has ruceived the information con-

ralned in the attachuents:

Yours truly,

E.R.J. Miller,

Assistant Ilaison Officar.

att.

(2)

8aad.

1 C7a5 9

k:84 2284

-E0:037:38

w.4.

---

## Page 7

14-00000

iri

Re:

Dro Hans KUNOV professor, University o≤ Toronto,

visited

Moscow from September 1-14,

1775 to

undertake research

at the USSr

Academy of Sciences, under the USS?/Canada General Exchange

Agreement.

The research was carried out at the acadeny of sciences

Conputer Centre, 40 larcoha Streei.

KiNeT's host was

Turiy d.

TORGOY,

and in charge of the computer Centre and on unom a separate

personality sketch is attached.:

On Sestember 3 while having a coffee break in the computer

Centre KUNCY vas

asproached by a man who identified himself as

William FARTIi; an American who defected to the USS& in 1950.

LAST IN

openly spoke about his past and stated that he now lives in boscow

and that he is a consultant to TURGOV's group at the Computer

Centre.

He said much of his work is done at home but he does drop

Into the Centre weekly.

It was at this time that MARTIl told KUNOV that he would

ie to get out of the USSR even if he has to run certain risks.

also said that (Bernon) BITCHOIL reels the same and has

voiced his

desire to the Soviet authorities.

MARTIN asked KUNOV if he might enquire with the Canadian

authorities on his behall to see what his status would be in this

country or li there was any chance of his being allowed in nero as

a political refugee.

KuNOV agreed to contact the Canadian Inbassy

in Moscow to see what the official view rould be and notify #ARtIll

at a later date.

MiRTI seemed most pleased at this and left KuV

his home telephone numoer,

cautioning his not to say anything over

phone that would tlo off the soviet authorities as to nis

intentions.

This first meeting lasted a little over one half hour and took place

In the coffee lounge area of the Centre.

There were other Soviets

present. in the lounge, however, TORGOY ras. not among them. KUNOV does

not believe the others were anare of their conversation.

Moscow and spoke to a doorman asking him who he might socak to

regarding some Americans living in

the USSR who would like to immigrate

to Canadã.

O'CONNOR.

The doorman referred KuNoV to the office of a les. Louise

KUNOV then spoke to a UMl who stated that he vas the

KUNOV enquired about the Americans

• living in the

The ambassy official would not commit hinself and stated that,

KUNOV

should enouire officially with the nearest office of lanpower

and Immigration when he returned to Canada.

KUNOV did not

orticial mart or trichelL's names. KuoV telephored PArtll after

the embassy visit and stated thet the resi; from the embassy was

negative.

PARTIN seemed upset that KUNO: should phone hin, then he

later stated that it would probably be all right.

MARTIN met KUNOV on at least tro occasions after the

5 September, all at the Centre, usually in the coffee lounge and in

he general presence of others.

They spoke English at all times.

ARTIN thanked KurOv for his trouble in enquiring at the assy anc

cautioned Kov not to get personally iarolved with him in this

venture as it would be bad news.

KUNOV promised PARTIN that he would

check with Canadian lanpower and Inmigration authorities on the

natter when he returned to Canica

---

## Page 8

The rollowil cuservatlas vero made by buoy

regarding PARTII:

(a)

Physical Descriotion

5e7' or 3" tall,

fair hair, crewout, balding at the

temples,

pot bellies.

- may suifer from a nervous condition, and bears the

mark of a man who has experienced rough times.

- always dressed with a shirt, tie and jackat.

- spoke perfect English with a slight Russian accent

on certain werds.

(b).

MARTIN provided KUlOV with the folleing home address

and telephone number, cautioning his that his

telephone was bugged.

- telephone number - 433-03-31

117421 Obrucheva Street

Building 4-1

Apt. 126

Moscow, USSR

(c)

MARTIN stated that his friend MITCHELL lives in

Leningrad and is narried to the Dean of the Music

Conservatory in Leningrad.

KITCHELL is very unhappy

and he has openly asked Soviet authorities for

permission to leave Russia and retain to the UsA.

Apparentiy he has never been able to adjust to the

Soviet say of life and is now very desperate.

MITCHELL is willing to divorce his "ife and

take any

risk. to get out of the USSR.

To date however ho has

been met with a wall of silence by the Soviets.

(d) MARTIN is unmarried.

He claims to have a confortable

apartment and feels that he has adjusted to the Soviet

•life and is accested in the USSR.

He does not want to

return to the USA but would like to get out of the USS?.

He said he would have quite a story to tell about his

life in Pussia as well. as his past and that herould have

no compunctions about telling all about the Russians.

MARTIN at one point stated that he would not consider

attempting to escape from the uss?.

(e) MARTIN claims thai he is constantly harrassed by Soviet

officials.

His apartment has been broken into on

several occasions and he refused to use the Soviet mail

systen.

He has also refused to show up for work in the

past as a form oi protest.

MARTIl also indicated that

he has had several contacts with aericans in bosco!

and. that they have not shown any anizosity towards hin.

He actually dated an American woman for sone time but

did not mention her name.

(8).

MARTIN stated that, in the past American journalists

have tried to contact him sany times,

asking for inter

views but their reguests have been refused by Russian

authorities.

He said he hoped some day that

te just knock on his

door ans talk. to 210..

---

## Page 9

TORGOV an: "JiOV spoke in general terrs about kARTIl

áfter the first meeti-=.

TORGOV does not claim to know VA?TIN

well.

Mart l has beer

at the centre for approxima-ely 6 to

months assigned to 30?00% s group,

Prior to that he worked as a

consultant in anot.er area. of the academy of Sciences.

TORGOY

commented that 112TI;

does much of his work at home.

He said

he felt sorry for li?ti! because he was not accested by

the

russians in the Acadeny He also stated that he felt "APTIN was

a basicallyhonest nan.

KUNOV said his motives for trjing to assist MARTIN

and MITCHELL are based on huminatarian grounds, only, as he feels

they are suffering inder the Soriet system..

He does not intend

to take any further action to assist them in leaving

the soviet

Union. KUNOV hopes to return to the Soviet Union next year for

a more extended period of study.

#: Es " llligers sensity el de receidas 60122:861

859-101 11 01 8 ariassilica ribsil leg ougress paraiistia

==.

S: 811eS61 10012g0eDet d Can AntiTo

(c).

257

===

TE="

-=

=..

SECRET

---

## Page 10

Re:

Yuriy Igoryevich ToRGoy

TORGOV,

DOB 6 June,

1932 Vitebsk, USSR, Head of Lab-

oratory, Computer Centre, Academy of Sciences,

Moscow; was a

visiting professor in Toronto and Ottawa, Canada, for four

months - November 1974 to Pebruary 1975.

A number of sources were inpressed by TORGOV's frank-

ness and his willingness. to speak out, at social gatherings,

on current problem areas: in the Soviet: system:

Por example

he discussed dissidents in Soviet society and commented on one

óccasion that present day Soviet society allowed for far greater

freedon of expression. than had been allowed previously.

He

said

that things were: being said in Moscow that one would never

Rave heard in Stalin's era.

Nevertheless, TORGOV argued that

a return to "terror tacticg" under Soviet

rule was always poss-

He considered that such tactics were unlikely at this

time because of the personal philosophy of Premier Leonid BRESHNEV.

TORGOV is reported to be the son of a scientist and party

member and he hinself is an admitted party member.

He is married

with three children..

He is considered to be one of the top ex-

perts on his field (computers) in the Soviet Union.

He mentioned

having. travelled to other western countries two or three

times.

His English is good.

He was very friendly towards Canadians dur-

Ing his visit but it was observed that he did not associate with

thrce other soviet research students at the same institution.

On

one occaston in Ottawa he was berated quite severely by a Soviet

Fabassy official for his failure to report periodically,

quired, to the Embassy.

TORGOV later told a source that this Em-

beray official "could be a dangerous man to your country".

This turnment lo de studenty of

lan Estensest a

60Y8r95e7

La pésers CoaRest est la DreDiélé do FisTenicase to

ã, I Est commutino sous réserre f'attsatiao sal les

• At a lo ecua moe so cote t sinito ta soit is

aés as lastaturia 81913558 € 813121222008 CalLÁRA

SECRET

---

## Page 11

14:00000

6897

US/75/539

Dear Harry,

He have learned that on the evening of 8 September 1975,

James milliliison of the U.S. Embassy in ¡loscow had a conversation

cf. interest with a Canadian Embassy Officer..

siilkinson stated

that while atteading a social funition at the Australian Embassy,

he engaged Canadian Consular Officer Geoffrey FARROi in conver-

sation.

Farrow advised that ho had been recently approached by

Dr.

Marry KLRHUV, an Associate Professor of English at tho

University oi toronto in Canada, regarding Anerican detectors

Bernon F. MITCHELL and William ii. MARTIN.

Kernov implied that

he had had recent personal contact wich one or both of the

defectors and reconmended that the Canadian government give

Martin and Mitchell permission to emigrate to Canada.

Farrow

furnished no further details regarding Kernov's contact.

During the same conversation Farrow asked Wilkinson if he

could supply any basic background naterial on Hitchell and Martin.

Wilkinson replied that he would pass farrow's request on to

the Consular Section of the Imbassy.

given an unclassified article concerning the defectors which

appeared in che Juno 1961 issue of True magazine.

Ne would, of course, be interested in any indications that

Martin and ditchell are attenpting to leave the USSk. and would

De grateful for any infornation you nay be ablo to provido us

in rogard to the above.

I am using the CAZAB channel in chis instance as this

information has been passed to us informally.

YOUTS,

Georgo T. Kalaris

Georga I. Kalaris

Ht. Harry Brandes

DDO/CI/R&A/T: LHwigren (20ct75)

Distribution:

Orig. &

1 - Addee

1

- 165-2720

1

-Reading File

SESTET

---

