# 104-10174-10068

## Page 1

4400000

104-10174-10068

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

LAREEDERADS

MATERIAL KEVIEWED AT CIA MEAUQUARTENS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF NEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUADEN/DOLUE: LOPEZ, HENRIP

201- 253203

VOL. IT

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROQW:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

195478

DATE

RETURNED

18 T9 it

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAVE)

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Ehim Jean off

NO DOCLIENTS MAY DE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

INTO.

Chief, WHD

PROM

BUDIEST

Chitot of statioa, Mexico CityiN

Conéral - Operational

Speclfic - Haty Loper

ACTION REQUIRID. RRILRENCES

CLASSUMAXION

DESENSiTIZE:

PROCESSINO ACINN

MARKED FOR INDIXINO

NO INDiXINE PRQUIRED

ONLY QUALITIFO DESX

CAN JUDGE INDEXINO

MICROFILA

REFERENCE: MEXI-2755, deted 11 March 1965

Forwarded hereirich is the coverage of Henry Lopes'.

telephone

for the perlod:17 February 1962 tö 26 March 1962.

Sewait R. Patalien

for

Willard. C. CURTIS

Tas

CAICOS STAKE

Tho follerina

30.10n 18

auther

Manne RIBAT

Contrif

S::

Guilin Bla he Smich

R.C.

UH/L

cito

Lei

IC.000s

and coordinato:

• 12 approprtate.

As Stated (HEREWITH)

CAN. NICE

AR.

•WHD w/ast h/w

3 - Files

PS

BY

RESTED

FI

CATSS GIMLAZINNTO

(S COPY

DISPATIA STMADA AND MUMBRA

H7044-25995

CLARUIKCATION

5C8T

DATA

17 March 1905

1÷53÷03

---

## Page 3

HARMA = 35575

Is Araline: 9/1/71

- 11 March 1965-1001-353203

-----=

.....

......-

---

## Page 4

14-00000

COBPIDESIJAL

Chios al 0ea110n, Duco C18J.

Hooyd talleation Clair - Biara G."

MICERCA

ĐBT - 5791, datod 9/22/63

(8) E9 - 6030, celod 12/9/65

1.

Piazza lafora subject eplayes trat a chaci in laa erou:

5l $642.93 103 fORdal LO DEARI EL 4 Bereabsr 19i5. Ilio esount

repressata all baratita pogunlo uder eusject'o costrct lstallentie

•Tsuranca palley 20r ti chein to subratted sith sasorinea (e).

Il subfset bas any nutrer quetion regarding transalttal al

san osiament, bo shenia costact vIAli.

James K. Herinit

DIBES1D641938

3, OUS-StraTeO CIET

12-149

0 c

77 Decenter 1965

: 89821:82:11 139

testan 331a

08/BSD/IB

insichalears

1lo

st08

III

AC/E

il Para.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

MESSAGE FOR!

TOTAL COPIES:

1.

F' XXXXXxXXXXXXXXXXXXXX

ROUTINO

ORIG :

HENRY F. CONNOR

UNIT:

111/ B&F

ei: :

7763

DATE:

15- DEC 65

O INDEX.

NO INDEX

O PILE IN ES FILENO.

SECRET

TO

MEXICO CITY

T 5 DEC 65 20

32G

FROM: DIRECTOR

COMF,

-WH8

SIG-GEN

INFO: VA • FILE DO RID COPY

L0E2

MEXI

INFO

CITE DIR

REFS: A. DIR 47834

65500

B. MEXI T/A 64-66 •

SINCE TICIBORN PAID BY STATION, LOAN SHOULD BE CARRIED BY

STATION AND $125 PAYROLL DEDUCTION APPLIED.

ACCORDINGLY, HDQRS T/A'ING LOAN TO STATION AND RETURNING

DOCUMENTATION.

END OF MESSAGE

al:

file

Tiller

WILLIAM V. BROE

ROBERTI

CARTEF

SECRET

REPROQUETION DY OTHRA THA: YNE ISSUINO OPPICA IS PROMIDITRO.

20! - 253303

---

## Page 6

DISPATCH

Cles, iN Division

a 2535 19094

Dace rams.

SALI PRUITID DESA.

CAO KILL INTERIA:

MITANILN

Thier of Statten, Mexico City

EMITSTRATIVE/PER-CINE,

Crert ana Covert 196% incore Tax Faras of tarard fa TIES

STUMN NIMPEROS

ACHION REARED: Fer Mustach I

REVERENCE

: MEXI. 5550.

lo Please query Jerone 11. MisTs In rerant to the location or the

196l meet air covert tax return and payment cherk 1r. the arount of

$177%.00 of Farari G. TICHECAN and advise.

TIGreaT states that be inosed the only tro coples af each return amal

tie check to Easts on: 29 Arril 1995, Mather statine tet BaSIS told tir be

muld completel audit both. retus to aggre their accuraes in ravani to

mie niloal computations ant applicition on tar llatility. WISIS has to

return a copy of the overt return for TIcheDall's retention.

3.. A tharesan search of stacion files falled to uncoron te sabiject

tEr returio and check or any tanenitial record or naturis er pastint..

A, Sume TICiBOR: WIll be extrereiy. rand pressed so duplicate the returro

silthout a copy of the overe return, the Iratior, do tie returno 18 very tuportant.

WILLARD C. CURTIS

Distribution:

3

= 10

15178-6033

201-253203

14 Densater 1965

159111:25520

5C9E9

---

## Page 7

.

I•DID TO THE CO.

(LASSURIED MISSIN

SECRET

PROCATEIT TOTIATRE

REPACOUCTION PAOMIBITEO

MARION

COPT

BAID COFT

.

Ti:>

SECRET 8819A3Z

DIR CITE MEXI 5539

Đ Dec 55 N 1 0658

REF: DIR 624197

1..

19SA COVERT TẠX RETURNS FOR BENADUA, LIMOTOR 19 CRAPBARA

C. HUFIG), PINEINCH, SANDAMANIE BEING SENT EY MAMT 6919, IN. 18

DEC POUCH. HOT POUCHED EARLIER AS OVERLOOKED IN STATION ADMIN

FILES.

2. RETURA FOR CAZAZZUS SENT HMHT S398 APR 23 (JOINT WITH

DOUGLAS J. FEINGLASSI. RETURN FOR LIFUED SA, MOU RITA iN.

BLAZIK, SENT HMAT 59808, 28:O0T 65.

30 LIHUFF I SUZMITTED PETURN IMPOUGH OVEPT CHANNELS,

SIGHED COPY BEING POUCHED HAS.

•4. VILL REPORT ON TICHEON SEPAPATELŸ.

14.:

5-03!6

RETURNS

CFN 5550 62218 1964 BENADUM LIMOTOR

19 ZAPPAPA C HUFIO FINEINON

SANDAMAHTE MMMI GOIS IN NÖT POUCHED CALAZZUS HMMT 5399 APA 25-

DOUGLASS FEINGLASS LIFUED SO RITAN ELAZIX MMMT 599: 28 59

LINOSE I HAS

SECRET

064:39324.3

---

## Page 8

10018: Urr9. 010.

CLASSIEY

TO

FILE AD.

6

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL CO"IS

SECRET

FEFSCCLTTION PROMIBITEO

ACTION

INIC

ADVANCE COPY

WHE

EL RID COPY

SECRET 090108Z

DIR INFO LAPA ZITE NEXI 55A1.

8 ĐEc 65M. 0S 900

KICAPER LICOLIC

DEF DIR 59665!

1. SINCE TICHBORN MAY WELL BE NEEDED IN LAPA NEXT SPRING,

STATION AND THOMAS W. LUND (IDEN) HAVE FURTHER DISCUSSED COVER

POSSIP ILITIES WITH HIM. WHILE NO CONCRETE PROPOSAL FORTH COMING,

HAVE CONCLUDED THAT FART OF PPOSLEM STEMS FROM HIS NEVER HAVING

BEEN IN BOLIVIA, AND STATION LAPA NOT HAVING READING OF HIM AND

HiS CAPABILITIES.

D$2• SUGGEST ERIES VISIT TICHEON TO LAPA UNDER TOURIST COVER TO

CÓNSULT WITH LAPA OFFICERS AND SURVEY COVER POSSIBILITIES.

THIS MONTH BEST TIME FROM MEXI STANDPOINT; NEXT ISSUE LIREAM

PUSLICATION HAS JUST GONE TO PRINTERS AND HE RELATIVELY

FREE TRAVEL. TICHBORN FULLY COOPERATIVE, ANXIOUS TO SERVE IF

NEEDED.

StANctions

Tending 7o

SECRET.

Fiel

Bulli, it

RiGuerade.

59E5E TICHEORN LAPA THOMAS W. LUND NO CONCRETE NOT HAVING LAPA

TONTH: BEST TIME LIREAM

SECKED

Tickbom

201 fee

50-25.3203

---

## Page 9

14-00000

J.

F18bor

VAiT:

{It.

чета!

1506

29 Nov. 69

MESSACE FORM

TAL TOID:

LE SECREI.

O PILE IN CA FILE NO:

13

ROUTINO

та.

Mexico City

8

2 0EC 65 27.

PROM: DIRECTOR

SIO-CEN

CoN: WH8

LEO VA PILE E RID COPY OF2, CCS 3

FAXI

INFO

CITE DIA

62414

PLS ADVISE WHEN HDQS CAN EXPECT 1964 COVERT TAX RETURNS

REQUESTED INNS 1366. IF NOT RECEIVED SOON, KUBARK MAY BE

FORCED REVRAL TRUE NAMES TO IRS WHO WILL THEN TAKE DIRECT

ACTION.

END OF MESSAGE

•Roquested 8 delinquent 1964 Covert Income Tax returas.

06 k

•Kauinan

411111 3100

СліКО

9019ADIAS 09ICA9

_20089101/130

SECRET

GODICEA

too. no

PLIES T

2ri-258,05

---

## Page 10

14-00000

1 90

D 5

Ji-----

CASSANE BEDSAGE

SECRET

GRID COPY Q0.Ol

04.15. 85553 8-2,

DIA INFO LASA CITE MEXI 5009 CEASEY ACTINGS

15Kc: 65: 9506.3

KICAPER LIREAM

• 1. MITER EXTENSIVE CONSULTATION SITE TICHEORN, STATION UNNELE

D5•SLOP ACCEFIABLE PSOPOSAL SOR HIS COVEN IN LA FAZ, FAVE SXAMINED

AND DISCARDED INSEE. MAIN POSSIBILITIES:.

I LASTED NIRM MEING CLICHTS.

FOURITER BITM FOUNDATION GRANT.

C. PRODUCER OF POSSISLE MOVIE.

2• IN REGARD TO CIA: TICHECY BELIEVES HE CERTAL TO FUN INTO:

PEAR! HILL, GHO LECHTIMATELY INTEFESTER IN POLIIAY ANTIMONY

MINGO HAS CONSULTED TA CAST WITH THEMEN. AND SOLD DRESSNIZE

FISHY MATURE HIS PRESENCE LA DARE TICHEDSH

BELIEVES HILL VOULO REACT BADLE, SPRENO DORD THEIR NUTUAL CIPOLE.

3. PROPOEAL IS SMELLS TOO SIPONOLY OF OPERATION

CAMELOT, AND WOULD

OFEY TICHEOP" SO ATTACK EVEN

FROG THOSE TO WHOM THIS COLER MIGHT

APPEAR PLAUSISLE.

...

PROPOSAL IC MOULD IAMEDIATELY ORGE MITENTION FROM GIFARO

HUTLS, CLOS ACSUNTAMER О TICNU, ДНО LA:!А AUЕS1СА9

REF. 07.

20/- 253203

---

## Page 11

14-00000

VERTIETN CENTURY FON.

MUTIS JOB IS TO TOUVEL AREA, MEEP CLOSE TRACK. OF AMY AND ALL DEVELOP-

MENIS IN CINEMA FIELD. TO HIM THIS COVEP WOULD APPEAR

-.....

LUDICROUS, AS IT SOULS TO TICHEON-MUTIS CIRCLE OF

ACQUAINTANCES. IN MEXICO.

•S: ALL ABOVE IDEAS ARE, OF COURSE, COVER FOR STATUS OHLY.

COVER FOR ACTIC: WITH PROMINENT POLITICAL PERSONALITY MUCH MORE

DIFFICULT PRORLEM, AND STATION ACREES THAT CLANDESTINLIY PROFANNI

ONLY RECOURSE • NILE MEXI NOT CLOSELY FAMILINE OPS CLIMATE LA PAZ,

SPECULATE THAT TIONSOS! WOULD QUICKLY RECOME OBJECT CUPIOSITY

IN SMALL CAPITAL. HE OSFINITELY HOT LITTLE GRAY MAN TYPE, AND

MEXI CONSADERS THAT

NOO OF CONCEALING SIGNIFICANT BEHIND SCENES

FOLE

IN FAST MOVING POLITICALSITUATION COULD UNDULY. TAX MIS

TRADECRAFT.

S. TICHYOEN HAS SUSPITTED MEMO MAXING AECUE POINTS FLUS SOME

SPECULATION REGARDING USE OF FALSE IDENTITY, WHICH STATIDY

CONSIDERS UNREALISTIC, MILL. POUCH ADDESS.

CEN 53@STICHBORN LA PAZ CLIENTS CLA! TICKSOON HENRY MILL BOLIVIAN

ANTINONY MINING LA FAL CAMELOT. IC ALFARO MUTIS FOX TICHEORN-AUTIS

---

## Page 12

14-00000

NOT CLOSELY LA PAL TICHEDEN, SMALL CAPITAL NOT LITILE GRAY MAN TURE

_ UNDULY TAX MEMO

---

## Page 13

5 Novembar 1985

MEHORANDUM FOR:

chies, CI/OA

ATTENTION

Bir. Brown

REZ ERENCE

SUBJECT

Raward O, TICHBORN

(201-253205)

This is to conftra telephone couvorsation this

date botmeon Mr. Lully of your Oifico and dr. Ballimell

of wit.

• Wh/l again roquests that a ney Operational

Approval be oxpeditos on

Subject.

TICHBORH'S projest

1g Bwalting thie actioa in ordor to undergo renewal for

FY 1988.

3.

Please adviso this Offtco 18

any further actioa

in required by the Branch.

H.J. Keufran

Chief, 74/1

Distribution:

Dr1g. & 1 - Addressee

- Doster'

DDP/W/1/Zorance:bp

20/253203

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SECRET

Chief of Station, textes City.

Chlef, Western Healsphere Divlslon

Literare G. JICHBORN, Adsinistrative

decion Req: Para 2

Feferences:

"141 - 5791, 22 Sept. 65"

B.

c.

MeXI

HIT: 5271

Due to operatlunal requirements a meeting vas not

halu wien savard c. TICHBORN by an Ajain representative..

noted below wore briefly dlacussed with him

•by telephone on

26 October.

TICHBOR: was adulsed infomatton would be forvaried

eo the starlon and, upon his retuin to the station, he should

ast hls contact about the treminaboth as a remindri and for

fuller assiannelon.

As vill be noted, there lu a cimo element

concerned with c. beive.

A.

keference A (Transmittal of hospitalisation clain).

TICHEORY asked about the claim and uns adulied the disa

natch was recelved's Corcher and the separate cover was

received by the insurance Branch on 25 October,

The iro

curance section has ugread to expedite the clain and it

1s exected Pinence will allie the Station of the anount

ot relabursenent to TiCiBOR!! vitiin the nest bro-threo

tepili.

Reference " (Concersed signing the contract anence

cent Entariod by Book Cispatch

5178).

he Bi regarding signina the auerment still pertain.

plained.

In thls curnection,

hin read the too attached. paspalets

"your Sicial Securlty"

and "Soctal

securlly Asenrbent:--1965"

if cover or oper

stional considerntlong de not preclude, the sunphlets may

be given eo TiCisON to eleber read end returi to the

statlon or to retain.

COMTIYUED...

18X5 • 4399

28 Occuber 1985

11/Pers/WoS. Reneton: 839

6376

alstribution:

1 • Mi!Pers

- AT:/RAg

Mulati

2/40/1

---

## Page 15

14-00000

CONTEIUATION OP

DISPATCH

•CATINY

DIGRATI

+96504397

Reference C (Iraniaitred Incose Ter Informatlo%:

1n respunse to Bogi Elipatch 4559).

Thie Tax Cosultteo

was chected regardine richooks and adulipl they negried

arditional. explanatory. inforation fron TICSORY DIlo

to belas ablo la cumpute an Assessiaent and belaz, hla

under the revlier tas procedures.

TiCiBO?; could not

recall sufficlent faces and figures to provide che re-

quired Infomation, lie as therefore aurtoed le bas to

hits benefle to subalt the information to the Station às

soon after his return as practicable.

(1)

Uticer lacong.

He has indlcated recelpt of

feed but did not state wether they were the resuit.

ol sork outslue the U.S: or ll they vere received sille

no and as a result of sore lo the u.s.

If the fees

MIe BaInOd As a resulE di bore outsive the u.s.,

tiley are excludable fur federal tax purposes.

mit did not provide any breakdown or

explanagion as to unas che

abount represented.

13 nacessary to progise suiticiont superting Infors-

ensole the Couplebee: tu racozalze, the amune

as an allisable itro.

He also Inilcared a losa. of

52,000 oil Investaents, Explanator, facts aze reculred

such aroonaxes, then, reason for the losr (sale of

sinci de sxx versus cost of fix or whatever), checker

the loss was a earryover frua prior year(a)

Is better that too nuch infornation be provlded rather

than too liatio.

TICHBOR! 1s eo provide the informacion In writlag vich

his certification

as to enapletenes;

and accuracy fist tranas.

mietal to linadquarters.

If the inforsatlon is recelved.

within the first pert of loverber it is Ilkely the seo

viied procedures will be appliad for the 196g tax year.

Siest A. LUSTY

Attachagatas

As Seata!

cisssibution:

? = CUi, Merico City

---

## Page 16

14-00000

28 Qet 65

HESORANDEY POR:

AUBJECT

HA/BA8

TrANSIOS. DE SUECA VIA CCB/EC SO LUXEAN

AeBivity, Boalco C18y

¿ DIB 31730 3 AUg ES

S5,500.00 8r02 PrOJeet LXLI8D-8

DA SYANSPETRAI BAPRIÇÀ COS/BC 8O EDO LIBEAS ACEIV18Y 15

Mondce Ci&y.

To detalla on the actual granaler irer

a Hou gori baah lo the isstituto Culural Jator:

Anorteano, Baaco pacional do basdeo, Bucurasl Lonas,

Mexico D:ª., Marleo os 34, 300.00 allagouly boing

sada by chas castelo, and a cashiero chech tron s

Hos Fora Baris fur 31, 000.00 allegedly donated by Robert

CovIlas so bo pouchod to the stadion fron Beauguartera,

hara boon discusses vida cus/tc!

7,d. Raufaag

Ch168,

; 5/1

Distr1bu$100:

Orig. & 1 - Necreaseo

1 - COS/FC

>1..

50-126-353

801-259303

-W/1

DDP/aN/1/Ea211rell:bo

(TICHB: @1)

23 0c6 65

061 253203

---

## Page 17

14-00000

CLASSIFY

FILE NO..

PILE MO..

TO BRANCH O

SSIFIED MESSAGE

15 ...

SECRET

UnTIFIEn

TalL

COPIES

REPROQUCTION PROMEITEC

DISTADY

FROM

•VANCE COPY

ACTION

RID CUPY

INFO

FILE, Ve, CAR, cAle 4, cAleRoe, claR, Do 4, pola3

SECRET 1417582

DIS CITE MEXI 5027

140ст 65872948

LICOL IC I TREAM

REF A DIR 49336

8 MEXI 5025 (iN 72965)

16. TICHBORN ETA NEW YORK 17 OUT, WILL AWAIT CONTACT MILTON HOTEL:

2= IN ADITION TICHBORN COVER AND FUTURE OF MAGAZINE, SUGGEST HAS

AND TENSORN WORK OUT MORE ADVANCED METHOD OF FUNDING LIREAM.

PRESENi

ASIS

ARRANGEMOEN NO LONGER IPPEAR ADEQUATE:

•E ECLARTIE SA25 TICIDORG ETA IT OCT HILTON HOTEL. HOS AND

17CHBORE WORK OUR MORE NO LONGES

SECRET

THOS

TICHBIRN NEW VORK TRiP.

Pickles, 201

2010253203

---

## Page 18

Fine tireitile

c;.:

-. 718.

Cecil. B. ARLISS, Rita N.

BLAZER,

LIHUFF/1,

Joyce H. PINEINCH, John R.

Philip K. TESSAROLO, Edward G.

TICHBORN

Carol K. ZINSMEISTEH

te:

"!!:

.3

5

÷, ?

Meamee Cade DeCcessi 610d2 60 20111 11

caratere

hood mare

socia?

Sari!

-. .J: g.

tria iss

•=

itit

Taccandone

lucrospan

trafeydod

Go1 100??

io tit

§:':

1.1121A

tri?

1: 20:12490

instorie:

ti.

86.

interi?

1f6:

C9SSSp.S1

itts

Parterpote

Tottiid:

.

ritt Caratti

== L:

a:::

is,

imesherit

• :.

i sound tren milthes

i ditest"

CHES AG 0CT 1955

53

15Ei

69518

51;

hair

",'.

dios.

-".

222÷054

!:.

6576

---

## Page 19

.012:

'ri'

tinsi

1÷1.

ia!?!

un..

---

## Page 20

14-00000

SECRET

Mr.

servant Co Tactboso

Sachlete

Dear blt.

Reference la made to your current contract wilh the Valted States

Government, an represented by the Contracting Officer.

Arrangemento have been recently completed allowlag certain

Independent contractore of this organization to obtaln soclal sécurity

credita by covering such indivlouale under the aocial security tax

provisions applicable to employees. These arrangemente also laclude

a provision for retroactive applicability to the begloning of the

1965 tax year.: This can be done only for reasono of security since

the proceduto resulta la reducing the social security tax from the

sell-employed rate to the employee rate.

Ior example, in January

of 1965 tho tax rates were 5.4% and 3-5/8% respectively.

As a consequence thereol, said contract ls amended by deloting

all reforence to social security and by adding the followlag paragraph:

"Effertive I December 1964, social security taxea will bo covertly

deducted by this organisation from your compensation in the same

manner and to the same extent as mould be done if you were a Goveru-

ment employee. Security roasons make this procedure secesrary.. Its

implementation does not toply in any manner the actual crestlon of an

employee -employer relationship. Your legad status under thio agreei-

mest continues to be that of an ladependesi contractor.

li you recolve or expect to recelve full or partial aocial security

credits from overt sources you will so notify lois organisation and an

adjustment will be made or covert deductions discontinued, depradiag

upon the circumszances.: Further, ll you should subsequently receive

overt social socurisy credita, evidence thereof will be subrolited to thio

organisatos. In auch event your covert credits will be erased and your

covert deductions returned.

All other termo and conditiona of salá contract remain la full force

snd effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

SIGNED

Contracting Cilicer

SEGRET

Droop 1 • tarladed frora astoradle downgrading del doc ladsilicates,

---

## Page 21

14-01110

MESSAGE FORU

TOTAL COPIES:

x&xxxxx.&xXXNxxxXX2x2242

ROUTINO

OHIO:

UN'T :

EXT

DATE:

C.R.lallivell

Wll/1

$506

1 OcE 05

DINDEX

LNSEPRET

SINO INOUN

O FILE IN CS FILE NO.

5 Єст 55

17.021

то

NEXICO CITY

PROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF :

WH8

INFO:

VR, FILE DO RID COPY PEZ

TO

INFO

CITE DIR

MEXI

REF: MEXI 4855 (IN 60704) *

1.

REFERENCE LOAN APPROVED. TI LOK! TO HQS.

-2.

OBTAIN AND SEND TO HQS FOLLORING DOCUNENTS

SIGNED PY TICHBORN.

A.

PROMISSORY NOTE IN THE ANCUNT OF LOAN.

47831

67771912

В.

RECEIPT ÄCKNOWLEDGING FUNDS RECEIVED.

C.

MEMO AUTIIORIZING PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS HIS

SALARY EFFECTIVE 1 NOVEMBER 65 OF $125 MONTHLY.

3.

PROJECT LICOLIC WILL BE SUAVITTED FOR EXTRA

$3000 TO PROVIDE LOAN STIPULATING. REPAYNENT OVER TWO YEAR

PERIOD. :

END OF MESSAGE

"MEXI

4555 Request approval TICHBORN $5,000 for purchase

car in US..

C/WH/SS

Telhoow.?01

201.253295

Hillian

Broe

Chief, WHiD

RSURAGING CARIERA

COJE

Hi.J. Kaufman

C/WH/1

AUTMENTICATIDD

OFFICER

SECRET

---

## Page 22

To pIle 40.

X-ACE TO FILE

NO..

FILE RIO DES. Ng DRANCH O

DESTANY D'SIG.

FRUM

ISSIRIC MESSNGE

, SECRET

PEFFOOLCTION PROMIDITEO

ATTARCI

COPY

O RID COPY

SECRET 27231452

DIP CITE TEXI 4355

LiCOLIC

DEA DEPROVAL ADVANCE TIGOR: BORE DOLLARS FOP PURCHASE CAR

I US, WILL MORK CUT REGULAR REPAYNENT SCIOULE. DISCUSSED

VITAL ANSRIDTTE..

D. HICH ORMHOOT EXIT AND RENTER MAXICO PRIOR.

FENDS TRAVEL LAFECO, RICK UP CAR, FRESH VISA.

20 SEr 55 W6 0704

U'S 13 OC

SEAST

Tich 6520 120321

701.253707

---

## Page 23

DISPATCH

10

CUISACATUN

SDGRET

POSESSING ASHION

MIO

chief of Stutton, Mexico City

fORETO FOR IRONINS

DO INCORRE REQUIRLO

CAN IUOCE INÖCTINO

TADAS

inief, Mi Division

SUBJICT

Overdue 1964 Covert. Income Tax Returns

MiTION RIQUIRED. RUERENONS

Action Required: Priority:

The folloving apents in Mexico city are dalinquent in

the filing of their 196d Covere Incone Tax returns. You

are renuested to obtain these outstanding returns as soon

as possible since delinquent tax returns are subject to 68

statutory interest on the

le unpaid tax due fron 15 April to

the date of payment, and in addition are also subject to a

penalay of 53 per wonth, not to oxceed 258 of the tax liability.

Joreny K. BENADUM

Sandra B. CAZAZZUS

I.I FEUD/ 30

LIlUFf/l

1.IMOTOR/19

Joyce C. INEINCH

• John R. SANDAMANIE

Philip K. TESSAROLO

Edvard G. TICHROSN

Ernest A. LUSBY

Distribution:

• COS, Mexico City

CADES RIFERENCE TO

PASPATON STAGON AND ARGUEZA

1INB1S 4278

OLASSITRAIICA

SECRET

Lichtie Del

CATI

19 Aususe 1905

00314118,71719

241-153.:03

---

## Page 24

14-00000

TO

• 9100

p1l8 NO.

ART. 10 GRAMON O

CLAUSIFIED HESSAGE

SECRET

•ERSO:

MOTIFICO

POTAL

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

FROM

calo s

DRID COPY •

ADVANCE COPY

1a8Ur0

T I ME

U:

SECRET 4322322

DIR CITE MEX! 1330

" 3 AuG 65 E 24983

LIREA" DIDOR IC

1. TICHORN WILL ATTEND INTEPNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON GENERAL

SEMANTICS, SAiN FRANCISCO, NINE TO THIPTEEN AUGUST, AT INVITATION

ORGAMIZER S.!. HAYAKAVA. HE IS SCHEDULED TO SPEAK ON NINE AUGUST

AND LEAD PANEL DISCUSSION ON THIRTEEN AUGUST. AT HAYAHANA'S

SUGCESTION HE WILL MOUNT 1. IPEAM DISPLAY AND WILL DO WHATEVER

ELSE APPROPRIATE TO PUSH PRODUCT •

2. PLANS TO BE IN CONTACT WITH EDGAR KAISER (THROUSH MAYAKANA)

CHAIRMAN BOARD MAISER INDUSTRIES, AND WITH PHILANTHROPIST NORMAN

SIMON CILROUGH JUNE WANNE, HEAD OF TAMAR IND FALLERY. ALTHOUGH

NEITHER TICHEMN MOP STATION PARIICULAPLY SANGUINE POSSIBILITY

CUTE ISUT IONS TIANE LIPEAM FOOM TYESE PEPSONALITITIES PFLIEVE

SUCH PROMOTIONAL ACTIVITY ON HIS PAPT HELPS SUPPORT HIS COVE?.

3.

HE WILL ALSO CALL OU WALLACE STEGNER, HEAD OF DOEATIVE

WRITERS CENTED AT STAWFOOD AND ON APTINO COONS, EX-PRESIDENT CCCIDENTAL

COLLEGE, IPOLCH WYOM HE LOSES TO BE INTRODUCED TO SUCH CALIFORNIA

ALTUFAL FOUNDATIONS CIPISPECIFIED) AS MIGHT BE INTERESTED IN LIREAM.

SECRET

Tie felona 20/

204-253203

---

## Page 25

THREE ZOFZ

SECRET

1N/ 28983

IF MES WOLLO LIVE TO CONTACT TICHECON (PEPHAPS IN REGARD TO

SUEJECT "'I 2312) LE MILL BE PEVERLY HILTON LOS ANGELES FROM

FOUR TO STENT AUGUST AND AT FRANCIS DARE SAN FRAN EIGHT TO THIRTEEN

SECPET

EN: 4339 TIDISARN CENTRAL SEMANTICS SAN FRANCISCO S I HAYARAWA

HAYAYAMA'S LIPEA" EDGLO KAISEP HAYAKAVA MAISER NORMAN. SIMON.

JUNE WAYNE TATAR IND "EITHER TICHBORN NOR STATION LIREAM WALLACE

STEGNER STANDEFD APTUR COONS EX-PRESIDENT OCCIDENTIAL

COLLEGE CALISORNIA LIPEAR NOS TICHORN 4312 BEVERLY HILTON LOS

AGELES FRANCES DOAME

ST

---

## Page 26

29 smo 1965.

MEMORAVIUM PON: CaloS, WE DIvIelon

SUFJECT

Everd Go Fichsorit for Sochel Security coverase

the resposatbility for tilloy debedules se (form 1040) "y. S.

• leport of calt-fagloysent torero"

wich the social securlty Alrialstra:

for credit. so she taxpayer's sortal security accouat hos boes

delegated to this sirace for those individualy mo have filed covert

jefurco.

in arier do diecharge this responsollity sed de trsure shai

each contract agaet recolves full social security credit for ary

eelf empluyient.tas pali chrough the dovert lait, le is secessary for

do prepare the Sebedale sp (Fors 1040) for each taxpayer

iransmissioo to the sucfal security Aid. stration. ic

order to ronüese fore sa for Subject cortract Abert,

that che sollerthe doforation idesignated by on "X") be furdisned:

on subject's social security Cord,

Social Recurliy Nurder

& tetende address curreatly

abollcaile or the address used

wher tae azusyer last resided in the U.s.

8 ye al lusinees autiuliy to be refiected le reporttee

So:tal Security credito fron self encloyaea!,

suth

as

uncaresent coesulton, translator, writer, ete.

sisie a inree year studate of limitations applies to ibe ?1llng

of seif-employsens schedules for scolal security coverage, lù la requestau

Enat the above Iniorralloe be furaisaed as Buds as possible.

Any questions

regurdios tois subject should be directed to unfidellovert,

Pas Branck.

SM TIRARI

Ale:, luvert Tux Braor?..

3-083

---

## Page 27

SECRET

10 June 1065

HEMORANDUY fOR:

"ATTENTICA

SUBJECT

RIZ FRANCES

CI/OA

Mr. Lally

Edward G. TICHBORN (201-253303)

JYOA denorandun of 30 September 198

J,On Honorandum of 3 June 108

All of the information requestod on Subject has now

submitted to your office.

Project LICCIC, which providos

support for TICHBOSN, describes Subject'n duties as follows:

Subject noves in Mexican leftist and Maritst

Intellectual circles with a good range

of associations in this

nillou; in this context, he has successfully developed and now

publishos an intellectual nagasino undor Station direction.

Re is available to the Wll Division for ¿travel to

otner Latin American countries for political issessments or

for ad hoc assignaents involving cortact with local political

figures of interest.

c. Be is used to bandle dissident or disalfected

Connunists or fax leftists where contacts are requirud by

other Btations and where CA objectives are involved.

3.

It is requested that a naw lA on Subject be expadited.

hies, wH/

DDP/WH/1/CHal1iwell:1jc (10 June 1965)

Distribution:

• & 1 - Addresgee

11 - 201-253203

hally 1886

liquesting a

UMA: 7:

SECRET

8:1.353203

---

## Page 28

SECRET

REQUEST. FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

3 June 1965 pro

то:

мо.

Wa/1 - R. Arad 10

FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA

201-253203

SUBJECTI

78/ Edward P. Brown

LOPPZ, Henry P.

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIVERATION NAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOP APPPOVAL IN THIS. CASE

THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED

BELOW,

DA REVIER INTERNET TON AS SERICATED. REGUESTED

TEALS

RESULTS

OF. TECHMICAL

INTERRUGATION.

LIst

REVIEW OF STAFFIN DOSSIER

REVIEM DE STAFFIN COLLATERAL INFORMATION

REVIEN

SECURITY OFf.

REPORT AT CI/OA

OF SEC.

DEF. CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CI/DA

REPORT AT CI/OA

ATTACHED REFERENCE

OTHERS

(See Remarks)

REMARKS:

Roceipt 18 acknowledgod of PM Part II.

201153203

889

SECRET

insist

---

## Page 29

20 Hey 1065

HONORANDR PORS CI/CA

AFTERLION

8 tir. tally

Evard G. F'ICHBORH

(201-253203).

To perther assles you lo your colnveadigation of FIcaBori,

shans 16 attachad a copy of an uplated Pa Part Ii on him.

Hi j. Kaupean.

Ca108, 13/2

Attachmendà

PHa Part IT (1 copy)

DDP/WH/1/ Szerance: Jm

Distribution:

0 L - Addressce

1-201-253203

(20 May 1965)

1201193203

---

## Page 30

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSEGE

SECRET

PERSOH/UNIT MOPIDITO

TOTAL :PPI8S

REPRODUCTION PACHIBIT.

MEXICO CITY

WH

IMPO

VR. FILE

UNIT

TIME

SECRET I9175T

DIR CITE MEXI 3455

FEF. A

HMMW 13631

HMMA

261030

HMMA 26033

D

HMMT 546!

REFS B AND C APPARENTLY CROSSED REF A IN FOUSH.

DUTE

REF D IN THIS WEEK'S FOUCH SHOULD CONTRI

SECRET

CFN

SECRET

19 Hay 65 IN 7 1 0 9.1

IN ADDITiON

Junkin 2a1

5201-2532031

---

## Page 31

DISPATCN

CLASSIFICATION

SECRETIR DISCHU TILI

PRiKESSINO ACTION

MARRED FOR INDEXINO

10

Chicf, WH Olvision

XX

INFO.

NO INDEXINO REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIPIRO DESE

CAN JUDGE INDEXINO

FROM

Chief of Station, Mexico Citill

SUBJECT

Administrative/Security. = Edward G. TICHCORN

ACTION REQUIRED - RAFERENCES

References

DIn- 90817016

MICEOFILLA

The Station, after reference incident,

than ever that.

it really did not have a complete assessment

felt nore strongly

TICHBORN in the sense of what is his real idenlogical rierpoint.

This Is not to say that the Station was overly concerned that

TICHBORN was flirting with the opposition.

events described below, the

_Station-feels .it.has.a..reasonably

clear idea on those points now.

On 15 May, being a Saturday and two days prior to

enteriny a Mexican hospital for a long-delayed and

apprehensive (on his part) hernia opcration, TICHCORN

unusually loquacious mood for a luncheon engagement

with the Station case officer.: He showed little opposition to

three good Manhattans and, for the first time, the Station case

officer felt he was

seeing clearly TICHSORN "the person" and

not TICHBORN

"the lawyer".

In other words, there was no protective

veneer involved in the ratier long luncheon discussion which

The issue which brought forth the entire

was reaction of the Mexican intellectual to the Dominican Republic

situation.

• In the process, TICHBORN brought out very sincerely,

passionately, and clearly the following points:

when he was a trial lawyer in California for five

years, his real Inclinations were what he termed "leftist".

harbored a number of "reservations" about the way that things

were or were not happening in

the .U.s. under the.U.S...system.

These were private

thoughts and reservations and did not translate

-continued

00:22::

Distributions

3/- VIH

CHOSS REFERINCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL ANO MUMMIE

HMMT - 5461.

CLASSIFICATICH

SECRET/R

201-253203

DATE

17 May 1965

---

## Page 32

1400000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SEE NET SEIGNER

ANI MUNIO

HSYT-5461

thenselves into aution, but nonethéless polats of real

to. Mexico for à period to set

und ürlting off his chest: dering. that perind, he

Mexican system and somo of the iatin American

became very much aarolof the fact that

systens it was the

that counted,

in spite of whatever imperfections existed,

and is, nothing

that can anytiere nearly

approach the U.s. system".

"jure, there are a lot

of things wrong.: because of decisions made ty

hunan-beings who

are fallible and have their oun interests to lock after,

thicre: Is so much good and so many compensations on the plus side

of the system and the lay it works,

you car afford to recognize

the wrongs and work them out within the system"

He said that

this was so obvious from abrad that he just wondered why

ever had worried ahout incidents and didn't realise that he

was the "system" that mattered.!

He told übout some of the discussions he had had with

leftist Mexican intellectuals en these

soviet system capable of producing and absorbing such pictures

as 'Dr.

Strangelove' or having a John Steinbeck write a Graves

of lirath' and run off with all prizes in the writing

and mot?on

picture flold?

can you even approximate

that in Mexico? Witness

the furore over

"The Children of janchez" here whila the 'Grapes

of Wrath' was every bit as harsh wich respect to similar

circumstances in

and won everything."

On and on.

so many words, our system thrives on

"self-critleisn"

are things

to criticize, but what other system in this world

is not only permissive of that, but thrives on it.

•And so on.

He has

about any governmental/social/political/economic

system in any combination being able to even approach it.

3.

The foregoing

is a very brief synopsis of a rambling and

long

philusophic discussion on these points

in which TICHBORN

concluded his statement and, even,

tirade (his Latin heritage

nad

gotten the better of him at that point) with the statement

that

"My philosophy on this point,

and my present sentiments,

have been forged in the fire of thinking as a leftist critic

and having come to see and understand a great deals and they,

can't tell me a damn thing about what is

the best systemnnor.on

the basis of their present circumstances in their on countries

they any right or basis for criticizing the U.s. and

Nothing. is perfrect, and i can't defend it as being

perfect, but for every

imperfection they try to shor me in the

whatit has or has not done, I'can show then hundreds

their country and

any other one

they try to hold up as a model."

present time

oratisfied in his dun mind that TicHBoRN was

at least the Station case officer at

sincerely

speaki Station's mind about where TICHDORN stands ideologically

during this discussion and there is no question

even though he may be considered "lert of center."

5.

Since this lssue seems to hover constantly in the backo

Proud would be a good fran do resister the foregoing incluent

• thie Station

und appraisai with Headquarters.

---

## Page 33

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

- CLASSIFICATICINN

SBCRET

IATO

ГРОМ

PRECISSiME ACTION

MARITO FOR INDEXIPrO

NO INDEAING REGUIDED

CALY GUALIFIEO DESE

CAN IUDGE INDEXINO

Chie., Hi Dirision

Bavard. G. TICHBORA

ACTION RE-JUIRED - REFERENCES

AC FEDs Bubslesion of updated PRA Parta I and II

RBP

DIP. 96004, 26 Hurch 1965

SInce KUDESK 18 reprecessing TICHBOR's clearance, they have requested

on updated PRQ Part I and a neu PRA fart II. Please subalt additional:

blagraphle Information slace 1959 and full details of Subject's use by

the station in order that se bay facilitate the reprocesaing.

Chester D. DAIROLD

Distributon:

081 - COS, Marico Esty

CROSS REFERENCI TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND'NUMBER

1134-13531

CLASSIPICATION

S$CRET

IS 6002

18 MAY 8E

20 - 253303

DATE

11 Bay 1965

HOS FILE NUMICER.

201-253203

PeRINATIG

3. Zerance lux 19e

| 4523

Ì : Caraso

/0:19

i i mungit.

EE, in:

Ducated Fiscomald

---

## Page 34

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFICO

REPARDUCTIRN PRCHIBITEO

8801

ACTION

MEXICO CLIY

WHT

INTO

MOVANCE COPY

UM IT

SECRET IIZ80TZ

DIR CITE HEXI 3353

FEF

A. DIR ES8OZ, 11 PAY 65 *

B. HMHT-5265, 11 PAR 65.

11 May 65 IN 6 45 17

REF.& FURNISHED INFO ASKED REF A.

2. RETURNS DISPAICHED AS FOLLOWS:

HAAMARSUIST HMMT-51709 1F58

65 ITEM 48 POUCH 4517; TESSAROLO HANT-50!2; S NOV 64 ITEM 49.30J0K

4A43; TICHBURN HANT-SEL, 17 DEC 64 ITEM 77 POUCH 4482; LIbURS

4525

ONE HMMT -5295, 11 FEB 65 ITEM 81 POLCH 4525.

SECRET

EN. + REQUESTED

INCOME TAX. FORAS,

SECRET

TABORN I01

201-253863

---

## Page 35

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

16

ROUTING

EXT ..

4523

DATE,

10 Kay 1955

10

MEXICO CITY

FROM DIRECTOR

CONS, WHS.

0) DEE

SE NO INDET

O FILE IN ES FILE NO.

TO

NO OF GUR FILE

INFO

HEXI

REF:

CITE DIR.

08802

1095-3992, 3 MAR 65*

PIS FORWARE OVERDUE COVERT INCOME IAX RETURNS ON HAMANQUIST,

JESSAROLO,

RICEBORN AND LIHUFF ONE ORIGINATIY REQUESTED SEPT 1964:

END OF MESSAGE

* Requested overdue Income tex returns. be forwarded:

Deacond FitzGerald

C/MIDD

TICHBORN

SC. Sprin

• J. inursen

SECANT

SIPRODUCIION dY DIMLA INAN THE ISSUING CIFICE IS

101753303

## 808881848196

Carrie its

---

## Page 36

DISPATCH

Chie:. WHD

CASMPICATIOTN

SECRET

10

- XX

INFO.

FROAL

XX

SUAECT General - Operational

Specific - Updated PRQ-L On Henry P. LOPEZ. 201- 25 3203

ACTION REGURED - RÉFERENCES

PECTESSING ACTION

MATRED POR INDEXINO

NO INDENING REQUIRED

ONIY GUALIFIEO DESK

CAN JUDGE INUEXINO

MICROTLAA

REFERENCE: DIR-$6004 (IN 53853), dated 26 March 1965

MiCROFILMED

MAY 1 ≤ 1955

L ESC. 11922. SER:

Fowarded herewith Is an updated PRQ-I on Henry P. LOPEZ. It was

completed on a local Spanish form since this type of form looks much less

official than the others.

Willard C. CURTIS

Attachment:

1. As Stated (HEREWITH)

Distribution:

^ - WHD w/att hw

2 - Flles

стом бітін т

AN ANO Nee

KAÁNIA-26033

CLASHANDI

SECRET

201-253903

DAIl

ó May 1965

---

## Page 37

14-00000

5P

Nombre

comploto:

HENRY

(Pumas noinuio)

(Apsilido psierno)

LOPEZ

(Aprilico matemo)

2.

4.

Su firma corrionto_-

3. Nombre al nacer, (si es distinto).

ENCULE.

LiPEZ

Aliases, apodos o gamtios legales en su nombre (indique brevemente

en que tiempo, la rasón para su uso, y a dondo) aut

I MICROFILMED

Б.

a. Feoha de naoimiento 5/27/2eb. Lugar de naoimiento

MAY 1 3 1955

DENIER, CILISADE

I DoC. TICRO. SER:

8. Ciudadania en la aotualidad ll.LA _ Raza_

7: Nacionalidad al naoer y cualquier otra nacionalidad que haya ad-

quirido déspués (si distinta del No. 6) LL.J.A

8. Residenoia en la aotualidad (dirección) SERIA AMALETEC EJ!

Duoño o irquilino?...

Resterg

9.

Direodión permanente (si

es distinta de la indioada en el No. 8)

10.

Su coupagión en la aotualidad (puesto, sueldo)

LANYER

11. Ha sido ustod naturalizado como ciudadano de 103 Estados Unidos?

Indique la fecha y a nombre de quién se expidió el certifioado de

naturalización? -

Han sido naturalizados oiudadaros de los Estados Unidos sus pa-

rientes ceroanos?!

Indique la feoha y a nombre de quión se expidieron los certifioa-

dos de naturalización -y

12.

Parientos, amigos, personas oon quienes corrosponde en

los Esta-

dos Unidos, Nombre y Dirección:

HINA MIAS

MA. SANDrA DiMeSiN

CS COPY

AM, 10 N0DD.06039

5510233263

---

## Page 38

13.

Padre - Nombre comploto, coupaoión, direodión aotual, fecha y lu-

gur de naoimionto, navionalidad al naoer y nacionalidades subai-

siNF

seneras sustosaby tiras clegón in 1995-

14. Madre - (la misma información que del padre)

HERMINiA MARTINEZ DE LOPEZ, SÖU Badlon, Are. Toa

1895 ais

15:

Esposa (o marido): nombre completo, nombre de soltero, leoha y lugar

de naoimiento, feoha y lugar del matrimonic, nacionalidad al nacer

y oualquier otra nacionalidad que haya tenido después, dirección

aotual, divorojo, anulación de

matrimonio.

(De la misma infor-

nación en oualquier otro marimonio antorior que haya tenido)

18, 1933 in telongit

16.

Hijos: nombra completo, sexo, feoha y lugar do náoimiento, naolo-

nalidad autual y oualquier otra nacionalidad que haya adquirido

después, direcoión aotual.

Joaquin icPEz

dorn in Fer 27,

1952 in Jos Brageles, inhil

DiASILLA LIDER.

bora +1 594817,1957 inne

Is fungitan, Cali).

17. Hermanos y hermanas: nombre completo, seto, feoha y lugar de naoi-

miento, naoionalidad, dirección aotual.

ALFXED LOPEZ

sali.com

jack, 5, 1906 in Érchano, Prepair

JOSEPH LOPEZ,

Topas det 2, ines

18.

Parientes derioe dequior gobierno, nombres y puestos

ooupan.

ALFRED LEPEZ DURE JO 11.S. LABER DERT: in

Chicago, allinio de veteranio placement intricor

Aust.

1995

3302 sisatero fore; Pase Forzos, alle

aticas anteno Ser Petro, Calofrio

---

## Page 39

19.

Indiquo todos los oarnots do identidad que tione,

oon feonas,

númorog..

luga: dondo fueron expudidos y seoha hagta

que sean

válidos.

20.

Roligión. Es miembro de alguna orden religiosa?

Critholi

21. Afiliaciones politioas, en la aotúalidad y anteriormente

Democrat

23.

24.

25.

Viajos fuera del país en que regido - país que visito, leohas, pro-

•pósito del viaje, gente y firmas comeroiales que virito.

Seriel gon tare inde sole data

Eduoaión - esouela en que asistió, lugar, oursos, diplomas, feohas.

UNIVERSiTY OF DENVER

1442-45°

MARVATO UNIÓ, GRAD SCHCEL

1945-46. dentifa.

HARVARD LAN SCHTiL

1946-498 Bachelo of To

Idiomas y dialectos (indique si los sabe bien, regular o

mediooremonte)

Idioma SPANISH

_I00-

Entiende

_Entiende

Idiona _EN'GLISH

_Habla --

Idioma.

_ Habla-

-Lee

__Entiendo_

Servicio militar -lechas, de que pais, quo unidad, grado, facoión,

donde prestó gus

servioios. decoraciones, ouando fué licenoiado y

por que.

De detalles si alguna vez fue prisionero de guerra.

liS. ARMy 1992-44 Ditesent Pertinal Corps, Cp. Caros, Colo.

26.

Indique de que organizaciones ha sido o es s00io (profesionales,

sociales, politioas. eto.)

Hasad Claro de De pro

---

## Page 40

14-00000

27 .

Habilidades espeoiales, oapaoidades, aflolones, (radio, fotogra-

f1a, oto.)

Situadión monotaria - gueldo, depósitos en los bancos, bonos, pro-

piedades.

29.

Datos de empleos - olase de trabajo, sueldo, feohas, patrones, di-

reooiones, rasones para dejar ol empleo.

Inoluya.emploos que haya

tenido con oualquier gobierno.

silf emploge attring

30.

Ha esorito algo? De detalles inoluyendo títulos de libros, ar-

tloulos, oasa impresora, feohas.

Enimere las personas que viven en su misma direcoión, sus 300ios

Íntimos (individuos o grupos), aus correspongalos dentro y fuera

del pais.

32.

Dé oinoo personas como referendias, con direociones:

notasen

---

## Page 41

14-00000

33.

Antooodentes do jorte-Lia Corto, jooha, dotenciones, oargos, fallos,

34. . Desoripolón:

Idad

44

Edad que representa 44

Altura - 5px 10

Pego

.120 ile

Diontos arapela

Ojos:"-

roa...

Torna de la cara Mal

catis irown

cioatrioos mome

Figura eligente .

1.

Sexo d

- Thade

ispeoto gongral_.

iterantésione

Facoiones prominentes - ne

Otras laocionos distintivas meir alece

35:

Otros datos biográfioos y comentarios.

---

## Page 42

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

3 May 1965

TO:

C NO.

WH/1 - R. Araljo

201

- 253203

FROM: CHIEF,

EI/OA

Edward Pu Brard

SUBJECT:

LOPEZ, Heary P.:

ORDER

THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE

GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR

APPROVAL

•IN THIS CASE

IT IS REQUESTED

THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW.

OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS

INDICATED.

PRO I

IELD TRACES

TRACES

OPÉRATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES.

RESULES OF TICHNICAL INTERROGATION

GREEN

List

NOTICE:

REVIEN-OF. STAFF/D

OOSSIER

REVIEN OF

STAFFiD 'COLLATERAL

INTORMATION

REVIEW

SECURITY OFF.

CT/****

REVIEN

SEC.

OFF. CONCURREACE MEMO

REVIEN OF FBI REPORT AT CI/OA

REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE

OTHERS (See Renorks)

FINAL INVESTIGATIVE REPORT

This field inv. report contained no derog on Subj. It mas reviewdd

by the wH/l desk officer on 6 May. It disclosed that Subj's cover

since his residence in Kexico City is holäing up very

well re his

friends and associates in Los Angeles. They report that LOPEl

is belleved to be working for notion pix and logal rork in l'exi.

and that he enjoys a good incone of around 30, 000. (Its around

23th)

ink hennin

TICHIBORN

889 ...

1hr40-1360.

2..

SECRET

"went"

1201

201-25.3203

---

## Page 43

21

ROUTING

i: ORIG,

UNiT,

DATE :

C.PALLTNELD

K1V1

4523

25 MARCH 1965

MEXICO CITY

CIRECTOR

CONS WAY

MESSIGE FORM

SECRET

CINDEX

O NO INDEX

CHALE IN CS ALE SO. 201-253203

110D 103

TO

No Ci/iA, vl, FILE

INFO

ат ВіЗ

MEXI

LICOLIC

REF: DIR 90817

PLS FORWARD UPDATED BIO DATA PRQ I SINCE OCI 1959

AND NEY PRQ II,

EDWARD G. TICHBORN.

END OF BESSAGE

WH Comment:

Ref-KUDESK reprocessing clearance on Subj.

96004

Eaten

DESHOND FITZGERALD

CHIEF

WHD

ARLEADIHO

DEPICER

SOOPHIRATIRE

0191aS.51

SECRET

CATES

J. KAUFMAN

WH/1

16241253203

RUINE!

JITIGER

най ло совій.

---

## Page 44

CAd:

WH, 1

452'3

DAiS: 15 MARCH 1965

10"• Mexico City

DIRECTOR

s/ws 6 :

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET/RYBAT

O INDEX

• NO INDSX

LE FILE IN CS ALE NO. 201-253203

E DESIROT

A RETURN 10 BRANCH

O FILE RID

PRIOKITY

R

igr.

P.

no soe, S/CI, 2/052,IRFiLE :

PRTY MEXI

•INFO

IS RYDATOCURTIS FOR RESTRICTEO MANALINE

CITE DIR

wys2740

DEUT

KESTRACT

08,

"!i?

501-353203

.13890

ДВІ СОРУ ОЧИ

RI COPY RES

121)

---

## Page 45

DIS

ATCH

0h1s6, W/ 21v1s1an

CLASSiFLAIRIT

SECECI

10

INFO

FROHI

PROCESSINO ACTION.

MiXSE iOS INDEXHAU

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY GUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INFiXING

ALICROFILA

melor sationi enco city

Loss oF ersQual funds - Edburd

ACTION REQUIRED. DEFESENCES

REFERENCE: 15IS-3132, 22 AprIl 1964

the delay in answerin nefereee should not be construed na lack

of desire or intent, en the mrt or mean, or the clier of station,

that the case he subritted to tle board o! review for Mortages and losses

sor consideration, but rather as en roductrative delay of meting the racts,

perpie, raçers, etca, together and in me place for sumission.

2o Attached 15 a statenent preared by TICIBOR meraring the loss

of nunds and contrinire the pertinent clicunstances of the case:.

gub-nara raph núnerinus are in accorinnce with, and relatina to, the

requirements of macramn 3, a of fl 34-250.

The information requested

in sut aragranns nurbered & through 12 1s answero Jointly by Stchart

R. FATANER and Jerome H. RAiSIS kno rere asslened to trivestigate the matter

by the reporting official.

3. PATANER and BALSIS talked with MCcRl, at different times,

regarding the shortage of funds and the ingenins as pelater to them

were sunstantinlly the sane as outlined in TICiZON's staterent.

there 1s in other may to verify the arts aid MICROR! has preven himself

to té truthful ani forthristit in his dealings with the Station his

staterent regarding the losy of naxis 1s accented as fact.

4. Since TICINOW 15 authorized treral emense "on actual,

reacomble, and necessary expense hesis" it does not seen sensible for

him to have reported the loss of funds in other than the way he sajs

actually happened.

(CONTINUED)

Distribution:

3 - 1tD, M/att

CACOS REFERENCE TO

OIS?AICH STAROL AND MINASA

iN1-5?51

GLASSINIAISOH

SECTS:

DATE

101-253703

20 March 1565

---

## Page 46

CONTINUAHON Oi

DISPATCH

SECRET

: KP.T-3261

5.

It 19 mnecamended that TIchruss be alloned the arount or $575.01,

reprenantins Inas of nulo thile eraite pros pariva City to Buenos Aires

on 25 March 1963, ard. e errait Ill de sent to Station to clear tre advance

establiahed in TICiale rescint by lieaduarters 5/A 172154, dateu

23 june 1554.

#LAT C. CURTIS

This 1s to certifs that the above repart, to the best of iny

surtosiens and bellef,

inclules all information pertinent. to the consideration

or the settlerent of the secount.

MILIARD Co CUNTIS

---

## Page 47

14-00000

CLINIFITO MISBASE

S SECRET

0r 1818 80Y18:80

PERIL BOOIN

"TEN

MEXICO CITY

ASTARETO,

UN I

W. riS CA2, CAlPEg, SA/PRop

SEC P. E:T 061845Z

DIR CITF. MEXI 2712 SEASSY ACTING)

LICOLIC

RES DIR C8316

R27-018-94375

"TICHBORN GOING BE TIED UP WITH FOURTH ISSUE GRMANTLE

FROM APRIL TRU LATE MAY IF ANY PLANS NEAR FUTURE RE RES.

SECRET

CFN

1 68265м 17510

201-253363

---

## Page 48

DISPATCH

~135A/00

BRC&BT

10

Chief of Station, Mexico City

INTO

PROCIININO ASTON

MUNO AS POLIES

7O LATERITE REQUINTO

CRaT QUALITIO CESA

CAR ROCE RODUMA

FROM

Chief, WHD

@ Contract Amendaent Edward G. TICHBORH

ACTION REQUIREÙ - REFERONGES

ИКСОРЛИ

Reference: DIR 67851

Action

Required:. FYI

Forwerded berewith ig the referenced amendment

Eaward G. TICHBORN'e contract which provides for a one year

extension effective 19 November 1964 and a compensation

Increase from $0,000 to $12,000.

a 91200.

During Subject's recent TDY. in Washington it was

ande clear to him that this substantial pay raise and extension

of his contract was on the basig that TICHBORN continue to

devote 85 to 90% of his time to KUBARK activity.

In view of

the fact that Bubject iu currently handling only one intellectunl

project for

the Station, please explein to him that in the event

that his work

load reverts to the 50 to 65% leyel, he cannot

expect to continue

to receive the present anount

of compensation.

During Subject's talkg at Headquarters, it appeared that

TICHBORN understands this most clearly.

As a contract agent,

he is reminerated on the basis of services rendered.

for this arrangement, the government makes no claim on incono

he might racelve Iron his privato bustness activities.

Obviously

it is our hope that coupled with the occasional full-tine

assignments in other WH countries levied on TICABORN, that the

Station will be able to continue to utilize Subject's services

at the high level of activity which will justify his current

compensation.

Chester D. MAINOLU

MICROFILMES

MAR 24 1965

DOC: MICRO, BES

Attachment:

Amendment, b.v.

Distributioh:

Or18 & 1 - COS, Mesco City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

50 - 6-116/1

.R1

DISPAICH SYNEL AND MUNGER

03

KHNY 13408

МАЦАТНЯ

SECRET

301-253203

DATE

C4M:2 1965

SORRATNA

50-0-116/1

801-253203

OHIGINATENS

4523

INITIAL

202.

RIDIAN

PID/NTS

ANDRET

---

## Page 49

IBCBB]

Chlos cl Statlon, Bealoo Cley

1889 COVETE INCOLO TUX BOtHERS

Belerence: His 3700, Septeraber 1984

Ploseo toply to referonce onles concerned tho dellaquoat

Covert IndeDO TAs Returns ofi

DISO HANARJUIST

PA1 11P 8. THISAROLO

Ecrasd &. SICHPORN

Cheater D. DAISOLA

Distributioa?

Ortg a 1 = COS, Hesteo City

3 M48

FIAS 30028

& B

C B

801-209800

Jano Leranco: jan.

1383

chrono.

700: 291303

---

## Page 50

DISPATCH

Chief, WaD

CLASSIPICA:ON

SECRB!

PROCISSIMO ACTION

10

INTO.

FEC.A

catal of station, Maxico City

SUBJECT

Caneral • Adainistrativo

Spoctile • Covert Incoma Tax Return to Edward G. TICHBORN

ACTION RIQUINED - REFERENCES

NO INDEXIMO REQUIRED.

LY QUALIPIED DI

N:AUDGE INDEX!I

MICRÓFILAR

REFERENCE: HH913=3952, dated 15 January 1965

Refarenced dispatch has caused IICHBORN and the stacion to bocomo ovare

of gores sel probless uith tha Kaziran banklag ayoies.

As Headquartera may.

• not bo svare.

TICHBORH has a dollar account vith a Mexico City bank for blo

personal sifalis.

hasican banka do fol return cancelled chacke tö che

dopositor, bus only provida statesence.

TICHBORA requeated bie bank co

provide bin with bis

concalled check (on a loan bania) do that coples could

• be nade of 1s.

"It developed over a process of seviral peaks that the boak

could not locato thla chock nor bad it been rin through ICHBiRN's account.

Since apple time had expirad (1t was mailed in June 1964), the bank chocked

all accounce of persons wich Tichican'a laet nans on the cheory that st

might have bean run through sonsona else's account (not an unusual occurrence

here). It had not chet cha bank could discover.

As & rebull, PICHBORN 10 aropping payment on the check with the bank,

iriting the offico ulth ubich he filed bla ovort locome cax, edvlolng that

office of tha circuntances, and requesting sons word hack viether or sot.

In lect, that offica rocalved. and cashed the check. If the check vos

recolved, TIChDOaN ulll provido the staclon with a copy of che lorter so

stating and recove the "stop payment" ordor on the check.

If the check was

not recolved (mail la snother problen), then TICHBORN uill send another chack

and a copy of the latorchänge of correspondence en cha master with the bank

"and the incous tax authoritiee will be provided Headquarters. It is bopod

chla vill be catlafactory: :

3: The only reason che station la providlag all the grueçons detailo on the

foregoing is so that loadquarters ull bave soce undorstanding of che Mexican

banklag problons abould queatlons of this ascuro artao agalo.

LOT

Hillard C. CURTIS

DELEINEINS:

3 • WED

2 - 1108

CROSS BLEARANCE 1O

21- 28317b

DISPAICH STRADOL ANO PRUNEER

1047-5324

CLASNINCATION

IRAILI

CATA

MASS MIt ALAZIA

18 PARTURIS 18S

---

## Page 51

14-00000

SECRET

NON-OFFICIAL COYER

CONCURRENCE

TO EE COMPLETED

ONLY

TURJICT'S NAME

С.ом 201 но.

2032.5

292523

DATE OF BIÑTH

0519410.

PLACE OF BIRTH •

Tead Gi

U.S= RESIDCHCE

RESIDENCE

EMPLOYER

PROJECT

DIVISION OR STAFE

CASE OFFICER

his;

PROPOSEO USE

RoOM MO.

EXTENSION

1:993

TO BE COMPLETED BY CCS ONLY

CCSINC CASE OFFICIA (EXPENSiON SIAN)

COS FILE NO.

Central Cover Staff concurs

in your proposal to use subject for the purpose

In keeping. with the requirement placed upon CCS to maintain an

accurate register of current nonofficial cover activity, you are specifically

requested to advise CCS/NC promptly by memorandun when subject has been

The pseudonyn assigned subject should be provided cs/NC at the

time notification of activation is forwarded.

If notification of activation

received in CCS/NC one year frut above date it will be assumed proposed

use did not waterialice.

If check mark appears here, information of interest concerning subject

or his employer is in CCS/NC files.. After operational approval is received,

prior to making arrangewents for initial contact thereunder, you are

specifically requested

to confer with CCS/NC concerning other Agency

possibly affected and the advisability of additional coordination.

If check mark appears here the proposed use of subject requires DDP

approval under CSI 240-6, para. 5. Please review CSI 240-6 and

initiate

action as appropriate.

.... 2214

SECRET

101)

201259203

---

## Page 52

SECRET

SUBJECE (TYPE NAME IS ROM

IRS - SURRAME IN UPPER CASE

Henry !, LoP

2. ALIASEE,

VARIANT SPELLING. CTC NUMBERS, ETE

20)-253203-C7/08

! TIMBURRI

REQUEST FOR SEES LIST

HAME CHECK Nº 107603

DATE AND PLACE OF BIRT™

291469920 Dearer, Colorado

3. PRESENT ACTIVE ZACAOCATION

Legal Adviser to natioa pieterg camany Produccione

Marc *IV, So Lo

HazIco D. Po, Mexico

o. OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION.

LIE Harvard Lan Schoöl 1918

HI Beta Kappa. 1942

triter and lecturer

PAST ACTIVITIES INCLUDING MILITARY SERVICE

ACTIVITY

-IS fray dedical Corps.

1942-1943:

Atiomes, specinlising in trial nork

Subject activa li California state politica, ran

unsucces-fully for Secretary of Stute, 1558

70

ORIGIRATING DEF ICES

ROOM,

BUILDING

EXTENS:ON

352607

O FIRST TIME SUBMITTES

• ADCITIONAL DATA

• RECHECK FOR CURRENT

1J.. INTEREST IN SUBJECT (GISER CHE)

• ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

E OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

OTHER

LOCATION

CATES

Do to, Galifo

1935-57

B. OTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION) - ADD EXTRA SHEETS WHEN REEDED

Democrat

9. DESCRIPTION

Catholle

(HEIGHT!

• HEIGHTY.

(EYES)

1O. SPOUSE (iF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN MAYE)

Mildrud McGrogor. born Lexington, Kentucky

11. OTHER MEMBERS OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY AND ASSOCIATES

(HAIR)

(OTMER)

"DEROCATURY"

MAY RESULT IN A SERPEN

THAT. DOES

OT FULLY MEET REQUIREMESTS

See Green List 077832

"April 1959

116320 July 1961

INSER: CARBON: FILL

INSTRUCTIONS: SEND BOTH SHEETS TO F1/O.

OUT FORMS COMPLETELY. D

SAFE ES1 10-7

in 501000

SECRET

01

Don 253903 1

---

## Page 53

SECRET

TO: R.AraiJo

FROM: F1/0:V:

5 Fed 1965

DATE

pre

с)ДА

D.

SO SEE POSTER CE SUBUECT IN FIO BIOGAPHIC FILES.

A MEMORAMDLA IS ATTACHED: HERETO:

MITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIVED IM THE REQUEST. FIO IS UMABLE TÓ

DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT CR MOT..

Except

FIVE HAS NO RXSCAXEOEXINFORMATION ON SÜBJECT., IF INFORMATION ABOUT. THE

SUQUECT APPENAS AT. A LATER DATE, IT WILL BE REPORTED TO YOU AS IT. BECOMES

AVAILABLE.

THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBUECT OF IME FOLLOWING:

* Previous green List request from PP/PAD, 13 Apr 59; Op, GI. T7832, No record.

WE/PO/B, 7 JULy 1961, 0p, GL 111621, No record.

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

THEM THE SUBUECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOING CANCELLATION

MOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE SENT TO FI/D..

HEVIEN YOUR FILE-OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/O THE SHÈETS FOR PERSONS. THAT ARE NO

LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO CEMAND À CONTINUING NAME CHECK.

PLEASE- DO MOT TIE UP FI/D'S

FACILITIES MITH COM INUING SELECHES FOR IMFORMATION THAT IS MOT REQUIRED.

TO:

FROM:

F1/D

GATE

TIME

OFFICE CESIGRATOR

ROCH, DUILOING

CIPENSION

CANCEL THE STOP CARO

FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

---

## Page 54

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR IKYESTIGATIVE ACTION

sandcarry l copt of thi

leo)

LEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTION ATE APFPÜPTIATE BLAS

TO:!

CHIEF.

ICHIEF.

SUBJECT:

LNVESTIGATION ARE SUPPOSI DIVISION. OFFICE DE SECUMITY

PERSONNEL SECURITY DIS ISION. CFFICE OF SECURITY

25 галичту 190,

FROM:

Ro Araijo

73/1

382007

4523

PROJECT

Henry Po-Lopes

CRYPTONTH.

PSEUDONYM, ANA. OR ALIASES

ICI/DA TILE NO.

Edrard G. Tichborn

PROVISIONAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

UPEHATLONAL

FROVISIONAL

COURTI

SECURITY APPROVAL

COVERT.

SECURITY APPROVAL

CONTRACT

TYPE A

RI 201 FILE. NO.

253203

1. TYPE ACTIN. REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL

PROPRIETAOY APPROVAL

PROPRIETARY

APPROVAL

COVERT MAME CHECK

SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO fiele investigarion)

CONTRACT TYPE A

SO FILE NO.

SPECIFIC AREA UF USE

Mexico

9. FULL DETAILS OF USE

During past MY subtect has assisted in the daveloprent and publishing of an

intelicotual

foumal.

Aldo political action sissivas to other Latin Amarican

countrios.

INESTIGATION AND COVER

A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SIONS DURIAS IXVESTIGATIOHS

B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHORN DURING IAVESTIGATIONI

C..IS SUBJECT AMARE OF UIS: GOVERMMENT INTEREST IN HIMP

Ó. IS SUBJECT AMARE OF CIA INTEREST IN MIMI

E, INDICATE ANY LIPITATIONS ON COVERAGE IS THE INVESTIGATION ÓF

sUbJeCT.

SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT' TO DE USCO IN CONDUETINE PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OR SUBJECT.

DO

YOU PLAN

TO

INVESTIGATION.

OUTSIDE CIA:

EXPLAIS FULLY

GOVERMMENT IMTERESTI

Let res

OPE AND GREEN LIST

STATUS

COPIES

ATTACHED

ATTACHE?

A:TACHIO. NO: 267603

RI TRACES

NO RECORD

FCAULOD

Divisies

TRACES

(O0-01990A900Т

FIC:O TRACES

1OR0190

6l904716699

12I801EIEDOE IOIEERARICE DIRACIS

YES

NO

1O1ROGAICOT ATTACHIO

aa wintere

10772:1

SECRET

211233193

---

## Page 55

1:9t 08 5881108, DARBOA E9SY

112159 08 8192829

#TORTA D. FINESSONE O CANOTO MUORRE PER RUBER

-atum franoa lui da rapuriad sia frett feria da bo urots tubiura

110:8 TARATA REJORTE RU dO CATTATE, DONeTAS, 18 VLIL Le DaGeTAS)

sita

C: 65020A6 DI SON OOTS SOS ILEAUDY, DO MONTATA tO SITAGIANIATO 50E9

E: CATEN SASCO S8 TRUTTEN in la9 STAit 502-53.

+9+3717492a8s

DONA &. FARISATY

595 • 3958

15 Faskary 1968

649/eD

18/21

S7/CEE/02A/25)'LAsiy/CTM13x3/013

$ 3591

---

## Page 56

LASSIFIED

WESSAGE

SECRET

"COSON URIS NOTIFICO

FROM

ACTION

MEXICO CITY

ADVANCE

Direnes

M. FIL, SA Zy WE 6, WM 7, 003 3

UN 1.8

E CRET 9922457

DIR INTO PALO CITF MEX! ?13?

ĐTDOP IC @OPEPA

19 JAN 65 14 56563

REF A MEXI 2975 =

B DIR 75171

TICHBORN HAS SO MANY COMMITMENTS FOR SPECIFIC TIMES PY LETTER,

ETC. TO VARIOUS PEOPLE ON THIS TRIP IT WOULD BE VERY DIFFICULT

TO REVERSE HIMSELF NOW AND RESCHEDULE. OSSUMING LIND WILL RE

PRESENT. IN MEXI FOR SEVERAL WEFKS, TICHDOPN COULD TOUCH RASE

WITH LIND ON MORNING 23 JAN WHEN HE WILL BE BACK IN MEXI

IF OK WITH LIND.

SECRET

• CFA

SECRET

TICH BORiN

---

## Page 57

i4-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND KEVIEW

DATE

5O Deuember 1964

no.

Jo.

WHL1

FROM: CHIEF, ÇI/OA

Halliucll.

192 tunded ne scatte

C - 17119.

SUBJEET:

IN ORDER THAT

LOPE, Henry P.

THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE

SARTRES COMICE FAE ON DAY BE

INFORMATION CHECKED AFLOW

GIVEN YOUR REQUEST. FOR APPROVAL.

IN THIS CASE

OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

IT. IS REQUESTED

TRACIS

TRACES

OPERATIONAL

ANO DIVISION TRACES

RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION

REVIEW OF STArE/n

DOSSIrR

LATERALI

INPORMATION

REPORT AT CI/DA

of

• CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CITON

EPORT AT CI'DA

ATTACHED REFERENCE

REMARKSI.

_KKI

Since the original traces were run in 1959, and in light of question-

inforation developed; it la requested that a now 772 request for

anendment with up-dating of all traces and new Green sist requect be

subnitted.

On the 772, please suyply full details of use by the Mexico

City Station.

An up dating

natters.

of the biographle data cubitted in 1959 will facititate

Wh/1 is agala reminded that no Operational ipproval for use exists

at this time.

degranted 1400t1959

be closed

Unlese appropriate action is taken within 30 days, this case will

889

201-253203

SECRET

---

## Page 58

ATE,

7.10g

MC GRATH

k11/2/DR

7985

2 DEC 1964

MESS..CE FORM

13 Fi

CINDEX

C NO INDEX.

O TIME IN ES TIL NO.

'NENICO CITY, SANTO DÓMINGO

PROM DIRECTOR

CONT. WH8

NO CA 2, CA/PES, UR, FILE

TO

SHUBMX MEXI

INFO,

REF: M'EXI 1788 (IN 33670)

SDO!!

ROUTING

5

6

3 DEC6: 21 • 392

SIC CEN

, CITE DIR

68316

IN HIS DISCUSSIONS NITH TICHBORN IT TENTATIVELY AGREED THAT

LARLY DECEIBER 106A MIGHT BE A SUITABLE TIME FOR TICHSORY VISIT DOMEP

TO NIKE ASSESSYENT OF REID'S PUBLIC INACE AND RECOMMENDATIONS HOW TO

INPROVE SANE. HOWEVER, IN VIEN EXCELLENT AND THOROUCH ASSESSMENT ALONG

SINILAR LINES PROVIDED BY RECENT INTUBA REPRESENTATIVES HQS; CONSIDERS

DISTRIBLE THAT VISIT BY TICHBORN SECULD BE MADE AT APPROPRIATE LATER

DATE AND WITH MORE SHARPLY DEFINED OBJECTIVES.. WILL ADVISE!

END OF MESSAGE

AILIA1

776 OrICIa

12211

Tulitar

201

Олівіния

WHITTEY.

C. / NI!/2

COORGIRITING ORIGERS

0061.25-3203

L

QUINERPICAIIDO

SECRET

REPRODUÇTION BY OTHER THAN IME:SSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

"nay Mo.

---

## Page 59

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED-

FROM:

RID/Files

0 0 52

1O: •¡offuoi designation.

twilding)

41H/ 10 5006

2. VIA

CONF

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

REGUEST NO:

P AL

REQUEST DATE:

SECRET

102.

recivio

котилеско

MICIA'S

INIMAIS

3. B12

5.

7.

8.

9.

DO/CO

trato

3214

i mr aller

2. Tichlen file

3/21/3

10. WH EMO

Otin: mr. Wilson

11.

3B12

12.

retirato inte allen

-1H 133

11.

13.

MID/FILO

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

3-08

(OP-24)

DATE

IL MAR (8

1. O lease at to

basic die: AnnA-

911860 h 201-

253203 tlich

no pers

office

#/0 -

Thikt

Poço dols not have

original costeame

bapatch.

beate dispatch o

forward to ua for

1201 pile

INTERMAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

15e.6-

---

## Page 60

UNCLASSIFIED

O CONFIT AL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBUZET, '¡Opitanal)

FROM

DAZION!

NO

DAR

MAH/R 111C

TO ¡Office desipsation, rosa numbir, end

bratta)

DATE

AFCEMED

FORWATDED

ORTICER'S

INIMALS

OMMENTS (Nünbär noch commeri lo thoi trarà mo

unticirà Drov o lino. acrosi column after doch commier.t

3e1

1H33

The riginal capy

in head if it is

file inthe il

10.

11.

12.

12.

14

13

241

010400003

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 61

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH

SECRET

Chief, WHD

INFO,

Chief, KUWOLF

PROCESS ML ACTION

MARKFO FUR INDEXINO

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN FUME INDEXING

Chief of Station; Mexiço City!

SUBEST D

General - Operational/Specific

to Hilliam D, KIMROY:

ALTION REQUIRED: REFERENCES

ANICROFILA

• Edward G. TICHBOEN Letter of Resignation

REFERENCE:

MEXI-1745, dated 25 November 1964

Forwarded as a separate cover attachment to this dispatch 18 a copy

of the letter which TICHBORN prepared and forwarded to KEROY on

25 November 1964.

Strait RPatahes

Willard C. CURTIS

Attachment:

1.

As Stated (ENDER SEPARATE COVER)

Distribution:

;: 2 - WHD

w/att. u/s/c

4 - Files

CS. COPY

DOC FCXX22 7/0 S/C

BY RID/LOUISELY

¿ROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH STARBOL AND AILUBER

HIMA - 24860

CRASSIFICATION

SICBET

201-253203

1 Dee 64

MOS FILE ALANASR

200-124-112

50-6-11613

---

## Page 62

shite

Dear F.r.. Thomes:

Due to ircreesed demands unon my time fron other clients,

I find it necessery to relinquish my duties es legal counsel

for the IlLR here in Mexico, end I do so with great reluctence..

One of oy lieretofore-lesser clients has recently expended his

activities in certain real estate developrents in Guadalajara

sad Fuerto Vallarta, thereby neceseitating" frequent absence

from Mexico City.

Then, too, I had underestimated

the enount

of time and effort required to satisfactorily attend the verious

legel and aisinistre, ive matters confronting CEDS.

Should you

so desire, I could recommend other legal counsel; but I cm

inclined to feel that the Centro's principal problens would be

of an edministrative nature rather then a legal one.

As for my legal fees to date, I em subaitting a bill for

$650.00 U.S. Có. This represents a totai of 65 hours et the

rate of $10.00 per hour.

Hy regular fees anount. to 820.00 per

hour, but, in keering with uy own political affinity for labor

causes, I have

reiuced then to the lesser figure.

Rey I theol you again for your confidence and good will in

hevine chosen de es legal counsel for your ore-nization's activities

ir. Mexico. I shall be happy to give you a personal report of my.

observations on my next trip lo New York.

Sincerely yours,

Henry P. Lopez

This i

CS COPY

---

## Page 63

MANOES

MEMORANDUH

FOR: Contract Fersemen Division

SUBJECT

*'Edward G..

TICHSORN

ficase extend for a

perled of che year

with the followiny

amerusont the presire contract of Edward f. TIClibORn, which.

was dua 80 expira 1S November 1964:

"Increase in basic cranensation

то 313,000 рот

annus effective I Recenter 1964; and

additionai

Cod.

pensation of 51,500.cr cellars for full tise servicos

rendered la june, July and August of 1S64."

Degeond FitzGorald

Restern Hemisphere Division

DDP/WHI/DF/CRHalliwell:kte (20 November 1964)

Distribution:

Orig &

1

Addressee

WH/Personnel

NH/1/Mexico

(201-

AH/1/Mexico

Meno

file

- Mll/Registry

infusicia

26:153203

---

## Page 64

sjai dread

4.317

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

i SECRET

LABOR'UNIT MOTIPILD

TOTAL COPIES

21

I corr

PRODUCTION PROMPTED

CHIMENCO CITY

AOYANCE COPT

INFO

WH?:

TRE FILE CA 2, CALO4, 0P2, 0F3

UNIT

TIME

SECRET 12175O Z

DIR CITE MEX: 1558;

12.800 641821897

LICOLIC

@REF A DIR 63360

B MEXT-0770-- 1559*

CONCUR ALTHOUGH REF B MAY ALTER SOME CONSIDERATIONS INVOLVED.

SEGRE

CFN

*NO RECORD IN C/S AS OF 1500, 12 NOU 6A

#* RE TICHEN CONTRACT, SECRET

201-253203

---

## Page 65

URIG..

Costrefiel

UNIT , 811/1

EXT : 4523

DATE, 9 NOVEMBER 1964

TO "MEXICO CIYY

FROM DIRECTOR

ROUING RI

MESSAGE FORM

E NOD 2/ S.F CR F. T

O NO. INDEX

50-6-116/2

ED ME IN CS T NO. 201- 253203

11 Hov 61 40

miniaro RifAN; CAlOf CA2, 0P2, 0F3, VRI ILEN

INFO

CITE DIR

10 г

MEXI

ALCOLIC

RFF:

63360:

1IMMA 24353

1

EDWARD G. TICHBORN DISCUSSED TERMS HIS KUBARK CONTRACT DURING -

VISIT HOS EARLY NOVENBER. HOS AGREES PRESENT RXRIRE EXPIRING CONTRACT

CALLED FOR ABOUT TVO THIRDS SUBJ'S. TIME. TICHBORN POINTED OUT. PER

REFERENCE HE NON ENCACED NINETY PERCENT TIME FOR KUBARX.

2.

SUBJECT STATION CONCURRENCE HOS RECCNENDS NEN ONE-YEAR

КАХТАХК CONTRACT PROVIDE RAISE. FRON 59000 TO. 513000 PLUS $3000.

QUAKTERS PER ANNUM. ALSO LUMP SUM PAYMENT 1500 DULLARS FOR CUMPENSATION

HIS RECENT FULL TIME SERVICE FUASPEN. ADVISE IF YOU CONCUR EXTEND HIS

CONTRACT ONE YEAR EFFECTIVE 19 NOVEMBER.

" і

3. IIQS TOLD TICHBORN NE CONSIDERED HIS SERVICES VALUABLE AS

WELI, AS HIS EVER-MILLINGNESS DEPART ON SHORT & NOTICE ASSIGNMENTS OTHER

DIVISION

1 AREAS. OBVIOUSLY THIS PROPOSED RAISE NITH WHICH SUBJECT WOULD

BE MOST HAPPY SINCE STILL. IMPOSES NO RESTRICTIONS ON HIS SOMETINE

OUTSIDE LEGAL WORK, WILL BE WITH UNDERSTANDING HE CONTINUE DEVOTE

NEAR FELL-TINE MANACENENT AND HANDLING ORÑINE AND ORMANTLE PLUS UTi

ALETEEENNEEUS STATION AR ASSIANMENTS.

CONTINED

501-255203

59Р00IATоU

ORVIGRA

SEGRET

SRIPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIPITED.

TIMO

---

## Page 66

14-0000037

*=

ROUTING

IRIO.

UNIT

txt

DATE

10

¡ROMI DIRECTOR

CONt,

10

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

O INDEX

U NO INDEX

C AILE IN CS PHE NO.

INFO

PAGE TWO

INTO,

CITE DIR

63360

4..

DISPATCH, FOLLOWS ON QRMINE

END OF MESSAGE

WHI/POB

WH/PERS

4settor

DESMAND FITZGERALI

C/MHD

«TERABINO

KAUFMAN

/NH/1

SRRARIHATIMA OPRISIES

SECRET

REPRODUCTUN DY OTMES THAN IHI ISSUING Or

IS PROHIBITIO.

Coer te

---

## Page 67

SECRET

DArE

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

3. Novenber 1964

TO:

C NO.

HH/1 - J. Hallivall

FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA

G = 77119

SUBJECT.

LUL Edward P. Brown

LOPEZ, Henry P.

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY DE GIVEN YOUR REVUEST FOR APPROVAL

THAT

YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE

IN. THIS CASEL

IT IS SENUESTED

INFORMATION CHECKED BELON.

OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

PR0.1

OR STA1010.00581ER UNISE.

INFORMATICN

CION

CONCURRENCE MENDIAT CICA

rexT

C1'0A

REFERENCE

(see Momarke)

TRACES

OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES

OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION

L1S?

NOTICEI

harr

If It is still your intontion to utllizo Subject, please

comply with CI/DA mmorandum al 30 Septonber 1964. You will

noto that original dA was granted to PP/PAD in 1959s theroforo,

In essence, no arproval exdsts.on subjuotes

robert

feat: 1 s1

889

SECRET

It0)

200:213203

---

## Page 68

and sutrainers;

-0HT.0n-45-2.0002 -3

BOURAG

find

Fa'?

1

MEXICO CITY

10911.8

17 e

FROM

cow trife?

io

MEXI

IA PALP

: 0T7 016

56804

A .

NEX 1 1219 (15 03163)

N0r1R 36520-5

1.

DELIVE 3 OR 1 NOV GOOD DATES FOR WINTERRORS TiCHDORN NEEING

MEXI. BILL, CONPIRM WITH TICHBOUN WEN LE VISITS HQS.

2, PER REP A PARA 3: HUYETTE NOW BELIEVES THAT ORMANGER SHOULD

REOPEN CORRESPONDENCE WITH DIGODOWN. SUGGEST FICIMONS TRONIY QRENGET

SEND EYEITE COFY ORMANTLE WITH COVERING LETTER SUGGESTING NES YOUT

MESTING.

THEN DEVETTE COULO MESPOND, WITHOUT APPEALING OVEN LITI.

-ALONG SHELISE LINES NOTED REPED.

END OF MESSAGE

?.i"

a Store time

wind with

Mating't

C.

_C0:1A11119A-0215199.

115s

BRAIDUCTION AY CIHIR THAN

missue and s chase deal

---

## Page 69

a tellival

10РM

CLASSIFIEE MESSAGE

$09118 •

22

• SECRET C

PrASCHUNIT AnTArICO

REPROQUET ION PEONIBITED

CA.

ТЯОМ

IRE XIÇO. CITA

ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

wit?

VR, FILE, COlO A CAn, COS 3, CAleeSe CAlPeR

SS CREE 232232Z

DIR CITE MEXI 1326

REES A MEXT 1215 (Y93/63)

8. DIR 53655

C DIR 55522

200ст 64 N 96921

c=, 21

1. TICHBOR: ETA WASH NON OCT 25 AND WILL MAKE CONTACT INDICATED RES

3.

Culer

• 2. ASIDE FROM GENERAL DISCUSSIONS ON

EXPECTED DISCUSS FOLL 'SPECIFIC ITEMSE

fRiINE AND ORMANTLE TICHSORN

A. LIVIA: CONTRAGI AND CHANGE IN COVER FUNDING FOR ARMINE.

LIKULAX STILL WANTS BETTER ASSURANCE THAN DIRACCOON AS SIGNATORY TO

CONTRACT. AND#IN-ANY_EVEETS TUOULD LIKE-SIGNED COPY-OF CONTRACT+*

• ALL COPIES POUCHED TO MOS). TICHBORN TOLD TO SRING SIGNED COPY

EACK "ITH HIM FRO" PEPRIME IF ALL POSSIBLE TO TAKE SOME HEAT OFE

THIS ISSUS,

S. JUAN BOSCH SOOK SINCE LIMULAN SUGGESTING HANDLING PUSLICATION

AND DISTITGUTION SOMSHHAT DIPFERENTLY THAN ORIGINALLY CENTEMPLATED

-AND STATION NOT CERTAIN COMPATIBLE WITH PRESENT ARRANGEMENTS ON US

FINANCING, IT.

¡C. TICHSORN CONTRACT PER HEMA-24353.

S. TICHEOR: SENT LEITER TO THOMAS, BRINGING PROSPECTUS, AND THREE

COPIES ASIANTBLE AIRTAILED PER REP C.

SECRET

7611- 253203

---

## Page 70

FROM

otel

- CLASSIFIEO HESSAGE

500118.

30

¡SECRET

PEASON/VILIT MATIrICO

forr

PARiS (LEPiPIT)

ALIVANGE"

COPY

T0: Uait

TIME

aY

1150

ClO 4

SLOTTED

VR, FILE: COZ (WH7, WEL

219-42

SECRET 28161BZ

MEXI INFO DIR-CITE PALP 2532

tor: =1r4t:

200cт 6i c: 9667J1

DTDORIC AKOPERÁ

REF MEXT 1219 (IN 93163,

1. RE PARA 2 REF, WINTERROWD WOULD PREFER 3-A NOV. VILL CONTACT

STATION FIRST AS PLANNED AND STATION CAN ARRANGE MEETING WITH

TICHBOPN..

NO INDEX.

SECRET

#QueRied IF ncHBoRN could see WuTeRRoud

TRIP OR

ON ReTuRN To

U.S.

.. 01671799

SECRET

---

## Page 71

DISPATCH

Chief, WHD

CUASSIICATATY

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

ALARXED POR INDEXINO

XX

INTO.

Chief, KUKOLE

FROS

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBUKET

General - LICOLIC

Specific - Edward G. TICHBORN Cover and Working Papers..

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

NO INDEXINO REQUIREO

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXINO

XX

MICROFILIA

REFERENCE: ANMI

-24456 dated 8 Oct 64.

l. As Headquarcers is aware,-Edward G. TICHSORN is In Mexico on a tourlst?

visa and with a number of "associations" (i.e., law firm in PBPPIME, TV

and movie contacts in Mexico) which have sufficed to provide satisfactory

superficial cover for his presence and activities here up to this time.

However; he has been here long enough now and made enough trips to other

Latin American courtrics where a concinuation of this tourist status and

present cover arrangemencs should be changed for something more substantial.

All of chis became apparent when he began to try to obtain his working

papers. TICHSORN's profession, of course, is that of a lawyer; but he

..cannot-practice-this.profession-in Mexico. under Mexican law.Therefore,.

to find a peg for working paper approval, something else had to be

found.

None of his nunerous present cover associations or stories had enough

substance

to provide a sufficiently plausible basis for borking papers.

The corporation

being created for the QRMANIlE ectivity under the cover story being used

Ce-8., fairly affluent PBPRIMER interested in culture and intellectuals

343

trying to get sorething of the OMNLE esture started and then, intereste

PBPRIME

foundations in picking it up) sill nos support an application for

working papers.

As a result, the Station and TICHBORN were casting about.

for something else with more deptb ard durability.

• (continued)

Attachment:

Idencity (UNDERSEPARATE COVER)

Distributian:

3 - Files

.8:

2 IS 1130 i Tr

CS COPY

WH/6

155R0:0TT

NECK

261-553203

CAUSS 8E

i care

11-951-24631

SECRET

13 0ct 64

30-0-119.2

FIN: 1: 04277

---

## Page 72

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

HM41-24457

2.

3.

4..

During che weck of 27 September, an old friend of TICHBURN's, luentity A,

came up with the following proposition:

Identity A obna Identity B which operaçea out o! Mexico City and distri-

butes PERiME

shows dubbed into Spanish chraigheut the Caribbeer

South American pled. The business'has been in existence for

sobe time and,

accordig Lo TICHBORN, is thrlving. Identity A said that his business had

reached a point where he needed legal assista.ce of various types, but was

not prepared to turn it over to just any locsl lawyer since it involved

a wide range of problems.

.b. Identity A; who knew from conversationg with IICHBORN that the latter

was thinking about getting.Mexican.working paperg.-made-an-offer-to TICHBORN,*

He said that he would provide IICHBORN with office space and telephone in

his present office area in dountown Mexice Clix on Reforma if TICHBORN

would Just advise hin on what locas lauyers, to see on these various legal

problema and act as a very

general legal advisor to him on deälings with

these people. He and TICHBORN figured this would take, perhaps, 5% of the

latter's time..

Lacert neh tenthey to too ones tie worn pereould providen

his working papers.

various reasons, however, Identity A desired an answer right away (within

several days).

The Station checked out Identity A in Station files and found that there

had been some

previous traffic on him in the period, 1957-61: HDC-4-334

dated 19 December 1957; HMM-A-9445 dated 12. February 1959; DIR-40866 dated

20 May 1961; DIR-41304 dated 22 May 1961; DIR-÷1303 daied 23 May 1951;

DIR- 41228 dated 23 Msy 1961; and MEXI-8095 dated 23 May 199104.

As will ben

noted, the tay 1961 traffic concerned TICHBORN coming to Mexico and being

employed as legal counsel to Identity A. (This never really reached fruition

although TICHBORN used an association with Identity A, which was never more

chan close social

contact and on incerest in shot business, as one of his

various cover stories.) In all this traffic, there was not any derogatory

information developed on Identity A T

Therefore, the Station on strength

of the Liming required and this previous traffic-told TICHBORN to go ahead =*

with the arrangement since it is not only essential for his local activities,

but will provide him with stronger and readily-available cover for any

further Latin American trips (l.e., FUASPEN) he might be rèquired to make.

TICHBORN has been cold, to transact an absclute minimum of his business for

KUBARK at this office on his regular projects. (e.g.,. QRMINE and QRMANTLE).

Hopefully, chis will also

straighten out the working papers problem on sone

sort of rational basis in

the near future.

Willard C. CURTIS

---

## Page 73

SECRET

Separate Cover Accochment Al to

HMMA - 24457

Identity A - John Nichols MANSON III

- 3- СИІ-ТАсА

Identity B - Magnun TV and Mark IV Productiong

SEEBST

ES COPY

251-053603

---

## Page 74

€9

SECRET

(WHEN THIED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTPUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Delach back flap and

torward to RID.

significant action lakon or comments roguir.

üig presorvation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

Il tilo no. and title shown are not proper, in

sert proper nie no. below and terward doc-

umont to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK. IF AFPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

"TO WROOM

DATE

RECEIVED

35*11

see Wales

5.

July is ind cont

F Darched v4)

plife infor survels

9.

10.

1023

Xi in in 50-6-116/3

2c 53.

32

12.

Rig/mIS

ід.

19

10.

17

NOrE:

sial did

Disr:! 1.:

+010253203

RID 17

---

## Page 75

rill lante

Mma Man He-are 143

DISPATCH

OUNSITICATION

SECRET

MATACO 109 180111*9...

Chief, WHO

что

XX

FROM

WaTEr General - LICONGA

Chief of Stacion, Mexico Goyle

•Specific - Edward G. -TICHBORN Contract

ACTON FIQUITTE: RVERENCES

I REQUIELD

CALT MALIFILD DESA

CAN ANAGE LATCHITO

-----

XX

201-253203

" REFERENCE:- HHMA-24352, dated" 22 September 1964.

.1. As probably.can.be.discerned from previoud communications on thie subject,

the Station has never been too certain about the original understandings with

subject on his relationghip wich KUBARK. At lengt some understandings have

been

supplementary. to the forml contractfsuchcas;his.avallibility for-extended

trips to Latin American areas in election periods).

This is no complaint on

the part of the Station, büt merely a prelude to a maccer which the Station

brought up with TICHBORN in connection with his Intellectual magazine and

QRMINS activities.

2.

It has been the Station's inference, from calking to TICHBORN as well a8

comunications on oiher aspects of his relationship with KUBARK net covered

in his contract, that he 1a not to be considered a full-time contract agent.

In other words.

has.outside activitles.in_che_legal.and other_fields-here.

which. It was understood would provide additional income to him at the time he

entered into his

original relocionship with KUBARK. As can be discerned from

his biographic data, he has operated at a level and enjoyed an income out look

chat sould not be

satisfied by the present contractual arrangements on salary.

It has become obvious to the Stacion, however, that if he is to handle, properly,

present requiremet is being, imposed on him by the Station

assor his available tine is going to be Involved.

15.100 A

very hish percentage i

(continued)

Distribution:

C- WHD

2 • Piles

Mustards

RECLASSIFIE?

RI/ ATT

RI/BIS

PI/Fi103

Us:.

CROSS RECTALACE TO

L3 COPY

→ t00 MaR

14851-2.4353

CAstration

SCRET

511-253903

lest 4n44t

22 Sep. 64

50-8-11618

---

## Page 76

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

"іт.

SECRET

H741-24353

.3.. Taking all the foregoing into conalderation and to avoid complicatione vich

hio present projects or TICKBORN, the Station asked him what understanding ho

had op the proportiou of his time to be dovoted to KUBARX accivities.

He said

chat his present contract was predicated on approximacely 60 to 80-3/38 of

his time being utilixed by XUBARK. His predent estimate is chat he la devoting

85 to 90% of hia ciue to KUBARK actlultied; and, if he la to do che kind of job

that Is destred on the too intellectual projects recently acquired, ho vill

suetain chat percentago, Of couroe, he continues to be available for appropríato

election of political aesignmente (such as PUASPEN) in other countrios from Elrio

to tine; but, it haa to be recognised that when he is absent froa tuxico,

chlo represents 1007 of ble time.

4.

The Station agreco with his analysts on currert commitments against hia

time on behalf of KUBARK.

Thorefore,

it was indicated to TICHBORN chat he

should be prepared to toke-up this matter with Headquarterseat the time he

wakes his late October trip to PBPRIME In connection with the nes intellectual

magazine (see reference) and that the Station would request Headquartors to be

prepared to dlacuss the matter at that time. It 18 the Station's understanding

that his present contract extension expires 19 November 1964.

5.

"The

Station would like to emphasize that this matter was brought up at ito

Initiative in order to try. (n) to assure that demands being placed

on TICHBORN

recently could be reasonably expected to be fulfilled and (b) co get a complete

understandlug on all aspects uf TICHBORN's contractual status fritten

and

unwrittend so that neither the Station nor TICHBORN get commicted to these

continuing actlvities ard suddenly find themselves in contention about the

. line/salary-Involved.-It-should also-be emphasized chat TICHBORN 4as. not.

complained about recent requiremants, but has devoted whatever time requirod

to handle them and do the Job expected.

for

Willard C. CURTIS

3-2.

1012? 1000d гра сао ВіАс

rai.

---

## Page 77

•CLASSIANCATIONA

BECRET

DISPATCH

10

ГЯОМ

Chlor, WID

enter or italion Mexice siste

Edvard O. TICHBORN

ACTION REQUIRCO: RULALNCES

PROCISSING ACLION

SURICO NOR INTRIM

xXXX

ONLI QUALIFICO DESA

CAT SUOCE IMDUTINO

MICROrIM.

Refarenue!

ian?

HMAN - 12847, 21 August 1964

a Bard 0. TICHBORN!& contract uhould be renewed.

Station 1'3

awaiting hia: retum from Chilo to diacuss possible changes, which

vill bo forvardod sa soon da posalbla.

willard C. CURIIS

Distribution:

- WHD

- Filea

CS COPY

CROSS REFERANCE TO

MISPATCH SIMODI AND MAINEER

HMA -24259

GLASHIISCAMON

SECRÊT

201: 253203

DATE

4 September 1964

HGBIRIMUMEAR

201-253203

---

## Page 78

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chiot of 5ta8100, Lassco Clay

SECRET

NO INDIXING NIO:197D

ONIT QUALIPIRO DESE

CAN PUDGE INEEINO

PRETORILA

Ca108 VS DiTtaloO

ACTION REQUIRTO ENERENCES

1963 LodgEt Locodo Tax Betarta

sccordino to the recoris in the difice of Pinance, slo

10ll0n1as naood ludloldual have falloi so d1lo tho rogulred CoverE

gor. 1963. Bloce the due late for Incons fas

Retara In 15 April 1or 1ad1alcaly phyulcaily prosont In Parala:

Da BRaS date Baù 15 JuDo or IndivIduain

who ste siroad on 15 april.

al8 01 2h0 foxlorind Induldnala are now dollegeant Gies reepect so

EDELi PEPTINY XICERO TRI TOSPORTIDILABLON!

MaNICO 00A

Boxico 021

4810r2. - 1

FALlID I. TESBIRCIO

Beward.0. 37CHBORN

I8 Is rogues that giars bo saloo do precare the sus-

@ADdINg dAE FORISTS SA BOON LA FORciblO PlACE dallIqUenT tas

Piluren are subject to th atatutory interart on the dayald des dos

Saw 19 Anil to dele Di LajaB daù 1a addiglen

are alas sabjore

"DanY per monty not to exceod, 355.09.820-323.11051-1167

Sor Talluro to flie tay retarmo.

CRENSES D. LAIROLD

D1str11t10n1

cos,

-o...6111146./910110.12 97..2111604

сат taP 5

3700

CAbINATA

2701-413243

€ Bay? +2499 1934

MISS AT: 9 10-0818

---

## Page 79

14-00000

SECRET

31 August 1967

MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, W8/1

SUBJECT

1963 Covert Incoue Tax Returas

i.

According to the records ta the Compensation and Tax Division,

Office of Finance,

the following named individuals are required to file

Covert Income Tax Returns for 1963, but have fatled to do so to date.

The due date for Income Tax Returns 1s 15 April for individuals physically

present in the United States on that date and 15 June for individuals who

are abroad on 15 April. Therefore, all of the following listed individuals

are now delinquent with respect to their U. S. Income Tax responsibilities:

Otto. HAMMARQUIST

Mexico OVA

LIBUFF fI

• Mexico 00A

Fat lip K. TESSAROLO

Project LIEMBOSS

Edward G. TICHBORN

Project LICCHIC

2.

It is requested that steps be taken to procure the outstanding

tax returns as soon es possible since delinquent tax returns are subject

to 6p statutory interest on the unpaid tax due from 15 April to date of

payment and in addition are also subject to a penalty of 5% per boath, not

to exceed 25% of the tax lability, for fallure to file tax returns.

25234804007

3. It is also requested that wa/bar be furnished with a copy of uas

correspondence going to the Field ulth respect to this subject.

Desmond FitzGerald

Chief

Western Hendsphere Division

700.

I Eraste

• 8:1

SECRET

wir 253÷03

---

## Page 80

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chlet of Station, Mexico City

QLASSIRACAIETY

SSCRBT

# NAKIC FOR MAGENNI

NO INCENLAL REQUITED

ONIY CHLALIRITO DEST

CAN JiD' INDEXIS

MICROFILE

INFO.

FROM

Chief, FH Division

SuBy

Edward G. TICROEH

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Subject's contract will expire 18 Novenber 1964. Please

advise by return dispatch bether the contract should be

renesed and 1f asy changes are desired.

Chester D. DAINOLD

Distribution:

O&1 - COS, Hexico CIty

CROSS REFERERCE 10

tariettes

1H88 13842702

L.

201-253203

DATE

MaS FE 210 Aagast- 1969

DEGIN 797-963388

OFFICE

WR/1/R.

Lehman: chl

4506

Distribution:

Rouftf&po

RID/AY

RID/UTS

Hits Fis

Oo:06:83-84196

INITIAL

HIV PERS

---

## Page 81

27

LASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTiNG

TO

• DIRECTOR

FROM, MEXICO CITy

ACTION, BUH?

SECRET 1222282

12haSm:9025

SAGO INFO DIR CITE MEXI 3553

FUASPEN

sprayer Fari

EDWARD G TICHBORN ETA LIMA 2703 17 AUG AND ETA SANTIAGO 1138

17 AUA VIA CANADIAN PACIFIC. CHECKED FLIGHT SCHEDULES FROM

ANTOF.AGASTA

AHD FEARS STOPOVER TIME CAN TIE HIM UP THREE DAYS,

IF STOPOVER

DESIRED ANYUAY. PLS INFORM MEXI BY COB IS AUG, -

-23.

SECRET

-

SECRET

#PRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING GIFICE IS PROTESTIO

" - В д і та окатроти

Cerry Na.

Ful 213763

---

## Page 82

WESTRIAL

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

UNIT : FINANCE

EXT

: 7483

DATE: 26 MAY 196%

TO : MEXICO CITY

FRON: DIRECTOR

CONF: CFD 3

INFO: Wit?, VR

O NO INGEN

O FIRE IN CS FILE NO.

12-82

ROUTING

4

5

?i HA :

STO CEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

ile

TO

INFO

CITE DIR

24108

MEXI

and tres

FINAN

REP. MEXI 9607 6 1 90858)

PAY TICHBORN $993.30 EFFECTIVE PAY FERIOD ENDING 31 MAY 1964.

END GE MESSAGE

C/S CONMENT:

STATION REQUESTS AMOUNT FIELD SALARY TO PAY TICHBORS.

Tire

RELEASING

OFFICER

COORDINATING

cralst9s

Costaste For gules!?

P:0011a1in8 108

SECRET

REPRODUCTION: BY CINES IMAM THE LESUING UFFIGE IS EROHIBITED.

• C/CSTA3

LHIMESTICATINO.8

Copy is

+701-253203

---

## Page 83

ТИсЛішАМЙ міТИінИ ЛіК

Gi. WHOLLER

С/WH/2

Onell

19 49 1036

6869

23 MAR TET

MEXICO SANTIALO

inois:

DiRECTOR

wit &

CLASSIER MESSAGE

SECRET

CA

13H80 15 522

Fill 201

DERIGITEN

ROUTINE

10." PRIORITY MEXI

IRIS: • SAGO

PRIORITY

CITE OIR

23360

FUASPEN TICHBORN

in agent

REF: MEXI 9577 (1N 68422)

SAGO 7034 (IN 89145)

1. CONCUR TICHBORN MAKE ARRANGEMENTS PEN PARA 1 A RET.

2: TICHBORN IDENTLFYING HIMSELF AS HENRY SHOULD CONTAC'I

WALLACER. PARLETT AS SCON AS HE ARRIVES NEW YROK TO SET UP

BRIEFING IN WASH NOT LATEK THAN 28 MAY, TICHBORN COULD

LEAVE FOR SAGO ON 29 MAY. PARLETI'S OFFICE EXTENTION IS S86C.

maidenste

HOME NUMBER IS IN VIRGINIA SECTION OF WASH DIRECTORY..

3. FOR SAGO: IN ORDER IO AVUID OVERLAPS AND CROSSING OF

LINES IT LAPORTANT STICK TO CONCEPT TICHBORN'S UTILIZATION

PER REI B,LE., HE WILL BE STATION EYES AND EARS BUT NOT

BECOME INVOLVED IN ORGANIZING CAMPAIGN FOR INDEPENDENTS

OR OTHER ELEMENTS.

C/S GUAINT: "EFF PYBIT.

DESMOND FITZOERALO

C/WID

#:11A3I05.5011:60

END OF MESSAGE

Bil

5: 1

C/#H/2

ОрІАБі!

MRODUCION dY DIMER THAN THE iSSURE ONCE iS PROMISCO.

20-253203

---

## Page 84

353617

CLASSIFIED MESS..".

SECRET

---

File Filiham

201-253203-

1 3 -

41 P

--..

i51

то .

• DIRECTOP

FROM

• MEXICO CITY

ACTIONI

С/Н 5

INFO... - ADOP, - G/CA-2, C/Cl, C/CCS. 3, VR

22ls 641188 422

SECRET 2200572

• DIR INFO SAGO CITE MEXI 9577: 5.

REF DIR 22437 8

1. TICHBORN PREPARED LEAVE FOR SAGO NEEXEND 30-31 MAY, SOME

PROBLEMS INVOLVED BUT NOT INSURMOUNTABLE:

A. TICHSORN HAS NUVSER COMMITMENTS INVOLVING INTELLECTUAL MAGAZINE

TRYING TO GET OFF GROUND. MEXI EDITOR AND NUMEROUS OTHER MEXI

INTELLECTUALS ALREADY BEING PULLED INTO EFFORT. NUMBER PEOPLE

ALREADY BEING CONTACTED FOR ARTICLES, ETC. SO FAR GONE-IN THIS THAT

CONNOT BACK OUT OR DEFER LAUNCHING MAGAZINE WITHOUT KILLING TICHBORN.

VITH LEFTIST INTELLECTUAL AND OTHER CIRCLES HERE FOR GOOD. FURTHER..

AT THIS STAGE, VILL NEED BADLY TICHBORN GUIDANCE IN ORDER TO XEEP EFFORT

FROM GOING AWAY, THEREFORE, TICHBORN WILL HAVE TO MAINTAIN SOME KIND

OF INTERIM CONTACT WITH THIS. PROBABLY CAN BE HANDLED BY MAIL THRU HIS

VITE, PUT VERY POSSISLE HE VOULD NEED MANE ONE OR TWO VERY SHORT

TRIPS BACK TO REXI DURING SOME PART OF THIS PERIOD FOR THIS PURPOSE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FAOMIBITED

Copy No.

961-2532.03

---

## Page 85

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

AND SOME OF THIS PRIVATE ESINESS ACTIVITIES WHISH HE CANNOT JUST DROP

FOR PERIOD. THIS COULD BE ARRANGED AT TIME DEENDO BEST EY SAGO AND

TICKBORN CONSIDERING ALL FACTORS.

Bo TICHBORN COVER UP TO THIS POINT ON MUCH SHORTER TRIPS HAS BEEN

INTEREST IN LOS ANGLES MOVIE COMPANY AND SOME SHORT TERM MONJE

- INTEREST IN AREA TO WHICH- HE-VENT.-HOVEVER, DO NOT BELIEVE THIS

5. 4 too speedste

WOULD SATISFY TWO TO THREE MONTH STAY. TICHSORN SUGGESTED IDEN I

WHOSE INTERESTS HE ACTUALLY REPRESENTING AS LAWYER TRYING FIND

TESTORSE, ETC. THIS COULD INVOLVE SURVEY TRIP-TO LATIN AMERICA. ON.

IT'S BEHALF WITH LETTER FROM. IDEN 2 WHO REMAIN UNWITTING. THIS COULD

BE LAID ON BY TICHEORN AT TIME ME MAKES SCHEDULSO 27 MAY BUSINESS

TRIP TO NEW YORK. SINGE IDEN I LOCATED WASHINGIG, HE SEE IDEN 2 MINIMA

EASILY AT THAT TIME, GET LETTER, AND ALSO ANY INSTRUCTIONS OR

"BRIEFING MOS MIGHT DESIRE GIVE. THEN, KE COULD LEAVE FROM WASHINGTON

FOR SAGO ON WEEKEND.

¿. ADVISE.

-SECRET

C/S COMMENT:

*WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. WHETHER EDWARD G. TICHBORN

AVAILABLE 2-3 MONTH TDY SAGO BEGINNING ASAP.

- 2=51

• SECRET

---

## Page 86

1:327,

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

4y SECRET

• DIRECTOR

Tullama 201 fil.

FROM •

MEXICO CITY

6401-253283

ACTION, C/WH 5 .

INFO / A00P, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/CCS 3, VR

ROUTING

L1!

"ST

C

SECRET 220058Z

22 HA: 608188 420

DIR INFO SAGO CITE MEXI 9578

ESCEISITIZED

REF MEXI 9577(18 SS422)

IDEN 1- SOCIEDAD ANONIMA DE LUZ Y FUERZA ELECTRICA INTER-AMERICANA,

VASHINGTON, D.C. NEU COMPANY IN FORMATIVE STAGE.

IDEN 2= CARLOS MCCORMICK, PRESIDENT OF SALFEI.

SECRÊT

incanatica.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIEITED

Copy Na.

924.25330}

---

## Page 87

13 May 1964

MENORANDUM FOR:

Contract Pergonnel Divigion

SUBJECT: Edward G. TICHBORN

dicines

Plense extend for

a period of six (6) nontba:

-the present contract of Edward G._TICHBORN which

yao due to expire on 18 day 1984.

.2.8

"H. E, Brooks'"?

c/aw/support

314253207

---

## Page 88

FOURING

14!

!.5

20/283203

TO

: DIRECTOR

31

SRC.M

MExICO CITY

ACTION: WH 3

INFO.:

CA 2, CH/PEa, 64/0 4, C1/GA, VR

2071853203

-SECRET.-112013% -

DIN CITE MEXI 9305

TПОSBe0505

REF À DiP. 20023

75 20A,

:19848

С НИМ# 11562

!. AS INDICATED IN REF 5 IN MID-1962, IT WAS STATION UNDERSTANDING

UNTIL FAIRLY RECENTLY THAT TICHEURN'S PRIMARY MISSION HERE WAS TO BE

AVAILABLE FOR ELECTION AND OTHER POLITICAL ACTION ASSIGNHENTS IN

HEMISPHERS FOR, IF NEED BE," EXTENDED PERTODS OF TIME. TN SỞ NANY

WORDS; HE ASSIGNED HERE FOR LA BASE OPERAFIONS WITH MEXI HAVING

RIGHT USE HI. WITHIN THOSS LINITATIONS. DEVIOUSLY, MEXI COULD NOT

-SADDLS HIY WITH NORMAL AROUNGT OF PROUGETS REQUIRING ROUTINE-AND

ASSURED MANAGEMENI UNDER THESE CONDITIONS. HOWEVER, USEO HIM FOR HUNDER

ONE-SHOT AID TENPORARY ASSICNMENTS PLUS NTTIAGTING AND HANDLING

PROJECT LIFIZZ WHICH AS NUCH AS STATION FELT COULD SE DONE WITHOUT

TYING HIM ECHO ICO MUCH. REF C IN ALD 1953 APPARENTLY RECOCNIZED

THAT STATION WAS USING HIM SOMEVIAT MORE THAN GRIGINALLY CONTERPLATED.

PROJSCT LICOLIC NOTSO HE WOULD'NOT SE HADLING INTELLECTUAL YOURNAL

PROJECT. PROJECT LIFIZZ OR SOME REPLACERENT, PLUS REMAINING AVAIL

FOR SHCAT-CURATION POLITICAL ACTION ASSIGNHENTS IS CIHER AREAS.

SECRET

201-253203

7753°

2940-

Cozy No,

---

## Page 89

CLASSROD MESSAGE-

-IS DRENCOOCH PLELISHENG CENTER CIGARE

DED CAKICK PERFECTLY

ARRERAELE TO SENIOND, THEN APPEARE GATION GUS? TICHSORN WILL

HAVE SUPPICIENT TO KESP HIM SUSY, EELIEVE YAS. VILL AGRES WITH

TICKEDAY CONTACES AND PAST HISTORY FIRE WITH LEFTIST INTELLECIUAL

TYPES THIS IS FIELD MOST SUITAGLE FOR FI

AND NO POINT IN TRYING

-TO-PUCH STRATONT PROPAGANDA OR YCITH STUDENT OPREATIONS TO HINT

FE QUITE VALUABLE AND HAS UNIQUE CHASILITY THIS FIELD AND IS GIVEN

NURSES ASSIGNMENTS BY STATION WHICH GOOLO FIND DIFFICULT

_SATISFY WITH: ANYONE EUSE: FOR EXAIPLS, CULTIVATING CEDRIC BELFRAGE

AND GETTING HIS VIESPOINTS ON HIS CUBAY VISIT CE SOME DURATION.

E. SASED ON FORSCOING, STATION RECOMSENDS INSI PRESENT CONTRACT

ARRANGENENT RAIN IN EFFECT SINCE STATION MOVING HIM

INTO APPROPRIATE

ACTIVITIES AS OPPORTUNITY PREESENTS LISELE AND HE BEING KEPT SUSY

¡STATION HAS AVERAGE THREE MEETINGS WEEK WITH HIMS.

SECRET

C/5 COINENT: #CONCERNED HES REVIEV OF PROJECT LICELIC.

hudda rea

521.95

---

## Page 90

SECRET

FOURNG

141

131

TO

• ' DIRECTOR

FROiA 1 MEXICO CITY

ACTION, HA 8

ANO: ¡ CI/DA, EE 4, FEÚ, OS 2, VR

pist spen =

"Liver'

silenten

-1N14E

CLACKETT

• LIMONEN:

WISTER-

SECRET C801212

1-902

DIR CITE MEXI 2319

LEFLUTTER

TEARINE ON SIN78380

1:264414-21

LIM 0701931

7212012

FEF DIR 19398%

AGREE TEST THOSE NAMED REF EXCEPT LIMOTOR

19 WHO TESTED CCT 6S,

LINILE BHO CASE OFFICER FEELS UNDER NO OBLIGATION DE TESTED

AND HOULD DE ALIENATED.

2. STATION NỘT NOW IN CONTACT WITH LIKAYAK 20. HOPE ESTABLISH

CONTACT SOON TO GET FEEL OF LIKAYAN 2

ALTER ESO. ONCE JHIS DONE AGREE

LOFLUTTER DESIRABLES

3. VISH ADD DAPSTAL TO LISTEN

1. ADVISE TEAM ITINERARY.

SECRET

C/S OOMENT: •PEQUESTED CABLE WHETHER STA CONCURS LEFLUTTER CANDIDATES.

SECRET

REPSODUSTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBiTED

cavy ito.

266-28.850.3

---

## Page 91

HE LEA

C..

Bustus:chi

!!".:

WH3/METICO

5940

RAFF

5 3a5 196d

TO

: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

÷-.

?.v.

LSECHET

•: is fict

8HmSii 432

CONF:

W.Y8

INFO, CIlOA,

0s 2,

VR, FEG

jOUTINE

BRAI

INFO

19396

LOPLUTTER

BET: 4887 9984* (IN 73450)

*. 110B003 ECOSTA BIATION CONSIDER ICTLUTTER FOR FOLLOWING:

A. LIBQFZ-1 AND & BECAUSE OY STRESO SECURITY.

3. CAREKS AND COHTRACT AGARTS RED BAVE NEVER BEEN

VUTTERED: CLACKETT, VARPUR, MILETED, BENARES

TICHEORE

FERAPAB, LIBAYARS AND 30, SIM0702- 19:

C. ERISVE RITCH AND BINONCINEI WED PREVICUSLY

FLUTTEREO SEOULD MI RIFLUTTERED.

D.

L12A3

, LIJUNET, AND LUTILE BECAUSE OF

SECURITY CY SONITIVE 07S.

3, CARLS VISTURR STATION CONCURS ON ALL OR EO7 MANY SO

HUSODA CAN PLAN TRIP ALLO BUFFICIENT TIME FOR INTERVIES.

3. POL APPROTIO 10 LOTUIVER MERRACE TIE.

KID OF MEBBAGE

ny"n

HAPORA

AC/EM

CI/QATALLY

(drait)

002 1

30191

ПРОСАРІДВ

REPROOUETION BY ORNER THAN INE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROSIRTED.

case ita

511. 253203

---

## Page 92

Мет грім кла честисанн трішкі

its totes:

SECRET

ROUTING

151

61

TO . : DIRECTOR

FROM

ACTION,

MEXICO CITY

INFO

CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/DA, WH 7, VR

CHO MACAO GOT SLOTTO AT 2045 15 489 71 SPiNe

+SEC-R-E-T1522257.

PRIORITY DIR GUAT CITE MEXI 9020 (EASBY ACTING)

RET A GUẠT 3836(IN 62001)

15 А361*62286

3. D/P: 14155

NOT SUT GUAT)

• 1. TICHSORN PRESENT LY OUT OF TOWN, BUT RETURNS 17 APR. ME TPYING

GST REF & OFF GROUND, SO THISNOT BEST TIME FOR ABSENCE

HOWEVEr,

ASSUME TRIP WOULD BE FOR WEEX OP LESS AND IF THIS GENERAL

TIMING SATISFACIORY WITH ALL CONCERNED, CAN RELEASE SOON AS TRAVEL

"CAN BE ARRANGED. ADVISE. "

2. NO INDEX.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS-THOUGH INDICATOR DORICEUSED.

**REQUESTED TIME SCHEDULE. FOR TICHBORN.

201-253205

•SECRET

• REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN TME ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONISITED

Copy Na

----1909=1

---

## Page 93

CLASSINED MESSAGE

21

SECRET

POUTING

Miliat

Xico Cin

1/0%

#+0 201-253203

.. kara

SECRET

2017337

DIR INFO PALE CITE MEXI BUSE(SASAY ACTING)

IT DORIC GROPERA

20 Maộin 43935

REF DIR JESTI

I. LAST MEETING

TECHBORN (TY HAD WITH XIRAU(X) ABOUT FOUR

WEEKS AGO, BUT THEREAFTER HAS BEEN AVOIDING HIM SINCE CANNOT

GO SEYOND STATE EXPRESSION STRONG INTEREST UNTIL GO THRU SOME

DEVELOPHENT PROCESS. DISCUSSIONS BETWEEN T AND X NARROWED FACT

* FEELS NEEDS ASSURANCE CENTIGUITY AND SECURITY T" JOURNAL VENTURE

PREOR ABANDONINO OTMER-SIDE INCOME ROSSIBILITIES TO DEVITE TIME AND

SFFORT REQUIRED JOURNAL. THIS INFERS SALARY FOR X WHICH I THINKS

WILL NEED BE FIVE TO SIX MUNARED DOLLAR RANGE PER MONTH ONCE

PROJECT UNDERTAKEN I FEELS CAN GET & WORK WITH MIM ON PRELIMINARY

COS: STUDIES AND OTHER DATA FOR REIMBURSEMENT X'S TIME AND WHATEVER

OTHER COSTS INVOLVED HITHOUT NECESSITY ANY LONG-TERM COMMITMENT.

TESTIMATES THIS TAXE AT LEAST TUO WEEKS AT TOTAL COST 570UB--

SUOSO? THIS MUST BE DONE TO GET ENOUGH PRELIMINARY DETAIL FOR

PROJECT SUSMISSION.

?. IN AUDITION, THO OTHER PRELIMINARIES SHOULD SE UNDERTAKEN

SOONEST:

A INITIATE ACTION FOR T'S MEXICAN HONKING PAPERS UNICH SECURED

71513103

13t7

SECRET

BEPICOLCTIDN ET CINEE THAN THE ISSUINO DITICE IS PROMINITEO

Copy inn

---

## Page 94

"ETED MESSAGE

SECRET

"P: GIATE MECHANISH TO BE SET UP. THIS TAMES ABOUT MONTH IF NO

MITCHES AND COST ESTIMATED SOO U.S. IN "GRATUITIES" FOR VARIOUS

MEXICAN OFFICIALS INCLUDING INCIDENTAL TAX AND LEGAL FEES.

.;:Bon: START. CORPORATION PAPERS. PLAN IS FOR I HAVE LAU FIRM

MANDLE INCORFORATIOY IN FIRM'S NAME FOR SILENT CLIENT UNICH UNDERSTANU

IS COMMON PRACTICE NERE. STOCK CERTIFICATES TO BE BEARER TYPE AND

TO BE HELD. DY T.FOR, ASSURED CONTROL.

ESTIMATE WILL REQUIRE AT LEAST MONTH

IF NO SNÄGS AND COST STOOGUSO INCLUDING REQUIRED

GRATUITIES. CORPORATE CAPITAL REQUIRED IS 54, 000 US. 2 WHICH MUST

SE OF DEPOSIT WITH BANK FOR MEXI AUTHORITIES

VERIFICATION AT TIME INCORPORATION BUT MAY BE SPENT ANYWAY DESIRED

AFTER, INCORPORATION OR LE PROJECT DOES NOT SO THROUGH MAY BE WITHDRAN

FROM BANK AND RETURNED RUBARK. T'S STORY TO LAW FIKM WILL BE ME

STARTING CORPORATIGN AS FLYER IN CULTURAL FIELD NOT ONLY SINCE

FILLS IMPORTANT VOID, BUT BECAUSE ME HOPES LATER ATTRACT BIG

FOUNDATION MONEYCI.E., FORD OR ROCKEFELLER) AND, THEN, IN SOME

SALARIED CAPACITY I HILL GET CUT PROCEEDS,

THIS EMINENTLY REASONABlE

HERE®

3.

BASED FOREGOING, REQUIRE AUTHORITY USE $2, 080&U.S.>

DITO FUNDS TO UNDERTAXE DEVELOPMENTAL ACTION IN ORDER GET X WORX

ON HACSPECTUS, POSSIBLE

ASSISYANTS, CONTRIBUTORS, EICE AND OTHER

FACETS. $4020 CORPORATE CAPITAL DEPOSIT WILL BE REGUIRED LATER

SRiEN COTPORATION FORMATION NEAR FINAL STAGE.. IF DESIRE TO TAXE

SUCCESSIVE STEPS, THEN ONLY 5700. REQUIRED BUT MUST RECOGNIZE THIS

WILL SPAN OUT CONSIDERABLY TIME OF STARTING ACTIVITY.

SECRET

C/S COIMENT: PES ARTICUS T¡GISON MORE OUT DETAILS JOURNAL.

SECRET

---

## Page 95

CLASSIELD NASAC E

13.....

WH/3/lexico

5940

--8. March-64-

70

MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

0Nd My L.

R.

--

68a861 Zi 532

ISIS CEN

ROUTINE

NEXT

"INtO:

CITE DIR

06038

DESH&WIIZED

B&F:

A.

DIR 03351

B.

HKXT 8448 €

1. HDQS HAS BEEN ADVISED CONFIDANTIALLY THAT TICHBORN NO

LONGER UNDER CONSIDERATION FOR RIP APPOINTENT.

NO REASON GIVEN.

2.

TICHBORN SHOULD NOT REPEAT NOT BE ADVISED OF THIS INCIDENT.

3. IT ASSUMED TICHBORN NOW REMAIN IN PLACE. REPLY TO

REF B BY SEPARATE MESSAGE.

END OF MESSAGE

SPABST/DD/P "Cordon Mason

(phono)

* IN 30532

C. RING

Brill an

WHITTEN

C/WH/3

COORDINATING

MR ORICERS

630UP 1

AUTNERTICATIND

OFFICER

SECRET

REPADOUCTION BY OTHER THAN ME ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIDITED.

Copy No.

+761-1253203

---

## Page 96

422.1 1

GLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

•70

• ПІДЕСТОР.

'FROM

•MEXICO.GiTY

ACTON, WHY

INFO •des?,

151. 753103

•..1.

12l2G130665

SECRET 022309Z

DIR CITE MEXI 543911

1. EDUARD G. TICHDORN ON EMERGENCY LEAVE TO HANDLE UNEXPECTED

LITIOATION CASE IN CALIP, HE DEPARTED MEXT OU 2 MAR AND EXPECTS

RETURN 6 MAR. HE CAN DE REAGHED THRU IDEN.

2. NO INDEX.

SECRET

201-253203

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHEN THAN THE ISSUING GIFICE IS PRCHIBITED

Capy No

---

## Page 97

74-00010

adiutrio

ins: Iel0

i DIRECTOR

ACTION, LUMI

SSO RET 0223038.

121A611N30665

REP NEXT 8433 (14/30666)

IDENG ALLEN KAUFYAN, ATTONEY

LEVERLY MILLS, CALLS.

iniandta..

001.253203

CHou

SECRET

REPRODUCTION DY OTNER IMAM TIE IGUINO OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

•ІІ СВО! ВІТРАВТИВ САНТ:

Copy No.

---

## Page 98

14-00000

SECRET

ROUTINO

10

FROM

ACTION.

INFO

• CURECTOR

• MEXICO CiTY

ADOP, D/OP, DOS, VR

SECRET 268053Z

PRIORITY DIR CITE MEXI 8384

REF DIR 03358P

DESENSATIZEU

25 FLoGm26519

(CS COMMENT: " REQUESTED @INION TICHBORN.)

NO NITE ACTION

FOLLOWING IS SUMMARY OPTION OS TICHSURV, FROM OFFICERS. WHO

HAVE DSALT WITH HIMS EXCELLENT CHARACTER AND COMPLETE LOYALIY TO

ODYONE, ALTHOUSH AT STATION REQUEST TICHBORN HAS DEALT IN MEXI WITH

PERSONS OF FAR LEFT, THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INDICATION THAT MIS

.. POLITICAL INCLINATIONS ARS ANYTHING BUT COMPLETELY PRO-POPRIME. THERE

IS NO RUSSTION ABOUT HIS ABILITY ÄT ANY CHORE INTERESTING ENOUGH TO

STIMULATE MIM. ME IS EXTREMELY LUCID, AND HIS MIND CAN ONLY SE

DESCRIBED AS BRILLIANT. HE HAS AN EVEN, PLACID TEMPERAMENT. HIS

JUDGMENT ADPEARS TO SE SOUND & ALTHOUGH IN MEXT NIS ASSIGNMENTS HAVE T

USUALLY BEEN OF THE TYPE IN WHICH ME FOLLOWED STATION GUIDANCE).

HE IS NOT SOOD AT DETAIL, SUCH AS REPORTINS AND ACCOUNTING. IN ESSENCE:

HE IS A SHARO OPERATOR, WHO COULD PSOBABLY DO WELL IN POSITION OF

IMPORTANCE.

2. STATION NOT IN POSITION TO COMMENT ON MIS LEGAL ABILITY, HIS

LOCAL ACTIVITY FALLS IN THE PUBLIC SLATIONS CATEGORY & AS A PAPRINS

CITIZEN HE NOT ALLOWED PRACTICE MEXIS.

"SECRET

heit forn

COON

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy Na

211-2572033

---

## Page 99

i!:.

JOIN M. NU

5613

24 FAGRUARY 1951,

MECCO CITY

DiRiCiOs

SECABI

24FC061 28 3!2

ROUTINE

NO: APOR, IPS, C/Of, in

PRIORITY MENI

PETaSTIZED

03357

ODYONE CONSIDERING PIRAERG.

TOMORLTON INURIANT APPOINT IN LEGAL

FIELD.

ODENVY KNOWS HE WORKS FOR JUBAR AID NE-NUST CIVS. AUTHORIALTY! OPINION

Ù US CARACER, ABILITY, TAMPERANGT, AND JUIGEMAT, WITHOUT AVISIEG

TICHEORN, REQUEST IU CARLE DAIA AND OPINIONS OF YOURSELE AND OPFICERS WHO

HAVE CALE NITE RIES. WE LAVE INGEST OPENION OF MEN.

ED OF MESSAGE

C. tine

KING

C/al

BERRARING CAFICER

REFRODUCTCH EY UT

CRAsS air.

THE

WHAMIEN

c/wa 3

AUTHENTICATINE

OFFICER

Cop; No.

208-253203

---

## Page 100

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ELS SECRET

AOURNE

i TO

I DIRECTOR

FROM , MEXICO CITY

ACTION, CAN 5

INFO, ADOP, C/CI, VR

(WH COPY SLOTTED AT: 2105, 3 FEB 64 00)

• it GimeL1629

SEÖRET 84J336Z

PRIORITY DIR INSO PRIORITY GUAT CITE MEXI S061

REGAIN

REF DIR 98833*

I. TICHBORN CONTACTED ESGAIN-7 8Y TELEPHONE AT 1708 LOCAL A

3 FEBE WILL. MEET AT 1730 LOCAL 3 FEB.

20 AWAIT FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT:

WILL FOLLOW.

*RE PLS CABLE REPORT ON INITIAL CONTACT AND INSTRUCTIONS

C2 1222/2832 15

201-253703

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS. PROMIBITED

Copy Na.

---

## Page 101

11 4-00000

EL ASSISED MESSAGE

BC

R

B.T

C/Mi/5

501'3

- 3.883.196я :

гін1!

T-3

MAGICO CITY, GUATERALA CITY

1ROM:

DIRECTOR

c/mll 5

NIO: ADDP, C/CI, VR

-INDIATE NEXI

INFO

GUAT

GESENSFUZED

RSGAIN

3FEB.50

18182

DEFENG CEN

FOURNE

OPSRATIONAL

TARDIATE

CITE DIR

98833

-RArS: A.*DIR-976909

B..

DIE 978913€

1. BOGAIN Y FROND GALEOND MORNING 3 FRU FROM NEXICO CITY

AND CAVE REY ADDESS: MARIANO ESCOBRO ES RECORDO 179, APART-

HANT 203, THURPHONE 15 CAO EXTRASION 203.

FIg WAYS TICOOSH

MASS CONTACT UNDE ALIAS ASAP. IRON

2.

XE TICHBOR NOT AVAILASLE, PLS HAVE ENSINGER MAXE

TELEPHONE CONTACT ASAP.

FIS CABLE REPORT O

INITIAL, CONTACT

AND IRETRUCTIONE WILL POLLOT.

HE COLORATS

*Iden açaying with wife at Continental Hilton.

Expogie coatact.an

r1.t4716? 1221

**Gives truo nasa ot Ison.

FrigAdren

REPROQUCIIAN BI

TBITTEN

C/w3/3

#IFI::8

tattri lia

3ul-2i3÷03

-t.5"

---

## Page 102

g."

C

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

C/25/3

3A1: :

L) NO INDEX

L FREI CS FILE NE 201=533203

• 10

•MEXTDO WUY

INTO: GUATENALA CITY

CCNF :

INFO :

CI, CI/JPS, CI/CA, VR

TO

DORNIAES ANA

INFO ROUTINE GUAT

XIC

7984

zol

I.

CECUR USE SICHDORE UNDER ALLIS. MARE COTTACT AT ONCE.

Га БЕ 3E HR99A05

BU JAN DU

15762

SIG GEN

DEFERASS-

ROURNE

JETTE DIR

98045

R

OS CONVENT: *IN 08477.

0

P

ROUTING

RID/AN

RIDIPS

RINFT

¡INITIAL

P

13,595

3.

bX/3/CA':

сАмісі"

43/3/105XI)

BiR

Hoard

C/Ni, 3

BALSASISE CITICIE

SBORBT

thetahin 1H044

+8 088-88-08899

AUTOTNTICATING

*., 1389a

REPRODUCTION SY

RI COPY

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING DEFICE IF ESPUSITED

Copy ia

109!

991-253303

the pira, por..

---

## Page 103

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

→ SECRET

ROUTING

TO

• DIRECTOR

FROM

• • MEXICO CITY

ACTION,

6H 8 (TEMPO FOR WH SLOTTED AT 1900-29 JAN 64)

INFO

C1, CI/Ops, CI/OA, VR

29 JA STINO 8477

SECRET 2921297

PRIGRITY DIR INFO PRIJRITY GUAT CITE MEXI 7984

- REF. DIR 97690}

FREFER NOT USE ETSINGER ON ESGAIN 7 OR OTHER OP UNTIL

STA AND HQ BOTH SATISFIED SECURITY ASPECTS.

SUGGEST USE TICHBORN

TO CONTACI INITIALLY AND IF DESIRED, PATAKER CAN TAXE OVER ON

NIS ARRIVAL. ON RECEIPT REPLY WILL MAKE CONTACT.

SECRET

*C/S COMMENT, AREA CONTACT _1DEN, HGGH 3547:

Fill Til hour 201

SECRET

ASPRODUCTON BY OTHER TILAN TILE ISSUING OIFICE IS FROMISTED

270: 253203

70575

227105

Copy Ha.!

---

## Page 104

CRIO? Of StAtIOn, BOXlea C18y

CH103, VH DIVLa100

RUSOLE/ Operational, statua ol profests on priacipal Agallo:

AC810a: 18 Statod Bolo

REPS:

BENE 11534

в.

404-21914

D.

DIR--33033

DIN •61788

Б.

MaxT-3613

Ph1R-88204 Peso

2a28-42041

Roy that Dougise Froapard's conversion las boon approved,

•Kuadquartors noquenta shas the sisalon sucni8 a Projoct sutlico for

Als suppose.

Roadquartara 1a aura thas tho Station ind draised

anis projaes but man boldies de undia paRApaN's soy atatus bocano

13tat10n. 14-0130 rogu0510d-80-aubait a-projece ou Bavard o.

PICTORY, a3 For TOPOraNCeS D and F.

In reply to rolarened s,

TICHUN is coasidared a station Moxico City agont which means that

als aalary ahould so longor da chaigod to supoplar lo.

рягтар S-Of Polorenoe Go that with the arrival Of SADAMANIS 18524

agas possibly drop enig agent. In the ereat station deciceo to

COstiato vaiDa LIS20MY-1, pleaso subalt an assadeas to LIPLu

ProjoGe oF a separate suypor? project lor LIsboltol.

OlIver Q. CALBOSTO

Diatribollea:

CAL - CO3, ReTICO CHEy

201-17595

ii1-39:300s 100-3183-13

FULS- 12081

0012133031

: 2

RoveaDo? 1303

78-19RА2

---

## Page 105

21

D0tobor 1989

SUBJECT

BEF BRANCES

537-D0/ S

Report of And1s of Profoot dDOPLAa/10

I Apr1l. 1081 • 31 Haron 1963

A.

Monorandun for Chlof,

asojoot as above, iron Chief, Audis 36a16

dated 28 August 1903

B.

Heworenden for couptrollor, aubjoof:

alloodquarters Proatnont of Advancos

Panj00d0 Funded Through PrOjoCta INfGLAR/ 1D

and JHPOPLAN/12", iros ChloR, AudlE StaSR,

1.

Tho pollening la Mil Divinion's reply to paragrapa

.

THE FOILAR 10-AUR 09886211O PLan.

5d11

De reviaed to incorporato tho

roconnendationa sade in subjeer ropori.

Investigation by Bl! Divlalon doteralnos

Bhat the salary of tabard G. PICTROLS bas

been

charged lagroperly to UNPOPLAi/ 10.

200

projoos la boing intelated againat

Malob TIMBer's salary ails lo charged.

Appropriate Doclaratlong oi truod bill Do

-Untreroisy.disy.baok.acoound..

11554

---

## Page 106

d.

kal Diviolon la tastiatlag aotion so

alogo sha projeot's secount at tho

Y8568 Natlonal Dani.

the corsoad Adainiatraßire Plan, rolerred lo la

paragraph la abore, will inolude changes Thio! srilees she

reoossondationa mado In relerende U.

(SICHED). I7. E. BROOKS

Chief, Ell Divda1en

Distribution;

05 15- 4

1 - Addreasee oe

SSA-DD/$

Fb/proprietary Accounts Section

111/3 - riasico

1 - WII/BE

---

## Page 107

17-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAG

2.01

201 - 253203) -

ROUTING

TO

: DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 8

INFO : PG 2, CA 2, C1/OA, RE 2

SECRET 170218Z

DIR CITÉ MEXI: 5813

REF DIR 61788

REQUESTED PROJECT RENEW US E3 IN 0 1 392

REQUESTS FOR LICHEV, LICOAX, LiLISPC, LILIS? X, LINOLE,

LITAINT.

ALSO REGUESTED STA FORWARD NEW PROJECT OUTLINES

TO COVER TICHBORN AND RIKON

KUWOLF

1. HMMA-21914 POUCHED 9 AUG IS GENERAL STATION COMMENT ON XUVOLE

RENEWALS. AS RÉFERENCE INDICATES DISPATCHES POUCHED S AUGUST NOT

RECEIVED MEXI KUWOLF DESK AS OF 16 AUG SUGGEST VALUE OSTAINING HMMA-21914

ASAP.

2. STATION UNAWARE APPARENTLY SIGNIFICANT LAG BETVEEN ARRIVAL

DISPATCHES HOS AND DELIVERY TO DESK. MÜMA-21864, ACCORDING TO-REF;

HAD NOT HIT DESK AS OF 16 AUGUST YET SHOULD HAVE BEEN RECEIVED. HOS

8 AUG. PLEASE ADVISE IF THIS IS NORMAL DELAY. IF SO CERTAIN MATTERS

NOW TREATED DISPATCHES WILL OF NECESSITY BE SUBJECT SABLE TRAFFIC.

3. REF PARA TWO REF. TICHBORN

I RECRUITED AND BEING PAID FROM NOS.

STATION HAS AVOIDED UTILIZATION TICHBORN IN PROJECTS SO TIME CONSUMING

AS TO PROHIBIT TRAVEL, AS IT WAS UNDERSTOOD HE WAS TO BE KEPT IN

READY STATUS FOR INTERNATIONAL ASSIGNMENT. SHOULD THIS UNDERSTANDING

BS RETAINED NEV, PROJECT FOR TICHBORN, OR CAN MEXI NOW CONSIDER MIM

AS PRIMARILY MEXI AGENT?

SECRET

744.283÷03

GROUP'!

EXCLUDLO FROM AUTOMATIC DUTIO

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

Copy Na.

---

## Page 108

SECRET

•18 June 1963

HEYORANDUM FOR:

Chlas, Contract Personnal Division

SUBJECT!

Edward G. TICHBORN (p), Amendment

of contracts.

It le requested thet the contract, as mended for.-

Edsard G. TICHBORN;

Contract Agent, be further anended effac-

tivo 1 June 1963 as folles:

ina. Increase baale compensation from"$u,000

to $9,000 рет аалим.

Provide addltional compensation for quar

ters procurement at the rate of $3,000 per annus

for self and dependents.

Extend the parlod of the contract for an

additional year.

All orner provisions of tha contract remain

in effect.

The increase in compansation ay recoisaended by. tha

Merico Cliy Station. La basad

on the

Canner or TICHboRN's par

formance and the increased amount of tina whieh he devotas

FE-2R

*to Agency requiraments.

3.

The kil Division concurs with the Station recommenda-

210n.

TICHBORN has becoue an increasingly valuable and pro-

dictlve covert asset.

Биgi7 cove:

W. E. BROOKS

==== Chlef,-Wl Support.

Endudes wes .:13...

26/ 2531:3

---

## Page 109

30:170:1'55÷

^720 C1N

hobd dts

SOTESTIRE

isi@briseddasm

--r.1

172106

'idlii ne

NEgo do anudoi7 da dtia

Mouiolo dacetieo dei di asaclacê cavo bo nedenoto duo Cailinelo la

HOnOE LEA LaRdOU CCGLLERACCE SV Aonhnl7 1034-20010n

fiintice ticitt

ENTIS3nCS TUA1E06 Aomi a80aão M7150ho Heciigld UsnovOdec!

1-000017 lora d00 Diho Giaeo Ero Bolbaho St deüchöll d0s Holluso

• 07 Gaailonho Ca nahcadeo dãd Gh Gaanld dSVh do :1dg °&

•nGloiobo haig dula dộo mio àn diad daEnCa OSdot AAViads Uve

ge dtre CNaroe-060e 3e TauRe e sabelo cufeor doas u ARGrSES

S0 canga3g Ua kaho mage Bo ne Cccenco Cua SeIn Lenl LaVa

HN9Y62TE

T0N11aVaS0 auoagd dru cinavato darvoes Gbasoddloid En dgoldau sSvo

CTUL PAYA IS MIlESNd dOGtaSG dlO SOisIfO 2eLad NOmNTi of e g i ty eid

CCA МОГ E

MNINI 0371SI3STA

1eg:9Xi

bà lẠS S1IO lOta LURo vöNl dlu

ccneia1ädas.

P:: Ea E t/s /01/10/3 915/9 "GoGy : D.'Il

$ 18/3 N9110N

---

## Page 110

A ASSISTED MESSAGE

1L

SECRET

ACTION:

INFO

OP 2, S/C 2

SECRET 2123252

iN9J011

DIR CITE MEXI 167&

22 MAY 1963

REF. HMMY-11562

IN 43671

!: STATION AGREÉS HQS EVALUATION TICKBORN AND CONCURS SALARY INCREASE

AND HOUSING ALLOWANCE AMENDMENT: - ALSO AGREE INSURANCE RIGHTS

SHOULD

BE. INCLUDED CONTRACT.

2... BELIEVE RAISE, SHOULD BE $1,000 PER ANNUM WITH HOUSING AT

$3, 030, WHICH TOTAL MEETS TICHBORN•S OWN REQUEST. THESE FIGURES

PROPOSED TO TICKBORN (WITHOUT COMMITMENT) 21 MAY AND ACCEPTABLES

TO HIK.

SECRET

Tie to

201.253203

SECRET

EXCLUDED FROM

FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

---

## Page 111

10

DISPATCH

1 Chlos of station, hardco city

S SC RE ERYRALA

PARISSING

ACIKM

MUNTO REACINTO

CAl QUENTS

NATURE: DO NO!!

VITRECT

• Ohios, bi Diviaton

SUBJECT

s SUDIE/Bduard O. SICHBORN (ps)

ACIAN REQUIRED, RUERLMILO

ACT, Cable oronto an Contrast radural and ene

1. lih1le TICHBORH was at Resdquartere 1n April, ba sald he noodod

$l,000 per joar moro than the $8,000 plus expenses he receitas under bie

prosent contrast.

Ho cited the higi cost af life trisurvice he must take

out for all his air flights, since he does not receive LUBARI righta of

surritorship.ra a Contract Ageat.

He also nentioned the rising cost of

Living in Madoo,

and the Increased smount of time he is sperding on behalf

•I KUBARK, at the exponse of hli cover. He nald that he inanadal olturtio

ull Moon care hiu to spand more tina on bls les preotios, liaiting blo

@va1lab1?1ty-t0 fUBARi.

Headquarters thinks highly of TiCaBoRt, and ss jogard him as

an excallant long time asset who night poasibly be converted to carper

agent in tho raturo, when his legal practice 1a less Iucrative, or beau/sc

chooses to nork almost fall time. for. KUBARI.

3. Meamhlle, Headquarters ballovos: that the falnast arrangemest

fOr SUBARE and for TICHSORN, Hould be to kerp his in contraot

status,

radoing his salary. This sould ensure KUBARls contimes utilisation

of his valuablo servoes, tould assura the maintenance ai a strong cover,

and at the cane time would give TIChaRi the Incentiva to vard hera at

hia cover and would paralt him to realise the raturn fres his cover.

efforts.

'It PICHBORN were couverted io farcer Agent atatus run, thera

could bo almoat, 1l nut total affeet or his cover 1000s0.

(continued)

Diatributions

022 - COs, Nestco Gity

1 • RI

I - Chrono

ОСТЕ ГУРЕД

DATE DISFATCHED

13 MAJ

2&AH3% SO NO MAMBER

MEAPOLASTERS FILE NUMBER

GLASUIRICATION

202-25320}

117:4

OFTICER

A ORMNATIS

MIEST

NH/3/Mex1co/Bustus1dd

OOORDINATING

DIT.

55,0

DATE

I in but's

wits

TRistEN

FLE 45197

NEEDENTES

55

reig

DISPATCH

---

## Page 112

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

88.0 88 & INBAI

H0244-11562

Headquartors eagerald that when fIchoallls vontrast la ronased

as of I0 May. 196s for tuo Jaero, 1t bo saurdod to inorodes nia salary by

81,000 por year, end that additional cenpansetion of 83,500 per yaar be

Inaledod for housine. The stole mount vould bo tarablo,

A alausa oss

aloo be ended to the contract arthorising TICHBOS to epply sor tho spora?

Ilfo and hospitallaation tamranos giren Contrsst Agonto.

5. Ploade disionas tho proposal 1a paragraph l and/55 my station

1doan with TIChBoli, bust avoid maiding my comaltunts. Binos the prosent

contract prodrus on 19 May, It 10 roguessed that the station gable 1t0 vlesa

BID

09 DISPATCH

PARE NO

100"530

98C BS TRYBAT

CarTA ED

---

## Page 113

TA* 13

it is

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

PRiOR TO FILING

INSIHUCTIONS

1.

Hip an est. Rio hase 299.36010k

and forsaii. to

?.

Destroy front cover sheet, unless it

reconds

significant action liken or

cossents requiring preservation.

FROM:

TO ACTION BRANCI

If file no:

and tilln shown aro not

propor, insert.propor filo no, bolou

and. romard. docusent to RID/AN.

ROPIA FILE NO.

RIDI

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION ' ON GACK. IE APPROPRIATE

=20/AN # 9

DATE

TO

с/рін/3

MEXI

Trees

→ WH// Ven

1691

NO.

ins

FC

copy detachid

WH/3/Mrx

... Busten

12.

13.

i 50452a03

17.

RID/FI

TRiCE

REDiEST

DAIR MICROPUNED

7 12

1p350-/700g 183/-253203

MAHA

21148

test

SECRET

---

## Page 114

DISPATCH

QLASSUNCATRT

SECRET

I-a0).

INTa

PROCESSNG

MATRIE NES NOT DINES

PRIT QUALIND

KIATUIAHTIMS NASR

CAN ATE INHAG

ARSINACI

ACCOM

Culef of Stallon, Caricas

chles or station, Mexico City

SUBJECT

Prichbor Report on Caracas Travel

ACTION REQUIRED. RU CRENCES

Reference: HM-11/15, 22 March 1963 50-184-1

I: Station Mexico regrets that, to date, It has been unable

to obtain the Reference report from Tichborn. As readquarters 1s avare,

Tichborn, hile brilliant and articulate, is not always dependable,

especially when it comes to routine taske. It Is true, however, that

Tichbom has been extrenoly busy traveling for KUBARK, and 1s at the moment

on another of his frequent tripa.

In any event, Tichbom has promieed to provide the report aa

soon as he returns from his present trip.

It will be forwarded when received

from him.

RECLASSIFIED.

RI/ AN

RI/MIS

Hillard (Custe

RI/F1les

2

WED

"Cáract.

X168

§CHOSS RUERENCE TO

CS COPY •

3E CRET

201-253203

5a-124-0

DATE TIPED

DATE DISPATOED

1/24/63

ORSPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

ENNA - 21148

MADPUNA: TRS FUL ARANUIE

50-226-0/21

---

## Page 115

CLASSIFILO MESSIGE

ACTIO.1:

INFO

TH &

CI, C/OPS, CCS 2, FI, S/6 2

TiCHBORIVE

EE CRE I 0422342.

MEXI INTO DIR CITE BUEN 9200

§ APR 1963

IN| 1567

1. TICKBORNE RETURNING EVENING S APRIL. PLEASE ADVISE WIFE.

ALSO PAS REITERATE OUR APPRECIATE MIS EPTORTS NGRE AND AT SAME

TIME REMIND HIM THAT HE AGREED POUCH US A FULL REPORT HIS BUEN VISIT

20 FOR DIRS TICHBORNE ABLE DEVELOP IN SHORT TIME AVAILABLE

GO TEENIE TO LOTS SITUATION THROUGH CONTACTS DEVELOPED ON MIS

GIN NITIATIVE PLUS CENFERNECES WITH KEY STATION PERSONNEL; INCLUDINA

REUTLINGER AND BUCCHERIO

INTERVIEWED

TOO PERSONS FRON NEVE

VENDORS TO SENIOR BUSINESS LEADERS. UNABLE MAXE CONTAOT WITH

BICENTER SSO INDICATED THAT DUE PRISENT MILITARY CRISIS HIG EVERY

MOVE COVERED BY NEUSTEN, PHUP ME PREFARED NOT FEE TICHBORNED

SECRET

S/S NOTET •PORTION GARBLED-BEING SUCD.

201253103

CAOUP !

Honk

EXCLUOLO PRON AUTOMATIC DONO

dali!s

GRAD INS AND DECLASSIFICATION.

REPROQUCTION BE DIFER THEN TISUTTSE OFFICE IS PACHIBITIO.

---

## Page 116

SEGRET

20 натов 1903

ENTANUR FOR Chloß, Contradt Personial Divaton

SUBJECTS

Echard 0, TICHBORN (p), Cortraot Asenduent

It 18 requested that the cortsact for Sdrard O. TICHBORN,

contract Agent, be amended to delete the ourrent paragraph 2.

Travel and Operational Expenses and Inserts

Travel and Operationsl Expenses.

You a1ll' be

advanced or reimburaed funds on an actual, reasonablo

and nestay expone beste to there timente

by you in connection with such trarel oribay te directed

or authorised by the loverment and while on temporasy

duty away fron your pereinent post of asBlarment..

In

adultion, you will be advanced or roleburged rune cor

Tosssary oporational expenses aa specificalli approved

by the covernient. Payrent and ascounting, for all

experses knourred heraunder will be in subetantial con

formance mith applioable Govermont regularlons.

The effectiva dato of the asendent abould bo as of tro effectivo

asto of the contract, 19 May 1961.

The abore request lo corractiva in natara as it was not

Intended to change the travel expense provision which had boan in

effect during his previoua contract.

11. E. S5X085

Chief,

5H Support.

SEGRET

M:7.1 219

: reta:: 8.1029

701-25320.3

---

## Page 117

retren

19 March 1963

Paul 0:

Tichborns original contract provided for travel on an actual

expense basts.

This was when he was working on a dally or job

rate

basis:

This contract was terminated and a new contract was written

lieu of subsistence-."

None of Tichtorn's travel claims have been processed since the

new

contract has been effective.

All travel claims submitted by

hia, starting in June 1961 have been sübmitted on an actual expense

basis.

Finance takes the view that the "This nay include per diem---"

88

restricting Tichborn to per diem only plus of course operational

expenses.

Processing Tichborns old accounts on this basis would.

require hin to refund several hundred dollars.

An amendent to the contract would take care of these old

accounts as submitted.

Options:

1.

3:

Get refund from Tichborn

Armend contract to cover actual expenses to present

date.

Armend contract to cover actual expenses past and

future.

What are your wishes?

currie

Quand any actin that with

reque refined — their wah ant a on?

ith WH/3tF - silent not stifle o

Fistunal, funtiliati Guerent.

14.63

stel 4532-033

---

## Page 118

14-00000

3.

LotTon

ACTION: C/WH S

INFO

: ADDP, C/CA 2, =/CI, S/C 2-

SECRET. 112135Z

MEXI INION

*CITE BUEN 9047.

RASAKCATIZED

1.1 MAR 1963.

IIN83870

REF! MEXI 3703

82504)

1. FEEL TOY CAN BE LIMITED TEN WORKING DAYS. PLEASE

ADVISE ETA AND TRUE NAME TICHBORN,

2.

CONTACT PLANS. TICHBORN AS MR. VILLIAMS) SHOULD CALL

46-3248 DURING OFFICE HOURS AND ASK FOR KEN TO ARRANGE LUNCHEON.

MEETING SAME DAY AT NOGARO HOTEL, J.À. ROCA 562. WILL BE MET IN

LOBBY WHERE HE SHOULD BE SEATED AND READING "TIME" MAGAZINE..

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *SUBJ AVAILABLE MID-MARCH.

201-253203 K

006 253743

SERIET

REPACRUCTION BY OTRER TRAN IS5 IRE OFFICE 1S PROHIBITEO.

---

## Page 119

14-00000

SECRS?

1855-4-1:000

TO

INTO

57101; 19D

LISTENIS A NO

63-43

FROM

Cuter er stalica, Sen Salvador

04M.

9 Parch 1963

RUNECT

RE: "135 - IGEO Y UNE

Edward O. TICHECRY (F)

MARKEY FOR DEONG

DaI

NO INDEEVO ESOURE

ANTON RECUTED

INDEXING CAN BE NOGEO

ses paragraço 30

BY QUAUFED HO CESX ONLY

BSSA-1606

1.

Referenced digratch nao discussed unthiho Arbasasdor co. l Merch.

He sald that In talking idth Oilver 0. CALBOND and othera in Headquartars

In early lI? as well as with chies, uyfous support, he had expressed

great appreciaison for the assistence rondered by idward a. TIerBeRs.

Ho seld that be swill felt that a alallar survey, nade a year at so alter

too firal one, would de nost helpral la assessing sleificant chages 10

te cutloot of the various segianis of Salvadoran coclety. Alse discussed

uns the rossible utilily of en early april 1962 survey en this losues and

personels tiss as lary rigit develop during the forthcoatng elections,

pranently schachlad for 29 April lIt?. Hoverer, the labassador concladed

that bases, of course, avare that there ara other pelority pooda for

walle the Stazion would valcome another vialt by subject, it does

not appear leat tar need for. a general survay is so pressiog as 1t vas a

year ago. It 18 doubled that baste conditions bare changed greatly, ani

the changea stich hate taken placo bars been fairly well cousred in COACID

reporting. tilta regard lo the pra election estinato; sentionad abova,

1t shoald bo notod that there are no other partios to dato in the feld

escapt the poveranent party, the Farlido Coccillacion Nacional (FC:), end

only the fal das this far put forward candidates for fresidant and tice

President. Unlosa postronod, tha cloang dato for announcementa 1s 12 March.

In other words, at the notent it spyears that the rat result of the

overholzing rictory of tas Ful lu the electione of list Lecenber hes

sido the forthconing alections a more formality.

•3.

The Station sill appreciate early advice of & second visit. by

TICHBORE, IS Mla schodalo peralto.

STEPHSH R. KARHATT

7 March 192

Dist51ba:100:

3-HRD

2.ax1co C1LY

10/

1.0+4

20. 15023

3:3

12.H3T

---

## Page 120

14-00000

King tire

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

+.

SECRET

DATE

:27 FLe 63

; TO

: DIRECTOR

FROM : BUENOS AIRES

METION: C/7.5

INFO: ADDP, C/C: i, 3/6 2

Ten'

SCOTING

t4 t

15 1

•$1

TECHIERN

Buice

FEB 27 22157 63

ROUTINE

"EX! IUSO DIR CITS BUEN POTS

DESERTED

REF: HABH-TTES CNOT SENT NEXI)

IN75985

1. RECUEST ADVISE OM AVGILABILITY TICHEORN FOR VISIT BUEN PITHIN

NEXT MONTH. PURPOSE TO MAKE INITIAL CONTACTS AND SURVEY LOCAL ISSUES,

PERSONALITIES AND POVER ELEMENTS TO BE FACTORS ELECTIONS NOW

SCHEDULED 23 JUNE HAVING IN MIND HIS RETURNING IN LATE MAY

FOR PERICO THROICH FLECTIONS SHOULO DEVELOONENTS INITIAL VISIT

SO WARRANT:

3, EFFORTS BY PETLINGER TO CONTACI IDENTITY HAVE REVEALED

THAT HE NOT ARANBURU CAMPAION MANAGER NOR CURRENTLY DIRECTLY

INVOLVED IN HIS COMPAIGN. THIS MAY WELL. SE TO OUR ADVANTASS

SINCE WE PREFER THAT TICHBORN CONTACT A SROAD RANGE OF POLITICAL

FURTUER BEFORE TIGHBORN CONTACT TO REQUEST HE NOT ADVISE IDENTITY OF

to proposal

END OF HESSAGE

201-253-203

SEEPET

GROUP 1

CATION

---

## Page 121

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

DATE : 27 FEB 63

TO

: DIRECTOR

FROM

: BUENOS AIRES

ACTION:

INFO

: ADDP, C/CA 2, S/C 2

FEB 27 22167 63

TO

MEXI

INFO

KAPOK

REF: BUEN 8970 (IN. 75985)

•IDEN IS JULIO PIACINTINI.

•DIR

ROUTIN E

IN 75975

CITE •

BUEN 89Y1

END OF MESSAGE

201-253203

GROUP, 1

SECRET

CATICH.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE I8 PROHIBITED.

Copy No

---

## Page 122

CLASSICIED MESSAGS 3 MO--

SECRET

DATE: : 5 FEB 63

. TO

:DIRECTOR

FROM : CARACAS

¡ACTION: WH1 8

INFO:

ROUTING

to di surro taive Deilroy.

El Sio 1S:a Gops do indiracos.

R8 FraKis

FEB 5 19347 63

ROUTINE

AN ARI

fP3

"Es:

IN5244

UPON RETURN TICHDORN SEXI, CARA STATION KILL APPECIATE AS

DETAILSD INFO AS

POSSIOLE CM IDENTITIES

DU'S INESSEN CONTACTED;

TECINIQUES DESIRED AND CENSEAL It:

ETC.

iSSAGE

C/S COMMENTS: MC CORMICK INTATED TO CARA

BY "GROUP OF BUSINESSMEN" WHO WANT: -

INSTRUCTIONS

IN POLITICAL ELESTIONSTTECHNIQUES..

5 Jeb.63

g8* 1389a

Fran

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMILBITER.

1381

• GacuNa:

---

## Page 123

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-E-R-E-T

FILE"O.

201 353203

• ROUTING

ATE

2, FEB 63

WL B

TO

• DIRECTOR

FROM

: MEXICO CITY

WH. 8

RE Fling (enor% 0ne):

ACTION:

INFO :

Dratroy.

ni rie this copy as ladicale!

CA 2, C1/OPS, CI/OA, S/C de liens

Marked D

sono required

Bianatire:

FER 2 2307Z 63

ROUTINE

TO

CARA

INFO

SUTR

REF MEXI 3290 (IN 61084)

IDEN OF REF MR MENERY (HANK) LOPEZ.

IN 61083

CITE

MEXT JEST

END OF MESSAGE

COPY

околи 13890

RIE!

110141)

dy:0

201-25-3205

S-E-C-f-L=:P

4.06A60

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN TNE ISSUING OFFICE IS FROMIDITED.

Copy No

Austena

---

## Page 124

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

1021/253343

ROUTING

DATE : ? FEB 53

TO

RECTOR

FROM : ME CO CITY

ACTION: WH 8:

aiming can's feel:

Ri die sals copy as lodirain:

Smud 027T Sini 3e 151a

socie iqui

Surature: -.

FES 2: 2306263

ROUTINE

CARA INFOODIR CITE MEXI 3298.

IN6/084

FYIs MEXI STATION CONTRACT AGENT EDWARD & TICHBORN &IDEN

ARRIVING CARA TUO FEBRUARY FOR FOUR DAY VISIT. HIS BUSINESS PERSONAL

AND NO CONTACT WITH STATION PLANNED.

2. TICHBORN TRAVELING VITH MR CARLOS MCCORYICK, MOGUL OS DEMOCRATIC

NATIONAL COMMITTEE, MCCORMICK INVITED TO CARA BY "GROUP OF BUSINESSMEN*

WHO WANT

INSTRUCTION IN POLITICAL ELECTION TECHNIQUES. MCCORHICK

INSISTED THAT TICHBORN, WHO HANDLED GOIDEAL CAMPAIGN

IN PAPRINE

SPANISH-SPEAKING AREAS, ACCOMPANY HIN ON TRIP.

Stin.

3O: SHOULD ABOVE ACTIVITY NEGATIVELY CROSS HIRES WITH CARA STATION

OPERATIONS, OR SHOULD CARA WISH CONTACT TICHBORN

FOR ANY REASON,

HE STAYING TAMANACO AND WILL RESPOUD TO "FRIEND OF DAVE'S"•

END OF MESSAGE

ROUTING

RID/A?!

RID/I'TS

nas 13890

SECRET

380192A 100. 341-2330933

REPAQDUCTION BY ÓTHER THAIN IME ISSUING OSTICE IS PROMIDITRO

Copy Me.

---

## Page 125

CLASSIFIEL MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

DATE :

28 DEC 62

TO

: DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 8

INFO : C1/0A, S/C 2

as Toders

so st and a bakan

Herbal l

DEC 28 0935Z 62

•ROUTINE

GUA TINTO DIR CITE MEXI: 2939 |N4|50C

REF DIR 49455X

TICHBORN ETA GUAT 2 JANUARY PAN AM §BI. WILL. REGISTER:

BILTMORE HOTEL AND. AWAIT CONTACT PROM "FRIEND OF DAVE"

ве.леі: доні-інʼст

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: * REQUESTED TICHERN BE MADE AVAILABLE

GO TO GUAT AND ASSESS

PUBLIC OPINION ON MAIN POLITICAL PARTIES,

IDENTIAL CANDIDATES, AND TRENDS.

are to cos 101-253203

SECRET

Entertain

REPADOUCTION OY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMIENTED.

copy ia

---

## Page 126

÷ DE6. 52

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

SOMET

FPON : MEXICO CITT.

SETION: BH 8 ¡EN DO NOTIFIED AND CONY SLOTTED AT iSSUE DEC

INFO: CA 2, CI/OPS, CLICA, Sit E

DEC 4 2050: E2

PRIORITY

PEITY SUE CUTE MEXE 274B - IN29417

RET CIR 61115(OUT 85000)%

CIR <1364(00T 85432)

NExT 2426 C1N

12015)

I-LICHECEY REPORTS TWO TELEPHONE CALLE TO HIS MORE FROM ANGRATENA

DURING MIS SESENCE.

PRESUMES CALLS FAO" SUELECT OF REFS ON HIS GIGG

TO CISELSS POSSIBILITY TICHBORN APPROMOMINE CERTAIN AUERICAN COMPANIES

WHO HEVE PREVIOUSLY INDICATED HILZINENESS SUPPONT" SUEJECT REFS

?. WHAT SIGULD'TICHSUNN'S RESPONSE BE SHOULE CALLS CONE TWAGUER:

REVISE SOONEST.

IND OF MESSAGE

C/S COMENT: BRET KAPOX.

12

SINES

Peter sikha

NEPROCLATION BY OTNER THAN THE ISSUITE ENTICE 15 MAGMIBITIO

Cari to

---

## Page 127

"Tor

ORIG:

Uh!: :

EXT

DATE.

JEANNE LINTON: pl:

WHl/2/A

5400

1 DECEMBER 1952 1706

то :

MEXICO CITY

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTiNG

BUENOS AIRES

FROM: DIRECTOR

WH 8

CONF:

INES:

CA 2, CA/PEG, C1/OPS, C1/DA, S/C 2

SIC C54

DEFERRED S

ROUTINE.

TO

PRITY MEXI

REF

INFO

SUEN

CITE DIR

02932

MEX! 2748 (IN 29417)*

1.

IF REF CALLS ARE FROM BICENTER GRIUP, TICHBORN SHOULD

DECLINE ACS AS FUND RAISER, AND IF POSSIBLS SHOULD DISCOURAGE

BICENTER PROM SURD ATTENPT TO RAISE CAMPAIGN FUNDS IN PBPRIME.

REALIZE THIS MAY BE DIFFICULI FOR TICHBORN FANDLE GRACEFULLY.

PEPHAPS TICHBORN COULD PLEAD PREVIOUS BUSINESS CONMITAENTS AS

EXCUSE. IN ANY CASE HQS WILL DEFER TO HIS JUDGMENT RE IMPLEMENTAZION.

2. EQS REASONING RE ABOVE IS THAT FINANCIAL SUPPORT OF

PEPRIME BUSINESS INTERESTS COULD PREJUDICE BICENTER REPUTATION:

AND ELECTION PROSPECTS.

END OF MESSAGE

HE Comment: *Tichborn has received telephone calls from Argentina.

J..C. KING:

CAID

cAr S0

WH/COPS

COOPOINATINO ODIICEOS

5701.253203

NED P. HOLMAN

C/NH/3

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

AUTHENTICITITO

OPPICER

Capy Ato.

---

## Page 128

192

DATE : 28 NOV 62

• DIRECTOR

i5 Flina ictres are)

FROM & GUATEMALA CITY

ia Ci tiersed Vaice. Destroya

•Ni dia lis engy ls indicias

• ACTIN, LA 8

ärar.ch coiy dient do Indien

1.000

INFO: CA Z, CA/PEG, C1/OA, S/C 2 MINiS

Hare riguired

Binate: -

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE? 725320>

SECRET

•ROUTING

NO: 28.11382:62

ROUT LAT

TO

1H 2560%

INTO

LEXI

DIR

REF: MEX! 2665 (IN 24747)°

TICHBORN TRIP IN. JANUARY DESIRED.

GUAT 2620

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: * REQ. ADVISE IF TICHBORN TRIP EARLY JANUARY DESIRED.

201-253203

•SECRET

ROSY 1369 UNDERPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE SUNG OMICE SCHOARI

---

## Page 129

14-00000

-1 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

202223293

• ROUTING

DATE

263

19 NOV 62

N1"

DIRECTOR

".".

R$ Milna (check onc) :

FROM :

GUATEMALA CITY

ONFO:

i No Ca Record Value. Desiray.

ni dia thie cry an indicaia

ACTION: WHO WA NOTIFIED AND COPY SLATTER ALI MENDOUdO NUT

62 0J)

Re Irconna foreck opoiT

6

NOV 19 1907Z 62

PRIORITY

IN 20632

APTITY. DIR INFO PRITY MEXI CITE COAT 2554

IN20252

REF:

DIR. 49455 CauT 99279)

VE BELIEVE AUTHORITATIVE SURVEY PUBLIC CPINION IN CAPITAL,

OTHER TILL CITIES AND MURAL AREAS NOÚLE DE VERY VALUABLE IN

CONNECTION FUTURE POLITICAL ACTICH OPS MERE. WE THEREFORE:

WELCOHE TICHDORN ASSIGNENT IF HE CAPABLE SUCH

SURVEY.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT:

*REQUESTED TICHBORN BE MADE AVAILABLE TO GO TO GUAT AND ASSESS PUBLIC

OPINION ON MAIN POLITICAL PARTIES, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES AND TRENDS.

HE IS AN.

AMERICAN CITIZEN IN MEXICO CITY.

FoRs 1389 a

SECRET

201-253203

PROM

AUTO.

DOUNARADIND

MEEOSGIPIGATION

REPRODUCTION, BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

## Page 130

101-253205.

ORIG :

UNIT :

EXT

DATE :

1750

Juhnil. Fhitten: ja

Cmussexico

j910

16 Hovenber 1962

CLASSIFIED. MESSAGE

SBCRET

POUTING

713762

37 ₴

10:

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

WH 8

MIXICO CITY GUATELALA CITY

i Contine:

INFO :

C7 2, CA/PEG, CA/PRON, CA/O 4, S/C 2

TO

PRTY MEXI

INFO GUAT

CITE DIR

DEFERRED

POUTINE

0UT89299.

49455

1.

REQUEST TICHIORN BE MADE AVAILABLE SOON TO GO TO GUAT

AND ASSESS PUBLIC OPINION ON MAIN POLITICAL PARTIES; PRESIDENTIAL

CANDIDATES, AND TRENDS. IN RECENT GUAT CITY HAYORALTY SSCTION,

AREVALO SUPPORTS, VILLAGRON SHAMER, RAN SURPRISINGLY STRONG SECOND,

EVEN WITHOUT AREVALO'S EXPRESS ENDORSEMENT.

DESIRE CHECK

PARTICULARLY ON SENTINENT OUTSIDE GUAT CITY; EVENTS SHOK THAT

LEFTIST TREND IN THAT CITY DOES NOT PROVE SIMILAR TREND IN CTHER

ARBAS... PI-S ADVISE.

FOR GUAT: TICHBORN IS U.S. CITIZEN LANYER IN MAXI CITY

WHO ALSO FRITER. HAS DONE VALUADLE SURVEY OF OPINION IN SAN

SALVADOR, RECOHHEND TICHORN CONSULT STATION OU ARIVAL IT!

ROUTING

RID/AT

BE

END OF MESSAGS

RID/MIS

BEATAS

RID/FI

WH/3/GUAT

#H/COPS.

R. 1.01

J..C. KING

C/WHD

Mademo

"MSD P: HOLU

COOICINATINO OrDILIES

SECRET

Eschat 53= 8013339

pragradios and

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITEO.

AUTNIMTICATINO

•Copy No.

241-2532031

---

## Page 131

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

055

ROUTINO

DATE

• DIRECTOR

FROM • MEXICO CITY

YC/M TEMPO COPY SLOTTED 0400, 10 OCT) RO

INFO

/ ADDP, 3/CA 2, C/C1, 3/6 2

QT 10 06377 62

• INFO

BUEN

PRIBRITY

IN 36542

CIn MEXI. 21,70

RE DIR 41118 (OUT 85000)

DIS 41364 (OUT 85432)*

... "THORSTRIN ARRIVING NEW YORK 12 OCTOBER.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENTA: *HOS STATED THEY HOFEFULLY AWAITING FAVORAZLE WORD TICHBORN ABLE

TAKE ASSIGNMENT INTERPRETER/ESCORT OFFICER.

S-E-C-R-E-T

MATIE

DECLASSITIGATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 132

11 4-00000

1656

LOVIB P. MAPULI:plyi

UNIT :

HIL/2/UP

EXT :

7957

DATE:

9 OCTOBER 1962

.; MEXICO CITY

FROM, DiRECTOR

CONf:

C/WH 5

INFO:

ADDP, C/CI, SIC 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SE CRK

169n40

LOAS

007 9 22212 02

BUENOS AIREB

10

DEFERRED

POUTINE

DLT85432

OP.IM

MEXI

ROUTINE

C/S COMMENT:

*IDEN (UNIDENTIFIED).COMING.U.S.

41364

KAPOK

IN HOORS AS ESCORT OFFICER NG-28 OCT:

HAS CONSIDERING

QUERTED ANY REASON HE

RET DIR 41118 (OUT 85000)*

• NOT AVAILABLE OR UNABLE UNDERTAKE JOB.

I. HOS HOPEFULLY AWAITING PAVORABLE HORD TICHEORN ABLE TAKE

REY ASSIGNASNT AS IT CONSENSUS GORGER EURE HE MAN FOR JOB,

ASSULIPTION ALL YAVORABLE PLS INSTRUCT TICHBORN:

A: ARRIVE NEW YORK CITY FEE BARLIEST DATE, IT La

c.?...".

POSSIBLE BY 12 OCTOBER.

B. CHECK INTO HOTEL OF CHOICE.

C. PRONE MSTROPOLITAN 8-0469, WASHINGTON, D.C.,

IDENTIFYING SELE TRUE NAME, REPORTING NAME OF HOTEL AND ROOU

IIE STAYING AND ASK THAT THIS INTOTHATION BE RELAYED TO

RECEIPT OF INTO HQS CASE OFFICER WILL PHONE TICHEORN TO

ARRANGE RARLIEST KEETING IN NEW YORK FOR COVER ANP ASSIQNATRTE

LBISFING.)

3. ADVISE.

il Corrent:, *Ref KAPOK

AC/THD

END OF MESSAGE

WE/POB

Relentin

WH/COPS

ODIDINALINO

C

GROUP !

1x7ty108 ta9. 101958Ft

1088814119)

R"B T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUÏNG OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

AUTHENTIOGTIRG

0PF1088

Cogy No.

80/253÷03

---

## Page 133

ORiO :

UNiT ,

EXT

DATE :

Louis

P. MAPOLI:pk

N11/2

7951

1636

€ CC7O-ER 1932

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

FOUTAG

80 21

707

•10 : NISICO CITY

LUKIOS AIRES

SIG CEN

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF: C/WH 5

INFO: ADDP, C/PG, C/CA 2, C/CI, S/C 2

DEFEGRED

ROUTINE

C.R0E000

TO

PRId'Y

MEXI

INFO

BUCH

CITE DIR

41113

КАРОК

IDE. COULIG EXITS CA CNOTICIAL VISIT EINING 1O CEOCZER:

ÁS IDE IS CE GRENT INTERO SO SUGARK IT PLANER IO PROVIDE

INTURPRENOS/ESCORT OFFICER DULING JE DAY VISIT.

2. WiS LONSIDERING TICHNOIN AS ASCORT OFFICER 15-28 COTUEER.

FIE CAELI PRITY AY REASON I, LOS AVE ABLE OR VENELS UNDERTARE

Y. CE AUO0TED TO POSSIGILITY SY

100d. N s08

dis.

+7EN3

10T DE FEVILLEN TIERDONS UNNEL ANSICOIN FIRU.

mi/s niericol3

C/E/2 "

Maniel

RIFORD T. MERSERT

Astweis

BOLMAN

C/8B/3

1300p;

ваті тодіт • во

: B

C. R

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIGITED. .

AUTHIATICATINO

DEPICTA

CroT No.

#el 14532-03.

---

## Page 134

UNIT

EXT

DATE :

LOUIS

• P. NAPOLI:p's

FH/2

1687

7957

8 OCTOBER 1962

GLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

Day

BUENOS AIRES

то :

HEXICO CITY

FROM:

DIRECTOR

i=: CONF: C/WH 5

INFO: ADDP, C/PG, C/CA 2, C/CI, S/C 2

TO

PRITY

LEXI

INFO.

CURL

КАРОК

REF

"DIR

41118

IDEN

(CUT OUTacOSO

- GENERAL PEDRO ARAMPUBU

**

END OF MESSAGE

CITE DIR

Cable Sec:

*P1g 1111 in numbor of attached cable as rof.

ROUTING

5

i ?,

SIG GEN

DEFERRID

ROUTINE

41119

762

AKL

AC/AHD

HERBER"

PRIPASINO ORAILRO

sherica

C/WH/2

THE COPS

Passetskies

NED P.

HOLMAN

C/WR/3

COOPOINALINO OPTICIES

fortabad t990

бав тавіза a00

R

T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTMRNTICATINO

Copy iia

-

1 a man

---

## Page 135

400000

DATE

ROM

147

: • 13 SEP 62

: DIRECTOR

MEXICO CITY

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE:

SECRET

5!

SEP 13 08402 62

-ADDE: CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PRGO, CA/0 4, CCG 2, S/C 2

ROUTINE

IN 21383

DIR CITE MEXI: 1927

-1.

ÈDWARD.G TICHBORN HAS RECEIVED. INVITATION BE GUEST SPEAKE?

SESSION HARVARD CENTER LATIN AMERICAN STUDIES SEMINAR 17-22 SEPTENER:

UNDERSTAND THIS WILL BE KICK-OFF MEETING YOUNG LATIN POLITICAL LEADERS

PRIOR TWO MONTH OBSERVATION OF AMERICAN ELECTIONS.

2. STATION FEELS TICHBORN ATTENDANCE VALUABLE OPPORTUNITY

CULTIVATE MEXICAN DELEGATES: ALSO WOULD SOLSTER HIS COVER, AND PROVIDS

EXCELLENT CONTACIS FOR FUTURE REQUIRENENTS OTHER COUNTRIES.

3. TICHBORN MUST RESPOND TO INVITATION: IMMEDIATELY. HE WILL

ACCEPT UNLESS HEADQUARTERS ADVISES OTHERUISE PRIOS COB 14: SEPTEMBER.

4. . WILL ADVISE TICHBORN TRAVEL PLANS WHEN FIRM SHOULD HAS WISH

TO CONTACT.

END OF MESSAGE

.:.

201-253703

6900P. 1

SECREI

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Cosy No.

---

## Page 136

DISPATCH I

raseradio.

Melecifie

portrand

17.

#: 191111992

HHH11

159.7.41

1234-202570 7 29u8t 1052

lo sinue do Tichhit to sacliable at eno dire for Serpi travel.

Trize of

nor? trap fire Herds

bott. tor tre station and lor

Pictionai.

(se is currenily hardline

Thich ia so soraitire

bust the

Station scull de reluctent so lio ar. Inierso est-cut).

?.

in the cabo of leo Co FHIlEn, he don of cOurge le released es.

roqueted by Huedguertare for Jrlie.

So strence mii, a previourig nocod,

saris consideratie reraship on tre Siglon'e curror: idit prouter.

PEPLICA

handies 1laate, pach lakes very

jittie

Tia, WeiRD lo, shich takes consider.

Ir: the latter profoet,

Tos irgiaran, » seete titt his princiral serte 891s?

dally. rad

with his

Ststion case

ofticar at loset tire tires a rock;

It would

te extresely diffi-

cols ti soicare bin durias thia dixoeas period jespintely irlor to alectiona

at toe ratical niversity esca jear jusually Sauterter, Cetober),

S176

1n his cruer capidity, is geolve

ao mon load time as

posaibio 18 requeted priór io trava!

requests, An ex araapio.

HURLICE 18

el tadùy Blered ap to deliver icctures

ir lontertay 1r SereEber

of this year.

Palarinau dis;mon sara trorel for Maill sould require a aintmin of thres

709ko, but does not santion the mesible

Erinarily for over readora,

and secondarily dur operationa rentouse.

the Station geela that ary

travel

lasting sore than for reoke toil to

wlast ianseible-to accept.

in apito

of the abuje metrictions in Elation oillo of courpa, reierce Nad.iCH st ary

t1oo for ary period ll feedousntere feela his contribution vill be gracter

elsantano.

3

81l08

CROS FIENCE TO

DATE TAPED

281-253203

DATE DESPATCNLA

senta

19t. 2

11 SoFto 1962

DESPATER ATISDOR A TO PAZUBIA

FMA-1910

2:550.CA:100

---

## Page 137

DISPATCH

9327.29

3E668

TUT

1427544

catipo, da parte s

No are20

E 181, 12

Fiel ast a duber ci puinta las abare so ves? 8o bugla

Falle planaing su

RIO BROTO 10 D8 SALN DESTO SEILI BARRITO,

te redongtand that

Ele Tuason pould mas maior that va un 1193384 ratiar 6h4g

Baliel fos dila tysa of aurvey but va pould lusa ta suss 8aa

2312 CoP

B-27a199 4187

I-30s 219a

boaun1a4g

e tat send

CA:A TIFED

DATE DEIPATCHEO

9Đ Ang 63

3

$ 1 AUG 19S2

GREPAIO SPEGOL ALTO TOURNTER,

300-194 157/0

LES 15eae

Mall

CONSER

Fata

BATE

9007

2-1/3/1010

1024/17133

2- 108-513

GT*AT1 TAN

00/ 393203

-8241

C/30/3

132.

DISPATCH

---

## Page 138

DISPATCH

Darent 1i5a

SECRET

Chief of station, San Salvador

FriOCISSING

! 120E

1201.308 19081283

Chief, HiD

SUS:ICT

ACTION PIQUEED RIPENINGIS

Operatioral/lieadquarters Debriefing of TICHSORN

ACTION REQUIRED: FYE

Herewith

attached. are the original and one copy of

the leadquarters report of the debriofing of Edward TICHBERN

which took place In ERMETAL in early June, 1962. 1e 15

requested that tie original be passed to the local ODACID

chief, after the Station has insured that the report has been

stgrilized to its satisfaction.

END OF DISPATCH

Distribution:

2 - San Salvador

Artachment:

Headquarters report

'CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

INITIAL

OFFICE

WHl/3/CAi

1. DiRER

Torter

Dail.

741-253103

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

8 August 621 D AUG 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL NAD NUMBER

HISS# - 1844

HERTUARTERS I ILE MUCABER

$201-253203

URIGINATING

MAST

Anss cae (CAN)

COORDINATING

EAT

6400

DICENSRAHI

RID/AH 3/CAN

RIS/LIS

FE527S

RID/VI

DESPOT

18°58 deservouria

CATI

CED Rica 707 61 1997

DISPATCH

---

## Page 139

o August 1962

The following Information vas derived iron a transcripo

sion of a tapo nade during a neering with Edward

TICHBORN

In' early June 1962 In Washington, D.C.

The purpose of the

meeting was to debriof TICHUORY concerning his opinions and

experiences gained from.a recent triy

to El Salrador, TICHbORN

spole fron notes for the first pere of his repore (pr 1-0):

and answered spocific nuescions for cha recaindor.

---

## Page 140

TRANSCRIPTION

I mould like to so iuto sevoral of tho things chat l

haro irovlously:

covered in my repore,. Firse of nil,

happy

that the tadlo schools started by pukon's

Group suurod

to have porton off to a very 800ú start.

- There

have

hecH

nbout 100 sets distributed so chat thero no about

now something

like 10,181 students enrolled in 1,000 of tho

radio schools.

le's apparently hod very good succoss. Thoy

pubiiali books char go along miel the radio classes.

As you

probably atll

remenber,

thore was a litcracy campaign thine.

was fashtonod

after the iden that was pronulgated by fathor

Columbis;

Interestins to me

is the fact that the

saloo hole havo rocolved about about no lesters with sussestiong

ANd PIMIBO

and varlous other commontaries.

of the probless.

they are having rlght now is

there

isn't a transmitter foler.

ful enough

got much heyond

the capital.

I undorstand chat

a transmittor is.on route

and

18 would cortainly bo a big

bion.

10.

then..

It seems

Me

that the radlo is probubly the

offoctive woy of getting

out to the sroups

in the out.

lying

aTORS.

There Are

nerspapers to spoak of, and once

YOu

geR.

tho

llsscnors.hockod.on

the radio,

then ot course,

YOU

con

Ho fron .lituracy compatang into varlous othor things

wind.

Incidently, these codlos as you probably

realizo

a priose.

ATO

on n fixed frequency, und the progrom to load by

naned Father Manuel MOLINA SIERRA.

Spentlnd:

about the priost, lt is irteresting to note

that

thoro

apparently been a considerable shift in tho

attitude

of tho Catholic. Church with rospoct to reforus in

San

Salvador.

It would not de surprising to note thur this

is

probably

a Hemisphere-wide, li not a world mide citizude

on:.

the

pure

ef l'opo john, the 23rU.

You mighe even kird of

COTTO INTO

this

eo what is happening in Spain nnd also in

Portugual.

El Salvador,

itself,

the bishop issued a lotter

socceino

back with

the last several months calling for sociol

reforns and for immediate changes within che sucla! etructuro.

-of El salvador.

Ag:1

mentioned

to you earlier; it caused

considermblo

consteruntion with the so-called

ruling 14.

As

a matter

of

fact,

the

ambassador mentioney to me that they

have bean conplaining recently that they have lost the big

chroe pillars: of strength that they hay,

the army.

the Church,

Ancricon Embassy.

As uns predicrable

acotloned this in ay last report, the so-called id and sono of

---

## Page 141

the

vandely people la til Salvador have looked askanco.

for frogress.

Think you will remenber that.

In my last

repure l predlered that no would harn

with respect in many reforms if they ere to be chelle due

con of did from che United states.

kith raspece to the church, I think do aight be a sood

Idea te sive some very detailed study no to how no

to the ker: possible extont, the apparene chans elean hele

church not only in fl Salvador but all over Larin Arerica.

siank chat le might be a thing that no should sir aroun

GODCONO

sit around for a considorable time trvine to analyzo

all the

ins. and

pilgehe dr action la Latin Amorica.

and low me con fie chis into the whole

Now you ush re in our informal chats about tho structure

of these. as

far as the nationalitles of the people involved in

the

hierarchy.

I thine it's in the uprer structure, Sraniards

and

italians;

but in the lower structuros nost of the roople

Bro iron

El salveder

obe froi lustemaln and that their

naturallinellnation

be to jo

with the peeple.

I think

I mentioned in my car

report that very frequently tho

their eariy

15909 (say at 5:00, 0:00 or 7:00 0.6.

would be retonded naturally by the

lon-income crougs): would

ask for social changes

and

reforms.

At thie later lasses, they

would

change

the

atticudes of thoir sermons because of the.

ultierent economic complex or

tho roople attenting church:

le's intoresslig

to

note that tho

Bishon's letter that was

issued with

respect

to reforms dot a very angry reaction fron

the

14.

Now one of the things that I note with respect to tho

gencral politieal atsosphere in

san Salvador Is that thore

seens to be a'considerable confusion among the

peojile.wi.th

rospect to sone

ofithese reforms.

Let's

culo for exanale,

tho minimur selary..

1s one dif tho cornerstoros of totora

by the present ruling JUNTA, and le will bo carried through by

Prosident-eluct RIVERa.

As of richt ron, thore seems to be a

УСТУ

calculated chopalin on the part of business and

on the

Fart

or financiors to confuse the people, and they have done

a good job

I reoonbor talking to many recale

asking

then

candidly.

•hat is this mininúm salary all about?"

Many

or then

told

se the sovornnent has decided that they can bo paid

chly so such and no more. In other words, they have really

con-

verted le Into an luca that this is maxinum:salary.

AlsO

there

hos.boon

i considerable loyiny off of all people in certain

---

## Page 142

- 3-

factories and the rensen being divon, chie.

the

andes it impossible for us to.koop. i

government nob

full stuff, and therefore

we are reducing.

effects on ary

ability

This, of course, could have very serlous

reforms

of the dovernnent to carry through its

with

respoct to minimun wise.

- there are

even

Interesting enough,

people in the lower classes, aho having been

confused by what le means, are vory definitely agninst the

whole luca of pininun mage.

think, hore again, lt is a

necessity for the covernrent either io acquire a newspaper or

to buy a

constderable interest in ore.rf then

and also to do

a job of publicizing and.gctting the message across with

respoct to the ceneral class of Iaborers.

Howcver, I anticipaic

that this difficulty--that the reople,

aro to rood pestelan to at ense lar ithy he econo de poor,

off and blaming le on the government:

respect.to political reforn

in latin Ascrica,

is

rost neaningful en people is nor political liberty,

but

"bread in

the belly."

le have sor to constantly bear in mind

that hon

we, with

cur own criteria

of

in the United States, so into

political liberties here

reallze that sometises the

atin

America ne have sor to

our views

rlaht

to vote und the tight to express

is a reaningless

concept to a jeasons who really is

worried about whether. he sets

it's the

bread

one tortilla or dio tortilias;

of lattn

that Is the biegest political foctor in any part

Amorice..

this

that whorens tho

last

respect

it is

interesting to note

•time

WaS

in ¿i salvador thera

1ot ci ull nhout Fidel Castro

WAS &

that was just kind of spontaneous

and extemporandous on

the

MOTE.

that!

called to.

some several hundred perple.

low-Income

This tiee

11so went through many of the

barrios out in

naryside and talked to a great

number of people, and a

Martinez who

number of them dept mentioning

1934

45,

was the iresi

for about 10 to l2 years back,

Many of them,

spoke rathor nostalgically

particularly, the rider poople

about the tines of Martinez when

thore wore jobs and when the prices here lob

and when even

though

the wages were

dow, you could buy a full neal and could

get compotatively contortable housing.

DE COUTSU.

known that Martinez is one of the worst tyrants

iris

that

had there; and for a long tire the

they havo

thing they remenber is not

the repressive

neasures

that he

enon, noe the nunher of people

chat vero slaughtered under his ordars.

The thing that is

Ichembered nob

ensely is the coct that thore vere

nore johs;

that the prices

were loy, ete.

Ho're por en constantly bear

---

## Page 143

14-00000

• 1.

in

nind

chai the clings that are rostly meaningful to these

groups of roogle is whether they are workins, the grice

structure, arr

use the soneral bare econonic reeds that are

mer liy any governrent.

i want to tall now for a moment about .

she Allanas para Pregresso and some of by Impressions about

how it's doing, not only in fl Salvader, bur in Guatemala and

SOBE

of the other countries that i observed.

line of the most

inediate inpressions that lget is suring the last few ronths

is that the Allanza para Progresso has been terribly over

rublicised.

I think we made a serious mistake in arousing

expectations in latin America that say not be met.

AS

"I know from talking with many of

the reople

there that the expectations they have simply are not within

the reckoning

of what the Unitro Strios. hos planned.

1 even

chink it's unfortunate if we have a slogen, that the Allanza

para Progresso

as a slogan is. open to serious attacks both

humorouslv and

satirically.

• As a matter of fact, already

many reorla even

our frienus are beginning to use the slogan

-by way

of. criticism. I have in

mind

recently, that the Foreign

ainister of lionduras was in Mexico

and in a rublic statement

said, "ne have a lot of alliance but no progress."

And of.

course in the schools in ll salvador, there are all kinds of

turnings about twisting the words around by way of criticism.

Khat I mean

by over publicizing and sloganizing is the

fact that almost all over latin Ameriéo, the nerspapers are

reporting in outpouring of millions and

millions of dollars,

and as you might expect they convert the figures into pesos,

or other local currency whatever you happen to be, so that

-There is

announcement saying that the Alianza para Progresso

has

allocated 10 million

dollars and then they convert that

into 120 million peses; it sounds like an shrul lot of money.

Isredintely people have grandioso ideas about what is going

to be done with all this money when in effect it is only a

request for that kind of morey that has beon dono.

lie have.

basically sreaking, still some proclems

anons Congress as to

ton auch toney is poing to be allocatco..

let me give you a

specitie case

about whatl feel is

an ovet publicizing of

che Alliance's irogram.

In El Salvador there was

an

announce-

rent in the papers that three million dollars had beon ailo-

cared by the

United States Cnvernnent.for she building

of.

schools.

3 million dollars converted into local currency

1's

something like seven

and half million colones.

That's a

bly sun of money down

play in all

the

newsrapers.

these hell it cursed

it sor tremendous

our; what the

Allance had in aind, along with

the Junts,

hag

to bulld

or.a

hundred.saall.cchools. This would be

10o schools worth

around 530.000 a piece..

Hell, one of the model schools,

rishe

nob, is in the precoss

of constructiong in one of the nolg..

borhoods in td salvador.

while 1 was there, there bag

---

## Page 144

- 5 -

onsiderasle snide critirise ho the bress: bi a lot of the

ro;ulation thol this has a roor exantle o!

Progress

spencing.

illiance fer

18 ass a small school; it sas mithin the

desired

$30

,000 budger, bue. l. an chinking

thai pose oi the

people in El Salvador having talled abcut 7,500, 00ª colones,

bOre

expecting palaces to be built.

suidenly you save a very

small school, and it was being criticized by the gress; by the

de large.

The next cay,

the Minister

saying:

But

"ne said be are scing to build schools, cot palaces."

I think. that even this criticiss could have been avoided

had me announced rather that the expenditure of 3 million:

collars or 7.500,000 colones, had we just announced that the

Allience for Progress, in cocperation with the El Sairador.

government; mas goins to build 100 small schools and say so

withour

any more dressing it up, not even montice the abount

of money that las going

to be sient in total because ther

• one could expect nore

than a small school.

•Alsat chink

it

• would have been

better to have the first schools

outside El

Salvador, rossibly in a little toon like Santa Tecala or one

of the other neighboring couns; and then builé the school

right noxt lo the clú school so

that there rould be a sarked

contrast in every way.

You could see it incediately.

there is alrays

Cortainly

land available near sil the old

scheels, and

just destroy

then really to do a public

the old school when you've built the say ondirae

relations job, get statezents

the reachers, from the students,

and,: perliers, hara the cidest

school teacher in the neighborhood lay the cornerstone to the

school.

Really do a rublic relacions too os it en a very

personal basis rather char trying to stager people aith huge

suns of money.

when you can

This is what I mean by calline in huge figures

do a better job and

arouse less eigacrarion.. Then

you have fer expectations,

almost anything

is better;

think if we talk littlo

and set bie, de're soing to ba euch

better off in the long

run.

I think also a very highly overerublicited grour is the

Peace

cor;'s.

Here agair,

I think we're setting

curselvos up

for some

possible difficully.

very good for

consunption here in the

Al of this cublicial in

United States.

the world we're livine in now,

the same klad of iropaganda

gets outside the United States, Mroady there are all kinds

jokes

about the

Pesce Corps.

18s done a terrific job of

püblicizing here

in this country! They set ereat corerage in

---

## Page 145

14-00000

all the bla picture magazines.

In rise there's going to be

a musteal conedy about

the reace Corps.

all this is great

tuff as far as the United states is concerned, bur l's

afraid it is soing to create serious problous abroad. ¡Actually

the actual observablo benefit of the reace Corrs in the

varlous areis will be very rinimal when you consider, for

example, they have about 29 people that will be in the reace

Coip in

San Salvador.

They're not going to be able to rake

much

of

a dent in separate conmunitles, because they are

separated.

As I understand it, from talking to the manager

of

the Peace Corps for the Contral Anericon ares; rost of

these kids will be alcne in the villages they are

going.to,

and whatever they do is not going to

be very observable

as

far

as tho general population is concerned.

UnfortunatelY

one of the things that we haven't yet learned in our thinkin.

about

these under-devaloped countries is the fact that we

do

such naive chines as this: thereris an elderly lady

about 63

ycars of age that has been assigned to one of the snall

villages. in southern El Salvador and her expertise is home.

econonics.

If you lave ever been to ore of

these small

villages and is you have seen that thoy

subsist, and 1 say

subsist,

mercly on a suall supply of beans and maybe onc or

two tortillas; and the difference between the supply of one

or two tortillas is a

very meaningful one.

When you start

calking about balancing the diet and varying the diet and

having

a hore economics expert to teach then this, this gets

pretty ironic.

eastly dronen to calice asey shey him that could

I can

inagine if ! vere

someone in a position of Dr. Jose Rodriguez

PUlz, who was a very left leaning. bean of the School of

Econonics. in El Salvador--if ! really wanted to cede on one

issue and ridicule it; I would talk about this ferson who was

an expert

on hone econonics; balanced dieting; and how many

vogetables you shculd have; what variety of vegetables, how

nuch coitage cheese you should have; and the whole thing in the

balanced diet.

I could murder this whole. thing in very short

time and aake it very ridiculous.

I think these are things that. we've got to think about.

de've got to think about all the possible weaknessos, how this

to antenne are of this coman (sch ten soresta)

it sounds ausolutely

nervelous and this home eccnonics

excert

1s ¿oing down en a little

Latin Anerican country and

tell thea

all

about hone ecenonics;

but from the roint

of view

of the

Latin

Arerican it's sheer

irony and it's susceptible

attack.

---

## Page 146

...

.?:.

*lth respase is your nuestion about the influence

of the Church with

conaunity;

the capesinos in other farts of the

I chink

Latin

that it's probably true all over

America that

the Church

has treat influence on the

thinking of

the

that

in

san

population.

It's

interesting

to noto

salvador and Mexico the real church goers

arê the

women

and not the

that

their

ren, but the ren are very certain

wives go to church

50 that they're their

surrogates and that they tale their children along sith

tlier.

they.

Although. they are not great church goers, i think

are Catholics

and are preatly influenced by the priests.

You asked whether the people in li Salvador are

abaro that

there have been focy shortages in Cuba and that

• the Castro progras

is undergoing serious difficulties and

the anster

to.that is "yes":

As à matter of fact I vas.

interested in

this when 1 talked to various reople, including

cab drivers and boys that shine your shoes, people working

in the nariets, and some of the campesinos.

Ther

15 an

awareness,

certainly in the city, that Castro is having his

difficulties.

One oi the things

that is interesting and,

of course, I think this may be referable to their Church

influence,

is thet the word connunis. per so still has a

serious effect on peonle.

I thini it's one of the chins

they talk about--sccial reforn, etc in the

etc., but, the cag

Cornunist is still a vory. harsh tag

Latin Arerican

mind.

made

I think this is one of the soricus errors Castro

from his point of view mas to declare himself a

Communist and

a Marxist-Lenninist because many people chat

might have gone along

off.

with hin

at.

that moment got triguiened

There is an

araroness that ho is having troubles and

thạt

the

Revolution

hasn't gone along on the way it has.

Also there was a lot of talk

among a certain group of

people tha. I talked with--those were some workers fron a

textile mill,

that there had been an awful lot of killing

that was done by Castro.

Apparently, there had been

pictures

of a

lot of executions in some of the Latin Aaerican.

newsparers;

and this has had an effect on them.

with

resject to the go oreent prosecuting anyone for

violation of the minimum sage law:

As far

as l understand,

it's still in fts infancy.

I think the belief of the

sovernment is thai

if they start to impose any riviations

this might have a serious effect in settine.

the progras

aCrOSS:

But in

this respect,. I'd like

to mentien

the

seventh

day wage

that was passed about a year ago when I

---

## Page 147

was in Spirador apparently is horkine fairly vell.

You'll

recall that this

waS

accepting nich tie Bible that if

anyone terked for six days ithis mas torerablo to tho

campesines) lie was entitled to the serenth day pay. l mas

worried

at the

(Phonetic)

tige and centlored my worries to Choretic

and

also the

sinister of Econonics. who was at

breaklast with us at that time,

that one of the rossible

dangers of any reform is that it is not carried through

intelligently and forcibly.

il is botter not to have a

reform,

not to announce a now idea, not to arnuse expecta

tions,

if there is poing to bo violotion of chose

sxjectations. At.that time it was contennlated that the

army Hould

administer the prosram of the seventh day pay.

Apparcitly shey have changed their mind on that and have

civilian group that is

aiministering the progran; there

has been ne real scandal with respect to violations of

this.

was a littlo fearful that a local army suy could

fer rald off by some of the big plantation owners and thus

be pormitted to do all kinds of

violntions.

Apparently

this has not

happened, and they've boon prolly effectivo

in the administration.

My big objection at thot time has that again the

minimum salary thing was not properly publicized.

Theyi

could have had all kinds

of radis and television programs,

intorvicus

felt

with the campesinos

and risked them what they

ahout this and

actually doing that kind of public

ralations

job which they did not do.

I think this is true

with

all these reforms.

I think that they have got to be

brouglit to the reople thero you sot roaction fron the

people as to the extent of the change, my reform has on their

personal existence.

This again is a matter of attitude,

a matter of rechnique in public relations.

Hell

18 is certainly true that there has boen a

considerable amount of publicity about the Allanza para

Progresso. I was not aware that it was this grecific group

that was pushing the progran of publication.

However.

harking back to a previous statement,

!think that there is

a serious rossibility that over publicizins of the Alianza

billl cause more trouble than we can at present anticipate.

As a matter of fact sore of the problems are already

beginning to arise.

Ihad a long talk with Arbassador

willians on this, and l think we both agreed that me nught

tu soft redal ruch of the talk about the Alianza; and

certainly to stay away fron these enormous figures of

alllions of dollars.

As far as

the people in Latin America

i...

---

## Page 148

14-00000

are concerned they real!! Chind the serlo is golng to

chanje overnight and expece le to change overnight.

When

the.

changes aren't forchcouing, they are going to be very;

entistered

and no may possibly cronte chemies te neod not

have. had.

1 have

in

wind calling with one san; he was a

newspaper

verdor

and.I happened to see a hondline

about:

the

Aliania para Progresso, and this of course dave. no an

opening to talk to hin shout to.

going

I said,

"What is this

to sean to you?"

lie said, "I understand they aro

going

lo five se a net house."

soreone standing close to

his said,:

"what do you rean they're going to

sivo you a

house,"

and chay actually had an argurent

about the thing.

The man selling the newsparers insisting that's what thay

were soing to do--build hir a nes house,

etc.

The other

man sajing that's ull propaganda.

say

this

all

It's all demagogy; they

the tiro

ard nothing

'is

going to occur.

The

chances are very strong that this

will not ser into

a house.

The chances are alnost cruntly strong that he

won't even det un apartuent lecause you cannot possibly

neet the housing shortage in such a place in San Salvador,

where I doubt mero than

10s ot the pecule have adoquate

hygienic dollings.

So here again;

well at least,

this

nousparer verdor. has

gotten

sn

enormously over bloated

notion about nint we're soing to do.

It way bo that in his

particular esse,

he is more anaro

of. she Allanzn and nore

aware of the

willion dollars because he is selling nets-

papors and magazines

and he is

reading about it nil the

time.

Here

agaih I think is one of the dangers with

respect

to

cho

publicity about she Aliania.

I think l mentioned in my report nhout a year ngo it

might be a good lien to set some experis in public relations,

and

that they might be recruitod frou

such places as Moxico

and

Puerto

Rico

either

government

where you have people the have.

worked with

kith

song et

the

agencies,

sose of our embassies, or

public relations firas such as General

Rubicon & Noble advercising

and other very widely-known

public relations groups in Latir America.

!think it

might be a good idea for the coverucert to have soneone

counseling

him and particularly on nny wide shifts of policy

on how

to present it

to the publie.

Ithink it would be

an enormously effective ray in proserting the programs of

the government, and li would be a sond investment they

could

make

at this point... And I don't just sean setting the

---

## Page 149

1-4-00000

SECRET

• 10 •

ordlaary Madison averie decen

liäind to ouche. ic

person

who has had serie

experience dealing nith

thie Latin

Arerican temperanore because any program

has to arise our

of the isyche of she reorio that

are being dealt aith.

Inceldentally, l dld 30o

gone of the picturos and sore

of the coverage that was givon rivera during lls cleceton

caronlin no whoever landlod that.

I chink, das very

affective: and l've surcested to the Arbosendor that ho

mlihe sussest that the samo poogle or person be rotained

to accompony Rivera dnto his josielon

as prosident.

I: chink one of the ley persons with respect to the

left In El Galvador is the Dean

of the School

of Lconomics

whose nare ls J09o Rodriguoz Futz.

He is also the son of

tho prosidont of tie University..

Now first a word

about

cho young sanohe save a lecturo on Mnraise one of the nights

I was there,

and a went to cho.ducture.

The hall was

filled to capacity; there were peoplo scanding'in tho

sen'd

doorways le was

1 anuld estimato thoro were duo or 500 pcoplo

thore.

rather interestine experience because

1TOM

bhat I heard. I had been

le! to believe .that it would

be iind of i rabble rouser

ond that he mould try to instigato

the people into

action.

1e was

vury moving, really;

Acruglly what I saw was--gersonally

a kind of tho manner of

a priest.

His voice tends to trimblent tirsti but as ho

got

• mOre

irvolved, de lost

the

tremor in his volce and

sounded

more

dike'

a very. intense

p'rofossor.. The interesting

thing

HOS

when he

spoke about

the United Santes, it was

MOTO

in symbolic toros;

thore

waS

nothing. of real harsh

rancor cither

1n

h1s

voico, his manner, or in wnal

actually

saying; but

nit

was almost as if ho were

referrine te in

abstraction of tho Untted States. llo

stun'e tako off on the Ambassador porsonally. He just talled

about AneTicar.

antassadors and he

was bitter, less inclined

sarcastic then neroly bitter.

die is a very effoctive

hurian

beint.

note

as i snt there, he novod the audionce

that he had, cantionally. I could

see one of then kind

of swallowin"

and. the tears running voun cyos of the sir.

to tho left of ne.

There: was roally no attent to rabble

rouso as

tho

sựch,

there was no attemit to got the peeple out

as

it

Toward the end he mode a very

Intoresting

statesent-ho said: "re know tlint thore are

changes necessary,

we know that me have sod to free ourselvos

of the ingorialist

jole of the Unisod sentes, and we know

that these chanses have sot to cord through us; no one is

going

to liel; us but ourselves, " but ho says in making chase

---

## Page 150

....

changes come

about, ler us be careful shut le do not ruin

and

that die do not

set hack our program ly taking

¡recipienus. acelon, alchone plan.

sudienty.

it como almost

Jarriny

he said-well perhaps vero net ready

DET

yel.

but

thatever se do, me're dirt to do lt

reasonal!!'

that we don't lose che revolution as such.

I don't

know whether he had'oference to the sace that

maybe

in Cuba the

revolution dld not work because

certainly

he sas very pro castro.

I think shae there was a kind of

noto

of

wariness in his sall, and de is Interestlog.

idea

I suggestod

to the ambossador that it might be a good

for hiu to

set up a meeting sith fulllermo Moscoso

with the older Joso Napoleon Routajuca Ruiz who was the

(rector) of the Unversity, and rossilly ask this younger

fellon, the Dean of tho School of Econontes to come alung

and try in effect to have "oscuso say, "Look, I know you

rrobably disagroe with a lot chat no're doing and you are

very steptical

about the Allanza pora Progrosso; you're

VerY

sioptical about the United States per sc.

Mayhe in

mAny

senses you're

right, warho in the pas? you had renson

to fool

that

thore has been Imperialist

jut he want to

indicato to you

that we have a chance of attitute

and just

give

uS

Chance

cernomist

and

ond I nood your counsel and you're un

want

to know.

I realize

that we may disagree,

but i

wanted to

Feet you anyway,"

I think that there is

a pessibility that a person in his frago of mind and I say

this

only a rossibility and 1t may be very minimal as

a possibilley;

but thore

1e & chance

that we may be able to

recreato

fanC

kind of ti: with hio so that ho ls not ns

bitter

and

hearlng

antagonistic..

I do not think

at loast frou

that

locture, that evening that he is entirely

bovond

the pale;

bear in mind

that there vero. no

Arericans,

there

WaS

no one In the

audience (that. l could

detect

at

Icast)

who were not fron El Salvador Itsell.

realizo

that

there

may be various epinions with rogpoci lo

this,

but

I did

suggost it so the ambassador.

He chought

it might bo a food

ldea and he may very well do that.

Apparently the father,

Jose Rodriguez Ruiz, 5T.

(Napoleon),

is a person who is apsroachable.

do is not as

far to tho

not

left as his son. He is a liberal, but he is

considered a Conmunist.

There 1s, I undersiand, some-

thing in the Embassy ahout him, but apparently it has bees

checked out and it is felt that ho 1s

not a Cornunist.

any ovent, chore has been an invitation extended to him to

come. to. che United States:

think,

as a matter of fact,

ihat

with many

of theso poople that

If thay were

to

Cune

---

## Page 151

14-00000

S2S.2T

•-12.

she t'rites sparre dad alien anco lind of chonce en

ouserve eno United sentes firse Band,

they sould be less

bitzer about lis.

1 chink that they have adorted sone yery

úsenatic noblons shout us; they bollere some of what they

see in the envies; kinds of snatches of neusreels about

the situation in the souther it is a very sincere

Actually, they have a very

distorted

nutton,

and some

distoried

notion.

They really bellove sene of the things

they've.

hourd.

I think if they would sec us first hard

they mighe

feel differently, Just as l think sometimes

when

a lot of these fellons do to Russia or Cuba; they

come back discachanted that it

isn't. what they have been iold

i8 is.

knon that

jiye. ialted to some ruople in lexico

who havo seen Cubn first nund during the Inst ycar ané have

had niceable changes of mind as to what it i5.

It's 0110

Ching to beor all the good things that the leftists say

there and inge buse toe tyrannical atmosphere tolnk

there and observe some of

sire same thing

chine

is truo on the reverso that you can disenchant

peoplo by sending them to Pussia or so Cuba or behind the Iron

Curtain.

JUST NS

sometines you can rub away some of tho

malinpressions, erronecus improssions by sending people to

the Uniteu

states and having thoa live on i campus for

exanple, such as Cacbridgo, Michigar, or any such place where

they. can see first hund that ac're not the oppressors that

they

have been led to bellove for a long timo.

Much of this

is

really lach of cxposure.

Durine the time that 1 was in El Salvador about 10 days

810.

there

arge a serious problen of the departation of

Salvadoraniang fron Honduras; and it was all ovur the news-

pajiers,

and very strong staterents were issued both in che

Editorials and by people over the radio about chasing out.

some

of

tho salvadoronians that had been working in Honduras

Гот. а

long dise.

Apparently there has beon a

rapproachment;

there

HErE

nectings between the foreign miristers and I

think tho

groblem

may bo resolvod.

It's interesting to note that El Salvaior is the most

heavily populited country.

of Central Anerico..

I think they

have a poquiation

of about 120

per square mile, thereas

Hondura; ond Nicaragua have sonething

11ke 15 or 17 per square

nile.

Therefore, you have a very definite problem of

space ond overpopulation in San

Salvador.

Tha

other thing

la troditionally the conie of san salvador aro supposc

so be the hardest workers in Central Anorica.

I remember

that

Antonio Rivera, a vory well-known

attorney in San

Salvador, snid

that the Salvadorans vare referred to as the

---

## Page 152

• 13.

Japanese of Central America because they're the

rough

sorkers.

Also there is a considerable anount of Salvador

enian cajital that is la various industries throughout

Central

America which is an interestiny thine to me.

comparison

in

this

to the Japanese seems to be very appropriate

situation.

I shind that she real focus of trouble, if there is

doing

to bo any, would! be either the Labor undors or i

think

more particularly in the University. My feelings

agout Contral Aerica, generally, is that your revolutions

do not come from the carpesinos or they do not eyen come

fron the lowor classes:

They senerolly are the middle.

capresinos came in afterwards because there was very little

doing. outside of lavana even in the Sierra Madres,

there

was only

Castro with a swall grour of people.

"hen Batista

realiy fell is when ho had so darn auch trouble inside of

Havara. He fled and left becsuse he was having prohlers of

sabotage in ilevana itself and not because Castro was

serlously threatening him from the Sierra Madres, for he

had

actually withdrown about a month before, if you recall.

here

I think with respoct to the situation in Santo Domingo,

again Union Civica Nacional was made up by the intel.

lectuals

and by the middle

classes and not by the cappesinos.

As a mattor of fret, Trujillo has tremendous support and

adulation

among many of the compesinos and his soul basic

political strength was from the low economic groups.

As a

matter of. fact the Secrer Police as recruited fron

the

lover barrios there he

had. the toughest little juveniie

¿clinquents you could imagine as a Secret Police, and this

was a oa! force.

The incoresting thing is that

right

after Trufillo died, the first big mass"necting that his

son had was in tho poorest barrio in Sanco Domingo because

he knew that's whore Trujillo still had basic strengeh..

1 think the

same thing is true in San Salvador.

don't think it vill be the campesinos that will sive you

the trouble; it will be the students; nith respect to the

student situation,

I think they might borrow lead fron pRl's

book in dealing with the studenes.

1 think the government

cuglit to

make a very strong

attempt to for. a liaison

wich

the universitites and

whenever they

get sone

apt pupils

80 tive they

• job la che governeent, to bring thes inco

the various positions bichin the

governaent

and the

thing

with

5a0d

professors, to have them as

economic advisors

---

## Page 153

-14.

whenever tidy can, They're huran beings--one, they'll

flattered and

1. chink

another

thing, they'll need

one

of the things

the boney.

the

that

mighe be lelaful with respect

s0ne.of

struation in the universities is to err and catch

these

80 the

students in the high school level.

I suggested

ambassador

to the

Rotary

a pian chat would he sorething comparablo

Colorado.

Club's scholarshirs that are diven in

1 remember

that when

sch.001.

I was given $10 8 month

I was going through high

by the

Ectary Cluh and i

WIS

given

a sponsor.

used to

we'd

meet hin once a sonth and

have

lunch.

wAS

Irerenber.this very strondly because it

acaningful to me to have this kind of relationship.

l think

ther deny of the businessien in

San Salvador could

get. the

brisht young guys in the high schools the are

actually the guys who beccue the effective leaders in

college..

Get then or the high school

the

level and

becore

fronds with then.

the peorlo

Once they have gotten to know some of

who rare

supposed to be the ogres that they later

talk about,

them; they

and have had sone actual financial helf from

are more art to be

sproachable.

At least the

person who has been their sponsor durirg the sire in high

school.can

approach ther.

borking on

I think we have got io start

Your lenders

this at a stage before they get to the university.

can be spotted, the

peorle who are going to

bo your most efiective in colloges can be spouted in the

trt ah

schools.

i think that is

the time to start bringing

sose of the people in close

the business

contact with the goverrpent, also

conmunity.

this

7talled to the ambassador about

talk

and he suld he felt it was a good ides and was going to

to some of. the

in mind,

reople

about it.

I thirk

that the universities are resily powér seats

r serts in

many of

the latin American countrles.

Lo uccont this. us

We have got them

i startins point and then work with this

and find

out what are

the elements that piccuce the

•Icaders and wher do the leaders first become observable

and try to carch then at the earliest possible time.

think it would aneliorate nuch of the situation with

respect to tho students.

The other thing istill on the

university thing) I've observed. in places that I have

•been 1s

that the newspapers in these universities really

are not newspapers.

rcally truly

1 think the leftist neusporers are

брал.

ineffective as far as appealing to the middle

The same thing with the rightist, you have either

tlin right or the left.

have newspapers

The Catholics, generally speaking.

that are nore costly;

and they are very

dognacic to the right.

Then you have the leftise students

who have puerly printed of poorly.ainecgrarhed.nebsp.rors

to the loft.

i suspect

that. the

who are in tho middle never have

vast nusber of studants

any newspapers and hore,

rigin -

---

## Page 154

14-00000

• 15.

!

chink,

ict.

called cho Daily

Neus; it's an

Anerican neuspajer:

I don't inor who 1s

the cuitor de it, but it is really truly a newspaper and

it's a scod job.

1t is well coired; le is a rewsy

periculend and l thind le could be used as i format for

aany of the nerspayers in some of these Central American

universitics.

In texico I think you would have so have

3 printed netspaper because there are sore resources,

nue a lor can be done with mineographed nonsparers if

they are pade into newspapers.

Xy suggestior would be

that you have actual. news, gossi, colurns in these

neuspapers about who is soing with whon and all that sort

of stuff, have student prograos, have actual news about

lectures tsat are given; and make it about two-thirds

nows and

about only cre-third cuitorial..

Once: you 80t

reople in as

readers then they will read some of your

editorial

riddle

comment.

Also it can beccre the organ to the

because

none

of the middle groups in any of the

universities I

have

ever seen have a neusparer that

speuks

for

them.

I think, for exaunle, and ! mentioned

this.to

Daye.

Phillips and

3i1l Carlson in lexico, that

there

isn't

effective studen? newspaper.at tho

ilniversity

83,000

of Mexico.

This is a place where you have

students and this is the growing middle class,

these

are

the spokesmen.

and i

They don't have a newspaper,

think it might be a soou idea, for example, to

have some kind of symposiue in El Salvador where you

invite prospective editors of student newspapers to

study the

techilques of typography; to study tle ecchniques

of

what wokes a

newspaper reacable.

Actually La quincena

that

15 published in Mexico, for exangle, is obriously

a political tract.

There isn't one single article that

appears

that

doesn't have a political pitch, a very

strong

anti-leftist ritch.

Frankly, it is a boring

newspapor

and

it's

dil

rypographically i, looks very presertable:

ex;ensive project.

Interesting enough in the

third

issue

of it they had a big edicorial raje saying

ATE-

nct

supported by tre Anerican Erbassy.

fe have

sithered

OUT

Olin

Bell, "Me thinkest thou

rrotesteth

ton

A5

loudly,

funds; is certainly true in shat situation.

understand it we

are not really sponsoring cho

newspaper.

but

it has the look of it.

one of those

netsparers have

may ills or anything el this rature.

think

that

when

jou

any

don't have any ads

on you den't have

rarental shere-withall) it is

always

suspected of

being

a pold-for newspaper.

I think ever in these

rittle

nizengraph shoees: we

could

always find people who would

¿ive a nominal sue, say cuen a dollar a ronth, for juse

---

## Page 155

14-00000

1...

-177

• 16.

an ad just so you could

store or ury toods

ung on ad advereising their book

appearance of a

netspaper that le making leg oun to and it is nor just a

pald-for propaganda ploco. 1 chini shore is a great

necd for

these

KInds of newsapers in all of these univer-

sitles. i I would he tickled eo death, as a batter of.

fact,

for l havo a special Interest in this thing.

glve

whatever heli' I can.

I know that the Ambassador...

in: Salvador

is vory intororred Ir this..

ile is. a

forser

пеняторог.

editor, He edired to student newspaper and

of

course

It hie him lamadlately as a good idea.

•diet the boat my pot a are hen the ran reve.

eissed the boat many yoors li this.

even If we

have to edit the nemspapor ourselves, these organs should

bo in the universitles.

---

## Page 156

14-00000

UNT ,

EAT

101/3/0-38

1:00

DATE:

12 Juro 1952

TO , SALVADOR

FROM, • DIRECTOR

CONF:

KH 8

"INFO,

ADDP, PG 2, C1, C1/OPS,: C1/04, S/C 2

TO

SALV

INFO

SALV

REFERENCE:

41428 (IN 48642)

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

Da as emy rind le ledieries

carkad -

TODA

16-253303

41-25

BOUTINO

He tittie

SIG GEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINe

DUT92790

16185

•CITE DIR

ALRASSADOR AWARE TICHBORN AND NULTERIUS: ARE ACGUAINTANCES.

END OF MESSLOB

WII ED YENT:

*Is Ambassaior aware

TIX

Public works Julio

oftentu

s contact with ministor of

ROUTING

RID/EM

RID/LIG

INITIAL

RID/EL

prost hiden

malin

₴ 5.

2011253213

AUTHI

INO

1.

BEIRASINO OPPICES

LSECREI

NO 1399-2 REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. - COEX NO?!

---

## Page 157

016

DATE :

8 JUN 62

DIRECTOR

FROM :

SAN SALVADOR

ACTION:

INFO

bH 8

As 2, Ci, C1/OPS, C1/0A, S/C.2

ADOP

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRETI

ROUTING

JUN 9 02302 52

ROUTINE

• IN 48642

DIR INFO MEXI CITE SALV 4143

RET.

D1R 150S (aut 90198)"

SALV GILO ENOT SENT MEXIS (URIOS)

1, MINDER HAS INTORTED ARMY ATTACHE MATTHEWS RIVERA CANNOT

LEAVE DEFORE 11 JUNE.

Z.' STATION AS YET UNABLE CONFIRN ANY NOLTENIUS TRAVEL PLANS

POR. INMEDIATE FUTURE.

3.

WAS ANSASSADOR AWARE TICHSON CONTACT WITH NOLTENIUS.

END OF MESSAGE

NOLTENIES COMING TO ERMETAL, ADVISE HOS ETA.

*IF PRESIDENT RIVERA AND OR MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS JULIO

TICHBORN PLANNED CONTACT NOCTENIUS

IN ZRNENTAL FOR FURTHER DEVELOPHENT AND POSSIBLE INTRODUETION IO RIVERA.

RICORY

SECRET

ESTATE DIS EXCIALS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FROHIBITED.

201-255703

Coor No.

---

## Page 158

14-00000

201-253-01

1-253203

1917

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

POITER POSS

UNI? .

EXT :

6400

DaTE :

110661963

TO

:

SAN SALVADOR PRIORITY. INFO:

HEXICO CITY

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONf:

WH.8 .

INTO :

FO E, Gi, C1/OFS, C1/01, 3/0 2

TO

PRITY SALV

stater

CITE DIR

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OTT BUT

19n708

15952

I. IF MUSIDENT RIVERA AND OR MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS JULIO

VOLTENIUS COHING TO ZRUTAL, ADVISE RUS ETA.

2. TICION FLANS TU CONTACT NOLTINIUS IN ZIMETAL FOR FURTHOR

DEVALOPMIMI MID LOSSIBLE INTRODUCTION TO RIVERA.

END OF MESSAGE

RI/ANN/

RVER

R

Hiral lester

WH/3/Mexico Al keidemeyer

N1/COPS TX

C/H/3

AUTHENTICATTHDOE

PARINO ORDIGIO

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy No.

241 - 253203

---

## Page 159

•Is, rest.

CONTACT REMIAT

NEMORATIUM: Of Contaut and Consorsation

SUBJSCT:

• Henry Lojos

Dato 5 duna 1$62

1o Mossars Dick ludertiri and Fortor Doss contaclod Subjoot at tho

Shorohan Hotol In room 506.M un 5 dune to dedriof him on his currant travol

19 51 Salvador.

Sub.jeot will. be in Washington until Thursday, 7 Jurio. At

da-

to Subjoct's roquest à further briorine dulll talo place lednesday, 6 June

at 0930 hours with the bonoflt of a tape roosrder. Subjoot belloved that

chiaro was rufficient natorial to varrant a detalled question end anaver type

discuesion and sintod that he preforred this form reportingo

2. During the course of luncheon, at whitch the najority of tie meeting.

nas conducted, tho following itom of interest vore brought out in convorsatt

Most topics. were discussed in pereralitias in view of the arranged formal

briefing soheduled for the following morning with a recordor.

a) subject seals that thorn is a chance for roal stability in the Rivera

sorerricent with the propor support from tho US Govarment.

b) sub joot stated that a slight disparily existod in the dircotion being

inter botween the State Dapt (Ambassador) on the one hand and the COS

tho other. Spacifically, Subject telloved that COS was supporting olemento

too far to the right.

o) The military 19 appamitly a true "third forces and not aligned with

•th No familios, but brokon up into consorvative senior officers and an

emerging noro liberal junior officer corps. Subjoot bellered that thera may

bo a possibility of getting to the campesinos through the liberal alomont

or the military, but not top the li famillos.

d) I families aro broaning isolated and have neither the full suppos

of the church, the milltary, or the governent. The attitude toward the

Elnimin vago rate of the livora fovement seens to be pay one half as sany

tuico as ruch. ", Tho cooperation of the li tunilies is neodod for the econost

261: 253203

---

## Page 160

development of the country, but as of now theis uro all the way Right. As for

Ela sinimum wazo concopt, the campesinor apparently do not grasp le a

meaning.

o) The church 19 not so far light that it supporto

the li fantlien and

¡l 1a tending more towardo the rolativo left.

f) The Allianco for Progress has boon badly handlad, na hayo some of

the astivitlos of the peaco Corps. Subjoct belloves thai. too mich has beon

promood through propagande alroady without corresponding results. Ho bolleve

tho danger of the program falling into ridiculo is groat 11 the US continioi

so proto ony, on continues iti ladly marasad pulluty elay prayiam.

g) Discusulon of the student University papera yiolded Subjoct's opinion

that they are largely Ines ectivo bocaura they doal in polemica rather

than fact and nows itera, and Mortalane because the onest

with too good format are obulously US puppots.

h) Logs conversation about Fidel Castro 16 ordient in public, although

he Fidol novomont 13 etill to ho rockoned with. Rocantly there has been a

stinslated by thi Right

resurience

nos the Martine% - dictator of tha li's i good old daya whon

overybody had a job, thei sentiment iras erey sipissed log some esinpesinad.

3. Subjoct mentioned that ho had both high and low lovel contacts in

El Salvador and had ranagod to got a redding of public opinion and private

bellof. Apparently it 1s a mistake for Rivera to dely the Inauguration

so long aitor the eloction, at which time a favorablo Imago of the col.

Has succossfully kopt before the public, but which 18 now woaring of?.

4. Subjoct proposed the following courses of action in cortain fielde

that woto discussod in nore depth.

c) fadio is the beat means of cornuntcation with the camposinos. Subject

was Impressed with the resulta

of tire operation run by tha Cathollo priest

:In Bolivial using pre-bonned radios. Ho cosidors that a similar oporation

---

## Page 161

would to extrenely valuadio if properly handled.

b) Roconionds trat the li facilies on approacied on a millionairo to

c) That the

son of Rodrigue: ope

ad-eon. lo head of the Sconomics a

lant at the Universlty, bo approached bu loscood ant himself and asked

to cooporato for at least a year's trial baslo. The son is a vory noving

orator, but Marxist orlented, sud stoptical about the succoss of the

11llanco, brot not an inflattry type o waud tea fair contestant in ay issue.

d) That an effective student, youth nowspeper ba developed which

io a nowspapior and not a propagaads sheet, whic appoalo to "he student

body.

•) That he

uso his nowly formod contact, the Ministar of Publio

Nortenius

Works- Jullo 1

- to get an ir.troduction to Rivers when ho 19

Sertet Clams a teres

in washrgton that wouls fioride & Close Contret with Risera.

---

## Page 162

14-00000

DATE

FROM :

ACTION:

INFO:

023

4 JUN 6E

DIRECTOR

MEXICO CITY

WH 8

•CA 2, CA/PRG, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

iso si

241-253203

8X-2325

JUX 5 01527 62

ROUTINE "

IN 45887

DIR. INFO SALV CITE MEXI D977

RES DIR 13809 Cut 83202*

TICHBORN SCHEDULED DEPART MEXI 4 JUNE WITH STOPOVER NYC, TOR

ARRIVAL HOS MORNING OF 5 JUNE. WILL PHONE 5 JUNE PER REF•

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: .

#HOS CONCURS TICHSORN HOS CONSULTATION TO BEGIN APPROX 4 JUNE.

ROUTING

RID/AN

RID/SIS

THITIATI

RID/FI

SECRET

archesidia

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

V.

261-253703

Copy No.

---

## Page 163

1635

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

R

VINIT. :

EXT :

CATE :

TO

Film.

CONF:

INFO :

TO

11/3/012:

0400°.

706- 253203

SOUTING

c5a203

1141

BENE SEGNADOR

CIRECTOR

3=8: 00 Fard 28 lascia

tano inquired

WH 3

Si: 226556}

¿A E, ES/ERi, S/C 2

¡DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT88702

PPITY LENCI

INFO

SALY

CITE DIR

RIF: NETT 3927 (II 12600%

•: HOS. CONCURS PARA 2 RiF.

ADVISE BIA. COTICT IR. FKREST SHIVERS

OR MR. AL ISOSTITIR AT 356 8073 IN ZIMITAL BENEL O8CO AID 1700 HOURS

13809

EUD OF MESSAGE

iH Gratent:

#lerise

bugin ayur

4 Jine.

con sultatloy

to

INITIAL

RIDAES

RID/FI

MOLLIAN

incasio

INO DIPICIE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

AUTMENTICALINO OFFICI

Copy No.

do: 353203

---

## Page 164

201 - 252303

201- 253.003

#OUTING

ON:

271

25 MAY 62

DIRECTOR

MEXICO CITY

W11.8

CA 2, CA/PRE, S/C 2

_ASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECHET

MAY 29 1038Z 62

Bouch Copy LiT 6910 is - ===

ras. Judoxias irbick osti:

None require

Siésalure: -

ROUTINE

IN 42601

DIR INFO SALV CITE MEXI 0927

REFLEXI 0763 (134358) *

TICKBORN RETURNED NEXI 25 MAY AFTER COMPLETING SURVEY SAlV

POLITICAL AND EDUCATIONAL FIELDS AND HOLDING DISCUSSIONS SALV ODACID

CHIEF MID COS. TICHBORN REPORTS SALV SURVEY HIGHLY COMPLEX AND AS

RECONVENDED IN SALV, HE REQUESTS APPROX TWO DAY COSULTATION HQS. TO

PRESENT KIS REPORT, DISCUSS SALV DEVELOPIENTS.

AND DEVISE POSSIBLE

ACTION PROGRAM.

242. FOR SALV HOS: ADVISE CONCURREYCE

TICHSORN HOS CONSULTATION

TO BEGIN APPROX 4 JUNE.

END

MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: *TICHBORN. WOULD ARRIVE SALV 16 MAY.

ROUTING

RID/AN

RID/MiS

INITIAL

213

RID/FI

we 1 1 so bh,es

001-253703

IS 1399

SECRET

Gail? 1

erasgrading did

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 165

10

DISPATCH

Endio bra

FROM

BORs 81311010 11x129 G147

ACINCE REALISED

REFLACCELS

19 b7 2562

ARTEO MUR PAYING

I:DEUINC CAN CE MAGEO

SY CUININTED INO CICA ONRY

43 J053T° 15(277241012

11 Al 152

Do Station lad Don STarO of RITiC°S osaralation 1231

a? Q osloat to thách IT ICK mrated la rolltical @109158:0001vg

0p0s0t16ã0 1500171a5 dleot102s.

do Fertaja Stallon Martole Comeste 00r0 colered by the dontra

as a p001s000r al 100 listlumal Murarily sator 18 daprieule dog Blai

• izatatiora. ore

+6505948 +554507627510 403 17

1B0 1z 00417 205 madgarton rajastleno Hithers, Station Lade

asides sandeo da unins montina 11 la cucutantly bare da sled die, da

My to palled en to trial al ary moro, in ha 10 101ny Siza 1410 d 35

"aally, the strtion fooin cisongly toad Piccong as a pounce

Jaro lo 20:te5 aultad to mea caulerasatso

87 Bay 2800

#06799E83A10

3 т 873

8 • Ріє

d91 a 5,9 7 0 3

t9; ini in tilian

---

## Page 166

14-00000

ASSIFICU MISLAGE

SECRET.

DATE

TO

FROM

ACTION:

INFC....•

317•

12 MAY 62

DIRECTOR

MEXICO CITY

WH. &

CA 2, CA/ PRG, S/C 2

ROUTING

MAY 12 20512 62

ROUTINC

IN 34358

CITE

TO

INFO

SALV

DIR

RE DIR 09174 (OUT 81006)*

TICHBORN WILL ARRIVE 16 MAY VIA PAA AT 1210.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *HOS CONCURRED TICHBORN TDY. SALY TO REAPPRAISE POLIT SIT..

5204253703

• REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

## Page 167

14-00000

COO .

UNit

EXT

DAIE::

C. Duc то3

BIUSMNSICO

S990

8 PMY 1962

1666

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 2:: 2 s3 2u3

SSCRBT

10 , 2AN SALVADOR, MEXIOO OFTE.. ENN.

i: nio tie cocj' dd daciicdiori

PROM, DIRECTOR

Mabisi eCiE flisd dileal ciaid

in ánriedinão (olarà diiad1

CONP...WH.8.

riariid —

_icua ncriria.

ciamiitiios ci

pintwin!

moiitic

INPO..

CA 2, CA/PRG, S/C 2 :

TO

BALY

iNFO

MaXZ

RBPI BALY 4089 (IN 31J60)*

CITE DIR

W9S CHOSCUN LIGHOR MIN MA PE M MINGET

MBXTI PLO ADVISE SALY DATES TICHBOIN AVAILABLE,

POUTING

DEPERRED.

ROUTINE

051..

09174

END OP MESZAOB

MNI COMINTI

Ambagandor Nilldons raquoatg Edwerd Os Tlahbora travel Salvados

so reappralod polltical olruation.

ROUTITG :

P.INMLCI

NID/LIS

frs.

C. KING

CAHD

WH/3/CAN.

WE/FO/B

. Wh COPB

20

OOIOINATINO OMPICI

SECB8T

WH/B0/B

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED..

laisientSeinne

P.

HOLPAYY.

cww/3

AUTMENTIÇA

INO OPPICIA

Copr Noi

901 - 253203

---

## Page 168

c\S

DARE 220 M38 62

TO

; CIRECTOR

FROM.

: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WAS

INFO

CEG CEG2, S/C?

CLASSIFIEO MENSIGE

SE870/

TENDORN

ROUTING

Ateci

NIS 30 04472 62

ROUTINE

IN 11122

DIR INFO RIOD CITE MEXI 94.14

ALSWOOP

RETI RIOD 8974 (64 45955) *

FYI: DUE PLANNED PERSONAL BUSINESS TRIP IN LOS ANGELES FROM.

2 THRU 9 APRIL,

LOPEZ AVAILABLE FOR REF TRIP. ANY TIME, THEREAFTER.

IN CONSIDERING COVER POSSIBILITIES FOR REF TRIP, HOS MAY WISH

UTILIZE LEGITIMATE LOPEZ COVER AS LAWYER WHO NOW REPRESHENTING

MEXI-U.S. BUSINESS INTERESTS IN PROMOTING LA

INDUSTRIAL USE NEW

COFFEE BEAN REFINING NACHINE.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S CONVENT: *REQUESTED BACKGROUND CAPASILITIES AND COVER FOR MR LOPEZ.

SEGRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN TO ESUNG OFFICE IS PROHIBITIO

5961-953203:

Copy No

---

## Page 169

14-00000

091G.

UNIT

EXT

DATE

10

FROM,

CONFI

INFO,

TO

FETY RIOD

LET SARISS

8495

27 NARCH 1962

RIO DE JARGITIO

16/3

1.675

BIOCICO CITY

DIRECTOR

Wit 8

CCG 2, CI, C1/OPS, C1/0A, S/C.2

INFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

V. J

• OUT66244

CITE DIR

119 121

DEFEPRED

ROUTINE

PRIORILY

00117

REP RICD 6914 (IS 48285)

1. DANO O. TICHICH (P) IS SUBARE COMRACE AGENT RESTORIT NEXT.

BORN DENVER 1S2O OF ANXICAN PARENTS, ACTIVE SEVERAL YEARS CALIZONIA

STATE POLIVICE MOST RECENTIN DURIG PILINX CAMPAICN AND AS ERESIDONT

SOUNG DEVOCRATS CLUB, HAS MANACER CAMPATONS JAMES ROOSEVELT AID HELEN

CAMARAN DOUGLAS IN RARLE FIFTIRS AND HAS 1958 CANDTUATE FOR CALIFOMIIA

SECRARY & GRADE WHICH CAMPAIGHT HE LOST DESPITE CITING MOFE YOYES. IN

LOS ANGELRS ALLA THAN ANY DERIOCRATIC CANDIDATE FOR ANTY CEKICE II RISTORY.

2. SICHBORT HAS SUCCESSPULIT COMPLETRO VALUAALE POLITICAL, ASSRSSNETIY

ASSIGNANS IN CUDA, EL SALVADOR AND ICUINICAN REFUELIT. IDE IS FEESCHABLE.

INTELLIGERS, SHRAND, AGGANSSTVL AND APPAZARS NO HAVE WELL DEVOLOPED

SECURITY RISE, ER OPERACICNLII WOLVED NEXT SUT RETRALLY AVATARLE POR

SHORE (UP TO TWO VELKS) ASSICIL I ELSEHHERE. DUS COYES AS INCEPENIDERE

LAHTER HITY SUBTISS CLIENTS AND HUT OFICES IN LAS ANUELES AND MEXE AND AB

EMPLOYRE TELEVISIO: YILM PRODUCER MEXI GIVE ILM MOBIUTIY THROUIROVE SPANYSH

COOLOINALINO ORRIES

BEC RET

RETH. LUCTION EY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

201-253÷03

AUIMAMTICATINO OFFICIA

• Lops Nu.

---

## Page 170

EnG:

UNIT :

EXT

JATE

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SBCRBT

ROUTING

DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO:

PAGE THO

TO

INFO

CITE DIR

OEFERRED

ROUTINE

00T66244

00417

AMERICA: BAS UNLABLE DEPRENIS SUCPASITOTTY HES COVER FOR BRAZIL.

30 RIQL SHUTTO DICIDE FRASISTLY USE TICHBORN BRAZIL ATTKR CONSIDET®

FOR SNAZISS

PION OF MICHSONY EVALHARIOY HIS COVER HRICH MEX REQUESTED CARLS RTOI

ISID CE HESSACE

I CONTENT: BET REQUESTED BACHEROID, CAPALIUTIES, COVRE FICHRORI.

WHILIES C

PEalent

SOOPOINANDO DORICERS

hif

SECRET

REiY. DOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

Copy his

---

## Page 171

134-00000

CLÄSSIFIED MESSAGE

529

lATE

112 62

DIRECTOR

1.014

RIO DE JANEIRO.

ICTION, biH & (WH. COPY SLOTTED AT 1815 26 MAR 62}

NFO 3 CCG Z, S/C 2

ROUTING

MAR 85 72197.62

PRIORITY

IN 48985

PRITY DIR INFO FRITY MEXI CITE RIOD 6974

ALSWOOP

REF

DIR 4905 Cut (3745) 0

STATION DUES NOT HAVE KNOWLEDGE CAPABILITIES MR. LOPEZ.

REQLESTED VISIT ON ADVICE MR. LEE SHITH WHO NO LONGER HERE.

IN VIEW SERIOUS SECURITY HAZARDS NOW BECOMING EVIDENT BELIEVE

LOPE? VISIT REQUIRES DETAILED PLANNING.

THEREFORE, REQUEST

CABLE HIS BACKGROUND, CAPABILITIES AND COVER.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S. COMISENT:

VISIT TO BRAZIL..

*RÉQUESTED CABLE DECISION RE MOST EFFECTIVE TIME FOR LOPEZ

2701.25376}

ESPIODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFER IS PROMINITED.

Copy Nir.

---

## Page 172

DISPATCH

POCISSINS

52/637

elai or station, iterleo Elty

FREN

SULLIE

=T.27-N 973010

Teel: 47538851

0 =85 1521153

15.747

SIDETLE

3. In february or ach lot subjects a contract agent (Identity under

sugarate cors) presently based la foilco, uas sent on TI to si salvador to

me a crivata evaluation oi general soclal, econonie and pallilcai conditiona

La tina: evantry. Joon his retara, Subjoct trote a lengthy report stich has

pas abefal as background infonsition ourcorning El Salrador as of early 1901.

On an official visit to Il Salvador. In early Petraary 1962, the Chalef,

arua Sagart, visited Artassidor Willlams... The Aritassador said that ho waa

Blessed sish Subject! s' accomplishsents darine the visit described in faragraph

L, abore, ard requested that sibject agaln tesent to al saliador on Ei.

18 ibe fiTst Görd to roach leadcuarters that the Ambassador had exprossed such

Tha Cos, San salvador is roquested to ascertain what speclile taske

tas Asbassador has in sind for. Subject at this tino.

AND OF DISPATCH

itsakrant:

Histribation:

2 - San Salvador,

w/att as

no ted

2'= Faxico alty, w/att as

noted

" CADES REFERENCE TO

53CPET

WHENCE

1H/3/C1M

DATE TIPED

CATE DISPATCHED

126 Peb 1962

ENd MAR 1962

DISANTON SPACE AND MUMBLI

15S&-1306

HE NORMA TESS FLE NUMBER

201-253203

ORICUNALING

Tring?

Nelson Hot sith

nt, it

COOFUINATING

3239

115.20

Lin

12 23

+57 55753348

Prest

rlie

DISPATCH

AA! i

---

## Page 173

14-00000

carol

TO: WRITE

Hairy L0p91

Focarata cores

attactsan) o 12:101$36

Dated - 26 Telewory 1362

ET

---

## Page 174

4400000

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (005.0n0")

FROM:

INTERNAL

INLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIPENTIAL

SECRET

1O:

¡Ontier designalion, rada rusber, and

tuilding)

1.

2.

3.

C/H8/3

- DATE

----

¡COMATOLO

12 FEB 1962

OFFICER'S

iNITIALS

NO.

DAil

9 February: 1952

1o cham.

Please detach sour copy it

Rand

CH

1-3: 1 don't benou

hig he wanto Lopez.

Fittes Tin.

5.

7.

9.

10.

il.

12.

13.

CA/N

hille - file definial and

tone shet is

Sal tumo Chirono

3104

We stored get the

stations to fud out

i a pos i the pope!

FORM

D

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

20/253203

U UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 175

14-10000

SECRET

9 february 1962

MEMORANDUN POR: Chief, WID

SUBJECT:

Request from Ambassados Willians, El Salvador

Is While visiting vith Ambassador Williams and the COS during my.

recent trip to Sen Salvador the Ambassador mentioned the good work done

by Mr. Feary loper whom the Agency had sent to l Salvador for TDX:

2. The Ambassador was so pleased with the accompliahmente of

Mr. Lopez tost he asked me to convey to you his destre that Mr. Lopes:

by sent again on ToX.

PAUL F. ARNESON

Chief, HE Support

SECRET

---

## Page 176

DATE

TO

ІкОМ.

597

-31 VAN&

DIRECTOR

ACTION O

WH 8

INFO

CA 2, CA/PRE, S/C 2

LLASDINICU MESSAVE

а11.1.6.

File-TiceBeiN

ROUTING

UN!-

FEB 1 01112 62

ROUTINE

IN 20768

DIR CITE NSXI 2O24 WARE ACTING

her Dir scist Cout 94998)}

DUS PERSONAL COVER BUSINESS COMNITTMENTS AND RELATED SECURITY

ÄSPECTS, TICHSON REPORTS REF TRIP FOR APPROX TVO MONTH PERIOD.

EXTREMELY DIFFICULT ARRANGE. IN ADDITION, TICHBORN, IN ABSENCE

KIKON, NOW HANDLING LILISP C, OTHER RELATED STUDENT OPS WHICH REQUIRE

FREQUENT CONTACTS STA SUCCESTS, 'ITH TICHBORN CONCURRENCE, IS OP

REQUIREMENTS PER RES STILL ABLE BE FULFILLED, TICHBORN COULD ARRANGS

LOCAL ACTIVITIES PERMIT HESK-TEN DAY COLONDIAN VISIT DURING MID FEB

WITH FOLICH-UP WETK-TEN DAY VISIT IN MARCH.

END OF MESSAGE.

C/S CONSENT: *GUERIEO IF SUBU AVAILABLE GO COLOMBIA ASSIST STA

PLANNING CONGRESSIONAL ELECTIONS:

201-253203

. Copy Na

REPRIDUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

