# 104-10065-10386

## Page 1

'104-10065-10386*

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1251

CONF? IP/DP9

78. 0624404

SECRET

12 06 PM "78

INFO: FILE, RF ODPD=D,

¡PAGE

001

TOT: 2718477 APR 7B

FRP:

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

WASHINGT 213077

SECRET

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH 271846Z WASHINGTON 213077

TO:

BRUSSELS:

FROM: E/BNL INFO EURIA, SA/DO/O, DC/EINW

SUBJECT: WNINTEL NIELAIR NIGALE FLEMISH ORDER OF MILITANTS

THE HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS, IN CONNECTION

WITH ITS INVESTIGATIONINTO DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.° HAS

ASKED FOR INFORMATION IN RTACTION FILES ON A NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS

AND ORGANIZATIONS, INCLUDING FLEMISH ORDER OF MILITANTS CULAAMSE

MILITANTENORDE = VMO).

COMMITTEE REQUEST IS NOT LIMITED TO IMMEDIATE

PERIOD SURROUNDING ASSASSINATION, BUT PRESUME ITS INTEREST FOCUSES

ON ASSASSIN'S ESCAPE ROUTE AND SUPPORT HE OBTAINED WHILE IN EUROPE.

WE HAVE NO INFORMATION ON HOW THE UMO CAME TO THE COMMITTEE'S

ATTENTION,

WE NOTE THAT THE ONLY INFORMATION WE HAVE SO FAR DISCOVERED

C. EVEN MENTIONING THE UMO IS THAT CONTAINED IN POSITIVE INTEL (NICALE

SEMI-ANNUAL REVIEWS OF EXTREMIST ACTIVITIES) WE HAVE NOT YET

DREDGED THESE UP FROM LIBRARY IN VIEW NIGALE PROVISION OF THE

MATERIAL.

file

HSCA

WOULD LIKE TO BOTH HONOR COMMITTEE REQUEST AND PRESERVE

( RELATIONSHIP WITH NIGALE, IF POSSIBLE.

THEREFORE, REQUEST YOU

DISCUSS COMMITTEE REQUEST WITH NIGALE MANAGEMENT.

DOES NIGALE HAVE

ANY INFORMATION WHICH INDICATES A CONTACT BETWEEN THE VMO AND

( AMERICANS DURING PERIOD MARCH 1968 TO 1970? WOULD THEY BE WILLING

PROVIDE IT? ALSO WOULD NIGALE PREPARE

REPORT ON UMO FOR PASSAGE TO COMMITTEE?

PLEASE ALSO ASK NIGALE FOR PERMISSION TO PASS TO COMMITTEE VMO

EXCERPTS FROM THE SEMI-ANNUAL REVIEWS, EITHER SOURCED TO NIGALE OR

UNSOURCED IF NIGALE WOULD PREFER. PLEASE STRESS THAT ANY

C. INFORMATION PROVIDED WILL BE CLASSIFIED AND HANDLED AS SENSITIVE.

4.

FILE: 802-913.

EZ IMPDET.»

ORIG:

AC/E/BNL (KRUMVLEDEY 9384)/E/BNL/R (ALTHEA GUY, 9175)8

COORD: SA/DO/0 (MR. GREGG • IN SUBSTANCED, E/BNL/B (HARRIS),

EURIA (LACLAIR); REL: DOPEANW ATHOMPSOND. CL BY 034537.

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

# 06320

---

